Alexander Hamilton
State: New York
Signed Constitution: True
Surviving papers tier: rich
Best public-domain source note: Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online



===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 1) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander01hami/worksofalexander01hami_djvu.txt

I

9^v^

V\0\v\\\\

HAMILTON'S WORKS

VOL. I.

HmiirniL^

THE WORKS

OF

ALEXANDEE HAMILTON;

COMPRISING

HIS COEEESPONDENCE,

AND

HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WKITINGS,

EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST,
CIVIL AND MILITAEY.

PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

BY ORDER OF

THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.

#

EDITED BY

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

AUTHOR OF "THE LIFE OF HAMILTON."

•J ' J .

VOL. I./<^o5jZil"i7j^^ ;•'{') ;V;

NEW-YOEK:

' \\-\\ ...^,- .,-.,.

JOHN F. TROW, PRINTER, 49, 51 & 53 ANN-STREET

M.DCCC.L.

lay 1913

H,p. (Mf . »»*>

Saint Cnniiiutttc nf \\)t Xilirfiri| cf (Dnngrrss.

-»-♦-»-

ON THE PART OF THE SENATE.

JAMES A. PEARCE, of Maryland, Chairman.
JAMES M. MASON, of Virginia.
JEFFERSON DAVIS, of Mississippi.

ON THE PART OF THE HOUSE.

ISAAC E. HOLMES, of South Carolina.
HORACE MANN, of Massachusetts.
ALFRED GILMORE, of Pennsylvania.

Mt. 12.]

COREESPONDENCE

HAMILTON TO EDWARD STEVENS.

St. Croix, Nov. 11, 1769.

Tliis serves to acknowledge the receipt of yours per Capt.
Lowndes, which, was delivered me yesterday. The truth of
Captains Lightbowen and Lowndes' information is now veri-
fied by the presence of your father and sister, for whose safe
arrival I pray, and that they may convey that satisfaction to
your soul that must naturally flow from the sight of absent
friends in health ; and shall, for news this way, refer you to
them. As to what you say respecting your soon having the
happiness of seeing us all, I wish for an accomphshment of your
hopes, provided they are concomitant with your welfare, other-
wise not ; though I doubt whether I shall be present or not,
for, to confess my weakness, Ned, my ambition is prevalent,
so that I contemn the grovelling condition of a clerk or the
like, to which my fortune condemns me, and would willingly
risk my life, though not my character, to exalt my station.
I am confident, Ned, that my youth excludes me from any hopes
of immediate preferment, nor do I desire it ; but I mean to pre-
pare the way for futurity. I'm no philosopher, you see, and
may justly be said to build castles in the air ; my folly makes
VOL. I. 1

2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 12.

me ashamed, and beg you'll conceal it ; yet, Neddy, we have
seen such schemes successful when the projector is constant. I
shall conclude by saying, I wish there was a war.

P. S. I this moment received yours by William Smith, and
am pleased to see you give such close application to study.

HAMILTON TO TILEMAN CRUGER.

St. Croix, Nov. 16, 1771.

In behalf of Mr. Nicholas Cruger, (who, by reason of a very
ill state of health, went from this to New-York, the 15th ult.,) I
have the pleasure to address you by the long-expected sloop
Thunderbolt, Capt. Wilham Newton, owned by Messrs. Jacob
Walton, John Harris, and Nicholas Cruger, the latter of whom
has written you fully concerning her destination, which I need
not repeat. She has on board besides a parcel of lumber for
youi'self, sundry articles on account of her owners as per in-
closed bill of lading; and when you have disposed of them,
you will please to credit each partner for one third of the
proceeds.

Mr. N. Cruger's proportion of this, and the balance of your
account hitherto, will more than pay for his one third cost of
her first cargo up ; and for the other two, I shall endeavor to
place value in your hands betimes. I only wish for a line from
you to know what will best answer.

Eeports here represent matters in a very disagTeeable light,
with regard to the Guarda Costas, which are said to swarm upon
the coast ; but as you will be the best judge of what danger
there might be, all is submitted to your prudent direction.

Capt. Newton must arm with you, as he could not so con-
veniently do it here. Give me leave to hint to you that you
cannot be too particular in your instructions to him. I think he
seems to want exj)erience in such voyages. Messrs. Walton and

^T. 14.] CORRESPONDENCE. 3

Jolin H. Cruger are to furnisli you themselves with tlieir re-
spective proportion of the cost of the several cargoes.

The staves on board, if by any means convenient, I beg may
be returned by the sloop, they will command a good price here,
and I suppose little or nothing with you ; could they be got at
I would not send them down, but they are stowed promiscuously
among other things.

If convenient, please to deliver the hogsheads, now con-
taining the Indian meal, to the captain as water casks, and
others should he want them. I supplied him with twenty here.
I must beg your reference to Mr. Cruger's last letter of the 2d
ult. for other particulars.

Our crop will be very early, so that the utmost dispatch is
necessary to import three cargoes of mules in due time.

TO CAPTAIN WILLIAM NEWTON.

St. Croix, Nov. 16, 1771.

Herewith I give you all your dispatches, and desire you will
proceed immediately to Curracoa. You are to deliver your
cargo there to Tileman Cruger, Esq., agreeably to your bill of
lading, whose directions you must follow in every respect con-
cerning the disposal of your vessel after your arrival.

You know it is intended that you shall go from thence to the
main for a load of mules, and I must beg if you do, you'll be very
choice in the quality of your mules, and bring as many as your
vessel can conveniently contain — by all means take in a large
supply of provender. Eemember, you are to make three trips
this season, and unless you are very diligent you will be too late,
as our crops will be early in. Take care to avoid the Guarda
Costas. I place an entire reliance upon the prudence of your
conduct.

HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 19.

NEV7--Y0IIK, AUG-UST §1, 1776.

PAY-BOOK

OF THE

State Company of Artillery,

COMMANDED BT

Alex'r Hamilton.
Specimen of Notes scattered throiighout this Pay-Book.

Rousseau's Emilius.

Smith's History of New- York-

Leonidas.

View of the Universe.

Lex Mercatoria.

Millot's History of France.

Memoirs of the House of Bran-

denburgh.
Review of the characters of the

principal Nations of Europe-
Review of Europe.
History of Prussia.
History of France.
Lassel's Yoyage through Italy.
Robinson's Charles Y.
Present State of Europe.
Grecian History.

Baretti's Travels.

Bacon's Essays.

Philosophical Transactions.

Hobbe's Dialogues.

Plutarch's Morals.

Cicero's do.

Orations — Demosthenes.

Cudworth's Intellectual Sys-
tem.

Entick's History of the late
War.

European Settlements in
America.

Ralt's Dictionary of Trade
and Commerce.

Winn's History of America.

Montaigne's Essays.

The Dutch in the Greenland fishery have from 150 to 200
sail and ten thousand seamen.

It is ordered that in their public prayers they pray that it
would please God to bless the Government — the Lords — the
States and their great and small fisheries.

Hamburgh and Germany has a balance against England —
they furnish her with large quantities of linen.

Mt.19.] correspondence. 5

Trade with France greatly against England.

The trade with Flanders in flivor of England.

A large balance in favor of Norway and Denmark,

Eate of Exchange with the several Nations in 52, viz. :
To Venice, Genoa, Leghorn, Antwerp, Amsterdam, Ham-
bm-gh.

To Paris — Loss, Gain.

Postlethwaite supposes the quantity of cash necessary to
carry on the circulation in a State one third of the rents to the
land proprietors, or one ninth of the whole product of the
lands.

See the articles Cash and Circulation.

Messagers in his Secret Memoirs says, that when he returned
with an account to Lewis XIV. that the Spaniards would not
come into his project for attacking Jamaica, the Monarch was
much chagrined at their refusal, and said, " They were the most
stupid wise people in the world."

The par betwen land and labor is twice the quantity of land
whose product will maintain the laborer. In France one acre
and a half will maintain one. In England three, owing to the
difference in the manner of living.

Aristotle's Politics, chap. 6, definition of money, &c.

The proportion of gold and silver, as settled by Sir Isaac
Newton's proposition, was 1 to 14. It was generally through
Europe 1 to 15. In China I believe it is 1 to 10.

It is estimated that the labor of twenty-five persons, on
an average, will maintain a hundred in all the necessaries of
life.

Postlethwaite, in his time, supposes six millions of people in
England. The ratio of increase has been found by a variety of
observations to be, that 100,000 people augment annually, one

6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 19.

year with another, to . Mr. Kerseboom, agreeing with Dr.

Halley, makes the number of people thirty-five times the num-
ber of births in a year.

Extracts from Demosthenes' Orations.

Pliilippic 1. " As a general marches at the head of his troops,
so ought wise politicians, if I dare use the expression, to march
at the head of affairs ; insomuch that they ought not to wait the
event, to know what measures to take ; but the measures which
they have taken ought to produce the events

" Where attack him ? it will be said. Ah, Athenians — war,
war itself will discover to you his weak sides, if you seek them."

Sublimely simple. Vide Long. c. 16.

Are the limits of the several States and the acts on which
they are founded ascertained, and are our ministers provided
with them ? What intelligence has been given to Congress by
our ministers of the designs, strength by sea and land, actual
interests and views of the different powers in Europe ?

The Government established (by Lycurgus) remained in
vigor about five hundred years, till a thirst of empire tempted
the Spartans to entertain foreign troops, and introduce Persian
gold to maintain them ; then the institutions of Lycurgus fell at
once, and avarice and luxury succeeded.

He (Numa) was a wise prince, and went a great way in civil-
izing the Romans. The chief engine he employed for this pur-
pose was religion, which could alone have sufficient empire over
the minds of a barbarous and warlike people to engage them to
cultivate the arts of peace.

Doctor Halley's Table of Observations exhibiting the pro-
babilities of life ; containing an accoimt of the whole number of
people at Breslau, capital of Silesia, and the number of those of
every age from one to a hundred. [Here follows the Table, with
comments by A. H.

^T. 19.] CORRESPONDENCE. 7'

When the native money is worth more than the par in
foreign, exchange is high ; when worth less it is low.

Portugal trade — Spanish trade — Artificers — Money — Ex-
change— Par of exchange — Balance^ of trade — Manufactures —
Foundry — Coin — Gold — Silver — Naval power — Council of
trade — Fishery.

Money coined in England from the reign of Queen Elizabeth.

Short rule to determine the average interest per annum, for
any sum of money for a given term of years, at a given rate —
discharging annually an equal proportion of the principal. Ex-
ample.

Quere. Would it not be advisable to let all taxes, even
those imposed by the States, be collected by persons of Congres-
sional appointment ; and would it not be advisable to pay the
collectors so much per cent, on the sums collected ?

HAMILTON TO THE PEOVINCIAL CONGRESS OF NEW-YORK.

New-York, May 26, 1776.

Gentlemen :

I take the liberty to request your attention to a few par-
ticulars, which will be of considerable importance to the future
progress of the company under my command : and I shall be
much obliged to you for as speedy a determination concerning
them as you can conveniently give. The most material is
respecting the pay. Our company, by their articles, are to be
subject to the same regulations, and to receive the same pay, as
the Continental Artillery. Hitherto I have conformed to the
standard laid down in the Journal of the Congress, published the
10th May, 1775 ; but I am well informed that, by some later
regulation, the pay of the Artillery has been augmented, and

8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 19.

now stands according to the following rates : Captain, £10. 13. 4.
Captain-Lieutenant, £8. Lieutenants, each, £7. 6. 8. Ser-
geants, £3. 6. 8. Corporals, £3. 1. 4. Bombardiers, £3. 1. 4.
Gunners, £3. Matrosses, £2. 17. 4. Drummers and Fifers, £3.
By comparing these with my pay-rolls, you will discover a con-
siderable diiference ; and I doubt not you will be easily sensible
that such a difference should not exist.

I am not personally interested in having an augmentation
agreeably to the above rates, because my own pay will remain
the same as that it now is : but I make this application on
behalf of the company ; as I am fully convinced such a disad-
vantageous distinction will have a very pernicious effect on the
minds and behavior of the men. They do the same duty with
the other companies, and think themselves entitled to the same
pay. They have been already comparing accounts ; and many
marks of discontent have lately appeared on this score. As to
the circumstance of our being confined to the defence of the
colony, it will have little or no weight ; for there are but few in
the company, who would not as willingly leave the colony on
any necessary expedition, as stay in it : and they will not,
therefore, think it reasonable to have their pay curtailed on such
a consideration. Captain Beauman, I understand, enlists all his
men on the above terms ; and this makes it difficult for me to
get a single recruit : for men will naturally go to those who pay
them best. On this account, I should wish to be immediately
authorized to offer the same pay to all who may incline to enlist.
The next thing I should wish to know, is, whether I must be
allowed any actual expenses that might attend the enlistment of
men, should I send into the country for that purpose. The
expense would not be great ; and it would enable me to com-
plete my company at once, and bring it the sooner into proper
order and discipline.

Also, I should be glad to be informed, if my company is to
be allowed the frock which is given to the other troops as a
bounty ? This frock would be extremely serviceable in summer,
while the men are on fatigue ; and would put it in their power

^T. 19.] CORRESPONDENCE. 9

to save their uniform mucli longer. I am, gentlemen, witli the
greatest respect,

Your most obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton, Captain.

HAMILTON TO THE PROVINCIAL CONGRESS.

July 26, 1776.

Gentlemen :

I am obliged to trouble you, to remove a difficulty wliich
arises respecting the quantity of subsistence which is to be
allowed my men. Inclosed you have the rates of rations, which
is the standard allowance of the whole continental, and even the
provincial, army ; but it seems Mr, Curtenius cannot afford to
supply us with more than his contract stipulates ; which, by
comparison, you will perceive is considerably less than the fore-
mentioned rate.

My men, you are sensible, are, by their articles, entitled to
the same subsistence with the continental troops : and it would
be to them an insupportable discrimination, as well as a breach
of the terms of their enlistment, to give them almost a third less
provisions than the whole army besides receives. I doubt not
you will readily put this matter upon a proper footing.

Hitherto we have drawn our full allowance from Mr, Cur-
tenius ; but he did it upon the supposition that he would have a
farther consideration for the extraordinary supply.

At present, however, he scruples to jDroceed in the same way,
till it can be put upon a more certain foundation. I am, gen-
tlemen,

With the utmost esteem and respect.

Your most ob't and most humble serv't,

A. Hamilton,

Captain of New-York Artillery.

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 19.

HAMILTON TO THE HONORABLE CONVENTION OF NEW- YORK.

New-York, August, 1776.

It is necessary I should inform you that there is at present a
vacancy in my company, arising from the promotion of Lieut.
Johnson to a Captaincy in one of the new Gallies (which com-
mand, however, he has since resigned for a very particular
reason). As Artillery ofl&cers are scarce in proportion to the
call for them, and as mj^ self and my remaining ofiicers sustain
an extraordinary weight of duty on account of the present
vacancy, I shall esteem it a favor, if you will be pleased, as
soon as possible, to make up my deficiency by a new appoint-
ment. It would be productive of much inconvenience should
not the inferior ofiicers succeed in course, and from this consid-
eration I doubt not you will think it proper to advance Mr.
Gilleland and Mr. Bean, and fill up the third lieutenancy with
some other person. I would beg the liberty warmly to recom-
mend to your attention Thomas Thompson — now first Sergeant
in my company — a man highly deserving of notice and prefer-
ment. He has discharged his duty in his present station with
uncommon fidelity, assiduity, and exj^ertness. He is a very
good disciplinarian — possesses the advantage of having seen a
good deal of service in Germany, has a tolerable share of com-
mon sense, and will not disgrace the rank of an officer and gen-
tleman. In a word, I verily believe, he will make an excellent
Lieutenant, and his advancement will be a great encouragement
and benefit to my company in particular, and will be an
animating example to all men of merit to whose knowledge
it comes. Myself and my officers will be much obliged to the
Hon. the Convention to favor us with our commissions with all
convenient speed, as they may be highly requisite under some
circumstances that may possibly hereafter arise.

A. Ha^lilton,

Captain of New- York Artillery.

^T. 19.] CORRESPONDENCE, 11

LT. COL. HAMILTON TO THE PROVINCIAL CONGRESS.

MoRRisTowN, March 6, 1777.

Gentlemen :

It is necessary I sliould inform you of the changes wliicli
have happened in your Company of Artillery, which should
have been done long ago, had I not been prevented by sickness,
from which I am but lately recovered.

General Washington has been pleased to appoint me one of
his Aids-de-Camp. Captain-Lieutenant James Moore, a promis-
ing officer, and who did credit to the State he belonged to, died
about nine weeks ago. Lieutenant James Gilleland, some time
before that, resigned his commission, prompted by domestic
inconveniences, and other motives best known to himself. There
remain now only two of&cers. Lieutenants Bean and Thompson,
and about thirty men. The reason that the number of men is so
reduced, besides death and desertions, was owing to a breach of
orders in Lieutenant Johnson, who iirst began the enlistment of
the company ; and who, instead of engaging them during the
war, according to the intention of the State, engaged them for
the limited term of a twelvemonth. The time of those enlisted
by him has expired ; and for want of powers to re-engage them,
they have mostly entered into other corps.

I have to request you will favor me Avith instructions as to
your future intentions. If you design to retain the company on
the particular establishment of the State, it will be requisite to
complete the number of officers, and make provision to have the
company filled by a new enlistment. In this case, I should beg
leave to recommend to your notice, as far as a Captain-Lieuten-
ancy, Mr. Thompson. Mr. Bean is so incurably addicted to a
certain failing^ that I cannot, in justice, give my opinion in favor
of his preferment. But if you should determine to resign the
company, as I expect you will, considering it as an extraordinary
burthen, without affording any special advantages, the Continent
will readily take it off your hands, so soon as you shall intimate

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 20.

jour design to relinquish it. I doubt not you will see the pro-
priety of speedily deciding on the matter, which the good of the
service requires.

I am, with the sincerest respect, gentlemen,

Your most ob't and most humble servant,

Ale^!. Hamilton".

THE COMMITTEE OF CONVENTION TO HAMILTON".

Kingston, March 17, 1777.

Dear Sir :

We are to inform you, that Eobert E. Livingston is, with us,
a committee appointed by Convention to correspond with you at
Head Quarters. You will give us pleasure in the information
that His Excellency is recovered from the illness which had
seized him the day before Messrs. Cuyler and Taylor left Head
Quarters. Any occurrences in the army which may have hap-
pened, you will please to communicate.

In answer to your letter to the Convention, of the sixth of
March instant, we are to inform you, that it is determined to
permit that company to join the Continental Army, for which
you will take the necessary steps. At the same time, you will
take some notice of the disposition of our guns, which, as you
well know, are all in the Continental service ; and unless some
little attention is paid to them, we may, perhaps, never see them
again.

We are, Sir,

Your most obed't and humble servants,

Gouv. Morris,
Wm. Allison.

GOUVERNEUR morris to HAMILTON".

Kingston, 26 March, 1777.

Sir:

By unavoidable incidents, this letter is delayed beyond the
usual time ; for which I assure you I am extremely sorry. Your

^T. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 13

favor gave great pleasure, as well to the committee as to several
members of the House, who are much pleased with your judi-
X3ious caution, to distinguish between what you sport as your pri-
vate opinions, and the weighty sentiments of the General.

No circumstance could have more contributed to our happi-
ness, than to hear of the General's recovery ; which, believe me,
gave universal joy. Be pleased to make my most respectful
compliments to his lady.

That the enemy are willing to desert, can hardly be doubted ;
and a variety of sufficient reasons may easily be assigned.

Want of success is not among the least considerable : add
also the want of pay, the want of plunder. I think the situation
of the enemy clearly demonstrates the want of political wisdom,
and knowledge of war, at the fountain head. To pass over the
succession of other blunders they committed, from their attempt
on Long Island to their present disposition, their treatment of the
soldiery is a monument of folly. First, to prevent their foreign
mercenaries from deserting, they kept back arrearages of pay.
And secondly, to prevent mutiny, and silence murmurings, they
allowed the plundering of a country they intend to conquer.
Here common sense alone would have informed them, had they
listened to her dictates, that by irritating they would never sub-
due ; and that an indulgence in excesses would relax all disci-
pline. Taught by experience, they begin now to wind up the
cords ; but as it was said of James the First, they are always
either too high or too low. Instead of liberal discipline, they
ask servile obedience. "Would it not be wise to meet this with
taunting insult ? To encourage our men in abuse of them, as
poor slaves, hired without pay, yet not daring to vent a com-
plaint ; and contrast the difterent situations : at the same time
inviting them to come and taste the air of freedom ? The Eng-
lish are the proudest people on earth.

You will hear more of a little expedition against Peekskiil at
Head Quarters than I can tell you. I suppose it is intended as a
diversion ; if so, it is a ridiculous one.

I am, &c.,

GOUV. MOERIS.

Col. Alex. Hamilton.

14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 20.

LIVINGSTON TO HAMILTON.

Kingston, March 29, 1777.

Sir:

We received your favor of tlie — instant, and am obliged
to you not only for your acceptance of a very troublesome chal-
lenge, but for tlie alacrity with which you meet us in the field.
We wish it would aiford you as many laurels, as you are like to
reap elsewhere.

You have heard of the enemy's little excursion to Peekskill ;
we wish it may not encourage them to make a more serious
attempt : may it not be proper to remove the stores to a place of
greater safety ?

We are somewhat alarmed at accounts of the Indians having
left their villages ; from whence many conclude, that they have
hostile intentions : though as they are much in our power, we
cannot be entirely of this opinion.

Your reasons for supposing that the enemy will not proceed
to Philadelphia till the beginning of May seem to be conclusive ;
are you equally well satisfied that they may not open their
campaign by sailing to the northward? You have probably
seen some afiidavits of people who had been to New- York,
which were sent by Convention to his Excellency the General.
As this does not go by our own express, we do not care to risk
any thing more on this subject, which we shall treat more at
large in our next.

Time must shortly prove the truth of Mr. Franklin's conjec-
ture, which derives great credit from the several accounts we
daily receive of the state of Europe. You will oblige us by
communicating any further intelligence you may have received
on this subject ; its importance renders us solicitous about the
event.

I am, Sir, by order,

Your most obed't humble serv't,

KoBERT E. Livingston.

Col. Alexander Hamilton.

.Et. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 15

THE COMMITTEE OF CONVENTION TO HAMILTON.

Kingston, April 2, 1777.

Sir:

We received yours of the 29th ultimo, and are extremely
sorry to hear of your indisposition.

In our last we expressed an apprehension that the enemy
might possibly make Hudson's river their first object ; not only
because they could open their campaign there earlier than they
could go to Pennsylvania (as in one case their army would move
by land, and in the other by water) ; but because, having the
command of the river, by taking the advantage of a southerly
wind, they would have it in their power to run up in a few
hours ; and, by destroying the boats that are along its banks,
render it imjDossible for General Washington's army to cross till
they have marched to Albany ; a thing almost impracticable at
this season of the year, considering the distance, and badness of
the roads. This would enable them, not only to ravage all this
State, but to enter Connecticut on its western side, where the
disaffection of the people will insure them many friends. We
have strained every nerve to prepare for their reception, having
vested a power in Greneral George Clinton to make whatever
draughts he may think necessary from the militia : in conse-
quence of which, every third man is ordered to be drawn from
the southern, and every fifth man from the northern counties.
We are not without ajDprehensions that these heavy draughts
will be dreadfully felt, in the want of the necessary supplies for
the army and inhabitants, which can hardly be raised under
such circumstances in this State : but more remote evils must
yield to the pressures of necessity. We inclose you, by direc-
tion of Convention, some resolutions lately passed, in order to
render the laws against spies, and secret enemies, more effectual.
You will be pleased to deliver them, with our respectful compli-
ments, to His Excellency the General.

We are happy to hear of the arrival of the vessel with arms
from France, as no suj)plies can be more necessary.

16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

We flatter ourselves tliat it will sliortly be in our power to
communicate more important intelligence from that quarter,
"We are, with great respect, Sir,

Your most obedient and bumble servants,

Wm. Allison.
Eob't E. Livingston".
Gouv'r Morris.
Col. Alex. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO A COMMITTEE OF THE PROVINCIAL CONGRESS.

Head Quarters, Morristown, April 5, 1777.

Gentlemen :

Since my last I have bad tbe pleasure of receiving your
reply to my two favors of tbe 29tb ultimo and 2d current. I
am bappy enougb to be able to inform you, tbat my indisposition,
wbicb was tbe occasion of my brevity wben I last wrote, is
now removed.

Tbe opinion I advanced respecting tbe enemy's not moving
iDefore tbe beginning of May, seems to be sbaken, tbougb not
entirely overthrown, by some present appearances. We have
received information tbat tbey are embarking about tbree thou-
sand men on board of transports, which are lying at the Hook,
by way of Staten Island. This, it is conjectured, is with a view
to tbe Delaware ; and the supposition is confirmed, by the cir-
cumstance of a confederacy lately detected at Philadelphia, who,
among other things, were endeavoring, by the temptation of
fifty pounds, to engage persons as pilots up that river. The
extreme difficulties tbey must labor under for want of forage,
and the infinite hazard tbey must run by moving with a small
body of about five thousand men, with an enemy in the rear,
incapable of sparing any considerable body of troops to furm a
post behind, and be an asylum to them in case of accident, —
these circumstances will hardly allow me to think tbey will be

iET.20.] CORRESPONDENCE. IT

daring enougli to make tlie attempt at tliis time. But on the
other hand, as they know we are in a progressive state as to
nmnbers, and other matters of importance, and as they have no
prospect of early reinforcement, and are in a state of uncer-
tainty as to any, from the bustling aspect of European affairs, it
is probable they may conceive a necessity of making a push at
all risks. Perhaps, however, this embarkation is intended for
some other purpose ; to make a diversion, or execute some par-
tisan exploit elsewhere. On the whole, I find it difficult to
believe they are yet ready for any capital operation.

As to your apprehensions of an attempt up the North river,
I imagine you may discard any uneasiness on that score,
although it will be at all times advisable to be on the watch
against such a contingency. It is almost reduced to a certainty,
that the principal views of the enemy, in the ensuing campaign,
will be directed towards the southward, and to Philadelphia more
immediately ; of which idea, the discovery before mentioned,
with respect to pilots, is no inconsiderable confirmation. Phila-
deljihia is an object calculated to strike and attract their atten-
tion. It has all along been the main source of supplies towards
the war ; and the getting it into their possession, would deprive
us of a wheel we could very badly spare, in the great political
and military machine. They are sensible of this, and are equally
sensible, that it contains, in itself, and is surrounded by, a prodi-
gious number of persons attached to them, and inimical to us,
who would lend them all the assistance they could, in the further
prosecution of their designs. It is also a common and well-
grounded rule in war, to strike first and principally, at the capi-
tal towns and cities, in order to the conquest of a country.

I must confess I do not see any object equally interesting to
draw their efforts to the northward. Operations merely for plun-
dering and devastation can never answer their end ; and if they
could, one part of the continent would do nearly as well as an-
other. And as to the notion of forming a junction with the
northern army, and cutting off the communication between the
northern and southern States, I apprehend it will do better in
speculation than in practice. Unless the geography of the coun-

VOL. I. 2

18 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 20.

try is far different from any tiling I can conceive, to effect this
would require a chain of posts, and such a number of men at
each, as would never be practicable or maintainable, but to an
immense army. In their progress, by hanging upon their rear,
and seizing every opportunity of skirmishing, their situation
might be rendered insupportably uneasy.

But for fear of mistake, the General has determined to collect
a considerable body of troops at or about Peekskill, which will
not be drawn off till the intentions of the enemy have acquired
a decisive complexion. These will be ready, according to con-
junctures, either to proceed northerly or southerly, as may be
requisite. Every precaution should be taken to prevent the
boats from being destroyed, by collecting them, at the first move-
ment of the enemy, under cover of one of the forts, or into some
inlet, difficult of access, and easily defensible with a small num-
ber of men. The loss of them would be an irreparable disad-
vantage.

The enemy's attempt upon Peekskill is a demonstration of
the folly of having any quantity of stores at places so near the
water, and so much exposed to a sudden inroad. There should
never be more there than sufficient to answer present demands.
We have lost a good deal in this way at different times, and I
hope experience vnll at last make us wiser.

His Excellency lately had a visit from the Oneida Chief and
five others. He managed them with a good deal of address, and
sent them away perfectly satisfied. He persuaded them to go to
Philadelphia, but they declined it, alleging their impatience to
return, and remove the erroneous opinions of their countrymen,
from the misrepresentations of British emissaries, which they
were apprehensive might draw them into some rash proceedings.
They parted, after having made the most solemn protestations of
friendship and good will. His Excellency has been very busy
all day in dispatching the southern post, which has prevented me
giving him your resolve. It will, no doubt, be very acceptable ;
and it is with pleasure I inform you, that the zeal and abilities of
the New- York Convention hold the first rank in his estimation.

No news from France, save that the Congress have obtained

jet.20.] correspondence. 19

a credit there, for wliicli they can draw bills to the amount of
£100,000 sterling. This will be extremely serviceable in carry-
ing on a trade with the French. The new troops begin to come
in. If we can shortly get any considerable accession of strength,
we may be able to strike some brilliant stroke.
I am, Gentlemen, with the greatest respect,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. We have been some time endeavoring to negotiate a
regular cartel ; but it has been lately broken off, principally on
account of Major General Lee. General Howe will not allow
him to be comj^rehended under the general idea of American
prisoners.

THE COMMITTEE OF CONVENTION TO HAMILTON.

Kingston, 8th April, 1777.

Sir:

Yours of the third came safe to hand this day, and gave us
great pleasure by certifying your health. The smallness of our
numbers will not permit the loss of one useful citizen. It is,
therefore, a determined point, that, sick or well, you are by no
means to die.

At this distance, it is impossible to determine what the enemy
can, or what they cannot, do. But, certainly, if we can bring a
respectable force into the field previous to their movements, it
must be extremely difl&cult for them to advance or retreat. The
latter, indeed, may be assisted by the works they are throw-
ing up.

Their attempt upon the Delaware is far from improbable.
Howe is certainly a stupid fellow : but if he reasons so far, the
taking of Philadelphia would give a splendid sight to their ma-

20 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 20.

ncBuvres in the eyes of Europe. This would be productive of
advantage. The seizing that large city, would also afford him
much benefit in the several ways which you suggest. But would
it not be wise to permit his force to be thus divided, that one
part after another might be cut to pieces ?

Since the affair at Peekskill, their views this way seem to be
less probable. It was, doubtless, unmilitary to warn us of our
danger. They will also soon learn that we are in this quarter, in
a decent posture of defence ; and that may decide their fluctu-
ating councils.

Perhaps, after all, they will find it more convenient to keep
post at Amboy, with an advanced party at Brunswick, secure
New- York, and carry on a kind of naval partisan war, till the
further aid and order of their masters.

You will take care, whenever you write to us matters which
ought not to be seen by all, to direct to one of us only in a sepa-
rate letter : while that which is merely indifferent, comes under
your usual direction. The reason is, that sometimes, when we
do not happen to be immediately in the way, your letters are
opened by the President ; and although no evil consequences
have accrued from this as yet, it is nevertheless proper to guard
against it.

What you say relative to a cartel, reminds us of the case of
Major Edminston, who was taken by General Schuyler at the
same time with Sir John Johnson. This gentleman, as His Ex-
cellency will recollect, was sent into the enemy's quarters, with
a letter to negotiate an exchange for one of three Majors, pris-
oners in their hands. He hath since returned, with a letter from
Howe to General Schuyler, purporting that one of those Majors
shall be exchanged for him, he being permitted to join his regi-
ment in Canada. He was three weeks, or thereabouts, travelling
from New- York to Albany ; of which the Convention being
informed, caused him to be made prisoner, and intend sending
him to Head Quarters. He is well acquainted with the face of
this country, and the disposition of its several inhabitants. He
has sufficient interest with the Indians to accomplish an escape.
Upon the whole (as it will not be prudent to confine him within

JEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 21

this State), it is submitted, wlietlier it would not be proper to
secure him elsewhere until the close of the present campaign ?
We are. Sir,

Your most ob't and humble servants,

EoBT. R. Livingston,

GOUV. MORKIS.

Colonel Hamilton.

LORD STIRLING TO HAMILTON.

Baskenridge, April 12, 1777.

Dear Sir :

The troops under Colonel McClanagan, which I expected at
their quarters between the first and second mountains yesterday,
I find took the route by Pluckamin and lodged there last night.
I sent this morning at daybreak a messenger to bring them into
the Boundbrook Road at Boylans. I understand Col, Spotswood's
regiment is on the march by the same route.

The time of Capt. James Scott's company will expire the
14th. Lieut. Kidgelow and the bulk of the men have behaved
very well ; as they can now be spared, I believe it will be best
that I be furnished with His Excellency's dismission of them by
the day.

I wrote to His Excellency on Thursday last about the ap-
pointment of Wilcocks. If he is approved of I wish you would
get both Mr. "Williams and him in orders, and that you would be
so good as to write him to come to me.

If there be any thing in General Orders within these two or

three days that can relate to the troops here, I should be glad to

have a copy of them.

I am, very sincerely,

Your affectionate humble servt.,

Stirling.
Colonel Hamilton.

22 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

THE COMMITTEE OF COISTENTION TO HAMILTON.

Kingston, 16th April, 1777.
Sir:

We are directed, by Convention, to inclose a Eesolution
passed this day, in addition to that of the first of April, which
we before did ourselves the honor to transmit to His Excellency,
by which we hope to put an effectual stop to any further deser-
tions to the enemy ; as the disaffected have been hitherto greatly
emboldened by their having, for the want of courts, escaped the
punishment they deserved. It frequently happens, that igno-
rant young lads are seduced to enlist with the enemy, and are
taken in their way to them. We have sometimes thought that
such might safely be admitted to enlist in our regiments (which
they are generally inclined to do), as a change of company will
often make an alteration in their sentiments, in which case a
useful number may be preserved to the community. We wish
you to consult the General on this subject, and to favor us with
his opinion, by which we shall regulate our fature conduct
relative to such persons.

We are obliged to you for communicating by Mr. Troop,

an account of the engagement of Sunday, in which we equally

admire the extreme caution of the enemy, and the spirit of that

handful of men by whom they were opposed. The same

bravery will, we hope, j)rove as fortunate, when a fairer occasion

offers for its exertion. We have daily information of plots that

are formed in this State ; and a few days ago apprehended a

Colonel who was raising a regiment for the service of the enemy.

We hope, by a seasonable severity, to prevent this evil from

becoming very extensive.

We are, Sir, &c.

jet.20.] correspondence. 23

HAMILTON TO LIVINGSTOlSr.

Head Quarters, Morristown, April 29, 1777.

Sir:

The inclosed was intended to be sent with the prisoners men-
tioned in the list ; but before this could be conveniently done,
Mr. Sims, one of the Chief Justices of the State, came to this
town, and informed me, that the Governor and Council were
upon the point of adjourning; and that the sending of the
prisoners to them, would only be an embarrassment, without
answering, at present, any valuable purpose. He considered
himself authorized to take the matter under his direction, and
desired a sight of the papers relating to it. After perusing
them, he determined it was best the prisoners should remain
here, until he should receive your further orders on the subject;
and delivered me a letter for you, containing a representation of
their cases, as they appear to him, in order to know your sense,
in what manner they shall be disposed of.

He admits two of them, Woolverton and Silas Howel, to
bail.

In addition to the former, I send you a second list of four
others that have been lately committed to jail. These are high
offenders, and among the number of those who it were to be
wished could have an immediate trial and punishment. Isaac
Ogden, in particular, is one of the most barefaced impudent
fellows that ever came under my observation. He openly
acknowledged himself a subject of the King of Great Britain ;
and flatly refused to give any satisfaction to some questions
that were put to him respecting one Moses Nichols, an emissary
from the enemy ; assigning no other reason for his refusal, than
that he had given his word to be silent,

A spirit of disaffection shows itself with so much boldness and
violence in different parts of this State, that it is the ardent wish
of His Excellency, no delay, which can be avoided, might be
used in making examples of some of the most atrocious offend-

24 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

ers. If sometliing be not speedily done, to strike a terror into
the disaffected, the consequences must be very disagreeable.

Among others, all security to the friends of the American
cause will be destroyed ; and the natural effect of this, will be an
extinction of zeal in seconding and promoting it. Their attach-
ment, if it remain, will be a dead, inactive, useless principle. And
the disaffected, emboldened by impunity, will be encouraged to
proceed to the most dangerous and pernicious lengths.
I have the honor to be, with great res|)ect.

Your Excellency's most ob't servant,

A. Hamilton, A. D. C.
To Gov. Livingston.

HUGH KNOX TO HAMILTON.

St. Croix, April 31, 1777.

My Dear Friend :

A pretty fair opportunity just offering for Philadelphia, I
could not omit acknowledging the receipt of your very circum-
stantial and satisfactory letter of the lith February. The thing
has happened which I wished for. We have been amazed here
by vague, imperfect, and very false accounts of matters from the
Continent : and I always told my friends, that if you survived
the campaign, and had an hour of leisure to write to me, I
expected a more true, circumstantial, and satisfactory account of
matters in your letter, than by all the public papers and private
intelligence we had received here. I have but a moment to
command at present, and have not time to remark upon your
letter. I can only inform you, that it has given high satisfac-
tion to all friends here. We rejoice in your good character and
advancement^ which is, indeed, only the just reward of merit.
May you still live to deserve more and more from the friends of
America, and to justify the choice, and merit the approbation, of
he GEEAT AND GOOD GENEEAL WASHINGTON— a

iET. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE, 25

name wliicli will shine with distinguished lustre in the annals of
history — a name dear to the friends of the Liberties of Man-
kind ! Mark this : You must be the Annalist and Biographer,
as well as the Aide-de-Camp, of General Washington — and the
Historiographer of the AMEEICAN WAK ! I take the liberty
to insist on this. I hope you take minutes and keep a Journal !
If you have not hitherto, I pray do it henceforth. I seriously,
and with all my little influence, urge this upon you. This may
be a new and strange thought to you : but if you survive the
present troubles, / aver — few men will be as well qualified to
write the history of the present glorious struggle. God only
knows how it may terminate. But however that may be, it will
be a most interesting story.

I congratulate you on your recovery from a long and dan-
gerous illness. It is my own case — I am just convalescent, after
the severest attack I ever had in my life. I hope to write you
more at large soon, and remain, with the tender of every kind
and friendly wish,

My dear Sir,

Your affectionate servant,

Hugh Knox.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM DUEE.

Head Quarters, Morristown, 6th May, 1777.

Sir:

The bearer of this is Mr. Malmedi, a French gentleman of
learning, abilities, and experience. I believe he thinks himself
entitled to preferment, and comes to Congress for that purpose.
At the recommendation of General Lee, he was made Brigadier
General by the State of Rhode Island ; and filled the station to
the satisfaction of his employers, as appears by a letter from
Governor Cook, speaking of him in the highest terms of appro-
bation. This has led him to hope that he should be adopted by

26 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 20.

the Continent on an equal footing. But in this he ^\dll, no
doubt, be mistaken, as there are many insuperable objections to
such an event. Among others, it would tend to raise the expec-
tations of the Frenchmen in general, already too high, to a pitch
which it would be impossible to gratify or endure. It might
not, however, be amiss to do whatever propriety would war-
rant to keep him in good humor, as he is a man of sense and
merit. I think policy would justify the advancing him a step
higher than his former Continental rank.

Congress, in the beginning, went upon a very injudicious
plan with respect to Frenchmen. To every adventurer that
came, without even the shadow of credentials, they gave the
rank of Field ofiicers. This circumstance, seconding the aspir-
ing disposition natural to those people, carried the expectations
of those who had really any pretensions to the character of offi.-
cers, to a length that exceeds all the bounds of moderation. As
it was impossible to pursue this impohtic plan, the Congress
have begun to retrench their excessive liberaHty ; and the conse-
quence has been, universal disgust and discontent.

It would, perhaps, be injurious, as the French are much
addicted to national punctilio, to run into the opposite extreme
to that first embraced, and, by that mean, create a general
clamor and dissatisfaction. Policy suggests the propriety of dis-
criminating a few of the most deserving, and endeavoring to
keep them in temper, even by gratifying them beyond what
they can reasonably pretend to. This will enable us to shake off
the despicable part with safety, and to turn a deaf ear to the
exorbitant demands of the many. It will easily be believed in
France that their want of merit occasioned their want of suc-
cess, from the extraordinary marks of favor that have been con-
ferred on others : whereas, the united voice of complaint from
the whole, might make ill impressions in their own country,
which it is not our interest should exist.

We are already greatly embarrassed with the Frenchmen
among us ; and, from the genius of the people, shall continue to
be so. It were to be wished, that our agents in France, instead
of courting them to come out, were instructed to give no encour-

^T.20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 2l

agement but wliere they could not help it ; that is, where appli-
cations were made to them by persons countenanced and sup-
ported by great men, whom it would be impolitic to disoblige.
Be assured, Sir, we shall never be able to satisfy them ; and
they can be of no use to us, at least for some time. Their igno-
rance of our language ; of the disposition of the people ; the
resources and deficiencies of the country ; their own habits and
tempers : all these are disqualifications that put it out of their
power to be of any real service to us. You will consider what
I have said entirely as my own sentiments, and.
Believe me, with great regard. Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
"William Duer, Esq.

GOUVEENEUR MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Kingston, 16th May, 1777.

Sir:

I had the pleasure of your two favors within two days of each
other, and am very happy to find that our form of government
meets with your approbation. That there are faults in it is not
to be wondered at, for it is the work of men, and of men, per-
haps, not the best qualified for such undertakings. I think it
deficient, for the want of vigor in the executive ; unstable, from
the very nature of popular elective governments ; and dilatory,
from the complexity of the legislature.

For the first, I apologize by hinting the spirit which now
reigns in America, suspiciously cautious. For the second,
because unavoidable. For the third, because a simple legisla-
ture soon possesses itself of too much power for the safety of
its subjects. God grant it may work well, for we must live
under it.

I cannot persuade myself that Howe will either go to Phila-
delphia or come hither. In either case, General Washington

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 20-

can liang upon his rear, and place him in tlie light rather of a
fugitive than a conqueror. If he bends his efforts this way, the
Council of Safety, you may depend upon it, will exert them-
selves to make his situation as uneasy as he would wish ; prob-
ably more so. The spirit of the Tories, we have great reason to
beheve, is entirely broken in this State. If it is not, it will soon
be so ; for they shall have a few more executions, than which
nothing can be more efiicacious. I speak from experience : but
then it is necessary to disperse the victims of public justice
throughout different parts of the several States ; for nothing but
ocular demonstration can convince these incredulous beings that
we do really hang them. I wdsh the several States would
follow our example. Pennsylvania, in particular, would ex-
perience many good effects from a vigorous manly executive.
Adieu.

Your most obedient and humble servant,

Grouv. Morris.
Col. Hamilton.

GOUV. MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Kingston, 24th May, 1777.

Dear Sir:

You certainly had no reason to complain of me, for not
informing you of the destruction of the stores at St. John's.
True it is, we had a vague report of such a transaction ; and we
had also an account, from private persons, that the report was
confirmed at Albany : but General Gates has never done us the
honor to make us acquainted with his intelligence upon that
subject ; and therefore I was not really warranted to say any
thing about it. Apropos, I shall lose two beaver hats if our
troops are not in possession of New- York by the first day of
July next. K the enemy exj^ect reinforcements, prudence will
dictate to us to do something offensive as soon as possible.
Would it not be prudent to make several attacks at the same

jet.20.] correspondence. 29

time? For instance, about Hackensack, Bergen, or wherever
else the enemy are in that quarter: upon Brunswick, by
way of Eound Brook, Bonumtown, and from the southward :
upon Fort Independence in Westchester county, or against Har-
leem : and upon Long Island, by throwing over some of the east-
ern troops. If only one should prove successful, it would give
splendor to our arms, and dismay the enemy. But our num-
bers, &c., &c., must govern these things. Howe certainly cannot
mean to come this way, unless he is considerably reinforced.
He will, unless he is to act on the defensive. I hope that our
Generals are very busy fortifying the passes in the Highlands.
I fear we shall destroy many men by it when the weather gi'ows
warm. Much fatigue prevents that attention to cleanliness
which is essential to the health of soldiery. Soldiers should, in
my opinion, be as much exercised in the use of arms, and the
various evolutions, as is necessary to preserve their bodies in a
state of strength and elasticity. The rest of their time may be
usefully employed in the care of their clothes, and collecting
refreshments. I seriously believe, that if two armies of thirty
thousand men each, were to take the field in May, and the one
be employed in building fortifications for three months, which
the other should storm at the expiration of that term ; the odds
would be in favor of the assailants, that the campaign would not
cost them as many as the enemy. But a truce to idle specula-
tion. Be pleased to direct your next letter to Robert R.
Livingston and Christopher Tapin, Esqrs., as I shall not myself
be in the way to receive it. We have no news here but this,
that the tories are much humbled, and will, I believe, be more
so.

Adieu. Yours,

Gouv. MOKRIS.
Col. Hamilton.

30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

Head Quartees, Smith's Clove, July 22, 1777.

Dear Sir :

Your favor of the eighteentli, from Saratoga, readied me
yesterday. Your pronouncing Fort Edward, among the other
forts, indefensible, surj)rises me a little, as it is entirely contrary
to the representations of several gentlemen of judgment, who
have had an opportunity of seeing and considering its situation ;
by whom we have been taught to believe that it would be an
excellent post, at least for checking and retarding Burgoyne's
progress. I agTee with you that our principal strength in the
quarter you are, will be in the forests and natural strength of
the country, and in the want of forage, provisions, carriages, &c.,
in which the enemy may easily be thrown, by taking away what
there are of those articles, which, you observe, have never been
in great abundance.

I am doubtful whether Burgoyne will attempt to penetrate
far, and whether he will not content himself with harassing our
back settlements by parties assisted by the savages, who, it is to
be feared, will pretty generally be tempted, by the enemy's late
successes, to confederate in hostilities against us.

This doubt arises from some appearances that indicate a
southern movement of General Howe's army, which, if it should
really happen, will certainly be a barrier against any further
impressions of Burgoyne ; for it cannot be supposed he would be
rash enough to plunge into the bosom of the country without an
expectation of being met by General Howe. Things must prove
very adverse to us indeed, should he make such an attempt and
not he ruined hy it. I confess, however, that the appearances I
allude to do not carry a full evidence in my mind ; because they
are opposed by others of a contradictory kind ; and because I
cannot conceive upon what princi23le of common sense, or mili-
tary propriety, Howe can be running away from Burgoyne to
the southward.

It is much to be wished he may, even though it should give

^T.20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 31

him tlie possession of Philadelpliia, wliicli by our remoteness
from it, may very well happen. In this case, we may not only,
if we think proper, retaliate, by aiming a stroke at New- York ;
but we may come upon him with the greatest part of our collec-
tive force, to act against that part which is under him. We shall
then be certain that Burgoyne cannot proceed, and that a small
force of continental troops will be suflEicient for that partisan war
which he must carry on the rest of the campaign.

A small force will also be sufficient to garrison the posts in
the Highlands, and prevent any danger there ; so that we shall
be able to bring nearly the whole of the continental army against
Mr. Howe. The advantages of this are obvious. Should he be
satisfied with the splendor of his acquisition, and shut himself Up
in Philadelphia, we can ruin him by confinement. Should he
leave a garrison there, and go forward, we can either fall upon
that or his main body, diminished as it will be by such a measure,
with our whole force. There will, however, be many disagree-
able consequences attending such an event ; amongst which, the
foremost is, the dejneciation of our currency^ which, from the im-
portance in which Philadelphia is held, cannot fail to ensue.

I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

Alex. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO DR. KNOX.

* * * This event [the evacuation of Ticonderoga*], re-
dounds very little to our credit. For if the post was untenable,
or required a larger number of troops to defend it than could be
spared for the purpose, it ought long ago to have been foreseen
and given up. Instead of that, we have kept a large quantity of
cannon in it, and have been heaping up very valuable magazines
of stores and provisions, that, in the critical moment of defence,

* July 5, 1777.

32 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

are abandoned and lost. This affair will be attended with seve-
ral evil consequences ; for besides the loss of our stores, which
we cannot well afford, it opens a new and easy door by which to
penetrate the northern States. It will fix the hitherto fluctuating
disposition of the Indians in that quarter in their favor, and
expose the frontiers of the adjacent country to their depredations.
But though it is a misfortune we have reason to lament, I dare
say it will be regarded with you as much more important than it
really is, and as materially endangering the success of our cause,
which is by no means the case. Our opposition is at this time
too well matured, and has too great stability, to be shaken by an
accident of that kind. While we have a respectable army in the
field, and resources to feed, clothe, and arm them, we are safe.
We have had a force sufficient for the foregoing part of the cam-
paign, to maintain such a superiority over the main army of the
enemy as effectually to hinder them from attaining any of their
purposes. And, to the northward, with the reinforcements sent
up to succor the retreating garrison of Ticonderoga, and the
militia flocking in from New England, I think there is little
doubt we have by this time a force adequate to give Mr. Bur-
goyne a seasonable check. One good effect will result from the
misfortune, which is, that it will stimulate the eastern States to
greater exertions than they might otherwise make.

By our last advices, the enemy were in possession of all the
country between Ticonderoga and Fort George ; and our army,
nearly equal in number to them, were about to take post some-
where between Fort Edward and Saratoga.

The consequences of this northern affair will depend much
upon the part that Howe acts. K he were to co-operate with
Burgoyne, it would demand our utmost efforts to counteract
them. But if he should go towards the southward, all or most
of the advantages of Burgoyne's success %vill be lost. He will
either be obliged to content himself with the possession of Ticon-
deroga, and the dependent fortresses, and with carrying on a
partisan war the rest of the campaign ; or he must precipitate
himself into certain ruin, by attempting to advance into the
country with a very incompetent force.

^T. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 33

Appearances lead us to suppose that Howe is fool enougli to
meditate a southern expedition ; for he has now altered his sta-
tion at Staten Island, mentioned above, and has fallen down to
the Hook. Judging it morally certain that there would be a co-
operation of the two armies, we thought it expedient to march
northerly ; and had accordingly reached within fourteen miles of
New Windsor, the place where we could cross the North Eiver
without danger or interruption. But this new movement of the
enemy's fleet, has induced us to return a few miles, and make a
disposition for marching southerly. We shall, however, be cau-
tious how we proceed on that course, lest nothing more than a
feint is intended, to divert us from the real object.

If they go to the southward in earnest, they must have the
capture of Philadelphia in view ; for there is no other induce-
ment. We shall endeavor to get there in time to oppose them ;
and shall have the principal part of the continental force, and a
large body of spirited militia, many of them, from their services
during the last campaign, pretty well inured to arms, to make
the opposition with. Yet I would not have you to be much
surprised if Philadelphia should fall ; for the enemy will doubt-
less go there with a determination to succeed at all hazard ; and
we shall not be able to prevent them, without risking a general
action, the expediency of which will depend upon circumstances.
If the militia turn out with that zeal we have a right to expect,
from their conduct when the Aemy made their last experiment
in the Jersies, and were supposed to be going to Philadelphia,
we may do it without much inconvenience. If they fall mate-
rially short of it, we shall be obliged to confine ourselves to a
skirmishing opposition, which we cannot expect will be effec-
tual. It may be asked, If, to avoid a general engagement, we
give up objects of the first importance, what is to hinder the
enemy from carrying every important point, and ruining us?
My answer is, that our hopes are not j^laced in any particular
city or spot of ground, but in the preserving a good army, fur-
nished with proper necessaries, to take advantage of favorable
opportunities, and waste and defeat the enemy by piecemeal.
Every new post they take, requires a new division of their
VOL. I, 3

34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

forces, and enables us to strike witli our united force against a
part of theirs : and sucli is their present situation, that another
Trenton affair will amount to a complete victory on our part ; for
they are at too low an ebb to bear another stroke of the kind.
Perhaps, before I may have an opportunity of sending this, facts
will unfold what I am now endeavoring to anticipate by con-
jecture.

You will expect some animadversions on the temper and
views of the French nation. I presume you are nearly as well
acquainted with the assistance they are giving us as I am, both
by their intrigues in foreign courts, and by supplies of every
kind of warlike stores and apparatus.

It does not admit of a doubt that they are interested to wish
us success ; and their conduct plainly shows, they are willing to
give us every aid essential to our preservation. But it is natural
they should desire to do it with as much convenience to them-
selves as they can. I apprehend they are not over fond of
plunging themselves into a war with England if they can avoid
it, and still answer the end they have to pursue : and, indeed,
from the evident reluctance shown on the part of the latter, to
do any thing that may bring about such an event, it becomes
extremely difficult to draw her into it. The conclusion we may
make, is, that France "wdll not wish to force England into a war,
unless she finds our affairs require it absolutely ; and England
will not enter into one, till she is Compelled to do it.

My best respects to all friends ; and I beg you will believe
me to be, with unabated regard.

Dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,
A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

Sept. 18, 1777.
Sir:

If Congress have not left Philadelphia, they ought to do

it immediately without fail ; for the enemy have the means of

^T. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 35

throwing a party this night into the city. I just now passed the
Valley Ford — in doing which a party of the enemy came down
and fired upon us in the boat, by which means I lost my horse —
one man was killed, and another wounded. The boats were
abandoned, and will fall into their hands. I did all I could to
prevent this, but to no purpose.

I have the honor to be.
With much respect,

Sir, your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
To Hon. John Hancock.

TO THE HONORABLE JOHN HANCOCK, PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

September 18, 1777, 9 o'clock at night.

Sir:

I did myself the honor to write you a hasty line this evening,
giving it as my opinion, that the city was no longer a place of
safety for you. I write you again, lest that letter should not
get to hand. The enemy are on the road to Swedes Ford, the
main body about four miles from it. They sent a party this
evening to Daviser's ferry, which fired upon me and some others
in crossing it, killed one man, wounded another, and disabled
my horse.

They came on so suddenly, that one boat was left adrift on
the other side, which will of course fall into their hands ; and,
by the help of that, they will get possession of another, which
was abandoned by those who had the direction of it, and left
afloat, in spite of every thing that I could do to the contrary.
These two boats will convey fifty men across at a time, so that
in a few hours they may throw over a large party, perhaps suf-
ficient to overmatch the militia who may be between them and
the city. This renders the situation of Congress extremely pre-
carious, if they are not on their guard: my apprehensions for
them are great, though it is not improbable they may not be
realized.

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 20.

The most cogent reasons oblige me to join the army this night,
or I should have waited upon you myself. I am in hopes our
army will be up with the enemy before they pass Schuylkill : if
they are, something serious will ensue.

I have the honor to be.

With much respect,

Sir, your most obedient,

A, HAMILTON.

HAMILTON TO THE PEESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

Philadelphia, 22d September, 1777..

Sir:

I left camp last evening, and came to this city to superintend
the collection of blankets and clothing for the army. Mr. Lovell
sends to inform me there is an express going off to Congress ;
and I do myself the honor to communicate a brief state of things
when I left camp. The enemy moved yesterday, from where
they lay opposite to Valley Forge, &c., higher up the river, on
their old scheme of gaining our right. I don't know precisely
where they halted ; but our army was preparing to move up also,
to counteract them.

I am this morning told, they marched about twelve o'clock at
night for that purpose. The general opinion was, that the ene-
my would attempt crossing this day : every appearance justified
the supposition.

We had intelligence that the enemy had, the night before
last, surprised Generals Smallwood and Wayne, and consequently
dispersed them, after a small opposition. The loss, it is said,
was not great: and our troops were re-assembling fast at the
Eed Lion. This seems to have been a bad look out, and is
somewhat disconcerting.

By a letter from General ^fcDougal, received this morning, it
appears he was, on the twentieth, in the morning, at Second
Eiver, just setting out on his march toward Woodbridge. He is

iET. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 37

pressing forward with all possible expedition. The troops were

pretty well refreshed, and in good spirits.

I have, &c.,

A. Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Head Quarters, Philadelphia County, 30th Oct., 1777.

Dear Sir :

It having been judged expedient by the members of a council
of war, held yesterday, that one of the gentlemen of my family
should be sent to General Gates, in order to lay before him the
state of this army, and the situation of the enemy ; and to point
out to him the many happy consequences that will accrue from
an immediate reinforcement being sent from the northern army ;
I have thought it proper to appoint you to that duty, and desire
that you will immediately set out for Albany ; at which place, or
in the neighborhood, I imagine you will find General Gates.

You are so fully acquainted with the principal points on
which you are sent, namely, the state of our army, and the situ-
ation of the enemy, that I shall not enlarge on those heads.
What you are chiefly to attend to, is to point out, in the clearest
and fullest manner, to General Gates, the absolute necessity that
there is for his detaching a very considerable part of the army at
present under his command, to the reinforcement of this ; a mea-
sure that will, in all probability, reduce General Howe to the
same situation in which General Burgoyne now is, should he
attempt to remain in Philadelphia without being able to remove
the obstructions in the Delaware, and open a free communication
with his shipping. The force which the members of the council
of war judge it safe and expedient to draw down at present, are
the three New Hampshire and fifteen Massachusetts regiments,
with Lee's and Jackson's two of the sixteen, additional. But it
is more than probable that General Gates may have detained
part of those troops to the reduction of Ticonderoga, should the

38 HAMILTON'S WQfRKS. [.Ex. 20.

enemy not have evacuated it ; or to tlie garrisoning it. K they
should, in that case the reinforcement will be according to cir-
cumstances ; but, if possible, let it be made up to the same num-
ber out of other corps. If, upon your meeting with General
Gates, you should find that he intends, in consequence of his
success, to employ the troops under his coimnand upon some
expedition, by the prosecution of which the common cause will
be more benefited than by their being sent down to reinforce
this army, it is not my wish to give any interruption to the plan.
But if he should have nothing more in contemplation than those
particular objects which I have mentioned to you, and which it
is unnecessary to commit to paper ; in that case you are to inform
him, that it is my desire that the reinforcements before mentioned,
or such parts of them as can be safely spared, be immediately put
in motion to join the army.

I have understood that General Gates has already detached
Nixon's and Glover's brigades to join General Putnam; and
General Dickinson informs me, Sir Henry Clinton has come
down the river with his whole force : if this be a fact, you are to
desire General Putnam to send the two brigades forward with
the greatest expedition, as there can be no occasion for them
there.

I expect you will meet Colonel Morgan's corps upon their
way down : if you do, let them know how essential their services
are to us ; and desire the Colonel or commanding officer, to has-
ten their march as much as is consistent with the health of the
men after their late fatigues. G. W.

P. S. I ordered the detachment belonging to General Mc-
Dougal's division to come forward. If you meet them, direct
those belonging to Greene's, Angel's, Chandler's, and Duryee's
regiments, not to cross Delaware, but to proceed to Eed Bank.

Mt.20.] correspondence. 39

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

FisHKiLL, Nov. 2, 1777.

Dear Sir :

I lodged last night in the neighborhood of New Windsor.
This morning early I met Colonel Morgan with his corps, about
a mile from it, in march for head quarters. I told him the neces-
sity of making all the dispatch he could, so as not to fatigue his
men too much, which he has promised to do.

I understood from Colonel Morgan, that all the northern
army were marching down on both sides the river, and would,
probably, be to-morrow at New Windsor and this place ; and
that General Putnam had held a council for the general disposi-
tioa of them, in which it was resolved to send you four thousand
men, and to keep the rest on this side the river. I came here in
expectation that matters were in such a train as to enable me to
accomplish my errand without going any further, unless it should
be to hasten the troops that were on their march : but on my
arrival, I learned from Mr. Hughes, an Aid-de-Camp of General
Gates, that the following disposition of the northern army had
taken place.

General Patterson's, Glover's, and Nixon's brigades, and
Colonel Warner's mountain boys, to remain in and about Albany :
barracks building for them. General Poor's brigade, marching
down this side of the river to join General Putnam, will be here
probably to-morrow. General Learned's brigade, Morgan's corps,
Warner's brigade of Massachusetts militia, and some regiments
of New-York militia, on their march on the west side of the
river.

I have directed General Putnam, in your name, to send for-
ward, with all dispatch, to join you, the two continental bri-
gades, and Warner's militia brigade : this last is to serve till the
latter end of this month. Your instructions did not comprehend
any militia : but as there are certain accounts here, that most of
the troops from New- York are gone to reinforce General Howe ;
and as so large a proportion of continental troops have been de-

40 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

tainecl at Albany ; I concluded you would not disapprove of a
measure calculated to strengtlien you, tliough but for a small
time, and have ventured to adopt it on that presumption.

Being informed by General Putnam, that General "Wynds,
with seven hundred Jersey militia, was at King's Ferry, with in-
tention to cross to Peekskill, I prevailed upon him to relinquish
that idea, and send off an immediate order for them to march
towards Eed Bank. It is possible, however, unless your Excel-
lency supports this order by an application from yourself, he
may march his men home, instead of marching them to the place
he has been directed to repair to.

Neither Lee's, Jackson's regiments, nor the detachments be-
longing to General McDougal's division, have yet marched. I
have urged their being sent ; and an order has been dispatched
for their instantly proceeding. Colonel Hughes is pressing some
fresh horses for me. The moment they are ready, I shall recross
the river, in order to fall in with the troops on the other side,
and make all the haste I can to Albany, to get the three brigades
there sent forward.

"Will your Excellency permit me to observe, that I have some
doubts, under present circumstances and appearances, of the pro-
priety of leaving the regiments proposed to be left in this quar-
ter? But if my doubts on this subject were stronger than they
are, I am forbid, by the sense of council, from interfering in the
matter.

General Poor's brigade is just arrived here : they will pro-
ceed to join you with all expedition. So strongly am I im-
pressed with the importance of endeavoring to crush Mr. Howe,
that I am apt to think it would be advisable to draw off all the
continental troops. Had this been determined on. General War-
ner's sixteen hundred militia might have been left here.
I have the honor to be.

With the warmest esteem and respect,
Your Excellency's most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

^T. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 41

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON",

Albany, November, 1777.

Dear Sir :

I arrived here yesterday at noon, and waited upon General
Gates immediately, on tlie business of my mission ; but was sorry
to find that his ideas did not correspond with yours, for drawing
off the number of troops you directed. I used every argument
in my power, to convince him of the propriety of the measure ;
but he was inflexible in the opinion, that two brigades, at least,
of continental troo23S, should remain in and near this place. His
reasons were, that the intelligence of Sir Henry Clinton's having
gone to join Howe, was not sufl&ciently authenticated to put it
out of doubt ; that there was, therefore, a jDOSsibility of his re-
turning up the river, which might expose the finest arsenal in
America (as he calls the one here) to destruction, should this
place be left so bare of troops as I proposed; and that the want
of conveniencies, and the difficulty of the roads, would make it
impossible to remove artillery and stores for a considerable time ;
that the New England States would be left open to the depreda-
tions and ravages of the enemy ; that it Avould put it out of his
power to enterprise any thing against Ticonderoga, which he
thinks might be done in the winter, and which he considers it of
importance to undertake.

The force of these reasons did by no means strike me ; and I
did every thing in my power to show they were unsubstantial :
but all I could effect, was to have one brigade dispatched,* in ad-
dition to those already marched. I found myself infinitely em-
barrassed, and was at a loss how to act. I felt the importance
of strengthening you as much as possible: but, on the other
hand, I found insuperable inconveniences, in acting diametri-
cally opposite to the opinion of a gentleman, whose successes
have raised him to the highest importance. General Gates has
won the entire confidence of the Eastern States. If disposed to
do it, by addressing himself to the prejudices of the people, he
would find no difficulty to render a measure odious, which it

42 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

might be said, witli plausibility enougli to be believed, was cal-
culated to expose tbem to unnecessary dangers, notwitlistanding
tlieir exertions, during tlie campaign, bad given them tbe fullest
title to repose and security. General Grates has influence and inter-
est elsewbere : be migbt use it, if be pleased, to discredit tbe mea-
sure there also. On the whole, it appeared to me dangerous,
to insist on sending more troops from hence, while General Gates
appeared so warmly opposed to it. Should any accident, or in-
convenience, bajDpen in consequence of it, there would be too
fair a pretext for censure : and many people are too well dis-
posed to lay hold of it. At any rate, it might be considered as
using him ill, to take a step so contrary to his judgment, in a
case of this nature. These considerations, and others which I
shall be more explicit in when I have the pleasure of seeing you,
determined me not to insist upon sending either of the other
brigades remaining here. I am afraid what I have done, may
not meet with your approbation, as not being perhaps fully
warranted by your instructions : but I ventured to do what I
thought right, hoping that, at least, the goodness of my intention
will excuse the error of my judgment.

I was induced to this relaxation the more readily, as I had
directed to be sent on, two thousand militia, which were not ex-
pected by you ; and a thousand continental troops out of those
proposed to be left with General Putnam, which I have written
to him, since I found how matters were circumstanced here, to
forward to you with all disj^atch. I did this for several rea-
sons: because your reinforcement would be more exjDcditious
from that place than from this : because two thousand continen-
tal troops at Peekskill will not be wanted in its present circum-
stances ; especially as it was really necessary to have a body of
continental troops at this place, for the security of the valuable
stores here : and I should not, if I had my wish, think it expedi-
ent to draw off more than two of the three brigades now here.
This being the case, one of the ends you proposed to be an-
swered, by leaving the ten regiments with General Putnam, will
be equally answered by the troops here ; I mean that of cover-
ing and fortifying the Eastern States : and one thousand conti-

^T.20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 43

nental troops in addition to tlie militia collected, and that may
be collected, liere, will be sufficient, in tlie Highlands, for cover-
ing the country down that way, and carrying on the works ne-
cessary to be raised for the defence of the river.

The troops gone, and going, to reinforce you, are near five
thousand rank and file, continental troops; and two thousand
five hundred Massachusetts and New Hampshire militia. These
and the seven hundred Jersey militia, will be a larger reinforce-
ment than you expected, though not quite an equal number of
continental troops ; nor exactly in the way directed. General
Lincoln tells me, the militia are very excellent; and though
their time will be out by the last of this month, you will be able,
if you think proper, to order the troops still remaining here, to
join you by the time their term of service expires.

I cannot forbear being uneasy, lest my conduct should prove
displeasing to you : but I have done what, considering all cir-
cumstances, appeared to me most eligible and prudent.

Vessels are preparing to carry the brigade to New Windsor,
which will embark this evening. I shall, this afternoon, set out
on my return to camp ; and on my way, shall endeavor to hasten
the troops forward.

I have the honor to be.

With great esteem and respect.
Your Excellency's most ob't,

Alex. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO GATES.

Albany, November 5, 1777.

Sir:

By inquiry, I have learned that General Patterson's brigade,
which is the one you propose to send, is by far the weakest of
the three now here, and does not consist of more than about six
hundred rank and file fit for duty. It is true, that there is a
militia regiment with it of about two hundred ; but the time of
service for which this regiment is engaged, is so near expiring.

44 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 20.

that it would be past by the time the men could arrive at their
destination.

Under these circumstances, I cannot consider it either as
compatible with the good of the service, or my instructions from
His Excellency General Washington, to consent that that bri-
gade be selected from the three to go to him ; but I am under the
necessity of desiring, by virtue of my orders from him, that one
of the others be substituted instead of this ; either General Nix-
on's, or General Glover's ; and that you will be pleased to give
immediate orders for its embarkation.

Knowing that General Washington wished me to pay the
greatest deference to your judgment, I ventured so far to deviate
from the instructions he gave me, as to consent, in compliance
with your opinion, that two brigades should remain here instead
of one. At the same time permit me to observe, that I am not
myself sensible of the expediency of keeping more than one,
with the detached regiments in the neighborhood of this place ;
and that my ideas coincide with those gentlemen whom I have
consulted on the occasion, whose judgment I have much more
reliance upon than on my own, and who must be supposed to
have a thorough knowledge of all the circumstances. Their
opinion is, that one brigade, and the regiments before mentioned,
would amply answer the purposes of this post. When I prefer-
red your opinion to other considerations, I did not imagine you
would pitch upon a brigade little more than half as large as the
others : and finding this to be the case, I indispensably owe it to
my duty, to desire, in His Excellency's name, that another may
go instead of the one intended, and without loss of time. As it
may be conducive to dispatch, to send Glover's brigade, if agree-
able to j^ou, you will give orders accordingly.
I have the honor to be.

With real respect and esteem.

Sir, your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

General Gates.

^T.20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 45

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New Windsor, November lOtli, 1777.

Deak Sir :

I arrived liere last night from Albany. Having given Gen-
eral Gates a little time to recollect himself, I renewed my re-
monstrances on the necessity and propriety of sending you more
than one brigade of the three he had detained with him ; and
finally prevailed upon him to give orders for Glover's in addi-
tion to Patterson's brigade, to march this way.

As it was thought conducive to expedition, to send the troops
by water, as far as it could be done, I procured all the vessels
that could be had at Albany, fit for the purpose ; but could not
get more than sufficient to take Patterson's brigade. It was
embarked the seventh instant ; but the wind has been contrary :
they must probably be here to-day. General Glover's brigade
marched at the same time, on the east side of the river, the roads
being much better than on this side. I am at this moment in-
formed, that one sloop, with a part of Patterson's, has arrived,
and that the others are in sight. They will immediately proceed,
by water, to King's Ferry, and thence take the shortest route.

I am pained beyond expression to inform your Excellency,
that on my arrival here, I find every thing has been neglected
and deranged by General Putnam ; and that the two brigades.
Poor's and Learned's, still remain here and on the other side of
the river at Fishkill. Colonel Warner's militia, I am told, have
been drawn to Peekskill, to aid in an expedition against New-
York, which, it seems, is, at this time, the hobby-horse with
General Putnam. Not the least attention has been paid to my
order, in your name, for a detachment of one thousand men
from the troops hitherto stationed at this post. Every thing is
sacrificed to the whim of taking New- York.

The tAvo brigades of Poor and Learned, it appears, would
not march for want of money and necessaries ; several of the
regiments having received no pay for six or eight months past.
There has been a high mutiny among the former on this account,

46 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

in wliich a captain killed a man, and was himself sliot by his
comrade. These difficulties, for want of proper management,
have stopped the troops from proceeding. Governor Clinton
has been the only man who has done any thing towards remov-
ing them ; but for want of General Putnam's co-operation, has
not been able to effect it. He has only been able to prevail with
Learned's brigade, to agree to march to Goshen ; in hopes, by
getting them once on the go, to induce them to continue their
march. On coming here, I immediately sent for Colonel Bailey,
who now commands Learned's brigade, and persuaded him to
engage to carry the brigade on to head quarters as fast as possi-
ble. This he expects to effect by means of five or six thousand
dollars, which Governor Clinton was kind enough to borrow for
me, and which Colonel Bailey thinks will keep the men in good
humor till they join you. They marched this morning towards
Goshen.

I shall, as soon as possible, see General Poor, and do every
thing in my power to get him along ; and hope I shall be able
to succeed.

The plan I before laid, having been totally deranged, a new
one has become necessary. It is now too late to send Warner's
militia ; by the time they reached you, their term of service
would be out. The motive for sending them, which was to give
you a sjDeedy reinforcement, has, by the past delay, been super-
seded.

By Governor Clinton's advice, I have sent an order, in the
most emphatical terms, to General Putnam, immediately to dis-
patch all the continental troops under him to your assistance ;
and to detain the militia instead of them.

My opinion is, that the only present use for troops in this
quarter, is, to protect the country from the depredations of little
plundering parties ; and for carrying on the works necessary for
the defence of the river. Nothing more ought to be thought of.
'Tis only wasting time, and misapplying men, to employ them in
a suicidal parade against New- York : for in this it will undoubt-
edly terminate. New- York is no object, if it could be taken :
and to take it, would require more men than could be spared

^T. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 47

from more substantial purposes. Governor Clinton's ideas coin-
cide witli mine. He thinks that there is no need of more conti-
nental troops here, than a few to give a spur to the militia in
working upon the fortifications. In pursuance of this, I have
given the directions before mentioned. If General Putnam at-
tends to them, the trooj^s under him may be with you nearly as
early as any of the others (though he has, unluckily, marched
them down to Tarrytown) ; and General Glover's brigade, when
it gets up, Avill be more than sufficient to answer the true end of
this post.

If your Excellency agrees with me in opinion, it will be well
to send instant directions to General Putnam, to pursue the
object I have mentioned : for I doubt whether he will attend to
any thing I shall say, notwithstanding it comes in the shape of
a positive order. I fear, unless you interpose, the works here
will go on so feebly, for want of men, that they will not be com-
pleted in time : whereas, it appears to me of the greatest im-
portance they should be pushed with the utmost vigor. Gover-
nor Clinton will do every thing in his power. I wish General
Putnam was recalled from the command of this post, and Gov-
ernor Clinton would accept it : the blunders and caprices of the
former are endless. Believe me, Sir, nobody can be more im-
pressed with the importance of forwarding the reinforcements
coming to you, with all speed ; nor could any body have endea-
vored to promote it more than I have done : but the ignorance of
some, and the design of others, have been almost insuperable
obstacles. I am very unwell ; but I shall not spare myself to
get things immediately in a proper train ; and for that purpose
intend, unless I receive other orders from you, to continue with
the troops in the progress of their march. As soon as I get
General Poor's brigade in march, I shall proceed to General
Putnam's at Peekskill.

I have, &c.,

Alex. Hamilton.

His Excellency, General Washington.

48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 20.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New Windsor, November 12, 1777.

Deak Sir :

I liave been detained here these two days by a fever, and
violent rheumatic pains throughout my body. This has pre-
vented my being active, in person, for promoting the purposes of
my errand ; but I have taken every other method in my power,
in which Governor Chnton has obhgingly given me all the aid he
could. In answer to my pressing application to General Poor,
for the immediate marching of his brigade, I was told they were
under an operation for the itch ; which made it impossible for
them to proceed till the effects of it were over. By a letter,
however, of yesterday, General Poor informs me, he would
certainly march this morning. I must do him the justice to say,
he appears solicitous to join you; and that I believe the past
delay is not owing to any fault of his, but is wholly chargeable
on General Putnam. Indeed, Sir, I owe it to the service to say,
that every part of this gentleman's conduct is marked with
blunder and negligence, and gives general disgust.

Parsons' brigade will join you, I hope, in iive or six days
from- this. Learned's may do the same. Poor's will, I am per-
suaded, make all the haste they can for the future. And Glover's
may be expected at Fishkill to-night ; w^hence they will be
pressed forward as fast as I can have any influence to make
them go. But I am sorry to say, the disposition for marching,
in the ofiicers and men in general, of these troops, does not keep
pace with my wishes, or the exigency of the occasion. They
have, unfortunately, imbibed an idea, that they have done their
part of the business of the campaign, and are now entitled to
repose. This, and the want of pay, make them averse to a long
march at this advanced season.

* * ^ In a letter from General Putnam, just now received by
Governor Clinton, he appears to have been, the 10th instant, at
King's Street, at the White Plains. I have had no answer to
my last applications. The enemy appear to have stripped New-

^T. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 49

York very bare. Tlie people there, that is, tlie tories, are in a
great fright : this adds to my anxiety, that the reinforcements
from this quarter to yon are not in greater forwardness and more
considerable.

I have written to General Gates, informing him of the ac-
counts of the situation of New-York with respect to troops, and
the probabilitj^ of the force gone to Howe being greater than was
at first expected ; to try if this will not extort from him a further
reinforcement. I don't, however, expect much from him ; as he
pretends to have in view an expedition against Ticonderoga, to
be undertaken in the winter: and he knows that, under the
sanction of this idea, calculated to catch the eastern people, he
ma}^, without censure, retain the troops. And as I shall be
under a necessity of speaking plainly to your Excellency, when
I have the pleasure of seeing you, I shall not hesitate to" say, I
doubt whether you would have had a man from the northern
army, if the whole could have been kept at Albany with any
decency. Perhaps you will think me blamable in not having
exercised the powers you gave me, and given a positive order.
Perhaps I have been so : but, deliberately weighing all circum-
stances, I did not, and do not, think it advisable to do it.
I have the honor to be,

With unfeigned esteem and regard,

Your Excellency's most ob't servant,

A. Hamilton.
His Excellency General Washington.

HAMILTON TO GATES.

FisHKiLL, November 12, 1777.

Sir:

Ever since my arrival in this quarter, I have been endeavor-
ing to collect the best idea I could of the state of things in New-
York, in order the better to form a judgment of the probable
reinforcement gone to General Howe. On the whole, this is a
fact well ascertained, that New-York has been stripped as bare
VOL. I. 4

50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 20.

as possible : that in consequence of tliis, tlie few troops there, and
tlie inhabitants, are under so strong apprehensions of an attack,
as almost to amount to a panic ; that to supply the deficiency of
men, every effort is making to excite the citizens to arms for the
defence of the city. For this purpose, the public papers are full
of addresses to them, that plainly speak the apprehensions pre-
vailing on the occasion.

Hence I infer, that a formidable force is gone to General
Howe. The calculations made by those who have had the best
opportunities of judging, carry the number from six to seven
thousand. If so, the number gone, and going, to General "Wash-
ington, is far inferior ; five thousand at the utmost. The militia
were all detained by General Putnam till it became too late to
send them.

The state of things I gave you when I had the pleasure of
seeing you, was, to the best of my knowledge, sacredly true. I
give you the present information, that you may decide, whether
any further succor can with propriety come from you.

The fleet, with the troops on board, sailed out of the Hook
on the fifth instant. This circumstance demonstrates, beyond the
possibility of doubt, that it is General Howe's fixed intention to
endeavor to hold Philadelphia at all hazards ; and removes all
' danger of any further operations up the North Eiver this winter.
Otherwise, Sir Henry Chnton's movement, at this advanced sea-
son, is altogether inexplicable.

H you can with propriety afford any further assistance, the
most expeditious manner of conveying it will be to acquaint
General Putnam of it, that he may send on the troops with him,
to be replaced by them. You, Sir, best know the uses to which
the troops with you are to be applied, and will determine accord-
ingly. I am certain it is not His Excellency's wish to frustrate
any plan you may have in view for the benefit of the service, so
far as it can possibly be avoided, consistent with a due attention
to more important objects.

I am, with respect, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

Alex. Hamilton, A. D. C.

To General Gates.

iEx. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 51

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Peekskill, Nov. 15, 1777.

Dear Sir :

I arrived at this place last night, and unfortunately find my-
self unable to proceed any further. Imagining I had gotten the
better of my complaint, which confined me at Governor Clinton's,
and anxious to be about attending to the march of the troops, the
day before yesterday I crossed the ferry, in order to fall in with
General Glover's brigade, which was on its march from Pough-
keepsie to Fishkill. I did not, however, see it myself, but
received a letter from Colonel Shepherd, who commands the
frigate, informing me he would be last night at Fishkill, and this
night at King's ferry. Wagons, &c., are provided on the other
side for his accommodation ; so that there need be no delay but
what is voluntary ; and I believe Colonel Shepherd is as well
disposed as could be wished to hasten his march. General Poor's
brigade crossed the ferry the day before yesterday. Two York
regiments, Courtland's and Livingston's, are with them: they
were unwilling to be separated from the brigade, and the brigade
from them. General Putnam was unwilling to keep them with
him : and if he had consented to do it, the regiments to displace
them would not join you six days as soon as these. The troops
now remaining with General Putnam will amount to about the
number you intended, though they are not exactly the same.
He has detached Colonel Charles Webb's regiment to you. He
says the troops with him are not in a condition to march, being
destitute of shoes, stockings, and other necessaries : but I believe
the true reasons of his being unwilling to pursue the mode
pointed out by you, were his aversion to the York troops, and
his desire to retain General Parsons with him.

I am, with much respect and esteem,
Your Excellency's most ob't serv't,

A. Hamilton.

To General Washington.

52 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

f

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Head-Quarters, November 15, 1777.

Dear Sir :

I have duly received your several favors, from the time you
left me to that of the twelfth instant. I approve entirely of all
the steps you have taken ; and have only to wish, that the ex-
ertions of those you have had to deal with, had kept pace with
your zeal and good intentions. I hope your health will, before
this, have permitted you to push on the rear of the whole rein-
forcement beyond New Windsor. Some of the enemy's ships
have arrived in the Delaware ; but how many have troops on
board, I cannot exactly ascertain. The enemy have lately dam-
aged Fort Miflin considerably : but our people keep possession,
and seem determined to do so to the last extremity. Our loss in
men has been but small. Captain Treat is unfortunately among
the killed, I wish you a safe return,

And am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

G. Washington.

Lt. Col. Hamilton.

HUGH KNOX TO HAMILTON.

St. Croix, December 10, 1777-

Dear Hamilton:

The fine, impartial, laconic, and highly descriptive account
you favored me with of the last year's campaign, in your letter
of March last, excited in me, and many of your other friends
here, an earnest desire of further accounts from your pen, of the
succeeding fortunes of the Great American War : a war which
will, one day, shine more illustriously in the historic page, than
any which has happened since the times of Nimrod and the
Giants ; and deservedly, on account of the goodness of the cause,
the grandeur of the object, the eclat of the Generals, the bravery
of the troops — and (alas ! that I should be obliged to add) of

^T. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 53

tlie cruelty and ferocity wliicli lias marked the route of your
enemies ; and the tons of brothers' blood which have been shed
on the unhappy occasion !

I wrote two answers to your obliging letter, both of which I
hope have reached you ; and in both of which I have urged it
upon you, to make and collect such memoirs as the urgency of
your affairs will permit you ; which may furnish materials for
an accurate history of the war, when you shall have leisure to
fill up and embellish such a skeleton, with all that elegance and
dignity of which your fine pen is capable.

The honorable post you hold under the great General
Washington, and so near his person, will give you a peculiar
advantage for delineating his character, both in his amiable pri-
vate virtues, and military abilities. And depend upon it, the
very minutiae of that incomparable man will be read with avidity
by posterity. You know me too well, I hope, to suspect me of
superstition ; yet I feel myself, at times, under a strong impulse
to prophesy^ that Washington was born for the deliverance of
America — that that Providence who has raised and trained him
up for that very purpose, will watch over his sacred life with a
paternal and solicitous care ; will shield his head in every day of
battle — ivill give him to see America yree, flourishing^ and happy —
and will adorn his fame, among latest posterity, with a Garland of
Laurel, more verdant, blooming, and enviable, than ever adorned
the brow of a Marlborough !

The bearer of this line (if he should be indeed so fortunate
as to put it into your hand) is our worthy friend, Mr, Cornelius
Durant, who is possessed of an ardent desire of having the
honor of a short interview with General Washington; princi-
pally, that he may have it to say, that he has seen and spoken
to the greatest man of this Age : and, indeed, considering Mr. Du-
rant's personal worth ; his uncommon zeal for, and attachment
to, the American cause ; the losses he has sustained in attempt-
ing to assist her ; and his extraordinary admiration of, and love
to, the General's character and person ; few men more richly
merit this indulgence. If you still exist, and exist near the
General's person (and I have not yet seen your name among the

54 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 20.

lists of tlie slain or tlie disgraced), jou can easily procure him
this honor — and I trust you will.

We are now blessed with, and certified of, the glorious news
of Burgoyne's surrender to the immortal Gates ; another bright
star in the Constellation of American Heroes : and we are mo-
mently expecting to hear, that General Washington has done
something like the same by General Howe ! But we yet tremble
in suspense — and it is indeed a i^cdnful one. Probably before this
letter goes, we shall hear more of the matter. Our general
accounts are favorable : and while the Chevaux de frize are de-
fended, we have no fears about Philadelphia. May this cam-
paign decide the matter!

By the time this reaches you, you will be (if you are at all)
in winter quarters ; and perhaps may be at leisure to write me a
half folio, of which Mr. Durant T\dll take care to write me dupli-
cates or triplicates, for fear of miscarriage.

A piece of mine, entitled " An Address to America, by a
friend in a foreign government," has been sent to the Congress
for publication (if approved). I know not yet its fate. It is, at
least, an honestly designed and animating piece, but written
incorrectly, and in a hurry. If you have seen it, pray give me
your sentiments about it ; but let it be on a loose paper inclosed
in' your letter; for the knowledge of my being the author must
be a profound secret here.

My wishes are, that the God of Armies may defend and
protect you, and cause you happily to survive, and to hand down
to posterity the present important scenes. Numbers here esteem
you, and would join me in declaring themselves, as I do,
Dear Hamilton,

Your ever affectionate friend and servant,

Hugh Knox.

iET. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 55

CLINTON TO HAMILTON.

PouGHKEEPsiE, 28th December, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I was favored with the receipt of your letter of the 22d in-
stant, some days since, and returned a short answer to it by the
express who brought it ; but as I have reason to beUeve you had
left Peekskill before he got there, I conclude my letter has not
been received. I have not a doubt but that there have been
such unjust and dishonorable practices committed on the inhab-
itants as you mention ; nor have I reason to believe they were
without the knowledge of the commanding oflSicer of the Depart-
ment. Complaints have been exhibited to him of cattle, the
property of the inhabitants of this State, living near Col. Eobin-
son's, being drove off by parties of the continental troops, and
sold at vendue in New England, without any account being ren-
dered to the proprietors ; and, if I am rightly informed, an
officer with a party, took sundry articles from Robinson's, sent
them oflP and sold them in like manner in Connecticut, and has
not accounted with the States for the proceeds. Of this I in-
formed General Putnam, and desired that an inquiry might be
made into the conduct of the officer commanding the party, to
which I was more particularly induced, as I found he had given
an order on the Quarter-Master General for the payment of the
teams employed in carrying off those effects ; but I have reason
to believe he has had no regard to my request. Of this I am
fully convinced, that the soldiery claim as lawful prize every
thing they take within the enemy's lines, though the proj)erty of
our best friends, and whatever is taken beyond our advanced
posts, by a generous construction, comes within the above pre-
dicament. On this principle the several articles taken at and
near Robinson's were sold because the enemy's shipping were
then in the river near that place; and on tlie same principle
indiscriminate plunder might have taken place on both sides of
the river as high up as the manor of Livingston. Little good
can be expected of an army whose interest it is to suffer a

56 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 21.

country to be abandoned to the enemy, thereby to justify plun-
dering tbe inhabitants. Perhaps, and I don't know that it would
be uncharitable to suppose, that it is this trade that makes some
people so very fond of little expeditions.

I have long thought to ascertain these facts, and seek redress
not only for the parties immediately injured, but the public;
but my time has been so fully employed of late about other
matters that I have been obliged to neglect it.

* * * * vf -jf *

May I expect a line from you whenever you have leisure ;
be assured it will always be most kindly received, though per-
haps not quite so punctually answered by

Your most obedient servant,

Geo. Clinton.
My respects to Capt. Gibbs and young Livingston.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM DUER, M. C.

Head-Quarters, 1778.

Dear Sir:

I take the liberty to trouble you with a few hints on a matter
of some hnportance. Baron Steuben, who will be the bearer of
this, waits on Congress to have his office* arranged upon some
decisive and permanent footing. It will not be amiss to be on
your guard. The Baron is a gentleman for whom I have a par-
ticular esteem; and whose zeal, intelligence, and success, the
consequence of both, entitle him to the greatest credit. But I
am apprehensive, with all his good qualities, a fondness for
power and importance, natural to every man, may lead him to
wish for more extensive jjrerogatives in his department than it
will be for the good of the ser\dce to grant. I should be sorry
to excite any prejudice against him on this account: jjcrhaps I
may be mistaken in my conjecture. The caution I give will do

* Inspector-General of the Army.

tEt. 21.] CORRESPONDENCE. 57

no liarm if I am : if I am not, it may be useful. In either case,
tlie Baron deserves to be considered as a valuable man, and
treated witli all the deference whicli good policy will warrant.

On tlie first institution of this office, the General allowed
him to exercise more ample powers than would be proper for a
continuance. They were necessary in the commencement, to
put things in a train with a degree of dispatch which the exi-
gency of our aftairs required : but it has been necessary to re-
strain them, even earlier than was intended. The novelty of
the office excited questions about its boundaries ; the extent of
its operations alarmed the officers of every rank for their own
rights. Their jealousies and discontents were rising fast to a
height that threatened to overturn the whole plan. It became
necessary to apply a remedy. The General has delineated the
functions of the Inspectorship in general orders, a copy of which
will be sent to Congress. The plan is good, and satisfactory to
the army in general.

It may be improved, but it will be unsafe to deviate essen-
tially from it. It is of course the General's intention, that
whatever regulations are adopted by him, should undergo the
revision, and receive the sanction, of Congress : but it is indis-
pensable, in the present state of our army, that he should have
the power, from time to time, to introduce and authorize the
reformations necessary in our system. It is a work which must
be done by occasional and gradual steps ; and ought to be in-
trusted to a person on the spot, who is thoroughly acquainted
with all our defects, and has judgment sufficient to adopt the
progressive remedies they require. The plan established by
Congress, on a report of the Board of War when Conway was
appointed, appears to me exceptionable in many respects. It
makes the Inspector independent of the Commander-in-chief;
confers powers which would produce universal opposition in the
army ; and, by making the previous concurrence of the Board
of AVar. requisite to the introduction of every regulation which
should be found necessary, opens such a continual source of
delay as would defeat the usefulness of the institution. Let the
Commander-in-chief introduce, and the legislature afterwards

58 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 21.

ratifj^, or reject, as tliey shall think proper. Perhaps you will
not differ much from me, when I suppose, that so far as relates
to the Board of War, the former scheme was a hrat of faction,
and therefore ought to be renounced.

There is one thing which the Baron has much at heart,
which, in good policy, he can by no means be indulged in : it is
the power of enforcing that part of discipline which we under-
stand by subordination, or an obedience to orders. This power
can only be properly lodged with the Commander-in-chief, and
would inflame the whole army if put into other hands. Each
Captain is vested with it in his company ; each Colonel in his
regiment : each General in his j)articular command : and the
Commander-in-chief in the whole.

When I began this letter, I did not intend to meddle with
any other subject than the Inspectorship ; but one just comes
into my head which appears to me of no small importance. The
goodness, or force, of an army, depends as much, perhaps more,
on the composition of the corps which form it, as on its collec-
tive number. The composition is good or bad, not only accord-
ing to the quality of the men, but in joroportion to the com-
pleteness or incompleteness of a corps in respect to numbers.
A regiment, for instance, with a full complement of officers, and
fifty or sixty men, is not half so good as a company with the
same number of men. A Colonel will look upon such a com-
mand as unworthy his ambition, and will neglect and despise it :
a Captain would 2;)ride himself in it, and take all the pains in
his power to bring it to perfection. In one case we shall see a
total relaxation of discijjline, and negligence of ever}^ thing that
constitutes military excellence: in the other, there will be at-
tention, energy, and every thing that can be wished. Opinion,
whether well or ill-founded, is the governing principle of human
affairs. A corps much below its establishment, comj^aring what
it is with what it ought to be, loses all confidence in itself; and
the whole army loses that confidence and emulation which are
essential to success. These, and a thousand other things that
will occur to you, make it evident, that the most important
advantages attend the having comj^lete corps, and proportional

^T. 21.] CORRESPONDENCE. 59

disadvantages the reverse. Ten thousand men, distributed into
twenty imperfect regiments, will not have the efl&ciency of the
same number in half the number of regiments. The fact is,
with respect to the American army, that the want of discipline,
and other defects we labor under, are as much owing to the
skeleton state of our regiments as to any other cause. What
then ?

Have we any prospect of filling our regiments ? My opinion is,
that we have nearly arrived to our ne plus ultra. If so, we ought
to reduce the number of corps, and give them that substance and
consistency which they want, by incorporating them together, so
as to bring them near their establishment. By this measure
the army would be infinitely improved ; and the State would
be saved the expense of maintaining a number of superfluous
ofiicers.

In the present condition of our regiments, they are incapable
even of performing their common exercises without joining two
or more together : an expedient reluctantly submitted to by
those ofiicers who see themselves made second in command of a
battalion, instead of first, as their commission imports; which
happens to every younger Colonel whose regiment is united with
that of an elder.

What would be the inconveniencies, while the ofiicers who
remain in command, and who might be selected from the others
on account of superior merit, would applaud themselves in the
preference given them, and rejoice at a change which confers
such additional consequence on themselves ?

Those who should be excluded by the measure, would return
home discontented, and make a noise, which would soon subside
and be forgotten among matters of greater moment. To quiet
them still more effectually, if it should be thought necessary,
they might be put upon half-pay for a certain time.

If, on considering this matter, you should agree with me in
sentiment, it were to be wished the scheme could be immediately
adopted, while the arrangement now in hand is still unexecuted.
If it is made, it will be rather inconvenient, immediately after,
to unhinge and throw the whole system again afloat.

60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 21.

When you determined on your last arrangement, you did
not know Avhat success the different States might have had in
draughting and recruiting. It would then have been improper
to reduce the number of corps, as proposed. We have now seen
their success: we have no prospect of seeing the regiments filled;
we should reduce them.

Believe me to be.

With great esteem and regard.

Dear Sir, your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO GEN. SULLIVAN.

Head-Quarters, 1778.

Sir:

His Excellency has received your two last favors to-day. In
the first you hint the want of a reinforcement, but as the inten-
tion of your body is chiefly for observation and skirmishing, and
not to make any serious stands, it is the less necessary it should
be powerful in numbers. It will, however, depend upon circum-
stances how far it will be expedient to reinforce you ; and as
soon as any thing can be determined from them, you shall have
whatever addition of strength you may stand in need of.

The information contained in your last, of the enemy's being
encamped on the road leading from New Brunswick to Prince-
ton, about the Third Mile Eun, is not well founded. We have
had parties and ofiicers reconnoitring as far as the Mile Eun, and
there is no sign of an encampment. They seem to be taking
their old position with their right at Amboy, their left at Bruns-
wick; but how long they will remain so it is hard to tell. His
Excellency desires you will engage some trusty person at South
Amboy, on whom you can depend for faithful and early intelli-
gence of the appearance of shipping in the river, or any prepa-
rations for a movement by water, that we may be in time pre-
pared to counteract them.

I am, with regard. Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

.Et. 21.] CORRESPONDENCE. 61

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 8th May, 1778.

Dear Sir: *

An opinion of your benevolence leads me to address this
letter to you. Accident has introduced me to Monsieur Lewis
de Caleron. We happen to lodge in the same house. His mod-
esty and decent manners made an impression upon me, and
induced me to make some inquiries into his history and char-
acter. The gentlemen of this place say handsome things of
him. He is the son of a Major General who fell last war at
Ticonderoga. The family is still in Canada, and one of the
most respectable in that country. He was sent to France when
five years old, and there educated. He came out with some
French troops to Martinico, and by their General, as well as Mr.
Bingham, was recommended to CongTess. They gave him a
brevet for a Captain's commission. He served last campaign as
a volunteer, first with General Furmoy, and afterwards with
Colonel Morgan. To me he appears to have been neglected. It
seems he did not descend to the adulation lately fashionable, and
perhaps acceptable, in his department. While effrontery and
arrogance, even in our virtuous and enlightened days, are giving
rank and importance to men whom wisdom would have left in
obscurity, I am persuaded you will be happy in an opportunity
of exploring, as well as cherishing, modest merit. I think M.
De Caleron is not without it, and under this impression I re-
commend him to your notice as a probationer.

Tell me in some future letter whether he deserves the favor-
able opinion I am inclined to entertain of him.
I am, dear Sir,

Very sincerely, and with much esteem.
Your obedient servant,

John Jay.

Lt. Col. Hamilton.

62 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 21.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Head-Quarters, 4th June, 1778.

Sir:

Mr, Loring having been sent by Sir Henry Clinton to meet
Mr. Boudinot, or any otlier person appointed by me for the
purpose of effecting an exchange of prisoners. I have therefore
to desire you (Mr. Boudinot being absent from camp) to hear
any proposals Mr. Loring may have to offer on this subject; and
to do definitively whatever may be necessary, towards the execu-
tion of a general exchange of prisoners. And I hereby assure
you that your proceedings in this instance will be ratified by me.
I am, Sir, your very humble servant,

G. Washington.
Lieut. Col, Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO THE MAEQUIS DE LAFAYETTE.

25tli June, 1778.

Sir:

We find, on our arrival here, that the intelligence received
on the road is true. The enemy have all filed off" from Allen
Town, on the Monmouth road. Their rear is said to be a mile
westward of Lawrence Taylor's tavern, six miles from Allen
Town. General Maxwell is at Hyde's Town, about three miles
from this place. General Dickinson is said to be on the enemy's
right flank ; but where, cannot be told. We can hear nothing
certain of General Scott; but, from circumstances, he is pro-
bably at Allen Town. We shall, agreeably to your request,
consider and appoint some proper place of rendezvous for the
union of our force, which we shall communicate to Generals
Maxwell and Scott, and to yourself In the mean time, I would
recommend to you to move toward this place as soon as the con-
venience of your men will permit. I am told that Colonel Mor-
gan is on the enemy's right flank. We had a slight skirmish

^T. 21.] CORRESPONDENCE. 63

witli tlieir rear this forenoon, at Robert Montgomery's, on the
Monmouth road, leading from Allen Town. We shall see Gen-
eral Maxwell immediately, and you will hear from us again.
Send this to the General after reading it.

I am your ob't serv't,

Alex. Hamilton.

Doctor Stile's House, Cranbury Town, 9 o'clock.
We are just informed that General Scott passed by Hooper's
tavern, five miles from Allen Town, this afternoon at five o'clock.
M. De Lafayette.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

S Robin's Tavern, 8 miles from Allen Town,
( 12 o'clock, June 26, 1778.

Sir :

We have halted the troops at this place. The enemy, by
our last reports, were four miles from this (that is, their rear),
and had passed the road which turns off toward South Amboy,
which determines their route toward Shrewsbury. Our reason
for halting, is the extreme distress of the troops for want of
provisions. General Wayne's detachment is almost starving,
and seems both unwilling and unable to march further till they
are supplied. If we do not receive an immediate supply, the
whole purpose of our detachment must be frustrated.

This morning we missed doing any thing, from a deficiency
of intelligence. On my arrival at Cranbury yester-evening, I
proceeded, by desire of the Marquis, immediately to Hyde's
Town and Allen Town, to take measures for co-operating with
the different parts of the detachment, and to fin^l what was doing
to procure intelligence. I found every precaution was neglected ;
no horse was near the enemy, nor could be heard of till late in
the morning : so that before we could send out parties and get
the necessary information, they were in full march : and as they

64 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 21.

have marclied pretty expeditiously, we should not be able to
come up witli tbem during the march of the day, if we did not
suffer the impediment we do, on the score of provisions. We
are entirely at a loss where the army is, which is no inconsid-
erable check to our enterprise. If the army is wholly out of
supporting (distance, we risk the total loss of the detachment in
making an attack.

If the army will countenance us, we may do something
clever. We feel our personal honor, as well as the honor of the
army, and the good of the service, interested ; and are heartily
desirous to attempt whatever the disposition of our men will
second, and prudence authorize. It is evident the enemy wish
to avoid, not to engage us.

Desertions, I imagine, have been pretty considerable to-day.
I have seen eight or ten deserters, and have heard of many more.
We have had some little skirmishing by detached parties : one
attacked their rear-guard with a degree of success, killed a few,
and took seven prisoners.

An officer is just come in, who informs that he left the
enemy's rear five miles off, still in march, about half an hour
ago. To ascertain still more fully their route, I have ordered a
fresh party on their left, toward the head of their column. They
have three brigades in rear of their baggage.

I am, with great respect and regard. Sir,
Your obedient servant.

A, Hamilton.

His Excellency General Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON,
« June 28, 1778.

Sir:

The result of what I have seen and heard, concerning the
enemy, is, that they have encamped with their van a httle be-
yond Monmouth Court House, and their rear at Manalapan's

i

^T.21.] CORRESPONDENCE. 65

river, about seven miles from this place. Their march to-day
has been very judiciously conducted; — their baggage in front,
and their flying army in the rear, with a rear-guard of one thou-
sand men about four hundred paces from the main body. To
attack them in this situation, without being supported by the
whole army, would be folly in the extreme. If it should be
thought advisable to give the necessary support, the army can
move to some position near the enemy's left flank, which would
put them in a very awkward situation, with so respectable a
body in their rear ; and it would put it out of their power to
turn either flank, should they be so disposed. Their left is
strongly posted, and I am told their right also. By some
accounts, one part of their army lies on the road leading from
the Monmouth road to South Amboy. It is not improbable
that South Amboy may be the object.

I had written thus far when your letter to the Marquis
arrived. This puts the matter on a totally different footing.
The detachment will march to-morrow morning at three o'clock
to English Town.

I am, with great regard and esteem,
Your obedient servant,

A. Hamiltoist.

His Excellency Gren. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Black Point, July 20, 1778.

Sir:

Inclosed I transmit your Excellency a letter from Count
D'Estaing. He has had the river sounded, and finds he cannot
enter. He will sail for Rhode Island to-morrow evening. In
the mean time, he is making demonstrations to deceive the enemy,
and beget an opinion that he intends to operate in this quarter.
He would sail immediately, but he awaits the arrival, or to hear,
of a frigate which carried Mr. Gerard to Delaware, and which he

VOL. I. 5

66 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 21.

appointed to meet liim at Sandy Hook ; so tliat lie fears his sud-
den and unexpected departure, before she arrives, might cause
her to be lost. He will not, however, wait longer than till to-
morrow evening. We have agreed, that five cannon, fired briskly,
shall be a signal of his arrival by day, and the same number, with
five sky-rockets, a signal by night. In communicating this to
General Sullivan, the Count wishes not a moment may be lost ;
and that he may be directed to have persons stationed on the
coast, and intermediate expresses, to facilitate the communication
between them. Pilots will be a material article. He begs every
thing may be forwarded as much as possible ; and as many troops
collected as may be. He would be glad if a detachment could
march from your army, or could be sent by water ; for which
purpose he would send covering ships, and some vessels he has
taken, by way of transports ; but he cannot think of losing so
much time as seems necessary. H the water scheme could
shorten it, it would be a happy circumstance. He recommends
it to your attention ; and that you would take measures, if the
end can be better answered in this way, and meet him with infor-
mation of the part he may have to act to execute the plan. I
perceive he can, with difi&culty, debark four thousand troops ;
but he will try to do it.

I hope your Excellency will excuse my not being myself the
bearer of these particulars ; the end may be answered by letter.
Mr. Neville is anxious to get on. I just have heard of dispatches
arrived from you. I don't know but they may contain some-
thing new which may make the Count to wish a good convey-
ance to return an answer. My stay till to-morrow morning may
answer that end. I shall not delay coming forward.
I am, Sir, your most respectful

And obedient servant,

Alex. Hamilton.

His Excellency General Washington.

mt.21.] correspondence. 67

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Newark, July 23, 1778, one o'clock.

Sir:

I wrote to your Excellency tlie evening of tlie 20th, by Major
Neville. I remained in the neighborhood of Black Point till the
afternoon following. The Count had received his expected dis-
patches from Congress, and was to sail, as I mentioned before, the
first fair wind. At Brunswick, yesterday, Mr. Caldwell joined
me. He was immediately from the Point, and brought intelli-
gence that the fleet got under way yesterday morning. The
wind, unfortunately, has been much against them ; which is so
much the more to be regretted, as they are rather in want of
water.

I need not suggest to your Excellency, that an essential part
of the Rhode Island plan, is to take every possible measure to
watch the enemy's motions, and to establish expresses from place
to place, to give the Count instant information of any movement
among their fleet. This will enable him to be in time to inter-
cept them, should they attempt to evacuate New- York, while he
is at Rhode Island ; and will, in general, facilitate the intercourse
and co-operation between him and your Excellency.

I have nothing new to communicate, beside what was sent by
Major Neville, and what I now send. All the ideas interchanged
between the Count and myself, were such as were familiar before
I left Head Quarters. He was to go to Rhode Island, and, in
conjunction with General Sullivan, endeavor to possess himself
of the enemy's ships and troops there ; if, on his arrival, he had
good reason to think it could be effected without further assist-
ance. If not, he will be glad of a reinforcement from you in the
most expeditious manner possible. What manner you think will
be most expeditious, you will adopt ; and if his aid may be use-
ful, he will afford it as soon as he is informed of it.

This being the case, my immediate presence at Head Quarters
is the less necessary as to this business ; and I hope your Excel-
lency will indulge me, if I do not make all the dispatch back

68 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 21.

wliicli a case of emergency would require ; tliougli I do not mean
to delay, more than a moderate attention to my frail constitution
may make not improper. I have, &c.,

A, Hamilton.
His Excellency Gen. Washington.

col. laueens to hamilton".

My Dear Hamilton:

You have seen, and by this time considered. General Lee's
infamous publication. I have collected some hints for an answer ;
but I do not think, either that I cdn rely upon my own know-
ledge of facts and style to answer him fully, or that it would be
prudent to undertake it without counsel. An affair of this kind
ought to be passed over in total silence, or answered in a mas-
terly manner.

The ancient secretary is the Recueil of modern history and
anecdotes, and will give them to us with candor, elegance, and
perspicuity. The pen of Junius is in your hand ; and I think
you will, without dijlficulty, expose, in his defence, letters, and
last production, such a tissue of falsehood and inconsistency, as
will satisfy the world, and put him for ever to silence.

I think the affair will be definitively decided in Congress this
day. He has found means to league himself with the old faction,
and to gain a great many partisans.

Adieu, my dear boy. I shall set out for camp to-morrow.

John Laurens.

LAFAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

A YoRCTowN, ler Septembre, 1778.

Ne suis-je pas bien malheureux, cher Colonel. On me pousse
pour aller a Boston, on me chasse de Rhode Island, ils n'ont ni
repos, ni patience que je ne sois parti, et le meme jour que je
m'absente est le seul ou j'aurais du, ou j 'avals voulu etre dans I'ile.

^T. 21.] CORRESPONDENCE. 69

Le diable en veut dans ce moment a tons les fran^ais ; heureuse-
ment que je viens de I'attraper, car a force de courir je suis arrive
a temps pour I'evacuation dont il voulait encore me priver. Le
mallieur de ne pas etre a la premiere affaire m'a fait la peine la plus
vive, et je ne m'en consolerai jamais, qiioique ce soit bien loin d'etre
ma faute. Les deux retraites font honneur aux troupes et au
general Sullivan, qui I'y est conduit parfaitement, elles en font
rue aux Anglais et a leur g6nereaux qui n'ont montr6 ni activite,
ni genie, du moins a ce qu'il me parait,

Le malheureux Mr, Tousard a eu le bras emporte au milieu
d'une des actions les plus valeureuse qui ait ete faite. C'est un
homme aussi brave qu'il ait lionnete. Je crains d'embarrasser le
general en lui mandant ce que je voudrais qu'on fit pour lui ;
mais le commission de Major ne pouvait-elle pas se changer en
celle de lieutenant Colonel ; il avait fait un arrangement avant de
partir le grand arrangement de Mr. du Coiidray^ ou en cas de la
perte d'une membre, ils devaient avoir une pension de tant, cet
arrangement-la qui comme vou-savez n'a pas ete accepte, ne
pouvait-il pas sa renouveller en sa faveur.

II faut que vous me rendiez un grand service ; c'est de me
mander le plus de details possibles sur la flotte de Lord Howe, —
les moyens qui existent a New- York, etc. etc. Mr. D'Estaing a
beaucoup de raisons de croire qu'il est arrive quelques vais-
seaux d'Angleterre, autres le Cornwall. Mandez-moi dans une
longue lettre, Mon Cher Hamilton, ce que vous pensez sur ce qui
a 6te fait, ce qui va se faire, et ce que pouvait etre fait dans la
suite. Votre depeche me trouvera a Warren, petite ville pres de
la Providence, ou je vais m'occuper a garder beaucoup de pays
avec pen de troupes, et ou sans repondre d'empecher une descente
des ennemis ; je ferai le moins mal possible ; si forces ^gales, je
tacherai de les battre. On me flatte que le General viendra ici
lui-meme ; Dieu le veuille. Les affaires sur lesquelles je vous ai
ecrit mes complaintes, I'appaisent un peu, mais pour prendre
Ehode Island il nous faut le General Washington.

J'attends de vos nouvelles par Mons de Pontgibault et finerai

simplement ma lettre en vous assurant de mon tendre attache-

ment,

Lafayette.

70 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 21.

HAMILTON TO .

■ Head Quarters, Nov. 8, 1778.

Dear Sir :

I have received your favor of the 4th, and shall with pleasure
communicate the intelligence we have had at Head Quarters.
On the morning of the third one hundred and eight sail of ves-
sels sailed out of the Hook, — supposed, from the best calcula-
tions, to contain seven or eight thousand men. They first steered
to the eastward, but soon after changed their course and bore
S. E. with the wind at N. W. The general accounts from New-
York speak of three distinct embarkations — one for the West
Indies — another for Halifax — another for St. Augustine. One
division, which seems to be best ascertained, contains ten or
twelve British regiments, and most of the new levies, which
probably Avent in the above-mentioned fleet.

This much is j)retty certain, that the embarkation has con-
tinued since the departure of that fleet, which is a strong circum-
stance in favor of a general evacuation. All their vessels the
least out of repair are drawn up to the different shiiD-yards, and
their repairs are going on with all possible vigor. "Whether the
merchants are packing up or not, is a point still much in dubio ;
though we have several accounts that look like it, but they are
not so precise and certain as could be wished. Several bales of
goods have been seen on the wharves, marked for particular
ships. A deserter, indeed, lately from the city, insists that he
saw Cof&n and Anderson j)acking up. This, if true, would be
decisive, for this is a very considerable house particularly attached
to the army. One of our spies, a trusty one too, writes the 31st
of October that the principal part of the sick from the hospitals
had embarked ; but this stands almost wholly upon its own bot-
tom. The capture of Jamaica seems to be a mere rumor. There
are several others, respecting St. Kitts, Monserat, and Grenada.
The two former are said to have been taken by surprise on a tem-
porary absence of their guard-ships, but these stories were not
improbably suggested by a late sudden and very considerable rise

Mt.21.] correspondence. 71

in tlie prices of rum and molasses. The former being as high as
fourteen or fifteen shillings per gallon. Large purchases have
been made of these articles as sea stores for the troops, and the
speculators in the city have been bidding against the Commissa-
ries, which better accounts for the increased prices.

It is a question very undecided in my mind whether the
enemy will evacuate or not. Reasoning a priori, the arguments
seem to be strongest for it — from the exhausted state of the
British resources — the naked condition of their dominions every
where — and the possibility of a Spanish war. But on the other
hand naval superiority must do a great deal in the business. This,
I think, considering all things, appears clearly enough to be on the
side of Britain. The sluggishness of Spain affords room to doubt
her taking a decisive j)art. The preserving posts in these States
will greatly distress our trade, and give security to the British
West India trade. They will also cover the West Indies, and
restrain any operations of ours against the British dominions on
the continent. These considerations, and the depreciated state
of our currency, will be strong inducements to keep New- York
and Rhode Island, if not with a view to conquest, with a view to
temporary advantages, and making better terms in a future nego-
tiation.

From appearances, the great delay which attends the embarka-
tion, the absolute tranquillity of the post at Rhode Island, where
there is no kind of preparation for leaving it, and some other cir-
cumstances, seem to indicate an intention to remain. On the
other hand, besides the general appearances I have already men-
tioned, their inattention to the petition of the refugees, and the
not raising new works, are strong additional reasons for going
away. I think it most probable, if they were determined to con-
tinue a garrison, that they would give most explicit assurances to
their friends, in order to encourage their proposal, and engage
them to aid in maintaining it. I think also they would contract
their works, to be better proportioned to the number, of the gar-
rison, and of course more defensible, by throwing a chain of for-
tifications across the narrow part of the island.

Nothing has yet been decided, that we know of, with respect

72 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 21.

to tlie sentences you mention. General Lee's case, by our last
advices, was on the eve of a final decision. It seems lie lias made
a strong party in Congress, and is very confident of having the
sentence annulled. St. Clair's trial was ordered to be printed for
the separate consideration of the members.

The depreciation of our currency really casts a gloom on our
prospects, but my sentiments on this subject are rather peculiar.
I think, bad as it is, it will continue to draw out the resources of
the country a good while longer, and especially if the enemy
make such detachments, of which there is hardly a doubt, as will
oblige them to act on the defensive. This will make our public
expenditures infinitely less — and will allow the States leisure to
attend to the arrangements of their finances, as well as the coun-
try tranquillity to cultivate its resources.

Any letters that may come to Head Quarters for you will be
carefully forwarded.

I am, with the most respectful attachment,

Dear Sir, your obed't servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.

Head Quarters, 19th Dec, 1778.

I snatch a hasty moment, my dear Baron, to acknowledge the
receipt of your obliging favor of the sixth. It came here while
I was absent in an interview with some British Commissioners on
the subject of an exchange of prisoners, and was not delivered
to me till two days ago. I am sorry that your business does not
seem to make so speedy a progress as we all wish ; but I hope it
will soon come to a satisfactory termination. I wish you to be
in a situation to employ yourself usefully and agreeably, and to
contribute to giving our military constitution that order and per-
fection it certainly wants. I have not time now to enter upon
some matters which I shall take another opportunity to give you
my sentiments concerning. I have read your letter to Lee with

^T. 21.] CORRESPONDENCE. 73

pleasure. It was conceived in terms which the offence merited ;
and if he had had any feehng, must have been felt by him. Con-
sidering the pointedness and severity of your expressions, his
answer was certainly a very modest one, and proved that he had
not a violent appetite for so close a tete-a-tete as you seem dis-
posed to insist upon. This evasion, if known to the world, would
do him very little honor. I don't know but I shall be shortly at
Philadelphia : if so, I shall have the honor of personally assuring
you of the perfect respect and esteem with which I am.
My dear Baron,

Your most obed't servant,

Alex. Hamilton.

NARRATIVE OF AN AFFAIR OF HONOR BETWEEN GENERAL LEE

AND COL. LAURENS.

24th December, 1778.

General Lee, attended by Major Edwards and Col. Laurens
attended by Col. Hamilton, met agreeable to appointment on
Wednesday afternoon half past three, in a wood, situate near the
four mile stone on the Point-no-Point Eoad. Pistols having
been the weapons previously fixed upon, and the combatants be-
ing provided with a brace each, it was asked in what manner
they were to proceed. General Lee proposed to advance upon
one another, and each fire at what time and distance he thought
proper. Col. Laurens expressed his preference of this mode, and
agreed to the proposal accordingly.

They approached each other within about five or six paces, and
exchanged a shot almost at the same moment. As Col. Laurens
was preparing for a second discharge. General Lee declared him-
self wounded. Col. Laurens, as if apprehending the wound to
be more serious than it proved, advanced towards the General
to offer his support. The same was done by Col. Hamilton and
Major Edwards under a similar apprehension. General Lee then
said the wound was inconsiderable ; less than he had imagined

74 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 21.

at the first stroke of tlie ball, and proposed to fire a second time.
This was warmly opposed both by Col. Hamilton and Major
Edwards, who declared it to be their opinion, that the afiair
should terminate as it then stood. But General Lee repeated
his desire, that there should be a second discharge, and Col. Lau-
rens agreed to the proposal. Col. Hamilton observed that, un-
less the General was influenced by motives of personal en-
mity, he did not think the affair ought to be pursued any farther ;
but as Gen. Lee seemed to persist in desiring it, he was too ten-
der of his friend's honor to persist in opposing it. The combat
was then going to be renewed ; but Major Edwards again declar-
ing his opinion, that the affair ought to end where it was. Gen.
Lee then expressed his confidence in the honor of the gentlemen
concerned as seconds, and said he should be willing to comply
with whatever they should coolly and deliberately determine.
Col. Laurens consented to the same.

Col. Hamilton and Major Edwards withdrew, and conversing
awhile on the subject, still concurred fully in the opinion, that for
the most urgent reasons, the affair should terminate as it was
then circumstanced. This decision was communicated to the
parties and agreed to by them, upon which they immediately
returned to town ; General Lee slightly wounded in the right side.

During the interview a conversation to the following purport
passed between General Lee and Col. Laurens. On Col. Hamil-
ton's intimating the idea of personal enmity, as before mentioned
— Gen. Lee declared he had none, and had only met Col. Lau-
rens, to defend his own honor — that Mr. Laurens best knew
whether there was any on his part. Col. Laurens replied, that
General Lee was acquainted with the motives that had brought
him there, which were, that he had been informed from what he
thought good authority, that Gen. Lee had spoken of General
Washington in the grossest and most opprobrious terms of per-
sonal abuse, which he, Col. Laurens, thought himself bound to
resent, as well on account of the relation he bore to General
"Washington, as from motives of personal friendship and respect
for his character. General Lee acknowledged that he had given
his opinion against General Washington's mihtary character to

^T. 22.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 75

]iis particular friends, and might perliaps do it again. He said
every man liad a right to give his sentiments freely of mih-
tary characters, and that he did not think himself person-
ally accountable to C9I. Laurens for what he had done in that
respect. But he said he never had spoken of General Washing-
ton in the terms mentioned, which he could not have done ; as
well because he had always esteemed General "Washington as a
man, as because such abuse would be incompatible with the char-
acter he would ever wish to sustain as a gentleman.

Upon the whole, we think it a piece of justice to the two gen-
tlemen to declare, that after they met, their conduct was strongly
marked with all the politeness, generosity, coolness and firmness,
that ought to characterize a transaction of this nature.

Alexander Hamilton.
Ev. Edwards.

Philadelphia, December 24th, 1778.

DUPLESSLS TO HAMILTON.

11 Janvier, 1779.
Je nai point recu, mon cher Hamilton, les papi6rs que vous
deviez m'envoyer avec Les Signes en chiffres.

Si vons desirez ce dont nous etiens convenu, lorsque je partis
du quartier General, remettez le tout a M. De la Colombo, qui
dans deux mois part pour France. Je vous promets beaucoup
de verite et jeu d' esprit dans la narration.

Dans pen de minutes, nous voguerous ; presentez mon respect
a son Excellence, et mes amities a toute votre famille. Souvenez
vous de tout ce que je vous ai dit a mon depart et soyez homme
de parole.

Adieu, soyez sur que vous avez en moi un bon et vrai ami ;
n'en doutez point, et vous rendrez justice.

Le Chevalier Duplessis.
Col. Hamilton,
Aid-de-CamjD of
His Excellency General Washington,

Head Quarters.

76 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 22. '

HAMILTON TO THE PEESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

Head Quarters, March 14, 1779.

Dear Sir :

Colonel Laurens, who will have the honor of delivering yon
this letter, is on his way to Sonth Carolina, on a project which I
think, in the present situation of affairs there, is a very good
one, and deserves every kind of support and encouragement.
This is, to raise two, three, or four battalions of negroes, with
the assistance of the government of that State, by contributions
from the owners, in proportion to the number they possess. If
you should think proper to enter upon the subject with him, he
will give you a detail of his plan. He wishes to have it recom-
mended by Congress to the State ; and, as an inducement, that
they would engage to take their battalions into Continental pay.

It appears to me, that an expedient of this kind, in the pre-
sent state of Southern affairs, is the most rational that can be
adopted, and promises very important advantages. Indeed, I
hardly see how a sufficient force can be collected in that quarter
without it : and the enemy's operations there are growing
infinitely serious and formidable. I have not the least doubt,
that the negroes will make very excellent soldiers, with proper
management : and I will venture to pronounce, that they cannot
be j)ut in better hands than those of Mr. Laurens. He has all
the zeal, intelligence, enterprise, and every other qualification,
requisite to succeed in such an undertaking. It is a maxim with
some great mihtary judges, that, with sensible of&cers, soldiers
can hardly be too stupid : and, on this principle, it is thought
that the Eussians would make the best soldiers in the world, if
they were under other officers than their own. The King of
Prussia is among the number who maintains this doctrine, and
has a very emphatic saying on the occasion, which I do not ex-
actly recollect. I mention this because I have frequently heard
it objected to the scheme of embodying negToes, that they are
too stupid to make soldiers. This is so &r from appearing to
me a valid objection, that I think their want of cultivation (for

i

^T. 22.] CORRESPONDENCE. 11

tlieir na'tu:[pl faculties are as good as ours), joined to that habit
of subordination wbicb tliey acquire from a life of servitude, will
enable them sooner to become soldiers than our white inhabit-
ants. Let officers be men of sense and sentiment; and the
nearer the soldiers approach to machines, perhaps the better,

I foresee that this project will have to combat much opposi-
tion from prejudice and self-interest. The contempt we have
been taught to entertain for the blacks, makes us fancy many
things that are founded neither in reason nor experience ; and
an unwillingness to part with property of so valuable a kind,
will farnish a thousand arguments to show the impracticability,
or pernicious tendency, of a scheme which requires such sacri-
fices. But it should be considered, that if we do not make use
of them in this way, the enemy probably will ; and that the best
way to counteract the temptations they will hold out, will be, to
offer them ourselves. An essential part of the plan is, to give
them their freedom with their swords. This will secure their
fidelity, animate their courage, and, I believe, will have a good
influence upon those who remain, by opening a door to their
emancipation. This circumstance, I confess, has no small weight
in inducing me to wish the success of the project; for the dic-
tates of humanity, and true policy, equally interest me in favor
of this unfortunate class of men.

While I am on the subject of southern affairs, you will ex-
cuse the liberty I take in saying, that I do not think measures
sufficiently vigorous are pursuing for our defence in that quarter.
Except the few regular troops of South Carolina, we seem to be re-
lying wholly on the militia of that and the two neighboring States.
These will soon grow impatient of service, and leave our affairs
in a miserable situation. No considerable force can be uniformly
kept up by militia ; to say nothing of the many obvious and
well-known inconveniences that attend this kind of troops, I
would beg leave to suggest, Sir, that no time ought to be lost in
making a draught of militia to serve a twelvemonth, from the
States of North and South Carolina and Virginia, But South
Carolina, being very weak in her population of whites, may be
excused from the draught, on condition of furnishing the black

78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.22.

battalions. The two others may furnish about thrte thousand
five hundred men, and be exempted, on that account, from send-
ing any succors to this army. The States to the northward of
Virginia, will be fully able to give competent supplies to the
army here ; and it will require all the force and exertions of
the three States I have mentioned, to withstand the storm which
has arisen, and is increasing in the South.

The troops draughted, must be thrown into battalions, and
of&cered in the best possible manner. The supernumerary
of&cers may be made use of as far as they will go. If arms are
wanted for their troops, and no better way of supplying them is
to be found, we should endeavor to levy a contribution of arms
upon the militia at large. Extraordinary exigencies demand
extraordinary means. I fear this southern business will become
a very grave one.

"With the truest respect and esteem,

I am. Sir, your most obedient servant,

Alex. Hamilton.
His Excell'y John Jay,

President of Congress.

HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.

May 26, 1779.

The General, on reflection, is a little uneasy about the route
you intend to take. He thinks it not quite safe, as the enemy
have troops on Long Island and may easily throw a party across
the Sound, so that you would be in danger of having your
agreeable dreams interrupted, if you should sleep any where from
New Haven to Fairfield.

It is probable, one of the Count's motives in coming this way
may be to see the ruins of those places ; and if he could do it
without risk, it would be desirable ; but he would not probably

Mt. 22.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 79

be at liis ease, if in consequence of it, lie sliould be obliged to
attend the levee of Sir Henry Clinton. This may happen if lie
continues liis intention, unless very good precautions are taken
to avoid the danger. The General recommends it to you, at
least to be very vigilant upon your post, and not to suffer your-
self to be surprised. You will be so good as to let us have
timely notice of your approach, as we shall, at least, meet you at
Fishkill Landing, with boats to take you down to Head Quarters.
I have the honor to be,

Your affectionate and respectful friend,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO OTHO H. WILLIAMS.

«

11th June, 1779.

Deae Williams:

The General sends you four fresh horsemen to enable you to
transmit him intelligence. The General will take the road you
marched to your quarters.

Mind your eye, my dear boy, and if you have an opportunity,
fight hard.

Your friend and servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MAJOK LEE, OR IN HIS ABSENCE, CAPT. McLANE.

July, 1779.

Sir:

There is an encampment of the enemy, or a demonstration of
one, which appears on the other side of the river, considerably
on this side of Tarry Town. You will be pleased in conse-
quence to have patrols kept from this till morning, seven or
eight miles down along the shore and on the roads leading to this

80 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 22.

place on our right. This might be a critical night, and demands
the greatest vigilance.

I am, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton,

Aid-de-Camp.

HENRY LAURENS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 29th July, 1779.

Dear Sir:

In addition to the lines which I troubled you with the day
before yesterday by Colonel, or I should say Doctor McHenry ;
he is an honest man with either, or without any title, permit me
to inform you. I presented to ' Congress this morning, Colonel
Fleury's earnest request for the flag which he had the glory of
lowering at Stony Point, but there was not a single voice heard
in second to my motion. In truth, I had spoken to several of
the members on the subject before the meeting of Congress;
these discovered not only no inclination, but rather an aversion
to parting with so high a testimony of a great and brilliant
victory ; nevertheless, I determined to fulfil my promise ; you
see the success. Fancy often fills up the chasms made by dis-
appointments of this kind ; many of the most celebrated Italian
originals in the cabinets of curious fanciful men in England, are
good copies. Suppose in the present instance the Colonel should
order an accurate likeness of the first flag to be made, and con-
tent himself with that, or that by a very trifling practice of
ambidexterity, he should exchange the copy for the original ; or
suppose he should take a much better and less exceptionable
method for accomplishing his wishes, that he should arm himself
with one of Dunlap's Packets, in which his gallant behavior and
the particular feat of cutting the halliards, stand upon record by
authority of Congress ; this might be kept in the tin case with
commissions and testimonials, answer every purpose of display,

jet.22.] correspondence. 81

and save tlie trouble and expense of lugging sixty or eiglity
yards of bunting round the Globe.

I have executed my commission ; have added my best conso-
latory advice to a disappointed client, and trust the Colonel will
do me the justice to assure himself, my own opinion on the pro-
priety of his suit was not disclosed fully or partially to any body
before I had received a modest denial by a profound silence.

Nothing new from South Carolina, excepting a delegate, who
left Charleston one day before the date of our late letters.
I have the honor to be,

With great esteem and respect,
Dear Sir,

Your ob't and humble serv't,

Henry Laurens.
Col. A. Hamilton, Head Quarters, North River.

COLONEL FLEURY TO HAMILTON.

L'Infantery Camp, 18th August, 1779.

Dear Colonel:

The officers of the two ^_A_ Battalions of I'Infantery, which I
actually command, have applied to me for ceasing to run over
those craggy mountains barefooted, and beg that I would write
to head quarters to have an order from his Excellency to get one
pair of shoes for each ; the shoes they hint to are at New Wind-
sor, and their intention is to pay for.

Do not be so greedy for shoes as for my .blanket, and think
that the most urgent necessity has determined their application ;
they are quite barefooted.

I am very respectfully. Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

L. Fleury.

N. B. As his Excellency could form a very advantageous
idea of our being lucky in shoes by the appearance of the
VOL. I. 6

82 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 22.

officers wlio dined to-day at head quarters, and were not quite
without, I beg you would observe to him, if necessary, that
each company had furnished a shoe for their dressing.

Camp rinfantery, 19th August, 1779.

Si vous savez un mot de M. De La Luzerne dites le moi.

HAMILTON TO JAMES DUANE.

August 28th, 1779.

Dear Sir:

I with pleasure snatch a moment, agreeable to your request,
to inform you of the events which have taken place since you
left us. A York paper of the 24th, announces the arrival of the
Eussell of 74, which parted three days before from Arbuthnot's
fleet, which was of course momently ex^DCCted, Subsequent
intelligence gives us the arrival of the whole fleet. This comes
through different channels, and is beheved ; but we have no
particulars. Wai/^ie is still safe.

Northern news says that Sir George Collier, having appeared
in Penobscot Eiver, jDut our grand fleet to the rout. They
were run ashore, abandoned, and burnt ; the troops and seamen
safe. Colonel Jackson's regiment, which had been sent as a
reinforcement, landed at Portsmouth. This account comes in a
letter from General Gates to Colonel Hay. To counterbalance
the bad in a degree, he tells me three of our Continental frigates
were arrived at Boston with six sail out of ten of the Jamaica
fleet which had fallen into their hands, containing 5000 hdds. of
rum and sugar.

I have the honor to be.

Very faithfully and affectionately.
Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

Hon. Mr. Duane.

jet.22.] correspondence. 83

BARON STEUBEN TO HAMILTON.

August 80th, 1779.

Mr. De la Luzerne desires me to join him on his route, to ac-
company him to head quarters. I shall depart on Tuesday morn-
ing for Providence, where I may require three days to review
the regiments ; after which I shall return immediately to Hart-
ford to join the Minister.

I promised to give you a picture of his new Excellency. He
is about thirty-six years of age, though he appears younger. In
the last war he was aid-de-camp to Marshal Brogiio. He ap-
pears to be a man of solid sense, and less presumptuous than the
people of quality in that country usually are. His manners are
prepossessing ; and they would be more so if he could speak En-
glish. His character appears to me to be good ; and he is less
reserved than European Ministers usually are. His personal ap-
pearance will not displease the ladies of Philadelphia. He is a
young chevalier of Malta, who is not so much imbrowned by his
crusades, but that the American beauties will take pains to teach
him English in a short time. His Secretary, Mr. Marbois, is a
counsellor of Parliament, from Metz in Lorraine — speaks good
English ; and is a man who shows much information and judg-
ment.

Steuben.
Col. Hamilton.

DUANE TO HAMILTON,

Kingston, 4th Sept., 1779.

Dear Sir :

I have spent some days at this place with our Legislature, and
have been happy in finding their zeal for the common cause
undiminished. Every thing which can be asked for the army,
they will most cheerfully grant, and Col. Wadsworth is gone
away perfectly satisfied. It is a circumstance to their honor that

84 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 22.

amidst all their -wants and distresses — flour and carriage have
been supplied at 25 per cent, less than in any part of the Conti-
nent : and that by a law of the State. If it had produced the
effect to be expected from so spirited an example, it must have
had a powerfal influence on our money : but it is to be lamented
that we stood single^ and that our citizens are impoverished by a
sacrifice of a fourth of their produce and labor to little purpose.

Be kind enough to forward the inclosed to Lt. Col. Wash-
ington ; and to present my respectful compliments to his Excel-
lency the Commander-in-Chief and the family ; and believe me
to be, with real esteem and affection.

Dear Col.,

Your most ob't servant,

James Duane.
Col. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.

Sept., 1779.

Dear Baron :

I am at this moment honored with your letter of the 30th
ultimo, and have communicated that part of it which concerns
M. De la Luzerne to the General ; agreeably to which we shall
take our measures on the reception of this private public gentle-
man. We had prepared a party of Cavalry to receive him at
Fishkill, on the supposition that he would set out with an escort
from Boston ; but we have noAv sent orders to the party immedi-
ately to take the route you mention to Hartford, and there place
themselves under your orders.

The General requests you will make his respectful compli-
ments to your Chevalier, and gives you carte blanche to say
every handsome thing you think proper in his name, of the plea-
sure which this visit will give him. I have no doubt that your
portrait, which appears to be executed en maitre, will be found
a just representation of the original ; and if he is as happy as his
predecessor in gaining the esteem and confidence of the men of

^T. 22.] CORRESPONDENCE. 85

tliis country, with so many talents to conciliate the leaders, his

ministry will not be unsuccessful. I augur well for him. Gen.

Washington proposes to meet him as a private gentleman at

Fishkill.

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO DUANE.

Sept. 7, 1779.

My Dear Sir :

I this day received your letter of the 4th, with one inclosed
for Col. Washington, which was immediately forwarded. You
do not mention the receipt of a line from me which I wrote sev-
eral days since, giving you an account of Arbuthnot's arrival.

The current of our intelligence makes the reinforcement with
him amount to about three thousand, mostly recruits and in bad
health ; it is said some preparations are making for an expedi-
tion, and there are various conjectures about the object; some
point to the Southward ; perhaps the true destination is the West
Indies. But, I confess, I should not be surprised, if the enemy
should make a further and vigorous attempt to gain possession
of two or three of the Southern States. If their affairs are so
desperate with respect to alliance as we are told, the object of the
war on their side, from conquest must necessarily change to pa-
cification. The acquisition of two or three of the Southern
States would be a handsome counterpoise to their losses in the
Islands, and would enable them to negotiate with the more credit
and success the ensuing winter.

I am happy to have it in my power to gratify your curiosity
about the Western expedition with the inclosed agreeable ac-
count. It is the substance of a letter from General Sullivan of
the 30th, extracted at Col. Hay's request, for Mr. Lowdon's paper.
The facts are all true, though you will perceive I have given it
a few of the usual embellishments of a newspaper paragraph. I
have not specified the number of Gen Sullivan's wounded ; they

86 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 22.

amount to tliirtj-nine, among which, are Major Titcomb and two
other officers. This is a pleasing and I hope decisive event.
In haste, but with the greatest esteem and regard,
I have the honor to be your most

Obed't servant,
Alex. HAMiLTOisr.

COL. LEE TO HAMILTON".

Sept. 10, 1779.

My Deak Sir :

I wish you would send me a copy of General Washington's
letter of instructions to me — a copy of General Orders on the
subject of the 19th and the sentence of the Court and trial. The
emissaries from the Virginia party have been industrious to
injure my military character.

I am, dear Sir,

Yours sincerely,

Henry Lee.

DUANE TO HAMILTON".

Sept. 10, 1779.

Dear Sir :

Accept my thanks for your favor of the 28th of August, and
your obliging assurances that you will comply with my request.
Unless my anxiety in the events of the campaign had been very
great, I should not have been so unreasonable as to impose this
burthen on any of my much respected friends at head quarters ;
well knowing that they, of all others, have the least leisure. I
find the British reinforcement is arrived. To me it brings no
terror, as I think we have the strongest evidence that it was not
originally intended to exceed four thousand men, and these raw
recruits. You say "Wayne is still safe. Let him keep a sharp
look out ; for I still hold the opinion, that Sir Henry Clinton is

Mt.22.] correspondence. 87

bound in honor to cliastise liim, for one of tlie most daring and
insolent assaults tliat is to be found in the records of chivalry ;
an achievement so brilliant in itself — so romantic in the scale of
British admiration — that none but a hero, inspired by the forti-
tude, instructed by the wisdom, and guided by the planet of
Washington, could, by the exploit at Paulus Hook, have fur-
nished materials in the page of history to give it a parallel. * *
You see from this how much I am at my ease.

To know the value of domestic enjoyment, next to head
quarters, I recommend the chair at the Board of Treasury, for
ten months of a session, in which both our friends and foes are
waging a successful war against the public credit.

Present my affectionate regard to His Excellency, and the
family, and believe me, with every friendly sentiment,

Your affectionate and devoted servant,

James Duane.

HAMILTON TO DUANE.

West Point, Sept. 14, 1779.

My Deae Sir :

I do not recollect whether I said any thing in my last about
the strength of the reinforcement with Arbuthnot. All the
accounts agree that it does not exceed 3000, mostly recruits, and
in very bad health ; it is said more than a thousand died on the
passage, and the greater part of the remainder are journeying
fast to the other world. Disease prevails also in the other parts
of the army and among the inhabitants, more than has been
known at any time, since the enemy has been in possession of
the city. They have been of late making extensive preparations
for embarking troops, and we have just received advice, that
two German and one British regiment sailed from New- York on
the 11th, imder convoy of a Sixty -four. The rumors about the
destination are various. The West Indies, Georgia, Canada, are
all talked of, but the first with most confidence, and is no doubt

88 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 22.

most probable ; our intelligence announces a continuance of the
embarkation.

A vessel lately arrived at Boston from the Cape, reports that
she sailed from that place in company with Count D'Estaing,
with twenty -five sail of the line, and some transports, containing
6000 troops taken in at the Cape, and bound first for Georgia
and afterward farther Northward. She parted with the fleet in
latitude 25, longitude 74. Two other vessels, arived at some
place in Connecticut, pretend that they parted with a French
fleet of men of war, and transports, in the latitude of Bermuda,
steering for this coast. These concurrent accounts are not
entirely unworthy of attention, though I am not disposed to give
them entire credit.

The reduction of the enemy's fleets and armies in this country,
would be the surest method to effect the complete conquest of
the Islands ; and it would be one of the most fatal strokes Great
Britain could receive. The stamina of their Military Establish-
ment are in this country. The ruin of this, and the capture of
their seamen and ships, would be an irrecoverable loss. The
"West Indies would scarcely have any further prospect of succor,
and would be obliged to submit to the power of France almost
without resistance; which might then operate at leisure, aided
by ample supj^lies from this continent, which I believe are the
principal thing wanting.

These reasons may have induced the Count to make us a
visit, during the season of inactivity in the West Indies ; or if
he does not come himself, if by forming a junction with the
Spanish fleet, he can make a detachment this way, and still
maintain a superority for operation in that quarter, this perhaps
will make the event more probable, than on the former supposi-
tion. I have now given you all the intelligence we have, and
have mixed certainties, rumors, and conjectures. You will
extract and believe as much as you think proper. I shall only
add, that I am with the most perfect esteem and attachment,

Dear Sir,

Your most obed't serv't,

A. Hamilton.

iET. 22.] CORRESPONDENCE. 89

The General and family charge me to present their most
affectionate respects. We are to receive the new Minister to-
morrow morning.

DUANE TO HAMILTOJSr.

Manor of Livingston, 16th September, 1779.

My Deak Col. :

I have had no earlier opportunity to acknowledge the
receipt of your very agreeable favor of the 7th instant. To
yours of the ■ I transmitted an answer by the post.

I perfectly agree in opinion with you what the enemy ought
in good feeling to attempt ; but as they uniformly contravene
their best interests, and pursue measures which can produce the
least possible advantage, I conclude they will not j)ersevere in
the system of attacking us in our weakest side — the Southern
States. They may too, by this time, have some reason for
declining what a more enterprising people would hazard at any
event. I think I intimated to you that I should not be surprised
if Count D'Estaing paid a visit to our coast this fall. Eeports
prevail which announce his approach. In that case they will be
as safe in New- York as at Savannah or Charleston ; and it is
no slander to say, that the safety of their army has all along been
their first object. I have many reasons to be anxious for the
expedition against the Six Nations. No less than the safety of
our Northern and Western frontiers depends upon its success ;
to say nothing of the vast national advantages which will be
derived from the reduction of these perfidious savages. By the
way, what will the world think of our spirit and our resources,
when at the very instant our enemies, foreign and domestic, pro-
nounced our immediate ruin from the embarrassment of our
finances, and a series of heavy calamities under which they
af&rmed we were expiring, they see their grand army cooped
up in a garrison ; their forts taken from them by unparalleled
bravery; the country of their Indian allies ravaged and

90 H A M I L T O N ' S W O R K S . [Mr. 22.

destroyed without a single effort for tlieir protection; and a
capital naval armament equipped by a single State, wliich it
required misconduct perhaps, on our part, and certainly the
most hazardous efforts on theirs, to defeat ! I wait with great
impatience for further intelligence from General Sullivan's army.
I am not sufiiciently acquainted with the country to form a clear
idea of their intended route; but if they visit the Senecas
effectually, I suppose we soon shall hear from them at Conode-
seraga, the chief Seneca town, where our State, so long ago as
1732, made a large purchase for a settlement, to keep them in
but which was not prosecuted on account of the turbulent and
faithless temper of the Senecas, and the want of vigor in our
own Government.

I must close, or lose the opportunity by a sloop passing to
New Windsor. Be so good as to pay my m.ost respectful com-
pliments to His Excellency, the family. Generals McDougal,
Greene and Knox, and if he is still safe, to G. Wayne ; and be-
lieve me to be with great regard, and a disposition to do you
every possible service,

Your most obedient servant,

Jas. Du.iNE.
Col. Hamilton.

DUAXE TO HAMILTON.

Manor Livingston, 23d September, 1779.

My Deae Sir:

I am obliged much by your kind attention to me. The con-
dition of our enemies, instead of being formidable, as they pre-
dicted, seems daily to become more feeble ; and instead of those
vigorous and decisive operations, which could alone have re-
vived their declining cause, and kept up the spirits of their in-
fatuated adherents, we see nothing but languor, discontent, and
disgust in their army, their fields, and their councils. Their
king alone, as if literally hardened by a judicial blindness, |)er-
sists in his obstinate folly, and courts the destruction of the

^T.22.] CORRESPONDENCE. . 91

Britisli Empire. If, in addition to all his other wants, distresses,
and misfortunes, sickness has taken a deep root among his troops,
and his partisans ; a decisive period must in all probability be
speedily put to the mad career.

Count d'Estaing seems to have the ball at his feet. His com-
mand of the ocean must be indisputable when he is joined by
the Spanish squadron lately at Havana. He may divide his
force, subdue the West India Islands, and assist us in expelling
or captivating the remnant of our enemies on this continent. I
have, however, some distrust of the Count's planet. His former
ill luck on our coast has led me to think that he is no Felix. I
conclude not much from the advantages he acquired over Biron ;
for that man is marked for the child of misfortune, and I dare
say if his nativity was cast, it would appear that his star fore-
boded decapitation and disgrace. Believe me, I never meddled
with the black art, nor am I over superstitious, and yet I discern
that I am not altogether free from a prejudice which was very
remarkable in the greatest nation of antiquity. Hence it is that
I so anxiously look for the fortunate completion of our western
expedition ; even when a train of favorable events renders it so
highly probable.

Be so good as to present my affectionate and respectful com-
pliments to the General and all the family ; and believe that I
shall be happy in every opportunity to convince you that I am
sincerely.

Your friend and

Most obedient servant,

Jas. Du.iNE.

p. S. How do you like the new Minister of France ? I have
a letter from Gr. Schuyler. In the course of a week I expect
him here, and shall probably accompany him on a visit to the
General and our friends at head quarters.

92 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 22.

HAMILTON TO DUANE.

October 1, 1779.
I am mucli obliged to you, my clear sir, for your two letters
of tlie 16tli and 23d. In haste I snatcli up my pen by an ex-
press going off to tlie Governor, to give you the news as it runs.
The most important and best authenticated is, that Count D'Es-
taing was arrived on the coast of Georgia. The tale runs thus.
We are in possession of a Charleston paper of the 6th ■ of Sep-
tember, which mentions that the Viscount de Fontagnes had
arrived at that place, sent by the Count to announce his ap-
proach, Mr. Mitchel, who transmits the paper, adds, — that by
the express which brought it, Mr. Gerard had received dispatches
from the Count, informing him of his intention to attack the
enemy in Georgia on the 9 th ; that in consequence of this intel-
ligence Mr. Gerard had postponed his voyage a few days to be
the bearer of the event. This, I hope, puts a period to the
danger of the Southern States, for which I could not help having
strong apprehensions, notwithstanding the presumption drawn
from the enemies' past folly against their pursuing any plan
favorable to their interest. I acknowledge the force of the ar-
gument, but I was afraid they might for once blunder upon the
right way. The departure of Cornwallis on the 25th, with the
Grenadiers, Light Infantry, and one British regiment, had in-
creased my horrors on this subject. The nature of this corps
pointed to a temporary service for some important coup de main.
Charleston presented itself as the only object. They would
hardly separate the flower of their troops for any remote and
permanent station. They are continuing their embarkation.'
The accounts we have of the particular corps carry them to
between five and six thousand. I send you a Boston paj)er of
the 23d, containing some interesting European advices.
Your most respectful and affectionate servant,

Alex. Hamilton.

P. S. The General is happy in the hopes you give him of a

^T.22.] CORRESPONDENCE. 93

speedy visit from General Schuyler and yourself, and orders me
to present his respects to both. The family join in every senti-
ment of perfect esteem.

WASHINGTON TO COUNT d'ESTAING.

Head Quarters, West Point, October 7th, 1779.

Sie:

Since my letter to your Excellency on the 4th instant, I have
had the honor of a visit from his Excellency, Monsieur Grerard.
In the conversation we had relative to a co-operation with the
fleet and troops under your command, he expressed his doubts
of its being possible for you to continue such a length of time
as may be essential to the success of the undertaking, and which
alone could justify me in going into those extensive preparations
absolutely necessary on our part, I have therefore appointed
Brigadier General Du Portail and Colonel Hamilton to wait
upon your Excellency as speedily as possible, and explain to
you fully my ideas of the proposed co-operation — the means
we shall be able to employ' — the obstacles we shall have to
encounter on our side — the plans which it may be proper to
pursue, and the measures which are taking and may be taken
by the enemy to counteract them. This will enable your Ex-
cellency to determine what you can with propriety undertake.
I shall only add, that if your Excellency will engage to co-ope-
rate with your whole naval and land force against the enemy's
fleet and army at New- York, till the winter is so far advanced
that the ice will make it impracticable to remain with your fleet
any longer in port, I will bring twenty -five thousand effective
men into the field, and will exert all the resources of the country
in a vigorous and decided co-operation. AYithout this assurance
on the part of your Excellency, it would be inconsistent with
my duty to the public and to the common cause, to incur the
expense and hazard which would be inseparable from the enter-
prise, and the more disagreeable consequences which would

94 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 22.

attend a failure. I flatter myself your Excellency will be fuUy
sensible of tlie weiglit of tbe reasons, on wliicli this declaration
is founded, and will approve the frankness with which it is
made, and with which I have instructed General Du Portail and
Colonel Hamilton to disclose to you every circumstance, and
every consideration with which it is necessary you should be
acquainted. If your determination should be in favor of the
enterprise, I request you will honor me with a line in answer to
this letter, expressive of your ultimate intentions, and that you
will communicate to the gentlemen who now wait upon you, the
previous measures you propose to pursue, and your sentiments
of the most eligible plan of co-operation. I shall act in conse-
quence, till the period arrives for concerting a final and more
determinate plan.

I would now observe to your Excellenc}^, that you may
repose the most implicit confidence in General Du Portail and
Colonel Hamilton, and accordingly I recommend them to your
kind civilities and attention. And, having done this, I have
only to renew the assurances of that sincere attachment and
perfect respect with which I have the honor to be

Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

G. Washington".

HENRY LEE TO HAMILTON.

Mandlopen, October 15th, 1779.

Dear Sir:

I have your letters of the 9th and 13th October. The pilots
have orders one half to proceed to Lewistown, there to wait on
you.

The route I cannot yet determine, as I am not sufficiently
acquainted. They will be sent the shortest, and every assist-
ance given them to expedite their arrival.

Should you leave the Capes before they get there, it would

jet.22.] correspondence. 95

be necessary to dispatcli a courier to cross at Dover and pursue
the Jersey route with directions for them. Yourself or courier
must meet them.

My intelligence corresponds exactly with the information
obtained from Captain Monroe and transmitted you from head
quarters.

Khode Island was not evacuated when my last accounts
arrived, but will be on the Count's appearance. Transports are
ready there for the purpose.

Sandy Hook, the Narrows, and Governor's Island are strongly
fortified. Be assured of my execution of your wishes, and that

I am 3^our friend and servant,

Henry Lee.

Col. Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON AND DU PORTAIL.

Head Quarters, West Point, Oct. 18, 1779.

Gentlemen :

I have been favored with Colonel Hamilton's letter, mention-
ing your arrival early on the 11th, at Philadelphia, and your be-
ing about to set off for Lewistown on the morning on which it
was written.

I have attentively considered the object to which you more
particularly refer, and am now to authorize you (provided the
Count will not determine on a co-operation to the fall extent of
my instructions), to engage the whole force described in my let-
ters to him, comprehending the Continental troops and militia,
in such an enterprise against the enemy's shipping, as the Count
and you may agree to undertake. In a word, I will aid him in
every plan of operations against the enemy at New- York, or
Rhode Island, in the most effectual manner that our strength and
resources will admit. He has nothing more to do, therefore, than
to propose his own plan, if time will not admit him to accede to

96 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 22.

ours ; weighing tliorouglily, consequences of expense and disap-
pointment.

Inclosed is some intelligence received from Elizabetlitown
since your departure. You will observe the preparations of the
enemy for throwing every possible obstruction in the Count's
passage.

A chain of alarm ships are stationed in the Sound, to com-
municate the first approach of the Count's fleet to the garrison
at Rhode Island. This they can propagate in a few minutes by
signal guns. In a letter from General Gates of the 13th instant,
he advises me of the arrival of the fleet, which some time ago
sailed from New- York. It amounts to fifty-six sail, and appear-
ed to be only in a set of ballast. This was confirmed by one of
the vessels which fell into our hands for a few hours. The opin-
ion is, that it is designed to take ofi' the garrison.

General Gates makes the marine force at Newport, one fifty,
and a thirty-two gun frigate. The Refugee and Wood fleet,
about thirty-seven sail, mostly armed, at the head of which is the
Restoration, late the Oliver Cromwell, of twenty-two guns. One
frigate is also taken notice of in the fleet from New- York.

Should the operations against New- York, in either case, be
undertaken, it will be of the utmost consequence to block up the
garrison at Rhode Island. You will consider the propriety of
suggesting to the Count, the detaching of a superior sea force for
this purpose, previous to his approaching the Hook. For, should
the measure be deferred till his arrival there, it may not then be
possible to prevent their junction with the army at New- York,
as the notice can be so very suddenly transmitted by means of
the signals which they have established.

Every proper attention has been given to preparing the neces-
sary number of fascines, and suchother materials as may be requi-
site in this quarter. Fascines, gabions, etc., are also held in
readiness at Providence in case of an operation against Newport.
I had thought of the fire ships, and have taken order in the mat-
ter. I do not, however, choose to go to the great expense they
must run us into, till something is decided with His Excellency

^T.22.] CORRESPONDENCE. 97

Count D'Estaing ; but every thing relative shall be provided, so

as to occasion no delay when such, matters become necessary.

I am, Gentlemen,

Your most obedient servant,

G. Washington.
Brigadier-General Du Portail.

Lieutenant-Colonel Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON AND DU PORTAIL.

West Point, October 21, 1779.

Gentlemen :

In my letters of the tenth and eighteenth, I transmitted all
the intelligence I had obtained respecting the enemy, from the
time of your departure to those two periods : and by the present
conveyance, I inclose you an extract of a letter from Major-Gen-
eral Gates, of the 15th. By this you will perceive, he was fully
persuaded that the enemy are now preparing to evacuate Rhode
Island ; and he expected, from his advices, they would do it on
Monday or Tuesday last.

Whether the event has taken place, or not, as yet, is a matter
I cannot determine, having received no information since upon
the subject. But admitting it has not, there is no room to doubt
that they have all things in a condition to do it, on the shortest
notice, whenever they shall think the exigency of their affairs
requires it. It is also equally certain, that they continue to carr}^
on their fortifications for the defence of New- York with the ut-
most industry and perseverance ; and apj^ear to be providing for
the most obstinate resistance. Indeed, as their reduction would
be attended with the most alarming and fatal consequences to
their nation, nothing else can be reasonably expected. The mo-
ment I hear the troops have left Rhode Island, I will advise you.

The garrisons at Verplanck's and Stony Points, still remain ;
but from the concurring accounts of deserters, the heavy baggage
and stores, except about eighteen or twenty rounds for each can-
non, are embarked, and all matters are putting in train for an

VOL. I. 7

98 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 22.

evacuation, in case events make it necessary. The deserters add,
as a circumstance of confirmation, that Sir Henry Clinton was up
at the posts about eight days ago ; and that, from that time, they
have totally declined carrying on any works.

Having given you the substance of the intelligence received
since my last, I am led (from the vast magnitude of the object
which carried you from head quarters, and the very interesting
consequences it may involve, all of which I am persuaded will
occur to your consideration) to remark, that the Count's entering
New- York Bay with his fleet, must be the basis and groundwork
of any co-operation that can be undertaken by us, either for the
reduction of the enemy's whole force, or the destruction of their
shipping only. Every thing will absolutely depend upon it, in
either case ; as, without it, and a free and open communication
up and down the rivers, and in the Sound, which cannot be effect-
ed and maintained in any other way, we could not j^ossibly
undertake any operations on Long Island, as our supplies of pro-
visions and stores could only be obtained by water.

This point, I am certain, would have your due consideration ;
but it appearing to me the hinge, the one thing upon which all
others must rest, I could not forbear mentioning it. The circum-
stance of the season now, the expenditure of wood, and the ne-
cessity of su]3j)lying it, etc., will of course be fully attended to,
according to their importance : and I have only to add, from a
desire of preventing a misconception by either side, if any co-
operation is agreed on, that the terms and conditions may be
explicitly understood. And whether it shall extend to an at-
tempt to reduce the enemy's whole force, or only to the destruc-
tion of their shipping ; your engagements will provide for the
continuance of the Count's fleet, to secure our retreat, and the
removal of our stores from Long and York Islands, if, unhappily,
it should be found, on experiment, that neither is practicable,
and we should be obliged to abandon the enterprise.
i am, Gentlemen,

With great regard and respect.
Your most obedient servant,

G. Washington.

vEt. 22.] CORRESPONDENCE. 99

P. S. 1-4 after three, P. M. Tliree deserters have just come

in, who left Verplanck's Point last night. They all corroborate

the accounts, by a detail of circumstances, of the preparations to

evacuate both that and Stony Point. I have no doubt that things

will at least be held in readiness.

G. Washington.

After dispatching the above, I received a letter from Major-
General Heath, of which the following is a copy.

" I now have the pleasure to acquaint your Excellency, that
the enemy have left both Points, having burnt and destroyed
their works."

General Du Portail.

Colonel Hamilton.
Mandeville's, Oct. 21, 1779. 4 o'clock, P. M.

HENRY LEE TO HAMILTON.

Monmouth, Oct. 22cl, 1779.

My Dear Sir :

I received your two letters announcing your object, route
and wishes. I sent to you at Lewistown two pilots; one of
them Captain Schuyler, from whom you may know more than
from any other, as he was particularly active.

The enemy's strength at the Hook consists in two 6-±'s, the
Europa and Kussell; the Eaisonable, Kenown, Eoebuck and
Romulus.

Besides these they have ten frigates and some armed schooners.
They have sunk ten hulks in the outer channel, and have more
ready to be sunk; some of those sunk have got afloat and
reached shore.

They have also two fire ships. My latest accounts from
New-York, mention that all was attention and labor among the
troops. Works are erecting on both sides the Narrows and on
Governor's Island.

100 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 22.

Head quarters in Long Island. Evacuation of Ehode Island
not yet taken place. A vessel got in on the 16tli from Georgia,
since whose arrival, the two 64's, and the Eenown have fallen
down to New- York.

The troops have embarked from the Hook and gone to the
city.

I construe these movements as indicatory of the Count's
withdrawal from the coast. Do write me whenever you may
hear certainly from the fleet. You will regularly be informed of
what passes here.

I am, dear Sir,

Yours affectionately,

Henry Lee.
Col. Hamilton.

MITCHELL TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 23d October, 1779,

Sir:

Your favor of the 18th instant from Lewistown, came duly
to hand, and in consequence of your request, expresses have
been stationed at proper distances on the road between this and
Lewistown.

Yours of the 19th from Egg Harbor, came to hand at half-
past two, and yours of the 2 2d instant, from Col. Westcoat's,
came to hand at three o'clock this afternoon.

I shall only observe in answer to your last note, which came
unsealed, that you have met with no delays from me, since your
arrival in this city from His Excellency's head quarters, nor
shall any delays or neglects be given you by the Department
that I can prevent.

Your letter to the President of Congress is delivered. I
have shown him yours to me. Congress is now sitting, but I shall
wait till they rise in order that his dispatches may go Avith this
conveyance; three expresses set out with this to attend any
orders you may have to dispatch. If you find more necessary,
you shall have them.

JEt.22.] correspondence. 101

I had letters from His Excellency yesterday, but none for
you or General Portail. This day letters came from Charles-
ton, which mention that all the British forces in Carolina.and
Georgia had got to Savannah, where they were invested by the
Count D'Estaing, and the American forces. He had carried his
ajjproaches within four hundred yards of their works, and ex-
pected they would surrender in two or three days; the
Experiment taken, and several other ships and their naval force
destroyed : but I expect the President will give you a more par-
ticular account ; those accounts are by jorivate letters of good
authority. Mr. Laurens was my informant.

I have sent you per the express, Mr, Trueman Kirk of
O'Mooney, four horses, the best I can procure in so short a time ;
one of them is a horse you left here. It is with great difficulty
horses can be procured sufficient to do the public business.

The President of Congress informs me he cannot write at
present. The accounts from the southward are as late as the 4:th
instant, on which day the Count's batteries were to open.

I am with esteem and compl'ts to General Portail — Sir,

Your most obed't servant,

Jno. Mitchell,

B. Q. Mst.

A letter from His Excellency for you and Gen. Portail was
sent to Lewistown on the 19th iust., but suppose it will be re-
turned ; if so, no time shall be lost in sending it.
Col. Alexander Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON AND DU PORTAIL.

Head Quarters, West Point, October 25, 1779.

Gentlemen :

I have just received a letter from Colonel Hamilton, men-
tioning your having changed your position, at Lewistown, for
that of Little Egg Harbor ; and that you would write me more
fully on your arrival at the Furnace.

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 22.

In my last I informed you tliat tlie enemy had evacuated
both their posts at King's Ferry ; since which, no alteratipn has
tak€n place that has come to my knowledge. Things at Ehode
Island remain in the same situation ; at least I have received no
accounts, either confirming or contradicting my former intelli-
gence.

I am, Gentlemen, your most ob't,

Humble servant,

Gr. Washington.
Gen. Du Portail.

Colonel Hamilton.

DU PORTAIL AND HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Great Egg Harbor Landing, October 26, 1779.

Sir:

We are honored with two letters from your Excellency, of
the 10th and 21st ; to the contents of which we beg leave to
assure you of our strictest attention.

That of the 18th has not yet come to hand. It is not im-
probable, it has gone round by Lewistown, which has occasioned
the delay.

Colonel Hamilton wrote to your Excellency from Philadel-
phia, acquainting you with our arrival there, and our intention
to proceed to Lewistown, Cape Henlopen, and from Great Egg
Harbor, communicating our progress since, and our determina-
tion to establish ourselves at Bat Stove Furnace. We have
since fixed on this place, about forty-four miles from the ex-
tremity of Cape May (eighteen miles short of the Furnace, which
we found to be more remote than had been represented), and, as
far as we have been able to learn, from 100 to 110 miles of Sandy
Hook, and about 50 from Philadelphia. Your Excellency will
easily perceive the reason of our choosing this station. It did
not appear to us, from our inquiries in PhiladeljDhia, to be a point
well ascertained, that the fleet would stoj) at the Delaware ; and
the time which had elapsed, made it more possible, if the Count

^T. 22.] CORRESPONDENCE. 103

should be determined to prosecute any farther operations on the
continent, that he would not lose time bj a procedure of this
sort, but might content himself with sending some transports,
under escort of a few frigates, to receive the provisions for the
fleet, and proceed himself directly on to the Hook. On this
supposition, our position at Lewistown was entirely ineligible.
The distance at which we were from the city, as well as from
the Hook ; the delays that would consequently attend our intel-
ligence from every quarter; the difficulty and impossibility,
sometimes, of traversing the Bay, made our first situation incon-
venient in every respect, in the event of the fleet's proceeding
immediately to the Hook. These considerations induced us to
cross the Delaware, and take the position at which we now are ;
where, or in the vicinity, we propose to remain till the arrival of
the Count ; till intelligence from him decides the inutility of a
longer stay; or till we receive your Excellency's orders of
recall.

We have now a better relation to the different points in
which we are interested, and have taken the necessary precau-
tions to gain the earliest notice of whatever happens. We have
stationed expresses at the pitch of the Cape, and have established
a regular communication with Major Lee, and with the city. If
the fleet should appear off the Delaware, we can be there in
twelve hours after its first appearance ; and if at the Hook, in
less than four days; provided Major Lee is punctual in convey-
ing the intelligence, and the expresses, from either side, in bring-
ing it.

By recent information from Philadelphia (though not quite
so distinct and accurate as we could wish), we find, that so late
as the fourth of this month, the Count, as yet, was to open his
batteries against the enemy at Savannah. The time that will
probably intervene between this and the final reduction ; the
re-embarkation of the Count's troops ; the dispositions for sailing,
and his arrival on this coast ; may, we fear, exhaust the season
too much to permit of the co-operation to which our mission re-
lates.

We do not, however, despair ; for if the Count has been fully

104 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 22.

successful to the southward, and should shortly arrive (which
may be the case), the enterprise may possibly go on.

In a letter from Major Lee, of the 22d, he informs us, that a
vessel from Georgia arrived on the 16th ; since which the two
sixty-fours, and the Eenown, which were at the Hook, had fallen
down towards New- York ; and the troops at the Hook had em-
barked and gone to the cit}^ At first sight, this account alarmed
us, and made us apprehensive that the enemy had received some
favorable advices from the southward, which put them out of
danger, and superseded the necessity of continuing their prepa-
rations for defence. But, on further reflection, we think it more
probable, that this is only a change of disposition ; and that
finding, on closer examination, they would be unable to defend
the Hook, they had determined to relinquish the attempt.

This seems the more likely, as Major Lee mentions, that a
part of the hulks, sunk in the channel, had gotten afloat and
drifted ashore.

To this experience of the difiiculty of obstructing the channel,
may, perhaps, be attributed the change we suppose. And we
are confirmed in this conjecture, by the evacuation of the two
posts at King's Ferry, which appears, by your Excellency's
letter, to have taken place on the 21st, five days after the sup-
posed arrival of the vessel from Georgia ; a proof that they had
not received information of any decisive good fortune on their
side, or ill fortune on oui's; and that they persisted in their
defensive plan. We are persuaded, too, that their exultation
would have given wings to any good news they might have
received, and that it would have reached us before this. "Were
the season less advanced, we should regret this change of disposi-
tion ; because we believe the attempt to defend the entrance of
the Hook would have been fruitless ; and it might have thrown
a part of their ships, and of their troops, into our hands, in
the first instance, which could not fail to facilitate the succes-
sive operations.

But, at this late period, it may rather be an advantage.
To force the passage, might have required land operations
against the Hook, which would lose time and expose the fleet

^T.22.] CORRESPONDENCE. 105

to the hazard of winds, which would have rendered its situa-
tion critical. Now, the fleet may probably enter the bay, on
its first approach, and be in security : and the whole operation
will be brought to a point, and may demand less time for its
accomplishment.

As a large number of fascines, ready for use, appear to us
essential to any operations that may be undertaken, we presume
your Excellency has been preparing, and will continue to pre-
pare as many as possible. We beg leave to suggest the utility
of having, at the same time, a sufficient number of gabions and
sand bags. Of the former. Colonel Grouvion, if your Excellency
thinks proper, may be charged with the constructing : the latter
may be made under the care of the Quarter-Master at Phila-
delphia, Several thousands may be necessary. The usual
dimensions are fifteen or eighteen inches long, and twelve
Avide. If, notwithstanding the advices from Major Lee, any
thing by land is to be attempted against the Hook, these will be
peculiarly useful on such a flat, sandy spot; and, indeed, it
would be impracticable to construct batteries, in any reasonable
time, without them.

We have the honor to be,

Sir, your most obedient and

Humble servants,

A. Hamilton'.

Du Poet AIL.
His Excellency Gen. Washington.

HENRY LEE TO HAMILTON.

October 29, 1779.

My Dear Sir:

I have nothing new since my last ; only a report aboard the
Navy at the Hook, purporting two naval actions, the one in the
English Channel between the grand fleets: the second in the
West Indies : in the former the British were worsted ; the Ar-

106 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 22.

dent, man-of-war, Admiral Gambier, sunk, and tlie fleet drove
into two different ports where thej were blocked np ; in tlie lat-
ter tke French were much damaged, and four of their capital ships
taken,

Lt. Col. Simcoe has made lately a very extraordinary tour
to Middlebrook : he burnt the boats, magazine of forage, court-
house, meeting-house, took two officers at Mr. Vanhorn's, and lost
himself near Brunsmck. The party got safe to South Amboy.
I send you a letter from head quarters.

Adieu.

Yours affectionately,

Heney Lee.
Col, Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON AND DU PORTAIL.

Head Quarters, West Point, November 1, 1779.

Gentlemen :

I have this day been favored with yours of twenty -sixth ult.,
informing me of your removal to Great Egg Harbor, My letter
of the eighteenth, which had not reached you, went, as you sup-
posed, by way of Philadelphia ; and, lest any accident may have
happened to it, I inclose you a duplicate. Mine of the thirtieth
ultimo, which went through Major Lee, informed you of the
evacuation of Ehode Island. I have since received a letter of
the twenty-first ultimo, from my confidential correspondent in
New- York. He informs me that Eawdon's corps, the 67th, and
some of the artillery, were then embarked : and it was said, and
generally believed, that they were bound to Halifax, That the
Eobuste, of seventy-four guns, had arrived the twentieth, from
Halifax; and that a number of transports were taking in water
and ballast. He gave me nothing further worth communicating.

You will find, by the letter of the 18th, that a provision of
fascines and gabions was making ; and I shall give directions to-
the Quarter-Master-General, to provide a quantity of sand bags.

I am sorry to inform you, that Colonel La Eodiere died on

Mt.22.] correspondence. 10*7

Saturday last. He is to be buried this day with the honors due

to his rank.

I am, with great esteem, Gentlemen,

Your most obedient servant,

G. Washington.

P. S. Upon a presumption that Colonel Laurens will be on
board the fleet, the inclosed are sent to you.

Brigadier-General Du Portail.
Colonel Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO DU PORTAIL AND HAMILTON.

f

Head Quarters, West Point, November 2, 1779.

Gentlemen :

Since mine of yesterday, I have received another letter from
my confidential correspondent in New- York, dated the twenty-
ninth ultimo. He informs me, that the fifty-seventh regiment,
Eawdon's corps, and the artillery mentioned in his last, were
to sail on that day for Halifax; and with them, all the heavy
ships of war, except the Buropa. The Daphne frigate, with Sir
George Collier and Colonel Stewart on board, was to sail for
England the same day. He says the pilots reported, that it was
now difiicult to bring a vessel into the Hook, on account of the
hulks sunk there. (By this it would seem that some of them
still remained upon the shoals.) He says the transports men-
tioned in his last, as taking in water and ballast, only carried it
down to the ships at the Hook. The Eainbow, of forty guns,
had arrived from Halifax. He informs me of no other circum-
stances that materially relate to affairs in New- York. He says
a packet arrived from England on the twenty-third October.
The accounts brought by her seemed to alarm the tories very
much. It was reported that the Ardent, of sixty -four guns, had
been taken, and the English fleet chased into Portsmouth by the
combined fleet, which remained off" that place several days. He

108 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 22.

mentions tliese matters as current reports, and adds, tliat a fleet
of victuallers were to sail from Cork the latter end of Septem-
ber, and another of store ships and merchantmen, from Spithead,
about the same time.

I am, with great regard, Gentlemen,

Your most obedient servant

G. AVashington.

The cajDture of the Ardent is confirmed by a New-York
paper of the twentieth ultimo.

General Du Portail and Colonel Hamilton.

DU PORTAIL TO HAMILTON".

Samedi Matin, 1779.

MoN Cher Colonel:

J'ai beaucoup rev6 depuis hier a I'affaire de Caroline, et je
trouve toujours dans ma tete les memes choses, la meme facon
de voir, les memes dispositions, que je vais vous expliquer en
deux mots. Je serais certainement bien aise d'aller en Caroline
pendant cet hiver, mais je ne voudrais pas absolument le de-
mander, parceque, si je le demande, on ne me saura plus de
gr6, que je n'irai pas avec le meme agreement, que je ne pourrai
faire aucune espece d'arrangements qui me donne le moyen
d'etre vraiment utile la bas, qu'il me vaudra voyager a mes de-
pens, ce que I'etat de mes finances ne me permet pas, etc., etc.
Je ne desire done y aller que dans le cas ou le Congres ayant
par exemple assez bonne opinion de moi pour croire que dans le
moment critique je puis etrc n^cessaire dans le pays, il penserait
de long meme ou avertis par quelqu'un a m'y envoyer, ne
pourriez vous done pas mon cher Colonel, a propos de la de-
mande du General "Washington au Congres, observer, comme de
vous mime, au General, que si je voulais aller passer mon hiver
en Caroline cela serait peut-etre fort avantageuese. Si le Gen-
eral le jugeait ainsi, probablement, il vous demanderait si vous

^T. 22.] CORRESPONDENCE. 109

croyez que cela me convient d'ailleiirs et me fit plaisir. Sur cela
vous poussiez lui repondre que vous en etes persuade, et que je
vous ai fait entrevoir meme que dans cette circonstance, je desi-
rerais que le General et le Congres jugeassent a propos de m'en-
voyer dans le sud, mais jDOur le moment de crise seulement,
souliaitant de revenir pour ses ordres au commencement de la
Congres prochaine. Le General prendrait done la resolution
pour cela de me donner les ordres necessaires, si je n'ai besoin
que des siens, ou s'il pense que le Congres doit intervenir, d'ex-
pliquer au Congres sa facon de penser a cet egard. Ceci suffit a
quelqu'un d'aussi intelligent que vous, pour negocier sous le
pied ou je desire, ainsi je laisse le reste a faire a votre amitie.
Que cette lettre d'ailleurs soit un secret entre nous, de quelque
faQon que I'afiaire tourne ; mais je desire absolument d'etre
gTatifie en ceci. Adieu je vous attends a diner et j'ai 1'h.onneur
d'etre.

General du Poetail.
Col. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO LAURENS.

Cold in my professions — warm in my friendships — I wish,
my dear Laurens, it were in my power, by actions, rather than
words, to convince you that I love you. I shall only tell you,
that till you bid us adieu, I hardly knew the value you had
taught my heart to set upon you. Indeed, my friend, it was
not well done. You know the opinion I entertain of mankind ;
and how much it is my desire to preserve myself free from par-
ticular attachments, and to keep my happiness independent of
the caprices of others. You should not have taken advantage
of my sensibility, to steal into my affections without my consent.

But as you have done it, and as we are generally indulgent to
those we love, I shall not scruple to pardon the fraud you have
committed, on one condition ; that for my sake, if not for your
own, you will continue to merit the partiality which you have so
artfully instilled into me.

110 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 22.

I have received your two letters : one from Philadelpliia, tlie
other from Chester. I am pleased with your success so far ; and
I hope the favorable omens that precede your application to the
Assembly, may have as favorable an issue ; provided the situa-
tion of affairs should require it, which I fear will be the case.
But, both for your country's sake and for my own, I wish the
enemy may be gone from Georgia before you arrive ; and that
you may be obliged to return, and share the fortunes of your
old friends. In respect to the commission which you received
from Congress, all the world must think your conduct perfectly
right. Indeed, your ideas upon this occasion seem not to have
their Avonted accuracy ; and you have had scruples, in a great
measure, without foundation. By your appointment as Aid-de-
Camp to the Commander-in-Chief, you had as much the rank of
Lieutenant-Colonel as any officer in the line. Your receiving a
commission as Lieutenant-Colonel, from the date of that aj^point-
ment, does not, in the least, injure or interfere with one of them;
unless, by virtue of it, you are introduced into a particular regi-
ment, in violation of the right of succession, which is not the
case at present, neither is it a necessary consequence. As you
were going to command a battalion, it was proper you should
have a commission ; and if this commission had been dated
posterior to your appointment as Aid-de-Camp, I should have
considered it derogatory to your former rank, to mine, and to
that of the whole corps. The only thing I see wrong in the
affair is this : Congress, by their conduct, both on the former
and present occasion, appear to have intended to confer a privi-
lege, an honor, a mark of distinction, a something upon you,
which they withheld from other gentlemen of the family. This
carries with it an air of preference, which, though we can all
truly say we love your character and admire your military
merit, cannot fail to give some of us uneasy sensations. But in
this, my dear, I wish you to understand me well. The blame,
if there is any, falls wholly upon Congress. I repeat it, your
conduct has been perfectly right, and even laudable. You re-
jected the offer when you ought to have rejected it; and you
accepted it when you ought to have accepted it ; and let me add,

^T.22.] CORRESPONDENCE. Ill

witli a degree of over-scrup-olous delicacy. It was necessary to
your project. Your project was tlae public good ; and I should
have done the same. In hesitating, you have refined on the re-
finements of generosity.

There is a total stagnation of news here. Gates has refased
the Indian command. Sullivan is come to take it. The former
has lately given a fresh proof of his impudence, his folly, and
]^jg ***^-^^-^-**_ "pj^g j^Q great matter ; but a pecuharity in the

case prevents my saying what.

Fleury shall be taken care of. All the family send love. In
this, join the General and Mrs. Washington ; and what is best,
it is not in the style of ceremony, but sincerity.

LAUEENS TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, December 12, 1779.

My Dear Hamilton:

Upon my arrival here yesterday evening, I communicated
the intelligence received from General Wayne, to the President
of Congress and the French minister. The latter surprised me
greatly, by informing me, that only one 74 gun ship of the
Count De Grasse's division, and the Fier Eodrigue, had arrived
at Chesapeake. I am at a loss how to account for the absence
of the rest. They have not been within the reach of a superior
enemy's force : no storm has happened, within our knowledge,
to drive them to any considerable distance from the coast. It
cannot rationally be supposed that the Count has received coun-
termanding orders, and that a capital ship of the line, together
with a very valuable warlike merchantman, is to be sacrificed.
Be the case as it may, all hopes of passing our reinforcement for
the southern department, by sea, are out of the question. The
North Carohna Brigade, after profiting by the navigation of the
Delaware as far as it would serve them, marched to the head of

112 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^x. 22.

Elk. Tlience tliey proceed, by water, across tlie Chesapeake,
and up to Petersburg]!, where they are to be overtaken by their
wagons, and pursue the rest of their way by the middle road to
Charleston. This is the route marked by the Board of War,
and a Committee of Congress appointed to confer with them ;
and I believe it was recommended by Doctor Burke, one of the
North Carolina delegates lately from that country. It is intend-
ed that the Virginians should pursue the same as far as Peters-
burgh, where they are to take an upper road. In this route we
do not avail ourselves of Albemarle Sound. The going up the
river to Petersburgh will certainly be tedious ; and four hundred
miles land march is to be executed from thence. I communica-
ted these objections to Mr. Matthews, and proposed the route
which the General pointed out ; but the poverty of the country
in provision, and the means of transporting the baggage of the
troops, he said, would outweigh the advantages of the water car-
riage and direct road. I am by no means satisfied with the pres-
ent arrangement, when I reflect how much more rapidly the
British may convey their reinforcements : but all the inquiries I
have made hitherto, have produced nothing favorable to our
plan. Indeed, in the present unguarded state of the Chesapeake,
the British might render the passage even of that ineligible.

Mr. Serle, a member of Congress, who arrived in town last
night from the neighborhood of Major Leigh's post, asserts, that
no transports were at the Hook on Wednesday. Whether the
British operations are delayed by false rumors of Count Be
Grasse's division ; or whether they have heard, as we have here,
that Count D'Estaing was still on the coast the twentieth of No-
vember, I cannot decide : but one would be inclined to think,
that they are disconcerted, either by false intelligence, or a total
defect of it. I entreat you, my dear friend, to transmit me the
earliest and most accurate relation that can be obtained, of the
British movements ; and enlighten me with your observations
upon them. Present my respects and love to our excellent Gen-
eral and the family. May you enjoy all the pleasure, moral and
physical, which you promise yourself in winter quarters, and be
as happy as you deserve.

tEt. 22.] CORRESPONDENCE. 113

Tell the Doctor I shall commit his darling to the press this

morning.

Yours, ever,

John Laukens.
Colonel Hamilton.

LAURENS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, December 18, 1779.

My Dear Hamilton:

On my arrival in town, I was informed by the President, that
Congress had suspended the business of appointing a secretary
to their minister plenipotentiary at Versailles, until my return,
in hopes that I might still be prevailed upon to accept the office.
I replied, that I thought my letter upon the subject sufficiently
explicit ; and assured him of my sincere desire to be excused
from serving in that capacity at the present juncture of our af-
fairs.

He urged the unanimity of the choice with respect to me ;
the difficulty of uniting the suffrages of all parties, in case of a
new nomination ; and the advantages of this union. Several
delegates of Congress declared to me the embarrassment of Con-
gress since I had declined. One, in particular, suggested to me
his apprehension of interest being made for a late delegate of
New- York, who is candidate for the office, and to whom the
world, in general, allows greater credit for his abilities than his
integrity ; and said, " he was determined to oppose him with all
his influence." When I quitted town the sixteenth, these mat-
ters crowded into my mind. I fell into a train of serious reflec-
tions and self-examination ; endeavored to investigate whether I
had acted consonantly to the aalov xai aya&ov, and fulfilled the
duties of a good citizen in this transaction. In fine, I agitated
the grand question. Whether a citizen has a right to decline any
office to which his countrymen appoint him; upon what that
right is founded ; and whether it existed in my case.

After undergoing the severest conflict that ever I experi-
VOL. I. 8

114 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 22.

enced; sometimes reproacliing, sometimes justifying myself;
pursuing my journey, or turning retrograde ; as the arguments
on the one side or the other appeared to prevail ; I determined
that I had been deficient in the duties of a good citizen. I re-
turned to Philadelphia ; communicated my sentiments to the
President and two other members ; and declared to them, that I
thought it incumbent on me, in the first place, to recommend a
person equally qualified in point of integrity, and much better
in point of ability. That if, .unhappily, they could not agree
upon Colonel Hamilton, and that I was absolutely necessary to
exclude a dangerous person, or to prevent pernicious delays, I
should think it my duty to obey the orders of CongTcss. The
persons now in nomination, are. Colonel Hamilton, Mr. Lovell,
Mr. Gr. Morris, Major Stewart. I am sorry that you are not bet-
ter known to Congress. Great stress is laid upon the probity
and patriotism of the person to be employed in this commission.
I have given my testimony of you in this, and the other equally
essential points.

I am sorry to inform you, that the North Carolina brigade
had not quitted Elk the sixteenth ; having been detained by the
ice.

I am sorry to write you, just as I am on the wing. Be so
good as to thank Tilghman for his letter. Inform him, from Mr.
Mitchell, that his habihments are making.

My love as usual. Adieu.

John Laurens.

Colonel Hamilton.

LAURENS TO HAMILTON.

Charleston, 1779.

Ternant will relate to you how many violent struggles I have
had between duty and inclination — how much my heart was
with you, while I appeared to be most actively employed here.
But it appears to me that I should be inexcusable in the light of

^T. 22.] CORRESPONDENCE. 115

a citizen, if I did not continue my utmost eflforts for carrying
the plan of tlie black levies into execution, while there remains
the smallest hopes of success.

Our army is reduced to nothing almost, by the departure of
the Virginians. Scott's arrival will scarcely restore us to our an-
cient number. If the enemy destine the reinforcements from
Great Britain to this quarter, as in policy they ought to do, that
number will be insufficient for the security of our country. The
Governor, among other matters to be laid before the House of
Assembly, intends to propose the completing our continental bat-
talions by drafts from the militia. This measure, I am told, is so
unpopular that there is no hope of succeeding in it. Either this
must be adopted, or the black levies, or the State will fall a vic-
tim to the improvidence of its inhabitants.

The House of Kepresentatives have had a longer recess than
usual, occasioned by the number of members in the field. It
will be convened, however, in a few days. I intend to qualify,
and make a final effort. Oh that I were a Demosthenes ! The
Athenians never deserved a more bitter exprobation than our
countrymen.

General Clinton's movements, and your march in consequence,
made me wish to be with you. If any thing important should
be done in your quarter,' while I am doing daily penance here,
and making useless harangues, I shall execrate my stars, and be
out of humor with the world. I entreat you, my dear friend,
write me as freely as circumstances will permit, and enlighten
me upon what is going forward.

Adieu. My love to our colleagues. I am afraid I was so
thoughtless as to omit my remembrances to Gibbs. Tell him
that I am always his sincere well-wisher, and hope to laugh with
him again ere long.

Adieu again. Yours ever,

John Laurens.

116 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 23.

HAMILTON TO liOBERT MOREIS.

Sir:

Tlie present conjuncture is by all allowed to be peculiarly-
critical. Every man of reflection employs his thoughts about
the remedies proper to be applied to the national disorders ; and
every one, from a partiality to his own ideas, wishes to convey
them to those who are charged with the management of affairs.
The channel of the public papers, commonly made use of for the
purpose, appears to me exceptionable on several accounts. It not
only restrains a freedom of discussion, from the extreme delicacy
of the subject; but the discussion itself increases the evil, by
exposing our weak sides to the popular eye, and adding false
terrors to those well-founded apprehensions which our situation
authorizes.

Instead of pursuing this method, I prefer addressing myself
to a member of that body, in whose power alone it is, by well-
digested system, to extricate us from our embarrassments. I
have pitched upon you, from a personal knowledge of your abil-
ities and zeal. If I offer any thing new and useful, I am per-
suaded you will endeavor to turn it to advantage. If the contrary
is the case, I am, at least, doing no harm. I shall only have had
the trouble of writing, and you of reading, a few useless pages.

The object of principal concern is the state of our currency.
In my opinion, all our speculations on this head have been
founded in error. Most people think, that the depreciation might
have been avoided, by provident arrangements in the beginning,
without any aid from abroad : and a great many of our sanguine
politicians, till very lately, imagined the money might still be
restored by expedients within ourselves. Hence the delay in
attempting to procure a foreign loan.

This idea proceeded from an ignorance of the real extent of
our resources. The war, particularly in the first periods, required
exertions beyond our strength, to which neither our population
nor riches were equal. We have the fullest proof of this, in the
constant thinness of our armies ; the impossibility, at this time,
of recruiting them otherwise than by compulsion ; the scarcity of

^T. 23.]

CORRESPONDENCE. IIT

hands in liiisbandry, and other occupations ; the decrease of our
staple commodities ; and the difficulty of every species of supply.
I am aware that the badness of the money has its influence ;
but it was originally an effect, not a cause, though it now par-
takes of the nature of both. A part of those evils would appear,
were our finances in a more flourishing condition. We experi-
enced them before the money was materially depreciated ; and
they contributed to its depreciation. The want of men soon
obliged the public to pay extravagant wages for them in every
department. Agriculture languished from a defect of hands.
The mechanic arts did the same. The price of every kind of
labor increased : and the articles of foreign commerce, from the
interruption it received, more than kept pace with other things.

The relative value of money being determined by the greater
or less portion of labor and commodities which it will purchase :
whatever these gained in price, that of course lost in value.

The public expenditures, from the dearness of every thing,
necessarily became immense ; greater in proportion than in other
countries ; and much beyond any revenues which the best con-
certed scheme of finance could have extracted from the natural
funds of the State. No taxes, which the people were capable of
bearing, on that quantity of money which is deemed a proper
medium for this country (had it been gold instead of paper),
would have been sufficient for the current exigencies of Govern-
ment.

The most opulent States of Europe, in a war of any duration,
are commonly obliged to have recourse to foreign loans or sub-
sidies.* How, then, could we expect to do without them, and

* France owes a debt of near two hundred millions of pounds sterling ; of which
about twenty-eight millions is due to Governments and individuals in the United
Provinces.

England owes a debt not much short : of which about thirty millions is like-
wise due in the United Provinces.

The United Provinces, themselves, owe a debt of the generality, of fifty millions
sterling besides the particular debts of each province. Russia, Prussia, Denmark.
Sweden, all owe money to the United Provinces, notwithstanding the assistance of
their mines. These Governments, too, are patterns of economy. Sweden receives
a constant supply from France. The House of Austria is also to be included in the

118 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 23.

not augment the quantity of our artificial wealtli beyond tliose
bounds which were proper to preserve its credit ? The idea was
chimerical.

The quantity of money formerly in circulation among us, is
estimated at about thirty millions of dollars. This was barely
sufficient for our interior commerce. Our exterior commerce was
chiefly carried on by barter. We sent our commodities abroad,
and brought back others in return. The balance of the princi-
pal branch was against us ; and the little specie derived from
others, was transferred directly to the payment of that balance,
without passing into home circulation. It would have been im-
practicable, by loans and taxes, to bring such a portion of the
forementioned sum into the public coffers as would have answered
the purposes of the war : nor could it have spared so considera-
ble a part, without obstructing the operations of domestic com-
merce. Taxes are hmited, not only by the quantity of wealth in
a State, but by the temper, habits, and genius of the people ; all
which, in this country, conspired to render them moderate : and
as to loans, men will not be prevailed upon to lend money to the
public when there is a scarcity, and they can find a more profita-
ble way of employing it otherwise, as was our case.

The ordinary revenues of the United Provinces amount to
about twenty -five millions of guilders ; or two millions two hun-
dred and fifty thousand pounds sterling per annum. This is, in
proportion to its territory and numbers, the richest country in
the world ; and the country where the people sustain the heaviest

catalogue. Spain is almost the only considerable European power to bo excepted ;
but this is to be attributed to that inexhaustible fund of treasure which she pos-
sesses in the mines of South America.

The King of Prussia is one of those potentates the least in debt; notwithstand-
ing he has a long time made a figure in Europe, much above what the comparative
strength and resources of his kingdom entitled him to expect. This his superior
genius has effected. By a wise administration, he maintains an army of one hun-
dred and fifty thousand men, nearly equal to that of France, with one-third of its
people, and less than a third of its riches. This he does by judicious arrange-
ments; by a rigid economy; and by a species of commerce, which is carried on,
on account of the State. There are several public manufactories, from which the
army is supplied ; and by the help of which, the money paid out with one hand is
taken in by the other.

iET.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 119

load of taxes. Its population is about equal to ours, two millions
of souls. The burthens on the subject are so great, that it is by
some held almost impracticable, even on extraordinary emergen-
cies, to enlarge the revenues by new impositions. It is main-
tained, their dependence, in these cases, must be on the extraor-
dinary contributions of wealthy individuals ; with the aid of
which, in some of their wars, they have raised four millions ster-
ling a year. In a country possessed of so vast a stock of wealth,
where taxes are carried to such a height ; and where the means
of paying them so infinitely exceed those in our power ; if the
national revenues only amount to the sum I have stated, how
inadequate must have been the product of any taxes we could
have levied, to the demands of the service ! Loans, for the rea-
son before hinted, would have been out of the question ; at least,
they would have been so trifling as to be an object of little im-
portance. Suppose we should have been able to raise a million
sterling, annually ; a sum that probably would have exceeded
our ability ; how unequal would this have been to our wants !*
No economy could have made it bear any proportion, especially
if we recur to the causes already enumerated, by which the cur-
rency depreciated in its first stages.

From these reasonings it results, that it was not in the power
of Congress, when their emissions had arrived at the thirty mil-
lions of dollars, to put a stop to them.f They were obliged, in
order to keep up the supplies, to go on creating artificial reve-
nues by new emissions ; and as these multiplied, their value
declined. The progress of the depreciation might have been
retarded, but it could not have been prevented. It was, in a
great degree, necessary.

There was but one remedy ; a foreign loan. All other expe-
dients should rather have been considered as auxiliary. Could

* This will appear, by recurring to our expenses in the commencement of the
war, before the money was depreciated. In 75, which was only three-fourths of a
year, the emissions amounted to seven millions of dollars : in 76, to fourteen mil-
lions. The war did not begin, in earnest, till 76.

t This is meant, without employing the assistance of a foreign loan, and of
other expedients beside borrowing and taxing.

120 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 23.

a loan have been obtained, and judiciously applied, assisted by a
vigorous system of taxation, we migbt have avoided that excess
of emissions which has ruined the paper. The credit of such a
fund would have procured loans from the moneyed and trading
men within ourselves ; because it might have been so directed,
as to have been beneficial to them in their commercial transac-
tions abroad.*

The necessity for a foreign loan is now greater than ever.
Nothing else will retrieve our affiiirs.

The wheels of Government, without it, cannot much longer
be kept in motion. Including Loan-office certificates, and State
emissions, we have about four hundred millions of dollars in cir-
culation. The real value of these, is less than seven millions,
which is the true circulating medium of these States : for though
the price of specie is and the rate of exchange for sterling

bills the nominal value of every commodity is at least

sixty to one, on an average. All the reasonings against the pos-
sibility of raising the current expenses on the foundation of thirty
millions, apply to our present situation in the ratio of thirty to
seven ; that is, it is as thirty to seven less practicable now than
when our emissions amounted to only thirty millions. Could
every dollar in circulation be brought annually into the treasury,
which never was effected in any country, and is politically im- ■
possible, the revenue would not be equal to the yearly expense.

The hope of appreciating the money, by taxes and domestic
loans, is at an end. As fast as ' it could be received, it must be
issued in the daily expenditures. The momentary interval be-
tween its being drawn out of circulation and returning into it,
would prevent its receiving the least advantage.

These reasonings may appear useless, as the necessity of a
foreign loan is now acknowledged, and measures are taking to
procure it. But they are intended to establish good principles ;
the want of which has brought us to the desperate crisis we are
arrived at, and may still betray us into fatal mistakes.

How this loan is to be employed, is now the question ; and

* This will appear from the plan which will be proposed.

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 121

its difficulty equal to its importance ! Two plans have been
proposed : one, to purchase up at once, in specie, or sterling bills,
all superfluous paper ; and to endeavor, by taxes, loans, and
economy, to hinder its returning into circulation. The remain-
der, it is supposed, would then recover its value. This, it is said,
will reduce our public debt to the sterling cost of the paper,_

Suppose two hundred millions were to be purchased, and the
rest called in by taxes. At this would require bills

to the amount of of dollars. But I doubt whether

four times this sum would be sufficient. The moment it was
known such purchases were to be made, the avarice of the specu-
lators would begin to operate : the demand would immediately
occasion an artificial appreciation ; each successive million would
cost more than the preceding. But this appreciation would be
more relative to the purchasing medium than to the prices of
commodities. The raising the value of the paper relative to the
former, would depend on the combination of a few artful indi-
viduals, and would be easily accomplished. The diminution of
prices must be slow, as it implies a change in the sentiments of
the body of the people with respect to the money. A sudden
revolution in the general rates of all the necessaries of life is not
to be expected. The prices of these, as they have reached their
present summit by degrees, must, by degrees, revert to their
former station. The minds of the people will not readily admit
impressions in favor of the currency. All their past experience
has given a habit of diffidence ; and the epidemical spirit of ex-
tortion will maintain a violent struggle with whatever has a ten-
dency to produce a fall of prices. A permanent reduction of the
quantity of circulating cash, will alone gradually effect it. But
this will not happen on the present plan.

The necessity of continuing the supplies at nearly the same
rates now given (which would be the case if my reasonings are
true), would have nearly the same effect mentioned with respect
to taxes and domestic loans. The money would return into cir-
culation almost as fast as it was drawn out : and at the end of the
year we should find our treasury empty ; our foreign loan dissi-
pated ; and the state of our finances as deplorable as ever. At

122 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ct. 23.

a moderate calculation, we should have spent ten or twelve mil-
lions of real dollars, for the sole purpose of carrying on the war
another year. It would be much better, instead of purchasing
up the paper currency, to purchase the supplies out of our specie
or bills. In the first instance, the public would suffer a direct
loss of the artificial appreciation, relative to the purchasing me-
dium : in the last, it would buy at the value of the commodities
in specie or bills.

A great source of error in disquisitions of this nature, is the
judging of events by abstract calculations ; which, though geo-
metrically true, are false as they relate to the concerns of beings
governed more by j)assion and prejudice, than by an enlightened
sense of their interests. A degree of illusion mixes itself in all
the aifairs of society. The opinion of objects has more influence
than their real nature. The quantity of money in circulation is
certainly a chief cause of its decline : but we find it is deprecia-
ted more than five times as much as it ought to be by this rule.
The excess is derived from opinion ; a want of confidence. In
like manner we deceive ourselves, when we suppose the value
will increase in proportion as the quantity is lessened. Opinion
will operate here also ; and a thousand circumstances may pro-
mote or counteract the principle.

The other plan proposed, is to convert the loan into merchan-
dise, and import it on public account. This plan is incomparably
better than the former. Instead of losing on the sale of its spe-
cie or bills, the public would gain a considerable profit on the
commodities imported. The loan would go much further this
way, in supplying the expenses of the war ; and a large stock of
valuable commodities, useful to the army and to the country,
would be introduced. This would affect the prices of things in
general, and assist the currency. But the arts of monopolizers
would prevent its having so extensive and durable an influence
as it ought to have.

A great impediment to the success of this, as well as the for-
mer scheme, will be the vast sums requisite for the current ex-
penses. The arguments adduced in the former case are applica-
ble here also, though not with equal force. The necessity the

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 123

public will be under of parting with its stock to defray the daily
demands, will give designing men an opportunity, by combina-
tions not to purchase, to oblige it to sell at a rate below the real
value of money. This they may the more easily effect, as the
demand for foreign commodities is much less than formerly, on
account of the general spirit of parsimony which has obtained
from necessity, and the manufactures carried on in private fami-
lies for their own use. The greatest jDart of the country people
now almost entirely clothe themselves.

The public must either sell very cheap, to collect rapidly the
superfluous paper in hopes of raising the value of the remainder ;
or it must sell very slow, to preserve the due proportion between
the articles it has for sale and those it wants to buy. By pursu-
ing the first method, it will soon exhaust its stock at a very con-
siderable loss, and only give temporary relief to the currency.
According to my principle, though it sells cheap, it must still
buy dear ; and, consequently, the money collected cannot remain
in the treasury long enough to preserve the rise in its appreciated
state. If it pursues the second method, the expenditures will be
equal to the income ; and though the public will make the natu-
ral profits on its goods, as it will lay up nothing, it will do noth-
ing towards the appreciation.*

The farmers have the game in their own hands, and will

* To form an idea of the effect of this plan, let it be supposed that the goods
imported amount to two millions of pounds sterling, and that these sell at one
hundred and fifty pounds in paper, for each pound sterling. The whole proceeds
will be eight hundred millions of dollars : to these add two hundred millions,
raised in taxes. There will then be in the hands of the public, one thousand mil-
lions of dollars ; which, at sixty to one, gives sixteen millions six hundred and six-
ty-six thousand six hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds of real dollars. Take
the year 76 for a standard, and suppose fourteen millions of dollars to be the prop-
er annual expense of the war, which is only two millions six hundred and sixty-six
thousand six hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds less than the whole amount
of the goods and taxes. At this rate, the plan would do little more than defray
the expenses of the war for one year. But this calculation is not exactly true ; be-
cause the money would certainly appreciate, in some degree, by the reduction of
its quantity : yet, as this reduction would not last, at least in the same extent, to
preserve the arppreciation ; and as, in proportion to the appreciation, the price of
goods must fall, and bring less money in, it is difficult to say whether it would not
ultimately come to the same thing.

124 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 23.

make it very difficult to lower tlie prices of tlieir commodities.
For want of laborers, tliere is no great superfluity of the most
essential articles raised. These are things of absolute necessity,
and must be purchased, as well by the other classes of socie-
ty as by the public. The farmers, on the contrary, if they do
not like the price, are not obliged to sell ; because they have al-
most every necessary within themselves ; salt, and one or two
more, excepted ; which bear a small proportion to what is wanted
from them ; and which they can obtain, by barter, for other arti-
cles equally indisjDensable. Heavy taxes, it may be said, will
oblige them to sell ; but they can pay, with a small part of what
they have, any taxes our legislatures will venture to impose, or
Avould be able to enforce.

One measure, alone, can counterbalance these advantages of
the farmers, and oblige them to contribute their proper quota to
the support of Government : a tax in kind.

This ought instantly to begin throughout the States. The
present quantity of cash, though nominally enormous, would, in
reality, be found incompetent to domestic circulation, were it not
that a great part of our internal commerce is carried on by bar-
ter. For this reason, it is impossible, by pecuniary taxes, to
raise a sum proportioned to the wants of the State. The money
is no longer a general representative ; and when it ceases to be
so, the State ought to call for a portion of the thing represented ;
or, in other Avords, to tax in kind. This will greatly facilitate
whatever plan of finance is adopted ; because it will lessen the
expenditures in cash, and make it the easier to retain what is
drawn in.

I said the demand for foreign goods is less than it formerly
was. I mean there is not a demand for so large a quantity, which
the reasons already assigned clearly demonstrate ; nor are the
exorbitant rates now given any objection to this doctrine.
There is an absolute scarcity even in comparison of the present
consumption ; and, of course, a demand for what there is. But
should an importation of two millions sterling take place, the
market would be glutted ; and there would be no way of keep-
ing u]D the price, but by maldng very slow sales. A less quan-

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 125

tity would stand no chance of calling in tlie money, and keeping
it in long enougli to effect any thing in favor of its credit,

I say nothing about the risk of importation, I do not believe
we could obtain a convoy sufficient to justify our hazarding it
without the precaution of insurance. But with this expedient
we are safe ; and must be satisfied with smaller profits for the
sake of security.

This is a plan not altogether to be rejected. With prudent
management it might enable us to carry on the war two or three
years (which, perhaps, is as long as it may last) ; but if we should
expect more from it, the restoration of the currency, we should
be disappointed.

The only plan that can preserve the currency, is one that will
make it the immediate interest of the moneyed men to co-operate
with Government in its support. This country is in the same
predicament in which France was previous to the famous Missis-
sippi scheme, projected by Mr. Law, Its paper money, like ours,
had dwindled to nothing ; and no efforts of the Government
could revive it, because the people had lost all confidence in its
ability, Mr, Law, who had much more j)enetration than integri-
ty, readily perceived, that no plan could succeed which did not
unite the interest and credit of rich individuals with those of the
State ; and wgon this, he framed the idea of his j)roject, which,
so far, agreed in principle with the Bank of England, The foun-
dation was good, but the superstructure too vast. The proprie-
tors aimed at unlimited wealth, and the Government itself ex-
pected too much ; which was the cause of the ultimate miscar-
riage of the scheme, and of all the mischiefs that befel the king-
dom in consequence.

It will be our wisdom to select what is good in this plan,
and in any others that have gone before us ; avoiding their de-
fects and excesses. Something on a similar principle in America,
will alone accomjjlish the restoration of paper credit, and estab-
lish a permanent fand for the future exigencies of Government.

Article I, The plan I would propose, is that of an American
Bank, instituted by authority of Congress for ten years, under
the denomination of The Bank of the United States.

126 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 23.

II. A foreign loan makes a necessary part of tlie plan ; but
tliis I am persuaded we can obtain, if we pursue the proper mea-
sures. I shall suppose it to amount to two millions of pounds
sterling. This loan to be thrown into the Bank as a part of its
stock.

III. A subscription to be opened for two hundred millions
of dollars ; and the subscribers erected into a Company, to be
called The Company of the Bank of the United States.

TV. The Government to guarantee this subscription money
to the proprietors, at the rate of one for twenty; that is, to
engage, at the dissolution of the Bank, to make good to them
the sum of ten millions of dollars, in lieu of the two hundred
millions subscribed, payable in Spanish milled dollars, or a cur-
rency bona fide equivalent to them.

V. The taxes raised in money annually, to be thrown into
stock.*

yi. All the remaining paper to be called in (at the option
of the possessor), and bank notes issued in lieu of them, for so
much sterling, payable to the bearer in three months from the
date, at two per cent, per annum interest. A pound sterling to
be estimated at two hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds of
the present clollars.f The interest to be punctually paid in
specie at the end of the three months ; when it shall be at the
choice of the possessor to have the bank notes renewed, or to
receive the sum deposited, in the old paper.

VII. All the money issued from the Bank, to be of the
same denomination, and on the same terms.:]:

* The taxes are made to increase every year, for the three years ; because
the money in circulation increases, and, consequently, the people can afford to pay
more.

t This is sixty paper dollars to one dollar of four shillings and sixpence ster-
ling ; which is the real value of the money. But if it is apprehended that this may
meet with opposition, let the valuation of the bank notes be the same as the price
of European Bills of Exchange. Other operations must be regulated accordingly.

:j: Tlie reason of this is, to preserve the idea of a Stock, and make it seem that
the old paper is still in existence. But there is danger, notwithstanding the
reasons to the contrary, that there may be a run upon the bank, from particular
causes, which may embarrass it. It is not probable the old paper will be entirely,
though nearly, called out of circulation : what remains, will appreciate : this may

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 127

VIII. The Bank to farnisTi Congress with an annual loan
of two millions sterling, if they have occasion for it, at four per
cent, interest.

IX. The whole, or such part of the stock as is judged
necessary, to be employed in commerce, in the manner, and on
the terms, which shall be agreed upon, from time to time,
betAveen the Company, and a Board of Trade to be appointed by
Cono-ress.

X. The Bank to issue occasionally, by permission of Con-
gress, such sums as may be thought safe and expedient, in
private loans, on good securities, at six per cent, interest.

XI. The Government to share half the whole stock and
profits of the Bank.

XII. The Bank to be managed by the trustees of the Com-
pany, under the inspection of the Board of Trade,* who may

tempt those who have bank notes, to demand paj^ment on the terms of the orighial
deposit ; without considering that, by bringing too great a quantity again into cir-
culation, it will again depreciate. The Bank may be pushed to a very disagreeable
extremity by this means. I do not know whether it may not be advisable to confine
the privilege of repayment to the lenders to the Bank, and make the bills bear
interest, payable every three months, without making the principal demandable.
Much may be said for and against. It is well worth consideration.

* This board ought immediately to be established, at all events. The Royal
Council of Commerce, in France, and the subordinate Chambers in each province,
form an excellent institution, and may, in many respects, serve as a model. Con-
gress have too long neglected to organize a good scheme of administration, and
throw public business into proper executive departments. For Commerce, I prefer
a Board ; but for most other things, single men. We want a Minister of War, a
Minister of Foreign Affairs, a Minister of Finance, and a Minister of Marine.
There is always more decision, more dispatch, more secrecy, more responsibility,
where single men, than where bodies are concerned. By a plan of this kind, we
should blend the advantages of a Monarchy and of a Republic, in a happy and bene-
ficial union. Men will only devote their lives and attentions to the mastering a
profession, on which they can build reputation and consequence which they do not
share with others.

If this plan should be approved. Congress ought immediately to appoint a
Minister of Finance, under whatsoever title they think proper, and charge him
with its execution. He ought to be a man of ability, to comprehend it in all its
consequences ; and of eloquence, to make others comprehend and relish it. He
ought, beside, to have some general knowledge of the science. This man ought
immediately to address himself to some of the most sensible moneyed men ; and

128 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 23.

have recourse to tlie Company books whenever they think pro-
per, to examine the state of its affairs. The same is done in
EngLand, and in other countries where Banks are estabhshed,
and is a privilege which the Government has a right to demand
for its own security. It is the more necessary in this case, from
the commercial nature of the Bank.
To give an idea of the advantages

[Here a part of the manuscript is missing.]

which, having all the operation of money, and of a more advan-
tageous kind than that which the lenders have parted with, will
have all the efficacy of a payment. It is for this reason they
are made to bear interest : and there can be no doubt, that every
man will prefer a species of money which answers all the pur-
poses of a currency, and even, when lying idle, brings in a profit
to the jDossessor. The same consideration will prevent the
lenders recalling the old paper, at the quarterly payments ; be-
cause they hold a more valuable property instead of it. The
interest is to be paid in specie, as a further temptation, for which
a small sum will suf&ce. The denomination of the money is
altered ; because it will produce a useful illusion. Mankind are
much led by sounds and appearances ; and the currency having
changed its name, will seem to have changed its nature.

The Bank will advance bills to the amount of two millions
of pounds sterling to Congress ; and, in addition to its stock, will

endeavor to convince them of the utiHty of the project. These must engage others,
and so on, till a sufficient number is engaged.

Then Congress must establish the Bank, and set it agoing. I know of no man
that has better pretensions than yourself; and I shall be very happy to hear that
Congress have said, " Thou art the man."

I had like to have omitted one remark, which is, that the subscription
money may be guaranteed, if necessary, at 10 to 1, as a greater inducement.
This will only be twenty millions of dollars, or five millions of pounds sterling ;
a cheap bargain to get rid of the perplexities we labor under, and convert the
torrent of ideal money into a moderate, but sufficient, stream, to supply the real
wants of the State. Congress, no doubt, would be able to borrow enough abroad
to pay this debt, if it should not find better means within itself. But I shall be
much mistaken, if the proprietors will desire to be repaid, and not prefer continu-
ing the loan to Government on reasonable terms.

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 129

now have a debt due it of this sum, which is to be considered as
so much gained.

[Here a pcart of the manuscript is missing.]

Brought over, 7,075,000

To be deducted,

Drawn out of circulation, by the sale of

goods imported, .... 4,000,000
By govermental taxes, supposed to be, 1,000,000 — 5,000,000

Eemaining in circulation the fourth year, . £2,075,000

This will be less than the preceding, which is occasioned by
the million supposed to be drawn in by taxes.

The national debt, on this plan, will stand thus, at the end of
three years :

Foreign loan, 2,000,000

Domestic loan, at two millions per annum, . 6,000,000
Interest, at four per cent., .... 820,000

8,320,000
Half the value of the Bank, .... 7,900,000

Balance against the United States, . . . £420,000

We may, therefore, by means of this establishment, carry on
the war three years, and only incur a debt of four hundred and
twenty thousand pounds over and above the guarantee of the
subscription money ; which, however, is not to be paid till the
end of ten years.

I have said, in one place, that abstract calculations, in ques-
tions of finance, are not to be relied on : and as the complex
operations of trade are involved in the present plan, I am, myself,
dif&dent of those flattering results which it presents at every step»
I am aware how apt the imagination is to be heated in projects
of this nature, and to overlook the fallacies which often lurk in

VOL. I. 9

130 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

first principles. But wlien I consider, on the other hand, that
the scheme stands on the firm footing of pubhc and private faith ;
that it hnks the interest of the State in an intimate connection
with those of the rich individuals belonging to it ; that it turns
the wealth and influence of both into a commercial channel, for
mutual benefit, which must afford advantages not to be estima-
ted ; that there is a defect of circulating medium, which this
plan supplies, by a sort of creative power ; converting what is so
produced into a real and efficacious instrument of trade ; I say,
when I consider these things, and many more that might be
added, I cannot forbear feeling a degree of confidence in the plan ;
and, at least, hoping that it is capable of being improved into
something that will give relief to our finances.

I do not believe, that the advantages will be so great in fact,
as they seem to be in speculation. They will be limited by
the means of commerce which the States produce ; and these
may not be so extensive in the beginning as the plan supposes.
Beside this, the profits of the commerce will not be so large, in
proportion, after the first or second year, as during those years :
neither will it be possible to increase the paper credit in the same
degree. But the Bank of England is a striking example, how
far this may be carried, when supported by public authority and
private influence. On the other hand, a variety of secondary
expedients may be invented, to enlarge the advantages of the
bank. The whole system of annuities, as practised in England,
may be ingrafted upon it, with such differences as are proper to
accommodate it to our circumstances. The European loan may
also be converted into a European Bank, the interests of which,
being interwoven with the American Bank, may engage rich
individuals there in promoting and extending the plan.

Very beneficial contracts may be made between Government
and the Company, for supplying the army, by which money may
be saved to the public, the army better furnished, and the profits
of the bank extended.

I have confined the Bank to the space of ten years ; because
this will be long enough to judge of its advantages and disadvan-
tages : and the latter may be rectified by giving it a new form.

i

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 131

I do not suppose it will ever be discontinued ; because it seems
to be founded on principles that must always operate well, and
make it tlie interest, both of Government and the Company, to
uphold it. But I suppose the plan capable of improvement,
which experience will suggest.

I give one half of the whole property of the Bank to the
United States; because it is not only just, but desirable to both
parties. The United States contribute a great part of the stock ;
their authority is essential to the existence of the Bank ; their
credit is pledged for its support. The plan would ultimately fail,
if the terms were too favorable to the Company, and too hard
upon Government. It might be encumbered with a debt which
it could never pay, and be obliged to take refuge in a bankrupt-
cy. The share which the State has in the profits, will induce it
to grant more ample privileges, without Avhich the trade of the
Company might often be under restrictions injurious to its suc-
cess.

It is not, perhaps, absolutely necessary that the sum sub-
scribed should be so considerable as I have stated it, though the
larger the better. It is only necessary it should be considerable
enough to engage a sufficient number of the principal moneyed
men in the scheme. But Congress must take care to proportion
the advantages they give and receive.

It may be objected, that this plan will be prejudicial to trade,
by making the Government a party with a trading Company ;
which may be a temptation to arrogate exclusive privileges, and
thereby fetter that spirit of enterprise and competition, on which
the prosperity of commerce depends. But Congress may satisfy
the jealousies on this head, by a solemn resolution not to grant
exclusive privileges, which alone can make the objection valid.
Large trading Companies must be beneficial to the commerce of
a nation, when they are not invested with these, because they
furnish a capital with which the most extensive enterprises may
be undertaken. There is no doubt the establishment proposed
would be very serviceable at this juncture, merely in a commer-
cial view ; for private adventurers are not a match for the numer-
ous obstacles resulting from the present posture of affairs.

132 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 23.

Tlie present plan is tlie product of some reading on the sub-
jects of commerce and finance, and of occasional reflections on our
particular situation : but a want of leisure lias prevented its being
examined in so many lights, and digested so materially, as its
importance requires. If the outlines are thought worthy of
attention, and any difficulties occur which demand explanation :
or if the plan be approved, and the further thoughts of the writer
are desired ; a letter directed to James Montague, Esquire, lodged
in the post-of&ce at Morristown, will be a safe channel of any
communications you may think proper to make ; and an imme-
diate answer will be given. Though the writer has reasons
which make him unwilling to be known ; if a personal confer-
ence with him should be thought material, he will endeavor to
comply.

You will consider this as a hasty production, and excuse the
incorrectnesses with which it abounds.

I am, Sir, very respectfully.

Your most obedient and humble servant.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Amboy, March 17, 1780.

Dear Sir:

I duly received your letter of the fourteenth, and shall not
fail, in conjunction with General St. Clair, to attend to the mili-
tary object of it. I am much obliged to your Excellency for the
communication of your Southern advices. The enemy are still
in the dark about their fleet and army gone that way, as we
gather from the commissioners. They pretend to have little
European news, though a vessel arrived two or three days since
from England, after ten weeks passage. We send you some late
New- York papers.

The commission has been several days at an end. The
enemy, as was supposed, had no idea of treating on national
ground. We are now in private conversation, and so far not

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 13

without hopes that the liberation of our prisoners will be eflfected
on admissible terms. Two or three days more will probably put
an end to the interview. General St. Clair and Colonel Carring-
ton, beg their respects may be presented to your Excellency.
I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully and affectionately,

Your Excellency's most ob't servant,

Alex. Hamilton,

DU PORTAIL TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 21 March, 1780.

Mox Cher Colonel :

Quoique je compte partir pour le camp dans peu de jours, la
crainte d' etre encore retenu plus longtemps que je ne voudrais,
(comme je le suis depuis un mois), me fait prendre le parti de
vous ecrire quelque chose qui me semble d'une certaine import-
ance que me concerne. Hier j'ais appris qu'il y a une quinzaine
de jours hors de la nouvelle de 1' arrivee des Anglais, une mem-
bre du Congres Kepresanta dans le Congres, qu'il serait apropos
de m'envoyer en Caroline avec la plus grande hate. II fonda sa
demande sur les choses avantageuses qu'il avait entendu dire de
moi, etc., etc. II voulait que le Congres me donnat sur le
champ des ordres, et que je partisse sans delai. J'ignore quel
est le membre qui a fait cette proposition, seulement je conjec-
ture que c'est quelque delegue des Etats du sud. On lui a re-
pondu, que c'etait au Commandant-en- Chef qu'il appartenait de
faire une telle chose, que le Congres ne pouvait pas savoir s'il
n' avait pas quelque raison de me retenir a son Armee, quoique
dans la circonstance presente, il parut effectivement que je serais
plus utile au sud, en un mot que V attention avec la quelle le Com,-
mandant-en-Ghef veillait au salut de I'etat ne jperTnettait pas de douter
qu'il n' employ at tous les moyens qui etaient en son pouvoir^ et que les
circonstances permettaient.

H est tres agreable, mon cher Colonel, d'etre le sujct d'une
aussi belle j^hrase, mais je suis fach6 que la chose ait tourne

134 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 23.

ainsi; je suis aussi tres faclie de n'avoir pas su tout cela
dans le temps pour vous le mander. Car il etait encore temps
dors d'aller dans le sud; maintenant je ne sais plus que desirer.
Cependant liier Ton nous debitait que des vaisseaux de transport
servantes de vaisseaux de guerre etaient arrivees a New-York
pour prendre des Eenforts ; si cela etait si confirme, il'y aurait
apparence que les Anglais ne se proposaient pas de commencer
leurs operations avant I'arrivee de ces Eenforts, alors ce serait
peut etre le cas d'y aller. Je laisse tout cela a faire a votre pru-
dence, et a votre amiti6, vous savez une partie des raisons que
j'ai toujours eu et que j'ai encore de ne point faire de demande a
ce sujet au General Washington, mais vous savez aussi combien
je desire d'aller au Caroline. S'il y'a quelque apparence que je
puisse y arriver a temps, je ne vais pas d'inconvenient a ceque
vous faisiez usage aupres du General de ce qui c'est passe dans
le Congres, parceque plusieurs membres de Congi^es Font deja
dit a differentes personnes,

(Si vous voulez ensuite que je vous parle comme a mon ami,
je vous dirai que j'ai eu lieu de voir que de m'envoyer la bas,
aurait fait unfort bon effet ici, surtout dans le commencement.)

Supposez done, que notre General jugeat par des circon-
stances ulterieures qu'il peut encore etre temps de m'y envoyer,
comme il ne faut pas perdre un moment, il serait bon que je
ne fusse pas oblige de retourner au camp. Pour cela il faudrait
m'envoyer avec les ordres, toutes les lettres necessaires pour le
General Lincoln et autres. Vous savez, mon cher Colonel, ce
que je desire a cet 6gard. Si je vas la bas, il faut que mon
arrivee soit comme un de ces accidens au tlieatre qui reveille les
spectateurs, et redonne de I'activite et de la clialeur a la piece,
vous m'entendez.

Je crois que dans ce cas le General doit ecrire au Congres,
outre les raisons qu'il a de m'envoyer pour le prier de me faire
donner tons les moyens necessaires pour faire diligence.

Enfin, prenez bien garde a ceci, mon clier Colonel, si vous
m'envoyez des ordres, sitot que cela sera decide, envoyez cher-
cher Monsieur de I'Estaing, mon Aid-de-Camp, et dites lui s'il
vous plait de faire partir sur le champ ma malle et la sienne sur

^T.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 135

un waggon du quartier maitre, s'il y en a qui partant sur le
champ, sinon sur mon propre waggon : qu'il n'oublie pas surtout
mes papiers. II pent ensuite venir apres lui meme et m'apporter
les lettres du General. II faut qu'il fasse diligence ; je ne puis
partir sans diiferentes choses qui sont dans ma maile ; qu'il se
munisse lui meme de ce qu'il lui faut, Mon adresse ici est:
Mrs. Sword in Logan Alley, Second-street.

Je ne partirais point d'ici avant lundi prochain afin d'attendre
votre reponse.

J'ai I'honneur d'etre, mon clier Colonel,
Avec le plus parfait attachment,

Votre tres humble et tres obeissant servant,

Du PORTAIL.

Col. Hamilton.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Ai^ril 8, 1780.

Dear Sir:

****** You have been mentioned in private conversa
tion to go as Secretary to the Embassy at the Court of Versailles ;
there is but one obstacle which prevents me from making up my
mind on the subject ; that you will know when I have the plea-
sure of seeing you. In the mean time revolve the matter in
yours.

The pride, the folly, and perhaps, too, the wickedness of some
on a certain floor, combine to frustrate every intention to pro-
mote the public weal, and relieve my amiable Chief from his
well-grounded anxiety ; the few that feel for him, and are alarmed
at the critical state of our public affairs, in every department,
within as well as without, have not been able to carry a measure
which they believed would have had salutary consequences.
They have now proposed that a Committee should repair to head
quarters, invested conjointly with the General, with a kind of
dictatorial power, in order to aflbrd satisfaction to the army,
and to arrange the great departments thereof. Livingston, Els-

136 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 23.

worth, and Matthews, are appointed to prepare Instructions.
Some good may result, if gentlemen who love the General, are
not jealous of the army, and of a generous turn are sent; but
should General Sherman be at the head of the Triumviri, the
General will be tormented with a thousand little propositions
which Eoger has thrown together, and which he entitles a Sys-
tem. I shall not be sent on this business, " because, it would
not be proper to send a person who, as he has been in the army,
will probably have a bias in its favor." This reasoning is con-
clusive.

Beware of communications to this quarter, which you would
not wish the world to know ; this hint will prevent you from
writing but by a safe hand.

It is amusing to observe the effect Sir Harry Clinton's private
No. 15 has. The Southernites have their spirits much raised by
it. The Northerns look big, and the enemy's distress is owing
to their virtue and exertions. They wish for the 12,000 Hessians
to have the pleasure of devouring them. The war is to be at an
end next winter, and as they wish to conclude handsomely, they
will insist that their constituents complete their quotas without
delay, and farnish aids of money, &c. En verite there are only
two or three of the club who believe the letter spurious, but two
who are decidedly of that opinion.

My best wishes to all at head quarters.

I am, dear Sir, sincerely yours,

Ph. Schuyler.
Col. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.

May 10, 1780.

Dear Baron:

General Knox, in conversation, has observed to the General,
that instead of sending to Philadelphia for the fifteen hundred
arms mentioned in your letter of the sixth, and sending those
here to that place to be fitted, it would be a great saving of ex-

^T.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 137

pense, in the article of transportation, to liave tlie bayonets and
accoutrements brought on without the arms, and fitted to those
now here ; which can easily be done at the Park. The question
is, if the arms here have no other defect than want of bayonets.
The General will be glad to know what you think of General
Knox's proposal. It seems to him eligible, unless there are rea-
sons he is not acquainted with.

If there are any other articles you wish to have sent for (the
General thinks you mentioned something of the kind to him), he
will be glad to know what they are.

We have heard from the Marquis. He will be here at din-
ner. Will you dine with us also ? The General requests it.
I have the honor to be, dear Baron,

Your very humble servant,

Alex. Hamilton, A. D. C.

HAMILTON TO DUANE.

May 14, 1780.

My Dear Sir:

This will be handed you by the Marquis, who brings us very
important intelligence. The General communicates the substance
of it in a private letter to you, and proposes a measure which all
deem essential. For God's sake, my dear sir, engage Congress
to adopt it, and come to a speedy decision. We have not a mo-
ment to lose. Were we to improve every instant of the interval,
we should have too little time for what we have to do. The ex-
pected succor may arrive in the beginning of June, in all proba-
bility it will not be later than the middle. In the last case we
have not a month to make our preparations in, and in this short
period we must collect men, form magazines, and do a thousand
things of as much difficulty as importance. The propriety of the
measure proposed is so obvious, that an hour ought to decide it,
and if any new members are to come, they ought to set out
instantly with all expedition for head quarters.

138 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 23.

Allow me, my dear sir, to give you a hint. Tlie General
will often be glad to consult the Committee on particular points,
but it will be inexpedient that he should be obliged to do it
oftener than he thinks proper, or any peculiar case may require.
Their powers should be formed accordingly. It is the essence of
many military operations, that they should be trusted to as few
as possible.

The Marquis has a title to all the love of all America ; but
you know he has a thousand little whims to satisfy ; one of these
he will have me to write to some friend in Congress about. He
is desirous of having the Captain of the frigate in which he came
complimented ; and gives several pretty instances of his punctu-
ality and disinterestedness. He wishes Congress to pass some
resolutions of thanks, and to recommend him to their Minister
in France, to be recommended to the French Court. The first of
these is practicable. The last I think might have an ofiicious
appearance. The essential services the Marquis has rendered
America in France, give him a claim for all that can be done
with propriety ; but Congress must not commit themselves.

Again, my dear sir, I must entreat you to use the spur on
the present occasion. The fate of America is perhaps suspended
on the issue ; if we are found unprepared, it must disgrace us in
the eyes of all Europe, besides defeating the good intentions of
our allies, and losing the happiest opportunity we ever have had
to save ourselves. Adieu, my dear Sir.

Believe me to be, with the truest respect and affection,
Your most obed't servant,

A. Hamilton.

Hon. James Duane, Philadelphia.
Honored by Marquis De Lafayette.

Mt.23.] correspondence. 139

HAMILTON TO BAEON STEUBEN.

June 7, 1780.

Dear Baron:

I am commanded by tlie General to inform you, that the ene-
my are out in considerable force ; and, by the last advice, were
advancing this way. We are going to meet them. The Greneral
is just set out for Chatham, and will be happy to meet you there.

Yours, respectfully,

A. Hamilton, A. D. C.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

June 8, 1780.

Sir:

I have seen the enemy. Those in view I calculate at about
three thousand : there may be, and probably enough are, others
out of sight. They have sent all their horse to the other side,
except about fifty or sixty. Their baggage, it is agreed on all
hands, has also been sent across, and their wounded. It is not
ascertained that any of their infantry have passed to the other
side. There are four or five hundred on the opposite point ; but
it is uncertain whether they are those who went from this side,
or those who were on Staten Island. I rather suppose the
former.

Different conjectures may be made. The present movement
may be calculated to draw us down and betray us into an action.
They may have desisted from their intention of passing till night,
for fear of our falling upon their rear. I believe this is the case :
for as they have but few boats, it would certainly be a delicate
manoeuvre to cross in our face. We are taking measures to
watch their motions to-night, as closely as possible. An inces-
sant but very light skirmishing. Very few boats, not more than
enough to carry three or four hundred men at a time. It is
likely more will come down this evening.

I have the honor to be.

Your Excellency's most obedient servant,

Alex. Hamilton.

140 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^x. 23.

HAMILTON TO CHEVALIER DE TERNAY.

Au Cap Hknry, le 13 Juin, 1780.

Monsieur le Chevalier:

Je suis envoye par le Gr^n^ral Wasliington an Cap Henry-
pour y attendre voire escadre et vous remettre ainsi qn' a Mon-
sieur le Comte de Eochambau, les depeclies de Monsieur le Mar-
quis de La Fayette — ces depeclies, Monsieur le Chevalier, con-
tiennent le plan d'operations que le General Washington a
I'honneur de vous proposer, la situation des ennemies et la notre
relativement aux forces respectives des deux parties, aux points
occupes, aux moyens de subsistance et cetera ; tous les change-
mens qui pouvraient survenir sur ces objets doivent m' etre com-
muniques, aiin qu' a votre arrivee vous puissiez avoir sous les
yeux le plus de donn^es possibles. Les memes details vous at-
tendent a Rhode Island, et si vous ne devez les re^evoir qu'
apres etre arrive, il est presque indiflferent, Monsieur le Chevalier,
que votre escadre atterisse a Rhode Island ou au Cap Henry ;
mais il y a des circonstances qui, si elles vous etaient connues)
tendraient pent etre a vous determiner plustot pour I'un de ces
points que pour I'autre, ou meme pour nn troisieme point que
vos instructions n'ont pu prevoir. C'est pour vous rendre
compte de ces circonstances que j e saisis I'occasion du fier Rod-
rique ; heureux si, dans une conjoncture ou les moments sont
d'une si grande importance, cette lettre pent anticiper de quelques
jours vos dispositions.

1°. Par le plan propose a vous, Monsieur le Chevalier, et a
Monsieur le Comte de Rochambau, les efforts combines de I'arm^e
Fran^aise et Americaine doivent se porter sur New- York, et vous
etes instamment prie de vous rendre immediatement a Sandy
Hook.

2°. Suivant les informations qui m' ont ete recemment four-
nies par le Grouverneur de la Virginie, la ville de Charlestown
est prise ; les ennemis embarquent une partie des troupes qui en
ont fait la Conquete, et d'apres la certitude ou nous sommes que
la destination de votre escadre leur est connue, il semble que cet

/^

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 141

embarqiiement pourrait bien avoir pour objet de renforcer la
garnison de New-York.

3°. La somme de leurs forces navales sur ce continent se
borne a trois vaisseaux de ligne, un de 50 canons, deux de 44, et
quelques fregates a Cliarlestown ; un vaisseau de 74 et quelques
fregates, sortis de New- York depuis trois semaines et dont nous
ignorons la destination,

Ainsi, Monsieur le Chevalier, la premiere de ces considera-
tions vous invite a Sandy Hook ; la seconde reclame votre atterrage
sur un point d'ou vous puissiez etre en mesure d'intercepter les
Secours destines pour New- York, et la troisieme vous offre un
terme de comparaison entre la plus grande force qui puisse escor-
ter ces secours, et cette avec laquelle vous pouvez les attaquer.
II est encore a observer qu' excepte les trois vaisseaux de ligne,
tous les autres (a Cliarlestown) sont dans le port, et que les plus
gros n'en peuvent sortir, qu apres avoir 6te al6ges, et avec la
concurrence d'une baute marree et d'un vent propice.

Telles sont. Monsieur le Chevalier, les cboses dont ma mis-
sion a pour objet de vous rendre compte, et comme il est de toute
importance que ces informations vous parviennent le plus tot
possible, j'ai cru ne pas devoir n^gliger la probabilite, qui s'ofire
de les faire devancer votre arrivee.

En supposant. Monsieur le Chevalier, que le fier Eodrique
vous rencontre et que vous jugiez a propos de vous rendre en
droiture a Sandy Hook, il est un moyen de faire que les depech-
es qui vous attendent a Ehode Island et du Caji Henry vous
parviennent aussi promptement qui si vous aviez atterri a I'un de
ces deux points : ce serait de depecher, vers I'un ou I'autre, I'un de
vos plus legers vaisseaux qui recevrait a son bord I'oflEicier charge
de cesdepeches, et vous irait rejoin dre vers Sandy Hook, ou vrais-
emblablement il se rendrait aussitot que votre flotte, ou du moins
beaucoup plustot que les reponses de G6n6ral Washington ou
de Monsieur le Marquis de La Fayette, aux lettres qui leur an-
nonceraient votre arrivee.

Si le Cap Henry etait le point choisi, j'oserais vous prior.
Monsieur le Chevalier, afin d'eviter tous delais, d'ordonner qu'a
la vue, du signal que vous savez, le vaisseau y reponde par un

142 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

signal contraire, je veux dire en avertissant la position des pa-
vilions ; qu'il envoie sa chaloupe a terre avec un officier muni des
mots de reconnaissance ; que cet officier me donne la premiere
partie de ces mots et recoive de moi la seconde. Par la je crois,
Monsieur le Chevalier, que toute possibilite de surprise est sauvee,
de part et d' autre, sans qu'il j ait un seul instant de perdre par
le Ceremonial de la reconnaissance.

Je suis, &c. &c. &c.

A. Hamilton.
A Monsieur le Chevalier de Ternay.

HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.

Whippany, June 25, 1780.

Dear Baron:

The enemy, the day before yesterday, made a forward move-
ment to Springfield, which they burnt, and retired to Elizabeth-
town Point. The same evening they crossed over to Staten
Island ; and there are a great many concurring circumstances
which make it probable we shall next hear of them on the North
Eiver. As you are at West Point, the General wishes you to
remain there until the present appearances come to some result.
He has confidence in your judgment, and wishes you to give
your advice and assistance to the commanding ofl&cer. As you
have no command in the post, you can only do this in a private
friendly way : but I dare say General Howe will be happy to
consult you. You will consider this as a private letter, in which
I rather convey you the General's wishes than his commands.

All the army is in march toward you, and will be at Pomp-
ton this evening.

I have the honor to be,

Yery respectfully and affectionately,
Your humble servant,

Alex. Hamilton.

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 143

HAMILTON TO BARON" STEUBEN".

Head-Quarters, Ramapo, June 30, 1780,

Agreeably to your request, my dear Baron, I communicated
your project to tlie General. Happily the inactivity of tlie ene-
my has given us time to make dispositions which render the call-
ing out of the militia unnecessary ; and the whole has been ac-
cordingly countermanded.

The General requests that when you have completed the ob-
ject of your errand in your department, and put things in train,
you will rejoin the army.

I wrote you a line from Whippany, of which you made no

mention.

I have the honor to be, yours,

A. H.

HAMILTON TO BARON STEUBEN.

Head-Quarters, July 23, 1780.

I have received, my dear Baron, your two letters of the six-
teenth and eighteenth. On the formation of the Light Infantry,
the General has already written to you. I presume it will be,
ultimately, nearly as you have proposed.

Smith set out, some days since, to join you. Bradford, I am
told, is undecided about entering into the office. Col. Scammel
has promised to bring him to me ; and if he accepts, we will for-
ward him. I believe Prescott will be appointed in the Light In-
antry. Entre nous, 'tis not easy to find good Majors for this
corps in the Massachusetts Line ; and as it will act a good deal
with the French troops, we wish it (for this additional reason) to
be well officered. Prescott will answer the purpose : but he is
not yet to know that he is in contemplation. We shall not long
continue in our present position. The distinctions of depart-
ments are an old story, which now do not exist except with re-

144 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 23.

spect to South. Carolina. You are witli a detacliment of tlie
main army.

I dare say all you are doing will be found right. I shall join
my leau-pere to save you from the cord. The arrangement for
your department was unfortunately sent to Congress soon after
you went from here ; with the most pressing instances to deter-
mine upon it without delay. We have heard nothing of it since.
We have repeated our prayers and exhortations. If we get no
answer in three or four days, we must determine for ourselves.

Major Francis is returned from Philadelphia; but I have not
seen him since the arrival of your letters. I will move the in-
quiry you wish, when I see him. Can you do any thing for him
in your department ?

A severe stroke upon us, is, that our arms, expected from
France, are not arrived. I do not know how we shall be able to
arm our recruits.

Graves sailed from the Hook the nineteenth. We had been
playing off and on two days.

Adieu, my dear Baron, and believe me always, with the most

respectful attachment.

Your humble servant,

A. H.

BAUMAjST to HAMILTON.

West Point, Aiigust 13, 1780.

Deae Sir:

I cannot help laying before you a few of my thoughts, which
lately have engrossed my whole attention, on the review of our
changeable government at West Point. However, I hope you
will make no other use of them but such as may be of advan-
tage ; and whatever may be improper, or improperly stated, im-
pute to my inability only : and there you will please to let it
rest, and take in good part what I shall say, as it proceeds from
a zeal of affection to you, and from a regard to the cause I am
engaged in. On this consideration you will excuse me, if any

^T.23.] CORRESPONDENCE, 145

where I should seem to exceed those bounds which custom has
prescribed to subalterns, when they treat of any thing, or adopt
modes, to their superiors.

A continual change of commanding officers, or command-
ants, is, in my humble opinion, injurious to this post, and hurtful
to the military duty, so absolutely requisite to be performed, and
preserved in a garrison. As there is no nation at war which
pursues the like mode excepting us ; I am therefore induced, not
only from this consideration, but from weighty experience dur-
ing my station at this post, to offer an opinion of its improprie-
ty, and bad consequences. The visible ill it creates ; the damage
to innumerable things ; the irregularity it continually causes ;
and lastly, the total loss of the many thousands which have been,
and daily are, expended on this national fabric, which inevitably
must fall to pieces, unless an officer is fixed to this post (and who
ought to be a competent judge of fortifications, and a military
man), are matters which, I think, demand consideration.

A Town-Major, and a good Barrack-Master, are as necessary
here, as the necessaries of life are. The former to regulate the
duty and to keep up discipline in this jurisdiction: the latter to
take care of the buildings, which must otherwise be destroyed.
The next thing which fells to our attention, is the public pro-
vision, which has been, and daily is, exposed here to be lost, to
be stolen, and to be damaged, for want of sufficient shelter and
proper repositories. The troops have suffered, and still suffer,
from these and other causes. They have been cheated in
weights, in measure, and in their scanty allowance of fatigue
rum ; which I can attest, by being appointed, after my having
represented the matter to General M'Dougall, to inspect into
some of those abuses. Notwithstanding the many thousands of
boards which came here, there are not sufficient for barracks,
bunks, etc. For as fast as one thing is built up, another is torn
down again. There is not, in all this garrison, a proper guard-
house for the conveniency of soldiers, nor for the security of the
criminals. No powder magazine, nor a store for the reception
and reserve of the implements of war. In short, the whole
appears, at j)resent, under the care of ungovernable and undis-

VOL. I. 10

146 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 23.

ciplined militia, like a wild Tartar's camp, instead of tliat shining
fortification all America thinks not only an insurmountable
barrier against tbe incursion of its enemy, but likewise an easy
defence in case of an unforeseen disaster of its army.

However, to return to my subject. The importance of those
heads already mentioned, and their connection with those pre-
ceding, will, I hope, obtain your pardon for the digression into
which they have led me ; and to your discretion I shall leave
what I state.

In a letter I wrote to General Knox some time last winter,
among many things I had to say concerning the ordnance and
myself, I made this remark, to wit : " That relieving of an officer
from a garrison, is not like a relief in the field : for an officer
who knows himself to be relieved, will leave many things un-
done for the next to do ; which I have seen, heard, and experi-
enced. Beside, after once every thing is to rights, the men then
ought to desist from labor, and exercise the guns. But new
commanding officers have chiefly new systems of defence, which
add labor to labor, and nothing will be formed systematically."

I have already stated these and more things minutely to the
general officers here, who all agreed in their validity and pro-
priety. But they, being all liable to immediate removal, there
cannot be any thing formed into a permanent and regular system.
Moreover, I have been informed, that owing to the mismanage-
ment of their predecessors, they were obliged, after they had
taken the command, to hunt for materials in order to build their
own systems ; and to issue orders upon orders, to acquaint them-
selves with those persons who have, as it were, in keeping, the
several branches which flow into this department.

And let me once more, in confidence, assure you, that I
suffer incessant pain from the sad state this garrison is in. To
rectify defects, my dear sir, when roused to arms, can never be
attainable. Therefore let me beg you to assist in adopting some
plan which may be soldierly, for the good of the service : which,
however, can be done in no other manner, but such as I have
hinted to you. For let General Arnold have all the sagacity
imaginable, it will take him some time to get himself well

^T.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 147

acquainted with tlie position and defence of tliis post ; especially
as there is not one single Continental officer left here who can in
any way assist him. Every thing seems new here ; and the very
engineer is transferred from hence, on whom he, in some mea-
sure, could have depended for information, with regard to the
weakest and strongest parts of this fortress. And I have not yet
told you the one hundredth part of what I have to say upon
some of these subjects ; but I shall finish with prognosticating,
that should ever capriciousness hold sway here, it may prove fatal
to this post.

I am, with due respect, Sir,

Your most humble servant,

S. Bauman,
Major of Artillery.

DE MARBOIS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 21 Aout, 1780.

Je viens de recevoir mon cher Colonel votre lettre du 17 de
ce mois. Vous m'y parlez de mes Freres comme si vous etiez
sur qu'ils sont en effet prissonniers. Avez-vous sur cet article
plus de connaissance que je n'en ai, on m'avez vous deja ecrit
a ce sujet quelque lettre qui ne me serait point parvenue. Je
vais ^crire a M. de Ternay a ce sujet, mais en attendence je
vous prie de vouloir bien me communiquer tons les 6claircisse-
ments que vous aurez pu vous procurer, et 'detre persuade que
rien ne me tonche plus que de leur procurer de soulagement
s'ils sont en eflfet entre les mains de I'ennemi.

Si vous avez quelques nouvelles dernieres touchant I'embar-
cation que M. le General Clinton prepare, je vous prie de vouloir
bien m'en instruire, cet article etant de la plus grande impor-
tance pour nous. Je vous embrasse de tout mon coeur.

De Marbois.

Col. Hamilton.

148 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 23.

WILLIAMS TO HAMILTON.

Hillsborough, August 30, 1780.

Dear Hamilton:

About the twenty -third instant, I wrote my friend Harrison
from Sahsbury, giving him a very hasty particular account of
the defeat of General Gates's army at Sutton's, near Campden,
the sixteenth instant. We were truly unfortunate, and com-
pletely routed. The infamous cowardice of the militia of
Virginia and North Carolina, gave the enemy every advantage
over our few regular troops, whose firm opposition and gallant
behavior have gained them the applause, as well of our suc-
cessful foes, as of our runaway friends. If I mentioned to Col.
Harrison the loss of two howitzers, I was mistaken. We had
eight pieces of light artillery, with six ammunition wagons,
which, with the greatest part of our baggage, were lost.

Our retreat was the most mortifying that could have hap-
pened. Those who escaped the dangers of the field, knew not
where to find protection : the wounded found no relief from the
inhabitants, who were immediately in arms against us; and
many of our fugitive ofl&cers and men were disarmed by those
faithless villains, who had flattered us with promises of joining
us against the enemy. The tories are now assembling in dif-
ferent parts of the country ; and there is actually a sort of
partisan war waged between them and the whigs of this country.

The greatest part of our baggage was plundered by those
who first left the field. The enemy took a part ; and much of
what escaped them, has been pillaged by the inhabitants on the
retreat. The wagon horses have been stolen, and frequently
taken from the drivers ; and some of those desperate rascals have
been daring enough to fire upon parties of our regular troops
many miles from the place of action.

General Gates used the utmost expedition in getting from
the lost field to this place. As this step is unaccountable to me,
you must expect to know the reason another time, and from bet-
ter authority. An unfortunate General usually loses the con-

iET.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 149

fidence of his army ; and this is much the case with us at present.
However, I suppose every thing necessary will be done, in justi-
fication of the steps that have been taken, and then all will be
understood. Beside my ignorance, there is another reason for
my silence on this subject. The General is extremely mortified
at the disappointment his hopes have met with ; and I think it
ungenerous to oppress dejected spirits by a premature censure.

The legislature of this State is now sitting at this place, and
devising means of defending the country. The General has ex-
hibited* estimates (he informs me) of the supplies wanting to carry
on the campaign, both to the legislature of this State, and to
Virginia; and hopes they will be furnished. The officers of
North Carolina talk confidently of re-embodying a great number
of militia. General Stephens had collected about eight hundred
of the Virginia militia at this place since the action. But I -am
sorry to add, at least half that number have deserted. The
Maryland Division, including the Delaware regiment, will, I
hope, muster six hundred when all are collected. Part are now
here: a party are with General Smallwood at Ellis's Ferry,
Adkin river; and a small party with Major Anderson, who
General Smallwood left some time at Charlotte, to receive the
fugitives as they arrived. But this is the place of general ren-
dezvous.

From the best accounts I can get, Lord Cornwallis had with
him, on the day of battle, the seventy-first, sixty-third, thirty-
third, and twenty-third British regiments ; a corps of Hessians,
Tarlton's legion, and some new levies, amounting to about three
thousand men. Our numbers were very little greater; and
our force will not be imagined so great, by those who are inform-
ed of our long march in a barren country, with very little other
subsistence than a short allowance of fresh beef, green corn, apples,
and peaches.

As soon as I recover from a relaxation of spirits, which is all
my present complaint, I will write you again, and inform you
that we are resolved not to despair, but bear our fortunes like
veterans in the South ; while you, like heroes in the North, win
and wear the laurels of the present campaign.

150 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 23.

Present my most respectful compliments to the General,

whom I love ; to all my friends at head quarters and in camp.

Not a man among you have been generous enough to write a

single sentence to

Your sincere friend and servant,

0. H. Williams.

I mentioned the surprise of General Sumpter's party, which
happened the sixteenth instant, in my last.

HAMILTON TO JAMES DUANE.

Liberty Pole, September 3, 1780.

Dear Sir :

Agreeably to your request, and my promise, I sit down to
give you my ideas of the defects of our present system, and the
changes necessary to save us from ruin. They may, perhaps,
be the reveries of a projector, rather than the sober views of a
politician. You will judge of them, and make what use you
please of them.

The fundamental defect is a want of power in Congress. It
is hardly worth while to show in what this consists, as it seems
to be universally acknowledged ; or to point out how it has hap-
pened, as the only question is how to remedy it. It may, how-
ever, be said, that it has originated from three causes ; an excess
of the spirit of liberty, which has made the particular States show
a jealousy of all power not in their own hands ; and this jealousy
has led them to exercise a right of judging in the last resort of
the measures recommended by Congress, and of acting according
to their own opinions of their propriety, or necessity ; a diffi-
dence, in Congress, of their own powers, by which they have
been timid and indecisive in their resolutions : constantly making
concessions to the States, till they have scarcely left themselves
the shadow of power ; a want of sufficient means at their dis-
posal to answer the public exigencies, and of vigor to draw forth
those means; which have occasioned them to depend on the

^T.23.1 CORRESPONDENCE. 151

States individually, to fulfil their engagements with, the army ;
the consequence of which, has been to ruin their influence and
credit with the army, to establish its dependence on each State
separately, rather than on them, that is, rather than on the whole
collectively.

It may be pleaded, that Congress had never any definite
powers granted them, and, of course, could exercise none, could
do nothing more than recommend. The manner in which Con-
gress was appointed, would warrant, and the public good re-
quired, that they should have considered themselves as vested
with full power to preserve the republic from harm. They have
done many of the highest acts of sovereignty, which were always
cheerfully submitted to : The declaration of independence ; the
declaration of war : the levying of an army ; creating a navy ;
emitting money ; making alliances with foreign powers ; appoint-
ing a dictator, etc., etc. All these implications of a complete
sovereignty were never disputed, and ought to havebeen a stand-
ard for the whole conduct of administration. Undefined powers
are discretionary powers, limited only by the object for which
they were given ; in the present case, the independence and
freedom of America. The Confederation made no difference ;
for as it has not been generally adopted, it had no operation.
But from what I recollect of it. Congress have even descended
from the authority which the spirit of that act gives them ; while
the particular States have no further attended to it, than as it
suited their pretensions and convenience. It would take too
much time to enter into particular instances, each of which
separately might appear inconsiderable ; but united, are of
serious import. I only mean to remark, not to censure.

But the Confederation itself is defective, and requires to be
altered. It is neither fit for war nor peace. The idea of an
uncontrollable sovereignty, in each State, over its internal police,
will defeat the other powers given to Congress, and make our
union feeble and precarious. There are instances without
number, where Acts, necessary for the general good, and which
rise out of the powers given to Congress, must interfere with the
internal police of the States ; and there are as many instances in

152 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

whicli the particular States, by arrangements of internal police,
can effectually, tliougli indirectly, counteract the arrangements of
Congress. You have already had examples of this, for which I
refer you to your own memory.

The Confederation gives the States, individually, too much
influence in the affairs of the army. They should have nothing
to do with it. The entire formation and disposal of our military
forces, ought to belong to Congress. It is an essential cement of
the union : and it ought to be the policy of Congress, to destroy
all ideas of State attachments in the army, and make it look up
wholly to them. For this purpose, all appointments, promotions,
and provisions, whatsoever, ought to be made by them. It may
be apprehended that this may be dangerous to liberty. But
nothing appears more evident to me, than that we run much
greater risk of having a weak and disunited federal government,
than one which will be able to usurp upon the rights of the people.

Already some of the lines of the army would obey their
States in opposition to Congress, notwithstanding the pains we
have taken to preserve the unity of the army. If any thing
would hinder this, it would be the personal influence of the Gen-
eral ; a melancholy and mortifying consideration.

The forms of our State constitutions, must always give them
great weight in our affairs, and will make it too difficult to bend
them to the pursuit of a common interest ; too easy to oppose
whatever they do not like : and to form partial combinations
subversive of the general one. There is a wide difference between
our situation, and that of an empire under one simple form of
government, distributed into counties, provinces, or districts,
which have no legislatures, but merely magistratical bodies, to
execute the laws of a common sovereign. Here the danger
is, that the sovereign will have too much power, and oppress the
parts of which it is composed. In our case, that of an empire com-
posed of confederated States; each with a government completely
organized within itself, having all the means to draw its subjects
to a close dependence on itself; the danger is directly the reverse-
It is, that the common sovereign will not have power sufficient

^T.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 153

to unite tlie different members together, and direct the common
forces to the interest and happiness of the whole.

The leagues among the old Grecian republics are a proof of
this. They were continually at war with each other ; and, for
want of union, fell a prey to their neighbors. They frequently
held general councils ; but their resolutions were no further ob-
served, than as they suited the interests and inclinations of all
the parties ; and, at length, they sunk entirely into contempt.

The Swiss Cantons are another proof of the doctrine. They
have had wars with each other, which would have been fatal to
them, had not the different powers, in their neighborhood, been
too jealous of one another, and too equally matched, to suffer either
to take advantage of their quarrels. That they have remain-
ed so long united at all, is to be attributed to their weakness, to
their poverty, and to the causes just mentioned. These ties will
not exist in America; a little time hence, some of the States will
be powerful empires ; and we are so remote from other nations,
that we shall have all the leisure and opportunity we can wish,
to cut each other's throats.

The Grermanic corps might also be cited as an example in
favor of the position.

The United Provinces may be thought to be one against it.
But the family of the Stadtholders, whose authority is inter-
woven with the whole Government, has been a strong link of
union between them. Their physical necessities, and the habits
founded upon them, have contributed to it.

Each province is too inconsiderable, by itself, to undertake
any thing. An analysis of their present constitutions, would
show that they have many ties which would not exist in ours ;
and that they are by no means a proper model for us.

Our own experience should satisfy us. We have felt the dif-
ficulty of drawing out the resources of the country, and inducing
the States to combine in equal exertions for the common cause.

The ill success of our last attempt is striking. Some have
done a great deal ; others little, or scarcely any thing. The dis
putes about boundaries, etc., testify how flattering a prospect we
have of future tranquillity, if we do not frame, in time, a con-

154 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

federacy capable of deciding the differences, and compelling the
obedience of the respective members.

The Confederation, too, gives the power of the purse too en-
tirely to the State Legislatures. It should provide perpetual
funds, in the disposal of Congress, by a land tax, poll tax, or the
like. All imposts upon commerce ought to be laid by Congress,
and appropriated to their use. For, without certain revenues, a
Government can have no power. That power which holds the
purse-strings absolutely, must rule. This seems to be a medium
which, without making Congress altogether independent, will
tend to give reality to its authority.

Another defect in our system, is want of method and energy
in the administration. This has partly resulted from the other
defect ; but in a great degree from prejudice, and the want of a
proper executive. Congress have kept the power too much in
their own hands, and have meddled too much with details of
every sort. Congress is, properly, a deliberative corps ; and it
forgets itself when it attempts to play the executive. It is im-
possible such a body, numerous as it is, constantly fluctuating,
can ever act with sufficient decision, or with system. Two-thirds
of the members, one half the time, cannot know what has gone
before them, or what connection the subject in hand has to what
has been transacted on former occasions. The members who
have been more permanent, will only give information that pro.
motes the side they espouse in the present case ; and will as often
mislead as enlighten. The variety of business must distract ;
and the proneness of every assembly to debate, must at all times
delay.

Lately, Congress, convinced of these inconveniences, have
gone into the measure of appointing Boards. But this is, in my
opinion, a bad plan.

A single man, in each department of the administration,
would be greatly preferable. It would give us a chance of more
knowledge, more activity, more responsibility, and, of course,
more zeal and attention. Boards partake of a part of the incon-
veniences of larger assemblies. Their decisions are slower, their
energy less, their responsibility more diffused. They wiU not

^T.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 155

have the same abilities and knowledge as an administration by
single men. Men of the first pretensions will not so readily en-
gage in them ; because they will be less conspicuous, of less im-
portance, have less opportunity of distinguishing themselves.
The members of Boards will take less pains to inform themselves
and arrive to eminence, because they have fewer motives to do
it. All these reasons conspire to give a preference to the plan
of vesting the gTeat executive departments of the State in the
hands of individuals. As these men will be, of course, at all
times under the direction of Congress, we shall blend the advan-
tages of a Monarchy and Republic in our constitution.

A question has been made, whether single men could be
found to undertake these offices. I think they could ; because
there would be then every thing to excite the ambition of candi-
dates. But, in order to this, Congress, by their manner of ap-
pointing them, and the line of duty marked out, must show that
they are in earnest in making these officers, officers of real trust
and importance.

I fear a little vanity has stood in the way of these arrange-
ments, as though they would lessen the importance of Congress,
and leave them nothing to do. But they would have precisely
the same rights and powers as heretofore, happily disencumbered
of the detail. They would have to inspect the conduct of their
ministers, deliberate upon their plans, originate others for the
public good ; only observing this rule : that they ought to con-
sult their ministers, and get all the information and advice they
could from them, before they entered into any new measures, or
made changes in the old.

A third defect is, the fluctuating constitution of our army.
This has been a pregnant source of evil : all our military misfor-
tunes, three-fourths of our civil embarrassments, are to be ascribed
to it. The General has so fully enumerated the mischiefs of it,
in a letter of the , to Congress, that I could only re-

peat what he has said, and will therefore refer you to that letter.

The imperfect and unequal provision made for the army, is a
fourth defect, which you will find delineated in the same letter.
Without a speedy change, the army must dissolve. It is now a

156 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 23.

mob, rather than an army ; without clothing, without pay, with-
out provision, without morals, without discipline. We begin to
hate the country for its neglect of us. The country begin to
hate us for our oppressions of them. Congress have long been
jealous of us. We have now lost all confidence in them, and
give the worst construction to all they do. Held together by the
slenderest ties, we are ripening for a dissolution.

The present mode of supplying the army, by State purchases,
is not one of the least considerable defects of our system. It is
too precarious a dependence ; because the States will never be
sufficiently impressed with our necessities. Each will make its
own ease a primary object ; the supply of the army a secondary
one. The variety of channels through which the business is
transacted, will multiply the number of persons employed, and
the opportunities of embezzling public money. From the popu-
lar spirit on which most of the Governments turn, the State
agents will be men of less character and ability : nor will there
be so rigid a responsibility among them, as there might easily be
among those in the employ of the Continent ; of course, not so
much diligence, care, or economy. Very little of the money
raised in the several States, will go into the Continental treasury,
on pretence, that it is all exhausted in providing the quotas of
supplies ; and the public will be without funds for the other de-
mands of Government. The expense will be ultimately much
greater, and the advantages much smaller. AYe actually feel the
insufficiency of this plan ; and have reason to dread, under it, a
ruinous extremity of want.

These are the principal defects, in the present system, that
now occur to me. There are many inferior ones, in the organi-
zation of particular departments, and many errors of administra-
tion, which might be pointed out ; but the task would be trouble-
some and tedious : and if we had once remedied those I have
mentioned, the others would not be attended with much dif-
ficulty.

I shall now propose the remedies, which appear to me ap-
plicable to our circumstances, and necessary to extricate our
affairs fi'om their present deplorable situation.

JEr.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 157

The first step must be, to give Congress powers competent to
the pubhc exigencies. This may happen in two ways : one, by
resuming and exercising the discretionary powers I suppose to
have been originally vested in them, for the safety of the States ;
and resting their conduct on the candor of their countrymen,
and the necessity of the conjuncture : the other, by calling im-
mediately a Convention of all the States, with full authority to
conclude finally upon a General Confederation ; stating to them,
beforehand, explicitly, the evils arising from a want of power in
Congress, and the impossibility of supporting the contest on its
present footing ; that the delegates may come, possessed of proper
sentiments, as well as proper authority, to give ef&cacy to the
meeting. Their commission should include a right of vesting
Congress with the whole, or a proportion, of the unoccupied
lands, to be employed for the purpose of raising a revenue : re-
serving the jurisdiction to the States by whom they are granted.

The first plan, I expect, will be thought too bold an expedi-
ent, by the generality of Congress; and, indeed, their practice
hitherto, has so riveted the opinion of their want of power, that
the success of this experiment may very well be doubted.

I see no objection to the other mode, that has any weiglit, in
competition with the reasons for it. The Convention should
assemble the first of November next. The sooner the better.
Our disorders are too violent to admit of a common or lingering
remedy. The reasons for which I require them to be vested
with plenipotentiary authority, are, that the business may suffer
no delay in the execution ; and may, in reality, come to eftect.
A Convention may agree upon a Confederation : the States,
individually, hardly ever will. We must have one at all events,
and a vigorous one, if we mean to succeed in the contest, and be
happy hereafter. As I said before, to engage the States to com-
ply with this mode. Congress ought to confess to them, plainly
and unanimously, the impracticability of supporting our afiairs
on the present footing, and without a solid coercive union. I
ask, that the Convention should have a power of vesting the
whole, or a part, of the unoccupied lands in Congress ; because it is
necessary that body should have some property, as a fund for the

158 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 23.

arrangements of finance ; and I know of no other kind tkat can
be given them.

The Confederation, in my opinion, shoukl give Congress
complete sovereignty ; except as to that part of internal police,
which relates to the rights of property and life among indi-
viduals, and to raising money by internal taxes. It is necessary
that every thing belonging to this, should be regulated by the
State legislatures. Congress should have complete sovereignty in
all that relates to war, peace, trade, finance ; and to the manage-
ment of foreign affairs ; the right of declaring war ; of raising
armies, officering, paying them, directing their motions in every
respect ; of equipping fleets, and doing the same with them ; of
building fortifications, arsenals, magazines, etc., etc. ; of making
peace on such conditions as they think proper ; of regulating
trade, determining with what countries it shall be carried on ;
granting indulgencies ; laying prohibitions on all the articles of
export, or import; imposing duties; granting bounties and
premiums for raising, exporting, or importing, and applying to
their own use, the product of these duties ; only giving credit to
the States on whom they are raised, in the general account of
revenues and expenses ; instituting Admiralty Courts, etc. ; of
coining money ; establishing Banks on such terms, and with
such privileges, as they think proper ; appropriating funds, and
doing whatever else relates to the operations of finance ; trans-
acting every thing with foreign nations ; making alliances, ofien-
sive and defensive ; treaties of commerce, etc., etc.

The Confederation should provide certain perpetual revenues,
productive, and easy of collection ; a land tax, poll tax, or the
like ; which, together with the duties on trade, and the unlo-
cated lands, would give Congress a substantial existence, and a
stable foundation for their schemes of finance. What more
suppHes were necessary, should be occasionally demanded of the
States, in the present mode of quotas.

The second step I would recommend, is, that Congress
should instantly appoint the following great officers of State.
A Secretary for Foreign Afiairs, a President of War, a President
of Marine, a Financier, a President of Trade. Instead of this

tEt. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 159

last, a Board of Trade may be preferable, as the regulations of
trade are slow and gradual ; and require prudence and experi-
ence more than other qualities ; for which Boards are very well
adapted.

Congress should choose for these of&ces, men of the first
abilities, property, and character, in the Continent ; and such as
have had the best opportunities of being acquainted with the
several branches. Greneral Schuyler, whom you mentioned,
would make an excellent President of War ; General M'Dougall
a very good President of Marine. Mr, Robert Morris would
have many things in his favor for the department of finance.
He could, by his own personal influence, give great weight to the
measures he should adopt. I dare say men, equally capable,
may be found for the other departments.

I know not if it would not be a good plan to let the Finan-
cier be President of the Board of Trade ; but he should only
have a casting voice in determining questions there. There
is a connection between trade and finance, which ought to make
the director of one acquainted with the other ; but the Financier
should not direct the afiiairs of trade, because, for the sake of
acquiring reputation by increasing the revenues, he might adopt
measures that would depress trade. In what relates to finance,
he should be alone.

These officers should have nearly the same powers and func-
tions as those in France analogous to them : and each should be
Chief in his department ; with subordinate Boards, composed of
assistants, clerks, etc., to execute his ordej-s.

In my opinion, a plan of this kind woiild be of inconceivable
utility to our affairs : its benefits would be very speedily felt.
It would give new life and energy to the operations of Govern-
ment. Business would be conducted with dispatch, method,
and system. A million of abuses, now existing, would be cor-
rected; and judicious plans would be formed and executed for
the public good.

Another step of immediate necessity, is, to recruit the army
for the war, or at least for three years. This must be done by a
mode similar to that which is practised in Sweden. There the

160 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

inhabitants are thrown into classes of sixteen; and when the
sovereign wants men, each of these classes must furnish one.
They raise a fixed sum of money ; and if one of the class is
willing to become a soldier, he receives the money and ofiers
himself a volunteer. If none is found to do this, a draught is
made ; and he on whom the lot falls, receives the money, and is
obliged to serve.

The minds of the people are prepared for a thing of this
kind. The heavy bounties they have been obliged to pay for
men to serve a few months, must have disgusted them with this
mode, and made them desirous of another, that will, once for
all, answer the public purposes, and obviate a repetition of the
demand. It ought, by all means, to be attempted ; and Congress
should frame a general plan, and press the execution upon the
States.

When the Confederation comes to be framed, it ought to
provide for this by a fundamental law; and hereafter there
would be no doubt of the success.

But we cannot now wait for this. We want to replace the men
whose times of service will expire the first of January : for then,
without this, we shall have no army remaining ; and the enemy
may do what they please. The General, in his letter already
quoted, has assigned the most substantial reasons for paying
immediate attention to this point.

Congress should endeavor, both upon their credit in Europe,
and by every possible exertion in this country, to provide cloth-
ing for their ofl&cers ; and should abolish the whole system of
State supplies. The making good the depreciation of the cur-
rency, and all other compensations to the army, should be
immediately taken up by Congress, and not left to the States.
If they would have the accounts of depreciation liquidated, and
governmental certificates given for what is due, in specie, or an
equivalent to specie, it would give satisfaction ; appointing peri-
odical settlements for future depreciation.

The placing the officers upon half-pay during life, would
be a great stroke of policy ; and would give Congress a stronger
tie upon them than any thing else they can do. No man, that

iET.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 161

reflects a moment, but will prefer a permanent provision of this
kind to any temporary compensation. Nor is it opposed to econ-
omy : the difference between this, and between what has already
been done, will be insignificant. The benefit of it to the widows
should be confined to those whose husbands die during the war.
As to the survivors, not more than one half, on the usual calcu-
lation of men's lives, will exceed the seven years for which the
half-pay is already established. Beside this, whatever may be
the visionary speculations of some men at this time, we shall
find it indisj)ensable, after the war, to keep on foot a consider-
able body of troops : and all the ofiicers, retained for this pur-
pose, must be deducted out of the half-pay list. If any one will
take the pains to calculate the expense of these principles, I am
persuaded he will find the addition of expense, from the estab-
lishment proposed, by no means a national object.

The advantages of securing the attachment of the army to
Congress, and binding them to the service by substantial ties,
are immense. We should then have discipline ; an army in re-
ality, as well as in name. Congress would then have a solid
basis of authority and consequence : for, to me, it is an axiom,
that in our constitution, an army is essential to the American
Union.

The providing of supplies, is the pivot of every thing else
(though a well-constituted army would, not in a small degree,
conduce to this, by giving consistency and weight to Govern-
ment). There are four ways, all of which must be united : A
foreign loan ; heavy pecuniary taxes ; a tax in kind ; a Bank
founded on public and private credit.

As to a foreign loan, I dare say Congress are doing every
thing in their power to obtain it. The most effectual way will
be to tell France, that, without it, we must make terms with
Great Britain. This must be done with plainness and firmness ;
but with respect, and without petulance; not as a menace, but
as a candid declaration of our circumstances.

We need not fear to be deserted by France. Her interest and
honor are too deeply involved in our fate ; and she can make no
possible compromise. She can assist us, if she is convinced it is

VOL. I. 11

162 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23

absolutely necessary ; either by lending us, herself, or by becom-
ing our surety, or by influencing Spain. It has been to me
astonishing, how any man could have doubted, at any period of
our affairs, of the necessity of a foreign loan. It was self-evident,
that we had not a fund of wealth in this country caj)able of af-
fording revenues equal to the expenses. We must then create
artificial revenues, or borrow. The first was done ; but it ought
to have been foreseen that the expedient could not last, and we
should have provided in time for its failure.

Here was an error of Congress. I have good reason to be-
lieve, that measures were not taken, in earnest, early enough to
procure a loan abroad. I give you my honor, that from our first
outset, I thought as I do now, and wished for a foreign loan;
not only because I foresaw it would be essential, but because I
considered it as a tie upon the nation from which it was derived,
and as a mean to prop our cause in Europe.

Concerning the necessity of heavy pecuniary taxes, I need
say nothing ; as it is a point in which every body is agreed. Nor
is there any danger, that the product of any taxes, raised in this
way, will overburthen the people, or exceed the wants of the
public. Indeed, if all the paper in circulation were drawn annu-
ally into the treasury, it would neither do one nor the other.

As to a tax in kind, the necessity of it results from this prin-
ciple : that the money in circulation is not a sufiicient represen-
tative of the productions of the country ; and, consequently, no
revenues, raised fi:-om it as a medium, can be a competent repre-
sentative of that part of the products of the country which it is
bound to contribute to the support of the public. The public,
therefore, to obtain its due, or satisfy its just demands, and its
wants, must call for a part of those products themselves. This
is done in all those countries which are not commercial : in Eus-
sia, Prussia, Denmark, Sweden, etc., and is j^eculiarly necessary
in our case.

Congress, in calling for specific supplies, seem to have had
this in view ; but their intention has not been answered. The
States, in general, have undertaken to furnish supplies by pur-
chase ; a mode, as I have observed, attended with every incon-

Mt.23.] correspondence. 163

venience, and subverting the principle on wliicli the supplies
were demanded ; the insufficiency of our circulating medium as a
representative for the labor and commodities of the country. It
is therefore necessary that Congress should be more explicit;
should form the outlines of a plan for a tax in kind, and recom-
mend it to the States as a measure of absolute necessity.

The general idea I have of a plan, is, that a respectable man
should be appointed by the State, in each county, to collect the
taxes and form magazines ; that Congress should have, in each
State, an officer to superintend the whole ; and that the State
collectors should be subordinate and responsible to them. This
Continental Superintendent might be subject to the general direc-
tion of the Quarter-Master-General, or not, as might be deemed
best; but if not subject to him, he should be obliged to make
monthly returns to the President at War, who should instruct
him what proportion to deliver to the Quarter-Master-General.
It may be necessary, that the Superintendents should sometimes
have power to dispose of the articles in their possession, on public
account ; for it would happen, that the contributions, in places
remote from the army, could not be transported to the theatre of
operations without too great expense ; in which case it would be
eligible to dispose of them, and purchase, with the money so
raised, in the countries near the immediate scene of war.

I know the objections which may be raised to this plan ; its
tendency to discourage industry, and the like. But necessity
calls for it. We cannot proceed Avithout it : and less evils must
give place to greater. It is, besides, practised with success in
other countries, and why not in this ? It may be said, the ex-
amples cited are from nations under despotic governments ; and
that the same would not be practicable with us. But I contend,
where the public good is evidently the object, more may be
effected in governments like ours, than in any other. It has
been a constant remark, that free countries have ever paid the
heaviest taxes. The obedience of a free people to general laws,
however hard they bear, is ever more perfect than that of slaves
to the arbitrary will of a prince. To this may be added, that
Sweden was always a free government ; and is so now, in a great
degree, notwithstanding the late revolution.

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

How far it ma}'' be practicable to erect a Bank on tbe joint
credit of the public and of individuals, can only be certainly-
determined by the experiment. But it is of so much importance,
that tbe experiment ought to be fully tried. When I saw the
subscriptions going on to the Bank established for supplying the
army, I was in hopes it was only the embryo of a more perma-
nent and extensive establishment. But I have reason to believe
I shall be disappointed. It does not seem to be at all conducted
on the true principles of a Bank.

The Directors of it are purchasing with their Stock, instead of
Bank notes, as I expected: in consequence of which, it must turn
out to be a mere subscription of a particular sum of money for a
particular purpose.

Paper credit never was long supported in any country, on a
national scale, where it was not founded on a joint basis of public
and private credit. An attempt to establish it on public credit
alone, in France, under the auspices of Mr. Law, had nearly ruin-
ed the kingdom. We have seen the effects of it in America;
and every successive experiment, proves the futility of the at-
tempt. Our new money is depreciating almost as fast as the old ;
though it has, in some States, as real funds as paper money ever
had. The reason is, that the moneyed men have not an immedi-
ate interest to uphold its credit. They may even, in many ways,
find it their interest to undermine it. The only certain manner
to obtain a permanent paper credit, is to engage the moneyed
interest immediately in it, by making them contribute the whole,
or part of the Stock, and giving them the whole, or part of the
profits.

The invention of Banks, on the modern principle, originated
in Venice. There the public, and a Company of moneyed men,
are mutually concerned. The Bank of England unites public
authority and faith with private credit : and hence we see, what
a vast fabric of paper credit is raised on a visionary basis. Had
it not been for this, England would never have found sufficient
funds to carry on her wars : but, with the help of this, she has
done, and is doing, wonders. The Bank of Amsterdam is on a
similar foundation.

Mt.23.] correspondence. 165

And wliy can we not have an American Bank ? Are our
moneyed men less enlightened to their own interest, or less en-
terprising in the pursuit ? I believe the fault is in Government,
which does not exert itself to engage them in such a scheme. It
is true, the individuals in America are not very rich ; but this
would not prevent their instituting a Bank ; it would only pre-
vent its being done with such ample funds as in other countries.
Have they not sufficient confidence in the Government, and in
the issue of the cause ? Let the Government endeavor to inspire
that confidence, by adopting the measures I have recommended,
or others equivalent to them. Let it exert itself to procure a
solid Confederation ; to establish a good plan of executive ad-
ministration ; to form a permanent military force ; to obtain, at
all events, a foreign loan. If these things were in a train of vig-
orous execution, it would give a new spring to our affairs ; Gov-
ernment would recover its respectability, and individuals would
renounce their diffidence.

The object I should propose to myself, in the first instance,
from a Bank, would be an auxiliary mode of supplies ; for which
purpose, contracts should be made, between Government and the
Bank, on terms liberal and advantageous to the latter. Every
thing should be done, in the first instance, to encourage the
Bank. After it gets well established, it will take care of itself;
and Government may make the best terms it can, for itself.

The first step to establishing the Bank, will be to engage a
number of moneyed men of influence to relish the project, and
make it a business. The subscribers to that lately established,
are the fittest persons that can be found ; and their plan may be
interwoven.

The outlines of my plan would be, to open subscriptions in
all the States,ifor the Stock, which we will suppose to be one
million of pounds. Eeal property of every kind, as well as spe-
cie, should be deemed good Stock ; but at least a fourth part of
the subscription should be in specie, or plate. There should be
one great Company, in three divisions : in Virginia, Philadelphia,
and at Boston ; or two at Philadelphia and Boston. The Bank
should have a right to issue Bank notes, bearing two per cent.

166 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

interest, for tlie whole of their stock; but not to exceed it.
These notes may be payable every three months, or oftener : and
the faith of government must be pledged for the support of the
Bank. It must therefore have a right, from time to time, to in-
spect its operations, and must appoint inspectors for the purpose.

The advantages of the Bank may consist in this : in the
profits of the contracts made with Grovernment, which should
bear interest to be annually paid in specie ; in the loan of money
at interest, say six per cent. ; in purchasing lives by annuities, as
practised in England, etc. The benefit resulting to the Compa-
ny, is evident from the consideration, that they may employ, in
circulation, a great deal more money than they have specie in
Stock, on the credit of the real property which they Avill have in
other use. This money will be employed, either in fulfilling
their contracts with the public, by which also they will gain a
profit ; or in loans at an advantageous interest, or in annuities.

The Bank may be allowed to purchase plate and bullion, and
coin money ; allowing Government a part of the profit. I make
the Bank notes bear interest, to obtain a readier currency, and
to induce the holders to prefer them to specie, to prevent too
great a run upon the Bank, at any time, beyond its ability to pay.

If Government can obtain a foreign loan, it should lend to
the Bank, on easy terms, to extend its influence, and facilitate a
compliance with its engagements. If Government could engage
the States to raise a sum of money in specie, to be deposited in
Bank in the same manner, it would be of the greatest conse-
quence. If Government could prevail on the enthusiasm of the
people, to make a contribution in plate for the same purpose, it
would be a master-stroke. Things of this kind sometimes suc-
ceed in popular contests ; and, if undertaken with address, I
should not despair of its success : but I should not be sanguine.

The Bank may be instituted for a term of years by way of
trial; and the particular privilege of coining money, be for a
term still shorter. A temporary- transfer of it to a particular
Company, can have no inconvenience, as the Government are in
no condition to improve this resource ; nor could it, in our cir-
cumstances, be an object to them; though, with the industry of
a knot of individuals, it might be a valuable one to them.

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 167

A Bank of this kind, even in its commencement, would an-
swer tlie most valuable purposes to Government and to the pro-
prietors : in its progress, the advantages will exceed calculation.
It will promote commerce, by furnishing a more extensive medi-
um, which we greatly want, in our circumstances. I mean a
more extensive valuable medium. We have an enormous nomi-
nal one at this time, but it is only a name.

In the present unsettled state of things in this country, we
can hardly draw inferences from what has happened in others ;
otherwise I should be certain of the success of this scheme : but
I think it has enough in its favor to be worthy of trial.

I have only skimmed the surface of the different subjects I
have introduced. Should the plans recommended come into
contemplation, in earnest, and you desire my further thoughts, I
will endeavor to give them more form and particularity. I am
persuaded a solid Confederation, a permanent army, a reasonable
prospect of subsisting it, would give us treble consideration in
Europe, and produce a peace this winter.

If a Convention is called, the minds of all the States, and the
people, ought to be prepared to receive its determinations by
sensible and popular writings, which should conform to the views
of Congress. There are epochs in human affairs when novelty
even is useful. If a general opinion prevails that the old way is
bad, whether true or false, and this obstructs or relaxes the op-
erations of the public service, a change is necessary, if it be but
for the sake of change. This is exactly the case now. 'Tis a
universal sentiment, that our present system is a bad one, and
that things do not go right on this account. The measure of a
Convention would revive the hopes of , the people, and give a
new direction to their passions, which may be improved in car-
rying points of substantial utility. The eastern States have al-
ready pointed out this mode to Congress : they ought to take
the hint and anticipate the others.

And, in future, my dear sir, two things let me recommend, as
fundamental rules for the conduct of Congress: to attach the
army to them by every motive ; to maintain an air of authority
(not domineering) in all their measures with the States. The

168 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

manner in whicli a thing is done, has more influence than is
commonly imagined. Men are governed by opinion : this opin-
ion is as much influenced by appearances as by reahties, K a
Government appears to be confident of its own powers, it is the
surest way to inspire the same confidence in others. If it is dif-
fident, it may be certain there will be a still greater difiidence in
others ; and that its authority will not only be distrusted, contro-
verted, but contemned.

I wish, too, Congress would always consider, that a kindness
consists as much in the manner as in the thing. The best things
done hesitatingly, and with an ill gTace, lose their effect, and
produce disgust rather than satisfaction or gratitude. In what
Congress have at any time done for the army, they have com-
monly been too late. They have seemed to yield to importunity,
rather than to sentiments of justice or to a regard to the accom-
modation of their troops. An attention to this idea, is of more
importance than it may be thought. I, who have seen all the
workings and progress of the present discontents, am convinced,
that a want of this has not been among the most inconsiderable
causes.

You will perceive, my dear sir, this letter is hastily written,
and with a confidential freedom : not as to a member of Con-
gress, whose feelings may be sore at the prevailing clamors ; but
as to a friend, who is in a situation to remedy public disorders ;
who wishes for nothing so much as truth ; and who is desirous
of information, even from those less capable of judging than
himself. I have not even time to correct and copy ; and only
enough to add, that I am, very truly and affectionately, dear sir,

• Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 169

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

1780.

My Dear Sir:

Your favor of tlie 17tli I received on that day. That of the
13th has taken a tour to Albany and was delivered me this
moment.

Commissioners will be appointed to meet the Eastern Con-
vention; I believe Judge Hubbard, Mr. Benson, the Attorney
General, and myself, will go ; the two gentlemen I have men-
tioned are as deeply impressed as men can be with the necessity
of more power in the directing Qouncils, or what would be better

in our present situation, • . The lower house are for it,

but the upper timid, although heartily disposed to every mea-
sure which will give vigor.

I was too much indisposed to undertake the journey to Hart-
ford, and continue so much so that I am obliged to quit this
before the Legislature rises.

I am informed Gates is to have the thanks of the Senate for
not despairing of the Commonwealth, but that they do not mean
to tread wholly in the steps of the Romans, and confine him to
subordinate commands ; he is to have a potent army, and to drive
Cornwallis and his crew into the sea with more rapidity than he
flew to Hillsborough.

Pray entreat the General and the gentlemen of his family to
accept of my best wishes, in which you always partake.

I am, dear Sir,

Affectionately yours, etc.,

P. Schuyler.

Col. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MISS SCHUYLER.

September 6, 1780.
Most people here are groaning under a very disagreeable
piece of intelligence just come from the southward, that Gates
has had a total defeat near Camden, in South Carolina. Corn-

170 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

wallis and lie met in tlie niglit of tlie fifteenth, by accident,
marcliing to tlie same point. The advanced guards skirmished,
and the two armies halted and formed till morning. In the
morning a battle ensued, in which the militia, and Gates with
them, immediately ran away, and left the Continental troops to
contend with the enemy's whole force.

They did it obstinately, and probably are most of them cut
off. Gates, however, who writes to Congress, seems to know
very little what has become of his army. He showed that age
and the long labors and fatigues of a military life had not in the
least impaired his activity, for in three days and a half he reached
Hillsborough, one hundred and eighty miles from the scene of
action, leaving all his troops to take care of themselves, and get
out of the scrape as well as they could.

He has confirmed, in this instance, the opinion I always had
of him. This event will have very serious consequences to the
southward. People's imaginations have already given up North
Carolina and Virginia ; but I do not believe either of them will
fall. I am certain Virginia cannot. This misfortune affects me
less than others, because it is not in my temper to repine at evils
that are past, but to endeavor to draw good out of them, and
because I think our safety depends on a total change of system,
and this change of system will only be produced by misfortune.

A. Hamilton,

HAMILTON TO DUANE.

September 6, 1780.

My Dear Sir:

The letter accompanying this has lain by two or three days
for want of an opportunity. I have heard since of Gates's defeat :
a very good comment on the necessity of changing our system.
His passion for militia, I fancy, will be a little cured, and he will
cease to think them the best bulwark of American liberty.
What think you of the conduct of this great man ? I am his

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 171

enemy personally, for unjust and unprovoked attacks ujDon my
character ; therefore what I say of him ought to be received as
from an enemy, and have no more weight than as it is consist-
ent with fact and common sense. But did ever any one hear of
such a disposition or such a flight ? His best troops placed on
the side strongest by nature, his worst on that weakest by nature,
and his attack made with these. 'Tis impossible to give a more
complete picture of military absurdity. It is equally against the
maxims of AYar and common sense. We see the consequences.
His left ran away, and left his right uncovered. His right wing
turned on the left has in all probability been cut off. Though,
in truth, the General seems to have known very little what
became of his army.

Had he placed his militia on his right, supported by the
morass, and his Continental troops on his left, where it seems
he was most vulnerable, his right would have been more secure,
and his left would have opposed the enemy ; and instead of
going backward when he ordered to attack, would have gone
forward. The reverse of what has happened might have hap-
pened.

But was there ever an instance of a General running away,
as Gates has done, from his whole army ? And was there ever
so precipitous a flight ? One hundred and eighty miles in three
days and a half It does admirable credit to the activity of a
man at his time of life. But it disgraces the General and the
soldier. I always believed him to be very far short of a Hector,
or a Ulysses. All the world, I think, will begin to agree
with me.

But what will be done by Congress ? Will he be changed
or not ? If he is changed, for God's sake overcome prejudice,
and send Greene. You know my opinion of him. I stake my
reputation on the events, give him but fair play.

But, above all things, let us have, without delay, a vigorous
government, and a well constituted army for the war.

Adieu, my dear Sir,

A. Hamilton.

172 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

COL. FLEUEY TO HAMILTON.

Boston, September 7, 1780.

If you do write to me, direct your letters to General Heath,
and under his cover. I cannot tell why till I see you ; I want
it much.

The enemy have left Martha's Vineyard. It is reported they
sailed to the southward.

I beg you would remember me to my friend Laurens ; I have
written to him, but he keeps silent.

I do not like your situation at Lee's Fort : you throw the
glove to Clinton ; he will take it, and we are not near enough to
be your seconds. Our sick increase; not much; but they in-
crease.

Farewell, your servant and friend,

F * * Y.

HAMILTON TO LAURENS.

September, 1780.

Since my return from Hartford, my dear Laurens, my mind
has been too little at ease to permit me to write to you sooner.
It has been wholly occupied by the affecting and tragic conse-
quences of Arnold's treason. My feelings were never put to so
severe a trial. You will no doubt have heard the principal facts
before this reaches you. But there are particulars, to which my
situation gave me access, that cannot have come to your know-
ledge from public report, which I am j^ersuaded you will find
interesting.

From several circumstances, the project seems to have origi-
nated with Arnold himself, and to have been long premeditated.
The first overture is traced back to some time in June last. It
was conveyed in a letter to Colonel Eobinson ; the substance
of which was, that the ingratitude he had experienced from his

^T.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 173

country, concurring witli other causes, had. entirely changed his
principles ; that he now only sought to restore himself to the
favor of his king, by some signal proof of his repentance ; and
would be haj)py to open a correspondence with Sir Henry
Clinton for that purpose. About this period he made a journey
to Connecticut : on his return from which to Philadelphia,
he solicited the command of West Point ; alleging that the
effects of his wounds had disqualified him for the active duties
of the field. The sacrifice of this important post was the atone-
ment he intended to make. General Washington hesitated the
less to gratify an of&cer who had rendered such eminent services,
as he was convinced the post might be safely intrusted to one
who had given so many distinguished specimens of his bravery.
In the beginning of August he joined the army and renewed his
application. The enemy, at this juncture, had embarked the
greatest part of their forces on an expedition to Rhode Island ;
and our army was in motion to compel them to relinquish the
enterprise, or to attack New- York in its weakened state. The
General offered Arnold the left wing of the army, which he
declined, on the pretext already mentioned, biit not without
visible embarrassment. He certainly might have executed the
duties of such a temporary command ; and it was expected from
his enterprising temper, that he would gladly have embraced so
splendid an opportunity. But he did not choose to be diverted
a moment from his favorite object ; probably from an appre-
hension that some different disposition might have taken place,
which would have excluded him. The extreme solicitude he
discovered to get possession of the post, would have led to a
suspicion of treachery, had it been possible, from his past con-
duct, to have supposed him capable of it.

The correspondence thus begun, was carried on between
Arnold and Major Andre, Adjutant-General to the British army,
in behalf of Sir Henry Clinton, under feigned signatures, and in
a mercantile disguise. In an intercepted letter of Arnold's,
which lately fell into our hands, he proposes an interview, " to
settle the risks and profits of the copartnership ;" and, in the
same style of metaphor, intimates an expected augmentation of

1T4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

tlie garrison ; and speaks of it as tlie means of extending their
traffic. It appears, by another letter, that Andre was to have
met him on the hnes, under the sanction of a flag, in the char-
acter of Mr. John Anderson, But some cause or other, not
known, prevented this interview.

The twentieth of last month, Eobinson and Andr6 went up
the river in the Vulture sloop-of-war. Eobinson sent a flag to
Arnold with two letters ; one to General Putnam, inclosed in
another to himself; proposing an interview with Putnam, or, in
his absence, with Arnold, to adjust some private concerns. The
one to General Putnam, was evidently meant as a cover to the
other, in case, by accident, the letters should have fallen under
the inspection of a third person.

General Washington crossed the river, on his way to Hartford,
the day these dispatches arrived. Arnold, conceiving he must
have heard of the flag, thought it necessary, for the sake of
appearances, to submit the letters to him, and ask his opinion of
the propriety of complying with the request. The General,
with his usual caution, though without the least surmise of the
design, dissuaded him from it, and advised him to reply to
Robinson, that whatever related to his private affairs, must be
of a civil nature, and could only properly be addressed to the
civil authority. This reference fortunately deranged the plan ;
and was the first link in the chain of events that led to the de-
tection. The interview could no longer take place in the form
of a flag, but was obliged to be managed in a secret manner.

Arnold employed one Smith to go on board the Vulture the
night of the twenty-second, to bring Andre on shore, with a pass
for Mr. John Anderson. Andre came ashore accordingly ; and
was conducted within a picket of ours to the house of Smith,
where Arnold and he remained together in close conference all
that night and the day following. At daylight in tlie morning,
the commanding of&cer at King's Ferry, without the privity of
Arnold, moved a couple of pieces of cannon to a point opposite
to where the Vulture lay, and obliged her to take a more remote
station. This event, or some lurking distrust, made the boatmen
refuse to convey the two passengers back, and disconcerted

.Et. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 175

Arnold so mucli, that by one of those strokes of infatuation which
often confound the schemes of men conscious of guilt, he insisted
on Andre's exchanging his uniform for a disguise, and returning
in a mode diflerent from that in which he came. Andre, who
had been undesignedly brought within our posts in the first
instance, remonstrated warmly against this new and dangerous
expedient. But Arnold persisting in declaring it impossible for
him to return as he came, he at length reluctantly yielded to his
direction, and consented to change his dress, and take the route
he recommended. Smith furnished the disguise, and in the
evening passed King's Ferry with him, and proceeded to Crom-
pond, where they stopped the remainder of the night, at the
instance of a militia of&cer, to avoid being suspected by him.
The next morning they resumed their journe}^, Smith accom-
panying Andre a little beyond Pine's Bridge, where he left him.
He had reached Tarrytown, when he was taken up by thr^e
militia men, who rushed out of the woods and seized his horse.

At this critical moment, his presence of mind forsook him.
Instead of producing his pass, which would have extricated him
fi'om our parties, and could have done him no harm with his
own, he asked the militia men, if they were of the upper or lower
party ; distinctive appellations known among the enemy's refugee
corps. The militia men replied, they were of the lower party ;
upon which he told them he was a British officer, and pressed
them not to detain him, as he was upon urgent business. This
confession removed all doubts ; and it was in vain he afterwards
produced his pass. He was instantly forced off to a place of
greater security, where, after a careful search, there were found,
concealed in the feet of his stockings, several jDapers of import-
ance, delivered to him by Arnold ! Among these, Avere a plan
of the fortifications of West Point ; a memorial from the engineer
on the attack and defence of the place ; returns of the garrison,
cannon, and stores ; copy of the minutes of a council of war
held by General Washington a few weeks before. The prisoner,
at first, was inadvertently ordered to Arnold ; but on recollec-
tion, while still on the way, he was countermanded, and sent to
Old Salem. The papers were inclosed in a letter to General

176 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 23.

Washington, whicli, having taken a route different from that by
which he returned, made a circuit that afforded leisure for
another letter, through an ill-judged delicacy, written to Arnold
with information of Anderson's capture, to get to him an hour
before General Washington arrived at his quarters ; time enough
to elude the fate that awaited him. He went down the river in
his barge to the Vulture with such precipitate confusion, that he
did not take with him a single paper useful to the enemy. On
the first notice of the affair, he was pursued, but much too late
to be overtaken.

There was some color for imagining it was a part of the
plan to betray the General into the hands of the enemy. Arnold
was very anxious to ascertain from him the precise day of his
return ; and the enemy's movements seem to have corresponded
to this point. But if it was really the case, it was very injudi-
cious. The success must have depended on surprise ; and as the
of&cers at the advanced posts were not in the secret, their mea-
sures might have given the alarm ; and General Washington,
taking the command of the post, might have rendered the whole
scheme abortive. Arnold, it is true, had so dispersed the garri-
son, as to have made a defence difiicult, but not impracticable ;
and the acquisition of West Point was of such magnitude to the
enemy, that it would have been unwise to connect it with any
other object, however great, which might make the obtaining of
it precarious.

Arnold, a moment before the setting out, went into Mrs,
Arnold's apartment, and informed her that some transactions had
just come to light, which must for ever banish him from his
country. She fell into a swoon at this declaration : and he left
her in it, to consult his own safety, till the servants, alarmed by
her cries, came to her relief. She remained frantic all day ; ac-
cusing every one who approached her, with an intention to mur-
der her child (an infant in her arms); and exhibiting every
other mark of the most genuine and agonizing distress. Ex-
hausted by the fatigue and tumult of her spirits, her jDhrensy
subsided towards evening, and she sank into all the sadness of
affliction. It was impossible not to have been touched with her

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. HI

situation. Every tiling affecting in female tears, or in the misfor-
tunes of beauty ; every thing pathetic in the wounded tenderness
of a wife, or in the apprehensive fondness of a mother ; and, till
I have reason to change the opinion, I will add, every thing
amiable in suffering innocence ; conspired to make her an ob-
ject of sympathy to all who were present. She experienced
the most delicate attentions, and every friendly of&ce, till her
departure for Philadelphia.

Andre was, without loss of time, conducted to the head
quarters of the army, where he was immediately brought
before a Board of General Officers, to prevent all possibility
of misrepresentation, or cavil on the part of the enemy. The
Board reported, that he ought to be considered as a spy, and,
according to the laws of nations, to suffer death; which was
executed two days after.

Never, perhaps, did any man suffer death with more justice,
or deserve it less. The first step he took, after his capture,
was to write a letter to General Washington, conceived in terms
of dignity without insolence, and apology without meanness.
The scope of it was to vindicate himself from the imputation
of having assumed a mean character for treacherous or inter-
ested purposes ; asserting that he had been involuntarily an im-
postor ; that contrary to his intention, which was to meet a
person for intelligence on neutral ground, he had been betrayed
within our posts, and forced into the vile condition of an enemy
in disguise; soliciting only, that, to whatever rigor policy
might devote him, a decency of treatment might be observed,
due to a person, who, though unfortunate, had been guilty of
nothing dishonorable. His request was granted in its full ex-
tent ; for, in the whole progress of the affair, he was treated with
the most scrupulous delicacy. When brought before the Board
of Officers, he met with every mark of indulgence, and was
required to answer no interrogatory which could even embar-
rass his feelings. On his part, while he carefully concealed
every thing that might involve others, he frankly confessed all
the facts relating to himself; and, upon his confession, without
the trouble of examining a witness, the Board made their

VOL. I. 12

1*78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

Eeport. The members of it were not more imjDressed with the
candor and firmness, mixed with a becoming sensibility, which
he displayed, than he was penetrated with their liberality and
politeness. He acknowledged the generosity of the behavior
towards him in every respect, but particularly in this, in the
strongest terms of manly gratitude. In a conversation with a
gentleman who visited him after his trial, he said he flattered
himself he had never been illiberal ; but if there were any
remains of prejudice in his mind, his present experience must
obliterate them.

In one of the visits I made to him (and I saw him several
times during his confinement), he begged me to be the bearer of
a request to the General, for permission to send an open letter
to Sir Henry Clinton. "I foresee my fate," said he, " and though
I pretend not to play the hero, or to be indifferent about life ;
yet I am reconciled to whatever may happen, conscious that mis-
fortune, not guilt, has brought it upon me. There is only one
thing that disturbs my tranquillity. Sir Henry Clinton has
been too good to me ; he has been lavish of his kindness. I am
bound to him by too many obligations, and love him too well, to
bear the thought, that he should reproach himself, or that others
should reproach him, on the supposition of my having conceived
mj^self obliged, by his instructions, to run the risk I did. I
would not, for the world, leave a sting in his mind that should
imbitter his future days." He could scarce finish the sentence,
bursting into tears in spite of his efforts to suppress them ; and
with difl&culty collected himself enough afterwards to add : "I
wish to be permitted to assure him, I did not act under this
impression, but submitted to a necessity imposed upon me, as
contrary to my own inclination as to his orders." His request
was readily complied with ; and he wrote the letter annexed,
with which I dare say you will be as much pleased as I am, both
for the diction and sentiment.

When his sentence was announced to him, he remarked, that
since it was Ms lot to die, there was still a choice in the mode,
which would make a material difference in his feelings ; and he
would be happy, if possible, to be indulged with a professional

iET.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 179

death. He made a second application, by letter, in concise but
persuasive terms. It was thought this indulgence, being in-
compatible with the customs of war, could not be granted ; and
it was therefore determined, in both cases, to evade an answer,
to spare him the sensations which a certain knowledge of the
intended mode would inflict.

In going to the place of execution, he bowed familiarly as
he went along, to all those with whom he had been acquainted
in his confinement. A smile of complacency expressed the se-
rene fortitude of his mind. Arrived at the fatal spot, he asked,
with some emotion, " Must I then die in this manner ?" He was
told it had been unavoidable. " I am reconciled to my fate,"
said he, "but not to the mode." Soon, however, recollecting
himself, he added: "It will be but a momentary pang :" and,
springing upon the cart, performed the last ofiices to himself,
with a composure that excited the admiration, and melted the
hearts of the beholders. Upon being told the final moment was
at hand, and asked if he had any thing to say, he answered,
" Nothing but to request you will witness to the world, that I
die like a brave man." Among the extraordinary circumstances
that attended him, in the midst of his enemies, he died univer-
sally esteemed and universally regretted.

There was something singularly interesting in the character
and fortunes of Andre. To an excellent understandinsf, well
improved by education and travel, he united a peculiar elegance
of mind and manners, and the advantage of a pleasing j)erson,
' Tis said he possessed a pretty taste for the fine arts, and had
himself attained some proficiency in poetry, music, and painting.
His knowledge appeared without ostentation, and embellished
by a difiidence that rarely accompanies so many talents and ac-
complishments : which left you to suppose more than appeared.
His sentiments were elevated, and inspired esteem : they had a
softness that conciliated affection. His elocution was hand-
some : his address easy, polite, and insinuating. By his merit,
he had acquired the unlimited confidence of his General, and
was making a rapid progress in military rank and reputation.
But in the height of his career, flushed with new hopes from the
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

execution of a project, tlie most beneficial to his party that
could be devised, he was at once precipitated from the summit
of prosperity, and saw all the expectations of his ambition blast-
ed, and himself ruined.

The character I have given of him, is drawn partly from
what I saw of him myself, and partly from information. I am
aware that a man of real merit is never seen in so favorable a
light as through the medium of adversity : the clouds that sur-
round him, are shades that set off his good qualities. Misfor-
tune cuts down the little vanities that, in prosperous times, serve
as so many spots in his virtues ; and gives a tone of humility
that makes his worth more amiable. His spectators, who enjoy
a happier lot, are less prone to detract from it, through envy, and
are more disposed, by compassion, to give him the credit he de-
serves, and perhaps even to magnify it.

I speak not of Andre's conduct in this affair as a philosopher,
but as a man of the world. The authorized maxims and prac-
tices of war, are the satires of human nature. They countenance
almost every species of seduction as well as violence ; and the
General who can make most traitors in the army of his adversa-
sary, is frequently most applauded. On this scale we acquit
Andre ; while we could not but condemn him, if we were to
examine his conduct by the sober rules of philosophy and moral
rectitude. It is, however, a blemish on his fame, that he once
intended to prostitute a flag : about this, a man of nice honor
ought to have had a scruple ; but the temptation was great : let
his misfortunes cast a veil over his error.

Several letters from Sir Henry Clinton and others, were re-
ceived in the course of the affair, feebly attempting to prove, that
Andr^ came out under the protection of a flag, with a passport
from a general ofiicer in actual service ; and consequently could
not be justly detained. Clinton sent a deputation, composed of
Lieutenant-Greneral Eobinson, Mr. Elliot, and Mr. William Smith,
to represent, as he said, the true state of Major Andre's case.
Greneral Greene met Robinson, and had a conversation with him ;
in which he reiterated the pretence of a flag ; urged Andre's re-
lease as a personal favor to Sir Henry Clinton ; and offered any

iET. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 181

friend of ours, in their power, in excliange. Nothing could have
been more frivolous than the plea which was used. The fact
was, that beside the time, manner, object of the interview, change
of dress, and other circumstances, there was not a single formal-
ity customary with flags ; and the passport was not to Major
Andre, but to Mr. Anderson. But had there been, on the con-
trary, all the formalities, it would be an abuse of language to say,
that the sanction of a flag for corrupting an of&cer to betray his
trust, ought to be respected. So unjustifiable a purpose, would
not only destroy its validity, but make it an aggravation.

Andre, himself, has answered the argument, by ridiculing and
exploding the idea, in his examination before the Board of Ofii-
cers. It was a weakness to urge it.

There was, in truth, no way of saving him. Arnold, or he,
must have been the victim : the former was out of our power.

It was by some suspected, Arnold had taken his measures in
such a manner, that if the interview had been discovered in the
act, it might have been in his power to sacrifice Andre to his
own security. This surmise of double treachery, made them
imagine Clinton might be induced to give up Arnold for
Andr6 ; and a gentleman took occasion to suggest this expedi-
ent to the latter, as a thing that might be proposed by him. He
declined it. The moment he had been capable of so much frail-
ty, I should have ceased to esteem him.

The infamy of Arnold's conduct j)revious to his desertion, is
only equalled by his baseness since. Beside the folly of writing
to Sir Henry Clinton, assuring him that Andre had acted under
a passport from him, and according to his directions while com-
manding officer at a post ; and that, therefore, he did not doubt,
he would be immediately sent in ; he had the effrontery to write
to General Washington in the same spirit ; with the addition of
a menace of retaliation, if the sentence should be carried into
execution. He has since acted the farce of sending in his resio;-
nation. This man is, in every sense, despicable. Added to the
scene of knavery and prostitution during his command in Phil-
adelphia, which the late seizure of his papers has unfolded ; the
history of his command at West Point is a history of little, as

182 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 23.

well as great, villanies. He practised every dirty art of pecula-
tion ; and even stooped to connections with tlie suttlers of tlie
garrison, to defraud the public.

To his conduct, that of the captors of Andre forms a striking
contrast. He tempted them with the offer of his watch, his
horse, and any sum of money they should name. They re-
jected his offers with indignation : and the gold that could
seduce a man high in the esteem and confidence of his country,
who had the remembrance of past exploits, the motives of present
reputation and future glory, to prop his integrity, had no charms
for three simple peasants, leaning only on their virtue and an
honest sense of their duty. While Arnold is handed down,
with execration, to future times, posterity will repeat, with reve-
rence, the names of Van "Wart, Paulding, and Williams.

I congratulate you, my friend, on our happy escape from the

mischiefs with which this treason was big. It is a new comment

on the value of an honest man, and if it were possible, would

endear you to me more than ever.

Adieu,

A. Hamilton.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

■PouGHKEEPSiE, Sept. 10, 1780.

My Dear Sir:

I am very apprehensive the unhappy event, mentioned in
your favor of the fifth instant, will draw very serious conse-
quences in its train. It will certainly much embarrass us, and
probably retard the termination of the war. It will, however,
be attended with one good ; the adherents, in Congress, to the
gallant Commander, will not have it any longer in their power
to play him off against the General. Gracious God ! that any
rational being should put two men in competition, one of which
has commanded an army, the other only been at the head of one ;
for I aver, that when he was to the northward, he never made a
disposition of his troops. Indeed he was incapable : he never

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 183

saw an enemy, except at a good distance, and from places of
perfect security. Indeed, indeed, lie has not lost a wliit, in my
estimation, by this stroke of his.

The General will have shown you extracts from the Senate
and Assembly's Addresses to the Governor. A Committee of
both Houses is appointed to report on the proceedings of the
Convention : they will certainly adopt and extend the views of
that Convention. Some here are for appointing a Dictator, with
a Vice Dictator in each State, invested with all the powers con-
ferred formerly by the Roman people on theirs. I made great
interest to be left out of the delegation, and obtained it, although
not without much difficulty. General M'Dougal is appointed in
my stead : but I believe I shall be obliged to go to the eastern
Convention. If so, I shall not repair to Ehode Island so soon
as I intended.

Colonel Warner is wounded, and two of his officers killed
near Fort Edward.

Pray make my respects acceptable to the General, to the
gentlemen of the family, the Marquis, and those of his.

Adieu.
I am, dear Sir,

Very affectionately and sincerely.
Your most obedient servant,

Ph. Schuylee.

I forgot to inform the General that the Governor had sent
him an extract of the proceedings of the Convention which I
had promised to transmit.

SCHUYLEE TO HAMILTON.

PouGHKEEPsiE, September 16, 1780.

Deae Sie:

The great scarcity of wheat before harvest, and the drought
since, has prevented the agent appointed to collect the supply
required from this State, to deliver it to the Issuing Commissary ;

184 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

and we are at least ten thousand barrels in arrears ; the wheat
for all which is already assessed, a considerable quantity of it
brought to the mills to be manufactured, and the remainder
daily collecting. Hence, unless a second drought should j)revail,
our deficiency can be made good in the course of a month : and
this may be relied on. But should the army actually be in
operation, I do not make a doubt but that the hand of Govern-
ment will be laid on all in the country ; and, in that case, a con-
stant supply can be kept up so as to complete to thirty thousand
barrels, and perhaps half as much more, should Congress order
the quota of Pennsylvania (if she deigns to furnish any) to be
sold, and the money transmitted to this State. Exclusive of the
wheat already assessed to complete our quota of flour, the inhab-
itants of Tryon County, and the western part of Albany, are
threshing. This the Legislature has ordered to be purchased for
a State Magazine, should we not be able to purchase the whole.
The whole may, however, be obtained, and without delay, if an
operation takes place : to procure flour casks is the greatest diffi-
culty, I wish those at West Point were ordered to be immedi-
ately put in order : those, and an aid of bags, may be necessary.

I have communed with the Governor on the subject of
M'Henry's wish. He is very much disposed to use his influence
on the occasion, but doubts if he should be able to obtain a
Lieutenancy, unless the Ensigns that now are, could all be pro-
vided for. If M'Henry merely wants mflitary rank for the cam-
paign, and will not accept of an Ensigncy, the Governor can,
and will, give him a Lieutenant-Colonelcy in the State Levies,
which will always give him rank in our militia, and, conse-
quently, in the army, when the militia is in the field. But this
must be determined before the Legislature rises. Please, there-
fore, to desire M'Henry to write me on the subject without
delay, and to assure him of the best services in my power.

If I knew when you would be at Fishkill, if you pass that
way, I would meet you there. Or if I believed it would not be
disagreeable to the General, I would go to Hartford, as I wish to
see the other Sachem.

A spirit favorable to the common cause, has pervaded almost

iEx. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 185

botli Houses. They begin to talk of a Dictator and Vice Dicta-
tors, as if it was a thing that was already determined on. To
the Convention to be held at Hartford, I believe I shall be sent,
with instructions to propose that a Dictator should be appointed.
I have just seen Yan Schaick's whim. There is not one
Lieutenancy vacant.

I have had the inclosed several days with me, for want of a
conveyance. . Please to dispatch the bearer as expeditiously back
as you can. Compliments to all.

I am, dear Sir, affectionately yours, etc.,

Ph. Schuylee.
Colonel Hamilton,

HAMILTON TO GREENE.

25tli September, 1780.

Dear Sir :

There has just been unfolded at this place a scene of the
blackest treason. Arnold has fled to the enemy — Andre, the
British Adjutant General, is in our possession as a spy. His
capture unravelled the mystery.

West Point was to have been the sacrifice. All the dispo-
sitions have been made for the purpose, and 'tis possible, though
not probable, we may still see the execution. The wind is fair.
I came here in pursuit of Arnold, but was too late. I advise
your putting the army under marching orders, and detaching a
brigade immediately this way.

I am, with great regard.

Your most obedient servant,

Alex. Hamilton,

Aid-de-Camp.
To Major General Greene.

186 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

HAMILTON TO MISS SCHUYLER.

September 25, 1780.

Arnold, lieariug of the plot being detected, immediately fled
to the enemy. I went in j)ursuit of him, but was much too late ;
and could hardly regret the disap|)ointment, when, on my return,
I saw an amiable woman, frantic with distress for the loss of a
husband she tenderly loved ; a traitor to his country and to his
fame ; a disgrace to his connections : it was the most affecting
scene I ever was witness to. She, for a considerable time, en-
tirely lost herself The General went up to see her, and she up-
braided him with being in a plot to murder her child. One mo-
ment she raved, another she melted into tears. Sometimes she
pressed her infant to her bosom, and lamented its fate, occasioned
by the imjDrudence of its father, in a manner that would have
pierced insensibility itself. All the sweetness of beauty, all the
loveliness of innocence, all the tenderness of a wife, and all the
fondness of a mother, showed themselves in her appearance and
conduct. We have every reason to beheve, that she was entirely
unacquainted with the plan, and that the first knowledge of it,
was when Arnold went to tell her he must banish himself from
his country and from her for ever. She instantly fell into a con-
vulsion, and he left her in that situation.

This morning she is more composed. I paid her a visit, and
endeavored to soothe her by every method in my power ; though ■
you may imagine she is not easily to be consoled. Added to her
other distresses, she is very apprehensive the resentment of her
country will fall upon her (who is only unfortunate) for the guilt
of her husband.

I have tried to persuade her that her fears are ill founded ;
but she will not be convinced. She received us in bed, with
every circumstance that would interest our sympathy : and her
sufferings were so eloquent, that I wished myself her brother, to
have a right to become her defender. As it is, I have entreated
her to enable me to give her proofs of my friendship. Could I
forgive Arnold for sacrificing his honor, reputation, and duty, I

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 187

could not forgive liim for acting a part that must have forfeited
the esteem of so fine a woman. At present she almost forgets
his crime in his misfortunes ; and her h6rror at the guilt of the
traitor, is lost in her love of the man. But a virtuous mind can-
not long esteem a base one ; and time will make her despise if it
cannot make her hate.

A. Hamilton".

HAMILTON TO MISS SCHUYLER,

Tappan, Oct. 2, 1780.

Poor Andre suffers to-day. Every thing that is amiable in
virtue, in fortitude, in delicate sentiment, and accomplished man-
ners, pleads for him : but hard-hearted policy calls for a sacrifice.

He must die . I send you my account of Arnold's affair ;

and to justify myself to your sentiments, I must inform you, that
I urged a compliance with Andr6's request to be shot ; and I do
not think it would have had an ill effect : but some people are
only sensible to motives of policy, and sometimes, from a nar-
row disposition, mistake it.

When Andre's tale comes to be told, and present resentment
is over ; the refusing him the privilege of choosing the manner
of his death will be branded with too much obstinacy.

It was proposed to me to suggest to him the idea of an ex-
change for Arnold ; but I knew I should have forfeited his es-
teem by doing it, and therefore declined it. As a man of honor
he could not but reject it ; and I would not for the world have
proposed to him a thing which must have placed me in the un-
amiable light of supposing him capable of meanness, or of not
feeling myself the impropriety of the measure. I confess to you,
I had the weakness to value the esteem of a dying man, because

I reverenced his merit.

A. Hamilton.

188 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 23.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

Albany, October 10, 1780.

My Dear Sir :

I am still confined to my room, but believe my disorder has
taken a favorable turn, and that I shall soon be tolerably re-
stored.

Colonel Yan Schaick informs me that he is ordered down
with his regiment. We are so sadly off here for directors, that
I most sincerely wish he had been permitted to remain here :
his deafness will render him little serviceable with his regi-
ment.

I am informed that some people have recommended, or intend
to recommend, to the General, to evacuate Fort Schuyler. I
hope it will not take place, as the enemy would immediately oc-
cupy the ground, and make it a receptacle for Indians and tories,
from whence to pour destruction on the country. A certain
Lieutenant Laird, of the militia, who was carried off, or went off
voluntarily, with Sir John Johnson, when last in the country, is
returned, and advises that about two thousand men were col-
lected at St, John's to make separate attacks on the Grants, Sara-
toga, and the Mohawk river. If this be true, it was probably
intended as a co-operating plan, if Sir Harry had come up the
river. An Express is this moment arrived, announcing that
about five hundred men of the enemy are arrived at the Canajo-
harie Falls. If this should be confirmed, I shall venture to ad-
vise Van Schaick to detain his regiment, and hope it will meet
the General's approbation. It is said the enemy are fortifying at
Oswego. I hope the garrison for that place will be speedily
sent up.

When do you intend to be here ? Who wiH accompany you ?
Is it probable the General will pay us a visit in winter ? I most
earnestly wish it. Will you make my excuses to the Marquis
for my not writing him : the Doctor will not permit me ; but
what is worse, I really have not strength as yet. Entreat the

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 189

General to accept of my best wislies : tlie family share in them.

Adieu, my dear sir.

I am, affectionately,

Yours, etc., etc.,

Pii. Schuyler.
Colonel Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO ISAAC SEARS.

Boston, October 12, 1780.

I was much obliged to you, my dear sir, for the letter which
you did me the favor to write me since your return to Boston.
I am sorry to find that the same spirit of indifference to public
affairs prevails. It is necessary we should rouse, and begin to do
our business in earnest, or we shall play a losing game. It is
impossible the contest can be much longer supported on the
present footing. We must have a Government with more power.
We must have a tax in kind. We must have a foreign loan.
We must have a Bank, on the true principles of a Bank. We
must have an Administration distinct from Congress, and in the
hands of single men under their orders. We must, above all
things, have an army for the war, and an establishment that will
interest the ofl&cers in the service.

Congress are deliberating on our military affairs : but I ap-
prehend their resolutions will be tinctured with the old spirit.
We seem to be proof against experience. They will, however,
recommend an army for the war, at least as a primary object.
All those who love their country, ought to exert their" influence
in the States where they reside, to determine them to take up
this object with energy. The States must sink under the burden
of temporary enlistments ; and the enemy will conquer us by
degrees during the intervals of our weakness.

Clinton is now said to be making a considerable detachment
to the southward. My fears are high, my hopes low. We are
told here, there is to be a Congress of the neutral powers at the
Hague, for mediating of peace. God send it may be true. We

190 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

want it : but if tlie idea goes abroad, ten to one if we do not
fancy tlie tiling done, and fall into a profound sleep till the can-
non of tlie enemy awaken us next campaign. This is our na-
tional character.

I am, with great regard, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO DUANE.

Oct. 18, 1780.

My Dear Sir :

Since my last to you, I have had the pleasure of receiving
two letters from you. I am sorry to find we do not seem to
agree in the proj)er remedies to our disorder, at least in the
practicability of applying those which are proper. Convinced,
as I am, of the absolute insufficiency of our present system to
our safety, if I do not despair of the Eepublic, it is more the
effect of constitution than of judgment.

With the sentiments I entertain of Gates, I cannot but take
pleasure in his removal ; and with the confidence I have in
Greene, I expect much from his being the successor ; at least, I
expect all his circumstances will permit. You seem to have
mistaken me on the subject of this gentleman. When I spoke
of prejudice, I did not suppose it to exist with you, but with
Congress as a body ; at least with a great part of them. The
part they have taken in the affair, in my opinion, does honor to
their impartiality. I hope they will support the ofiicer appointed
with a liberal confidence ; his situation surrounded with difficul-
ties will need support. Of your influence for this purpose I am
too thoroughly persuaded of your patriotism, my dear sir, to
doubt.

Be assured, my dear sir, the marks of your regard give me a
sincere pleasure, and I shall be always happy to cultivate it, and
to give you proofs of my affectionate attachment.

A. Hamilton.

Mt.23.] correspondence. 191

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON".

Saratoga, Oct. 19tli, 1780.

Dear Sir :

Your favor of the 12tli inst., I had the pleasure to receive
last night. Major Carlton, as you will have heard, has been
down to the vicinity of this place, at the head of eight hundred
British, about two hundred enlisted tories, and as many Indians.
Fort Ann and Fort George fell into his hands ; he burnt Kings
and Queensborough townships, and the north part of this dis-
trict, to within five miles of my house. The three months' men
have evacuated Fort Edward, so that I have nobody between
me and the enemy except two poor families, and about one hun-
dred militia with me ; on the 17th about one hundred and fifty
of the enemy burnt Balstown, which lies about twenty miles
below me and about twelve miles west of the road leadinsr to

O

Albany ; another party is about eighteen miles east of me,
where they have burnt about ten houses. The very valuable
settlement of Schoharie, which lays west of Albany, was also
entirely consumed on the 17th instant. Thus are we surrounded
from every quarter, and the inhabitants flying down the country.
I believe my turn will be in a few days, unless troops are sent
u]3. Carlton is at Ticonderoga and Mount Independence, and
waits a reinforcement, which is momentarily expected ; my
informant says he intends a second tour to destroy the settle-
ments on this river, as far as to where the Mohawk Eiver falls
into it, which is about twenty-four miles below this. I most
sincerely wish that some continental troops were hastened up
for the protection of the county. I entreated Yan Schaick to
remain.

P. Schuyler.
Col. Hamilton, from

Gen'l Schuyler,

192 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

HAREISON TO HAMILTON.

October 27, 1780.

My Dear Hamilton :

We are only leaving Philadelpliia. The most flattering
attentions liave been paid to Meade and myself, and such as
would not permit us to progress before, unless we had shown
ourselves entirely disregardless of the great world. Besides,
motives of a public nature concurred to make us stay thus
long. From all I have seen and heard, there is a good dispo-
sition in Congress to do all they can for the army and the public
interest ; and there are many very sensible men among them. In
general, they are most warmly attached to the General ; and his
recommendations will have their weight while the same spirit pre-
vails. It is said there has been infinitely more harmony among
them for some time past, than has appeared since the first years
of their appointment. I am not, however, without some appre-
hension, that if they proceed in the case of Lee, etc., the monster
(party) may show itself again, and that we may have a second
edition of the measures adopted in the instance of -Deane. Our
friends Sullivan and Carroll have been of great service : and
gentlemen who are, or pretend to be, in the secrets of the cabi-
net, say they have contributed immeasurably, by their independ-
ent conduct, to destroy the eastern alliance. Bland is very
clever, and without question wishes to push on in the true and
right road. Grayson says this is the best Congress we have had
since the first. Our dear Laurens respects many of the mem-
bers : and General Greene's appointment, I believe, is entirely
consonant to the wishes of Congress in general, though we have
heard there were members much disposed, if facts had not been
so obstinate, to excuse General Gates. The former is here, and
I suppose will set out in a day or two. Meade and I will serve
him all we can. We have done what we could already. Apro-
pos, you delivered him my letter. Our finances are entirely
deranged, and there is little or no money in the treasury. I be-
lieve they are a subject of much consideration and puzzlement.

.Et. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 193

The supplies of the army are also matters of present attention,
but I don't know what will be done. I hope we shall, by
Christmas, have some clothing from the "West Indies, if the moth
have not destroyed it: a quantity, it is said, has been lying
there. It is much to be wished that General Greene were at the
South. The delegates from that quarter think the situation of
Cornwallis delicate, and that by management, and a proper appli-
cation and use of the force there, the late check given Furguson
might be improved into the Earl's total defeat. This, I fear, is
too much even to hope. The sending the Baron is considered,
as far as I have heard, perfectly right, and Lee's corps give great
satisfaction. I am just about to mount my horse, and therefore
shall say but little more. Laurens will write unto you in a few
days, I suppose, and communicate any new occurrences. My
love to the lads of the family. The same to you. May you be
long happy. My most respectful compliments to the General.

Most truly and affectionately,
EoB. H. Harbison.

P. S. The Board have been absolutely too jDOor to procure
parchment for the many promotions that have been required.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

1780.

Dear Hamilton:

I shall be obliged to you for the answer to the address, as
soon as it is convenient to you. If we do not ride to the Point
to see the fleet pass out, I am to have a conference with Count
de Eochambeau, and the engineer, directly after breakfast, at
which I wish you to be present.

I am sincerely and affectionately yours,

Geo. Washington.
Half-past, A. M.

VOL. L 13

194 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 23.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

November 22d, 1780.

Inclosed, my dear Hamilton, I send you a letter for Mr. De
Marbois, wherein are contained two exemplaires of my dis-
patches to Doctor Franklin. In the hurry of our arrangement,
I forgot to mention them to the General. Be pleased to give
him a summary of their contents, to which I have added the
southern news of yesterday. Tell him that, knowing from ex-
perience, how negligent we were in sending accounts to Europe,
I take upon myself to forward such as may influence mediating
powers in case of a negotiation.

I have made a calculation about boats, and think that if we
act upon a large scale in the Staten Island expedition, we ought
to have forty boats — about a thousand (the hundred artillery in-
cluded) for the watering place and Eichmond ; your attack
should have two hundred. In this calculation I put the staff
and other ofl&cers, &c., twelve hundred men, or thirty per boat,
makes forty boats ; at least we ought not to have much less.

Let me know, my dear friend, if what we were speaking of
last night, and the night before last, will be complied with. In
consequence of what was said by the General, I was set at lib-
erty to speak fully ,to G., who was charmed with the beauty and
propriety of the thing. I am fully, fully of opinion that we
would be very sorry not to go (at least conditionally), upon that
plan, which perhaps will be as easy as any thing else : we may '
even say, il est beau meme d'en tomber. Adieu ; write me
upon what scale, that I may prepare my troops. To-morrow
we must carry your private affair. Show me your letter before

you give it.

Yours,

La Fayette.

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 195

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

November 22, 1780.

Dear Sir:

Some time last fall, when I spoke to your Excellency about
going to the southward, I explained to you candidly my feelings
with respect to military reputation ; and how much it was my
object to act a conspicuous part in some enterprise, that might
perhaps raise my character as a soldier above mediocrity. You
were so good as to say, you would be glad to furnish me with
an occasion. When the expedition to Staten Island was afoot,
a favorable one seemed to offer. There was a battalion without
a field officer, the command of which, I thought, as it was acci-
dental, might be given to me without inconvenience. I made
an application for it through the Marquis, who informed me of
your refusal on two principles : one, that the giving me a whole
battalion might be a subject of dissatisfaction; the other, that if
any accident should happen to me in the present state of your
family, you would be embarrassed for the necessary assistance.

The project you now have in contemplation affords another
opportunity. I have a variety of reasons, that press me to desire
ardently to have it in my power to improve it. I take the lib-
erty to observe, that the command may now be proportioned to
my rank ; and that the second objection ceases to operate, as,
during the period of establishing our winter quarters, there will
be a suspension of material business : besides which, my peculiar
situation will, in any case, call me away from the army in a few
days, and Mr. Harrison may be expected back early next month.
My command may consist of one hundred and fifty or two hun-
dred men, composed of fifty men of Major Gibbes' corps, fifty
from Colonel Meigs' regiment, and fifty or a hundred more from
the light infantry: Major Gibbes to be my Major. The hundred

men from here may move on Friday morning towards • ,

which will strengthen the appearances for Staten Island, to form
a junction on the other side of the Passaic.

196 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

I suggest tliis mode to avoid the complaints that might arise
from composing my party wholly of the Light Infantry, which
might give umbrage to the ofiicers of that corps, who, on this
plan, can have no just subject for it.

The primary idea may be, if circumstances permit, to attempt
with my detachment Bayard's Hill, Should we arrive early
enough to undertake it, I should prefer it to any thing else, both
for the brilliancy of the attempt in itself, and the decisive conse-
quence of which its success would be joroductive. If we arrive
too late to make this eligible (as there is reason to apprehend),
my corps may form the van of one of the other attacks, and
Bayard's Hill will be a pretext for my being emj^loyed in the
afiair, on a supposition of my knowing the ground, which is
partly true. I flatter myself, also, that my military character
stands so well in the army, as to reconcile the ofiicers, in general,
to the measure. All circumstances considered, I venture to say,
any exceptions which might be taken, would be unreasonable.

I take this method of making the request, to avoid the em-
barrassment of a personal explanation. I shall only add, that
however much I have the matter at heart, I wish your Excel-
lency entirely to consult your own inclination, and not, from a
disposition to oblige me, to do any thing that may be disagree-
able to you. It will, nevertheless, make me singularly happy
if your wishes correspond with mine.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

Paramus, November 28, 1780.

Dear Hamilton:

Here I arrived last night, and am going to set out for Phila-
delphia. Gouvion goes straight to New Windsor, and by him I
write to the General. I speak of Hand and Smith, whom I re-
commend, and add : "If, however, you were to cast your eye on

tEt. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 197

a man, wlio, I think, would suit better than any other in the
world, Hamilton is, I confess, the officer whom I would like best
to see in my * * * * *." Then I go on with the idea, that, at
equal advantages, you deserve from him the preference; that
your advantages are the greatest ; I speak of a co-operation ; of
your being in the family ; and conclude, that on every public
and private account I advise him to take you,

I know the General's friendship and gratitude for you, my
dear Hamilton : both are greater than you perhaps imagine. I
am sure he needs only to be told that something will suit you,
and when he thinks he can do it he certainly will. Before this
campaign I was your friend, and very intimate friend, agreeably
to the ideas of the world. Since my second voyage, my senti-
ment has increased to such a point the world knows nothing
about. To show hoth, from want and from scorn of expressions,

I shall only tell you — Adieu.

Yours,

La Fayette.

DE CORNY TO HAMILTON.

Newport, 4th Dec, 1780.

Sir:

The ill state of my health obliges me to request permission
to return to France, for as short a time as possible. I must, be-
fore my departure, acquit myself of the double duty of thanking
you for the favors with which you have honored me, and of
soliciting your orders for my country. The satisfaction I feel of
being chosen to accompany the Marquis de la Fayette, and of
executing under his orders, the dispositions necessary to the
arrival of the French army, which, as an interesting period of
my life, will not be superior to that of returning to give our
great and good General Washington new proofs of my zeal. I
shall always be honored in being reckoned one of your most

198 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 23.

faithfal comrades. I wish tliat happiness, success and glory
follow you for ever.

I am, with everlasting attachment,

Your most humble and most obedient servant,

EsTRis DE Corny,

Lt. Colonel of Cavalry.

I pray you to present my friendship and full compliments to
the General's family.

Col. Hamilton.

DU PORTAIL TO HAMILTON".

1780.

Je vous prie, mon cher Colonel, de lire les papiers ci -joints,
ils vous mettront au fait de ce dont il s'agit. Nous avons deja
parle ensemble de cet objet, ainsi il est inut(fe d'yrevenir, ilest
certain qui si Son Excellence ne vous favorit point dans ces
occasions, il nous est absolument impossible pour nous memes
de nous tirer d'embarras. L'homme dontil est question, et qui est
celui qui vous remettra cette lettre, sert lui-meme a prouver le
pen de ressources que nous avons dans ce genre. M. de Yelle-
franche en avait ete si mecontent la campagne derniere, qu'il
I'avait renvoy6, et n'en voulait plus entendre parler. L'impos-
sibilite d'en trouver un autre le force de le reprendre il ae
demande pas mieux assurement que de le changer, il fait tous ses
efforts pour cela, il frappe a toutes les portea, mais inutilement.

II est bien aise de faire de belles loix pour corriger les abus ;
tout le monde voit les abus, tout le monde pent ce faire valoir en
declamant d'autre, mais determiner, presques les circonstances
permettent, de corriger I'abus, en suj)primant des moyens abusifs-
defaire une chose en substituer d'autres voila ceque les Eeforma-
teurs Croyans ne font pas toujours.

Vous expliquerez cela a qui il appartient, probablement vous

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 199

ne vous tromperez pas, aii fait dont je vous prie de donner a
M. de Yillefranclie un mot comme vous I'avez donne a M. de
Rocliefontaine.

Je suis, mon clier Colonel, dans nne totale defaute de livres
anglais ; j'en ai reluque un sur la table aujourd 'hui, que le
Colonel Harrison m'a dit que vous lisiez, mais je pense que vous
ne lisez pas les deux volumes a la fois. Si vous pouviez m'en
preter un, vous obligiriez beaucoup votre tres liumble serviteur.

DU PORTAIL.

Je vous prie de me renvoyer les papiers en cachets.

DU PORTAIL,

Col. Hamilton.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Dec. 9, 1780. •

Dear Hamilton :

On my arrival at Paramus, I wrote a letter to tlie Greneral,
wliicli Colonel Grouvion was to deliver to himself at New Wind-
sor; so that more expedition had been made than you had
thought. But the General having unfortunately altered his
mind, and taken the road to Morristown, another misfortune
threw Hand in his way ; and remembering your advice on the
occasion, he hastened to make him the projDosition, and in con-
sequence of it wrote his letter to Congress. From Paramus I
went myself to the Lots, and from thence to Morristown, where
I met the General ; and knowing that my letter could not reach
him under some days, I became regardless of your wishes, and
made a verbal application in my own name, and about the same
time that had been settled between us. I can't express to you,
my dear friend, how sorry and disappointed I felt, when I knew
from him, the General, that (greatly in consequence of your ad-
vice) he had settled the whole matter with Hand, and written for
him to Congress. I. confess I became warmer on the occasion

200 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 23.

than you would perliaps liave wislied me to be; and I wanted
the General to allow my sending an express, wlio would have
overtaken the letter, as it was in the hands of General St. Clair :
but the General did not think it to be a convenient measure ;
and, I confess, I may have been a little blinded on its propriety.
I took care not to compromise you in this affair, when the General
expressed a desire to serve you, and in a manner you would
have been satisfied with. Now for the voyage to France.

Congress seem resolved that an Envoy he sent in the way you
wish, and this was yesterday determined in the House. Next
Monday the gentleman will be elected. I have already spoken
to many members. I know of a number of voices that will be
for you. This day, and that of to-morrow, will be by me em-
ployed in paying visits. As soon as the business is fixed upon,
I shall send you an express. I think you ought to hold your-
self in readiness, and in case you are called for, come with all
possible speed; for you must go immediately, that you may
have returned before the beginning of operations. If you go, my
dear sir, I shall give you all public or private knowledge about
Europe I am possessed of. Besides many private letters, that
may introduce you to my friends, I intend giving you the key of
the cabinet, as well as of the societies which influence them. In
a word, my good friend, any thing in my power shall be entirely
yours.

HAMILTON TO WASHINftTOJST.

Albany, Dec. 9, 1780.

Deae Sir:

Mr. Rensselaer, who has the direction of the Armory here,
tells me that the Board of War write him, they are unable to
support it any longer on the present establishment for want of
supplies, and propose to him to endeavor to have it carried on
by contract. This he declares is impossible. The Armory must
either continue on the present footing or cease. As far as I un-

^T. 23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 201

derstand tlie matter, there is no objection to the terms in them-
selves, but a want of means to comply with them. If there is a
want of means, the thing must be relinquished ; but as it does
not strike me that it can be more difficult to maintain an Armory
here than elsewhere ; and as I apprehend, in the present state of
Arsenals, we shall stand in need of all the repairing we can do ;
I take the liberty, at Mr. Eensselaer's request, to mention the
matter to you. I have seen the Armory myself. It appears to
be in excellent order, and under a very ingenious and industri-
ous man. I am told it has been conducted hitherto with great
activity. Its situation is, in my opinion, advantageous. As
there is a considerable body of troops always at West Point, and
the army generally in its vicinity, the river is very convenient
for transportation to and from the Armory ; and, I should think,
would be conducive to economy. This consideration strikes me
as of importance. General Knox, however, will be the best
judge of the usefulness of this Armory.

Mr. Rensselaer also mentions a considerable number of hides
in the hands of persons here who had had orders from the
Clothier-General not to dispose of them but by his order. He
says he can no longer, but with great difficulty, procure leather
for the public works on credit ; and has requested me to men-
tion this also to your Excellencey,

Mrs. Hamilton presents her respectful compliments to Mrs.
Washington and yourself. After the holidays we shall be at
head quarters.

I believe I imparted to you General Schuyler's wish that you
could make it convenient to pay a visit with Mrs. Washington
this winter. He and Mrs. Schuyler have several times repeated
their inquiries and wishes. I have told them I was afraid your
business would not permit you : if it should I shall be happy.
You will enable me to let them know about what period it will
suit. When the sleighing arrives, it will be an affair of two
days up and two days down.

I have, etc.,

A. Hamilton.

202 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 23.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

New-Windsor, Dec. 27, 1780.

Deae Hamilton :

Your letter of the 19tli came safe by tlie Doctor, wlio set out
tliis morning for Philadelpliia.

I had, previous to tlie receipt of it, and without knowledge
that the Board of War had given any direction respecting the
Armory at Albany, requested the Governor to exempt (if he
could do so with propriety) the citizens who were employed in it,
from military services in case of alarm ; and had written to Gen-
eral Clinton to direct the Quarter-Master to afford every assist-
ance in his power to have the work repaired, and the business,
as far as depended upon him, accelerated. I have now given
order for delivery of such hides as Mr. Kensselaer shall find
absolutely necessary for the use of the Armory.

Although a trip to Albany, on more accounts than one, would
be perfectly agreeable to my wishes, I am so far from having it
in my power, at this time, to fix a period for this gratification of
them, that I have but small hope of accomplishing it at all this
winter. There are some matters in suspense which may make a
journey to Ehode Island necessary; but as the subject is not fit
for a letter, I shall withhold the communication till I see you.

A second embarkation has taken place at New-York. The
strength of the detachment, or its destination, are vaguely re-
ported ; and no certainty under whose command it goes. Arnold
is said to be of it ; from whence the connections conclude that
New-Haven or New-London must infallibly be the object, while
more rational conjecturers send it to the southward, from whence
no late accounts have been received.

Mrs. Washington most cordially joins me in compliments of
congratulation to Mrs. Hamilton and yourself, on the late hapj)y
event of your marriage, and in wishes to see you both at head
quarters. We beg of you to present our respectful compliments
to General Schuyler, his lady and family, and offer them strong

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 203

assurances of tlie pleasure we should feel at seeing them at New-
Windsor.

"With much truth, and great personal regard,
I am, dear Hamilton,
Your affectionate friend and servant,

Gr. Washington".

GEEENE TO HAMILTON.

January 10, 1781.

My Dear Colonel :

General Du Portail being on his way to the northward, gives
me an opportunity to write you, which I should have done
before, had not my letters to His Excellency contained as full
information of the state of things as I was able to give, from the
little time I had been in the department.

When I was appointed to this command, I expected to meet
with many new and singular difficulties; but they infinitely
exceed what I apprehended. This is really carrying on a war
in an enemy's country ; for you cannot establish the most incon-
siderable magazine, or convey the smallest quantity of stores
from one post to another, without being obliged to detach guards
for their security. The division among the people is much
greater than I imagined ; and the whigs and tories persecute
each other with little less than savage fury. There is nothing
but murders and devastations in every quarter.

The loss of our army at Charleston, and the defeat of Gen-
eral Gates, has been the cause of keeping such shoals of militia
on foot ; and their service has been accompanied with such de-
struction and loss, as has almost laid waste the whole country.
Nothing has been more destructive to the true interest of this
country than the mode adopted for its defence. Two misfortunes
happening one after the other, may have rendered it unavoidable
the last season ; but should it be continued, the inhabitants are
inevitably ruined, and the resources of the country rendered inca-
pable of affording support to an army competent to its defence.

204 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

Government liere is infinitely more popular than to the north-
ward ; and there is no such thing as national character or national
sentiment. The inhabitants are from all quarters of the globe,
and as various in their opinions, projects, and schemes, as their
manners and habits are from their early education. Those in
office, from a vanity to be thought powerful, join in the measure
of imposing upon the public respecting the strength and resour-
ces of these southern States : and while Congress, and the min-
ister of France, are kept under this fatal delusion, I fear little
support will be given to this department. The inhabitants are
numerous ; but they would be rather formidable abroad than at
home. They are scattered, over such a vast extent of country,
that it is difficult to collect, and still more difficult to subsist
them. There is a great spirit of enterprise among the black
people ; and those that come out as volunteers are not a little
formidable to the enemy. There are, also, some particular corps
under Sumpter, Marion, and Clarke, that are bold and daring ;
the rest of the militia are better calculated to .destroy provisions
than oppose the enemy.

At Philadelphia, and all my journey through the country, I
endeavored to impress upon those in power, the necessity of
sending clothing, and supplies of every kind, immediately to
this army. But poverty was urged as a plea, in bar to every ap-
plication. They all promised fair, but I fear will do but little :
ability is wanting with some, and inclination with others.

Public credit is so totally lost, that private people will not
give their aid, though they see themselves involved in one com-
mon ruin. It is my opinion that General Washington's influence
will do more than all the assemblies upon the continent. I al-
ways thought him exceeding popular ; but in many places he is
little less than adored, and universally admired. His influence
in this country might possibly effect something great. How-
ever, I found myself exceedingly well received, but more from
being the friend of the General, than from my own merit.

This country wants, for its defence, a small but well appoint-
ed army, organized so as to move with great celerity. It should
consist of about five thousand infantry, and from eight hundred

^T.24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 205

to a t"h.ousand horse. The enemy cannot maintain a larger force
in this quarter, neither can we. The resources from the country
are too small to subsist a large body of troops at any one point :
and to draw supplies from a distance, through such long tracts
of barren land, will be next to impossible, unless the business
can be aided by a water transportation ; and, in either case, it
will be accompanied with an amazing expense. Could we get a
superiority of horse, we could soon render it difficult for Lord
Cornwallis to hold his position so far in the country. Nor should
I be under any apprehensions, with a much inferior force to his,
of taking post near him, if I had but such a body of horse. But
the enemy's horse is so much superior to ours, that we cannot
move a detachment towards them without hazarding its ruin.

When I came to the army, I found it in a most wretched
condition. The of&cers had lost all confidence in the General,
and the troops all their discipline. The troops had not only lost
their discipline, but they were so addicted to plundering that
they were a terror to the country. The General and I met at
least upon very civil terms ; and he expressed the greatest hap-
piness at my being appointed to succeed him.

General Smallwood and he were not upon good terms ; the
former suspected the latter of having an intention to supplant
him, but many think without reason. Others, again, are of
opinion, his suspicions were well founded, and that Smallwood
was not a little mortified at my being appointed to this depart-
ment, and got outrageous when he heard Baron Steuben was
coming also. How the matter was, I know not ; certain it is, he
is gone home, having refused to act under Baron Steuben, and
declares he will not serve at all, unless Congress will give him a
commission, dated at least two years before his appointment.
This, I think, can never happen, notwithstanding his private
merit, and the claim of the State. The battle of Camden here
is represented widely different from what it is to the northward.

Colonel Williams thinks that none of the general officers
were entitled to any extraordinary merit. The action was short,
and succeeded by a flight, wherein every body took care of him-
self, as well officers as soldiers. Not an officer, except Major

206 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 24.

Anderson, and one or two Captains, that brouglit off the field of
battle a single soldier. The Colonel also says, that General
Gates would have shared little more disgrace than is the common
lot of the unfortunate, notwithstanding he was early off, if he
had only halted at the Waxhaws or Charlotte — the iirst about
sixty, and the last about eighty miles from the field of battle.
What little incidents either give or destroy reputation ! How
many long hours a man may labor with an honest zeal in his
country's service, and be disgraced for the most trifling error
either in conduct or opinion ! Hume very justly observes, no
man will have reputation unless he is useful to society, be his
merit or abilities what they may. Therefore, it is necessary for a
man to be fortunate, as well as wise and just. The greater part
of the loss of the Maryland line, in the action of Camden, hap-
pened after they began to retreat : indeed, this was the case with
all the troops. What gave Smallwood such great reputation,
was his halt at Salisbury, which was nothing but accident. You
know there are great parties prevailing in the Maryland line ;
and perhaps his merit is not a little diminished on that account.
I think him a brave and good ofl&cer, but too slow to effect any
thing great in a department like this, where embarrassments are
without number, and where nothing can be effected without the
greatest promptitude and decision. This army is in such a
wretched condition that I hardly know what to do with it. The
ofi&cers have got such a habit of negligence, and the soldiers so
loose and disorderly, that it is next to impossible to give it a
military complexion. Without clothing, I am sure I shall never
do it, I call no councils of war, and I communicate my inten-
tions to very few. The army was posted at Charlotte when I
came up with it ; and in a council it had been determined to
winter there; but the difficulty of procuring subsistence, and
other reasons, induced me not only to take a new position, but
to make an entire new disposition. All this I effected by a
single order, having first made the necessary inquiry respecting
the new positions, by sending a man to examine the grounds
and other requisites. If I cannot inspire the army with confi-
dence and respect by an independent conduct, I foresee it will

^T.24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 207

be impossible to instil discij)line and order among the troops.
General Leslie bas arrived, and joined Lord Cornwallis, wbose
force now is more tban three times larger than ours. And we
are subsisting ourselves by our own industry; and I am not
without hopes of forming something like a magazine. I am
laboring also to get clothing from every quarter. Baron Steuben
is in Virginia, and is indefatigable in equipping and forwarding
the troops from that State. I left General Guest in Maryland for
the same purpose ; but I have got nothing from there yet, nor
do I expect much for months to come. The North Carolina
State have such a high opinion of the militia, that I don't expect
they will ever attempt to raise a single continental soldier ; not-
withstanding the most sensible among them will acknowledge
the folly of employing militia.

But I must have tried your patience, and therefore will make
a full stop concerning matters in this department, and inquire

how you go on to the northward,

-Jt * -x- * * * *

I beg my compliments to General Washington's family, to
General Knox and his family, and all other of my acquaintances.
I shall be exceedingly obliged to you if you will communi-
cate to me, with great freedom, every thing worthy of note that
is said or respects this department.

Yours affectionately,

K Greene,
To Col. Alexander Hamilton.

MEADE TO HAMILTON.

January 13, 1781.

"What shall I say, or think, of my dear friend Ilamilton?
Not a single line from him since we parted. I will not, how-
ever, charge you, my dear fellow, with not having done your
duty, or, at least, of a want of inclination to do it : you may

208 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 24.

have complied fully witli your promise, and your letters mis-
carried : mine probably have shared the same fate. This is the
third since I got home. The first was writ shortly after General
Greene's arrival at Eichmond, and committed to his care ; the
second, telling you I was married, had not so favorable a pros-
pect of conveyance ; and this must take its chance.

Arnold, you knew, was coming here. He has really been
here, and, with shame be it said, marched twenty -five miles, and
back, without having a single musket fired at him : but let me
observe, in justice to the people at large, that there are fewer
disaffected by far, in this State, than any other in the Union;
and that the people turn out with the utmost cheerfulness. The
misfortune, on the present invasion, was, that in the confusion
the arms were sent every wliere^ and no timely plan laid to put
them into the hands of the men who were assembling. The
Baron has, no doubt, given the General the particulars of the
whole affair. Should he not have done it, I must refer you for
them to Kivington's paper : he can hardly be himself, and say
any thing on the subject that ought not to be credited. The
damage, however, done by the enemy is not considerable, and
much less than might have been expected from them. My
friends have suffered. I have often felt much pain, my dear
Hamilton, at scenes of the kind to the northward, but never in
so great a degree as on this occasion. The nearest and dearest
to me were within reach of the enemy ; wife, mother, brother,
sister ; and all have shared deeply in the distress ; and, indeed,
many of them were in personal danger, and my best friend of
the number ; myself of course somewhat exposed. You possess
a heart that can feel for me ; you have a female, too, that you
love. * * -X- * * After placing

her, with at least twenty other females and children, at a safe
distance, I immediately returned, and joined the Baron about the
time the enemy left Eichmond, in order to render him all the
aid I could, being intimately acquainted with the country for
many miles in the vicinity of the enemy : and on their return
down the river, I left him to go in pursuit of a residence for a

.•Et.24.] correspondence. 209

favorite brother who was driven from his home, and obliged to

attend to his wife and a family of little children.

-X- * * * * * *

This gives me an opening to sj^eak of my return to the army.
I have been long wishing yonr advice in full on the occasion.
You are acquainted with the arguments I have used in favor of
my stay here. ***** j ]iave not,

however, as yet, thrown off the uniform, but I am inclined to
believe it must be the case. If we meet not again, my dear
Hamilton, as brother aids, I still flatter myself that, in the course
of time, we shall meet as the sincerest of friends. Jf you have
not already writ to me, my dear fellow, let me entreat you, when
you go about it, to fill a sheet in close hand. Say all about
yourself first, and next, what may be most interesting and new
to me, for I have not heard a syllable from camp since I left it.
I wrote to the "Old Secretary" while he was in Virginia, but
could not hear from him. Tell him that I suffered not a
little on his account, for I conceived, for a long time, that his
cousin's unlucky fall from his horse had happened to him : such
an opinion had like to have carried me to Alexandria.

I am under the necessity of concluding, but first let me pre-
sent my respects to the General and Mrs. Washington, my sin-
cerest esteem to the lads of the family, and every of&cer of the

army whom you know I regard.

* * * * * * *

Your sincere friend,

E. K. Meade.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

Albany, January 25, 1781.

Dear Sir :

Yesterday I received your favor of the sixteenth instant.
It affords me pleasure to learn that the Pennsylvania line is
reduced to order ; but we in this quarter are on the point of
VOL. I. 14

210 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

experiencing a similar commotion. Two regiments threaten to

march to head quarters, unless some money is paid them, the

certificates for the depreciation expedited, and, in future, better

supplied with provisions. Yesterday, about three thousand

bushels of wheat, six hundred pounds worth of beef, and three

or four thousand dollars, were subscribed. I am in hopes we

shall procure what will afford each man about ten dollars ; and

I have some hopes that this, with a little management, will

render them tolerably quiet.

* •» * * * * *

Entreat the General and his lady to accept my best wishes.

Do not forget to remember me to Colonels Harrison and

Tilghman. Adieu.

I am, dear Sir,

Most affectionately.

Yours, etc., etc.,

Ph : Schuyler.

Colonel Hamilton.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON".

Albany, February 5, 178L

Dear Sir :

****** -Sf

The plan you mention for supplying the armies in America,
I should be exceedingly happy to see attempted ; but I fear Con-
gress will not venture on it, although they should be convinced
of its eligibility. In the course of last year, I proposed it
repeatedly to individual members, who generally approved, and
once or twice took occasion to mention it in Congress ; but in
the House no one dared to give his opinion. I am persuaded, if
it was adopted, that a saving, at present almost inconceivable,
would be induced, and an order and economy in the public ex-
penditures, which, whilst it would reconcile the minds of men to
bear the public burthens with alacrity, would effectually eradicate

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 211

the fears which too generally prevail, that we shall sink under
the enormous weight of our expenses. * * *

I am, my dear Sir,

Very affectionately,

Yours, etc., etc.,

Ph: Schuyler.
Colonel Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO SCHUYLER.

Head Quarters, New Windsor, February 18, 1781.

My Dear Sir :

Since I had the pleasure of writing you last, an unexpected
change has taken place in my situation. I am no longer a mem-
ber of the General's family. This information will surprise you,
and the manner of the change will surprise you more. Two
days ago, the General and I passed each other on the stairs. He
told me he wanted to speak to me. I answered that I would
wait upon him immediately. I went below, and delivered Mr.
Tilghman a letter to be sent to the commissary, containing an
order of a pressing and interesting nature.

Keturning to the General, I was stopped on the way by
the Marquis de La Fayette, and we conversed together about a
minute on a matter of business. He can testify how impatient I
was to get back, and that I left him in a manner which, but for
our intimacy, would have been more than abrupt. Instead of
finding the General, as is usual, in his room, I met him at the
head of the stairs, where, accosting me in an angry tone, " Col-
onel Hamilton," said he, "you have kept me waiting at the head
of the stairs these ten minutes. I must tell you, sir, you treat
me with disrespect." I replied, without petulancy, but with
decision, "I am not conscious of it, sir; but since you have
thought it necessary to tell me so, we part." " Very well, sir,"
said he, " if it be your choice," or something to this effect, and
we separated. I sincerely believe my absence, which gave so
much umbrage, did not last two minutes.

212 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 24.

In less than an hour after, Tilghman came to me in the Gen-
eral's name, assuring me of his great confidence in my abilities,
integrity, usefulness, etc. ; and of his desire, in a candid conversa-
tion, to heal a difference which could not have happened but in
a moment of passion. I requested Mr. Tilghman to tell him —
1st. That I had taken my resolution in a manner not to be re-
voked. 2d. That, as a conversation could serve no other pur-
pose than to produce explanations, mutually disagreeable, though
I certainly would not refuse an interview if he desired it, yet I
would be happy if he would permit me to decline it. 3d. That
though determined to leave the family, the same principles which
had kept me so long in it, would continue to direct my conduct
towards him when out of it. 4th. That, however, I did not wish
to distress him, or the public business, by quitting him before he
could derive other assistance by the return of some of the gentle-
men who were absent. 5th. And that, in the mean time, it
depended on him, to let our behavior to each other be the same
as if nothing had happened. He consented to decline the con-
versation, and thanked me for my offer of continuing my aid in
the manner I had mentioned.

I have given you so particular a detail of our difference, from
the desire I have to justify myself in your opinion. Perhaps you
may think I was precipitate in rejecting the overture made by
the General to an accommodation. I must assure you, my dear
sir, it was not the effect of resentment : it was the deliberate re-
sult of maxims I had long formed for the government of my own
conduct.

always disliked the ofl&ce of an aid-de-camp, as having in it
a kind of personal dependence. I refused to serve in this capa-
city with two Major-Generals, at an early period of the war.
Infected, however, with the enthusiasm of the times, an idea of
the General's character overcame my scruples, and induced me
to accept his invitation to enter into his family * * *. It has
been often with great difficulty that I have prevailed upon my-
self not to renounce it ; but while, from motives of public utihty,
I was doing violence to my feelings, I was always determined, if
there should ever happen a breach between us, never to consent

iET.24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 213

to an accommodation. I was persuaded, that when once that nice
barrier, which marked the boundaries of what we owed to each
other, should be thrown down, it might be propped again, but
could never be restored.

The General is a very honest man. His competitors have
.slender abilities, and less integrity. His popularity has often
been essential to the safety of America, and is still of great im-
portance to it. These considerations have influenced my past
conduct respecting him, and will influence my future. I think
it is necessary he should be supported.

His estimation in your mind, whatever may be its amount, I
am persuaded has been formed on principles, which a circum-
stance like this cannot materially effect : but if I thought it could
diminish your frienship for him, I should almost forego the mo-
tives that urge me to justify myself to you. I wish what I have
said, to make no other impression than to satisfy you I have not
been in the wrong. It is also said in confidence, as a public
knowledge of the breach would, in many ways, have an ill effect.
It will probably be the policy of both sides to conceal it, and
cover the separation with some plausible pretext. I am impor-
tuned by such of my friends as are privy to the afl^air, to listen
to a reconciliation ; but my resolution is unalterable.

As I cannot think of quitting the army during the war, I
have a project of re-entering into the artillery, by taking Lieuten-
ant-Colonel Forrest's place, who is desirous of retiring on half-
pay. I have not, however, made up my mind upon this head,
as I should be obliged to come in the youngest Lieutenant-Col-
onel instead of the eldest, which I ought to have been by natural
succession, had I remained in the corps ; and, at the same time,
to resume studies relative to the profession, which, to avoid in-
feriority, must be laborious.

If a handsome command in the campaign in the light infan-
try should offer itself, I shall balance betAveen this and the artil-
lery. My situation in the latter would be more solid and per-
manent ; but as I hope the war will not last long enough to
make it progressive, this consideration has the less force. A
command for the campaign, would leave me the winter to pros-

214 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 24.

ecute studies relative to my future career in life * * *. I have
written to you on tliis subject witli all the freedom and confi-
dence to whicli you have a right, and with an assurance of the
interest you take in all that concerns me.

Very sincerely and affectionatel}^,
I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
General Scliuyler.

LAUEENS TO HAMILTON.

1781.
I am indebted to you, my dear Hamilton, for two letters ; the
first from Albany, as masterly a piece of cynicism as ever was
penned ; the other from Philadelphia, dated the second March :
in both, you mention a design of retiring, which makes me ex-
ceedingly unhappy. I would not wish to have you, for a mo-
ment, withdrawn from the public service : at the same time, my
friendship for you, and knowledge of your value to the United
States, make me most ardently desire, that you should fill only
the first offices of the Eepublic. I was flattered with an account
of your being elected a delegate from New- York, and am much
mortified not to hear it confirmed by yourself I must confess
to you, that, at the present stage of the war, I should prefer your
going into Congress, and from thence becoming a minister pleni-
potentiary for peace, to your remaining in the army, where
the dull system of seniority, and the tableau, would prevent you
from having the important commands to which you are entitled :
but at any rate I will not have you renounce your rank in the
army, unless you entered the career above mentioned. Your
private affairs cannot require such immediate and close attention.
You speak like a paterfamilias surrounded with a numerous pro-
geny.

I had, in fact, resumed the black project, as you were inform-

iET. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 215

ed, and urged the matter very strenuously, botli to our privy
council and legislative body ; but I was out-voted, having only
reason on my side, and being opposed by a triple-headed mon-
ster, that shed the baneful influence of avarice, prejudice, and
pusillanimity, in all our assemblies. It was some consolation to
me, however, to find that philosophy and truth had made some
little progress since my last effort, as I obtained twice as many
suffrages as before.

DUKE DE LAUZUN TO HAMILTON".

A Lebanon, le 26 Fevrier, 1781.

Permettez moi, Monsieur, de vous adresser une lettre pour le
Marquis de Lafayette, ne sachant ou il est. Je ne veux point
importuner son Excellence dans un moment ou tant d'affaires
I'accablent. M. de Closen, Aid-de-Camp de M. le Comte de
Eochambeau, lui porte des d^peches imj)ortantes ; M. le Marquis
de Laval parait destine a commander un detachement de Grena-
diers, et chasseurs de I'Armee Francaise. Je vous supplie de
vouloir bien rappeler au General, que de quelque maniere qu'il
me juge util, je me trouverai heureux d'etre employe, et qu'il
veuille bien temoigner a M. de Eochambeau que ce choix ne lui
sera pas d^sagreable.

Eecevez les excuses de mon Importunite, et les assurances de

tous les sentiments d'estime et de consideration, avec les quels

j'ai I'honneur d'etre, Monsieur, votre tres humble et tres obeis-

sant serviteur.

De LAUzto.

HARRISON TO HAMILTON.

New Windsor, March 26, 1781.

I came here, my dear Hamilton, on Friday night, to bid
adieu to the General, to you, and to my other friends, as a mill-

216 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 24.

tary man, and regret mucli that I have not had the happiness of
seeing you. To-morrow I am obliged to depart ; and it is pos-
sible our separation may be for ever. But be this as it may, it
can only be with respect to our persons ; for as to affection, mine
for you will continue to my latest breath. This event will pro-
bably surprise you ; but from your knowledge of me, I rely you
will conclude, at the instant, that no light considerations would
have taken me from the army ; and I think I might safely have
rested the matter here. However, as the friendship between us
gives you a claim to something more, and as I am not indifferent
about character, and shall be anxious to have the esteem of all
who are good, and virtuously great, I shall detail to you, my
friend, the more substantial reasons which have led to my pre-
sent conduct. I go from the army, then, because I have found,
on examination, that my little fortune, earned by an honest and
hard industry, was becoming embarrassed — to attend to the edu-
cation of my children — to provide, if possible, for the payment
of a considerable sum of sterhng money and interest, with which
I stand charged, on account of the land I lately received from
my honored father, for equality of partition between myself and
two brothers — to save a house which he had begun, and which,
without instant attention, would be ruined, or at least greatly
injured — to provide, if possible, for the payment of goods, which
far exceed any profits I can make from my estate — and because
the State of Maryland, in a flattering manner, have been pleased
to appoint me to a place, very respectable in its nature, corres-
ponding with my former, and very interesting to my whole
future life and support. They have appointed me to the Chair
of their Supreme Court. These, my friend, are the motives to
my present resolution. My own feelings are satisfied on the
occasion, though I cannot but regret parting with the most
valuable acquaintances I have ; and I hope they will justify me
most fully to you, my Hamilton, especially when you consider,
besides, the time I have been in service, and the compensation I
have received. I wish, seriously, I had been sooner apprised of
the good intentions of the State towards me, for reasons which
will occur to you. They were but very lately known, and I was

^T.24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 217

no sooner possessed of them, than I communicated the matter
(that I should leave the army) to the General — having found, on
inquiry, it was only in my power to accept the offer of the Chair,
or decline it for ever, as the filhng it had become a measure of
immediate necessity ; and there were other gentlemen, both of
ability and merit, who had been mentioned for it, and who
would probably have willingly accepted it. You are now to
pardon me for this long relation, so very personal. You must
do it, as what I owed to your friendship produced it, and as it is
my hope and wish to stand fair in your opinion and esteem.

I proceed to tell you that I live in Charles County, Mary-
land, where I should be peculiarly happy to see you : but as I
can have but little hopes of being gratified in this, let me have
the next pleasure to it, the favor of a letter now and then ; in
which, write of matters personally interesting to yourself, as
they will be so to me. Present me most respectfully to your
lady, to General and Mrs. Schuyler. My best wishes attend
you all. Adieu.

Yours in haste, most affectionately,

EoBT. H. Haerison.

Colonel Hamilton.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTOIST.

Elk, April 10, 1781.

Where is, for the present, my dear Hamilton ? This question
is not a mere affair of curiosity. It is not even wholly owing to
the tender sentiments of my friendship. But motives both of a
public and private nature conspire in making me wish that your
woe be not accomplished. Perhaps you are at head quarters —
perhaps at Albany ; at all events, I'll tell you my history. Had
the French fleet come in, Arnold was ours. The more certain it
was, the greater my disappointment has been ; at last it has be-
come necessary for them to return to Rhode Island. I think

218 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

they liave exerted themselve for the common good, and this has
been a comfort in our misfortune.

Having luckily arrived at Elk by water, which at first I had
no right to expect, I have received the General's letters. If you
are at head quarters, you will have seen my correspondence with
the General ; if not, I tell you that I am ordered to the southern
army, and the General thinks that the army under his imme-
diate command will remain inactive. After a march of forty
days, we will arrive at a time when the heat of the season will
put an end to operations. This detachment is so circumstanced
as to make it very inconvenient for of&cers and men to proceed.
Before we arrive, we shall perhaps be reduced to five or six
hundred men. There will be no light infantry formed — no
attack against New-York — none of those things which had flat-
tered my mind. If a corps is sent to the southward by land, it
ought to have been the Jersey line, because if we weaken our-
selves. New- York will be out of the question.

Monsieur Destouches will, I think, propose to the General to
send to Philadelphia I'Eveille and all the frigates ; these, with
the frigates now at Philadelphia, would carry fifteen hundred
men to whatever part of the continent the General would think
proper. We could then go to Morristown, there to form a new
corps of light infantry upon the principles at first intended, and
embarking in the first days of May, we could be at Wilmington,
Georgetown, or any where else, sooner than we can now be by
land. I would have the battalions composed of six companies ;
Colonels employed — Webb, Sprout, Huntington, Olney, Hill,
Barber, Gimat; Laurens ; Majors Willet, Fish, Gibbes, Inspector
Smith, and another; Brigadier Generals Huntington and Sca-
mell, and a good corps of artillerists under * * * * * *. My
good friend, you would be more important at head quarters ; but
if you don't sta}^ there, you know what you have promised to
me. Adieu. Write often and long letters. It is jDrobable I
will be in the southern wilderness until the end of the war, far
fi:'om head quarters, from the French army, from my correspond-
ence with France ; but the whole good I could have operated,

iET. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 219

in this last instance, must liave taken place by tliis time. My
best respects and affectionate compliments wait on Mrs. Hamilton.

Most friendly yours,

La Fayette.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

April 15, 178L SusauEiiANNA.

Dear Hamilton:

You are so sensible a fellow, that you certainly can explain
to me what is tlie matter tliat New- York is given up ; that our
letters to France go for nothing; that while the French are
coming, I am going. This last matter gives great uneasiness to
the Minister of France. All this is not comprehensible to me,
who, having been long from head quarters, have lost the course
of intelligence.

Have you left the family, my dear sir ? I suppose so ; but
from love to the Greneral, for whom you know my affection, I
ardently wish it was not the case ; many, many reasons conspire
to this desire of mine. But if you do leave it, and if I go to
exile, come and partake it with me.

Yours,

L. F.

COL. TILGHMAN to HAMILTON.

Head Quarters, 27th April, 1781.

My Dear Hamilton:

Between me and thee there is a gulf, or I should not have
been thus long without seeing you. My faith is strong, but not
strong enough to attempt walking upon the waters. You must
not suppose from my dealing so much in Scripture phrases, that
I am cither drunk with religion or with wine, though had I been

220 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

inclined to the latter, I might have found a jolly companion in
my Lord, who came here yesterday.

We have not a word of news. Whenever any arrives worth
communicating, and good, you shall have it instantly — if bad, I
will not promise so much dispatch.

I must go over and see you soon, for I am not yet weaned
from you, nor do I desire to be. I will not present so cold
words as compliments to Mrs. Hamilton. She has an equal
share of the best wishes of

Your most affectionate,

TiLGHMAlSr.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

De Peyster's Point, April 27, 1781.

Sir:

I imagine your Excellency has been informed, that in conse-
quence of the resolution of Congress for granting commissions
to Aid-de-Camps appointed under the former establishment, I
have obtained one of Lieutenant Colonel in the army of the
United States, bearing rank since the 1st of March, 1777.

It is become necessary to me to apply to your Excellency, to
know in what manner you foresee you will be able to employ me
in the ensuing campaign. I am ready to enter into activity
whenever you think proper, though I am not anxious to do it till
the army takes the field, as before that period I perceive no
object.

Unconnected as I am with any regiment, I can have no other
command than in a light corps ; and I flatter myself my preten-
sions to this are good.

Your Excellency knows, I have been in actual service since
the beginning of '76. I began in the line, and had I continued
there, I ought, injustice, to have been more advanced in rank
than I now am. I believe my conduct, in the different capacities
in which I have acted, has appeared to the officers of the army,

^T. 24] CORRESPONDENCE. 221

in general, sucli as to merit their confidenee and esteem ; and I
cannot suppose tliem to be so ungenerous as not to see me witli
pleasure put into a situation still to exercise the disposition I
have always had of being useful to the United States. I men-
tion these things, only to show that I do not apprehend the same
difficulties can exist in my case (which is peculiar), that have
opposed the appointments to commands of some other officers,
not belonging to what is called the line. Though the light
infantry is chiefly formed, yet being detached to the southward,
I take it for granted there will be a vanguard by detachment
formed for this army.

I have the honor to be,
Very respectfully.
Your Excellency's most ob't serv't,

A. Hamilton.
To General Washington.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON,

New Windsor, April 27, 1781.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of this date has not a little embarrassed me. You
must remember the ferment in the Pennsylvania line last cam-
paign, occasioned by the appointment of Major M'Pherson ; and
you know the uneasiness which at this moment exists among
the eastern officers, on account of the commands conferred upon
Colonel Gimat and Major Galvan, although it was the result of
absolute necessity.

Should circumstances admit of the formation of another ad-
vanced corps, of which I see very little prospect, from present
appearances, it can be but small, and must be composed almost
entirely of eastern troops : and to add to the discontents of the
officers of those lines, by the further appointment of an officer of
your rank to the command of it, or in it, would, I am certain,

222 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

involve me in a difficulty of a very disagreeable and delicate
nature ; and might, perhaps, lead to consequences more serious
than it is easy to imagine. While I adhere firmly to the right
of making such appointments as you request, I am at the same
time obliged to reflect, that it will not do to push that right too
far ; more especially in a service like ours, and at a time so
critical as the present.

I am convinced that no officer can, with justice, dispute your
merit and abilities. The opposition heretofore made, has not
been for the want of those qualifications in the gentlemen who
are, and have been, the objects of discontent. The officers of the
line contend, without having reference to particular persons, that
it is a hardship and reflection upon them, to introduce brevet
officers into commands (of some permanency), in which there are
more opportunities of distinguishing themselves than in the line
of the army at large, and with the men they have had the trouble
to discipline and to prepare for the field.

My principal concern arises from an apprehension, that you

will impute my refusal of your request to other motives than

those I have expressed ; but I beg you to be assured, I am only

influenced by the reasons which I have mentioned.

I am, dear Sir,

Your obedient, humble servant,

G. Washington.
Lieutenant-Colonel Hamilton.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

Saratoga, April 29, 1781,

My Dear Sir:

-X- * * * -X- * -x-

The troops here are destitute of meat, and I fear will abandon
the post ; the inhabitants in consternation, and preparing to fly,
since they have heard of the arrival of some of the enemy's ship-
ping at Crown Point. Flour we can procure for the present, I

iET. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 223

having, on my own account, purcliased one hundred barrels

about twelve miles from this. If beef is sent up so as to enable

the troops to remain, an engineer will be absolutely necessary to

construct two or three small fortifications.

* -X- * * -X- * *

I am, dear Sir,

Most affectionately and sincerely,

Yours, etc., etc.,

Ph. Schuyler.
Col. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO ROBERT MORRIS.

April 30, 1781.

Sir:

' I was among the first who were convinced that .an administra-
tion, by single men, was essential to the proper management of
the affairs of this country. I am persuaded, now, it is the only
resource we have, to extricate ourselves from the distresses
which threaten the subversion of our cause. It is palpable, that
the people have lost all confidence in our public councils ; and it
is a fact, of which I dare say you are as well apprised as myself,
that our friends in Eurojje are in the same disposition. I have
been in a situation that has enabled me to obtain a better idea
of this than most others ; and I venture to assert, that the Court
of France will never give half the succors to this country, while
Congress hold the reins of administration in their own hands,
which they would grant, if these were intrusted to individuals of
established reputation, and conspicuous for probity, abihties, and
fortune.

With respect to ourselves, there is so universal and rooted a
diffidence of the government, that, if we could be assured the
future measures of Congress would be dictated by the most per-
fect wisdom and public spirit, there would be still a necessity for
a change in the forms of our administration, to give a new spring
and current to the passions and hopes of the people.

224 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 24.

To me it appears evident, that an executive ministry, com-
posed of men with the qualifications I have described, would
speedily restore the credit of government abroad and at home —
would induce our allies to greater exertions in our behalf — would
inspire confidence in moneyed men in Europe, as well as in Amer-
ica, to lend us those sums of which it may be demonstrated we
stand in need, from the disproportion of our national wealth to
the expenses of the war.

I hope, sir, you will not consider it as a compliment, when I
assure you that I heard, with the greatest satisfaction, of your
nomination to the department of finance. In a letter of mine,
last summer, to Mr. Duane, urging, among other things, the plan
of an executive ministry, I mentioned you as the person who
ought to fill that department. I know of no other in America,
who unites so many advantages ; and of course every impedi-
ment to your acceptance, is to me a subject of chagrin. I flatter
myself Congress will not preclude the public from your services
by an obstinate refusal of reasonable conditions ; and, as one
deeply interested in the event, I am happy in believing you will
not easily be discouraged from undertaking an ofi&ce, by which
you may render America, and the world, no less a service than
the establishment of American independence ! 'Tis by introduc-
ing order into our finances — by restoring public credit — not by
gaining battles, that we are finally to gain our object. 'Tis by
putting ourselves in a condition to continue the war — not by
temporary, violent, and unnatural efforts to bring it to a decisive
issue, that we shall, in reality, bring it to a speedy and successful
one. In the frankness of truth I believe, sir, you are the man
best capable of performing this great work.

In expectation that all difliculties will be removed, and that
you will ultimately act on terms you apj)rove, I take the liberty
to submit to you some ideas, relative to the objects of your de-
partment. I pretend not to be an able financier : it is a part
of administration which has been least in my way, and, of
course, has least occupied my inquiries and reflections. Neither
have I had leisure or materials to make accurate calculations. I
have been obliged to depend on memory for important facts, for

^T. 24] CORRESPONDENCE. 225

want of the authorities from which they are drawn. With all
these disadvantages, my plan must necessarily be crude and de-
fective ; but if it may be a basis for something more perfect, or
if it contains any hints that may be of use to you, the trouble I
have taken myself, or may give you, will not be misapplied. At
any rate, the confidence I have in your judgment, assures me
that you will receive, with pleasure, communications of this sort :
if they contain any thing useful, they will promote your views
and the public benefit ; if not, the only evil is the trouble of
reading them ; and the best informed will frequently derive lights,
even from reveries of projectors and quacks. There is scarcely
any plan so bad as not to have something good in it. I trust
mine to your candor without further apology ; you will at least
do justice to my intention.

The first step towards determining what ought to be done in
the finances of this country, is to estimate, in the best manner
we can, its capacity for revenue ; and the proportion between
what it is able to afford, and what it stands in need of, for the
expenses of its civil and military establishments. There occur
to me two ways of doing this : 1st. By examining Avhat pro-
portion the revenues of other countries have borne to their stock
of wealth, and applying the rule to ourselves, with proper allow-
ance for the difference of circumstances. 2d. By comparing the
result of this rule with the product of taxes in those States which
have been the most in earnest in taxation. The reason for hav-
ing recourse to the first method is, that our own experience of
our faculties in this respect, has not been sufficiently clear, or
uniform, to admit of a certain conclusion : so that it will be more
satisfactory to judge of them by a general principle, drawn by
the example of other nations, compared with what we have ef-
fected ourselves, than to rely entirely upon the latter.

The nations with whose wealth and revenues we are best ac-
quainted, are France, Great Britain, and the United Provinces,
The real wealth of a nation, consisting in its labor and commodi-
ties, is to be estimated by the sign of that wealth — its circulating
cash. There may be times when, from particular accidents, the
quantity of this may exceed or fall short of a just representative ;

VOL. I. 15

226 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 24.

but it will turn again to a proper level, and, in the general course
of things, maintain itself in that state.

The circulation of France is almost wholly carried on in the
precious metals ; and its current cash is estimated at from fifteen
to sixteen hundred millions of livres. The net revenue of the
kingdom, the sum which actually j)asses into the public coffers,
is somewhere between three hundred and sixty and four hundred
millions, about one fourth of the whole of its currency. An es-
timate of the wealth of this nation is liable to less fallacy than
of that of the other two, as it makes little use of paper credit,
which may be artificially increased, and even supported, a long
time beyond its natural bounds.

It is supposed that the gross sum extracted from the people
by the collectors of the revenue, may be one-third more than that
which goes into the treasury : but as their exactions are exces-
sive, and fall too heavy on particular orders, who are by that
means reduced to indigence and misery, it is to be inferred, that,
with moderate and reasonable expenses of collection, the present
revenue is as great as the kingdom can well afford, from its
present quantity of wealth.

The circulating cash of Great Britain, in paper and specie,
may be stated at about forty millions of pounds sterling. Mr.
Hume supposes it to have been, at the time he wrote his Essay
on the Balance of Trade, about thirty millions. Other writers
have carried it to fifty, and it is probably in a medium that we
shall find the truth. I do not include in this, the whole amount
of Bank notes, Exchequer bills, India bonds, etc. etc. ; but only
such part as is really employed in common circulation, and per-
forms the offices of current cash. In '75, by Dr. Price's state-
ment, the net revenue of Great Britain was ten millions — that
is, about one-fourth of its current cash, as in France.

I have never met with any calculation that might be depend-
ed upon, of the current cash of the Seven Provinces. Almost
the whole of their coin, as well as large quantities of plate and
bullion, are shut up in the Bank of Amsterdam. The real wealth
of the Bank is believed to be about fifteen millions sterling ;
though, upon the strength of this fund, it has a credit almost un-

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 227

limited, tliat answers all tlie purposes of casli in trade. As
the Dutch, by their prudent maxims, have commonly the rate of
exchange throughout Europe in their favor, and a considerable
balance of trade, the use of paper credit (whicli, in part, also de-
pends upon the particular nature of their Banks) has not the
same tendency with them, as in England, to banish the precious
metals. We may therefore suppose these to be here, as in
France, the true sign of the wealth of the nation. If to the fif-
teen millions in Bank, we add two millions of specie for the
retail circulation and various transactions of business, we
shall, I imagine, have nearly the true stock of wealth of the
United Provinces. Their revenues amount to something more
than four millions, and bear the some proportion to the stock
from which they are drawn, as those of France and England. I
confess, however, the data, in their case, are not suiEciently as-
certained to permit us to rely equally on the result. From
these three examples we may venture to deduce this general rule,
— that the proportion of revenue which a nation is capable of
affording, is about one-fourth of its circulating cash, so far as
this is a just representative of its labor and commodities.

This is only applicable to commercial countries, because, in
those which are not so, the circulating cash is not an adequate
sign. A great part of domestic commerce is carried on by bar-
ter ; and the State must receive a part of its dues in the labor
and commodities themselves. The proportion, however, of the
revenues of such a State to the aggrqate of its labor and commo-
dities, ought to be the same as in the case of trading nations to
their circulating cash ; with this difference, that the difficulty of
collection and transportation, the waste and embezzlement in-
separable from this mode of revenue, would make the real ad-
vantage and ultimate gain to the State, infinitely less than when
the public dues are paid in cash.

When I say that one-fourth part of its stock of wealth is.
the revenue which a nation is capable of affording to the gov-
ernment, I must be understood in a qualified, not in an abso-
lute sense. It would be presumptuous to fix a precise boundary
to the ingenuity of financiers, or to the patience of the people :

228 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

but this we may safely say, that taxation is already carried, in
the nations we have been speaking of, to an extent which does
not admit of a very considerable increase without a proportionable
increase of industry. This suffices for a standard to us ; and we
may proceed to the application.

From a comparison of the several estimates I have seen, of
the quantity of current cash in this country previous to the war
(specie and paper), I have settled my opinion of the amount at
thirty millions of dollars, of which about eight might have been
in specie : one-fourth of this, by analogy, was at that time the
proper revenue of these States ; that is, seven and a half mil-
lions of dollars.

As taxation, however, has, by slow gradations, been carried
to an extreme in those countries which I have chosen as ex-
amples, that would not be, but in a course of time, practicable
in this, where the people have been so little accustomed to taxes,
it may be doubted whether it would be possible to raise the
same proportion of revenue here. The object of the war, I
imagine, would sujDply the want of habit, and reconcile the
minds of the people to paying to the utmost of their abilities,
provided the taxes were judiciously imposed, and the revenues
wisely administered. Besides this, there is a circumstance in
our favor, which puts it in the j)Ower of government to raise
an equal proportion of revenue without burthening the lower
classes of the people in the same degree as in Europe. This
circumstance is the much greater equality of fortunes, by which
means men, in this country, may be made to contribute to the
public exigencies in a much juster proportion to their property ;
and this is in fact the case. In France the rich have gained so
entire an ascendant, that there is a constant sacrifice of the ease
and happiness of the people to their avarice and luxury : their
burthens are in no proj)ortion to those of the middle order, and
still less to those of the poor. In England and Holland the
case, though not altogether, is in a great measure the same.
There are also men of very large moneyed capitals, which were
either formerly exempt from taxes by being in the public funds,
or, having no visible representative for taxation to operate upon.

iET. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 229

enjoy virtually the same advantages. But if, at the commence-
ment of the war, the ability of these States for revenue may be
rated at seven and a half millions of dollars, when the amount
of its circulating cash was thirty millions, now that it is reduced
more than one-half in real value, to what revenue are they to be
supposed equal at this time? I should judge about one-fifth
less, and not more.

The diminution of our circulating cash is principally arti-
ficial. It is true, our foreign commerce has declined by the war,
but our domestic commerce has increased, I know of no good
reason to believe, that the quantity of labor and commodities
have been materially diminished. Our exports have lessened,
but our internal consumption has augmented. The men em-
ployed in the army, and in the departments connected with it,
consume and waste three times as much as the same number of
men in civil life. A number of husbandmen have been taken
from their ploughs into military service ; but the progress of our
natural population has, in part, supplied their place; and the
demands of the war have increased individual industry. The
great influx of money, at first operated upon the avarice of the
people, and, for a long time, served also as a stimulus to industry,
which taxation has since kept up on the principle of necessity.
Notwithstanding the demands and competitions of two armies for
supplies, we see that corn, which is the staple of these middle
States, is cheaper than for some years before the war ; a strong-
argument of plenty.

We may infer from all this, that we stand in need now of
nearly the same quantity of medium for our circulation as before
the war. The depreciation of the money below the standard, is
to be attributed to a want of confidence rather than to a decay
of resources. We find the people, in some of the States, dis-
tressed to pay their taxes, for want of money, with ample means
otherwise ; which is a proof, that our current cash is not a
competent representative of the labor and commodities of the
country. Another proof of the same nature is, that particular
States who have found no small difliculty in collecting their
pecuniary taxes, have been successful in raising contributions to
a large amount in kind.

230 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 24.

This country never having been a country of manufactures,
the productions of the soil ever were, as they still are, the prin-
cipal source of revenue. The inhabitants have abridged their
wants of foreign articles, from the scarcity of them, and have, in
part, supplied their place by home manufactures ; which, being
chiefly conducted by the women, take nothing from the labor
appropriated to agriculture, while it enables the farmer to spare
a larger portion of his income to the public.

Whatever diminution our means of revenue may have suf-
fered, must be accounted for on the decay of foreign trade, and
on the loss of territory. The imposts on trade in Great Britain
amounted to about a fourth of its total revenue. The j^ropor-
tion must be less in America. But suppose it to be the same ;
suppose our external commerce to be reduced one-half, which I
believe is an ample allowance, then, one-eighth should be de-
ducted from our revenue on this account ; which would bring it
down to six millions, five hundred and sixty -two thousand, five
hundred dollars. Allow for the loss of Georgia and South Caro-
lina one-eighth of this sum : this would reduce the income of
the remaining States to five millions, seven hundred and forty-
two thousand, one hundred and eighty-eight, and four-eighths,
dollars. But as the allowance, in both cases, is large, the dimi-
nution I have already supposed, of one-fifth of the whole, appears
to be nearest the truth ; which leaves these States with a net
revenue of six millions of dollars.

We will now examine how far this rule agrees with experi-
ence, and with what has already been effected in these States.
Massachusetts may serve as a criterion. This is one of the
States where taxation has been carried furthest. Taxes were so
heavy last year, that I am informed there were real marks of
distress among some classes of the people. The Legislature, in
their late Address, tell us that they amounted to six hundred
thousand pounds lawful : and they appear to have thought the
pressure of them too great, by reducing them at a time when
they are obliged to have recourse to a large loan, to answer the
exigencies of the current year.

The taxes they specify which seem to belong to those of the

iET.24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 231

present year, witli the addition of tlie bounties for raising men,
and the beef supply, may be estimated at near five hundred
thousand pounds.

This State is in a different situation from any other. Its
position has made it impossible for the enemy to intercept its
trade ; while that of all the others has been greatly injured or
totally obstructed. It has become, in consequence, the mart of
the States northward of Pennsylvania; and its commerce has
enlarged itself much beyond its former limits. A great part of
the money expended for the support of the war, has been dis-
bursed there. Congress, in their requisitions for money, have
rated the quota of Massachusetts at of the whole ; but I

believe its ability, at this time, is in the proportion of one-fifth.
I found this estimation on an impartial comparison of the cir-
cumstances of the several States.

Admitting the proportion to be just, and taking the taxes of
the present year as a standard, the gross amount of our collective
revenues would be two millions, five hundred thousand pounds
lawful ; or eight millions, three hundred and thirty -three thou-
sand, three hundred and thirty-three, and one-third, dollars.
The expense of collection, in England, is about the ninth of the
gross amount ; and considering that our revenue is to be raised
in eleven dififerent governments, each having a complete set of
collectors of its own, the expense of collection, with us, will in
all probability be not much less than it is in England. Suppos-
ing it to be the same, and that the taxes were to prove as pro-
ductive as their nominal amount, our net revenue would then
be seven millions, four hundred and seven thousand, four hun-
dred and eight, and one-half, dollars; which considerably ex-
ceeds what it ought to be by my first calculation.

But there are considerations which may induce us to make
large deductions from this sum. When the Legislature tells us,
that the taxes of last year amounted to six hundred thousand
pounds, it also tells us that there was a part of them still to be
levied ; Avhich, among other things, had occasioned them to
postpone the next tax to a future session. Whatever is due on
the last year, may be considered, in efl'ect, as an anticipation on

232 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.24.

tlie taxes of tlie present; for it takes off so much from the
ability of the people to pay them. The chances are, that the
additional impositions projected for the current year will not be
raised in their full extent. Taxes are seldom or never so pro-
ductive as their estimated value ; and in a case like this, must
be expected to be more than commonly deficient.

It is to be observed, also, that the last year was a year of
peculiar exertion. There was a general expectation of some
attempt, in conjunction with our allies, decisive of the war. This
made the people strain their efforts beyond their natural abili
ties: and yet they did not comply with the demands of the
Legislature.

The money for the bounties this year, which I have calcu-
lated at sixty thousand pounds,* may, in like manner, be
regarded as an extraordinary and special contribution, which the
people may be willing to submit to, over and above what they
could probably afford to pay, to get rid of the insupportable
inconvenience of temporary enlistments.

Reasonable deductions on these accounts being made, will
bring the two calculations to a pretty exact agreement, and
make them confirm each other. But were not this the case, I
should be inclined, in preference, to trust the first, as being
founded on a basis better known and better ascertained by ex-
perience. I believe, however, we may safely conclude, from
both, that between six and seven millions of dollars is the proper
revenue of these States, after the dismemberment of South Caro-
lina and Georgia.

Having; formed an estimate of our abilitv for revenue, the
next thing to be ascertained is, the annual expense of our civil
and military establishments. With tolerable economy, I should
suppose two millions and a half of dollars would amply suffice
for the first, including the particular administration of each State,
For the second, judiciously managed, eight millions of dollars
would be adequate, calculating for an army of twenty thousand

* It is to be feared, too, that this sum is rated too high. Hitherto we have
not four hundred men from that State, nor very promising accounts of tliose
whicli may be expected.

iET. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 233

men, wliicli are as many as we shall stand in need of, or be able*
to raise. Eleven millions of dollars will be then the amount of
the annnal expenses of these States. I speak on a supposition
that a system were embraced, well adapted to rescuing our affairs
from the chaos in which they are now involved ; and which,
while it continues, must baffle- all calculation.

The difference between our revenues and expenses, on the
preceding scale, will be from four to four and a half milhons of
dollars ; which deficiency must of course be supplied by credit,
foreign or domestic, or both.

With regard to credit abroad, I think we have little chance
of obtaining a sufficiency, nearly to answer our purpose. France,
by all the reforms she can make in her interior economy, by all
the means she can j^rocure in loans and lotteries, in addition to
her revenue, can do little more than satisfy her own wants. The
death of the Empress Queen, and the notorious hostility of the

* The proportion of the European armies, in general, to the national population,
is calculated at one to a Imndred. By this rule, supposing our population to be two
and a half millions, our armies ought to consist of twenty- five thousand men; but
the proportion will naturallj' be less in this country. Our population is more dif-
fused : there is a greater facility of prociu-ing subsistence, fewer poor (and conse-
quently fewer of that class of men whose habits, tempers, and circumstances lead
them to embrace the military life) than in any other country in the world. Hence
it is, I say, twenty thousand men are as manj- as we shall be able to raise. Experi-
ence justifies this opinion. In the first paroxysms of enthusiasm our armies were
larger. I believe, at particular periods, we have had more than thirty thousand
men in the field : but our force has every year diminished, and has been for two
years past below the standard I have assigned. Immense efforts have been made
to procure men, but they have not been able to produce more. This shows that
our military system is still susceptible of great reforms in favor of economy ; but
we dare not make them, because we cannot pay the army. I also said, twenty
thousand men would be as many as we should stand in need of. The enemy have
now less than this number within the States ; and cannot, in the future pro-
gress of the war, have more.

An equal force, with the occasional aid of the militia, will confine them within
one or two capital points ; and this will be their defeat. But we have a further
resource in the troops of our allies. We must not dream of decisive enterprises,
unless our allies will assist us with twelve or fifteen thousand land troops, and an
undisputed maritime superiority. Then, with the aid of the militia, drawn out for
a few months, we may undertake and succeed. Our true policy, in the meantime,
is, to endeavor to form a solid compact force, proportioned to our necessities.

234 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

Emperor, will add to the number of these. She will, in all pro-
bability, be obliged to pay greater attention to her army,
which has been neglected, for several years past, to apply all
the resources of the kingdom to the improvement of the navy.
Though Eussia and Prussia, by the last advices, seemed disposed
to control the ill-humor of the Emperor, France will hardly
think it prudent to leave herself in a defenceless condition, rely-
ing on the precarious friendship and momentary interests of
other powers. The increase of her army will necessarily increase
her expenses, as she cannot, in the present state of things, re-
trench any thing from the navy ; and of course she will have
less money to spare to allies. It has been observed, that France
has hitherto imposed none of the additional taxes usual in time
of war ; by doing which, it is imagined she would have it in her
power, not only to supply her own wants better, but to contri-
bute largely to ours. To this it has been answered, with great
appearance of reason, that the credit of the financier very much
depends on his having such a resource in reserve, which, being
considered as a mean he may command, when necessary, to fulfil
his engagements, disposes moneyed men to lend to him with the
greater freedom and confidence. The breaking in upon that
resource, therefore (it is said), would injure credit, and obstruct
loans in a degree that could not be compensated by the direct
value of the revenue it would furnish.

Upon the whole, however, from a variety of siftings and
inquiries, I should be mistaken if France did not lend this
country eight or ten millions of livres annually, during the war ;
provided its finances were once put upon a reasonable footing :
but this is not above a third of our wants.

I find no reason to flatter ourselves that we have much
to expect either from the ability or inclination of Spain. Her
government is far from being so rich as is vulgarly imagined.
The mines of South America, of late years, have been less liberal
of their profits; and, for fear of accidents, but a small part of
their product, since the war, has been imported into Europe.
The extreme indolence of the Spaniards, and their neglect of
agriculture, manufactures, and trade, make them tributary to

tEt. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 235

their more industrious neiglibors, who drain them of their jirc-
cious metals as fast as they arrive.

But if they were heartily disposed to do it, they might still
afford us some assistance. Their conduct, hitherto, has manifested
no such disjiosition : it has been as cold and reserved as it could
well be. The bills drawn upon them have not been rejected,
but they have not been paid. Their permitting the residence of
a British emissary among them, and the countenance they give
him, unprecedented in a state of war, afford just room for a
distrust of their intentions, though it may be nothing more than
a stroke of polic}^, to play him off. against our negotiations, and
make us bid higher for their friendshij^. Their method of pro-
secuting the war is passive, to a degree that can scarcely be re-
solved even into Spanish supineness ; but seems to have a more
corrupt original. A bigoted prince, governed by a greedy con-
fessor, is a character on which little dependence can be placed.

'Tis not on Spain, then, that we are to build our hopes of any
considerable succors in money.

The Dutch government has of long standing mortgaged all its
revenues. Taxation has been carried to a length that admits
of little extension. 'Tis from its credit with its own citizens,
that it must derive the means of making war. It has every
thing to do. Its fleet is to be in a manner created anew ; and
its land forces to be recruited, having been, for some time past,
suffered to decline very much. It will, therefore, stand in need
of all its credit for its own uses. Of course we have nothing to
expect from the government of that country.

The individuals will not have confidence enough in our pub-
lic councils, to embark any considerable part of their fortunes
with us, on the ordinary principles of a loan. Stronger induce-
ments, the prospect of commercial advantages, securities differ-
ent from the mere faith of the United States, must be held out,
to tempt them to engage far with us. The plan I am going to
propose, endeavors to conciliate these objects.

As to internal loans, on which, after all, we must chiefly
depend, there are two things that operate against them, to any
large amount ; the want of a sufficient number of men, with suf-

236 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 24.

ficient moneyed capitals to lend the sums required, and tlie
want of confidence in tliose who are able to lend, to make them
willing to part with their money. It may be added, that they
can employ it to greater advantage in traffic, than by merely
lending it on interest.

To surmount these obstacles, and give individuals ability and
inclination to lend, in any proportion to the wants of government,
a plan must be devised, which, by incorporating their means to-
gether, and uniting them with those of the public, will, on the
foundation of that incorporation and union, erect a mass of credit
that will supply the defect of moneyed capital, and answer all
the purposes of cash ; a plan which will ofter adventurers imme-
diate advantages, analogous to those they receive by emjoloying
their money in trade, and, eventually, greater advantages; a
plan which will give them the greatest security the nature of the case
will admit for what they lend ; and which will not only advance
their own interest, and secure the independence of their country,
but, in its progress, have the most beneficial influence upon its
future commerce, and be a source of national strength and wealth.
I mean the institution of a NATIONAL BANK. This I
regard, in some shape or other, as an expedient essential to our
safety and success ; unless, by a happy turn of European affairs,
the war should speedily terminate in a manner upon which it
would be unwise to reckon. There is no other that can give to
government that extensive and systematic credit, which the de-
fect of our revenues makes indispensably necessary to its ope-
rations.

The longer it is delayed, the more dif&cidt it becomes. Our
affairs grow every day more relaxed and more involved ; public
credit hastens to a more irretrievable catastrophe ; the means for
executing the plan are exhausted in partial and temporary efforts.
The loan now making in Massachusetts would have gone a great
way in establishing the funds on which the Bank must stand.

I am aware of all the objections that have been made to public
Banks ; and that they are not without enlightened and respecta-
ble opponents. But all that has been said against them, only
tends to prove that, like all other good things, they are subject

iET.24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 237

to abuse, and, when abused, become pernicious. The precious
metals, by similar arguments, may be proven to be injurious. It
is certain that the mines of South America have had great influ-
ence in banishing industry from Spain, and sinking it in real
wealth and importance. Great power, commerce, and riches,
or, in other words, great national prosperity, may, in like manner,
be denominated evils ; for they lead to insolence, an inordinate
ambition, a vicious luxury, licentiousness of morals, and all those
vices which corrupt government, enslave the people, and precip-
itate the ruin of a nation. But no wise statesman will reject the
good, from an aj)prehension of the ill. The truth is, in human
affairs there is no good, pure and unmixed : every advantage
has two sides : and wisdom consists in availing ourselves of the
good, and guarding as much as possible against the bad.

The tendency of a National Bank is to increase public and
private credit. The former gives power to the State, for the pro-
tection of its rights and interests : and the latter facilitates and
extends the operations of commerce among individuals. Indus-
try is increased, commodities are multijDlied, agriculture and
manufactures flourish : and herein consists the true wealth and
prosperity of a State.

Most commercial nations have found it necessary to institute
Banks : and they have proved to be the happiest engines that
ever were invented for advancing trade. Yenice, Genoa, Ham-
burgh, Holland, and England, are examples of their utility.
They owe their riches, commerce, and the figure they have made
at different periods, in a great degree to this source. Great Bri-
tain is indebted for the immense efforts she has been able to make,
in so many illustrious and successful wars, essentially to that
vast fabric of credit raised on this foundation. 'Tis by this alone
she now menaces our independence.

She has, indeed, abused the advantage, and now stands on a
precipice. Her example should both persuade and warn us. 'Tis
in republics where Banks are most easily established and sup-
ported, and where they are least liable to abuse. Our situation
will not expose us to frequent wars ; and the public will have no
temptation to overstrain its credit.

238 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

In my opinion, we ongiit not to hesitate, because we have no
other resource. The long and expensive wars of King WilHam,
had drained England of its specie : its commerce began to droop
for Avant of a proper medium : its taxes were unproductive, and
its revenues declined. The administration wisely had recourse
to the institution of a Bank ; and it relieved the national diffi-
culties. We are in the same, and still greater, want of a suffi-
cient medium. We have little specie : the paper we have is of
small value, and rapidly descending to less : we are immersed in
a war for our existence as a nation, for our liberty and happiness
as a people : we have no revenues nor no credit. A Bank, if
practicable, is the only thing that can give us either the one
or the other.

Besides these great and cardinal motives to such an institu-
tion, and the advantages we should enjoy from it, in common
with other nations, our situation, relatively to Europe and to the
West Indies, would give us some peculiar advantages.

Nothing is more common than for men to pass from the abuse of
a good thing, to the disuse of it. Some persons, disgusted by
the depreciation of the money, are chimerical enough to imagine
it would be beneficial to abolish all paper credit, annihilate the
whole of what is now in circulation, and depend altogether upon
our specie, both for commerce and finance. The scheme is alto-
gether visionary, and in the attempt would be fatal. We have
not a competent stock of specie in this country, either to answer
the purposes of circulation in trade, or to serve as a basis for
revenue. The whole amount of what we have, I am persuaded,
does not exceed six millions of dollars, one-fifth of the circulating
medium before the war. To suppose this would be sufficient for
the operations of commerce, would be to suppose that our domes-
tic and foreign commerce were both reduced four-fifths : a suppo-
sition that carries absurdity in the face of it. It follows that if
our paper money were destroyed, a great part of the transactions
of traffic must be carried on by barter ; a mode inconvenient,
partial, confined, destructive both of commerce and industry.
With the addition of the paper we now have, this evil exists in
too great a degree.

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 239

With, respect to revenue, could the whole of our specie be
drawn into the public treasury annually, we have seen that it
would be little more than one half of our annual expense. But
this would be impracticable ; it has never been effected in any
country. Where the numerary of a country is a sufficient rep-
resentative, there is only a certain proportion of it that can be
drawn out of daily circulation ; because, without the necessary
quantity of cash, a stagnation of business would ensue. How
small, then, would be the proportion of the six millions (in it-
self so unequal a representative) which the public would be able
to extract in revenue. It must either have little or no revenue,
or it must receive its dues in kind ; on the in efficacy and incon-
veniences of whicli mode, I have already remarked. The neces-
sity for it, in part, unhappily now has place, for the cause assign-
ed, a deficiency of current cash : but were we to establish it as
our principal dependence, it would be impossible to contrive a
mode less productive to the public, more contrary to the habits
and inclinations of the people, or more baneful to industry.

But waiving the objections on this head, there would still re-
main a balance of four millions of dollars more than these States
can furnish in revenue, which must be provided for the yearly
expense of the war. How is this to be procured without a jDaper
credit, to supply the deficiency of specie, and enable the money-
ed men to lend ? This question, I apprehend, will be of no easy
solution.

In the present system of things, the liealth of a State,
particularly a commercial one, depends on a due quantity and
regular circulation of cash, as much as the health, of an animal
body depends upon the due quantity and regular circulation of
the blood. There are indisputable indications that we have not
a sufficient medium ; and what we have is in continual fluctu-
ation. The only cure to our public disorders, is to fix the value
of the currency we now have, and increase it to a proper
standard, in a species that will have the requisite stability.

The error of those who would explode paper money alto-
gether, originates in not making proper distinctions. Our paper
was, in its nature, liable to depreciation, because it had no funds

240 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 24.

for its support, and was not upheld by private credit. The emis-
sions under the resolution of March, '80, have partly the former
advantage, but are destitute of the latter, which is equally essen-
tial. No paper credit can be substantial, or durable, which has
not funds, and which does not unite, immediately, the interest
and influence of the moneyed men, in its establishment and pre-
servation. A credit begun on this basis, will, in process of time,
greatly exceed its funds : but this requires time, and a well set-
tled opinion in its favor. ' Tis in a National Bank, alone, that
we can find the ingredients to constitute a wholesome, solid, and
beneficial paper credit.

I am aware that, in the present temper of men's minds, it
will be no easy task to inspire a relish for a project of this kind :
but much will depend on the address and personal credit of the
proposer. In your hands I should not despair : and I should
have the greater hopes for what I am informed appeared to be
the disposition, at the promulgation of the plan for a loan in
Massachusetts. The men of property in America, are enlight-
ened about their own interest, and would easily be brought to
see the advantages of a good plan. They ought not to be dis-
couraged at what has happened heretofore, when they behold
the administration of our finances put into a better channel. The
violations of public engagements, hitherto, have proceeded more
from a necessity produced by ignorance and mismanagement,
than from levity or a disregard to the obligations of good faith.

Should the success, in the first instance, not be as complete
as the extent of the plan requires, this should not hinder its
being undertaken. It is of the nature of a Bank, wisely insti-
tuted, and wisely administered, to extend itself, and, from small
beginnings, grow to a magnitude that could not have been fore-
seen.

The plan I propose, requires a stock of three millions of
pounds, lawful money ; but if one-half the sum could be obtain-
ed, I should entertain no doubt of its full success. It now re-
mains to submit my plan, which I rather offer as an outhne,
than as a finished plan. It contains, however, the general prin-
ciples. To each article, in an opposite column, I shall afl&x an
explanatory remark.

^T. 24.]

CORRESPONDENCE.
Art. 1. A Bank to be erected
with a stock of three millions of
pounds, lawful money, at the rate
of six shillings to a dollar, divided
into thirty thousand shares. This
stock to be exempted from all
public taxes and impositions what-
soever.

Remark I. By the second Ar-
ticle, a part of the stock is to be
in landed security : by this, the
whole is to be exempted from taxes.
Here will be a considerable saving
to the proprietor, which is to be
estimated among the clear profits
of the Bank. This will indeed be
a small reduction of the public
revenue ; but the loss will be of
little consequence, compared with
the advantages to be derived from
the Bank.

Remark 2. By admitting land-
ed security as a part of the Bank
stock, while we establish solid
funds for the money emitted, we
at the same time supply the defect
of specie, and we give a strong in-
ducement to moneyed men to ad-
vance their money ; because, not
only the money actually deposited
is to be employed for their benefit,
but, on the credit of their landed
security, by the seventh Article,
may be raised an equal amount in
cash, to be also employed for their
benefit : by which artifice they
have the use of their land (ex-
empted, too, from taxes), and the
use of the value of it in a repre-
sentative cash. In this consists a
capital advantage of the Bank to
the proprietors. A, for instance,
advances six hundred pounds in
specie, and as much more in landed
security. By the establishment he
may draw bank notes for the whole

* The possibility of malting up so large a proportion of specie will depend on
foreign assistance. It could hardly be hoped to effect it within ourselves, if as I
suppose, there are not more than six millions of dollars in these States. It is true,
plate is admitted; but it is uncertain how far this may prove a resource. It were
to be wished th§ proportion of specie might be as large as possible : but, perhaps,
for fear of a failure, it may be advisable to alter the above proportions, so as to
have, upon the whole, about one-third in specie, and two-thirds in European funds
and landed security. .

VOL. I. 16

Art. II. A subscription to be
opened for the amount of the stock.
A subscriber of from one share to
five, to advance the whole in specie.
A subscriber of six shares to fif-
teen, to advance one-half in specie,
the other half in good landed se-
curity. A subscriber of sixteen
shares, and upwards, to advance
two-sixths in specie, one-sixth in
bills or securities on good Euro-
pean funds, and three-sixths in
good landed security. In either
case of specie, plate or bullion, at
a given value, proportioned to its
quality, may be substituted ; and
in either case of landed security,
specie, good bills, or securities on
European funds, to be admissible
in their stead.*
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 24.

Art. III. The Bank to be
erected into a legal corporation ;
to have all the powers and immu-
nities requisite to its security, to
the recovery of its debts, and to
the disposal of its property.

Art. IV. The stock of the
Bank not to be liable to any at-
tachment or seizure whatsoever ;
but, on refusal of payment, the
holders of bank notes, or bonds,
may enter suit against any mem-
ber, or members, of the corpora-
tion ; and, as far as their respective
shares in the Bank extend, recover
the debt, with cost and damages,
out of their private property.

Art. V. The United States, or
any particular States, or foreign-
ers, may become subscribers to the
Bank, and participate its profits,
for any sums not exceeding the
whole half the stock.

of his stock, that is, for twelve hun-
dred pounds, when he only ad-
vances half the sum in money.
These bank notes operating as
cash, his land (continuing, as we
observed above, in his own use,
with the privilege besides «f an
exemption from taxes) is converted
into cash ; which he may employ
in loans, in profitable contracts, in
beneficial purchases, in discount-
ing bills of exchange, and in the
other methods permitted in the
subsequent Articles. Besides all
this, when the bank notes have
once acquired a fixed credit, he is
not obliged to keep his six hun-
dred pounds, deposited in specie,
idle : he may lend, or otherwise im-
prove, a part of that also. These
advantages will not exist in their
full extent at first, but they will
soon succeed each other.

Remark 3. This Article needs
no illustration.

Remark 4. The first part of
this regulation is necessary to en-
gage foreigners to trust their pro-
perty in the Bank ; the latter part
to give an idea of security to the
holders of bank notes.

Remark 5. This will link the
interests of the public more inti-
mately with the Bank, and be an
easy method of acquiring revenue.
It will also facilitate the making
up its stock by the loans which

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 243

Congress may obtain abroad ; with-
out which it would be more diffi-
cult to raise so large a sum. It is
essential the stock should be large,
because, in proportion to it, will
be the credit of the Bank, and of
course its ability to lend and en-
large its paper emissions. The
admission of foreigners will also
assist the completing the stock ;
and it is probable many may be
induced to enter into the plan,
especially after it has made some
progress among ourselves, and ob-
tained a degree of consistency.

The sum is limited to one half
the stock, because it is of primary
importance the moneyed men
among ourselves should be deeply
interested in the plan.

Art. VI. The United States, Kemakk 6. This mode of pledg-
collectively and particularly, to be- ing the public faith, makes it as
come responsible for all the trans- difficult to be infringed as could
actions of the Bank, conjointly with possibly be devised. In our situ-
the private proprietors. ation it is expedient to offer every

appearance of security. Foreign-
ers are more firmly persuaded of
the establishment of our indepen-
dence than of the continuance of
our union ; and will therefore have
more confidence in the States bound
separately than collectively. Indi-
viduals among ourselves will be in-
fluenced by similar considerations.

Art. VII. The Bank to issue Remark 7. The reason of hav-
notes payable at sight, in pounds, ing them payable at sight, is to in-
shillings, and pence, lawful : all of spire the greater confidence and
twenty sliillings, and under, to bear give them a readier currency : nor
no interest : all above, to bear an do I apprehend there would be
interest not exceeding four per any danger from it. In the be-
cent. The notes to be of so many ginning some may be carried to
denominations as may be judged the Bank for payment, but find-
convenient for circulation, and of ing they are punctually discharged,
two kinds ; one payable only in the applications will cease. The
America, the other payable either in notes are payable in pounds, shil-
America or in any part of Europe lings, and pence, rather than in
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 24.

where the Bank may have funds, dollars, to produce an illusion in

The aggregate of these notes never
to exceed the Bank stock.

the minds of the people favorable
to the new paper ; or rather to
prevent their transferring to that
their prejudices against the old.
Paper credit depends much on
opinion, and opinion is often guid-
ed by outside appearances. A cir-
cumstance trivial as this may seem,
might have no small influence on
the popular imagination. And if
2O5., and under, are without inter-
est, because such small sums will
be diffused in the lesser transac-
tions of daily circulation, there will
be less probability of their being
carried to the Bank for payment.

The interest on the larger notes
is calculated to give them a pre-
ference to specie, and prevent a
run upon the Bank. The notes,
however, must be introduced by
degrees, so as not to inundate the
public at once. Those bearing no
interest ought not to be multiplied
too much at first ; but as the in-
terest is an abridgment of the
profits of the Bank, after the notes
have gained an unequivocal credit,
it will be advantageous to issue a
large proportion of the smaller
ones. At first, the interest had
best be at four per cent., to operate
the more effectually as a motive :
afterwards, on the new notes, it
may be gradually diminished : but
it will always be expedient to let
them bear an interest not less than
two per cent.

The making some of the notes
payable in Europe as well as in
America, is necessary to enable the
Bank to avail itself of its funds
there : it will also serve to raise
the demand for Bank notes, by
rendering them useful in foreign
commerce, the promoting which is
a further inducement.

^T. 24.]

CORRESPONDENCE.
The limiting the aggregate of
the notes to the amount of the
stock, is necessary to obviate a sus-
picion of their being multiplied
beyond the means of redemption.

Art. VIII. The Bank to lend Remark 8. In the beginning it
money to the public, or to indivi- will be for the advantage of the
duals, at an interest not exceeding Bank to require high interest, be-
eight per cent. cause money is in great demand,

and the Bank itself will want the
principal part of its cash for the
loans stipulated in Article XIII,
and for peforming the contracts
authorized by Article XII: so that
the profits will not, for some time,
turn materially on the principle of
loans, except that to the public.
But when the contracts cease, the
Bank will find its advantage in
lending, at a moderate interest, to
secure a preference from borrowers,
which will, at the same time, pro-
mote commerce ; and by a kind of
mutual reaction, the Bank will
assist commerce, and commerce
will assist the Bank.

Art. IX. The Bank to have
liberty of borrowing, on the best
terms it can, to the amount of one
half of its stock.

Art. X. The Bank to have
liberty of purchasing estates by
principal, or by annuities ; the
power of coining to the amount
of half its stock, the quantity of
alloy, etc., being determined by
Congress ; also the power of dis-
counting bills of exchange.

Remark 9. This is a precau-
tion against a sudden run. It may
borrow in proportion to what it
pays. It has another advantage :
at particular conjunctures the Bank
may borrow at a low interest, and
lend, at others, at a higher.

Remark 10. This privilege of
purchasing estates will be a very
valuable one. By watching favor-
able opportunities, with so large a
capital, vast property may be ac-
quired in this way. There will be
a fine opening at the conclusion of
the war. Many persons disafiect-
ed to our independence, who have
rendered themselves odious with-
out becoming obnoxious to the
laws, will be disposed to sell their
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 24.

Art. XI. The Bank to receive
from individuals, deposits of any
sums of money, to be repaid when
called for, or passed, by order, to
the credit of others ; or deposits
of plate, paying a certain annual
rate for safe keeping. Whatever
is deposited in the Bank, to be
exempt from taxes.

estates here, either for their whole
value, or for annuities in Europe.
The power of coining* is necessary,
as plate, or bullion, is admitted in-
stead of specie ; and it may be, on
particular occasions, expedient to
coin them ; this will be a small
resource to the Bank. The power
of discounting bills of exchange
will be a considerable one. Its
advantages will consist in purchas-
ing, or taking up for the honor of
the drawer, when the security is
good, bills of exchange at so much
per cent, discount. A large profit
might be now made in this way on
the bills drawn on France ; and
hereafter, in times of peace, when
commerce comes to flourish, this
practice will promote the transac-
tions of the several States with
each other, and with Europe, and
will be very profitable to the Bank.

Remark 11. This is in imita-
tion of the Bank of Amsterdam.
If individuals once get into the
practice of depositing their money
in Bank, it will give credit to the
Bank, and assist trade. In time,
a premium may be required at re-
payment as in Holland. A small
profit may be immediately gained
on plate, as the States begin to
tax tliis article ; and many persons
will dispense at this time with the
use of their plate, if they can de-
posit it in a place of safety, and
pay less for keeping it than the
tax. Whatever serves to increase
the apparent wealth of the Bank,
will enhance its credit ! It may
even be useful to let the owners of
the plate have credit in Bank for
the value of the plate, estimated on

* It may, perhaps, not be impossible to make some profitable speculations on
the bullion which the Spaniards are afraid to transport from South America to
Europe.

iEi. 24.]

CORRESPONDENCE,

24Y

a scale that would make it for the
advantage of the Bank to purchase.

Art. XII. The Bank to have Remark 12. It will be of great

a right to contract with the French importance to the success of the

government for the supply of its subscriptions, that a previous as-
fleets and armies in America, and

to contract with Congress for the
supply of their armies.

Art. XIII. The Bank to lend
Congress one million, two hundred
thousand pounds, lawful, at eight
per cent, interest; for the payment
of which, with its interest, a certain
unalienable fund of one hundred
and ten thousand, four hundred
pounds per annum, to be establish-
ed for twenty years. The States,
generally and severally, to pledge
themselves for this sum, and for
the due appropriation of the fund.

surance of these contracts should
take place : the profits of them
would be no trifling inducement
to adventurers ; it would have the
air of employing the money sub-
scribed in trade. As soon, there-
fore, as the plan should be resolved
upon, negotiations should be begun
for the purpose. It is so clearly
the interest of the French govern-
ment to enter into these contracts,
that they must be blind not to do
it, especially when it is proposed
under the aspect of a method of
re-establishing our finances. The
present loss on their bills is enor-
mous. The Bank may engage to
receive them at a moderate dis-
count, and to supply on better
terras than they now make. Their
business is at this time trusted to a
variety of hands, some of which are
neither very skilful nor very honest:
competitions, frauds, and addition-
al expense, are the consequences.

Congress could not hesitate on
their parts, as the amount of the
contracts would be a part of the
loan required in Article XIII.

Remark 13. This loan will en-
able Congress to get through the
expenses of the year. There may
be a small deficiency, but this will
be easily supplied. The credit of
the Bank once established, it may
increase its stock, and lend an
equal sum every year during the
war. This loan may be advanced,
partly in a contract for provisions,
clothing, etc., and partly in cash,
at periodical payments, to avoid a
HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[^T. 24.

Congress to have a right, at any
intermediate period, to pay off the
debt, with the interest to the time
of payment. The same rule to
govern in all future loans.

Art. XIV. The Bank to be-
come responsible for the redemp-
tion of all the paper now emitted ;
the old. at forty for one in thirty
years, the new at par, with gold
and silver, according to the terms
promised by Congress in their re-
solution of March, '80. One-third
of the first to be redeemed at the
end of every ten years ; and the
whole of the last to be redeemed
at the expiration of the six years
specified by Congress, with the in-
terest of five per cent. The United
States, in compensation for this re-
sponsibility, to establish certain
funds for an annuity, payable to
the Bank, equal to the discharge
of the whole amount of the paper
currency in thirty years, with an
interest of two per cent, per annum.

too quick multiplication of Bank
notes.

Remark 14. It is of the great-
est importance that the old curren-
cy should be fixed at a certain value,
or there will be danger of its infect-
ing the future paper : besides, we
want to raise it to a point that will
make it approach nearer to an ad-
equate medium. I have chosen
the resolution of March, '80, as a
standard. We ought not, on any
account, to raise the value of the
old paper higher than forty to one,
for this will give it about the degree
of value that is most salutary ; at
the same time that it will avoid
a second breach of faith, which
would cause a violent death to all
future credit. A stable currency
is an idea fundamental to all prac-
ticable schemes of finance. It is
the duty and interest of the public
to give stability to that which now
exists ; and it will be the interest
of the Bank, which alone can eifect
it, to co-operate. I have not men-
tioned the amount of the annuity
to be paid by Congress, because I
have not materials to judge what
quantity of paper money now ex-
ists ; since it will be necessary to
take all the State emissions into
the calculation. I suppose (includ-
ing State emissions) there may be
about four hundred millions of
dollars of the old standard, and
about four millions of the new.*
This will give us, in specie-value,
about fourteen millions of dollars.
This is what the Bank is to become

* It is impossible too soon to make some arrangement that will enable Congress
to put a stop to the further emission.

^T.24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 249

answerable for, and what the public
is to pay, by an annuity of thirty
years, with two per cent, interest.
This annuity would amount to six
hundred and eleven thousand, three
hundred and thirty-three, and one-
third, dollars, for which funds are
to be provided.

By a rough calculation, I find
that the Bank would gain, in the
thirty years, about three millions
of dollars, ou the simple footing
of interest ; and that it will, at
different periods, have more pub-
lic money in its possession, than it
will be in advance at others : so
that, upon the whole, the sum it
will gain in interest, will be for the
loan of its credit to the public, not
of any specific sum of cash. Be-
sides, the interest of the Bank may
gain a very considerable sum by.
the purchases it may make of the
old paper at its current value, be-
fore the influence of this plan has
time to bring it back to the point
at which it is intended to be fixed.*
It is the obvious interest of the
United States to concur in this
plan, because, by paying three
millions of dollars in interest to
the Bank, more than it would have
to pay to the money-holders, agree-
ably to its present engagements, it
would avoid a new breach of faith,
fix its circulating medium increased
in value more than one-half, ren-
der the taxes more productive, and
introduce order into its finances,
without which our independence is
lost. It will also have only about
two-thirds of the funds to establish
for this plan that are required by

* There is another immense consideration. The proprietors of the Bank will
he the holders of a great part of this paper. They have it in their power to
double the value of it by this plan : which is, in other words, to gain a hundred
per cent.

250 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

the Act of March, '80, to discharge
the new bills : it will, of course,
reserve a large balance towards the
current expenses, which is no in-
significant consideration.

Perhaps it may be imagined,
that the same funds established for
the redemption of the money in
the same time, without passing
through the Bank, would have an
equal effect upon its credit, and
then we should save the interest of
two per cent. Experience proves
the contrary. We find the new
notes depreciating in the States
which have provided good funds.
The truth is, there is not confi-
dence enough in any funds merely
public. The responsibility of the
Bank would beget a much stronger
persuasion of the paper being re-
deemed, and have incomparably
more efficacy in raising and con-
firming its credit. Besides, the
Bank might immediately reduce
the quantity by purchase, which
the public could not do.

It will be observed, that of the
six millions of dollars which con-
stitute our annual revenue, I re-
quire nine hundred and seventy-
nine thousand, three hundred and
thirty-three, and one-third, dollars,
in funds, to reimburse the loan for
the first year, and pay off the
annuity for the redemption of the
old paper. It may be asked, where
these funds are to be procured in
the present impotence of our fed-
eral government. I answer, there
are ample means for them, and
they must be had. Congress must
deal plainly with their constituents.
They must tell them, that power
without revenue is a bubble ; that
unless they give them substantial
resources of the latter, they will
not have enough of the former,

^T.24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 251

either to prosecute tlie war. or to
maintain the Union in peace ;
that, in short, they must, in justice
to the public and to their own
honor, renounce the vain attempt
of carrying on the war without
either ; a perseverance in which,
can only deceive the people, and
betray their safety. They must
demand an instant, positive, and
perpetual investiture of an impost
on trade ; a land tax. and a poll
tax, to be collected by their own
agents. This Act to become a
part of the Confederation.

It has ever been my opinion
that Congress ought to have com-
plete sovereignty in all but the
mere municipal law of each State ;
and I wish to see a convention of
all the States, with full power to
alter and amend, finally and irre-
vocably, the present futile and
senseless Confederation.

The taxes specified, may be
made to amount to three millions
of dollars ; the other three mil-
lions to be raised by requisition, as
heretofore.

Art. XV. The Bank notes to Remark 15. It is essential
be received in payment of all pub- that all taxes should be raised,
lie customs and taxes, at an equi- throughout the United States, in
valent with gold and silver. specie, or Bank notes at par, or

the old paper at its current value
at the time of payment. This will
serve to increase the circulation
and credit of the Bank notes ; but
no person should be obliged to re-
ceive them in private dealings.
Their credit must depend on
opinion ; and this opinion would
be injured by legislative interposi-
tion.

Art. XVI. The Bank to dis- Ri^mark 1G. This permission
solve itself whenever it thinks pro- to dissolve or sell at pleasure, will
per, making eflfectual provision for encourage men to adventure ; and,
HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[^T. 24.

the payment of its debts ; and a when once engaged, the profits

proprietor of Bank stock to have will make them willing to con-

the privilege of selling out when- tinue.
ever he pleases.

Art. XVII. The Bank to be Reimark 17. This is chiefly to
established for thirty years by way prevent some speculative men be-
ef experiment. ing alarmed, who, upon the wliole,

may think a paper credit detri-
mental and dangerous, though
they would be willing, from neces-
sity, to encourage it for a limited
time. Experience, too, may show
the defects of this plan, and give
rise to alterations for the better.

Art. XVIII. No other Bank,
public or private, to be permitted
during that period.

Remark 18. Other Banks
might excite a competition pre-
judicial to the interests of this,
and multiply and diversify paper
credit too much.

Art. XIX. Three Banks to Remark 19. These Banks
be erected in Massachusetts, Penn- ought to be in the interior of the
sylvania, and Virginia, to facilitate country, remote from danger, with
the circulation and payment of the every precaution for their security
Bank notes. in every way. Their distance from

the capital trading points, will be
an advantage, as it will make ap-
plications for the payment of Bank
notes less convenient.

Art. XX. The affairs of the
Bank to be managed by twelve
general Directors, men of reputa-
tion and fortune ; eight of them
to be chosen by the private pro-
prietors, and four by Congress.
The Minister of Finance to have
the privilege of inspecting all their
proceedings.

Remark 20. It is necessary,
for reciprocal security of the pub-
lic, the proprietors, and the people,
that the aifairs of the Bank should
be conducted under a joint direc-
tion.

These, as has been already observed, are only intended as
ontlines ; the form of administration for the Bank, and all other
matters, may be easily determined, if the leading principles are
once approved, "We shall find good models in the different

iET.24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 253

European Banks, wliicliwe can accommodate to our circumstances.
Great care, in particular, should be employed to guard against
counterfeits ; and I think methods may be devised that would be
effectual.

I see nothing to prevent the practicability of a plan of this
kind, but a distrust of the final success of the war, which may make
men afraid to risk any considerable part of their fortunes in the
public funds ; but, without being an enthusiast, I will venture to
assert, that, with such a resource as is here proposed, the loss of
our independence is impossible. All we have to fear is, that the
want of money may disband the army, or so perplex and en-
feeble our operations, as to create in the people a general disgust
and alarm, which may make them clamor for peace on any
terms. But if a judicious administration of our finances, assisted
by a Bank, takes place, and the ancient security of property is
restored, no convulsion is to be apprehended. Our opposition will
soon assume an aspect of system and vigor, that will relieve and
encourage the people, and put an end to the hopes of the enemy.
'Tis evident they have it not in their power to subdue us by force
of arms. In all these States they have not more than fifteen thou-
sand effective troops, nor is it possible for them much to aug-
ment this number. The East and West Indies demand reinforce-
ments. In all the Islands, they have not, at this time, above five
thousand men ; a force not more than equal to the j)roper garri-
soning of Jamaica alone ; and which, the moment they lose a
maritime superiority in those seas, will leave them much cause
to fear for their possessions. They will probably send out fifteen
hundred or two thousand men, to recruit their regiments already
here ; but this is the utmost they can do.

Our allies have five thousand men at Rhode Island, which,
in the worst event that can happen, will be recruited to eight, to
co-operate with us on a defensive plan. Should our army amount
to no more than fifteen thousand men, the combined forces,
though not equal to the expulsion of the enemy, will be equal to
the purpose of compelling them to renounce their offensive, and
content themselves with maintaining one or two capital points-
This is on the supposition that the public have the means of

254 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 24.

putting tlieir troops in activity. Bj stopping tlie progress of
their conquests, and reducing tliem to an unmeaning and dis-
graceful defensive, we destroy tlie national expectation of suc-
cess, from wliicli the ministry draw their resources. It is not
a vague conjecture, but a fact founded on the best information,
that, had it not been for the capture of Charleston, and the
victory of Camden, the ministry would have been in the utmost
embarrassment for the supplies of this year. On the credit of
those events, they procured a loan of five and twenty millions.
They are in a situation where a want of splendid successes is
ruin. They have carried taxation nearly to its extreme bound-
ary; they have mortgaged all their funds; they have a large
unfunded debt, besides the enormous mass which is funded.
This must necessarily create apprehensions in their most sanguine
partisans : and if these are not counteracted by flattering events,
from time to time, they cannot much longer continue the delu-
sion. Indeed, in this case, I suppose they must themselves
despair.

The game we play is a sure game, if we play it with skill. I
have calculated, in the preceding observations, on the most dis-
advantageous side. Many events may turn wp, in the course of
the summer, to make even the present campaign decisive.

If we compare the real ability of France, for revenue, with
that of Great Britain ; the economy and sagacity in the conduct
of the finances of the former ; the extravagance and dissipation
which are overwhelming those of the latter ; there will be found
every reason to believe, that the resources of France will out-
last those of her adversary. Her fleet is not much inferior, inde-
pendent of that of Spain and Holland. Combined with that of
Spain, it is greatly superior. If the Dutch enter into the Avar in
earnest, and add their fleet, the superiority will be irresistible.
Notwithstanding the injury they may sustain in the first instance,
the Dutch will be still formidable : they are rich in credit, and
have extensive means for maritime power.

Except the Emperor, who is hostile, and the Dane, who is
neutral, all the rest of Europe are either friends to France or to
our independence.

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 255

Never did a nation nnite more circumstances in its favor
than we do : we have nothing against us but our own miscon-
duct.

There are two classes of men among us, equally mistaken :
one who, in spite of daily experience, of accumulated distress,
persist in a narrow line of policy, and, amidst the most
threatening dangers, fancy every thing in perfect security.
Another, who, judging too much from the outside, alarmed by
partial misfortunes, and the disordered state of our finances,
without estimating the real faculties of the parties, give them-
selves up to an ignorant and ill-founded despondency. We
want to learn to appreciate our true situation and that of the
enemy. This would preserve us from a stupid insensibility to
danger on the one hand, and inspire us with a reasonable and
enlightened confidence on the other.

But let us suppose the worst, that we shall, after all, fail in
our independence; our return to Great Britain, whenever it
should happen, would be by compact. The war w^ould termi-
nate by a mediation. It cannot be supposed that the mediator
would be so devoted to Great Britain, or would have so little
consideration for France, as to oblige us to revert to our former
subjection by an unconditional surrender. While they might
confirm his dominion over us, they would endeavor to save
appearances for the honor of France, and stipulate terms as
favorable to us as would be compatible with a state of depend-
ence. A general amnesty, and the security of private property
(of course the payment of public debts), would be among the
most simple and most indispensable. This would comprehend
the concerns of the Bank ; and if, unfortunately for our virtue,
such a circumstance could operate as an inducement, it might be
added, that our enemies would be glad to find, and to encourage
such an institution among us for their own benefit.

A question may arise concerning the abilities of these States
to pay their debts after the establishment of their independence ;
and though any doubt on this head must originate in gross
ignorance, it may be necessary to oppose it with more than
general argument, as has been done heretofore. A very sum-

256 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t, 24.

mary and obvious calculation will sliow that there is nothing to
be dreaded on this head.

The funds of nine hundred and seventy-nine thousand, three
hundred and thirty -three, and one-third, dollars, proposed to be
established for paying off the loan of the first year, and for re-
deeming the present paper, will, in thirty years, wipe off all the
debts of the States, except those contracted to foreigners, which,
I imagine, do not amount to four milhons of dollars. Suppose
we should be obliged, for two years besides the present, to
borrow an equal sum each year from the Bank ; the fund re-
quisite to discharge these loans, on the same terms with the first,
will amount to seven hundred and thirty-six thousand dollars,
to be deducted from the five million, and twenty thousand, six
hundred and sixty-six, and two-thirds, dollars, remaining on the
annual revenue ; which will reduce it to four milhons, two hun-
dred and eighty-four thousand, six hundred and sixty-six, and
two-thirds, dollars : then the debt unfunded will be,

To foreigners already contracted by supposition, .... $4,000,000
Deficiency of Revenue to the expense to be obtained on credit, the

first year, besides the loan from the Bank, .... 1,479,333|
Deficiency of Revenue for the second year deducting the fund for

discharging the loan of this year, 1,847,333^

Deficiency of Revenue for the third year, making the same deduction, 2,2 1 5.333g-

$9,542,000

Should, then, the war last three years longer, which must
probably be the utmost term of its duration, we shall find our-
selves with an unfunded debt of nine million, five hundred and
forty-two thousand dollars, and an unappropriated revenue of
four million, two hundred and eighty -four thousand, six hundred
and sixty-six, and two-thirds, dollars.

The surplus of four millions, which is two hundred and
eighty-four thousand, six hundred and sixty-six, and two-thirds,
dollars, and the funds appropriated to the payment of the other
debts which will revert to the public at. the end of thirty years,
will be a sufficient fund for the redemption of this debt in about

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. . 257

thirty-five years : so that, according to my plan, at the end of
thirty -five years these States have paid off the whole debt con-
tracted on account of the war ; and, in the mean time, will have
a cle'ar revenue of four millions of dollars, for defraying the ex-
penses of their civil and military establishments.

This calculation supposes the ability of these States for reve-
nue to continue the same as they now are, which is a supposi-
tion both false and unfavorable. Speaking within moderate
bounds, our population will be doubled in thirty years ; there
will be a confluence of emigrants from all |3arts of the world •
our commerce will have a proportionable progress ; and of course
our wealth and capacity for revenue. It will be a matter of
choice if we are not out of debt in twenty years, without at all
encumbering the people.

A national debt, if it is not excessive, will be to us a national
blessing. It will be a powerful cement of our Union. It will
also create a necessity for keeping up taxation to a degree which,
without being oppressive, will be a spur to industry, remote as
we are from Europe, and shall be from danger. It were other-
wise to be feared our popular maxims would incline us to too
great parsimony and indulgence. "We labor less now than any
civilized nation of Europe ; and a habit of labor in the people,
is as essential to the health and vigor of their minds and bodies,
as it is conducive to the welfare of the State. We ought not
to suffer our self-love to deqeive us in a comparison upon these
points.

I have spun out this letter to a much greater length than I
intended. To develope the whole connection of my ideas on
the subject, and place my plan in the clearest light, I have in-
dulged myself in many observations which might have been
omitted. I shall not longer intrude upon your patience than to
assure you of the sincere sentiments of esteem with which I have
the honor to be.

Sir, your most obedient and humble servant,

A. Hamilton,

VOL. I. 17

258 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

De Pbyster's Point, May 2, 1781.

Sir:

I am extremely sorry to have embarrassed you by my late
application, and that you should think there are insuj^erable ob-
stacles to a compliance with it. Having renounced my expecta-
tions, I have no other inducement for troubling your Excellency
with a second letter, than to obviate the appearance of having
desired a thing inconsistent with the good of the service, while
I was acquainted with the circumstances that made it so.

I was too interested a spectator of what happened in the case
of Major M'Pherson, not to have remarked, and not to recollect
all the circumstances. The opposition turned ostensibly on his
being a brevet officer, yet having a command in a corps formed
entirely from one line : the propriety of his being employed in
a detachment from the army at large, so far as I remember, was
not disputed. In delicacy to Major M'Pherson, no personal ob-
jections were formally made : but in reality they existed, and
contributed to the discontent. It was thought a peculiar hard-
ship, that a gentleman who had, for a long time, fought against
us, and had not taken part with us till a late period, and when
our affairs had assumed a more prosperous aspect, should be pre-
ferred in one of the most honorary commands of the service. Your
Excellency must be convinced, that I mention this in no other
view than to show the sentiments of the officers at the time, and
the whole grounds for the opposition. My esteem for Major
M'Pherson, and other reasons, make it impossible I can have a
different intention.

I know less of the motives of dissatisfaction in the case of Col-
onel Gimat and Major Galvan ; but I have understood that it is
founded on their being appointed in the light corps for two suc-
cessive campaign?.

It would be uncandid in me, not to acknowledge that I be-
lieve a disposition to exclude brevet officers in general from com-
mand, has a great share in the opposition in every instance ; and
that so far it affects my case. But, at the same time, it appears
to me, this principle alone can never be productive of more than

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 259

momentary murmurs, where it is not seconded by some plausi-
ble pretext. I also am convinced that the Pennsylvania officers,
for their own sakes, repented the rash steps they had taken ; and,
on cool reflection, were happy in an opportunity to relinquish
their menaces of quitting a service to which they were attached
by habit, inclination, and interest, as well as by patriotism. I
believe, too, we shall never have a similar instance in the army,
unless the practice should be carried to excess. Major Gal van,
I am told, will probably be relieved. Colonel Gimat will be
then the only brevet officer remaining in command. Your Ex-
cellency is the best judge of the proper limits; and there can be
no doubt, that the rights of particular officers ought to give place
to the general good and tranquillity of the service.

I cannot forbear repeating, that my case is peculiar, and dis-
similar to all the former. It is distinguished by the circum-
stances I have before intimated ; my early entrance into the
service ; my having made the campaign of '76, the most disa-
greeable of the war, at the head of a company of artillery, and
having been entitled, in that corps, to a rank, equal in degree,
more ancient in date, than I now possess ; my having made all
the subsequent campaigns in the family of the Commander-in-
Chief, in a constant course of important and laborious service.
These are my pretensions, at this advanced period of the war, to
being employed in the only way which my situation admits ;
and I imagine they would have their weight in the minds of the
officers in general. I only urge them a second time, as reasons
which will not suffer me to view the matter in the same light
with your Excellency, or to regard, as impracticable, my appoint-
ment in a light corps, should there be one formed. I entreat
they may be understood in this sense only. I am incapable of
wishing to obtain any object by importunity. I assure your Ex-
cellency, that I am too well persuaded of your candor, to attrib-
ute your refusal to any other cause than an apprehension of in-
conveniences that may attend the appointment.

I have the honor to be, with perfect respect.

Sir, your most obed't servant,

A. Hamilton.

General Washington.

260 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

P. S. I liave used tlie term brevet in tlie sense your Excel-
lency appears to have understood it in, as signifying, in general,
all officers not attached to any established corps. Congress seem,
however, to have made a distinction: they only give a kind of
warrant to those whom they designate as brevet officers. Mine
is a regular commission.

LE VICOMTE DE NOAILLES A HAMILTON.

Newport, 10 May, 1781.

Je suis certain, mon cher Colonel, de vous fiiire plaisir en
vous aprenant que votre ami Laurens est arrive a Paris en
bonne sante, apres une traversee favorable. Au depart de la
frigate La Concorde arrivee a Boston avec M. de Barras amirat,
qui vient prendre le commandement de notre flotte, et M. le
Vicomte de Rochambau, Mr. Laurens avait deja eu plusieurs con-
ferences avec nos ministres ; il aura 6te bien ecoute et bien en-
tendu de celui qui est charge du departement de la marine, ainsi
que de notre controleur general. Ces deux hommes paraissent
influes infiniment dans ce moment sur I'opinion du Roi de
France et celle du peuple ; qui iinit en France, com me dans tous
les pays du monde par etre entendue. Yous saurez certainement
quels sont les preparatifs pour cette campagne ; je desire que
nous puissions delivrer l'Am6rique des souffrances qu'elle
6prouve : quoique je ne sois point ne dans un pays libre mon
cher Colonel, je verrai avec plaisir les fondemens que vous allez
etablir pour le bonheur et la tranquillity d'un j^euple chez lequel
toutes les nations de I'Europe auront les memes droits. Une
fois cette epoque arrivee, I'Humanite jettera avec plaisir ses
yeux sur I'autre monde, et verra sans envi un peuple qui ne
devra son bonheur qu'a son propre courage. S'il m'est possible
de placer une petite pierre dans ce vaste edifice, je me trouverai
parfaitement heureux.

Le Ministre charge de gouverner les finances fte notre puis-

JEr.2i.] CORRESPONDENCE. 261

sance vient d'obtenir du roi de France la permission de kii rendre

"im compte public de son administration depuis cinq-ans qu'il en

a la direction: cet exemple, le premier de ce genre 'a frapp6

I'Europe d'etonnement et d'amiration pour la conduite de ce

grand homme; il-prouve qu'au commencement de son ministere

les depenses de I'Etat excedait les recettes de 24 millions. Les

diff^rentes economies qu'il a pu etablir, malgre la guerre et les

frais enormes qu'elle exige, a retabli non seulement I'equilibre

mais meme un benefice de dix millions de rente excedante et

dix sept millions cinq-cent mille livres, employe annuellement a

des remboursements de rentes perpetuelles. Ce qui produit

maintenant 27 millions de rente de plus que de depense. La

maniere 6nergique, raissonnee et claire rend son ouvrage per-

suasif aux yeux meme de ses ennemis. Je compte vous en-

voyer ce livre par la premiere occasion et par celle-ci meme, si

I'homme qui vous remettra ma lettre veut s'en charger.

Je vous demanderais pardon de mon importunite, mon Cher

Colonel, si je n'avais pas et6 assez heureux pour vous donner de

nouvelles de notre ami. Je vous prie de ne pas douter de I'ex-

treme plaisir que j'aurai dans tons les terns de ma vie a vous

prouver combien mon attacbement pour vous est tendre et

sincere.

Le Vicomte de Noailles.

Je vous prie de presenter mon respectueux bommage a Son
Excellence le General Washington ; il force ses ennemis memes
a I'estimer, et lorsqu'on I'a vu deux fois il laisse I'impression du
respect le plus tendre.

Col. Hamilton.

CARTER TO HAMILTON".

Newport, May 18, 1781,

My Dear Sir:

M. de Barras arrived a few days since, with the General's
son, in a frigate from France. He has taken the command of

262 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 24.

the fleet, Seveii liundred land forces are now embarking, tlie

wind is fair, and they sail this day to meet the convoy expected

from France, with provisions and recruits for the regiments here.

I fear they will have a very trifling augmentation of force, and

that this campaign will prove as inactive as the last. I imagine

you will be with General Washington at the conference. You

will have the pleasure to see General Chastellux, who will give

you this letter. At his return, I expect it will be decided

whether the army marches or not : at present it seems a matter

of great doubt, notwithstanding the preparations which are

making. I am astonished we hear nothing from the southward.

I fear, if the detachment, embarked at New-York, is destined for

that quarter, that the enemy will make a considerable progress.
*******

Your friend and servant,

John Cartek.

Colonel Hamilton.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, May 23, 178L

My Dear Hamilton:

I have been long complaining that I had nothing to do ; and
want of employment was an objection I had to my going to the
southward. But for the present, my dear friend, my complaint
is quite of an opposite nature; and I have so many arrange-
ments to make, so many difficulties to combat, so many enemies
to deal with, that I am just that much of a general, as will make
me a historian of misfortunes, and nail my name upon the ruins
of what good folks are pleased to call the army in Virginia.

There is an age past since I heard from you. I acknowledge
that, on my part, I have not written so often as I ought to have
done ; but you will excuse this silence in favor of my very em-
barrassing circumstances. However remote you may be from
your former post of aid-de-camp to the Commander-in-Chief, I

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 263

am sure you are nevertlieless acquainted witli every transaction
at head quarters. My letters have served to your information,
and I shall consequently abstain from repetitions.

Our forced march saved Kichmond ; Phillips was going
down ; and thus far I was very happy. Phillips's return, his
landing at Brandon, south side of James Eiver, and the unmo-
lested journey of Lord Cornwallis through North Carolina, made
me apprehensive of the storm that was gathering. I advanced
towards Petersburg, and intended to have established a commu-
nication ujjon James and Appamatox Elvers. Had Phillips
marched to Halifax, I was determined to follow him ; and
should have risked every thing rather than to omit making a
diversion in favor of Greene. But that army took possession of
Petersburg, and obliged me to stick to this side of the river,
from whence reinforcements are expected. Both armies have
formed their junction, and must consist of between four and five
thousand men. We have nine hundred continentals. Their
infantry is near five to one ; their cavalry ten to one. Our
militia are not numerous, come without arms, and are not used
to war. Government wants energy; and there is nothing to
enforce the laws. General Greene has directed me to take com-
mand in this State ; and I must tell, by the way, that his letter
is very polite and affectionate. It then became my duty to
arrange the departments, which I found in the greatest confu-
sion and relaxation. Nothing can be obtained, and yet expenses
were enormous.

The Baron, and the few new levies he could collect, are or-
dered to South Carolina. I am glad he goes, as the hatred of
the Virginians to him was truly hurtful to the service. Is it not
strange that General Wayne's detachment cannot be heard of?
They are to go to Carolina ; but should I want them for a few
days, I am at liberty to keep them. This permission I will im-
prove, so far as to receive one blow, that, being beat, I may at
least be beat with some decency. There are accounts that make
Lord Cornwallis very strong : others make him very weak. In
this country there is no getting good intelligence.

I request you will write me, if you approve of my conduct.

264 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 24.

The command of tlie waters, the superiority in cavalry, and the
great disproportion of forces, gave the enemy such advantages,
that I durst not venture out, and listen to my fondness for en-
terprise. To speak truth, I was afraid of myself as much as of
the enemy. Independence has rendered me the more cautious,
as I know my own warmth. But if the Pennsylvanians come.
Lord Cornwallis shall pay something for his victory.

I wish a reinforcement of light infantry^ to recruit the bat-
talions, or a detachment under General Huntington was sent to
me, I wish Laurens or Sheldon were immediately dispatched
with their horse.

Come here, my dear friend, and command our artillery in
Virginia. I want your advice and your exertions. If you gTant
my request, you will vastly oblige,

Your friend.

La Fayette.

Colonel Hamilton.

MOEEIS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 26, 1781.

Sir:

It is some time since I received your performance dated the
30th of April last. I have read it with that attention which it
justly deserves, and finding many points of it to coincide with my
own opinions on the subject, it naturally strengthened that con-
fidence which every man ought to possess, to a certain degree, in
his own judgment. You will very soon see the plan of a Bank
published, and subscriptions opened for its establishment, having
already met with the approbation of Congress. It only remains
for individuals to do their part, and a foundation will be laid for
the anticipation of taxes and funds, by a jDaper credit that cannot
depreciate.

The capital proposed falls far short of your idea, and, indeed,
far short of what it ought to be ; but I am confident, if this is
once accomplished, the capital may afterwards be increased to

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 265

almost any amount. To propose a large sum in tlie outset, and
fail in tlie attempt to raise it, might prove fiital. To begin with
what is clearly in our power to accomplish, and on that begin-
ning, to establish the credit that will inevitably command the
future increase of capital, seems the most certain road to success.
I have thought much about interweaving a landed security with
the capital of this Bank, but am apprehensive it would convey
to the public mind, an idea of paper being circulated on that
credit, and that the Bank, of consequence, must fail in its pay-
ments, in case of any considerable run on it : and we must ex-
pect that its ruin will be attempted, by external and internal foes.
I have therefore left that point to the future deliberations of the
Directors of this Bank, to whom, in due time, I shall communi-
cate your address. I esteem myself much your debtor for this
piece, not merely on account of the personal respect you have
been pleased to express, but also on account of your good in-
tentions : and for these, and the pains you have taken, I not only
think, but on all proper occasions, shall say, the public are also
indebted to you.

My of&ce is new, and I am young in the execution of it.
Communications from men of genius and abilities will always be
acceptable ; and yours will always command the attention of,
Sir,

Your obedient, humble servant,

EOBEET MOREIS.

Colonel Hamilton.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

Albany, May 30, 1781.

Dear Sir ;

Your favor, covering copies of the letters which passed be-
tween the General and you, I received on Friday last at Sara-
toga, which I left, somewhat indisposed, on Sunday, and arrived
in the evening. The fatigue of the journey increased my dis-
order, which is the quinsy, with so much rapidity, that before

266 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 24.

Tuesday morning I was twice bled to prevent suffocation. The
inflammation is subsiding, and I have been able to swallow a
little broth to-daj. I propose to attend the Legislature the latter
end of the next week, when I shall have the pleasure of seeing
you at Fishkill on the Sunday following. I believe you may
prepare yourself to go to Philadelphia, as there is little doubt
but you will be appointed.

The enemy are arrived at Crown Point : their number not
perfectly ascertained, but I believe about two thousand. It is
said they intend to fortify there. A rumor prevails that the
three companies of Van Schaik's, now to the northward, are to
be called down. If so, I shall instantly remove my family and
stock from Saratoga, being certain, if I delay it more than four
days after the troops move, that the enemy will possess them-
selves of the whole. Adieu.

I am, dear Sir,

Most affectionately

And sincerely.

Your obedient servant,

Ph: Schuyler.
Colonel Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MRS. HAMILTON".

Camp near Dobbs' Ferry, July 10, 1781.
The day before yesterday I arrived here, but for want of an
opportunity could not write any sooner ; indeed, I know of none
now. Finding when I came here, that nothing was said on the
subject of a command, I wrote the Greneral a letter, and inclosed
him my commission. This morning Tilghman came to me in
his name, pressed me to retain my commission, with an assu-
rance that he would endeavor, by all means, to give me a com-
mand, nearly such as I could have desired in the present cir-
cumstances of the army. Though I know you would be happy
to hear I had rejected this proposal, it is a pleasure my reputa-

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 267

tion would not permit me to afford you. I consented to retain

my commission, and accept the command. I quarter, at present,

by a very polite and warm invitation, with General Lincoln,

and experience from the oflEicers of both armies every mark of

esteem. * '^ *

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Camp, August 7, 1781.

Sir:

The other day I applied to Colonel Tilghman for an order
for shoes, for the two companies of levies. He thought, on a
general principle, it could not be granted ; but as from the best
of my own recollection, confirmed by inquiry of others, I have
reason to believe a distinction was made last campaign in favor
of the advanced corps, in the case of Cortland's regiment, I am
induced to submit the matter to your Excellency.

Your Excellency is sensible that the service of an advanced
corps, must be in general more active than of the line ; and
that, in a country like this, the article of shoes is indispensable.
If the men cannot be supplied, they cannot perform the duty re-
quired of them ; which will make the service fall heavier upon
that part of the corps which is not under the same disability, as
well as render a considerable part of it of much less utility. I
will not add any personal consideration to those which affect
the service ; though it certainly cannot be a matter of indiffer-
ence to me.

The men, I am informed, have, in general, received a boun-
ty of about thirty pounds each, which is spent. The State
makes no provision for them ; and the fact is, they cannot sup-
ply themselves : they must therefore be destitute if they have
not a continental supply.

The distinction l^st campaign, was, if I am not mistaken,

268 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 24.

that shoes were an article of absolute necessity, and therefore

to be allowed, though the articles of clothing were refused.

I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully.

Your Excellency's

Most ob't and humble serv't,

A. Hamilton.
To General Washington.

HAMILTON TO MRS. HAMILTON.

August, 1781.

In my last letter I informed you that there was a greater
prospect of activity now, than there had been heretofore. I did
this to prepare your mind for an event which, I am sure, will
give you pain. I begged your father, at the same time, to inti-
mate to you, by degrees, the probability of its taking place. I
used this method to prevent a surprise, which might be too
severe to you. A part of the army, my dear girl, is going to
Virginia, and I must, of necessity, be sej)arated at a much greater
distance from my beloved wife. I cannot announce the fatal
necessity, without feeling every thing that a fond husband can
feel. I am unhappy ; I am unhappy beyond expression. I
am unhappy, because I am to be so remote from you ; because
I am to hear from you less frequently than I am accustomed
to do. I am miserable, because I know you will be so; I
am wretched at the idea of flying so far from you, without a
single hour's interview, to tell you all my pains and all my love.
But I cannot ask permission to visit you. It might be thought
improper to leave my corps at such a time, and upon such an
occasion. I must go without seeing you — I must go without em-
bracing you ; — alas ! I must go. But let no idea, other than of
the distance we shall be asunder, disquiet you. Though I said
the prospects of activity will be greater, I said it to give your
expectations a different turn, and prej)are you for something dis-

tEt. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 269

agreeable. It is ten to one that our views will be disappointed,
by Cornwallis retiring to Soutb Carolina by land. At all events,
our operations will be over by tbe latter end of October, and I
will fly to my home. Don't mention I am going to Virginia.

HAMILTON TO MES. HAMILTON.

Head of Elk, September 6, 1781.

Yesterday, my lovely wife, I wrote to you, inclosing you a
letter in one to your father, to the care of Mr. Morris. To-mor-
row the post sets out, and to-morrow we embark for Yorktown.
I cannot refuse myself the pleasure of writing you a few lines.
Constantly uppermost in my thoughts and affections, I am happy
only when my moments are devoted to some office that respects
you. I would give the world to be able to tell you all I feel
and all I wish, but consult your own heart and you will know
mine. What a world will soon be between us ! To support the
idea, all my fortitude is insufficient. What must be the case
with you, who have the most female of female hearts? I
sink at the perspective of your distress, and I look to heaven to
be your guardian and supporter. Circumstances that have just
come to my knowledge, assure me that our operations will be
expeditious, as well as our success certain. Early in November,
as I promised you, we shall certainly meet. Cheer yourself with
this idea, and with the assurance of never more being separated.
Every day confirms me in the intention of renouncing public
life, and devoting myself wholly to you. Let others waste their
time and their tranquillity in a vain pursuit of power and glory ;
be it my object to be happy in a quiet retreat with my better

angel.

A. Hamilton.

270 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 24.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

Albany, September 16, 1781.

My Dear Sir:

The mail wliicli was taken a few days ago at Hampton, lias
probably deprived me of tbe pleasure of a line from you.

We are advised, by a letter from Mr. Carter, tliat General
Washington embarked with all except the rear division of the
French, at the head of Elk on the 8th inst. ; hence I hope you
are now operating against Cornwallis. It is difficult to judge
with precision of your prospects at this distance ; but matters
and appearances are so favorable, that they justify a hope that
the operations will be crowned with ample success.

The Legislature of this State is to convene on the 1st of
October, at Poughkeepsie : delegates are to be chosen: your
friends will propose you. If you should be appointed, you will
have time to consider, whether to accept or refuse will be
most eligible. Should Cornwallis and his army fall into our
hands, peace may, and probably will, be the consequence. K
so, I should most earnestly wish you in Congress : and if not,
I should still prefer it to your remaining in the army, for reasons
that are obvious.

I am, dear Sir,

Affectionately and sincerely,
Your obedient servant,

Ph: Schuyler,
Colonel Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO LA FAYETTE.

Camp before York Town, Oct. 15, 1781.

Sir:

I have the honor to render you an account of the corps
under my command in your attack of last night upon the re-
doubt on the left of the enemy's lines.

^T. 24.] CORRESPONDENCE. 2*71

Agreeably to your orders we advanced in two columns with
unloaded arms: tlie right composed of Lieutenant-Colonel
Gimat's battalion and my own, commanded by Major Fish ; the
left, of a detachment commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Laurens,
destined to take the enemy in reverse, and intercept their re-
treat. The column on the right was preceded by a vanguard of
twenty men, led by Lieutenant Mansfield ; and a detachment of
sappers and miners, commanded by Captain Gilliland, for the
purpose of removing obstructions.

The redoubt was commanded by Major Campbell, with a
detachment of British and German troops, and was completely
in a state of defence.

The rapidity and immediate success of the assault are the
best comment on the behavior of the troops. Lieutenant-Colonel
Laurens distinguished himself by an exact and vigorous execu-
tion of his part of the plan, by entering the enemy's work with
his corps among the foremost, and making prisoner the command-
ing ofl&cer of the redoubt. Lieutenant-Colonel Gimat's battalion,
which formed the van of the right-attack, and which fell under
my immediate observation, encouraged by the decisive and ani-
mated example of their leader, advanced with an ardor and reso-
lution superior to every obstacle. They were well seconded by
Major Fish with the battalion under his command, who, when
the front of the column reached the abatis, unlocking his corps
to the left, as he had been directed, advanced with such celerity
as to arrive in time to participate in the assault.

Lieutenant Mansfield deserves particular commendation for
the coolness, firmness, and punctuality with which he conducted
the vanguard. Captain Olney, who commanded the first platoon
of Gimat's battalion, is entitled to peculiar applause. He led his
platoon into the work with exemplary intrepidity, and received
two bayonet wounds. Captain Gilliland, with the detachment of
Sappers and miners, acquitted themselves in a manner that did
them great honor.

I do but justice to the several corps when I have the pleasure
to assure you, there was not an ofi&cer nor soldier whose behavior,

272 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 24.

if it could be particularized, would not liave a claim to the warm-
est approbation. As it would have been attended with delay
and loss, to wait for tlie removal of the abatis and palisades, the
ardor of the troops was indulged in passing over them.

There was a happy coincidence of movements. The redoubt
was in the same moment enveloped and carried in every part.
The enemy are entitled to the acknowledgment of an honorable
defence.

Permit me to have the satisfaction of expressing our obliga-
tions to Col. Armand, Capt. Legongne, the Chevaher De Fonte-
vieux and Capt. Bedkin, ofl&cers of his corps, who, acting upon
this occasion as volunteers, proceeded at the head of the right
column, and entering the redoubt among the first, by their gal-
lant example contributed to the success of the enterprise.

Our killed and wounded you will perceive by the inclosed
return. I sensibly felt, at a critical period, the loss of the assist-
ance of Lieutenant-Colonel Gimat, who received a musket ball
in his foot, which obliged him to retire from the field. Captain
Bets, of Laiirens's corps. Captain Hunt and Lieutenant Mansfield,
of Gimat's, were wounded with the bayonet in gallantly entering
the work. Captain Kirkpatrick, of the corps of sappers and
miners, received a wound in the ditch.

Inclosed is a return of the prisoners. The killed and
wounded of the enemy did not exceed eight. Incapable of imi-
tating exam23les of barbarity, and forgetting recent provocations,
the soldiery spared every man who ceased to fight.
I have the honor to be,

With the warmest esteem and attachment.
Sir, your most ob't and humble serv't,

A. Hamilton,
Lieut. Col. Commanding.

Major-General the Marquis De La Fayette.

JEt. 25.]

CORRESPONDENCE
Return of the killed and wounded in the advanced corps commanded by
Lieutenant-Colonel Hamilton, in an attack on the enemy's left redoubt, on the
evening of the 14th of Oct., 1781.

Lieut.
Col.

Majors.

Capt's.

Sub-
alterns.

Ser
geants.

Rank &

File.

■a

-a

c
a
1
"3

C

a
o

T3

i

-2

c
s
o
1
4

•o

■a
s
s
1
C
1
1
7
8

■a
a
o

Lt. Col. Hamilton's bat-
talion

Lt. Col. Gimat's bat-
talion.

Lt. Col. Laurens' detach-
ment,

Corps of Sappers and
Miners,
15
1

Total, . . .
HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

1782.

Sir:

I need not observe to your Excellency, that respect for the
opinion of Congress will not permit me to be indifferent to the
impressions they may receive of my conduct. On this principle,
though I do not think the subject of the inclosed letter of suffi-
cient importance to request an official communication of it, yet I
should be happy it might in some way be known to the mem-
bers of that honorable body. Should they hereafter learn, that
though retained on the list of their officers, I am not in the ex-
ecution of the duties of my station, I wish them to be sensible,
that it is not a diminution of zeal which induces me voluntarily
to withdraw my services, but that I only refrain from intruding
them, when circumstances seem to have made them either not
necessary or not desired ; and that I shall not receive emolu-
ments without performing the conditions to which they were
VOL. I. 18

274 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

annexed. I also wish tliem to be apprised upon what footing
my future continuance in the army is placed ; that they may
judge how far it is expedient to permit it. I therefore take the
liberty to request the favor of your Excellency to impart the
knowledge of my situation in such manner as you think most
convenient.

I have the honor to be,
With perfect respect,
Your Excellency's

Most ob't and humble servant,

A. Hamilton.
General Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, March 1, 1782.

Sir:

Your Excellency will, I am persuaded, readily admit the
force of this sentiment, that though it is the duty of a good cit-
izen to devote his services to the public, when it has occasion for
them, he cannot, with propriety or delicacy to himself, obtrude
them when it either has, or appears to have, none. The difiicul-
ties I experienced last campaign in obtaining a command, will
not suffer me to make any further application on that head.

As I have many reasons to consider my being employed here-
after in a precarious light, the bare possibility of rendering an
equivalent will not justify, to my scruples, the receiving any
future emoluments from my commission, I therefore renounce,
from this time, all claim to the compensations attached to my mil-
itary station during the war, or after it. But I have motives which
will not permit me to resolve on a total resignation. I sincerely
hope a prosperous train of affairs may continue to make it no
inconvenience to decline the services of persons, whose zeal, in
worse times, was found not altogether useless : but as the most
promising appearances are often reversed by unforeseen disasters.

jet.25.] correspondence. 275

and as unfortunate events may again make the same zeal of some

value, I am unwilling to put it out of my power to renew my

exertions in the common cause, in the line in which I have

hitherto acted,

I shall accordingly retain my rank while I am permitted to do

it ; and take this opportunity to declare, that I shall be at all

times ready to obey the call of the public, in any capacity, civil

or military (consistent with what I owe to myself), in which there

may be a prospect of my contributing to the final attainment

of the object for which I embarked in the service.

I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully.

Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
General Washington.

HAMILTON TO MEADE.

Philadelphia, March, 1782.

A half hour since brought me the pleasure of your letter
of December last. It went to Albany and came from thence to
this place. I heartily felicitate you on the birth of your daugh •
ter. I can well conceive your happiness on that occasion, by
that which I feel on a similar one. Indeed, the sensations of a
tender father of the child of a beloved mother, can only be con-
ceived by those who have experienced them.

Your heart, my Meade, is peculiarly formed for enjoyments
of this kind. You have every right to be a happy husband — a
happy father. You have every prospect of being so. I hope
your felicity may never be interrupted.

You cannot imagine how entirely domestic I am growing. I
lose all taste for the pursuits of ambition. I sigh for nothing but
the company of my wife and my baby. The ties of duty alone,

276 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 25.

or imagined duty, keep me from renouncing public life altogether.
It is, however, probable I may not any longer be engaged in it.
I have explained to you the difficulties which I met with in ob-
taining a command last campaign. I thought it incompatible
with the delicacy due to myself, to make any application this
campaign. I have expressed this sentiment in a letter to the
General, and, retaining my rank only, have relinquished the
emoluments of my commission, declaring myself, notwithstanding,
ready at all times to obey the calls of the public. I don't expect
to hear any of these, unless the state of our affairs should change
for the worse, and lest by any unforeseen accident that would
happen, I choose to keep myself in a situation again to contrib-
ute my aid. This prevents a total resignation.

You were right in supposing I neglected to prepare what I
promised you at Philadelphia. The truth is, I was in such a
hurry to get home that I could think of nothing else. As I set
out to-morrow morning for Albany, I cannot from this place,
send you the matter you wish.

Imagine, my dear Meade, what pleasure it must give Eliza
and myself to know that Mrs. Meade interests herself in us.
Without a personal acquaintance, we have been long attached to
her. My visit at Mr. Fitzhugh's confirmed my partiality. Betsy
is so fond of your family, that she proposes to form a match
between her boy and your girl, provided you will engage to make
the latter as amiable as her mother.

Truly, my dear Meade, I often regret that fortune has cast
our residence at such a distance from each other. It would be a
serious addition to my happiness if we lived where I could see
you every day ; but fate has determined it otherwise. I am a
little hurried, and can only request, in addition, that you will
present me most affectionately to Mrs. Meade, and believe me to
be,

With the warmest

And most unalterable friendship,
Yours,

A. Hamiltoist.

tEt. 25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 277

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.*

Paris, April 12, 1782.

Dear Hamilton :

However silent you may please to be, I will nevertheless re-
mind yon of a friend who loves yon tenderly, and who, by his
attachment, deserves a great share in your affection. This letter,
my dear sir, will be delivered or sent by Count de Segur, an
intimate friend of mine, a man of wit and of abilities, and whose
society you will certainly be pleased with. I warmly recom-
mend him to you, and hope he will meet from you with more
than civilities. Now let us talk politics.

The old Ministry have retired, and Lord North was not sorry
at the opportunity. The new ministers are not much our friends :
they are not friends to each other : they have some honest men
with little sense, and some sensible men without honesty. They
are forced to new measures, not only by circumstances, but also
by the dispositions they have formerly announced.

Entre nous seuls. 81 [the British Ministry] gave a hint to 82
[the French Ministers^ but it would not do without 54 [Avieiicd].
Now the reverse will probably be done ; after which, arrange-
ments will take place in a few months, and I wish you was here,
not so much 205 {Secretary to Dr. Franklin'], as to the Commission.
However, I would like 205 to be 125 {Minister to the French
Court]. If you are 153 {Member of Congress]^ and if something
is said to you there, I wish you may be employed in the answer.
5 {French ships] without 9 {Spanish sldps] (and 4 {Dutch] is no-
thing), will not, I fear, give 40 {Charleston.] That is a cause of
delay, and the 7 {Spaniards] think much more of 8 {West Indies],
But I hope for 26 {Carolina] and 22 {Oeorgia] in 18 {September].
84 {the King of France] has answered about 47 {peace\ as you
and I, and every good American, may wish.

* The figures in the present letter arc part of a cipher concerted between
Hamilton and La Fayette. The interpretations, here placed between brackets^
are written over the figures, on the originals, in General Hamilton's hand-
writing. — Editor.

278 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25:

In the present situation of affairs, I tliouglit my presence
was more useful to the cause in this part of the world than it
could be on the other side of the Atlantic. I wish to have some
matters well arranged before I go, and then I hope to set sails
towards my friends in America.

Be pleased, my dear friend, to present my best respects to
your lady. My compliments wait on General Schuyler and all
the family. Adieu, dear Hamilton.

With the most sincere attachment,
I am, for ever.

Your devoted, affectionate servant.

La Fayette.
Colonel Hamilton.

MOKRIS TO HAMILTON.

Office of Finance, Philadelphia, May 2, 1782.

Sir:

Mr. Charles Stewart, late Commissary General of Issue, has
informed me you are disposed to quit the military hue for the
purpose of entering into civil life. He, at the same time, in-
duced me to believe, that you would accept the office of Ee-
ceiver of the Continental taxes for the State of New- York.
The intention of tliis letter is to offer you that appointment.
The duties of the office will appear, in a great degree, from the
publications made by me on this subject. In addition, it will be
necessary that you correspond frequently with me, and give
accurate accounts of whatever may be passing in your State,
which it may be necessary for this office to be acquainted with.
But this, and other things of that sort, will be more fully com-
municated after you have signified your acceptance of the office.
For the trouble of executing it, I shall allow you one-fourth per
cent, on the moneys you receive. The amount of the quota
called for from New- York, for the current year, is, as you know,
three hundred and seventy-three thousand, five hundred and

^T. 25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 279

ninety-eiglit dollars. I shall be glad to know your determina-
tion as soon as possible. I make to you no professions of my
confidence and esteem, because I hope tbey are unnecessary ;
but if tliey are, my wisli tliat you would accept the offer I make
is the strongest evidence I can give of them.
I pray you, Sir, to believe me.
Very respectfully.

Your most ob't and humble serv't,

Robert Morris.
Colonel Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Albany, May 18, 1782.

Sir:

I had this day the honor of receiving your letter of the
second instant, and am much obliged by the mark of your con-
fidence which it contains ; and to Colonel Stewart for his friendly
intentions upon the occasion.

My military situation has indeed become so negative that I
have no motive to continue in it ; and if my services could be of
importance to the public in a civil line, I should cheerfully
obey its command. But the plan which I have marked out to
myself is the profession of the law ; and I am now engaged in a
course of studies for that purpose. Time is so precious to me,
that I could not put myself in the way of any interruptions,
unless for an object of consequence to the public or to myself.
The present is not of this nature. Such are the circumstances
of this State, the benefit arising from the ofiice you propose
would not, during the war, exceed yearly one hundred pounds ;
for, unfortunately, I am persuaded it will not pay annually into
the Continental treasury above forty thousand pounds ; and on
a peace establishment this will not be for some time to come
much more than doubled. You will perceive, sir, that an en-
gagement of this kind does not correspond with my views, and
does not afford sufficient inducement to rehnquish them.

280 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

I am not the less sensible of the obliging motives which
dictated the offer; and it will be an additional one to that
respect and esteem with which I have the honor to be, very
truly sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

A. HAMILTO]Sr.

To the Hon. Eobert Morris, Esq.

MOEEIS TO HAMILTON.

Office of Finance, June 4, 1782.

Sir:

I have received your favor of the eighteenth of May. I am
much obliged by the friendly sentiments you express for me,
which, be assured, I shall retain a grateful sense of I see, with
you, that the office I had the pleasure of offering, will not be
equal to what your abilities will gain in the profession of the
law; but I did intend that the whole sum should have been paid,
although the whole quota of the taxes had not been collected
by the State : consequently the object is greater than you sup-
posed, and the business might probably be effected without more
attention than you could spare from your studies. If so, I
shoidd still be happy in your acceptance; and will leave the
matter open until I have an opportunity of hearing from you
upon the subject.

I pray you to beheve that I am.
With unfeigned esteem.

Your most obedient servant,

Egbert Morris.
Colonel Alexander Hamilton.

.f:T.25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 281

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Albany, June 17, 1782.

Sir:

The letter whicli you did me the honor to write me, of the
fourth instant, came to my hands too late to permit me to answer
it by the return of the same post. The explanation you give of
your intention in your late offer, makes it an object that will
fully compensate for the time it will deduct from my other occu-
pations. In accepting it, I have only one scruple, arising from a
doubt whether the service I can render, in the present state of
things, will be an equivalent for the compensation. The whole
system (if it may be so called) of taxation in this State is radi-
cally vicious, burthensome to the people, and unproductive to
Government. As the matter now stands, there seems to be little
for a Continental Eeceiver to do. The whole business appears
to be thrown into the hands of the County Treasurers ; nor do
I find there is any appropriation made of any part of the taxes
collected, to Continental purposes, or any provision to authorize
payment to the officer you appoint : this, however, must be
made. There is only one way in which I can imagine a pros-
pect of being materially useful ; that is, in seconding your appli-
cations to the State. In popular assemblies much may some-
times be brought about by personal discussions, by entering into
details, and combating objections as they rise. If it should, at
any time, be thought advisable by you to empower me to act in
this capacity, I shall be happy to do every thing that depends
on me to effectuate your views. I flatter myself, to you, sir, I
need not profess that I suggest this, not from a desire to augment
the importance of office, but to advance the public interest.

It is of primary moment to me, as soon as possible to take
my station in the law ; and on this consideration I am pressing to
qualify myself for admission the next term, which will be the
latter end of July. After this, if you think an interview with
me necessary, I will wait upon you in Philadelphia. In the
mean time, I shall be happy to receive your instructions, and

282 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Ex. 25.

shall direct mj attention more particularly to acquiring what-
ever information may be useful to my future operations. I have
read your puljlications at different times, but as I have not the
papers containing them in my possession, it will be necessary
that their contents should be comprised in your instructions. A
meeting of the Legislature is summoned early in the next month,
at which, if I previously receive your orders, it may be possible
to put matters in train.

I am truly indebted to you, sir, for the disposition you have
manifested upon this occasion ; and I shall only add an assur-
ance of my endeavors to justify your confidence, and prove to
you the sincerity of that respectful attachment with which

I am. Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A, Hamilton.
To Kobert Morris, Esq.

HAMILTON TO COMFORT SANDS.

Albany, June 22, 1782.

Sir:

Mr. Morris having lately offered me the appointment of Re-
ceiver of Continental taxes for this State, I wish to collect as
much and as accurate information as possible of the situation of
its naoney concerns. It will be, among other things, of great
importance that I should form an idea of the money brought
into the State and carried out of it ; and, with a view to this, I
take the liberty to request you will furnish me with an estimate
of what you have reason to think you will lay out in this State
in the course of a year, in the transactions of your contract busi-
ness. Mr. Duer has been so obliging as to promise me a sketch
of his disbursements in this quarter, and has informed me that you
are principally charged with what relates to the supplies of the
main army as well as West Point ; and will therefore be best
able to enlighten me on that head. The calculation may not

^T.25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 283

admit of absolute precision ; but if it comes near tlie trutli it will
answer. It would be useful tliat you could distinguish, as nearly
as possible, what part will be in specie, what in bank and in other
notes. As this is a matter that can be attended with no incon-
venience to any person, and will be conducive to the public
utility, I flatter myself you will flivor me with a speedy com-
munication.

I am, with esteem, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
To Comfort Sands, Esq.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

Paris, June 29, 1782.

My Dear Hamilton:

How it happens that I still am in Paris, I hardly can myself
conceive ; and what is more surprising, there are two frigates
going, neither of which will carry your friend to America.
Don't think, however, dear Hamilton, I am so much altered as
to be kept here by pleasure or private affairs. But in the
present circumstances, the American ministers have insisted
upon my remaining some time longer at this court; where,
they say, I may render myself more useful to our cause, than
I can possibly l^e in America, during an inactive campaign My
return, however, is only deferred for a few weeks; and after
some answers have arrived from England, which, I think, will
discover the views of, but not yet produce a reconciliation with.
Great Britain, I intend embarking for Philadelphia, where I
hope to land in the first days of September.

This stroke of Count de Grasse has greatly deranged my
schemes. I hoped for 40 [CharIesto7i] and perhaps for better than
that; but nothing until 6 {Jamaica] was done. -iO {Charleston]
I much expected. 9 [the Spaniards] don't like 54 [America].
We must previously have 40 [Charleston] ; and then, to put them

284 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 25.

in good humor, do sometliing about 8 [ West Indies] ; both of
which are not yet done ; and after that I hope. But at all events,
this campaign will be very inactive, I think. However, they are
going to take Gibraltar, and will gather so many means of doing
of it, that it is said they will succeed. After this trial, the
forces of the House of Bourbon will be distributed with a better
scale. 46 [N^sgotiatmis] is going on, and 47 [Peace'] expected ;
but not, I think, immediately. You have a good chance, and I
believe you have time, to be one of the 125 [Commissioners].
Jefferson does not come. Mr. Laurens, I am told, intends to
return home; and I cannot conceive (entre nam) what he is
about. Mr. Adams thinks his presence is wanting in Holland.
I thought I had better give you these intelligences.

Not a word from you since we parted in Virginia ; but I
am a good-natured man, and will not get tired to speak to a deaf
man. Adieu.

Most affectionately.

Your for ever devoted friend.
To Lieutenant-Colonel La Fayette.

Alexander Hamilton.

MOREIS TO HAMILTON".

Office of Finance, July 2, 1782.

Sir:

I yesterday received your letter of the seventeenth of June,
and am very happy to find you determined to accept the office I
had the pleasure of offering to you. I inclose the Commission,
Instructions, etc., together with a Bond for performance of the
duties, which I must request you to fill up, execute with some
sufficient security, and transmit.

The complaint you make of the system of taxation in New-
York, might, I believe, very justly be extended; for, though it
may be more defective in some than in others, it is, I fear, very
far from perfect in any. I had already heard that no part of the

^T. 25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 285

taxes were appropriated to Continental purposes; but I expect
that the Legislature will, when they meet, make such appropria-
tion, as well as lay new, and, I hope, productive taxes, for the
purposes of paying what may remain of their quota. It gives
me a singular pleasure to find, tliat you have yourself pointed
out one of the principal objects of your appointment. You will
find that it is specified in the inclosure of the fifteenth of April.
I do not conceive that any interview will be necessary, though I
shall always be happy to see you, when your leisure and con-
venience will admit. In the mean time, I must request you to
exert your talents in forwarding with your Legislature, the views
of Congress. Your former situation in the army, the present
situation of that very army, your connections in the State, your
perfect knowledge of men and measures, and the abilities which
heaven has blessed you with, will give you a fine opportunity to
forward the public service, by convincing the Legislature of the
necessity of copious supplies, and by convincing all who have
claims on the justice of Congress, that those claims exist only
by that hard necessity which arises from the negligence of the
States.

When to this, you shall superadd the conviction that what
remains of the war, being only a war of finance, solid arrange-
ments of finance must necessarily terminate favorably, not only
to our hopes, but even to our wishes; then, sir, the Govern-
ments will be disposed to lay, and the people to bear, those bur-
thens which are necessary ; and then the utility of your office,
and of the officer, will be as manifest to others as at present to
me.

With perfect respect.

Your most obedient

And humble servant,

Egbert Morris.

Alexander Hamilton, Esq.,

Keceiver of Taxes for New- York.

286 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

HAMILTON TO MOERIS.

Albany, July 13, 1782.

Sie:

I have this moment received your letter of the second inst.,
and as the post will set out on its return in half an hour, I have
little more than time to acknowledge the receipt of it.

I shall, to-morrow morning, commence a journey to Pough-
keepsie, where the Legislature are assembled; and I will en-
deavor, by every step in my powjer, to second your views ;
though, I am sorry to add, without very sanguine expectations.
I think it probable the Legislature will do something : but what-
ever momentary effort they may make, till the entire change of
their present system, very little will be done. To effect this,
mountains of prejudice and particular interest are to be levelled.
For my own part, considering the late serious misfortune of our
ally, the spirit of reformation, of wisdom, and of unanimity,
which seems to have succeeded to that of blunder, perverseness,
and dissension in the British Government, and the universal re-
luctance of these States to do what is right, I cannot help view-
ing our situation as critical : and I feel it the duty of every
citizen to exert his faculties to the utmost to support the mea-
sures, especially those solid arrangements of finance on which
our safety depends.

I will, by next post, forward you the Bond executed with
proper sureties.

It is not in the spirit of compliment, but of sincerity, I

assure you, that the ojoinion I entertain of him who presides in

the department, was not one of the smallest motives to my

acceptance of the office; nor will that esteem and confidence

which make me now sensibly feel the obliging expressions of

your letter, fail to have a great share in influencing my future

exertions.

I have the honor to be.

With perfect esteem and respect,

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
To Eobert Morris, Esq.

^T. 25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 287

HAMILTON TO GOV. CLINTON.

PouGHKEEPsiE, JuIy 16, 1782.
Sm:

I have tlie honor to inclose your Excellency the copy of a
warrant from the Honorable Eobert Morris, Esq., Superintendent
of the Finances of the United States ; by which you will perceive
that, agreeably to the Kesolution of Congress of the second of
November last, he has appointed me Eeceiver of the Continental
taxes for this State. I am therefore to request that the Legis-
lature will be pleased to vest in me the authority required by
that Resolution.

It is a part of my duty to explain to the Legislature, from
time to time, the views of the Superintendent of Finance, in
pursuance of the orders of Congress, that they may be the
better enabled to judge of the measures most proper to be
adopted for an effectual co-operation. For this purpose, I pray
your Excellency to impart my request, that I may have the
honor of a conference with a Committee of the two Houses, at
such time and place as they may find convenient.
I have the honor to be,

With perfect respect and esteem,
Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
To his Excellency Grovernor Clinton.

HAMILTON TO MORKIS.

PouGHKEEPSiE, May 22, 1782.

Sir:

Agreeably to my letter to you from Albany, I came to this
place, and had an interview with a Committee of the Legisla-
ture, in which I urged the several matters contained in jour in-

288 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 25.

structions. I stronglj^ represented tlie necessity of solid arrange-
ments of finance ; and, by way of argument, pointed out all the
defects of tlie present system. I found every man convinced
that something was wrong, but few that were willing to recognize
the mischief when defined, and consent to the proper remedy.
The quantum of taxes already imposed is so great as to make it
useless to impose any others to a considerable amount. A bill
has, however, passed both Houses, payable in specie, bank notes,
or your notes, for eighteen thousand pounds. It is at present
appropriated to your order ; but I doubt whether some subse-
quent arrangement will not take place for a different appropri-
ation. The Commander-in-Chief has applied for a quantity of
forage, which the Legislature is devising the means of furnish-
ing ; and I fear it will finish by diverting the eighteen thousand
pounds to that purpose. I have hitherto been able to prevent
this ; but as it is of indispensable importance to me to leave this
place immediately, to prepare for my examination, for which I
have pledged myself the ensuing term, which is at hand, it is
possible, after I have left it, contrary ideas will prevail. Efforts
have been made to introduce a species of negotiable certificates,
which I have strenuously opposed. It has not yet taken place ;
but I am not clear how the matter will terminate.

Should the bill for the eighteen thousand pounds go out in
its present form, I cannot hope that it will produce in the trea-
sury above half the sum; such are the vices of our present
mode of collection.

A bill has also passed the Assembly for collecting arrearages
of taxes, payable in specie, bank notes, your notes ; old Conti-
nental emissions at one hundred and twenty -eight for one, and a
species of certificates issued by the State for the purchase of
horses. This is now before the Senate. The arrearages are
very large.

Both Houses have unanimously passed a set of resolutions,
to be transmitted to Congress and the several States, proposing
a Convention of the States, to enlarge the powers of Congress
and vest them with funds. I think this a very eligible step,
though I doubt of the concurrence of the other States ; but I

^T. 25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 289

am certain, witliout it, tliey never will be brought to co-operate
in any reasonable or effectual plan. Urge reforms, or exertions,
and the answer constantly is, What avails it for one State to
make them without the concert of the others ? It is in vain to
expose the futility of this reasoning : it is founded in all those
passions which have the strongest influence on the human mind.
The Legislature have also appointed, at my instance, a com-
mittee to devise, in its recess, a more effectual system of taxa-
tion, and to communicate with me on this subject. A good deal
will depend on the success of this attempt. Convinced of the
absurdity of multiplying taxes in the present mode, where, in
effect, the payment is voluntary, and the money received ex-
hausted in the collection, I have labored chiefly to instil the
necessity of a change in the plan ; and, though not so rapidly as
the exigency of public affairs requires, truth seems to be making
some progress.

There is no other appropriation to the use of Congress than
of the eighteen thousand pounds.

I shall, as soon as possible, give you a full and just view of
the situation and temper of this State. This cannot be till after
my intended examination : that over, I shall lay myself out in
every way that can promote your views and the public good.

I am informed you have an appointment to make of a Com-
missioner of Accounts for this State. Permit me to suggest the
expediency of choosing a citizen of the State ; a man who, to
the qualifications requisite for the execution of the office, adds
an influence in its affairs. I need not particularize the reasons
of this suggestion. In my next I will also take the liberty to
mention some characters.

I omitted mentioning that the two Houses have also passed
a bill, authorizing Congress to adjust the quotas of the States on
equitable principles, agreeably to your recommendation.
I have the honor to be.

With sincere attachment and respect.
Sir, your most obedient servant,

A, Hamilton.
To the Hon. Eobert Morris, Esq.

VOL. I. 19

290 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

HAMILTON TO COLONEL HAY.

Albany, August 3, 1782.

Dear Sir :

Mr. Morris, some time since, in a circular letter to the States,
among other things, requested to have an account of all the
money, provisions, transportations, etc., furnished by this State
to the United States, since the eighteenth of March, seventeen
hundred and eighty.

I have been very happy to hear, that this business has been
intrusted to your hands : for I am sure, feeling its importance,
you will give it all the dispatch in your power.

I have written to the Governor on the subject ; but, lest other
occupations should delay his attention to it, I must request you
to inform me, precisely, what part of the matter has been intrust-
ed to your management, and what progress you have been able
to make.

I shall also thank you to send me the amount of any certifi-
cates, or paper money in any shape, which, through your office,
have passed into circulation, distinguishing the different spe-
cies.

You will do me a favor by letting me hear from you as soon
as possible.

I am, with sincere esteem.

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. I must still trouble you with an additional request,
which is, that you let me know, as exactly as possible, the gross
product of each supply -bill in your department in specie value,
and the amount of all expenses on each. This I want, with a
view to the subjects we have been speaking of.

A. H.

^T. 25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 291

HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.

Albany, August 3, 1782.

Sir:

I have lately received a letter from the Superintendent of
Finance, inclosing a copy of a circular letter from him to the
several States, dated twenty-fifth July, '81, in which he requests
information on the following important points.

" What supplies, of every kind, money, provisions, forage,
transportation, etc., have been furnished by this State to the
United States, since the eighteenth of March, 1780."

" The amount of the money in the treasury : the sums ex-
pected to be there ; the times they will probably be brought in ;
the appropriations."

" The amount of the different j^aper currencies in the State ;
the probable increase, or decrease, of each ; and the respective
rates of depreciation."

" The Acts passed since the eighteenth of March, 1780, for
raising taxes, furnishing supplies, etc. ; the manner they have
been executed ; the time necessary for them to operate ; the
consequences of their operation ; the policy of the State relative
to laying, assessing, levying, and collecting taxes."

In his letter, which is circular^ to the Receivers, he says the
answers he has received to these inquiries are few and short of
the object; and he therefore urges me to take the most speedy
and effectual means, in my power, to enable him to form a
proper judgment on such of the subjects referred to, as the ac-
tual state of things renders it important to know.

In compliance with this, I request the favor of your Excel-
lency to inform me, what steps have been taken on the several
heads of which the above is an abstract : and what progress has
been made in the business ; particularly with respect to the first
article. I shall also be much obliged to you to direct Mr. Holt
to furnish me, without delay, with the Acts mentioned in the
inclosed list.

Your Excellency must have been too sensible of the necessity

292 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

of enabling the Director of tlie Finances of the United States to
form a just judgment of the true state of our affairs, to have
omitted any measure ia your power to procure the fullest infor-
mation on the several matters submitted to you : and I am per-
suaded the business is in such a train that little will be left for
me to do.

I entreat you will do me the honor to let me hear from you
as soon as possible on the subject.

It would promote the public business, if you would be so good
as to direct Mr. Banker to supply me with such information as I
might call upon him for. He is very obliging, but without some
authority for the purpose, there is a delicacy in calling upon him.
I wrote at the same time to Mr. Holt, printer for the State, de-
siring him to forward me the copies of the Acts above mention-
ed ; and telling him, that if the Governor did not make satisfac-
tion, I would do it. These Acts were all those relative to
finance and supply, from March eighteenth, 1780, to this time.
With perfect respect,

I am your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
To His Excellency Governor Clinton.

HAMILTON TO THE COUNTY TREASURERS.

Albany, August 5th, 1782.

Sir:

It will be of great utility to the State, and essential to the ex-
ecution of my instructions from the Superintendent of Finance,
that I should be able to ascertain, as speedily as possible, the ex-
pense attending the collection of taxes within this State. In
order to this, I shall be much obliged to you to send me without
delay an account of what you have received in your county,
since the beginning of the year '80 to this time, as well for the

iET. 25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 293

taxes laid for county purposes, as for those imposed by the Legis-
lature ; and of the expenses of every kind attending the collec-
tion ; those of the supervisors, assessors, the allowance to the
collectors and to yourself.

When I assure you I want this information for an important
purpose, I doubt not you will forward it to me as speedily as
it can be prepared, and with as much accuracy as circumstances
will permit; by doing which, you will serve the public and
oblige, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton",

Receiver of C. S. for the State of N. Y.

HAMILTON" TO MORRIS.

August 13, 1782.

Dear Sir :

The speculation of evils, from the claims of Great Britain,
gives way to the pressure of inconveniences actually suffered ;
and we required the event which has lately happened, the recog-
nition of our independence by the Dutch, to give a new spring
to the public hopes and the public passions. This has had a
good effect. And if the Legislature can be brought to adopt a
wise plan for its finances, we may put the people in better
humor, and give a more regular and durable movement to the
machine. The people of this State, as far as my observation
goes, have as much firmness in their make, and as much submis-
siveness to Government, as those of any part of the Union.

It remains for me to give you an explicit opinion of what it
is jDracticable for this State to do. Even with a judicious plan
of taxation, I do not think the State can afford, or the people
will bear to pay, more than seventy or eighty thousand pounds
a year. In its entire and flourishing state, according to my
mode of calculating, it could not have exceeded two hundred
and thirty or forty thousand pounds ; and, reduced as it is, with

294 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 25.

the wlieels of circulation so exceedingly clogged for want of com-
merce and a sufiicient medium, more than I have said cannot be
expected. Passed experience will not authorize a more flatter-
ing conclusion.

Out of this is to be deducted the expense of the interior
administration of Government, and the money necessary for
the levies of men. The first amounts to about twelve thou-
sand pounds, as you will perceive by the inclosed statement ;
but I suppose the Legislature would choose to retain fifteen
thousand pounds. The money hitherto yearly expended in
recruits, has amounted to between twenty and thirty thousand
pounds; but, on a proper plan, ten thousand pounds might
sufl&ce. There would then remain forty thousand pounds for
your department.

But this is on the supposition of a change of system ; for,
with the present, I doubt there being paid into the Continental
treasury one-third the sum.

I am endeavoring to collect materials for greater certainty
upon this subject; but the business of supplies has been so
diversified, lodged in such a variety of independent hands, and
so carelessly transacted, that it is hardly possible to get any
tolerable idea of the gross and net product. With the help
of these materials I shall strive to convince the committee, Avhen
they meet, that a change of measures is essential. If they enter
cordially into right views, we may succeed : but I confess I fear
more than I hope.

I have taken every step in my power to procure the infor-
mation you have desired in your letter of July '81 ; the most
material part of it, an account of the supplies furnished since
March seventeen hundred and eighty, has been committed to
Colonel Hay. I have written to him, in pressing terms, to ac-
celerate the preparation.

You will perceive, sir, I have neither flattered the State, nor
encouraged high expectations. I thought it my duty to exhibit
things as they are, not as they ought to be. I shall be sorry if
it give an ill opinion of the State, for want of equal candor in
the representation of others ; for, however disagreeable the reflec-

^T.25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 295

tion, I have too mucla reason to believe, tliat the true picture of
other States would be, in proportion to their circumstances,
equally unpromising. All my inquiries, and all that appears,
induces this opinion. I intend this letter in confidence to your-
self, and therefore I endorse it private.

Before I conclude, I will say a word on a point that possibly
you would wish to be informed about. The contract up this
way is executed generously to the satisfaction of officers and
soldiers ; which is the more meritorious in the contractor, as, in
all probability, it will be to him a losing undertaking.
I have the honor to be.

With sentiments of unfeigned respect,
Sir, your most ob't and humble serv't,

A. Hamilton".
To the Hon. Eobert Morris, Esq.

GOVEENOR CLINTON TO HAMILTON.

PouGHKEEPsiE, August 13, 1782.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the third instant. I am not
authorized to direct the printer to deliver any of the laws, ex-
cept a certain number of sets which are by law directed for par-
ticular purposes. I have, however, mentioned your desire to
the gentlemen of the committee appointed to superintend the
printing and distribution of them, and requested them to furnish
you with a set, which I doubt not will be complied with.

Some short time before the appointment of a Superintendent
of Finance, I transmitted to Congress the most perfect informa-
tion I was able to collect, of many of the matters mentioned in
your letter ; and it was my intention, from time to time, to have
continued these communications to Mr. Morris ; but our laws
remaining so long unprinted, the dispersed situation of the dif-
ferent public officers, and the difficulty, from this circumstance,
as well as the want of authority, in some instances, to command

296 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 25.

the necessary returns, rendered it a business, if not impracticable,
requiring more time and attention than the indispensable duties
of my office afforded leisure to bestow. I shall, however, be happy
to give you every aid in my power to facilitate it. The laws,
with the returns which have lately been made by the different
public ofl&cers, and may be found on the files of the Legislature,
and in the treasurer's of&ce, will answer most of the questions
stated. The answers to the others, appear to me to depend,
in some measure, on matter of opinion ; and, as the operation
of our laws is often obstructed, and the intended consequences
defeated, by unforeseen events arising from our embarrassed
situation, they cannot be given with any great degree of pre-
cision.

You will readily perceive, sir, that the treasurer, from the
nature of his ofiice, is not, except in cases provided for by law,
subject to my control. I am persuaded, however, that he, as well
as the clerks of the Legislature, will readily give you every infor-
mation and assistance consistent with the duties of their respec-
tive ofG-ces.

I am, with great respect and esteem,

Sir, your most obedient servant,

Geo. Clinton,
To Col. Alexander Hamilton,

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

New- Windsor, August 20, 1782.

Dear Sir:

I have some Bills of Exchange, drawn by Mr, Morris on
John Swanwick, which I am authorized to exchange with the
receivers of the Continental Taxes in any of the States eastward of
Pennsylvania, Mr, Morris informed me, that he had advised
the Eeceivers of this measure, and directed their taking up the
bills whenever they were in cash. By taxes or by loan, I ex-
pect this State will shortly furnish you with money, I am

^T. 25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 29*7

indebted to tlie subjects of it by many special engagements,
wliicli I am anxious to fulfil. You will therefore greatly oblige
me, by giving me, from time to time, information of the money
you shall receive ; and in order to secure the earliest sujoply, I
would lodge, if you please, some of the bills in your hands.
Bank notes or Mr. Morris's notes will be useful to me, though
not so beneficial as cash.

I am, dear Sir,

With respect and esteem, •
Your most obedient servant,

Tim. Pickering,

Q. M. G.

Col. Alex. Hamilton,

HAMILTON" TO MOERIS.

Albany, August 25, 1782.

Sir:

This letter serves only to transmit the two last papers. I
wish the measures I have taken to satisfy you on the points you
desire to be informed of, had been attended with so much suc-
cess as to enable me now to transmit the result. But I find a
singular confusion in the accounts kept by the public officers
from whom I must necessarily derive my information, and a
singular dilatoriness in complying with my application, partly
from indolence, and partly from jealousy of the office. I hope,
by the next post, to transmit you information on some par-
ticulars.

I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
To Kobert Morris, Esq.

298 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 25.

HAMILTON TO MEADE.

Albany, August 27, 1782.

I thank you, my dear Meade, for your letter of the first of
this month, which you will perceive has travelled much faster
than has been usual with our letters. Our correspondence,
hitherto, has been unfortunate; nor, in fact, can either of us
compliment himself on his punctuality; but you were right in
concluding, that however indolence, or accident, may interrupt
our intercourse, nothing will interrupt our friendship. Mine for
you is built on the solid basis of a full conviction that you de-
serve it, and that it is reciprocal ; and it is the more firmly fixed
because you have few competitors. Experience is a continual
comment on the worthlessness of the human race ; and the few
exceptions we find have the greater right to be valued in pro-
portion as they are rare. I know few men estimable, fewer
amiable ; and when I meet with one of the last description, it is
not in my power to withhold my affection.

As to myself, I shall sit down in New- York when it opens ;
and this period, we are told, approaches. No man looks forward
to a peace with more pleasure than I do ; though no man would
sacrifice less to it than myself, if I were not convinced the people
sigh for peace.

I have been studying the law for some months, and have
lately been licensed as an attorney. I wish to prepare myself by
October for examination as a counsellor ; but some public avo-
cation may possibly prevent me.

I had almost forgotten to tell you, that I have been pretty
unanimously elected, by the Legislature of this State, a member
of Congress, to begin to serve in November. I do not hope to
reform the State, although I shall endeavor to do all the good I

God bless you.

A. Hamilton.
To Colonel Meade.

^T.25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 299

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Office of Finance, August 28, 1782.

Sir: ^

I have duly received your several favors of the twenty-second
and twenty-seventh of July, and tenth and thirteenth of August.
My not answering them is owing to causes which you will easily
conceive, because you will easily conceive the multiplicity of ob-
jects to which I must turn my attention. I am very sorry to
learn that you can no longer continue in the office of Receiver.
It would have given me great pleasure that you should have
done so, because I am sure that you would have rendered very
signal service to the public cause : this you will now do in an-
other line, more important, as it is more extensive : and the just-
ness of your sentiments on public affairs, induces my warm wish,
that you may find a place in Congress so agreeable as that you
may be induced to continue in it.

I should readily have complied with your wish, as to a suc-
cessor, but there are many reasons which have called my atten-
tion to, and fixed my choice upon. Doctor Tillotson. We will
converse on this subject when we meet. I am, however, very
far from being unmindful of your recommendations ; and al-
though I cannot name the citizen of any State to settle the ac-
counts of that particular State, consistently with the general line
of conduct I have laid down for myself, yet I shall do, in other
respects, what is in my power. I have not hitherto been able to
fix on a proper Commissioner for the State of New- York. The
office is vacant for New Hampshire and Rhode Island. I inclose
you a copy of the Ordinance on the subject, that you may know
the powers, duties, and emoluments ; and I have to request that
you offer these places to Colonel Malcolm and Mr. Lawrence.
You will make the first offer, including the choice, as your own
judgment may direct. Should the gentlemen, or either of them,
accept, you will be so kind as to give me early notice. I will
then immediately recommend them to the States respectively ;

300 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 25.

and ou receiving their approbation, the proper instructions, etc.,
can be expedited.

I am sorry to learn tliat any letter of mine should have given
offence ; but I conclude that this effect must follow from many
parts of my writings and conduct ; because the steady pursuit
of what appears to be the true line of duty, will necessarily
cross the various oblique views of interest and opinion. To of-
fend is sometimes a fault, always a misfortune. The letter in
question is, I suppose, under the date of the eleventh of Decem-
ber, of which I inclose you a copy. Let me, at the same time,
assure you, that in all your excellent letter of the thirteenth in-
stant, I most esteem the clause now in question ; because it con-
tains that useful information which is least common. I will
make no apologies for the letter to any one, because apologies
are rarely useful ; and where the intention has been good, they
are, to candid minds, unnecessary. Possessed of the facts, you
can guard against misrepresentation ; and I have ever found that
to be the most hostile weapon which either my personal or
political enemies have been able to wield against me.

I have not, even yet, seen the Eesolutions of your Legislature
relative to an extension of the powers of Congress. I had
supposed the same reason for them which you have expressed.
Indeed, power is generally such a darling object with weak
minds, that they must feel extreme reluctance to bid it farewell ;
neither do I believe that any thing will induce a general consent
to part with it, but a perfect sense of absolute necessity. This
may arise from two sources ; the one of reason, and the other of
feeling: the former more safe and more u.ncertain ; the latter
always severe and often dangerous. It is, my dear sir, in cir-
cumstances like this, that a patriot mind, seeking the great good
of the whole, on enlightened principles, can best be distinguished
from those vulgar souls whose narrow optics can see but the
little circle of selfish concerns. Unhappily, such souls are but
too common, and but too often fill the seats of dignity and
authority. A firm, wise, manly system of federal government is
what I once wished, what I now hope, what I dare not expect,
but what I will not despair of

7ET.25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 301

Your description of the mode of collecting taxes, contains
an epitome of tlie follies wliicli prevail from one end of the con-
tinent to the other. There is no end to the absurdity of human
nature. Mankind seem to delight in contrast and paradox ; for
surely nothing else could sanctify (during a contest on the
precise point of being taxed by our own consent) the arbitrary
policy which, on this subject, almost universally prevails. God
grant you success in your views to amend it. Your ideas on the
subject are perfectly correspondent to my own. As to your
doubt on the mode of collecting it, I would wish to obviate it
by the observation, that the farther off we can remove the
appointment of Collectors from popular influence, the more
effectual will be their operations ; and the more they conform
to the views of Congress, the more effectually will they enable
that body to provide for^ general defence. In political life, the
creature will generally pay some deference to both. The having
a double set of ofiicers is indeed an evil ; but a good thing is
not always to be rejected because of that necessary portion of
evil which, in the course of things, must be attached to it.
Neither is this a necessary evil ; for, with a proper Federal
Government, Army, Navy, and Eevenue, the Civil Adminis-
tration might well be provided for by a Stamp Act, Eoads by
Turnpikes, and Navigations by Tolls.

The account you give of the State is by no means flattering :
and the more true it appears, the more concern it gives me.
The loan, I hope, will be completed ; and I wish the loliole
amount of the tax may be collected. The Forage plan I have
disagreed to ; and inclose, for your information, the copy of my
letter, on that subject, to the Quartermaster General. I believe
your State is exhausted : but perhaps even you consider it as being
more so than it is. The Certificates, which now form a useless
load, will (if the United States adopt, and the several States
agree to, a plan now before Congress) become valuable property.
This will afford great relief. The scarcity of money, also, may
be immediately relieved, if the love of popular favor would
so far give way to the love of public good, as to enforce plentiful
taxation. The necessity of having money will always produce

302 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

money. The desire of having it, produces, you see, so much as
is necessary to gratify the desire of enjoying foreign luxuries.
Turn the stream, which now flows in the channels of Commerce,
to those of Revenue, and the business is completed. Unfor-
tunately for us, this is an operation which requires fortitude,
perseverance, virtue ; and which cannot be effected by the weak
or wicked minds who have only partial, private, or interested
views.

When I consider the exertions which the country you possess
has already made, under striking disadvantages, and with aston-
ishing prodigality of national wealth, by pernicious modes of
applying it ; I j)ersuade myself, that regular, consistent efforts,
would produce much more than you suppose.

*******

I am, with perfect respect,
Your most obedient

And humble servant,

Robert Morris.
To Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

HAMILTON TO ROBERT MORRIS.

Albany, August 31, 1782.

Sir:

I send you herewith all the acts of the Legislature of this
State since the Government has been organized ; on the margin
of which I have numbered all the acts relative to the matters
you mention in your letter of July, '81, to the States agreeable to
the within list. I inclose you the papers of the last week.

The indolence of some, and the repugnancy of others, make
every trifle lag so much in the execution, that I am not able at
this time to give you any further information. I wish to hear

^T. 25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 303

from you on tlie subject of my former letters previous to tlie
meeting of the Committee — the 15th of the ensuing month.
I have the honor to be very truly,

Sir, your most obedient servant,

A. H.
To the Honorable Superintendent of Finance.

GOVERNOR CLINTON TO HAMILTON.

PouGHKEEPsiE, September 2, 1782.

Sir:

I am favored with your letter of the 25th instant, previous
to which, with a view of accelerating the collection of the last
Tax, I had prepared, and have since dispatched a circular letter
to the several County Treasurers, urging them and the other
officers concerned, to a prompt execution of their duty, or that
in case of neglect the penalty of the law will without favor be
put into execution.

I have not received information from all the Counties, but in
this and some others, I know the business is in good train, and
am led to hope that the taxes will be speedily collected and
paid in.

My agents employed to procure moneys on loan had some
time since transmitted me a small sum, but not sufficient to
answer the orders of the Legislature in favor of the Delegates
and some other public matters. As the channel through which
this money is procured is subject to interruption and disappoint-
ment, I cannot at present inform you of any sum to be depended
on, but I expect soon to see or hear from the gentlemen, and
you may rest assured of being informed of the result without

delay.

I am, with great respect and esteem.

Sir, your most obedient servant,

Geo. Clinton.

Col. Hamilton.

304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 25.

HAMILTON TO THE COUNTY TREASUKERS.

Albany, September 7, 1782.

Sir:

The fifteentli of tliis montli is the period fixed for the pay-
ment of the tax imposed at the last meeting of the Legislature
for the use of the United States. The public exigencies, and
the reputation of the State, require that every exertion should
be made to collect this tax with punctuality and dispatch ; and
it is, therefore, my duty to urge you, that you employ the
powers vested in you, and all your personal influence, to induce
the collectors to expedite the collection with all the zeal and
vigor in their power. While the other States are all doing
something, as a citizen of this, I shall feel a sensible mortifica-
tion in being obliged to continue publishing to the others, that
this State pays nothing in support of the war, as I have been
under the necessity of doing the last two months. Besides this,
and other still more weighty considerations, a regard to the
subjects of the State itself demands every exertion in our power.
They have parted with their property on the public faith, and it
is impossible for the public to fulfil its engagements to individ-
uals, unless it is enabled to do it by the equal and just contri-
butions of the community at large.

I am. Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Albany, September 7, 1782.

Sir:

I have had the inclosed ready for some time ; but in hopes
of receiving the returns of the certificates mentioned in memo-
randum B, I delayed sending the present sketch. Having even
received no answers from some of the parties, who live at a

iET.25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 305

distance from me, I suspect they have done their business in so
disorderly a manner (to say nothing worse of it) that they are at
a loss how to render the accounts ; and I have, therefore, con-
cluded not to detain any longer what I have procured.

I do not take the step mentioned in memorandum A, be-
cause I doubted its propriety. It might raise expectations about
the old money, which, possibly, it may not enter into your plans
to raise : and, besides this, by knowing what has been called in,
in each State (which from the sketch I send you, will appear as
to this), you can determine the balance of emissions remaining
out, except what may have worn out and been accidentally des-
troyed. If you desire this step to be taken, I will obey your
commands.

I have said nothing of the rates of depreciation, because I
imagine your letter, written in July, '80, had reference to the
rates at which the money was then actually circulating, and the
circulation has now totally ceased. The laws I sent you by the
last post, will inform you of the rates fixed at different periods
by the Legislature : forty, seventy-five, and lastly, one hundred
and twenty-eight. I am obliged to infer there is a studied back-
wardness in the officers of the State, who ought to give me the
information you require respecting the supplies of different kinds
which havo' been furnished to the use of the United States.
Indeed, I find, on inquiry, that their joint information will not
be so full as to satisfy your intentions ; and that this cannot be
done till you have appointed a commissioner of accounts, autho-
rized to enter into all the details, aided by some legislative
arrangement which may be obtained the next session.
I have the honor to be.

With great respect and esteem,

Sir, your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

To Kobert Morris, Esq.

VOL. I. 20

306 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

HAMILTON TO TIMOTHY PICKERING.

Albany, September 7, 1782.

Dear Sir:

I this day received your letter of the 20tli August. Mr.
Morris has advised me of the bills you describe, and directed my
purchasing them, together with his notes, and the bank notes ;
with what money shall come into my hands on public account.
They are now beginning to collect the tax imposed for the use
of the United States, though I can as yet form no judgment with
what success or expedition. I shall with pleasure give you the
information you ask, but I would rather wish to be excused from
anticipation by previous deposits in my hands, as that will in
some measure pledge me to give a preference to the bills de-
posited, and may hereafter expose me to a charge of partiality.
There have been several applications to me for a similar antici-
pation which I have avoided ; reserving to myself the power of
paying the bills as they shall be presented, and in proportion to
the nearness or remoteness of the periods of payments.

You may, however, depend that I shall be happy to assist

your department, and will keep in view your present request.

I hope, towards the latter end of the month, I shall receive

something considerable on the late tax.

I am, dear Sir, very truly.

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
To Timothy Pickering,

D. Q. Gen.

HAMILTON TO ROBERT MORRIS.

Albany, Sept. 14, 1782.

Sir:

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 29th of August, the contents of which shall be executed.

I have just received by the post accounts of the specific sup-

jet.25.] correspondence. 307

plies farnislied by the State ; copies of wliicli I shall prepare to
be transmitted to you by the next post, as I am to return the
originals, which are for the inspection of the Legislature. I
hope to add to these accounts of the moneys supplied,

I have written to you a number of letters since my journey
to Poughkeepsie, of which, as they contain some things of a
confidential nature, I am not without anxiety to learn the safe
arrival,

I should also have been happy to have received your instruc-
tions against the meeting of the Committee, which is to take
place to-morrow. As they will have other business, if I hear
from you by the next post, I shall not be too late. I am at a
loss to know whether I ought to press the establishment of per-
manent funds or not ; though unless I receive your instructions,
following my own apprehensions of what are probably your
views, I shall dwell on this article.

I have the honor to be.

With perfect respect.

Sir, your most ob't serv't,

A. HAMILTOiSr.

I inclose you a copy of a letter of the Grovernor, of the 2d
inst., from which you will see his hopes. Mine are not so good.
In this vicinity, always delinquent, little is doing.

HAMILTON TO ROBERT MORRIS.

Albany, Sept. 21, 1782.

Sir:

The hurry in which I wrote to you by the last post, pre-
vented my examining particularly the papers which I informed
you I had received. On a more careful inspection of them, I
found them not so complete as I had hoped. There is a general
state of specific supplies ; but the returns referred to in that for
the particulars, were by some mistake omitted. I have written
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

for them, but thej have not yet arrived ; when they do, I shall
lose no time in forwarding them.

I observe there is nothing respecting transportation; and
there is a part of the supplies for the period before Col. Hay
came into office, which is estimated on a scale of proportion— too
vague a method to be satisfactory. I have urged him to send
me an account of the transportation, and to collect, as speedily
as possible, official returns of the supplies above mentioned.

There is a practice obtaining which appears to me to contra-
vene your views. The Contractors, I am informed, have gotten
into a method of carrying your bills immediately to the Collectors
and drawing the specie out of their hands, by which means the
paper never goes into circulation at all ; but passes, so to speak,
immediately out of one hand of the public into the other. The
people, therefore, can never be familiarized to the paper, nor can
it ever obtain a general currency.

If the specie were to come into the Eeceivers' hands, and the
Contractors were left under a necessity of exerting their influence
to induce the inhabitants to take your notes, to be afterwards
redeemed by the Eeceivers agreeably to your plan, this would
gradually accustom the people to place confidence in the notes ;
and though the circulation at first should be momentary, it might
come to be more permanent.

I am in doubt, whether on the mere speculation of an evil,
without your instructions, I ought to take any step to prevent
this practice. For, should I forbid the exchange, it might pos-
sibly cause a suspicion that there was a preference of the paper
to the specie, which might injure its credit.

I have thought of a method to prevent, without forbidding it
in direct terms. This was to require each collector to return the
names of the persons from whom he received taxes, and in
diffisrent columns, specify the kind of money, whether specie,
your notes, or bank notes, in which the tax was paid ; giving
the inhabitants receipts accordingly ; and paying in money in
the same species in which it was received. This would cover
the object.

I have tried to prevail upon the county treasurer of this

JE.T.25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 309

place, to instruct tlie collectors accordingly ; but the great aim
of all these people is to avoid trouble ; and he affected to con-
sider the matter as a Herculean labor. Nor will it be done
without a legislative injunction.

A method of this kind would tend much to check fraud in
the collectors ; and would have many good consequences.

I thought it my duty, at any rate, to apprise you of the
practice, that, if my apprehensions are right, it may not be con-
tinued without control. I have reason to believe it is very ex-
tensive— by no means confined to this State.

Permit me to make one more observation. Your notes,
though in credit with the merchants by way of remittance, do
not enter far into ordinary circulation, and this principally on
account of their size ; which even makes them inconvenient for
paying taxes. The taxes of very few amount to twenty dollars
a single tax ; and though the farmers might combine to sell their
produce for the notes, to pay the taxes jointly ; yet this is not
always convenient, and will seldom be practised. If the notes
were, in considerable part, of five, eight, or ten dollars, their cir-
culation would be far more general ; the merchants would, even
in their retail operations, give specie in exchange for balances ;
which few of them care to do, or can do, with the larger notes :
though they are willing to take them for their goods.

A. Hamilton,

HAMILTON TO MORRIS,

September 28, 1782.

Sir:

I have been honored this week with your letters of the
twenty-eighth of August, and the sixth, twelfth, and seventeenth
instant, with their inclosures.

It gives me the most real pleasure to find that my past com-
munications have met with your approbation ; and I feel a par-
ticular satisfaction in the friendly confid(3nce which your letters
manifest.

310 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 25.

I am persuaded that substantial reasons have determined
your choice in a particular instance to Doctor Tillotson ; and I
am flattered by the attention you have obligingly paid to my
recommendations of Colonel Malcolm and Mr. Lawrence. Those
gentlemen are now here. They make you the warmest acknow-
ledgments for your offer, but decline leaving the State ; which,
indeed, is not compatible with the present prospects of either of
them.

I am glad to have had an opportunity of perusing your letter
to this State, at which so much exception has been taken ; be-
cause it has confirmed me in what I presumed, that there has
been much unjustifiable ill-humor upon the occasion. I will
make use of the knowledge I have to combat misrepresentation.

Yours of the twenty-ninth of July to Congress, is full of
principles and arguments as luminous as they are conclusive. It
is to be lamented that they have not had more weight than we
are to infer from the momentary expedient adopted by the reso-
lutions of the fourth and tenth ; which will, alone, not be satis-
factory to the public creditors; and I fear will only tend to
embarrass your present operations, without answering the end in
view. The more I see, the more I find reason for those who
love this country to weep over its blindness.

The committee on the subject of taxation are met. Some
have their plans ; and they must protect their own children,
however misshapen : others have none ; but are determined to
find fault with all. I expect little, but I shall promote any thing,
though imperfect, that will mend our situation.

With sentiments of

The greatest respect and esteem,
I have the honor to be. Sir,
Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. The public creditors in this quarter, have had a meet-
ing, and appointed a committee to devise measures. The com-
mittee will report petitions to Congress and the Legislature ; and
an address to the public creditors in other parts of the State, to

^T.25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 311

appoint persons to meet in convention, to unite in some common
measure. I believe they will also propose a general convention
of all the creditors in the different States,

A. H.
To the Hon. Eobert Morris, Esq.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Albany, Oct. 5, 1782.

Sir:

In my last I informed you, that the committee, appointed by
the Legislature on the subject of taxation, were together. In
spite of my efforts, they have parted without doing any thing
decisive. They have, indeed, agreed upon several matters, and
those of importance ; but they have not reduced them to the
form of a report ; which, in fact, leaves every thing afloat, to be
governed by the impressions of the moment, when the Legisla-
ture meets.

The points agreed upon, are these : That there shall be an
actual valuation of land, and a tax of so much in the pound.

The great diversity in the qualities of land would not suffer
them to listen to an estimated valuation, or to a tax by the
quantity, agreeably to the idea in your late report to Congress.
That there shall be also a tariff of all personal property, to be
also taxed at so much in the pound ; that there shall be a specific
tax on carriages, clocks, watches, and other similar articles of
luxury ; that money, at usury, shall be taxed at a fixed rate in
the pound, excluding that which is loaned to the public ; that
houses, in all towns, shall be taxed at a certain proportion of the
annual rent ; that there shall be a poll tax on all single men
from fifteen upwards ; and that the collection of the taxes should
be advertised to the lowest bidder, at a fixed rate per cent.,
bearing all subordinate expenses.

Among other things which were rejected, I pressed hard for

312 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

an excise on distilled liquors ; but all that could be carried on
this article was a license on taverns.

The committee were pretty generally of opinion, that the
system of funding for payment of old debts, and for procuring
further credit, was wise and indispensable ; but a majority
thought it Avould be unwise in one State to contribute in this
way alone.

Nothing was decided on the quantum of taxes which the
State was able to pay : those who went furthest, did not exceed
seventy thousand pounds, of which fifty for the use of the
United States.

I send you my cash account, which is for what has been

received in this county. We have not heard from the others.

I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton,
To the Hon. Robert Morris, Esq.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Office of Finance, October 5, 1782.

Sir:

I have now before me your letters of the fourteenth and
twenty -first of last month. I am sorry to find that you are less
sanguine in your pecuniary expectations than the Governor
appears to be ; for I have always found that the worst forebod-
ings on this subject are the truest. You will find, at the bottom
of this letter, a list of all those which I have hitherto received
from you. I think they have all been already acknowledged ;
but lest they should not, you will see in one moment, by the list,
whether any have miscarried.

I am not surprised to find that the contractors apply with
their paper, in the first instance, to the Receivers and Collectors.
This I expected, because much of that paper is not fit for other
purposes. Some of it, however, which is payable to the bearer,

7ET.25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 313

is calculated for circulation ; whicli you observe is not so general
as otherwise it might have been, by reason of the largeness of
the sums expressed in the notes. Mr. Duer's letters contain the
same sentiment.

In issuing this paper, one principal view was to facilitate the
payment of taxes by obviating the too general (though unjust)
complaint of the want of a circulating medium. In substituting
paper to specie, the first obstacle to be encountered, was the total
difiidence which had arisen from the late profusion of it. Had
a considerable quantity been thrown into the hands of that class
of the people, whose ideas on the subject of money, are more the
offspring of habit than of reason, it must have depreciated. That
this apprehension was just, is clear from this fact, that the paper
I first issued, and the Bank paper which came out after it, did
dej^reciate from ten to fifteen per cent, in the Eastern States, not-
withstanding all the precautions which were used. If I had not
taken immediate measures to create a demand for it on the spot,
and to stop issues to that quarter, its credit would have been
totally lost for a time, and not easily restored. Besides that, the
quantities which were pouring in from thence would have done
mischief here. Confidence is a plant of very slow growth ; and
our political situation is not too favorable to it. I am, therefore,
very unwilling to hazard the germ of a credit, which will, in its
greater maturity, become very useful. If my notes circulate
only among mercantile people, I do not regret it, but rather wish
that the circulation may, for the present, be confined to them,
and to the wealthier members of other professions. It is nothing
but the greater convenience, which will induce people to prefer
any kind of paper to the precious metals ; and this convenience
is principally felt in large sums. Whenever the shopkeepers, in
general, discover that my paper will answer as a remittance to
the principal ports, and will be readily exchanged by the Ee-
ceivers, they will as readily exchange it for other people. When
the j^eople, in general, find that the shopkeepers receive it freely,
they will begin to look after it, and not before. For you must
know, that whatever fine plausible speeches may be made on
this subject, the farmers will not give full credit to money,

314 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

merely because it will pay taxes: for that is an object they are
not very violently devoted to. But that money which goes
freely at the store and the tavern, will be sought after as greedily
as those things which the store and the tavern contain. Still,
however, your objection remains good; that the traf&ckings in
which the greater part of the community engage, do not require
sums so large as twenty dollars. This I shall readily acknow-
ledge : but you will observe there is infinitely less danger that
large notes, which go only through the hands of intelligent
people, will be counterfeited than small ones, which come to
the possession of illiterate men. When public credit is firmly
established, the little shocks it receives from the counterfeiters
of paper money, do not lead to material consequences ; but, in
the present ticklish state of things, there is just ground of appre-
hension. Besides this, the value of paper will depend much
upon the interchanges of it for specie : and these will not take
place when there is a circulation of small paper. Lastly, I have
to observe, that until more reliance can be placed on the
revenues required, I dare not issue any very considerable
amount of this paper, lest I should be run upon for more than
I could answer : and as the circulation of what I dare issue, by
increasing the general mass, enables people (so far as it goes)
more easily to get hold of other money, it consequently pro-
duces, in its degree, that object of facilitating taxation which I

had in view.

I am. Sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

Egbert Morris.
Alexander Hamilton, Esq.,

Eeceiver for New- York.

HAMILTON TO DE NOAILLES.

1782.

Esteem for your talents and acquirements is a sentiment
which, from my earliest acquaintance with you, my dear Vis-
count, I have shared in common with all those who have the

jet.25.] correspondence. 315

happiness of knowing you ; but a better knowledge of your
character has given it, in my eyes, a more intrinsic merit, and
has attached me to you by a friendship founded upon qualities
as rare as they are estimable. Averse as I am to professions, I
cannot forbear indulging this declaration, to express to you the
pleasure I felt at receiving (after an inexplicable delay) the letter
you were so obliging as to write me before your departure from
Boston. It was of that kind which is always produced by those
attentions of friends we value; which, not being invited by cir-
cumstances, nor necessitated by the forms of society, bespeak
the warmth of the heart. At least my partiality for you makes
me fond of viewing it in this light, and I cherish the opinion.

I was chagrined to find that you left us with an intention not
to return. Though I should be happy if, by a removal of the
war, this country should cease to be a proper theatre for your
exertions, yet, if it continues to be so, I hope you will find
sufficient motives to engage you to change your resolution.
Wherever you are, you will be useful and distinguished; but
the ardent desire I have of meeting you again, makes me wish
America may be your destination. I would willingly do it in
France, as you invite me to do; but the prospect of this is
remote. I must make a more solid establishment here before I
can conveniently go abroad. There is no country I have a
greater curiosity to see, or which I am persuaded would be so
interesting to me as yours. I should be happy to renew and
improve the valuable acquaintances from thence, which this war
has given me an opportunity of making ; and, though I could
not flatter myself with deriving any advantage from it, I am
persuaded it is there I should meet with the greatest number of
those you describe, who, etc. : but considerations of primary
importance will oblige me to submit to the mortification of de-
ferring my visit.

In the mean time I should be too much the gainer by com-
munication with you, not gladly to embrace the offer you so
politely make for writing to each other.

The period, since you left us, has been too barren of events
to enable me to impart any thing worth attention. The enemy

316 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 25.

continue in possession of Charleston and Savannah, and leave
us masters of the rest of the country. General Greene has de-
tached Wayne to Georgia; but I believe his views do not extend
beyond the mere possession of the country. It is said the As-
semblies of the two invaded States are about meeting, to restore
the administration of government. This will be a step to
strengthening the hands of General Greene, and counteracting
the future intrigues of the enemy. Many are sanguine in be-
lieving that all the southern posts will be evacuated, and that a
fleet of transports is actually gone to bring the garrisons away.
For my part, I have doubts upon the subject. My politics are,
that while the present ministry can maintain their seats, and
procure supplies, they will prosecute the war on the mere chance
of events ; and that while this is the plan, they will not evacuate
posts so essential as points of departure ; from whence, on any
favorable turn of affairs, to renew their attack on our most
vulnerable side. Nor will they relinquish objects that would be
so useful to them, should the worst happen in a final negotia-
tion. Clinton, it is said, is cutting a canal across New- York
island, through the low grounds, about a mile and a half from
the city. This will be an additional obstacle ; but if we have,
otherwise, the necessary means to operate, it will not be an in-
surmountable one. I do not hear that he is constructing any
other new works of consequence. To you, who are so thoroughly
acquainted with the military posture of things in this country, I
need not say that the activity of the next campaign must abso-
lutely depend on effectual succors from France. I am convinced
we shall have a powerful advocate in you. La Fayette, we
know, will bring ' the whole house ' with him if he can.

There has been no material change in our internal situation
since you left us. The capital successes we have had, have
served rather to increase the hopes than the exertions of the
particular States, But in one respect we are in a mending way.
Our financier has hitherto conducted himself with great ability,
has acquired an entire personal confidence; revived, in some
measure, the public credit ; and is conciliating flist the support
of the moneyed men. His operations have hitherto hinged

^T.25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 317

cliicfly on the seasonable aids from your country ; but lie is
urging the establishment of permanent funds among ourselves:
and though, from the nature and temper of our governments,
his applications will meet with a dilatory compliance, it is to be
hoped they will by degrees succeed.

The institution of a Bank has been very serviceable to him :
the commercial interest, finding great advantages in it, and an-
ticipating much greater, is disposed to promote the plan; and
nothing but moderate funds, permanently pledged for the secu-
rity of lenders, is wanting to make it an engine of the most ex-
tensive and solid utility. By the last advices there is reason to
believe the delinquent States will shortly comj)ly with the requi-
sition of Congress for a duty on our imports. This will be a
great resource to Mr, Morris ; but it will not alone be sufficient.

Upon the whole, however, if the war continues another year,
it will be necessary that Congress should again recur to the gen-
erosity of France for pecuniary assistance. The plans of the
financier cannot be so matured as to enable us, by any possi-
bility, to dispense with this ; and if he should fail for want of
support, we must replunge into that confusion and distress which
had like to have proved fatal to us, and out of which we are
slowly emerging. The cure, on a relaj^se, would be infinitely
more difficult than ever.

I have given you an uninteresting but a faithful sketch of
our situation. You may expect, from time to time, to receive
from me the progress of our aftairs ; and I know you will over-
pay me.

I am, my dear Viscount,

Yours faithfully,

A. Hamilton.

To the Viscount De Noailles.

318 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

HAMILTON TO GREENE.

Albany, October 12, 1782.

Dear General:

It is an age since I have either written to you or received a
hne from you ; yet I persuade myself you have not been the
less convinced of my affectionate attachment, and warm partici-
pation in all those events which have given you that place in
your country's esteem and approbation which I have known you
to deserve, while your enemies and rivals were most active in
sullying your reputation.

You will perhaps learn, before this reaches you, that I have
been appointed a Member of Congress. I expect to go to Phila-
delphia in the ensuing month, where I shall be happy to corres-
pond with you with our ancient confidence ; and I shall entreat
you not to confine your observations to military subjects, but to
take in the whole scope of national concerns. I am sure your
ideas will be useful to me and to the public.

I feel the deepest affliction at the news we have just received

of the loss of our dear and estimable friend Laurens. His

career of virtue is at an end. How strangely are human affairs

conducted, that so many excellent qualities could not insure a

more happy fate ! The world will feel the loss of a man who

has left few like him behind, and America of a citizen whose

heart realized that patriotism of which others only talk. I shall

feel the loss of a friend I truly and most tenderly loved, and one

of a very small number.

* * * * -X- * *

I am, dear Sir,

Truly your friend and servant,

A. Hamilton.
To General Greene.

jet.25.] correspondence. 819

HAMILTON TO EOBERT MORRIS.

Albany, October 26, 1782.

Sir:

I am lionored with your letters of the 5th, 15th, and 16th
instant.

The detail you have been pleased to enter into in that of the
15th, exhibits very cogent reasons for confining yourself to
pretty large denominations of notes ; some of them had occurred
to me, others had not ; but I thought it my duty to state to you
the operation which that circumstance had ; as in the midst of
the variety and extent of the objects which occupy your atten-
tion, you may not have so good opportunities of seeing the
effect of your plans in detail. While I acknowledge that your
observations have corrected my ideas upon the subject, and
shown me that there would be danger in generally lessening the
denominations of the paper issued, I should be uncandid not to
add, that it still appears to me, there would be a preponderance
of advantages in having a part of a smaller amount. I shall
not trouble you at present with any further reasons for this
opinion.

I have immediately on the receipt of your letter taken mea-
sures for the publication of your advertisement in the news-
papers of this State.

You will perceive by the inclosed cash account that I have
received five and twenty hundred dollars ; this was procured in
part of the loan I mentioned to you. It was chiefly paid to me
in specie, and I have exchanged it with Colonel Pickering and
Mr. Duer for your notes ; the latter had twelve hundred dollars.
Taxes collect slowly, but I must shortly receive two or three
hundred pounds more, of which Mr. Duer will have the prin-
cipal benefit, as it appears by your letter to him, that you hoped
he might receive three thousand dollars from me.

As I may shortly set out for Philadelphia, I wish to surren-

320 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 25.

der to Mr. Tillotson, as soon as you tliink proper, tlie office in
whicb. lie is to succeed.

I have tlie honor to be,

With sincere respect and esteem,

Sir, your most obedient servant,

Alex. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO LA FAYETTE.

Albany, November 3, 1782.

Since we parted, my dear Marquis, at Yorktown, I have
received three letters from you; one written on your way to
Boston, two from France. I acknowledge that I have written to
you only once ; but the reason has been, that I have been taught
daily to expect your return. This I should not have done from
my own calculations ; for I saw no prospect but of an inactive
campaign; and you had much better be intriguing for your
hobby-horse at Paris, than loitering away your time here. Yet
they seem to be convinced, at head quarters, that you were cer-
tainly coming out ; and by your letters it appears to have been
your own expectation. I imagine you have relinquished it by

this time.

I have been employed for the last ten months in rocking the
cradle and studying the art of fleecing my neighbors. I am now
a grave counsellor-at-law, and shall soon be a grave member of
Congress. The Legislature, at their last session, took it into
their heads to name me, pretty unanimously, one of their
delegates.

I am going to throw away a few months more in public life,
and then retire a simple citizen and good, paterfamilias. I set
out for Philadelphia in a few days. You see the disposition I
am in. You are condemned to run the race of ambition all
your life. I am already tired of the career, and dare to leave it.

jEt. 25.] CORRESPONDENCE. 321

But you would not give a pin for my letter unless politics or
war made a part of it. You tell me tliey are employed in
building a i^eace : and other accounts say it is nearly finished. I
hope the work may meet with no interruptions. It is necessary
for America ; especially if your army is taken from us, as we
are told will soon be the case. That was an essential pom^
d'appui^ though money was the primum mobile of our finances,
which must now lose the little activity lately given them. Our
trade is prodigiously cramped. These States are in no humor for
continuing exertions. If the war lasts, it must be carried on by
external succors. I make no apology for the inertness of this
country : I detest it : but since it exists, I am sorry to see other
resources diminish.

Your Ministers ought to know best what they are doing ;
but if the war goes on, and the removal of the army does not
prove an unwise measure, I renounce all future pretensions to
judgment. I think, however, the circumstances of the enemy
oblige them to peace.

We have been hoping that they would abandon their posts
in these States. It no doubt was once in contemplation, but
latter appearances are rather ambiguous. I begin to suspect that
if peace is not made, New-York and Charleston, the former at
least, will still be held.

There is no probability that I shall be one of the Commis-
sioners of Peace. It is a thing I do not desire myself, and which
I imagine other people will not desire.

Our army is now in excellent order, but small.

The temper we are in respecting the alliance, you will see
from public acts. There never was a time of greater unanimity
on that point.

I wish I durst enter into a greater detail with you ; but our
cipher is not fit for it, and I fear to trust it in another shape.

Is there any thing you wish on this side the water ? You
know the warmth and sincerity of my attachment. Command
me.

I have not been so happy as to see Mr. De Segur. The title

VOL. I. 21

322 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 25.

of your friend would have been a title to every tiling in my

power to manifest.

* * ^- * * * -:^

Yours pour la vie,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. I wrote a long letter to tlie Viscount De Noailles,
whom I also love. Has he received it ? Is the worthy Gouvion
well ? Has he succeeded ? How is it with our friend Gimat ?
How is it with General Du Portail ? All those men are men of
merit, and interest my best wishes.

Poor Laurens ! He has fallen a sacrifice to his ardor in a
trifling skirmish in South Carolina. You know how truly I
loved him, and will judge how much I regret him.

I will write you again soon after my arrival at Philadelphia.

A. H.

To the Marquis De La Fayette.

HAMILTON TO THE GOVEENOK OF KHODE ISLAND.

Philadelphia, Dec. 11, 1782.

Sir:

Congress are equally affected and alarmed by the information
they have received, that the Legislature of your State, at their
last meeting, have refused their concurrence in establishing a
duty on imports. They consider this measure as so indispensable
to the prosecution of the war, that a sense of duty, and regard to
the common safety, compel them to renew their efforts to engage
a compliance with it. And in this view, they ha^e determined to
send a deputation of three members to your State, as expressed in
the inclosed resolution. The gentlemen they have appointed
will be able to lay before you a full and just representation of
public affairs, from which, they flatter themselves, will result a
conviction of the propriety of their solicitude upon the present

iET.23.] CORRESPONDENCE. 323

occasion. Convinced by past experience of fhe zeal and patriot-
ism of tlie State of Ehode Island, they cannot doubt that it will
yield to those urgent considerations which flow from a knowledge
of OTir true situation.

They will only briefly observe that the increasing discontents
of the army, the loud clamors of the public creditors, and the ex-
treme disproportion between the public supplies and the demands
of the public service, are so many invincible arguments for the
fund recommended by Congress. They feel themselves unable
to devise any other that will be more efficacious, less exceptiona-
ble, or more generally agreeable ; and if this is refused, they anti-
cipate calamities of a most menacing nature — with this consola-
tion, however, that they have faithfully discharged their trust,
and that the mischiefs which follow cannot be attributed to them.

A principal object of the proposed fund is to procure loans
abroad. If no security can be held out to lenders, the success of
these must necessarily be very limited. The last accounts on the
subject were not flattering ; and when intelligence shall arrive in
Europe, that the State of Rhode Island has disagreed to the only
fund which has yet been devised, there is every reason to appre-
hend it will have a fatal influence upon their future progress.

Deprived of this resource, our affairs must in all probability
hasten to a dangerous crisis, and these States be involved in greater
embarrassments than they have yet experienced, and from which
it may be much more difficult to emerge. Congress will only add
a request to your Excellency, that if the Legislature should not
be sitting, it may be called together as speedily as possible, to
enable the gentlemen whom they have deputed to perform the
purpose of their mission.

324 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 25.

GOVERNOR CLINTON TO HAMILTON.

PouGHKEEPsiK, December 29, 1782.

Dear Sir:

Before I was honored by your letter of the eighteenth instant,
I had received a line from Colonel Floyd on the same subject.
As my answer to his is forwarded by the present conveyance, I
beg leave to refer you to it for information. I hope it may prove
satisfactory ; and I flatter myself no further disappointment can
take place. Should I, however, be mistaken, you have only
to advise me of it, and I will immediately forward the cash.

Phelps, who was delayed on the road by the late heavy fall
of snow, waited on me a few days since, and delivered me your
official dispatches of the ninth instant. Considering the disposi-
tion heretofore discovered by Congress, on the subject of our con-
troversy with the grants, their resolutions which you inclosed
me, though short of what we are justly entitled to, exceed my
expectations ; and I am not without hope, if properly improved,
may be the mean of leading to a just and favorable issue. The
idea of many of the military being interested in the independency
of Vermont, in consequence of their having taken grants of lands
under them, I believe is without foundation. There was a period
when the disposition of Congress, founded on political expedi-
ence, appeared so favorable to the independence of that district,
as to have induced some gentlemen of the army to apply to the
usurped government for grants. But Avhen it was discovered
that tliey were intriguing with the common enemy, the more
respectable characters withdrew their applications, and rehn-
quished all kind of connection with them ; and even those who
did not go so far, I imagine conceive themselves perfectly secure
under our late acts. If, however, this should not be the case,
any difficulty which may be apprehended from it may be easily
obviated; as I am persuaded the Legislature are disposed to
every liberal act that may consist with the honor of the State, and
tend to facilitate a settlement of the dispute. There was a time,
not long since, when Congress had only to have spoken decicisely

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 325

on the subject, and they would have been obeyed : nor do I be-
lieve the time is yet past, if they could be convinced that Con-
gress were in earnest. But if force is necessary to carry their de-
cision into execution, the longer it is delayed the more force it
will require. The misfortune is, though I believe there are but
few States that favor their independence, some members of those
who do, take great pains to encourage the revolters in their oppo-
sition, by secret assurances that Congress will not direct any coer-
cive measures against them : and I am not without my fears that
this conduct will, in some measure, defeat the present resolutions.
I am, with great respect and esteem,

Dear Sir, your most obedient servant,

George Clintox,
To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

(Most Private.)

Cadix, Feb. 5, 1783. ^

Your friendship to me, my dear sir, and the affection I have
for you, command my most confidential communications. , As
public affairs have the first place with me, let me tell you that
our Articles of Confederation ought to be revised, and measures
immediately taken to invigorate the Continental Union ; depend
upon it, there lies the danger for America ; this last stroke is
wanting, and unless the States be strongly bound to each other,
we have much to fear from British, and, indeed, from European
politics. There ought to be delegates from each State, and
perhaps some ofl&cers among them, one of whom I would be
happy to be, who, toward next fall, would meet together, and
under the presidence of General Washington, may devise upon
amendments to be proposed in the Articles of Confederation —
limits of States, &c., &c., &c. As to the army, I hope their
country will be grateful, I hope the half pay affair may be ter-
minated to their satisfaction.

326 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

Now, my dear sir, I am going to torment you Avith my
private concerns. First of all, I wish the people of America to
know that, when I have lengthened my furlough, it was for their
service, and at the request of their commissioners ; that upon my
embarking in a fresh expedition, it was with a view to join you
in the summer, with forces adequate to every plan Greneral
Washington had directed me to promote; that, moreover, a
Canadian expedition was to take place; that then, instead of
sending a vessel, I was going myself to America. But that
entreaties from your residence at Madrid have forced me to go
there, and probably from there to Paris ; but that in the month
of June, I am to embark for America. I confess, my dear sir,
I have a great value for my American popularity, and I want
the people at large to know my affection to them and my zeal
for their service. The best way to manage it is to have a resolve
of Congress pubhshed, by way of answer to my letters, wherein
their approbation of my conduct will comprehend the above
mentioned matters.

There is another thing which would highly flatter me, and
lies within your department ; a ratification of the treaty will be
sent by Congress to the Court of England ; it is but an honorary
commission, that requires only a few weeks, and even a few days'
attendance. The sedentary Minister you may send, or with me,
or after me, or, what I would like better, at the time when Great
Britain has sent hers to you. So many greater proofs of con-
fidence have been bestowed upon me by Congress, that I may
truly tell you my wishes upon this very pleasing mark of their
esteem. Upon my leaving England, I have been considered
there as an enthusiastic rebel, and, indeed, a young madman. I
would well enough like to present myself there in the capacity
of an Extraordinary Envoy from the United States ; and thoiigh
upon my committing so far the French Ambassador, I have been
with him on pretty bad terms ; now our friendship has revived,
and I am in a situation to lead him into my measures, and to know
his secrets without telling him mine.

As to the choice of a Minister, (this commission being only a
compliment,) I think it is a very difiicult task. I advise to take

tEt. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 327

a gentleman who had no connection with the great men in Eng-
land ; onr friend Hamilton would be a very proper choice ; yon
ought to bring it about. Are you acquainted with Col, Harri-
son, who was in the General's family ; there are fcAV men so
honest and sensible ; but I hope you may send Hamilton, and
he knows better than all the British councils.

In case Congress were pleased to do for me what I have so
much at heart, I would beg you to send Mr. McHenry to me, a
member in the Maryland Senate. This, my dear sir, is entirely
confidential for you, and for you alone ; should the General be
in Philadelphia, you may show it to him. Adieu. My best
respects wait upon your lady and family.

Most affectionately,

I am yours,

La Fayette.

Should you think it of any use to have printed the last
paragraph of my letter to Congress, I will be glad of it, as the
opinion of one who knows Europe may have some weight with
the people.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, February 7, 1783.

Sir:

Flattering myself that your knowledge of me will induce you
to receive the observations I make, as dictated by a regard to
the public good, I take the liberty to suggest to you my ideas
on some matters of delicacy and importance. I view the present
juncture as a very interesting one. I need not observe how far
the temper and situation of the army make it so. The state of
our finances was perhajDS never more critical. I am under
injunctions which will not permit me to disclose some facts that
would at once demonstrate this position ; but I think it probable
you will be possessed of them through another channel. It is,

328 HAMILTON'S WORKS, [^Et. 26.

however, certain, that there lias scarcely been a period of the
revolution which called more for wisdom and decision in Con-
gress. Unfortunately for us, we are a body not governed by
reason or foresight, but by circumstances. It is probable we
shall not take the proper measures ; and if we do not, a few
months may open an embarrassing scene. This will be the case,
whether we have peace or a continuance of the war.

If the war continues, it would seem that the army must, in
June, subsist itself, to defend the country. If peace should take
place, it loill subsist itself, to procure justice to itself. It appears to
be a prevailing opinion in the army, that the disposition to re-
compense their services, will cease with the necessity for them ;
and that if they once lay down their arms, they part with the
means of obtaining justice. It is to be lamented that appear-
ances afford too much ground for their distrust.

It becomes a serious inquiry, "What is the true line of policy ?
The claims of the army, urged with moderation, but with firm-
ness, may operate on those weak minds which are influenced by
their apprehensions more than by their judgments, so as to pro-
duce a concurrence in the measures which the exigencies of
aflairs demand. They may add weight to the applications of
Congress to the several States. So far a useful turn may
be given to them. But the difficulty will be, to keep a corn-
plaining and suffering army within the bounds of moderation.

This your Excellency's influence must effect. In order to
it, it will be advisable not to discountenance their endeavors to
procure redress, but rather, by the intervention of confidential
and prudent jDersons, to take the direction of them. This, however,
must not appear. It is of moment to the public tranquillity,
that your Excellency should preserve the confidence of the
army without losing that of the people. This will enable you,
in case of extremity, to guide the torrent, and to bring order,
perhaps even good, out of confasion. 'Tis a part that requires
address ; but 'tis one which your own situation, as well as the
welfare of the community, points out,

I will not conceal from your Excellency a truth which it is
necessary you shpuld know. An idea is propagated in the army,

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 329

tliat delicacy, carried to an extreme, prevents your espousing its
interests with sufficient Avarmtli. The falsehood of this opinion
no one can be better acquainted with than myself; but it is not
the less mischievous for being false. Its tendency is to impair
that influence which you may exert with advantage, should any
commotions unhappily ensue, to moderate the pretensions of the
army, and make their conduct correspond with their duty.

The great desideratum at present, is the establishment of
general funds, which alone can do justice to the creditors of
the United States (of whom the army forms the most meri-
torious class), restore public credit, and supply the future wants
of government. This is the object of all men of sense. In this,
the influence of the army, properly directed, may co-operate.

The intimations I have thrown out, will suffice to give your
Excellency a proper conception of my sentiments. You will
judge of their reasonableness or fallacy ; but I persuade myself
you will do justice to my motives.

I have the honor to be,

With great respect.

Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

Alex. Hamilton.

General Knox has the confidence of the army, and is a man
of sense. I think he may be safely made use of Situated as I
am, your Excellency will feel the confidential nature of these
observations.

His Excellency General Washingion.

DUANE TO HAMILTON.

Newburgii, 17th February, 1783.

Dear Sir :

I am now on a visit from the General from Kingston, where
the Legislature is convened. The British King's speech to

330 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 26.

his Parliament, and liis Secretary's letters to the Lord Major of
London, which we had the pleasure of meeting here, afford us
the fairest prospect of a speedy peace. I have but one anxiety
remaining, and that respects a better establishment of our Gen-
eral Government on a basis that will secure the permanent union
of the States, and a punctual payment of the public debts. I
do not think our Legislature will be averse to a reasonable
system. The Assembly have agreed to the requisitions of Con-
gress, and to press for the arrears of taxes ; and a joint com-
mittee of both Houses have taken measures to compel the imme-
diate production of the accounts of all who have been intrusted
with public money. This last step became so necessary, that I
found no difficulty in getting it adopted. I would even hazard
an attempt to introduce an intendant, if I had proper materials ;
but I am disappointed in not receiving the Maryland plan, which
was promised me by Mr. Wright and Mr. Homsly. If possible,
I still wish you would forward this act on this stibject, and for
the collection of taxes. The example of a State may be adopted,
when any plan of my own might be rejected. There is such con-
fusion in the present administration of our State finances, and
the weight of our debts is so burthensome, that a remedy must
be provided; and I apprehend the production of the public
accounts, before alluded to, will furnish us with sufficient argu-
ments to prove its necessity.

We are in want of the report, and of the evidence and argu-
ments in support of our Territorial rights. If, as you proposed,
you have taken the trouble to copy it, be so obliging as to trans-
mit your copy. Should your leisure not have been sufficient for
the undertaking, be pleased to get it transcribed and forwarded.
It is a collection of great importance to the State, and if it
should be lost, I do not know who would submit to the labor of
a second effort.

General Schuyler was sent for a week ago to pay the last
duties to your grandfather. He wrote me the tenth, that there
was no hopes of his surviving many days, but I learn that he
was still living four days ago, without the least prospect of re-
covery.

jet.26.] correspondence. 331

From your known punctuality, I take it for granted that you
liave written to me agreeably to your promise, and tliat j^our
letters liave miscarried. Any communication, while the Legis-
lature are convened, would be peculiarly acceptable, and pro-
bably useful.

Be pleased to present my respectful compliments to Colonel
Floyd, to Mrs. Hamilton, and Mr. and Mrs. Carter, and to the
gentlemen of our family, etc.

With the utmost regard, I remain, dear Sir,
Your afiectionate and most

Obedient humble servant,

Jas. Duane.
Colonel Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.

February, 24, 1783.

Sir:

In my letter of the fourteenth I informed your Excellency,
that Congress were employed in devising a plan for carrying the
eighth article of the Confederation into execution. This busi-
ness is at length brought to a conclusion. I inclose, for the in-
formation of the Legislature, the proceedings upon it in diiferent
stages, by which they will see the part I have acted. But as I
was ultimately left in a small minority, I think it my duty to
explain the motives upon which my opposition to the general
course of the House was founded.

I am of opinion, that the article of the Confederation itself
was ill-judged. In the first place, I do not believe there is any
general representative of the wealth of a nation, the criterion of
its ability to pay taxes. There are only two that can be thought
of, land and numbers.

The revenues of the United Provinces (general and partic-
ular) were computed, before the present war, to more than half
as much as those of Great Britain. The extent of their terri-

332 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

tory is not one-fourtli part as great ; tlieir population less than
a third. The comparison is still more striking between those
Provinces and the Swiss Cantons ; in both of which, extent of
territory and population are nearly the same ; and yet the reve-
nues of the former are five times as large as those of the latter ;
nor could any efforts of taxation bring them to any thing like a
level. In both cases, the advantages for agriculture are superior
in those countries which afford least revenue in proportion. I
have selected these examples because they are most familiar ;
but whoever will extend the comparison between the nations of
the world, will perceive that the position I have laid down is
supported by universal experience.

The truth is, the ability of a country to j^ay taxes depends on
infinite combinations of physical and moral causes, which can
never be accommodated to any general rule ; climate, soil, pro-
ductions, advantages for navigation, government, genius of the
people, progress of arts and industry, and an endless variety of
circumstances. The diversities are sufficiently great, in these
States, to make an infinite difference in their relative wealth ; the
proportion of which can never be found by any common measure
whatever.

The only possible way, then, of making them contribute to
the general expense, in an equal proportion to their means, is by
general taxes imposed under Continental authority.

In this mode, there would, no doubt, be inequalities, and, for
a considerable time, material ones ; but experience, and the
constant operation of a general interest, which, by the very
collision of particular interests, must, in the main, prevail in a
Continental deliberative, would at length correct those inequali-
ties, and balance one tax that should bear hard upon one State,
by another that should have proportional weight in others. This
idea, however, was not, at the period of framing the Confedera-
tion, and is not yet, agreeable to the spirit of the time. To
futurity we must leave the discovery, how far this spirit is wise
or foolish. One thing only is now certain ; that Congress, having
the discretionary power of determining the quantum of money
to b'e paid into the general treasury towards defraying the com-

^Et. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 333

mon expenses, have, in effect, the constitutional power of general
taxation.

The restraints upon the exercise of this power, amount to
perpetuating a rule for fixing the proportions, which must of
necessity produce inequality, and, by refusing the Federal Go-
vernment a power of specific taxation and of collection, without
substituting any other adequate means of coercion, do, in fact,
leave the compliance with Continental requisitions to the good
will of the respective States. Inequality is inherent in the theory
of the Confederation ; and, in the practice, that inequality must
increase in proportion to the honesty or dishonesty of the com-
ponent parts. This vice will either, in its consequences, reform
the Federal Constitution, or dissolve it.

If a general standard must be fixed, numbers were preferable
to land. Modes might be devised to ascertain the former with
tolerable precision ; but I am persuaded the experiment will
prove, that the value of all the land in each State cannot be
ascertained with any thing like exactness. Both these measures
have the common disadvantage of being no equal representative
of the wealth of the people ; but one is much more simple, defi-
nite, and certain than the other.

I have indulged myself in these remarks, to show that I have
little expectation of success from any mode of carrying the article
in question into execution upon equitable principles. I owe it,
however, to myself, to declare, that my opposition did not arise
from this source. The Confederation has pointed out this mode ;
and, though I would heartily join in a representation of the dif-
ficulties (of which every man of sense must be sensible on exa-
mination) that occur in the execution of the plan, to induce the
States to consent to a change, yet, as this was not the disposition
of a majority of Congress, I would have assented to any mode of
attempting it which was not either obviously mischievous or im-
practicable.

The first plan proposed, as your Excellency will see, was an
actual valuation of each State by itself This was evidentlj^
making the interested party judge in his own cause. Those who
have seen the operation of this principle between the counties in the

334 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

same State, and the districts in the same county, cannot doubt a
moment that the valuations on this plan would have been alto-
gether unequal and unjust. Without supposing more liberality
in one State than another, the degree of care, judgment, and me-
thod, employed in the execution, would alone make extreme
differences in the results.

This mode has, also, the further inconvenience of awakening
all the jealousies of the several States against each other. Each
would suspect that its neighbor had favored itself, whether the
partiality appeared or not. It would be impossible to silence
these distrusts, and to make the States sit down satisfied with the
justice of each other. Every new requisition for money would
be a new signal for discussion and clamor ; and the seeds of dis-
union, already sown too thick, would not be a little multiplied.

To guard against these evils, the plan proposes a revision by
Congress ; but it is easy to be seen that such a power could not
be exercised. Should any States return defective valuations, it
would be difficult to find sufficient evidence to determine them
such. To alter would not be admissible ; for Congress could
have no data which could be presinned equivalent to those which
must have governed the judgment of commissioners under oath,
or an actual view of the premises. To do either this, or to reject,
would be an impeachment of the honor of the States, which it is
not probable there would be decision enough to hazard ; and
which, if done, could not fail to excite serious disgusts. There is
a wide difference between a single State exercising such a power
over its own counties, and a Confederated Government exercising
it over sovereign States which compose the Confederacy. It
might also happen, that' too many States would be interested in
the defective valuations, to leave a sufficient number willing,
either to alter or to reject.

These considerations prevailed to prevent the plan being
adopted by a majority.

The last plan may be less mischievous than the first ; but it
appears to me altogether ineff'ectual. The mere quantity of land
granted and surveyed, with the general species of buildings upon
them, can certainly be no criteria to determine their value. The

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 335

plan does not even distmguisli tlie improved from tlie unimproved
land ; the qualities of soil, or degrees of improvement : tlie quan-
tities of the houses and other buildings, are entirely omitted^
These, it seems, are to be judged of by the commissioners to be
appointed by each State. But I am unable to conceive, how
any commissioner can form the least estimate of these circum-
stances with respect even to his own State, much less with respect
to other States, which would be necessary to establish a just rela-
tive value. If even there was a distinction of improved from un-
improved land, by supposing an intrinsic value in the land, and
adopting general rates, something nearer the truth might be at-
tained ; but it must now be all conjecture and uncertainty.

The numbers of inhabitants, distinguishing white from black,
are called for. This is not only totally foreign to the Confedera-
tion, but can answer no reasonable purpose. It has been said,
that the proportion of numbers may guide and correct the esti-
mates. An assertion, purely verbal, has no meaning. A judg-
ment must first be formed of the value of the lands upon some
principles. If this should be altered by the proportion of num-
bers, it is plain numbers would be substituted to land.

Another objection to this plan is, that it lets in the particular
interests of the States, to operate in the returns of the quantities
of land, number of buildings, and number of inhabitants. But
the principle of this objection applies less forcibly here than
against the former plan.

Whoever will consider the plain import of the eighth article of
the Confederation, must be convinced, that it intended an actual
and specific valuation of land, buildings, and improvements, not a
mere general estimate, according to the present plan. While we
insist, therefore, upon adhering to the Confederation, we should
do it in reality, not barely in aj)pearance.

Many of those who voted for this scheme, had as bad an opin-
ion of it as myself; but they were induced to accede to it, by a
persuasion that some plan for the purpose was expected by the
States ; and that none better, in the present circumstances of the
country, could be fallen upon.

A leading rule which I have laid down for the direction of

336 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

my conduct, is tliis : that wliilc I would liave a just deference for
the expectations of the States, I would never consent to amuse
them by attempts which must either foil in the execution, or be
productive of evil. I would rather incur the negative inconve-
niences of delay than the positive mischiefs of injudicious expe-
dients. A contrary conduct serves to destroy confidence in the
government, the greatest misfortune that can befall a nation.
There should, in my opinion, be a character of wisdom and effi-
ciency in all the measures of the Federal Council, the opposite of
a spirit of temporizing concession.

I would have sufficient reliance on the judgments of the seve-
ral States, to hope that good reasons for not attempting a thing,
would be more satisfactory to them than precipitate and fruitless
attempts.

My idea is, that, taking it for granted the States will expect an
experiment on the principle of the Confederation, the best plan
will be to make it by commissioners appointed by Congress, and
acting under their authority. Congress might, in the first in-
stance, appoint three or more of the principal characters in each
State for probity and abilities, with a power to nominate other
commissioners under them, in each subdivision of the State. Ge-
neral principles might be laid down for the regulation of their
conduct, by which uniformity in the manner of conducting the
business would obtain. Sanctions of such solemnity might be
prescribed, and such notoriety given to every part of the transac-
tion, that the commissioners could neither be careless nor partial
without a sacrifice of reputation.

To carry this plan, however, into effect, with sufficient care
and accuracy, would be a work both of time and expense ; and,
unfortunately, we are so pressed to find money for calls of im-
mediate necessity, that we could not, at present, undertake a
measure which would require so large a sum.

To me it appears evident, that every part of a business which
is of so important and universal concern, should be transacted on
uniform principles, and under the direction of that hody which
has a common interest.

In general, I regard the present moment, probably the dawn

^T. 26.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 337

of peace, as peculiarly critical ; and the measures which it shall
produce, as of great importance to the future welfare of these
States. I am, therefore, scrupulously cautious of assenting to
plans which appear to me founded on false principles.

Your Excellency will observe, that the valuation of the
lands is to be the standard for adjusting the accounts, for past
supplies, between the United States and the particular States.
This, if adhered to, without allowance for the circumstances of
those States which have been more immediately the theatre of
the war, will charge our State for the past, according to lis, future
ahility, when in an entire condition, if the valuation should be
made after we regain possession of the parts of the State now in
the power of the enemy.

I have heretofore introduced a motion for repeating the call,
in a more earnest manner, upon the States, to vest Congress with
a power of making equitable abatements, agreeably to the spirit
of the Eesolution of the twentieth of February last, which few of
the States have complied with. This motion has been committed.
I know not what will be its fate.

Notwithstanding the opposition I have given, now the matter
has been decided in Congress, I hope the State will cheerfully
cofnply with what is required. Unless each State is governed
by this principle, there is an end of the Union. Every State
will, no doubt, have a right, in this case, to accompany its com-
pliance with such remarks as it may think proper.

I have the honor to be.

Your Excellency's most ob't servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. After the plan was agreed upon, it was committed to
be put into form ; and, when reported, instead of commissioners,
an alteration was carried for making the estimate by a Grand
Committee.

February 27.

Mr. Morris has signified to Congress, his resolution to resign
by the first of June, if adequate funds are not by that time pro-
VOL. I. 22

338 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 26.

vided. This will be a severe stroke to our affairs. No man, fit
for the office, will be willing to supply his place, for the very
reason he resigns.

'Tis happy for us we have reasons to expect a peace. I am
sorry that, by difterent accounts, it appears not to have been
concluded late in December.

To His Excellency Governor Clinton.

GOVERNOR CLINTON TO HAMILTON.

Kingston, February 24, 1783.

Sir:

I have been honored by your letter of the twelfth of January.
You may remember, that in July last, I submitted to the con-
sideration of our Legislature, certain Eesolutions of the Assembly
of New Hampshire, making overtures for an amicable settlement
of a boundary line between the two States ; which were read
and committed : but as the session was short, and devoted prin-
cipally to the particular business for which they were convened,
no determination was had on the subject. I had some reason to
expect a consideration of these Resolutions would have taken
place at the present meeting. This induced me to defer answer-
ing your letter until I coidd inform you of the result. I cannot,
however, discover any disposition to take up this business. It
seems to be the prevailing opinion, that as Congress has engaged
to make a final decision of the controversy respecting the district
called the Grants, a partial compromise of the matter would be
improper ; as any measures for the purpose, might alienate the
affections of our most zealous subjects in that quarter, and be
attended with other dangerous consequences. Besides, doubts
exist whether the Legislature have authority, by any act of
theirs, to consent to such a dismemberment of the State as would
probably be insisted upon, on a compromise with New Ham^D-
shire. I am, nevertheless, still j^ersuaded, should Congress

^T.26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 339

determine tlie summit of the mountains to be tlie boundary be-
tween the two States, this State (whatever our sentiments might
be of the equity of the decision) would, for the sake of peace,
submit to it : and there cannot be a doubt, but that New Hamp-
shire would be perfectly satisfied with the jurisdiction of so ex-
tensive and valuable a territory. I take it for granted, that,
whatever may be the decision, equitable measures will be adopted
for securing the property of individuals.

I congratulate you, most sincerely, on the promising pros-
pects of peace. I pray nothing may prevent the desirable event
soon taking place. Our friends from the city, and Long Island,
anxiously wait for the moment in which they may return to
their homes. The expectations of all are so much raised as to
obstruct public business not a little. Please to offer my best re-
spects to Mrs. Hamilton, and believe me.

With great respect and esteem,

Sir, your most obedient servant,

Geo. Clintok

P. S. It is with great concern I mention, that since writing
the above, I am informed of the death of your relation. Colonel
John Van Eensselaer. He departed this life on Friday last.
General Schuyler, who was sent for when his recovery was
despaired of, is to set out from Albany on his return to this
place on Wednesday next.

G. C.

«

To Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Newburgh, March 4, 1783.

Dear Sir :

I have received your favor of February, and thank you for
the information and observations it has conveyed to me. I shall
always think myself obliged by a free communication of senti-

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

ments, and have often thought (but suppose I thought wrong, as
it did not accord with the practice of Congress), that the public
interest might be benefited, if the Commander-in-Chief of the
army was let more into the political and pecuniary state of our
affairs than he is. Enterprises, and the adoption of military and
other arrangements that might be exceedingly proper in some
circumstances, would be altogether improper in others. It fol-
lows, then, by fair deduction, that where there is a want of infor-
mation, there must be chance-medley ; and a man may be upon
the brink of a precipice before he is aware of his danger, when a
little foreknowledge might enable him to avoid it. But this by
the by.

The hint contained in your letter, and the knowledge I have
derived from the jmblic gazettes, respecting the non-payment of
taxes, contain all the information I have received of the danger
that stares us in the face on account of our funds ; and so far was
I from conceiving that our finances were in so deplorable a state,
at this time, that I had imbibed ideas from some source or other,
that, with the prospect of a loan from Holland, we should be
able to rub along.

To you, who have seen the danger to which the army has
been exposed to a political dissolution for want of subsistence,
and the unhappy spirit of licentiousness which it imbibed by
becoming, in one or two instances, its own proveditors, no obser-
vations are necessary to evince the fatal tendency of such a
measure ; but I shall give it as my opinion, that it would at this
day be productive of civil commotions and end in blood. Un-
happy situation this ! God forbid we should be involved in it.

The predicament in which I stand, as citizen and soldier, is
as critical and delicate as can well be conceived. It has been
the subject of many contemplative hours. The sufferings of a
complaining army on one hand, and the inability of Congress,
and tardiness of the States on the other, are the forebodings of
evil, and may be productive of events which are more to be de-
precated than prevented : but I am not without hope, if there is
such a disposition shown as prudence and policy dictate, to do
justice, your apprehensions, in case of peace, are gi'eater than

vEt. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 341

there is cause for. In this, however, I may be mistaken, if those
ideas which you have been informed are propagated in the army,
should be extensive, the source of which may be easily traced ;
as the old leaven, it is said, for I have no proof of it, is again
beginning to work, under the mask of the most perfect dissimu-
lation and apparent cordiality.

Be these things as they may, I shall pursue the same steady
line of conduct which has governed me hitherto; fully con-
vinced, that the sensible and discerning part of the army cannot
be unacquainted (although I never took pains to inform them)
of the services I have rendered it on more occasions than one.
This, and pursuing the suggestions of your letter, which I am
happy to find coincide with my own practice for several months
past, and which was the means of directing the business of the
army into the channel it now is, leave me under no great appre-
hension of its exceeding the bounds of reason and moderation ;
notwithstanding the prevailing sentiment in the army is, that
the prospect of compensation for past services will terminate
with the war.

The just claims of the army ought, and it is to be hoped will,
have their weight with every sensible Legislature in the Union,
if Congress point to their demands ; show (if the case is so) the
reasonableness of them ; and the impracticability of complying
without their aid. In any other point of view, it would, in my
opinion, be impolitic to introduce the army on the tapis, lest it
should excite jealousy and bring on its concomitants. The
States cannot, surely, be so devoid of common sense, common
honesty, and common policy, as to refuse their aid, on a full,
clear, and candid representation of facts from Congress; more
especially, if these should be enforced by members of their own
body, who might demonstrate what the inevitable consequences
of failure must lead to.

In my opinion it is a matter worthy of consideration, how
far an adjournment of Congress for a few months is advisable.
The delegates, in that case, if they are in unison themselves re-
specting the great defects of their Constitution, may represent them
folly and boldly to their constituents. To me, who know nothing

342 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEr. 26.

of the business which is before Congress, nor of the arcanum, it
appears that such a measure would tend to promote the public
weal : for it is clearly my opinion, unless Congress have powers
competent to all general purjDOses, that the distresses we have
encountered, the expenses we have incurred, and the blood we
have spilt, in the course of an eight years' war, will avail us
nothing.

The contents of your letter is known only to myself; and
your prudence will direct what should be done with this.
With great esteem and regard,
I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

Gr. WASHrnGTON.

To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

HAMILTON" TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, March 5, 1783.

Sir:

I had the honor of writing to your Excellency lately on a
very confidential subject, and shall be anxious to know, as soon
as convenient, whether the letter got safe to hand.

The bearer, Shattuck, thinks he can point out means of
apprehending "Wells and Knowlton, the two persons whom your
Excellency was authorized to have taken into custody. I have
desired him to call upon you to disclose the plan.

I will not trouble your Excellency with any observation on
the importance of getting hold of those persons.

The surmise that Mr. Arnold, a member of Congress, gave
intelligence to them of the design to take them, makes it pecu-
liarly important.

I have the honor to be,

Your Excellency's most ob't serv't,

A. Hamilton.

To His Excellency General Washington.

jet.26.] correspondence. 343

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON,

Newburgh, March 12, 1783.

Dear Sir:

When I wrote to you last, we were in a state of tranquillity ;
but after the arrival of a certain gentleman, who shall be name-
less at present, from Philadelphia, a storm very suddenly arose,
with unfavorable prognostics ; which, though diverted for a
moment, is not yet blown over ; nor is it in my power to point
to the issue.

The papers which I send officially to Congress, will super-
sede tlie necessity of my remarking on the tendency of them.
The notification and address, both, appeared at the same in-
stant, on the day preceding the intended meeting. The first of
these I got hold of the same afternoon ; the other not till next
morning.

There is something very mysterious in this business. It
appears reports have been propagated in Philadelphia, that dan-
gerous combinations were forming in the army ; and this at a
time when there was not a syllable of the kind in agitation in
camp. It also appears, that upon the arrival in camp of the
gentleman above alluded to, such sentiments as these were im-
mediately circulated : That it was universally expected the army
would not disband until they had obtained justice ; that the
public creditors looked up to them for redress of their own griev-
ances; would afford them every aid, and even join them in
the field, if necessary ; that some members of Congress wished
the measure might take effect, in order to compel the public,
particularly the delinquent States, to do justice ; with many
other suggestions of a similar nature.

From this, and a variety of other considerations, it is firmly
believed by some, the scheme was not only planned, but also
digested and matured, in Philadelphia;* but my opinion shall

* The words, " By others, that it is the illegitimate oftspring of a person in
the army," which came in here, arc obliterated in the original, but were restored
by Washington in the postscript.

344 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 26.

be suspended till I have better ground to found one on. The
matter was managed with great art ; for as soon as the minds of
the officers were thought to be prepared for the transaction, the
anonymous invitations and addresses to the officers were put in
circulation through every State line in the army. I was obliged,
therefore, in order to arrest on the spot, the feet that stood
wavering on a tremendous precipice, to prevent the officers from
being taken by surprise, while the passions were all inflamed,
and to rescue them from plunging themselves into a gulf of
civil horror from which there might be no receding, to issue the
order of the eleventh.

This was done upon the principle that it is easier to divert
from a wrong, and point to a right path, than it is to recall the
hasty and fatal steps which have been already taken.

It is commonly supposed, if the officers had met agreeably to
the anonymous summons, with their feelings all alive, resolu-
tions might have been formed, the consequences of which may
be more easily conceived than described. Now they will have
leisure to view the matter more calmly, and will act more seri-
ously. It is to be hoped they will be induced to adopt more
rational measures, and wait a while longer a settlement of their
accounts, the postponing of which appears to be the most plau-
sible, and almost the only article of which designing men can
make an improper use, by insinuating (which they really do)
that it is done with design that peace may take place, and pre-
vent any adjustment of accounts; which, say they, would inevi-
tably be the case, if the war was to cease to-morrow : or, suppos-
ing the best, you would have to dance attendance at public
offices, at great distances, perhaps, and equally great expenses,
to obtain a settlement, which would be highly injurious, nay,
ruinous to you. This is their language.

Let me beseech you, therefore, my good sir, to urge this mat-
ter earnestly, and without further delay. The situation of these
gentlemen, I do verily believe, is distressing beyond description.
It is affirmed to me, that a large part of them have no better
prospect before them than a jail, if they are turned loose with-
out liquidation of accounts, and an assurance of that justice to

jet.26.] correspondence. 345

wliicli they are so worthily entitled. To prevail on the delegates
of those States, through whose means these difficulties occur, it
may, in my opinion, with propriety be suggested to them, if any
disastrous consequences should follow, by reason of their delin-
quency, that they must be answerable to God and their Country
for the ineffable horrors which may be occasioned thereby.

I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

G. Washington,

P. S. I have received your letter of the fifth, and have put
that matter in train which was mentioned in it.

G. W.

I am this instant informed, that a second address to the
officers, distinguished No. 2, is thrown into circulation. The
contents evidently prove, that the author is in, or near, camp ;
and that the following words, erased in the second page of this
letter, ought not to have met with this treatment, viz. — " By
others, that it is the illegitimate offspring of a person in the
army."

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, March 17, 1783.

Sir:

I am duly honored with your Excellency's letters of the
fourth and twelfth instant. It is much to be regretted, though
not to be wondered at, that steps of so inflammatory a tendency
have been taken in the army. Your Excellency has, in my
opinion, acted wisely. The best way is, ever, not to attempt to
stem a torrent, but to divert it.

I am happy to find you coincide in opinion with me on the
conduct proper to be observed by yourself I am persuaded,
more and more, it is that which is most consistent with your own
reputation and the public safety.

346 HAMILTON'S WORKS, [^t. 26.

Our aftairs wear a most serious aspect, as well foreign as
domestic. Before this gets to hand, your Excellency will pro-
bably have seen the provisional articles between Great Britain
and these States. It might, at first appearance, be concluded,
that these will be the prelude to a general peace ; but there are
strong reasons to doubt the truth of such a conclusion. Obstacles
may arise from different quarters ; from the demands of Spain
and Holland ; from the hope, in France, of greater acquisitions
in the East ; and, perhaps, still more probably, from the insin-
cerity and duplicity of Lord Shelburne, whose politics, founded
in the peculiarity of his situation, as well as in the character of
the man, may well be suspected of insidiousness. I am really
apprehensive, if peace does not take place, that the negotiations
will tend to sow distrust among the allies, and weaken the
force of the common league. We have, I fear, men among us,
and men in trust, who have a hankering after British connection.
We have others whose confidence in France savors of credulity.
The intrigues of the former, and the incautiousness of the latter,
may be both, though in different degrees, injurious to the Ameri-
can interests, and make it difficult for prudent men to steer a
proper course.

There are delicate circumstances, with respect to the late
foreign transactions, which I am not at liberty to reveal ; but
which, joined to our internal weaknesses, disorders, follies, and
prejudices, make this country stand upon precarious ground.

Some use, perhaps, may be made of these ideas, to induce
moderation in the army. An opinion that their country does
not stand upon a secure footing, will operate upon the patriotism
of the officers against hazarding any domestic commotions.

When I make these observations, I cannot forbear adding,
that if no excesses take place, I shall not be sorry that ill-
humors have appeared. I shall not regret importunity, if tem-
perate, from the army.

There are good intentions in the majority of Congress, but
there is not sufficient wisdom or decision. There are dangerous
prejudices, in the particular States, opposed to those measures
which alone can give stability and prosperity to the Union.

iEx. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 347

There is a fatal opposition to Continental views. Necessity
alone can work a reform. But how produce that necessity, how
apply it, and how keep it within salutary bounds ? I fear we
have been contending for a shadow.

The affair of accounts I considered as having been put on a
satisfactory footing. The particular States have been required
to settle till the first of August, '80 ; and the Superintendent of
Finance has been directed to take measures for settling since that
period. I shall immediately see him on the subject.

We have had eight States and a half in favor of a commuta-
tion of the half pay for an average of ten years' purchase ; that
is, five years' full pay instead of half pay for life, which, on a
calculation of annuities, is nearly an equivalent. I ho]3e this
will now shortly take place.

We have made considerable progress in a plan to be recom-
mended to the several States for funding all the public debts,
including those of the army ; which is certainly the only way to
restore public credit, and enable us to continue the war by bor-
rowing abroad, if it should be necessary, to continue it.

I omitted mentioning to your Excellency, that, from Euro-
pean intelligence, there is great reason to believe, at all events,
peace or war. New- York will be evacuated in the spring. It
will be a pity if any domestic disturbances should change the
plans of the British Court.

I have the honor to be.

With the greatest respect.

Your Excellency's most ob't serv't,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. Your Excellency mentions, that it has been surmised,
the plan in agitation was formed in Philadelphia ; that combina-
tions have been talked of between the public creditors and the
army ; and that members of Congress had encouraged the idea.
This is partly true. I have myself urged, in Congress, the pro-
priety of uniting the influence of the public creditors, and the
army, as a part of them, to prevail upon the States to enter into
their views. I have expressed the same sentiments out of doors.

348 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 26.

Several other members of Congress have done the same. The
meaning, however, of all this, was simpl}^, that Congress should
adopt such a plan as would embrace the relief of all the public
creditors, including the army ; in order that the personal influ-
ence of some, the connections of others, and a sense of justice to
the army, as well as the apprehension of ill consequences, might
form a mass of influence, in each State, in favor of the measures
of Congress. In this view, as I mentioned to your Excellency
in a former letter, I thought the discontents of the army might
be turned to a good account. I am still of opinion, that their
earnest but respectful applications for redress will have a good
effect. As to any combination of force^ it would only be produc-
tive of the horrors of a civil war, might end in the ruin of the
country, and would certainly end in the ruin of the army.

A. H.
To His Excellency General Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, March 24, 1783.

Sir:

Your Excellency will, before this reaches you, have received
a letter from the Marquis De La Fayette, informing you, that the
preliminaries of peace between all the belligerent powers have
been concluded. I congratulate your Excellency on this happy
conclusion of your labors. It now only remains to make solid
establishments within, to perpetuate our Union, to prevent our
being a ball in the hands of European powers, banded against
each other at their pleasure ; in fine, to make our independence
truly a blessing. This, it is to be lamented, will be an arduous
work ; for, to borrow a figure from mechanics, the centrifugal is
much stronger than the centripetal force in these States ; the
seeds of disunion much more numerous than those of union.

I will add, that your Excellency's exertions are as essential

.Et. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 349

to accomplisli this end, as they have been to establish indepen-
dence. I will, upon a future occasion, open myself upon this
subject.

Your conduct in the affair of the officers is highly pleasing
here. The measures of the army are such as I could have wished
them, and will add new lustre to their character, as well as
strengthen the hands of Congress.

I am, with great truth and respect,
Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

A. Hamiltoist.
To his Excellency General Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, March 25, 1783.

Sir:

I wrote to your Excellency a day or two ago by ex|)ress.
Since that, a committee, appointed on the communications from
you, have had a meeting, and find themselves embarrassed. They
have requested me to communicate our embarrassments to you
in confidence, and to ask your private opinion. The army, by
their resolutions, express an expectation that Congress will not
disband them previous to a settlement of accounts, and the estab-
lishment of funds. Congress may resolve upon the first, but the
general opinion is, that they cannot constitutionally declare the
second. They have no right, by the Confederation, to demand
funds ; they can only recommend : and to determine, that the
army shall be continued in service till the States grant them,
woald be to determine, that the whole present army shall be a
standing army during peace, unless the States comply with the
requisition for funds. This, it is supposed, would excite the
alarms and jealousies of the States, and increase, rather than les-
sen, the opposition to the funding scheme. It is also observed,
that the longer the army is kept together, the more the payment
of past dues is procrastinated ; the abilities of the States being

350 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 26.

exhausted for their immediate support, and a new debt every
day incurred. It is further suggested, that there is danger in
keeping the army together, in a state of inactivity, and that a
separation of the several lines would facilitate the settlement of
accounts, diminish present expense, and avoid the danger of
union. It is added, that the ofl&cers of each line, being on the
spot, might, by their own solicitations, and those of their friends,
forward the adoption of funds in the different States.

A proposition will be transmitted to you by Colonel Bland,
in the form of a resolution, to be adopted by Congress, framed
upon the principles of the foregoing reasoning.

Another proposition is contained in the following resolution :

" That the Commander-in-Chief be informed, it is the inten-
tion of Congress to effect the settlement of the accounts of the
respective lines previous to their reduction ; and that Congress
are doing, and will continue to do, every thing in their power
towards procuring satisfactory securities for what shall be found
due on such settlement."

The scope of this your Excellency will perceive without com-
ment.

I am to request you will favor me with your sentiments on
both the propositions ; and, in general, with your ideas of what
had best be done with reference to the expectation expressed by
the ofl&cers ; taking into view the situation of Congress. On one
side, the army expect they will not be disbanded till accounts
are settled and funds established. On the other hand, they have
no constitutional power of doing any thing more than to recom-
mend funds, and are persuaded that these will meet with moun-
tains of ]3rejudice in some of the States.

A considerable progress has been made in a plan for funding

the public debts ; and it is to be hoped it will ere long go forth

to the States, with every argument that can give it success.

I have the honor to be,

With sincere respect,

Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
To his Excellency General Washington,

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 351

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

PHiT.ADELPHrA, Mai'ch 25, 1783.

Sir:

Tlie inclosed I write more in a public than in a private capa-
city. Here I write as a citizen, zealous for the true happiness of
this country; as a soldier who feels what is due to an army
which has suffered every thing, and done much for the safety of
America.

I sincerely wish ingratitude was not so natural to the human
heart as it is. I sincerely wish there were no seeds of it in those
who direct the councils of the United States. But while I urge
the army to moderation, and advise your Excellency to take the
direction of their discontents, and endeavor to confine them
within the bounds of duty, I cannot, as an honest man, conceal
from you, that I am afraid their distrusts have too much founda-
tion. Republican jealousy has in it a principle of hostility to an
army, whatever be their merits, whatever be their claims to the
gratitude of the community. It acknowledges their services with
unwillingness, and rewards them with reluctance. I see this
temper, though smothered with great care, involuntarily breaking
out upon too many occasions. I often feel a mortification, which
it would be impolitic to express, that sets my passions at variance
with my reason. Too many, I perceive, if they could do it with
safety or color, would be glad to elude the just pretensions of the
army. I hope this is not the prevailing disj^osition.

But supposing the country ungrateful, what can the army do ?
It must submit to its hard fate. To seek redress by its arms
would end in its ruin. The army would moulder by its own
weight, and for want of the means of keeping together : the sol-
diery would abandon their ofiicers : there would be no chance of
success, without having recourse to means that would reverse our
revolution. I make these observations, not that I imagine your
Excellency can want motives to continue your influence in the
path of moderation ; but merely to show why I cannot, myself,
enter into the views of coercion which some gentlemen entertain.

x352 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 26.

For I confess, could force avail, I should almost wish to see it
employed. I have an indifferent opinion of the honesty of this
country, and ill forebodings as to its future system.

Your Excellency will perceive I have written with sensations
of chagrin, and will make allowance for coloring : but the general
picture is too true. God send us all more wisdom.

I am, with very sincere respect,
Your Excellency's

Obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
To his Excellency General Washington.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Newburgh, March 31, 1783.

Dear Sir :

I have duly received your favors of the seventeenth and
twenty-fourth ultimo. I rejoice, most exceedingly, that there is
an end to our warfare ; and that such a field is opening to our
view, as will, with wisdom to direct the cultivation of it, make
us a great, a respectable, and happy people : but it must be im-
proved by other means than State politics and unreasonable
jealousies and prejudices ; or (it requires not the second sight to
see that) we shall be instruments in the hands of our enemies,
and those European powers who may be jealous of our greatness
in union, to dissolve the Confederation. But to attain this,
although the way seems extremely plain, is not so easy.

My wish to see the union of these States established upon
liberal and permanent principles, and inclination to contribute
my mite in pointing out the defects of the present constitution,
are equally great. All my j)rivate letters have teemed with
these sentiments ; and whenever this topic has been the subject
of conversation, I have endeavored to diffuse and enforce them ;
but how far any further essay, by me, might be productive of the

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 353

wislied for end, or appear to arrogate more than belongs to me,
depends so mucli upon popular opinion, and the temper and dis-
position of people, that it is not easy to decide. I shall be
obliged to you, however, for the thoughts which you have
promised me on this subject, and as soon as you can make it
convenient.

No man in the United States, is, or can be, more deeply im-
pressed with the necessity of a reform in our present Confedera-
tion, than myself; no man, perhaps, has felt the bad effects of it
more sensibly : for, to the defects thereof, and want of powers in
Congress, may justly be ascribed the prolongation of the war,
and, consequently, the expenses occasioned by it. More than
half the perplexities I have experienced in the course of my
command, and almost the whole of the difficulties and distress of
the army, have their origin here: but still, the prejudices of
some, the designs of others, and the mere machinery of the
majority, make address and management necessary, to give
weight to opinions which are to combat the doctrines of these
different classes of men, in the field of politics.

I would have been more full on this subject, but the bearer
(in the clothing department) is waiting. I wish you may under-
stand what I have written.

I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

Gr. Washingtojst.
To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Newburgh, April 4, 1783.

Dear Sir:

The same post which gave me your two letters of the twenty-
fifth of March, handed me one from Colonel Bland on the same
point.

Observing that both have been written at the desire of a com-

VOL. I. 23

354 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

mittee of wliicli you are both members, I have made a very full
reply to their subject in my letter which is addressed to Colonel
Bland ; and, suj)posing it unnecessary to enter into a complete
detail to both, I must beg leave to refer you to Colonel Bland's
(a sight of which I have desired him to give you), for a full ex^
planation of my ideas and sentiments.

I read 3^our private letter of the twenty -fifth with pain, and
contemplated the picture it had drawn with astonishment and
horror : but I will yet hope for the best. The idea of redress, by
force, is too chimerical to have had a place in the imagination of
any serious mind in this army ; but there is no telling Avhat un-
happy disturbances may result from distress, and distrust of
justice : and as the fears and jealousies of the army are alive, I
hope no resolution will be come to, for disbanding or separating
the lines, till the accounts are liquidated. You may rely upon
it, sir, that unhappy consequences would follow the attempt.
The suspicions of the officers are afloat, notwithstanding the
resolutions which have passed on both sides. Any act, there-
fore, which can be construed into an attempt to separate them
before the accounts are settled, will convey the most unfevorable
ideas of the rectitude of Congress : whether well or ill founded,
matters not ; the consequences will be the same.

I will now, in strict confidence, mention a matter which may
be useful for j^ou to be informed of. It is, that some men (and
leading ones, too) in this army, are beginning to entertain sus-
picions that Congress, or some members of it, regardless of the
past sufferings and present distress, maugre the justice which is
due to them, and the returns which a grateful people should
make to men who certainly have contributed, more than any
other class, to the establishment of Independency, are to be
made use of as mere puppets to establish Continental funds;
and that, rather than not succeed in this measure, or weaken
their ground, they would make a sacrifice of the army and all its
interests.

I have two reasons for mentioning this matter to you : the
one is, that the army (considering the irritable state it is in, its
sufferings, and composition) is a dangerous instrument to play

iET.26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 355

witli ; the otlier, that every possible means, consistent with their
own views (which certainly are moderate), should be essayed to
get it disbanded without delay, I might add a third : it is, that
the Financier is suspected to be at the bottom of this scheme. If
sentiments of this sort should become general, their operation
will be opposed to this plan, at the same time that it would
increase the present discontents. Upon the whole, disband the
army as soon as possible, but consult the wishes of it, which
really are moderate in the mode, and perfectly compatible with
the honor, dignity, and justice, which is due from the country
to it.

I am, with great esteem and regard.
Dear Sir, your most obedient servant,

G. Washington.
To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

April 11, 1783.

Sir:

I have received your Excellency's letters of the thirty -first of
March, and fourth of April; the last to-day. The one to Colonel
Bland, as member of the committee, has been read in com-
mittee confidentially, and gave great satisfaction. The idea of
not attem^Dting to separate the army before the settlement of
accounts, corresponds with my proposition. That of endeavor-
ing to let them have some pay, had also appeared to me indis-
pensable. The expectations of the army, as represented by
your Excellency, are moderation itself. To-morrow we confer
with the Superintendent of Finance on the subject of money.
There will be difiiculty, but not, we hope, insurmountable.

I thank your Excellency for the hints you are so obliging as
to give me in your private letter. I do not wonder at the suspi-
cions that have been infused ; nor should I be surprised to hear,
that I have been pointed out as one of the persons concerned in.

856 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 26.

playing the game described. But facts must speak for them-
selves. The gentlemen who were here from the army, General
McDougal, who is still here, will be able to give a true account
of those who have supported the just claims of the army, and of
those who have endeavored to elude them.

There are two classes of men, sir, in Congress, of very differ-
ent views : one attached to State, the other to Continental
politics. The last have been strenuous advocates for funding the
public debt upon solid securities ; the former have given every
opposition in their power ; and have only been dragged into the
measures which are now near being adopted, by the clamors of
the army and other public creditors.

The advocates for Continental funds, have blended the inter-
ests of the army with other creditors, from a conviction, that no
funds, for partial purposes, will go through those States to
whose citizens the United States are largely indebted ; or if they
should be carried through, from impressions of the moment,
would have the necessary stability : for the influence of those
unprovided for, would always militate against a provision for
others, in exclusion of them. It is in vain to tell men, who
have parted with a large part of their property on the public
faith, that the services of the army are entitled to a preference :
they would reason from their interest and their feelings : these
would tell them, that they had as great a title as any other class
of the community to public justice ; and that while this was
denied to them, it would be imreasonable to make them bear
their part of a burthen for the benefit of others. This is the
way they would reason ; and as their influence in some of the
States was considerable, they would have been able to prevent
any partial provision.

But the question was not merely how to do justice to the
creditors, but how to restore public credit. Taxation, in this
country, it was found, would not supply a sixth part of the
public necessities. The loans in Europe were far short of the
balance, and the prospect every day diminishing; the Court of
France telling us, in plain terms, she could not even do as much
as she had done ; individuals in Holland, and every where else,

^r. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 35Y

refusing to part with their money, on the precarious tenure of
the mere faith of this country, without any pledge for the pay-
ment either of principal or interest.

In this situation what was to be done ? It was essential to
our cause, that vigorous efforts should be made to restore public
credit ; it was necessary to combine all the motives to this end,
that could operate upon difierent descriptions of persons in the
different States : the necessities and discontents of the army pre-
sented themselves as a powerful engine.

But, sir, these gentlemen would be puzzled to support their
insinuations by a single fact. It was, indeed, proposed to appro-
priate the intended impost on trade to the army debt ; and, what
was extraordinary, by gentlemen who had expressed their dis-
like to the principle of the fund. I acknowledge I was one that
opposed this, for the reasons already assigned, and for these
additional ones : That was the fund on which we most counted ;
to obtain further loans in Europe, it was necessary we should
have a fund sufficient to pay the interest of what had been
borrowed, and what was to be borrowed. The truth was, these
people, in this instance, wanted to play off the army against the
funding system.

As to Mr. Morris, I will give your Excellency a true expla-
nation of his conduct. He had been for some time pressing
Congress to endeavor to obtain funds, and had found a great
backwardness in the business. He found the taxes unproductive
in the different States ; he found the loans, in Europe, making a
very slow progress ; he found himself pressed on all hands for
supplies ; he found himself, in short, reduced to this alternative,
either of making engagements which he could not fulfil, or de-
claring his resignation in case funds were not established by a
given time. Had he followed the first course, the bubble must
soon have burst; he must have sacrificed his credit and his
character: and public credit, already in a ruinous condition,
would have lost its last support.

He wisely judged it better to resign : this miglit increase the
embarrassments of the moment ; but the necessity of the case, it
was to be hoped, would produce the proper measures ; and he

358 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t.-26.

miglit then resume the direction of the machine with advantage
and success.

He also had some hope that his resignation Avould prove a
stimulus to Congress.

He was, however, ill advised in the publication of his letters
of resignation. This was an imprudent step, and has given a
handle to his personal enemies, who, by playing upon the
passions of others, have drawn some well-meaning men into the
cry against him. But Mr. Morris certainly deserves a great
deal from his country. I believe no man in this country, but
himself, could have kept the money machine agoing during the
period he has been in ofiice. From every thing that appears,
his administration has been upright as well as able.

The truth is, the old leaven of Deane and Lee, is, at this day,
working against Mr. Morris. He happened, in that dispute, to
have been on the side of Deane ; and certain men can never
forgive him. A man whom I once esteemed, and whom I will
rather suppose diqxd than wicked, is the second actor in this
business.

The matter, with respect to the army, which has occasioned
most altercation in Congress, and most dissatisfaction in the
army, has been the half pay. The opinions on this head have
been two : one party was for referring the several lines to their
States, to make such commutation as they should think proper ;
the other, for making the commutation by Congress, and funding
it on Continental security. I was of this last opinion ; and so
were all those who will be represented as having made use of
the army as puppets. Our principal reasons were. Firstly: By
referring the lines to their respective States, those which were
opposed to the half pay, would have taken advantage of the
ofi&cers' necessities, to make the commutation far short of an
equivalent. Secondly : The inequality Avhicli would have arisen
in the different States when the ofdcers came to compare (as has
happened in other cases), would have been a new source of dis-
content. Thirdly: Such a reference was a continuance of the
old wretched State system, by which the ties between Congress
and the army have been nearly dissolved; by which the re-

jet.26.] correspondence. 359

sources of tlie States have been diverted from the common trea-
sury, and wasted; a system wHich your Excellency has often
justly reprobated.

I have gone into these details, to give you a just idea of the
parties in Congress. I assure you, upon my honor, sir, I have
given you a candid state of facts, to the best of my judgment.
The men against whom the suspicions you mention must be
directed, are, in general, the most sensible, the most liberal, the
most independent, and the most respectable characters in our
body, as well as the most unequivocal friends to the army. In
a word, they are the men who think cpntinentally.
I have the honor to be,

With sincere respect and esteem.
Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S, I am chairman of a committee for peace arrange-
ments. We shall ask your Excellency's opinion at large, on a
proper military peace establishment. I will jnst hint to your
Excellency, that our prejudices will make us wish to keep up as
few troops as possible.

We this moment learn, an officer is arrived from Sir Guy
Carleton with dispatches ; probably official accounts of peace.

A. H.

To His Excellency General Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, April 15, 1783.

Sir:

There are two resolutions passed relative to the restoration
of the British prisoners, and to making arrangements for the sur-
render of the posts in the possession of the British troops ; the
first of which is to be transacted by you in conjunction with the

360 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 26.

Secretary at War ; tlie latter by yourself alone. I will explain
to you some doubts which have arisen in Congress, with regard
to the true construction of the jDro visional treaty ; which may be
of use to you in transacting the buiness above-mentioned.

The sixth article declares, that there shall be no future con-
fiscations, etc., after the ratification of the Treaty in America ; and
the seventh article makes the surrender of prisoners, evacuation of
posts, cessation of hostilities, etc., to depend on that event, to
wit, the ratification of the treaty in America.

Now the doubt is, whether the treaty means the provisional
treaty already concluded^ or the definitive treaty to he concluded.
The last construction is most agreeable to the letter of the pro-
visional articles ; the former, most agreeable to the usual practice
of nations : for hostilities commonly cease on the ratification of
the preliminary treaty.

There is a great diversity of opinion in Congress. It will be,
in my opinion, advisable, at the same time that we do not com-
municate our doubts to the British, to extract their sense of the
matter from them.

This may be done by asking them, at what periods they are
willing to stipulate the surrender of posts ; at the same time that
they are asked, in what manner it will be the most convenient to
them to receive the prisoners.

If they postpone the evacuation of the different posts to the
definitive treaty, we shall then be justified in doing the same
with respect to prisoners. The question will then arise. Whether,
on principles of humanity, economy, and liberality, we ought
not to restore the prisoners, at all events, without delay ? Much
may be said on both sides. I doubt the expedience of a total
restoration of prisoners, till they are willing to fix the epochs at
which they will take leave of us. It will add considerably to
their strength ; and accidents, though improbable, may happen.

I confess, however, I am not clear in my opinion.
I have the honor to be,

Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 361

P. S. The provisional or preliminary treaty, is ratified by

us — for tlie greater caution.

A. H.
To Ilis Excellency General Washington,

WASHINGTON" TO HAMILTON.

Newburgh, April 16, 1783.

Dear Sir :

My last letter to you was written in a hurry, when I was
fatigued by the more public, yet confidential, letter, which (with
several others) accompanied it. Possibly, I did not, on that
occasion, express myself (in what I intended as a hint) with so
much perspicuity as I ought : possibly, too, what I then dropped,
might have conveyed more than I intended ; for I do not, at this
time, recollect the force of my expression.

My meaning, however, was only to inform, that there were
different sentiments in the army, as well as in Congress, respect-
ing Continental and State funds: some wishing to be thrown
upon their respective States, rather than the Continent at large,
for payment ; and that, if an idea should prevail, generally, that
Congress, or part of its members, or ministers, bent upon the
latter, should delay doing them justice, or hazard it in pursuit
of their favorite object; it might create such divisions in the
army, as would weaken, rather than strengthen, the hands of
those who were disposed to support Continental measures ; and
might tend to defeat the end they themselves had in view by
endeavoring to involve the army.

For these reasons I said, or meant to say, the army was a
dangerous engine to work with, as it might be made to cut
both ways ; and, considering the sufferings of it, would, more
than probably, throw its weight into that scale which seemed
most likely to preponderate towards its immediate relief, without
looking forward (under the pressure of present wants) to future
consequences with the eyes of politicians. In this light, also,

362 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

I meant to apply my observations to Mr. Morris, to whom, or

rather to Mr. G M , is ascribed, in a great degree, the

groundwork of the superstructure which was intended to be
raised in the army by the anonymous addresses.

That no man can be more opposed to State funds and local
prejudices than myself, the whole tenor of my conduct has been
one continual evidence of No man, perhaps, has had better
opportunities to see, and to feel, the pernicious tendency of the
latter than I have; and I endeavor (I hope not altogether
ineffectually) to inculcate them upon the ofl&cers of the army,
upon all proper occasions : but their feelings are to be attended
to and soothed ; and they assured, that if Continental funds can-
not be established, they will be recommended to their respective
States for payment. Justice must be done them.

I should do injustice to reports, and what I believe to be the
opinion of the army, were I not to inform you, that they con-
sider you as a friend, zealous to serve them, and one who has
espoused their interests in Congress, upon every proper occasion.
It is to be wished, as I observed in my letter to Colonel Bland,
that Congress would send a committee to the army with pleni-
potentiary powers. The matters requested of me, in your letter
of the , as chairman of a committee, and many other

things, might then be brought to a close, with more despatch,
and in a happier manner, than it is likely they will be by an
intercourse of letters at the distance of one hundred and fifty
miles: which takes our Expresses, a, week, at least, to go and
come. At this moment, being without any instructions from
Congress, I am under great embarrassment with respect to the
soldiers for the war ; and shall be obliged, more than probably,
from the necessity of the case, to exercise my own judgment
without waiting for orders, as to the discharge of them. If I
should adopt measures which events may aj)prove, all will be
well. If otherwise. Why and by what authority did you do so ?

How far a strong recommendation from Congress, to observe
all the Articles of Peace, as well as the , may imply a

suspicion of good faith in the people of this countiy, I pretend
not to judge: but I am much mistaken, if something of the kind

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 363

will not be found wanting ; as I already perceive a disposition

to carp at, and to elude, such parts of the treaty as affect tlieir

different interests ; altliough you do not find a man, who, when

pushed, will not acknowledge, that, upon the tvhok, it is a more

advantageous Peace than we could possibly have expected.

I am, dear Sir,

With great esteem and regard.

Your most obedient servant,

G. Washington.
To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Newburgh, April 22, 1783.

Dear Sir:

I did not receive your letter of the fifteenth, till after my
return from Eingwood, where I had a meeting with the Sec-
retary at War, for the purpose of making arrangements for the
release of our prisoners, agreeably to the resolve of Congress of
the fifteenth instant.

Finding a diversity of opinion respecting the treaty, and the
line of conduct we ought to observe with the prisoners, I re-
quested, in precise terms, to know from General Lincoln (before
I entered on the business), whether we were to exercise our own
judgment with respect to the time, as well as the onode, of releas-
ing them ; or were to be confined to the latter : being informed
that we had no option in the first, Congress wishing to be eased
of the expense as soon as possible, I acted solely on that ground.

At the same timf , I scruple not to confess to you, that if this
measure was not dictated by necessity, it is, in my opinion, an
impolitic one ; as we place ourselves in the power of the British,
before the treaty is definitive. The manner in which Peace was
first announced, and the subsequent declarations of it, have led
the country and army into a belief, that it was final. The ratifi-
cation of the preliminary articles, on the third of February, so

364 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

far confirmed this, that one consequence resulting from it, is, the
soldiers for the war, conceive the term of their services has actu-
ally expired ; and I believe it is not in the power of Congress, or
their officers, to hold them much, if any, longer ; for we are ob-
liged, at this moment, to increase our guards, to prevent rioting,
and the insults which the officers meet with, in attempting to
hold them to their duty. The proportion of these men, amount
to seven-elevenths of this army : these we shall lose at the mo-
ment the British army will receive, by their prisoners, an aug-
mentation of five or six thousand men.

It is not for me to investigate the causes which induced this
measure ; nor the policy of those letters (from authority) which
gave the ton to the present sentiment ; but since they have been
adopted, we ought, in my opinion, to put a good face upon mat-
ters ; and, by a liberal conduct throughout, on our part (freed
from appearances of distrust) try if we cannot excite similar dis-
positions on theirs. Indeed, circumstanced as things noto are,
I wish, most fervently, that all the troops which are not retained
for a Peace Establishment, were to be discharged immediately,
or such of them, at least, as do not incline to await the settlement
of their accounts. If they continue here, their claims, I can
plainly perceive, will increase; and our perplexities multiply.
A petition is this moment handed to me, from the non-commis-
sioned officers of the Connecticut line, soliciting half pay. It is
well drawn, I am told, but I did not read it. I sent it back,
without appearing to understand the contents, because it did not
come through the channel of their officers. This may be fol-
lowed by others : and I mention it, to show the necessity, the
absolute necessity, of discharging the Warsmen as soon as pos-
sible.

I have taken much pains to support Mr. Morris's administra-
tion in the army ; and, in proportion to its numbers, I believe he
had not more friends any where : but if he will neither adopt the
mode which has been suggested, point out any other, nor show
cause why the first is either impracticable or impolitic (I have
heard he objects to it), they will certainly attribute their disap-
pointment to a lukewarmness in him, or some design incompa-

.Et. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 365

tible witli their interests. And here, my dear Colonel Hamilton,
let me assure you, that it would not be more difficult to still the
raging billows in a tempestuous gale, than to convince the offi-
cers of this army, of the justice, or polic}^, of paying men, in civil
offices, full wages, when they cannot obtain a sixtieth part of their
dues,

I am not unapprised of the arguments which are made use of,
upon this occasion, to discriminate the cases : but they really are
futile ; and may be summed up in this : that though both are
contending for the same rights, and expect equal benefits, yet,
both cannot submit to the same inconveniences to obtain them :
otherwise, to adopt the language of simplicity and plainness, a
ration of salt pork, with or without pease, as the case often is,
would support the one as well as the other ; and, in such a struo--
gle as ours, would, in my opinion, be alike honorable in both.

My anxiety to get home, increases with the prospect of it.
But when is it to happen ? I have not heard that Congress have
yet had under consideration, the lands, and other gratuities,
which, at different periods of the war, have been promised to the
army. Do not these things evince the necessity of a committee's
repairing to camp, in order to arrange and adjust matters with-
out spending time in a tedious exchange of letters? Unless
something of this kind is adopted, business will be delayed, and
expenses accumulated; or the army will break up in disorder,
go home enraged, complaining of injustice, and committing enor-
mities on the innocent inhabitants in every direction.

I write to you unreservedly. If, therefore, contrary to my
apprehension, all these matters are in a proper train, and Mr.
Morris has devised means to give the army three months' pay,
you will, I am persuaded, excuse my precipitancy and solicitude,
by ascribing it to an earnest wish to see the war happily and ho-
norably terminated ; to my anxious desire of enjoying some re-
pose ; and the necessity of my paying a little attention to my
private concerns, which have suliered considerably in eight
years' absence.

M'Henry, expressing, in a letter I have lately received from
him, a wish to be appointed official Secretary to the Court of

366 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

Versailles, or London, I have, by this opportunity, written to
Mr. Livingston, and Mr. Madison, speaking of him in warm
terms; and wish him success with all my heart.
I am, dear Sir,

With great esteem and regard,

Your most obedient servant,

Gr. Washington".
Colonel Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO GOV. CLINTON.

Philadelphia, May 14, 1783.

Sir:

The President of Congress will of course have transmitted to
your Excellency, the plan lately adopted by Congress for fund-
ing the public debt. This plan was framed to accommodate it
to the objections of some of the States; but this spirit of accom-
modation will only serve to render it less efficient, without ma-
king it more palatable. The opposition of the State of Rhode
Island, for instance, is chiefly founded upon these two considera-
tions : the merchants are opposed to any revenue from trade ;
and the State, depending almost wholly on commerce, wants to
have credit for the amount of the duties.

Persuaded that the plan now proposed will have little more
chance of success than a better one ; and that, if agreed to by all
the States, it will, in a great measure, fail in the execution, it re-
ceived my negative. My principal objections were.

Firstly: That it does not designate the funds (except the im-
post) on which the whole interest is to arise ; and by which (se-
lecting the capital articles of visible proj)erty) the collection
would have been easy, the funds productive, and necessarily in-
creasing with the increase of the country.

Secondly : That the duration of the funds is not coextensive
with the debt, but limited to twenty -five years ; though there is

JEt. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 367

a moral certainty, that, in tliat period, the principal will not, by
the present provision, be fairly extinguished.

Thirdly: That the nomination and appointment of the col-
lectors of the revenue are to reside in each State, instead of, at
least the nomination, being in the United States; the conse-
quence of which will be, that those States which have little inte-
rest in the funds, by having a small share of the public debt due
to their own citizens, will take care to appoint such persons as
are least likely to collect the revenue.

The evils resulting from these defects, will be, that in many
instances the objects of the revenues will be improperly chosen,
and will consist of a multitude of little articles, which Avill, on
experiment, prove insufficient ; that for want of a vigorous col-
lection in each State, the revenue will be unproductive in many,
and will fall chiefly upon those States which are governed by
most liberal principles ; that for want of an adequate security, the
evidences of the public debt, will not be transferable for any
thing like their value ; that this not admitting an incorporation
of the creditors in the nature of Banks, will deprive the public of
the benefit of an increased circulation, and of course will disable
the people from paying the taxes for want of a sufficient medium.

I shall be happy to be mistaken in my apprehensions ; but
the experiment must determine.

I hope our State will consent to the plan proposed ; because
it is her Interest, at all events, to promote the payment of the
public debt on Continental funds (indej^endent of the general
considerations of union and propriety).

I am much mistaken if the debts due from the United States
to the citizens of the State of New- York, do not considerably
exceed its proportion of the necessary funds : of course it has
an immediate interest that there should be a Continental pro-
vision for them. But there are superior motives that ought to
operate in every State; the obligations of national faith, honor,
and reputation.

Individuals have been already too long sacrificed to public
convenience. It will be shocking, and indeed an eternal re-
proach to this country, if we begin the peaceable enjoyment of

368 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

our independence by a violation of all tlie principles of honesty
and true policy.

It is worthy of remark, that at least four-fifths of the do-
mestic debt, are due to the citizens of the States (from Penn-
sylvania inclusively) northward.

I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. It is particularly interesting that the State should
have a representation here. Not only many matters are de-
pending which require a full representation in Congress (and
there is now a thin one), but those matters are of a nature so
particularly interesting to our State, that we ought not to be
without a voice in them. I wish two other gentlemen of the
delegation may appear as soon as possible ; for it would be very
injurious for me to remain much longer here. Having no future
views in public life, I owe it to myself, without delay to enter
upon the care of my private concerns in earnest.

To His Excellency Governor Clinton.

A. H.

HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.

Philadelphia, June 1, 1783.

Sir:

In my last letter to your Excellency, I took occasion to
mention, that it was of great importance to the State, at this
time, to have a representation here, as points in which, by its
present situation, it is j^articularly interested, are daily, and will
be daily, agitated.

It is also of importance, at this moment, to the United States ;
(not only from general considerations, but) because we have a
very thin representation in Congress, and are frequently unable
to transact any of those matters which require nine States. I

^T.26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 309

wish your Excellency would urge a couple of gentlemen to
come on, as it becomes higlily inconvenient to me to remain
here, and as I have staid the full time to be expected.

I observe, with great regret, the intemperate proceedings
among the j^eople in different parts of the State, in violation of
a treaty, the faithful observance of which so deeply interests the
United States.

Surely, the State of New- York, with its capital and its fron-
tier posts (on which its important fur trade depends) in the hands
of the British troops, ought to take care that nothing is done to
furnish a pretext on the other side, even for delaying, much less
for refusing, the execution of the treaty. We may imagine
that the situation of Great Britain puts her under a necessity,
at all events, of fulfilling her engagements, and cultivating the
good will of this country.

This is, no doubt, her true policy; but when we feel that
passion makes us depart from the dictates of reason ; when we
have seen that passion has had so much influence in the conduct
of the British Councils, in the whole course of the war ; when
we recollect, that those who govern them, are men like our-
selves, and alike subject to passions and resentments ; when we
reflect, also, that all the great men in England are not united in
the liberal scheme of policy with respect to this country, and
that in the anarchy which prevails, there is no knowing to
whom the reins of government may be committed; when we
recollect how little in a condition we are, to enforce a compli-
ance with our claims ; we ought, certainly, to be cautious in
what manner we act, especially when we, in particular, have so
much at stake ; and should not openly provoke a breach of faith
on the other side, by setting the example.

An important distinction is not sufficiently attended to. The
fifth article is recommendatory ; the sixth positive. There is no
option, on the part of the particular States, as to any future con-
fiscations, prosecutions, or injuries of any kind, to person, liberty,
or property, on account of any thing done in the war. It is
matter of discretion in the States, whether they will comply
with the recommendations contained in the fifth article ; but no

VOL. I. 24

370 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

part of the sixth can be departed from by them, witliout a direct
breach, of pubHc faith, and of the Confederation. The power of
making treaties is exchisivelj lodged in Congress. That power
includes whatever is essential to the termination of the war, and
to the preservation of the general safety. Indemnity to indi-
viduals in similar cases, is a usual stipulation in treaties of peace,
of which many precedents are to be produced.

Should it be said, that the associations of the people, without
legal authority, do not amount to a breach of the public faith ;
the answer is. If the government does not repress them, and
prevent their having effect, it is as much a breach, as a formal
refusal to comply on its part. In the eye of a foreign nation, if
our engagements are broken, it is of no moment whether it is
for the want of good intention in the government, or for want
of power to restrain its subjects.

Suppose a violence committed by an American vessel on the
vessel of another nation, upon the high seas, and after complaint
made there is no redress given : Is not this a hostility against
the injured nation which will justify reprisals ?

But if I am not misinformed, there are violations going on
in form of law. I am told that indictments continue to be
brought under the former confiscation laws : A palpable in-
fraction, if true, of the sixth article of the treaty ; to which an
immediate stop ought, no doubt, to be put.

It has been said by some men, that the operation of this
treaty is suspended till the definitive treaty : A plain subterfuge.
Whatever is clearly expressed in the provisional or preliminary
treaty, is as binding from the moment it is made, as the definitive
treaty ; which, in fact, only developes, explains and fixes, more
precisely, what may have been too generally expressed in the
former.

Suppose the British should now send away, not only the
negroes, but all other property, and all the public records in
their possession belonging to us, on the pretence above stated :
should we not justly accuse them with breaking faith ? Is this
not already done in the case of the negroes who have been
carried away, though founded upon a very different principle, a

iET. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 371

doubtful construction of tlie treaty, not a denial of its imme-
diate operation ?

In fine, Is it our interest to advance this doctrine, and to
countenance the position, that nothing is binding till the defi-
nitive treaty, when there are examples of years intervening be-
tween the preliminary and definitive treaties ?

Sir Guy Carleton, in his correspondence, has appeared to
consider the treaty as immediately obligatory: and it has been
the policy which I have pursued, to promote the same idea.

I am not, indeed, apprehensive of a renewal of the war, for
peace is necessary to Great Britain. I think it also most pro-
bable, her disposition to conciliate this country will outweigh
the resentments which a breach of our engagements is calculated
to inspire. But with a treaty which has exceeded the hopes of
the most sanguine ; which, in the articles of boundary and the
fisheries, is even better than we asked; circumstanced, too, as
this country is, with respect to the means of making war; I
think it the height of imprudence to run any risk. Great
Britain, without recommencing hostilities, may evade parts of
the treaty. She may keep possession of the frontier posts ; she
may obstruct the free enjoyment of the fisheries; she may be
indisposed to such extensive concessions, in matters of com-
merce, as it is our interest to aim at. In all this she would find
no opposition from any foreign power : and we are not in a con-
dition to oblige her to any thing. If we imagine that France,
obviously embarrassed herself, in her finances, would renew the
war to oblige Great Britain to the restoration of frontier posts ;
or to a compliance with the stipulations respecting the fisheries
(especially after a manifest breach of the treaty on our part) ;
Ave speculate much at random. Observations might be made on
the last article, which would prove, that it is not the policy of
France to support our interest there. Are we prepared, for the
mere gratification of our resentments, to put those great national
objects to the hazard ; to leave our western frontier in a state of
insecurity ; to relinquish the fur trade ; and to abridge our pre-
tensions to the fisheries ? Do Ave think national character so
light a thing, as to be willing to sacrifice the public faith to indi-
vidual animosity ?

372 • HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

Let the case be fairly stated : Great Britain and America,
tAvo independent nations, at war. The former in possession of
considerable posts and districts of territory, belonging to the lat-
ter ; and also of the means of obstructing certain commercial ad-
vantages in which it is deeply interested.

But it is not uncommon, in treaties of peace, for the zdijyossi-
detis to take place. Great Britain, however, in the present in-
stance, stipulates to restore all our posts and territories in her
possession. She even adds an extent, not within our original
claims, more than a compensation for a small part ceded in ano-
ther quarter. She agrees to re-admit us to a participation in the
fisheries. What equivalent do we give for this ? Congress are
to recommend the restoration of property to those who have ad-
hered to her ; and expressly engage, that no future injury shall
be done them, in person, liberty, or property. This is the sole
condition, on our part, where there is not an immediate recipro-
city (the recovery of debts, and liberation of prisoners, being
mutual ; the former, indeed, only declaring what the rights of
private faith, which all civilized nations hold sacred, would have
declared without it), and stands as the single equivalent for all
the restitutions and concessions to be made by Great Britain.
Will it be honest in us to violate this condition, or will it be
prudent to put it in competition with all the important matters
to be performed on the other side ?

Will foreign nations be willing to undertake any thing with
us, or for us, when they find that the nature of our governments
will allow no dependence to be placed upon our engagements ?
I have omitted saying any thing of the impolicy of inducing, by
our severity, a great number of useful citizens, whose situations
do not make them a proper object of resentment, to abandon the
country, to form settlements that will hereafter become our ri-
vals, animated with a hatred to us, which will descend to their
posterity. Nothing, however, can be more unwise than to con-
tribute, as we are doing, to people the shores and wilderness of
Nova Scotia ; a colony which, by its position, will become a com-
petitor with us, among other things, in that branch of commerce
on which our navigation and navy will essentially depend: I

^T.26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 373

mean tlie fisheries ; in wliicli, I liave no doubt, the State of New
York will, hereafter, have a considerable share.

To your Excellency I freely deliver my sentiments, because
I am persuaded you cannot be a stranger to the force of these
considerations. I fear not even -to hazard them to the justice
and good sense of those whom I have the honor to represent. I
esteem it my duty to do it, because the question is important to
the interests of the State, in its relation to the United States.

Those who consult only their passions, might choose to con-
strue what I say, as too favorable to a set of men who have been
the enemies of the public liberty : but those for whose esteem I
am most concerned, will acquit me of any personal considera-
tions ; and will perceive that I only urge the cause of national
honor, safety, and advantage. We have assumed an independent
station : we ought to feel, and to act, in a manner consistent
with the dignity of that station.

I anxiously wish to see every prudent measure taken to pre-
vent those combinations which will certainly disgrace us, if they
do not involve us in other calamities. Whatever distinctions are
judged necessary to be made, in the cases of those persons who
have been in opposition to the common cause, let them be made
by legal authority, on a fair construction of the treaty, consistent
with national faith and national honor.

Your Excellency will have been informed, that Congress
have instructed General Washington to garrison the frontier
posts, when surrendered, with the three years' Continental troojDS.
This is more for the interest of the State, than to have them gar-
risoned at its particular expense : and I should wish that perma-
nent provision might be made on the same principle. I wait to
see whether any Continental peace establishment for garrisons,
etc., will take place, before I engage the consent of Congress to a
separate provision.

I cannot forbear adding a word on the subject of money. The
only reliance we now have for redeeming a large anticipation on
the public credit, already made, and making, for the benefit of
the army, is on the taxes coming in. The collection, hitherto, is
out of all proportion to the demand. It is of vast consequence, at

374 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

this juncture, that every thing possible should be done to forward
it. I forbear entering into details which would be very striking
upon this subject. I will only say, that unless there is a serious
exertion in the States, public credit must ere long receive another
shock very disagreeable in its consequences.
I have the honor to be.
With perfect respect.
Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

A. Hamiltoist.
To His Excellency Governor Clinton.

HAMILTON TO EEED.

1783.

Sir:

Having always entertained an esteem for you personally, I
could not, without reluctance, yield to impressions that might
weaken that sentiment : and it is with pain I find myself drawn,
by circumstances, to animadvert upon the late message from the
Executive Council to the Assembly of Pennsylvania relative to
the mutiny, in a manner which may seem to impeach the candor
of those who were the authors of it.

But it will be impossible for persons who have read the re-
port of the committee, and the message of the Council, however
inclined to make allowances for the force of involuntary bias,
not to conclude, that on one side or the other, the facts have been
wilfully discolored. I decline any attempt to set the public
opinion right upon this subject ; because, after all that can be
said, the judgments of men will eventually be determined by
personal and party prepossessions. So far as I am concerned,
I persuade myself those who are acquainted with me, will place
entire confidence in my fairness and veracity. I doubt not your
Excellency's friends will be equally partial to you, and those of
the Council to them. But though I should despair of rectifying
or fixing the public opinion, by an appeal to the pubhc ; and

iET.26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 3^5

though I have seen too much of the ridicule thrown upon such
appeals, from men in official stations, and of the ill effect they
have had upon the national character, not to be willing to sacri-
fice the desire of justifying myself to considerations of prudence
and propriety ; yet I cannot forbear indulging my feelings so
far as to enter into a few explanations with your Excellency ;
submitting the justness of them to the testimony of your own
mind.

As this is a mere private discussion, I address myself to your
Excellency in particular ; and the rather, as, from the style and
manner of the message, I take it for granted you had the prin-
cipal agency in it : and I shall consider, on the same grounds,
the notes in * paper of the *,

as a comment on the report of the committee by yourself, in aid
of the message,

I take up the matter individually, because I mean to treat
it on a private footing ; and because, though I do not acknow-
ledge any peculiar responsibility, it happened to be my lot, as
chairman, principally to conduct the conferences on the part
of the committee.

I regard the whole of this business as a most unfortunate
one ; in which, probably, none of the actors will acquire great
credit, I deplore it, as tending to interrupt the harmony be-
tween Congress and a respectable, a meritorious member of the
Union. Who were right, or who were wrong, is a question of
less importance, than how mutual irritations may be best healed.
Whatever revives, or continues, the former, is to be regretted.
I lament to be under an inducement to discuss circumstances
that relate to it in the remotest degree. Nothing but an attack
upon the ingenuousness of my conduct, could have called me to
it. Its prudence, either collectively or individually, would
patiently have been consigned to the lash of censure and criti-
cism, merited or unmerited.

Happily, in the present case, the members of the committee
have a strong ground, from Avhicli they cannot easily be forced.

* These blanks are in the mannscript.

376 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 26.

Apprehensive of misconception, I will not say of misrepresenta-
tion, thej tried to render it impossible by written documents.
The presumption, with impartial minds, cannot fail to be in favor
of that side which gave so decisive a proof of its disposition to
fairness, as to endeavor to put it out of its own power to misre-
present.

The professed scruples of the Council, cannot be admitted to
have any weight. Usage, and the plainest rules of propriety,
will dictate, that it never could have wounded the dignity, or
delicacy, of the executive of any State, to have given to a com-
mittee of Congress, appointed to confer on a subject of moment,
a written answer to a request in writing after j^revious explana-
tions. The foct stated speaks for itself The consequences
show, that the precaution of the committee was well judged;
and that it would have been well for the Council to have con-
curred.

In the present case it might be observed, that there was,
in the first instance, a written application from Congress to
the Council, in the customary form of resolutions : and though a
committee was authorized to confer and explain, a formal and
authentic answer might reasonably have been expected by Con-
gress ; and, when desired by the committee, should have been
understood as desired on their behalf

There is an awkwardness in reasoning upon self-evident posi-
tions; but as the Council have, by their conduct in the first
instance, and by their message since, put forward a doubt upon
the subject, and made it a point of importance, I shall be excused
for examining it a little further. On what could the objection of
the Council be founded ? They say it had been unusual. Ad-
mitting the fact, was the mere novelty of the thing a sufficient
reason against it ? If there was no apparent inconvenience in
making a new precedent ; if, on the contrary, there was a mani-
fest convenience in it ; ought not such a punctilio to have given
way to considerations of utility ?

Was it derogatory to the dignity of the Council? Surely, if
they communicate in writing with the executive servants of Con-
gress, even those in subordinate stations, as is the practice of

JEt.26.] correspondence. SVY

every day, and as is indispensable to the prosecution of public
business, tbey might, at less expense of dignity, j)ursue the same
mode with a part of that body itself.

The distinction taken by the Council, in their message to the
Assembly, respecting the responsibility of such executive ofl&cers,
as not applicable to a committee, if it amounts to any thing,
proves only this : That such officers ought, in prudence, to take
greater precautions for their own justification than a committee
of Congress need to do. It is not to be inferred, if a committee of
Congress, acting ministerially, think it expedient to use circum-
spection, that those with whom they are transacting business,
can, with propriety, refuse to join with them in that mode which
is best adapted to precision and certainty.

But, indeed, the ground of distinction is erroneous. A com-
mittee of Congress act in a ministerial capacity, and are there-
fore responsible to the body to which they belong, as well as the
servants of that body, though in a different manner. If it be
said they do not act ministerially, but stand in the place of Con-
gress ; then the Council, upon their own principles, ought to
have complied with their request.

To diminish the exceptionableness of their refusal, it is true,
as stated by the Council, that though they said they could not
condescend to do what the committee had asked ; yet they de-
clared themselves willing to grant an answer in writing, if Con-
gress should request it ; and that they proposed, that the com-
mittee should put their verbal, answer in writing, to be after-
wards perused and examined by them.

The answer of the committee, as I doubt not your Excellency
will recollect, was, as to the first point, that Congress in all prob-
ability would not make the request, having determined (as the
Council had been already informed) not to resume their delibe-
rations in the city, till effectual measures had been taken to sup-
press the mutiny ; and should they assemble, Avould naturally
feel a delicacy in requesting what had been denied to their com-
mittee. And as to the second point, that the Council having judged
it inexpedient to give a written answer, the committee would
content themselves with making the most accurate report in their

3T8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

power, relj'iug upon the confidence of tlie body to wliicli tliey
belonged, and iipon the candor of the Council.

Your Excellency is too good a judge of human nature, as well
as of the force of language, not to have perceived at the time, the
effect which the refusal of the Council had upon my mind. I
own it struck me, either as an uncandid reserve, or an unbecoming
stateliness ; and, in either supposition, a disrespect to the body of
which the committee were members.

Though nothing enters less into my temper than an inclina-
tion to fetter business by punctilio, after the Council had disco-
vered such overweening nicety, I should have thought it a de-
gradation to my of&cial character, to have consented to their pro-
posal.

The desire of self-justification is so natural, that I should not
have been surprised to have seen the transactions which are
the subject of the Council's message, receive a coloring favorable
to their purpose : but I did not expect to find material facts either
suppressed or denied.

The report made by the committee on the first interview with
the Council, was, I acknowledge, from memory, and therefore I
admit a possibility of error ; but, so far as my memory can be
relied on, the representation was just. And I am certain that
there is a mistake in the insinuation, that the circumstance of the
message sent to Congress by the Board of Sergeants, was not
mentioned at all to the Council ; for I have a note of it, taken
immediately after the first conference subsequent to the mutiny.
The affair, by the event of , having assumed a more

serious aspect, I kcjit a regular minute of the proceedings; a
summary of which, made up our report to Congress, and which I
shall annex, at large, to this letter for your Excellency's jDcrusal.

The message entirely omits the declaration of the Council,
that

and the note says, that the Council only declared, "That they
* This blank is in the manuscript.

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 379

could not be sure, tliat such another insult would produce those
exertions."* The difference in this article is of great impor-
tance. The declaration made so deep an impression at the time,
that almost the precise words remained in mj memory. They
were twice repeated, as well when we saw your Excellency alone,
in your own house, in the morning, as when you delivered to us,
in the Council chamber, the determination of the Council.

Mr. Ellsworthf , in half an hour afterwards, repeated them to
several members of Congress assembled at the President's house ;
and in a few hours from that time I committed them to writing.
I cannot suppose your Excellency's recollection fails you in this
particular ; and I must pointedly appeal to your candor.

To show the inaccuracy with which the report of the commit-
tee was composed, it is observed, in the notes with respect to that
part which relates to the commission given by the mutineers to
the officers whom they had chosen to represent them, that only
two hours had intervened between that event and the conference
with the Council ; and that it was very improbable the knowledge
of it could have so early reached the committee. It is added,
that none of the Council remembers to have heard a single syl-
lable respecting it, during the whole conference.

As to the argument drawn from the short interval between
the delivery of the commission and the conference, it will be suf-
ficient to say, that the committee held a constant communication
with General St. Clair, and that he kept a vigilant eye upon all
the motions of the mutineers ; that his access to them was easy ;
that the fact in question was a matter of immediate notoriety ;
that two hours were abundant time for a thing of that nature to
be conveyed from the barracks to General St, Clair's quarters ;
and that one of the committee had actually seen, and obtained
the intelligence from him, a little time before the interview with
the Council commenced.

It is much more extraordinary that the Council should have

* "The words, as reported by the committee to Congress, were, ' It,' i. e., the
arming of the citizens to suppress the mutineers, ' was not to be expected, merely
froiji a repetition of the insult which had happened.' " — Note by Col. Pickering.

t " Mr. Ellsworth was the other member of the committee. — T. P."

380 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

been apprised of it so late, than tliat the committee should have
known it so early. As to the memory of the Council, it is un-
fortunate it should have been so fallible as it is said to have been :
but I would rather suppose, "in the quick succession of circum-
stances," the matter had escaped recollection, than that my min-
utes, as well as my memory, should have deceived me. I well
recollect, also, that your Excellency, when it was mentioned, ac-
knowledged that it rather contradicted the pacific appearance
which the conduct of the troops, in other respects, wore.

These are the essential differences, in point of fact, between
the report of the committee, and the message of Council : the
whole complexion, indeed, of one, materially varies from the
other ; but the most common observer must have noticed, how
different an aspect the same facts will bear, differently dressed
and arranged. It was to avoid this, we proposed to reduce them
to writing: but as this has not been done, spectators must judge,
from the situation of the parties, and the conrse of the transac-
tions, which side has given the justest relation.

I cannot, however, forbear remarking, that I see expressions
of civility, on the part of the committee, making a figure in the
message, very different from their genuine intention ; being in-
troduced in a manner that gives them the air of concessions in
favor of the conduct of the Council. Your Excellency will cer-
tainly recollect, that the committee were very remote from a con-
currence in sentiment with the Council ; and though they did not
presume to judge of the disposition of the citizens, strongly
urged the expedience and necessity of calling out the militia, and
facility of employing them with success against an unofficered
and disorderly body of mutinous soldiers. It is true, also, that
they acknowledged the candor with which the Council exposed
to them, what they deemed the temper of their citizens, and
their own difficulties and embarrassments ; which were, no doubt,
delineated with great energy of language, and display of circum-
stances : but they certainly never admitted the candor of refu-
sing an answer in writing, which was a part of the business
transacted with the Council; nor did they tvithdravj, without
giving an intelligible intimation of their sense of this proceeding.

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 381

I was also surprised to see any part of the private and confi-
dential conversation I had with your Excellency, ushered into
the message from the Council ; and moulded into such a shape
as to imply, by an obvious construction, an approbation of their
reasons. Your Excellency will admit the following state of this
transaction to be a just one.

I waited upon the Council to correct a piece of information I
had given them respecting ammunition : but even this is mis-
stated, as will be seen by my minutes. Having done this, my
official business ended ; when I was taken aside by your Excel-
lency, and a conversation passed in declared confidence. You
informed me, that a meeting of the militia officers was then hold-
ing, and in consultation with the Council about eventual mea-
sures (in consequence, as I conjectured, of a communication to
you, the preceding evening, from the delegates of the State, of
the intention of Congress to remove from the city, in case they
did not receive satisfactory assurances of support). You added,
that you hoped nothing would be precipitated ; but that proper
allowances would be made for the situation of the Council.

I understood your observations with reference to the depart-
ure of Congress, and replied to this effect : That I viewed the
departure of Congress as a delicate measure, including conse-
quences important to the national character abroad, and critical
with respect to the State of Pennsylvania, and, in particular, the
city of Philadelphia ; that the triumph of a handful of mutinous
soldiers, permitted in a place which is considered as the capital
of America, to surround, and, in fact, imprison Congress, with-
out the least effort, on the part of the citizens, to uphold their
dignity and authority, so as to oblige them to remove from the
place which had been their residence during the Ee volution,
would, it was to be feared, be viewed at a distance, as a general
disaffection of the citizens to the Federal Government; might
discredit its negotiations, and affect the national interests : that,
at home, it might give a deep wound to the reputation of Penn-
sylvania ; might draw upon it the resentments of the other
States, and sow discord between Congress and the State ; that
the removal of Congress would probably bring the affair to a

382 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 26.

crisis ; and, by convincing tlie mutineers that extremities were
intended, would either intimidate tliem into a submission, or
determine them to immediate excesses ; that, impressed with
these considerations, and still hoping, notwithstanding some
appearances to the contrary, that the mutineers might be sincere
in their professions of submission, or that the Council, on further
examination, would find it in their power to act with vigor, I
had declined giving my assent to a report in writing, which
would necessarily be followed by the departure of Congress;
that though the committee had no discretion, by the powers
under which they acted, but were bound by the tenor of their
instructions, the moment they did not receive " satisfactory
assurances of prompt and adequate exertions, on the part of the
State, for supporting the public authority," to advise the adjourn-
ment of Congress to Trenton or Princeton ; and I therefore con-
sidered the delay of this advice as at their extreme peril ; yet, as
to myself, I should persist in it, till the result of the present con-
sultation with the militia of&cers, or till some new circumstance
should turn up, to explain the designs of the mutineers; and in
pursuing this line of conduct, I should counteract the sense of
some gentlemen, whose feelings upon the occasion were keen,
and the opinions of others, who thought the situation of Con-
gress, under the existing circumstances, extremely awkward,
precarious, and unjustifiable to their constituents.

Your Excellency approved my intention ; wished for time ;
and promised, if any new resolution should be taken, to give me
immediate notice of it.

The meeting of the militia ofiicers dissolved. I heard nothing
from your Excellency. General St. Clair, about two in the
afternoon, informed the committee, that the ofiicers appointed by
the soldiers to manage their business, had, in the first instance,
refused to give him an account of their transactions ; the which
was only extracted from them by a peremptory demand. He
mentioned to us the instructions they had received from the
soldiers, which contained, faint and affected concessions, mixed
with new and inadmissible claims.

The whole affair wore the complexion of collusion between

Mt.26.] ' CORRESPONDENCE. 383

the officers of tlic committee and tlie soldiery ; and of a mere
amusement on tlieir jDart, till they could gain fresh strength and
execute their project, whatever it might be, with greater advan-
tage.

This behavior of the officers gave the affair a new and more
serious aspect, and overcame my opposition to the report. Mr.
Peters, on hearing the relation of General St. Clair, declared, at
once, that he thought the committee had then no alternative ; at
least, what he said was understood in this sense by General St.
Clair, Mr. Ellsworth, and myself. If I am not much mistaken,
General St. Clair also expressed his opinion that Congress were
unsafe in the city.

The ideas I suggested to your Excellency, in the conversa-
tion I have mentioned, were substantially expressed to several
members of Congress as the motives of my delay ; and particu-
larly, I recollect, to Mr, Madison, with these observations in
addition : That though I was fully convinced Congress, under
an immediate view of circumstances, would, in reality, be justi-
fied in withdrawing from a place where such an outrage to gov-
ernment had been with impunity perpetrated, by a body of
armed mutineers, still, for several days, in complete command of
the city, and where either the feebleness of public councils, or the
indisposition of the citizens, afforded no assurance of protection
and su]3port; yet, as the opinions of men would be governed by
events, and as the most probable event was, that the removal of
Congress, announcing decisive measures of coercion to the sol-
diery, would awe them into submission, there was great danger
that the reputation of Congress would suffer by the easy termina-
tion of the business ; and that they Avould be accused of levity,
timidity, or rashness.

Though not within the scope of my original intention, I will
indulge a few additional reflections on this subject. I am sensi-
ble that the Council, in some respects, stand upon advantageous
ground in this discussion. Congress left the city, because they
had no forces at hand, no jurisdiction over the militia, ":nd no
assurances of effectual support from those who had. The Coun-
cil, as the Executive of the State, were necessitated to remain

384 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 26.

on the spot. Soon after Congress removed, the mutineers were
deserted by their leaders, and surrendered at discretion.

The multitude will be very apt to conclude, that the affair
was of trilling consequence ; that it vanished under its own in.
significance ; that Congress took up the matter in too high a
tone of authority ; that they discovered a prudish nicety and
irritability about their own dignity : that Council were more
temperate, more humane, and possessed of greater foresight.

The bias in favor of an injured army ; the propensity of the
human mind to lean to the speciousness of professed humanity,
rather than to the necessary harshness of authority ; the vague
and imperfect notions of what is due to public authority, in an
infant popular government ; and the insinuating plausibility of
a well-constructed message ; will all contribute to that conclu-
sion.

But let us suppose an impartial man of sense, well acquainted
with facts, to form an argument upon the subject. It appears to
me, he might naturally fall into this train of combination.

It is a well known fact, that, from the necessities of the war,
or the delinquencies of the several States, Congress were not
enabled to comply with their engagements to the army, which,
after a glorious and successful struggle for their country, much
suffering, exemplary patience, and signal desert, they were com-
pelled, by the irresistible dictates of an empty treasury and a
ruined credit, to disband, after having given strong indications
of their discontent, and resentment of the public neglect. A
large part of the army suffer themselves to be patiently dis-
missed ; a particular corps of four or five hundred men, sta-
tioned in the place where Congress reside, refuse to accept their
discharges but on certain specified conditions.

They even go further, and, stimulated by their injuries, or
encouraged and misled by designing persons, are emboldened
to send a threatening message to Congress, declaring to them,
that unless they would do them justice immediately, they would
find means of redress for themselves. Measures are indirectly
taken to appease this disorder, and give the discontented soldiers

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 385

as mucli satisfaction as the situation of things will permit.
Shortly after, accounts are received, that another corps, at
miles distance, have also mutinied ; and that a part of them, to
the number of about eighty men, are on their march to join
those who had already discovered so refractory a disposition.
A committee of Congress is immediately appointed to confer
with the Executive of the State, on the measures proper to be
pursued in this exigency. That committee, in the first instance,
suggest to the Council, the expedience of calling out a body of
militia, to intercept the detachment of mutineers on its march,
and represent the danger of the progress of the spirit of mutiny,
and of future outrages, should those on their march be suffered,
without molestation, to join a more numerous corps in the same
temper with themselves.

The Council urge a variety of difficulties : the shortness of
the time to collect the militia before the mutineers would arrive ;
the reluctance with which the citizens would obey a call against
men whom they consider as meritorious, and injured, and the
like. The committee, perceiving the unwillingness of the Coun-
cil to employ the militia, desist from pressing, and recur to ex-
pedients. The day after, the mutineers march in triumph into
the city, and unite themselves with those who are already there ;
and the following day, the whole body assemble in arms, throw
off all obedience to their ofiicers, and, in open defiance of gov-
ernment, march to the place which is the usual seat of Congress
and the Council of the State, while both are actually sitting ;
surround it with guards, and send a message to the Council, de-
manding authority to appoint, themselves, ofiicers to command
them, with absolute discretion to take such measures as those
ofl&cers should think proper, to redress their grievances ; accom-
panied with a threat, that if there was not a compliance in
twenty minutes, they would let in an injured soldiery upon
them, and abide the consequence.

The members of Congress who were at the time assembled,

request General St. Clair, who happened to be present, to take

such measures as he should judge expedient, without committing

the honor of government, to divert the storm, and induce the

VOL. I. 25

386 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [yEx. 26.

troops to return to their quarters without perpetrating acts of
violence. General St. Clair, in concert with the Council, grants
the mutineers permission to elect, out of officers then, or for-
merly, in commission, such as they should confide in, to repre-
sent their grievances to the Council, with a promise, that the
Council would confer with the persons elected for that purpose.
Having obtained this promise, the mutineers return to their
quarters, in military parade, and continue in open defiance of
government.

The concession made was a happy compromise between an
attention to dignity, and a prudent regard to safety.

Men who had dared to carry their insolence to such an ex-
treme, and who saw no opposition to their outrages, were not to
be expected to retreat Avithout an appearance, at least, of grati-
fying their demands. The slightest accident was sufficient to
prompt men, in such a temper and situation, to tragical excesses.

But however it might become the delicacy of government not
to depart from the promise it had given, it was its duty to pro-
vide effectually against a repetition of such outrages ; and to
put itself in a situation to give, instead of receiving, the law ;
and to manifest that its compliance was not the effect of neces-
sity, but of choice.

This was not to be considered as the disorderly riot of an
unarmed mob, but as the deliberate mutiny of an incensed
soldiery, carried to the utmost jDoint of outrage short of assassi-
nation. The licentiousness of an army is to be dreaded in every
government; but, in a republic, it is more particularly to be
restrained ; and when directed against the civil authority, to be
checked with energy, and punished with severity. The merits
and sufferings of the troops might be a proper motive for miti-
gating punishment, when it was in the power of the government
to inflict it ; but it was no reason for relaxing in the measures
necessary to put itself in that situation. Its authority was first
to be vindicated, and then its clemency to be displayed.

The rights of government are as essential to be defended, as
the rights of individuals. The security of the one is insepara-
ble from that of the other. And, indeed, in every new govern-

^T.26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 387

ment, especially of tlie popular kind, tlic great clanger is, that
public authority will not be sufficiently respected.

But upon this occasion, there were more particular reasons
for decision.

Congress knew there were, within two or three days' march
of the city, a more considerable body of the same corps, part of
which had mutinied and come to town, and had been the chief
actors in the late disorder ; that those men had, with difficulty,
been kept, by the exertions of their officers, from joining the in-
surgents in the first instance ; that there was another corps in
their neighborhood which, a little time before, had also disco-
vered symptoms of mutiny ; that a considerable part of the same
line which were in mutiny in town, was every moment expected
to arrive from the southward, and, there was the greatest reason
to conclude, would be infected with the same spirit, on their
arrival, as had presently happened in the case of a small detach-
ment which had joined a few days before; that there were, be-
sides, large numbers of disbanded soldiers, scattered through the
country, in want, and who had not yet had time to settle doAvn
to any occupation, and exchange their military for private habits ;
that some of these were really coming in, and adding themselves
to the revolters ; that an extensive accession of strength might
be gained from these different quarters ; and that there were all
the sympathies of like common wrongs, distresses, and resent-
ments, to bring them together, and to unite them in one cause.
The partial success of those who had already made an experi-
ment, would be a strong encouragement to others ; the rather,
as the whole line had formerly mutinied, not only with impunity,
but with advantage to themselves.

In this state of things, decision was most compatible with the
safety of the community, as well as the dignity of government.
Though no general convulsion might be to be apprehended,
serious mischiefs might attend the progress of the disorder. In-
deed, it would have been meanness, to have negotiated and tem-
porized with an armed banditti of four or five hundred men ;
who, in any other situation than surrounding a defenceless sen-
ate, could only become formidable by being feared. This was

388 HAMILTON'S WORKS, [.Et. 26.

not an insurrection of a whole people : it was not an army with
their officers at their head, demanding the justice of their
country ; either of which might have made caution and conces-
sion respectable : it was a handful of mutinous soldiers, who had
equally violated the laws of discipline, as the rights of public
authoritv.

Congress, therefore, wisely resolve, that " it is necessary that
effectual measures be immediately taken for supporting the pub-
lic authority;" and call upon the State in which they reside, for
the assistance of its militia, at the same time that they send
orders for the march of a body of regular forces as an eventual
resource.

There was a propriety in calling for the aid of the militia in
the first place, for different reasons. Civil government may
always, with more jDeculiar propriety, resort to the aid of the
citizens, to repel military insults or encroachments.

'Tis there, it ought to be supposed, where it may seek its
surest dependence, especially in a democracy, which is the crea-
ture of the people. The citizens of each State are, in an aggre-
gate light, the citizens of the United States, and bound, as much
to support the representatives of the whole, as their own imme-
diate representatives. The insult was not to Congress personally ;
it was to the government, to public authority in general ; and
was very properly put upon that footing. The regular forces,
which Congress could command, were at a great distance, and
could not, but in a length of time, be brought to effectuate their
purpose. The disorder continued to exist on the spot where
they were ; was hkely to increase by delay ; and might be pro-
ductive of sudden and mischievous effects by being neglected.

The city and the Bank were in immediate danger of being
rifled ; and, perhaps, of suffering other calamities. The citizens,
therefore, were the proper persons to make the first exertion.

The objection, that these were not the objects of the care of
CongTCSS, can only serve to mislead the vulgar. The peace and
safety of the place which was the immediate residence of Con-J
gress, endangered^ too, by the troops of the United States, demanded!
their interposition. The President of the State of Pennsylvania

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 389

was Tiimself of this opinion ; having declared to a member of
that body, that as their troops were the offenders, it was proper
for them to decLare the necessity of calhng out the militia, as a
previous step to its being done.

Nor is there more weight in the supposition that the danger
was inconsiderable ; and that, from the pacific appearances of the
troops, it was to be expected, the disorder would subside of
itself. The facts were, that the troops still continued in a state
of mutiny ; had made no submissions, nor offered any ; and that
they affected to negotiate with their arms in their hands.

A band of mutinous soldiers, in such a situation, uncon-
trolled, and elated with their own power, was not to be trusted.

The most sudden vicissitudes and contradictory changes were
to be expected ; and a fit of intoxication was sufficient, at any
moment, with men who had already gone such length, to make
the city a scene of plunder and massacre. It was the height
of rashness to leave the city exposed to the bare possibility of
such mischiefs.

The only question, in this view, is. Whether there was
greater danger to the city, in attempting their reduction by
force, than in endeavoring, by palliatives, to bring them to a
sense of duty ? It has been urged, and appeared to have ope-
rated strongly upon the minds of the Council,* that the soldiers
being already embodied, accustomed to arms, and ready to act at
a moment's warning, it would be extremely hazardous to attempt
to collect the citizens to subdue them, as the mutineers might
have taken advantage of the first confusion incident to the
measure, to do a great deal of mischief, before this militia could
have assembled in equal or superior force.

It is not to be denied, but that a small body of disciplined
troops, headed and led by their officers, with a plan of conduct,
could have effected a great deal in similar circumstances ; but it
is equally certain, that nothing can be more contemptible, than
a body of men, used to be commanded and to obey, Avlicn de-

* Your Excellency will recollect, that, in our private conversation, you urged
this consideration, and appealed to my military cxporicucc ; and that I made, sub-
stantially, the observations which I'ollow.

390 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 26

prived of the example and direction of their officers. They are
infinitely less to be dreaded than an cqnal number of men who
have never been broken to command, nor exchanged their
natural courage for that artificial kind which is the effect of dis-
cipline and habit. Soldiers transfer their confidence from them-
selves to their officers, face danger by the force of example, the
dread of punishment, and the sense of necessity. Take away
these inducements and leave them to themselves, they are no
longer resolute than till they are opposed.

In the present case, it was to be relied upon, that the appear-
ance of opposition would instantly bring the mutineers to a
sense of their insignificance, and to submission. Conscious of
their weakness, from the smallness of their numbers ; in a popu-
lous city, and in the midst of a populous country ; awed by the
consequences of resisting government by arms, and confounded
by the want of proper leaders and proper direction ; the com-
mon soldiers would have thought of nothing but making their
peace by the sacrifice of those who had been the authors of their
misconduct.

The idea, therefore, of coercion, was the safest and most pru-
dent : for more was to be apprehended from leaving them to
their own passions, than from attempting to control them by
force. It will be seen, by and by, how far the events, justly
appreciated, corresponded with this reasoning.

Congress were not only right in adopting measures of coer-
cion ; but they were also right in resolving to change their situa-
tion, if proper exertions were not made by the particular govern-
ment and citizens of the place where they resided. The want of
such exertions would evince some defect, no matter where, that
would prove they ought to have no confidence in their situation.
They were, to all intents and purposes, in the power of a law-
less, armed banditti, enraged, whether justly, or not, against
them. However they might have had a right to expose their
own persons to insult and outrage, they had no right to expose
the character of representatives, or the dignity of the States they
represented, or of the Union. It was plain, they could not, with
propriety, in such a state of things, proceed in their deliberations

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 391

where they were ; and it was right they should repair to a place
where they could do it. It was far from impossible, that the
mutineers might have been induced to seize their persons, as
hostages for their own security, as well as with a hope of extort-
ing concessions. Had such an event taken place, the whole
country would have exclaimed. Why did not Congress withdraw
from a place where they found they could not be assured of sup-
port; where the government was so feeble, or the citizens so
indisposed, as to suffer three or four hundred mutinous soldiers
to violate, with impunity, the authority of the United States,
and of their own State ?

When they resolved to depart, on the want of adequate ex-
ertions, they had reason to doubt their being made, from the dis-
inclination shown by the Council to call out the militia in the
first instance : and when they did actually depart, they were in-
formed by the Council, that the efforts of the citizens were not
to be looked for, even from a repetition of the outrage which
had already happened ; and it was to be doubted what measure
of outrage would produce them. They had also convincing proof,
that the mutiny was more serious than it had even at first ap-
peared, by the participation of some of the of&cers.

To throw the blame of harshness and precipitancy upon Con-
gress, it is said, that their dignity was only accidentally and unde-
signedly offended. Much stress has been laid upon the message,
from the soldiery being directed to the Council, and not to them.
All this, however, is very immaterial to the real merits of the
question. Whatever might have been the first intention of the
mutineers in this particular act, whether it proceeded from arti-
fice or confusion of ideas, the indignity to Congress was the same.
They knew that Congress customarily held their deliberations at
the State House : and if it even be admitted, that they knew
Saturday to be a day of usual recess, which, perhaps, is not alto-
gether probable : when they came to the place they saw, and
knew, Congress to be assembled there. They did not desist in
consequence of this ; but proceeded to station their guards, and
execute their purposes. Members of Congress went out to them ;
remonstrated with them ; represented the danger of their pro-

392 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 26.

ceedings to themselves, and desired them to withdraw : but they
persisted till they obtained what they supposed a part of their
object. A majority of the same persons had, some days before,
sent a message, almost equally exceptionable, to Congress ; and
at the time they scarcely spoke of any other body than Congress ;
who, indeed, may naturally be supposed to have been the main
object of their resentments: for Congress, having always appear-
ed to the soldiery, to be the body who contracted with them, and
who had broken faith with them, it is not to be supposed they
were capable of investigating the remote causes of the failures,
so as to transfer the odium from Congress to the State.

But the substantial thing to be considered in this question, is
the violation of public authority. It cannot be disputed, that
the mutiny of troops is a violation of that authority to which
they owe obedience. This was, in the present case, aggravated
to a high degree of atrociousness, by the gross insult to the gov-
ernment of Pennsylvania, in the face of Congress, and in defi-
ance of their displeasure. It was further aggravated by contin-
uing in that condition for a series of time.

The reasons have been assigned, that made it incumbent upon
Congress to interpose ; and when they called upon the State of
Pennsylvania, not only to vindicate its own rights, but to sup-
port their authority, the declining a compliance was a breach of
the Confederation, and of the duty which the State of Penn-
sylvania owed to the United States. The best apology for the
government of Pennsylvania, in this case, is, that they could not
command the services of their citizens. But so improper a dis-
position in the citizens, if admitted, must operate as an additional
justification to Congress, in their removal.

The subsequent events, justly appreciated, illustrate the pro-
priety of their conduct. The mutineers did not make voluntary
submissions in consequence of negotiation, persuasion, or convic-
tion. They did not submit till after Congress had left the city,
publishing their intentions of coercion ; till after there had been
an actual call upon the militia ; till their leaders and instigators,
alarmed by the approach of force, and the fear of being betrayed
by the men, fled. They were reduced by coercion, not overcome
by mildness.

jet.26.] correspondence. 303

It appears, too, that wliile tliey were professing repentance,
and a return to their duty, they were tampering with the troops
at Yorktown and Lancaster, to increase their strength; and
that two officers, at least, were concerned in the mutiny, who, by
their letters since, have confessed, that some project of impor-
tance was in contemplation.

The call for the militia was made the day after it had been
pronounced ineligible by the Council. There could have been
little change, in that time, either in the temper or preparations of
the citizens. The truth is, that the departure of Congress brought
the matter to a crisis ; and that the Council were compelled, by
necessity, to do what they ought to have done before, through
choice.

It is to be lamented they did not, by an earlier decision, pre-
vent the necessity of Congress taking a step which may have
many disagreeable consequences. They then would

[ The residue of the manuscript is not found.]

HAMILTON TO MADISON.

Princeton, June 29, 1783.

Dear Sir:

I am informed, that, among other disagreeable things said
about the removal of Congress from Philadelphia, it is insinu-
ated, that it was a contrivance of some members, to get them
out of the State of Pennsylvania, into one of those to which
they belonged ; and I am told, that this insinuation has been
pointed at me in particular.

Though I am persuaded, that all disinterested persons will
justify C9ngress in quitting a place where they were told they
were not to expect support (for the conduct of the Council
amounted to that), yet, I am unwilling to be held up as having
had an extraordinary agency in the measure for interested pur-
poses, when the fact is directly the reverse. As you were a

394 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 26.

witness to my conduct and opinions tlirougli the wliole of the
transaction, I am induced to trouble you for your testimony
upon this occasion. I do not mean to make a public use of it ;
but, through my friends, to vindicate myself from the imputa-
tions I have mentioned.

I will therefore request your answers to the following ques-
tions :

Did that part of the resolutions, which related to the removal
of Congress, originate with me, or not ?

Did I, as a member of the committee, appear to press the
departure ; or did I not rather manifest a strong disposition to
postpone that event as long as possible, even against the general
current of opinion ?

I wish you to be as particular and fall in your answer as
your memory will permit. I think you will recollect, that my idea
was clearly this : That the mutiny ought not to be terminated
by negotiation ; that Congress were justifiable in leaving a place
where they did not receive the support which they had a right
to expect ; but, as their removal was a measure of a critical and
delicate nature; might have an ill appearance in Europe; and
might, from events, be susceptible of an unfavorable interpre-
tation in this country ; it was prudent to delay it till its necessity
became apparent: not only till it was manifest there would be
no change in the spirit which seemed to actuate the Council ;
but till it was evident, complete submission was not to be ex-
pected from the troops ; that, to give full time for this, it would
be proper to delay the departure of Congress till the latest period
which would be compatible with the idea of meeting at Trenton
or Princeton on Thursday — perhaps even till Thursday morning.
I am. Sir, your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

To James Madison, Junior, Esq.

.Et. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 395

HAMILTON TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

Philadelphia, July G, 1783.

Dear Sir:

On my arrival in this city I am more convinced than I was
of the necessity of giving a just state of facts to the public. The
current runs strongly against Congress, and in a great measure
for want of information. When facts are explained they make
an impression, and incline to conclusions more favorable to us.

I have no copy of the Reports in my possession, which puts
it out of my power to publish them. Will you procure and
send me one without loss of time ? Without appearing, I intend
to give them to the public with some additional explanations.
This done with moderation will no doubt have a good effect.

The prevailing idea is, that the actors in the removal of Con-
gress were influenced by the desire of getting them out of the
city, and the generality of the remainder by timidity — some say
passion. Few give a more favorable interpretation.

I will thank you in your letter to me to answer the follow-
ing question :

What appeared to be my ideas and disposition respecting the
removal of Congress ? Did I appear to wish to hasten it, or did
I not rather show a strong disposition to procrastinate it ?

I will be obliged to you in answering this question to do it
fully. I do not intend to make any public use of it, but through
my friends to vindicate myself from the insinuation I have men-
tioned, and in that to confute the supposition that the motive
assigned did actuate the members on whom it fell to be more

particularly active.

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

396 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 26.

HAMILTON TO MRS. HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, July 22, 1783.

I wrote you, my beloved Eliza, by the last post, whicli I
liope will not meet with the fate that many others of my letters
must have met with. I count upon setting out to see you in
four days ; but I have been so frequently disappointed by un-
foreseen events, that I shall not be without apprehensions of
being detained, till I have begun my journey. The members of
Congress are very pressing with me not to go away at this time,
as the House is thin, and as the definitive treaty is momently
exj^ected.

Tell your father that Mr. Kivington, in a letter to the South
Carolina delegates, has given information, coming to him from
Admiral Arbuthnot, that the Mercury frigate is arrived at New-
York with the definitive treaty, and that the city was to be
evacuated yesterday, by the treaty.

I am strongly urged to stay a few days for the ratification of
the treaty ; at all events, however, I will not be long absent.

I give you joy of the happy conclusion of this important
work in which your country has been engaged. Now, in a very
short time, I hope we shall be happily settled in New- York.

My love to your father. Kiss my boy a thousand times.

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.

Princeton, July 27, 1783.

Sir:

A few days since I was honored with your Excellency's
letter of the ; and was glad to find your ideas on the subject
corresponded with mine.

As I shall, in a day or two, take leave of Congress, I think
it my duty to give my opinion to the Legislature, on a matter of

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 397

importance to tlie State, wliicTi lias been long depending, and is
still without a prospect of termination in tlie train in wliicli it
has been placed : I mean the aifair of the Grants. It is hazard-
ous to |)ass a positive judgment on what will happen in a body
so mutable as that of Congress ; but from all I have seen, I have
come to a settled opinion, that no determination will be taken
and executed by them in any other manner, than in that pre-
scribed by the Confederation. There is ahvays such a diversity
of views and interests ; so many compromises to be made be-
tween different States ; that, in a question of this nature, the
embarrassments of which have been increased by the steps that
have preceded, and in which the passions of the opposite sides
have taken a warm part, decision must be the result of necessity.
While Congress have a discretion, they will procrastinate : when
they are bound by the Constitution, they must proceed.

It is, therefore, my opinion, that it will be advisable for the
Legislature, when they meet, to review the question ; and either
to relinquish their pretensions to the country in dispute, or to
instruct their delegates, if a decision is not had within a limited
time, to declare the submission to Congress revoked, and to insti-
tute a claim according to the principles of the Confederation.

It would be out of my province to discuss which side of the
alternative ought, in l)olicy, to prevail : but I will take the liberty
to observe, that if the last should be preferred, it would be ex-
pedient to remove every motive of opposition from private
claims ; not only by confirming, in their full latitude, previous
to the trial, the possessions of the original settlers, but even the
grants of the usurped government. It may happen, that it will
be eventually necessary to employ force ; and, in this case, it
would be of great importance that neither the inhabitants of the
Grants, nor powerful individuals in other States, should find
their private interest in contradiction to that of the State. This
has already had great influence in counteracting our wishes ;
would continue to throw impediments in the way of ulterior
measures ; and might at last kindle a serious flame between the
States.

I communicated to your Excellency, in a former letter, that

398 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 26.

I had. declined pressing the application of the Legislature to Con-
gress, respecting the State troops for garrisoning the frontier
posts, because temporary provision had been made in another
way, which would save the State the immediate expense ; and
because there was a prospect of some general provision for the
defence of the frontiers on a Continental establishment, which
was to be preferred on every account. A report for this purpose
is now before Congress ; but the thinness of re|)resentation has,
for some time, retarded, and still retards, its consideration.

The definitive treaty is not yet arrived ; but from accounts
which, though not official, appear to deserve credit, it may be
daily expected. A gentleman, known and confided in, has
arrived at Philadelphia, who informs, that he saw a letter from
Dr. Franklin to Mr. Barkeley, telling him that the definitive
treaties were signed the twenty-seventh of May, between all the
parties ; that New- York was to be evacuated in six months from
the ratification of the preliminaries in Europe, which will be the
twelfth or fifteenth of next month.

As it is not my intention to return to Congress, I take this
opportunity to make my respectful acknowledgments to the Legis-
lature, for the honorable mark of their confidence conferred upon
me, by having chosen me to represent the State in that body.
I shall be happy if my conduct has been agreeable to tliem.
With perfect respect,

I have the honor to be.
Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
To his Excellency General Washington.

CLINTON TO DUANE AND l'hOMMEDIEU.

Aug. 23, 1783.
* * * * I would take this opportunity also of
calling your attention to concurrent resolutions of the Legisla-
ture, respecting the garrisoning of the Western posts in this

^T. 26.] COB.RESPONDENCE. 399

State, wlaich, by tlie provisional treaty, are to be evacuated by
tbe British. These resolutions were in the tenor of instructions
to our delegates, and were immediately transmitted to them ; but
as I have not been favored with any official information of the
result, I submit it to you whether some report on a subject so
interesting to the State, may not be necessary for the satisfaction
of the Legislature. From informal communications made to me
by the Commander-in-Chief, I have reason to believe, that he
has directions from Congress for garrisoning those j)osts with
continental troops, and that he is making arrangements for that
purpose. But as you will observe, that as it was the sense of
the Legislature, that those posts should have been garrisoned by
the State, an explanation on the subject becomes the more neces-
sary ; and it is now for this reason alone, I would request, that
you would be pleased to favor me with a particular detail of the
motives which influenced the determination of Congress on this
occasion. For it will readily be perceived, that should Con-
gress, at this late day, accede to the propositions made by the
State, it might be impracticable to carry them into execution,
especially, as I have not ventured, in the state of uncertainty in
which I was left, to incur the expense which the necessary pre-
parations for the purpose would have required * * *

Geo. Clinton.

DUANE AND l'HOMMEDIEU TO FLOYD AND HAMILTON.

Princeton, 1783.
HONOEABLE GENTLEMEN :

We inclose you an extract of Dispatches from His Excellency
our Governor, received this day, respecting the instructions of
the Legislature, at their last session, for the security of the West-
ern posts.

You will be pleased to observe, that an ofl&cial Report, on a
subject so interesting to the State, is deemed to be necessary ; as
well as a particular detail of the motives which influenced Con-

400 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 26.

gress against tlie declared sense of tlie State ; to give directions
to the Commander-in-Cliief for garrisoning those posts with
Continental troops. This is a duty to which, not having been
present at the debates, we find ourselves incompetent. We can
therefore, only refer His Excellency and the Legislature to you,
our worthy colleagues, who, being fully possessed of the facts,
can alone give the necessary ofiEicial information.

"VTith sentiments of the most perfect esteem and regard,
We have the honor to be.
Gentlemen,

Your most obedient servants,
Jas. Duane.

EZEA L'HOMilEDIEU.

The Honorable

Cols. William Floyd and
Alexander Hamilton.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Passy, Sept. 28, 1783.

Deae Sir:

You was always of the number of those I esteemed, and your
correspondence would both be interesting and agreeable. I
had heard of your marriage, and it gave me pleasure, as well
because it added to your happiness, as because it tended to fix
your residence in a State of which I long wished you to be and
remain a citizen.

The character and talents of delegates to Congress daily be-
come more and more important, and I regret your declining that
apj)ointment at this interesting period. Eespect, however, is
due to the considerations which influence you, but as they do
not oj^pose your accepting a place in the Legislature, I hope the
State will still continue to draw advantage from your services ;
much remains to be done, and laborers do not abound.

I am happy to hear that terms of peace, and the conduct

yET. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 401

of your negotiators, give general satisfaction : but tliere are
some of our countrymen, it seems, who are not content; and
that, too, with an article which I thought to be very unex-
ceptionable ; \az., the one ascertaining our boundaries. Per-
haps those gentlemen are latitudinarians.

The American newspapers, for some months past, contain
advices which do us harm. "Violences and associations against
the tories, pay an ill compliment to government, and impeach
our good faith in the opinion of some, and our magnanimity
in the opinion of many. Our reputation also suffers, from the
apparent reluctance to taxes, and the ease with which we incur
debts without providing for their payment. The complaints
of the army; the jealousies respecting Congress; the circum-
stances which induced their leaving Philadelphia ; and the too
little appearance of a national spirit pervading, uniting, and
invigorating the Confederacy, are considered as omens which
portend the diminution of our respectability, power, and felicity.

I hope that, as the wheel turns round, other and better indi-
cations will soon appear. I am persuaded that America possesses
too much wisdom and virtue, to permit her brilliant prospects to
fade away for want of either.

The tories are almost as much pitied in these countries as
they are execrated in ours. An undue degree of severity to-
wards them, would, therefore, be impolitic, as well as unjustifi-
able. They who incline to involve that whole class of men in
indiscriminate punishment and ruin, certainly carry the matter
too far. It would be an instance of unnecessary rigor, and un-
manly revenge, without a j)arallel, except in the annals of reli-
gious rage in times of bigotry and blindness. What does it
signify where nine-tenths of these people are buried ? I would
rather see the sweat of their brows fertihzc our fields than those
of our neighbors. -x- * * * *

Victory and Peace should, in my opinion, be followed by Cle-
mency, Moderation, and Benevolence : and we should be careful
not to sully the glory of the Revolution, by licentiousness and
cruelty. These are my sentiments: and however unpopular

VOL. I. 26

402 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 26.

they may be, I liave not tlie least desire to conceal or disguise

them.

Believe me to be,

With great regard and esteem, dear Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant,

John Jay.
Colonel A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON" TO WASHINGTON.

Albany, September 30, 1783.

Dear Sir:

As I flatter myself I may indulge a consciousness that my
services have been of some value to the public, at least enough to
merit the small compensation I wish, I will make no apology to
your Excellency, for conveying, through you, that -wish to Con-
gress. You are able to inform them, if they wish information,
in what degree I may have been useful : and I have entire con-
fidence that you will do me justice.

In a letter which I wrote to you several months ago, I inti-
mated that it might be in your power to contribute to the estab-
lishment of our Federal Union upon a more solid basis. I have
never since explained myself At the time, I was in hopes
Congress might have been induced to take a decisive ground ;
to inform their constituents of the imperfections of the present
system, and of the impossibility of conducting the public affairs,
with honor to themselves and advantage to the community, with
powers so disproportioned to their responsibility; and, having
done this, in a full and forcible manner, to adjourn the moment
the definitive treaty was ratified. In retiring at the same junc-
ture, I wished you, in a solemn manner, to declare to the people,
your intended retreat from public concerns ; your opinion of the
present government, and of the absolute necessity of a change.

Before I left Congress I despaired of the first ; and your cir-
cular letter to the States had anticipated the last. I trust it will

Mt.26.] correspondence. 403

not be without effect ; tliougli I am persuaded it would Lave had
more, combined with what I have mentioned. At all events,
without compliment, sir, it will do you honor A\'ith the sensible
and well meaning ; and, ultimately, it is to be hoped, Avith the
people at large, when the present epidemic frenzy has subsided.
I am, dear Sir,

With sincere esteem.

Your obedient servant,

A, Hamilton.
To His Excellency General Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Albany, September 30. 1783.

Sir:

I think I may address the subject of this letter to your Ex-
cellency with more propriety than to any other person, as it is
purely of a military nature; as you are best acquainted with my
services as an ofl&cer ; and as you are now engaged in assisting
to form the arrangements for the future peace establishment.

Your Excellency knows, that in March, '82, I relinquished
all claim to any future compensation for my services, either
during the residue of the war, or after its conclusion — sim])ly
retaining my rank. On this foundation I build a hope, that I
may be permitted to preserve my rank, on the peace establish-
ment, without emoluments and unattached to any corps — as an
honorary reward for the time I have devoted to the public. As
I may hereafter travel, I may find it an agreeable circumstance
to appear in the character I have supported in the Ee volution.

I rest my claim solely on the sacrifice I have made ; because
I have no reason to believe that my services have appeared of
any value to Congress ; as they declined giving them any marks
of their notice, on an occasion which appeared to my friends to
entitle me to it, as well by the common practice of sovereigns,

404 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 26.

as bj the particular practice of tliis country iu rej^eated in-
stances.

Your Excellency will recollect, that it was my lot at York
Town to command, as senior officer, a successful attack upon one
of the enemy's redoubts ; that the officer who acted in a similar
capacity in another attack, made at the same time by the French
troops, has been handsomely distinguished, in consequence of it,
by the government to which he belongs; and that there are
several examples among us, where Congress have bestowed
honors upon actions, perhaps not more useful nor, apparently
more hazardous.

These observations are inapplicable to the present Congress,
further than as they may possibly furnish an additional motive
to a compliance with my wish.

The only thing I ask of your Excellency, is, that my appli-
cation may come into view in the course of the consultations on
the j)eace establishment.

I have the honor to be.
With sincere esteem.
Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
To His Excellency General Washington.

HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.

Albany, October 3, 1783.

Sir:

I have lately received from Messrs. Duane and L'Homme-
dieu, an extract of a letter from your Excellency to the dele-
gates, of the twenty -third of August last, requesting " a partic-
ular detail of the motives which influenced the determination of
Congress," respecting the application of the Legislature to have
their State troops released from Continental pay, for the purpose
of garrisoning the frontier posts.

,Et.26.]. correspondence. 405

In my letters to your Excellency, of the first of June and
twenty-seventli of July, which were intended to be official, I
summarily informed you, that Congress had made temporary
provision for garrisoning the frontier posts, and that a plan was
under deliberation relative to a peace establishment, which would,
of course, embrace that object permanently ; that such tempo-
rary provision being made at the common expense, and a general
plan being under consideration for the future, I had declined
pressing a compliance with the application of the Legislature ;
conceiving it to be more for the interest of the State, that the
expense should be jointly borne, than that it should fall exclu-
sively upon itself.

I did not enter into a more full detail upon the subject, be-
cause the business continued, to the time I left Congress, in an
undecided state; and it was impossible to judge what views
would finally prevail.

The concurrent resolutions of the two Houses had been
immediately, on their receipt, referred to a committee appointed
to report on a peace establishment, who had suspended their
report on these resolutions, till it should appear, what would be
the fate of a general plan which had been submitted.

As to the motives that influenced Congress in making the
provision they did make, rather than immediately assenting to
the application of the State ; as far as I was able to collect them,
they were these : The opinions of many were unsettled as to the
most eligible mode of providing for the security of the frontiers,
consistent with the Constitution, as well with respect to the
general policy of the Union, as to considerations of justice to
those States whose frontiers were more immediately exposed.
A considerable part of the Ilouse appeared to think, from reasons
of a very cogent nature, that the well-being of the Union re-
quired a federal provision for the security of the different parts ;
and that it would be a great hardship to individual States, pecu-
liarly circumstanced, to throw the whole burthen of expense
upon them, by recurring to separate provisions, in a matter, the
benefit of which would be immediately shared by their neigh-
bors, and, ultimately, by the Union at large : that, indeed, it was

406 HAMILTON'S WORKS. . [^t. 26.

not probable particular States would be either able, or, upon
experiment, willing, to make competent provision at their sepa-
rate expense; and that the principle might eventually excite
jealousies between the States imfriendly to the common tran-
quillity.

I freely confess I was one who held this opinion.

Questions naturally arose as to the true construction of the
articles of Confederation upon this head ; questions as delicate
as interesting, and as difl&cult of solution.

On one hand, it was doubted whether Congress were autho-
rized by the Confederation, to proceed upon the idea of a federal
provision : on the other, it was perceived that such a contrary
construction would be dangerous to the Union, including, among
other inconveniences, this consequence : That the United States,
in Congress, cannot raise a single regiment, nor equip a single
ship, for the general defence, till after a declaration of war, or
an actual commencement of hostilities.

In this dilemma, on an im|)ortant constitutional question ;
other urgent matters depending before Congress ; and the ad-
vanced season requiring a determination upon the mode of secur-
ing the western posts in case of a surrender this fall ; all sides
of the House concurred in making a temporary provision, in the
manner which has been communicated.

My apprehension of the views of the Legislature was simply
this : That, looking forward to a surrender of the posts, and
conceiving, from some expressions in the articles of Confedera-
tion, that separate provision was to be made for the frontier
garrisons ; they had thought it expedient to apply the troops
already on foot to that purpose, and to propose to Congress to
give their sanction to it.

Under this apprehension ; reflecting, besides, that those troops
were engaged only for a short period, upon a very improper
establishment to continue, on account of the enormous pay to
the private men ; and that the expense which is now shared by
all, and which would have fallen solely upon the State, had the
application been complied with ; would probably be at the rate
of nearly eighty thousand dollars per annum, a considerable

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 407

sum for the State in its present situation ; I acknowledge to your
Excellency, tliat I saw with pleasure, rather than regret, the
turn which the affair took. I shall be sorry, however, if it has
contravened the intentions of the Legislature.

I will take the liberty to add, upon this occasion, that it has
always appeared to me of great importance, to this State in par-
ticular, as well as to the Union in general, that Federal, rather
than State, provision should be made for the defence of every
part of the Confederacy, in peace as well as in war.

Without entering into arguments of general policy, it will
be sufficient to observe, that this State is, in all respects critically
situated.

Its relative position, shape, and intersections, viewed on the
map, strongly speak this language. — Strengthen the Confedera
tion ; give it exclusively the power of the sword : let each State
have no forces but its militia.

As a question of mere economy, the following considerations
deserve great weight.

The North River facilitates attacks by sea and by land : and,
besides the frontier forts, all military men are of opinion, that a
strong post should be maintained at West Point, or some other
position on the lower part of the river.

If Canada is well governed, it may become well peopled,
and by inhabitants attached to its government. The British
nation, while it preserves the idea of retaining possession of that
country, may be expected to keep on foot there, a large force.
The position of that force, either for defence or offence, will
necessarily be such as will afford a prompt and easy access to us.

Our precautions for defence, must be proportioned to their
means of annoying us : and we may hereafter find it indispen-
sable to increase our frontier garrisons.

The present charge of a competent force in that quarter,
thrown additionally, into the scale of those contributions which
we must make to the payment of the public debt, and to other
objects of general expense, if the Union lasts, would, I fear, en-
large our burthen beyond our ability: that charge, hereafter
increased, as it may be, would be oppressively felt by the people.

408 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 26.

It includes, not only the expense of paying and subsisting tlie
necessary number of troops, but of keeping tbe fortifications in
repair ; probably of creating others ; and of fiirnisliing the re-
quisite supplies of military stores. I say nothing of the Indian
nations, because, though it will be always prudent to be upon
our guard against them, yet, I am of opinion we diminish the
necessity of it by making them our friends : and I take it for
granted, there cannot be a serious doubt, any where, as to the
obvious policy of endeavoring to do it. Their friendship, alone,
can keep our frontiers in peace. It is essential to the improve-
ment of the fur trade ; an object of immense importance to the
State. The attempt at the total expulsion of so desultory a peo-
ple, is as chimerical as it would be pernicious. War with them
is as expensive as it is destructive: it has not a single object;
for, the acquisitions of their lands is not to be wished, till those
now vacant are settled: and the surest, as well as the most just
and humane way of removing them, is by extending our settle-
ments to their neighborhood.

Indeed, it is not impossible they may be already willing to ex-
change their former possessions for others more remote.

The foregoing considerations would lose all force, if we had
full security that the rest of the world would make our safety
and prosperity the first object of their reverence and care : but an
expectation of this kind would be too much against the ordinary
course of human affairs ; too visionary to be a rule for national
conduct.

It is true, our situation secures us from conquest, if internal
dissensions do not open the way : but when nations now make
war upon each other, the object seldom is total conquest. Par-
tial acquisitions ; the jealousy of power ; the rivalship of domin-
ion, or of commerce; sometimes national emulation and anti-
pathy ; are the motives.

Nothing shelters us from the operation of either of these
causes. The fisheries ; the fur trade ; the navigation of the
lakes and of the Mississippi ; the western territory ; the Islands
of the West Indies, with reference to traffic ; in short, the pas-
sions of human nature, are abundant sources of contention and
hostility.

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 409

I will not trespass fiirtlier on your Excellency's patience. I
expected, indeed, tliat my last letter would have finished my
official communications ; but Messrs. Duane and L'Hommedieu
having transmitted the extract of your letter to Mr. Floyd and
myself, in order that we might comply with what your Excel-
lency thought would be expected by the Legislature, it became
my duty to give this explanation. Mr. Floyd having been at
Congress but a little time after the concurrent resolutions arrived,
and being now at a great distance from me, occasions a separate
communication.

I have the honor to be.
With perfect respect,

Your Excellency's

Most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

N. B. I did not at the time inclose the resolution, directing
the General to provide for garrisoning the frontier posts, because
I understood it would in course be transmitted to you by the
President, or the Secretary at War.

A. H.
To his Excellency Governor Clinton.

MADISON TO HAMILTON.

Princeton, October 16, 1783.

Dear Sir :

Your favor of the sixth of July, by some singular ill luck,
never found its way to my hands till yesterday evening.

The only part that now needs attention, is a request that I
would answer the following question : " What appeared to be
my ideas and disposition respecting the removal of Congi^ess :
did I appear to wish to hasten it, or did I not rather show a
strong disposition to procrastinate it ?" If this request had been

410 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 26.

received at tlie time it ouglit, it might liave been answered as
fully as you then wished. Even after the delay which has taken
place, my recollection enables me, with certainty, to witness,
that the uniform strain of your sentiments, as they appeared,
both from particular conversations with myself, and incidental
ones with others in my presence, was opposed to the removal of
Congress, except in the last necessity; that when you finally
yielded to the measure, it appeared to be more in compliance
with the peremptory expostulations of others than with any dis-
position of your own mind ; and that after the arrival of Con-
gress at Princeton, your conversation showed that you reviewed
the removal, rather with regret than with pleasure.

Perhaps this obedience to your wishes may be too late to
answer the original object of them. But I could not omit such
an opportunity of testifying the esteem and regard with which I
am

Your obedient servant,

J. Madison, Jr.
To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON".

Rocky Hill, October 18, 1783.

Dear Sir :

I am favored with your two letters of the thirtieth of Sep-
tember.

The debate on Indian affairs, which, I believe, is got through,
and that on the residence of Congress, Avhich is yet in agitation,
have entirely thrown aside, for some time, the consideration of
the peace establishment. When it is resumed, I will take care
that your application comes into view ; and shall be happy if
any thing in my power may contribute to its success ; being,
with great truth.

Dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

Gr. Washington.
To Colonel Hamilton.

^T. 26.] CORRESPONDENCE. 411

McHENEY TO HAMILTON.

Princeton, October 22, 1783.

Dear Hamilton:

The liomilies you delivered in Congress are still recolftcted
witli pleasure. The impressions they made are in favor of your
integrity ; and no one but believes you a man of honor and re-
publican principles. Were you ten years older and twenty
thousand pounds richer, there is no doubt but that you might
obtain the suffrages of Congress for the highest ofiice in their
gift. You are supposed to possess various knowledge, useful,
substantial, and ornamental. Your very grave and 3'our cau-
tious, your men who measure others by the standard of their
own creeping politics, think you sometimes intemperate, but sel-
dom visionary : and that were you to pursue your object with as
much cold perseverance as you do with ardor and argument, you
would become irresistible. In a word, if you could submit to
spend a whole life in dissecting a fly, you would be, in their
opinion, one of the greatest men in the world. Bold designs ;
measures calculated for their rapid execution; a wisdom tha
would convince from its own weight ; a project that would sur-
prise the people into greater happiness, without giving them an
opportunity to view it and reject it ; are not adapted to a coun-
cil composed of discordant elements, or a people who have thir-
teen heads, each of which pay superstitious adorations to inferior
divinities.

I have been deterred, from day to da}^, from sending you the
extract you desire, by a proclamation on the subject, which I
expected would have passed. It is still in duhio. I have report-
ed on Fleury's case, on the principle you recommend. I fear his
half-pay will not be granted.

Congress, some time ago, determined to fix their Federal town
on the Delaware, near Trenton. Yesterday they determined to
erect a second Federal town on the Potomac, near Georgetown ;
and to reside equal periods (not exceeding one year) at Annapo-
lis and Trenton, till the buildings are completed. We adjourn

412 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 26.

the twelfth of next montli, to meet at Annapolis the twenty-
sixth.

Adieu, my dear friend ; and in the days of your happiness
drop a line to yours.

James McHenry.

P. S. Our exemplification of the Treaty has passed, and will
be transmitted to the State officially.

J. McH.
To the Hon. Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

WASHINGTON" TO HAMILTON.

Rocky Hill, November 6, 1783.

Dear Sir :

The inclosed is a letter w^hich I had written, and was about
to dispatch at the date of it ; but, upon second thoughts, deter-
mined to postpone it, and try, if, from the importance of the
matter, I could not bring forward the peace establishment pre-
idously.

I have tried in vain. Congress, after resolving, on the

of last month, to adjourn upon the twelfth of this, did, equally
unexpectedly and surprisingly to me, finish their session at this
place the day before yesterday ; without bringing the peace estab-
lishment, or any of the many other pressing matters, to a decision.

Finding this was likely to be the case, I showed 3'our letter
to some of your particular friends ; and consulted with them on
the propriety of making known your wishes Avith my testimo-
nial of your services to Congress ; but they advised me to de-
cline it, under a full persuasion that no discrimination would, or
indeed, could, be made at this late hour, as every other officer,
from the highest to the lowest grades (not in actual command),
were retiring without the retention of rank ; and that the re-
mainder, upon a peace establishment (if a Continental one should
ever take place), would come in upon the new system, under

MT.2G.] CORRESPONDENCE. 413

fresli appointments ; so that nnless you wislied to come into actual
command again (which none supposed), they saw no way by
which you could preserve your rank.

I have the pleasure to inclose you a brevet, giving you the
rank of full Colonel.

I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

G. Washington.
To Colonel Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO PKESIDENT OF CONGEESS.

New-York, December 8, 1783.

Sir:

Being concerned as counsel for a number of persons who have
been, since the annunciation of the provisional treaty, indicted
under the confiscation laws of this State, for the part they are
supposed to have taken in the late war, we are induced, at the
desire of our clients, and in their behalf, to apply to Congress,
through your Excellency, for an exemplification of the definitive
treaty. We take it for granted, that ere this it will have been

direction of the United States.
We have found a great strictness in the Courts in this State. It
will, we apprehend, be necessary to be able to produce an exem-
plification of the treaty under the seal of the United States. In
a matter so interesting to a great number of individuals, for it
does not belong to us to urge considerations of national honor,
we hope we shall be excused when we observe, that there appears
to be no probability that the legislature of this State will inter-
pose its authority to put a stop to prosecutions, till the definitive
treaty is announced in form. In the mean time, a period is
limited for the appearance of the indicted persons to plead to
their indictments, and if they neglect to appear, judgment by de-
fault will be entered against them. It is therefore of great con-
sequence to them, that we should have in our possession, as

414 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 27.

speedily as possible, an autlientic document of tlie treaty, and of
its ratification by Congress ; and we, on this account, pray an
exemplification of botb.

We persuade ourselves tbat the justice and liberality of Con-
gress will induce a ready compliance witb our prayer, which will
conduce to the security of a great number of individuals who
derive their hopes of safety from the national faith.

We have the honor to be with perfect respect,
Your Excellency's

Most obedient and humble servants,

A, Hamilton & others.
His Excellency

The President of Congress.

HAMILTON TO J. B. CHURCH.

New- York, March 10, 1784.

My Dear Sir :

In my last to you I informed you that a project for a
land bank had been set on foot by Mr. Sayre, as the ostensible
parent; but that I had reason to suspect the Chancellor was the
true father. The fact has turned out as I supposed, and the
Chancellor, with a number of others, have since petitioned the
Legislature for an exclusive charter for the proposed bank. I
thought it necessary, not only with a view to your project, but
for the sake of the commercial interests of the State, to start an
opposition to this scheme; and took occasion to point out its
absurdit}^ and inconvenience to some of the most intelligent
merchants, who presently saw the matter in a proper light, and
began to take measures to defeat the plan.

The Chancellor had taken so much pains with the country
members, that they all began to be persuaded that the land bank
was the true Philosopher's stone that was to turn all their rocks
and trees into gold ; and there was great reason to apprehend a

^T. 27.] CORRESPONDENCE. 415

majoritj" of the Legislature would have adopted his views. It
became necessary to convince the projectors themselves of the
impracticability of their scheme ; and to counteract the impres-
sions they had made by a direct application to the Legislature.
Some of the merchants, to effect these purposes, set on foot a
subscription for a money bank, and called upon me to subscribe.
I was a little embarrassed how to act, but upon the whole I con-
cluded it best to fall in with them, and endeavor to induce them
to put the business upon such a footing as might enable you,
with advantage, to combine your interests with theirs ; for since
the thing had been taken up upon the broad footing of the
whole body of the merchants, it appeared to me that it never
would be your interest to pursue a distinct project in opposition
to theirs ; but that you would prefer, so far as you might choose
to employ money in this way, to become purchasers in the
general bank. The object, on this supposition, was to have the
bank founded on such principles as would give you a proper
weight in the direction. Unluckily, for this purpose, I entered
rather late into the measure : proposals had been agreed upon,
in which, among other things, it was settled that no stockholder,
to whatever amount, should have more than seven votes, which
was the number to which a holder of ten shares was to be enti-
tled. At an after meeting of some of the most influential char-
acters, I engaged them so far to depart from this ground, as to
allow a vote for every five shares above ten.

The stockholders have since thought proper to appoint me
one of the directors. I shall hold it till Wadsworth and you
come out, and, if you choose to become parties to this bank, I
shall make a vacancy for one of you. I inclose you the consti-
tution, and the names of the President, Directors, and Cashier.

An application for a charter has been made to the Legisla-
ture, with a petition against granting an exclusive one to the
land bank. The measures which have been taken appear to
have had their effect upon the minds of the partisans of the
land bank.

The affairs of the bank in Pennsylvania appear to be in
some confusion. They have stopped discounts ; but I have no

416 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 27.

apprehension that there is any thing more in the matter than
temporary embarrassment from having a little overshot their
mark in their issues of paper, and from the opposition which the
attempt to establish a new bank had produced.

Yours affectionately,

A. Hamilton.
J. B. Church, Esq.

HAMILTON TO FITZSIMMONS.

New-York, March 21, 1784.

Dear Sir :

Permit me to introduce to your acquaintance and attention
Mr. Seton, Cashier of the Bank of New-York. He is just
setting out for Philadelphia to procure materials and informa-
tion in the forms of business. I recommend him to you, be-
cause I am persuaded you will with pleasure facilitate his object.
Personally, I dare say you will be pleased with him.

He will tell you of our embarrassments and prospects. I
hope an incorporation of the two banks, which is evidently the
interest of both, has put an end to differences in Philadelphia.
Here a wild and impracticable scheme of a land bank stands in
our way ; the projectors of it persevering in spite of the experi-
ence they have, that all the mercantile and moneyed influence is

against it.

A. Hamilton.

WILLIAM SETON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 27 March, 1784.

Dear Sir:

You will observe by my letter of this day to our President,
that I have been requested to postpone my visit to the bank
until they shall be well informed that the Bank of New- York
has, or actually will, obtain a charter. Although I am confident
this is only an ostensible reason for not wishing to see me at the

^T. 27.] CORRESPONDENCE. 417

bank, it will be bigblj necessary I should be regularly informed
of what is doing in this respect, that I may be able to speak
fully and with firmness to the subject; therefore, exclusive of
any letter the director may write to me, I trust you will commu-
nicate to me whatever may appear to you essential for me to
know.

The fact is (and which cannot be communicated to the many,
and therefore not mentioned in my official letter), their motive
for not wishing to see me at the bank just now, arises from their
being at present in very great confusion — the opposition of the
new bank began it, and being pressed so hard by this opposition,
they were obliged to lay themselves so open, that it evidently
appeared, if carried further, it would strike too fatal a blow.
Therefore, for the safety of the community at large, it became
absolutely necessary to drop the idea of a new bank, and to join
hand in hand to relieve the old bank from the shock it had re-
ceived. Gold and silver had been extracted in such amounts
that discounting was stopped, and for this fortnight past not any
business has been done at the bank in this way. The distress it
has occasioned to those dependent on circulation and engaged in
large speculations, is severe ; and, as if their cup of misery must
overflow, by the last arrival from Europe, intelligence is received
that no less a sum than £60,000 sterling of Mr. Morris's bills,
drawn for the Dutch loan, are under protest. It is well known
that the bank, by some means or other, must provide for this
sum. The child must not desert its parent in distress, and, such
is their connection, that whatever is fatal to the one must be so
to the other. However, the man who has more than once, by
his consummate abilities, saved the American Empire from ruin,
will no doubt be found equal to overcome these temporary in-
conveniences, and to restore universal confidence and good order.
I trust you will be guarded in your conversation Avith others on
this subject, lest it might recoil on me, and not only place me
in a disagreeable situation, but defeat the purposes of my coming
here, I have had several interviews with our friend Gov.
Morris ; he is for making the bank of New-York a branch of

VOL. I, 27

418 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 27.

the bank of Norfh America, but we differ widely in our ideas of
tlie benefit that would result from such a connection.

If it will not be intruding too much upon your time and
goodness, may I request that you will now and then inform me
what is doing by our Legislature, and permit me to assure you,
that it will ever give me singular pleasure to have it in my
power to evince the respect and esteem with which
I am, dear Sir,

Your ob't and very humble serv't,

Wm. Seton.
Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

New-York, April 4, 1784.

Pardon me, my dear sir, for not sooner having obeyed your
orders with respect to the inclosed, I part with it reluctantly ;
for wit is so rare an article, that when we get so much of it in
so small a compass, we cannot easily consent to be dispossessed
of it. I am very happy to hear of the union of your two Banks ;
for you will believe me when I tell you, that, on more deliberate
consideration, I was led to view the competition in a different
light from that in which it at first struck me. I had no doubt
that it was against the interests of the proprietors ; but, on a
superficial view, I perceived benefits to the community, which,
on a more close inspection, I found were not real.

You will call our proceedings here strange doings. If some
folks were paid to counteract the prosperity of the State, they
could not take more effectual measures than they do. But it is
in vain to attempt to kick against the pricks.

Discrimination bills ; partial taxes ; schemes to engross pub-
lic property in the hands of those who have present power ; to
banish the real wealth of the State, and to substitute paper

yET.27.] CORRESPONDENCE. 419

bubbles ; are the only dishes that suit the public palate at tbis
time.

Permit me to ask your opinion on a point of importance to
the New-York Bank — the best mode of receiving and paying
out gold. I am aware of the evils of that which has been prac-
tised upon in Philadelphia — weighing in quantities ; but I cannot
satisfy myself about a substitute, unless there could be a coinage.

Favor me with your sentiments on this subject as soon as
you can.

Believe me, with equal warmth and sincerity,

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

To Gouverneur Morris, Esq.

HAMILTON TO DE CHASTELLUX.

New-York, June li, 1784.

Monsieur Le Chevalier :

Colonel Clarkeson, who will have the honor of delivering
you this, being already known to you, I give him this letter more
for the sake of renewing to you the assurances of my attachment
and esteem, than from a supposition that he will stand in need
of any new title to your attention. I will therefore only say of
him, that his excellent qualities cannot be known without inter-
esting those to whom they are known, and that from a personal
and warm regard for him, I should be happy, if any thing I
could say, could be an additional motive for your countenance
and civilities to him.

I speak of him in the light of a friend. As the messenger of
Science, he cannot fail to acquire the patronage of one of her
favorite ministers. He combines with the views of private satis-
faction, which a voyage to Europe cannot but afford, an under-
taking for the benefit of a Seminary of learning, lately instituted
in this State.

420 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 27.

Learning ls tlie common concern of mankind ; and wliy may
not poor republicans, who can do little more than wish her well,
send abroad to solicit the favor of her patrons and friends ? Her
ambassador will tell you his errand. I leave it to your mistress
to coimnand and to the trustees of the institution to ash your
interest in promoting his mission.

Permit me only to add, that if there is any thing in this
country by which I can contribute to your satisfaction, nothing
will make me happier at all times, than that your commands
may enable me to give you proofs of the respectful and affection-
ate attachment with which

I have the honor to be.

Monsieur Le Chevalier,

Your most ob't and humble serv't,

A. H.
Le Chevalier De Chastellux.

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 30, 1784.

Dear Hamilton :

This is rather a late period to acknowledge yours of the
seventh of April. I have lived in the constant intention to
answer it, and I now execute my purpose. But why not sooner?
" Procrastination is the thief of time," says Dr. Young. I meant
to have written fully on the subject of the gold. But I waited
some informations from Annapolis on the probability of a Mint.
I afterwards intended a long letter upon a subject I mentioned
to Mr. Seton, namely, a coalition between your Bank and the
National Bank. I do not find either party inclined to it. And
yet both would be the better for it. You, I believe, will soon
be out of blast unless it should take place. I could say a great
deal on this subject, but it would be very useless. When you
find your cash diminish very fast, remind Seton of my predic-

^T. 27.] CORRESPONDENCE. 421

tions, and let him tell you wliat they were. If the Legislature

should attempt to force paper money down your throats, it would

be a good thing to be somewhat independent of them. But I

must check myself, or I shall go too far into a business which

would plague us both to no purpose. It shall be left, therefore,

until we meet.

Very affectionately yours,

Gouv. Morris.
Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

Albany, Oct. 8, 1784.

Dear Hamilton :

^- ******

Several delays have retarded the opening of the Treaty ; and
when I was upon the ground, it has been found that my influ-
ence with the Indians, both friendly and hostile tribes, was much
greater than the Commissioners, and even myself, had conceived ;
so that I was requested, even by every one of the tribes there,
to speak to those nations. There were some, more or less, from
each tribe. I stayed as long as the Commissioners thought I
could do them some good ; and that has rather cramped my pri-
vate plans of visits.

Now, my dear friend, I am going to Hartford, Boston, New-
port ; from thence, by water, to Virginia, in order to save time ;
and about the twentieth of next month I hope to be again with
you in New-York : but before that time will write you from

Newport.

Adieu, my dear Hamilton.

Most affectionately I am yours.

La Fayette.

P. S. I am told Mr. Jay is not determined upon accepting.
I much wish he may consent to it ; the more so, as his probable
successor does not hit my fancy. Indeed, I very much wish
Mr. Jay may accept the office.
To Colonel Hamilton.

422 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 21.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

Boston, Oct. 22, 1784.

My Dear Hamilton :

Every step I move, there comes Tipon me a liappy necessity
to change my plans. The reception I met with in Boston no
words can describe ; at least it is impossible to express what I
have felt. Gratitude as well as propriety conspired with all
other inducements to keep me here some time longer. Ehode
Island and New Hampshire I must visit, and intend embarking
by the first or second day of next month for Virginia, in the
Nymph frigate, which has been sent on my account. In less
than four weeks' time from this day, I hope to be with Congress ;
and when my business there is concluded, will come to New-
York, where I hope we will spend some days together. My stay
in your city has been too short, far inadequate to the feelings of
my gratitude, and to the marks of goodness bestowed upon
me ; but this time I will be some days longer with my New-
York friends.

Upon reflecting on my situation, my circumstances, my love
for America, and yet the motives that might render it improper
for her to employ me in a public capacity, I have confined
myself to a plan which, at the same time that it gratifies my
attachment and serves the United States, cannot have any
shadow of inconvenience. After having told me they know
my zeal, I wish Congress to add, they want me to continue
those friendly, and, I might say, patriotic exertions ; that in
consequence of it, their ministers at home, and their ministers
abroad, will have a standing order to look to me as one whose
information and exertions will ever be employed to the service
of the United States ; and when they think it is wanted, to
communicate with me upon the affairs of America ; that Con-
gress will, whenever I think it proper, be glad of my corres-
pondence.

Upon that general scale, every minister may conceal from me
what he pleases, may write to me only when he jDleases ; and

Mt.28.] correspondence. 423

should lie ever think my assistance is wanting, he has a title to
ask, I have one to give it ; and my connection with America is
for ever kept, without giving jealousy, upon such a footing as
will remain at the disposition of each public servant of Congress.

It seems to me, my dear friend, this idea already met with
your approbation. In case it does, do promote it with your
delegates and others. If it does not, write it to me by the bearer
whom I send by land to apologize to the General for uij delays.

Our friend Knox has been most affectionate and kind to me.

Yours for ever.

La Fayette.

P. S. I have written to Wadsworth, and spoken to Bosto-
nians respecting the Baron's affairs. I will do the same in
Virginia, Maryland, and elsewhere.

To Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

Paris, April 13, 1785.

.My Dear Hamilton:

Although I have just now written to McHenry, requesting
him to impart my Gazette to you, a very barren one indeed, I
feel within myself a want to tell you, I love you tenderly. Your
brother Church has sailed for America, since which I had a letter
from his lady, who is in very good health. By an old letter from
our friend Greene, I have been delighted to find he consents to
send his son to be educated with mine ; the idea makes me very
happy. I wish, dear Hamilton, you would honor me with the
same mark of your friendship and confidence. As there is no
fear of a war, I intend visiting the Prussian and Austrian troops.
In one of your New-York Gazettes, I find an association against
the slavery of negroes, which seems to me worded in such a
way as to give no offence to the moderate men in the southern

424 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 28.

States. As I ever have been partial to my brethren of that
color, I wish, if you are one in the society, yon would move, in
your own name, for my being admitted on the list. My best re-
spects wait on Mrs. Hamilton. Adieu.

Your affectionate friend,

La Fayette.

JOHN" ADAMS TO HAMILTON.

GROSVENOR-SaUARE, LONDON, Oct. 19, 1785.

Sir:

At the instance of Mr. Hartley, in behalf of his friend, Mr.
Francis Upton, I advised Mr. Upton to apply to some counsellor
in New-York, and particularly to Mr. Hamilton, whose reputa-
tion was known to me, although his person was not.

Mr. Hartley now requests for Mr. Upton a letter of introduc-
tion. As a total stranger, but by character, it would be very
difficult to find a pretence to excuse the liberty I take in present-
ing Mr. Upton to you, and recommending his case to your atten-
tion. But, as we say at the bar, where I wish I was, valeat quan-
tum valere potest. With much esteem,

I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

John Adams.
Mr. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WILKES.

November, 8, 1785.

Sir:

The message which you sent me yesterday, and your letter
to-day, were conceived in terms to which I am little accustomed.
Were I to consult my feelings only upon the occasion, I should
return an answer very different from that which I have, in jus-

^T.28.] CORRESPONDENCE. 425

tice to my own conduct, resolved upon. But in whatever light
we are to view each other hereafter, and however harsh and in-
delicate I may think the method you have taken to obtain an
explanation to be, I shall, for my own part, leave no room to sup-
pose that I intentionally gave you any cause to complain. I
shall, therefore, explicitly declare, that whatever inattention may
have appeared towards you, was solely owing to the continual
hurry in which my engagements, for a long time past, have kept
me ; and that, so far from its having been occasioned by any de-
signed neglect, it was what, under the circumstances, might have
happened to my best friend. Indeed, much of Avhat you men-
tion to have been done by you, I am a stranger to. The frequent
callings, by yourself and by your servant, did not, that I recol-
lect, come to my knowledge. It is possible some of them might
have been mentioned to me, and, in the hurry of my mind, for-
gotten. Once, I remember, I saw your servant just as I was
going out on some urgent business. I sent a verbal message,
promising that I would see you ; which I intended to do, as soon
as I had made up my resolution on the business of the interview.
When I received your note I was about sending you an answer
in writing ; but, upon inquiring for your servant, and finding
him gone, I omitted it, with an intention to see you personally.

You say it is near six months since you first applied to me on
the business in question. A great part of the time I gave you
all the answer I could give you ; to wit, that I had written to Mr.
Macaulay, and only waited his answer. About two months since,
I received it. I have been the greater part of the time out of
town on indispensable business. In the mtervals I have been oc-
cupied about objects of immediate and absolute necessity, which
could not have been delayed without letting my business run
into utter confusion. Mr. Macaulay's concerns have been hang-
ing upon my spirits. I have been promising myself, from day
to day, to bring them to a conclusion ; but more pressing objects
have unavoidably postponed it, I thought the delay required
some apology to Mr. Macaulay, but I never dreamt of having
given occasion of offence to you.

I will not, however, deny, upon a revicAV of what has passed.

426 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 28.

that there have been, through hurry and inadvertency on my part,
appearances of neglect towards you ; but between gentlemen and
men of business, unfavorable conclusions ought not to be drawn
before explanations are asked. Allowances ought to be made
for the situations of parties ; and the omissions of men, deeply
involved in business, ought rather to be ascribed to that cause
than to ill intentions.

Had you, in the first instance, expressed to me (in such a man-
ner as respect for yourself and delicacy to me dictated) your sense
of these appearances, I should have taken pains to satisfy you
that nothing imj^roper towards you was intended by me. But to
make one of my clerks the instrument of communication, and
the bearer to me of a harsh accusation, was ill-judged and ungen-
teel. To take it for granted that you had received an injury
from me, without first giving me an opportunity of an explanation,
and to couch your sense of it in terms so offensive as some of
those used in your letter, is an additional instance of precipita-
tion and rudeness.

Inadvertencies susceptible of misapprehension, I may commit ;
but I am incapable of intending to wound or injure any man
who has given me no cause for it ; and I am incapable of doing
any thing, sir, of which I need be ashamed. The intimation, on
your part, is unmerited and unwarrantable. After thus having
explained my own conduct to you, and given you my ideas of
yours, it will depend on yourself how far I shall be indifierent,
or not, to your future sentiments of my character. I shall only
add, that to-morrow you shall receive from me my determination
on the matter of business between us.

I am, with due consideration. Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

To John Wilkes, Esq.

iET. 28.] CORRESPONDENCE. 427

WILKES TO HAMILTOIST.

November 9, 1785.
Sir:

The moment I received yours, I perceived the precipitancy of
my own conduct, and was very sorry I had so far mistaken both
our characters to act in the manner I have done. I flatter my-
self, that the same candor which has dictated yours, will be ex-
erted towards mine, and that you will only view it as the act of
a man who conceived himself injured. As you have never ex-
perienced the cruel reverses of fortune, you can scarcely judge
how the least insinuations to their prejudice will affect those per-
sons who have ; or how much more suspicious they are of the
behavior of mankind towards them.

The morning I left the message for jou, I had been called
upon by one of the creditors of Mr. Heart, who thought it very
strange no dividend was made ; and he insinuated, some party
must be interested in the delay. It is the first money transac-
tion I have engaged in since my release. I felt the insinuation
as alluding to me, and with a force, which, perhaps, I should not.
However, that moment I went to your of&ce.

The next morning, when I saw your note to Mr. Atkinson,
and found myself totally set aside in a business where I had,
most undoubtedly, been originally neglected, I felt myself very
much agitated ; and in that frame of mind I wrote my last to
you.

So much I thought it necessary to add in explanation.

I am convinced, now, I have been too hasty ; and I am sorry
for it. It will put me on my guard in future, and I make no
doubt prove beneficial to me, provided it has not been the means
of hurting me in your estimation, which I am now more de-
sirous than ever of obtaining.

I am, Sir, with respect.

Your much obliged,

And most obedient servant,

John Wilkes.

To Colonel Hamilton.

428 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 28.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

November 23, 1785.

Dear Sir:

Major Fairly is just setting out on a visit to you, I believe
on some business relating to the Cincinnati. Tbe society of tliis
State met some sliort time since, and took into consideration the
proposed alterations in the original frame of tbe Institution:
some were strenuous for adhering to the old Constitution, a few
for adopting the new, and many for a middle line. This dis-
agreement of opinion, and the consideration that the different
State societies pursuing different courses — some adopting the
alterations entire; others rejecting them in the same way; others
adopting in part and rejecting in part — might beget confusion
and defeat good purposes, induced a proposal, which was unani-
mously agreed to, that a committee should be appointed to pre-
pare and lay before the society, a circular letter, expressive of
the sense of the society on the different alterations proposed, and
recommending the gi^dng powers to a general meeting of the
Cincinnati, to make such alterations as might be thought advis-
able, to obviate objections and promote the interests of the
society. I believe there will be no diflEiculty in agreeing to
change the present mode of continuing the society ; but it
appears to be the wish of our members, that some other mode
may be defined and substituted, and that it might not be left to
the uncertainty of legislative provision. We object, too, to
putting the funds under legislative direction. Indeed, it appears
to us, the Legislatures will not, at present, be inclined to give us
any sanction.

I am of the committee ; and I cannot but flatter myself, that
when the object is better digested, and more fully explained, it
will meet your approbation.

The poor Baron is still soliciting Congress, and has every
prospect of indigence before him. He has his imprudences ;
but, upon the whole, he has rendered valuable services ; and his

^T.28.] CORRESPONDENCE. 429

merits and the reputation of the countrj", ahke, demand that he
should not be left to suffer want.

If there could be any mode by which your inllucnce could
be employed in his favor, by writing to your friends in Congress,
or otherwise, the Baron and his friends would be under great
obligations to you.

I have the honor to be,
With sincere esteem,

Your ob't and humble serv't,

Alex, Hamilton.

To His Excellency General Washington.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, December 11, 1785.

Dear Sir:

I have been favored with your letter of the twenty-third of
November, by Major Fairl}^

Sincerely do I wish that the several State societies had, or
would adopt the alterations that were recommended by the
general meeting, in May, seventeen hundred and eighty-four.
I then thought, and have had no cause since to change my opin-
ion, that if the society of the Cincinnati mean to live in peace
with the rest of their fellow-citizens, they must subscribe to the
alterations which were at that time adopted.

That the jealousies of, and prejudices against, this societ}^,
were carried to an unwarrantable length, I will readily grant ;
and that less than was done, ouglit to have removed the fears
which had been imbibed, I am as clear in, as I am that it would
not have done it. But it is a matter of little moment, whether
the alarm which seized the public mind was the result of fore-
sight, envy, and jealousy, or a disordered imagination : the effect
of perseverance would have been the same. Wherein, then,
would have been found an equivalent for the separation of in-

430 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 29.

terests wliicli (from my best information, not from one State
only, but many) would inevitably liave taken place ?

The fears of the people are not yet removed; they only
sleep ; and a very little matter will set them afloat again. Had
it not been for the predicament we stood in with respect to the
foreign officers and the charitable part of the Institution, I
should, on that occasion, as far as my voice would have gone,
have endeavored to convince the narrow-minded part of our
countrymen, that the amor patrice. was much stronger in our
breasts than theirs, and that our conduct, through the whole of
the business, was actuated by nobler and more generous senti-
ments than were apprehended, by abolishing the society at once,
with a declaration of the causes, and the purity of its intention.
But the latter may be interesting to many, and the former is an
insuperable bar to such a step.

I am sincerely concerned to find, by your letter, that the
Baron is again in straitened circumstances. I am much disin-
clined to ask favors of Congress ; but if I knew what the object
of his wishes are, I should have much pleasure in rendering him
any service in my power, with such members of that body as I
now and then correspond with. I had flattered myself, from
what was told me some time ago, that Congress had made a final
settlement with the Baron much to his satisfaction.
I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant,

G. Washington.

To Alex. Hamilton, Esq.

HAMILTON TO NATHANIEL HAZARD,

April 24, 178G.

Sir:

Your letter of the twenty -first was only delivered me this
morning. The good opinion of liberal men I hold in too high
estimation not to be flattered by that part of your letter which

JE.T.29.] CORRESPONDENCE. 431

relates to me personally. The otlier part I liave communicated
to General Schuyler, and he assures me he will see all his friends
this afternoon upon the subject ; so that I have no doubt, as far
as his influence extends, it will be employed in favor of the
success of the bill in the Assembly, as it has already been in the
Senate.

In taking this step, however, I would not be understood to
declare any opinion concerning the principles of the bill, with
which I am not sufficiently acquainted to form a decided opinion.
I have merely made 3^our letter the occasion of introducing the
subject to General Schuyler, whose sentiments are as favorable
to your wishes as you could desire.

I make this observation from that spirit of candor which I
hope will always direct my conduct. I am aware that I have
been represented as an enemy to the wishes of what you call
your corps. If by this has been meant that I do not feel as much
as any man, not immediately interested, for the distresses of
those merchants who have been in a great measure the victims
of the Ee volution, the supposition does not do justice either to
my head or my heart. But if it means that I have always
viewed the mode of relieving them as a matter of peculiar deli-
cacy and difficulty, it is well founded.

I should have thought it unnecessary to enter into this ex-
planation, were it not that I am held up as a candidate at the
ensuing election ; and I would not wish that the step I have
taken, in respect to your letter, should be considered as imply-
ing more than it does ; for I would never wish to conciliate at
the expense of candor. On the other hand, I confide in your
liberality not to infer more than I intend from the explanation I
have given ; and hope you will believe me to be, with great
cordiality and esteem.

Dear Sir,

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

To Mr. Hazard.

432 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 30.

GUSHING, DANA, AND BRECK TO HAMILTON.

New-York, Sept. 10, 1786.

Gentlemen :

Understanding, on our arrival in this city last Friday evening,
that you had gone on for the Convention at Annapolis the week
past, we take the liberty to acquaint you, and beg you to com-
municate to the Convention, if it should be opened before we
arrive there, that we shall set off from this place to-morrow to
join them, as Commissioners from the State of Massachusetts,
which we hope to do in the course of this week. The Commis-
sioners from Philadelphia were to sail from thence for this city, on
the seventh instant, so that they may be expected soon after us.
With great respect,

Your most obedient humble servants,

Thomas Cushing.

F. T. H. Dana.
Saml. Breck.

The Gentlemen

Commissioners for New- York.

la FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

Paris, April 12, 1787.

My Dear Hamilton :

It is an age since I heard from you. Of you I hear by some
of our friends, and in the newspapers. But although I have a
right to complain, I want to let you know the proceedings of our
Assembly, which, as it is unusual in France, may raise your
curiosity.

Our Constitution is pretty much what it was in England be-
fore it had been fairly written down and minutely preserved ; so
that we have great claims to freedom, to a National Eepresenta-

Mt.30.] correspondence. 483

tion, to the denial of taxes, &c., &c. But disposition on one
liand, and levity on the other have manoeuvred us out of almost
every privilege. They will still subsist, however, more or less,
in some provinces, and particularly in those of Bretagne.

Now that the follies of Courts had obliged Government to
saddle us with new taxes, and the opposition of our magistrates
did present itself as an obstacle to the ministers, they have
thought proper to call an Assembly of Notables, chosen by the
king, but taken among the first people in each order, and to be-
gin with granting them what is more wished for by the nation,
an Assembly in each Province.

The last Assembly of Notables, in 1626, had been obedient
to the ministers. This one came at a more enlightened period.
It happened under a minister, who, although he has parts, is not
equal to some of the members — men of fine abilities. We are
backed by the nation, and although not her representatives, have
behaved as her interpreters, and we have formed a great majority
in favor of popular measures.

The speeches from the throne, those of M. de Calonne, have
been printed : the last one contains many falsehoods. The first
measure we took was for the clergy to declare they were ready
to pay in the same proportion with other people, for the Noblesse
to make the same declaration, and reject a pecuniary privilege
that was offered, in lieu of the other that is taken off.

We have gratefully accepted the provincial elective assem-
blies, but have united on such alterations as will invigorate
them. M. de Calonne had made a mixture of democracy and
despotism which did annihilate those checks and gradations that
are necessary evils, wherever there is a king. But I think the
provincial assemblies, as they are proposed by us, may lay a
foundation for a good building.

Several plans for the removal of internal Custom offices, for
the free exportation of corn, for the change in the salt tax, for
the annihilation of some duties, and now for the disposal of
the king's domanial possessions, have been examined, and un-
derwent several alterations. To some we have only left the

VOL. I. 28

434 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 30.

titles of the chapters, but changed them, in my opinion, much
for the better.

The idea of a general tax in kind, was proposed by the
government, but we said it was not practicable. As to any new
imposition, we have answered, it is impossible to form an opinion
before we know the return of the exports of the two last years,
and the plans of economy that are intended. We have not, it is
true, any powers from the nation, but our opinion is asked, and
in a measure has become necessary, and a majority of us do
not think their opinion can be given, until those preliminaries
are fulfilled.

There is a very interesting contrast between the king's power
at Versailles, and the opposition of that Assembly which is held
there, and divided in seven committees of twenty, or twenty -two
each, presided by a prince of the blood. Hitherto we have not
voted in a General Assembly, although we had some to hear the
Minister. But the opinions of the committees only are now
taken, and in the end each vote will be pronounced in the whole
house, beginning from the last up to the first in rank. You
know that we have the Clergy, Magistracy, Noblesse, and Tiers
Etat.

At the last meeting we had before the recess of these holi-
days, I had a personal battle of some importance. The king's
domanial property has been a pretence to lavish money on the
princes of the blood, favorites, and the powerful people of the
country. I had the day before moved for an examination of
those bargains, wherein more than fifty millions have been
thrown away. The great people being afraid of being found
out, and particularly M. de Calonne, who is guilty of the
most indecent depredation, thought they must intimidate me
and the Bishop of Langres, M. de la Luzerne's brother, who had
seconded my motion. They, in consequence of it, persuaded
the king to have us told by his brother, our president, that such
motions ought to be signed. Upon which, we signed the in-
closed paper ; and the bishop said, that after the rents, he would
bring in some accounts, signed by him, of the bargain of sine-
cure, made by M. de Calonne.

^T. 30.] CORRESPONDENCE. 435

The king was very angry with me ; M. de Calonne, who had
his confidence, intended signal revenge. I was preparing to sup-
port what I had said, when we suddenly heard that M. de
Calonne had been dismissed. The keeper of the seal was also
sent off. I am glad we got rid of M. de Calonne ; and with his
successor, who, unfortunately, is an old broken man, may im-
prove the opportunity of this Assembly, and let us make useful
arrano-ements.

Adieu, my dear Hamilton ; my best respects wait on Mrs.
Hamilton. Kemember me to Gen. Knox, Wadsworth — all our
friends, and particularly the good doctor.

Most affectionately yours,

La Fayette.

P. S. Don't tell the French Charge d'Aiiairs that you have
this paper from me, except that there is nothing in it, for topics
have spread every where.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, July 3, 1787.

Dear Sir:

In my passage through the Jerseys, and since my arrival here,
I have taken particular pains to discover the public sentiment,
and I am more and more convinced that this is the critical oppor-
tunity for establishing the prosperity of this country on a solid
foundation. I have conversed with men of information, not only
of this city, but from different parts of the State ; and they agree
that there has been an astonishing revolution for the better in the
minds of the people.

The prevailing apprehension among thinking men is, that
the Convention, from the fear of shocking the popular opinion,
will not go far enough. They seem to be convinced, that a strong,
well-mounted government will better suit the popular palate, than
one of a different complexion. Men in office are, indeed, taking
all possible pains to give an unfavorable impression of the Con-

436 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 30.

vention ; but tlie current seems to be moving strongly tlie other
way.

A plain, but sensible man, in a conversation I had with him
yesterday, expressed himself nearly in this manner: — The
people begin to be convinced that " their excellent form of gov-
ernment," as they have been used to call it, will not answer their
purpose, and that they must substitute something not very remote
from that which they have lately quitted.

These appearances, though they will not warrant a conclu-
sion that the people are yet ripe for such a plan as I advocate,
yet serve to j^rove that there is no reason to desj^air of their adopt-
ing one equally energetic, if the Convention should think proper
to propose it. They serve to prove that we ought not to allow
too much weight to objections drawn from the supposed repug-
nance of the people to an ef&cient constitution. I confess, I am
more and more inclined to believe, that former habits of thinkins:
are regaining their influence with more rapidity than is generally
imagined.

Not having compared ideas with you, sir, I cannot judge how
far our sentiments agree ; but, as I persuade myself, the genuine-
ness of my representations will receive credit with you. My
anxiety for the event of the deliberations of the Convention, in-
duces me to make this communication of what appears to be the
tendency of the public mind.

I own to you, sir, that I am seriously and deeply distressed
at the aspect of the counsels which prevailed when I left Phila-
delphia. I fear that we shall let slip the golden opportunity of
rescuing the American Empire from disunion, anarchy, and mi-
sery.

No motley or feeble measure can answer the end, or will
finally receive the public support. Decision is true wisdom, and
will be not less reputable to the Convention, than salutary to the
community.

I shall of necessity remain here ten or twelve days. If I have
reason to believe that my attendance at Philadelphia will not be
mere waste of time, I shall, after that period, rejoin the Con-
vention.

A. Hamilton.

^T.30.] CORRESPONDENCE. 437

WASHINGTON" TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 10th July, 1787.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your communication of the 3d. When I
refer you to the state of the councils which prevailed at the
period you left this city, and add that they are now, if possible,
in a worse train than ever ; you will find but little ground on
which the hope of a good establishment can be formed. In a
word, I almost despair of seeing a favorable issue to the pro-
ceedings of the Convention, and do, therefore, rejDcnt having any
agency in the business.

The men who oppose a strong and energetic government are in
my opinion narrow-minded politicians, or are under the influence
of local views. The apprehension expressed by them, that the
people will not accede to the form proposed, is the ostensihle^ not
the real^ cause of the opposition ; but admitting that the p)resent
sentiment is as they prognosticate, the question ought neverthe-
less to be, is it or is it not the best form ? If the former, recom-
mend it, and it will assuredly obtain, maugre opposition.

I am sorry you went away ; I wish you were back. The
crisis is equally important and alarming, and no opposition under
such circumstances should discourage exertions, till the signature
is fixed. I will not at this time trouble you with more than my
best wishes and sincere regards.

I am, dear Sir,

Your obedient servant,

G. Washington.

Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

HAMILTON to

New- York, , 1787.

Dear Sir:

Agreeably to what passed between us, I have had an inter-
view with Mr. Auldjo, and I flatter myself if there is (as I doubt
not there will be) as much moderation on the part of Major

438 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 30.

Peirce as there appears to be on tliat of Mr. Auldjo, that the
affair between them may yet be amicably terminated.

But Mr. Auldjo observes, I confess in my opinion with pro-
priety, that he ought to know with some precision the matters
which have given oifence to Major Peirce, before he can enter
into explanations ; which he declares himself to be very ready
to do with coolness and candor, the moment he shall be enabled
to do it by a specification of the subjects of complaint. If a
personal interview is for any reason disagreeable to Major Peirce,
I entreat you, my dear sir, to obtain from him, and to communi-
cate to me by letter, the substance of what has occasioned his
dissatisfaction, with so much particularity only as will put it in
the power of Mr. Auldjo to give an explicit answer. Major
Peirce will, I hope, have no scruples about this, for as the door
of explanation has been opened by Mr. Auldjo, there is no
punctilio which stands in his way ; and I trust he will feel the
force of a sentiment which prudence and humanity equally
dictate, that extremities ought then only to ensue when, after
a fair experiment, accommodation has been found impracticable.
An attention to this principle interests the characters of both the
gentlemen concerned, and with them our own ; and from every
other consideration, as well as that of personal friendship to the
parties, I sincerely wish to give it its full operation. I am con-
vinced you are not less anxious to effect this than myself, and I
trust our joint endeavors will not prove unsuccessful.
I remain with sincere regard,

Dear Sir, your obedient servant,

Alex. Hamilton.

I cannot, however, conclude without making one remark.
Though Mr. Auldjo has expressed and still entertains a desire of
explanation, it would ill become him to solicit it. Whatever,
therefore, in my expressions may seem to urge such an expla-
nation with the earnestness of entreaty, must be ascribed to my
own feelings, and to that inclination which every man of sensi-
bility must feel, not to see extremities take place if it be in his

\

iET.30.] CORRESPONDENCE. 439

power to prevent them, or until they become an absolutely
necessary sacrifice to public opinion,

I remain with sincere regard,

Dear Sir, your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO AULDJO.

New-York, July 2G, 1787.

Sir:

I have delivered the paper you committed to me, as it stood
altered, to Major Peirce, from whose conduct I am to conclude
the affair between you is at an end. He informs me that he
is shortly to set out on a jaunt up the North Eiver.

As you intimate a wish to have my sentiments in writing on
the transaction, I shall with pleasure declare that the steps you
have taken in consequence of Mr. Peirce's challenge have been
altogether in conformity to my opinion of what would be pru-
dent, proper, and honorable on your part. They seem to have
satisfied Mr. Peirce's scruples arising from what he apprehended
in some particulars to have been your conduct to him, and I
presume we are to hear nothing further of the matter.
I remain with great esteem, Sir,

Your obedient and humble servant,

Alex. Hamilton.
To Mr. Auldjo.

HAMILTON TO RUFUS KING.

New-York, August 20, 1787.

Dear Sir:

Since my arrival here, I have written to my colleagues, in-
forming them if either of them would come down, I would
accompany him to Philadelphia ; so much for the sake of pro-
priety and public opinion.

440 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 30.

In tlie mean time, if any material alteration should happen
to be made in the plan now before the Convention, I will be
obliged to you for a communication of it. I will also be obliged
to you to let me know when your conclusion is at hand, for I
would choose to be present at that time.

HAMILTON TO WADSWORTH.

August 20, 1787.

My Dear Sir :

The inclosed is said to be the copy of a letter circulating in
your State. The history of its appearance among us is, that it
was sent by one Whitmore of Stratford, formerly in the Paymas-
ter General's ofiice, to one James Eeynolds of this city.

I am at a loss clearly to imderstand its object, and have some
suspicion, that it has been fabricated to excite jealousy against
the Convention, with a view to an opposition to their recom-
mendations. At all events, I wish, if possible, to trace its source,
and send it to you for that purpose.

Whitmore must of course say where he got it, and by pursu-

ng the information we may at last come at the author. Let me

know the political connections of this man, and the complexion

of the people most active in the circulation of the letter. Be so

good as to attend to this inquiry somewhat particularly, as I have

different reasons of some moment for setting it on foot.

I remain, &c.

A. Hamilton.
To Jeremiah Wadsworth.

COL. WADSWORTH TO HAMILTON.

Hartford, August 26, 1787.

My Dear Sir :

I received your favor this day, with the inclosed copy of a
letter, said to be circulating in this State. Some time since a
paragraph in the New Haven papers hinted at such a letter, and

^T. 30.] CORRESPONDENCE. 441

appeared to be written to secure tlie Anti-federal party or alarm
tliem. And I believed it was well intended, as it seemed to be
meant to prepare tliem to comply with the doings of the Con-
vention, lest worse befell them; but the close of the letter
appears to be calculated for other purposes. Wetmore has
always associated with men who wished well to America, and a
good Government. He is half-brother to the spirited Federal
writer in our j^apers, who signs himself Cato; and if he has
really written or circulated the letter in question, I am quite at
a loss to know his intentions. I have communicated this matter
to Col. Humphreys, in confidence, who is on his way to New
Haven, where Wetmore lives, though formerly of Hartford. He
will inquire carefully into the matter, and write you. He has
lived in the same town with Wetmore, and can easily fathom
him. Wetmore is naturally sanguine, has some talents, and I
believe, is enterprising, but fickle. Who the active people in
this business are, I have yet to learn, as it certainly has not cir
culated hereabouts. But from Humphreys 3'ou may expect to
know all that is true, in Wetmore's neighborhood. I have
always been Humphreys' friend, but a nearer acquaintance with
him convinces me he is a man of great integrity, and such talents
as would wear well in any employment of confidence. If he
comes to New-York I wish you to be more acquainted with

him.

I am, dear Sir,

Your very humble servant,

Jerh. Wadsworth.

HAMILTON TO RUFUS KING.

New- York, August 28, 1787.

Dear Sir :

I wrote you, some days since, to request you to inform me
when there was a prospect of your finishing, as I intended to be
with you, for certain reasons, before the conclusion.

442 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 30.

It is wliispered here, that some late changes in your scheme
have taken ^^lace, which give it a higher tone. Is this the case ?
I leave town to-day to attend a circuit in a neighboring county,
from which I shall return the last of the week, and shall be glad
to find a line from you, explanatory of the period of the probable
termination of your business.

COLONEL HUMPHREYS TO HAMILTON".

New Haven, Sept. 16, 1787.

My Dear Sir :

Our friend Col. Wadsworth has communicated to me a letter,
in which you made inquiries respecting a political letter that
has lately circulated in this State. I arrived in this town yester-
day, and have since conversed with several intelligent persons
on the subject. It appears to have been printed in a Fairfield
paper as long ago as the 25th of July. I have not been able to
trace it to its source. Mr. Wetmore informs me, that when he
first saw this letter it was in the hands of one Jared Mansfield,
who, I believe, has formerly been reputed a Loyalist. Indeed it
seems to have been received and circulated with avidity by that
class of people, whether it was fabricated by them or not. I
think, however, there is little doubt that it was manufactured in
this State. I demanded of Mr. Wetmore what he thought were
the wishes and objects of the writer of that letter. He said, he
believed it might be written principally for the amusement of
the author, and perhaps with some view to learn whether the
people were not absolutely indifferent to aU government and
dead to all political sentiment.

Before I saw the letter in question, a paragraph had been
published by Mr. Meigs, giving an account of it, and attempting
to excite the apprehensions of the Anti-federalists, with an idea,
that the most disastrous consequences are to be expected, un-
less we shall accept the proceedings of the Convention. Some

^T.30.] CORRESPONDENCE. 443

tliink this was the real design of the fictitious performance, but
others, with more reason, that it was intended to feel the public
pulse, and to discover whether the public mind would be startled
with propositions of Eoyalty. The quondam tories have un-
doubtedly conceived hopes of a future union with Great Britain,
from the inefficacy of our Government, and the tumults which
prevailed in Massachusetts during the last winter. I saw a letter,
written at that period, by a Clergyman of considerable reputa-
tion in Nova Scotia, to a person of eminence in this State, stating
the impossibility of our being happy under our present Consti-
tution, and proposing (now we could think and argue calmly on
all the consequences) that the efforts of the moderate, the virtu-
ous, and the brave, should be exerted to effect a reunion with
the parent State. He mentioned, among other things, how
instrumental the Cincinnati might be, and how much it would
redound to their emolument. It seems, by a conversation I have
had here, that the ultimate practicability of introducing the
Bishop of Osnaburgh is not a novel idea among those who were
formerly termed Loyalists. Ever since the peace it has been oc-
casionally talked of and wished for. Yesterday, where I dined,
half jest — half earnest — he was given as the first toast.

I leave you now, my dear friend, to reflect how ripe we are
for the most mad and ruinous project that can be suggested,
especially when, in addition to this view, we take into considera-
tion how thoroughly the patriotic part of the community — the
friends of an ef&cient Government, are discouraged with the pre-
sent system, and irritated at the j)opular demagogues who are
determined to keep themselves in office, at the risk of every
thing. Thence apprehensions are formed, that though the mea-
sures proposed by the Convention, may not be equal to the
wishes of the most enlightened and virtuous, yet that they will
be too high-toned to be adopted by our popular assemblies.
Should that happen, our political ship will be left afloat on a sea
of chance, without a rudder as well as without a pilot.

I am happy to see you have (some of you) had the honest
boldness to attack in a public paper, the Anti-federal dogmas of a
great personage in your State. Go on and prosper. "Were the

444 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ■ [^t. 30.

men of talents and honesty, throughout the Continent, properly
combined into one phalanx, I am confident they would be com-
petent to hew their way through all opposition. Were there no
little jealousies, bickerings and unworthy sinister views, to divert
them from their object, they might by perseverance, establish a
Government calculated to promote the happiness of mankind,
and to make the Revolution a blessing instead of a curse.

I think it is probable that I shall soon go to the southward ;
in the mean time, I beg you to be persuaded that I am, with
sentiments of sincere friendship and esteem.
My dear Hamilton,

Your most obedient and most humble serv't,

I). Humphreys.
Col, Hamilton,

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON,

1787.

Dear Sir :

You probably saw, some time since, some animadversions on
certain expressions of Governor Clinton, respecting the Conven-
tion. You may have seen a piece, signed " A Republican," at-
tempting to bring the fact into question, and endeavoring to
controvert the conclusions drawn from it, if true. My answer
you will find in the inclosed. I trouble you with it merely from
that anxiety, which is natural to every man, to have his veracity
at least stand in a fair light. The matter seems to be given up
by the Governor, and the fact, with the inferences from it, stand
against him in fall force, and operate as they ought to do.

It is, however, of some importance to the party to diminish
whatever credit or influence I may possess, and to effect this,
they stick at nothing. Among many contemptible artifices prac-
tised by them, they have had recourse to an insinuation, that I
palmed myself upon you, and that you dismissed me from your
family. This I confess hurts my feelings, and if it obtains credit,
will require a contradiction.

^T. 30.] CORRESPONDENCE. 445

You, sir, will undoubtedly recollect the manner in which I
came into your family, and went out of it ; and know how desti-
tute of foundation such insinuations are. My confidence in your
justice will not permit me to doubt your readiness to put the
matter in its true light in your answer to this letter. It cannot
be my wish to give any complexion to the affair which might
excite the least scruple in you ; but I confess it would mortify
me to lie under the imputation, either of having obtruded myself
into the family of a General, or of having been turned out of it.

The new Constitution is as popular in this city as it is possible
for any thing to be, and the prospect thus far is favorable to it
throughout the State. But there is no saying what turn things
may take when the full flood of official influence is let loose
against it. This is to be expected ; for though the Governor
has not publicly declared himself, his particular connections and
confidential friends are loud against it.

Mrs. Hamilton joins in respectful compliments to Mrs. Wash-

mgton.

I remain with perfect esteem,

Your Excellency's obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

Paris, October 15, 1787.

My Dear Hamilton :

While you have been attending your most important Con-
vention, debates were also going on in France respecting the
constitutional rights, and matters of that kind. Grave reforms
are taking place at court. The parliaments are remonstrating,
and our provincial assemblies begin to pop out. Amidst many
things that were not much to the purpose, some good principles
have been laid out ; and, although our affairs have a proper ar-
rangement, the nation will not in the last be the loser. The
prime minister is a man of candor, honesty, and abilities. But

446 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 30.

now the rumor of war sets us a-going. ISTot that France is wish-
ing for it, and Great Britain ought to be satisfied with an advan-
tageous treaty of commerce, and the profit of hers and Prussia's
treachery in Holland. But, while I consider the madness of the
Turks, the movements of the Imperial Court, the folly of his
Prussian Majesty, the late catastrophe in Holland, and the cry of
England for war, I hardly think that the peaceful dispositions of
this ministry — and, they say, of Mr. Pitt — will be able to extin-
guish a fire that is catching in every corner of Europe. It would
be consistent with my inclination and best views that America
be engaged in an active co-operation. But as I do not think
it consistent with her interest, I have taken the liberty to ex-
press my ideas in an of&cial letter to Mr. Jay, to whom I refer
you. It seems to me, that a friendly, helping neutrality, would
be useful to France, profitable to the United States, and perfectly
safe on the footing of the treaties. Should America be forced to
war, I wish it would be for the last campaign — time enough to
occupy Canada and Newfoundland. But I see no inconvenience
in privateering with French letters of marque.

Inclosed is the journal of a preliminary assembly in Au-
vergne. I am returning there as soon as we have done some ar-
rangements resjDCCting American commerce, which will result on
as good footing in this kingdom as it is for the moment possible.
The ministry are more favorably disposed.

I hope you will be satisfied with Count de Maurice and
the Countess de Brehan, his sister-in-law. I beg leave to intro-
duce them both to you and Mrs. Hamilton, to whom I offer
my most affectionate regards. Eemember me to the rest of
the family and all friends. My best compliments wait on Gen.
Schuyler and the doctor. Adieu, my good friend. The post is
going to town. I have only time to tell that I am ever

Your most affectionate friend,

La Fayette.

jet.30.] correspondence. 447

WASHINGTOiSr TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, October 18, 1787.

Dear Sir:

Your favor, witliout date, came to my hand by the last post.
It is with unfeigned concern I perceive that a political dispute
has arisen between Gov. Clinton and yourself For both of you
I have the highest esteem and regard. But as you say it is in-
sinuated by some of your political adversaries, and may obtain
credit, "that you palmed yourself upon me and was dismissed
from my family," and call upon me to do you justice by a recital
of the facts ; I do, therefore, explicitly declare, that both charges
are entirely unfounded. With respect to the first, I have no
cause to believe that you took a single step to accomplish, or
had the most distant idea of receiving an appointment in my
family till you were invited thereto. And with respect to the
second, that your quitting it was altogether the effect of your
own choice.

When the situation of this country calls loudly for unanimity
and vigor, it is to be lamented that gentlemen of talent and
character should disagree in their sentiments for promoting the
public weal ; but unfortunately this ever has been, and more
than probable ever will be, the case in the affairs of man.

Having scarcely been from home since my return from Phil-
adelphia, I can give but little information with respect to the
general reception of the new constitution in this State. In Alex-
andria, however, and some of the adjacent counties, it has been
embraced with an enthusiastic warmth of which I had no con-
ception, I expect, notwithstanding, violent opposition will be
given to it by some characters of weight and influence in the
State.

Mrs. Washington unites with me in sending her best wishes
for Mrs, Hamilton and j^ourself.
I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient and affectionate friend,

G. Washington.

448 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 30.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

October 30, 1787.

I am much obliged to your Excellency for tlie explicit man-
ner in wliicli you contradict tlie insinuations mentioned in my
last letter. The only use I shall make of your answer will be
to put it into the hands of a few friends.

The constitution proposed has in this State warm friends,
and warm enemies. The first impressions every where are in
its favor ; but the artillery of its opponents makes some impres-
sion. The event cannot yet be foreseen. The inclosed is the
first number of a series of papers to be written in its defence.

I send you also, at the request of the Baron De Steuben, a
printed pamphlet, containing the grounds of an application lately
made to Congress. He tells me there is some reference to you,
the object of which he does not himself seem clearly to under-
stand ; but imagines it may be in your power to be of service
to him.

There are public considerations that induce me to be some-
what anxious for his success. He is fortified with materials,
which, in Europe, could not fail to establish the belief of the
contract he alleges. The documents of service he possesses are
of a nature to convey an exalted idea of them. The compensa-
tions he has received, though considerable, if compared with
those which have been received by American ofiicers, will,
according to European ideas, be very scanty in application to a
stranger who is acknowledged to have rendered essential ser-
vices. Our reputation abroad is not at present too high. To
dismiss an old soldier empty and hungry, to seek the bounty of
those on whom he has no claims, and to complain of unkind
returns and violated engagements, will certainly not tend to
raise it. I confess, too, there is something in my feelings which
would incline me in this case to go farther than might be strictly
necessary, rather than duive a man, at the Baron's time of life,
who has been a faithful servant, to extremities. And this is un-
avoidable if he does not succeed in his present attempt. What

^T. 30.] CORRESPONDENCE. 449

lie asks would, all calculations made, terminate in this, an allow-
ance of his five hundred and eighty guineas a year. He only
wishes a recognition of the contract. He knows that until
affairs mend no money can be produced. I do not know how
far it may be in your power to do him any good ; but I shall be
mistaken if the considerations I have mentioned do not aj^pear
to your Excellency to have some weight.

I remain, with great respect and esteem,

Your Excellency's obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

His Excellency General Washington.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, November 10, 1787.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for the pamphlet, and for the Gazette, contained
in your letter of the 30th ult. For the remaining numbers of
Publius, I shall acknowledge myself obliged, as I am persuaded
the subject will be well handled by the author.

The new constitution has, as the public prints will have in-
formed you, been handed to the people of this State by a unan-
imous vote of the Assembly, but it is not to be inferred from
hence that its opponents are silenced. On the contrary there
are many, and some powerful ones — some of whom, it is said,
by overshooting the mark, have lessened their weight ; be this as
it may, their assiduity stands unrivalled, whilst the friends to the
constitution content themselves with barely avowing their appro-
bation of it. Thus stands the matter with us at present, yet my
opinion is that the major voice is favorable.

Application has been made to me by Mr. Secretary Thomp-
son (by order of Congress), for a copy of the report of a com-
mittee, which was appointed to confer with the Baron He Steu-
ben, on his first arrival in this country, forwarded to me by Mr.
President Laurens. This I have accordingly sent. It throws

VOL. I. 29

450 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^x. 31.

no other light on the subject than such as is to be derived from
the disinterested conduct of the Baron. No terms are made by
him, " nor will he accept of any thing but with general appro-
bation," I have, however, in my letter inclosing this report to
the Secretary, taken occasion to express an unequivocal wish
that Congress would reward the Baron for his services, sacrifices,
and merits, to his entire satisfaction. It is the only way in
which I could bring my sentiments before that honorable body,
as it has been an established principle with me, to ask nothing

from it.

With very great esteem and regard,

I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

G. WASHiisrGTOisr.

HAMILTON TO JAMES MADISON, JUNE.

New-York, April 3, 1788.

I have been very delinquent, my dear sir, in not thanking
you for your letter from Philadelphia. The remarks you made
on a certain subject are important, and will be attended to.

There is truly much embarrassment in the case.

I think, however, the principles we have talked of, are not
only just, but will apply to the other departments. Nor will the
consequences appear so disagreeable as they may seem at first
sight, when we attend to the true import of the rule established.
The States retain all the authorities they were before possessed
of, not alienated in the three modes pointed out ; but this does
not include cases which are the creatures of the new Constitu-
tion. For instance, the crime of treason against the United
States immediately is a crime known only to the new Constitu-
tion. There of course teas no power in the State constitutions to
pardon that crime. There will therefore be none under the
new, &c. This is something like, it seems to me, to afford the
best solution of the difiiculty. I send you the Federalist from

iET. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 451

tlie beginning to the conclusion of the commentary on the Ex-
ecutive Branch. If our suspicions of the author be right, he
must be too much engaged to make a rapid progress in what
remains. The Court of Chancery and a Circuit Court are now
sitting.

We are told that your election has succeeded, with which
we all felicitate ourselves. I will thank you for an account of
the result generally. In this State our prospects are much as
you left them. A moot point which side will prevail. Our
friends to the northward are active.

I remain,

Your affectionate obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MADISON,

May, 4, 1788.

My Dear Sir :

I believe I am in your debt a letter or two, which is owing
to my occuj)ation in relation to the elections, &c.

These are now over in this State, but the result is not known.
All depends upon Albany, where both sides claim the victory.
Our doubts will not be removed till the latter end of the month.
I hope your expectations of Virginia have not diminished.

Eespecting the first volume of Publius I have executed your
commands. The books have been sent addressed to the care of
Governor Eandolj^h. The second, we are informed, will be out
in the course of a week, and an equal number shall be forwarded.
Inclosed is a letter, committed to my care by Mr. Vanderkcmp,
which I forward with pleasure.

Believe me, with great attachment,

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

452 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 31.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERXEUR MORRIS.

New- York, May 19, 1788.

]\[y Dear Sir :

I acknowledge my delinquency in not thanking you before for
your obliging letter from Kiclimond. But the truth is, that I
have been so overwhelmed in avocations of one kind or another,
that I have scarcely had a moment to spare to a friend. You, I
trust, will be the less disposed to be inexorable, as I hope you
will believe there is no one for whom I have more inclination
than yourself — I mean of the male kind.

Your account of the situation of Virginia was interesting, and
the present appearances, as represented here, justify your con-
jectures. It does not, however, apj)ear that the adoption of the
constitution can be considered as out of doubt in that State. Its
conduct ujDon the occasion will certainly be of critical import-
ance.

In this State, as far as we can judge, the elections have gone
Avrong. The event, however, will not certainly be known till
the end of the month. Violence, rather than moderation, is to
be looked for from the opposite party. Obstinacy seems the
prevailing trait in the character of its leader. The language is,
that if all the other States adopt, this is to persist in refusing the
constitution. It is reduced to a certainty, that Clinton has in
several conversations declared the Union unnecessary ; though I
have the information through channels which do not permit a
public use to be made of it.

We have, notwithstanding this unfavorable complexion of
things, two sources of hope— one, the chance of a ratification by
nine States, before we decide, and the influence of this upon the
firmness of the folloivers ; the other, the probability of a change
of sentiment in the people, auspicious to the Constitution.

The current has been for some time running towards it ;
though the whole flood of ofiicial influence, accelerated by a tor-
rent of falsehood, early gave the public opinion so violent a
direction in a wrong channel, that it was not jiossible suddenly
to alter its course. This is a mighty stifi" simile ; but you know

jet.31.] correspondence. 453

what I mean ; and after having started it, I did not choose to

give up the chase.

Adieu. Yours sincerely,

A. Hamilton.

The members of the Convention in this city, by a majority
of nine or ten to one, will be : — John Jay, Eobert E. Livingston,
Richard Morris, John Sloss Hobart, James Duanc, Isaac liosevelt,
Richard Harrison, Nicholas Low, Alexander Hamilton.

G. Morris, Esq.

HAMILTON TO MADISON.

New-York, May VJ, 1788.

Some days since, I wrote to you, my dear sir, inclosing a
letter from a Mr. Vanderkemp, &c.

I then mentioned to you that the question of a majority for
or against the Constitution, would depend upon the County of
Albany. By the later accounts from that quarter, I fear much
that the issue there has been against us.

As Clinton is truly the leader of his party, and is inflexibly
obstinate, I count little on overcoming opposition by reason.
Our only chances will be the previous ratification by nine
States, which may shake the firmness of his followers ; and a
change in the sentiments of the people, which have, for some
time, been travelling towards the Constitution, though the first
impressions, made by every species of influence and artifice, were
too strong to be eradicated in time to give a decisive turn to the
elections. We shall leave nothing undone to cultivate a favor-
able disposition in the citizens at large.

The language of the Anti-federalists is, that if all the other
States adopt, New-York ought still to hold out. I have the
most direct intelligence, but in a manner which forbids a public
use being made of it, that Clinton has, in several conversations,
declared his opinion of the inutility of the Union. It is an un-
happy reflection, that the friends to it should, by quarrelling for
straws among themselves, promote the designs of its adversaries.

454 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 31.

We tliink liere that the situation of your State is critical. Let
me know what you now think of it. I believe you meet nearly
at the time we do. It will be of vast importance that an exact
communication should be kept up between us at that period ;
and the moment any decisive question is taken, if favorable, I
request you to dispatch an express to me with pointed orders to
make all possible diligence, by changing horses, &c. All ex-
pense shall be thankfully and liberally paid. I executed your
commands respecting the first volume of the Federalist. I sent
forty of the common copies and twelve of the finer ones, ad-
dressed to the care of Governor Eandolph. The printer an-
nounces the second volume in a day or two, when an equal
number of the two kinds shall also be forwarded. He informs
that the Judicial Department — Trial by Jury — Bill of Eights, &c.,
is discussed in some additional papers which have not yet ap-
peared in the Gazettes.

I remain,

With great sincerity and attachment,

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

James Madison.

HAMILTON TO MADISON.

New-York, June 8, 1788.

My Deae Sie:

In my last, I think, I informed you that the elections had
turned out, beyond expectation, favorable to the Anti-federal
party. They have a majority of two-thirds in the Convention,
and, according to the best estimate I can form, of about four-
sevenths in the community. The views of the leaders in this city
are pretty well ascertained to be turned towards a long adjourn-
ment ; say, till next spring or summer. Their incautious ones
observe, that this will give an opportunity to the State to see how
the government works, and to act according to circumstances.

My reasonings on the fact are to this effect : The leaders of
the party hostile to the Constitution are equally hostile to the
Union. They are, however, afraid to reject the Constitution at

^T. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 455

once, because that step would bring matters to a crisis between
this State and the States which had adopted the Constitution,
and between the parties in the State. A separation of the South-
ern District from the other parts of the State, it is perceived,
would become the object of the Federalists, and of the neigh-
boring States. They therefore resolve upon a long adjourn-
ment, as the safest and most artful course to effect their final
purpose. They suppose, that when the Government gets into
operation, it will be obliged to take some steps in respect to
revenue, &c., which will furnish topics of declamation to its
enemies in the several States, and will strengthen the minorities.
If any considerable discontent should show itself, they will stand
ready to head the opposition. If, on the contrary, the thing
should go on smoothly, and the sentiments of our own people
should change, they can elect to come into the Union. They
at all events take the chances of time and the chapter of acci-
dents.

How far their friends in the country will go with them, I am
not able to say, but, as they have always been found very ob-
sequious, we have little reason to calculate upon an uncom-
pliant temper in the present instance. For my own part, the
more I can penetrate the views of the Anti-federal party in this
State, the more I dread the consequences of the non-adoption of
the Constitution by any of the other States — the more I fear an
eventual disunion, and civil war. God grant that Virginia may
accede. The example will have a vast influence on our politics.
New Hampshire, all accounts give us to expect, will be an
assenting State.

The number of the volumes of the Federalist which you
desired, have been forwarded, as well the second as the first, to
the care of Governor Kandolph. It was impossible to correct a
certain error.

In a former letter, I requested you to communicate to me, by
express, the event of any decisive question in fiivor of the Consti-
tution, authorizing changes of horses, &c., with an assurance to
the person that he will be liberally paid for his diligence.

A. Hamilton.

James Madison.

456 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 31.

MADISON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, June 9, 1788.

Dear Sir :

The lieat of tlie weatlier, &c,, lias laid me up witli a bilious
attack : I am not able, tberefore, to saj more than a few words.

No material indications have taken place since my last. The
chance at present seems to be in our favor. But it is possible
things may take another turn, Oswald of Philadelphia came
here on Saturday ; and has closet interviews with the leaders of
the opposition.

Yours, affectionately,

J. Madison.
Alex. Hamilton, Esq.

EUFUS KING TO HAMILTON.

Boston, June 12, 1788.

Dear Sir :

I have made an arrangement to forward by express the result
of the Convention of New Hampshire to Springfield, in this
State, from which place Gen. Knox has engaged a conveyance
to you at Poughkeepsie. Those who are best informed of the
situation of the question, in New Hampshire, are positive that
the decision will be such as we wish, and from the particular
parts which I have heard, I can entertain no fear of a disappoint-
ment from that quarter. The accession of New Hampshire will
present the subject to your Convention in a new, and indeed, an
extraordinary light. I think your opponents, powerful as they
may be, will be greatly perplexed, although they may outnum-
ber you, and a small majority of the people of the State may be
on their side, yet I cannot think they will have the hardiness to
negative the question.

You may pronounce, with the utmost confidence, that the
decision of our Convention has j)roved entirely satisfactory to

iEx. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 457

our people. I have made a business of conversing Avitli men
from all parts of tlie State, and am completely satisfied that the
Constitution is highly popular ; that its opponents are now very
few, and those few hourly diminishing. Be assured that the
organization of the Government (by nine States, is considered as
certain), although a subject of delicacy, is most earnestly de-
sired, and from the conversation of both yeoman and politician,
I am persuaded, that the people of Massachusetts are sufficiently
mature and firm, to execute, so far as depends on them, what
shall be proper as good subjects of the new Government.

Farewell.

Yours, &c.,

RUFUS KlXG.

Col. A. Hamilton.

Pray mention to Knox that I should have written to him
had I not supposed him on his way here.

MADISON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, June 16, 1788.

Dear Sir :

Yours of the 8th has just come to hand. I mentioned in my
last that Oswald had been here in consultation with the Anti-
federal leaders. The contents of your letter confirm the idea
that a requisition for delay is on foot between the opposition
here and with you. We have conjectured for some days, that
the policy is to spin out the session, in order to receive over-
tures from your Convention ; or, if that cannot be, to weary the
members into an adjournment, without taking any decision. It
is presumed, at the same time, that they do not despair of carry-
ing the point of previous amendments, which is preferable game.
The parties continue to be nearly balanced. If we have a ma-
jority at all, it does not exceed three or four. If we lose it,

458 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

Kentucke will be the cause ; they are generally, if not unani-
mously against us.

I have been partially recovered since my last, but to-day
have a sort of relapse. My health is not good, and the business
is wearisome beyond expression. I wish you every happiness,
and

Am yours,

J. Madison, Jk.

H. LEE TO HAMILTON.

1788.

My Dear Sir:

Grod bless you and your efforts to save me from the manifold
misfortunes which have and continue to oppress me.

whenever I attempt to aid human nature. You will do what you
think best, and whatever you do I will confirm. * * -Jt *

has acted the part of a decided rascal, and if I fail in my right, I
may not in personal revenge.

Our Convention is in full debate on the great business of the
Federal Constitution. We possess, as yet, in defiance of great
overtures, a majority, but very small indeed.

A correspondence has certainly been opened through a Mr.
O. of PJiiladelphia, from the malcontents of P. and N. Y. to us.
It has its operation, but I believe we are still safe, unless the
question of adjournment be introduced, and love of home may
induce some of our friends to abandon their principles.

Adieu,

H. Lee.

MADISON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, June 20, 1788.

Dear Sir :

Our debates have advanced as far as the judiciary depart-
ment, against which a great effort is making. The appellate cog-
nizance of fact, and an extension of the power to causes between

tEt. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 459

citizens of different States, with some lesser objections, are the topics
chiefly dwelt on. The retrospection to cases antecedent to the
Constitution, such as British debts, and an apprehended revival
of the Fairfax, Indiana, Vandalia, &c., claims, arc also brought
into view in all the terrific colors which imagination can give
them. A few days more will probably produce a decision, though
it is surmised, that something is expected from your Convention
in consequence of the mission formerly suggested to you. Delay
and an adjournment will be tried, if the adverse party find their
numbers inferior, and can prevail on themselves to remain here
till the other side can be wearied into that mode of relieving
themselves. At present, it is calculated, that we still retain a
majority of three or four ; and if we can weather the storm
against the part under consideration, I shall hold the danger to
be pretty well over. There is nevertheless a very disagreeable
uncertainty in the case ; and the more so, as there is a possibility
that our present strength may be miscalculated.

Yours, affectionately,

J. Madison, Jr.

HAMILTON TO MADISON.

POUGHKEEPSIE, JullC, 1788.

Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 20th came to hand two days since. I re-
gret that your prospects are not yet reduced to greater certainty.
There is more and more reason to believe that our conduct will
be influenced by yours.

Our discussions have not yet travelled beyond the power of
taxation. To-day we shall probably quit this ground to pass to
another. Our arguments confound, but do not convince. Some
of the leaders, however, appear to be convinced by ciraimstances,
and to be desirous of a retreat. This does not apply to the chief,
who wishes to establish Clintonism on the basis of Anti-fede-
ralism.

I remain affectionately yours,

A. Hamilton.

460 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 31.

HAMILTON TO MADISON".

PouGHKEEPsiE, June 21, 1788.

Yesterday, my dear sir, the Convention made a House. That
day and this have been spent in preliminary arrangements. To-
morrow, we go into a committee of the whole on the Constitution.
There is every appearance that a full discussion will take place,
which will keep us together at least a fortnight. It is not easy to
conjecture what will be the result. Our adversaries greatly out-
number us. The leaders gave indications of a pretty desperate
disposition in private conversations pre\'ious to the meeting ; but
I imagine the minor joartisaus have their scruples, and an air of
moderation is now assumed. So far the thing is not despaired
of. A happy issue with you must have considerable influence
upon us. I have time to add nothing more than the assurances
of my sincere attachment.

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTOjST to MADISON.

PouGHKEEPsiE, Juue 21, 1788.

My Dear Sir :

I thank you for your letter of the 9th instant, and am glad to
learn that you think the chance is in your favor. I hope no dis-
agreeable change may appear. Yet, I own I fear something from
your indisposition.

Our debate here began on the clause respecting the propor-
tion of representation, &c., which has taken up two days. To-
morrow, I imagine, we shall talk about the power over elections.
The only good information I can give you is, that we shall be
some time together, and take the chance of events.

The object of the party at present is undoubtedly conditional
amendments. What effect events may have cannot precisely be
foreseen. I believe the adoption by New Hampshire is certain.

Yours, affectionately,

A. Hamilton".

^T. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 461

MADISON TO HAMILTON.

RiciiMO.vn, June 22, 1788.

Dear Sir :

The Judiciary Department lias been on tlie anvil for several
days, and I presume will still be a further subject of disquisition.
The attacks on it have apparently made less impression than was
feared. But they may be secretly felt by particular interests that
could not make the acknowledgment, and we choose to ground
their vote against the Constitution in other motives. In the
course of this week we hope for a close of the business in some
form or other. The opponents will probably bring forward a
bill of rights, with sundry other amendments, as conditions of
ratification. Should these fail, or be despaired of, an adjourn-
ment will, I think, be attempted. And in case of disappoint-
ment here also, some predict a secession. I do not myself con-
cur in the last apprehension, though I have thought it prudent
to withhold, by a studied fairness in every step on the side of the
Constitution, every pretext for rash experiments. The plan me-
ditated by the friends of the Constitution is to preface the ratifi-
cation with some plain and general truths that cannot affect the
validity of the act, and to subjoin a recommendation, which may
hold up amendments as objects to be pursued in the constitutional
mode. These expedients are rendered prudent by the nice bal-
ance of numbers, and the scruples entertained by some who are
in general well affected. AVhether they will secure us a majority,
I dare not positively to declare. Our calculations promise us
success by three or four, or possibly five or six votes. But were
there no possibility of mistaking the opinions of some, in re-
viewing those of so many, the smallness of the majority suggests
the danger from ordinary casualties, which may var}- the result.
It unluckily happens that our legislature, which meets at this
place to-morrow, consists of a considerable majority of Anti-
federal members. This is another circumstance that ought to
check our confidence. As individuals they may have some influ-
ence ; and, as coming immediately from the people at large, they

462 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

can give any color they please to the po^^ular sentiments at this
moment, and may in that mode throw a bias on the representa-
tives of the people in Convention.

Yours, affectionately,

J. Madison, Jr.

HAMILTON TO MADISON.

PouGHKEEPsiE, Friday morning, June 27, 1788.

A day or two ago. General Schuyler, at my request, sent for-
ward to you an express with an account of the adoption of the
Constitution by New Hampshire. We eagerly wait for further
intelligence from you, as our chance of success depends upon you.
There are some slight symptoms of relaxation in some of the
leaders, which authorizes a gleam of hope, if you do well, but

certainly I think not otherwise.

A. Hamilton.
To Hon. James Madison, Jr.

MADISON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, June 27, 1788.

My Dear Sir :

This day put an end to the existence of our Convention. The
inclosed is a copy of the Act of Ratification. It has been fol-
lowed by a number of recommendatory alterations, many of
them highly objectionable. One of the most so is an article pro-
hibiting direct taxes where effectual laws shall be passed by the
States for the purpose. It was impossible to prevent this error.
The minority will sign an address to the people. The genius of
it is unknown to me. It is announced as an exhortation to
acquiesce in the result of the Convention. Notwithstanding the

^T. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 463

fair propositions made by some, I am so imcliaritable as to sus-
pect, that the ill-will to the Constitution will produce every peace-
able effort to disgrace and destroy it. Mr. Henry declared, pre-
vious to the final question, that although he should submit as a
quiet citizen, he should wait with impatience for the favorable
moment of regaining, in a constitutional way^ the lost liberties of
his country. My conjecture is, that exertions will be made to
engage two-thirds of the legislatures in the task of regularly un-
dermining the Government. This hint may not be unworthy of
your attention.

Yours, affectionately,

J. Madison, Jr.

MADISON TO HAMILTON.

June 31, 1788.

Inclosed is the final result of our conventional deliberations.
The intended address of the minority proved to be of a nature
apprehended by me. It was rejected by the party themselves,
when proposed to them, and produced an aus])icious conclusion
to the business. As I shall set out in a few days for New-York,
I postpone further explanations. I have this instant the commu-
nications from New Hampshire via Poughkeepsie ; also, your
two favors of the 19th and 20th.

Yours, affectionately,

J. Madison, Jr.

HAMILTON TO ^[ADISON.

July 8, 1788.

My Dear Sir :

I felicitate you sincerely on the event in Virginia, but my sa-
tisfaction will be allayed if I discover too much facility in the
business of amendment-making. I fear the system will be

464 HAMILTON'S WORKS, [^x. 31.

wounded in some of its vital parts by too general a concurrence
in some very injudicious recommendations. I allude more parti-
cularly to the power of taxation. The more I consider requisition
in any shape, the more I am out of humor with it. We yester-
day passed through the Constitution, To-day some definitive
proposition is to be brought forward, but what we are at a loss to
judge. We have good reason to believe that our opponents are
not agTced, and this affords some ground of hope. Different
things are thought of — coiiditioivs precedent, or previous amend-
ments ; conditions subsequent, or the proposition of amendments,
upon condition that if they are not adopted within a limited time,
the State shall be at liberty to withdraiv from the Union ; and
lastly, recommendatory amendments. In either case, constructive
declarations will be carried as far as |)ossible. We will go as far
as we can in the latter without invalidating the act, and will con-
cur in rational recommendations. The rest for our opponents.
We are informed there has been a disturbance in the city of
Albany, on the 4th of July, which has occasioned bloodshed.
The Anti-federalists were the aggressors, and the Federalists the
victors. Thus stand our accounts at present. We trust, how-
ever, the matter has passed over, and tranquillity been restored.

Yours, affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MADISON.

PouGHKEEPsiE, Saturday, July, 1788.

I thank you, my dear sir, for yours by the post. Yesterday,
I communicated to Duer our situation, which I presume he will
have communicated to you. It remains exactly the same. No
further question having been taken, I fear the footing I men-
tioned to Duer is the best upon which it can be placed ; but
every thing possible will yet be attempted to bring the party
from that stand to an unqualified ratification. Let me know
your idea uj)on the possibility of our being received on that
plan. You will understand that the only qualification will be the

^T.31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 465

reservation of a right to recede, in case our amendments have not
been decided upon in one of the modes pointed out by the Consti-
tution within a certain number of years, perhaps five or seven. If
this can in the first instance be admitted as a ratification, I do
not fear any further consequences. Congress will, I presume,
recommend certain amendments to render the structure of the
Government more secure. This will satisfy the more considerate
and honest opposers of the Constitution, and with the aid of them
will break up the party.

Yours, affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

MADISOIsr TO HAMILTON".

New-York, Sunday evening.

My Deae Sir :

Yours, of yesterday, is this instant come to hand, and I have
but a few minutes to answer it. I am sorry that your situation
obliges you to listen to propositions of the nature you describe.
My opinion is, that a reservation of a right to withdraw, if amend-
ments be not decided on under the form of the Constitution within
a certain time, is a conditional ratification ; that it does not make
New- York a member of the new Union, and consequently that
she could not be received on that plan. Compacts must be re-
ciprocal— this princij)le would not in such a case be preserved.
The Constitution requires an adoption in toto andybr ever. It has
been so adopted by the other States. An adoption for a limited
time would be as defective as an adoption of some of the articles
only. In short, any condition whatever must vitiate the ratifica-
tion. What the new Congress, by virtue of the power to admit
new States, may be able and disposed to do in such case, I do not
inquire, as I suppose that is not the material point at present.
I have not a moment to add more than my fervent wishes for
your success and happiness. The idea of reserving a right to
withdraw was started at Eichmond, and considered as a condi-
tional ratification, which was itself abandoned as worse than a

rejection. Yours,

James Madison, Je.
VOL. I. 30

466 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 31.

CHIPMAN TO HAMILTON.

TiNMouTH, July 14, 1788.

Sir:

Your cliaracter as a federalist lias induced me, altliough, per-
sonally unknown to you, to address you on a subject of very
great importance to the State of Vermont, of whicli I am a
citizen, and from wliich. I think may be derived a considerable
advantage to the federal cause. Ten States have now adopted
the new federal plan of government. That it will now succeed
is beyond a doubt ; what disputes the other States may occasion
I know not. The people of this State, could certain obstacles
be removed, I believe, might be induced almost unanimously to
throw themselves into the federal scale. You are not unac-
quainted with the situation of a considerable part of our landed
jDroperty. Many grants were formerly made by the govern-
ment of New- York, of lands within this territory while under
that jurisdiction. On the assumption of government by the
people of this State, the same lands, partly, it is said, for want
of information respecting the true situation of these gi'ants, and
partly from the opinion prevailing with our then leaders, that
the New- York grants within this territory were of no validity,
have been granted to others under the authority of this State.

It is now generally believed that, should we be received into
the Union, the New- York grants would, in the federal courts, be
preferred to those of Vermont. The Legislature of this State
have in some instances made a compensation to the grantees
under New- York, and I am persuaded, were it in their power,
would gladly do the same for others, but they are possessed of
no more land for that purpose. For these reasons, I presume no
others, the Governor and some few gentlemen deeply interested
in those lands under Vermont, have expressed themselves some-
what bitterly against the new federal plan of government. In-
deed, were we to be admitted unconditionally it would introduce
much confusion. Now, sir, permit me to ask whether you do
not think it probable that the federal legislature, when formed,
might, on our accession, be induced on some terms to make a

^T.31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 46*7

compensation to tlie New- York grantees out of tlieir western
land ? And wlietlier those grantees might not be induced to
accept of such compensation ? Let me further suggest whether
it might be favorable for Vermont to make some of those
amendments, which have been proposed by several States, and
which, I think, are generally within the power of the federal
legislature, the basis of her admission. Could the difficulties I
have mentioned be removed, all interest in opposition could
here be reconciled. The idea of procuring justice to be done those
whom we had perhaps injured by our too precipitate measures,
and of being connected with a Government which promises to be
ef&cient, permanent, and honorable, would, I am persuaded, pro-
duce the greatest unanimity on the subject. If you think these
matters worthy the attention of the friends of the Confederacy,
be good enough to write me by my brother, who will be the
bearer of this.

Our Legislature will meet in October, when these matters
will be taken up seriously. Several gentlemen of my acquaint-
ance, who are men of influence, and will be members of the
Legislature, have requested me to procure all the information in
my power on this subject. Any thing you may communicate
to me in confidence will be sacredly attended to, of which Mr.
Kelly, who writes by the same opportunity, will give you the
fullest assurance.

I am. Sir, with sentiments of esteem.

Your most obedient servant,

Nathaniel CniPAiAiSr.
Alex. Hamilton, Esq.

HAMILTON TO CHIPMAN.

PouGHKEEPsiE, July 22, 1788.

Sir :

Your brother delivered me your favor, which I received with
pleasure, as the basis of a correspondence that may be produc-
tive of public good.

468 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

The accession of Yermont to tlie Confederacy is, doubtless,
an object of great importance to the whole; and it appears to
me that this is the favorable moment for effecting it upon the
best terms for all concerned. Besides more general reasons,
there are circumstances of the moment which will forward a
proper arrangement. One of the first subjects of deliberation
with the new Congress will be the independence of Kentucky,
for which the Southern States will be anxious. The Northern
will be glad to send a counterpoise in Vermont. These mutual
interests and inclinations will facilitate a proper result.

I see nothing that can stand in your way but the interfering
claims under the grants of New-York. As to taxation, the na-
tural operation of the new system will place you exactly where
you might wish to be. The public debt, as far as it can pru-
dently be provided for, will be by the Western lands and the
appropriation of some general fund. There will he no distribution
of it to ^particular parts of the community. The fund will be sought
for in indirect taxation ; as for a number of years, and except in
time of war, direct taxes would be an impolitic measure. Hence,
as you can have no objection to your proportion of contribution
as consumers, you can fear nothing from the article of taxation.

I readily conceive that it will hardly be practicable to you to
come into the Union unless you are secured from claims under
New-York grants. Upon the whole, therefore, I think it will
be expedient for you, as early as possible, to ratify the Constitu-
tion, " upon condition that Congress shall provide for the ex-
tinguishment of all existing claims to land under grants of the
State of New- York, which may interfere with claims under the
grants of the State of Yermont." You will do well to conform
your boundary to that heretofore marked out by Congress, other-
wise insuperable difliculties would be likely to arise with this
State.

I should think it altogether unadvisable to annex any other
conditions to your ratification ; for there is scarcely any of
the amendments proposed that will not have a party opposed
to it, and there are several that will meet with a very strong-
opposition; and it would, therefore, be highly inexpedient for

^T. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 469

you to embarrass your main object by any collateral difficul-
ties.

As I write in Convention, I have it not in my power to en-
large. You will perceive my general ideas on the subject. I
will only add, that it will be wise to lay as little impediment as
possible in the way of your reception into the Union.

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO IMADISON.

PouGHKKEPsiE, July 22, 1788.

Dear Sir:

I wrote to you by the last post, since which nothing material
has turned up here. We are debating on amendments without
having decided what is to be done with them. There is so great
a diversity in the views of our opponents that it is impossible to
predict any thing. Upon the whole, however, our fears di-
minish.

Yours affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

James Madison, jr.. New- York.

HAMILTON TO SAMUEL BROOME,

New-York, Aug. 6, 1788.

Dear Sir :

I have this moment received your letter of the thirteenth
ultimo, and am sorry that the rules of propriety in respect to
my situation, as a member of Congress, will not permit my act-
ing in the capacity you wish.

My situation for some time past has prevented my acknow-
ledging one or two of your favors, Avhich have been duly handed
to me. I recollect that one of them contains an inquiry concern-

4*70 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

ing your son, to wliicli you will naturally desire an answer. My

public avocations, for some time past, have put it out of my power

to ascertain the progress he has made ; though I expect, when

I shall be enough disengaged to examine, to find it a good

one. It cannot fail to be so, if his diligence has been equal to

his capacity. I shall shortly write you further on the subject.

With great esteem,

I remain, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
Mr. Samuel Broome.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

New-York, August 13, 1788.

Sir:

Captain Cochran of the British navy has requested my aid

in recovering a family watch in the possession of .

In compliance with his request, I have written the letter here-
with (to ), which I take the liberty to convey

through you, in hope that if you see no impropriety in it, you
would add your influence to the endeavor to gratify Captain
Cochran. It is one of those things in which the affections are
apt to be interested beyond the value of the object, and in which
one naturally feels an inclination to oblige.

I have delivered to Mr. Madison, to be forwarded to you, a
set of the papers under the signature of Publius, neatly enough
bound to be honored with a place in your library. I presume
you have understood that the writers of these papers are chiefly
Mr. Madison and myself, with some aid from Mr. Jay.

I take it for granted, sir, you have concluded to comply with
what will no doubt be the general call of your country in rela-
tion to the new Government. You will permit me to say that it
is indispensable you should lend yourself to its first operations.

^T. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 471

It is of little purpose to have introduced a system, if the weightiest
influence is not given to its firm establishment in the outset.
I remain with the greatest esteem,

Your obedient and humble servant,

A. Hamilton.

General Washington.

HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR LIVINGSTON.

New-York, August 29, 1788.

Dear Sir :

We are informed here, that there is some probability
that your Legislature will instruct your delegates to vote for
Philadelphia as the place of the meeting of the first Congress
under the new Government. I presume this information can
hardly be well founded, as upon my calculations, there is not a
State in the Union so much interested in having the temporary
residence at New- York, as New Jersey.

As between Philadelphia and New- York, I am mistaken if a
greater proportion of your State will not be benefited by having
the seat of government at the latter than the former place.

If at the latter, too, its exposed and eccentric position will
necessitate the early establishment of a permanent scat, and in
passing south, it is highly probable the Government would light
upon the Delaware in New Jersey. The Northern States do not
wish to increase Pennsylvania, by an accession of all the wealth
and population of the Federal City. Pennsylvania, herself,
when not seduced by immediate possession, will be glad to concur
in a situation on the Jersey side of the Delaware. Here are at
once a majority of the States ; but place the Government once
down in Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania will, of course, hold fast ;
the State of Delaware will do the same.

All the States south, looking forward to the time, when the
balance of population will enable them to carry the Government
further south (say to the Potomac), and being accommodated in

472 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

tlie mean time as well as they wisli, will concur in no change.
The Government, from the delay, will take root in Philadelphia,
and Jersey will lose all prospect of the Federal City within her
limits.

These appear to me calculations so obvious, that I cannot
persuade myself New Jersey will so much oversee her interest as
to fall, in the present instance, into the snares of Pennsylvania.
With the sincerest respect and regard,
I remain, dear Sir,

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

CHIPMAN" TO HAMILTON.

Newfane, Sept. 6, 1788.

Sir:

I have received by Capt. Yille, your favor of the 22d of
July. Since I wrote you, I have had an opportunity of convers-
ing with his Excellency, the Governor, and most of the council,
on the subject of Vermont's accession to the Confederacy. They
generally agree, that the terms suggested are good ; that it will
be highly the interest of Vermont to accede ; and that the pre-
sent is likely to be a favorable crisis. But it is a question
whether we ought to make any projDOsitions to the present Con-
gress, or prepare matters, and wait the new arrangement. Ver-
mont will not make a point of introducing any amendments.
We shall not be the first to feel the inconveniences, if any should
arise, from the exercise of the new federal powers. For myself,
I readily conceive, that direct taxation, under the new system,
will be very inconsiderable during the continuance of peace ; yet
I find an exemption from the expenses of the late war will have
with the citizens of this State a very powerful effect in producing
unanimity on the subject of a Union.

But I hope this matter will in some way be compromised. If,
sir, you have any thing to suggest on this subject, that may pro-

^T. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 473

mote tlie public good, I should be very bappy in tbe communi-
cation, previous to tbe session of Assembly in October next.
The choice of representatives, which was on Tuesday last, has, as
far as I have heard, succeeded favorably. Mr. Kelly, who is so
obliging as to take charge of this letter, will be able to give you
a more particular account than can be done in this way, as he
has conversed largely with the Governor, Council, and other
persons of influence, with whom he has great weight.
I am, Sir,

With much esteem and respect,
Your most obedient servant,

Nathl. Chipman.
A. Hamilton, Esq.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, September, 1788.

Dear Sir :

Your Excellency's friendly and obliging letter of the 28th
ultimo, came safely to hand. I thank you for your assurance of

seconding my application to General •. The truth of that

affair is, that he purchased the watch for a trifle of a British
soldier, who plundered Major Cochran, at the moment of his fall,
at Yorktown.

I should be deeply pained, my dear sir, if your scruples in
regard to a certain station, should be matured into a resolution
to decline it ; though I am neither surj^rised at their existence,
nor can I but agree in opinion, that the caution you observe, in
deferring an ultimate determination, is prudent. I have, how-
ever, reflected maturely on the subject, and have come to a
conclusion (in which I feel no hesitation), that every public and
personal consideration will demand from you an acquiescence in
what will certainly be the unanimous wish of your country.
The absolute retreat which you meditated at the close of the
late war was natural, and proper. Had the Government pro-

474 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

duced by the revolution, gone on in a tolerable train, it would
have been most advisable to have persisted in that retreat. But
I am clearly of opinion, that the crisis which brought you again
into public view, left you no alternative but to comply ; and I
am equally clear in the opinion, that you are by that act pledged
to take a part in the execution of the Government. I am not
less convinced, that the impression of this necessity of your
filling the station in question, is so universal, that you run no
risk of any uncandid imputation by submitting to it. But even
if this were not the case, a regard to your own reputation, as
well as to the public good, calls upon you in the strongest
manner, to run that risk.

It cannot be considered as a compliment to say, that on
your acceptance of the ofiice of President, the success of the new
Government, in its commencement, may materially depend.
Your agency and influence will be not less important in pre-
serving it from the future attacks of its enemies, than they
have been in recommending it in the first instance, to the adop-
tion of the people. Independent of all considerations drawn
from this source, the point of light in which you stand at home
and abroad, will make an infinite difference in the respectability
with which the Government will begin its operations, in the
alternative of your being or not being at the head of it. I for-
bear to urge considerations which might have a more personal
application. What I have said will suffice for the inferences
I mean to draw.

First. In a matter so essential to the well-being of society,
as the prosperity of a newly instituted government, a citizen of
so much consequence as yourself to its success, has no option
but to lend his services if called for. Permit me to say, it
would be inglorious, in such a situation, not to hazard the glory,
however great, which he might have previously acquired.

Secondly. Your signature to the proposed system, pledges
your judgment for its being such an one as, upon the whole, was
worthy of the public approbation. If it should miscarry (as
men commonly decide from success, or the want of it), the
blame will, in all probability, be laid on tlie system itself; and

.Et. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 475

tlie framers of it will have to encounter tlie disrepute of having
brought about a revolution in government, without substituting
any thing that was worthy of the effort. They pulled down one
Utopia, it will be said, to build up another. This view of the
subject, if I mistake not, my dear sir, will suggest to your mind
greater hazard to that fame, which must be and ought to be dear
to you, in refusing your future aid to the system, than in afford-
ing it. I will only add, that in my estimate of the matter, that
aid is indispensable.

I have taken the liberty to express these sentiments, and to
lay before you my view of the subject. I doubt not the con-
siderations mentioned, have fully occurred to you, and I trust
they will finally produce in your mind the same result which
exists in mine. I flatter myself, the frankness with which I
have delivered myself will not be displeasing to you. It has
been prompted by motives which you would not disapprove.
I remain, my dear Sir,

With the sincerest respect and regard,
Your obedient and humble servant,

A. Hamilton.

STEUBEN TO HAMILTON.

Le 5 de Sept. 1788.

Monsieur,

La lettre c'y joint de Mr. E. Peters, contienne une preuve, non
equivoque, que dans mes premieres applications ct immediate-
ment apres la paix, j'ai apj^uye mes pretentions aux E. U. sur
une stipulation ou contract foit en entrant dans leur service.

Comme vous 6tiez de cette meme committee a Philadelphie,
je m'en rapporte a votre memoire. Dans tons les committees
subsequentes j'ai toujours appuye sur ce meme contract, et je me
rapporte a tons les Messieurs qui successivement furent dcs com-
mittees sur ce sujet.

476 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 31.

Comnie vous etes de la presente Congres, je vous prie de
commuuiquer la reporte de Mr. Peters a cette committee.

J'ai riionneur d'etre avec affection,
Monsieur,

Yotre tres liumble,

STEUBE]Sr.

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO THEODORE SEDGWICK.

New-York, Oct. 9, 1788.

" Your last letter but one met me at Albany attending court,
wlience I am just returned. I am sorry for tlie scliism you hint
at among tlie Federalists, but I have so mucb confidence in tlie
good management of tlie fast friends of tlie Constitution, tliat I
liope no ill consequences will ensue from tbat disagreement. It
will, however, be worthy of great care to avoid suffering a differ-
ence of opinion on collateral points, to produce any serious divi-
sion between those who have hitherto drawn together on the
great national question. Permit me to add, that I do not think
you should allow any line to be run between those who wish to
trust alterations to future experience, and those who are desirous
of them at the present juncture. The rage for amendments is,
in my opinion, rather to be parried by address than encountered
with open force ; and I should therefore be loth to learn that
your parties had been arrayed professedly upon the distinction
I have mentioned.

The mode in which amendments may best be made, and
twenty other matters, may come as pretexts for avoiding the evil,
and securing the good.

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

iET. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 477

HAMILTON TO CHIPMAN.

1788.

Sir:

Your favor of the 6tli of September has been duly banded to
me, and I receive great pleasure from the hopes you appear to
entertain of a favorable turn of affairs in Vermont in regard to
the new Government. It is certainly an object of mutual impor-
tance to yourselves, and to the Union, and well deserves the best
endeavors of every discerning and good man.

I observe with satisfaction your opinion that Vermont mil
not make a point of introducing amendments. I mean as a con-
dition of her accession. That ground would be the most hazard-
ous which she could venture upon, as it is very jDrobable that
such amendments as might be popular with you would be
deemed inadmissible by the friends of the system, who will
doubtless be the most influential persons in the national councils ;
and who would rather submit to the inconvenience of your being
out of the Union, till circumstances should alter, than consent to
any thing that might impair the energy of the Government. The
article of taxation is, above all, the most delicate thing to meddle
with ; for as pleyiary power in that respect must ever be consi-
dered as the vital principle of government, no abridgment or
constitutional suspension of that power can ever, upon mature
consideration, be countenanced by the intelligent friends of an
effective National Government. You must, as I remarked in my
former letter, rely upon the natural course of things, which I am
satisfied will exempt you in ordinary times from direct taxation,
on account of the difficulty of exercising it in so extensive a
country, so peculiarly situated, with advantage to the revenue or
satisfaction to the people. Though this difficulty Avill be gradu-
ally diminished from various causes, a considerable time must
first elapse ; and, in the interim, you will liave nothing to appre-
hend on this score.

As far as indirect taxation is concerned, it will be impossible
to exempt you from sharing in the burthen, nor can it be desired

478 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

by yonr citizens. I repeat these ideas to impress you the more
strongly with my sense of the danger of touching this chord, and
of the impolicy of perplexing the main object with any such col-
lateral experiments, while I am glad to perceive that you do
not think your people will be tenacious on the point.

It will be useless for you to have any view in your act to the
present Congress. They can of course do nothing in the matter.
All you will have to do, will be to pass an act of accession to the'
new Constitution, on the conditions upon which you mean to
rely. It will then be for the new Government, when met^ to
declare whether you can be received on your terms or not. '

I am sorry to find that the affair of boundary is likely to create
some embarrassment. Men's minds, every where out of your
State, are made up upon and reconciled to that which has been
delineated by Congress. Any departure from it must beget new
discussions, in which all the passions will have their usual scop' ,
and may occasion greater impediments than the real importance
of the thing would justify. If, however, the further claims you
state cannot be gotten over with you, I would still wish to see
the experiment made, though with this clog, because I have it
very much at heart that you should becqine a member of the
Confederacy. It is, however, not to be inferred that the same
disposition will actuate every body. In this State, the pride of
certain individuals has too long triumphed over the public inte-
rest; and in several of the Southern States a jealousy of North-
ern influence will prevent any great zeal for increasing in the
national councils the number of Northern votes.

I mention these circumstances (though I dare say they will
have occurred to you), to show you the necessity of moderation
and caution on your part, and the error of any sanguine calcula-
tion upon a disposition to receive you at any rate. A supposi-
tion of this nature might lead to fatal mistakes.

In the event of an extension of your boundary beyond the
Congressional line, would it be impracticable for you to have
commissioners appointed to adjust any differences which might
arise? I presume the principal object with you in the extension
of your boundary would be to cover some private interests. This
might be matter of negotiation.

iET. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 479

There is one thing which I think it proper to mention to you,
about which I have some doubt ; that is, wliether a legislative
accession would be deemed valid. It is the policy of the system
to lay its foundations in the immediate consent of the people. You
will best judge how far it is safe or practicable to have recourse
to a convention. Whatever you do, no time ought to be lost.
The present moment is undoubtedly critically favorable. Let it
by all means be improved. I remain, with esteem, Sir,

Your obedient and humble servant,

A. Hamilton.

Nathaniel Chi^Dman, Esq.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mo0NT Vernon, October 3, 1788.

Dear Sir:

In acknowledging the receipt of your candid and friendly

letter of by the last post, little more is incumbent on me

tban to thank you sincerely for the frankness with which you
communicated your sentiments ; and to assure you that the same
manly tone of intercourse will always be more than barely wel-
come. Indeed, it will be highly acceptable to me. I am par-
ticularly glad, in the present instance, you have dealt thus freely
and like a friend.

Although I could not help observing from several publica-
tions and letters, that my name had been sometimes spoken of,
and that it was j)ossible the contingency which is the subject of
your letter might haj)pen ; yet I thought it best to maintain a
guarded silence and to back the counsel of my best friends (which
I certainly hold in the highest estimation), rather than to hazard
an imputation unfriendly to the delicacy of my feelings. For,
situated as I am, I could hardly bring the question into the
slightest discussion, or ask an opinion, even in the most confi-
dential manner, without betraying, in my judgment, some im-
propriety of conduct, or without feeling an appreheusiou that a

480 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

premature display of anxiety might be construed into a vain-
glorious desire of pushing myself into notice as a candidate.
Now, if I am not grossly deceived in myself, I should unfeign-
edly rejoice in case the Electors, by giving their votes in favor
of some other person, would save me from the disagreeable
dilemma of being forced to accept or refuse. If that may not
be, I am in the next place earnestly desirous of searching out
the truth, and of knowing whether there does not exist a proba-
bility that the Government would be just as happily and effectu-
ally carried into execution without my aid as with it. I am
truly solicitous to obtain all the previous information, which the
circumstances will afford, and to determine (when the determi-
nation can with propriety be no longer postponed) according to
the principles of right reason and the dictates of a clear con-
science, without too great a reference to the unforeseen conse-
quences which may affect my person or reputation. Until that
period, I may fairly hold myself open to conviction, though I
allow your sentiments to have weight in them ; and I shall not
pass by your arguments without giving them as dispassionate a
consideration as I can joossibly bestow on them.

In taking a survey of the subject in whatever point of light
I have been able to place it, I will not suppress the acknow-
ledgment, my dear sir, that I have always felt a kind of gloom
upon my mind as often as I have been taught to expect I might,
and perhaps must, ere long be called to make a decision. You
will, I am well assured, believe the assertion (though I have
little expectation it would gain credit from those who are less
acquainted with me), that if I should receive and act under the
appointment, the acceptance would be attended with more difii-
dence and reluctance than ever I experienced before in my life.
It would be, however, with a fixed and sole determination of
lending whatever assistance might be in my power to promote
the public weal, in hopes that, at a convenient and an early
period, my services might be dispensed with, and that I might
be permitted once more to retire, to pass an unclouded evening
after the stormy day of life, in the bosom of domestic tran-
quillity.

iET.31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 481

But why these anticipations ? If the friends of the Consti-
tution conceive that my administering the Government will be
the means of its acceleration and strength, is it not probable that
the adversaries thereof may entertain the same ideas, and of
course make it an object of opposition? That many of this
description will be amongst the Electors, I have no more doubt
than I have of the part they will act at the election, Avhich will be
adverse to the choice of any character who, from whatever cause,
would be likely to thwart their views. It might be impolitic
perhaps in them to make this declaration previous to the election,
but I shall be out in my conjectures if they do not act confor-
mably thereto at it, and prove that all the seeming moderation by
which their present conduct is marked, is calculated to lull and
deceive. Their plan of opposition is systematized, and a regular
intercourse between the leaders of it in the several States (I have
much reason to believe) is formed to render it more effectual.
With sentiments of sincere regard and esteem,
I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant,

Geokge Washingtox.
The Hon. Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO THEODOEE SEDGEWICK.

New-York, October 9, 1788.

I thank you, my dear sir, for your obliging congratulations
on the event towards effecting which your aid as a joint laborer
was so essential. I hoj^e experience may show that, while it
promotes the interest of this j^lace, it will not be incompatible
with public good. We are making efforts to prepare handsome
accommodations for the session of the new Congress.

On the subject of Vice-President, my ideas have concurred
with yours, and I believe Mr. Adams will have the votes of this
State. He will certainly, I think, be preferred to the other
VOL. I. 31

482 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 31.

gentleman. Yet certainly is perhaps too strong a word. I can
conceive that the other, who is supposed to be a more pliable
man, may command anti-federal influence.

The only hesitation in my mind with regard to Mr. Adams
has arisen within a day or two, from a suggestion by a particular
gentleman that he is unfriendly in his sentiments to General
Washington. Eichard H. Lee, who will probably, as rumor
now runs, come from Virginia, is also in this style. The Lees
and Adams's have been in the habit of uniting, and hence may
spring up a cabal very embarrassing to the Executive, and of
course to the administration of the government. Consider this,
— sound the reality of it, and let me hear from you.

What think you of Lincoln or Knox? This is a flying
thought.

Yours, with sincere regard,

A. Hamilton.

Mr. Sedgewick.

SEDGEWICK TO HAMILTON.

Stockeridge, Oct. 16, 1788.

My Dear Sir :

Your favor of the 9th I have this moment received, and de-
tain the post a while that I may make a very few observations
on a subject I conceive highly interesting to the efficient opera-
tions of the future Government.

Mr. Adams was formerly infinitely more democratical than
at present, and possessing that jealousy which always accom-
panied such a character, he was averse to repose such unlimited
confidence in the Commander-in-chief as then was the disposi-
tion of Congress.

Mr. Adams is not among the number of my jjarticular
friends, but, as a man of unconquerable intrepidity, and of in-
corruptible integrity, as greatly experienced in the interests and
character of this country, he possesses my highest esteem.

His writings show that he deserves the confidence of those

Mt.31.] correspondence. 483

wlio wish energy in government, for although those writings are
too tedious and unpleasant in perusal, yet they are evidently the
result of deep reflection, and as they encounter popular preju-
dices are an evidence of an erect and independent spirit.

Lincoln and Knox I love, their characters, too, I respect, but
it is now too late to push in this State the interests of either.
The minds of all men here seem to be fixed either on Adams or
Hancock.

Our Legislature meet on the 29th. From Boston I will

early write you on the subject, and am with sincere respect,

Yours, afiectionatel}^,

Theodore Sedgewick.
Hon. Mr. Hamilton.

sedgewick to HAMILTON.

Boston, Nov. 2, 1788.

My Deae Sir :

In my last hasty letter I engaged to write to you soon after
my arrival in this town. Various questions will be agitated in
the Legislature (of considerable magnitude) which respect the
organization of the government.

There is a party of Federalists who are of opinion, that the
Electors should be chosen by the people, and the Eepresentatives
not in districts, but at large. These will be joined by all the
antis probably. I yet hope they will not succeed. We yester-
day committed to a committee of both Houses the circular letter
from your Convention. The event is u.ncertain, but a consider-
able number of Federalists have been brought over to the amend-
ment system. The prospect is, notwithstanding, that the real
friends of the Constitution will prevail. Every thing depends
upon it, and the exertion will be proportionate to the magnitude
of the object.

Should the Electors be chosen by the Legislature, Mr. Adams
will probably combine all the votes of Massachusetts. I am very

484 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

certain, that tlie suggestion that he is unfriendly to General

Washington, is entirely unfounded. Mr. Hancock has been very

explicit in patronizing the doctrine of Amendment. The other

gentleman is for postponing the conduct of that business until it

.shall be understood from experience. '^' * '"" *

I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

Theodoee Sedgewick.
The Hon. Mr. Hamilton.

COL. OLNEY TO HAMILTON".

Providence, 3d Nov., 1788.

Dear Sir :

Your favor of 6th ulto., was duly received. I thought pro-
per to postpone replying to it till after the session of the General
Assembly should be over, which terminated on Saturday night
last, in order that I might have it in my power to give you, with
more certainty, the proceedings of the Legislature, on the subject
of the New Constitution. The minority, both in of the

House, took unwearied pains during the session, to procure a
Convention in the legal mode pointed out for considering the
New Constitution ; but, sir, it proved, as heretofore, an unsuc-
cessful attempt; for Mr. Hazard, who is an implacable and
powerful enemy to the new system, and the leading character in
all the vile pohtics carrying on in this devoted State, had so well
prepared the majority, that when the question was put, whether
this State should appoint a Convention or not, the question was
lost nearly three to one ; fifteen in favor of the motion and forty-
four against it. After which (late on Saturday night) Mr.
Hazard moved that a vote be passed, for printing copies of the
circular letter from the Convention of New-York, to be distri-
buted throughout this State, and submitting to the people at
large, the propriety of appointing delegates to meet a p'02:)osed
Convention, for considering amendments, agreeably to the re-

.Et. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 485

commendations of said circular letter. The vote being put, after
much debate, it was carried in favor of the measure by three to
one, notwithstanding every exertion of the minority, to prevent
the adoption of so novel and unprecedented a proceeding. It
was urged, and with truth, that should a Convention finally meet
for the purpose of amending the Constitution, that it would be
composed entirely of the adopting States ; and, as such, this
State could not, upon any principles of right, expect to be ad-
mitted to a seat in that Honorable Body, as we so obstinately
(and with our eyes open) have refused, and still neglect to
accede to the new system. But, sir, reason and argument will
avail nothing with those wicked and designing opposers to a
just and honorable Federal Government. The Assembly have
made an adjournment to the last Monday in December next, in
an expectation to hear the report from the respective towns.
Mr. Hazard, and a Col. John Gardener (who is entirely under
the influence of Mr. Hazard's politics), are ordered by the Assem-
bly to go on from this State, and take their seats in Congress, as
soon as they can leave home ; so that in a short time you will
have those two antis to deal with.

I am, with sincere esteem,
Sir,
Your obedient humble serv't,

Jeremiah Olney.
Col. Alexander Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, Nov. G, 1788.

Dear Sir :

The Count de Moustier affording a very fovorable convey-
ance for Capt. Cochran's watch, I have requested the favor of
him to take charge of it ; and he will deliver it to you, accord

486 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

ingly, with Mrs. Washington's and my best wishes for you and
Mrs. Hamilton.

I am, dear Sir,

Your obedient and affectionate serv't,

Gr. WASHINGTOISr.
The Hon. Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO SEDGEWICK.

New-York, Nov. 9, 1788.

Your last letter but one met me at Albany, attending court,
from whence I am but just returned. Yours of the 2d instant is
this moment handed me.

I am very sorry for the schism you hint at among the Fede-
ralists, but I have so much confidence in the good management
of the fast friends of the Constitution, that I hope no ill conse-
quences will ensue from that disagreement. It will, however,
be worthy of great care to avoid suffering a difference of opinion
on collateral points, to produce any serious division between
those who have hitherto drawn together on the great national
question.

Permit me to add, that I do not think you should allow any
line to be run between those who wish to trust alterations to
future experience, and those who are desirous of them at the
present juncture. The rage for amendments is, in my opinion,
rather to be parried by address than encountered with open force.
And I shall, therefore, be loth to learn that your parties have
been arranged professedly upon the distinction I have mentioned.
The mode in which amendments may best be made, and twenty
other matters, may serve as pretexts for avoiding the evil and
securing the good.

On the question between Ih. H. and Mr. A., Mr. King will
probably have informed you that I have, upon the whole, con-

iEx. 31.J CORRESPONDENCE. 487

eluded that tlie latter ouglit to be supported. My measures %vill
be taken accordingly, I had but one scruple, but alter mature
consideration I have relinquished it. Mr. Adams, to a sound
understanding, has always appeared to me to add an ardent love
for the public good ; and as his further knowledge of the world
seems to have corrected those jealousies which he is represented to
have been once influenced by, I trust nothing of the kind suggested
jn my former letter will disturb the harmony of administration.
Let me continue to hear from yon, and believe me to be, with
very great esteem and regard,

Your friend and servant,

A. Uamilton.
T. Sedgewick, Esq.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTOX.

November 18, 1788.

Dear Sir :

Your last two letters have duly come to hand, and the
Count de Moustier has delivered me the watch you committed
to his charge. Your obliging attention to this matter claims my
particular acknowledgments. I will make no apology for ask-
ing you to take the additional trouble of forwarding the inclosed
to the General. I take the liberty of passing it through you,
that you may, by perusing the contents, know the situation of
the business.

The demand of fifty guineas is to me quite unexpected. I
am sorry to add, that there is too good evidence that it cost a
mere trifle to the General. This, however, I mention in confi-
dence. Nor shall I give you any further trouble on the subject.
Whatever may be proper will be done.

Mrs. Hamilton requests her affectionate remembrances to
Mrs. "Washington, and joins me in the best wishes for you
both.

I remain, dear Sir,

Your affectionate humble serv't,

A. ILVMILTOX.

488 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^x. 31.

P. S. Your last letter, on a certain subject, I liave received.
I feel a conviction tliat you will finally see your acceptance to
be indispensable. It is no compliment to say, tliat no other man
can sufficiently unite the public opinion, or can give the requisite
weight to the office, in the commencement of the Government.
These considerations appear to me of themselves decisive. I
am not sure that your refusal would not throw every thing into
confusion. I am sure that it would have the worst effect imagin-
able. Indeed, as I hinted in a former letter, I think circum-
stances leave no option.

HAMILTON TO MADISON".

New- York, Nov. 23 1788.

I thank you, my dear sir, for yours of the 20th. The only
part of it which surprises me, is what you mention respecting
Clinton. I cannot, however, believe that the plan will succeed.
Nor, indeed, do I think, that Clinton would be disposed to ex-
change his present appointment for that office, or risk his popu-
larity by holding both. At the same time, the attempt merits
attention, and ought not to be neglected as chimerical or imprac-
ticable.

In Massachusetts the Electors Avill, I understand, be ap-
pointed by the Legislature, and will be all Federal, and 'tis
probable will be, for the most part, in favor of Adams. It is
said, the same thing will happen in New Hampshire, and I have
reason to believe, will be the case in Connecticut. In this State
it is difficult to form any certain calculation. A large majority
of the Assembly was doubtless of an Anti-federal complexion,
but the schism in the party which has been occasioned by the
falling off of some of its leaders in the Convention, leaves me not
without hope, that if matters are well managed, we may procure
a majority for some pretty equal compromise. In the Senate we
have the superiority by .one. In New Jersey there seems to be
no question, but that the complexion of the electors will be

iET. 31.] CORRESPONDENCE. 489

Federal; and I suppose, if thought expedient, they may be
united in favor of Adams. Pennsylvania you can best judge of.
From Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina, I presume, we
may count with tolerable assurance on Federal men; and I
should imagine, if pains are taken, the danger of an Anti-federal
Vice-President might itself be rendered the instrument of Union.
At any rate, their weight will not be thrown into the scale of
Clinton, and I do not see from what quarter numbers can be
marshalled in his favor, equal to those who will advocate Adams,
supposing even a division in the Federal votes.

On the whole, I have concluded to support Adams, though I
am not without apprehensions on the score we have conversed
about. My principal reasons are these : First — He is a declared
partisan of deferring to future ex]3erience the expediency of
amendments in the system, and (although I do not altogether
adept this sentiment) it is much nearer my own than certain
other doctrines. Secondly — He is certainly a character of im-
portance in the Eastern States ; if he is not Vice-President, one of
two worse things will be likely to happen. Either he must be
nominated to some important office, for which he is less proper,
or will become a malcontent, and give additional weight to the
opposition to the Government. As to Knox, I cannot jjcrsuade
myself that he will incline to the appointment. He must sacri-
fice emolument by it, which must be of necessity a primary object
with him.

If it should be thought expedient to endeavor to unite in a
particular character, there is a danger of a different kind to
which we must not be inattentive — the possibility of rendering
it doubtful who is appointed President. You knoAV the Consti-
tution has not provided the means of distinguishing in certain
cases, and it would be disagreeable even to have a man treading
close upon the heels of the person we wish as President. May
not the malignity of the opposition be, in some instances, exhib-
ited even against him? Of all this we shall best judge, when
we know who are our Electors ; and wc must, in our dillercnt
circles, take our measures accordingly.

I could console myself for what you mention respecting your-

490 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 32.

self, from a desire to see you in one of the executive depart-
ments, did I not perceive the representation will be defective in
characters of a certain description. Wilson is evidently out of
the question. King tells me he does not believe he will be
elected into either House. Mr. Gouverneur Morris set out to-day
for France, by way of Philadelphia. If you are not in one of
the branches, the Government may sincerely feel the want of
men who unite to zeal all the requisite qualifications for parry-
ing the machinations of its enemies. Might I advise, it would
be, that you bent your course to Virginia.

Affectionately yours,

A. Hamilton.
Mr. J. Madison.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Monday morning, January 4, 1789.

Dear Sir :

I feel myself very much obliged by what you sent me yester-
day. The letter from Governor Johnston I return, much pleased
to find so authentic an account of the adoption by North Caro-
lina of the Constitution.

Yours, sincerely and affectionately,

G. Washington.

HAMILTON TO SEDGEWICK.

New-York, Jan. 29, 1789.

My Dear Sir :

I thank you for your two letters of the 4th and 7th instant,
which arrived here during my absence at Albany, from which
place I have but recently returned. I believe you may be per-
fectly tranquil on the subject of Mr. Adams's election. It seems
to be certain that all the Middle States will vote for him to Dela-

iET. 32.] CORRESPONDENCE. 491

ware inclusively, and probably Maryland. In the South, there
are no candidates thought of but Eutledge and Clinton. The
latter will have the votes of Virginia, and it is possible some in
South Carolina. Maryland will certainly not vote for Clinton,
and New -York, from our Legislature having by their contentions
let slip the day, will not vote at all. For the last circumstance,
I am not sorry, as the most we could hope would be to balance
accounts and do no harm. The Anti-federalists incline to an ap-
pointment notwithstanding, but I discourage it with the Federal-
ists. Under these circumstances, I see not how any person can
come near Mr. Adams ; that is, taking it for granted that he will
unite the votes in New Hampshire and Massachusetts. I expect
that the Federal votes in Virginia, if any, will be in favor of
Adams.

You will probably have heard that our Legislature has passed
a bill for electing Eepresentatives. The houses continue to dis-
agree about Senators, and I fear a compromise will be impracti-
cable. I do not, however, entirely lose hope. In this situation,
you will jjerceive that we have much to apprehend respecting
the seat of Government. The Pennsylvanians are endeavoring
to bring their forces early in the field. I hope our friends in the
North will not be behindhand. On many accounts, indeed, it
appears to be important that there be an ajjpearance of zeal and
punctuality in coming forward to set the Government in motion.
I shall learn with infinite pleasure that you are a Eepresenta-
tive. As to me, this will not be the case — I believe, from my
own disinclination to the thing. We shall, however, I flatter
myself, have a couple of Federalists.

I remain your affectionate and obedient,

A. ILVMILTOX.

492 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 32.

WADSWORTH TO HAMILTON.

Hartford, February, 1789.

My Dear Sir :

Your favor of tlie 25tli January came in good time. Our
votes were given agreeably to your wislies — Washington, 7;
Adams, 5 ; Governor Iluntington, 2. By letters from Carring-
ton, I learn tliat Clinton is tlie Anti-federal Yice-president ; but I
think we have nothing to fear, I believe 'New Hampshire will
give Adams 4 ; Massachusetts, 6 ; Georgia, 6 — as letters from
Georgia say he will have at least so many — ^which, with ours,
makes 21, which is more than Clinton can get, and we may cer-
tainly reckon on three more for Adams in South Carolina, Mary-
land, Delaware, Penn^lvania, and New Jersey. We waived an
answer to your State, and to Virginia. As you did not get my
letter in season to answer me on that subject, I feared we should
not do any good by an answer ; and as the Anti-federalists did
not move it, I thought we had best let it sleep. * * *

I am, dear sir.

Your affectionate friend,

Jeremiah Wadsworth.

END of vol. i.


===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 2) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander02hami/worksofalexander02hami_djvu.txt

}

HAMILTON'S WORKS.

VOL. II.

I

THE WORKS

OF

ALEXANDER HAMILTON:

0OMPBI8ING

HIS CORRESPONDENCE,

AND

HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WBITIN*

EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST,

CIVIL AND MILITABT.

PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

BY ORDER OF

THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OJ CONOR]

EDITED BY

JOHN C. HAMILTON',

AT7THOR OF "THE LIFE OF HAMILTON

• •

.

VOL. IL

r^ou u

NEW VnllK: "--ALJ

JOHN F. TROW, PRINTER, 19, 51 A N AW-STi:

M.DCCC.L.

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850, by

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southernn

District of New- York.

■» •

• . « • - • .

..•:■•
• •• . •

: ••■. .• -.- •

Two modes of editing these "Works presented themselves:
one, the publication of them in chronological series, without
distinction of subject or character; another, the publication of
all the correspondence consecutively, according to d;ite, and
a similar but distinct disposition of the other writings. On
reflection, I have preferred a third course : that of comprising
in a separate volume the correspondence, and in another, the
remaining writings, which precede the organization of the present
Constitution of the United States. As that correspondence and
those writings chiefly relate to that important epoch in our
history, this seemed to be a natural point of division.

In the future volumes, a similar distribution will be observed,
with this difference : the classification of the official papers accord-
ing to their subjects and dates, to be followed by the residue of
the correspondence, as in part arising out of, or explanatory of
these papers. The publication to close with the writings not
official.

J. C. H.

New-York, Oct. 12, 1850.

JEt. 17.]

A FULL VINDICATION.

December J 5, 1774.

A Full Vindication of the Measures of Congress from the
calumnies of their enemies, in answer to a Letter un-
der the signature of a Westchester Farmer; whereby
his sophistry is exposed, his cavil* confuted, his a/rti-
jices detected, and his wit ridiculed, in a General
Address to the inhabitants of America, and a Parti-
cular Address to the Farmers of the Province of
New-York. Veritas magna est et prevalebit — Truth
is powerful and will prevail New-York : printed by
James Rivington : 1774.

Friends and Countrymen:

It was hardly to be expected that any man could be so pre-
sumptuous, as openly to controvert the equity, wisdom, and
authority of the measures adopted by the Congress: an assembly
truly respectable on every account ! Whether we consider the
characters of the men who composed it; the number and dignity
of their constituents ; or the important ends for which they were
appointed. But, however improbable such a degree of pr< sump-
tion might have seemed, we find there are some in whom it
exists. Attempts are daily making to diminish the influence of

VOL. II. 1

HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 17.

their decisions, and prevent the salutary effects intended by
them. The impotence of such insidious efforts is evident from
the general indignation they are treated with; so that no ma-
terial ill-cmiscqnences can be dreaded from them. But lest they
should have a tendency to mislead, and prejudice the minds of a
few, it cannot be deemed altogether useless to bestow some

ice upon them.

And first, let me ask these restless spirits, "Whence arises
that violent antipathy they seem to entertain, not only to the
natural rights of mankind, but to common sense and common
modesty? That they are enemies to the natural rights of man-
kind is manifest, because they wish to see one part of their
- enslaved by another. That they have an invincible
a version to common sense, is apparent in many respects : They
endeavor to persuade us, that the absolute sovereignty of parlia-

nt does not imply our absolute slavery; that it is a Christian
duty to submit to be plundered of all we have, merely because
some of our fellow subjects are wicked enough to require it of
us ; that slavery, so far from being a great evil, is a great bless-
ing ; and even, that our contest with Britain is founded entirely
upon the petty duty of three pence per pound on East India tea ;
whereas the whole world knows, it is built upon this interesting
question, AVhether the inhabitants of Great Britain have a right
to dispose of the lives and properties of the inhabitants of Ame-
rica, or not ? And lastly, that these men have discarded all preten-
se >n to common modesty, is clear from hence ; first, because they,
in tin ■ plainest terms, call an august body of men, famed for their
patriotism and abilities, fools or knaves; and of course the peo-
ple whom they represented, cannot be exempt from the same
opprobrious appellations; and secondly, because they set them-
selves up as standards of wisdom and probity, by contradicting
and censuring the public voice in favor of those men.

A little consideration will convince us, that the Congress,
instead of having " ignorantly misunderstood, carelessly neglect-
ed, or basely betrayed the interests of the colonies," have, on the
contrary, devised and recommended the only effectual means to

me tin- freedom, and establish the future prosperity of Ame-

JEt. 17.] A P DLL VINDICATION.

rica apon a solid basis. If we are qoI free and happy hereafl
it nrasl proceed from the want of integrity and resolution, in
executing what they have concerted; qo1 from the temerity or
impolicy of their determinations.

Before I proceed to confirm this assertion by the ] »bvi-
ous arguments, I will premise a few brief remarks. The only
distinction between freedom and slavery consists in this: In the
former state a man is governed 1>\ the laws to which he has
given his consent, either in person, or by his representative : In
the latter, he is governed by the will of another. In the i
rase, his life and property arc his own : in the other, they depend
apon tin' pleasure of a master. It is easy to discern which of
these two states is preferable. No man in his senses can hesitate
in choosing to be free, rathci- than a slave.

That Americans are entitled to freedom is incontestable apon
every rational principle. All men have one common original :
they participate in one common nature, and consequently have
one common right. Xo reason can be assigned why one man
should exercise any power or pre-eminence over his fellow-crea-
tures more than another; unless they have voluntarily vested
him with it. Since, then, Americans have not, by any act of
theirs, empowered the British Parliament to make lawsfor them,
it follows they can have no just authority to do it.

Besides the clear voice of natural justice in this respect, the
fundamental principles of the English constitution are in our
favor. It has been repeatedly demonstrated, that the idea of
Legislation, or taxation, when the subject is not represented, is
inconsistent with that Nor is this all; our charters, the ex-
press conditions on which our progenitors relinquished their
native countries, and came to settle in this, preclude every claim
of ruling and taxing us without our assent.

Every subterfuge that sophistry has been able to invent, to
evade or obscure this truth, has been refuted by the most con-
clusive reasonings; so that we may pronounce it a matter of
undeniable certainty, that the pretensions of Parliament are con-
tradictory to the law of nature, subversive of the British consti-
tution, and destructive of the faith of the most solemn compa

4 HANILTON'S WORKS. [JEt.11.

What, then, is the subject of our controversy with the mother
country?' It is this: Whether we shall preserve that security
to our lives and properties, which the law of nature, the genius
of the British constitution, and our charters, afford us ; or whe-
ther we shall resign them into the hands of the British House of
Commons, which is no more privileged to dispose of them than
the Great Mogul? What can actuate those men who labor to
delude any of us into an opinion, that the object of contention
between the parent state and the colonies, is only three pence
duty upon tea? or that the commotions in America originate in
a i>ian, formed by some turbulent men, to erect it into a repub-
lican government? The Parliament claims a right to tax us in
all cases whatsoever: its late acts are in virtue of that claim.
Eow ridiculous, then, is it to affirm, that we are quarrelling for
the trifling sum of three pence a pound on tea ; when it is evi-
dently the principle against which we contend.

The design of electing members to represent us in general
Congress, was, that the wisdom of America might be collected
in devising the most proper and expedient means to repel this
atrocious invasion of our rights. It has been accordingly done.
Their decrees are binding upon all, and demand a religious ob-
servance.

We did not, especially in this province, circumscribe them by
any fixed boundary ; and therefore, as they cannot be said to
have exceeded the limits of their authority, their act must be
esteemed the act of their constituents. If it should be objected,
that they have not answered the end of their election, but have
fallen upon an improper and ruinous mode of proceeding, I reply
by asking, Who shall be the judge? Shall any individual op-
pose ■ his ] irivate sentiment to the united counsels of men, in whom
America has reposed so high a confidence? The attempt must
argue no small degree of arrogance and self-sufficiency.

Yet this attempt has been made ; and it is become, in some
measure, accessary to vindicate the conduct of this venerable
assembly from the aspersions of men, who are their adversaries,
only because' they are foes to America.

When the political salvation of any community is depending,

JEt. 17.] A FULL VINDICATION.

it is incumbenl upon those who are sel ap as its guardians, to
embrace such measures as bave justice, vigor, and a probability
of success to recommend them. 1 1'. instead of this, thej I
those methods which arc in themselves feeble, and little likely to
succeed; and may, through a defect in vigor, involve the com-
munity in still greater danger, they may be justly considered as
its betrayers. It is not enough, in times of imminenl peril,
oae only possible means of preservation. Justice and Bound
policy dictate the use of probable means.

The only scheme of opposition, suggested by those who hai
been and are averse from a non-importation and non-exportation
agreement, is, by remonstrance and petition. The authors
and abettors of this scheme have never been able to inventa
single argumehl to prove the likelihood of its succeeding. On
the other band, there are many standing facts and valid conside-
rations against it.

In the infancy of the present dispute, we had recourse to
this method only. We addressed the throne in the most loyal
ami respectful manner, in a legislative capacity; but what was
the consequence? Our address was treated with contempt and
neglect. The first American Co did the same, andmet

with similar treatment. The total repeal of the .-tamp act, and

the partial repeal of the revenue acts, took place, not 1 ause

the complaints of America were deemed just and reasonable, but
because these acts were found to militate against the commercial
interests of I rreat Britain. This was the declared motive of the
repeal.

These instances are sufficient for our purpose ; hut they de-
rive greater validity and force from the following:

The legal assembly of Id tusetts Hay presented, not long

since, a most bumble, dutiful, and earnesl petition to bis May
requesting the dismission of a governor highly odious to the

] pie, and whose misrepresentations they regarded as one chief

source of all their calamities. Did they succeed in their requ
No — it was treated with the greatesl indignity, and stigmal I
a seditious, is, and scandalous libel."

I know the men 1 have to deal with will acquiesce in this

6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 17.

Will t hey also dare to calumniate the noble and spirited
petition thai came from the Major and Aldermen of the city of

„ 1, ,ii. Will 1 hey venture to justify that unparalleled stride of

,vi-r l'V whirl) popery and arbitrary dominion were established
in Canada? The citizens of London remonstrated against it;
thrv signified its repugnancy to the principles of the revolution;
but, like ours, their complaints were unattended to. From
thence we may learn how little dependence ought to be placed
on this method of obtaining the redress of grievances.

There is less reason now than ever to expect deliverance, in
this way, from the hand of oppression. The system of slavery,
fabricated against America, cannot, at this time, be considered as
the effect of inconsideration and rashness. It is the offspring of
mature deliberation. It has been fostered by time, and strength-
ened by every artifice human subtilty is capable of. After the
claims of parliament had lain dormant for awhile, they are again
resumed and prosecuted with more than common ardor. The
I 'render has advanced too far to recede with safety. He is deeply
interested to execute his purpose, if possible. We know he has
declared, that he will never desist, till he has brought America
to his feet ; and we may conclude, nothing but necessity will
induce him to abandon his aims. In common life, to retract an
emir, even in the beginning, is no easy task; perseverance con-
firms ua in it, and rivets the difficulty. But in a public station,
to have been in an error, and to have persisted in it, when it is
detected, ruins both reputation and fortune. To this we may
add, that disappointment and opposition inflame the minds of
men, and attach them still more to their mistakes.

What can we represent which has not already been repre-
sented? What petitions can we offer, that have not already
been offered? The rights of America, and the injustice of
parliamentary pretensions, have been clearly and repeatedly

ted, both in and out of parliament. No new arguments can
be framed to operate in our favor. Should we even resolve the
errors of the ministry and parliament into the fallibility of hu-
man understanding, if they have not yet been convinced, we
have no prospect of being able to do it by any thing further we

JEt. 17.] A FULL VINDICATION. 7

can Bay. Bui if we impute their condud to a nicked thirsl of
domination and disregard to justice, we have do hope of pre-
vailing with them to alter it, by expatiating on our i and
suing to their compassion for relief; especially since we have
found, by various experiments, the inemcacj of Buch methods.
Dpon the whole, il is morally certain, this mode of opposition
would be fruitless and defective. The exigency of the times
requires vigorous and probable remedies ; ao1 weak and impro-
bable. It would, therefore, be the extreme of folly t" place any
confidence in, much less confine ourselves wholly to it.

T is being the case, we can have no resource bu1 in a restric-
tion of our trade, or in a resistance met armis. It is impossible
to conceive any other alternative. Our ( 'ongre&s, therefore, bave
imposed whal restraint they thought necessary. Those who con-
demn or clamor against it, do nothing more, nor less, than ad-
vise us to be slaves.

1 shall now examine the principal measures of the Cong]
and vindicate them I'm 11 \ from the charge of injustice or impolicy.

Were I to ariruc in a jiliili>soj>liical manner, I mighl Bay, the
obligation to a mutual intercourse, in the way of trade, with the
inhabitants of Great Britain, [reland, and the Wesl Ladies, is
the imperfect kind. There is ao law, either of nature, or of tin-
civil society in which we live, thai obliges us to purchase, and
make use of the products and manufactures of a differenl land or

pie. It is indeed a dictate of humanity to contribute to the
supporl and happiness of our fellow-creatures, and more especially
those who arc allied to us by the ties of blood, interest, and mu-
tual protection ; bu1 humanity <\>>r< nol require us to sacrifice our
own security and welfare to the convenience or advantage of
others. Self-preservation is the 6rs1 principle of our nature.
WTien our lives and properties are at stake, it would be foolish
and unnatural to refrain from such measures as mighl preserve
them, because they would be detrimental to others.

But we are justilied upon another principle besides this.
Though the manufacturers of < rreal Britain and [reland, and the
inhabitants of the Wesl [ndies, are nol chargeable with any i
tual crime towards America; they may, in a political view, be

> HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 17.

ostccmcil criminal. In a civil society, it is the duty of each par-
ticular branch to promote, not only the good of the whole com-
inunitv, but the good of every other particular branch. If one
pari endeavors to violate the rights of another, the rest ought to
assist in preventing the injury. "When they do not, but remain
neutral, they are deficient in their duty, and may be regarded,
in some measure, as accomplices.

The reason of this is obvious, from the design of civil society ;
which is, that the united strength of the several members might
give stability and security to the whole body, and each respective
member ; so that one part cannot encroach upon another, without
becoming a common enemy, and eventually endangering the
safety and happiness of all the other parts.

Since, then, the persons who will be distressed by the me-
thods we are using for our own protection, have, by their neu-
trality, first committed a breach of an obligation, similar to that
which bound us to consult their emolument ; it is plain, the ob-
ligation upon us is annulled, and we are blameless in what we
are about to do.

With respect to the manufacturers of Great Britain, they are
criminal in a more particular sense. Our oppression arises from
that member of the great body politic, of which they compose a
considerable part. So far as their influence has been wanting to
counteract the iniquity of their rulers, so far they acquiesced in
it, and are to be deemed confederates in their guilt. It is impos-
sible to exculpate a people, that suffers its rulers to abuse and ty-
rannize over others.

It may not be amiss to add, that we are ready to receive with
open arms any who may be sufferers by the operation of our
measures, and recompense them with every blessing our country
affords to honest industry. We will receive them as brethren,
and make them sharers with us in all the advantages we are
struggling for.

From these plain and indisputable principles, the mode of op-
position we have chosen, is reconcileable to the strictest maxims
of justice. It remains now to be examined, whether it has also
the sanction of good policy.

JEt. 17.] A PULL VINDICATION. 9

To render it agreeable to good policy, three thii [ui«

.-it'-. First, that the necessity of the times requires it: dly,

thai it be nol the probable source of greater evila than those it
pretends to remedy; and lastly, thai it have a probability of

success.

Thai the necessity of the times demands it, needs bu1 little
elucidation. We are threatened with absolute slavery. It has
been proved, thai resistance by means of remonstb
petition, would not be efficacious, and of course, thai a restric-
tion on our trade, is tin' only peaceable method in our power to
avoid the impending mischief. It follows, therefore, thai such u
restriction is necessary.

That it is no1 the probable source of greater evils than ti
it pretends to remedy, may easily be determined. rJ*h.- mosl
jed slavery, which comprehends almosl every species of human
misery, is what it is designed to prevent.

The consequences of the means are a temporary stagnation of
commerce, and thereby a deprivation of the luxuries, and some
of the conveniences of life. The necessaries and many of
oonveniei v own fertile and propitious soil affords ns.

X" person thai has enjoyed the sweets of liberty, can be in-
dole of its infinite value, or can reflect on its reverse, without
horror and detestation. No person thai is nol losl to every
nerous feeling of humanity, or that is nol stupidly blind to his
own interest, could bear to offer himself and postei I victims
at the shrine of despotism, in preference to enduring the short-
lived inconveniences thai may resull from an abridgment, or
even entire suspension of commerce.

Were nol the disadvantages of slavery too <>l>viou- tand
in need of it. I might enumerate and describe the tedious train <>f
calamities inseparable from it. I might show that it is fatal to
religion and morality; that it tends to debase the mind, and
corrupt its noblest springs of action. 1 mighl show thai it
laxes the sinews of industry, clips the wings immerce, and

introduces misery and indigence in every shape.

Under the auspices of tyranny, the life of the subji
sported with, and the fruits of his daily toil arc I in op.

Ill HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. M.

pressive taxes, that serve to gratify the ambition, avarice, and
lusts of his superiors. Every court minion riots in the spoils of
the honest laborer, and despises the hand by which he is fed.
The page of history is replete with instances that loudly warn us
to beware of slavery.

Ko:ui<: was the nurse of freedom. She was celebrated for her
justice and lenity ; but in what manner did she govern her de-
pendent provinces ? They were made the continual scene of
rapine and cruelty. From thence let us learn, how little confidence
is due to the wisdom and equity of the most exemplary nations.

Should Americans submit to become the vassals of their fel-
low-subjects in Great Britain, their yoke will be peculiarly griev-
ous and intolerable. A vast majority of mankind is entirely
1 liassed by motives of self-interest. Most men are glad to remove
any burthens off themselves, and place them upon the necks of
their neighbors. We cannot, therefore, doubt but that the Bri-
tish Parliament, with a view to the ease and advantage of itself
and its constituents, would oppress and grind the Americans as
much as possible. Jealousy would concur with selfishness ; and
for fear of the future independence of America, if it should be
permitted to rise to too great a height of splendor and opulence,
every method would be taken to drain it of its wealth, and re-
strain its prosperity. We are already suspected of aiming at
independence, and that is one principal cause of the severity we
experience. The same cause will always operate against us, and
produce a uniform severity of treatment.

The evils which may flow from the execution of our mea-
sures, if we consider them with respect to their extent and dura-
tion, are comparatively nothing. In all human probability they
will scarcely be felt. Eeason and experience teach us, that the
consequences would be too fatal to Great Britain to admit of
delay. There is an immense trade between her and the colonies.
The revenues arising from thence are prodigious. The con-
sumption of her manufactures in these colonies, supplies the
means of subsistence to a vast number of her most useful inha-
bitants. The experiment we have made heretofore, shows us of
how much importance our commercial connection is to her ; and

JEt. 17.] A FULL VINDICATION. 11

gives us the highest assurance of obtaining Immediate redress by
suspending it.

From these considerations it is evidenl she musl do something
decisive. She must either listen to our complaints, and restore
us to a peaceful enjoymenl of our riolated rights; o be must
exert berself to enforce ber despotic claims by Ore and sword.
To imagine sin- would preferthe latter, implies a charge of the

-i infatuation, of madness itself. Our numbers are \
considerable; the courage of Americans bas been tried and
proved. Contests for liberty have ever been found the □
bloody, implacable, and obstinate. The disciplined tri Great
Britain could send againsl us. would be bul few. Our superi-
ority in number would overbalance our inferiority in discipline.
Jt would be a hard, if no1 impracticable task, to subjugate as by
force.

Besides, while Great Britain w:is eii^aned in carrying on an
unnatural war againsl us, ber commerce would be in a state of
decay. Her revenues would be decreasing. An armament, suf-
ficient to enslave America, would pul her to an insupportable
expense.

She would he laid open to the attacks of foreign enem
Ruin, like a deluge, would pour in from every quarter. After

lavishing her 1»1 1 and ti to reduce us to a state of "\

Balage, she would berself become a prey to some triumphant
neighbor.

These are not imaginary mischiefs. The Colonies contain
above three millions of people. Commerce flourishes with the
most rapid progress throughout them. This commerce Ghreal
Britain has hitherto regulated to ber own advantage. Can we

think the annihilation of SO exub rant a source (.('wealth a mat-
ter of trifling import? On the contrary, must it not be produc-
tive of the most disastrous effects? It is evident it must It is
equally evident, that the conquesl of .-,> numerous a peo]
armed in the animating cause of liberty, could not he accom-
plished without an inconceivable expense of blood and treasure.

We cannot, therefore, suspeel Ghreat Britain to be capabl
such frantic extravagance as to hazard these dreadful

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 17.

quenccs; without which, she must necessarily desist from her
unjusl pretensions, and leave us in the undisturbed possession of
our privileges.

Those who affect to ridicule the resistance America might
make to the military force of Great Britain, and represent its hu-
miliation as a matter the most easily to be achieved, betray either
;i mind clouded by the most irrational prejudices, or a total igno-
rance of human nature. However, it must be the wish of every
honest man never to see a trial.

But should we admit a possibility of a third course, as our
pamphleteer supposes ; that is, the endeavoring to bring us to a
compliance by putting a stop to our whole trade; even this
would not be so terrible as he pretends. We can live without
trade of any kind. Food and clothing we have within ourselves.
Our climate produces cotton, wool, flax, and hemp ; which, with
proper cultivation, would furnish us with summer apparel in
abundance. The article of cotton, indeed, would do more ; it
would contribute to defend us from the inclemency of winter.
We have sheep, which, with due care in improving and increas-
ing them, would soon yield a sufficiency of wool. The large
quantity of skins Ave have among us, would never let us want a
warm and comfortable suit. It would be no unbecoming em-
ployment for our daughters to provide silks of their own coun-
try. The silk- worm answers as well here as in any part of the
world. Those hands, which may be deprived of business by the
cessation of commerce, may be occupied in various kinds of ma-
nufactures and other internal improvements. If, by the neces-
sity of the thing, manufactures sjiould once be established, and
take root among us, they will pave the way still more to the fu-
ture grandeur and glory of America; and, by lessening its need
of external commerce, will render it still securer against the en-
ci'oachments of tyranny.

It is, however, chimerical to imagine, that the circumstances
of Great Britain will admit of such a tardy method of subjuga-
ting us, for reasons which have been already given, and which
shall be corroborated by others equally forcible.

I come now to consider the last and principal ingredient that

St. n.] a IT i.i, VINDICATION. 18

constitutes the policy of a measure, which is, a probability
success. I have beeu obliged to anticipate this pari ofr
ject in considering the second requisite; and, indeed, whal I
have already said, seems to me to leave no room for doubting,
thai the means we have used will be successful ; bul I shall !
examine the matter more thoroughly, and endeavoT to •■•. id
more fully.

The design of the Congress in their proc lings, h cannot,

and need no1 be denied, was, either, by a prosped of the
consequences, to influence the ministry to give up their enter-
prise; or, should they prove inflexible, to affect the inhabitants
of Greal Britain, Ireland, and the Wesl Indies, in such a man-
ner as to rouse them from their state of neutrality, and enj
them to unite with us in opposing the lawless hand of tyrai
whirl, is extended to ravish our liberty from us, and mig] I
be extended for the same purpose againsl them.

The Farmer mentions, as one probable consequen* four

measures, "clamors, discord, confusion, mobs, riots, insm
tions, rebellions in Greal Britain, Ireland, and the Wesl I d
though a1 the same time that he thinks it is, he also thi]

■ a probable consequence. For my part, without hazarding
any such seeming contradictions, I .-hall, in a plain way,
thai I verily believe, a non-importation and non-exportation,
will effed all the purposes they are intended tor.

It is no easy matter to make any tolerably < tate <>t'

the advantages thai accrue to Great Britain, Ireland, and
West Indies, from their comnu Trial intercourse with the colo-
nies : nor, indeed, is it, i, . Every man, the 1'
quainted with the state and extent of our trade, mi ■■ con-
vinced, it is the source of immense revenues to the parei
and gives employment and bread to a vasl number of bis !
jesty's subjects. It is impossible but thai a suspension of it.
any time, musl introduce beggary and wretchedness, in an emi-
nenl degree, both in England and Ireland. An • the W
India plantations, they could nol possibly subsisl withoul is. I
am the more confident of this, because I have a | era!
acquaintance with their circumstances and depend

14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 17.

We are told, " that it is highly improbable, we shall succeed
in distressing the people of Great Britain, Ireland, and the West
J in lies, so far as to oblige them to join with us in getting the acts
of Parliament, which we complain of, repealed. The first dis-
tress," it is said, "will fall on ourselves; it will be more se-
verely felt by us, than any part of all his Majesty's dominions,
and will affect us the longest. The fleets of Great Britain com-
mand respect throughout the globe. Her influence extends to
every part of the earth. Her manufactures are equal to any,
superior to most in the world. Her wealth is great. Her peo-
ple enterprising and persevering in their attempts to extend, and
enlarge, and protect her trade. The total loss of our trade will
be felt only for a time. Her merchants would turn their atten-
tion another way ; new sources of trade and wealth would be
opened ; new schemes pursued. She would soon find a vent for
all her manufactures in spite of all we could do. Our malice
would hurt only ourselves. Should our schemes distress some
branches of her trade, it would be only for a time ; and there is
ability and humanity enough in the nation to relieve those that
are distressed by us, and put them in some other way of getting
their living."

The omnipotence and all-sufficiency of Great Britain may be
pretty good topics for her passionate admirers to exercise their
declamatory powers upon, for amusement and trial of skill ; but
they ought not to be proposed to the world as matters of truth
and reality. In the calm, unprejudiced eye of reason, they are
altogether visionary. As to her wealth, it is notorious that she is
oppressed with a heavy national debt, which it requires the ut-
most policy and economy ever to discharge. Luxury has ar-
rived to a great pitch ; and it is a universal maxim, that luxury
indicates the declension of a state. Her subjects are loaded with
the most enormous taxes. All circumstances agree in declaring
their distress. The continual emigrations from Great Britain
and Ireland to the continent, are a glaring symptom that those
kingdoms are a good deal impoverished.

The attention of Great Britain has hitherto been constantly
awake to expand her commerce. She has been vigilant to ex-

JEt. 17.] A PULL VINDICATION. 15

plore every region with which it mighl be her int. ■■!.•.

One of the principa] branches of her commerce is with th< i
nics. These colonies, aa they are now settled and peopled, 1
been the work of near two centuries. They arc blessed with
every advantage of soil, climate, and situation. They have ad-
vanced with an almosl incredible rapidity. It is, therefore, an
egregious piece of absurdity to affirm, thai the loss of our trade
would be fell for a time i which must signify ;i short time).
No new schemes could be pursued thai would nol requir<
least, as much time to repair the loss of our trade, as was B]

in bringing it to its presenl degr< f perfection, which is near

two centuries. Nor ••an it be reasonably imagined, that the total
and sudden loss of so extensive and lucrative a branch, would
no1 produce the mosl violenl effects to a nation thai subsists en-
tirely upon its commerce.

It is said, "there is ability and humanity enough in the na-
tion, to relieve those thai are distressed by as, and to put them
into some other way of getting their livii I wish the gentle-

man had obliged his readers so much as to have pointed out this
other way. 1 must confess, I have racked my brains to no pur-
pose to discover it ; and I am fully of opinion it is purely ideal.
B 3ides the common mechanic arts, which arc subservient t<> the
ordinary uses of life, and which arc the instruments of commerce,
I know no other ways, in time of peace, in which men can be

ployed, except in agriculture and the liberal arts. I'
employed in the mechanic arts, are those whom the abridgment
of commerce would immediately affect : and as to such branches

mighl I"- less affected, they are already sufficiently stocked
with workmen, and could give bread to no more. Nol onlj
bu1 I can't see by what legerdemain, a weaver, or clothier, could
be at once converted into a carpenter or blacksmith. With
sped to agriculture, the lands of Grreal Britain and Ireland b
been long ago distributed and taken up; dot do they require any
additional laborers to till them, bo that there could be no employ-
menl in this way. The liberal arts cannot maintain those who
are already <!,■ voted to them; i<"' to £ , it if more than pn

16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 17.

ble, the generality of mechanics would make but indifferent phi-
losophers, poets, painters, and musicians.

What poor shifts is sophistry obliged to have recourse to!
We are threatened with the resentment of those against whom
our measures will operate. It is said, that " instead of concilia-
ting, we shall alienate the affections of the people of Great Bri-
tain ; of friends, we shall make them our enemies." And fur-
ther, that "we shall excite the resentment of the government
at home against us, which will do us no good, but, on the con-
trary, much harm."

Soon after, we are told, that "we shall probably raise the re-
sentment of the Irish and West Indians. The passions of human
nature," it is said, " are much the same in all countries. If they
find ns disposed wantonly to distress them, to serve our own
purposes, they will look out for some method to do without us.
Will they not look elsewhere for a supply of those articles they
used to take from us ? They would deserve to be despised for
their meanness, did they not."

To these objections I reply, first, with respect to the inhabi-
tants of Great Britain : that if they are our friends, as is supposed,
and as we have reason to believe, they cannot, without being
destitute of rationality, be incensed against us, for using the only
peaceable and probable means in our power, to preserve our in-
vaded rights. They know, by their own experience, how fruit-
less remonstrances and petitions are. ■ They know we have tried
them, over and over, to no purpose. They know also how dan-
gerous to their liberties the loss of ours must be. What, then,
could excite their resentment, if they have the least regard to
common justice? The calamities that threaten them proceed
from the weakness or wickedness of their own rulers, which
compels us to take the measures we do. The insinuation, that
we wantonly distress them, to serve our own purposes, is futile,
and unsupported by a single argument. I have shown, we could
have no other resource ; nor can they think our conduct such,
without a degree of infatuation that it would be impossible to
provide against, and therefore useless to consult. It is most rea-
sonable to believe, they will revenge the evils they may feel, on

^t. 17.] \ PULL VINDICATION

IT

foe true authors of them; on an aspiringand ffl-judged ministry-
n<-t on us, whoactoul of a melancholy aecessity, and are the in'
noivnt causes m self-defei

w,,h »'"sl"''-' to foe ministry, it is certain, thai an tl
whirl, has a tendency to frustrate their designs, will ,„., fej] ^

excite their displeasure. But since we have aothing | .,„,.,,

from their justice and lenity, it can be no objection I
foal it tends to stir up their resentment Bui their resentment
(it is of,,.,, said) may run, as. The impossibility ofd thai
withoul a1 the same time ruining Greal Britain, is a sufficient
curity. '

The Bame may be said with regard to the [rish and the Vv"es1
[ndians, which has been said concerning the people ofGreai I

tarn. The [rish, in particular, In- thru- own circumstai - will

be teughl to sympathize with us, ami commend our conducl
Justice will direct their resentment to its proper objects.

It is true, self-love will prompt both the Irish and the West
Indians to take every method in their power to escape the mise-
ries they are in danger of. But what methods can they tal
"Thelrish," it is said, " may be supplied with flax-seed from
Holland, the Baltic, and the river St. Lawrence. Cai la pro-
duces no inconsiderable quantity already." And as to the V\
Indies, "they produce dow many of the accessaries of life ]
quantity may be easily increased. Canada will famish them
with many articles they aow take from us; flour, lumber, hoi
&c. Georgia, the Floridas, and the Mississippi, abound in Lum-
ber; Nova Seotia in fish."

The Dutchare rivalstothe English in their commerce. Thi
make large quantities of fine linens, gauze, laces, etc, which re-
quire the tlaxtobe picked before it comes to seed; for whirl,

-on. it is not in theirpower to raise much more s 1 than they

want for their own ose. [reland has always had the surplus
from them They could, if they were ever so willing, enlarge their

usual supplies but very little. It is, ind 1, probable they i

withhold them. They may cl se to improve th jcasioE

the advancement of their own trade. They may take advant

b 2

18 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 17.

of the scarcity of materials in Ireland, to increase and pnt off
their own manufactures.

The Baltic has ever supplied Ireland with its flax ; and she
has been able to consume that, with all she could derive from
other quarters.

As to Canada, I am well informed, it could at present afford
but a very inconsiderable quantity. It has had little encourage-
ment, hitherto, to raise that article ; and, of course, has not much
attended to it. The instances mentioned, of seed being "bought
up there at a low price, brought to New-York, and sold to the
Irish factors at a great advance," does not prove there is any quan-
tity raised there. Its cheapness proceeds from there being no
demand for it ; and where there was no demand, there was no
inducement to cultivate it.

Upon the whole it appears, that the supplies of flax-seed,
which Ireland might draw elsewhere, could be trifling, in com-
parison with those received from us, and not at all equivalent to
her wants. But if this were not the case ; if she might procure
a sufficiency without our help ; yet could she not do without us.
She would want purchasers for her linens after they were manu-
factured ; and where could she find any so numerous and wealthy
as we are ? I must refer it to the profound sagacity of Mr. A
W. Farmer to explore them. It is too arduous a task for me.

Much less could the West Indies subsist independent of us.
Notwithstanding the continual imports from hence, there is sel-
dom, or ever, in any of the Islands, a sufficient stock of provi-
sions to last six months, which may give us an idea how great
the consumption is. The necessaries they produce within them-
selves, when compared with the consumption, are scarcely worth
mentioning. Yery small rjortions of the land are appropriated to
the productions of such necessaries ; indeed, it is too valuable to
admit of it. Nor could the quantity be increased to any material
degree, without applying the whole of the land to it. It is alleged,
that " Canada will furnish them with flour, lumber, horses, &c,"
and that Georgia, the Floridas, and Mississippi, abound in lum-
ber; Nova Scotia in fish." These countries have been all along
carrying on a trade to the West Indies as well as we ; and can

Mt. 17.] A FUM, VINDICATION, 19

it be imagined that, alone, they will be able to rapply them I
rably? The Canadians have been indolent, and have not im-
proved their country as they oughl to have done. The wheal
they raise a1 present, over and above whal thej tun
for themselves, would be found to go but little way among the
islands. Those who think the contrary, musl have mistaken ac-
tions ofthem. They must be unapprised of the number of souls
they contain. Almost every one hundred and fifty, or two hun-
dred, acres of land, exclusive of populous towns, comprehends
hundred people. It is not a small quantity of food thai will
suffice for so many. Ten or fifteen years' diligence, I grant,
mighl enable Canada, to perform what is now expected from her*
but, in the moan time, the Wesl Indians might have the satisfac-
tion of starving.

To suppose the best ; which is, that by applying their cane-
lands to the purpose of procuring sustenance, they may preserve
themselves from starving : still, the consequences musl be very
serious or pernicious. The wealthy planters would but ill relish
the loss of their crops: and such ofthem as were considerably
in debt, would be ruined. At any rate, the revenues of Great
Britain would suffer a vasl diminution.

The Farmer, I am inclined to hope, builds too much upon
the present disunion of Canada, Georgia, the Bloridas, the Mis-
sissippi, and Nova Scotia, from other colonies. A little time, I
trust, will awaken them from their slumbers, ami bring them to
a proper sense of their indiscretion. 1 please myself with the
flattering prospect, that they will, ere long, unite in one indis-
soluble chain with the rest of the colonies. 1 cannot believe,

they will persist in such a conduct, as must exclude them from
the secure enjoyment of those heaven-descended immunities we

are contending for.

There is one argument 1 have frequently heard urged, which
it maybe of some use to invalidate. It is this: that if the mother
country should be inclined to an accommodation of our dispul
we have, by our rash procedure, thrown an insurmountable ob-
stacle in her way ; we have made it disgraceful to her to comply

20 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 17.

with our requisitions, because they are proposed in a hostile
manner.

Our present measures, I have proved, are the only peaceable
ones we could place the least confidence in. They are the least
exceptionable, upon the score of irritating Great Britain, of any
our circumstances would permit. The Congress have petitioned
his Majesty for the redress of grievances. They have, no doubt,
addressed him in the most humble, respectful and affectionate
terms: assured him of their own loyalty and fidelity, and of
the loyalty and fidelity of his American subjects in general: en-
deavored to convince him, that we have been misrepresented
and abused : and expressed an earnest desire, to see an amica-
ble termination of the unhappy differences now existing. Can
a pretext be wanting, in this case, to preserve the dignity of this
■parent state, and yet remove the complaints of the colonies ?
How easy would it be, to overlook our particular agreements,
and grant us redress in consequence of our petitions? It is
easy to perceive there would be no difficulty in this respect.

I have omitted many considerations which might be adduced,
to show the impolicy of Great Britain delaying to accommodate
matters, and attempting to enforce submission, by cutting off all
external sources of trade. To say all the subject allows, would
spin out this piece to an immoderate length. I shall therefore
content myself with mentioning only three things more. First,
it would be extremely hurtful to the commerce of Great Britain,
to drive us to the necessity of laying a regular foundation for
manufactories of our own ; which, if once established, could not
easily, if at all, be undermined, or abolished. Secondly, it
would be very expensive to the nation to maintain a fleet for
the purpose of blocking up our ports and destroying our trade :
nor could she interrupt our intercourse with foreign climes, with-
out, at the same time, retrenching her own revenues ; for she
must then lose the duties and customs upon the articles we are
wont to export to, and import from, them. Added to this, it
would not be prudent to risk the displeasure of those nations, to
whom our trade is useful and beneficial. And lastly, a perse-
verance in ill-treatment, would naturally beget such deep-rooted

^t. 17.] A PULL VINDICATION. •_' 1

animosities in America, as tnighl never be eradicated ; and which
mighl operate to the prejudice of the empire, to the latesl period

Tims haw I clearly proved, thai the plan of opposition con-
oerted by our Congress, is perfectly consonant with justice and
sound policy; and will, in all Inn, .a,, probability, ,„ir

& lorn against the assaults of our enemies.

,'1"- after all, it may be demanded, why they have adopted
;i aon-exportation : seeing many arguments tend to show, th
Qon-importation, alone, would accomplish the end desired?

I answer, thai the continuance of our exports, is the only
thin- whirl, could lessen, or retard, the efficacy of ;, aon-impor-
tation. ^ is not, indeed, probable it should do that to any great
degree; but it was advisable to provide against every possible
obstruction. Besides this, the prospect of its taking place, and
of the evils attendant upon it, will be a prevailing motive with
the ministry, to abandon their malignant schemes. It will b
serve to convince thru, , that we are not afraid of putting our-
selves to any inconveniences, sooner than be the \ icti ,,-ir
lawless ambition.

The execution of this measure, lias 1 n wisely deferred I

future time; because we haw thegreatesl reason to think, afl
will be settled without it: ami because its consequences would
be too fatal, to be justified by any thin- but absolute ne<
This necessity' there will be, should not our disputes tennin
before the time allotted i\,y its commencement.

Before I conclude this part of my address, I will answer I
very singular interrogatories proposed by the Farmer "Can
we think," says he, "to threaten, and bully, and frighten, the
supreme government of th.- nation into a compliance with our
demands? Can we expect to force submission toon,- peevish
and petulanl humors, by exciting clamors and riots in England?"
No, gentle sir. We aeithei desire, nor endeavor, to threaten,
bully, nor frighten, any persons into a compliance with our
mauds. Wehaveno peevish and petulant humors to be sub-
mitted to. All we aim at. is. to convince your high and mighty
master, the ministry, that we are not such a- - to lei them
ride us as they please. We are determined to show them that
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt.11.

we know the value of freedom: nor shall their rapacity extort
that inestimable jewel from us, without a manly and virtuous
struggle. But for your part, sweet sir ! though we cannot much
applaud your wisdom, yet we are compelled to admire your
valor, which leads you to hope you may be able to swear,
threaten, bully, and frighten, all America into a compliance
with your sinister designs. When properly accoutred, and
armed with your formidable hickory cudgel, what may not the
ministry expect from such a champion? Alas, for the poor
committee gentlemen! how I tremble when I reflect on the
many wounds and scars they must receive from your tremen-
dous arm ! Alas for their supporters and abettors ! a very large
part, indeed, of the continent : but what of that ? They must
all be soundly drubbed with that confounded hickory cudgel :
for surely you would not undertake to drub one of them, without
knowing yourself able to treat all their friends and adherents in
the same manner ; since 'tis plain you would bring them all upon
your back.

I am now to address myself in particular to the Farmers of
New-York.

My Good Countrymen :

The reason I address myself to you, in particular, is not be-
cause I am one of your number, or connected with you in inter-
est, more than with any other branch of the community. I love
to speak the truth, and would scorn to prejudice you in favor of
what I have to say, by taking upon me a fictitious character, as
other people have done. I can venture to assure you, the true
writer of the piece signed A W. Farmer, is not in reality a
Farmer. He is some ministerial emissary, that has assumed the
name to deceive you, and make you swallow the intoxicating
potion he has prepared for you. But I have a better opinion of
you, than to think he will be able to succeed. I am persuaded,
you love yourselves and children better than to let any design-
ing men cheat you out of your liberty and property, to serve
their own purposes. You would be a disgrace to your ancestors,

jEt. 17.] A PULL VINDICATION.

and the bittereel enemies to yourselves, and to your posterity, if
you did doI act like men, in protecting and defending th
rights yon nave hitherto enjoyed.

I gay, my friends, I do doI address yon in particular, I
I have any greater connection with yon than with other people.
I despise all false pretensions, and mean arts. Lei those 1.
recourse to dissimulation and falsehood, who can't defend their
cause without it. "Tis my maxim, to let the plain naked truth
speak for itself: and if men won'1 listen to it, 'tis their own
fault : they must be contented to suffer for it. I am neither mer-
chant, nor farmer. I address you, because I wish wel] to my
country, and of course to you, who are one chief support of it ;
and because an attempt has been made to lead you astray in
particular. You arc the men, too, who -would lose most, should
you be foolish enough to counteract the prudenl measures our
worthy Congress has taken, for the preservation of our libert
Those who advise you to do it, arc not your friends, but your
greatest foes. They would have you made slaves, that they
may pamper themselves with the fruits of your honest labor.
'Tis the Farmer who is most oppressed in all countries wi.
slavery prevails.

You have seen how clearly T have proved, thai a non-impor-
tation and non-exportation, are the only peaceable means in our
power, to save ourselves from the most dreadful state of slavery.
I have shown there is not the least hope to be placed in any
thing else. 1 have confuted all the principal cavils raised by
the pretended Farmer; and I hope, before I finish, to satisfy
you, that lie has attempted t<> frighten you with the prospe< I
evils which will never happen. This, indeed, I have, in a great
measure, done already, by making appear, the greal probability,
I may almost say, certainty, that our measures will procure us

the im 'St Speedy reill'eSS.

Are y,,u willing, then, to he slaves without a single struggle?
Will you give up your freedom, or, which is the same thing, will
you resign all security for your life and property, rather than
endure some small present inconveniences? Will you not t
a little trouble to transmit the advantages you now ;

24 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 17.

those who are to come after you ? I cannot doubt it. I would
not suspect you of so much baseness and stupidity, as to suppose
the contrary.

Pray, who can tell me why a farmer in America, is not as
honest and good a man as a farmer in England ? or, why has
not the one as good a right to what he has earned by his labor
as the other ? I can't, for my life, see any distinction between
them. And yet, it seems, the English farmers are to be gov-
erned and taxed by their own Assembly, or Parliament ; and
the American farmers are not. The former, are to choose their
own Eepresentatives from among themselves, whose interest is
connected with theirs, and over whom they have proper control.
The latter, are to be loaded with taxes by men three thousand
miles off ; by men who have no interest or connections among
them ; but whose interest it will be, to burden them as much as
possible ; and over whom they cannot have the least restraint.
How do you like this doctrine, my friends ? Are you ready to
own the English farmers for }^our masters ? Are you willing to
acknowledge their right to take your property from you, and
when they please ? I know you scorn the thought. You had
rather die than submit to it.

But some people try to make you believe, we are disputing
about the foolish trifle of three pence duty upon tea. They
may as well tell yow, that black is white. Surely you can
judge for yourselves. Is a dispute, whether the Parliament of
Great Britain shall make what laws, and impose what taxes,
they please upon us, or not ; I say, is this a dispute about three
pence duty upon tea ? The man that affirms it, deserves to be
laughed at.

It is true, we are denying to pay the duty upon tea ; but it is
not for the value of the thing itself. It is because we cannot
submit to that without acknowledging the principle upon which
it is founded; and that principle is, a right to tax us in all cases
vjhatsoever.

You have heretofore experienced the benefit of being taxed
by your own Assemblies only. Your burdens are so light, that
you scarcely feel them. You'd soon find the difference, if you

jEt. 17.] A FUU- VINDICATION.

were once to le1 the Parliament have the management of th •
matters.

How wonld yon like to pay fonr shillings a year,*ont of
every ponnd your farms are worth, to be squandered (at Least a
great pari of it) upon ministerial tools and court sycophants?
What would you think of giving a tenth part (.!' the yearly pro-
ducts of your lands to the clergy? V7ould you not thin!.
very hard to pay ten shillings sterling, per annum, for <■■■
wheel of your waggons and other carriages; a shilling or I
for every pane of glass in your houses; and two or three shilli
for everyone of your hearths? I might mention taxes upon

your mares, cows, and many other things; but those I hi

already mentioned, are sufficient. Methinks I see you stare,

and hear you ask, how you could live, if you were to pay such
heavv taxes? Indeed, my friends, 1 can't tell you. You are to
look out for that, and take care you do not run yourselves in
the way of danger, by following the advice of those who want
to betray you. This you may depend upon; if ever you let the
Parliament carry its point, you will have these and more to |
Perhaps, before long, your tables, and chairs, and platters, and
dishes, and knives, and forks, and every thing else, would be
taxed. Nay, I don't know but they would find means to tax
you for every child you got, and for every kiss your daughters
received from their sweethearts; and God know.-, that would
soon ruin you. The people of England wonld pull down the
Parliament House, if their present heavy burdens were not
transferred from them to you. Indeed, there is no reason to
think, the Parliament would have any inclination to spare you.
The contrary is evident.

But being ruined by taxes, is not the worst you have to fear.
What security would yon have for your lives? How can any
of you be sure you would have the tree enjoyment of your reli-
gion long? Would you put your religion in the power of any
set of men living? Remember, civil and religions liberty always

* The full price of your farms every five years.

2G HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 17.

go together : if the foundation of the one be sapped, the other
will fall of course.

Call to mind one of our sister colonies, Boston. Reflect upon
the situation of Canada ; and then tell me whether you are in-
clined to place any confidence in the justice and humanity of the
Parliament. The port of Boston is blocked up, and an army
planted in the town. An act has been passed to alter its char-
ter ; to prohibit its assemblies ; to license the murder of its in-
habitants; and to convey them from their own country to Great
Britain to be tried for their lives. What was all this for ? Just
because a small number of people, provoked by an open and
dangerous attack upon their liberties, destroyed a parcel of Tea
belonging to the East India Company. It was not public, but
private property they destroyed. It was not the act of the
whole province, but the act of a part of the citizens. Instead of
trying to discover the perpetrators, and commencing a legal pro-
secution against them, the Parliament of Great Britain inter-
fered in an unprecedented manner, and inflicted a punishment
upon a whole province, "untried, unheard, unconvicted of any
crime." This may be justice, but it looks so much like cruelty,
that a man of a humane heart would be more apt to call it by
the latter than the former name.

The affair of Canada, if possible, is still worse. The English
laws have been superseded by the French laws. The Romish
faith is made the established religion of the land, and his Majesty
is placed at the head of it. The free exercise of the Protestant
faith depends upon the pleasure of the Governor and Council.
The subject is divested of the right of trial by jury, and an inno-
cent man may be imprisoned his whole life, without being able
to obtain any trial at all. The Parliament was not contented
with introducing arbitrary power and popery in Canada, with its
former limits ; but they have annexed to it the vast tracts of land
that surround all the colonies.

Does not your blood run cold, to think that an English Par-
liament should pass an act for the establishment of arbitrary
power and popery, in such an extensive country ? If they had
had any regard to the freedom and happiness of mankind, they

JEr. 17.] A FULL VINDICATION. -7

would never have done it. IT they had been friends to the Pro-
testanl cause, they would never 1ki\ e pro\ ided such :i nursery for

■iv;it enemy ; they would qo1 have given such encouragement
to popery. The thoughl of their conduct, in this particular,
shocks me. It musl shock you, too, my friends, r. fare of
trusting yourselves to men, who are capable of such an action I
They may as well establish popery in New-York, and the other
colonies, as they did in Canada. They had no more righl to do
it there than here.

Is it nol better, 1 ask, to suffer a few present inconveniei
than to put yourselves in the way of losing every thing thai is
precious? Your lives, your property, your religion, are all at
stake. I do my duty. I warn you of your danger, [f you
should still be so mad as to bring destruction upon yourseh
if you should still neglecl what you owe to God and man, you
cannot plead ignorance in your excuse. Your consciences will
reproach you for your folly; and your children's children will
curse you.

You are told, the schemes of our Congress will ruin you.
You are told, they have not considered your interest : but have
neglected or betrayed you. Itris endeavored to make you look
upon some of the wisest and Lest men in America as rogues and
rebels. What will not wicked men attempt ! They will scruple
nothing that may serve their purposes, [n truth, my friends, it
is very unlikely any of us shall suffer much; but let the worst
happen, the fanners will be better off than other people.

Many of those thai made ap the Congress have large poss
sions in land, and may, therefore, be looked upon as fanners
themselves. Can it be supposed they would be careless about
the farmer's interest, when they could not injure that, without
injuring themselves? You see the absurdity of such a sup]
tion.

The merchants, and a great part of the trade-men. gel their

living by commerce. These are the ] pie thafwould be hurt

most Ly putting a .-top to it. As to the farmers, " they fun
food for the merchant and mechanic; the raw materials for n
manufactures are the produce of their indusl The merchai

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.11.

and mechanics are already dependent upon the farmers for their
food ; ami if the non-importation should continue any time, they
would be dependent upon them for their clothes also.

ll is a false assertion that the merchants have imported more
than usual this year. That report has been raised by your ene-
mies, to poison your minds with evil suspicions. If our dis-
putes be not settled within eighteen months, the goods we have
among us Avill be consumed ; and then the materials for making
clothes must be had from you. Manufactures must be promoted
with vigor ; and a high price will be given for your wool, flax,
and hemp. It will be your interest to pay the greatest care and
attention to your sheep. Increase and improve the breed as
much as possible. Kill them sparingly, and such only as will not
be of use toward the increase and improvement of them. In a
few months we shall know what we have to trust to. If matters
be not accommodated by spring, enlarge the quantity of your
flax and hemp. You will experience the benefit of it. All those
articles will be very much wanted ; they will bring a great deal
higher price than they used to do. And while you are supplying
the wants of the community, you will be enriching yourselves.

Should we hereafter find it necessary to stop our exports, you
can apply more of your land to raising flax and hemp, and less
of it to wheat, rye, &c. By which means, you will not have any
of those latter articles to lie upon hand. There will be a con-
sumption for as much of the former as you can raise ; and the
great demand they will be in will make them very profitable to
you.

Patience, good Mr. Critic ! Kill them sparingly, I said. What
objection have you to the phrase? You'll tell me, it is not clas-
sical; but I affirm it is, and if you will condescend to look into
Mr. Johnson's dictionary, you will find I have his authority for
it. Pray, then, for the future, spare your wit, upon such occasions,
otherwise the world will not be disposed to spare its ridicule.
And though the man that spares nobody, does not deserve to be
spared himself, yet will I spare you, for the present, and proceed
to things of more importance.

Pardon me, my friends, for taking up your time with this di

JEt. 17.] A PULL VINDICATION. 29

gression, but I could not forbear stepping oat of the way a little to

show the world 1 am as able a critic and as ■ 'I a punstei

Mr. Parmer. 1 now return to the main point with pleasure.

It is i i isi n i Kit e< I, "Thai the bustle about non-importation, &c,
has its rise, not from patriotism, bu1 selfishness;" and is only
made by the merchants, thai they may gel a high price for their

goods. .

Bj this time, 1 flatter myself you are convinced, thai we are
not disputing about trifles. It bas been clearly proved to you,
thai we are contending for every thing dear in life ; and thai the
measures adopted by the Congress, are the only ones which can
save osfrora ruin. This is sufficient to confute th;ii insinuation.
But to confirm it, lei me observe to you, thai the merchants have
not been the foremost to bring about a non-importation. All the
members of the Congress were unanimous in it; and many oi
them were not merchants. The warmest advocates for it. every
where, are not concerned in trade: and, as 1 have before re-
marked, the traders will be the principal sufferers, if it should
continue any time.

.But, it is said, it will not continue, because, " \\ hen the .-tores
are like to become empty, they will have weighl enough to break
up the agreement." 1 don'1 think they would attempt it : but,
if they should, it is impossible, a few mercenary men could have
influence enough to make the whole body of the people 'jive up
the only plan their circumstances admit of, for the preservation
of their rights, and, of course, to forfeit all they have been so
Long striving to secure. The making of a non-importation
agreement, did uo1 depend upon the merchants; neither will the
breaking of it depend upon them. The Congress ha\ e provided
against the breach of the non-importation, by the non-consump-
tion agreement. They have resolved, for themselves, and as their
constituents, "not to purchase, nor use, any Easl [ndiaTea what-
soever; nor any goods, wares, or merchandise, from < hreal Britain,
or Ireland, imported after the first of December ; nor mo
from the Wot [ndies ; nor wine, from Madeira, i »rthe W. atern Isl-
ands; nor foreign Indigo." If we do not purchase, nor use, tl
things, the merchant will have no inducement to import them.

30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 11.

H nice, you may perceive, the reason of a non-consumption
agreement'.' 1 1 is, to put it out of the power of dishonest men, to
break i he non-importation. Is this a slavish regulation t Or, is
it a hardship upon us, to submit to it? Surely not. Every
sensible, every good man, must approve of it. Whoever tries to
disaffect you to it, ought to meet with your contempt.

Take notice, my friends, how these men are obliged to con-
tradict themselves. In one place, you are told, " that all the
bustle about non-importation, &c, has its rise, not from patriot-
ism, but from selfishness ;" or, in other words, that it is made by
the merchants, to get a higher price for their goods. In another
place, it is said, "that all we are doing, is instigated by some
turbulent men, who want to establish a republican form of gov-
ernment among us."

The Congress is censured, for appointing committees to
carry their measures into execution, and directing them, "to
establish such further regulations, as they may think proper, for
that purpose." Pray, did we not appoint our Delegates, to make
regulations for us ? What signified making them if they did not
provide some persons, to see them executed? Must a few
bad men be left to do what they please, contrary to the general
sense of the people, without any persons to control them, or to
look into their behaviour, and mark them out to the public?
The man that desires to screen his knavery from the public eye,
will answer, Yes : but the honest man, that is determined to do
nothing hurtful to his country, and who is conscious his actions
will bear the light, will heartily answer, No.

The high prices of goods are held up, to make you dissatis-
fied with the non-importation. If the argument on this head
were true, it would be much better to subject yourselves to that
disadvantage, for a time, than to bring upon yourselves all the
mischiefs I have pointed out to you. Should you submit to the
claims of the Parliament, you will not only be oppressed with
the taxes upon your lands, &c, which I have already men-
tioned; but, you will have to pay heavy taxes upon all the
goods we import from Great Britain. Large duties will be laid
upon them at home ; and the merchants, of course, will have a

jEt. 17.] A PULL VINDICATION. 31

greater price for them, ot it would uo1 be worth their while to
carry on trade. The duty laid upon paper, . paint i

colors, &c, was a beginning of this kind. The presenl < lut y
upon tea, is preparatory to the Imposition of duties upon all
other articles. Do you think the Parliamenl would make Bucb
a Berious matter of three pence a pound upon tea, if it intended
to stopthere? It is absurd to imagine it. 5Tou would boos
find your mistake if you did. For fear of paying somewhal a
higher price to the merchants, for a year or two, you would b
to pay an endless list of taxes, u ithin and without, as long as you
live, and your children after you.

But, I trust, there is no danger that the prices of goods will
rise much, if at all. The same Congress, that put a stop to the
importation of them, has also forbid raising the prices of them.
The same committee that is to regulate the one, is also to regulate
tii" other. All care will be taken to give no cause of dissatisfac-
tion. Confide in the men whom von, and the rest of the continent,
have chosen the guardians of our common liberties. They are
men of sense and virtue. They will do nothing but what is
reallv necessary for the security of your lives and properties.

A sad pother is made, too, about prohibiting the exportation
of sheep without excepting wethers. The poor Farmer is at a
mighty loss to know how wethers can improve, or increase the
breed. Truly I am not such a conjurer as to be able to inform
him: but, if you please, my friends, I can give you two pretty
good reasons why the Congress have not excepted wethers. I I
is, that, for some time, we shall have occasion for all the wool we
can raise; so that it would be imprudent to export Bheep of any
kind. And the other is, that if you confine yourself ehietly to
killing wethers, as you ought to do, you will have none to ex-
port. The gentleman who made the objection must have known
these things as well as myself : bu1 be loves to crack a jest, and
could not pass by so fair an opportunity.

Ee takes notice of the first of these reasons himself: but, in
order to weaken its force, cries, " Let me ask you. brother tann-
ers, which of you would keep a flock of sheep, barely for the
sake of their wool?" To this he answers. " Nol one of you. It

32 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 11.

you cannot sell your sheep to advantage, at a certain age, you
cannot keep them to any profit." He thinks, because he calls
you " brother farmers," that he can cajole you into believing
what he pleases : but you are not the fools he takes you for.
You know what is for your own interest better than he can tell
you. And we all know, that, in a little time, if our affairs be
not settled, the demand for wool will be very great. You will
be able to obtain such a price, as will make it worth your while
to bestow the greatest attention upon your sheep.

In another place this crafty writer tells you, that, " from the
day our exports from this province are stopped, the farmers may
date the commencement of their ruin." He asks, " Will the
shopkeeper give you his goods ? Will the weaver, shoemaker,
blacksmith, carpenter, work for you without pay ?" I make no
doubt you are satisfied, from what I have said, that we shall
never have occasion to stop our exports : but if things turn out
contrary to our expectation, and it should become necessary to
take that step, you will find no difficulty in getting what you
want from the merchants and meohanics. They will not be
able to do without you : and, consequently, they cannot refuse
to supply you with what you stand in need of from them. Where
will the merchants and mechanics get food and materials for
clothing, if not from the farmer? And if they are dependent
upon you, for those two grand supports of life, how can they
withhold what they have from you ?

I repeat it, my friends, we shall know how matters are like
to be settled by the spring. If our disputes be not terminated
to our satisfaction by that time, it will be your business to plant
large parts of your lands with flax and hemp. Those art'icles
will be wanted for manufactures; and they will yield you a
greater profit than any thing else. In the interim, take good
care of your sheep.

I heartily concur with the farmer in condemning all illicit
trade. Perjury is, no doubt, a most heinous and detestable
crime; and, for my part, I had rather suffer any thing, than
have my wants relieved at the expense of truth and integrity.
I know there are many pretended friends to liberty, who will

JEt. 17.] A FULL VINDICATION.

take offence at this declaration; but I speak the sentiments of
in\ heart without reserve. 1 do no1 write for a party. I Bhould
scorn to bo of any. All I say, is from a disinterested regard to
the public weal.

The Congress, I am persuaded, were of the sai pinion.

They, like honest men, have, as much as was in their po1
provided against this kind of trade, by agreeing to use uo East
[ndia Tea whatever, after the firsl day of March next.

I shall now consider what has been said with respect to the
payment ^>l' debts, and stopping of the courts of justice. Lei
what will happen, it will be your own faults, if you are not able
to pay your debts. I have told you, in what manner you may
make as much out of your lands as ever: by bestowing more of
your attention upon raising flax and hemp, and less upon other
things. Those articles (as I have more than once observed) will
be in the highest demand. There will be no doing without
them; and, of course, you will be able to get a very profits
price for them. How can it be, that the farmers should be at a
loss for money to pay their debts at a time when the whole
community must buy, not only their food, but all the materials
for their clothes, from them? You have no reason to be uneasy
on that account.

As to the courts of justice, no violence can, nor wid, be used,
to shut them up: but, if it should be found necessary, we may
enter into solemn agreement, to cease from all litigations at law,
except in particular cases. We may regulate law-suits in such a
manner as to prevent any mischief thai might arise from them.
Eestrictions may be laid on, to hinder merciless creditors from
taking advantage of the times to oppress and ruin their debtors:
but, at the same time, not to put it in the power of tip- debtors,
wantonb/ to withhold their just dues from their creditors, when
tl icy are able to pay them. The law ruins many a good honest
family. Disputes may be settled in a more friendly way. One
or two virtuous neighbors may be chosen by each party to de-
cide them. If the next Congress should think any regulati
concerning the courts of justice, requisite, they will make them;
and proper persons will be appointed to carry them into execu

b 3

:;| HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JE-r. 17.

(don, and to sec that no individuals deviate from them. It will
be pour duty to elect persons whose fidelity and zeal for your
interesl you can depend upon, to represent you in that Congress,
which is to meet in Philadelphia in May ensuing.

The Farmer cries, "Tell me not of delegates, congresses,
committees, mobs, riots, insurrections, associations: a plague on
them all ! Give me the steady, uniform, unbiassed, influence of
the courts of justice. I have been happy under their protection ;
and, I trust in God, I shall be so again."

I say, tell me not of the British Commons, lords, ministry,
ministerial tools, placemen, pensioners, parasites. I scorn to let
my life and property depend upon the pleasure of any of them.
Give me the steady, uniform, unshaken, security of constitu-
tional freedom. Give me the right to be tried by a jury of my
own neighbors; and to be taxed by my own representatives
only. What will become of the law and courts of justice with-
out this ? The shadow may remain, but the substance will be
gone. I would die to preserve the law upon a solid foundation :
but take away liberty, and the foundation is destroyed.

The last thing I shall take notice of, is the complaint of the
Farmer, that the Congress will not allow you "a dish of tea to
please your wives with, nor a glass of Madeira to cheer your
spirits, nor a spoonful of molasses to SAveeten your buttermilk
with." You would have a right to complain, if the use of these
things had been forbidden to you alone : but it has been equally
forbidden to all sorts of people. The members of the Congress,
themselves, are no more permitted to please their wives with a
dish of tea, nor to cheer their spirits with a glass of wine, nor to
sweeten their buttermilk with a spoonful of molasses, than you
are. They arc upon a footing with you in this respect.

By him — but, with your leave, my friends, we'll try, if we
can, to do without swearing. I say, it is enough to make a man
mad, to hear such ridiculous quibbles offered, instead of sound
argument : but so it is : the piece I am writing against contains
nothing else.

When a man grows warm, he has a confounded itch for
swearing. I have been going, above twenty times, to rap out an

JEt. 17.] A FULL VINDICATION.

oath, By him that made me: bill I have checked myself with the
reflection, thai it is rutin']- unmannerly to treat him that made as

with so much IV lom.

Thus have 1 examined and confuted ;ill tin- cavils and obj
tions, <>f any consequence, stated by this Farmer. I have only
passed over such things as arc of little weight, the fall
of which will easily appear. I have shown, that tin- Cong]
have neither "ignorantly misunderstood, careles.-ly neglected,
nor basely betrayed you ;" hut that they have devised and re-
commended the only effectual means to preserve your invalua-
ble privileges. 1 have proved thai their measures cannot fail of
success; hut will procure the most speedy relief for us. I have
also proved, that the farmers are the people who would suffer
hast, shouhl we he obliged to carry all our measures into exe-
cution.

Will vou, then, my friends, allow yourselves to be duped by
this artful enemy? Will you follow his advices, disregard the
authority of your Congress, and bring ruin on yourselves and
posterity? AVill you act in such a manner as to deserve the
hatred and resentment of all the rest of America? I am sure
you will not. 1 should be sorry to think any of my country-
men would be so mean, so blind to their own inter losl to
every generous and manly feeling.

The sort of men I am opposing, give you fair words to per-
suade you to serve their own turns; but they think and speak
of you, in common, in a very disrespectful manner. I have
heard some of their party talk of you, as the most ignorant and
mean-spirited set of people in the world. They say that you
have no sense of honor or generosity; that you don't care a
farthing about your country, children, nor any body else hut
yourselves: and that you are so ignorant, as not to be able
to look beyond the present: so that if you can once be per-
suaded to believe the measures of your Congress will invol
you in some little present perplexities, you will be glad to do
any thing to avoid them ; without considering the much greater
miseries that await you at a little distance off. This is the char-

ir they give of you. Bad men are apt to paint others I

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 17.

themselves. For my part, I will never entertain such an opinion
of you, unless you should verify their words, by wilfully falling
into the pit they have prepared for you. I natter myself you
will convince them of their error by showing the world you are
capable of judging what is right and left, and have resolution to
pursue it.

All I ask, is, that you will judge for yourselves. I don't de-
sire you to take my opinion, nor any man's opinion, as the guide
of your actions. I have stated a number of plain arguments.
I have supported them with several well-known facts. It is your
business to draw a conclusion, and act accordingly. I caution
you, again and again, to beware of the men who advise you to
forsake the plain path marked out for you by the Congress.
They only mean to deceive and betray you. Our representa-
tives in General Assembly cannot take any wiser or better course
to settle our differences, than our representatives in the Conti-
nental Congress have taken. If you join with the rest of Ame-
rica in the same common measure, you will be sure to preserve
your liberties inviolate : but if you separate from them, and
seek for redress alone, and unseconded, you will certainly fall a
prey to your enemies, and repent your folly as long as you live.

May God give you wisdom to see what is your true interest,
and inspire you with becoming zeal for the cause of virtue and
mankind.

JEt. 18.]

THE FARMEE REFUTED.

Febhuary 5, 1775.

The Farmer Refuted ; or, a more comprehensive and im-
partial View of the Disputes between Great Britain
and the Colonies. Intended as a further Vindication
of the Congress, in answer to a Letter from a Win-
chester Fanner, entitled a View of the Controversy
between Great Britain and her Colonies, including a
mode of determinrng the present disputes, finally and
effectually, &c. By a sincere friend to America.
Tituli remedia pollicentnr, sed pixedes ipsae venena
continent — The title promises remedies, l>ut the l>ox
itself poisons. Printed by James Eivington, 1775.

ADVERTISEMENT.

The writer of the ensuing sheets can, with truth, say more than the generality
of those who either esponse or oppose the claim of the British Parliam
which is, that his political opinions hare been the result of mature deliberation and
rational inquiry. They have not been influenced by prejudice nor by any inter-
ested or ambitious motives. They are not the spawn of licentious clamors or po-
pular declamation ; but the genuine offspring of sober reason. To those whoare
inclined to doubl his sincerity, ht begsleave to recommend a little mop- - \arity I
those who are possessed of greater candor, and who yet may !>.• disposed to

• IS HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

How h can be sure that his opinions have not been influenced by prejudice? He
answers, Because he remembers the time, when he had strong prejudices on the
side h now opposes. His change of sentiment {he firmly believes), proceeded from
the superior force of the arguments in favor of the American claims.

Though he is convinced there are too many, whose judgments are led captive by
the most venal and despicable motives, yet he does not presume to think every
man, Who differs from him, either fool or knave. He is sensible there are men of
parts and virtue, whose notions are entirely contrary to his. To imagine there are
not wise and good men on both sides, must be the effect of a weak head, or a cor-
rupt heart. H: earnestly entreats the candid attention of the judicious and well-
meaning ; and hopes that what he has written may be read with as much impar-
tiality, and as sincere a regard to truth, as the importance of the controversy de-
mands.

•

Sir, — I resume my pen, in rejny to the curious epistle you
have been pleased to favor me with ; and can assure you, that
notwithstanding I am naturally of a grave and phlegmatic dispo-
sition, it has been the source of abundant merriment to me. The
spirit that breathes throughout, is so rancorous, illiberal, and im-
perious ; the argumentative part of it is so puerile and fallacious;
the misrepresentations of facts, so palpable and flagrant ; the cri-
ticisms so illiterate, trifling, and absurd; the conceits so low,
sterile, and splenetic ; that I will venture to pronounce it one of
the most ludicrous performances which has been exhibited to
public view during all the present controversy.

You have not even imposed on me the laborious task of pur-
suing you through a labyrinth of subtilty. You have not had
ability sufficient, however violent your efforts, to try the deptlis
of sophistry; but have barely skimmed along its surface. I
should almost deem the animadversions I am going to make un-
necessary, were it not that without them you might exult in a
fancied victory, and arrogate to yourself imaginary trophies.

But, while I pass this judgment, it is not my intention to de-
tract from your real merit. Candor obliges me to acknowledge
that you possess every accomplishment of a polemical writer
which may serve to dazzle and mislead superficial and vulgar
minds : a, peremptory, dictatorial air ; a pert vivacity of expres-
sion; an inordinate passion for conceit; and a noble disdain of
being fettered by the laws of truth. These, sir, are important
qualifications; and these all unite in you in a very eminent

JEt. 18.] T II E V A R M i: B R E P I 'I' E I). 39

degree. So that, though you may never expecl the plaudits of
the judicious and discerning, you may console yourself with this
assurance, that

■• Km >N and witlings ' will' ev'ry Bentence raise
And wonder, with ;i foolish face oi praise."

V.Hi will, do doubt, bo pleased with this further concession :
to wit : thai there is a striking resemblance between yourself and
the renowned hero of the Dunciad. "Pertdulru ," seems to be
the chief characteristic of your genius as well as his. 1 might
poinl "nt a variety of circumstances in which you both agree;
bul 1 shall content myself with having given the hint, and Leave
it to yourself and to your other* admirers, to prosecute a compa-
rison, which will reflect so high lustre on the object of admi-
ration.

Having thus briefly delivered my sentiments of your per-
formance in general, I shall proceed to a particular examination
of it, so far as may be requisite, towards placing it in that just
point of light in which it ought to stand. I Hatter myself, I
shall find no difficulty in obviating the objections you have pro-
duced against the " Full Vindication ;" and in showing that your
"View of the Controversy between Great Britain and the Colo-
nies," is not <inly partial and unjust, but diametrically opposite to
the first principles of civil society. In doing this, I may oc
sionally interweave some strictures on the ,- < longress Canvassed."

First, then, I observe you endeavor to bring the imputation
of inconsistency upon me, for writing "a long and elaborate
pamphlet, to justify decision.-, against whose influence none but
impoA ///attempts had been made." A little attention would have
unfolded the whole mystery. The reason assigned for what I
did was, "lest those attempt-," impotent as they were, in a gene-
ral sense, "might yet have a tendency to mislead and prejudice
the minds of a few." To prevent this, I wrote; and if I have
been instrumental in preserving a single person from the baneful

* [fwe may judge from the style and nun of thought, yon wen- pleased to be
yonr own admirer in the card in reply.

40 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 18.

effects of your insidious efforts, I snail not regret the time I have
(1, 'voted to that laudable purpose. To confirm, or to add, one
friend to his country, would afford a more refined and perma-
nent satisfaction to me, than could possibly animate the breast
of the proudest ministerial minion, though elevated to the pinna-
cle of his wished-for preferment, and basking in the sunshine of
court favor, as the despicable wages of his prostitution and servi-
lity.

You tell me, " I knew, that at the bar of impartial reason and
common sense, the conduct of the Congress must be condemned ;
but was too much interested, too deeply engaged in party views
and party heats to bear this with patience. I had no remedy
(you say) but artifice, sophistry, misrepresentation and abuse.'1''
These you call " my weapons, and these I wield like an old ex-
perienced practitioner."

You ask, " Is this too heavy a charge ? Can you lay your
hand upon your heart, and upon your honor plead not guilty ?"
Yes, sir, I can do more. I can make a solemn appeal to the tri-
bunal of Heaven, for the rectitude of my intentions. I can affirm,
with the most scrupulous regard to truth, that I am of opin-
ion the conduct of the Congress will bear the most impartial
scrutiny ; that I am not interested more than as the felicity and
prosperity of this vast continent are concerned ; and that I am
perfectly disengaged from party of every kind.

Here, I expect you will exclaim, with your usual vehemence
and indecency, " You are now espousing the cause of a party!
It is the most daring impudence and falsehood to assert the con-
trary !" I can by no means conceive, that an opposition to a
small herd of malcontents, among whom you have thought pro-
per to rank, and a zealous attachment to the general measures of
America, can be denominated the effect of a party spirit. You,
sir, and your adherents, may be justly deemed a faction, because
you compose a small number inimical to the common voice of
your country. To determine the truth of this affirmation, it is
necessary to take a comprehensive view of all the colonies.

Throughout your letter, you seem to consider me as a person
who has acted, and is still acting, some part in the formation and

jEt. 18.] 'I'll E I' a R m i: R i: i: PUT E I). II

execution of public measures. You tacitly represenl me ac
Delegate, or member of the Committee. Whether this be d<
with a design to create a suspicion of my sincerity, or whether it
be really your opinion, I know not. Perhaps il is from a com-
plex motive. But 1 can assure you, if you are in earnest, that
yon are entirely mistaken. I bave taken no other part in the
affair, than that of defending the proceedings of the Congress, in
conversation, and by the pamphlel I lately published. J ap-
proved of them, and thought an ondeviating compliance with
them essentia] to the preservation of American freedom. I shall,
therefore, strenuously exert myself for the promotion of thai va-
luable end

In the Held of literary contention, it is common to see the
epithets artifice, sophistry, misrepresentation) and abuse, mutually
bandied about. Whether they are more justly applicable to von,
or to me, the public must deride. AVitb. respect to abuse, 1 make
not the least doubt but every reader will allow you to surpass
me in that.

Your envenomed pen has endeavored to sully the characters
of our continental representatives with the presumptuous charges
of ignorance, knavery, sedition, rebellion, treason, and tyranny
— a tremendous catalogue, indeed! Nor have you treated their
friends and adherents with any greater degree of complaisance.
Yon have also delineated the mercantile body as entirely devoid of
principle; and the several committees, as bands of robbers and

v tyrants. In short, except the few who arc of your own
complexion and stamp, "the rirtmnis friends of order and good
government," you have not hesitated to exercise your obloquy
and malevolence against the whole continent.

These things being considered, it is manifest, that in my
answer to your " Free Thoughts." I treated yon with more lenity
than you had a right to expect; and did by no means observe
the strict law of retaliation. None but yourself, will think you
can, with the least propriety, complain of abuse.

I congratulate myself upon the sentiments you entertai
my last performance. Such is my opinion of your abiliti
critic, that I very much prefer your disapprobation to your ap-

42 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 18.

pi arise. But with respect to trie brilliancy of thought you speak
of, give me leave to inform you, that I aimed at nothing more
than justness of thought. I addressed myself to the judgment,
not to the imagination. In works where fancy is predominant,
as is the case with yours, there is a better opportunity for dis-
playing brilliancy of thought, than where reason presides and
directs. No wonder, then, if you have excelled me in this par-
ticular ; since your plan is so much more favorable to it than
mine.

I shall, for the present, pass over that part of your pamphlet,
in which you endeavor to establish the supremacy of the British
Parliament over America. After a proper eclaircissement of
this point, I shall draw such inferences as will sap the foundation
of every thing you have offered.

The first thing that presents itself, is a wish, that " I had, ex-
plicitly, declared to the public, my ideas of the natural rights of
mankind. Man, in a state of nature (you say), may be consi-
dered as perfectly free from all restraint of law and government ;
and then, the weak must submit to the strong."

I shall, henceforth, begin to make some allowance for that
enmity you have discovered to the natural rights of mankind.
For, though ignorance of them, in this enlightened age, cannot
be admitted as a sufficient excuse for you ; yet it ought, in some
measure, to extenuate your guilt. If you will follow my advice,
there still may be hopes of your reformation. Apply yourself,
without delay, to the study of the law of nature. I would re-
commend to your perusal, Grotius, Puffendorf, Locke, Montes-
quieu, and Burlemaqui. I might mention other excellent
writers on this subject ; but if you attend diligently to these,
you will not require any others.

There is so strong a similitude between your political prin-
ciples and those maintained by Mr. Hobbes, that, in j udging from
them, a person might very easily mistake you for a disciple of
his. His opinion was exactly coincident with yours, relative to
man in a state of nature. He held, as you do, that he was,
then, perfectly free from all restraint of law and government.
Moral obligation, according to him, is derived from the intro-

jet. is.] tii i: i" \ i; \i i: i: REPUTED. I ■"■

duction of civil society : and there la qo virtue l>ut whal
purely artificial, the mere contrivance of politicians, for the main-
tenance of social intercourse. Bui the reason he run into this
absurd and impious doctrine, was. thai be disbelieved th<
ence of an intelligent, superintending principle, who is the Gov-
ernor, and will be the final judge of the univei

A- you sometimes swear by him that made yout I conclude
your Bentiments do aol correspond with his, in thai which is the
basis of the doctrine you both agree in : and this makes it imj
sible to imagine whence this congruity between yon arises. To
grant, thai there is a supreme intelligence, who rules the world,
and has established laws to regulate the actions of his creatui
and, still, to assert thai man. in a state of nature, may be con-
sidered as perfectly free from all restraints of law and govi mm
appears, to a common understanding, altogether irreconcilable.

Good and wise men, in all ages, Lave embraced a very dis-
similar theory. They have supposed, that the Deity, from the
relations we stand in to Himself; and to each other, hi
stituted an eternal and immutable law, which is indispensably
obligatory upon all mankind, prior to any human institution
whatever.

This is what is called the law of nature, " which, being
coeval with mankind, and dictated by God himself, is, <>f em;
superior in obligations to any other. It is binding over all the
globe, in all countries, and al all times. No human law- are
of any validity, if contrary to this: and such of them as
valid, derive all their authority, mediately, or immediately, from
this original."— Blackstone.

Upon this law depend the natural rights of mankind : the
Supreme Being gave existence to man, together with the mi
of preserving and beautifying thai existence. Ee endowed him
with rational faculties, by the help of which, to discern and
pursue such things as were consistent with his duty and inter,
and invested him with an inviolable righl to personal liberty
and personal safety.

Hence, in a state of nature, no man had any moral p
deprive another of his life, limbs, property, or liberty;

44 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 18

least authority to command, or exact, obedience from him, ex-
cept that which arose from the ties of consanguinity.

Hence, also, the origin of all civil government, justly estab-
lished, must be a voluntary compact between the rulers and
the ruled ; and must be liable to such limitations, as are neces-
sary for the security of the absolute rights of the latter: for what
original title can any man, or set of men, have to govern others,
except their own consent? To usurp dominion over a people,
in their own despite ; or to grasp at a more extensive power
than they are willing to intrust; is to violate that law of nature,
which gives every man a right to his personal liberty ; and can,
therefore, confer no obligation to obedience.

" The principal aim of society, is to protect individuals in
the enjoyment of those absolute rights which were vested in
them by the immutable laws of nature ; but which could not be
preserved, in peace, without that mutual assistance and inter-
course, which is gained by the institution of friendly and social
communities. Hence it follows, that the first and primary end
of human laws, is to maintain and regulate these absolute rights
of individuals." — Blackstone.

If we examine the pretensions of Parliament by this criterion,
which is evidently a good one, we shall presently detect their
injustice. First, they are subversive of our natural liberty, be-
cause an authority is assumed over us, which we by no means
assent to. And, secondly, they divest us of that moral security,
for our lives and properties, which we are entitled to, and which
it is the primary end of society to bestow. For such security can
never exist, while we have no part in making the laws that are
to bind us; and while it may be the interest of our uncontrolled
legislators to oppress us as much as possible.

To deny these principles, will be not less -absurd, than to
deny the plainest axioms. I shall not, therefore, attempt any
further illustration of them.

You say, " When I assert, that since Americans have not, by
any act of theirs, empowered the British Parliament to make
laws for them, it follows they can have no just authority to do
it ; I advance a position subversive of that dependence, which

/Et. 18.] THE F.\ i; m EH ElEFUTED. 15

nil colonies must, from their very nature, bare <>n the mother
country." The premises from which I drew this conclusion, are
indisputable. 5Tou have not detected anj fallacy in them ; but
endeavor to overthrow them by deducing a false and imaginary
consequence. My principles admil the only dependence which
can subsist, consistent with any idea of civil liberty, or with the
future welfare of the British empire, as will appear hereaft

"The dependence of the colonies "n the mother counl
you assert, "has ever been acknowledged. It is an impropi
"I speech, to talk of an independent colony. The words is
pendent ami colony, convey contradictory ideas; much I
Trilling and sparing.* As soon as a colony becomes independ-
ent on the parent state, it ceases to be any longer a colon .
as when you hill a sheep, you cease to span him."

In what sense the dependence of the colonics on the mother
country, has been acknowledged, will appear from those circum-
stances of their political history, which I shall, by and by, re< I

T e term colony, signifies nothing more than a body of j pie

drawn from the mother country, to inhabit some distant pi
or the country itself so inhabited. As to the d and modi-

r that subordination, which is due to the parenl si
these must depend upon other things besides th of

emigration, to inhabit or settle a distant country. These must
be ascertained by the spirit of the constitution of the mother
country: by the compacts for the purpose of colonizing; and,
more especially, by the law of nature, and that supreme law o£
every society — -its own happim

The idea of colony doe-; not involve the idea of slavery.
There is a wide difference between the dependence of a free
people, and the submission of slaves. The former 1 allow: the

* I find, sir. ynu take a particular delighl in persisting in absurdity. Bat If
y. >ii are nol totally incorrigible, tbe following interpretation of the unfortunate
rb, will secure it from any future Btripes. It is taken from Johnson's Diction-
ary: Sparingly, not abundantly, Bacon .■ '_', frugally, parsimoniously . nol lavishly.
Hayward; with abstinence, AUerbwry; cautiously, tenderly. Substitute I -
<>r. not lavishly, for sparingly, and yon musl blush .it your own conceit. Kill your
-' j> ' t lavishly." Where is the impropriety of this

46 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Ms. 18.

hitter I reject with disdain. Nor does the notion of a colony
imply any subordination to our fellow-subjects in the parent
state while there is one common sovereign established. The
dependence of the colonies on Great Britain, is an ambiguous
and equivocal phrase. It may either mean dependence on the
people of Great Britain, or on the king. In the former sense, it
is absurd and unaccountable. In the latter, it is just and rational.
No person will affirm that a French colony is independent on the
parent state, though it acknowledge the king of France as right-
ful sovereign. Nor can it, with any greater propriety, be said,
that an English colony is independent, while it bears allegiance
to the king of Great Britain. The difference between their de-
pendence, is only that which distinguishes civil liberty from
slavery ; and results from the different genius of the French and
English constitutions.

But you deny that " we can be liege subjects to the king of
Great Britain, while we disavow the authority of Parliament."
You endeavor to prove it thus :* " The king of Great Britain
was placed on the throne, by virtue of an act of Parliament :
and he is king of America, by virtue of being king of Great
Britain. He is, therefore, king of America by act of Parlia-
ment : and, if we disclaim that authority of Parliament which
made him our king, we, in fact, reject him from being our king ;
for we disclaim that authority by which he is king at all."

Admitting that the king of Great Britain was enthroned by
virtue of an act of Parliament ; and that he is king of America,
because he is king of Great Britain ; yet, the act of Parliament
is not the efficient cause of his being the king of America. It is
only the occasion of it. He is king of America, by virtue of a
compact between us and the kings of Great Britain. These
colonies were planted and settled by the grants, and under the
protection, of English kings, who entered into covenants with
us, for themselves, their heirs, and successors; and it is from
these covenants, that the duty of protection, on their part, and
the duty of allegiance, on ours, arise.

* Vide " Congress Canvassed."

jet. 18.] Til E F.\ R m i: R ii i: I' [J TED. I .

So that, to disclaim the authority of a British Parliament
over us, does by ao means imply the dereliction of oar all
ance to British monarchs. Ourcompacl aizanceof

the manner of their accession to the throne. It \e sufficient for
as thai they are kings of England.

Themosl valid reasons can be assigned foT our allegiance to
the king of Great Britain; bu1 no1 one of the leasl force, or
plausibility, for our subjection to parliamentary decre<

We hold our lands in America by virtue of charters from
British monarchs; and are under no obligations to the Lords or
Commons for them. Our title is similar, and equal, to thai by
which they possess their lands ; and the king is the Legal foun-
tain of both. This is one grand source of our obligation to
allegiance.

Another, and the principal source, is, that protection which
we have hitherto enjoyed from the kings of Great Britain.
Nothing is more common than to hear the votaries oi Parlia-
ment urge the protection we have received from the mother
country, as an argument for submission to its claims. Bu1 they
entertain erroneous conceptions of the matter. The king him-
self being the supreme executive magistrate, is regarded by the

3titution as the supreme protector of the empire. For this
purpose, he is the generalissimo, or first in military command.
In him is vested the power <4' making war and peace; of raising
armies, equipping fleets, and directing all their motions. He it
is, that has defended as from our enemies ; and to him alone we

are obliged to render allegiance and submission.

The law of nature, and the British constitution, both confine
allegiance to the person of the king; and found it upon the
principle of protection. We may see the Bubjed discussed at
large, in the case of Calvin. The definition given of it by the
learned Coke, is this: " Legiance is the mutual bond and obliga-
tion between the king and his subjects; whereby subjects are
called his liege subjects, because they are bound to obey and
serve him: and he is called their liege lord, because he is bound
to maintain and defend them." Hence it is evident, that while
we enjoy the protection of the king, it is incumbenl upon as to

48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 18.

obey and serve him, without the interposition of parliamentary
supremacy.

The right of Parliament to legislate for us, cannot be ac-
counted for upon any reasonable grounds. The constitution of
Great Britain is very properly called a limited monarchy ; the
people having reserved to themselves a share in the legislature,
as a check upon the regal authority, to prevent its degenerating
into despotism and tyranny. The very aim and intention of the
democratical part, or the House of Commons, is to secure the
rights of the people. Its very being depends upon those rights.
Its whole power is derived from them, and must be terminated
by them.

It is the unalienable birth-right of every Englishman, who
can be considered as a free agent, to participate in framing the
laws which are to bind him, either as to his life or property.
But, as many inconveniences would result from the exercise of
this right in person, it is appointed by the constitution that he
shall delegate it to another. Hence, he is to give his vote in
the election of some person he chooses to confide in as his repre-
sentative. This right no power on earth can divest him of. It
was enjoyed by his ancestors time immemorial ; recognized and
established by Magna Charta ; and is essential to the existence of
the constitution. Abolish this privilege, and the House of Com-
mons is annihilated.

But what was the use and design of this privilege? To
secure his life and property from the attacks of exorbitant
power. And in what manner is this done ? B}>- giving him the
election of those who are to have the disposal and regulation of
them, and whose interest is in every respect connected with his.

The representative, in this case, is bound, by every possible
tie, to consult the advantage of his constituents. Gratitude for
the high and honorable trust reposed in him, demands a return
of attention, and regard to the advancement of his happiness.
Self-interest, that most powerful incentive of human actions,
points and attracts towards the same object.

The duration of his trust is not perpetual, but must expire
in a few years : and if he is desirous of the future favor of his

JEt. 18.] tii i: I'A ii m i;i; 1; i: PUTED. 49

constituents, he must not abuse the presenl Instance of it, bul
musl pursue the end for which he enjoys it; otherwise he forfeits
it, and defeats his own purpose. Besides, if he consenl to any
laws hurtful to his constituent, he is bound by the . and

must partake the disadvantage of them. His friends, relations,
children, all whose ease and comfoii are dear to him, will be in
a like predicament, And Bhould he concur in any Qagranl i
of injustice or oppression, he will 1"' within the reach of popular
igeance; and this will restrain him within due bounds.

To crown the whole; at the expiration of a few years, if

their representatives have abused their trust, the people have it
in their power to change them : ami to eleel others, who may be
more faithful ami more attached to their interest

These securities, the most powerful that human affairs will
admit of| have the people of Britain lor the good deportment of
their representatives towards them. They may have proved, a1
somo times, and on some occasions, defective; but, upon |
whole, they have been found sufficient

When we ascribe to the British House of Commons a jm
diction over the colonies, the scene is entirely reversed. All
these kinds of security immediately disappear; no ti lati-

tude or interesl remain. Interest, indeed, may operate to our
prejudice. To oppress us. may serve as a recommendation to
their constituents, as well as an alleviation of their own incum-
brances. The British patriots maw in time, be heard to court
the gale of popular favor, by boasting their exploits in laying
some new impositions on their American vassals; and, by that
means, lessening the burthens of their friends and fellow-subjects,

Bu1 what merits still more Berious attention is this: there
seems to be already a jealousy <>f our dawning splendor. It is
looked upon as portentous of approaching independence. Tin'-.
we have reason to believe, is one of the principal incitemi
the present rigorous and unconstitutional proceedings against us.
And though it may have chiefly originated in the calumni<
designing men, yet it do,s not entirely depend upon adventitious
or partial causes; hut is also founded in the circumsta
our country and situation. The boundless extent i if terril

B 4

50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 18.

possess ; the wholesome temperament of our climate ; the luxu-
riance and fertility of our soil; the variety of our products; the
rapidity of our population ; the industry of our countrymen ;
and the commodiousness of our ports ; naturally lead to a sus-
picion of independence, and would always have an influence per.
nicious to us. Jealousy is a predominant passion of human na
ture, and is a source of the greatest evils. Whenever it takes
place between rulers and their subjects, it proves the bane of
civil society.

The experience of past ages may inform us, that when the
circumstances of a people render them distressed, their rulers
generally recur to severe, cruel, and oppressive measures. In-
stead of endeavoring to establish their authority in the affection
of their subjects, they think they have no security but in their
fear. They do not aim at gaining their fidelity and obedience,
by making them flourishing, prosperous, and happy ; but by
rendering them abject and dispirited. They think it necessary
to intimidate and awe them ; to make every accession to their
own power, and to impair the people's as much as possible.

One great engine to effect this in America, would be a large
standing army, maintained out of our own pockets, to be at the
devotion of our oppressors. This would be introduced under
pretext of defending us ; but, in fact, to make our bondage and
misery complete.

We might soon expect the martial law, universally prevalent
to the abolition of trials by juries, the Habeas Corpus act, and
every other bulwark of personal safety, in order to overawe the
honest assertors of their country's cause. A numerous train of
court dependents would be created and supported at our expense.
The value of all our possessions, by a complication of extorsive
measures, would be gradually dejDreciated, till it became a mere
shadow.

This will be called too high wrought a picture, a phantom of
my own deluded imagination. The highest eulogies will be
lavished on the wisdom and justice of the British nation. But
deplorable is the condition of that people, who have nothing
else than the wisdom and justice of another to depend upon.

Mr. 18.] THE P A R M i: R REFUT E I) . •"> I

"Political writers,-' says a celebrated author,* "have estab-
lished it as a maxim, that, in contriving any system of govern-
ment, and fixing the several checks and controls of the constitu-
tion, every man oughl to be supposed a knaw ; and to have qo
other end, in all his actions, bul private inten By this interest
we must govern hdm; and, by means "lit, mah him co-operai
public good, notwithstanding his insatiable avarice and ambition.
Without this, we shall in vain boasl of the advantages of any
constitution; and shall find, in the end, that we have no security
for our liberties and possessions, excepl the good will of our ru-
lers; that is, we should have //" security at all.

••It is, theivfoiv, a just pnlitinil maxim, that every man must
be supposed a knave. Though, at the same time, il appea ime-
what strange, that a maxim should be true in politics which is
false in tact. But to satisfy us on this head, we may consider that
men arc generally more honest in a private than in a public ca-
pacity; and will go greater lengths to serve a party than when
their own private interesl is alone concerned. Eonor is a great
check- upon mankind. But, where a considerable body of men
act together, t his check is in a great measure removed, since a
man is sure to be approved by his own party for what promotes
the common interest ; and he soon learns to despise the clamors
of adversaries. 'To this we may add, that every court ot senate is
determined by the greater number of voices ; SO that, it' >el ('-inter-
est influences only the majority (as it will always do), the whole
senate follows the allurements of this separate interesl ; and acts
as if it contained not one member who had any regard to public
interest and liberty." What additional force do these observa-
tions acquire, when applied to the dominion of one community
over another!

From what has been said, it is plain, that we are without
those checks upon the representatives of Greal Britain which
alone can make them answer the end of their appointment with
respect to us; which is the preservation of the rights, and
advancement of the happiness of the governed. The direct and
inevitable consequence is, they Turn no right, to govern its.

* Hume, vol. 1. Essay 5.

52 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr.lt.

Let us examine it in another light. The House of Commons
receives all its authority from its electors, in consequence of the
right they have to a share in the legislature. Its electors are free-
holders, citizens, and others, in Great Britain. It follows, there-
fore, that all its authority is confined to Great Britain. This is
demonstrative. Sophistry, by an artful play of ambiguous terms,
may perplex and obscure it ; but reason can never confute it.
The power which one society bestows upon any man, or body of
men, can never extend beyond its own limits. The people of Great
Britain may confer an authority over themselves, but they can
never confer any over the people of America, because it is impos-
sible for them to give that to another which they never possessed
themselves. Now, I should be glad to see an attempt to prove
that a freeholder, citizen, or any other man in Great Britain, has
any inherent right to the life, property, or liberty, of a freeholder,
citizen, or any other man in America. He can have no original
and intrinsic right, because nature has distributed an equality of
rights to every man. He can have no secondary or derivative
right, because the only thing which could give him that is want-
ing— the consent of the natural proprietor. It is incumbent upon
you to demonstrate the existence of such a right, or any thing
else you may produce will be of little avail. I do not expect you
will be discouraged at the apparent difficulty. It is the peculiar
province of an enterprising genius to surmount the greatest ob-
stacles, and you have discovered an admirable dexterity in this
way. You have put to flight some of my best arguments, with
no greater pains than a few positive assertions, and as many pal-
try witticisms ; and you become altogether irresistible by adding,
with a proper degree of confidence, You know the case to be as I
state it.

When I say that the authority of Parliament is confined to
Great Britain, I speak of it in its primitive and original state.
Parliament may acquire an incidental influence over others, but
this must be by their own free consent ; for, without this, any
power it might exercise would be mere usurpation, and by no
means a just authority.

The best way of determining disputes, and of investigating

Mr. 18.] THE I" a i: m K it i; i: i r t i: d.

truth, is by descending to elementary principles. Any other
method may only bewilder and misguide tin- understanding, bnt

this will so,, ii Lead to a convincing and satisfactory crisia \'-.
observing this method, we shall learn the following truths.

Thai the existence of the Eouse of Commons depends upon
tli.' people's righl to a share in the legislature, which i

d by means of electing the members of that house. Thai I
end and intention of this righl is to preserve the life, prop< rty,
and liberty of the subject, from the encroachments of oppress
and tyranny.

Thai this end is accomplished, by means of the intimate <<,/,-
nection of interest, befrw een those members and their constituents,
the people of Ghreal Britain.

That with resped to the people of America, there is no such
intimate connection of interest, but the contrary; and therei
that end could not be answered to them; consequently, the end
ceasing, the means must cease also.

The House of Commons derives all its power from its own
real constituents, who are the people of Ghreal Britain : and that,
therefore, it has no power hut what they originally had in them-
selves.

That they had no original right to the life, property, or lib-
erty, of Americans; nor any acquired from their own consent;
and of course couM give no authority over them.

That, therefore, the House of Commons has no such author-
ity.

What need is there of a multiplicity of arguments, or a !
chain of reasoning, to inculcate these luminous principles? They
speak the plainest language to every man of common
and must carry conviction where the mental eye is not
dimmed by the mist of prejudice, partiality, ambition, or
avarice. Let us now sec what has been offered in opposition
to them.

But, by the way, let me remark, that I have levelled my bat-
tery chiefly against the authority of the House of Comr
over America; because, if that he proved doI to ea
dispute is at an end. The effica f Parliami

54 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.
pencls upon the due authority of the respective branches, to
bind the different orders and ranks of the nation.

It is said, that "in every government there must be a
supreme absolute authority lodged somewhere. In arbitrary
governments, this power is in the monarch ; in aristocratical
governments, in the nobles ; in democratical, in the people, or
the deputies of their electing. Our own government, being a
mixture of all these kinds, the supreme authority is vested in
the king, nobles, and people ; i. e., the King, House of Lords,
and House of Commons elected by the people. The supreme
authority extends as far as the British dominions extend. To
suppose a part of the British dominions, which is not subject to
the power of the British legislature, is no better sense than to
suppose a country, at one and the same time, to be, and not to
be, a part of the British dominions. If, therefore, the colony of
New-York is a part of the British dominions, the colony of New-
York is subject to, and dependent on, the supreme legislative
authority of Great Britain."

This argument is the most specious of any the advocates for
parliamentary supremacy are able to produce ; but when we
come to anatomize, and closely examine, every part of it, we
shall discover, that it is entirely composed of distorted and mis-
applied principles, together with ambiguous and equivocal
terms.

The first branch is, That "in every government, there
must be a supreme, absolute authority lodged somewhere." This
position, Avhen properly explained, is evidently just. In every
civil society, there must be a supreme power, to which all the
members of that society are subject ; for, otherwise, there could
be no supremacy, or subordination ; that is, no government at
all. But no use can be made of this principle beyond matter of
fact. To infer from thence, that unless a supreme absolute
authority be vested in one part of an empire over all the other
parts, there can be no government in the whole, is false and
absurd. Each branch may enjoy a distinct, complete legislature,
and still good government may be preserved every where. It
is in vain to assert, that two or more distinct legislatures cannot

/F/r. 18.] T H i: PA It M K K I! K I' I T I! I)

isl iii the same State. If, by the same State, be meant the
same individual community, it is true. Thus, for instance, there
cannot be two supreme legislatures in Greal Britain, dot two in

New-York. Bui if, by the same State, 1"- undersl I a Dumber

of individual societies, or bo< lies politic, united ander one com-
mon bead, then I maintain, thai there may be one distinct, com-
plete legislature in each. Thus there may be one in Greal
Britain, another in Ireland, and another in New- York ; and .-till
these several parts ma\ form but one State. In order to this,
there must indeed be some connecting, pervading principle ; bu1
this is found in the person and prerogative of the king. Be it
is, that conjoins all these individual societies into one greal b
politic. Be it is, thai is to preserve their mutual connection and
dependence, and make them all co-operate to one common end,
the general good. Bis power is equal to the purpose : and his
interest hinds him to the due prosecution of it.

Those who aver, that the independency of America on the
British Parliament, implies two sovereign authorities in the Bame
State, deceive themselves, <>r wish to deceive ethers, in two
ways; by confounding the idea of the same State with thai of
the same individual society; and by losing sighl of that share
which the king has in the sovereignty, both of Greal Britain
and America. Perhaps, indeed, it may with propriety be said,
thai the king is the only sovereign of the empire. The part
which the people have in the legislature, may more justly be
considered as a limitation of the sovereign authority, to prevenl
its being exercised in an oppressive and despotic manner. Mon-
archy is universally allowed to predominate in the constitution.
In this view, there is doI the leasl absurdity in the supposition,
that Americans have a righl to a limitation, similar to thai of
the people of Great Britain. Al any rate, there can never be
said to be two sovereign power.- in the same State, while
common king is acknowledged by every member of it

Lei us, for a moment, imagine the legislature of New-York
independent on that of Greal Britain. Where would be the
mighty inconvenience? Bow would government be frustrated,
or obstructed, by this mean.-'.' In what manner would I

56 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 18.

interfere with eacli other? In none, that I can perceive. The
affairs of government might be conducted with the greatest har-
mony, and, by the mediation of the king, directed to the same
end. He (as I before observed) will be the great connecting
principle. The several parts of the empire, though otherwise
independent on each other, will all be dependent on him. He
must guide the vast and complicated machine of government,
to the reciprocal advantage of all his dominions. There is not
the least contradiction in this; no iiwperium in imperio, as is
maintained: for the power of every distinct branch will be
limited to itself; and the authority of his Majesty over the
whole, will, like a central force, attract them all to the same
point.

The second part of your paragraph, is this: "In arbitrary
governments, this (supreme absolute) power is in the monarch ;
in aristocratical governments, in the nobles ; in democratical, in
the people, or the deputies of their electing. Our own govern-
ment, being a mixture of all these kinds, the supreme authority
is vested in the king, nobles, and people ; that is in the King,
House of Lords, and House of Commons elected by the people."

You are mistaken when you confine arbitrary government to
a monarchy. It is not the supreme power being placed in one,
instead of many, that discriminates an arbitrary from a free
government. When any people are ruled by laws, in framing
which they have no part, that are to bind them, to all intents
and purposes, without, in the same manner, binding the legisla-
tors themselves, they are, in the strictest sense, slaves ; and the
government, with respect to them, is despotic. Great Britain is
itself a free country ; but it is only so, because its inhabitants
have a share in the legislature. If they were once divested of
that they would cease to be free. So that, if its jurisdiction be
extended over other countries that have no actual share in its
legislature, it becomes arbitrary to them ; because they are des-
titute of those checks and controls which constitute that moral
security which is the very essence of civil liberty.

I will go farther, and assert, that the authority of the British
Parliament over America, would, in all probability, be a more

jEt. 18.] THE FARMER REFUTED. 5 .

intolerable and excessive species of despotism than an absolute
monarchy.* The power of an absolute prince is aol tempora
bu1 perpetual. lie is under no temptation to purchase the favor
of one pari of his dominions a1 the expense of another; bul it is
his interesl to treat them all upon the same footing. Very different
is the case with regard to the Parliament The Lords and Com-
mons, both, have a pm ate and separate interest to pursue. Tl
must be wonderfully disinterested, it' they would not make as
bear a yery disproportional part of the public burthens, to avoid
them as much as possible themselves. The people of Britain
must, in reality, be an order of superior beings, nol casl in the
same mould with the common degenerate race of mortals, if the
sacrifice of our interest and ease to theirs, be not extremely wel-
come and alluring. But should experience teach us, that they
:ire only mere mortals, fonder of themselves than their neigh-
bors; the philanthropy and integrity of their representatives
will be of a transcendent and matchless nature, should they not
gratify the natural propensities of their constituents, in order to
gratiate themselves, and enhance their popularity.
When you say, that "our government, being a mixture of
all these kinds, the supreme authority is vested in the king,
nobles, and people; that is, the King, House of Lords, and
Bouse of Commons e?cW"/ by the people;" you speak unintelli-
gibly. A person who had no1 read any more of your pamphlet
than this passage, would have concluded you were speaking of
our Governor, Council, and Assembly, whom, by a rhetorical

* Mr. Hume, in enumerating these political maxims, which will be eternally
troe, speaks thus : "H may easily he observed, thai though free governments have
been commonly the mosl happy, for those who partake of their freedom, yel are
tliey most ruinous and oppressive to th ir provinces." He goes on to give many solid
reasons for this; and, among other things, observes, that "a free state necessarily
makes a great distinction (between herself and the provinces |, and must continue
to do so, till men learn to love their neighbors as well as themselves II eon-
Brms his reflections by many historical facts, and concludes them thus: Com-
pare the pais conquis of France with Ireland, and you will be convinced of this
truth ] though tin-- latter kingdom being in a good measure peopled from England,
possesses so many rights and privileges as should naturally make it challenge better
treatment."

58 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 18.

figure, }rou styled, " king, nobles, and people." For how could
it be imagined, you would call any government our oivn, with
this description, that it is vested in the king, nobles, and peojile,
in which, our own people have not the least share? If our own
government be vested in the king, nobles, and people, how
comes it to pass, that our own people have no part in it ? The
resolution of these questions will afford a proper field in which
to display your ingenuity. You must endeavor to transmute
the people of America into those of Great Britain, or your des-
cription will be considered as mere jargon, by every man of
sense. Perhaps you may be able, in imitation of that celebrated
sophist Spinosa, to prove, that they are only modally different,
but substantially the same. Or, if you please, that syllogism of
the schools, by which a man is proved a horse, may serve as an
excellent model. If I recollect right, it is in these words :

Homo est animal:
Equus est animal :
Ergo, homo est equus.

which is rendered thus: A man is an animal: A horse is an
animal: Therefore a man is a horse. By the same method of
argumentation, you may prove, that, as Britons and Americans
are genetically the same, they are numerically so, likewise, as your
description implies. You may form a syllogism thus :

Britons are men :

Americans are the same:

Therefore, Britons and Americans are the same.

This argument will be as good as the one I am next going to
examine.

"The supreme authority," you say, "extends as far as the
British dominions extend. To suppose a part of the British do-
minions, which is not subject to the power of the British legis-
lature, is no better sense, than to suppose a country at one and
the same time, to be, and not to be, a part of the British domin-
ions. If, therefore, the colony of New-York be a part of the

jet. 18.] 'I ii E I'A R M EH 1: i; PUTED. 59

British dominions, the colony of New-Yori is subjed and de-
pendenl on the supreme Legislative authority of Great Britain."

I '. " this supreme authority," [suppose you an the Par-
liament of Greal Britain. I deny thai it extends as far as the
British dominions extend; and I have given many substantia]
reasons for this denial : whereas you have never offered any t<>
prove that it does. 5Tou have begged the question, and taken
thai for granted, which is the very point in debate. As toyoui
general position, thai there musl be a Bupreme absolute autho-
rity Lodged somewhere, I have explained in whal sense it ought
to be understood; and shown, thai the Beveral parts of the em-
pire may each enjoy a separate independenl Legislature, with
regard to each other, under one common head, the king.

The seeming proof you have subjoined, is entirely fallacious;
and depends upon the use of the terms British dominions, and
British Legislature, in an equivocal sense. The former may either
signify countries subject to the king, or to the legislature of Great
Britain. When "\ve say French dominions, we mean countries
subject to the king of France. In like manner, when we say
British dominions, the most proper signification is, countries
subjed to the king of Great Britain. At leasl there is no impro-
priety in using it in this sense.*

IT. by the British Legislature, you mean nothing more than
the Parliament of Great Britain, it is well; but if you affix a
different idea to it, you are uol arbitrari/// t<> ini]><>se it upon
others. If there be any chimera in your fond imagination, which
you express by that term, you must allow others the Liberty to
think it such. In short, if, by the term, you mean an authority
resident in one part of his Majesty's dominions, to make Laws for
every other part of them; you ought not to apply ii in this
sense, till you have proved thai such an authority does really

jl : especially in a controversy aboul thai very matter.

\)y the British dominions, I mean the countries subject to his

* Or, if there is, all yonr objection amounts to this : that we have adopted an
improper mode of expression : and, for t h.- future, we may, in the language of the
honorable House of Assembly, call the colonies his Majesty's American dominions.

60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 18.

Britannic Majesty, in his royal capacity. By the British legis-
lature, I will suppose you intend simply the Parliament of Great
Britain. Let us now try whether, " to suppose there may be a
part of his Britannic Majesty's dominions, which is not subject
to the Parliament, be no better sense, than to suppose a country,
at one and the same time, to be, and not to be, a part of the
British dominions." It is impossible for any thing to be, and not
to be ; but it involves no contradictions to say, that a country
may be in subjection to his Britannic Majesty, and, in that sense,
a part of the British dominions, without being at all dependent
on the Parliament of Great Britain.* The colony of New- York,
therefore, may be a branch of the British empire, though not
subordinate to the legislative authority of Britain.

Upon the whole, if, by the British dominions, you mean ter-
ritories subject to the Parliament, you adhere to your usual
fallacy, and suppose what you are bound to prove. I deny that
we are dependent on the legislature of Great Britain ; and yet I
maintain that we are a part of the British empire ; but in this
sense only, as being the free born subjects of his Britannic
Majesty.

Thus I have fully examined that argument, which is esteemed
the bulwark of the doctrine of Parliamentary supremacy ; and
I flatter myself, clearly refuted it. The main pillar being now
broken down, the whole structure may easily be demolished. I
shall, therefore, proceed Avith alacrity in the completion of the
work. But it is worthy of observation, that a cause must be
extremely weak, which admits of no better supports.

Your next argument (if it deserve the name) is this : "Legis-
lation is not an inherent right in the colonies : many colonies

* I doubt not. you will here be disposed to cavil, by urging, that if we deny
the authority of Parliament, we also reject his Britannic Majesty, since he com-
poses a part of it : but, let it be considered, that the Parliament, as such, is a
political institution, not a physical being. We may deny his Majesty, in his politi-
cal capacity, as a part of the legislature of Great Britain, and yet acknowledge
him in a similar political capacity, as a part of the legislature of New- York. This
is an obvious distinction, and cannot be contested, without an affront to common
sense.

JEt. 18. J THE FARMER REPUTED. 61

have been established and subsisted long without it. The I.' -
man' colonies bad do legislative authority. It was nol till the
latter period of their republic, that tin- privileges of Roman citi-
zens, among which, that of voting in Assemblies of the people,
at Rome, was a principal one, were extended to the inhabits
of Italy. All the laws of the empire were enacted al Elome.
Neither their colonies nor conquered countries, had any thing to
do with legislation."

The fundamental source of all your errors, sophisn
reasonings, is a total ignorance of the natural rights of man'
kind. Were you one.' to become acquainted with these, you
could never entertain a thought, thai all men are not, by nature,
entitled to a parity of privileges. Yon would be convinced, that
natural liberty is a gift of the beneficent Creator, to the whole
human race; and that civil liberty is founded in that: and fan-
not be wrested from any people, without the mosl manifest viola-
tion of justice. Oivil liberty is only natural liberty, modified and
secured by the sttii<-ti<>ns of civil society. It is not a thing, in its own
nature, precarious and dependent on human will and caprice;
but it is conformable to the constitution of man, as well as n<
sary to the well-being of society.

Upon this principle, colonists, as well as other men, have a
right to civil liberty, for, if it ho conducive to the happiness
society (and reason and experience testify that il isi.it is evident,

that rvcry society, of whatsoever kind, has an absolute and per

fed right to it, which can never be withheld withoul cruelty and
injustice. The practice* of Rome towards her colonies, cannot
afford the shadow of an argumenl against this. That mistres
the world was often unjust. And the treatment of her depend*
cut provinces, is one of the greatest blemishes in her history.

Through the want of that civil liberty for which we are so

warmly contending, they groaned under every Bpecies of wan-
ton oppression, if we are wise, we shall take warning B

* If her practice proves any thing, it equally proves, thai sin- had a righ( to
plunder them :i^ much as possible. This doctrine, I presume, will not 1"' >\\--\
able to some ears. There are many who would rejoice to see America plund
in a like manner provided they could be appointed the instruments,

62 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

tlience ; and consider a like state of dependence, as more to be
dreaded than pestilence and famine.

The right of colonists, therefore, to exercise a legislative
power, is an inherent right. It is founded upon the rights of
all men to freedom and haj:>piness. For civil liberty cannot
possibly have any existence, where the society, for whom laws
are made, have no share in making them ; and where the inter-
est of their legislators is not inseparably interwoven with theirs.
Before you asserted, that the right of legislation was derived
"from the indulgence or grant of the parent state," you should
have proved two things : — that all men have not a natural right
to freedom ; and that civil liberty is not advantageous to society.

" The position," you say, " that we are bound by no laws but
those to which we have assented, either by ourselves, or by our
representatives, is a novel position, unsupported by any authori-
tative record of the British constitution, ancient or modern. It
is republican in its very nature ; and tends to the utter subver-
sion of the English monarchy.

" This position has arisen from an artful change of terms.
To say, that an Englishman is not bound by any laws but those
to which the representatives of the nation have given their con-
sent, is to say what is true. But to say that an Englishman
is bound by no laws but those to which he hath consented, in
person, or by his representative, is saying what never was true,
and never can be true. A great part of the people have no vote
in the choice of representatives ; and, therefore, are governed
by laws to which they never consented, either by themselves,
or by their representatives."

The foundation of the English constitution rests upon this
principle ; that no laws have any validity or binding force, with-
out the consent and approbation of the people, given in the per-
sons of their representatives, periodically elected by themselves.
This constitutes the democratical part of the government.

It is also undeniably certain, that no Englishman, who can
be deemed a free agent in a political view, can be bound by laws,
to which he has not consented, either in person, or by his repre-
sentative. Or, in other words, every Englishman (exclusive of

jEt. 18.] THE FARMER REFUTED.

the mercantile and trading part of the nation) who p<
Lolil to the value of forty shillings per annum, bas :i right
share in the Legislature; which he exercises, bj giving hu
in the election of some person be approves of as bis representa-
tive.

"The true reason," says Blackstone, " of requiring any quali-
fication, with regard to property in voters, is to exclude such
persons as are in s" mean a situation, thai they are esteemed to
bave no "-ill of their own. If these persons had votes, they
would be tempted to dispose of them, under Borne undue
influence or other. This would give a great, an artful, or a
wealthy man, a larger share in elections than Is consistenl with
genera] liberty. If it were probable thai every man would give
his vote freely, and without influence of any kind; then, upon
the true theory and genuine principles of liberty, every mem-
he]' <>f the community, however poor, should have a vote in
electing those delegates, to whose charge is committed the dis-
posal of his property, his liberty, and life. Bui since thai
hardly be expected, in persons of indigent fortunes, or Buch
as arc under the immediate dominion of others; al] popular
States have been obliged to establish certain qualifications,
whereby some, who are suspected to bave do will of their
own. are excluded from voting; in order to se1 other individ-
uals, whose wills may be supp< «ed independent, more thoroughly
upon a level with each other."

Bence, it appears, that such "of the j pie as have uo

in the choice of representatives, and, therefore, are governed
by laws to which they have no1 consented, either by themselves
or by their representatives," are only those "persons, who
in so mean a situation, thai they are esteemed to have no will
of their own." Every fret agent, every free man. possessing a
freehold of forty shillings per annum, is, by the British consti-
tution, entitled to a vote in the election of those who are in-
vested with the disposal of his life, bis liberty, and property.

It is therefore evident, to a demonstration, thai unles
freeagentvn America be permitted to enjoy the same privil<
we are entirely stripped of the benefits of the constitute

64 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 18.

precipitated into an abyss of slavery. For, we are deprived of
that immunity which, is the grand pillar and support of free-
dom. And this cannot be done without a direct violation of
the constitution, which decrees to every free agent, a share in the
legislature.

It deserves to be remarked here, that those very persons in
Great Britain, who are in so mean a situation as to be excluded
from a part in elections, are in more eligible circumstances than
they would be in who have every necessary qualification.

They compose a part of that society to whose government
they are subject. They are nourished and maintained by it ;
and partake in every other emolument for which they are quali-
fied. They have, no doubt, most of them, relations and con-
nections among those who are privileged to vote ; and, by that
means, are not entirely without influence in the appointment
of their rulers. They are not governed by laws made ex-
pressly and exclusively for them ; but by the general laws of
their country, equally obligatory on the legal electors, and on
the law makers themselves. So that that they have nearly the
same security against oppression, which the body of the people
have.

To this we may add, that they are only under a conditional
prohibition, which industry and good fortune may remove.
They may, one day, accumulate a sufficient property to enable
them to emerge out of their present state. Or, should they die
in it, their situation is not entailed upon their posterity by a
fixed and irremediable doom. They, agreeably to the ordinary
vicissitudes of human affairs, may acquire what their parents
were deficient in.

These considerations plainly show, that the people in Ame-
rica, of all ranks and conditions, opulent as well as indigent (if
subjected to the British Parliament), would be upon a less favor-
able footing than that part of the people of Great Britain, who
are in so mean a situation, that they are supposed to have no will
of their own. The injustice of this, must be evident to every
man of common sense.

I shall now proceed to take such a survey of the political his-

JEt. 18.] T ii E i'.\ R m i: R R i: r [JT i: D. 65

tory of the oolonies as may be necessary to oasl a lull 1 i lt 1 1 1 upon
their presenl contest ; and, al the same time, to give the public u
jusl conception of the profound and comprehensive knowle*
yon have of the dispute, the fairness and candor with which you
have represented Pacts, and the immaculate purity of your inten-
tions.

But, previous to this, the following observations may nol
destitute of utility.

I lis Holiness the Pope, by virtue of being Christ's Vicegerent
upon earth, piously assumed to himself a right to dispose of the
territories of infidels as he thought lit. Ami in process of time
all Christian princes learned to imitate his example, very libe-
rally giving and granting away the dominions and property of
Pagan countries. They did not seem to be satisfied with the title
which Christianity gave them to the next world only, but chose
to infer from thence an exclusive right to this world also.

I must refer it to sounder casuists than lam to determine con-
cerning the consistency or justice of this principle. It is sufficient
for my purpose to observe that it is the only foundation upon
which Queen Elizabeth and her successors undertook to disp
of the lands in America. Whatever right, therefore, we may
suppose to have existed, it was vested entirely in the crown ; the
nation had no concern in it. It is an invariable maxim, that
every acquisition of foreign territory is at the absolute disposal
of the king; and unless he annex it to the realm, it is no part of
it. Ami if it be once alienated, it can neverbeunited to it with-
out the concurrence of the proprietors.

Were there any room to don ht that the sole right of the terri-
tories in America was vested in the crown, a convincing argu-
ment might be drawn from the principle of English tenure. By
means of the feudal system the king became, and still contui
to be, in a legal sense, the original proprietor, or lord paramount,
of all the lands in England.* Agreeably to this rule, he must
have been the original proprietor of all the lands in America, and

* See Blackstonc, vol. 1.
B 5

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 18.

was therefore authorized to dispose of them in what manner he

thought proper.

The great inquiry, therefore, is concerning the terms on which
these lands were really dispensed.

"The first charter granted by the crown, for the purpose of
colonization, is" not " that of King James the first, to the two
Virginia companies," as you assert. Previous to that, there was
one from Queen Elizabeth to Sir Walter Ealeigh, for all the ter-
ritory he might discover and plant between the thirty-third and
fortieth degrees of north latitude, which was not actually pos-
sessed by any Christian prince, or inhabited by any Christian
people ; to have, hold, occupy, and enjoy the same, to him, his
heirs and assigns for ever, with all prerogatives, jurisdictions, roy-
alties, privileges, franchises, thereunto belonging, by sea or land;
only reserving to herself, her heirs and successors, the fifth part
of all gold and silver ore that might be acquired in those regions.
By this grant, Queen Elizabeth relinquished the whole legis-
lative and executive power to Sir Walter, upon no other condi-
tion than simple homage, and the above-mentioned fifth part of
gold and silver ore ; which shows that the crown considered itself
as invested with the absolute and entire disposal of the territories
in America ; and the passive conduct of the nation declares its
acquiescence in the same.

After many successless efforts to plant a colony in Virginia,
this charter was forfeited and abrogated by the attainder of Sir
Walter Ealeigh; and then succeeded that of King James the
first, to the two Virginia companies, dated the 10th of April,
1606. This was afterwards altered and improved by a second
charter, issued in 1609. There was also a third, dated March
12, 1611-12. The mention of this last would not have answered
your purpose, and, therefore, you chose to pass it over in silence.
In neither of these three, is there the least reservation made
of any authority to Parliament. The colonies are considered in
them as entirely without the realm, and, consequently, without
the jurisdiction of its legislature.

In the first charter from King James, there are the following
clauses :

jEt. 18.] T 1 1 E V A ltMER R E I ' I ' T B D. 61

" We do ordain, establish, and decree, &c, thai each of the
Baid colonies shall have a council, which shall govern and order
all matters and all causes, which shall arise, grow, or happen to,
or within the same ; according to such laws, ordinances, and in-
structions, as shall be, in that behalf given and signed with our
hand, or sign manual, and pass under the privy seal of our realm
of England."

" And that, also, then' shall be a council established here in
England, which shall consist of thirteen persons, to be for that
purpose appointed ; which shall have the superior mai and

direction only of, and for, all matters, that shall or may concern

the government of the said several colonies. "

•■ Also, we do for us, our heirs, &c., declare, thai all and every
the persons, being our subjects, which shall dwell and inhabit
within every, or any, the said several colonies, and every of their
children, which shall happen to be born within any of the said
several colonies, shall have and enjoy all liberties, franchises, and
immunities, within any of our other dominions, to all intents and
purposes, as if they had been abiding and born within our realm of
E iland"

This latter declaration (to which there is one correspondent,
or similar, in every American grant), plainly indicates, that it
was not the royal intention to Comprise the colonies within the
realm of England The powers committed to the two coun-
cils, demonstrate the same; for they would be incompatible with
the idea of any other than distinct States.

The King could neither exercise, himself, nor empower others
to exercise, such an authority as was really vested in the council,
without a breach of the Constitution, it' the colonies had been a
part of the realm, or within the jurisdiction of Parliament. Such
an exertion of power would have been unconstitutional and ille-
gal, and of course inadmissible: but we find it was never called
in question by the legislature ; and we may conclude from thence,
that America was universally considered as being without the
jurisdiction of Parliament.

The second charter explains and amplifies the privileges of
the company, erecting them into ''one body or commonalty |

68 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 18.

petual ;" and confirming to them the property of their former
territories, with the addition of all the islands lying within one
hundred miles of the shores of both seas; together with all
" commodities, jurisdictions, royalties, privileges, franchises, and pre-
eminences," to be held by the king, his heirs and successors, "in
free and common soccage." They were only to pay one fifth part
of all the gold and silver ore they might find, in lieu of all ser-
vices.

Their government was vested in a council, first appointed by
the king ; which, upon every necessary occasion, was to be sum-
moned together by the company's treasurer. But immediately
after the persons appointed are named in the charter, it is de-
clared, that " the said council and treasurer, or any of them,
shall be henceforth " nominated, chosen, continued, displaced,
changed, altered, or supplied, as death, or other several occasions
shall require, out of the company of the said adventurers, by the
voice of the greater part of the said company and adventurers ;"
every member, newly elected, to be sworn into office by the Lord
Chancellor.

This council had "full power and authority to make, ordain,
and establish, all manner of orders, laws, directions, instructions,
forms and ceremonies, of government and magistracy, fit and ne-
cessary for, and concerning, the government of the said colo-
ny ; and the same to abrogate, revoke, or change, at all times, not
only within the precincts of the said colony, but also on the
seas, in going or coming, to or from the said colony."

This charter is also silent with respect to Parliament; the
authority of which is evidently precluded by the whole tenor
of it.

You, sir, took no notice of the circumstance, that the council
was to be nominated, chosen, continued, &c, out of the Virginia
company itself, agreeably to the voice of the majority. You
omitted this, and gave quite a different turn to the matter : but
herein you acted not at all discordant with your usual practice.
Nor did you esteem it politic to transcribe the following clause :
" that the said company, and every of them, their factors and
assigns, shall be free of all subsidies and customs in Virginia,

jEt. 18.] T II E l'.\ R M i: H R E PUTBD 69

for the space of one and twenty yeans; and from aft taa
impositions for ever, apon any goods or merchandises, al any time
or times hereafter, either upon importation thither, < »rta-

ti<Mi from thence."

The third charter is a still farther enlargement of their terri-
tory and privileges, and is thai by which their presenl form of
government is modelled. The following extracl will show the
nature of it. "We do hereby ordain and grant, thai the Baid
treasurer and company of adventurers and planters aforesaid,
shall and may, once every week, and oftener, a1 their pleasure,
hold and keep a courl or assembly, for the better order and ■_
en i! m Mit of the said plantation ; and that any five persons of OUT
council for the time being, of which company the treasurer, or
his deputy, to be always one, and the cumber of fifteen persons,
at the least, of the generality of the said company assembled
together, in such manner as hath been heretofore used and accus-
tomed, shall be reputed to he, and shall be, a Bufficienl courl for
the handling, ordering, and dispatching of all such casual and
particular occurrences, as shall, from time to time, happen,
touching and concerning the said plantation. And, neverthe-
less, for the candling, ordering, and disposing of tk
and affairs of greater weighl and importance, such as shall, in
any sort, concern the weal public, and the general good of tin-
said plantation, as, namely, the manner of government, from time
to time, to be used, the ordering and disposing of the lands and
possessions, and the settling and establishing of a trad there, or such
like, there shall be held ami kept, r\cyy year for ever, one
genera] and sol, -inn assembly. In all and every of which said
great and general courts, so assembled, our will and pleasure is,
and we do, for ns, our heirs and sue - for ever, give and

grant to the said treasurer and company, or the greater number
of them, so assembled, that they shall and may have full power
and authority, from time to time, and at all times hereafter, to
elect and choose discreet persons to be of our said council, for tin-
first colony of Virginia; and to nominate and appoint such
officers, as they shall think- tit and requisite for the govermm
managing, ordering, and dispatching of the affairs of the Baid

70 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

company ; and snail likewise have full power and authority to
ordain and make such laws and ordinances for the good and
welfare of the said plantation, as to them, from time to time,
shall be thought requisite and meet ; so always, as the same be not
contrary to the laws and statutes of this our realm of England"

By this charter, King James divested himself wholly both of
the legislative and executive authority : but, for his own secu-
rity, prescribed a model for their civil constitution. Their laws
were not to be contrary to the laws and statutes of his realm of
England ; which restriction was inserted into all the subsequent
charters, with some little variation, such as, that their laws
should be " consonant to reason, and not repugnant, or contrary,
but as near as conveniently may be, agreeable to the laws, statutes,
and rights of this our kingdom of England."

This mode of expression, so indefinite in itself, shows that
the use made of the clause, by some ministerial advocates, is by
no means natural or warrantable. It could only be intended to
set forth the British Constitution as a pattern for theirs: and
accordingly we find, that upon the arrival of Sir George Yardly
in Virginia, soon after this patent was procured, the government
was regulated upon a new plan, that it might "resemble the
British Constitution, composed of two Houses of Parliament,
and a sovereign. The number of the council was increased,
intending this body should represent the House of Lords, while
the House of Commons was composed of burgesses, assembled
from every plantation and settlement in the country."

There might be a great dissimilarity between the laws of
Virginia and those of Great Britain, and yet not an absolute con-
trariety : so that the clause in question is not explicit or deter-
minate enough, to authorize the conclusion drawn from it. Be-
sides, if the colonies were within the realm of England, there
would be no necessity for any provision in favor of its laws :
and if they were without (as is clearly implied by the clause
itself), it must be a contradiction to suppose its jurisdiction could
extend beyond its own limits.

But the true interpretation may be ascertained, beyond a
doubt, by the conduct of those very princes who granted the

JEt. 18.] THE FARMER REFUTED. 71

charters. They were certainly the besl judges of their own in-
tention, and they have lefl as indubitable marks of it.

In April, L621, about nine years after the third Virginia
charter was issued, a bill was introduced into the II of Com-
mons, for indulging the subjects of England with the priviL
of fishing upon the coast of America: bul the Souse . - in-
formed by the Secretary of State, by order of his Majesty Bang
-lames, that " America was not annexed to the realm ; andthai it
was not fitting thai Parliament should make laws for those count.

In the reign of his successor, Charles the First (who grai
the Massachusetts ami Maryland charters), the same hill v^afi
again proposed in the House, and was, in the like manner, re
fused the royaJ assent; with a similar declaration, that "it was
unnecessary; that the colonies were without the realm <m<l juris-
diction of Parliarm ,>/."

Circumstances which evidently prove, that these clauses v.
not inserted to render the colonies dependent on the Parliament ;
but only (as I have observed) to mark out a model of govern-
ment for them. If, then, the colonies were, at first, without tin
realm and jurisdiction of Parliament, no human authority could

rwards alter the case, without their own voluntary, full, and
express approbation.

The settlement of New England was the next in succession,
and was instigated by a detestation of civil and ecclesiasl
tyranny. The principal design of the enterprise, was to be
emancipated from their sufferings, under the authority of Par-
liament and the laws of England. For this purpose, the Puri-
tans had before retired to foreign countries, particularly to Bol-
land. But Sir Robert Naughton, Secretary of State, ha vim
remonstrated to his Majesty, concerning the impolicy and ab-
surdity of dispeopling his own dominions, by mean- of religious
oppression, obtained permission for the Puritans to take up then
abode in America, where they found an asylum from their fori
misfortunes.

Previous to their embarkation at Holland, they had stipu-
lated with the Virginia Company,* fora tract of land 'mcontigvAtij

* This was after they had received their third charter.

72 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 18.

with Hudson's Eiver: but when they arrived in America (by
some misconduct of the Pilot), they found themselves at Cape
Cod, which was without the boundaries of the Virginia Patent.
There the season compelled them to remain; and there they
have prosecuted their settlements.

They looked upon themselves as having reverted to a state
of nature ; but, being willing still to enjoy the protection of their
former sovereign, they executed the following instrument.

"In the name of God, Amen! We, whose names are un-
derwritten, the loyal subjects of our dread Sovereign Lord,
King James, of Great Britain, &c, King* defender of the
faith, &c, having undertaken, for the glory of God, and the
advancement of the Christian faith, and the honor of our
King and country, a voyage to plant the first colony in the
northern part of Virginia, do, by these presents, mutually, in
the presence of God and one another, covenant and combine
ourselves together, into a civil body politic, for our better
order and preservation, and furtherance of the ends aforesaid ;
and by virtue hereof, to enact, constitute, and frame, such just
and equal laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions, and officers, from
time to time, as shall be thought most meet and convenient for
the general good of the colony ; unto which we promise all due
submission and obedience.

" In witness whereof, we have hereunto subscribed our names,
at Cape Cod, November 11, 1620."

This was the original constitution of New Plymouth. It
deserves to be remarked here, that these first settlers possessed
their lands by the most equitable and independent title, that of a
fair and honest purchase from their natural owners, the Indian
tribes. King James, soon after, erected a council at Plymouth,
in the county of Devon, "for the planting, ruling, ordering, and

* This ought to silence the infamous calumnies of those, who represent the first
settlers in New England, as enemies to kingly government ; and who are, in their
own opinions, wondrous witty, by retailing the idle and malicious stories that have
been propagated concerning them ; such as their having erased the words King,
Kingdom, and the like, out of their Bibles, and inserted in their stead, Civil Magis-
trate, Parliament, and Republic.

Mt. is.] THE I' a R M i: i; i: i: P i T r. i>. 7".

governing, of New Englandin America;" and granted to "them,
their successors and assigns, all thai pari of America, lying and
being, in breadth, from forty degrees of north latitude from the
equinoctial line, to the forty-eighth degree of the said northerly
latitude, inclusively ; and in Length of, and within nil the breadth
aforesaid, throughoul ;ill the main land, l'r<>m sea to sea ; together
with all the firm lands, soils, grounds, havens, ports, riv
waters, fishings, mint's, minerals, precious stones, quarries, and
all ami singular other commodities, jurisdictions, royalties, privi-
leges, franchises, and pre-eminences,, both within the said trad of
land upon the main, ami also within the islands ami se^s adja-
cent— To lie held bf his Majesty, his heirs ami BUCC -. in

free ami common soccage: ami the only consideration to he, the
fifth part of all gold ami silver ore, for ami in respect of nil <in<l
all manner of duties, di ni<ni<l.<, and services."

This council was vested with the sole power of legislation;
the election ami appointment of all officers, civil and military;
authority to coin money, make war and peace, and a variety of
other signal privileges. The colony of New Plymouth was com-
prehended within the grant. In consequence of which, its in-
habitants, a few years after, purchased the claim of the patent
with all their rights ami immunities, ami became an independent

te by charter.

The same motives that induced the settlement of New
Plymouth, did also produce that of Massachusetts. It was

firsl colonized by virtue «.i a patent from the council ;it Ply-
mouth ; and in a year after, by a charter from King Charles the

First, dated the 4th of March, in the fourth year of his reign;

by which the adventurers ami inhabitants were formed into
" one body politic and corporate, by the name of the Governor

ami Company of the Massachusetts Bay, in New England," and
clothed with powers and privileges resembling those of the
colony of Ni Plymouth.

It happened .-nine time 1m fore this, that then' was a dissolu-
tion of the Virginia Company, by a royal proclamation, dated
loth of July, L624; by which the colony became more immedi-
ately dependent on the king. The Virginians wei itly

74 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 18.

alarmed at this, and forthwith presented a remonstrance to the
Throne ; in which they signified an apprehension of " designs
formed against their rights and privileges." In order to banish
their fears, the Lords of the Council (in a letter dated the 22d of
July 1634,) gave them an assurance, by his Majesty's direction,
" that all their estates, trade, freedom, and privileges, should be
enjoyed by them, in as extensive a manner as they enjoyed them
before the recall of the company's patent." Agreeably to this,
their former constitution was confirmed and continued.

The Maryland charter is the next in order, of which you, sir,
have made no mention. It was granted by King Charles the
First to Lord Baltimore ; and contains such ample and exalted
privileges, that no man in his senses can read it, without being
convinced it is repugnant to every idea of dependence on Parlia-
ment.

It bestows on him, " all the country of Maryland, and the
islands adjacent ; together with all their commodities, jurisdic-
tions, privileges, prerogatives, royal rights, &c. &c, of what kinds
soever, as well by sea as land ; and constitutes him, his heirs and
assigns, true and absolute lords and proprietaries of the said
country, and of all the premises aforesaid; saving always the
faith and allegiance, and the sovereign dominion, due to himself,
his heirs and successors : to be holden of the Kings of England,
in free and common soccage, by fealty only, and not in capite ;
paying two Indian arrows every year, and also the fifth part of
all gold and silver ore which shall from time to time happen to
be found : Granting also full and absolute power to the said Lord
Baltimore, his heirs, &c, to ordain, make, enact, and publish,
any laws whatsoever, by and with the advice, assent, and approba-
tion, of the freemen of the said province, or the greater part of
them ; or of their delegates or deputies ; whom, for the enacting
of the said laws, when, and as often as need shall require, we
will, that the said now Lord Baltimore, and his heirs, shall
assemble in such sort and form, as to him and them, shall seem
best. Provided, nevertheless, that the said laws be consonant to
reason, and be not repugnant, or contrary, but as near as conven-
iently may be, agreeable to the laws, statutes, and rights of this
ou kingdom of England."

JEt. 18.] T II E I ' A R M E R R i: I • I T I ■'. D. 75

In another place it is ordained, thai he the "said Lord Balti-
more, may from thru to time/or ever, have and enjoy, the customs
and subsidies, within the said ports, harbors, &c, within the
province aforesaid, payable or dne for merchandises and wares,
there tn be laden and unladen; the said subsidies and customs, to
be reasonably assessed (npon any occasion), by themselvi and the
people there, as aforesaid; to whom we give power by these pre-
sents, for as, our heirs and successors, upon just cause and in due
proportion, to assess and impose the same."

1 confine myself to these extracts, to avoid prolixity, and pass
over the enumeration of those many extensive prerogatives this
charter confers ; such as the appointment of all officers, civil and
military; the power of making war and peace; the establish-
ment of boroughs and cities ; with all necessary immunities, and
the like.

In the fourteenth year of Charles the Second, the two colo-
nics, Connecticut and New Haven, petitioned the King to unite
them into one colony, which was complied with. Privileges, as
valuable and extensive as any that had been before granted,
were comprised in their charter. There was only a reservation
of allegiance to the king, without the smallest share of the legis-
lative or executive power. The next year, Providence and Rhode
Island procured a charter, with privileges exactly correspondent
to those of Connecticut.

You are pleased to assert, "that the charters of Rhode [sland
and Connecticut are simply matters of incorporation;" and pro-
duce an extract in confirmation of this assertion.

I should be astonished at so extraordinary a deviation from
truth, if there were not many instances similar to it. Not only
the whole tenor of their charters, but their constant practice and
form of government, hitherto, declare the reverse of your ass
tion. But, that I may not unnecessarily prolong this letter by a
quotation of the diiferenl parts of the respective charters, give
me leave to present you with an account of the constitution oi
these colonies, which was laid before the House of Lords in Jan-
uary 1734.

Connecticut and Rhode Island," say the commissioners o

76 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

Trade and Plantations, " are charter governments, where almost
the whole power of the crown is delegated to the people, who
make annual election of their Assembly, their Councils, and
their Governors ; likewise to the majority of which Assemblies,
Councils, and Governors, respectively, being collective bodies,
the upwer of making laws is granted ; and, as their charters are
worded, they can, and do, make laws, even without the Govern-
or's assent, no negative voice being reserved to them, as Govern-
ors, in said charters. These colonies have the power of making
laws for their better government and support ; and are not under
any obligation, by their respective constitutions, to return au-
thentic copies of their laws to the crown, for approbation or dis-
allowance ; nor to give any account of their proceedings ; nor
are their laws repealable by the crown ; but the validity of them
depends upon their not being contrary, but as nearly as may be,
agreeable to the laws of England."

As to the expression, as other our liege people of this our realm
of England, or any other corporation or body politic, within the
same ; if any stress be laid on the particle other, it will imply not
only that the colonies were simple matters of corporation, but
that the inhabitants of them were considered as being within the
realm of England. But this cannot be admitted as true Avithout
contradicting other clauses of the same charters. Thus, in the
preamble to that of Rhode Island, it is said that the first planters
" did, by the consent of our royal progenitors, transport them-
selves out of this Kingdom of England into America." And in
each of the charters the King stipulates that all the children
born in America, shall enjoy " all the liberties and immunities
of free and natural subjects, within any of his dominions, as if
they and every of them were born within the realm of England."

The vague and improper manner in which this particle is
used in many other places of the several charters, will not allow
it the least weight in the present instance. In the eleventh arti-
cle of the third Virginia charter there is this expression :— " All
such, and so many of our loving subjects, or any other strangers
that will, &c." The same rule of inference that makes Ehode
Island and Connecticut simple corporations, will also transform

—

JEt. 18.] T 1 1 E F A R M K K I! I'. 1 ' I T 1 1 I ) . 11

the king's loving subjects into mere strangers, which I appre-
hend cannot be done without some degree of absurdity.

In the fifteenth year of Charles the Second, Carolina was
erected into a principality. A patenl dated March 24, L663,
was granted to eight lord proprietors, vesting them with all its
rights, privileges, prerogatives, royalties, &c, and the whole
Legislative and executive authority, together with the power of
creating a nobility. 'The form of government was determined
bya compact between the people and the proprietors, which con-
tained one hundred and twenty articles; and "these were to be
and remain the sacred and unalterable ride and form of govern-
ment in Carolina forever." A Palatine was to be erected from
among the proprietaries, who was to govern the principality
during his life ; and at his demise, the surviving lords were to
succeed him according to the order of seniority. The legislative
power was to reside in the parliament of that country, consisting
of the Palatine as sovereign ; an upper House, in which the pro-
prietors or their deputies, the Governor and the Nobility, were
to sit ; and a lower House composed of the delegates of the people.
There was likewise a court established, the members of which
were three proprietaries, and the Palatine as president, and in
this court the whole executive authority was Lodged.

There were also several other courts: the Chief Justice's, the
High Constable's, the Chancellor's, and High Steward's Court.
The principal officers of the State, in number, titles, and power,
resembled those of the realm of England. The proprietors of ( !a-
rolina considered themselves as possessed of every requisite
towards forming a separate independent State, and were always
extremely jealous of any encroachments. They even disputed
the King's authority to establish Courts of Vice Admiralty within
their precincts, though for the examination and punishment oi
offences committed without them, and always appointed as Ad-
miral of their own. One of their governors was deposed, for "ac-
cepting a commission under King William, as Judge of the Ad
miralty, when he had, at the same tune, a commission from the
Lords proprietaries for the same office."

The Philadelphia charter was next granted, and contained

78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

almost an equality of privileges with that of Maryland. There
was, indeed, a reserve in favor of Parliament, perfectly singular
and unprecedented in any foregoing charter ; and which must
either be rejected, or the general tenor of the grant becomes un-
intelligible.

It happened that the charter of Massachusetts was vacated
by a decision in Chancery, and a new one was conferred by
William and Mary. The agents for that colony did not accept
it, till they had first consulted the most judicious civilians and
politicians upon the contents of it ; and then drew up an instru-
ment in which they assigned the reasons of their acceptance.
The following extract will serve to show their sense of it : " The
colony," say they, " is now made a province ; and the General
Court has, with the King's approbation, as much power in New
England as the King and Parliament have in England. They
have all English privileges and liberties, and can be touched by
no laiv, and by no tax, but of their own making. All the liberties
of their religion are for ever secured."

You say, that "the power to levy taxes is restrained to pro-
vincial and local purposes only ; and to be exercised over such,
only, as are inhabitants and proprietors of the said province."

They are empowered " to levy proportionable and reason-
able assessments, rates, and taxes, for our service in the ne-
cessary defence and support of the government of the said prov-
ince or territory ; and the protection and preservation of the in-
habitants there." The defence and support of government, and
their own protection and preservation, are the purposes for
which they are to raise supplies ; and, in my humble opinion,
there are no others to which any society is under an obligation
to contribute its wealth or property.

I shall only make one more observation upon this charter ;
which is, that there was a reservation in it of liberty for the peo-
ple of England to fish upon their coasts, which would have been
useless and absurd, had that province been a part of the realm,
and within the jurisdiction of Parliament.

Were it necessary to elucidate, still more, a point which is so
conspicuous from the several charters of the colonies, as well as

JEt. 18.] T 1 1 E V \ R M I : R R I ; P i T 1 5 1 1 . 79

the express declarations of those princes by whom they were
granted, to wit, "that the colonies are without the realm and juris-
diction of Parliament;" I might enumerate many Btriking cir-
cumstances besides those I have already mentioned. Bui as the
case is by this time sufficiently clear, [shall confine myself to
the recital of only one or two more transactions.

An act of the twenty-fifth of Charles the Second, was the
first that ever imposed duties on the colonies for any purpi
and these, as the preamble itself recites, were simply as a regula-
tion of trade, and were of a prohibitory nature. Notwithstand-
ing this, il was the source of great dissatisfaction; and was one
><\' the principal causes of the insurrection in Virginia, under
Colonel Bacon, which after his death Bubsided; and then the
province sent agents to England, to remonstrate " against taxes
and impositions being laid on the colony, by any authority bu1
that of the (ieneral Assembly." In consequence of this, a de-
claration was obtained, under the privy seal of Bang Charles,
dated nineteenth of April, 1676, to this effect: that •• taxes ought
not to be laid upon the proprietors and inhabitants of the colony,
but by the common consent of the General Assembly."

Al» >nt three years after, when King Charles had occasion to
raise a permanent revenue for the support of Virginia, be did
not attempt to do it by means of a parliamentary donation ; but
framed a bill, and senl it there by Lord Culpepper, who was at
that time governor, to receive the concurrence of their legisla-
ture. It was then passed into a law, and a enacted by the King's
most excellent Majesty, by and with the consent of the General Assem-
bly of tlie enfany of Virginia." [f the Virginians had been sub-
jects of the realm, this could not bave been done, without a
direct violation ^<l' Magna Gharta; which provides, that no Eng-
lish subject shall be taxed without the consenl of Parliament.

Thus, sir, I bave taken a pretty general survey of the Amer-
ican charters, and proved, to the satisfaction of every unbiassed
person, that they are entirely discordanl with that sovereignty of
Parliament for which you are an advocate. The disingenuity of
your extracts (to give it no harsher name") merits th rest

censure ; and will, no doubt, Berve to discredit all your former, as
well as future, labors in your favorite cause ^\' despotism.

80 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

It is true, that New- York has no charter. But if it could
support its claim to liberty in no other way, it might, with
justice, plead the common principles of colonization : for it
would be unreasonable to exclude one colony from the enjoy-
ment of the most important privileges of the rest. There is no
need, however, of this plea. The Sacred Eights of Man-
kind ARE NOT TO BE RUMMAGED FOR AMONG OLD PARCHMENTS

or musty records. they are written, as with a sun-
beam, in the whole volume of human nature, by the
Hand of the Divinity itself ; and can never be erased
or obscured by mortal power.

The nations of Turkey, Eussia, France, Spain, and all other
despotic kingdoms in the world, have an inherent right, when-
ever they please, to shake off the yoke of servitude (though
sanctioned by the immemorial usage of their ancestors), and to
model their government upon the principles of civil liberty.

I will now venture to assert, that I have demonstrated, from
the voice of nature, the spirit of the British constitution, and the
charters of the colonies in general, the absolute non-existence of
that parliamentary supremacy for which you contend. I am not
apt to be dogmatical, or too confident of my own opinions ; but,
if I thought it possible for me to be mistaken, when I maintain,
that the Parliament of Great Britain has no sovereign authority
over America, I should distrust every principle of my under-
standing, reject every distinction between truth and falsehood,
and fall into a universal skepticism.

Hitherto, I have reasoned against the whole authority of
Parliament, without even excepting the right we have conceded,
of regulating trade. I considered it, in its original state, as
founded in the British constitution, the natural rights of society,
and the several charters of the colonies. The power of regu-
lating our trade, was first exercised in the reign of Charles the
Second. I shall not examine upon what principle. It is enough,
we have consented to it. But I shall proceed to consider the
argument you make use of, to establish the propriety of allow-
ing special duties to be imposed by way of tribute, for the pro-
tection of our commerce.

JEt. 18.] 'I'll E FARMER REPUTED. B1

You argue thus: " Notwithstanding the large landed i
possessed by the British subjects in the dhTerenl parte of the
world, they must 1"' considered as a commercial, manufacturing

1 pie, The welfare, perhaps thi nee, of Greal Britan

an independent or sovereign State, depends upon her main,
tures and trade ; and many people in America think, thai her
manufactures and commerce depend, in a greal measure, on her
intercourse with her colonies; insomuch, that if this Bho

. her commerce would decline and die away; her
wealth would cease; and her maritime power be at an end. If
these observations be just, they establish the right of the British
Parliament to regulate the commerce of the whole empire, be-
yond possibility of contradiction; a denial of it, would be a de-
nial of a right in the British empire to preserve itself They
prove also, that all parts of the empire must be subjed to the
British Parliament; for, otherwise, the trade of the whole can-
not be regulated. They point out, also, the besl mode of raising
such a revenue as is necessary for the support and defence of the
government, viz., by duties on'importe and exports: bees
these are attended with the least inconvenience to the subject,
and may be so managed as to raise a revenue and regulate the
trade a1 the same time.

" When it is considered that Greal Britain is a maritime
power; that the presenl flourishing state of her trade, and of the
trade of her colonies, depends, in a great measure, upon the pro-
tection which they receive from the navy; thai her own security
depends upon her navy ; and that it is, principally, a naval pro
tection we receive from her; there will appear a peculiar pro-
priety in laying the chief burthen of supporting her navy, u]
her commerce; and in requesting us to hear a part of the ex-
pense, proportional to our ability, and to that protection and
security which we receive from it."

The supposition, that a c »n of commerce between Gr

Britain and the colonies, would be ruinous and destructive to
the former, is ushered in, as the principal argument for her right
to regulate the commerce of the whole empire. I am willing
allow it its full weight; but 1 cannot conceive how you C i]

b 6

82 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 18.

tend, after making such use of it, to deny it the force it ought to
have, when it is urged as affording a moral certainty that our
present measures will be successful. If you tacitly adopt the
principle, and reason from it, in one case, with what propriety
can you reject it in the other ? If the preservation of the British
empire depends, in any material degree, upon the right of Par-
liament to regulate the trade of the colonies, what will be the
consequence if the trade ceases altogether? You must either
acknowledge, that you have adduced a very weak and foolish
argument, or that the commercial connection between Great
Britain and the colonies, is essential to her security and pros-
perity. You have either failed in proving your point, or you
have furnished me with an ample confutation of all your reason-
ing against the probability of success, from the restrictions laid
on our commerce. If our trade be necessary to the welfare of
Great Britain, she must, of course, be ruined by a discontinuance
of it.

But it is granted, that Great Britain has a right to regulate
the trade of the empire. The Congress have acknowledged it,
so far as concerned their constituents. You infer from thence,
that all parts of the empire must be subject to her. They need
only be so far subject, as is necessary for the end proposed, that
is, the regulation of their trade. If you require any further sub-
jection, you require means that are disproportionate to the end,
which is unreasonable, and not at all allowable.

With respect to the justice of submitting to impositions on
our trade, for the purpose of raising a revenue to support the
navy by which it is protected ; I answer, that the exclusive reg-
ulation of our commerce for her own advantage, is a sufficient
tribute to Great Britain for protecting it. By this means, a vast
accession of wealth is annually thrown into her coffers. It is a
matter of notoriety, that the balance of trade is very much against
us. After ransacking Spain, Portugal, Holland, the English,
French, Spanish, Dutch, and Danish plantations, for money and
Bills of Exchange, as remittances for the commodities we take
from Great Britain ; we are still always greatly in arrears to her.
At a moderate computation, I am well informed, that the profits

iET. 18.] Til E r.\ R M E ll REFUTED.

she derives Gram as every year, ■ . eed two millions and a half
sterling; and when we reflect, thai this sum will be continually
increasing, as we grow more and more populous, it musl be evi-
dent, thai there is uol the leasl justice in raising a revenue w
as, by the imposition of special duties.

The right of Greal Britain to regulate our trade upon this
plan, it is now acknowledged, is uol an inconsiderable matt r. [1
is as much as any free people can concede, and as much as any just
people would require. We are no1 permitted to procure manu-
factures any where else than from Greal Britain, or [reland.
Our trade is limited and prescribed, in every respect, as is i
fbi her interest This is a plentiful sourer of wealth to her,
have heretofore shown, and shall hereafter confirm by the testi-
mony of some British writers.

But I have found out an argument, which, 1 imagine, will go
very near convincing yourself of the absurdity of what you have
offered on this head. It is short, but conclusive. " The princi-
pal profits of our trade centre in Great Britain"* How can you,
my dour sir, after making this confession, entertain a single
thought, that it is incumbent upon us to suffer her to raise a rev-
enue upon our trade? Are uot the principal profits a sufficienl re-
compense for protecting it ? Surely you would not allow her the
whole. This would be rather too generous. However ardenl your
affection to her, and however much it may be your glory to ad-
vance her imperial dignity, you oughl to moderate it so far, .
permit us to enjoy some little benefit from our trade. ( mly a small
portion of the profits will satisfy as. We are willing to let her
have the principal share, and this you acknowl me already
has. But why will you advise us to let her exhausl the small
pittance we have reserved, as the reward of our own industry,
in hurthensome revenues? This might be liberality and gener-
osity, but it would not be prudence : and let me tell you. in this
selfish, rapacious world, a little discretion is, at worst, only a
venial sin. It will be expedient to be more cautious for
future. It is difficult to combat truth; and unless you redouble

* Sec Page 19 of your own letter.

84 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 18.

your vigilance, you will (as in the present instance) be extremely
apt to ensnare yourself.

I shall now briefly examine the excellent mode you have pro-
posed, for settling our disputes finally and effectually. All inter-
nal taxation is to be vested in our own legislatures; and the
right of regulating trade, by duties, bounties, &c, to be left to
the Parliament, together with the right of enacting all general
laws for all the colonies. You imagine that we should then
" have all the security for our rights, liberties, and properties,
which human policy can give us."

Here we widely differ in sentiment. My opinion is, that we
should have no " security besides the good will of our rulers ;
that is, no security at all." Is there no difference between one
system of laws and another ? Are not some more favorable and
beneficial to the subject ; better calculated to preserve his life
and personal liberty than others ? It is evident they are. Sup-
pose, instead of the present system established among us, the
French laws were to be introduced, for the good of all the colo-
nies : Should we have the same security for our lives which we
now have ? I presume we should not. I presume, also, that a
revolution in our laws might and would gradually take place.

A fondness for power is implanted in most men ; and it is
natural to abuse it, when acquired. This maxim, drawn from
the experience of all ages, makes it the height of folly to intrust
any set of men with power, which is not under every possible
control ; perpetual strides are made after more, as long as there
is any part withheld. We ought not, therefore, to concede any
greater authority to the British Parliament, than is absolutely
necessary. There seems to be a necessity for vesting the regula-
tion of our trade there, because, in time, our commercial interests
might otherwise interfere with hers. But with respect to mak-
ing laws for us, there is not the least necessity, or even propri-
ety in it. Our legislatures are confined to ourselves, and cannot
interfere with Great Britian. We are best acquainted with our
own circumstances, and therefore best qualified to make suitable
regulations. It is of no force to object, that no particular colony
has power to enact general laws for all the colonies. There is

Mr. 18.] Til i: i'.\ i: \i 1:1; REPUTED.

Hi* need of such general laws. I. | try colony attend to I
own internal police, and all will be well. Bow bave we man*

1 heretofore? The Parliamenl baa made no general laws for
our good : and ye1 onr affairs have beeD conducted much {■> our

■ and satisfaction. LP any discord has sprung up am.
it is wholly imputable to the incursions of Gtoeal Britain. We
should be peaceable and happy, if unmolested by her. We are
in>t so destitute of wisdom as to be in want of her assistance .
devise proper and salutary laws for as.

The legislative power of Parliament would a1 any rate be
less to us; and as utility is the prime end of all laws, thai power
has no reason foi which it should exist It is aot even requi
for preserving the connection between Great Britain and the co-
lonies, for that is sufficiently secured in two ways: by being
united under the same king, and by the importanl prrv
regulating our commerce, to which we have submitted.

That it might be prejudicial to us, uo reasonable man can
deny. We may trace the evils of it through the whole adminis-
tration of justice. Judicial proceedings may be so ordered ■■■■-
render our lives and properties dependent on the will and ca-
price of court favorites and tools. A wide field for bribery and
corruption of every kind would be opened, and themostenor-
mous exactions would take shelter under the garb of law. It is
unnecessary to enter into a particular detail of the different
methods in which all this might be effected ; every man's own
imagination will suggesl t<> him a multiplicity of instances.

Rigorous, oppressive, and tyrannical laws may be thought
expedient, as instruments to humble our rebellious tempers, ami
oblige us tn submit to further exertions of authority, till the claim

ind us in all cases whatsoever 1"- fully complied with. This.
do doubt, would be a work of time. The steps would be gradual,
ami perhaps imperceptible ; hut they would be sun- ami effectual.

That thirst of power which influen I the Parliament to

an unlimited authority over us. without tin' Least plausible foun-
dation for it ias I have clearly proved), will authorize us to ap-
prehend tin- worst.

The power of legislating for us, and of raising a revenue upon

86 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

the articles of commerce, would be a sufficient degree of slavery.
It is absurd to say, that Great Britain could not impose heavy
burthens on our commerce, without immediately feeling the
effect herself. She may enrich herself by reducing us to the
most lamentable state of penury and wretchedness. We are
already forbid to purchase the manufactures of any foreign coun-
tries. Great Britain and Ireland must furnish us with the ne-
cessaries we want. Those things Ave manufacture among our-
selves may be disallowed. We should then be compelled to take
the manufactures of Great Britain upon her own conditions.
We could not, in that case, do without them. However exces-
sive the duties laid upon them, we should be under an inevitable
necessity to purchase them. How would Great Britain feel the
effects of those impositions, but to her own advantage ? If we
might withdraw our custom, and apply to other nations ; if we
might manufacture our own materials, those expedients would
serve as a refuge to us, and would indeed be a security against
any immoderate exactions. But these resources would be cut
off. There would be no alternative left us. We must submit to
be drained of all our wealth, for those necessaries which we are
not permitted to get elsewhere. ■

As to our trade with foreign countries, the burthens imposed
on that, however grievous, would in like manner affect Great
Britain only by increasing her public treasure. Her own inha-
bitants would pay no part of them ; they would fall solely upon
ourselves. There is no immediate connection between her trade
and. ours, of this kind ; they are separate and independent ; and,
of course, the incumbrances on the one would not injure the
other. The superfluity of our products must be exported, to
enable us to pay our debts to her ; and we must submit to be
loaded at her discretion. If we look forward to a period not far
distant, we shall perceive that the productions of our country
will infinitely exceed the demands which Great Britain and her
connections can possibly have for them ; and, as we shall then be
greatly advanced in population, our wants will be proportiona-
bly increased. These circumstances will open an ample field for
extortion and oppression.

jEt. 18.] T 1 1 B P A R m E it R I : i ' i T i : 1 1 . M

The legislative authority of Parliament would atoi
ready to silence our murmurs by tyrannical edicts. These would
be enforced by a formidable army, kepi up among as for the
purpose. The slightest Btruggles to recover our losl lib
would become dangerous, and even capital. Those hated thu
Continental Conventions, by which there tnighl be a communion
of councils and measures, would be interdicted. Nbn-importa-
tic >n and non-exportation agreements would, in effect, 1"- made

Hems, illegal, and treasonable.* No remedy would be Left, bu1
in the clemency of our oppressors; a wretched one, indeed, and
such as no prudent man would confide inl [n whatever]
uv consider the matter, we shall find that we must effectually
seal our bondage by adopting the mod,' you recommend.

Agreeably to your own concessions, Great Britain is abun-
dantly recompensed for the naval protection she affords, by the
principal profits of our trade. It can, therefore, with no color of
justice, be urged upon us to permil her to raise a revenue through
that channel.

But, after all, let us suppose that the emolument which ai
from the simple and abstracted regulation of our trade, is inade-
quate to the protection we derive from the parent State: does it
follow, that her jusl demands cannot be satified, unless we put it
in her power to nun us? When did the colonies refuse to con-
tribute their proportion towards defraying the expenses of gov-
ernment? During the war. our contributions were so liberal
and generous, that we were thought to have ih>i\c more than our
part ; and restitution was accordingly made. Massachus

that injured, insulted, and calumniated country, was foremost in
displaying its Loyalty; and was parsimonious neither of its men
normoney. But, notwithstanding this, no confidence, it seems.
is due to our virtue or fidelity; but every thing is to be tm I
to the wisdom and disinterestedness of a British Parliament.

We do not expect, nor require, that all should depend upon
our integrity or generosity, but only a part ; and this, every rule
of equity entitles us to. We have assented to the exi

* I believe these were the epithets bestowed on them by Gen. Gage.

88 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 18.

power which gives a certainty to Great Britain of a vast annual
income : any further aids that may be necessary, ought to be
intrusted to our fidelity. When the circumstances of two parties
will not admit of precise boundaries to the duty of each, it is not
a dictate of justice to put one entirely into the power of the
other. If the mother country would desist from grasping at too
much, and permit us to enjoy the privileges of freemen, interest
would concur with duty, and lead us to the performance of it.
We should be sensible of the advantages of a mutual intercourse
and connection, and should esteem the welfare of Britain as the
best security for our own. She may, by kind treatment, secure
our attachment in the powerful bands of self-interest. This is
the conduct that prudence and sound policy point out : but,
alas ! to her own misfortune as well as ours, she is blind and
infatuated.

If we take futurity into the account, as we no doubt ought to
do, we shall find, that in fifty or sixty years, America will be in
no need of protection from Great Britain. She will then be
able to protect herself, both at home and abroad. She will have
a plenty of men, and a plenty of materials, to provide and equip
a formidable navy. She will, indeed, owe a debt of gratitude to
the parent State for past services ; but the scale will then begin
to turn in her favor : and the obligation for future services will
be on the side of Great Britain. It will be the interest of the
latter to keep us without a fleet, and, by this means, to continue
to regulate our trade as before. But, in thus withholding the
means of protection which we have within our own reach, she
will chiefly consult her own advantage, and oblige herself much
more than us. At that era, to enjoy the privilege of enriching
herself by the direction of our commerce, and, at the same time,
to derive supports, from our youthful vigor and strength, against
all her enemies, and thereby to extend her conquests over them,
will give her reason to bless the times that gave birth to these
colonies.

By enlarging our views, and turning our thoughts to future
days, we must perceive, that the special benefits we receive from
the British nation, are of a temporary and transient nature:

jEt. 18.]

THE PARMER aEPUTED. 89

while, "ii the other hand, those it may reap from as, by an affec-
tionate and parental conduct, will I"- permanenl and dural
and will Berve to give it such :i degree of stability and lasting
jperity, as could no1 be expected in the common fluctuating
course of human affairs. Such reflections will teach as, that
there is no propriety in making any concessions to ' foeal Britain,

which may be at all inc. insistent with our safety.

You employ several contemptible artifices to Tarnish and
commend your scheme. Your conduct, in every respect, affi
astriking instance of the depravity of human nature. 5Tou in-
sinuate, that the Pennsylvania Farmer admits the righl of Par-
liament to regulate our trade in the same sen.-- you do. The
very Inter your extracts are taken from, is expressly levelled
against the revenue act, with regard to paper, glass, ,V'-. The
design <>!' that, ami all his subsequenl papers, is t<> prove, that
all duties, imposed upon the articles of commerce, for the |

• of raising a revenue, are to be considered in the same light

as what you call internal taxes, and ought equally to he opposed.

By the "legal authority to regulate trade," la- means nothing

more, than what the Congress have allowed: an authority to

fine us to the use of our own manufactures ; to prescribe our

le with foreign nations, and the like. This is the power he

aks of as being "lodged in the British Parliament." 1 as

to general duties, he means such as the people of Great Britain

are to payas'well as ourselves. Duties, for the purpose of a

revenue raised upon us only, he calls special duties: and Bays,

"they arc as much a tax upon as as those imposed by the .-tamp

act."

The following passage will show the sentiments of this i
nious and worthy gentleman ; and, at the same time, will serve
to illustrate what I have heretofore said.

•• If you once admit," says he, "that Great Britain may lay
duties upon her exportations to us, for theph
on us only, she will then have nothing to do, but to lay di
on the articles which she prohibits OS to manufacture, and the
traevdv iil'.lw/w/j liberty is finished. We have been pro-
hibited from procuring manufactures in all c i ay where but

90 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 18.

from Great Britain (excepting linens, which we are permitted to
import directly from Ireland). We have been prohibited in
some cases from manufacturing for ourselves, and may be pro-
hibited in others. We are, therefore, exactly in the situation of
a city besieged, which is surrounded by the besiegers in every
part but one. If that is closed up, no step can be taken, but to
surrender at discretion. If Great Britain can order us to come to
her for the necessaries we want ; and can order us to pay what
taxes she pleases before we take them away, or when we land
them here ; we are as abject slaves as France and Poland can
show, in wooden shoes, and with uncombed hair.*

" Perhaps the nature of the necessities of dependent States,
caused by the policy of a governing one for her own benefit,
may be elucidated by a fact mentioned in history. When the
Carthaginians were possessed of the island of Sardinia, they
made a decree, that the Sardinians should not raise corn, nor get
it any other way than from the Carthaginians. Then, by impos-
ing any duties they would upon it, they drained from the miser-
able Sardinians any sums they pleased ; and, whenever that mis-
erable and oppressed people made the least movement to assert
their liberty, their tyrants starved them to death or submission.
This may be called the most perfect kind of political necessity."

You would persuade us, also, that Mr. Pitt's sentiments
accord with yours, about the regulation of trade ; but this is as
false as the other. When he tells them " to exercise every
power but that of taking money out of our pockets," he does
not mean that they shall barely refrain from a manual operation
upon our pockets ; but that they shall exact money from us in
no way whatsoever. To tax the commodities Great Britain
obliges us to take from her only, is as much taking money out
of our pockets as to tax our estates ; and must be equally ex-
cluded by Mr. Pitt's prohibition.

You all along argue upon a suppositious denial of the right
of Parliament to regulate our trade. You tell us, "It will

* The peasants of France wear wooden shoes ; and the vassals of Poland are
remarkable for matted hair which never can be combed.

Mr. 18.] T u E i'.\ i: M i: R R i: PUT i: i>. 91

never give up the right of regulating the trade of the colonit :"
and, in another place, " If we succeed in depriving G I I' tain
of the power of regulating our trade, the colonies will probably

be b i a1 variance with each other. Their i mercial inter

will interfere;* there will be no supreme power to interp
and discord and animosity must ensue."

I leave others to determine, whether you are mosl defective
in memory or honesty : bu1 in order to show that you are Btart-
ing difficulties where there are really none, I will transcribe, for
your perusal, pari of the fourth resolve of the Congress. After
asserting the right of the several provincial legislatures to an
exclusive power of legislation "in all cases of taxation and in-
ternal policy," they conclude thus : "But from the necessity of
the case, and a regard to the mutual interests of both countries,
we cheerfully consent to the operation of such acts of the British
Parliament, as are bona fide restrained to the regulation of our ex-
ternal commerce, for the purpose of securing the commercial ad-
vantages of the whole empire to the mother country, ami the
commercial benefits of its respective members; excluding every
idea of taxation, internal or external, for raising a revenue on
the subjects in America without their consent."

It seems to me not impossible, that our trade may be so re-
gulated, as to prevent the discord and animosity, at the pros]
of which you are so terrified, without the least assistance from
a ■( '■' nue.

Tims have I not only disproved the existence of that parlia-
mentary authority of which you are so zealous an abettor; but
also shown, that the mode you have proposed for the accommo-
dation of our disputes, would be destructive to American free-
dom. -Mv next business is, to vindicate the Congress by a few

natural inferences; and such reflections on the state of our com-
mercial connection with the mother country, as are necessary to
show the insignificancy of your objections to my former argu-
ments on this head.

* I do doI sec any reason to believe this would be the case ; but as it li of no
importance to controvert it. I .shall pass it over.

92 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 18.

Since it has been proved, that the British Parliament has no
right, either to the legislation or taxation of America ; and since
neither could be ceded without betraying our liberties ; the Con-
gress would have acted inconsistent with their duty to their
country had they done it. Their conduct, therefore, so far from
being reprehensible, was perfectly justifiable and laudable.

The regulation of our trade, in the sense it is now admitted,
is the only power we can, with justice to ourselves, permit the
British Parliament to exercise : and it is a privilege of so im-
portant a nature, so beneficial and lucrative to Great Britain,
that she ought, in equity, to be contented with it, and not
attempt to grasp at any thing more. The Congress, therefore,
have made the only concession, which the welfare and pros-
perity of America would warrant, or which Great Britain, in.
reason, could expect.

All your clamors, therefore, against them for not having
drawn some proper line, are groundless and ridiculous. They
have drawn the only line which American freedom will autho-
rize, or which the relation between the parent State and the
colonies requires.

It is a necessary consequence, and not an assumed point, that
the claim of Parliament to bind us by statutes in all cases whatso-
ever, is unconstitutional, unj ust, and tyrannical ; and the repeated
attempts to carry it into execution, evince a fixed, inveterate
design to exterminate the liberties of America.

Mr. Grenville, during his administration, was the projector of
this scheme. His conduct, as a minister, has been severely
arraigned by his successors in office, and by the nation in gen-
eral : but, notwithstanding this, a measure which disgraces his
character more than any thing else has been steadily pursued
ever since.

The Stamp Act was the commencement of our misfortunes ;
which, in consequence of the spirited opposition made by us, was
repealed. The Eevenue Act, imposing duties on paper, glass,
&c, came next, and was also partly repealed on the same ac-
count. A part, however, was left to be the instrument of some
future attack. The present minister, in conjunction with a mer-

Ma. 18.] THE F A H M E R B E I' I T B D .

cenary tribe of merchants, attempted to effect, by stratagem,
whal could not be done by an open, undisguised manner of pro-
ceeding. Bis emissaries, every where, were se1 to work. T
endeavored, by every possible device, to allure as into the snare.
The Act, passed for the purpose, was misrepresented; and
were assured, with all the parade of pretended patriotism, that

liberties were in do danger. The advantage w< uld
receive from the probable cheapness of English tea, was pla
off with every exaggeration offalseh I: and specious declama-
tions on the criminality of illicit trade, served as a gilding for
the whole. Thus, truth and its opposite were blended. The
men, who could makejusl reflections on the Bar f an oath,

were vet base enough to strike at the vitals of t! - lit- which

ought to be held sacred by every rational being.

It so happened, that the firsl tea ship arrived at Boston.

The Assembly of thai province, justly alarmed at the< sequen-

. made repeated applications to the consignees for the East
India Company, requesting them to send back the tea. They
as often refused to comply. The ship was detained till the time
was elapsed; after which the tea must have been landed, and
the duties paid, or it would have been seized by tl i rtom
II. - . To prevenl this, a partof the citizens of Boston assem-
bled, proceeded to the ship, and threw the tea into the river.*

The scheme of the ministry was disappointed on all hands.
The tea was returned from all the colonies I South Caro-

lina. It was landed there; but such precautions were takei
equally served to baffle their attempt.

This abortion of their favorite plan, inflamed the ministerial
ire. They breathed nothing bul vengeance against America.
Menaces ofpunishmenl resounded through both Bouses of Parlia-
ment. The Commons of Greal Britain spoke more in the super-
cilious tone of masters, than in the becoming language of fellow-
To all the judicious reasonings of a Burke, or Barre,
no other answer was returned, than the idle tale oi and

* I shall examine the justice and policy of this procedure in some future
publication.

94 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 18.

severity. Much, was said on their past forbearance, and of their
future resentment. This was the burthen of the song. The
Quixotte minister, too, promised to bring America to his feet.
Humiliating idea, and such as ought to be spurned by every
free-born American !

Boston was the first victim to the meditated vengeance. An
Act was passed to block up her ports and destroy her commerce,
with every aggravating circumstance that can be imagined. It
was not left at her option to elude the stroke by paying for the
tea ; but she was also to make such satisfaction to the officers of
his Majesty's revenue, and others who might have suffered, as
should be judged reasonable by the governor.

Nor is this all. Before her commerce could be restored, she
must have submitted to the authority claimed and exercised by
the Parliament.*

Had the rest of America passively looked on, while a sister

* This must bo evident to every person who has read the Act. The prefatory
part of it, is in these words : " Whereas, dangerous commotions and insurrections
have been fomented and raised in the town of Boston, &c. ; in which commotions
and insurrections, certain valuable cargoes of tea, &c, were seized and destroyed:
And whereas, in the present condition of the said town and harbor, the commerce
of his Majesty's subjects cannot be safely carried on there, nor the customs payable
to his Majesty, duly collected, &c."

The commotions specified, are those in which the tea was destroyed : The com-
merce obstructed, was that of the East India Company: And the customs which
could not be collected, were those on the tea. These are the evils the Act is intend-
ed to punish and remove: and accordingly it provides, that "whenever it shall
appear to his Majesty, in his privy council, that peace and obedience to the laws
(i. e. the laws of Parliament) shall be so far restored in the said town of Boston,
that the trade of Great Britain may safely be carried on there, and his Majesty's
customs duly collected;" then, his Majesty may, at his discretion, so far open the
port, as to him seems necessary. So that until the Bostonians shall submit to let
the trade of Great Britain be carried on upon her own terms, and suffer his Ma-
jesty's customs (the duty upon tea, or any other Parliament may impose) to
be duly collected, they must remain in their present distressed situation : that
is, unless they resign their freedom, and put on the ignominious yoke tendered
them by Parliament, they are never to recover their lost trade. Hence it appears,
how weak, ungenerous, and contemptible, that objection is, which supposes the
Bostonians might have avoided their present calamities by paying for the tea.
The truth is, they had no alternative but submission to all the unjust claims of Par-
liament.

Mr. 18.] 'I'll B FA R M ER ttEPI T E D.

colonv was subjugated, the same fate would graduallj bave
overtaken all. r I " 1 1 « - safety of the whole depends apon the mu-
tual protection of every part, [f the sword of oppression be
permitted to lop off one limb without opposition; reiterated
strokes will soon dismember the whole body. Hence, it was the
duty and interest of all the colonies to succor and support the
one which was Buffering. It is sometimes sagaciously
that we ought to commiserate the dista of the] pie of Mas-

sachusetts, but not intermeddle in their affairs, bo far as perhaps
to brine ourselves into like circumstances with them. This
might be good reasoning, if our neutrality would no1 I"- more
dangerous than our participation : but I am unable to c mceive,
how the colonies in general would have any security againsl op-
pression, if they were once to content themselves with barely
pitying each other, while Parliament was prosecuting and enforc-
ing its demands. [Jnless they continually protect and ach
other, they must all inevitably tall a prey to their enemi

Extraordinary emergencies require extraordinary expedients.
The best mode of opposition was that in which there might
be a union of councils. This was necessary to ascertain the
boundaries of our rights, and to give weight and dignity to our
measures, both in Great Britain and America. A Congress was
accordingly proposed, and universally agreed to.

You, -ir, triumph in the supposed illegality of this body : hut
granting your supposition were true, it would he a matter of no
real importance. When the first principles of civil society arc
violated, and the rights of a whole people are invaded, the com-
mon forms of municipal law are not to be regarded. Men may
then hetake themselves to the lawofnature; ami, il they hut
conform their actions to that standard, all cavils against them
betray either ignorance or dishonesty. There are some events

in society, to which human laws cannot extend; hut, when

applied to them, lose all their force and efficacy. In Bhort, when

human laws contradict, or discountenance, the means which
necessary to preserve the essential rights of any society, I
defeat the proper end '<l' all laws, and so become null and \
But you have barely asserted, not proved, this ill If

96 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 18.

by the term, you mean a contrariety to law, I desire yon to pro-
duce the law against it. I maintain there is none in being. If
you mean that there is no law, the intention of which may
authorize such a convention, I deny this also. It has been
always a principle of the law, that subjects have a right to state
their grievances, and petition the king for redress. This is ex-
plicitly acknowledged by the Act of the first of William and
Mary : and " all prosecutions and commitments for such petition-
ing," are declared to be illegal. So far, then, the Congress was
a body founded in law ; for if subjects have such a right, they
may undoubtedly elect and depute persons from among them-
selves to act for them.*

As to the particular agreements entered into, with respect to
our commerce, the law makes no provision for or against them :
they are perfectly indifferent in a legal sense. We may, or may
not, trade, as is most suitable to our own circumstances.

The deputies chosen in the several provinces, met at Phi-
ladelphia according to appointment, and framed a set of re-
solves, declarative of the rights of America : all which I have by
general arguments proved, are consonant to reason and nature ;
to the spirit of the British Constitution ; and to the intention of
our charters. They made the only concession (as I have also
shown) that their duty to themselves and their country would
justify, or that the connection between Great Britain and the
colonies demanded.

They solicited the King for a redress of grievances : but,
justly concluding, from past experience; from the behavior
and declarations of the majority in both Houses of Parliament ;
and from the known character and avowed designs of the min-
ister; that little or no dependence was to be placed upon bare
entreaties ; they thought it necessary to second them by restric-
tions on trade.

In my former defence of the measures of the Congress, I

* All lawyers agree, that the spirit and reason of a law, is one of the principal
rules of interpretation; if so, it cannot be doubted, that when a people are ag-
grieved, and their circumstances will not allow them unitedly to petition in their
own persons, they may appoint representatives to do it for them.

.F/r. 18.] 'I'll i: PA R M i: R REPUTED. 97

proved, in a manner you aever will be able to invalidate, thai
petitions and remonstrances would certainly be unavailing. J
will now examine your frivolous and prevaricating reply.

You answer thus: "In the commotions occasioned by the
Stamp Act, wc recurred to petitions and remon I ; our

grievances were pointed out, and redress solicited with temper
and decency. They were heard; they were attended to; and
the disagreeable Act repealed. The same mode of application
succeeded, with regard to the duties laid upon glass, painters'
colors, &c. You say, indeed, thai our addresses on this occasion
were treated with contempl and neglected. But, I beseech you,
were no1 our addresses receh ed, read, and debated upon '.' And
was no1 the repeal of those Acts the consequence? Thefactyou
know is as T state if. Lf these Acts were cot only disagreeabli
the Americans, but were also found to militate against the com-
mercial bate rests of Great Britain, it proves what 1 asserted
above; that duties which injure our trade, will soon be ielt in
England; and then there will be no difficulty in getting them
repealed."

I entirely deny the Pad to be as you state it; and you are
it is not. Our addresses were no1 heard, attended to,
and the disagreeable Acl repealed in consequence of them. If
this had been the case, why was no notice taken of them in
the repealing Act? Why were nol our complaints assigned as
the inducement to it ? On the contrary, these are the expi
words of the first repeal, to which the secoad is also similar:
■■ Whereas the continuance of the said Act would be attended
with many inconveniences, and may be products msequenoes

greatly detrimental to the commercial interests of Oreai Britain:
May it therefore please your mosl excellent Majesty, by and
with the advice and consent, &c., that from and after thenrsl
day of May, L766, the above mentioned Act, and the several
matters and things therein contained, shall be, and is, and are,
hereby repealed and made void, to all intents and purp
whatsoever."

The inconveniences and the ill consequences to Greal Britain
arc the only reasons given for the revocation of the Act. B

B 7

98 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

then can you pretend to say it was in compliance with our peti-
tions ? You must think the complaisance of your readers very
great to imagine they will credit your assertions at the expense
of their own understandings.

Neither is the use you make of the assigned reasons at all
just. The consequences, so detrimental to the commercial inter-
ests of Great Britain, are not such as would have resulted from
the natural operation of the Act, had it been submitted to ; but
from the opposition made by us, and the cessation of imports
which had taken place.

A non-importation (to which you have so violent an aversion)
was the only thing that procured us redress on preceding occa-
sions. We did not formerly, any more than now, confine our-
selves to petitions only, but took care to adopt a more prevailing
method ; to wit, — a suspension of trade.

But what proves to a demonstration that our former petitions
were unsuccessful, is, that the grand object they aimed at was
never obtained. This was, an exemption from Parliamentary
taxation. Our addresses turned entirely upon this point. And
so far were they from succeeding, that immediately upon the re-
peal of the Stamp Act, a subsequent Act was passed, declaring
the right of Parliament to bind us by statutes in all cases what-
soever. This declaration of the unlimited, universal authority of
Parliament, was a direct denial of the leading claim held up in
our petition, and of course a rejection of the petition itself.

The same observations are applicable to the Eevenue Act,
which, had our addresses been successful, would have been
wholly, not partially, revoked ; and we should not, at this time,
have had any occasion to renew our complaints, but should have
been in a state of security and tranquillity.

In my former reflections on this head, I urged many consider-
ations to show, that there is less reason now than ever to expect
deliverance by means of remonstrance and entreaty. And, in-
deed, if we consider the vindictive spirit diffused through the
words and actions of our oppressors, we must be convinced of
this. It impeaches the understandings of the ministry and the
Parliament in the grossest manner, to suppose they have re-

iE-r. 18.] T n i: PA H m 1: B if i: r r T ED. 99

newed their attempts, and taken such violent methods to carry
them Into execution, merely to have the pleasure of undoing the
whole, in condescension to our prayers and complaints. The
taxation of America is an objecl too near at hearl to be re-
signed unless from necessity; and, if they would qoI have aban-
doned tin- principle, there could be no reason to expecl they
would have desisted from the exercise of it in the present in-
stance. For the duty upon tea is in itself very trifling ; and,
since that is opposed, they could nol hope to vary the mode in
any way that would be less offensive and Less obnoxious to op-
position.

In answer to the instance I produced from the unsuccessful
application of the Boston Assembly, you tell me, that "the
Governor against whom the complaint was made, was called to
a public trial before the only court where the cause was cogniza-
ble, the King in Council; but the Boston Assembly could not
support their charge, and the Governor was acquitted." The
truth is, their charge was extremely well supported in the eye of
strict justice; but it was destitute of the mere formalities of law,
and on this score it was rejected. They accused him of treachery
and falsehood, and produced his own letters against him. It
was not admitted as a legal charge, or crimen ; nor the party's
letters as an evidence, or testis; and. by these evasions, the cri-
minal escaped the punishment he deserved; and, instead of it,
been advanced to higher honors, while the complainants
were unrelieved and insulted. I remember when the particulars
of this transaction were first published, there was one circum-
stance mentioned: thai the petition in question was pronounced
at St. James's to be "a seditious, vejuiimis, and sr,i,,il<il,,u< /,'/„/."

You tell me, "There is also this reason why we should, at
least, have tried the mode of petition and remonstrance, to ob-
tain a removal of the grievances we complain of: The friends of
America in England have strongly recommended it as the i
decent and probable means of succeeding." I wish you had
been so kind as to have particularized those friends you speak o£
[ am inclined to believe you would have found some difficulty in
this. There have been some publications in the newspap

100 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 18.

said to be extracts of letters from England ; but who were the
authors of them ? How do you know they were not written in
America ? or, if they came from England, that the writers of
them were really sincere friends ? I have heard one or two per-
sons named as the authors of some of these letters ; but they
were those whose sincerity we have the greatest reason to distrust.
The general tenor of advice, from those with whose integrity we
are best acquainted, has been, to place no dependence on the jus-
tice or clemency of Great Britain ; but to work out our deliver-
ance by a spirited and self-denying opposition. Eestrictions on
our trade have been expressly pointed out and recommended as
the only probable source of redress.

You say, " If the information from England be true, we have
by our haughty demands detached most of our friends there from
our interest, and forced them to take part against us." Pray,
sir, where did you get this information ? Is there any inhabit-
ant of the invisible world that brings intelligence to you in a
supernatural way ? There have been no arrivals from England
preceding the time you wrote your letter, that have brought any
account of the proceedings of the Congress being received there, or
of the consequences resulting from them. Your information must
have either come to you in a miraculous manner, or it must be a
fiction of your own imagination.

But there are other powerful reasons against trusting to peti-
tions only, in our present circumstances. The town of Boston
is in a very critical situation. Men, under sufferings, are ex-
tremely apt, either to plunge into desperation, or to grow dis-
heartened and dejected. If the colonies, in general, appear re-
miss, or unwilling to adopt vigorous measures, in order to pro-
cure the most speedy relief, the people of Massachusetts might
perhaps have been hurried on to a rash and fatal conduct, or
they might have become languid and lifeless. Delays are ex-
tremely dangerous in affairs of such vast consequence.

The dispute might have been spun out by ministerial artifice,
till the generality of the people became careless and negligent,
and, of course, fitter to be imposed upon, and less forward to
assert their rights with firmness and spirit. The hand of bri-

Err. 18.] T II E I' \ i: M E U B EFUTED 1<»1

BERV MIGHT HAVE BEEN STRETCHED ACROSS THE ATLANTIC, and

the number of domestic vipers increased among as. Tin* min-
istry and their agents here, are active and subtile: nothing would
have been neglected, thai migh.1 have a tendency t'> di the

ignorant and unwary, or to attracl the dishonest and avaricii

How greal an influence, places, pensions, and h rs, have qj

the minds of men, we may easily discover, by contrasting
former with the presenl conduct of some among ourselves. Many
who, at the time of the Stamp Act, were loudest in the caus
liberty, and the most ardenl promoters of the spirited proceed-
ings on thai occasion, have qow, from patriots of the first magni-
tude, dwindled into moderate men, friends to ordeT and good -
eminent, dutiful and zealous servants to the ministry.

Il.nl our petitions failed, we should have found our diffi-
culties multiplied much more than we can imagine: and since
there was the highesl probability of a failure, it would h
been madness to have hazarded so much upon so unproniisinj
footing.

It betrays an ignorance of human nature, to suppose, that a
design formed and ripened for several year- againsl the liberl

of any \ pie, mighl be frustrated by the men- force of entreaty.

Men must cease to 1"- as fond of power as they are, before this
can !"• the case.

I therefore infer, that it' the Congress had qo1 rted

other, more efficacious measures, they would have trifled away
the liberties of their country, and merited censure instead of
approbation. Commercial regulations were the only peaceable

means, from which we could have the least hope of succ

These they have entered into ; and these, I maintain, mus
I, if they are qo1 treacherously or pusillanimously infringed.
You tell me, "1 overrate the importance of thee oies

to the British empire;" and proceed to make such assertions,
musl convince every intelligent person, that yon are either a
mortal foe to truth, or totally ignorant <>l' the matter you under-
take. The following extracts will show whether my rep:
tions have keen just or not

"Our plantations spend mostly our English manufs

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 18.

and those of all sorts almost imaginable, in prodigious quantities ;
and employ near two-thirds of all our English shipping ; so that
we have more people in England, by reason of our plantations in
America*

" We may safely advance, that our trade and navigation are
greatly increased by our colonies ; and that they really are a
source of treasure and naval power to this kingdom, since they
work for us, and their treasure centres here. Before their settle-
ment, our manufactures were few, and those but indifferent; the
number of English merchants very small ; and the whole shipping
of the nation, much inferior to what now belongs to the northern
colonies only. These are certain facts. But since their establish-
ment, our condition has altered for the better, almost to a degree
beyond credibility. Our manufactures are prodigiously increased ;
chiefly by the demand for them in the plantations, where they at
least take off one-half and supply us with many valuable com-
modities for exportation; which is as great emolument to the
mother kingdom as to the plantations themselves."f

The same author says, in another place, "Before the settle-
ment of these colonies, our manufactures were few, and those but
indifferent. In those days, we had, not only our naval stores, but
our ships, from our neighbors."

" I shall sum up my whole remarks," says another writer,
" on our American colonies, with this observation : that, as they
are a certain annual revenue of several millions sterling to their
mother country, they ought carefully to be protected, duly en-
couraged, and every opportunity that presents, improved for
their increment and advantage ; as every one they can possibly
reap, must at last return to us with interest11^

These quotations clearly prove, that the colonies are of the
last importance to Great Britain. They not only take off vast
quantities of her manufactures, but furnish her with materials to
extend her trade with foreign nations. They also supply her
with naval stores, and, in a great measure, with a navy itself.
The present flourishing state of her commerce, is chiefly to be

* Postlethwait. | Ibid. % Lex mercatoria.

Mt. is.] THE PARMER REFUTED. L08

attributed to the colonies who work far fur, and whose b
centres in her. 1 1 < > w unjust, therefore, is it in her, qo1 to l
Bed with the advantages she has hitherto received from as, but
to aim al depriving us of our freedom and happim ' Ami
what ruinous consequences must flow from a cessation of "ur
trade, on which her manufactures so much depend ! Wha1 pro-
digious numbers must be thrown oul of employ and reduced

■;irv and misery !

"Butshe is a -rent nation; hasvasl resources; may easily
supply the want of our trade, by making very small concessions
to Portugal, Russia, Turkey, &c. Should our non-importation
distress her manufactures, every man may employ himself to la-
boron a farm; and the price of grain would be much advanced
in Prance, Spain, and the Mediterranean. Notwithstanding the
present high cultivation of the lands in Kngland, that kingdom
is capable of being improved, by agriculture and commerce, so
as to maintain double the number of people that it docs ;it pro-
sent. The improvements in Scotland within the lasl thirty years

arc amazing. The enterprising spirit of tin? ] pie has opened

an easy intercourse between ;ill parts of the country, and they
have been enriched by commerce to ;i surprising degree."

I can hardly prevail upon myself to give a serious answer to
such ridiculous rant ; hut it may !»■ requisite, for the sake of the
uninformed, and of course it would be improper to decline it.

The national debt is now about one hundred and forty mil-
lions sterling — ;i debt unparalleled in the annals of any country
beside-. The surplus of the annual revenues, after paying the

interest of this debt, and the usual expense.- of the nation, is,
upon an average, about one million and a quarter sterling:* so
that, with ad their pre-ent resources, they would not be able to
discharge the public debt in less than one hundred and tw

years, should the pei continue ad that time. It is wed known

that mosl of the necessaries of life are, at pre-ent, heavily taxed
in (ireat Britain and Ireland. The common people are extremely

*Seea calculation made bj Blackstone. He Baya the jrear'66 two milliooa
were paid, and three millions in the succeedin i '•.. five millions in (bur

yiar-.

104 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

impoverished, and find it very difficult to procure a subsistence.
They are totally unable to bear any new impositions ; and of
course there can be no new internal sources opened. These are
stubborn facts, and notorious to every person that has the least
acquaintance with the situation of the two kingdoms. Had
there been the vast resources you speak of, why have they not
been improved to exonerate the people, and discharge the enor-
mous debt of the nation ? The guardians of the State have been
a supine, negligent, and stupid pack indeed, to have overlooked,
in the manner they have done, those numerous expedients they
might have fallen upon for the relief of the public. It cannot be
expected, but that a war will take place in the course of a few
years, if not immediately ; and then, through the negligence of
her rulers, Great Britain, already tottering under her burthens,
will be obliged to increase them till they become altogether in-
supportable, and she must sink under the weight of them. These
considerations render it very evident, that the mighty resources
you set forth, in such pompous terms, have nothing but an ima-
ginary existence, or they would not have been left so uncultiva-
ted in such necessitous and pressing circumstances.

You think you have nothing to do, but to mention the names
of a few countries, Portugal, Eussia, Turkey, &c, and you have
found out an easy remedy for the inconveniences flowing from
the loss of our trade. Yet, in truth, Great Britain carries on as
extensive a commerce with those countries, and all others, as
their circumstances will permit. Her trade is upon the decline
with many of them. France has, in a great measure, supplanted
her in Spain, Portugal, and Turkey ; and is continually gaining
ground. Eussia is increasing her own manufactures fast ; and
the demand for those of Great Britain must decrease in pro-
portion.

"Most of the nations of Europe have interfered with her,
more or less, in divers of her staple manufactures, within half a
century ; not only in her woollen, but in her lead and tin manu-
factures, as well as her fisheries."*

* Postlethwait.

jet. 18.] THE PARMEB REFUTED. l(l">

A certain writer in England, who has written on the present
situation of affairs with great temper, deliberation, and appai
integrity, has these observations: "The condition of the great
staple manufactures of our country is well known; those of the
linen and the silk are in the greatesl distress; and the woollen
and the linen are now publicly bandied, and contending against
one another. One pari of our people is starving al home on tin-
alms of their parishes; and another running abroad to this very
country that we are contending with. The produce of North
America, thai used to be sent yearly to Greal Britain, is reck-
oned .-it aboul four millions sterling; the manufactures of Great

Britain, and other commodities retur I from hence, a1 nearly

the same sum; the debts due from America to the British mer-
chants here, at aboul six millions, or a year and a half of that
commerce. Supposing, therefore, the Americans to acl in this

■ as they did in the time of the Stum]) Ad ; we shall then
have yearly, until the final settlemenl of this affair, manufacti
to the value of four millions sterling, left and heaped on the
hands of our merchants and master manufacturers; or we shall
have workmen and poor people put out <>f employ ami turned
adrifl in thai proportion. There will likewise be drawn from our
home consumption, and out of our general trade and traffic,
North American commodities to the same value ; and debts,

Immense sum above-mentioned, will 1"' withheld from private
people here. What etVeets these things will produce, considering
the present state of our trade, manufactures, and manufacturers,
the condition of our poor at home, and the numbers of people
running abroad, it don't want many words to explain and
forth. They were before severely felt for the time thai they lasted;
and it is apprehended, tliat the present situation of the public is
yet more liable to the impression. These are some of the diffi:
culties and distresses which we arc for a trial of skill, going to
bring on ourselves; and which will be perpetually magnifying
and increasing as long as the unnatural contest shall continue.

From these facts and authorities it appears unqu ble,

that the trade of Great Britain, instead of being capable of im-
provement among foreign countries, is rather declining: and

106 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

instead of her being able to bear the loss of our commerce, she
stands in need of more colonies to consume her manufactures.

It is idle to talk of employing those who might be thrown
out of business upon farms. All the lands in England, of any
value, have been long ago disj^osed of, and are already cultivated
as high as possible. The laborious farmers find it an exceeding
difficult task to pay their yearly taxes, and supply their families
with the bare necessaries of life : and it would be impracticable
to give employment in agriculture to any more than are already
engaged. We can have no doubt of this, if we consider the
small extent of territory of Great Britain, the antiquity of its
settlement, and the vast number of people it contains. It is
rather overstocked with inhabitants : and were it not for its ex-
tensive commerce, it could not maintain near the number it does
at present. This is acknowledged on all hands. None but
yourself would hazard the absurdity of a denial. The emigra-
tions from Great Britain, particularly from the north part of it,
as well as the most authentic accounts, prove the contrary of
your representations. Men are generally too much attached to
their native country to leave it, and dissolve all their connec-
tions, unless they are driven to it by necessity. The swarms
that every year come over to America, will never suffer any
reasonable man to believe, upon the strength of your word, that
the people in Scotland, or Ireland, are even in tolerable circum-
stances.

I cannot forbear wondering, when you talk of the price of
grain being advanced in France, Spain, and the Mediterranean,
and insinuate that Great Britain may be able to supply them.
It will be well if she can raise grain enough for herself, so as
not to feel the want of those considerable quantities she fre-
quently gets from us. I am apt to think she will experience
some inconveniences on this account.

With respect to Ireland, you think yourself under no obliga-
tion to point out where she may find purchasers for her linens
so numerous and wealthy as we are : but unless you could do
this, you must leave that country in very deplorable circum-
stances. It is not true, that she may do just as well with her

jEt. 18.]

T ii k FA k m i: i; i; r. r r t i: I). M

linens apon hex hands, as we can with onr flax Beed upon ours.
Linen is a staple manufacture of hers, and tin- sole means of sub-
sistence to a large part of her inhabitants Flax seed, as an
article of commerce, is comparatively of little importance to us :
hut we shall stand in need oi all the flax we can raise, t" manu-
facture linens r.>r ourselves; and therefore shall not lose our
seed by ceasing to exporl it. 1 shall say more of this here-
after.

Nor is it by any means a just inference, that because [re-
land formerly subsisted without a linen manufactory, she would
not, therefore, severely feel any present obstruction to the sale
of the article in question. Eer burthens are now much more
grievous than they formerly were; ami of course her resources
oughl to be proportionally greater, ot she must sink under the
pressure of them. The linen manufactory is, at this time, one
of her most valuable resources, ami could nut he materially in-
jured, or impeded, without producing the most melancholy
effects. The distressed condition of Ireland will not admit of
any diminution of her moms, hut pressingly demands an en-
largement of them.

It is of little momenl to contest the possibility that that
country mighl procure a sufficiency of flax elsewhere than from

us. till it .-an he shown where she may find a mart for her linens

equal to the American: ami this you are not willing even to
■nipt. Vet 1 have credible information that she could not
obtain from Eollandmuch more than usual (for the reasons]
before assigned) ; ami that .-he has always had as much from
the Baltic as she could conveniently get. With regard to
1 tada, any considerable supply from thence would he a work
of time, and no relief to her immediate exigencies.

I observed, in my former pamphlet, that "the Dutch may
withhold their usual supplies: They may choose to improve the
occasion for the advancement of their own trade: They may

take advantage of the scarcity of materials in Ireland, to incr
and put oil' their own manufactui Yon answer it by saj '

•■You never yel knew a Hollander who would withhold any

thing that would fetch him a good price." The force of my ob-

108 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 18.

servation turns upon its being his interest to do it. You should
have shown, that it would be more profitable to him to sell it to
the Irish than to retain it for the purposes mentioned ; other-
wise, that very avarice you ascribe to him, will operate as I
supposed.

You are unmercifully witty upon what I said concerning the
West Indies : but the misfortune of it is, you have done nothing
else than "blunder round about my meaning." I will endeavor
to explain myself in a manner more level to your capacity.

The lands in the West Indies are extremely valuable, be-
cause they produce the sugar cane, which is a very lucrative
plant ; but they are small in quantity, and therefore their pro-
prietors appropriate only small portions to the purpose of raising
food. They are very populous, and therefore the food raised
among themselves goes but little way. They could not afford
sufficient sustenance to their inhabitants, unless they were chiefly
or entirely applied to the production of necessaries; because
they are so small in quantity, and so thickly inhabited.

These are truths which every person acquainted with the
West Indies must acquiesce in : and should they be deprived of
external succors, they must either starve, or suspend the culti-
vation of the sugar cane. The last is the best side of the
dilemma ; but that would cut off an annual income of several
millions sterling to Great Britain ; for it cannot admit of a doubt,
that the chief part of the profits of the English West Indies,
ultimately centres there.

But, in order to disappoint my malice, you tell me that Can-
ada raises four hundred thousand bushels of wheat a year ; and
this, you imagine, will pretty well supply the wants of the West
Indians : but give me leave to inform you, that it would not
satisfy a tenth part of them. The single Island of Jamaica
would require much more. At a moderate computation, I be-
lieve there are four hundred thousand people in the British
West Indies only. Let us allow a pound of wheat a day upon
an average, to each,* and make a calculation accordingly.

* This allowance cannot be thought too much, if we consider that the negroes

jEt. 18.] T !i i: v \ i: m i: R n i: p rJT I'D. L09

At a pound a day, every person musl be supposed to con-
sume three hundred and Bixty-five pounds a year; thai is, about
twelve bushels. Now, as there are as many people as there are
bushels of wheat raised in Canada; and as each person would
consume twelve bushels, it follows, that the quantity you men-
tion, would ao1 be above a twelfth pari sufficient.

Bui '•.hi we imagine, thai all the wheal of Canada would be
devoted tothe use of the British West Indies? [four p
were to be blocked up, would not the French and Spanish
islands be in great distress for provisions? And have no1 the
Canadians any uear connections among them ? Would they uot
naturally sympathize with them, and do all in their power to
afford relief? And could they find no means to accomplish
their inclinations? The answer to these questions is easy. The
islands belonging to the French and Spaniards will be greatly
distressed: The Canadians will 1"' very ready and desirous

-i them: And they will contrive some expedients to commu-
nicate a large share of whal their country yields.

Whal you say concerning the lumber exported from Canada
i- totally false. That country labors under many inconveni-
ences which have hitherto prevented the exportation of that
article, bul in very small quantities, and of a particular kind.
The places where the lumber grows, are so far distant from the
seaports, thai the expense of transportation is too great to make
it worth while to ship nay other than butl staves, and these must
be brought quite from Lake Champlain. This disadvantage,
together with the number of hands it would require, and the
time necessary to enter extensively into any branch <»t' trade,
and t<> remove all the impediments naturally in the way, would
render the situation of the Wesl Indians truly pitiable, were they
once necessitated to depend upon Canada only, for supplies of
lumber.

The attention of Mississippi is entirely^ jsed in rai-

corn and indigo. The advantage arising from these arti

live chiefly upon grain ; and must continue to do bo ; because the quantity of I
and fish wuuld be proportionally diminished when uur supplies failed

110 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

much greater than would result from lumber ; and of course the
people of that country will never attend to the latter in prefer-
ence to the former.

Thus have I proved, in a full, clear, and conclusive manner,
that a cessation of our trade with Great Britain, Ireland, and the
West Indies, would be productive of the most fatal consequences
to them all ; and that, therefore, the peace, happiness, and safety,
of the British empire, are connected with the redress of our
grievances ; and, if they are at all consulted, our measures can-
not fail of success.

As to the justice of proceeding in the manner we have done,
it must depend upon the necessity of such a mode of conduct. If
the British Parliament are claiming and exercising an unjust
authority, we are right in opposing it, by every necessary means.
If remonstrances and petitions have been heretofore found in-
effectual (and we have no reasonable ground to expect the con-
trary at present), it is prudent and justifiable to try other me-
thods, and these can only be, restrictions on trade. Our duty to
ourselves and posterity, supersedes the duties of benevolence to
our fellow-subjects in Great Britain, Ireland, and the West
Indies.

You can never confute the arguments I before made use of
on this head, unless you can prove the right of Parliament to
act as it has done ; or the likelihood of succeeding by petitions.
Your feeble endeavors to effect this, I have sufficiently baffled.
You must now collect new forces, and make a more vigorous
effort, or you must quit the field in disgrace.

Such vociferation as this is not to be admitted instead of
argument: "Are the Irish and the West Indians accountable
for our mad freaks ? Do you expect to extend the tyranny of
the Congress over the whole British empire, by the legerdemain
of calling it American freedom ? Do you think that the Irish
and West Indians are in duty bound to enter into our non-im-
portation, non-consumption, and non-exportation agreements, till
our grievances, real or pretended, are removed ? And that they
deserve to be starved if they do not? Enjoy your folly and
malevolence if you can."

jet. 18.] THE FARMER REFUTED. Ill

The resistance* we are making to Parliamentary tyranny,
cannot wear the aspecl of madjreaks to any, bn1 Buch mad ima-
ginations as yours. It will be deemed virtuous and laudable
by every ingenuous mind. When I said thai the people of
Greal Britain, [reland, and the Wes1 Indies, were to be consid-
ered as politically criminal, for remaining neutral while our pri\ i-
leges were attacked ; I did no1 mean thai they oughl to enter
into any of the above mentioned agreements; bu1 thai it .
their duty to signify, in a public manner, their disapprobation of
the measures carrying on, and to use all their influence to 1.
them laid aside. Ead they interested themselves in the affair,
with any degree of zeal and earnestness, we should not, pro-
bably, have had occasion to act as Ave do; and they would not
have been in danger of their presenl calamities. Their obliga-
tion to assist as in the preservation of our rights, is of the very
same nature with ours, to carry on a trade with them.

But you insist upon it. we should nol be able to live without
the manufactures of Great Britain; and thai we should be
ruined by a prohibition of our exports. "The first winter after
our KiiLi'lish irooils are eonsumed, we shall be starving with
cold:" after all our endeavors, "the requisite quantity of wool
to clothe the inhabitants of this continent, could oo1 be obtained
in twenty years." As to cotton, it " must come from the south-
colonies; and the expense of bringing it by land, would be
too greal for the poor. Besides, we have nobody to manufacture
our materials after we have got them." Ail these, you think,
are insuperable obstacles; and would, if duly considered, induce
us to bend our necks tamely and quietly to the proffered yoke,
as much less dreadful than the evils attendant upon our mea-
sures will inevitably be.

\ iture has disseminated her blessings variously throughout
this continent. Some parts of it are favorable to some things,
others to others; some colonies are best calculated for grain;

* I mean the general resistance. That there have been some irregularities
committed in America, 1 freely confess It would be miraculous and inconsistent
with human nature, for a people in such critical and trying circumstance - to ad
perfectly right.

112 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |\Et. 18.

others for flax and hemp ; others for cotton ; and others for live
stock of every kind. By this means, a mutually advantageous
intercourse may be established between them all. If we were to
turn our attention from external to internal commerce, we should
give greater stability and more lasting prosperity to our country
than she can possibly have otherwise. We should not then im-
port the luxuries and vices of foreign climes ; nor should we
make such hasty strides to public corruption and depravity.

Let all those lands, which are rich enough to produce flax and
hemp, be applied to that purpose ; and let such parts as have
been a long time settled, still continue to be appropriated to
grain, or other things they are fit for. We shall want as much
of the former articles as can be raised; and perhaps as much of
the latter, as may be requisite towards the due improvement of
the poorer part of our soil. Let it be considered, that the colo-
nies which are adapted to the production of materials for manu-
factures, will not be employed in raising grain, but must take
what they use chiefly from the other colonies ; and, in return,
supply their materials. By this means, and by dedicating no
more of our land to the raising of wheat, rye, corn, &c, than is
incapable of producing other things, we shall find no superfluity
of those articles ; and shall make a very beneficial use of all our
lands. This is practicable ; difficulties may be started, but none
which perseverance and industry may not overcome.

The clothes we already have in use, and the goods at present
in the country, will, with care, be sufficient to last three years*
During that time, we shall be increasing our sheep as much as
possible. It is unfair to judge of the future from the past.
Hitherto we have paid no great attention to them ; we have
killed and exported as fast as we could obtain a sale. When we
come to attend properly to the matter, to kill but few, and to ex-
port none, we shall, in the course of two or three years, have
large numbers of sheep ; and wool enough to go a considerable
way towards clothing ourselves.

* I may be thought here to contradict my former assertion, to wit, that
in eighteen months, all the goods we have among us will be consumed ; but I
only meant, that all the goods in the hands of the merchants would be purchased
and taken off.

jEt. 18.] Till: PARMEB REFUTED. 118

Flax and hemp we should undoubtedly bave in abundance.
The immense tracts of new rich land, which may be planted with
these articles, would yield immense quantities of them. What
large supplies of seed do we annually expoii to Ireland I When
we come to withhold these, and make the cultivation of Sax and

hemp a matter of serious attention, we shall s< procure a plenty

of them. Jn speaking of this matter, you confine your \ iev.
the single small province of New- York. You Bay, " We bow al-
ready as much flax as we can conveniently manage. Besides, it
requires a rich free soil ; uor will the same ground in this country
produce flax a second time, till alter an interval of Ave or six
years. If the measures of the Congress should be carried into
full effect, 1 confess we may, in a year or two, want a large quan-
tity of hemp for the executioner. But I fear we must import it.
It exhausts the soil too much to be cultivated in the old settled
parts of the province."

There is land enough in the other provinces, that is rich, free
and new ; nor is it at all liable to the objections you make. As
to this particular province, and any others in the same circum-
stances, let only such parts as are lit, be planted with the articles
in question, and let the rest be managed as before. Much more
may be produced in this, than has been hitherto; but if it could
not afford a sufficiency for itself, let it exchange its grain with
other colonies that Buperabound with such materials.

If we sow already as much flax as we can conveniently ma-
nage, it is because the chief of our attention is engrossed by other
things; but the supposition is, that there will be less demand for
them, and more for flax ; and, by attending less to present ob-
jects, we shall have it in our power for the future to sow and
manage much more flax than in the time past.

With respect to cotton, you do not pretend to deny thai a
sufficient quantity of that might be produced. Several of the
southern colonies arc so favorable to it, that with due cultivation,
in a couple of years, they would afford enough to clothe the
whole continent.

A.s to the expense of bringing it by land, the besi way will
be, to manufacture it where it grows, and afterwards transport it

B 8

114 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

to the other colonies. Upon this plan, I apprehend, the expense
would not be greater than to build and equip large ships to im-
port the manufactures of Great Britain from thence.

The difficulty of transportation would be attended with one
great advantage. It would give employment and bread to a
number of people ; and would, among other things, serve to
prevent there being those terrific bands of thieves, robbers, and
highwaymen, which you endeavor to draw up in such formid-
able array against the Congress.

It would, however, be hardly possible to block up our ports
in such a manner as to cut off all communication between the
colonies by water.

There would remain some avenues, in spite of all that could
be done ; and we should not be idle in making proper use of
them.

I mentioned before the vast quantities of skins in America,
which would never let us want a warm and comfortable suit.
This is one of our principal resources ; and this you have passed
over in silence. A suit made of skins would not be quite so
elegant as one of broadcloth ; but it would shelter us from the
inclemency of the winter full as well.

Upon the whole, considering all the resources we have, and
the time we shall have to prepare them before we are in actual
want, there can be no room to doubt, that we may live without
the manufactures of Great Britain, if we are careful, frugal and
industrious.

But it is said, we have no persons to manufacture our ma-
terials after we have provided them. Among the swarms of
emigrants that have, within these few years past, come to the
continent, there are numbers of manufacturers in the necessary
branches. These, for want of encouragement in their own
occupations, have been obliged to apply themselves to other
methods of getting a living, but would be glad of an oppor-
tunity to return to them. Besides these, we should soon have
a plenty of workmen from Great Britain and Ireland. Num-
bers who would be thrown out of employ there, would be
glad to flock to us for subsistence. They would not stay at

JEt. 18.] THE P A R M E It R E F DT BD. 11 5

borne and be miserable, while there was any prospect of en-
courageinenl here. Neither is there any greal difficulty in
acquiring a competent knowledge of the manufacturing arts.
In a couple of years, many of our own people mighl become
proficient enough to make the coarser kinds of stufis and linens.

But, if it should be necessary, we have other resources he-
sides all these. It will be impossible for the .-hips of Great
Britain to line the vast extended coasl of this continent, in such
a manner as to preclude the admission of foreign aids and sup-
plies. After every possible precaution againsi it, we shall still
be able to get large quantities of goods from Franco and
Holland*

I shall conclude this head with one more observation,
which is this: That all such as maybe deprived of business
by the operation of our measures in America, may be employed
in cultivating lands. We have enough and to spare. It is of
no force to object, that " when our exports are stopped, our
grain would become of little worth." They can be occupied in
raising other things that will be more wanted, to wit, materials
for manufactures; and only a sufficiency of provisions for their
own use. In such a country as this, there can be no great diffi-
culty in finding business for all its inhabitants. Those obstacles
which, to the eye of timidity, or disaffection, seem like the
Alps, would, to the hand of resolution and perseverance, become
mere hillocks.

Once more I insist upon it, that Great Britain can never force
us to submission by blocking up our ports; and that the con-
sequences of such a procedure to herself, Ireland, and the
West Indies, would be too fatal to admit of it. If she is deter-
mined to enslave us, it must be by force of arms; and to attempt
this, I again assert, would be nothing less than tju grossest vnfatoir

on, madru ss its< If.

* You may perhaps tell me here, thai [ contradict the sentiments I formerly
delivered, respecting unlawful trade. But it is by no means the case, [despise
the practice of avaricious smugglers very heartily; but when a whole people
are invaded, there can be no law of any force against their procuring every
needful succor.

116 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 18.

Whatever may be said of the disciplined troops of Great
Britain, the event of the contest must be extremely doubtful.
There is a certain enthusiasm in liberty, that makes human
nature rise above itself in acts of bravery and heroism. It
cannot be expected that America would yield, without a mag-
nanimous, persevering, and bloody struggle. The testimony of
past ages, and the least knowledge of mankind, must suffice to
convince us of the contrary. We have a recent instance in
Corsica, to what lengths a people will go in defence of its liber-
ties : and if we take a view of the colonies in general, we must
perceive that the pulse of Americans beats high in their coun-
try's cause. Let us, then, suppose the arms of Great Britain
triumphant, and America mutilated, exhausted and vanquished.
What situation will Great Britain then be in ? What laurels
will she reap from her conquests ? Alas, none ! Every true
friend to that deluded country, must shudder at the prospect of
her self-destroying success. The condition we should be left in,
would disable us from paying the six millions sterling, which is
due for the manufactures of Great Britain. Instead of the pre-
sent millions derived annually from our trade, we should be so
distressed and reduced, as to be, for many years to come, a bur-
then, and not an advantage. Millions are soon dispensed in
supporting fleets and armies. Much British treasure and blood
would be expended in effecting our ruin.

This, then, would be the situation of Great Britain. Her
public debt would be augmented several millions. Her mer-
chants, who are one of the principal sources of her opulence,
would, many of them, become bankrupt, by the loss of the vast
sums due them in America. Her manufactures would stagnate
and decay, and her revenues would be considerably diminished.
This continent, which is now a rich source of wealth and
strength, would be debilitated and depressed.

Would the ancient rivals and enemies of Great Britain be
idle at such a conjuncture as this? Would they not eagerly
seize the opportunity to recover their former losses, and revenge
the evils they have sustained on former occasions ? It will be
said, This is possible, but it may not happen. I answer, Causes

JEt. 18.] THE FARM Kit REPUTED. 117

must tail of their usual effects If it does not Princes and
aationa musl cease to 1"' ambitions and avaricious. The French,
from being a jealous, politic, and enterprising people, musl be
grown negligent, stupid, and Inattentive to their own inter
They never could have a fairer opportunity, or a greater temp-
tation to aggrandize themselves, and triumph over ©real Britain
than would be here presented. Let as imagine England im-
mersed in a war with Prance, Spain, or any other potent neigh-
bor; with her public debl increased; some of her l>es1 Bpri]
dried up; and America ruined: not onlyunable to afford her
any assistance, but, perhaps, fired with resentment, and a sei
of accumulated injuries, ready to throw itself into the arms of
her enemies. In the>e circumstances, what would be the late of
this unhappy kingdom? Everyman of discernment must be
convinced that ruin would be unavoidable.

But what reason have we to believe the arms of Great Britain
would prevail? It will be replied. Because she can send against
us some of the best troops in the world, either with respect to
valor or discipline; and because we have only a raw, unexperi-
enced militia to oppose them. Discipline and military skill are
certainly matters of great importance, and give those to whom
they belong, a vasl superiority; bu1 they do not render them
invincible. Superior numbers, joined to natural intrepidity, and
that animation, which is inspired by a desire of freedom, and a
love of one's country, may very well overbalance those advan-
ces.

I imagine, it will be readily allowed, that Great Britain could
not spare an army of above fifteen thousand men to send against
the colonies. These would have to subdue near six hundred
thousand. The established rule of computing the number of
men capable of bearing arms in any nation, is by taking a tilth
pari of the whole people. By the best calculations, we are sup-
posed, in America, to exceed three millions. The fifth part of
three millions is six hundred thousand. But in order to be cer-
tain of our computation. Le1 OS suppose there are only five hun-
dred thousand fighting men in the colonies. Then there will be
upwards of thirty Americans to one British soldier. A great

118 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 18.

disparity indeed ! And such as never can be compensated by
any discipline or skill whatever! It will be objected, that these
five hundred thousand cannot act together. I grant it : nor is
there any occasion that they should. Forty thousand will be a
sufficient number to make head at a time ; and these must be
kept up by fresh supplies as fast as there is any diminution.

Let it be remembered, that there are no large plains for the
two armies to meet in, and decide the contest by some decisive
stroke; where any advantage gained by either side, might be
prosecuted till a complete victory was obtained. The circum-
stances of our country put it in our power to evade a pitched
battle. It will be better policy to harass and exhaust the soldi-
ery, by frequent skirmishes and incursions, than to take the open
field with them, by which means they would have the full benefit
of their superior regularity and skill. Americans are better
qualified for that kind of fighting, which is most adapted to this
country, than regular troops. Should the soldiery advance into
the country, as they would be obliged to do if they had any
inclination to subdue us, their discipline would be of little use
to them. We should, in that case, be at least upon an equality
with them, in any respect ; and as we should have the advantage,
on many accounts, they would be likely to gain nothing by their
attempts.

Several of the colonies are now making preparation for the
worst (and indeed the best way to avoid a civil war, is to be pre-
pared for it). They are disciplining men as fast as possible ; and,
in a few months, will be able to produce many thousands, not
so much inferior in the essentials of discipline as may, perhaps,
be imagined. A little actual service will put them very nearly
upon a footing with their enemies. The history of the Swedes
and Eussians, under Charles XII., and Peter the Great, will
teach us how soon a people, possessed of natural bravery, may
be brought to equal the most regular troops. The Swedes, at
first, obtained very signal advantages ; but, after a while, the
Eussians learned to defeat them with equal numbers. It is true,
there was one of the greatest men the world has seen, at the
head of the latter ; but there was one who emulated the Mace-

jEt. 18.] THE FARMEB REFUTED. 119

donian conqueror, a1 the head of the former. Charles was, per-
haps, never surpassed by any man in courage, or skill: and his
soldiers were well worthy of such a general. There is also this
important circumstance in our favor, when compared with the
Russians. They were barbarous and (intractable. We are civ-
ilized and docile. They were ignoranl even of the theory of
war. We are well acquainted with it; and, therefore, should
more easily 1"' brought to the practice of it, and be Booner
taughl that order and method which we are deficienl in.

It i- sometimes urged thai we have no experienced officers to
command us. We labor tinder some disadvantage in this re-
spect, but not so great as is believed. There are many who
have 3erved in the lasl warwith reputation, dispersed throughout
the colonies. These might have the superior direction of nntt-

: and there are men enough of known sense and courage,
who would soon make excellent officers. During the disputes
between the unfortunate Charles and the Parliament, many
country gentlemen served in the armies of the latter, and signa-
lized themselves for their military virtues. It is worthy of ob-
servation, that the present state of the army is not the most
favorable. As is always the consequence of a long peace, there
are many effeminate striplings anion-- the officers, who are better
calculated to marshal the forces of Venus, than to conduct the
sturdy sons of Mars. There are, comparatively, but few vete-
rans, either among the Leaders, or the common soldiei

You ask me, What resources have the colonies to pay, clothe,
arm, and feed their troo] is ? 1 refer yon to the accounts from
Virginia and Marblehead, for an answer to this question. Our
troops, on the spot with us, will be much more easily maintained,
than those of Greal Britain a1 such a distance. We arc not so poor
and encumbered, as to be unable to support those who are imme-
mediately employed in defending our liberties. Our country
abounds in provisions. We have already materials eno
among us, to keep its in clothes, longer than Great Britain
would have any appetite to continue her hostilities. Several of
the colonies are pretty well stored with ammunition. France,
Spain, and Holland, would find means to supply US with what-
ever we wanted.

120 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 18.

Let it not be said, that this last is a bare possibility: that
France and Spain have promised not to interfere in the dispute ;
and that Holland has long been a faithful ally to the British
nation. There is the highest degree of probability in the case.
A more desirable object to France and Spain, than the disunion
of these colonies from Great Britain, cannot be imagined. Every
dictate of policy and interest, would prompt them to forward it
by every possible means. They could not take any so effectual
method to destroy the growing power of their great rival. The
promises of princes and statesmen are of little weight. They
never bind longer, than till a strong temptation offers to break
them: and they are frequently made with a sinister design. If
we consult the known character of the French, we shall be dis-
posed to conclude, that their present seemingly pacific and
friendly disposition, is merely a piece of finesse, intended to dupe
administration into some violent measures with the colonies, that
they may improve them to their own advantage. The most that
can be expected, is, that they would refrain from any open rup-
ture with Great Britain. They would undoubtedly take every
clandestine method to introduce among us, supplies of those
things which we stood in need of to carry on the dispute. They
would not neglect any thing in their power, to make the opposi-
tion on our part as vigorous and obstinate as our affairs would
admit of.

With respect to Holland, notwithstanding express engage-
ments to the contrary, her merchants, during the last war, were
constantly suppb/ing the French and Spaniards with military
stores, and other things they had occasion for. The same, or
perhaps, more powerful motives, would influence them to assist
us in a like manner.

But it seems to me a mark of great credulity to believe, upon
the strength of their assurance, that France and Spain would
not take a still more interesting part in the affair. The disjunc-
tion of these colonies from Great Britain, and the acquisition of
a free trade wth them, are objects of too inviting a complexion,
to suffer those kingdoms to remain idle spectators of the conten
tion. If they found us inclined to throw ourselves upon their

JEr. 18.] THE PARMER REFUTED. 1-1

protection, they would eagerly embrace the opportunity to
weaken their antagonist, and strengthen themselves. Su]
added to these general and prevailing inducements, th< re .-ire
others oi a more particular nature. They wouldfeel no -mall
inconvenience in the loss of those supplies they annually
from us; ami their islands in the West liplies would be inQhe
greatesl distress t«>r want of our trade.

Prom these reflections it is more than probable, thai America
is able to support its freedom, even by the force of ai 3he

be not betrayed by her own sons. And, in whatever lighl we
view the matter, the consequences to Ghreal Britain won 1-1 be too
destructive to permit her to proceed to extremities, unless she
has losl all just sense of her own interest.

You Bay, "The grand Congress, the piddling committees,
through the continent, have all disclaimed their subjection to the
sovereign authority of the empire. They deny the authority of
Parliament to make any laws to bind them at all. They clt
an absolute independency. Greal Britain has no choice, but to
declare the colonies independent States, or to try the force of
arms, in order to bring them to a sense of their duty."

It is the common trick of ministerial writers, to represent
the Congress as having made some new demands, which v.
unknown to former times; whereas, in truth, they have, in sub-
stance, acknowledged the only dependence on Parliament which
was eve]- intended by their predecessors. Nor is it true, that
they have claimed an absolute independency. It is insulting com-
mon sense to say so, when it is notorious that they have acknow-
ledged the right of Parliament to regulate the trade of the

colonies. Any further dependent n it, is unnecessary and

dangerous. They have professed allegiance to the British King,
and have hound themselves, on any emergency, to contribute
their proportion of men and money, to the defence and prol
tion of the whole empire. Can this be called absohth indep
encyf Is it better for Gxeal Britain to hazard the total loss of
these colonies, than to hold them upon these conditions ? Is it
preferable to make enemies of the people of America, insl
of being connected with them, by the equal tie i ■flub-

122 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 18.

jects ? Is it not madness, to run the risk of losing tlie trade of
these colonies, from which the mother country drew* " more
clear profit than Spain has drawn from all her mines," because
they insist only upon all the essential rights of freemen ? You
may call it effrontery, consummate assurance, or what you
plftise, to say so : but every man, capable of taking a full pros-
pect of all the probable mischiefs which may result from an open
rupture between Great Britain and the colonies, will coincide
with me when I affirm, that nothing but the most frantic extra-
vagance, can influence administration to attempt the reduction
of America by force of arms.

It is sufficiently evident, from the respective charters, that
the rights we now claim, are coeval with the original settlement
of these colonies. These rights have been, at different times,
strenuously asserted, though they have been suffered to be vio-
lated in several instances, through inattention, or, perhaps, an
unwillingness to quarrel with the mother country. I shall de-
cline producing any other proofs of the sense of the other pro-
vinces than those already mentioned, and shall confine myself
to a few extracts from the resolves of some assemblies of this
province.

In 1691, there was an Act passed by the General Assembly,
which contained the following clauses, f

" Be it enacted, by the Governor, Council, and Representa-
tives, met in General Assembly, and it is hereby enacted and
declared by the authority of the same, that the siipreim. hyislative
power and authority, under their Majesties, William and Mary,
King and Queen of England, &c, shall for ever be, and reside,
in a Governor-in-Chief and Council, appointed by their Majes-
ties, their heirs and successors, and the people, by their repre-
sentatives met and convened in General Assembly.

" That no freeman shall be taken or imprisoned, or be de-
prived of his freehold, or life, or liberty, or free customs, or out-

* Sec Shipley's Speech.

f This Act is very remarkable. It was drawn up by Messrs. Tazewell and
Emmett, two gentlemen appointed by the governor for the purpose, and remained
six years in England before there was a negative put upon it.

Mt. is.] T ii 1: P \ it m 1:1: B 1: PUTED. 123

lawed, ot exiled, or any otherways destroyed; dot shrill be

3ed upon, adjudged, or condemned, bul by the lawful judgment
of his peers, and by the law of the provim .

"Thatno aid, tax, tallage, custom, loan, benevolent
duty, or imposition whatsoever, shall be laid, assessed, imposed,
levied, or required <>f. or on, any of their Majesties' sub
within this province, &c, or their estates, upon any manner of
color or pretence whatsoever, bul by the ac1 and consenl of the
Governor and Council, and Representatives of the people, in
General Assembly me1 and convened."

This Art shows clearly, the sense of Hi- Majesty's represen-
tative, his Council, and the Assembly of this Province, above
eighty years ago, which was, thai the supreme Legislative author-
ity, and the exclusive power of taxation, should for ever be,
and reside, in a Governor-in-Chief and Council, appointed by
their Majesties, their heirs unci successors; and the people by
their representatives, met and convened in General Assembly.

We may also infer from hence, that the other coloni
ually enjoyed similar privileges a1 that time : for it would have
been the heighl of presumption, in this province, to claim such
important immunities, bad not the others been in possession of
the like.

This Act, of itself) confutes all thai has been said coi rning

the novell ir presenl claims; and proves, thai the injuri-

ous reflections on the Congress, for having risen in their de-
mands, are malicious and repugnanl to truth.

You have produced some expressions of the Congress and
Assembly of this province, in L765, which you lay great sti
upon. The true meaning of them may be gathered from the
following passage, which is taken from the same piece thai con-
tains the expressions in question. The Congress speak thus:
"It is humbly submitted, whether there be nol a material dis-
tinction, in reason and Bound policy al least, between the ne
sary exercise of parliamentary jurisdiction, in general A<
the amendm#it of the common law, and the regulation of trade
and commerce through the whole empire; and thee:
that jurisdiction by imposing taxes on the coloni

124 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

They allow only a power of making general Acts for the
amendment of the common law, and for the general regulation of
trade. As to any special laws to bind the colonies, in particular,
they never intended submission to these ; nor could they intend
a right to impose special duties, of any kind, for the purpose of
raising a revenue ; which is, to all intents and purposes, a species
of taxation.

The Eesolves of our Assembly, the last day of December,
1771, about three years afterwards, will serve as a full explana-
tion. " As it is not only the common birthright of all his Ma-
jesty's subjects, but is also essential to the preservation of the
peace, strength, and prosperity of the British empire, that an
exact equality of constitutional rights, among all his Majesty's sub-
jects, in the several parts of the empire, be uniformly and inva-
riably maintained and supported ; and as it would be inconsistent
with the constitutional rights of his Majesty's subjects in Great
Britain, to tax them, either in person or estate, without the con-
sent of their representatives, in Parliament assembled: It is
therefore
Eesolved, nemine contradicente :

"That it is the opinion of this Committee, that no tax under
any name, or denomination, or on any pretence, or for any purpose
whatsoever, can or ought to be imposed, or levied, upon the per-
sons, estates, or property, of his Majesty's good subjects within
this colony, hut of their free gift, by their representatives lawfully con-
vened in General Assembly.

" That it is the opinion of this Committee, that this colony
lawfully and constitutionally has, and enjoys, an internal legisla-
ture, in which the Crown and the people of this colony, are con-
stitutionally represented : and that the power and authority of the
said legislature cannot lawfully or constitutionally be suspended,
abridged, abrogated, or ammlled, by any power or prerogative what-
soever; the prerogative of the Crown, ordinarily exercised for
prorogations and dissolutions, only excepted."

A supreme authority, in the Parliament, to make any special
laws for this province, consistent with the internal legislature

JEt. 18.] THE FARMER REPUTED. L25

here claimed, is impossible, and can n- -t he supposed, without
filling into thai solecism in politics, of imperium in impa
I imagine, sir, 1 have, by this time, pretty rally and
torily answered every lining contai 1 in your letter of ani con-
sequence. rl'li'' parts I have lefl unattended to, are Buch as can-
t i < >t operate, materially, to tin' prejudice of tin' cause I espo
lint 1 should qo1 have neglected them, had it not been, thai I
have already taken a very ample range; ami it would, perhaps,
I"- imprudeul t<> delay a conclusion.

Whatever opinion may be entertained of my sentiments ami
intentions, 1 attesl that. Being, whose all-seeing eye penetral
the inmost recesses of the heart, that I am no1 influenced (in the
part I take) by any unworthy motive— That, if I am in an er-
ror, it is my judgment^ no1 my heart, that errs. — That] earnestly
lam. 'tit the unnatural quarrel between the parent State ami the
colonies; and most ardently wish for a speedy reconciliation —
a perpetual ami mutually beneficial union. — That I am a warm
advocate for limited monarchy, and an unfeigned well-wisher to
the present Royal Family.

But, on tin' other hand, I am inviolably attached to the
Mai rights of mankind, and tin' true interests of society. I
mh'i- civil liberty, in a genuine, unadulterated the

greatesl "I' terrestrial blessings. 1 am convinced, that the whole
human race is entitled to it ; and that it can he wrested from no
of them, without the blackest and most aggravated guilt.
I verily believe, also, that the b«>t way t<> secure a perma-
nent and happy union between Greal Britain ami the coloni< -
to permit the hitter to he as live as they desire. To abri
their liberties, or to exercise any power over them, which they
are unwilling to submil to. would he ;( perpetual source of dis-
content and animosity. A continual jealousy would exist on
both sides. This would lead to tyranny on the one ha i to

sedition ami rebellion on the ..the)'. Impositions, not really
grievous in themselves, would he thought so; and the murmurs
arising from thence, would he considered as the i of a turbu-

lent, ungovernable spirit. These jarring principles would at

126 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

length throw all things into disorder, and be productive of an
irreparable breach, and a total disunion.

That harmony and mutual confidence may speedily be re-
stored between all the parts of the British empire, is the fa-
vorite wish of one who feels the warmest sentiments of good will
to mankind ; who bears no enmity to you ; and who is

A Sincere Friend to America.

jEt. 18.]

REMARKS ON THE QUEBEC BILL.

1775.

N". I.

Incompliance with my promise to the public, and in order
to rescue truth from the specious disguise with which it has been
clothed, I shall now offer a few remarks on the Act, entitled " An
Acl for making more effectual provision for the governmenl
the province of Quebec in North America;" whereby I trusl it
will clearly appear, that arbitrary po nd its great engine,

th«' Popish religii i all intents and purj dished

in that province.

While Canada was under the dominioii of Prance, the French
laws and customs were in force there; which are regulated in
conformity to the genius and complexion of a despotic constitu-
tion; and expose the lives and properties of subjects to continual
depredations from the malice and avarice <>l those in authority.
But when it fell under the dominion of < hreal Britain, these !.
so unfriendly to the happiness . gave pla

to th« • milder influence of the English laws: and his Majesty, by
proclamation, promised to all those who should settle there, a full
enjoymenl of the rights of British sul In violation of this

promise, the Ad before us d . "Thai the said proclama.

tion, and the commission under the authority whereof the
vernmenl of the said province is at presenl administered, ;
the same are, hereby revoked, annulled, and made void, from
and after the first day of M e thousand seven hundred

Beventy-five." This abolition of the privileges stipulated by the

128 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

proclamation, was not inflicted as a penalty for any crime by
which a forfeiture had been incurred ; but merely on jjretence of
the present form of government having been found by experience
to be inapplicable to the state and circumstances of the Province.

I have never heard any satisfactory account concerning the
foundation of this pretence ; for it does not appear, that the peo-
ple of Canada, at large, ever expressed a discontent with their
new establishment, or solicited a restoration of their old. They
were, doubtless, the most proper judges of the matter, and ought
to have been fully consulted before the alteration was made. If
we may credit the general current of intelligence which we have
had respecting the disposition of the Canadians, we must con-
clude they are averse to the present regulation of the Parlia-
ment, and had rather continue under the form of government
instituted by the Eoyal proclamation.

However this be, the French laws are again revived. It is
enacted, "That in all matters of controversy relative to property
and civil rights, resort shall be had to the laws of Canada, as
the rule for the decision of the same : and all causes that here-
after shall be instituted in any of the Courts of justice, shall,
with respect to such property and rights, be determined agree-
ably to the said laws and customs of Canada, until they shall be
varied and altered by any ordinances that shall, from time to
time, be passed in the said province, by the Governor, Lieute-
nant-Governor, or Commander-in-Chief for the time being, by
and with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council of
the same." Thus the ancient laws of Canada are restored, liable
to such variations and additions as shall be deemed necessary by
the Governor and Council : and as both the one and the other
are to be appointed by the King during pleasure, they will be
all his creatures, and entirely subject to his will, which is thereby
rendered the original fountain of law : and the property and
civil rights of the Canadians are made altogether dependent
upon it : because the power communicated, of varying and alter-
ing, by new ordinances, is indefinite and unlimited. If this does
not make the king absolute in Canada, I am at a loss for any
tolerable idea of absolute authority ; which I have ever thought

jEt. 18.] QUEBEC BILL. 129

to consist, with respect to a monarch, in the power of governing
his people according to the dictates of his <>wi. will. In the
presenl case, he has only to inform the Governor and Council,
what new laws he would choose to have passed, and their situ-
ation will insure their compliance.

It is further provided, "Thai nothing contained in the Act,
shall extend, or be construed to extend, to prevenl or hinder his
Majesty, his heirs, and successors, from erecting, constituti
and appointing, from time to time, such courts of criminal, civil,
and ecclesiastical jurisdiction, within and for the said province of
Qucl.cc, and appointing, from time to time, the judges and offic
thereof, as his Majesty, his heirs and successors, shall think ne-
cessary for the circumstances of the said province."

Here a power of a most extraordinary and dangerous nature
is conferred. There must be an end of all liberty where the
prince is possessed of such an exorbitant prerogative as enables
him, at pleasure, to establish the most iniquitous, cruel, and
oppressive courts of criminal, civil, and ecclesiastical jurisdic-
tion; and to appoint temporary judges ami officers, whom he
can displace and change as often as he pleases. For what can
more nearly concern the safety and happiness of Bubjects, than
the wise economy, and equitable constitution of those courts in
which trials for life, liberty, property, and religion, are to be
conducted? Should it eve]- comport with the designs <<l' an
ambitious and wicked minister, we may see an Inquisition ere
in Canada; and priest lv t\ ran n v hereafter find as propitious a -oil
in America, as it ever has in Spain or Portugal

But in order to varnish over the arbitrary complexion of the
Act, and to conciliate the minds of tin- Canadians, it is provided,
"That whereas, the certainty and lenity of tin- criminal law of
England, and the benefits and advantages resulting from thi
of it, have been sensibly felt by the inhabitants, from an expe-
rience of more than nine years: Therefore, the same shall he
administered, and shall be observed as law, in the provinc
Quebec, to the exclusion of every rule of criminal law w
did, or might, prevail in said province before the \,'.ty o]
sand seven hundred and sixty-four."

B 9

130 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 18.

As "it is in the goodness of criminal laws, that the liberty
of the subject principally depends,"* this would have been an
important privilege, had it not been rendered uncertain and alien-
able by the latter part of the same clause, which makes them
" subject to such alterations and amendments, as the Governor,
Lieutenant-Governor, and Commander-in-Chief for the time be-
ing, by and with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council
of the same, shall, from time to time, cause to be made therein."

Under the notion of necessary alterations and amendments,
the King, through the medium of his creatures, the Governor
and Council, may entirely new mould the criminal laws of
Canada, and make them subservient to the most tyrannical
views. So that, in this respect, also, the principle of arbitary
power, which is the soul of the Act, is uniformly maintained
and preserved, in full vigor, Avithout the least real or effectual
diminution.

It has been denied, with the most palpable absurdity, that the
right of trial by juries is taken from the Canadians. It is said,
that the provincial legislature of Canada may introduce them as
soon as they please ; and it is expected that they will, " as soon
as the inhabitants desire them," or "the state of the country will
admit of them."

A civil right is that, which the laws and the constitution
have actually conferred ; not that which may be derived from
the future bounty and beneficence of those in authority. The
possibility that the Legislature of Canada may hereafter intro-
duce trials by juries, does not imply a right in the people to
enjoy them. For in the same sense it may be said, that the inhabit-
ants of France, or Spain, have a right to trial by juries, because
it is equally in the power of their legislatures to establish them.

Since, therefore, it is apparent, that a system of French laws
has been established in the province of Quebec ; and an indefi-
nite power vested in the King, to vary and alter these laws ; as
also to constitute such courts of criminal, civil, and ecclesiastical
jurisdiction ; and to introduce such a form of criminal law as he
shall judge necessary ; I say, since all this is deducible from the

* Montesquieu.

JEt. 18.] QUEHIlc BILL. 131

express letter of the Act; or, in other words, since tin- whole
Legislative, Executive, and Judiciary powers, are ultimately and
effectually, though not immediately, Lodged in the King; there
can 1"' no room to doubt, that an arbitrary government bas been
really instituted throughout the extensive region now com-
prised in the province of Qih 'I "c.

NO. II.

Having considered tin- nature of this Bill with regard to civil
government, 1 am next to examine it with relation to religion;
and to endeavor to show, that the Church of Rome has now the
sanction of a legal establishment in the province of Quebec.

In order to do this the more satisfactorily, I beg leave to
adopt the definition given of an established religion, by a certain
writer who has takm great pains to evince the contrary. l> An
established religion," says be, "is a religion which the civil au-
thority engages, not only to protect, but to support." This Act
makes effectual provision, not only for the protection, but for
the permanent support of popery : as is evident from the follow-
ing clause: "And for the more perfeel security and ease of the
minds of the inhabitants of the said province, it is hereby de-
clared, thai his Majesty's subjects, professing the religion of the
Church of Home, in the said province, may have, hold, and en-
joy, the free exercise of the religion of the Church of Rome.
subject to the Bang's supremacy, &c. ; and that the clergy of the
said Church, may hold, receive, and enjoy, their accustomed
dues and rights, &c."

This is represented as a bare permission to the clergy, to en-
joy the usual emoluments of their functions, and not as a legal
provision for their support Much Btress & ems to be laid on tin-
word "may," which is commonly italicised. But though the
phraseology be artful, yet it is easy to perceive, that it opei
to the same effect as if it had been more positive and emphatical.

The clergy "may hold, receive, and enjoy, their accustomed
dues and rights." They may if they please. It is at then

132 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 18.

tion, and must depend upon their will ; and, consequently, there
must be a correspondent obligation upon their parishioners to
comply with that will, and to pay those dues when required.
What the law gives us an unconditional permission to enjoy, no
person can legally withhold from us. It becomes our property
and we can enforce our right to it. If the Legislature of this co-
lony were to decree, that the clergy of the different denomina-
tions, may hold, receive, and enjoy, tithes of their respective con-
gregations; we should soon find that it would have the same
efficacy as if it were decreed, that the several congregations
should pay tithes to their respective clergy. For, otherwise, the
Legislature might confer a right which had no correlative obliga-
tion ; and which must, therefore, be void and inefficacious. But
this is contradictory and impossible.

" Tithes in Canada," it is said, "are the property of the Ro-
man Church : and permitting a tolerated Church to enjoy its own
property, is far short of the idea of an establishment." But I
should be glad to know, in the first place, how tithes can be the
property of any but of an established church ? And in the next,
how they came to be the property of the Romish Church in Ca-
nada, during the intermediate space between the surrender of
that province to the English, and the passing of this Act?
Nothing can be deemed my property, to which I have not a
perfect and uncontrollable right by the laws. If a church have
not a similar right to tithes, it can have no property in them ;
and if it have, it is plain the laws must have made provision for
its support, or in other words, must have established it.

Previous to the surrender of Canada, the Catholic religion
was established there by the laws of France ; and tithes were,
on that account, the legal property of the Church of Rome ; and
could not be withheld by the laity, though ever so much dis-
posed to it. But after the surrender, this circumstance took a
different turn. The French laws being no longer in force, the
establishment of the Romish Church ceased of course ; and with
it, the property which it before had in tithes.

It is true, the clergy may have continued to receive and en-
joy their customary dues, tithes, and other perquisites : but they

JEr. 18.] QUEBEC HILL. 1 '■'<■'

were not, for all that, the property of the Church; because it
had lost its Legal right to them, and it was ;it the discretion <»i
the laity to withhold them, if they had thoughl proper; or to
abridge them, ami place them upon a more moderate footing.
Their voluntary concurrence was necessary to give their prii
a right to demand them as before. Bu1 by the Late Act, this

matter is again put into its former situation. Tithes are now

become the property of the Church, as formerly; because it again
has a legal claim to them; and the conditional consent of the
people is set aside. Thus we sec, thai this Act does not, in fact,
permit a tolerated church to enjoy "its own property," but
gives it a real and legal property in that which it before held
from the bounty and liberality of its professors; and which they
might withhold, or diminish, at pleasure: and this, in the most
proper sense, converts it into an establishment.

The characteristic difference between a tolerated and estab-
lished religion, consists in this: With respect to the support of
the former, the law is passive and improvident, leaving it to
those who profess it, to make as much, or as little, provision as
they shall judge expedient ; and to varyand alter thai provision,
as their circumstances may require. In this manner, the I'res-
byt' - and other sects, are tolerated in England. They are
allowed to exercise their religion without molestation, and to
maintain their clergy as they think proper. These are wholly
dependent upon their congregation.-, and can exact no more than
they stipulate and are satisfied to contribute. But with respect
to the support of the Latter, the Law is active and provident.
Certain precise dues, (tithes &C.,) are legally annexed to the
clerical office, independent on the liberal contributions of the
people; which is exactly the case with the Canadian pries
and therefore, no reasonable, impartial man, will doubt that the
religion of the Church of Rome is established in Canada. While

tithes Were the free, t hough CUst • >ma rv. gift of the people, aS WM

the case before the passing of the Act in question, the Roman

Church was only in a state of toleration : but when the law came
to take cognizance of them, and, by determining their permanent
existence, destroyed the free agency of the people, it then re-

134 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 18.

sumed the nature of an establishment, which it had been divested
of at the time of the capitulation.

As to the Protestant religion ; it is often asserted that ample
provision has been made by the Act, for its future establish-
ment : to prove which, the writer before mentioned, has quoted
a clause in the following mutilated manner : " It is provided "
says he, "that his Majesty, his heirs or successors, may make
such provision out of the accustomed dues, or rights, for the en-
couragement of the Protestant religion, and for the maintenance
of a Protestant clergy within the said province, as he or they
shall, from time to time, think necessary and expedient."

It must excite a mixture of anger and disdain to observe
the wretched arts to which a designing administration, and its
abettors, are driven, in order to conceal the enormity of their
measures. This whole clause, in its true and original construc-
tion, is destitute of meaning ; and was evidently inserted for no
other end than to deceive by the appearance of a provident re-
gard for the Protestant religion. The Act first declares, " That
his Majesty's subjects, professing the religion of the Church of
Eome, may have and enjoy the free exercise of their religion ;
and that the clergy of the said church, may hold, receive, and
enjoy their accustomed dues and rights." Then follows this
clause : " Provided, nevertheless, that it shall be lawful for his
Majesty, his heirs and successors, to make such provision out of
the rest of the said accustomed dues and rights, for the encour-
agement of the Protestant religion, for the maintenance and sup-
port of a Protestant clergy within the said province, as he or
they shall, from time to time, think necessary and expedient."

Thus we see, the Eomish clergy are to have, hold, and enjoy,
their accustomed dues and rights ; and the rest and remainder
of them, is to be applied towards the encouragement of the
Protestant religion : but when they have had their wonted dues,
I fancy it will puzzle administration, by any effort of political
chemistry to produce the rest, or remainder. Suppose, for in-
stance, A. made an actual settlement of a hundred pounds on
B. ; and, by a subsequent act, should declare that B. should
continue to hold and enjoy his accustomed and annual bounty ;

jEt. 18.] QUEBEC BILL. 185

•

and that tli" rest of the said bounty Bhould be given to Q. : it is
evident thatC. would have oothing, becanse there would be no
rest whatever. Exactly parallel ami analogous i- the case in
hand. The Romish priests an' t<> have their accustomed dues
and rights; and the rest of the said dues and rights, is to be
dedicated to the encouragement of the Protestanl religion In
the above recited quotation, there is a chasm: the words " the
restof" being artfully omitted, to give the passage some una n-
ing which i1 hasnotin itself. With this amendment, the sense
must be, thai his Majesty might appropriate what portion of the
customary revenues of the Romish clergy he should think pro-
pel-, to the support and maintenance of Protestant churches.
But, according to the real words of the Act, he can only devote
"the rest," or remainder, of such revenues to that purpose;
which, as I Lave already shown, is nothing. So that the seem-
ing provision in favor of the Protestant religion, is entirely ver-
bal and delusory. Excellent must be the encouragement it will
derive from this source. But this is not all. Had there been
really provision made, to be applied at the discretion of his
M ijesty, I should still consider this Act as an atrocious infraction
on the rights of Englishmen, in a point of the most delicate and

momentous concern. No Protestant Englishman would consent
to let the five exercise of his religion depend upon the mere
pleasure of any man, however great or exalted. The privilege
of worshipping the Deity, in the manner his conscience dictates,
which is one of the dearest he enjoys, must, in that case, be
rendered insecure and precarious. Vet this is the unhappy sit-
uation to which the Protestant inhabitants of Canada are now
reduced.

The will of the king must give law to their consciences. It
is in his power to keep them for ever dispossessed of all religious
immunities; and there is too much reason to apprehend, that the

same motives which instigated the A.ct, would induce him to
give them as little future encouragement as possible.

I imagine it will clearly appear, from what has been oifen-d,
that the Roman Catholic religion, instead of being tolerated,

stipulated by the Treaty of Peace, is established by the late Act;

136 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

and that the Protestant religion has been left entirely destitute
and unbefriended in Canada. But if there should be any who
think that the indulgence granted, does not extend to a perfect
establishment; and that it may be justified by the terms of the
treaty, and the subsequent conduct of the Canadians ; and if
they should also be at a loss to perceive the dangerous nature of
the Act, with respect to the other colonies ; I would beg their
further attention to the following considerations.

However justifiable this Act may be, in relation to the pro-
vince of Quebec, with its ancient limits, it cannot be defended
by the least plausible pretext, when it is considered as annexing
such a boundless extent of new territory to the old.

If a free form of government had " been found by experi-
ence to be inapj)licable to the state and circumstances of the pro-
vince;" and if "a toleration less generous, although it might
have fulfilled the letter of the articles of the treaty, would not
have answered the expectations of the Canadians, nor have left
upon their minds favorable impressions of British justice and
honor ;" if these reasons be admitted as true, and allowed their
greatest weight, they only prove that it might be just and
politic to place the province of Quebec, alone, with its former
boundaries, in the circumstances of civil and religious govern-
ment which are established by this Act. But when it is de-
manded, Why it has also added the immense tract of country
that surrounds all these colonies, to that province, and has placed
the whole under the same exceptionable institutions, both civil
and religious ? — the advocates for administration must be con-
founded and silent.

This Act developes the dark designs of the ministry more
fully than any thing they have done ; and shows that they have
formed a systematic project of absolute power.

The present policy of it is evidently this. By giving a legal
sanction to the accustomed dues of the priests, it was intended
to interest them in behalf of the administration ; and by means
of the dominion they possessed over the minds of the laity>
together with the appearance of good will towards their religion,
to prevent any dissatisfaction which might arise from the loss of

jEt. 18.] QUEBEC BILL. 187

their civil rights; and to propitiate diem tothegreal pnrpo
in contemplation ; first, the subjugation of the colonies; and after-
wards, that of Greal Britain itself It was necessary to throw
out some such lure to reconcile them to the exactions of that

power which has been communicated to the Kin.1/, and which

the emergency of the times may require in a very extensive
degree.

The future policy of it demands particular attention, 'i
nature of its civil government will hereafter pu1 a Btop to emigra-
tions from other parts of the British dominions thither, and from
all other free countries. The pre-eminen1 advantages secured
to the Roman Catholic religion, will discourage all Protestant
settlers, of whatever nation; and on these accounts, the province
will be Bettled and inhabited by none but Papists. If lenity
and moderation are observed in administering the laws; the
natural advantages of this fertile infant country, united to the
indulgence given to their religion, will attract droves of emi-
grant- from all the Roman Catholic States in Europe: and these
colonies, in time, will find themselves encompassed with innu-
merable hosts of neighbors, disaffected to them, both because of
difference in religion and government. How dangerous their
situation would be, let every man of common sense judge.

What can speak in plainer language, the corruption of the
British Parliament than this Act, which invests the King with
absolute power over a little world (if I maybe allowed the ex-
pression), and makes such ample provision for the Popish reli-
gion, and leaves the Protestant in such a dependent, disadvanta-
geous situation ; that he is like to have no other subjects in this
part of his domain, than Roman Catholics, who, by reason of
their implicit devotion to their priests, and the superlative reve-
rence they bear those who countenance and favor their religion,
will be the voluntary instruments of ambition, and will be ready,
at all times, to second the oppressive designs of administration
againsl the other parts of the empire.

Hence, while our ears are stunned with the dismal Bounds
New England's Republicanism, bigotry, and intolerance; it be-
hooves us to be upon OUT guard, against the deceitful wiles ol

138 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 18.

those who would persuade us, that we have nothing to fear from
the operation of the Quebec Act. We should consider it as
bemg replete with danger to ourselves, and as threatening ruin
to our posterity. Let us not, therefore, suffer ourselves to be
terrified at the prospect of an imaginary and fictitious Scylla;
and, by that means, be led blindfold into a real and destructive
Charybdis.

jEt. 91.]

RKOlUJANIZATlo.X < >F THE ARMY.

January 28. 1778.*

The numerous defects in our present military establishment,
rendering many reformations and many new arrangements abso-
lutely necessary, and (Vngivss having been pleased to appoint
you a committee, in concert with me, to make and recommend
such as shall appear eligible, in pursuance of the various objects
expressed in the resolution, for that purpose ; I have, in the
following sheets, briefly delivered my sentiments upon such of
them as appeared to me most essential, so far as observation has
suggested and leisure permitted. These are submitted to con-
sideration, and I shall be happy, if they are found conducive to
remedying the evils and inconveniences we are now subject to,
and putting the army upon a more respectable footing. Some-
thing must be done; important alterations must be made;
necessity requires that our resources should be enlarged and
our system im] >roved, for without it, if the dissolution of the
army should not be the consequence, at least its operations must
be feeble, languid, and ineffectual.

As I consider a proper and satisfactory provision for officers,
as the basis of every other arrangement and regulation neces-
sary to be made, since without officers no army can exist; and
unless some measures be devised to place those officers in a
more desirable condition, few of them would be able, if willing,

* This important communication was addressed by Washington tothecom-
mittee of Congress, in camp at Valley Forge. It is printed from two Incomplete
drafts in the handwriting of Hamilton. The copy is not found among the

archi

140 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr.21.

to continue in it, I shall begin with a few reflections tendinc
to prove the necessity of °

A Half-pay and Pensionary Establishment.

A small knowledge of human nature will convince us, that
with far the greatest part of mankind, interest is the govern-
ing principle, and that almost every man is more or less under
its influence. Motives of public virtue may, for a time or in
particular instances, actuate men to the observance of a con-
duct purely disinterested, but they are not sufficient of them-
selves to produce a persevering conformity to the refined dic-
tates of social duty. Few men are capable of making a con-
tjnual sacrifice of all views of private interest or advantage to
the common good. It is in vain to exclaim against the deprav, tv
of human nature on this account, the fact is so, the experW
of every age and nation has proved it, and we must in a Teat

tzz^szz not bu,lt m the "t!- «■ °f

as ^eJt,them eSeTIiM in *e American officers as well

fte ft f <? men' A* the commencement of the dispute in
the first effusions of their 7pnl „,„l i„ i • , 0iJule> Iu

be onlv f»m„ », ' Poking upon the service to

be on y temporary, they entered into it, without paying any re-

furti f Tary ,°r Sdflsh considerations. But, finding its
itt doft6 mU°h ^J than ** at *- -pected, ancft

-do nVwffh ™tS; th67 haTC ^^ abated i *eir
unto ^IH ^ m entoe disindination to ^ service,
unaer its present circumstances, has taken place To this in ,„

» r be Tibed the ^ -^- "4

to SK 1 1 the m°re ire^Uent ™P0rtunities for permission
te resign, and from some officers of the greatest merit To thi»

wfiSX^ f aPfy- lMttat- ^-Xct of dut
which pervade all ranks, and which will necessarily continue and

jEt. 21.] ARMV REORGANIZATION. 1 -H

increase, while an officer, instead of gaining, is impoverished by
his commission, and conceives he is conferring, no1 receiving; a
favor in holding it There can be no tie nponmen p< ing
such sentiments, nor ran we adopt any method to oblige tl.
to a punctual discharge of their duty, who are indifferenl aboul
their continuance in the service, and are often seeking a prel
todisengage themselves from it. Punishment, in this case, will
be unavailing; bu1 when an officer's commission is made valu-
able to him, and he tears to lose it, thru may you exact obedi-
ence from him.

It is not indeed consistent with reason or justice, to expect,
that one set of men should make a sacrifice of property, domestic
ease and happiness, encounter the rigors of the field, the perils
and vicissitudes of war, to obtain those blessings which every
citizen will enjoy in common with them, without some adequate
compensation.

It must also be a comfortless reflect ion to any man, that,
after he may have contributed to the securing the lights of his
country at the risk of his life and the ruiu of his fortune, there

dd be no provision, to prevent himself and family, from sink-
ing into indigence and wretchedness. 1 urge these sentiments
with the greater freedom, because I cannot, and shall not re-
ceive the smallest benefit from the establishment, and have no
other inducement for proposing it. than a full conviction of its

Utility and propriety.

* * * *

Of completion the Regiments and altering their establishment

rf he necessity of the first, in the most expeditious manner
possible, is too self-evident to need illustrations or proof; and I
shall, therefore, only beg leave to offer Borne reflections on the
mode. Voluntary enlistments seem to be totally out of the
question; all the allurements of the most exorbitant bounties,
and every other inducement that could be thought of, have I

tried in vain, and seem to have had little other effeel than to

increase the rapacity and raise the demands of those to whom
they were held out. We may fairly infer that the country hafl

142 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [£2t. 21.

been already pretty well drained of that class of men whose
tempers, attachments, and circumstances disposed them to enter
permanently, or for a length of time, into the army; and that
the residue of such men, who, from different motives, have kept
out of the army, if collected, would not augment our general
strength m any proportion to what they require. If experience
has demonstrated that little more can be done by voluntary en
listments, some other mode must be concerted, and no other pre-
sents itself than that of filling the regiments by drafts from the
militia. This is a disagreeable alternative, but it is an unavoida-
ble one.

' As drafting for the war, or for a term of years, would pro-
bably be disgusting and dangerous, perhaps impracticable, I
would propose an annual draft of men, without officers, to serve
till the first day of January in each year. That on or before the
first day of October preceding, these drafted men should be
called upon to re-enlist for the succeeding year ; and as an incite-
ment to doing it, those being much better and less expensive

fflrecf VhT'8' ' Wj °f tW6ntj-fiVe d°1IarS ^ ^
ofieied. That upon ascertaining at this period the number of

men willing to re-engage, exact returns should be made to Con-
gress of the deficiency in each regiment and transmitted by them
to he respective States, in order that they may have their sev-
eral quotas .immediately furnished and sent on to camp, for the

™ ;ant;nSUmg W " " * **<* * « «« *» *«

This method, though not so good as that of obtaining men for

we shtli T T' tHe ^ °Ur <*™**»™» -m allow; and as
we shall always have an established corps of experienced offi-

Sk ofTo answei tolerablj welL Tt is the ^y ™*° i -

I ^P r si ct°o? " ""I battali°nS m time' ** Pr0mises *"
ec toftl t°f SUTS; the accomPlis^entof which is an ob-

2!lortlT^Tnce] and ft has this advant^> ** the

mind of the people being once reconciled to the experiment it
would prove a source of continual supplies hereafter" '

recede atton ? T T"' *""** GOt' ™ the ^ ^ance,
receive any bounty from the public; which being solemnly en-

jEt. 21.] ARMY REORGANIZATION. L48

joined upon each State, and a stop put to the militia substitution
laws, would probably be attended with very happy conse-
quences.

A number of Idle mercenary fellows would be thrown oul of
employment, precluded from their excessive wa substitutes

for a few weeks or months, and constrained to enlisl in the Con-
tinental army. In Bpeaking of abolishing the militia substitution
laws, it is not meant to hinder a person who might be drafted in
the annual allotments from procuring a substitute in his stead,
himself inconsequence being excused. This indulgence would
be admissible, and, considering all things, necessary, as there are
many individuals whose dispositions and private affairs would
make them inveoneileahly averse from giving their personal
services for SO long a duration, and with whom it would be im-
politie to use compulsion. The allowance of substitution upon
a smaller scale, in the occasional coming out of the militia for a
few weeks, a month or two, is the thing meant to be reprobated.
It is highly productive of the double disadvantage of preventing

the growth of the army and depreciating our currency.

* * *

In the new establishmenl of a Regiment, as apparent incon-
veniences result from the enemy's having no full Colonels in
their army, distinctly such, to exchange with ours in case of
captivity, 1 would propose that our battalions should be com-
manded by Lieutenant-Colonels commandant, with the pay of
1 olonel, and consisl of the following officers and men: — 1 Lieu-
tenant-Colonel commandant; 1 Lieutenant-Colonel : 1 Major; 9
Captains; '.'Lieutenants; \) Ensigns; an Adjutant, Quarter-.M. -

ter, Pay-Master, Sergeant, Drum and Fife Major, 27 Sergeants,
18 Drums and Fifes, and 504 rank and file.

These I would propose to have divided into eight companies,
and that a Captain, Lieutenant, Ensign, 3 S tnts, 2 drums
and fifes and 56 rank and file be selected from the whole to com-
pose a company of Light [nfantry. That the Infantry from each
brigade be commanded by a field officer belonging to it; it' offi-
cers, by the reduction of corps and otherwise unprovided for,
are not appointed to these commands — a mode preferable to that

144 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 21.

of drafting from the brigades, as a means of doing the officers
justice, and because the brigades must miss the field officers
taken from them, for this jmrpose, and that the whole be under
the command of General officers of the line, chosen by the Com-
mander-in-Chief. This body would compose the flying army
and in conjunction with a body of horse become extremely for-
midable and useful.

The benefits arising from a superiority of horse are obvious
to those who have experienced them. Independent of such as
you may derive from it in the field of battle, it enables you very
materially to control the inferior and subordinate motions of
an enemy — to impede their knowledge of what you are doing ;
while it gives you every advantage of superior intelligence, and
consequently facilitates your enterprise against them and ob-
structs theirs against you. In a defensive war, as in our case, it
is peculiarly desirable, because it affords great protection to the
country, and is a barrier to those inroads and depredations upon
the inhabitants, which are inevitable when the superiority lies
on the side of the invaders. The enemy, fully sensible of the
advantages, are taking all the pains in their power to acquire an
ascendency in this respect, to defeat which, I would propose an
augmentation of the cavalry, by adding a Lieutenant, a Sergeant,
Corporal, and privates to each troop. The establishment will
then be as follows:— 1 Colonel; 1 Lieutenant-Colonel; 1 Major;
6 Captains; 12 Lieutenants; 6 Cornets; 1 Adjutant; 1 Quar-
ter-Master ; 1 Saddler ; 6 Farriers ; 6 Quarter-Master Sergeants ;
Sergeants; Corporals; Trumpeters; Privates; all as
usual except 6 additional Lieutenants.

There are, and will continue, four regiments of Cavalry,
which, composing a brigade, will require a Brigadier, Brigade-
Major, Quarter-Master, Commissary and Forage-Master, as usual.

The men for this service can easily be gotten ; the providing
horses and accoutrements will be found to suffer some difficulty,
yet will not be impracticable. The procuring horses would be
undertaken by judicious officers, from each regiment, well skilled
in them, and conducted in such a manner as to occasion no inter-
ference with each other. Let Sheldon's purchases be confined to

JEt.2\.\ ARMY reorganization. 145

the eastward of the North River; Rfoylan's between the North
River and the Susquehanna; Baylor's between Susquehanna
and James River; and Bland's to the southward of that. ]
Dumber of horses purchased by each, ought to be determii
and an average price limited, disclosed only to the purcha
with a strict injunction to conceal it as much as possible; be-
cause, if once generally known, sellers would take advantage of
it, and pari \\ ith i e under the limitation.

The accoutrements ought to be provided in the same dis-
tricts, and by the same persons, '"it as some of these districts
abound more in manufactures than others, all thai can be en-
gaged in each, in a certain stipulated time, oughl to be secured,
in order thai the overplus in one part, may supply the deficiency
in another. And as these articles may be imported cheaper and

■r in quality, than they can 1"' made here, I would ;i<1\
that a1 leasl fifteen hundred sets may be sent for to France,
with directions to divide them into small parcels, and embark
them in differenl vessi Is, that we may have a probability of {
ting is1 a part, and no1 be in danger of sustaining a total

and disappointment, by adventuring the whole in one bottom.

( ' the . I rrangt wn nt of the . 1 rmy.

The establishmenl of a battalion being fixed under the last
head, it remains to ascertain the number of battalions, in order
to form a proper arrangement. The number of battalions now
in the field, from each State, stands thus: — New Hampshir •
Massachusetts L5, Rhode [sland 2, Connecticut 8, New-Yorls 1.
New Jersey 4, Pennsylvania L2, Col. W. Stewart's 1, Delaware 1.
Maryland 7, Virginia L5, one State do. 1. Carolina 9, German
battalion 1, Hazen's regimenl 1, additional ami ['arts IS. — Total,
97.

]>v the foregoing list, it appears, thai in regiments and parts

of regiments there are ninety-seven now ill the field; the state "t'
them requires explanation.

< hit of nine from North Carolina, by a return of the -"1 1st ult.,

only 572, rank' and file, are lit for duty. These, with seventy-
one sick present, and 137 on command, make 780, rank

B 10

146 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 21.

file, which I suppose may be produced. The total number, rank
and file, in the nine regiments, is 1079 ; the difference is ac-
counted for in sick, absent, and on furlough ; which is the only
way, I am apprehensive, they ever will be accounted for. From
this defective state of them, I should think it advisable, to throw
the rank and file of the nine regiments into two (they have
already been reduced to three), and to send the supernumerary
officers back to the State, to collect such men, as on various pre-
tences were left behind, and deserters. And aided by the whole
efficiency of the State, voluntary enlistments, being, as I said
before, out of the question ; to exert their endeavors towards
completing the seven other regiments, or such of them as Con-
gress shall direct. These new raised corps may either join this
army, or aid South Carolina or Virginia, as circumstances shall
point out.

I am the more induced to recommend this measure from the
possibility of the enemy's attempting a more Southern expedition
the next campaign. This they may do, in order to gain posses-
sion of the capital of another State, which will give reputation
to their arms in Europe, distress our trade, and abridge our sup-
plies ; at the same time, will enable Administration, in another
instance, to avail themselves of the illusory idea, they endeavor
to hold up to the nation — to keep its hopes alive, and extract
fresh contributions — that every State, whose capital is possessed,
is conquered.

Virginia, I understand, though not from any direct authority,
has resolved to draft towards the completion of her battalions ;
and as this mode seems to be the only one calculated to answer
the end, it is to be hoped she will be able to furnish her full
complement of fifteen, including the State regiment. What
plan Maryland has fallen upon, or may adopt, to fill her bat-
talions I know not, but as the powers of government are with
her in full vigor, and the abilities of the State entirely adequate,
I think her original quota ought to be depended upon. Dela-
ware must, undoubtedly, contribute one battalion ; no change
having happened since that portion was assigned her, sufficient
to afford a plea for reducing it. In behalf of Pennsylvania, much

jEt.31.] ARMY REORGANIZATION. 117

may be said; the exhausted Btate of her regiments; loss of her
capital, and intestine divisions, ever destructive to the energn

ernment, may perhaps incapacitate her from completing her
thirteen regiments now on foot. [ suppose the number should

In-. Cor tlir present, diminished to eight, and the State should
exert herself to till them in the first place. When this shall be
accomplished, if her resources appear equal to any further effi
slif may proceed tn raising the remaining five. Jersey, New-
York, Connecticut, Rhode [slant, Massachusetts, ami New-
Hampshire, are fully oompetenl to the quotas respectively re-
quired of them, and no abatemenl seems necessary with respect
to either. We have reason to hope their exertions will keep
pace with their abilities, and thai they will take decisive mea-
sures to semi their several proportions into the field. I am at a
loss what to propose concerning the German battalion ; Hazen's
regiment, and the sixteen additionals. Appertaining to no par-
ticular State or States, they will have no chance of being filled
by drafts, and as little by any other means. They must either
remain weak and imperfed corps; be adopted by the States, or
incorporated into each other, and then, if possible, 1"" recruited.
The first, upon every principle, oughl no1 to be the case, an
the second would not be alto-ether eligible, from the difficulty
of apportioning them without dividing and subdividing the
regiments; the third seems to be the expedient to which we
must have recourse. Let Maryland take the German batta!
wholly, as one of her eight, for she already claims a part of it;
and then lei the sixteen additionals, none of which are strong
some extremely weak, and others only partly organized, be
thrown into nine. There is this number of them, which, com-
paratively speaking, are tolerably respectable, and have under-
gone a good deal of hard service in the course of the campaign.
These, niter having received the men out of the reduced corps,
licensed, though a barren experiment, ought to try what can In-
done by voluntary enlistments, throughout the Continent at

large. Hazen's regimenl migh.1 be added to them, and united
in the same privilege.

[f these propositions are approved the whole numl bat-

148 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 21.

talions on the establishment will be eighty, and if complete, the
total amount of them 40,320 rank and file. Upon this number
of battalions, I shall make my arrangements. Whether full or
not they will require to be thrown into brigades and {desunt.)

Of Auditors of Accounts.

The want of such an institution has been much felt, and I am
happy it is at length adopted. The sooner the gentlemen ap-
pointed enter upon the execution of their office the better, as
much necessary business wants their regulating hand. The pub-
lic has sustained a loss of many thousands, which might have
been prevented, by the negligence and death of numberless
officers.

Having run through the different distributions of the army
as composed of horse and foot, with all the departments depend-
ent thereon, and offered such remarks as occurred to me on the
several subjects, I proceed to the mention of two departments
commonly considered as separate and distinct — the artillery and
engineering.

Artillery.

This department, if the arrangements and measures concerted
met with proper countenance and support, bids fair to be upon a
very respectable establishment. A plan was agreed upon not
long since between General Knox and nryself for the formation
of four battalions, which was intended to be presented to Con-
gress, that if approved by them it might be recommended to the
several States. It is now submitted to the consideration of the
Committee.

Engineering.
* * * #

Paymaster General.

This department is well conducted, so far as depends upon the
gentleman at the head of it, but the want of money, which too
frequently happens, is extremely injurious to our affairs. It is

At. 91.] ARMY REORGANIZATION. 149

unnecessary to observe, thai besides feeding and clothing a sol«
dier well, nothing is of greater importance than paying him

punctually; and it is perhaps more essential] ir army than

any other, because our men are worse supplied and more no
sit. »us; and the notions of implicit subordination noi being as yet
sufficiently ingrafted among them, they are more apt to reason
npon their rights, and rendered readier to manifesl their Bensibi-
litv of any thing thai has the appearance of injustice to them, in
which lighl they consider their being kept out of their pay aftei
it is due. Nor does the evil end here. The inhabitants who,
through choice, accident, or necessity, have any pecuniary con-
cerns with the army, finding themselves frequently disappointed
in the payments they have a right to expect, grow dissatisfied
and clamorous; the credit of the army, and which is nearly the
same thing, the credit of the Continent is impaired, our supplies
of course are impeded, and the price of every article we want
raised. This circumstance is not among the least causes of the
depreciation of the currency.

A question has arisen whether officers, prisoners with the
enemy, who come out on parole, and are not provided for by
any actual appointments, are entitled to pay during

A Resolve of Congress of the l'.'tli instant provides, that all
continental officers, prisoners with the enemy, either while in
confinement, <»r on parole, bo long as they <•. >)itiiiu«.* officers of the
Dnited States, shall be entitled to their pay and rations, liable to
a deduction for what they may have received in confinemenl ;
and that all flying camp and militia officers should l»c entitled to
the same while in confinemenl only. This resolve exclude- from
pay all officers Liberated on parole, who have not actual appoint-
ments in the continental army. Will it not be deemed a hard-
ship and injustice to such officers, especially to those who me]
from their absence have been neglected in arrangements p oterior

to their capture, as has been too much the CSi

While they continue prisoner.-, whether in possession of the

enemy, or out on parol,', they can have little opportunity oi pro-
secuting any business for a livelihood, and musl he in a distJ

150 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEn. 21.

ful situation, unless they have a private fortune sufficient to
maintain them. It has, in many instances, happened that offi-
cers in captivity have been omitted in promotions made in their
absence, upon which a question has arisen, whether there should
not be a restoration of rank with respect to those who are men
of merit. It seems but reasonable there should.

Several new regulations will, I imagine, be found useful in
the articles of war, which the judge advocate, from his official ex-
perience of the deficiency, can more accurately indicate. One
thing we have suffered much from, is the want of a proper gra-
dation of punishments. The interval between a hundred lashes
and death is too great, and requires to be filled up by some inter-
mediate stages. Capital crimes in the army are frequently com-
muted, particularly in the instance of desertion. Actually to in-
flict capital punishment or death upon every deserter, or other
heinous offender, would incur the imputation of cruelty, and by
the too common exhibition of the example, destroy its efficacy.
On the other hand, to give only a hundred lashes to such crimi-
nals, is rather a burlesque on the crime than a serious cor-
rection, and affords encouragement to obstinacy and to imita-
tion. The courts are often in a manner compelled, by the
enormity of the facts, to pass sentences of death. I am as often
obliged to remit, on account of the number in the same circum-
stances, and let the offenders pass wholly unpunished. This
would be avoided, if there were other punishments short of the
destruction of life, in some degree adequate to the crime. These
the courts would ordain, and I should have executed. Crimes
too are so various in their complexions, that to preserve the
first rule of proportion there cannot be too great a variety in
the * * * *

* * * *

The Position.

Unhappily, we begin to feel intensely some of the disadvan-
tages apprehended from taking the present position of the army,
instead of retiring into more commodious though more remote
winter quarters. The present position of this army, adopted in

jEt. 21.] ARMY REORGANIZATION. 1"»1

compliance with the prevailing current of sentiment among
the people, and the apparent wish and inclination of Congress, is
no1 without , its inconveniences ; no inconsiderable one is a scar-
city of forage— an article no less essential to the well-being of an
army than that of provisions. We have a number of hoi
dying daily foT the want of provender. We are exhausting the
small stock there is on the spot, which will probably be the im-
mediate scene of our operations next campaign. We shall be

likely to sutler still more a1 a more critical time

* * * *

* * * * * geem always to be at variance, and recriminating
the sufferings of the sick upon each other. The regimental sur-
geons complain that, for want o\' medicines and other necessai

they are disabled from giving that assistance in slight and

in the first stages of dangerous complaints, which would serve to
cheek their progress to maturity and save the lives of the sol-
diery. The hospital surgeons reply that their stores are incapa-
ble of bearing the excessive drafts which the profusion and r-M-,--
lessness of the regimental surgeons would make upon them if
indulged in their demands.

I shall not attempt to decide the merits of this dispute, nor
can I conceive any adequate mode of adjusting the difference.
But one would imagine it might not be impossible to fix some
general rule of allowance by which the supplies to the regimental
surgeons might be regulated, and to make them accountable for
the right and economical application of what they received.

At all events, as the accommodation of the sick, and the pre-
servation of men's lives, are the firsl and great objects to be con-
sulted, the regimental surgeons ought not to be destitute of a
reasonable quantity of medicines and other conveniences of which
the sick stand in need. The ill effects resulting from it are many
and glaring.

Either, im",, at every slight indication of disease, must be sent
away to distant hospitals, and the army unnecessarily deprived of
the services of numbers who, if the means were at hand, might
in a day or two be restored; or, they must remain without pro-
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 21.

per assistance, till their disorders confirm themselves, and with
many get beyond the power of cure.

Other ill consequences that have attended the sending so
many men away to a distance from the army, are desertions and
the waste of arms and clothing, for which reason it ought to be
avoided as much as possible. To prevent these evils, as far as
can be done, a field officer is stationed at each hospital to see the
arms of the soldiers carefully deposited at their admission into
it, take care of them in their convalescent state, and send them on
to join their regiments under proper officers, as soon as they are
fit for duty.

Consult General Knox about the 10th Article.

The Adjutant General about the 11th.

* * * * *

Upon the whole, Gentlemen, I doubt not you are fully im-
pressed with the defects of our present military system, and of
the absolute necessity of speedy and decisive measures t'o put it
upon a satisfactory footing. The disagreeable picture I have
given you of the wants and sufferings of the army, and the dis-
contents reigning among the officers, is a just representation of
evils equally melancholy and important; and unless effectual
remedies be applied without loss of time, the most alarming and
ruinous consequences are to be apprehended.

I have the honor to be,

With very great respect,

G. W.

JBr.91.] INSPECTOR (iKNKKAl,. I :,:;

INSPECTOR GENERAL.

Submitted by Wasbington to Congress. Draft by Hamilton. May 6, 1778.

One Inspector General. Sir Deputy Inspectors General.
One Inspector to each Brigade.

The business of the office, to form a system of manual and
manoeuvres, to concert all accessary regulations for the better
government and arrangement of the army in all its departments.

The exercise of the same, of course, to be subordinate to Con-
gress, the Board of War, and the Commander in-Chief But the
[nspector General, with the approbation and authority of the
Commander-in-Chief, to have full power of establishing regula-
tions for manoeuvres, camp discipline, and every thing relating
to the internal police of the army, all kinds of military duty in
the field, In camp, in garrison, or in quarters; to define limits of
the several departments, and adopl such amendments and chai

mail seem requisite. Provided no power be exercised to su-
persede or interfere with any positive institution made, ot rules
and regulations prescribed, by Congress or the Board of War:
and provided, also, that this poweT do not extend to prescribing
ndes for the management of the horse and artillery in any thing
that concerns them as distinct, separate corps, but only so far as
they may be affected under the collective idea of an army, and in
their common connection with it.

The gentlemen in this department to be considered as the in-

ictors and censors of the army in every thing connected with
discipline and arrangement. Tiny areto superintend the execu-
tion of the regulations established, and to sec that a due con-
formity to them is observed throughout the army.

They arc to manoeuvre the army agreeable to the rules laid

154 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [&.&

down under the orders of the Generals commanding. The In-
spector General to exercise the whole under the directions of the
Commander-in-Chief. His deputies, the wings or divisions under
the direction of the Lieutenant or Major General commanding
tnem; and the Inspectors to exercise the brigades under the df
rection of their. Brigadiers.'

The Inspector General to assist the Quartermaster General in
forming all orders of march, the common order of battle in
choosing and arranging encampments, and in fixing guards &c

In action, and on marches, the Inspector General to be' near
he person of the Commander-in-Chief. The immediate assistants
to be distributed to the different wings or divisions of the army
to promote order, and see that all the movements be properly
performed. The Brigade Inspectors to be with their brigades for
the same purposes. ° ™ lul

These outlines of a plau for the office of the Inspector General

armiefb,. 7er "**?"*? dually practised in the European
arm.es, hut they are adapted to our circumstances, confused and

ZKzr department is- and ^ * ~ -S

The person I would propose for Inspector General is the
Baron Steuben. I have had much conversation with this gentle

v2 te met? lm to be We" *"*** fOT the 0ffl- ^e ap-
tarv W r T M a°CUrate knOTrfedge °f every part of mill-
jud^nT a™angem-ts. and 'o be a man" sense and

seiefce in ^ ?*■ HoItzendorf W^r also to be men of

he Inslfo "rP T°n'naUdW0Uld "*> «0od de^^ but

ome me of fn ' reqUire' f°r his i—ediate assistants,

OZZ fo I:: f 0?T ,and "*** *> - Americans!

them-nmLf language and an acquaintance with

cnlls , ,Sem°e aBd men- he ™^ ^ involved in dffl

jE,r.-2\.} INSPECTOR GENERAL. 1 :,5

volutions that would neither be practicable nor palatable, Tl

-tains, or some of them, should be men of extensive abilities,
skilled in the French language, of zeal, activity, and decision.
I have not a suffioienl knowledge of our officers to pointont
those whobesl answer this description; but Eenly, Lee, Barber,
and Scull, occur to me as men who mighl be very useful in this
line- though 1 know not if either of them understand the French

language.

The Brigade Inspectors should be officers drawn from the
Brigade— the besl qualified that ran be found. The Baron
Steuben, if appointed, as ne lias held high rank in the Prussian
serviee, and has been Lieutenant General in the service of the
M rgrave de Baden, cannot with propriety accept of less rank
than that ,.1' Major General.

The deputies Brigade Inspectors should have no increase of
rank, hut precisely the same which they may have held before
their appointment to those offices. Those who are taken from
the line, should preserve their stations in it, and rise in course.

There are two gentlemen out of this army, whom I should
wish to he introduced int.. this department— General Cadwalla-
der and Colonel Fleming. The former is a military genius, of a
decisive and independent spirit, properly impressed with the
necessity of order and discipline, and of sufficient vigor to en-
force it II-' would soon perfect himself in the practical part,
and he tit to succeed to the first place in the department Colonel
Fleming is an excellenl disciplinarian, and from long practice in
the British army, has axjquired the necessary knowledge.

156 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 21.

PUBLIUS.

Popghkeepsie, October 19, 1778

Me. Holt :

There are abuses in the State, which demand an immediate
remedy. Important political characters must be brought upon
the stage, and animadverted upon with freedom. The opinion
I have of the independence of your spirit, convinces me you
will ever be a faithful guardian of the liberty of the press, and
determine me to commit to you the publication of a series of
letters, which will give you an opportunity of exemplifying it.

The following is by way of prelude. You may depend I
shall always preserve the decency and respect, due either to the
government of the United States, or to the government of any
particular State; but I shall not conceive myself bound to use
any extraordinary ceremony with the characters of corrupt
individuals however exalted their stations.

TO THE PRINTER OF THE NEW- YORK JOURNAL.

Sir:

While every method is taken to bring to justice those men
whose principles and practices have been hostile to the present
revolution; it is to be lamented that the conduct of another
class, equally criminal, and, if possible, more mischievous, has
hitherto passed with impunity, and almost without notice. I
mean that tribe who, taking advantage of the times, have carried

hnT f °nTlj "^ eXt°rtion to an excess> ^^ scarcely
irnno it " T, ' Emboldened hy ^ access of progressive
impositions, it has extended to all the necessaries of life The
exorbitant price of every article, and the depreciation upon our

JEt.21.) publius. 1-*~

currency, are evils derived essentially from this sourcte. When
avarice takes the lead in a State, it is commonly the forerun
0f its fall. How shocking is it todiscover among ourselves, even
at this early period, the strongest Bymptoms of this fatal d

Tlli.IV .;,,. meD jn ;,ii countries, the businesfi of whose lives it
is to mi.-' themselves above indigence by every little an in their
power. When these men are observed to be influenced by the
spirit I bave mentioned, it is nothing more than might be <
!„,.,,,!, and ran onlj excite contempt When others, who hi
characters to support, and credil enough in the world to satisfy
., moderate appetite for wealth, in an honorable way. are found
to be actuated by the same spirit, our contempl is mixed with
indignation. Bu1 when a man. appointed to be the guardian of
the State, and the depositary of the happiness and morals of the
people, foi-vtl'ul of the solemn relation in which he stands,
d( scends to the dishonest artifices of a mercantile projector, and
sacrifices his conscience and histrusl topecuniaryn -: there

i, qo strain of abhorrence of which the human mind is capable,

no punishment, the \rengeai of the people ran inflict, which

may not be applied to him with justice.

If it should have happened, that a member of Cong
has been this degenerate character, and has been known to turn
the kn --e of secrets, to which his office gave hin as, to

the purposes of private profit, by employing emissaries to engross
an article ofimmediate necessity to the public servic tght

to feel the utmost rigor of puhhc resentment, and be detested as
a traitor of the worst and most dangerous kind.

Pi BI

THE HONORABLE — , 1

1 i • iber 26 I

Sir : ■ • i

The honor of being a li.-r....!':. public gync,is whal

could hardly have aspired to, either from your talents, or I

158 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.'M.

your good qualities. The partiality of your friends has never
given you credit for more than mediocrity in the former ; and
experience has proved, that you are indebted for all your conse-
quence to the reverse of the latter. Had you not struck out a
new line of prostitution for yourself, you might still have re-
mained unnoticed and contemptible— your name scarcely known
beyond the little circle of your electors and clients, and recorded
only in the journals of C ss. But you have now forced your-
self into view, in a light too singular and conspicuous to be over-
looked, and have acquired an undisputed title to be immortalized
in infamy. I admire the boldness of your genius, and confess
you have exceeded expectation. Though from your first appear-
ance m the world, you gave the happiest presages of your future
life, and the plainest marks of your being unfettered by any of
those nice scruples, from which men of principle find so much
inconvenience ; yet your disposition was not understood in its
tall extent. You were thought to possess a degree of discretion
and natural timidity, which would restrain you from any hazard-
ous extremes You have the merit both of contradicting this
opinion, and discovering, that notwithstanding our youth and
inexperience as a nation, we begin to emulate the most veteran
and accomplished states in the art of corruption. You have
shown that America can already boast, at least one public char-

ct pCdut " ^ thQ **"* °f ^ °r ™ *«

Were your associates in power of a congenial temper with

yourself, you might hope, that your address and dexter ty upon

of yo7;Sn' W°U d ^^ a ^ ^ ^-tageous impLsio"
of your abilities, and recommend you to employment in some

"so7;::tztiatio vhich might affbrd ^ <*«* <*£££

public JS J°Ur aV°nte inclinatio»> ■* the expense of the

anA^ZTUn"T f°r thG repUtati°n °f Go™r Huston,

2t %s^as£% rojal rter' that he ~

tion. If he had known you, and had thought your services

JEt. 21.]

publius. 159

worth purchasing, be mighl have played a bum game, and
avoided the risk of exposing himself to contempl and ridicule.
Ami von, sir, mighl have made your fortune a1 one decisive

stroke.

It is matter of curious inquiry, what could have raised you,
in the firsl instance, and supported you since in your presenl
elevation. 1 never knew a Bingle man, bu1 was ready to do am-
ple justice to your demerit. The mosi indulgent opinion of the
qualifications of your head and heart, could not offend the
modest delicacy of your ear, or give the Bmallesl cause of exul-
tation to your vanity. It is your lot to have the peculiar privi-
lege of being universally despised. Excluded from all resource
to your abilities or virtues, there is only one way in which 1 can
account for the rank you hold in the political scale There are
seasons in every country, when noise ami impudence pass cur-
rent for worth; ami in popular commotions especially, the clam-
ors of interested and factious men are often mistaken for patriot-
ism. Yon prudently took advantage of the commencement of
the contest, to ingratiate yourself in the favor of the people, and
gain an ascendant in their confidence by appearing a zealous
srtor of their rights. No man will suspecl you of the folly of
public spirit— a heart notoriously selfish, exempts you from any
charge of this nature— and obliges us to resolve the part you
took, into opposite principles. A desire of popularity, and a
rivalship with the ministry will best explain them. Their at-
tempt to confine the sale of ;, lucrative article of commerce to
the Bast India Company, must have been more unpardonable in
the sight of a monopolist, than the most daring attack upon the
public liberty. There is a vulgar maxim which has a pointed
emphasis in your case, and has mad.' many notable patriots in
this dispute.

It sometimes happens that a temporary Capri »f the people

leads them to make choice of nan, whom they neither love nor
respect; and that they afterwards, from an indolent and me-
chanical habit, natural to the human mind, continue their confi-
dence and support merely because they had once cm;!.
them. I cannot persuade myself, that your influence rests upon

160 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 21.

a better foundation, and I think the finishing touch you have
given to the profligacy of your character, must rouse the recol-
lection of the people, and force them to strip you of a dignity
which sets so awkwardly upon you, and consign you to°that
disgrace which is due to a scandalous perversion of your trust
When you resolved to avail yourself of the extraordinary de-
mand for the article of flour, which the wants of the French
fleet must produce, and which your official situation early im-
pressed on your attention— to form connections for monopoliz-
ing that article, and raising the price upon the public more
than one hundred per cent.— when by your intrigues and studied

delays, you protracted the determination of the C tt— e of

C ss on tne proposals made by Mr. W— sw— th, C— ss— y

G n 1 for procuring the necessary supplies for 'the public

use— to give your agents time to complete their purchases— I
say when you were doing all this, and engaging in a traffic
infamous m itself, repugnant to your station, and ruinous
to your country ; did you pause and allow yourself a moment's
reflection on the consequences? Were you infatuated enough
to imagine you would be able to conceal the part you were act-
ing / Or had you conceived a thorough contempt of reputation
and a total indifference to the opinion of the world ? Enveloped
m the promised gratifications of your avarice, you probably for-
got to consult your understanding, and lost sight of every con-
sideration that ought to have regulated the man, the citizen, the
statesman. '

I am aware, that you could never have done what you hare
«i bout first obtaining a noble victory over every sentiment of
honor and generosity. You have therefore nothing to fear from
the reproaches of own mini Your insens°

to extT T But tUlS ale ar^meuts P°™^ enough
You are „rq TV™ *""" ^^ " Call™S » JO™-

rlspecTits dT' 6 ,WOTld' *' 70Ur SelHOTe forees J°* *

bZ the si TmS' "^ 70Ur Utm°St °redit witt i4. ^ ™*
fateyou Z1J0UV reCCnt enOTmitieS' OT ™« ^ou from the

jfii. 91.] PUBLIUS. 161

THE HONORABLE , ESQ.

Nov. 16, 1778.

Sib:

It may appear Btrange, that you should be made a second
time the principal figure of a piece intended for the public eye.
But a character, insignificanl in every other respect, may become
interesting from the numher and magnitude of its vices. In this
view, Y"ii have a right to tin' firsl marks of distinction, ami I
regrel that 1 feel any reluctance to render you the liberal tribute
you deserve. Bui I reverence humanity, and would not wish to
pour a blush upon the checks of its advocates. Were I inclined
to make a satire upon the species, I would attempt a faithful de-
scription of your heart. It is hard to conceive, in theory, one of
more finished depravity. There are some men. whose vices are
blended with qualities thai casl a lustre upon them, and force us
to admire while we detest! Yours are pure and unmixed, with-
out a single solitary excellence even to serve for contrast and
variety.

The defects, however, of your private character, shall |
untouched. This is a field in which your personal enemies may
expatiate with pleasure. 1 find it enough to consider you in a
public capacity.

I'he station of a member of C as, is the most illustrious

and important of any 1 am able, to conceive, lie is to be re-
garded not only as a legislator, hut as a founder of an empire.
A man of virtue and ability, dignified with so precious a trust,
would rejoice that fortune had given him birth at a time, and
placed him in circumstances, so favorable for promoting human
happiness. He would esteem it not more the duty than the pri-
vilege and ornament of his office to do good to all mankind.
From this commanding eminence he would look down with con-
tempt upon every mean or interested pursuit.

To form useful alliances abroad to establish a wise govern*

meiit a1 home to improve the internal resources and limine.

the nation would be the generous objects of his fare, lie

B 11

162 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 21.

would not allow his attention to be diverted from these to in-
trigue for personal connections, to confirm his own influence;
nor would be able to reconcile it, either to the delicacy of his
honor, or to the dignity of his pride, to confound in the same
person the representative of the commonwealth, and the little
member of a trading company. Anxious for the permanent
power and prosperity of the State, he would labor to perpetuate
the union and harmony of the several parts. He would not
meanly court a temporary importance, by patronizing the nar-
row views of local interest, or by encouraging dissensions either

among the people or in C ss. In council, or debate, he

would discover the candor of a statesman, zealous for truth ; and
the integrity of a patriot, studious of the public welfare ; not
the cavilling petulance of an attorney, contending for the triumph
of an opinion, nor the perverse duplicity of a partisan, devoted
to the service of a cabal. Despising the affectation of superior
wisdom, he would prove the extent of his capacity by foreseeing
evils, and contriving expedients to prevent or remedy them.
He would not expose the weak sides of the States, to find an op-
portunity of displaying his own discernment, by magnifying the
follies and mistakes of others. In his transactions with indivi-
duals, whether foreigners or countrymen, his conduct would be
guided by the sincerity of a man, and the politeness of a gentle-
man ; not by the temporizing flexibility of a courtier, nor the
fawning complaisance of a sycophant.

You will not be at a loss, sir, in what part of this picture to
look for your own resemblance ; nor have I the least apprehen-
sion that you will mistake it on the affirmative side. The happy
indifference with which you view those qualities most esteemed
for their usefulness to society, will preserve you from the possibi-
lity of an illusion of this kind. Content with the humble merit
of possessing qualities useful only to yourself, you will contem-
plate your own image on the opposite side, with all the satisfac-
tion of conscious deformity.

It frequently happens that the excess of one selfish passion
either defeats its own end, or counteracts another. This, if I am
not mistaken, is your case. The love of money and the love of

At. 31.] PUBLIUS. ,,;:'

it

-•

power are the predominating ingredients of your mind; cunnin
the characteristic of vout understanding. This has hitherto car-
ried you successfully through life, and has alone raised yon to
the exterior consideration yon enjoy. The Datura! consequence
0f BUccesa is temerity. It 1ms now proceeded one step too far,
;m(1 precipitated yon into measures from the consequence of
whirl, you will not easily extricate yourself. Four avarice will
be fatal to your ambition. 1 have too good an opinion of the
3e and spirit, to say nothing of the virtue of your countrymen,
to believe they will permil you any longer to abuse their confi-
dence, or trample upon their honor. Admirably fitted, m many
respects, for the meridian of St. James, you might there make the
Worthy representative of a venal borough, but you ought not to
be Buffered to continue to sully the majesty of the people In an

American C ss.

It is a mark of comparison, to which you arc not entitled, to
advise you by a timely and voluntary retreat, to avoid the igno-
miny of a formal dismission. Your career has held out as
long as you could have hoped, h is time you should cease to
personate the fictitious character you have assumed, and appear
what you really are. Lav aside the mask of patriotism, and as-
sert your station among the honorable tribe of speculators and
projectors. Cultivate a close alliance with your and

Vl)Ur the accomplices and instruments of your guilt, and

console yourself for the advantage you have lost, by indulging
your ffeniua without restraint in all the forms and varieties of

fashionable peculation.

Fublius.

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J3t. 22.

MILITARY REMARKS AND QUERIES.

Submitted by Washington to Committee in Camp. Draft by Hamilton, Jan. 8, 1779.

The first and great object is to recruit the army
1st. By enlisting all the men now in it during the war, who are
Ste^^^ * ** ^P~ houn^

to ££^^S &«» — nded

The nest object is, to fix some ideas respecting the Northern
preparatory concerning which, the ComLnderin-Chief now
finds h.mself m . dilcmma. and operations ofthl

S 7' The following questions, on which the foregoino-

\ teP™5 ,°U8ht '° he consid^d and decided. ° °

•md R, it, f6my retaia tneir Present toe at New- York

S * "» - — * • «***»« «*. and ^ns

both these « fiUan0eS 6qUal t0CTent-l Potions for

keef Ponton w '"T^ ™ *" afE™atire- »* *■ -emy
e»rtioPn ^ Z'tl iMg /? T aW °» wMe for<* ■*
dcavor to make Some it0'' "" """"^ °f °» *»*>* en-
settlements by wror'011 "^ Detroit' aad the ^
to object the eLl> ^ °Ur P"P«*>" being for

nonncc P ^ agamSt NiaS™ *» ought to re-

If the first question is answered negatively, and the second

jEt. 33. ] M I L IT A It V R 1 1 MARKS. 16 5

affirmatively, and if it is judged expedient to make such an
attempt, out preparations oughl to have reference principally
thereto, and we must contenl ourselves with a merelj defensive

conduct elsewhere, and should study economy as much as ;
aible. It is in vain to attempl things which are more the objects
of desire than attainment. Every undertaking must 1"-, at least
ought to be, regulated by the state of our finances, the prospect
of our supplies, and the probability of success. Without this,
disappointment, disgrace, and an increase of debt, will ensue
on our part, exultation and renewed bope on that of the enemy.
To determine, therefore, what we can undertake; the state of
the army, the prospect of recruiting it. paying, clothing, and
feeding it, the providing the necessary apparatus for offensive
operations; all these matters ought to be well and maturely
considered. On them every thing must depend ; andhowever
reluctantly we yield, they will compel us to conform to them,
or by attempting impossibilities we shall ruin our affairs.

If the third question is answered affirmatively, which it is
much to !"• feared cannot be done; then eventual preparations

OUffht t>» be made for both. We shall then be best able to act

according to future circumstances; for, though it will be im-
possible to unite both objects in the execution; yet in the event
of the enemy's leaving these States, we should be ready to strike
an important blow lor the effectual security of our frontiers, and
for opening a door to a further progress into Canada.

From the investigation of these points another question may
possibly result.

Will not the situation of our affairs, on account of tin' depre-
ciated condition of our currency; deficiency of bread ; scarcity
of forage; the exhausted state of our resources in the middle
department, and the general distress of the inhabitants ; render
it advisable for the main body of the army to lie quiet in sonic
favorable position for confining, as much as possible, the enemy
to their present posts (adopting at the same time the besl means
in our power to scourge the Indians, and prevent their depreda-
tions), in order to save expenses, avoid new emissions, recruit
our finances, and give a proper tone to our money, formore
vigorous measures hereafter'.''

106 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 22.

In determining a plan of operations for next campaign, much
"will depend on the prospect of European affairs ; what we have
to expect from our friends, what they will expect from us ; and
what the enemy will probably be able to do. These points
should be well weighed and every information concentred to
throw light upon them. But upon the whole, it will be the
safest and most prudent way to suppose the worst and prepare
for it.

It is scarcely necessary to say, that the providing ample sup-
plies of arms, clothes and ordnance stores is essential ; and that
an uncertain dependence on them may not only be hurtful, but
ruinous. Their importance demands that every possible expe-
dient should be without delay adopted towards obtaining these
articles in due season, for the purposes of next campaign.

Heavy cannon for the posts in the Highlands, for battering,
and for vessels, if offensive measures are to be pursued, must be
immediately provided, and in considerable quantity. Large
mortars, with a sufficient apparatus, will also be wanted.

The completing the arrangement of the army, without fur-
ther delay, is a matter of great importance, whatever may be
our plan. The want of this is the source of infinite dissatisfac-
tion to the officers in general, and continual perplexity to the
Commander-in-Chief. The want of Brigadiers is a material
inconvenience, and hath been the cause of much relaxation of
discipline, discontent and loss in several instances.

The Ordnance Department seems to require some important
alterations. General Knox's representation, transmitted to Con-
gress in July or August last, and his letter and memorial of the
- ulto., copy of which is annexed, show that he finds himself
under embarrassments of a disagreeable nature, from the pre-
sent form of it. 1

The Clothing Department appears to be altogether unsettled,
and confused, and requires immediate attention, for the pur^

jEt. 22.] M I L I T A It V REMARKS. 1 ' 1 7

poses both of regular issues to the army, and of saving to the
public. There are too many persons concerned in thai busi-
ness, and acting independenl of each other, to have il well con-
ducted. The army is now greatly deficient in the articles of
blankets and hats, and Bhoes, or soon will be, as these last are
in constant demand. They might, 1 Bhould conceive, I"- con-
tracted for by means of the hides, ami in great abundance.

The Hospital is in some respects, in my judgment, upon an
improper establishment, and might be altered for the better.

I mean that part of it which appoints Subdirectors, Surg is,

etc., for differenl districts, which necessarily must be attended
with one or other of these disadvantages: either thai a com-
petent number must be appointed in eaeh district, to serve the
purposes of the whole army, in ease the theatre of war should
happen to be there; which must be a great mm ry bur-

then to the public; or these gentlemen must be occasionally
removed from one district to another, which is productive of an
interference of authority, and jealousies and disputes v ry injuri-
ous to the service. It appears to me, thai there is no occasion
for allotting those departments which are under one general
director into districts. 'Tistrue, thai wherever there are troops,
there must be surgeons and Hospital stores; but these can be
sent by the Director General, as exigencies may require, and
proportioned to the particular exigency; whereas, by being
made stationary, tiny become inadequate to the duty in one
case, and sinecures in the other.

From the beginning of the war, there has been a constant
disagreement between the Eospital and Regimental Surgeons in
which, more than probably, both have been wrong* Bu1 I can-
not help thinking, if a little more latitude \Veiv granted to the
Regimental Surgeons, under the inspection of the Director
General, or rather Surgeon General of the dying hospital, that
great good would result from it. As far as 1 can judge, much
expense has been inclined, inan\ lives have been lost, and many

desertions occasioned, by removing men from camp, which the
means of taking care of them in their regiments, might have

1G8 • HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 22.

prevented. It often happens, that the seeds of dangerous dis-
orders are sown, by removing the sick at improper times, and in
unfavorable weather, which might be avoided by keeping them
in camp, if they could have the necessary assistance there ; but
which, under the present arrangement, is unavoidable.

The immediate establishment of the Inspectorship on some
definite plan, that the benefits of it may be fully derived towards
the next campaign, is a matter of the utmost importance.

It is also very interesting that the Engineering Department
should be arranged upon some fixed and explicit footing.

The situation of the officers of the army in the present
depreciated state of the paper currency, and the consequent
high prices of every necessary, is so singularly hard, that the
bare mention of their case is sufficient to bring it home to the
attention and feeling of every man of reflection, and will leave
no doubt of the necessity of applying a remedy, the most speedy
and effectual.

Geo. Washington.

INSPECTOR GENERAL.

Report of Committee of Conference with the Commander-in-Chief being the
Plan lor the Department of the Inspectorship. Agreed to in Committee, January
28, 1779. Passed February 18, 1779. Draft by Hamilton.

In Congress. Feb. 18, 1779.
The Committee appointed to confer with the Commander-in-
Chief, to whom was committed a Report from the Board of War
on the Department of Inspector General, having in conference
with the Commander-in-Chief agreed on the foregoing Plan, beg
leave to submit the same to Congress, viz. :

JEt. 89.]

INSPECTOR GENERAL. 1,;''

Plan for the Department of Inspector General.

Resolved. That there shall be an Cnspector General to the
armies of the United States, with the rank of Major General, who
in ;,ii future appointments shall be taken from the line of Major
Generals.

That the duty of the Enspector General shall principally con-
sist in forming a system of regulations for the exercises of the
troops in i!i<- manual, evolutions, and manoeuvres; fortheser-
\ ice of guards and detachments, and for camp and garrison duty.

That the Inspector General and his assistants shall review
the troops at such times and places, and receive such returns for
that purpose, as the Commander-in-Chief; or Commanding Gene-
ral, shall direct At which reviews he or they shall inspect the

number and condition of the mm, their discipline and exercise,

and the Btate of their aims, accoutrements, and clothes, observing
what of these articles have been lost or spoiled since the last
review, and as near as possible by what means, reporting the

same, with the deficiencies and neglects, to the < oiuinanderdu-

t'hict: or the commanding officer of a detachment, and to the
Board of War.

Thai all aew manoeuvres shall he introduced by the Inspector
General, and all old ones performed according to the established
principles under his superintendency. But. he shall not intro-
duce or practise any regulations relative to the objects of his de-
partment, save such as are made and established in manner fol-

following.

All regulations whatsoever to be finally approved and estab-
lished by Congress. Bu1 the exigence of the service requiring it,
a temporary one may from time to time be introduced by the
Inspector General, with the approbation of the Commander-in-
Chief. These regulations to be communicated to the army
through the Adjutanl General, and to be transmitted to the
Board of War with all convenienl dispatch, that being examined
and reported by them to Congress, they may be rejected, altered,
amended, or continued, as Congress shall deem proper.

[That in the mam army, or in any detachment, when eireiim-

170 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 24.

stances require it, there shall be an Assistant Inspector General,
taken from the line of Colonels or Lieutenant Colonels command-
ant, and to continue in the office so long only as the particular
exigence for which he was appointed shall render it necessary.*]

That there be as many Subinspectors as the Commander-in-
Chief, or commanding officer in a detachment, shall, on consi-
deration of the strength and situation of the army, from time to
time deem necessary, to be taken from the line of Lieutenant
Colonels, and to receive their instructions relative to the depart-
ment from the Inspector General.

That there be one Brigade Inspector to each Brigade, who
shall be one of the Majors in the Brigade, and that the office of
Brigade Inspector shall in future be annexed to that of Major of
Brigade. He shall accordingly keep a roster of the battalions of
his brigade ; regulate the details, and take care of the formation
and march of all guards, detachments, &c, from the brigade.

He is to receive the general orders, and communicate them
to the commanding officers of the brigade and regiments, and
through the adjutants to all the officers of the brigade. He is,
so far as concerns his brigade, to inspect the police of the camp,
the discipline, and order of the service. In time of action, he is
to assist in executing the necessary manoeuvres of the brigade,
according to the orders of the brigadier, or officer commanding.
He is to do no duty in the line.

[That each brigadier be allowed an aid-de-camp for the dis-
patch of his orders. That he be taken from the line under the
rank of captain, and hold the same rank as in the line, preserving
his right of promotion as usual. This regulation not to be ex-
tended so as to injure the present brigade majors, who may act
as aid-de-camps to their respective brigadiers with their present
rank, pay, and rations, and with every other privilege as hereto-
fore.] f

That all the officers of the inspectorship, having appoint-

* The General upon the whole thinks this part respecting an Assistant Inspector
General may as well be omitted, as a subinspector may answer the same purpose.

f This article, as it is not properly connected with the inspectorship, had bet-
ter form a separate resolution.

jEt. 23.] mission TO PRANCE. 171

incuts iii the line, shall retain their rights of command, succes-
sion, and promotion, in the same manner as if thej had not as-
sumed the "Dice. But as the duties of this department are Buffi-
cienl to employ their whole time, they are to suspend the exer-
ciae of their respectiye commands, excepl od particular occasions,
when tin- Commander-in-Chief, or commanding officer in a sepa-
rate detachment, may deem it necessary to invest them with
command.

They are to be exempted from all common, camp, and garri-
son <ln! \ , that they may attend the inure carefully to those of the
inspection ; and in time of action they are to be employed in as-
sisting in the execution of the held manoeuvres.

(Clause as to pay stricken out. Pay fixed by resolution of
Congress, of May 5, 1778.)

That the Inspector General, so far as relates to the inspection
of the army, be subject to the order of Congress, the Board of
War, and the Commander-in-Chief only, but the Subinspectors
shall also be subject to the officers commanding the divisions and
brigades to which they are attached on the principles herein
established.

MISSION TO PRANCE.

Instructions by Washington to Laurens, Draft by Hamilton.

"In compliance with your request, I shall commit to writing
the result of our conferences on the present state of American
affairs; in which I have given you my opinion with thai free-
dom and explicitness, which the objects of your commission,

my entire confidence in you, and the exigency of our affairs

demand.

•• Lst. To me it appears evident, that, considering the dilV
population of these States, the consequent difficulty of drawing
together their resources, the composition and temper of a {'art

172 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 23.

of their inhabitants, the want of a sufficient stock of national
wealth, as a basis for revenue, and the almost total extinction
of commerce, the efforts that we have been compelled to make
for carrying on the war, have exceeded the natural abilities of
this country, and, by degrees, brought us to a crisis that makes
the most efficacious and immediate succor from abroad indispen-
sable to our safety.

" 2d. That notwithstanding, from the confusion inseparable
from the revolution ; from our having had governments to
frame, and every species of civil and military institution to
create ; from that inexperience in affairs necessarily incident to
a nation in its commencement, some errors may have been com-
mitted in the administration of our finances, to which a part of
our embarrassments are to be attributed ; yet they are principally
to be ascribed to an essential defect of means, to the want of a
sufficient stock of wealth, as mentioned in the first article, which
continuing to operate, will make it impossible, by any merely
interior exertions, to extricate ourselves from those embarrass-
ments, restore public credit, and furnish the funds requisite for
carrying on the war.

" 3d. That experience has demonstrated it to be impossible
long to support a paper credit, without funds for its redemption ;
that the depreciation of our currency was in the main a necessary
effect of the want of those funds; and that its restoration is im-
possible for the same reason, to which the general diffidence that
has taken place among the people is an additional, and, in the
present state of things, an insuperable obstacle.

"4th. That the mode which for want of money has been
substituted for supplying the army, by assessing a portion of the
productions of the earth, has hitherto been found to be ineffect-
ual ; has frequently left the army to experience the most calam-
itous distress, and from its novelty and incompatibility with
ancient habits is regarded by the people as burthensome and op-
pressive; has excited serious discontents, and in some States
there appear alarming symptoms of opposition. That this mode
has, besides, many particular inconveniences, which contribute
to make it inadequate to our exigencies, and ineligible but as an
auxiliary.

JEt. 23.] mission TO P a AN C E . 1 7 3

"5th. Thai the resource of domestic Loans is inconsiderable;

mse there are, properly speaking, few moneyed men in this
country, and the few there are, can employ their money to do
advantage otherwise ; besides which, the instability of our cur-
rency, and tlir want of funds, have impaired the public credit
Thai from the besl estimates of the annual expense of the war,
and the annual revenues which these States are capable of
producing, there is a Large balance to be made up by public
credit.

-• 6th. Thai the patience of the army, from an almost uninter-
rupted scries of complicated distresses, is now nearly exhausted;
their discontents arc matured to an extremity which has recently
had the most disagreeable consequences, and demonstrates the
absolute necessity of speedy relief. You are too well acquainted
with all their sufferings, for want of clothing, for want of sub-
sistence, tor want of pay.

"7th. That the people begin to be dissatisfied with the pre-
sent system for the support of the war; ami there is cause to
apprehend that evils actually fell in the prosecution of it, may
weaken those sentiments which began it, founded, not on imme-
diate sufferings, but on a speculative apprehension of evils to
arise in future from the deprivation of our liberties. There is
danger that a commercial ami free people, little accustomed to
heavy burdens, pressed by impositions of a new ami odious kind,
may uo1 make a proper allowance for tin' necessity of the con-
juncture, and may imagine they have only exchanged one tyr-
anny for another.

•■ Bth. That from all the foregoing considerations results,
first, the absolute uecessity of an immediate, ample, and effica-
cious succor of money, considerable enough to be a foundation
for permanent arrangements of finance; to restore the public

Credit, and give new life ami activity to our future operations.
Secondly, the vast importance of a decided effort of the allied

arms upon this country the ensuing campaign, to give a fatal
blow to the power of the enemy, and secure the greal obj

the war, — the liberty and independence of these States. With-
out the first, we may make a feeble and expiring efforl the i

174 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 23.

campaign, which would, in all probability, be the period of our
opposition. With it, we should be in a condition to continue
the war as long as the obstinacy of the enemy might require.
The first is essential to the last : both combined, would at once
bring the contest to a glorious issue ; put the objects of the alli-
ance out of the reach of contingencies ; crown the obligations
which America already feels to the magnanimity and generosity
of her allies, and perpetuate the union by those ties of gratitude
and affection, as well as mutual advantage, which alone can ren-
der it solid and indissoluble.

" 9th. That next to a loan of money, a constant naval su-
periority on these coasts, is the object which most interests us.
This would instantly red ace the enemy to a difficult defensive,
and by depriving them of all prospect of extending their acquisi-
tions, would take away the motives for prosecuting the war. In-
deed, it is not easy to conceive, how they could subsist a large
force in this country, if we had the command of the seas to
internrpt the regular transmission of supplies from Europe.
This superiority (with an aid of money) would enable us to con-
vert the operations of the war into a vigorous offensive. I say
nothing of the advantages to our trade, nor how infinitely it
would facilitate our supplies. In short, it seems to be a deciding
point. It appears, too, to be the interest of our allies, abstracted
from the immediate benefits to this country, to transfer the
whole naval war to America. The number of ports friendly to
them and hostile to the British ; the materials this country
affords for repairing the disabled ships ; the large quantities of
provisions towards the subsistence of the fleet; are circum-
stances which would give a palpable advantage to our allies in a
naval contest in these seas.

" That notwithstanding the embarrassments under which we
labor, and the inquietudes prevailing among the people, there is
still a fund of inclination and resources in this country, equal to
great and continued exertions ; provided we have it in our power
to stop the progress of disgust, by changing the present system,
by restoring public credit, and by giving activity to our mea-
sures ; of all which, a powerful succor of money might be the

jEt. 23.] MISSION TO FRANC E. 1 75

basis. The people are dissatisfied; but it is with the feeble and
oppressive mode of conducting the war, not w it h the war itsel£
They are Qot unwilling t<> c< uitrilnite to its support, but they i
unwilling to do it in a way that renders private propert
carious, —a aecessary consequence of the fluctuation of the na-
tional currency, and of the inability of government to perform
its engagements coercively made. A large majority are -till
firmly attached to its independence; abhor a re-union with
Great Britain; and are affectionate to the A ll inner with France :
but this disposition cannol supply the place of the means essen-
tial in war, nor can we rely on its continuance amid the per-
plexities, opp] -. and misfortunes thai attend the want of
them.

"That no nation will have it more in its power to repay
what it may borrow than this. Our debts are small; the im-
mense tracts of unlocated lands: the variety and fertility of soils;
the advantages of every kind which we possess for commerce,
insure to this country a rapid progress in population and p

perity, and a certainty, its independence being established, of
reducing, in a short term of years, the comparatively inconsider-
able debts we may have occasion to contract.

■■ [f thi foregoing observations will be of an\ » you, 1

shall be happy. I wish yon a safe and pleasant voyage, the roll
accomplishment of your mission, and a speedy return;-- being,
with sentiments of perfeel friendship, regard, and affection, dear

sir,

••Your obedient servant,

"G. \\V*

* It will be observed by a comparison of this document with that laserted in
the diplomatic correspondence that there isa difference in the disposition of the
parts of these instructions and thai the copy given t" Laurens was fuller. The
difference is not however importanl The above is copied from the Oral 'trait In
Hamilton's autograph, with the exception of the four closing lines, which are
addi'<] in the handwriting of Washington.

!^6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [-fix. 23.

MLLITAEY REGULATIONS.

Draft by Hamilton. Submitted to Washington.

There are still existing in the army so many abuses absolute-
ly contrary to the military constitution, that, without a speedy
stop is put to them, it will be impossible even to establish any
order or discipline among the troops.

I would, therefore, propose the following Regulations, sub-
mitting to his Excellency the Commander-in-Chief, to distinguish
such as may be published under his own authority in General
Orders, and such as will require the sanction and authority of
the committee of Congress now in camp.

lstly.— Every officer or soldier who acts contrary to the Re-
gulations for the order and discipline of the army, established by
Congress, shall be tried and punished for disobedience of orders
2dly.— Every officer who absents himself from his regiment
without leave, shall be tried and punished. If he remain absent
three weeks, he shall be ordered to join bY a notification in Ge-
neral Orders, and in the public newspapers. And in case of his
absence three weeks afterward, such notification shall be re-
peated And should he not return in three weeks from the last
notification, he shall, by the sentence of a court martial be
cashiered and rendered incapable of ever holding a commission
m the armies of the United States.

dnv3,llj'~Erry ?ffiC6r °n furl°Ugh' who remaiQS »fc*nt ten
day longer than the time allowed him, shall be tried by a court

c use i t 1 * ^ °f ^ b6in& ^ Sickness OT »7 other
cause detained from his regiment six days above the time al-
lowed in his furlough, he shall inform the commanding officer of

o? suchT/ of th: rers that to his ™*- ™%£
ill biv trth ' : slia]I be notiM> tned> -d p—m,

agreeably to the second article.

JEt. 23.] MILITARY REGULATIONS. 177

-Itlih-.-- [t being permitted, for the care and conveni
the Generals, and other officers of the army, to take servants
from the regiments, many abuses have resulted therefrom. To
remedy which, the following Regulations are to take place for
the future:

Each Major-General is permitted to take from the division
which he commands, lour men. Bach Brigadier-General, three
men. Bach Colonel, or Lieutenant-Colonel-Commandant, two
men. Bach lieutenant-Colonel, or Major, one man, and ;i
cond man, who is to 1'" exempted from ordinary duty, but to
turn out in time of action. Each Captain, two men, to be ex-
empted from ordinary duty only. Each Subaltern, one man, who
is io mount guard with the officer lie serves. rJ nose Generals,
ami other officers, who are not attached to any particular division
or brigade, to take their servants from the line.

No officer in a civil department, shall be permitted to take a
soldier from any regimenl to serve him ; nor is any Colonel, or
commanding officer, to suffer a soldier of their regiment to be de-
tained by any such officer.

Those who may be permitted to have servants from the line,
are to apply to the Quarter-Master-General, who will tak
from the regiments, and distribute them to whom he thinks
proper.

othly. — (ireat quantities of arms and ammunition have been

fcroyed, by being in the ;■ on of men who do not use

them in time of action. To prevent this, lor the future, uoarms,

lutrements, or ammunition, are to !„• delivered to those ur
the following description, viz.: general and Btaff officers, waiters,
wagoners, camp color men, and all those who do not bear arms
in time of action. Such of those as have arms, are immediately
to deliver them to their Captains, who will deliver them to the
Conductor, that they may be returned to the Field Commissary.

6thly. — Abolition of standing guards, though of irrea-
quence to the order and discipline of the army, has not yet taken
place. The soldiers on these guards, being separated from their
regiments, are often employed as servants. They becOD
rant of the service, and lose and destroy their arms and clothing,

B 12

178 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 23.

Therefore, for the future, no standing guard shall be permitted to
any general, or other officer, on any pretence whatever.

Those guards which cannot be relieved every twenty-four
hours, must be relieved at least every three days ; for which the
Inspectors and Majors of Brigade are to be answerable. All
guards or pickets, for more than three days, shall be called de-
tachments.

7thly. — The multiplicity of small guards, for the stores and
baggage of the army, being unnecessary, and diminishing the
strength of the regiments, it will be necessary to repeat the order
given at Smith's Clove, the 25th of June last, relative to this ob-
ject. It should therefore be ordered, that

The order given at Smith's Clove the 25th of June last, rela-
tive to the guard usually furnished for the Quarter-Master's, and
other stores, is to be carried into execution with the greatest
rigor, and is to be regarded as a standing order.

8thly. — It being very improper and hurtful to the service,
that guards should be sent too far from the corps to which they
belong, it is ordered,

That the general officers shall have their guard from the divi-
sions and brigades to which they belong ; and those who have
no division or brigade, shall be furnished with a guard from the
line, by detail from the Adjutant General.

No General shall take his guard above ten miles from camp,
without the express leave of the Commander-in-Chief.

9thly. — Nothing being more disgraceful to the service, nor
dangerous for the army, than for the advanced posts to be sur-
prised by the enemy, it is necessary that every possible precau-
tion should be taken to prevent an accident so dishonorable to
the officer who commands at such a post. And as the instruc-
tion given in the chapter on the service of the guard, in the Ke-
gulations, is not full and explicit, it is thought necessary to add
the following article :

As soon as an officer, commanding a detachment, arrives at
the post he is to occupy, he must endeavor to procure some inha-
bitant on whom he can depend, to show him all the roads, foot-
paths, and other avenues leading to the post. These he must

jEt. 23.] MILITARY REGULATIONS. IT'.)

himself reconnoitre, and then determine the number of guards
necessary for his security, as well in front, as on the flanks and
in the rear of the post. lie must then divide his detachment into
three parts, one of which musl be always on guard ; another, ad
as reserve picket : and the third, 1"' nil' duty.

The pari destined for guard, must he divided into as many
guards as the officer may think accessary; always observing,
that the guards are so proportioned as that one-third o
guard may always be on sentry at the same time.

These guards should be posted at three or four hundred p

from the main post, and the sentinels form a chain round it.

They musl be within sighl of each other during the day, and
within rail during the night

The commanding officer having himself posted these guards
and sentinels, and well instructed the officers and sergeants in
theirduty, will fix the place where he means to defend himself in
of an attack ; as a house, a height, or behind some bridge or
fence, which he will strengthen as much as possible by an abatis,
ditch, or any thing his genius may direct him for that purpose.

The reserve pickets are on no account to stir from the main

•, or take otr their accoutrements; but must be ready to pa-
rade underarms at any moment of the day or night; though,
• luring the day, they may be permitted to lay down and sleep.
E . TV man musl have his haversack under his head; and if the
post is dangerous, his arms in his hand.

The Reserve will furnish a guard of a sergeant and from six
to twelve men, to furnish from two to four sentinels round the
house, or wherever they are posted, to give notice of all that ap-
proach, or of any alarm. One of these sentries must, always be
before the arms.

That part of the detachment oil' duty, may undress and re-
pose themselves. They must cook for the guard and picket,

fetch the wood and water necessary for the post; but they must
not do this before the roll-call in the morning when the com-
manding officer receives the reportsofal] the L If the'
is near the enemy, this part iA' the detachment must not uncb
duriug the night.

180 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 23.

As the guard form a chain of sentinels round the post, no
soldier must pass the chain without a non-commissioned officer ■
nor any stranger be permitted to enter, without being conducted
to, and examined by, the commanding officer.

After roll-call in the evening, no soldier must be permitted to
go more than forty paces from the place of arms. The officers it
is expected, always remain with their men.

As soon as a sentry perceives the enemy, he must fire his
piece to alarm the other guards and the main body. The guards
immediately parade, and follow the rules prescribed in the Eegu-
lations. The picket parades immediately, and the other part
joins it as fast as it can get ready. The commanding officer will
immediately detach one-third of the picket, with orders to march
toward the guard attacked, and lay in ambuscade behind some
house, barn, or m a wood on the road leading from them to the
mam post. And when the guard attacked retreat, and are fol-
lowed by the enemy, they must fall in the rear of the enemy and
keep up a scattered fire. This manoeuvre, especially in the
night, will not fad to disconcert the enemy, and cause a failure of
their enterprise.

_ Tie g^rd are, in every respect, to observe the rules laid down
in the Regulations.

The part on guard is to be relieved by the part off duty, and
the guard take the reserve picket.

thanNZ?f *rhe TiCe 1S m°re imp°rtant' "or more neSle<^
hZ 1 IY STd> n°tWlthstandini; &e duties are so particu-
larly described in the Regulations.

„f t? a VerJ f M°m ' gUard tum out for a ^ral officer

ever b!^ T ^ "^ tUm °Ut' ** » «*»> or

ever drawn up in the order prescribed. Therefore, for the fu-
ture, the Generals, and Field officers of the day are ordered to
pay the greatest attention, that the service of Ae gua dlpe"
formed stnctly conformable to the Eegulations. For which Z.

LTa e! TIT the grds °1*^ - ***££%,

and arrest or confine any officer, or non-commissioned officer
whose guard > not already paraded in order at his arrival A
guard whack is suxprised by an officer of the day, may, wnh the

jet. 23.] MILITARY REGULATIONS. 181

same facility, be surprised by the enemy. If the sentinel 1" I
the guard-house is uol sufficient, others must be added, who can
see around the environs of the post, and give notice of all that
appri tach.

For tin1 more effectual preservation of the arms, accoutre*
ments, and ammunition, each regiment shall be charged with the
arms, &c., n<»w in their possession, agreeably to the returns made
at the last inspection. And r<>r the future, none of those artii
shall be drawn from the Field Commissary, but by returns signed
by the Inspector of the Division, or, in bis absence, by the Major
of Brigade, doing his duty. And the Inspector and Major of
Brigade, are to pay the strictest attention, that the Regulations,
with respect to this object, are strictly carried into execution, ex-
amining and comparing the Regimental Returns with those of the
Conductors.

In the Returns of the army, a great number of men are
reckoned, who have been sick, or otherwise absent, a long time,
without any account of them having been sent to their regiments.

Orders must be given to the officers superintending the hos-
pitals, to send their Returns regularly every month; and the
Majors of Brigade must take an extract of those of their Bi
returned in the several hospitals, to compare with the Returns of
the inspection.

For those men who are sick in the country at private houses,
certificates must be produced every two months, signed by a jus-
tice of the peace; and without such certificates, the men must
no longer returned, though the regiment may keep an i t of

them, that they be reclaimed if ever found.

The army, even at this day. is much reduced by a considera-
ble number of men being permitted to retire on furlough and ex-
tra service. I would therefore recommend the following Regu-
lations ;

That from the first of May till the campaign closes, no officer
have leave of absence for more than eight days, unless 1>\ |
mission from the Commander-in-Chief^ or officer commanding

-irate post : and that no Qon-commissioned officer, norsoldier,
be furkmghed during the aforesaid period, unless by his .Major-

182 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 23.

General, or officer commanding at a separate post : and that for
only six days, and on the most special account. That during the
army's continuance in winter quarters, not more than six men of
a hundred be absent on furlough at the same time ; these to have
leave of absence from the officers commanding the regiments to
which they belong.

That every officer, non-commissioned officer, and soldier now
on furlough, or on the recruiting service, be ordered to join their
respective corps, by the first of June ; the commanding officers of
regiments to be answerable that they be notified of this order.

Notwithstanding the General Order lately issued, respecting
men on extra service, many are still improperly absent. It is
therefore ordered, that they join by the first of June, the com-
manding officers of the regiments to which they respectively
belong, to be answerable that they be notified of this order.
That for the future, none be suffered to go on such employ, ex-
cept by order of the Commander-in-Chief, officers commanding at
a separate post, or the Quarter-Master General.

The Marechaussee Corps, though raised at a great expense,
has been found not to answer the purpose for which it was
raised ; and as, by its composition, it is not fit to be employed on
the lines, in order that they may not 1. e useless to the army, I
would propose the following

Arrangement for the Marechaussee.

That the name they at present bear, be changed into that of
General Staff Dragoons; and that they be employed in the fol-
owing manner :

To furnish a guard for the Commander-in-Chief, of such a
number as he shall please to order.

To furnish Orderly dragoons to Major Generals and Briga-
diers ; when their divisions and brigades are separated from the
army, or when the Commander-in-Chief shall think them neces-
sary. To furnish, also, Orderly dragoons to the Quarter-Master
General, and Inspector General of the Army, and commanding
officers of separate departments.

The Inspector who has the department of the Cavalry, to have
the direction of this corps; to furnish the guards and Orderly

JEt. 24.]

D IS CI1' LINK.

dragoons, agreeably to the orders be may receive from the Com*
mander-in-Chief, without whose orders nodraj
tached from the troop.

To prevent the abuses whioh have arisen, with res]
derly dragoons, the following Order should be rigorously ob-
served :

CTo Orderly dragoons to be employed on any but military
duty, nor senl express more than twenty miles; theirduty b
only to carry the orders of the General in writing, whenever I
may be ordered: aor are they to follow the Aids, or any other
officer, but the General to whom they are Orderly; who will
himself consult the preservation of the ho - much as possible,

by employing them only in cases of necessity.

No person whatever is to ride the dragoon horses but the
dragoons themselves: and any dragoon is to inform the in
of any breach of this order; and the Inspector will immediately
inform the Inspector General thereof; that the person who made;

• of the horse, may be punished. And in case any dragoon
neglects to inform the Inspector as aforesaid, he shall receive
hundred lashes for such neglect

DISCIPLINE.

Submitted by Washington to Congress. Draft by Hamilton.

Hkw> Quarters, Now Windsor, Fob. 3, 1781.

I have, on different occasions, myself the honor,

present to Congress the inconveniences arising from the want of
a proper gradation of punishment in our military code; bul

no determination has 1 o communicated tome, [conclud .

multiplicity of business may have diverted their attention 6
the object As I am convinced, a greal part of the vi
discipline springs from this source, I take the liberty again

184 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 24.

renew the subject. The highest corporal punishment we are
allowed to give, is a hundred lashes; between that and death
there are no degrees. Instances daily occurring of offences for
which the former is entirely inadequate, Courts Martial, to pre-
serve some proportion between the crime and the punishment
are obliged to pronounce sentence of death. Capital sentences
on this account, become more frequent in our service than in
any other; so frequent, as to render their execution, in most
cases, inexpedient; and it happens from this that greater of-
fences often escape punishment, while lesser are commonly pun-
ished, which cannot but operate as an encouragement to the
commission of the former.

The inconveniences of this defect are obvious. Congress
are sensible of the necessity of punishment in an army, of the
justice and policy of a due proportion between the crime and
the penalty ; and, of course, of the necessity of proper degrees
of the latter. I shall therefore content myself with observing,
that it appears to me indispensable there should be an extension
of the present corporal punishment, and also that it would be
useful to authorize courts martial to sentence delinquents to
labor on the public works; perhaps even for some crimes, par-
ticularly desertion, to transfer them from the land to the sea
service, where they have less opportunity to indulge their incon-
stancy. A variety in punishments is of utility as well as a pro-
portion.

The number of lashes, may either be indefinite, left to the
discretion of the Court to fix a limited to a larger number- in
this case I would recommend five hundred. There is one evil
however, which I shall particularize, resulting from the imper-
fection of our regulation in this respect. It is the increase of
arbitrary punishments. Officers finding discipline cannot be
maintained by a regular course of proceeding, are tempted to
use their own discretion which sometimes occasions excesses, to
correct winch, the interests of discipline will not permit much
rigor. rompt, and therefore arbitrary punishments are not to
be avoided m an army, but the necessity for them will be more
or less, m proportion as the military laws have more or less

vigor.

jEt.-2\.} the continent alist.
There is another thing in our articles of war, which I beg
leave to Bnggesl to Congress, the propriety of altering. It is the
2d article of the Itli section; allowing commanding officers of
oorpa to furlough their soldiers. This privilege, it' suffered to

operate, would often deprive the army of i e men than it

could spare. It. lias been attended with abuses ; il is 'I
able for a general officer to restrain the exercise of a privil
granted by authority of Congn

Toprevenl uneasiness and discussion, it were to be wished,
Congress would think proper to repeal this article, and ves\ the
power of designating the mode of granting furloughs in the
Cominaii.l.T-in-Chiefj or commanding officer of a separate army.
It would perhaps be useful to prescribe a printed form, tor which
purpose I have taken the liberty to inclose one. This would
hinder counterfeits and impositions. On the same principle I
inclose the form of a discharge. It would, in my opinion, be a
o-oo.l regulation, that a soldier returning home, either or fur-
lough or discharged, who did cot, in ten days after his return,
produce to the nearest magistrate his printed certificate, should
W ;i]>]uvhrinlr<l by tlm magistrate as a deserter, and through the
Governor, reported to the General Officer commanding, in the
State or department This regulation, published in the army
and in the several States, would have a tendency to discourage
desertion. Something of this kind has been Lately adopted in
Virginia, and I doubt not, will have a goodeffect It wereto
be wished its utility could become general

THE CONTINENTS LIST.

Fisiikii.i.. Nbw-York Packet, July 19 1781.

Mi:. Loudon :

1 send von the firsi number of a series of papers, which I

intend to publish, on matters ><\~ the greatest importance to tl

I hope they will be read with as much candor and at-

186 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 24.

tention as the object of them deserve ; and that no conclusions
will be drawn till these are folly developed.

I am, Sir,

Your most ob't humble servant,

A. B.

NO. I.

It would be the extreme of vanity in us not to be sensible
that we began this revolution with very vague and confined no-
tions of the practical business of government. To the greater
part of us it was a novelty ; of those who under the former con-
stitution had had opportunities of acquiring experience, a large
proportion adhered to the opposite side, and the remainder can
only be supposed to have possessed ideas adapted to the narrow
colonial sphere, in which they had been accustomed to move, not
of that enlarged kind suited to the government of an independ-
ent nation.

There were, no doubt, exceptions to these observations; men
in all respects qualified for conducting the public affairs with
skill and advantage ; but their number was small— they were
not always brought forward in our councils; and when they
were, their influence was too commonly borne down by the pre-
vailing torreut of ignorance and prejudice.

On a retrospect, however, of our transactions, under the dis-
advantages with which we commenced, it is perhaps more to be
wondered at, that we have done so well, than that we have not
done better. There are, indeed, some traits in our conduct, as
conspicuous for sound policy, as others for magnanimity. But,
on the other hand, it must also be confessed, there have been
many false steps, many chimerical projects and Utopian specula-
tions, in the management of our civil as well as of our military
attains. A part of these were the natural effects of the spirit of
the times, dictated by our situation. An extreme jealousy of
power is the attendant on all popular revolutions, and has sel-
dom been without its evils. It is to this source we are to trace
many of the fatal mistakes, which have so deeply endangered

4BT.94.] THE CONTINENT ALIST. W

the common cause; particularly that defect wliii-li will be the

object of these remarks — A want of power in Coi

The present Congress, respegtable for abilities and integrity,
by experience convinced of the necessity of change, are prepar-
ing Beveral important articles, to be submitted to the respeel
States, for augmenting the powers of the Confederation. But
though there is hardly at this time a man of information is
America, who will not acknowledge, as a general proposition,
that in itspresenl form, it is unequal, either to a vigorous |
secution of the war, or to the preservation of the union in

,.: vet when the principle comes to be applied to praci
there seems not to be the same agreement in tlie modes of
remedying the defect; and it is to be feared, from a disposition
which appeared in some of the States, on a late occasion, that
the salutary intentions of Congress may meet with more delay
and opposition, than the critical posture of the States will

justify.

It will be attempted to show, in a course of papers, what
ought to be done, and the mischiefs of a contrary policy.

In the firsl stages of the controversy, it was excusable to err.
Good intentions, rather than great skill, were to have been ex-
pected from us. Bui we have now had sufficient time for re-
flection, and experience as ample as unfortunate, to rectify our
errors. To persist in them becomes disgraceful, and even crimi-
nal, and belies that character of good sense, and a quick discern-
ment of our interests, winch, in spite of our mistakes, we have
been hitherto allowed. It will prove, that our sagacity is
limited to interests of inferior moment ; and that we are inca-
pable of those enlightened and liberal views, necessary to make
us a great and a flourishing people.

History is full of examples, where in contests for liberty, a
jealousy of power has either defeated the attempts to recover or
preserve it, in the first instance, or has afterwards subverted it
by clogging government with too great precautions for its
felicity, or by leaving too wide a door for sedition and popular
licentiousness. In a governmenl framed for durable liberty,
not less regard must be paid to giving the magistrate a |
HAMILTON'S WORKS. (>Et. 24.

degree of authority, to make and execute the laws with rigor
than to guard against encroachments upon the rights of the com-
munity. As too much power leads to despotism, too little leads
to anarchy, and both, eventually, to the ruin of the people.
These are maxims well known, but never sufficiently attended
to, in adjusting the frames of governments. Some momentary
interest or passion is sure to give a wrong bias, and pervert the
most favorable opportunities.

No friend to order or to rational liberty, can read without
pain and disgust, the history of the Commonwealths of Greece.
Generally speaking, they were a constant scene of the alternate
tyranny of one part of the people over the other, or of a few
usurping demagogues over the whole. Most of them had been
originally governed by kings, whose despotism (the natural
disease of monarchy) had obliged their subjects to murder, ex-
pel, depose, or reduce them to a nominal existence, and institute
popular governments. In these governments, that of Sparta ex-
cepted, the jealousy of power hindered the people from trusting
out of their own hands a competent authority, to maintain the
repose and stability of the Commonwealth; whence originated
the frequent revolutions and civil broils, with which they were
distracted. This, and the want of a solid federal union to re-
strain the ambition and rivalship of the different cities, after a
rapid succession of bloody wars, ended in their total loss of
liberty, and subjugation to foreign powers.
_ In comparison of our governments with those of the an-
cient republics, we must, without hesitation, give the prefer-
ence to our own; because every power with us is exercised by
representation, not in tumultuary assemblies of the collective
body of the people, where the art or impudence of the Orator or
ir^e rather than the utility or justice of the measure conld
seldom fail to govern. Yet, whatever may be the advantage on
our side, m such a comparison, men who estimate the value of
institutions not from prejudices of the moment, but from ex,
penence and reason, must be persuaded, that the same jealousy
of power has prevented our reaping all the advantages, from the
examples of other nations, which we ought to have done, arid

iET.'Ji] THE C0NTINENTALI8T. L89

li;i- rendered our Constitutions in inanv respects, feeble and im-
perfect

Perhaps the evil is no1 verygreal in i tootu i 'in-

stitutions; for, notwithstanding their imperfections, they a
for some time, be made to operate in such a manner, as to ansi
the purposes of the common defence, and the maintenance of
order; and they seem to nave, in themselves, and in the pi
of society, among as the seeds of improvement.

Bui this is not the ease with respect to the Federal Govern-
ment; if it is too weak at first, it will continually grow weal
The ambition and local interests of the respective members, will
be constantly undermining and usurping upon its prero§
till it comes to a dissolution; if a partial combination of some
of the more powerful ones does not bring it to a more speedy
and violent end.

NO. IV.
August 30: 1781.

Tlic preceding numbers are chiefly intended I firm an

opinion, already pretty generally received, that it t£
augmenl the powers of the confederation. The principal difficul-
ty yet remains to fix the public judgment definitively on the
points which ought to compose that augmentation.

I: may be pronounced with confidence that nothing short of
the following articles can suffice.

1st. — The Poweb of Regulating Tbade, comprehend!]
right of granting bounties and premiums by way of encoun
inent, of imposing duties of every kind as well for revenu

regulation, of appointing all officers of tie :ns, and of laying

embargoes in extraordinary emergenc

2d. — A moderate-levied tax, throughout the United Si
a specific rate per pouud or per acre,* granted to the Federal

* T«o pence .111 acre on cultivated, and a half-penny on ttncnlth
wouM answer the purpose, and would !><■ so moderate ;is not to be fi II ■' nna
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 24.

Government in perpetuity ; and, if Congress think proper, to be
levied by their own collectors.

3d.— A moderate capitation-tax* on every male inhabitant
above fifteen years of age, exclusive of common soldiers, com-
mon seamen, day laborers, cottagers, and paupers, to be also
vested in perpetuity, and with the same condition of collection

4th.— The disposal of all unlocated land for the benefit of the
United States (so far as respects the profits of the first sale and
the quit-rents), the jurisdiction remaining to the respective States
in whose limits they are contained.

5th.— A certain proportion of the product of all mines disco-
vered, or to be discovered, for the same duration, and with the
same right of collection as in the second and third articles

6th.-The appointment of all land (as well as naval) officers
oi every rank.

The three first articles are of immediate necessity • the
three last would be of great present, but of much greater future
to the" LTntn C°mbined W°uldSivesolidity ^d permanency

n,i^%f T ^^ °f ^ Confederation is> that it gives the
United States no property; or, in other words, no revenue, nor
the means of acquiring it, inherent in themselves and indepen-
dent on the temporary pleasure of the different members And
power without revenue, in political society, is a name. While
Congress continue altogether dependent on the occasional grants

TlZTiT^ for the means of defra^ the e" of

the Federal Government, it can neither have dignity, 4or nor
credit. Credit supposes specific and permanent funds for the

theLTalllffii011' h T11^^ require m°re' °» — * ^

ZslZnlt " f 1Ch haS b6en eXGited hJ ^ P** bor-

ders m our finances. It will perhaps be necessary, in the first

* Suppose a dollar', or events ?££ "^ ** ^ *° *

JEt. 24.] THE CONTINENT A LI ST. 191

instance, to appropriate funds for the redemption of the principal
in a determinate period, as well as for tin' payment of interef

It is essential thai the property in such funds should be in
the contractor himself and the appropriation dependenl on his
own will. If, instead of this, the possession or disposal <>f them
is dependenl on tin- voluntary or occasional concurrence of a
number of different wills not under his absolute control, both the
one and the other will be too precarious to be trusted. The
most wealthy and besl established nations are obliged to pledge
their funds to obtain credit, and it would be the height of absur-
dity in us, in the midst of a revolution, to expect to have it on
better terms. This credit being to be procured through Con-
gress, the funds ought to be provided, declared, and vested in
them.* It is a fact that verifies the want of specific funds — a cir-
cumstance which operates powerfully against our obtaining cre-
dit abroad is, not a distrust of our becoming independent, but of
our continuing united, and with our present confederation the
distrust is natural. Both foreigners and the thinking men
among ourselves, would have much more confidence in the du-
ration of the Union, if they were to see it supported on the foun-
lation here proposed.

There are some among us ignorant enough to imagine, that
the war may he carried on without credit, defraying the expe
of the year with what may be raised within the year. Bu1 this
- for want of a knowledge of our real resources and i 3es.

It may be demonstrated, that the whole amount of the reve-
nue, which these States are capable of affording, will he deficient
annually live or six millions of dollars for the support of civil
government and of the war.

This is not a conjecture hazarded at random, but the result of
experiment and calculation; nor can it appear surprisimj", when

it is considered that the revenues of the Onited Provinces, equal

* It might, indeed, !"■ a i.r""'l restrainl npon the spirit of running in debt,
with which governments are too apt to I"- infected, to make it a condition of the
grants to Congress, thai they shall be obliged, in all their loans, t<> appropriate
funds for the payment of principal as well as interest, and such a restriction might

be serviceable to public credit.

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 24.

to these States in population, beyond comparison superior in in-
dustry, commerce, and riches, do not exceed twenty -five millions
of guilders, or about nine millions and a half of dollars. In
times of war, they have raised a more considerable sum, but it
has been chiefly by gratuitous combinations of rich individuals,
a resource we cannot employ, because there are few men of
large fortunes in this country, and these for the most part in land.
Taxes in the United Provinces are carried/tp><an extreme which
would be impracticable here. Not only the living are made
to pay for every necessary of life, but even the dead are tri-
butary to the public for the liberty of interment at particular
hours. These considerations make it evident that we could
not raise an equal amount of revenue in these States. Yet,
in '76, when the currency was not depreciated, Congress emit-
ted, for the expenses of the year, fourteen millions of dollars.
It cannot be denied, that there was a want of order and eco-
nomy in the expenditure of public money, nor that we had a
greater military force to maintain at that time than we now
have ; but, on the other hand, allowing for the necessary in-
crease in our different civil lists, and for the advanced prices of
many articles, it can hardly be supposed possible to reduce our
annual expense very much below that sum. This simple idea
of the subject, without entering into details, may satisfy us,
that the deficiency which has been stated is not to be sus-
pected of exaggeration.

Indeed, nations the most powerful and opulent are obliged to
have recourse to loans in time of war, and hence it is that most
of the States of Europe are deeply immersed in debt. France is
among the number, notwithstanding her immense population,
wealth, and resources. England owes the enormous sum of two
hundred millions sterling. The United Provinces, with all their
prudence and parsimony, owe a debt of the generality of fifty
millions, besides the particular debts of each province. Almost
all the other powers are more or less in the same circumstances.

While this teaches us how contracted and uninformed are
the views of those who expect to carry on the war without run-
ning in debt. It ought to console us with respect to the amount

jEt. 24.] THE CON TIN K \ T A LI ST. L90

oftli.it which we now owe, or may hai e occasion to incur, in the
remainder of tin- war. The whole, without burthening the j
pie, m;i\ be paid off in twenty years after the conclusion of
peace.

The principal part of the deficienl five or six millions musl be
procured liy loans from private persons at home and abroad.
Every thing may be boped from the generosity of Prance, which
her means will permit, bul she has lull employment for hex
revenues and credit in the prosecution of the war on her own
part [f-we judge of the future by the past, tin- pecuniary .suc-
cors fifom her must continue to be far short of our wants; and
the contingency of a war on the continent of Europe makes it

able they may diminish rather than increase.

We have in a less degree experienced the friendship of Spain
in this article.

The government of the United Provinces, if disposed to do it,
can give us no assistance. The resources of the Republic are
chiefly mortgaged for former debts. Happily, it has extensive
credit, but it will have occasion for the whole to supply its own
exigencies.

Private men, either foreigners or natives, will not lend to a
large amount, but on the usual security of funds prpperly estab-
lished. This security Congress cannot give, till the several

S • • them with revenue, or the means of revenue, for that

purpose.

Congress have wisely appointed a superintendent of their
finances — a man of acknowledged abilities and integrity, as well
as of great personal credit and pecuniary influence.

It was impossible, thai the business of finance could be ably
conducted by a body of men however well composed or well in-
tentioned. Order in the future management of our moneyed con-
cerns, a strict regard to the performance of public engagements,
and of course the restoration of public credit, may be reasonably
and confidently expected from Mr. Morris's administration, it he

is furnished with materials upon which to Operate ; that IS, if the
Federal Government can acquire funds as the basis of his ar-
rangements, lie has very judiciously proposed a Nati< >nal bank,
B 13

194 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 25.

which, by uniting the influence and interest of the moneyed men
with the resources of Government, can alone give it that durable
and extensive credit of which it stands in need. This is the best
expedient he could have devised for relieving the public embar-
rassments ; but to give success to the plan, it is essential that
Congress should have it in their power to support him with unex-
ceptionable funds. Had we begun the practice of funding four
years ago, we should have avoided that depreciation of the cur-
rency which has been pernicious to the morals and to the credit
of the nation ; and there is no other method than this to prevent
a continuance and multiplication of the evils flowing from that
prolific source.

NO. VI.

July 4, 1782.

Let us see what will be the consequences of not authorizing
the Federal Government to regulate the trade of these States.
Besides the want of revenue and of power, besides the imme-
diate risk to our independence, the dangers of all the future evils
of a precarious Union, besides the deficiency of a wholesome
concert, and provident superintendence, to advance the general
prosperity of trade, the direct consequence will be that the landed
interest and the laboring poor, will in the first place fall a sacri.
fice to the trading interest, and the whole eventually to a bad
system of policy, made necessary by the want of such regulating
power.

Each State will be afraid to impose duties on its commerce,
lest the other States, not doing the same, should enjoy greater
advantages than itself, by being able to afford native commodi-
ties cheaper abroad, and foreign commodities cheaper at home.

A part of the evils resulting from this would be, a loss to the
revenue of those moderate duties, which, without being injurious
to commerce, are allowed to be the most agreeable species of
taxes to the people. Articles of foreign luxury, while they would
contribute nothing to the income of the State, being less dear by

JEt. 25.] THE CONTINENT ALIST. L95

an exemption from duties, would have a more extensive con
sumption.

Many branches of trade, hurtful to die common int.
would be continued for want of proper checks and discoun
incuts. As revenues musl be found to satisfy the pub)
genciee in peace and in war, too greal a proportion of taxes will
fall directly upon land, and upon the aecessaries of life — the i
duce of that land. The influence of these evils will be to
landed propertj fluctuating and less valuable — to oppr<
poor by raising the prices of necessaries — to injure commerce by

encouraging the < sumption of foreign Luxuries- by increasing

the value of labor — bj lessening the quantity of home produc-
tions, enhancing their prices al foreign markets, of course ob-
structing their sale, and enabling other nations to supplant i

Particular caution ought at present to be observed in this
country not to burthen the soil itself and its productions with
heavy impositions, because the quantity of unimproved land will
invite the husbandmen to abandon old settlements for new, and
the disproportion of our population for some time to come will
necessarily make labor dear, to reduce which, and not to b
it, oughl to be a capita] object of our policy.

Easy duties, therefore, on commerce, especially on imp
ought to lighten the burthens which will unavoidably Gall upon
land. Though it may be said that, on the principle ofa n
cal influence of prices, whereon the taxes are laid in the first in-
stance, they will in the end be home by all ■ t [\ ;, 0j
the greatest importance thai do one should sink under the im-
mediate pressure. The great art is to distribute the public bur-
thens well, and not suffer them, cither first or last, to fall I i
heavily on parts of the community; else, distress and d
must ensue — a shock given to any {'art of the political machine
vibrates through the whole.

As a sufficient revenue could not be raised from b
answer the public purp . other articles have been pr
A moderate land and poll tax being of easy and onexj
collection, and leaving oothing to discretion, are the simp!
best that could be devised.

196 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 25.

It is to be feared the avarice of many of the landholders will
be opposed to a perpetual tax upon land, however moderate.
They will ignorantly hope to shift the burthens of the national
expense from themselves to others — a disposition as iniquitous
as it is fruitless — the public necessities must be satisfied ; this
can only be done by the contributions of the whole society. Par-
ticular classes are neither able nor will be willing to pay for the
protection and security of the others, and where so selfish a
spirit discovers itself in any member, the rest of the com-
munity will unite to compel it to do its duty.

Indeed, many theorists in political economy have held, that
all taxes, wherever they originate, fall upon land, and have
therefore been of opinion, that it would be best to draw the
whole revenue of the State immediately from that source, to
avoid the expense of a more diversified collection, and the ac-
cumulations which will be heaped in their several stages, upon
the primitive sums advanced in those stages which are imposed
on our trade. But though it has been demonstrated, that this
theory has been carried to an extreme, impracticable in fact;
yet it is evident, in tracing the matter, that a large part of all
taxes, however remotely laid, will, by an insensible circulation,
come at last to settle upon land — the source of most of the
materials employed in commerce.

It appears, from calculation made by the ablest master of
political arithmetic, about sixty years ago, that the yearly pro-
duct of all the lands in England amounted to £42,000,000
sterling, and the whole annual consumption at that period, of
foreign as well as domestic commodities/ did not exceed £49,000-
000, and the surplus of the exportation above the importation
£2,000,000, on which sums arise all the revenues in whatever
shape, which go into the Treasury.

It is easy to infer from this, how large a part of them must,
directly or indirectly, be derived from land.

Nothing can be more mistaken, than the collision and rival-
ship which almost always subsist between the landed and trading
interests, for the truth is, they are so inseparably interwoven
that one cannot be injured without injury nor benefited without

jEt. 26.] Tin: r<>\ ti \ i: \ r \ i, i st. l'.»7

benefit to tin* other. Oppress trade, Lands sink in value, mi
it flourish, 1 1 n i r value rises; incumber husbandry, trade de«
olines, encourage agriculture, commerce revives. The pi
of this mutual ivacti. »n might be easily delineated, but il
obvious to every man, who turns his thoughts, however super-
ficially, upoii the subject, to require it, It is only to be rei
gretted, that it is too often losl sight o£ when the seduction
some immediate advantage or exemption tempt us to saci
the future to the present

But perhaps the class is more numerous of those, who, not
Unwilling to bear their share of public burthens, are yel averse

to the idea of perpetuity, as if there ever would arrive a period

When the State would eease to want revenues, and taxes he-
come unnecessary. It is of importance to unmask this delusion,
and open the eyes of the people to the truth. It is paying
great a tribute to the idol of popularity, to flatter so injurious
and so visionary an expectation. The error is too gross to be
tolerated any where but in the cottage of the peasant Should
we meet with it in the Senate House, we must lament the ig
ance or despise the hypocrisy on which it is ingrafted. K.\-
pense is in the present siate of things entailed upon all govern-
ments; though, if we continue united, we shall be hereafter

posed to wars by land than most other countries; yel while
We have powerful neighbors on cither extremity, and our fron-
tier is embraced 1>V savages, whose alliance they may without

difficulty command, we cannot, in prudence, dispense with
the usual precautions tor our interior .security ; as a commercial
people, maritime power must be a primary object of our atten-
tion, and a navy cannot be created or maintained without ample
revenues. The nature of our popular institutions requires
numerous magistracy, for whom eompetenl provision nausl be

made, or wc may be certain our affairs will always he committed
to improper hands, and experience will teach us that 0.0 gOY-

ernmenl costs so much as a had one.

We mav preach, till we arc tired of the theme, the D

of disinterestedness in republics, without makings singl<

lyte. The virtuous declaimer will neither persuade hima li nor

198 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 25.

any other person to be content with a double mess of pottage,
instead of a reasonable stipend for his services. We might as
soon reconcile ourselves to the Spartan community of goods and
wives, to their iron coin, their long beards, or their black broth.
There is a total dissimilarity in the circumstances, as well as the
manners of society among us, and it is as ridiculous to seek for
models in the small ages of Greece and Rome, as it would be to
go in quest of them among the Hottentots and Laplanders.

The public, for the different purposes that have been men-
tioned, must always have large demands upon its constituents,
and the only question is, whether these shall be satisfied by
annual grants, perpetually renewed by a perpetual grant, once
for all, or by a compound of permanent and occasional supplies.
The last is the wisest course. The Federal Government should
neither be independent nor too much dependent. It should
neither be raised above responsibility or control, nor should it
want the means of maintaining its own weight, authority, dig-
nity and credit. To this end,, permanent funds are indispen-
sable, but they ought to be of such a nature, and so moderate
in their amount as never to be inconvenient. Extraordinary
supplies can be the objects of extraordinary emergencies, and in
that salutary medium will consist our true wisdom.

It would seem as if no mode of taxation could be relished,
but the worst of all modes, which now prevails by assessment.
Every proposal for a specific tax is sure to meet with opposition.
It has been objected to a poll tax at a fixed rate, that it will be
unequal, and the rich will pay no more than the poor. In the
form in which it has been offered in these papers, the poor, pro-
perly speaking, are not comprehended, though it is true, that
beyond the exclusion of the indigent, the tax has no reference to
the proportion of property, but it should be remembered that it
is impossible to devise any specific tax that will operate equally
on the whole community. It must be the province of the Legis-
lature to hold the scales with a judicious hand, and balance
one by another. The rich must be made to pay for their lux-
uries, which is the only proper way of taxing their superior
wealth.

jEt. 25.] THE CONTINENT A LIST. L99

Do we imagine that our assessments operate equally!
thing can be more contrary to the fact. Wnerevei a tion-

ary power is Lodged in anysel of men over the property of their
neighbors, they will abuse it; their passions, prejudi©
tialities dislikes, will have the principal lead in measuring the
abilities of those over whom their power extends ; and a
will ever 1"' a sel of petty tyrants, too unskilful, if honest,
possessed of so delicate a trust, and too seldomhom
them the excuse of want of skill.

The genius of liberty reprobates every thing arbitrary or dis-
cretionary in taxation. It exacts that every man, by a definite
and ge teral rule, should know what proportion of his property
the State demands; whatever liberty we may boast in theory, it
cannot exist in fact while assessments continue.

The admission of them anion-; ua is a aew proof, how often
human conduct' reconciles the most glaring opposites; in the
present ease, the most vicious practice of despotic governments,
with the freest constitutions and the greatesl love of liberty.

Tlie establishment of permanent funds would not only
answer the public purposes infinitely better than temporary
sup] but it would be the most effectual way of easing the
people.

With this basis for procuring credit, the amount of present
taxes might 1m- greatly diminished. Large sums of money might
be borrowed abroad, at a Low interest, and introduced i.
country, to defray the em-rent expenses and pay the public
debts: which would not only lessen the demand for immediate
supplies, but would throw more money into circulation, and
furnish the people with greater means of paying the t

Though it be a just rule thai we oughl not to run in debt
to avoid present expense, so far as our faculties extend, yel the
propriety of doing it cannot be disputed, when it is apparent
that these are incompetent to the public necessil

beyond our abilities can only tend to individual distress and
national disappointment. The product of the three fo]

articles will be as little as can be required, to enabl I

200 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 25.

pay their debts, and restore order into their finances. In addi-
tion to them —

The disposal of the imlocated lands will hereafter be a valu-
able source of revenue, and an immediate one of credit. As it
may be liable to the same condition with the duties on trade,
that is, the product of the sales within each State to be credited
to that State, and as the rights of jurisdiction are not infringed,
it seems to be susceptible of no reasonable objection.

Mines in every country constitute a branch of the revenue.
In this, where nature has so richly impregnated the bowels of
the earth, they may in time become a valuable one ; and as they
require the care and attention of government to bring them to
perfection, this care and a share in the profits of it will very
properly devolve upon Congress. All the precious metals should
absolutely be the property of the Federal Government, and with
respect to the others it should have a discretionary power of
reserving, in the nature of a tax, such part as it may judge not
inconsistent with the encouragement due to so important an ob-
ject. This is rather a future than a present resource.

The reason of allowing Congress to appoint its own officers
of the customs, collectors of the taxes, and military officers of
every rank, is to create in the interior of each State, a mass of
influence in favor of the Federal Government. The great danger
has been shown to be, that it will not have power enough to
defend itself, and preserve the Union, not that it will ever be-
come formidable to the general liberty ; a mere regard to the
interests of the confederacy will never be a principle sufficiently
active to crush the ambition and intrigues of different members.
Force cannot effect it. A contest of arms will seldom be be-
tween the common sovereign and a single refractory member, but
between distinct combinations of the several parts against each
other. A sympathy of situations will be apt to produce associ-
ates to the disobedient. The application of force is always dis-
agreeable—the issue uncertain. It will be wise to obviate the
necessity of it, by interesting such a number of individuals in
each State, in support of the Federal Government, as will be

Mt. 25.] GENERAL CONVENTION. 201

counterpoised to the ambition of others, and will make it difli-
cult for them to unite the people in opposition to the first and
necessary measures of the I fnion.

There is something noble and magniflcenl in the perspeol
of a great Federal Republic, closely linked in the pursnil of a
common interest, tranquil and prosperous al home -respectable
abroad; but there is something proportionably diminutive and
contemptible in the prospecl oi a number of petty States, with
the appearance only of onion, jarring, jealous, and perv<
withoul any determined direction, fluctuating and unhappy I
home, weak and insignificanl by their dissensions in the eyes of
other nations,

Happy America, if those to -whom thou hast intrusted the
guardianship of thy infancy, know how to provide tor thy
future repose, but miserable and undone, if their negligence or
ignorance permits the spirit of discord to erect her banner on
the ruins of thy tranquillity I

[Note. The other numbers are not found.]

RESOLUTION FOR A GENERAL CONVENTION OF

THE STATES.

Passed by the Legislature of New- York, Sun. lay. July 21sl L7W

Resolved, That it appears to this Legislature — after full
solemn consideration of the Beveral matters communicated 1>\
the Honorable the Oommittee of Congress, relative to the]
sent posture of our affairs, foreign and domestic, and contained
in a letter from the Secretary I ign Affairs, respecting the

former, as well as of the representations, from time to time
madr by the Superintendent of the Finances <>f the Unil I

tes, relative to his particular department — that the Bitual

202 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 25.

of these States is in a peculiar manner critical, and affords the
strongest reason to apprehend, from a continuance of the pre-
sent constitution of the Continental Government, a subdivision
of the public credit, and consequences highly dangerous to the
safet}^ and independence of these States.

Resolved, That while this Legislature are convinced by the
before mentioned communications, that, notwithstanding the
generous intentions of an Ally, from whom we have experi-
enced, and doubtless shall still experience all possible support ;
exigencies may arise to prevent our receiving pecuniary succors
hereafter, in any degree proportioned to our necessities. They
are also convinced from facts within their own knowledge, that
the provisions made by the respective States for carrying on the
war, are not only inadequate to the end, but must continue to
be so, while there is an adherence to the principles which now
direct the operation of public measures.

Resolved, That it is also the opinion of this Legislature,
that the present plan, instituted by Congress, for the administra-
tion of their Finances, is founded in wisdom and sound policy.
That the salutary effects of it, have already been felt in an ex-
tensive degree ; and that after so many violent shocks sustained
by the public credit, a failure in this system, for want of the sup-
port which the States are able to give, would be productive of
evils too pernicious to be hazarded.

Resolved, That it appears to this Legislature, that the pre-
sent British ministry, with a disposition not less hostile than that
of their predecessors, taught by experience to avoid their errors,
and assuming the appearance of moderation, are pursuing a
scheme calculated to conciliate in Europe, and seduce in Ame-
rica, That the economical arrangements they appear to be
adopting, are adapted to enlarging the credit of their Govern-
ment, and multiplying its resources, at the same time that they
serve to confirm the prepossessions and confidence of the people,
and that the plan of a defensive war on this Continent, while
they direct all their attention and resources to the augmentation
of their Navy, is that which may be productive of consequences
ultimately dangerous to the United States.

JEt. 25.] GENERAL CONVENTION. 208

Resolved, That it is the opinion of this Legislature, that

the presenl system of these States, exposes the i anon run-- to

a precarious issue, and Leaves as at the mercy of evenl
which we have n<> influence; a conduct extremely unwise in

any nation, and at all times, ami t<> a change of which, we

impelled at this juncture, by reasons of peculiar ami irresistible
weight, ami that it is the natural tendency ofthe weakness ami
disorders in our national measures, to Bpread diffidence ami dis-
trust anion-- the people, ami prepare their minds to r< ■ the
impressions the enemy wish to make.

Resolved, That the general Btate of European affairs, as Cat-
as they have eome to the knowledge of this Legislature, affords,
in their opinion, reasonable -round of confidence, and assures
us, that with judicious, vigorous exertion on our part, we may
rely on the final attainment of our objecl : bu1 far from justify-
ing indifference and security, calls upon us by every motive of
honor, good faith, and patriotism, without delay, to unite in
some system more effectual, for producing energy, harmony,
and consistency of measures, than that which now exists, and
more capable of putting the common cause out of the reach of
contingencies.

Resolved, That in the opinion of this Legislature, the radical
source of most of our embarrassments is, the want of sufficient
power in Congress, to effectuate thai ready and perfect co-opera-
tion of the different States, on which their immediate safety and
future happiness depend — that experience has demonstrated the

confederation to be defective in several essential point-., particu-
larly in not vesting the Federal Government either with a power
of providing revenue for itself, or with ascertained and produc-
tive funds, secured by a sanction so solemn and general as would
inspire the fullest confidence in them, and make them a substan-
tia] basis of credit- that these detect-, oughl to be without loss of
time repaired, the powers of Congress extended, a solid security
established for the payment of debts already incurred, and com-
petent means provided for future credit, and for supplying the

current demand- of the war.

Resolved, That it appears evidently to this Legislature, that

204 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 25.

the annual income of these States, admitting the best means were
adopted for drawing out their resources, would fall far short of
the annual expenditure, and that there would be a large defi-
ciency to be supplied on the credit of the States, which, if it
should be inconvenient for those powers to afford, on whose
friendship we justly rely, must be sought for from individuals,
to engage whom to lend, satisfactory securities must be pledged
for the punctual payment of interest, and the final redemption of
the principal.

Resolved, That it appears to this Legislature that the forego-
ing important ends can never be attained by partial delibera-
tions of the States separately ; but that it is essential to the com-
mon welfare, that there should be as soon as possible a confer-
ence of the whole on the subject, and that it would be advisable
for this purpose to propose to Congress to recommend, and to
each State to adopt the measure of assembling a General Con-
vention of the States, specially authorized to revise and
amend the Confederation, reserving a right to the respective
Legislatures to ratify their determinations.

July 22, 1782.

Resolved, That the Honorable James Duane, William Floyd,
John Morin Scott, Ezra L'Hommedieu, and Alexander Hamil-
ton, Esquires, are duly nominated and appointed delegates, to
represent this State in the United States in Congress assembled
for the ensuing year.

PLAN OF SPECIFIC TAXATION FOR THE STATE OF

NEW-YORK.

Let the method of taxing, throughout the State, by quotas
and assessments, be abolished ; and, instead thereof, let all taxes
be specific.

Let there be a land tax of three pence per acre upon all
meadow land in the State, and two pence upon all arable land.

Mr. 25.] SPECIFIC TAXATION. 205

Suppose there are, in 1 1 1>- State, tfbOtil forty thousand farm*
ers, and thai each (arm, upon an average, contains about t^n
Meres of meadow, ami forty acres of arable land: that would mi
in the whole State, about
Four hundred thousand acres ofmeadow

land, al three pence per acre, C"»<»oo.o.O

One million, six hundred thousand acres

of arable land, al two pence per acre, 13,333.6.8 — £18,33-
Five millions of acres of waste land, at

two shillings per hundred, 6000.0.0

.t^:;.:;:;:;.»;.s
Let there be a tax upon salt, at two shillings per bushel.
Suppose forty thousand families, each family consuming three

bushels :

This will be one hundred and twenty thousand bushels,
at two shillings [English, three shillings and four
pence sterling, per bushel ], £12,000

Let there be a tax upon tobacco of one penny per pound.
Suppose thirty thousand persons consumers of tobacco, at

twenty pounds each, per annum :

This would make six hundred thousand pounds, at one

penny per pound, £2,500

Let there be a tax upon carriages, of

Six pounds for every coach,
Five pounds for every chariot,
Four pounds for every other four-wheeled earn/
One pound for every two wheeled carria
Five shillings for every pleasure sleigh.
Suppose, in the whole State,
Thirty coaches, six pounds per coach, £lv|t

One hundred chariots, al five pounds per chariot, r>i»0

One hundred and fifty phaetons, a1 four pounds each, 600

Five hundred two-wheeled carriages, at our pound each, 500
Five thousand pleasure sleighs, at live shillings each, 1,260

£8,1

206 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 25.

Let there be a tax upon plate, at the rate of three pence per
ounce ; and upon gold plate four pence per ounce.

Suppose each family, upon an average, to have six ounces of
plate : This would make two hundred and forty thousand

ounces at three pence per ounce, £3000

Upon all silver-plated furniture, one penny per ounce.

Let there be a tax upon taverns.
For license to keep an inn or tavern at all, one pound, or two

pounds, per annum.
For license to sell spirituous liquors, two pounds or three pounds

per annum.
For license to sell wine, two pounds, or five pounds per annum.
For license to keep a billiard table, ten pounds per annum.
For license to play at other games, two pounds per annum.
For selling imported malt liquors, five pounds per annum.

Suppose, in the whole State, five hundred inns or taverns, of
which —

Four hundred would sell spirituous liquors,
Two hundred, wine,
Twenty keep billiard tables,
One hundred gaming houses :
Five hundred inns, at one pound [at two pounds, £1000], £500
Four hundred selling spirituous liquors, at two pounds [at

three pounds, £1200], 800

Two hundred, wine, at two pounds [at five pounds, £1000], 400
Twenty billiard tables, at three pounds, 60

One hundred gaming houses, at two pounds, 200

£1,960
Let there be a tax of ten shillings per head on menial or

household servants ; bachelors paying two pounds per head.
Suppose ten thousand menial servants :

Nine thousand eight hundred family menials, at ten shil-
lings per head, £4,900

Two hundred bachelor menials, at ten shillings per head, 400

£5,300

Mr. 95.] SPECIFIC TAXATION. -"7

Let there be, in addition to the Emposta granted to Oongr

Upon all rum of Jamaica proof, three pence.

Open all brandies of foreign manufacture, three pence.

Upon all other spirituous liquors of foreign manufacture, two

pence.
Upon all spirituous liquors distilled in any of the States, time

pence.
Molasses, one penny per gallon.
Upon every pound of bohea tea, threepence.

Upon ;ill other teas

I'pon Madeira wine, per gallon, twopence.

Upon all other wines, per gallon, one penny.

Upon loaf sugar, per pound, one penny.

Every pound of snuff, ten pence.

Every coach or chariot, ten pounds.

Every other four-wheeled carriage, five pounds.

Every curricle, chaise, chair, ketereen, or sulky, two pence.

Every bushel of malt, four pence.

Every gallon of porter, ale, beer, or cider, ten pence.

Every pound of cheese, two pence.

Wrought silver plate, per ounce, one shilling.

Wroughl gold plate, per ounce, four shilling

Every clock, twenty shillings.

Every ,Lrold watch, twenty shillings.

Every other watch, eight shilli:

Hollow iron ware, per one hundred pounds, four shillings.

Scythes, or Axes, per dozen, twelve shillings.

Saddles, per piece, eight shilli

Every pair woman's shoes, leather or stuff, six pence.

Every pair woman's silk shoes, one shilli

Every pair of boots, two shilli 1

Every pound of starch, or hair powder, three pence.

Every gallon of linseed oil, six pence.

Every pound of dressed or tanned Leather, four pence.

Every pack of playing cards, three penc .

White rope, twine, pipes, beef, pork, butter, cam ap,

anchors, bar iron, hats, raisins, prunes, figs, and currants, three

per cent, ad valorem.

208 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt.26.

Nails, per cwt.,

Upon all mahogany furniture, five per cent, ad valorem.

Upon all mahogany wood, three per cent., with a drawback in

case of exportation.
Upon all paper hangings, five per cent., ad valorem.

Let there be a tax upon houses.
For every log house three shillings per room (exclusive of gar-
rets and cellars).
For every other house of three rooms and under (exclusive as

before), four shillings per room.
For every other house of four rooms, five shillings per room.
For every house of five rooms, six shillings per room.
For every house of six rooms and upwards, eight shillings per

room.
For every room of any house painted on the wooden work

inside, five shillings additional per room.
For every room papered inside, ten shillings per room additional.
For every marble chimney piece, twenty shillings additional.
For every stucco roof, forty shillings additional.

This tax may be computed to produce forty thousand pounds.

Let there be a tax upon writs, to be paid by the lawyers, and
not allowed in taxable costs,

Of two shillings for each chancery and Supreme Court seal.
And one shilling for each County and Mayor's Court seal.

Let the Bank be incorporated on condition of lending one-
eighth of its income, on landed security, towards forming a loan
office.

PLAN OF A LOAN OFFICE.

The Interest of the two hundred thousand poands, £10,000

The tax on salt, 12,000

The tax on taverns, 2,000
Tobacco tax,

APPROPRIATION OF THE FOREGOING TAXES.

lstly. That upon land to the support of internal government.

JEt. 25.] SPECIFIC TAXATION 209

2dly. Seal tax and ) ,

8dly. House tax to Congress, for supplementary fund.

-Ithy. Sail tax, )

T.iwtii tax, - for constituting a loan office.

ToSacco tax, )
All the .surplus of these taxes, and amounl of the other te
to form an aggregate fund foT contingencii apply federal

treasury, etc.

MODE OF COLLECTION.

Land Tax.

The assessors of each district to meel od a day, and at a place,
certain in each year, to receive from the p rs of land

statement of the quantity of lands, specifying the duTerenl kinds
holden by him iu that district, thus:

Acres.

Meadow land,

Arable land,

W 1 or waste laud,

This statement to be made on oath (accord the best of

knowledge and belief to be administered b -i, and

to be entered in a book kept for thai purpose, in which shall be
carried out the amount <»r th'- tax; a copy of which, delivered to
the several collectors, signed by the or one of them,

shall be their warrant to collect.

As to such persons as do uot appear, thi irs to make an

estimate of their land, i ling to the best of their judgment
and belief.

And if they suspect concealment, they shall order a sun
and in case it be found that the Jmenl to the extenl

of one acre in twenty, the survey shall be at the expense ol
party, to be added to his tax of the succeeds . id fur-

ther, the part} shall be liable to forfeit, to be recovered in an
action of debt, forty shillings for every acre concealed, if Buch
concealment shall appeal to the jury, tO DAVi been D ugh

B 14

210 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 25.

ignorance or mistake, but with intent to defraud the revenue.
If concealment not found to that extent, expense of survey shall
be by public, to be paid by treasurer, upon a certificate from two
of the assessors.

A day certain, in each year, to be fixed for the, payment of
the tax ; and if not paid at the time, the collector shall immedi-
ately distrain ; to proceed in the mode practised in case of dis-
tress for rent, with the same penalties for rescue, etc. ; and no
replevin without first paying the money.

And where no sufficient distress can be found, to be re-
covered by action of debt.

House Tax until provided for by Congress.

The collector of each ward, precinct, or district, to visit each
house once in a year, or some day between the and

the of ; and make a list of the different

kinds of rooms upon which he shall calculate the amount of the
tax.

This tax to be also paid on a day certain, different, and at
some distance, from the day for payment of the land tax ; and to
be collected in the same manner as land tax.

In case the possessor of the house shall have any dispute
with the collector about the descriptions of any of the rooms, he
may appeal to the assessors at their aforesaid meeting, who shall
examine the party and the collector on oath, and decide as shall
appear to them right.

Salt, Tobacco, and other enumerated articles.

To be collected in the present mode of collecting the cus-
toms, except that one year shall be allowed for payment of
the additional duties ; at the end of which all drawbacks shall
be discounted.

Carriage Tax. Servant Tax.
Collector, at the time he visits the houses, to take a list, from

;ET. 25.] SPECIFIC 'I' A NATION. 211

the information oi the persons in the bouses, of the carriages and
menial servants.

Bach person, having carriagea and menial servants, shall
obliged to give sucli information, under the penalty of tw<
pom als for concealment of each carriage and servant; to be re-
covered by action of debt, foT the benefil of the informer.

These taxes to be collected at the same t inn-, ami in the same
manner, with the house tax.

Seal Tax.

To be paid at the time of sealing the writs, ami accounted tin-,

once a year, 1\ tin- persons having custody of the sc;il>. to the
county treasurer, who will themselves be chargeable with ;i :
on every seal put t<> any process.

N. 13. All lulls of cost to be taxed by the Clerk of the Court;
and the fee for taxing to be accounied for in the same manner to
the county treasurers.

The fees for seals, and for taxing bills of cost in the Supreme
Court and Chancery, to be accounted for to the treasurer "i the
State.

Tavern Tax.

The treasurer of the State to furnish each county treasurer
with a certain number of licenses, expressive of the different
purposes; for which he shall charge such county treasurer, who
shall deliver out the licenses to the supervisors in equal pro-
portions, charging each for his proportion. And the super-
visors to deliver them out to the persons applying and paying
for them.

Once in each year the supervisors to aeeounl with the county
treasurer, and to be charged with all the blank licences they do
not then return.

Th<' same to take place between the county treasurer and the
State treasurer; who shall be chargeable in like manner, tu
in case of insolvency of supervisors, to be proved to the satis-
faction of a jury.

212 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 25.

EESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS.

December 6, 1782.

Besolved, That the Superintendent of Finance be, and he is
hereby directed to represent to the Legislatures of the several
States, the indispensable necessity for their complying with the
requisitions of Congress, for raising 1,200,000 dollars, for paying
a year's interest of the domestic debt of the United States, and
2,000,000 of dollars towards defraying the expenses of the esti-
mate for the ensuing year ; and the inconveniences, embarrass-
ments, and injuries to the public service, which will arise from
the States, individually making appropriations of any part of the
said 2,000,000 of dollars, or of any other moneys required by
the United States in Congress assembled ; assuring them withal,
that Congress are determined to make the fullest justice to the
public creditors an invariable object of their counsels and ex-
ertions ; that a deputation be sent to the State of Rhode Island,
for the purpose of making a full and just representation of the
public affairs of the United States, and of urging the absolute
necessity of a compliance with the resolution of Congress, of the
3d day of February, 1781, respecting the duty on Imports and
Prizes, as a measure essential to the safety and reputation of
these States.

SINKING FUND

December 16, 1782.

Whereas, It is essential to justice and to the preservation of
public credit, that whenever a nation is obliged, by the exigencies
of public affairs, to contract a debt, proper funds should be

JSi. 98.] aBSOLUTIONS in CONORB88. 818

established, not only for paying the annual value

the same, bu1 for discharging the principal within a reasons

period, by which a nation may avoid the evils of an

accumulation of debl ; therefore,

I: wived, That whenever the ne1 product of any funds, re-
commended by Congress and granted by the State
the debl already contracted, or for procuring further Loans
the support of the war, shall exceed the sum requisite for pay-
ing the interest of the whole amount of the national debt, wl
these States may owe at the termination of the present war; l
surplus of such grants shall form a Sinking Fund, and be in.
lably appropriated to the payment of the principal of the said
debt, and shall on no account be diverted to any other purpose.
And in order that the several States may have proper informa-
tion of the state of their finances, it is further

Resolved, That as soon as the public debt can be liquidated,
each State be annually furnished with the amount thereof', and
of the interest thereon; and also of the proceeds and disposil
of the funds provided for the redemption thereof

That the faith of the United States he pledged for the obser-
vance of the foregoing resolutions, and that if any State shall
think it may he necessary to make it a condition of their grants,
the same will he considered by Conj rith the

resolution of the L';:d February, L781.

REPORT ON [MPOST IU'TY.

By the United States in ( •''<</. December L6, 1782.

The Committee, consisting of Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Mad:
and Mr. Fitzsimmons, to whom was referred die letter of the
thirtieth of November, from the Bonorable William Bradford,
Speaker of the lower Souse of Assemblj of the State oi I
Island, containing, under three heads, the reasons of thai :
for refusing their compliance with the recommend I
gross for a duty on imports and pria is, report:

214 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 25.

That they flatter themselves the State, on a reconsideration
of the objections they have offered, with a candid attention to
the arguments which stand in opposition to them, will be in-
duced to retract their dissent, convinced that the measure is sup-
ported on the most solid grounds of equal justice, policy, and
general utility. The following observations, contrasted with
each head of the objections, successively, will furnish a satisfac-
tory answer to the whole.

First objection. " That the proposed duty would be unequal
in its operation, bearing hardest upon the most commercial States,
and so would press peculiarly hard upon that State which draws
its chief support from commerce."

The most common experience, joined to the concurrent
opinions of the ablest commercial and political observers, have
established, beyond controversy, this general principle: "That
every duty on imports is incorporated with the price of the com-
modity, and ultimately paid by the consumer, with a profit on
the duty itself, as a compensation to the merchant for the ad-
vance of his money."

The merchant considers the duty demanded by the State on
the imported article, in the same light with freight or any simi-
lar charge, and, adding it to the original cost, calculates his pro-
fit on the aggregate sum. It may happen that, at particular
conjunctures, where the markets are overstocked, and there is a
competition among the sellers, this may not be practicable ; but,
in the general course of trade, the demand for consumption pre-
ponderates ; and the merchant can with ease indemnify himself,
and even obtain a profit on the advance. As a consumer, he
pays his share of the duty, but it is no further a burthen upon
him. The consequence of the principle laid down, is, that every
class of the community bears its share of the duty in proportion
to its consumption ; which last is regulated by the comparative
wealth of the respective classes, in conjunction with their habits
of expense or frugality. The rich and luxurious pay in propor-
tion to their riches and luxury ; the poor and parsimonious, in
proportion to their poverty and parsimony. A chief excellence
of this mode of revenue, is, that it preserves a just measure to

JEt. 95.] IMPOST I» I T ^ 215

the abilities of individuals, promotes frugahl

mce. The Bame reasoning, in our situation, applies to the
intercourse between two States: if one imports and the other
does not, the latter must be supplied by the former. The d

being transferred to the pri< f the commodity, is no mon

charge on the importing Stair for whal is consumed in the
other, than it is a charge on the merchanl for whal is con-
sumed by the Sinner or artificer. Either State will only fi
burthen in a rati > to its consumption 5 and this will be in a ratio
to its population and wealth. What happens between the dif-
ferenl Glasses of the same community, internally happens between
the two States; and as the merchant, in the first case, so
from losing the duty himself, has a profit on the money he ad-
vances for that purpose; so the importing State, which, in the
second case, is the merchanl with respeel to the other, is not
only reimbursed by the non-inij State, but has a like

tent on the duty advanced.

It is, therefore, the reverse of a just position, thai the duty pro-
posed will bear hardest on the most commercial States: it will,
if any thing, have a contrary effect, though not in a sumcienl
gree to justify an objection on the part of the non-import
States. For it is as reasonable they should allow an advance on

•aid as on the firsl cost, freight, or any incidental chai
They have also other advantages in the measure, fully equivalent
to this disadvantage. Over nice and minute calculations, in mat-
ters of this nature, are inconsistenl with national measures, and, in

the imp'')! te of human affairs, would Btagnate all the oper-

ations of government Absolute equality is nol to be attained:
to aim at it, is pursuing a shad the expense of the sub-

stance; and, in the event, we should find ourselves wider of the
mark, than if, in the firsl instance, we were content to appr<
it with moderation.

S md Objection. ''That the r >mmendation p - to

introduce into that and the. .tie' - ficers unknown and

unaccountable to them, and so insl th 1 stitution of the

te."

It is not to be presumed that the Constitution of ai

216 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 25.

could mean to define and fix the precise numbers and descrip-
tions of all officers to be permitted in the State, excluding the
creation of any new ones, whatever might be the necessity de-
rived from that variety of circumstances incident to all political
institutions. The Legislature must always have a discretionary
power of appointing officers, not expressly known to the Consti-
tution ; and this power will include that of authorizing the Fed-
eral Government to make the appointments in cases where the
general welfare may require it. The denial of this would prove
too much : to wit, that the power given by the Confederation to
Congress, to appoint all officers in the post-office, was illegal and
unconstitutional.

The doctrine advanced by Ehode Island would, perhaps,
prove also, that the Federal Government ought to have the ap-
pointment of no internal officers whatever ; a position that would
defeat all the provisions of the Confederation, and all the pur-
poses of the Union. The truth is, that no Federal Constitution
can exist without powers that, in their exercise, affect the internal
police of the component members. It is equally true, that no
government can exist without a right to appoint officers for those
purposes which proceed from, and concentre in, itself: and there-
fore the Confederation has expressly declared, that Congress shall
have authority to appoint all such " civil officers as may be ne-
cessary for managing the general affairs of the United States
under their direction." All that can be required, is, that the
Federal Government confine its appointments to such as it is em-
powered to make by the original act of union, or by the subse-
quent consent of the parties. Unless there should be express
words of exclusion in the Constitution of a State, there can be
no reason to doubt that it is within the compass of legislative
discretion to communicate that authority.

The propriety of doing it upon the present occasion, is
founded on substantial reasons.

The measure proposed is a measure of necessity. Eepeated
experiments have shown, that the revenue to be raised within
these States, is altogether inadequate to the public wants. The
deficiency can only be supplied by loans. Our applications to

iE-r. 25.] 1 M POST DUT Y. -17

the foreign powers, on whose friendship we depend, have bad :i
success far short of our uecessities. The uexl reso irce is to I
row from individuals. These will neither be actuated by gener-
osity nor reasons iA' state 'Tifi bo their Lnteresl alone •■
appeal. To conciliate this, we must doI only stipulate a pro
compensation for what they lend, hut we mus1 give security for
the performance, Wemusl pledge an ascertained fund;
and productive in its nature, general in its principle, and al I
disposal of a single will. There can be little confidence in a
curitv under the constant revisaJ of thirteen differenl delib
tives. It must, once for all, be defined and established on the
faith of the States solemnly pledged to each other, and not revo-
cable by any without a breach of the general compact.

"I'is by such expedients thai nations, whose resources are un-
derstood, whose reputations and governments are erected on the
foundation of ages, are enabled to obtain a solid and extensive
credit. Would it be reasonable in us to hope for more <
terms, who have so recently assumed our rank among the na-
tions? Is it not to be expected, that individuals will be cautious
in Lending their money to a people in our circumsl and

that they will at least require the besl security we can gr

We have an enemy vigilant, intriguing, well acquainted with
our defects and embarrassments. We may expect that he will
make every effort to instil diffidences into individuals; and. in
the present posture of our internal affairs, he will have too plau-
sible ground on which to tread. Our necessities have obliged us
to embrace measures, with respect to OUT public credit, calculated
to inspire distrust. The prepo os on this article must na-

turally be against us, and it is therefore indispensable we should
endeavor to remove them, by such means as will be the most ob-
vious and striking.

It was with these views I determined on era!

fund; and the one they have recommended must, upon a tho-
rough examination, appear to have fewer Lnconveni than
any other.

It has been remarked, as an essential part of the plan, that the
fund should depend on a single will. This will not i

218 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 25.

unless the collection, as well as the appropriation, is under the
control of the United States ; for it is evident, that after the duty
is agreed upon, it may, in a great measure, be defeated by an in-
effectual mode of levying it. The United States have a common
interest in a uniform and equally energetic collection ; and not
only policy, but justice to all the parts of the Union, designates
the utility of lodging the power of making it where the interest
is common. Without this, it might, in reality, operate as a very
unequal tax.

Third Objection. " That by granting to Congress a power to
collect moneys from the commerce of these States, indefinitely as
to time and quantity, and for the expenditure of which they are
not to be accountable to the States, they would become indepen-
dent of their constituents ; and so the proposed impost is repug-
nant to the liberty of the United States."

Admitting the principle of this objection to be true, still it
ought to have no weight in the present case, because there is no
analogy between the principle and the fact.

Firstly. The fund proposed is sufficiently definite as to time,
because it is only co-extensive with the existence of the debt con-
tracted, and to be contracted, in the course of the war. Congress
are persuaded that it is as remote from the intention of their con-
stituents to perpetuate that debt, as to extinguish it at once by a
faithless neglect of providing the means to fulfil the public en-
gagements. Their ability to discharge it in a moderate time, can
as little be doubted as their inclination ; and the moment that
debt ceases, the duty, so far as respects the present provision,
ceases with it.

The resolution recommending the duty, specifies the object of
it to be the discharge of the principal and interest of the debts
already contracted, or which may be contracted, on the faith of
the United States for supporting the present war.

Secondly. The rate per cent, is fixed ; and it is not at the op-
tion of the United States to increase it. Though the product will
vary according to the variations in trade, yet, as there is this
limitation of the rate, it cannot be properly said to be indefinite
as to quantity.

JEt. i IMPOST DUTY. 219

By the Confederation, Congress have an absolute discretion
in determining the quantum of revenue requisite for the national
expenditure. When this is done, nothing remains for the St;
separately, bul the mode "I' raising. No State can dispute the
obligation to pay the sum demanded, withoul :t breach of the
Confederation ; and when the money comes Into the treasury, the
appropriation is the exclusive province of the Fcederal Govern-
ment. This provision of the Confederation (withoul which
would be an empty form) comprehends in it the principle, in its
fullest latitude, which the Objection under consideration treat*
repugnant to the liberty of the United States; to wit, an indefi-
nite power of prescribing the quantity of money to be raise,], and
of appropriating it when raised.

If it be said that the State,, individually, having the collec-
tion in their own hands, may refuse a compliance with exorbitant
demands, the Confederation will answer, that this is a point of
which they h;ive no constitutional liberty to judge. Such a
rasal would he an exertion of power, not of right ; and the same
power which could disregard a requisition made on the authority
of the Confederation, might at any time arrest the collection of
the dutv.

The same kind of responsibility which exist-, with respect to
the expenditure of money furnished in the firms hitherto prac-
tised, would he equally applicable to the revenue from the im-
ports.

The truth is, the security intended to tin' general liberty in
tin' Confederation, consists in the frequent election, and in the
rotation of, the members of Congress, by which then son-

stant and an effectual check upon them. This is the security

which the people in every State enjoy against the usurpation- of

their internal governments; and it is the true source of security
in a representative republic. The government, so constituted,
ought to have the means necessary to answer the end of its insti-
tution. By weakening its hands to,, much, it may he rendered
incapable of providing for the interior harmony, or t:
defence of, the State.

The measure in question, it' not within the Lett within

220 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[JEt. 25.

the spirit of the Confederation. Congress, by that, are empow-
ered to borrow money for the use of the United States ; and, by
implication, to concert the means necessary to accomplish the
end. But without insisting upon this argument, if the Confede-
ration has not made proper provision for the exigencies of the
States, it will be at all times the duty of Congress to suggest fur-
ther provisions : and when their proposals are submitted to the
unanimous consent of the States, they can never be charged with
exceeding the bounds of their trust. Such a consent is the basis
and sanction of the Confederation, which expressly, in the thir-
teenth article, empowers Congress to agree to, and propose, such
additional provision.

The remarks hitherto made, have had reference, principally,
to the future prosecution of the war. There still remains an
interesting light in which the subject ought to be viewed.

The United States have already contracted a debt in Europe,
and in this country, for which their faith is pledged. The capi-
tal of this debt can only be discharged by degrees : but a fund
for this purpose, and for paying the interest annually, on every
principle of policy and justice, ought to be provided. The
omission will be the deepest ingratitude and cruelty to a large
number of meritorious individuals, who, in the most critical
periods of the war, have adventured their fortunes in support of
our independence. It would stamp the national character with
indelible disgrace.

An annual provision for the purpose will be too precarious.
If its continuance and application were certain, it would not af-
ford complete relief. With many, the regular payment of in-
terest, by occasional grants, would suffice; but with many more
it would not. These want the use of the principal itself; and
they have a right to it: but since it is not in our power to pay
off the principal, the next expedient is to fund the debt, and ren-
der the evidences of it negotiable.

Besides the advantage to individuals from this arrangement,
the active stock of the nation would be increased by the whole
amount of the domestic debt, and of course the abilities of the
community to contribute to the public wants: the national credit
would revive and stand hereafter on a secure basis

JEt. 95.] [MPO ST D 0 T V . 221

This was another object of the proposed duty.

If it be conceded thai a similar fund is ae< . it can hardly

be disputed that the one recommended is the mosl eligil
It has been already Bhown, thai it affects all parts of the commu-
nity in proportion to their consumption, and has therefore the
besl pretensions to equality. It is the most agreeable tax to the
people that can be imposed, because It is paid insensibly, and

mis to be voluntary.

It may, perhaps, be imagined that it is unfavorable to com-
merce; bul t he contrary can easily be demonstrated. It I
been Been that it does not diminish the prolit of the merchant,
and of course can be no diminution of his inducements to
trade. It is too moderate in its amount to discourage the con-
sumption of imported goods, and cannot, on that account, abridge
the extent of importations. If it even had this effect, it would
be an advantage to commerce, by lessening the proportion of
our imports to our exports, and inclining the balance in favor
of this country.

The principal tiling to be consulted for the advancement of
commerce, is to promote exports. All impediments to th
either by way of prohibition, or by increasing the prices of native
commodities, decreasing by that means their sale and consump-
tion at foreign markets, are injurious. Duties on exports have
this operation. For the same reason, taxes on pos is, and

the articles of our own growth or manufacture, whether in the form
of a land tax, ex r any other, are more hurtful to trade

than impost duties. The tendency of all such taxes is to incn
the prices of those articles which are the objects of exportation,
and to enable others to undersell us abroad. The farmer, if he
pays a heavy land tax, must endeavor to get more for the pro-
ducts of his farm; the mechanic and laborer, if they find the
necessaries of life grow dearer by an excise, must endeavor to
exact higher wages: and these causes will produce an increas
prices within, and operate against foreign commerce.

It is not, however, to be inferred, thai the whole revenue
ought to be drawn from imports; all extremes are to be n
The chief thing to be attended to, is, that the weight of the t;

222 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 25.

fall not too heavily, in the first instance, upon particular parts of
the community. A judicious distribution to all kinds of taxable
property, is a first principle in taxation. The tendency of these
observations is only to show, that taxes on possessions, on arti-
cles of our own growth and manufacture, are more prejudicial to
trade than duties on imports.

The observations which conclude the letter on which these
remarks are made, naturally lead to reflections that deserve the
serious attention of every member of the Union. There is a
happy mean between too much confidence and excessive jealousy,
in which the health and prosperity of a State consist. Either
extreme is a dangerous vice. The first is a temptation, to men
in power, to arrogate more than they have a right to ; the latter
enervates government, prevents system in the administration
defeats the most salutary measures, breeds confusion in the State
disgusts and discontents among the people, and may eventually
prove as fatal to liberty as the opposite temper.

It is certainly pernicious to leave any government in a situa-
tion of responsibility disproportioned to its power.

The conduct of the war is intrusted to Congress, and the
public expectation turned upon them without any competent
means at their command to satisfy the important trust. After
the most full and solemn deliberation, under a collective
view, of all the public difiiculties, they recommended a measure
which appears to them the corner-stone of the public safety :
they see this measure suspended for nearly two years ; partially
complied with by some of the States; rejected by one of them,
and in danger, on that account, to be frustrated ; the public em-
barrasments every day increasing; the dissatisfaction of the
army growing more serious ; the other creditors of the public
clamoring for justice; both irritated by the delay of measures
for their present relief or future security ; the hopes of our ene-
mies encouraged to protract the war /the zeal of our friends
depressed by an appearance of remissness and want of exertion
on our part; Congress harassed; the national character suffer-
ing ; and the national safety at the mercy of events.

This state of things cannot but be extremely painful to Con-

iET.25.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS. 223

gross; and appear to your Oommitte to make it tJieir duty to

urgent, to obviate the evils with which it is pregnant.

Resolved, That Congress agree to the said report

AS TO FURTHER PROVISION For THE PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON

THE PUBLIC DEBT.

December, 1782.

h'rsn/mt, That a Committee he appointed to consider what fur-
ther and other provision may be made for discharging the inter-
est that is, or may be, due on loan office certificates, and other
liquidated debts of the I'niti-d States, and be also directed to re-
vise the requisition for the service of the preceding and present
year, and to report -whether the same ought to be cunt inued or
altered.

COMPENSATION TO BARON DE STEUBEN.

December 80, 17v-

The Committee, consisting of Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Clark, and
Mr. Carroll, to whom was referred a letter of the 5th from Ma or
General the Baron de Steuben, haying conferred with him there-
upon, submit to the consideration of Congress the following fa
resulting from the communications made to them, supported by
the testimonials of the Commander-in-Chief, and many other
principal officers of the army.

1st. That the Baron de Steuben was in Europe \ d of

respectable military rank, and different posts of honor and ei
lument, which he relinquished to come to America, and offer his
services at a critical period of the war. and without any previ
stipulations.

2dly. That on his arrival, he actually engaged in the army in

224 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 25.

a very disinterested manner, and without compensations similar
to those which had been made to several other foreign officers.

3dly. That under singular difficulties and embarrassments in
the department in which he has been employed, he has rendered
very important and substantial services, by introducing into the
army a regular formation and exact discipline, and by establish-
ing a spirit of order and ceconomy in the interior administration
of the regiments, which, besides other advantages, have been
productive of immense savings to the United States. That, in
the command in which he has been employed, he has on all oc-
casions conducted himself like a brave and experienced officer.
The Committee are therefore of opinion, that the sacrifices and
services justly entitle him to the distinguished notice of Congress,
and to a generous compensation, whenever the situation of public
affairs will admit. The Committee further report that the Baron
de Steuben has considerable arrearages of pay due to him from
these States on a liquidated account, and that having exhausted
his resources in past expenses, it is now indispensable that a sum
of money should be paid him for his present support, and to
enable him to take the field another campaign, and propose that
the sum of $2-100 be paid to him for that purpose, and charged
to his account aforesaid.

VALUATION OF LANDS AND A CENSUS.

January 6, 1783.

Resolved, That in order to enable Congress to form an eventual
plan towards carrying into execution the eighth article of the
Confederation, the several States be required to pass laws for
forming or dividing their respective States into such districts as
they judge most convenient for procuring an accurate valuation
of the lands, and of the buildings and improvements thereon, and
to appoint commissioners in each district to return to them the
quantity of land in such district, the quantity surveyed, the

Mr. 26.] RESOLUTIONS |\ CONGRESS. 225

quantity in actual occupation, the general quality of the land, the
number and kind of buildings, the average rate .-it which lands
under improvement, and lands unimproved, are usually sold in

m district, and also an i ounl of the males between sixti

and sixty, distinguishing the whites from the blacks within t
district, and that the executive of each State transmil Buch re-
turns to Co 3 on or before the first day of January, 17

QUARTER-MASTER GEXKHAL's DEPARTMENT.

January 0. 1783.

The Committee to whom were referred the letter from the
Quarter-Master General of the 4th December last, have conferred
with him, find thi ii, .us omissions in the plan adopt. 1

by Congress the 23d of October last, for regulating the Quarter-

rter's Department, and are of opinion that some of the sala-
ries of particular officers therein are reduced too low.

They therefore recommend that the Resolutions of the afore-
said 23d of October be repealed, and the following plan be sub-
stituted in their plac

REGULATIONS FOR THE QUAETBE-MASTEB GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT.

That the resolve of Congress of the 23d October last be repealed
and the following regulations adopted in its stead.

Resolved, That there be one Quarter-Master General, who, on every
vacancy, shall be appointed by Congress.

That the Quarter-Master General, with the approbation of the Com-
mander-in-Chief, appoint the following officers for the armies of the
United States.

Fbr the Main Army,

One Deputy Quarter-Master.

One Commissary of Forage.

One Wagon Blaster.

One Director, i . . . .„

One Sub-Director, \ of a coniPany of Art.ficers.

B 15
a
75

u
75

'.i
60

t:
75

a
50

u
226 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 26.

.For a Separate Army.

One Deputy Quarter-Master.

One Deputy Commissary of Forage.

One Deputy Wagon-Master.

One Director, and ) c c K ,-a

One Sub-Director j ofa COmPaQy of Artlficers-

Provided that this shall only operate in future appointments, and
not derange the company of Artificers at present formed in the South-
ern Army, under the resolution of 29th March, 1781.

And as many Assistants, Clerks, Forage-Masters, and Wagon Con-
ductors, as the service may require.

That the pay and rations of the officers above-mentioned, including
their pay and rations in the line of the army, shall be as follows :

Quarter-Master General, . $250 per month, 15 rations per day.

Deputy with a separate army,

Deputy with the main army,

Commissary of Forage,

Deputy with a separate army,

Wagon-Master,

Deputy with a separate army,

Assistant Quarter-Master.

One principal in a separate army, $50 per month, 3 rations per day.

All others not exceeding

Clerks, each,

Directors of Artificers, each,

Sub-Directors, each,

Forage-Masters, each,

Wagon Conductors, each, .

That the following be the proportion of wagons and led horses to
the different ranks of officers, unless otherwise directed in special cases
by the Commander-in-Chief, or commanding officer of a separate corps.

The Commander-in-Chief, and Commanding Officer of a separate
army, for themselves and families, as many as they may find ne-
cessary.

Major-General and family, one covered four-horse wagon, and one
open two-horse wagon.

Brigadier-General and family, one covered four-horse wagon.

Field Officers of a Regiment, or other corps, one covered four-horse
wagon.

Field Officers of Engineers, as near as may be, in the same pro-
portion. r

Captains and Subalterns of a Regiment, or other corps, one covered
four-horse wagon, and one open four-horse wagon.

. 40

a
. 30

i.
. 40

a
. 30

U

o

. 20

u
. 20

a
JEt. 26.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS. 227

Surgeon and Mate, Paymaster, Adjutant and Qoartor ' one

covered four-horse wagon.

Brigade Chaplain, Major ami Quarter-Master, on
horse wagon.

Every hundred men, for their tents, bul to 1"- varied aooordii
the weight of the tint- ami state of the roads, one open four-fa
wagon.

• Quarter-Master (icneral. for himself, as many as he shall find as
ccssary.

Deputy (Quarter-Master, in a Beparate army, tie' Bame

Commissary of forage ami Clerks, urn' oovered two hoi in.

Deputy Commissary of Forage and Clerk-. .1..

Wagon-Master and Clerks, do.

Deputy Wagon-Master and Clerks, do.

Assistant Quarter-Master, who is storekeeper for himself and
clerks, do.

Each company of Artificers, for tin ir tent- ami baggage, do.

[nspeetor-General, for himself ami family, one covered four-li
wagon, and one coven d two horse, and one open two-horse wagon

Adjutant-General and assistants, one covered four-horse wagon,
one covered two-horse wagon, ami one open twodiorse wagon.

Deputy Adjutant-Ceneral and assistant, one i fuur-horse

wagon

Jml_'<' Advocate, one covered two-horse wagon.

Deputy Judge-Advocate, with a separate army, one covered two-
horse wagon.

Commissary *<[' Prisoners, one covered two-horse wagon.

Deputy do., a separate army. do.

Provost Marshal, with pi and guard, one open four k

wagon

Field Commissary of Military Stores, with his clerks and conduct-
ors, "ne covered two-horse wagon.

Deputy do., for a separate army, with clerks and conductors, one
do. two-horse wagon.

Deputy Paymaster, with the main or a separate army, one do. two-
horse wagon.

Field Postmaster, one-horse wag in each.

Each Geographer, with his assistant, oni vered two-horse wagon.

Direotox of Military Hospitals, one oovered two-hoi in.

Physician, Hospital Surgeons, and Mat'.-, with the main army, one
covered four-horse-waggon.

Deputy Director, one oovered two-horse wagon.

Hospital Surgeons and Mates, with a Beparate army, one cov
two-horse wagon.

Hospital Steward and attendant- with each army, one open I
horse wagon.

Provided, that if the Dumber of wagons allotted above b!
prove insufficient, the (juarter-M ral may occasionally fur-

228 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 26.

nish such additional carriages as the Commander-in-Chief, or chief
Commanding Officer of a separate army, or the Secretary at War,
may direct.

That no military or staff officer shall own, or be in any manner in-
terested in any boat, shallop, wagon, or other carriage, horse, or team,
employed, on hire or contract, in the service of the United States.

That a ration of forage shall consist of fourteen pounds of hay, and
eight quarts of oats, or other grain equivalent, for a saddle-horse ; and
of sixteen pounds of hay and twelve quarts of oats, or other grain equi-
valent, for a wagon-horse per day.

That there be issued to the Commander-in-Chief, and to the com-
manding officer of a separate army, and to those of their suite, as many
rations as the service may require.

That for saddle-horses there be allowed —

To a Major-General and family, seven rations.

Brigadier-General and do., five.

Brigade Major and Chaplain, each one.

Field Officers, of whatsoever corps, each two.

Regimental Surgeons, Paymaster, Adjutant, Quarter-Masters, each
one.

Captains and subalterns of Engineers, each one.

Captains and subalterns of the mounted troops of Dragoons, each
one.

Quarter-Master General, as the service may require.

Deputy, with a separate army, the same.

Deputy, with the main army, two rations.

Principal assistant, with a separate army, two.

All other assistants, each one.

Commissary of Forage, two.

Each of his clerks, one.

Deputy, with a separate army, two.

Clerks, each one.

Forage-Masters, each one.

Wagon-Master, two.

Clerk, one.

Deputy Wagon-Master, with a separate army, two.

Clerk. J

Wagon Conductors, each one.

Inspectors, in addition to what they draw in the line, each one.

Assistant Inspectors, each one.

Adjutant-General, three.

Deputy Adjutant-General, with a separate army, three.

Assistants to the Adjutant and Deputy Adjutant-General, each one.

Commissary of Prisoners, two.

Deputy, with a separate army, two.

Other Deputies, each one.

Judge-Advocate, two.

Deputy, with a separate army, one.

^Et. 26.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS. 229

Deputy, with the main army, one,

Field Commissary of Military Stores, two.

Deputy, with ;i separate army, two.

Pejmty Paymaster, one.

Field Paymaster, one.

Geographers, each two.

Assistant ilu, each one.

Director of Military Hospital, two.

Deputy, with a separate army, two.

Physician to the army, two.

Hospital Surgeons, each one.

That any of the officers entitled to forage, who shall keep their
horses at their own expense, shall be paid therefor, by the Quarter-
ly >tor General, at the average price given by him for the forage of the
army.

Resolved, That the Quarter-Master General, with the approbation of
the Secretary at War. shall appoint so many assistants, to reside in the
several States, as the service may require.

That all officers in the Quarter-Master General's Department, of
whatever denomination, shall take the oaths of allegiance and the oath
of office prescribed by Congress, before they enter on business.

That the Quarter-Master General make a return of the name and
station of each person to be appointed in his department.

That in settling the accounts of officers in the said department, no
pay or allowance whatever be granted to any person employed therein,
whose name and employment, together with a certificate of his having
taken the aforesaid oaths, shall not have been returned within two
months after the acceptance of such office.

ABMY MEMORIAL.

January 26 1783.

The Grand Committee, consisting of a member from each
State, report: That they have considered the contents of a me-
morial, presented by tihe army, and find that they comprehend
five different articles. "1st Presentpay. 2d. A. settlement of
accounts of the arrearages of pay and security for what is due.
3d. A ( limitation of the half-pay, allowed by differenl resolu-
tions of Congress, for an equivalent in gross. 4th. A
menl of the accounts of deficencies of rations and compensation.
5th. A settlement of the accounts of deficencies oi i loth
compensation." Whereupon,

230 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 26.

Resolved, As to the first — that the Superintendent of Finance
be directed, conformably to the measures already taken for that
purpose, as soon as the state of the public finances will permit,
to make such payment, and in such manner, as he shall think
proper, until the further order of Congress.

Resolved, With respect to the second article — so far as re-
lates to the settlement of accounts — that the several States be
called upon to complete, without delay, the settlement with their
respective lines of the army, up to the first day of August, 1780,
and that the Superintendent of Finance be directed to take such
measures as shall appear to him most proper for effecting the
settlement from that period.

As to what relates to the providing of security for what
shall be found due on such settlement,

Resolved, That the troops of the United States, in common
with all the creditors of the same, have an undoubted right to
expect such security ; and that Congress will make every effort
in their power to obtain from the respective States substantial
funds, adequate to the object of funding the whole debt of the
United States, and will enter upon an immediate and full con-
sideration of the nature of such funds, and the most likely mode
of obtaining them.

REPORT BY HAMILTON OF A COMMITTEE UPON THE MEMORIALS
OF THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENN-
SYLVANIA, OF THE 28TH OF AUGUST, AND 12TH OF NOVEM-
BER LAST.

January 30, 1783.
The Committee of the 28th August, states that their con-
stituents labor under grievances, because they are not enabled to
settle their accounts against the United States, and because they
cannot obtain payment of the debts due to them by the public,
nor receive interest on loan-office certificates, dated subsequent
to the month of February, 1778. It states further, that appre-

JEr.-2>;.\ RESOLUTIONS i\ CONGBE88 281

hensions bad taken place, that the interest on certifi I
prior date would be suspended; thai other Stal I

were making provision for ascertaining and paj sundry
debts <lut' to their citizens, and that the suspension of debts com*
plained of, was a material impediment t<» the collection ol
after which follows a request, that Congress will be i
devise and recommend such general plan, as they Bhall think
adequate and effectual, for settling and ascertaining the on-
liquidated debts of the I'nited States, and for paying th<
or at least some pari thereof, and also for the regular and pu
tual payment «»t' the lnteresi on all the public debts, as well oa
Loan as otherwise, until the principal shall finally he discharg

The subsequenl memorial of the L2th November, after n
ring particularly to the former, and observing that the hnsiness
was yet nueileeted, declares the assembly to l.e deeply impressed
with the absolute necessity, that speedy and effectual mi
be taken to afford reliei to the public creditors, at least -
to liquidate and ascertain their respective claims, and to
to them the payment of the interest due thereon, until the prin-
cipal he discharged; and then requests, thai C 98
pleased to give them such information as will enable the Ho
to judge what steps it may he proper to take, in order to afford
that effectual relief to the public creditors in Pennsylvania,
which they conceive it to he their indispensable duty to procure.

On these memorials Congress remark:

That the objects to which they relate musl i rily de-
pend on the compliances of the several States with the req
tions of Congress. That th<' interest payable by hills of ex-
change on Loan-offi tertificates, continued until a': expi

declaration made to Congress, that those who should draw '
for thai purpose, musl provide for the payment <<\' them. That
Congress are not informed of any State which has taken sepai
measures for satisfying its own citizens, who are public credit-
ors; and that there docs not appear a possibility of making such

a private and partial provision, because the various eerl

are principally made payable to the hearer of them, and h
been transferred and negotiated. A provision tor them by any

232 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 26.

State must therefore exclude the demands of many of its own
citizens, or admit the demands of all.

That the attempts to pay any of the past debts would form
so heavy a deduction from the greatest revenue which can be
raised, as would totally obstruct all present service. Wherefore,
the provision to be made at present, ought to be confined to the
interest of the public debts. That such provision would afford
eventual relief to the public creditors, and enable them to sup-
port their share of the public burthens, without appropriating
the whole revenue, which can be drawn from the people, to a
payment of debts, and leaving thereby the public service unpro-
vided for, which would involve the ruin of all ranks, whether
creditors or others.

That Congress are, and have been long impressed with the
absolute necessity, that speedy and effectual measures should be
taken; first, to liquidate and ascertain the public debts, and,
secondly, to secure the payment of the interest, until the princi-
pal could be discharged, as will appear from the following
facts :

That for the first of these essential objects, Congress had
made provision by their Acts of the 20th and 27th of February
last, and have reason to believe, from the information contained
in a letter, from the office of Finance, dated the 3d of December
following, and the report of a committee thereon (both which are
annexed), that the plan adopted will speedily be in an effectual
train of execution throughout the United States. That the duty
of five per cent, was recommended by Congress so early as the 3d
of February, 1781 ; but after a delay of near two years, Congress
have the mortification to find, that one State entirely refuses its
concurrence ; that another has withdrawn its assent once given,
and that a third has returned no answer.

That when Congress received the determination of the State
of Ehode Island on that subject, they resolved to send a solemn
deputation to that State, to induce a reconsideration of the mea-
sure. At the moment when the committee were about to de-
part, intelligence was received, that Virginia had repealed the
act formerly passed on that recommendation, which has placed

jEt. ae.] RESOLUTIONS |\ CONGRESS. 888

the business oti a new ground, and compelled Con to take

it up in a more extensive view.

The inability of Congress to perform the engagements taken
with the public creditors will readily appear, when if is conav
dered how defective have been the compliances of the States in
every period of the war. Without recurring t<> details previous
to the year L782, it will be sufficienl to state the situation of the
finances for thai year, which is as follows: 0 -. by Iheir

resolution of the 30th October, L781, demanded 8,000,000 of
dollars for the service of the ensuingyear. Without noticing
the Lesser i ta of their requisition, the annexed accounl will

show, that only 420,031.29-90 have have been received.

The precise account of moneys in Europe cannot be ascer-
tained until the final settlement of the accounts there, because
the bills drawn on Spain and Eolland, having been finally paid,
and made payable in France, the sum in livivs of those which
remained due at the close of the year L781, and v. hich had 1 •■

drawn in guilders and dollars, musl depend on the diil'crcnt ex-
changes between Amsterdam, Madrid, and Paris. Bu1 a< rding

to the besl accounts which can be obtained, the anticipations

made in the funds for the year L782, amounted at t1 » of

17-1. : i I. ,000 Of livres. For the service of that war his

most Christian Majesty lent the liiited States 6,000,000 livres.
In addition thereto, Mr. Adams opened a loan in Holland for
10,000,000 of livres; but, by the last accounts from him, he had
obtained only 3,000,000. So that the whole sum borrowed far
the year L782, being 9,000,000, there remained, after deducting

the anticipations, only 5, .' which, according to the course

of exchange which has prevailed, will amount to 833,333.80-90
dollars.

By the :ed account of the receipts and expenditures for

the year L781, it appear-, that there wrc in the treasury, at the
commencement of the year L782, 292,463.66-90 dollars ; BO that

the whole amount of the sums which ( Jongress have had to carry

on the public business for the year 1782, is no more than

1,545,818.30-90 dollars.

From the annexed estimates, it will appear thai the

234 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 26.

the American army, according to the present reduced establish-
ment, amounts to 3,038,795.32-90 dollars— that the clothing
amounts to 1,165,263 — that the rations, besides those issuable
to prisoners, amount to 1,509,352 = 5,713,610.32-90. So that
the three branches of feeding, clothing, and paying the army, on
its present establishment, would amount to 5,713,610.32-90,
without entering into the other branches of service, or consider-
ing the necessity of tents, firing, camp utensils, horses, carriages,
forage, military stores, hospitals, and the like.

The incompetency of the revenue will appear from a com-
parison of it with the sums necessary for feeding and clothing
the army, which services alone amount to above 2,500,000
dollars.

And what must place the matter in a still more striking
point of view, is, that the whole sum which Congress could com-
mand was not sufficient to pay the interest then due on the pub-
lic debts. Every circumstance, therefore, which has hitherto
retarded the measures which Congress have adopted for making
provision for the public debt, has increased the necessity of ma-
king such provision. And, therefore, notwithstanding the dis-
couraging obstacles they have hitherto encountered, they con-
ceive it a duty to themselves and to their constituents to perse-
vere in their intentions, and to renew and extend their endea-
vors to procure the establishment of revenues equal to the pur-
pose of funding all the debts of the United States. And they
think it proper to inform the Assembly of Pennsylvania, that
this subject is now before them under solemn deliberation, and
that the ready and early compliance of the Legislature of Penn-
sylvania with the recommendation of the 3d of February, 1781,
assures Congress of the vigorous support of that State.

Among the steps taken by Congress to secure the debts in-
curred for the common defence, they must not omit to mention
the recommendation of the 6th of September, 1780, for a cession
of part of the Western territory, claimed by particular States. In
consequence thereof, New- York has made a cession, accepted by
Congress, the nature of which will appear by the act herewith
communicated.

^Et. 26.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS. 285

Virginia and Connecticut have also mad rns, the accept-

ance of which has hitherto been delayed by peculiar circum-
stances. Other States, claiming Western territory, have not
complied with the recommendation. Congress cannol help call-
ing the serious attention of the Legislature of Pennsylvania to
thai subject, which they consider as of importance, no1 only as it
may affect the public credit, bu1 as it will contribute to give
aeral satisfaction to the members of the Union. They intend

also to renew their instances with the Other States on the same
occasion.

VALUATION OF LANDS DEFERRED.

February G, 1783.

Whereas, the carrying into execution the eighth article of the
Confederation, relative to a valuation of land for ascertaining the
quotas of each State, towards the general expense, in a manner
consistent with justice to all the members of the Union, and with
such accuracy as the importance of the Bubjecl demands, willne-

-arilv he attended with very considerable expense, to which
tin- present state of the public finances is inadequate : and
whereas, in a matter so fundamental in the Confederation, it is
essential to the harmony and welfare of the United States that
the said article should he carried into effect with greal care, cir-
cumspection, and impartiality, and a short delay will be much
less pernicious than a defective execution ; therefore,

Hisnlr,,!. That Congress are under a necessity of deferring
the attempt to a period when the situation of the finances of the
United States will admit of tin' necessary expense for effecting
the object with as much precision and equity as possible ; and
that they will then proceed to such valuation by Commissioners
appointed by them, and acting under their authority upon prin-
ciples uniform throughout the United States.

// .,/,-,,/_ When the valuation is complete, Congress will
finally adjust the accounts of the United States with the St

236 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 26.

separately, agreeable to that standard, making equitable abate-
ments to such States as have been more immediate sufferers by
the war, and in the mean time will adhere, in the temporary ad-
justment of those accounts, to the proportions established from
time to time by the several requisitions of Congress.

Resolved, For the information of Congress, in forming an
eventual plan, that those States which have already made valua-
tions of their lands respectively, be requested to transmit to Con-
gress the amount of such valuations, with an explanation of the
principles on which they have been made.

PERMANENT AND ADEQUATE FUNDS TO BE COLLECTED BY CON-
GRESS.

February 12, 1783.
Besolved, That it is the opinion of Congress that complete
justice cannot be done to the creditors of the United States, nor
the restoration of Public Credit be effected, nor the future ex-
igencies of the War provided for, but by the establishment of
permanent and adequate funds to operate generally throughout
the United States, to be collected by Congress.

Feb. 20, 1783.

Resolved, That the Commander-in-Chief be informed that Con-
gress, always happy to receive his sentiments on the political and
military affairs of these States, the utility of which they have
upon so many occasions experienced, have paid all the attention
to his letter of the thirtieth of January which the importance of
it demands. That should the war continue another campaign,
every motive of policy and economy would operate in favor of
the enterprise suggested, but that, on the present situation and
prospects of these States, it would be inexpedient at this time to

JEt. 26.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGEE 88. •-'•"> 7

determine upon the plans, or to enter upon the extensive |
parationa it would require.

Thai the official accounts received by < ' ond-

ing with other intelligence, afford appearances of an approach
peace.

Resolved, That the Secretary of Foreign Affairs be dir<
to make ;i confidential communication to the Commander-in-
Chief of the state of the JNYgotiations for Peace, when the Last
advices were received.

OPEN DEBATE.

17*::.

Whereas it is the desire of Congress that the motives of their
deliberations and measures (as far as they can be disclosed con-
sistently with the public safety) should be fully known to their
constituents, — therefore Resolved, that when the establishment
of funds for paving the principal and interest of the public debt
shall be under the consideration of this House, the doors shall
pened.

1 783.

The Committee to whom were referred certain letters of the
Commander-in-( Ihief, submit the following resolution :

/,' olved, That Congress consider the conduct of the Com-
mander-in-Chief on the occasion of some late attempts to create
disturbances in the army, as a new proof of his prudence ami
zealous attention to the welfare of the community; that he be
informed thai Congress also entertain a high sense ofthe patri-
otic sentiments expressed by the officers in their proce-
which evince their unshaken perseverance in those princi]
which have distinguished them in every period of the war. and
have so justly entitled the troops of the United States to the
3l ''in and gratitude of their country, and to the character "f a
Pateiot Abut.

238 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 26.

1783.
Resolved, That a Committee be appointed to consider of the
best manner of carrying into execution the engagements of the
United States for certain allowances of land to the army at the
conclusion of the war.

1783.
Resolved, That the Commander-in-Chief be informed, it is the
intention of Congress to effect the settlement of the accounts of
the respective lines previous to their reduction, and that Congress
are doing, and will continue to do, every thing in their power
towards procuring satisfactory securities for what shall be found
due on such settlement.

19th March, 1783.
Resolved, That as Congress are desirous of manifesting at all
times the most perfect confidence in their ally, the Secretary of
Foreign Affairs be directed to communicate to the Minister from
the Court of France to these States, the separate article of the
Provisional Treaty between the United States and his Britannic
Majesty, and that he inform the Commissioners from these States
for making peace of the reasons for that communication, repeat-
ing to them the desire of Congress that they will upon all occa-
sions maintain perfect harmony and confidence with an ally to
whose generous assistance the United States are so signallv
indebted.

Resolved, That Congress entertain a high sense of the services
of their Commissioners for their steady attention to the dignity
and essential interests of the United States, and in obtaining
from the Court of Great Britain articles so favorable and so im-
portant to those interests.

^t. 26.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS. 239

N ATIONAL FUNDS.

Maivh 20th 17-

Whereas Congress did, on the twelfth day of February hist,
resolve, that it is the opinion of Congress, that the establishment
of adequate and permanent funds, in taxes or duties, which shall
operate, generally and on the whole, in just proportions through-
out the United State.-, are indispensably necessary towards do-
ing complete justice to the public creditors for restoring public
credit, and for providing for future exigencies of the war;, and
whereas, it is the duty of Congress, on whose faith the public
debts have been contracted lor the common safety, to make every
effort in their power for the effectual attainment of objects so
essential to the honor and welfare of the United States, relying
on the wisdom and justice of their constituents for a compliance
with this recommendation ; Therefore,

Resolved, That it be earnestly recommended to the several
States, without delay, to pass laws for the establishment of the
following funds, to be vested in the United States, and to be
collected and appropriated by their authority. Provided, that
the officers for the collection of the said funds shall be inhabit-
ants of each State respectively in which they reside, and being
nominated by Congress, shall be approved and appointed by
such State, accountable to, and removable by. Congress; and
provided that, if alter any nomination being reported to the
State, the same is not approved or rejected at the next meeting
of the legislature, the person or persons so nominated shall be
deemed to be duly appointed, viz. :

A duty of five per cent, ad valorem, at the time and place of
importation, upon all goods, wares, and merchandises of foreign
growth and manufacture, which may be imported into ;my of
said States, from any foreign part, island, or plantation, except

240 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 26.

arms, ammunition, clothing, and other articles imported on ac-
count of the United States, or any of them, and except wool-
cards, cotton-cards, and wire for making them, and also except
the articles hereinafter enumerated, the duty on which shall be
regulated according to the specified rates thereunto annexed.
(Here the duties inserted in the report, to which it was a substi-
tute, were enumerated.)

Also, a duty of five per cent, ad valorem on all prizes and
prize goods condemned in the Court of Admiralty of any of
these States as lawful prize.

A land tax, at the rate of a nineteenth of a dollar for every
hundred acres of located and surveyed land ; a house tax at the
general rate of half a dollar for each dwelling-house (cottages
excepted), and at the additional rate of two and a half per cent,
on whatever sum the rent of the said house may exceed twenty
dollars, to be calculated on the actual rent when the house is
rented, and when in the occupancy of the owner, on an ap-
praised rent by commisioners, under oath, appointed by the

State once in ■ years. The lot and its appurtenances in towns

and in the county, the out-houses, and garden and orchard, to be
comprehended with the dwelling-house.

The duties on imports to pass to the general benefit of the
United States, without credit for the proceeds to any particular
State ; but the product of the land and house taxes to be credit-
ed to each State in which it shall arise. The said funds to con-
tinue till the principal of the debt due by the United States, at
the termination of the present war, shall be finally discharged.

Resolved, That an estimate be transmitted to each State of the
amount of the public debt, as far as the same can be now ascer-
tained, and that Congress will inviolably adhere to their resolu-
tions of the sixteenth day of December last respecting the appro-
priation of any funds which might be granted, and the annual
transmission of the state of the public debt, and the proceeds and
disposition of the said funds, by which all doubts and appre-
hensions respecting the perpetuity of the public debt, may be
effectually removed.

JEt. 26.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS. 241

NUMBEBS— BASIS OF TAXATION.
Passed April 1. 1788.

/,' olved) That as a more convenient and certain rule of ascer-
taining the proportions to be supplied by tin- States respectively
to the common treasury, the following alteration in the articles
of confederation and perpetual union between these States be,
and the same is hereby agreed to in Congress; and the several
States are advised to authorize their respective delegates to
subscribe and ratify the same, as part of the said instrument of
union, in the words following, to wit:

So much of the 8th of the articles of confederation and perpe-
tual union between the thirteen States of America, as is con-
tained in the words following, to wit, "All charges of war, and
all other expenses that shall be incurred for the common defence
or general welfare, and allowed by the United States in Congress
assembled, shall be defrayed out of a common treasury, which
shall be supplied by the several States in proportion to the value
of all land within each State, granted to or surveyed by any
person, as such land, and the buildings and improvements thereon,
shall be estimated, according to such mode as the United States
in Congress assembled shall, from time to time, direct and ap-
point," is hereby revoked, and made void ; and in place thereof

it is declared and concluded, the same having 1 □ agreed to in

a Congress of the United States, that all charges of war, and all
other expenses that have been, or shall be incurred for the com-
mon defence or general welfare, and allowed by the United States
in Congress assembled, except so far as shall be otherwise provi-
ded for, shall be defrayed out of a common treasury, which shall
be supplied by the several States in proportion to the whole
number of white and other free citizens and inhabitants of every
age, sex, and condition, including those bound to servitude for a
term of years, and three-fifths of all other persons not compre-
hended in the foregoing description, except Indians not paying
taxes, in each State; which Dumber shall be triennially taken
and transmitted to the United States in Congress assembled
in such mode as they shall direct and appoint.

B 16

242 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 26.

DEPAKTMENT OF FOKEIGN" AFFAIES.

April 2, 1783.

The Committee appointed to consider what arrangements it
will be proper to make relatively to peace, submit the following
Eeport on the Department of Foreign Affairs.

Resolved, That the Ordinances and Resolutions heretofore
passed relatively to the Department of Foreign Affairs shall
continue in force, subject to the alterations and additions fol-
lowing :

That the Secretary for that department shall be considered
as the Head of the Diplomatic Corps of the United States ; and
to remove any doubts which may have existed respecting the
nature of the office, it is hereby declared to be his duty from
time to time to lay before Congress such plans for conducting the
political and commercial intercourse of the United States with
foreign nations, as may appear to him conducive to the interests
of the said States.

That the said Secretary be entitled to the same allowance for
salary and expenses as is hereinafter specified for a minister at a
foreign court, and that instead of two Under Secretaries, as by
the Resolve of the first of March, 1782, there be appointed un-
der him an Official Secretary, with the same allowance as to a
Secretary of Embassy — the said Secretary to be nominated
by him.

That each minister shall be allowed eight thousand dollars in
lieu of all salary and expenses, except for the postage of letters
and the purchase of public prints and papers, which shall be a
charge upon the United States.

That the said minister shall be invested with consular powers,
and shall accordingly be at the same time Consul General in the
country where he resides, having the control and superintend-
ence of all Vice-Consuls, or inferior commercial agents, but shall
not be at liberty to engage directly or indirectly in any kind of
trade or traffic whatsoever.

That for the more convenient management of the commercial
interests of the United States, there be so many Vice-Consuls

jEt. 26.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS. 243

appointed to reside in foreign porta with which the trade of the
said States may be carried on, as shall from time to time be found
necessary, and that 1 1 1> • said Yi(v-(\>nsuls shail have free liberty
to trade, but no salary or other emolument, excepl the usual com-
missions on such matters as thej may be authorized to trail
on account oi the United States, and reimbursemenl for contin-

: ami reasonable expenses incurred in their behalf.

That the Secretary for Foreign Affairs prepare and lay before
Congress an ordinance conformable to the foregoing principles
for regulating the consular powers ami privileges, and the plan
of a convention be entered into with foreign nations for that
purpose.

That whenever Congress shall judge expedient to appoint an
Official Secretary to anj Embassy, In- shall be entitled to a salary
of one thousand dollars, and to a place in the house and at the
table of the minister with whom he shall reside.

The Committee consider it unnecessary to report concerning
the rank of the Secretary for Foreign Affairs relatively to the
Other heads of the executive department.-, as this is an object in
another report depending before Congress.

April 7, 1783.

Resolved, That the Secretary at War, in concert with the Com-
mander-in-Chief be and he is hereby directed to consider and re-
port to Congress as speedily as may be such measures as it will
be proper to take in the present juncture, for reducing the expenses
of the United States in the War Department.

RATIFICATION OF TREATY Willi GREAT BRITAIN.

April L6 17- '

Resolve!, That a Committee be appointed to prepare ami lay
before Congress a draft of a Ratification of the articles entered

244 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.26.

into between the Commissioners of the United States, and the
Commissioners of his Britannic Majesty, at Paris, on the 30th day
of November last.

Resolved, That the Commander-in-Chief be directed to enter
into preparatory arrangements relative to the seventh article of
the said Treaty, with the Commander-in-Chief of the British
Land and Naval forces in America ; and that a committee be
appointed to prepare a letter to him on this subject.*

INDIAN AFFAIRS.

April 21, 1783.

Eeport of a Committee, to whom was committed the letter
from his Excellency, the President of the State of Pennsylvania,
respecting a peace with the Indians.

Whereas, by the ninth article of the Confederation, the
United States in Congress assembled, are vested with the sole
and exclusive right and power, among other things, of regulat-
ing the trade, and managing all affairs with the Indians, not
members of any of the States,

Besolved, That the general superintendence of Indian affairs
under Congress, be annexed to the Department of War.

That there be a suspension of offensive hostilities against the
Indian nations, and that immediate measures be taken to com-
municate the same to the several tribes, preparatory to a final
pacification.

That there be four agents appointed for the transaction of
affairs with the Indians, in the different districts— one for the
Eastern district, comprehending all the tribes under the general
denomination of the Penobscot Indians ; one for the Northern
district, comprehending the Six Nations, and the nations depend-
ing on them ; one for the Western district, comprehending all

* The draft of the Ratification is by Hugh Williamson ; corrected in some
particulars by Hamilton.

JEt. 26.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS. 245

tli.' tribes under the general denomination of the WeBtern En-
dians; one for the Southern district, comprehending all the
Southern Indians ; with an allowance, not exceeding

lars per annum, to each agent.

That measures be taken to procure articles proper for pre-
sents i" tlic Indians, to the amount of , to be dis-
tributed when their deputies shall assemble for the purpose of a
treat} ofpeace. Thai in order to a speedy pacification till the
commissioners aforesaid can be appointed, a special Committee
be appointed, instructed to endeavor to engage one or more re-
spectable inhabitants for each district, acquainted with [ndian
affairs, to undertake the negotiation of an immediate peace ; and
that tin' said Committee digest such further measures as it will
be proper for Congress to take in reference thereto.

Provided, That the preceding measures of Congress respect-
ing Indian affairs, shall not be construed to affect the territorial
claim of any of the States, or their legislative rights within their
respective limits.

April 22, 1783.

Ordered, That the Secretary lay before Congress on every
Monday, a list of all the Committees which have been appointed
at any time before the preceding week, and have not reported;
and thai such Committees be then called on to state the reasons
why they have not reported.

COMMERCIAL TREATY WITH <;i;i:\T BRITAIN".

May 1, 1783.

Resolved, Thai a Commission be prepared to Messrs. Benja-
min Franklin, John Adams, and John Jay, authorizing them, or
cither of them, in the absence of the others, to enter into a Treaty
of Commerce between the United States and Great Britain, sub-
ject to the revisal of the contracting parties previous to its final

246 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt.26.

conclusion ; and in the mean time, to enter into a Commercial
Convention, to continue in force one year.

That the Secretary for Foreign Affairs lay before Congress,
without delay, a plan of a Treaty of Commerce, and instructions
relative to the same, to be transmitted to the said Commission-
ers.

CORPS OF INVALIDS.

May 1, 1783.

Resolved, That the Corps of Invalids be reduced. Such offi-
cers as have lost a limb, or been equally disabled in service, to
retire on full pay for life. Such officers as may not be included
in this description, to retire on the same principles, with other
officers of the army.

Such non-commissioned officers and soldiers, as being stran-
gers in the country, and, having been disabled in service, are in-
capable of providing for their own subsistence, and are proper
objects for a hospital, to be received into some fixed hospital,
to be appropriated for the purpose, and then supplied during life
on such provision as may be hereafter determined ; to be enti-
tled, in the mean time, to their usual rations, and clothing. And
such non-commissioned officers and soldiers, disabled in service,
as may have homes to which they can retire, to be discharged
on the principles of the Eesolutions of the third of April last.

That the Secretary at War be directed to take proper mea-
sures, previous to the reduction, to ascertain the different classes
above described.

That the officers who shall retire on full pay may, at their
option, collectively accept, in lieu of such full pay for life, the
amount of years full pay, in the terms of the Eesolution of

the last.

That at the reduction of this corps, all the officers and men
shall receive one month's pay, and shall share in any further pay-

jEt.in;.] RESOLUTIONS l\ CONGRESS. 247

ments which may be made to the other parts of the army, when
reduced.

OOLLEI i i"N OF VAXES DBGBD.

Mr. 2 1788.

Whereas it is the desire <>f (\>i when the reduction

of the army shall take place, to enable the "Hirers and soldiers
to return to their respective homes with convenience and satia-
tion; for which purpose it will be indispensable to advance
them a pari of their pay, before they leave the field; and where-
■ the ] resent juncture, there are many otheT engagements
for which the public faith is pledged, and the punctual perform-
ance ofwhich, is essential t<> the credit of the United Sta1
neither of which important objects can be effected without the

sertions of the seVeral States in the collection of tas
therefore,

Resolved, That the respective States be called upon in the
mosl earnest manner, to make every efforl in their power to for-
d the collection of taxes, that such a sum may. without delay,
be paid into the common treasury, as will be adequate to the
public exigencies ; and thai Congress confidently rely upon the
disposition of their constituents, do1 only to do justice to tl
brave men, who have suffered and sacrificed so much in tin-
cause of their country, and whose distresses must be extreme,
should they be sent from the field without the payment of a part
of their well-earned dues, hut also to ma Me Congress to main-
tain the faith and reputation of the United State-, both which
are seriously concerned, in relieving the necessities of a merito-
rious army, and fulfilling the public stipulations.

Resolved, 'That the Superintendent of Finance he dire
take the necessary arrangements for carrying the views ol Con-
3s into execution; and that he be assured of their firm sup-
port towards fulfilling the engagements he has already take;.,
may take, on the public account, during his continuance in
office.

248 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 26.

FKONTIER POSTS.

May 12, 1783.

Resolved, That the Commander-in-Chief be directed, when-
ever the frontier posts of these United States shall be evacuated
pursuant to the articles of peace, to place therein of the troops
under his command, who have enlisted for three years, and
whose term of service may not then have expired, such force as
he may judge necessary to secure and hold the same, until fur-
ther measures can be taken for the security of them, or such of
them as it may be necessary to support, provided it does not ex-
ceed the term of nine months ; and that he take measures for
exchanging with the British, or transporting artillery, stores, and
provisions, that he may judge necessary for that purpose ; and
the Superintendent of Finance is directed to afford all the assist-
ance in his department which circumstances will permit.

TREATY WITH RUSSIA.

May 21, 1783.

Resolved, That Mr. Dana be informed that the treaties lately
entered into for restoring peace, have caused such an alteration
in the affairs of these States, as to have removed the primary ob-
ject of his mission to Eussia — the acquisition of new supports to
their independence — that though Congress approve the princi-
ples of the armed neutrality founded on the liberal basis of a
maintenance of the rights of neutral nations, and of the privi-
leges of commerce ; yet they are unwilling at this juncture to
become a party to a confederacy which may hereafter too far
complicate the interests of the United States, with the politics of
Europe ; and therefore, if such a progress is not yet made in the
business as may make it dishonorable to recede, it is their desire
that no further measures may be taken at present, towards the
admission of the United States into that confederacy.

JEt. 26.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRK 88. 249

That with respect to a commercial treaty with Russia, they
consider the benefits of i1 to this country, in any extensive de-
a rather remote, and have therefore, little present induce-
ment to enter into it, besides the desire of cultivating the friend-
ship of that Court and presert ing a consistency with the dis]
sition already manifested towards forming a connection there-
with, and also of laying the foundation of a future intercourse
between the same, when the circumstances of the two count]
may be more favorable to the same.

[That as experience will enable both nations to form abetter
judgment hereafter, of the principles upon which that inter-
course may be most advantageously conducted, Congress would
wish any treaty now formed to be of temporary duration, and
limited to a fixed period. That in this view, unless Mr. Dana
shall have already formed engagements, or made proposals from
which he cannot easily recede, of a more indefinite or extensive
nature, before this reaches him, he be instructed to confine the du-
ration of the proposed treaty of commerce to fifteen years, agree-
ably to the term limited for a similar treaty, with the Court of
Sweden; stipulate expressly that the same shall be subject to
the revisal of Congress, previous to its final conclusion, and that
in all matters, he insist upon exact reciprocity. That so soon as
this object be accomplished, or if he discovers any repugnancy
on the part of the Court of Russia, to entering into a treaty
with these States on liberal principles, he be permitted to re-
turn: That with respect to the money mentioned in hi.- letter of
the to be employed in presents to the ministers of that

Court, he be informed, that as by tin; Con federation no persons
holding offices under the United States are permitted to receive
presents from foreign p not consistent with the sit-

uation or policy of these States, in their transactions with other
nation-;, and that he be instructed to decline paying the same,
unless the steps already taken by him towards forming a treaty,
or treaties, shall, in his judgment, imply an < ment to make

such payment.

250 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 26.

DISCHARGE OF ARMY.

May 23, 1783.

The Committee, consisting of Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Peters, and
Mr. Gorham, to whom was referred a letter of the 9th from the
Superintendent of Finance and Secretary at War, in order to
confer with them on the resolutions of the 7th and 28th of April,
and 2d inst., report, " That all the non-commissioned officers and
soldiers in the service of the United States, enlisted to serve
during the war, be discharged ; and that the Secretary at War
and Commander-in-Chief take the proper measures for doing this,
in a manner most convenient to the soldiery and to the inhab-
itants, having the men previously conducted, under proper offi-
cers, to their respective States, and that they be at the same time
authorized to retain as many officers as they may judge neces-
sary to command the men who still continue in service, permit-
ting the others to retire.

May 26, 1783.

Resolved, That the Commander-in-Chief be instructed to grant
furloughs to the non-commissioned officers and soldiers in the
service of the United States, enlisted to serve during the war,
who shall be discharged as soon as the definitive treaty of peace
is concluded, together with a proportionable number of commis-
sioned officers of the different grades ; and that the Secretary at
War and Commander-in-Chief take the proper measures for con-
ducting those troops to their respective homes, in such manner
as may be most convenient to themselves and to the States
through which they may pass ; and that the men thus furloughed
be allowed to take their arms with them.

J5T.26.] RESOLUTIONS l\ CONGRESS.
DKI'OKTATION OF NUGBOES.

Whereas by the articles agreed upon on the 80th of Novem-
ber last, by and between the Commissioners of the United States
of America for making peace, and the Commissioner on the |
of his Britannic Majesty, it is stipulated thai bis Britannic Ma-
jesty shall, with nil convenienl speed, and without causing any
destruction, or carrying away any negroes or other property of
tli,. American inhabitants, withdraw all his armies, garrisons,
and fleets, from the said United States, and from everypart,
place, and harbor within the same: and whereas a consider)
number of negroes belonging to the citizens of these States bave
been carried off therefrom, contrary to the true intent and mean-
ing of said articles, — Besolved, that copies of the letters between
the Commander-in-Chief and Sir Guy Carleton, and other pipers
on tins subject, Ik- transmitted to the Minister Plenipotentiary of
these States for negotiating a peace in Europe : and thai they be
directed to remonstrate thereon to the Court of Greal Britain,

I take proper measures for obtaining such reparation as the na-
ture of the case will admit Ordered, thai a copy of 'lie fori
ing resolve be transmitted to tli,' Commander-in-Chief; and that
he be directed to continue his remonstrances to Sir Guy Carle-
ton, respecting the permitting negroes belonging to the citizens of
these States to Leave New-York, and to insist on the discontinu-
ance of that measure.

ALLOWANCES OF LAND T< > ARMY.

Maj 80 178

The Committee appointed to consider of the besl manner of
carrying into execution the engagements of the United States

for certain allowances of land to the army at the COncll
the war, submit the following resolution.

252 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 26.

Congress having by their Resolution of the
promised certain allowances of land 'to all officers and to such
soldiers of the United States engaged to serve during the war,
who should continue in service to the end thereof —

Resolved, That till provision can be made by the United
States for locating and surveying to the officers and soldiers
aforesaid the portions of land to which they are respectfully en-
titled, certificates be given to them when furloughed or discharged,
as evidences of their claim upon the United States, specifying
the name of each person, the regiment or corps to which he be-
longs, his rank therein, and the quantity of land to which he is
entitled, the certificates to be signed by the Paymaster General,
and to be in the form following. — [Certificate.']

FULFILMENT OF TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN.

May 30, 1783.

The Committee, consisting of Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Elsworth,
Mr. Izard, Mr. Madison, and Mr. Hawkins, appointed to take
into consideration and report to Congress what further steps are
proper to be taken by them for carrying into effect the stipula-
tions contained in the articles between the United States and
Great Britain, dated the 30th day of November last, having re-
ported as follows : Whereas, by the treaty entered into at Paris,
on the 30th day of November last, between the Commissioners
for making peace on the part of the United States, and the Com-
missioners for making peace on the part of his Britannic Majesty,
it is stipulated among other things in the 4th, 5th, and 6th arti-
cles (here recited)— (the first precluding any " lawful impediment
to the recovery of the full value in sterling money of all bona fide
debts heretofore contracted," the 5th "recommending the res-
titution of all confiscated estates belonging to real British sub-
jects," and the 6th stipulating that there be " no future confisca-
tions made" of such estates nor " any prosecutions" commenced

JEt. 26.] PEACE ESTABLISHMENT. 253

or "any damage be suffered by reason of the pari taken in the
war;")"

And whereas Congress arc desirous of giving B] <lv and full

effect to all the stipulations in the said treaty on the pari of the
United States, and of accelerating thereby the bL of

peace, in confidence, that the conduct of his Britannie Majesty
will be governed by a like disposition — Therefore, Resolved,
That the several states be required, and they are hereby requir-
ed, to remove all obstructions which may interpose in the way of
the entire and faithful execution of the 4th and 6th articles
above recited. And that it be at the same time earnestly recom-
mended to them, to take into serious consideration the 5th arti-

also above recited, and to conform to the several matters
therein contained, with that spirit of moderation and liberality,
which ought ever to characterize the deliberations and measures
of a free and enlightened nation.

June 4, 1783.

Mr. Livingston having signified to Congress his desire of re-
linquishing the exercise of the office of Foreign Affairs, and his
intention of returning to the State of New York,

Resolved unanimously, That the thanks of Congress be pre-
sented to Mr. Livingston for his services during his continuance
in office, and that he be assured Congress entertain a high sense
of the ability, zeal, and fidelity with which he has discharged
the important trust reposed in him.

MILITARY PEACE ESTABLISHMENT.

1783.

Before any plan can, with propriety, be determined for a mil-
itary peace establishment, it is necessary to ascertain what [tow-
ers exist, for that purpose, in the Confederation.

254 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 26.

In the fifth clause of the ninth article, the United States, in
Congress assembled, are empowered (without any mention of
peace or war) " to build and equip a navy, to agree upon the
number of land forces, and to make requisitions from each State
for its quota, in proportion to the number of white inhabitants
in each State ; which requisition shall be binding ; and there-
upon, the Legislature of each State shall appoint the regimental
officers, raise the men, and clothe, arm, and equip them, in a
soldier-like manner, at the expense of the United States ; and
the officers and men, so clothed, armed, and equipped, shall
march to the place appointed, and within the time agreed on by
the United States in Congress assembled."

By the fourth clause in the same article, the United States
are empowered " to appoint all officers of the land forces in the
service of the United States, excepting regimental officers; to
appoint all officers of the naval forces ; and to commission all
officers whatever, in the service of the United States, making
rules for the government and regulation of the said land and na-
val forces, and directing their operations.

By the fourth clause of the sixth article, it is declared, that
" no vessels of war shall be kept up by any State, in time of
peace, except such number only, as shall be deemed necessary
by the United States, in Congress assembled, for the defence of
such State or its trade ; nor shall any body of forces be kept up
by any State, in time of peace, except such number only, as, in
the judgment of the United States, in Congress assembled, shall
be deemed requisite to garrison the forts necessary for the de-
fence of such State."

The Committee apprehend, that the terms of the last clause,
being rather permissive than directory, do not interfere with the
positive power vested in the United States by the preceding
clauses ; and that they have a discretion in the choice of the
mode of providing for the general safety in time of peace as well
as in time of war.

If this interpretation is just, the Committee are of opinion,
there are conclusive reasons in favor of a Continental, in prefer-

JEt. 26.] P E ACE K s T A B LI SB M E N T , 2.')-".

ence to separate State establishments; and that, a1 all events,
there must be Borne Continental establishment

/ </7. There are objects which cannot fall within the pur-
view of separate Stair establishments; posta within districts, the
jurisdiction and property of which, are covered by opposite and
mterfering claims, the possession of which, for the security of
the western country, is of great importance, and for which, pro-
vision cannot, with proprii ty, be made by any particular State:
u tract of territory ceded to the United States by the late treaty
with Greal Britain, which is no1 within the original claims
any of the States, the safety of which must depend on Conti-
nental provisions; the navigation of the blississippi, in which
all the States arc more or less interested, and the security of
which ought to be provided for by their joinl forces, as well
naval as land; the fisheries, the rights respecting which, are in
no particular Stairs, but in the Union at large, and therefore
call for tin ■ protection of the Union ; the general commerce of
the United States, the rights of which, founded npon the laws of
nations, and the treaties of the United States with foreign coun-
tries claim the joinl protection of the Confederacy, and

not, with propriety, be Left to the care of State establishments.
A distinction, that, in time of war it is to be protected by the
I ion, in time of peace by each State, would involve, besides
other inconveniences, this capital one: Thai the United States,
when a Federal navy should become necessary to assert the
Federal rights, would be obliged to begin to i , i1 the moment
they would have occasion to employ, a fleet

Secondly. The fortifications to be established for the security
of the States, ought to be constructed with relation to each other,
on some general and well digested plan; and the provisions for
their di , should be made on the same principles. This is

equally important in the double view of safety andeconomy. If
this is not done under the direction of the United States, each
State following a disjointed and partial plan, it will be found,
that the posts will have no mutual dependence or support ; that
they will be improperly distributed, and more aumerous than is

necessary, us well as less efficacious. Eence they will be D

256 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 26.

easily reduced ; and there will be a greater expense, both in the
construction and defence.

Thirdly. It happens that, from local circumstances, particular
States, if left to take care of their own defence, would be in pos-
session of the chief part of the standing forces, and of the princi-
pal fortified places of the Union ; a circumstance inconvenient on
various accounts. It tends to impose a heavy exclusive burthen
on them, in a matter, the benefit of which, will be immediately
shared by their neighbors, and, ultimately, by the Union in
general. It trusts the care of the safety of the whole to a part,
which will naturally be unwilling, as well as unable, to make
such effectual provisions, at its j)articular expense, as the com-
mon welfare requires. A single State, from its local situation,
will, in a great degree, keep the keys of the United States. A
considerable force, in the hands of a few States, may have an un-
friendly aspect on the mutual confidence and harmony which
ought carefully to be maintained between the whole.

Fourthly. It is probable, that a Continental provision of the
forces which will be necessary to be kept up, will be made upon
a more systematic and economical plan, than a provision by the
States separately ; especially, as it will be of great importance
that, as soon as the situation of affairs will permit, public manu-
factories of arms, powder, etc., should be established ; and a part
of the troops, employed in this way, will furnish those necessary
articles to the United States, and defray a considerable part of
the expense of supporting themselves.

Fifthly. There must be a corps of Artillery and Engineers,
which being a scientific corps, and requiring institutions for the
instruction and formation of the officers, cannot exist upon sepa-
rate establishments without enormous expense.

The Committee, upon these principles, submit the following

PLAN.

The Military Peace Establishment of the United States to consist
ot tour regiments of Infantry, one regiment of Dragoons, one regiment
ot Artillery incorporated in a corps of Engineers, with the denomina-
tion oi the Corps of Engineers.

Mt. 26.] P E A ( ! E E s t A HI . I s 1 1 \i i ; \ T . 2 5 7

Eaoh regiment of Infantry to consist, when oomplete, of two bat-
taliinis; each battalion of four companies; and each company of one
hundred and twenty-eight rank and file; with the following commis-
sioned ami Don-oommissiooed officers:

< in.' I lolonel : two Majors, one to each battalion : eight Captains, one
to each oompany ; nineteen Lieutenants, two to each company <t
twenty Dm' Lieutenants, eleven first, and ten second. Lieutenants, in-
cluding one Paymaster, one Quarter-Master, one Adjutant, and two

Ensigns, one Ensign to eaoh battalion : Chaplain : Surg and Mate :

two Sergeant-Majors, one to eaoh battalion ; two Quarter-Master-Ser-
geants, one tci each battalion ; two Drum -and-Fife-Majors, one to eaoh
battalion; sixteen drums and fifes, two to each company; thirty-two
Sergeants, four to each company; one hundred and twenty-eighl Corpo-
rals, included in the rank and file : that is. sixteen Corporals, and one
hundred and twelve private men to a company.

The regiment of Dragoons to consist, when complete, of two cohorts ;
each cohort of two squadrons, each squadron of two troops, and each
troop of thirty-two dragoons, rank and file, with the following commis-
sioned and non-commissioned officers :

One Colonel: two. Majors; eight Captains ; nineteen Lieutenants ;
including Paymaster. Quarter-Master, and Adjutant; Chaplain; one
Surgeon and one Mate ; two Sergeant-Majors ; two Quarter Master-
Sergeants ; two Trumpet-Majors ; eight Trumpeters ; eight Farriers ;
sixteen Saddlers; two Kiding-Masters j thirty-two Sergeants; sixty-
four Corporals, included in the rank and file ; that is, to each troop,
eight Corporals and twenty-four private dragoons.

The corps of Engineers to be composed as follows:
One Major or Brigadier General commandant; one Colonel; two
Lieutenant- Col mi els two Majors: twenty Captains; forty-five Lieu-
tenants (including Paymaster, Quarter Master, and Adjutant), twenty
first, and twenty-three second, Lieutenants; Chaplain, Surgeon, and
two Mates: one Professor of Mathematics : one Professor of Chemis-
try: Professor of Natural Philosophy; Professor of Civil Architecture;
two Sergeant-Majors ; two Quarter-Master-Sergeants ; two Drum-and-
Fife-Majors; twenty drums and fifes; forty Sergeants : thirty-two Bom-
bardiers; eight Corporals of Sappers and Miners; three hundred and
eighty-four matrosses: ninety-six Sappers and Miners; one hundred
and eighty-eight artificers of different kinds, to be distributed in the
following manner :

Two battalions of Artillery, each consisting of four companies, com-
manded by a field officer ; each company consisting of one Captain, font
Lieutenants, four Sergeants, four Bombardiers, and forty-eight ma-
tros-

Two companies of sappers and miners ''ich company consisting
of one Captain, four Lieutenants, four Sergeants, and forty-eight sap-
pers and miners.

B 17
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 26.

A corps of Artificers, commanded by one Captain of the corps, and
consisting of,

Artificers of the First Class.

One Master-Founder in Brass,

One Master-Founder in Iron,

One Master Armorer,

One Master-Cutler,

One Master-Blacksmith,

One Master-Carpenter,

One Master-Wheelwright,

One Master-Mason,

One Master-Saddler,

One Master-Manufacturer of Cartridge-boxes

One Master-Engraver,

Pay per month.
$60
50
50
50
50

, Scabbards, &c. 50
Of the Second Class.

Four Founders in Brass and Iron ; four Armorers ; two Cutlers ;
two Blacksmiths ; two Carpenters ; two Wheelwrights ; two Masons ;
two Saddlers ; two Manufacturers of Cartridge-boxes, &c.

Of tlie Third Class.

Four Founders in Brass and Iron ; twenty Armorers : twelve Cut-
lets ; [Powder-makers?] thirty Blacksmiths ; thirty Carpenters ; twen-
ty Wheelwrights ; twelve Masons ; six Saddlers ; six Manufacturers of
Cartridge-boxes, &c. ; two Turners; two Tinmen; two Brickmakers;
two Potters ; one Glazier ; two Cabinet-makers ; one Locksmith ; one
Spur-niaker ; one Tanner ; one Currier.

That the pay of a regiment of Infantry shall be as follows :

Per month.

To a Colonel, ..... $100

Major, ...... 65

Captain,. ...... 50

Lieutenant, ..... 25

Ensign, ...... 20

Paymaster, besides his pay as Lieutenant, . 15

Quartermaster, do. do. . . 15

Adjutant, do. do. . . 15

Chaplain, ...... 50

Surgeon, ..... 50

Mate, ...... 25

Sergeant-Major and Quartermaster-Sergeant, each, 8

Drum-and-fife-Major, ... 8

Drum and fife, .... 2

Sergeant, ...... 5

Corporal, ..... 3

Private, ...... 2

jEt. 26.] PEACE ESTABLISHMENT. 269

The pay of a regiment of Dragoons, as follows :

Per month.

Field officers as Infantry.

Captain, ) being obliged to find their own j>

Lieutenant, ) horses, $ 35

Quartermaster, Paymaster, Adjutant, as Infantry, in

Second Lieutenants, 30

Chaplain. Surgeon, and Mates, OS in the Infantry.
Sergeant-Majors, Quarteruia>trr S its, do.

Trumpet Major, . . . . .8

Trumpeter, ..... 2

Farrier, ....... 8

Saddler. ...... 8

Riding Master, • • . .10

Sergeants, Corporals, and private Dragoons,
as in the Infantry.

The pay of the corps of Artillery and Engineers, to be as follows :

Per month.

Commandant according to his rank.

To a Colonel, . . . . *H0

Lieutenant-Colonel, . . . . .80

.Major. ...... 70

Captain. . . . . . .60

Lieutenant, . . . . . 30

Paymaster, C including paj a- Lieutenants:!
Quartermaster, < first Lieutenants, $30, second > each, 45
Adjutant, ( Lieutenants, $25. )

Chaplain. Surgeon, and Mates, as in Infantry.

Profi rs, each, . ... 80

Sergeant-Major, Quartermaster-Sergeant, each, . 8

Drum ami fit. Majors, ..... 8

Drums and fifes, ..... 3

Sergeant. ...... 6

Bombardier, ..... 4

Corporal, ......

Matross, or Private of sappers or miners. . 3

Artificers as annexed to them.

That a ration of provisions -hall consist of one pound of bread, or
flour: half a pound of salt, or three-fourths of a pound of fresh, beef or
pork: a pint of peas, or other vegetables equivalent; one gill of vinegar,
and half a c;ill of salt.

Each officer and soldier to be entitled to draw one ration per day j
the officer at his option to receive tin' estimated value in money j and
the soldier to be paid at the rate- annexed to each article, for whatever
it may not be possible to furnish him.

260 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt.26.

That there be an allowance of soap per to eaeh com-

missioned officer ; and to every non-commissioned officer and

soldier. m

The allowance of forage to officers whose duty is to be performed on
horseback, shall be as follows:

To a Major-General, four rations ; Brigadier, three ; Field officers
of every corps, each, two ; Chaplain, Surgeon, Quartermaster, Paymas-
ter, Adjutant, of every corps, each, one ; Captains, and other officers of
Dragoons, each, one ; Captains of Engineers, each. one.

A ration of forage to consist of the following articles :

When officers are absent from their corps on duty, and cannot draw
forage, they shall be paid for it at the rate of for each

ration.

That the allowance of clothing to each non-commissioned officer, and
private soldier, shall be as follows :

One cloth coat, jacket, and overall, every second year ; one hat, one
linen frock, three shirts, three pair overalls, six pair shoes, two leather
stocks, annually ; one blanket every year. And if it shall be

found necessary to supply any non-commissioned officer or soldier, with
any articles beyond the quantity above specified, the value thereof shall
be deducted from his pay, according to the rates annexed to each.

If the idea of tlie Confederation is adhered to, the number of
troops to be raised must be distributed in the best manner the
nature of the case will admit, to the several States, according to
the proportion of their respective populations ; and each must
appoint regimental officers in proportion to the number of men
it furnishes ; but as no State will have to furnish a complete
regiment, this apportionment of the officers, especially, will be-
come extremely difficult, if not impracticable, on any satisfac-
tory plan : and the filling up vacancies as they arise, will pro-
duce endless perplexity. It would be much to be preferred, if
the States could be induced to transfer this right to Congress ;
and indeed, without it, there can never be regularity in the mili-
tary system. It would also be much the best, that the men
should be enlisted under Continental direction ; which will be a
more certain and more economical mode : for as it now stands,
the United States are obliged to pay for all mismanagement or
extravagance which may happen.

The next object to be attended to, is that of fortifications.
These are of two kinds, land and naval : the first for internal

jEt. 26.] I'llACE EST A 151,1 S II M K N T 261

security, the last for the protection of tin- future fleets of the
United States.

A- to the lirst kind, there are many posts "f Importance al-
ready existing, several of which it will be essential to occupy ami
guard, till more permanent measures * - ; 1 1 1 be taken <>n a general
plan. For this. Congress have already made provision by tl
resolution of the

The Committee are of opinion, that the principles laid down
in the memorial from Major-General Du Portail, Chief Engineer,
accompanying this report, so far as they respect the article "t
fortifications, are, in general, sound and jusl ; and that it will in-
expedient for Congress, as soon as they have determined <>w the
establishment of the corps of Engineers, to instruct the head of
that corps to make a general survey of the points necessary
be fortified, and to lay a general plan before Congress lor their
Consideration.

With respect to maritime fortifications, the Committee are of
opinion, that this object, though of the highesl importance, can-
not be immediately undertaken ; bu1 that it will be advisable for

Congress to appoint an Agent of Marine, to make all the impii-

. obtain all the lights, and prepare, in proportion as the public
finances will admit, all the means previously requisite towards
the establishment of posts, and the formation of a navy.

The Committee apprehend, that even if the resources of the
! : itted States were at this time equal to the undertaking of con-
structing and equipping a navy, it would he ineligible to enter
upon it, till a plan, deliberately combined in all its parts, had
1 a digested and approved for that purpose. As the prepara-
tory steps will require a considerable length of time before such
a plan could he matured for execution, it will, therefore, he pro-
per, in the judgment of the Committee, to make the appoint-
ment - -peedily as it can conveniently he done.

The Committee are further of opinion, that it will he pro
for Congress to keep constantly on foot, magazines and arsenals,
in different parts of the [Juited States, equal to the complete
equipment of twenty thousand men, in every thing n© for

the field or for a siege, calculating on a three years' supply ; and

262 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 26.

that, in this view, it will be expedient to establish arsenals and
magazines at the following places :

and to deposit all the artillery and military stores, in possession
of the United States, in those several places, in equal propor-
tions ; and as soon as may be, to make up any deficiencies which
may be found in the quantity proposed ; so that each deposit
may suffice for five thousand men.

With respect to the establishment of military academies, as
proposed in the letter of the

by the Secretary at "War, the Committee are of opin-
ion, that the benefits of such institutions rarely compensate for
the expense ; and that, by having the three professors proposed
to be attached to the corps of Engineers, all the utility to be ex-
pected from academies, may be substantially obtained : that, at
all events, such institutions can only be the object of future con-
sideration.

The Committee are of opinion, that as soon as the situation
of public affairs will permit, it ought to be made a serious object
of policy, to be able to supply ourselves with all the articles of
first necessity in war ; and in this view, to establish foundries,
manufactories of arms, powder, etc.

There are two reasons which appear to them conclusive for
this. The first is, that every country ought to have within it-
self all the essential means of defence ; for, to depend on foreign
supplies, is to render its security precarious : the second, that as
it will be indispensable to keep up a corps of Artillery, and some
other troops, the labor of a part of these, bestowed upon the
manufactories, will enable the public to supply itself on better
terms than by importation. The Committee propose that the
Secretary at War be directed to lay before Congress a plan, in
detail, for this purpose ; designating the places where those
oundries and manufactories can be erected with advantage, the
means to be employed, and the expense to be incurred in the ex-
ecution of the plan.

The Committee are of opinion, that a general staff is unneces-
sary in time of peace, as all the objects of it may be answered
by the War Department, by the regimental officers, and by con-

jEt. 26.] PEACE E 8 T ABLI SH M E \ T . 263

tracts. They would only recommend to have a Major-Genera]
to command all the troops; a General officer to command the
corps of Engineers and Artillery; and as [nspector-General to
preserve uniformity in the regulations and sen ice of the tr<

The pay of these officers may be :
To a Major < leneral, per month, . . . . . |

To a Brigadier-General, ...... |

Inspector-General, including the pay of his rank, . . Q

In time of war. it will be necessary to appoint a Brigadier-General
to each brigade consisting of two regiments of Infantry ; but during
peace, as the service of the regiments will be detached, this may be
dispensed with.

It will be necessary to establish a General Hospital for the reception
of invalids of the army and navy. For the present, only the following
officers will be requisite :

Pay and subsistence per month.

One Physician and Director, who shall also have the ) *.„

superintendence of the regimental hospitals, ^

One Purveyor and Apothecary, . . . . 50

One Surgeon, . 50

One Mate, .

One Steward, ........ 15

One Matron,

Pour Nurses, each . ."»

To be entitled to draw a ration per day each, and no other subsist-
ence or allowance.

The invalids to be allowed no pay; but the clothing and rations
specified for soldiers during life.

The gross expense of this establishment, if complete, as will appear
by the annexed estimate, will be s

From this may be deducted the value of the product of
the manufactories, when established by the estimate also
annexed,

Balance, an annual charge upon the United States, *

If Congress should think it inexpedient immediately to incur
so considerable an expense, the following method may be taken
to diminish it.

The companies of [nfantry may, for the present, be recm
only to sixty-four men each.

Only four troops of the Dragoons may be raised, and only
one troop mounted. It rfbuld be inexpedient to neglect this

264 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [-tor. 26.

arm altogether ; for it will always, in case of war, be of great
importance in the southern States; and the knowledge of its
principles and uses ought to be cultivated.

The companies of Sappers and Miners, and the company of
Artificers, except the Master-Founders and the Armorers, may
be deferred till the means of the United States will admit of
carrying into execution the plan of foundries and manufactories.

Yet it would be proper that these establishments should be
adopted as proposed ; and the execution, in these instances, sus-
pended.

The savings of expense, by these deductions, would amount
to ; which, taken out of the

aggregate expense of the whole establishment, will leave a resi-
due of annual expense, of

The Committee are of opinion, that this expense is unavoid-
able ; and that the only question is, whether it shall be borne by
the United States or by particular States : in which last case,
it is probable it will be greatly increased, for want of being con-
ducted on a systematic plan : and it is to be observed, that the
resources of the States, jointly or severally, are confined within
certain bounds ; and that if any States contribute an extra pro-
portion in one way, they must contribute less than their propor-
tion in another. The superior national considerations already
stated, leave no doubt as to the manner in which the question
ought to be decided.

The Committee are also of opinion, that in considering the
means of national defence, Congress ought not to overlook that
of a well regulated militia ; that as the keeping up of such a
militia, and proper arsenals and magazines, by each State, is
made a part of the Confederation, the attention of Congress to
this object will be a constitutional duty ; that as great advan-
tages would result from uniformity in this article, in every
State, and from the militia establishment being as similar as the
nature of the case will admit, to the Continental military estab-
lishment, it will be proper for Congress to adopt and recommend
a general plan for that purpose.

The Committee submit the following outlines of such a

Mi. 86.] PEACE ESTABLISHMENT. 265

plan; which may, it' thought necessary, 1": digested and im-
proved.

All the free male inhabitants in each Sti >m twenty

years old to fifty, exceptsuch as the laws of each State shall
think it proper to exempt, to 1"' divided into two general el
one class consisting "f married, tin- other class consisting of sin-
. men.

Each 'la.-s t<> be formed into corps of Infantry and Dragoons,

inized in the Bame manner as has been proposed for the Con-
tinental troops.

Those who are willing to be at the expense of eqnipp
tihemselves for the Dragoon service, to be permitted to enter into
that corps. The residue to be formed into Infantry. This will
consult the convenience and inclinations of diil'erent classes of
citizens.

Each officer and private of the Dragoons, to provide himself

with a horse, saddle, etc, pistols and sabre; and each non-com-

jsioned officer and private, with a carbine and cartouch box,

with twelve rounds for his carbine, and six rounds for each

pistol.

Each officer of the Infantry to have a sword and esponi
and each non-commissioned officer and private, a musket, bay-
onet, and cartouch-box containing always twelve rounds of pow-
dei and ball.

That the corps of single men be obliged to assemble in com-
panies once a month ; and once in three months regimentally, to
be inspected and exercised, subject to a penalty to be assigned
for that purpose.

That the corps of married men be obliged to assemble once
in three months by companies : and once in six month.- regimen-
tally, for the same purposes as above-mentioned.

That when the State is invaded, the corps of cither <•'
indifferently, shall be obliged to take the field for its defence, and
to remain in service one year, unless sooner relieved by sp<
order.

That when another State is attacked, and it is m
march to its succor, one-half of the corps of single mi D -hall be

266 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 26.

obliged to take their turn first, and to serve for the same period ;
to be afterwards relieved by one-half of the corps of the married
men ; and so on alternately.

That in addition to these two classes, there shall be a third
class, under a particular denomination, as fencibles, fusiliers,
train-bands, or whatever else may be judged expedient ; with the
same organization as the other classes, but composed in the fol-
lowing manner :

Of all such of either of the two other classes as will volun-
tarily engage to serve for the term of eight years, provided they
shall not exceed the proportion of one to fifty of all the enrolled
militia of the State ; and provided, that, if a war breaks out,
they shall be bound to serve three years after they are called
into service, and to march wherever the service may require.

The conditions on the part of the public to be these : That
they shall be furnished with a musket, bayonet, cartouch box,
and twenty-four rounds of powder and ball ; and once every two
years with a suit of uniform, to consist of a coat, jacket, and
overall of cloth ; the arms and accoutrements to become their
property at the end of their time of service.

These corps to be obliged to assemble, by companies, once a
week ; and by regiments monthly, for exercise and inspection ;
and to encamp at a general rendezvous twenty days in each
year, to be paid at the rate of six pence per day to each non-
commissioned officer and private. Whenever any of the militia
are called into service, they shall be entitled to the same emolu-
ments with the regular troops.

The Committee are of opinion, that, with a view to these
establishments, it will be proper to direct the Commander-in-
Chief to appoint a Board, consisting of not more than five offi-
cers, of which the Inspector-General, Commandant of Artillery,
and Chief Engineer, to be members, to revise the system of regu-
lations for the army of the United States ; and to digest, for the
consideration of Congress, a General Ordinance for the service of
the troops of the United States, as well the corps of Engineers
and of Horse, as of Infantry : also an ordinance to be recom-
mended to the several States for the service of the militia.

iET. 2<;.]

PEA<* E ESTA BLIS II M E N T. 267

All promotions to be made regimentally to the rank of Col-
onel, according to seniority ; and from the rank of Colonel up-
wards, the officers of Dragoons and [nfantry, ahal! roll togetl
and be promoted according to seniority, without distincti I*

corps.

The rule of promotion in the corps of Engin i be, in

all respects, distinct, and according to seniority in thai corps.

Provided, thai no officer, of whatsoever corps, shall consider

it as a violation of his rights, if any other, who baa been for-
tunate enongh to have an opportunity of distinguishing himself
in a particular manner, receives an extra promotion in the corpsi
on aeeount of brilliant services or peculiar talents.

Ai,,l iii order that Buch extra promotion may not be produced
by misrepresentation, it shall not be made, but on the recommen-
dation of the Commander of the army, accompanied by an au-
thenticated state of the Pacts and reasons upon which the recom-
mendation is founded ; together with the opinion of the officer
commanding the corps in which the promotion is to be made :
all which shall be reported to Congress by the Secretary at War,
with his sentiments thereupon.

The officers to command the different corps in the first
ins. appointed out of such of those, now in service,

are willing to continue in the military line : provided, that

ae who are retain. -.1, shall no1 be entitled to the half pay Got
their services during the war.

The men to be enlisted for six years.

Women to each company.

Notes to be recollected.

An absurdity, that Congress are empowered to build and equip a
navy : and yet, in time of peace, the States are to keep up one for their

own defence. ,

There must be a navy Formed in time of peace it ought to be pro-
portioned to our defence ; and.will then ho all in the hands of certain
States.

Congress, constituted ae they are, can't have time Fot usurp I
Usurpation in such an extensive empire requires long previous prepa-

268 HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[Mi. 26.

A people seldom reform with moderation. Men, accustomed to read
of usurpation suddenly effected in small cities, look upon such a thing
as a work of a day.

The weak side of democracies, is danger of foreign corruption.
No individual has sufficient interest in the State, to be proof against the
seduction.

The want of an army lost the liberty of Athens — vide Demos-
thenes.

June 19th, 1783.
Resolved, That copies of the letter from the Commander-in-
Chief, of the seventh instant, with its inclosures, be transmitted
to the several States, for their information, and that their atten-
tion be recalled to the resolution of the second of Maj last, to
facilitate the punctual payment of the notes issued to the army,
on account of their pay. That the Commander-in-Chief be in-
formed Congress approve the variation made by him in the man-
ner of furloughing the troops.

June 21st, 1783.

Resolved* That the president and supreme executive council
of Pennsylvania be informed, that the authority of the United
States having been this day grossly insulted by the disorderly
and menacing appearance of a body of armed soldiers about the
place within which Congress were assembled, and the peace of
this city being endangered by the mutinous disposition of the
said troops now in the barracks, it is, in the opinion of Congress,
necessary that effectual measures be immediately taken for sup-
porting the public authority.

Resolved, That the committee, on a letter from Colonel Butler,
be directed to confer, without loss of time, with the supreme execu-
tive council of Pennsylvania, on the practicability of carrying the
preceding resolution into effect ; and that, in case it shall appear to
the committee that there is not a satisfactory ground for expecting

* See Works, vol. i. pp. 374, 393, 395, 409.

JEr. 26.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS. 269

adequate and prompl exertions of this State, for supporting the
dignity of the Federal Government, the President, on the ad\
of the committee, be authorized to summon the members of
Congress to meet on Thursday next, al Trenton or Princeton,
in New Jersey, in order thai further and more effectual measures
may be taken for suppressing the presenl revolt, and maintain'
ing the dignity and authority of the United States.

Resolved, Thai the Secretary a1 War be directed to commu-
nicate to the Commander-in-Chief the Btate and disposition of the
said troops, in order thai be may take immediate m 3 to

dispatch to this city such force as he mayjudge expedient for
suppressing any disturbances thai may ensue.

RESOLUTIONS FOR A GENERAL CONVENTION.

June 80th, 17

Whereas, in the opinion of this Congress, the Confederation
e 1 rnited States is defective in the following essential i>"ints,
to wit :

/ stly, and generally ; En confining the powerofthe Federal
eminent within too narrow limits ; withholding from it that
efficacious authority and influence, in all matters of general con-
cern, which arc indispensable to the harmony and welfare of the
whole; embarrassing general provisions by unnecessary details,
and inconvenienl exceptions, incompatible with their nature,
tending only to create jealousies and disputes respecting the
proper hounds of the authority of the United States, and of that
of the particular States, and a mutual interference of the one
with the other.

v tmdly: In confounding legislative and executive pov
in a single body; as, that of determining on the Dumber and
quantity of force, land and naval, to be employed for the com-
mon defence, and of directing their operations when raised and
equipped, with that of ascertaining and making requisite

270 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 26.

the necessary sums, or quantities, of money to be paid by the
respective States into the common treasury ; contrary to the most
approved and well-founded maxims of free government, which
require, that the legislative, executive, and judicial authorities,
should be deposited in distinct and separate hands.

Thirdly : In want of a Federal Judicature, having cognizance
of all matters of general concern in the last resort ; especially
those in which foreign nations, and their subjects, are interested:
from which defect, by the interference of the local regulations of
particular States militating, directly or indirectly, against the
powers vested in the Union, the national treaties will be liable to
be infringed, the national faith to be violated, and the public
tranquillity to be disturbed.

Fourthly : In vesting the United States in Congress assembled,
with the poiver of general taxation, comprehended in that of
" ascertaining the necessary sums of money to be raised for the
common defence, and of appropriating and applying the same,
for defraying the public expenses ;" and yet, rendering that power,
so essential to the existence of the Union, nugatory, by with-
holding from them all control over either the imposition or the
collection of the taxes for raising the sums required : whence it
happens, that the inclinations, not the abilities, of the respective
States, are, in fact, the criterion of their contributions to the com-
mon expense ; and the public burthen has fallen, and will con-
tinue to fall, with very unequal weight.

Fifthly: In fixing a rule for determining the proportion of
each State towards the common expense, which, if practicable at
all, must, in the execution, be attended with great expense, in-
equality, uncertainty, and difficulty.

Sixthly : In authorizing Congress " to borrow money, or emit
bills, on the credit of the United States," without the power of
establishing funds to secure the repayment of the money bor-
rowed, or the redemption of the bills emitted ; from which must
result one of these evils : Either a want of sufficient credit, in
the first instance, to borrow, or to circulate the bills emitted,
whereby, in great national exigencies, the public safety may be
endangered ; or, in the second instance, frequent infractions of

Jfc. 36.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS. -71

the public engagements, disappointments to lend ititions

of the calamities of depreciating paper, a continuance of the in-
justice and mischiefs of an unfunded debt, and, first or last, the
annihilation of public credit.

[ndeed, in authorizing Congress at all, to emil an unfui
paper as the sign of value, a resource, whioh, though useful in
the infancy of this country, indispensable in the commencement
of the revolution, oughl no1 to continue a formal part of the Con-
stitution, iHM- ever, hereafter, to !"■ employed, being, in its na-
ture, pregnant with abuses, and liable to he made the engine of
imposition ami fraud; holding out temptations equally perni-
cious to the integrity of Government and to the morals oi the

S enthly: In not making proper or < ipetent j>rovisions for

interior or exterior defence: For interior defence, by leaving it
to the individual States to appoint all regimental officers of the
land forces; to raise the men in their own way; to clothe, arm,
and equip them at the expense of the United States: from which
circumstances, have resulted, and will hereafter result, great con-
fusion in the military department; continual disputes of rank ;
guid and disproportionate levies of men: an enormous in-

-e of expense, tor want of system and uniformity in the man-
ner of conducting them, and from the competitions of State,
bounties:— by an ambiguity in the fourth clause of the sixth
article, susceptible of a construction which would devolve upon
the particular States in time of peace, the care of their own de-
fence, both by sea and land, and would preclude the United
States from raising a single regiment, or building a single ship,
before a declaration of war, or an actual commencement of hos-
tilities; a principle dangerous to the Confederacy in different
respects, by leaving the Tinted States at all times unprepi
for the defence of their common rights ; obliging them to begin

to raise an army, and to build and equip a navy, at the moment

they would have occasion to employ them; and by putl
into the hands of a tew Mates, who, from their local situal
are more immediately exposed, all the standing forces of the
country ; thereby, not only leaving the care of tic <<\ the

272 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 26.

whole to a part, which will naturally be both unwilling and un-
able to make effectual provision at its particular expense, but
also furnishing grounds of jealousy and distrust between the
States ; unjust, in its operation, to those States in whose hands
they are, by throwing the exclusive burthen of maintaining those
forces upon them, while their neighbors, immediately, and all the
States, ultimately, would share the benefits of their services.

For exterior defence, in authorizing Congress to " build and
equip a navy," without providing any means of manning it,
either by requisitions of the States, by the power of registering
and draughting the seamen in rotation, or, by embargoes in
cases of emergency, to induce them to accept employment on
board the ships of war : the omission of all of which, leaves no
other resource than voluntary enlistment ; a resource which has
been found ineffectual in every country, and, for reasons of pe-
culiar force, in this.

Eighthly : In not vesting in the United States, a general su-
perintendence of trade ; equally necessary in the view of reve-
nue and regulation : Of revenue, because duties on commerce,
when moderate, are one of the most agreeable and productive
species of it ; which cannot, without great disadvantages, be im-
posed by particular States, while others refrain from doing it,
but must be imposed in concert, and by laws operating upon the
same principles, at the same moment, in all the States : other-
wise, those States which should not impose them, would engross
the commerce of such of their neighbors as did : Of regulation,
because, by general prohibitions of particular articles, by a judi-
cious arrangement of duties, sometimes by bounties on the man-
ufacture or exportation of certain commodities, injurious branch-
es of commerce might be discouraged ; favorable branches
encouraged ; useful products and manufactures promoted : none
of which advantages, can be as effectually attained by separate
regulations, without a general superintending power: because,
also, it is essential to the due observance of the commercial stip-
ulations of the United States with foreign powers ; an interfer-
ence with which, will be unavoidable, if the different States have
the exclusive regulation of their own trade, and, of course, the
construction of the treaties entered into.

jEt.26.] RESOLUTIONS l\ CONGRESS. -''■'<

Ninthly: In defeating essential powers by provisions and
limitations inconsistenl with their nature; as, the power of mak-
ing treaties with foreign nations; "provided thai no treaty of
commerce shall be made, whereby the legislative power of the
respective States shall be restrained from imposing such imp
and duties on foreigners, as their own people are subjected
or, from prohibiting the importation or exportation of a
cies of goods or commodities whatsoever :" a proviso, suscepl
of an interpretation which includes a constitutional possibility oi
defeating the treaties of commerce entered into by the In
States: A- also the power "of regulating the trade and manag-
ing all affairs with the Indians, nol members of any of the
States; provided that the Legislative righl of any State, within its
own limits, be not infringed or violated ;" and others of a simi-
lar nature.

/ ithly: In granting the United States the sole power "of
regulating the alloy and value of coin struck by their own
authority, or by that of the respective States," without the
power of regulating the foreign coin in circulation ; though the
one is essential to the due exercise of the other, as there ought
to be such proportions maintained, between the national and
foreign coin, as will give the former a preference in all internal
negotiations; and without the latter power, the operations of
government, in a matter of primary importance to the oomm<
and finances of the United States, will be exposed to number-
less obstructions.

Eleventhly: In requiring the assenl of nint States to matters
of principal importance, and of seven to all others, except ad-
journments from day to day; a rule, destructive of vigor, con-
sistency, or expedition in the administration of atl'airs ; tending
t- subjeel the <■,,-■ of the majority to timt ,<\' the minority, by
putting it in the power of a small combination to retard, and

even to frustrate, the most n ■■ measures; and to
the greater number, in cases which require sp ly determina-
tions, as happens in the most interesting concerns of tie- com-
munity, to come into the views of the smaller; the ,
which, have been felt in critical conjunctures, and mu.-t alv.
B 18

274 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 26.

make the spirit of government, a spirit of compromise and ex-
pedient, rather than of system and energy.

Twelfthly : In vesting in the Federal Government, the sole
direction of the interests of the United States, in their inter-
course with foreign nations, without empowering it to pass all
general laws in aid and support of the laws of nations : for the
want of which authority, the faith of the United States may be
broken, their reputation sullied, and their peace interrupted by
the negligence or misconception of any particular State.

And whereas, experience hath clearly manifested, that the
powers reserved to the Union, in the Confederation, are unequal
to the purpose of effectually drawing forth the resources of the
respective members, for the common welfare and defence : where-
by the United States have, upon several occasions, been exposed
to the most critical and alarming situations ; have wanted an
army adequate to their defence, and proportioned to the abilities
of the country ; have, on account of that deficiency, seen essen-
tial posts reduced, others eminently endangered, whole States,
and large parts of others, overrun and ravaged by small bodies
of the enemy's forces ; have been destitute of sufficient means of
feeding, clothing, paying, and appointing that army ; by which
the troops, rendered less efficient for military operations, have
been exposed to sufferings, which nothing but unparalleled pa-
tience, perseverance, and patriotism, could have endured ; where-
by, also, the United States have been too often compelled to
make the administration of their affairs a succession of tempo-
rary expedients, inconsistent with order, economy, energy, or a
scrupulous adherence to the public engagements ; and now find
themselves, at the close of a glorious struggle for independence,
without any certain means of doing justice to those who have
been its principal supporters; to an army which has bravely
fought and patiently suffered ; to citizens who have cheerfully
lent their money, and to others who have, in different ways,
contributed their property and their personal service to the com-
mon cause ; obliged to rely, for the only effectual mode of doing
that justice, by funding the debt on solid securities, on the pre-
carious concurrence of thirteen distinct deliberatives, the dissent

JEt. 26.] RE SOLUTION S l \ CONGRESS. - 7 5

of either of which, may defeal the plan, and Leave these Stal
at thia early period of their existence, involved in all the dis-
grace and mischiefs of violated faith and national bankruptcy.

A id whereas, aotwithstanding we have, by the blessinj
Providence, so far happily escaped the complicated dangers of
Buch a situation, and now see the object of our wishes secured
U an bonorable peace, it would be unwise to hazard a repeti-
tion of the Bame dangers and embarrassments in any future war
in which these States may be engaged, or to continue this i
tensive empire under a government unequal to Its protection
and prosperity.

And whereas, it is essential to the happiness and security of
these States, that their union should be established on the most
solid foundations : and it is manifest thai this desirable object
can not be effected but by a government capable, both in peace
and war, of making every member of the Union contribute, in
just proportion, to the common necessities, and of combining and
directing the forces and wills of the several parts to a general
end; to which purposes, in the opinion of Congress, the present
Confederation is altogether inadequate.

And whereas, on the spirit which ma\ direel the councils
and measures of these States, al the presenl juncture, may de-
pend their future safety and welfare; Congress conceive it to
their duty, freely to state to their constituents, the defects \\ hich,
by experience, have been discovered in the presenl plan of the
Federal Union, and solemnly to call their attention to a re-
visal and amendment of the Same.

Therefore, Resolved, That it be earnestly recommended to

the several States, to appoint a Convention, to meet, al

, on the day of , with full powers

to revise the Confederation, and to adopt and propose such alter-
ations as to them shall appear necessary ; to be finally approved
or rejected by the States respectively : and that a Committee ,.f
be appointed to prepare an address upon the subj<

276 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 26.

July 1, 1783.

Resolved, That Major General Howe be directed to march
such part of the force under his command as he shall judge ne-
necessar y, to the State of Pennsylvania, in order that immediate
measures may be taken to confine and bring to trial all such per-
sons belonging to the army as have been principally active in the
late meeting, to disarm the remainder, and to examine fully into
all the circumstances relating thereto.

That in the exercise of the foregoing resolution, if any mat-
ters shall arise which may concern the civil jurisdiction, or in
which its aid may be necessary, application be made for the same
to the executive authorities of the State.

July 1, 1783.

The Committee, consisting of Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Ellsworth,
and Mr. Peters, to whom were referred a letter of the 17th of
June, from Col. E. Butler, at Lancaster, and sundry papers com-
municated to Congress by the Executive Council of Pennsylva-
nia, through their delegates, having, on the 19th of June, made
a verbal report, and on the 20th of the same month, a report in
writing, and the written report being on the 30th recommitted,
that they might amend it by adding thereto their verbal report,
and the report being this day brought in with the said amend-
ment, ordered that it be entered on the journal.

Report

The Committee, to whom were referred the letters and papers
communicated to Congress by the Executive Council of Penn-
sylvania, through their delegates, report : That they had a con-
ference yesterday, as directed, with the Supreme Executive Coun-
cil, in which, in the first instance, the propriety of calling out a
detachment of militia to intercept the mutineers on their march
from Lancaster, was proposed to the Council, suggesting the dan-
ger of their being suffered with impunity to join the troops in

jEt. 26.]

REPORTS. -77

the barracks, who a few 'lavs before had manifested a dangerous
spirit by an insolenl and threatening mess it to Congress in
thr li.ini. • of a board of sergeants, and who, it was apprehended,
would 1"' ready to make common cause with those on their
march for mutinous purposes: that thr Council, baying shown a
reluctance to call oul any part of the militia, expressing an "pin-
ion that they would not be willing to act till som itrage Bhould

have been committed by thr troops, there appeared to thr com-
mittee qo alternative hut to endeavor to dissuade thr mutineers
from coming t<> town: and, it' they failed in thai attempt, to
make use of expedients to prevenl thr troops in the barracks
from joining in any excesses, ami to induce the detachment from
Lancaster to return to that place: that, in this view, and at theii
desire, the Assistant Secretary a1 War met the detachmenl thru
on it.s march to the city, and endeavored to engage them to re-
turn to the former place, urging the considerations contained in
the annexed instructions within; but the said detachment per-

ed in their intention of coming to this city, and arrived here
this morning: that upon conferring with the Superintendent of
Finance, they find there is a probability that the Paymaster Gene-
ral, to whom the settlement of thr accounts of the army has been

omitted, and who. having all the documents in I ion,

• . alone execute the business with propriety, will shortly ar-
rive from thr army, and will immediately enter upon a
ment with thr troops in this State: that, in thr mean time, mea-
sures will 1h> taken to prepare the business for a future adjust-
ment : that there will immediately !><■ .-rut to Lancaster a sum of
money to be paid to thr troops on account of the month's pay
heretofore described to l>r advanced to them, thr payment of
which has hitherto been delayed by particular circumstar
together with notes for three month.-' pay, intended to hr advanc-
ed to the men when furloughed: that they have desired this in-
formation t<> hr transmitted to thr commanding officer here ami
at Lancaster, with this declaration, that the corps stationed at
Lancaster, including thr detachment, ran only hr settled with
or paid at that place.

278 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 26.

Instructions to Major Jackson.
Sir:

Information having been received that a detachment of about
eighty mutineers are on their way from Lancaster to this place,
you will please to proceed to meet them, and to endeavor, by every
prudent method, to engage them to return to the post they have
left. You will inform them of the orders that have been given,
permitting them to remain in service till their accounts shall
have been settled, if they prefer it to being furloughed, and of the
allowance of pay which has been made to the army at large, and
in which they are to be included. You will represent to them
that their accounts cannot be settled without their officers, whom
they have left behind them at Lancaster. You will represent to
them with coolness but energy, the impropriety of such irregular
proceedings, and the danger they will run by persisting in an im-
proper conduct. You will assure them of the best intentions in
Congress to do them justice, and of the absurdity of their expect-
ing to procure it more effectually by intemperate proceedings.
You will point out to them the tendency which such proceedings
may have to raise the resentments of their country, and to in-
dispose it to take effectual measures for their relief. In short, you
will urge every consideration in your power to induce them to
return, at the same time avoiding whatever may tend to irritate.
If they persist in coming to town, you will give the earliest no-
tice to us of their progress and disposition. Should they want
provisions, you will assure them of a supply, if they will re-
main where they are, which you are to endeavor to persuade
them to do, in preference to coming to town.

I am, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton,
In behalf of the Committee.

Philadelphia, June 19, 1783.

The Committee, consisting of Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Ellsworth,
appointed on the 21st of June, to confer with the Supreme Exe-
cutive Council of Pennsylvania, on the practicability of taking

jET. 26.] R B P O B T s

2 7

effectaal measures to support the public authority, having deli-
vered in a report, ordered thai it be entered in the journal.

/»'< port.

The Committee appointed to confer with the Supreme I
cutive Council of Pennsylvania, on the practicability of taking
effectual measures to support the public authority, inconsequi

of the disorderly and menacing appearan< fabodyofar]

soldiers surrounding the place where Congress were assembled on
Saturday the 21st, beg leave to report:

That they had a conference the morning following with the
Supreme Executive Council, agreeable to the intention of Con-
gress, and having communicated their resolution on that subject,

irmed the Council that Congress considered the proceeding on
which that resolution was founded, of so serious a nature as to
render palliatives improper, and to require that vigorous n
sures should be taken to put a stop to the further progress of the
evil, and to compel submission on the part of the offenders:
that, in this view, they had thought it expedient to declare to the
I- ecutive of the State in which they reside, the u< oi

taking effectual measures for supporting the public authority:
that though they had declined a specification of the m<
which they would deem effectual, it was their sense, that a num-
ber of the militia should be immediately called out, sufficient to
suppress the revolt That Congress, unwilling to expose the
! lited States to a repetition of the insult, had suspended their
ordinary deliberations in this city, till proper steps could be ta
to provide against the possibility of it.

The Council, after some conversation, informed the Committee
that they would wish, previous to a determination, I 3certain
the state and disposition of the militia, and to consult the officers
for that purpose.

The day following the Committee waited upon the Council fo
their final resolution, having previously presented a Letter ad
dressed to his Excellency the President, of which a copy is an

280 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 26.

nexed,* requesting the determination of the Council in writing.
The Council declined a written answer, alleging that it had been
unusual on similar occasions ; that they were unwilling to do any-
thing which might appear an innovation in the manner of con-
ducting conferences between their body and committees of Con-
gress: adding, however, that they were ready to give their
answer in writing, if Congress should request it. They then
proceeded to a verbal answer, in substance as follows : That the
Council had a high respect for the representative sovereignty of
the United States, and were disposed to do every thing in their
power to support its dignity. That they regretted the insult
which had happened, with this additional motive of sensibility,
that they had themselves had a principal share in it. That they
had consulted a number of well-informed officers of the militia
and found that nothing in the present state of things was to be
expected from that quarter. That the militia of the city in gen-
eral, were not only ill-provided for service, but disinclined to act
upon the present occasion. That the Council did not believe any
exertions were to be looked for from them, except in case of fur-
ther outrage and actual violence to person or property. That in
such case a respectable body of citizens would arm for the secu-
rity of their property and of the public peace ; but it was to be
doubted what measure of outrage would produce this effect ; and
in particular, it was not to be expected merely from a repetition
of the insult which had happened.

The Council observed that they thought it their duty to com-
municate their expectations with candor, and passed from the sub-
ject of the practicability of vigorous measures to the policy of
them. They stated, that General St. Clair, with the approbation
of several members of Congress and of Council, had, by a decla-
ration in writing, permitted the mutineers to choose a committee

* „ „ w . Philadelphia, June 23, 1783.

bm -We have the honor to inclose for your Excellency and the Council, a
copy of the resolutaons communicated in our conference yesterday. Having then
fully entered into all the explanations which were necessary on the subject, we
shall not trouble your Excellency with a recapitulation, but as the object is of a
delicate and important nature, we think it our duty to request the determination
ot the Council in writing-

JEt. 26.] REPORTS. 281

of commissioned officers to represenl their grievances to Council,
and had authorized them to expecl that a conference would be
allowed for thai purpose. Thai it was said the mutineers began
t<> be convinced of their error, and were preparing submissions.

Thai from the steps which bad 1 □ taken, the business seemed

to be in a train of negotiation, and that it merited consideration,
how far it would be prudenl to terminate the matter in thai way
rather than employ coercive means.

The Committee remarked, with respecl to the scruple about
giving an answer in writing, thai they could not forbear differing
in opinion as to its propriety. That nothing was more common
than written communications between the Executives of the dif-
ferenl States and the civil and military officers acting under the
authority of the I nited States; that for a much stronger reason
there was a propriety in this mode of transacting business be-
tween the Council and a Committee of the body of Congress.
Thai indeed it would be conformable to the most obvious and
customary rules of proceeding, and that the importance of the
present occasion male it desirable to give every transaction the
greatest precision. With respect to the practicability of employ-
ing the militia, the Committee observed, thai this was a point of
which the Council was alone competent to judge. Thai the duty
of the Committee was performed in explicitly signifying the ex-
pectations of Congress.

And with respect to the policy of coercion, the Committee re-
marked, that the measures taken by Congress clearly indicated
their opinion, thai the excesses of the mutineers had passed the
bounds within which a spirit of compromise might consist with
the dignity and even safety of government. 'That impunity for
what had happened might encourage to more flagrant proceed-
ings, invite others to follow the example, and extend the mis-
chief That the passiveness of conducl observed towards the

detachment which had mutinied at Lancaster, and came to the

city in defiance of their officers, had, do doubt, led to the sub-
sequent violences. That these considerations had determined
Congress to adopt decisive measures. Thai besides the applica-
tion to the State in which they reside, for its immediate support,

282 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 26.

they had not neglected other means of ultimately executing their
purposes, but had directed the Commander-in-Chief to march a
detachment of troops towards the city. That whatever modera-
tion it might be prudent to exercise towards the mutineers, when
they were once in the power of the government, it was neces-
sary, in the first instance, to place them in that situation. That
Congress would probably continue to pursue this object, unless
it should be superseded by unequivocal demonstrations of sub-
mission on the part of the mutineers. That they had hitherto
given no satisfactory evidence of this disposition, having lately
presented the officers they had chosen to represent their griev-
ances, with a formal commission in writing, enjoining them, if
necessary, to use compulsory means for redress, and menacing
them with death, in case of their failing to execute their views.
Under this state of things, the Committee could not forbear sug-
gesting to the Council, that it would be expedient for them so to
qualify the reception which they should think proper to give to
any propositions made by the mutineers, as not to create embar-
rassment, should Congress continue to act on the principle of
coercion.

The Committee finding that there was no satisfactory ground
to expect prompt and adequate exertions on the part of the Ex-
ecutive of this State, for supporting the public authority, were
bound by the resolution under which they acted, to advise the
President to summon Congress to assemble at Princeton or Tren-
ton on Thursday the 26th inst.

Willing, however, to protract the departure of Congress as
long as they could be justified in doing it, still hoping that fur-
ther information would produce more decisive measures on the
part of the Council, ond desirous of seeing what complexion the
intimated submissions would assume, they ventured to defer ad-
vising the removal till the afternoon of the day following that on
which the answer of Council was given. Bet having then re-
ceived no further communication from the Council, and having
learnt from General St. Clair that the submissions proposed to be
offered by the mutineers, through the officers they had chosen to
represent them, were not of a nature sufficiently explicit to be

jEt. 26.] VINDICATION OF CONGRESS. 283

accepted or relied on, thai they would be accompanied by aew
demands, to which it would be improper to listen ; thai the offi-
- themselves composing the committee had shown a mysteri-
ous reluctance to Inform Genera] St. Clair of their proceedii
had refused, in the first instance, to do it, and had afterwards
only yielded to a peremptory demand on his part. The Commit-
tee could do Longer think themselves at liberty to delay their
advice for an adjournment, which they this day accordingly
e; persuaded, at the Bame time, thai it was accessary to im-
press the mutineers with a conviction, thai extremities would be
osed against them before they would be induced to resolve on a
final and unreserved submission;
Philadelphia, June uttli 1783.

Jiilv 2d, 1783.

Whereas, by the Confederation, the assent of nine States is
requisite to the determination of matters of principal importance
to the Tinted States, and the representation in Congri . for

some time past, generally consisted of less than the Dumber of
States: in consequence whereof, the public business, at an in-
teresting juncture, has suffered, and continues to Buffer, greal de-
lay and embarrassment,

I: tlved, That the States which are do1 presenl in Congress,
be informed that it is indispensable they should, without loss Oi
time, send forward a delegation to Congress.

VINDICATION' OF CONGRESS.

However men netnated by private pique or party v;
may take pleasure in stigmatizing the conduct of Congress, with
or without reason, considerate and good men. who are solicitous
for the honor of then- country, will ad upon very differenl prin-
ciples. They will view with regret those instances in which the

284 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 26.

measures of that body may be really entitled to blame — will be
cautious how they bestow it where it is not merited — and will
always examine with candor before they condemn. Though it
is certainly true that the infallibility of that or any other body is
a doctrine to be reprobated in a free country, and a servile com-
plaisance to its errors would be as dangerous as despicable, yet
it must be allowed, that an opposite extreme may be little less
pernicious.

A captious disposition to arraign without examination — to
accumulate undistinguishing censure — to excite jealousies against
the phantom, without the substance of power — to blame for de-
fects in the Constitution itself, not in the administration of it —
is a vice of nearly as mischievous a tendency in the public mind,
as a blind and superstitious reverence.

In the present circumstances of this country, most evil is to be
apprehended from the prevalency of the former spirit ; for new
governments emerging out of a revolution, are naturally deficient
in authority, and require that every effort should be made to
strengthen, not to undermine, the public confidence. This ob-
servation applies with peculiar force to the government of the
Union— the constitutional imbecility of which must be apparent
to every man of reflection.

It is therefore painful to hear, as is too fashionable a practice,
indiscriminate censure heaped upon Congress for every public
failure and misfortune, without considering the entire dispropor-
tion between the means which that body have it in their power
to employ, and their responsibility.

It is equally exceptionable to see all the errors of their prede-
cessors concentred in a mass of accusation against the subsisting
body. If there have been meritorious acts performed by Con-
gress at any period of the revolution, all the praise of it is con-
fined to the immediate actors ; if there have been faults com-
mitted, they descend with increasing odium upon all who come
after. The good deeds of Congress die, or go off the stage with
the individuals who are the authors of them, but their mistakes
are the inheritance of all those who succeed.

It is true, Congress in a political capacity are perpetual ; but

JEt. 26.] VINDICATION OF CONGRESS. 285

the individuals who compose it in fact undergo frequenl ehanj
It is qoI more reasonable to charge any presenl sei of memb
for th«' mismanagement of a former set — allowing it to I"- real —
than it would be to impute to George the Third the crimes of
Eenry the Eighth. It is a principle of the English law thai tin:
king never dies, and yet no mac in his senses, on accounl of this
fiction of the law, will transfer to the reigning monarch the in-
famy of his predecessor's misconduct. It is not less unjust or
absurd to blame a subsisting Congress, the greater part of whose
members have had no agency in the measures which are tln>
objects of crimination, lor the ill consequences of those measures.

It is not much to he wondered at that this error should exist
anion-- the uninformed parts of the community, who can only be
expected to have general notions of Congress, without any pre-
ideas of their constitution, and who, therefore, will he dis-
posed to view them always under the same form, without attend-
ing to the changes which the body is continually undergoing.
But when men more enlightened tall into the same fallacy, it is
an argument of disingenuous intentions, and proves them to be
under the influence of passion, of prejudice, or of something
worse.

The chief topics of clamor against Congress are, either posi-
tive breaches of faith, by avowed departures from express stipu-
lations, as in the reduction of the Continental money from forty
to one, or negative, as the general non-performance of the public
engagemet

As to those of the first kind, without entering into a discus-
sion of particular instances— withoul examining whether those
which may have happened, may have been produced by inexpe-
rience, necessity, levity, or design — it will be sufficient, in justi-
fication of the presenl Congress to Bay, that a large majority of

them had no share whatever in those acts which are the sub

of complaint. And to those of the lasl kind, there always has
been, and is, a conclusive and satisfactory answer to be given for
Congress. The power of raising money is not vested in them.
All they can do, is to assign their quota to the several Si
and to make requisitions from them. This they have uot fe I

286 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 26.

to do in the most ample manner ; and if the States do not com-
ply, to enable them to execute their engagements, the delin-
quency is not to be charged upon Congress.

Should it be said, that Congress ought not to have made en-
gagements without the power of fulfilling them, this is to say,
that they ought to have given up the contest, and to have be-
trayed the liberty of America. It was necessary to incur debts
to support the revolution ; and no man who is a sincere friend to
it, can be serious in advancing the position, that this essential
resource ought not to have been employed, from a scruple of that
nature.

If Congress, indeed, after a definitive conclusion of the peace,
consent to be the instruments of future engagements, without
more effectual provision at their disposal, they will then merit
the indignation of every honest man.

But the present Congress have more than this general argu-
ment to offer in their vindication. They can say, with truth,
that so far from having committed any positive violations of
faith, they have manifested a uniform and anxious solicitude
for the restoration of public credit, and for doing complete justice
to every class of public creditors. Having found, by repeated
and daily experience, that the provisions of the Confederation
were unequal to the purpose, they have had recourse to extra-
ordinary expedients. The plan of the (April 18, 1782,)
for funding the public debt, is now depending before the several
legislatures ; nor is it possible for them.to give a more decisive
proof of their disposition to justice than is contained in that
plan.

Congress stand in a very delicate and embarrassing situation.
On the one hand, they are blamed for not doing what they have
no means of doing; on the other, their attempts are branded
with the imputations of a spirit of encroachment, and a lust of
power.

In these circumstances, it is the duty of all those who have
the welfare of the community at heart, to unite their efforts to
direct the attention of the people to the true source of the public
disorders — the want of an efficient General Government —

JEt. 27.] PHOCION. -NT

an<l to impress upon them this conviction, thai these States, to be
happy, i mi.-! bave a stronger bond of Union, and a Confedera-
tion capable of drawing forth the resources of the country. This

will be :i more laudahle otvu | at i< >n tli.'in that < >f i-;i\ i 1 1 . linst

measures, the imperfection of which is the necessary resnll of the

( '- »i 1-1 i t ul ion.

The residue is qo( preserved,

LETTERS FROM PHOCION

To Oie considerate Oitm ns of New- York, on tin- Politics of the Times,

in conseqtu nee oj the Peace.

1784.

LETTER I.

While not only every personal artifice is employed by a few
heated and inconsiderate spirits, to practise upon the passions of
the people, but the public papers are made the channel of the
-' inflammatory and pernicious doctrines, tendL I the sub-
rion of all private security and genuine liberty; it would be
culpable in those who understand and value the true inter
of the community to be silent spectators. It is, however, a com-
mon observation, that men, 1 »• - 1 1 1 upon mischief, are mor<
in the pursuit of their objed than those who aim at doing good.
Hence it is, in the presenl moment, we see the most industrious
efforts made to violate the Constitution <>t' this State, to trample
upon the rights of the subject, and to chicane or infringe the
most solemn obligations of treaty ; while dispassionate and up-
right men almost totally ueglecl the means >A' counteracting
these dangerous attempts. A >f duty alone calls forth the

observations, which will be submitted to the good sense of the
people, in this paper, from our who has more inclination than
leisure to serve them; and who has had too deep a Bhare m the

288 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 27.

common exertions in this Revolution, to be willing to see its
fruits blasted by the violence of rash or unprincipled men, with-
out, at least, protesting against their designs.

The persons alluded to, pretend to appeal to the spirit of
whigism ; while they endeavor to put in motion all the furious
and dark passions of the human mind. The spirit of whigism
is generous, humane, beneficent, and just. These men inculcate
revenge, cruelty, persecution, and perfidy. The spirit of whig-
ism cherishes legal liberty, holds the rights of every individual
sacred, condemns or punishes no man without regular trial and
conviction of some crime declared by antecedent laws ; repro-
bates equally the punishment of the citizen by arbitrary acts of
legislation as by the lawless combinations of unauthorized indi-
viduals ; while these men are advocates for expelling a large
number of their fellow-citizens unheard, untried ; or, if they can-
not effect this, are for disfranchising them, in the face of the
Constitution, without the judgment of their peers, and contrary
to the law of the land.

The thirteenth article of the Constitution declares, "that no
member of the State shall be disfranchised, or defrauded of any of
the rights or privileges sacred to the subjects of this State by the
Constitution, unless by the law of the land or the judgment of his
peers." If we inquire what is meant by the law of the land, the
best commentators will tell us, that it means due process of law;
that is, by indictment or presentment of good and lawful men* and
trial and conviction in consequence.

It is true, that in England, on extraordinary occasions, at-
tainders for high treason, by Act of Parliament, have been
practised; but many of the ablest advocates for civil liberty
have condemned this practice ; and it has commonly been exer-
cised with great caution upon individuals only by name, never
against general descriptions of men. The sense of our Constitu-
tion on this practice, we may gather from the forty-first article,
where all attainders, other than for crimes committed during the
late war, are fordidden.

* Coke upon Magna Charta, chap. 29, page 60.

jEt. 27.] PHOCION. 889

If there had been no Treaty in the \\ ay, the I legislature might,
by noma, have attainted particular persons of high treason for
crimes committed during the war; but, independent of the

Tivatv, it could not, ami cannot, without, tyranny, disfranc]
or punish whole classes of citizens by general descriptions, with-
out trial and conviction of offences known 1>\ laws previously
established, declaring the offence and prescribing the penalty.

This is a dictate of natural justice, and a fundamental prin*
ciple of law and liberty.

Nothing is more common than for a five people, in times of
heat and violence, to gratify momentary passions, by letting into
the government, principles ami precedents which afterwards
prove fatal to themselves. Of this kind is the doctrine of dis-
qualification, disfranchisement, and banishment, by Acts of Leg-
islature. The da n,",-! Tons consequences of this power are mani-
fest. If the Legislature can disfranchise any number of citizens
at pleasure, by general descriptions, it may soon confine all the
votes to a small number of partisans, and establish an aristocracy
or an oligarchy. If it mav banish at discretion, all those whom

ticular circumstances render obnoxious, without hearing or
trial, no man can be safe, nor know when he mav be the inno-

• victim of a prevailing faction. The name of liberty app
to Buch a government, would be a mockery of common sense.

The English Wnigs, after the Revolution, from an overween-
ing dread of Popery and the Pretender, from triennial, voted the
parliament septennial. They have been trying, ever since, to
undo this false step in vain, and repenting the effects of their
folly in the overgrown power of the new family. Some impru-
dent WhigS among US, from resentment to those who have t8
the opposite side (ami many of them from Worse motives), would

corrupt the principles of our government, and furnish precedents
for future usurpations on the rights of the community.

Let the people beware <<\' such counsellors. HoweveT a few

designing men may rise in consequence, and advance their pri-
vate interests by such expedients, the people, at large,

to be the Losers, in the event, whenever they Buffer a departure
B 19

290 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 27.

from the rules of general and equal justice, or from the true
principles of universal liberty.

These men not only overleap the barriers of the Constitution
without remorse, but they advise us to become the scorn of na-
tions, by violating the solemn engagements of the United States.

They endeavor to mould the Treaty with Great Britain, into
such form as pleases them, and to make it mean any thing or
nothing, as suits their views. They tell us, that all the stipula-
tions, with respect to the Tories, are merely, that Congress will
recommend, and the States may comply or not, as they please.

But let any man of sense and candor read the Treaty, and it
will speak for itself. The fifth article is indeed recommendatory ;
but the sixth is as positive as words can make it. " There shall
he no future confiscations made, nor prosecutions commenced
against any person or persons, for or by reason of the part which
he or they may have taken in the present war ; and no person
shall, on that account, suffer any future loss or damage, either in
his person, liberty, or property."

As to the restoration of confiscated property, which is the
subject of the fifth article, the States may restore or not, as they
think proper, because Congress engage only to recommend ; but
there is not a word about recommendation in the sixth article.

Quotations are made from the debates in Parliament, to prove
that the whole is understood as recommendatory ; but the ex-
pressions in those quotations, turn altogether upon those persons
who have been actually proscribed, and their property confis-
cated ; they have no relation to those who come under the sixth
article, or who might be the objects of future prosecution or
punishment. And to this it may be added, that it is absurd
and inadmissible in fair reasoning, to combat the plain, authentic
language of solemn treaty, by loose recitals of debates in news-
papers.

The sound and ingenuous construction of the two articles,
taken collectively, is this : That where the property of any per-
sons, other than those who have been in arms against the United
States, had been actually confiscated, and themselves proscribed,
then Congress are to recommend a restoration of estates, rights,

JSt. 27.J PHOCION 29J

and properties; and, with respecl to those who had been in
arms, they are to recommend permission for them to remain a
twelvemonth in the country, to solicil a Like restoration; but
with respecl to all those who were do1 in this situation, and who
had not already been the ob ects of confiscation and banishment
they were to be absolutely secured from all future injury to i

son, liberty, or property.

To Bay that this exemption from positive injury, does not
imply a righl to live among us as citizens, Is a pitiful sophist]
it is to say that the banishment of a person from his country,
connections, and resources (one of the greatesl punishments that
can befall a man), is do punishmenl at all.

The meaning of the word lihrrtij has been contested. Its
true sense musl be, the enjoymenl oi the common privileges of
subjects under the same government. There is uo middle Hue
of just construction between this sense and a mere exemption
from personal imprisonment I If the lasl were adopted, the sti-
pulation would become uugatory; and, by depriving those who
are the subjects of it, of the protection of government, it would
amount to a virtual confiscation and banishment : for I »uld

not have the benefil of the laws against those who should
gressors.

Should it be said, that they may receive protection without be-
ing admitted to a full enjoyment ol' the pi'i\il,-. -; this
musl be either matte]- of righl under the I . or matter of
grace in the government. If the latter, the governmenl may re-
it : and then the objection presents itself, that the Treaty
would, by this construction, he virtually defeated: if matter of

right, then it follows, that more i- intended by the word liberty

than a mere exemption from imprisoment ; and where shall the

line he drawn? Q( ipricious and arbitrary line, hut one war-

ranted by rational and legal construction?

To say that, by espousing the cause of Grreal Britain, they
became aliens, and that it will satisfy the Treaty to allow them
the same protection to which aliens are entitled, is to admit
that subjects may, at pleasure, renounce their allegiance to the
State of which they are members, and devote themseh

292 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 27.

foreign jurisdiction ; a principle contrary to law and subversive
of government. But even this will not satisfy the Treaty ; for
aliens cannot hold real property under our government : and if
they are aliens, all their real estates belong to the public. This
will be, to all intents and purposes, a confiscation of property.
But this is not all. How does it appear that the persons who
are thus to be stripped of their citizenship, have been guilty of
such an adherence to the enemy, as, in legal contemplation,
amounts to a crime ? Their merely remaining in their posses-
sions, under the power of the conqueror, does not imply this,
but is executed by the laws and customs of all civilized nations.
To adjudge them culpable, they must be first tried and convict-
ed ; and this the Treaty forbids. These are the difficulties in-
volved, by recurring to subtle and evasive, instead of simple and
candid, construction, which will teach us, that the stipulations in
the Treaty amount to an amnesty and act of oblivion.

There is a very simple and conclusive point of view in which
this subject may be placed. No citizen can be deprived of any
right which the citizens in general are entitled to, unless forfeited
by some offence. It has been seen that the regular and consti-
tutional mode of ascertaining whether this forfeiture has been in-
curred, is by legal process, trial, and conviction. This ex vi ter-
mini, supposes prosecution. Now, consistent with the Treaty,
there can be no future prosecution for any thing done on account
of the war. Can we then do, by act of Legislature, what the
Treaty disables us from doing by due course of law ? This
would be to imitate the Eoman General, who, having promised
Antiochus to restore half his vessels, caused them to be sawed in
two before their delivery; or the Platseans, who, having pro-
mised the Thebans to restore their prisoners, had them first put
to death, and returned them dead.

Such fraudulent subterfuges are justly considered more odious
than an open and avowed violation of Treaty.

When these posture-masters in logic are driven from this first
ground of the meaning of the Treaty, they are forced to that of
attacking the right of Congress to make such a stipulation, and
arraigning the impudence of Great Britain in attempting to make

JEt. 27.] PHOCION. 293

terms for our own Bubjecta Bu1 here, as every where ela . thej

are only successful in betraying their narrowness and ig 'ai

Dors nol the ac1 of Confederation place the exclusive right of
making war and pence in the I Fnited States in Cor 0

they not the Bole power of making treaties with foreign natio

not these among the first rights of sovereignty? And does
not the delegation of them to the general Confeden i far

abridge the sovereignty of each particular State? Would nol a
differenl doctrine involve the contradiction of imperium in impe-

What reasonable limits can be assigned to these prero
tives of the Union, other than the general safety and the funda-
mentals of the Constitution? Can it be said, that a Treaty for
arresting the future operations of positive acts of Legislature, and
which has indeed no other effect than that of a pardon for
offences committed against these acts, is an attack upon the fun-
damentals of the State Constitutions? Can it be denied thai the
peace which was made, taken collectively, was manifestly for the

eral good — that it was even favorable to the solid interests
this country, beyond the expectation of the most sanguine? If

this cannol be denied — and none, can deny it, who know either

the value of the objects gained by the Treaty, or the necessity
these States were under at the time of making peace — it follows,
that C and their Ministers acted wisely in making the

Treaty which has been made; and it follows from this, that th

Si ites are hound by it. and oughl religiously to observe it.

The >i(i possidetis, each party to hold what it possesses, is the
point from which nations set out in framing a Treaty of Pei
If one side gives up a pari of its acquisitions, the other -
renders an equivalent in some other way. What is the equiva-
lent given to Great Britain lor all the important concessions she
has made? she has surrendered the capital of this State and its
large dependencies. She is to surrender our immensely valuable
posts on the frontier : and to yield to us a vast tract <<[' v, estern
territory, with one half of the lakes, by which we shall com-
mand almost the whole fur trade. She renounces to us hex
claim to the navigation of the Mississippi, and admits as to sh
in the fisheries, even on better terms than we formerly enji

294 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 27.

it. As she was in possession, by right of war, of all these objects,
whatever may have been our original pretensions to them, they
are, by the laws of nations, to be considered as so much given up
on her part. And what do we give in return ? "We stipulate
that there shall be no future injury to her adherents among us.
How insignificant the equivalent in comparison with the acquisi-
tion ! A man of sense would be ashamed to compare them ; a
man of honesty, not intoxicated with passion, would blush to
lisp a question of the obligation to observe the stipulation on our
part.

If it be said that Great Britain has only restored to us what
she had unjustly taken from us, and that therefore we are not
bound to make compensation ; this admits of several answers :
— Firstly : That the fact is not true ; for she has ceded to us a
large tract of country to which we had even no plausible claim.
Secondly : That however the principle of the objection might
have been jDroper, to prevent our promising an equivalent, it
comes too late after the promise has been made. Thirdly:
That as to the external effects of war, the voluntary law of na-
tions knows no distinction between the justice or injustice of the
quarrel, but in the Treaty of Peace puts the contracting parties
upon an equal footing ; which is a necessary consequence of the
independence of nations : for, as they acknowledge no common
judge, if, in concluding peace, both parties were not to stand
upon the same ground of right, there never could be an adj ust-
ment of differences, or an end of war. This is a settled principle.

Let us examine the pretext upon which it is disputed. Con-
gress, say our political jugglers, have no right to meddle with
our internal police. They would be puzzled to tell what they
mean by the expression. The truth is, it has no definite mean-
ing ; for it is impossible for Congress to do a single act which
will not, directly or indirectly, affect the internal police of every
State. When, in order to procure privileges of commerce to
the citizens of these States, in foreign countries, they stipulate a
reciprocity of privileges here, does not such an admission of
the subjects of foreign countries to certain rights within these
States, operate immediately upon their internal police ? And

jEt.27.] phocion.

were this not .Ion.-, wmiM not the power of making commercial
treaties, vested in Congress, become a mere nullity? In Bhort,
if aothing was to be done by Congress thai would affect our in-
ternal police, in the Large sense in which it has been taken,
u,,.lM Qo1 .,n tne powers oi the Confederation be annihilated,

ami thr CTnion dissolved?

Hut. say they again, Buch a thin- was aeveT heard of, i - an
indemnityfor traitorous subjects stipulated in a Treaty oi !'•
History will inform them that it is a stipulation often made.
T o examples shall be cited: Thr Treaty oi Munster, which
put an end to the differences between Spam and the United
after the revolution of those Provinces: The Tr<

eluded, in seventeen hundred and thirty-eight, be1 the

:„,,. France, Spain. Pola.nl ami several otherpow< led

thr Christian peace. The war whirl, preceded this Treal
one of the most complicated in whirl, Europe had hem en
thr succession to thr Spanish Monarchy, and the righl to
throneofPola.nl, had been included in it: Stanislaus having
been obliged to abdicate the crown. Differenl parts of the na-
• ,s concerned had taken opposite sides. Many of the Gen
princes had been in arms againsl thr Empire to which I
owed obedience. This Treaty qo1 only mutually stipulates in-

mity to thr subjects of thr respective powers, bul even resti-
tution of property ami offices. The Emperor, who contracted in
behalf of thr Empire, has much ttensive powers, asl

the Empire, than Congress, as representative of tin-

States

Bui let it be admitted that Congress had no right to e
into this article; do not equity and prudence strongly urge the

eral States to comply with it ? We have, in part, enjoyed
thr benefit of thr Treaty; in consequence of which, we, of tins
State, are now in pos i of our capital ; ami this implies an

obligation in conscience, to perform what is to be performed on
our part. But there is a consideration which will, perl
have more force with mm who seem to be superior to
tious obligations; i1 is that thr British are still in po
our frontier posts, which thej may keep in sp.tr of us; ami that
HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 27.

they may essentially exclude us from the fisheries, if they are so
disposed. Breach of Treaty on our part wiU be a just ground for
breaking it on theirs. The Treaty must stand or fall together.
The wilful breach of a single article annuls the whole* Con-
gress are appointed by the Constitution, to manage our foreign
concerns. The nations with whom they contract, are to suppose
they understand their own powers, and will not exceed them.
If they do it in any instance, and we think it proper to disavow
the act, it will be no apology to those with whom they contract
that they had exceeded their authority. One side cannot be
bound, unless the obligation is reciprocal.

Suppose, then, Great Britain should be induced to refuse a
further compliance with the Treaty, in consequence of a breach
of it on our part ; what situation should we be in ? Can we re-
new the war to compel a compliance? We know, and all the
world knows, it is out of our power. Will those who have
heretofore assisted us, take our part ? Their affairs require
peace as well as ours; and they will not think themselves bound
to undertake an unjust war, to regain to us rights which we
have forfeited by a childish levity, and a wanton contempt of
public faith. l

We should then have sacrificed important interests to the
little vindictive, selfish, mean passions of a few. To say nothing
of the loss of territory, of the disadvantage to the whole com
merce of the Union, by obstructions in the fisheries; this State
would lose an annual profit of more than fifty thousand pounds
sterling from the fur trade.

But not to insist on possible inconveniences, there is a certain
evil which attends our intemperance; a loss of character in
Europe Our ministers write, that our conduct, hitherto, in this
respect has done us infinite injury, and has exhibited us in the
light of a people destitute of government, on whose engagements
of course no dependence can be placed

for 2lZZ ,!?° ^ f tbe h6ad °f the ^ wM ^tends
for disqualification and expulsion, endeavor to enlist a number

* Vatel, Book 4, Chapter 4, () 47. Grotius, Book 3, Chapter 19, $ 14.

JEt. 21.]

P HO CI ON. 291

of people on their aide by holding ou1 motives of private advan-
tage to them. To the trader they Bay, Yon will be overborne by
the large capitals ofthe tory merchants; to the mechanic, Xonr
Dua ■ il] be leas profitable, youi wages less considerable, by
the interference of tory workmen. A man, the Leasl acquainted
with trade, will ind 1 langh a1 rach suggestions. Be will know-
that every merchant, or trader, lias an interesl in the aggre$
mass of capital, or stock in trad.-; thai what he himself wantB in
capital, he musl make ap in credit; that unless there are othew
who possess large capitals, this credil cannot be had; and that,
in the diminution of the general capital of the State, comm<

Will decline, and his own prospects of profit will diminish.

These arguments, it* they were understood, would be conclu-
sive with the mechanic: "There is already employment enough

all the workmen in the city, and wages are sufficiently high.
If you could raise them by expelling those who have remained
in the city, and whom you consider as rivals, the extravagant
price of wages would have two effects; it would draw persons
to settle here, not only from other parts of this State, hut from
neighboring Statea Those ela.-ses ofthe community who are
to employ you, will make a great many shifts rather than pay
the exorbitant prices you demand; a man will wear his old
clothes so much longer, before he gets a new suit ; he will buy
imported shoes cheap rather than those made here at so dear a
rate: the owner of a house will defer the repairs as long as pos-
sible; lie will only have those which are absolutely necessary
made; he will not attend to eleganl improvement: and the like
willhappen in other branches. These circumstances will give
less employment, and in a very little time bring back your wages

to what they now are, and even sink them lower. But this is
not all. You are aot required merely to expel youxrival me-
chanics, hut you must drive away the rich merchants and others
who are called tories, to p] our leaders, who will persuade

jqq they are d. • :s to your liberty (though, indeed, they

only mean their own consequence). By this conduct you will
drive away the principal part of those who have the means -t
becoming large undertakers. The carpenters and masons, in par-
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 27.

ticular, must be content with patching up the houses already
built, and buildmg little huts upon the vacant lots, instead of
having profitable and durable employment in erecting laroe and
elegant edifices." b

There is a certain proportion, or level, in all the departments
of industry. It is folly to think to raise any of them, and keep
them long above their natural height. By attempting to do it
the economy of the political machine is disturbed, and till things
return to their proper state, the society at large suffers The
only object of concern with an industrious artisan, as such
ought to be, that there may be plenty of money in the commu-
nity, and a brisk commerce to give it circulation and activity
All attempts at profit, through the medium of monopolv or vio-
lence, will be as fallacious as they are culpable.

But, say some, to suffer these wealthy disaffected men to re-
main among us, will be dangerous to our liberties. Enemies to
our government, they will be always endeavoring to undermine
it and bring us back to the subjection of Great Britain. The
safest reliance of every government, is on men's interests. This
is a principle of human nature, on which all political speculation,
to be just, must be founded. Make it the interest of those citi-
zens who, during the Eevolution, were opposed to us, to be
nends to the new government, by affording them not only pro-
tection but a participation in its privileges, and they will un-
doubted y become its friends. The apprehension of returning
under the dominion of Great Britain is chimerical : if there if
any way to bring it about, the measures of those men against
whose conduct these remarks are aimed, lead directly to it A
disorderly, or a violent government, may disgust the best citi-

penden" ** ^ °f **• Pe°ple tired °f their -de"

thpfrr111^886'1 and 6XhaUSted s^e of Great Britain, and
the pohfccal system of Europe, render it impossible for her ever

tTv wil i °f thf' and aband0n her cause as Asperate.

time7" iirr !6 ^ en°Ugh t0 ri8k their fort-es * -cond
time, in the hopeless attempt of restoring her authority; nor

JET. 27.] PlloriuV ■

will they have any inclination to do it, if fchey are allowed to be
happy under the governmenl of the society in which they I
To make it practicable, if they Bhould be ao disposed, they must
QOl ,„,k gei the governmenl of this State, bu1 of the Qnited
States, into their hands. To suppose this possible, is to Bup]
thai a majority of the numbers, property, and abilities of the

United States, has 1 n, and is, in opposition to the Etevolul

[taSU( - is a clear proof thai this has no1 been the case; and
every man of information among us. knows the contrary. 'I he
supposition itself would Bhow the absurdity of expelling a small
number from the city, which would constitute so insignificant a
proportion of the whole, as, without diminishing their influence,
1,1 only increase their disposition to do mischief. The policy,
iu this case, would be evident, of appealing to their interests

rather than to their fears.

Nothing can be more ridiculous than the idea of expelling a
few from this city and neighborhood, while there are numbers in
differed parts -if this and other States, who must necessarily
, in our governments, and whocan never expect tobethe
obj animadversion or exclusion. It is coimrming many

in their enmity and prejudi ainst the State, to indulge our

enmity and prejudices againsl a few.

The idea of Buffering the tories to live anion- us under dis-
qualifications, is equally mischievous and absurd. It is nee
tating a large body of citizens in the State, to continue enemies
to the government, ready, at all times, in a momenl of commo-
tion, to throw their weight into thai scale which meditat
change, whether favorable or unfavorable to public liberty.

Viewing the subjecl in every possible light, there is nol a
single interest of the community bu1 dictates moderation rather
than violence. Thai honesty is still the besl policy : thai justice
and moderation are the surest supports of every governmenl ; are
maxims which, however they may be called trite, are at all times
true: though too seldom regarded, bul rarely neglected with im-
punity. Were the people of America, with one voice, to
What shall we do to perpetuate our liberties and secure our hap-
piness? the answer would be, "Govern well," and you have
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iET. 27.

nothing to fear, either from internal disaffection or external hos-
tility. Abuse not the power you possess, and you need never
apprehend its diminution, or loss. But if you make a wanton
use of it ; if you furnish another example, that despotism may
debase the government of the many as well as the few ; you, like
all others that have acted the same part, will experience' that
licentiousness is the forerunner to slavery.

How wise was that policy of Augustus, who, after conquering
his enemies, when the papers of Brutus were brought to him"
which would have disclosed all his secret associates, immediately
ordered them to be burnt. He would not even know his ene-
mies, that they might cease to hate where they had nothing
to rear.

How laudable was the example of Elizabeth, who, when she
was transferred from the prison to the throne, fell upon her
knees, and, thanking Heaven for the deliverance it had granted
her from her bloody persecutors, dismissed her resentment,
lhis act of pious gratitude," says her historian, "seems to
have been the last circumstance in which she remembered any
past injuries and hardships. With a prudence and magnanimity
truly laudable, she buried all offences in oblivion, and received,
with affabihty, even those who had acted with the greatest viru-
lence agamst her." She did more; she retained many of the
opposite party in her councils.

_ The reigns of these two sovereigns are among the most illus-
trious in history. Their moderation gave a stability to their
government, which nothing else could have effected. This was
the secret of uniting all parties.

These sentiments are delivered to you, in the frankness of
conscious integrity, by one who feels that solicitude for the good
of the community which the zealots, whose opinions he encoun-
ters profess ; by one who pursues not, as they do, the honors or
emoluments of his country ; by one who, though he has had, in
the course of the Revolution, a very confidential share in the pub-
lic councils civil and military, and has as often, at least, met
changer m the common cause as any of those who now assume
to be the guardians of the public liberty, asks no other reward

jEt. 27.] I' HOC ION. 801

from his countrymen, than to be beard without prejudice for

their own interest.

I'll", i

P. S. While the writer hopes the Bentimenta of this letter
will meet the approbation of discreel and honesl men, he thinks
it necessary to apologize for the hasty and incorrect manner.
Perhaps, too, expressions of too much asperity have been em-
ployed against those who take the lead in the principles which
are here opposed; and feelingsof indignation against the perni-
cious tendency of their measures, haye Dot admitted sufficient
allowances for what is, in some instances, an honest though mis-
taken zeal. Though the writer entertains the worst opinion of
the motives of many of them, he believes there are some who
act from principle.

LKT'J i.i; II.

The little hasty production, under the signature of PHOCION,
has met with a more favorable reception from the public than
was expected. The force of plain truth has carried it al<
against the stream of prejudice; and the principles it holds out,
have gained ground, in spiff of the opposition of those who v
either too angry, or too much interested, to be convinced. Men
of this description, have, til] lately, contented themselves with
virulent invectives against the writer, without attempting to
answer his arguments; but alarmed a1 the ; - of the senti-

ments advocated by him, one of them has at lasl come forward
with an answer ; with what degree of su . ho are

most partial to his opinion determine.

To say that the answer of Mentor is a feeble attempt, w<
be no derogation from his abilities; for, in feet, the c
espouses, admits of nothing solid; and, e of its partis

he is only to be blamed for not knowing its weak sides bel
than to have been tempted to expose it to the experii
defence.

302 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 27.

But, before I enter further into the subject, I shall take oc-
casion to acknowledge, with regret, the injudicious appearance
of warmth in my former letter ; calculated, with many minds, to
raise prejudices against the truths it contains, and liable to be
misrepresented into a general censure on that part of the commu-
nity whose zeal, sacrifices, and sufferings, must ever render them
respectable to the true friends of the Eevolution. I shall only
observe, in apology (as is truly the case), that whatever severity
of animadversion may have been indulged, was wholly directed
against a very small number of men, who are manifestly aiming
at nothing but the acquisition of power and profit to themselves ;
and who, to gratify their avidity for these objects, would tram-
ple upon every thing sacred in society, and overturn the founda-
tions of public and private security. It is difficult for a man,
conscious of a pure attachment to the public weal, who sees it
invaded and endangered by such men, under specious but false
pretences, either to think, or to speak of their conduct, without
indignation. It is equally difficult for one, who, in questions
that affect the community, regards principles only, and not men, to
look with indifference on attempts to make the great principles of
social right, justice, and honor, the victims of personal animosity
or party intrigue.

More tenderness is indeed due to the mistakes of those who
have suffered too much to reason with impartiality ; whose hon-
est prejudices, grown into habits by the impressions of an eight
years' war, cannot at once accommodate themselves to that sys-
tem which the public good requires ; and whose situations are
less favorable to distinguishing between doctrines invented to
serve the turn of a Eevolution, and those which must give
permanent prosperity to the State.

These observations I have thought proper to premise, in
justice to my own intentions ; and I shall now proceed, as con-
cisely as possible, to examine the suggestions of Mentor, inter-
spersing, as I go along, some remarks on objections which,
though omitted by him, have been urged in other shapes against
the principles of Phocion.

Mentor proposes to treat the sentiments of Phocion as a

JEt. 97.] 1' Hoc ION.

political nov.'lty: bu1 if lie is serious, it is a proof thai he is not
even "tolerably well informed." Theyare as "'.'I as anj regular
notions of free governmenl among mankind; and are to be met
with ii<>t only in every speculative writer on these subjects, but
are interwoven in the theory and practice of thai code which
constitutes the law of the land. They speak the common Ian-
guage of this countrj at the beginning of the Revolution, and
are essential to its future happiness and respectability.

The principles of all the arguments I have used, or shall
lie withm the compass of a tew simple propositions, which. I
assented to, need only to be stated.

Firstly: Thai no man can forfeit, or be justly deprived, with-
out his consent, of any right, to which, as a member of the com-
munity, he is entitled, but for some crime incurring the for
feature.

Secondly: That no man ought to be condemned unheard, or
punished for supposed offences, without having an opportunity
of making his defence.*

Thirdly: That a crime is an act committed or omitted, in
violation of a public law, either forbidding or commanding it.f

Fourthly: That a prosecution is, in it.- mosl pn unifica-

tion, an inquiry or mode of ascertaining, whether a particular
person has committed or omitted such act

Fifthly: That duties and rights, as applied to subjects, are re-
ciprocal; or, in other words, thai a man cannot be a for
the purpose of punishment, and no1 i i for the purpoa
privilege.

These propositions will hardly be controverted by any man
professing to be a friend to civil liberty. Thi application of
them will more fully appear hereafter.

1 1 . the Declaration of [ndependence, on the fourth of July,
in the year seventeen hundred and seventy-six, acceded to by
our Convention on the ninth, the late colony oi N i
came an independent State. All the inhabitants, who were

* Vide Address of Congress to Che people of Great Britain. Septembers
f Blackstone, v. »l. iv.. pag

304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 27.

jects under the former government, and who did not withdraw
themselves upon the change which took place, were to be con-
sidered as citizens, owing allegiance to the new government.
This, at least, is the legal presumption ; and this was the princi-
ple, in fact, upon which all the measures of our public councils
have been grounded. Duties have been exacted, and punish-
ments inflicted, according to this rule. If any exceptions to it
were to be admitted, they could only flow from the indulgence of
the State to such individuals as, from peculiar circumstances,
might desire to be permitted to stand upon a different footing.

The inhabitants of the southern district, before they fell un-
der the power of the British army, were as much citizens of the
State as the inhabitants of other parts of it. They must, there-
fore, continue to be such, unless they have been divested of
that character by some posterior circumstance. This circum-
stance must either be,

Their having, by the fortune of war, fallen under the power
of the British army ;

Their having forfeited their claim by their own miscon-
duct;

Their having been left out of the compact by some sub-
sequent association of the body of the State ; or,

Their having been dismembered by treaty.

The first of these circumstances, according to the fundamental
principles of government, and the constant practice of nations,
could have no effect in working a forfeiture of their citizenship.
To allow it such an effect, would be to convert misfortune into
guilt ; it would be, in many instances, to make the negligence of
the society, in not providing adequate means of defence for the
several parts, the crime of those parts which were the immediate
sufferers by that negligence. It would tend to the dissolution of
society, by loosening the ties which bind the different parts to-
gether, and justifying those who should, for a moment, fall un-
der the power of a conqueror; not merely in yielding such a
submission as was exacted from them, but in taking a willing,
interested, and decisive part with him.

It was the policy of the Eevolution, to inculcate upon every

Mr. 27.]

1' Hoc I oN. 805

citizen the obligation of renouncing his habitation, property, and
every private concern, for the Ben ice of his country ; and many
of as have scarcely ye1 Learned to consider il than trea

to have acted in a differenl manner. But il istimewesho
correcl the exuberances of opinions propagated through pol
and embraced from enthusiasm : and while we admit, thai tl.
who did act so disinterested and noble a part, deserve the ap-
plause, and, wherever they can be bestowed with propriety, the
rewards of their country, we Bhould cease to impute indiscrimi-
nate guill to those who, submitting to the accidents of war, re-
mained with their habitations and property. We should Learn
that this conduct is tolerated by the general Bense of mankind;
and that, according to that sense, whenever the State recovers
the possession of such parts as wore, for a time, subdued, the
citizens return at once to all the rights to which they were
formerly entitled.

As to the second head, of forfeiture by miscondui re is

no doubt that all such as, remaining within the British Lines, did
not merely yield an obedience which they could not refuse with-
out ruin, but took a voluntary and interested pari with the i
my, in carrying on the war, became subjeel to the penalties of
treason. They could not, however, by thai conduct,make them-
selves aliens, because, though they were bound topaya temporary
and qualified obedience to the conqueror, they could not trans-
fer their eventual allegiance from the State to a foreign power.
By becoming aliens, too, they would have ceased to be traitors;
and all the laws of the State, passed duri] Revolution, by

which they are considered and punished as subjects, ild have
been, by that construction, unintelligible and unjust The i
indeed, of citizens transforming themselves into al • taking

part againsl the State to which they belong, is altogether of new
invention, unknown and inadmissible in law, and contrary to the
nature of the social compact.

But were this not the case, an insurmountable difficulty

would .-till remain: lor hoV> shall we ascertain who are ali

or traitors, let us call them which we will? It has ;
that the boundaries oi' the British lines cannot determine the
b 20

306 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt.21.

question ; for this would be to say, that the merely falling un-
der the power of the British army, constituted every man a traitor
or an alien. It would be to confound one third of the citizens
of the State in promiscuous guilt and degradation, without evi-
dence or inquiry. It would be to make crimes, which are, in
their nature, personal and individual, aggregate and territorial.
Shall we go into an inquiry to ascertain the crime of each per-
son ? This would be a prosecution ;* and the Treaty forbids all
future prosecutions. Shall the Legislature take the map, and
make a geographical delineation of the rights and disqualifica-
tions of its citizens ? This would be to measure innocence and
guilt by latitude and longitude. It would be to condemn and
punish, not one man but thousands, for supposed offences, without
giving them an opportunity of making their defence. God for-
bid that such an act of barefaced tyranny should ever disgrace
our history ! God forbid that the body of the people should be
corrupt enough to wish it, or even to submit to it !

Bat here we are informed by Mentor, that the Treaty, instead
of offering any obstacle to the views of those who wish to meta-
morphose their fellow-citizens into aliens, is precisely the thing
which removes the difficulty. Mentor is thus far right, that if
they are aliens at all, it must be by some stipulation in the
Treaty : but it requires not a little dexterity to show that such
a stipulation exists. If it exists at all, it must be collected from
the fifth and sixth articles. Let us, by analyzing these articles,
try if we can find it out.

The fifth article speaks, in the first clause, of real British subjects,
whose estates had been confiscated; and stipulates that Congress
shall recommend a restitution.

In the second clause it speaks of persons resident in districts
in the possession of the British forces, who had not borne arms
against the United States ; of whose estates, also confiscated, Con-
gress are, in like manner, to recommend a restitution.

In the third clause, persons of every other description are
comprehended, who are to be permitted to remain twelve months

* Vide Proposition 4th.

jEt. 27.] PHOCION. -"'"7

unmolested, in any of the States, to Bolicil a restoration of their
property, which had been confiscated; Congress recommending,
even with resped to them, a restitution, on condition of their
refunding to the presenl possessors, where there bad been a
sale, th«' bona fide price given by them for the estates in their
possession.

It is apparent, from the dissection of the article, thai the in-
habitants in the Southern district, possessed by the British ai

are not confounded in one general mass of alienism, as has I u

asserted. We find the express words of description are
B tish subjects, and as contradistinguished from them, t

lent in districts within the possession of the British ai
These last, by the letter as well as the spirit of the article, are
deemed imt 1 in' tish subjects.

There is no intelligible medium between a real British sub-
ject and one that is not a British subject at all. A man either
is or is not the subject of a country. The word real, as applied
to the allirmative, is a redundancy. Its natural contrasts are
titious or pretended. If we should call the persons of other descrip-
tions in the article fictitious or pretended British subjects; insj
of justifying, it would exclude, the construction given by Men-
tor. For if they were only fictitious ox pretended British subji
they must be real American subjects: or, in other words, if;
were not real British subjects, which, by accessary implication,
they are declared not to be, they must, of necessity, be American
subjects.

The phrase real British subjects, strictly considered, is inaccu-
rate; but its practical import, with the help ofalittle can
is easily fixed. It is well known, thai in this and othei
the property <">f persons who had never been subjects of this
country, before or after the Revolution, but who had truly I
subjects of Greal Britain, had. in many instances, bens
cated. Sir Henry Clinton, the late Governor Tryon, Lord Dun-
more, are examples, among us, of the real British sub; the
contemplation of the Treaty. All the rest are, of course, Ame-
rican subjects.

To understand the fifth and sixth articles relatively, it is

308 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 27.

necessary to remark, that all the different classes described in the
fifth article, agree in one common quality ; they are all persons
wltose property had been already confiscated. I have placed this
fact in a pointed view ; because it shows incontestably, that the
persons who are the objects of the fifth article, and those who
are the objects of the sixth, are totally different. The one re-
lates to persons whose property had been confiscated, and aims
at restitution ; the other relates to those whose property had not
yet been confiscated, who were not actually suffering the sen-
tence of the law, and has for object, to prevent future prosecu-
tions, confiscations, or injuries to individuals, on account of their
conduct in the war.

This distinction solves the seeming contradiction between the
fifth and sixth articles ; the former providing for the future resi-
dence of persons of a particular description within the State, for
a twelvemonth ; the other prohibiting all future injury or dam-
age to persons, liberty, or property. At first sight, the great
extent of the latter provision appears to supersede, and render
absurd, the former : but the two articles are reconciled, by con-
sidering those who had already suffered the sentence of the law,
as not within the purview of the sixth article, to arrest or remit
that sentence ; while all others against whom sentence had not
passed, are within the protection of the sixth article. It does not
operate with a retrospective and restorative influence, but looks
forward and stops the future current of prosecution and punish-
ment.

To illustrate, in a more striking manner, the fallacy of Men-
tor's comment upon the Treaty, I shall give a recital of it, with
some explanatory additions, the fairness of which, I think, will
not be disputed.

"In the sixth article," says he, "it is provided that no one
shall suffer in his person, liberty, or property, on account of the
part^ he may have taken in the war;" and yet, though no one,
consistently with the Treaty, can hereafter suffer in either of
those respects, yet, many, consistently with the Treaty, may be
declared aliens, may be stripped of the most valuable rights of
citizenship, and may be banished from the State, without injury

JEt. 27.] PHOCION.

to person, liberty, or property, "The fifth article," though it
Bpeaks of none but those who have already had thi son-

fiscated, "describes the persona provided for by the sixth,"
which indeed says, thai there ihattbe do future prosecutions, nor
confiscations, nor injury to person, liberty, or property: but this
only means, thai there shall be no future pr< isecutions commenced
againsl those who have been already attainted and banished ;
confiscations made of the estates of those whose estates ha
already confiscated; nor injuries done to the persons, liberty, and
property of those, who are already to be esteemed dead in lax
attainder and exile: bu1 with reaped to all those who have not
been already attainted, banished, and subjected to confiscation (the
only persons comprehended in the fifth article, and provided for
in the sixth), we may prosecute, banish, confiscate, diafranc]
and do whatever else we think proper. The fifth article stipuL
the good offices of Congress for those who have been already ru-
ined; and the sixth benignly takes care thai they shall no; be
ruined a second time; but leaves all others to their destiny and
our mercy. "The fifth article distinguishes the persons who are
the objects of it into three classes: — First; those who are real
British subjects. The second ; those," meaning British subjects,
who were not real British subjects, described by the appellatio
persons resident in districts in the possession of the British foi
"who had not taken arms against the country. The third i
are described by the provision that is made forthem; nami
They shall have liberty to go into any part of the United :
for twelve months, to solicit a restoration of their estates that
may have been confiscated. This class musl be those who,
longing to America, have taken arms againsl their country.
The first and second class, n is agreed, thai C all recom-

mend to the States a restoration of their property. The third, it
seems, were too infamous for the English minister to ask any
consideration for, except the wretched privilege of asking it for
themselves;" though, in fact, with respecl even to them. ;
expressly stipulated, that < 'ongress shall recommend a i
of their estates, rights, and properties, on paying to the present
possessors, the bona fid price given for them, whi :iaa

310 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 27.

been an actual sale. "But," continues he, "I can find, nowhere,
even a request, and that only implied, that any of the three
classes may dwell among us, and enjoy the immunities and privi-
leges of citizens : for the first class are considered as former sub-
jects; the second and third as acquired subjects of England;"
acquirer! but not real.

Thus we see, by taking the outlines of Mentor's construction,
and filling up the canvas in a manner suited to the design, the
whole is a group of absurdities ; or, in other words, by connect-
ing the consequences with the principles of his comment on the
Treaty, the result is too ridiculous not to strike the meanest un-
derstanding.

It must appear by this time manifest, that there is nothing in
the terms of the Treaty, which countenances fhe supposition that
those who have been within the British lines are considered and
stipulated for as aliens. One ground upon which this idea has
been originally adopted, was, that it would have been improper
to have stipulated for them at all, if they were not aliens : but I
have shown, in my former letter, that a stipulation for subjects,
in similar circumstances, has been far from unprecedented.

A good criterion by which to determine the meaning of the
Treaty, in this respect, is, to recur to the impressions that it
made on its first appearance, before there had been time to con-
trive and substitute an artificial to the natural and obvious sense
of the words. Every mau, by appealing to his own bosom, will
recollect that he was at first struck with an opinion that the dis-
affected were secured from every future deprivation and injury
whatever : and however many may have been chagrined at the
idea that they should be admitted to a parity of privileges with
those who had supported the Bevolution, none doubted that this
was the sense of the Treaty. Indeed, the principal doubt seemed
to be, in the first instance, whether the sixth article was not so
broad as to protect even those who had been attainted, from per-
sonal injury, in case of their return within the State.

I shall not, in this place, revive the question of the power of
Congress to make this stipulation; not only because Mentor
appears to have conceded this point, and to acknowledge our

JEt. 27.]

l> H Of ION. •"' 1 1

obligation to a faithful observance of the Treaty; but b
v.hat baa been offered in mv former letter on this bead, must
continue to appear to me to be absolutely concl
satisfactory limits can b aed to the powers of war, pe

and treaty, rested in Congress, other than those I have men-
ed -the public safety, and the fundamental constitutions oi

society.

When any differenl and intelligible line shall be cb . 1
will give up the 4ur.Mi.Mi, if I cannot Bhow it is inadmissible

iu practice.

The common interests of bumanity, and the general tran-
quillity of the world, require thai the power of making peace,
wherever lodged, should be construed and exercised liberally:
and even in cases where its extent may be doubtful, it is

policy of all wise nations to give it latitude ratlin- than con
it. The exigencies of a community, in time of war, arc so
various, and often so critical, thai it would be extremely dan
ous to prescribe narrow bounds to that power by which it i
be restored. The consequence rnighl frequently be a diffid
of our engagements, and a prolongation of the calamities oi war.

It may not be improper, in this place, to answer an objection
which has been madetoa position contained in my former letter.
It is there laid down as a rale, that the breach of a single article
of a Treaty annuls the whole. The reason of this rule is, that

ry article is to be regarded as the consideration of some other

article.

This has given occasion to observe, that a breach of the
Trei the pari of the British, in sendingawaj

berof negroes, has. upon my principles, long sine- annihili

Treaty, and left us at perfecl liberty todeserl the stipulati

on our part.

This admits of an easy and Bolid answer. The breach oi
article annuls the whole, if the side injured by it chooses to I
advantage of it to dissolve the Treaty:* but if its intei
tates a differenl conduct, it may waive the breach, and
obligation of the Treaty continue. The power of determi

* v.u.i, page r.o, $48.

312 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr.VJ.

•whether the Treaty has been broken, properly belongs to that
body who made it. Congress have wisely taken a different
course ; and, instead of reviving the state of hostility by declar-
ing the Treaty void, have proceeded upon the presumption of
its continuing in force ; and, by subsequent acts, have given it
additional validity and strength. The definitive Treaty has been
since concluded, and proclaimed with a remarkable solemnity
and energy for the observance of the citizens of the United
States.

The third mode mentioned, by which the inhabitants of the
Southern district may have lost their rights of citizenship, is,
their having been left out of the compact by some subsequent
association of the body of the State. The fact, however, is di-
rectly the reverse : for, not only the Constitution makes provi-
sion for the representation of the people of the Southern district
in the Legislature, but, during the whole war, by an ordinance
of the Convention who framed the Constitution, an actual repre-
sentation has been kept up in a manner, the regularity of which
(whatever might have been the expedience of it) was more than
questionable, as all elections were suspended in that part of the
State. This circumstance of a constant representation of the in-
habitants of the Southern district in the Legislature, during: the war,
is, in a rational as well as a legal light, a conclusive refutation of
the pretended alienism of those inhabitants by any events of the
war, or by any other matter that applies to them in a collective
view antecedent to the Treaty of Peace. To this it may be added
that a variety of the laws of the State, in the course of the war,
suppose and treat the inhabitants of the Southern district as sub-
jects owing allegiance to the State, and, consequently, having the
rights which subjects in general enjoy under the government.*

The argument is still stronger when we attend to what has
been done by the government since the restoration of its jurisdic-
tion in the Southern district. We did not wait till a bill of natu-
ralization was passed, to remove the disabilities of the inhabitants
before we proceeded to elections. We did not confine those

* Vide Position 5th.

,Et. 27.] PHOCION
elections to such persons only aa had resided without the British
lines, l.Mt left thfin open to all descriptions ofpersonswho would

(.| se to take the oath prescribed Pot thai purpose by t!

Council. Few, indeed, in this city, besides those who had been
absent, did in fact vote al the elections; bu1 i isiderable num-
ber did in the counties. An.l if we should admil the doctrine of
the genera] alienism of the inhabitants of the Southern district,
either before, or in consequence of the Treatyof Peace,a curious
question, no1 easy to be solved, would arise, as to the validity
of the election of many individuals now holding Beats in Senate
and Assembly. So far as an act of government can decide
the point in controversy, it is already decided. The Coun-
cil for the temporary government of the Southern district, in
appointing the mode of election ; the conduct of the Legislature
since, in admitting the members elected in that mode, are un-
constitutional; or the inhabitants at large of the Southern dis-
trict, either by the Treaty, or any antecedent circumstance, are

not aliens.

I have dwelt the more largely on this head, not only he-
cause the idea of a general alienism of the inhabitants of the
Southern district is the ground Mentor has taken : hut because
some persons, who have it in their power to make a mischiev-
, ous use of it, are endeavoring to give it circulation, where, if
it could prevail, it mighl lead to pernicious consequences;
Pressed by the difficulty of discriminating those who may have
forfeited the rights of citizenship from those who have not, with-
out a manifest violation, as well of the Constitution as of the
Treaty of Peace, they are willing, if possible, to devise some gen-
eral expedient to evade both; and the one they have hit upon,
is, to declare all those aliens who have lived within the British
lines during the war, on the miserable pretence that they are
made such by the Treaty.

Thus we have another example how easy it is for men to
change their principles with their situations ; to be zealous advo-
cates for the rights of the citizens when they are invaded by
others; and, as soon as they have it in their power,
the invaders themselves ; to resist the encroachments od pofwea>

314 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 27.

when it is in the hands of others ; and, the moment they get
it into their own, to make bolder strides than those they have
resisted. Are such men to be sanctified with the hallowed
name of patriots ? Are they not rather to be branded as men
who make their passions, prejudices, and interests, the sole mea-
sure of their own and others' rights ?

The history of mankind is too full of these melancholy in-
stances of human contradiction.

Having mentioned the oath directed to be prescribed to elec-
tors in the Southern district, by the Council for the temporary
government, I shall take occasion, in this place, with freedom
but with respect, to examine the propriety of that measure.

This measure was founded upon an act of the Legislature
of this State, passed in the year , declaring, that persons

who had been guilty of certain matters particularized in that
act, should be for ever after disqualified from voting at all public
elections. I confine myself, for the sake of brevity, to the gene-
ral idea of the act. The embarrassment with the Council, no
doubt was, how to ascertain the persons who had incurred the dis-
ability. As the matters to which that disability related were of a
specific nature, it was necessary they should be specifically
ascertained before the law could have its effect.

The Council, therefore, could not satisfy that law by declar-
ing all those disqualified who had resided within the British
lines during the war. They would not leave the operation of
it to a course of judicial investigation and decision, because this
would be to fly in the face of the Treaty ; and appearances were
to be preserved. This consideration was strengthened by ano-
ther. The course of the law must have been dilatory. The elec-
tions were to be entered upon. It was deemed inexpedient that
the voice of the citizens at large (which must have been the
case if the act of the Legislature in question had been left to
its natural course) should govern these elections. If the re-
turning citizens were not at this juncture gratified, tumults
were by some apprehended.

This was a plausible step, and on that account the more
dangerous. If we examine it with an unprejudiced eye, we must

JEr. 27.]

I'lloriON. 315

acknowledge, not only that it was an evasion of the Treaty, but
a subversioD of oik- greal principle of social security; to •
thai every man shall be presumed innocent until he is •
guilty. This was to invert the order of things ; and, instead
obliging the State to prove the guilt in ordeT to inflict the pen-
alty, it was to oblige the citizen to establish his own innocence
toavoid the penalty. It was to excite scruples in the hoi
and conscientious, and to hold out a bribe to perjury.

That this was an evasion of the Treaty, the fourth pro]
tion already laid down will illustrate. It was a mode of inquiry,
who had committed any of those crimes to which the pen
of disqualification was annexed; with this aggravation, that it.
rived the citizen of the benefit of that advantage which he
would have enjoyed, by leaving, as in all other cases, the bur-
then of the proof upon the prosecutor.

To place this matter in a still clearer light, let it be supposed,
that instead of the mode of indictmenl and trial by jury, the Le-
gislature was to declare, that every citizen who did not swear he
had never adhered to the King of Ghreal Britain, should incur all
the penalties which our treason laws prescribe. Would this not
be a palpable evasion of the Treaty, and a duvet infringement of
the Constitution? Theprinciple is thesame in both cases; with
onlv this difference in the consequences, that, in the ii
already acted upon, the citizen forfeits a part ofhis rights; in the
pposed, he would forfeit the whole. The degree of punish-
ment is all that distinguishes th< -. tn either, justly con-
sidered, it is substituting a new and arbitrary mode of prosecu-
i to that ancient and highly ned one, recognized by the
laws and the Constitution of the State; 1 mean the trial by jury.
^ ,,., qoI •. that the Constitution declares, that trial by
jnrv. in all cases in which it has been formerly used, should re-
main inviolate for ever ; and that the Legislature should, a1
time, erect anj new jurisdiction which should not proceed
cording to the course of the common law. Nothingcan be i
repugnant to the true genius of the common law, than sue
inquisition as has been mentioned into the consciences of men.

A .-hare m the sovereignty of the State, which IS

316 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 27.

by the citizens at large, in voting at elections, is one of the most
important rights of the subject, and, in a Republic, ought to
stand foremost in the estimation of the law. It is that right by
which we exist a free people ; and it certainly, therefore, will
never be admitted, that less ceremony ought to be used in divest-
ing any citizen of that right than in depriving him of his pro-
perty. Such a doctrine would ill suit the principles of the
Revolution, which taught the inhabitants of this country to risk
their lives and fortunes in asserting their liberty ; or, in other
words, their rigid to a share in the government. That portion of
the sovereignty to which each individual is entitled, can never
be too highly prized. It is that for which we have fought and
bled : and we should cautiously guard against any precedents,
however they may be immediately directed against those we
hate, which may, in their consequences, render our title to this
great privilege precarious. Here we may find the criterion to
distinguish the genuine from the pretended whig. The man that
would attack that right, in whatever shape, is an enemy to whig-
ism.

If any oath, with retrospect to past conduct, were to be made
the condition on which individuals who have resided within the
British lines should hold their estates, we should immediately
see that this proceeding would be tyrannical, and a violation of
the Treaty ; and yet, when the same mode is employed to divest
that right, which ought to be deemed still more sacred, many of
us are so infatuated as to overlook the mischief.

To say that the persons who will be affected by it, have pre-
viously forfeited that right, and that therefore nothing is taken
away from them, is a begging of the question. How do we
know who are the persons in this situation ? If it be answered,
This is the mode taken to ascertain it ; the objection returns,
'Tis an improper mode, because it puts the most essential inter-
ests of the citizen upon a worse footing than we should be wil-
ling to tolerate where inferior interests were concerned ; and
because, to elude the Treaty, it substitutes to the established and
legal mode of investigating crimes, and inflicting forfeitures, one
that is unknown to the Constitution and repugnant 4to the genius
of our law.

jEt. 27.]

P Hoc | on. 317

Much stress has been laid upon a couple of unmeaning words
m ii,,. :,,t, to enforce the penalties of which, the oath was in-
vented. It is declared, thai the persons who have done the
several things enumerated in the act, shall be ipso facto disquali-
fied. These words of potenl sound, bul of little substance, b
been supposed to include wonderful effects. Lei if we can

give them anydefinite meaning. II" a man commits murder, by
the very act, ipso facto, he incursthe penalty of death; bul be-
fore he can be hanged, we musl inquire whether be baa certainly
committed the act. [fa man has done any of those thii
which are declared Bufficienl to disqualify bim from voting,
though by the very act, ipso facto, he incurs the penalty of tin-
law, yet, before he can be actually disqualified, we musl inquire
whether he has really done the act. From this we perceive the
words ipso facto are mere expletives, which add nothing to the
force or efficacy of the law.

It has been said, too, that an oath to determine the qualifica-
tions of electors, is a usual precaution in free governments; but
we may challenge those who make the assertion, to show that
retrospective oaths have ever been ao^ninistered, requiri]
tors to swear that they luivt- not Urn guilty ofpasl offences. In
all tin- violence of party which has, a1 differenl periods, agitated
Great Britain, nothing of this kind has ever been adopted; but
even where religious fanaticism has given an edge to political
opposition, and in an undecided contesl foT the crown, they have
never gone further than to prescribe oaths foi testing present
dispositions towards the government, on general principles, with-
out retrospection to particular instances of past mal-conduct
The practical notions of Legal liberty established in that country
by a series of time, would make such an experiment too odious
to be attempted by the government Wise men have thought,
that even there, they have carried the business of oaths to an
exceptionable length: but we who pretend a purerzeal for lib-
erty, in a decided contest, after a fori, ml renunciation of claims
by the adverse party, are for carrying the matter to a .-till more
blamable extreme.

Men, whose judgments and intentions I respect, were the pro-

318 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 21.

moters of the measure which has occasioned this digression:
some from the contagion of popular opinion ; others from the
too strong impressions of momentary expedience ; and a third
class from the insensible bias of some favorite pursuit.

As to the fourth method in which the inhabitants of the
Southern district may have lost their rights of citizenship, a dis-
memberment by Treaty, I have naturally been drawn, under the
third head, into a discussion of this ; and I trust have shown, to
the full satisfaction of all candid men, that there is not a shadow
of foundation to suppose that such a dismemberment is in the
contemplation of the Treaty. A few short remarks shall con-
clude what I intend to say on this article.

It is a case without precedent, that a nation, in surrendering
its acquisitions in war, to the State from which those acquisitions
were made, should stipulate for the inhabitants of the country
given up as for its own subjects. To do it, would be both use-
less and absurd : useless, because the country being surrendered,
no reasonable advantage could be derived from retaining the al-
legiance of its inhabitants ; absurd, because the district of terri-
tory surrendered, being given up as a part of the State to which
the surrender is made, it would be contradictory, by the same
act, to acknowledge the right of that State to the part given
up, and yet to hold up a claim to the allegiance of its inhabit-
ants.

The surrender (for the question does not relate to original
cessions) carries in itself a decisive implication, that the inhabit-
ants of the country surrendered, are the subjects of the power to
which the surrender is made ; and the presumption in this case
is so strong, that nothing but the most positive and unequivocal
exceptions in the Treaty would be sufficient to defeat it. La-
bored constructions to give the Treaty that complexion are inad-
missible; for if there were room to doubt, the doubt, in just
reasoning, should be interpreted against the position, that the in-
habitants of the country surrendered were the subjects of the
power by which the surrender was made.

The only additional remark I shall make on this head is
this : Though we are under great obligations to our ministers

JBv.*L] I'll or i o\. 819

for the substance of the Treaty, which comprehends all the
Bential interests of this country ; we musl acknowledge thai the
language of it is, in many respects, defective and obscure. 'I
true rule in this case is, do1 i" have recourse to artificial and far-
fetched interpretation, bul to admil such meanings as the simple
and popular import of the words conveya WTien, therefore, it
is said, in the sixth article, " thai there shall be no future pr
cutions commenced, aor confiscations made, nor damage dom
person, liberty, or property, of anj person or persons, on account
of the pari taken by them in the war;" as the natural and obvi-
ous scope of the words presents a full amnesty and indemnity
for the future, we should qoI torture our imaginations to pervert
them to a differenl sense.

It has been urged, in support of the doctrines under consider-
ation, that every government has a righl to take precautions for
its own security, and to prescribe the terms on which it- rights
shall be enjoyed.

All this is true when undersl 1 with propeT limitations;

but, when rightly understood, will no1 be found to justify the
conclusions which have been drawn from the premisi

In the first formation of a government, the society may
multiply its precautions as much, and annex as many conditions
to the enjoyment of its rights, as it shall judge expedient; but
when it has once adopted a Constitution, that Constitution 1
be the measure of its discretion, in providing for its own safety,
and in prescribing the conditions upon which its privileges are
to be enjoyed. If the Constitution declares, that persons
ing certain qualifications shall be entitled to certain rights, while
that Constitution remains in force, the government, which is the
mere creature of the Constitution, can divesl no citizen, who
has the requisite qualifications, of his corresponding rights. It
may indeed enact laws, and annex to the breach oi' them the

penalty of forfeiture; bu1 before that penalty can operate, the
existence of the feci upon which it is to take place, musl be

ascertained in that mode which the Constitution and funda-
mental laws have provided, [f trial by jury is the mod( known
and established by that Constitution and those laws, the persons

320 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 27.

who administer the government, in deviating from that course,
will be guilty of usurpation. If the Constitution declares, that
the legislative power of the State shall be vested in one set of
men and the judiciary power in another; and those who are
appointed to act in a legislative capacity, undertake the office
of judges : if, instead of confining themselves to passing laws,
with proper sanctions to enforce their observance, they go out of
their province to decide who are the violators of those laws,
they subvert the Constitution and erect a tyranny. If the Con-
stitution were even silent on particular points, those who are
intrusted with its power, would be bound, in exercising their
discretion, to consult and pursue its spirit, and to conform to the
dictates of reason and equity : if, instead of this, they should
undertake to declare whole classes of citizens disfranchised and
excluded from the common rights of the society, without hear-
ing, trial, examination, or proof; if, instead of waiting to take
away the rights of citizenship from individuals till the State has
convicted them of crimes by which they are to lose them, before
the ordinary and regular tribunal, they institute an inquisition
into men's consciences, and oblige them to give up their privi-
leges, or undertake to interpret the law at the hazard of perjury;
they expose themselves to the imputation of injustice and op-
pression.

The right of a government to prescribe the conditions on
which its privileges shall be enjoyed, is bounded, with respect to
those who are already included in the compact, by its original
conditions : in admitting strangers it may add new ones ; but it
cannot, without a breach of the social compact, deprive those
who have been once admitted, of their rights, unless for some
declared cause of forfeiture, authenticated with the solemnities
required by the subsisting compact.

The rights, too, of a republican government are to be modi-
fied and regulated by the principles of such a government.
These principles dictate, that no man shall lose his rights without
a hearing and conviction before the proper tribunal ; that, previ-
ous to his disfranchisement, he shall have the full benefit of the
laws to make his defence ; and that his innocence shall be pre-

At. 27.]

IMMM'ION. 3*21

Bomed till his guilt ha.s been proved. These, with many other
maxims, never to be forgotten in any bul tyrannical govern-
ments, oppose the aims of those who quarrel with the princip
of Pliocion.

( iases, indeed, of extreme necessity, arc exceptions to all gen-
eral rules; but these only exist when it is manifest the Bafetj of
the community is in imminenl danger. Speculations of possible
danger uever can be justifying causes of departures from princi-
ples on which, in the ordinary course of things, all private secu-
rity depends; from principles which constitute the essential
distinction between tree and arbitrary governments.

When the advocates for legislative discriminations are driven
from one subterfuge to another, their last resting-place is, that
this is a new case, the case of a Revolution. Your principles are
all right, say they, in the ordinary course of society; but they
do not apply to a situation like ours. This is opening a wilder-
ness, through all the labyrinths of which it is impossible to pur-
sue them. The answer to this must be, that there are principles
eternally true, and which apply to all situations, such as those
that have been already enumerated ; that we are not now in the
midst of a Revolution, but have happily brought it to a succ
ful issue ; that we have a Constitution formed as a rule of con-
duct; that the frame of our government is determined, and the
general principles of it settled; that we have taken our stal
among nations ; have claimed the benefit of the laws which regu-
late them, and must, in our turn, be bound by the same hi
that those eternal principles of social justice forbid the inflicting
punishment upon citizens by an abridgment of rights, or in any
other manner, without conviction of some specific offence by
regular trial and condemnation; that the Constitution we have
formed, makes the trial by jury the only proper mode of ascer-
taining the delinquencies of individuals; that legislative dis-
criminations to supersede the necessity of inquiry and proof;
would be a usurpation on the judiciary powers of the govern-
ment, and a renunciation of all the maxims of civil liberty : that,
by the laws of nations and the rules of justice, we are bound to
observe the engagements entered into on our behalf, by that
b 21

322 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 27.

power which is invested with the constitutional prerogative of
treaty ; and that the Treaty we have made, in its genuine sense,
ties up the hands of government, from any species of future pro-
secution or punishment, on account of the part taken by indi-
viduals in the war.

Among the extravagancies with which these prolific times
abound, we hear it often said, that the Constitution, being the
creature of the people, their sense with respect to any measure,
if it even stand in opposition to the Constitution, will sanctify
and make it right.

Happily for us in this country, the position is not to be con-
troverted, that the Constitution is the creature of the people ;
but it does not follow that they are not bound by it, while they
suffer it to continue in force ; nor does it follow that the Legisla-
ture, which is, on the other hand, a creature of the Constitution,
can depart from it, on any presumption of the contrary sense of
the people.

The Constitution is the compact made between the society at
large and each individual. The society, therefore, cannot, with-
out breach of faith and injustice, refuse to any individual a sin-
gle advantage which he derives under that compact, no more
than one man can refuse to perform his agreement with another.
If the community have good reasons for abrogating the old com-
pact and establishing a new one, it undoubtedly has a right to
do it ; but until the compact is dissolved with the same solemnity
and certainty with which it was made, the society, as well as
individuals, are bound by it.

All the authority of the Legislature is delegated to them un-
der the Constitution ; their rights and powers are there defined :
if they exceed them, it is a treasonable usurpation upon the
power and majesty of the people : and by the same rule that
they may take away from a single individual the rights he claims
under the Constitution, they may erect themselves into perpetual
dictators. The sense of the people, if urged in justification of
the measure, must be considered as a mere pretext ; for that
sense cannot appear to them in a form so explicit and authorita-
tive as the Constitution under which they act ; and if it could

jEt. 87.] P HOC | ON. B28

appear with equal authenticity, it could only bind when it had
been preceded by a declared change in the Gram i m-

ment,

The contrary doctrine Berves to undermine all tho» • by
which individuals can know their duties and their rights, and to
convert the government into a government of will, not of la

There is only one light, on Mentor's plan, in which this sub-
ject remains to be considered; the danger to the government
from suffering persons to reside among as who have an avei
to our Constitution; either by thru- becoming auxiliaries to fu-
ture attempts of the British nation to recover their lost authority,
or by their contributing to corrupt the principles and change the
lorm of our government.

M 5 observations on this subject in my former letter, I belii
remain unshaken by what Mentor has opposed to them. I shall,
however, add a few others.

The restoration of British authority in this country is too
chimerical to be believed even by Mentor himself; though he
makes some faint essays to induce the supposition.

Why did Great Britain make peace with America? Because
the necessity of her affairs compelled her to it. In what did this
necessity consist ? In every species of embarrassment and dis-
order that a nation could experience. Urn- public debt had al-
most arrived at that point, when the expenses of a peace estab-
lishment were nearly equal to all the revenues they were able to
extract from exhausting the sources of taxation. Had they

ried on the war till they had exc Led this point, a bankru]

would have been the inevitable consequence. We perceive, as it
is, the great difficulties that are acknowledged by every sue

sion of ministers, in devising means to retrieve the allairs oi' the

nation.

The distractions of the government, arising from those em-
barrassments, are scarcely paralleled in any period of B
historv. Almost every sitting of Parliament is a signal of a
change of ministry. The King at variance with his minist
the ministers unsupported by Parliament; the Lords disagreeing
with the Commons ; the nation execrating the King, Mini.-'

324 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 27.

Lords and Commons : all these are symptoms of a vital malady
in the present state of the nation.

Externally the scene is not brighter. The affairs of the East
India settlements are in the most perplexing confusion ; and
Ireland seems to be ready to dismember itself from the British
empire.

It may be said that these are temporary mischiefs, which may
be succeeded by greater tranquillity, prosperity, and power. The
future situation of Great Britain is a problem which the wisest
man cannot solve. In all appearance, it will be a considerable
time before she can recover from the pressure of the evils under
which she now labors, to be in a condition to form enterprises
against others. When that period may arrive, our strength and
resources will have greatly increased ; the habits of men attached
to her will have worn out : and it is visionary to suppose that
she will then entertain a disposition to renew her attempts upon
a country, increased in strength and resources, exerting its forces
under an established Constitution, fortified by foreign alliances,
which her acknowledged independence will at all times command ;
when she reflects that that country, in the tumult of a Bevolu-
tion, and in a state of comparative impotence, baffled all her ef-
forts in the zenith of her power.

To an enlightened mind it will be sufficient to say, upon this
subject, that, independent of our own means of repelling enter-
prises against us, Europe has been taught, by this Eevolution, to
estimate the danger to itself of a union of the two countries un-
der the same government, in too striking a manner ever to per-
mit the reunion, or tolerate the attempts of Great Britain towards
it.

The danger, from a corruption of the principles of our gov-
ernment, is more plausible but not more solid. It is an axiom,
that governments form manners, as well as manners form govern-
ments. The body of the people of this State are too firmly
attached to the democracy, to permit the principles of a small
number to give a different tone to that spirit. The present law
of inheritance, making an equal division among the children of
the parents' property, will soon melt down those great estates,

JEt. 27.] PIIOCION. 828

which, if thej continued, might favor the power of the A"'. 'I
number of the disaffected, who are so from speculative notions of
ir< >\ < rrniit-nt, is small. The great majority of those wrho took
pari against us, did it from accident, from tin- dread of the
British power, and from the influence of others to whom they
had been accustomed to look up. Most of the men who had that
kind of influence an1 alivady gone: the residue and their ad-
herents, must be carried along by the torrent, and, with very few
exceptions, if the government is mild and just, will soon come
to view it with approbation and attachment.

Either the number of malcontents in the State is small or it
is considerable. If small, there is no room for apprehen-
sion : if great, then opposition to the government is only
to be overcome by making it their interest to be its friends,
or by extirpating them from the community. A middle
line, which will betray a spirit of persecution in the govern-
ment, but will only extend its operation to a small num-
ber, will answer no other purpose than to disable a ivw, and in-
flame and rivet the prejudices of the rest, by exhibiting the tem-
per of government in a harsh and unconciliating light. We
shall then, in truth, have a considerable faction in the State
ready for all innovations.

The impracticability of such a general extirpation, suggi -
the opposite conduct as the only proper one.

There is a bigotry in polities as well as in religions, equally
pernicious in both. The zealots, of either description, are igno-
rant of the advantage of a spirit of toleration. It was a long
time before the kingdoms of Europe were convinced of the folly
of persecution with respect to those who were schismatics from
the established church. The cry was. These men will be equally
the disturbers of the Hierarehy and of the State. While some
kingdoms were impoverishing and depopulating themselves by
their severities to the non-conformists, their wiser neighl
were reaping the fruits of their folly, and augmenting their own
numbers, industry, and wealth, by receiving, with open arms, the
persecuted fugitives. Time and experience have taught a differ-
ent lesson: and there is not an enlightened nation which does

326 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 27.

not now acknowledge the force of this truth, that whatever
speculative notions of religion may be entertained, men will not,
on that account, be enemies to a government that affords them
protection and security. The same spirit of toleration in poli-
tics, and for the same reasons, has made great progress among
mankind, of which the history of most modern revolutions is a
proof. Unhappily for this State, there are some among us who
possess too much influence ; that have motives of personal am-
bition and interest to shut their minds against the entrance of
that moderation which the real welfare of the community
teaches.

Our neighbors seem to be in a disposition to benefit by our
mistakes ; and the time will not be very remote, if the schemes
of some men can prevail, when we shall be ashamed of our own
blindness, and heap infamy upon its promoters.

It is remarkable, though not extraordinary, that those char-
acters, throughout the States, who have been principally instru-
mental in the Eevolution, are the most opposed to persecuting
measures. Were it proper, I might trace the truth of this re-
mark from that character which has been the first, in conspicu-
ousness, through the several gradations of those, with very few
exceptions, who, either in the civil or military line, have borne
a distinguished part. On the other hand, I might point out men
who were reluctantly dragged into taking a part in the Eevolu-
tion ; others who were furious zealots in the commencement of
the dispute, that were not heard of to any public purpose, during
the progress of it ; and others who were fluctuating, according to
the tide of good or ill-fortune; all of whom now join in the cry
with a third class, more imprudent, but much more respectable,
and endeavor, by the loudness of their clamors, to atone for their
past delinquencies.

As to Mentor's commercial reveries, I shall decline bestowing
many remarks upon them ; not only because they are not immedi-
ately connected with the general subject, but because there is
little danger of their making any proselytes, while men are con-
vinced that the prosperity of the national commerce depends as
much upon the extent of its capital as that of an individual ;

Mr. 27.]

PHOCION. 327

that to confine trade to any particular description of men, in ex-
clusion of others who have better means of carrying it on, would
be, it' practicable, to make the people at large tributary to the
avarice of a small number who were to have the benefil of tin'
monopoly; that, in the present situation of things, a very -mall
proportion of those intended to be benefited, who have the
means to avail themselves of the advantage, would reap all its
fruits, even at the expense, and to the prejudice, of the gra
part of those who were meant to be favored; that the fewer
hands trade is confined to, the less will be its activity, and the
less the degree of employment afforded to other classes of the
community; and, in short, that all monopolies, exclusions, and
discriminations, in matters of traffic, are pernicious and absurd.

Since writing the foregoing, I have learned that a bill is
depending before the House of Assembly, for putting various
descriptions of persons out of the protection of government. I
have too much respect for the wisdom and virtue of that body,
to suppose a measure of this nature can obtain the sanction of
the majority. What is the plain language of the proposal?
There are certain persons who are obnoxious to public resent-
ment The Treaty forbids us to proceed against them in a legal
way. Let us, therefore, by an unconstitutional exertion of po
evade the Treaty, however dangerous the precedent to the lib-
erty of the subject, and however derogatory to the honor of the
nation. By the Treaty we stipulate, that no person or persons
shall sitffer, on account of the part they may have taken in the war,
any damage to person, liberty, or properly; and yet, by taking
away the protection of government, which they would enjoy
under the subsisting laws, we leave them to suffer whatever in-
jury to either, the rashness of individuals who are the subja
the State, may think proper to inflict What would this be, but
to imitate the conduct of a certain General, who, having pro-
mised that he would not spill the blood of some prisoners who
were about to surrender by capitulation, after he had them in
his power had them all strangled to death? Words, in every
contract, are to be construed so as to give them a reasonable

328 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.21.

effect. When it is stipulated that a man shall not suffer in per-
son, liberty, or property, it does not merely mean, that the State
will not inflict any positive punishment upon him, but also that
it will afford him protection and security from injury. The very
letter, as well as the spirit, of the stipulation, imports this. He
shall not suffer any damage, are the words of the Treaty.

The scheme of putting men out of the protection of the law,
is calculated to transfer the sceptre from the hands of government
to those of individuals ; it is to arm one part of the commu-
nity against another ; it is to enact a civil war. If, unhappilv for
the State, this plan could succeed, no man can foresee the end of
it. But the guardians of the rights of the community will cer-
tainly, on mature deliberation, reject it.

Feeling for the honor of the State, if expulsions must take
place, if the Constitution and the faith of the United States must
be sacrificed to a supposed political expedience, I had much
rather see an open avowal of the principles upon which we
acted, than that we should clothe the design with a veil of arti-
fice and disguise, too thin not to be penetrated by the most or-
dinary eye.

I shall now, with a few general reflections, conclude.

Those who are at present intrusted with power, in all these
infant Eepublics, hold the most sacred deposit that ever was
confided to human hands. 'Tis with governments as with
individuals; first impressions and early habits give a lasting
bias to the temper and character. Our governments, hitherto,
have no habits. How important to the happiness, not of Ame-
rica alone, but of mankind, that they should acquire good ones!

If we set out with justice, moderation, liberality, and a scru-
pulous regard to the Constitution, the government will acquire a
spirit and tone productive of permanent blessings to the commu-
nity. If, on the contrary, the public councils are guided by
humor, passion, and prejudice ; if from resentment to individu-
als, or a dread of partial inconveniences, the Constitution is
slighted, or explained away, upon every frivolous pretext, the
future spirit of government will be feeble, distracted, and arbi-
trary. The rights of the subject will be the sport of every party

JEt. 27. J PHOCION. 329

vicissitude. There will be no settled rule of conduct, l»ut every
thing will fluctuate with the alternate prevalent of contending

factions.

Tin- world has its eye upon America. The Qoble Straggle
we have made in the cause of liberty, has occasioned a kind ..t'
revolution in human sentiment. The influence of oar example
has penetrated the gloomy regions of despotism, and has pointed
the way to inquiries which may shake it to its deepest founda-
tions. Men begin to ask, every where, Who is this tyrant that
dares to build his greatness on our misery and degradati<
What commission has he to sacrifice millions to the wanton
appetites of himself and a lew minions that, surround his throne?

To ripen inquiry into action, it remains for us to justify the
Eevolution by its fruits.

If the consequences prove that Ave really have asserted the
cause of human happiness, what may not be expected from so
illustrious an example? In a greater or less degree, the world
will bless and imitate.

But if experience, in this instance, verifies the lesson !
taught by the enemies of liberty, that the bulk of mankind
not fit to govern themselves; that they must have a master, and
were only made for the rein and the spur ; we shall then see the
final triumph of despotism over liberty: the advocates of the
latter must acknowledge it to be an ignis Jaknts, and abandon the
pursuit. With the greatest advantages for promoting it that
ever a people had, we shall have betrayed the cause of human
nature.

Let those in whose hands it is placed, pause far a moment,
and contemplate, with an eye of reverence, the vast trust com-
mitted to them. Let them retire into their own bosoms and
amine the motives which there prevail. Lei them ask themsel
this solemn question: Is the Bacrifice of a few mistaken 01 cri-
minal individuals an object worthy of the shifts to which we

reduced, to evade the Constitution and the national engagemei
Then let them review the arguments that have been offered with
dispassionate candor; and if they even doubl the propriety of
the measures they may be about to adopt, let them remem
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 21.

that, in a doubtful case, the Constitution ought never to be ha-
zarded without extreme necessity.

Phocion.

CONSTITUTION OF THE BANK OP NEW-YOKK.

t *?% L . Tholthe Eank Sha11 be Called b? tne name and title
of the Bank of New- York.

Art 2. That the capital stock consist of five hundred thou-
sand dollars m gold or silver, divided into one thousand shares
of five hundred dollars each share ; and that a majority of all the
directors may, at their discretion, open new subscriptions for in-
creasing the capital stock, when they shall judge it for the inter-
est of the Bank so to do, provided the said new subscriptions do
not exceed the sum of five hundred thousand dollars
_ Art. 3. That thirteen directors be annually chosen by a ma-

Z f t I°te5 W,h0 ^ t0 W the Sole conduct a»d manage-
ment 0f ^ Bank At the firgt general dectio the S

and cashier are to be elected by the subscribers to the Bank, but
for ever afterwards the thirteen directors are to choose a presi-
dent from among themselves; and the cashier, as well as every
other person employed in the Bank, is to be appointed and paid
by them, and be under their immediate control.

17«f Tt'^\ T^1 the firSt el6Cti0n be 0n the 15th daJ of March,
1/84; that the next general election for thirteen directors shall
be on the second Monday in May, 1785 ; and so continue yearly,
and e^y year, but m case of any vacancy in the direction by
death^ resignation, or otherwise, public notice shall be give.

fined r r? ^ SUCh an eVent' that the vacancJ *4 be

Art, Ti C !°n t0 be ^ Ween da^s after -<* notice.

ber Z f i iiT"7 h°lder °f °ne °r more shares> to <*" num-
ber of four shall have one vote for each share. A subscriber of

u shares shall have five votes ; eight shares, six votes ; and ten

hares, seven votes; and one vote for every five shares above

jEt. 27.] BANK OF NKW-YORK. 331

Art. 6. That no stockholder, after the first election, shall be
entitled to rote, unless Bnch person has possessed the Btock three
months previous to the day fixed for an election of directors, or
any other general purpose. And if any stockholder (who shall
haVe been a resident in this State at least twelve months imi
diately preceding such election) should be absent, he shall
entitled to vote by proxy, properly appointed; but in no other
case shall any vote be admitted by proxy.

Art 7. That no person shall be eligible to serve in the office
of director unless he be a stockholder.

Art 8. That the board of directors determine the manner of
doing business, and the rules and forms to be pursued ; appoint
and employ the various clerks and servants, which they may find
necessary, and dispose of the money and credit of the Bank for
the interest and benefit of the proprietors ; but they are not
to employ the money or credit of the Bank in the drawing or
negotiating of any foreign bill, or bills of exchange, or advance a
loan to any foreign power whatever.

Art, 9. That if at any time it shall be the opinion of a majority
of the directors that any of their body are guilty of neglect of
duty, or any mal-practice, whereby the interest of the Bank is
or may be affected, such majority of the directors, with or with-
out the consent of the president, may advertise for a general
meeting of the stockholders, to lay before them a complaint of
such neglect of duty, or breach of trust ; and if it appears to the
stockholders to be well founded, such director or directors may
be removed by a majority of votes.

Art. 10. That if any of the directors shall convert any of the
money or property of the Bank to his own particular use, or be
guilty of fraud or embezzlement, he shall forfeit his whole share
of stock to the company and be expelled the direction by a
majority of all the directors, and thereby rendered incapable of
ever serving again in that office.

Art. 11. That no president or director shall receive any other
emolument for his attendance on the duties of the office than
such as shall be fixed and agreed to by a majority of votes at a
general election.

332 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 27.

Art. 12. That there shall be a meeting of the directors quar-
terly, for the purpose of regulating the affairs of the Bank, and
not ]ess than seven shall constitute a board, who may adjourn from
time to time, and the president if necessary may call a meeting
of the directors at any intermediate time ; at every meeting of the
directors all questions are to be decided by a majority of votes.

Art. 13. That the president or a majority of the directors shall
have power to call a general meeting of the stockholders by an
advertisement in the public papers, whenever it appears to them
there is urgent occasion.

Art. 14. That the cashier and every principal clerk do give a
security for their trust to such an amount, as a majority of all
the directors shall require.

Art. 15. That all notes issued by the Bank shall be signed by
the president for the time being, or any director who may be
fixed upon by the board for that purpose, and countersigned by
the cashier, or in his absence by a clerk to be appointed by the
directors.

Art. 16. That no stockholder shall be accountable to any in-
dividual or the public for money lodged in the Bank for a greater
sum than the amount of his stock.

Art. 17. That such a dividend on the profits of the Bank as a
majority of all the directors shall determine to make, shall be
declared at least fourteen days previous to the general election in
May 1785 ; and that all subsequent dividends shall be made half
yearly.

Art. 18. That all shares shall be transferable, such transfer to
be made by the proprietor or proprietors, or his, her, or their
lawful attorney, in books kept at the Bank for that purpose, which
books shall be always kept open at the usual office hours, except
on particular days previous to the declaring a dividend of which
due notice shall be given.

Art. 19. That the president and directors shall petition the
Legislature to incorporate the subscribers or stockholders under
the name and title of the president, directors and company of
the Bank of New- York, and to pass laws for inflicting the most
exemplary punishment on those who may commit fraud or

jEt. 29.] REVENUE SYSTEM. 333

embezzlement; and also to punish the counterfeiters of Bank
notes ami checks in the like exemplary manner, with such other
clauses in the act as they shall judge accessary and proper for
the security of the stockholders and the public.

Art. 20. That this constitution shall be fairly transcribed upon
parchment and remain at the Bank; the president and directors
when chosen, and prior to the opening of the Bank, shall sever-
ally sign and seal the same, and take an oath or affirmation before
a magistrate, thai he will to the hest of his knowledge and
abilities conduct the business of the Bank for the interest and
benefit of the proprietors and agreeable to the true intent and
meaning of this constitution, which oath or affirmation shall also
be taken by every future director when chosen, and before he
enters upon the execution of his trust.

PETITION AS TO REVENUE SYSTEM.

New-York, 1786.

To th> Honorable the Legislahure of the State of New- York : —

The Petition of the Subscribers, Inhabitants of the City of
New-York, respectfully showeth,

That your petitioners, anxious for the welfare of the com-
munity of which they are members, have seen with peculiar
regret the delay which has hitherto attended the adoption of the
Revenue System recommended by Congress in the resolutions of
the eighteenth of April, 1783.

That the anxiety which your petitioners have all along felt
from motives of a more general nature is, at the present juncture,
increased by this particular consideration, that the State of New-
York now stands almost alone in a non-compliance with a mea-
sure, in which the sentiments and wishes of the Union at large
appear to unite, and by a further delay may render itself respon-
sible for consequences too serious not to affect every considerate
man.

334 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 29.

That in the opinion of your memorialists, all the considera-
tions important to a State, all the motives of public honor, faith,
reputation, interest, and safety, conspire to urge a compliance
with these resolutions.

That government without revenue cannot subsist. That the
mode provided in the Confederation for supplying the Treasury
of the United States has, on experiment, been found inade-
quate.

That the system proposed will, in all probability, prove much
more efficacious, and is, in other respects, as unexceptionable as
the various circumstances and interests of these States will
permit.

That any objection to it as a measure not warranted by the
Confederation, is refuted by the thirteenth article, which pro-
vides that alterations may be made, if agreed to by Congress and
confirmed by the Legislature of each State ; and the conduct of
this State itself in adopting the proposed change of the Eighth
Article, is a precedent in which we find the principle reduced to
practice, and affords a complete answer to every pretence of the
Revenue System being unconstitutional.

That as to danger in vesting the United States with these
funds, your memorialists consider their interests and liberties as
not less safe in the hands of their fellow-citizens delegated to
represent them for one year in Congress, than in the hands of
their fellow-citizens delegated to represent them for one year or
four years in the Senate and Assembly of this State.

That government implies trust ; and every government must
be trusted so far as is necessary to enable it to attain the ends for
which it is instituted ; without which insult and oppression from
abroad, confusion and convulsion at home.

^Et. 29.] CINCINNATI. 335

CINCINNATI.

New- York, July f,, 178O.

The Committee to whom was referred the proceedings of
the society of the Cincinnati, at their last general meeting, beg
leave to report, that they have attentively considered the 'alter-
ations proposed at that meeting to be made in the original con-
stitution of the society ; and though they highly approve the
motives which dictated those alterations, they are of opinion it
would be inexpedient to adopt them, and this chiefly on the
two following accounts.

" First,— Because the institution, as proposed to be altered,
would contain in itself no certain provision for the continuance
of the society beyond the lives of the present members ; this
point being left to the regulation of charters, which may never
be obtained, and which, in the opinion of this Committee, so far
as affects this object, ought never to be granted, since the dangers
apprehended from the institution could then only cease to be
vmaginan/i when it should receive the sanction of a legal establish-
ment. The utmost the society ought to wish or ask from the
several legislatures is, to enable it to appoint trustees to hold its
property, for the charitable purposes to which it is destined.
Second,— Because, by a fundamental article, it obliges the soci-
ety of each State to lend its funds to the State ; a provision
which would be improper, for two reasons; one, that in many
cases the society might be able to dispose of its funds to much
greater advantage ; the other, that the State might not always
choose to borrow from the society.

" That while the Committee entertain this opinion with re-
spect to the proposed alterations, they are at the same time
equally of opinion, that some alterations in the original constitu-
tion will be proper, as well in deference to the sense of many of
our fellow-citizens, as in conformity to the true spirit of the insti-
tution itself. The alterations they have in view respect princi-

336 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 29.

pally the duration or succession of the society, and the distinc-
tion between honorary and regular members. As to the first, the
provision intended to be made appears to them to be expressed
in terms not sufficiently explicit ; and as far as it may intend an
hereditary succession by right of primogeniture, is liable to this
objection — that it refers to birth what ought to belong to merit only:
a principle inconsistent with the genius of a society founded on
friendship and patriotism. As to the second, the distinction
holds up an odious difference between men who have served
their country in one way, and those who have served it in an-
other, and improper in a society where the character of patriot
ought to be an equal title to all its members.

The Committee, however, decline proposing any specific sub-
stitute for the parts of the original constitution, which appear
to them exceptionable ; as they are of opinion, any alterations
necessary to be made, can only be digested in a general meet-
ing of the society, specially authorized to agree upon, and finally
establish, those alterations. With a view to this, they beg leave
to recommend that a circular letter be written from the society,
to the different State societies, suggesting the expediency of in-
structing, and empowering their delegates, at the next general
meeting, to concur in such alterations as may appear to that
meeting proper, after a full communication of what shall be
found to be the sense of the several societies.

ADDKESS OP THE ANNAPOLIS CONVENTION.

1786.

"To the Honorable the Legislatures of Virginia, Delaware,
Pennsylvania, and New- York.
" The commissioners from the said States respectively, assem-
bled at Annapolis, humbly beg leave to report, That pursuant
to then- several appointments, they met at Annapolis, in the
State of Maryland, on the eleventh day of September, instant,

JEt. 29.] ANNA 1M) I. is CONVENTION. •'*--".7

and having proceeded to a communication of their powers, they
found thai the States of New-York, Pennsylvania, and Vir-
ginia, had in substance, and aearly in the same terms, authorized
their respective commissioners to meel such commissioners
were or mighl be appointed by the other States in the Union,
at such time and place as Bhould be agreed upon by the said
commissioners, to take into consideration the trade and corn-
mere,' of the United States, to consider how far a uniform
system in their commerciaJ intercourse and regulations might be
necessary to their common interesl and permanent harmony
and to report to the several States such an act relative to this

at object, as, when unanimously ratified by them, would en-
able the United States in Congress assembled effectually to pro-
vide for thf same.

' That the State of Delaware had given similar powers to
their commissioners; with this difference only, that the act to
be framed in virtue of these powers, is required to be reported
'to the United States in Congress assembled, to be agreed to
by them, and confirmed by the Legislature of every State.'

■■ That the. State of New Jersey had enlarged the object of
their appointment, empowering their commissioners 'to con-
sider how far a uniform system in their commercial regula-
tions, and other important matters, might be necessary to the
common interesl and permanenl harmony of the several States;
and to report such an act on the subject, as, when ratified by
them, would enable the United States in Congress assembled
effectually to provide for the exigencies of the Union.'

'That appointments of commissioners have also been made
by tli,' States of NTew Eampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
and North Carolina, none of whom, however, have attended.
lint that no information has been received by your commission-
ers of any appointmenl having been made by the States of Con-
necticut, Maryland, South Carolina, or Georgia That the ex-
press terms of the powers to your commissioners supposing a
deputation from all the States, and having for their object the
trade and commerce of the United States, your commissioneM
did not conceive it advisable to proceed to the business of their

b 22

338 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 29.

mission under the circumstances of so partial and defective a
representation.

" Deeply impressed, however, with the magnitude and im-
portance of the object confided to them on this occasion, your
commissioners cannot forbear to indulge an expression of their
earnest and unanimous wish that speedy measures may be taken
to effect a general meeting of the States in a future Convention
for the same, and such other purposes, as the situation of public
affairs may be found to require.

"If in expressing this wish, or intimating any further senti-
ment, your commissioners should seem to exceed the strict
bounds of their appointment, they entertain a full confidence
that a conduct dictated by an anxiety for the welfare of the
United States will not fail to receive a favorable construction.
In this persuasion, your commissioners submit an opinion that
the idea of extending the powers of their deputies to other sub-
jects than those of commerce, which had been adopted by the
State of New Jersey, was an improvement on the original plan, and
will deserve to be incorporated into that of a future Convention.
They are the more naturally led to this conclusion, as, in the
course of their reflections on the subject, they have been in-
duced to think that the power of regulating trade is of such com-
prehensive extent, and will enter so far into the general system
of the Federal Government, that to give it efficacy, and to obvi-
ate questions and doubts concerning its precise nature and limits,
may require a correspondent adjustment of other parts of the
Federal system. That there are important defects in the system
of the Federal Government, is acknowledged by the Acts of all
those States which have concurred in the present meeting ; that
the defects, upon a closer examination, may be found greater and
more numerous than even these acts imply, is at least so far
probable, from the embarrassments which characterize the pre-
sent state of our national affairs foreign and domestic, as may
reasonably be supposed to merit a deliberate and candid discus-
sion in some mode which will unite the sentiments and councils
of all the States.

" In the choice of the mode, your commissioners are of the

Mr. 29.] ANNAPOLIS CONVENTION. 339

opinion that a convention of deputies from die different States
for the special and sole purpose of entering into this investiga-
tion, and digesting a plan of supplying such defects as may be
discovered to exist, will be entitled to a preference, from con-
siderations which will occur without being particularized. Your
commissioners decline an enn ration of those Dational circum-
stances on which their opinion respecting the propriety of a
future Convention with those enlarged powers is founded, as it
would be an intrusion of facts and observations, most of which
have been frequently the subject of public discussion, and none
of which can have escaped the penetration of those to whom they
would in this instance be addressed.

"They are, however, of a nature so serious, as, in the view
of your commissioners, to render the situation of the United
States delicate and critical, calling for an exertion of the united
virtue and wisdom of all the members of the Confederacy. Un-
der this impression your commissioners, with the most respect-
ful deference, beg leave to suggest their unanimous conviction,
that it may effectually tend to advance the interests of the
Union, if the States by which they have been respectively dele-
■ 1 would concur themselves, and use their endeavors to pro-

e the concurrence of the other States, in the appointment of
commissioners to meet at Philadelphia on the the second Monday
in May next, to take into consideration the situation of the
United States, to devise such further provisions as shall appear
to them necessary to render the Constitution of the Federal
Government adequate to iht exigencies of the Union^ and to report
such an act for that purpose to the United States in Congress

mbled, as, when agreed to by them and afterwards confirmed
by the Legislature of every State, will effectually provide for the
same.

"Though your commissioners could not with propriety ad-
dress these observations and sentiments to any but the St;
they have the honor to represent, they have nevertheless con-
cluded, from motives of respect, to transmit copies of this report
to the United States in Congress assembled, and to the Execu-
tives of the other States.

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

LEGISLATUEE OF NEW-YOEK.

RESOLUTIONS.

February 17, 1787.
Resolved, if the Hon. the Senate concur, that the Delegates of
this State in the Congress of the United States of America be
and they are hereby, instructed to move in Congress for an Act
recommending to the States composing the Union, that a Con-
vention of Eepresentatives from the said States respectively, be
held and meet at a time and place, to be mentioned in such
recommendation, for the purpose of revising the articles of Con-
federation and Perpetual Union between the United States of
America, by such alterations and amendments as a majority of
the Eepresentatives in such Convention shall judge proper and
necessary to render them adequate to the preservation and sup-
port of the Union.

February 26, 1787.
Resolved, (if the Honorable the Senate concur herein,) that
five Delegates be appointed on the part of this State to meet such
Delegates as may be appointed on the part of the other States
respectively, on the second Monday of May next, at Philadel-
phia, for the sole and express purpose of revising the Articles of
Confederation, and reporting to Congress and to the several Legis-
latures, such alterations and provisions therein as shall, when
agreed to in Congress, and confirmed by the several States, render
the Federal Constitution adequate to the exigencies of Govern-
ment, and the preservation of the Union; and that, in case
of such concurrence, the two Houses of the Legislature will meet
on Thursday next, at such place as the Honorable the Senate
shall think proper, for the purpose of electing the said delegates
by joint ballot.

M-r. 30.] NEW-YORK LEGISLATURE. :>!1

An Act In institute mi rxiVKitsrrv in'thin this State, and /brother
/imposes therein mentioned. Passed 13th April, 1787.

Whereas, by two Acts of the Legislature of the State of New-
York, the one passed the first day of May, and the other the
twenty-sixth day of November, one thousand seven hundred and
eighty-four, an University is instituted within this State, in the
manner, and with the powers, therein specified. And whereas,
from the representation of the regents of the said University, it
appears that there are defects in the constitution of the said Uni-
\ -i i-sit v which call for alterations and amendments. And whereas,
a nni nber of Acts on the same subject, amending, correcting, and
altering former ones, tend to render the same less intelligible and
easy to be understood : wherefore, to the end that the constitution
of the said University may be properly amended, and appear
entire in one law, it will be expedient to delineate and establish
the same in this, and repeal all former Acts relative thereto.

I. Be it enacted by the people of the State of New- York, represent-
ed in Senate and Assembly, and it is hereby enacted by the authority
of the .same, That an University be and is hereby instituted within
this State, to be called and known by the name or style of, The
Regents of the University of the State of New- York. That the
said ngents shall always be twenty-one in number, of which the
Governor and Lieutenant-Governor of the State, for the time
being, shall always, in virtue of their offices, be two. That the
Governor and Lieutenant-Governor, and John Rogers, Egbert
Benson, I'hilip Schuyler, Ezra L'lloinmeilicu, Nathan ('air, Pe-
ter Sylvester, John Jay, Dirck Romeyn, .lames Livingston,
Ebenezer Russel, Lewis Morris, Matthew Olarkson, Benjamin
Moore, Kilardus Westerlo, Andrew King, William Lynn, Jona-
than GL Tompkins, John M'Donald, and Frederick William de
Steuben, shall be, and hereby are, appointed the present regents;
and that they and all future regents shall continue in p
during the pleasure of the Legislature. That all vacancies in the

ency which may happen by death, or removal, or resignation,
shall, from time to time, be supplied by the Legislature, in the

342 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 30.

manner in which Delegates to Congress are appointed. That the
said regents, as soon as may be after the passing of this Act,
shall convene at such time and place as the Governor shall ap-
point, and by plurality of voices, by ballot, choose a chancellor
and vice-chancellor, to continue in office during the pleasure of
the said regents. That the said chancellor, or, in his absence
from the said meeting, the vice-chancellor, or, in case both be
absent, then the senior regent present (and whose seniority shall
be decided by the order in which the regents are named or ap-
pointed) shall preside ; and, in case of division, have a casting-
voice at all meetings of the said regents. That all the meetings
of the said regents, after the first, shall be held at such time and
place as the chancellor, or in case of his death, absence from the
State, or resignation, the vice-chancellor, or, in case of the death,
absence from the State, or resignation of both of them, then, at
such time and place as the senior regent present in the State
shall appoint.

And it shall be the duty of the chancellor, vice-chan-
cellor, or senior regent, as the case, in virtue of the above
contingencies, may be, to order and call a meeting of the said
regents, whenever and as often as three regents shall, in writing,
apply for and request the same ; such order or call to be pub-
lished in one or more of the public newspapers in the city of
New- York, at least ten days prior to such meeting.

And further, that any eight of the said regents, meeting at
the time and place so ordered, shall be a quorum, and be en
abled to transact and do the business which, by this act, they
shall be authorized or directed to do and transact. That the
said University shall be, and hereby is, incorporated, and shall
be known by the name of The Eegents of the University of the
State of New- York, and by that name shall have perpetual suc-
cession, and power to sue and be sued, to hold property, real and
personal, to the amount of the annual income of forty thousand
bushels of wheat ; to buy and to sell, and otherwise lawfully
dispose of lands and chattels ; to make and use a common seal,
and to alter the same at pleasure.

II. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the

;Et. 30.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. 343

said corporation Shall appoint, by ballot, a treasurer and a secre-
tary, to continue in office during the pleasure of the corporation.
Thai the treasurer shall keep fair and true accounts of all moneys
l>v him received and paid ou1 ; and thai the secretary shall keep
a fair journal of the meetings and proceedings of the corporation,
in which the yeas and nays on all questions shall be entered, if
required, by any one of the regents present. And to all the

1 ks and papers of the corporation, every regent shall always

have access, and he permitted to take copies of them.

III. And beit further enacted by the authority aforesaid. That
it shall and may !"• law ful to and for the said regents, and they
aiv hereby authorized and required, to visit and inspect all the
colleges, academies, and schools, which are or may be established
in this State ; examine into the state and system of education
and discipline therein, and make a yearly report thereof to the
Legislature; and also to visit every college in this State once
a year, by themselves or by their committees, and yearly to re-
port the state of the same to the Legislature; and to make such
by-laws and ordinances, not inconsistent with the constitution
and laws of the State, as they may judge most expedient for the
accomplishment of the trust hereby reposed in them.

And in case the trustees of the said colleges, or any of them,
shall Leave the office of president of the college, or the trustees of
any academy shall leave the office or place of principal of the
academy vacant, for the space of one year, it shall, in all such
cases, 1»' lawful for the regents, unless a reasonable cause shall
be assigned for such delay, to their satisfaction, to till up such
vacancies; and the persons by them appointed shall continue in

:e during the pleasure of the regents, and shall respectively
be received by the college or academy to which they may be ap-
pointed, and shall have all the powers, and exactly the same
salary, emoluments, and privileges, as his next immediate prede-

3or in olhce enjoyed, it' any predecessor he had; if not, then
such salary as the regents shall direct, to be paid by the tins:
who shall, out of the funds or estate of their college or academy,
be compellable, by the said president or principal, to pay the
same.

344 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

IV. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the
said regents shall have the right of conferring, by diplomas, un-
der their common seal, on any person or persons whom they
may think worthy thereof, all such degree or degrees, above or
beyond those of bachelor or master of arts, as are known to, and
usually granted by, any university or college in Europe.

V. And be it farther enacted, by the authority aforesaid, That it
shall and may be lawful to and for the said regents, from time to
time, to apply such part of their estate and funds, in such man-
ner as they may think most conducive to the promotion of litera-
ture, and the advancement of useful knowledge within this State.
Provided always, that where grants shall be made to them, for
certain uses and purposes therein expressed and declared, the
same shall not be applied, either in the whole or in part, to any
other uses.

VI. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the
regents shall anually meet on the second Thursday next after the
Senate and Assembly, at the annual session of the Legislature,
shall have formed a quorum respectively, and at the assembly
chamber, immediately after the Assembly shall have adjourned.
That the said regents, at such meetings, and all others, may
adjourn from time to time, not exceeding ten days at any one time.

VII. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid,
That any citizen or citizens, or bodies corporate, within this State,
being minded to found a college at any place within the same,
he or they shall, in writing, make known to the regents, the
place where, the plan on which, and the funds with which it is
intended to found and provide for the same, and who are pro-
posed for the first trustees ; and in case the regents shall approve
thereof, then they shall declare their approbation, by an instru-
ment under their common seal, and allow a convenient time for
completing the same. And if at the expiration of the said time,
it shall appear to the satisfaction of the regents, that the said
plan and propositions are fully executed, then they shall, by act
under their common seal, declare, that the said college, to be
named as the founders shall signify, and with such trustees, not
exceeding twenty-four, nor less than ten, as they shall name,

jEt. 30.] NEW-YORE LEGISLATURE. 345

s 1 1 : 1 1 1 forthwith become incorporated, and Bhal] have perpetual
succession, and enjoy all the corporate rights and privileges en-
joyed by < Jolumbia College, hereinafter mentioned.

VIII. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, Thai
tlic charter heretofore granted to the governors of the college of
the province <>!' New-York, in tin- city of New- York, in America,
dated the thirty-first day of October, in the year of our Lord one
thousand seven hundred and fifty-four, shall be, and hereby is
fully and absolutely ratified and confirmed, in all respects, except
tli.it the college thereby established, shall be henceforth called
Columbia College : That the style of the said corporation shall
be, 'The trustees of Columbia College, in the city of New- York;
and that no persons shall be trustees of the same, in virtue of
any offices, characters, or descriptions whatever ; excepting also
such clauses thereof as require the taking of oaths, and subscrib-
ing the declaration therein mentioned; and which render a per-
son ineligible to the office of president of the college, on account
of his religions tenets, ;md prescribe a form of public prayer to
be used in the said college ; and also excepting the clause thereof
which provides, thai the by-laws and ordinances to be made in
pursuance thereof, should not be repugnant to the laws and stat-
utes of that part of the kingdom of Great Britain, called Eng-
land: except also, that in all cases where fifteen governors are
required to constitute a quorum for the dispatch of business,
thirteen trustees shall be sufficient. Provided, always, that the
by-laws and ordinances to be mad'' by the trustees of the said
Columbia College, shall not be contrary to the constitution and
laws of this State.

IN. An'/ be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid\
That James Duane, Samuel Provost, .lolm 11. Livingston. Rich-
ard Varick, Alexander Eamilton, John Mason, .lames Wilson,
John Gano, Brockholsl Livingston, Robert Barper, John Daniel
Gross, Johann Christoff ELunze, Walter Livingston, Lewis A.
Scott, Joseph Delaplaine, Leonard Ldspenard, Abraham Beach,
John Lawrence, John Rutherford, Morgan Lewis, .John Cochran,
Gershom Seixas, Charles McKnight, Thomas .lone-, Malachi
Treat, Samuel Bard, Nicholas Romeyn, Benjamin Ki.-s.im, and

346 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 30.

Ebenezer Crosby, shall be and they are hereby constituted and
declared to be the present trustees of Columbia College, in the
city of New- York, and that when by the death or resignation or
removal of any of the said trustees, the number of those trus-
tees shall be reduced to twenty-four, then and from thenceforth
the said twenty-four trustees shall be, and they hereby are de-
clared and constituted trustees of the said Columbia College, in
perpetual succession, according to the true intent and meaning of
the said charter ; and all vacancies thereafter shall be supplied
in the manner thereby directed.

X. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That all
and singular the power, authority, rights, privileges, franchises,
and immunities, so heretofore granted to, and vested in the said
governors of the college of the province of New- York, in the
city of New- York, in America, by the said charter, excepting as
before excepted, shall be, and the same hereby are granted to and
vested in the trustees of Columbia College, in the city of New-
York, and their successors for ever, as fully and effectually, to all
intents and purposes, as if the same were herein particularly
specified and expressed ; and all and singular the lands, tene-
ments, hereditaments, and real estate, goods, chattels, rents, annui-
ties, moneys, books, and other property, whereof the said governors
of the college of the province of New-York, in the city of New-
York, in America, were seized, possessed, or entitled, under and
in virtue of the said charter, or with which the regents of the
said university were invested, under or by virtue of the said acts
for the use or benefit of the said Columbia College, shall be and
the same hereby are granted to and vested in the said trustees of
Columbia College in the city of New- York, and their successors
for ever for the sole use and benefit of the said college ; and it
shall and may be lawful to and for the said trustees, and their
successors to grant, bargain, sell, demise, improve, and dispose
of the same as to them shall seem meet. Provided, always,
That the lands given and granted to the governors of the col-
lege of the province of New- York, in the city of New- York, in
America, by the corporation heretofore styled, The rector and
inhabitants of the city of New- York, in communion of the Church

iET. 30.]

NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. "-17

of England, as by law established, on part whereof the said col-
lege i- erected, shall nol be granted for any greater estate, or
in any other manner, than is limited by the said charter.

XI. Aw/ be if further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That

when any special meeting of the trustees of the Baid college,

shall he deemed necessary, it shall and may he lawful to and for
the senior trustee of the said college, then in the city of New-
York, and taking upon himself the exercise of the office (which
seniority shall be determined according to the order in which the
said trustees are named in this act. and shall be elected hereafter),
and be is hereby authorized and required, on application for that
purpose in writing, under the hands of any five or more of the
said trustees, to appoint a time for such special meeting, in some
convenient place within the said city, and to cause due notice
thereof to be given in the manner directed by the said charter.

XII. And whereas academies for the instruction of youth in
the languages, and other branches of useful learning, have been
erected and instituted in different parts of this State, by the free
and liberal benefactions of corporations, as well as individuals ;
and the regents of the university having represented that the
appointment and incorporation of trustees for each of the said
academies, with competent powers to manage the funds already
appropriated, and the donations which may be made to such

demies, and to superintend the morals and education of the
scholars, and the conduct of the principal, masters and teachers,
would greatly conduce to their security and prosperity ;

Therefore be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
upon the application of the founders and benefactors of any
academy now or hereafter to be erected or established within any
of the cities or counties of this State, or as many of them as shall
have contributed more than one half in value of the real and
persona] property and estate, collected or appropriated for the
use and benefit thereof, by an instrument in writing under
their hands and seals, to the regents of the university, expressing
their request, thai such academy should be incorporated, and be
subject to the visitation of the regents nominating in such instru-
ment the trustees, not more than twenty-four or less than twelve,

348 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

for such academy, and specifying the name by which the said
trustees shall be called and distinguished ; and whenever any
such request shall be made to the said regents, they shall in
every such case (if they conceive such academy calculated for
the promotion of literature), by an instrument under their com-
mon seal, signify their approbation of the incorporation of the
trustees of such academy named by the founders thereof, by the
name mentioned in and by their said request in writing, which
said request in writing, and instrument of approbation by the said
regents, shall be recorded in the secretary's office of the State.

XIII. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
the trustees so constituted shall be the first trustees for the
academy for which they shall be appointed, and immediately after
recording the said request in writing, and instrument of appro-
bation, shall be legally invested with all the real and personal
estate appertaining to such academy, or in any wise given or
granted for the use thereof; and the said trustees from the time
of their appointment as aforesaid, and their successors for ever
thereafter, shall be a, body corporate and politic, in deed, fact
and name, known and distinguished by the name and style
to be expressed in the said instrument, and by that name shall
have perpetual succession, and be capable in the law to sue and
be sued, and defend and be defended, in all courts, and in all
causes, plaints, controversies, matters and things whatsoever ; and
by the same name and style, they and their successors shall law-
fully hold, use and enjoy the lands, tenements, and hereditaments,
in any wise appertaining to the academy for which they shall be
constituted trustees, and shall and may lawfully have, take,
acquire, purchase and enjoy lands, tenements and hereditaments,
and use and improve such goods and chattels, in such manner as
they shall judge to be most beneficial for such academy : Pro-
vided, That the annual revenue or income, arising from the real
and personal estate of any such academy, shall not exceed the
value of four thousand bushels of wheat ; any law, usage or
custom to the contrary notwithstanding.

XIV. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
it shall and may be lawful to and for such trustees, and their

Mr. 30.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. •"> 40

successors for ever, to have ami use a commoD seal, and the same
i- alter, break, and make anew, at their pleasure. And as often
as any three or more of the said trustees shall think lit, and sig-
nify their request, the senior trustee actua 1 ly exercising his office
and residing within three miles of such academy, shall call a
meeting of the said trustees at such convenient time and place as
he shall appoint, not less than eight nor more than twelve days
from the time of such request, of which previous notice in
writing shall be affixed on the door of the academy, and of the
church aearesl thereto, within two days after such appointment;
and at every such meeting the senior trustee shall preside, such
seniority in all cases to he determined according to the order of
their nomination in the said instrument, or according to the
priority of election after all the first trustees shall become extinct,
and the major part of such trustees shall always be a suilicient
quorum to proceed on business, and shall have full power and
authority to adjourn from time to time, not exceeding seven
day- at any one time, as the duties of their trust may require.
And it shall and may be lawful to and for such quorum of the
said trustees, when assembled and met in manner aforesaid, or
the major part of them, from time to time to appoint a treasurer
and clerk, principal, masters, tutors, teachers, and other necessary
officers, to ascertain their respective salaries, and to remove and
displace any of them at their pleasure, and to make by-laws for
the admission, education, government, ami discipline of the
scholars and students, and the establishment of the price or
terms of tuition; for securing, revising, and paying ou1 and dis-
posing of the revenues, and in general for conducting and man-
aging the estate, business, and affairs of the said academv, and

DO ' »/ '

every matter and thing relating thereto in such manner as they
shall judge to be most conducive to its interesl and prosperity,
and the end of their trust.

X V. And in order to preserve the succession of trustees for
the said academies respectively, />'■ it further enacted by the
auth" riti/ aforesaid, That whenever a vacancy shall happen in any
corporation of trustees, by the death, resignation, or refusal to
act of any trustee, it shall and may be lawful to and for the

350 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 30.

trustees of such academy, and they are hereby authorized and
required, at any legal meeting of the trustees, to elect and choose
a fit person to fill up and supply such vacancy.

XVI. And for the greater encouragement of such academies,
and to render them more useful and respectable, Be it further
enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the regents of the univer-
sity shall be visitors of such academies, and the chancellor, vice-
chancellor, or a committee of the regents shall, as often as they
see proper, visit such academies, to inquire into the state and
progress of literature therein.

XVII. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
when any scholar who shall be educated at any of the said
academies, on clue examination by the president and professors
of Columbia College, or any other college subject to the visita-
tion of the said regents, shall be found competent in the judg-
ment of the said president and professors, to enter into the sopho-
more, junior, or senior classes of such colleges respectively, such
scholar shall be entitled to an admission into such of the said
classes for which he shall be so adjudged competent, and shall
be admitted accordingly, at any one of the quarterly examina-
tions of such respective classes.

XVIII. Provided always and be it further enacted by the authori-
ty aforesaid, That to entitle the scholars of any such academies
to the privileges aforesaid, the trustees thereof shall lay before
the regents of the said university, from time to time, the plan or
system proposed to be adopted for the education of the students
in each of the said academies respectively, in order that the same
may be revised and examined by the said regents, and by them
be altered or amended, or approved and confirmed, as they shall
judge proper.

XIX. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
whenever it shall appear to the said regents, that the state of lit-
erature in any academy is so far advanced, and the funds will
admit thereof, that it may be expedient that a president be ap-
pointed for such academy, the said regents shall in such case sig-
nify their approbation thereof, under their common seal, which
being entered of record as aforesaid, shall authorize the trustees

En. 80.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. 35 1

of sucli academy to elect ;i president, who shall Inve, hold, and

enjoy .-ill the powers thai the president of any college recognized
by this acl shall or may lawfully have, hold, and enjoy; and
such academy thereafter, instead of* being called an academy,
shall be called and known by the Bame name it was called while
it was an academy, excepl thai the word college shall be used in
all eases instead of the word academy, and be subject to the I
rales and regulations, control and visitation of the regents, as
other colleges mentioned in this act.

XX. Andh it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
no president or professor shall be ineligible for or by reason of
any religious tenet or tenets that he may or shall profess; or be
compelled by any law or otherwise, to take any test oath what-
soever; and no professor or tutor of any college or academy
recognized by this act, shall be a trustee of any such college or
academy, nor shall any president of any college or principal of
any academy, who shall be a trustee, have a vote in any case re-
lating to his own salary or emoluments ; nor shall any trustee,
president, principal, tutor, fellow, or other officer of any college
or academy, be a regenl of the university.

XXI. And be it jurther < nacted by th authority aforesaid, That
whenever any person, now or hereafter appointed a trustee of
any college or academy, shall be appointed or elected a regent of
the university, and whenever any person, being a regent of the
university, shall be appointed or elected a trustee of any college
or academy, such person so appointed or elected, shall, on due
notice thereof, decide and elect in which of the said places he will
serve, and, by writing, under his hand, shall make known such
election, whether of refusal or acceptance, to those by whom he
was elected, to the end that such appointment may take effect, in

case he accept it, or that they proceed to a new appointment in
ca-e he refuse it.

XXII. And be it Jurther enacted by the authority af
That the aet entitled, An act for granting certain privileges to
the college heretofore called King's College, for altering the
name and charter thereof, and erecting au university within this

te, passed the first day of May, 1784; and the act entitled,

352 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

An act to amend an act entitled, An act for granting certain pri-
vileges to the college heretofore called King's College, for alter-
ing the name and charter thereof, and erecting an university
within this State, passed the 26th day of November 1784, be, and
they are hereby severally repealed.

SPEECH ON THE EEVENUE SYSTEM.

There appears to me to have been some confusion in the
manner of voting on the two preceding clauses of this bill ; the
first, for granting the impost to the United States, having been
carried by a majority of one, and the last, for making the officers
employed in the collection accountable to them, having been lost
by a much larger majority. I was induced to hope, from the
success of the first question, that the second would have met
with equal success ; as I presume gentlemen who meant to ad-
here to the act of the last session, would have opposed the whole
of the present bill as unnecessary ; and those who meant to de-
part from it, would be willing to agree substantially to the sys-
tem recommended by Congress, as it had been adopted and
modified by the other States generally. From the complexion
of the votes on the last question, I am obliged to conclude, either
that I was mistaken in my ideas of the intention of the commit-
tee, or that there is some misapprehension, in part, of the mem-
bers.

It becomes, therefore, necessary — to obviate such misappre-
hension, if any exists, and to discharge my duty at all events —
to lay the subject fully before the committee, and to detail, at
large, my reasons for wishing to see the bill, in its present form,
prevail.

It is a common practice, in entering upon the discussion of
an important subject, to endeavor to conciliate the good will of
the audience to the speaker, by professions of disinterestedness
and zeal for the public good. The example, however frequent,
I shall no further imitate than by making one or two general

jEt. 30.] N i:\V-YORK I, K QISLATURB. 353

observations. If, in the public stations I have filled, I have ac-
quitted myself with zeal, fidelity and disinterestedness; if. in the
private walk of life, my conducl lias been unstained by any dis-
honorable art, if it lias been uniformly consistent with the rules
of integrity, I have ;i right to the confidence of those to whom I.
address myself : they cannol refuserl to me without injustice, I
am persuaded they will not refuse it to me. If, on the other
hand, my public conduct has been in any instance marked with
perfidy, duplicity, or with sinister views of any land; if any im-
putations, founded in fact, can be adduced to the prejudice of my
private character, 1 have no claim to the confidence of the com-
mittee; nor should I expect it.

Iv.en these observations I should have spared myself, did I
not know that, in the rage of party, gross calumnies have been
propagated. Some I have traced and detected : there may still
be others in secret circulation, with which I am unacquainted.
Against the influence of such arts I can have no other shield
than the general tenor of my past conduct. If that will protect
me, 1 may safely confide in the candor of the committee. To
that standard I cheerfully submit.

But, indeed, of what importance is it who is the speaker? 'tis
his reasons only that concern the committee; if these are good
they owe it to themselves and to their constitution to allow them
their full weight.

The first objection (and that which is supposed to have the
greatest force) against the principles of the bill, is, that it would
be unconstitutional to delegate Legislative power to Congress. If
this objection be founded in truth there is at once an end of the
inquiry. God forbid that we should violate that Constitution
which is the charter of our rights. But it is our duty to examine
dispassionately whether it really stands in our way. If it does
not, let us not erect an ideal barrier to a measure which the pub-
lie good may require.

The first ground of the objection is deduced from that clause
of the Constitution which declares " that no power shall be exer-
cised over the people of this State but such as is granted by or
derived from them."
b 23

354 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

This, it is plain, amounts to nothing more than a declaration
of that fundamental maxim of republican government, " that all
power, mediately or immediately, is derived from the consent of
the people," in opposition to those doctrines of despotism which
uphold the divine right of kings, or lay the foundations of gov-
ernment in force, conquest, or necessity. It does not at all affect
the question how far the legislature may go in granting power
to the United States. A power conferred by the representatives
of the people, if warranted by the Constitution under which they
act, is a power derived from the people. This is not only a plain
inference of reason, but the terms of the clause itself, seem to
have been calculated to let in the principle. The words, "de-
rived from," are added to the words " granted by," as if with
design to distinguish an indirect derivation of power from an
immediate grant of it. This explanation is even necessary to
reconcile the Constitution to itself, and to give effect to all its
parts, as I hope fully to demonstrate in its proper place.

The next clause of the Constitution relied upon, is that which
declares that " the supreme legislative power within this State
shall be vested in a Senate and Assembly." This, it is said,
excludes the idea of any other legislative power operating within
the State. But the more obvious construction of this clause, and
that which best consists with the situation and views of the
country at this time, with what has been done before and since
the formation of our Constitution, and with those parts of the
Constitution itself which acknowledge the Federal Government, is
this — " In the distribution of the different parts of the sovereignty
in the particular government of this State, the legislative authority
shall reside in a Senate and Assembly," or in other words, "the
legislative authority of the particular government of the State of
New-York shall be vested in a Senate and Assembly." The framers
of the Constitution could have had nothing more in view than to
delineate the different departments of power in our own State
government, and never could have intended to interfere with the
formation of such a Constitution for the Union as the safety of
the whole might require. The justness of this construction will
be further elucidated by that part of the Constitution which pre-

JEt. 30.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. 855

scribes, that, " the supreme executive authority of the Stat -lull
be vested in a governor." II' the former elaut dudes the
granl of legislative power, this must equally exclude the grant of
tin- executive power, and the consequence would be that there
could lie UM Federal Gtovernmenl ;it all.

It will lie of no avail i<> say, that there is ;i difference in the
two cases in tin' mode of expression ; that, in one, the terms of
description are "within the State," in the other, " of the State."
[n grammar, or good sense, the difference in the phrases con-
stitutes no substantia] difference in the meaning, or if it does, it
concludes againsl the objection; for the words, within this Stated
which are applied to the legislative power, have a certain pre-
cision thai may be supposed to intend a distinction between that
legislative power which is to operate within this State only, and
thai which is to operate upon this State in conjunction with
the others. But I lay no stress on this observation. In my
opinion the legislative power "within this Stain, "or the legislative
power "of this State," amount in substance to the same thing,
and therefore (as has been already observed) if the Constitution
prohibits the delegation of legislative power to the Union, it
equally prohibits the delegation of executive power— and the

ifederacy must then beat an end; for without legislative or
executive power, it becomes a nullity.

Unfortunately for the objection, if it proves any thing it
proves too much. It proves thai the powers of the Union in
their presenl form are an usurpation on the Constitution of this
•. This will appear not only from the reasoning adduced,
but from this further consideration, — that the United States are
already possessed of legislativ* as well as executiv< authority. The
objects of executive power are of three kinds, to make treaties
with foreign nations, to make war and peace, to execute and
interpret the laws. This description of the executive power will
enable as the more readily to distinguish the legislative; wi
in general may be defined the power of prescribing rules for the
community.

The United States are authorized to require from the several
Stal much money as they judge necessary for the general

356 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

purposes of the Union, and to limit the time within which it is
to be raised : to call for such a number of troops as they deem
requisite for the common defence in time of war — to establish
rules in all cases of capture by sea or land — to regulate the alloy
and value of coin, the standard of weights and measures, and to
make all laws for the government of the army and navy of the
Union. All these are powers of the legislative kind, and are
declared by the Confederation to be binding upon all the States.

The first is nothing less than a power of taxing the States in
gross, though not in detail ; and the last is the power of dispos-
ing of the liberty and lives of the citizens of this State, when
in arms for the common defence. That the powers enumerated
are all, or most of them, of a legislative nature, will not be de-
nied by the law members on the other side of the question. If
the Constitution forbids the grant of legislative power to the
Union, all those authorities are illegal and unconstitutional, and
ought to be resumed.

If, on the contrary, those authorities were properly granted,
then it follows that the Constitution does not forbid the grant
of legislative power, and the objection falls to the ground ; for
there is nothing in the Constitution permitting the grant of one
kind of legislative authority, and forbidding that of another.
The degree or nature of the powers of legislation which it might
be proper to confer upon the Federal Government, would in this
case be a mere question of prudence and expediency, to be de-
termined by general considerations of utility and safety.

The principle of the objection under consideration would not
only subvert the foundation of the Union as now established —
would not only render it impossible that any Federal Govern-
ment could exist ; but would defeat some of the provisions of
the Constitution itself. This last idea deserves particular atten-
tion.

The nineteenth clause makes it the duty of the Governor " to
correspond with the Continental Congress." The twentieth pro-
vides "that the judges and chancellor shall hold no other office
than delegate to the General Congeess ;" and the thirtieth
directs " that delegates to represent this State in the General Con-

jEt. 30.] NEW -YORK LEGISLATURE. 357

gross of the Tinted States of America shall be annually ap-
pointed."

Now, sir, I ask, if Congress were to have neither executive
nor legislative authority, to what purpose wen; they to exist?
To what purpose were delegates to be annually appointed to that
body? To what purpose were these delegates to represenl this
State? Or how could they be said to represent it at all?

Is not the plain import of this part of the Constitution, that
they were to represent this State in the General Assembly of the
United States, for the purpose of managing the common con-
cerns of the Union ? And does not this necessarily imply that
they were to be clothed with such powers as should be found
essential to that object ? Docs it amount to a constitutional war-
rant to the Legislature to confer those powers, of whatever kind
they might be ?

To answer these questions in the negative, would be to charge
the Constitution with the absurdity of proposing to itself an end,
and yet prohibiting the means of accomplishing that end.

The words "to represent this State" are of great latitude,
and are of themselves sufficient to convey any power necessary
to the conduct and direction of its affairs in connection with the
other parts of the Confederacy.

In the interpretation of laws it is admitted to be a good rule
to resort to the coexisting circumstances, and collect from thence
the intention of the framers of the law. Let us apply this rule
to the present case.

In the commencement of the Revolution delegates were sent
to meet in Congress with large discretionary powers. In short,
generally speaking, with full power " to take care of the repub-
lic." In the whole of this transaction the idea of an Union of
the colonies was carefully held up. It pervaded all our pub-
lie acts.

In the Declaration of Independence we find it continued and
confirmed. That declaration, alter setting forth its motives and
causes, proceeds thus : " We, therefore, the representatives of the
United States of America in general Congress assembled, appeal-
ing to the Supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of our in-

358 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

tentions, do in the name and by the authority of the good people
of these colonies, solemnly publish and declare, that these United
Colonies are, and of right ought to be, free and independent
states ; that they are absolved from all allegiance to the British
Crown, and that all political connection between them and the
State of Great Britian is, and ought to be, totally dissolved ; and
that, as free and independent states, they have full power to levy
war, conclude peace, contract alliances, establish commerce, and
do all other acts and things that independent states may of
right do."

Hence we see that the Union and Independence of these
States are blended and incorporated in one and the same act ;
which, taken together, clearly imports that the United States had
in their origin full power to do all acts and things which independ-
ent states may of right do ; or, in other words, full power of
sovereignty.

Accordingly, we find that upon the authority of that act only
approved by the several States, they did levy war, contract alli-
ances, and exercise other high powers of sovereignty, even to
the appointment of a dictator, prior to the present confederation.

In this situation, and with this plenitude of power, our Con-
stitution knows and acknowledges the United States in Congress
assembled, and provides for the annual appointment of delegates
to represent this State in that body ; which, in substance, amounts
to a constitutional recognition of the Union, with complete sov-
ereignty.

A government may exist without any formal organization or
precise definition of its powers. However improper it might
have been, that the Federal Government should have continued
to exist with such absolute and undefined authority, this does
not militate against the position that it did possess such authority.
It only proves the propriety of a more regular formation to ascer-
tain its limits. This was the object of the present Confederation,
which is, in fact, an abridgment of the original sovereignty of
the Union.

It may be said, (for it has been said upon other occasions,)
that, though the Constitution did consider the United States in

;Et. 30.] \ I : XV - Y O R K LEG! S I. A T U R E . 359

the light T have described, and left the legislature at liberty in
the first instance to have organized the Federal Governmenl in
such ;i manner as they thought proper, yet thai liberty ceased
with the establishment of the present Confederacy. The discre-
tion of tin' Legislature was then determined.

This, upon the face of it, is a subtilty, uncountenanced by a
single principle of government, or a single expression of the Con-
stitution. It is saying that a general authority given to the
Legislature for the permanent preservation and good of the com-
munity, has been exhausted and spent by the exercise of a part
of that authority. The position is the more destitute of color,
because the Confederation, by the express terms of the compact,
preserves and continues tins power. The last clause of it autho-
rizes Congress to propose, and the States to agree to such altera-
tion.- as might be afterwards found necessary or expedient,

"We see, therefore, that the Constitution knows and acknow-
ledges the United States in Congress; that it provides for the
annual appointment of delegates to represent tin's State in that
body without prescribing the objects or limits of that representa-
tion; that at the time our Constitution was framed, the Union
existed with full sovereignty; and that therefore the idea of
sovereignty in the Union is not incompatible with it. We see,
further, that the doctrine contained in the objection againsl grant-
ing legislative power, would equally operate againsl granting
executive power, would prove that the powers already vested in
the Union are illegal and unconstitutional, would render a con-
fede racy of the States in any form impracticable, and would defeat
all those provisions of our own Constitution which relate to the
United States. I submit it to the committee, whether a doctrine
pregnant with such consequences can be true; whether it is not
as opposite to our Constitution as to the principles of national

ty and prosperity ; and whether it would not be lamentable
if the zeal of opposition to a particular measure should carry us
to the extreme of imposing upon the Constitution a Bense foreign
to it ; which must embarrass the national councils upon future
occasions, when all might agree in the utility and necessity of a
different construction.

360 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 30.

If the arguments I have used under this head are not -well-
founded, let gentlemen come forward and shoiv their fallacy. Let
the subject have a fair and full examination, and let truth, on
whatever side it may be, prevail !

Flattering myself it will appear to the committee that the
Constitution, at least, offers us no impediment, I shall proceed to
other topics of objection. The next that presents itself, is a
supposed danger to liberty from granting legislative power to
Congress.

But, before I enter upon this subject, to remove the asper-
sions thrown upon that body, I shall give a short history of some
material facts relating to the origin and progress of the business.
To excite the jealousies of the people, it has been industriously
represented as an undue attempt to acquire an increase of power.
It has been forgotten, or intentionally overlooked, that, consider-
ing it in the strongest light as a proposal to alter the Confedera-
tion, it is only exercising a power which the Confederation has
in direct terms reposed in Congress, who, as before observed,
are, by the 13th article, expressly authorized to propose al-
terations.

But so far was the measure from originating in improper
views of that body, that, if I am rightly informed, it did not
originate there at all. It was first suggested by a convention of
the four Eastern States, and New- York, at Hartford, and, I be-
lieve, was proposed there by the deputies of this State. A gen-
tleman on our bench, unconnected with Congress, who now
hears me (I mean Judge Hobart), was one of them. It was dic-
tated by a principle which hitter experience then taught us, and
which, in peace or war, will always be found true — that adequate
supplies to the federal treasury, can never flow from any system
which requires the intervention of thirteen deliberatives between
the call and the execution.

Congress agreed to the measure, and recommended it. This
State complied without hesitation. All parts of the government —
Senate, Assembly, and Council of Bevision — concurred; neither
the Constitution nor the public liberty presented any obstacle.
The difficulties from these sources are a recent discovery.

jEt. 30.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. 861

So late as the first session of the legislature, after the evacua-
tion of this city, tin' (inventor of the State, in his speech to both
Bouses, gave a deei<le<l eoiinteiianoe to the measure. This he
does, though not in express terms, yet by implications qo1 t - » be
misunderstood.

The leading opponents of the impost, of the presenl day, have
all of them, at other times, either concurred in the measure, in
its most exceptionable form, and without the qualifications an-
nexed to it by the proposed bill, or have, by other instances of
conduct, contradicted their own hypothesis on the Constitution,
which professedly forms the main prop of their opposition.

The honorable member in my eye ( ), at the last

session, brought in a bill for granting to the United States the
power of regulating the trade of the Union. This surely in-
cludes more ample legislative authority than is comprehended in
the mere power of levying a particular duty. It indeed goes to
a prodigious extent, much farther than, on a superficial view,
can be imagined. Can we believe that the constitutional ob-
jection, it' well founded, would so long have passed undiscovered
and unnoticed? Or, is it fair to impute to Congress criminal
motives for proposing a measure which wasnrst recommended
to them by five States, or from persisting in that measure, after
the unequivocal experience they have had of the total inefficacy
of the mode provided in the Confederation for supplying the
treasury of the Union ?

1 leave the answer to these questions to the good sense and
candor of the committee, and shall return to the examination of
the question, how far the power proposed to be conferred upon
Congress would be dangerous to the liberty of the people. And
here I ask —

Whence can this danger arise? The members of Congress
are annually chosen by the members of the several Legislatures.
They come together with different habits, prejudices, and in-
terests. They arc. in fact, continually changing. How i
possible for a body so composed to be formidable to the liberties
of States several of which arc large empires in themselv

The subversion of the liberty of these States could not be the

362 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

business of a day. It would at least require time, premeditation,
and concert. Can it be supposed, that the members of a body
so constituted, would be unanimous in a scheme of usurpation ?
If they were not, would it not be discovered and disclosed? If
we could even suppose this unanimity among one set of men,
can we believe that all the new members who are yearly sent
from one State or another, would instantly enter into the same
views ? Would there not be found one honest man to warn his
country of the danger ?

Suppose the worst — suppose the combination entered into and
continued. The execution would at least announce the design ;
and the means of defence would be easy. Consider the separate
power of several of these States, and the situation of all. Con-
sider the extent, populousness, and resources of Massachusetts,
Virginia, Pennsylvania ; I might add, of New- York, Connecti-
cut, and other States. Where could Congress find means suf-
ficient to subvert the government and liberties of either of these
States? or, rather, where find means sufficient to effect the con-
quest at all? If an attempt was made upon one, the others,
from a sense of common danger, would make common cause;
and they could immediately unite and provide for their joint
defence.

There is one consideration, of immense force in this question,
not sufficiently attended to. It is this — that each State possesses
in itself the full powers of government, and can at once, in a
regular and constitutional way, take measures for the preserva-
tion of its rights. In a single kingdom or state, if the rulers at-
tempt to establish a tyranny, the people can only defend them-
selves by a tumultuary insurrection; they must run to arms
without concert or plan ; while the usurpers, clothed with the
forms of legal authority, can employ the forces of the State to
suppress them in embryo, and before they can have time or op-
portunity to give system to their opposition. With us, the case
is widely different. Each State has a government, completely
organized in itself, and can at once enter into a regular plan of
defence ; with the forces of the community at its command, it
can immediately form connections with its neighbors, or even
with foreign powers, if necessary.

jEt. 30.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. •°>,'':'

In a contest of this kind, the body of the people will always
be on the side of the State governments. This will nol only re-
sult from their love of liberty, and regard to their own safely,
lmt from other strong principles of human nature. The State
governments operate upon those immediate familiar personal
concerns to which the sensibility of individuals is awake. The
distribution of private justice belonging to them, they must al-
ways appear to the senses of the people as the immediate guardi-
ans of their rights. They will, of course, have the strongest
hold on their attachment, respect, and obedience. Another cir-
cumstance will contribute to the same end : Far the greatest num-
ber of offices and employments are m the gift of the States sepa-
rately; the weight of official influence will therefore he in favor
of the State governments; and, with all these advantages, they
cannot fail to carry the people along with them in every contesl
with the Genera] Government in which they are not palpably in
the wrong, and often when they are. What is to be feared from
the efforts of Congress to establish a tyranny, with the great body
of the people, under the direction of their State governments,
combined in opposition to their views? Must not their attempts
recoil upon themselves, and terminate in their own ruin and dis-
grace? or, rather, would not these considerations, if they v.
insensible to other motives, for ever restrain them from making

such attempts?

The causes taken notice of, as securing the attachment of the
people to their local governments, presenl us with another im-
portant truth — the natural imbecility of Federal governments, and
the danger that they will never be able to exercise power enough
to manage the general affairs of the Onion; though the States
will have a common interest, ye1 they will also have a particular
interest. For example; as a part of the Union, it will be the
interest of every State to pay as little itself, and to let its neigh-
bors pay as much, as possible. Particular interests have always
more influence upon men than general. The Federal States,
therefore, consulting their immediate advantage, may be con-
sidered as so many eccentric power.-, tending in a contrary di-
rection to tin- government of the UNION; and a.- they \vi

364 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 30.

rally carry the people along with them, the Confederacy will
be in continual danger of dissolution. This, Mr. Chairman, is
the real rock upon which the happiness of this country is likely to
split. This is the point to which our fears and cares should be
directed — to guard against this, and not to terrify ourselves with
imaginary dangers from the spectre of power in Congress, will
be our true wisdom.

But let us examine a little more closely the measure under
consideration. What does the bill before us require us to do ?
Merely to grant duties on imposts to the United States, for the
short period of twenty-five years ; to be applied to the discharge
of the principal and interest of the debts contracted for the sup-
port of the late war ; the collection of which duties is to be
made by officers appointed by the State, but accountable to Con-
gress, according to such general regulations as the United States
shall establish, subject to these important checks, that no citizen
shall be carried out of the State for trial ; that all prosecutions
shall be in our own courts ; that no excessive fines or penalties
shall be imposed ; and that a yearly account of the proceeds and
application of the revenue shall be rendered to the legislature,
on failure of which it reserves to itself a right of repealing its
grant.

Is it possible for any measure to be better guarded ? or is it
possible that a grant for such precise objects, and with so many
checks, can be dangerous to the public liberty ?

Having now, as I trust, satisfactorily shown, that the Consti-
tution offers no obstacle to the measure ; and that the liberty of
the people cannot be endangered by it, it remains only to con-
sider it in the view of revenue.

The sole question left for discussion is, Whether it be an
eligible mode of supplying the Federal treasury or not ?

The better to answer this question, it will be of use to ex-
amine how far the mode by quotas and requisitions has been
found competent to the public exigencies.

The universal delinquency of the States during the war, shall
be passed over with the bare mention of it. The public embar-
rassments were a plausible apology for that delinquency ; and it

JEt. 30.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. 865

was hoped the peace would have produced greater punctuality.
The experiment has disappointed thai hope, to a degree which
confounds the leasl sanguine. A comparative new of the com-
pliances of the aeveral States, for tin- five lasl years, will rornish
a striking result

During thai period, as appears by a statement on our fi
New Eampshire, North Carolina, South Carolina, ami Georgia,
have paid nothing. I say nothing, because the only actual pay-
ment, is the trifling sum of about 7000 dollars by New Hamp-
shire. South Carolina indeed has credits, but these are merely
by way of discount, on the supplies furnished by her during tin-
war, in consideration of her peculiar sult'erings and exertions
while the immediate theatre of it.

Connecticut and Delaware have paid about one third of their
requisitions. Massachusetts, Khode Island, and Maryland, about
one half; Virginia about three fifths, Pennsylvania nearly the
whole, and New-York more than her quota.

These proportions are taken on the specie requisitions, the
indents have been very partially paid, and in their present state
are otdittle account.

The payments into the Federal treasury have declined ra-
pidly each year. The whole amount, for three years past, in
specie, has not exceeded L,400,000 dollars, of which New-York
has paid LOO per cent, more than her proportion. This sum,
little more than fc00,000 dollars a year, it will readily be con-
ceived, has been exhausted in the support of the civil estab-
lishments of the Union, and the necessary guards and garrisons
of public arsenals, and on the frontiers: without any surplus
for paying any part of the debt, foreign or domestic, principal
or interest

Things are continually growing worse ; the last year in parti-
cular produced less than two hundred thousand dollars, and that
from only two or three States. Several of the States have b
so long unaccustomed to pay, that they seem no longer con-
cerned even about the appea i'a uccs of compliance.

Connecticut and Jersey have almost formally declined paying
any longer. The ostensible motive is the non-concurrence "t

366 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 30.

this State in the impost system. The real one must be conjec-
tured from the fact.

Pennsylvania, if I understand the scope of some late reso-
lutions, means to discount the interest she pays upon her
assumption to her own citizens ; in which case there will be
little coming from her to the United States. This seems to be
bringing matters to a crisis.

The pecuniary support of the Federal Government has of
late devolved almost entirely upon Pennsylvania and New- York.
If Pennsylvania refuses to continue her aid, what will be the sit-
uation of New- York ? Are we willing to be the Atlas of the
Union ? or are we willing to see it perish ?

This seems to be the alternative. Is there not a species of
political knight-errantry in adhering pertinaciously to a system
which throws the whole weight of the Confederation upon this
State, or upon one or two more ? Is it not our interest, on mere
calculations of State policy, to promote a measure, which, ope-
rating under the same regulations in every State, must pro-
duce an equal, or nearly equal, effect every where, and oblige
all the States to share the common burthen ?

If the impost is granted to the United States, with the
power of levying it, it must have a proportionate effect in all
the States, for the same mode of collection every where will
have nearly the same return every where.

What must be the final issue of the present state of things ?
Will the few States that now contribute, be willing to contri-
bute much longer? Shall we ourselves be long content with
bearing the burthen singly ? Will not our zeal for a particular
system, soon give way to the pressure of so unequal a weight ?
And if all the States cease to pay, what is to become of the
Union ? It is sometimes asked, Why do not Congress oblige the
States to do their duty? But where are the means? Where are
the fleets and armies, where the Federal treasury to support
those fleets and armies, to enforce the requisitions of the
Union ? All methods short of coercion, have repeatedly been
tried in vain.

Let us now proceed to another most important inquiry. How

JEt. 30.] NEW-YORK LEGISLATURE. 36?

are we to pay our foreign debt? This, I think, is estimated al
aboul 7,000,000 of dollars, which will every year increase with
the accumulations of interest, [fwe pay neither principal nor
interest, we do1 only abandon all pretensions to character as a
nation, bu1 we endanger the public peace. Eowever it may be
in our power to evade the just demands of our domestic creditors,
our foreign creditors must and will be paid.

Tiny have power to enforce their demands, and Booner or
later they may he expected to do it. It is not my intention to
endeavor to excite the apprehensions of the committee, but I
would appeal to their prudence. A discreel attention to the con-
sequences of national measures is no impeachment of our firmness.

Tlic foreign debt, 1 say, must sooner or later lie paid, and the
longer provision is delayed the heavier it must tall at last.

We require about biioi.i.nno dollars to discharge the interest
and instalments <>i' the present year, about a million annually
upon an average, for ten years more, and about 300,000 do h
for another ten years.

The producl u(' the impost may be computed a1 aboul a mil-
lion of dollars annually. It is an increasing fund. This fund
would not only suffice lor the discharge of the foreign debt, but
important operations might be ingrafted upon it towards the
extinguishment of the domestic debt.

Is it possible to hesitate about the propriety of adoptii
resource so easy in itself, and so extensive in its effi cts?

Here I expect 1 1 1 1 ; i \ be told tlieiv is no objection to employ-
ing this resource. The acl of the lasl session does it. The "illy
dispute is aboul the mode. We are willing to grant the money,
hut not the power required from us. Money will pay our debts;
power may destroy our liberties.

It has been insinuated that nothing bu1 a lust of power would
have prevented Congress from accepting the grant in the shape
it has already passed the legislature. This is a Bevere charge.
If true, it ought undoubtedly to prevent our going ;i step further.
Bu1 it is e.i-'. to .-how that Congress could not have accepted our
grant without removing themselves further from the object than
they now are. To gain o State they must have lost all the

368 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [-tor. 30.

others. The grants of every State are accompanied with a con-
dition that similar grants be made by the other States. It is not
denied that our act is essentially different from theirs. Their
acts give the United States the power of collecting the duty ;
ours reserves it to the State, and makes it receivable in paper
money.

The immediate consequences of accepting our grant would be
a relinquishment of the grants of other States. They must take
the matter up anew, and do the work over again to accommodate
it to our standard. In order to anchor one State, would it have
been wise to set twelve, or at least eleven others, afloat ?

It is said, that the States which have granted more would
certainly be willing to grant less. They would easily accommo-
date their acts to that of New-York, as more favorable to their
own power and security.

But would Massachusetts and Virginia, which have no paper
money of their own, accede to a plan that permitted other States
to pay in paper while they paid in specie ? Would they consent
that their citizens should pay twenty shillings in the pound, while
the citizens of Rhode Island paid only /our, the citizens of North
Carolina ten, and of other States in different degrees of inequality,
in proportion to the relative depreciation of their paper ? Is it
wise, in this State, to cherish a plan that gives such an advantage
to the citizens of other States over its own ?

The paper money of the State of New- York, in most transac-
tions, is equal to gold and silver; that of Rhode Island is depre-
ciated to five for one ; that of North Carolina to two for one ;
that of South Carolina may perhaps be worth fifteen shillings in
the pound.

If the States pay the duties in paper, is it not evident that
for every pound of that duty consumed by the citizen of New-
York, he would pay twenty shillings, while the citizen of South
Carolina would pay fifteen shillings; of North Carolina, ten
shillings ; and Rhode Island, only four !

This consideration alone is sufficient to condemn the plan of
our grant of last session, and to prove incontestably that the
States which are averse to emitting a paper currency, or have it

Mr. 30.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. 369

in their power to support one when emitted, would uever come
into it.

Again, would those States which by their public acts de-
monstrate a conviction that the powers of the Union require
augmentation; which arc conscious of energy in their own ad-
ministration— would they be willing to concur in a plan which
left the collection of the duties in the hands of each State; and
of course subject to all the inequalities which a more or less
vigorous system of collection would produce?

This too is an idea which ought to have great weight with us.
We have better habits of government than are to be found in
some of the States; and our Constitution admits of more energy
than the Constitution of most of the other States. The duties,
therefore, would be more effectually collected with us than in
such States, and this would have a similar effect to the deprecia-
tion of the money, in imposing a greater burthen on the citizens
of this State.

If any State should incline to evade the payment of the du-
ties, having the collection in its own hands, nothing would be
easier than to effect it, and without materially sacrificing appear-
ances.

It is manifest, from this view of the subject, that we have the
strongest reasons, as a State, to depart from our own act; and
that it would have been highly injudicious in Congress to have
accepted it.

11 there even had been a prospect of the concurrence of the
other States in the plan, how inadequate would it have been to
the public exigencies, lettered with the embarrassments of a de-
preciating paper !

It is to no purpose to say, that the faith of the State was
pledged by the act to make the paper equal to gold and silver ;
and that the other States would be obliged to do the same.
What greater dependence can be had on the faith of the St
pledged to this measure, than on the faith they pledged in the Con-
federation sanctioned by a solemn appeal to heaven? If the obli-
gation of faith in one case has had so little influence upon their
conduct in respect to the requisitions of Congress, what hope

b 24

370 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 30.

can there be that they would have greater influences in respect to
the deficiencies of the paper money ?

There yet remains an important light in which to consider
the subject in the way of revenue. It is a clear point that we
cannot carry the duties upon imports to the same extent by sepa-
rate arrangements as by a general plan — we must regulate our-
selves by what we find done in the neighboring States : while
Pennsylvania has only two and a half per cent, on her importa-
tions, we cannot greatly exceed her. To go much beyond it
would injure our commerce in a variety of ways, and would de-
feat itself. While the ports of Connecticut and Jersey are open
to the introduction of goods free from duty, and the conveyance
from them to us is so easy — while they consider our imposts as
an ungenerous advantage taken of them, which it would be laud-
able to elude, the duties must be light or they would be evaded.
The facility to do it, and the temptation of doing it, would be
both so great, that we should collect perhaps less by an increase
of the rates than we do now. Already we experience the effects
of this situation. But if the duties were to be levied under a
common direction, with the same precautions every where to
guard against smuggling, they might be carried without prejudice
to trade to a much more considerable height.

As things now are, we must adhere to the present standard of
duties, without any material alterations. Suppose this to pro-
duce fifty thousand pounds a year. The duties to be granted
to Congress ought, in proportion, to produce double that sum.
To this it appears, by a scheme now before us, that additional
duties might be imposed for the use of the State, on certain enu-
merated articles, to the amount of thirty thousand pounds. This
would be an augmentation of our national revenue by in-
direct taxation to the extent of eighty thousand pounds a year,
an immense object in a single State, and which alone demon-
strates the good policy of the measure.

It is no objection to say that a great part of this fund will be
dedicated to the use of the United States. Their exigencies
must be supplied in some way or other. The more is done to-
wards it by means of the impost, the less will be to be done in

vEt. 30.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. 371

other modes. IT we do not employ thai resource to the best
account, we must find others in direct taxation. And to this are
opposed all the habits and prejudices of the community. T;
is not a farmer in the State who would not pay a shilling in the
voluntary consumption of articles on which a duty is paid,
rather than a penny imposed immediately on his bouse and land.

There is but one objection to the measure under consideration
that lias come to my knowledge, which yel remains to be discuss-
ed. I mean the effect it is supposed to have upon our paper
currency. It is said the diversion of this fund would leave the
oredil of the paper without any effectual support.

Though I should not be disposed to put a consideration of
this kind in competition with the safety of the Union; yet I
should be extremely cautious about doing any thing that might
alii ict t he credit of our currency. The legislature hav ing thought
an emission of paper advisable, I consider it my duty as a repre-
sentative of the people to take care of its credit. The farmers
appeared willing to exchange their produce for it; the merchants
on the other hand had large debts outstanding. They supposed
that giving a free circulation to the paper would enable their
customers in the country to pay, and as they perceived that
they would have it in their power to convert the money into pro-
duce, they naturally resolved to give it their support.

These causes combined to introduce the money into general
circulation, and having once obtained credit, it will now be able
to support itself.

The chief difficulty to have been apprehended in respect to
the paper, was to overcome the diffidence which the still recent
experience of depreciating paper had instilled w .Vs minds.

This, it was to have been feared, would have shaken its credil at
its outset, and if it had <>}i,:<- began to .sink, it would be no ei
matter to prevent its total decline.

The event has, however, turned ou1 otherwise, and the money
been fortunate enough to conciliate the general confidence.

This point gained, there need be no apprehensions of its future
fate, unices the government should do something to d< that

confidence.

372 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

The causes that first gave it credit still operate, and will in
all probability continue so to do. The demand for money has
not lessened, and the merchant has still the same inducement to
countenance the circulation of the paper.

I shall not deny that the outlet which the payment of duties
furnished to the merchant, was an additional motive to the re-
ception of the paper. Nor is it proposed to take away this mo-
tive. There is now before the House a bill, one object of which
is the establishment of a State impost on certain enumerated arti-
cles, in addition to that to be granted to the United States. It
is computed on very good grounds, that the additional duties
would amount to about £30,000, and as they would be payable
in paper currency, they would create a sufficient demand upon
the merchant to leave him, in this respect, substantially the same
inducement which he had before. Indeed, independent of this,
the readiness of the trading people to take the money can never
be doubted, while it will freely command the commodities of the
country ; for this, to them, is the most important use they can
make of it.

But besides the State impost, there must be other taxes : and
these will all contribute to create a demand for the money;
which is all we now mean when we talk of funds for its support ;
for there are none appropriated for the redemption of the paper.

Upon the whole, the additional duties will be a competent
substitute for those now in existence ; and the general good will
of the community towards the paper, will be the best security
for its credit.

Having now shown, Mr. Chairman, that there is no constitu-
tional impediment to the adoption of the bill ; that there is no
danger to be apprehended to the public liberty from giving the
power in question to the United States ; that in the view of revenue
the measure under consideration is not only expedient but neces-
sary— let us turn our attention to the other side of this impor-
tant subject. Let us ask ourselves, what will be the consequence
of rejecting the bill ? What will be the situation of our national
affairs if they are left much longer to float in the chaos in which
they are now involved ?

Ev. 30.] NEW-YORK LEGISLATURE. 373

Can our National Character be preserved withoul paying
our debts? Can the Dniok subsist withou! revenue? Eavewe
realized the consequences which would attend its dissolution?

1 F these States are not united under a Federal government
they will infallibly have wars with each other; and their divi-
sions will subjecl them to all the mischiefs of foreign influence
and intrigue. The human passions will never want objects of
hostility- The Western Territory is an obvious and fruitful
source of contest. Lei us also cast our eye upon the map of this
State, intersected from one extremity to the other by a large
navigable river. In the event of a rupture with them, what is to
hinder our metropolis from becoming a prey to our neighbors ?
Is it even supposable that they would suffer it to remain the nur-
sery of wealth to a distinct community?

These subjects are delicate, but it is necessary to contemplate
them, to teach us to form a true estimate of our situation.

Wars with each other would beget standing armies — a source
of more real danger to our liberties than all the powers that
could be conferred upon the representatives of the Union. And
wars with each other would lead to opposite alliances with
foreign powers, and plunge us into all the labyrinths of European
politic-.

The Romans, in their progress to universal dominion, when
they conceived the project of subduing the refractory spirit of
the Grecian republics, which composed the famous Achaian
League, began by sowing dissensions among them, and instilling
jealousies of each other, and of the common head, and finished
by making them a province of the Roman empire.

■ application is easy: if there are any foreign enemies, if
there are any domestic foes to this country, all their arts and ar-
tifices will be employed to effect a dissolution of the Union.
This cannot 1"' better done than by sowing jealousies of the Fed-
eral head, and cultivating in each State an undue, attachment to
its own power.

374 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iE-r. 30.

INDEPENDENCE OF VERMONT.

An act to empower and direct the delegates of this State in Congress,
to accede to, ratify, and confirm the sovereignty and independence
of the people of the territory commonly called and known by the
name of the State of Vermont. 1787.

Be it enacted by the people of the State of New-York, represented
in Senate and Assembly, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of
tlie same, That the delegates of this State in the Cougress of the
United States of America, or any two of them, shall be, and
hereby are fully authorized, empowered, and required, wholly,
entirely, and absolutely, for and in behalf of the people of this
State, and in such manner, and with such formalities as shall be
determined in Congress, to accede to, recognize, ratify, approve
and confirm the independence and sovereignty of the people in-
habiting the Territory commonly called and known by the name
of the State of Vermont :

Provided, always, that it be, and it hereby is declared to be,
an indispensable preliminary to such act of accession to and re-
cognition of the independence and sovereignty of the said people,
that they explicitly relinquish and renounce all claims and pre-
tensions to any lands, territory, or jurisdiction, on the east side
of the west bank of Connecticut river, and on the west side of a
line beginning at a point in the north bounds of the State or
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Bay, at the distance of twenty
miles on a direct line from Hudson's river, thence running
twenty miles east of Hudson's river, so far as the said river runs
north-easterly in its general course ; then by the west bounds of
the townships granted by the late government of New Hamp-
shire, to the river running from South Bay to Lake Champlain ;
thence, along said river to Lake Champlain ; thence along the east
side of the Lake Champlain to the latitude of forty-five degrees
north ; excepting only a neck of land between Missiskoy Bay
and the waters of Lake Champlain :

Provided, also, that such act of accession to and recognition
of the independence and sovereignty of the said people, shall be

jEt. 30.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. :>'75

upon this express condition, that the Baid people Bhall thereupon
immediately accede, to be received into, and become a member of
the Confederacy of the United States of America, to all intents
and purposes whatsoever.

Provided, also, that such act of accession to, and recogni-
tion of the said independence and sovereignty of the said peo-
ple, shall be upon this further condition : that the rights, titles,
or claims, of any person or persons, to lands within the said ter-
ritory of Vermont, by virtue of grants under the government of
the late Colony or Province of New-York, shall be and remain in
as full force as if tins act had never passed, to be asserted, prose-
cuted, maintained, and determined, agreeably to the mode speci-
lied and prescribed in the 9th of the Articles of Confederation
and perpetual union for the determination of controversies con-
cerning the private right of soil claimed under different grants of
two or more States ; and

Provided, always, that nothing in this act contained, nor any
act, matter, or thing, to be done and transaet.,1 by the delegates
of this State in the Congress of the said United States of Ame-
rica, in and concerning the premises, or any part thereof, shall
bind or oblige, or be construed, deemed, or taken to bind or
oblige the Government, Legislature, people, subjects, or inhabit-
ants of this State, until not less than eight other of the said
United States of America, of which number the State of Xew
Hampshire to be one, shall accede to, recognize, rarity, approve,
and confirm the sovereignty and independence of the said people
of the said Territory of Vermont.

SPEECH ON ACCEDING TO THE INDEPENDENCE OF VERMONT.

The counsel for the petitioners has entered into a large field
ofargumenl against the present bill, lie has endeavored to s

that it is contrary to tl ( -t itnti. >n. to the maxims of SO
policy, and to the rights of property. His observations have not
11 destitute of weight. They appear to have the more force,

376 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 30.

as they are to a certain degree founded in truth. But it is the
province of the committee to distinguish the just limits of the
principles he has advanced ; how far they extend, and where
they terminate. To aid the committee in this inquiry shall be
my endeavor, and following the counsel for the petitioners
through the different heads of his argument, I hope to be able to
show, that neither of the objections he has urged stands in the
way of the measure proposed, and that the Constitution permits,
policy demands it, and justice acquiesces in its adoption.

The first objection is drawn from that great principle of the
social compact, — that the chief object of government is to protect
the rights of individuals by the united strength of the com-
munity. The justness of this principle is not to be disputed, but
its extent remains to be ascertained. It must be taken with this
limitation :— The united strength of the community ought to be
exerted for the protection of individuals so far as there is a rational
prospect of success ; so far as is consistent with the safety and
well being of the whole. The duty of a nation is always limited
by these considerations : — It is bound to make efforts and encoun"
ter hazards for the protection of its members, proportioned to its
abilities, warranted by a reasonable expectation of a favorable
issue, and compatible with its eventual security. But it is not
bound to enter in or prosecute enterprises of a manifest rashness
and folly ; or which, in the event of success, would be productive
of more mischief than good.

This qualification of the principle, can no more be denied
than the principle itself. The counsel for the petitioners indeed
admits it in substance, when he admits that a case of extreme
necessity is an exception to the rule : but he adds that this neces-
sity should be apparent and unequivocal.

What constitutes a case of extreme necessity, admits of no
precise definition. It is always a question of fact, to be deter-
mined by a consideration of the condition of the parties and the
particular circumstances of the case itself. A case of necessity
then exists, when every discerning unprejudiced man, well
acquainted with facts, must be convinced that a measure cannot be
undertaken or pursued with a probability of success. To determine

iET. 30.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. 377

this an experiment is not always necessary : circumstances may
exisl bo decisive and palpable in their nature, as to render it the
extreme of temerity to begin aswell aa to continw an experiment.
The propriety of doing either the one or the other, must equally
be decided by n judicious estimate of the national situation.

The tendency of the principle contended for, on the applica-
tion of it in argument, has been to prove thai the State ought to
employ the common strength of the society to protecl the rights
of its citizens, interested in the district of territory in question, by
reducing the revolted inhabitants of thai district to an obedie
to its laws. The inquiry therefore is, — Can this be done? Is the
Stat.' in a situation to undertake it? Is there a probability that
the objecl will be more attainable at a future day? Is there not
rather a probability that it will be every day more out of our
reach, and that leaving things in their present state, will be attend-
ed with serious dangers and inconveniences? Is it even desirable,
if practicable, to reduce the people in question under subjection
to this State?

In pursuing this inquiry we ought to bear in mind, that a
nation is never to regulate its conduct by remote possibilities or
mere contingencies, bu1 by such probability as may reasonably
be inferred from the existing state of things, and the usual course
of human affairs.

With this caution, uo well informed mind can be at a loss in
■what mannerto answer the questions I have proposed. A con-
cise review of the past, and a dispassionate consideration of the
present, will enable ns to judge with accuracy of the obligations
and interests of the State.

The pretensions to independence of the district of territory
in question, began shortly after the commencement of the late
revolution. We weir then engaged in a war for our existence

people, which required the utmost exertion of our resoun
to give as a chance of success. To have diverted any part <>[
them from this objecl to thai of Bubduing the inhabitants of
Vermont, to have involved a domestic quarrel which would h
compelled that hardy and numerous body of men to throw them-
Belves into the arms of the power with which we were then

378 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 30.

contending, instead of joining their efforts to ours in the common
cause of American liberty, as they for a long time did, with great
advantage to it, would have been a species of frenzy, for which
there could have been no apology, and would have endangered
the fate of the revolution more than any one step we could have
taken.

This idea is too obvious to need being enlarged upon. The
most prejudiced will acquit the State from blame for not trying
the effect of force against that people during the continuance of
the war. Every moderate measure, every thing short of hostility
or a total sacrifice of those rights, which were the original cause
of the revolt, and which are the occasion of the opposition to the
present bill, were tried. Conciliating laws were passed, overtures
made, negotiations carried on in Congress, but all to»no purpose.

The peace found the Vermonters in a state of actual inde-
pendence, which they had enjoyed for several years — organized
under a regular form of government, and increased in strength
by a considerable accession of numbers. It found this State the
principal seat of the war, exhausted by peculiar exertions and
overwhelmed in debt. The embarrassments arising from this
situation press us daily. The utmost exertion of wisdom in our
public councils, would not be more than equal to extricating us
from them. As matters stand, the public debts are unprovided
for, and the public credit prostrate.

Are we now in a situation to undertake the reduction of Ver-
mont; or are we likely speedily to be in such a situation?
Where are our resources, where our public credit, to enable us to
carry on an offensive war?

We ought to recollect, that in war, to defend or attack, are
two different things : to the first, the mountains, the wilderness,
the militia, sometimes even the poverty of a country will suffice.
The latter requires an army and a treasury.

The population of Vermont will not be rated too high, if
stated at nearly one half of that of New-York. Can any reason-
able man suppose that New-York, with the load of debt the revo-
lution has left upon it, and under a popular government, would
be able to carry on with advantage an offensive war against a

jEt. 30.] NEW-YORK LEGISLATURE. 379

people half as numerous as itself, in their own territory; a terri-
tory defended as much by its natural situation as by the numbers
and hardihood of its inhabitants? Can it be imagined thai it
would 1"' able, finally, to reduce such a people to it.- obedien

The supposition would be chimerieal, and the attempt madii

Can we hope a more favorable posture of affairs hereafter?
Will not the population and strength of Vermont increase in ra-
tio to our own? There is, perhaps, no essentia] difference be-
tween their government and ours. The necessity of making
provision, in one way or another, for the exigencies of the
Onion, and for the discharge of the debts of the State, must con-
tinue to subject our citizens to heavier burthens than are borne
by the inhabitants of that country, "who have no call for revenue
beyond the support of their domestic administration. A country
possessing a fertile soil, exempt from taxes, cannot fail of having
a rapid growth.

The enterprise will of course become more difficult by delay ;
and procrastination can only serve to render the claims of the
State and its citizens, in the opinion of mankind, obsolete, and to
give the consent of time to the connection which the people of
Vermont have, in all appearance, already formed with the British
Government. This last point 1 shall discuss more fully in ano-
ther place.

I have confined myself in my reasoning to an examination of
whal is practicable on the part of this State alone. No assist-
ance is to be expected from our neighbors. Their opinion of the
origin of the controversy between this State and the people of
Vermont, whether well or ill founded, is not generally in our fa-
vor; and it is notorious that the E i States have uniformly
countenanced the independence of that country. This might
suggest to us reflections that would confirm the belief of the im-
practicability of destroying, and the danger of attempting to
destroy thai independence.

The scheme of coercion would ill suit even the dispositio
our own citizens. The habits of thinking to which the Revolu-
tion has given birth, are nol adapted to the idea of a contest for
dominion over a people disinclined to live under our govern-

380 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

ment. And, in reality, it is not the interest of the State ever to
regain dominion over them by force. We shall do well to advert
to the nature of our government, and to the extent of this State,
according to its acknowledged limits. Are we sure we shall be
able to govern what we already possess ? or would it be wise to
wish to try the strength of our government over a numerous
body of people disaffected to it, and compelled to submit to its
authority by force ? For my part, I should regard the reunion
of Vermont to this State as one of the greatest evils that could
befall it; as a source of continual embarrassment and disqui-
etude.

It is hinted by the counsel for the petitioners, that many of
the inhabitants of Vermont are desirous of living under our gov-
ernment; and sanguine tempers have long ago predicted that
they would shortly grow weary of their independence, throw it
off, and become reunited with us and New Hampshire, of their
own accord. There are clear principles of human nature, to
which we may resort to falsify this prediction. In popular gov-
ernments, the sentiments of the people generally take their tone
from their leaders. The leaders of Vermont cannot desire a re-
union with New-York, because this would amount to an abdica-
tion of their own power and consequence. The people of Ver-
mont will not desire it ; because no people ever desired to pass
from a situation in which they were exempted from taxes, and in
which they suffered no particular oppression, to one in which
they would be subject to burthens comparatively heavy.

I pass now to an examination of the constitutionality of the
measure proposed by the bill. It is observed, that by the Con-
stitution the counties of Charlotte, Cumberland, and Gloucester,
are constituent parts of the State ; that one article of it declares
that no power shall be exercised over the people, but such as is
derived from and granted by them ; that no express power is
given to the Legislature to dismember any part of the State ; and
that this silence of the Constitution is a tacit reservation of that
power to the people.

To all this I answer, that the sovereignty of the people, by
our Constitution, is vested in their representatives in Senate and

Mt. 30.] NEW-YORK LEGISLATURE. 381

Assembly, with tin' intervention of the Council of Revision, and,
thai the power of dismembering the State, under certain circum-
stances, is a necessary appendage of the sovereignty. The prac-
tice of nations, and the authority of writers, conspire to establish
this principle; and the safety of society requires it. There are
certain situations of kingdoms and States, in which the sacrifice
of a part is essential to the preservation or welfare of the rest.

History furnishes abundanl examples of such sacrifices. Na-
tions, in making peace, frequently cede parts of their territories
to each other. Civil commotions have many times produced
similar dismemberments. The monarchy of Spain, after a de-
structive and fruitless contest to preserve it, was obliged, at last,
to surrender its dominion over the Netherlands. The crown of
Austria was, in like manner, compelled to abandon its jurisdic-
tion over the Swiss Cantons. And the United States are a re-
cent, and still more signal instance of the exercise of the same
right. Neither of these instances has been censured or con-
demned, nor the power of the sovereign to accede to the separa-
tion called in question.

The celebrated author quoted by the counsel for the petition-
ers, is explicit on this article, and decides with clearness that the
prince or body intrusted with the sovereign authority, may, in
certain emergencies, dismember the empire, and lop off a limb
for the good of the body. This inference from the silence of a
1 ostitution, is the reverse of that drawn by the counsel of the
petitioners. Doubts have been raised by particular theorists
upon the subject; but their theories were too abstracl for prac-
tice, and are now exploded by the ablest writers on the laws of
nations. Indeed, those doubts were chiefly applied to the case
of a cession, or relinquishment, of a pari of the empire still in
possession of the sovereign. It has Ion- been considered as a clear
point, that where a part of an empire is actually severed^ by con-
quest, or a revolution, the prince, or body vested with the
administration of the government, has a right to assent to and to
ratify that separation. This is an obvious and important distinc-
tion; from which other inferences of moment will be drawn in
another place. It will be found in Vattel, book four, chapter
second.

382 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 30.

Yerniont is, in fact, severed from New- York, and has been so
for years. There is no reasonable pros]3ect of recovering it, and
the attempt would be attended with certain and serious calami-
ties. The Legislature have, therefore, an undoubted right to re-
linquish it, and policy dictates that it should be done.

It is of no force to say that this principle would authorize
the dismemi erment of Long Island, or of any other part of the
State. There is no doubt, the same circumstances concurring,
the same consequences would result, but not sooner ; and it will
be the duty of the State to endeavor to prevent a similar ex-
tremity.

The next thing in the order observed by the counsel for the
petitioners that presents itself to our discussion is the policy of
the measure.

Against this it is objected, that the precedent would be dan-
gerous, that the facility with which the Yermonters will have
accomplished their object, might invite other parts of this State
and the United States to follow their example.

To this I answer, that examples have little to do with the
revolutions of empire. Wherever such a state of things exists
as to make it the interest or the inclination of a large body of
people to separate from the society with which they have been
connected, and at the same time to afford a prospect of success,
they will generally yield to the impulse, without much inquiry
or solicitude about what has been done by others, or upon other
occasions ; and when this is not the case, precedents will never
create the disposition. Events of this kind are not produced or
controlled by the ordinary operations of human policy, care
or contrivance.

But, whatever may be the effect of the example, it is too
late to prevent or redress the evil. It sprang up under circum-
stances which forbade the application of an effectual remedy,
and it has now acquired a maturity which would mock all our
efforts to counteract it. Yerniont is lost to New- York, beyond
the possibility of a recovery; and a passive acquiescence in its
independence cannot make it more formidable, as an example,
than a direct recognition of it. Success and impunity are the

Mt. 30.] NEW-YORK LEGISLATURE. .W.

ingredients that are to constitute the force of the example, and
these will exist in either case.

On the other hand, the policy of the measure results from two
important considerations. The one, that by the union of Vermont
to the Confederacy, i1 must of course bear a proportion of the
public burdens; the other, that it would be detached from the
completion of a connection, already in all appearance begun with
a foreign power. The incorporation of Vermont into the Con-
federacy is by the bill made an express condition of the acknow-
ledgmenl of their independence.

The first advantage was too obvious to be denied, though
observations have be< n made to diminish its importance. Its
inland situation has been noted as a circumstance that precluded
the expectation of any considerable revenue from it. But the same
thing might be said of the interior parts of this and of the other
States; and yet we should make a much worse figure than wedo
if our resources were to be drawn wholly from our Atlantic set-
tlements. The country of Vermont is fertile and will soon be
populous, and the resources which it may be capable of afford
a1 a day not far remote, though not of great magnitude, will by
no means be contemptible.

Bu1 the principal advantage to be expected from the measure
is the one mentioned last. Here it is asked. Where is the evidence
of the fact, where the proof of the connection? Would Great
Britain, which has so recently, in a solemn treaty, acknowledged
the territory in question to be comprehended within the Limits of
the United States, derogate from thai treaty, and for so insignifi-
cant an object, as a connection with a small corner of one of the
-. hazard a rupture with the whole Confederacy?

V' expecting a formal call for the evidence of the fact, my
memory is not prepared to enter into all the details requisite to
it- lull elucidation. I well remember that during the latter peri
of the war, a variety of circumstances produced a conviction of its
existence every where ; in the army, in the Legislature, and in
Cong 'i --. Among other transactions thai came to my knowled
I shall mention one as nearly as my recollection will serve me.
Some time in the year 17bl, Fay, and Ira AH n, two of the n

384 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 30.

influential individuals in that country, went into Canada, and we
were well informed had repeated interviews with General Hal-
dimand. Not long after, a party of the British under St. Leger,
penetrated as far as Ticonderoga.

A detachment from that body fell in by accident with a small
party of Vermonters, fired upon them, killed one of their
number, and took the rest prisoners. Discovering their mistake,
they interred the dead body with the honors of war, and sent the
prisoners home loaded with kindnesses and caresses. From that
period a free intercourse subsisted between Canada and Vermont.
This is one proof, and a pretty decisive one, to show that a con-
nection was formed during the war. I doubt not there are others
equally strong, within the recollection of other members of the
committee. Since the peace, this intercourse has been cultivated
with reciprocal zeal, and there are circumstances related (which I
shall not repeat, as they do not come to me with sufficient authen-
ticity) that look strongly to a continuance of the connection.

If this connection ever existed, what reason have we to '
believe that it has been since dissolved ? To me, I confess, there
appears none. On the contrary, the situation of the parties in
my opinion forbid the supposition of its dissolution.

I flatter myself, those who know my manner of thinking, will
acquit me of a disposition to sow groundless jealousies of any
nation. I consider a conduct of this kind, as undignified and
indelicate in a public character ; and if I were not persuaded the
suspicions I entertain are well founded, no motive would have
induced me to bring them forward.

It is asked, in substance, what object Great Britain can have
in cultivating such connection. This admits of several answers.

Great Britain cannot but see our governments are feeble and
distracted ; that the Union wants energy ; the nation concert.
That our public debts are unprovided for ; our federal treasuries
empty; our trade languishing. She may flatter herself that
this state of things will be productive of discontents among the
people; and that these discontents may lead to a voluntary
return to her dominion. She may hope to see in this country a
counterpart of the restoration of Charles the Second. However

jEt. 30.] NEW-YORK LEGISLATURE. 385

mistaken the y maj be, i1 is not impossible, thai speculations of
this kind may enter into the b< ad of a British minister.

The goveramenl lately established in Canada the splendid
title of Viceroy- seem to look beyond the dreary regions of
Canada and Nova Sc< »tia.

In this view, she would naturally lay hold of Vermonl
link in the chain of events, [t would be a positive acquisition
of s<> much, and nothing could better answer the purpose of accel-
erating the progress of discontent than the example of a country,
part of ourselves, comparatively speaking, free from taxes.
Nothing could have a more powerful influence than such an
example upon the inhabitants of the settlements bordering upon
that country. How far and bow rapidlyit might extend itself is
a matter not easy to be calculated.

But laying aside every supposition of this nature there are
motives of interesl which would dispose the British government
tocultivate Vermont. A connection with Vermont will hereafter
conduce to the security of Canada, and to the preservation of the
Western posts. Thai Greal Britain means to retain these posts
may be inferred I'n >m the interesl she has in doing it. The osten-
sible reason for not having delivered them up heretofore is
the infractions of the treaty on our part: but though these
infractions in some instances cannot be denied, it may fairly
be presumed, that they are nothing more than the pretext for
withholding the posts, while the true motive is the prodigious
advantage which the monopoly of the fur trade affords to the

commerce of the English nation.

It' Great Britain has fori 1 the design of finally retaining

those posts, she must look forward sooner or later to a rupture
with this country; for, degraded as we are by our mismana
ment, she can hardly entertain so mean an opinion of as as to
expect we shall eventually submit to such a violation of our
rights and interests without a struggle. And, in such a case,
Vermont would be no despicable auxiliary.

But would Greal Britain hazard a war with the I'uitcd
State-, for so inconsiderable an object?

In the first place, the object is not inconsiderable. In the

B 25

386 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

next, our situation is not such as to render our resentment
formidable. This situation is perhaps better understood by
every body else than ourselves ; and no nation would forego a
present advantage to our detriment, while it knew that a change
of government must precede any inconveniencies from our dis-
pleasure.

I do not suppose that the British government would, in the
present state of things, commit itself to any avowed engagements
with the people of Vermont. It will, no doubt, take care to be in
such a situation as to leave itself at liberty to act according to
circumstances ; but it will, and I have no doubt does, by the
intermediation of its officers, keep up a secret intercourse with
the leaders of that people, to endeavor gradually to mould them
to its interest, to be ready to convert them to its own purposes
upon any favorable conjuncture or future emergency. This
policy is so obvious and safe, that it would be presumable with-
out any evidence of its existence.

On the part of Vermont, while their fate in the American
scale remains suspended, considerations of safety would direct
them to such a connection with the British government. They
would not choose to lie at our mercy, or to depend on their
strength, if they could find refuge and support elsewhere.

There is a circumstance, too, mentioned with a different view
by the council for the petitioners, which would contribute to
this connection. I mean the relative situation of Canada and
Vermont. It is asked, " May not this situation induce Vermont
to regret the offer of independence, and prompt the people of
that country, for the sake of commerce, to form still closer con-
nections with a foreign power?" I ask, does not this situation,
which it is supposed might have so powerful an influence, afford
a strong presumption of the existence of such a connection?
And is it not our true policy to take away every additional
temptation ?

I shall readily admit that it is very doubtful whether Ver-
mont will accept the proffered acknowledgment of its inde-
pendence, upon the condition annexed. I firmly believe that
she does not desire it, and that she would be perplexed by the

JEt. 30.] NEW-YORK LEGISLATURE. 387

dilemma to which she would be reduced. Bu1 whether she

accepts it or not, the offer maybe expected to have a good effect.
It would at leasl serve to ascertain facts. Her refusal would be
a conclusive evidence of a determined predilection to a foreign
connection; and it would show the United States the absolute
necessity of combining their efforts to subvert an independe
so hostile to their safety. It' they should find themselves unequal
to the undertaking, it must operate as a new inducement to the

several States to strengthen the I N I ' > N .

In every light, therefore, fche measure on national ground
appears advisable; bul it still remains to inquire what will be
our duty in respect to the citizens of this State, who are owners
of land in Vermont How far shall we violate their rights, and
how far are we hound to make them compensation?

The claim to a compensation is the thing which has been with
most propriety urged by the counsel for the petitioners. Let us,
however, examine its nature and foundation.

r.ut, liefore I enter into this examination, I shall repeat an
observation which I made on a former occasion. Whatever
obligations there may be on the part of the State cannot be
increased by acceding to the measure proposed. If Vermont is
not irretrievably lost to this State, the duty of protection which
it owes to individuals, obliges it to employ the common strength
to reinstate them in their rights. If it is irretrievably lost, no
rights capable of being rendered effective will be sacrificed; of
course, no obligation to making a recompense will exist

But the truth is, the present bill, so far from surrendering the
rights of individuals, puts things in the only train in which they
will ever have an opportunity of giving them validity. The
third clause of the ninth article of the Confederation expressly
declares that all controversies aboul the right of soil between the
citizens of different States, shall be decided by a federal court.
The counsel for the petitioners tells as that his clients doubt the
operation of this clause, but as he gives us no reason for the
doubt, I shall only say that the terms of it appear to me char and
explicit.

I have no doubt that the petitioners would be entitled to a

388 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 30.

federal court ; and though that court would not decide in such a
question like the tribunals of New York, but upon general princi-
ples of natural and political right, I should confidently expect
that all equitable claims of our citizens would have their full effect.

It is, however, further observed on this head, that the expense
of such court would exceed the abilities of individuals, and could
only be compassed by the resources of sovereign States.

If this suggestion should be admitted to be true, (though I
think the expense is greatly overrated,) yet surely it would be
more reasonable to ask the State for its assistance in procuring a
federal court to obtain justice to the petitioners, than to ask it to
undertake a ruinous war for that purpose. The difference in
expense would not bear a comparison. Indeed, the first would
be a trifling object to the State, while the last would exceed its
abilities, and perhaps end in its disgrace.

But if the bill even contained no provision for obtaining jus-
tice to the petitioners, I should hold that the State would not be
under a strict obligation to recompense them for their losses.
The distinction I would lay down upon the subject is this : If
a government voluntarily bargains away the rights, or disposes
of the property of its citizens, in their enjoyment, possession or
power, it is bound to make compensation for the thing of which
it hath deprived them ; but if they are actually dispossessed of
those rights, or that property, by the casualties of war, or a revo-
lution, the State, if the public good requires it, may abandom
them to the loss without being obliged to make reparation. The
author quoted by the counsel for the petitioners, has in view the
case of a voluntary disposition of the property of citizens in the
power of the State ; and his doctrine is unquestionably just, but
it does not apply to the case of an actual dispossession by any of
those events in which nations have no choice. In wars be-
tween States, the sovereign is never supposed to be bound
to make good the losses which the subject sustains by the cap-
tures or ravages of the enemy, though they should amount to
the destruction of his whole property ; and yet nothing can be
more agreeable to natural equity than that those who happen to
be the unlucky victims of the war should be indemnified by the

JEt. 30.] NEW- YORK 1. 1:<; i s i. a t r K i:. .".s0

community. But, in practice, such a principle would be found
attended with endless difficulties and inconveniences; and there-
fore the reverse of it has been adopted aa a general rule The
individual sufferer, however, might with greal color of justice,

suv i" the irovNiiiirnt, \Vh\ did you make peace withoul stipu-
lating a reparation for the damage done to your citizens ? If'it
was uecessary for the public good to sacrifice my interests, I have
a righl to a public compensation for my losses.

Though this case may. upon a superficial view, appear dissi-
milar to the one tinder consideration, yel the principle upon
examination will be found as applicable to the one as to the
other. The true reason is, thai the resources ol' nations are not
adequate to the reparation of such extensive losses as those
which are commonly occasioned by wars and revolutions ; and it
would therefore be contrary to the general good of society to
establish it as a rule that there is a strict obligation to repay such
losses. It is better that there should be individual sufferers than
to admit a rule which would fetter the operations of government
and distress the affairs of the community.

Generosity and policy may, in particular instances, dictate
such compensation. Sometimes they have been made by nations,
but much oftener omitted. The propriety of doing the one or
the other must depend on circumstances in which the ability of
the public will always be a primary consideration.

I think, sir, 1 have by this time gone through all the argu-
ments that have been brought against the bill, and I hope satis-
factorily refuted tlcm.

I shall say a little in answer to the observations drawn from
the examples of Roman magnanimity. Neither the manners nor
the genius of Koine are suited to the republic or to the age we
live in. All her maxims and habits were military; her govern-
ment was constituted for war. < hirs is unfit for it; and our situ-
ation still less than our Constitution, invites us to emulate the
conduct of le , or to attempt a display of unprofitable heroism.

One more observation will conclude what I have to say.
The present situation of our national affairs appeals to me pecu-
liarly critical. I know not what may be the result of the disor-

390 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 30.

dered state of our Government. I am, therefore, the more solici-
tous to guard against danger from abroad. Gentlemen who view
our public affairs in the same light in which they present them-
selves to my mind, will, I trust, vote with me upon the present
occasion. Those, on the contrary, who think all is well — who
suppose our Government is full of energy, our credit high, and
trade and finances flourishing — will probably see no room for
any anxiety about the matter, and may be disposed to leave Ver-
mont in its present state. If the bill should fail I hope they will
never have occasion to regret the opportunity they have lost.

As to the petitioners, I shall only say, that I have no "reason
to doubt the purity of the motives with which they are actuated.
With many of them I am too well acquainted to permit me to
entertain any unfavorable impression of their conduct; but,
however their opinion of their own rights or interests may have
misled them in estimating the merits of the question before the
committee, I trust we shall be cautious how we suffer our judg-
ment of a national question to be biassed or misguided by the
speciousness of the arguments, or appearances on which their op-
position is supported.

REPEAL OF ALL ACTS INCONSISTENT WITH THE TREATY..

An act to amend an act entitled " An act relative to debts due
to persons within the enemy's lines, and another act entitled
An act to explain and amend the act entitled An act relative
to debts due to persons within the enemy's lines " April 20

1787.

Speech on the passage of this Act.

1787.

Mr. Hamilton expressed great uneasiness that any opposition
should be made to this bill ; particularly as this State was individ-
ually interested therein. He felt greater regret, from a conviction
in his own mind, on this occasion, that the bill should be objected

Mt. 30.] NEW- YORK LEGISLATURE. 391

is there was no1 a single law in existence in thisState, in direct
contravcntii.il of the treaty of peace. Ee urged the committee
to consenl to the passing of the bill, from the consideration that
the State of New-York was the only State to gain any thing by
a strict adherence to the treaty. There was no other State in
the Union that had so much to expect from it. The restoration
of tlu- western posts, was an object of more than a £100,000 per
annum. Great Britain, he said, held those posts, on the plea that
the United States have not fulfilled the treaty, and which we
have strong assurances she will relinquish, on the fulfilment of
our engagements with her. But how far Great Britain might be
sincere in her declaration was unknown; indeed he doubted it
himself. But while he doubted the sincerity of Great Britain,
he could not but be of opinion that it was the duty of this State
to enact a law for the repeal of all laws which may be against
the said treaty, as by doing away all exceptions, she would be
reduced to a crisis. She would be obliged to show to the world
whether she was in earnest or not, and whether she will sacri-
iiec her honor and reputation to her interest. With respect to
the bill, as it was drafted in conformity to the recommendation
of Congress, he viewed it as a wise and a salutary measure, one
calculated to meet the approbation of the different States, and
most likely to answer the end proposed. Were it possible to
exrMuine an intricate maze of laws, and to determine which of
them, or what parts of laws, w^ere opposed to the treaty, it still
might not have the intended effect, as different parties would
have the judging of this matter. What one should say was a
law not inconsistent with the peace, another might say was so;
and there would be no end, no derision of the business. Even
some of the States might view laws in a different manner. The
only way to comply with the treaty, was to make a general and
unexceptionable repeal. Congress, with an eye to this, had pro-
posed a general law, from which the one before them was a copy.
He thought it must be obvious to every member of the com-
mittee, that as there was no law in direct opposition to the treaty,
no difficulty could arise from passing the bill.

S. >me gentlemen, he observed, were apprehensive that this

392 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

bill would restore the confiscated estates, &c. This he did not
admit. However, if thej were so disposed they might add a
proviso to prevent it. He had written one, which any of the
gentlemen might move, if they thought it necessary; in his
opinion, it was not.

The treaty only provided that no future confiscations should
take place ; and that Congress should earnestly recommend a res-
toration of property. But there was nothing obligatory in this.

If this State should not come into the measure, would it not
be a very good plea for the other States to favor their own citi-
zens, and say, " Why should we do this, when New- York, the
most interested of any of the States, refuses to adopt it ? and
shall we suffer this imputation when, in fact, we have no laws
in existence that militate against the treaty? He stated the
great disadvantages that our merchants experienced from the
western posts being in the hands of the British, and asked if it
was good policy to let them remain so.

It had been said, that the Judges would have too much
power ; — this was a misapprehension. He stated the powers of
the judges with great clearness and precision. He insisted that
their powers would be the same, whether this law was passed or
not. For, as all treaties were known by the Constitution as the
laws of the land, so must the judges act on the same, any law to
the contrary notwithstanding.

Cicero, the great Eoman orator and lawyer, lays it down as a
rule, that when two laws clash, that which relates to the most
important matters ought to be preferred ? If this rule prevails,
who can doubt what would be the conduct of the judges, should
any laws exist inconsistent with the treaty of peace ? But it
would be impolitic to leave them to the dilemma, either of infring-
ing the treaty to enforce the particular laws of the State, or to ex-
plain away the laws of the State to give effect to the treaty.

He declared that the full operation of the bill would be no
more than merely to declare the treaty the law of the land. And
that the judges, viewing it as such, shall do away all laws that
may appear in direct contravention of it. Treaties were known
constitutionally to be the law of the land, and why be afraid to

Bis. so.] FEDERAL CONVENTION. 398

leave the interpretation of those laws to the judges? The Con-
stitution knows them as the interpreters of the law. Be asked
if there was any member of the committee who would be wil-
ling to see the firsl treaty of peace ever made by this country
violated. This be did do1 believe. Ee could nol think that
any member on thai Boor barbored Buch sentiments.

Ilr was in hopes the committee would agree with him in sen-
timent, and give a proof of their attachmenl to our national en-
gagements by passing the bill, which would do awaj cep-
(don of the British court.

FEDEEAL CONVENTION.

PROPOSITIONS FOR A CONSTITUTION OF GOVERNMENT.

By Hamilton, 1787.

I. The supreme legislative power of the United States of
America to be vested in two distinct bodies of men; the one to
be called the Assembly, the other the Senate; who together shall
form the legislature of the United States, with power to pass all
laws whatsoever, subject to the negativi hereafter mentioned.

I I. The Assembly to consist of persons elected by i!« people, to
serve for three years.

I I I. The Senate to consisl of persons elected to serve 'luring
good behavior. Their election to bemade by electors chosen for
that purpose by the people, [n order to this the States to be
divided into election districts. ( >n the death, removal, or resigna-
tion of any Senator, bis place to be filled out of the district from
which be fame.

IV. The supreme executive authority of the United States
to be vested in a Governor, to be elected to serve during good be-
havior. Eis election to be made by electors chosen by
chosen by the people, in the election districts aforesaid; or by
electors chosen for that purpose by the respective legislatures —
provided that if an election be not made, within a limited time,

394 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 30.

the President of the Senate shall be the Governor. The Gov-
ernor to have a negative npon all laws about to be passed — and
(to have) the execution of all laws passed — (to be the commander-
in-chief of the land and naval forces and of the militia of the
United States) — to have the entire direction of war when author-
ized or began — to have, with the advice and approbation of the
Senate, the power of making all treaties — to have the appoint-
ment of the Iieads or chief officers of the departments of finance
war, and foreign affairs — to have the nomination of all other offi-
cers (ambassadors to foreign nations included), subject to the ap-
probation or rejection of the Senate' — to have the power of
pardoning all offences but treason, which he shall not pardon
without the approbation of the Senate.

V. On the death, resignation, or removal of the Governor,
his authorities to be exercised by the President of the Senate
(until a successor be appointed).

VI. The Senate to have the sole power of declaring war — the
power of advising and approving all treaties — the power of ap-
proving or rejecting all appointments of officers, except the
heads or chiefs of the departments of finance, war, and foreign
affairs.

VII. The supreme judicial authority of the United States to
be vested in twelve Judges, to hold their offices during good be-
havior, with adequate and permanent salaries. This court to have
original jurisdiction in all causes of capture and an appellate
jurisdiction (from the courts of the several States) in all causes in
which the revenues of the General Government or the citizens of
foreign nations are concerned.

VIII. The Legislature of the United States to have power to
institute courts in each State for the determination of all causes
of capture and of all matters relating to their revenues, or in
which the citizens of foreign nations are concerned.

IX. The Governor, Senators, and all officers of the United
States to be liable to impeachment for mal and corrupt conduct,
and upon conviction to be removed from office, and disqualified
for holding any place of trust or profit. All impeachments to
be tried by a court, to consist of the judges of the Supreme

jEt. 30.] FEDERAL CONVENTION. 395

Court, chief or senior judge of the superior court of law of each
State — provided thai such judge bold his place during good be-
havior and have a permanenl salary .

X. All laws of the particular States contrary to the Constitu-
tion or laws of the United States to be utterly void. And the
better to prevenl such laws being passed the Governor or Presi-
dent of each State shall b* appointed by the General Governnv nt,
and shall have a negative upon the laws about to be passed in the
State of which he is Governor or President.

X T. No State to have any forces, land or naval — and the
militia of all the States to be under the sole and exclusive direction
of the United States, the officers of which to be appointed and
commissioned by them.

CONSTITUTION OF GOVERNMENT BY THE PEOPLE OF TIIE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

First Draft of Hamilton, 1787.

The people of the United States of America do ordain and
establish this Constitution for the government of themselves and
their posterity.

Article I.

5 . 1. The legislative power shall be vested in two distinct
bodies of men, one to be called the Assembly, the other the
Senate, subjecl to the negative hereinafter mentioned.

v . 'J. The executive power, with the qualifications herein-
after specified, shall be vested in a President of the United
Stutes.

Sec. 3. The supreme judicial authority, except in the c:
otherwise provided for in this Constitution, shall be vested in a
court, to be called the SUPREME COUBT, to consist of not less
than six. nor more than twelve judges.

396 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 30.

Article II.

Sec. 1. The Assembly shall consist of persons to be called
Eepresentatives, who shall be chosen, except in the first instance,
by the free male citizens and inhabitants of the several States
comprehended in the Union, all of whom, of the age of twenty-
one years and upwards, shall be entitled to an equal vote.

Sec. 2. But the first Assembly shall be chosen in the manner
prescribed in the last Article, and shall consist of one hundred
members, of whom New Hampshire shall have five, Massachu-
setts thirteen, Ehode Island two, Connecticut seven, New- York
nine, New Jersey six, Pennsylvania twelve, Delaware two, Mary-
land eight, Virginia sixteen, North Carolina eight, South Caro-
lina eight, Georgia four.

Sec. 3. The Legislature shall provide for the future elections
of representatives, apportioning them in each State, from time to
time, as nearly as may be to the number of persons described in
the 4th Section of the 7th Article, so as that the whole number
of representatives shall never be less than one hundred, nor more
than hundred. There shall be a census taken for this pur-

pose within three years after the first meeting of the Legislature,
and within every successive period of ten years. The term for
which representatives shall be elected shall be determined by the
Legislature, but shall not exceed three years. There shall be a
general election at least once in three years, and the time of ser-
vice of all the members in each Assembly shall begin (except in
filling vacancies) on the same day, and shall always end on the
same day.

Sec. 4. Forty members shall make a house sufficient to pro-
ceed to business ; but this number may be increased by the
Legislature, yet so as never to exceed a majority of the whole
number of representatives.

Sec. 5. The Assembly shall choose its President and other
officers, shall judge of the qualifications and elections of its own
members, shall punish them for improper conduct in their capa-
city of representatives, not extending to life or limb, and shall
exclusively possess the power of impeachment, except in the case

jEt. 30.] FEDERAL CONVENTION 397

of the Presidenl of the United States; bul do impeachmenl of a
member of the Senate shall be by less than two-thirds of the
representatives present.

5 . 6. Representatives may vote by proxy, but do represent-
ative present shal] be proxy for more than one who is absent.

Sec. 7. Bills for raising revenue, and bills for appropriating
moneys for the snppoii of fleets and armies, and for paying the
salaries of the officers of government, shal] originate in the As-
sembly, but may be altered and amended by the Senate.

Sec. 8. The acceptance of an office under the 1'nited States
by a representative, shall vacate his seat in the Assembly.

Article III.

Sec. 1. The Senate shall consist of persons to be chosen, ex-
cept in the first instance, by electors elected for thai purpose by
the citizens and inhabitants of the several States comprehended
in the Onion, who shall have in their own right, or in the right
of their wives, an estate in land for not less than life, or a term
of years, whereof at the time of giving their votes there shall be
at least fourteen years unexpired.

Sec. 2. But the full Senate shall be chosen in the manner pre.
scribed in the last Article, and shall consist of forty members, to
be called Senators, of whom New Eampshire shall have ,

Massachusetts , Ehode Island (Connecticut , New-
York , New Jer- , Pennsylvania . Delaware
, Maryland , Virginia , North Carolina ,
South Carolina , Georg

S .3. The Legislature shall provide for the future elections
of Senators; for which purpose the States respectively, which
have more than one Senator, .-lull be divided into convenient

nets to which the Senators shall be apportioned. A State
having but one Senator shall be itself a district. On the death,

gnation, or removal from office of a Senator, his place shall
be supplied by a new election in the district from which became.
Upon each election there shall not be less than six nor more than
twelve electors chosen in a district.

398 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

Sec. 4. The number of Senators shall never be less than forty,
nor shall any State, if the same shall not hereafter be divided,
ever have less than the number allotted to it in the second Sec-
tion of this Article ; but the Legislature may increase the whole
number of Senators, in the same proportion to the whole number
of representatives as forty is to one hundred, and such increase,
beyond the present number, shall be apportioned to the respective
States in a ratio to the respective numbers of their represen-
tatives.

Sec. 5. If States shall be divided, or if a new arrangement of
the boundaries of two or more States shall take place, the Legis-
lature shall apportion the number of Senators (in elections suc-
ceeding such division or arrangement) to which the constituent
parts were entitled according to the change of situation, having
regard to the number of persons described in the 4th Section of
the 7th Article.

Sec. 6. The Senators shall hold their places, during good
behavior, removable only by conviction, on impeachment for
some crime or misdemeanor. They shall continue to exercise
their offices when impeached, until a conviction shall take place.
Sixteen Senators attending in person, shall be sufficient to make
a house to transact business ; but the Legislature may increase
this number, yet so as never to exceed a majority of the whole
number of Senators. The Senators may vote by proxy, but no
Senator who is present shall be proxy for more than two who
are absent.

Sec. 7. The Senate shall choose its President and other
officers ; shall judge of the qualifications and elections of its
members ; and shall punish them for improper conduct in their
capacity of Senators ; but such punishment shall not extend to
life or limb, nor to expulsion. In the absence of their President
they may choose a temporary President. The President shall
only have a casting vote when the House is equally divided.

Sec. 8. The Senate shall exclusively possess the power of
declaring war. No treaty shall be made without their advice
and consent ; which shall also be necessary to the appointment
of all officers, except such for which a different provision is
made in this Constitution.

JEt. 30. J FEDERAL CONVENTION. 399

ArtICI.i: IV.

Sec. 1. The President of the United States of America
(except in the first instance) shall be elected in the manner fol-
lowing:

The judges of the Supreme Court shall, within sixty days
after a vacancy shall happen, cause public notice to 1"' given in
each State of such vacancy, appointing therein three several
days, for the several purposes following, to wit — a day for com-
mencing the election of electors for the purposes hereinafter
specified, to be called the first electors, which clay shall be not
than forty nor more than sixty days after the day of the
publication of the notice in each State ; another day for the
meeting of the electors, not less than forty nor more than
ninety days from the day for commencing their election. An-
other day for the meeting of electors, to be chosen by the first
electors, for the purpose hereinafter specified, and to be called
the second electors, which day shall be not less than forty nor
more than sixty days after the day for the meeting of the first
elector-.

s . •_'. After notice of a vacancy shall have been given,
there -hall be chosen in each State a number of persons, as the
first electors in the preceding Section mentioned, equal to the
whole number of the representatives and Senators of such State,
in the Legislature of the United States; which elector.- shall be
chosen by the citizens of such State, having an estate of inherit-
ance or for three lives in land, or a clear personal of the
value of one thousand Spanish milled dollars of the present
standard.

x . 8. These first electors shall meet in their respective
States at the time appointed, at our place, and shall proceed to
vote by 1 'allot for a President, who shall not be one of their own
number, a the L J.-lature, upon experiment, should here-

after direct otherwise. They shall cause two lists to be mad.' of
the name or names of the person or persons voted for, which
they, or the major part of them, shall sign and certify. They
shall then proceed each to nominate individually, openly, in the

400 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 30.

presence of the others, two persons, as for second electors, and
out of the persons who shall have the four highest numbers of
nominations ; they shall afterwards, by ballot, by plurality of
votes, choose two who shall be the second electors, to each of
whom shall be delivered one of the lists, before-mentioned. These
second electors shall not be any of the persons voted for as
President. A copy of the same list, signed and certified in like
manner, shall be transmitted by the first electors, to the seat of
the government of the United States, under a sealed cover,
directed to the President of the Assembly, which, after the
meeting of the second electors shall be opened, for the inspection
of the two houses of the Legislature.

Sec. 4. These second electors shall meet precisely on the
day appointed, and not on another day, at one place. The
chief justice of the Supreme Court, or if there be no chief jus-
tice, the judge junior in office, in such court, or if there be no
one judge junior in office, some other judge of that court, by the
choice of the rest of the judges, or of a majority of them, shall
attend at the same place, and shall preside at the meeting,
but shall have no vote. Two thirds of the whole number
of the electors shall constitute a sufficient meeting for the ex-
ecution of their trust. At this meeting, the lists delivered
to the respective electors, shall be produced and inspected,
and if there be any person who has a majority of the whole
number of the votes given by the first electors, he shall be the
President of the United States ; but if there be no such person,
the second electors so met shall proceed to vote by ballot, for
one of the persons, named in the lists, who shall have the three
highest numbers of the votes of the first electors ; and if upon
the first, or any succeeding ballot, on the day of the meeting,
either of those persons shall have a number of votes, equal to a
majority of the whole number of second electors chosen, he
shall be the President. But if no such choice be made, on the
day appointed for the meeting, either by reason of the non-
attendance of the second electors, or their not agreeing, or any
other matter, the person having the greatest number of votes
of the first electors shall be the President.

JEt. 30.] FEDERAL CONVENTION. 401

•N ,5. It' it- should happen thai the chief justice or some
other judge of the Supreme Court, Bhould no1 attend in due
time, the Becond electors shall proceed to the execution of their

trust without him.

j . 6. [f the judges should neglect to cause the notice re-
quired by the first section of this article to be given within the
time therein limited, they may, nevertheless, cause it to be
afterwards given; bu1 their neglect, if wilful, is hereby declared
to be an offence, for which they may be impeached, and if con-
victed, they shall be punished as in other cases of conviction on
impeachment

S>r. 7. The Legislature shall, by permanent laws, provide
su«h further regulations as may be necessary for the more or-
derly election of the President, not contravening the provisions
herein contained.

Sec. 8. The President, before he shall enter upon the execu-
tion of his office, shall take an oath or affirmation, faithfully to
execute the same, and to the utmost of his judgment and power
to protect the rights of the people, and preserve the Constitu-
tion inviolate. This oath or affirmation shall be administered
by the President of the Senate, for the time being, in the pre-
sence of both houses of the Legislature.

x . 9. The Senate and the Assembly shall always convene
in session on the day appointed for the meeting of the second
electors, and shall continue sitting till the Presidenl take the
oath or affirmation of 'office. lie shall hold his office during
good behavior, removable only by conviction upon an impeach-
incut foT some crime or misdemeanor.

Sec. 10. The President, at the beginning of every meeting of
the Legislature, ->»>\i as they shall be ready to proceed to
business, shall convene them together at the place when; the
Senate shall sit, and shall communicate to them all such matters
as may be necessary for their information, or as may reqi
their consideration. Ee may, by message, during the session,
communicate all other matters which may appear to him proper.
He may, whenever in his opinion the public business shall
quire it, convene the Senate and Assembly, or either of them,
b 26

402 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 30.

and may prorogue them for a time, not exceeding forty days at
one prorogation ; and if they should disagree about their ad-
journment, he may adjourn them to such time as he shall think
proper. He shall have a right to negative all bills, resolutions,
or acts of the two houses of the Legislature, about to be passed
into laws. He shall take care that the laws be faithfully exe-
cuted. He shall be the Commander-in-Chief of the army and
navy of the United States and of the militia within the several
States, and shall have the direction of war, when commenced ;
but he shall not take the actual command in the field of an army,
without the consent of the Senate and Assembly. All treaties, con-
ventions, and agreements with foreign nations, shall be made by
him, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. He
shall have the appointment of the principal or chief officer of
each of the departments of war, naval affairs, finances, and for-
eign affairs ; and shall have the nomination, and, by and with
the consent of the Senate, the appointment of all other officers
to be appointed under the authority of the United States, ex-
cept such for whom different provision is made by this Consti-
tution ; and provided, that this shall not be construed to prevent
the Legislature from appointing, by name, in their laws, persons
to special and particular trusts, created in such laws ; nor shall
be construed to prevent principals in office, merely ministerial,
from constituting deputies. In the recess of the Senate he may
fill vacancies in offices, by appointments, to continue in force
until the end of the next session of the Senate ; and he shall
commission all officers. He shall have power to pardon all
offences except treason, for which he may grant reprieves, until
the opinion of the Senate and Assembly can be had, and with
their concurrence, may pardon the same.

Sec. 11. He shall receive a fixed compensation for his ser-
vices, to be paid to him at stated times, and not to be increased or
diminished during his continuance in office.

Sec. 12. If he depart out of the United States without the
consent of the Senate and Assembly, he shall thereby abdicate
his office.

Sec. 13. He may be impeached for any crime or misde-

jEt. 30.] FEDERAL CONVENTION. 403

meanor by the two houses of the Legislature, two-thirds of each
house concurring; and if com icted, shall be removed from <>llice.
Ee may be afterwards tried and punished in the ordinary course
of law. Bis impeachmenl shall operate as a suspension from
oilier until the determination thereof

> . 14. The President »>f tlir Senate shall be Vice-President
of the I'nited States. On the death, resignation, impeachment,
removal from office, or absence from the United States, of the
Presidenl thereof, the Vice-President shall exercise all the powers
by this ('(institution vested in the President, until another shall
be appointed, or until he shall return within the United States, if
his absence was with the consent of the Senate and Assembly.

Article V.

Sec. 1. There shall be a Chief Justice of the Supreme Court,
and, together with the other Judges thereof, shall hold their
offices during good behavior, removable only by conviction on
impeachment for some crime or misdemeanor. Each Judge
shall have a competent salary, to be paid to him aj: Btated times,
and not to be diminished during his continuance in office.

The Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction in all
causes, in which the United States shall be a party; in all con-
troversies between the United States and a particular State, or
between two or more States, except such as relate to a claim of
territory between the United States and one or more States,
which shall be determined in the mode prescribed in the Sixth
Article; in all eases atVeeting foreign ministers, consuls, and
agents; and an appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and feet, in
all eases which shall concern the citizens of foreign nations, in all
questions between the citizens of different States, and in all
others in which the fundamental rights of this Constitution are
involved, subject to such exception- as are herein contained, and
to such regulations as the Legislature shall provide.

The Judges of all Courts which may be constituted l>y the
Legislature, shad also hold their places during good behavior,
removable only by conviction on impeachment for some crime

404 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^Gt. 30.

or misdemeanor ; and shall have competent salaries, to be paid
at stated times, and not to be diminished during their continuance
in office; but nothing herein contained shall be construed to
prevent the Legislature from abolishing such Courts themselves.
All crimes, except upon impeachment, shall be tried by a jury
of twelve men; and if thej shall have been committed within
any State, shall be tried within such State. And all civil causes
arising under this Constitution of the like kind with those which
have been heretofore triable by jury in the respective States,
shall in like manner be tried by jury, unless in special cases the
Legislature shall think proper to make different provision, to
which provision the concurrence of two-thirds of both houses
shall be necessary.

Impeachments of the President and Vice-President of the
U. S., members of the Senate, the Governors and Presidents of
the several States, the principal or chief officers of the departments
enumerated in the Tenth Section of the Fourth Article, ambas-
sadors, and other like public ministers, the judges of the Su-
preme Court, generals and admirals of the navy, shall be tried
by a Court to consist of the Judges of the Supreme Court, and
the Chief Justice, or First or Senior Judge of the Superior
Court of Law in each State, of whom twelve shall constitute a
Court. A majority of the Judges present may convict. All
other persons shall be tried on impeachment, by a Court to con-
sist of the Judges of the Supreme Court, and sis Senators drawn
by lot ; a majority of whom may convict. Impeachments shall
clearly specify the particular offence for which the party accused
is to be tried ; and judgment on conviction upon the trial thereof,
shall be either a removal from office singly, or removal from
office and disqualification for holding any future office or place
of trust. But no judgment on impeachment shall prevent prose-
cution and punishment in the ordinary course of law, provided
that no judge, concerned in such conviction, shall sit as judge on
the second trial. The Legislature may remove the disabilities
incurred by conviction on impeachment.

Ex. 30.] V I ; 1 ) I : I! A I, CONV E NTION. 405

Art. VI.

Controversies about the right of territory between the United
States and particular States, shall l>e determined by a court to
be constituted in manner following. The State or States claiming
in opposition to the United States, as parties, shall nominate a
number of persons equal to double the number of the Judges of
the Supreme Court, for the time being, of whom none shall be
citizens by birth of the States which are parties, nor inhabitants
thereof, when nominated, and of whom not more than two shall
have their actual residence in one State. Out of the persons so
nominated, the Senate shall elect one-half, who, together with
the Judges of the Supreme Court, shall form the court. Two-
thirds of the whole number may hear and determine the contro-
versy by plurality of voices. The States concerned, may, at
their option, claim a decision by the Supreme Court only. All
the members of the court hereby instituted shall, prior to the
healing of the cause, take an oath impartially, and according
to the best of their judgments and consciences, to hear and deter-
mine the controversy.

Article VII.

Sec. 1. The Legislature of the United States shall have
power to pass all laws which they shall judge necessary to the
common defence and safety, and to the general welfare of the
Union. But no bill, resolution, or act of the Senate and Assem-
bly, shall have the force of a law until it shall have received the
assent of the President, or of the Vice-President when exercising
the powers of the President ; and if such assent shall not have
been given within ten days after such bill, resolution, or other
act shall have been presented for that purpose, the same shall not
be a law. No bill, resolution, or other act, not assented to, shall
be revived in the same session of the Legislature. The mode of
signifying such assent shall be by signing the bill, act, or resolu-
tion, and returning it so signed to either house of the U
lature.

406 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^Et. 30.

Sec. 2. The enacting style of all laws shall be : " Be it enacted
by the people of the United States of America."

Sec. 3. No bill of attainder shall be passed, nor any ex post
facto law ; nor shall any title of nobility be granted by the United
States or by either of them ; nor shall any person holding an office
or place of trust under the United States, without the permission
of the Legislature accept any present, emolument, office, or
title from a foreign prince or state. Nor shall any religious sect,
or denomination, or religious test for any office or place, be ever
established by law.

Sec. 4. Taxes on lands, houses, and other real estate, and capi-
tation taxes, shall be proportioned in each State by the whole
number of free persons, except Indians not taxed, and by three
fifths of all other persons.

Sec. 5. The two houses of the Legislature may by joint ballot
appoint a Treasurer of the United States. Neither house (in the
session of both houses), without the consent of the other shall ad-
journ for more than three days at a time. The Senators and Eepre-
sentatives in attending, going to and coming from the session of
their respective houses, shall be privileged from arrest except for
crimes and breaches of the peace. The place of meeting shall
always be at the seat of Government which shall be fixed by law.
Sec 6. The laws of the United States and the treaties which
have been made under the articles of the Confederation, and
which shall be made under this Constitution, shall be the supreme
law of the land, and shall be so construed by the Courts of the
several States.

Sec. 7. The Legislature shall convene at least once in each
year, which, unless otherwise provided for by law, shall be the
first Monday in December.

Sec. 8. The members of the two houses of the Legislature shall
receive a reasonable compensation for their services, to be paid out
of the treasury of the United States, and ascertained by law. The
law for making such provision shall be passed, with the concurrence
of the first Assembly, and shall extend to succeeding Assemblies ;
and no succeeding Assembly shall concur in an alteration of such
provision so as to increase its own compensation ; but there shall
be always a law in existence for making such provision.

Mr. 30.] FEDERAL CONVENTION. 407

Article VIII.

Sec. 1. The Governor or President of each State shall be
appointed under the authority of the United States, and shall

haw a right to negative all laws about to be passed in the State
of which he shall be Governor or President, subjeel to such
qualifications and regulations as the Legislature of the United

States shall prescribe. lie shall in other respects have the same
powers only which the Constitution of the State does or shall
allow its Governor or President, except as to the appointment
of officers of the militia.

Sec. 2. Each Governor or President of a State shall hold his
office until a successor be actually appointed, unless he die or
resign or be removed from office by conviction on impeach-
ment. There shall be no appointment of such Governor or Pre-
sident in the recess of the Senate.

The Governors and Presidents of the several States at the
time of the ratification of this Constitution, shall continue in
office in the same manner and with the same powers as if they
had been appointed pursuant to the first section of this article.

The officers of the Militia in the several States may be ap-
pointed under the authority of the U. S; the Legislature whereof
may authorize the Governors or Presidents of States to make
such appointments, with such restrictions as they shall think
proper.

Article IX.

Sec. 1. No person shall be eligible to the office of President
of the United States unless he be now a citizen of one of the
States, or hereafter be born a citizen of the United States.

.V"-. 'J.. No person shall be eligible asa Senator or Repr< sentative
unless at the time of his election he be a citizen and inhabitant
of the State in which he is chosen; provided that he shall not
be deemed to be disqualified by a temporary absence from the
State.

Sec. 3. No person entitled by this Constitution to elect

408 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 30.

or to be elected President of the United States, or a Senator or
^Representative in the Legislature thereof, shall be disqualified but
by the conviction of some offence for which the law shall have
previously ordained the punishment of disqualification. But the
Legislature may by law provide that persons holding offices
under the United States, or either of them, shall not be elioible
to a place in the Assembly or Senate, and shall be, during their
continuance in office, suspended from sitting in the Senate.

Sec. 4. No person having an office or place of trust under the
United States shall, without permission of the Legislature accept
any present, emolument, office, or title from any foreign prince
or state.

Sec. 5. The citizens of each State shall be entitled to the
rights, privileges, and immunities of citizens in every other
State ; and full faith and credit shall be given in each State to
the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of another.

Sec. 6. Fugitives from justice from one State who shall be
found in another, shall be delivered up on the application of the
State from which they fled.

Sec. 7. No new State shall be erected within the limits of
another, or by the junction of two or more, without the concur-
rent consent of the Legislatures of the United States and of the
States concerned. The Legislature of the United States may ad-
mit new States into the Union.

Sec. 8. The United States are hereby declared to be bound to
guarantee to each State a republican form of government, and to
protect each State as well against domestic violence as foreign
invasion.

Sec. 9. All treaties, contracts, and engagements of the United
States of America, under the articles of Confederation and per-
petual Union, shall have equal validity under this Constitution.

Sec. 10. No State shall enter into a treaty, alliance, or con-
tract, with another, or with a foreign power, without the consent
of the United States.

Sec. 11. The members of the Legislature of the United States,
and of each State, and all officers, executive and judicial, of the
one and of the other, shall take an oath or affirmation to support
the Constitution of the United States.

JEr. 30.] FEDERAL CONVENTION. 409

x . 12. This c 1. .listituii.m may receive Buch alterations and
amendments as may be proposed by the legislature of the I uited
States, with the concurrence of two-thirds of the members of
both houses, ami ratified by the legislatures of, or by conventions
of deputies chosen by the people in, two-thirds of the Sti
composing the Union.

Article X.

This Constitution shall be submitted to the consideration of
Conventions in the several States, the members whereof shall be
chosen by the people of such States respectively under the direc-
tion of their respective legislatures. Each. Convention which
shall ratify the same, shall appoint the first Representatives and
Senators from such State according to the rule prescribed in the
section of the article. The Representatives so appointed
shall continue in office for one year only. Each Convention so
ratifying shall give notice thereof to the Congress of the United
States, transmitting at the same time a list of the Representa-
tives and Senators chosen. When the Constitution shall have
been duly ratified, Congress shall give notice of a day and place
for the meeting of the Senators and Representatives from the
several States; and when these, or a majority of them, shall
have assembled, according to such notice, they shall by joint bal-
lot, by plurality of votes, elect a President of the United States;
and the Constitution thus organized shall be carried into effect.

BRIEF OF SPEECH ON SUBMITTING HIS FLAN OF CONSTITUTION.

Introduction,

I. Importance of the occasion.
11. A Bolid plan, withoul regard to temporary opinions.

III. If an ineffeetual plan be again proposed, it will beget despair,

and no government will grow out of consent.

IV. There seem to be but three lines of conduct.

410 HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[Mr. 30.

I. A league offensive, treaty of commerce, and apportionment

of the public debt.
II. An amendment of the present Confederation, by adding
such powers as the public mind seems nearest being
matured to grant.
III. The forming a new government to pervade the whole, with
decisive powers ; in short, with complete sovereignty.
Last seems to be the prevailing sentiment.
I. Its practicability to be examined.

Immense extent unfavorable to representation.
Vast expense.
Double sets of officers.
Difficulty of judging of local circumstances.
Distance has a physical effect on men's minds.
Difficulty of drawing proper characters from home.
Execution of laws, feeble at a distance from governmen1>-
particularly in the collection of revenue.
Sentiment of obedience — )
opinion. j

I. Objections to the present Confederation.

Intrusts the great interests of the nation to hands incapa-
ble of managing them.
All matters in which foreigners are concerned.
The care of the public peace— debts.
Power of treaty, without power of execution.
Common defence, without power to raise troops— have a

fleet — raise money.
Power to contract debts, without the power to pay.
These great interests of the State must be well managed,

or the public prosperity must be the victim.
Legislates upon communities.

Where the legislatures are to act, they will deliberate.
Io ask money, not to collect it, and by an unjust mea-
sure.

No sanction ! !
Amendment of Confederation according to present ideas.
1. Difficult, because not agreed upon any thing. Ex— Im-
post.

jEt. 30.] FEDERAL CONVENTION. 411

' 'ommerce — differenl theories.
To ascertain the practicability of this, let us examine the
principles of civil obedience.

Supports of Government.

I. Interest to support it.
II. Opinion of utility and necessity.

III. Habitual sense of obligation.

IV. Force.

V. Influence.

I. Interest — particular and general interests.

Esprit de corps.

Vox populi, Vox Dei.
II. Opinion of utility and necessity.

First will decrease with the growth of the States.

Necessity.
This does not apply to Federal Government.
This may dissolve, and yet the order of the community

continue.
Anarchy not a necessary consequence.

III. Habitual sense of obligation.

This results from administration of private justice.
Demand of service or money odious.

IV. Force — of two kinds.

Coercion of laws — Coercion of arms.
First does not exist — and the last useless.
Attempt to use it, a war between the States.
Knivign aid.

Delinquency not confined to one.
V. Influence —

1. From municipal jurisdiction.

2. Appointment of officers.

3. Military jurisdiction.

4. Fiscal jurisdiction.

All these now reside in (the) particular States.
Their governments are the chief sources of honor and
emolument.

412 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

AMBITION — AVARICE.

To effect any thing, passions must be turned towards the Gen-
eral Government.

Present Confederation cannot be amended, unless the most
important powers be given to Congress, constituted as they are.

This would be liable to all (the) objections against any form
of general government, with the addition of the want of checks.

Perpetual effort in each member.

Influence of individuals in office to excite jealousy and
clamor — State leaders.

Experience corresponds.

Grecian republics.

Demosthenes says — Athens seventy-three years — Lacedasmon
twenty -seven — Thebans after battle of Leuctra.

Phocions — consecrated ground — Philip, &c.

Germanic empire.

Charlemagne and his successors.

Diet — recesses.

Electors now seven, excluding others.

Swiss Cantons.

Two diets.

Opposite alliances.

Berne — Lucerne.

To strengthen the Federal Government, powers too great
must be given to a single hand.

League offensive and defensive, &c.

Particular governments might exert themselves, &c.

But liable to usual vieissi(£wdes.)

Internal peace affected.

Proximity of situation — natural enemies.

Partial confederacies from unequal extent.

Power inspires ambition.

Weakness begets jealousy.

Western territory.

Objn.— Genius of republics pacific.

Answer. Jealousy of commerce as well as jealousy of power,
begets war.

jEt. 30.] FEDERAL CONVENTION. U8

Sparta — Athens — Thebes — Rome — Carthage -Venice— Ban-
seatic League.

England as many popular as royal wars.

Lewis the XIV. — Austria — Bourbons — William and Anne.

Wars depend upon trifling circumstances.

\Vh« 'iv Duchess of Marlborough's glove.

Foreign conquest.

Pisinrinbrniienl — Poland.

Foreign influence.

Distractions sel afloat vicious humors.

Standing armies by dissensions.

Domestic factions — Montesquieu.

Moii'irrlnj in Southern States.

JU^gf Federal rights — Fisheries.

Wars —destructive.

Loss of advantages.

Foreign nations would not respect our rights nor grant us
reciprocity.

Would reduce us to a passive commerce.

Fisheries -navigation of the lakes — Mississippi — Fleet.

The genera] government must, in this case, not only have a
strong soul, but strong organs by which thai soul is to ope]

Eere I -iiall give my sentiments of the best form of govern-
ment— not as a thing attainable by us, but as a model which we
oughl to approach as near as possible.

British constitution best form.

Aristotle — ( licero— Montesquieu — Neckar.

Society naturally divides itself into two political divisions —
id the many, who have distinct interests.

If government in the hands of thr /<'»•, they will tyrannize
over the many.

If i ■ hands of the many, they will tyrannize over the

few. It ought to be in the hands of both; and they should be
separated.

This separation must be permanent

I; iresentation alone will not do.

Demi . - will grin-rally prevail.

414 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 30.

And if separated, they will need a mutual check.

This check is a monarch.

Each principle ought to exist in full force, or it ■will not
answer its end.

The democracy must be derived immediately from the people.

The aristocracy ought to be entirely separated ; their power
should be permanent, and they should have the caritas liberorum.

They should be so circumstanced that they can have no
interest in a change — as to have an effectual weight in the Con-
stitution.

Their duration should be the earnest of wisdom and stability.

'Tis essential there should be a permanent will in a com-
munity.

Vox populi, vox Dei.

Source of government — the unreasonableness of the people —
separate interests — debtors and creditors, &c.

There ought to be a principle in government capable of re-
sisting the popular current.

No periodical duration will come up to this.

This will always imply hopes and fears.

Creature and Creator.

Popular assemblies governed by a few individuals.

These individuals seeing their dissolution approach, will
sacrifice.

The principle of representation will influence.

The most popular branch will acquire an influence over the
other.

The other may check in ordinary cases, in which there is no
strong public passion ; but it will not in cases where there is —
the cases in which such a principle is most necessary.

[JSP^ Suppose duration seven years, and rotation.
One-seventh will have only one year to serve.

One-seventh ■ two years.

One-seventh- . three years.

One-seventh — four years.

A majority will look to a dissolution in four years by instal-
ments.

jEt. 30.] FEDERAL CONVENTION. 415

)

The monarch must hare proportional strength. lie ought to
be hereditary, and to have so much power, that it will not be his
interest to risk much to acquire more.

The advantage of a monarch is this — he is above corruption —
he must always intend, in respect to foreign nations, the true
interest and glory of the people.

Republics liable to foreign corruption and intrigue — Holland
— Athens.

Effect of the British government. •

A rigorous execution of the laws — and a vigorous defence

of the people, will result.
Better chance for a good administration.
It is said a republican government does not admit a vigor-
ous execution.

It is therefore bad; for the goodness of a government con-
sists in a vigorous execution.

The principle chiefly intended to be established is this — that
there must be a permanent ivill.

Gentlemen say we need to be rescued from the democracy.
But what the means proposed ?

A democratic assembly is to be checked by a democratic
senate, and both these by a democratic chief magistrate.

The end will not be answered — the means will not be equal
to the object.

It will, therefore, be feeble and inefficient.

Becapitulaiion.

I. Impossible to secure the union by any modification of
federal government.

II. League, offensive and defensive, full of certain evils and
greater dangers.

III. General government, very difficult, if not impracticable,
liable to various objections.

What is to be done ?

Answer. Balance inconveniences and dangers, and choose
that which seems to have the fewest objections.

416 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

Expense admits of this answer. The expense of the State
governments will be proportionably diminished.

Interference of officers not so great, because the objects of
the general government and the particular ones will not be the
same — Finance — Administration of private justice. Energy will
not be wanting in essential points, because the administration of
private justice will be carried home to men's doors by the par-
ticular governments.

And the revenues may be collected from imposts, excises,
&c. If necessary to go further, the general government may
make use of the particular governments.

The attendance of members near the seat of government may
be had in the lower branch.

And the upper branch may be so constructed as to induce
the attendance of members from any part.

But this proves that the government must be so constituted
as to offer strong motives.

In short, to interest all the passions of individuals.

And turn them into that channel.

Hamilton observed, " This question has already been con-
sidered in several points of view. We are now forming a re-
publican government. Real liberty is neither found in despotism,
nor in the extremes of democracy, but in moderate governments.
Those who mean to form a solid republican government, ought
to proceed to the confines of another government* As long as

* It will be remarked that a similar opinion was expressed by Jefferson a few
months before. Writing from Paris, February 28, 1787, to La Fayette, then about
to take part in the deliberations of France, he observed, "I wish you success in
your meeting (the assembled des notables). I should form better hopes of it if
it were divided into two houses instead of seven; keeping the good model of your
neighboring country before your eyes, you may get on step by step towards a good eon-
stitutwn, Though that model is not perfect, yet, as it would unite more suffrages than
any new one which could be proposed, it is better to make that the object, If every ad-
vance is to be purchased by fining the royal coders with gold, it will be gold well em-
ployed,"—2 Jeff. Works, p. 101.

yEt. 30.] FFDFRAL CONVENTION. 417

offices are open to all men, ami no constitutional rank is established,
it is pure republicanism. But if we incUru too mw/i to <L mormnj,
ive shall soon shoot into a monarchy. The difference of property is
already great among us. Commerce and industry will still in-
crease the disparity. Your government must meet this state of
things, or combinations will in process of time undermine your
system. What was the tribunitial power of Home ? It was insti-
tuted by the plebeians as a guard against the patricians. But
was this a sulliei.Mit eheek ? No! The only distinction which
remained at Rome was, at last, between the rich and the poor.
The gentleman from Connecticut forgets that the democratic
body is already secure in a representation. As to Connecticut,
what were the little objects of their government before the revo-
lution ? Colonial concerns merely. They ought now to act on
a more extended scale ; and dare they do this ? Dare they col-
lect the taxes and requisitions of Congress? Such a government
may do well if they do not tax, and this is precisely their situa-
tion."

Ilamilton, in the progress of this discussion, remarked —
"The course of my experience in human affairs might, perhaps,
restrain me from saying much on this subject. I shall, how-
ever, give utterance to some of the observations I have made
during the course of this debate. The gentleman from Mary-
land has been at great pains to establish positions which are not
denied. Many of them, as drawn from the best writers on gov-
ernment, are become self-evident principles. But I doubt the
propriety of his application of those principles in the present
discussion. Be deduces from them the necessity that States en-
tering into a confederacy must retain the equality of votes. This
position canm.t be correct Facts contradict it The parliament
of Great Britain asserted a supremacy over the whole empire,
and the celebrated Judge Blackstone labors for the legality of it,
although many parts were not represented. This parliamentary
B 27

418 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

power we opposed as contrary to our colonial rights. With that
exception, throughout that whole empire it is submitted to.

" May not the smaller and greater States so modify their re-
spective rights as to establish the general interest of the whole
without adhering to the right of equality ? Strict representation
is not observed in any of the State governments. The Senate
of New- York are chosen by persons of certain qualifications to
the exclusion of others.

" The question after all is — Is it our interest, in modifying
this general government, to sacrifice individual rights to the pre-
servation of the rights of an artificial being, called States ? There
can be no truer principle than this — That every individual of the
community at large has an equal right to the protection of government.
If, therefore, three States contain a majority of the inhabitants of
America, ought they to be governed by a minority ? "Would
the inhabitants of the great States ever submit to this ? If
the smaller States maintain this principle through a love of
power, will not the larger, from the same motives, be equally
tenacious to preserve their power ? They are to surrender their
rights — for what ? For the preservation of an artificial being.
We propose a free government. Can it be so, if partial distinc-
tions are maintained ?

" I agree with the gentleman from Delaware, that if the State
governments are to act in the general government, it affords the
strongest reason for exclusion. In the State of New- York five
counties form a majority of representatives, and yet the govern-
ment is in no danger, because the laws have a general operation.
The small States exaggerate their danger, and on this ground
contend for an undue proportion of power. But their danger is
increased if the larger States will not submit to it. Where will
they form new alliances for their support ? Will they do this with
foreign powers? Foreigners are jealous of our increasing great-
ness, and would rejoice in our distractions. Those who have had
opportunities of conversing with foreigners respecting sovereigns
in Europe, have discovered in them an anxiety for the preserva-
tion of our democratic governments, probably for no other rea-
son but to keep us weak. Unless your government is respectable,

jet. 30.] P i : i ) i : R a i , con V i ■: N TI O N. H '.)

igners will invade your rights — ami to maintain tranquillity,
it must be respectable. Kvm to observe neutrality you m
have a strong government

"I confess our present situation is critical. We have just
finished a war which has established our independence, and
Loaded us with a heavy debt. We have still every motive to
unite for our common defence. Our people arc disposed to hi
a good government, but this disposition may not always prevail.
It is difficult to amend confederations : it has been attempted in
vain, ami it is perhaps a miracle that we are now met We
musl therefore improve the opportunity, and render the present
system as perfect as possible. Their good sense, and, above
all, the necessity of their affairs, will induce the people to
adopt it."

IMPRESSIONS AS TO THE NEW CONSTITUTION.

1787.

" The new consitution has in favor of its success these circum-
stances: A very great weight of influence of the persons who
framed it, particularly in the universal popularity of General
Washington. The good-will of the commercial interest through-
out the States, which will give all its efforts to the establishment
of a government capable of regulating, protecting, and extending
the commerce of the Union. The good- will of most men of
property in the several States, who wish a government of the
Union able to protect them against domestic violence, and the
depredations which the democratic spirit is apt to make on
property; and who are besides anxious for the respectability of
the nation. The hopes of tin- creditors of the United States, that
a general government possessing the means of doing it, will pay
the debt of the Union. A Btrong belief in the people at large of
the insufficiency of the present confederation to preserve the
existence of the Union, and of the necessity of the Union to their

420 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

safety and prosperity ; of course, a strong desire of a change, and
a predisposition to receive well the propositions of the con-
vention.

"Against its success is to be put, the dissent of two or three
important men in the convention, who will think their charac-
ters pledged to defeat the plan ; the influence of many inconsider-
able men in possession of considerable offices under the State
governments, who will fear a diminution of their consequence,
power, and emolument, by the establishment of the general
government, and who can hope for nothing there ; the influence
of some considerable men in office possessed of talents and popu-
larity, who, partly from the same motives, and partly from a
desire of playing a part in a convulsion for their own aggrandize-
ment, will oppose the quiet adoption of the new government;
(some considerable men out of office, from motives of ambition,
may be disposed to act the same part.) Add to these causes the
disinclination of the people to taxes, and of course to a strong
government ; the opposition of all men much in debt, who will
not wish to see a government established, one object of which is
to restrain the means of cheating creditors. The democratical
jealousy of the people, which may be alarmed at the appearance
of institutions that may seem calculated to place the power of
the community in few hands, and to raise a few individuals to
stations of great pre-eminence ; and the influence of some foreign
powers, who, from different motives, will not wish to see an
energetic government established throughout the States.

"In this view of the subject, it is difficult to form any judg-
ment whether the plan will be adopted or rejected. It must be
essentially matter of conjecture. The present appearances and
all other circumstances considered, the probability seems to be on
the side of its adoption.

" But the causes operating against its adoption are power-
ful, and there will be nothing astonishing in the contrary.

" If it do not finally obtain, it is probable the discussion of
the question will beget such struggles, animosities, and heats in
the community, that this circumstance, conspiring with the real
necessity of an essential change in our present situation, will pro-

JEt.ZO.] new constitution. 421

duce civil war. Should this happen, whatever parties prevail, it
is probable governments very differenl from the present in their
principles, will be established. A dismemberment of the I'm ion,
and monarchies in differenl portions of it, may be expected. It
may, however, happen thai no civil war will take place, but
several republican confederacies be established between different
combinations of the particular States.

"A reunion with Ghreat Britain, from universal disgust at a
state of commotion, is not impossible, though not much to be
feared. The most plausible shape of such a business would be,
the establishment of a son of the present monarch in the supreme
government of this country, with a family compact.

"If the government be adopted, it is probable General Wash-
ington will be the President of the United States. This will
ensure a wise choice of men to administer the government, and
a good administration. A good, administration will conciliate
the confidence and affection of the people, and. perhaps enable
the iment to acquire more consistency than the proposed

constitution seems to promise for so great a country. It may
then triumph altogether over the State governments, and reduce
them to an entire subordination, dividing the larger States into
smaller districts. The organs of the general government may
also acquire additional strength.

• [f this should not be the case, in the course of a few years,
it is probable that the contests about the boundaries of power
between the particular governments and the general govern-
ment, and the momentum of the larger States in such contests
will produce a dissolution of the Union. This, after all, seems
to be the most likely result.

"Bu1 it is almost arrogance, in so complicated a subject,
depending so entirely on the incalculable fluctuations of the
human passions, to attempt even a conjecture about the event.

"It will be eight or nine months before any certain judgment
can be formed respecting the adoption of the plan."'

422 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 30.

COMMENTS ON THE OPPOSITION TO THE CONSTITUTION.

1787.

Mr. Hamilton, in his absence from New- York, on public duty
(with how much propriety and temper his fellow-citizens must
decide), has been attacked, by name, as the writer of a publica-
tion printed in Mr. Childs' paper of the 21st of July last. In
fixing that publication upon him, there is certainly no mistake ;
nor did he ever mean to be concealed.

He left his name with the printer, to be disclosed to any per-
son who should apply for it on the part of the Governor, with
instructions to make that circumstance known; which was ac-
cordingly done. The fairness of this conduct speaks for itself.
The citizens of the State have too much good sense to be de-
ceived into an opinion that it could have been dictated by a
wanton disposition to calumniate a meritorious character. They
must and will consider it as an honorable an cL open attempt to
unmask, what appeared to the writer, the pernicious intrigue of
a man high in office, to preserve power and emolument to him-
self, at the expense of the union, the peace, and the happiness of
America.

To say that it would have been derogatory to the first magis-
trate of the State to enter the lists in a newspaper, with an
" anonymous scribbler," is a miserable subterfuge. Though Mr.
Hamilton, to avoid the appearance of ostentation, did not put his
name to that piece, yet, having left it with the printer to be com-
municated to the party concerned, there is no pretence to con-
sider it in the light of an anonymous publication. If the matter
alleged had been false, the Governor had his choice of two modes
of vindicating himself from the assertion : one, by giving a sim-
ple and direct denial to it in the public prints ; the other, by
having a personal explanation on the subject with the writer.
Neither of these modes could have wounded his dignity. The
first is practised in most governments where public opinion is
respected. A short paragraph to the following effect would have
answered the purpose.

JEt. 30.] NEW CONSTITUTION. t23

"The printer of this paper is authorized to assure the public,
thai his Excellency the Governor never made use of the expres-
sions attributed to him in a publication contained in Mr. Ohilds'
paper of the 21st July, nor of any others of similar import."
This would have tin-own it upon Mr. Hamilton to bring forward
to public view the sources of his information, ami the proofs of
his charge. And this, he has too much regard tor his reputation,
not to have been prepared to do. This he is still ready to do,

whenever BUCh a denial shall appear.

The Governor, if he had any objection to this mode of pro-
ding, mighl have had recourse to the other, that of a personal
explanation with the writer. Mr. Hamilton would have con-
ceived himself bound, by the principles of candor and honor, to
d( sclare on what grounds he had proceeded ; and, if he could have
been satisfied they were erroneous, to retract the imputations
founded upon them. Would it have impaired the dignity of the
first magistrate of a republic to have had such an explanation
with any reputable citizen ? Would it have impaired his dignity
to have had such an explanation with a citizen, who is at this
moment acting in an important and delicate trust by the appoint-
ment of the Legislature of the State?

Mr. Hamilton freely submits to the judgment of his fellow-
citizens, whether there was any thing in the manner of his ani-
madversions that preclude such an explanation. They were
strong and pointed; but he flatters himself they were free from
indecorum. He states the charge as matter of report ; and makes
his observations hypothetically, even seeming to admit a possi-
bility of misrepresentation. As he was not himself present at
the conversation, bul spoke from the information of those who
were, he could not with propriety have expressed himself in more
positive term-;. As he was speaking of an officer of the first rank
in the State, he was disposed to use as much moderation in the
manner of exhibiting his misconduct a.- \\a.- consistent with that

explicitness and energy which were necessary to place it in its
proper light.

These remarks, while they explain Mr. Hamilton's moth
will serve t<> refute the cavil respecting his doubt of the truth of

424 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 30.

the fact alleged by him. He now declares, that from the nature
of his information, he had no doubt of the kind ; and that, since
the publication, he has understood from different partisans of the
Governor, that he did not deny the expressions attributed to
him to be in substance true, with some minute and unessential
distinctions.

It is insinuated, that the circulation of the fact is calculated
to produce the evil pretended to be guarded against, by diffusing
through the community a knowledge of the Governor's senti-
ments.

This remark admits of an obvious answer. If his Excellency
was predetermined to oppose the measures of the Convention, as
his conduct indicates, he would take care himself to propagate
his sentiments in the manner in which it could be done with most
effect. This appears to have been his practice. It was therefore
proper that the antidote should go along with the poison ; and
that the community should be apprised that he was capable of
forming such a predetermination, before, it can be presumed, he
had any knowledge of the measures themselves on which to
found his judgment.

A cry is attempted to be raised against the publication of Air.
Hamilton, as if it were an invasion of the right of the first magis-
trate of the State to deliver his sentiments on a matter of public
concern. The fallacy of this artifice will easily be detected.
The Governor has an undoubted right to give his sentiments
freely on every public measure. Under proper circumstances it
will be always his duty to do it. But every right may be abused
by a wrong exercise of it. Even the constitutional powers vested
in him may be so employed as to subject him justly, not only to
censure, but to impeachment. The only question, then, is
whether he has, in the present instance, used his right properly
or improperly, whether it became him, by anticipation, to en-
deavor to prejudice the community against the " unknown and
undetermined measures of a body, to which the general voice of
the Union had delegated the important trust of concerting and
proposing a plan for reforming the national Constitution ?" Let
every man answer this question to himself.

JEt. 30.] NEW CON ST I 'IT 'I' ION. 125

The apologists for the Governor, in the intemperate ardor of
their zeal tin- his character, seem to forgei another rightv<
precious to the citizens of a free country, that of examining the
condud of their rulers, Then have an undoubted right, within

the limits of the Constitution, to speak and to act their

sentiments; bu1 the citizen has an equal righl to discuss the i
priety of these sentiments, or of the maimer of advancing or
supporting them. To attempt to abridge this lasl right, by ren-
dering the exercise of it odious, is to attempt to abridge a privi-
lege, the mosl essential of any t<> the security of the people.
The laws, which afford sufficienl protection to the tnaj
will punish the excess of this privilege; within the hounds they
allow, it is the bulwark of public liberty.

But observations of either kind might mutually have been
spared. There is do danger that the rights of a man, at the
head of the Government (possessing all the influence to be
derived from long continuance in office, the disposition of lucra-
tive places and consurrvmab talents for popularity), can be injured
by the voice of a private individual. There is as little danger
that the spirit of the pe,.ple of this country will ever tolerate
attempts to seduce, to awe, or to clamor them out of the privi-
lege of bringing the conduct of men in power to the bar of pub-
lic condemnation.

To all the acclamation and abuse with which the Republican
winds up his performance and labors to mislead the public atl
tion from its trtu object, but one answer will be given. It is
trick of the party to traduce every independent man opposed to
their views, the better to preserve to themselves that power and

Consequence to which they have no other title than their arts of
deceiving the people.

Mi-. Hamilton can, however, defy all their malevolent i:
nuity to produce ;> single instance of his conduct, public or pri-
vate, inconsistent with the strictest rules of integrity and honor —
a single instance that may even denominate him selfish or Lnl
ested- -a single instance in which he has either "forfeited" the
confidence of the people or failed of obtaining any pi-oof of their
favor for which he has been a candidate. It would be ingratil

426 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 31.

in him not to acknowledge that the marks of their confidence
have greatly exceeded his deserts.

RESOLUTION IN CONGRESS.

June 3, 1788.

Resolved, That in their opinion it is expedient that the Dis-
trict of Kentucke be erected into an independent State, and they
therefore submit the following resolution — That the address and
resolutions from the District of Kentucke, with the acts of the
Legislature of Virginia therein specified, be referred to a com-
mittee of (a member from each State), to prepare and report a
proper act for acceding to the independence of the said District
of Kentucke, and for receiving the same into the Union as a
member thereof, in a mode conformable to the articles of con-
federation.

CONVENTION OF NEW-YORK.

SPEECH ON THE COMPROMISES OF THE CONSTITUTION.

POUGHKEEPSIE, 1788.

Mr Chairman :*

The honorable member who spoke yesterday, went into an
explanation of a variety of circumstances to prove the expedi-
ency of a change in our National Government, and the necessity
of a firm Union : at the same time he described the great advan-
tages which this State, in particular, receives from the Confed-

* The reporter of this, and of the preceding and following speeches, observes
— " He thinks an apology due for the imperfect dress in which these arguments are
given to the public. Not long accustomed, he cannot pretend as much accuracy
as might be expected from a more experienced hand."

JEt. 31.] NEW- YORK CONVENTION. 1-7

eracy, and its peculiar weaki when abstracted from the

Union. In - J ■ > i 1 1 •_*- this, he advanced :i variety of arguments
which deserve serious consideration. Gentlemen have this day
come forward to answer him. II'' has been treated as having
wandered in tin' flowery fields of fancy, and attempts have l
made to take off from the minds of the Committee thai sober im-
pression which mighl be expected from his arguments. I b
sir, that observations of this kind are cot thrown oul to casl :i
light air on this importanl subject; or to give any personal bias
on the greal question before as. I will not agree with gentle-
men who trifle with the weaknesses of our country ; and sup]
that they are enumerated to answer a parly purpose, and to ter-
rify with ideal dangers. No; 1 believe these weaknesses to he
real, and pregnant with destruction. Yet, however weak our
country may be, I hope we shall never sacrifice our liberties. If,
therefore, on ;i full ami candid discussion, the proposed System
shall appear to have that tendency, for God's sake, lei us reject
it! But, let us not mistake words for things, noT accepl doubt-
ful surmises as the evidence of truth. Lei us consider the Con-
stitution calmly and dispassionately, and attend to those things
only which merit consideration.

No arguments drawn from embarrassment or inconvenience
ought to prevail upon us to adopt a system of government radi-
cally had: yet it is proper that these arguments, among others,
should he brought into view. In doing this, yesterday, it was
necessary to reflect upon our situation ; to dwell upon the imbe-
cility of our Union; and to consider whether we, State,
could stand alone.

Although I am persuaded this convention will he resolved^to
adopt aothing thai is had : yet I think every prudent man will
consider the merits of the plan in connection with the circum-
stances of our country ; and that a rejection 6f thi I titution

may involve most fatal Consequences. I make these remark

show, that though we ought not to he actuated by unreasonable

fear, Vet we OUght to he prudent.

This daw sir, one gentleman has attempted to answer the
arguments advanced by my honorahle friend; another

428 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 31.

treated him as having wandered from the subject. This being
the case, I trust I shall be equally indulged in reviewing the
remarks which have been made.

Sir, it appears to me extraordinary, that while gentlemen in
one breath acknowledge, that the old Confederation requires many
material amendments, they should, in the next, deny that its de-
fects have been the cause of our political weakness, and the con-
sequent calamities of our country. I cannot but infer from this
that there is still some lurking favorite imagination that this sys-
tem, with corrections, might become a safe and permanent one.
It is proper that we should examine this matter. We contend,
that the radical vice in the old Confederation is that the laws of
the Union apply only to the States in their corporate capacity.
Has not every man who has been in our Legislature experienced
the truth of this position ? It is inseparable from the disposition
of bodies, who have a constitutional power of resistance, to ex-
amine the merits of a law. — This has ever been the case with the
federal requisitions. — In this examination, not being furnished
with those lights which directed the deliberations of the General
Government ; and incapable of embracing the general interests
of the Union, the States have almost uniformly weighed the
requisitions by their own local interests ; and have only executed
them so far as answered their particular convenience or advan-
tage. Hence there have ever been thirteen different bodies to
judge of the measures of Congress — and the operations of govern-
ment have been distracted by their taking different courses.
Those which were to be benefited, have complied with the requi-
sitions ; others have totally disregarded them. Have not all of
us been witnesses to the unhappy embarrassments which resulted
from these proceedings ? Even during the late war, while the
pressure of common danger connected strongly the bond of our
union, and excited to vigorous exertions, we have felt many dis-
tressing effects of the impotent system. How have we seen this
State, though most exposed to the calamities of the war, comply-
ing, in an unexampled manner, with the federal requisitions, and
compelled by the delinquency of others to bear most unusual
burdens ! Of this truth we have the most solemn evidence on

iET. 31.] NEW-YORK CONVENTION. 429

ourrecorda In L779 and 1780, when the State, from the rav-
ages of war, and from her great exertiona to resisl them, became
weak, diatressed, and forlorn, every man avowed the principle we
now contend for; thai our misfortunes, in a great degree, pro-
ceeded from the want of vigor in the Continental Government
These were our sentiments when we did not speculate, but feeL
\\ e Baw our weakness, and found OUKelvea its vietims. Let us
rHleet that this may again, in all probability, be our situation.
This is a weak State, and its relative station is dangerous. Your
capital is accessible by land, and by sea is expoaed to everj dar-
ing invader; and on the northwest you are open to the inroads
of a powerful foreign nation. Indeed this State, from its .situa-
tion, will, in time of war, probably be the theatre of its op-
erations.

Gentlemen have said that the non-compliance of the States
has been occasioned by their aufferinga. This may in part be
true. But has this State been delinquent? Amidst all our dis-
tresses, we have fully complied. If New-York could comply
wholly with the requisitions, is it not to be supposed that the
other States could in part comply? Certainly every State in the
I oion might have executed them in some degree. Bui New
Hampshire, who has not suffered at all, is totally delinquent
North Carolina is totally delinquent. Many others have con-
tributed in a very small proportion; and Pennsylvania am 1 New-
York are the only States which have perfectly discharged their
Federal duty.

From the delinquency of those States which have Buffi

little by the war, we naturally Conclude, that they have made no

efforts; and a knowledge of human nature will teach us, that
their ease and security have ben a principal cause of their want
of exertion. While danger is distant its impression is weak, and
while it affects only our neighbors, we have few motives to pro-
vide againal it. Sir, if we have national objects to puraue, we
must have national revenues. If you make requiaitions and

they are not complied with ; u-),.lt js tl( be done? k has i

well obaerved, that to coerce the States is one of the maddeat
projectathat was ever devised. A failure of compliance will

430 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 31.

never be confined to a single State : this being the case, can we
suppose it wise to hazard a civil war ? Suppose Massachusetts or
any large State should refuse, and Congress should attempt to
compel them ; would they not have influence to procure assist-
ance, especially from those States who are in the same situation
as themselves ? What a picture does this idea present to our
view ! A complying State at war with a non-complying State :
Congress marching the troops of one State into the bosom of
another : this State collecting auxiliaries and forming perhaps a
majority against its Federal head. Here is a nation at war with
itself ! A government that can exist only by the sword ! Every
such war must involve the innocent with the guilty. — This sin-
gle consideration should be sufficient to dispose every peaceable
citizen against such a government.

But can we believe that one State will ever suffer itself to be
used as an instrument of coercion ? It is a dream. It is impos-
sible. We are brought to this dilemma : either a Federal stand-
ing army is to enforce the requisitions, or the Federal Treasury
is left without supplies, and the government without support. —
What is the cure for this great evil ? Nothing, but to enable
the national laws to operate on individuals, in the same manner
as those of the States do. — This is the true reasoning upon the
subject. Gentlemen appear to acknowledge its force ; and yet,
while they yield to the principle, they seem to fear its applica-
tion to this government.

What shall we do ? Shall we take the Old Confederation, as
the basis of a new system ? Can this be the object of gentle-
men ?— Certainly not.— Will any man who entertains a wish
for the safety of his country, trust the sword and the purse
with a single Assembly, organized on principles so defective?
Though we might give to such a government certain powers
with safety, yet, to give them the full and unlimited powers of
taxation and the national forces, would be to establish a despot-
ism ; the definition of which is, a government, in which all power
is concentrated in a single body. To take the Old Confederation,
and fashion it upon these principles, would be establishing a
power which would destroy the liberties of the people.— These

Ar. 81.] NEW. YORE CONVENTION. I.'.l

considerations show clearly thai a government totally different
must be instituted. They bad weighl in the Convention who
formed the new system. It was Been, thai the necessary poi
were too great to betrusted to a Bingle body: they therefore
formed two branches, and divided the powers, thai each m
lh' ;l check upon the other. This was the resull of their wisdom-
and 1 presume thai every reasonable man will agree to it. The
more thia subjecl is explained, the hm.iv clear and convincin
will appear to every member of this body. The fundamental
principle of the < >M Confederation is defective. — We musl totally
eradicate and discard this principle before we can expert
efficient government The gentlemen who have spoken to-day
havetakenup the subject of the ancienl Confederacies: but
their view of them has been extremely partial and erroneo
the fact is, the Bame false and impracticable principle ran through
most of the ancient governments. The first of these govern-
ments that we read of was the Amphyctionio confederacy.
Council which managed the affairs of this league possessed pow-
ers of a similar complexion with those of our presenl Cong]
The same feeble mode of legislation in the head, and th<
power of resistance in the members, prevailed. When a requi-
sition was made, it rarely met a compliance; ami a civil war
the consequence. Those which were attacked called in foreign
aid to protect them; and the ambitious Philip, under the mask

n ally to one, invaded the liberties of each, and finally sub-
verted the whole

The operation of this principle appears in the same light in
the Dutch Republics. They have been obliged to lew taxes by
an armed force. In this confederacy, one large province, by its
superior wealth and influence, is commonly a match for all
rot ; and when they do not comply, the province of Bolland is
obliged to compel them, it is observed that the United Provin-

bave existed a long time; hut they have been constantly the
Bport of their neighbors, and have been supported only by
external pressure of surrounding powers. The policy of Eur
not the policy of their government, has saved them from d
tion. Besides, the powers of the Stadtholder have served

432 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 31.

give an energy to the operations of his government, which is
not to be found in ours. This prince has a vast personal influ-
ence : he has independent revenues : he commands an army of
forty thousand men.

The German confederacy has also been a perpetual source of
wars : — They have a Diet, like our Congress, who have autho-
rity to call for supplies : these calls are never obeyed ; and, in
time of war, the imperial army never takes the field till the
enemy are returning from it. The emperor's Austrian domin-
ions, in which he is an absolute prince, alone enable him to make
head against the common foe. The members of this confederacy
are ever divided and opposed to each other. The king of Prus-
sia is a member ; yet he has been constantly in opposition to the
emperor. Is this a desirable government ?

I might go more particularly into the discussion of examples,
and show that, wherever this fatal principle has prevailed, even
as far back as the Lycian and Achrean leagues, as well as the
Amphyctionic confederacy, it has proved the destruction of the
government. But I think observations of this kind might have
been spared. Had they not been entered into by others, I should
not have taken up so much of the time of the Committee. No
inference can be drawn from these examples, that republics can-
not exist : we only contend that they have hitherto been founded
on false principles. We have shown how they have been con-
ducted, and how they have been destroyed. "Weakness in the
head has produced resistance in the members : this has been the
immediate parent of civil war : auxiliary force has been invited,
and a foreign power has annihilated their liberties and their
name. Thus, Philip subverted the Amphyctionic, and Eome the
Achaean Republic.

We shall do well, Sir, not to deceive ourselves with the
favorable events of the late war. Common danger prevented the
operation of the ruinous principle in its full extent. But since
the peace, we have experienced the evils. We have felt the
poison of the system in its unmingled purity.

Without dwelling any longer on this subject, I shall proceed
to the question immediately before the committee.

jEt. 31.] NEW- YORK CONVENTION. 4.S3

In order that the committee may understand clearly the

principles OB which the general convention acted, 1 think it neces-
sary to explain some preliminary circumstances.

Sir, the natural situation of this country Beems to divide us
interests into different classes. There are navigating and non-
navigating States. The Northern are properly the navigating
States; the Southern appear to possess neither the means nor
die spirit of navigation. This dillerenee in situation naturally
produces a dissimilarity of interests and views respecting foreign
commerce. It was the interest of the Northern States, that there
should be no restraints on their navigation, and that they should
have lull power, by a majority in Congress, to make commercial
regulations in favor of their own, and in restraint of the naviga-
tion of foreigners. The Southern States wished to impose a
restraint on the Northern, by requiring that two-thirds in Con-
gress should be requisite to pass an act in regulation of com-
merce. They were apprehensive that the restraints of a naviga-
tion law would discourage foreigners; and, by obliging them to
employ the shipping of the Northern States, would probably
enhance their freight This being the case, they insisted strenu-
ously on having this provision ingrafted in the Constitution;
and the Northern States were as anxious in opposing it. On
the other hand, the small States, seeing themselves embraced by
the Confederation upon equal terms, wished to retain the advan-
tages which they already possessed. The large States, on the con-
trary, thought it improper that Rhode Island and Delaware
should enjoy an equal suffrage with themselves. From ti
sources a delicate and difficult contesl arose. It became necessary
therefore to compromise, or the convention must have dissolved
without effecting any thing. Would it have' been wise and pru-
dent in that body, in this critical situation, to have deserted
their country? No. Every man who hears me — every wise
man in the United States would have condemned them. The
convention were obliged to appoinl a committee for accommo
tion. In this committee the arrangement was formed as it now
stands, and their report was accepted. It was a delicate point,
and it was necessary thai all parties Bhould be indulged. Gen-

b 28

434 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 31.

tlemen will see, that if there had not been unanimity, nothing
could have been done. For the convention had no power to
establish, but only to recommend a government. Any other
system would have been impracticable. Let a convention be
called to-morrow. Let them meet twenty times — nay, twenty
thousand times — they will have the same difficulties to encounter
— the same clashing interests to reconcile.

But, dismissing these reflections, let us consider how far the
arrangement is in itself entitled to the approbation of this body.
We will examine it upon its own merits.

The first thing objected to, is that clause which allows a
representation for three-fifths of the negroes. Much has been said
of the impropriety of representing men who have no will of their
own. Whether this be reasoning or declamation, I will not pre-
sume to say. It is the unfortunate situation of the Southern
States to have a great part of their population as well as property
in blacks. The regulation complained of was one result of the
spirit of accommodation which governed the convention ; and
without this indulgence no Union could possibly have been
formed. But, sir, considering some peculiar advantages which
we derive from them, it is entirely just that they should be gra-
tified. The Southern States possess certain staples — tobacco,
rice, indigo, &c. — which must be capital objects in treaties of
commerce with foreign nations ; and the advantage which they
necessarily procure in these treaties will be felt throughout all
the States. But the justice of this plan will appear in another
view. The best writers on government have held that represen-
tation should be compounded of persons and property. This
rule has been adopted, as far as it could be, in the Constitution of
New-York. It will, however, be by no means admitted that the
slaves are considered altogether as property. They are men,
though degraded to the condition of slavery. They are persons
known to the municipal laws of the States which they inhabit,
as well as to the laws of nature. But representation and taxa-
tion go together, and one uniform rule ought to apply to both.
Would it be just to compute these slaves in the assessment of
taxes, and discard them from the estimate in the apportionment

jEt.si.] NEW-YORK CONVENTION. t35

of representatives? Would it be jusl to impose a singular bur-
then without conferring some adequate advantage?

Another circumstance oughl to be considered. The rule we
have been speaking of) is a general rule, and applies to all the
States. You have a greal number of people in your State,
which are nol represented at all, and have no voice in your
government. These will be included in the enumeration, not
two-fifths, or three-fifths, but the whole. This proves that the
advantages of the plan are no1 confined to the Southern States,
but extend to other parte of the Union.

I now proceed to consider the objection with regard to the
number of representatives as it now stands. lam persuaded that
the system, in this respect, is on a better looting than the gentle-
men imagine.

It has been asse^|ed thai it will be in the power of Congress
to reduce the number. I acknowledge that there are no direct
words of prohibition. But I contend that the true and genuine
construction of tin' clause gives Cod lo power whatever to

reduce the representation below the number as it now stands.
Although they may limit, they can never diminish the number.
One representative for every thirty thousand inhabitants
as the standard of increase, till by the natural course of popula-
tion, it shall become necessary to limit the ratio. Probably, at
present, were this standard to be immediately applied, tlic repre-
sentation would considerably exceed sixty-five. In three pears,
it would ex< 1 a hundred. If I understand the gentlemen, they

itend that the number may be enlarged, or may not. 1 admit
that this is in the discretion of Congress; and 1 submit to the
committee whether it be nol necessary and proper. Still, 1 insist
that an immediate limitation is not probable ; nor was it in the
contemplation of the convention. But, sir, who will presume to
say to what precise poinl the representation ought to be increased?
This is a matter ><\' opinion; and opinions are vastly different
upon the subject. In Massachusetts, the Assembly consists of
about three hundred; in South Carolina, of nearly one hunch
in New- York, there are sixty-live. It is observed generally that
the number ought to be large. Ieoni'ess it is dillieult for mc

436 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 31.

to say what number may be said to be sufficiently large. On
one band, it ought to be considered that a small number will act
with more facility, system, and decision. On the other, that a
large one may enhance the difficulty of corruption. The Con-
gress is to consist at first of ninety -one members. This, to a
reasonable man, may appear to be as near the proper medium as
any number whatever ; at least, for the present. There is one
source of increase, also, which does not depend upon any con-
structions of the Constitution : it is the creation of new States.
Vermont, Kentucky, and Franklin, will probably soon become
independent. New members of the Union will also be formed
from the unsettled tracts of Western territory. These must be
represented, and will all contribute to swell the federal legisla-
ture. If the whole number in the United States be at present
three millions, as is commonly supposed, Sccording to the ratio
of one for thirty thousand, we shall have, on the first census, a
hundred representatives. In ten years, thirty more will be
added ; and, in twenty-five years, the number will double. Then,
sir, we shall have two hundred, if the increase goes on in the
same proportion. The convention of Massachusetts, who made
the same objection, have fixed upon this number as the point at
which they chose to limit the representation. But can we pro-
nounce with certainty that it will not be expedient to go beyond
this number ? We cannot. Experience alone may determine.
This problem may with more safety be left to the discretion of
the legislature, as it will be the interest of the larger and
increasing States of Massachusetts, New- York, Pennsylvania, &c,
to augment the representation. Only Connecticut, Ehode Island,
Delaware, and Maryland, can be interested in limiting it. We
may, therefore, safely calculate upon a growing representation,
according to the advance of population, and the circumstances of
the country.

The State governments possess inherent advantages, which
will ever give them an influence and ascendency over the Na-
tional government, and will for ever preclude the possibility of
federal encroachments. That their liberties, indeed, can be sub-
verted by the federal head, is repugnant to every rule of political

JBX.B1.] NEW-YORK CONVENTION. \'M

calculation. Is not this arrangemenl then, sir, a nftost wise and
prudent one? Is not the presenl representation fully adequate
to our present exigencies, and sumcienl to answer all the pur-
poses of the Union? I am persuaded that an examination of

the objects of the federal government will allbrd a conclusive
answer.

Many other observations might be made on this subject, bu1
I cannot now pursue them, for 1 feel myself not a little exhaust-
ed; I beg Leave, therefore, to waive for the present the further
discussion of this question.

SPEECH ON THE CONSTITUTION RESUMED.

Mr. Hamilton resumed his argument. "When, said he, I had
the honor to address the committee yesterday, I gave a history
of the circumstances which attended the convention, when form-
ing the plan before you. I endeavored to point out to you the
principles of accommodation on which this arrangement was
made, and to show that the contending interests of the St;
led them to establish the representation as it now stands. In
the second place, I attempted to prove that, in point of number,
the representation would be perfectly secure.

Sir, no man agrees more fully than myself to the main
principle for which the gentlemen contend. I agree that there
should be a broad democratic branch in the national legislature.
But this mutter depends on circumstances. It is impossible, in
the first instance, to be precise and exact with regard to the
number; and it is equally impossible to determine to what point
it may be brought in future to increase it. On this ground, I
am disposed to acquiesce. In my reasonings on the subject of
government, 1 rely more on the interests and the opinions of men,
than upon any speculative parchment provisions whatever. Ihave
found, that constitutions are more or less excellent, as they are more
or less agreeable to the natural operation of things ; lam therefore
disposed not to dwell long on curious speculations, or pay much
attention to modes and forms, but to adopt a system whose
principles have been sanctioned by experience — adapt it to the

438 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 31.

real state of our country, and depend on probable reasonings
for its operation and result. I eontend, that sixty-five and
twenty-six, in two bodies, afford perfect security in the present
state of things; and that the regular progressive enlargement,
which was in the contemplation of the general convention,
will leave not an apprehension of clanger in the most timid and
suspicious mind. It will be the interest of the large States to in-
crease the representation. This will be the standing instruction
to their delegates. But the members of Congress will be in-
terested not to increase the number, as it will diminish their
relative influence. In all the reasoning upon this subject, there
seems to be this fallacy : — They suppose that the representative
wTill have no motive of action, on the one side, but a sense of
duty, or, on the other, but corruption. They do not reflect that
he is to return to the community — that he is dependent on the
will of the people — and that it cannot be his interest to oppose
their wishes. Sir, the general sense of the people will regulate
the conduct of their representatives. I admit that there are ex-
ceptions to this rule. There are certain conjunctures when it
may be necessary and proper to disregard the opinions which
the majority of the people have formed; but, in the general
course of things, the popular views, and even prejudices, will di-
rect the actions of the rulers.

All governments, even the most despotic, depend, in a great
degree, on opinion. In free republics, it is most peculiarly the
case. In these, the will of the people makes the essential princi-
ple of the government, and the laws which control the commu-
nity, receive their tone and spirit from the public wishes. It is
the fortunate situation of our country, that the minds of the
people are exceedingly enlightened and refined. Here, then, we
may expect the laws to be proportionably agreeable to the stand-
ard of a perfect policy, and the wisdom of public measures to
consist with the most intimate conformity between the views of
the representative and his constituent. If the general voice of
the people be for an increase, it undoubtedly must take place.
They have it in their power to instruct their representatives, and
the State Legislatures, which appoint the Senators, may enjoin

jEt. 31.] NEW- YORK CONVENTION. I:'.(.>

it also upon them. If I believed thai the number would remain
at sixty-five, I confess I should give my vote for an amendment,
though in a different form from the one proposed.

The amendment proposes a ratio of one for twenty thousand.
I would ask, by what rale oi reasoning it is determined, that
one man is a better representative for twenty than for thirty
thousand? At present, we nave three millions of people; in
twenty-five years we shall have six millions; and in forty years
•nine millions ; and this is a short period as it relates to the ex-
istence of States. Here, then, according to the ratio of one for
thirty thousand, we shall have, in forty years, three hundred
representatives. If this be true, and if this be a sale representa-
ti< >n, why be dissatisfied ? Why embarrass the Constitution with
amendments that are merely speculative and useless? I agree
with the gentleman, that a very small number might give some
color for suspicion. I acknowledge that ten would be unsafe ;
on the other hand, a thousand would be too numerous. But, I
ask him, why will not ninety-one be an adequate and safe repre-
sentation? This, at present, appears to be the proper medium.
IVsides, the President of the United States will be himself the
representative of the people. From the competition that ever
subsists between the branches of the government, the President
will be induced to protect their rights, whenever they are in-
vaded by either branch. On whatever side we view this subject,
we discover various and powerful cheeks to the encroachments
of Congress. The true and permanent interests of the members
are opposed to corruption. Their number is vastly too large for
easy combination. The rivalship between the houses will for-
ever prove an insuperable obstacle. The people have an obvi-
ous and powerful protection in their own State governments.
Should any thing dangerous be attempted, these bodies of per-
petual observation will be capable of forming and conducting
plans of regular opposition. Can we suppose the people's love
of liberty will not, under the incitement of their Legislative lead-
ers, be roused into resistance, and the madness of tyranny be
extinguished at a blow? Sir, the danger is too distant; it is be-
yond all rational calculations.

440 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 31.

It has been observed, that a pure democracy, if it were prac-
ticable, would be the most perfect government. Experience has
proved, that no position in politics is more false than this. The
ancient democracies, in which the people themselves deliberated,
never possessed one feature of good government. — Their very
character was tyranny; their figure deformity. When they
assembled, the field of debate presented an ungovernable mob,
not only incapable of deliberation, but prepared for every enor-
mity. In these assemblies the enemies of the people brought
forward their plans of ambition systematically. They were
opposed by their enemies of another party ; and it became a
matter of contingency, whether the people subjected themselves
to be led blindly by one tyrant, or by another.

It was remarked yesterday that a numerous representation
was necessary to obtain the confidence of the people. This is
not generally true. The confidence of the people will easily be
gained by a good administration. This is the true touchstone.
I could illustrate the position by a variety of historical examples
both ancient and modern. In Sparta, the Ephori were a body
of magistrates, instituted as a check upon the Senate and repre-
senting the people. They consisted of only five men : but they
were able to protect their rights, and therefore enjoyed their
confidence and attachment. In Eome the people were repre-
sented by three Tribunes, who were afterwards increased to ten.
Every one acquainted with the history of that Republic will re-
collect how powerful a check to the senatorial encroachments this
small body proved ; how unlimited a confidence was placed in
them by the people whose guardians they were ; and to what a
conspicuous station in the government, their influence at length
elevated the plebeians. Massachusetts has three hundred repre-
sentatives; New York has sixty-five. Have the people in this
State less confidence in their representation than the people of
that? Delaware has twenty-one: do the inhabitants of New
York feel a higher confidence than those of Delaware? I have
stated these examples to prove that the position is not just
The popular confidence depends on circumstances very distinct
from considerations of number. Probably the public attach-

Mr. 31.] NEW. YORE CONVENTION. Ill

ment is more strongly secured by a train of prosperous events,
which are tin- result of wise deliberation and of vigorous execu-
tion, and t<> which large bodies are much leas competenl than
small ones. It' the representative conducts with propriety, he
will necessarily enjoy the good will of the constituent. It appears
then, if my reasoning be just, that the clause is perfectly proper,
upon the principles of the gentleman who contends for the
amendment; as there is in it the greatest degree of present
security, and a moral certainty of an increase equal to our
Utmost wishes.

It has been observed that a large representation is necessary
to understand the true interests of the people. This opinion is
by no means true in the extent to which it is carried. I would
ask. why may not a man understand the interests of thirty as
well as of twenty ? The position appears to be based upon the
unfounded presumption, that all the interests of all parts of the
community must be represented. No idea is more erroneous
than this. Only such interests are proper to be represented as
are involved in the powers of the General Government. These
interests come completely under the observation of one, or a i'rw
men; and the recpiisitc information is by no means augmented
in proportion to the increase of number. What are the objects
of the Government ? Commerce, taxation, &c. In order to
comprehend the interests of commerce, is it necessary to know
how wheal is raised, — and in what proportion it is produced in
one district and in another? By no means. Neither is this
species of knowledge necessary in general calculations upon the
subject of taxation. The information necessary for these pur-
poses is that which is open to every intelligent inquirer; and of
which live men may be as perfectly p 1 as fifty. In regal

governments, there are usually particular men to whom the
business of taxation is committed. These men have the forming
of systems of finance, and the regulation of the revenue. I do
not mean to commend this practice. It proves, however, this

point : that a few individuals may he competent to these objects;

and that large cumbers are not necessary to perfection in the
science of taxation. But, granting for a moment, that this

442 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 31.

minute and local knowledge, the gentlemen contend for, is neces-
sary, let us see, if, under the new Constitution, it will not proba-
bly be found in the representation. The natural and proper
mode of holding elections will be to divide the State into districts,
in proportion to the number to be elected. This State will con-
sequently be divided at first into six. One man from each dis-
trict will probably possess all the knowledge the gentlemen can
desire. Are the Senators of this State more ignorant of the
interests of the people, than the Assembly? Have they not
ever enjoyed their confidence as much ? Yet, instead of six dis-
tricts, they are elected in four; and the chance of their being
elected from the smaller divisions of the State consequently
diminished. Their number is but twenty-four ; and their powers
are coextensive with those of the Assembly, and reach objects,
which are most dear to the people — life, liberty, and property.

We hear constantly a great deal which is more calculated to
awake our passions, and create prejudices, than to conduct us to
truth, and teach us our real interests. I do not suppose this to
be the design of gentlemen. Why then are we told so often of
an aristocracy ? For my part, I hardly know the meaning of
this word as it is applied. If all we hear be true, this govern-
ment is really a very bad one. But who are the aristocracy
among us ? Where do we find men elevated to a perpetual rank
among our fellow-citizens ; and possessing powers entirely inde-
pendent of them ? The arguments of the gentlemen only go to
prove that there are men who are rich, men who are poor ; some
who are wise, and others who are not ; that, indeed, every dis-
tinguished man is an aristocrat. Does the new government ren-
der a rich man more eligible than a poor one ? No ! It re-
quires no such qualification. It is bottomed on the broad and
equal principle of your State Constitution.

Sir, if the people have it in their option, to elect their most
meritorious men; is this to be considered an objection? Shall
the Constitution oppose their wishes, and abridge their most in-
valuable privilege? While property continues to be pretty
equally divided, and a considerable share of information per-
vades the community ; the tendency of the people's suffrages,

Mr. 31.] NEW-YORK CONVENTION. 443

will be to elevate merit even from obscurity. As riches incn
and accumulate in Pew hands; as luxury prevails in society;
virtue will be in ;i greater degree considered as only :i graceful
appendage of wealth, and the tendency of things will be to de-

part from the republican standard. This is the real disposition
of human nature; it is what neither the honorable member nor
myself can correct. It is a common misfortune that awaits our
State Constitution, as well as all others.

There is an advantage incidenl to large districts of election,
which perhaps the gentlemen, amidst all their apprehensions of
influence and bribery, have oo1 adverted to. Tn large districts,
the corruption of the electors is much more difficult. Combina-
tions, for the purposes of intrigue, are less easily formed. Fac-
tions and cabals are little known. In a small district, wealth
will have a more complete influence; because the people in the
vicinity of a great man are more immediately his dependents,
and because this influence has fewer objects to act upon. It has
been remarked, that it would be disagreeable to the middle class
of men to go to the Beat of the new government. If this be so,
the difficulty will be enhanced by the gentleman's proposal. If
his argument be true, it proves, that the larger the rep#sentation
is, the less will be your chance of having it filled. But, it ap-
pears to me frivolous to bring forward such arguments as these.
It has answered no other purpose, than to induce me, by way of
reply, to enter into discussions, which I consider as useless, and
not applicable to our subject.

It is a harsh doctrine, that men grow wicked in proportion
as they improve and enlighten their minds. Experience has by
no means justified us in the supposition, that there is more vir-
tue in one class of men than in another. Look through the rich
and the poor of the community; the learned and the ignorant.
Where dors virtue predominate? The difference indeed consists,
not in the quantity, bul kind of vices, which are incidenl to the
various classes; and here the advantage of character belongs to
the wealthy. Their vices are probably more favorable to the
prosperity of the State, than those of the indigent ; and partake
less of moral depravity.

444 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 31.

After all, we must submit to this idea, that the true principle
of a republic is, that the people should choose whom they please
to govern them. Eepresentation is imperfect, in proportion as
the current of popular favor is checked. This great source of free
government, popular election, should be perfectly pure, and the
most unbounded liberty allowed. Where this principle is ad-
hered to; where, in the organization of the government, the
legislative, executive, and judicial branches are rendered dis-
tinct ; where again the legislative is divided into separate
houses, and the operations of each are controlled by various
checks and balances, and above all, by the vigilance and weight
of the State governments ; to talk of tyranny, and the subversion
of our liberties, is to speak the language of enthusiasm. This
balance between the National and State governments ought to be
dwelt on with peculiar attention, as it is of the utmost import-
ance. It forms a double security to the people. If one en-
croaches on their rights, they will find a powerful protection in
the other. Indeed, they will both be prevented from over-pass-
ing their constitutional limits, by a certain rivalship, which will
ever subsist between them. I am persuaded, that a firm union
is as necessary to perpetuate our liberties, as it is to make us re-
spectable ; and experience will probably prove, that the National
government will be as natural a guardian of our freedom, as the
State legislatures themselves.

Suggestions of an extraordinary nature, have been frequently
thrown out in the course of the present political controversy.
It gives me pain to dwell on topics of this kind ; and I wish
they might be dismissed. We have been told, that the old Con-
federation has proved inefficacious, only because intriguing and
powerful men, aiming at a revolution, have been for ever
instigating the people, and rendering them disaffected to it.
This, sir, is a false insinuation.

I will venture to assert, that no combination of designing
men under heaven, will be capable of making a government un-
popular, which is in its principles a wise and good one ; and
vigorous in its operations.

The Confederation was framed amidst the agitation and

A.SI.J NEW- YORK CONVENTION. I I 6

tumult of society. It was composed of unsound materials, put
ether in haste. Men of intelligence discovered the feebleness

of the structure, in tin- firsl stages <>f its existence, bul the great
body of the people, too much engrossed with their di -. t<>

contemplate any bul the immediate causes "l' them, were ignor-
ant of the defects of their Constitution. But, when the dangers
of war were removed, they saw clearly what they had suffered,
and what they had yet to suffer from a feeble form of govern-
ment There was no need of discerning men to convince the
people of their unhappy situation. The complaint was coexten-
sive with the evil, and both were eommon to all classes of the
imunity. We have been told, that the spirit of patriotism
ami love of liberty are almost extinguished among the people,
and that it has become a prevailing doctrine, that republican
principles ought to be hooted out of the world. Sir, I am con-
fident that such remarks as these arc rather occasioned by the
heat of argument, than by a cool conviction of their truth and
justice. As for as my experience has extended, I have heard no
such doctrine, nor have 1 discovered any diminution of regard
for those rights ami liberties, in defence of which, the people
have fought and suffered. There have been, undoubtedly, some
d who have had speculative doubts on the subject ol govern-
ment, but the principles of republicanism are founded on too
firm a basis to be shaken by a few Speculative and skeptical rea-
soned. ( >ur error has been of a very different kind. We have
erred through - of caution, and a zeal false and impractica-

ble. ( >ur councils have been destitute of consistency and stability.
I am flattered with a hope, sir, thai we have now found a cure for

the evils under which we have so long labored. I trust that the

proposed Constitution affords a genuine specimen of Representa-
tive and Republican government; and that it will answer, in an
eminent d' . all the beneficial purposes of society.

446 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 31.

SPEECH ON THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES.

1788.

I am persuaded that I, in my turn, shall be indulged in ad-
dressing the committee. We all, with equal sincerity, profess to
be anxious for the establishment of a Eepublican Government, on
a safe and solid basis. It is the object of the wishes of every
honest man in the United States ; and I presume I shall not be
disbelieved when I declare, that it is an object, of all others, the
nearest and most dear to my own heart. The means of accom-
plishing this great purpose, become the most important study
which can interest mankind. It is our duty to examine all those
means with peculiar attention, and to choose the best and most
effectual. It is our duty to draw from nature, from reason, from
examples, the justest principles of policy, and to pursue and ap-
ply them in the formation of our government. We should con-
template and compare the systems which, in the examination,
come under our view ; distinguish with a careful eye the defects
and excellencies of each, and discarding the former, incorporate
the latter, as far as circumstances will admit, into our Constitu-
tion. If we pursue a different course, and neglect this duty, we
shall probably disappoint the expectations of our country and of
the world.

In the commencement of a revolution, which received its
birth from the usurpations of tyranny, nothing was more natural
than that the public mind should be influenced by an extreme
spirit of jealousy. To resist these encroachments, and to nourish
this spirit, was the great object of all our public and private in-
stitutions. The zeal for liberty became predominant and exces-
sive. In forming our Confederation, this passion alone seemed to
actuate us, and we appear to have had no other view than to se-
cure ourselves from despotism. The object certainly was a valu-
able one, and deserved our utmost attention. But there is
another object, equally important, and which our enthusiasm
rendered us little capable of regarding. I mean a principle of
strength and stability in the organization of our government, and

JEt. 31.] MEW- YORK CONVENTION. i 1-7

vi'jor in its operations. This purpose could cover 1"' accom-
plished l>ut by the establishment of some Belecl body, formed
peculiarly on this principle. There are few positions more de-
monstrable than that, there should he iii e\ ery republic some per-
manent body, to correct the prejudices, cheek the intemperate

- 1 * > 1 1 s . ami regulate the fluctuations of a popular assembly. It
is evidenl that a body instituted for these purposes, musl be so
formed as to exclude as much as possible from its own character,
those infirmities, and that mutability which it is designed to re-
medy. It is, therefore, necessary that it should be small, that it
shonM h«>l<l its authority during a considerable period, and that
it should have such an independence in the exercise of its [low-
ers, as will divest it, as much as possible, of local prejudices. It
should be so formed as to be the centre of political know ledge;
to pursue always a steady line of conduct, and to reduce every
irregular propensity to system. Without this establishmenl we
may make experiments without end, but shall never have an effi-
cient government.

It is an unquestionable truth, that the body of the people in
every country, desire sincerely its prosperity. But it is equally
unquestionable, that they do not possess the discernment and sta-
bility necessary for systematic government. To deny that they
are frequently led into the grossest errors, by misinformation and
passion, would be a flattery which their own good sense must
despise. That branch of administration, especially, which in-
volves our political relation with foreign states, a community
will ever be incompetent to. These truths are not often held up
in public assemblies; but they cannot be unknown to any who
hear me. From these principles, it follows that there ought to
be two distinct bodies in our Government: one which shall be
immediately constituted by, and peculiarly represent the people,
and possess all the popular features; another formed upon the
principles, and for the purposes before explained. Such consid-
erations as these inducec 1 the Convention who formed your State
Constitution, to institute a Senate upon the present plan. The
history of ancient and modem republics hail taught them that
many of the evils whieh those republics suffered, arose from the

448 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

want of a certain balance, and that mutual control indispensable
to a wise administration. They were convinced that popular as-
semblies are frequently misguided by ignorance, by sudden im
pulses, and the intrigues of ambitious men ; and that some firm
barrier against these operations was necessary. They, therefore,
instituted your Senate ; and the benefits we have experienced
have fully justified their conceptions.

What is the tendency of the proposed amendment ? To take
away the stability of government, by depriving the Senate of its
permanency. To make this body subject to the same weakness
and prejudices, which are incident to popular assemblies, and
which it was instituted to correct; to destroy the balance be-
tween them. The amendment will render the senator a slave to
all the capricious humors among the people. It will probably
be here suggested that the Legislatures, not the people, are to
have the power of recall. Without attempting to prove that
the Legislatures must be, in a great degree, the image of the mul-
titude in respect to federal affairs, and that the same prejudices
and factions will prevail, I insist, that in whatever body the
power of recall is vested, the senator will perpetually feel him-
self in such a state of vassalage and dependence, that he never
can possess that firmness which is necessary to the discharge of
his great duty to the Union.

Gentlemen in their reasoning have placed the interests of the
several States and those of the United States in contrast. This
is not a fair view of the subject. They must necessarily be
involved in each other. What we apprehend is, that some sinis-
ter prejudice, or some prevailing passion, may assume the form
of a genuine interest. The influence of these is as powerful as
the most permanent conviction of the public good, and against
this influence we ought to provide. The local interests of a
State ought in every case to give way to the interests of the
Union. For when a sacrifice of one or the other is necessary,
the former becomes only an apparent, partial interest, and should
yield, on the principle that the smaller good ought never to op.
pose the greater one. When you assemble from your several
counties in the Legislature, were every member to be guided

JEt. 31.] NEW -YORK CONVENTION. 449

only by the apparent interest of his county, government would
be impracticable. There must be a perpetual accommodation
ami sacrifice of local advantage to general expediency. But the
spirit of a more popular assembly would rarely be actuated by
this important principle. It is, therefore, absolutely necessary
that the Senate should be so formed as to be unbiassed by false
conceptions of the real interests, or undue, attachment to the ap-
parent good of their several St;

Gentlemen indulge too many unreasonable apprehensions of
danger to the State governments. They seem to suppose, that
the moment you put men into the national council, they become
corrupt and tyrannical, and lose all their affection for their fel-
low-citizens. But can we imagine that the Senators will ever be
so insensible of their own advantage as to sacrifice the genuine
interest of their constituents .' The State governments are es-
sentially necessary to the form and spirit of the general system.
As long, there !'■ are, as Congress have a full conviction of this ne-
cessity, they must, even upon principles purely national, have as
firm an attachment to the one as to the other. This conviction
can never leave them, unless they become madmen. While the
Constitution continues to be read, and its principles known, the
States must, by every rational man, be considered as essential
component pints of the Union; and therefore the idea of sacri-
ficing the former to the latter is totally inadmissible.

The objectors do not advert to the natural strength and re-
sources of the State governments, which will ever give them an
important superiority over the Gi 1 Government. Ifwecom-
pare the nature of their different powers, or the means of popular
influence which each poe . we shall find the advantage en-

tirely on the side of the States. This consideration, important
as it is, seems to have been little attended to. The aggregate
number of representatives throughout the States may be two
thousand. Their personal influence will therefore be propor-
tion ably more extensive than that of one or two hundred nan
in Congress. The State establishments of civil and military offi-
cers of every description, infinitely surpassing in number any
corresponding establishments in the General Government, will

b 29

450 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

create such an extent and complication of attachments as will
ever secure the predilection and support of the people. When-
ever, therefore, Congress shall meditate any infringement of the
State Constitutions, the great body of the people will naturally
take part with their domestic representatives. Can the General
Government withstand such a united opposition ? Will the peo-
ple suffer themselves to be stripped of their privileges ? Will
they suffer their legislatures to be reduced to a shadow and a
name ? The idea is shocking to common sense.

From the circumstances already explained, and many others
which might be mentioned, results a complicated, irresistible
check, which must ever support the existence and importance of
the State governments. The danger, if any exists, flows from
an opposite source. The probable evil is, that the General Go-
vernment will be too dependent on the State legislatures, too
much governed by their prejudices, and too obsequious to their
humors ; that the States, with every power in their hands, will
make encroachments on the national authority till the Union is
weakened and dissolved.

Every member must have been struck with an observation of
a gentleman from Albany. Do what you will, he says, local pre-
judices and opinions will go into the government. What ! shall
we then form a Constitution to cherish and strengthen these pre-
judices ? Shall we confirm the distemper instead of remedying
it ? It is undeniable that there must be a control somewhere.
Either the general interest is to control the particular interests,
or the contrary. If the former, then certainly the Government
ought to be so framed as to render the power of control efficient
to all intents and purposes ; if the latter, a striking absurdity
follows. The controlling powers must be as numerous as the
varying interests, and the operations of government must there-
fore cease. For the moment you accommodate these differing
interests, which is the only way to set the government in motion,
you establish a general controlling power. Thus, whatever con-
stitutional provisions are made to the contrary, every Govern-
ment will be at last driven to the necessity of subjecting the
partial to the universal interest. The gentlemen ought always,

JEt. 31.] NEW- YORK CONVENTION. 451

in their reasoning, to distinguish between the real, genuine good
of a State, and the opinions and prejudices which may prevail
respecting it. The latter may be opposed to the general good,
and consequently oughl to be sacrificed : the former is bo involved
in it thai it never. can he sacrified. Sir, the main design of the
convention, in forming the Senate, was to prevent lliictnations
and cabala With this view, they made that body small, and to
exist for a considerable period. Have they carried this design
too far ? The Senators are to serve six years. This is only two
year.- linger than the Senators of this State hold their places.
One-third of the members are to go out every two years ; and in
six the whole body may be changed. Prior to the lievolution,
the representatives in the several colonies were elected for differ-
ent periods ; for three years, for seven years, &c. Were those
bodies ever considered as incapable of representing the people,
or as too independent of them ? There is one circumstance
which will have a tendency to increase the dependence of the
Senators on the States, in proportion to the duration of their
appointments. As the State legislatures are in continual fluc-
tuation, the Senator will have more attachments to form, and
consequently a greater ditliculty of maintaining his place, than
one of shorter duration. He will therefore be more cautious and
industrious to suit his conduct to the wishes of his constituents.

AY hen you take a view of all the circumstances which have
been recited, you will certainly see, that the Senators will con-
stantly look up to the State governments, with an eye of depend-
ence and affection. If they are ambitious to continue in office,
they will make every prudent arrangement for this purpose, and
whatever maybe their private sentiments of politics, they will
be convinced, that the surest means of obtaining a re-election,
will be a uniform attachment to the interests of their several
States.

In support of this amendment it has been observed that the
power of recall, under the old Government, has never been exer-
cised. There is no reasoning from this. The experience of a i
years, under peculiar circumstances, can allbrd no probable
security that it never will be carried into execution, with un-

452 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 31.

happy effects. A seat in Congress has been less an object of
ambition ; and the arts of intrigue, consequently, have been less
practised. Indeed, it has been difficult to find men, who were
willing to suffer the mortifications to which so feeble a Govern-
ment, and so dependent a station exposed them.

Sir, if you consider but a moment the purposes, for which the
Senate was instituted, and the nature of the business which
they are to transact, you will see the necessity of giving them
duration. They, together with the President, are to manage all
our concerns with foreign nations. They must understand all
their interests, and their political systems. This knowledge is
not soon acquired, — but a very small part is gained in the closet.
Is it desirable that new and unqualified members should be con-
tinually thrown into that body ? When public bodies are engaged
in the exercise of general powers, you cannot judge of the pro-
priety of their conduct, but from the result of their systems.
They may be forming plans, which require time and diligence to
bring to maturity. It is necessary, therefore, that they should
have a considerable and fixed duration, that they may make
their calculations accordingly. If they are to be perpetually
fluctuating, they can never have that responsibility which is so
important in republican governments. In bodies subject to
frequent changes, great political plans must be conducted by
members in succession : a single Assembly can have but a partial
agency in them, and consequently cannot be answerable for the
final event. Considering the Senate therefore with a view to
responsibility, duration is a very interesting and essential quality.
There is another view in which duration in the Senate appears
necessary : a government changeable in its policy, must soon
lose its sense of national character, and forfeit the respect of for-
eigners.—Senators will not be solicitous for the reputation of
public measures, in which they have had but a temporary
concern, and will feel lightly the burthen of public disapproba-
tion, in proportion to the number of those who partake of the
censure. Our political rivals will ever consider our most able
counsels as evidence of deficient wisdom, and will be little appre-
hensive of our arriving at any exalted station in the scale of

jEt. 31.] NEW-YORK CONVENTION. 153

power. Such are the internal and external disadvantages which
would resull from the principle contended for. Were it admitted,
I am firmly persuaded, sir, thai prejudices would govern the
public deliberations, and passions rage in the counsels of the
Union. If it were necessary, I could illustrate my subject by
historical facts. I could travel through an extensive field of
detail, and demonstrate that wherever the fatal principle, of the
head Buffering the control of the members, has operated, it has
proved a fruitful source of commotions and disorder.

This is the first fair opportunity that has been oilered of dc-
liberately correcting the errors in government. Instability has
been a prominent and 7ery defective feature inmost republican
systems. Jt is the first to be seen, and the last to be lamented by
a philosophical inquirer. It has operated most banefully in our
infant republics. It is necessary that we apply an immediate
remedy, and eradicate the poisonous principle from our govern-
ment. If this be not done we shall feel, and posterity will be
convulsed, by a painful malady.

This is one of those subjects on which, objections very natur-
ally arise, and assume the most plausible shape. Its address is
to the passions, and its first impressions create a prejudice, before
cool examination has an opportunity for exertion. It is more

. for the human mind to calculate the evils, than the advan-
tages of a measure ; and vastly more natural to apprehend the
danger than to see the necessity of giving powers to our rulers.
Eence, 1 may justly expect that those who hear me will place
less confidence in those arguments which oppose, than in those
which favor, their prepossessions.

After all our doubts, our suspicions, and speculations, on the
subj eminent, we must return at last to the important

truth, that when we have formed a Constitution upon free prin-
ciples, when we have given a proper balance to the different
branches of administration, and fixed representation upon pure
and equal principles, we may with safety furnish it with all the

powers necessary to answer in the most ample manner the pur-
poses of government. The great desiderata are a free representa-
tion and mutual cheeks. When these are obtained, all our ap

454 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

pretensions of the extent of powers are unjust and imaginary.
What is the structure of this Constitution ? One branch of the
legislature is to be elected by the people — by the same people
who chose your State representatives. Its members are to hold
their office two years, and then return to their constituents. Here
the people govern. Here they act by their immediate repre-
sentatives. You have also a Senate, constituted by your State
legislatures, by men in whom you place the highest confidence,
and forming another representative branch. Then, again, you
have an executive magistate, created by a form of election which
meets universal admiration. In the form of this government,
and in the mode of legislation, you find all the checks which the
greatest politicians and the best writers have ever conceived.
What more can reasonable men desire ? Is there any one
branch in which the whole legislative and executive powers are
lodged ? No. The legislative authority is lodged in three dis-
tinct branches, properly balanced. The executive authority is
divided between two branches, and the judicial is still reserved
for an independent body, who hold their office during good be-
havior. This organization is so complex, so skilfully contrived,
that it is next to impossible that an impolitic or wicked measure
should pass the great scrutiny with success. Now, what do
gentlemen mean by coming forward and declaiming against this
government ? Why do they say we ought to limit its powers,
to disable it, and to destroy its capacity of blessing the people ?
Has philosophy suggested — has experience taught — that such a
government ought not to be trusted with every thing necessary
for the good of society ? When you have divided and nicely
balanced the departments of government; when you have
strongly connected the virtue of your rulers with their interest ;
when, in short, you have rendered your system as perfect as
human forms can be, you must place confidence, you must give
power.

We have heard a great deal of the sword and the purse. It
is said our liberties are in clanger if both are possessed by Con-
gress. Let us see what is the true meaning of this maxim,
which has been so much used, and so little understood. It is,

for. 31.] NEW- YORK CONVENTION. 455

that you shall not plan' these powers in either the Legislative or
I ecutive, singly ; neither one nor the other shall have both ; be-
cause this would destroy that division of powers on which political
liberty is founded, ami would furnish one body with all the means
of tyranny. But when the purse is Lodged in one branch, and the
sword in another, there can be no danger. All governments
have possessed these powers. They would be monsters without
them, and incapable of exertion. What is your State govern-
ment? Does not your Legislature command what money it
pleases? Does not your Executive execute the laws without
restraint? These distinctions between the purse and the sword
have no application to the system, but only to its separate
branches. When we reason about the great interests of a great
people, it is high time that we dismiss our prejudices, and banish
declamation.

In order to induce us to consider the powers given by this
Constitution as dangerous, in order to render plausible an at-
tempt to take away the life and spirit of the most important
power in government, the gentleman complains that we shall not
have a true and safe representation. I have asked him what a
safe representation is, and he has given no satisfactory answer.
The Assembly of New-York has been mentioned as a proper
standard. But if we apply this standard to the General Govern-
ment, our Congress will become a mere mob, exposed to every
irregular impulse, and Bubject to every breeze of faction. Can
such a system afford security? Can you have confidence in
such a body ? The idea of taking the ratio of representation in
a small society, for tin' ratio of a gnat one. is a fallacy which
oughl to I"- exposed. It is impossible to ascertain to what point
our representation will increase. It may vary from one to two,
three, or four hundred. It depends upon the progress of popula-
tion. Suppose it to rest at two hundred; is not this number
sufficient to secure it against corruption? Human nature must
be a much more weak and despicable thin,-- than 1 apprehend it

to be, if two hundred of our fellow-citizens can be corrupted in

two years. Bu1 BUppose they are corrupted; can they, in two
years, accomplish their designs? Can they form a combination,

456 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 31.

and even lay a foundation for a system of tyranny, in so short a
period ? It is far from my intention to wound the feelings of
any gentleman ; but I must, in this most interesting discussion,
speak of things as they are, and hold up opinions in the light in
which they ought to appear ; and I maintain, that all that has
been said of corruption, of the purse and the sword, and of the
danger of giving powers, is not supported by principle or fact ;
that it is mere verbiage and idle declamation. The true princi-
ple of government is this— make the system complete in its
structure; give a perfect proportion and balance to its parts,
and the powers you give it will never affect your security. The
question, then, of the division of powers between the General
and State governments, is a question of convenience. It be-
comes a prudential inquiry, what powers are proper to be re-
served to the latter, and this immediately involves another in-
quiry into the proper objects of the two governments. This is
the criterion by which we shall determine the just distribution
of powers.

The great leading objects of the Federal Government, in
which revenue is concerned, are to maintain domestic peace, and
provide for the common defence. In these are comprehended
the regulation of commerce, that is, the whole system of foreign
intercourse, the support of armies and navies, and of the civil
administration. It is useless to go into detail. Every one knows
that the objects of the General Government are numerous, exten-
sive, and important. Every one must acknowledge the necessity
of giving powers, in all respects and in every degree, equal to
these objects. This principle assented to, let us inquire what are
the objects of the State governments. Have they to provide
against foreign invasion? Have they to maintain fleets and
armies t Have they any concern in the regulation of commerce,
the procuring alliances, or forming treaties of peace? No.
Their objects are merely civil and domestic, to support the legis-
ative establishment, and to provide for the administration of the
ays. Let any one compare the expense of supporting the civil
hst m a State with the expense of providing for the defence of
the Union. The difference is almost beyond calculation. The

^t. 31.] NEW -YORK CONVENTION. 457

experience of GTeat Britain will throw some light on this subject.
In that kingdom, the ordinary expenses of peace to those of war

are as one to fourteen. But there they have a monarch, with
his splendid court, and an enormous civil establishment, with
which we have nothing in this country to compare. If, in Great
Britain, the expenses of war and peace are so disproportioncd,
how wide will be their disparity in the United States! How
infinite] v wider between the General Government and that of
each individual State! AVhere ought the great resources to be
lodged ? Every rational man will give an immediate answer.
To what extent shall these resources be possessed ? Eeason says,
as far as possible exigencies can require ; that is, without limita-
tion. A Constitution cannot set bounds to a nation's wants ; it
ought not therefore to set bounds to its resources. Unexpected
visitations, long and ruinous wars, may demand all the possible
abilities of the country. Shall not our government have power
to call these abilities into action? The contingencies of society
are not reducible to calculations ; thev cannot be fixed or
bounded, even in imagination. Will you limit the means of
your defence, when you cannot ascertain the force or extent of
the invasion? Even in ordinary wars, a government is fre-
quently obliged to call for supplies, to the temporary oppression
of the people.

If we adopt the idea of exclusive revenues, we shall be
obliged to fix some distinguishing line, which neither govern-
ment shall overpass. The inconveniences of this measure must
appear evident on the slightest examination. The resources
appropriated to one may diminish or fail, while those of the other
may increase beyond the wants of government. One may be
destitute of revenues, while the other shall possess an unnecessary
abundance; and the Constitution will be an eternal barrier to a
mutual intercourse and relief. In this case, will the individual
States stand on so good a ground as if the objects of taxation
were lefl free and open to the embrace of both the governments?
Possibly, in the advancement of commerce, the imposts may
increase to such a degree, as to render direct taxes unnecessary;
these resources, then, as the Constitution stands, may be occa-

458 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 31.

sionally relinquished to the States. But on the gentleman's idea
of prescribing exclusive limits, and precluding all reciprocal
communication, this would be entirely improper. The laws of
the States must not touch the appropriated resources of the
United States, whatever may be their wants. Would it not be
of more advantage to the States to have a concurrent jurisdiction
extending to all the sources of revenue, than to be confined to
such a small resource as, on calculation of the objects of the
two governments, should appear to be their due proportion?
Certainly, you cannot hesitate on this question. The gentleman's
plan would also have a further ill effect ; it would tend to dis-
solve the connection and correspondence of the two governments,
to estrange them from each other, and to destroy that mutual
dependence which forms the essence of Union.

A number of arguments have been advanced by an honorable
member from New- York, which, to every unclouded mind, must
carry conviction. He has stated that, in sudden emergencies, it
may be necessary to borrow ; and that it is impossible to borrow
unless you have funds to pledge for the payment of your debts.
Limiting the powers of government to certain resources, is ren-
dering the funds precarious; and obliging the government to
ask, instead of empowering it to command, is to destroy all con-
fidence and credit. If the power of taxing is restricted, the
consequence is, that on the breaking out of a war, you must
divert the funds, appropriated to the payment of debts, to answer
immediate exigencies. Thus, you violate your engagements at
the very time you increase the burthen of them. Besides, sound
policy condemns the practice of accumulating debts. A govern-
ment, to act with energy, should have the possession of all its
revenues to answer present purposes. The principle, for which
I contend, is recognized in all its extent by our old Constitution.
Congress is authorized to raise troops, to call for supplies without
limitation, and to borrow money to any amount. It is true, they
must use the form of recommendations and requisitions ; but the
States are bound, by the solemn ties of honor, of justice, of
religion, to comply without reserve.

Mr. Chairman, — It has been advanced as a principle, that no

jEt. 31.] NEW- YORK CONVENTION. 1 •'•'•»

government bnt a despotism can exist in a very extensive
country. This is a melancholy consideration indeed. It'it were
fouiidci I on truth, we ought to dismiss the idea of a Republican
government, even for the State of New- York. This idea has
been taken from a celebrated writer, who, by being misunder-
stood, lias been the occasion of frequent fallacies in our reason-
ing on political subjects. But the position has 1 n misappre-
hended; and its application is entirely false and unwarrantable.
It relates only to Democracies, where the whole body of the
people meel to transact business, and where representation is
unknown. Such were a number of ancient, and some modern
independent cities. Men who read without attention, have taken
these maxims respecting the extent of country; and, contrary to
their proper meaning, have applied them to Eepublics in gene-
ral. This application is wrong, in respect to all representative
governments, but especially in relation to a Confederacy of
States, in which the supreme legislature lias only general powers,
and the civil and domestic concerns of the people are regulated
by the laws of the several States. This distinction being kept
in view, all the difficulty will vanish, and we may easily con-
ceive, that the people of a large country may be represented as
truly, as those of a small one. An assembly constituted for gen-
eral purposes, may be fully competent to every federal regula-
tion, without being too numerous for deliberate conduct If the
State governments were to be abolished, the question would
wear a different face; but this idea is inadmissible. They are
absolutely necessary to the system. Their existence must form
a leading principle in the most perfect Constitution we could
a. I insist that it never can be the interest or desire of the
National legislature, to destroy the State governments. It can
derive no advantage from such an event; but, on the contrary,
would lose an indispensable support, a necessary aid in execut-
ing the laws, and conveying the influence of government to the
doors of the people. The Union is dependent on the will of the
State governments for its Chief Magistrate, and for its Senate.
The blow aimed at the members, must give a fatal wound to the
head, and the destruction of the States must be at once a politi-

460 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 31.

cal suicide. Can the National Government be guilty of this
madness ? What inducements, what temptations, can they
have ? Will they attach new honors to their station ; will they
increase the national strength ; will they multiply the national re-
sources; will they make themselves more respectable, in the
view of foreign nations, or of their fellow-citizens, by robbing
the States of their constitutional privileges ? But imagine for a
moment, that a political frenzy should seize the government.
Suppose they should make the attempt. Certainly it would be
for ever impracticable. This has been sufficiently demonstrated
by reason and experience. It has been proved, that the mem-
bers of republics have been, and ever will be, stronger than the
head. Let us attend to one general historical example. In the
ancient feudal governments of Europe there was in the first
place a monarch; subordinate to him a body of nobles; and sub-
ject to these, the vassals or the whole body of the people. The
authority of the kings was limited, and that of the barons con-
siderably independent. A great part of the early wars in Eu-
rope were contests between the king and his nobility. In these
contests, the latter possessed many advantages, derived from
their influence, and the immediate command they had over the
people, and they generally prevailed. The history of the feudal
wars exhibits little more than a series of successful encroach-
ments on the prerogatives of monarchy. Here is one great proof
of the superiority, which the members in limited governments
possess over their head. As long as the barons enjoyed the
cenfidence and attachment of the people, they had the strength
of the country on their side, and were irresistible. I may be
told that m some instances the barons were overcome. But how
did this happen ? They took advantage of the depression of the
royal authority, and the establishment of their own power to
oppress and tyrannize over their vassals. As commerce enlarged,
and as wealth and civilization increased, the people began to
feel their own weight and consequence; they grew tired of their
oppressions; united their strength with that of the prince ; and
threw off the yoke of aristocracy. These very instances prove
what I contend for. They prove, that in whatever direction

Mr. 31.] NEW-YORK CONVENTION. 461

the popular weight leans, the current of power will flow. Wher-
ever the popular attachments be, there will rest the political

superiority. Sir, can it be supposed that the State governments
will become the oppressors of the people? Will they forget
their affections? Will they combine to destroy the liberties and
happiness of their fellow-citizens, for the sole purpose of involv-
ing themselves in ruin? God forbid! The idea is sin irking 1
It outrages every feeling of humanity, and every dictate of com-
mon sense 1

There arc certain social principles in human nature, from
which we may draw the most solid conclusions with respect to
the conduct of individuals, and of communities. We love our
families, more than our neighbors; we love our neighbors more
than our countrymen in general. The human affections, like
the solar heat, lose their intensity, as they depart from the cen-
tre ; and become languid in proportion to the expansion of the
circle on which they act. On these principles, the attachment
of the individual will be first and for ever secured by the State
governments. They will be a mutual protection and support.
Another source of influence, winch has already been pointed
out, is the various official connections in the States. Gentlemen
endeavor to evade the force of this, by saying that these oifices
will be insignificant. This is by no means true. The State
officers will ever be important, because they are necessary and
useful. Their powers are such as are extremely interesting to
the people, such as affect their property, their liberty and life.
What is more important, than the administration of justice, and
the execution of the civil and criminal laws? Can the State
governments become insignificant, while they have the power of
raising money independently and without control? If they are
really useful; if they are calculated to promote the essential
interests of the people; they must have their confidence
support. The States can never lose their till the

whole people of America are robbed of their liberties. T
must go together, they must it each other, or meet one

common fate. On the gentleman's principles, we may safely
trust the State governments, though we have no means of re-

462 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 31.

sisting them, but we cannot confide in the National Government,
though we have an effectual constitutional guard against every
encroachment. This is the essence of their argument, and it is
false and fallacious beyond conception.

With regard to the jurisdiction of the two Governments, I
shall certainly admit that the Constitution ought not to be so
formed as to prevent the States providing for their own exist-
ence; and I maintain that it is so formed that their power
of providing for themselves is sufficiently established. This is
conceded by one gentleman, and in the next breath the conces-
sion i s retracted. He says Congress have but one exclusive right
in taxation, that of duties on imports. Certainly, then, their
other powers are only concurrent. But, to take off the force of
this obvious conclusion, he immediately says that if the laws of
the United States are supreme, those of the States must be
subordinate, because there cannot be two supremes. This is
curious sophistry. That two supreme powers cannot act together
is false. They are inconsistent only when they are aimed at each
other, or at one indivisible object. The laws of the United
States are supreme as to all their proper constitutional objects.
The laws of the States are supreme in the same way. These su-
preme laws may act on different objects without clashing, or they
may operate on different parts of the same common object with
perfect harmony. Suppose both governments should lay a tax
of a penny on a certain article. Has not each an independent
and uncontrollable power to collect its own tax ? The meaning
of the axiom, that there cannot be two supremes, is simply this :
two powers cannot be supreme over each other. This meaning
is entirely perverted by the gentlemen. But, it is said, disputes
between collectors are to be referred to the Federal courts.
This is again wandering in the field of conjecture. But suppose
the fact certain. Is it not to be presumed that they will express
the true meaning of the Constitution and the laws ? Will they
not be bound to consider the concurrent jurisdiction ; to declare
that both the taxes shall have equal operation ; that both the
powers, in that respect, are sovereign and coextensive ? If they
transgress their duty we are to hope that they will be punished.

At. 31.] NEW -YORK CONVENTION. 463

Sir, we cannot reason from probabilities alone. When we Leave
common sense, and give ourselves up to conjecture, there can be
no certainty, no security in our reasonings.

I imagine I have stated to the committee abundanl reasons to

prove the entire safety of the State governments and of the peo-
ple. 1 would go into a more minute consideration of the nature
of the concurrent jurisdiction, and of the operation of the laws in
relation to revenue; but at presenl 1 feel too much indisposed to
proceed. I shall, with the leave of the committee, improve an-
other opportunity of expressing to them more fully my ideas on
this point. I wish the committee to remember, that the Consti-
tution under examination is framed upon truly republican princi-
ples, and that, as it is expressly designed to provide for the common
protection and the general welfare of the United States, it must
be utterly repugnant to this Constitution to subvert the State
governments, or oppress the people.

BRIEF OF ARGUMENT OX THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED

STATES.

1788.

A. I. A republic, a word used in various senses.

lias been applied to aristocracies and monarchies.

1. To Home, under the kings.

2. To Sparta, though a Senate for life.

3. To Carthage, though the same.

4. To United Netherlands, though Stadtholder, he-

reditary nobles.

5. To Poland, though aristocracy and monarchy.

6. To Great Britain, though monarchy, i\:r.

II. Again, great confusion about the words democracy, aris-
tocracy, monarchy.

I. Democracy defined by some, Rousseau, &o, a
government exercised by the colleetive body
of the people.

464 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 31.

2. Delegation of their power has been made
the criterion of aristocracy.
I. Aristocracy has been used to designate govern-
ments.

1. Where an independent few possessed

sovereignty.

2. Where the representatives of the people

possessed it.
II. Monarch, where sovereignty in the hands of a single
man.
W^T* General idea — Independent in his situation, in any other
sense would apply to State of New York.

III. Democracy in my sense, where the whole power of

the government in the people.

1. Whether exercised by themselves, or

2. By their representatives, chosen by them either me-

diately or immediately and legally accountable to
them.

IV. Aristocracy where whole sovereignty is permanently in

the hands of a few for life or hereditary.
V. Monarchy where the whole sovereignty is in the hands

of one man for life or hereditary.
VI. Mixed government where these three principles unite.
B I. Consequence, the proposed government a representative
democracy.

1. House of representatives directly chosen by the

people for two years.

2. Senate indirectly chosen by them for six years.

3. President indirectly chosen by them for four years.
Thus legislative and executive representatives of the

people.

4. Judicial power, representatives of the people indi-
rectly chosen during good behavior.

5. All officers indirect choice of the people.
Constitution revocable and alterable by the people.

C I. This representative democracy as far as is'consistent with
its genius has all the features of good government.
These features.

jEt. 31.] NEW -YORK CONVENTION. 465

1. An immediate and operative representation of the

people, which is found in the Bouseof Representa-
tives.

2. Stability and wisdom, which is found in the Senate.

3. A vigorous executive, which is found in the Presi-

dent.

4. An independent judicial, which is found in the

Supreme Court, &c.

b A separation of the essential powers of government.

Ascertain the sense of the maxim.
1. One department must not wholly possess the powers

of another.

= Montesquieu.

= British Government.
II. Departments of power must be separated, yet so as to
check each other.

1. Legislative.

2. Legislative executive.

3. Judicial Legislative.

4. Legislative judicial.

I ' Ai! this done in the proposed Constitution.

1. Legislative in the Congress, yet checked by negative

of the Executive.

2. Executive in the President, yet checked by impeach-

ment of Congress.

3. Judicial check upon Legislative, or Interpretation of

Laws.

4. And checked by Legislative through Impeachment.
D. 1. <'an such a Government apply to so extensive a ter-
ritory ?

Exaggerated ideas of extent.

N.
42

S.
31
11
973 764$ mean 868| by

- 760

b 30

466 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 31.

Great Britain.
2. Despotic Government for a large country to be ex-
amined.

Review.

I. Full House of Eepresentatives chosen every second year,

&c.

II. Senate for six years by Legislatures.

Rotation every two years.
Probable increase.

III. Executive manner of appointment.

Compensation.
Negotiation of treaties.
Nomination of officers.

IV. Judicial power. Constitution of Judges.

Extent of powers.
Inferior Courts.
Trial by jury.
Criminal cases.

Poivers.

I. To provide revenue for the common defence.

II. To regulate commerce.

III. To declare war.

IY. To raise and support armies.
V. Admission of New States.
VI. Disposal of property.

Miscellaneovis Advantages.

I. To prohibit importation of slaves prior to 1808.

II. Account to be rendered of expenditure of moneys.

III. No State shall emit bills of credit under ex post-facto law,

or law impairing the obligation of contracts, or grant
title of nobility.

IV. Definition of treason.

V. Guarantee of Republican Governments.

jEt. 31.] NEW-YORK CONVENTION. b',7

DRAFT OK PRO POSED RATIFICATION OF THE CONSTITUTION OF
THE UNITED STATES, WITH SPECIFIED AMENDMENTS.

We, tin v delegates of tin' people of the State of New-York
in Convention assembled, baying maturely considered the Con-
stitution for the United States, agreed to on the L7th day of Sep-
fcember, in the year 17s7, at Philadelphia, in the commonwealth

tit' Pennsylvania, by the Convention then and there convened,
and having also seriously and deliberately considered the present
situation of the I'nited States, ami I ing convinced thai it is ad-
visable to adopt the said Constitution, do declare and make
known, in the nana' ami behalf of the people aforesaid, that the
powers granted in and by the said Constitution being derived
from the people of the United States, may be resumed by them
whenever they shall judge it necessary to their happiness; that
e\ ery power not granted thereby remains either to them or their
respective State governments, to whom they may have delegated
the same; that therefore m> riuht of any kind, either of the peo-
ple of the respective States or of the said governments, can be
celled, abridged, restrained, or modified by Congress, or by
any officer or department of the United States, except in con-
formity to the powers given by the said Constitution, that among
other essential rights, the liberty of conscience and of the press
cannot l»e cancelled or abridged by any authority of the United

State-.

With these impressions, with a firm reliance on the blessing
of Providence upon a government framed under circumstances

which afford a new and instructive example of wisdom and

moderation to mankind ; with an entire conviction that it will be
more prudent to rely, for whatever amendments may be desira-
ble in the said ( lonstitution, on the mode therein prescribed, than
either to embarrass the Union <>r hazard dissensions in any part
of the community by pursuing a differenl course, and with a full
confidence that the amendments which shall have been propos d
will receive an early and mature consideration, and that sue1
them as may in any degree tend to the real security and perma-

468 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 31.

nent advantage of the people, will be adopted : We, the said
delegates, in the name and behalf of the People of this State,
Do, by these presents, assent to and Eatify the Constitution
aforesaid, hereby announcing to all those whom it may concern,
that the said Constitution is binding upon the said people accord-
ing to an authentic copy hereunto annexed.

And to the end, that the sense of the people of this State
may be manifested touching certain parts of the said Constitu-
tion, concerning which doubts have been raised, we the dele-
gates aforesaid, in the name and behalf of the people aforesaid,
do, by these presents, further declare and make known that, ac-
cording to the true intent and meaning of the said Constitution,
Congress ought not to interpose in the regulation of the times,
places, and manner of holding elections for Senators and Repre-
sentatives, except only in such cases in which the Legislatures of
the respective States, or any of them, may neglect, refuse, or be
unable to make provision, or for the purpose of appointing a
uniform time for the election of Representatives ; and that the
Legislature of any State may, at its discretion, lay out such State
into convenient districts for the election of Representatives, and
may apportion its Representatives to and among such districts.
And also that, except as to duties on imports and exports — in the
Post-Office, and duties of tonnage, the United States and the States
respectively have concurrent and coequal authority to lay and col-
lect all taxes whatever ; and therefore that neither of them can,
in any wise, contravene, control, or annul the operation or exe-
cution of any law of the other for the imposition or collection of
any tax, except as aforesaid. And also that there must be once
in every four years an election of the President and Vice-Presi-
dent, so that no other officer who may be appointed by Congress
to act as President in case of the removal, death, resignation, or
inability of the President and Vice-President, can in any case
continue to act beyond the termination of the period for which
the last President and Vice-President were elected : and also
that the judicial power of the United States, in cases in which a
State may be a party, does not extend to criminal prosecutions,
or to any suit by private persons against a State ; and that the

JBt. aa.] NEW-YORK CONVKNTION. 409

appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court oannol authorize a

second trial i>t' any suit in any criminal case wh:ite\ er, i »r a 3ec md

trial of any suit determinable in the>c Be of the common law

by a jury, and which dial] have been so determined in the ori-
ginal cause. And lastly, thai the process of presentment and in-
dictmenl by a grand jury ought to l>e observed in every prosecu-
tion for any crime, as a necessary preliminary to the trial then

Anil in on Km- that the foregoing declarations and Constitution
may be recognized and inviolably observed in the administration
of the government of the United States, this Convention, in the
name and behalf of the people aforesaid, do hereby enjoin upon
the Senators and Representatives of this State in the < longress, to
proemv, as soon as may t>e after the meeting of Congress, a
claratory act in conformity to these presents.

\\V would also airree to recommend the following Amend-
ments to th Constitution : —

I. That there shall be one Representative for every 30,000,
>rding to the enumeration or census mentioned in the < lonsti-

tution, until the whole number of Representatives amounts to
2<>0: after which that number shall be continued or increased,
but not diminished, as Congress shall direct, and according to
such ratio as Congress Bhall fix in conformity to the rule pre-
scribed for the apportionment of Representatives and Direct
Taxes.

II. That the Court for the Trial of Impeachments shall con-
■ of the Senate, the Judges of the Supreme Court of the United

States, and the first or senior Judge for the time being, of the
highest court of general and ordinary common law jurisdiction
in each State. That Congress shall, by standing laws, designate
the Courts in the respective States answering this description,
and it a having no Courts exactly answering this descrip-

tion, shall designate some other Court, preferring such, if any
there be, whose Judge or Judges may hold their places during
good behavior, — provided that not more than one Judge shall
come from oi: 31 ■. That Congress be authorized to pass laws
for compensating the said Judges and for compelling their att
ance, and that a majority at Least of the said Ju ihall be

470 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 31.

requisite to constituting said Court. That no person impeached
shall sit as a member thereof. That each member shall, pre-
vious to the entering upon .any trial, take an oath or affirmation
honestly and impartially to hear and determine the cause, — and
that of the members present shall be necessary for a con-
viction.

III. That the authority given to the Executives of the States
to fill the vacancies of Senators be abolished; and that such
vacancies be filled by the respective Legislatures.

IV. That the compensation for the Senators and Eepresenta-
tives be ascertained by standing laws ; and that no alteration of
the existing rate of compensation shall operate for the benefit of
the Eepresentatives until after a subsequent election shall have
been had.

V. That no appropriation of money in time of peace for the
support of an army, shall be by less than two-thirds of the Eep-
resentatives and Senators present.

VI. That the Executive shall not take the actual command
in the field of an army, without the previous direction of Con-
gress.

VII. That each State shall have power to provide for organ-
izing, arming, and disciplining its militia, when no provision
for that purpose shall have been made by Congress, and until
such provision shall have been made that the militia shall never
be subjected to martial law, but in time of war, rebellion, or
insurrection.

VIII. That the Journals of Congress shall be published at
least once a year, with exception of such parts relating to trea-
ties or military operations as in the judgment of either House
shall require secrecy.

LX. That the judicial power of the United States, shall extend
to no controversy respecting land, unless it relate to claims of
territory or jurisdiction between States, or to claims of land
between individuals, or between States and individuals under
grants of different States.

X. That no judge of the Supreme Court shall hold any
other office under the United States or any of them.

iE-r. 31.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONCIMISS. 471

XI. Thai when the number of persons in the district of ter-
ritory to be laid oul for the Beat of the Government of the United
States, shall, according to the rule for the apportionment of Rep-

mtatives and direcl taxes, amount to , such district

shall erase to be parcel of the Slate granting the same, ami pro-
vision shall he made l>y Congress for having a distind represen-
tation ill that hoily.

XII. Thai the Representatives, Senators, Presidents, Vice-
Presidents, and Judges of the United States, shall each take an
oath or affirmation not to infringe or violate the Constitution of
Ihe respects e States.

X 1 1 1. That no capitation tax shall ever be laid by Congress.

EESOLUTIONS IN CONGEESS.

New-Yhuk. Augusl 7. 1788.

Whereas the Convention assembled at Philadelphia, in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, did, on the seventeenth clay of
September, last past, resolve, as the opinion of that Convention,
that as soon as the Conventions of nine States should have rati-
fied the Constitution, then and there agreed upon by the .-aid
Convention, the United States, in Congress assembled, should ii.\
a da\ on which electors should be appointed by the States which
should have ratified the same, and a day on which the electors

should assemble to vote for the President, and the time and place
for commencing proceedings under the said Constitution : and
whereas the United States, in Congress assembled, having re*
ceived the ratifications of the said < lonstitution, by eleven States,

did, on the twenty-eighth ultimo, and on the fourth and sixth in-
stant, agive to the following resolutions, to wit : That the first
Wednesday in January next be the day for appointing electors

in the several States, which before the said day shall have rati-
fied the said Constitution; that the first Wednesday in February
next, be the day for the electors to assemble in their respective

472 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 31.

States, and vote for a President ; and that the first Wednesday in
March next be the time, and the present seat of Congress the
place, for commencing the proceedings under the said Consti-
tution ;

And whereas it does not appear that the States of Ehode
Island and North Carolina have ratified the said Constitution, and
whereas the delegates of the said two States have voted upon
certain parts of the said resolutions, therefore,

Resolved, as the sense of this Congress, That any vote given, or
which may be given on said resolutions, by the delegate or dele-
gates of any State which hath not ratified the said Constitution,
shall in no wise be construed, directly or indirectly, to imply, on
their part, or on the part of the States which they represent, an
approbation of the Constitution aforesaid, or of any part thereof,
or any manner or kind of obligation on the part of any such
State touching the same, or the relinquishment of any right
heretofore or now claimed, or which may be claimed by such
State ; and that all and singular the rights of such State shall re-
main, continue, and are, to all intents and purposes, in the same
situation as if such delegates had refrained from voting respect-
ing the said resolutions.

ASYLUM TO FUGITIVE SLAVES.

August 26, 1788.

On the report of a committee, consisting of Mr. Hamilton,
Mr. Sedgewick, and Mr. Madison, to whom was referred a report
of the Secretary for the Department of Foreign Affairs, of the
14th instant,

Resolved, That the Secretary for the Department of Foreign
Affairs be directed to transmit copies of the papers referred to in
his said report, to the Charge des Affaires of the United States at
Madrid, and instruct him to represent to his Catholic Majesty the
inconveniences which the States bordering on his dominions ex-
perience from the asylum afforded to fugitive negroes belonging

jEt. 31.] RESOLUTIONS IN CONGRESS. 173

to the citizens of the said States; and that Congress have full
confidence thai orders Bhal] be given to his governors to permit
and facilitate their being apprehended and delivered to persons
authorized to receive them; assuring his Majesty thai the said

mil observe the likeoonducl respecting all suchnegr
belonging to his subjects, as may be found therein.

R solved, That the said Secretary b • also directed to commu-
nicate the said papers t<> the Encargado de Negocios of Spain,
and to signify to him that his interposition to obtain proper n
hit i. >ns to be made on the subject, would be very agreeable to
Congress.

FREE NAVIGATION OF TIIE MISSISSIPPI.

September 16, 1788.

On the report of the committee, consisting of Mr. Hamilton,
Mr. Madison. Mr. Williamson, Mr. Dane, and Mr. Edwards, to
whom wasreferred the report of the Secretary for Foreign Affairs,
on a motion of the delegates of North Carolina, stating the un-
iness produced by a report "that Congress are disposed to
treat with Spain tor the surrender of their claim to the naviga-
tion of the river .Mississippi," and proposing a resolution intended
to remove such apprehensions,

AVWra/, That the said report, not being founded in fact, the
delegates be at liberty to communicate all such circumstances as
may be necessary to contradict the same, and to remove miscon-
ceptions.

/,'• •./,-.,/, That the IVe<> navigation of the river Mississippi is a
clear and essential right of the United States, and that the same
ought to be considered and supported as such.

Resolved, That no further pro be made in the negotia-

tions with Spain, by the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, but that-
the subjeel to which they relate be referred to the Federal Con-
gress, which is to assemble in March next.

474 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

ADDRESS.

New-York, February 18, 1789.
To the Supervisors of the City of Albany, in the County of Albany.

Gentlemen :

The last Tuesday of April next being the day appointed by
law for the election of a Governor for the ensuing three years,
the great importance of making a wise choice in the present
peculiar situation of our local and national affairs, appears to
have made a deep impression on the minds of considerate men
in the different parts of the State.

On the eleventh instant, a numerous meeting of respectable
inhabitants was held in this city, to consult on what was best to
be done in relation to that object ; and we have been advised
that similar meetings have been held in some other counties.

The meeting in this city were unanimous in the result of
their deliberations ; and we, the subscribers, were appointed a
committee to correspond with our fellow-citizens in the other
counties, upon the subject, in order that a mutual communication
of sentiments might promote mutual confidence, and a happy
concert in such a choice, as a dispassionate attention to the good
of the community, divested of all particular attachments or dis-
likes, should be found to recommend.

The people of this State are the sovereigns of it ; and being now
called upon by their Constitution to appoint a Chief Magistrate,
it cannot but be useful that so high an act of sovereignty should
be preceded by an interchange of ideas and sentiments, especially
at so critical a juncture as the present ; for at no period can it be
more necessary to take care that our affairs be committed to the
management of disinterested, discreet, and temperate rulers, than
at a period when the heats of party are to be assuaged, discord-
ant opinions reconciled, and all the inconveniences attending
changes in national government provided against.

As this State is only part of a larger community ; as its pros-
perity must therefore materially depend on its maintaining its
due weight in the national scale ; on its being charged with only

jEt. 32.] ADDRESS. IT"-

its iliu' proportion of public burthens; and oil its deriving from
the General Government its due share "l' favor and protection;
it is evidently of the greatesl momenl thai the people should 1"'
united and circumspect, and their rulers should be men who will
neither be seduced by interest, dot impelled by passi into de-
signs or measures which may justly forfeit the confidence or
friendship of the other members of the great national Bociety.

()n this ground, it is highly necessary that the Chief Ma
trate of the State Bhould be free from all temptation wantonly to
perplex or embarrass the National Government — whether that
temptation should arise from a preference of partial confedera-
cies; from a spirit of competition with the national rulers for

jonal pre-eminence ; from an impatience of the restraints of
national authority, from the fear of a iliminution of power and
emoluments : from resentment or mortification, proceeding from
disappointment; or from any other cause whatsoever. For all at-
tempts to perplex and embarrass, would not only tend to prevent
the Government from doing the good they maymeditate, but
would also expose this State to the distrust and ill will of the
otic

It is also of no inconsiderable consequence, in the same
view, that the Governor of the State should be of a disposi-
: to pay those decent attentions, and practise that be-
coming republican hospitality, which the persons who adminis-
ter the National Government, and distinguished strangers in
public character, whom the affairs of the nation call to reside in
our capital, have a right to expect. The dignity as well as the
interests of the State require this, and ample provision is con-
stant^ made for it by the liberal salary and perquisites annexed

to the office. A contrary conduct cannot fail to create disgUSl and

tempt; and to draw not merely upon the Magistrate himself
but, in some measure, upon the State, imputations not a little
mortifying to a people long celebrated for their hospitality, and
who uniformly enable their Bxe >utive representative to maintain
their character in tin.- respect. For it can never be presumed to
be their intention to attach such considerable emoluments to the
offic- ■.'//'-"' the sake of enriching its possessor.

470 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

Many considerations might be detailed to show the important
light in which our political annexation as a member of the Union
onght to be viewed, and to demonstrate how much the regula-
tion of our trade, the repossession of our frontier posts, and va-
rious other important interests may be affected, by our having
much or little influence in the Confederacy. But this would
lead to a discussion too long for the occasion, and, to reflecting
men, be unnecessary. Hence, however, this inference is to
be drawn, that we cannot be too careful of keeping power and
opportunity from those, whom we have reason to believe may
be predisposed to employ them in a manner calculated to alien-
ate the friendship and confidence of our sister States.

As to the domestic situation of the State, it appeared to the
meeting to be such as to admonish us to use great circumspection
in the choice of a Governor. The council of appointment is so
powerful an engine in the hands of a Governor, for perpetuating
himself in office, that his conduct in it cannot be regarded with
too watchful an eye ; because it is evident, that an artful man
may, in the course of ten or twelve years, so fasten himself to
the office, by means of this engine, as to become too indifferent
to the opinion and control of the people, and perhaps immov-
able by the efforts of the virtuous and independent. Extremely
free from blame, therefore, and from all suspicion of undue at-
tachment to place or to profit, and very satisfactory to the com-
munity at large, ought to be the administration of a Governor, to
render it prudent in the people to leave so powerful an engine in
his hands for a long succession of years.

As on the one hand, in this council of appointment, the Gov-
ernor will, for the most part, have a preponderating influence,
so on the other, that influence will generally be exerted, accord-
ing to the views and wishes of the man. If he wishes to pro-
mote the public good, and to acquire fame and popularity, by
acting as the Governor of the State, and not as the Governor of
a party, then merit in every situation will be cherished and em-
ployed. If, on the contrary, offices are to be the price of obedi-
ence, and men are to enjoy his favor, no longer than they con-
sent to be his tools, merit will be neglected, and the State must

jEt. 32.] ADDRESS. 477

suffer by having the public business, in too many instances,
intrusted to improper hands.

In addition to the parties which have too long existed in the
State, on personal and particular grounds, it must be Lamented,
that the new Constitution for the government of the United
States has divided the community on a more extensive
and lias occasioned animosities which have uot yet ceased to
operate. < >n thai greal question very honesl men took opposite
sides; and those who were not ho dsted in "troubling the

waters."

certainly, it is now high time thai those parties should sub-
side; and should, for the sake of the public good, unite ; ing
in these two points, that all should join in supporting the Constitu-
tion established by the people of the United States, and that all
should join in obtaining a reconsideration of the parts which have
been the subject of objection, in order that every reasonable and
safe endeav< >r may be used to give universal satisfaction, to remove
the apprehensions entertained by the honest opponents of the
in, and t<> provide, it' upon cool and deliberate examination
any be found requisite, such additional securities to the liberl
of the people, as shall be compatible with the salutary and neces-
energy of an efficient National Government. To such a
compromise, it is essential that the unhappy divisions which now

-■ among us should be buried. And to this end, it is equally
• 3S< ntial, that our first magistrate should be a man of modera-
tion, sincerely disposed to heal, uot to widen those divisions; to
promote conciliation, no1 dissension, to allay, not excite the fer-
mentations of party spirit, and to restore that cordial goodwill
and mutual confidence, which ought to exist among a people,
bound to each other by all the ties which connect members of
the same society.

It is seriously to be deplored, that dissension reigns in the
most important departments of the State, and as dissensions
anion-- brethren, so destructive to the happiness of families, are
often appeased by parental influence and prudence, so there is
good reason to flatter ourselves, that a Chief Magistrate, srely
desirous of re-establishing concord, may, without much difficulty,

478 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

effect it, especially if lie should owe his exaltation to the votes
of both the contending parties.

Eeflections of this nature had their full weight in forming
the opinion of the meeting, which appointed us, not only as to
the necessity of choosing some other person than the present
Governor, but as to the man whom it would be desirable to
substitute.

As we are aware, that the warm partisans of men in office
are apt to represent every attempt to change them, as a species
of personal injury, we think it necessary to remark in this
place, that at the expiration of his three years, the Constitution
will return the present Chief Magistrate to the mass of the peo-
ple. The question is not, therefore, whether he shall be put out,
but Avhether he shall be put in. As no man has a right to office,
or re-election, in virtue of long possession, no man, of course,
can have a right to complain, if the people do not think it pro-
per to continue to be governed by Mm.

In the consideration of the character most proper to be held
up at the ensuing election, some difficulties occurred. Our fellow-
citizens in some parts of the State had proposed Judge Yates,
others had been advocates of the Lieutenant Governor, and
others for Chief Justice Morris. It is well known that the in-
habitants of this city are, with few exceptions, strongly attached
to the New Constitution, and have been remarkably unanimous
and active in its support. It is also well known, that Lieutenant
Governor Cortland, and Chief Justice Morris, whom we respect
and esteem, were zealous advocates for the same cause. Had it
been agreed to support either of them for the office of Governor,
there would have been reason to fear, that the measure would
have been imputed to party, and not to a desire of relieving our
country from the evils they experience from the heats of party.
It appeared, therefore, most advisable to elect some man of the
opposite party, in whose integrity, patriotism and temper, confi-
dence might be placed, however little his political opinions on
the question lately agitated might be approved by those who
were assembled upon the occasion.

Among the persons of this description, there were circum-

jEt. 32.] \ D D I! BBS. 179

stances which Led to a decision in favor of Judge Yates. And
we flatten ourselves, thai this decision, to those who are acquaint-
ed with the situation of the State, will be most likely t<» appear
well founded. It is certain, thai as a man and a judge, he is gene-
rally esteemed. And though his opposition to th Constitu-
tion was such as his friends cannol but disapprove; yet, Bince the
period of its adoption, his conduct has been tempered with a
degree of moderation, and regard to peace and decorum, which
entitle him to credit; and Beem to point him out as a man
likely to compose the differences of the State, and to unite its
citizens in the harmonious pursuit oi their common and genuine
inter

Of this a1 least we feel confident, that he has no personal re-
venge to gratify, no opponents to oppress, no partisans to pro-
vide for, nor any promises for personal purposes to be performed
at the public expense. On the contrary, we trust he will be
found to be a man, who looks with an equal eye on his fellow-
citizens, and who will be more ambitious of leaving a good name
than a good estate to his posterity.

For these, and for other reasons, which considerations of de-
corum induce as to pass over in silence, the meeting was una-
nimously of opinion, that it would be advisable to try. Judge
Fates, as our Governor for the n^xt three years. They were
persuaded, that the State could not lose by the experiment, and
entertained strong hopes, that much good would redound to it
from his administration.

We shall be happy to find, that the same reasons, and that
regard for the public weal, which has a1 all times distinguished
their conduct, may induce the Lieutenant-Governor and Chief

fcice Morris to forbear a competition which can evidently, un-
der tli.' existing circumstances, answer ao good purpose; and
that they, and their particular friends, do generously join with
their fellow-citizens of every place and party, in promoting
election of Mr. Yates, as the only candidate likely to succeed,
whose character affords a prospect, that he will, under Provi-
dence, be instrumental in preserving and advancing the dignity
and interests of the people, and in restoring to them the blessings
of union and cordiality at home, and resped abroad.

480 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 32.

It will give us great pleasure to learn the sentiments of
your county, on this important subject, and to know, that they
coincide with those which we entertain, and which we have
every reason to believe, correspond with the general sense of the
people of this city and county. We acknowledge that we feel
a very serious anxiety for the issue ; and that, from the most
mature reflection, we regard a change in the person of the
Chief Magistrate, as a matter of high importance to the tran-
quillity and prosperity of the State. Nor can we forbear, as
brethren and fellow-citizens, earnestly to exhort the inhabitants
of your county, to weigh well the importance of the opportunity
which the approaching election presents to them, and to resolve
to exercise their right of suffrage, in that unbiassed and inde-
pendent manner, which becomes a free and enlightened people.
We shall only add, that it is manifestly essential to insure suc-
cess to the attempt, that all those who concur in the expediency
of a change, should zealously unite in the support of the same
candidate.

I have the honor to be,

Gentlemen,

Your obedient servant.
By order of the committee,

Alexander Hamilton, Chairman.

ETJLOGIUM ON MAJOE-GENEEAL GEEENE.

Delivered before the Society of the Cincinnati,
July 4th, 1789.

There is no duty that could have been assigned to me by
this society which I should execute with greater alacrity than
the one I am now called upon to perform. All the motives
capable of interesting an ingenuous and feeling mind conspire to
prompt me to its execution. To commemorate the talents, virtues,
and exploits, of great and good men, is at all times a pleasing

JEt. 32.] EULOGIU.M <»N GEN. GREENE. 481

task to those who know how to esteem them. But when such
men, to the title of superior merit, join thai of having been the
defenders and guardians of onr country; when they have been
connected with as as companions in the Bame dangers, Bufferings,
misfortunes, and triumphs; when they have been allied to as in
the still more endearing character of friends; we recall the ideas
of their worth with sensations thai affect us yet more nearly, and
feel an involuntary propensity to consider their fame as our own.
We seem to appropriate to ourselves the good they have done;
to take a persona] Lnteresl in the glory they have acquired; and
to share in the very praise we bestow.

In entering upon a subject in which your feelings as well as
my own are so deeply concerned, however it might become me
to follow examples of humility, I shall refrain from a practice
perhaps not less laudable than it is common. I cannot prevail
upon myself to check the current of your sensibility by the cold
formalities of an apology for the defects of the speaker. These
can neither be concealed or extenuated by the affectation of diffi-
dence ; nor even by the genuine concessions of conscious inability.
'Tis your command, and the reverence we all bear to the me-
mory of him of whom I am to speak, that must constitute my
excuse, and my claim to your indulgence. Did I even possess
the powers of oratory, I should with reluctance attempt to
employ them upon the present occasion. The native brilliancy
of the diamond needs not the polish of art : the conspicuous
features of pre-eminent merit, need not the coloring pencil of
imagination, nor the florid decorations of rhetoric.

From you who knew and loved him, I fear not the imputa-
tion of flattery, or enthusiasm, when I indulge an expectation,
that the name of GrBEENE will at once awaken in your minds, the
images of whatever is noble and estimable in human nature.
The fidelity of the portrait I shall draw, will therefore have
nothing to apprehend from your sentence. But I dare not hope
that it will meet with equal justice from all others; or that it will
entirely escape the cavils of ignorance and the shafts of envy.
For high as this great man stood in the estimation of his country,
the whole extent of his worth was little known. The situations
B 31

482 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

in which he has appeared, though such as would have measured
the faculties and exhausted the resources of men who might justly
challenge the epithet of great, were yet incompetent to the full
display of those various, rare, and exalted endowments, with
which nature only now and then decorates a favorite, as if with
intention to astonish mankind.

As a man, the virtues of Greene are admitted ; as a patriot, he
holds a place in the foremost rank ; as a statesman, he is praised ;
as a soldier, he is admired. But in the two last characters, espe-
cially in the last but one, his reputation falls far below his
desert. It required a longer life, and still greater opportunities,
to have enabled him to exhibit, in full day, the vast, I had almost
said the enormous, powers of his mind.

The termination of the American war — not too soon for his
wishes, nor for the welfare of his country, but too soon for his
glory — put an end to his military career. The sudden termina-
tion of his life, cut him off from those scenes, which the progress
of a new, immense, and unsettled empire, could not fail to open
to the complete exertion of that universal and pervading genius
which qualified him not less for the senate than for the field.

In forming our estimate nevertheless, of his character, we are
not left to supposition and conjecture. We are not left to vague
indications or uncertain appearances, which partiality might
varnish or prejudice discolor. We have a succession of deeds,
as glorious as they are unequivocal, to attest his greatness and
perpetuate the honors of his name.

It is an observation, as just as it is common, that in those
great revolutions which occasionally convulse society, human
nature never fails to be brought forward in its brightest as
well as in its blackest colors : and it has very properly been
ranked not among the least of the advantages which compensate
for the evils they produce, that they serve to bring to light,
talents and virtues, which might otherwise have languished in
Obscurity, or only shot forth a few scattered and wandering rays.

Nathaniel Greene descended from reputable parents ; but
not placed, by birth, in that elevated rank which, under a
monarchy, is the only sure road to those employments that give

Mt. 32.] EULOGIUM ON GEN. GREENE. 483

activity and scope to abilities, must, in all probability, have con-
tented himself with the humble lo1 of a private citizen, or, at
most, with the contracted sphere of an elective office, in a colonial
and dependent government, scarcely conscious of the resources
of his own mi ml. had qo1 the violated rights of his countrj called
him to ael a pan "ii a more splendid and more ample theatre.

Happily for America, he hesitated qo1 to obej the call. The
vigor <>t' his genius, corresponding with the importance of the
prize to be contended for, overcame the natural moderation of
his i r; ami though not hurried on by enthusiasm, but

animated by an enlightened Bense of the value of free govern-
ment, he cheerfully resolved to stake his fortune, his hopes, his
life, and his honor, upon an enterprise, of the danger of which he
knew the whole magnitude : in a cause, "which was Avorthy of
the toils and of the Mood of heroes.

The sword having been appealed to, at Lexington, as the
Arbiter of the controversy between Great Britain and America,
Greene, shortly after, marched, at the head of a regiment, to
join the American forces al Cambridge; determined to abide the
awful decision.

Ee was not long there before the discerning eye of the Ame-
rican Fabius marked him out as the object of his confidence.

His abilities entitled him to a pre-eminent share in the coun-
cils of his Chief. He gained it, and he preserved it, amidst all
the checkered varieties of military vicissitude, and in defiance of all
the intrigues of jealous and aspiring rivals.

As long as the measures which conducted us safely through
the first most critical stages of the war shall be remembered with
approbation; as long as the enterprises of Trenton and Princeton
shall be regarded as thedawnings of that bright day which after-
ward.- broke forth with such resplendent lustre ; as long as the
almost magic operations of the remainder of that memorable win-
ter, distinguished not more by these < • than by the extraor-
dinary spectacle of a powerful army straitened within narrow
limits by the phantom of a military force, and never permitted
to transgress those Limits with impunity, in which skill .supplied
the place of means, and disposition was the substitute for an

484 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 32.

army ; as long, I say, as these operations shall continue to be the
objects of curiosity and wonder, so long ought the name of
Greene to be revered by a grateful country. To attribute to
him a portion of the praise which is due, as well to the forma-
tion as to the execution of the plans that effected these important
ends, can be no derogation from that wisdom and magnanimity
which knew how to select and embrace councils worthy of being
pursued.

The laurels of a Henry were never tarnished by the obliga-
tions he owed and acknowledged to a Sully.

It would be an unpleasing task, and therefore I forbear to
lift the veil from off those impotent councils, which, by a formal
vote, had decreed an undisturbed passage to an enemy returning
from the fairest fruits of his victories, to seek an asylum from
impending danger, disheartened by retreat, dispirited by deser-
tion, broken by fatigue, retiring through woods, defiles, and
morasses, in which his discipline was useless, in the face of an
army superior in numbers, elated by pursuit, and ardent to sig-
nalize their courage. 'Tis enough for the honor of Greene to
say, that he left nothing unessayed, to avert and to frustrate so
degrading a resolution. And it was happy for America, that the
man, whose reputation could not be wounded without wounding
the cause of his country, had the noble fortitude to rescue him-
self, and the army he commanded, from the disgrace with which
they were both menaced by the characteristic imbecility of a
council of war.

Unwilling to do more than merely to glance at a scene in
which the meritorious might be involved with the guilty, in pro-
miscuous censure, here let me drop the curtain, and invite you to
accompany me to the Heights of Monmouth. There let me re-
call to your indignant view, the flower of the American infantry
flying before an enemy that scarcely dared to pursue — vanquished
without a blow — vanquished by their obedience to the commands
of a leader who meditated their disgrace. Let me contrast with
this the conduct of your Greene; the calm intrepidity and
unshaken presence of mind, with which he seconded the dispo-
sitions of his General, to arrest the progress of the disorder and

JBr.39.] EULOGIUM ON GEN. GREENE. 485

retrieve the fortune of the day. Lei me recall to your recoil
tii>n thai well-timed and happy movement on the lefl of the
enemy, by which he so materially contributed to deciding the
dubi< >us event of the conflict, and turning the hesitating scale of
victorv.

Prom tin1 Heights of Monmouth I might lead you to the
Plains of Springfield, there to behold the yeteran E£nyphaussen,
at the head of a veteran army, baffled and almost beaten by a
genera] without an army aided, or rather embarrassed, by small
fugitive bodies of volunteer militia, the mimicry of soldiership !

Bui it would ill become me to detain you in the contempla-
tion of objects diminutive in comparison with those that arc to

SUCeccd.

Hitherto, we have seen the illustrious Greene acting in a
subordinate capacity, the faint glimmerings of his fame absorbed
and lost in the superior rays of a Washington. Happy was it
for him to have been called to a more explicit station. Had this
never been the case, the future historian, perplexed between the
panegyric of friends and the satire of enemies, might have
doubted in what colors to draw his true character. Accident,
alone, saved a Greene from so equivocal a late; a reflection
which might damp the noble ardor of emulation, and check the
towering flight of conscious merit.

The defeat of Camden, and the misfortune of Gates, opened
the career of victory and of glory to Greene. Congress having
resolved upon a successor to the former, the choice was left to
the Commander-in-Chief, and fell upon the latter. In this desti-
nation, honorable in proportion as it was critical, he acquiesced
with the mingled emotions of a great mind — impelled by a sense
of duty — allured by the hope of fame — apprised of the danger
and precariousness of the situation, yet confident of its own
Strength, and animated by the magnitude of the object for which
it was to be exerted.

Henceforth wc are to view him on a more exalted eminence.
He is no longer to figure in an ambiguous or secondary light :
he is to shine forth the artificer of his own glory — the leader of
armies and the deliverer of States !

486 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

To estimate properly the value of his services, it is necessary
to recur to the situation of the southern extremity of the Union
at the time he entered upon the command in that quarter.
Georgia and South Carolina subdued and overrun ; the spirit of
their people dejected and intimidated; the flame of resistance
scarcely kept alive by the transient gleams of a few expiring em-
bers; North Carolina distracted by the still recent effects of
internal commotion, dreading the hostility of a considerable part
of its own citizens, and depending, for its exertions, on the tried
valor and patriotism of the rest, more than on the energy of a
feeble and ill-organized government ; Virginia, debilitated by the
excessive efforts of its early zeal, and by the dissipation of its
revenues and forces, in Indian hostilities, in domestic projects,
encumbered by a numerous body of slaves, bound by all the laws
of degraded humanity to hate their masters ; deficient in order
and vigor in its administration ; and relying wholly, for imme-
diate defence against threatened invasion, on the resources of a
country, extensive, populous, and fertile, to be put in motion by
the same ardent and magnanimous spirit which first lighted up
the opposition to Great Britain, and set the glorious example of
resistance to America. In such a situation what was to be
hoped ? What was to be hoped from a General without troops,
without magazines, without money ? A man of less depth of
penetration or force of soul than Greene, would have recoiled at
the prospect; but he, far from desponding, undertook the ar-
duous task with firmness — with a firmness which was the result
of a well-informed estimate of a situation perilous but not despe-
rate. He knew how much was to be expected from the efforts
of men contending for the rights of man. He knew how much
was to be performed by capacity, courage, and perseverance.

Not to be disconcerted by the most complicated embarrass-
ments, nor the most discouraging prospects, he began, before he
entered upon the duties of the field, by adjusting the outlines of
the plan which was to regulate his future conduct ; a plan con-
ceived with so much wisdom, and so perfect a judgment of cir-
cumstances, that he never had occasion to depart from it in the
progress of his subsequent operations. This alone might suffice

Ar. 32;] EU LOCUM ON GEN. GREENE. 1*7

to form the eulogium of his genius, and to demonstrate thai he
was an accomplished master in the science of military command.

His next care was to endeavor to impress the neighboring
.villi a proper sense of their situation, in order to induce
them, with system and effect, to furnish the succors of which he
stood in need. To urge the collection and accelerate the arrival
of these, as well as to repel any invasion to which the State
might be exposed, he stationed, in Virginia, the Baron de Steu-
ben, an officer who merited and justified his confidence; and
having made these preliminary arrangements, he hastened to put
himself at the head of the inconsiderable remains of the Southern
army, which he joined at Charlotte, on the borders of North

ilina, destitute of every thing but courage, and an uncon-
querable attachment to the cause they had espoused.

To cuter into a ['articular detail of the operations by which
the Southern States were rescued from conquest and desolation,
and the last project of Britain for the subjugation of America
frustrated, would be to assume the province of the historian.
This, neither the occasion, nor any reasonable claim to your in-
dulgence, would justify. A general sketch is all thai can, with
propriety, be attempted, and shall limit my endeavors. To sup-
ply a • army by coercion, and yet maintain the confi-
dence and good will of the coerced: this was among the lirst and
not the least of the difficult he surmounted. But deli*
and difficult as was the task", it was, nevertheless, accomplished.
Conducted with system, moderation, and equity, even military

tions lost their rigor, and freemen venerated the hand that
reluctantly stripped them of their property for their preserva-
tion.

Having concerted the arrangements requisite to this end,
Greene, without further delay, entered upon that busy, compli-

d, and extraordinary scene, which may truly be said to form
a phenomenon in war —a scene which almost continually presents
ii.-. on the one hand, with victories ruinous to the victors ; on the
other, with retreats beneficial to the vanquished : which exhibits
to our admiration, a commander almosl constantly obliged to
lincpiish the field to his adversary, yet as constantly making ac-

488 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

quisitions upon him ; beaten to-day ; to-morrow, without a blow,
compelliDg the conqueror to renounce the very object for which
he had conquered, and, in a manner, to fly from the very foe he
had subdued. Too weak, with his collected strength, to dispute
the field with an enemy superior both in numbers and discipline,
and urged by the necessity of giving activity to the natural force
of the country, by rousing the inhabitants from the state of de-
spondency into which they had sunk, with the prospect of succor
and protection, Greene divided his little army into two parts ;
one of which he sent, under Morgan, into the western extremi-
ties of North Carolina; and, with the other, marched to Hicks'
Creek.

This movement had the desired effect. The appearance of
aid, magnified by advantages opportunely gained (though unim-
portant in themselves), rekindled this ardor of patriotic hope in
the breasts of many who had begun to despair, and emboldened
them to resume their arms, and again to repair to the standard of
liberty.

Sensible of the importance of counteracting this policy of the
American General, the British commander hesitated not about the
part he should act. Directing his first attention towards the de-
tachment under Morgan, and meditating a decisive blow against
that corps, he committed the execution of the enterprise to Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Tarleton, at the head of a thousand veterans.
Tarleton, hitherto not less the favorite of fortune than of his
chief, hastened to perform the welcome duty ; anticipating an
easy triumph over foes inferior both in numbers and discipline ;
and dreaming not of the reverse which was destined to confound
his hopes, and even to sully the lustre of his former fame. In
the very grasp of victory, when not to combat but to slaughter
seemed all that remained to be done, the forward intrepidity of
a Washington, seconded by the cool, determined bravery of a
Howard, snatched the trophy from his too eager and too exulting
hand. He was discomfited and routed. The greater part of his
followers were either killed or taken ; and the remaining few,
with himself, were glad to find safety in flight.

Here first the bright dawn of prosperity began to dispel that

jEt. 32.] EULOGIUM ON GEN. GREENE. 489

gloomy cloud which had for some time lowered over the Southern
horizon! Thunderstruck at so unexpected a disaster, and ill
able to spare so considerable a part of his force, Cornwall is re-
solved, at every sacrifice, to attempt the recovery of his captive
troops. The trial of ski Hid exertion between the Generals, and
of patient fortitude between the troops, to which that attempt
gave occasion, was such as to render it difficult to pronounce to
whom the palm of merit ought to be decreed. Abandoning
whatever might impede the celerity of his motions, Cornwallis
began and urged the pursuit of the detachment under Morgan,
with a rapidity seldom equalled, never surpassed. While, on
the other hand, the provident and active Greene spared no exer-
tion to disappoint his enterprising adversary.

Anxious for the security of that detachment, with their pris-
oners, and desirous of affecting a reunion of his forces, now ren-
dered necessary by a change of circumstances, he gave instant
orders for the march of the body under his immediate command
to Guilford Court-House ; and hastened, in person, through the
country, a hundred and fifty miles, to join General Morgan,
whom he came up with on the banks of Catawba. Thus, placed
in front of the enemy, he was the better able to counteract their
immediate design, and to direct the co-operation necessary to the
intended junction. So well were his measures taken, that he
succeeded in both objects. The prisoners were carried off in
safety ; and Guilford Court-IIouse, the destined place of rendez-
vous, received and reunited the two divisions of the American
army. Still, however, too weak to keep the field in the face of
his enemy, a further retreat became inevitable. A resolution
was accordingly taken to retire beyond the Dan. Here a new
ami not less arduous trial of skill ensued. To get between the
American army and Virginia ; intercept their supplies and rein-
forcements ; and oblige them to fight on disadvantageous terms :
this now became the object of Cornwallis. With this view he
directed his march into the upper country, where the rivers were
fordable with facility; flattering himself that the depth of the
waters below, and the want of boats, would oppose insuperable
obstacles to the expeditious passage of the American troops. To

490 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

retard the progress of the British army was, of course, an indis-
pensable policy on the part of Greene. For this purpose, he
practised every expedient which a mind, fertile in resource, could
devise. And so efficacious were the expedients he adopted,
that, surmounting all the impediments in his way, he completed
his retreat across the Dan, without loss of men, baggage, or
stores.

Such, nevertheless, was the energy of the pursuit, that in
crossing the three principal rivers, the Catawba, the Yadken, and
the Dan, the British troops, in a manner, trod upon the heels of
the American. In the passage of the last of the three, the van
of the enemy's army reached one shore, almost at the very mo-
ment that the rear of ours landed on the opposite.

Cornwallis, upon this occasion, imitating Charles the Twelfth
of Sweden, when the celebrated Schulenburgh made good his
retreat across the Oder, in spite of the utmost efforts of that vig-
orous and enterprising monarch, might, with propriety, have ex-
claimed, This day, at least, Greene has conquered me ! The art
of retreating is perhaps the most difficult in the art of war. To
have effected a retreat in the face of so ardent a pursuit, through
so great an extent of country ; through a country offering every
obstacle ; affording scarcely any resource ; with troops destitute
of every thing, who a great part of the way left the vestiges of
their march in their own blood : to have done all this, I say,
without loss of any kind, may, without exaggeration, be denomi-
nated a masterpiece of military skill and exertion. Disappointed
in his first aim, Cornwallis now retired from the Dan to Guilford
Court-House. Having driven the American army out of North
Carolina, he flattered himself that his efforts would at least be
productive of the advantage of an accession of force, by en-
couraging the numerous royalists of that State to repair to his
standard. Greene, not without apprehensions that the hopes of
his competitor, in this respect, might be realized, lost not a mo-
ment, after receiving a small reinforcement from Virginia, in
recrossing the Dan, to take post in the vicinity of the British
army, and interrupt their communication with the country.
Three weeks passed in a constant scene of military manoeuvre :

Met. 39.] EULOGIUM ON (,' K \ . GREENE. MM

< 'ornwallis, equally striving to bring his antagonist I < an action ;
and Greene, adroitly endeavoring to elude it: yel withoul re-
nouncing such a position as would enable him to prevenl both
supplies and reinforcements. ( m thia occasion he played tin'
pari of Turenne; and he played ii with complete succ The

relative position which he took and maintained, and the trag
fate of a body of royalists, intercepted in their way to the British
army, destroyed every prospecl of thai aid which they, do1 with-
out reason, had promised themselves from their adherents in
V i th < 'arolina.

Virginia, in the mean time, awakened by the presence of
dan erted herself to reinforce the American army. Greene,

speedily finding himself in a condition to outnumber his adver-
sary, resolved to offer thai battle which he had hitherto declined.
He considered that, in the existing circumstances, a defeal must
be, to the enemy, absolute ruin; while to him, from his superi-
ority in cavalry, united with other advantages, it could be
nothing more than a partial misfortune, and must be com-
pensated at a price which the enemy could not afford to pay
for it.

The two armies, now equally willing to try the fortune .

tie, met and cniraircd near Guilford Court-House. All that
could be expected from able disposition towards insuring success,
promised a favorable issue to the American arms. Bu1 superior
discipline carried it against superior numbers and superior skill.
Victory decreed the glory of the combat to the Britons; hut
Heaven, confirming the hopes of Greene, decreed the advantage
of it to the Americans. Greene retired; Cornwallis kept the
tield. Bu1 Greene retired only three miles: and Cornwallis, in

three days, abandoning the place where tin- laurels he had

gained were a slender compensation for the loss he had suffei

withdrew to Wilmington on the Bea-coast.

This victory cost him a large proportion of the flower of his

army; and it cost him a Webster.

I [ere occurred the problem, on the right solution of which de-
led the fame of Greene and the fate of the Southern States.

There was every probability that the next movement of Corn-

492 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 32.

wallis would be towards a junction with Arnold for the invasion
of Virginia. Was the American General to keep pace with his
adversary in his northern career, in order to resist his future
enterprises ? Or, was he to return into the field he had lately-
left, to endeavor to regain what had been there lost ? The first,
as the most obvious, and, in a personal light, the least perilous
course, would have been thought most eligible by an ordinary
mind. But the last, as the wisest, though, to his own reputation,
the most hazardous, appeared preferable to the comprehensive
eye and adventurous spirit of a Greene.

On the one hand, he concluded, justly, that Virginia might
safely be trusted to her own strength and resources, and to the
aid which, if necessary, she might derive from the North,
against all the force which the enemy were then able to employ
in that quarter. On the other hand, he foresaw, that if South
Carolina and Georgia should be abandoned to the situation in
which they then were, they would quickly have abandoned
themselves to despair; would have lost even the spirit of op-
position; and might have been rendered, in several respects,
subservient to the future progress of their conqueror. Under
these impressions he determined to return into South Carolina,
to attempt the recovery of that and its neighboring State.

This was one of those strokes that denote superior genius,
and constitute the sublime of war. 'Twas Scipio leaving Hanni-
bal in Italy, to overcome him at Carthage !

The success was answerable to the judicious boldness of the
design. The enemy were divested of their acquisitions in South
Carolina and Georgia, with a rapidity which, if not ascertained,
would scarcely be credible. In the short space of two months,
all their posts in the interior of the country were reduced. The
perseverance, courage, enterprise, and resource, displayed by the
American General in the course of these events, commanded the
admiration even of his enemies. In vain was he defeated in one
mode of obtaining his object: another was instantly substituted
that answered the end. In vain was he repulsed from before a
besieged fortress : he immediately found other means of compel-

jEt. 32.] EULOGIUM ON GEN. GREENE. 493

ling its defenders to relinquish their stronghold. Where force
Sailed, address and stratagem still won the prize.

Saving deprived the enemy of all their posts in the interior
of the country, ami having wasted their forces in a variety of
ways, Greene now thought himself in a condition to aim a de-
cisive blow at the mutilated remains of the British army, and, at
least, to oblige them to take refuge within the lines of Charleston.
With this view, he collected his forces into one body, and
marched to give battle to the enemy, then stationed at the
Springs of the Kutaw.

A general action took place. Animated, obstinate, and
bloody, was the contest. The front line of the American army
consisting of militia, after beginning a brisk attack, began to
give way. At this critical and inauspicious juncture, Greene,
"with that collected intrepidity which never forsook him, gave
orders to the second line, composed of Continentals, to advance
to the charge with trailed arms. This order, enforced by exam-
ple, and executed with matchless composure and constancy,
could not fail of success. The British veterans shrunk from the
American bayonet. They were routed and pursued a consider-
able distance. Numbers of them fell into the hands of their
pursuers, and the remainder were threatened with a similar fate;
when, arriving at a position which, with peculiar advantages, in-
vited to a fresh stand, they rallied, and renewed the action. In
vain did the intrepid Washington, at the head of the pursu-
ing detachment, redouble the ciforts of his valor, to dislodge
them from this new station. He was himself wounded and
made a prisoner, and his followers, in their turn, compelled to
retire.

But though the enemy, by an exertion of bravery which
demands our esteem, saved themselves from the total ruin which
was ready to overwhelm them ; they had, nevertheless, received
too severe a blow to attempt any longer to maintain a footing in
the open country. They, accordingly, the day following, re-
treated towards Charleston; leaving behind them their wounded,
and a considerable quantity of arms. Here ended all serious
offensive operations in the South! The predatory excursions

494 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

which intervened between the battle of the Eutaw and the evac-
uation of Charleston and Savannah, deserve not a place in the
catalogue of military achievements. But before we take leave
of a scene as honorable as it was advantageous to the American
arms, it behooves us to stop for a moment, to pay the tribute of
merited applause to the memory of that gallant officer, who, at
the head of the Virginia line, fell in this memorable conflict.
More anxious, to the last, about his country than himself, in the
very agonies of departing life, he eagerly inquired which of the
contending parties prevailed ; and having learned that his coun-
trymen were victorious, he like another Epaminondas yielded up
his last breath in this noble exclamation: " Then do I die con-
tented.1' Heroic Campbell ! How enviable was such a death !

The evacuation of the two capitals of South Carolina and
Georgia, entirely restored those States to their own governments
and laws. They now hailed the illustrious Greene as their de-
fender and deliverer. Their gratitude was proportioned to the
extent of the benefits resulting from his services ; nor did it show
itself in words only, but was manifested by acts that did honor
to their generosity. Consecrated in the affections of their citizens
to the remotest posterity, the fame of Greene will ever find in
them, a more durable, as well as a more flattering, memorial,
than in the proudest monuments of marble or brass.

But where, alas, is now this consummate General ; this brave
Soldier ; this discerning Statesman ; this steady Patriot ; this
virtuous Citizen ; this amiable Man ? Why could not so many
talents, so many virtues, so many bright and useful qualities,
shield him from a premature grave ? Why was he not longer
spared to a country he so dearly loved ; which he was so well
able to serve ; which still seems so much to stand in need of his
services ? Why was he only allowed to assist in laying the foun-
dation, and not permitted to aid in rearing the superstructure,
of American greatness? Such are the inquiries which our
friendly, yet short-sighted regrets, would naturally suggest. But
inquiries like these are to be discarded as presumptuous. 'Tis
not for us to scan, but to submit to the dispensations of Heaven.

Let us content ourselves with revering the memory, imitating

jEt. 32.] eim.oi;ii;m on <;i:\. <;ki:i:\i:
the virtues, and, as far as we dare, emulating the glory of the
man, whom neither our warmesl admiration, nor our fom
predilection, could proted from the fatal shaft. And as oftei
we indulge our sorrow for his loss, lei usnol fail to mingle the
reflection, that he has lefl behind him, offspring who are the
heirs to the friendship which we l>ore to the father, and who 1;
a claim from many, if not from all of as, to cares not Less than
parental

END OF VOL. II.

OCT 2 7 1933

,


===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 3) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander03hami/worksofalexander03hami_djvu.txt

NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES

3 3433 08173707 8

HAMILTON'S WORKS.

VOL. III.

THE WORKS

OF

ALEXANDER HAMILTON;

COMPRISING

HIS CORRESPONDENCE,

AND

HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WHITINGS,

EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST

CIVIL AND MILITARY.

PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

BY ORDER OF

THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.

EDITED BY

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

AUTHOR OF "THE LIFE OF HAMILTON.1

nT / — V ■— — j ' j \ -

■y f /■ y \ > , • • .

; ■ : •/

NEW-YORK:
JOHN F. TROW, PRINTER, 49, 51 & 53 ANN-STREET

M.DCCC.L.

Peeked
Mav ioi*

ok

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850. by

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern

District of New- York.

jEt. 33.]

FINANCE.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

PUBLIC CBEDIT.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 14, 1790.

Treasury Department, January 9, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the resolu-
tion of the House of Eepresentatives of the twenty-first day of
September last, has, during the recess of Congress, applied him-
self to the consideration of a proper plan for the support of the
public credit, with all the attention which was due to the author-
ity of the House, and to the magnitude of the object.

In the discharge of this duty, he has felt, in no small degree, "■
the anxieties which naturally flow from a just estimate of the
difficulty of the task, from a well founded diffidence of his own
qualifications for executing it with success, and from a deep and
solemn conviction of the momentous nature of the truth contained
in the resolution under which his investigations have been con-
ducted, " That an adequate provision for the support of the pub-
plic credit is a matter of high importance to the honor and pros-
perity of the United States."

With an ardent desire that his well meant endeavors may be
conducive to the real advantage of the nation, and with the ut-
most deference to the superior judgment of the House, he now

c 1

2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

respectfully submits the result of his inquiries and reflections to
their indulgent construction.

In the opinion of the Secretary, the -wisdom of the House, in
giving their explicit sanction to the proposition which has been
stated, cannot but be applauded by all who will seriously consider
and trace, through their obvious consequences, these plain and
undeniable truths :

That exigencies are to be expected to occur, in the affairs of
nations, in which there will be a necessity for borrowing.

That loans in times of public danger, especially from foreign
war, are found an indispensable resource, even to the wealthiest
of them.

And that, in a country which, like this, is possessed of little
active wealth, or, in other words, little moneyed capital, the
necessity for that resource must, in such emergencies, be propor-
tionably urgent.

And as, on the one hand, the necessity for borrowing, in par-
ticular emergencies, cannot be doubted, so, on the other, it is
equally evident, that, to be able to borrow upon good terms, it is
essential that the credit of a nation should be well established.

For, when the credit of a country is in any degree question-
able, it never fails to give an extravagant premium, in one shape
or another, upon all the loans it has occasion to make. Nor
does the evil end here ; the same disadvantage must be sustained
upon whatever is to be bought on terms of future payment.

From this constant necessity of borrowing and buying dear,
it is easy to conceive how immensely the expenses of a nation, in a
course of time, will be augmented by an unsound state of the
public credit.

To attempt to enumerate the complicated variety of mischiefs
in the whole system of the social economy, which proceed from
a neglect of the maxims that uphold public credit, and justify the
solicitude manifested by the House on this point, would be an
improper intrusion on their time and patience.

In so strong a light, nevertheless, do they appear to the Sec-
retary, that, on their due observance, at the present critical
juncture, materially depends, in his judgment, the individual and

^Et. 33.] FINANCE. 3

aggregate prosperity of the citizens of the United States ; their
relief from the embarrassments they now experience ; their cha-
racter as a people ; the cause of good government.

If the maintenance of public credit, then, be truly so impor-
tant, the next inquiry which suggests itself is, By what means is
it to be effected? The ready answer to which question is, by
good faith ; by a punctual performance of contracts. States, like
individuals, who observe their engagements, are respected and
trusted, while the reverse is the fate of those who pursue an op-
posite conduct.

Every breach of the public engagements, whether from
choice or necessity, is, in different degrees, hurtful to public credit.
When such a necessity does truly exist, the evils of it are only
to be palliated by a scrupulous attention, on the part of the
Government, to carry the violation no further than the necessity
absolutely requires, and to manifest, if the nature of the case
admit of it, a sincere disposition to make reparation whenever
circumstances shall permit. But, with every possible mitigation,
credit must suffer, and numerous mischiefs ensue. It is, there-
fore, highly important, when an appearance of necessity seems to
press upon the public councils, that they should examine well its
reality, and be perfectly assured that there is no method of
escaping from it, before they yield to its suggestions. For,
though it cannot safely be affirmed that occasions have never
existed, or may not exist, in which violations of the public faith,
in this respect, are inevitable; yet there is great reason t(
believe, that they exist far less frequently than precedents indi-
cate, and are oftenest either pretended, through levity or want of
firmness ; or supposed, through want of knowledge. Expedients
often have been devised to effect, consistently with good faith,
what has been done in contravention of it. Those who are most
commonly creditors of a nation, are, generally speaking, enlight-
ened men ; and there are signal examples to warrant a conclu-
sion, that, when a candid and fair appeal is made to them, they
will understand their true interest too well to refuse their con-
currence in such modifications of their claims as any real neces •
sity may demand.

4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 33.

While the observance of that good faith, which is the basis of
public credit, is recommended by the strongest inducements of
political expediency, it is enforced by considerations of still
greater authority. There are arguments for it which rest on the
immutable principles of moral obligation. And in proportion as
the mind is disposed to contemplate, in the order of Providence,
an intimate connection between public virtue and public happi-
ness, will be its repugnancy to a violation of those principles.

This reflection derives additional strength from the nature of
the debt of the United States. It was the price of liberty. The
faith of America has been repeatedly pledged for it, and with
solemnities that give peculiar force to the obligation. There is,
indeed, reason to regret that it has not hitherto been kept ; that
the necessities of the war, conspiring with inexperience in the
subjects of finance, produced direct infractions; and that "the
subsequent period has been a continued scene of negative viola-
tion or non-compliance. But a diminution of this regret arises
from the reflection, that the last seven years have exhibited an
earnest and uniform effort, on the part of the Government of the
Union, to retrieve the national credit, by doing justice to the
creditors of the nation ; and that the embarrassments of a de-
fective constitution, which defeated this laudable effort, have
ceased.

From this evidence of a favorable disposition given by the
former Government, the institution of a new one, clothed with
powers competent to calling forth the resources of the communi-
ty, has excited correspondent expectations. A general belief
accordingly prevails, that the credit of the United States will
quickly be established on the firm foundation of an effectual pro-
vision for the existing debt. The influence which this has had
at home, is witnessed by the rapid increase that has taken place
in the market value of the public securities. From January to
November, they rose thirty -three and a third per cent. ; and,
from that period to this time, they have risen fifty per cent,
more ; and the intelligence from abroad announces effects pro-
portionably favorable to our national credit and consequence.

It cannot but merit particular attention, that, among ourselves,

JEt. 33.J FINANCE. 5

the most enlightened friends of good government are those
whose expectations are the highest.

To justify and preserve their confidence; to promote the
increasing respectability of the American name ; to answer the
calls of justice ; to restore landed property to its due value ; to
furnish new resources, both to agriculture and commerce ; to
cement more closely the union of the States ; to add to their
security against foreign attack ; to establish public order on the
basis of an upright and liberal policy ; — these are the great and
invaluable ends to be secured by a proper and adequate provi-
sion, at the present period, for the support of public credit.

To this provision we are invited, not only by the general
considerations which have been noticed, but by others of a more
particular nature. It will procure, to every class of the commu-
nity, some important advantages, and remove some no less im-
portant disadvantages.

The advantage to the public creditors, from the increased
value of that part of their property which constitutes the public
debt, needs no explanation.

But there is a consequence of this, less obvious, though not
less true, in which every other citizen is interested. It is a well
known fact, that, in countries in which the national debt is
properly funded, and an object of established confidence, it
answers most of the purposes of money. Transfers of stock or
public debt, are there equivalent to payments in specie ; or, in
other words, stock, in the principal transactions of business,
passes current as specie. The same thing would, in all proba-
bility, happen here under the like circumstances.

The benefits of this are various and obvious :

First. Trade is extended by it, because there is a larger capital
to carry it on, and the merchant can, at the same time, afford to
trade for smaller profits ; as his stock, which, when unemployed,
brings him in an interest from the Government, serves him also
as money when he has a call for it in his commercial operations.

Secondly. Agriculture and manufactures are also promoted by
it, for the like reason, that more capital can be commanded to
be employed in both ; and because the merchant, whose enter-

b HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

prise in foreign trade gives to them activity and extension, has
greater means for enterprise.

Thirdly. The interest of money will be lowered by it; for this
is always in a ratio to the quantity of money, and to the quick-
ness of circulation. This circumstance will enable both the pub-
lic and individuals to borrow on easier and cheaper terms.

And from the combination of these effects, additional aids
will be furnished to labor, to industry, and to arts of every kind.
But these good effects of a public debt are only to be looked for,
when, by being well funded, it has acquired an adequate and
stable value ; till then, it has rather a contrary tendency. The
fluctuation and insecurity incident to it, in an unfunded state,
render it a mere commodity, and a precarious one. As such,
being only an object of occasional and particular speculation, all
the money applied to it is so much diverted from the more useful
channels of circulation, for which the thing itself affords no sub-
stitute ; so that, in fact, one serious inconvenience of an unfunded
debt is, that it contributes to the scarcity of money.

This dictinction, which has been little if at all attended to, is
of the greatest moment ; it involves a question immediately
interesting to every part of the community, which is no other
than this : Whether the public debt, by a provision for it on true
principles, shall be rendered a substitute for money ; or whether,
by being left as it is, or by being provided for in such a manner
as will wound those principles, and destroy confidence, it shall
be suffered to continue as it is, a pernicious drain of our cash
from the channels of productive industry ?

The effect which the funding of the public debt, on right
principles, would have upon landed property, is one of the cir-
cumstances attending such an arrangement, which has been least
adverted to, though it deserves the most particular attention.
The present depreciated state of that species of property is a
serious calamity. The value of cultivated lands, in most of the
States, has fallen, since the Revolution, from twenty-five to fifty
per cent. In those further south, the decrease is still more con-
siderable. Indeed, if the representations continually received
from that quarter may be credited, lands there will command no

JEt. 33.] FINANCE. 7

price which may not be deemed an almost total sacrifice. This
decrease in the value of lands, ought, in a great measure, to be
attributed to the scarcity of money ; consequently, whatever pro-
duces an augmentation of the moneyed capital of the country,
must have a proportional effect in raising that value. The bene-
ficial tendency of a funded debt, in this respect, has been mani-
fested by the most decisive experience in Great Britain.

The proprietors of lands would not only feel the benefit of this
increase in the value of their property, and of a more prompt and
better sale, when they had occasion to sell, but the necessity of
selling would be itself greatly diminished. As the same cause
would contribute to the facility of loans, there is reason to be-
lieve that such of them as are indebted, would be able, through
that resource, to satisfy their more urgent creditors.

It ought not, however, to be expected, that the advantages
described as likely to result from funding the public debt, would
be instantaneous. It might require some time to bring the value of
stock to its natural level, and to attach to it that fixed confidence
which is necessary to its quality as money. Yet the late rapid
rise of the public securities encourages an expectation that the
progress of stock, to the desirable point, will be much more ex-
peditious than could have been foreseen. And as, in the mean
time, it will be increasing in value, there is room to conclude
that it will, from the outset, answer many of the purposes in
contemplation. Particularly, it seems to be probable, that from
creditors, who are not themselves necessitous, it will early meet
with a ready reception in payment of debts, at its current price.

Having now taken a concise view of the inducements to a
proper provision for the public debt, the next inquiry which pre-
sents itself is, What ought to be the nature of such a provision ?
This requires some preliminary discussions.

It is agreed, on all hands, that that part of the debt which has
been contracted abroad, and is denominated the foreign debt,
ought to be provided for according to the precise terms of
the contracts relating to it. The discussions which can arise,
therefore, will have reference essentially to the domestic part of
it, or to that which has been contracted at home. It is to be

8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

regretted that there is not the same unanimity of sentiment on
this part as on the other.

The Secretary has too much deference for the opinions of
every part of the community, not to have observed one, which
has more than once made its appearance in the public prints, and
which is occasionally to be met with in conversation. It involves
this question : Whether a discrimination ought not to be made
between original holders of the public securities, and present pos-
sessors, by purchase ? Those who advocate a discrimination, are
for making a full provision for the securities of the former at
their nominal value ; but contend that the latter ought to receive
no more than the cost to them, and the interest. And the idea is
sometimes suggested, of making good the difference to the primi-
tive possessor.

In favor of this scheme, it is alleged, that it would be unrea-
sonable to pay twenty shillings in the pound, to one who had not
given more for it than three or four. And it is added, that it
would be hard to aggravate the misfortune of the first owner,
who, probably, through necessity, parted with his property at so
great a loss, by obliging him to contribute to the profit of the
person who had speculated on his distresses.

The Secretary, after the most mature reflection on the force
of this argument, is induced to reject the doctrine it contains, as
equally unjust and impolitic; as highly injurious, even to the
original holders of public securities ; as ruinous to public credit.

It is inconsistent with justice, because, in the first place, it is
a breach of contract — a violation of the rights of a fair purchaser.

The nature of the contract, in its origin, is, that the public
will pay the sum expressed in the security, to the first holder or
his assignee. The intent in making the security assignable, is,
that the proprietor may be able to make use of his property, by
selling it for as much as it may be worth in the market, and that
the buyer may be safe in the purchase.

Every buyer, therefore, stands exactly in the place of the
seller ; has the same right with him to the identical sum expressed
in the security; and, having acquired that right, by fair pur-
chase, and in conformity to the original agreement and intention

Mi. 33.]

FINANCE. 9

of the Government, his claim cannot be disputed without manifest
inj ustice.

That he is to be considered as a fair purchaser, results from
this : whatever necessity the seller may have been under, was
occasioned by the Government, in not making a proper provision
for its debts. The buyer had no agency in it, and therefore
ought not to suffer. He is not even chargeable with having
taken an undue advantage. He paid what the commodity was
worth in the market, and took the risks of reimbursement upon
himself. He, of course, gave a fair equivalent, and ought to reap
the benefit of his hazard — a hazard which was far from inconsi-
derable, and which, perhaps, turned on little less than a revo-
lution in government.

That the case of those who parted with their securities, from
necessity, is a hard one, cannot be denied. But, whatever com-
plaint of injury, or claim of redress, they may have, respects the
Government solely. They have not only nothing to object to
the persons who relieved their necessities, by giving them the cur-
rent price of their property, but they are even under an implied
condition to contribute to the reimbursement of those persons.
They knew that, by the terms of the contract with themselves,
the public were bound to pay to those to whom they should
convey their title the sums stipulated to be paid to them ;. and
that, as citizens of the United States, they were to bear their
proportion of the contribution for that purpose. This, by the
act of assignment, they tacitly engage to do ; and, if they had an
option, they could not, with integrity or good faith, refuse to do
it, without the consent of those to whom they sold.

But, though many of the original holders sold from necessity,
it does not follow that this was the case with all of them. It
may well be supposed that some of them did it either through
want of confidence in an eventual provision, or from the allure-
ments of some profitable speculation. How shall these different
classes be discriminated from each other ? How shall it be ascer-
tained, in any case, that the money which the original holder ob-
tained for his security, was not more beneficial to him, than if he
had held it to the present time, to avail himself of the provision

c 2

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 33.

which, shall be made ? How shall it be known whether, if the
purchaser had employed his money in some other way, he would
not be in a better situation than by having applied it in the pur-
chase of securities, though he should now receive their full
amount ? And, if neither of these things can be known, how
shall it be determined, whether a discrimination, independent of
the breach of contract, would not do a real injury to purchasers ;
and, if it included a compensation to the primitive proprietors,
would not give them an advantage to which they had no equita-
ble pretension ?

It may well be imagined, also, that there are not wanting
instances, in which individuals, urged by a present necessity,
parted with the securities received by them from the public, and
shortly after replaced them with others, as an indemnity for their
first loss. Shall they be deprived of the indemnity which they
have endeavored to secure by so provident an arrangement ?

Questions of this sort, on a close inspection, multiply them-
selves without end, and demonstrate the injustice of a discrimi-
nation, even on the most subtile calculations of equity, abstracted
from the obligation of contract.

The difficulties, too, of regulating the details of a plan for
that purpose, which would have even the semblance of equity,
would be found immense. It may well be doubted, whether
they would not be insurmountable, and replete with such absurd
as well as inequitable consequences, as to disgust even the pro-
posers of the measure.

As a specimen of its capricious operation, it will be sufficient
to notice the effect it would have upon two persons, who may be
supposed, two years ago, to have purchased, each, securities, at
three shillings in the pound, and one of them to retain those
bought by him, till the discrimination should take place ; the
other, to have parted with those bought by him, within a month
past, at nine shillings. The former, who had had most confi-
dence in the Government, would, in this case, only receive at
the rate of three shillings, and the interest ; while the latter, who
had had less confidence, would receive for what cost him the
same money, at the rate of nine shillings, and his representative,
standing in his place, would be entitled to a like rate.

JEt. 33.] FINANCE. 11

The impolicy of a discrimination results from two considera-
tions : one, that it proceeds upon a principle destructive of that
quality of the public debt, or the stock of the nation, which is
essential to its capacity for answering the purposes of money,
that is, the security of transfer ; the other, that, as well on this
account as because it includes a breach of faith, it renders pro-
perty, in the funds, less valuable, consequently, induces lenders
to demand a higher premium for what they lend, and produces
every other inconvenience of a bad state of public credit.

It will be perceived, at first sight, that the transferable quality
of stock is essential to its operation as money, and that this de-
pends on the idea of complete security to the transferee, and a
firm persuasion, that no distinction can, in any circumstances, be
made between him and the original proprietor.

The precedent of an invasion of this fundamental principle,
would, of course, tend to deprive the community of an advan-
tage with which no temporary saving could bear the least com-
parison.

And it will as readily be perceived, that the same cause would
operate a diminution of the value of stock in the hands of the
first as well as of every other holder. The price which any man
who should incline to purchase, would be willing to give for it,
would be in a compound ratio to the immediate profit it afforded,
and the chance of the continuance of his profit. If there was
supposed to be any hazard of the latter, the risk would be taken
into the calculation, and either there would be no purchase at all,
or it would be at a proportionably less price.

For this diminution of the value of stock, every person who
should be about to lend to the Government, would demand com-
pensation, and would add to the actual difference between the
nominal and the market value, an equivalent for the chance of
greater decrease, which, in a precarious state of public credit, is
always to be taken into the account. Every compensation of
this sort, it is evident, would be an absolute loss to the Go-
vernment.

In the preceding discussion of the impolicy of a discrimina-
tion, the injurious tendency of it to those who continue to be the

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 33.

holders of the securities they received from the Government, has
been explained. Nothing need be added on this head, except
that this is an additional and interesting light in which the injus-
tice of the measure may be seen. It would not only divest
present proprietors, by purchase, of the rights they had acquired
under the sanction of public faith, but it would depreciate the
property of the remaining original holders. It is equally unne-
cessary to add any thing to what has been already said, to de-
monstrate the fatal influence which the principle of discrimination
would have on the public credit.

But there is still a point of view, in which it will appear per-
haps even more exceptionable than in either of the former. It
would be repugnant to an express provision of the Constitution
of the United States. This provision is, that " all debts con-
tracted, and engagements entered into, before the adoption of
that Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States un-
der it, as under the Confederation ;" which amounts to a consti-

- 1

tutional ratification of the contracts respecting the debt, in the
state in which they existed under the Confederation. And, re-
sorting to that standard, there can be no doubt that the rights of
assignees and original holders must be considered as equal. In
exploding thus fully the principle of discrimination, the Secre-
tary is happy in reflecting, that he is only the advocate of what
has been already sanctioned by the formal and express authority
of the Government of the Union, in these emphatic terms : " The
remaining class of creditors," say Congress, in their circular ad-
dressed to the States, of the 26th April, 1783, " is composed of
such of our fellow-citizens as originally lent to the public the use
of their funds, or have since manifested most confidence in their
country, by receiving transfers from the lenders ; and partly of
those whose property has been either advanced or assumed for
the public service. To discriminate the merits of these several
descriptions of creditors, would be a task equally unnecessary
and invidious. • If the voice of humanity pleads more loudly in
favor of some than of others, the voice of policy, no less than of
justice, pleads in favor of all. A wise nation will never permit
those who relieve the wants of their country, or who rely most

Mt. 33.] FINANCE. 13

on its faith, its firmness, and its resources, when either of them
is distrusted, to suffer bj the event."

The Secretary, concluding that a discrimination between the
different classes of creditors of the United States cannot, with
propriety, be made, proceeds to examine whether a difference
ought to be permitted to remain between them and another de-
scription of public creditors — those of the States, individually.
The Secretary, after mature reflection on this point, entertains a
full conviction, that an assumption of the debts of the particular
States by the Union, and a like provision for them, as for those
of the Union, will be a measure of sound policy and substantial
justice.

It would, in the opinion of the Secretary, contribute, in an
eminent degree, to an orderly, stable, and satisfactory arrange-
ment of the national finances. Admitting, as ought to be the
case, that a provision must be made, in some way or other, for
the entire debt, it will follow that no greater revenues will be re-
quired, whether that provision be made wholly by the United
States, or partly by them, and partly by the States separately.

The principal question, then, must be, whether such a pro-
vision cannot be more conveniently and effectually made, by one
general plan, issuing from one authority, than by different plans
originating in different authorities ? In the first case, there can
be no competition for resources ; in the last, there must be such
a competition. The consequences of this, without the greatest
caution on both sides, might be interfering regulations, and
thence, collision and confusion. Particular branches of industry
might also be oppressed by it. The most productive objects of
revenue are not numerous. Either these must be wholly en-
grossed by one side, which might lessen the efficacy of the pro-
visions by the other, or both must have recourse to the same
objects, in different modes, which might occasion an accumula-
tion upon them, beyond what they could properly bear. If this
should not happen, the caution requisite to avoiding it, would
prevent the revenue's deriving the full benefit of each object.
The danger of interference and of excess, would be apt to im-
pose restraints very unfriendly to the complete command of those

14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

resources which are the most convenient, and to compel the
having recourse to others, less eligible in themselves, and less
agreeable to the community. The difficulty of an effectual com-
mand of the public resources, in case of separate provisions for
the debt, may be seen in another, and, perhaps, more striking
light. It would naturally happen that different States, from
local considerations, would, in some instances, have recourse to
different objects, in others to the same objects, in different de-
grees, for procuring the funds of which they stood in need. It
is easy to conceive hoAv this diversity would affect the aggregate
revenue of the country. By the supposition, articles which
yielded a full supply in some States, would yield nothing, or an
insufficient product, in others. And hence, the public revenue
would not derive the full benefit of those articles from State regu-
lations ; neither could the deficiencies be made good by those of
the Union. It is a provision of the national Constitution, that
" all duties, imposts, and excises, shall be uniform throughout the
United States." And, as the General Government would be un
der a necessity, from motives of policy, of paying regard to the
duty which may have been previously imposed upon any article,
though but in a single State, it would be constrained either to
refrain wholly from any further imposition upon such article,
where it had been already rated as high as was proper, or to con-
fine itself to the difference between the existing rate and what
the article would reasonably bear. Thus the pre-occupancy of
an article by a single State, would tend to arrest or abridge the
impositions of the Union on that article. And as it is supposa-
ble, that a great variety of articles might be placed in this situa-
tion, by dissimilar arrangements of the particular States, it is
evident that the aggregate revenue of the country would be
likely to be very materially contracted by the plan of separate
provisions.

If all the public creditors receive their dues from one source,
distributed with an equal hand, their interest will be the same.
And, having the same interests, they will unite in the support of
the fiscal arrangements of the Government — as these, too, can be
made with more convenience where there is no competition.

Mt. 33.] FINANCE. 15

These circumstances combined, will insure to the revenue laws a
more ready and more satisfactory execution.

If, on the contrary, there are distinct provisions, there will be
distinct interests, drawing different ways. That union and con-
cert of views, among the creditors, which in every Government
is of great importance to their security, and to that of public
credit, will not only not exist, but will be likely to give place to
mutual jealousy and opposition. And from this cause, the ope-
ration of the systems which may be adopted, both by the particu-
lar States and by the Union, with relation to their respective
debts, will be in danger of being counteracted.

There are several reasons, which render it probable that the
situation of the State creditors would be worse than that of the
creditors of the Union, if there be not a national assumption of
the State debts. Of these it will be sufficient to mention two :
one, that a principal branch of revenue is exclusively vested in
the Union ; the other, that a State must always be checked in
the imposition of taxes on articles of consumption, from the
want of power to extend the same regulation to the other States,
and from the tendency of partial duties to injure its industry and
commerce. Should the State creditors stand upon a less eligible
footing than the others, it is unnatural to expect they would see
with pleasure a provision for them. The influence which their
dissatisfaction might have, could not but operate injuriously, both
for the creditors and the credit of the United States. Hence it
is even the interest of the creditors of the Union, that those of
the individual States should be comprehended in a general pro-
vision. Any attempt to secure to the former either exclusive or
peculiar advantages, would materially hazard their interests.
Neither would it be just, that one class of public creditors should
be more favored than the other. The objects for which both de-
scriptions of the debt were contracted, are in the main the same.
Indeed, a great part of the particular debts of the States has
arisen from assumptions by them on account of the Union. And
it is most equitable, that there should be the same measure of
retribution for all. There is an objection, however, to an as-
sumption of the State debts, which deserves particular notice. It

16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 33.

may be supposed, that it would increase the difficulty of an
equitable settlement between them and the United States.

The principles of that settlement, whenever they shall be
discussed, will require all the moderation and wisdom of the Go-
vernment. In the opinion of the Secretary, that discussion, till
further lights are obtained, would be premature. All, therefore,
which he would now think advisable on the point in question,
would be, that the amount of the debts assumed and provided
for, should be charged to the respective States, to abide an
eventual arrangement. This, the United States, as assignees to
the creditors, would have an indisputable right to do. "But, as
it might be a satisfaction to the House to have before them some
plan for the liquidation of accounts between the Union and its
members, which, including the .assumption of the State debts,
would consist with equity, the Secretary will submit, in this
place, such thoughts on the subject as have occurred to his own
mind, or been suggested to him, most compatible, in his judgment,
with the end proposed.

Let each State be charged with all the money advanced to it
out of the treasury of the United States, liquidated according to
the specie value at the time of each advance, with interest at six
per cent.

Let it also be charged with the amount, in specie value, of all
its securities which shall be assumed, with the interest upon
them, to the time when interest shall become payable by the
United States.

Let it be credited for all moneys paid, and articles furnished
to the United States, and for all other expenditures during the
war, either towards general or particular defence, whether au-
thorized or unauthorized by the United States ; the whole liqui-
dated to specie value, and bearing an interest of six per cent,
from the several times at which the several payments, advances,
and expenditures, accrued.

And let all sums of continental money, now in the treasuries
of the respective States, which shall be paid into the treasury of
the United States, be credited at specie value.

LTpon a statement of the accounts according to these princi-

JEt. 33.] FINANCE. 11

pies, there can be little doubt that balances would appear in
favor of all the States against the United States.

To equalize the contributions of the States, let each be then
charged with its proportion of the aggregate of those balances,
according to some equitable ratio, to be devised for that purpose.

If the contributions should be found disproportionate, the
result of this adjustment would be, that some States would be
creditors, some debtors, to the Union. Should this be the case —
as it will be attended with less inconvenience to the United
States to have to pay balances to, than to receive them from, the
particular States — it may, perhaps, be practicable to effect the
former by a second process, in the nature of a transfer of the
amount of the debts of debtor States, to the credit of creditor
States, observing the ratio by which the first apportionment shall
have been made. This, whilst it would destroy the balances due
from the former, would increase those due to the latter. These
to be provided for by the United States, at a reasonable interest,
but not to be transferable. The expediency of this second pro-
cess must depend on a knowledge of the result of the first. If
the inequalities should be too great, the arrangement may be im-
practicable, without unduly increasing the debt of the United
States. But it is not likely that this would be the case. It is
also to be remarked, that, though this second process might not,
upon the principle of apportionment, bring the thing to the point
aimed at, yet it may approach so nearly to it, as to avoid essen-
tially the embarrassment of having considerable balances to col-
lect from any of the States.

The whole of this arrangement to be under the superintend-
ence of commissioners, vested with equitable discretion and final
authority. The operation of the plan is exemplified in sche-
dule A.

The general principle of it seems to be equitable : for it ap-
pears difficult to conceive a good reason why the expenses for
the particular defence of a part, in a common war, should not be
a common charge, as well as those incurred professedly for the
general defence. The defence of each part is that of the whole ;
and unless all the expenditures are brought into a common mass,

18 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr.33.

the tendency must be to add to the calamities suffered, by being
the most exposed to the ravages of war, an increase of burthens.
This plan seems to be susceptible of no objection which does not
belong to every other, that proceeds on the idea of a final ad-
justment of accounts. The difficulty of settling a ratio is com-
mon to all. This must, probably, either be sought for in the
proportions of the requisitions during the war, or in the decision
of commissioners, appointed with plenary power. The rule pre-
scribed in the Constitution, with regard to representation and
direct taxes, would evidently not be applicable to the situation of
parties, during the period in question. The existing debt of the
United States is excluded from the computation, as it ought to
be, because it will be provided for out of a general fund. The
only discussion of a preliminary kind which remains, relates to
the distinctions of the debt into principal and interest. It is well
known that the arrears of the latter bear a large proportion to
the amount of the former. The immediate payment of these
arrears is evidently impracticable ; and a question arises, What
ought to be done with them ?

There is good reason to conclude, that the impressions of
many are more favorable to the claim of the principal, than to
that of the interest ; at least so far as to produce an opinion, that
an inferior provision might suffice for the latter.

But, to the Secretary, this opinion does not appear to be well
founded. His investigations of the subject have led him to a
conclusion, that the arrears of interest have pretensions at least
equal to the principal.

The liquidated debt, traced to its origin, falls under two
principal discriminations. One relating to loans, the other to
services performed and articles supplied. The part arising from
loans was at first made payable at fixed periods, which have long
since elapsed, with an early option to lenders, either to receive
back their money at the expiration of those periods, or to con-
tinue it at interest, till the whole amount of continental bills cir-
culating should not exceed the sum in circulation at the time of
each loan. This contingency, in the sense of the contract, never
happened ; and the presumption is, that the creditors preferred

^Et. 33.] FINANCE. 19

continuing their money indefinitely at interest to receiving it in
a depreciated and depreciating state.

The other parts of it were chiefly for objects which ought to
have been paid for at the time, that is, when the services were
performed, or the supplies furnished ; and were not accompanied
with any contract for interest.

But by different acts of Government and Administration, con-
curred in by the creditors, these parts of the debt have been con-
verted into a capital, bearing an interest of six per cent, per
annum, but without any definite period of redemption. A por-
tion of the Loan Office debt has been exchanged for new securi-
ties of that import ; and the whole of it seems to have acquired
that character after the expiration of the periods prefixed for re-
payment. If this view of the subject be a just one, the capital
of the debt of the United States may be considered in the light
of an annuity at the rate of six per cent, per annum, redeemable
at the pleasure of the Government by payment of the principal :
for it seems to be a clear position, that, when a Government con-
tracts a debt payable with interest, without any precise time
being stipulated or understood for payment of the capital, that
time is a matter of pure discretion with the Government, which
is at liberty to consult its own convenience respecting it, taking
care to pay the interest with punctuality.

"Wherefore, as long as the United States should pay the inter-
est of their debt, as it accrued, their creditors would have no
right to demand the principal. But with regard to the arrears
of interest, the case is different. These are now due, and those
to whom they are due, have a right to claim immediate payment.
To say that it would be impracticable to comply, would not vary
the nature of the right. Nor can this idea of impracticability be
honorably carried further than to justify the proposition of a new
contract, upon the basis of a commutation of that right for an
equivalent. This equivalent, too, ought to be a real and fair one.
And what other fair equivalent can be imagined for the deten-
tion of money, but a reasonable interest ? Or what can be the
standard of that interest, but the market rate, or the rate which
the Government pays in ordinary cases ?

20 HAMILTON'S WORKS

[Mt. 33.

From this view of the matter, which appears to be the accu-
rate and true one, it will follow, that the arrears of interest are
entitled to an equal provision with the principal of the debt.

The result of the foregoing discussions is this : That there
ought to be no discrimination between the original holders of
the debt, and present possessors by purchase ; that it is expe-
dient there should be an assumption of the State debts by the
Union ; and that the arrears of interest should be provided for
on an equal footing with the principal.

The next inquiry, in order, towards determining the nature
of a proper provision, respects the quantum of the debt, and
present rates of interest.

The debt of the Union is distinguishable into foreign and

domestic.

The foreign debt, as stated in schedule B,

amounts to, principal, - - - $10,070,307 00

Bearing an interest of four, and partly an inter-
est of five per cent.

Arrears of interest to the last of December,

1789, .... 1,640,071 62

Making, together, - - $11,710,878 62

The domestic debt may be subdivided into liquidated and un-
liquidated ; principal and interest.

The principal of the liquidated part, as stated in the schedule C,
amounts to $27,883,917 74

Bearing an interest of six per cent.
The arrears of interest, as stated in the sche-
dule D, to the end of 1790, amount to 13,030,168 20

Making, together, - - $40,414,085 94

This includes all that has been paid in indents (except what
has come into the treasury of the United States), which, in the
opinion of the Secretary, can be considered in no other light than
as interest due.

Mt. 33.] FINANCE. 21

The unliquidated part of the domestic debt, which consists
chiefly of the continental bills of credit, is not ascertained, but
may be estimated at 2,000,000 dollars.

These several sums constitute the whole of the debt of the
United States, amounting together to $54,124,464 56. That of
the individual States is not equally well ascertained. The sche-
dule E shows the extent to which it has been ascertained by re-
turns, pursuant to the orders of the House of the 21st September
last ; but this not comprehending all the States, the residue must
be estimated from less authentic information. The Secretary,
however, presumes that the total amount may be safely stated at
twenty-five millions of dollars, principal and interest. The pre-
sent rate of interest in the States' debt is, in general, the same with
that of the domestic debt of the Union.

On the supposition that the arrears of interest ought to be
provided for, on the same terms with the principal, the annual
amount of the interest, which, at the existing rates, would be
payable on the entire mass of the public debt, would be —
On the foreign debt, computing the interest on the principal, as
it stands, and allowing four per cent, on the
arrears of interest, - $542,599 66

On the domestic debt, including that of States, 4,044,845 15

Making, together, - - $4,587,444 81

The interesting problem now occurs : Is it in the power of
the United States, consistently with those prudential considera-
tions which ought not to be overlooked, to make a provision
equal to the purpose of funding the whole debt, at the rates of
interest which it now bears, in addition to the sum which will be
necessary for the current service of the Government ?

The Secretary will not say that such a provision would ex-
ceed the abilities of the country ; but he is clearly of opinion
that, to make it, would require the extension of taxation to a de-
gree, and to objects, which the true interest of the public credit-
ors forbids. It is therefore to be hoped, and even to be expected,
that they will cheerfully concur in such modifications of their

22 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

claims, on fair and equitable principles, as will facilitate to the
Government an arrangement substantial, durable, and satisfac-
tory to the community. The importance of the last character-
istic will strike every discerning mind. No plan, however
flattering in appearance, to which it did not belong, could be
truly entitled to confidence.

It will not be forgotten, that exigencies may, ere long, arise,
which would call for resources greatly beyond what is now
deemed sufficient for the current service ; and that, should the
faculties of the country be exhausted, or even strained, to pro-
vide for the public debt, there could be less reliance on the
sacredness of the provision. But while the Secretary yields to
the force of these considerations, he does not lose sight of those
fundamental principles of good faith, which dictate that every
practicable exertion ought to be made, scrupulously to fulfil the
engagements of the Government ; that no change in the rights
of its creditors ought to be attempted without their voluntary
consent ; and that this consent ought to be voluntary in fact, as
well as in name. Consequently, that every proposal of a change
ought to be in the shape of an appeal to their reason and to their
interest, not to their necessities. To this end it is requisite that
a fair equivalent should be offered for what may be asked to be
given up, and unquestionable security for the remainder. With-
out this, an alteration consistently with the credit and honor of
the nation would be impracticable.

It remains to see what can be proposed in conformity to these
views.

It has been remarked, that the capital of the debt of the
Union is to be viewed in the light of an annuity, at the rate of six
per cent, per annum, redeemable at the pleasure of the Govern-
ment, by payment of the principal. And it will not be required
that the arrears of interest should be considered in a more favor-
able light. The same character, in general, may be applied to
the debts of the individual States.

This view of the subject admits, that the United States would
have it in their power to avail themselves of any fall in the
market rate of interest for reducing that of the debt.

JEt. 33.] FINANCE. 23

This property of the debt is favorable to the public, unfavor-
able to the creditor, and may facilitate an arrangement for the
reduction of interest, upon the basis of a fair equivalent.

Probabilities are always a rational ground of contract. The
Secretary conceives, that there is good reason to believe, if
effectual measures are taken to establish public credit, that the
Government rate of interest in the United States will, in a very
short time, fall at least as low as five per cent. ; and that* in a
period not exceeding twenty years, it will sink still lower, proba-
bly to four. There are two principal causes which will be likely
to produce this effect ; one, the low rate of interest in Europe ;
the other, the increase of the moneyed capital of the nation, by
the funding of the public debt.

From three to four per cent, is deemed good interest in seve-
ral parts of Europe. Even less is deemed so, in some places,
and it is on the decline ; the increasing plenty of money continu-
ally tending to lower it. It is presumable, that no country will
be able to borrow of foreigners upon better terms than the United
States, because none can, perhaps, afford so good security. Our
situation exposes us, less than that of any other nation, to those
casualties which are the chief causes of expense ; our incum-
brances, in proportion to our real means, are less, though these
cannot immediately be brought so readily into action ; and our
progress in resources, from the early state of the country, and
the immense tracts of unsettled territory, must necessarily ex-
ceed that of any other. The advantages of this situation have
already engaged the attention of the European money lenders,
particularly among the Dutch. And as they become better un-
derstood, they will have the greater influence. Hence, as large
a proportion of the cash of Europe as may be wanted, will be,
in a certain sense, in our market, for the use of Government.
And this will naturally have the effect of a reduction of the rate
of interest, not indeed to the level of the places which send their
money to market, but to something much nearer to it than our
present rate.

The influence which the funding of the debt is calculated to
have in lowering interest, has been already remarked and ex-

24 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

plained. It is hardly possible that it should not be materially
affected by such an increase of the moneyed capital of the nation
as would result from the proper funding of seventy millions of
dollars. But the probability of a decrease in the rate of interest
acquires confirmation from facts which existed prior to the Kevo-
lutiou. It is well known that, in some of the States, money
might, with facility, be borrowed, on good security, at five per
cent* and, not unfrequently, even at less.

The most enlightened of the public creditors will be most sen-
sible of the justness of this view of the subject, and of the pro-
priety of the use which will be made of it. The Secretary, in
pursuance of it, will assume, as a probability sufficiently great to
be a ground of calculation, both on the part of the Government
and of its creditors, that the interest of money in the United
States will, in five years, fall to five per cent., and, in twenty, to
four. The probability, in the mind of the Secretary, is rather
that the fall may be more rapid and more considerable ; but he
prefers a mean, as most likely to engage the assent of the cre-
ditors, and more equitable in itself; because it is predicated on
probabilities, which may err on one side, as well as on the other.

Premising these things, the Secretary submits to the House
the expediency of proposing a loan, to the full amount of the
debt, as well of the particular States as of the Union, upon the
following terms :

First. That, for every hundred dollars subscribed, payable in
the debt (as well interest as principal), the subscriber be entitled,
at his option, either to have two-thirds funded at an annuity or
yearly interest of six per cent, redeemable at the pleasure of the
Government, by payment of the principal, and to receive the
other third in lands in the western territory, at the rate of twenty
cents per acre ; or to have the whole sum funded at an annuity
or yearly interest of four per cent., irredeemable by any payment
exceeding five dollars per annum, on account both of principal
and interest, and to receive, as a compensation for the reduction
of interest, fifteen dollars and eighty cents, payable in lands, as
in the preceding case ; or, to have sixty-six dollars and two-
thirds of a dollar funded immediately, at an annuity or yearly

J3t. 33.] FINANCE. 25

interest of six per cent., irredeemable by any payment exceeding
four dollars and two-thirds of a dollar per annum, on account
both of principal and interest, and to have, at the end of ten
years, twenty-six dollars and eighty-eight cents funded at the
like interest and rate of redemption ; or to have an annuity, for
the remainder of life, upon the contingency of fixing to a given
age, not less distant than ten years, computing interest at four
per cent. ; or to have an annuity, for the remainder of life, upon
the contingency of the survivorship of the youngest of two per-
sons, computing interest in this case also at four per cent.

In addition to the foregoing loan, payable wholly in the debt,
the Secretary would propose that one should be opened for ten
millions of dollars, on the following plan :

That, for every hundred dollars subscribed, payable one-half
in specie, and the other half in debt (as well principal as interest),
the subscriber be entitled to an annuity or yearly interest of five
per cent., irredeemable by any payment exceeding six dollars per
annum, on account both of principal and interest.

The principles and operation of these different plans may now
require explanation.

The first is simply a proposition for paying one-third of the
debt in land, and funding the other two-thirds at the existing
rate of interest, and upon the same terms of redemption to which
it is at present subject.

Here is no conjecture, no calculation of probabilities. The
creditor is offered the advantage of making his interest principal,
and he is asked to facilitate to the Government an effectual pro-
vision for his demands, by accepting a third part of them in land,
at a fair valuation.

The general price at which the Western lands have been
heretofore sold, has been a dollar per acre in public securities ;
but, at the time the principal purchases were made, these securi-
ties were worth, in the market, less than three shillings in the
pound. The nominal price, therefore, would not be the proper
standard, under present circumstances, nor would the precise
specie value then given be a just rule ; because, as the payments
were to be made by instalments, and the securities were, at the

c 3

26 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M-r. 33.

times of the purchases, extremely low, the probability of a
moderate rise must be presumed to have been taken into the
account.

Twenty cents, therefore, seems to bear an equitable propor-
tion to the two considerations of value at the time and likelihood
of increase.

It will be understood that, upon this plan, the public retains
the advantage of availing itself of any fall in the market rate of
interest, for reducing that upon the debt ; which is perfectly just,
as no present sacrifice, either in the quantum of the principal, or
in the rate of interest, is required from the creditor.

The inducement to the measure is, the payment of one-third
of the debt in land. The second plan is grounded upon the sup-
position that interest, in five years, will fall to five per cent. ; in
fifteen more, to four. As the capital remains entire, but bearing
an interest of four per cent, only, compensation is to be made to
the creditor for the interest of two per cent, per annum, for five
years, and of one per cent, per annum, for fifteen years, to com-
mence at the distance of five years. The present value of these
two sums or annuities, computed according to the terms of the
supposition, is, by strict calculation, fifteen dollars and the seven
hundred and ninety -two thousandth part of a dollar — a fraction
less than the sum proposed.

The inducement of the measure here, is the reduction of in-
terest to a rate more within the compass of a convenient provi-
sion, and the payment of the compensation in lands.

The inducements to the individual, are, the accommodation
afforded to the public ; the high probability of a complete equi-
valent ; the chance even of gain, should the rate of interest fall,
either more speedily, or in a greater degree than the calculation
supposes. Should it fall to five per cent, sooner than five years ;
should it fall lower than five, before the additional fifteen were
expired ; or, should it fall below four, previous to the payment
of the debt ; there would be, in each case, an absolute profit to
the creditor. As his capital will remain entire, the value of it
will increase with every decrease of the rate of interest.

The third plan proceeds upon the like supposition of a sue-

jEt. 33.]

FINANCE. 2Y

cessive fall in the rate of interest, and upon that supposition
offers an equivalent to the creditor : One hundred dollars, bear-
ing an interest of six per cent, for five years ; or five per cent,
for fifteen years; and thenceforth, of four per cent, (these being the
successive rates of interest in the market), is equal to a capital of
$122.510725 parts, bearing an interest of four per cent., which,
converted into a capital, bearing a fixed rate of interest of six
per cent., is equal to $81.6738166 parts.

The difference between sixty-six dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar (the sum to be funded immediately), and this last sum, is
$15.0172 parts, which, at six per cent, per annum, amounts, at
the end often years, to $26.8755 parts — the sum to be funded at
the expiration of that period. It ought, however, to be acknow-
ledged that this calculation does not make allowance for the
principle of redemption, which the plan itself includes; upon
which principle, the equivalent, in a capital of six per cent,
would be, by strict calculation, $87.50766 parts.

But there are two considerations which induce the Secretary
to think that the one proposed would operate more equitably
than this : One is, that it may not be very early in the power of
the United States to avail themselves of the right of redemption
reserved in the plan ; the other is, that with regard to the part
to be funded at the end of ten years, the principle of redemption
is suspended during that time, and the full interest of six per
cent, goes on improving at the same rate ; which, for the last five
years, will exceed the market rate of interest, according to the
supposition.

The equivalent is regulated in this plan, by the circumstance
of fixing the rate of interest higher than it is supposed it will
continue to be in the market, permitting only a gradual discharge
of the debt, in an established proportion, and consequently pre-
venting advantage being taken of any decrease of interest below
the stipulated rate.

Thus the true value of eighty-one dollars and sixty-seven
cents, the capital proposed, considered as a perpetuity, and bear-
ing six per cent, interest, when the market rate of interest was
five per cent., would be a small fraction more than ninety-eight

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

dollars ; when it was four per cent, would be one hundred and
twenty-two dollars and fifty-one cents. But the proposed capital
being subject to gradual redemption, it is evident that its value,
in each case, would be somewhat less. Yet, from this may be
perceived the manner in which a less capital, at a fixed rate of
interest, becomes an equivalent for a greater capital, at a rate
liable to variation and diminution.

It is presumable that those creditors who do not entertain a
favorable opinion of property in Western lands, will give a prefer-
ence to this last mode of modelling the debt. The Secretary is
sincere in affirming, that, in his opinion, it will be likely to prove,
to the full, as beneficial to the creditor, as a provision for his debt
upon its present terms.

It is not intended, in either case, to oblige the Government to
redeem in the proportion specified, but to secure to it the right of
doing so, to avoid the inconvenience of a perpetuity.

The fourth and fifth plans abandon the supposition which is
the basis of the two preceding ones, and offer only four per cent,
throughout.

The reason of this is, that the payment, being deferred, there
will be an accumulation of compound interest, in the intermedi-
ate period, against the public, which, without a very prov-
ident administration, would turn to its detriment, and the sus-
pension of the burthen would be too apt to beget a relaxation of
efforts in the mean time. The measure, therefore, its object
being temporary accommodation, could only be advisable uj)on
a moderate rate of interest.

With regard to individuals, the inducement will be sufficient
at four per cent. There is no disposition of money, in private
loans, making allowance for the usual delays and casualties,
which would be equally beneficial as a future provision.

A hundred dollars advanced upon the life of a person of
eleven years old, would produce an annuity* of —

Dolls. Parts.

If commencing at twenty-one, of - - - 10.346
If commencing at thirty-one, of - - - 18.803

* See Schedule F.

jEt. 33.] FINANCE. 29

Dolls. Parts.
If commencing at forty-one, of 37.286

If commencing at fifty-one, of 78.580

The same sum advanced upon the chance of the survivorship
of the youngest of two lives, one of the persons being twenty-five,
the other thirty years old, would produce, if the youngest of the
two should survive, au annuity* for the remainder of life, of
twenty -three dollars, five hundred and fifty -six parts.

From these instances may readily be discerned the advantages
which these deferred annuities afford, for securing a comfortable
provision for the evening of life, or for wives who survive their
husbands.

The sixth plan also relinquishes the supposition, which is the
foundation of the second and third, and offers a higher rate of
interest, upon similar terms of redemption, for the consideration
of the payment of one half of the loan in specie. This is a plan
highly advantageous to the creditors who may be able to make
that payment, while the specie itself could be applied in pur-
chases of the debt, upon terms which would fully indemnify the
public for the increased interest.

It is not improbable that foreign holders of the domestic debt
may embrace this as a desirable arrangement.

As an auxiliary expedient, and by way of experiment, the
Secretary would propose a loan upon the principles of a ton-
tine f —

To consist of six classes, composed respectively of persons
of the following ages :

First class, of those of 20 years and under.

Second class, of those above 20, and not exceeding 30.

Third class, of those above 30, and not exceeding 40.

Fourth class, of those above 40, and not exceeding 50.

Fifth class, of those above 50, and not exceeding 60.

Sixth class, of those above 60.

Each share to be two hundred dollars ; the number of shares,
in each class, to be indefinite. Persons to be at liberty to sub-

* See Table, Schedule G. t See Table, Schedule H.

30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

scribe on their own lives, or on those of others nominated by
them.

The annuity upon a share in the first class, to be $8 40
Upon a share in the second, - - - 8 65

Upon a share in the third, - - - 9 00

Upon a share in the fourth - - - - 9 65
Upon a share in the fifth, - - - - 10 70
Upon a share in the sixth, - - - - 12 80
The annuities of those who die, to be equally divided among
the survivors, until four-fifths shall be dead, when the principle
of survivorship shall cease, and each annuitant thenceforth enjoy
his dividend as a several annuity during the life upon which it
shall depend.

These annuities are calculated on the best life in each class,
and at a rate of interest of four per cent., with some deductions
in favor of the public. To the advantages which these circum-
stances present, the cessation of the right of survivorship, on the
death of four-fifths of the annuitants, will be no inconsiderable
addition.

The inducements to individuals, are, a competent interest for
their money from the outset, secured for life, and prospect of
continual increase, and even of a large profit to those whose for-
tune it is to survive their associates.

It will have appeared, that, in all the proposed loans, the
Secretary has contemplated the putting the interest upon the
same footing with the principal. That on the debt of the United
States, he would have computed to the last of the present year ;
that on the debt of the particular States, to the last of the year
1791 : the reason for which distinction will be seen hereafter.

In order to keep up a due circulation of money, it will be
expedient that the interest of the debt should be paid quarter
yearly. This regulation will, at the same time, conduce to the
advantage of the public creditors, giving them, in fact, by the
anticipation of payment, a higher rate of interest ; which may,
with propriety, be taken into the estimate of the compensation
to be made to them. Six per cent, per annum, paid in this mode,
will truly be worth six dollars, and the one hundred and thirty-

JEt. 33.] FINANCE. 31

five thousandth part of a dollar, computing the market interest
at the same rate.

The Secretary thinks it advisable to hold out various propo-
sitions, all of them compatible with the public interest, because it
is, in his opinion, of the greatest consequence that the debt
should, with the consent of the creditors, be remoulded into such
a shape as will bring the expenditure of the nation to a level with
its income. Till this shall be accomplished, the finances of the
United States will never wear a proper countenance. Arrears
of interest, continually accruing, will be as continual a monument,
either of inability or of ill faith, and will not cease to have an evil
influence on public credit. In nothing are appearances of greater
moment than in whatever regards credit. Opinion is the soul of
it ; and this is effected by appearances as well as realities. By
offering an option to the creditors between a number of plans,
the change meditated will be more likely to be accomplished.
Different tempers will be governed by different views of the
subject.

But while the Secretary would endeavor to effect a change in
the form of the debt by new loans, in order to render it more
susceptible of an adequate provision, he would not think it proper
to aim at procuring the concurrence of the creditors by operating
upon their necessities.

Hence, whatever surplus of revenue might remain, after satis-
fying the interest of the new loans and the demand for the cur-
rent service, ought to be divided among those creditors, if any,
who may not think fit to subscribe to them. But for this pur-
pose, under the circumstance of depending propositions, a
temporary appropriation will be most advisable, and the sum
must be limited to four per cent, as the revenues will only be
calculated to produce in that proportion to the entire debt.

The Secretary confides, for the success of the propositions to
be made, on the goodness of the reasons upon which they rest ;
on the fairness of the equivalent to be offered in each case ; on
the discernment of the creditors, of their true interest ; and on
their disposition to facilitate the arrangements of the Government,
and to render them satisfactory to the community.

32 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

The remaining part of the task to be performed is to take a
view of the means of providing for the debt, according to the
modification of it which it is proposed.

On this point the Secretary premises, that, in his opinion, the
funds to be established ought, for the present, to be confined to
the existing debt of the United States ; as well because the
progressive augmentation of the revenue will be most convenient,
as because the consent of the State creditors is necessary to the
assumption contemplated ; and though the obtaining of that con-
sent may be inferred with great assurance, from their obvious
interest to give it, yet, till it shall be obtained, an actual provi-
sion for the debt would be premature. Taxes could not, with
propriety, be laid for an object which depended on such a con-
tingency.

All that ought now to be done respecting it, is to put the
matter in an effectual train for a future provision. For which
purpose the Secretary will, in the course of this report, submit
such propositions as appear to him advisable.

The Secretary now proceeds to a consideration of the neces-
sary funds. •

It has been stated that the debt of the United States consists
of the foreign debt, amounting, with ar-
rears of interest, to --- - $11,710,37862

And the domestic debt, amounting, with
like arrears, computed to the end of the
year 1790, to .... 42,414,085 94

Making, together, $54,124,464 56

The interest on the domestic debt is computed to the end of
this year, because the details of carrying any plan into execu-
tion, will exhaust the year.

The annual interest of the foreign debt has

been stated at - - - $542,599 66

And the interest on the domestic debt, at

four per cent., would amount to - - 1,696,563 43

Making, together, $2,239,163 09

2Et. 33.] FINANCE. 33

Thus, to pay the interest of the foreign debt, and to pay four
per cent, on the whole of the domestic debt, principal and inter-
est, forming a new capital, will require a yearly income of
$2,239,163 09 — the sum which, in the opinion of the Secretary,
ought now to be provided, in addition to what the current ser-
vice will require.

For, though the rate of interest proposed by the third plan,
exceeds four per cent, on the whole debt, and the annuities on
the tontine will also exceed four per cent, on the sums which
may be subscribed ; yet, as the actual provision for a part is in
the former case suspended, as measures for reducing the debt, by
purchases, may be advantageously pursued, and as the payment
of the deferred annuities will of course be postponed, four per
cent, on the whole will be a sufficient provision.

"With regard to the instalments of the foreign debt, these, in
the opinion of the Secretary, ought to be paid by new loans
abroad. Could funds be conveniently spared from other exi-
gencies, for paying them, the United States could illy bear the
drain of cash, at the present juncture, which the measure would
be likely to occasion.

But to the sum which has been stated for payment of the
interest, must be added a provision for the current service.
This the Secretary estimates at six hundred thousand dollars,*
making, with the amount of the interest, two millions eight
hundred and thirty -nine thousand one hundred and sixty-three
dollars and nine cents.

This sum may, in the opinion of the Secretary, be obtained
from the present duties on imports and tonnage, with the addi-
tions which, without any possible disadvantage, either to trade or
agriculture, may be made on wines, spirits (including those dis-
tilled within the United States), teas and coffee.

The Secretary conceives that it will be sound policy to carry
the duties, upon articles of this kind, as high as will be consistent
with the practicability of a safe collection. This will lessen the
necessity, both of having recourse to direct taxation, and of accu-

* See Schedule I.

34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

mulating duties, where they would be more inconvenient to trade,
and upon objects which are more to be regarded as necessaries of

life.

That the articles which have been enumerated, will, better
than most others, bear high duties, can hardly be a question.
They are all of them in reality luxuries ; the greatest part of
them foreign luxuries ; some of them, in the excess in which
they are used, pernicious luxuries. And there is, perhaps,
none of them, which is not consumed in so great abundance
as may justly denominate it a source of national extravagance
and impoverishment. The consumption of ardent spirits, par-
ticularly, no doubt very much on account of their cheapness,
is carried to an extreme which is truly to be regretted, as well
in regard to the health and morals, as to the economy of the
community.

Should the increase of duties tend to a decrease of the con-
sumption of those articles, the effect would be, in every respect,
desirable. The saving which it would occasion, would leave
individuals more at their ease, and promote a favorable balance of
trade. As far as this decrease might be applicable to distilled
spirits, it would encourage the substitution of cider and malt
liquors, benefit agriculture, and open a new and productive
source of revenue.

It is not, however, probable, that this decrease would be in a
degree which would frustrate the expected benefit to the re-
venue, from raising the duties. Experience has shown, that
luxuries of every kind lay the strongest hold on the attachments
of mankind, which, especially when confirmed by habit, are not
easily alienated from them.

The same fact affords a security to the merchant, that he is
not likely to be prejudiced by considerable duties on such
articles. They will usually command a proportional price.
The chief things, in this view, to be attended to, are, that the
terms of payment be so regulated as not to require inconvenient
advances, and that the mode of collection be secure.

To other reasons, which plead for carrying the duties, upon
the articles which have been mentioned, to as great an extent as

jEt. 33.] FINANCE. 35

they will bear, may be aded these : that they are of a nature,
from their extensive consumption, to be very productive, and
are amongst the most difficult objects of illicit introduction.

Invited by so many motives to make the best use of the re-
source which these articles afford, the essential inquiry is, in
what mode can the duties upon them be most effectually col-
lected ?

With regard to such of them as will be brought from abroad,
a duty on importation recommends itself by two leading consi-
derations : one is, that, meeting the object at its first entrance
into the country, the collection is drawn to a point, and, so far,
simplified ; the other is, that it avoids the possibility of interfer-
ence between the regulations of the United States and those of
the particular States.

But a duty, the precautions for the collection of which, should
terminate with the landing of the goods, as is essentially the case
in the existing system, could not, with safety, be carried to the
extent which is contemplated.

In that system, the evasion of the duty depends, as it were,
on a single risk. To land the goods in defiance of the vigilance
of the officers of the customs, is almost the sole difficulty. No
future pursuit is materially to be apprehended. And where the
inducement is equivalent to the risk, there will be found too
many who are willing to run it. Consequently, there will be
extensive frauds of the revenue, against which, the utmost rigor
of penal laws has proved, as often as it has been tried, an inef-
fectual guard.

The only expedient which has been discovered, for conciliat-
ing high duties with a safe collection, is, the establishment of a
second, or interior scrutiny.

By pursuing the article, from its importation, into the hands
of the dealers in it, the risk of detection is so greatly enhanced,
that few, in comparison, will venture to incur it. Indeed, every
dealer, who is not himself the fraudulent importer, then becomes,
in some sort, a sentinel upon him.

The introduction of a system founded on this principle, in
some shape or other, is, in the opinion of the Secretary, essential

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [-tor. 33.

to the efficacy of every attempt to render the revenues of the
United States equal to their exigencies, their safety, their pros-
perity, their honor.

Nor is it less essential to the interest of the honest and fair
trader. It might even be added, that every individual citizen,
besides his share in the general weal, has a particular interest in
it. The practice of smuggling never fails to have one of two
effects, and sometime unites them both. Either the smuggler
undersells the fair trader, as, by saving the duty, he can afford to
do, and makes it a charge upon him ; or he sells at the increased
price occasioned by the duty, and defrauds every man who buys
of him, of his share of what the public ought to receive ; for, it
is evident, that the loss falls ultimately upon the citizens, who
must be charged with other taxes, to make good the deficiency,
and supply the wants of the State.

The Secretary will not presume that the plan which he shall
submit to the consideration of the House is the best that could
be devised. But it is the one which has appeared to him freest
from objections, of any that has occurred, of equal efficacy. He
acknowledges, too, that it is susceptible of improvement, by
other precautions in favor of the revenue, which he did not think
it expedient to add. The chief outlines of the plan are not
original ; but it is no ill recommendation of it, that it has been
tried with success.

The Secretary accordingly proposes —

That the duties heretofore laid upon wines, distilled spirits,
teas, and coffee, should, after the last clay of May next, cease ;
and that, instead of them, the following duties be laid :

Upon every gallon of Madeira wine, the quality of London
particular, thirty-five cents.

Upon every gallon of other Madeira wine, thirty cents.

Upon every gallon of Sherry, twenty-five cents.

Upon every gallon of other wine, twenty cents.

Upon every gallon of distilled spirits, more than ten per
cent, below proof, according to Dicas's hydrometer, twenty
cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, under five, and not more

Mt. 33.] FINANCE. 37

than ten per cent, below proof, according to the same hydro-
meter, twenty-one cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, of proof, and not more
than five per cent, below proof, according to the same hydro-
meter, twenty-two cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, above proof, but not ex-
ceeding twenty per cent, according to the same hydrometer,
twenty-five cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than twenty, and
not more than forty per cent, above proof, according to the same
hydrometer, thirty cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than forty per cent,
above proof, according to the same hydrometer, forty cents.

Upon every pound of Hyson tea, forty cents.

Upon every pound of other green tea, twenty-four cents.

Upon every pound of Souchong and other black teas, except
Bohea, twenty cents.

Upon every pound of Bohea tea, twelve cents.

Upon every pound of coffee, five cents.

That, upon spirits distilled within the United States, from
molasses, sugar, or other foreign materials, there be paid —

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than ten per cent,
below proof, according to Dicas's hydrometer, eleven cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, under five, and not more
than ten per cent, below proof, according to the same hydro-
meter, twelve cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, of proof, and not more
than five per cent, below proof, according to the same hydro-
meter, thirteen cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, above proof, but not
exceeding twenty per cent, according to the same hydrometer,
fifteen cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than twenty, and
not more than forty per cent, above proof, according to the same
hydrometer, twenty cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than forty per
cent, above proof, according to the same hydrometer, thirty
cents.

38 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

That, upon spirits distilled within the United States, in any
city, town, or village, from materials of the growth or jDroduction
of the United States, there be paid —

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than ten per cent,
below proof, according to Dicas's hydrometer, nine cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, under five, and not more
than ten per cent, below proof, according to the same hydro-
meter, ten cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, of proof, and not more
than five per cent, below proof, according to the same hydrometer,
eleven cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, above proof, but not ex-
ceeding twenty per cent, according to the same hydrometer, thir-
teen cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirts, more than twenty, and not
more than forty per cent, above proof, according to the same
hydrometer, seventeen cents.

Upon every gallon of those spirits, more than forty per cent,
above proof, according to the same hydrometer, twenty-five
cents.

That, upon all stills employed in distilling spirits from ma-
terials of the growth or production of the United States, in any
other place than a city, town, or village, there be paid the yearly
sum of sixty cents, for every gallon, English wine measure, of
the capacity of each still, including its head.

The Secretary does not distribute the duties on teas into dif-
ferent classes, as has been done in the impost act of the last ses-
sion ; beeause this distribution depends on considerations of com-
mercial policy, not of revenue. It is sufficient, therefore, for
him, to remark, that the rates above specified are proposed with
reference to the lowest class.

The Secretary, conceiving that he could not convey an
accurate idea of the plan contemplated by him, for the collection
of these duties, in any mode so effectual as by the draught of a
bill for the purpose, begs leave, respectfully, to refer the House
to that which will be found annexed to this report, relatively to
the article of distilled spirits ; and, which, for the better expla-

^t. 33.] FINANCE. 39

nation of some of its parts, is accompanied with marginal re-
marks.

It would be the intention of the Secretary that the duty on
wines should be collected upon precisely the same plan with that
on imported spirits.

But, with regard to teas and coffee, the Secretary is inclined
to think, that it will be expedient, till experience shall evince
the propriety of going further, to exclude the ordinary right of
the officers to visit and inspect the places in which those articles
may be kept. The other precautions, without this, will afford,
though not complete, considerable security.

It will not escape the observation of the House, that the Sec-
retary, in the plan submitted, has taken the most scrupulous
care, that those citizens upon whom it is immediately to operate,
be secured from every species of injury by the misconduct of
the officers to be employed. There are not only strong guards
against their being guilty of abuses of authority ; they are not
only punishable, criminally, for any they may commit, and made
answerable in damages, to individuals, for whatever prejudice
these may sustain by their acts or neglects ; but, even where
seizures are made with probable cause, if there be an acquittal of
the articles seized, a compensation to the proprietors, for the in-
jury their property may suffer, and even for its detention, is to
be made out of the public treasury.

So solicitous, indeed, has the Secretary been, to obviate every
appearance of hardship, that he has even included a compensa-
tion to the dealers, for their agency in aid of the revenue.

With all these precautions to manifest a spirit of moderation
and justice, on the part of the Government; and, when it is
considered that the object of the proposed system is the firm
establishment of public credit ; that, on this depends the charac-
ter, security, and prosperity of the nation ; that advantages, in
every light important, may be expected to result from it ; that
the immediate operation of it will be upon an enlightened class
of citizens, zealously devoted to good government, and to a lib-
eral and enlarged policy ; and that it is peculiarly the interest of
the virtuous part of them to co-operate in whatever will restrain

40 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. S3.

the spirit of illicit traffic ; there "will be perceived to exist the
justest ground of confidence, that the* plan, if eligible in itself,
will experience the cheerful and prompt acquiescence of the
community.

The Secretary computes the net product of the duties pro-
posed in this report, at about one million seven hundred and
three thousand four hundred dollars, according to the estimate in
schedule K, which, if l^ear the truth, will, together with the pro-
bable product of the duties on imposts and tonnage, complete the
sum required.

But, it will readily occur, that, in so unexplored a field, there
must be a considerable degree of uncertainty in the data ; and
that, on this account, it will be prudent to have an auxiliary re-
source for the first year in wh'ich the interest will become pay-
aole, that there may be no possibility of disappointment to the
public creditors, ere there may be an opportunity of providing
for any deficiency which the experiment may discover. This
will, accordingly, be attended to.

The proper appropriation of the funds provided, and to be
provided, seems next to offer itself to consideration.

On this head, the Secretary would jDropose, that the duties
on distilled spirits should be applied, in the first instance, to the
payment of the interest on the foreign debt.

That, reserving out of the residue of those duties, an annual
sum of six hundred thousand dollars, for the current service of
the United States, the surplus, together with the product of the
other duties, be applied to the payment of the interest on the
new loan, by an appropriation coextensive with the duration of
the debt.

And that, if any part of the debt should remain unsubscribed,
the excess of the revenue be divided among the creditors of the
unsubscribed part, by a temporary disposition ; with a limitation,
however, to four per cent.

It will hardly have been unnoticed that the Secretary has
been, thus far, silent on the subject of the Post Office. The rea-
son is, that he has had in view the application of the revenue,
arising from that source, to the purpose of a sinking fund. The

jEt. 33.] % FINANCE. 41

Postmaster General gives it as his opinion, that the immediate
product of it, upon a proper arrangement, would probably be not
less than one hundred thousand dollars. And, from its nature,
with good management, it must be a growing, and will be likely
to become a considerable fund. The Postmaster General is now
engaged in preparing a plan which will be the foundation of a
proposition for a new arrangement of the establishment. This,
and some other points relative to the subject referred to the Sec-
retary, he begs leave to reserve for a future report.

Persuaded, as the Secretary is, that the proper funding of the
present debt will render it a national blessing, yet he is so far
from acceding to the position, in the latitude in which it is some-
times laid down, that " public debts are public benefits " — a posi-
tion inviting to prodigality, and liable to dangerous abuse — that
he ardently wishes to see it incorporated, as a fundamental
maxim, in the system of public credit of the United States, that
the creation of debt should always be accompanied with the
means of extinguishment. This he regards as the true secret
for rendering public credit immortal. And he presumes that it
is difficult to conceive a situation in which there may not be an
adherence to the maxim. At least, he feels an unfeigned solici-
tude that this may be attempted by the United States, and that
they may commence their measures for the establishment of
credit with the observance of it.

Under this impression, the Secretary proposes that the net
product of the Post Office, to a sum not exceeding one million
of dollars, be vested in commissioners, to consist of the Vice-
President of the United States, or President of the Senate, the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, the Chief Justice, Sec-
retary of the Treasury, and Attorney General of the United
States, for the time being, in trust ; to be applied by them, or
any three of them, to the discharge of the existing public debt,
either by purchases of stock in the market, or by payments on
account of the principal, as shall appear to them most advisable,
in conformity to public engagements ; to continue so vested,
until the whole of the debt shall be discharged.

As an additional expedient for effecting a reduction of the

c 4

42 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

debt, and for other purposes, which will be mentioned, the Sec-
retary would further propose, that the same commissioners be
authorized, with the approbation of the President of the United
States, to borrow, on their credit, a sum not exceeding twelve
millions of dollars, to be applied —

First. To the payments of the interest and instalments of
the foreign debt, to the end of the present year, which will re-
quire 3,491,923 dollars and 46 cents.

Secondly. To the payment of any deficiency which may
happen in the product of the funds provided for paying the
interest of the domestic debt.

Thirdly. To the effecting a change in the form of such part
of the foreign debt as bears an interest of five per cent. It is
conceived that, for this purpose, a new loan, at a lower interest,
may be combined with other expedients. The remainder of this
part of the debt, after paying the instalments which will accrue
in the course of 1790, will be 3,888,888 dollars and 81 cents.

Fourthly. To the purchase of the public debt, at the price it
shall bear in the market, while it continues below its true value.
This measure, which would be, in the opinion of the Secre-
tary, highly dishonorable to the Government, if it were to pre-
cede a provision for funding the debt, would become altogether
unexceptionable after that had been made. Its effect would be
in favor of the public creditors, as it would tend to raise the
value of stock; and all the difference between its true value and
the actual price would be so much clear gain to the public.
The payment of foreign interest on the capital to be borrowed
for this purpose, should that be a necessary consequence, would
not, in the judgment of the Secretary, be a good objection to the
measure. The saving, by the operation, would be, itself, a suffi-
cient indemnity ; and the employment of' that capital, in a coun-
try situated like this, would much more than compensate for it.
Besides, if the Government does not undertake this operation,
the same inconvenience which the objection in question sup-
poses, would happen in another way, with a circumstance of
aggravation. As long, at least, as the debt shall continue below
its proper value, it will be an object of speculation to foreigners,

^Et. 33.] FINANCE. 43

who will not only receive the interest upon what they purchase,
and remit it abroad, as in the case of the loan, but will reap the
additional profit of the difference in value. By the Govern-
ment's entering into competition with them, it will not only
reap a part of the profit itself, but will contract the extent, and
lessen the extra profit of foreign purchasers. That competition
will accelerate the rise of stock ; and whatever greater rate this
obliges foreigners to pay for what they purchase, is so much
clear saving to the nation. In the opinion of the Secretary, and
contrary to an idea which is not without patrons, it ought to be
the policy of the Government to raise the value of stock to its
true standard, as fast as possible. When it arrives to that point,
foreign speculations (which, till then, must be deemed perni-
cious, further than as they serve to bring it to that point) will
become beneficial. Their money, laid out in this country upon
our agriculture, commerce, and manufactures, will produce
much, more to us than the income they will receive from it.

The Secretary contemplates the application of this money
through the medium of a national bank, for which, with the per-
mission of the House, he will submit a plan in the course of the
session.

The Secretary now proceeds, in the last place, to offer to the
consideration of the House his ideas of the steps which ought, at
the present session, to be taken towards the assumption of the
State debts.

These are, briefly, that concurrent resolutions of the two
Houses, with the approbation of the President, be entered into,
declaring, in substance —

That the United States do assume, and will, at the first ses-
sion in the year 1791, provide, on the same terms with the pres-
ent debt of the United States, for all such parts of the debts of
the respective States, or any of them, as shall, prior to the first
day of January, in the said year, 1791, be subscribed towards a
loan to the United States, upon the principles of either of the
plans, which shall have been adopted by them, for obtaining a
re-loan of their present debt.

Provided, that the provision to be made, as aforesaid, shall

44 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

be suspended, with, respect to the debt of any State, which may
have exchanged the securities of the United States for others
issued by itself, until the whole of the said securities shall either
be re-exchanged or surrendered to the United States.

And provided, also, that the interest upon the debt assumed,
be computed to the end of the year 1791 ; and that the interest
to be paid by the United States, commence on the first day of
January, 1792.

That the amount of the debt of each State, so assumed and
provided for, be charged to such State in account with the United
States, upon the same principles upon which it shall be lent to
the United States.

That subscriptions be opened for receiving loans of the said
debts, at the same times and places, and under the like regula-
tions, as shall have been prescribed in relation to the debt of the
United States.

The Secretary has now completed the objects which he pro-
posed to himself to comprise in the present report. He has, for the
most part, omitted details, as well to avoid fatiguing the attention
of the House, as because more time would have been desirable,
even to digest the general principles of the plan. If these
should be found right, the particular modifications will readily
suggest themselves in the progress of the work.

The Secretary, in the views which have directed his pursuit
of the subject, has been influenced, in the first place, by the con-
sideration, that his duty, from the very terms of the resolution
of the House, obliged him to propose what appeared to him an
adequate provision for the support of the public credit, adapted
at the same time to the real circumstances of the United States ;
and, in the next, by the reflection, that measures which will not
bear the test of future unbiassed examination, can neither be
productive of individual reputation, nor (which is of much
greater consequence) public honor or advantage.

Deeply impressed, as the Secretary is, with a full and delib-
erate conviction that the establishment of the public credit, upon
the basis of a satisfactory provision for the public debt, is, under
the present circumstances of this country, the true desideratum

Mt. 33.]

FINANCE. 45

towards relief from individual and national embarrassments;
that, without it, these embarrassments will be likely to press
still more severely upon the community ; he cannot but indulge
an anxious wish, that an effectual plan for that purpose may, du-
ring the present session, be the result of the united wisdom of
the Legislature.

He is fully convinced that it is of the greatest importance
that no further delay should attend the making of the requisite
provision : not only because it will give a better impression of
the good faith of the country, and will bring earlier relief to the
creditors, both which circumstances are of great moment to pub-
lic credit, but because the advantages to the community, from
raising stock, as speedily as possible, to its natural value, will be
incomparably greater than any that can result from its continu-
ance below that standard. No profit which could be derived
from purchases in the market, on account of the Government, to
any practicable extent, would be an equivalent for the loss which
would be sustained by the purchases of foreigners at a low value.
Not to repeat, that governmental purchases, to be honorable,
ought to be preceded by a provision. Delay, by disseminating
doubt, would sink the price of stock ; and, as the temptation to
foreign speculations, from the lowness of the price, would be too
great to be neglected, millions would probably be lost to the
United States.

All of which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,.

Secretary of the Treasury.

To this Eeport were appended several schedules.

A. Being a supposititious statement of accounts between the United States and
individual States.

B. A general statement of the Foreign Loans, showing, in abstraot, the capital
sums borrowed, and the arrearages of interest, to the 31st of December, 1789.

C. Abstract of the Liquidated and Loan Office Debt of the United States, on
the 3d of March, 1789.

D. An estimate of all the interest which will accrue on the Domestic Debt of
the United States, from its formation to the 31st of December, 1790 ; of sucli par-
tial payments as have been made on account thereof, and of the balance which will
remain to be provided for, to pay up the interest, fully to that period.

46 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Ml. 33.

E. Abstract of the public debt of the States (therein) mentioned agreeably to
accounts transmitted in pursuance of the resolutions of the House of Representa-
tives of the 21st of September, 1789.

F. Table, showing the annuity which a person of a given age would be entitled
to, during life, from the time he should arrive at a given age, upon the present
payment of a hundred dollars, computing interest at four per cent.

G. Table, showing what annuity would be enjoyed by the survivor of only two
persons, of certain ages, for the remainder of life, after the determination of the
life in expectation, upon the present payment of one hundred dollars, computing
interest at four per cent, per annum, and the duration of life, according to Dr. Hal-
ley's tables.

H. Table for a Tontine of Six Classes, the number of lives in each class being
indefinite, calculated on a payment of two hundred dollars by each subscriber, and
at a rate of interest of four per cent. The computation on the best life in each
Class, and on the supposition that the subscribers to each Class will not be less
than the respective numbers specified in the first column.

I. General Estimate for the services of the current year.

K. Estimate of the probable product of the funds proposed for funding the
debt, and providing for the current service of the United States, including the pre-
sent duties on imports and tonnage.— State Papers— Finance, vol. i. pp. 26-37.

-♦-•-•-

KEMISSION OF FOEFEITUEES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 19, 1790.

Treasury Department, January 19th, 1790.

In obedience to the order of the House of Eepresentatives, of
the 11th instant, referring to the Secretary of the Treasury the
petition of Christopher Sadler, the said Secretary most respect-
fully reports :

That, except the letter from the Collector of the district of
Boston and Charlestown, accompanying the petition, there is no
evidence immediately within reach, respecting the ground of
the application for relief.

That, though the letter is entirely satisfactory to the mind of
the Secretary, that the affair is of a nature to entitle the petition-
er to relief, yet, he does not consider it as such a document, as,
in point of precedent, would justify the interposition of the Leg-

Mt. 33.] REMISSION OF FORFEITURES. 47

islature to grant it. The Secretary will, therefore, take meas-
ures for a more regular authentication of the nature of the
transaction, and will submit the result. To this, therefore, is
the farther inducement of its being necessary to ascertain
whether the persons who may be interested in the forfeiture, are
disposed to relinquish their right.

The Secretary, however, begs leave to avail himself of the
occasion, to represent to the House, that there are other instan-
ces which have come under his notice, in which considerable
forfeitures have been incurred, manifestly through inadvertence
and want of information — circumstances which cannot fail to at-
tend the recent promulgation of laws of such a nature, and seem
to indicate the necessity, in conformity to the usual policy of
commercial nations, of vesting, somewhere, a discretionary power
of granting relief.

That necessity, though peculiarly great in the early stages of
new regulations, does not cease to operate throughout the pro-
gress of them. There occasionally occur incidents from which
heavy and ruinous forfeitures ensue, that require the constant
existence of some power capable of affording relief.

The proper investment of such a power is a matter of too
much delicacy and importance to be determined otherwise than
upon mature deliberation. Yet, the Secretary begs leave to sub-
mit to the consideration of the House, whether a temporary
arrangement might not be made, with expedition and safety,
which would avoid the inconvenience of a legislative decision
on particular applications.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES FOR 1790.

Communnicated to the House of Representatives, March 2, 1790.

Treasury Department, March 1, 1790.

Pursuant to the act for establishing the Treasury Department,
the Secretary of the Treasury respectfully reports to the House
of Representatives, that, in addition to the estimate for the ser-
vice of the current }Tear, which accompanied his report of the
9th of January, there are various other objects for which an ap-
propriation is requisite, and which are detailed in the schedules
herewith submitted, numbered I and II.

Among the objects specified in the schedule No. I, the
House will observe the following :

The erection of a light-house on Cape Henry ;

Salaries to the late commissioners of loans, from the 30th of
June to the 31st December last ;

Interest on certain loans made, and necessary to be made, for
the current service ;

Sum requisite to complete the payment of interest on the
Dutch loans to the first of July next.

In respect to which several matters, the Secretary begs leave
to state —

First : As to the erection of a light-house on Cape Henry.
That the Commonwealth of Virginia, in conformity to the act of
the last session, for the establishment and support of light-
houses, &c, has passed a law empowering its Governor to cede
to the United States, as well the jurisdiction over, as the right
of soil in, as much land, not exceeding two acres, situate at a
place called the Headland of Cape Henry, as shall be sufficient
to erect a light-house upon ; which cession, it is of course to be
expected, will speedily be completed ; and an appropriation of a
competent sum is, therefore, necessary towards executing the
provision of the said act for erecting a light-house at the en-
trance of the Chesapeake, which, it is of importance to the navi-

jEt. 33.] ADDITIONAL ESTIMATES. 49

gation of that part of the Union, should be accomplished as
speedily as possible.

Secondly : As to the salaries of the late commissioners of
loans. Those officers were still in the execution of the duties
they had been appointed to perform, when the organization of
the present Treasury Department took place ; and it appeared to
the Secretary advisable to continue them in that situation to the
end of the year, which has been accordingly done, subject to the
discretion of the Legislature, in respect to compensation.

Thirdly : As to the interest on loans for the current service.
Those which have been already made were the result of neces-
sity ; they have been in great part satisfied, and the residue will
shortly be reimbursed out of the product of the duties : but the
interest being an extra expenditure, requires an appropriation ;
and, as a farther anticipation of the receipts into the treasury, to
satisfy immediate demands upon it, will be unavoidable, it is
necessary that this, also, should be provided for. Obvious con-
siderations dictate the propriety, in future cases, of making pre-
vious provision, by law, for such loans as the public exigencies
may call for, defining their extent, and giving special authority
to make them.

Fourthly : As to the sum for completing the payment of in-
terest on the Dutch loans to the first of July. The rate of ex-
change, at the present juncture, renders it peculiarly convenient
to remit from this country the sum necessary for that purpose ;
and it is important to the public credit, that immediate provision
should be accordingly made.

The Secretary further begs leave to observe, that occasions
occur, from time to time, which fall under no stated head of
expenditure ; for which, provision, in some mode or other, is
necessary. A circumstance, at present existing, may serve as an
example. There are persons who have been for some time asso-
ciated in the practice of counterfeiting the securities of the United
States, in a way which renders detection difficult, and has been
productive of numerous impositions on individuals. The appre-
hension and punishment of these persons is, evidently, a matter
of serious public concern, and the necessity of being able to offer

50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

rewards for that purpose, is apparent ; but the want of a provi-
sion for it is an impediment. Whether the appropriation of a
moderate sum, for such cases, to be disposed of under the direc-
tion of the President of the United States, would not be a proper
measure, is humbly submitted to the wisdom of the House.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

STATE DEBTS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives. 'March 4. 1790.

Treasury Department. March 4. 1790.

In obedience to the order of the House of ^Representatives,
of the 2d instant, the Secretary of the Treasury respectfully
reports :

That, in his opinion, the funds, in the first instance, requisite
towards the payment of interest on the debts of the individ-
ual States, according to the modifications proposed by him in
his report of the 9th of January past, may be obtained from the
following objects :

An increase of the general product of the duties on goods
imported, by abolishing the discount of ten per cent, allowed by
the fifth section of the act for laying a duty on goods, wares, and
merchandises, imported into the United States, in respect to
goods imported in American bottoms, and adding ten per cent
to the rates specified, in respect to goods imported in foreign
bottoms, with certain exceptions and qualifications. This change,
without impairing the commercial policy of the regulation, or
making an inconvenient addition to the general rates of the
duties, will occasion an augmentation of the revenue little short
of two hundred thousand dollars.

An additional duty on imported sugars. Sugars are an ob-
ject of general consumption, and yet constitute a small propor-

jEt. 33.] STATE DEBTS. 51

tion of the expense of families. A moderate addition to the pre-
sent rates would not be felt. From the bulkiness of the articles,
such an addition may he made with due regard to the safety of
collection. The quantity of brown and other inferior kinds of
sugar imported, appears to exceed twenty-two millions of pounds,
which, at a half cent per pound, would produce one hundred
and ten thousand dollars. Proportional impositions on foreign
refined sugar, and proper drawbacks on exportation, ought
of course to indemnify the manufacturers of this article among
ourselves.

Molasses, being in some of the States a substitute for sugar,
a small addition to the duty on that article, ought to accompany
an increase of the duty on sugar. This, however, ought to be
regulated with proper attention to the circumstances, that the
same article will contribute largely in the shape of distilled
spirits. Half a cent per gallon on molasses, would yield an
annual sum of thirty thousand dollars. Our distillers of spirits,
from this material, may be compensated by a proportional ex-
tension of the duty on imported spirits.

Snuff, and other manufactured tobacco, made within the
United States. Ten cents per pound on the snuff, and six cents
on other kinds of manufactured tobacco, would be likely to pro-
duce annually, from ninety to one hundred thousand dollars.
From as good evidence as the nature of the case will admit, the
quantity of these articles manufactured in the United States,
may be computed to exceed a million and a half of pounds. The
imposition of this duty would require an increase of the duty on
importation, and a drawback on exportation in favor of the
manufacturer. This, being an absolute superfluity, is the fairest
object of revenue that can be imagined, and may be so regulated
as, in no degree, to injure either the growth or manufacture of
the commodity.

Pepper, pimento, spices in general, and various other kinds
of groceries. These articles will bear such additional rates as
may be estimated to yield a sum of not less than thirty thousand
dollars. Computing according to the entries in the State of New
York, in 1788, the yearly quantity of pepper and pimento,

52 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

brought into the United States is not less than eight hundred
thousand pounds, of which about a third is pepper. Six cents
on pepper, and four cents on pimento (with drawbacks on ex-
portation), may, without inconvenience, be laid.

Salt. An additional duty of six cents per bushel, may, in
the judgment of the Secretary, with propriety be laid on this
article. It is one of those objects, which, being consumed by
all, will be most productive, and yet, from the smallness of the
quantity in which it is consumed by any, and of the price,
will be least burthensome, if confined within reasonable limits.
If a government does not avail itself, to a proper extent, of re-
sources like these, it must, of necessity, overcharge others, and
particularly, give greater scope to direct taxation. The quantity
of this article annually imported, being at least a million and a
half of bushels, the annual product of an additional duty of six
cents may be computed at ninety thousand dollars.

Carriages, such as coaches, chariots, &c. These articles may
certainly be the subject of a considerable duty ; how productive
it would be, is not easy to be estimated. But it is imagined,
that it would yield not less than fifty thousand dollars per
annum.

Licenses to practisers of the law, certain law writings, and
various kinds of writings. The extent of this resource can only
be determined upon trial ; but the Secretary feels a strong assur-
ance that there may be drawn from it yearly, not less than two
hundred thousand dollars. The system for collecting a duty of
this kind, would embrace playing cards, and some other objects
of luxury, which do not fall under the above descriptions, but
which are estimated in the supposed product.

Sales at auction (exclusive of houses or lands, or of those
made in consequence of legal process, or of acknowledged insol-
vency). One per cent, on such sales would probably produce a
yearly sum of forty or fifty thousand dollars.

Wines and spirits, sold at retail. These articles are, in the
opinion of the Secretary, capable of being rendered far more pro-
ductive, than has been generally contemplated ; and they are,
certainly, among the most unexceptionable objects of revenue.

Ml. 33.] STATE DEBTS. 53

It is presumed that two hundred thousand dollars per annum
may, with facility, be collected from the retailment of these
articles.

The foregoing objects are those which appear to the Secre-
tary preferable towards a provision for the debts of the indivi-
dual States. There are others, which have occurred to him as
supplementary, in case the experiment should discover a defi-
ciency in the expected product, but which, he conceives it un-
necessary now to detail. He will only add, that he entertains
no doubt of its being practicable to accomplish the end on the
principles of his former report, without the necessity of taxing
either houses or lands, or the stock or the produce of farms.

The Secretary, conceiving the design of the House to have
been, to obtain from him a general delineation only of the funds
competent, in his judgment to the provision in question, has re-
frained from those details which would be indispensable, if that
provision were immediately to be made, and to have furnished
which, would have occasioned greater delay than would pro-
bably have suited with the present state of the business, or the
convenience of the House. He, with great deference, trusts, that
what is now offered will be deemed a satisfactory compliance
with their order.

The statement required respecting the product of the duties
on imports and tonnage, to the last of December, as far as returns
have come to hand, is contained in the schedule herewith.
All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

Schedule— Abstract of the net proceeds of the duties on Imports and Tonnage.
— Stale Papers — Finance, p. 44.

54 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

OPERATIONS OF THE ACT LAYING DUTIES ON

IMPORTS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, April 23, 1790.

Treasury Department, April 22(1, 1790.

In obedience to the order of the House of Representatives of the
19th day of January last, the Secretary of the Treasury re-
spectfully submits the following report :

First. As to the act imposing duties on goods, wares, and mer-
chandise, imported into the United States.

Section 1. The duties specified in this act, according to this
section, took effect throughout the United States from and after
the first day of August last. But as the act for the collection of
those duties did not pass till the last of July, it was of course
impossible that the officers for carrying it into execution could
be appointed, commissioned, and ready to enter upon the execu-
tion of their offices, at the day fixed for the commencement of
the duties. The custom houses in the several States were not
organized till at different periods, from the fifth of August to
some time in September ; and in the intervals, several importa-
tions took place. In some instances, duties were paid under the
State laws, in others none were paid.

The Secretary, conceiving it to be a clear point, that the du-
ties, imposed by the first mentioned act, accrued as debts to the
United States, on all goods imported after the day specified for
their commencement, and that the regulations prescribed by the
collection law were to be considered merely as auxiliary guards,
for securing their due payment, did not think himself at liberty,
on grounds of convenience or inconvenience, to waive the claim
for them. He has therefore caused it to be made, and has given
directions, with a view to a legal decision of the question.

But it is worthy of consideration by the Legislature, Avhether
it be advisable to pursue, or relinquish it. The payment of the
duties in this situation has been generally unlooked for, and, in

JEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 55

most cases, must be preceded by a legal determination. The en-
forcement of the claim would therefore be likely to be thought
rigorous, and, in some instances, might be injurious — where mer-
chants may have sold, without reference in the price to the duty ;
where factors or agents may have settled accounts with, and paid
over the proceeds of goods to, their principals, especially if tran-
sient persons ; where duties have been paid under the State
establishments ; in these and other cases, there might ensue loss
or embarrassment. There must also be difficulty in ascertaining
the sums which ought to be paid.

The distinctions between distilled spirits are conceived not to
be sufficiently diversified or accurate. This has been remarked,
and a remedy proposed, in the plan submitted to the House for
the support of the public credit.

There is no general rate prescribed for estimating the draught
and tare of those articles which pay duty by weight. The con-
sequence is, that different allowances are made at different places,
according to former usage, and too much is left to discretion.

Unwrought steel is rated at fifty-six cents for 112 lbs., which,
upon an average of the cost, is less than five per cent, ad valorem.
As an enumerated article, it is presumed to have been the inten-
tion of the Legislature to rate it higher than five per cent., espe-
cially as a higher rate would be in favor of the manufacture of
it among ourselves, in which considerable progress has been
made, particularly in the State of Pennsylvania.

The information received by the Secretary, induces him to
consider as questionable, the policy of the duty on pickled fish,
in its present extent. It is represented, that almost the whole of
what is brought from Nova Scotia to Massachusetts, is re-ex-
ported ; and this chiefly to foreign countries. And that, while
it forms a considerable article in an intercouse between those
places, beneficial to Massachusetts, it contributes to the augmen-
tation of her exports.

If this be true, it is difficult to discern any advantage in the
duty. To the revenue there will be rather loss than profit ; as
the expense, incident to the collection, and to the process of the
drawback, will probably exceed the amount of the duty on the

56 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

small quantity internally consumed, even taking into the calcu-
lation the one per cent, retained as an indemnification for that
expense. In a commercial light, as far as it has any operation,
it seems to be rather an unfavorable one. The process of paying
and drawing back, is not without inconveniences ; and the unre-
funded residue is a tax on the export trade in that article, from
which, for the reason assigned, no benefit arises to the public ;
while the encouragement, which it was the object of this regula-
tion to give to the fisheries, loses, in a great measure, its effect,
by reason of the drawback. And it is suggested by intelligent
men, that an injurious competition in the branch of the fisheries,
to which the duty is applicable, is little to be apprehended.

The Secretary, however, does not conceive himself to be pos-
sessed with sufficient accuracy of all the facts necessary to a
right judgment on this point, to be willing to hazard a decisive
opinion. He therefore only means to state the circumstances
communicated to him, in expectation that the Representatives
from the part of the Union more immediately affected, will be
able, by further lights, to guide the opinion of the House to a
proper conclusion.

A discrimination is made by this section, in favor of teas
brought from China or India, in American bottoms. The fifth
section allows a discount of ten per cent, on all the duties im-
posed by this act, on goods, wares, and merchandises, imported
in American bottoms. A question arises, whether this discount
ought to obtain, in respect to the above-mentioned teas. The
Secretary presumes, that the better construction is against the
allowance, though within the letter of the provision ; but an ex-
planation is, perhaps, requisite, to obviate controversy.

All goods, wares, and merchandise, except teas, brought from
China or India, otherwise than in American bottoms, are made
liable to a duty of twelve and a half per cent, ad valorem. But
in the clause immediately succeeding, all China ware is rated
only at ten per cent, ad valorem. A doubt suggests itself, whe-
ther this article be excepted out of the preceding provision, or
be itself subject to an implied exception, in favor of the full
operation of that provision.

iET. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 57

It is suggested, that the encouragement intended to our East
India trade, by the duty of twelve and a half per cent, on India
goods brought from China in foreign bottoms, will be counter-
acted by the want of a greater duty than is now laid on the
same goods, brought from Europe ; as competition is more to be
apprehended through that channel, than from direct importations,
in foreign bottoms, from India. While the Secretary deems it
proper to bring this suggestion into the view of the House, he
forbears giving an opinion as to the weight it ought to have. He
perceives various advantages in a direct commerce with the East
Indies, and is hitherto inclined to believe it merits the patronage
of the Government ; but the tendency of it is not yet suffi-
ciently developed, to his judgment, to leave him wholly without
reserve, as to the extent of the encouragement which ought to
be given.

Commodities of our own growth or manufacture, carried to a
foreign port, and brought back again to the United States, are,
by this act, liable to duty. The tendency of this to discourage
commercial enterprise, recommends the expediency of an exemp-
tion upon due proof of identity.

The sea stores of vessels, the furniture, clothing, and profes-
sional apparatus, of persons arriving in this country, from abroad,
seem equally liable to duties with goods brought by way of mer-
chandise. They have been in several instances exacted ; but the
payment is usually accompanied with remonstrance and discon-
tent. If it was not the intent of the Legislature to include such
articles, an explanation is necessary. Yarious considerations
plead for exempting them, under proper limitations.

Section 2. From this section, it has been doubted whether there
be, at present, any duty on hemp. And it has been inferred
from the debates, to have been the intention of the Legislature
to exempt it, till after the first of December, 1790 ; but the con-
struction of the act is different. There is a duty on cotton as
well as hemp, to take place at a future day. But cotton, in the
mean time, is expressly excepted out of the five per cent, duty,
which impliedly excludes hemp from the like exception. As

c 5

58 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

the act now stands, it will be a question, when the duty of sixty
cents per hundred weight takes place, whether it be in addition
to, or in lieu of, the present duty.

Section 3. Provision is here made for a drawback of the duties
on goods exported within twelve months, with an exception of
certain kinds of distilled spirits, and a deduction of one per cent.

But there is no provision for entries for exportation ; whence
it happens, that a vessel arriving from a foreign port, with part
of her cargo destined for the United States, and other part for
some other country, is obliged to pay or secure the payment of
the duties on her whole cargo ; and in strictness, even to land
such articles, as require weighing, gauging, or measuring, in order
to the ascertaining of the duties. This is complained of as a
hardship, and is contrary to the prevailing usage of commercial
nations. The Secretary is of opinion, that the complaint is well
founded ; and that it is advisable that entries for exportation,
with proper precautions and restrictions, should be authorized.
The interests of the revenue can, with advantage, be consulted
no further than they are consistent with the necessary freedom
and facility of commercial intercourse.

The allowance of drawbacks does not obviate the subject of
complaint. The necessity of advancing the money, or procuring
security for the amount of the duties ; the necessity of landing
those articles which require to be weighed, measured, or gauged
(which must in the first instance be submitted to), are material
inconveniences ; and the process for obtaining drawbacks, is
attended with difficulty, casualty, and trouble. There must be a
bond given not to re-land the goods ; and this bond must be can-
celled by certain proofs, which may not, in all cases, be obtain-
able ; but which are, nevertheless, made a pre-requisite to the
payment of the drawbacks. Nor can that payment, at any rate,
be had, till after the expiration of six months : so that, even
where security is given for the amount of the duties, it must
often happen that they become payable before parties can be pre-
pared to demand the drawback ; and the one per cent, retained,
is, in every case, a certain loss. These circumstances, to transient
persons especially, operate as a grievance.

jEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 59

Secondly. As to the act imposing duties on tonnage.

The duties mentioned in this act, are upon all ships or vessels,
entered into the United States.

The entry, therefore, is the circumstance which regulates the
payment of the duty.

But a doubt has arisen, whether the duty ought to be deemed
to accrue on every entry, or only on entries from foreign coun-
tries.

The construction which has been adopted, is, that it accrues
on every entry, whether from abroad, or in one part of the
United States from another.

One reason for this construction results from the second sec-
tion, which provides that vessels built and owned in the United
States, whilst employed in the coasting trade or fisheries, shall
not pay tonnage more than once a year. If the duty were con-
fined to entries from abroad only, it could not arise at all on ves-
sels employed in the coasting trade, whilst so employed ; in
which case, this provision would be wholly nugatory. The last
clause of the twenty-third section of the " act for registering and
clearing vessels, regulating the coasting trade, and for other pur-
poses," looks also to the same construction ; strongly implying
the payment of tonnage, generally, between district and district,
and enlarging the rate in a particular case.

Yet the third section of the act now under consideration has
been supposed to have a different aspect, as it subjects all vessels,
except those built within, and owned by citizens of, the United
States, employed in transporting our own commodities, coastwise,
to a tonnage of fifty cents at each entry ; whence it has been infer-
red, that, in other cases, the duty is not payable at each entry ;
because, by the first section, vessels wholly foreign pay fifty
cents, whether employed in the coasting trade or not. But this
inference loses its force, when it is observed, that there are other
descriptions of vessels, in respect to which it serves to increase
the rates specified in the first section, in favor of the exclusive
privilege, to transport our own commodities coastwise, intended
to be secured to vessels built within, and owned by citizens of,

60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

the United States. This suggests a use for the clause, which is
reconcilable with the provision in the second section.

The provisions of this act, however, appear to be varied by
the " act for registering and clearing vessels, regulating the
coasting trade, and for other purposes," in these particulars.
The latter extends the privileges in the coasting trade, which, by
the former, seem to be confined to vessels of the built of the
United States, to all vessels which are registered or enrolled,
provided they obtain licenses for the purpose. It also extends
the duty of fifty cents to the transportation of foreign (as well as
domestic) commodities, from district to district, by any vessel of
the burthen of twenty tons and upwards, which has not a register
or enrolment, and a license to trade.

Hence, if even a registered vessel, having no license, proceed
from one district, with part of an outward bound cargo, to ano-
ther district, in order to procure the remainder, and happen to
take in a freight, at the first place, for the last, which amounts to
a trading between the districts, she is subject, on her entry in the
last, to foreign tonnage.

The propriety of this construction has been questioned ; but
a consideration of the general spirit of the coasting act, which
aims at guarding the revenue against evasion, by the precautions
annexed to the granting of licenses, and an accurate attention to
the words of the last clause of the twenty-third section of that act,
seem to leave no room for a different construction. These words
are, "And if any vessel of the burthen of twenty tons, or up-
wards, not having a certificate of registry or enrolment, and a
licence, shall be found trading between different districts, or be
employed in the bank or whale fisheries, every such ship or
vessel shall be subject to the same tonnage and fees as foreign
ships or vessels."

This provision, for want of having been understood in the
proper sense, has, in a variety of instances, borne hard upon
individuals who have omitted to procure licenses, and whose
vessels have been, on that account, subjected to foreign tonnage.
It is submitted to the consideration of the House, whether resti-
tution of the sums paid, through misapprehension of a new law,

Mr. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 61

would not be equitable in itself, and calculated to give a favora-
ble impression of the liberality of the Government.

Perhaps, indeed, the expediency of the regulation itself merits
reconsideration. The necessity of paying tonnage at all, in go-
ing from one district to another, has been a subject of complaint.
And it is certain that it has, in many cases, been a burthensome
operation. It would appear to the Secretary, upon the whole,
eligible, that, upon entries from district to district, tonnage
should, in no case, be demanded, except where a freight had
been taken in, at one district, for another ; and that, even there,
in respect to vessels registered, but not licensed, half tonnage
only should be paid.

Thirdly. As to the act to regulate the collection of the duties im-
posed by laiu on the tonnage of ships or vessels, and on goods, wares,
and merchandise, imported into the United States.

Sections 1, 2, 3, and 4. The arrangement of the districts, the
privileges granted to some ports, the restrictions upon others,
have been represented, in a few instances, as requiring alteration.
The Secretary is inclined to think that some of the representa-
tions, made to him, will deserve attention ; but, as he presumes
that the course of business will lead to the appointment of a spe-
cial committee, to prepare a bill for amending the laws under
consideration, there are reasons which, with the permission of
the House, would induce him to reserve a more particular com-
munication, on this part of the subject, for that committee.

Section 5. This section contemplates a provision of boats, for
securing the collection of the revenue ; but no authority to pro-
vide them is any where given. Information, from several quar-
ters, proves the necessity of having them ; nor can they, in
the opinion of the Secretary, fail to contribute, in a material
degree, to the security of the revenue, much more than will com-
pensate for the expense of the establishment : the utility of
which will increase in proportion as the public exigencies may
require an augmentation of the duties. An objection has been

62 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

made to the measure, as betraying an improper distrust of the
merchants ; but, that objection can have no weight, when it is
considered that it would be equally applicable to all the precau-
tions comprehended in the existing system ; all which proceed
on a supposition, too well founded to be doubted, that there are
persons concerned in trade, in every country, who will, if they
can, evade the public duties for their private benefit. Justice to
the body of the merchants of the United States demands an
acknowledgment that they have, very generally, manifested a
disposition to conform to the national laws, which does them
honor, and authorizes confidence in their probity. But every
considerate member of that body knows that this confidence
admits of exceptions, and that it is essentially the interest of the
greater number that every possible guard should be set on the
fraudulent few, which does not, in fact, tend to the embarrass-
ment of trade.

The following is submitted as a proper establishment for this
purpose :

That there be ten boats, two for the coasts, bays, and harbors,
of Massachusetts and New Hampshire ; one for the sound,
between Long Island and Connecticut ; one for the bay of New-
York ; one for the bay of Delaware ; two for the bay of the
Chesapeake; (these, of course, to ply along the neighboring
coasts ;) one for the coasts, bays, and harbors, of North Caro-
lina ; one for the coasts, bays, and harbors, of South Carolina ;
and one for the coasts, bays, and harbors, of Georgia.

Boats of from thirty-six to forty feet keel will answer the pur-
pose, each having one captain, one lieutenant, and six mariners,
and armed with swivels. The first cost of one of these boats,
completely equipped, may be computed at one thousand dollars.
The following is an estimate of the annual expense :
10 Captains, at 40 dollars per month, $4,800
10 Lieutenants, at 25 do. do. 3,000

60 Seamen, at 8 do. do. 5,760

Provision, 3,000

Wear and tear, 2,000

$18,560

jEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 63

The utility of an establishment of this nature must depend on
the exertion, vigilance, and fidelity, of those to whom the charge
of the boats shall be confided. If these are not respectable cha-
racters, they will rather serve to screen than detect fraud. To
procure such, a liberal compensation must be given, and, in addi-
tion to this, it will, in the opinion of the Secretary, be advisable
that they be commissioned as officers of the navy. This will not
only induce fit men the more readily to engage, but will attach
them to their duty by a nicer sense of honor.

Section 6. Collectors are here authorized, in case of necessary
absence, sickness, or inability, to appoint deputies. It is repre-
sented that inconveniences have arisen from the want of the like
power in the naval officers and surveyors.

Section 7. Provision is here made for the case of the disability
or death of the collector, but not of the naval officer or surveyor.
A similar provision, with respect to them, appears to be not less
requisite.

Section 10. The provision of this section seems to extend too
far. It is conceived that it ought to be confined to vessels owned
wholly, or in part, by citizens of the United States ; as it is not
supposable that those of other nations can be acquainted with a
regulation so entirely local in its nature, or be prepared to com-
ply with it. - There is also want of a penalty to enforce its
observance.

This regulation has been represented as inconvenient and
useless ; but the Secretary does not view it in this light. It is
probable that it will contribute to the security of the revenue, by
rendering more difficult those collusions between masters and
owners, which often take place after the arrival of vessels upon
the coast, or within port.

Section 11. Masters of vessels, within forty-eight hours after
their arrival in any port of the United States, are to make report.
It is not explained, whether they are not at liberty, in the mean

64 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

time, to proceed elsewhere. The construction of the officers of
the customs, in several instances, has been in favor of such liberty.
But this construction does not appear to the Secretary well
founded. He conceives that the duties become payable by the
act of importation, even previously to entry, and that the forty-
eight hours are only allowed as a reasonable time for the master
to prepare his report ; after which he is to be subject to a penalty
for not doing it. An explanation, however, may prevent dis-
putes.

It is also submitted, whether masters ought not to be required,
within twelve hours after their arrival, to announce it at the
custom-house, and to complete their report within twenty- four,
with an exception for Sundays. It is of moment, that vessels
arriving should be brought, as speedily as possible, under the
notice of the proper officers, and that their situation should be
ascertained as early as practicable. More time than is necessary
for disclosing it with proper accuracy, can be of no real use, and
gives greater opportunity for concerting frauds.

In the oath here prescribed for masters of vessels, there is no
view to those casualties which may cause the cargo to be dimin-
ished at sea. There ought to be room for making the proper
exceptions, according to the circumstances. And it would be
useful to make it a part of the oath, that any goods afterwards
discovered on board, shall be reported ; as in the case of import-
ers or consignees.

Section 12. It is here declared that no goods shall be unladen
but in open day. It would be more safe, as well as more certain,
to fix particular hours for the purpose, according to different
seasons of the year. And it is submitted, whether all lading,
as well as unlading of goods, at other hours, unless by special
license from the officers of the customs, ought not to be for-
bidden. If, in addition to this, masters of vessels were required
to give previous notice to the officers assigned to their respec-
tive vessels, of the times when deliveries are intended to begin,
it would afford an increase of security.

This section contains various penalties on persons concerned

vEt.33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 65

in unlading and removing goods, without the requisite permits.
It would be a most powerful check upon fraud, if every master
of a vessel, concerned in one, should, on conviction, be disquali-
fied, under competent penalties, from having, at any time after,
the command or charge of a vessel within the United States.
There are, however, objections of weight to such a provision.

Section 13. The effect of this section is to oblige the payment
or securing of the duties on all the goods brought in any vessel,
at the port at which, she first arrives, though part of them be
destined for another, either within the United States, or else-
where. This regulation is a subject of complaint. Its inconve-
nience becomes the more apparent, when it is considered that all
the goods intended for another port must first be landed (and
certain articles measured, weighed, or gauged), and afterwards
reshipped. The trouble, expense, and delay of such a process,
are serious obstructions to trade. Balancing its commercial
inconveniences with the additional security which it may afford
to the revenue, the Secretary is of opinion that an alteration is
advisable. It should be incumbent upon the master of the ship
to make report, at the first port, of the whole cargo on board,
upon oath, distinguishing the particular goods intended for each
port ; and also to make oath, at every subsequent port, of the
particulars of the goods landed at any preceding one, and of the
persons to and for whom they were delivered ; producing also
certificates from the proper officers, of the whole quantity of the
goods originally entered, and of so much as may have been regu-
larly landed. A power of securing, with proper fastenings, the
hatches, and other communications with the holds of ships ; pro-
viding for accidents and necessity ; and even, if judged requisite,
to put an inspector on board, in going from one port to another*
ought to be superadded.

No person but the owner or consignee of goods can make the
entry here required. This, from the absence of parties, is some-
times inconvenient. It is the practice of countries, whose regu-
lations are not deficient in strictness, to allow an agent of the
party to make entry in his absence. And though this may widen

66 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

the door for evasion, there are, nevertheless, strong arguments,
derived from convenience, in its favor. Penalties, proportiona-
bly severe, may be inflicted, upon fraud committed by any such
agent, and the permission may be confined to the case of persons
absent at the time of the arrival of the vessel in which the goods
may have been brought.

The oath here directed to be taken by importers is not always
in their power. There may be no invoice, nor any other accu-
rate account of the quantity, quality, or cost of articles. A
qualification in this respect is indispensable. Entries, without
specifying particulars, must, of necessity, be admitted; parties
swearing that they have received no account of them, and that
they are unknown. An eye is had to this in the sixteenth sec-
tion, but something is wanting to reconcile the two sections, and
define a more accurate course of proceeding in the case.

Section 15. Inspectors are to be put on board vessels, who are
to remain on board until they are discharged. This implies,
during the night as well as the day; which, if practised, would
multiply the number of inspectors to a very expensive extent.
A power of securing the hatches, and other communications with
the holds of vessels, during the night, would give greater secu-
rity, where inspectors were kept constantly on board, and would,
in many instances, obviate the necessity of doing it.

The unloading of a vessel is here limited to fifteen working
days after she begins to unload. But the commencement of the
business may be postponed, as long as the parties interested
think fit. If there should be considerable delay, either an
inspector must remain on board the whole time, in which case
the expense may exhaust the duty, or there must be great oppor-
tunity for fraud. It seems proper, either to fix an ultimate
limit for unloading, to be computed from the time of arrival,
or of the master's report ; or a period, after which, the expense
of an inspector shall be borne by the party. The first appears to
the Secretary most advisable, and he conceives that twenty work-
ing days, after the master's report, would suffice.

JEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS 67

Section 19. The payment, or securing of the duties, is here
made a preliminary to their being landed. This, in a strict
sense, is impracticable, as certain articles must first be landed,
weighed, gauged, or measured, before the duties can be ascer-
tained. The object, however, of the provision, is proper, and
it must be construed to admit a gross estimate of the sum,
in the first instance, subject to after revision. It would, however,
be desirable, that a discretion of this sort should be expressed.
The collector, together with the naval officer, where there is
one, or alone, where there is none, may be authorized to determine
the amount of the duties to be paid, by an estimate of the same,
according to the best of their or his judgment, and the collector
may be empowered, in case of an over-estimate, either to return
the excess, if the money has been paid, or to indorse a credit for
it on the bond.

A discount of ten per cent, is here allowed for prompt pay-
ment, on the excess of any sum of duties beyond fifty dollars.
The policy of this discount is questionable. Experience shows,
that, in most of the States, transient persons chiefly avail them-
selves of it, who would, in most cases, pay the money without
the discount, to avoid the inconvenience of suretyship.

But if even the discount ought to be continued, the rate seems
to be too high. It exceeds the rate of interest at which the
Government may borrow, more than is equivalent for the insu-
rance of the risk of non-payment. Seven per cent, would, in the
judgment of the Secretary, be the extent of a proper allowance.
The confining the discount to the excess beyond fifty dollars, coun-
teracts the provision wherever that excess is not considerable.

It is provided by the last clause of this section, that no
person, whose bond is unsatisfied, after it becomes due, shall
have a future credit with the collector, until it shall be dis-
charged. The words "the collector," have been supposed to
confine the non-allowance of credit to the particular collector
to whom the bond was given ; in which sense, a further credit
may be had in another district; which would considerably
lessen the utility of the regulation. The removal of this anibi-

68 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

guity, so as to render the exclusion general, may add to the
efficacy of the provision.

Section 29. The compensations to the officers established by
this section require revision ; they are, in many instances, ina-
dequate ; in some, disproportionate. Eesignations, in consequence
of it, have taken place, and others are suspended on the expecta-
tion of a favorable alteration during the present session. It is
certain, that competent allowances are essential to the idea of
having the service performed by characters worthy of trust. And
how much the security of the revenue depends on this, is evident.
There are many ports where the officers receive next to nothing
for their services. It were superfluous to comment on the inex-
pediency of such a state of things.

The Secretary, for the sake of brevity, begs leave to reserve
the details, on this head, for the committee before alluded to.

It has been inferred, from this section, that the collector
and naval officer are, necessarily, to transact their business in
separate apartments. This (if it be the design of the provision
from which the inference is drawn) was, probably, founded upon
the idea, that the separation would lessen the danger of collu-
sion between those officers. But it does not seem likely that a
circumstance of this sort could have much effect in that way,
while the separation leaves a good deal more in the power of
the collector, and renders the naval officer far less a check upon
him, than if he were made an immediate witness to his transac-
tions. The Secretary is of opinion, that it would be preferable
to require them to act in conjunction, and in the presence of
each other, among other things, jointly administering and cer-
tifying all oaths required to be taken at the custom houses.

Section. 30. This section provides for the receipt of the duties
in gold and silver coin only. The Secretary has considered this
provision as having for object, the exclusion of payments in the
paper emissions of the particular States, and the securing the
immediate or ultimate collection of the duties in specie, as in-
tended to prohibit to individuals the right of paying in any

Me. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 69

thing except gold or silver coin ; but not to hinder the treasury
from making such arrangements as its exigencies, the speedy
command of the public resources, and the convenience of the
community, might dictate ; those arrangements being compatible
with the eventual receipt of the duties in specie. For instance,
the Secretary did not imagine that the provision ought to be so
understood as to prevent, if necessary, an anticipation of the
duties, by treasury drafts, receivable at the several custom
houses. And, if it ought not to be understood in this sense, it
appeared to him that the principle of a different construction
would extend to the permitting the receipt of the notes of public
banks, issued on a specie fund. Unless it can be supposed, that
the exchanging of specie, after it has been received for bank
notes, to be remitted to the treasury, is also interdicted, it seems
difficult to conclude that the receipt of them, in the first in-
stance, is forbidden.

Such were the reflections of the Secretary with regard to
the authority to permit bank notes to be taken in payment of
the duties. The expediency of doing it appeared to him to be
still less questionable. The extension of their circulation, by the
measure, is calculated to increase both the ability and the incli-
nation of the banks to aid the Government. It alsoaccelerates
the command of the product of the revenues for the public ser-
vice, and it facilitates the payment of the duties. It has the
first effect, because the course of business occasions the notes to
be sent beforehand to distant places; and being ready on the
spot, either for payment or exchange, the first post, after the
duties become payable, or are received, conveys them to the
treasury. The substitution of treasury drafts, anticipating the
duties, could hardly be made without some sacrifice on the part
of the public. As they would be drawn upon time, and upon
the expectation of funds to be collected, and, of course, contin-
gent, it is not probable that they would obtain a ready sale, but
at a discount, or upon long credit. As they would also be more
or less liable to accident, from the failure of expected pay-
ments, there would be continually a degree of hazard to pub-
lic credit. And, to other considerations, it may be added,

70 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

that the practice of anticipations of this kind, is, in its nature, so
capable of abuse, as to render it an in-eligible instrument of
administration, in ordinary cases, and fit only for times of ne-
cessity.

If the idea of anticipation should be excluded, then the rely-
ing wholly upon treasury drafts would be productive of consi-
derable delay. The knowledge, that funds were in hand, must
precede the issuing of them. Here would, of course, be some loss
of time. And as the moment of demand, created by the course
of business, would frequently elapse, there would, as frequently,
be a farther loss of time in waiting for a new demand. In such
intervals, the public service would suffer, the specie would be
locked up, and circulation checked. Bank notes being a con-
venient species of money, whatever increases their circulation,
increases the quantity of current money. Hence, the payment
of duties is doubly promoted by their aid ; they at once add to
the quantity of medium, and serve to prevent the stagnation of
specie.

The tendency of the measure to lessen the necessity of draw-
ing specie from distant places to the seat of Government results
from the foregoing considerations. The slow operation of trea-
sury drafts would frequently involve a necessity of bringing
on specie, to answer the exigencies of government ; the avoiding
of which, as much as possible, in the particular situation of this
country, need not be insisted upon.

But, convinced as the Secretary is of the usefulness of the
regulation, yet, considering the nature of the clause upon which
these remarks arise, he thought it his duty to bring the subject
under the eye of the House. The measure is understood by all
concerned to be temporary.

Indeed, whenever a National Bank shall be instituted, some
new disposition of the thing will be a matter of course.

Sections 31 and 32. The provision, in these sections, respect-
ing drawbacks, seems to require revision in several particulars.

The benefit of it is intended for any person by whom the
goods may be exported, whether that person be the importer of

jEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 11

them or another ; and yet the oath, to be taken by the exporter,
is of such a nature, as must be very difficult to any but the im-
porter. It declares, that the goods are, in quantity, quality, and
value, according to the inward entry of them, which was duly
made at the time of importation — a fact, which, it is evident,
can rarely be known to any but the person who made that entry.
This must, therefore, occasion either difficulty in obtaining the
drawback, or a kind of constructive swearing, inconsistent with
that scrupulous strictness which ought ever to accompany an
oath, and on which the security they are intended to afford,
must depend. To obviate both, it seems necessary to direct, that
proof of the fact shall be made, to the satisfaction of the collector,
by the oaths or affirmations of all the parties, through whose
hands the goods may have passed ; in which case, each can be
examined as far as his knowledge can be presumed to extend.

There is no rule prescribed for regulating the sum in which
bonds shall be taken ; whence there is, perhaps, too much left to
the discretion of the officers. And the cancelling of the bond is
made to depend, among other things, upon the oath or affirma-
tion of the master and mate of the vessel, in which the goods are
exported, attesting their delivery : a requisite which it may not
always be possible to fulfil. The master or mate may die, or
may quit the vessel from different causes, without complying
with it. These circumstances seem to require some other modi-
fications. The Secretary has had an eye to them, in the draught
of the bill accompanying his report of the ninth of January last ;
to which he begs leave respectfully to refer.

Section 40. This section provides, that no goods, wares, or
merchandise, of foreign growth or manufacture, subject to the
payment of duties, shall be brought into the United States,
otherwise than by sea, and in ships or vessels of not less than
thirty tons' burthen ; with an exception as to the district of
Louisville, and another, as to vessels, at the time of the passing
of the act, on their voyage.

It is a matter which merits particular consideration, whe-
ther there ought not, also, to be an exception in regard to the

72 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

most Easterly district of the State of Massachusetts. The situa-
tion of that district is, in different views, peculiar, so as, perhaps,
to render it advisable rather to endeavor to regulate, than to
prevent the introduction of foreign articles in smaller vessels.
The information received on this point will, also, with the
leave of the House, be reserved for the committee before re-
ferred to.

Fourthly. As to the u act for registering and clearing vessels,
regulating the coasting trade, and for other purposes."

Many of the provisions of this act are objected to, particularly
those parts which relate to the coasting trade and fisheries ; and
yet, it must be confessed, that the proper remedies or alterations
are neither obvious nor easy. The more the matter is examined,
the more difficult it appears to reconcile the convenience of
those branches of trade with due precautions for the security of
the revenue.

Section 2. The idea of this section is, that every vessel shall
be registered by the collector of the district to which she belongs.
This regulation is a proper one, as a knowledge of the persons
on whose oaths or affirmations the registries are to be founded by
the officer making them, is a security against imposition. But
this provision seems to be contravened by that of the seventh
section, as will be noted hereafter.

Section 3. This section directs the mode of ascertaining the
tonnage of all ships or vessels.

It is, however, a question, whether it means only those which
are to be registered, in order to their registry, or extends to
others, in order to computing the tonnage duty. The latter
construction has been preferred, for the sake of equality and uni-
formity.

The mode of admeasurement prescribed, has been complained
of, as unfavorable to certain kinds of vessels, and as tending to
enlarge the tonnage beyond the standard of other countries.

Mt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 73

Section 6. Objections are made to the form of the oath pre-
scribed by this section. The party is to swear, positively, to the
place where the vessel was built (which, in a great number of
cases, cannot, with propriety, be done), and, also, to the citizen-
ship, not only of himself, but of the other owners, and of the
master (which, in many cases, must be equally difficult).

Inconveniences are experienced from the want of a rule for
determining who are citizens. The consequence of it is, that
every man is left to his own opinion of what constitutes one, and
it is represented that there are instances in which persons of
reputation, supposing that residence only conferred the character,
have been ready to take the oath prescribed.

A designation of the several descriptions of persons entitled
to the privileges of citizens undec this act, requiring that the
particular one, under which each falls, should be inserted in his
oath, would be the most effectual guard against error or imposi-
tion. If this should be thought to be attended with too many
difficulties, from our peculiar situation, it may, at least, be proper
to annex some adequate pecuniary penalty to the obtaining of
registers by persons not citizens, and, to oblige all who apply,
to specify,- in their oaths, by what title they are citizens, that is,
whether by nativity, naturalization or otherwise, which, by
bringing into view the situation of each person, would serve as
a useful check.

In these observations, it is taken for granted, that, as the
law now stands, the oath of the party is the sole guide to the
officers of the customs ; that they have not any discretion in the
case, and, that a power in them to judge of the qualifications of
individuals, in so important a respect, could not, with propriety,
be established.

Section 7. The second section, as already remarked, directs,
that vessels be registered in the districts to which they belong.
This admits their registry wherever they may be, provided the
oath required be taken before the collectors of the district to
which they belong. It is conceived that an adherence to the
principle of the second section, throughout, would conduce to
c 6

74 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

security. And it is, therefore, submitted, whether, instead of
the provision in this section, it would not be advisable
to provide that, when a vessel, being in a district other than
that to which she belongs, has occasion to be registered, she
shall be surveyed under the direction of the proper officer of the
port where she may happen to be, and registered by the collector
of the district to which she may belong, upon a certificate of the
officer bv whom such survey shall have been made.

tion 11. The declaring the instrument of transfer void, un-
less the register be recited in it, involves an embarrassing qu- -
tion, as to the property of the and does not seem neces-

sary to the object in view. The subsequent part of the section,
which annuls the privileges of an American bottom, without such
recital, answering, alone, the purpose of the provision.

- tion 12. If. in the oath on which the registry is founded,
it be necessary to declare that the master is a citizen, it would
seem equally necessary that, on a change of master, there should
be a like attestation of his citizenship, previous to the endorse-
ment herein directed to be made, as otherwise, a citizen may be
the master one day. a foreigner the next.

Section 13. There would be less room for imposition, if, in-
stead of allowing the collector of the port, where the vessel
might be, to grant a new register, he were authorized merely to
take the oath prescribed, in order to its transmission to the col-
lector of the district where she might belong, making it the duty
of the latter to issue the new register.

Section 22. This section commences the regulations respect-
ing vessels employed in the coasting trade and fisheries. The
proviso of it exempts all licensed vessels, under twenty tons,
from clearing and entering, and, in its consequences, remov
them, almost wholly, from the inspection of the officers of the
customs. The tendency of this to facilitate smuggling, is obvi-
ous, as these vessels are precisely of that kind which would be

tEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 75

most naturally employed in clandestinely unlading, on the coast,
those which arrive from abroad. The bond required, in order
to a license, is a very slender restraint, not only from the small-
ness of the penalty, but from the little danger of discovery.
And the oath is still less effectual, because the master who is to
take it, may, at any time be changed, before the application for
anew license. This oath, too, is exceptionable on other accounts.
The anticipation of a future and distant oath may be too apt to
give way to the allurements of immediate interest; and if a
breach of the law have been committed, when it is to be taken,
it is hardly to be expected that there will be a strict adherence
to truth, at the price of incurring both disgrace and loss.

It would, perhaps, be more effectual, and less exceptionable,
if, instead of this oath, one should be required, previous to the
granting of any license to a fishing or coasting vessel, from the
owner or owners of such vessel, that she shall not, during the
time for which it is to be granted, be employed, with his or their
permission, consent, sufferance, privity, or connivance, in any
way, whereby the payment of the duties imposed by law, on
articles imported into the United States, may be evaded.

But it seems indispensable towards guarding against the
frauds which may be committed by coasters, that they should be
obliged, at every port or place where there is an officer of the
customs, to report themselves and their lading, on their arrival,
and previous to their departure. For this purpose, the office
hours ought to be so regulated and extended, as to afford the
greatest possible accommodation, and avoid occasions of delay.
With this precaution, and taking care that the fees are moder-
ate, it is presumable that coasters may be subjected to a pretty
exact inspection, without injuriously impeding their business.

While they ought, in the opinion of the Secretary, to be thus
subjected to a strict supervision at places where there are officers,
it appears to him proper that they should be exempted from the
obligation either of entering or clearing, when at places where
there are none. The necessity of journeys to distant offices, fre-
quently across rivers and bays, and at the expense of the loss
of favorable winds, occasions, in some parts of the Union, serious
obstructions to the coasting trade. As connected with the idea,

76 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [£h\ 33.

it would tend to the security of the revenue if a discretion were
allowed to appoint inspectors at places which are not ports of
general entry or delivery, for the purpose of entering, clearing,
and overseeing coasters.

Section 23. In the remarks on the act imposing duties on
tonnage, the construction which has obtained upon the last
clause of this section has been stated, together with the hard-
ships which have ensued to individuals from misapprehension
of it.

A different modification of the provision has, also, been sug-
gested. Among other reasons to be assigned for it is this : that,
by obliging all registered vessels to take out licenses, it unneces-
sarily increases the number of vessels entitled to the privileges
of coasters. In the opinion of the Secretary, these ought to be
confined to such as are ordinarily employed in the coasting and
fishing trade ; to effect which, it may be proper that, previous to
the granting of any license, an oath or affirmation should be
made, that the vessel for which it is required is, bona fide, intend-
ed to be employed as a coasting or fishing vessel, during the
period for which it is to be granted, or the greater part of it,
and even to annex a penalty to the taking out a license for any
vessel which shall not be so employed. This, in respect to fish-
ing vessels, seems peculiarly necessary, as it is easy to see that,
on the pretext of that employment, licenses may be perverted
from their real purpose, to that of a mere cover for illicit prac-
tices.

There is no provision for the case of a change of property
within the year, for which a license may be granted, which,
sometimes, occasions sureties to be bound for parties they did
not contemplate. This, and the repetition of tonnage duty,
which is a consequence of it, is regarded as an inconvenience,
requiring to be remedied, by a provision for the granting new
licenses, when such changes happen, upon new security for the
remainder of the year.

Sections 27 and 28. As there are no particular penalties annex-
ed to a non-compliance with the requisites of these sections, it

jEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 11

has, of course, been found, in some instances, difficult to enforce
their execution. And, though it is presumed that such non-
compliance would be a good probable cause of seizure, yet if, in
the event of a trial, it turned out, in one case, that there were
no foreign goods, nor ardent spirits, exceeding four hundred
gallons, on board ; and in the other, that a manifest and permit
had been obtained, and that no goods were on board but such as
they had specified, no penalty could be inflicted. And a vexa-
tious litigation between the officer and the party might be the
only fruit of the seizure.

It is inferred from the last of these sections, that a coaster
whose ultimate destination is for a place where a collector or
surveyor resides, having on board goods for any intermediate
place, is not at liberty to land those goods at such intermediate
place, till after a permit for landing shall have been obtained at
the place of destination ; which is complained of as a grievance,
and certainly is attended, in many cases, with considerable incon-
venience. A relaxation, in this respect, may be advisable. And
to guard, as much as possible, against any ill effects from it, it
may be expedient that, whenever a coaster arrives at a port
where a collector or surveyor resides, it should be incumbent
upon the master of her to make a report in writing, and upon
oath, stating the goods on board at the time of her departure
from the last port left by her, at which a collector or surveyor
resided, and which may have been afterwards taken in, or de-
livered, prior to her arrival at the place of report. In this case,
to avoid a too great multiplication of oaths, the oaths required by
the 25th and 26th sections may be dispensed with ; though it
will be still useful, that the manifests should be exhibited and
certified.

Section 31. The Secretary, considering it as an essential rule,
that emoluments of office should not be extended by construction
or inference, beyond the letter of the provision, lest a door should
be opened to improper exactions, has instructed the officers of
the customs to govern themselves by a literal interpretation of
the several clauses of this section ; the consequence of which,
however, is, that equal services are unequally recompensed.

78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 33.

This chiefly arises from that clause, which allows a fee of
sixty cents —

" For every entry of inroad cargo, directed to be made in con-
formity with this act, and for receiving of, and qualifying to,
every manifest of vessels, licensed to trade as aforesaid."

The entry, and the receiving and qualifying to a manifest,
being joined together by the word and, are understood as one
service, to which a fee of sixty cents is attached ; so that, when
only either of the two things is performed, and not the other, no
fee is taken.

Hence there is no allowance for swearing the master to his
manifest, and granting a certificate of its having been done, ac-
cording to the twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth sections of this act,
because it is not accompanied, in either case, with an inward
entry. Twenty cents for the permit to proceed to the place of
destination is the only fee understood to be demanclablc for the
services specified in these sections.

The sixty cents are deemed applicable only to the services
enjoined by the twenty-seventh section.

A revision of this section will, upon accurate examination,
be found eligible for other reasons, which, for the sake of brevity,
are omitted.

The foregoing are the principal remarks which occur on the
provisions of the several acts, on which the Secretary has been
directed to report. These acts have fulfilled their objects in all
respects, as well as could reasonably have been expected from
the first essay on so difficult a subject. It was foreseen that ex-
perience would suggest the propriety of corrections in the sys-
tem, and it is equally to be inferred, that farther experiment will
manifest the expediency of further correction. The work must
be progressive, since it can only be by successive improvements
that it can be brought to the degree of perfection of which it is
susceptible.

As connected with the difficulties that have occurred in the
execution of the laws, which is the subject of this report, the
Secretary begs leave, in the last place, to mention the want of an
officer, in each State, or other considerable subdivision of the

JEt. 33.] DUTIES ON IMPORTS. 79

United States, having the general superintendence of all the offi-
cers of the revenue within such State or subdivision.

Among the inconveniences attending it, is a great difficulty
in drawing, from the more remote ports, the moneys which are
there collected. As the course of business creates little or no
demand at the seat of Government, or in its vicinity, for drafts
upon such places, negotiations, in this way, are either very dila-
tory, or impracticable ; neither does the circulation of bank pa-
per, from the same cause, extend to them. This embarrassment
would be remedied by having one person in each State, or in a
district of the United States, of convenient extent, charged with
the receipt of all the moneys arising within it, and placed, in
point of residence, where there was the greatest intercourse with
the seat of Government. This would greatly facilitate negotia-
tions between the treasury and distant parts of the Union, and
would contribute to lessening the necessity for the transportation
of specie.

But there are other reasons, of perhaps still greater weight,
for the measure. It is, in the opinion of the Secretary, essential
to a due supervision of the conduct of the particular officers en-
gaged in the collection of the revenues, and to the purposes of
exact and impartial information, as to the operation of the laws
which relate to them. It is impossible, that the first end can be
answered by any attention or vigilance of an individual, or indi-
viduals, at the head of the treasury. Distance, and the multi-
plicity of avocations, are conclusive bars. And, however it may
appear at first sight, that the second end may be attainable from
the communications of those particular officers, yet, when it is
considered how apt their representations will be to receive a tint
from the personal interests of the individuals, and the local inter-
ests of districts, it must be perceived that there cannot always be
sufficient reliance upon them, and that variances between them
will not unfrequently serve rather to distract, than to inform the
judgment. Greater impartiality, and, of course, better informa-
tion, may be expected from an officer, who, standing in the same
relation to a larger district, composed of several smaller dis-
tricts, will be more likely to be free from the influence, either

80 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 33.

of personal interests, or local predilections, in reference to the
parts.

The Secretary begs leave, with the utmost deference, to say,
that he considers an arrangement of this kind as of real impor-
tance to the public service, and to the efficacious discharge of the
trust reposed in him.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

TONNAGE DUTIES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives. May 11, 1790.

Treasury Department, May 11, 1790.
The Secretary of the Treasury respectfully submits an ab-
stract of the duties which have accrued on the tonnage of ships
or vessels, from the first day of September, to the 31st day of
December last, pursuant to the order of the House of Represent-
atives of the fifth instant.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
— [Stak ^apers. Finance, vol. i. p. 52.]

MONEY RECEIVED FROM, OR PAID TO, THE STATES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, May 11, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the order of
the House of Representatives of the 23d of April, respectfully
submits the several statements, in the schedules herewith trans-
mitted, marked A and B, and Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.

Upon these statements, the Register of the Treasury, in Lis
report to the said Secretary, makes the following remarks :

The debits and credits, in continental money, advanced from,

JEt. 33.] STATE DEBITS AND CREDITS. 81

or received out of, the treasury of the United States, as stated in
the within schedule, may be relied on as the true nominal
amount, stated on record in the treasury books ; but the reduc-
tion to specie value, is subject to the examination of the general
board of commissioners.

The credits for specie, and also of indents paid into the trea-
sury of the United States, on account of the existing requisitions
of Congress, are accurate, and, it is presumed, conclusive. But,
with respect to the extension, in specie, of the several payments
into the treasury, in the emission of continental bills of credit,
called old emissions, and the emissions of the 18th March, 1780,
although the nominal sums specified in the subordinate state-
ments, are as accurate as the treasury records will admit, yet, as
there is no legislative guide on a question of so great importance,
the treasury officers have felt themselves exceedingly embar-
rassed. On the one hand, they could not presume to affix a scale
not warranted by any act of the Legislature, and on the other, the
order of the House required a compliance as far as possible.
They have, therefore, on this occasion, governed themselves by
the only existing regulation of the late Congress. According to
the table herewith presented, by a reduction of specie, all sums,
either paid or received from the States, from the commencement
of the Revolution, to 18th March, 1780, and from that period to
the present date, all sums in continental money, are red *ced to
specie, at forty for one.

The new emissions are estimated equal to specie.

When State paper has been received by the United States
from any particular State, the State making the payment has re-
ceived a credit, at which, it has been accounted for, by those who
have received it.

The Secretary begs leave to observe, from principles which
have governed the said statements, they cannot be considered as
exhibiting the actual specie value of the moneys received from
the respective States.

But an impression, that it might not be advisable, on his part,
to enter into considerations which are relative to the duty of the
commissioners for settling accounts between the United States

HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Jfir. 33.

and the individual States, has led him to seek, in the acts of Con-
gress and the records of the treasury, for the results by which
the liquidation of the paper money should be conducted, rather
than to indulge a latitude of opinion as to what might be the
abstract right.

All which is respectfully submitted.

Schedule A. Genera] abstract of the sums of money, including indents and
paper money of every kind reduced to specie value, which have been received by,
or paid to, the Bevers 3 Congress from the commencement of the Revo-

lution to the present period : made in pursuance of the order of the House of Ri-p-
resentatives, of the 23d of April, 1790.

B. Sch. •(luk' of the accounts of the United States with individual States.

No. 1. Schedule of the Requisitions on the sevei i by the United States

in Congress assembled

So. 2 Schedule of the sums La the money ol the emission of the 18th March.
1780 which have been appropriated by the United 9

\ o Statement of the sums in the old Continental emission paid by certain
enumerated States into the Treasury of the United States on account of their sei
oral c |ui 't.i- of the requisitions I ingress of the 18th March. 1780.

\ . i Abstract of Warrants entered in the treasury books to the credit of
individual States &c— fi P P ance, pp. 53-62

WEST POINT.

Communicat.-.l to the House of Representative June 10th, 1790.

Treasury Department, June 3, IT"1
The said Secretary respectfully reports —

That it is the opinion of the Secretary for the Department of
War, that it is expedient and necessary that the United States
should retain and occupy West Point, as a permanent Military
Post; the principal reasons for which, as stated by him in a re-
port to Congress, of the 31st of July, 1786, are as follows :

That in case of an invasion of any of the Middle or Eastern
States by a Marine Power, the possession of Hudsou River would
be an object of the highest importance as well to the invader as
to the Unite 1 States.

That the reciprocal communication of the resources of the

JEr. 33.] WEST POINT. 83

Eastern and Middle States, so essential to a well-combined resist-
ance, depends entirely on the possession of the said river by the
United States.

That West Point is of the most decisive importance to the
defence of the said river for the following reasons :

1st. The distance across the river is only about fourteen hun-
dred feet, a less distance by far than any other part.

2d. The peculiar bend or turn of the river forming almost a
re-entering angle.

3d. The high banks on both sides of the river favorable for
the construction of formidable batteries.

4th. The demonstrated practicability of fixing across the river
a chain or chains at a spot where vessels, in turning the point,
invariably lose their rapidity, and, of course, their force, by
which a chain at another part of the river would be liable to be
broken.

These circumstances combined, render the passage of hostile
vessels by West Point impracticable.

That the fortifications of West Point and its dependencies are
extremely difficult to be invested and besieged.

This circumstance, which greatly enhances the value of the
place, arises from the broken and mountainous grounds and nar-
row passes which surround the fortifications.

A regular siege of West Point, properly garrisoned and fur-
nished, would require a large army, vast warlike preparation,
and much time. The States, therefore, in its vicinity, would
have sufficient time to draw forth their utmost force for its
relief.

That however West Point may be regarded by some persons
as an interior place, yet the reverse is a fact, and may be proved
by a slight consideration of the facility with which it can be ap-
proached by water. It is quite practicable for vessels coming in
from sea, and arriving at Sandy Hook at the close of day, to
reach West Point before the next morning. The navigation of
the river is known to be so bold that the passage could be easily
performed during the night.

That the said Secretary of the Treasury, impressed with a

84 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 33.

persuasion that the said opinion is well founded, conceives it to
be just and proper that a purchase should be made, on account
of the United States, of so much of the tract of land called West
Point, as shall be necessary for the purpose contemplated ; and
this, for the following reasons :

First. That where the public safety requires the permanent
occupancy of the property of an individual for the public use,
it is just that compensation should be made for its entire value,
either by purchase with consent of parties, or by some equitable
mode < >f appraisement. Temporary or periodical compensations,
unless with the concurrence of the proprietor, are liable to this
objection — that they oblige the individual to content himself with
less than the full use or value of his property, by sale or other-
wise, as his interest or necessities may require.

Secondly. These temporary coin] ■ensations, for various obvi-
ous reasons, will be likely, in the end, to prove more expensive
to the public than an absolute purchase in the first instance :

Wherefore the said Secretary is of opinion, that it will be ad-
visable that provision should be made by law for the purchase
of so much of the said tract of land called "West Point, as shall
be judged requisite for the purpose of such fortifications and gar-
risons as may be necessary for the defence of the same.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

PUBLIC LANDS.

REPORT OF A UNIFORM SYSTEM FOR THE DISPOSITION OF THE
LANDS, THE PROPERTY OF THE UNITED STATES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, July 22, 1790.

That on the formation of a plan for the disposition of the va-
cant lands of the United States, there appears to be two leading
objects of consideration ; one, the facility of advantageous sales

jEt.33.] public lands. 85

according to the probable course of purchases ; the other, the
accommodation of individuals now inhabiting the western coun-
try, or who may hereafter emigrate thither.

The former, as an operation of Finance, claims primary atten-
tion ; the latter is important, as it relates to the satisfaction of the
inhabitants of the western country. It is desirable, and does not
appear impracticable, to conciliate both.

Purchasers may be contemplated in three classes ; moneyed
individuals and companies, who will buy to sell again ; associa-
tions of persons who intend to make settlements themselves ;
single persons or families now resident in the western country,
or who may emigrate thither hereafter. The two first will be
frequently blended, and will always want considerable tracts.
The last will generally purchase small quantities. Hence a plan
for the sale of the western lands, while it may have due regard
to the last, should be calculated to obtain all the advantages
which may be derived from the two first classes. For this reason
it seems requisite that the general land-office should be estab-
lished at the seat of government. 'Tis there that the principal
purchasers, whether citizens or foreigners, can most easily find
proper agents, and that contracts for large purchasers can be best
adjusted.

But the accommodation of the present inhabitants of the
western territory, and of unassociated persons and families who
may emigrate thither, seems to require, that one office subordi-
nate to that at the seat of Congress, should be opened in the
North Western, and another in the South Western government.

Each of these offices, as well the general one as the subordi-
nate ones, it is conceived, may be placed with convenience under
the superintendence of three commissioners, who may either be
pre-established officers of government, to whom the duty may be
assigned by law, or persons specially appointed for the purpose.
The former is recommended by considerations of economy, and
it is probable would embrace every advantage which could be
derived from a special appointment.

To obviate those inconveniences, and to facilitate and insure
the attainment of those advantages, which may arise from new

86 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[JEt. 33.

and casual circumstances, springing up from foreign and domestic
causes, appear to be an object for which adequate provision
should be made in any plan that may be adopted. For this
reason, and from the intrinsic difficulty of regulating the details
of a specific provision for the various objects which require to be
consulted, so as neither to do too much nor too little for either,
it is respectfully submitted, whether it would not be advisable to
vest a considerable latitude of discretion in the commissioners of
the general land-office, subject to some such regulations and limi-
tations as follows, viz. :

That no land shall be sold, except such in respect to which
the titles of the Indian tribes shall have been previously extin-
guished.

That a sufficient tract or tracts shall be reserved and set
apart fur satisfying the subscribers to the proposed loan in the
public debt ; but that no location shall be for less than five hun-
dred acn

That convenient tracts shall from time to time be set apart
for the purpose of locations by actual settlers, in quantities not
exceeding to one person one hundred acres.

That other tracts shall, from time to time, be set apart for
sales in townships of ten miles square, except where they shall
adjoin upon a boundary of some prior grant, or of a tract so set
apart, in which cases there shall be no greater departure from
such form of location than may be absolutely necessary.

That any quantities may nevertheless be sold by special con-
tract, comprehended either within natural boundaries or lines, or
both.

That the price shall be thirty cents per acre, to be paid either
in gold or silver, or in public securities, computing those which
shall bear an immediate interest of six per cent, as at par with
gold and silver; and those which shall bear a future or less
interest, if any there shall be, at a proportional value.

The certificates issued for land upon the proposed loan, shall
operate as warrants within the tract or tracts which shall be
specially set apart for satisfying the subscribers thereto, and
shall also be receivable in all payments whatsoever for land, by
way of discount, acre for acre.

jEt. 33.] PUBLIC LANDS. 87

That no credit shall be given for any quantity less than a
township of ten miles square, nor more than two years credit for
any greater quantity.

That in every instance of credit, at least one quarter part of
the consideration shall be paid down, and security, other than the
land itself, shall be required for the residue. And that no title
shall be given for any tract, or part of a purchase, beyond the
quantity for which the consideration shall be actually paid.

That the residue of the tract or tracts, set apart for the
subscribers to the proposed loan, which shall not have been loca-
ted within two years after the same shall have been set apart,
may then be sold on the same terms as any other land.

That the commissioners of each subordinate office shall have
the management of all sales, and the issuing of warrants for all
locations, in the tracts to be set apart for the accommodation of
individual settlers, subject to the superintendency of the commis-
sioners of the general land-office, who may also commit to them
the management of any other sales or locations which it may be
found expedient to place under their direction.

That there shall be a surveyor-general, who shall have power
to appoint a deputy surveyor-general in each of the Avestern
governments, and a competent number of deputy surveyors to
execute in person all warrants to them directed by the surveyor-
general, or deputy surveyor-generals, within certain districts to
be assigned to them respectively. That the surveyor-general
shall also have in charge all the duties committed to the geogra-
pher-general by the several resolutions and ordinances of Con-
gress.

That all warrants issued at the general land-office shall be
signed by the commissioners, or such one of them as they may
nominate for that purpose, and shall be directed to the surveyor-
general. That all warrants issued at a subordinate office, shall
be signed by the commissioners of such office, or by such one of
them as they may nominate for that purpose, and shall be
directed to the deputy surve}Tor-general within the government.
That the priority of locations upon warrants shall be determined
by the times of the applications to the deputy-surveyors ; and, in

88 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

case of two applications for the same land at one time, the priority-
may be determined by lot.

That the treasurer of the United States shall be the receiver
of all payments for sales at the general land-office, and may
also receive deposits of money, or securities for purchases in-
tended to be made at the subordinate offices, his receipts, or
certificates for which, shall be received in payment at those
offices.

That the secretary of each of the western governments shall
be the receiver of all payments arising from sales at the office of
such government.

That controversies concerning rights to patents, or grants of
land, shall be determined by the commissioners of that office
under whose immediate direction, or jurisdiction, the locations in
respect to which they may arise shall have been made.

That the completion of all contracts, and sales heretofore
made, shall be under the direction of the commissioners of the
general land-office.

That the commissioners of the general land-office, surveyor-
general, deputy surveyors-general, and the commissioners of the
hmd-office in each of the western governments, shall not pur-
chase, nor shall others purchase for them, in trust, any public
lands.

That the secretaries of the western governments shall give
security for the faithful execution of their duties as receivers of
the land-office.

That all patents shall be signed by the President of the Uni-
ted States, or by the Vice-President, or other officer of Govern-
ment acting as President, and shall be recorded in the office
either of the surveyor-general, or of the clerk of the Supreme
Court of the United States.

That all surveys of land shall be at the expense of the pur-
chasers or grantees.

That the fees shall not exceed certain rates, to be specified in
the law, affording equitable compensations for the services of the
surveyors, and establishing reasonable and customary charges
for patents and other office papers, for the benefit of the United
States.

JEt. 33.] ESTIMATES. 89

That the commissioners of the general land-office shall, as
soon as may be, from time to time, cause all the rules and regu-
lations which they may establish to be published, in one gazette
at least, in each State, and in each of the western governments
where there is a gazette, for the information of the citizens of the
United States.

Eegulations like these will define and fix the most essential
particulars which can regard the disposal of the western lands,
and where they leave any thing to discretion, will indicate the
general principles or policy intended by the Legislature to be
observed, for a conformity to which the commissioners will of
course be responsible. They will, at the same time, leave room
for accommodating to circumstances which cannot beforehand be
accurately appreciated, and for varying the course of proceeding
as experience shall suggest to be proper, and will avoid the
danger of those obstructions and embarrassments in the execu-
tion, which would be to be apprehended from an endeavor at
greater precision and more exact detail.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the T)-easury.

ESTIMATES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, August 7, 1700.

Treasury Department, August 5th, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury begs leave respectfully to
submit to the House of Eepresentatives, the estimates contained
in the schedules A and B, herewith transmitted.

That contained in the schedule A, relates chiefly to the cur-
rent service, and to matters for which an immediate provision is
obviously requisite.

That contained in the schedule B, relates partly to certain

c 7

90 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

claims on the United States, of a nature distinguishable from the
mass of the public debt, and, therefore, requiring some special
disposition, and partly to objects which it appeared to the Secre-
tary proper to bring into the view of the House, that it might be
considered whether any reservation of funds was necessary on
their account.

The item respecting the orders of the superintendent of
finance, was the subject of statement, which accompanied a re-
port to the House of the 2-ith of September last, but was not
then provided for. Two petitions preferring claims, for the
satisfaction of which, among others, those orders were issued,
one from Peter Anspach on behalf of Timothy Pickering, late
Quartermaster General, and the other from Abraham Skinner.
late Commissary General of prisoners, have been presented to the
House during the present session, and referred to the said Secre-
tary ; pursuant to which reference, he begs leave to state —

That those orders were issued to satisfy debts, which had
been contracted by tin-- said late Quartermaster General, for sup-
plies furnished, and services preformed in relation to his depart-
ment, subsequent to the 1st of January, 1782, before which time
all transactions in paper money had ceased, and contracts and
dealings had begun to be wholly carried on in specie, and to dis-
charge demands upon the United States on account of supplies,
and accommodations to the officers of the American army, in
captivity during the late war.

The sums due on the former account were understood, when
incurred, to be immediately, or in a short time, payable in specie,
in many instances by special contract, in others, from the course
of the business. The then Quartermaster General alleges, and
the allegation is supported by some evidence, that he and his as-
sistants, relying on being enabled to make due payment, have
rendered themselves, in a number of cases, personally answera-
ble for its being done.

The sums due on the latter account, have been understood
to be payable in like manner with those due on the former.
Assurances to this effect have been repeatedly given, and corres-
pondent expectations have been entertained by those to whom

Mt. 33.] ESTIMATES. 91

the money is due. The said late Commissary of prisoners ap-
pears to have made himself personally liable, in some instances,
and represents, that he has done it in all.

Such having been the nature of both these species of claims,
warrants in the usual course were issued by the Superintendent
of Finance on the Receivers of the States of Rhode Island, New-
York, and Delaware ; which warrants not being satisfied, by rea-
son of the want of means, were afterwards returned into the
treasury by the officers to whom they were granted.

It has happened, that several persons have brought in the
certificates they received from the Quartermaster General and
his deputies, to the commissioner for settling the accounts of
that department, to be cancelled, and have received other certi-
ficates in lieu of them, which now constitute a part of the gen-
eral debt. To what extent this has been done is not ascertained,
nor can be so, without going over an immense mass of cancelled
papers.

It does not appear, that this circumstance has attended the
class of claims relating to prisoners.

If an appropriation should be made, it can only operate for
the benefit of those who have never made a different election,
by accepting in exchange the certificates alluded to. It is a rule
necessary to be maintained in all cases, that, whenever such an-
election has been made, the parties shall be concluded by it.

In respect to those claims which remain as they originally
stood, the Secretary is of opinion that they ought to be dis-
charged in specie. And he is informed, that they have always
been considered in this light at the treasury, though the embar-
rassments of the finances have unavoidably postponed the pay-
ment.

The expenses which have been incurred, in relation to the
treaties contemplated by the acts of Congress of the 22d of Octo-
ber, 1787, and 2d of July, 1788, appear to exceed the sums
which have been actually advanced on account of them. This
excess is not finally ascertained. The expediency of an appro-
priation equal to the sum remaining unpaid of the grant of the
2d of July, to answer such further demands as may be liqui-

92 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

dated and admitted in the course of the treasury, is respectfully
submitted.

An estimate of the probable expense of a treaty with the
Indians of the Wabash and Miami rivers, is inserted, in order
that a provisional reservation of a competent sum may be
made, if it should be judged eligible.

The statement respecting the warrants issued, by the late Board
of Treasury, is intended as explanatory of the disposition of the
sum of one hundred and ninety thousand dollars, appropriated
by the act of the 29th day of September last, towards discharg-
ing those warrants.

In regard to the debt due to foreign officers, the Scretary
begs leave to submit to the House of Eepresentatives the expe-
diency of directing the same to be paid out of the loan of twelve
millions of dollars, which is authorized by the act of the fourth
instant, making provision for the public debt. In addition to
other cogent inducements for paying off this debt, is the cir-
cumstance, that it bears an interest of six per cent, payable in
Europe.

It will occur to the House of Representatives, that all the
revenues which shall exist, at the close of the present session,
are appropriated to the payment of the interest of the public
debt, subject to such priorities and reservations as may result
from appropriations heretofore made, or those which may be
made during the present session. Hence it will be perceived to
be necessary to reserve and appropriate, before the termination
of the session, such proportion of the revenues which have ac-
crued, or may be expected to accrue, in the course of the present
year, as may be sufficient to satisfy, not only the demands on
the treasury already established, but those which are likely to be
established in the progress of the adjustments of depending
claims, resulting from transactions of the former Government.
A reservation and appropriation of fifty thousand dollars, for
this purpose, will probably be found convenient.

The Secretary begs leave further to state, that there is a pro-
bability of a surplus, of about one million of dollars, accruing
from the duties now in operation, to the end of the present year,

jEt. 33.] RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATES. 93

over and above all the sums for which appropriations have been
heretofore made, and are now proposed. And to submit it as
his opinion, that it will be expedient to authorize the applica-
tion of this surplus to purchases of the public debt in the
market.

As long as these purchases can be made at rates below the
true value of the stock, there will be an absolute gain of all the
difference to the Government. And very considerable savings
to the nation will result from raising .the price of Stock by this
operation ; inasmuch as foreigners must pay a higher price for
what they buy.

It may even be worthy of consideration, whether authority
ought not to be given to extend the purchases beyond the limit
of that surplus upon a credit not exceeding a certain specified
and short term, relying for this purpose on the aid of loans.

In the execution of an arrangement of this nature, due re-
gard may be had to the possibility that the collection of the duties
accruing in the ensuing year, may not keep pace with the de-
mand for paying the yearly interest.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

RENEWAL OF FINAL SETTLEMENT CERTIFICATES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, August 7. 1790.

Treasury Department, August 5th, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury having considered the petition of
Jacob Rash, referred to him on the 29th day of June last,
respectfully reports :

That the reasons which induced the late Congress of the
United States to grant a renewal of continental loan-office certi
ficates, destroyed through accident, appear of equal weight in

94 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

regard to other evidences of the public debt which have been
the subjects of similar casualty.

That justice to the petitioner, therefore, seems to require
that an opportunity of renewing his certificates be granted to
him; and, as there are several applications of the same nature,
it is respectfully suggested, that it will be expedient to provide
by law for administering relief to all who shall be found simi-
larly circumstanced, under the following cautionary regulations,
which are, in most particulars, the same as those provided in
the case of loan-office certificates, so far as they will apply to
the different species and circumstances of the certificates.

1st. That the certificates renewed be issued to those who shall
appear to have been the holders of them at the time they were
destroyed, or, if dead, to their legal representativ'

2d. That tin- certificates destroyed be advertised in the ne
papers of the State where the accident happened, and in the
Stat>' where they were issued; which advertisement shall be
continued six weeks, and shall contain the numbers, dates, sums,
names in which the certificates were taken out, and the time
when, the place where, and the means by which, the same wen
destroyed.

3d. That a copy of the advertisement be lodged in the office
of the Commissioner of Loans within the State, in which the cer-
tificates alleged to have been destroyed were issued, together
with such testimony as can be procured, ascertaining the time
when, the place where, and the means by which, the destruction
happened; which copies and testimonies shall be duly certified
by the said commissioner, to be laid, by the party claiming the
renewal, before the Comptroller of the treasury, who shall finally
decide on the sufficiency thereof.

1th. That the party claiming the renewal, enter into bond to
the United States, with two or more sufficient freeholders as
sureties (their sufficiency to be judged of by the said Comptroller)
in double the amount of the value of the certificates claimed to
be renewed, with condition to indemnify the United States
against the holders of the certificates said to be destroyed, should
any such afterwards appear.

jEt. 33.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 95

5th. That no certificates be renewed before trie expiration of
three months after the publication of the advertisement above
mentioned, and that there be an endorsement on each renewed
certificate, signifying that the same was issued in lieu of one de-
stroyed by accident, and describing the original.

In regard to certificates which have not been destroyed by
accident, but which have either been lost or captured, or other-
wise taken away, it appears extremely difficult to devise any
mode of relief to the sufferers which will not subject the United
States to so much hazard of imposition and injury, as to render
the expediency of it questionable. If the House should, never-
theless, be of opinion that justice requires it, it may be granted
under the same regulations which are proposed in respect to
certificates destroyed.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

PUBLIC CREDIT.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, December 13, 1790.

Treasury Department, December 13, 1790.

In obedience to the order of the House of Representatives, of the
ninth day of August last, requiring the Secretary of the
Treasury to prepare and report on this day, such further
provision as may, in his opinion, be necessary for establish-
ing the public credit, the said Secretary respectfully reports :

That the object which appears to be most immediately essen-
tial to the further support of public credit, in pursuance of the
plan adopted during the last session of Congress, is the establish-
ment of proper and sufficient funds for paying the interest which
will begin to accrue, after the year one thousand seven hundred

96 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [£h\ 33.

and ninety -one, on the amount of the debts of the several States,
assumed by the United States, having regard at the same time
to the probable or estimated deficiency in those already estab-
lished, as they respect the original debt of the Union.

In order to this, it is necessary, in the first place, to take a
view of the sums requisite for those purposes.
The amount which has been assumed, of

the State debts, is $21,500,000 00

The sum of annual interest upon that
amount, which, according to the terms
of the proposed loan, will begin to
accrue after the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-one, is - $788,333 33

The estimated deficiency in the funds al-
ready established, as they respect the
original debt of the United States, is - 38,291 40

Making, together $826,624 73

For procuring which sum, the reiterated reflections of the
Secretary have suggested nothing so eligible and unexception-
able, in his judgment, as a further duty on foreign distilled
spirits, and a duty on spirits distilled within the United States,
to be collected in the mode delineated in the plan of a bill,
which forms part of his report to the House of Representatives,
of the ninth day of January last.

Under this impression, he begs leave, with all deference, to
propose to the consideration of the House —

That the following additions be made to the duties on dis-
tilled spirits imported from foreign countries, which are specified
in the act making further provision for the payment of the
debts of the United States, namely :

On those of the first class of proof, therein mentioned, per
gallon, eight cents ;

On those of the second class, per gallon, eight and a half
cents ;

On those of the third class, per gallon, nine cents ;

jEt. 33.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 97

On those of the fourth class, per gallon, ten cents ;

On those of the fifth class, per gallon, ten cents ;

On those of the sixth class, per gallon, fifteen cents.

And that the following duties be laid on spirits distilled
within the United States, namely :

If from molasses, sugar, or other foreign materials, and of the
first class of proof, per gallon, eleven cents ;

Of the said second class of proof, per gallon, twelve cents ;

Of the said third class of proof, per gallon, thirteen cents ;

Of the said fourth class of proof, per gallon, fifteen cents ;

Of the said fifth class of proof, per gallon, twenty cents ;

Of the said sixth class of proof, per gallon, thirty cents.

If from materials of the growth or production of the United
States, distilled within any city, town, or village, and

Of the said first class of proof, per gallon, nine cents ;

Of the said second class of proof, per gallon, ten cents ;

Of the said third class of proof, per gallon, eleven cents ;

Of the said fourth class of proof, per gallon, thirteen cents ;

Of the said fifth class of proof, per gallon, seventeen cents ;

Of the said sixth class of proof, per gallon, twenty-five cents.

And upon each still employed in distilling spirits from the
like materials, in any other place than a city, town, or village, in
lieu of the rates above mentioned, the yearly sum of sixty cents
for every gallon, English wine measure, of the capacity of such
still, including its head : exempting, nevertheless, all such stills,
within a certain defined dimension, as are used essentially for do-
mestic purposes of their respective proprietors.

The product of these several duties (which correspond in
their rates with those proposed in the report above referred to,
of the ninth of January last) may, upon as good grounds as the
nature of the case will admit, prior to an experiment, be com-
puted at eight hundred and seventy-seven thousand and five hun-
dred dollars, the particulars of which computation are contained
in the statement which accompanies this report.

This computed product exceeds the sum which has been
stated as necessary to be provided, by fifty thousand eight hun-
dred and seventy-five dollars and twenty-seven cents ; an excess

98 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

which, if it should be realized by the actual product, may be
beneficially applied towards increasing the sinking fund.

The Secretary has been encouraged to renew the proposition
of these duties, in the same form in which they were before sub-
mitted, from a belief, founded on circumstances which appeared
in the different discussions of the subject, that collateral consid-
erations, which were afterwards obviated, rather than objections
to the measure itself, prevented its adoption, during the last ses-
sion ; from the impracticability, which he conceives to exist, of
devising any substitute equally conducive to the ease and inter-
est of the community ; and from an opinion that the extension
of the plan of collection, which it contemplates, to the duties
already imposed on wines and distilled spirits, is necessary to a
well-grounded reliance on their efficacy and productiveness.

The expediency of improving the resource of distilled spirits,
as an article of revenue, to the greatest practicable extent, has
been noticed upon another occasion. Various considerations
might be added to those then adduced, to evince it, but they are
too obvious to justify the detail. There is scarcely an attitude
in which the object can present itself, which does not invite, by
all the inducements of sound policy and public good, to take a
strong and effectual hold of it.

The manner of doing it, or, in other words, the mode of col-
lection, appears to be the only point about which a difficulty or
question can arise. If that suggested be liable to just objections,
the united information and wisdom of the legislative body insure
the substitution of a more perfect plan.

The Secretary, however, begs leave to remark, that there ap-
pear to him two leading principles, one or the other of which
must necessarily characterize whatever plan may be adopted.
One of them makes the security of the revenue to depend chiefly
on the vigilance of the public officers ; the other rests it essentially
on the integrity of the individuals interested to avoid the pay-
ment of it.

The first is the basis of the plan submitted by the Secretary ;
the last has pervaded most, if not all the systems, which have
hitherto been practised upon, in different parts of the United

JEt. 33.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 99

States. The oaths of the dealers have been almost the only se-
curity for their compliance with the laws.

It cannot be too much lamented, that these have been found
an inadequate dependence. But experience has, on every trial,
manifested them to be such. Taxes or duties, relying for their
collection on that security, wholly, or almost wholly, are uni-
formly unproductive. And they cannot fail to be unequal, as
long as men continue to be discriminated by unequal portions of
rectitude. The most conscientious will pay most ; the least con-
scientious, least.

The impulse of interest, always sufficiently strong, acts with
peculiar force in matters of this kind, in respect to which, a
loose mode of thinking is too apt to prevail. The want of a
habit of appreciating, properly, the nature of the public rights,
renders that impulse, in such cases, too frequently an overmatch
for the sense of obligation, and the evasions which are perceived,
or suspected to be practised by some, prompt others to imitation,
by the powerful motive of self-defence. They infer that they
must follow the example, or be unable to maintain an advanta-
geous competition in the business — an alternative very perplex-
ing to all but men of exact probity, who are thereby rendered,
in a great measure, victims to a principle of legislation which
does not sufficiently accord with the bias of human nature. And
thus the laws become sources of discouragement and loss to hon-
est industry, and of profit and advantage to perjury and fraud.
It is a truth that cannot be kept too constantly in view, that all
revenue laws which are so constructed as to involve a lax and
defective execution, are instruments of oppression to the most
meritorious part of those on whom they immediately operate,
and of additional burthens on the community at large.

The last effect is produced in two ways. The deficiencies in
the funds (which, in the main, afford only partial exemptions)
must be supplied from other taxes, and the charges of collection,
which, in most cases, are nearly the same, whether a tax or duty
yield much or little, occasion an accumulation of the ultimate
expense of furnishing a given sum to the treasury.

Another, and a very serious evil, chargeable on the system

100 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

opposite to that proposed, is, that it leads to frequent and familiar
violations of oaths, which, by loosening one of the strongest
bands of society, and weakening one of the principal securities
to life and property, offends, not less against the maxims of good
government and sound policy, than against those of religion and
morality.

It may not be improper further to remark, that the two great
objections to the class of duties denominated excises, are inap-
plicable to the plan suggested. These objections are, first, the
summary jurisdiction confided to the officers of excise, in deroga-
tion from the course of the common law, and the right of trial
by jury ; and, secondly, the general power vested in the same
officers, of visiting and searching, indiscriminately, the houses,
stores, and other buildings, of the dealers in excised articles.
But, by the plan proposed, the officers to be employed are to be
clothed with no such summary jurisdiction, and their discretionary
power of visiting and searching, is to be restricted to those places
which the dealers themselves shall designate, by public insignia
or marks, as the depositories of the articles on which the duties
are to be laid. Hence, it is one of the recommendations of the
plan, that it is not liable to those objections.

Duties of the kind proposed are not novel in the United
States, as has been intimated in another place. They have ex-
isted, to a considerable extent, under several of the State Go-
vernments, particularly in Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Penn-
sylvania. In Connecticut, a State exemplary for its attachment
to popular principles, not only all ardent spirits, but foreign arti-
cles of consumption, generally, have been the subjects of an <x-
cise or inland duty.

If the supposition, that duties of this kind are attended with
greater expense in the collection, than taxes on lands, should
seem an argument for preferring the latter, it may be observed
that the fact ought not too readily to be taken for granted. The
state of things in England, is sometimes referred to as an exam-
ple on this point, but, there, the smallness of the expense in the
collection of the land tax, is to be ascribed to the peculiar modi-
fication of it, which, proceeding without new assessments, accord-

JEt. 33.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 101

ing to a fixed standard, long since adjusted, totally disregards the
comparative value of lands, and the variations in their value.
The consequence of this is, an inequality so palpable and extreme,
as would be likely to be ill relished by the landholders of the
United States. If, in pursuit of greater equality, accurate peri-
odical valuations or assessments are to afford a rule, it may well
be doubted whether the expense of a land tax will not always
exceed that of the kind of duties proposed. The ingenious, but
fallacious hypothesis, that all taxes on consumption fall, finally,
with accumulated weight, on land, is now too generally and too
satisfactorily exploded to require to be combated here. It has
become an acknowledged truth, that, in the operation of those
taxes, every species of capital and industry contribute their pro-
portion to the revenue, and, consequently, that, as far as they
can be made substitutes for taxes on lands, they serve to exempt
them from an undue share of the public burthen.

Among other substantial reasons which recommend, as a pro-
vision for the public debt, duties upon articles of consumption,
in preference to taxes on houses and lands, is this : It is very
desirable, if practicable, to reserve the latter fund for objects and
occasions which will more immediately interest the sensibility of
the whole community, and more directly affect the public safety.
It will be a consolatory reflection, that so capital a resource re-
mains untouched by that provision, which, while it will have a
very material influence in favor of public credit, will, also, be
conducive to the tranquillity of the public mind, in respect to ex-
ternal danger, and will really operate as a powerful guarantee of
peace. In proportion as the estimation of our resources is ex-
alted in the eyes of foreign nations, their respect for us must
increase, and this must beget a proportionable caution, neither to
insult nor injure us with levity ; while, on the contrary, the
appearance of exhausted resources (which would, perhaps, be a
consequence of mortgaging the revenue to be derived from land,
for the interest of the public debt) might tend to invite both in-
sult and injury, by inspiring an opinion that our efforts to resent
or repel them were little to be dreaded.

It may not be unworthy of reflection, that, while the idea of

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

residuary resources, in so striking a particular, cannot fail to
have many beneficial consequences, the suspension of taxes on
real estate can as little fail to be pleasing to the mass of the com-
munity ; and it may reasonably be presumed, that so provident
a forbearance on the part of the Government, will insure a more
cheerful acquiescence on that of the class of the community im-
mediately to be affected, whenever experience and the exigency
of conjunctures shall dictate a resort to that species of revenue.
But, in order to be at liberty to pursue this salutary course,
it is indispensable that an efficacious use should be made of those
articles of consumption which are the most proper and most
productive, to which class distilled spirits very evidently belong ;
and a prudent energy will be requisite, as well in relation to the
mode of collection, as to the quantum of the duty.

It need scarcely be observed, that the duties on the great
mass of imported articles have reached a point which it would
not be expedient to exceed. There is at least satisfactory evi-
dence that they cannot be extended further, without contraven-
ing the sense of the body of the merchants ; and, though it is not
to be admitted as a general rule, that this circumstance ought to
conclude against the expediency of a public measure, yet, when
due regard is had to the disposition which that enlightened class
of our citizens has manifested towards the National Government ;
to the alacrity with which they have hitherto seconded its ope-
rations ; to the accommodating temper with which they look for-
ward to those additional impositions on the objects of trade,
which are to commence with the ensuing year ; and to the great-
ness of the innovation, which, in this particular, has already
taken place in the former state of things ; there will be perceived
to exist the most solid reasons against lightly passing the bounds
which coincide with their impressions of what is reasonable and
proper. It would be, in every view, inauspicious to give occa-
sion for a supposition that trade alone is destined to feel the
immediate weight of the hands of Government, in every new
emergency of the treasury.

However true, as a general position, that the consumer pays
the duty, yet, it will not follow, that trade may not be essen-

jEt.33.] public credit. 103

tially distressed and injured, by carrying duties on importations
to a height which is disproportionate to the mercantile capital of
a country. It may not only be the cause of diverting too large a
share of it from the exigencies of business, but, as the requisite
advances to satisfy the duties, will, in many, if not in most cases,
precede the receipts from the sale of the articles on which they
are laid, the consequence will often be sacrifices which the mer-
chant cannot afford to make.

The inconveniences of exceeding the proper limit, in this re-
spect, which will be felt every where, will fall with particular
severity on those places which have not the advantage of public
banks, and which abound least in pecuniary resources. Appear-
ances do not justify such an estimate of the extent of the mer-
cantile capital of the United States as to encourage to material
accumulations on the already considerable rates of the duties on
the mass of foreign importation.

Another motive for caution on this point arises from the re-
flection that the effect of an important augmentation, made by a
law of the last session, is, hitherto, a mere matter of speculative
calculation, and has not yet even begun to be tried.

It is presumable, too, that a still further augmentation would
have an influence the reverse of favorable to the public credit.
The operation would be apt to be regarded as artificial, as desti-
tute of solidity, as presenting a numerical increase, but involving
an actual diminution of revenue. The distrust of the efficacy of
the present provision might also be accompanied with a doubt of
a better substitute hereafter. The inference would not be un-
natural, that a defect of other means, or an inability to command
them, could alone have given birth to so unpromising an effort
to draw all from one source.

A diversification of the nature of the funds is desirable on
other accounts. It is clear that less dependence can be pl.-iced
on one species of funds, and that, too, liable to the vicissitude
of the continuance or interruption of foreign intercom^', than
from a variety of different funds, formed by the union of internal
with external objects.

The inference from these various and important considerations

104 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

seems to be, that the attempt to extract wholly, from duties on
imported articles, the sum necessary to a complete provision for
the public debt, would probably be both deceptive and perni-
cious— incompatible with the interests not less of revenue than of
commerce ; that resources of a different kind must, of necessity,
be explored ; and that the selection of the most fit objects is the
only thing which ought to occupy inquiry.

Besides the establishment of supplementary funds, it is requi-
site to the support of the public credit that those established
should stand on a footing which will give all reasonable assur-
ance of their effectual collection.

Among the articles enumerated in the act making further pro-
vision for the payment of the debt of the United States, there are two,
wines and teas, in regard to which, some other regulations than
have yet been adopted, seem necessary for the security of the
revenue, and desirable for the accommodation of the merchant.

With these views it is submitted, that the term for the payment
of the duties on wines be enlarged, as it respects Madeira wines,
to eighteen months; and as it respects other wines, to nine
months ; and that they be collected on a plan similar to that pro-
posed in relation to imported distilled spirits.

And that a third option (two being allowed by the present
law) be given to the importers of teas, which shall be, to give
bond, without security, for the amount of the duty in each case,
payable in two years, upon the following terms :

The teas to be deposited, at the expense and risk of the im-
porter, in storehouses, to be agreed upon between him and the
proper officer of the revenue ; each storehouse having two locks,
the key of one of which to be in the custody of the importer, or
his agent ; and the key of the other of which, to be in the cus-
tody of an officer whose duty it shall be made to attend, at all
reasonable times, for the purpose of deliveries.

These deliveries, whether for home sale, or for exportation to
a foreign country, to be warranted by permits, from the chief
officer of inspection of the place.

If for home sale, the permits to be granted after the duties
shall have been paid, or secured to be paid.

Mt. 33.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 105

When the amount of the duties shall not exceed one hundred
dollars, four months to be allowed for payment. When it shall
exceed one hundred dollars, and not exceed five hundred dollars,
the term of payment to be eight months ; and twelve months,
whenever the amount shall exceed five hundred dollars : Provi-
ded, that the credit shall in no case extend beyond the period of
two years, originally allowed for the entire sum. If the duties
on the whole quantity deposited shall not have been paid, or se-
cured to be paid, before the expiration of that time, it shall be
lawful for the proper officer to cause a sale to be made of so much
as shall be sufficient to discharge what shall remain unsatisfied.
In every case, it shall be at the option of the party applying for
the permit, either to pay the amount of duties on the quantity
to be delivered, or to give bond for it, with one or more sureties,
to the satisfaction of the officer whose province it shall be to
grant the permits.

If the deliveries are to be made for exportation, the permits
to be granted upon bond being entered into, to secure and ascer-
tain the exportation. This may require some alterations of form,
in the manner of proceeding, relatively to the exportation of this
article.

All teas to be landed under the care of the inspectors of the
revenue ; the chests, and other packages containing them, to be
marked ; and certificates, which shall accompany them, be grant-
ed, as in the case of distilled spirits.

To these more direct expedients for the support of public
credit, the institution of a national bank presents itself, as a
necessary auxiliary. This the Secretary regards as an indispen-
sable engine in the administration of the finances. To present
this important object in a more distinct and more comprehensive
light, he has concluded to make it the subject of a separate
report.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

c 8

106 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

Estimate of the probable product of the funds proposed in the

annexed report.

4,000,000 gallons of distilled spirits, imported

from foreign countries, at 8 cents per gallon, $320,000 00

3,500,000 gallons of spirits, distilled in the Uni-
ted States, from foreign materials, at 11 cents
per gallon, 385,000 00

3,000,000 gallons of spirits, distilled from mate-
rials of the United States, at 9 cents per
gallon, 270,000 00

Total dollars, $975,000 00

Deduct for drawbacks, and expense of

collecting, 10 per cent. - - 97,500 00

Net product, - ... $877,500 00

-»-•♦-

NATIONAL BANK.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, Dec. 14, 1790.

Treasury Department, Dec. 13, 1790.

In obedience to the order of the House of Eepresentatives, of the
ninth day of August last, requiring the Secretary of the
Treasury to prepare and report, on this day, such further
provision as ma}^, in his opinion, be necessary for establish-
ing the public credit, the said Secretary further respectfully
reports :

That, from a conviction (as suggested in his report herewith
presented*) that a National Bank is an institution of primary
importance to the prosperous administration of the finances, and

* See preceding Report.

JEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 107

would be of the greatest utility in the operations connected with
the support of the public credit, his attention has been drawn to
devising the plan of such an institution, upon a scale which will
entitle it to the confidence, and be likely to render it equal to the
exigencies of the public.

Previously to entering upon the detail of this plan, he en-
treats the indulgence of the House towards some preliminary
reflections naturally arising out of the subject, which he hopes
will be deemed neither useless nor out of place. Public opinion
being the ultimate arbiter of every measure of government, it
can scarcely appear improper, in deference to that, to accompany
the origination of any new proposition with explanations, which
the superior information of those to whom it is immediately
addressed, would render superfluous.

It is a fact, well understood, that public banks have found
admission and patronage among the principal and most enlight-
ened commercial nations. They have successively obtained in
Italy, Germany, Holland, England, and France, as well as in the
United States. And it is a circumstance which cannot but have
considerable weight, in a candid estimate of their tendency, that
after an experience of centuries, there exists not a question about
their utility in the countries in which they have been so long-
established. Theorists and men of business unite in the acknow-
ledgment of it.

Trade and industry, wherever they have been tried, have
been indebted to them for important aid. And government has
been repeatedly under the greatest obligations to them in dan-
gerous and distressing emergencies. That of the United States,
as well in some of the most critical conjunctures of the late wax,
as since the peace, has received assistance from those established
among us, with which it could not have dispensed.

With this twofold evidence before us, it might be expected
that there would be a perfect union of opinions in their favor.
Yet doubts have been entertained ; jealousies and prejudices have
circulated ; and, though the experiment is every day dissipating
them, within the spheres in which effects are best known, yet
there are still persons by whom they have not been entirely

108 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |^t. 33.

renounced. To give a full and accurate view of the subject,
would be to make a treatise of a report ; but there are certain
aspects in which it may be cursorily exhibited, which may per-
haps conduce to a just impression of its merits. These will
involve a comparison of the advantages, with the disadvantages,
real or supposed, of such institutions.

The following are among the principal advantages of a Bank :
First. The augmentation of the active or productive capital
of a country. Gold and silver, when they are employed merely
as the instruments of exchange and alienation, have been not
improperly denominated dead stock; but when deposited in
banks, to become the basis of a paper circulation, which takes
their character and place, as the signs or representatives of value,
they then acquire life, or, in other words, an active and produc-
tive quality. This idea, which appears rather subtile and abstract
in a general form, may be made obvious and palpable, by entering
into a few particulars. It is evident, for instance, that the money
which a merchant keeps in his chest, waiting for a favorable
opportunity to employ it, produces nothing till that opportu-
nity arrives. But if, instead of locking it up in this manner,
he either deposites it in a bank, or invests it in the stock of
a bank, it yields a profit during the interval, in which he par-
takes, or not, according to the choice he may have made of being
a depositor or a proprietor ; and when any advantageous specu-
lation offers, in order to be able to embrace it, he has only to
withdraw his money, if a depositor, or, if a proprietor, to obtain
a loan from the bank, or to dispose of his stock — an alternative
seldom or never attended with difficulty, when the affairs of the
institution are in a prosperous train. His money, thus deposited
or invested, is a fund upon which himself and others can borrow
to a much larger amount. It is a well established fact, that
banks in good credit can circulate a far greater sum than the
actual quantum of their capital in gold and silver. The extent
of the possible excess seems indeterminate ; though it has been
conjecturally stated at the proportions of two and three to one.
This faculty is produced in various ways. 1st. A great propor-
tion of the notes which are issued, and pass current as cash, are

jEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 109

indefinitely suspended in circulation, from the confidence which
each holder has, that he can, at any moment, turn them into gold
and silver. 2dly. Every loan which a bank makes, is, in its first
shape, a credit given to the borrower on its books, the amount' of
which it stands ready to pay, either in its own notes, or in gold
or silver, at his option. But, in a great number of cases, no
actual payment is made in either. The borrower, frequently, by
a check or order, transfers his credit to some other person, to
whom he has a payment to make ; who, in his turn, is as often
content with a similar credit, because he is satisfied that he can,
whenever he pleases, either convert it into cash, or pass it to
some other hand, as an equivalent for it. And in this manner
the credit keeps circulating, performing in every stage the office
of money, till it is extinguished by a discount with some per-
son who has a payment to make to the bank, to an equal or
greater amount. Thus large sums are lent and paid, frequently
through a variety of hands, without the intervention of a single
piece of coin. 3dly. There is always a large quantity of gold
and silver in the repositories of the bank, besides its own stock,
which is placed there, with a view partly to its safe keeping, and
partly to the accommodation of an institution, which is itself a
source of general accommodation. These deposites are of im-
mense consequence in the operations of a bank. Though liable
to be re-drawn at any moment, experience proves, that the money
so much oftener changes proprietors than place, and that what is
drawn out is generally so speedily replaced, as to authorize the
counting upon the sums deposited, as an effective fund, which,
concurring with the stock of the bank, enables it to extend its
loans, and to answer all the demands for coin, whether in conse-
quence of those loans, or arising from the occasional return of
its notes.

These different circumstances explain the manner in which
the ability of a bank to circulate a greater sum than its actual
capital in coin is acquired. This, however, must be gradual, ami
must be preceded by a firm establishment of confidence — a con-
fidence which may be bestowed on the most rational grounds,
since the excess in question will always be bottomed on good

110 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 33.

security of one kind or another. This, every well conducted
bank carefully requires, before it will consent to advance either
its money or its credit, and where there is an auxiliary capital
(as will be the case in the plan hereafter submitted), which, to-
gether with the capital in coin, define the boundary that shall
not be exceeded by the engagements of the bank, the security
may, consistently with all the maxims of a reasonable circum-
spection, be regarded as complete.

The same circumstances illustrate the truth of the position,
that it is one of the properties of banks to increase the active
capital of a country. This, in other words, is the sum of them :
the money of one individual, while he is waiting for an opportu-
nity to employ it, by being either deposited in the bank for safe
keeping, or invested in its stock, is in a condition to administer
to the wants of others, without being put out of his own reach
when occasion presents. This yields an extra profit, arising from
what is paid for the use of his money by others, when he could
not himself make use of it, and keeps the money itself in a state
of incessant activity. In the almost infinite vicissitudes and
competitions of mercantile enterprise, there never can be danger
of an intermission of demand, or that the money will remain for
a moment idle in the vaults of the bank. This additional em-
ployment given to money, and the faculty of a bank to lend and
circulate a greater sum than the amount of its stock in coin, are,
to all the purposes of trade and industry, an absolute increase of
capital. Purchases and undertakings, in general, can be carried
on by any given sum of bank paper or credit, as effectually as by
an equal sum of gold and silver. And thus, by contributing to
enlarge the mass of industrious and commercial enterprise, banks
become nurseries of national wealth — a consequence as satisfac-
torily verified by experience, as it is clearly deducible in theory.

Secondly. Greater facility to the Government, in obtaining
pecuniary aids, especially in sudden emergencies. This is an-
other, and an undisputed advantage of public banks — one which,
as already remarked, has been realized in signal instances among
ourselves. The reason is obvious; the capitals of a great num-
ber of individuals are, by this operation, collected to a point, and

^t. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. Ill

placed under one direction. The mass formed by this union, is,
in a certain sense, magnified by the credit attached to it ; and
while this mass is always ready, and can at once be put in mo-
tion, in aid of the Government, the interest of the bank to afford
that aid, independent of regard to the public safety and welfare,
is a sure pledge for its disposition to go as far in its compliances
as can in prudence be desired. There is, in the nature of things,
as will be more particularly noticed in another place, an inti-
mate connection of interest between the Government and the
bank of a nation.

Thirdly. The facilitating of the payment of taxes. This ad-
vantage is produced in two ways. Those who are in a situation
to have access to the bank, can have the assistance of loans, to
answer, with punctuality, the public calls upon them. This ac-
commodation has been sensibly felt in the payment of the duties
heretofore laid by those who reside where establishments of this
nature exist. This, however, though an extensive, is not a
universal benefit. The other way in which the effect here con-
templated is produced, and in which the benefit is general, is the
increasing of the quantity of circulating medium, and the quick-
ening of circulation. The manner in which the first happens,
has already been traced. The last may require some illustration.
When payments are to be made between different places, having
an intercourse of business with each other, if there happen to be
no private bills at market, and there are no bank notes which
have a currency in both, the consequence is, that coin must be
remitted. This is attended with trouble, delay, expense, and
risk. If, on the contrary, there are bank notes current in both
places, the transmission of these by the post, or any other speedy
or convenient conveyance, answers the purpose ; and those
again, in the alternations of demand, are frequently returned,
very soon after, to the place from whence they were first sent :
whence the transportation and re-transportation of the metals
are obviated, and a more convenient and more expeditious me-
dium of payment is substituted. Nor is this all ; the metals,
instead of being suspended from their usual functions during
this process of vibration from place to place, continue in activity,

112 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

and administer still to the ordinary circulation, which, of course,
is prevented from suffering either diminution or stagnation.
These circumstances are additional causes of what, in a practical
sense, or to the purposes of business, may be called greater plenty
of money. And it is evident, that whatever enhances the quan-
tity of circulating money, adds to the ease with which every
industrious member of the community may acquire that portion
of it of which he stands in need, and enables him the better to
pay his taxes, as well as to supply his other wants. Even where
the circulation of the bank paper is not general, it must still
have the same effect, though in a less degree. For, whatever
furnishes additional supplies to the channels of circulation, in
one quarter, naturally contributes to keep the streams fuller
elsewhere. This last view of the subject serves both to illustrate
the position that banks tend to facilitate the payment of taxes,
and to exemplify their utility to business of every kind in which
money is an agent.

It would be to intrude too much on the patience of the
House, to prolong the details of the advantages of banks ; espe-
cially, as all those which might still be particularized, are readily
to be inferred as consequences from those which have been enu-
merated. Their disadvantages, real or supposed, are now to be
reviewed. The most serious of the charges which have been
brought against them, are,

That they serve to increase usury ;

That they tend to prevent other kinds of lending ;

That they furnish temptations to overtrading ;

That they afford aid to ignorant adventurers, who disturb the
natural and beneficial course of trade ;

That they give to bankrupt and fraudulent traders, a ficti-
tious credit, which enables them to maintain false appearances,
and to extend their impositions ; and, lastly,

That they have a tendency to banish gold and silver from the
country.

There is great reason to believe, that, on a close and candid
survey, it will be discovered that these charges are either desti-
tute of foundation, or that, as far as the evils they suggest have

At. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 113

been found to exist, they have proceeded from other, or partial,
or temporary causes, are not inherent in the nature and perma-
nent tendency of such institutions, or are more than counterbal-
anced by opposite advantages. This survey shall be had, in
the order in which the charges have been stated. The first of
them, is —

That banks serve to increase usury.

It is a truth, which ought not to be denied, that the method
of conducting business, which is essential to bank operations,
has, among us, in particular instances, given occasion to usurious
transactions. The punctuality in payment, which they neces-
sarily exact, has sometimes obliged those who have adventured
beyond both their capital and their credit, to procure money at
any price, and, consequently, to resort to usurers for aid.

But experience and practice gradually bring a cure to this
evil. A general habit of punctuality among traders, is the
natural consequence of the necessity of observing it with the
bank — a circumstance which, itself, more than compensates for
any occasional ill which may have sprung from that necessity,
in the particular under consideration. As far, therefore, as
traders depend on each other for pecuniary supplies, they can
calculate their expectations with greater certainty ; and are in
proportionally less danger of disappointments, which might
compel them to have recourse to so pernicious an expedient as
that of borrowing at usury ; the mischiefs of which, after a few
examples, naturally inspire great care, in all but men of desper-
ate circumstances, to avoid the possibility of being subjected to
them. One, and not the least of these evils, incident to the use
of that expedient, if the fact be known, or even strongly sus-
pected, is loss of credit with the bank itself.

The directors of a bank, too, though, in order to extend its
business and its popularity, in the infancy of an institution, they
may be tempted to go further in accommodation than the strict
rules of prudence will warrant, grow more circumspect, of course,
as its affairs become better established, and as evils of too great
facility are experimentally demonstrated. They become more
attentive to the situation and conduct of those with whom they
HAMILTON'S WORKS

[JEt. 33.

deal ; they observe more narrowly their operations and pursuits ;
they economize the credit they give to those of suspicious
solidity ; they refuse it to those whose career is more manifestly
hazardous. In a word, in the course of practice, from the very
nature of things, the interest will make it the policy of a bank to
succor the wary and industrious ; to discredit the rash and un-
thrifty ; to discountenance both usurious lenders and usurious
borrowers.

There is a leading view, in which the tendency of banks will
be seen to be to abridge, rather than to promote usury. This
relates to their property of increasing the quantity and quicken-
ing the circulation of money. If it be evident, that usury will
prevail or diminish, according to the proportion which the de-
mand for borrowing bears to the quantity of money at market
to be lent ; whatever has the property just mentioned, whether
it be in the shape of paper or coin, by contributing to render
the supply more equal to the demand, must tend to counteract
the progress of usury.

But bank lending, it is pretended, is an impediment to other
kinds of lending ; which, by confining the resource of borrowing
to a particular class, leaves the rest of the community more desti-
tute, and, therefore, more exposed to the extortions of usurers.
As the profits of bank stock exceed the legal rate of interest, the
possessors of money, it is urged, prefer investing it in that article
to lending it at this rate ; to which, there are the additional mo-
tives of a more prompt command of the capital, and of more
frequent and exact returns, without trouble or perplexity in the
collection. This constitutes the second charge which has been
enumerated.

The fact on which this charge rests, is not to be admitted
without several qualifications ; particularly in reference to the
state of things in this country.

First. The great bulk of the stock of a bank will consist of
the funds of men in trade, among ourselves, and moneyed for-
eigners ; the former of whom could not spare their capitals out
of their reach, to be invested in loans for long periods, on mort-
gages or personal security ; and the latter of whom would not be

Mt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 115

willing to be subjected to tlie casualties, delays, and embarrass-
ments, of such a disposition of their money in a distant country.

Secondly. There will always be a considerable proportion of
those who are properly the money lenders of a country, who,
from that spirit of caution which usually characterizes this de-
scription of men, will incline rather to vest their funds in mort-
gages on real estate, than in the stock of a bank, which they are
apt to consider as a more precarious security.

These considerations serve, in a material degree, to narrow
the foundation of the objection, as to the point of fact. But
there is a more satisfactory answer to it. The effect supposed,
as far as it has existence, is temporary. The reverse of it takes
place in the general and permanent operation of the thing.

The capital of every public bank, will, of course, be restrict-
ed within a certain defined limit. It is the province of legisla-
tive prudence so to adjust this limit, that, while it will not be
too contracted for the demand which the course of business may
create, and for the security which the public ought to have for
the solidity of the paper which may be issued by the bank, it
will still be within the compass of the pecuniary resources of the
community ; so that there may be an easy practicability of com-
pleting the subscriptions to it. When this is once done, the
supposed effect, of necessity, ceases. There is then no longer
room for the investment of any additional capital. Stock may,
indeed, change hands, by one person selling and another buying ;
but the money which the buyer takes out of the common mass
to purchase the stock, the seller receives and restores to it.
Hence, the future surplusses which may accumulate must take

I their natural course, and lending at interest must go on as if
there were no such institution.
It must, indeed, flow in a more copious stream. The bank
furnishes an extraordinary supply for borrowers, within its im-
mediate sphere. A larger supply consequently remains for bor-
rowers elsewhere. In proportion as the circulation of the bank
is extended, there is an augmentation of the aggregate mass of
; money for answering the aggregate mass of demand. Hence
, greater facility in obtaining it for every purpose.

116 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

It ought not to escape without a remark, that, as far as the
citizens of other countries become adventurers in the bank, there
is a positive increase of the gold and silver of the country. It
is true, that, from this, a half yearly rent is drawn back, accruing
from the dividends upon the stock. But as this rent arises from
the employment of the capital by our own citizens, it is probable
that it is more than replaced by the profits of that employment.
It is also likely that a part of it is, in the course of trade, con-
verted into the products of our country : and it may even prove
an incentive, in some cases, to emigration to a country in which
the character of citizen is as easy to be acquired as it is esti-
mable and important. This view of the subject furnishes an
answer to an objection which has been deduced from the circum-
stance here taken notice of, namely, the income resulting to
foreigners from the part of the stock owned by them, which has
been represented as tending to drain the country of its specie.
In this objection, the original investment of the capital, and
the constant use of it afterwards, seem both to have been over-
looked.

That banks furnish temptations to overtrading, is the third of
the enumerated objections. This must mean, that, by affording
additional aids to mercantile enterprise, they induce the mer-
chant sometimes to adventure beyond the prudent or salutary
point. But the very statement of the thing shows that the sub-
ject of the charge is an occasional ill, incident to a general good.
Credit of every kind (as a species of which only, can bank lend-
ing have the effect supposed), must be, in different degrees,
chargeable with the same inconvenience. It is even applicable to
gold and silver, when they abound in circulation. But would it
be wise, on this account, to decry the precious metals, to root
out credit, or to proscribe the means of that enterprise which is
the main spring of trade, and a principal source of national
wealth, because it now and then runs into excesses, of which
overtrading is one ?

If the abuses of a beneficial thing are to determine its con-
demnation, there is scarcely a source of public prosperity which
will not speedily be closed. In every case, the evil is to be com-

jEt.33.] NATIONAL BANK. 117

pared with the good ; and in the present case such a comparison
will issue in this, that the new and increased energies derived
to commercial enterprise, from the aid of banks, are a source of
general profit and advantage, which greatly outweigh the partial
ills ; the overtrading of a few individuals, at particular times, or of
numbers in particular conjunctures.

The fourth and fifth charges may be considered together.
These relate to the aid which is sometimes afforded by banks to
unskilful adventurers and fraudulent traders. These charges,
also, have some degree of foundation, though far less than has
been pretended ; and they add to the instances of partial ills,
connected with more extensive and overbalancing benefits.

The practice of giving fictitious credit to improper persons, is
one of those evils which experience, guided by interest, speedily
corrects. The bank itself is in so much jeopardy of being a suf-
ferer by it, that it has the strongest of all inducements to be on
its guard. It may not only be injured immediately, by the de-
linquencies of the persons to whom such credit is given, but
eventually by the incapacities of others, whom their impositions
or failures may have ruined.

Nor is there much danger of a bank's being betrayed into
this error from want of information. The directors themselves,
being, for the most part, selected from the class of traders, are to
be expected to possess, individually, an accurate knowledge of
the characters and situations of those who come within that de-
scription. And they have, in addition to this, the course of
dealing of the persons themselves with the bank, to assist their
judgment, which is, in most cases, a good index of the state in
which those persons are. The artifices and shifts, which those
in desperate or declining circumstances are obliged to employ, to
keep up the countenance which the rules of the bank require,
and the train of their connections, are so many prognostics, not
difficult to be interpreted, of the fate which awaits them. Hence,
it not unfrequently happens, that banks are the first to discover
the unsoundness of such characters, and, by withholding credit,
to announce to the public that they are not entitled to it.

If banks, in spite of every precaution, are sometimes betrayed

118 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

into giving a false credit to the persons described, they more fre-
quently enable honest and industrious men, of small, or, perhaps,
of no capital, to undertake and prosecute business with advan-
tage to themselves and to the community ; and assist merchants,
of both capital and credit, who meet with fortuitous and unfore-
seen shocks, which might, without such helps, prove fatal to
them and to others, to make head against their misfortunes, and
finally to retrieve their affairs — circumstances which form no
inconsiderable encomium on the utility of banks.

But the last and heaviest charge is still to be examined:
this is, that banks tend to banish the gold and silver of the
country.

The force of this objection rests upon their being an engine
of paper credit, which, by furnishing a substitute for the metals,
is supposed to promote their exportation. It is an objection,
which, if it has any foundation, lies not against banks peculiarly,
but against every species of paper credit.

The most common answer given to it is, that the thing
supposed is of little or no consequence; that it is immaterial
what serves the purpose of money, whether paper, or gold and
silver ; that the effect of both upon industry is the same ; and
that the intrinsic wealth of a nation is to be measured, not by
the abundance of the precious metals contained in it, but by
the quantity of the productions of its labor and industry.

This answer is not destitute of solidity, though not entirely
satisfactory. It is certain, that the vivification of industry, by
a full circulation, with the aid of a proper and well regulated
paper credit, may more than compensate for the loss of a part
of the gold and silver of a nation, if the consequence of avoid-
ing that loss should be a scanty or defective circulation.

But the positive and permanent increase or decrease of the
precious metals in the country, can hardly ever be a matter of
indifference. As the commodity taken in lieu of every other, it
is a species of the most effective wealth ; and as the money of
the world, it is of great concern to the State, that it possess a
sufficiency of it to face any demands which the protection of its
external interest may create.

JEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 119

The objection seems to admit of another and a more con-
clusive answer, which controverts the fact itself. A nation that
has no mines of its own, must derive the precious metals from
others ; generally speaking, in exchange for the products of its
labor and industry. The quantity it will possess, will, therefore,
in the ordinary course of things, be regulated by the favorable
or unfavorable balance of its trade ; that is, by the proportion
between its abilities to supply foreigners, and its wants of
them ; between the amount of its exportations and that of its
importations. Hence, the state of its agriculture and manufac-
tures, the quantity and quality of its labor and industry, must,
in the main, influence and determine the increase or decrease
of its gold and silver.

If this be true, the inference seems to be, that well consti-
tuted banks favor the increase of the precious metals. It
has been shown that they augment, in different ways, the active
capital of a country. This it is which generates employment ;
which animates and expands labor and industry. Every addi-
tion which is made to it, by contributing to put in motion a
greater quantity of both, tends to create a greater quantity of
the products of both ; and, by furnishing more materials for
exportation, conduces to a favorable balance of trade, and, con-
sequently, to the introduction and increase of gold and silver.

This conclusion appears to be drawn from solid premises.
There are, however, objections to be made to it.

It may be said, that, as bank paper affords a substitute for
specie, it servqg to counteract that rigorous necessity for the
metals, as a medium of circulation, which, in the case of a wrong
balance, might restrain, in some degree, their exportation ; and
it may be added, that, from the same cause, in the same case, it
would retard those economical and parsimonious reforms in the
manner of living, which the scarcity of money is calculated to
produce, and which might be necessary to rectify such wrong
balance.

There is, perhaps, some truth in both these observations ;
but they appear to be of a nature rather to form exceptions to
the generality of the conclusion, than to overthrow it. The

H A M I L T 0 N ' 9 W 0 RKS. ^t. 33.

state of tilings in which the absolute exigencies of circulation can
be supposed to resist, with any effect, the urgent demands for
specie which a wrong balance of trade may occasion, presents an
extreme case. And a situation in which a too expensive manner
of living of a community, compared with its means, can stand in
need of a corrective, from distress or necessi: is one which,
perhaps, rarely results but from extraordinary and adventitious
causes; such, for example, as a national revolution; which un-
settles all the established habits of the people, and inflames the
appetite for extravagance, by the illusions of an ideal wealth, en-
gendered by the continual multiplication of a depreciating cur-
rency, or some similar cause. There is a good reason to bei:
that, where the laws are wise and well executed, and the invio-
lability of property and contracts maintained, the economy of a
people will, in the general course of things, correspond with its

The support of industry is, probably in every case, of more
consequence towards correcting a wrong balance of trade, than
practicable retrenchments in the expenses of families or indi-
viduals; and the stagnation of it would be likely to have more
effect in prolonging, than any such savings in shortening
continuance. That stagnation is a natural consequence of an in-
adequate medium, which, without the aid of bank circulation,
would, in the cases supposed, be severely felt

It also deserves notice, that, as the circulation is always in
a compound ratio to the fund upon which it depends, and to
the demand for it, and as that fund is itself affected by the ex-
portation of the metals, there is no danger of its being over-
stocked, as in the case of paper issued at the pleasure of the Go v-
ernmentj or of its preventing the consequences of any un-
favorable balance from being sufficiently felt to produce the
reforms alluded to, as far as circumstances may require and

Nothing can be more fallible than the comparisons which
have been made between different countries, to illustrate the
truth of the position under consideration. The compare
quantity of gold and silver in different countries, depends upon

jEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 121

an infinite variety of facts and combinations, all of which ought
to be known in order to judge whether the existence or non-
existence of paper currencies has any share in the relative pro-
portions they contain. The mass and value of the productions
of the labor and industry of each, compared with its wants ; the
nature of its establishments abroad ; the kind of wars in which
it is usually engaged ; the relations it bears to the countries
which are the original possessors of those metals; the privileges
it enjoys in their trade; these, and a number of other circum-
stances, arc all to be taken into the account, and render the
investigation too complex to justify any reliance on the vague
and general surmises which have been hitherto hazarded on the
point.

In the foregoing discussion, the objection has been considered
as applying to the permanent expulsion and diminution of the
metals. Their temporary exportation, for particular purposes,
has not been contemplated. This, it must be confessed, is facili-
tated by banks, from the faculty they possess of supplying their
place. But their utility is in nothing more conspicuous than in
these very cases. They enable the Government to pay its for-
eign debts, and to answer any exigencies which the external
concerns of the community may have produced. They enable
the merchant to support his credit (on which the prosperity of
trade depends), when special circumstances prevent remittances
in other modes. They enable him also to prosecute enterprises
which ultimately tend to an augmentation of the species of
wealth in question. It is evident that gold and silver may often
be employed in procuring commodities abroad, which, in a cir-
cuitous commerce, replace the original fund, with considerable
addition. But it is not to be inferred, from this facility given to
temporary exportation, that banks, which are so friendly to trade
and industry, are, in their general tendency, inimical to the in-
crease of the precious metals.

These several views of the subject appear sufficient to impress
a full conviction of the utility of banks, and to demonstrate that
they are of great importance, not only in relation to the adminis-

c 9

122 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 33.

tration of the finances, but in the general system of the political
economy.

The judgment of many concerning them, has, no doubt, been
perplexed, by the misinterpretation of appearances which were
to be ascribed to other causes. The general devastation of per-
sonal property, occasioned by the late war, naturally produced,
on the one hand, a great demand for money, and, on the other,
a great deficiency of it to answer the demand. Some injudi-
cious laws, which grew out of the public distresses, by impairing
confidence, and causing a part of the inadequate sum in the
country to be locked up, aggravated the evil. The dissipated
habits contracted by many individuals during the war, which,
after the peace, plunged them into expenses beyond their in-
comes ; the number of adventurers without capital, and, in many
instances, without information, who at that epoch rushed into
trade and were obliged to make any sacrifices to support a
transient credit ; the employment of considerable sums in specu-
lations upon the public debt, which, from its unsettled state,
was incapable of becoming itself a substitute : all these circum-
stances concurring, necessarily led to usurious borrowing, pro-
duced most of the inconveniences, and were the trur causes of
most of the appearances, which, where banks were established,
have been by some erroneously placed to their account — a mis-
take which they might easily have avoided by turning their eyes
towards places where there were none, and where, nevertheless,
the same evils would have been perceived to exist, even in a
greater degree than where those institutions had obtained.

These evils have either ceased, or been greatly mitigated.
Their more complete extinction may be looked for from that
additional security to property which the Constitution of the
United States happily gives (a circumstance of prodigious mo-
ment in the scale, both of public and private prosperity) ; from the
attraction of foreign capital, under the auspices of that security,
to be employed upon objects, and in enterprises, for which the
state of this country opens a wide and inviting field ; from the
consistency and stability which the public debt is fast acquiring,
as well in the public opinion at home and abroad, as in fact, from

Mt.33.) NATIONAL BANK. 123

the augmentation of capital which that circumstance and the
quarter-yearly payment of interest will afford; and from the
more copious circulation which will be likely to be created by a
well constituted national bank.

The establishment of banks in this country seems to be re-
commended by reasons of a peculiar nature. Previously to the
Eevolution, circulation was in a great measure carried on by
paper emitted by the several local governments. In Pennsylva-
nia alone, the quantity of it was near a million and a half of
dollars. This auxiliary may be said to be now at an end. And
it is generally supposed that there has been, for some time past,
a deficiency of circulating medium. How far that deficiency is
to be considered as real or imaginary, is not susceptible of demon-
stration ; but there are circumstances and appearances, which, in
relation to the country at large, countenance- the supposition of
its reality.

The circumstances are, besides the fact just mentioned respect-
ing paper emissions, the vast tracts of waste land, and the little
advanced state of manufactures. The progressive settlement of
the former, while it promises ample retribution, in the generation
of future resources, diminishes or obstructs, in the mean time,
the active wealth of the country. It not only draws off a part of
the circulating money, and places it in a more passive state, but
it diverts, into its own channels, a portion of that species of labor
and industry which would otherwise be employed in furnishing
materials for foreign trade, and which, by contributing to a
favorable balance, would assist the introduction of specie. In
the early periods of new settlements, the settlers not only furnish
no surplus for exportation, but they consume a part of that
which is produced by the labor of others. The same thing is a
cause that manufactures do not advance, or advance slowly. And
notwithstanding some hypotheses to the contrary, there are many
things to induce a suspicion, that the precious metals will not
abound in any country which has not mines, or variety of manu-
factures. They have been sometimes acquired by the sword ;
but the modern system of war has expelled this resource, and it
is one upon which it is to be hoped the United States will never
be inclined to rely.

124 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33-

The appearances alluded to, are, greater prevalency of direct
barter, in the more interior districts of the country, which, how-
ever, has been for some time past gradually lessening ; and
greater difficulty, generally, in the advantageous alienation of
improved real estate ; which, also, has of late diminished, but
is still seriously felt in different parts of the Union. The diffi-
culty of getting money, which has been a general complaint, is
not added to the number; because it is the complaint of all
times, and one in which imagination must ever have too great
scope to permit an appeal to it.

If the supposition of such a deficiency be in any degree
founded, and some aid to circulation be desirable, it remains to
inquire what ought to be the nature of that aid.

The emitting of paper money by the authority of the Gov-
ernment is wisely prohibited to the individual States, by the
national constitution ; and the spirit of that prohibition ought
not to be disregarded by the Government of the United States.
Though paper emissions, under a general authority, might have
some advantages not applicable, and be free from some disad-
vantages which are applicable to the like emissions by the
States, separately, yet they are of a nature so liable to abuse
— and, it may even be affirmed, so certain of being abused —
that the wisdom of the Government will be shown in never
trusting itself with the use of so seducing and dangerous an
expedient. In times of tranquillity, it might have no ill conse-
quence ; it might even perhaps be managed in a way to be pro-
ductive of good : but, in great and trying emergencies, there is
almost a moral certainty of its becoming mischievous. The
stamping of paper is an operation so much easier than the lay-
ing of taxes, that a government in the practice of paper emissions
would rarely fail, in any such emergency, to indulge itself too
far in the employment of that resource, to avoid, as much as pos-
sible, one less auspicious to present popularity. If it should not
even be carried so far as to be rendered an absolute bubble, it
would at least be likely to be extended to a degree which would
occasion an inflated and artificial state of things, incompatible
with the regular and prosperous course of the political economy.

JSt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 125

Among other material differences between a paper currency,
issued by the mere authority of Government, and one issued by
a bank, payable in coin, is this: That, in the first case, there is
no standard to which an appeal can be made, as to the quantity
which will only satisfy, or which will surcharge the circulation :
in the last, that standard results from the demand. If more
should be issued than is necessary, it will return upon the bank.
Its emissions, as elsewhere intimated, must always be in a com-
pound ratio to the fund and the demand : whence it is evident,
that there is a limitation in the nature of the thing ; while the
discretion of the Government is the only measure of the extent
of the emissions, by its own authority.

This consideration further illustrates the danger of emis-
sions of that sort, and the preference which is due to bank paper.

The payment of the interest of the public debt, at thirteen
different places, is a weighty reason, peculiar to our immediate
situation, for desiring a bank circulation. "Without a paper,
in general currency, equivalent to gold and silver, a considerable
proportion of the specie of the country must always be suspended
from circulation, and left to accumulate, preparatory to each day
of payment; and as often as one approaches, there must in
several cases be an actual transportation of the metals, at both
expense and risk, from their natural and proper reservoirs, to
distant places. This necessity will be felt very injuriously to
the trade of some of the States ; and will embarrass, not a little,
the operations of the treasury in those States. It will also ob-
struct those negotiations, between different parts of the Union,
by the instrumentality of treasury bills, which have already
afforded valuable accommodations to trade in general.

Assuming it, then, as a consequence, from what has been
said, that a National Bank is a desirable institution, two inqui-
ries emerge : Is there no such institution, already in being, which
has a claim to that character, and which supersedes the propriety
or necessity of another? If there be none, what are the princi-
ples upon which one ought to be established ?

There are at present three banks in the United States: that
of North America, established in the city of Philadelphia ; that

126 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

of New- York, established in the city of New- York ; that of Mas-
sachusetts, established in the town of Boston. Of these three,
the first is the only one which has at any time had a direct rela-
tion to the Government of the United States.

The Bank of North America originated in a resolution of
Congress of the 26th of May, 1781, founded upon a proposition of
the Superintendent of Finance, which was afterwards carried
into execution by an ordinance of the 31st of December follow-
ing, entitled " An ordinance to incorporate the subscribers to the
Bank of North America."

The aid afforded to the United States by this institution,
during the remaining period of the war, was of essential conse-
quence ; and its conduct towards them since the peace, has not
weakened its title to their patronage and favor. So far, its pre-
tensions to the character in question are respectable ; but there
are circumstances which militate against them, and considerations
which indicate the propriety of an establishment on different
principles.

The directors of this bank, on behalf of their constituents,
have since accepted, and acted under, a new charter, from the
State of Pennsylvania, materially variant from their original one,
and which so narrows the foundation of the institution, as to
render it an incompetent basis for the extensive purposes of a
national bank.

The limit assigned by the ordinance of Congress to the stock
of the bank, is ten millions of dollars. The last charter of Penn-
sylvania confines it to two millions. Questions naturally arise,
whether there be not a direct repugnancy between two charters
so differently circumstanced ? and whether the acceptance of the
one, is not to be deemed a virtual surrender of the other? But,
perhaps it is neither advisable nor necessary to attempt a solution
of them.

There is nothing in the acts of Congress which imply an
exclusive right in the institution to which they relate, except
during the term of the war. There is, therefore, nothing, if the
public good require it, which prevents the establishment of
another. It may, however, be incidentally remarked, that in the

iET. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 127

general opinion of the citizens of the United States, the Bank of
North America has taken the station of a bank of Pennsylvania
only. This is a strong argument for a new institution, or for a
renovation of the old, to restore it to the situation in which it
originally stood in the view of the United States.

But, though the ordinance of Congress contains no grant of
exclusive privileges, there may be room to allege, that the Gov-
ernment of the United States ought not, in point of candor and
equity, to establish any rival or interfering institution, in preju-
dice of the one already established ; especially as this has, from
services rendered, well founded claims to protection and regard.

The justice of such an observation ought, within proper
bounds, to be admitted. A new establishment of the sort ought
not to be made without cogent and sincere reasons of public
good. And, in the manner of doing it, every facility should be
given to a consolidation of the old with the new, upon terms not
injurious to the parties concerned. But there is no ground to
maintain that, in a case in which the Government has made no
condition restricting its authority, it ought voluntarily to restrict
it, through regard to the interests of a particular institution,
when those of the State dictate a different course ; especially,
too, after such circumstances have intervened, as characterize the
actual situation of the Bank of North America.

The inducements to a new disposition of the thing are now
to be considered. The first of them which occurs is, the, at
least, ambiguous situation in which the Bank of North America
| has placed itself, by the acceptance of its last charter. If this
has rendered it the mere bank of a particular State, liable to dis-
solution at the expiration of fourteen years, to which term the
act of that State has restricted its duration, it would be neither lit
nor expedient to accept it as an equivalent for a bank of the
United States.

The restriction of its capital, also, which, according to the
same supposition, cannot be extended beyond two millions oi
dollars, is a conclusive reason for a different establishment >o
small a capital promises neither the requisite aid to Government,
nor the requisite security to the community. It may answer

128 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

very well the purposes of local accommodation, but is an inade-
quate foundation for a circulation coextensive with the United
States, embracing the whole of their revenues, and affecting
every individual into whose hands the paper may come.

And, inadequate as such a capital would be to the essential '■
ends of a National Bank, it is liable to being rendered still more
so, by that principle of the constitution of the Bank of North
America, contained equally in its old and in its new charter,
which leaves the increase of the actual capital at any time (now
far short of the allowed extent) to the discretion of the directors
or stockholders. It is naturally to be expected, that the allure-
ments of an advanced price of stock, and of large dividends, may
disincline those who are interested to an extension of capital,
from which they will be apt to fear a diminution of profits. And
for this circumstance, the interest and accommodation of the
public (as well individually as collectively), are made more sub-
ordinate to the interest, real or imagined, of the stockholders,
than they ought to be. It is true, that, unless the latter be con-
sulted, there can be no bank (in the sense at least in which insti-
tutions of this kind, worthy of confidence, can be established in
this country). But, it does not follow that this alone is to be
consulted, or that it even ought to be paramount. Public utility
is more truly the object of public banks than private profit. And
it is the business of Government to constitute them on such prin-
ciples, that, while the latter will result in a sufficient degree to
afford competent motives to engage in them, the former be not
made subservient to it. To effect this, a principal object of atten-
tion ought to be to give free scope to the creation of an ample
capital, and with this view, fixing the bounds which are deemed
safe and convenient, to leave no discretion either to stop short of
them, or to overpass them. The want of this precaution in the
establishment of the Bank of North America, is a further and
an important reason for desiring one differently constituted.

There may be room at first sight for a supposition, that,
as the profits o( a bank will bear a proportion to the extent of its
operations, and as for this reason the interest of the stockholders
will not be disadvantageous^ affected by any necessary atig-

JEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 1*29

mentations of capital, there is no cause to apprehend that they
will be indisposed to such augmentations. But most men, in
matters of this nature, prefer the certainties they enjoy, to
probabilities depending on untried experiments, especially, Avhen
these promise rather that they will not be injured, than that they
will be benefited.

From the influence of this principle, and a desire of enhancing
its profits, the directors of a bank will be more apt to overstrain
its faculties, in an attempt to face the additional demands which
the course of business may create, than to set on foot new sub-
scriptions, which may hazard a diminution of the profits, and
even a temporary reduction of the price of stock.

Banks are among the best expedients for lowering the rate of
interest in a country ; but, to have this effect, their capitals must
be completely equal to all the demands of business, and such as
will tend to remove the idea, that the accommodations they
afford are in any degree favors — an idea very apt to accompany
the parsimonious dispensation of contracted funds. In this, as
in every other case, the plenty of the commodity ought to beget
a moderation of the price.

The want of a principle of rotation in the constitution of the
Bank of North America is another argument for a variation of
the establishment. Scarcely one of the reasons which militate
against this principle in the constitution of a country, is applica-
ble to that of a bank ; while there are strong reasons in favor of
it, in relation to the one, which do not apply to the other. The
knowledge to be derived from experienee is the only circum-
stance common to both, which pleads against rotation in the
directing officers of a bank.

But the objects of the Government of a nation, and those of
the government of a bank, are so widely different, as greatly to
weaken the force of that consideration in reference to the latter.
Almost every important case of legislation requires, towards a
right decision, a general and accurate acquaintance with the
affairs of the State, and habits of thinking seldom acquired but
from a familiarity with public concerns. The administration of
a bank, on the contrary, is regulated by a few simple fixed max-

130 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 33.

ims, the application of which is not difficult to any man of judg-
ment, especially if instructed in the principles of trade. It is, in
general, a constant succession of the same details.

But, though this be the case, the idea of the advantages of
experience is not to be slighted. Boom ought to be left for the
regular transmission of official information ; and, for this pur-
pose, the head of the direction ought to be excepted from the
principle of rotation. With this exception, and with the aid of
the information of the subordinate officers, there can be no dan-
ger of any ill effects from want of experience or knowledge ;
especially as the periodical exclusion ought not to reach the
whole of the directors at one time.

The argument in favor of the principle of rotation is this :
that, by lessening the danger of combinations among the direc-
tors, to make the institution subservient to party views, or to the
accommodation, preferably, of any particular set of men, it will
render the public confidence more firm, stable, and unqualified.

When it is considered that the directors of a bank are not
elected by the great body of the community, in which a diver-
sity of views will naturally prevail at different conjunctures, but
by a small and select class of men, among whom it is far more
easy to cultivate a steady adherence to the same persons and ob-
jects, and that those directors have it in their power so immedi-
ately to conciliate, by obliging the most influential of this class,
it is easy to perceive that, without the principle of rotation,
changes in that body can rarely happen, but as a concession
which they may themselves think it expedient to make to public
opinion.

The continual administration of an institution of this kind,
by the same persons, will never fail, with or without cause, from
their conduct, to excite distrust and discontent. The necessary
secrecy of their transactions gives unlimited scope to imagination
to infer that something is or may be wrong. And this inevitable
mystery is a solid reason for inserting in the constitution of a
bank the necessity of a change of men. As neither the mass of
the parties interested, nor the public in general, can be permitted
to be witnesses of the interior management of the directors, it is

Mt. 33.]

NATIONAL BANK. 131

reasonable that both should have that check upon their conduct,
and that security against the prevalency of a partial or perni-
cious system, which will be produced by the certainty of peri-
odical changes. Such, too, is the delicacy of the credit of a
bank, that every thing which can fortify confidence and repel
suspicion, without injuring its operations, ought carefully to be
sought after in its formation.

A further consideration in favor of a change, is the improper
rule by which the right of voting for directors is regulated in
the plan upon which the Bank of North America was originally
constituted, namely, a vote for each share, and the want of a rule
in the last charter ; unless the silence of it, on that point, may
signify that every stockholder is to have an equal and a single
vote ; which would be a rule in a different extreme, not less er~
roneous. It is of importance that a rule should be established
on this head, as it is one of those things which ought not to be
left to discretion ; and it is, consequently, of equal importance
that the rule should be a proper one.

A vote for each share renders a combination between a few
principal stockholders, to monopolize the power and benefits of
the bank, too easy. An equal vote to each stockholder, how-
ever great or small his interest in the institution, allows not that
degree of weight to large stockholders which it is reasonable
they should have, and which, perhaps, their security and that of
the bank require. A prudent mean is to be preferred. A con-
viction of this has produced a by-law of the corporation of the
Bank of North America, which evidently aims at such a mean.
But a reflection arises here, that a like majority with that which
enacted this law, may, at any moment, repeal it.

The last inducement which shall be mentioned, is the want
of precautions to guard against a foreign influence insinuating
itself into the direction of the bank. It seems scarcely recon-
cilable with due caution, to permit that any but citizens should
be eligible, as directors of a national bank, or that non-resident
foreigners should be able to influence the appointment of direc-
tors by the votes of their proxies. In the event, however, of an
incorporation of the Bank of North America in the plan, it may

132 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 33.

be necessary to qualify this principle, so as to leave the right of
foreigners, who now hold shares of its stock, unimpaired ; but
without the power of transmitting the privilege in question to
foreign alliances.

It is to be considered that such a bank is not a mere matter
of private property, but a political machine, of the greatest im-
portance to the State.

There are other variations from the constitution of the Bank
of North America, not of inconsiderable moment, which appear
desirable, but which are not of magnitude enough to claim a
preliminary discussion. These will be seen in the plan which
will be submitted in the sequel.

If the objections which have been stated to the constitution
of the Bank of North America are admitted to be well-founded,
they will, nevertheless, not derogate from the merit of the main
design, or of the services which that bank has rendered, or of
the benefits which it has produced. The creation of such an
institution, at the time it took place, was a measure dictated by
wisdom. Its utility has been amply evinced by its fruits ; Ame-
rican independence owes much to it. And it is very conceiva-
ble, that reasons of the moment may have rendered those fea-
tures in it inexpedient, which a revision, with a permanent view,
suggests as desirable.

The order of the subject leads next to an inquiry into the
principles upon which a national bank ought to be organized.

The situation of the United States naturally inspires a wish
that the form of the institution could admit of a plurality of
branches. But various considerations discourage from pursuing
this idea. The complexity of such a plan would be apt to
inspire doubts, which might deter from adventuring in it. And
the practicability of a safe and orderly administration, though not
to be abandoned as desperate, cannot be made so manifest in
perspective, as to promise the removal of those doubts, or to
justify the Government in adopting the idea as an original ex-
periment. The most that would seem advisable, on this point,
is to insert a provision which may lead to it hereafter, if experi-
ence shall more clearly demonstrate its utility, and satisfy those

Mr. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 133

who may have the direction, that it may be adopted with safety.
It is certain that it would have some advantages, both peculiar
and important. Besides more general accommodation, it would
lessen the danger of a run upon the bank.

The argument against it is, that each branch must be under
a distinct, though subordinate direction, to which a considerable
latitude of discretion must, of necessity, be intrusted. And, as
the property of the whole institution would be liable for the en-
gagements of each part, that and its credit would be at stake,
upon the prudence of the directors of every part. The mis-
management of either branch might hazard serious disorder in
the whole.

Another wish, dictated by the particular situation of the
country, is, that the bank could be so constituted as to be made
an immediate instrument of loans to the proprietors of land ;
but this wish also yields to the difficulty of accomplishing it.
Land is, alone, an unfit fund for a bank circulation. If the notes
issued upon it were not to be payable in coin, on demand, or at a
short date, this would amount to nothing more than a repetition
of the paper emissions, which are now exploded by the general
voice. If the notes are to be payable in coin, the land must
first be converted into it by sale, or mortgage. The difficulty of
effecting the latter, is the very thing which begets the desire of
finding another resource ; and the former would not be prac-
ticable on a sudden emergency, but with sacrifices which would
make the cure worse than the disease. Neither is the idea of
constituting the fund partly of coin and partly of land, free from
impediments. These two species of property do not, for the
most part, unite in the same hands. Will the moneyed man
consent to enter into a partnership with the landholder, by which
the latter will share in the profits which will be made by the money
of the former? The money, it is evident, will be the agent or
efficient cause of the profits — the land can only be regarded as
an additional security. It is not difficult to foresee, that a
union, on such terms, will not readily be formed. If the land-
holders are to procure the money by sale or mortgage of a part
of their lands, this they can as well do when the stock consists

134 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 33.

wholly of money, as if it were to be compounded of money and
land.

To procure for the landholders the assistance of loans, is the
great desideratum. Supposing other difficulties surmounted, and
a fund created, composed partly of coin and partly of land, yet
the benefit contemplated could only then be obtained by the
bank's advancing them its notes for the whole, or part, of the
value of the lands they had subscribed to the stock. If this ad-
vance was small, the relief aimed at would not be given ; if it
was large, the quantity of notes issued would be a cause of
distrust; and, if received at all, they would be likely to return
speedily upon the bank for payment; which, after exhausting
its coin, might be under a necessity of turning its lands into
money, at any price that could be obtained for them, to the irre-
parable prejudice of the proprietors.

Considerations of public advantage suggest a further wish,
which is — that the bank could be established upon principles,
that would cause the profits of it to redound to the immediate
benefit of the State. This is contemplated by many who speak
of a national bank, but the idea seems liable to insuperable
objections. To attach full confidence to an institution of this
nature, it appears to be an essential ingredient in its structure,
that it shall be under a private not a public direction — under the
guidance of individual interest, not of public policy ; which would
be supposed to be, and, in certain emergencies, under a feeble
or too sanguine administration, would really be, liable to being
too much influenced by public necessity. The suspicion of this
would, most probably, be a canker that would continually
corrode the vitals of the credit of the bank, and would be most
likely to prove fatal in those situations in which the public good
would require that they should be most sound and vigorous.
It would, indeed, be little less than a miracle, should the credit
of the bank be at the disposal of the Government, if, in a long
series of time, there was not experienced a calamitous abuse of
it. It is true, that it would be the real interest of the Govern-
ment not to abuse it ; its genuine policy to husband and cherish
it with the most guarded circumspection, as an inestimable

jEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 135

treasure. But what Government ever uniformly consulted its
true interests in opposition to the temptations of momentary ex-
igencies ? What nation was ever blessed with a constant suc-
cession of upright and wise administrators ?

The keen, steady, and, as it were, magnetic sense of their
own interest as proprietors, in the directors of a bank, pointing
invariably to its true pole- — the prosperity of the institution — is
the only security that can always be relied upon for a careful
and prudent administration. It is, therefore, the only basis on
which an enlightened, unqualified, and permanent confidence
can be expected to be erected and maintained.

The precedents of the banks established in several cities of
Europe, Amsterdam, Hamburgh, and others, may seem to
militate against this position. Without a precise knowledge of
all the peculiarities of their respective constitutions, it is difficult
to pronounce how far this may be the case. That of Amsterdam,
however, which we best know, is rather under a municipal than
a governmental direction. Particular magistrates of the city,
not officers of the republic, have the management of it. It is
also a bank of deposit, not of loan, or circulation ; consequently,
less liable to abuse, as well as less useful. Its general business
consists in receiving money for safe keeping, which, if not called
for within a certain time, becomes a part of its stock, and irre-
claimable. But a credit is given for it on the books of the bank,
which, being transferable, answers all the purposes of money.

The directors being magistrates of the city, and the stock-
holders in general its most influential citizens, it is evident that
the principle of private interest must be prevalent in the
management of the bank. And it is equally evident, that,
from the nature of its operations, that principle is less essential
to it than to an institution constituted with a view to the accom-
modation of the public and individuals, by direct loans and a
paper circulation.

As far as may concern the aid of the bank, within the proper
limits, a good Government has nothing more to wish for than it
will always possess, though the management be in the hands of
private individuals. As the institution, if rightly constituted,

L36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

must depend for its renovation, from time to time, on the
pleasure of the Government, it will not be likely to feel a dis-
position to render itself, by its conduct, unworthy of public
patronage. The Government, too, in the administration of its
finances, has it in its power to reciprocate benefits to the bank,
of not less importance than those which the bank affords to
the Government, and which, besides, are never unattended with
an immediate and adequate compensation. Independent of
these more particular considerations, the natural weight and

influence of a g I Government will always go far towards

procuring a compliance with its desires : and, as the directors
will usually be composed of some of the most discreet, respect-
able, and well-informed citizens, it can hardly ever be difficult
to make them sensible oi' the force of the inducements which
ought to stimulate their exertions.

It will not follow, from what has been said, that the State
may not he the holder of a part oi' the stock of a bank, and con-
sequently a sharer in the profits of it. It will only follow that
it ought not to desire any participation in the direction of it. and,
therefore, ought not to own the whole or a principal part of the
stock; for, it' the mass of the property should belong to the
public, and if the direction of it should be in private hands, this
would be to commit the interests of the State to persons not
interested, or not enough interested in their proper manage-
ment.

There is one thing, however, which the Government owes to
itself and the community — at least, to all that part of it who are
not Stockholders — which is, to reserve to itself a right of ascer-
taining, as often as may be nee ssary, the of the bank: ex-
cluding, however, all pretension to control. This right forme
article in the primitive constitution of the Bank of North
.America; and its propriety stands upon the clearest reasons. If
the paper of a bank is to be permitted to insinuate itself into all
the revenues and receipts o[' a country: if it is even to be
tolerated as the substitute tor gold and silver in all the transac-
tions o\' business: it becomes, in either view, a national concern
oi' the first magnitude. As such, the ordinary rules of prudence

At. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 137

require that the Government should possess the means of ascer-
taining, whenever it thinks fit, that so delicate a trust is execut-
ed with fidelity and care. A right of this nature is not only
desirable, as it respects the Government, but it ought to be
equally so to all those concerned in the institution, as an addi-
tional title to public and private confidence, and as a thing which
can only be formidable to practices that imply mismanagement.
The presumption must always be, that the characters who would
be intrusted with the exercise of this right, on behalf of the
Government, will not be deficient in the discretion which it may
require ; at least, the admitting this presumption cannot be
deemed too great a return of confidence for that very large por-
tion of it which the Government is required to place in the bank.
Abandoning, therefore, ideas which, however agreeable or
desirable, are neither practicable nor safe, the following plan, for
the constitution of a National Bank, is respectfully submitted to
the consideration of the House.

1. The capital stock of the bank shall not exceed ten millions
of dollars, divided into twenty-five thousand shares, each share
being four hundred dollars ; to raise which sum, subscriptions
shall be opened on the first Monday of April next, and shall
continue open until the whole shall be subscribed. Bodies poli-
tic as well as individuals may subscribe.

2. The amount of each share shall be payable, one-fourth in
gold and silver coin, and three-fourths in that part of the public
debt, which, according to the loan proposed by the act making
provision for the debt of the United States, shall bear an accru-
ing interest, at the time of payment, of six per centum per
annum.

3. The respective sums subscribed shall be payable in four
equal parts, as well specie as debt, in succession, and at the dis-
tance of six calendar months from each other ; the first payment
to be made at the time of subscription. If there shall be a fail-
ure in any subsequent payment, the party failing shall lose the
benefit of any dividend which may have accrued prior to the
time for making such payment, and during the delay of the same.

4. The subscribers to the bank, and their successors, shall be
c 10

138 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

incorporated, and shall so continue until the final redemption of
that part of its stock which shall consist of the jDublic debt.

5. The capacity of the corporation to hold real and personal
estate, shall be limited to fifteen millions of dollars, including the
amount of its capital, or original stock. The lands and tene-
ments which it shall be permitted to hold, shall be only such as
shall be requisite for the immediate accommodation of the insti-
tution, and such as shall have been bona fide mortgaged to it by
way of security, or conveyed to it in satisfaction of debts previously
contracted, in the usual course of its dealings, or purchased at sales
upon judgments which shall have been obtained for such debts.

6. The totality of the debts of the company, whether by
bond, bill, or other contract (credits for deposites excepted), shall
never exceed the amount of its capital stock. In case of excess,
the directors, under whose administration it shall happen, shall
be liable for it in their private or separate capacities. Those
who may have dissented may excuse themselves from this re-
sponsibility, by immediately giving notice of the fact, and their
dissent, to the President of the United States, and to the stock-
holders, at a general meeting, to be called by the President of
the bank, at their request.

7. The company may sell or demise its lands and tenements,
or may sell the whole, or any part of the public debt, whereof
its stock shall consist ; but shall trade in nothing except bills of
exchange, gold and silver bullion, or in the sale of goods pledged
for money lent ; nor shall take more than at the rate of six per
centum per annum, upon its loans or discounts.

8. No loan shall be made by the bank for the use, or on ac-
count, of the Government of the United States, or of either of
them, to an amount exceeding fifty thousand dollars, or of any
foreign prince or State, unless previously authorized by a law of
the United States.

9. The stock of the bank shall be transferable, according to
such rules as shall be instituted by the company in that behalf.

10. The affairs of the bank shall be under the management

O

of twenty-five directors, one of whom shall be the President ;
and there shall be, on the first Monday of January, in each year,

jEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 139

a choice of directors, by a plurality of suffrages of the stock-
holders, to serve for a year. The directors, at their first meeting
after each election, shall choose one of their number as President.

11. The number of votes to which each stockholder shall be
entitled, shall be according to the number of shares he shall
hold, in the proportions following, that is to say : For one share,
and not more than two shares, one vote ; for every two shares
above two, and not exceeding ten, one vote; for every four
shares above ten, and not exceeding thirty, one vote ; for every
six shares above thirty, and not exceeding sixty, one vote;
for every eight shares above sixty, and not exceeding one hun-
dred, one vote ; and for every ten shares above one hundred,
one vote ; but no person, copartnership, or body politic, shall be
entitled to a greater number than thirty votes. And, after the
first election, no share or shares shall confer a right of suffrage,
which shall not have been holden three calendar months previous
to the day of election. Stockholders actually resident within the
United States, and none other, may vote in the elections by proxy.

12. Not more than three-fourths of the directors in office, ex-
clusive of the President, shall be eligible for the next succeeding
year. But the director who shall be President at the time of
an election, may always be re-elected.

13. None but a stockholder, being a citizen of the United
States, shall be eligible as a director.

14. Any number of stockholders not less than sixty, who,
together, shall be proprietors of two hundred shares, or upwards,
shall have power, at any time, to call a general meeting of the
stockholders, for purposes relative to the institution ; giving at
least six weeks' notice, in two public gazettes, of the place where
the bank is kept, and specifying, in such notice, the object of the
meeting.

15. In case of the death, resignation, absence from the United
States, or removal, of a director, by the stockholders, his place
may be filled by a new choice for the remainder of the year.

16. No director shall be entitled to any emolument, unless
the same shall have been allowed by the stockholders at a gene-
ral meeting. The stockholders shall make such compensation

140 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

to the President, for his extraordinary attendance at the bank, as
shall appear to them reasonable.

17. Not less than seven directors shall constitute a board
for the transaction of business.

18. Every cashier or treasurer, before he enters on the
duties of his office, shall be required to give bond, with two or
more sureties, to the satisfaction of the directors, in a sum not less
than twenty thousand dollars, with condition for his good be-
havior.

19. Half-yearly dividends shall be made of so much of the
profits of the bank, as shall appear to the directors advisable.
And, once in every three years, the directors shall lay before
the stockholders, at a general meeting, for their information, an
exact and particular statement of the debts which shall have re-
mained unpaid, after the expiration of the original credit, for a
period of treble the term of that credit, and of the surplus of
profit, if any, after deducting losses and dividends.

20. The bills and notes of the bank, originally made payable,
or which shall have become payable, on demand, in gold and
silver coin, shall be receivable in all payments to the United
States.

21. The officer at the head of the Treasury Department of
the United States shall be furnished, from time to time, as often
as he may require, not exceeding once a week, with statements
of the amount of the capital stock of the bank, and of the debts
due to the same, of the moneys deposited therein, of the notes in
circulation, and of the cash in hand ; and shall have a right to
inspect such general accounts in the books of the bank as shall
relate to the said statements ; provided that this shall not be con-
strued to imply a right of inspecting the account of any private
individual or individuals, with the bank.

22. No similar institution shall be established by any future
act of the United States, during the continuance of the one
hereby proposed to be established.

23. It shall be lawful for the directors of the bank to estab-
lish offices wheresoever they shall think fit, within the United
States, for the purposes of discount and deposit only, and upon the

Mr. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 141

same terms, and in the same manner, as shall be practised at the
bank, and to commit the management of the said offices, and the
making of the said discounts, either to agents specially appointed
by them, or to such persons as may be chosen by the stockhold-
ers residing at the place where any such office shall be, under
such agreements, and subject to such regulations, as they shall
deem proper, not being contrary to law, or to the constitution of
the bank.

24. And lastly, the President of the United States shall be
authorized to cause a subscription to be made to the stock of the
said company, on behalf of the United States, to an amount not
exceeding two millions of dollars, to be paid out of the moneys
which shall be borrowed by virtue of either of the acts, the one
entitled " An act making provision for the debt of the United
States;" and the other, entitled "An act making provision for
the reduction of the public debt;" borrowing of the bank an
equal sum, to be applied to the purposes for which the said
moneys shall have been procured, reimbursable in ten years, by
equal annual instalments ; or at any time sooner, or in any
greater proportions, that the Government may think fit.

The reasons for the several provisions contained in the fore-
going plan, have been so far anticipated, and will, for the most
part, be so readily suggested by the nature of those provisions,
that any comments which need further to be made, will be both
few and concise.

The combination of a portion of the public debt, in the forma-
tion of the capital, is the principal thing of which an explanation
is requisite. The chief object of this is to enable the creation of
a capital sufficiently large to be the basis of an extensive circula-
tion, and an adequate security for it. As has been elsewhere re-
marked, the original plan of the Bank of North America con-
templated a capital of ten millions of dollars, which is certainly
not too broad a foundation for the extensive operations to which
a national bank is destined. But to collect such a sum in this
country, in gold and silver, into one depository, may, without
hesitation, be pronounced impracticable. Hence the necessity
of an auxiliary, which the public debt at once presents.

142 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33-

This part of the fund will always be ready to come in aid
of the specie ; it will more and more command a ready sale ;
and can, therefore, expeditiously be turned into coin, if an exi-
gency of the bank should at any time require it. This quality
of prompt convertibility into coin, renders it an equivalent for
that necessary agent of bank circulation, and distinguishes it
from a fund in land, of which the sale would generally be far
less compendious, and at great disadvantage. The quarter -yearly
receipts of interest will also be an actual addition to the specie
fund, during the intervals between them and the half yearly
dividends of profits. The objection to combining land with
specie, resulting from their not being generally in possession of
the same persons,' does not apply to the debt, which will always
be found in considerable quantity among the moneyed and trad-
ing people.

The debt composing part of the capital, besides its collateral
effect in enabling the bank to extend its operations, and conse-
quently to enlarge its profits, will produce a direct annual re-
venue of six per centum for the Government, which will enter
into the half-yearly dividends received by the stockholders.

When the present price of the public debt is considered, and
the effect which its conversion into bank stock, incorporated
with a specie fund, would, in all probability, have to accelerate
its rise to the proper point, it will easily be discovered, that the
operation presents, in its outset, a very considerable advantage
to those who may become subscribers ; and from the influence
which that rise would have on the general mass of the debt, a
proportional benefit to all the public creditors, and, in a sense
which has been more than once adverted to, to the community
at large.

There is an important fact, which exemplifies the fitness of
the public debt for a bank fund, and which may serve to remove
doubts in some minds on this point : it is this, that the Bank of
England, in its first erection, rested wholly on that foundation.
The subscribers to a loan to Government of one million two
hundred thousand pounds sterling, were incorporated as a bank,
of which the debt, created by the loan and the interest upon it,

At. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 143

were the sole fund. The subsequent augmentations of its capital,
which now amounts to between eleven and twelve millions of
pounds sterling, have been of the same nature.

The confining of the right of the bank to contract debts to
the amount of its capital, is an important precaution, which is
not to be found in the constitution of the Bank of North Ame-
rica, and which, while the fund consists wholly of coin, would
be a restriction attended with inconveniences, but would be free
from any, if the composition of it should be such as is now pro-
posed. The restriction exists in the establishment of the Bank
of England, and, as a source of security, is worthy of imitation.
The consequences of exceeding the limit, there, is, that each
stockholder is liable for the excess, in proportion to his interest
in the bank. When it is considered that the directors owe their
appointments to the choice of the stockholders, a responsibility
of this kind, on the part of the latter, does not appear unreason-
able ; but, on the other hand, it may be deemed a hardship upon
those who may have dissented from, the choice. And there are
many among us, whom it might perhaps discourage from becom-
ing concerned in the institution. These reasons have induced
the placing of the responsibility upon the directors by whom the
limit prescribed should be transgressed.

The interdiction of loans on account of the United States, or
of any particular State, beyond the moderate sum specified, or
of any foreign Power, will serve as a barrier to Executive en-
croachments, and to combinations inauspicious to the safety, or
contrary to the policy of the Union.

The limitation of the rate of interest is dictated by the con-
sideration, that different rates prevail in different parts of the
Union ; and as the operations of the bank may extend through
the whole, some rule seems to be necessary. There is room for
a question, whether the limitation ought not rather to be to five
than to six per cent., as proposed. It may, with safety, be
taken for granted, that the former rate would }delcl an ample
dividend, perhaps as much as the latter, by the extension which
it would give to business. The natural effect of low interest is
to increase trade and industry ; because undertakings of every

144 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

kind can be prosecuted with greater advantage. This is a truth
generally admitted ; but it is requisite to have analyzed the sub-
ject in all its relations, to be able to form a just conception of the
extent of that effect. Such an analysis cannot but satisfy an in-
telligent mind, that the difference of one per cent, in the rate
at which money may be had, is often capable of making an
essential change for the better in the situation of any country or
place.

Every thing, therefore, which tends to lower the rate of in-
terest, is peculiarly Avorthy of the cares of legislators. And
though laws, which violently sink the legal rate of interest
greatly below the market level, are not to be commended, be-
cause they are not calculated to answer their aim, yet, whatever
has a tendency to effect a reduction, without violence to the
natural course of things, ought to be attended to and pursued.
Banks are among the means most proper to accomplish this end ;
and the moderation of the rate at which their discounts are
made, is a material ingredient towards it ; with which their own
interest, viewed on an enlarged and permanent scale, does not
appear to clash.

But, as the most obvious ideas are apt to have greater force
than those which depend on complex and remote combinations,
there would be danger that the persons whose funds must consti-
tute the stock of the bank, would be diffident of the sufficiency
of the profits to be expected, if the rate of loans and discounts
were to be placed below the points to which they have been ac-
customed, and might, on this account, be indisposed to embark-
ing in the plan. There is, it is true, one reflection, which, in
regard to men, actively engaged in trade, ought to be a security
against this danger; it is this: That the accommodations which
they might derive in the way of their business, at a low rate,
would more than indemnify them for any difference in the divi-
dend, supposing even that some diminution of it were to be the
consequence. But, upon the whole, the hazard of contrary rea-
soning among the mass of moneyed men, is a powerful argument
against the experiment. The institutions of the kind already
existing, add to the difficulty of making it. Mature reflection

jEt. 33.] NATIONAL BANK. 145

and a large capital, may, of themselves, lead to the desired
end.

The last thing which requires any explanatory remark, is,
the authority proposed to be given to the President, to subscribe
the amount of two millions of dollars on account of the public.
The main design of this is, to enlarge the specie fund of the
bank, and to enable it to give a more early extension to its ope-
rations. Though it is proposed to borrow with one hand what
is lent with the other, yet the disbursement of what is borrowed,-
will be progressive, and bank notes may be thrown into circula-
tion, instead of the gold and silver. Besides, there is to be an
annual reimbursement of a part of the sum borrowed, which
will finally operate as an actual investment of so much specie. In
addition to the inducements to this measure, which results from
the general interest of the Government to enlarge the sphere of
the utility of the bank, there is this more particular considera-
tion, to wit : That, as far as the dividend on the stock shall ex-
ceed the interest paid on the loan, there is a positive profit.

The Secretary begs leave to conclude with this general obser-
vation : That, if the Bank of North America shall come forward
with any propositions which have for their objects, the engraft-
ing upon that institution, the characteristics which shall appear
to the Legislature necessary to the due extent and safety of a
National Bank, there are, in his judgment, weighty inducements
to giving every reasonable facility to the measure. Not only the
pretensions of that institution, from its original relation to the
Government of the United States, and from the services it has
rendered, are such as to claim a disposition favorable to it, if
those who are interested in it are willing, on their part, to place it
on a footing satisfactory to the Government, and equal to the pur-
poses of a bank of the United States, but its co-operation would
materially accelerate the accomplishment of the great object,
and the collision, which might otherwise arise, might, in a vari-
ety of ways, prove equally disagreeable and injurious. The in-
corporation or union here contemplated, may be effected in dif-
ferent modes, under the auspices of an act of the United
States, if it shall be desired by the Bank of North America,

146 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 34.

upon terms which shall appear expedient to the Govern-
ment.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

ESTIMATES FOR 1791.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 6, 1701.

Treasury Department, January G. 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury respectfully reports to the House
of Representatives, the estimates herewith transmitted, Nos. 1,
2, 3, and 4.

The first relating to the civil list, or the expendi-
ture for the support of Government, during the
year 1791, amounting to .... $299,276 53

The second exhibiting some additional objects of
expenditure, arising out of the laws for collect-
ing the duties on imports and tonnage, for
making provision for the public debt, for the
maintenance and support of light-houses, &c,
and for executing certain surveys of land,
amounting to 50,756 07

The third, relating to the Department
of War, showing the stated expen-
diture of that department for a year, 202,179 46

The probable extra expense of the late

expedition under General Harmar, 100,000 00

The amount of military pensions for

a year, 87,463 60.6

Pay and subsistence to sundry offices,

for which no appropriation has yet

been made, 556 48

390,199 54.6

Amounting together to $740,232 14.6

yET. 34.] ESTIMATES. 14*7

As appears by No. 4, which contains a summary of the three
preceding ones; and shows in one view the total sum of, as
above stated, for which an appropriation is requisite.

The funds now at the disposal of the Legislature for this pur-
pose, are the 600,000 dollars reserved annually out of the duties
on imports and tonnage, by the act making provision for the
debt of the United States, for the support of the Government
thereof, and certain surplusses arising on former appropriations
for the current service, in consequence of over estimates, and
some other circumstances.

It is probable, that these two sources will be equal to the
object ; but, as the amount of those surplusses is not yet definitely
ascertained, it appears to be expedient that the appropriation
should embrace some additional resource.

The product, during this year, of whatever duties may be
laid in the present session, as a further provision for the public
debt, may with propriety be resorted to for the purpose ; as the
interest, which will be payable on the amount of the State debts,
assumed by the United States, will not begin to accrue till after
the end of the year ; and it is calculated that the product of the
duties, within each year, will be adequate to the payment of the
interest of such year.

The Secretary begs leave to remind the House of Representa-
tives, that no provision has been made for payment of interest to
the foreign officers, beyond the year 1788. In his report of the.
5th day of August last, he submitted the expediency of discharg-
ing the principal of their debt, which bears an interest of six per
centum per annum, payable in Paris : but the advanced period
of the session prevented a discussion of the matter. The propri-
ety of this measure, and the necessity of a provision for the inter-
est, are again humbly submitted.

The Secretary also begs leave to state to the House, that repre-
sentations have been made to him, by several of the Commission-
ers of Loans, respecting the extraordinary expense occasioned to
them, in the first instance, in the execution of the act making
provision for the debt of the United States, and the inadequate-
ness of their compensation. Considerations relative to the public

148 HAMILTON'S WORKS. (JEt. 34.

service, as well as the officers themselves, require an acknow-
ledgment that these representations are not without foundation.

The quantity and pressure of business which arise in receiv-
ing subscriptions, in liquidating and cancelling the old certifi-
cates, and issuing new ones in their stead ; in counting and exam-
ining the old bills of credit ; in making entries and furnishing
returns to the treasury, necessarily require much additional
clerkship ; the expense of which, united with that of providing
different sets of books, and other stationery in considerable
quantity, must, in some cases, exhaust nearly, if not altogether,
the whole salaries of the officers, and in others so considerable a
part of them, as to leave a very incompetent recompense for the
services to be performed.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

DUTIES ON IMPORTS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 7, 1791.

Treasury Department, January 7, 1791.

Sir:

In addition to the papers transmitted yesterday, I have the
honor to enclose you two abstracts of the duties on imports into
the United States; one exhibiting the sum received from the
commencement of the operation of the impost act, to the 30th of
September, 1789 ; and the other showing, as far as the returns
have been transmitted, the sum received for one year following
that day.

None of the collectors have yet furnished their returns for
the last quarter of the year 1790, for want of time, it is presumed,
to make them up.

I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, sir, your
most obedient and most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
Hon. F. A. Muhlenberg, Speaker of the House of Representatives.

iET. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 149

ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 28, 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury having attentively considered
the subject referred to him by the order of the House of Kepre-
sentatives, of the fifteenth of April last, relatively to the estab-
lishment of a Mint, most respectfully submits the result of his
inquiries and reflections.

A plan for an establishment of this nature, involves a great
variety of considerations — intricate, nice, and important. The
general state of debtor and creditor ; all the relations and conse-
quences of price ; the essential interests of trade and industry ;
the value of all property ; the whole income, both of the state
and of individuals, are liable to be sensibly influenced, benefi-
cially or otherwise, by the judicious or injudicious regulation of
this interesting object.

It is one, likewise, not more necessary than difficult to be
rightly adjusted ; one which has frequently occupied the reflec-
tions and researches of politicians, without having harmonized
their opinions on some of the most important of the principles
which enter into its discussion. Accordingly, different systems
continue to be advocated, and the systems of different nations
after much investigation, continue to differ from each other.

But, if a right adjustment of the matter be truly of such
nicety and difficulty, a question naturally arises, whether it may
not be most advisable to leave things, in this respect, in the state
in which they are ? Why, might it be asked, since they have
so long proceeded in a train which has caused no general sensa-
tion of inconvenience, should alterations be attempted, the pre-
cise effect of which cannot with certainty be calculated ?

The answer to this question is not perplexing. The immense
disorder which actually reigns in so delicate and important a
concern, and the still greater disorder which is every moment
possible, call loudly for a reform. The dollar originally contem-

150 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

plated in the money transactions of this country, by successive
diminutions of its weight and fineness, has sustained a depreci-
ation of five per cent., and yet the new dollar has a currency, in
all payments in place of the old, with scarcely any attention to
the difference between them. The operation of this in depreci-
ating the value of property, depending upon past contracts ; and,
(as far as inattention to the alteration in the coin may be sup-
posed to leave prices stationary) of all other property, is appa-
rent. Nor can it require argument to prove that a nation ought
not to suffer the value of the property of its citizens to fluctuate
with the fluctuations of a foreign mint, and to change with the
changes in the regulations of a foreign sovereign. This, never-
theless, is the condition of one which, having no coins of its own,
adopts with implicit confidence those of other countries.

The unequal values allowed in different parts of the Union
to coins of the same intrinsic worth ; the defective species of
them which embarrass the circulation of some of the States ; and
the dissimilarity in their several moneys of account ; are incon-
veniencies, which, if not to be ascribed to the want of a national
coinage, will at least be most effectually remedied by the estab-
lishment of one — a measure that will, at the same time, give
additional security against impositions by counterfeit as well as
by base currencies.

It was with great reason, therefore, that the attention of
Congress, under the late Confederation, was repeatedly drawn to
the establishment of a mint ; and it is with equal reason that the
subject has been resumed, now that the favorable change which
has taken place in the situation of public affairs, admits of its
being carried into execution.

But, though the difficulty of devising a proper establishment
ought not to deter from undertaking so necessary a work, yet it
cannot but inspire diffidence in one, whose duty it is made to
propose a plan for the purpose, and may perhaps be permitted
to be relied upon as some excuse for any errors which may be
chargeable upon it, or for any deviations from sounder princi-
ples, which may have been suggested by others, or even in part
acted upon by the former Government of the United States.

^Et. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 151

In order to a right judgment of what ought to be done, the
following particulars require to be discussed.

1st. What ought to be the nature of the money unit of the
United States?

2d! What the proportion between gold and silver, if coins of
both metals are to be established ?

3d. What the proportion and composition of alloy in each
kind ?

4th. Whether the expense of coinage shall be defrayed by
the Government, or out of the material itself?

5th. What shall be the number, denominations, sizes, and
devices of the coins ?

6th. Whether foreign coins shall be permitted to be current
or not ; if the former, at what rate, and for what period ?

A prerequisite to determining with propriety, what ought to
be the money unit of the United States, is to endeavor to form
as accurate an idea as the nature of the case will admit, of what
it actually is. The pound, though of various value, is the unit
in the money account of all the States. But it is not equally easy
to pronounce what is to be considered as the unit in the coins.
There being no formal regulation on the point (the resolutions of
Congress of the 6th July, 1785 and 8th of August, 1786, having
never yet been carried into operation), it can only be inferred
from usage or practice. The manner of adjusting foreign ex-
changes, would seem to indicate the dollar as best entitled to
that character. In these, the old piaster of Spain, or old Seville
piece of eight reals, of the value of four shillings and six-pence
sterling, is evidently contemplated. The computed par between
Great Britain and Pennsylvania, will serve as an example. Ac-
cording to that, one hundred pounds sterling is equal to one hun-
dred and sixty-six pounds and two-thirds of a pound, Pennsylva-
nia currency ; which corresponds with the proportion between 4s.
id sterling, and 7s. 6d. the current value of the dollar in that
State, by invariable usage. And, as far as the information of
the Secretary goes, the same comparison holds in the other
States.

But this circumstance in favor of the dollar, loses much of its

152 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 34.

weight from two considerations. That species of coin has never
had any settled or standard value, according to weight or fine-
ness, but has been permitted to circulate by tale, without regard
to either, very much as a mere money of convenience, while gold
has had a fixed price by weight, and with an eye to its fineness.
This greater stability of value of the gold coins is an argument
of force for regarding the money unit as having been hitherto
virtually attached to gold, rather than to silver.

Twenty-four grains and six-eighths of a grain of fine gold
have corresponded with the nominal value of the dollar in the
several States, without regard to the successive diminutions of
its intrinsic worth.

But, if the dollar should, notwithstanding, be supposed to
have the best title to being considered as the present unit in the
coins, it would remain to determine what kind of dollar ought
to be understood ; or, in other words, what precise quantity of
fine silver.

The old piaster of Spain, which appears to have regulated
our foreign exchanges, weighed 17 dwt. 12 grains, and contained
386 grains and 15 mites of fine silver. But this piece has been
long since out of circulation. The dollars now in common cur-
rency, are of recent date, and much inferior to that, both in
weight and fineness. The average weight of them, upon differ-
ent trials, in large masses, has been found to be 17 dwt. 8 grains.
Their fineness is less precisely ascertained ; the results of various
assays, made by different persons, under the direction of the late
Superintendent of the Finances, and of the Secretary, being as
various as the assays themselves. The difference between their
extremes is not less than 24 grains in a dollar of the same weight
and age ; which is too much for any probable differences in the
pieces. It is rather to be presumed, that a degree of inaccuracy
has been occasioned by the want of proper apparatus, and, in
general, of practice. The experiment which appears to have
the best pretensions to exactness would make the new dollar to
contain 370 grains and 933 thousandth parts of a grain of pure
silver.

According to an authority on which the Secretary places reli-

JEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 153

ance, the Standard of Spain, for its silver coin, in the year 1761,
was 261 parts fine, and 27 parts alloy ; at which proportion, a
dollar of 17 dwt. 8 grains, would consist of 377 grains of fine
silver, and 39 grains of alloy. But there is no question that this
standard has been since altered considerably for the worse : to
what precise point, is not as well ascertained as could be wished ;
but, from a computation of the value of dollars in the markets
both of Amsterdam and London (a criterion which cannot mate-
rially mislead), the new dollar appears to contain about 368
grains of fine silver, and that which immediately preceded it
about 374 grains.

In this state of things, there is some difficulty in defining the
dollar which is to be understood as constituting the present
money unit, on the supposition of its being most applicable to
that species of coin. The old Seville piece of 386 grains and 15
mites fine, comports best with the computations of foreign ex-
changes, and with the more ancient contracts respecting landed
property ; but far the greater number of contracts still in opera-
tion concerning that kind of property, and all those of a merely
personal nature, now in force, must be referred to a dollar of a
different kind. The actual dollar, at the time of contracting, is
the only one which can be supposed to have been intended ; and
it has been seen, that, as long ago as the year 1761, there had
been a material degradation of the standard. And even in re-
gard to the more ancient contracts, no person has ever had any
idea of a scruple about receiving the dollar of the day as a full
equivalent for the nominal sum which the dollar originally im-
ported.

A recurrence, therefore, to the ancient dollar, would be in the
greatest number of cases an innovation in fact, and in all, an
innovation, in respect to opinion. The actual dollar in common
circulation, has evidently a much better claim to be regarded as
the actual money unit.

The mean intrinsic value of the different kinds of known dol-
lars, has been intimated as affording the proper criterion. But,
when it is recolleeted that the more ancient and more valuable
ones are not now to be met with at all in circulation, and that

c 11

154 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

the mass of those generally current, is composed of the newest
and most inferior kinds, it will be perceived that even an equa-
tion of that nature, would be a considerable innovation upon the
real present state of things ; which it will certainly be prudent
to approach, as far as may be consistent with the permanent
order designed to be introduced.

An additional reason for considering the prevailing dollar as
the standard of the present money unit, rather than the ancient
one, is, that it will not only be conformable to the true existing
proportion between the two metals in this country, but will be
more conformable to that which obtains in the commercial world
generally.

The difference established by custom in the United States be-
tween coined gold and coined silver, has been stated upon an-
other occasion, to be nearly as 1 to 15.6. This, if truly the case,
would imply that gold was extremely overvalued in the United
States : for the highest actual proportion in any part of Europe,
very little, if at all, exceeds 1 to 15 ; and the average proportion
throughout Europe, is probably not more than about 1 to 14f.
But that statement has proceeded upon the idea of the ancient
dollar. One pennyweight of gold of twenty-two carats fine, at
6s. 8d, and the old Seville piece of 386 grains and 15 mites of
pure silver, at 7s. 6a1., furnish the exact ratio of 1 to 15.6262.
But this does not coincide with the real difference between the
metals in our market, or, which is with us the same thing, in our
currency. To determine this, the quantity of fine silver in the
general mass of the dollars now in circulation, must afford the
rule. Taking the rate of the late dollar of 374 grains, the pro-
portion would be as 1 to 15.11. Taking the rate of the newest
dollar, the proportion would then be as 1 to 14.87. The mean
of the two would give the proportion of 1 to 15 very nearly ;
less than the legal proportions in the coins of Great Britain,
which is as 1 to 15.2 ; but somewhat more than the actual or
market proportion, which is not quite 1 to 15.

The preceding view of the subject does not indeed afford a
precise or certain definition of the present unit in the coins, but
it furnishes data which will serve as guides in the progress of the

Mi. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 155

investigation. It ascertains, at least, that the sum in the money
of account of each State, corresponding with the nominal value
of the dollar in such State, corresponds also with 21 grains and
f of a grain, of fine gold ; and with something between 368 and
374 grains of fine silver.

The next inquiry towards a right determination of what
ought to be the future money unit of the United States, turns
upon these questions : Whether it ought to be peculiarly attached
to either of the metals, in preference to the other, or not ; and,
if to either, to which of them ?

The suggestions and proceedings, hitherto, have had for ob-
ject, the annexing of it emphatically to the silver dollar. A re-
solution of Congress, of the 6th of July, 1785, declares that the
money unit of the United States shall be a dollar ; and another
resolution of the 8th of August, 1786, fixes that dollar at 375
grains and 61 hundredths of a grain of fine silver. The same
resolution, however, determines, that there shall also be two gold
coins, one of 216 grains and 268 parts of a grain of pure gold,
equal to ten dollars, and the other of half that quantity of pure
gold, equal to five dollars: And it is not explained, whether
either of the two species of coins, of gold or silver, shall have
any greater legality in payments, than the other. Yet it would
seem that a preference in this particular is necessary to execute
the idea of attaching the unit exclusively to one kind. If each
of them be as valid as the other, in payments to any amount, it
is not obvious in what effectual sense either of them can be
deemed the money unit, rather than the other.

If the general declaration, that the dollar shall be the money
unit of the United States, could be understood to give it a supe-
rior legality in payments, the institution of coins of gold, and
the declaration that each of them shall be equal to a certain num-
ber of dollars, would appear to destroy that inference : And the
circumstance of making the dollar the unit in the money of ac-
count, seems to be rather matter of form than of substance.

Contrary to the ideas which have heretofore prevailed, in
the suggestions concerning a coinage for the United States,
though not without much hesitation, arising from a deference for

156 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

those ideas, the Secretary is, upon the whole, strongly inclined
to the opinion, that a preference ought to be given to neither of
the metals, for the money unit. Perhaps, if either were to be
preferred, it ought to be gold rather than silver.

The reasons are these :

The inducement to such a preference is to render the unit as
little variable as possible ; because on this depends the steady
value of all contracts, and, in a certain sense, of all other pro-
perty. And, it is truly observed, that if the unit'.belong indis-
criminately to both the metals, it is subject to all the fluctuations
that happen in the relative value which they bear to each other.
But the same reason would lead to annexing it to that particular
one, which is itself the least liable to variation, if there be, in
this respect, any discernible difference between the two.

Gold may, perhaps, in certain senses, be said to have greater
stability than silver : as, being of superior value, less liberties
have been taken with it, in the regulations of different countries.
Its standard has remained more uniform, and it has in other res-
pects, undergone fewer changes : as, being not so much an article
of merchandise, owing to the use made of silver in the trade
with the East Indies and China, it is less liable to be influenced
by circumstances of commercial demand. And if, reasoning by
analogy, it could be affirmed, that there is a physical probability
of greater proportional increase in the quantity of silver than in
that of gold, it would afford an additional reason for calculating
on greater steadiness in the value of the latter.

As long as gold, either from its intrinsic superiority as a
metal, from its greater rarity, or from the prejudices of mankind,
retains so considerable a pre-eminence in value over silver, as it
has hitherto had, a natural consequence of this seems to be that
its condition will be more stationary. The revolutions, there-
fore, which may take place in the comparative value of gold and
silver, will be changes in the state of the latter, rather than in
that of the former.

If there should be an appearance of too much abstraction in
any of these ideas, it may be remarked, that the first and most
simple impressions do not naturally incline to giving a preference
to the inferior or least valuable of the two metals.

Mt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 157

It is sometimes observed, that silver ought to be encouraged
rather than gold, as being more conducive to the extension of
bank circulation, from the greater difficulty and inconvenience
which its greater bulk, compared with its value, occasions in the
transportation of it. But bank circulation is desirable, rather as
an auxiliary to, than as a substitute for that of the precious metals,
and ought to be left to its natural course. Artificial expedients
to extend it, by opposing obstacles to the other, are, at least, not
recommended by any very obvious advantages. And, in gene-
ral, it is the safest rule to regulate every particular institution or
object, according to the principles which, in relation to itself, ap-
pear the most sound. In addition to this, it may be observed,
that the inconvenience of transporting either of the metals, is
sufficiently great to induce a preference of bank paper, when-
ever it can be made to answer the purpose equally well.

But, upon the whole, it seems to be most advisable, as has
been observed, not to attach the unit exclusively to either of the
metals; because this cannot be done effectually, without destroy-
ing the office and character of one of them as money, and reduc-
ing it to the situation of a mere merchandise ; which, accordingly,
at different times, has been proposed from different and very re-
spectable quarters ; but which would, probably, be a greater evil
than occasional variations in the unit, from the fluctuations in
the relative value of the metals ; especially, if care be taken to
regulate the proportion between them, with an eye to their
average commercial value.

To annul the use of either of the metals, as money, is to
abridge the quantity of circulating medium, and is liable to all
the objections which arise from a comparison of the benefits of a
full, with the evils of a scanty circulation.

It is not a satisfactory answer to say, that none but the
favored metal would, in this case, find its way into the country,
as in that all balances must be paid. The practicability of this
would, in some measure, depend on the abundance or scarcity of
it in the country paying. Where there was but little, it either
would not be procurable at all, or it would cost a premium to
obtain it ; which, in every case of a competition with others, in

158 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

a branch of trade, would constitute a deduction from the profits of
the party receiving. Perhaps, too, the embarrassments which such
a circumstance might sometimes create, in the pecuniary liquida-
tion of balances, might lead to additional efforts to find a substi-
tute in commodities, and might so far impede the introduction of
the metals. Neither could the exclusion of either of them be
deemed, in other respects, favorable to commerce. It is often,
in the course of trade, as desirable to possess the kind of money,
as the kind of commodities best adapted to a foreign market.

It seems, however, most probable, that the chief, if not the
sole effect of such a regulation, would be to diminish the utility
of one of the metals. It could hardly prove an obstacle to the
introduction of that which was excluded in the natural course of
trade ; because it would always command a ready sale, for the
purpose of exportation to foreign markets. But such an effect,
if the only one, is not to be regarded as a trivial inconveni-
ence.

If, then, the unit ought not to be attached exclusively to either
of the metals, the proportion which ought to subsist between
them, in the coins, becomes a preliminary inquiry, in order to
its proper adjustment. This proportion appears to be, in several
views, of no inconsiderable moment.

One consequence of overvaluing either metal, in respect to
the other, is the banishment of that which is undervalued. If
two countries are supposed, in one of which, the proportion of
gold to silver is as 1 to 16, in the other as 1 to 15, gold being
worth more, silver less, in one than in the other, it is manifest,
that, in their reciprocal payments, each will select that species
which it values least, to pay to the other, where it is valued
most. Besides this, the dealers in money will, from the same
cause, often find a profitable traffic in an exchange of the metals
between the two countries. And hence it would come to pass,
if other things were equal, that the greatest part of the gold
would be collected in one, and the greatest part of the silver
in the other. The course of trade might, in some degree,
counteract +Vo, tendency of the difference in the legal propor-
tions, by th market value; but this is so far and so often

Ms. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 159

influenced by the legal rates, that it does not prevent their
producing the effect which is inferred. Facts, too, verify the
inference : In Spain and England, where gold is rated higher
than in other parts of Europe, there is a scarcity of silver;
while it is found to abound in France and Holland, where it is
rated higher, in proportion to gold, than in the neighboring
nations. And it is continually flowing from Europe to China
and the East Indies, owing to the comparative cheapness of it in
the former, and dearness of it in the latter.

This consequence is deemed by some not very material ; and
there are even persons, who, from a fanciful predilection to gold,
are wiling to invite it, even by a higher price. But general
utility will best be promoted by a due proportion of both metals.
If gold be most convenient in large payments, silver is best
adapted to the more minute and ordinary circulation.

Bat it is to be suspected, that there is another consequence
more serious than the one which has been mentioned. This is
the diminution of the total quantity of specie which a country
would naturally possess.

It is evident that, as often as a country, which overrates
either of the metals, receives a payment in that metal, it gets a
less actual quantity than it ought to do, or than it would do, if
the rate were a just one.

It is also equally evident, that there will be a continual effort
to make payment to it in that species, to which it has annexed
an exaggerated estimation, wherever it is current at a less pro-
portional value. And it would seem to be a very natural effect
of these two causes, not only that the mass of the precious
metals in the country in question, would consist chiefly of that
kind, to which it had given an extraordinary value, but that it
would be absolutely less, than if they had been duly propor-
tioned to each other.

A conclusion of this sort, however, is to be drawn with great
caution. In such matters, there are always some local and many
other particular circumstances, which qualify and vary the opera-
tion of general principles, even where they are just ; and there
are endless combinations, very difficult to be analyzed, which

160 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

often render principles, that have the most plausible pretensions,
unsound and delusive.

There ought, for instance, according to those which have
been stated, to have been formerly a greater quantity of gold in
proportion to silver in the United States, than there has been ;
because the actual value of gold in this country, compared with
silver, was perhaps higher than in any other. But our situation
with regard to the West Indian islands, into some of which
there is a large influx of silver directly from the mines of South
America, occasions an extraordinary supply of that metal, and
consequently a greater proportion of it in our circulation, than
might have been expected from its relative value.

What influence the proportion under consideration may have
upon the state of prices, and how far this may counteract its
tendency to increase or lessen the quantity of the metals, are
points not easy to be developed ; and yet they are very
necessary to an accurate judgment of the true operation of the
thing.

But, however impossible it may be to pronounce with
certainty, that the possession of a less quantity of specie is a
consequence of overvaluing either of the metals, there is enough
of probability in the considerations which seem to indicate it, to
form an argument of weight against such overvaluation.

A third ill consequence resulting from it is, a greater and
more frequent disturbance of the state of the money unit, by a
greater and more frequent diversity between the legal and
market proportions of the metals. This has not hitherto been
experienced in the United States, but it has been experienced
elsewhere ; and from its not having been felt by us hitherto, it
does not follow that this will not be the case hereafter, when our
commerce shall have attained a maturity which will place it
under the influence of more fixed principles.

In establishing a proportion between the metals, there seems
to be an option of one of two things —

To approach, as nearly as can be ascertained, the mean or
average proportion, in what may be called the commercial
world ; or,

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 161

To retain that which now exists in the United States. As
far as these happen to coincide, they will render the course to be
pursued more plain and more certain.

To ascertain the first, with precision, would require bitter
materials than are possessed, or than could be obtained, without
an inconvenient delay.

Sir Isaac Newton, in a representation to the treasury of Great
Britain, in the year 1717, after stating the particular proportions
in the different countries of Europe, concludes thus : — " By the
course of trade and exchange between nation and nation, in all
Europe, fine gold is to fine silver as 14f- or 15 to 1."

But however accurate and decisive this authority may be
deemed, in relation to the period to which it applies, it cannot
be taken, at the distance of more than seventy years, as a rule
for determining the existing proportion. Alterations have been
since made, in the regulations of their coins, by several nations ;
which, as well as the course of trade, have an influence upon the
market values. Nevertheless, there is reason to believe, that the
state of the matter, as represented by Sir Isaac Newton, is not
very remote from its actual state.

In Holland, the greatest money market of Europe, gold was
to silver, in December, 1789, as 1 to 14.88; and in that of
London, it has been, for some time past, but little different,
approaching, perhaps, something nearer 1 to 15.

It has been seen that the existing proportion between the
two metals, in this country, is about as 1 to 15.

It is fortunate, in this respect, that the innovations of the
Spanish mint have imperceptibly introduced a proportion so
analogous as this is, to that which prevails among the principal
commercial nations ; as it greatly facilitates a proper regulation
of the matter.

This proportion of 1 to 15 is recommended by the particular
situation of our trade, as being very nearly that which obtains
in the market of Great Britain, to which nation our specie is
principally exported. A lower rate for either of the metals, in
our market, than in hers, might not only afford a motive the
more, in certain cases, to remit in specie rather than in commo-

162 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

dities ; but it might, in some others, cause us to pay a greater
quantity of it for a given sum, than we should otherwise do. If
the effect should rather be to occasion a premium to be given
for the metal which was underrated, this would obviate those
disadvantages, but it would involve another — a customary differ-
ence between the market and legal proportions, which would
amount to a species of disorder in the national coinage.

Looking forward to the payments of interest hereafter to be
made to Holland, the same proportion does not appear ineligible.
The present legal proportion in the coins of Holland is stated to
be 1 to 14--*$. That of the market varies somewhat, at different
times, but seldom very widely from this point.

There can hardly be a better rule in any country, for the
legal, than the market proportion, if this can be supposed to
have been produced by the free and steady course of commercial
principles. The presumption, in such case, is, that each metal
finds its true level, according to its intrinsic utility, in the gen-
eral system of money operations.

But it must be admitted, that this argument, in favor of con-
tinuing the existing proportion, is not applicable to the state of
the coins with us. There have been too many artificial and
heterogeneous ingredients, too much want of order in the pecu-
niary transactions of this country, to authorize the attributing
the effects which have appeared to the regular operations of
commerce. A proof of this is to be drawn from the alterations
which have happened in the proportion between the metals
merely by the successive degradations of the dollar, in conse-
quence of the mutability of a foreign mint. The value of gold
to silver appears to have declined wholly from this cause, from
15 1\ to about 15 to 1. Yet, as this last proportion, however
produced, coincides so nearly with what may be deemed the
commercial average, it may be supposed to furnish as good a
rule as can be pursued.

The only question seems to be, whether the value of gold
ought not to be a little lowered to bring it to a more exact level
with the two markets which have been mentioned. But as the
ratio of 1 to 15 is so nearly conformable to the state of those

Mr. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 163

markets, and best agrees with that of our own, it will probably
be found the most eligible. If the market of Spain continues to
give a higher value to gold (as it has done in time past) than
that which is recommended, there may be some advantage in a
middle station.

A further preliminary to the adjustment of the future money
unit, is, to determine what shall be the proportion and composi-
tion of alloy in each species of the coins.

The first, by the resolution of the 8th of August, 1786, before
referred to, is regulated at one-twelfth, or in other words, at 1
part alloy to 11 parts fine, whether gold or silver; which appears
to be a convenient rule ; unless there should be some collateral
consideration which may dictate a departure from it. Its corre-
spondency, in regard to both metals, is a recommendation of it,
because a difference could answer no purpose of pecuniary or
commercial utility, and uniformity is favorable to order.

This ratio, as it regards gold, coincides with the proportion,
real or professed, in the coins of Portugal, England, France, and
Spain. In those of the two former, it is real, in those of the two
latter, there is a deduction for what is called remedy of weight and
alloy, which is in the nature of an allowance to the master of the
mint for errors and imperfections in the process, rendering the
coin either lighter or baser than it ought to be. The same thing
is known in the theory of the English mint, where £ of a carat is
allowed. But the difference seems to be, that there, it is merely
an occasional indemnity within a certain limit, for real and un-
avoidable errors and imperfections ; whereas, in the practice of
the mints of France and Spain, it appears to amount to a stated
and regular deviation from the nominal standard. Accordingly,
the real standards of France and Spain are something worse
than 22 carats, or 11 parts in 12 fine.

The principal gold coins in Germany, Holland, Sweden,
Denmark, Poland, and Italy, are finer than those of England
and Portugal, in different degrees, from 1 carat and i to 1 carat
and f , which last is within -J- of a carat of pure gold.

There are similar diversities in the standards of the silver
coins of the different countries of Europe. That of Great

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [;Et. 34.

Britain is 222 parts fine, to 18 alloy ; those of the other
European nations vary from that of Great Britain as widely as
from about 17 of the same parts better, to 75 worse.

The principal reasons assigned for the use of alloy, are the
saving of expense in the refining of the metals (which in their
natural state are usually mixed with a portion of the coarser
kinds), and the rendering of them harder as a security against
too great waste by friction or wearing. The first reason, drawn
from the original composition of the metals, is strengthened at
present by the practice of alloying their coins, which has obtain-
ed among so many nations. The reality of the effect to which
the last reason is applicable, has been denied, and experience has
been appealed to, as proving that the more alloyed coins wear
faster than the purer. The true state of this matter may be
worthy of future investigation, though first appearances are in
favor of alloy. In the mean time, the saving of trouble and
expense are sufficient inducements to following those examples
which suppose its expediency. And the same considerations
lead to taking as our models those nations with whom we have
most intercourse, and whose coins are most prevalent in our
circulation. These are Spain, Portugal, England, and France.
The relation which the proposed proportion bears to their gold
coins has been explained. In respect to their silver coins,
it will not be very remote from the mean of their several
standards.

The component ingredients of the alloy in each metal will
also require to be regulated. In silver, copper is the only kind
in use, and it is doubtless the only proper one. In gold, there is
a mixture of silver and copper ; in the English coins consisting
of equal parts ; in the coins of some other countries, varying
from i to § silver.

The reason of this union of silver with copper is this : The
silver counteracts the tendency of the copper to injure the color
or beauty of the coin, by giving it too much redness, or rather a
coppery hue, which a small quantity will produce ; and the cop-
per prevents the too great whiteness which silver alone would
confer. It is apprehended, that there are considerations which

/

JEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 165

may render it prudent to establish, by law, that the proportion
of silver to copper, in the gold coins of the United States, shall
not be more than |, nor less than £ ; vesting a discretion in some
proper place to regulate the matter within those limits, as expe-
rience in the execution may recommend.

A third point remains to be discussed, as a prerequisite to
the determination of the money unit, which is, whether the ex-
pense of coining shall be defrayed by the public, or out of the
material itself; or, as it is sometimes stated, whether coinage
shall be free, or shall be subject to a duty or imposition ? This
forms, perhaps, one of the nicest questions in the doctrine of
money.

The practice of different nations is dissimilar in this particu-
lar. In England, coinage is said to be entirely free : the mint
price of the metals in bullion, being the same with the value of
them in coin. In France, there is a duty, which has been, if it
is not now, eight per cent. In Holland, there is a difference be-
tween the mint price and the value in the coins, which has been
computed at .96, or something less than one per cent, upon gold;
at 1.48, or something less than one and a half per cent, upon sil-
ver. The resolution of the 8th of August, 1786, proceeds upon
the idea of a deduction of half per cent, from gold, and of two
per cent, from silver, as an indemnification for the expense of
coining. This is inferred from a report of the late Board of
Treasury, upon which that resolution appears to have been
founded.

Upon the supposition that the expense of coinage ought to be
defrayed out of the metals, there are two ways in which it may
be effected : one by a reduction of the quantity of fine gold and
silver in the coins, the other by establishing a difference between
the value of those metals in the coins, and the mint price of
them in bullion.

The first method appears to the Secretary inadmissible. He
is unable to distinguish an operation of this sort, from that of
raising the denomination of the coin — a measure which has been
disapproved by the wisest men of the nations in which it has
been practised, and condemned by the rest of the world. To

166 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

declare that a less weight of gold or silver shall pass for the same
sum, which before represented a greater weight, or to ordain that
the same weight shall pass for a greater sum, are things substan-
tially of one nature. The consequence of either of them, if the
change can be realized, is to degrade the money unit ; obliging
creditors to receive less than their just dues, and depreciating
property of every kind. For it is manifest, that every thing
would, in this case, be represented by a less quantity of gold and
silver than before.

It is sometimes observed, on this head, that, though any arti-
cle of property might, in facty be represented by a less actual
quantity of pure metal, it would nevertheless be represented by
something of the same intrinsic value. Every fabric, it is re-
marked, is worth intrinsically the price of the raw material and
the expense of fabrication ; a truth not less applicable to a piece
of coin than to a yard of cloth.

This position, well founded in itself, is here misapplied. It
supposes, that the coins now in circulation are to be considered
as bullion, or, in other words, as raw material. But the fact is,
that the adoption of them as money, has caused them to become
the fabric ; it has invested them with the character and office of
coins, and has given them a sanction and efficacy, equivalent to
that of the stamp of the sovereign. The prices of all our com-
modities, at home and abroad, and of all foreign commodities in
our markets, have found their level in conformity to this princi-
ple. The foreign coins may be divested of the privilege they
have hitherto been permitted to enjoy, and may of course be left
to find their value in the market as a raw material. But the
quantity of gold and silver in the national coins, corresponding
with a given sum, cannot be made less than heretofore, without
disturbing the balance of intrinsic value, and making every acre
of land, as well as every bushel of wheat, of less actual worth
than in time past. If the United States were isolated, and cut
off from all intercourse with the rest of mankind, this reasoning
would not be equally conclusive. But it appears decisive, when
considered with a view to the relations which commerce has cre-
ated between us and other countries.

Mt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 1G7

It is, however, not improbable, that the effect meditated would
be defeated by a rise of prices proportioned to the diminution of
the intrinsic value of the coins. This might be looked for in
every enlightened commercial country ; but, perhaps, in none
with greater certainty than in this ; because, in none, are men
less liable to be the dupes of sounds ; in none, has authority so
little resource for substituting names for things.

A general revolution in prices, though only nominally, and
in appearance, could not fail to distract the ideas of the commu-
nity, and would be apt to breed discontents as well among all
those who live on the income of their money, as among the
poorer classes of the people, to whom the necessaries of life
would seem to have become dearer. In the confusion of such a
state of things, ideas of value would not improbably adhere to
the old coins, which, from that circumstance, instead of feeling
the effect of the loss of their privilege as money, would, perhaps,
bear a price in the market, relatively to the new ones, in exact
proportion to weight. The frequency of the demand for the
metals to pay foreign balances, would contribute to this effect.

Among the evils attendant on such an operation, are these :
creditors, both of the public and of individuals, would lose a
part of their property ; public and private credit would receive
a wound ; the effective revenues of the Government would be
diminished. There is scarcely any point, in the economy of na-
tional affairs, of greater moment than the uniform preservation
of the intrinsic value of the money unit. On this, the security
and steady value of property essentially depend.

The second method, therefore, of defraying the expense of
the coinage out of the metals, is greatly to be preferred to the
other. This is to let the same sum of money continue to repre-
sent in the new coins exactly the same quantity of gold and sil-
ver as it does in those now current — to allow at the mint such a
price only for those metals as will admit of profit just sufficient
to satisfy the expense of coinage ; to abolish the legal currency
of the foreign coins, both in public and private payments ; and,
of course, to leave the superior utility of the national coins for
domestic purposes, to operate the difference of market value,

168 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

which is necessary to induce the bringing of bullion to the mint.
In this case, all property and labor will still be represented by
the same quantity of gold and silver as formerly ; and the only
change which will be wrought, will consist in annexing the office
of money exclusively to the national coins ; consequently, with-
drawing it from those of foreign countries, and suffering them to
become, as they ought to be, mere articles of merchandise.

The arguments in favor of a regulation of this kind are, first :
That the want of it is a cause of extra expense ; there being,
then, no motive of individual interest to distinguish between the
national coins and bullion, they are, it is alleged, indiscriminately
melted down for domestic manufactures, and exported for the
purposes of foreign trade : and it is added, that when the coins
become light by wearing, the same quantity of fine gold or sil-
ver bears a higher price in bullion than in the coins ; in which
state of things, the melting down of the coins to be sold as bul-
lion is attended with profit ; and from both causes, the expense
of the mint, or, in other words, the expense of maintaining the
specie capital of the nation, is materially augmented.

Secondly. That the existence of such a regulation promotes
a favorable course of exchange, and benefits trade, not only by
that circumstance, but by obliging foreigners, in certain cases, to
pay dearer for domestic commodities, and to sell their own
cheaper.

As far as relates to the tendency of a free coinage to produce
an increase of expense in the different ways that have been
stated, the argument must be allowed to have foundation, both
in reason and in experience. It describes what has been exem-
plified in Great Britain.

The effect of giving an artificial value to bullion, is not, at
first sight, obvious ; but it actually happened at the period imme-
diately preceding the late reformation in the gold coin of the
country just named. A pound troy in gold bullion, of standard
fineness, was then from 19s. 6d. to 25s. sterling dearer than an
equal weight of guineas, as delivered at the mint. The phe-
nomenon is thus accounted for : The old guineas were more than
two per cent, lighter than their standard weight. This weight,

'

JEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 169

therefore, in bullion, was truly worth two per cent, more than
those guineas. It consequently had, in respect to them, a cor-
respondent rise in the market.

And as guineas were then current by tah, the new ones, as
they issued from the mint, were confounded in circulation with
the old ones ; and by the association, were depreciated below the
intrinsic value, in comparison with bullion. It became of course
a profitable traffic to sell bullion for coin, to select the light pieces,
and re-issue them in currency, and to melt down the heavy ones,
and sell them again as bullion. This practice, besides other incon-
veniences, cost the Government large sums in the renewal of the
coins.

But the remainder of the argument stands upon ground far
more questionable. It depends upon very numerous and very
complex combinations, in which there is infinite latitude for fal-
lacy and error.

The most plausible part of it, is that which relates to the
course of exchange. Experience in France has shown that the
market price of bullion has been influenced by the mint differ-
ence between that and coin ; sometimes to the full extent of the
difference ; and it would seem to be a clear inference, that, when-
ever that difference materially exceeded the charges of remitting
bullion from the country where it existed, to another in which
coinage is free, exchange would be in favor of the former.

If, for instance, the balance of trade between France and
England were at any time equal, their merchants would naturally
have reciprocal payments to make to an equal amount, which, as
usual would be liquidated by means of bills of exchange. If in
this situation the difference between coin and bullion should be,
in the market, as at the mint of France, eight per cent. ; if, also,
the charges of transporting money from France to England,
should not be above two per cent. ; and if exchange should be
at par, it is evident that a profit of six per cent, might be made,
by sending bullion from France to England, and drawing bills
for the amount. One hundred louis d'ors in coin, would pur-
chase the weight of one hundred and eight in bullion ; one hun-
dred of which, remitted to England, would suffice to pay a debt

c 10

170 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

of an equal amount ; and two being paid for the charges of insu-
rance and transportation, there would remain six for the benefit
of the person who should manage the negotiation. But as so
large a profit could not fail to produce competition, the bills, in
consequence of this, would decrease in price, till the profit was
reduced to the minimum of an adequate recompense for the
trouble and risk. And, as the amount of one hundred louis
d'ors in England, might be afforded for ninety-six in France,
with a profit of more than one and a half per cent., bills upon
England might fall, in France, to four per cent, below par ; one
per cent, being a sufficient profit to the exchanger or broker for
the management of the business.

But it is admitted that this advantage is lost, when the balance
of trade is against the nation which imposes the duty in ques-
tion ; because, by increasing the demand for bullion, it brings
this to a par with the coins ; and it is to be suspectedt that where
commercial principles have their free scope, and are well under-
stoo.l, the market difference between the metals in coin and
bullion, will seldom approximate to that of the mint, if the lat-
ter be considerable. It must be not a little difficult to keej) the
money of the world, which can be employed to an equal purpose
in the commerce of the world, in a state of degradation, in com-
parison with the money of a particular country.

This alone would seem sufficient to prevent it : Whenever
the price of coin to bullion, in the market, materially exceeded
the par of the metals, it would become an object to send the
bullion abroad, if not to pay a foreign balance, to be invested in
some other way, in foreign countries, where it bore a superior
value ; an operation by which immense fortunes might be amass-
ed, if it were not that the exportation of the bullion would of
itself restore the intrinsic par. But, as it would naturally have
this effect, the advantage supposed would contain in itself the
principle of its own destruction. As long, however, as the ex-
portation of bullion could be made with profit, which is as long-
as exchange could remain below par, there would be a drain of
the gold and silver of the country.

If any thing can maintain, for a length of time, a material

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 171

difference between the value of the metals in coin and in bullion,
it must be a constant and considerable balance of trade in favor
of the country in which it is maintained. In one situated like
the United States, it would in all probability be a hopeless
attempt. The frequent demand for gold and silver, to pay bal-
ances to foreigners, would tend powerfully to preserve the equi-
librium of intrinsic value.

The prospect is, that it would occasion foreign coins to circu-
late by common consent, nearly at par with the national.

To say that, as far as the effect of lowering exchange is pro-
duced, though it be only occasional and momentary, there is a
benefit the more thrown into the scale of public prosperity, is
not satisfactory. It has been seen, that it may be productive of
one evil, the investment of a part of the national capital in
foreign countries ; which can hardly be beneficial but in a situa-
tion like that of the United Netherlands, where an immense
capital, and a decrease of internal demand, render it necessary to
find employment for money in the wants of other nations ; and,
perhaps on a close examination, other evils may be descried.

One allied to that which has been mentioned is this — taking
France, for the sake of more concise illustration, as the scene.
Whenever it happens that French louis d'ors are sent abroad,,
from whatever cause, if there be a considerable difference be-
tween coin and bullion, in the market of France, it will consti-
tute an advantageous traffic to send back these louis d'ors, and
bring away bullion in lieu of them ; upon all which exchanges,
France must sustain an actual loss of a part of its gold and
silver.

Again, such a difference between coin and bullion may tend
to counteract a favorable balance of trade. Whenever a foreign
merchant is the carrier of his own commodities to France for
sale, he has a strong inducement to bring back specie, instead of
French commodities ; because a return in the latter may afford no
profit, may even be attended with loss ; in the former it will afford
a certain profit. The same principle must be supposed to operate
in the general course of remittances from France to other coun-
tries. The principal question with a merchant, naturally is, in

172 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

what manner can I realize a given sum, with most advantage,
where I wish to place it ? And, in cases in which other commo-
dities are not likely to produce equal profit with bullion, it may
be expected that this will be preferred ; to which the greater cer-
tainty attending the operation must be an additional incitement.
There can hardly be imagined a circumstance less friendly to
trade, than the existence of an extra inducement arising from the
possibility of a profitable speculation upon the articles themselves,
to export from a country its gold and silver, rather than the pro-
ducts of its land and labor.

The other advantages supposed, of obliging foreigners to pay
dearer for domestic commodities, and to sell their own cheaper,
are applied to a situation which includes a favorable balance of
trade. It is understood in this sense — the prices of domestic
commodities (such, at least, as are peculiar to the country), re-
main attached to the denominations of the coins. When a
favorable balance of trade realizes in the market the mint differ-
ence between coin and bullion, foreigners, who must pay in the
latter, are obliged to give more of it for such commodities than
they otherwise would do. Again, the bullion, which is now
obtained at a cheaper rate in the home market, will procure the
same quantity of goods in the foreign market, as before ; which
is said to render foreign commodities cheaper. In this reason-
ing, much fallacy is to be suspected. If it be true, that foreign-
ers pay more for domestic commodities, it must be equally true
that they get more for their own when they bring them them-
selves to market. If peculiar, or other domestic commodities
adhere to the denominations of the coins, no reason occurs why

. foreign commodities of a like character should not do the same
thing ; and, in this case, the foreigner, though he receive only
the same value in coin for his merchandise as formerly, can con-
vert it into a greater quantity of bullion. Whence the nation is
liable to lose more of its gold and silver than if their intrinsic
value in relation to the coins were preserved. And whether the

. gain or the loss will, on the whole, preponderate, would appear to
depend on the comparative proportion of active commerce of the

• one country with the other.

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 173

It is evident, also, that the nation must pay as much gold
and silver as before, for the commodities which it procures
abroad; and whether it obtains this gold and silver cheaper or
not, turns upon the solution of the question just intimated, re-
specting the relative proportion of active commerce between the
two countries.

Besides these considerations, it is admitted in the reasoning,
that the advantages supposed, which depend on a favorable
balance of trade, have a tendency to affect that balance disad
vantageously. Foreigners, it is allowed, will in this case seek
some other vent for their commodities, and some other market
where they can supply their wants at an easier rate. A ten-
dency of this kind, if real, would be a sufficient objection to the
regulation. Nothing which contributes to change a beneficial
current of trade, can well compensate, by particular advantages,
for so injurious an effect. It is far more easy to transfer trade
from a less to a more favorable channel, than, when once trans-
ferred, to bring it back to its old one. Every source of artificial
interruption to an advantageous current, is, therefore, cautiously
to be avoided.

It merits attention, that the able minister, who lately and so
long presided over the finances of France, does not attribute to
the duty of coinage in that country, any particular advantages in
relation to exchange and trade. Though he rather appears an
advocate for it, it is on the sole ground of the revenue it affords,
which he represents as in the nature of a very moderate duty on
the general mass of exportation.

And it is not improbable that, to the singular felicity of situ-
ation of that kingdom, is to be attributed its not having been
sensible of the evils which seem incident to the regulation.
There is, perhaps, no part of Europe which has so little need of
other countries as France. Comprehending a variety of soils
and climates, an immense population, its agriculture in a state of
mature improvement, it possesses within its own bosom, most, if'
not all, the productions of the earth, which any of its most
favored neighbors can boast. The variety, abundance, and ex-
cellence of its wines, constitute a peculiar advantage in its favor. .

174 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

Arts and manufactures are there also in a very advanced state :
some of them, of considerable importance, in higher perfection
than elsewhere. Its contiguity to Spain ; the intimate nature of
its connection with that country — a country with few fabrics of
its own, consequently numerous wants, and the principal recep-
tacle of the treasures of the new world : these circumstances
concur, in securing to France so uniform and so considerable a
balance of trade, as in a great measure to counteract the natural
tendency of any errors which may exist in the system of her
mint ; and to render inferences from the operation of that system
there, in reference to this country, more liable to mislead than
to instruct. Nor ought it to pass unnoticed, that, with all these
advantages, the Government of France has found it necessary 7
on some occasions, to employ very violent methods to compel
the bringing of bullion to the mint — a circumstance which
affords a strong presumption of the inexpediency of the regula-
tion, and of the impracticability of executing it in the United
States.

This point has been the longer dwelt upon, not only because
there is a diversity of opinion among speculative men concern-
ing it, and a diversity in the practice of the most considerable
commercial nations, but because the acts of our own Govern-
ment, under the confederation, have not only admitted the ex-
pediency of defraying the expense of coinage out of the metals
themselves, but upon this idea have both made a deduction from
the weight of the coins, and established a difference between
their regulated value and the mint price of bullion, greater than
would result from that deduction. This double operation in
favor of a principle so questionable in itself, has made a more
particular investigation of it a duty.

The intention, however, of the preceding remarks, is rather
to show that the expectation of commercial advantages ought
not to decide in favor of a duty of coinage, and that, if it should
be adopted, it ought not to be in the form of a deduction from
-the intrinsic value of the coins, than absolutely to exclude the
idea of any difference whatever, between the value of the metals
in coin and in bullion. It is not clearly discerned, that a small

Mt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 175

difference between the mint price of bullion and the regulated
value of the coins would be pernicious, or that it might not even
be advisable, in the first instance, by way of experiment, merely
as a preventive to the melting down and exportation of the
coins. This will, now, be somewhat more particularly con-
sidered.

The arguments for a coinage entirely free, are, that it pre-
serves the intrinsic value of the metals ; that it makes the ex-
pense of fabrication a general instead of partial tax; and that it
tends to promote the abundance of gold and silver, which it
is alleged, will flow to that place where they find the best
price, and from that place where they are in any degree under-
valued.

The first consideration has not much weight, as an objec-
tion to a plan which, without diminishing the quantity of metals
in the coins, merely allows a less price for them in bullion
at the national factory or mint. No rule of intrinsic value is
violated, by considering the raw material as worth less than the
fabric in proportion to the expense of fabrication. And by di-
vesting foreign coins of the privilege of circulating as money,
they become the raw material.

The second consideration has perhaps greater weight. But
it may not amount to an objection, if it be the best method of
preventing disorders in the coins, which it is, in a particular
manner, the interest of those, on whom the tax would fall, to
prevent. The practice of taking gold by weight, which has of
late years obtained in Great Britain, has been found in some de-
gree, a remedy; but this is inconvenient, and may, on that
account, fall into disuse. Another circumstance has had a
remedial operation. This is the delay of the mint. It appears to
be the practice there, not to make payment for the bullion which
is brought to be exchanged for coin, till it either has in fact, or
is pretended to have undergone the process of recoining.

The necessity of fulfilling prior engagements, is a cause or
pretext for postponing the delivery of the coin in lieu of the
bullion. And this delay creates a difference in the market price
of the two things. Accordingly, for some years past, an ounce

176 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

of standard gold, which is worth in coin £3 17s. 10 \d. sterling,
has been in the market of London, in bullion, only .£3 17s. 6d.,
which is within a small fraction of one half per cent. less. Whe-
ther this be management in the mint, to accommodate the bank
in the purchase of bullion, or to effect indirectly something
equivalent to a formal difference of price, or whether it be the
natural course of the business, is open to conjecture.

It, at the same time, indicates that, if the mint were to make
prompt payment; at about half per cent, less than it does at pre-
sent, the state of bullion in respect to coin, would be precisely
the same as it now is. And it would be then certain, that the
Government would save expense in the coinage of gold ; since it
is not probable that the time actually lost in the course of the
year, in converting bullion into coin, can be an equivalent to
half per cent, on the advance, and there will generally be at the
command of the treasury a considerable sum of money waiting
for some periodical disbursement, which, without hazard, might
be applied to that advance.

In what sense a free coinage can be said to promote the
abundance of gold and silver, may be inferred from the instances
which have been given of the tendency of a contrary system to
promote their exportation. It is, however, not probable, that a
very small difference of value between coin and bullion can have
any effect which ought to enter into calculation. There can be
no inducement of positive profit, to export the bullion, as long
as the difference of price is exceeded by the expense of transpor-
tation. And the prospect of smaller loss upon the metals than
upon commodities, when the difference is very minute, will be
frequently overbalanced by the possibility of doing better with
the latter, from a rise of markets. It is, at any rate, certain, that
it can be of no consequence in this view, whether the superiority
of coin to bullion in the market, be produced, as in England, by
the delay of the mint, or by a formal discrimination in the regu-
lated values.

Under an impression that a small difference between the
value of the coin and the mint price of bullion, is the least ex-
ceptionable expedient for restraining the melting down, or expor-

Mt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 177

tation of the former, and not perceiving that, if it be a very
moderate one, it can be hurtful in other respects, the Secretary
is inclined to an experiment of one half per cent, on each of the
metals. The fact which has been mentioned, with regard to the
price of gold bullion in the English market, seems to demon-
strate that such a difference may safely be made. In this case
there must be immediate payment for the gold and silver offered
to the mint. How far one half per cent, will go towards defray-
ing the expense of the coinage, cannot be determined beforehand
with accuracy. It is presumed that, on an economical plan, it
will suffice in relation to gold. But it is not expected that the
same rate on silver will be sufficient to defray the expense
attending that metal. Some additional provision may, therefore,
be found necessary, if this limit be adopted.

It does not seem to be advisable to make any greater differ-
ence in regard to silver than to gold ; because it is desirable that
the proportion between the two metals in the market, should
correspond with that in the coins, which would not be the case
if the mint price of one was comparatively lower than that of
the other ; and because, also, silver being proposed to be rated
in respect to gold, somewhat below its general commercial value,
if there should be a disparity to its disadvantage in the mint
prices of the two metals, it would obstruct too much the bring-
ing of it to be coined, and would add an inducement to export
it. Nor does it appear to the Secretary safe to make a greater
difference between the value of coin and bullion, than has been
mentioned. It will be better to have to increase it, hereafter, if
this shall be found expedient, than to have to recede from too
considerable a difference, in consequence of evils which shall
have been experienced.

It is sometimes mentioned, as an expedient, which, consist-
ently with a free coinage, may serve to prevent the evils desired
to be avoided, to incorporate in the coins a greater proportion
of alloy than is usual ; regulating their value, nevertheless, ac-
cording to the quantity of pure metal they contain. This, it is
supposed, by adding to the difficulty of refining them, would

178 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

cause bullion to be preferred, both for manufacture and expor-
tation.

But strong objections lie against this scheme — an augmenta-
tion of expense ; an actual depreciation of the coin ; a danger
of still greater depreciation in the public opinion ; the facilitating
of counterfeits ; while it is questionable whether it would have
the effect expected from it.

The alloy being esteemed of no value, an increase of it is
evidently" an increase of expense. This, in relation to the gold
coins, particularly, is a matter of moment. It has been noted,
that the alloy in them consists partly of silver. If, to avoid ex-
pense, the addition should be of copper only, this would spoil
the appearance of the coin, and give it a base countenance. Its
beauty would indeed be injured, though in a less degree, even
if the usual proportions of silver and copper should be main-
tained in the increased quantity of alloy.

And, however inconsiderable an additional expenditure of
copper in the coinage of a year may be deemed, in a series of
years it would become of consequence. In regulations which
contemplate the lapse and operation of ages, a very small item
of expense acquires importance.

The actual depreciation of the coin by an increase of alloy,
results from the very circumstance which is the motive to it —
the greater difficulty of refining. In England, it is customary for
those concerned in manufactures of gold, to make a deduction in
the price of four-pence sterling per ounce, of fine gold, for every
carat which the mass containing it, is below the legal standard.
Taking this as a rule, an inferiority of a single carat, or one
twenty-fourth part in the gold coins of the United States, com-
pared with the English standard, would cause the same quantity
of pure gold in them to be worth nearly four-tenths per cent,
less than in the coins of Great Britain. This circumstance would
be likely, in process of time, to be felt in the market of the
United States.

A still greater depreciation, in the public opinion, would
be to be apprehended from the apparent debasement of the coin.
The effects of imagination and prejudice cannot safely be dis-

Mi. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 179

regarded in any thing that relates to money. If the beauty of
the coifi be impaired, it may be found difficult to satisfy the
generality of the community, that what appears worst is not
really less valuable ; and it is not altogether certain, that an im-
pression of its being so, may not occasion an unnatural aug-
mentation of prices.

Greater danger of imposition, by counterfeits, is also to be
apprehended from the injury which will be done to the appear-
ance of the coin. It is a just observation, that " the perfection
of the coins is a great safeguard against counterfeits." And it
is evident that the color, as well as the excellence of the work-
manship, is an ingredient in that perfection. The intermixture
of too much alloy, particularly of copper, in the gold coins at
least, must materially lessen the facility of distinguishing, by the
eye, the purer from the baser kind — the genuine from the
counterfeit.

The inefficacy of the arrangement to the purpose intended
to be answered by it, is rendered probable by different con-
siderations. If the standard of plate in the United States should
be regulated according to that of the national coins, it is to be
expected that the goldsmith would prefer these to the foreign
coins, because he would find them prepared to his hand, in the
state which he desires; whereas he would have to expend an
additional quantity of alloy to bring the foreign coins to that
state. If the standard of plate, by law or usage, should be su-
perior to that of the national coins, there would be a possibility
of the foreign coins bearing a higher price in the market ; and
this would not only obstruct their being brought to the mint,
but might occasion the exportation of the national coin in pre-
ference. It is not understood, that the practice of making an
abatement of price for the inferiority of standard, is applicable
to the English mint ; and if it be not, this would also contribute
to frustrating the expected effect from the increase of alloy.
For, in this case, a given quantity of pure metal, in our stand-
ard, would be worth as much there, as in bullion of the Eng-
lish, or any other standard.

Considering, therefore, the uncertainty of the success of the

180 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

expedient, and the inconveniences which seem incident to it, it
would appeal preferable to submit to those of a free coinage. It
is observable, that additional expense, which is one of the prin-
cipal of these, is also applicable to the proposed remedy.

It is now proper to resume and finish the answer to the
first question, in order to which the three succeeding ones have
necessarily been anticipated. The conclusion to be drawn from
the observations which have been made on the subject, is this :
That the unit, in the coins of the United States, ought to cor-
respond with 24 grains and f of a grain of pure gold, and with
371 grains and ^ of a grain of pure silver, each answering to a
dollar in the money of account. The former is exactly agree-
able to the present value of gold, and the latter is within a
small fraction of the mean of the two last emissions of dollars —
the only ones which are now found in common circulation, and
of which the newest is in the greatest abundance. The alloy
in each case to be one-twelfth of the total weight, which will
make the unit 27 grains of standard gold, and 405 grains of
standard silver.

Each of these, it has been remarked, will answer to a dol-
lar in the money of account. It is conceived that nothing
better can be done in relation to this, than to pursue the track
marked out by the resolution of the 8th August, 1786. This
has been approved abroad, as well as at home, and it is certain
that nothing can be more simple and convenient than the deci-
mal subdivisions. There is every reason to expect that the
method will speedily grow into general use, when it shall be
seconded by corresponding coins. On this plan, the unit in the
money of account will continue to be, as established by that
resolution, a dollar ; and its multiples, dimes, cents, and mills,
or tenths, hundredths, and thousandths.

With regard to the number of different pieces which shall
compose the coins of the United States, two things are to be
consulted — convenience of circulation, and cheapness of the
coinage. The first ought not to be sacrificed to the last; but as
far as they can be reconciled to each other, it is desirable to do
it. Numerous and small (if not too minute) subdivisions assist

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 181

circulation ; but the multiplication of the smaller kinds increases
expense ; the same process being necessary to a small as to a
large piece.

As it is easy to add, it will be most advisable to begin with
a small number, till experience shall decide whether any other
kinds are necessary. The following, it is conceived, will be suf-
ficient in the commencement :

One gold piece, equal in weight and value to ten units, or
dollars.

One gold piece, equal to a tenth part of the former, and
which shall be a unit or dollar.

One silver piece, which shall also be a unit or dollar.
One silver piece, which shall be, in weight and value, a
tenth part of the silver unit or dollar.

One copper piece, which shall be of the value of a hundredth
part of a dollar.

One other copper piece, which shall be half the value of the
former.

It is not proposed that the lightest piece of the two gold
coins should be numerous, as, in large payments, the larger the
pieces, the shorter the process of counting, the less risk of mis-
take, and consequently, the greater the safety and the conveni-
ence ; and, in small payments, it is not perceived that any in-
convenience can accrue from an entire dependence on the silver
and copper coins. The chief inducement to the establishment of
the small gold piece, is to have a sensible object in that metal,
as well as in silver, to express the unit. Fifty thousand at a
time in circulation, may suffice for this purpose.

The tenth part of a dollar is but a small piece, and, with the
aid of the copper coins, will probably suffice for all the more
minute uses of circulation. It is less than the least of the silver
coins now in general currency in England.

The largest copper piece will nearly answer to the halfpenny
sterling, and the smallest, of course, to the farthing. Pieces of
very small value, are a great accommodation, and the means of
a beneficial economy to the poor, by enabling ^hem to purchase,
in small portions, and at a more reasonable rate, 4he necessaries of

182 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 34.

which they stand in need. If there are only cents, the lowest
price for any portion of a vendible commodity, however incon-
siderable in quantity, will be a cent ; if there are half cents, it
will be a half cent, and, in a great number of cases, exactly the
same things will be sold for a half cent, which, if there were
none, would cost a cent. But a half cent is low enough for
the minimum of price. Excessive minuteness would defeat ' its
object. To enable the poorer classes to procure necessaries
cheap, is to enable them, with more comfort to themselves, to
labor for less ; the advantages of which need no comment.

The denominations of the silver coins contained in the reso-
lution of the 8th of August, 1786, are conceived to be signifi-
cant and proper. The dollar is recommended by its correspond-
ency with the present coin of that name for which it is designed
to be a substitute, which will facilitate its ready adoption as such,
in the minds of the citizens. The dime, or tenth ; the cent, or
hundredth ; the mill, or thousandth, are proper, because they ex-
press the proportions which they are intended to designate. It
is only to be regretted, that the meaning of these terms will not
be familiar to those who are not acquainted with the language
from which they are borrowed. It were to be wished that the
length, and, in some degree, the clumsiness of some of the cor-
responding terms in English, did not discourage from preferring
them. It is useful to have names which signify the things to
which they belong ; and, in respect to objects of general use, in
a manner intelligible to all. Perhaps it might be an improve-
ment to let the dollar have the appellation either of dollar, or
unit, (which last will be the most significant,) and to substitute
"tenth " for dime. In time, the unit may succeed to the dollar.
The word cent, being in use in various transactions and instru-
ments, will, without much difficulty, be understood as the
hundredth, and the half cent, of course, as the two-hundredth
part.

The eagle is not a very expressive or apt appellation for the
largest gold piece, but nothing better occurs. The smallest of
the two gold coins, may ' e called the dollar, or unit, in common
with the silver piece with which it coincides.

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 183

The volume or size of each piece, is a matter of more conse-
quence than its denomination. It is evident, that the more su-
perficies, or surface, the more the piece will be liable to be injur-
ed by friction, or in other words, the faster it will wear. For
this reason, it is desirable to render the thickness as great, in
proportion to the breadth, as may consist with neatness and
good appearance. Hence, the form of the double guinea, or
double louis d'or, is preferable to that of the half Johannes, for
the large gold piece. The small one cannot well be of any other
size than the Portuguese peice of eight, of the same metal.

As it is of consequence to fortify the idea of the identity of
the dollar, it may be best to let the form and size of the new
one, as far as the quantity of matter (the alloy being less) permits,
agree with the form and size of the present. The diameter
mav be the same.

The tenths may be in a mean between the Spanish 8 and \
of a dollar.

The copper coins may be formed, merely with a view to good
appearance, as, any difference in the wearing that can result
from difference of form, can be of little consequence in reference
to that metal.

It is conceived that the weight of the cent may be eleven
pennyweights, which will about correspond with the value of the
copper, and the expense of coinage. This will be to conform
to the rule of intrinsic value, as far as regard to the convenient
size of the coins will permit ; and the deduction of the expense
•of coinage in this case, will be the more proper, as the copper
coins, which have been current hitherto, have passed, till lately,
for much more than their intrinsic value. Taking the weight,
as has been suggested, the size of the cent may be nearly that
of the piece herewith transmitted, which weighs lOdwt. llgrs.
10m. Two-thirds of the diameter of the cent will suffice for the
diameter of the half cent.

It may, perhaps, be thought expedient, according to general
practice, to make the copper coinage an object of profit, but,
where this is done to any considerable extent, it is hardly pos-
sible to have effectual security against counterfeits. This con-

184 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

sideration, concurring with the soundness of the principle of
preserving the intrinsic value of the money of a country, seems
to outweigh the consideration of profit.

The foregoing suggestions respecting the sizes of the several
coins, are made on the supposition that the Legislature may
think fit to regulate this matter. Perhaps, however, it may be
judged not unadvisable to leave it to Executive discretion.

With regard to the proposed size of the cent, it is to be con-
fessed, that it is rather greater than might be wished, if it could,
with propriety and safety, be made less ; and should the value
of copper continue to decline, as it has done for some time past,
it is very questionable whether it will long remain alone a fit metal
for money. This has led to a consideration of the expediency
of uniting a small proportion of silver with the copper, in order
to be able to lessen the bulk of the inferior coins. For this,
there are precedents in several parts of Europe. In France, the
composition which is called billon, has consisted of one part
silver and four parts copper ; according to which proportion, a
cent might contain seventeen grains, defraying out of the
material the expense of coinage. The conveniency of size is a
recommendation of such a species of coin, but the Secretary is
deterred from proposing it, by the apprehension of counterfeits.
The effect of so small a quantity of silver, in, comparatively, so
large a quantity of copper, could easily be imitated, by a mixture
of other metals of little value, and the temptation to doing it
would not be inconsiderable.

The devices of the coins are far from being matters of indif-
ference, as they may be made the vehicles of useful impressions.
They ought, therefore, to be emblematical, but without losing
sight of simplicity. The fewer sharp points and angles there are,
the less will be the loss by wearing. The Secretary thinks it
best, on this head, to confine himself to these concise and general
remarks.

The last point to be discussed, respects the currency of foreign
coins.

The abolition of this, in proper season, is a necessary part of
the system contemplated for the national coinage. But this it

JEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 185

will be expedient to defer, till some considerable progress has
been made in preparing substitutes for them. A gradation may,
therefore, be found most convenient.

The foreign coins may be suffered to circulate, precisely upon
their present footing, for one year after the mint shall have com-
menced its operations. The privilege may then be continued for
another year, to the gold coins of Portugal, England, and France,
and to the silver coins of Spain. And these may still be permit-
ted to be current for one year more, at the rates allowed to be
given for them at the mint ; after the expiration of which, the
circulation of all foreign coins to cease.

The moneys which will be paid into the treasury during the
first year, being re-coined, before they are issued anew, will afford
a partial substitute, before any interruption is given to the pre-
existing supplies of circulation. The revenues of the succeeding
year, and the coins which will be brought to the mint in conse-
quence of the discontinuance of their currency, will materially
extend the substitute in the course of that year, and its extension
will be so far increased during the third year, by the facility of
procuring the remaining species to be re-coined, which will arise
from the diminution of their current values, as probably to ena-
ble the dispensing wholly with the circulation of the foreign
coins after that period. The progress which the currency of
bank bills will be likely to have made, during the same time,
will, also, afford a substitute of another kind.

This arrangement, besides avoiding a sudden stagnation of
circulation, will cause a considerable proportion of whatever loss
may be incident to the establishment, in the first instance, to fall,
as it ought to do, upon the Government, and will, probably, tend
to distribute the remainder of it, more equally, among the com-
munity.

It may, nevertheless, be advisable, in addition to the precau*
tions here suggested, to repose a discretionary authority in the
President of the United States, to continue the currency of the
Spanish dollar, at a value corresponding with the quantity of fine
silver contained in it, beyond the period above mentioned, for
the cessation of the circulation of the foreign coins. It is possi-

c 13

186 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

ble, that an exception, in favor of this particular species of coin,
may be found expedient, and it may tend to obviate inconveni-
ences, if there be a power to make the exception, in a capacity
to be exerted, when the period shall arrive. •

The Secretary for the Department of State, in his report to
the House of Representatives, on the subject of establishing a
uniformity in the weights, measures, and coins, of the United
States, has proposed that the weight of the dollar should corres-
pond with the unit of weight. This was done on the supposition
that it would require but a very small addition to the quantity of
metal which the dollar, independently of the object he had in
view, ought to contain, in which he was guided by the resolution
of the 8th of August, 1786, fixing the dollar at 375 grains and 64
hundredths of a grain.

Taking this as the proper standard of the dollar, a small
alteration, for the sake of incorporating so systematic an idea,
would appear desirable. But, if the principles which have been
reasoned from, in this report, are just, the execution of that idea
becomes more difficult. It would, certainly, not be advisable to
make, on that account, so considerable a change in the money
unit, as would be produced by the addition of five grains of sil-
ver to the proper weight of the dollar, without a proportional aug-
mentation of its relative value, and, to make such an augmenta-
tion, would be to abandon the advantage of preserving the
identity of the dollar, or, to speak more accurately, of having the
proposed one received and considered, as a mere substitute for
the present.

The end may, however, be obtained, without either of those
inconveniences, by increasing the proportion of alloy in the sil-
ver coins. But this would destroy the uniformity, in that respect,
between the gold and silver coins. It remains, therefore, to elect
which of the two systematic ideas shall be pursued or relin-
quished; and it may be remarked, that it will be more easy to
convert the present silver coins into the proposed ones, if these
last have the same, or nearly the same proportion of alloy,
than if they have less.

The organization of the mint yet remains to be considered.

jEt. 34.] ESTABLISHMENT OF A MINT. 187

This relates to the persons to be employed, and to the ser-
vices which they are respectively to perform. It is conceived
that there ought to be :

^director of the mint, to have the general superintendence
of the business.

An assay master, or assayer, to receive the metals brought to
the mint, ascertain their fineness, and deliver them to be coined.

A master coiner, to conduct the making of the coins.

A cashier, to receive and pay them out.

An auditor, to keep and adjust the accounts of the mint.

Clerks, as many as the director of the mint shall deem neces-
sary, to assist the different officers.

Workmen, as many as may be found requisite.

A porter.

In several of the European mints, there are various other
officers, but the foregoing are those, only, who appear to be
indispensable. Persons in the capacity of clerks, will suffice
instead of the others, with the advantage of greater economy.

The number of workmen is left indefinite, because, at certain
times, it is requisite to have more than at others. They will,
however, never be numerous. The expense of the establishment
in an ordinary year, will, probably, be from fifteen to twenty
thousand dollars.

The remedy for errors in the weight and alloy of the coins,
must necessarily form a part in the system of a mint ; and the
manner of applying it will require to be regulated. The follow-
ing account is given of the practice in England, in this particular :

A certain number of pieces are taken promiscuously out of
every fifteen pounds of gold coined at the mint, which are depo-
sited, for safe keeping, in a strong box, called the pix. This boxr
from time to time, is opened in the presence of the lord chancel-
lor, the officers of the treasury, and others, and portions are
selected from the pieces of each coinage, which are melted
together, and the mass assayed by a jury of the company of gold-
smiths. If the imperfection and deficiency, both in fineness and
weight, fall short of a sixth of a carat, or 40 grains of pure gold,
upon a pound of standard, the master of the mint is held excusa-

188 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

ble, because, it is supposed, that no workman can reasonably be
answerable for greater exactness. The expediency of some simi-
lar regulation seems to be manifest.

All which is humbly submitted. #

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

TEADE WITH INDIA AND CHINA.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 10, 1791.

Treasury Office, February 10, 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the order of the
House of Eepresentatives of the twentieth day of January last,
referring to him the petition of the merchants of Philadelphia,
trading to India and China, respectfully reports :

That the subject of said petition involves the consideration of
the general policy which ought to be pursued by the United
States in relation to the trade with India and China, concerning
which, questions of equal delicacy and importance arise, requiring
a more careful and deliberate investigation than can be perform-
ed, consistently with the view of the House of Eepresentatives,
respecting the termination of their present session.

That, under this impression, the Secretary, if permitted by
the House, will defer a report on the said subject, generally, till
the next session of Congress, and will confine himself, for the
present, to a particular article of the said trade, namely : Teas.

That it appears, upon inquiry, that considerable quantities of
Bohea tea have been brought into the United States, from
Europe, notwithstanding the additional duties laid upon that
article, when so imported, by the laws heretofore passed ; which
have contributed both to overstock the market and to reduce
the price below the standard at which it can be afforded by the
merchants trading to China ; producing consequently, a material

^Et. 34.] INDIA AND CHINA TRADE. 189

discouragement to the trade with that country, in which the
article of Bohea tea is one of principal importance.

As an additional and extensive field for the enterprise of our
merchants and mariners, and as an additional outlet for the commo-
dities of the country, the trade to India and China appears to lay
claim to the patronage of the Government, and its proceedings,
hitherto, have countenanced the expediency of granting that
patronage; in pursuance of which principle, the fact, which has
been stated, would seem to render it advisable, for the present,
that a further duty should be laid upon Bohea tea brought from
Europe. Three cents per pound, it is conceived, would be an
adequate increase.

But, to form a satisfactory judgment of the propriety either
of pursuing or extending the system of granting particular
favors to the trade in question, it is necessary that a full and
accurate examination should be had into the nature and tenden-
cy of that trade, in order to ascertain the extent to which it may
require or be entitled to encouragement.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to an order of
the House of Bepresentatives of the 26th ultimo, relative to
the petition of Elias Hasket Derby, of the town of Salem,
merchant, respectfully reports :

That he has duly considered the allegations contained in the
said petition, and the prayer thereof.

That he finds an insuperable difficulty in recommending to
the consideration of the House, an act of particular indulgence,
relative to the public dues, in favor of an individual.

That, however, it is true, that the importers of teas, in the
year 1790, have been embarrassed and injured by the difficulty
of immediately obtaining prices adequate to cover the duties
which have been imposed on those articles.

190 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

That an apprehension of such difficulties had induced him to
suggest to the House, in his report of the 13th of December last,
the extension of the credit for the duties thereafter to accrue
upon this article.

From a view of the cases of the petitioner and other im-
porters of teas, by whom representations have been made to
him, the Secretary begs leave to suggest for the consideration of
the House, the propriety of giving a retrospect to that clause, in
the pending bill, which extends, in future, the credit allowed
upon the impost on teas, in favor of all the importers of that
article in the last year.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton-,

Secretary of the Treasury.

THE DUTCH LOAN.

Communicated to the Senate, February 25, 1791.

Treasury Department, February 24th, 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the orders of the
President of the United States, as signified in his speech at the
present session, respectfully informs the Senate and House of
Representatives :

That the terms of the loan of three millions of florins, men-
tioned by the President as having been negotiated in Holland,
are as follow :

The rate of interest is five per cent., but the charges form a
deduction from the principal sum of 4i per cent., which will
occasion the real interest to be paid on the sum actually received
by the United States, to be equal to five and a quarter per cent,

nearly.

The reimbursement is to be made in six equal instalments,
commencing in the year 1800, and ending in the year 1804. But
it is in the option of the United States to reimburse the whole, or

jEt. 34.] DUTCH LOAN. 191

any part of the sum borrowed, at any time they may think
proper.

That the disposition which has been made of the above-
mentioned sum is as follows :

One million five hundred thousand florins have been applied
pursuant to the directions of the President of the United States,
as a payment to France.

A further sum, of about one hundred and sixty thousand
florins, will also have been appropriated towards a payment on
account of the Duch Loans, which became due on the first day
of February last, including a premium of seventy thousand
florins.

The residue is in a situation to be disposed of as may be judg-
ed expedient.

A doubt arises how far this loan may be within the meaning
of the act making provision for the reduction of the public debt,
on account of the limitation of the rate of interest, which, taking
the charges of the loan into calculation, would be somewhat
exceeded ; and though it is presumed that that limitation was
not intended to exclude the addition of the ordinary charges,
yet a point of so much delicacy appears to require legislative
explanation.

The Secretary of the Treasury begs leave to observe that it
is in his judgment highly expedient, and very important to the
general operations of the treasury, that the above-mentioned loan
should be deemed to be included within the meaning of the
aforesaid act. The residue may, in this case, be applied with
material advantage to the purposes of that act, and the part
which has been otherwise applied may be hereafter replaced.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

192 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

SPIEITS FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC.

Draft of an Act repealing after the last day of June next, the
duties heretofore laid upon distilled spirits, imported from
abroad, and laying others in their stead, and also upon spirits
distilled within the the United States and for appropriating the
same. March 3d, 1791.

Arrangement made by the President of the United States,
with respect to the subdivisions of the several districts thereof
into surveys, the appointment of officers and the assignment of
compensations pursuant to the above entitled act. Treasury
Department, October 31, 1791. — [States Papers, Finance, vol. i.,
p. 110.

MANUFACTURES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, December 5, 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the order of the
House of Representatives, of the 15th day of January, 1790,
has applied his attention, at as early a period as his other
duties would permit, to the subject of Manufactures, and
particularly to the means of promoting such as will tend to
render the United States independent on foreign nations, for
military and other essential supplies ; and he thereupon re-
spectfully submits the following report :

The expediency of encouraging manufactures in the United
States, which was not long since deemed very questionable,
appears at this time to be pretty generally admitted. The em-
barrassments which have obstructed the progress of our external

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 193

trade, have led to serious reflections on the necessity of enlarg-
ing the sphere of our domestic commerce. The restrictive regu-
lations, which, in foreign markets, abridge the vent of the in-
creasing surplus of our agricultural produce, serve to beget an
earnest desire, that a more extensive demand for that surplus
may be created at home ; and the complete success which has
rewarded manufacturing enterprise, in some valuable branches,
conspiring with the promising symptoms which attend some less
mature essays in others, justify a hope, that the obstacles to the
growth of this species of industry are less formidable than they
were apprehended to be ; and that it is not difficult to find, in
its further extension, a full indemnification for any external dis-
advantages, which are or may be experienced, as well as an ac-
cession of resources, favorable to national independence and
safety.

There still are, nevertheless, respectable patrons of opinions
unfriendly to the encouragement of manufactures. The follow-
ing are, substantially, the arguments by which these opinions
are defended.

" In every country (say those who entertain them) agricul-
ture is the most beneficial and productive object of human in-
dustry. This position, generally, if not universally true, applies
with peculiar emphasis to the United States, on account of their
immense tracts of fertile territory, uninhabited and unimproved.
Nothing can afford so advantageous an employment for capital
and labor, as the conversion of this extensive wilderness into
cultivated farms. Nothing, equally with this, can contribute to
the population, strength, and real riches of the country.

" To endeavor, by the extraordinary patronage of govern-
ment, to accelerate the growth of manufactures, is, in fact, to en-
deavor, by force and art, to transfer the natural current of in-
dustry from a more to a less beneficial channel. Whatever has
such a tendency, must necessarily be unwise ; indeed, it can
hardly ever be wise in a government to attempt to give a direc-
tion to the industry of its citizens. This, under the quick- sight-
ed guidance of private interest, will, if left to itself, infallibly
find its own way to the most profitable employment ; and it is by

194 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt .34.

such employment, that the public prosperity will be most effect-
ually promoted. To leave industry to itself, therefore, is, in
almost every case, the soundest as well as the simplest policy.

" This policy is not only recommended to the United States,
by considerations which affect all nations ; it is, in a manner,
dictated to them by the imperious force of a very peculiar situa-
tion. The smallnes of their population compared with their ter-
ritory ; the constant allurements to emigration from the settled
to the unsettled parts of the country : the facility with which the
less independent condition of an artisan can be exchanged for
the more independent condition of a farmer ; these, and similar
causes, conspire to produce, and, for a length of time, must con-
tinue to occasion, a scarcity of hands for manufacturing occupa-
tion, and dearness of labor generally. To these disadvantages
for the prosecution of manufactures, a deficiency of pecuniary
capital being added, the prospect of a successful competition with
the manufactures of Europe, must be regarded as little less than
desperate. Extensive manufactures can only be the offspring of
a redundant, at least of a full population. Till the latter shall
characterize the situation of this country, 'tis vain to hope for
the former.

" If, contrary to the natural course of things, an unseasona-
ble and premature spring can be given to certain fabrics, by
heavy duties, prohibitions, bounties, or by other forced expedi-
ents, this will only be to sacrifice the interests of the commu-
nity to those of particular classes. Besides the misdirection of
labor, a virtual monopoly will be given to the persons employed
on such fabrics; and an enhancement of price, the inevitable
consequence of every monopoly, must be defrayed at the expense
of the other parts of society. It is far preferable, that those per-
sons should be engaged in the cultivation of the earth, and that
we should procure, in exchange for its productions, the commod-
ities with which foreigners are able to supply us in greater
perfection, and upon better terms."

This mode of reasoning is founded upon facts and principles
which have certainly respectable pretensions. If it had govern-
ed the conduct of nations more generally than it has done, there

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 195

is room to suppose that it might have carried them faster to pros-
perity and greatness than they have attained by the pursuit of
maxims too widely opposite. Most general theories, however,
admit of numerous exceptions, and there are few, if any, of the
political kind, which do not blend a considerable portion of
error with the truths they inculcate.

In order to an accurate judgment how far that which has
been just stated ought to be deemed liable to a similar imputa-
tion, it is necessary to advert carefully to the considerations
which plead in favor of manufactures, and which appear to
recommend the special and positive encouragement of them in
certain cases, and under certain reasonable limitations.

It ought readily to be conceded that the cultivation of the
earth, as the primary and most certain source of national supply ;
as the immediate and chief source of subsistence to man ; as the
principal source of those materials which constitute the nutri-
ment of other kinds of labor ; as including a state most favor-
able to the freedom and independence of the human mind — one,
perhaps, most conducive to the multiplication of the human
species; has intrinsically a strong claim to pre-eminence over
every other kind of industry.

But, that it has a title to any thing like an exclusive predi-
lection, in any country, ought to be admitted with great caution;
that it is even more productive than every other branch of in-
dustry, requires more evidence than has yet been given in support
of the position. That its real interests, precious and important
as, without the help of exaggeration, they truly are, will be
advanced, rather than injured, by the due encouragement of
manufactures, may, it is believed, be satisfactorily demonstrated.
And it is also believed, that the expediency of such encourage-
ment, in a general view, may be shown to be recommended by
the most cogent and persuasive motives of national policy.

It has been maintained, that agriculture is not only the most
productive, but the only productive species of industry. The
reality of this suggestion, in either respect, has, however, not
been verified by any accurate detail of facts and calculations ;
and the general arguments which are adduced to prove it, are
rather subtile and paradoxical, than solid or convincing.

196 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

Those which maintain its exclusive productiveness, are to
this effect :

Labor bestowed upon the cultivation of land, produces
enough, not only to replace all the necessary expenses incurred
in the business, and to maintain the persons who are employed
in it, but to afford, together with the ordinary profit on the stock
or capital of the farmer, a net surplus or rent for the landlord or
proprietor of the soil. But the labor of artificers does nothing
more than replace the stock which employs them (or which
furnishes materials, tools, and wages), and yield the ordinary
profit upon that stock. It yields nothing equivalent to the rent
of land ; neither does it add any thing to the total value of the
whole annual produce of the land and labor of the country.
The additional value given to those parts of the produce of land,
which are wrought into manufactures, is counterbalanced by the
value of those other parts of that produce which are consumed
by the manufacturers. It can, therefore, only be by saving or
parsimony, not by the positive productiveness of their labor, that
the classes of artificers can, in any degree, augment the revenue
of the society.

To this it has been answered :

1. " That, inasmuch as it is acknowledged that manufacturing
labor re-produces a value equal to that which is expended or
consumed in carrying it on, and continues in existence the
original stock or capital employed, it ought, on that account,
alone, to escape being considered as wholly unproductive. That,
though it should be admitted, as alleged, that the consumption of
the produce of the soil, by the classes of artificers or manufac-
turers, is exactly equal to the value added by their labor to the
materials upon which it is exerted, yet, it would not thence
follow, that it added nothing to the revenue of the society, or to
the aggregate value of the annual produce of its land and labor.
If the consumption, for any given period, amounted to a given
sum, and the increased value of the produce manufactured, in
the same period, to a like sum, the total amount of the consump-
tion and production, during that period, would be equal to the
two sums, and consequently double the value of the agricultural

^Jt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 197

produce consumed ; and, though the increment of value pro-
duced by the classes of artificers should, at no time, exceed the
value of the produce of the land consumed by them, yet, there
would be, at every moment, in consequence of their labor, a
greater value of goods in the market than would exist independ-
ent of it."

2. " That the position, that artificers can augment the revenue
of a society only by parsimony, is true in no other sense than in
one which is equally applicable to husbandmen or cultivators.
It may be alike affirmed of all these classes, that the fund acquir-
ed by their labor, and destined for their support, is not, in an
ordinary way, more than equal to it. And hence, it will follow,
that augmentations of the wealth or capital of the community
(except in the instances of some extraordinary dexterity or
skill), can only proceed, with respect to any of them, from the
savings of the more thrifty and parsimonious."

3. "That the annual produce of the land and labor of a
country can only be increased in two ways — by some improve-
ment in the productive powers of the useful labor which actually
exist within it, or by some increase in the quantity of such labor.
That, with regard to the first, the labor of artificers being capable
of greater subdivision and simplicity of operation than that of
cultivators, it is susceptible, in a proportionably greater degree
of improvement in its productive powers, whether to be derived
from an accession of skill or from the application of ingenious
machinery : in which particular, therefore, the labor employed
in the culture of land can pretend to no advantage over that
engaged in manufactures. That, with regard to an augmentation
of the quantity of useful labor, this, excluding adventitious
circumstances, must depend essentially upon an increase of capital,
which again must depend upon the savings made out of the
revenues of those who furnish or manage that which is at any
time employed, whether in agriculture or in manufactures, or in
any other way."

But, while the exclusive productiveness of agricultural labor
has been thus denied and refuted, the superiority of its produc-
tiveness has been conceded without hesitation. As this con-

198 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 34.

cession involves a point of considerable magnitude, in relation
to maxims of public administration, the grounds on which it
rests are worthy of a distinct and particular examination.

One of the arguments made use of in support of the idea,
may be pronounced both quaint and superficial. It amounts to
this: That, in the productions of the soil, nature co-operates with
man ; and that the effect of their joint labor must be greater than
that of the labor of man alone.

This, however, is far from being a necessary inference. It is
very conceivable, that the labor of man alone, laid out upon
a work requiring great skill and art to bring it to perfection,
may be more productive, in value, than the labor of nature
and man combined, when directed towards more simple opera-
tions and objects; and when it is recollected to what an extent
the agency of nature, in the application of the mechanical
powers, is made auxiliary to the prosecution of manufactures,
the suggestion which has been noticed loses even the appearance
of plausibility.

It might also be observed, with a contrary view, that the
labor employed in agriculture, is, in a great measure, periodical
and occasional, depending on seasons, and liable to various and
long intermissions ; while that occupied in many manufactures is
constant and regular, extending through the year, embracing, in
some instances, night as well as day. It is also probable that
there are, among the cultivators of land, more examples of re-
missness than among artificers. The farmer, from the peculiar
fertility of his land, or some other favorable circumstance, may
frequently obtain a livelihood, even with a considerable degree
of carelessness in the mode of cultivation ; but the artisan can
with difficulty effect the same object, without exerting himself
pretty equally with all those who are engaged in the same
pursuit. And if it may likewise be assumed as a fact, that
manufactures open a wider field to exertions of ingenuity than
agriculture, it would not be a strained conjecture, that the labor
employed in the former, being at once more constant, more
uniform, and more ingenious, than that which is employed in
the latter, will be found, at the same time, more productive.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 199

But it is not meant to lay stress on observations of this
nature ; they ought only to serve as a counterbalance to those of
a similar complexion. Circumstances so vague and general, as
well as so abstract, can afford little instruction in a matter of this
kind.

Another, and that which seems to be the principal argument
offered for the superior productiveness of agricultural labor,
turns upon the allegation, that labor employed on manufactures,
yields nothing equivalent to the rent of land ; or to that net
surplus, as it is called, which accrues to the proprietor of the
soil.

Bat this distinction, important as it has been deemed, appears
rather verbal than substantial.

It is easily discernible, that what, in the first instance, is
divided into two parts, under the denominations of the ordinary
profit of the stock of the farmer and rent to the landlord, is, in
the second instance, united under the general appellation of the
ordinary profit on the stock of the undertaker ; and that this
formal or verbal distribution constitutes the whole difference in
the two cases. It seems to have been overlooked, that the land
is itself a stock or capital, advanced or lent by its owner to the oc-
cupier or tenant, and that the rent he receives is only the ordina-
ry profit of a certain stock in land, not managed by the proprietor
himself, but by another, to whom he lends or lets it, and who,
on his part, advances a second capital, to stock and improve the
land, upon which he also receives the usual profit. The rent of
the landlord and the profit of the farmer are, therefore, nothing
more than the ordinary profits of two capitals belonging to
two different persons, and united in the cultivation of a farm :
as, in the other case, the surplus which arises upon any manu-
factory, after replacing the expenses of carrying it on, answers to
the ordinary profits of one or more capitals engaged in the pro-
secution of such manufactory. It is said one or more capitals,
because, in fact, the same thing which is contemplated in the
case of the farm, sometimes happens in that of a manufactory.
There is one, who furnishes a part of the capital or lends a part
of the money by which it is carried on, and another, who carries

200 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

it on with the addition of his own capital. Out of the surplus
which remains after defraying expenses, an interest is paid to the
moneylender, for the portion of the capital furnished by him,
which exactly agrees with the rent paid to the landlord ; and the
residue of that surplus constitutes the profit of the undertaker or
manufacturer, and agrees with what is denominated the ordinary
profits on the stock of the farmer. Both together, make the
ordinary profits of two capitals employed in a manufactory ; as,
in the other case, the rent of the landlord and the revenue of the
farmer compose the ordinary profits of two capitals employed in
the cultivation of a farm.

The rent, therefore, accruing to the proprietor of the land,
far from being a criterion of exclusive productiveness, as has
been argued, is no criterion even of superior productiveness.
The question must still be, whether the surplus, after defraying
expenses of a given capital, employed in the purchase and im-
provement of a piece of land, is greater or less than that of a
like capital, employed in the prosecution of a manufactory; or
whether the whole value produced from a given capital and a
given quantity of labor, employed in one way, be greater or
less than the whole value produced from an equal capital and an
equal quantity of labor, employed in the other way ; or rather,
perhaps, whether the business of agriculture, or that of manu-
factures, will yield the greatest product, according to a compound
ratio of the quantity of the capital, and the quantity of labor,
which are employed in the one or in the other.

The solution of either of these questions is not easy ; it in-
volves numerous and complicated details, depending on an accu-
rate knowledge of the objects to be compared. It is not known
that the comparison has ever yet been made upon sufficient data,
properly ascertained and analyzed. To be able to make it on
the present occasion, with satisfactory precision, would demand
more previous inquiry and investigation, than there has been
hitherto either leisure or opportunity to accomplish.

Some essays, however, have been made towards acquiring the
requisite information ; which have rather served to throw doubt
upon, than to confirm the hypothesis under examination. But

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 201

it ought to be acknowledged, that they have been too little diver-
sified, and are too imperfect to authorize a definitive conclusion
either way ; leading rather to probable conjecture than to certain
deduction. They render it probable that there are various
branches of manufactures, in which a given capital will yield a
greater total product, and a considerably greater net product,
than an equal capital invested in the purchase and improvement
of lands ; and that there are also some branches, in which both
the gross and the net produce will exceed that of agricultural
industry, according to a compound ratio of capital and labor.
But it is on this last point that there appears to be the greatest room
for doubt. It is far less difficult to infer generally, that the net
produce of capital engaged in manufacturing enterprises is greater
than that of capital engaged in agriculture.

The foregoing suggestions are not designed to inculcate an
opinion that manufacturing industry is more productive than
that of agriculture. They are intended rather to show that the
reverse of this proposition is not ascertained; that the general
arguments, which are brought to establish it, are not satisfactory-
and consequently, that a supposition of the superior productive-
ness of tillage ought to be no obstacle to listening to any substantial
inducements to the encouragement of manufactures, which may
be otherwise perceived to exist, through an apprehension that
they may have a tendency to divert labor from a more to a less
profitable employment.

It is extremely probable, that, on a full and accurate develop-
ment of the matter, on the ground of fact and calculation, it
would be discovered that there is no material difference between
the aggregate productiveness of the one, and of the other kind of
industry ; and that the propriety of the encouragements, which
may, in any case, be proposed to be given to either, ought to be
determined upon considerations irrelative to any comparison of
that nature.

II. But without contending for the superior productiveness of
manufacturing industry, it may conduce to a better judgment of
the policy which ought to be pursued respecting its encourage-

c 14

202 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

merit, to contemplate the subject under some additional aspects,
tending not only to confirm the idea that this kind of industry
has been improperly represented as unproductive in itself, but to
evince, in addition, that the establishment and diffusion of manu-
factures have the effect of rendering the total mass of useful and
productive labor, in a community, greater than it would other-
wise be. In prosecuting this discussion, it may be necessary
briefly to resume and review some of the topics which have been
already touched.

To affirm that the labor of the manufacturer is unproductive,
because he consumes as much of the produce of land as he adds
value to the raw material which he manufactures, is not better
founded, than it would be to affirm that the labor of the farmer,
which furnishes materials to the manufacturer, is unproductive,
because he consumes an equal value of manufactured articles.
Each furnishes a certain portion of the produce of his labor to
the other, and each destroys a correspondent portion of the pro-
duce of the labor of the other. In the mean time, the mainte-
nance of two citizens, instead of one, is going on ; the State has
two members instead of one ; and they, together, consume twice
the value of what is produced from the land.

If, instead of a farmer and artificer, there were a farmer only,
he would be under the necessity of devoting a part of his labor
to the fabrication of clothing, and other articles, which he would
procure of the artificer, in the case of there being such a person ;
and of course he would be able to devote less labor to the culti-
vation of his farm, and would draw from it a proportionably less
product. The whole quantity of production, in this state of
things, in provisions, raw materials, and manufactures, would
certainly not exceed in value the amount of what would be pro-
duced in provisions and raw materials only, if there were an arti-
ficer as well as a farmer.

Again, if there were both an artificer and a farmer, the latter
would be left at liberty to pursue exclusively the cultivation of
his farm. A greater quantity of provisions and raw materials
would, of course, be produced, equal, at least, as has been already
observed, to the whole amount of the provisions, raw materials,

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 203

and manufactures, which would exist on a contrary supposition.
The artificer, at the same time, would be going on in the produc-
tion of manufactured commodities, to an amount sufficient, not
only to repay the farmer, in those commodities, for the provi-
sions and materials which were procured from him, but to furnish
the artificer himself, with a supply of similar commodities for his
own use. Thus, then, there would be two quantities or values
in existence, instead of one ; and the revenue and consumption
would be double, in one case, what it would be in the other.

If, in place of both of these suppositions, there were supposed
to be two farmers and no artificer, each of whom applied a part
of his labor to the culture of land, and another part to the fabri-
cation of manufactures ; in this case, the portion of the labor of
both, bestowed upon land, would produce the same quantity of
provisions and raw materials only, as would be produced by the
entire sum of the labor of one, applied in the same manner ; and
the portion of the labor of both, bestowed upon manufactures,
would produce the same quantity of manufactures only, as would
be produced by the entire sum of the labor of one, applied in the
same manner. Hence, the produce of the labor of the two farm-
ers would not be greater than the produce of the labor of the
farmer and artificer ; and hence it results, that the labor of the
artificer is as positively productive as that of the farmer, and as
positively augments the revenue of the society.

The labor of the artificer replaces to the farmer that portion
of his labor with which he provides the materials of exchange
with the artificer, and which he would otherwise have been com-
pelled to apply to manufactures ; and while the artificer thus
enables the farmer to enlarge his stock of agricultural industry,
a portion of which he purchases for his own use, he also supplies
himself with the manufactured articles, of which he stands in
need. He does still more. Besides this equivalent, which he
gives for the portion of agricultural labor consumed by him, and
this supply of manufactured commodities for his own consump-
tion, he furnishes still a surplus, which compensates for the use of
the capital advanced, either by himself or some other person, for
carrying on the business. This is the ordinary profit of the

204 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 34.

stock employed in the manufactory, and is, in every sense, as
effective an addition to the income of the society as the rent of
land.

The produce of the labor of the artificer, consequently, may
be regarded as composed of three parts ; one, by which the pro-
visions for his subsistence and the materials for his work, are
purchased of the farmer ; one, by which he supplies himself with
manufactured necessaries; and a third, which constitutes the
profit on the stock employed. The two last portions seem to
have been overlooked, in the system which represents manufac-
turing industry as barren and unproductive.

In the course of the preceding illustrations, the products of
equal quantities of the labor of the farmer and artificer have been
treated as if equal to each other. But this is not to be understood
as intending to assert any such precise equality. It is merely a
manner of expression, adopted for the sake of simplicity and
perspicuity. Whether the value of the produce of the labor of
the farmer be somewhat more or less than that of the artificer, is
not material to the main scope of the argument, which, hitherto,
has only aimed at showing, that the one, as well as the other,
occasions a positive augmentation of the total produce and reve-
nue of the society.

It is now proper to proceed a step further, and to enumerate
the principal circumstances from which it may be inferred that
manufacturing establishments not only occasion a positive aug-
mentation of the produce and revenue of the society, but that
they contribute essentially to rendering them greater than they
could possibly be, without such establishments. These circum-
stances are :

1. The division of labor.

2. An extension of the use of machinery.

3. Additional employment to classes of the community not
ordinarily engaged in the business.

4. The promoting of emigration from foreign countries.

5. The furnishing greater scope for the diversity of talents
and dispositions, which discriminate men from each other.

6. The affording a more ample and various field for enter-
prise.

^t. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 205

7. The creating, in some instances, a new, and securing, in
all, a more certain and steady demand for the surplus produce of
the soil.

Each of these circumstances has a considerable influence upon
the total mass of industrious effort in a community ; together,
they add to it a degree of energy and effect, which are not easily
conceived. Some comments upon each of them, in the order in
which they have been stated, may serve to explain their impor-
tance.

1. As to the division of labor.

It has justly been observed, that there is scarcely any thing
of greater moment in the economy of a nation, than the proper
division of labor. The separation of occupations, causes each to
be carried to a much greater perfection, than it could possibly
acquire if they were blended. This arises principally from three
circumstances :

1st. The greater skill and dexterity naturally resulting from
a constant and undivided application to a single object. It is
evident that these properties must increase in proportion to the
separation and simplification of objects, and the steadiness of the
attention devoted to each ; and must be less in proportion to the
complication of objects, and the number among which the atten-
tion is distracted.

2d. The economy of time, by avoiding the loss of it, incident
to a frequent transition from one operation to another of a differ-
ent nature. This depends on various circumstances ; the transi-
tion itself, the orderly disposition of the implements, machines,
and materials, employed in the operation to be relinquished, the
preparatory steps to the commencement of a new one, the inter-
ruption of the impulse, which the mind of the workman acquires,
from being engaged in a particular operation, the distractions,
hesitations, and reluctances, which attend the passage from one
kind of business to another.

3d. An extension of the use of machinery. A man occupied
on a single object will have it more in his power, and will be
more naturally led to exert his imagination, in devising methods

206 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

to facilitate and abridge labor, than if he were perplexed by a
variety of independent and dissimilar operations. Besides this,
the fabrication of machines, in numerous instances, becoming
itself a distinct trade, the artist who follows it has all the advan-
tages which have been enumerated, for improvement in his par-
ticular art ; and, in both ways, the invention and application of
machinery are extended.

And from these causes united, the mere separation of the
occupation of the cultivator from that of the artificer, has the
effect of augmenting the productive powers of labor, and with
them, the total mass of the produce or revenue of a country. In
this single view of the subject, therefore, the utility of artificers
or manufacturers, towards promoting an increase of productive
industry, is apparent.

2. As to an extension of the use of machinery, a point which, though
partly anticipated, requires to he placed in one or two additioncd
lights.

The employment of machinery forms an item of great im-
portance in the general mass of national industry. It is an arti-
ficial force brought in aid of the natural force of man ; and, to
all the purposes of labor, is an increase of hands, an accession of
strength, unencumbered too by the expense of maintaining the
laborer. May it not, therefore, be fairly inferred, that those occu-
pations which give greatest scope to the use of this auxiliary,
contribute most to the general stock of industrious effort, and, in
consequence, to the general product of industry ?

It shall be taken for granted, and the truth of the position
referred to observation, that manufacturing pursuits are suscepti-
ble, in a greater degree, of the application of machinery, than
those of agriculture. If so, all the difference is lost to a commu-
nity, which, instead of manufacturing for itself, procures the
fabrics requisite to its supply, from other countries. The substi-
tution of foreign for domestic manufactures, is a transfer to
foreign nations, of the advantages accruing from the employment
of machinery, in the modes in which it is capable of being em-
ployed, with most utility and to the greatest extent.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 207

The cotton-mill, invented in England, within the last twenty
years, is a signal illustration of the general proposition which has
been just advanced. In consequence of it, all the different pro-
cesses for spinning cotton, are performed by means of machines,
which are put in motion by water, and attended chiefly by wo-
men and children ; and by a smaller number of persons, in the
whole, than are requisite in the ordinary mode of spinning. And
it is an advantage of great moment, that the operations of this
mill continue with convenience, during the night as well as
through the day. The prodigious effect of such a machine is
easily conceived. To this invention is to be attributed, essen-
tially, the immense progress which has been so suddenly made
in Great Britain, in the various fabrics of cotton.

3. As to the additional employment of classes of the community not
originally engaged in the particular business.

This is not among the least valuable of the means, by which
manufacturing institutions contribute to augment the general
stock of industry and production. In places where those institu-
tions prevail, besides the persons regularly engaged in them,
they afford occasional and extra employment to industrious indi-
viduals and families, who are willing to devote the leisure result-
ing from the intermissions of their ordinary pursuits to collateral
labors, as a resource for multiplying their acquisitions or their
enjoyments. The husbandman himself experiences a new source
of profit and support, from the increased industry of his wife and
daughters, invited and stimulated by the demands of the neigh-
boring manufactories.

Besides this advantage of occasional employment to classes
having different occupations, there is another, of a nature allied
to it, and of a similar tendency. This is the employment of per-
sons who would otherwise be idle, and in many cases, a burthen
on the community, either from the bias of temper, habit, infirmi-
ty of body, or some other cause, indisposing or disqualifying
them for the toils of the country. It is worthy of particular
remark, that, in general, women and children are rendered more

208 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Ml. 34.

useful, and the latter more early useful, by manufacturing estab-
lishments, than they would otherwise be. Of the number of per-
sons employed in the cotton manufactories of Great Britain, it is
computed that four-sevenths, nearly, are women and children;
of whom the greatest proportion are children, and many of them
of a tender age.

And thus it appears to be one of the attributes of manufac-
tures, and one of no small consequence, to give occasion to the
exertion of a greater quantity of industry, even by the same
number of persons, where they happen to prevail, than would
exist if there were no such establishments.

4. As to the promoting of emigration from foreign countries.

Men reluctantly quit one course of occupation and livelihood
for another, unless invited to it by very apparent and proximate
advantages. Many who would go from one country to another,
if they had a prospect of continuing with more benefit the callings
to which they have been educated, will often not be tempted to
change their situation by the hope of doing better in some other
way. Manufacturers, who, listening to the powerful invitations
of a better price for their fabrics, or their labor, of greater cheap-
ness of provisions and raw materials, of an exemption from the
chief part of the taxes, burthens, and restraints, which they
endure in the old world, of greater personal independence and
consequence, under the operation of a more equal government,
and of what is far more precious than mere religious toleration,
a perfect equality of religious privileges, would probably flock
from Europe to the United States, to pursue their own trades or
professions, if they were once made sensible of the advantages
they would enjoy, and were inspired with an assurance of encou-
ragement and employment, will, with difficulty, be induced to
transplant themselves, with a view to becoming cultivators of
land.

If it be true, then, that it is the interest of the United States
to open every possible avenue to emigration from abroad, it
affords a weighty argument for the encouragement of manu-

iEi. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 209

factures; which, for the reasons just assigned, will have the
strongest tendency to multiply the inducements to it.

Here is perceived an important resource, not only for extend-
ing the population, and with it the useful and productive labor
of the country, but likewise for the prosecution of manufac-
tures, without deducting from the number of hands, which
might otherwise be drawn to tillage ; and even for the indem-
nification of agriculture, for such as might happen to be di-
verted from it. Many, whom manufacturing views would induce
to emigrate, would, afterwards, yield to the temptations which
the particular situation of this country holds out to agricultural
pursuits. And while agriculture would, in other respects, derive
many signal and unmingled advantages from the growth of
manufactures, it is a problem whether it would gain or lose,
as to the article of the number of persons employed in carrying
it on.

5. As to the furnishing greater scope for the diversity of talents and
dispositions, which discriminate men from each other.

This is a much more powerful mean of augmenting the fund
of national industry, than may at first sight appear. It is a just
observation, that minds of the strongest and most active powers
for their proper objects, fall below mediocrity, and labor with-
out effect, if confined to uncongenial pursuits. And it is thence
to be inferred, that the results of human exertion may be im-
mensely increased by diversifying its objects. When all the
different kinds of industry obtain in a community, each indivi-
dual can find his proper element, and can call into activity, the
whole vigor of his nature. And the community is benefited by
the services of its respective members, in the manner in which
each can serve it with most effect.

If there be any thing in a remark often to be met with,
namely, that there is, in the genius of the people of this
country, a peculiar aptitude for mechanic improvements, it would
operate as a forcible reason for giving opportunities to the
exercise of that species of talent, by the propagation of manu-
factures.

210 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 34.

6. As to the affording a more ample and various field for enterprise.

This also is of greater consequence in the general scale of
national exertion, than might, perhaps, on a superficial view be
supposed, and has effects not altogether dissimilar from those of
the circumstance last noticed. To cherish and stimulate the ac-
tivity of the human mind, by multiplying the objects of enter-
prise, is not among the least considerable of the expedients by
which the wealth of a nation may be promoted. Even things
in themselves not positively advantageous, sometimes become
so, by their tendency to provoke exertion. Every new scene
which is opened to the busy nature of man to rouse and exert
itself, is the addition of a new energy to the general stock of
effort.

The spirit of enterprise, useful and prolific as it is, must
necessarily be contracted or expanded, in proportion to the sim-
plicity or variety of the occupations and productions which are
to be found in a society. It must be less in a nation of mere
cultivators, than in a nation of cultivators and merchants ; less
in a nation of cultivators and merchants, than in a nation of cul-
tivators, artificers, and merchants.

7. As to the creating, in some instances, a new, and securing in all,

a more certain and steady demand, for the surplus produce of the
soil.

This is among the most important of the circumstances which
have been indicated. It is a principal mean by which the estab-
lishment of manufactures contributes to an augmentation of the
produce or revenue of a country, and has an immediate and
direct relation to the prosperity of agriculture.

It is evident, that the exertions of the husbandman will be
steady or fluctuating, vigorous or feeble, in proportion to the
steadiness or fluctuation, adequateness or inadequateness of the
markets on which he must depend, for the vent of the surplus
which may be produced by his labor; and that such surplus, in
the ordinary course of things, will be greater or less in the same
proportion.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 211

For the purpose of this vent, a domestic market is greatly
to be preferred to a foreign one ; because it is, in the nature of
things, far more to be relied upon.

It is a primary object of the policy of nations, to be able to
supply themselves with subsistence from their own soils ; and
manufacturing nations, as far as circumstances permit, endeavor
to procure from the same source, the raw materials necessary for
their own fabrics. This disposition, urged by the spirit of mono-
poly, is sometimes even carried to an injudicious extreme. It seems
not always to be recollected, that nations, who have neither
mines nor manufactures, can only obtain the manufactured
articles of which they stand in need, by an exchange of the pro-
ducts of their soils; and that, if those who can best furnish
them with such articles, are unwilling to give a due course to
this exchange, they must, of necessity, make every possible
effort to manufacture for themselves ; the effect of which is, that
the manufacturing nations abridge the natural advantages of
their situation, through an unwillingness to permit the agricul-
tural countries to enjoy the advantages of theirs, and sacrifice
the interests of a mutually beneficial intercourse to the vain pro-
ject of selling every thing and buying nothing.

But it is also a consequence of the policy which has been noted,
that the foreign demand for the products of agricultural coun-
tries, is, in a great degree, rather casual and occasional, than
certain or constant. To what extent injurious interruptions of
the demand for some of the staple commodities of the United
States may have been experienced from that cause, must be re-
ferred to the judgment of those who are engaged in carrying
on the commerce of the country ; but, it may be safely affirmed,
that such interruptions are, at times, very inconveniently felt,
and that cases not unfrequently occur, in which markets are so
confined and restricted, as to render the demand very unequal
to the supply.

Independently, likewise, of the artificial impediments which
are created by the policy in question, there are natural causes
tending to render the external demand for the surplus of agri-
cultural nations a precarious reliance. The differences of sea-
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 34.

sons in the countries which are the consumers, make immense
differences in the produce of their own soils, in different years ;
and consequently in the degrees of their necessity for foreign
supply. Plentiful harvests with them, especially if similar ones
occur at the same time in the countries which are the furnishers,
occasion, of course, a glut in the markets of the latter.

Considering how fast, and how much the progress of new
settlements, in the United States, must increase the surplus pro-
duce of the soil, and weighing seriously the tendency of the sys-
tem which prevails among most of the commercial nations of
Europe ; whatever dependence may be placed on the force of na-
tural circumstances to counteract the effects of an artificial policy,
there appear strong reasons to regard the foreign demand for
that surplus, as too uncertain a reliance, and to desire a substi-
tute for it in an extensive domestic market.

To secure such a market there is no other expedient than to
promote manufacturing establishments. Manufacturers, who
constitute the most numerous class, after the cultivators of land,
are for that reason the principal consumers of the surplus of their
labor.

This idea of an extensive domestic market for the surplus
produce of the soil, is of the first consequence. It is, of all
things, that which most effectually conduces to a flourishing state
of agriculture. If the effect of manufactories should be to de-
tach a portion of the hands which would otherwise be engaged
in tillage, it might possibly cause a smaller quantity of lands to
be under cultivation ; but, by their tendency to procure a more
certain demand for the surplus produce of the'soil, they would,
at the same time, cause the lands which were in cultivation to
be better improved and more productive. And while, by their
influence, the condition of each individual farmer would be meli-
orated, the total mass of agricultural production would probably
be increased. For this must evidently depend as much upon
the degree of improvement, if not more, than upon the number
of acres under culture.

It merits particular observation, that the multiplication of
manufactories not only furnishes a market for those articles

Mix: 34.] MANUFACTURES. 213

which have been accustomed to be produced in abundance in a
country ; but it likewise creates a demand for such as were
either unknown, or produced in inconsiderable quantities. The
bowels, as well as the surface of the earth, are ransacked for arti-
cles which were before neglected. Animals, plants, and minerals,
acquire an utility and value which were before unexplored.

The foregoing considerations seem sufficient to establish, as
general propositions, that it is the interest of nations to diversify
the industrious pursuits of the individuals who compose them.
That the establishment of manufactures is calculated not only
to increase the general stock of useful and productive labor, but
even to improve the state of agriculture in particular ; certainly
to advance the interests of those who are engaged in it. There
are other views that will be hereafter taken of the subject, which
it is conceived will serve to confirm these inferences.

III. Previously to a further discussion of the objections to the
encouragement of manufactures, which have been stated, it will
be of use to see what can be said in reference to the particular
situation of the United States, against the conclusions appearing
to result from what has been already offered.

It may be observed, and the idea is of no inconsiderable
weight, that, however true it might be, that a State which, pos-
sessing large tracts of vacant and fertile territory, was, at the
same time, secluded from foreign commerce, would find its in-
terest and the interest of agriculture, in diverting a part of its
population from tillage to manufactures ; yet it will not follow,
that the same is true of a State which, having such vacant and
fertile territory, has, at the same time, ample opportunity of
procuring from abroad, on good terms, all the fabrics of which
it stands in need, for the supply of its inhabitants. The power
of doing this, at least secures the great advantage of a division
of labor, leaving the farmer free to pursue, exclusively, the cul-
ture of his land, and enabling him to procure with its products
the manufactured supplies requisite either to his wants or to his
enjoyments. And though it should be true that, in settled
countries, the diversification of industry is conducive to an in-
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[JEt. 34.

crease in the productive powers of labor, and to an augmentation
of revenue and capital ; yet it is scarcely conceivable that there
can be any thing of so solid and permanent advantage to an un-
cultivated and unpeopled country, as to convert its wastes into
cultivated and inhabited districts. If the revenue, in the mean
time, should be less, the capital, in the event, must be greater.

To these observations, the following appears to be a satisfac-
tory answer :

1st. If the system of perfect liberty to industry and com-
merce were the prevailing system of nations, the arguments
which dissuade a country, in the predicament of the United
States, from the zealous pursuit of manufactures, would doubt-
less have great force. It will not be affirmed that they might
not be permitted, with few exceptions, to serve as a rule of
national conduct. In such a state of things, each country would
have the full benefit of its peculiar advantages to compensate for
its deficiencies or disadvantages. If one nation were in a condi-
tion to supply manufactured articles, on better terms than an-
other, that other might find an abundant indemnification in a
superior capacity to furnish the produce of the soil. And a free
exchange, mutually beneficial, of the commodities which each
was able to supply, on the best terms, might be carried on be-
tween them, supporting, in full vigor, the industry of each. And
though the circumstances which have been mentioned, and
others which will be unfolded hereafter, render it probable that
nations, merely agricultural, would not enjoy the same degree of
opulence, in proportion to their numbers, as those which united
manufactures with agriculture ; yet the progressive improve-
ment of the lands of the former might, in the end, atone for an
inferior degree of opulence in the mean time ; and in a case in
which opposite considerations are pretty equally balanced, the
option ought, perhaps, always to be in favor of leaving industry
to its own direction.

But the system which has been mentioned, is far from charac-
terizing the general policy of nations. The prevalent one has
been regulated by an opposite spirit. The consequence of it is,

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 215

that the United States are, to a certain extent, in the situation
of a country precluded from foreign commerce. They can, in-
deed, without difficulty, obtain from abroad the manufactured
supplies of which they are in want ; but they experience numer-
ous and very injurious impediments to the emission and vent
of their own commodities. Nor is this the case in reference to
a single foreign nation only. The regulations of several coun-
tries, with which we have the most extensive intercourse, throw
serious obstructions in the way of the principal staples of the
United States.

In such a position of things, the United States cannot ex-
change with Europe on equal terms ; and the want of recipro-
city would render them the victim of a system which should
induce them to confine their views to agriculture, and refrain
from manufactures. A constant and increasing necessity, on
their part, for the commodities of Europe, and only a partial
and occasional demand for their own, in return, could not but
expose them to a state of impoverishment, compared with the
opulence to which their political and natural advantages author-
ize them to aspire.

Kemarks of this kind are not made in the spirit of complaint.
It is for the nations whose regulations are alluded to, to judge
for themselves, whether, by aiming at too much, they do not
lose more than they gain. It is for the United States to con-
sider by what means they can render themselves least dependent
on the combinations, right or wrong, of foreign policy.

It is no small consolation, that, already, the measures which
have embarrassed our trade, have accelerated internal improve-
ments, which, upon the whole, have bettered our affairs. To
diversify and extend these improvements is the surest and safest
method of indemnifying ourselves for any inconveniences which
those or similar measures have a tendency to beget. If Europe
will not take from us the products of our soil, upon terms con-
sistent with our interest, the natural remedy is to contract, as
fast as possible, our wants of her.

2d. The conversion of their waste into cultivated lands, is
certainly a point of great moment, in the political calcula-

216 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

tions of the United States. But the degree in which this
may possibly be retarded, by the encouragement of manufac-
tories, does not appear to countervail the powerful inducements
to afford that encouragement.

An observation made in another place, is of a nature to have
great influence upon this question. If it cannot be denied, that the
interests, even of agriculture, may be advanced more by having
such of the lands of a State as are occupied, under good cultiva-
tion, than by having a greater quantity occupied under a much
inferior cultivation ; and if manufactories, for the reasons assign-
ed, must be admitted to have a tendency to promote a more
steady and vigorous cultivation of the lands occupied, than
would happen without them, it will follow that they are capable
of indemnifying a country for a diminution of the progress of
new settlements; and may serve to increase both the capital
value, and the income of its lands, even though they should
abridge the number of acres under tillage.

But it does by no means follow, that the progress of new
settlements would be retarded by the extension of manufactures.
The desire of being an independent proprietor of land, is found-
ed on such strong principles in the human breast, that, where
the opportunity of becoming so is as great as it is in the United
States, the proportion will be small of those whose situations
would otherwise lead to it, who would be diverted from it to-
wards manufactures. And it is highly probable, as already in-
timated, that the accessions of foreigners, who, originally drawn
over by manufacturing views, would afterwards abandon them
for agricultural, would be more than an equivalent for those of
our own citizens who might happen to be detached from them.

The remaining objections to a particular encouragement of
manufactures in the United States, now require to be examined.

One of these turns on the proposition, that industry, if left
to itself, will naturally find its way to the most useful and pro-
fitable employment. Whence it is inferred, that manufactures,
without the aid of government, will grow up as soon and as
fast as the natural state of things and the interest of the com-
munity may require.

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 217

Against the solidity of this hypothesis, in the full latitude of
the terms, very cogent reasons may be offered These have re-
lation to the strong influence of habit and the spirit of imi-
tation ; the fear of want of success in untried enterprises ; the
intrinsic difficulties incident to first essays towards a competition
with those who have previously attained to perfection in the
business to be attempted; the bounties, premiums, and other
artificial encouragements, with which foreign nations second the
exertions of their own citizens, in the branches in which they
are to be rivalled.

Experience teaches, that men are often so much governed
by what they are accustomed to see and practise, that the sim-
plest and most obvious improvements, in the most ordinary oc-
cupations, are adopted with hesitation, reluctance, and by slow
gradations. The spontaneous transition to new pursuits, in a
community long habituated to different ones, may be expected
to be attended with proportionably greater difficulty. When
former occupations ceased to yield a profit adequate to the
subsistence of their followers ; or when there was an absolute
deficiency of employment in them, owing to the superabundance
of hands, changes would ensue ; but these changes would
be likely to be more tardy than might consist with the in-
terest either of individuals or of the society. In many cases
they would not happen, while a bare support could be in-
sured by an adherence to ancient courses, though a resort to
a more profitable employment might be practicable. To pro-
duce the desirable changes as early as may be expedient,
may therefore require the incitement and patronage of govern-
ment.

The apprehension of failing in new attempts, is, perhaps, a
more serious impediment. There are dispositions apt to be at-
tracted by the mere novelty of an undertaking ; but these are
not always those best calculated to give it success. To this it
is of importance that the confidence of cautious, sagacious capi-
talists, both citizens and foreigners, should be excited. And to
inspire this description of persons with confidence, it is essential
that they should be made to see in any project which is new —

c 15

218 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

and for that reason alone, if for no other, precarious — the pros-
pect of such a degree of countenance and support from govern-
ment, as may be capable of overcoming the obstacles inseparable
from first experiments.

The superiority antecedently enjoyed by nations who have
preoccupied and perfected a branch of industry, constitutes a
more formidable obstacle than either of those which have been
mentioned, to the introduction of the same branch into a country
in which it did not before exist. To maintain, between the re-
cent establishments of one country, and the long matured estab-
lishments of another country, a competition upon equal terms,
both as to quality and price, is, in most cases, impracticable.
The disparity, in the one, or in the other, or in both, must neces-
sarily be so considerable, as to forbid a successful rivalship, with-
out the extraordinary aid and protection of government.

But the greatest obstacle of all to the successful prosecution
of a new branch of industry in a country in which it was before
unknown, consists, as far as the instances apply, in the bounties,
premiums, and other aids, which are granted in a variety of cases,
by the nations in which the establishments to be imitated are
previously introduced. It is well known (and particular exam-
ples, in the course of this report, will be cited) that certain na-
tions grant bounties on the exportation of particular commodities,
to enable their own workmen to undersell and supplant all com-
petitors in the countries to which those commodities are sent.
Hence the undertakers of a new manufacture have to contend,
not only with the natural disadvantages of a new undertaking,
but with the gratuities and remunerations which other govern-
ments bestow. To be enabled to contend with success, it is evi-
dent that the interference and aid of their own governments are
indispensable.

Combinations by those engaged in a particular branch of
business, in one country, to frustrate the first efforts to introduce
it into another, by temporary sacrifices, recompensed, perhaps,
by extraordinary indemnifications of the government of such
country, are believed to have existed, and are not to be regarded
as destitute of probability. The existence or assurance of aid

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 219

from the government of the country in which the business is to
be introduced, may be essential to fortify adventurers against the
dread of such combinations ; to defeat their effects, if formed ;
and to prevent their being formed, by demonstrating that they
must in the end prove fruitless.

Whatever room there may be for an expectation, that the in-
dustry of a people, under the direction of private interest, will,
upon equal terms, find out the most beneficial employment for
itself, there is none for a reliance, that it will struggle against the
force of unequal terms, or will, of itself, surmount all the adven-
titious barriers to a successful competition, which may have been
erected, either by the advantages naturally acquired from prac-
tice, and previous possession of the ground, or by those which
may have sprung from positive regulations and an artificial
policy. This general reflection might alone suffice as an answer
to the objection under examination, exclusively of the weighty
considerations which have been particularly urged.

The objections to the pursuit of manufactures in the United
States, which next present themselves to discussion, represent an
impracticability of success, arising from three causes: scarcity of
hands, dearness of labor, want of capital.

The two first circumstances are, to a certain extent, real ; and,
within due limits, ought to be admitted as obstacles to the suc-
cess of manufacturing enterprise in the United States. But there
are various considerations which lessen their force, and tend to
afford an assurance, that they are not sufficient to prevent the
advantageous prosecution of many very useful and extensive
manufactories.

With regard to scarcity of hands, the fact itself must be ap-
plied with no small qualification to certain parts of the United
States. There are large districts which may be considered as
pretty fully peopled; and which, notwithstanding a continual
drain for distant settlement, are thickly interspersed with flour-
ishing and increasing towns. If these districts have not already
reached the point at which the complaint of scarcity of hands
ceases, they are not remote from it, and are approaching fast to-
wards it; and having, perhaps, fewer attractions to agriculture

220 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

than some other parts of the Union, they exhibit a proportionally
stronger tendency towards other kinds of industry. In these dis-
tricts may be discerned no inconsiderable maturity for manufac-
turing establishments.

But there are circumstances, which have been already noticed,
with another view, that materially diminish, every where, the
effect of a scarcity of hands. These circumstances are, the great
use which can be made of women and children, on which point
a very pregnant and instructive fact has been mentioned — the
vast extension given by late improvements to the employment
of machines — which, substituting the agency of fire and water,
has prodigiously lessened the necessity for manual labor ; the
employment of persons ordinarily engaged in other occupations,
during the seasons or hours of leisure, which, besides giving oc-
casion to the exertion of a greater quantity of labor, by the same
number of persons, and thereby increasing the general stock of
labor, as has been elsewhere remarked, may also be taken into
the calculation, as a resource for obviating the scarcity of hands ;
lastly, the attraction of foreign emigrants. Whoever inspects,
with a careful eye, the composition of our towns, will be made
sensible to what an extent this resource may be relied upon.
This exhibits a large proportion of ingenious and valuable work-
men, in different arts and trades, who, by expatriating from Eu-
rope, have improved their own condition, and added to the in-
dustry and wealth of the United States. It is a natural inference,
from the experience we have already had, that, as soon as the
United States shall present the countenance of a serious prosecu-
tion of manufactures ; as soon as foreign artists shall be made
sensible that the state of things here affords a moral certainty of
employment and encouragement ; competent numbers of Euro-
pean workmen will transplant themselves, effectually to insure
the success of the design. How, indeed, can it otherwise happen,
considering the various and powerful inducements which the
situation of this country offers — addressing themselves to so
many strong passions and feelings, to so many general and par-
ticular interests.

It may be affirmed, therefore, in respect to hands for carrying

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 221

on manufactures, that we shall, in a great measure, trade upon a
foreign stock, reserving our own for the cultivation of our lands
and the manning of our ships, as far as character and circum-
stances shall incline. It is not unworthy of remark, that the ob-
jection to the success of manufactures, deduced from the scarcity
of hands, is alike applicable to trade and navigation, and yet
these are perceived to flourish, without any sensible impediment
from that cause.

As to the dearness of labor (another of the obstacles alleged),
this has relation principally to two circumstances : one, that which
has been just discussed, or the scarcity of hands; the other, the
greatness of profits.

As far as it is a consequence of the scarcity of hands, it is
mitigated by all the considerations which have been adduced as
lessening that deficiency. It is certain, too, that the disparity in
this respect, between some of the most manufacturing parts of
Europe, and a large proportion of the United States, is not nearly
so great as is commonly imagined. It is also much less in regard
to artificers and manufacturers, than in regard to country labor-
ers ; and while a careful comparison shows that there is, in this
particular, much exaggeration ; it is also evident, that the effect
of the degree of disparity, which does truly exist, is diminished
in proportion to the use which can be made of machinery.

To illustrate this last idea, let it be supposed that the differ-
ence of price, in two countries, of a given quantity of manual la-
bor, requisite to the fabrication of a given article, is as ten ; and
that some mechanic power is introduced into both countries,
which, performing half the necessary labor, leaves only half to
be done by hand ; it is evident that the difference in the cost of
the fabrication of the article in question, in the two countries, as
far as it is connected with the price of labor, will be reduced from
ten to five, in consequence of the introduction of that power.

This circumstance is worthy of the most particular attention.
It diminishes immensely one of the objections most strenuously
urged against the success of manufactures in the United States.

To procure all such machines as are known in any part of
Europe, can only require a proper provision and due pains. The

222 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

knowledge of several of the most important of them is already
possessed. The preparation of them here is, in most cases, prac-
ticable on nearly equal terms. As far as they depend on water,
some superiority of advantages may be claimed, from the uncom-
mon variety and greater cheapness of situations adapted to mill-
seats, with which different parts of the United States abound.

So far as the dearness of labor may be a consequence of the
greatness of profits in any branch of business, it is no obstacle to
its success. The undertaker can afford to pay the price.

There are grounds to conclude, that undertakers of manufac-
tures in this country, can, at this time, afford to pay higher wages
to the workmen they may employ, than are paid to similar work-
men in Europe. The prices of foreign fabrics, in the market of
the United States, which will, for a long time, regulate the prices
of the domestic ones, may be considered as compounded of the
following ingredients : The first cost of materials, including the
taxes, if any, which are paid upon them where they are made ;
the expense of grounds, buildings, machinery, and tools ; the
wages of the persons employed in the manufactory ; the profits
on the capital or stock employed ; the commissions of agents to
purchase them where they are made ; the expense of transporta-
tion to the United States, including insurance and other inciden-
tal charges ; the taxes or duties, if any, and fees of office, which
are paid on their exportation ; the taxes or duties, and fees of of-
fice, which are paid on their importation.

As to the first of these items, the cost of materials, the advan-
tage, upon the whole, is at present on the side of the United
States ; and the difference in their favor must increase, in pro-
portion as a certain and extensive domestic demand shall induce
the proprietors of land to devote more of their attention to the
production of those materials. It ought not to escape observa-
tion, in a comparison on this point, that some of the principal
manufacturing countries of Europe are much more dependent on
foreign supply, for the materials of their manufactures, than
would be the United States, who are capable of supplying them-
selves with a greater abundance, as well as a greater variety of
the requisite materials.

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 223

As to the second item, the expense of grounds, buildings,
machinery, and tools, an equality, at least, may be assumed ;
since advantages, in some particulars, will counterbalance tem-
porary disadvantages in others.

As to the third item, or the article of wages, the comparison
certainly turns against the United States ; though, as before ob-
served, not in so great a degree as commonly supposed.

The fourth item is alike applicable to the foreign and to the
domestic manufacture. It is, indeed,, more properly a result, than
a particular to be compared.

But, with respect to all the remaining items, they are alone
applicable to the foreign manufacture, and, in the strictest sense,
extraordinaries ; constituting a sum of extra charge on the foreign
fabric, which cannot be estimated at less than from fifteen to
thirty per cent on the cost of it at the manufactory.

This sum of extra charge may confidently be regarded as
more than a counterpoise for the real difference in the price of
labor ; and is a satisfactory proof that manufactures may prosper,
in defiance of it, in the United States.

To the general allegation, connected with the circumstances
of scarcity of hands and dearness of labor, that extensive manu-
factures can only grow out of a redundant or full population, it
will be sufficient to answer generally, that the fact has been
otherwise. That the situation alleged to be an essential condi-
tion of success, has not been that of several nations, at periods
when they had already attained to maturity in a variety of man-
ufactures.

The supposed want of capital for the prosecution of manufac-
tures in the United States, is the most indefinite of the objections
which are usually opposed to it.

It is very difficult to pronounce any thing precise concerning
the real extent of the moneyed capital of a country, and still
more, concerning the proportion which it bears to the objects
that invite the employment of capital. It is not less difficult to
pronounce, how far the effect of any given quantity of money, as
capital, or in other words, as a medium for circulating the indus-
try and property of a nation, may be increased by the very cir-
HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[JEt. 34.

cumstance of the additional motion which is given to it, by new
objects of employment. That effect, like the momentum of de-
scending bodies, may not improperly be represented as in a com-
pound ratio to mass and velocity. It seems pretty certain, that
a given sum of money, in a situation in which the quick impulses
of commercial activity were little felt, would appear inadequate
to the circulation of as great a quantity of industry and property,
as in one in which their full influence was experienced.

It is not obvious why the same objection might not as well be
made to external commerce as to manufactures : since it is mani-
fest, that our immense tracts of land, occupied and unoccupied,
are capable of giving employment to more capital than is actually
bestowed upon them. It is certain that the United States offer
a vast field for the advantageous employment of capital ; but it
does not follow that there will not be found, in one way or ano-
ther, a sufficient fund for the successful prosecution of any species
of industry which is likely to prove truly beneficial.

The following considerations are of a nature to remove all
inquietude on the score of want of capital :

The introduction of banks, as has been shown on another oc-
casion, has a powerful tendency to extend the active capital of a
country. Experience of the utility of these institutions, is mul-
tiplying them in the United States. It is probable that they will
be established wherever they can exist with advantage; and
wherever they can be supported, if administered with prudence,
they will add new energies to all pecuniary operations.

The aid of foreign capital may safely, and with considerable
latitude, be taken into calculation. Its instrumentality has been
long experienced in our external commerce ; and it has begun to
be felt in various other modes. Not only our funds, but our
agriculture, and other internal improvements, have been anima-
ted by it. It has already, in a few instances, extended even to
our manufactures.

It is a well known fact that there are parts of Europe which
have more capital than profitable domestic objects of employ-
ment. Hence, among other proofs, the large loans continually
furnished to foreign States. And it is equally certain, that the

jEt.34.] manufactures. 225

capital of other parts may find more profitable employment in
the United States than at home. And, notwithstanding there
are weighty inducements to prefer the employment of capital at
home, even at less profit, to an investment of it abroad, though
with greater gain, yet these inducements are overruled, either by
a deficiency of employment, or by a very material difference in
profit. Both these causes operate to produce a transfer of foreign
capital to the United States. It is certain, that various objects in
this country hold out advantages, which are with difficulty to be
equalled elsewhere ; and under the increasingly favorable impres-
sions which are entertained of our Government, the attractions
will become more and more strong. These impressions will
prove a rich mine of prosperity to the country, if they are con-
firmed and strengthened by the progress of our affairs. And, to
secure this advantage, little more is now necessary than to foster
industry, and cultivate order and tranquillity at home and abroad.

It is not impossible, that there may be persons disposed to
look, with a jealous eye, on the introduction of foreign capital, as
if it were an instrument to deprive our own citizens of the profits
of our own industry ; but, perhaps, there never could be a more
unreasonable jealousy. Instead of being viewed as a rival, it
ought to be considered as a most valuable auxiliary, conducing
to put in motion a greater quantity of productive labor, and a
greater portion of useful enterprise, than could exist without it.
It is at least evident, that, in a country situated like the United
States, with an infinite fund of resources yet to be unfolded,
every farthing of foreign capital which is laid out in internal
meliorations, and in industrious establishments, of a permanent
nature, is a precious acquisition.

And, whatever be the objects which originally attract foreign
capital, when once introduced, it may be directed towards any
purpose of beneficial exertion which is desired. And to detain
it among us, there can be no expedient so effectual, as to enlarge
the sphere within which it may be usefully employed : though
introduced merely with views to speculations in the funds, it may
afterwards be rendered subservient to the interests of agriculture,
commerce, and manufactures.

226 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

But the attraction of foreign capital for the direct purpose of
manufactures, ought not to be deemed a chimerical expectation.
There are already examples of it, as remarked in another place.
And the examples, if the disposition be cultivated, can hardly
fail to multiply. There are, also, instances of another kind,
which serve to strengthen the expectation. Enterprises for im-
proving the public communications, by cutting canals, opening
the obstructions in rivers, and erecting bridges, have received
very material aid from the same source.

When the manufacturing capitalist of Europe shall advert to
the many important advantages which have been intimated in
the course of this report, he cannot but perceive very powerful
inducements to a transfer of himself and his capital to the United
States. Among the reflections which a most interesting peculi-
arity of situation is calculated to suggest, it cannot escape his ob-
servation, as a circumstance of moment in the calculation, that
the progressive population and improvement of the United States
insure a continually increasing domestic demand for the fabrics
which he shall produce, not to be affected by any external casu-
alties or vicissitudes.

But, while there are circumstances sufficiently strong to au-
thorize a considerable degree of reliance on the aid of foreign
capital, towards the attainment of the object in view, it is satis-
factory to have good grounds of assurance, that there are domes-
tic resources, of themselves adequate to it. It happens that there
is a species of capital, actually existing with the United States,
which relieves from all inquietude, on the score of want of capi-
tal. This is the funded debt.

The effect of a funded debt, as a species of capital, has been
noticed upon a former occasion ; but a more particular elucida-
tion of the point seems to be required, by the stress which is
here laid upon it. This shall, accordingly, be attempted.

Public funds answer the purpose of capital, from the estima-
tion in which they are usually held by moneyed men ; and, con-
sequently, from the ease and dispatch with which they can be
turned into money. This capacity of prompt convertibility into
money, causes a transfer of stock to be, in a great number of

At. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 227

cases, equivalent to a payment in coin. And where it does not
happen to suit the party who is to receive, to accept a transfer
of stock, the party who is to pay is never at a loss to find, else-
where, a purchaser of his stock, who will furnish him, in lieu of
it, with the coin of which he stands in need.

Hence, in a sound and settled state of the public funds, a
man possessed of a sum in them, can embrace any scheme of
business which offers, with as much confidence as if he were
possessed of an equal sum in coin.

This operation of public funds as capital, is too obvious to
be denied ; but it is objected to the idea of their operating as an
augmentation of the capital of the community, that they serve
to occasion the destruction of some other capital, to an equal
amount.

The capital, which alone they can be supposed to destroy, must
consist of —

The annual revenue, which is applied to the payment of in-
terest on the debt, and to the gradual redemption of the princi-
pal ; the amount of the coin, which is employed in circulating
the funds, or, in other words, in effecting the different aliena-
tions which they undergo.

But the following appears to be the true and accurate view
of this matter.

1st. As to the point of the annual revenue requisite for pay-
ment of interest and redemption of principal.

As a determinate proportion will tend to perspicuity in the
reasoning, let it be supposed, that the annual revenue to be ap-
plied, corresponding with the modification of the six per cent,
stock of the United States, is in the ratio of eight upon the hun-
dred ; that is, in the first instance, six on account of interest,
and two on account of principal.

Thus far, it is evident, that the capital destroyed, to the capi-
tal created, would bear no greater proportion than eight to one
hundred. There would be withdrawn, from the total mass of
other capitals, a sum of eight dollars to be paid to the public
creditor ; while he would be possessed of a sum of one hundred
dollars, ready to be applied to any purpose, to be embarked in
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 34.

any enterprise which might appear to him eligible. Here, then,
the augmentation of capital, or the excess of that which is pro-
duced beyond that which is destroyed, is equal to ninety-two
dollars.

To this conclusion, it may be objected, that the sum of eight
dollars is to be withdrawn annually, until the whole hundred is
extinguished ; and it may be inferred, that, in process of time, a
capital will be destroyed equal to that which is at first created.

But it is nevertheless true, that, during the whole of the in-
terval, between the creation of the capital of one hundred dol-
lars, and its reduction to a sum not greater than that of the an-
nual revenue appropriated to its redemption, there will be a
greater active capital in existence than if no debt had been con-
tracted. The sum drawn from other capitals in any one year, will
not exceed eight dollars ; but there will be, at every instant of
time, during the whole period in question, a sum corresponding
with so much of the principal as remains unredeemed, in the
hands of some person or other, employed or ready to be employ-
ed, in some profitable undertaking. There will, therefore, con-
stantly be more capital in capacity to be employed, than capital
taken from employment. The excess, for the first year, has
been stated to be ninety-two dollars ; it will diminish yearly ;
but there always will be an excess, until the principal of the
debt is brought to a level with the redeeming annuity ; that is,
in the case which has been assumed, by Avay of example, to
eight dollars. The reality of this excess becomes palpable, if it
be supposed, as often happens, that the citizen of a foreign
country imports into the United States one hundred dollars for
the purchase of an equal sum of public debt — here is an abso-
lute augmentation of the mass of circulating coin to the extent of
one hundred dollars. At the end of the year, the foreigner is
presumed to draw back eight dollars, on account of his principal
and interest, but he still leaves ninety-two of his original depo-
sit in circulation, as he, in like manner, leaves eighty-four at
the end of the second year, drawing back then, also, the annuity
of eight dollars. And thus the matter proceeds : the capital left
in circulation diminishing, in each year, and coming nearer to

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 229

the level of the annuity drawn back. There are, however, some
differences in the ultimate operation of the part of the debt
which is purchased by foreigners, and that which remains in the
hands of citizens. But the general effect in each case, though
in different degrees, is, to add to the active capital of the
country.

Hitherto, the reasoning has proceeded on a concession of the
position, that there is a destruction of some other capital, to the
extent of the annuity appropriated to the payment of the in-
terest, and the redemption of the principal of the debt ; but in
this too much has been conceded. There is, at most, a tempo-
rary transfer of some other capital, to the amount of the annuity,
from those who pay, to the creditor, who receives; which he
again restores to the circulation, to resume the offices of a capital.
This he does either immediately, by employing the money in
some branch of industry, or mediately, by lending it to some
other person, who does so employ it, or by spending it on his
own maintenance. In either supposition, there is no destruction
of capital ; there is nothing more than a suspension of its mo-
tion for a time : that is, while it is passing from the hands of
those who pay into the public coffers, and thence, through the
public creditor, into some other channel of circulation. When
the payments of interest are periodical and quick, and made by
the instrumentality of banks, the diversion or suspension of cap-
ital may almost be denominated momentary. Hence the deduc-
tion, on this account, is far less than it at first sight appears to be.

There is, evidently, as far as regards the annuity, no destruc-
tion nor transfer of any other capital than that portion of the
income of each individual, which goes to make up the annuity.
The land which furnishes the farmer with the sum which he is
to contribute, remains the same ; and the like may be observed
of other capitals. Indeed, as far as the tax, which is the object
of contribution (as frequently happens, when it does not oppress
by its weight) may have been a motive to greater exertion in
any occupation, it may even serve to increase the contributory
capital. This idea is not without importance in the general
view of the subject.

230 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. M.

It remains to see what farther deduction ought to be made
from the capital which is created, by the existence of the debt,
od account of the coin which is employed in its circulation. This
is susceptible of much less precise calculation than the article
which has been just discussed. It is impossible to say what
proportion of coin is necessary to carry on the alienations which
any species of property usually undergoes. The quantity,
indeed, varies according to circumstances. But it may still,
without hesitation, be pronounced, from the quickness of the
rotation, or, rather, of the transitions, that the medium of circu-
lation always bears but a small proportion to the amount of the
property circulated. And it is thence satisfactorily deducible,
that the coin employed in the negotiations of the funds, and
which serves to give them activity, as capital, is incomparably
less than the sum of the debt negotiated for the purpose of
business.

It ought not, however, to be omitted, that the negotiation of
the funds becomes itself a distinct business, which employs, and,
by employing, diverts, a portion of the circulating coin from
other pursuits. But, making due allowance for this circumstance,
there is no reason to conclude that the effect of the diversion of
coin, in the whole operation, bears any considerable proportion to
the amount of the capital to which it gives activity. The sum
of the debt in circulation is continually at the command of any
useful enterprise ; the coin itself, which circulates it, is never
more than momentarily suspended from its ordinary functions.
It experiences an incessant and rapid flux and reflux, to and
from the channels of industry, to those of speculations in the
funds.

There are strong circumstances in confirmation of this theory.
The force of moneyed capital, which has been displayed in Great
Britain, and the height to which every species of industry has
grown up under it, defy a solution, from the quantity of coin
which that kingdom has ever possessed. Accordingly, it has
been, coeval with its funding system, the prevailing opinion of
the men of business, and of the generality of the most sagacious
theorists of that country, that the operation of the public funds,

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 231

as capital, has contributed to the effect in question. Among
ourselves, appearances, thus far, favor the same conclusion.
Industry, in general, seems to have been reanimated. There
are symptoms indicating an extension of our commerce. Our
navigation has certainly, of late, had a considerable spring ; and
there appears to be, in many parts of the Union, a command of
capital, which, till lately, since the Revolution, at least, was
unknown. But, it is, at the same time, to be acknowledged, that
other circumstances have concurred (and in a great degree) in
producing the present state of things, and that the appearances
are not yet sufficiently decisive to be entirely relied upon.

In the question under discussion, it is important to distinguish
between an absolute increase of capital, or an accession of real
wealth, and an artificial increase of capital, as an engine of business,
or as an instrument of industry and commerce. In the first sense,
a funded debt has no pretensions to being deemed an increase of
capital ; in the last, it has pretensions which are not easy to be
controverted. Of a similar nature is bank credit; and, in an
inferior degree, every species of private credit.

But, though a funded debt is not, in the first instance, an
absolute increase of capital, or an augmentation of real wealth ;
yet, by serving as a new power in the operations of industry, it
has, within certain bounds, a tendency to increase the real
wealth of a communit}r, in like manner, as money, borrowed
by a thrifty farmer, to be laid out in the improvement of his
farm, may, in the end, add to his stock of real riches.

There are respectable individuals, who, from a just aversion
to an accumulation of public debt, are unwilling to concede to it
any kind of utility ; who can discern no good to alleviate the ill
with which they suppose it pregnant ; who cannot be persuaded
that it ought, in any sense, to be viewed as an increase of capital,
lest it should be inferred, that, the more debt, the more capital ;
the greater the burthens, the greater the blessings of the com-
munity.

But it interests the public councils to estimate every object
as it truly is ; to appreciate how far the good, in any measure, is
compensated by the ill, or the ill by the good : either of them is
seldom unmixed.

232 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

Neither will it follow that an accumulation of debt is desira-
ble, because a certain degree of it operates as capital. There
may be a plethora in the political as in the natural body ; there
may be a state of things in which any such artificial capital is
unnecessary. The debt, too, may be swelled to such a size as
that the greatest part of it may cease to be useful as a capital,
serving only to pamper the dissipation of idle and dissolute in-
dividuals ; as that the sums required to pay the interest upon it
may become oppressive, and beyond the means which a govern-
ment can employ, consistently with its tranquillity, to raise them ;
as that the resources of taxation to face the debt may have been
strained too far to admit of extensions adequate to exigencies
which regard the public safety.

Where this critical point is, cannot be pronounced ; but it is
impossible to believe that there is not such a point.

And as the vicissitudes of nations beget a perpetual tendency
to the accumulation of debt, there ought to be, in every govern-
ment, a perpetual, anxious, and unceasing effort to reduce that
which at any time exists, as fast as shall be practicable, consist-
ently with integrity and good faith.

Eeasonings on a subject comprehending ideas so abstract and
complex, so little reducible to a precise calculation, as those
which enter into the question just discussed, are always attended
with a danger of running into fallacies. Due allowance ought,
therefore, to be made for this possibility. But, as far as the
nature of the subject admits of it, there appears to be satisfactory
ground for a belief that the public funds operate as a resource of
capital to the citizens of the United States ; and, if they are a
resource at all, it is an extensive one.

To all the arguments which are brought to evince the im-
practicability of success in manufacturing establishments in the
United States, it might have been a sufficient answer to have
referred to the experience of what has been already done. It is
certain that several important branches have grown up and
flourished, with a rapidity which surprises, affording an en-
couraging assurance of success in future attempts. Of these it
may not be improper to enumerate the most considerable :

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 233

1. Of Skins. — Tanned and tawed leather, dressed skins, shoes,
boots, and slippers, harness and saddlery of all kinds, portman-
teaus and trunks, leather breeches, gloves, muffs, and tippets,
parchment and glue.

2. Of Iron. — Bar and sheet iron, steel, nail rods and nails, im-
plements of husbandry, stoves, pots, and other household utensils,
the steel and iron work of carriages, and for ship building,
anchors, scale beams and weights, and various tools of artificers,
arms of different kinds ; though the manufacture of these last
has of late diminished for want of demand.

3. Of Wood. — Ships, cabinet wares, and turnery, wool and
cotton cards, and other machinery for manufactures and hus-
bandry, mathematical instruments, coopers' wares of every kind.

4. Of Flax and Hemp. — Cables, sail cloth, cordage, twine,
and pack thread.

5. Bricks and coarse tiles, and potters' wares.

6. Ardent spirits and malt liquors.

7. Writing and printing paper, sheathing and wrapping
paper, pasteboard, fullers' or press papers, paper hangings.

8. Hats of fur and wool, and mixtures of both; women's
stuff and silk shoes.

9. Refined sugars.

10. Oils of animals and seeds, soap, spermaceti and tallow
candles.

11. Copper and brass wires, particularly utensils for distillers,
sugar refiners, and brewers; andirons and other articles for
household use, philosophical apparatus.

12. Tin wares for most purposes of ordinary use.

13. Carriages of all kinds.

14. Snuff, chewing and smoking tobacco.

15. Starch and hair-powder.

16. Lampblack, and other painters' colors.

17. Gunpowder.

Besides manufactories of these articles, which are carried on
as regular trades, and have attained to a considerable degree of
maturity, there is a vast scene of household manufacturing,
which contributes more largely to the supply of the community

c 16

234 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

than could be imagined, without having made it an object of
particular inquiry. This observation is the pleasing result of the
investigation to which the subject of this report has led, and is
applicable as well to the Southern as to the Middle and Northern
States. Great quantities of coarse cloths, coatings, serges, and
flannels, linsey woolseys, hosiery of wool, cotton, and thread,
coarse fustians, jeans, and muslins, checked and striped cotton
and linen goods, bed-ticks, coverlets and counterpanes, tow
linens, coarse shirtings, sheetings, towelling, and table linen, and
various mixtures of wool and cotton, and of cotton and flax, are
made in the household way, and, in many instances, to an extent
not only sufficient for the supply of the families in which they
are made, but for sale, and, even, in some cases, for exportation.
It is computed in a number of districts that two-thirds, three-
fourths, and even four-fifths, of all the clothing of the inhabitants,
are made by themselves. The importance of so great a progress
as appears to have been made in family manufactures, within a
few years, both in a moral and political view, renders the fact
highly interesting.

Neither does the above enumeration comprehend all the
articles that are manufactured, as regular trades. Many others
occur, which are equally well established, but which, not being
of equal importance, have been omitted. And there are many
attempts, still in their infancy, which though attended with very
favorable appearances, could not have been properly comprised
in an enumeration of manufactories already established. There
are other articles, also, of great importance, which, though,
strictly speaking, manufactures, are omitted, as being immediate-
ly connected with husbandry : such are flour, pot and pearl
ashes, pitch, tar, turpentine, and the like.

There remains to be noticed an objection to the encourage-
ment of manufactures, of a nature different from those which
question the probability of success. This is derived from its
supposed tendency to give a monopoly of advantages to particu-
lar classes, at the expense of the rest of the community, who, it
is affirmed, would be able to procure the requisite supplies of
manufactured articles on better terms from foreigners than from

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 235

our own citizens; and who, it is alleged, are reduced to the
necessity of paying an enhanced price for whatever they want,
by every measure which obstructs the free competition of foreign
commodities.

It is not an unreasonable supposition, that measures which
serve to abridge the free competition of foreign articles, have a
tendency to occasion an enhancement of prices ; and it is not to
be denied that such is the effect, in a number of cases ; but the
fact does not uniformly correspond with the theory. A reduc-
tion of prices has, in several instances, immediately succeeded
the establishment of a domestic manufacture. Whether it be
that foreign manufacturers endeavor to supplant, by underselling
our own, or whatever else be the cause, the effect has been such
as is stated, and the reverse of what might have been expected.

But, though it were true that the immediate and certain
effect of regulations controlling the competition of foreign with
domestic fabrics, was an increase of price, it is universally true
that the contrary is the ultimate effect with every successful
manufacture. When a domestic manufacture has attained to per-
fection, and has engaged in the prosecution of it a competent
number of persons, it invariably becomes cheaper. Being free
from the heavy charges which attend the importation of foreign
commodities, it can be afforded, and accordingly seldom never
fails to be sold, cheaper, in process of time, than was the foreign
article for which it is a substitute. The internal competition
which takes place, soon does away every thing like monopoly,
and by degrees reduces the price of the article to the minimum
of a reasonable profit on the capital employed. This accords
with the reason of the thing, and with experience.

Whence it follows, that it is the interest of a community, with
^ view to eventual and permanent economy, to encourage the
growth of manufactures. In a national view, a temporary en-
hancement of price must always be well compensated by a per-
manent reduction of it.

It is a reflection which may with propriety be indulged here,
that this eventual diminution of the prices of manufactured arti-
cles, which is the result of internal manufacturing establishments,

236 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ^Et. 34.

has a direct and very important tendency to benefit agriculture.
It enables the farmer to procure, with a smaller quantity of his
labor, the manufactured produce of which he stands in need, and
consequently increases the value of his income and property.

The objections which are commonly made to the expediency
of encouraging, and to the probability of succeeding in manu-
facturing pursuits, in the United States, having now been dis-
cussed, the considerations, which have appeared in the course of
the discussion, recommending that species of industry to the
patronage of the Government, will be materially strengthened by
a few general, and some particular topics, which have been
naturally reserved for subsequent notice.

1. There seems to be a moral certainty that the trade of a
country, which is both manufacturing and agricultural, will be
more lucrative and prosperous than that of a country which is
merely agricultural.

One reason for this is found in that general effort of nations
(which has been already mentioned) to procure from their own
soils, the articles of prime necessity requisite to their own con-
sumption and use, and which serves to render their demand for
a foreign supply of such articles, in a great degree, occasional
and contingent. Hence while the necessities of nations, exclu-
sively devoted to agriculture, for the fabrics of manufacturing
States, are constant and regular, the wants of the latter for the
products of the former are liable to very considerable fluctua-
tions and interruptions. The great inequalities resulting from
difference of seasons, have been, elsewhere, remarked. This
uniformity of demand on one side, and unsteadiness of it on the
other, must necessarily have a tendency to cause the general
course of the exchange of commodities between the parties, to
turn to the disadvantage of the merely agricultural States. Pe-
culiarity of situation, a climate and soil adapted to the produc-
tion of peculiar commodities, may, sometimes, contradict the
rule, but there is every reason to believe that it will be found, in
the main, a just one.

Another circumstance, which gives a superiority of commer-
cial advantages to States that manufacture as well as cultivate,

,Et. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 237

consists in the more numerous attractions which a more diversi-
fied market offers to foreign customers, and in the greater scope
which it affords to mercantile enterprise. It is a position of indis-
putable truth, in commerce, depending too on very obvious
reasons, that the greatest resort will ever be to those marts where
commodities, while equally abundant, are most various. Each
difference of kind holds out an additional inducement : and it is
a position not less clear, that the field of enterprise must be
enlarged to the merchants of a country, in proportion to the
variety, as well as the abundance of commodities which they find
at home, for exportation to foreign markets.

A third circumstance, perhaps not inferior to either of the
other two, conferring the superiority which has been stated, has
relation to the stagnations of demand for certain commodities,
which, at some time or other, interfere more or less with the sale
of all. The nation which can bring to market but few articles,
is likely to be more quickly and sensibly affected by such stag-
nations, than one which is always possessed of a great variety of
commodities ; the former frequently finds too great a proportion
of its stock of materials for sale or exchange, lying on hand, or is
obliged to make injurious sacrifices to supply its wants of foreign
articles, which are numerous and urgent, in proportion to the
smallness of the number of its own. The latter commonly finds
itself indemnified by the high prices of some articles, for the low
prices of others ; and the prompt and advantageous sale of those
articles which are in demand, enables its merchants the better to
wait for a favorable change in respect to those which are not.
There is ground to believe that a difference of situation, in this
particular, has immensely different effects upon the wealth and
prosperity of nations.

From these circumstances, collectively, two important infer-
ences are to be drawn : one, that there is always a higher proba-
bility of a favorable balance of trade, in regard to countries in
which manufactures, founded on the basis of a thriving agricul-
ture, flourish, than in regard to those which are confined wholly,
or almost wholly, to agriculture ; the other (which is also a con-
sequence of the first), that countries of the former description

238 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

are likely to possess more pecuniary wealth, or money, than
those of the latter.

Facts appear to correspond with this conclusion. The im-
portations of manufactured supplies seem invariably to drain the
merely agricultural people of their wealth. Let the situation of
the manufacturing countries of Europe be compared, in this par-
ticular, with that of countries which only cultivate, and the dis-
parity will be striking. Other causes, it is true, help to account
for this disparity between some of them ; and among these causes,
the relative state of agriculture ; but between others of them, the
most prominent circumstance of dissimilitude arises from the
comparative state of manufactures. In corroboration of the same
idea, it ought not to escape remark, that the West India Islands,
the soils of which are the most fertile, and the nation which, in
the greatest degree, supplies the rest of the world with the pre-
cious metals, exchange to a loss, with almost every other country.

As far as experience, at home, may guide, it will lead to the
same conclusion. Previous to the Eevolution, the quantity of
coin possessed by the colonies which now compose the United
States, appeared to be inadequate to their circulation ; and their
debt to Great Britain was progressive. Since the Eevolution,
the States in which manufactures have most increased, have
recovered fastest from the injuries of the late war, and abound
most in pecuniary resources.

It ought to be admitted, however, in this, as in the preceding
case, that causes irrelative to the state of manufactures, account,
in a degree, for the phenomena remarked. The continual pro-
gress of new settlements has a natural tendency to occasion an
unfavorable balance of trade ; though it indemnifies for the incon-
venience, by that increase of the national capital which flows
from the conversion of waste into improved lands : and the dif-
ferent degrees of external commerce which are carried on by the
different States, may make material differences in the compara-
tive state of their wealth. The first circumstance has reference
to the deficiency of coin, and the increase of debt previous to the
Eevolution ; the last, to the advantages which the most manu-
facturing States appear to have enjoyed over the others, since the
termination of the late war.

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 239

But the uniform appearance of an abundance of specie, as the
concomitant of a flourishing state of manufactures, and of the
reverse, where they do not prevail, afford a strong presumption
of their favorable operation upon the wealth of a country.

Not only the wealth, but the independence and security of a
country, appear to be materially connected with the prosperity of
manufactures. Every nation, with a view to those great objects,
ought to endeavor to possess within itself, all the essentials of
national supply. These comprise the means of subsistence,
habitation, clothing, and defence.

The possession of these is necessary to the perfection of the
body politic ; to the safety as well as to the welfare of the society.
The want of either is the want of an important organ of political
life and motion ; and in the various crises which await a State, it
must severely feel the effects of any such deficiency. The ex-
treme embarrassments of the United States, during the late war,
from an incapacity of supplying themselves, are still matter of
keen recollection ; a future war might be expected again to exem-
plify the mischiefs and dangers of a situation, to which that
incapacity is still, in too great a degree, applicable, unless changed
by timely and vigorous exertion. To effect this change, as fast
as shall be prudent, merits all the attention and all the zeal of our
public councils : 'tis the next great work to be accomplished.

The want of a navy, to protect our external commerce, as
long as it shall continue, must render it a peculiarly precarious
reliance for the supply of essential articles, and must serve to
strengthen prodigiously the arguments in favor of manufactures.

To these general considerations are added some of a more
particular nature.

Our distance from Europe, the great fountain of manufactured
supply, subjects us, in the existing state of things, to inconve-
nience and loss, in two ways.

The bulkiness of those commodities, which are the chief pro-
ductions of the soil, necessarily imposes very heavy charges on
their transportation to distant markets. These charges, in the
cases in which the nations to whom our products are sent, main,
tain a competition in the supply of their own markets, principally

240 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 34.

fall upon us, and form material deductions from the primitive
value of the articles furnished. The charges on manufactured
supplies, brought from Europe, are greatly enhanced by the same
circumstances of distance. These charges, again, in the cases in
which our own industry maintains no competition in our own
markets, also principally fall upon us, and are an additional cause
of extraordinary deduction from the primitive value of our own
products; these being the materials of exchange for the foreign
fabrics which we consume.

The equality and moderation of individual property, and the
growing settlements of new districts, occasion, in this country, an
unusual demand for coarse manufactures ; the charges of which
being greater in proportion to their greater bulk, augment the
disadvantage which has been just described.

As, in most countries, domestic supplies maintain a very con-
siderable competition with such foreign productions of the soil as
are imported for sale, if the extensive establishment of manufac-
tories in the United States does not create a similar competition
in respect to manufactured articles, it appears to be clearly dedu-
cible, from the considerations which have been mentioned, that
they must sustain a double loss in their exchanges with foreign
nations, strongly conducive to an unfavorable balance of trade,
and very prejudicial to their interests.

These disadvantages press, with no small weight, on the
landed interest of the country. In seasons of peace, they cause a
serious deduction from the intrinsic value of the products of the
soil. In the time of a war, which should either involve our-
selves, or another nation possessing a considerable share of our
carrying trade, the charges on the transportation of our commo-
dities, bulky as most of them are, could hardly fail to prove a
grievous burthen to the farmer, while obliged to depend, in so
great a degree as he now does, upon foreign markets, for the vent
of the surplus of his labor.

As far as the prosperity of the fisheries of the United States
is impeded by the want of an adequate market, there arises
another special reason for desiring the extension of manufactures.
Besides the fish, which, in many places, would be likely to make

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 241

a part of the subsistence of the persons employed, it is known
that the oils, bones, and skins, of marine animals, are of exten-
sive use in various manufactures. Hence, the prospect of an
additional demand for the produce of the fisheries.

One more point of view only remains, in which to consider
the expediency of encouraging manufactures in the United
States.

It is not uncommon to meet with an opinion, that, though the
promoting of manufactures may be the interest of a part of the
Union, it is contrary to that of another part. The Northern and
Southern regions are sometimes represented as having adverse
interests in this respect. Those are called manufacturing, these
agricultural States ; and a species of opposition is imagined to
subsist between the manufacturing and agricultural interests.

This idea of an opposition between those two interests, is the
common error of the early periods of every country ; but expe-
rience gradually dissipates it. Indeed, they are perceived so
often to succor and befriend each other, that they come at length
to be considered as one — a supposition which has been frequently
abused, and is not universally true. Particular encouragements
of particular manufactures may be of a nature to sacrifice the
interests of landholders to those of manufacturers ; but it is
nevertheless a maxim, well established by experience, and gene-
rally acknowledged, where there has been sufficient experience,
that the aggregate prosperity of manufactures and the aggregate
prosperity of agriculture are intimately connected. In the course
of the discussion which has had place, various weighty considera-
tions have been adduced, operating in support of that maxim.
Perhaps the superior steadiness of the demand of a domestic
market, for the surplus produce of the soil, is, alone, a con-
vincing argument of its truth.

Ideas of a contrariety of interests between the Northern and
Southern regions of the Union, are, in the main, as unfounded
as they are mischievous. The diversity of circumstances, on
which such contrariety is usually predicated, authorizes a directly
contrary conclusion. Mutual wants constitute one of the strong-
est links of political connection ; and the extent of these bears

242 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [ Mr. 34.

a natural proportion to the diversity in the means of mutual
supply.

Suggestions of an opposite complexion are ever to be deplored,
as unfriendly to the steady pursuit of one great common cause,
and to the perfect harmony of all the parts.

In proportion as the mind is accustomed to trace the intimate
connection of interest which subsists between all the parts of a
society, united under the same government, the infinite variety
of channels will serve to circulate the prosperity of each, to and
through the rest — in that proportion will it be little apt to be
disturbed by solicitudes and apprehensions, which originate in
local discriminations.

It is a truth, as important as it is agreeable, and one to which
it is not easy to imagine exceptions, that every thing tending
to establish substantial and permanent order in the affairs of a
country, to increase the total mass of industry and opulence, is
ultimately beneficial to every part of it. On the credit of this
great truth, an acquiescence may safely be accorded, from every
quarter, to all institutions and arrangements which promise a
confirmation of public order and an augmentation of national
resource.

But there are more particular considerations which serve to
fortify the idea that the encouragement of manufactures is the
interest of all parts of the Union. If the Northern and Middle
States should be the principal scenes of such establishments, they
would immediately benefit the more Southern, by creating a
demand for productions, some of which they have in common
with the other States, and others, which are either peculiar to
them, or more abundant, or of better quality, than elsewhere.
These productions, principally, are timber, flax, hemp, cotton,
wool, raw silk, indigo, iron, lead, furs, hides, skins, and coals;
of these articles, cotton and indigo are peculiar to the Southern
States, as are, hitherto, lead and coal ; flax and hemp are, or
may be, raised in greater abundance there, than in the more
Northern States ; and the wool of Virginia is said to be of better
quality than that of any other State — a circumstance rendered
the more probable, by the reflection, that Virginia embraces the

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 243

same latitudes with the finest wool countries of Europe. The
climate of the South is also better adapted to the production of
silk.

The extensive cultivation of cotton, can, perhaps, hardly be
expected but from the previous establishment of domestic manu-
factories of the article ; and the surest encouragement and vent
for the others, would result from similar establishments in respect
to them.

If, then, it satisfactorily appears, that it is the interest of the
United States, generally, to encourage manufactures, it merits
particular attention, that there are circumstances which render
the present a critical moment for entering, with zeal, upon the
important business. The effort cannot fail to be materially
seconded by a considerable and increasing influx of money, in
consequence of foreign speculations in the funds, and by the dis-
orders which exist in different parts of Europe.

The first circumstance not only facilitates the execution of
manufacturing enterprises, but it indicates them as a necessary
mean to turn the thing itself to advantage, and to prevent its
being eventually an evil. If useful employment be not found for
the money of foreigners, brought to the country to be invested
in purchases of the public debt, it will quickly be re-exported, to
defray the expense of an extraordinary consumption of foreign
luxuries ; and distressing drains of our specie may, hereafter, be
experienced, to pay the interest and redeem the principal of
the purchased debt.

This useful employment, too, ought to be of a nature to pro-
duce solid and permanent improvements. If the money merely
serves to give a temporary spring to foreign commerce ; as it
cannot procure new and lasting outlets for the products of the
country, there will be no real or durable advantage gained. As
far as it shall find its way in agricultural meliorations, in opening
canals, and in similar improvements, it will be productive of sub-
stantial utility. But there is reason to doubt, whether, in such
channels, it is likely to find sufficient employment; and still
more, whether many of those who possess it would be as readily
attracted to objects of this nature, as to manufacturing pursuits,

244 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 34.

which bear greater analogy to those to which they are accus-
tomed, and to the spirit generated by them.

To open the one field, as well as the other, will at least se-
cure a better prospect of useful employment for whatever acces-
sion of money there has been or may be.

There is, at the present juncture, a certain fermentation of
mind, a certain activity of speculation and enterprise, which, if
properly directed, may be made subservient to useful purposes ;
but which, if left entirely to itself, may be attended with perni-
cious effects.

The disturbed state of Europe inclining its citizens to emi-
gration, the requisite workmen will be more easily acquired than
at another time ; and the effect of multiplying the opportunities
of employment to those who emigrate, may be an increase of
the number and extent of valuable acquisitions to the popula-
tion, arts, and industry, of the country.

To find pleasure in the calamities of other nations would be
criminal; but to benefit ourselves, by opening an asylum to
those who suffer in consequence of them, is as justifiable as it
is politic.

A full view having now been taken of the inducements to
the promotion of manufactures in the United States, accom-
panied with an examination of the principal objections which
are commonly urged in opposition, it is proper, in the next
place, to consider the means by which it may be effected, as in-
troductory to a specification of the objects, which, in the present
state of things, appear the most fit to be encouraged, and of the
particular measures which it may be advisable to adopt, in respect
to each.

In order to a better judgment of the means proper to be
resorted to by the United States, it will be of use to advert to
those which have been employed with success in other countries.
The principal of these are :

1. Protecting duties — or duties on those foreign articles which are
the rivals of the domestic ones intended to be encouraged.

Duties of this nature evidently amount to a virtual bounty

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 245

on the domestic fabrics; since, by enhancing the charges on
foreign articles, they enable the national manufacturers to under-
sell all their foreign competitors. The propriety of this species
of encouragement need not be dwelt upon, as it is not only a
clear result from the numerous topics which have been suggest-
ed, but is sanctioned by the laws of the United States, in a
variety of instances ; it has the additional recommendation of
being a resource of revenue. Indeed, all the duties imposed on
imported articles, though with an exclusive view to revenue,
have the effect, in contemplation, and, except where they fall on
raw materials, wear a beneficent aspect towards the manufactur-
ers of the country.

2. Prohibitions of rival articles, or duties equivalent to prohibitions.

This is another and an efficacious mean of encouraging na-
tional manufactures ; but, in general, it is only fit to be employed
when a manufacture has made such progress, and is in so many
hands, as to insure a due competition, and an adequate supply
on reasonable terms. Of duties equivalent to prohibitions, there
are examples in the laws of the United States ; and there are
other cases, to which the principle may be advantageously ex-
tended, but they are not numerous.

Considering a monopoly of the domestic market to its own
manufacturers as the reigning policy of manufacturing nations,
a similar policy, on the part of the United States, in every pro-
per instance, is dictated, it might almost be said, by the princi-
ples of distributive justice; certainly, by the duty of endeavor-
ing to secure to their own citizens a reciprocity of advantages.

3. Prohibitions of the exportation of the materials of manufactures.

The desire of securing a cheap and plentiful supply for the
national workmen, and where the article is either peculiar to the
country, or of peculiar quality there, the jealousy of enabling
foreign workmen to rival those of the nation with its own ma-
terials, are the leading motives to this species of regulation. It

246 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

ought not to be affirmed, that it is in no instance proper ; but is,
certainly, one which ought to be adopted with great circum-
spection, and only in very plain cases. It is seen at once, that
its immediate operation is to abridge the demand, and keep
down the price of the produce of some other branch of industry
— generally speaking, of agriculture — to the prejudice of those
who carry it on ; and though, if it be really essential to the
prosperity of any very important national manufacture, it may
happen that those who are injured, in the first instance, may be,
eventually, indemnified by the superior steadiness of an exten-
sive domestic market, depending on that prosperity ; yet, in a
matter in which there is so much room for nice and difficult
combinations, in which such opposite considerations combat each
other, prudence seems to dictate that the expedient in question
ought to be indulged with a sparing hand.

4. Pecuniary bounties.

This has been found one of the most efficacious means of en-
couraging manufactures, and is, in some views, the best. Though
it has not yet been practised upon by the Government of the
United States (unless the allowance on the expiration of dried
and pickled fish and salted meat could be considered as a bounty),
and though it is less favored by public opinion than some other
modes, its advantages are these :

1. It is a species of encouragement more positive and direct
than any other, and, for that very reason, has a more immediate
tendency to stimulate and uphold new enterprises, increasing the
chances of profit, and diminishing the risks of loss, in the first
attempts.

2. It avoids the inconvenience of a temporary augmentation
of price, which is incident to some other modes ; or it produces
it to a less degree, either by making no addition to the charges
on the rival foreign article, as in the case of protecting duties, or
by making a smaller addition. The first happens when the
fund for the bounty is derived from a different object (which
may or may not increase the price of some other article, accord-

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 247

ing to the nature of that object), the second, when the fund is
derived from the same, or a similar object, of foreign manufac-
ture. One per cent, duty on the foreign article, converted iuto
a bounty on the domestic, will have an equal effect with a duty
of two per cent., exclusive of such bounty; and the price of the
foreign commodity is liable to be raised, in the one case, in the
proportion of one per cent. ; in the other in that of two per cent.
Indeed the bounty, when drawn from another source, is calcu-
lated to promote a reduction of price ; because, without laying
any new charge on the foreign article, it serves to introduce a
competition with it, and to increase the total quantity of the
article in the market.

3. Bounties have not, like high protecting duties, a tendency
to produce scarcity. An increase of price is not always the im-
mediate, though, where the progress of a domestic manufacture
does not counteract a rise, it is, commonly, the ultimate effect
of an additional duty. In the interval between the laying of the
duty and the proportional increase of price, it may discourage
importation, by interfering with the profits to be expected from
the sale of the article.

4. Bounties are, sometimes, not only the best, but the only
proper expedient for uniting the encouragement of a new object
of agriculture with that of a new object of manufacture. It is
the interest of the farmer to have the production of the raw ma-
terial promoted by counteracting the interference of the foreign
material of the same kind. It is the interest of the manufacturer
to have the material abundant and cheap. If, prior to the do-
mestic production of the material, in sufficient quantity to sup-
ply the manufacturer on good terms, a duty be laid upon the im-
portation of it from abroad, with a view to promote the raising
of it at home, the interest both of the farmer and manufacturer
will be disserved. By either destroying the requisite supply, or
raising the price of the article beyond what can be afforded to
be given for it by the conductor of an infant manufacture, it is
abandoned or fails, and there being no domestic manufactories
to create a demand for the raw material, which is raised by the
farmer, it is in vain that the competition of the like foreign arti-
cle may have been destroyed.
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 34.

It cannot escape notice, that a duty upon the importation of
an article can no otherwise aid the domestic production of it,
than by giving the latter greater advantages in the home mar-
ket. It can have no influence upon the advantageous sale of the
article produced in foreign markets — no tendency, therefore, to
promote its exportation.

The true way to conciliate these two interests is to lay a duty
on foreign manufactures of the material, the growth of which is
desired to be encouraged, and to apply the produce of that duty,
by way of bounty, either upon the production of the material
itself, or upon its manufacture at home, or upon both. In this
disposition of the thing, the manufacturer commences his enter-
prise under every advantage which is attainable, as to quantity
or price of the raw material ; and the farmer, if the bounty be
immediately to him, is enabled by it to enter into a successful
competition with the foreign material. If the bounty be to the
manufacturer, on so much of the domestic material as he con-
sumes, the operation is nearly the same; he has a motive of
interest to prefer the domestic commodity, if of equal quality,
even at a higher price than the foreign, so long as the difference
of price is any thing short of the bounty which is allowed upon
the article.

Except the simple and ordinary kinds of household manu-
facture, or those for which there are very commanding local
advantages, pecuniary bounties are, in most cases, indispensable
to the introduction of a new branch. A stimulus and a support,
not less powerful and direct, is, generally speaking, essential to
the overcoming of the obstacles which arise from the competi-
tions of superior skill and maturity elsewhere. Bounties are
especially essential in regard to articles upon which those for-
eigners, who have been accustomed to supply a country, are in
the practice of granting them.

The continuance of bounties on manufactures long establish-
ed, must almost always be of questionable policy : because a
presumption would arise, in every such case, that there were
natural and inherent impediments to success. But, in new
undertakings, they are as justifiable as they are oftentimes
necessary.

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 249

There is a degree of prejudice against bounties, from an ap-
pearance of giving away the public money without an immediate
consideration, and from a supposition that they serve to enrich
particular classes, at the expense of the community.

But neither of these sources of dislike will bear a serious ex-
amination. There is no purpose to which public money can
be more beneficially applied, than to the acquisition of a new
and useful branch of industry ; no consideration more valuable,
than a permanent addition to the general stock of productive
labor.

As to the second source of objection, it equally lies against
other modes of encouragement, which are admitted to be eli-
gible. As often as a duty upon a foreign article makes an addi-
tion to its price, it causes an extra expense to the community,
for the benefit of the domestic manufacturer. A bounty does
no more. But it is the interest of the society, in each case, to
submit to the temporary expense — which is more than compen-
sated by an increase of industry and wealth; by an augmenta-
tion of resources and independence; and by the circumstance
of eventual cheapness, which has been noticed in another place.

It would deserve attention, however, in the employment of
this species of encouragement in the United States, as a reason
for moderating the degree of it in the instances in which it might
be deemed eligible, that the great distance of this country from
Europe imposes very heavy charges on all the fabrics which are
brought from thence, amounting to from fifteen to thirty per
cent, on their value, according to their bulk.

A question has been made concerning the constitutional right
of the Government of the United States to apply this species of
encouragement ; but there is certainly no good foundation for
such a question. The National Legislature has express autho-
rity " to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay
the debts, and provide for the common defence and general
welfare," with no other qualifications than that "all duties, im-
posts and excises, shall be uniform throughout the United
States ; and that no capitation or other direct tax shall be laid,
unless in proportion to numbers, ascertained by a census or enu-

c 17

250 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

meration, taken on the principles prescribed in the constitution,"
and that "no tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from
any State."

These three qualifications excepted, the power to raise money
is plenary and indefinite, and the objects to which it may be
appropriated, are no less comprehensive than the payment of the
public debts, and the providing for the common defence and
general welfare. The terms "general welfare" were doubtless
intended to signify more than was expressed or imported in
those which preceded ; otherwise, numerous exigencies incident
to the affairs of a nation would have been left without a provi-
sion. The phrase is as comprehensive as any that could have
been used ; because it was not fit that the constitutional autho-
rity of the Union to appropriate its revenues should have
been restricted within narrower limits than the " general wel-
fare;" and because this necessarily embraces a vast variety of
particulars, which are susceptible neither of specification nor of
definition.

It is, therefore, of necessity, left to the discretion of the
National Legislature to pronounce upon the objects which con-
cern the general welfare, and for which, under that description,
an appropriation of money is requisite and proper. And there
seems to be no room for a doubt, that whatever concerns the
general interests of learning, of agriculture, of manufactures,
and of commerce, are within the sphere of the national councils,
as far as regards an application of money.

The only qualification of tlie generality of the phrase in
question, which seems to be admissible, is this : That the object,
to which an appropriation of money is to be made, be general,
and not local ; its operation extending, in fact, or by possi-
bility, throughout the Union, and not being confined to a parti-
cular spot.

No objection ought to arise to this construction, from a sup-
position that it would imply a power to do whatever else should
appear to Congress conducive to the general welfare. A power
to appropriate money with this latitude, which is granted, too,
in express terms, would not carry a power to do any other thing

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 251

not authorized in the constitution, either expressly or by fair im-
plication.

5. Premiums.

These are of a nature allied to bounties, though distinguish-
able from them in some important features.

Bounties are applicable to the whole quantity of an article
produced, or manufactured, or exported, and involve a corres-
pondent expense. Premiums serve to reward some particular
excellence or superiority, some extraordinary exertion or skill,
and are dispensed only in a small number of cases. But their
effect is to stimulate general effort ; contrived so as to be both
honorary and lucrative, they address themselves to different pas-
sions— touching the chords, as well of emulation as of interest.
They are, accordingly, a very economical mean of exciting the
enterprise of a whole community.

There are various societies, in different countries, whose ob-
ject is the dispensation of premiums for the encouragement of
agriculture, arts, manufactures, and commerce ; and though they
are, for the most part, voluntary associations, with comparatively
slender funds, their utility has been immense. Much has been
done, by this mean, in Great Britain. Scotland, in particular,
owes, materially to it, a prodigious amelioration of condition.
From a similar establishment in the United States, supplied and
supported by the Government of the Union, vast benefits might,
reasonably, be expected. Some further ideas, on this head, shall,
accordingly, be submitted, in the conclusion of this report.

6. The exemption of the materials of manufactures from duty.

The policy of that exemption, as a general rule, particularly in
reference to new establishments, is obvious. It can hardly ever
be advisable to add the obstructions of fiscal burthens to the
difficulties which naturally embarrass a new manufacture ; and
where it is matured, and in condition to become an object of
revenue, it is, generally speaking, better that the fabric, than the
material, should be the subject of taxation. Ideas of proportion

252 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 34.

between the quantum of the tax and the value of the article,
can be more easily adjusted in the former than in the latter case.
An argument for exemptions of this kind, in the United States,
is to be derived from the practice, as far as their necessities have
permitted, of those nations whom we are to meet as competitors
in our own and in foreign markets.

There are, however, exceptions to it, of which some examples
will be given under the next head.

The laws of the Union afford instances of the observance of
the policy here recommended, but it will probably be found ad-
visable to extend it to some other cases. Of a nature, bearing
some affinity to that policy, is the regulation which exempts
from duty the tools and implements, as well as the books,
clothes, and household furniture, of foreign artists, who come to
reside in the United States — an advantage already secured to
them by the laws of the Union, and which it is, in every view,
proper to continue.

7. Drawbacks of the duties which are imposed on the materials of

manufactures.

It has already been observed, as a general rule, that duties on
those materials ought, with certain exceptions, to be forborne.
Of these exceptions, three cases occur, which may serve as ex-
amples. One, where the material is itself an object of general or
extensive consumption, and a fit and productive source of rev-
enue. Another, whe*re a manufacture of a simpler kind, the
competition of which, with a like domestic article, is desired to
be restrained, partakes of the nature of a raw material, from be-
ing capable, by a farther process, to be converted into a manu-
facture of a different kind, the introduction or growth of which
is desired to be encouraged. A third, where the material itself
is a production of the country, and in sufficient abundance to
furnish a cheap and plentiful supply to the national manufac-
turers.

Under the first description comes the article of molasses. It
is not only a fair object of revenue, but, being a sweet, it is just

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 253

that the consumers of it should pay a duty as well as the con-
sumers of sugar.

Cottons and linens, in their white state, fall under the second
description. A duty upon such as are imported is proper, to
promote the domestic manufacture of similar articles, in the same
state. A drawback of that duty is proper, to encourage the
printing and staining, at home, of those which are brought from
abroad. When the first of these manufactures has attained suffi-
cient maturity in a country to furnish a full supply for the se-
cond, the utility of the drawback ceases.

The article of hemp either now does, or may be expected
soon to, exemplify the third case in the United States.

Where duties on the materials of manufactures are not laid
for the purpose of preventing a competition with some domestic
production, the same reasons which recommend, as a general
rule, the exemption of those materials from duties, would recom-
mend, as a like general rule, the allowance of drawbacks in favor
of the manufacturer. Accordingly, such drawbacks are familiar
in countries which systematically pursue the business of manu-
factures ; which furnishes an argument for the observance of a
similar policy in the United States ; and the idea has been adopt-
ed by the laws of the Union, in the instances of salt and molasses.
It is believed that it will be found advantageous to extend it to
some other articles.

8. The encouragement of new inventions and discoveries at home,
and of the introduction into the United States of such as may have-
been made in other countries ; particularly, those which relate to
machinery.

This is among the most useful and unexceptionable of the
aids which can be given to manufactures. The usual means of
that encouragement are pecuniary rewards, and, for a time, ex-
clusive privileges. The first must be employed, according to the
occasion, and the utility of the invention or discovery. For the
last, so far as respects " authors and inventors," provision has
been made by law. But it is desirable, in regard to improve-

254 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

ments, and secrets of extraordinary value, to be able to extend
the same benefit to introducers, as well as authors and inventors;
a policy which has been practised with advantage in other coun-
tries. Here, however, as in some other cases, there is cause to
regret, that the competency of the authority of the National
Government to the good which might be done, is not without a
question. Many aids might be given to industry, many internal
improvements of primary magnitude might be promoted, by an
authority operating throughout the Union, which cannot be ef-
fected as well, if at all, by an authority confirmed within the
limits of a single State.

But, if the Legislature of the Union cannot do all the good
that might be wished, it is, at least, desirable that all may be
done which is practicable. Means for promoting the introduction
of foreign improvements, though less efficaciously than might be
accomplished with more adequate authority, will form a part of
the plan intended to be submitted in the close of this report.

It is customary with manufacturing nations to prohibit, under
severe penalties, the exportation of implements and machines,
which they have either invented or improved. There are al-
ready objects for a similar regulation in the United States; and
others may be expected to occur, from time to time. The adop-
tion of it seems to be dictated by the principle of reciprocity.
Greater liberality, in such respects, might better comport with
the general spirit of the country ; but a selfish and exclusive
policy, in other quarters, will not always permit the free indul-
gence of a spirit which would place us upon an unequal footing.
As far as prohibitions tend to prevent foreign competitors from
deriving the benefit of the improvements made at home, they tend
to increase the advantages of those by whom they may have been
introduced, and operate as an encouragement to exertion.

9. Judicious regulations for the inspection of manufactured commo-
dities.

This is not among the least important of the means by which
the prosperity of manufactures may be promoted. It is, indeed,

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 255

in many cases, one of the most essential. Contributing to pre-
vent frauds upon consumers at home, and exporters to foreign
countries ; to improve the quality, and preserve the character of
the national manufactures ; it cannot fail to aid the expeditious
and advantageous sale of them, and to serve as a guard against
successful competition from other quarters. The reputation of the
flour and lumber of some States, and of the potash of others,
has been established by an attention to this point. And the like
good name might be procured for those articles, wheresoever pro-
duced, by a judicious and uniform system of inspection, through-
out the ports of the United States. A like system might also be
extended with advantage to other commodities.

10. The facilitating of pecuniary remittances from place to place —

Is a point of considerable moment to trade in general, and to
manufactures in particular, by rendering more easy the purchase
of raw materials and provisions, and the payment for manufac-
tured supplies. A general circulation of bank paper, which is to
be expected from the institution lately established, will be a most
valuable mean to this end. But much good would also accrue
from some additional provisions respecting inland bills of ex-
change. If those drawn in one State, payable in another, were
made negotiable every where, and interest and damages allowed
in case of protest, it would greatly promote negotiations between
the citizens of different States, by rendering them more secure,
and with it the convenience and advantage of the merchants and
manufacturers of each.

11. Tlie facilitating of the transportation of commodities.

Improvements favoring this object intimately concern all the
domestic interests of a community ; but they may, without im-
propriety, be mentioned as having an important relation to
manufactures. There is, perhaps, scarcely any thing, which has
been better calculated to assist the manufacturers of Great
Britain, than the melioration of the public roads of that king-

256 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 34.

dom, and the great progress which has been of late made in
opening canals. Of the former, the United States stand much
in need ; for the latter, they present uncommon facilities.

The symptoms of attention to the improvement of inland
navigation which have lately appeared in some quarters, must
fill with pleasure every breast, warmed with a true zeal for the
prosperity of the country. These examples, it is to be hoped,
will stimulate the exertions of the Government and citizens of
every State. There can certainly be no object more worthy of
the cares of the local administrations ; and it were to be wished
that there was no doubt of the power of the National Govern-
ment to lend its direct aid on a comprehensive plan. This is
one of those improvements which could be prosecuted with
more efficacy by the whole, than by any part or parts of the
Union. There are cases in which the general interest will be in
danger to be sacrificed to the collision of some supposed local
interests. Jealousies, in matters of this kind, are as apt to exist,
as they are apt to be erroneous.

The following remarks are sufficiently judicious and pertinent
to deserve a literal quotation :

" Good roads, canals, and navigable rivers, by diminishing
the expense of carriage, put the remote parts of a country more
nearly upon a level with those in the neighborhood of the town.
They are, upon that account, the greatest of all improvements.
They encourage the cultivation of the remote, which must
always be the most extensive circle of the country. They are
advantageous to the town, by breaking down the monopoly of
the country in its neighborhood. They' are advantageous, even
to that part of the country. Though they introduce some rival
commodities into the old market, they open many new markets
to its produce. Monopoly, besides, is a great enemy to good
management, which can never be universally established, but in
consequence of that free and universal competition, which forces
every body to have recourse to it for the sake of self-defence. It
is not more than fifty years ago that some of the counties in the
neighborhood of London petitioned the parliament against the
extension of the turnpike roads into the remoter counties. Those

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 257

remoter counties, they pretended, from the cheapness of labor,
would be able to sell their grass and corn cheaper in the London
market than themselves, and they would thereby reduce their
rents, and ruin their cultivation. Their rents, however, have
risen, and their cultivation has been improved since that time."

Specimens of a spirit similar to that which governed the coun-
ties here spoken of, present themselves too frequently to the eye
of an impartial observer, and render it a wish of patriotism, that
the body in this country, in whose councils a local or partial
spirit is at least likely to predominate, were at liberty to pursue
and promote the general interest, in those instances in which
there might be danger of the interference of such a spirit.

The foregoing are the principal of the means by which the
growth of manufactures is ordinarily promoted. It is, however,
not merely necessary that the measures of government, which
have a direct view to manufactures, should be calculated to
assist and protect them, but that those which only collaterally
affect them in the general course of the administration, should
be guarded from any peculiar tendency to injure them.

There are certain species of taxes, which are apt to be
oppressive to different parts of the community, and, among
other ill effects, have a very unfriendly aspect towards manufac-
tures. All poll or capitation taxes are of this nature. They
either proceed according to a fixed rate, which operates unequal-
ly and injuriously to the industrious poor, or they vest a discre-
tion, in certain officers, to make estimates and assessments, which
are necessarily vague, conjectural, and liable to abuse. They
ought, therefore, to be abstained from in all but cases of dis-
tressing emergency.

All such taxes (including all taxes on occupations) which
proceed according to the amount of capital supposed to be em-
ployed in a business, or of profits supposed to be made in it, are
unavoidably hurtful to industry. It is in vain that the evil may
be endeavored to be mitigated, by leaving it, in the first instance,
in the option of the party to be taxed, to declare the amount of
his capital or profits.

Men engaged in any trade or business, have commonly
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[At. 34.

weighty reasons to avoid disclosures, which would expose, with
any thing like accuracy, the real state of their affairs. They
most frequently find it better to risk oppression, than to avail
themselves of so inconvenient a refuge, and the consequence is,
that they often suffer oppression.

When the disclosure, too, if made, is not definitive, but con-
trollable by the discretion, or, in other words, by the passions
and prejudices of the revenue officers, it is not only an ineffectual
protection, but the possibility of its being so, is an additional
reason for not resorting to it.

Allowing to the public officers the most equitable disposi-
tions, yet, where they are to exercise a discretion without
certain data, they cannot fail to be often misled by appearances.
The quantity of business which seems to be going on, is, in a
vast number of cases, a very deceitful criterion of the profits
which are made ; yet it is, perhaps, the best they can have, and
it is the one on which they will most naturally rely. A business,
therefore, which may rather require aid from the Government,
than be in a capacity to be contributory to it, may find itself
crushed by the mistaken conjectures of the assessors of taxes.

Arbitrary taxes, under which denomination are comprised all
those that leave the quantum of the tax to be raised on each
person to the discretion of certain officers, are as contrary to the
genius of liberty as to the maxims of industry. In this light
they have been viewed by the most judicious observers on
Government, who have bestowed upon them the severest
epithets of reprobation, as constituting one of the worst features
usualty to be met with in the practice of despotic governments.

It is certain, at least, that such taxes are particularly inimical
to the success of manufacturing industry, and ought carefully to
be avoided by a government which desires to promote it.

The great copiousness of the subject of this report has in-
sensibly led to a more lengthy preliminary discussion than was
originally contemplated or intended. It appeared proper to in-
vestigate principles, to consider objections, and to endeavor to
establish the utility of the thing proposed to be encouraged,
previous to a specification of the objects which might occur, as

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 259

meriting or requiring encouragement, and of the measures which
might be proper in respect to each. The first purpose having
been fulfilled, it remains to pursue the second.

In the selection of objects, five circumstances seem entitled
to particular attention. The capacity of the country to furnish
the raw material ; the degree in which the nature of the manu-
facture admits of a substitute for manual labor in machinery ;
the facility of execution ; the extensiveness of the uses to which
the article can be applied ; its subserviency to other interests, par-
ticularly the great one of national defence. There are, however,
objects to which these circumstances are little applicable, which,
for some special reasons, may have a claim to encouragement.

A designation of the principal raw material of which each
manufacture is composed, will serve to introduce the remarks
upon it ; as, in the first place,

IEON.

The manufactures of this article are entitled to pre-eminent
rank. None are more essential in their kinds, nor so extensive
in their uses. They constitute, in whole, or in part, the imple-
ments or the materials, or both, of almost every useful occupa-
tion. Their instrumentality is every where conspicuous.

It is fortunate for the United States that they have peculiar
advantages for deriving the full benefit of this most valuable
material, and they have every motive to improve it with syste-
matic care. It is to be found in various parts of the United
States, in great abundance, and of almost every quality ; and
fuel, the chief instrument in manufacturing it, is both cheap and
plenty. This particularly applies to charcoal ; but there are pro-
ductive coal mines already in operation, and strong indications
that the material is to be found in abundance, in a variety of
other places.

The inquiries to which the subject of this report has led,
have been answered with proofs that manufactories of iron,
though generally understood to be extensive, are far more so
than is commonly supposed. The kinds in which the greatest

260 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. M,

progress lias been made, have been mentioned in another place,
and need not be repeated ; but there is little doubt that every
other kind, with due cultivation, will rapidly succeed. It is
worthy of remark, that several of the particular trades of which
it is the basis, are capable of being carried on without the aid of
large capitals.

Iron-works have greatly increased in the United States, and
are prosecuted with much more advantage than formerly. The
average price, before the Eevolution, was about sixty-four dollars
per ton ; at present, it is about eighty — a rise which is chiefly to
be attributed to the increase of manufactures of the material.

The still further extension and multiplication of such manu-
factures will have the double effect of promoting the extraction
of the metal itself, and of converting it to a greater number of
profitable purposes.

Those manufactures, too, unite, in a greater degree than
almost any others, the several requisites which have been men-
tioned as proper to be consulted in the selection of objects.

The only further encouragement of manufactories of this
article, the propriety of which may be considered as unquestion-
able, seems to be an increase of the duties on foreign rival com-
modities.

Steel is a branch which has already made a considerable pro-
gress, and it is ascertained that some new enterprises, on a more
extensive scale, have been lately set on foot. The facility of
carrying it to an extent which will supply all internal demands,
and furnish a considerable surplus for exportation, cannot be
doubted. The duty upon the importation of this article, which
is, at present, seventy-five cents per cwt. may, it is conceived,
be safely and advantageously extended to one hundred cents.
It is desirable, by decisive arrangements, to second the efforts
which are making in so very valuable a branch.

The United States already, in a great measure, supply them-
selves with nails and spikes. They are able, and ought certainly
to do it, entirely. The first and most laborious operation, in this
manufacture, is performed by water-mills ; and of the persons
afterwards employed, a great proportion are boys, whose early

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 261

habits of industry are of importance to the community, to the
present support of their families, and to their own future
comfort. It is not less curious than true, that, in certain parts
of the country, the making of nails is an occasional family
manufacture.

The expediency of an additional duty on these articles is in-
dicated by an important fact. About 1,800,000 pounds of them
were imported into the United States, in the course of a year,
ending the 30th of September, 1790. A duty of two cents per
pound would, it is presumable, speedily put an end to so consid-
erable an importation. And it is, in every view, proper that an
end should be put to it.

The manufacture of these articles, like that of some others,
suffers from the carelessness and dishonesty of a part of those
who carry it on. An inspection in certain cases might tend to
correct the evil. It will deserve consideration whether a regula-
tion of this sort cannot be applied, without inconvenience, to the
exportation of the articles, either to foreign countries, or from
one State to another.

The implements of husbandry are made in several States in
great abundance. In many places, it is done by the common
blacksmiths. And there is no doubt that an ample supply for
the whole country can, with great ease, be procured among our-
selves.

Various kinds of edged tools for the use of mechanics are
also made ; and a considerable quantity of hollow wares, though the
business of castings has not yet attained the perfection which
might be wished. It is, however, improving, and as there are
respectable capitals, in good hands, embarked in the prosecution
of those branches of iron manufactories, which are yet in their
infancy, they may all be contemplated as objects not difficult to
be acquired.

To insure the end, it seems equally safe and prudent to ex-
tend the duty, ad valorem, upon all manufactures of iron, or of
which iron is the article of chief value, to ten per cent.

Fire-arms and other military weapons may, it is conceived,
be placed, without inconvenience, in the class of articles rated at

262 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 34.

fifteen per cent. There are, already, mannfactories of these ar-
ticles, which only require the stimulus of a certain demand to
render them adequate to the supply of the United States.

It would, also, be a material aid to manufactures of this na-
ture, as well as a mean of public security, if provision should be
made for an annual purchase of military weapons, of home man-
ufacture, to a certain determinate extent, in order to the forma-
tion of arsenals; and to replace, from time to time, such as
should be drawn for use, so as always to have in store the quan-
tity of each kind which should be deemed a competent supply.

But it may, hereafter, deserve legislative consideration,
whether manufactories of all the necessary weapons of war
ought not to be established, on account of the government itself.
Such establishments are agreeable to the usual practice of
nations, and that practice seems founded on sufficient reason.

There appears to be an improvidence in leaving these es-
sential instruments of national defence to the casual speculations
of individual adventure — a resource which can less be relied
upon, in this case, than in most others ; the articles in question
not being objects of ordinary and indispensable private con-
sumption or use. As a general rule, manufactories on the im-
mediate account of government are to be avoided; but this
seems to be one of the few exceptions which that rule admits,
depending on very special reasons.

Manufactures of steel, generally, or of which steel is the ar-
ticle of chief value, may, with advantage, be placed in the class
of goods rated at seven and a half per cent. As manufactures
of this kind have not yet made any considerable progress, it is a
reason for not rating them as high as those of iron : but, as this
material is the basis of them, and as their extension is not less
practicable than important, it is desirable to promote it by a
somewhat higher duty than the present.

A question arises, how far it might be expedient to permit
the importation of iron, in pigs and bars, free from duty. It
would certainly be favorable to manufactures of the article ; but
the doubt is, whether it might not interfere with its production.

Two circumstances, however, abate, if they do not remove

jEt.34.] manufactures. 263

apprehension, on this score ; one is, the considerable increase of
price which has been already remarked, and which renders it
probable that the free admission of foreign iron would not be
inconsistent with an adequate profit to the proprietors of iron-
works ; the other is the augmentation of demand which would
be likely to attend the increase of manufactures of the article,
in consequence of the additional encouragements proposed to be
given. But caution, nevertheless, in a matter of this kind, is
most advisable. The measure suggested ought, perhaps, rather
to be contemplated subject to the lights of further experience,
than immediately adopted.

COPPER.

The manufactures of which this article is susceptible, are,
also, of great extent and utility. Under this description, those
of brass, of which it is the principal ingredient, are intended to
be included.

The material is a natural production of the country. Mines
of copper have actually been wrought, and with profit to the
undertakers, though it is not known that any are now in this
condition. And nothing is easier than the introduction of it
from other countries, on moderate terms and in great plenty.

Coppersmiths and brass founders, particularly the former,
are numerous in the United States; some of whom carry on
business to a respectable extent.

To multiply and extend manufactories of the materials in
question, is worthy of attention and effort. In order to this, it
is desirable to facilitate a plentiful supply of the materials ; and
a proper mean to this end is, to place them in the class of free
articles. Copper, in plates, and brass, are already in this predic-
ament ; but copper, in pigs and bars, is not ; neither is lapis cal-
aminaris, which, together with copper and charcoal, constitute
the component ingredients of brass. The exemption from duty,
by parity of reason, ought to embrace all such of these articles
as are objects of importation.

An additional duty on brass wares will tend to the general

264 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

end in view. These now stand at five per cent., while those of
tin, pewter, and copper, are rated at seven and a half. There
appears to be a propriety, in every view, in placing brass wares
upon the same level with them ; and it merits consideration,
whether the duty upon all of them ought not to be raised to ten
per cent.

LEAD.

There are numerous proofs that this material abounds in the
United States, and requires little to unfold it to an extent more
than equal to every domestic occasion. A prolific mine of it
has long been open in the south-western parts of Virginia, and
under a public administration, during the late war, yielded a
considerable supply for military use. This is now in the hands
of individuals, who not only carry it on with spirit, but have
established manufactories of it at Eichmond, in the same State.

The duties already laid upon the importation of this article,
either in its unmanufactured or manufactured state, insure it a
decisive advantage in the home market, which amounts to con-
siderable encouragement. If the duty on pewter wares should be
raised, it would afford a further encouragement. Nothing else
occurs as proper to be added.

FOSSIL COAL.

This, as an important instrument of manufactures, may, with-
out impropriety, be mentioned among the subjects of this re-
port.

A copious supply of it would be of great consequence to the
iron branch. As an article of household fuel, also, it is an in-
teresting production, the utility of which must increase in pro-
portion to the decrease of wood, by the progress of settlement
and cultivation. And its importance to navigation, as an im-
mense article of transportation coastwise, is signally exemplified
in Great Britain.

It is known that there are several coal mines in Virginia,
now worked ; and appearances of their existence are familiar in
a number of places.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 265

The expediency of a bounty on all this species of coal, of
home production, and of premiums on the opening of new
mines, under certain qualifications, appears to be worthy of par-
ticular examination. The great importance of the article will
amply justify a reasonable expense in this way, if it shall appear
to be necessary to, and shall be thought likely to answer, the
end.

WOOD.

Several manufactures of this article flourish in the United
States. Ships are nowhere built in greater perfection, and cab-
inet wares generally, are made little, if at all, inferior to those of
Europe. Their extent is such as to have admitted of considera-
ble exportation.

An exemption from duty, of the several kinds of wood ordi-
narily used in these manufactures, seems to be all that is requi-
site, by way of encouragement. It is recommended by the con-
sideration of a similar policy being pursued in other countries,
and by the expediency of giving equal advantages to our own
workmen in wood. The abundance of timber, proper for ship
building in the United States, does not appear to be any objec-
tion to it. The increasing scarcity, and growing importance
of that article, in the European countries, admonish the United
States to commence, and systematically to pursue, measures for
the preservation of their stock. Whatever may promote the
regular establishment of magazines of ship timber, is in various
views desirable.

SKINS.

There are scarcely any manufactories of greater importance
than of this article. Their direct and very happy influence upon
agriculture, by promoting the raising of cattle of different kinds,
is a very material recommendation.

It is pleasing, too, to observe the extensive progress they
have made in their principal branches, which are so far matured
as almost to defy foreign competition. Tanneries, in particular,
are not only carried on as a regular business, in numerous in-

c 18

266 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

stances, and in various parts of the country, but they constitute,
in some places, a valuable item of incidental family manufactures.
Representations, however, have been made, importing the
expediency of further encouragement to the leather branch, in
two ways : one by increasing the duty on the manufactures of it,
which are imported ; the other, by prohibiting the exportation
of bark. In support of the latter, it is alleged, that the price of
bark, chiefly in consequence of large exportations, has risen,
within a few years, from about three dollars to four and a half
per cord.

These suggestions are submitted, rather as intimations which
merit consideration, than as matters the propriety of which is
manifest. It is not clear that an increase of duty is necessary ;
and in regard to the prohibitions desired, there is no evidence of
any considerable exportation, hitherto ; and it is most probable
that, whatever augmentation of price may have taken place, is to
be attributed to an extension of the home demand, from the in-
crease of manufactures, and to a decrease of the supply, in conse-
quence of the progress of settlement, rather than to the quantities
which have been exported.

It is mentioned, however, as an additional reason for the pro-
hibition, that one species of the bark usually exported, is in some
sort peculiar to the country, and the material of a very valuable
dye, of great use in some other manufactures, in which the
United States have begun a competition.

There may also be this argument in favor of an increase of
duty. The object is of importance enough to claim decisive en-
couragement, and the progress which has been made, leaves no
room to apprehend any inconvenience on the score of supply,
from such an increase.

It would be of benefit to this branch, if glue, which is now
rated at five per cent., were made the object of an excluding
duty. It is already made, in large quantities, at various tan-
neries, and, like paper, is an entire economy of materials, which,
if not manufactured, would be left to perish. It may be placed,
with advantage, in the class of articles paying fifteen per cent.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 267

GRAIN.

Manufactures of the several species of this article have a title
to peculiar favor ; not only because they are, most of them, im-
mediately connected with the subsistence of the citizens, but be-
cause they enlarge the demand for the most precious products of
the soil.

Though flour may, with propriety, be noticed as a manufac-
ture of grain, it were useless to do it, but for the purpose of sub-
mitting the expediency of a general system of inspection, through-
out the ports of the United States ; which, if established upon
proper principles, would be likely to improve the quality of our
flour every where, and to raise its reputation in foreign markets.
There are, however, considerations which stand in the way of
such an arrangement.

Ardent spirits and malt liquors are, next to flour, the two
principal manufactures of grain. The first has made a very ex-
tensive, the last a considerable progress in the United States. In
respect to both, an exclusive possession of the home market
ought to be secured to the domestic manufacturers, as fast as cir-
cumstances will admit. Nothing is more practicable, and nothing
more desirable.

The existing laws of the United States have done much to-
wards attaining this valuable object; but some additions to the
present duties on foreign distilled spirits and foreign malt liquors,
and perhaps an abatement of those on home made spirits, would
more effectually secure it ; and there does not occur any very
weighty objection to either.

An augmentation of the duties on imported spirits would fa-
vor, as well the distillation of spirits from molasses, as that from
grain. And to secure to the nation the benefit of a manufacture,
even of foreign materials, is always of great, though perhaps of
secondary importance.

A strong impression prevails in the minds of those concerned
in distilleries (including, too, the most candid and enlightened),
that greater differences in the rates of duty on foreign and domes-
tic spirits are necessary, completely to secure the successful man-

268 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

ufacture of the latter, and there are facts which entitle this im-
pression to attention.

It is known that the price of molasses, for some years past,
has been successively rising in the West India markets, owing
partly to a competition which did not formerly exist, and partly
to an extension of demand in this country ; and it is evident,
that the late disturbances in those islands, from which we draw
our principal supply, must so far interfere with the production of
the article, as to occasion a material enhancement of price. The
destruction and devastation attendant on the insurrection in His-
paniola, in particular, must not only contribute very much to
that effect, but may be expected to give it some duration. These
circumstances, and the duty of three cents per gallon on molasses,
may render it difficult for the distillers of that material to main-
tain, with adequate profit, a competition with the rum brought
from the West Indies, the quality of which is so considerably
superior.

The consumption of geneva, or gin, in this country, is exten-
sive. It is not long since distilleries of it have grown up among
us to any importance. They are now becoming of consequence,
but being still in their infancy, they require protection.

It is represented that the price of some of the materials is
greater here, than in Holland, from which place large quantities
are brought ; the jDrice of labor considerably greater ; capitals en-
gaged in the business there, much larger than those which are
employed here ; the rate of profits at which the undertakers can
afford to carry it on, much less ; the prejudices in favor of im-
ported gin, strong. These circumstances are alleged to outweigh
the charges which attend the bringing of the article from Europe
to the United States, and the present difference of duty, so as to
obstruct the prosecution of the manufacture with due advantage.

Experiment could, perhaps, alone decide, with certainty, the
justness of the suggestions which are made ; but, in relation to
branches of manufacture so important, it would seem inexpedient
to hazard an unfavorable issue, and better to err on the side of
too great, than of too small a difference in the particular in ques-
tion.

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 269

It is, therefore, submitted, that an addition of two cents per
gallon be made to the duty on imported spirits of the first class
of proof, with a proportionable increase on those of higher proof;
and that a deduction of one cent per gallon be made from the
duty on spirits distilled within the United States, beginning with
the first class of proof, and a proportionable deduction from the
duty on those of higher proof.

It is ascertained that by far the greatest part of the malt li-
quors consumed in the United States, are the produce of domestic
breweries. It is desirable, and in all likelihood attainable, that
the whole consumption should be supplied by ourselves.

The malt liquors at home, though inferior to the best, are
equal to a great part of those which have been usually imported.
The progress already made is an earnest of what may be accom-
plished. The growing competition is an assurance of improve-
ment. This will be accelerated by measures tending to invite a
greater capital into this channel of employment.

To render the encouragement of domestic breweries decisive,
it may be advisable to substitute to the present rates of duty,
eight cents per gallon, generally ; and it will deserve to be con-
sidered as a guard against evasions, whether there ought not to
be a prohibition of their importation, except in casks of con-
siderable capacity. It is to be hoped, that such a duty would
banish from the market foreign malt liquors of inferior quality,
and that the best kind only would continue to be imported,
till it should be supplanted by the efforts of equal skill or care
at home.

Till that period, the importation, so qualified, would be a
useful stimulus to improvement, and, in the mean time, the pay-
ment of the increased price for the enjoyment of a luxury, in
order to the encouragement of a most useful branch of domestic
industry, could not reasonably be deemed a hardship.

As a further aid to manufactures of grain, though upon a
smaller scale, the articles of starch, hair-powder, and wafers,
may with great propriety be placed among those which are rated
at fifteen per cent. No manufactures are more simple, nor
more completely within the reach of a full supply from domestic

2(T0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

sources ; and it is a policy as common as it is obvious, to make
them the objects either of prohibitionary duties or of express
prohibition.

FLAX AND HEMP.

Manufactures of these articles have so much affinity to each
other, and they are so often blended, that they may, with ad-
vantage, be considered in conjunction. The importance of the
linen branch to agriculture, its precious effects upon household
industry, the ease with which the materials can be produced at
home, to any requisite extent, the great advances which have
been already made in the coarser fabrics of them, especially in
the family way, constitute claims of peculiar force to the patro-
nage of government.

This patronage may be afforded in various ways ; by promot-
ing the growth of the materials, by increasing the impediments
to an advantageous competition of rival foreign articles, by direct
bounties, or premiums upon the home manufactures.

1st. As to promoting the growth of the materials.

In respect to hemp, something has been already done by the
high duty upon foreign hemp. If the facilities for domestic pro-
duction were not unusually great, the policy of the duty on the
foreign raw material would be highly questionable, as interfering
with the growth or manufactures of it. But making the proper
allowances for those facilities, and with an eye to the future and
natural progress of the country, the measure does not appear,
upon the whole, exceptionable.

A strong wish naturally suggests itself, that some method
could be devised, of affording a more direct encouragement to
the growth both of flax and hemp ; such as would be effectual,
and, at the same time, not attended with too great inconveni-
ences. To this end, bounties and premiums offer themselves to
consideration, but no modification of them has yet occurred,
which would not either hazard too much expense, or operate
unequally, in reference to the circumstances of different parts of
the Union ; and which would not be attended with very great
difficulties in the execution.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 271

2d. As to increasing the impediments to an advantageous
competition of rival foreign articles.

To this purpose, an augmentation of the duties on importa-
tion is the obvious expedient, which, in regard to certain articles,
appears to be recommended by sufficient reasons.

The principal of these articles, is sail-cloth — one intimately
connected with navigation and defence ; and of which, a flourish-
ing manufactory is established at Boston, and very promising
ones at several other places.

It is presumed to be both safe and advisable to place this in
the class of articles rated at ten per cent. A strong reason for
it results from the consideration, that a bounty of two pence
sterling, per ell, is allowed in Great Britain, upon the exporta-
tion of the sail-cloth manufactured in that kingdom.

It would likewise appear to be good policy to raise the duty
to seven and a half per cent., on the following articles : Drillings,
osnaburgs, ticklenburgs, dowals, canvass, brown rolls, bagging,
and upon all other linens, the first cost of which, at the place of
exportation, does dot exceed thirty-five cents per yard. A
bounty of twelve and a half per cent, upon an average, on the
exportation of such or similar linens from Great Britain, en-
courages the manufacture of them in that country, and increases
the obstacles to a successful competition in the countries to which
they are sent.

The quantities of tow and other household linens, manufac-
tured in different parts of the United States, and the expectations
which are derived from some late experiments, of being able to
extend the use of labor-saving machines, in the coarser fabrics
of linen, obviate the danger of inconvenience from an increase
of the duty upon such articles, and authorize a hope of speedy
and complete success to the endeavors which may be used for
procuring an internal supply.

3d. As to direct bounties or premiums upon the manufactur-
ed articles.

To afford more effectual encouragement to the manufacture,
and at the same time to promote the cheapness of the article, for
the benefit of navigation, it will be of great use to allow a bounty

272 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

of two cents per yard on all sail-cloth which is made in the United
States, from materials of their own growth. This would also
assist the culture of those materials. An encouragement of this
kind, if adopted, ought to be established for a moderate term of
years, to invite to new undertakings, and to an extension of the
old. This is an article of importance enough to warrant the
employment of extraordinary means in its favor.

COTTON.

There is something in the texture of this material, which
adapts it, in a peculiar degree, to the application of machines.
The signal utility of the mill for spinning of cotton, not long
since invented in England, has been noticed in another place ;
but there are other machines, scarcely inferior in utility, which,
in the different manufactories of this article, are employed, either
exclusively, or with more than ordinary effect. This very im-
portant circumstance recommends the fabrics of cotton, in a more
particular manner, to a country in which a defect of hands con-
stitutes the greatest obstacle to success.

The variety and extent of the uses to which the manufactures
of this article are applicable, is another powerful argument in
their favor.

And the faculty of the United States to produce the raw
material in abundance, and of a quality which, though alleged
to be inferior to some that is produced in other quarters, is
nevertheless capable of being used with advantage in many
fabrics, and is probably susceptible of being carried by a more
experienced culture, to much greater perfection, suggests an
additional and a very cogent inducement to the vigorous pursuit
of the cotton branch, in its several subdivisions.

How much has been already done, has been stated in a pre-
ceding part of this report.

In addition to this, it may be announced, that a society is
forming, with a capital which is expected to be extended to at
least half a million of dollars, on behalf of which, measures are
already in train for prosecuting, on a large scale, the making
and printing of cotton goods.

jEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 273

These circumstances conspire to indicate the expediency of
removing any obstructions which may happen to exist, to the
advantageous prosecution of the manufactories in question, and
of adding such encouragements as may appear necessary and
proper.

The present duty of three cents per pound, on the foreign
raw material, is undoubtedly a very serious impediment to the
progress of those manufactories.

The injurious tendency of similar duties, either prior to the
establishment, or in the infancy of the domestic manufacture of
the article, as it regards the manufacture, and their worse than
inutility, in relation to the home production of the material itself,
have been anticipated, particularly in discussing the subject of
pecuniary bounties.

Cotton has not the same pretensions with hemp, to form an
exception to the general rule.

Not being, like hemp, an universal production of the country,
it affords less assurance of an adequate internal supply ; but the
chief objection arises from the doubts which are entertained,
concerning the quality of the national cotton. It is alleged that
the fibre of it is considerably shorter and weaker, than that of
some other places ; and it has been observed, as a general rule,
that the nearer the place of growth to the equator, the better the
quality of the cotton. That which comes from Cayenne, Surinam,
and Demarara, is said to be preferable, even at a material differ-
ence of price, to the cotton of the islands.

While a hope may reasonably be indulged, that, with due
care and attention, the national cotton may be made to approach
nearer than it now does to that of regions somewhat more
favored by climate ; and while facts authorize an opinion that
very great use may be made of it, and that it is a resource which
gives greater security to the cotton fabrics of this country, than
can be enjoyed by any which depends wholly on external
supply, it will certainly be wise, in every view, to let our infant
manufactures have the full benefit of the best materials, on the
cheapest terms. It is obvious that the necessity of having
such materials is proportioned to the unskilfulness and inexpe-

274 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

rience of the workmen employed, who, if inexpert, will not
fail to commit great waste, where the materials they are to
work with are of an indifferent kind.

To secure to the national manufacturers so essential an ad-
vantage, a repeal of the present duty on imported cotton is
indispensable.

A substitute for this, far more encouraging to domestic pro-
duction, will be to grant a bounty on the national cotton, when
wrought at a home manufactory ; to which a bounty on the
exportation of it may be added. Either, or both, would do
much more towards promoting the growth of the article, than
the merely nominal encouragement, which it is proposed to
abolish. The first would also have a direct influence in en-
couraging the manufacture.

The bounty which has been mentioned, as existing in Great
Britain, upon the exportation of coarse linens, not exceeding a
certain value, applies also to certain descriptions of cotton goods
of similar value.

This furnishes an additional argument for allowing to the
national manufactures, the species of encouragement just suggest-
ed, and, indeed, for adding some other aid.

One cent per yard, not less than of a given width, on all goods
of cotton, or of cotton and linen mixed, which are manufactured
in the United States, with the addition of one cent per pound
weight of the material, if made of national cotton, would amount
to an aid of considerable importance, both to the production and
to the manufacture of that valuable article. And it is conceived
that the expense would be well justified by the magnitude of
the object.

The printing and staining of cotton goods is known to be
a distinct business from the fabrication of them. It is one
easily accomplished, and which, as it adds materially to the
value of the article in its white state, and prepares it for a
variety of new uses, is of importance to be promoted.

As imported cottons, equally with those which are made
at home, may be the objects of this manufacture, it will merit
consideration, whether the whole, or a part of the duty, on

vEt.34.] manufactures. 275

the white goods, ought not to be allowed to be drawn back
in favor of those who print or stain them. This measure would
certainly operate as a powerful encouragement to the business ;
and though it may, in a degree, counteract the original fabri-
cation of the articles, it would probably more than compensate
for this disadvantage, in the rapid growth of a collateral branch,
which is of a nature sooner to attain to maturity. When a
sufficient progress shall have been made, the drawback may be
abrogated, and by that time the domestic supply of the articles
to be printed or stained will have been extended.

If the duty of seven and a half per cent, on certain kinds of
cotton goods, were extended to all goods of cotton, or of which
it is the principal material, it would probably more than counter-
balance the effect of the drawback proposed, in relation to the
fabrication of the article. And no material objection occurs to
such an extension. The duty, then, considering all the circum-
stances which attend goods of this description, could not be
deemed inconveniently high ; and it may be inferred, from
various causes, that the prices of them would still continue
moderate.

Manufactories of cotton goods, not long since established at
Beverly, in Massachusetts, and at Providence, in the State of
Ehode Island, and conducted with a perseverance correspond-
ing with the patriotic motives which began them, seem to have
overcome the first obstacles to success: producing corduroys,
velverets, fustians, jeans, and other similar articles, of a quality
which will bear a comparison with the like articles brought from
Manchester. The one at Providence has the merit of being the
first introducing into the United States the celebrated cotton
mill, which not only furnishes materials for that manufactory
itself \ but for the supply of private families, for household manu-
facture.

Other manufactories of the same material, as regular businesses,
have also been begun at different places in the State of Connecti-
cut, but all upon a smaller scale than those above-mentioned.
Some essays are also making in the printing and staining of
cotton goods. There are several small establishments of this
kind, already on foot.

276 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

WOOL.

In a country, the climate of which partakes of so considerable
a proportion of winter, as that of a great part of the United
States, the woollen branch cannot be regarded as inferior to any,
which relates to the clothing of the inhabitants.

Household manufactures of this material are carried on in
different parts of the United States, to a very interesting extent;
but there is only one branch, which, as a regular business, can
be said to have acquired maturity. This is the making of hats.

Hats of wool, and of wool mixed with fur, are made in large
quantities, in different States ; and nothing seems wanting, but
an adequate supply of materials, to render the manufacture
commensurate with the demand.

A promising essay, towards the fabrication of cloths, cassi-
meres, and other woollen goods, is likewise going on, at I In it ford,
in Connecticut. Specimens of the different kinds which are
made, in the possession of the Secretary, evince that these fabrics
have attained a very considerable degree of perfection. Their
quality certainly surpasses any thing that could have been look-
ed for in so short a time, and under so great disadvantages ; and
conspires, with the scantiness of the means, which have been at
the command of the directors, to form the eulogium of that
public spirit, perseverance, and judgment, which have been able
to accomplish so much.

To cherish and bring to maturity this precious embryo, must
engage the most ardent wishes, and proportionable regret, as far
as the means of doing it may appear difficult or uncertain.

Measures which should tend to promote an abundant supply
of wool, of good quality, would probably afford the most effica-
cious aid that present circumstances permit.

To encourage the raising and improving the breed of sheep,
at home, would certainly be the most desirable expedient for
that purpose; but it may not be alone sufficient, especially as it
is, yet, a problem, whether our wool be capable of such a degree
of improvement as to render it fit for the finer fabrics.

Premiums would probably be found the best means of pro-

Mt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 277

moting the domestic, and bounties the foreign supply. The first
may be within the compass of the institution, hereafter to be sub-
mitted. The last would require a specific legislative provision.
If any bounties are granted, they ought, of course, to be adjusted
with an eye to quality as well as quantity.

A fund for the purpose may be derived from the addition of
two and a half per cent, to the present rate of duty on carpets
and carpeting ; an increase to which the nature of the articles
suggests no objection, and which may, at the same time, furnish
a motive the more to the fabrication of them at home, towards
which some beginnings have been made.

SILK.

The production of this article is attended with great facility
in most parts of the United States. Some pleasing essays are
making in Connecticut, as well towards that, as towards the
manufacture of what is produced. Stockings, handkerchiefs,
ribbons, and buttons, are made, though as yet but in small
quantities.

A manufactory of lace, upon a scale not very extensive, has
been long memorable at Ipswich, in the State of Massachusetts.

An exemption of the material from the duty which it now
pays on importation, and premiums upon the production to be
dispensed under the direction of the institution before alluded to,
seem to be the only species of encouragement advisable at so
early a stage of the thing.

GLASS.

The materials for making glass are found every where. In
the United States there is no deficiency of them. The sands
and stones called tar so, which include flinty and crystalline sub-
stances generally, and the salts of various plants, particularly of
the sea-weed kali, or kelp, constitute the essential ingredients.
An extraordinary abundance of fuel is a particular advantage
enjoyed by this country for such manufactures. They, however,
require large capitals, and involve much manual labor.

278 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[iEi. 34.

Different manufactories of glass are now on foot in the
United States. The present duty of twelve and a half per cent,
on all imported articles of glass, amounts to a considerable en-
couragement to those manufactories. If any thing in addition
is judged eligible, the most proper would appear to be a direct
bounty on window-glass and black bottles.

The first recommends itself as an object of general conveni-
ence ; the last adds to that character the circumstance of being
.an important item in breweries. A complaint is made of
great deficiency in this respect.

GUNPOWDER.

No small progress has been, of late, made in the manufacture
of this very important article. It may, indeed, be considered
as already established ; but its high importance renders its further
extension very desirable.

The encouragement which it already enjoys, are a duty of
ten per cent, on the foreign rival article, and an exemption of
saltpetre, one of the principal ingredients of which it is com-
posed, from duty. A like exemption of sulphur, another chief
ingredient, would appear to be equally proper. No quantity of
this article has yet been produced from internal sources. The
use made of it in finishing the bottoms of ships, is an additional
inducement to placing it in the class of free goods. Eegulations
for the careful inspection of the article, would have a favorable
tendency.

PAPER.

Manufactories of paper are among those which are arrived
at the greatest maturity in the United States, and are most ade-
quate to national supply. That of paper-hangings, is a branch
in which respectable progress has been made.

Nothing material seems wanting to the further success of this
valuable branch, which is already protected by a competent duty
on similar imported articles.

In the enumeration of the several kinds made subject to that

jEt.34.] manufactures. 279

duty, sheathing and cartridge paper have been omitted. These
being the most simple manufactures of the sort, and necessary
to militarjr supply, as well as ship-building, recommend them-
selves equally with those of other descriptions, to encourage-
ment, and appear to be as fully within the compass of domestic
exertions.

PRINTED BOOKS.

The great number of presses disseminated throughout the
Union, seem to afford an assurance, that there is no need of be-
ing indebted to foreign countries for the printing of the books
which are used in the United States. A duty of ten per cent,
instead of five, which is now charged upon the article, would
have a tendency to aid the business internally.

It occurs as an objection to this, that it may have an unfavor-
able aspect towards literature, by raising the prices of books, in
universal use in private families, schools, and other seminaries
of learning. But the difference, it is conceived, would be with-
out effect.

As to books which usually fill the libraries of the wealthier
classes, and of professional men, such an augmentation of price
as might be occasioned by an additional duty of five per cent.,
would be too little felt to be an impediment to the acquisition.

And with regard to books which may be specially imported
for the use of particular seminaries of learning, and of public
libraries, a total exemption from duty would be advisable, which
would go far towards obviating the objection just mentioned.
They are now subject to a duty of five per cent.

As to the books in most general family use, the constancy
and universality of the demand, would insure exertions to fur-
nish them at home, and the means are completely adequate. It
may also be expected ultimately, in this, as in other cases, that
the extension of the domestic manufacture would conduce to the
cheapness of the article.

It ought not to pass unremarked, that, to encourage the
printing of books, is to encourage the manufacture of paper.

280 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

KEFINED SUGARS AND CHOCOLATE

Are among the number of extensive and prosperous domestic
manufactures.

Drawbacks of the duties upon the materials of which they
are respectively made, in cases of exportation, would have a
beneficial influence upon the manufacture, and would conform
to a precedent which has been already furnished in the instance
of molasses, on the exportation of distilled spirits.

Cocoa, the raw material, now pays a duty of one cent per
pound, while chocolate, which is a prevailing and very simple
manufacture, is comprised in the mass of articles rated at no
more than five per cent.

There would appear to be a propriety in encouraging the
manufacture by a somewhat higher duty on its foreign rival,
than is paid on the raw material. Two cents per pound on
imported chocolate, would, it is presumed, be without incon-
venience.

The foregoing heads comprise the most important of the
several kinds of manufactures which have occurred as requiring,
and, at the same time, as most proper for public encouragement;
and such measures for affording it as have appeared best calcu-
lated to answer the end, have been suggested.

The observations which have accompanied this delineation
of objects, supersede the necessity of many supplementary re-
marks. One or two, however, may not be altogether super-
fluous.

Bounties are, in various instances, proposed, as one species
of encouragement.

It is a familiar objection to them, that they are difficult to
be managed, and liable to frauds. But neither that difficulty
nor this danger seems sufficiently great to countervail the advan-
tages of which they are productive, when rightly applied. And
it is presumed to have been shown, that they are, in some cases,
particularly in the infancy of new enterprises, indispensable.

It will, however, be necessary to guard, with extraordinary

JEt. 34.] MANUFACTURES. '281

circumspection, the manner of dispensing them. The requisite
precautions have been thought of, but to enter into the detail,
would swell this report, already voluminous, to a size too incon-
venient.

If the principle shall not be deemed inadmissible, the means ot
avoiding an abuse of it will not be likely to present insurmount-
able obstacles. There are useful guides from practice in other
quarters.

It shall, therefore, only be remarked here, in relation to this
point, that any bounty which may be applied to the manufacture
of an article, cannot, with safety, extend beyond those manufac-
tories at which the making of the article is a regular trade. It
would be impossible to annex adequate precautions to a benefit
of that nature, if extended to every private family in which the
manufacture was incidentally carried on ; and its beiug a merely
incidental occupation, which engages a portion of time that
would otherwise be lost, it can be advantageously carried on
without so special an aid.

The possibility of a diminution of the revenue may also pre-
sent itself as an objection to the arrangements which have been
submitted.

But there is no truth which may be more firmly relied upon,
than that the interests of the revenue are promoted by whatever
promotes an increase of national industry and wealth.

In proportion to the degree of these, is the capacity of every
country to contribute to the public treasury ; and where the
capacity to pay is increased, or even is not decreased, the only
consequence of measures which diminish any particular resource,
is a change of the object. If, by encouraging the manufacture
of an article at home, the revenue which has been wont to accrue
from its importation should be lessened, an indemnification can
easily be found, either out of the manufacture itself, or from
some other object which may be deemed more convenient.

The measures, however, which have been submitted, taken
aggregately, will, for a long time to come, rather augment than
decrease the public revenue.

There is little room to hope, that the progress of manufac-

c 19

282 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

tures will so equally keep pace with the progress of population,
as to prevent even a gradual augmentation of the product of the
duties on imported articles.

As, nevertheless, an abolition in some instances, and a re-
duction in others, of duties which have been pledged for the pub-
lic debt, is proposed, it is essential that it should be accompanied
with a competent substitute. In order to this, it is requisite that
all the additional duties which shall be laid, be appropriated, in
the first instance, to replace all defalcations which may proceed
from any such abolition or diminution. It is evident, at first
glance, that they will not only be adequate to this, but will
yield a considerable surplus. This surplus will serve —

First. To constitute a fund for paying the bounties which
shall have been decreed.

Secondly. To constitute a fund for the operations of a board
to be established, for promoting arts, agriculture, manufactures,
and commerce. Of this institution, different intimations have
been given in the course of this report. An outline of a plan
for it shall now be submitted.

Let a certain annual sum be set apart, and placed under the
management of commissioners, not less than three, to consist of
certain officers of the Government and their successors in office.

Let these commissioners be empowered to apply the fund
confided to them, to defray the expenses of the emigration of
artists, and manufacturers in particular branches of extraordi-
nary importance • to induce the prosecution and introduction of
useful discoveries, inventions, and improvements, by proportion-
ate rewards, judiciously held out and applied; to encourage by
premiums, both honorable and lucrative, the exertions of indi-
viduals and of classes, in relation to the several objects they are
charged with promoting ; and to afford such other aids to those
objects as may be generally designated by law.

The commissioners to render to the Legislature an annual
account of their transactions and disbursements ; and all such
sums as shall not have been applied to the purposes of their
trust, at the end of every three years, to revert to the treasury.
It may, also, be enjoined upon them not to draw out the money,
but for the purpose of some specific disbursement.

Ml. 34.] MANUFACTURES. 28?>

It may, moreover, be of use to authorize them to receive vol-
untary contributions, making it their duty to apply them to the
particular objects for which they may have been made, if any
shall have been designated by the donors.

There is reason to believe that the progress of particular
manufactures has been much retarded by the want of skilful
workmen. And it often happens, that the capitals employed are
not equal to the purposes of bringing from abroad workmen of
a superior kind. Here, in cases worthy of it, the auxiliary
agency of Government would, in all probability, be useful.
There are also valuable workmen in every branch, who are pre-
vented from emigrating, solely, by the want of means. Occa-
sional aids to such persons, properly administered, might be a
source of valuable acquisitions to the country.

The propriety of stimulating by rewards the invention and
introduction of useful improvements, is admitted without diffi-
culty. But the success of attempts in this way, must evidently
depend much on the manner of conducting them. It is probable
that the placing of the dispensation of those rewards under some
proper discretionary direction, where they may be accompanied
by collateral expedients, will serve to give them the surest effi-
cacy. It seems impracticable to apportion, by general rules.
specific compensations for discoveries of unknown and dispro-
portionate utility.

The great use which may be made of a fund of this nature,
to procure and import foreign improvements, is particularly ob-
vious. Among these, the article of machines would form a most
important item.

The operation and utility of premiums have been adverted to,
together with the advantages which have resulted from their dis-
pensation, under the direction of certain public and private
societies. Of this, some experience has been had, in the instance
of the Pennsylvania Society for the promotion of manufactures
and useful arts ; but the funds of that association have been too
contracted to produce more than a very small portion of the
good to which the principles of it would have led. It may con-
fidently be affirmed, that there is scarcely any thing which has

284 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

been devised, better calculated to excite a general spirit of im-
provement, than the institutions of this nature. They are truly
invaluable.

In countries where there is great private wealth, much may
be effected by the voluntary contributions of patriotic individu-
als ; but in a community situated like that of the United States,
the public purse must supply the deficiency of private resource.
In what can it be so useful, as in prompting and improving the
efforts of industry ?

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

ESTIMATES OF EECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES

FOR 1791-2.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 23, 1792.

Treasury Department, January 23, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the order of the
House of Representatives of the 19th instant, respectfully
makes the following report :

At the close of the year 1790, there was a considerable sur-
plus of revenue beyond the objects of expenditure, which had
required a provision to that period ; which surplus, by an act of
the 12th of August in that year, was appropriated to the reduc-
tion of the public debt.

The statement A, herewith submitted, will show in one view
all the sums, which, according to the establishments heretofore
made, and corresponding appropriations, have required, and will
require, to be defrayed, from the beginning of the year 1791, to
the end of the year 1792, amounting together, to seven millions
and eighty-two thousand one hundred and ninety-seven dollars
and seventy-four cents.

jEt. 35.] RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES. 285

The statement B will also show, in one view, the net pro-
duct of all the public revenues, for the same period, according
to the best calculation and estimate which can now be formed of
it, amounting to seven millions and twenty -nine thousand seven
hundred and fifty-five dollars and twenty-six cents.

The statement 0 exhibits a summary of the total annual ex-
penditure of the United States, in conformity to existing estab-
lishments, amounting to three millions six hundred and eighty-
eight thousand and forty-three dollars, fifty cents.

The statement B includes a view of the probable product,
during the year 1792, of the existing revenues of the United
States, amounting to three millions seven hundred thousand
dollars.

From these statements will result substantially, the informa-
tion which is desired by the House of Representatives, as far as
it is now in the power of the Secretary to give it.

One or two matters, however, may be proper to be added,
with a view to greater accuracy.

There are certain instances, in which the estimates of appro-
priations have exceeded, and will exceed, the sums actually ex-
pended. Hence the apparent excess of the expenditure, as exhi-
bited in the statement A, beyond the product of the revenue, as
shown in the statement B, will, probably, not be found real.
But the amount of these surplusses or over-estimates cannot be
now ascertained, and it is not likely to be very considerable ;
and because, also, if it should do more than counterbalance the
excess alluded to, it will be safest to set off the surplus against
those contingent demands, which, from time to time, occur.

No deduction has been made from the annual interest on
account of the debt purchased. This has proceeded from a sup-
position that it will be deemed expedient by the Legislature, to
appropriate inviolably the interest of any part of the debt which
shall be, at any time, extinguished, towards the extinction of the
remainder. This point will be more particularly submitted in a
report on the subject of the public debt.
All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mr. 34.

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 7, 1792.

Treasury Department. January 23. 1792.

Pursuant to the order of the House of Eepresentatives of the
first of November, 1791, directing the Secretary of the Trea-
sury " to report to the House the amount of the subscriptions
to the loans proposed by the act making provision for the
public debt, as well in the debts of the respective States, as
in the domestic debt of the United States, and of the parts
which remain unsubscribed, together with such measures as
are, in his opinion, expedient to be taken on the subject,"
the said Secretary respectfully submits the following report :

The whole amount of the domestic debt
of the United States, principal and interest,
which has been subscribed to the loan pro-
posed concerning that debt, by the act, en-
titled " An act making provision for the
debt of the United States," according to
the statement herewith transmitted, marked
A, and subject to the observations accom-
panying that statement, is, - -

$31,797,481 22

Which, pursuant to the terms of that act, has
been converted into stock bearing an im-
mediate interest of six per cent, per annum, 14,177,450 43

Stock bearing the like interest from the first of

January, 1801, 7,088,727 79

Stock bearing an immediate interest of three per

cent, per annum, 10,531,303 00

Making, together, $31,797,481 22

-St. 35.] LOANS. 287

Of which, there stands to the credit of the trus-
tees of the sinking fund, in consequence of
purchases of the public debt made under
their direction, the sum of - - $1,131,364 76

The unsubscribed residue of the said debt, accord-
ing to the statements herewith transmitted,
marked B and 0, and subject to the obser-
vations accompanying the statement C, ap-
pears to amount to $10,616,604 65

Consisting of registered debt, principal and

interest, - 6,795,815 26

Unsubscribed stock on the books of the com-
missioners of loans for New Jersey, Penn-
sylvania, and Maryland, principal and
interest, - - - 15,674 62

Credits on the books of the treasury, for which
no certificates have been issued, principal
and interest, ------ 107,648 63

Outstanding or floating evidences of debt, esti-
mated, per statement C, at 3,697,466 14

Making, together, $10,616,604 65

Concerning which some further arrangement is necessary.

The greatest part of the registered debt, hitherto unsubscribed?
is owned by citizens of foreign countries, most, if not all of
whom appear now disposed to embrace the terms held out by
the act above mentioned ; extensive orders having been received
from those creditors, to subscribe to the loan, after the time
for receiving subscriptions had elapsed.

A considerable part of the outstanding or floating debt con-
sists of loan-office certificates, issued between the first of Septem-
ber, 1777, and the first of March, 1778, bearing interest on the
nominal sum. Many of the holders of this species of debt have
come in upon the terms of this act, but others have, hitherto,
declined it; alleging that the special nature of their contract

288 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

gives a peculiarity to their case, and renders the commutation
proposed not so fair an equivalent to them, as in other instances.
They also complain, that the act has had, towards them, a com-
pulsory aspect, by refusing the temporary payment of interest,
unless they should exchange their old for new certificates, essen-
tially varying the nature of their contract.

A resolution of Congress of the tenth of September, 1777,
stipulates, in favor of this class of creditors, interest upon the
nominal, instead of the real principal of their debt, until that
principal he discharged. This, certainly renders their contract of
a nature more beneficial than that of other creditors ; but
they are, at the same time, liable to be divested of the extra
benefit it gives them by a payment of their specie dues ; and it
may be observed, that they have actually enjoyed, and by ac-
cepting the terms offered to them, were enabled to realize, ad-'
vantages superior to other creditors. They have been paid in-
terest by bills on France from the tenth of September, 1777, to
the first of March, 1782, while other creditors receive their in-
terest in depreciated bills of the old emissions ; and the terms
of the loan proposed put it in their power to realize the benefit
of interest, on the nominal amount of their respective debts, at
rates from 6 f^ nearly to 10 f-fc per cent, on their real or specie
capital down to the last of December, 1790.

It does not, therefore, appear to have been an unreasonable
expectation, that they, as readily as any other description of pub-
lic creditors, would have acquiesced in a measure calculated for
the accommodation of the Government, under circumstances in
respect to which, it has been demonstrated, by subsequent events,
that the accommodation desired, was consistent with the best
interest of the public creditors. A large proportion of the
parties interested have, indeed, viewed the matter in this light,
and have embraced the proposition. It is probable that the pro-
gress of things will satisfy the remainder that it is equally their
interest to concur, if a further opportunity be afforded. But it
is, nevertheless, for themselves only to judge, how far the equiv-
alent proposed is, in their case, a reasonable and fair one ; how
far any circumstances in their claim may suggest reasons for

Mt. 35.] LOANS. 289

moderation on their part ; or how far any other motives, public
or private, ought to induce an acceptance. And the principles
of good faith require, that their election should be free.

On this ground, the complaint which regards the withhold-
ing of a temporary payment of interest, except on the condi-
tion of surrender of the old certificates for new ones, importing a
contract substantially different, appears, to the Secretary, not
destitute of foundation. He presumes that the operation of that
provision, in the particular case, was not adverted to ; or, that
an exception would have been introduced, as most consonant
with the general spirit and design of the act. Accordingly, the
further measures which will be submitted, will contemplate a
method of obviating the objection in question.

From the consideration that an extension of the time for re-
ceiving subscriptions, upon the terms of the act making provision
for the debt of the United States, is desired by a large propor-
tion of the non-subscribing creditors ; and from the further con-
sideration, that sufficient experience has not yet been had of the
productiveness of a considerable branch of the revenues which
have been established, to afford the light necessary to a final ar-
rangement, it is, in the judgment of the Secretary, advisable to
renew the proposition for a loan in the domestic debt, on the
same terms with the one which has been closed, and to allow
time for receiving subscriptions to it, until the last day of Sep-
tember next, inclusively ; making provision for a temporary
payment of interest, to such who may not think fit to subscribe,
for the year 1792, of the like nature with that which was made
in the same case for the year 1791, except, as to the holders of
loan-office certificates, issued between the first of September,
1777, and the first of March, 1778 ; in respect to whom it is
submitted as proper to dispense with the obligation of exchang-
ing their old certificates for new, as the condition of their re-
ceiving interest in capacity of non-subscribers ; and to allow
them, without such exchange, to receive the same interest, both
for the year 1791, and 1792, as if they had subscribed to the
first loan. It will not be materially difficult so to regulate the
operation at the treasury, as to avoid, in the particular case, that

290 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

danger of imposition by counterfeits, which was the motive to
the general provision for an exchange of certificates.

2. The amount of the subscriptions in the debt of the re-
spective States, within the limits of the sum assumed in each, ap-
pears, by the statement marked D, to be $17,072,834 39, subject
to the observations accompanying that statement. Consequent-
ly the difference between the aggregate of the sums subscribed,
and the aggregate of the sums assumed, is $4,427,665 61. This
difference is to be attributed to several causes — the principal
of which are the following: First, that the sums assumed,
in respect to certain States, exceeded the actual amount of
their existing debts. Second, that, in various instances, a part
of the existing debt was in a form which excluded it from
being received, without contravening particular provisions of
the law ; as in the case of certificates issued after the first day
of January, 1790, in lieu of certificates which had been
issued prior to that period, which was reported upon by the
Secretary on the twenty -fifth day of February last. Third, ig-
norance of, or inattention to, the limitation of time for receiv-
ing subscriptions. It appears that a number of persons lost the
opportunity of subscribing from the one or the other of these
causes.

A strong desire that a further opportunity may be afforded
for subscriptions in the debts of the States, has been manifested
by the individuals interested. And the States of Ehode Island
and New Hampshire have, by the public acts referred to the
Secretary, indicated a similar desire. The affording of such
further opportunity, may either be restricted within the limit,
as to amount, which is contemplated by the act itself, or may re-
ceive an extension which will embrace the residuary debts of the
States.

The first may be considered as nothing more than giving full
effect to a measure already adopted.

The last appears to have in its favor all the leading induce-
ments to what has been already clone. The embarrassments
which might arise from conflicting systems of finance are not
entirely obviated. The efficacious command of the national

JEt. 35.] LOANS. 291

resources for national exigencies, is not unequivocally secured.
The equalizing of the condition of the citizens of every State,
and exonerating those of the States most indebted, from partial
burthens which would press upon them, in consequence of exer-
tions in a common cause, is not completely fulfilled, until the
entire debt of every State, contracted in relation to the war, is em-
braced in one general and comprehensive plan. The inconveni-
ence to the United States of disburthening the States, which are
still encumbered with considerable debts, would bear no propor-
tion to the inconvenience which they would feel, if left to strug-
gle with those debts, unaided.

More general contentment, therefore, in the public mind, may
be expected to attend such an exoneration, than the reverse ; in
proportion as the experience of actual inconvenience would be
greater, though only applicable to parts, in the one, than in the
other case.

With regard to States, parts only of the debts of which have
been assumed, and in proportions short of those which have pre-
vailed, in favor of other States, and short, also, of what would
have resulted from a due apportionment of the entire sum as-
sumed ; the claim to a further assumption is founded on consid-
erations of equal justice, as relative to the measure itself, consid-
ered in a separate and independent light.

But there is a further reason of material weight for an imme-
diate general assumption. Moneyed men, as well foreigners as
citizens, through the expectation of an eventual assumption, or
that, in some shape or other, a substantial provision will be made
for the unassumed residue of the State debts, will be induced to
speculate in the purchase of them. In proportion as the event
is unsettled, or uncertain, the price- of the article will be low, and
the present proprietors will be under disadvantage in the sale.
The loss to them in favor of the purchasers is to be regarded as
an evil ; and as far as it is connected with a transfer to foreigners,
at an undervalue, it will be a national evil. By whatsoever
authority an ultimate provision may be made, there will be an
absolute loss to the community, equal to the total amount of such
undervalue.

292 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

It may appear an objection to the measure, that it will re-
quire an establishment of additional funds by the Government
of the United States. But this does not seem to be a necessary
consequence. The probability is, that, without a supplementary
assumption, an equal or very nearly equal augmentation of funds
will be requisite to provide for greater- balances in favor of certain
States; which would be proportionably diminished by such as-
sumption. The destination, not the quantum of the fund, will,
therefore, be the chief distinction between the two cases.

It may, also, appear an objection to a total assumption, that
the magnitude of the object is not ascertained with precision. It
is not certainly known, what is the sum due in each State ; nor
has it been possible to acquire the information, owing to different
causes. But, though precise data are deficient, there are mate-
rials which will serve as guides. From the returns received at
the treasury, assisted by information in other ways, it may be
stated, without danger of material error, that the remaining debts
of the States, over and above the sums already subscribed, will
not exceed the amounts specified in statement D, accompanying
this report. And that, including sums already subscribed, the
total amount to be ultimately provided for, in the event of a gen-
eral assumption, will not exceed 25,403,362Ty„ dollars, which
would constitute an addition of 3, 903, 3 62 yW dollars to the sum
of 21,500,000 dollars already assumed.

Should a total assumption be deemed eligible, it may, still, be
advisable to assign a determinate sum for each State, that the
utmost limit of the operation may be pre-established ; and it is
necessary, in order to the certainty of a due provision, in proper
time, that interest should not begin to be payable, on the addi-
tional sums assumed, till after the year 1792.

It will occur, that provision has been made for paying to each
State, in trust for its non-subscribing creditors, an interest upon
the difference between the sum assumed for each State, and that
actually subscribed, equal to what would have been payable, if it
had been subscribed.

In the event of a further assumption, either within the limits
already established, or commensurate with the remaining debts

jEt. 35.] LOANS. 293

of the States, it is conceived that it will not be incompatible with
the provision just mentioned, to retain, at the end of each quar-
ter, during the progress of the further subscription, out of the
money directed to be paid to each State, a sum corresponding
with the interest upon so much of its debts as shall have been
subscribed to that period, paying the overplus, if any, to the
State. An absolute suspension of that payment does not appear
consistent with the nature of the stipulation included in that pro-
vision ; for, though the money to be paid to a State be expressly
a trust for the non-subscribing creditors, yet, as it cannot be cer-
tain beforehand, that they will elect to change their condition,
the possibility of it will not justify a suspension of payment to
the State, which might operate as suspension of payment to the
creditors themselves.

A further objection to such a suspension results from the idea,
that the provision in question appears to have a secondary ob-
ject : namely, as a pledge for securing a provision for whatever
balance may be found due to a State, on the general settlement
of accounts. The payment directed to be made to a State is " to
continue until there shall be a settlement of accounts between
the United States and the individual States, and, in case a bal-
ance should then appear in favor of a State, until provision shall
be made for the said balance."

This secondary operation as a pledge or security (consistently
with the intent of the funding act) can only be superseded in
favor of the primary object, & provision for the creditors, and as far
as may be necessary to admit them to an effectual participation
of it. But as whatever money may be paid to a State, is to be
paid over to its creditors, proportional deductions may, with pro-
priety, be made from the debts of those creditors who may here-
after subscribe, so as that the United States may not have to pay
twice for the same purpose.

If it shall be judged expedient either to open again, or extend
the assumption, it will be necessary to vary the description of the
debts which may be subscribed, so as to comprehend all those
which have relation to services or supplies during the war, under
such restrictions as are requisite to guard against abuse.

294 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

In tlie original proposition for an assumption of the State
debts, and in the suggestions now made on the same subject, the
Secretary has contemplated, and still contemplates, as a material
part of the plan, an effectual provision for the sale of the vacant
lands of the United States. He has considered this resource as
an important mean of sinking a part of the debt, and facilitating
ultimate arrangements concerning the residue. If supplementary
funds shall be rendered necessary, by an additional assumption,
the provision will most conveniently be made at the next session
of Congress, when the productiveness of the existing revenues,
and the extent of the sum to be provided for, will be better as-
certained.

There is a part of the public debt of the United States, which
is a cause of some perplexity to the Treasury. It is not compre-
hended within the existing provision for the foreign debt, which
is confined to loans made abroad ; and it is questionable whether
it is to be regarded as a portion of the domestic debt. It is not
only due to fo?*eigners, but the interest upon it is payable, by ex-
press stipulation, in a foreign country; whence it becomes a
matter of doubt, whether it be at all contemplated by the act
making provision for the debt of the United States. The part
alluded to is that which is due to certain foreign officers, who
served the United States during the late war. In consequence
of a resolution of Congress, directing their interest to be paid to
them in France, the certificates which were issued to them spe-
cify, that, "in pursuance of and compliance with a certain reso-
lution of Congress, of the third day of February, 1784, the said
interest is to be paid, annually, at the house of Mons. le Grand,
banker in Paris." Interest has accordingly been paid to them at
Paris, down to the 31st of December, 1788, by virtue of a special
resolution of Congress, of the 20th of August in that year ; since
which period, no payment has been made.

It has been heretofore suggested, as the opinion of the Secre-
tary, that it would be expedient to cause the whole of this de-
scription of debt to be paid off; among other reasons, because it
bears an interest at six per centum per annum, payable abroad,
and can be discharged with a saving. The other reasons alluded

jEt. 35.] LOANS. 295

to are of a nature both weighty and delicate, and too obvious, it
is presumed, to need a specification. Some recent circumstances
have served to strengthen the inducements to the measure. But
if it should, finally, be deemed unadvisable, it is necessary, at
least, that jjrovision should be made for the interest, which is
now suspended, under the doubt that has been stated, and from
the want of authority to remit it pursuant to the contract.

The amount of this debt, with the arrears of interest to the
end of the year 1791, is $220,646 81.

4. The act making provision for the debt of the United States,
has appropriated the proceeds of the Western lands, as a fund
for the discharge of the public debt. And the act making pro-
vision for the reduction of the public debt, has appropriated all
the surplus of the duties on imports and tonnage, to the end of
the year 1790, to the purpose of purchasing the debt at the mar-
ket price, and has authorized the President to borrow the further
sum of two millions of dollars for the same object.

These measures serve to indicate the intention of the Legisla-
ture, as early and as fast as possible, to provide for the extin-
guishment of the existing debt.

In pursuance of that intention, it appears advisable that a
systematic plan should be begun for the creation and establish-
ment of a sinking fund.

An obvious basis of this establishment, which may be imme-
diately contemplated, is the amount of the interest on as much of
the debt as has been, or shall be, from time to time, purchased,
or paid off, or received in discharge of any debt or demand of
the United States, made payable in public securities, over and
above the interest of any new debt, which may be created, in
order to such purchase or payment.

The purchases of the debt, already made, have left a sum of
interest in the treasury, which will be increased by future pur-
chases ; certain sums payable to the United States, in their own
securities, will, when received, have a similar effect. And there
is ground to calculate on a saving upon the operations, which
are in execution with regard to the foreign debt. The sale of
the Western lands, when provision shall be made for it, may be
expected to produce a material addition to such a fund.

296 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

It is therefore submitted, that it be adopted as a principle,
that all interest which shall have ceased to be payable by any of
the means above specified, shall be set apart and appropriated in
the most firm and inviolable manner as a fund for sinking the
public debt, by purchase or payment ; and that the said fund be
placed under the direction of the officers, named in the second
section of the act making provision for the reduction of the pub-
lic debt, to be by them applied towards the purchase of the said
debt, until the annual produce of the said fund shall amount to
two per cent, of the entire portion of the debt which bears a
present interest of six per centum, and thenceforth to be applied
towards the redemption of that portion of the debt, according to
the right which has been reserved to the Government. It will
deserve the consideration of the Legislature, whether this fund
ought not to be so vested, as to acquire the nature and quality of
a proprietary trust, incapable of being diverted without a violation
of the principles and sanctions of property.

A rapid accumulation of this fund would arise from its own
operation ; but it is not doubted, that the progressive develop-
ment of the resources of the country, and a reduction of the rate
of interest, by the progress of public credit, already exemplified
in a considerable degree, will speedily enable the Government to
make important additions to it in various ways. With due
attention to preserve order and cultivate peace, a strong expec-
tation may be indulged that a reduction of the debt of the coun-
try will keep pace with the reasonable hopes of its citizens.
All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

[Schedules A, B, C, D, State Papers, Finance, vol. i., pp. 149, 150, 151.]

jEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 297

SPIEITS, FOEEIGN AND DOMESTIC.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, March 6, 1792.

Treasury Department, March 5, 1792.

In obedience to the orders of the House of Eepresentatives of the
first and second days of November last, the first directing the
Secretary of the Treasury to report to the House such infor-
mation as he may have obtained, respecting any difficulties
which may have occurred, in the execution of the act " re-
pealing, after the last day of June next, the duties heretofore
laid upon distilled spirits, imported from abroad, and laying
others in their stead, and, also, upon spirits distilled within
the United States, and for appropriating the same," together
with his opinion thereupon ; the second directing him to
report to the House whether any, and what, alterations in
favor of the spirits which shall be distilled from articles of the
growth or produce of the United States, or from foreign arti-
cles, within the same, can, in his opinion, be made in the act
for laying duties upon spirits distilled within the United
States, consistently with its main design, and with the main-
tenance of the public faith ; the said Secretary respectfully
submits the following report :

From the several petitions and memorials which have been
referred to the Secretary, as well as from various representations
which have been made to him, it appears that objections have
arisen in different quarters against the above mentioned act,
which have, in some instances, embarrassed its execution, and
inspired a desire of its being repealed ; in others, have induced
a wish that alterations may be made in some of its provisions.

These objections have reference to a supposed tendency of the
act, first, to contravene the principles of liberty ; secondly, to
injure morals ; thirdly, to oppress by heavy and excessive penal-
ties ; fourthly, to injure industry, and interfere with the business
of distilling.

c 20

298 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

As to the supposed tendency of the act to contravene the
principles of liberty, the discussions of the subject which have
had place in and out of the Legislature, supersede the necessity
of more than a few brief general observations.

It is presumed that a revision of the point cannot, in this
respect, weaken the convictions which originally dictated the law.

There can surely be nothing in the nature of an internal duty
on a consumable commodity, more incompatible with liberty, than
in that of an external duty, on a like commodity. A doctrine
which asserts, that all duties of the former kind (usually denomi-
nated excises) are inconsistent with the genius of a free govern-
ment, is too violent, and too little reconcilable with the necessi-
ties of society, to be true. It would tend to deprive the Govern-
ment of what is, in most countries, a principal source of revenue,
and, by narrowing the distribution of taxes, would serve to
oppress particular kinds of industry. It would throw, in the
first instance, an undue proportion of the public burthen on the
merchant and on the landholder.

This is one of those cases in which names have an improper
influence, and in which prepossessions exclude a due attention to
facts.

Accordingly, the law under consideration is complained of,
though free from the features which have served, in other cases,
to render laws on the same subject exceptionable : and, though
the differences have been pointed out, they have not only been
overlooked, but the very things, which have been studiously
avoided in the formation of the law, are charged upon it, and
that, too, from quarters where its operation would, from circum-
stances, have worn the least appearance of them.

It has been, heretofore, noticed, that the chief circumstances
which, in certain excise laws, have given occasion to the charge
of their being unfriendly to liberty, are not to be found in the
act which is the subject of the report, viz. : first, a summary and
discretionary jurisdiction in the excise officers, contrary to the
course of the common law, and in abridgment of the right of
trial by jury ; and secondly, a general jDower, in the same officers,
to search and inspect, indiscriminately, all the houses and build-

At. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 299

ings of the persons engaged in the business to which the tax
relates.

As to the first particular, there is nothing in the act, even to
give color to a charge of the kind against it, and, accordingly, it
has not been brought. But, as to the second, a very different
power has been mistaken for it, and the act is complained of as
conferring that very power of indiscriminate search and inspec-
tion.

The fact, nevertheless, is otherwise. An officer, under the act
in question, can inspect or search no house or building, or even
apartment of any house or building, which had not been previ-
ously entered and marked by the possessor, as a place used for
distilling or keeping spirits.

And even the power, so qualified, is only applicable to distil-
leries from foreign materials, and in cities, towns, and villages,
from domestic materials ; that is, only in cases in which the law
contemplates that the business is carried on upon such a scale as
effectually to separate the distillery from the dwelling of the distil-
ler. The distilleries scattered over the country, which form
much the greatest part of the whole, are in no degree subject to
discretionary inspection and search.

The true principles of the objection which may be raised to a
general discretionary power of inspection and search, is, that the
domicil or dwelling of a citizen ought to be free from vexatious
inquisition and intrusion.

This principle cannot apply to a case in which it is put in his
own power to separate the place of his business from the place of
his habitation ; and, by designating the former by visible public
marks, to avoid all intermeddling with the latter.

A distillery seldom forms a part of the dwelling of its proprie-
tor, and even where it does, it depends on him to direct and limit
the power of visiting and search, by marking out the particular
apartments which are so employed.

But the requisition upon the distiller to set marks on the
building or apartments which he makes use of in his business, is
one of the topics of complaint against the law. Such marks are
represented as a dishonorable badge; and thus a regulation,

300 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

designed as much to conform with the feelings of the citizen, as
for the security of the revenue, is converted into matter of objec-
tion.

It is not easy to conceive what maxim of liberty is violated,
by requiring persons who carry on particular trades, which are
made contributory to the revenue, to designate, by public marks,
the places in which they are carried on. There can certainly be
nothing more harmless, or less inconvenient, than such a regula-
tion. The thing itself is frequently done by persons of various
callings, for the information of customers ; and why it should
become a hardship or grievance, if required for a public purpose,
can, with difficulty, be imagined.

The supposed tendency of the act to injure morals, seems to
have relation to the oaths, which are, in a variety of cases, re-
quired, and which are liable to the objection, that they give
occasion to perjuries.

The necessity of requiring oaths is, whenever it occurs, mat-
ter of regret. It is certainly desirable to avoid them as often and
as far as possible ; but it is more easy to desire than to find a
substitute. The requiring of them is not peculiar to the act in
question : they are a common appendage of revenue laws, and
are among the usual guards of those laws, as they are of public
and private rights in courts of justice. They constantly occur in
jury trials, to which the citizens of the United States are so much
and so justly attached. The same objection, in different degrees,
lies against them in both cases, yet it is not perceivable how they
can be dispensed with in either.

It is remarkable, that both the kinds of security to the reve-
nue, which are to be found in the act, the oaths of parties, and
the inspection of officers, are objected to. If they are both to be
abandoned, it is not easy to imagine what security there can be
for any species of revenue, which is to be collected from articles
of consumption.

If precautions of this nature are inconsistent with liberty, and
immoral, as there are very few indirect taxes, which can be collected
without them, the consequence must be, that the entire or almost
entire weight of the public burthens must, in the first instance,

Ml. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 301

fall upon fixed and visible property, houses and lands — a conse-
quence which would be found, in experiment, productive of
great injustice and inequality, and ruinous to agriculture.

It has been suggested by some distillers, that both the topics
of complaint which have been mentioned, might be obviated by
a fixed rate of duty, adjusted according to a ratio compounded of
the capacity of each still, and the number and capacities of the
cisterns employed with it ; but this, and every similar method,
are objected to by other distillers, as tending to great inequality,
arising from unequal supplies of the material at different times,
and at different places, from the different methods of distillation
practised by different distillers, and from the different degrees of
activity in the business, which arise from capitals more or less
adequate.

The result of an examination of this point appears to be, that
every such mode, in cases in which the business is carried on
upon an extensive scale, would, necessarily, be attended with
considerable inequalities; and, upon the whole, would be less
satisfactory than the plan which has been adopted.

It is proved by the fullest information, that, in regard to dis-
tillers which are rated in the law, according to the capacity of
each still, the alternative of paying, according to the quality actu-
ally distilled, is received in many parts of the United States as
essential to the equitable operation of the duty. And it is evi-
dent, that such an alternative could not be allowed but upon the
condition of the party rendering upon oath an account of the
quantity of spirits distilled by him, without entirely defeating the
duty.

As to the charge, that the penalties of the act are severe
and oppressive, it is made in such general terms, and so abso-
lutely without the specification of a single particular, that it is
difficult to imagine where it points.

The Secretary, however, has carefully reviewed the provisions
of the act, in this respect, and he is not able to discover any
foundation for the charge.

The penalties it inflicts are in their nature the same with
those which are common in revenue laws, and, in their degree,
comparatively moderate.

302 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

Pecuniary fines, from fifty to five hundred dollars, and forfei-
ture of the article in respect to which there has been a failure to
comply with the law, are the severest penalties inflicted upon
delinquent parties, except in a very few cases : In two, a forfei-
ture of the value of the article is added to that of the article
itself, and in some others, a forfeiture of the ship or vessel,
and of the wagon or other instrument of conveyance, assistant in
a breach of law, is likewise involved.

Penalties like these, for wilful and fraudulent breaches of an
important law, cannot, truly, be deemed either unusual or ex-
cessive. They are less than those which secure the laws of
impost, and as moderate as can promise security to any object of
revenue which is capable of being evaded.

There appears to be but one provision in the law, which
admits of a question whether the penalty prescribed may not
partake of severity. It is that which inflicts the pains of perjury
on any person who shall be convicted of " wilfully taking a false
oath or affirmation in any of the cases in which oaths or affirma-
tions are required by the act."

Precedents in relation to this particular, vary. In many of
them, the penalties are less severe than for perjury, in courts of
justice ; in others, they are the same. The latter are, generally,
of the latest date, and seem to have been the result of experi-
ence.

The United States have, in other cases, pursued the same
principle as in the law in question. And the practice is certain-
ly founded on strong reasons.

1st. The additional security which it gives to the revenue,
cannot be doubted. Many who would risk pecuniary forfeitures
and penalties, would not encounter the more disgraceful punish-
ment annexed to perjury.

2d. There seems to be no solid distinction between one false
oath in violation of law and right and another false oath in
violation of law and right. A distinction in the punishments of
different species of false swearing, is calculated to beget false
opinions concerning the sanctity of an oath ; and by counte-
nancing an impression, that a violation of it is less heinous in the

jEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 303

cases in which it is less punished, it tends to impair in the mind
that scrupulous veneration for the obligation of an oath, which
ought always to prevail, and not only to facilitate a breach of it
in the cases which the laws have marked with less odium, but
to prepare the mind for committing the crime in other cases.

So far is the law under consideration from being chargeable
with particular severity, that there are to be found in it, marks
of more than common attention, to prevent its operating severely
or oppressively.

The 43rd. section of the act contains a special provision (and
one which, it is believed, is not to be found in any law enacted
in this country, prior to the present constitution of the United
States), by which forfeitures and penalties incurred, without an
intention of fraud or wilful negligence, may be mitigated or
remitted.

This mild and equitable provision is an effectual guard
against suffering or inconvenience, in consequence of unde-
signed transgressions of the law.

The 30th section contains a provision in favor of persons,
who, though innocent, may accidentally suffer by seizures of
their property (as in the execution of the revenue laws sometimes
unavoidably happens), which is, perhaps, entirely peculiar to the
law under consideration. Where there has even been a probable
cause of seizure, sufficient to acquit an officer, the jury are to
assess whatever damages may have accrued from any injury to
the article seized, with an allowance for the detention of it, at
the rate of six per centum per annum of the value, which
damages are to be paid out of the public treasury.

There are other provisions of the act which mark the scru-
pulous attention of the Government to protect the parties con-
cerned from inconvenience and injury, and which conspire to
vindicate the law from imputations of severity or oppression.

The supposed tendency of the act to injure industry, and to
interfere with the business of distilling, is endeavored to be
supported by some general and some special reasons, both
having relation to the effect of the duty upon the manufacture.

Those of the first kind affirm generally, that duties on home

304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

manufactures are impolitic, because they tend to discourage
them ; that they are particularly so, when they are laid on
articles manufactured from the produce of the country, because
they have, then, the additional effect of injuring agriculture;
that it is the general policy of nations to protect and promote
their own manufactures, especially those which are wrought out
of domestic materials ; that the law in question interferes with
this policy.

Observations of this kind admit of an easy answer. Duties
on manufactures tend to discourage them, or not, according to
the circumstances under which they are laid ; and are impolitic
or not, according to the same circumstances. When a manufac-
ture is in its infancy, it is impolitic to tax it, because the tax
would be both unproductive, and would add to the difficulties
which naturally impede the first attempts to establish a new
manufacture, so as to endanger its success.

But when a manufacture (as in the case of distilled spirits in
the United States) is arrived at maturity, it is as fit an article of
taxation as any other. No good reason can be assigned why the
consumer of a domestic commodity should not contribute some-
thing to the public revenue, when the consumer of a foreign
commodity contributes to it largely. And, as a general rule, it
is not to be disputed, that duties on articles of consumption are
paid by the consumers.

To the manufacture itself, the duty is no injury, if an equal
duty be laid on the rival foreign article. And when a greater
duty is laid upon the latter than upon the former, as in the
present instance, the difference is a bounty on the domestic
article, and operates as an encouragement of the manufacture.
The manufacturer can afford to sell his fabric the cheaper, in
proportion to that difference, and is so far enabled to undersell
and supplant the dealer in the foreign article.

The principle of the objection would tend to confine all
taxes to imported articles, and would deprive the Government
of resources, which are indispensable to a due provision for the
public safety and welfare, contrary to the plain intention of the
constitution, which gives express power to employ those re-

Mr. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 305

sources when necessary — a power which is found in all govern-
ments, and is essential to their efficiency, and even to their
existence.

Duties on articles of internal production and manufacture,
form, in every country, the principal sources of revenue. Those
on imported articles can only be carried to a certain extent, with-
out defeating their object, by operating either as prohibitions,
or as bounties upon smuggling. They are, moreover, in some
degree, temporary ; for, as the growth of manufactures diminishes
the quantum of duty on imports, the public revenue, ceasing to
arise from that source, must be derived from articles which the
national industry has substituted for those previously imported.
If the Government cannot then resort to internal means for the
additional supplies, which the exigencies of every nation call for,
it will be unable to perform its duty, or even to preserve its
existence. The community must be unprotected, and the social
compact be dissolved.

For the same reasons that a duty ought not to be laid on an
article manufactured out of the country (which is the point most
insisted upon), it ought not to be laid upon the produce itself,
nor consequently upon the land, which is the instrument of that
produce ; because taxes are laid upon land, as the fund out of
which the income of the proprietor is drawn ; or, in other words,
on account of its produce. There ought, therefore, on the principle
of the objection, to be neither taxes on land, nor the produce of
land, nor on articles manufactured from that produce. And if
a nation should be in a condition to supply itself with its own
manufactures, there could then be very little, or no revenue ; of
course, there must be a want of the essential means of national
justice and national security.

Positions like these, however well meant by those who urge
them, refute themselves, because they tend to the dissolution of
government, by rendering it incapable of providing for the
objects for which it is instituted.

However true the allegation, that it is, and ought to be, the
prevailing policy of nations to cherish their own manufactures,
it is equally true, that nations, in general, lay duties for the

306 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. B5.

purpose of revenue, on their own manufactures; and it is
obvious, to a demonstration, that it may be done without injury
to them. The most successful nations in manufactures have
drawn the largest revenues from the most useful of them. It
merits particular attention, that ardent spirits are an article
which has been generally deemed, and made use of, as one of
the fittest objects of revenue, and to an extent, in other coun-
tries, which bears no comparison with what has been done in
the United States.

The special reasons alluded to, are of different kinds :

1. It is said, that the act in question, by laying a smaller
additional duty on foreign spirits than the duty on home-made
spirits, has a tendency to discourage the manufacture of the
latter.

This objection merits consideration, and, as far as it may
appear to have foundation, ought to be obviated.

The point, however, seems not to have been viewed, in all
its respects, in a correct light.

Before the present constitution of the United States began to
operate, the regulations of the different States, respecting dis-
tilled spirits, were very dissimilar. In some of them, duties
were laid on foreign spirits only ; in others, on domestic as well
as foreign. The absolute duty, in the former instances, and the
difference of duty in the latter, was, upon an average, consider-
ably less than the present difference in the duties on foreign and
home-made spirits. If to this be added, the effect of the uniform
operation of the existing duties throughout the United States, it
is easy to infer, that the situation of our own distilleries is, in the
main, much better, as far as they are affected by the laws, than
it was previous to the passing of any act of the United States
upon the subject. They have, therefore, upon the whole, gained
materially, under the system which has been pursued by the
National Government.

The first law of the United States on this head, laid a duty
of no more than eight cents per gallon on those of Jamaica proof.
The second increased the duty on foreign spirits to twelve cents
per gallon, of the lowest proof, and by certain gradations, to

Mr. 35.]

DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 307

fifteen cents per gallon, of Jamaica proof. The last act places
the duty at twenty cents per gallon, of the lowest proof, and ex-
tends it, by the like gradations, to twenty-five cents per gallon, of
Jamaica proof; laying, also, a duty of eleven cents per gallon on
home-made spirits, distilled from foreign materials of the lowest
proof, with a like gradual extension to fifteen cents per gallon of
Jamaica proof; and a duty of nine cents per gallon on home-
made spirits, distilled from domestic materials of the lowest
proof, with the like gradual extension to thirteen cents per
gallon, of Jamaica proof.

If the transition had been immediate from the first to the last
law, it could not have failed to have been considered as a change
in favor of our own distilleries, as far as the rate of. duty is con-
cerned. The mean duty on foreign spirits, by the first law, was
nine cents ; by the last, the mean extra duty on foreign spirits is,
in fact, about eleven cents, as it regards spirits distilled from
foreign materials, and about thirteen as it regards spirits dis-
tilled from domestic materials. In making this computation, it is
to be adverted to, that the four first degrees of proof mentioned
in the law, correspond with the different kinds of spirits usually
imported, while the generality of those made in the United
States, are of the lowest class of proof.

Spirits from domestic materials, derived a double advantage
from the last law ; that is, from the increased rate of duty on
foreign imported spirits, and from a higher rate of duty on
home-made spirits of foreign materials.

But the intervention of the second law has served to produce,
in some places, a different impression of the business than would
have happened without it. By a considerable addition to the
duties on foreign spirits, without laying any thing on those of
home manufacture, it has served to give to the last law the
appearance of taking away a part of the advantages previously
secured to the domestic distilleries. It seems to have been over-
looked, that the second act ought, in reality, to be viewed only as
an intermediate step to the arrangement finally contemplated by
the legislature ; and that, as part of a system, it has, upon the
whole, operated in favor of the national distilleries. The thing

308 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

to be considered is the substantial existing difference in favor of
the home manufacture, as the law now stands.

The advantage, indeed, to the distillation of spirits from the
produce of the country, arising from the difference between the
duties on spirits distilled from foreign, and those distilled from
domestic materials, is exclusively the work of the last act, and is
an advantage which has not been properly appreciated by those
distillers of spirits from home produce, who have complained of
the law as hurtful to their manufacture.

Causes entirely foreign to the law itself, have also assisted in
producing misapprehension. The approximation of the price of
home-made spirits to that of foreign spirits, which has, of late,
taken place, and which is attributed to the operation of the act
in question, is in a great degree owing to the circumstances
which have tended to raise the price of molasses in the "West
India market, and to an extra importation of foreign spirits prior
to the first of July last, to avoid the payment of the additional
duty which then took place.

It is stated in the petition from Salem, that, previous to the last
act, the price of domestic to foreign spirits was as Is. 9c?. to 3s.
4d of the money of Massachusetts, per gallon, and that, since
that act, it has become as 3s. 3d to 4s. 2d.

It is evident that a rise from Is. 9d. to 3s. 3d. per gallon,
which would be equal to twenty cents, is not to be attributed
wholly to a duty of eleven cents. Indeed, if there were a
concurrence of no other cause, the inference would be very
different from that intended to be drawn from the fact, for it
would evince a profit gained to the distiller of more than
eighty per cent, on the duty.

It is, however, meant to be understood, that this approxima-
tion of prices, occasions a greater importation and consumption
of foreign, and a less consumption of domestic spirits than
formerly. How far this may, or may not be the case, the
Secretary is not now able to say with precision, but no facts
have come under his notice officially, which serve to authenticate
the suggestion; and it must be considered as possible, that
representations of this kind are rather the effect of apprehension

JEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 309

than of experience. It would even be not unnatural, that a
considerable enhancement of the prices of the foreign article,
should have led to a greater consumption of the domestic article,
as the cheapest of the two, though dearer itself than formerly.

But, while there is ground to believe, that the suggestions
which have been made on this point, are, in many respects,
inaccurate and misconceived, there are known circumstances,
which seem to render advisable, some greater difference between
the duties on foreign and on home-made spirits. These circum-
stances have been noticed in the report of the Secretary, on the
subject of manufactures, and an alteration has been proposed, by
laying two cents in addition, upon imported spirits of the lowest
proof, with a proportional increase on the higher proofs, and by
deducting one cent from the duty on the lowest proof of home-
made spirits, with a proportional diminution in respect to the
higher proofs.

This alteration would bring the proportion of the duties
nearly to the standard which the petitioner, Hendrick Doyer,
who appears likely to be well informed on the subject, represents
as the proper one, to enable the distillation of Geneva to be
carried on with the same advantage as before the passing of the
act. He observes, that the duty on home-made Geneva, being
nine cents, the additional duty on foreign ought to have been
twelve cents. By the alteration proposed, the proportion will be
as ten to eight, which is little different from that of twelve to nine.

It is worthy of remark, that the same petitioner states, that,
previous to the passing of the act of which he complains, he
" could sell his Geneva sixteen and a quarter per cent, under the
price of Holland Geneva, but that he cannot do it at present,
and in future, lower than fourteen per cent." If, as he also
states, the quality of his Geneva be equal to that of Holland,
and, if his meaning be, as it appears to be, that he can now
afford to sell his Geneva lower, by fourteen per cent., than the
Geneva of Holland, it will follow, that the manufacture of that
article is in a very thriving train, even under the present rate of
duties. For a difference of fourteen per cent, in the price, is
capable of giving a decided preference to the sale of the domestic
article.

310 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

2. It is objected, that the duty, by being laid in the first
instance upon the distiller, instead of the consumer, makes a
larger capital necessary to carry on the business ; and, in this
country, where capitals are not large, puts the national distiller
under disadvantages.

But this inconvenience, as far as it has foundation, in the
state of things, is essentially obviated by the credits given.
Where the duty is payable upon the quantity distilled, a credit
is allowed, which cannot be less than six, and may extend to
nine months. Where the duty is charged on the capacity of
the still, it is payable half yearly. Sufficient time is, therefore,
allowed, to raise the duty from the sale of the article : which
supersedes the necessity of a greater capital. It is well known,
that the article is one usually sold for cash, or at a short credit.
If these observations are not applicable to distilleries in the
interior country, the same may be said, in a great degree, of
the objection itself. The course of the business, in that quarter,
renders a considerable capital less necessary than elsewhere.
The produce of the distiller's own farm, or of the neighboring
farms, brought to be distilled upon shares, or compensations in
the article itself, constitute the chief business of the distilleries in
the remote parts of the country. In the comparatively few in-
stances in which they may be prosecuted as a regular business,
upon a large scale, by force of capital, the observations which
have been made, will substantially apply.

The collection of the duty from the distiller, has, on the other
hand, several advantages. It contributes to equality, by charg-
ing the article, in the first stage of its progress, which diffuses
the duty among all classes alike. It the better secures the col-
lection of the revenue, by confining the responsibility to a smaller
number of persons, and simplifying the process. And it avoids
the necessity of so great a number of officers, as would be re-
quired in a more diffuse system of collection, operating immedi-
ately upon purchasers and consumers. Besides, that the latter
plan would tranfer whatever inconveniences may be incident to
the collection from a smaller to a greater number of persons.
3. It is alleged that the inspection of the officers is injurious

Mr. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 311

to the business of distilling, by laying open its secrets or mys-
teries.

Different distillers, there is no doubt, practise, in certain
respects, different methods in the course of their business, and
have different degrees of skill. But it may well be doubted
whether, in a business so old and so much diffused as that of
the distillation of spirits, there are at this day secrets of con-
sequence to the possessors. There will, at least, be no hazard
in taking it for granted, that none such exist in regard to the dis-
tillation of rum from molasses or sugar, or of the spirits from
grain usually called whisky, or of brandies from the fruits of
this country. The cases in which the allegations are made with
most color, apply to Geneva, and, perhaps, to certain cordials.

It is probable that the course of the business might and would
always be such as, in fact, to involve no inconvenience on this
score. But, as the contrary is affirmed, and as it is desirable to
obviate complaint as far as it can be done consistently with essen-
tial principles and objects, it may not be unadvisable to attempt
a remedy.

It is to be presumed, that, if any secrets exist, they relate to
a primary process, particularly the mixture of the ingredients ;
this, it is supposable, cannot take a greater time each day, than
two hours. If, therefore, the officers of inspection were enjoined
to forbear their visits to the part of the distillery commonly made
use of for such process, during a space not exceeding two hours
in each day, to be notified by the distiller, there is ground to
conclude that it would obviate the objection.

4. The regulations for marking of casks and vessels, as well
as houses and buildings, also furnish matter of complaint.

This complaint, as it regards houses and buildings, has been
already attended to. But there is a light in which it is made,
that has not yet been taken notice of.

It is said, that the requiring the doors of the apartments, as
well as the outer door of each building, to be marked, imposes
unnecessary trouble.

"V\ hen it is considered, how little trouble or expense attends
the execution of this provision, in the first instance, and that the

312 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

marks once set, will endure for a great length of time, the objec
tion to it appears to be without weight.

But the provision, as it relates to the apartments of buildings,
has for its immediate object the convenience of the distillers
themselves. It is calculated to avoid the very evil of an indis-
criminate search of their houses and buildings, by enabling them
to designate the particular apartments which are employed for the
purposes of their business, and to secure all others from inspec-
tion and visitation.

The complaint, as it respects the marking of casks and ves-
sels, has somewhat more foundation. It is represented (and
upon careful inquiry appears to be true) that, through long
established prejudice, home-made spirits of equal quality with
foreign, if known to be home-made, will not command an equal
price. This particularly applies to Geneva.

If the want of a distinction between foreign and home-made
spirits were an occasion of fraud upon consumers, by imposing
a worse for a better commodity, it would be a reason for contin-
uing it ; but as far as such a distinction gives operation to a
mere prejudice, favorable to a foreign, and injurious to a domes-
tic manufacture, it furnishes a reason for abolishing it.

Though time might be expected to remove the prejudice,
the progress of the domestic manufacture, in the interval, might
be materially checked.

It appears, therefore, expedient to remove this ground of
complaint, by authorizing the same marks and certificates both
for foreign and for home-made Geneva.

Perhaps, indeed, it may not be unadvisable to vest some-
where a discretionary power to regulate the forms of certificates
which are to accompany, and the particular marks which are to
be set upon casks and vessels containing spirits, generally, as may
be found convenient in practice.

Another source of objection with regard to the marking of
casks is, that there is a general prohibition against defacing, or
altering the marks, and a penalty upon doing it, which prevents
the using of the same casks more than once, and occasions waste}
loss, and embarrassment.

jEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 313

It is conceived that this prohibition does not extend to the
effacing of old marks, and placing of new ones, by the officers of
the revenue, or in their presence, and by their authority. But
as real inconveniences would attend a contrary construction, and
there is some room for question, it appears desirable that all doubt
should be removed by an explicit provision to enable the officer
to efface old marks and substitute new ones, when casks have
been emptied of their former contents and are wanted for new
use.

5. The requisition to keep an account from day to day of the
quantity of spirits distilled, is represented both as a hardship,
and impossible to be complied with.

But the Secretary is unable to perceive that it can justly be
viewed either in the one or in the other light. The trouble of
setting down, in the evening, the work of the day, in a book
prepared for, and furnished to the party, must be inconsiderable,
and the doing of it would even conduce to accuracy in business.

The idea of impracticability must have arisen from some mis-
conception. It seems to involve a supposition that something is
required different from the truth of the fact. Spirits distilled are
usually distinguished into high wines, proof spirits, and low
wines. It is certainly possible to express, each day, the quantity
of each kind produced, and where one kind is converted into
another, to explain it by brief notes, showing in proper columns
the results in those kinds of spirits which are ultimately prepared
for sale.

A revision is now making of the forms at first transmitted,
and it is not doubted that it will be easy to obviate the objection
of impracticability.

On full reflection, the Secretary is of opinion that the requi-
sition in this respect is a reasonable one, and that it is of impor-
tance to the due collection of the revenue, especially in those
cases where, by the alternative allowed in favor of country dis-
tilleries, the oath of a party is the only evidence of the quantity
produced. It is useful in every such case to give the utmost
possible precision to the object which is to be attested.

6. It is alleged as a hardship, that distilleries are held respon-

c 21

314 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

sible for the duties on spirits which are exported, till certain
things, difficult to be performed, are done, in order to entitle the
exporter to the drawback.

This is a misapprehension. The drawback is at all events to
be paid in six months, which is as early as the duty can become
payable, and frequently earlier than it does become payable.
And the Government relies on the bond of the exporter for
a fulfilment of the conditions upon which the drawback is
allowed.

An explanation to the several collectors, of this point, which
has taken place since the complaint appeared, will have removed
the cause of it.

The same explanation will obviate another objection, founded
on the supposition that the bond of the distiller and that of the
exporter are for a like purpose. The latter is merely to secure
the landing of the goods in a foreign country, and will often con-
tinue depending after every thing relative to duty and draw-
back has been liquidated and finished.

7. It is an article of complaint that no drawback is allowed
in case of shipwreck, when spirits are sent from one port to
another in the United States.

There does not occur any objection to a provision for making
an allowance of that kind, which would tend to alleviate mis-
fortune, and give satisfaction.

8. The necessity of twenty-four hours' notice, in order to the
benefit of drawback on the exportation of spirits, and the prohibi-
tion to remove them from a distillery after sunset, except in the
presence of an officer, are represented as embarrassments to
business.

The length of notice required appears greater than is neces-
sary. It is not perceived that any inconvenience could arise from
reducing the time to six hours.

But it is not conceived to be necessary or expedient to make
an alteration in the last mentioned particular. The prohibition
is of real consequence to the security of the revenue. The
course of business will readily adapt itself to it, and the presence
of an officer in extraordinary cases will afford due accommoda-
tion.

JEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 315

9. It is stated as a hardship, that there is no allowance for
leakage and wastage, in the case of spirits shipped from one State
to another.

The law for the collection of the duties on imports and ton-
nage allows two per cent, for leakage, on spirits imported. A
similar allowance on home-made spirits at the distillery, does not
appear less proper.

10. It is mentioned as a grievance, that distillers are required
to give bond, with surety, for the amount of the duties, and that
the sufficiency of the surety is made to depend on the discretion
of the chief officer of inspection.

The requiring of sureties can be no more a hardship on distil-
lers, than on importing merchants, and every other person to
whom the public afford a credit. It is a natural consequence of
the credit allowed ; and a very reasonable condition of the indul-
gence, which, without this precaution, might be imprudent, and
injurious to the United States.

The party has his option to avoid it by prompt payment of
the duty, and is even entitled to an abatement, which may be
considered as a premium, if he elects to do so.

As to the second point, if sureties are to be given, there must
be some person on the part of the Government to judge of their
sufficiency, otherwise the thing itself would be nugatory; and
the discretion cannot be vested more conveniently for the party,
than in the chief officer of inspection for the survey.

A view has now been taken of most, if not of all, the objec-
tions of a general nature, which have appeared.

Some few, of a local complexion, remain to be attended to.

The representation signed Edward Cook, chairman, as on
behalf of the four most western counties of Pennsylvania, states,
that the distance of that part of the country from a market for its
produce, leads to a necessity of distilling the grain, which is
raised, as a principal dependence of its inhabitants ; which cir-
cumstance, and the scarcity of cash, combine to render the tax in
question unequal, oppressive, and particularly distressing to them.

As to the circumstance of equality, it may safely be affirmed
to be impracticable to devise a tax which shall operate with

316 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J&r. 35.

exact equality upon every part of the community. Local and
other circumstances will inevitably create disparities, more or less
great.

Taxes on consumable articles have, upon the whole, better
pretensions to equality than any other. If some of them fall
more heavily on particular parts of the community, others of
them are chiefly borne by other parts. And the result is an
equalization of the burthen as far as it is attainable. Of this class
of taxes it is not easy to conceive one which can operate with
greater equality than a tax on distilled spirits. There appears
to be no article, as far as the information of the Secretary goes,
which is an object of more equal consumption throughout the
United States.

In particular districts, a greater use of cider may occasion a
smaller consumption of spirits ; but it will not be found, on a
close examination, that it makes a material difference. A greater or
less use of ardent spirits, as far as it exists, seems to depend more
on relative habits of sobriety or intemperance than on any other
cause.

As far as habits of less moderation, in the use of distilled
spirits, should produce inequality any where, it would certainly
not be a reason with the Legislature either to repeal or lessen a
tax, which, by rendering the article dearer, might tend to restrain
too free an indulgence of such habits.

It is certainly not obvious how this tax can operate particu-
larly unequally upon the part of the country in question. As a
general rule it is a true one, that duties on articles of consump-
tion fall on the consumers, by being added to the price of the
commodity. This is illustrated, in the present instance, by facts.
Previous to the law laying a duty on home-made spirits, the
price of whiskey was about thirty -eight cents ; it is now about
fifty-six cents. Other causes may have contributed in some
degree to this effect, but it is evidently to be ascribed chiefly to
the duty.

Unless, therefore, the inhabitants of the counties which have
been mentioned are greater consumers of spirits than those of
other parts of the country, they cannot pay a greater proportion

At. 35.]

DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 317

of the tax. If they are, it is their interest to become less so. It
depends on themselves, by diminishing the consumption, to
restore equality.

The argument, that they are obliged to convert their grain
into spirits, in order to transportation to distant markets, does not
prove the point alleged. The duty on all they send to those
markets will be paid by the purchasers. They will still pay
only upon their own consumption.

As far as an advance is laid upon the duty, or as far as the
difference of duty, between whiskey and other spirits, tends to
favor a greater consumption of the latter, they, as greater manu-
facturers of the article, supposing this fact to be as stated, will be
proportionably benefited.

The duty on home-made spirits from domestic materials, if
paid by the gallon, is nine cents. From the communications
which have been received, since the passing of the act, it appears
that, paying the rate annexed to the capacity of the still, and
using great diligence, the duty may be, in fact, reduced to six
cents per gallon. Let the average be taken at seven and a half
cents, which is probably higher than is really paid.

Generally speaking, then, for every gallon of whiskey which
is consumed, the consumer may be supposed to pay seven and a
half cents ; but for every gallon of spirits, distilled from foreign
materials, the consumer pays, at least, eleven cents, and for every
gallon of foreign spirits, at least twenty cents. The consumer,
therefore, of foreign spirits, pays nearly three times the duty, and
the consumer of homemade spirits, from foreign materials, nearly
fifty per cent, more duty, on the same quantity, than the con-
sumer of spirits from domestic materials, exclusive of the greater
price, in both cases, which is an additional charge upon each of
the two first mentioned classes of consumers.

When it is considered that 28T parts of the whole quantity of
spirits consumed in the United States are foreign, and ¥'T are of
foreign materials, and that the inhabitants of the Atlantic and
midland counties are the principal consumers of these more
highly taxed articles, it cannot be inferred that the tax under
consideration bears particularly hard on the inhabitants of the
Western country.

318 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

This may serve as an exemplification of a general proposition,
of material consequence, namely, that, if the former descriptions
of citizens are able, from situation, to obtain more for their
produce than the latter, they contribute proportionally more to
the revenue. Numerous other examples, in confirmation of this,
might be adduced.

As to the circumstance of scarcity of money, as far as it
can be supposed to have foundation, it is as much an objection
to any other tax as the one in question. The weight of the
tax is not certainly such as to involve any peculiar difficulty.
It is impossible to conceive that nine cents per gallon on dis-
tilled spirits, which is stating it at the highest, can, from the mag-
nitude of the tax, distress any part of the country, which has an
ability to pay taxes at all — enjoying, too, the unexampled advan-
tage of a total exemption from taxes on houses, lands, or stock.

The population of the United States being about four mil-
lions of persons, and the quantity of spirits annually consumed
between ten and eleven millions of gallons, the yearly propor-
tion to each family, if consisting of six persons, which is a full
ratio, would be about sixteen gallons, the duty upon which
would be less than one dollar and a half. The citizen who is
able to maintain a family, and who is the owner or occupier of a
farm, cannot feel any inconvenience from so light a contribution I
and the industrious poor, whether artisans or laborers, are usually
allowed spirits, or an equivalent, in addition to their wages.

The Secretary has no evidence to satisfy his mind that a real
scarcity of money will be found, on experiment, a serious im-
pediment to the payment of the tax any where. In the quarter
where this complaint has particularly prevailed, the expenditures,
for the defence of the frontier, would seem, alone, sufficient to
obviate it. To this, it is answered, that the contractors for the
supply of the army operate with goods, and not with money.
But this still tends to keep at home whatever money finds its
way there. Nor is it a fact, if the information of the Secretary
be not materially erroneous, that the purchases of the contractors
of flour, meat, &c, are wholly with goods. But, if they were, the
Secretary can aver, that more money has, in the course of the

JEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 319

last year, been sent into the Western country, from the treasury,
in specie, and bank bills, which answer the same purpose, for the
pay of the troops and militia, and for quartermaster's supplies,
than the whole amount of the tax in the four western counties
of Pennsylvania and the district of Kentucky, is likely to equal
in four or five years. Similar remittances are likely to be made
in future.

Hence, the Government itself furnishes, and, in all probabil-
ity, will continue to furnish, the means of paying its own de-
mands, with a surplus which will sensibly foster the industry
of the parties concerned, if they avail themselves of it, under
the guidance of a spirit of economy and exertion.

Whether there be no part of the United States in which the
objection of want of money may truly exist, in a degree to ren-
der the payment of the duty seriously distressing to the inhabit-
ants, the Secretary is not able to pronounce. He can only ex-
press his own doubt of the fact, and refer the matter to such in-
formation as the members of any district, so situated, may have
it in their power to offer to the legislative body.

Should the case appear to exist, it would involve the ne-
cessity of a measure, in the abstract, very ineligible, that is, the
receipt of the duty in the article itself.

If an alternative of this sort were to be allowed, it would be
proper to make it the duty of the party paying, to deliver the ar-
ticle at the place in each county, where the office of inspection is
kept, and to regulate the price according to such a standard as
would induce a preference of paying in cash, except from a real
impracticability of obtaining it.

In regard to the petition from the district of Kentucky, after
what has been said with reference to other applications, it can
only be necessary to observe, that the exemption which is
sought by that petition is rendered impracticable by an express
provision of the constitution, which declares that " all duties,
imposts, and excises, shall be uniform throughout the United
States."

In the course of the foregoing examination of the objections
which have been made to the law, some alterations have been

320 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 35.

submitted for the purpose of removing a part of them. The
Secretary will now proceed to submit such further alterations as
appear to him advisable, arising either from the suggestions of
the officers of the revenue or from his own reflections.

1. It appears expedient to alter the distinction respecting
distilleries from domestic materials in cities, towns, and villages,
so as to confine it to one or more stills worked at the same dis-
tillery, the capacity or capacities of which together do not fall
short of four hundred gallons.

The effectual execution of the present provisions respecting
distilleries from home materials in cities, towns, and villages,
would occasion an inconvenient multiplication of officers, and
would, in too great a degree, exhaust the product of the duty in
the expense of collection. It is also probable that the alteration
suggested would also conduce to public satisfaction.

2. The present provisions concerning the entering of stills
are found, by experience, not to be adequate, and, in some in-
stances, not convenient.

It appears advisable that there shall be one office of inspec-
tion for each county, with authority to the supervisor to estab-
lish more than one, if he shall judge it necessary for the accom-
modation of the inhabitants ; and that every distiller, or person
having or keeping a still, shall be required to make entry of the
same at some office of inspection for the county, within a cer-
tain determinate period in each year. It will be proper, also, to
enjoin upon every person, who, residing within the county,
shall procure a still, or who, removing into a county, shall bring
into it a still, within twenty days after such procuring or remo-
val, and before he or she begins to use the still, to make entry at
the office of inspection. Every entry, besides describing the
still, should specify in whose possession it is, and the purpose for
which it is intended, as, whether for sale or for use in distilling ;
and in the case of a removal of the person from another place
into the county, shall specify the place from which the still shall
have been brought. A forfeiture of the still ought, in every
case in which an entry is required, to attend an omission to
enter.

jEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 321

This regulation, by simplifying the business of entering stills,
would render it easier to comprehend and comply with what is
required, would furnish the. officers with a better rule for ascer-
taining delinquencies, and, by avoiding to them a considerable
degree of unnecessary trouble, will facilitate the retaining of
proper characters in the offices of collectors.

3. It is represented that difficulties have, in some instances,
arisen, concerning the persons responsible for the duty. The
apparent not being always the real proprietor, an opportunity
for collusion is afforded ; and without collusion, the uncertainty
is stated as a source of embarrassment.

It also, sometimes, happens, that certain itinerant persons,
without property, complying with the preliminary requisitions of
the law as to entry, &c, erect and work stills for a time, and be-
fore a half yearly period of payment arrives, remove and evade
the duty.

It would tend to remedy these inconveniencies, if possessors
and proprietors of stills were made jointly and severally liable,
and if the duty were made a specific lien on the still itself; if,
also, the proprietor of the land upon which any still may be
worked should be made answerable for the duty, except where
it is worked by a lawful and bona fide tenant of the land of an
estate not less than for a term of one year, or unless such pro-
prietor can make it appear, that the possessor of the still was,
during the whole time, without his privity or connivance, an in-
truder or trespasser on the land ; and if, in the last place, any dis-
tiller, about to remove from the division in which he is, should
be required, previous to such removal, to pay the tax for the
year, deducting any prior payments, or give bond, with approv-
ed surety, conditioned for the payment of the full sum for which
he or she should be legally accountable to the end of the year,
to the collector of the division to which the removal shall be?
rendering proof thereof, under the hand of the said collector,
within six months after the expiration of the year.

As well with a view to the forfeiture of the stills for non-
entry, as to give effect to a specific lien of the duty (if either or
both of these provisions should be deemed eligible), it will be

322 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JSt. 36.

necessary to enjoin it upon the officers of the revenue to identi-
fy) by proper marks, the several stills which shall have been en-
tered with them.

4. The exemptions granted to stills of the capacity of fifty
gallons and under, by the 36th section of the law, appear, from
experience, to require revision.

Tending to produce inequality, as well as to frustrate the
revenue, they have excited complaint. It appears, at least, ad-
visable, that the obligation to enter, as connected with that of
paying duty, should extend to stills of all dimensions, and that it
should be enforced, in every case, by the same penalty.

5. The 28th section of the act makes provision for the seizure
of spirits, unaccompanied with marks and certificates, in the cases
in which they are required ; but as they are required only in
certain cases, and there is no method of distinguishing the spirits,
in respect to which they are necessary, from those in respect to
which they are not necessary, the provision becomes nugatory,
because an attempt to enforce it would be oppressive. Hence,
not only a great security for the due execution of the law is lost,
but seizures very distressing to unoffending individuals must
happen, notwithstanding great precaution to avoid them.

It would be, in the opinion of the Secretary, of great impor-
tance to provide, that all spirits whatsoever, in casks or vessels
of the capacity of twenty gallons and upwards, should be marked
and certified, on pain of seizure and forfeiture, making it the duty
of the officers to furnish the requisite certificates gratis, to distil-
lers and dealers, in all ' cases in which the law shall have been
complied with.

In those cases in which an occasional recurrence to the offi-
cers for certificates might be inconvenient, blanks may be fur-
nished, to be accounted for. And it may be left to the parties
themselves, in the like cases, to mark their own casks or vessels
in some simple manner, to be defined in the law. These cases
may be designated generally. They will principally relate to
dealers, who, in the course of their business, draw off spirits
from larger to smaller casks, and to distillers, who pay according
to the capacities of their stills.

Mt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 323

As a part of a regulation of this sort, it will be necessary to
require, that, within a certain period, sufficiently long to admit
of time to know and comply with the provision, entry shall be
made, by all dealers and distillers, of all spirits in their respec-
tive possessions, which shall not have been previously marked
and certified, according to law, in order that they may be marked
and certified as old stock.

The regulations here proposed, though productive of some
trouble and inconvenience in the outset, will be, afterwards, a
security both to individuals and to the revenue.

6. At present, spirits may not be imported from abroad in
casks of less capacity than fifty gallons. The size of these casks
is smaller than is desirable, so far as the security of the revenue
is concerned, and there has not occurred any good objection to
confining the importation to larger casks, that is to say, to casks
of not less than ninety gallons. Certainly, as far as respects rum
from the West Indies, it may be done without inconvenience,
being conformable to the general course of business. The result
of examination is, that the exception as to this particular, in fa-
vor of gin, may be abolished. Should any alteration on this
subject take place, it ought not to begin to operate till after the
expiration of the year.

7. There is ground to suppose, that the allowance of draw-
back, without any limitation as to quantity, has been abused. It
is submitted that none be made on any less quantity than one
hundred and fifty gallons.

8. There is danger that facility may be given to illicit impor-
tations, by making use of casks which have been once regularly
marked, and the certificates which have been issued with them,
to cover other spirits than those originally contained in such
casks. Appearances which countenance suspicion, on this point,
have been the subjects of representation from several quarters.

The danger may be obviated by prohibiting the importation
in such marked casks, on pain of forfeiture both of the spirits
and of any ship or vessel in which they may be brought. A
prohibition of this sort does not appear liable to any good objec-
tion.

324 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

9. The duty of sixty cents per gallon of the capacity of a still
was founded upon a computation that a still of any given dimen-
sions, worked four months in the year, which is the usual period
of country distillation, would yield a quantity of spirits, which,
at the rate of nine cents per gallon, would correspond with sixty
cents per gallon of the capacity of the still. It will deserve con-
sideration, whether it will not be expedient to give an option to
country distillers, at the annual entry of their stills, to take out
a license for any portion of the year, which they may respec-
tively think fit, and to pay at the rate of twelve and a half cents
per gallon of the capacity, per month, during such period. This
to stand in lieu of the alternative of paying by the gallon distilled;
it would obviate in this case the necessity of accounting upon
oath, and would leave it in the power of each distiller to cover
the precise time he meant to work his still with a license, and to
pay for that time only. A strict prohibition to distil at any other
time than that for which the license was given would be of course
necessary to accompany the regulation as far as regarded any
such licensed distiller.

The only remaining points which have occurred, as proper to
be submitted to the consideration of the Legislature, respect the
officers of the revenue.

It is represented that, in some instances, from the ill humor
of individuals, the officers have experienced much embarrassment,
in respect to the filling of stills with water, to ascertain their ca-
pacity, which, upon examination, is found the most simple and
practicable mode. The proprietors have, in some instances, not
only refused to aid the officers, but have even put out of their
way the means by which the filling might be conveniently ac-
complished.

It would conduce to the easy execution of the law, and to the
very important purpose of retaining and procuring respectable
characters as collectors, if the proprietors and possessors of stills
were required to aid them in the execution of this part of their
duty, or to pay a certain sum as a compensation for the doing
of it.

The limits assigned in the law, respecting compensations, are
found in practice essentially inadequate to the object.

JEt. 35.] DUTIES ON SPIRITS. 325

This is so far the case, that it becomes the duty of the Secre-
tary to state, that greater latitude in this particular, is indispensa-
ble to the effectual execution of the laiv.

In the most productive divisions, the commissions of the col-
lectors afford but a moderate compensation. In the greatest part
of them, the compensation is glaringly disproportioned to the
service ; in many of them, it falls materially short of the expense
of the officer.

It is believed that, in no country whatever, has the collec-
tion of a similar duty been effected within the limit assigned.
Applying in th^ United States to a single article only, and yielding
consequently a less total product than where many articles are
comprehended, the expense of collection must of necessity be
proportionally greater.

It appears to the Secretary, that seven and a half per cent, of
the total product of the duties on distilled spirits, foreign as well
as domestic, and not less, will suffice to defray the compensations
to officers, and other expenses incidental to the collection of the
duty. This is to be understood as supplemental to the present
custom house expenses.

It is unnecessary to urge to the House of Representatives,
how essential it must be to the execution of the law, in a manner
effectual to the purposes of the Government, and satisfactory to
the community, to secure, by competent, though moderate re-
wards, the diligent services of respectable and trustworthy char-
acters.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

326 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES FOE 1792.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, March 17, 1792.

Treasury Department, March 16, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to a resolution of the
House of Representatives, of the 8th instant, directing the
said Secretary to report to the House his opinion of the best
mode of raising the additional supplies, requisite for the en-
suing year, respectfully submits the following report :

The sum which is estimated to be necessary for carrying into
effect the purposes of the act for making further and more effec-
tual provision for the protection of the frontiers of the United
States, beyond the provision made by the act making appropria-
tions for the support of Government, for the year 1792, is
$675,950 08.

The returns which have been received at the treasury, subse-
quent to the Secretary's report of the 23d of January last, among
which are those of some principal ports, afford satisfactory ground
of assurance that the quarter, ending the last of December, was
considerably more productive than it was supposed likely to
prove, authorizing a reliance that the revenues, to the end of the
year 1791, will yield a surplus of $150,000, which may be ap-
plied, in part, of the sum of $675,950 08 cents, above stated to
be necessary.

Provision remains to be made for the residue of this sum,
namely, $525,950 08 cents.

Three expedients occur to the option of the Government, for
providing this sum.

One, to dispose of the interest to which the United States are
entitled in the Bank of the United States. This, at the present
market price of bank stock, would yield a clear gain to the Gov-
ernment, much more than adequate to the sum required.

Another, to borrow the money upon an establishment of

jEt. 35.] ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES. 327

funds, either merely commensurate with the interest to be paid,
or affording a surplus which will discharge the principal by in-
stalments within a short term.

The third is, to raise the amount by taxes.

The first of these three expedients appears to the Secretary
altogether unadvisable.

First. It is his present opinion that it will be found, in vari-
ous respects, permanently the interest of the United States to re-
tain the interest to which they are entitled in the bank. But,

Secondly. If this opinion should not be well founded, it
would be improvident to dispose of it, at the present juncture,
since, upon a comprehensive view of the subject, it can hardly
admit of a doubt, that its future value, at a period not very dis-
tant, will be considerably greater than its present; while the
government will enjoy the benefit of whatever dividends shall
be declared in the interval. And,

Thirdly. Whether it shall be deemed proper to retain or
dispose of this interest, the most useful application of the pro-
ceeds will be as a fund for extinguishing the public debt. A
necessity of applying it to any different object, if it should be
found to exist, would be matter of serious regret.

The second expedient would, in the judgment of the Sec-
retary, be preferable to the first.

For this, the following reason, if there were no other, is pre-
sumed to be conclusive, namely, that the probable increase of
the value of the stock may itself be estimated as a considerable,
if not a sufficient fund for the repayment of the sum which
might be borrowed.

If the measure of a loan should be thought eligible, it is sub-
mitted, as most advisable, to accompany it with a provision
sufficient not only to pay the interest, but to discharge the prin-
cipal within a short period. This will, at least, mitigate the in-
convenience of making an addition to the public debt.

But the result of mature reflection is, in the mind of the
Secretary, a strong conviction that the last of the three expedi-
ents which have been mentioned, is to be preferred to either of
the other two.

328 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

Nothing can more interest the national credit and prosperity,
than a constant and systematic attention to husband all the
means previously possessed, for extinguishing the present debt,
and to avoid, as much as possible, the incurring of any new
debt.

Necessity alone, therefore, can justify the application of any
of the public property, other than the annual revenues, to the cur-
rent service, or to the temporary and casual exigencies of the
country, or the contracting of an additional debt, by loans, to
provide for those exigencies.

Great emergencies, indeed, might exist, in which loans would
be indispensable. But the occasions which will justify them,
must be, truly, of that description.

The present is not of such a nature. The sum to be provided
is not of magnitude enough to furnish the plea of necessity.

Taxes are never welcome to a community. They seldom
fail to excite uneasy sensations, more or less extensive. Hence, a
too strong propensity in the governments of nations to anticipate
and mortgage the resources of posterity, rather than encounter
the inconveniences of an increase of taxes.

But, this policy, when not dictated by very peculiar circum-
stances, is of the worst kind. Its obvious tendency is, by en-
hancing the permanent burthens of the people, to produce lasting
distress, and its natural issue is in national bankruptcy.

It will be happy if the councils of this country, sanctioned by
the voice of an enlightened community, shall be able to pursue
a different course.

Yielding to this impression, the Secretary proceeds to state,
for the consideration of the House, the objects which have oc-
curred to him as most proper to be resorted to, for raising the
requisite sum by taxes.

From the most careful view which he is able to take of all
the circumstances that, at the present juncture, naturally enter
into consideration, he is led to conclude, that the most eligible
mode in which the necessary provision can, at this time, be
made, is, by some additional duties on imported articles.

This conclusion is made with reluctance, for reasons which

Mr. 35.] ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES. 329

were noticed upon a former occasion, and from the reflection that
frequent and unexpected alterations in the rates of duties on the
objects of trade, by inducing uncertainty in mercantile specula-
tions and calculations, are, really, injurious to commerce, and
hurtful to the interests of those who carry it on.

The stability of the duties to be paid by the merchants, is,
in fact, of more consequence to them than their quantum, if
within reasonable bounds.

It were, therefore, much to have been wished, that so early a
resort to new demands, on that class of citizens, could have been
avoided, and, especially, that they could have been deferred until
a general tariff could have been maturely digested, upon princi-
ples which might, with propriety, render it essentially stationary.

But, while there are these motives to regret, there are others
of a consoling tendency, some of which indicate that an aug-
mentation of duties, at the present juncture, may have the effect
of lessening some public evils, and producing some public
benefits.

It is a pleasing fact, if the information of the Secretary be
not very erroneous, that the improved state of the credit of this
country enables our merchants to procure the supplies which
they import from abroad, upon much more cheap and advan-
tageous terms than heretofore; a circumstance which must alle-
viate to them the pressure of somewhat higher rates of duty, and
must contribute, at the same time, to reconcile them to burthens,
which, being connected with an efficacious discharge of the duty
of the Government, are of a nature to give solidity and perma-
nency to the advantages they enjoy under it.

It is certain, also, that a spirit of manufacturing prevails at
this time, in a greater degree than it has done at any antecedent
period ; and, as far as an increase of duties shall tend to second
and aid this spirit, they will serve to promote essentially the in-
dustry, the wealth, the strength, the independence, and the sub-
stantial prosperity of the country.

The returns for a year, ending with the thirtieth of Sep-
tember last, an abstract of which is in preparation to be com-
municated to the Legislature, evince a much increased importa-

c 22
HAMILTON'S WORKS

[Mt. 35.

tion, during that year, greater far than can be referred to a
naturally increasing demand, from the progress of population,
and announce a probability of a more than proportional increase
of consumption ; there being no appearance of an extraordinary
abundance of goods in the market. If, happity, an extension
of the duties shall operate as a restraint upon excessive con-
sumption, it will be a salutary mean of preserving the com-
munity from future embarrassment, public and private. But,
if this should not be the case, it is at least prudent in the
Government to extract from it the resources necessary for cur-
rent exigencies, rather than postpone the burthen to a period
when that very circumstance may cause it to be more grievously
felt.

These different considerations unite with others, which will
suggest themselves, to induce, in the present state of things, a
preference of taxes on imported articles to any other mode of
raising the sum required.

It is, therefore, respectfully submitted, that the existing
duties on the articles hereafter enumerated, be repealed, and
that, in place of them, the following be laid, viz :

WINES.

Madeira, of the quality of London particular, per gallon,

Ditto - - - London market, per
Other Madeira wine, .... per

Sherry, per

St. Lucar, per

Lisbon, per

Oporto, - ... per

Teneriffe and Fayal, ... - per
All other wines, 40 per centum ad valorem.

CENTS

dlon,
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
SPIRITS.

Those distilled wholly or chiefly from grain.
Of the first class of proof, - - - per gallon,

CENTS.
JEt. 35.] ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES. 331

CENTS.

Of the second class of proof, - - - per gallon, 29

Of the third do. ... per d0# 31

Of the fourth do. ... per da 34

Of the fifth do. - per do. 40

Of the sixth do. - - - per do. 50

OTHER DISTILLED SPIRITS.

Of the second class of proof, and under, per gallon, 24

Of the third do. - - - per do. 27

Of the fourth do. - per do. 31

Of the fifth do. - - per do. 37

Of the sixth do. - - - - per do. 45

Beer, ale, and porter, .... per gallon, 8

Steel, per cwt. 100

Nails, per lb. 2

Cocoa, per do. 2

Chocolate, ------ per do. 3

Playing cards, per pack, 25

Shoes and slippers of silk, 20

Shoes and slippers of stained or colored leather (other

than black), for men and women, - - - - 10

Ditto do. for children, 7

All other shoes and slippers (for men and women), clogs

and golo shoes, 10

All other shoes and slippers for children, - - - 7

ARTICLES AD VALOREM.

15 per cent, ad valorem : —
China wares,
Looking-glass, window, and other glass, and all manufac-

turies of glass, black quart bottles excepted.
Muskets.
Pistols.

332 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

Swords, cutlasses, hangers, and other fire and side arms.

Starch.

Hair powder.

Wafers.

Glue.

10 per cent, ad valorem : —

Cast, slit, and rolled iron, and generally all manufactures
of iron, steel, tin, pewter, copper, brass, or of which
either of these metals is the article of chief value (not
being otherwise particularly enumerated).

Cabinet wares.

Leather, tanned and tawed, and all manufactures of lea-
ther, or of which leather is the article of chief value
(not being otherwise particularly enumerated).

Medicinal drugs, except those commonly used in dying.

Hats, caps, and bonnets, of every sort.

Gloves and mittens.

Stockings.

Millinery, ready made.

Artificial flowers, feathers, and other ornaments for
women's head dresses.

Fans.

Dolls, dressed and undressed.

Toys.

Buttons of every kind.

Carpets and carpeting, mats and floor cloths.

Sail cloth.

Sheathing and cartridge paper.

All powders, pastes, balls, balsams, ointments, oils, waters,
washes, tinctures, essences, liquors, or other prepara-
tion or composition, commonly called sweet-scents,
odors, perfumes, or cosmetics.

All dentifrice, powders, tinctures, preparations, or com-
positions, whatsoever, for the teeth or gums.

Printed books, except those specially imported for a col-
lege, academy, or other public or incorporated seminary

Mt. 35.] ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES. 333

of learning, or institution, which shall be wholly ex-
empted from duty.

The foregoing duties to be permanently established, and to
be appropriated, in the first place, to the payment of the interest
of the public debt ; in the second, to such other grants and ap-
propriations, as have been, heretofore, made ; and in the third,
to the purposes of the act for making further and more effectual
provision for the protection of the frontiers of the United States.

An addition of two and a half per cent, ad valorem to be
made to the duty on all goods, heretofore rated at five per
centum ad valorem.

This addition to be temporary, and accordingly to be so
established as that it shall not continue longer than till the present
Indian war shall terminate, and the expenses of carrying it on
shall have been defrayed, which will of course include the reim-
bursement of any sums that may have been borrowed by way
of anticipation of the product of the duties.

It is represented that the present duty on salt operates un-
equally, from the considerable difference in weight, in propor-
tion to quantity, of different kinds of salt ; a bushel weighing
from about 56 to upwards of 80 weight. It would have an
equalizing effect, if the bushel were defined by weight; ami iJ
56 pounds were taken as the standard, a valuable accession to
the revenue would result.

This regulation is, therefore, submitted as a resource upon
the present occasion. The rate of duty to remain as it is.

It will be a reasonable accommodation to trade, if it is made
a part of this arrangement, to extend the credit for the duty on
salt to a longer term. It is an article, which, from the circum-
stances of its importation, frequently lies on hand for a con-
siderable time ; and in relation to the fisheries, is usually sold
upon a credit of several months.

Some remarks may be proper in regard to the proposed
duties. Those on spirits and wines may appear high. They are,
doubtless, considerable. But there are precedents, elsewhere, of
much higher duties on the same articles. And it is certainly, in

334 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

every view, justifiable to make a free use of them for the pur-
pose of revenue.

"Wines, generally speaking, are the luxury of classes of the
community, who can afford to pay a considerable duty upon
them.

It has appeared advisable to adhere to the idea of a specific
duty per quantity, on all the species of wines in most common
consumption in the country, and those most susceptible of pre-
cise designation, as affording greatest certainty to the revenue ;
and to adopt a general ad valorem rate for other kinds, propor-
tioned to the specific duties. This rate is 40 per cent.

The distinction has proceeded from the difficulty of a precise
enumeration of all the other kinds of wine, which are, and may
be, imported, and of such an adjustment of specific rates, as will
bear some reasonable proportion to the value of the article.
The present lowest rate of duty on wines amounts to 200 and
300 per cent, on the value of certain kinds, which may be con-
sidered as equivalent to a prohibition.

While, therefore, ideas of proportion will be better consulted
than heretofore, by the proposed arrangement, it is probable that
the revenue will be benefited, rather than injured, by a reduc-
tion of the duties on low priced wines.

The considerations which render ardent spirits a proper ob-
ject of high duties, have been repeatedly dwelt upon. It may
be added, that it is a familiar, and a just remark, that the pecu-
liarly low price of ardent spirits, in this country, is a great
source of intemperance.

To bring the price of the article more nearly to a level with
the price of it in other markets, by an increase of duty, while it
will contribute to the advancement of the revenue, cannot but
prove, in other respects, a public benefit.

The rates proposed will be still moderate, compared with
examples in other countries ; and the article is of a nature to en-
able the importer, without difficulty, to transfer the duty to the
consumer.

A discrimination is suggested in respect to duties on spirits
distilled from grain. To this, there have been two inducements ;

tEt. 35.] ADDITIONAL SUPPLIES. 33o

one, that the difference in the duty is conformable to the differ-
ence between the cost of the grain spirits usually imported, and
that of West India rum. Another, that it is in a particular
manner the interest of the United States to favor the distillation
of its own grain, in competition with foreign spirits from the
same material. In the second division of spirits, the first class
of proof is dropped, because none of it comes from the West
Indies, and because any other spirits, usually imported, which
may be of so low a proof, are higher priced, even than some of
the higher proofs of West India spirits. The dropping of that
class of proof, therefore, in this case, is favorable to the revenue,
and favorable to equality.

Several of the other specific duties which are proposed, be-
sides the inducements to them as items of revenue, are strongly
recommended by considerations which have been stated in the
report of the Secretary, on the subject of manufactures. The
same report states inducements to a 15 per cent, duty on some
of the articles which are mentioned, as proper to be comprised
under that rate.

With regard to china and glass, there are two weighty rea
sons . for a comparatively high duty upon them. The use of
them is very limited, except by the wealthier classes ; and both
their bulk, and liability to damage in transportation, are great
securities against evasions of the revenue. It will, however,
merit consideration, whether, for the accommodation of impor-
ters, a longer term of credit ought not to be allowed on these
articles.

A duty of two cents per pound on cocoa is less, in propor-
tion to the value, than the present duty on coffee. As an ex-
tensive article of consumption, it is a productive one of revenue.

The duty on playing cards can give rise to no question
except as to the practicability of a safe collection. In order to
this, it will be proper to superadd certain precautions, which
will readily occur in regulating the details of a bill for the pur-
pose. A similar attention will be requisite in regard to the du-
ties on wines. The employment of marks and certificates may
advantageously be extended to this article.

336 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

The rate of 10 per centum ad valorem, it is hoped, will not
be deemed immoderate in relation to the articles to which it is
proposed to apply it. It is difficult to assign rules for what
ought to be considered as a just standard. But, after the best
consideration which the Secretary has been able to bestow upon
it, he cannot discover that any real inconvenience is likely,
permanently, to result from the extension of that rate to the
cases proposed.

The addition of 2\ per cent, to the duty on the mass of ar-
ticles now rated at five, will constitute an important, though not
an excessive augmentation. Nevertheless, it is proposed that it
shall be only temporary ; and there is reasonable ground of ex-
pectation, that the cause for having recourse to it will not be of
very long continuance.

It will not have escaped the observation of the House, that
the duties which were suggested in the Secretary's report on
that subject, as encouragements to manufactures, are, for the
most part, included among the objects of this report.

It may tend to avoid future embarrassment, if such aboli-
tions and drawbacks as shall be deemed expedient, with a view
to promoting manufactures, shall accompany the establishment
and appropriation of whatever further duties may be laid, for
the object in contemplation. And it may be found convenient
to qualify the appropriation of the surplus which is to be applied
to that object, so as to let in such other appropriations, during
the session, as occurrences may suggest.

An estimate of the additional revenue which may be expect-
ed from the proposed duties is subjoined.

It will occur to the House, that the credit allowed for the du-
ties will require an anticipation of their product by a temporary
loan, for which provision in the law will be requisite.
All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

Mr. 35.1 REMISSION OF DUTIES. 337

KEMISSION OF DUTIES.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, April 20, 1792.

Treasury Department, April 19, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury, to whom was referred the me-
morial of Eliphalet Ladd, respectfully makes the following
report thereupon :

It has been made a question, whether under the laws of the
United States, as they now stand, duties are payable on goods
imported in vessels which have suffered shipwreck in the act of
transportation. A suit, in which this question is involved, is
depending in one of the courts of the United States.

But the terms of the law have rendered it the duty of the
officers of the customs to advance the claim, which has been
done on all the occasions that have hitherto occurred.

The casualty of shipwreck is so affecting a calamity, and is
usually attended with such considerable loss to the concerned,
that the exacting from the sufferers the public dues on the arti-
cles which escape, is apt to be regarded as partaking of severity
and oppression.

The provision for the case of damaged goods is not, always,
a sufficient remedy. It may happen that the goods saved are
not damaged, though a large proportion may have been entirely
lost.

It would seem, upon the whole, expedient, either entirely to
remit the duties in every case of shipwreck, or to vest some-
where a power, either to remit, or abate, according to the cir-
cumstances of each case.

The last would best consist with a due apportionment of the
degree of relief to the degree of suffering. From the rareness
of the casualty, the loss to the revenue, from either arrange-
ment, could not be very material.

338 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

The case stated in. the petition appears to be a strong one for
relief.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

SPIRITS, FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC.

Communicated to Congress, Nov. 22, 1792.

Arrangement made by the President of the United States,
pursuant to an Act of Congress, passed the third day of March,
1791, entitled, " An Act repealing," kc. Title supra, p. 171.

PUBLIC DEBT.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, December 3. 1792.

Treasury Department, November 30. 1792.

In obedience to two resolutions of the House of Representatives,
one of the 21st instant, directing the Secretary of the Trea-
sury to report a plan for the redemption of so much of the
Public Debt as, by the act, entitled " An act making pro-
vision for the debt of the United States," the United States
have reserved the right to redeem ; the other of the 22d in-
stant, directing him to report the plan of a provision for the
reimbursement of a loan, made of the Bank of the United
States, pursuant to the 11th section of the act, entitled "An
act to incorporate the subscribers to the Bank of the United
States ;" the said Secretary respectfully submits the following
report :

The expediency of taking measures for the regular redemp-

^Et. 35.] PUBLIC DEBT. 339

tion of the public debt, according to the right which has been
reserved to the Government, being wisely predetermined, by the
resolution of the House of Eepresentatives, referring the subject
to the Secretary, nothing remains for him, but to endeavor to
select and submit the most eligible means of providing for the
execution of that important object.

With this view, the first inquiry which naturally presents
itself is, whether the existing revenues are, or are not, adequate
to the purpose ?

The estimates which accompany the report of the Secretary,
of the 14th instant, will show that, during the continuance of the
present Indian war, the appropriations for interest, and the de-
mands for the current service, are likely to exhaust the product
of the existing revenues ; though they afford a valuable surplus
beyond the permanent objects of expenditure, which, it is hoped,
ma}r, ere long, be advantageously applied to accelerate the ex-
tinguishment of the debt.

In the mean time, however, and until the restoration of
peace, the employment of that resource, in this way, must, of
necessity, be suspended, and either the business of redemption
must be deferred, or recourse must be had to other expedients.

But, did no such temporary necessity, for resorting to other
expedients, exist, the doing of it would still be recommended by
weighty considerations. It would appear, in the abstract, advi-
sable to leave the surplus of the present revenues free, to be
applied to such casual exigencies as may, from time to time,
occur ; to occasional purchases of the debt, when not exhausted
by such exigencies ; to the payment of interest on any balances
which may be found due to particular States, upon the general
settlement of accounts ; and finally, to the payment of interest
on the deferred part of the debt, when the period for such pay-
ment arrives. There is a reasonable prospect that, if not diverted,
it will be found adequate to the two last important purposes.

Kelinquishing, then, the idea of an immediate application of
the present revenues to the object in view, it remains to examine
what other modes are in the option of the Legislature.

Loans, from time to time, equal to the sums annually re-

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

deemable, and bottomed on the same revenues, which are now
appropriated to pay the interest upon those sums, offer them-
selves as one expedient, which may be employed with a degree
of advantage. As there is a probability of borrowing at a lower
rate of interest, a material saving would result ; and even this
resource, if none better could be devised, ought not to be ne-
glected.

But it is obvious that, to rely upon this resource alone, would
be to do little towards the final exoneration of the nation. To
stop at that point would, consequently, be neither provident nor
satisfactory. The interests as well as the expectations of the
Union require something more effectual.

The establishment of additional revenues is the remaining
resource. This, if the business is to be undertaken in earn-
est, is unavoidabl e. And a full confidence may reasonably
be entertained, that the community will see, with satisfaction,
the employment of those means which alone can be effectual, for
accomplishing an end, in itself so important, and so much an
object of general desire. It cannot fail to be universally felt,
that, if the end is to be attained, the necessary means must be
employed.

It can only be expected that care be taken to choose sach as
are liable to fewest objections, and that, in the modifications of
the business in other respects, due regard be had to the present
and progressive circumstances of the country.

Assuming it as the basis of a plan of redemption, that addi-
tional revenues are to be provided, the further inquiry divides
itself into the following branches :

1. Shall a revenue be immediately constituted, equal to the
full sum which may at present be redeemed, according to the
terms of the contract?

2. Shall a revenue be constituted, from year to year, equal
only to the interest of the sum to be redeemed in each year,
coupling with this operation an annual loan, commensurate with
such sum ? Or,

3. Shall a revenue be constituted each year, so much exceed-
ing the interest of the sum to be redeemed, as to be sufficient,

JEr. 35.] PUBLIC DEBT. 341

within a short definite term of time, to discharge the principal
itself; coupling with this operation also, an animal loan, equal
to the sum to be annually redeemed, and appropriating the
revenue created to its discharge, within the term which shall
have been predetermined?

The first plan, besides being completely effectual, would be
eventually most economical ; but considering to what a magni-
tude the revenues of the United States have grown in a short
period, it is not easy to pronounce how far the faculty of paying
might not be strained by any sudden considerable augmentation,
wheresoever immediately placed ; while the rapid progress of
the country in population and resource seems to afford a moral
certainty, that the necessary augmentation may be made with con-
venience, by successive steps, within a moderate term of time,
and invites to temporary and partial suspensions, as capable of
conciliating the reasonable accommodation of the community with
the vigorous prosecution of the main design. For these, and for
other reasons which will readily occur, the course of providing
immediately the entire sum to be redeemed, is conceived not to
be the most eligible.

The second plan, though much more efficacious than that of
annual loans, bottomed on the revenues now appropriated for
the payment of interest on the sums to be redeemed, does not
appear to be sufficiently efficacious. The schedule A will show
the effect of it to the 1st of January, 1802, when the deferred
debt Avill become redeemable in the proportions stipulated. Sup-
posing the investment of the interest which is, each year, liber-
ated, together with that which has been, and will be released by
purchases, pursuant to provisions heretofore made, in the pur-
chase of 6 per cent, stock; a sum of principal, equal to 2,043,837
dollars and 7 cents would be sunk, and a clear annuity, equal to
459,212 dollars and 82 cents would be created, towards further
redemptions; but the fund then necessary for the future progres-
sive redemption of the debt, according to the right reserved,
would be 1,126,616 dollars and 44 cents, exceeding by 667,403
dollars and 62 cents, the amount of the redeeming fund. Some-
thing more effectual than this is certainly desirable, and appears
to be practicable.

342 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 35.

The last of the three plans best accords with the most accu-
rate view which the Secretary has been able to take of the pub-
lic interest.

In its application, it is of material consequence to endeavor
to accomplish these two points : 1st. The complete discharge of
the sums annually redeemable, within the period prefixed, and
the reimbursement, within the same period, of all auxiliary
loans, which may have been made for that purpose. 2ndly. The
constituting, by the expiration of that period, a clear annual
fund, competent to the future redemption of the debt, to the ex-
tent of the right reserved.

The period to which it is conceived the plan ought to refer,
is the first day of January, 1802 ; because then the first payment,
on account of the principal of the deferred debt, may rightfully
be made.

In conformity to these ideas, the following plan is most re-
spectfully submitted; premising, that the sum redeemable for
the first year, of the six per cent, stock, bearing a present
interest, is computed at 550,000 dollars.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the present session,
equal to 103,199 dollars and six cents, to begin to accrue from
the first of January, 1793. Let the sum of 550,000 dollars be
borrowed upon the credit of this annuity, reimbursable within
five years, that is, by the first of January, 1799. The sum
borrowed to be applied, on the first of January, 1794, to the
first payment on account of the principal of the debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the first of January, 1799, and will, thenceforth, be
free for any further application.

The sum redeemable the second year, that is, on the first of
January, 1795, is computed at 583,000 dollars.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the second session
after the present, equal to 109,391 dollars and 60 cents, to begin
to accrue from the first of January, 1794. Let the sum of
583,000 dollars be borrowed upon the credit of this annuity,
reimbursable within five years, that is, by first of January,
1800. The sum borrowed to be applied, on the first of January,

jEt. 35.] PUBLIC DEBT. 343

1795, to the second payment on account of the principal of the
debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the first of January, 1800, and will be, thenceforth,
free for any further application.

The sum redeemable the third year, that is, on the first of
January, 1796, is computed at 617,980 dollars.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the third session
after the present, equal to 115,955 dollars and 17 cents, to begin
to accrue from the first of January, 1795. Let the sum of
617,980 dollars be borrowed upon the credit of this annuity,
reimbursable within five years, that is, by the first of January,
1801. The sum borrowed to be applied, on the first of January,

1796, to the third payment on account of the principal of the
debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the first of January, 1801.

The sum redeemable the fourth year, that is, on the first of
January, 1797, is computed at 655,058 dollars and 80 cents.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the fourth session
after the present, equal to 122,912 dollars and 48 cents, to begin
to accrue from the first of January, 1796. Let the sum of
655,058 dollars and 80 cents be borrowed upon the credit of this
annuity, reimbursable within five years, that is, by the first of
January, 1802. The sum borrowed to be applied on the first of
January, 1797, to the fourth payment on account of the principal
of the debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the first of January, 1802.

The sum redeemable the fifth year, that is, on the first of
January, 1798, is computed at 694,362 dollars and 33 cents.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the fifth session
after the present, equal to 152,743 dollars and 12 cents, to begin
to accrue from the first of January, 1797. Let the sum of
694,362 dollars and 33 cents be borrowed upon the credit of this
annuity, reimbursable within four years, that is, by the first of
January, 1802. The sum borrowed to be applied on the first of

344 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

January, 1798, to the fifth payment on account of the principal
of the debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the first of January, 1802.

The sum redeemable the sixth year, that is, on the first of
January, 1799, is computed at 786,024 dollars and 7 cents.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the sixth session
after the present, equal to 197,680 dollars and 20 cents, to begin
to accrue from the first of January, 1798. Let the sum of
736,024 dollars and 7 cents be borrowed upon the credit of this
annuity, reimbursable within three years, that is, by the first of
January, 1802. The sum borrowed to be applied, on the first of
January, 1799, to the sixth payment on account of the principal
of the debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the 1st of January, 1802.

The sum redeemable the seventh year, that is, on the 1st of
January, 1800, is computed at 780,185 dollars and 52 cents.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the seventh session
after the present, equal to 272,848 dollars and 88 cents, to begin
to accrue from the 1st of January, 1799. Let the sum of 780,185
dollars and 52 cents be borrowed upon the credit of this annuity,
reimbursable within two years, that is, by the 1st of January,
1802. The sum borrowed to be applied, on the first of January,
1800, to the seventh payment on account of the principal of the
debt.

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, by the 1st of January, 1802.

The sum redeemable the eighth year, that is, on the 1st of
January, 1801, is computed at 826,996 dollars and 66 cents.

Let an annual fund be constituted, during the eighth session
after the present, equal to 423,588 dollars and 54 cents, to begin
to accrue from the 1st of January, 1800. Let the sum of 826,996
dollars and 65 cents borrowed upon the credit of this annuity,
reimbursable within one year, that is, on the 1st of January, 1802.
The sum borrowed to be applied, on the 1st of January, 1801, to
the eighth payment on account of the principal of the debt.

^t. 35.] PUBEIC DEBT. 345

The proposed annuity will reimburse the sum borrowed, with
interest, on the 1st of January, 1802.

The sum redeemable the ninth year, that is, on the 1st of
January, 1802, is computed at 1,126,616 dollars and 44 cents.

The then existing means for the discharge of this sum, arising
from the operation of the plan, will be :

1st. The amount of the annuity constituted the third year,
which will have been liberated by reimbursement of the third
loan. 2d. The arrears of interest not previously appropriated,
and which are computed at 200,000 dollars.

There will consequently be a deficiency this year, of 810,661
dollars and 27 cents, which will require to be supplied by a
temporary loan, to be reimbursed out of the surplus of the fund,
which, on the 1st of January, 1802, will exist for future re-
demptions, and which surplus will be sufficient to reimburse this
temporary loan, in about thirteen years and a half.

It may be proper to remark, that this deficiency upon one
year is suffered to exist, to avoid an unnecessary augmentation
of revenue, materially beyond the sum permanently requisite.
No inconvenience ensues, because this temporary deficiency is
made up by the surplus of the permanent fund, within the period
mentioned. And that fund, from the 1st of January, 1802, is
adequate to all future redemptions, in the full proportion per-
mitted by the contract.

The table in the schedule B, herewith submitted, will show,
in one view, the principles and operation of this plan.

The schedule C will exhibit the means of constituting the
several annuities proposed to be established. From it will be
seen, that the proposed annuities are to be composed, partly of
taxes, to* be successively laid, at the respective periods of creat-
ing them, partly of the surplus dividend to be expected on the
stock belonging to the Government, in the Bank of the United
States, beyond the interest to be paid on account of it, and,
partly, of the funds heretofore pledged for the payment of in-
terest, which will have been liberated upon so much of the debt
as will have been extinguished.

c 23

346 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

The respective amounts of the taxes to be severally laid, will
be,

In the first year, .... $43,199 06

In the second year, .... 109,391 60

In the third year, .... 115,955 17

In the fourth year, - - - 102,912 48

In the fifth year, - - - 102,743 12

In the sixth year, .... 107,680 20

In the seventh year, .... 109,649 32

Making together - $691,530 95

The sum which will have been redeemed prior to the 1st day
of January, 1802, will be $5,443,607 37. The sum redeemable
on the 1st of January, 1802, will be $1,126,616 44 ; and the
fund which will, thenceforth, exist for the purpose of future
redemption (as is particularly shown by the schedule D), will
be $1,210,744 34, exceeding the sum strictly necessary by
$84,127 90 — a fund which, including the interest, from year to
year liberated, will, as already intimated, be completely adequate
to the final redemption of the whole amount of the six per cent,
stock (as well the deferred as that bearing a present interest),
according to the right which has been reserved for that purpose.

In the mean time, a further impression will be made upon
the debt, by the investment of the residue of the funds hereto-
fore established, in the purchase of it; and it is hoped, that the
restoration of peace with the Indians will enable the application
of the surplus of the existing revenues, together with the pro-
ceeds of the ceded lands in our Western territory, to the same
object. These, whenever they can be brought into action, will
be important aids, materially accelerating the ultimate re-
demption of the entire debt. The employment of these re-
sources, when it can be done, by increasing the interest fund,
will, proportionably, lessen the necessity of using the resource
of taxation, for creating the proposed annuities — if the Govern-
ment shall judge it advisable to avail itself of the substitute
which may accrue from that circumstance.

Mt. 35.] PUBLIC DEBT. 347

Having now given a general view of the plan which has
appeared, upon the whole, the most eligible, it is necessary,
in the next place, to present to the consideration of the House
the requisite funds for commencing the execution of it. These
will embrace a provision for the first annuity only, that alone
requiring, by the plan, immediate provision. With regard to
a provision for the subsequent annuities, which is proposed to
be successive, the Secretary will content himself with this gen-
eral observation, that he discerns no intrinsic difficulty in making
provision for them, as fast as shall be necessary, with due con-
venience to the people, and consistently with the idea of abstain-
ing from taxing lands and buildings (with the stock and imple-
ments of farms), reserving them as a resource for those great
emergencies which call for a full exertion of all the contributive
faculties of a country.

The following means, for constituting the first annuity, are
respectfully submitted, viz :

Annual surplus of the dividend on the stock of Government
in the Bank of the United States, beyond the interest to be paid
out of the said dividend, estimated at $60,000.

Tax on horses, kept or used for the purpose of riding, or of
drawing any coach, chariot, phaeton, chaise, chair, sulky, or
other carriage for conveyance of persons, excepting and exempting
all horses which are usually and chiefly employed for the purposes
of husbandry, or in drawing wagons, wains, drays, carts, or other
carriages, for the transportation of produce, goods, merchandise,
and commodities, or in carrying burthens in the course of the
trade or occupation of the persons to whom they respectively
belong, and the horses of persons in the military service of the
United States, viz :

For every horse, not above excepted and exempted, at the
rate of one dollar per annum where only one is used or kept by
the same person, with an addition of fifty cents per annum per
horse, where more than one, and not more than two, horses are
kept or used by the same person ; with an addition of one dollar per
annum per horse, where more than two, and not more than four,
are kept or used by the same person ; and, with an addition of

348 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

one dollar and a half dollar per horse, per annum, where more
than four are kept or used by the same person. Provided, That
this addition shall not be made, in respect to horses usually
employed in public stages, for the conveyance of passengers.

This progressive increase of rates on the higher numbers, has
reference to the presumption of greater wealth, which arises from
the possession of such higher numbers.

The product of this tax will, probably, be about equal to the
residue of the proposed annuity, which is $43,199 06. How
near the truth this estimate may prove, experiment alone can,
in so untried a case, decide. An aid to this fund may be derived
from the surplus dividend on the bank stock, for the half year
ending the last of December next, which, it is presumed, will be
not less than $20,000. Should a deficiency appear, upon trial,
it can be supplied by a future provision.

Proper regulations for the collection of this tax will, it is
believed, be found not difficult, if the tax itself shall be deemed
eligible. Its simplicity has been a considerable recommendation
of it, Qualified as it is, it is not likely to fall on any but such
who can afford to pay it. The exemption from the tax, in
regard to horses which are appropriated to the purposes of
husbandry, or of any trade or occupation, or to the transportation
of commodities, seems to obviate all reasonable objection.

If, however, there should appear to the Legislature, reasons
for preferring a tax on carriages for pleasure, which, it may be
observed, will operate on nearly the same description of persons,
the sum required may, it is believed, be produced from the
following arrangements of rates, viz: Upon every coach, the
annual sum of four dollars. Upon every chariot, the annual sum
of three dollars. Upon every other carriage for the conveyance
of persons, having four wheels, the annual sum of two dollars ;
and, upon every chair, sulky, or other carriage for the conveyance
of persons, having less than four wheels, the annual sum of one
dollar.

The collection of this tax will be as simple and easy, and
perhaps more certain, than that which has been primarily sub-
mitted.

JEt. 35.] PUBLIC DEBT. 349

With regard to the second object referred to the Secretary,
namely, the plan of a provision for the reimbursement of the
loan made of the Bank of the United States, pursuant to the
11th section of the act by which it is incorporated, the following
is respectfully submitted, to wit : That power be given, by law,
to borrow the sum due, to be applied to that reimbursement ;
and that so much of the dividend on the stock of the Govern-
ment, in the bank, as may be necessary, be appropriated for
paying the interest of the sum to be borrowed.

From this operation it is obvious that a saving to the Govern-
ment will result, equal to the difference between the interest
which will be payable on the new loan, and that which is pay-
able on the sum now due to the bank. If the proposed loan can
be effected at the rate of those last made in Holland, the net
saving to the Government may be computed at the annual sum
of 35,000 dollars; which saving, whatever it may be, is con-
templated as part of the means for constituting the proposed
annuities.

The benefit of this arrangement will be accelerated, if pro-
vision be made for "the application of the proceeds of any loans,
heretofore obtained, to the payment suggested on the condition
of replacing the sums, which may be so applied, out of the
proceeds of the loan or loans which shall be made pursuant to
the power above proposed to be given.

It will also conduce to the general end in view, if the Legisla-
ture shall think proper to authorize the investment of the funds,
destined for purchases of the debt, in purchases of six per cent,
stock, at the market price, though above par. The comparative
prices of the several kinds of stock have been, and frequently
may be, such as to render it more profitable to make invest-
ments in the six per cents, than in any other species of stock.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

350 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 4, 1793.

In the House of Representatives of the United States,

Monday, December 24, 1792.

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be directed to
lay before this House, an account of the application of the
moneys borrowed, in Antwerp and Amsterdam, for the United
States, within the present year.

Thursday, December 27.

Resolved, That the President of the United States be re-
quested to cause this House to be furnished with a particular
account of the several sums, borrowed under his authority, by
the United States; the terms on which each loan has been
obtained ; the applications to which any of the moneys have
been made, agreeable to appropriations ; and the balances,
if any, which remain unapplied. In this statement, it is re-
quested that it may be specified at what times interest com-
menced on the several sums obtained, and at what times it was
stopped, by the several payments made.

Treasury Department, January 3, 1793.

Sm:

In obedience to an order of the President of the United
States, I have the honor to transmit sundry statements, Nos. I,
II, III, IV, respecting the several foreign loans, which have
been made under his authority, by the United States, showing,
in conformity to the resolution of the House of Kepresentatives
of the 27th of December, as far as the materials in the possession
of the treasury will now permit, the several particulars specified

Mt. 35.] LOANS. 351

in that resolution; these statements will equally fulfil the object
of the resolution of the House of the 24th of December.
With perfect respect,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your most obedient and humble servant,
Alexander Hamilton.
The Honorable the Speaker of the

House of Representatives.

No. I. — Statement of the several sums which have been borrowed for the use of
the United States, by virtue of the Acts of the 4th and 12th of August, 1790, show-
ing the particular application of the moneys to the 1st of January, 1793, inclusively,
and the balance remaining unapplied.

No. II.— Statement showing the particular periods when the bonds were distri-
buted, and the moneys received upon the different loans.

No. III.— A statement of the bills which have been drawn by the Treasurer of
the United States, upon the Commissioners in Amsterdam, showing the application
of the moneys arising from the sales of those bills, and the balance which remains
unapplied.

No. IV.— A particular statement of the bills drawn by the Treasurer of the
United States, showing the different periods when drawn and paid in Amsterdam
and the balance remaining unpaid on the 6th of September, 1792.— [Slate Papers—
Finance, Vol. I., p. 181.]

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 11, 1793.

Treasury Department, January 10th, 1793.

Sir:

The resolution of the House of Representatives of the 27th
of December last having been considered as contemplating for-
eign loans only, the statements rendered to the House, on the
3d instant, were confined merely to those objects.

But, lest a greater latitude should have been intended by
that resolution, I have the honor to transmit, herewith, a sup-
plementary statement, No. V., which contains the several sums

352 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

that have been borrowed in the United States, under the autho-
rity of the President ; and to be,

With perfect respect, Sir,

Yonr most obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable Speaker of the

House of Eepresentatives of the United States.

No. V.— A statement of the moneys which have been borrowed in the United
States, by the Government, and applied pursuant to the several acts of Congress.
— [State Papers— Ibid., Vol. I., p. 185.]

BANK DEPOSITS, SUEPLUS EEVENUE, AND LOANS.

Communicated to the Senate, January 18, 1793.
The Senate passed the following order, January 15, 1793 :

Ordered, That the Secretary of the Treasury lay before the
Senate the account of the United States with the Bank of the
United States, specifying the precise sums, with the dates of the
debits and credits, from the institution of the bank to the day the
return is made.

That the Secretary of the Treasury also lay before the Senate,
an account of the surplus of revenue appropriated to the pur-
chase of the public debt, to the same period, specifying the sums
and dates.

That he lay before the Senate, a statement of the money bor-
rowed by virtue of the law, passed August the 4th, 1790, with
the appropriation of the amount, and the precise dates.

That he lay before the Senate the amount and application of
the money borrowed, by virtue of the law of August the 12th,
1790.

And that he also lay before the Senate, an account exhibiting

Mt. 36.] BANK DEPOSITS, ETC. 353

the probable surplus, and unappropriated revenue of the year
1792, stating, as far as possible, the dates and the sums.

Treasury Department, January 16, 1793.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit, herewith, pursuant to the order
of the Senate, of yesterday, the following documents, viz:

Books, Nos. 1 and 2,* containing the current cash account,
between the United States and the Bank of the United States,
from the commencement of the operations of that institution,
until this day.

Files, A, B, C, D*

A. Containing a series of accounts, beginning the 16th of
June, 1792, and ending the 5th of January, 1793 ; showing the
cash account of the United States with the office of discount and
deposit of the Bank of the United States at Boston.

B. Containing a series of accounts, beginning the 23d of
Ma}r, 1792, and ending the 5th of January, 1793 ; showing the
cash account of the United States with the office of discount
and deposit of the Bank of the United States at New- York.

C. Containing a series of accounts, beginning the 9th of
August, 1792, and ending the 5th of January, 1793 ; showing-
similar accounts with the office of discount and deposit at Balti-
more.

D. Containing a series of accounts, beginning the 9th of
June, and ending the 22d of December, 1792 ; showing similar
cash accounts with the office of discount and deposit at Charles-
ton.

Statement E, being an abstract of the balances remaining in
the several offices of discount and deposit, at the respective
periods of the last returns.

Statement AB and Nos. 1, 2, 3, being accounts of the sales

* " Books Nos. 1 and 2," and " files A, B, C, D," were returned, and are not now
to be'found.

354 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 36.

of bills on Amsterdam, by the Bank of the United States, and
the several offices of discount and deposit.

These documents fulfil the first object of the order above
mentioned.

Statement F, showing the surplus of revenue appropriated
to the purchase of the public debt. This surplus arose at the
end of the year 1790, and was appropriated by an act of the
12th of August, 1790.

This fulfils the second object of the order, as I understand
its meaning.

Statements (printed) Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4,

-::-

These have been, heretofore, presented to the House of Rep-
resentatives, and show, with as much detail and accuracy as is
now in the power of the treasury, the different loans which
have been made, pursuant to the acts of the 4th and 12th of
August, 1790, and their application as far as it has gone.

These loans having been contracted in virtue of the powers
communicated by both acts, without particular reference to
either, a specification of the loans made upon each is, of course,
not practicable. This mode of proceeding was indicated first,
by an intimation from our bankers in Holland that a distinc-
tion might prove an embarrassment (being a novelty, the rea-
son of which would not be obvious to the money lenders.)
Secondly, by the consideration that, if the loans were made
upon both acts indiscriminately, their application could be regu-
lated as circumstances, from time to time, should render advi-
sable.

These documents fulfil, as far as is practicable, the third and
fourth objects of the order.

Statement Gr, showing the probable unappropriated surplus
of the public revenue, during the year 1792.

This fulfils, as far as can now be done, the last of the objects
comprised in the order of the Senate.

* For these Statements see State Papers, Vol. I. p. 180.

Mi. 36.] BANK DEPOSITS, ETC. 355

But, by way of explanation, I beg leave to refer to the
printed statement D, which accompanied the estimate for the
service of the present year, reported to the House of Kepresen-
tatives on the 14th of November last, and which is herewith
transmitted.

The books, Nos. 1 and 2, the papers contained in the files A,
B, C, and D, and those marked AB, Nos. 1, 2, 3, are originals.
They are sent, rather than transcripts, to avoid delay, as it is
understood that the statements called for have referent to the'
deliberations of the Senate on the bill making appropriations for
the service of the current year.

I suppose it would, be most agreeable to the Senate, to be
enabled, as soon as possible, by the receipt of the information
they have required, to proceed to a decision on that important
subject; and^exposed as I am, to very perplexing dilemmas, for
the want of the requisite appropriations, in consequence of
arrangements which it was my duty to enter into, to be able to
keep pace with the exigencies of the public service, I could not
but feel a solicitude to hasten the communication.

As the originals which have been mentioned are necessary
documents of office, I request that the Senate will be pleased to
cause them to be returned as soon as they shall have answered
the purpose for which they have been required.
With the most perfect respect,

I have the honor to be, &c,

Alexander Hamilton,
) Secretary of the Treasury.

The Vice-President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.

r

356 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 36.

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 4, 1793.

In the House of Representatives of the United States,

Wednesday, January 23, 1793.

Besoived, That the President of the United States be requested
to cause to be laid before this Hou$e, copies of the authorities
under which loans have been negotiated, pursuant to the acts of
the 4th and 12th of August, 1790, together with copies of the
authorities directing the application of the moneys borrowed.

Resolved, That the President of the United States be requested
to cause this House to be furnished with the names of the per-
sons by whom and to whom the respective payments of the
French debt have been made in France, pursuant to the act for
that purpose ; specifying the dates of the respective di'.afts upon
the commissioners in Holland, and the dates of the respective
payments of the debt : A similar statement is requested, respect-
ing the debts to Spain and Holland.

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be directed to
lay before this House an account, exhibiting half monthly the
balances between the United States and the Bank of the United
States, including the several branch banks, from the commence-
ment of those institutions to the end of the year 1792.

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be directed to
lay before this House an account of all moneys which '™ay have
come into the sinking fund, from the commencement o\ that in-
stitution to the present time ; specifying the particular fuW from
which they have accrued, and exhibiting, half yearly, thO sums
uninvested, and where deposited.

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be directed t#
report to this House the balance of all unapplied revenues at tfe
end of the year 1792 ; specifying whether in money or bon'ts>
and noting where the money is deposited : That he also rn^e
report of all unapplied moneys which may have been obtane(*

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 357

by the several loans authorized by law, and where such moneys
are now deposited.

Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, in pursuance of the foregoing

resolutions.

Treasury Department, February 4th, 1793.

Sm:

I have lost no time in preparing, as far as has been prac-
ticable, consistently with the course of facts, the several state-
ments required by the resolutions of the House of Eepresentatives
of the 23d of last month ; and I have concluded to add to them
such further statements as appeared to me necessary to convey
fully the information which is understood to be the object of
those resolutions. It was my first intention to submit these
statements collectively, with such explanatory remarks as the
occasion might demand; but finding, on experiment, from the
extent and variety of the matter involved in the resolutions, that
more time will be requisite for a full development of it than I
had anticipated, considerations of weight in my mind have deter-
mined me to present the different parts of the subject successively.
Among other advantages, incident to this course of proceeding,
will be that of having it in my power to give a more accurate
and mature view of the entire subject, without too great a dere-
liction of the current business of the Department. In executing
the task I propose to myself, I shall rely on the indulgence of
the House to a latitude of observation corresponding with the
peculiar circumstances of the case.

The resolutions, to which I am to answer, were not moved
without a pretty copious display of the reasons on which they
were founded. These reasons are before the public, through the
channel of the press. They are of a nature to excite attention ;
to beget alarm ; to inspire doubts. Deductions of a very extra-
ordinary complexion may, without forcing the sense, be drawn
from them.

I feel it incumbent upon me to meet the suggestions which

358 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

■

have been thrown out, with decision and explicitness. And
while I hope I shall let fall nothing inconsistent with that cor-
dial and unqualified respect which I feel for the House of Kepre-
sentatives ; while I acquiesce in the sufficiency of the motives
that induced on their part the giving a prompt and free coarse
to the investigation proposed; I cannot but resolve to treat the
subject with a freedom which is due to truth, and to the con-
sciousness of a pure zeal for the public interest.

I begin with the last of the four resolutions, because it is that
which seeks information relating to the most delicate and im-
portant of the suggestions that have been hazarded.

Here, however, I have to regret the utter impossibility of a
strict compliance with the terms of the resolution. The practi-
cability of such a compliance would suppose nothing less than
that, since the last day of December, 1792, all the accounts of all
the collectors of the customs and other officers of the revenue,
throughout the whole extent of the United States, could be
digested, made up, and forwarded to the treasury; could be
examined there, settled, and carried into the public books, under
their proper heads ; in a word, that all the accounts of the rev-
enues, receipts, and expenditures, of this extensive country,
could have passed through a complete exhibition, examination,
and adjustment, within the short period of twenty-three days.

It was made (as I presume from the result) satisfactorily to
appear to a committee of the House of Eepresentatives, who
were charged during the last session with framing a direction to
the treasury for bringing forward an annual account of receipts
and expenditures, that the course of public business would not
admit of the rendering of such an account in less than nine
months after the expiration of each year ; in conformity to which
idea, their report was formed, and an order of the House estab-
lished.

I need do nothing more, to evince the impracticability of an
exact compliance with the resolution in question, than to observe,
that it is even more comprehensive (though with less detail) than
the order of the House to which I have alluded.

To evince, nevertheless, my readiness to do all in my power

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 359

towards fulfilling the views of the House, and throwing light
upon the transactions of the Department, I shall now offer to
their inspection sundry statements, marked A, AB,* B, C, D, E,
F, which contain, as far as is at this time possible, the informa-
tion desired, and with sufficient certainty and accuracy to afford
satisfaction on the points of inquiry involved in the resolution.

The statement A shows in abstract the whole of the receipts
into, and expenditures from, the treasury, commencing with the
first of January, and ending with the last of December, 1792,
corresponding with the accounts of the treasurer. These ac-
counts have been regularly settled up to the end of September,
and copies have been laid before the two Houses of Congress.
The account for the quarter terminating with the year has not
yet passed through the forms of settlement, but is under exam-
ination, and will, no doubt, be settled as it stands ; the manner
of conducting the business, and the usual care and accuracy of
the officer concerned, leaving very little room to apprehend mis-
statement or error. A copy of this account is herewith submit-
ted, in the schedule marked C.

This statement takes up the balance of the general account of
receipts and expenditures to the end of the year 1791, as reported
to the House of Eepresentatives within the first week of the
present session, and continuing it down to the end of 1792,
shows a balance then in the treasury of seven hundred and
eighty-three thousand four hundred and forty-four dollars and
fifty-one cents.

The statement B is a more comprehensive document. It is a
general account of income and expenditure. It shows not merely
the actual receipts of money into the treasury, but the whole
amount of the national revenues, from the commencement of the
present Government, to the conclusion of the year 1792, as well
outstanding as collected ; the proceeds of domestic loans ; the
whole amount of the sums which have been drawn into the
United States, on account of the foreign loans; and all other
moneys, from whatever source, which have accrued within the
period embraced by the statement.

* For statement AB, see State Papers, Finance, Vol. I., p. 188.

360 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 36.

These items form the debit side of the account, amounting to
seventeen millions eight hundred and seventy-nine thousand
eight hundred and twenty-five dollars and thirty-three cents.

The credit side consists of two items : 1. The whole amount
of the actual expenditures to the end of the year 1791, as stated
in the general account of receipts and expenditures before re-
ferred to. 2. The whole amount of the actual expenditures dur-
ing the year 1792, as specified generally in the statement A, and
particularly in the several quarterly accounts of the treasurer,
amounting to twelve millions seven hundred and sixty-five thou-
sand one hundred and twenty-eight dollars and eighty-three
cents.

The balance of this account of income and expenditure is
consequently five millions one hundred and fourteen thousand
six hundred and ninety-six dollars and fifty cents ; which cor-
responds with the excess of the public income (including the
proceeds of loans, foreign and domestic) beyond the actual ex-
penditure, or more properly speaking, disbursement, to the end of
the year 1792. This of course is exclusive of those parts of the
proceeds of foreign loans which have been left in Europe, to be
applied there ; the amount, application, and balance of which,
are exhibited, as far as they are yet known at the treasury, in
the statement No. 1, of my late report on foreign loans.

This balance, as noted in the statement B, is composed of the
following particulars :

1. Cash in the treasury, per statement A, - $783,444 51

2. Cash in the Bank of the United States, and
the offices of discount and deposit of New-
York and Baltimore, not yet passed to the

account of the treasurer, per statement AB, 605,883 08

3. Proceeds of Amsterdam bills remaining in

deposit in the Bank of North America, in-
cluding the sum of one hundred and fifty-
six thousand five hundred and ninety -five
dollars and fifty-six cents, advanced by the
bank, without interest, which is credited in

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 361

tlie general account of receipts and expen-
ditures, statement A, - - - - - 177,998 80

4. Proceeds of Amsterdam bills sold, but not

yet received, - 614,593 02

5. Cash in hands of collectors of customs, per

abstract D, 151,851 25

6. Bonds unpaid at the end of the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, on
account of the duties on imports and ton-
nage, and falling due between that time and
May, one thousand seven hundred and nine-
ty four, per abstract E, - - - - 2,442,069 15

7. Uncollected residue of duties on spirits dis-
tilled within the United States, per abstract

F, 341,057 19

Making, together, - $5,116,897 00

This aggregate somewhat exceeds the balance of the account,
l}ut, in a case where estimates must necessarily supply the defi-
ciency of ascertained results, differences of this nature are of
course. It is at the same time satisfactory to observe, that the
estimates which have been heretofore communicated are proved,
by the official documents already received, to have been essen-
tially correct.

It will no doubt readily occur to the House, that a very small
part of the excess which has been stated, is a real surplus of
income. There remain to be satisfied, numerous objects of
expenditure, charged upon the fund by the appropriations which
have been made, that cannot fail ultimately to exhaust it, proba-
bly within four or five hundred thousand dollars ; which will be
embraced in the appropriations for the service of the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-three. A further explana-
tion on this point is reserved for future communication.

A due comprehension of the statements now presented must
obviate every idea of a balance unaccounted for, in whatever
sense the allegation may have been intended to be made.

c 24

362 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 36.

If there was before any obscurity on the subject, it was cer-
tainly not the fault of this Department. Till the last resolutions,
no call has been made upon it which rendered it proper to
exhibit a general view of the public moneys and funds, or to
show the amount and situation of such as were unapplied. Par-
ticular calls for particular objects were made, which, as I conceive,
were complied with ; but they were not comprehensive enough
to embrace a disclosure of that nature.

It could not therefore with propriety have been alleged, that
there was a balance unaccounted for ; to infer it from documents,
which contained only a part of the necessary information, was
not justifiable. Nor could it otherwise happen, than that con-
clusions, wholly erroneous, would be the consequences of taking
such imperfect data for guides.

It may be of use, by way of elucidation, to point out some of
the most palpable features of the error which has been enter-
tained.

The following items are stated as the basis of the supposed
deficiency :

Eesidue of fhe proceeds of the foreign bills sup-
posed to be unapplied (after deducting the sums
furnished for St. Domingo, and the amount of
the debt to the foreign officers), - - - $1,668,190
Surplus of sinking fund, meaning, I presume, that
part of the surplus of the revenue to the end of
the year 1790, which had not been applied in

purchases, 400,000

Surplus of revenue of the year 1792, as reported, 277,385

2,345,575

Deduct, in bank, meaning, I presume, the balance

of the treasurer's cash account, - - - 790,642

Balance, not accounted for, 1,554,933

It appears, in the first place, to have been overlooked, that,
in statement No. 3, of my late report concerning foreign loans,

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 363

mention is made that, on the 3d of January, there remained to be
received of the proceeds of the foreign bills, six hundred and
thirty-two thousand one hundred and thirty-two dollars and two
cents ; consequently, that sum could not be considered as in
the treasury, and ought to be deducted from the supposed defi-
ciency.

Among the official papers, which it is intimated were con-
sulted, was an original account, rendered by the Bank of the
United States, of the sales of Amsterdam bills, showing a sum of
six hundred and five thousand eight hundred and eighty-three
dollars and eight cents, as having been received by the bank and
two of its offices of discount and deposit, for the proceeds of
those bills. Had the document been understood, it would have
been known, that this sum was in bank over and above the
balance of the treasurer's cash account; and this also would have
served to account for a large part of the supposed deficiency ;
namely, six hundred and five thousand eight hundred and eighty-
three dollars and eight cents. The course of this transaction will
be hereafter explained.

But, among the misconceptions which have obtained, what
relates to the surplus of revenue of the year 1792, is not the
least striking. The laws inform (and consequently no informa-
tion on that point from this Department could have been neces-
sary) that credits are allowed upon the duties on imports, of four,
six, nine, twelve months, and, in some cases, of two years.
Reason dictates, that a surplus, in such case, must be considered
as postponed in the collection or receipt, till all the appropriations
upon the fund have been first satisfied. The account of receipts
and expenditures to the end of 1791, in possession of the House,
shows that, at that time, no less a sum than one million eight
hundred and twenty-eight thousand two hundred and eighty-nine
dollars and twenty-eight cents of the antecedent duties were
outstanding in bonds. How then could it have happened, that
the surplus of 1792 was sought for in the treasury, at the very
instant of the expiration of the year ? I forbear to attempt to trace
the source of a mistake so extraordinary !

Let me, however, add, that, of the surplus in question, one

364 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 36.

hundred and seventy-two thousand five hundred and eighty -four
dollars and eighty-two cents are not payable till April and May,
1794, as will be seen by the abstract E.

Thus have I not only furnished a just and affirmative view
of the real situation of the public account, but have likewise
shown, I trust in a conspicuous manner, fallacies enough in the
statement, from which the inference of an unaccounted for
balance is drawn, to evince that it is one tissue of error. In this
I might have gone still further, there being scarcely a step of
the whole process which is not liable to the imputation of misap-
prehension. But I wish not unnecessarily to weary the patience
of the House.

Another circumstance, to which importance has been given,
and which was noticed in connection with the suggestion last
discussed, is a disagreement between a memorandum in the
treasurer's bank-book, and the statement reported by me of the
amount of bills drawn at the treasury upon the foreign fund. A
disagreement no doubt exists, and to the extent of five millions
seven hundred and sixty thousand one hundred and thirty-eight
florins or guilders.

But the following circumstances contain the solution of this
disquieting appearance.

There will be found in the statement A two several credits,
each for two millions of dollars, as for moneys received into the
treasury, with corresponding debits of equal sums, as for moneys
paid out of the treasury.

But neither the one nor the other did in reality take place.
The whole is a mere operation, to accomplish the purposes of
the eleventh section of the " act to incorporate the subscribers to
the Bank of the United States," without an inconvenient and
unnecessary displacement of funds.

That section authorizes a subscription to the stock of the
bank, on account of the Government, not exceeding in amount
two millions of dollars, and provides for the payment of it out of
the moneys which should be borrowed by virtue of either of the
acts of the fourth and twelfth of August, 1790; the first making
provision for the public debt, the last for reducing it ; enjoining,

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 365

at the same time, that a loan should be made of the bank to an
equal amount, to replace the moneys which were to be applied
to the payment of the subscription.

It is evident, that nothing could have been more useless (at
the same time that it would have been attended with obvious
disadvantages to the Government), than actually to draw from
Europe, out of the moneys borrowed there, the sum necessary
for the payment of the subscription to the bank, and again to
remit, out of the loan which was to be obtained of the bank, a
sufficient sum to replace such moneys, or such part of them as
may have been destined for the foreign object. Loss upon
exchange, in consequence of overstocking the market with bills ;
loss in interest, by the delays incident to the operation ; and
which would necessarily have suspended the useful employment
of the funds for a considerable time : these are some of the
disadvantages to the Government. To the bank alone could
any benefit have accrued ; which would have been in propor-
tion to the delay in restoring or applying the fund to its primi-
tive destination. Such an operation, therefore, could only have
been justified by an indisposition on the part of the bank to faci-
litate the principal object, without the intervention of actual
payment.

But no such disposition existed. On this, as on every other
occasion, a temper liberal towards the Government has charac-
terized the conduct of the directors of that institution.

It was accordingly proposed by me, and agreed to by them,
that the object to be accomplished should be carried into effect
by a merely formal arrangement. In this, however, it was
necessary to consult the injunctions of law, and the principles
of the constitution of the treasury department.

These points then were to be effected : a payment of the sub-
scription money, to vest the government with the property of
the stock ; possession of the means of paying it, which were to
be derived from the foreign fund, and of course were first to be
in the treasury before payment could be made ; the replacing
what should be taken from that fund, by a loan of the bank.

The following plan for these purposes was devised and exe-
cuted, by previous concert :

366 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

The treasurer drew bills upon our commissioners in Amster-
dam for the sums requisite to complete the payment on account
of the subscription. These bills were purchased by the bank,
and warrants in favor of the treasurer upon the bank served, to
place the proceeds in the treasury. Warrants afterwards issued
upon the treasurer, in favor of the bank, for the amount of the
subscription money, which was receipted for on the part of the
bank, as paid. Other warrants then issued in favor of the trea-
surer upon the bank, for equal sums, as upon account of a loan
to the Government, which warrants were satisfied by a re-delivery
to the treasurer of the bills that had been drawn upon the com-
missioners. In the last place, warrants were drawn upon the
treasurer, to replace the moneys supposed by the arrangement to
be drawn from the foreign fund, which perfected the operation.
But, from the detail which has been given, it will be seen that,
in fact, no moneys were either withdrawn from, or returned to,
that fund. The bills were cancelled, annexed to the warrants,
and are lodged in the treasury as vouchers of the transaction.

These bills were for two separate sums, each two millions
four hundred and seventy-five thousand guilders, equal to a
million of dollars ; the payment having been divided into two
parts, upon certain equitable considerations, relative to the divi-
dend of the first half year.

This transaction explains four millions nine hundred and
fifty thousand guilders, of the sum which forms the disagree-
ment between the memorandum in the treasurer's bank book,
and the statement reported by me.

The residue is thus explained : The sum of one million two
hundred and thirty-seven thousand five hundred guilders,
directed to be drawn for, on the thirtieth of November, was
directed to be comprised in one or more bills, as the bank should
desire. It was at first placed in one bill ; but this bill was after-
wards returned, with a request that it might be converted into
smaller sums. The bill returned was cancelled ; and, in lieu of
it, there had been furnished, prior to the 1st of January, of the
present year, nine hundred and thirty-four thousand five hun-
dred guilders ; the balance, three hundred and three thousand,

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 367

then remaining to be furnished. The sum of nine hundred and
thirty-four thousand five hundred guilders, consequently appears
twice in the memorandum.

These two sums, of four millions five hundred and ninety
thousand, and nine hundred and thirty-four thousand guilders,
exceed the difference in question, by one hundred and twenty-
four thousand three hundred and sixty-two guilders.

The treasurer informs me, that there are two bills not included
in the memorandum ; one for one hundred and twenty-three
thousand seven hundred and fifty, and the other for six hundred
and twelve guilders ; which make up the above mentioned
excess. The former of these two bills was furnished to the
Secretary of State for the purpose contemplated by the third
section of the act of the last session, entitled " An act making
certain appropriations therein specified."

Is it not truly matter of regret, that so formal an explanation,
on such a point, should have been made requisite ? Could no
personal inquiry, of either of the officers concerned, have super-
seded the necessity of publicly calling the attention of the House
of Eepresentatives to an appearance, in truth, so little signifi-
cant ? Was it seriously supposable that there could be any real
difficulty in explaining that appearance, when the very disclosure
of it proceeded from a voluntary act of the head of this depart-
ment?

With perfect respect,

I have the honor to be, sir,
Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury.

The Hon. Jonathan Trumbull, Esq.

Speaker of the House of Representatives.

P. S. Another statement of income and expenditure having
been made, which presents the subject under another aspect,
but agreeing in the result with the statement B, is herewith also
submitted, marked B a.

For Schedule see State Papers, Finance, Vol. I., p. 196.

368 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JBx. 36.

LOANS.

Communicated to the Senate, February 6, 1793.

Treasury Department, February 6, 1793.

Sir:

In pursuance of the first part of the order of the Senate, of
the 23d of January past, I have the honor to send, herewith,
sundry statements, marked A, AB, B, B a, D, E, F,* and I beg
the permission of the Senate to add the copy of a letter dated
yesterday, which served to transmit duplicates of the same doc-
uments to the House of Eepresentatives, and which contains
some explanations of them, a repetition of which, here, will be,
thereby, rendered unnecessary. The document C, referred to in
that letter, was also sent to the House of Eepresentatives, but
being of considerable length, a duplicate is not yet ready ; and
I did not think it advisable to detain the other papers till it was
ready.

The documents, now transmitted, will answer the whole of the
inquiry contained in the first part of the order, above referred
to, except what regards a distribution of the expenditures, under
each head of appropriation, which is in preparation, and will be
forwarded as soon as it can be ready.

The situation in which I am placed, renders further delay abso-
lutely necessary, to the fulfilment of the second part of the order.

There is a point in my letter of the 16th of January to the
Senate, concerning which, some explanation is requisite. I
stated, as one motive to the joint negotiation of the loans, under
both acts, " an intimation from our bankers in Holland, that a
distinction might prove an embarrassment, being a novelty, the
reason of which would not be obvious to the money lenders."
This was done from memory, without recurrence to documents,
and in a degree of hurry occasioned by my anxiety for the
speedy passing of the appropriation bill, and upon a revision,

* For these statements, see State Papers, Finance, Vol. I , pp. 187-190; 195-200.

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 369

proves to be not accurate. The mistake arose in the following
manner. My original idea was, to maintain a separation between
the two acts. This will appear from my letter of the 28th of
August, 1790, to our bankers, in which I express a desire that
they would endeavor to place part of the first loan upon one act,
and another part upon the other act. But they did not carry
this idea into execution, for the reason assigned in their answer,
now before the Senate ; which is, that the subdivision proposed
would, under the circumstances of the case, tend to excite spec-
ulations and doubts among the money lenders.

But, prior to the receipt of their answer, I had made further
inquiry, and had reflected more on the subject. The result of
my inquiry was, that the money lenders, having been accus-
tomed to lend on the general credit of the Government borrow-
ing, with a sort of general pledge of its revenues and resources,
the attempt to bottom a loan upon any particular law, might, as
a novelty, occasion some hesitation and embarrassment among
them ; especially, as they are known to be a description of men,
much influenced by habit and precedent ; and the conclusions,
from more full reflection, were, that the distinguishing of the
loans with reference to each act, might not only embarrass the
business, in the first stages of negotiation, but might interfere with
an application of the proceeds of the loans, in the most conve-
nient and beneficial manner, according to circumstances.

On these considerations, I abandoned my original intention,
and in my first instruction to Mr. Short, was silent on the point.

These different positions of the subject in the mind, at differ-
ent times, and what actually took place, with regard to the first
loan, produced some confusion in the recollection of facts, and
led me to assign as a cause, what had been only a collateral cir-
cumstance, and to ascribe to the bankers, intimations, or rather
information, which I had received from other quarters.

I submit this explanation of the matter to the candor of the
Senate, and have the honor to be, with perfect respect,

Sir, your most obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

The Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

370 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

Treasury Department, February 5, 1793.

Sir:

By order of the President of the United States, I have the
honor to transmit herewith :

1. Copies of a power given by him, to the Secretary of the
Treasury for the time being, dated the 28th of August, 1790, for
the negotiation of the loans authorized by the laws of the 4th
and 12th of August, 1790, and of certain instructions relative
thereto, dated on the same day.

2. Copies of an authority, founded upon the power of the
President, from me to William Short, Esquire, dated the 1st of
September, 1790, and of sundry letters from me, to the said
William Short, of dates from the 29th of May, 1790, to the 31st
of December, 1792, inclusively, relating to the negotiation and
application of the above mentioned loans.

3. Originals of sundry letters, from William Short, to me,
under dates from the 2d of December, 1790, to the 2d of No-
vember, 1792, inclusively, relating to the same subject.

4. Copy of an authority from me, to Messrs. Wilhem and
John Willinks, Nicholaas and J. Van Staphorst, and Hubbard,
bankers of the United States, at Amsterdam, dated the 28th of
August, 1790, relating to the first of the loans made under the
above mentioned acts, and copies of sundry letters to the said
bankers, of dates from the 28th of August, 1790, to the 31st of
December, 1792, inclusively.

5. Originals of sundry letters, from the said bankers, to me,
of dates from the 25th of January, 1790, to the 5th of Novem-
ber, 1792.

6. Copies of sundry letters, of dates from the 18th of June, to
the 24th of September, 1792, inclusively, between (x. Morris, and
W. Short, Esquires, having relation to the above subjects.

The general power from the President .to the Secretary of the
Treasury, of the 28th of August, 1790, and the communications
from William Short, Esquire, who has been the only commis-
sioner, would, it is presumed, have fulfilled the terms of the
resolution of the Senate of the 23d of last month, and are trans-
mitted, pursuant to the request contained in that resolution.

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 371

But the President has been pleased to direct the transmission
of the other documents, also, in the supposition that they will
serve to throw light upon the general subject of that resolution.
With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, Sir, yours, &c.

Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury.
The Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

[Note. Of the papers referred to in this report, none are now to be found, ex-
cept those published with the Secretary's second report, of the 13th February,
1793, which follows.]

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 13, 1793.

Sir:

The next most important article of inquiry involved in
the resolutions of the House of Kepresentatives of the 23d of
January last, and in the observations which have been made
respecting the conduct of this Department, relates to the loans
negotiated under the acts of the fourth and twelfth of August,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety.

The papers which have been transmitted to the House by
order of the President, disclose the following particulars —

1. That the immediate superintendence of the business of the
loans was confided to the Department of the Treasury, being
naturally connected with it. This trust, besides the original in-
structions for regulating the execution of it, which have been
communicated, was of course subject to such directions, from
time to time, as the President should think fit to give, or as oc-
casions should require. A considerable latitude of discretion,
nevertheless, from the very nature of the case, attended it, so as
justly to leave, on the head of this Department, a complete

372 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 36.

responsibility in all instances, where special exceptions do not
appear.

2. That the first loan which was obtained, was undertaken and
completed by the agency of Wilhem and Jan Willink, and Ni-
cholaas and Jacob Van Staphorst and Hubbard, who, both under
the former and present Government, have been, and are, the
bankers of the United States, at Amsterdam.

3. That, with the single exception of the first loan, William
Short, Esq., then charge des affaires at the court of France, now
resident minister at the Hague, was constituted the sole agent of
this Department for carrying into effect the powers confided to
it ; with this qualification only, that, if any negotiation with a
Prince or State, to whom any part of the debt to be discharged
by the loans was due, should be requisite, the same was to be
carried on through the person who, in capacity of minister,
charge des affaires, or otherwise, then was, or thereafter might be,
charged with transacting the affairs of the United States with
such Prince or State.

4. That all payments, which have been made out of the
proceeds of the loans, have been made by the immediate and
special order of Mr. Short, except those upon the bills of the
Treasurer for the moneys drawn to this country, and those to the
money lenders in Holland ; which were made in course by our
bankers, at the periods they respectively became due. This
consequently embraces all the payments to France ; the very last
of which, though agreed for by Mr. Morris, in consequence of
his having been employed for a special purpose by Mr. Short,
was not, and could not, be completed, but by the same immediate
and special direction of Mr. Short.

It moreover appears, from the same papers, and more fully
from the correspondence at large, now before the Senate, that,
except in the particular instance which has been just stated,
with regard to Mr. Morris, there has been no other agency in
the whole business, than that of Mr. Short, and of the bankers
at Amsterdam and Antwerp, whom he necessarily employed as
instruments in the negotiations with the money lenders, and in
the receipt and disbursement of the moneys borrowed. These,

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 373

as already mentioned, were, at Amsterdam, the two houses of
Wilhcm and Jan Willink, and of Nicholaas and Jacob Van
Staphorst and Hubbard ; at Antwerp, a Mr. G. De Wolf was the
banker.

It may not be without its uses to add, that the moneys pro-
ceeding from the loans have constantly remained in the hands of
the respective bankers, till they have been paid over to the cre-
ditors ; namely, the French treasury, or their bankers, the money
lenders or their representatives, the holders of the bills drawn from
this country by the treasurer. Neither Mr. Short nor Mr. Morris
has ever had possession of a single guilder. The latter, indeed,
has never even had power over one, excepting merely a sum of
105,000 guilders, by letter of mine, dated the 18th September
last, placed at his disposal for paying, at Paris, according to
stipulation, the interest on the debt due to foreign officers. The
fact is, and it is so demonstrated by the correspondence already
referred to, that I never wrote a line to Mr. Morris, on the sub-
ject of the loans or their proceeds, but in reference to the case
just mentioned, of the interest payable to foreign officers, in re-
spect to which, local situation governed.

One more circumstance only is necessary to be noticed in this
place, with a view to the elucidation intended. It is this : that
the last payment, though originating prior to the change in the
political position of France, of the 10th of August last, not hav-
ing been consummated till the 6th of September following, fell,
of course, under the disposition of those then in possession of the
power of the nation.

It could not but have been unexpected to me, that exception
should be taken to the report lately made by me on the subject
of foreign loans, for the omission of details which I did not, at
the time, and do not yet, conceive to have been called for, by the
terms of the resolutions upon which it was founded. The re-
quest addressed to the President, by those resolutions, was, that
he would cause to be laid before the House, a particular account
of the sums borrowed, under his authority, by the United States ;
the terms on which each loan was obtained ; the applications which
had been made of the moneys, agreeably to appropriations ; the

374 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

balances, if any, which remained unapplied ; specifying, also, at
what times interest commenced on the several sums obtained, and
at what times it was stopped by the several payments made. It
was not natural to imagine that these expressions were designed
to comprehend a specification of the precise authorities under which
the loans were negotiated, of the names of the persons, by whom
they were negotiated, of the particular place or places where the
balance unexpended of the sums that had been drawn for to the
United States, were deposited. Still less natural was it for me to
anticipate surmises, which could give to such particulars the
shadow of importance. But, as animadversions have attended
the omission of those details, I ought to regard it as an admoni-
tion to me to be more full and precise in my present communica-
tion— a motive which co-operates with my desire to throw all
possible light upon the subject.

The first general circumstance which requires to be noticed
and explained, after the particulars that have been communicat-
ed, is this : that all the loans which have been hitherto obtained
have been made under the authority of both acts, without par-
ticular reference to either.

The idea originally entertained was to conduct them on a
different plan, founding each loan upon one or the other of the
acts, as will be seen by my letter of the 28th of August, 1790, to
our bankers at Amsterdam ; at the same time that it will appear,
from the same letter, that the separation did not appear to me a
matter of consequence, and that I anticipated the possibility of a
difficulty in adhering to it in the particular case. That difficulty
proved, in the opinion of the bankers, to be of sufficient moment
to render the arrangement contemplated, under the circumstances
of the case, unadvisable, as they inform me in their answer to the
above-mentioned letter.

But, prior to the receipt of that answer, further inquiry and
reflection had determined me to abandon my original idea, as
' likely to produce embarrassment and inconvenience, both in the
negotiation of the loans, and in the application of their proceeds.
It was, accordingly, concluded to let the loans proceed indiscrim-
inately, upon both acts.

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 375

These loans were to have reference to two purposes : first,
the reimbursement of the foreign debt ; second, the purchase of
the domestic debt at its market price.

There were weighty reasons for carrying on both these ope-
rations concurrently. The arrears to France had been a consid-
erable time accumulating. It was, in every sense, proper that a
reimbursement of them should begin, without delay, and desi-
rable, for obvious reasons, that it should go on without any very
considerable chasms or intermissions. This manner of proceed-
ing could not but have the fairest chance of being the most satis-
factory and convenient to France; unless, indeed, the business
were to have proceeded upon the principle of an entire postpone-
ment of the domestic object to that of the reimbursement.

But very cogent reasons rendered this course not the most
eligible ; the early commencement of purchases of the debt was a
matter of real and great importance.

It was important in two relations : as it regarded the advan-
tages to the Government, from redeeming a portion of the debt
at low prices ; and still more, as it regarded the savings to the
country from raising the price of stock on foreign purchasers;
the beneficial influence upon the credit of the nation, abroad and
at home, to be expected from a quick appreciation of the public
obligations ; the benefit to the public creditors in general, and to
the most meritorious classes of them in particular, which would
result from the same cause; all which objects were suggested
from the treasury, as motives to the provision respecting pur-
chases, and are evidently contemplated in the preamble of the
act which makes that provision.

Exclusive of the other advantages which have been cited,
and which are of a nature truly precious and important, that of
preventing foreigners from acquiring the property of our citizens,
at a great undervalue, is too obvious not to be estimated, as it
ought to be, at first sight. It cannot require argument to show
how great an evil it was, that foreigners should be able to ac-
quire, with nine or ten, that for which the country would ulti"
mately have to pay them twenty, with full interest in the inter-
val ; nor how much it merited the attention of the Government
to prevent or lessen so serious an evil.

376 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

But the influences which the purchases by the Government
may have had upon this event may not be equally obvious. It
is, however, not difficult to be traced. Price naturally keeps
pace with competition and demand; whatever increases the
latter, necessarily tends to an augmentation of the former.
Merely, then, as another purchaser, by adding to the competi-
tion and demand, the purchases of the Government were calcu-
lated to influence a rise of price. But they had an effect more
than proportioned to their real extent. Imagination has much
to do in all such questions, and in scarcely any thing so much
as in what relates to public funds. Experience proves that it is
here exerted with uncommon effort. The appearance of the
Government, as a purchaser, has not failed to excite the expec-
tation of a greater demand than was real, because the extent of
the resources, to be employed, might be very great, and was
unknown ; which, by stimulating the zeal of those who wanted
to buy, lest the price should rise suddenly and considerably upon
them, and by encouraging those who wanted to sell, under the
hope of a better price, to hold back the commodity, has, in both
ways, generally contributed to give a spring to the market.
Prices once raised, when founded on intrinsic value, tend to
maintain themselves ; because those who have given them are,
for the most part, interested in keeping them up; and every
new impulse which they receive, serves to carry them rapidly
to their just level.

Those who have been most attentive to the operation of the
public purchases will have the least doubt that they had a ma-
terial agency in accelerating the appreciation of the public stock.

An inquiry naturally arises here, Were the moneys which
were drawn from Europe, on account of the foreign loans, the
instrument of the purchases to which these beneficial effects are
ascribed ?

I answer, that these purchases are to be attributed to the in-
strumentality of that fund ; that, had it not been for this resource,
they could not have been made at the early periods when most
of them were made. The course of the transaction will be fully,
and with more propriety, explained in another place.

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 377

An attention to both objects — to the reimbursements to
France, and to the purchases of the debt, rendered expedient a
submission even of the first loan. Considerations of the moment
seconded those of a general nature, to induce an immediate pay-
ment to that country. The loan had been undertaken without
previous authority from hence, with a view to such payment :
this was known, and a correspondent expectation excited. The
immediate situation of the French finances rendered a payment,
at the particular juncture, more than ordinarily interesting. In
such a state of things, there could be no hesitation about apply-
ing a large part of the loan to that object. Another part of it
was, of necessity, applied to the payment of the sums that were
falling due on the Dutch loans; and it is presumed that the
reasons which have been assigned, will appear to have been
sufficiently powerful to have dictated the drawing of a part of it
to the United States.

Accordingly, a million and a half of the three millions bor-
rowed were appropriated to France ; something more than eight
hundred thousand guilders were drawn for here, and the remain-
der of the loan was left to be disbursed in Holland.

It shall not be concealed, though I am aware that the ac-
knowledgment may be a subject of criticism, that the conduct
which was pursued, both with regard to this and to the succeed-
ing loan, was, in some degree, influenced by a collateral consid-
eration. The Government had but just adopted a plan for the
restoration of public credit. The periodical payment of interest
was to commence on the 1st of April, 1791. A considerable part
of the revenue, out of which the moneys were to arise, was only
to begin to accrue on the 1st of January preceding. This rev-
enue was liable to credits of four, six, and twelve months.

How far its eventual product would answer expectation ; how
far the punctuality of payments could be relied upon ; were
points unascertained, and which required, to their ascertainment,
much more experience than had been obtained. In such a situ-
ation it was not only natural, but necessary, for an administrator
of the finances to doubt ; and, doubting, it was his duty to call
to the aid of the public credit every auxiliary which it was in his
c 25

378 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

power to command. He was bound to reflect, that a failure in
any stipulated payment would be fatal to the dawning credit of
the country ; to the reputation of the Government, just beginning
to rise. That a wound inflicted upon either, at so early a stage,
under all the circumstances of opposition to the constitution,
which had existed in the community, would have been deeply
felt, and might either not have admitted of a cure at all, or not
till after a length of time, and a series of mischiefs ; that it could
not but be an important service rendered to the country to ward
off so great a misfortune, by the temporary use of any extraordi-
nary resource which might be at hand, till time was given for
more effectual provision.

If, in the course of such reflections, a doubt had occurred
about the strict regularity of what was contemplated as a possible
resort, a mind sufficiently alive to the public interest, and suffi-
ciently firm in the pursuit of it, would have dismissed that doubt,
as an obstacle, suggested by a pusillanimous caution, to the exer-
cise of those higher motives, which ought ever to govern a man,
invested with a great public trust. It would have occurred, that
there was reasonable ground to rely, that the necessity of the
case, and the magnitude of the occasion, would insure a justifica-
tion, and that, if the contrary should happen, there remained still
the consolation of having sacrificed personal interest and tran-
quillity, no matter to what extent, to an important public in-
terest, and of having avoided the humiliation which would have
been justly due to an opposite and to a feeble conduct.

The disposition which was resolved upon with regard to the
first loan, involved, necessarily, a decision of the point, that the
loans might be placed on the joint foundation of both acts. That
loan having been undertaken, as already mentioned, without
previous authority, and, consequently, without a particular eye
to either act, it was probable that it would be found too late to
make an apportionment of one part of the sum borrowed to one
act, of another part to the other act. In that case, the distribu-
tive application of the fund to the different objects, was to be
relinquished, or the possibility was to be admitted of the loan
being left to stand upon the authority of both acts. The same

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 379

disposition of the first loan, will, also, illustrate the convenience
and expediency of the plan which was finally adopted, that is, of
placing the loans on the basis of both acts.

The idea of a concurrent execution of both the objects to
which the loans were destined, could not, conveniently, have
been pursued, upon the plan of a separation of the loans, which,
to be effectual, would include the strict application of the pro-
ceeds of each, to the purposes of the particular act upon which
it was founded.

Amsterdam was naturally looked to, as the great scene of the
intended loans. There, as every where else, there is but a certain
quantity of money floating in the market, from time to time,
beyond the necessary demands of trade and industry, seeking
for employment in loans. This quantity, of course, varies at
different periods, from a variety of causes. Of the quantity at
any time afloat, but a certain proportion can be commanded by
any one borrowing power, owing to the competition of other
borrowers, who have, each, their connections, through their
bankers, with different sets of undertakers and money lenders.
Nor is it always that considerable loans can be had, at any rate.
There are certain seasons only, when they are practicable.

To have brought two loans upon the market at one time, as
an opportunity of borrowing offered, which must have been the
case in order to make concurrent provision for both the objects
in question, if the principle of a separation of the loans had
been adopted, would have been to exhibit to the money lenders
a very unusual appearance. With men known to be much
influenced by precedent and habit, such an appearance could not
have failed to prove a source of speculation and conjecture, and
might have led to a confused idea that the wants of the United
States were excessive — a supposition by no means calculated to
promote their credit. It would, moreover, have been a departure
from that simplicity of procedure, which, where numbers are
concerned, is always of moment to a right conception of the
business to be accomplished, and ought not to be abandoned but
for reasons of real utility and weight.

To have instituted the loans successively, founding each upon

380 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

one or the other of the acts, would have had a tendency to
occasion longer intervals between the payments to France than
was desirable. The intervention of a loan for the purpose of
purchases, would have created, of course, a very considerable
chasm. It may be objected, that such chasms did happen on the
plan which was pursued. This is true, in two instances; but the
most material of the two proceeded from casualties foreign to the
plan itself, which are detailed in the correspondence more than
once alluded to.

It is possible, too, that a separation of the loans might have
rendered it less easy to take advantage of a state of the market,
favorable to their extension at a particular juncture. The loan
to be brought on the market might relate to the purchase of the
debt. The moment might be favorable to a more considerable
loan than was within the limits prescribed for that object, and
the opportunity might slip before a second could be instituted.
In this business, moments are often of importance, and are to be
embraced with promptitude and dexterity.

Thus, it appears that, in different ways, the negotiation of the
loans might have been embarrassed by their separation.

But the most obvious, if not the most serious of the inconven-
iences which would have attended it, respects the application of
the sums borrowed. This could not, then, have been moulded
as the interest or policy of the Government might dictate. A
loan for the purchase of the debt might have been made, under
prospects promising a ready and beneficial investment of it ; but,
before the investment was made, a change of the market might
render it ineligible, involving the alternative, either of a disad-
vantageous investment, or of leaving, perhaps, a large sum of
money a long time unemployed. Such a state of things might
have produced, to the banks, an advantage, and, to the Govern-
ment, a loss, of magnitude sufficient to give color to a surmise
that the public interest had been sacrificed to the profit of those
institutions. The contrary course has essentially avoided that
evil, which, in this, and in other instances, would have been
incident, in a far greater degree, to the modes of proceeding,
contrasted with those that have been pursued, than has, in reality,
attended them.

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 381

Or, political considerations might have rendered it advisable
to transfer the application of the fund from one object to the
other.

Of this, the case of St. Domingo presents an example. It
might have happened, on the plan of separate loans, that there
was no fund in hand but for the purchase of the debt. Then, on
the principle of that plan, there would have been no fund^in the
disposition of the Executive, applicable to the other object,
which would have embarrassed the performance of a duty
towards a friendly Power, and, in a way which included the
positive advantage to the country, of paying, directly, a part of
its foreign debt, in its own productions.

Such were the embarrassments avoided, and such the conven-
iences secured, by the plan of making the loans indiscriminately,
upon the authority of both acts.

In the opposite plan, I can discern no counterbalancing
advantage nor convenience.

Consequently, if both are equally legal, there can be no
doubt which of them ought to have been preferred.

If there be any want of legality in the plan which has been
pursued, I was not, at the time, and am not yet, sensible of it.

I know of no rule which renders it illegal in an agent, hav-
ing, from the same principal, two authorities to borrow money,
whether for one, or different purposes, to unite the loans he may
make, upon the foundation of both authorities, provided the
terms of them be consistent with both or either of his commis-
sions. If the purposes are different, it will be incumbent upon
him to take care that the application of the moneys borrowed
makes the proper separation, and, doing this, he will have ful-
filled his trust. To test this position, it seems only necessary to
ask, whether the principal, in such case, would not be fully bound
to the lenders? •

In reflecting, originally, upon the regularity of the proceed-
ing meditated, there was but one source of hesitation — the dif-
ference in the funds upon which the loans were to rest. But,
the following reasoning satisfied the scruple : Tl^e pledging of
particular funds, is for the security of the lenders. If they are

382 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 36.

willing to waive the special security, by lending on the general
credit of the Government, or to dispense with the preference of
one fund to another, where two are pledged, by lending indis-
criminately on the credit of both, the one or the other circum-
stance must be alike indifferent to the Government. The au-
thority will have been well executed, to the extent necessary
for public purposes, and, if any thing remains unexecuted, it will
be in enlargement, not in abridgment of the public rights. It is,
however, presumed, that the practical construction, in the pres-
ent case, will be, that the two funds pledged, will constitute an
aggregate for the joint security of the moneys borrowed upon
both acts.

The second general circumstance respecting the foreign loans,
negotiated under the acts of the 4th and 12th of August, which
requires attention, relates to the terms on which they have been
obtained. These, it appears, have been represented as neither
honorable nor advantageous.

The following facts, witnessed by the correspondence before
the Senate, more than once referred to, and well known to all
who have had opportunities of information, demonstrate that
the terms of those loans have been both honorable and advan-
tageous.

1. There is not one of them, which originated under the
acts, that was not effected upon conditions equally favorable
with those attending the loans of the cotemporary borrowing
Powers, of the most tried resources, and best established credit,
and more favorable than were obtained by some Powers of great
respectability.

2. The United States took a lead in the market, in regard to
the subsequent reductions of interest, having had either earlier
or more complete success than any other borrowing Power.

3. From a rate of five per cenlt interest, and four and a half
per cent, charges, which marked the level of the market when
they begun their loans, they, in the course of a single year,
brought down the terms to four per cent, interest, and five per
cent, charges j that is, from an interest on the net sum received
(including an indemnification for charges) of 5.5012, something

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 383

more than five and a half per cent., to an interest on the like
sum of 4.4951, something less than four and a half per cent.

When this state of things is applied to a Government only
in the third year of its existence, and to a country which had so
recently emerged from a total derangement of its finances, it
would seem impossible to deny that the issue is not only honor-
able, but flattering — unless, indeed, it can be denied, that a
sound and vigorous state of credit is honorable to a nation.

I forbear a comparison between the loans of the present and
of the former Government of this country, because an immense
disparity of circumstances would render it an improper one —
further than to take notice of a very great error, which has
been, upon some occasions, advanced. It has been alleged, to
disparage the management under the present, that the loans of
the former Government, in a situation, comparatively, very dis-
advantageous, have been effected upon equal terms ; and, in
proof of this, an appeal has been made to the loan of 2,000,000
of guilders, at four per cent., which is that of the 9th March,
1784.

Nothing can manifest more clearly than this, the very pre-
cipitate and superficial views with which suggestions on impor-
tant public subjects are sometimes made. The last four per
cent, loan obtained under the existing laws, including charges,
is a real four and a half per cent, loan, or, more exactly, a
4.4951 per cent. loan. The four per cent, loan, of March, 1784,
is a real 6.6468 per cent. loan. The difference, which exceeds
two per cent., arises, principally, from extra premiums and grati-
fications, which were allowed upon this loan, and which are un-
known to the other.

Much praise is, no doubt, due to the exertions which effected
the loans under the former Government. A superiority of merit
shall readily be conceded to them, from the circumstances under
which they were made, and their signal utility in the Kevolution.
But it is not necessary to their eulogium, to affirm, that they
were made, upon equal terms with those of the loans lately ob-
tained, or, to deny the goodness of the terms of the latter. Truth
will not justify the one or the other.

384 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

The facts which have been stated, prove, that the terms of
the loans are advantageous as well as honorable. They are,
comparatively, advantageous, because they are as moderate as
other Powers, in the best credit, have allowed ; and they are
absolutely advantageous, because the highest real, not nominal,
rate of interest, which has been given, does not exceed 5.5012 —
a fraction more than 5i per cent. ; while the lowest real rate is
4.4951 — a fraction less than 4| per cent.

If the question, whether advantageous or not, be tested by
the purposes for which the loans have been made, the conclusion
is equally in their favor. The payments on account of the for-
eign debt were an indispensable obligation. Unless it can be
shown that they might have been derived from another and
more advantageous source, it will follow, that it was the in-
terest of the Government to avail itself of the resource which
has been employed, because it was its duty to discharge its obli-
gations.

It is sometimes urged, that foreign loans, for whatever pur-
pose, are pernicious, because they serve to drain the country of
its specie for the payment of interest, and for the final reimburse-
ment of principal; that it would be preferable, for that reason,
to procure loans at home, even at a higher rate of interest.

To this, several answers may be given, some of a special,
others of a general nature.

In reference to the reimbursement of the foreign debt, it may
be observed, that, as a debt had already been incurred abroad,
upon which interest was payable, the contracting of new loans
there, for the reimbursement of that debt, would leave us, as to
the demand for the exportation of our specie, just where we
originally stood.

Moreover, if the money could have been borrowed at home
for that reimbursement, the remittance of it would have been
ruinous to the country. The mere necessity of remitting, could
not, alone, have increased the foreign demand for our commodi-
ties, so as to deduce, from an extra exportation of them, the re-
quisite means of payment ; and, if our specie was to perform
the office, the country would speedily have been exhausted, to a

^t. 36.] LOANS. 385

degree inconsistent with the support of its commerce and in-
dustry. The quantity of coin in the United States has never
been considerable enough for such an operation.

But this very state of things would have rendered the pro-
curing of the money, from domestic resources, impracticable.
These, it may be safely affirmed, are too limited for extensive
loans, of any considerable degree of permanency.

In the last place : The expedient of domestic loans would not
prevent the evil which is desired to be prevented. Foreigners
would, either in the first instance, bring their moneys to sub-
scribe them to the loans, or, they would afterwards purchase the
stock arising from them ; and, in either case, they would equally
draw away the money of the country on account of their interest
and principal. The only consequence of giving a disproportion-
ate rate of interest for domestic loans, would be, that our specie
would be carried away so much the faster.

Experience having shown, that nations sometimes pay more
regard to their external than to their internal credit, this con-
sideration co-operates with reasons of convenience, to induce
moneyed men abroad, to be content with a lower rate of interest,
stipulated to be paid in their own country, than if the place of
payment be in another country, making even a greater differ-
ance than is an equivalent for the expense and risk of obtaining
remittances.

The clear inference from these observations is, that, with re-
gard to the reimbursement of the foreign debt, no other expedi-
ent than that of foreign loans was practicable or eligible.

The utility of that part of the loans which has reference to
the purchase of the debt, has already been explained in certain
views. So far as their agency has been, hitherto, concerned in
that operation, it is a sufficient demonstration of the advantage
of the measure, to state, that the sum invested in purchases, up
to the period of the last report to Congress, has redeemed what
is equal to an annuity of 6.15 per cent., including, also, the ad-
vantage of sinking a capital more than 50 per cent, greater than
the sum expended.

A valuable profit will arise from the investment of the sums

386 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

on hand, either in a payment to the bank, or in the purchase of
stock. The liberation of an annuity of six per cent, can be
secured, while, upon a great part of the fund which is to effect
it, no more than 4| per cent, is payable, and less than 5£ upon
the other part. The mean of these rates being 5 per cent., an
annual saving of one per cent, may be effected, which, upon
2,000,000 of dollars, interest at 5 per cent., is equal to a capital
or gross sum of 400,000 dollars — an item certainly of no incon-
siderable consequence.

Against the advantages which are claimed in favor of the
loan, it is natural to place the loss of interest incident to the
delays which have attended their application to the purposes for
which they were obtained. This leads to an examination of the
cases of delay, their causes, the circumstances, if any, which
counterbalance them.

There are three instances of material delay : one respecting
the first loan, another the second loan, and a third, a part of the
two last loans.

The first loan, it will be seen, was not applied till a consider-
able time after its commencement. It has been already inti-
mated, that it was undertaken without previous authority from
this country. The motives to the measure are detailed in a
letter from our bankers, of the 25th of January, 1790, a copy of
which accompanies the communications herewith made by order
of the President. A regard to those motives led to an accept-
ance of the loan. Nor could it have been deemed an unfor-
tunate circumstance, that such an auxiliary to the operations of
the treasury had been previously prepared.

The laws authorizing the loans, passed the 4th and 12th of
August. As early as the 28th of that month, the acceptance
above mentioned was communicated, and the application of
1,500,000 florins, in a payment to France, directed. So far, no
time was lost, more than could not have been avoided.

But the bills, for the sum to be brought here, were not
drawn till some months after. This proceeded from an unwil-
lingness to risk the public credit, by drawing before there was a
certainty of funds to answer the drafts. It was not impossible

,Et.36.] loans. 387

that the great delay which had attended the passing of the law, for
borrowing, might have led the bankers to come to some arrange-
ment with the money lenders, for surrendering the moneys paid
in, and terminating the loan. Independent of this source of ap-
prehension, they had expressed themselves, in their letter com-
municating the step they had taken, to this effect: " To spare
the United States all possible advance of interest, while the
money shall remain unappropriated, we shall issue the recipisses
at the option of the buyers to take them so late as they please, on
the expectation the three millions would be placed in a few
months." This, though it announced an expectation that the
moneys would be paid in, in a few months, did not render the
event certain. And as the bankers appeared, from that precau-
tion, to have adverted to the idea of saving the United States an
advance of interest, it was supposable that they might have
found means still further to procrastinate the payments, or a con-
siderable part of them, till they had received a confirmation of
the loan. This policy would have been the more natural, as
they risked the loss of interest themselves, if the transaction
should not have been finally ratified.

Under such circumstances, I thought it most prudent to defer
the drafts till advice was received of the actual progress of the
loans. There was no room to hesitate between the loss of a
small sum in interest, and the danger of committing the public
credit by a premature operation.

The second case of delay relates to the second loan. It was
occasioned by a determination to suspend the orders for its ap-
plication till information was received of its having been con-
tracted for.

One motive to this determination has been already intimated,
namely : the yet untried and immature state of our fiscal arrange-
ments. The general reasoning, on this head, was strengthened
by an occurrence altogether unlooked for, which disclosed itself
on the 23d of August, 1790, eleven days after th'e rising of Con-
gress— an occurrence which they had not contemplated in their
pecuniary dispositions. I allude to the commencement of an
Indian war, which was announced in a letter from Governor St.

388 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 36.

Clair, dated on the above mentioned day, the progressive extent
and consequences of which could, of course, not be foreseen.
Under such circumstances, I judged it for the public interest and
safety to hold the resource, which the prospect of a loan pre-
sented, under the power of the treasury, till advice should be
received of the actual institution of the loan, with intention then
to dispose of it as should appear advisable under a better ma-
tured view of our pecuniary situation and prospects.

Hence the delay which attended the application of the second
loan ; the first, in fact, that originated subsequent to the laws for
borrowing. But, after advice had been received of its having
been set on foot, no time was lost in converting it, with due
dispatch, to its proper uses. There was only not an anticipation
of its application. As early as May 24th, 1791, I wrote a letter
to Mr. Short (a copy of which is in possession of the House),
empowering him to apply the proceeds of all future loans, as
they should accrue, in payments to France, except as to such
sums as therein were, or afterwards should be, previously and
specially reserved. This arrangement was calculated to obviate
the inconvenience of leaving the proceeds of the loans, for any
considerable time, unemployed. At the period of making it, and
not sooner, the public prospects appeared to me sufficiently
unfolded to render a general and permanent disposition free
from hazard. This instruction preceded, in due season, all the
loans subsequent to that of March, 1791.

Whatever delay, therefore, may have attended succeeding
investments for paying the French debt, is not attributable to
this Department : and I think it will not appear that any has
been incurred, in respect to the sums which were destined for
the public service here. In judging of this point, it will be
proper to observe, that a latitude of six months, for making their
payments, has been reserved to the money lenders, though with
liberty to make them earlier. It was, however, necessary for
the treasury to Vegulate its bills according to the possible delay,
lest the}*- should not meet adequate funds. The general policy
adopted, was, to let them fall upon the rear of each loan, this
giving a freer course for early payments to France, and best

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 389

conciliating a certainty of funds for answering the bills with as
little double interest as possible.

It will appear, that, notwithstanding the arrangement which
was made, a considerable time intervened between the two last
payments to France, while there were funds in hand waiting for
employment. It may be expected that the causes of this pro-
crastination, though, as I have said, not imputable to this Depart-
ment, should be unfolded to the House. Particular circumstances,
however, induce me to confine myself to stating generally, that
the delay proceeded, in the first place, from an expectation given
to Mr. Short, and kept up, from time to time, by the French
minister of marine, that a plan would be adopted, to which a
decree of the National Assembly was requisite, for converting a
large sum into supplies for St. Domingo ; which Mr. Short con-
cluded justly must come out of the foreign fund, and consequently
suspended its application in Europe. In the second place, from
a desire to settle, previously to further payments, a definitive
rule, by which the moneys paid should be liquidated and credited
to the United States.

Both the one and the other appears to have been procrasti-
nated from period to period, by the disordered state of French
affairs, and to have finally issued contrary to expectation. It
would be an unnecessary commitment of my opinion to declare
how far the delay appears to me to have been justified by the
causes ; but, being led by the occasion to take notice of it, I think
it improper to send it abroad, liable, perhaps, to misconstruction,
without observing that the inducements appear to me to have
been weighty ; that the delays naturally grew out of the circum-
stances ; and that I am entirely persuaded of the goodness of the
motives which governed. The correspondence before the Senate
contains the particulars of the transaction.

Having pointed out the instances of material delay which
happened, and the causes of them, it remains to state what cir-
cumstances there are to counterbalance the loss on that account.

These circumstances are of two kinds :

1. Gain by exchange in the sale of the bills drawn by the
treasury, and upon the higher rate of interest on the credits

390 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

which were given for those bills, than was payable on the fund
upon which they were drawn.

2. Gain by exchange on the payments to France.

According to my calculation, founded on the best informa-
tion extant, the real par of the metals, between the United States
and Amsterdam, makes a current guilder equal to 35T3/u nine-
tieths of a dollar. The lowest rate which has been obtained
for the bills, has been 36T4T ninetieths, with an allowance of sixty
days credit, without interest. Making a deduction for the in-
terest, the bills were still sold above the true par. In some
instances, they have been sold as high as 40 cents and 7 mills
per guilder, with interest for the whole term of the credit given.

The rate of interest, for the credits allowed upon the bills,
was six per cent. ; the mean interest paid upon the fund, five per
cent. ; producing, consequently, a gain of one per cent.

With regard to the payments to France, if the current rate of
exchange between Paris and Amsterdam, at the moment of each
remittance or payment, were to govern, a large profit would
result to the United States ; but certain equitable considerations
will produce deductions, which will greatly lessen this advantage;
yet, making a liberal allowance for them, there is ground to cal-
culate that a saving may be made in this particular, more than
sufficient to indemnify for the loss of interest.

Hence any positive advantage which will have been otherwise
gained will probably be undiminished by that circumstance.

I proceed, in the next place, to state the views which pre-
vailed, respecting the sums that have been from time to time
drawn for, the purposes they have hitherto answered, and the
further advantages to be expected from the measure.

The direct object of all the sums drawn for, prior to July,
1792, was the purchase of the debt. A collateral consideration,
which operated in the first stages of drawing, has also been men-
tioned. It has likewise been stated, that the early purchases of
the debt are to be ascribed to the instrumentality of the fund
derived from the loans. This idea shall now be explained.

Two mistakes appear to have influenced the impressions which
have been entertained in relation, directly or indirectly, to this

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 391

subject. First, it seems to have been all along forgotten, that a
considerable part of the duties is always outstanding, on account
of the credits which are given ; whence the assertion, that the
sinking fund has continually overflowed from domestic resources.
Second, it seems to have been taken for granted that the pro-
ceeds of the loans have remained apart, distinct from the mass
of the money in the treasury ; while, in truth, the course of
the business has been to turn them over to the treasurer, by
warrants, as they have been received, so as to form a part of the
aggregate, from time to time, appearing in his hands and in his
accounts. The banks have been the agents employed for selling
the bills. Sometimes warrants, on account, have issued upon
them, for the sums accruing from the sales ; at other times the
warrants have been deferred till the whole proceeds of any
parcel have been received, and the accounts of the bank settled
at the treasury ; as the state of the treasury has happened to
render the one or the other most convenient.

The banks of North America and New- York were the agents
for the sale of all the bills which were sold prior to April, 1792,
amounting to 1,006,526 dollars and 36 cents. Of this sum,
361,391 dollars and 34 cents were passed over to the treasury, in
1791; 327,136 dollars and 22 cents, in March, 1792; and 140,000
dollars, in June following; the residue having remained, as here-
tofore stated, in deposit with the Bank of North America, upon
a special consideration. This is exclusive of certain bills furnish-
ed for the use of the Department of State, amounting to 78,766
dollars and 67 cents.

The remainder of the bills which have been sold, beginning
in April, 1792, were sold by the Bank of the United States, and
its branches at New-York and Baltimore. The accounts of the
sales had just been made out for settlement when the present
inquiry began, but warrants had not yet issued for placing the
proceeds in the treasury. It will be remarked, that, from the
terms of credit allowed, they only began to be receivable in
October last, the 26th day of which month, the first return made
by the bank shows a sum of 127,225 dollars and 53 cents receiv-
ed, and that the collection had not been completed when the
accounts of the sales were rendered.

392 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

There are different views of the subject, which will enable
the House to perceive that the possession of the fund in question
was necessary to enable the treasury to furnish the means of
making all the purchases which were made prior to July, 1792.

It is true, that there was a surplus of revenue to the end of
the year 1790, equal to 1,374,656 dollars and 40 cents, which
was appropriated to purchases of the debt; and, from the credits
then given upon the duties, this surplus would naturally come
into the treasury, in the course of the year 1791.

But the Legislature, foreseeing that the revenue of 1791, from
the same cause, could not actually be in the treasury, within that
year, to face the appropriations upon it (which, it is to be observ-
ed, were nearly commensurate with the fund), inserted a clause
in the law appropriating the surplus of 1790 to the purchase of
the debt, which authorized a reservation of so much of that
surplus as might be necessary to make the payments of interest
during 1791, in case of a deficiency in the receipts into the
treasury, on account of the current revenue of the year.

It will appear to the House, upon a recurrence to the
treasurer's quarterly account, ending the 30th September, 1791,
that the balance of cash, then on hand, was 662,233 dollars and
99 cents.

At that time, there had been paid into the treasury, upon
warrants, from the proceeds of the bills drawn upon the foreign
fund, $361,391 dollars and 34 cents ; consequently, the balance
of cash, had it not been for that auxiliary, would have been only
300,842 dollars and 65 cents, considering the whole balance in
the treasury -as representing an equal sum of the proceeds of the
bills.

Even in a time of complete peace, in a country where a small
extent of moneyed capital forbids a reliance upon large pecuniary
aids to be suddenly obtained, a prudent administrator of the
finances could not feel entirely at ease with a less sum, at all times
in the certain command of the treasury, than 500,000 dollars, for
meeting current demands and extra exigencies, which, in the
affairs of a nation, are every moment to be expected. But, with a
war actually on hand, and a possibility of its extension to a more

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 393

serious length, he would be inexcusable in leaving himself with
a less sum at command, unless from an impracticability of doing
otherwise. It would be always his duty to combine two consi-
derations— the chance of extra calls for money, and a possibility
of some failure in the receipts which were expected. Derange-
ments of various kinds may happen in the commercial circle,
capable of interrupting, for a time, the punctual course of pay-
ments to the treasury. It is necessary, to a certain extent, to be
prepared for such casualties.

But, during the year 1791, there was a circumstance which
operated as an additional reason for keeping a respectable sum
always on hand. The loans of the domestic debt were going on,
till the last of September of that year ; while, at the same time,
the interest was in a course of payment. It was, therefore,
always uncertain what sum would be payable at the end of a
quarter, this depending on the eagerness or backwardness of the
public creditors in bringing forward their subscriptions, or their
claims as non-subscribers. The omissions, at the end of a pre-
ceding quarter, might be expected to fall upon a subsequent one ;
and it was necessary to be prepared for that possibility ; of course,
to keep in hand a larger fund for contingent demands. This
necessity extended to the termination of the period for receiving
subscriptions ; because the treasury was to be prepared on the
supposition that the whole of the domestic debt would then be
in a state to receive interest, either as subscribed or unsubscribed.
But this did not, in fact, happen. A part of the sums, which
were presented, were crowded into the last days of the quarter,
and were too late for a dividend. A considerable sum remained,
ultimately, in a form which, according to the terms of the pro-
vision, did not entitle it to interest, either as subscribed or as
unsubscribed debt.

Hence the cash in the treasury, on the 1st of October, 1791,
was, by a considerable sum, greater than was to have been
counted upon, or than might have happened.

The conclusion which results from the foregoing observations,
is this : that the purchases which preceded the 1st of October,
1791, and which amounted to 699,984 dollars and 23 cents in

c 26

394 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

specie, could not have been hazarded, but for the aid of the sums
which had actually accrued from the proceeds of the bills, and
the expectation of those which were to accrue from the yet
uncollected proceeds of others.

Had it not been for this aid, the treasury would have been
left more bare than was consistent with the security of public
credit and the certain execution of the public service.

There is, however, a later period in the state of the treasury,
which will more completely illustrate the idea intended to be
established. This is the 2d of July, 1792.

On that day, the balance of cash in the treasury, comprehend-
ing the cleposites in all the banks, and including a sum of 200,000
dollars, received on loan, of the Bank of the United States, to-
gether with a sum of 220,900 dollars in bills drawn upon domestic
funds, the proceeds of which had not been received, was 623,133
dollars and 61 cents.

Prior to this period, a further sum of 545,902 dollars and 89
cents, arising from the sales of foreign bills, had been placed in
the treasury, by warrants, making, with the former sums placed
there, from the same source, 907,294 dollars and 23 cents.

Had it not been for this auxiliary, and that of the loan from
the bank, the treasury would then have been in arrear 484,160
dollars and 62 cents. It, therefore, necessarily follows, that, for
the purchases to that period, which amounted, in specie, to
942,672 dollars and 54 cents, at least 484,160 dollars and 62
cents must have come from the foreign fund.

But, when it is considered, for the reasons which have been
stated, and which will hereafter be fortified by others, tending as
I conceive to give them conclusive force, that the sum in the
treasury at the period in question, was barely what ought to
have been there for safety, and for a due supply of current
demands ; it will follow that the whole, or nearly the whole of
the purchases, which were made previous to July, 1792, were
made by the means or instrumentality of the foreign fund.

A similar view, extended to the subsequent quarter, will
exhibit this point in a still clearer light. The balance then in
the treasury, including a further loan from the bank of 100,000
dollars, was only 420,914 dollars and 51 cents.

^t. 36.] LOANS. 395

What, then, it may be asked, became of the surplus revenue
to the end of the year 1790? what was the office performed by
that fund during the period in question ?

The answer is, that it served exactly the purpose which was
anticipated by the Legislature. It came in aid of the current
receipts for satisfying the current expenditures of 1791, with
particular reference to the interest of the debt. This will easily
be comprehended when it is recollected that the appropriations
made during 1791, upon the revenues of that year, and some
small surplusses of antecedent appropriations, amounted to three
millions six hundred and thirty-seven thousand and fifty-eight
dollars and thirty-four cents ; that the revenues themselves
amounted to no more than three millions five hundred and fifty-
three thousand one hundred and ninty-five dollars and eighteen
cents ; and that, at the end of 1791, there were outstanding, in
bonds for the duties on imports, besides the chief part of the
proceeds of the duties on spirits distilled within the United
States, then also uncollected, 1,828,269 dollars and 28 cents.

On this point, likewise, of the surplus of revenue to the end
of 1790, it is presumable a misapprehension has been entertained.
It seems to have been supposed, that that surplus, as well as the
proceeds of the foreign fund, have been kept separate and
distinct from the common mass of the moneys appearing from
time to time to be in the treasury.

It has been already observed, that this was not the case with
regard to the foreign fund. It is now proper to add, that it has
not been the case, either, with regard to the surplus in question.
That surplus, as received by the collectors of the customs, has
regularly passed into the treasury, and appears in the quarterly
accounts of the Treasurer for the periods to which they relate.

It is the course of the treasury, resulting from the constitution
of the department, for all moneys from whatever source, to be
brought into it, to constitute an aggregate, subject to the disposi-
tions, prescribed by law. The moneys to be employed in the
sinking fund, have consequently only been separated, as they
have been called for, for actual investment, The only exception
to this, relates to that part of the sinking fund which is created

396 HAMILTON'S WORKS. {Mr. 36.

by the interest of the debt purchased. This has been included
in the quarterly dividends, and covered by the warrants in favor
of the cashiers of the banks for paying those dividends, after
which, they have passed into a distinct account, in the books of
the bank opened with Samuel Meredith, as agent to the commis-
sioners of the sinking fund.

To the foregoing representation, it may seem an objection,
that the purchases to the end of 1791 appear to have been carried
to the account of the surplus at the end of 1790.

The ultimate form which it has been judged convenient to
give to the transaction, in the accounts of the treasury, cannot
change what was truly the course of facts. The proceeds of
the above mentioned surplus and of the foreign loans, formed
together the fund for purchases. In the accounts of the treasury,
the thing was susceptible of various modifications at pleasure.
The two parts of the fund might have been united in one
account, or divided into distinct accounts. Being separated,
moneys issued for purchases might have been legally carried to
either of them.

It was judged most advisable, in the forms of the treasury, to
place the purchases to the end of 1791, to the account of the
domestic fund, because it was calculated to give greater latitude
and energy to the sinking fund. Had not this course been
pursued, the business would have taken the following shape :
the foreign fund, to the extent of the purchases, would have
been exhausted : the whole, or the greater part of the surplus of
1790, would have continued wrapt up in the expenditure of 1791,
not liable to be liberated till the receipts into the treasury should
yield a correspondent surplus beyond the actual disbursements —
which could not have been the case, while the war with the
Indians continues to call for extraordinary expenditures.

From the form into which the thing has been thrown, the
foreign fund has been set free to be applied to further purchases ;
and a necessity produced of anticipating the outstanding duties,
by temporary loans for the current service.

I trust there can be no doubt that the course pursued was
regular, and within the discretion of the Department. I hope,

Mr. 36.] LOANS. 397

also, that it will appear to the House to have been the most
eligible. The expediency of giving the earliest and greatest
possible extent and activity to whatever concerns the sinking
fund, will, it is presumed, unite all opinions.

What has been said hitherto respecting the employment of
the foreign fund, is applicable only to that part of it which was
drawn for, prior to April, 1792 ; the residue standing in a dif-
ferent situation, and requiring a separate examination.

From the statement which has been given, it may be perceived
that the fund in question has neither been idle nor useless. A
confirmation of this will be found in the following details :

The whole sum successively received on account of Amster-
dam bills, up to the 17th of August, 1791, was 361,391 dollars
and 34 cents. The amount of the moneys invested in purchases
prior to that day, was 350,000 dollars, chiefly by anticipation of
those receipts.

The whole sum successively received on account of Amster-
dam bills, from August 17, 1791, to March 1, 1792, was 408,722
dollars and 69 cents. The amount of the moneys invested in
purchases between those periods, was 349,984 dollars and 23
cents, chiefly in the month of September, and by anticipation of
those receipts.

The whole sum successively received on account of Amster-
dam bills, subsequent to the 1st of March, and prior to July,
1792, was 235,412 dollars and 33 cents. The amount of the
moneys invested in purchases between those periods, was 242,688
dollars and 31 cents.

It was stated in my first letter, that 177,998 dollars and 80
cents, of the proceeds of the foreign bills, were left in deposit
with the bank of North America ; and in a note upon statement
B, accompanying that letter, the occasion of it was shewn to be
an advance without interest, made by that bank, for the use
of the Department of War ; which could not yet be covered,
in consequence of a doubt still remaining, whether the fund
appropriated for satisfying that object was adequate to it — the
sufficiency of that fund depending in part on certain unexpended
residues of antecedent appropriations, which it was expected

398 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

would not be finally necessary for satisfying the purposes of
those appropriations.

It is to be remarked, that the delay of the employment of
this part of the proceeds of the foreign fund, has been compen-
sated by a saving of interest on the sum advanced by the bank,
which otherwise must have been procured upon a loan with an
allowance of interest, probably at the time of the advance, at a
rate of 6 per cent.; so that, even in this particular, the fund,
though temporarily suspended from its destination, has not been
idle or unproductive. I reserve for another place some additional
observations and statements, which will be calculated to shew
that opportunities of investing the moneys at any time on hand,
applicable to purchases of the debt, were not suffered to pass
unimproved, and that as much in this respect was done as the
state of the treasury and the state of the market would permit.

It has been said, that a distinct examination would be
proper with regard to the bills which have been drawn upon
the foreign fund, subsequent to March, 1792. I proceed now to
this examination.

The expediency of what has been, in this respect, done,
seems to have been called in question, under a suggestion, that
an application of the fund to purchases had ceased to be advan-
tageous.

The drawing of these bills has been at different periods
influenced by various considerations. A leading motive was
always the purchase of the debt. And a correct view of the
subject will, I doubt not, satisfy the House, that the measure was
recommended by an adequate prospect of advantage.

It is to be observed, that all these drafts were predicated up-
on the two four per cent, loans ; being, as already stated, real
4^ per cent, loans.

There was good ground to presume, that opportunities would
be found of investing the moneys drawn for in purchases which
would yield at least 5 per cent, with a possibility of doing still
better. The difference of h per cent, was alone an object of im-
portance ; but it would be coupled with the further benefit of
reducing a principal sum materially exceeding the sum invested.

Mi. 36.] LOANS. 399

When the three per cents are purchased at 12s. in the pound,
there is not only a redemption of an annuity of 5 per cent, but a
sinking of a capital of 20s. for 12. And though this might not be
material, if the market rate of interest should never fall below 5,
because in that case the three per cents might always be purchased
at the same rate ; yet if it should at any time happen, that interest
fell below 5, it would be a gain to the Government to have pur-
chased at 5, in exact proportion to the difference between 5 and
the then market rate. Add to this, that the 3 per cents have
generally a value in the market more than proportioned to the in-
come they produce, which arises from the capacity of the capital to
appreciate even to par. These observations are also for the most
part applicable to the deferred, with this circumstance in addi-
tion, that, when interest begins to be payable on that species of
stock, the money invested, and which, in the mean time, would
have produced five, would then begin to produce to the Govern-
ment 6 per cent, with the advantage of having anticipated the
redemption of a species of stock of right only gradually redeem-
able. Combining these considerations, it appears to be clearly
and even eminently for the interest of the Government to pur-
chase within the limit suggested, with a fund which does not
cost more than 44 per cent.

That this was the view of the subject which governed, is de-
ducible not only from the circumstances of the fact, but from
my letter of the 2d of April, 1792, to Mr. Short, announcing
my intention to draw, in which I assign as the ground of that
intention, " that I considered it for the interest of the United
States to prosecute purchases of the public debt with moneys bor-
rowed on the terms of the last loan," meaning the loan of the
1st of January, 1792, at 4 per cent.

If the event be taken as a criterion, the anticipation will be
more than justified, the present juncture offering an opportunity
for purchases peculiarly advantageous.

But, without insisting on a state of things occasioned by ex-
traordinary circumstances, it was morally certain that the common
course of events would render the operation a beneficial one.
And it would not argue peculiar foresight, if a calculation was

400 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

even made on the effect which the situation and probable pro-
gress of affairs in Europe might produce upon our market. A
pretty general war there, bj extending the demand for money,
would naturally divert from our stocks a portion of what might
otherwise be employed upon them, and effect injuriously their
prices. It is, also, a familiar fact, that, during the winter, in
this country, there is always a scarcity of money in the towns —
a circumstance calculated to damp the prices of stock.

A consideration, which collaterally influenced the drawing of
the latter bills, was the situation of the French colony of St.
Domingo.

This not only produced an early application for a considera-
ble advance, which was promised, but it was to be foreseen, that
still further aids would be indispensable.

Indeed, sundry letters from Mr. Short, the first dated at Parisj
the 28th December, 1791, announced the daily probability of an
arrangement, requiring an advance here of 800,000 dollars for
the use of that colony. A sum of 4,000,000 of livres has in fact
been sucessively stipulated for that object, the greatest part of
which has been actually furnished.

It is known that these supplies could proceed from no other
source than the foreign fund. ■

The payment to the foreign officers of near 200,000 dollars,
by which an interest of 6 per cent, would be released, was
another object for which provision was to be made out of the
same fund.

These several purposes conspired with the object of purchas-
ing the debt to induce the latitude of drawing, which took
place.

But there was still a further inducement which came in aid
of the others. The time for reimbursing the first instalment of
the two millions of dollars due to the bank was approaching,
when, by positive stipulation, the Government would have to
pay two hundred thousand dollars, for which there was no do_
mestic fund that could be spared from the current exigencies,
I thought it incumbent upon this department to have an eye to
placing within the reach of the Legislature the means of fulfill-

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 401

ing this engagement ; the object of which bore a strict analogy
to that for which the two millions authorized by the act making
provision for the reduction of the public debt were to be bor-
rowed.

I did not even scruple to take into the calculation, that if,
from the extent of the draughts upon the foreign fund, there
should happen to be found on hand a larger sum than was ne-
cessary for, or could be advantageously employed .towards the
several purposes which were the immediate and direct objects of
the operation, the surplus would facilitate to the Government a
measure manifestly and unequivocally beneficial — an additional
payment to the bank, on account of a debt, upon which an an-
nual interest of 6 per cent, was payable ; a measure by which a
certain saving of one per cent, to the extent of the payment that
might be made would be accomplished.

The possibility of this application of the fund afforded a
perfect assurance, that the public interest could in no event fail
to be promoted.

I felt myself the more at liberty to do it, because it did not in-
terfere with a complete fulfillment of the public engagements in
regard to the foreign debt. It could be done consistently with
a full reimbursement of all arrears and instalments which had
accrued on account of that debt.

The detail which has been given, comprehends a full expos-
ition of the views and motives that have regulated the conduct
of this Department in relation to those parts of the proceeds of
the foreign loans which have been transferred to the United
States, except as to the last sum of one million two hundred and
thirty seven thousand five hundred florins, directed to be drawn
for on the 30th of November last ; in regard to which, circum-
stances of a special nature co-operated, as is explained in a note
upon the copy of my letter of the 26th of that month, to Mr,
Short, forming a part of the communication herewith made by
order of the president of the United States

The House will perceive, that the variety of matter com-
prised in this letter has not been collected and digested into its
present form, without much labor and unavoidable expense of

402 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 36.

time. I trust they will be sensible, that no delay has been un-
necessarily incurred. It is certain that I have made every ex-
ertion in my power, at the hazard of my health, to comply with
the requisitions of the House as early as possible. And it has
even been done with more expedition than was desirable to se-
cure the perfect accuracy of the communication.

Yet I have still to regret that some part of the subject must
remain to be presented in a subsequent letter. To lessen, how-
ever, the inconvenience of this further delay, I shall transmit
with the present letter, the statements required by the first and
second of the resolutions of the 23d of January, which will be
found in the schedules herewith, marked No. I to V. ; those re-
quired by the last of the resolutions having been already for-
warded.

There remain, however, some particulars to complete the
information contemplated by those resolutions, that must be re-
served for another communication. This I may venture to as-
sure the House will not be deferred beyond the present, or at
least the first day of the ensuing week.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

The Honorable the Speaker

of the House of Bepresentatives.

No. I. — A Statement of the appropriation for reducing the Public Debt, con-
stituted by the Act of Congress passed on the 12th day of August, 1790.

No. II. — A Statement of the application of the funds drawn on the appropriation
of the surplus of duties to the end of the year 1790, for the reduction of the Public
Debt.

No. III.— A Statement of the application of the Fund constituted by the Act of
Congress, passed on the 8th of May, 1792, for reducing the Public Debt, arising
from the interest on the sums of said debt purchased, redeemed, and paid into the
Treasury of the United States.

No. IV. — Quarterly Statement of cash in the hands of the Treasurer of the U. S.i
for the year 1791.

No. V.— Statement of cash in the Treasury, during the year 1792, showing the
balance on hand half monthly.— State Papers— Finance, Vol. I., 210 to 214.

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 403

Treasury Department, February 13, 1793.

Sir:

In obedience to an order of the President of the United
States, founded upon the requests contained in two resolutions
of the House of Kepresentatives of the 23d of January last, I
have the honor to lay before the House —

1. The several papers numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, being copies of
the authorities under which loans have been negotiated, pursuant
to the acts of the 4th and 12th of August, 1790.

2. Sundry letters, as per list at foot, from the Secretary of
the Treasury to William Short, Esq , and to Wilhem and J. Wil-
links, N. and J. Van Staphorst and Hubbard, being copies of the
authorities respecting the application of the moneys borrowed.

3. Statement A, showing the names of the persons by whom,
and to whom, the respective payments of the French debt have
been made in Europe, specifying' the dates of the respective pay-
ments, and the sums. With regard to the precise dates of
the respective drafts which may have been drawn, or orders
which may have been given by Mr. Short to our bankers,
for making those payments, they cannot be furnished, not being
known at the treasury. It is, however, to be inferred, from the
correspondence and circumstances, that they preceded but a short
time the respective payments to which they related.

Statement B, showing by whom the payments have been
made, on account of the Dutch loans, the dates, .and the sums.
As to the persons to whom the payments were made, no specifi-
cation is practicable, these being the numerous subscribers to the
several loans, their agents or assignees. It has never been con-
sidered, either under the former or present Government, as inter-
esting to the treasury to know who those individuals were.
Indeed, by the transfers always going on, they are continually
changing. The demand for a communication of their names
would have been unprecedented, and the disclosure, from time
to time, would have been attended with a great deal of useless,
but expensive trouble.

The statement desired, in reference to the Spanish debt, can-
not be furnished. In a note upon statement No. 1, of my

404 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

late report concerning foreign loans, it is mentioned, " that
advice had been received that the payment of this debt was
going on, though it had not been completed." This appears by
letters from Mr. Short, now before the Senate, dated August
30th, and October 9th and 22d. No advice of the completion of
the payment has been since received. All that is known is, that
our bankers were procuring bills under orders from Mr. Short,
for the purpose of remitting to Spain the sum necessary to dis-
charge her debt.

There will be seen a difference in the statement now present-
ed, and No. 1 of my late report, concerning foreign loans, as to
the date of the last payment to France. In one, the 9th of Au-
gust is mentioned, in the other, the 6th of September. The fact
is, that it had its inception some time in August, but was not
perfected till the 6th of September. Mr. Morris, who had been
charged by Mr. Short with endeavoring to adjust, with the
French treasury, the rule by which the payments that had been,
and might be made, should be liquidated into livres, having regard
to certain equitable considerations, made an arrangement with it,
provisionally, for the payment of 1,641,250* florins, and wrote
to Mr. Short, requesting that he would direct the payment to be
completed. There appear to have been two letters from Mr.
Morris on the subject, one dated the 6th, the other the 9th of
August. But Mr. Short, for reasons which he explains in his
correspondence, now before the Senate, did not consummate the
payment till the 6th of September. One statement has reference
to the beginning, the other, to the conclusion of the affair.

I am instructed by the President to observe, that there are
some circumstances in the communications now made, which
would render a public perusal of them not without inconvenience.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, sir,

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
The Hon. the Speaker of the

House of Representatives.
* 1,625,000 Banco.

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 405

No. 1.

George Washington, President of the United States of America, to
the Secretary of the Treasury for the time being.

By virtue of the several acts, the one, entitled "An act mak-
ing provision for the debt of the United States," and the other,
entitled " An act making provision for the reduction of the
public debt," I do hereby authorize and empower you, by your-
self, or any other person or persons, to borrow, on behalf of the
United States, within the said States, or elsewhere, a sum, or
sums, not exceeding, in the whole, fourteen millions of dollars,
and to make, or cause to be made, for that purpose, such con-
tract, or contracts, as shall be necessary, and for the interest of
the said States, subject to the restrictions and limitations in the
said several acts contained ; and, for so doing, this shall be your
sufficient warrant.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the United
States to be hereunto affixed.

Given under my hand, at the city of New York, this twenty-
eighth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thou-
sand seven hundred and ninety.

George Washington.

By the President:

Th: Jefferson.

No. 2.

George Washington, President of the United States of America, to
the Secretary of the Treasury for the time being.

Having thought fit to commit to you the charge of borrow-
ing, on behalf of the United States, a sum, or sums, not exceed-
ing, in the whole, fourteen millions of dollars, pursuant to the
several acts, the one, entitled " An act making provision for the
debt of the United States," the other, entitled "An act making
provision for the reduction of the public debt."

406 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

I do hereby make known to you, that, in the execution of
the said trust, you are to observe and follow the orders and
directions following, viz : Except where otherwise especially
directed by me, you shall employ, in the negotiation of any loan
or loans, which may be made in any foreign country, William
Short, Esq. You shall borrow, or cause to be borrowed, on the
best terms which shall be found practicable, (and within the limi-
tations prescribed by law as to time of re-payment and rate
of interest) such sum or sums, as shall be sufficient to discharge,
as well all instalments, or parts of the principal of the foreign
debt which now are due, or shall become payable to the end of
the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, as all
interest and arrears of interest, which now are, or shall become
due, in respect to the said debt, to the same end of the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one. And you shall apply,
or cause to be applied, the moneys which shall be so borrowed,
with all convenient despatch, to the payment of the said instal-
ments, and parts of the principal and interest, and arrears of the
interest of the said debt. You shall not extend the amount of
the loan which you shall make, or cause to be made, beyond the
sum which shall be necessary for completing such payment,
unless it can be done upon terms more advantageous to the
United States than those upon which the residue of the said debt
shall stand or be. But, if the said residue, or any part of the
same, can be paid off by new loans, upon terms of advantage to
the United States, you shall cause such further loans as may be
requisite to that end, to be made, and the proceeds thereof to be
applied accordingly. And for carrying into effect the objects
and purposes aforesaid, I do, hereby, further empower you to
make, or cause to be made, with whomsoever it may concern,
such contract or contracts, being of a nature relative thereto, as
shall be found needful, and conducive to the interest of the
United States.

If any negotiation with any prince or state to whom any part
of the said debt may be due, should be requisite, the same
shall be carried on through the person, who, in capacity of
minister, charge des affaires or otherwise, now is, or hereafter

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 407

shall be charged with transacting the affairs of the United States,
with such prince or state ; for which purpose I shall direct the
Secretary of State, with whom you are in this behalf to consult
and concert, to co-operate with you.

Given under my hand at the city of New York, this twenty-
eighth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thou-
sand seven hundred and ninety.

Geo. Washington.

No. 3.

To all to whom these presents shall come :

Whereas by an act passed the fourth day of August, in this
present year, entitled "An act making provision for the debt of
the United States," it is, among other things, enacted, that the
President of the United States be authorized to cause to be bor-
rowed, on behalf of the United States, a sum or sums, not exceed-
ing in the whole twelve millions of dollars, and that so much of
that sum as may be necessary to the discharge of the said arrears
and instalments, and (if it can be effected upon terms advanta-
geous to the United States) to the paying off the whole of the
said foreign debt, be appropriated solely to those purposes ; and
that the President be, moreover, further authorized to cause to
be made, such other contracts respecting the said debt as shall be
found for the interest of the said States : Provided nevertheless,
that no engagement nor contract shall be entered into, which
shall preclude the United States from reimbursing any sum or
sums borrowed, within fifteen years after the same shall have
been lent or advanced :

And whereas, by another act, passed the twelfth day of Au-
gust, in the present year, entitled "An act making provision for
the reduction of the public debt," it is also, among other things,
enacted, that the President of the United States be authorized to
cause to be borrowed, on behalf of the United States, a sum, or
sums, not exceeding in the whole two millions of dollars, at an
interest not exceeding five per cent :

408 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

And whereas, by virtue of the said several acts, the President
of the United States of America hath been pleased, by a certain
commission or warrant, under his hand, to authorize and empower
the Secretary of the Treasury for the time being, by himself, or any
other person or persons, to borrow, on behalf of the United States,
within the said States, or elsewhere, a sum, or sums, not exceed-
ing, in the whole, fourteen millions of dollars, and to make, or
cause to be made, for that purpose, such contract or contracts as
shall be necessary, and for the interest of the said States, subject to
the restrictions and limitations in the said several acts contained :
And whereas Messrs. Wilhem and Jan Willink, and Nicholaas
and Jacob Van Staphorst, and Hubbard, have, by letter, bearing
date the twenty-fifth day of January, 1790, communicated to
me, that they have entered into a certain provisional agreement
or arrangement, for a loan of three millions of florins, for the
use of the United States of America, bearing an interest of five
per centum per annum, and reimbursable by yearly instalments,
of six hundred thousand florins, commencing in the year one
thousand eight hundred and one, and ending in the year one
thousand eight hundred and five : And whereas it appears to
me for the interest of the said United States to accept the
said loan :

Now, therefore, be it known : That I, Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for the time
being, by virtue of the power and authority in me vested, by the
said President of the United States, and in his name, and on be-
half of the United States of America, and to their use, do, by
these presents, accept, agree to, ratify, and confirm, the loan
aforesaid, provisionally undertaken by the said Wilhem and Jan
Willink, and Nicholaas and Jacob Van Staphorst, and Hubbard.
And I do hereby, authorize and empower the said Wilhem and
Jan Willink, and Nicholaas and Jacob Van Staphorst, and Hub-
bard, or, in case of the death of any of them, the survivors, to
borrow, on behalf of the United States, either by way of confir-
mation of the said . provisional agreement, or otherwise, as need
may be, a sum, or sums, not exceeding in the whole, three mil-
lions of florins, subject to the restrictions and limitations in the

jEt. 36.] LOANS. 409

said several acts contained and above recited ; and for that pur-
pose, in the name of the said President, on behalf of the United
States of America, to execute such contracts, obligations, and
instruments, as shall be necessary, and conformable to usage, in
the like cases, and the faith of the United States to pledge for
the performance of the terms thereof ; and if the same shall be
deemed requisite, to stipulate for the ratification thereof by the
President of the United States ; hereby giving and granting to
the said Wilhelm and Jan Willink, and Nicholaas and Jacob
Van Staphorst, and Hubbard, and the survivors of them, all my
power and authority, in the premises, and ratifying, allowing,
and confirming, whatsoever they shall lawfully do therein.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the treasury to
be affixed to these presents, and have hereunto subscribed
my hand, the twenty-eighth day of August, in the year of
our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

No. 4.

To all to whom these presents shall come :

Whereas, by an act passed the fourth day of August, in this
present year, entitled " An act making provision for the debt of
the United States," it is, among other things, enacted, that the
President of the United States be authorized to cause to be bor-
rowed, on behalf of the United States, a sum, or sums, not ex-
ceeding in the whole twelve millions of dollars, and that so much
of that sum as may be necessary to the discharge of the said
arrears and instalments, and (if it can be effected upon terms
advantageous to the United States) to the paying off the whole
of the said foreign debt, be appropriated solely to those pur-
poses ; and that the President be, moreover, further authorized
to cause to be made, such other contracts respecting the said

c 27

410 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 'S6.

debt, as shall be found for the interest of the said States : Pro-
vided nevertheless, that no engagement nor contract shall be
entered into, which shall preclude the United States from reim-
bursing any sum, or sums borrowed, within fifteen years after
the same shall have been lent or advanced :

And whereas, by another act, passed the twelfth day of Au-
gust, in the present year, entitled " An act making provision for
the reduction of the public debt," it is, also, among other things,
enacted that the President of the United States be authorized
to cause to be borrowed, on behalf of the United States, a sum
or sums not exceeding in the whole two millions of dollars, at an
interest not exceeding five per cent. :

And whereas, by virtue of the said several acts, the Presi-
dent of the United States of America hath been pleased, by a
certain commission or warrant, under his hand, to authorize and
empower the Secretary of the Treasury for the time being, by
himself, or any other person or persons, to borrow, on behalf of
the United States, within the said States, or elsewhere, a sum or
sums, not exceeding, in the whole, fourteen millions of dollars,
and to make, or cause to be made, for that purpose, such con-
tract or contracts as shall be necessary, and for the interest of
the said States, subject to the restrictions and limitations in the
said several acts contained :

Now, therefore, know ye : That I, Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for the time being,
by virtue of the said commission, power or warrant, of the Pre-
sident of the United States of America, have authorized and
empowered, and, by these presents, do authorize and empower
William Short, charge des affaires of the United States at the
court of France, to borrow, on behalf of the United States, in
any part of Europe, a sum or sums, not exceeding, in the whole,
fourteen millions of dollars, and to make, or cause to be made,
for that purpose, such contract or contracts as shall be necessary,
and for the interest of the said States ; subject to the restrictions
and limitations in the said several acts contained ; and for so
doing this shall be his sufficient warrant.

Mt. 36.] PUBLIC FUNDS. 411

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the treasury
to be affixed to these presents, and have hereunto sub-
scribed my hand, the first day of September, in the year
of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety.

Alexander Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

A. — Statement showing the dates and sums of the respective payments which
have been made on account of the debt clue to France, out of the Dutch and Ant-
werp loans ; and by whom, and to whom, the moneys were remitted or paid.

B. — Statement showing the respective payments which have been made by
William and John Willink. Nicholas and Jacob Von Staphorst, and Hubbard, in
Amsterdam, to individuals, upon the several loans made in Holland, on account of
the United States.

PUBLIC FUNDS.

Communicated to the Senate, February 14, 1793.

Treasury Department, February 14, 1793.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit, herewith, in further pursuance
of the order of the Senate, of the .23d of January past, three
several statements, marked A, B, C.

A being a general account of revenue and appropriations :
exhibiting, on one side, all the income of the United States,
except from the proceeds of loans, foreign and domestic, to the
end of the year 1792 ; on the other, the respective amounts of all
the appropriations which have been made by law, to the same
period.

B being a general account of appropriations and expenditures
to the same end of the year 1792. This statement takes up the
excess of the appropriations beyond the expenditure, to the end
of the year 1791, as contained in the account of receipts and
expenditures, reported to the House of Eepresentatives during
the present session ; and, including all the subsequent appropri-
ations and expenditures to the end of 1792, shows the balance
unsatisfied of each head of appropriation.

412 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

C being an explanatory statement, for the purpose of showing
a conformity between the aggregate of the balances of appropria-
tions unsatisfied, and the balance of the public income beyond
the public expenditure, to the end of the year 1792, as repre-
sented in the statement B, heretofore reported.

It will be observed, that the most considerable item among
the balances of appropriations, is for interest on the public debt
• — amounting to one million three hundred and ninety-five thou-
sand eight hundred and twenty-four dollars and sixty-five cents.
This happens in three ways. 1st. The interest on the foreign
part of the debt has been paid in Europe, out of the proceeds of
the loans ; the sum paid will consequently require to be replaced
out of the domestic funds, and will operate as if an equal sum
had been transferred here by drafts. 2d. The payment of inter-
est to certain States, upon the difference between their quotas of
the assumed debt, and the sums subscribed upon the first loan,
has been suspended, in consequence of the opening of the second
loan, to avoid a double payment of interest, first to the States
and next to the subscribers, which might otherwise happen. 8d.
There is a part of the public debt which has continued in a form
that has not entitled the holders, under the existing laws, to
receive interest either as subscribers or non-subscribers.

There are certain arrears of interest, on the part of the debt
entitled to interest, which did not come into the accounts of the
year 1792.

This balance of interest, however, will be a real future expen-
diture, as, indeed, will be the case with regard to most of the
other balances of appropriations. There will be surpluses, but
these surpluses cannot exceed, if they equal, the sum mentioned
in my letter of the 4th instant, to the House of Representatives.
With perfect respect, I have the honor to be,
Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

To the Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

* See State Papers, Finance, Vol. I. pp. 218.

^t. 36.] LOANS. 413

A. — Statement of the Revenue of the United States, and appropriations charged
thereon to the end of the year 1792.

B. — General Statement of the Appropriations made hy law, and of the Expen-
ditures of the United States in relation thereto, from the first day of January to the
last day of December, 1792.

C. — Statement exhibiting the Debts charged upon the unexpended and uncol-
lected income of the United States on the last day of the year 1792.

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 20, 1793.

Treasury Department, February 19, 1793.

Sir:

The last letter which I had the honor to address to the House
of Representatives, contained a pretty fall exposition of the con-
duct and views of this Department, in regard to the foreign loans.
There remain, however, some incidental topics, which it may not
be expedient to pass over in silence.

In order to carry the attention of the House immediately to a
just application of the remarks Avhich will be submitted, it is
necessary to premise, that it is known to have been suggested
that the proceeds of the foreign bills drawn for to this country,
had no object of public utility — answered none — and were cal-
culated merely to indulge a spirit of favoritism towards the Bank
of the United States.

It has already been shown, clearly I trust, that, but for the
instrumentality of the parts of the loan drawn for prior to April,
1792, amounting nearly to one-half of the whole sum, the pur-
chases of the debt which were made to that time, could not have
been made ; and that these purchases, besides being the object
designated by law, for the application of the fund, were productive
of positive and important advantages.

How far the operation could have been influenced by motives
of favor to the Bank of the United States, the following facts
will still more completely decide.

414 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

That bank did not begin its operations till the 12th of Decem-
ber, 1791.

The Banks of North America and New-York were the agents
of the treasury for the sale of the bills in question. They sold
them, collected, and, with the exception which will be presently
stated, disbursed the proceeds.

The receipts on account of those bills began in March, 1791,
and concluded in March, 1792.

On the 31st of December, 1791, as the Treasurer's account
before the House will show, the public cash was deposited as
follows :

In the Bank of the United States, $133,000 00

Bank of North America, 471,972 28

Bank of New-York, 224,677 35

Bank of Massachusetts, 65.578 22

Bank of Maryland, 50,665 29

Bank of Providence, 7,969 61

Making, together, 8953,862 75

There was then also some moneys in the Banks of North
America and New-York, in a course of receipt, which had not
been passed over to the treasurer ; but all the public moneys, of
whatever kind, in the Bank of the United States, are included in
the above sum of 133,000 dollars, which had arisen from the
duties on imports and tonnage.

It appears, then, that, on the 31st of December, 1791, no
transfer for the benefit of the Bank of the United States had
been made ; and that the deposites of the Government there
(exclusive of the proceeds of the bills remaining in the two
banks, of North America and New-York), amounted to little
more than one-fourth of the deposites in the Bank of North
America, and little more than one-half of those in the Bank of
New- York.

As late as the 1st of Februar}r, the State banks continued to
share with the Bank of the United States a large proportion of

Mr. 36.] LOANS. 415

the public deposites. The state of the treasury then was as
follows, viz.:

In the Bank of the United States, $456,278 90

Bank of North America, 151,516 32

Bank of New- York, 128,708 21

Bank of Massachusetts, 71,215 55

Bank of Maryland, 49,583 25

Bank of Providence, 7,969 61

Making, together, $865,271 84

A concentration of the public deposites in the Bank of the
United States was a measure which grew out of the relation
between that establishment and the Government. Yet, instead
of hastening it through favor, it was resolved to let it have a
gradual course ; so as to consult, in a due degree, the conve-
nience of the other banks, and to effect it rather by letting the
public disbursements fall upon the moneys in those banks than
by direct transfer.

But a state of things took place in the month of February,
between the Banks of the United States and North America,
which rendered a more expeditious transfer than was meditated,
for the mutual convenience of the two institutions.

The effect of this was, that the state of the treasury, on the
1st of March, stood as follows :

In the Bank of the United States, $692,959 06
Bank of Massachusetts, 31,769 05

Bank of New-York, 32,352 52

Bank of North America, 31,515 74

Bank of Providence, 8,404 94

Bank of Maryland, 34,752 85

Making, together, $831,754 16

But at this time, there was in the Bank of New- York, from
the proceeds of the foreign bills, 121,984 dollars and 71 cents,
not transferred to the account of the Treasurer.

416 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

This accumulation, however, in the Bank of the United
States, was of very short duration.

On the 1st of April ensuing, the state of the public cash was
as follows :

In the Bank of the United States, $359,643 64

Bank of New- York, 254,930 41

Bank of North America, 31,515 74

Bank of Massachusetts, 37,712 58

Bank of Providence, 7,156 65

Bank of Maryland, 60,418 32

Making, together, $751,377 34

A similar state of things lasted to the 1st of June, compara-
tively more disadvantageous to the Bank of the United States.
The receipts of public revenue continued to go into the Bank of
New- York till the 1st of April, 1792, when a branch of the
Bank of the United States began to operate in that city ; which
is the reason of the sum in the Bank of New- York bearing so
near a proportion to that of the United States, and so far exceed-
ing the Bank of North America. By this time, also, the balance
of the proceeds of foreign bills had been passed to the account of
the Treasurer; yet still remaining in deposit in the Bank of
New-York.

These views of the state of the public cash are conformable to
the treasurer's statement of half-monthly balances, accompanying
my letter of the 13th instant, No. V.

The same statement will show, that a proportion of the public
deposits has continued, since the 1st of April, 1792, in the State
banks ; in those of North America and New- York down to the
end of the period which that statement embraces.

From these details, the following inferences are deducible.

That, as far as any advantages may have accrued from the
deposits on account of the foreign bills drawn prior to April,
1792, they accrued substantially to the Banks of North America
and New- York, not to the Bank of the United States, or to its

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 41

r

branches. That, in transferring the pecuniary concerns of the
Government from the pre-existing banks to that of the United
States and its dependencies, a cautious regard has been paid to
the convenience of the former institutions, and the reverse of a
policy unduly solicitous for the accommodation of the Bank of
the United States has prevailed. Indeed, so much has this been
the case, that it might be proved, if it were proper to enter into
the proof, that a criticism has been brought upon the conduct of
the Department, as consulting less the accommodation of the
last mentioned institution, than was due to its relation to the
Government and to the services expected from it.

But further examination will demonstrate another point ;
which is, that none of the establishments in question have
received any accommodations which were not in perfect coin-
cidence with the public interest, and in the due and proper
course of events.

This examination will be directed towards two objects ; one,
the state of the treasury at the commencement of each quarter,
during the years 1791 and 1792 ; the other, the state of the
market in regard to the prices of stock during the same years.

These periods are selected, because they afford the truest
criterion of the state of the treasury, from time to time, being
those at which the principal public payments are made ; and for
which it is necessary to be prepared by intermediate accumula-
tions.

The state of the treasury at the periods in question, was as
follows :

In the year 1791.

January 1, $569,886 55

March 1, 373,434 53

June 1, 533,638 24

October 1, 662,233 99

In the year 1792.

January 1, 953,862 75

April 1, 751,377 34

July 1, 623,133 61

418 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

October 1, 420,914 51

1793. January 1, 783,212 37

This appears from the statements Nos. 4 and 5, forwarded
with my last letter.

The state of the stock market, during the several quarters of
the same years, was as follows :

First quarter of 1791 —

Six per cents, from 16s.

Three per cents, from 8s.

Deferred, from 8s.

Second quarter of 1791 —

Six per cents, from 17s.

Three per cents, from 9s.

Deferred, from 8s.

Third quarter of 1791 —

Six per cents, from 17s.

Three per cents, from 9s.

Deferred, from 9s.

As early as the 6th of August, the six per cents, had a tem-
porary rise to 21s. but by the 16th, they had fallen to 20s. ; on
the 20th, they had risen to 20s. 6d, and were sometimes above
that rate, but never lower during the rest of the quarter.

As early as the 23d of July, the three per cents, had reached
12s., and were sometimes higher, but never lower during the
rest of the quarter.

On the 23d of July, the deferred also reached 12s., and after-
wards rose to 12s. Qd.

Fourth quarter of 1791 —

Six per cents, from 20s. 4c?.
Three per cents, from 12s. 2c?.
Deferred, from lis. 8c?.

The prices were lowest in the early, and highest in the latter
part of the quarter.

During the whole of the month of December, the deferred

9c?.

to

17s.

6d.

6c?.

to

9s.

4c?.

6c?.

to

9s.

4c?.

to

17s.

9c?.

to

10s.

Id

to

9s.

4c?.

Od

to

21s.

3c?.

9c?.

to

12s.

5c?.

9c?.

to

12s.

10c?.

to

22s.

4c?.

to

13s.

8c?.

to

13s.

6c?.

JEt. 36.]

LOANS. 419

was at 125. 8<£ and upwards ; the greatest part of the time at 13s.
First quarter of 1792 —

Six per cents, from 21s. to 25s.

Three per cents, from 12s. 6d. to 15s.
Deferred, from 12s. to 15s.

The low prices were in the last ten days of March.
Second quarter of 1792 — ■

Six per cents, from 20s.
Three per cents, from 12s.
Deferred, from lis.

Third quarter of 1792—

Six per cents, from 21s.
Three per cents, from 12s.
Deferred, from 12s.

Fourth quarter of 1792 —

Six per cents, from 20s.
Three per cents, from 12s.
Deferred, from lis.

In October, the deferred was ,
prices were in the month of December.

This view of the subject is derived from a statement of prices,
pursuant to actual purchases and sales, furnished by a dealer of
this city, respectable for his intelligence and probity, combined
with the accounts from time to time published in the Gazette of
the United States. The papers marked (A x.) and (B y.) are
transmitted for the more particular information of the House on
this head.

The market prices of stock no doubt varied at other places ;
at some may have been higher, at others lower. At Philadelphia,
too, 'tis believed that small sums were obtainable at particular
periods, from necessitous individuals, below the prices in the
statement.

But there is good ground of reliance, that it is substantially
a just representation of the state of the stock market, during the
periods to which it refers.

The state of the treasury, from the first of January, to the
first of October, 1791, may be said to have been at its proper

to

22s.

6c?.

to

13s.

9d.

6d.

to

13s.

U.

to

22s.

Sd.

U.

to

13s.

6d.

U.

to

13s.

Id.

2d.

to

21s.

9d.

Sd.

to

13s.

6d.

Od,

to

13s.

6d.

at the highest.

The lowest

420 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

level, exhibiting none, or an inconsiderable excess beyond the
sum which has been mentioned as necessary to be there, and
concerning which, a farther explanation has been promised, and
will be given in the course of this letter. The public purchases
in August and September, 1791, amounted to 349,744 dollars
and 99 cents.

In the last quarter of the year 1791, beginning with the
month of November, and the first quarter of the year 1792,
there appears to have been an excess of some magnitude in the
treasury, being from about 250,000 to about 450,000 dollars.
Taking the first quarter of 1792 as the truest criterion (which it
certainly was, because, at the expiration of that quarter, the
payment of interest on the assumed debt began, and was to be
provided for) the real excess ought to be considered as 250,000
dollars ; with the addition of about 80,000 dollars then in the
Bank of North America, from the proceeds of Amsterdam bills,
beyond the advances of the bank for the public service, Avhich
had not been passed into the Treasurer's account. It is proper
to remark, that the course of importations occasions large receipts
in the latter part of each year, which circumstance contributed
to the accumulation in question.

From the last of November to about the 21st of March,
an investment of the excess on hand, in purchases, was im-
practicable.

To enable the House to understand what is meant by saying
that purchases were impracticable during that period, it is
necessary to add, that the prices of stock exceeded the limits
which the commissioners of the sinking fund had prescribed to
themselves. Indeed, a large proportion of the time, those prices
were manifestly artificial, and such as predicted a great fall
not far distant. The delay incurred, was accordingly well
compensated by the prices at which investments were afterwards
made.

From the 21st of March to the 25th of April, purchases were
effected to the extent of 242,688 dollars and 31 cents, in specie;
within 80 or 90,000 dollars of what could have been spared,
consistently with the rule which has been mentioned, as proper
to regulate the arrangements of the treasury.

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 421

But two circumstances operated against a further investment ;
a sudden rise of prices, and a state of temporary disorder in the
two principal mercantile scenes of the country (occasioned by
the excessive speculations that had preceded) which admonished
the treasury to be cautious in its disbursements.

It results from the foregoing view of the subject, that, as
far as any extraordinary sum may appear to have remained
unemployed in the banks a longer term than was desirable, it
proceeded essentially from a state of things which did not permit
its employment, and is in no degree attributable to that spirit of
favoritism towards those establishments, or any of them, which
has been imagined, as the solution of appearances, not rightly
understood, and much overrated.

The only question, then, of which the matter is susceptible,
is this : Was not the state of things, that did take place, to have
been foreseen, so as to have influenced the drawing for a propor-
tionably less sum ?

This question may safely be answered in the negative.

The bills, the proceeds of which contributed to constitute the
excess, which remained unemployed during the two quarters,
were drawn in May, 1791. In that month, the highest prices of
stock were 17s. 2d. for six per cents. 9s. 2d. for three per cents,
and 9s. 3d. for deferred.

No reasonable anticipation, at this juncture, of the progres-
sive rise of stock, could have carried it in so short a time to
the height which it attained, or beyond the limits within
which purchases were deemed advantageous. The rapid and
extraordinary rise which did ensue, was, in fact, artificial and
violent; such as no discreet calculation of probabilities could
have pre-supposed. It, therefore, cannot impeach the prudence
or expediency of having made provision, on a different suppo-
sition, for an extension of purchases.

The proceeds of the bills which were drawn subsequent to
May, only began to be collected about the beginning of February,
and continued in collection until the 29th of March. On the 2d
of February, the sum received amounted to no more than 13,431
dollars and 33 cents.

422 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

These last bills were drawn when the rapid rise of stock
commenced, and were sold upon a credit of three months. It
was a natural conjecture, that a rise so sudden and violent could
not be of long duration ; and that a declension would shortly
succeed, which would afford an opportunity of purchasing with
advantage, and render the intervention of public purchases
advantageous in more than one respect. The event fully corres-
ponded with the anticipation.

With regard to the bills drawn in April last, it has been
stated, that they were directed to be sold upon a credit of six
months ; that those drawn in July, August, and October, were
made payable, one moiety in two, the other moiety in four
months. Hence, with a moderate allowance for delay in the
sales, the period contemplated by the arrangement for the com-
mencement of receipts, was the month of October ; that for their
consummation, the month of February.

The inducements to the drawing of these bills have been
stated. The present examination has relation merely to the
question, whether the bank of the United States, by premedi-
tation of this Department, or subsequent omissions, had enjoyed
any undue advantage from the deposites of the proceeds of the
bills at the end of the year, 1792, the point of time to which this
inquiry has reference.

The statement which has been made, as to the time the
moneys received to that period had remained in deposit, might
alone be relied upon as a sufficient answer. If delinquency
can be attached to the non-employment of one or two hundred
thousand dollars for a few weeks, in the money operations of a
nation, it implies a minuteness of responsibility, which could
never be encountered with prudence, and never will be fulfilled
in practice. The distractions of attention, incident to a great
and complicated scene of business, would alone disappoint the
expectation.

But I have more than this to offer upon the present occasion.
The opportunity for investing the moneys on hand, during the
period in question, was not favorable. This was experienced by
the Treasurer, in his endeavors to invest the fund arising from

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 423

the interest on the purchased debt. There was no part but the
deferred which could be had at all within the limits prescribed.
Several indications of an approaching season, more advantageous
for purchases, were discernible, and a better employment of the
money than at the then prices presented itself to the option of
the Legislature. This mode of employing it, formed, in my
mind, part of a general plan for the regular redemption of the
public debt, according to the right reserved to the Government.
The one per cent, which might be saved, was regarded as one
means of constituting the proposed annuities.

Accordingly, on the 30th of November last, pursuant to a
reference of the 22d of that month, and connected with the plan
of redemption contemplated, I submitted to the House of repre-
sentatives a proposition for applying the moneys in question
towards discharging the debt which the Government owes to the
bank, and upon which an interest of six per cent, is payable.
This was manifestly, at the time of the proposition, the most
profitable use that could be made of the fund. It has been
already stated, that it would produce a saving, if extended to
the whole two millions, worth to the Government an annual sum
of 20,000 dollars— equal to a capital of 400,000 dollars.

This proposition tended to accelerate the employment of the
moneys on hand, in a way the most beneficial to the Government ;
and consequently to shorten the duration of the advantage to
the banks of holding them, by way of deposit. I submit it to
the candor of the House, whether it be not full evidence that
there was no disposition, on my part, to prolong to those institu-
tions a benefit at the expense of the Government.

The proposition itself has not yet received the decision of the
House.

Another ground upon which the suggestion of mismanage-
ment and undue concession to the interest of the banks has been
founded, respects the domestic loans which have been obtained.
Those of them which have been made of the Bank of the United
States, are represented as unnecessary, tending to afford an
emolument to that institution, for which the United States had
no equivalent advantage.

424 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 36.

It will conduce to a correct judgment of this matter, to
resume a point already touched upon, and to add here the
further illustrations of it which have been promised, to wit:
that it ought to be a general principle to have constantly in the
command of the treasury, at its different places of deposit, a sum
of about 500,000 dollars— a principle, too, which must be under-
stood with reference to the beginnings of the quarters of a year,
when the chief public payments are made and making.

The following observations will apply generally to the
balances which appear at the commencement of each quarter.
The greatest part of the interest for the preceding quarter, will
have been then deducted; but a part is always in a different
situation.

The payment of interest upon a public debt, at thirteen
different places, is an operation as difficult and complicated as it
is new. In carrying it into execution, it is of necessity to lodge,
for some time previous to the expiration of each quarter, at
several of the loan offices, drafts of the Treasurer, for the
sums estimated to be necessary at those offices, with blanks
for the direction, and with liberty to the respective officers
to dispose of them upon different places, as a demand accrues.
This arrangement has an eye to two purposes ; to avoid large
previous accumulations at particular points; to facilitate the
placing of the requisite sums, where they are wanted, without
the transportation of specie. The allowing of the drafts to be
disposed of on several places, gives larger scope to a demand for
them, and renders them more easily saleable. But it is a conse-
quence of this, that a part of the drafts are often not placed and
brought into the accounts of the Treasurer, till some time after
the expiration of the quarter. The fund for them of course
appears on hand till the transaction is completed.

Connected with the circumstance of paying the interest upon
the public debt at different places, is this further consequence.
The transfers ■ continually going on from one office to another,
render it impossible to know, at any moment when provision
for the payment of interest is to be made, what sum is requisite
at each place. Estimate must supply the want of knowledge ;

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 425

and, to avoid disappointment any where, the estimate must
always be large, and a correspondent sum placed in the power of
the commissioners. This circumstance alone requires an extra
sum at the different places of payment, which ought not to be
computed at less than 50,000 dollars.

Again, the sums payable on account of the civil list, at
the end of each quarter, which amount to about fifty thousand
dollars, exclusive of what relates to the two Houses of Congress,
are always in a course of payment for some time within the
succeeding quarter. The fund for them consequently appears in
the moneys on hand at the beginning of such quarter.

Again, there are constantly considerable arrears of existing
appropriations, for which demands on the treasury are at every
moment possible ; the times when they will be presented, and
to what extent, at any given time, being in a great degree
contingent. The arrears for the different objects of the War De-
partment, can seldom be estimated at less than 150,000 dollars.

It is presumed to be a clear principle, that the treasury ought
to be always ready to face such arrears as may be claimed at
every instant, or within any short period. An hour's distress or
embarrassment, to make good a public payment, already due.
would be baneful to public credit. It has been a uniform maxim
of the present administration of the treasury never to risk such
distress or embarrassment.

Independently, therefore, of the weighty consideration of
being prepared (especially with a war on hand liable every
moment to greater extension) for future casualties, the mere
satisfaction of arrears ought to cause the constant reservation of
a sum, that would be moderately stated at half the sum which it
has been alleged ought always to be in the treasury. It is to be
observed, that it does not often happen that the current receipts
to be expected in any immediately succeeding quarter, are likely
to exceed the probable expenditure of the quarter. The reverse
is as often the case. Hence the greater necessity of maintaining a
constant surplus.

There are still other considerations of weight, in a just
estimate of the point in question.

c 28

426 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

The sum stated as necessary to be always in the command of
the treasury, is never in fact at the seat of the Government,
where far the greatest part of the public disbursements are to
be made. The depositories of it are the several banks from
Charleston to Boston. The whole sum, therefore, can never be
brought into immediate action, for answering the claims upon
the treasury. No part can be properly viewed as in this situa-
tion, beyond New- York on the one side, and Baltimore on the
other. Whatever part is more remote than those points, ought
not to be regarded as capable of being commanded in less time,
upon an average, than sixty days, making allowance for the
usual delays in the sale of bills, and the usual terms of credit,
which experience has shown to be convenient.

In estimating the effective sum at any time on hand, in the
Bank of the United States, it is necessary to be known, that a
practice for the simplification of the treasurer's bank account,
begun with the Bank of North America, has been continued
with the Bank of the United States, of this nature : The bills
drawn by the Treasurer upon distant places, and deposited with
the bank for sale, are immediately passed to his credit as cash,
though they are allowed to be sold at credits from thirty to sixty
days ; and it is understood, that the proceeds are not demandable
of the bank, till they are collected. Hence the apparent sum in
the Bank of the United States is always greater than the real ;
sometimes to a large amount.

The deductions to be made for this circumstance, are shown
in the treasurer's half monthly statement of balances No. 5,
beginning with the first of June, 1792, and ending with the first
of January, 1793. The period begun with is that when the first
instalment of the loan from the bank was payable, and has been
selected for this reason.

The propriety of these deductions appears to have been
objected to, by anticipation, on two grounds; one, that the bills
deposited answer all the purposes of cash, and ought to be
credited as such, on the receipt of them; the other, that "there
is a regular and constant influx of moneys into the bank, by the
operation of these bills, and that it is not very material whether

Mr. 36.] LOANS. 427

a bill lodged in the bank to-day, should be paid to-day, provided
something like the same sum should be paid in consequence of a
bill lodged in bank one or two months ago, and the bill of to-day
should be paid one or two months hence."

Neither the one nor the other of these two positions is
correct.

In no sense are the notes of the purchasers of the bills, which
are taken payable in thirty, forty-five, and sixty days, the same
thing to a bank as cash. 'Tis evident it could not pay its own
bills with those notes. In this primary particular, therefore, the
comparison fails ; neither could it make discouuts upon the basis
of those notes as cash. Because, every discount gives a right to
a borrower to call and receive in coin, if he pleases, the amount
of the sum discounted. Notes are not coin, nor do they confer
an equal power to pay. It is true, that a bank will, in its
discounts, make some calculation on expected receipts ; but it
can never consider them as equivalent to cash in hand, nor
operate upon them in any degree to the same extent as upon
equal sums in cash. If notes payable at future periods were
equivalent to cash, then every discount made by a bank would
confer a faculty to make another for an equal sum ; for there is
always a note deposited for the sum discounted, and the power
of discounting might, by the mere exercise of it, become infinite.
An hypothesis of this kind will never be acted upon by any
prudent directors of a bank, and could not be long acted upon,
without ruin to the institution. It is to be observed that the
great profitable business of a bank consists in discounting.

There is but one light in which the position under examina-
tion is in any degree founded. It is this, that, were it not for
the instrumentality of the bills, the specie of the bank would be
sometimes remitted for purposes which are answered by the bills.
As often as this happens, they are a substitute to the bank for
cash, because they prevent equivalent sums from being carried
away.

But this only sometimes happens. In numerous instances,
the enterprises to which the bills are subservient, would not be
undertaken at all, were it not for the power of anticipation

428 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

which the credits upon them afford. In many other instances,
the bills of the bank itself would be remitted instead of specie ;
in others, private bills would be substituted ; in others, mutual
credits between the merchants, to be liquidated in the course of
mutual dealings, would supply the call.

Hence it is only true that treasury bills sometimes answer the
purpose of cash to the bank, whence it does not follow that they
ought always to be considered and credited definitively as cash.
It is also true, though in a less degree, that notes deposited with
the bank by individuals, for collection, sometimes answer to it
the purposes of cash ; but it will be readily perceived that it
would be inadmissible, as a general rule, to receive and credit
them as such. 1

Tne effect in both cases would be, that the bank would make
an advance of a present sum ivithout interest, for a sum to be re-
ceived in future.

An arrangement, indeed, has been for some time depending
between the Bank of the United States and the treasury, for
securing to the Government the advantage of an immediate ab-
solute credit for the bills deposited, as so much cash, to be coupled
with some collateral accommodations to the bank. But it has not
yet been carried into effect. The fact heretofore, has been as
stated, and the reasoning, to be just, must proceed on that basis.

The last of the two positions which have been cited, has still
less foundation than the first.

A sum received to-day, for a bill deposited two months past,
can in no view be deemed a substitute for the amount of a bill
deposited to-day to be received two months hence. It is to be re-
membered, that the amount of the first bill was itself credited at
the time of the deposit; and that the sum received to-day on
that account, can only realize the antecedent credit. It cannot re-
present or be an equivalent for the future receipt upon a different
bill. To affirm that it could, is to make one sum the representa-
tive of two. The consequence of the reasoning would be, that
the Government ought to receive the money paid in to-day as a
satisfaction, as well for the bill deposited to-day, as for that
which was deposited two months past.

Mr. 36.] LOANS. 429

Making the proper deductions on account of the bills, the
amount of the effective cash in the banks of Philadelphia, New-
York, and Baltimore was, on the first of June, 587,091 dollars
and 11 cents ; in other banks, there was then also the further
sum of 9,591 dollars and 89 cents, making together 596,683
dollars. The amount of the effective cash on the second of July,
in the banks at Philadelphia, New- York and Baltimore, was
217,234 dollars and 76 cents ; there were then also in the other
banks, 184,998 dollars and 85 cents; making, together, 402,233
dollars and 61 cents. The amount of the effective cash on the
first of October, in the banks at Philadelphia, New-York, and
Baltimore, was 244,394 dollars and 27 cents ; there were then also
in the other banks, 145,420 dollars and 24 cents ; making, to-
gether, 389,814 dollars and 51 cents.

The deductions for bills at the several periods, were, June
first, 157,508 dollars and 33 cents ; July second, 220,900 dollars;
October first, 31,100 dollars ; so that, including the bills at that
epoch, the whole sum in the banks at Philadelphia, New-York,
and Baltimore, amounted to no more than 275,494 dollars and
27 cents; the sums in the other banks, to 145,420 dollars and 24
cents.

On the first of June, there were paid on account of the debt
to France, 100,000 dollars ; the day following, the first instal-
ment of 100,000 dollars, on account of the loan from the bank,
was received. On the 30th of June, the second instalment of
100,000 dollars was received. These two instalments, amounting
to 200,000 dollars, are included in the sum of 217,234 dollars
and 76 cents, which, on the 2d of July, constituted the cash in
all the banks at Philadelphia, New- York, and Baltimore.

About the beginning of August, another instalment on ac-
count of the loan of the bank was received, and on the 29th of
September, another, making, with the preceding ones, 400,000
dollars. This sum was involved in the balance in the treasury
on the first of October, which, it has been seen, did not exceed
in the banks at and near the seat of the Government, including
even unsold and unpaid bills, 275,494 dollars and 27 cents ; and
comprehending the sums in all the other banks, amounted to no
more than 420,914 dollars and 51 cents.

430 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

From the foregoing detail, it appears that, excluding the
200,000 dollars received on loan of the Bank of the United
States, in the month of June, there would have been, on the 2d
of July, 1792, in the command of the treasury at those places,
from which immediate supplies may be derived, no greater sum
than 17,234 dollars and 76 cents; that, excluding the 400,000
dollars, before that time received on loan of the same bank,
there would have been, on the 1st of October, 1792, an absolute
deficiency within the scene described, of 124,505 dollars and 73
cents ; that the whole balance then in the treasury, wheresoever
deposited, amounted only to 420,914 dollars and 51 cents, and,
excluding the loan of the bank, would not have been more
than 20,914 dollars and 51 cents.

There must be some very radical error in my conceptions
of the proper condition of the treasury, if it was not in a suf-
ficiently low state, during the whole period under consideration ;
and if it be not demonstrated, that the moneys taken of the
bank on loan were necessary for the public service, and were
obtained with a due regard to economy.

There are circumstances which still further manifest the at-
tention which has been paid to this point. The powers given
to make loans for domestic purposes at different times, up to
the 8th of May, 1792, comprehend an aggregate of 1,053,355
dollars and 74 cents ; the sums which have been actually obtain-
ed upon interest, amount to no more than 455,000 dollars.

The contract upon which the 400,000 dollars were obtained,
was made the 25th of May, 1792, extending to 523,500 dollars,
and contemplating the payment of 400,000 dollars of that sum
by the bank, in equal monthly instalments, beginning on the 1st
of June, and ending the 1st of September ; the residue on the 1st
of January, 1793.

Previous to the making of that contract, there had been
stipulated to be paid on account of the French debt, for the sup-
plies to St. Domingo, 400,000 dollars, of which one-fourth was
paid in March, another fourth was payable on the 1st of June,
another fourth on the 1st of September, another fourth on the 1st
of December.

JEt. 36.] LOANS. 431

Particular causes rendered it an accommodation to the agents
of France, to postpone and subdivide the September instalment.
A similar postponement took place with regard to the instalment
payable by the bank on the 1st of September, which was not
demanded till the latter end of the month, and the remainder of
the sum contracted for has not yet been demanded. The spirit
of the precaution, which secured to the public the privilege of
making or forbearing its calls, according to circumstances, needs
no comment.

There remain to be noticed two circumstances, which will
serve to throw additional light upon the conduct which has
been observed with regard to the sums from time to time kepi
on hand. A comparison of the sums in the treasury, during the
years 1791 and 1792, will contradict the idea of any disposition
to suffer the public moneys to accumulate, for the benefit of the
Bank of the United States, and its subdivisions, and will at the
same time indicate the general rule which has governed. In
this comparison, it is necessary to recollect that larger operations
were to be performed in 1792.

It may be objected, that the rule laid down has been on
several occasions exceeded. How this has happened at certain
periods, has been explained. But there is a view of the subject
which will throw further light upon it.

The sums which appear on hand at the end of any quarter,
arc always larger on a retrospective than on a previous view. This
proceeds from the following cause :

The judgment to be formed beforehand of the sums which
will be received within any future period, must of necessity be
regulated by the returns in possession of the treasury, at the
time the examination is made. As these come forward with
more or less punctuality, that judgment will be more or less ac-
curate ; but, the appearance on the returns will always be short
of the fact, because a certain number of returns, at any period
of examination, will necessarily be deficient. What does not
appear, must of course be essentially excluded from the calcula-
tion of the receipts to be expected within any near period. Be-
cause the extent of the sums which may have accrued, beyond

432 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

those shown by the returns in hand, is unknown, and it is still
more uncertain in what months the payments of them may fall ;
and the combinations of the treasury, as to the means of fulfil-
ling the- demands upon it, ought to proceed as little as possible
upon conjectures and uncertainties.

Monthly abstracts of the bonds taken at each port, are the
documents which serve to inform the treasury of the progress
of the receipts upon the duties of imports. From these, a
general abstract is made up once a month at the treasury, for
the information of the head of the Department, showing the
amount payable in each month.

But very considerable differences appear from one month to
another. The statement C Z, will serve as an illustration.

It contains a comparison of the sums shown by two suc-
cessive abstracts, one of the 7th of November, the other of the
7th of December last, for a term of ten months, distributed
into monthly subdivisions. The aggregate difference upon the
whole term between the two abstracts, is 495,308 dollars and
73 cents ; upon two months, beginning with November, and
ending with December, it is 151,789 dollars and 40 cents;
upon a quarter beginning with January, and ending with
March, it is 174,471 dollars and 66 cents ; upon a subsequent
quarter, it is 81,055 dollars and 81 cents ; upon a still subsequent
quarter, it is 87,991 dollars and 86 cents.

Hence it is evident, that an arrangement, founded upon the
abstract of the 7th of November, would suppose a receipt dur-
ing any part of the time embraced by it, even the most proxi-
mate, considerably less than would appear by the abstract only
one month later ; and it must always happen, from this circum-
stance, that the actual receipts, while punctuality is preserved,
will exceed the anticipations of them, and that greater balances
will be found to exist at any given period, than could have been
beforehand safely calculated or acted upon. This circumstance,
duly considered, will be a further and powerful justification of the
conduct pursued generally, in relation to the moneys from time
to time kept on hand, and particularly with regard to the loans
of the bank. Low as the state of the treasury appears to have

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 433

been on a retrospective view, when the moneys upon those loans
were called for, the prospect, at each time, must have presented
the appearance of a less competent supply, or a greater defi-
ciency, than was afterwards realized.

I am not sure but that I owe an apology to the House for
taking up so much of its time in obviating the imputation of
partiality or favoritism towards the banks ; the aspect under
which I view it, admonishes me, that I may have annexed to it
greater importance than was intended to be given to it by its
authors.

That a disposition friendly to the accommodation of those insti-
tutions, as far as might be consistent with official duty and the
public interest, has characterized the conduct of the Department,
will not be denied.

No man, placed in the office of the Secretary of the Treasury,
whatever theoretic doubts he may have brought into it, would
be a single month without surrendering those doubts to a full
conviction, that banks are essential to the pecuniary operations
of the Government.

No man, having a practical knowledge of the probable re-
sources of the country, in the article of specie, (which he would
with caution rate beyond the actual revenues of the Govern-
ment), would rely upon the annual collection of four millions
and a half of dollars, without the instrumentality of institutions
that give a continual impulse to circulation, and prevent the
stagnation, to be otherwise expected from locking up from time
to time large sums for periodical disbursements ; to say nothing
of the accommodations, which facilitate to the merchant the pay-
ment of the considerable demands made upon him by the
treasury.

No man, practically acquainted with the pecuniary ability of
individuals, in this country, would count upon finding the
means of those anticipations of the current revenue for the
current service, which have been, and will be necessary, from
any other source than that of the banks.

No prudent administrator of the finances of the country,
therefore, but would yield to the disposition, which has been

434 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

acknowledged, as alike essential to the interest of the Govern-
ment, and to the satisfactory discharge of his trust ; a disposi-
tion which would naturally lead to good offices, within the pro-
per and justifiable bounds.

After the explanation which has been offered, to manifest the
necessity and propriety of the loans made of the bank, it can
scarcely be requisite to enter into a refutation of the process by
which it has been endeavored to establish that the Government
pays seventeen per cent, upon those loans. The state of the
treasury rendered it expedient to borrow the sums which were
borrowed ; they have been duly received, and the rate of in-
terest stipulated upon them is five per cent. The Government
then pays upon them five per cent, and no more.

The history which was given, in my last letter, of the course
and situation of the foreign fund, proves that the supposition
from which the inference, of paying seventeen per cent, upon
the domestic loan, has been drawn, is erroneous. The balances
on hand, at the respective periods in question, are the residues
of the moneys which had been received from every source, in-
cluding the loans, foreign and domestic.

But, if the supposition which appears to have been made,
had been true, it was still impossible that seventeen per cent,
could have been paid. By no construction can the rate be ex-
tended beyond ten. The mean interest of the money borrowed
abroad, including charges, is five per cent. ; the interest stipu-
lated to be paid on the loan from the bank is also five ; the
sum of the two is ten. It is immaterial for what purpose the
foreign fund was obtained, whether to pay to France or to pur-
chase the debt ; the worst consequence that can result is double
not treble interest. The interest payable to France is payable for
moneys borrowed and spent during the war. It can never be
truly said, that that interest is now payable on any existing
fund, whether borrowed in Holland or borrowed in the United
States, or borrowed there and re-borrowed here. It can never
serve to make an addition to the cost or charges of any such
fund. 'Tis payable upon one long since procured and used.

But it is not obvious how the supposition came to be enter-

Mt. 36.] LOANS. 435

tained, that all the moneys drawn here from the foreign fund
. had been borrowed for the payment of the debt to France.
The presumption would seem to have been more natural, that
they had been principally, if not wholly introduced with a view
to purchases of the debt^ and consequently had a more special
reference to the act authorizing a loan for that purpose. And
the fact is, that this was the destination of far the greatest propor-
tion of the sums drawn for. It has been stated that a part had
an eye to the supplies to St. Domingo, and that another part
was introduced with a view to the payment of the foreign
officers.

The additional observations to which I shall request the at-
tention of the House will apply to the course and state of the
sinking fund, concerning which, I transmitted with my last com-
munication, three statements, numbered I, II, III.*

To give a more collected view of this part of the subject, it
may be of use to include here a recapitulation of some ideas,
which have been stated in other places.

It is the course and practice of this Department, for all pub-
lic moneys, from whatever source proceeding, to pass into the
treasury, and there form a common mass ; subject, under the
responsibility of the officers of the Department, to the disposi-
tions which have been prescribed by law.

The surplus at the end of the year 1790, appropriated to the
sinking fund, amounting to 1,374,656 dollars and 40 cents, went,
as it was received, into the treasury.

All the proceeds of the bills drawn upon the foreign fund,
prior to April, 1792, except the sum of 177,998 dollars and 80
cents, left in deposite with the bank of North America, for rea-
sons which have been explained, passed from time to time into
the treasury. The whole amount of the sums paid in is 907,294
dollars and 23 cents.

The proceeds of the bills drawn for, in, and subsequent to,
April, 1792, have not yet passed into the treasury, for reasons
which have been likewise assigned. It would have been done

* For these Statements see State Papers, Vol. I. pp. 210, 211, 212.

436 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

before this time, as far as the receipts had gone, but for the pre-
sent inquiry, which temporarily suspended it. I thought it
best to make no alteration in the state of things, as they
stood when it began, at least till all the information desired had
been given. Measures will now be taken for a settlement of
the accounts, and for a transfer of the proceeds. The whole
amount of those bills, paid and unpaid, including an estimated
sum of interest, will be, as heretofore stated, 1,220,476 dollars
and ten cents.

The whole amount of the bills drawn is 2,305,769 dollars and
13 cents.

Out of the sinking fund composed of the surplus of the rev-
enue, to the end of 1790, and the proceeds of the foreign bills,
there were issued from the treasury, and expended in purchases,
to the end of 1792, 957,770 dollars and 65 cents.

For reasons which have been stated, it was finally deemed
advisable to place those purchases wholly to the account of the
surplus of 1790.

Consequently, there remained on the 1st of January, of the
present year, 416,885 dollars and 75 cents, of the above men-
tioned surplus, unapplied to purchases ; and the whole of the
foreign fund, except the sum of 726,000 dollars paid, and re-
served to be paid, for the use of the colony of St. Domingo, and
the sum of 191,316 dollars and 90 cents paid, and reserved to
be paid, to the foreign officers, became free for future application.
The balance of the proceeds of the bills, after deducting for
those reservations, is 1,388,452 dollars and 22 cents.

Since the 1st of January, 1793, there have been issued, on
account of the foreign fund, for purchases, 284,901 dollars and
89 cents.

The practice has uniformly been, not to separate any of the
moneys belonging to the sinking fund, from the common mass
of the moneys in the treasury, but in proportion to the occa-
sions of investing them in purchases.

Hence the sum of 957,770 dollars and 65 cents, issued pre-
vious to the present year, and the sum of 284,901 dollars and 89
cents, issued during the present year, making, together, 1,242,672

Mr. 36.] LOANS. 437

dollars and 54 cents, are all the moneys which have been
ever separated from the common mass of the treasury, for the
purpose of the sinking fund ; the whole of which, except 49,282
dollars and 74 cents, have been actually expended in purchases.

The unapplied sum remains deposited in the Bank of the
United States, except a small balance of 61 dollars and 76 cents,
in the hands of William Heth.

From the above rule, the part of the sinking fund arising
from interest on the debt extinguished by purchases or other-
wise, is to be excepted. The practice hitherto, has been to in-
clude this interest in the general dividend of each quarter, and
the warrant issued to the cashier of the bank for paying it. The
statement No. 3,* accompanying my last letter, shows the appli-
cation of this fund hitherto.

The law directs that this fund shall be invested within thirty
days after each quarter. This provision began to take effect on
the 1st of July last.

But the investments were not made within the respective
times prescribed. This proceeded partly from the state of the
market, and partly from the regulations adopted by the commis-
sioners, who were the Secretary of State, the Attorney General,
and the Secretary of the Treasury.

Their regulations, applying to the two first quarters, limited
the prices to certain rates, and prescribed the mode of sealed
proposals. The Treasurer was appointed agent for the commis-
sioners.

The proposals, with regard to the first quarter, were receiva-
ble till 28th of July inclusively ; none were offered, as the Treas-
urer reported to me, and nothing was done.

The experiment of sealed proposals was again tried the
second quarter, with somewhat more, though with but little suc-
cess. The restriction to this mode of proceeding was rescind-
ed, on the last day of the thirty allowed for purchasing, and
some further purchases were made, but the whole sum invested
was only 25,969 dollars and 96 cents.

* For statement III, see State Papers, Vol. I.. Finance, p. 212.

438 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt.36.

The residue of this fund, except some small sums noted at
foot of statement No. 3, was in January past.

The unapplied part of the surplus of 1790 having been ex-
pended in aid of the receipts of 1791, according to the provision
which was made for that purpose, will remain suspended until
the future receipts shall so far exceed the current disbursements as
to produce a surplus for replacing it.

In computing the amount of the unapplied foreign fund, it
is necessary to take into the account the payments made from it
during the years 1791 and 1792, on account of the interest of
the foreign debt.

Provision having been made for paying this interest out of
the domestic revenues, the sums which have been paid on that
account, from the foreign fund, are to be considered in the same
light as if they had been transferred here by drafts.

The amount paid at Amsterdam is 1,633,189 guilders and
two stivers, equal at 36T4T ninetieths per guilder, to 659,874 dol-
lars and 34 cents.

There will be additions to be made, which are not at pre-
sent ascertained.

Adding this sum to the proceeds of the bills, and deducting
the sums paid and to be paid for St. Domingo, and the foreign
officers, and those applied to purchases during the present year,
there will remain a sum of 1,763,424 dollars and 68 cents, sub-
ject to a future application.

Of this sum 1,715,098 dollars and 11 cents will be properly
applicable to the purchase of the debt. But circumstances may
render it eligible to appropriate a part of it towards the dis-
charge of the foreign debt.

From the plan which has been pursued, it is also liable to
this application.

I have the honor to annex to the statements heretofore
transmitted, those in the printed schedules marked A, B,
and 0 *

A exhibits the relative state of revenue and appropriations,

*

* For A, B, and C, see State Papers, Vol. I., Finance, pp. 219 to 222.

At. 36.] LOANS. 439

to the end of 1792. B the relative state of appropriations and
expenditures to the same period ; showing the balance unsatisfied
of each head of appropriation. C, applies these statements to
an explanation of the demands or charges upon the excess of
income, beyond the disbursements, to the end of 1792.

In addition to these are two statements, marked D and E.

D, showing what proportion of the balances unsatisfied of
the several appropriations are likely to be real expenditures,
and what part are not likely to be so. In this, however, in sev-
eral instances, probability must guide, the nature of the thing
not admitting of certainty.

E, showing the cash on hand upon the first of January last,
and likely to be received from that day to the first of April
next, and the sums paid and payable during that period.

The result, founded upon facts, contradicts very essentially
that statement, which aims at showing the ability of the treasury,
besides defraying the current expenses of the quarter, to pay off
two millions to the bank ; still leaving a balance in favor of the
treasury of 664,263 dollars aud 54 cents.

It shows that, after satisfying the demands for which the
treasury is bound to be prepared, including a payment to the
bank of only one tenth part of the 2,000,000, of which the state-
ment alluded to supposes the complete payment ; there would re-
main a balance in favor of the treasury of no more than 664,180
dollars and 89 cents.

It could answer no valuable purpose to delay the House
with a particular examination of the various misapprehensions
which have led to a result so different from the true one. It
will be sufficient, as an example, to state a single instance. It is
assumed as an item in the calculation, that a sum of a million of
dollars will come into the treasury by the first of April, on ac-
'count of the revenue of the current year ; while the probability
is, that the sum received may not exceed ten thousand dollars ;
this presumption of a million is evidently founded upon two
mistakes. 1st. It proceeds on the basis of an annual revenue of
four millions of dollars, and supposes this sum equally distributed
between the different quarters of the year, a million to each

440 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

quarter ; when, in fact, there are two seasons of the year incom-
parably more productive than the other parts of it, viz : Those
portions of the spring and fall which are embraced by the second
and third quarters ; the first and fourth being far less productive.
2d. It supposes all the duties which accrue are immediately paid ;
whereas the cases of prompt payment are confined to those in
which the duties on particular articles imported in one vessel,
by one person or co-partnership, do not exceed 50 dollars ; in
all other instances, a credit not less than four months is allowed,
which carries the payment on the importations, upon the very
first day of the quarter, a month beyond the expiration of it.

If the whole amount of the duties, which accrued during
the first quarter of 1792, in cash and bonds, was no more than
307,163 dollars and 84 cents, adding one seventh for the addi-
tional duties, it ought, by analogy, to be the first quarter of the
present year, 322,472 dollars and 94 cents ; less, in totality, than
the sum which it has been computed would be actually in
money in the treasury, by 677,527 dollars and 6 cents; and less,
by the whole million, nearly, than will probably be in money in
the treasury on that account.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury.

The Hon. the Speaker of the

House of Representatives.

A x. — Markel prices of Public Stocks, taken from actual purchases and sales.

B y. — Prices of the Public Stocks, taken from the Gazette of the U. S.

C Z. — Comparative statement of bonds for duties becoming due from Novem-
ber, 1792, to September. 1793, inclusive, as per monthly abstracts thereof, taken
7th November and 7th December, 1792.

D. — Statement showing the sums of appropriation, to the end of the year 1792,
which will probably not be required to satisfy the same.

E — Probable state of cash, from the last of Dec, 1792, to the 1st of April, 1793.
— See State Papers — Finance, Vol. I. pp. 230 to 834.

[In State Papers, Finance, Vol. I., page 281, may be seen a Report of a
Committee of the House of Representatives, on "The Condition of the Treasury,"
explanatory of the matters to which this, and several of the preceding papers relate.]

-Et. 36.] SPIRITS, DOMESTIC. 441

SPIEITS, DOMESTIC.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, March 2, 1793.

Treasury Department, March 2, 1793.

Sir:

Pursuant to an order of the House of Representatives, of the
8th day of May last, I have the honor to transmit a general state
of the revenue on stills, and on spirits distilled within the United
States, exhibiting the several particulars indicated by the said
order, so far as returns have been received at the Treasury ; to
which I beg leave to add the copy of a letter, of yesterday, from
the Commissioner of the Revenue, transmitting the same to me.
With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable the Speaker

of the House of Representatives.

Treasury Department, Revenue Office, March 1, 1793.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit to you a general state of the
revenue on domestic distilled spirits, exhibiting, as far as returns
have been received at the Treasury, the several objects contem-
plated by the House of Representatives, in their order of the 8th
of May last. The supervisors of those districts, wherein the dis-
tillation is principally from domestic materials in the country,
were, in many instances, unable to establish collectors, by reason
of the smallness of the compensations under the first act ; and
you will remember, that, from that and other causes, the detailed
information, which was necessary to enable the President to
make the final distributions of the funds assigned for compensa-

c 29

442 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

tions and expenses, could not be collected, so as to complete that
business, till the end of October.

The appointments have since been generally made, and, con-
sequently, this revenue will now take a more orderly course.
I have the honor to be, with great respect, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,

Tench Coxe,

Commissioner of the Revenue.
The Honorable the Secretary
of the Treasury.

SPIRITS, DOMESTIC.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 20, 1794.

Treasury Department, January 20. 1794.

Sie :

I have the honor to transmit to the House of Representatives
the copy of a letter to me, from the Commissioner of the Revenue,
on the subject of a return required by an order of the House, of
March last, respecting the revenue arising from spirits distilled
within the United States, and from stills. This letter explains
certain obstacles which still postpone a compliance with that
order, notwithstanding strenuous exertions to be prepared to
fulfil it.

It is hoped that the House, sensible of the embarrassments

which impede the complete arrangement of this branch of the

public revenue, will make due allowances for a delay, which, is

unavoidable, and which will be terminated as speedily as possible.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your most obedient and

Most humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
The Honorable the Speaker

of the House, of Representatives.

JEt. 37.] SPIRITS, DOMESTIC. 443

Treasury Department, Revenue Office, January 6th, 1794.

Sir:

The House of Eepresentatives having directed, in March last,
that a return, exhibiting certain details relative to the revenue
arising from spirits distilled in the United States and from
stills, should be made to them by you on the first Monday of the
current month, I have the honor to reiterate to you the measures
which have been taken to procure, in time, the necessary materials.

On the fifteenth day of March last, a number of printed copies
of the resolution of the House was transmitted to each of the
supervisors, annexed to an equal proportion of copies of instruc-
tions from this office, calculated to produce immediate attention
to the subject, and a punctual transmission of the requisite docu-
ments. It appeared expedient to prepare a considerable number
of copies of the letter containing the resolution and the instruc-
tions, in order to facilitate and expedite' the communications from
the supervisors to the subordinate officers in their respective dis-
tricts. To insure the earliest attention to the business, copies of
the same were transmitted to certain of those subordinate officers,
who, from the residence of their respective supervisors, were sub-
jected to delays and hazards in their official correspondence.

Although it was obvious, on the perusal of the resolution of
the House of Eepresentatives, that a punctual transmission of
the ordinary returns and accounts, relative to this branch of the
revenue, would enable the treasury to make up the required
document; yet it appeared absolutely necessary, from obvious
considerations, that it should be the subject of particular com-
munication and instruction.

Notwithstanding these measures, and other subsequent requi-
sitions of a like nature, it does not appear to have been within
the power of several of the supervisors to transmit either the
ordinary returns and accounts of the revenue business, for the
necessary term (which ended on the 30th of June last), nor the
occasional documents, conforming with the views of the House,
and designated in the accompanying instructions from this office.

It is necessary, in justice to some of the supervisors, to

444 HAMILTON'S WORKS

[Mr. 37.

observe that the impediments are partly the opposition to the
revenue from a very small proportion of the citizens of the
United States, and partly the intrinsic difficulties attending the
collection of the numerous small returns of the duty accruing on
stills and on spirits, distilled in places other than cities, towns,
and villages, under the existing provisions of the laws relative
thereto.

I have the honor to be, with great respect, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,

. • '

Tench Coxe,

Commissioner of the Revenue.
The Secretary of the Treasury.

BALANCE IN THE TEEASUEY, AND DOMESTIC

LOANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, February 5, 1794.

Treasury Department, February 4, 1794.
The Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to an order of the House
of Eepresentatives, of the 30th of January last, respectfully re-
ports as follows :

The statement A, herewith transmitted, shows the moneys
now in the treasury, and (as far as official documents hitherto
received furnish information) such further sums as may be ex-
pected to come into it before the first day of April next, and the
probable demands upon the treasury to that time, exhibiting a
deficiency for satisfying those demands, equal to 621,294 dollars
and eighteen cents.

It is to be observed that no materials, of which the treasury
can be possessed, will, at any time, present a view definitively
exact of the matters to which this statement relates. The time
requisite for transmission will always occasion a considerable
arrear of returns, necessary to ascertain what moneys are to be

At. 37.] BALANCE IN TREASURY, ETC. 445

expected within a given period : for example, it is found that the
sum usually outstanding, in bonds, is about two and half millions
of dollars ; yet the returns received at any period rarely exhibit,
beforehand, more than a million and a half. How the remainder
will distribute itself, as to the times of payment, can never even
be conjectured, further than as it is known that, from the course
of importations, and of the credits allowed, the fall and winter
are the periods of the principal receipts on account of the duties.

So, likewise, the disbursements to be made, within a given
period, are, in a degree, liable to uncertainty ; as in the case of
the sum stated to be payable to foreign officers. It is altogether
casual whether the whole, or what proportion of it, will be called
for within the period. Similar, though not equal uncertainty
attends the sum stated for the War Department.

The Secretary begs leave to add, for the more full informa-
tion of the House, that the sums expected to be received, during
the second quarter of this year, are still more inadequate to the
probable expenditure, than those of the current quafter to its
expenditure. The last accounts from Amsterdam strengthen the
probability that a million of florins must be remitted from hence,
towards the payment of an instalment of the capital of the Dutch
debt, payable on the first of June.

The only pending domestic loans are, viz :

1. One made of the Bank of the United States, by

virtue of the act, entitled " An act for raising
a further sum of money for the protection of
the frontiers, and for other purposes therein
mentioned," passed the 2d day of May, 1792, $400,000

2. Another made of the same bank, by virtue of

the act, entitled "An act for making appro-
priations for the support of Government, for •
the year 1793," passed the 28th of February,
1793, - - ... 800,000

Of which the following reimbursements
have been made, viz :

1,200,000

446 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

On account of the first mentioned loan, $100,000

On account of the last mentioned loan, 600,000

700,000

Balance still due, - - $500,000

Both these loans are at a rate of five per cent, interest ; the
first has no definite term of reimbursement; the second was
reimbursable by instalments at fixed periods, the last of which
becomes due the first of March ensuing, and is therefore com-
prised in the statement A.

All which is respectfully submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

PUBLIC DEBT AND EECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES.

Communicated to the Senate, February 10, 1794.

Treasury Department, February 6, 1794.

Sir:

Having made the necessary examination into the means
possessed by the treasury, for complying with a late order of
the Senate, and of the time which would be requisite for prepar-
ing them, I have the honor now to communicate the result.

Several custom house returns of exports, amounting to a
large sum, having been rendered for a term longer than a
quarter, it is found impossible to make up that return for the
twelve months, directed by the Senate, in the first paragraph. A
statement, however, for one year, differing therefrom only in one
quarter, is nearly matured. It can be completed in a few days
after the receipt of a quarterly return for the port of Philadelphia,
the custom house business of which was exceedingly deranged
by the late malady.

The detailed statement of imports, for the year ending on the
30th day of June, 1792, required by the second paragraph, can

jEt. 37.] public debt, etc. 447

be made up in about two months, by suspending the formation
of that for the year ending with September, 1792, which, in the
course of the treasury business, was in preparation, and would
have been completed in a few days. This will require eight
extra clerks for two months, and will produce an additional
expense of about six or seven hundred dollars.

The detailed statement of imports, for the year ending on the
30th of June last, also required by the second paragraph, cannot
be made up at present, for want of the returns from the custom
houses.

The returns of tonnage, in the old form, will exhibit what is
required by the third paragraph, and can be made out in the
proper office in a short time.

The two sets of tonnage, required by the fourth paragraph,
can be made out in about six weeks after the preceding docu-
ments shall be completed, as they can be matured at the same
time, by employing four more extra clerks, at an expense of
about two hundred and fifty dollars.

The Senate will perceive, from this, the state of the business,
and will judge whether it is expedient to pursue it in the form
contemplated by the order. Such of the matters required, as
can go on without additional expense, or the derangement of
what is already on hand, are in train. And if no revocation of
the order is speedily received, the other objects, as far as they
are practicable, will also be prosecuted. But I feel it a duty to
use the liberty of taking the present occasion to remark, that it
is extremely to be desired that the two Houses of the Legislature
could fix upon a plan for regulating the returns which they
would choose to have made to them periodically, from the
treasury, that the business might be prosecuted in conformity to
that plan. Congress would then have the information which
they may deem useful, and the treasury could be prepared,
systematically, to furnish it, without any derangement of the
current course of its operation, and without an unnecessary in-
crease of expense. Occasional and desultory calls, frequently
made for returns and statements, which involve complicated
and elaborate investigations, and much clerkship, interfere more

448 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

materially with the regular conducting of the public business,
than can easily be imagined, except by those who have the pro-
gress of it immediately under their eye. They oblige the prin-
cipal officers and the most expert clerks to transfer so much of
their attention from the ordinary and indispensable operations of
the Department, as must render it impossible (if the practice
should continue in the same degree in which it has for some time
existed) for the officers of the Department to be responsible for
the orderly, punctual, and efficacious execution of its primary
and most essential objects. This conclusion has so pressed itself
urjon me, from experience, that I have thought it incumbent
upon me to submit these reflections to the consideration of the
Senate.

With perfect respect, &c.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

The Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

LOAN.

Communicated to the House of Representatives. February 25, 1794.

Mr. Sedgwick, from the Committee appointed to report whether
any, and what, sum may be necessary to be loaned, for the
purpose of carrying on the public service, for the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-four, made the following
report :

That, in their opinion, it is expedient that the President be
authorized to borrow, on the credit of the United States, a sum
not exeeding one million dollars, if, in his opinion, the public
service shall require it.

Mt. 37.] LOAN. 449

Philadelphia, February 22d, 1794.

Sir :

A committee of the House of Representatives, having in
charge "to report whether any, and what, sum may be necessary
to be loaned, for the purpose of carrying on the public service,
for the year 1794," have directed me to request of you answers
to the following questions :

1. Whether money collected on account of the United States,
and deposited in banks, is, from the time of deposit, considered
as in the treasury ?

2. Are any, and, if any, what, means necessary to subject
money, so deposited, to the control of the Treasurer ?

3. In case money, so deposited, is. not considered as in the
treasury from the time of deposit, who is, from that time, until
it passes in the treasury, responsible to the United States ?

4. Is any money now so deposited, and, if any, is the pro-
bable amount such as to render a present provision for a loan,
inexpedient or unnecessary ?

With much esteem, &c.

Theodore Sedgwick.
The Honorable the Secretary
of the Treasury.

Treasury Department, February 25, 1794.

Sir:

The following are answers to the questions stated in your
letter of the 22d instant, viz :

Answer to question the first.

All moneys collected on account of the United States, and de-
posited in banks, to the credit of the Treasurer, are considered as in the
treasury from the time of deposit. The steady course, with regard
to the standing revenue is, that the money deposited in banks
passes immediately to the credit of the Treasurer. But it is
necessary, to discharge the payers, that receipts of the Treasurer
should be endorsed upon warrants signed by the Secretary,

450 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 37.

countersigned by the Comptroller, and registered by the Register,
which is the course regularly observed.
Answer to question the second.

After moneys are deposited in banks to the credit of the
Treasurer, they are in his control, though they may not legally
be disbursed but upon warrants of the above description. If de-
posited without passing, in the first instance, to the credit of the
Treasurer, the means used for placing them in his custody and
disposal, are warrants of the like kind.
Answer to question the third.

In respect to any moneys of the United States deposited in
banks, but not passed to the credit of the Treasurer, the banks
are considered as directly responsible to the United States ; in
the case of deposits to the credit of the Treasurer, they are re-
sponsible, in the first instance, to him ; ultimately, to the United
States.

Answer to question the fourth.

Only two cases are recollected, in which moneys of the
United States may be considered as having been deposited in
bank, without passing, in the first instance, in the account of the
Treasurer. These relate —

1. To the proceeds of foreign bills sold for the Government,
and received by the bank (all accounts of Avhich are finally closed).

2. To the sum of two hundred thousand dollars, being the
only sum now so deposited, which arises from the last loan had
of the bank. It is left (subject to the eventual decision of the
Legislature) as an offset against the second instalment of the two
million loan from the bank. The effect of the operation will be
this : An interest of six per cent., payable to the bank, upon the
instalment, will be extinguished, from the 31st of December last,
by an interest of five per cent., payable to the bank, upon the
sum borrowed of itself, and left in deposit. And it has been
endeavored, thereby, to preserve consistency and regularity in
the arrangements of the treasury. The first instalment, by leav-
ing in deposit an equal sum of the proceeds of foreign bills, was
considered as effected on the 31st of December, 1792, though
there was not power to consummate the payment till some months

JEt. 37.] LOAN. 451

after. Hence it becomes regular, that each succeeding instalment
should be paid on the last of December of each year. The pro-
visional measure thus adopted, was the only expedient in the
power of the treasury, to reconcile, as far as practicable, conside-
rations relative to the public interest and credit, with legality of
procedure. Neither the sum in deposit, on the one hand, nor
the instalment payable to the bank, on the other, is brought
into the probable state of cash, lately presented to the House of
Eepresentatives, because they balance each other, and leave the
result the same.

There are no existing sources from which moneys can come
into bank, on account of the United States, except from the pro-
ceeds of the revenue, which, as far as known, are comprised in
the statement before the House of Eepresentatives. So that
there is no resource, but a loan, which can supply the deficit of
a receipt, in the course of the present and succeeding quarter,
compared with the .expenditure. Without one, a failure in the
public payments is inevitable.

If what has been said should not give the committee all the
light they desire, it is imagined that personal explanations would
lead more fully to their object, than the course of written in-
terrogatories and answers, which can only partially embrace the
subject, and may procrastinate a right understanding of it.

I am, sir, &c.

Alexander Hamilton.
Theodore Sedgwick, Esq.

Chairman of a Committee.

LOAN.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, April 25, 1794.

Treasury Department, April 25, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to the order of the
House of Eepresentatives of the 28th of February, 1794,
respectfully makes the following report :

The paper A, herewith transmitted, is a copy of the contract

452 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

■with the Bank of the United States, respecting the loan of two
millions of dollars, had of that institution, in conformity with a
provision for that purpose, in the act by which it is incorporated.

According to the intent of this contract, as understood by
the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Bank, the first instal-
ment of 200,000 dollars, was payable on the 1st of January,
1793. The Secretary, in a report to the House of representa-
tives, of the 30th of November, 1792, submitted a provision for
reimbursing the loan to the Bank. None was made till the time
for reimbursing the first instalment, as understood between the
treasury and the Bank, had elapsed. On the 1st of January,
1793, the Secretary, by letter, informed the Bank, that he would
leave in deposit, as an offset against that instalment, a sum of
200,000 dollars, till legislative provision should be made concern-
ing the matter. An act of Congress, of the 2d March, 1793,
authorized the payment of this instalment, out of the proceeds
of the foreign loans. But the then Attorney General being of
opinion that, upon the legal construction of the contract, com-
pared with the words of the act, the payment could not be made
till the 25th of June, 1793, the completion of the business ac-
cordingly remained suspended till the 20th of July following,
when a warrant issued to pay over the proceeds of the bills
in deposit, to the treasurer, and another warrant, to pay an
equal sum to the Bank. Interest upon the instalment ceased
on the 31st of December, 1792, by virtue of the deposit.

The foregoing transaction confirmed the principle of paying
each instalment on the last day of the year. The Secretary, in
a report to the House of Eepresentatives, of the 21st December,
1793, submitted a proposition for making provision for the second
instalment. None having been made, he, by a letter to the Bank,
of the 31st of December, 1793, informed that the Legislature,
not having yet had leisure to provide for the second instalment
of the two million loan, he had concluded to suspend calling
into the treasury the last instalment of a loan of 800,000 dollars,
which had been contracted with the Bank ; and that that sum
would remain in deposit, as an offset against the first mentioned
instalment, till provision should be made by law. This business

Mt. 37.] LOAN. 453

still remains in the same situation, no provision having yet been
made by law ; but the effect is to arrest interest, at the rate of
six per cent, upon the sum payable to the Bank, by a fund ob-
tained from the Bank itself, bearing an interest of only 5 per
cent.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

Agreement between Alexander Hamilton, Secretary of the Treasury of
the United States, by virtue of authority from the President of the
United States, on behalf of the United States, of the one part, and
the President, Directors, and Company, of the Bank of the United
States, of the other part.

Whereas, in and by the act, entitled " An act to incorporate
the subscribers to the Bank of the United States," it is, among
other things, enacted, in the words following: "That it shall be
lawful for the President of the United States, at any time or
times, within eighteen months after the first day of April next,
to cause a subscription to be made to the stock of the said cor-
poration, as part of the aforesaid capital stock of ten millions of
dollars, on behalf of the United States, to an amount not
exceeding two millions of dollars, to be paid out of the mo-
neys which shall be borrowed by virtue of either of the
acts, the one entitled ' An act making provision for the debt
of the United States,' and the other entitled ' An act mak-
ing provision for the reduction of the public debt;' borrow-
ing of the bank an equal sum to be applied to the pur-
poses for which the said moneys shall have been procured,
reimbursable in ten years, by equal annual instalments, or at
any time sooner, or in any greater proportions, that the Govern-
ment may think fit :"

And whereas, for carrying into execution the said provision,

454 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 37.

the President by writing under his hand, bearing date the ninth
day of May last past, did authorize the said Secretary to sub-
scribe by one or more subscriptions, on behalf, and in the name,
of the United States, for such number of shares of and in the
capital stock of the said coloration, as, together, should amount
to two millions of dollars ; and the same to pay for, out of any
moneys which have been, or shall be, borrowed, by virtue of
either of the acts, the one entitled " An act making provision for
the debt of the United States," and the other entitled " An act
making provision for the reduction of the public debt ;" and did
further authorize the said Secretary to borrow of the said corpo-
ration, for, and on account of, the United States, an equal sum,
namely, two millions of dollars, to be applied to the same pur-
poses for which the said moneys shall have been procured, and
to be reimbursable in ten years, by equal annual instalments, or
at any time sooner, or in any greater proportions that the Govern-
ment may think fit : Provided, That the interest thereof should
not exceed the rate of six per centum per annum ; and did also
empower the said Secretary to enter into, and conclude with, the
said corporation, such contracts and agreements as should be ne-
cessary for fulfilling the purposes aforesaid, promising to ratify
whatever he should lawfully do in the premises :

Now, therefore, these presents witness, That it hath been agreed,
and it is hereby agreed, by and between the parties aforesaid, as
follows, to wit:

First. The said Secretary of the Treasury, forthwith,' after
the execution of these presents, shall, pursuant to the authority
to him given, as aforesaid, subscribe, in some proper book, at the
said bank, in the name, and on behalf of, the United States, for
five thousand shares of, and in the capital stock of, the said cor-
poration.

Secondly. The subscription, so to be made, shall be deemed
to have been made on the 20th day of December last past, and
the said United States shall be deemed to have become, on the
said day, and shall be, proprietors of the said five thousand shares
of and in the said capital stock, subject to the conditions and
agreements hereinafter specified.

Mt. 37.] LOAN. 455

Thirdly. The amount of the said five thousand shares, name-
ly, two millions of dollars, shall be payable in moieties ; one
moiety upon the day of the execution of these presents, the
other moiety on the first day of July next.

Fourthly. The said corporation, upon the payment of each of
the said moieties, shall forthwith lend, advance, and pay, a sum
equal to such moiety to the United States, to bear an interest at
the rate of six per centum per annum, subject to the terms of
reimbursement in the act aforesaid specified.

Fifthly. As the dividend upon the said first moiety will begin
to accrue on the said 20th day of December last past, the interest
upon the loan which shall be first made, pursuant to the article
next preceding, that is to say, upon the principal sum of one
million of dollars, shall begin to accrue upon the said 20th day
of December last, and the interest upon, the said second loan of
one million of dollars, shall begin to accrue upon the said first
day of July next.

Sixthly. The interest upon the said loans shall be payable
and paid half-yearly, that is to say, th* first half-yearly payment
shall be made on the first day of July next, and thereafter a half-
yearly payment shall be made on the first days of January and
July, in each year, until the final reimbursement* of the said
loans.

In testimony whereof, the said Secretary hath hereunto sub-
scribed his hand, and caused to be affixed the seal of the
Treasury of the United States, and the said President, Di-
rectors, and Company, have hereunto caused to be affixed
the seal of the said corporation. Done at Philadelphia, the
twenty-fifth day of June, in the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-two.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
Thos. Willing, President.
Attest, John Kean, Cashier.

456 HAMILTON'S WORKS. . [Mt. 38.

PUBLIC CREDIT.

Communicated to the Senate, January 16 and 21, 1795.

Treasury Department, January 16th, 1795.

Sir:

I beg leave, through you, to inform the Senate, that, pur-
suant to the second section of the act establishing the Treasury
Department, which expressly makes it the duty of the Secretary
of the Treasury, "to digest and prepare plans for the improve-
ment and management of the revenue, and for the support of
public credit," I have digested and prepared a plan, on the basis
of the actual revenues, for the further support of public credit,
which is ready for communication to the Senate.

This plan embraces a further provision for the subscribed
debt ; a provision for converting, with the consent of the credit-
ors, the foreign into the domestic debt ; a provision for augment-
ing the sinking fund, so «as to render it commensurate with the
entire debt of the United States ; suggestions for giving effect to
the act of the last session, granting a million of dollars for the
purposes of foreign intercourse ; with some auxiliary propositions.
With perfect respect, I have the honor to be,
Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.
To the Yice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

Treasury Department, January 20, 1795.

Sir:

Agreeably to the order of the Senate, I have the honor to
transmit the plan for the support of public credit, announced
in my letter of the 16th instant, together with sundry statements
connected with it ; and to be

Your most obedient and humble servant,

A. Hamilton.
To the Yice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.

Mr. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 457

The Secretary of the Treasury respectfully makes the following
report to the Senate :

The President of the United States, with that provident con-
cern for the public welfare which characteriezs all his conduct,
was pleased, in his speech to the two Houses of Congress, at the
opening of the present session, to invite their attention to the
adoption of a definitive plan for the redemption of the public debt,
and to the consummation of whatsoever may remain unfinished of
our system of public credit, in order to place that credit, as far as
may be practicable, on grounds which cannot be disturbed, and to
prevent that progressive accumulation of debt, which must ultimately
endanger all government.

It was, at the same time, very justly intimated, that the
period which has elapsed since the commencement of our fiscal
measures (now more than four years), has so far developed our
resources, as to open the way to the important work. And it is
matter of solid consolation, that the result, presenting a state of
our finances, prosperous beyond expectation, solicits the public
councils to enter, with zeal and decision, upon measures com-
mensurate with the greatness of the interests to be promoted.

Under the influence of this conviction, in conformity with the
suggestions of the President, and pursuant to the duty which the
constitution of the department, as by law established, enjoins
upon the Secretary of the Treasury, he has employed himself in
digesting and preparing the materials of a plan for the attain-
ment of the invaluable ends which are recommended. And he
now respectfully submits them to the consideration of Congress.

Towards a clear and distinct conception of the means neces-
sary to the accomplishment of those ends, it will be useful, in the
first place, to review what has been heretofore done. This will
be presented under three heads :

I. The revenues which have been established ;

II. The provisions for funding the debt, and for the pay-
ment of interest upon it ;

c 30

458 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \Mt. 38.

III. The provisions • for reimbursing and extinguishing the
debt.

I. The revenues which have been established appear in the
following acts :

1st. " An act for laying a duty on goods, wares, and mer-
chandises, imported into the United States," passed June the
1st, 1789. This act, as its title imports, lays various specific and
ad valorem rates on all articles (with exception of a few useful to
agriculture and manufactures) imported from foreign countries.
The lowest ad valorem rate is five per cent., with a discount of
ten per cent, in favor of our own bottoms. The duration assigned
these duties was the end of the session of Congress next succeed-
ing the first day of June, 1796.

2d. " An act imposing duties on tonnage," passed July 20,
1789.

This act lays various rates of duty on the tonnage of ships
and vessels entered in the United States from foreign countries,
and, in certain cases, in one part of the United States from
another.

Its duration was indefinite, no limit having been assigned.

3d. " An act imposing duties on the tonnage of ships and ves-
sels," passed July 20, 1790.

This act is a substitute for the one last mentioned, preserving
the same rates of duty, but applying them, in some instances,
differently. It is, like the former, of indefinite duration.

4th. "An act making further provision for the payment of
the debts of the United States," passed August 10, 1790.

This act repeals, after the last of December, 1790, the duties
on imported articles, laid by the act above cited, and substitutes
new, and generally increased, rates, specific and ad valorem.

The lowest ad valorem rate in this, as in the former act, is
five per cent. ; but the number of articles to which it applies, is
much narrowed ; and, instead of a discount in favor of our own
bottoms, an addition of ten per cent, is made, to the disadvantage
of foreign bottoms.

The number of free articles is somewhat extended, in fur-
ther encouragement of agriculture and manufactures.

,Et.38.] public credit. 459

It is declared, that the duties laid by this act shall continue
till the debts and purposes for which they are appropriated shall be
satisfied; reserving, however, a right to Congress to substitute
other duties or taxes of equal value.

5th. " An act to incorporate the subscribers to the Bank of
the United States," passed the 25th of February, 1791.

The second section of this act authorizes the President to
cause a subscription to be made to the stock of the bank, on
account of the United States, to the amount of two millions of
dollars ; and, with a view to the accomplishment of that object^
to borrow of the bank two millions of dollars, to be reimbursed
in ten equal yearly instalments.

The difference between the interest payable on the loan, and
the dividends on the stock, constitutes an item of annual income
to the United States. It is unappropriated.

6th. " An act repealing, after the last day of June next, the
duties heretofore laid upon distilled spirits imported from abroad,
and laying others in their stead ; and, also, upon spirits distilled
within the United States, and for appropriating the same," passed
the 3d of March, 1791.

This act, in conformity with its title, repeals, after June, 1791,
the duties on imported spirits, laid by the act of the 10th of Au-
gust, 1790, and establishes, in lieu of them, higher rates, namely,
from twenty to forty cents per gallon, according to proof. It
also lays duties, to commence at the same time, upon spirits dis-
tilled within the United States ; namely, on those from foreign
materials, from eleven to thirty cents, according to proof; on
those from domestic materials, if distilled in cities, towns, or vil-
lages, from nine to twenty-five cents per gallon, according to
proof; if distilled in other places, it imposes a yearly rate of
sixty cents per gallon of the capacity of each still, with an option
to the distiller to keep and render an account of the produce of
his still, and to pay nine cents per gallon of the quantity of
spirits distilled therein.

These duties are appropriated, primarily, in the same manner,
and to the same purposes, as those laid on imported articles by the act
of the 10th August, 1790, and. are to continue for the same time, with

460 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38,

the like reservation of a right to substitute other duties or taxes
of equal value. There is a further appropriation, which will be
noticed hereafter.

7th. " An act for raising a further sum of money for the pro-
tection of the frontiers, and for other purposes therein men-
tioned," passed May 2, 1792.

This act repeals, after June, 1792, the former duties on a num-
ber of imported articles, and establishes higher duties in their
stead.

It extends, among other things, the duties on foreign distilled
spirits, laying on those made from grain 28 to 50 cents per gallon ;
on others, 25 to 46 cents per gallon. The appropriation and dura-
tion of these new duties are conformable and co-extensive with those
repealed. There is, likewise, an addition of 2| per cent, to that
class of duties ad valorem, which, before, was rated at 5 per
cent. ; but this additional duty is limited to the term of two
years.

Out of the surplus of these duties, after satisfying the perma-
nent appropriations, certain gross sums are appropriated for the
service of the War Department.

8th. " An act concerning the duties on spirits distilled within
the United States," passed May 8, 1792.

This act repeals, after the last day of June, 1792, the former
duties on spirits distilled within the United States, and on stills,
and, instead of them, establishes lower duties, namely, on those
made of foreign materials, from 10 to 25 cents per gallon, accord-
ing to proof; on those made of domestic materials, if in cities,
towns, or villages, or at distilleries, where the stills, singly or
together, are of the capacity of 400 gallons, or upwards, from 7 to
18 cents per gallon, of the spirits distilled, according to proof;
if made in other places, or at distilleries where the stills are of
inferior capacity, the yearly rate of 54 cents per gallon, of the
capacity of each still. A new option is given to the distiller
which is, instead of paying the yearly rate, to take out licenses
for the monthly employment of his stills, paying, each time, 10
cents per gallon of the capacity of each still.

These new duties are appropriated in the same manner, and for

jEt.38.] public credit. 461

the same purposes, and are to continue for the same time, as those for
which they are substitutes : and to make good any deficiency which,
may accrue from lowering the rates, the surplus of the duties im-
posed by the act of the second of the same month, is appro-
priated.

" An act to promote the progress of useful arts, and to repeal
the act heretofore made for that purpose," passed February 21,
1793.

This act ordains certain fees to be paid, by persons to whom
patents are granted, for inventions, discoveries, or improvements,
and appropriates them to the purpose of defraying clerk hire in the
Department of State. Its duration is indefinite.

9th. "An act to establish the Post Office and post roads,
within the United States," passed May 8, 1794.

This act establishes, to commence on the first of June follow-
ing, various rates of postage on letters, and directs that the Post-
master shall render to the Treasury Department, a quarterly
account of receipts and expenditures, and shall pay, quarterly,
into the treasury, the balance in his hands.

The duration of this act is, also, indefinite. It contains no
appropriation of the sums paid into the treasury.

10th. " An act laying duties upon carriages, for the convey-
ance of persons," passed June 5, 1794.

This act lays different rates of duty, from ten dollars down to
one dollar, upon carriages for the conveyance of persons, kept by or
for any person, for his or her own use, or to be let to hire, or for
the conveying of passengers ; and to guard against misapprehen-
sion, declares, that the duties shall not be construed to extend to
any carriage actually and chiefly employed in husbandry, or for the
transporting or carrying of goods, wares, merchandise, produce, or
commodities.

The duration of the duties is limited to the end of the session
of Congress which shall be next after the term of two years,
from the time of passing the act. It contains no appropriation.

11th. " An act laying duties on licenses for selling wines and
foreign distilled spirituous liquors, by retail," passed June 5, 1794.

This act requires, that every retail dealer in wines, shall take

462 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 38.

out a yearly license, and shall pay for it a duty of five dollars ;
and that every retail dealer in foreign distilled spirituous liquors,
shall also take out a yearly license, and pay for it a duty of five
dollars. It defines a retail dealer in wines, to be a person who
deals in the selling of wines, to be carried or sent out of the house,
building, or place of his or her dwelling, in less quantities at one
time than thirty gallons, except in the original cask, case, box, or
package, in which it is imported. A retail dealer of spirituous
liquors to be a person who shall deal in the selling of 'foreign dis-
tilled spirituous liquors, to be carried or sent out of the house, build-
ing, or place of his or her dwelling, in less quantities than twenty
gallons, at one time. No difference is made between the dealer
in several kinds of wines, or several kinds of foreign distilled
liquors, and the dealer in one kind.

The same duration is assigned to this act, as to the one last
cited. It is equally without an appropriation.

12th. " An act laying certain duties upon snuff and refined
sugar," passed June 5, 1794.

This act lays a duty of eight cents per pound on all snuff
which, after the 30th of September, 1794, should be manufac-
tured within the United States, and of two cents per pound on
all sugar which, after that day, should be refined within the
United States. The remark made upon the two last recited acts,
is applicable to this, as to the duration of the duties, and the
appropriation of their proceeds.

13th. " An act laying additional duties on goods, wares, and
merchandises, imported into the United States," passed June 7,
1794.

This act lays upon sundry enumerated articles, on their im-
portation from foreign countries, certain specific and ad valorem
rates of duty, in addition to those before charged upon them, and
adds generally, a duty of two and a half per centum on all that
class of articles which were before chargeable with seven and a
half per centum ad valorem. It also prolongs the temporary two
and a half per centum, laid by the act of May 2, 1792, till the
first of January, 1797, to which period the other duties laid by it
are to continue. It contains no appropriation.

jEt.SS;] public credit. 463

14th. " An act laying duties on property sold at auction,"
passed June 9, 1794.

This act lays a duty on sales at auction, by persons licensed
according to the laws of a State, or this act, prohibiting others
from selling at auction, of one-quarter per cent, of the purchase
money arising from the sale of any right, interest, or estate, in
lands, tenements, or hereditaments, utensils in husbandry, farm-
ing stock, or ships and vessels, of one-half per cent, of the pur-
chase money, arising from the sales of any other goods, chattels,
rights, or credits.

The term of these duties is limited to the end of the session
next after the expiration of two years from the time of passing
the act, which also is without an appropriation.

But, by an act entitled "An act making appropriations for
certain purposes therein expressed," passed the same 9th of June,
1794, certain specific sums, amounting together to 1,292,137 dol-
lars 38 cents, are charged upon the proceeds of the revenues
which are created by the five last mentioned acts, and there is a
reservation made out of them of a sum sufficient to pay the inter-
est of whatever moneys may be borrowed pursuant to the act,
entitled " An act making further provision for the expenses
attending the intercourse of the United States with foreign
nations," &c, passed the 20th of March, 1794, which sum is pledged
for the payment of that interest.

These acts comprehend all the current revenues of the
United States. Their product will appear hereafter.

In addition to them, a fund will be derived from the sale of
the public lands in the "Western territory. And there likewise
occur, from time to time, payments into the treasury on account
of old debts ; but these are too casual, and of too little magni-
tude, to be more than cursorily mentioned.

The lands in the Western territory, of which the Govern-
ment of the United States has acquired the right of soil, are
estimated, in a report of the late Secretary of State, to amount to
21,000,000 of acres. This quantity, at twenty cents per acre, the
price upon former occasions contemplated, would yield a sum of
$4,200,000. But it is believed that it would be unsafe to count

464 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

upon so large a sum. Besides the uncertainty as to the propor-
tion which may be of a saleable quality, and as to the price
which may be obtained for it, the boundary line between the
United States and the Indians is understood to be unsettled
with regard to a large part of the tract on which the computa-
tion is made. If it ultimately yields three millions of dollars, it
will probably equal every reasonable expectation.

II. The provisions for funding the debt, and for payment of
interest upon it, are comprised in the following acts :

1st. " An act making provision for the debt of the United
States," passed August 4, 1790.

This act, commonly called the funding act, contains these
several provisions, viz. :

1. It reserves out of the proceeds of the duties on imports
and tonnage, for the support of the Government of the United
States, and their common defence, the yearly sum of 600,000
dollars.

2. It appropriates so much of the same proceeds as should be
necessary, to the payment of interest on foreign loans, before
that time contracted, or which should afterwards be con-
tracted, for discharging the arrears of interest, and the prin-
cipal of antecedent foreign loans, to continue so appropri-
ated, till the debt created by those loans should be fully dis-
charged.

3. It authorizes the President to borrow any sum or sums,
not exceeding $12,000,000, to discharge the arrears of interest
upon, and the instalments of the principal of the foreign debt,
due and to grow due ; and if to be effected on advantageous terms,
to pay off the whole of that debt ; and further authorizes him
to make such other contracts respecting it as should be found
for the interest of the United States, so that no engagement or
contract should preclude from reimbursing the sums borrowed,
within fifteen years after they should be borrowed.

4. In order to adapt the form of the domestic debt to the
then circumstances of the United States, as far as should be
found practicable, " consistently with good faith and the rights of the

Mt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 465

creditors, which, it truly declares, "could only be done by a volun-
tary loan on their part ," it proposes a loan to the United States,
(directing for that purpose, books for subscriptions to be opened
at the treasury, and by commissioners of loans in the several
States, on the 1st of October, 1790, and to continue for a year),
the sums, subscribed to the loan to be paid in certain enumerated
evidences of the debt of the United States, upon these terms,
viz:

First. That the interest unpaid on the principal of those
evidences, should be computed up to the last of December, 1790.

Second. That, for any sum subscribed and paid in the princi-
pal of the debt, the subscriber should be entitled to one certifi-
cate for a sum equal to two-thirds of the sum subscribed, bearing
an interest of six per cent, per annum, commencing the 1st day
of January, 1791, payable quarter yearly, and subject to redemp-
tion by payments not exceeding, in one year, on account of both
principal and interest, eight dollars upon a hundred of the original
sum so subscribed and paid ; and to another certificate for a sum
equal to the remaining third of that sum, which, after the year
1800, should bear a like interest, payable in like manner, and
subject to a like rate of redemption. But that the United States,
though having a right to redeem in the above-mentioned proportion,
should not be obliged to do it.

Third. That for any sum subscribed and paid in the interest
of the debt, the subscriber should be entitled to a certificate for
a sum equal to the sum subscribed, bearing an interest of three
per cent, per annum, from the said last day of December, 1790,
payable quarter yearly, and redeemable at pleasure, by payment
of the principal.

Fourth. That the new stock created by the said loan, should
be transferable on the books upon which the credit for it should stand
by the proprietor or his attorney ; these books to be either those
kept for the purpose at the treasury, or by commissioners of
loans in the respective States ; a mode being provided for the
transfer from the books at one place to those at another.

Fifth. That the interest should be payable wheresoever the
credit for the stock should exist, when the payment of interest

466 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

should become due ; except that the dividend of interest for any
quarter of a year which should not be demanded before the ex-
piration of a third quarter, should afterwards be demandable
only at the treasury.

• Sixth. That, for the regular payment of the interest on the
several kinds of stock, to arise from the loan, as it should accrue,
including that which is deferred, the proceeds of the public re-
venues, which, before that time, had been, or, during the then
session, should be provided, after reserving, yearly, 600,000
dollars, for the support of the Government of the United States,
and their common defence, and such sum as should be necessary for
payment of interest on the foreign loans before mentioned, should
be, and thereby were, pledged and appropriated, till the final re-
demption of the capital stock.

5. Premising that some of the creditors of the United States
might not think fit to become subscribers to the loan, this act
declares that " nothing contained in it should be construed in any
wise to alter, abridge, or impair the rights of those creditors of the
United States ivho should not subscribe to the loan or the contracts
upon which their respective claims are founded, but that the said
contracts and rights should remain in full force and virtue." And
to obviate all idea of compulsion on the creditors to subscribe, it
allows to non-subscribers, during the pendency of the loan, and
until the end of the year 1791, a rate per centum, on their re-
spective demands, equal to that which is paid to subscribing
creditors; on the sole condition, that the evidences of debt
holden by them, except those which had been issued by the
Register of the Treasury, for the registered debt, should be ex-
changed for other certificates, specifying the specie amount
of those in exchange, for which they were given, and other-
wise of the like tenor with those which had theretofore been
issued by the Eegister of the Treasury, for the registered debt ;
stating, as the grounds of this condition, that some of the cer-
tificates then in circulation, had not been liquidated to specie
value ; that most of them were greatly subject to counterfeit ;
that counterfeits had actually taken place in numerous instances ;
and that embarrassment and imposition might attend the pay-
ment of interest on these certificates in their then form.

Mi. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 467

6. This act likewise proposes another loan, to the amount
of $21,500,000, payable in the principal and interest, indis-
criminately, of the evidences of debt of the respective States,
according to certain quotas, to be conducted in the same man-
ner, and to be open for the same time, as that in the domestic
debt of the United States. The terms of this loan to be :

First. That, for any sum subscribed, the subscriber should
be entitled to one certificate, for a sum equal to four-ninths of
the subscribed sum, bearing an interest of six per centum per
annum, commencing the first day of January, 1791. To another
certificate, for a sum equal to two-ninths of the said subscribed
sum, bearing an interest, after the year 1800, of six per centum
per annum ; and, to a third certificate, for a sum equal to three-
ninths of the said subscribed sum, bearing an interest of three
per centum per annum, commencing on the same first day of
January, 1791 ; the interest, in each case, to be payable in like
manner, and to be subject to the like redemption as that on the
correspondent kinds of stock to be created by this, the said first
mentioned loan. And the stock to be created by this second
loan, to be transferable on the same principles, and in the same
modes, as that produced by the former.

Second. That, for the regular payment of interest on the sev-
eral kinds of stock to arise from this loan, as it should accrue,
including that which is deferred, the proceeds of the public re-
venues, which, before that time, had been, or during the then
session should be, provided, after reserving the aforesaid yearly
sum of $600,000, the sum necessary for payment of interest on the
foreign loans made, and to be made, and the sum necessary fa-
payment of interest on the loan in the domestic debt, should be,
and thereby were, pledged and appropriated ; to continue so
pledged and appropriated until the final redemption of the capital
stock.

7. To secure the due application of these revenues, accord-
ing to the appropriations, an account of them is directed to be
kept, distinct from that of the proceeds of any other revenues,
except such as should be raised to make good a deficiency in
those ; and the faith of the United States is pledged to appropri-

468 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ate additional and permanent funds, for satisfying such de-
ficiency.

8. The proceeds of the sales of lands in the Western terri-
tory, then belonging, or which thereafter should belong, to the
United States, are pledged and appropriated for the discharge
of the debts which the United States then owed, or by virtue of
that act should owe.

There are several collateral and supplementary provisions,
which are omitted, as immaterial to the intended view of the
subject.

2d. " An act repealing, after the last day of June next, the
duties heretofore laid upon distilled spirits, &c," passed the 3d
of March, 1791.

The proceeds of the duties, laid by this act, are made subject
to the same appropriations, and in the same order of priority,
as those contained in the funding act ; and, to secure their due
application, an account is directed to be kept of them, distinct
from that of any other revenues, except those appropriated by
the funding act.

3d. " An act for raising a further sum of money for the pro-
tection of the frontiers, &c," passed May 2d, 1792.

This act, which, as has been before noticed, increased perma-
nently the duties on certain imported articles, and laid a tem-
porary additional duty on some others, appropriates, primarily,
the proceeds of the permanent augmentations, in the same man-
ner, and to the same purposes, as the antecedent duties were
appropriated ; that is, in conformity with the funding act.

4th. " An act concerning the duties on spirits distilled within
the United States," passed May 8th, 1792.

This act, which lowers the duties on spirits distilled within
the United States, and on stills, appropriates the proceeds of the
reduced duties in the same manner as were the former duties ;
and, to make good whatever deficiency might be occasioned by
the reduction of the rates, pledges, as a substitute, the surplus
of the augmented duties laid by the last cited act.

5th. "An act providing for the payment of the second instal-

^!t. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 469

ment due on a loan made of the Bank of the United States,"
passed June 4th, 1794.

This act, in addition to a provision for paying that second
instalment, appropriates so much of the dividends on the stock
which the United States hold in the bank, as should be neces-
sary to the payment of interest on the capital of a loan of
$2,000,000, had of the bank, pursuant to the 11th section of the
act by which it is incorporated. It also fixes the last day of
December, in each year, as the annual period for the payment of
the successive instalments of that loan.

6th. " An act making provision for the payment of the in-
terest on the balances due to certain States," upon a final set-
tlement of accounts between the United States and the individual
States, passed May 30th, 1794.

This act directs that interest shall be allowed and computed
on the balances to creditor States, from the last of December,
1789, to the last of December, 1794; which, being placed to their
credit respectively, shall bear an interest of three per centum,
per annum, from the period last mentioned.

It further directs that the interest on the principal balances,
to be funded agreeably to the terms of the act for the settlement
of accounts, together with the interest upon the arrears of in-
terest, computed on those balances, and forming a new capital,
shall be payable at the offices of the commissioners of loans
within the States to which the balances are respectively due, and
shall be paid quarter yearly, after the last day of December, 1794,
at the same epochs in each year, at which interest is payable, on
the other parts of the funded debt ; to which end, so much of
the proceeds of the duties on imports and tonnage, as may be
necessary, and as were not otherwise previously appropriated, are
appropriated ; and the faith of the United States is pledged to
provide for any deficiency which may happen by additional and
permanent funds.

There are several acts which prolong, from time to time, the
subscriptions in the domestic and State debts, on the same terms
as by the funding act, those in the domestic debt being continued
down to the last day of December, 1794 ; which acts, together with

470 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

the acts particularly cited, comprise all those that relate to the
funding of the public debt, and the payment of interest there-
upon. The result of these acts is exhibited in the tables A, B, C,
and D, which show the amount of the foreign debt ; that of the
funded debt, the probable amount of that which remains un-
funded, of what composed, and the annual amount of interest
upon the different portions of debt, according to contract, and ac-
cording to the plan of this report.

III. The provisions for reimbursing and redeeming the pub-
lic debt, are contained in the following acts, and are as follows,
viz. :

1st. " An act making provision for the debt of the United
States," passed the 4th of August, 1790.

This act, which is the one that regulates the funding of the
debt, by the last section appropriates the proceeds of the sales of
the lands in the Western territory, then belonging, or thereafter
to belong, to the United States, to the sinking or discharging of
the debts for which the United States then were, or by virtue of
that act should be, holden, to be applied solely to that use, until
they should be fully satisfied.

2d. " An act making provision for the reduction of the pub-
lic debt," passed August 12th, 1790.

This act, premising that it is desirable, by all just and pro-
per means, to effect a reduction of the public debt, and that the
application of the surplus revenue to that object, will not only
contribute to this desirable end, but will be beneficial to the
creditors of the United States, by raising the price of their stock,
and be productive of considerable saving to the United States,
enacts —

1. That the surplus of the duties on imports and tonnage, to
the end of the year 1790, shall be applied to the purchase of the
debt of the United States, at its market price, if not exceeding
the par or true value thereof.

2. That the purchases to be made shall be conducted under
the direction of the President of the Senate, the Chief Justice,
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the

JEi. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 471

Attorney General, who, or any three of whom, with the appro-
bation of the President, are authorized to cause them to be made,
in such manner, and under such regulations, as shall appear to
them best calculated to fulfil the intent of this act: Provided
that the same should be made openly, and with due regard to the equal
benefit of the several States.

3. That the accounts of the application of the fund should be
settled as other public accounts, accompanied with returns of the
amount of debt, purchased at the end of each quarter of a year ;
and that a full and exact report of the proceedings of the com-
missioners should be laid before Congress, within the first four-
teen daj^s of each session, including a statement of the disburse-
ments and purchases, specifying the times when, prices at which,
and persons of whom, the purchases were made.

4. That, in addition to this fund, the President should be
authorized to borrow any sum or sums, not exceeding 2,000,000
of dollars, at an interest not exceeding five per centum, to be
applied to purchases of public debt, in like manner, and under
the same direction and regulations as the first mentioned fund :
Provided that, out of the interest of the debt to be purchased, there
should be appropriated, annually, a sum not exceeding eight per
centum of the sums borrowed, towards paying the interest and reim-
bursing the principal of these sums.

But, to guard against the possibility of a deficiency of means
to pay the interest on the debt which was to accrue in the year
1791, authority is given to reserve and apply to that purpose,
out of the first mentioned fund, as much as might be neces-
sary to supply the defect of receipts, during that year, on account
of the duties which should accrue after the year 1790.

3d. " An act repealing, after the last day of June next, the
duties heretofore laid upon distilled spirits, &c," passed the 3d
of March, 1791.

This act appropriates whatever surplus may remain, from
year to year, of the 'proceeds of the duties which it imposes,
after satisfying prior appropriations, to the reduction of the pub-
lic debt, unless such surplus shall be required for the current
public exigencies, and, by special acts of Congress, shall be ap-
propriated thereto.

472 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JE-r.W.

4th. An act supplementary to the act making provision for
the reduction of the public debt," passed the 3d day of March,
1791.

This act declares that the terms of a loan of three millions of
florins, obtained in Holland, bearing five per cent, interest, and
four and a half per cent, for charges, and future loans on the
same terms, should be deemed to be within the meaning of the
act of the 12th of August, 1790.

5th. " An act supplementary to the act making provision for
the debt of the United States," passed May 8, 1792.

This act makes provision for the payment of a debt due to
certain foreign officers who had served the United States (the
interest of which was, by stipulation, payable at Paris), out of
the moneys authorized to be borrowed by the funding act. It
also establishes a permanent sinking fund, to be composed —

1. Of the interest of the public debt purchased, redeemed,
or paid into the treasury, in satisfaction of any debt or demand.

2. Of the surplus, if any, which should remain of moneys ap-
propriated for paying the interest of the public debt, after pay-
ing that interest.

This fund is to be applied, under the direction of the com-
missioners nominated in the act of the 12th of August, with the
like approbation of the President —

First To the purchase of the several species of stock consti-
tuting the debt of the United States, at their respective market
prices, not exceeding the par or true value thereof, and, as
nearly as may be, in equal proportions, until the annual amount
of the fund shall be equal to two per centum of the whole amount
of the outstanding funded stock, bearing a present interest of six per
centum: Thenceforth —

/Second. To the redemption of that stock, according to the right
reserved to the United States, until the whole should be redeemed ;
and, lastly, after such redemption, to the purchase, at its market
price, of any unredeemed debt of the United States ; which pur-
chases are directed to be made at the lowest prices at which they
can be effected by open purchase, or by receiving sealed propo-
sals, to be opened in the presence of the commissioners, or per-

^t. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 473

sons authorized by them to make purchases, and of the persons
making the proposals ; and are to be accounted for at the trea-
sury, and reported to Congress, in the same manner as the pur-
chases before authorized to be made.

6th. " An act making appropriation for the support of Gov-
ernment, for the year 1793."

This act provides that the President of the United States
shall cause so much of the loan made of the Bank of the United
States, pursuant to the 11th section of the act of incorporation,
to be paid off, in sums not less than 50,000 dollars, as, in his
opinion, the state of the treasury may, from time to time, admit,
out of any moneys which may be in the treasury, having due
regard to the exigencies of the Government, and the appropria-
tions made, and to be made, by law.

7th. " An act making provision for the payment of the first
instalment due on a loan made of the Bank of the United
States," passed March 2d, 1793.

This act authorizes the payment of the first instalment of a
loan of two millions of dollars, had of the Bank of the United
States, pursuant to the 11th section of the act by which it is
incorporated, out of the moneys borrowed upon the authority of
the act making provision for the reduction of the public debt.

8th. " An act providing for the payment of the second instal-
ment, due on a loan made of the Bank of the United States,"
passed June 4th, 1794.

This act authorizes the payment of that second instalment, out
of the proceeds of any foreign loans before that time transferred
to the United States. It makes other provisions which have
been noticed under a preceding head.

These acts comprise all the provisions which have been made
for reimbursing and redeeming the debt of the United States.
The result to the last of December, 1794, is presented in the
statement E.

There are two other acts, which, though not falling properly
under either of the foregoing heads, require, from their relation
to the subject, to be brought into view :

1. An act relative to claims against the United States, not
c 31

■
■

474 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

barred by any act of limitation, and which have not been already
adjusted, passed February 12th, 1793.

This act directs that all claims of the description given in the
title shall be presented at the treasury for adjustment, by the 1st
of I ay 1791, or shall be forever after barred ; except those for
loan office certificates, final settlements, indents of interest, Register's
certificates, balances on the books of the treasury, loans of money in
foreign countries, certificates issued under the act, entitled "An act
making provision for the debt of the United States.1'

Such of the claims presented as cannot be admitted in the
course of the treasury, are to be reported to Congress, by the
accounting officers.

Among the claims inadmissible in the ordinary course of the
treasury, is a sum of 90,574 dollars, of the bills of credit, com-
monly called new emission money.

2. An act making further provision for the expenses attend-
ing the intercourse of the United States with foreign nations,
&c, passed March 20th, 1794.

This act appropriates, in addition to former provisions, one
million of dollars for the purposes mentioned in the title, to be
paid out of any moneys which may be in the treasury, not other-
wise appropriated, and to be applied under the direction of the
President of the United States, who is also authorized, if neces-
sary, to borrow the whole, or any part of the sum ; but there is
no special appropriation either for paying the interest or reim-
bursing the principal of the loan.

The act already quoted, of the 9th of June, 1794, entitled
" An act making appropriations for certain purposes therein ex-
pressed," with a view to remedy this defect, appropriates out of
the proceeds of the taxes laid during the last session, such
sum as shall be sufficient to pay the interest on whatever
moneys may be borrowed, pursuant to the act of March 20th,
1794.

The foregoing review of the laws which constitute the fiscal
system of the United States, displays these prominent points as
the leading features of that system :

1st. That all the current revenues of the United States are de-

.Et.38.] public credit. 475

rived from these sources, to wit : Imported articles ; the ton-
nage of ships and vessels ; spirits distilled within the United
States, and stills; the postage of letters ; fees on patents;
dividends of bank stock ; snuff manufactured within the United
States ; sugar refined within the United States ; sales at auc-
tion ; licenses to retail wines and distilled spirits ; carriages
for the conveyance of persons.

2. That, of these revenues, the principal part of the duties
on imported articles, those on the tonnage of ships and vessels,
those on distilled spirits and stills, those on the postage of letters,
patent fees, the dividends on bank stock, are permanent (the
three first being commensurate with the existence of the debt for
the payment of the interest of which they are pledged, the fourth
and fifth having no limit assigned in the laws, and the last being
commensurate with the duration of the property in the stock),
all the others temporary; being limited to continue no longer
than till the end of the session of Congress next after the expi-
ration of two years from the respective times of passing the laws
which established them, except the temporary duties on imports
and tonnage, which are to continue till the 1st of January,
1797.

3d. That the permanent duties on imported articles, the ton-
nage duties, the duties on spirits distilled within the United
States, and on stills, are subject to these permanent dispositions :

1. To an annual reservation of 600,000 dollars, for the support
of the Government of the United States and their common
defence.

2. To an appropriation of so much as may be necessary to
pay the interest on the foreign loans, provided for by the fund-
ing act.

3. To an appropriation of so much as may be necessary to pay
the interest on the stock created by the loan in domestic debt, or
more properly in the original debt of the United States.

4. To an appropriation of so much as may be necessary to
discharge the interest on the stock created by the loan in the
dtbts of the respective States.

5. To an appropriation of so much as may be necessary to

476 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

pay the interest on the balances due to creditor States, which
dispositions establish priorities, according to the order in which
they are here enumerated.

4th. That the surplus, if any, of the duties on spirits distilled
within the United States, and on stills, has an ultimate appro-
priation, that is, to the reduction of the public debt, but that the
surpluses of the other duties have no such ultimate appropriation.

5th. That the duties on the postage of letters, and the net
dividend on bank stock, have no permanent or particular appro-
priation.

6th. That the temporary duties are charged with a specific
sum of 1,292,137 dollars and 38 cents; and with the payment of
interest on a sum of 1,000,000 of dollars, authorized to be borrowed
for the expenses of foreign intercourse.

7t*h. That the whole of the foreign debt, and all that part of
the domestic debt, being now nearly the whole, which consists
of the stock created by the loans in the original debt of the
United States, and in the particular debts of the several States,
and by the balances due to creditor States, are bottomed on cer-
tain specified revenues, pledged or hypothecated for the payment of
the interest upon them; and thus constitute the funded debt of
the United States.

8th. That the funded domestic debt of the United States
consists of three species of stock, one bearing a present interest
of six per cent, per annum ; another bearing a like interest after
the year 1800 ; a third bearing a present interest of three per
centum per annum : the interest in each case payable quarter yearly.

9th. That the six per cent, stock, present and deferred, can
be redeemed in no greater proportion than at the rate of eight
per centum per annum of the original sum, on account both of
principal and interest ; but the three per cent, stock is redeem-
able at pleasure.

10th. That the provision for subscribing to the loan in do-
mestic debt, expired on the last of December, 1794, and that no
further provision has been made for the unsubscribed residue.

11th. That the funding act expressly confirms the contracts and
rights of the creditors of the United States, who shall not think

iET.38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 477

jit to subscribe to the loan, and gives an expectation to them of fur-
ther and other arrangements, upon the event of the propositions
made to them.

12th. That the proceeds of all the lands of the United States
in the Western territory are appropriated to the redemption of
all that part of the public debt, for which, prior to the funding
act, or by virtue thereof the United States were or are liable.

13th. That, in addition to this, a regular sinking fund has
been successively constituted, to be applied under the direction
of five principal officers of the United States, with the approba-
tion of the President, hitherto composed of three parts : 1st.
The surplus of the duties on imports and tonnage to the end of
1790. 2dly. The proceeds of loans not exceeding 2,000,000 of
dollars, authorized to be borrowed for the purpose (these two
funds to be invested in purchases) ; and 3dly (in which the two
former resolve themselves), the interest on the public debt, pur-
chased, redeemed or paid into the treasury, together with the sur-
pluses, if any, of the moneys appropriated for interest, to be
applied first to purchases of the debt, till the fund is equal to two
per centum of the outstanding stock, bearing a present interest of
six per cent. ; second, to the redemption of that stock, and lastly,
to purchases of any unredeemed residue of the public debt. But
there is reserved out of this fund, a sum not exceeding eight per cen-
tum per annum, towards the payment of interest, and reimburs-
ing of the principal of the loans made for purchases of the debt.

To this recapitulation of the leading features of our fiscal
system, it may be useful to add a summary exhibition of certain
results, which appear more in detail, or are deducible from the
tables or statements annexed to this report.

The particulars and amount of the debt of the United States,
are as follow :

Foreign debt, as per statements

B and C, - - $14,599,129 35

Deduct instalment of foreign

debt in the year 1795, to be

paid out of proceeds of 'for-

478 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

eign loans - - - 853,750 00

$13,745,379 35

Funded domestic debt, viz. :

1. Arising from original do-

mestic debt, subscribed

to loan proposed by
funding act :

Stock bearing a present interest

of six per cent. - - $17,912,138 01

Stock bearing a future interest

of ditto, - 8,538,228 97

Stock bearing an interest of 3

per cent. - 12,275,347 55

2. Arising from State debts

assumed :
Stock bearing a present interest

of 6 per cent. - - - 7,908,374 19
Stock bearing a future interest

of ditto, ---. 3,940,608 96
Stock bearing an interest of 3

per cent. - 5,994,115 70

3. Arising from balances to

creditor States :
Stock bearing a present interest

of 6 per cent. - - - $2,345,056 00
Stock bearing a future interest

of ditto, --- - 1,172,528 00
Stock bearing an interest of 3

per cent. - 703,516 80

-$60,789,914 18

Unsubscribed debt, viz. :

Principal, exclusive of Loan
Office certificates, bearing in-
terest on nominal value, - 1,072,583 40

Interest thereupon, including

indents, - - 452,826 74

Principal of Loan Office certifi-

JEt. 38.]

PUBLIC CREDIT. 479

cates, bearing interest on
nominal sum, - - - 27,935 00

Interest thereon, - - - 7,830 00

. $1,561,175 14

Total unredeemed debt, $76,096,468 67

This is exclusive of a sum of $1,400,000 due to the Bank of
the United States, on account of the loan of $2,000,000 had of
that institution, pursuant to the eleventh section of the act by
which it is incorporated, and which is not included in the mass
of the debt, because it is more than counterbalanced by a greater
value in stock. It is also exclusive of those loans which are
temporary anticipations of the revenue.

The particulars and amount of the annual current revenues
of the United States, are as follow :

APPROPRIATED. PERMANENT.

Duties on imports and tonnage,

domestic, - - $4,199,791 67

Duties on distilled spirits and

stills, - - 400,000 00

Fees on patents, - 660 00

UNAPPROPRIATED.

Postage of letters, - - 29,722 16

Surplus dividends on bank

stock, .... 62,500 00

$4,692,673 83

TEMPORARY.

Temporary duties on imports, 1,479,626 91

INTERNAL.

Duties on snuff, refined sugar,
sales at auction, licenses to
retail spirits and wines, car-
riages for conveyance of

persons, - - ' - - 380,000 00

$1,859*626 91

Total annual current revenue, $6,552,300 74

480 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

The particulars and amount of the annual stated expenditure
of the United States, computing the army and navy establish-
ments on the scale of an Indian and Algerine war, are as follows :

Interest on the foreign debt, - - - $638,480 58

Interest on domestic funded debt, - - 2,339,241 50

Interest on unfunded debt, - - - 66,031 10

Interest on temporary loans, - - - 100,000 00
Expenses of the civil' Government, including

foreign intercourse, .... 475,249 53

Expenses of military land service, - - 1,511,975 29

Expenses of military naval service, - - 441,508 80

Miscellany, - ... 109,357 04

Total annual expenditure, $5,681,843 84

This sum is liable to be increased by the interest which will
begin to accrue on the deferred stock the first of January, 1801 ;
being, on the present amount of that stock, 871,401 dollars and
92 cents.

The annual force of the sinking fund, as depending on ascer-
tained funds, may be stated as follows :

Interest for a year, on sums already carried

to its credit, $68,225 55

Interest for a year, on debts of foreign offi-
cers, in a course of payment, including
arrears of interest to be carried to the
credit of this fund, .... 13,439 49

Interest for a year, on the unexpended sur-
plus of the revenues at the end of the
year 1790, being 411,659 dollars 49 cents,
supposing this to be invested, by pur-
chase, in an equal sum of present six
per cent, stock, 24,699 56

$106,364 60
It is further liable to be increased by an investment in pur-

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 481

chases of 865,098 dollars 11 cents, which, together with the sums
from that source already invested in purchases and payments,
will amount to 2,000,000 of dollars, the sum authorized to be
borrowed for purchases of the debt.

But, as this auxiliary depends on an operation, not only future,
but, in some degree, casual, it cannot be taken into an estimate
of the actual strength of the fund.

The proceeds of the sales of Western lands, must, also, be
considered as an eventual resource.

There are other contingent sources of augmentation, not com-
puted, because they are contingent. But, on the other hand, the
fund is liable to be reduced, by a sum reserved out of it for the
payment of principal and interest of the two millions authorized
to be borrowed for purchases, not exceeding eight per centum
per annum.

The sum applicable, in the first instance, to the redemption of
that portion of the funded debt which bears a present interest of
6 per centum, excluding that standing to the credit of the com-
missioners of the sinking fund, is as follows :

Of transferable stock, .... $516,410 24

Of untransferable stock, arising from bal-
ances to creditor States, - - - 46,901 12

$563,311 36

The sum applicable, in the first instance, that is, on the 1st
day of January, 1802, to the redemption of that portion of the
funded debt, now called deferred stock, excluding that standing
to the credit of the commissioners of the sinking fund, will be
as follows :

Of transferable stock, - $249,576 75

Of untransferable stock, arising from bal-
ances to creditor States, - - - 23,450 56

$273,027 31

482 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>E . 38.

These sums would complete the redemption of the whole
amount of the stock to which thej are applicable, within twenty-
three years after the redemption in each case was begun; within
which terms they would discharge the whole of the public debt,
except the foreign debt, the unsubscribed debt, and the three per
cent, stock.

If the redemption of the present 6 per cent, stock commence
the first of January, 1796,' and the redeeming fund be commen-
surate with the whole of the unredeemed stock bearing a present
interest of 6 per cent, and transferable, the revenue set free in the
year 1818, for operations upon the residue of the debt, will be
2,039,394 dollars 36 cents.

If the redemption of the deferred debt commence the first
of January, 1802, when it may rightfully commence, and the
redeeming fund be commensurate with the whole of that stock,
unredeemed and transferable, the revenue set free in the year 1824,
for operations upon the residue of the public debt, if any remain,
will be $998,307 02.

The revenue set free by these successive redemptions, would
be sufficient to redeem the whole of the present foreign debt in
six years ; that is, within a term of twenty-eight years from the
proposed time for commencing the redemption, or the 1st of
January, 1796 ; and, after extinguishing the foreign debt, would
more than discharge the whole of the balances to creditor States,
and the whole of the unfunded debt, in two years more.

If the proceeds of the lands in the Western territory, should
be equal to three million of dollars, and the three per cent, stock
can be purchased at an average of twelve shillings in the pound,
that fund would suffice to pay off the principal of the three per
cent stock, in something more than twenty-five years.

It follows, that, if the force of the sinking fund be rendered
equal, exclusive of the proceeds of the sales of Western lands,
to the redemption of the present unredeemed transferable stock,
commencing the 1st of January, 1796, as to that bearing a
present interest of 6 per centum, and the 1st of January, 1802,
as to that bearing a future interest of 6 per centum ; and if the
proceeds of the sales of Western lands should prove equal to

Mt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 483

3,000,000 of dollars, and can be brought into action for purchases
of the 3 per cent, stock, at the rate above mentioned, at any time
before the year 1801, the whole of the present debt of the United
States, foreign and domestic (the funds appropriated being,
during the whole period, adequate, in productiveness, and
inviolably applied), would be extinguished in thirty years. And
there would then revert to the United States, an annual income
of 4,435,320 dollars and 89 cents. Some auxiliary provisions,
which will be proposed, may greatly accelerate that result.*

On the basis of the foregoing data, the Secretary of the
Treasury proceeds to submit to the consideration of Congress,
certain propositions, which appear to him necessary to be adopted
to complete our system of public credit. These will be followed
by some explanatory remarks.

I. Proposition-.

That further provision be made, with regard to the yet
unsubscribed debt of the United States, as follows :

1st. Further time to be given, until the end of the year 1795,
to subscribe the same to the loan proposed by the funding act ;
with liberty to the holders to subscribe the arrears of interest up
to that period separately from the principal, reserving that
principal on its original footing.

2d. An appropriation to be made for payment of interest on
so much of the principal (excepting loan office certificates bearing
interest on the nominal value) as, at the end of the year 1795,
shall remain unsubscribed, for the term of one year, according to
the rate or rates stipulated by the original contracts, and for the
payment of ten per centum of the arrears of interest thereupon,
to the same end of the year 1795. This payment to be made on
the 1st of January, 1796, at the treasury, where no particular
place of payment is stipulated, and at such place, where there is
one.

* These results are not stated with fractional correctness, because it is not
necessary to a satisfactory conclusion, and the minuteness of the calculation would
have demanded more time than can conveniently be spared.

484 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

3d. The specie principal of the loan office certificates, which
bear interest on the nominal value, together with the arrears of
interest, to be immediately paid off.

II. Proposition.

That provision be made for taking, upon loan to the United
States, by subscription at the treasury, the outstanding and
unbarred new emission bills of credit, the sums subscribed to be
paid in the principal only of those bills, and the stock of the
new loan to bear an interest of 5 per cent, per annum, payable,
quarter yearly, at the treasury, and redeemable at the pleasure
of the United States, by payment of the principal, with a stipu-
lation to pay the same at the expiration of thirty years. The
loan to be deemed to commence on the first of January, 1796,
and to rest on funds permanently pledged, namely, the perma-
nent revenues.

III. Proposition.

That provision be made for converting, by a new loan, the
whole of our present foreign, into domestic debt, upon these
terms, to wit : that, for any sum subscribed to the new loan, and
paid in the principal of the present foreign debt of the United
States, there be allowed, in addition to the interest now payable
upon such principal, the further yearly interest of | per centum,
or, in lieu thereof, at the option of each subscriber, an equivalent
sum in capital stock, bearing an interest of 5 per centum per
annum. That the whole interest upon the new loan, including
that upon the capital stock, to be given as an equivalent for the
additional \ per cent., shall remain fixed until the first day of
January, 1818, at which time, and not sooner, the principal of
the said new loan, including the said capital stock given as an
equivalent, may and shall be reimbursed, except as to such
subscribers as may prefer a shorter term of reimbursement,
who may elect any term not less than fifteen years. That the
permanent revenues shall be and remain firmly pledged for the
payment of the said interest, until the reimbursement of the said

jEt.38] public credit. 485

principal, to be paid quarter yearly, as that of the present funded-
domestic debt. And, lastly, that the commissioners of the sinking
fund be empowered, with the approbation of the President, to
provide, by new loans, for the reimbursement of any instalment,
or part of principal, of the present foreign debt, or of the loan to
be made thereupon, as aforesaid, either by direct borrowing, or
by sale, in the market, of certificates of stock, so as the said loan,
or the said certificates of stock, shall bear an interest not exceed-
ing 6 per centum per annum, and shall be liable to reimbursement
within a term not exceeding twenty-four years. The interest
upon the capital reimbursed, and, in aid thereof, the permanent
revenues, to be pledged for the interest upon the loans or stock
to be made or created by virtue of the said power.

IV. Proposition.

That the temporary duties on imports be made coextensive,
in duration, with those now permanent, and be appropriated in
like manner; and that the reservation of 600,000 dollars, annually,
out of the duties on imports and tonnage, for the support of the
Government of the United States, and their common defence, be
postponed till after the appropriations for the interest of the
funded debt, foreign and domestic, and for the sinking fund.

V. Proposition.

That the following provisions be added to those heretofore
made, for reimbursing and redeeming the debt of the United
States :

1st. To direct, by law, that so much of the surplus of the
duties on imports and tonnage, to the end of the year 1790, as
shall remain uninvested in purchases, on the 1st day of January,
1796, shall be so invested, one-fourth part within the month of
April, another fourth part within the month of July, another
fourth part within the month of October, in that year, and. the
remainder within the month of January, 1797.

2d. To exonerate the fund established by the act, entitled

486 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

" An act supplementary to the act making provision for the debt
of the United States," passed the 8th of May, 1792, from the
payment of the rate, per annum, which, by the 4th section of
the act of the 12th of August, 1790, entitled " An act making
provision for the reduction of the public debt," is reserved, on
account of the principal and interest of the moneys authorized,
by that act, to be borrowed for purchases of the debt ; charging
the interest of the moneys so borrowed, upon the revenue from
imports and tonnage.

3d. To appropriate to the same fund, so much of the revenue
from imports and tonnage, as, together with the other moneys now
constituting the fund, and which shall accrue to it by virtue of the
foregoing provisions, shall be sufficient, from year to year, with the
interest redeemed, to pay the sums which may, of right, be
annually paid on account of the principal of such funded stock,
as on the 1st day of January, 1796, shall bear a present interest
of 6 per centum per annum, excluding that which shall stand to
the credit of the commissioners of the sinking fund, and that
which shall stand to the credit of particular States, on account
of the balances reported in their favor by the commissioners for
settling accounts between the United States and individual States ;
to continue so appropriated until the whole of the said funded
stock shall be redeemed, and, thenceforth, until the whole residue
of the present debt of the United States, foreign and domestic,
funded and unfunded, shall be redeemed or discharged.

4th. To appropriate to the same fund, the dividends on the
stock of the Bank of the United States, belonging to the United
States, reserving, from time to time, so much thereof as may be
necessary to pay interest on what shall remain unpaid of the loan
had of the said bank, pursuant to the second section of the act
of incorporation, and, also, so much of the duties on imports an d
tonnage, as, together with those dividends (deducting what may be
necessary to pay interest), shall be sufficient, from year to year,
to pay off the instalments of the said loan, hereafter to grow due,
and as (the said instalments being paid) together with any other
moneys which, on the 1st day of January, 1802, may belong to the
said fund, not otherwise appropriated, shall be sufficient, fro n year

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 487

to year, with the interest redeemed, to pay the sums which may,
of right, be annually paid on account of the principal of such
funded stock, as, at the expiration of the year 1800, shall begin
to bear an interest of six per cent, per annum, excluding that
which shall stand to the credit of the commissioners of the
sinking fund, and that which shall stand to the credit of par-
ticular States, on account of the balances reported in their favor,
by the commissioners for settling accounts between the United
States and individual States ; to continue so appropriated, until,
as well the last mentioned stock, as the instalments of the loan
aforesaid, shall be fully redeemed and discharged, and, thence-
forth, until the whole residue of the present debt of the United
States, foreign and domestic, funded and unfunded, shall be
redeemed and discharged.

5th. To continue the appropriation to the same fund, of the
interest of the stock which shall be redeemed by virtue of the
foregoing provisions (when the full redemption in each case is
completed), until the whole of the present debt of the United
States, foreign and domestic, funded and unfunded, shall be
redeemed, by reimbursement, purchase, or otherwise.

6th. To provide for carrying to the same fund, agreeably to
the appropriation in the funding act, the proceeds of the sales
of the lands of the United States in the Western territory, to be
applied according to the said appropriation.

7th. To appropriate to the same fund, to be employed for
the purposes thereof, all moneys which shall be received for
debts due to the United States, antecedent to the present con-
stitution.

8th. To provide that the surpluses of all the current reve-
nues of the United States, which shall remain at the end of
any calendar year, beyond the amount of the appropriations
charged upon them, and which, during the session of Congress,
commencing next thereafter, shall not be otherwise specially
appropriated or reserved, shall be carried to the fund aforesaid,
to be applied to the purposes thereof.

9th. To provide for paying, annually, out of the said fund,
the sum which may be rightfully paid in each year, towards the

488 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

redemption of the funded stock, which does or shall bear an
interest of six per centum per annum, excluding that which
shall stand to the credit of the commissioners of the sinking fund,
and that which shall stand to the credit of particular States, on
account of the balances reported in their favor by the commis-
sioners for settling accounts between the United States and indi-
vidual States, commencing the redemption of that bearing a
present interest, on the first of January, 1796, and of that to bear
interest after the year 1800, on the first of January, 1802, and
pledging, in the firmest manner, the faith of the United States
to the creditors thereof, that the said fund shall be inviolably
applied to the purpose of redeeming the stock aforesaid, and
afterwards, to the redemption of the whole of the present debt
of the United States, foreign and domestic, funded and unfunded,
until the whole shall be fully redeemed and discharged, and to
be vested in the commissioners of the sinking fund, as property
in trust for the creditors, until the redemption of -the whole of
the present debt of the United States shall be completed.

Provided, always, that, whenever the fund shall be more
than sufficient for paying off, as they accrue, the remaning instal-
ments of the said loan had of the Bank of the United States,
and for the complete and final redemption of the whole of the
aforesaid stock, bearing and to bear an interest of six per cent,
according to the right reserved for that purpose, and also for the
payment of the instalments of the present foreign debt, or of
such new loans as may be made thereupon, pursuant to the third
proposition, and for the reimbursement, purchase, or redemption
of the residue of the present debt of the United States, within
the term of thirty years, it shall be lawful for Congress, if at war
with any foreign European Power, to apply so much of the
excess as they may think fit, the said excess being certified by
the commissioners of the sinking fund, towards the expenses
of such war ; excepting always so much of the said excess as
may be requisite to fulfil any contracts which shall have been
entered into by the commissioners of the sinking fund, pursuant
to the powers vested in them; and provided, that no second
appropriation of any such excess shall derogate from the fund

Mt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 489

once reserved for the redemption or purchase of the said residue
of the debt, within the said term of thirty years.

10th. To provide that all reimbursements of the capital of
the public debt, foreign and domestic, and of the remaining
instalments of the aforesaid loan of the Bank of the United
States, be made under the superintendence of the commissioners
of the sinking fund, empowering them, with the approbation of
the President of the United States, as the instalments of principal
become due, to borrow, if necessary, the sums requisite to pay
those instalments. Provided, that the ultimate term for the
reimbursement of any loan they may make, shall not exceed
twenty -four years ; the interest thereof to be charged — first, upon
the interest of the instalments which shall be reimbursed by
means thereof, except the instalments of funded six per cent,
stock; secondly, upon the revenue from imports and tonnage, to
make good any deficiency.

VI. Proposition.

That power be given to the commissioners of the sinking
fund, with the approbation of the President, to borrow, from
time to time, such sums as may be necessary in anticipation of
the revenues appropriated for the purpose, not exceeding, in one
year, one million of dollars, to be reimbursed within a year from
the time of each loan, for the payment of the interest which shall
annually accrue on the public debt

The interest upon each loan to be defrayed out of the perma-
nent revenues,

VII. Proposition.

That the internal revenues from snuff and refined sugar,
sales at auction, licenses to sell by retail foreign distilled spirits
and wines, carriages for the conveyance of persons, be continued
to the first day of January, 1800, and that the reimbursement of
the principal of the loan of 1,000,000 dollars, authorized to be
borrowed for defraying the expenses of foreign intercourse, be
charged upon this fund,

c 32

490 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JJt. 38.

VIII. Proposition.

That, in regard to any sum which shall have remained unex-
pended upon any appropriations other than for the payment of
the interest of the funded debt and for the purposes of the
sinking fund, for more than two years after the end of the
calendar year in which the act of appropriation shall have been
passed, such appropriation shall be deemed to cease and deter-
mine— and the sum expended upon it shall be carried to an
account to be denominated "the surplus fund." But no
appropriation shall be so deemed to have ceased or determined,
till after the year 1795, unless it shall appear to the Secretary
of the Treasury that the object of such appropriation has been
fully satisfied ; in which case, it shall be lawful for him to cause
to be carried the unexpended residue thereof to the account
aforesaid.

IX. Proposition.

That provision be made that all priorities, heretofore estab-
lished, in the appropriations for the funded debt, as between the
different parts of said debt, shall, after the year 1796, cease, with
respect to all creditors of the United States who do not, before
the expiration of the period, signify their dissent therefrom ; and
that, thenceforth, with the exception only of the debts of those
creditors who shall so signify their dissent, the revenues charged
with these appropriations shall constitute a common or consoli-
dated fund, chargeable indiscriminately and without priority.

X. Proposition.

That provision be made for calling in all outstanding Loan
Office certificates, certificates called final settlements, and indents
of interest, and for issuing, in lieu of them, other certificates of
equivalent tenor, establishing that all which shall not be pre-
sented for exchange within the term of two years shall be barred.

Mt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 491

Remarks upon the First Proposition.

The experiment lias now been fully tried, and with nearly
complete success, of the disposition of the public creditors to
accept the terms offered by the funding act. Those who still
decline have probably made a final election to abide by their
original contracts.

It remains to fulfil them. This, the moral obligation of the
contracts, the new and peremptory sanction given to them by the
present Government, and the essential maxims of public credit,
unite to demand ; and, while these cogent motives, affecting inti-
mately the permanent character and general interest of the Uni-
ted States, recommend the measure, there is now no longer any
momentary inducement, from situation, to procrastinate.

The present advanced state of the national finances, and the
inconsiderable magnitude of the still unsubscribed debt, render it
of little, if any, consequence to obtain upon it the temporary
accommodation of deferring the payment of a part of the interest
accruing according to contract. This motive apart, and consider-
ing the approximation of the period when the payment of interest
on the deferred debt is to commence, the chance of benefiting by
a fall of the market rate of interest, incident to a provision for
the debt on the terms of the contract, which make it redeemable
at pleasure, may be found more advantageous to the Govern-
ment, than the partial postponement of interest encumbered with
an abridgment of the right of redemption.

To those who should not rightly appreciate this circumstance,
it might seem an objection, that the provision proposed would
place those creditors, who had not consented to accommodate the
Government, upon a better footing than those who had so con-
sented.

But a scruple of this kind is overruled by several considera-
tions. 1st. It is not improbable that a considerable proportion
of those who may not. have accepted the terms offered by the
funding act, are executors and other trustees, who may have
doubted their power to accept.

2d. Giving the fullest force to the fact which is the ground of

492 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 38.

the objection, it is one of those cases in which the general princi-
ples that constitute the permanent happiness of society, give the
less meritorious advantages over the more meritorious. All the
creditors had a right to conform, or not. Those who have not
done it have only used their right, and it cannot be matter of
objection or prejudice to them. To delay indefinitely a provision
for their claims, according to contract, is to annihilate the con-
tract.

The complying creditors cannot with propriety complain.
They were informed unequivocally that the proposal of a new
loan was referred to their free choice ; that the rights of those who
did not assent would remain unimpaired; and compensations
were offered in the new contracts for the surrender of the old.
A plea that an ultimate provision was not relied upon, could not
be admitted, because it would be to convert a distrust of the faith
of the Government into an argument against its being observed
towards those who had depended upon it.

But the complying creditors actually received valuable con-
siderations for the modification of their claims, instead of annual
provision for their interest, which alone their contracts, as they
stood previous to the funding act, required ; they have had it
secured by adequate funds permanently mortgaged for its payment.

Instead of the stipulated annuity being redeemable at pleasure,
whenever a fall in the market rate of interest should render it
advantageous to pay off the principal, it has acquired a more
fixed character by the relinquishment of the right of the Govern-
ment to redeem, except in certain proportions, and a capacity to
increase in capital value, by a declension of the market rate of
interest.

Instead of receiving their interest in one payment, at the end
of a year, they receive it in quarter yearly portions, which makes
it, in fact, 6.15 per cent, in lieu of the stipulated rate of six per
centum.

On the first point it has been argued that, supposing a steady
preservation of its faith by the Government, it is indifferent to
the creditor whether his demand stands upon the basis of an an-
nual provision, or upon that of mortgaged funds.

JEx. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 493

This is to substitute theory to fact. As well with regard to a
government as to an individual, there is, in the nature of things,
an intrinsic difference between the value of a debt bottomed on
mortgaged funds, and that of a debt resting on what is called, in
the one case, and may be called in the other, personal security.
The degree of this difference, and some of the circumstances on
which it depends, may be different in the two cases, but the
reality of its existence can be denied in neither.

Government, being administered by men, is naturally, like
individuals, subject to particular impulses, passions, prejudices,
vices ; of course to inconstancy of views and mutability of con-
duct.

A kind of property, of which the essence is contract, must
necessarily, therefore, be more or less valuable, because more or
less secure, in proportion as it is little or much exposed to the
influence of that inconstancy or that mutability.

If a provision is to be made by a new resolution every year,
that resolution, being always liable to be affected by momentary
circumstances, is always casual.

If made once for all, it continues, of course, unless revoked
by some positive act, and has for that reason a moral certainty of
stability.

But why, it might be asked, if a disposition unfaithful to the
public engagements, or unfriendly to the public credit, should
exist, would it not operate to produce a violation of a provision
made, as well as to prevent the making of one ?

The two things are widely different. To undo, which is to
act, and in such a case to act with violence, requires more enterprise
and vigor, and presupposes greater energy, or a stronger impulse,
than not to do, or to forbear to act. This is particularly true
where a number of wills is to concur. Many men who will not
rouse to the effort, or encounter the responsibility of doing mis-
chief by positive acts, will readily enough slide into it by a nega-
tive conduct ; that is, by omitting to act. Many men, merely
from easiness of temper or want of active fortitude, will suffer
evil to take place which they neither desire nor would themselves
commit. In collective bodies, votes are necessary to action :

494 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

absences may produce inaction". It often happens, that a ma-
jority of voices could not be had to a resolution to undo or
reverse a thing once done, which there would not be a majority
of voices to do.

This reasoning acquires tenfold force when applied to a com-
plex government like ours ; that is, to a government distributed
into departments, acting through different organs, which must
concur to give it motion ; as, in our constitution, the House of
Eepeesentatives, the Senate, and the President.

In delicate and difficult cases, whether to issue in good or ill,
a suspension of action is far more natural to such a government
than action.

It can hardly happen, that all the branches or parts of it can
be infected at one time with a common passion, or disposition,
manifestly inimical to justice and the public good, as to prostrate
the public credit, by revoking a pledge, given to the creditors.
It is far more probable that such a disposition should, at one
time, possess one part, at another time, another part. Possessing
either part, it might be sufficient to obstruct a provision which
was to be made. Without possessing all the parts, it could not
subvert one which had been made. The last can scarcely be
supposed, except in one of those extraordinary crises of nations
which confound all ordinary calculations.

Hence the value of property in public debt, which rests on
specified and competent funds, firmly pledged for the satisfaction
of the creditor, is intrinsically greater, and to a considerable ex-
tent, than that of property in public debt, which depends on
annual provision. Hence, too, a creditor to whom such a pledge
was not stipulated, may be justly said to have received a com-
pensation for the relinquishment of a portion of his interest.

On the second point, it has been observed, with less plausibi-
lity, that, in this country, where it would be to the advantage of
the creditor to receive his principal, rather than a rate of six per
cent, interest, the abridgment of the right of redemption is of
no value.

1st. The proposition is not universally true.

It depends on the particular situation of a creditor whether it

Mt. 38.]

PUBLIC CREDIT. 495

be his interest to be reimbursed his principal or not. It is be-
lieved, owing to the impunctuality of collections, that in no part
of the United States does fair lending at private interest, upon
real security, net six per cent.

2d. As far as it is true, it does not authorize the inference
which is drawn, because the creditor cannot demand his principal
when it suits him, but must wait till it is convenient for the
government to pay. This convenience might not exist till there
was a fall in the market rate of interest, and then it would not
be the interest of the creditor to receive.

Unable to exact the principal when he pleases, it is a material
point gained to be able to arrest the hand of the government from
paying him, when it is his interest not to receive. It is evident,
that whenever the rate of interest to which he is entitled, shall
exceed the market rate, if he cannot be obliged to receive back
his principal, or take the market rate, his stock must rise in value
in proportion to the difference and degree of its duration.

Nor is an idea which has been entertained, just, that this ad-
vantage is remote and contingent, to accrue only to those who
may be holders at the time of the fall of interest, at the expense
of those who were holders when the funding act passed, many of
whom, as it is alleged, being obliged to alienate then or shortly
after, suffered loss in the sale, from the postponement of a part of
their interest, without benefiting by the supposed equivalents.

The fairness of an equivalent ought never to be tested by the
necessities of particular individuals. It ought to be estimated by
the general principles of value ; by the natural and real opera-
tion of things. Admitting, therefore, the suggestion, as to such
individuals, to be true, it would decide nothing.

But it is not true. The permanency of a high rate of interest,
and the possibility of a future rise of the capital above par, by
the fall of the market rate below the stipulated rate, were, to the
first holders of stock, circumstances of present value.

Foreigners, especially, whose purchases would necessarily
influence the market, would give higher prices for it on these
accounts.

And when to this are added, the funding of the new stock

496 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

and the payment of the interest quarter yearly, there is solid ground
for entertaining an opinion that the stock has, from the earliest
period, borne a better price in the market than upon the principle
of an annual payment of six per cent, on the whole capital de-
pending upon an annual provision.

This opinion would be confirmed, if we should take as a
guide what actually happened in one or more of the States which
made annual provision for the payment of interest upon their
debts, at the stipulated rate of six per cent. With this provision
the market price of their stock rarely exceeded 33 ~ per centum-
It is probable that greater confidence in the ability and con-
stancy of views of the Government of the United States, might
have given a greater value to their stock in a like situation. But
it is not to be doubted that it would have felt, in a great degree,,
a similar effect of that situation.

This may not appear with respect to the small amount of
unsubscribed debt, now to be provided for, and with the ad-
vantage of a confirmation of confidence by experience ; but it
could not have failed to have been very apparent, if the whole
debt had been provided for on this plan.

These observations serve to render it probable that the cred-
itors who have accepted the terms offered by the Government,
have not been injured by the acceptance ; that, if they had
now an option to change their ground for that which is now
proposed for non-subscribers, it would be an ill-judged choice
in them to do it ; and that, upon these, as well as other accounts,
they will have no cause to be dissatisfied with the proposal under
consideration.

Let it be added, that, whether the non-subscribers shall fare
better or not by that proposal than the subscribers, it is the inter-
est of all the public creditors, upon principle and precedent,
that the public faith should be preserved towards those non-
subscribers.

But, at the same time, every consideration connected with
the question, urges that nothing more should be done for non-
subscribers than is positively due to good faith. Accordingly,
the proposition contemplates that their debt shall not he funded,
but that provision shall be annually made.

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 497

With regard to arrears of interest, a tenth part only is pro-
posed to be paid on the first of January, 1796. At this rate,
they would be paid off in ten years.

In strictness, they ought to be immediately discharged. But,
to have done this on the whole debt, would have been impracti-
cable ; to do it on what now remains unsubscribed, would not
only be unequal, but would, at the present moment, obstruct
arrangements which are conducive to the general interests of the
creditors. The state of the treasury in succeeding years will
enable Congress to decide how far the payment can be accele-
rated. In the mean time, the creditors have an option to sepa-
rate these arrears from the principal, and to fund them at three
per cent., as has been done generally with regard to interest.
The case of a large arrear of interest, arising from the inability of
a former government, which is the present case, is liable to some
peculiar considerations.

A difference is made in the special case of the Loan Office
certificates, which, by contract, are entitled to interest of six per
cent, on the nominal principal, redeemable only by payment of
the specie principal.

This is too disadvantageous a footing for the Government.

The alternative most convenient at this time, is to pay off
the debt, which is proposed. To elude this contract, would be
to sacrifice a very great principle to a very little interest.

The amount will be seen in the statement A.

Remarks on the Second Proposition.

The certificates, or bills of credit, called new emission money,
were emitted pursuant to a resolution of Congress, of the 18th of
March, 1780, which directs them to be emitted upon the funds of
individual States, to bear an interest of five per centum per an-
num, payable in specie, at the redemption of the bills ; or, at the
election of the holder, annually, at the Continental Loan Offices, in
sterling bills, drawn by the United States upon their Commissioners in
Europe, and pledges the faith of the United States for the pay-
ment of the said bills, in case any State on whose funds they shouldbe

498 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

emitted, should, by the events of war, be rendered incapabh to redeem
them ; directing, also, an endorsement to be made upon each bill,
in these words: " The United States insure the payment of the
within bill, and will draw bills of exchange for the interest, an-
nually, if demanded, according to a resolution of Congress, of the
18th of March, 1780."

These resolutions, and the endorsement upon the bills, engage
the absolute promise of the United States for the payment of the
interest indefinitely, and their eventual guarantee of the principal,
in case any State on whose funds the bills should be emitted,
should, by the events of war, be rendered incapable to redeem
them ; which is, in effect, though not in form, an absolute gua-
rantee of the principal : for the United States are bound to pay
the interest perpetually till that is discharged.

Good faith demands that the United States should supply the
omissions of the States which issued the bills, by providing
themselves, at least, for the interest upon them.

But it is not as easy to pronounce on what terms they ought
to be provided for.

On their face, and according to the unrevoked resolutions of
Congress, they are of specie value, equal to their nominal amount,
and bearing five per cent, interest.

But it is known that they were issued by different States, at
different values, fixed by previous laws. The true nature of the
contract, therefore, in fact, and the true equity of the case, are,
from these circumstances, involved in some question.

A compromise by a new agreement, seems the best road
out of the difficulty.

This is the aim of the proposition, which, it is hoped, will,
in the main, reasonably consult all interests.

There have been special references of this subject to the
Secretary, but he purposely declined a report till the expiration
of the term limited by the act, entitled " An act relative to
claims against the United States not barred by any act of limita-
tion, and which have not been already adjusted," passed the 12th
of February, 1793, had obviated a danger to which the business
was exposed. It is now ascertained that the amount for which

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 499

the United States shall be in future liable, is ninety thousand
five hundred and seventy-four dollars. The sums subscribed to
the loan, will, of course, be a charge against the States which
respectively issued the bills.

Remarks on the Third Proposition.

The payment of interest and instalments of principal of our
foreign debt, in the countries where it was contracted, is found
by experience to be attended with difficulty, embarrassment,
some loss, and a degree of casualty which occasionally puts in
jeopardy the national credit. Loans for reimbursement must be
made beforehand, as the market suits, and necessarily involve
double interest for a greater or less time. The procuring of bills
to be remitted for payment of interest, cannot be depended upon
in coincidence with the periods of payment, which, co-operating
with distance, renders inconvenient anticipations necessary.

The remitting in commodities would be liable to other casual-
ties, and to some peculiar objections; and whatever mode be
adopted, it may be frequently not practicable to deposit in
season the necessary funds on the spot, without great sacrifices.
If, therefore, the place of these payments could, with consent of
the creditors, upon an equitable indemnification to them for the
transfer, be changed to the United States, the operation would
be in various lights beneficial. It has occurred that the present
posture of the affairs of Europe, might favor a plan of this kind,
and perhaps produce some collateral advantages. Under this
idea, an experiment is proposed. The proposed augmentation of
interest is intended as an indemnification for the expense and
hazard of agencies in this country, delays in remittance, incon-
venience of distant negotiation, renunciation of the facilities
which attend the receipt of interest at home, risks of loss by
exchange, &c, and is calculated on a liberal scale, in order to
induce an acceptance of the proposition.

If, instead of an increase of interest, the option of an equivalent
be given by way of premium, in stock bearing an interest of five
per cent., it would have attractions for certain creditors, and

500 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

would facilitate the success of the measure. On strict calculation,
the equivalent would be six dollars and fifty-eight cents per 100
dollars of the principal subscribed. It is not perceived that the
interests of the United States could suffer by allowing the alter-
native. The fixing of the rate of interest, by postponing the
reimbursement to the year 1818, would also be a powerful
inducement. And till the period of reimbursement arrives, any
surplus of the sinking fund which may exist, can be invested
in purchases, so as to prevent the progress of the fund being
arrested.

It could not be necessary to observe, except for the sake of
dispelling jealousy or apprehension on the part of the creditors,
that, ivhile the plan is in experiment, and afterwards, with regard to
all who do not embrace it, every thing is to proceed as heretofore,
and as the contracts respecting the debt require.

The auxiliary proposition of giving power to the commis-
sioners of the sinking fund to remit certificates for sale, is
founded upon a belief that this operation will sometimes be
practicable, where direct loans cannot be effected, and will be
occasionally a more beneficial mode of remittance than by bills
of exchange.

Remark on the Fourth Proposition.

The object of this proposition is to give moral certainty to
the adequateness of the fund for paying the interest upon the
debt, and for its ultimate redemption, making a reasonable
allowance for the casualties to which it is exposed.

Remarks on the Fifth Proposition.

There is no sentiment which can better deserve the serious
attention of the legislators of a country, than the one expressed
in the speech of the President, which indicates the danger to
every government from the progressive accumulation of debt.
A tendency to it is, perhaps, the natural disease of all govern-
ments ; and it is not easy to conceive any thing, more likely than
this, to lead to great and convulsive revolutions of empire.

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 501

On the one hand, the exigencies of a nation, creating new
causes of expenditure, as well from its own, as from the ambition,
rapacity, injustice, intemperance, and folly, of other nations,
proceed in increasing and rapid succession. On the other, there
is a general propensity in those who administer the affairs of a
government, founded in the constitution of man, to shift off the
burden from the present to a future day — a propensity which
may be expected to be strong in proportion as the form of a
State is popular.

To extinguish a debt which exists, and to avoid the con-
tracting more, are ideas always favored by public feeling and
opinion ; but to pay taxes for the one or the other purpose,
which are the only means of avoiding the evil, is always, more
or less, unpopular. These contradictions are in human nature ;
and happy, indeed, would be the lot of a country that should
ever want men ready to turn them to the account of their own
popularity, or to some other sinister account.

Hence, it is no uncommon spectacle to see the same men
clamoring for occasions of expense, when they happen to be in
unison with the present humor of the community, whether well
or ill directed, declaiming against a public debt, and for the
reduction of it as an abstract thesis ; yet vehement against every
plan of taxation which is proposed to discharge old debts, or
to avoid new, by the defraying expenses of exigencies as they
emerge.

These unhandsome arts throw artificial embarrassment in the
way of the administrators of a Government, and, co-operating
with the desire which they themselves are too apt to feel to conci-
liate public favor, by declining to lay even necessary burthens, or
with the fear of losing it, by imposing them with firmness, serve
to promote the accumulation of debt, by leaving that which
exists without adequate provision for its reimbursement, and by
preventing the levying, with energy, new taxes, when new
occasions of expense occur. The consequence is, that the public
debt swells till its magnitude becomes enormous, and the bur-
thens of the people gradually increase, till their weight becomes
intolerable. Of such a state of things, great disorders in the

502 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

whole political economy, convulsions and revolutions of govern-
ment, are a natural offspring.

There can be no more sacred obligation, then, on the public
agents of a nation, than to guard, with provident foresight and
inflexible perseverance, against so mischievous a result. True
patriotism and genuine policy cannot, it is respectfully presumed,
be better demonstrated by those of the United States, at the
present juncture, than by improving, efficaciously, the very
favorable situation in which they stand, for extinguishing, with
reasonable celerity, the actual debt of the country, and for laying
the foundation of a system which may shield posterity from the
consequences of the usual improvidence and selfishness of its
ancestors, and which, if possible, may give immortality to

PUBLIC CREDIT.

Fortunately for the first object, the circumstances in our
foreign affairs, which, during the last session, impelled to an
extension of the national revenues, have left little more to do
than to apply the existing means with decision and efficacy.

The second object will depend on the establishment of wise
principles in the application, fitted to become a permanent prece-
dent in the fiscal system of the country.

The first report of the Secretary on the subject of the public
debt, of the 9th of January, 1790, suggests the idea of "incorpo-
rating, as a fundamental maxim in the system of public credit of
the United States, that the creation of debt should always be
accompanied with the means of extinguishment; that this is the
true secret for rendering public credit immortal, and that it is difficult
to conceive a situation in which there may not be an adherence to
the maxim;'''1 and it expresses "an unfeigned solicitude, that this
may be attempted by the United States, and that they may com-
mence their measures for the establishment of credit with the
observance of it." *

* It is understood that the Parliament of Great Britain has, within the last four
years, formally adopted, as a standing rule, the principle of incorporating, with
the creation of debt , the means of extinguishment. How much easier must the execu-
tion of this important principle he to the United States, than to a nation which,
before it began, had so deeply mortgaged its resources. Let the United States
never have to regret, hereafter, that they postponed too long so provident a
precaution.

Mr. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 503

No opportunity has been lost by the Secretary, as far as he
could contribute to the event, to reduce this principle to practice :
and important steps towards it have been, from time to time,
taken by the Legislature.

But much remains to be done to give it full effect. The
present state of things encourages and invites to the consum-
mation of the plan. And the Secretary, about to leave the office
he holds, feels it a peculiar duty to make a final effort to promote
that invaluable end.

This is the object of the fifth proposition, aided by the pre-
liminary provisions of the 4th. This proposition aims at two
principal points: 1. To constitute a fund sufficient, in every
supposable event, for extinguishing the whole of the present
debt of the United States, foreign and domestic, in a period not
exceeding thirty years. 2. To fix its destination unchangeably,
by not only appropriating it permanently, under the direction of
commissioners, and vesting it in them as property in trust, but
by making its faithful application a part of the contract with the
creditors.

As to the first point : If the temporary duties on imports be
rendered permanent, the annual reservation of six millions of
dollars postponed ; and if the additional appropriations which
are proposed, be made to the sinking fund ; its intended force
will not only be equal to the effect meant to be produced, but
it may be hoped that there is scarcely a casualty which can
reasonably be taken into calculation, foreign war not excepted,
which will occasion a deficiency in the fund.

The whole amount of the duties on imports and tonnage,
and upon domestic distilled spirits and stills, estimated now to
amount to $6,079,418 58, besides the dividends on bank stock,
and the items which now compose the sinking fund, will then
be appropriated, primarily, to the interest upon the public
debt, and to the sinking fund; which, together, including the
deferred stock, will demand, permanently, from that revenue,
$4,373,836 03— little more than two-thirds of the fund from
which they arise. An expectation may be indulged, that even
foreign war, making due allowance for what will always be

5°4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

practicable through neutral Powers, would not occasion a de-
falcation in the revenues greater than the difference. This
competency of the fund is an essential idea. The fulfilment of
the object, as far as the uncertainty of human affairs will permit,
ought to be superior to casualty.

The necessity of a reliance on auxiliary provisions, always
precarious in those situations which affect the productiveness of
the public revenues, ought to be, as far as practicable, superseded
by the ample nature of the provision.

As to the second point : The intent is to secure, by all the
sanctions of which the subject is susceptible, an inviolable appli-
cation of the fund, according to its destination. No expedients
more powerful can be devised for this purpose, than to clothe it
with the character of private property, and to engage absolutely
the faith of the Government, by making the application of it to
the object, a part of the contract with the creditors.

But is this necessary ?

Its necessity rests on these cogent reasons : The inviolable
application of an adequate sinking fund is the only practicable
security against an excessive accumulation of debt, and the
essential basis of a permanent national credit.

Experience has shown, in countries the most attentive to the
principles of credit, that a simple appropriation of the sinking
fund is not a complete barrier against its being diverted, when
immediate exigencies press. The causes which have been stated
with another view, tempt the administrators of Government
to lay hold of this resource rather than resort to new taxes.
This indicates the utility of endeavoring to give, by additional
sanctions, inviolability to the fund.

But, will those proposed answer the end ?

They are the most efficacious that can be imagined, and they
are likely to be entirely efficacious. They cannot be disregarded,
without, by breach of faith and contract, destroying credit ; and,
at a juncture, too, when it is most indispensable. The emer-
gencies which induce a diversion of the fund, are those in which
loans, and, consequently, credit, are most needed.

But will it be safe to put the fund so entirely out of the

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 505

command of the Government ? Mav there not be situations in
which the command of it may be requisite to the safety of the
State ?

This is not conceivable. The amount of the sinking fund
will, in the situations which create extraordinary demands for
money, be always inconsiderable, compared even with a single
year's expenditure. The current revenues of a nation do not, in
such cases, suffice. Plunder or credit must supply the deficiency.
The first presupposes a subversion of all social order. The
second will find its best support and greatest efficacy in adhering
steadily to the principles of such a fund. An annuity of seven
dollars will pay the interest upon, and discharge a capital of one
hundred dollars, bearing six per cent, interest, in thirty-three
and a third years, nearly. The situation of a country must be
not a little exhausted, if it cannot create yearly, by new revenues,
during the continuance of a foreign war, an annuity on the above
scale, sufficient to fund the loans of which it may stand in need.
Ten millions of dollars will, with order and economy, maintain,
in this country, an army of fifty thousand men for a year.
Viewing our geographical position, is there a prospect of any
war expensive beyond this ratio ? If not, an annuity of seven
hundred thousand dollars, created each year of the war, would
suffice. But it would be wise, in such an event, to carry taxation,
in the first instance, to the full extent of the ability of the State,,
which would proportionably contract the necessity for bor-
rowing, and, consequently, the extent of the annuities necessary
for loans.

If a nation can find embarrassment in creating the revenues
requisite on this scale, it must arise from her having reached a
stage when, from the neglect of the principle now inculcated,
the mass of her debt has become so enormous as to strain her
faculties in order to make a provision for it.

The United States are in a situation altogether different. An
inspection of the list of their revenues discovers that they have a
large field of resource unexplored. Their youth, and large tracts
of unsettled lands, and land in the infancy of improvement,
assure them a great and rapid increase of means. Even their
c 33

506 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

actual revenues, without additions, must, with the progress of the
country, considerably increase. And, though war may interrupt,
the temporary interruption being removed by the restoration of
peace, their increasing productiveness, suspended for a time,
must resume its vigor and growth. In a given number of years,
a considerable augmentation is certain.

The Government of this country may, therefore, adopt, fear-
less of future embarrassment, a principle which, being adopted,
will ultimately furnish resources for future exigencies, without
an increase of burthen to the community.

To explain this last idea : It will readily be perceived, that
the funds pledged for paying the interest, and sinking the prin-
cipal of a portion of the debt existing or created at a particular
time, will, within a certain period, extinguish that portion of
debt.

They will then be liberated, and will be ready for any future
use, either to defray current expenditures, or be the basis of new
loans, as circumstances may dictate. And, after a course of time,
it is a reasonable presumption, that the funds, so successively
liberated, will be adequate to new exigencies, as they occur.

Moreover, the last clause of the proposition authorizes the
deriving aid from the sinking fund for new loans, whenever the
state of the fund admits of it, consistently with the accomplish-
ment of its purposes ; that is, when it is sufficient — 1st, to make
good the payments on account of the principal of the debt as
they accrue ; 2d, to purchase in the market all that part of the
public debts of which there is no stipulation of payment by
instalment (as the three per cent, stock), within a period of thirty
years.

This, while it secures the extinction of the existing debt,
within a reasonable term, by preventing too great a proportion
of the public revenue from being tied up by the sinking fund,
gives due weight to the consideration of providing for future
emergencies.

The same consideration has governed in proposing (instead of
the appropriation of a definite sum out of the revenue from
imports and tonnage, which, in certain years, would be greater

iEi. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 507

than will be permanently necessary), that the sum to be applied
out of that revenue shall be so much, from year to year, as, with
the other items of the sinking fund, will suffice for the object.
It has likewise influenced in postponing the redemption of that
stock, which stands to the credit of certain States, in consequence
of the report of the commissioners for settlement of accounts.

Every system of public credit must assume it as a funda-
mental principle, that the resources of the country are equal to
its probable exigencies, and that it will possess ability to pay the
debts which it contracts. If this be so, there is no cause to
hesitate about the inviolable appropriation of funds to the extinc-
tion of an existing debt, within no less a term than thirty years.

Indeed, as before intimated, it cannot be doubted that the
resources of a credit, built upon a foundation so solid as that
which is recommended, will more than replace, even in the ear-
liest stages of our affairs, the use of the additional funds with-
drawn from the command of the Government, to effect it, and,
in the eventual operation, will give a more abundant command
of funds than it can otherwise have. The successive liberation
of the revenues, successively pledged, after accomplishing their
object, will afford resources that may almost be said to be in-
exhaustible.

It should be recollected, too, that the public arrangements
may, under a great pressure, anticipate the approaching period
of such liberation, by intermediate temporary loans, to be re-
placed by those funds when Jhey are free.

This proposition exemplifies, as to the past, the nature of the
maxim which has been supposed capable of giving immortality
to credit, namely: that, with the creation of debt, should be
incorporated the means of extinguishment ; which means are two-
fold: 1. The establishing, at the time of contracting a debt, funds for
the reimbursement of the principal, as well as for the payment of
interest within a determinate period. 2. The making it a part of
the contract, that the fund, so established, shall be inviolably ap-
plied to the object.

It is believed that it would be happy for the United States, if
Congress would adopt this principle as a rule in all future loans

508 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 38.

— never to be departed from ; and a good evidence of this deter-
mination will be, to apply it to the past.

This would be, at the same time, an antidote against what
may be pronounced the most plausible objections to the system
of funding public debts; which are, that, by facilitating the
means of supporting expense, they encourage to enterprises
which produce it ; and, by furnishing in credit a substitute for
revenue, likely to be too freely used, to avoid the odium of lay-
ing new taxes, they occasion a tendency to run in debt. Though
these objections to funding systems, which, giving the greatest
possible energy to public credit, are a great source of national
security, strength, and prosperity, are very similar to those which
speculative men urge against national and individual opulence,
drawn from its abuses; and though, perhaps, upon a careful
analysis of facts, they would be found to have much less support
in them than is imagined, attributing to those systems effects
which are to be ascribed, more truly, to the passions of men, and
perhaps to the genius of particular governments ; yet, as they
are not wholly unfounded, it is desirable to guard, as far as pos-
sible, against the dangers which they suppose, without renoun-
cing the advantages which these systems undoubtedly afford.

It will readily be seen, that the maxim of making concurrent
provision for the principal as well as interest, in the act of con-
tracting debt, if, by precedent and habit, it can be rendered a rule
of administration, by implicating a greater portion of the reve-
nue in every such operation than "would be requisite for a mere
provision for interest, will control proportionably the disposition
to defer the burthen to futurity, and create a greater necessity for
circumspection in incurring expense.

It is, probably, the true expedient for uniting a due regard
to the present accommodation of the community, with a due care
not to overburthen posterity — the full energy of public credit,
with a salutary restraint upon the abuses of it.

To this explanation of the general principles of the fifth pro-
position, it may be proper to add some brief notes on particular
parts of it.

It is proposed that the redemption of the present six per cent.

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 509

stock shall commence on the 1st of January, 1796. This time
of commencement is recommended by several reasons: 1. It
ought to be such as to admit of sufficient notice to distant credit-
ors. 2. It will favor order, to date the commencement of every
new pecuniary operation, where there is an option, and no
particular reason to the contrary, with the commencement of the
natural year. 3. The moment of payment presupposes that the
annuity to be paid has actually accrued, which will not be the case
till the end of the present year. 4. The small delay, by not for-
cing the means, will facilitate the future execution.

It is a part of the plan, to make provision for reimbursing
the remaining instalments of the two million loan, had of the
Bank of the United States, pursuant to the act of incorporation.
The preceding instalments have been reimbursed out of the pro-
ceeds of foreign loans. This resource cannot, in future, be relied
upon ; and, for such a purpose, it is not as eligible as a domestic
one, though circumstances have hitherto dictated a recurrence to
it. By making the dividends on the stock auxiliary for this pur-
pose to the revenue from taxes, the object is effected with little
more than half the sum from that revenue ; and, in the end, a
fund is formed from the dividends, which, with a small addition,
suffices for the redemption of the deferred stock. As these in-
stalments are yearly falling due, and must be, as they accrue, it
is essential that a provision for them be contemplated in the ge-
neral arrangement requisite to the completion of our system of
credit. There is, perhaps, no easy alternative to what is pro-
posed, except the sale of the stock. But, waiving other weighty
considerations against such a measure, it is, in the view of a true
economy, liable to the most solid objections.

It is morally certain, that the dividends on the stock will in-
crease, and the value of the capital, from this and collateral
causes, more than proportionably. There is no momentary ur-
gency to induce the relinquishment of this future advantage.
To sell at present, would be to abandon the difference without
necessity. It cannot be expedient in a government to part with
a capital, which, at the time, produces as great or a greater
revenue, than can be realized from the proceeds of a sale, how-

510 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ever invested ; and which has an inherent tendency to future
augmentation. The measure, too, would be to renounce, or les-
sen, a most convenient resource for forming the redeeming fund
of the deferred stock.

It is proposed to carry the proceeds of the sales of the "West-
ern lands to the sinking fund. This is to execute the intention
of the funding act, which has not organized the mode of appli-
cation ; and it has the advantage of combining, in one system,
all the provisions for extinguishing the debt.

It is proposed that all surpluses of revenue shall, at a certain
time, be carried to the use of the sinking fund. This is to ex-
tend and give effect to a principle which has already received the
legislative sanction. It was necessary to fix a time when the
appropriation of the surplus should become absolute, and that
this should be consistent with a due opportunity to provide for
the exigencies of the public service. Both these considerations
have been consulted. This measure has, besides, reference to a
more speedy redemption of the debt, than it appears prudent to
attempt by an absolute appropriation of more extensive funds.
And the legislators of to-day would be entitled to the lasting
gratitude of their country, if they would extend this auxiliary
resource, by all the means which are consistent with a due regard
to the present accommodation of their constituents.

It is proposed to authorize the commissioners of the sinking
fund to provide, by new loans, for the reimbursement of the in-
stalments which, from time to time, accrue. This is on the
ground, that it is essential to the perfection of the system of re-
demption, that all the means of ultimate execution should be orga-
nized in it, and that there should be no need of future provisions.

The last clause of the proposition excepts, from the operation
of that clause, the interest on the six per cent, stock. This is
because that interest is destined to form the accumulations for
paying the successive instalments of the principal of that stock,
which increase each year in a ratio to the interest liberated by
each payment.

The statement E exhibits the course of the sinking fund, as
proposed to be established.

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 511

Remarks on the Sixth Proposition.

This will be a useful and important provision. It has refer-
ence to a circumstance repeatedly adverted to — the long credits
given upon the principal branches of revenue ; from which it
happens, that, though the fund itself, or the product of the revenue,
is more than adequate to an appropriation, yet the receipts upon
it come too slowly into the treasury, to answer the end, without
anticipation by temporary loans. Its propriety depends on the
principle suggested under the last head, of having all the means
of complete execution organized in the system of public credit.

Remarks on the Seventh Proposition.

It is a good rule of caution, that no more of the public reve-
nues should be rendered permanent, than is necessary to give
moral certainty to the provisions which may be regarded as the
pillars of public credit. This idea will, it is believed, be satis-
fied, by giving permanency to the now temporary duties on
imports. Accordingly, it is only proposed to extend the duties,
mentioned in this proposition, to the year 1800, and thence, to
the end of the next ensuing session of Congress ; which is on
the ground, that they ought to be commensurate in duration
with the objects which they are to accomplish, and no more.

It has been already noticed, that they are at present charge-
able, together with the temporary duties on imports, laid in the
last session, with an appropriation of 1,292,137 dollars and thirty-
eight cents, and with the interest of one million of dollars, au-
thorized to be borrowed with a view to foreign intercourse ;
having a special eye to an object very interesting to the com-
merce and feelings of the United States.

This business wants a further arrangement ; standing, at pre-
sent, upon a vague and inefficient footing. The reimbursement
of the loan is not adequately provided for, neither is the interest,
this being predicated on funds which, in their present form, would
probably expire after a product of two years.

According to the fifth proposition^ the temporary duties on
HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[Mt. 38.

imports, after the above-mentioned appropriation of 1,292,137
dollars and thirty-eight cents shall have been satisfied, will be-
come permanently charged with the interests on the public debt,
the sinking fund, and the annual reservation of six hundred
thousand dollars, for the support of Government.

If the duties mentioned in the sixth proposition are continued
till the first of January, 1800, and the reimbursement of the
principal of the loan, as well as the interest, is referred to them,
two good purposes will be answered : the obtaining the loan will
be facilitated, and its complete reimbursement will be effected
within the term allotted, without an augmentation of the perma-
nent debt of the country. This makes allowance for fulfilling
the appropriation for the current service already charged upon
this fund.

It is presumed to be a conclusive reason in favor of the pro-
position, that it aims at preventing an increase of permanent
debt. If services of this kind, when the United States are at
peace (at least with civilized Powers), are made causes of perma-
nent loans, the progress of new debt will easily exceed the ex-
tinction of old.

It appears desirable that there should be a steady effort, as a
rule of administration, not to increase the permanent debt of the
country by permanent loans, except when it is inevitable, by the
existence of a war with some European Power.

The comparative view of revenue and expenditure (state-
ment F) establishes, satisfactorily, that these duties cannot be
dispensed with, unless there be a sustitute, if the redemption of
the public debt is to be seriously entered upon ; and it is be-
lieved that there cannot be devised objects of revenue more
proper in themselves, nor more generally acceptable to the
people. Whatever interested parties may allege, it seems self-
evident that there can hardly be a reasonable question, except
as to the best mode of collection. The objection, that part of
them falls on manufactures, has no weight. The manufactures
on which they fall are complete luxuries and completely established;
consequently, fit objects of revenue. The increased duties on
the rival foreign articles, are a full protection to the manufacture.

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 513

Whatever may be the appearances in the infancy of the tax, it is
certain, in principle, that it will finally fall on the consumer, as
generally as duties on imported commodities.

Remarks on the Eighth Proposition.

This is to terminate an embarrassment which has been expe-
rienced. Appropriations are frequently made for objects, the
extent of which is not precisely known, or in a degree casual.
To leave them indefinite, as to time, is sometimes to tie up,
unnecessarily, a portion of the public funds, which may, ulti-
mately, not be wanted at all for the purpose of the original
appropriation.

It will do away this inconvenience, and promote perspicuity
in the treasury accounts of appropriations, if an ultimate period
is fixed when each appropriation shall be deemed to have ceased.
Should further appropriations appear necessary for the same
objects, new estimates can be presented, and new appropriations
made.

The designating an account with a denomination known in
the laws, to which the surpluses are to be carried, will facilitate
future legislative dispositions of the resulting fund. It is, how-
ever, essential to the system, of public credit, that this should be
with the exceptions contained in the proposition.

Remarks on the Ninth Proposition.

This proposition is calculated to give simplicity to the public
accounts of stock and revenue, which will conduce to correctness,
dispatch, and economy. As the revenues are manifestly more
than adequate to the claims of all the creditors, they, none
of them, have any interest in the distinctions which now exist,
and which grew out of the course of the business ; and the rights
of none of them will be affected, because all who choose may
continue on their former ground, by signifying their dissent to
the present plan. It is, however, presumed, there will be no
such dissent.

514 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Remarks on the Tenth Proposition.

It is important to the fiscal calculations, to ascertain, posi-
tively, the extent of every portion of the public debt. At pre-
sent, the amount of these several items of it is deduced from
accounts of the late war, of various officers and offices ; in some
instances, conducted with little order. There is not, therefore,
sufficient certainty ; indeed, it is probable, from the length of
time that has elapsed without their appearing, that the computed
amount exceeds the real.

Besides, they are, from their nature, subject to forgeries and
counterfeits ; which implies a danger of loss to the public, till
their circulation is finally terminated. The proposition, accord-
ingly, besides the obtaining of better information, aims at ob-
viating this danger.

Allowing sufficient time for bringing them in to be exchanged
for certificates of equivalent tenor, while it is a measure tending
to public information and security, it can be liable to no reason-
able objection on the part of the creditors.

The Secretary of the Treasury has reserved for the conclusion
of this report, a proposition with appears to him of great import-
ance to the public credit, and which, after some preliminary ob-
servations, will be offered to consideration. It relates to the
right of taxing the public funds, and to that of sequestering them
in time of war.

A proposition, on either of those points, would have been
deemed superfluous, had there never been discussions asserting
a right to do the one and the other, and even the expediency of
exercising that right. The negative of both the pretensions, from
the habit of regarding it as incapable of being disputed, had
acquired, in the mind of the Secretary, so much the force of an
axiom, as to have precluded even the mention of the subject in
the plan which he originally submitted for funding the public
debt. He should, otherwise, have thought it an indispensable
duty to suggest, as a matter of primary consequence to the
system of credit contemplated in the plan, the express renunci-
ation of those pretensions ; for they are (as he believes) not only

At. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 515

unwarranted by principle or usage, but subversive of the sound
maxims of public credit. A persuasion that this would always
be a truth granted in the councils of the United States, is his
apology for the omission.

Even now he should think it useless to depart from his
silence on the point, had not the discussions alluded to, created
some alarm in places where all the circumstances are not well
understood, which it is the interest of the country to dispel.
The confidence justly to be reposed in the collective wisdom of
this Government, forbids the supposition, by one acquainted
with its constitution, that the security of the creditor can need,
in this particular, a further sanction. It is presumed to be im-
possible, that any final act can ever give so deep a wound to the
national interest and character, as to derogate from a principle
which may be placed among the most sacred in the administra-
tion of a government.

Is there a right in the Government to tax its own funds ?

The pretence of this right is deduced from the general right
of the legislative power to make all the property of the State
contributory to its exigencies.

But this right is obviously liable to be restricted by the engage-
ments of the Government; it cannot be justly exercised in contra-
vention of them ; they must form an exception. It will not be
denied, that the general right in question could, and would, be
abridged, by an express promise not to tax the funds. This
promise, indeed, has not been given in terms, but it has been
given in substance. "When an individual lends money to the
State, the State stipulates to repay him the principal lent, with a
certain interest, or to pay a certain interest, indefinitely, till the
principal is reimbursed ; or it stipulates something equivalent, in
another form. In our case, the stipulation is in the second form.

To tax the funds, is manifestly either to take, or to keep back,
a portion of the principal or interest stipulated to be paid.

To do this, on whatever pretext, is not to do tchat is expressly
promised; it is not to pay that precise principal, or that precise
interest, which has been engaged to be paid; it is, therefore, to
violate the promise given to the lender.

516 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

But, is not the stipulation to the lender, with a tacit reserva-
tion of the general right of the Legislature to raise contributions
on the property of the State ?

This cannot be supposed — because it involves two contradic-
tory things : an obligation to do, and a right not to do. An obliga-
tion to pay a certain sum, and a right to retain it in the shape of a
tax. It is against the rules, both of law and reason, to admit,
by implication, in the construction of a contract, a principle which
goes in destruction of it.

The Government, by such a construction, would be made to
say to the lender : "I want a sum of money, for a national pur-
pose, which all the citizens ought to contribute proportionably,
but it will be more convenient to them, and to me, to borrow
the money of you. If you will lend it, I promise you faith-
fully, to allow you a certain rate of interest, while I keep the
money, and to reimburse the principal within a determinate pe-
riod, except so much of the one and. the other, as I may think fit to
withhold, in the shape of a tax."

Is such a construction either natural or rational ? Does it
not, in fact, nullify the promise by the reservation of a right not
to perform it ?

Is it to be presumed, without being expressed, that such can
be the understanding of a lender, when he parts with his money
to a Government?

The contrary is so much the more presumable, that nothing
short of an express reservation can support the pretension to
tax the fund.

It may be replied, that the creditor might be willing to rely
upon the equity of the Government, not to abuse its right, by
exacting from him excessive contributions.

This, if true, does not obviate the difficulty of supposing the
coexistence of an obligation and a right, destructive the one of
the other, in interpreting the sense of a contract, when nothing
of the kind is said.

It is possible that a creditor might be willing so to contract ;
yet it is still necessary, in order to determine that he has done
it, to find some provisions or expressions in the contract, indica-

;Et. 38.] public credit. 517

ting the intention, to render what is stipulated compatible with
what is reserved. But it is not probable that an individual
would be willing to lend upon such terms. He would justly
apprehend, that, in great emergencies, a right, having no limit
but the opinion of the party possessed of the power, would be
abused, and that the convenience of laying hold of a fund al-
ready prepared and at hand, supported by a claim of right, would
be a temptation to abuse, not easy to be resisted. However well
disposed to contribute, in common with his fellow -citizens, on all
the ordinary objects of property or income, he would be unwilling
to subject himself to a special burthen, in the peculiar character
of creditor of the State. He would prefer to employ his money
in other ways ; even to lend it to private persons, where it might
be more likely to escape the hand of the fiscal power.
Let the question be tried by another analysis.
Public debt can scarcely, in legal phrase, be defined either
property in possession or in action. It is evidently not the first,
till it is reduced to possession by payment. To be the second,
would suppose a legal power to compel payment by suit. Does
such a power exist ? The true definition of public debt is a pro-
perty subsisting in the faith of the Government. Its essence is prom-
ise. Its definite value depends upon the reliance that the prom-
ise will be definitely fulfilled. Can the Government rightfully
tax its promise ? Can it put its faith under contribution ? Where
or what is the value of the debt, if such a right exist?

Suppose the Government to contract with an individual to
convey to him a hundred acres of land, upon the condition of
paying a hundred dollars. When he came to pay the hundred
dollars and demand his title, could the Government require of
him to pay fifty more as a tax upon the land, before it would
consent to give him the title ? Who would not pronounce this
to be a breach of contract — a fraud — which nothing could dis-
guise ?

This case is parallel with that under examination, with cir-
cumstances that fortify the right of the lending creditor.

The Government agrees with him, that, for one hundred dol-
lars, which he delivers to the Government, it will deliver to

518 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

him, at the end of each year, six dollars. Here the six dollars
to be delivered answer to the land to be conveyed, with this stronger
ground of right, that the consideration for them has actually
been given and received. Yet, when the creditor comes to de-
mand his six dollars, he is told that he cannot have them, except
with the reservation of one dollar as a tax upon the six, or that
he cannot have them, except upon the condition of returning
one dollar as that tax. What is this but to say, that his title to the
money in this case, as to the land in the other, must depend
upon his paying, or allowing a further consideration for it, not
contemplated in the contract ? Can there be a doubt that this,
also, would be a breach of contract — a fraud ?

The true rule of every case of property, founded on contract
with the Government, is this : It must first be reduced into pos-
session, and then it will become subject, in common with other
similar property, to the right of the Government to raise contri-
butions upon it. It may be said that the Government may ful-
fil this principal, by paying the interest with one hand, and tak-
ing back the amount of the tax with the other. But to this the
answer is, that, to comply truly with the rule, the tax must be
upon all the money of the community, not upon the particular
portion of it which is paid to the public creditors ; and it ought,
besides, to be so regulated, as not to include a lien of the tax upon
the fund. The creditor should be no otherwise acted upon,
than as every other possessor of money ; and consequently, the
money he receives from the public, can then only be a fit sub-
ject of taxation, when it is entirely separated, and thrown, undis-
tinguished, into the common mass. A different practice would
amount to an evasion of the principle contended for, and to op-
pression. A rent, or annuity, liable before it passes, or in the
act of passing, or at the moment of passing from one proprietor
to another, to a deduction, or drawback, at the pleasure of the
party from whom it is to pass, is an imaginary thing, destitute
both of shape and substance.

When a Government enters into contract with an individual,
it deposes as to the matter of the contract, its constitutional
authority, and exchanges the character of legislator for that of

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 519

a moral agent, with the same rights and obligations as an
individual. Its promises may be justly considered as excepted
out of its power to legislate, unless in aid of them. It is, in
theory, impossible to reconcile the two ideas of a promise which
obliges with a power to make a law which can vary the effect of it.
This is the great principle that governs the question, and
abridges the general right of the Government to lay taxes, ex-
cepting out of it a species of property which subsists only in its
promise.

There are persons who, admitting the general rule, conceive
a distinction to exist between a tax upon the funds, which must
be paid at all events, and a tax upon alienations of them, which
will only be paid when they are transferred from one to another.
The latter they think justifiable, because it is in the option of
the creditor to avoid the tax, by avoiding the alienation. But
the difference between the two cases is only a difference in the
degree of violation.

The stock, in its creation, is made transferable. This quality
constitutes a material part of its value, and the existence of it is
a part of the contract with the Government, which has under-
taken, itself, to conduct the operation of transferring by its own
officers, and consequently at its own expense. It is as com-
pletely a breach of contract to derogate from this quality, in
diminution of the value of stock, by encumbering the transfer
with a charge or tax, as it is to take back, in the same shape, a
portion of the principal or interest. It is obvious, too, that this
may be carried so far as essentially to destroy the transferable
capacity. But what is a tax upon transfers, other than the
faculty of taking away from the actual proprietor of stock a
portion of his principal, whenever his interests or his necessities
demand a transfer, in derogation from the full enjoyment of the
right to transfer, and from the express promise of the Govern-
ment to pay to him or his alienee ? For it is upon the seller,
not upon the buyer, that such a tax will fall. And where is
the substantial difference, on the ground of contract, between
this and a direct tax upon the fund itself? The value of it is
as certainly impaired by the one as by the other.

520 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 38.

But shall the proprietor of money in the funds, then, be ex-
empt from his proportion of the burthens which other citizens
bear?

This will not be the consequence of the principle. As a con-
sumer, of which his income is the instrument, he will pay his
proportion of the taxes on consumption. As a holder of any
other species of property procured by that income, or other-
wise, which is liable to a tax, he must also contribute his pro-
portion.

But, without undue refinement, the lender of money to the
public may be affirmed to have paid his tax when he lends his
money.

Belying upon the engagement of the Government, express
or implied, that he will receive what is promised him, without
defalcation, he is content with a less interest than he would take
if subject to any such defalcation, and especially if it was to be
arbitrary as to its extent. In this lower rate of interest he
may be truly said to pay his tax, or to purchase an exemption
from it.

Here, also, we find what is decisive on the point of expedi-
ency.

If the Government had a right to tax its funds, the exercise
of that right would cost much more than it was wortli. The
money lender would exact exorbitant premiums, not omy as an
indemnification for the use which the Government might pro-
bably make of its right, and which, in practice, would be likely
to be qualified by some regard to equality of contribution, but
as an equivalent for insurance against the risk or possibility of a
more extensive use. Hence the Government would be likely to
pay much more in premiums upon its loans, than it would draw
back in taxes ; and the former being supposed but equal to
the latter, there would be no advantage in exercising tie right.

But it will be, perhaps, more safe to affirm, that there would
be no borrowing at all upon such terms. The first pre3edent of
a tax upon the funds might be expected to compel the Govern-
ment to an express renunciation of the right in every future
loan. Solid capitalists would not be much inclined to adventure

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 521

their money upon so precarious a footing as is implied in a power
of taxing their credits.

These reflections lead readily to an estimate of the impres-
sions which would be produced by the example of an imposition
on the fundss Eegarded either as a positive breach of contract,
or as a deviation from the sound maxims of credit, the effect
upon it would be nearly equally fatal. Whatever might be ex-
cused to a time of revolution, to a defect of means, or to some
extraordinary peculiarity of situation, no excuse would be ad-
mitted for a deliberate departure from principles, at a time, too,
of national prosperity, in a flourishing state of the finances, after
the foundations of a regular system had been laid. The depar-
ture would argue an incorrectness, an instability, or a depravity
of views, calculated to give a lasting shock to public credit.

The United States must, henceforth, tread with the most
cautious steps.

A renunciation of the right, in future, might not speedily
heal the wound which an example of its exercise had given.
Durable suspicions might fasten on the wisdom or the integrity of
the Government, which might occasion to it no inconsiderable loss
and embarrassment, before a course of contrary experience would
obliterate them.

The right of a Government to sequester or confiscate pro-
perty, in its funds, in time of war, involves considerations ana-
logous to those which regard the right of taxing them. Whether
the foreigner be, himself, the original lender, or the proprietor
of stock, in its constitution transferable without discrimination, he
stands upon equal ground with the citizen. He has an equal
claim upon the faith of the Government.

In the second case, as the substitute of the original lender,
the promise made attaches immediately upon him. Indeed, the
certificates which issue upon every transfer, and which may be
called the public bonds, designate him as the creditor, and ex-
pressly invest him with the correspondent rights.

To sequester or confiscate the stock, is as effectually a breach
of the contract to pay, as to absorb it by a tax. It is to anni-

c 34

522 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

hilate the promise, under the sanction of which the foreigner
became a proprietor.

But, does not the general right of war, to seize and confis-
cate enemy property, extend to the property of the citizens of
one nation in the funds of another — the two nations being at
war with each other ?

Resorting to principle as the guide, this question may, on
solid grounds, be answered in the negative.

The right to seize and confiscate individual property, in na-
tional wars, excludes all those cases where the individual de-
rives his title from the enemy sovereign or nation : for the right
to property always implies the right to be protected and secured
in the enjoyment of that property; and a nation, by the very
act of permitting the citizen of a foreign country to acquire pro-
perty within its territory, whether to lands, funds, or to any
other thing, tacitly engages to give protection and security to
that property, and to allow him as full enjoyment of it as any
other proprietor — an engagement which no state of things be-
tween the two nations can justly or reasonably affect. Though
politically right, that, in wars between nations, the property of
private persons, which depend on the laws of their own country,
or on circumstances foreign to the nation ivith which their own is at
vjar, should be subject to seizure and confiscation by the enemy
nation ; yet it is both politically and morally wrong, that this
should extend to property acquired under the faith of the Gov-
ernment, and the laws of that enemy nation.

When the Government enters into a contract with the citizen
of a foreign country, it considers him as an individual in a state
of nature, and contracts with him as such. It does not contract
with him as the member of another society.

The contracts, therefore, with him, cannot be affected by his
political relations to that society. War, whatever right it may
give over his other property, can give none over that which he
derives from those contracts. The character in which they are
made with him, the faith pledged to him personally, virtually
exempt it.

This principle, which seems critically correct, would exempt

jEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 523

as well the income as the capital of the property. It protects
the use as effectually as the thing. What, in fact, is property,
but a fiction, without the beneficial use of it ? In many cases,
indeed, the income or annuity is the property itself. And,
though general usage may control the principle, it can only be
as far as the usage clearly goes. It must not be extended by
analogy.

Some of the most approved publicists, admitting the princi-
ple, qualify it with regard to the income of lands, which they
say may be sequestered "to hinder the remittance of it to the
enemy's country."

But the same authority affirms, that a state at war " does
not so much as touch the sums which it owes to the enemy.
Every where, in case of a war, funds credited to the public, are
exempt from confiscation and seizure." These expressions clearly
exclude sequestration as well as confiscation.

The former, no less than the latter, would be inconsistent
with the declarations that a state at war does not so much as
touch the sums which it owes to the enemy, and, that funds cred-
ited to the public are exempt from seizure. And, on full in-
quiry, it is believed that the suggestion, thus understood, is
founded in fact.

Usage, then, however it may deviate in other particulars, in
respect to public funds, concurs with principle in pronouncing,
that they cannot rightfully be sequestered in time of war.

The usages of war, still savor too much of the ferocious
maxims of the times, when war was the chief occupation of man.
Enlightened reason would never have pronounced, that the per-
sons or property of foreigners, found in a country at the break-
ing out of a war between that country and their own, were liable
to any of the rigors which a state of war authorizes against the
persons and goods of an enemy. It would have decreed to
them, an inviolable sanctuary in the faith of those permissions
and those laws, by which themselves and their property had
come under the jurisdiction where they were found. It would
have rejected the treachery of converting the indulgences, and
even rights of a previous state of amity, into snares for innocent
individuals.

524 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Happily, however, the practice of latter times has left several
of those maxims little more than points of obsolete doctrine.
They still retain their rank in theory ; but usage has introduced
so many qualifications, as nearly to destroy their operation.

This appears from the acknowledgment of writers, from the
barrenness of modern history in examples of the application of
those doctrines, from the opinions known to be generally current
in Europe, and from a variety of articles which are constant for-
mulas in treaties of the present century.

The United States are every way interested in the mitigation
of the rigor of the ancient maxims of war. They cannot better
demonstrate their wisdom, than by their moderation in this
respect. Particularly interested in maintaining, in their greatest
purity and energy, the principles of credit, they cannot too strict-
ly adhere to all the relaxations of those maxims which favor the
rights of creditors. No temporary advantage can compensate for
the evils of a different course of conduct.

Credit, public and private, is of the greatest consequence to
every country. Of this, it might be emphatically called the
invigorating principle. No well informed man can cast a retro-
spective eye over the progress of the United States, from their
infancy to the present period, without being convinced that they
owe, in a great degree, to the fostering influence of credit, their
present mature growth. This credit has been of a mixed nature,
mercantile and public, foreign and domestic. Credit abroad was
the trunk of our mercantile credit, from which issued ramifica-
tions that nourished all the parts of domestic labor and industry.
The bills of credit emitted, from time to time, by the different
local governments, which passed current as money, co-operated
with that resource. Their united force, quickening the energies
and bringing into action the capacities for improvement of a new
country, was highly instrumental in accelerating its growth.

Credit, too, animated and supported by the general zeal, had
a great share in accomplishing, without such violent expedients,
as, generating universal distress, would have endangered the issue,
that Revolution, of which we are so justly proud, and to which
we are so greatly indebted.

JEt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 525

Credit, likewise, may, no doubt, claim a principal agency in
that increase of national and individual welfare since the establish-
ment of the present Government, which is so generally felt and
acknowledged, though the true causes of it are not as generally
understood. It is the constant auxiliary of almost every public
operation ; has been an indispensable one in those measures by
which our frontiers have been defended ; and it would not be
difficult to demonstrate, that, in a recent and delicate instance,
has materially contributed to the safety of the State.

There can be no time, no state of things, in which credit is
not essential to a nation, especially as long as nations in general
continue to use it as a resource in war. It is impossible for a
country to contend, on equal terms, or to be secure, against the
enterprises of other nations, without being able equally with them
to avail itself of this important resource ; and to a young country,
with moderate pecuniary capital, and not a very various industry,
it is still more necessary than to countries more advanced in
both. A truth not less weighty for being obvious and frequently
noticed.

Public credit has been well defined to be, "a faculty to
borrow, at pleasure, considerable sums on moderate terms ; the
art of distributing, over a succession of years, the extraordinary
efforts, found indispensable in one ; a mean of accelerating the
prompt employment of all the abilities of a nation, and even of
disposing of a part of the overplus of others."

This just and ingenious definition condenses to a point the
principal arguments in favor of public credit, and displays its
immense importance.

Let any man consult the actual course of our pecuniary oper-
ations, and let him then say whether credit be not eminently use-
ful. Let him imagine the expense of a single campaign in a war
with a great European Power; and let him then pronounce
whether credit would not be indispensable. Let him decide
whether it would be practicable, at all, to raise the necessary
sum by taxes within the year, and let him judge what would be
the degree of distress and oppression, which the attempt would
occasion to the community. He cannot but conclude, that war,

526 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 38.

without credit, would be more than a great calamity — would be
ruin.

But credit is not only one of the main pillars of the public
safety ; it is among the principal engines of useful enterprise and
internal improvement. As a substitute for capital, it is little less
useful than gold or silver, in agriculture, in commerce, in the
manufacturing and mechanic arts.

The proof of this needs no labored deduction. It is matter
of daily experience in the most familiar pursuits. One man
wishes to take up and cultivate a piece of land ; he purchases
upon credit, and, in time, pays the purchase money out of the
produce of the soil improved by his labor. Another sets up in
trade ; in the credit founded upon a fair character, he seeks, and
often finds, the means of becoming, at length, a wealthy merchant.
A third commences business as manufacturer or mechanic, with
skill, but without money. It is by credit, that he is enabled to
procure the tools, the materials, and even the subsistence of
which he stands in need, until his industry has. supplied him
with capital ; and, even then, he derives, from an established
and increased credit, the means of extending his undertakings.

Among the circumstances which recommend credit, and indi-
' cate its importance in the whole system of internal exertion and
amelioration, it is impossible to pass, unnoticed, its unquestion-
able tendency to moderate the rate of interest — a circumstance
of infinite value in all the operations of labor and industry.

If the individual capital of this country has become more ad-
equate to its exigencies than formerly, it is because individuals
have found new resources in the public credit — in the funds to
which that has given value and activity. Let public credit be
prostrated, and the deficiency will be greater than before. Public
and private credit are closely allied, if not inseparable. There is,
perhaps, no example of the one being in a flourishing, where
the other was in a bad state. A shock to public credit, would,
therefore, not only take away the additional means which it has
furnished, but, by the derangements, disorders, distrusts, and
false principles, which it would engender and disseminate, would
diminish the antecedent resources of private credit.

Mt. 38.] PUBLIC CREDIT. 527

The United States possess an immense mass of improvable
matter ; the development of it, continually making, may be said
to enlarge the field of improvement as it progresses ; and, though
the active capital of the country has, no doubt, considerably in-
creased, it is probable that it does not bear, at present, a much
greater proportion to the objects of employment than it has done
at any former period. Credit, upon this hypothesis, of every
kind, is nearly as necessary to us now, as it ever was. But, at
least, it may be affirmed, with absolute certainty, that, to a coun-
try so situated, credit is peculiarly useful and important.

If the United States observe, with delicate caution, the
maxims of credit, as well towards foreigners as their own
citizens, in connection with the general principles of an upright,
stable, and systematic administration, the strong attractions
which they present to foreign capital will be likely to insure
them the command of as much as they may want, in addition to
their own, for every species of internal amelioration.

Can it be doubted, that they would derive from this, in a
course of time, advantages incomparably greater than any, how-
ever tempting, that could partially result from a disregard of
those maxims, or from the exercise of a questionable right,
which should even appear to derogate from them ?

Credit is an entire thing. Every part of it has the nicest
sympathy with every other part; wound one limb, and the
whole tree shrinks and decays.

The security of each creditor is inseparable from the security
of all creditors. The boundary between foreigner and citizen
would not be deemed a sufficient barrier against extending the
precedent of an invasion of the rights of the former to the latter.
The most judicious and cautious would be most apt to reason
thus, and would only look for stronger shades of apparent neces-
sity or expediency to govern the extension. And, in affairs of
credit, the opinion of the judicious and cautious may be expected
to prevail. Hence the Government, by sequestering the property
of foreign citizens in the public funds, at the commencement of a
war, would impair, at least, if not destroy, that credit which is
the best resource in war.

528 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

It is in vain to attempt to disparage credit, by objecting to
its abuses. What is there not liable to abuse or misuse ? The
precious metals, those great springs of labor and industry, are
also the ministers of extravagance, luxury, and corruption.
Commerce, the nurse of agriculture and manufactures, if over-
driven, leads to bankruptcy and distress. A fertile soil, the
principal source of human comfort, not unfrequently begets in-
dolence and effeminacy. Even liberty itself, degenerating into
licentiousness, produces a frightful complication of ills, and
works its own destruction.

It is wisdom, in every case, to cherish whatever is useful,
and guard against its abuse. It will be the truest policy of the
United States, to give all possible energy to public credit, by a
firm adherence to its strictest maxims ; and yet, .to avoid the ills
of an excessive employment of it, by true economy and system
in the public expenditures; by steadily cultivating peace; and
by using sincere, efficient, and persevering endeavors to diminish
present debts, prevent the accumulation of new, and secure the
discharge, within a reasonable period, of such as it may be, at any
time, matter of necessity to contract. It will be wise to cultivate
and foster private credit, by an exemplary observance of the
principles of public credit, and to guard against the misuse of the
former, by a speedy and vigorous administration of justice, and
by taking away every temptation to run in debt, founded in the
hope of evading the just claims of creditors.

As an honorable evidence of this disposition, and with a view
to quiet the alarms which have been excited, and to silence,
for ever, a question which can never be agitated without serious
inconvenience, the Secretary of the Treasury, in the last place,
respectfully submits :

That there be an express renunciation, by law, of all pre-
tension of right to tax the public funds, or to sequester, at any
time, or on any pretext, the property which foreign citizens may
hold therein.

This will be particularly essential to the success of the plan
for converting the foreign into domestic debt; as the present
contracts for the Amsterdam and Antwerp debt contain an

Mt. 38.] IMPROVEMENT OF REVENUE. 529

equivalent stipulation, and there is no prospect that the creditors
would consent to a change, but upon the condition of a like
stipulation.

In the commencement of this report, it was the intention to
submit some propositions for the improvement of the several
branches of the public revenue ; but it is deemed advisable to
reserve this part of the subject for a future communication.

All which is respectfully submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

IMPROVEMENT OF THE REVENUE.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, Febuary 2, 1795.

Treasury Department, January 31, 1795.

The Secretary of the Treasury respectfully makes the following;
report to the House of Representatives :

According to the present laws, imposing duties on articles
imported into the United States, not much short of one-third of
the whole amount of the duties is derived from articles rated ad
valorem.

In other nations, where this branch of revenue, as with us, is
of principal or very considerable consequence, and where no
peculiarity of situation has tended to keep the rates of duty low,
experience has led to contract more and more the number of ar-
ticles rated ad valorem, and of course to extend the number of
those rated specifically, that is, according to weight, measure, or
other rule of quantity.

The reason of this is obvious. It is to guard against eva-
sions which infallibly happen, in a greater or less degree, where
duties are high. It is impossible for the merchants of any coun-
try to have manifested more probity than those of the United
States, on this subject; and it is firmly believed, that there never
was one in which illicit practices, to the disadvantage of the rev-

530 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

enue, have obtained so little as hitherto in this ; yet, it would be
a delusive expectation, that, with duties so considerable as those
which now exist, a disposition will not be experienced, in some
individuals who carry on our import trade, to evade the pay-
ment of them, and this to an extent sufficient to make it prudent
to guard with circumspection, and by every reasonable precau-
tion, against the success of such attempts. It is needless to re-
peat, that this will contribute as much to the interest of the fair
trader, as to that of the revenue.

It is believed that, in our system, the method of rating ad
valorem could, with convenience, be brought within a much nar-
rower compass ; and it is evident that, to do so, will contribute
materially to the security of the revenue.

The Secretary has not hitherto had leisure to digest the de-
tails of a plan for this purpose ; but, if the idea is approved, it
can be carried with due accuracy into effect, at a future session,
by an order upon the head of this Department to prepare, in the
mean time, a tariff proportioned to the actual rates of duty.

It may also be found expedient, with a similar view, to ad-
just anew the proportional rates of duty, of different kinds or
qualities, of certain articles. This observation is believed to ap-
ply, with particular force, to teas. It would be, in the opinion
•of the Secretary, advisable to throw them into three classes : to
raise somewhat the lowest rate, and to diminish considerably the
higher rates. A persuasion is entertained, founded partly upon
observation of the course of importations, that a regulation of
this kind would benefit the revenue. The same thing might be
conveniently extended to some other articles.

Advantages will also accrue from a re-adjustment of the
rates, in certain cases, by combining several rates on the same
articles, established by different acts, into one rate, and by dis-
missing inconvenient fractions, which serve to perplex the calcu-
lation of the duties. Some alteration in the terms of credit for
duties may, it is conceived, be made with advantage. Where
four months are allowed, three and six months may be substi-
tuted; and three, six, nine, and twelve, or even three, six, niner
twelve, and fifteen, to the cases of six, nine, and twelve months.

Mt. 38.] IMPROVEMENT OF REVENUE. 531

This will apportion the course of receipts more according to the
course of payments, and prevent inconvenient pressures at par-
ticular junctures.

The compensations to inspectors, especially in the ports
where the expense of living is great, and to collectors and sur-
veyors in the less productive ports, urgently demand revision,
in order to an increase of them.

The security of the revenue, in every branch, turns (it will
not be too strong to say) principally upon the officers of the low-
est grade. Hence, it is a policy no less mistaken than common,
to leave those officers without such compensations as will admit
of a proper selection of character, and prevent the temptation,
from indigence, to abuse the trust. It is certain that, in many
places, the present allowance to inspectors, on the most liberal
application of it, is inadequate to those important ends.

A similar reasoning will apply to those officers of the prin-
cipal grades, who, being in districts which produce little, are ill
compensated by the emoluments to which they are at present en-
titled. It cannot escape observation, that the safety of the revenue
must depend on equal fidelity and clue vigilance in all the districts ;
else it may become, in many cases, worth the while to resort to
particular districts, because there is a deficiency of the one or the
other. Besides, that it is in itself just and proper, that all who
are in the public service should receive adequate rewards for
their time, attention, and trouble.

The aggregate expense of collecting the duties on impost
and tonnage, is at present truly moderate — a circumstance
which facilitates the extension of allowances where they are
necessary. The system of the revenue cutters needs revision.
The utility of every institution depends on the competency of
the agents who are to execute it. The present compensations
to officers and men, compared with what may be obtained in
other similar ^nployment, unaided by collateral motives, creates
a degree of embarrassment which very much impairs the useful-
ness of the thing. It would have been, in the judgment of the
Secretary, a great mean of rendering it competent to its object,
if, as was early suggested by him, the officers of the customs had
had rank in the navy of the United States.

532 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

With regard to that branch of revenue which is constituted
by the duties upon spirits distilled within the United States, and
upon stills, it is believed that it would be an improvement, and
one which could be now made without inconvenience, to abolish
the option to pay by the gallon, of the spirits distilled, in the
cases where the duties are charged on the stills. This will leave
the alternative of paying by the year, or for less periods, upon
licenses, at the choice of the party ; an alternative which affords
sufficient accommodation to the difference of circumstances. The
option to pay by the gallon, of the spirits distilled, according to
an account to be rendered on the oath of the party, though ex-
pedient in the first experiment of the law, is objectionable, as a
permanent regulation, in a double view.

The additional discretionary latitude given to compensations
to the officers concerned in the collection of those duties, is re-
stricted to a term which will expire at the end of the next ses-
sion of Congress. It will be essential to extend it, or to fix the
compensations which will have been allowed. It is believed
that further experience will still be useful towards a definitive
legislative adjustment.

Embarrassments are experienced from the want of a concur-
rent authority in these officers, similar to that of the officers of
the customs, to make seizures within each other's surveys or
divisions. On the borders of such as are adjacent, the officers
are exposed to hazard in making seizures, and better opportuni-
ties are afforded of escaping detection.

The revenue to result from the act of the last session, laying
duties upon licenses to retailers of wines and distilled spirits,
may be improved, favorable to proportional equality, by chang-
ing the form.

One license, for selling one or more kinds of wines, puts the
greatest and the smallest dealer upon the same footing, and is so
far inequitable. To class wines into a few obvious and strongly
marked discriminations, and to render a license necessary for
each class, with a duty upon each license, would favor a just
distribution of the tax among great and small dealers, and
would, at the same time, benefit the revenue* The classes may

jEt. 38.] IMPROVEMENT OF REVENUE. 533

be as follows ; 1st. Madeira wine. 2d. Sherry wine. 3d. Port
wine. 4th. Other wines.

To secure the effect of the discrimination in favor of small
dealers, who may be in the practice of selling and sending out
different kinds of wines in small quantities, it may be provided
that not more than one license shall be necessary to any dealer
who never sells or sends out at one time more than three gallons.
And suitable penalties may be annexed to guard the condition
of the exemption.

Similar observations are applicable to licenses to retailers of
spirituous liquors. These may be thrown into three classes: 1st.
Spirits distilled from the grape, commonly called brandy. 2d.
Spirits distilled from the produce of the sugar cane, commonly
called rum. 3d. Other distilled spirits : and there may be a like
provision in favor of dealers who never sell or send out more
than three gallons at one time.

Distillers may be put, in this respect, as to the spirits they
distil, upon the same footing with importers ; that is, they may
be exempt from the license duty ; but it would seem proper to
annex these conditions to the exemption, that they shall not sell
and send out a less quantity, in one cask, vessel, or package, than
ten gallons ; and that they shall not deal in the selling at retail
of an}'- other spirits than those they themselves distil.

Or another rule may be adopted, for proportioning the tax
to the extent of the dealing ; which is, to add to the present rate
of the license certain supplemental rates, according to the yearly
rent or yearly value, by appraisement of the house or building in
which the retailers of wines or spirituous liquors shall carry on
the business.

This has been found, in practice, a convenient, and, upon the
whole, an equitable rule of proportion ; evidently more so than
one license with the same duty to all dealers indiscriminately.

It is a general and a wise national policy, to make these arti-
cles of wine and spirits as contributory to the revenue as can be
made; which can only be effected by subdividing the duties
upon them in the different stages of their passage to the con-
sumer. The branch under consideration might be an important

534 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

one. As it is now regulated it is feared that it may prove of in-
considerable consequence. The confining of the licenses for
selling spirituous liquors to foreign spirits, must give great
facility to evasions. And it has an unequal operation upon differ-
ent portions of the community.

It would promote the object of the act, which imposes duties
on sales at auction, to allow two and a half per centum to each
auctioneer, in lieu of the one per centum allowed by the ninth
section of that act. It is believed that the present allowance is
insufficient to defray the expeuse of clerkship incident to a com-
pliance with the requisitions of the law, which cannot be rendered
less particular or exact without prejudice to the revenue.

The tax upon snuff, according to a rate per pound, will be
liable to very great evasions, without regulations for a close in-
spection of the course of the business. Dispensing with these, it
seems advisable to modify the tax upon a different plan. The
proposition to lay it upon the mortar is as good a substitute as
has occurred. It appears, upon evidence which is credited, that
a snuff mill usually works about one half the year; that is,
one hundred and fifty -six working days in a year ; and yields,
per mortar, of the whole number of mortars contained in a mill,
an average of forty-five pounds of snuff per day. It follows, that
five hundred and sixty -one dollars and sixty-six cents per mor-
tar, per annum, is the equivalent of the present duty of eight
cents per pound. There are objections to this form of the tax;
but, as it appears to be generally desired by the manufacturers,
it seems advisable to forego them ; especially as the present plan
demands far more rigorous precautions for the effectual collection
of the duty than now exist, or than would be deemed expedient.

A similar difficulty attends the tax upon refined sugar ; but
a proper substitute for the present plan is not perceived. It will
fortify the revenue, and produce no undue inconvenience to the
manufacturer, if he be required to annex a ticket or tickets to
each loaf of sugar, specifying the weight in pounds ; and to each
cask, barrel, keg, box, or other package of refined sugar, specify-
ing the contents and weight in pounds, corresponding certificates
or tickets to accompany imported refined sugar. The kinds of

Mr. 38.] IMPROVEMENT IN REVENUE. 535

tickets to be furnished by the respective supervisors, and ac-
counted for to them. The observance of this regulation to be
secured by proper penalties.

The act which lays a duty on carriages for the conveyance of
persons, exempts from the duty carriages usually and chiefly em-
ployed in husbandry, and in carrying commodities. It is a
material defect in this act, as has been already experienced, that
it provides no summary mode for determining what carriages
are within the exempting description. Now, every disputed
case must be the subject of a suit in all the legal forms; which
is equally objectionable on the score of delay and expense. It
is not perceived, that any insurmountable difficulty lies in the
way of providing a remedy consistently with a due reference, in
the last resort, to the judiciary authority.

In revenue laws, too much is as great a fault as too little
simplicity. It leaves them unpro visional ; incapable of execu-
tion in a manner convenient either to the public or to indivi-
duals. The acts imposing duties on licenses for selling wines
and spirituous liquors at retail, and upon sales at auction, author-
ize allowances not exceeding two and a half per cent, for com-
pensation to officers, and for incidental expenses. The acts lay-
ing duties upon carriages for the conveyance of persons, and
upon snuff and refined sugar, make no provision for such com-
pensations, or other expenses of collection. It is the opinion of
the Secretary that the rate of two and a half per cent., in the two
first mentioned acts, is inadequate — that it ought to be extended
to five per cent., and that an equal provision should be made
for the expense of collection, under the two last mentioned acts.

The restrictions upon officers of the customs, and upon the
supervisors and other officers of inspection, with regard to the
public funds, appear to the Secretary unnecessary and incon-
venient : unnecessary, because those officers, having no concern
whatever with any branch of public business that respects the
management of the funds, can have no official influence upon the
policy or execution of the measures which regard them, further
than by a punctual collection of the revenues ; inconvenient,
because it deprives them of a mean of investing any little sums

536 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

they may save or acquire, in a mode very convenient to men
who, from situation, are less liable to avail themselves of other
opportunities. If the being stockholders can have any influence
upon them as officers, it must be of a kind favorable to the public
service, by increasing their personal interest in the exact collec-
tion of the revenue. If the idea which dictated the restrictions was,
that they might use the public money in speculations in stock, the
answer is, that this is not in their power, from the rapidity with
which it is transferred to the treasury ; and if it were practicable
for them to divert the public money, and a disposition to do it
should, in any case, exist, it might operate through other chan-
nels. In lieu of the restrictions concerning the funds, the em-
ployment of public money for private purposes, may, if thought
necessary, be still further guarded against by penalties. Those
restrictions in reference to the immediate officers of the Treasury
Department, and the Commissioners of Loans, are entirely pro-
per, and ought to be maintained ; but it is believed, that it is
not only useless, but injurious, to give them greater extension.
The multiplication of restrictions on the public officers will ren-
der greater compensations necessary, and be a source of expense
to the public.

All which is respectfully submitted,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

Note. Since the conclusion of this report, the Secretary has learnt that a bill
(the progress of which his peculiar situation had prevented his observing-) has
actually passed the two Houses, for changing the terms of six, nine, and twelve
months, into eight, ten, and twelve. This bill, besides interfering disadvantage-
ous^ with arrangements of the treasury, founded upon the existing provisions of
the laws, will, it is apprehended, tend to increase an inconvenience which the above
suggestions were meant to lessen— the too great concentration of mercantile pay-
ments. Any accidental derangement of the mercantile body, from overtrading, or
other cause, would, in this situation, endanger consequences to the treasury, which
it might be difficult to meet by other expedients ; whereas, a subdivision into
shorter and more numerous periods, by diminishing the effect, would admit, in
such cases, of an easy substitute. The merchants themselves are particularly in-
terested in this question; for the re-action upon them, of any embarrassment of
the treasury, might render that a general and lasting mischief, which might other-
wise have been only a partial and transient disorder.

jEt. 32.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 537

CIRCULAR

Treasury Department, September 22d, 1789.

Sir:

In consequence of arrangements lately taken with the Bank
of North America, and the Bank of New-York, for the accom-
modation of the Government, I am to inform you, that it is my
desire that the notes of those banks, payable either on demand
or at no longer period than thirty days after their respective
dates, should be received in payment of the duties as equivalent
to gold and silver, and that they will be received from you as
such by the Treasurer of the United States.

This measure, besides the immediate accommodation to which
it has reference, will facilitate remittances from the several States
without drawing away their specie ; an advantage in every view
important.

I shall cause you shortly to be furnished with such indications
of the genuine notes, as will serve to guard you against counter-
feits, and shall direct the manner of remitting them. In the
mean time, and until further orders, you will please to receive
them, transmitting to me a weekly account of your receipts and
payments.

The Treasurer of the United States will probably have occa-
sion to draw upon you for part of the compensation for Members
of Congress from your State. These drafts you will also receive,
in payment of the duties, or in exchange for any specie arising
from them which shall have come to your hands.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
Otho H. Williams, Esq.

Collector of the Customs,

for Baltimore, Maryland.

c 35

538 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

Treasury Department, New- York, Oct. 2d. 1789.

Sir:

As in the first establishment of revenue systems imperfections
and inconveniences will naturally present themselves in practice
which could not have been foreseen in their formation ; it is of
the greatest moment that the best information should be collect-
ed for the use of the Government, as to the operation of those
which may have been adopted.

To the obtaining of this information, as it respects the plan
for the imposition and collection of the duties, the situation of
the Collectors and Naval Officers of the several ports is in
a peculiar manner favorable, and no arguments need be used to
show that it is equally their duty and their interest to make the
best use of their opportunities for that purpose.

Not doubting that their inclination will coincide with both,
I am to request that they will carefully note, and from time to
time communicate to me, whatever may serve to discover the
merits or defects of that plan, and to point out the means of
improving it.

The complaints of the merchants will not always be infalli-
ble indications of defects, yet they will always merit attention,
and when they occur I shall be glad to be informed of them.
You will, doubtless, have observed that it has been in the con-
templation of Congress to employ boats for the security of the
revenue against contraband. I shall be glad to have your ideas
as to the expediency of employing them in your quarter, and (if
any appear to you necessary) of the number and kind you deem
requisite ; their equipment, and the probable expense. Should
any have been in use under the State regulations, I desire they
may be continued, and that I may be advised with accuracy of
the nature of their establishment.

It has been very much apprehended that the number in
several of the States would conduce to great evasions of the
duties. It is my wish to be informed how far experience has
justified the apprehension ; and what can be done to correct the
mischiefs which may have ensued, avoiding as much as possible

jEt. 32.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 539

the inconvenience which the multiplication of ports was designed
to obviate.

In limiting these particulars it is not my aim to confine your
attention to them only ; it will give me pleasure to find that your
observations have been as diffusive as the object is extensive.

The whole of the forms for keeping and rendering your
accounts not being yet completed, it is not in my power to
furnish you with them at present ; I, however, transmit you the
most material form,' which is a quarterly abstract of duties aris-
ing on merchandise imported.

The same form with an alteration as to time will answer for
a return of duties arising monthly, and which you will forward
to this office at the end of every month.

In mine of the 22d of September, I directed you to render
me a weekly account of your receipts and payments. I now
inclose you a form for rendering this account, which, I trust,
will be punctually complied with.
I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
Otho H. Williams, Esq.,
Baltimore.

P. S. — In addition to the papers mentioned in this letter, you
will find inclosed a quarterly abstract of duties arising on the
tonnage of vessels. A similar return you will be pleased to
transmit monthly.

Treasury Department, October 10, 1789.

Sir:

I observe that, by the 24th section of the act for registering
and clearing vessels, &c, it is provided that vessels bound to
foreign ports should deliver manifests of their cargoes to the
collectors of the ports from which they are to sail.

The object of this provision doubtless was to obtain a know-
ledge of the exports of the country, to carry which into effect, I

540 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

am to desire that a regular account may be kept of the articles
exported, and quarter-yearly returns be made to this office.

To render these returns uniform, I shall shortly transmit a
model. The first I shall expect to receive will be to be made up
to the last of December, which I shall be glad to have as speedily
as possible — after that time, to be ready for the inspection of
Congress when they meet.

Inclosed you will receive an act for suspending part of the
act for regulating the collection of the duties, tonnage, &c, &c.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, October 14, 1789.

Sir:

Inclosed I send you, agreeable to an intimation in a former
letter, the signatures of the president and cashier of the banks of
North America and New- York, together with a general descrip-
tion of those notes, which will enable you to guard against impo-
sitions and counterfeits.

When the notes are payable to any particular person, and not
to bearer, you will take care that there is an indorsement of
that person, and if you should not know his handwriting, you
will require an indorsement by the person who presents the note
in payment.

The mode in which the bank notes are to be transmitted is
this : each note is to be divided into two equal parts, from top to
bottom — one part containing the name of the president and sum ;
the other, the name of the cashier and sum. Your own name,
in your own handwriting, is to be written on the back of each
half, together with the number and sum of the note. In case of
the notes payable to particular persons, and not to bearer, you
will previously fill up the indorsement to Samuel Meredith,
Treasurer. Having used these precautions, you will remit all the
notes in hand weekly, by the post, to Samuel Meredith ; that is
to say, one-half of each note by one post, and the other half by

jEt. 32.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 541

the next, accompanied in both cases with a list of the notes,
which list shall specify of what bank they are, the number, the
dates, the sums, and periods of payment ; that is, whether on
demand, or so much after date.

For your own security, in case of accident, you will take a
receipt from the postmaster, on a copy of the list which you
retain, and which will be your voucher, purporting the delivery
of a letter addressed to Samuel Meredith, containing the moieties
of the notes specified in the list, amounting to such a sum, which
sum must be written at large.

Should any postmaster refuse such a receipt (which, however,
I do not expect will happen), till the matter can be otherwise
regulated, you will get one of your clerks, or some other indiffer-
ent person of fair reputation, to witness the delivery of your
letter, with the notes, to the post-office, which person must be
acquainted with the contents, and the particulars, so as to be
able afterwards to verify on oath, that such specific notes were
sent ; and, instead of the receipt of the postmaster, must give a
certificate, on the copy of the list you retain, of like import of the
receipt proposed to be given by the postmaster.

In mine of the 22d of September, I directed you to receive, in
payment of the duties, the notes of the banks of North America
and New- York. I now add, that you are to exchange any specie,
which may at any time be in your hands, for them, with this re-
striction, that you shall not exchange any of the specie which, in
your weekly return of receipts and payments, you state to be in
hand, but only the specie you may receive between one return
and another. The reason for this restriction will better explain
to you my meaning. I propose that the treasurer shall draw
orders on you, from time to time, for the specie, which you shall
return as remaining in your hands. Of course, it is necessary, to
prevent disappointment to the holders of the orders, that you
should retain that sum in specie, to answer them, as bank notes
might not, in every case, be equally suitable. But the sums you
receive in specie, between one return and another, may be safely
exchanged for bank notes, as the balance only will appear in
your returns, and will be drawn for.

542 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

The bank notes specified in your weekly returns must be for-
warded weekly by the same post which brings the return, with-
out waiting any special order, directed to the Treasurer of the
United States ; and this package, so directed, must be inclosed
in another, addressed to me as Secretary of the Treasury. Be-
sides the descriptive return, which you are to transmit to the
Treasurer, you will at the same time inclose a copy of it directed
to myself.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.
Otho H. Williams, Esq.

Treasury Department, Oct. 20, 1789.

Sir:

As some difficulty may be experienced in furnishing the
weekly returns as far as it respects the bonded duties with pre-
cision, I think it necessary to say, by way of explanation, that I
only expect accuracy in what relates to cash, and that in regard
to the bonded duties, I shall be content with estimated sumsT
merely to convey a general idea of the product of the duties.
You must, however, understand that it is my intention, even in
cases where no cash has been received or bonds taken, a weekly
return should be transmitted, specifying the above circumstances.

There are three other points before I conclude to which I must
turn your attention. The first respects the forms of manifests.
From some which have been lately produced at this office, I
observe that, for want of attention in filling them up, it would be
no difficult matter for the master of a vessel to insert articles
not known to the Collector of the port where she cleared after
the manifest was sworn to before him. In order to guard against
such attempts, you will be pleased to attend to the following
points in filling up these manifests.

1st. The quantities of the articles included in the manifest
must be expressed in letters, not in figures.

jEt. 32.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 543

2d. Each article composing the same must be classed and
numbered distinctly ; that is to say, supposing the articles were
ten hogsheads of tobacco, twenty barrels of flour, and six tierces
of rice — they must be so expressed :

No. 1. — Ten hhds. tobacco.
" 2.— Twenty bbls. flour.
" 3.' — Six tierces rice.

And for the greater security, you must, in the certificate
annexed to the manifest, specify, in letters, the number of articles
contained therein, which, in the instance above stated, would be
three articles.

The second relates to the duties on tonnage. A doubt has
been expressed by some Collectors whether vessels are liable to
pay tonnage at each entry. On this point the opinion of counsel
has been taken, in conformity to which, it is my duty to inform
you that the tonnage duty must be paid in all cases where it is
necessary for a vessel to make an entry, unless such cases are
otherwise specially provided for by law.

The third is, whether duties on articles of the manufacture of
America, exported to foreign parts for the purpose of sale and
again imported for want of a market, or any other cause, are
liable to the same duties as foreign goods of the same kind.
Notwithstanding this case has not probably been in the contem-
plation of Congress, and may bear hard in some instances on
individuals, the Act does not admit of an exemption of the
duties, and of course, till legislative relief can be obtained, the
officers of the customs must govern themselves accordingly.

I am, Sir, &c,

A. Hamilton.

Treasury Department. Nov. 30, 1789.

Sir:

Having been applied to by the Collectors of several ports for
my opinion on various points which are of general concern, and

544 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 32.

in respect to which it is important that the same rules should
be everywhere observed, I have concluded to make my answers
to their inquiries the subject of a circular letter.

Some of those inquiries relate to the allowance to which the
officers of the customs are entitled for services performed in pur-
suance of the twenty-second, twenty-fifth, twenty-sixth, twenty-
seventh, and twenty-eighth sections of the Act for registering
and clearing vessels.

As the proper construction of these clauses is of importance
to the interest and safety of the officers, that consideration was
an additional motive for care in the investigation, and thinking
it expedient in a case of mere construction to assist my own
judgment by the advice of professional men, I stated the ques-
tion which had been submitted to me to two gentlemen of the
law in this city, eminent for their ability, and I herewith transmit
a copy of the opinion they have given.

The truth of that opinion, as it respects the four last of the
enumerated sections, must depend on the meaning of that clause
of the thirty-first section of the same Act, which allows for every
entry of inward cargo directed to be made in conformity to that
act, and for receiving of, and qualifying to, every manifest of
vessels licensed to trade as aforesaid, sixty cents. The entry of
an inward cargo, and the receiving and qualifying to manifests,
being coupled together by the word " and" appear to be parts
of one service, for which sixty cents are allowed : of course
where there is no entry of inward cargo, one part of the service
is wanting, and therefore the allowance cannot apply.

Viewing that point in this light, it is only necessary for me to
add that my own judgment, upon full reflection, corresponds in
every particular with the opinion given to me, though I perceive
that the consequence will be in some instances an unequal appor-
tionment of reward to service.

But it appears to me an important principle of public policy
that allowances to officers should not be extended by implica-
tion or inference, as discretion on that head must, from the
nature of the thing, be liable to great abuses.

As far as the construction now given may tend to a disparity

Mr. 32.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 545

between the service and the compensation, I shall esteem it my
duty at a proper moment to propose to the legislature an alter-
ation in the provisions. In the mean time, that consequence
must of necessity be disregarded.

I am, &c.

Treasury Department, 18th December, 1789.

Sir:

As one of the periods for the payment of bonds taken for
duties is arrived, it is proper that the respective Collectors should
be apprised of my expectation with regard to the conduct to be
observed by them. It is, that if the bonds are not paid as they
fall due, they be immediately put in suit. On this point, the
most exact punctuality will be considered as indispensable. And
accordingly it will be expected, that every bond which shall
appear in a monthly return after the period at which it was
payable, be accompanied with a note at foot of the return, signi-
fying that it, is in suit, and expressing the time of the commence-
ment of the suit. I am not unaware, that the relaxations in this
respect, which obtained in many instances under the State laws,
may give an air of rigor to this instruction ; but I consider its
strict observance as essential not only to the order of the finances,
but even to the propriety of the indulgence which the law
allows of procrastinated terms of payment of the duties — and
hence I regard this strictness as eventually most convenient to
individuals, as well as necessary to the public.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

Treasury Department, December 23, 1789.

Sir:

My opinion having been several times asked on the following
points, I think it proper, in order to produce uniformity of prac-
tice, to convey it in a circular instruction.

546 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \JEt. 32

First, whether the tonnage of foreign vessels ought to be
taken from their registers, or ascertained by admeasurement,
according to the principles of the third section of the act for
registering.

I am of opinion that the latter ought to "be the case, not only
because it is agreeable to the letter of that section, but because
it cannot be presumed that the Legislature intend to favor
foreign vessels in this respect, which would be the case if the
tonnage expressed in their registers should govern, as the mode
of admeasurement prescribed by our laws makes the tonnage
greater than that which prevails in other countries.

Secondly, whether a vessel not licensed as a coaster or for the
fishing trade, going from one district to another, shall enter and
pay tonnage at the last, and at what rate. I am of opinion, that
there must be an entry in each district — and that the entry will
draw with it the payment of tonnage in each. But the rate will
depend on the circumstances. If there be nothing to constitute
a trading between the districts, within the meaning of the last clause
of the 23d section of the Coasting Act, the rate of tonnage in
each district will be the same, and will be determined by the
particular description of the Tonnage Act, under which the
vessel may fall.

But if there be such a trading between the districts, the rate
of tonnage will be fifty cents.

The question then is, What is to be deemed a trading between
the districts? "Without attempting a precise definition of the
thing, I will state as a guide some cases which, in my opinion, are
or are not so.

First, if a vessel arriving from abroad at one district with a
cargo, proceeds with the whole or a part of that identical cargo to
any other district. I do not conceive this to be a trading between
the districts.

Secondly, if a vessel bound to a foreign port takes in a part
of her outward cargo at one district, and proceeds to another to
take in a part of her outward cargo, this also, in my opinion, is not
a trading between the districts.

JEt. 33.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 547

But, thirdly, if in any case a vessel not licensed aforesaid;
take in a, freight at one district to be delivered at another, this is to
be deemed a trading between the districts, and subjects her to
the rate of foreign tonnage.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, March 30, 1790.

Sir:

Having observed that the several Collectors have hitherto
differed in the mode of transmitting to this office the drafts of
the Treasurer of the United States, which have been drawn on
them and paid; I now desire that those drafts, with a receipt
endorsed on them, may be transmitted as soon as they are paid
to my office, when they shall be covered by a regular warrant, and
your account credited at the Treasury.

In addition to the receipt on the bill, you may, for your own
security, take a separate receipt from the holder, which you will
retain; and as a further precaution, it may be well, when you
forward those drafts, to do it under the eye of some disinterested
person, who, in case they should miscarry, can give evidence of
their having been sent on.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, May 17, 1790.

Sir:

It appears probable that the public interests would be pro-
moted by my receiving the earliest information, when breaches
of the Ee venue Laws take place. I therefore request that when-
ever a seizure shall be made within the sphere of your duty, you
will transmit me, by the first opportunity, an account of the

548 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 34.

transaction, containing such particulars as will enable me fully to
understand the case.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.
Addressed

Sharp Delany, Esq.,

Collector, &c, Philadelphia.

[private.]

Philadelphia, April 23, 1791.

Dear Sir :

Your letters of the 7th of December and 19th of January
have come duly to hand.

What you mention concerning manifests and certificates of
drawback certainly merits consideration. When the collection
law originated, Consuls were not yet appointed. You will
oblige me by freely intimating whatever occurs to you, for the
benefit of our trade and revenue law ; whether arising from
your observations on the practice of other countries, or from your
own reflections.

I am, Sir, &c,

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

Treasury Department, May 12th, 1791.

Sir:

I am instructed by the Secretary of the Treasury to transmit
you the inclosed form of a return of outward tonnage, which he
desires to have made up at each Custom House in the United
States, for the year preceding the first day of the last month,
that is, from the first of April, 1790, to the thirty-first of March,
1791, inclusively of both days. The documents already furnish-
ed by the Collectors have enabled the clerks to make out with
accuracy a similar return of the inward tonnage, but it is found

jEt. 34.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 549

necessary also to be minutely informed of the destination of the
vessels which load in our ports.

You will perceive that the column on the left hand contains
the names or descriptions of places which it is deemed necessary
to attend to. It is not thought material, for example, to show in
this document the vessels which have arrived from Amsterdam,
separately from those from Rotterdam. The head of the " United
Nertherlands " comprises both. Against each country, island, &c,
in that left hand column, is to be placed the tonnage of each na-
tion, American or foreign, which has been cleared out therefor ;
for which a separate column is provided in the form. At the
end of the line, the sum total of the tonnage from the island,
place, or kingdom, under the several flags is to be inserted.

The identical paper now transmitted is to- be returned
completed, as it is wished that the kind of information it will
contain will be concentred, and you will perceive that accident
might subject it to purposes unfavorable to the interests of the
United States. You will be pleased carefully to preserve the
rough preparatory papers till you are informed of the receipt of
the completed return by the Secretary of the Treasury, when
those rough drafts are to be destroyed.
I am, Sir, very respectfully,

Your most obedient servant,

Tench Coxe,

Assistant Secretary.

To Otho H. Williams,

Collector of Baltimore.

Treasury Department, May 13, 1791.

Sir:

I find instances that have occurred in some of the Custom
Houses of receiving the duties on goods by estimates formed
upon the invoices, or the statement of the masters and owners of
vessels; and by other means than actual gauging, weighing,
measuring, &c. This, it is manifest, is not conformable to
law, and may lead to practices very injurious to the Ee venue.

550 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

Neither is it necessary to the accommodation of the merchant,
who by the last Collection Act is at liberty to carry his goods
from one district to another, paying the duties in the districts for
which they are destined upon the goods only that are landed in
each. I have, therefore, to desire that the duties on goods may
in no instance be ascertained, but on the actual landing thereof,
and by no means but by the measuring, weighing, gauging, in all
cases wherein those operations are required by law. If vessels
bound to other places put into your district, the mere securing
thereof the duties to be paid in the district for which the goods
are destined, is to be done by estimation in the manner prescrib-
ed by law, but no estimation is to be accepted when the duties
are to be paid to you.

A question has also been stated for my determination, whether
the inspector put on board a vessel in one district to go to an-
other, is to superintend the landing of the goods in the last dis-
trict. I am of opinion that he is not, and that his authority on
board the vessel terminates the moment she reports herself in
the last district.

I am, Sir, &c,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, July 8, 1791.

Sir:

I have already written to you in regard to the disbursements
of the Eevenue Cutter on your station, except the pay of the
officers and men, and have now to request that you will duly
attend to that business also, so as to have in your hands the
entire agency. A form will be transmitted to you, in which you
will make your quarterly returns at the same periods, though
distinctly, as in the Custom House Departments. And in the
mean time, as some arrears of pay are due you, you will dis-
charge the demands of the officers from the dates of their com-
missions, and of the seamen, from the time when they were
shipped, taking sufficient vouchers for your payments.

I am, Sir, etc.,

A. Hamilton.

Mr. 34.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 551

Treasury Department, Aug. 5, 1791.

Sir:

It has been stated to me, that in some districts a practice
has obtained of measuring vessels of the United States previously
measured, and of charging for such admeasurement. This,
though perhaps within the letter of the law, does not appear to
be within what may be reasonably supposed to be its true intent,
and is of a complexion to excite dissatisfaction. It is with
difficulty presumable, that the Legislature could have intended
to withhold credit from the acts and certificates of its own offi-
cers, so as to render an admeasurement in each district into
which a vessel might happen to come necessary, and to subject
the merchant to repetition of the expense incident to that idea.
The case of foreign vessels is different, because the documents
they can produce are the acts of officers of another government.
This practice, therefore, wherever it may have obtained, is to be
forborne, though, if any reasons shall be offered in support of it,
they shall be duly considered.

It will be satisfactory to receive a copy of the table of fees,
at each Custom House, which is directed to be set up by the
54th section of the Collection Law. Uniformity in practice as to
the article of fees is particularly desirable. The want of it has
already been a source of complaint, and is of a nature to pro-
duce both discontent and censure.

I am, Sir,

A. Hamilton.

Treasury Department, September 21, 1791.

Sir:

It being necessary to ascertain correctly the state of the
public moneys in the several Custom Houses, I inclose you a
form of a return of bonds which may not be paid with punc-
tuality, which it is my desire that you regularly transmit at foot
of every monthly return of bonds, though there should be none
unpaid, noting in the proper column that the fact is so.

Those parts which are printed in italic characters are pro-

552 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 34.

posed to be varied as the dates, parties, names, sums, &c, shall,
in the future course of business, require. In order to show the
state of things at the time of commencing the transmission of
these returns, it will be proper, that the first monthly schedule
of bonds, which you shall send forward, after the receipt of this
letter, shall be accompanied with a general return of bonds un-
paid (if any such there be), from the opening of the Custom
House, in your district, to the time of making up the return.

It will be proper, in future, that all draughts of the Trea-
surer upon you have a hole cut or punched through his signa-
ture, about one-half of an inch in diameter, prior to your trans-
mitting them to this office.

The following regulation is proposed hereafter, with respect
to cancelled certificates of registry and enrolment. When a
master or owner of a vessel, or any person in their behalf shall
deliver a certificate of registry or enrolment to any Collector
from whose district the same shall not have been issued, the said
certificate of enrolment is, before filing, to be punched or cut
through, in the place of the signature of the Secretary of the
Treasury or Collector, with a hole of not less than half an inch
diameter. After which, the said certificate is to be transmitted
by the first post to this office, where the margin containing the
subscription and seal of the Custom House officers will be cut off
and transmitted with the requisite memorandums for cancelling
the bond, and may be filed in your office.

In regard to the admeasurement of vessels, I think it neces-
sary to give the following instructions :

1st. All foreign vessels are to be admeasured whenever they
shall arrive in your district, under circumstances which occasion
the tonnage duty to accrue upon them ; and 2d, all vessels of the
United States are to be admeasured anew upon every change of
property, or upon their introduction as vessels belonging to your
district from some other district, in which they were before
owned ; or in other words, whenever it is necessary to grant a
new register.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

JEa. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 553

P. S. It is much wished that the returns of duties on tonnage,
and goods imported for the quarter ending the last of September,
may be forwarded with all possible dispatch, in order to prepare
for Congress, early in the session, a general return of the year
preceding.

Treasury Department, February 2, 1792.

Sir:

In a former letter you were constituted the agent for the cut-
ter destined for the station of New- York. I have now to inform
you that authority of directing its movements is henceforward ,
committed to you, subject to the instructions which shall be
transmitted from this Department.

I shall communicate this arrangement to the captain of the
cutter on the New-York station.

I am, Sir, &c,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, February 6, 1792.

Sir:

It is my wish that you transmit to this office a return of l In-
public property, exclusive of cash and bonds, in the hands of all
the officers of the customs in your district ; that is to say, the
scales, weights, boats, &c, which may be in the hands or charge
of any officer of the customs, from the collector to the inspector
or inspectors. This return it will be fit that you also transmit
with your quarterly accounts, on the 31st of December next, and
so for each succeeding year.

Should the register of the brig Lydia, of Washington, North
Carolina, appear at your office, it is to be detained, proof being
before me that the brig has been sold. The certificate is No. 4
of 22d April, 1790, James Ehodes, owner and master, and states
the vessel to be of 98|- tons, square-sterned, and without a head.
The brig being now in the port of Philadelphia, this instruction

c 36

554 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

is not extended to the vessel, but is confined to the certificate of
registry.

It is my desire, whenever any person's bond for duties shall
be put in suit by you, that you will transmit information to the
collectors of the several ports within the State in which you
reside, in order that further credit may be refused, according to
law, during the default ; and should it be common for the im-
porters in your district to use other adjacent ports, or should you
know that such defaulter uses any such ports to make his im-
portations, you will give notice in such places also. When the
bonds shall be discharged, information thereof should be given
at such of the custom-houses as may have been notified of the
default.

Ample time having been given to the commanders of vessels
trading to foreign ports, it is my desire that the 9th section of
the collection law may hereafter be enforced.

I am, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.
Otho H. Williams, Esq.

Treasury Department, February 21, 1792.

Sir:

In pursuance of arrangements with the Bank of the United
States, I have to desire that after the expiration of a month from
the time of the receipt of this letter, you will discontinue the
execution of my former instructions concerning the receipt and
exchange for specie, of the cash notes and post notes of the banks
of North America and New- York.

The regularity of the service requires that none of the officers
of the cutters should be absent from them at any time without a,
written leave of furlough, which you will take an opportunity tc
communicate to them. The propriety or necessity of these ;tb
sences you will judge of.

It is wished by the treasurer that the drafts paid at tht

At. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 555

custom-houses may be transmitted, as soon as possible after their
discharge, to the treasury.

It will be best, therefore, that the drafts mentioned in your
weekly returns of cash paid and received, should always be
inclosed in them.

I am, Sir, &c,

A. Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury.

Treasury Department, May 10, 1792.

Sir:

It is my wish that, in your official correspondence with the
Secretary of the Treasury, you will henceforth make it a rule to
designate your office, and the place where it is kept, upon the
outside of your letters.

When weekly returns are transmitted which require no par-
ticular remark, it will be agreeable to me, and save trouble to you,
if they be simply put under blank covers and directed in the form
of a letter.

I inclose you a form of an account of bonds remaining un-
cancelled, taken in your district, for the securing the bonding of
duties, in some other district, upon goods reported at your office,
to bo intended to be landed in some other district. This return
you will make, in the first instance, on the receipt of the form,
and afterwards, with your quarterly accounts, from time to time.

It is my desire that application be made by letter to the ob-
ligors who may reside in your district, in all cases wherein
bonds heretofore executed now remain uncancelled, if dated
th roe months since; and that all such as now arc, or shall be
uncancelled, at the end of four months from their date, be put
in suit.

I am, Sir,

A. Hamilton.

556 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

Treasury Department, June 8, 1792.

Sm:

The 66th, 67th, and 68th sections of the Collection Law make
I it» 'visions respecting the prosecution, receipt, appropriation, and
distribution of and for fines, penalties, and forfeitures, under that
act. The provision is less precise and clear than could be
wished, and may require Legislative revision. In the mean time,
it is indispensable that some arrangement should be made and
observed, consulting such indications as are to be found in the
law, and pursuing the most convenient and orderly course.

The 66th section appears to contemplate the Collector as the
person who is to direct in the first instance, prosecutions for fines,
penalties, and forfeitures, and who is to receive, distribute, and
pay their proceeds. This seems to be a leading idea, and one
which will most conveniently guide the arrangement.

As an incident of the duty of prosecuting, the paying of all
expenses incurred will belong to the Collectors ; these expenses,
being truly charges on the collection of the revenue, will be
properly paid out of the product of the duties, when they cannot
be defrayed by the issue of the prosecutions.

As the Collector is to cause suits to be instituted, and from
official situation must know the circumstances of each case, he
can also best adjust the expenses — the taxation of the proper
officers of Courts will guide as to the ordinary Court charges.
A separate account must be stated of the charges attending each
suit, and of the proceeds, that is, the value recovered, if any,
and of the distribution. A form will be transmitted by the
Comptroller.

The proceeds of forfeited vessels and goods, and the sums
recovered as for pecuniary fines and penalties, will naturally
come in the first instance into the hands of the Marshals. These
they will pay over to the respective Collectors, who will pay the
charges and distribute the net remainder.

When judgment is rendered against the public, or when,
though in favor of the public, and nothing is or can be recovered,
the plaintiff's costs and charges must be defrayed by the Collector
out of the product of the duties.

JEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 557

When judgment is rendered in favor of the public, and
something is both recovered and received, it is to be applied in
the first instance towards the payment of expenses. If not
sufficient, the moiety of the net surplus is to be accounted for to
the public by the Collector, as a specific fund, subject to special
appropriation, and the other moiety is to be distributed among
the parties entitled, as the law directs.

The same arrangement is to be observed with regard to

penalties an4 forfeitures under the Eegistering and Coasting

Act.

I am, with much consideration,

Sir, your most obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department, July 20th, 1792

Sir:

It is with great satisfaction I have it in my power to acknow-
ledge the zeal and good disposition, with which the officers of the
customs generally have executed the instructions which have
from time to time proceeded from the Treasury Department. I
am happy to be able to say, that the instances of exception are
few, and I ascribe such as have happened, rather to an inaccurate
view of the subject, than to improper intention.

But as a few instances exist of deliberate deviations from
instructions, and as explanations in one or two cases disclose
opinions which in practice would be subversive of uniformity in
the execution of the laws, it becomes advisable to state the ideas
which are entertained at the Treasury respecting the nature
of the power of the head of the Department, " to superintend
the collection of the revenue," and the obligation incident to
it on the part of the officers immediately charged with that
collection.

This will be done, to obviate, as far as possible, misconcep-
tions, which may not only disturb the course of public business,
but may lead to disagreeable discussions, and even perhaps to
painful altercations.

558 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

It is my earnest "wish to cultivate harmonious and cordial
co-operation; and it is essential to this, that correct opinions
should be mutually entertained. If those I shall express are
liable to objections, I shall be glad they may be freely made, and
I promise maturely and candidly to consider the force of them.

The Act constituting the Treasury Department, expressly
makes it the duty of the head of the Department, " to super-
intend the collection of the revenue."

The power of vij><-fintcndiitrj the collection of the revenue, as
incident to the duty of doing it, comprises, in my opinion, among
a variety of particulars not necessary to be specified, the right
of settling, for the government of the officers employed in the
collection of the several branches of the revenue, the construction
of the laws relating to the revenue, in all cases of doubt.

This right is fairly implied in the force of the terms " to
superintend," and is essential to uniformity and system in the
execution of the laws.

It is evident that, without it, the most incongruous practices
upon the same laws might obtain in different districts of the
! iiitcd States, according to the different portions of intelligence
and attention of different officers, and according to the different
mediums through which objects are often seen, even with equal
degrees of intelligence and attention.

Merchants might have to pay higher duties at one port than
at another, upon the same articles ; higher fees at one port than
another for the same services; and might otherwise be sub-
jected to very dissimilar burthens and requisitions. Such a state
of things would undoubtedly be a state of disorder, inconsistent
with every idea of a well-regulated government, and would have
a natural tendency to produce discontent and disgust among
individuals, and to bring upon the laws contempt and odium.

It is true that a remedy, in a large proportion of the cases, might
be obtained from the courts of justice; but the vexatious course o* I
tedious lawsuits to decide whether the practice of one officer or
of another was the most legal, would be a mode of redress very
unsatisfactory to suffering parties, and very ill suited, as an ordi- I
nary expedient, to the exigencies and convenience of trade.

jEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 559

A reference has been made to the oath of office, prescribed
by the first collection law for the officers of the customs.

They are by that law severally required to swear or affirm,
that they will execute and perform all the duties of their re-
spective offices according to law ; whence it seems to have been'
inferred, that they are bound each to pursue his own opinion of
the meaning of the law.

But it is conceived that an officer of the customs executes his
duty according to law, when, in the cases mentioned, he conforms
his conduct to the construction which is given to the law by
that officer, who, by law, is constituted the general superin-
tendent of the collection of the revenue. The power to super-
intend must imply a right to judge and direct; of course an
obligation to observe the directions which are given, on the part
of those to whom they are addressed. The observance of them,
therefore, cannot be contrary to the engagement of an officer to
execute the duties of his office according to law ; because, as a
general principle, it is a part of his duty, enjoined by the law,
to pursue those directions, and because, of course, the responsi-
bility for a wrong construction rests with the head of the depart-
ment, when it proceeds from him.

It is not possible to conceive how an officer can superintend
the execution of a law for the collection of a tax or duty, or for
any other purpose, unless he is competent to the interpretation
of the law, or, in other words, has a right to judge of its meaning.
If, then, that competency and right are attached to the head of
the Treasury Department, as general superintendent of the col-
lection of the revenue, it must follow that his judgments are
directory to those who are merely superintendents within par-
ticular spheres, as the collectors of the customs within their re-
spective districts. For it is an universal principle of jurispru-
dence, and a clear dictate of reason, that authorities within par-
ticular spheres are subordinate to a general authority relating to
the same subject, and pervading the whole of them.

I am aware of the reasonable limitations to which the general
principle is subject ; as restrictions in the nature of things upon
abuses of authority, applying as well to the operation of laws as

560 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

of instructions relating to their execution. But the admission
of exceptions in extraordinary cases, does not militate against
the general rule.

"With regard to the oath* which is prescribed to the officers of
the customs, it is to be observed that it is equally prescribed to
all of them, from the collector down to the inspector of the
customs. It is easy to discern the confusion which would result
from the principle that each of these officers is bound, by his
oath, to pursue his own construction of the law, though contrary
to that of his official superior.

Two instances shall be mentioned for the sake of illustration,
in which the binding force of instructions from this department
has been either questioned, or in practice denied.

One relates to the duty on spikes. The acts of the first and
second session, which impose duties on imported articles, lay a
duty of one per cent, per pound on "nails and spikes," expressly
naming each, and thereby implying that the one was not in-
cluded in the other. In the act of the last session for raising a
further sum of money for the protection of the frontiers, and for
other purposes therein mentioned, nails are rated at two cents
per pound, and nothing is said about spikes.

The construction upon this at the Treasury, and which has
been signified by the Comptroller, is, that the duty on spikes re-
mains as before, and that the duty on nails only is varied ; the
reasons of which construction are, that the legislature named
spikes in one instance and did not name them in the other; and
though there is a duty of ten per centum ad valorem on manu-
factures of iron generally, yet it is with the exception of those
otherwise particularly enumerated ; which expressions not being
confined to the act in which they are used by the usual word
herein, or any word of similar import, naturally extend to enu-
merations in any prior act as well as those in which they are
used. Consequently spikes, being among the enumerated articles
in the previously existing law, were considered as excepted, and
as continuing under the same duty as before. The last act does

* In the new Collection law, the words, " according to law," are omitted, which
is barely mentioned, to show that the Legislature laid no stress upon them.

JEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. .r)61

not alter the duties generally, but merely on such articles as are
therein enumerated and described.

A doubt has nevertheless been communicated, not only as to
the justness of this construction, but whether an officer who
doubts is, in such a case, at liberty from the tenor of his oath* to
comply with it.

The other case alluded to, relates to the question of fees un-
der the coasting act. The instructions which were given under
this head, though punctually observed in most of the districts,
have been materially departed from in some of them.

The first being a case relating merely to the quantum of re-
venue, is certainly one in which the opinion of the officer at the
head of the finances of the United States ought to be conclu-
sive.

The second being a question between the pecuniary rights of
the officers, and the pecuniary obligations of the citizens, in a
point which their contentment or dissatisfaction with the laws,
and the interest and convenience of a most precious branch of
commerce, the coasting trade, were materially concerned, it is
conceived, that the opinion of the officer, who, by law, is charged
with the general superintendence of the collection of the revenue,
ought to have prevailed.

These examples are mentioned to show to those officers, whose
practice has been undeviatingly conformable to the general prin-
ciple which has been inculcated, that the assertion of it has
been called for by instances of departure from it. And the
foregoing observations are addressed, circularly, rather than to
individual officers, whose practices in these instances has ren-
dered them necessary, for three reasons. 1. That as misconcep-
tions have taken place in some instances, it is possible that simi-
lar misconceptions may happen in others, and it is wished to
anticipate and prevent them, from an ardent desire to avoid
sources of misunderstanding, as well as occasions of interruption
to the due course of the public business. 2. From the possibility
that deviations may have happened in more instances than are
known at the treasury. And, 3. From a wish to pursue the
most delicate mode of animadversion. But while I am desirous,

HAMILTON'S wok k s. Bt. 3.r>.

od public principles, ofestabli bing what I suppose to be correct
views of lip- i>i-i and nea ary authority <>r this department, I
• thai nothing I have said will tend to discourage freedom
of observation of an ruction which maj issue from it I

shffl] constantly think myself indebted t<> anj officer who shall
give me an opportunity <>f rei an opinion, with the aid of

his mil. IikIi may appear to him not consonant with law,

with his own right . or with the good of the service. To e^ ery

communicati f this sort, I have always paid, and shall always

careful attention. Ami as often as I can be convinced of
an error, I shall with cheerful] knowledge and retract it

W ith great consideration, I am, Sir,

Sfour obed't serv't,

A. IIamii.imn.

i . , 1 1 in Julj

Sra

Wh.ii an appeal was made to me, bj certain officers of the
custom the fees to which thej were entitled under

the ( '"•' Let, I took the onlj method then in my power, t<>

aid my own judgment to a right decision. The A.ttorm
not being at the Beat of government, I applied to two of the
most able counsel in the city oi New-York (one of whom is the
attorney of the I nited Statea for the district), for their opinions.
I carefully examined the law m] reeingwith i

gentlemen in the construction of it, I signified the result in :i
circular i tmunication.

It, however, has since appeared, that the construction, then
adopted, hi □ deemed \<\ some of the officers of the

toms bo clearly unfounded, as, in their opinion, to warrant ;i de-
parture from the instruction given. Ami it hi > appea
that respectable law opinions were opposed to those of the
tlemen whom I had consulted.

ii 1 I not been in continual expectation that :i new law

dd have obviated the difficulty, I should have taken much

JEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. -r>G3

earlier measures to settle the question in some definitive, and if
possible, satisfactory mode. But session after session having
passed, and further delay being still possible (though, V confi-
dently reckon on anew coasting lawin the course of the nextses-
sion), I have thought it ineumbent upon me to bring the affair
to an issue.

Circumstanced as it was amidst a diversity of legal opinions,
it seemed to be the proper course to consult the Attorney Gene-
ral, who,' by law, is the adviser of heads of departments, as to
questions of law.

This has been done, and the event is, that his opinion differs
from that which was originally adopted and communicated by
me. A copy of his answer to the questions put to him is here-
with transmitted.

In this state of the matter which so directly concerns the in-
terests of the officers, I think it proper to rescind the instruction
heretofore given; though my own view of the subject remains
unchanged. Each officer will then pursue that course which
appears to him conformable to law, to his own interest and
safety, and to the good of the service.

1 laving said that my view of the subject remains unchanged,
I think fit to specify, more particularly than 1 have yet done, the
reasons which govern it.

1. It is conceived to be an important general rule (where no
principle of public policy calls for a free interpretation), that the
subject shall not be taxed or burthened by construction. This
rule I think will be violated, if the sixty cents is made a ■ rend
compensation for several services, because the coupling of the
two objects, which are supposed to be distinct services, by the
word "and," and the naming of the compensation but once, at
the end of the sentence, does, according to the most obvious,
literal and grammatical construction, connect the two objects
into one service entitled to one compensation. The particle
"for" does not in my opinion weaken this conclusion, as it is in
such cases a mere expletive, used or not according to the ear of
the writer. The rule which has been mentioned is particularly
necessary to be attended to, in regard to fees of Office, since the

564 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

experience of all countries has shown, that latitude in this parti-
cular is liable to much abuse, to the great vexation and oppres-
sion of the citizen.

2. Though it is true that the words "and" and "or" are
sometimes considered as synonymous in legal constructions ; yet
it is generally to answer some purpose which the law favors, as
the giving effect to some general maxim of law, some general
rule of property, some general principle of public policy, &c.

The constructive extension of fees of Office, is presumed to
be of this nature. The very act upon which the present question
arises appears anxious to guard against the danger of abuse from
this quarter, by annexing penalties to the demanding of any
other or greater fees than are allowed. If there had been no
case in which the two items concurred as parts of one entire
service, it would have been a good reason for considering them as
distinct, though with some violence to literal construction ; but
as they do so unite in certain cases, it is a strong argument
against the separation contended for.

3. It appears to have been the intention of the Legislature to
make a separate enumeration of the same or exactly similar
services, annexing to each a separate compensation ; and avoid-
ing the conjunction of dissimilar services, though attended with
equal compensations, as in the instances of permits to land goods
of foreign growth or manufacture, and bonds ; for each of which
services twenty cents are allowed. The idea of greater affinity
between the services in question as a reason for their union, is
not founded. In the cases in which they are really distinct, they
are as dissimilar as any two operations can be. The circum-
stance alluded to, is said to be a slight one. Alone, it is con-
fessed it would have no very decisive weight, though it would
not be to be disregarded ; yet it is of a nature to fortify other
considerations.

4. An entry and the receiving of and qualifying to a manifest
in all cases under the 27th section, are essentially one and the
same act; to construe them as several in these cases, would be to
multiply one act and one service into two acts and two services ;
and yet it is not perceived, if a several compensation is under-

.Et.35.] revenue circulars. 565

stood to be annexed to them, as several services, how it should
not apply when they are performed by one person, as well as
when they are performed by two persons.

' • 5. The association of an entry with the receiving of and quali-
fying to manifests in cases arising under the 27th section, is a
natural one ; the two things being coupled, or rather the one
thing constituting the other ; but the association of the latter, in
cases arising under the 25th and 26th sections, where outward
bound vessels are contemplated, with the entries of inward
bound vessels, would be unnatural and incongruous. The entry
being the primary and leading idea, the receiving of and qualify-
ing to the manifest, as incidents to it, are naturally mentioned in
the same clause ; but not so if they refer to a substantive and
independent service, having a different object, and preceding the
entry in the order of the transaction.

It has been objected, that it would have been tautology to
have mentioned the receiving of and qualifying to manifests, if
they did not mean something distinct from the entry under the
27th section, of which they form a part. But there are other
entries, those under the 28th section, with which they do not
coincide, and the supposition is, that they were meant to describe
the entries under the 27th section, and that a compensation for
those under the 28th, has been through mistake omitted.

6. The construction which makes the services and the com-
pensation several, will operate in many instances oppressively to
the citizens engaged in the business. If a vessel takes on board
foreign goods of no greater value than 200 dollars, or 400 gallons
of ardents spirits, in one district, and delivers them in another,
even in an adjoining one, she will have to pay:

Cents.
For receiving and qualifying to her manifest, in the

district from which she departs, - > - - 60
For a permit to proceed to the place of destination, 25
For receiving her entry at the port of delivery, - 60
For a permit to land, 20

Making altogether, 165

566 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

Again, if a vessel takes on board a single barrel of flour in
one district, to be delivered in another, even an adjoining one,
where there is a collector or surveyor, she will have to pay :

Cents.

For receiving her entry at the port of delivery, 60

For receiving and qualifying to her manifest at the
same port, -------- 60

Making together, 120

In both cases considerably more than the freight of the arti-
cles may amount to, and more than it is conceived would be a
due compensation for the services rendered, and a reasonable
burthen on the Hade.

An idea indeed has been entertained that, though the service
be several, and entitled to a distinct compensation, it is not so in
regard to cases of the last mentioned kind, because the receiving
of and qualifying to manifests is there involved in the entry.
But this, it is conceived, would be a departure from consistency
of construction. If a particular compensation is annexed to a
particular service' as such, and in the abstract, it follows the ser.
vice, and attaches itself to it, whether performed by the same, or
by different persons, whether separately or in connection with
another service, especially if the law designates the latter service
as contradistinguished from the former. It is to be remembered,
too, that the entry always carries with it the receiving of a mani-
fest, though not always the qualifying to it.

It has been said that, whether the compensation would be
exeessive or not, is a question merely for the Legislature. But
certainly a presumption of the intention of the Legislature not to
burthen trade, is a circumstance which ought to serve as a
guide in the construction of provisions, which it must be confessed
are not free from ambiguity. And this presumption, in the pre-
sent case, is suggested by the general policy of the coasting act,
which evidently aims at privileging and protecting the coasting
trade.

I shall now take notice of some of the arguments which have

jEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 567

been used for a construction opposite to that which I adopt, and
which have not been already adverted to.

1. It has been observed, that it is customary for the fees of
entry and clearance to be equal ; that this is so by the collection
law of the United States ; and that it is probable the Legislature
intended to preserve the same equality in the coasting act.

But this equality would not attend the construction for which
it is made an argument.

The true clearance in the coasting act is the permit to depart ;
and for that the fee is expressly twenty -five cents. The entry-
fee would be, in every case, sixty cents ; in cases under the 27th
section, if uniformity of principle be preserved, it would be 120
cents. If the receiving and qualifying to the manifest are taken
in connection with the clearance, then the expense of a clearance
would be 85 cents; that of an entry, in some instances 60, in
others 120 ; for, by no mode of reasoning, can the fee for the per-
mit to depart, which is the real clearance, be excluded from the
comparison.

2. It is objected to my construction, that greater services
relating to foreign goods are less compensated than lesser services
relating to domestic commodities; which cannot reasonably be
presumed to have been the intention of the Legislature.

This is true, and it constitutes an objection of weight, but not
a conclusive one. It is not a very uncommon ease for the law to
be defective in provisions necessary to fulfil the intention of the
framers of it; and where the main design of the law would not be
fulfilled without supplying, by construction, the deficiency of
provision, great latitude ought to be taken. But this is not so
as to mere collateral points, no way essential to the principal
objects of the law. These omissions may easily be supposed and
admitted, and they ought not to be supplied either by any vio-
lence to the literal expression, or at the price of more important
inconveniences. Where the question is between individual ad-
vantage and public mischief, as by forming a precedent liable to
abuse, or by throwing an undue burthen on a branch of industry,
no latitude of construction ought to be indulged to attain the
former.

568 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

It is certain that the act in question is very inaccurately
drawn, and in many particulars unprovisional, which is the rea-
son for admitting it to be so in the particular under consideration.

'Tis not the only instance in which entire classes of services
are omitted to be compensated. In this predicament are licenses
for vessels under twenty tons, the endorsing upon registers, &c.,
memorandums of changes of masters, and giving notice of them,
the administering of oaths generally, and even where they con-
stitute distinct Bervices, as where the collector of one district
takes the oath of an owner, in order to the registering of a vessel
in another district, which is also attended with the additional
service of a transmission to the last-mentioned collector, per-
mits to land goods not of foreign growth and manufacture.

Hence the idea of finding a compensation for each service, is
a delusive ground of argument, and that of a proportional com-
pensation is not less so. It belongs, indeed, to neither construc-
tion. It has been already seen that an entry, attended with the
only additional circumstance of swearing the master of a vessel
to his manifest, would carry double the compensation of an entry
without that circumstance.

3. It has been remarked, as repelling the inference to be
drawn from omissions in other cases, that in this the service has
been mentioned by the Legislature, and of equal respectability
with an entry, and that, therefore, it ought not to be denied a
compensation.

In what light it may be conceived to have been mentioned,
has been stated as incident to the entry in certain cases des-
criptive of it. But it will not follow that when circumstances,
which are incidents in particular cases, are mentioned in imme-
diate connection with the main object, that the specification is
intended to extend to other cases in which they are incidents to
a different service, namely, the a rtifying of a duplicate manifest,
and the permit to depart, or the clearance.

Three circumstances operate in this view of the subject,
against the supposition, that the receiving of, and qualifying
to, manifests were intended to be remunerated as independent
services.

jEt. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 569

They are in no case such. They are either prerequisites to
the certificate and permit, directed by the twenty-fifth and twenty-
sixth sections, which are the principal services there, or concom-
itants of the entry, directed by the twenty-seventh section.

2. If the specification was intended to refer specially to cases
under the twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth sections, as has been
alleged, the expression would naturally have been "for receiving,
qualifying to, and certifying, every manifest."

3. The receiving and qualifying to manifests, are constantly
incidents to entries and clearances under the collection law ; and
yet they have no distinct remuneration as such. The qualifying
to any document is, in none of the revenue laws, a subject of
particular compensation, and yet, as the certificate is not men-
tioned, and as the permit to depart has a distinct fee, there seems
to be no other act left to which the fee of sixty cents is to attach
itself. Is it probable that the legislature intended so consider-
able a recompense for a service in this case, which in every
other, they have omitted to reward? Certainly, at least, the
argument which asserts that those services would not be in-
tended to be performed for nothing, fails. If they are rewarded
under the collection law, in the fee for a clearance, so may they
equally be conceived to be rewarded under the coasting act, in
the fee for the permit to depart, which is there the clearance also.
This fee cannot even be said to be inadequate to the whole service)
in that case to be performed, the parts of which are the adminis-
tering an oath, the certifying upon the manifest, which is sup-
posed to be produced by the party, " that it had been sworn (or
affirmed) to, and delivered according to law," and the granting
a permit to depart. Some stress has been laid upon the word
every. I take this to be, as here used, merely calculated to de.
note the singular number, and to operate distributively only, as
the plural word "vessels," which follows.

I shall barely add, for greater caution, that the instruction
which is meant to be rescinded, is merely that which relates to
the meaning of the following clause: "For every entry of in-
ward cargo, directed to be made in conformity with this act, and

c 37

570 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

for receiving of, and qualifying to, every manifest of vessels
licensed to trade as aforesaid."

"With much consideration,

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. I should think it a better and more equitable construc-
tion of the act than that which considers the two things as
several, to reject, as mere surplusage, the words "and for re-
ceiving of, and qualifying to, every manifest of vessels licensed
to trade;" annexing no fee to it, in amj case; but leaving the
entry in every case, as well on the twenty-eighth and twenty-
seventh sections, to be entitled to a fee of sixty cents.

Treasury Department, August 27. 17 -

Sir:

It would be useful, in regard to the return of exports, which
is transmitted quarterly to this office by the collector, if the
exported articles were uniformly arranged in alphabetic order.

With a view to this, I inclose you a form of such an alpha-
betical arrangement, and request that, for the future, you will
have the article of exports inserted in the said return agreeably
to that form, expressing the different quantities of each article
as therein prescribed. In ail respects the form of the return of
exports will remain as heretofore.

I have to desire that you will furnish me with a monthly
abstract of all licenses which shall be granted to coasting and
fishing vessels in your district, to be forwarded after the expira-
tion of every month. The annexed form will show the parti-
culars to be inserted. It is, of course, not required that copies
or duplicates of licenses should be transmitted to the treasury,
as has been done in some instances.

A difference of opinion between the Collectors and Super-
visors has occurred in regard to the seventh section of the act
concerning the duties on spirits distilled within the United

^Et. 35.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 571

States, &c. The true construction is, that the abatement of two
per cent, for leakage is to be made on securing the duty at the
end of every quarter, from the whole quantity distilled during
the preceding three months. And hence, it will be necess;irv
that, in cases of exportation, the drawbacks on distilled spirits
be adjusted with an eye to the allowance.

A doubt has arisen on the 35th, or more properly, on the
36th section of the collection law ; whether molasses is to be
construed within the meaning of that section. I am of opinion
it is; and that the allowance of two per cent, for leakage
ought to be extended to that article.

I am, Sir,

A. Hamilton.

Treasury Department, October 25, 1792.

Sir:

Pursuant to the discretion vested in me by the sixth section
of the act entitled, " An act making alterations in the Treasury
and War Departments," I have concluded to transmit the im-
mediate superintendence of the collection of duties of impost and
tonnage to the Comptroller of the Treasury.

You will, therefore, henceforth, correspond with that oilicer,
relatively to all matters arising out of tin; laws, which respect
the laying or collecting of those duties, and will consider his
communications and instructions, in regard to such matters, as
of the same force and validity which they would have if coming
from me.

This, however, is not to be understood to comprehend the
disposition and payment of the moneys accruiug from those
duties which, as heretofore, "will be under my immediate direc-
tion.

Accordingly, all the returns and documents which you have
been accustomed to transmit to the Secretary of the Treasury,
are hereafter to be transmitted to the Comptroller, except the
following :
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[iET. 36.

1st. "Weekly returns of moneys received and paid.

2d. Monthly schedule of bonds.

3d. Monthly abstract of bonds unpaid.

4th. Paid drafts and receipts for moneys paid to banks and
otherwise under special direction from me.

I expect to be furnished, as early as possible, with an esti-
mate from the best materials that can be furnished, of what is
likely to be the amount of the bounties payable within each dis-
trict, on fishing vessels, where they exist, pursuant to the act
entitled, " An act concerning certain fisheries of the United
States, and for the regulation and government of the fishermen
employed therein ;" and to be informed, at the same time, how
far the moneys likely to be in hand by the period of payment,
which is the last of December, will suffice for or fall short of
the sum necessary.

Those collectors who shall have any of the before-mentioned
bounties to pay, and who have instructions to make their remit-
tances to any of the banks, are herewith authorized to retain in
their hands out of the moneys which they have and shall re-
ceive, a sum sufficient to answer the purpose.

I am, Sir, etc.,

Alex. Hamilton.

Treasury Department, March 29, 1793.

Sir:

A question has been made, What is to be the voucher to a
Collector for entering anew a vessel which has been altered in
form only, the 6th section ©f the act concerning the registering
and recording of ships and vessels having made provisions only
for the case of an alteration in burthen ?

I answer, that the form of a certificate of registry, prescribed
by the 9th section of that act, supposes a certificate from the
Surveyor, or person acting in his stead, for the special occasion,
in every instance, except merely that of a transfer of property,

JEt. 36.] REVENUE CIRCULARS. 573

when provision is made for referring to the former certificate of
registry, as a substitute.

It follows, then, that in the case of an alteration in form as-
well as burthen, such a certificate is necessary as an official de-
scription of the vessel and a voucher for registry.

The only difference will be, then, when altered in burthen, a
vessel must be actually measured anew, to ascertain her tonnage.
When only altered in form, so as not to affect her burthen, then
the tonnage may be certified from her old register, and in the
first place a fee for admeasurement will be due ; in the last, none.
An arrangement which will conduce to the mutual convenience
of the officers of the Customs and of the Treasury.

I am to request, that all communications which may be re-
quisite, after the receipt of this letter, relating to matters arising
under either of the two acts, the one entitled, " An act concern-
ing the registering and recording of ships or vessels ;" the other
entitled, " An act for enrolling and licensing ships or vessels
to be employed in the coasting trade and fisheries, and for
regulating the same;" may be addressed to the Comptroller of
the Treasury ; and the instructions which shall be transmitted
by him in relation to those laws, may be considered of the same
force as if proceeding directly from the head of the department.
It is, however, not intended by this, to prevent an immediate
recourse to the Secretary of the Treasury in any special case or
circumstance, which may be thought to render it necessary.

All documents directed by either of these acts to be trans-
mitted to the Treasury, are to be forwarded immediately to the
Register of the Treasury.

It appears that some of the collectors have put a construction
on my circular letter of the 2d of January, 1792, which pre-
cludes the cash notes and post notes of the branch banks or
offices of discount from being received for duties and exchanged
for specie. This is contrary to the design of that instruction.
These notes being in fact notes of the Bank of the United States,
signed by their President and Cashier ; and having the same
leading marks for distinguishing counterfeits from the genuine,

574 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

as have been already communicated to yon, are to be received and
exchanged in like manner as heretofore directed.

I am, Sir, your obd't serv't,

A. Hamilton.

INSTRUCTIONS TO THE COLLECTORS OF THE

CUSTOMS.

.Philadelphia, August 4, 1793.

Sir:

It appearing that repeated contraventions of our neutrality
have taken place in the ports of the United States, without hav-
ing been discovered in time for prevention or remedy, I have it
in command from the President, to address to the collectors of
the respective districts a particular instruction on the subject.

It is expected that the officers of the customs in each district
will, in the course of their official functions, have a vigilant eye
upon whatever may be passing within the ports, creeks, inlets
and waters of such district, of a nature to contravene the laws
of neutrality, and upon discovery of any thing of the kind, will
give immediate notice to the Governor of the State, and to the
attorney of the judicial district, comprehending the district of the
customs within which any such contravention may happen.

To assist the judgment of the officers on this head, I transmit
herewith a schedule of rules, concerning sundry particulars
which have been adopted by the President, as deductions from
the laws of neutrality, established and received among nations.
Whatever shall be contrary to these rules will, of course, be to
be notified as above-mentioned.

There are some other points which, pursuant to our treaties,
and the determination of the Executive, I ought to notice to
you.

If any vessel of either of the Powers at war with France
should bring or send within your district a prize, made of the
subjects, people or property of France, it is immediately to be

^Et. 36.] INSTRUCTIONS TO COLLECTORS. 575

notified to the Governor of the State, in order that measures
may be taken, pursuant to the 17th article of our treaty with
France, to oblige such vessel and her prize, or such prize, when
sent in without the capturing vessel, to depart.

No Privateer of any of the Powers at war with France, com-
ing within a district of the United States, can, by the 22d article
of our treaty with France, enjoy any other privilege than that
of purchasing such victuals as shall be necessary for her {/"lug to the
next port of the Prince or State from which she has her commission.
If she should do any thing beside this, it is immediately to be
reported to the Governor and the Attorney of the district. You
will observe by the rules transmitted, that the term privateer is
understood not to extend to vessels armed for merchandise and
war, commonly called with us letters of marque, nor, of course, to
vessels of war in the immediate service of the Government of
either o*he Powers at war.

No armed vessel which has been or shall be originally fitted
out in any port of the United States by either of the parties at
war, is henceforth to have asylum in any district of the United
States. If any such armed vessel shall appear within your
district, she is immediately to be notified to the Governor and
Attorney of the district, which is also to be done in respect to
any prize that such armed vessel shall bring or send in. At foot
is a list of such armed vessels of the above description, as have
hitherto come to the knowledge of the Executive.

The purchasing within and exporting from the United States,
by way of merchandise, articles commonly called contraband, being
generally warlike instruments and military stores, is free to all
the parties at war, and is not to be interfered with. If our own
citizens undertake to carry them to any of those parties, they
will be abandoned to the penalties which the laws of war author
ize. You will be particularly careful to observe and to notify,
as directed in other instances, the case of any citizen of the
United States, who shall be found in the service of either of the
parties at war.

In case any vessel shall be found in the act of contravening
any of the rules or principles which are the ground of this

576 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

instruction, she is to be refused a clearance until she shnll have
complied with what the Governor shall have decided in reference
to her. Care, however, is to be taken in this, not unnecessarily
or unreasonably, to embarrass trade or to vex any of the parties
concerned.

In order that contraventions may be the better ascertained, it
is desired that the officer who shall first go on board any vessel
arriving within your district, shall make an accurate survey of
her then condition as to military equipment, to be forthwith
reported to you ; and that, prior to her clearance, a like survey
be made, that any transgression of the rules laid down may be
ascertained.

But as the propriety of any such inspection of a vessel of war
in the immediate service of the Government of a foreign nation, is
not without question in reference to the usage of nations, no
attempt is to be made to inspect any such vessel, till furmcr order
on the point.

The President desires me to signify to you his most particular
expectation, that the instructions contained in this letter will be
executed with the greatest vigilance, care, activity and impar-
tiality. Omissions will tend to expose the Government: to
injurious imputations and suspicions, and proportion ably to
commit the good faith and peace of the country — objects of too
much importance, not to engage every proper exertion of your
zeal.

With consideration, I am, Sir, &c,
Alexander Hamilton.

1. The original arming and equipping of vessels in the ports
of the United States, by any of the belligerent parties, for
military service, offensive or defensive, is deemed unlawful.

2. Equipments of merchant vessels, by either of the bellige-
rent parties, in the ports of the United States, purely for the
accommodation of them as such, is deemed lawful.

3. Equipments in the ports of the United States, of vessels
of war in the immediate service of the Government of any of
the belligerent parties, which, if done to other vessels, would be

jEt.36.]. INSTRUCTIONS TO COLLECTORS. 577

of a doubtful nature, as being applicable either to commerce or
war, are deemed lawful, except those which shall have made
prize of the subjects, people, or property of France, coming
with their prizes into the ports of the United States, pursuant
to the 17th article of our treaty of amity and commerce with
France.

4. Equipments in the ports of the United States, by any of
the parties at war with France, of vessels fitted for merchandise
and war, whether with or without commissions, which are
doubtful in their nature, as being applicable either to commerce
or war, are deemed lawful, except those which shall have made
prize, &c.

5. Equipments of any of the vessels of France, in the ports
of the United States, which are doubtful in their nature, as being
applicable to commerce or war, are deemed lawful.

6. Equipments of every kind, in the ports of the United
States, of privateers of the powers at war with France, are
deemed unlawful.

7. Equipments of vessels in the ports of the United States,
which are of a nature solely adapted to war, are deemed unlaw-
ful, except those stranded or wrecked, as mentioned in the 18th
article of our treaty with France, the 16th of our treaty with the
United Netherlands, the 9th of our treaty with Prussia, and,
except those mentioned in the 19th article of our treaty with
France, the 17th of our treaty with the United Netherlands, the
18th of our treaty with Prussia.

8. Vessels of either of the parties, not armed, or armed
previous to their coming into the ports of the United States,
which shall not have infringed any of the foregoing rules, may
lawfully engage or enlist therein their own subjects or citizens,
not being inhabitants of the United States ; except privateers of
the Powers at war with France, and except those vessels which
shall have made prize, &c.

578 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 33.

INTEREST ON CLAIMS.
Communicated to the House of Representatives, March 19th, 1790.

Treasury Department, March 18th, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury, on the memorial of the late
officers of the South Carolina line, on continental establish-
ment, respectfully reports :

That it is true, as suggested in substance in the said memorial,
that Gongress, in consideration of payments in specie which had
been made to other parts of the army, did recommend to the
State of South Carolina to pay to the officers of its line a sum
equal to six mouths' pay ; which recommendation is contained in
a resolution of the 10th of October, 1786, in the words following :
R "'/, That it be, and it is hereby, recommended to the State
of South Carolina to pay to the officers of their late line and
hospital department, the said sum of $10,276 £f, mentioned to
be due to them by the said report, the said sum to be paid to the
said officers, agreeably to a return of the late Paymaster-General,
and for which the said State shall have credit on the specie
proportion of the last requisition.

That warrants or drafts on the commissioner of loans for
the said State, payable to the bearer, were accordingly issued by
the late Board of Treasury to the respective officers for the sums
to them severally due in conformity to the said resolution : which
drafts, for want of money in the hands of the commissioner,
were not paid.

That arrangements were afterwards taken by the said Board
towards the payment of those drafts, if retained, and con-
quently no further provision is now necessary, except with regard
to the claim of interest.

That the claim of interest may have reference to the time
preceding the issuing of the drafts, and the time subsequent
to it. That, with respect to the first period, had the accounts of
the said officers been adjusted in the ordinary mode, and cer-
tificates granted, they would have borne interest from the time

Mt.33.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 579

the pay became due ; but Congress, in directing the payment of
the principal only, as was the case by the resolution recited,
appear to have decided against the allowance of that which had
previously accrued. That, with respect to the period subsequent
to the issuing of the drafts, it would be contrary to the
practice of the Treasury to allow interest, which has not been
usual upon warrants or drafts issued for payment of moneys
due.

That an innovation upon a practice, which has governed in
a great extent and variety of cases, would of course be produc-
tive of much inconvenience and embarrassment, and, in many
instances, would have an improper operation, as the negotiations
of such drafts between individuals have been without a view
to interest.

That similar drafts, excluding interest, were issued to the
lines of Yirginia and North Carolina, and though attended with
a delay of payment, were afterwards taken up, without allow-
ance of interest ; as is also daily the case in respect to warrants
issued by the late Board of Treasury, for which an appropriation
was made during the last session.

That, from the foregoing facts and considerations, the Secre-
tary is of opinion, that the claim of the memorialists to interest
ought not to be admitted. The past situation of public affairs
has unavoidably given too much occasion for complaints of indi-
vidual hardship; but, in most instances, they are rather to be
regretted than redressed. Confusion would ensue from a depart-
ure from former decisions and established usages, where the cases
are not very peculiar, and very clearly distinguishable as such.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the 'Treasury.

580 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M-r. 33.

Treasury Department, April 12th, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury, on the memorial of James
Warren, to him referred by an order of the House of Kepre-
sentatives of the 3d instant, respectfully reports :

That it appears, upon examination of the case of the memo-
rialist, that in the years 1777 and 1778 several cargoes of mer-
chandise, which had been imported for the use of the United
States, were consigned to his care; and that, in the settlement
of his accounts concerning those cargoes by the Commercial
Committee, he was allowed only the nominal amount of his ex-
penditures and commissions.

That this settlement took place on the 28th November, 1780
(at which time there was no authority to make an allowance for
depreciation); and that, on the 31st January, 1781, a warrant
was drawn by the President of Congress on the Treasurer of the
State of Massachusetts for $32,553 tv, being the liquidated bal-
ance of the memorialist's account.

That the said warrant was, some time in the year 1782, dis-
charged in specie by the State of Massachusetts, at the rate of
one dollar for seventy-five of the sum expressed upon the face
of it.

That the claim of the memorialist is, first, for an allowance
of depreciation on the items of the account settled by the Com-
mercial Committee (alleging, as a peculiarity in his case, that the
settlement was made by an agent, not by himself, and that there
was a demand for depreciation at the time, though not admitted
for want of authority).

Secondly, for the difference between the established rate of
old emission money, when the warrant was issued to him, and
that at which it was discharged in specie, which he computes to
amount to £115.19.6, lawful money of Massachusetts.

In relation to which facts and circumstances the Secretary
begs leave to observe, that it is an important general rule, that
regular settlements, in the established course, involving general
principles, should remain untouched. That this rule, in refer-

Mt. 33.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 581

ence to transactions during the late war, derives peculiar force
from the then peculiar situation of public affairs. That in no
respect is its observance more necessary than in whatever regards
questions of depreciation. That every precedent of an admission
of a claim upon that ground, beyond the limits now observed at
the Treasury, must be more or less dangerous. That, in parti-
cular, it seems necessary to adhere to this as a principle, that
when an account has been adjusted and a balance discharged, no
claim for depreciation ought afterwards to be admitted.

That the circumstance of the settlement having been made
by an agent is no uncommon one. Nor does the demand stated to
have been made at the time for an allowance for depreciation ap-
pear to the Secretary of any material weight. It is naturally to be
presumed, that the interest of applicants must have rendered
such demands frequent, and the completion of the settlement
without it shows that it was not persisted in.

The Secretary, however, thinks it incumbent on him to
state to the House that, as far as regards the mode of pay-
ment, there is something distinguishable in the case, lie does
not find, on inquiry, that it can have had place in many instances
in the precise form ; nevertheless, the degree of force which this
circumstance may be supposed to have, is overruled, in his
judgment, by the danger of a precedent for a new species of
claim for depreciation. The allowance of it, too, on this ground,
would seem to involve this principle; that for depreciation which
may have accrued between the time an order for payment may
have been given and the time of actual payment, compensation
is to be made — a principle which, it is to be apprehended, might
have extensive consequences.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

582 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

EENEWAL OF LOST CERTIFICATES.
Communicated to the House of Representatives, April 21, 1792.

Treasury Department, April 18, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury, to whom were referred by the

House of Representatives the several petitions specified in

the list herewith, praying the renewal of certain certificates,

which are alleged to have been destroyed or lost, respectfully

' makes the following report thereupon :

The said Secretary, in a report heretofore made to the House
of Representatives on a petition of Jacob rRush (a copy of which
is annexed), has stated his opinion concerning the propriety of
renewing certificates which have been destroyed or lost, and con-
cerning the precautions which ought to accompany relief in cases
in which it may be deemed proper to grant it.

The paper B contains an abstract of the several petitions
specified in the list, and of the proof, where any is produced,
which accompanies them, with brief observations on the respec-
tive cases.

It however merits consideration, whether any certificate ought
to be renewed until the course of the public operations shall have
called in all the old ones which are still outstanding, and until
an arrangement now in execution at the Treasury, whereby it will
be easy to ascertain what certificates have been taken in and
cancelled from the earliest period, shall have been completed.

It can rarely happen that the proof adduced is more than
strongly circumstantial ; and the cases numbered 18 and 23, in
which certificates, sworn to have been destroyed, have been pre-
sented or taken up at the Treasury, serve to evince the necessity
of peculiar circumspection.

The renewal of any kind of paper, which is negotiable to
bearer, is, in the nature of the thing, liable to considerable
danger, and it is to be doubted whether it may be conformable
to usage in similar cases. It is, therefore, though equitable, dis-

JEt. 33.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 583

cretionarj on the part of the Government, and it is reasonable
that the doing of it should be accompanied with every precaution
necessary for the public safety.

The taking of security to indemnify the Government from
future claims is a safeguard ; but, for obvious reasons, it can
never be considered as one which can altogether be relied upon.
All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

Treasury Department, August 5th, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury, having considered the petition of
Jacob Eush, referred to him on the 29th day of June last,
respectfully reports :

That the reasons which induced the last Congress of the
United States to grant a renewal of continental loan-office certi-
ficates, destroyed through accident, appear of equal weight in
regard to other evidences of the public debt which have been
the subjects of similar casualty.

That justice to the petitioner, therefore, seems to require that
an opportunity of renewing his certificates be granted him ; and
as there are several applications of the same nature, it is respect-
fully suggested that it will be expedient to provide, by law, for
administering relief to all who shall be found similarly* circum-
stanced, under the following cautionary regulations, which are,
in most particulars, the same .as those provided in the case of
loan-office certificates, so far as they will apply to the different
circumstances of the certificates.

That the certificates renewed be issued to those who shall
appear to have been the holders of them at the time they were
destroyed, or, if dead, to their legal representatives.

That the certificates destroyed be advertised in the news-
papers of the State where the accident happened, and in the
State where they were issued ; which advertisement shall be con-

584 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

tinued six weeks, and shall contain the numbers, dates, sums,
names in which the certificates were taken out, and the time when,
the place where, and the means by which, they were destroyed ;
that a copy of the advertisement be lodged in the office of the
commissioner of loans within the State in which the certificates
alleged to have been destroyed were issued, together with such
testimony as can be procured, ascertaining the time when, the
place where, and the means by which, the destruction happened;
which copies and testimonies shall be duly certified by the said
commissioner, to be laid, by the party claiming the renewal,
before the Comptroller of the Treasury, who shall finally decide
on the sufficiency thereof.

That the party claiming the renewal enter into a bond to the
United States, with two or more sufficient freeholders as sureties
(the sufficiency to be judged of by the said Comptroller), in
double the amount of the value of the certificates claimed to be
renewed, with condition to indemnify the United States against
the holders of the certificates said to be destroyed, should any
such afterwards appear.

That no certificate be renewed before the expiration of three
months after the publication of the advertisement above men-
tioned ; and that there be an endorsement on each renewed cer-
tificate, signifying that the same was issued in lieu of one de-
stroyed by accident, and describing the original.

In regard to certificates which have not been destroyed by
accident, but which have either been lost or captured, or other-
wise taken away, it appears extremely difficult to devise any
mode of relief to the sufferers which will not subject the United
States to so much hazard of imposition and injury as to render
the expediency of it questionable. If the House should never-
theless be of opinion that justice requires it, it may be granted
under the same regulations which are proposed in respect to cer-
tificates destroyed.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alex. Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

Mt. 35.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 585

CLAIMS FOR DEPRECIATION, PROPERTY USED, DAMAGED OR DE-
STROYED BY THE ARMY, AND FOR INTEREST ON ADVANCES
FOR THE USE OF AMERICAN PRISONERS AT QUEBEC.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, November 22, 1792.

Treasury Department, November, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury, to whom were referred the several
petitions specified in the list herewith transmitted, respectfully
submits the following report thereupon :

These petitions seek indemnifications upon various sums of
paper money received from the public during the late war, by
the respective petitioners, on account of claims arising upon
transactions of that period.

There is no subject upon which the special interposition
of the Legislature for relief of particular individuals, can be
more delicate and dangerous, than that of depreciations ; the
infinite multitude of cases, in which claims of this nature might,
with equal, or nearly equal, degrees of equity, be supported;
the impossibility, from the extraordinary circumstances of the
times when those claims originated, of doing general justice, the
inextricable confusion and incalculable expense of an attempt to
redress all the grievances and hardships of that kind, which
unavoidably took place, afford considerations of the most power-
ful nature for leaving every question of depreciation, where the
rules and principles of settlement at the Treasury have left it.

If the claim of either of the petitioners is within those 'iSdlos,
and not barred by the acts of limitation, no interposition of the
Legislature is necessary. If not within those rules, and barred
by the acts of limitation, such an interposition would, in point
of precedent, be of the most inconvenient tendency. The magni-
tude and extreme delicacy of the matter in question, appear to
render it advisable to adhere to the acts of limitation, as well as
the rules of settlement at the Treasury, in this particular, with
peculiar caution and strictness.

c 38

•586 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 37.

Such was the policy of the United States in Congress assem-
bled, and a perseverance in that policy is recommended by a
variety of weighty reasons.

The Secretary understands that no allowance of depreciation,
in either of the cases mentioned in the petitions, would be con-
trary to the rules and principles which have governed in public
settlements.

All which is humbly submitted,

Alex. Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

COMPOSITION WITH A DEBTOR.
Communicated to the House of Representatives, January 14th, 1794.

Treasury Department, January 14th, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasmy, to whom was referred by the
House of Eepresentatives, the memorial of Daniel Parker,
respectfully makes thereupon the following report :

The suggestions contained in the memorial do not appear to
be of a nature to call for a re-adjustment of the account. The
probability of peace within the year was an event to have been
calculated upon on both sides, in forming the original contract :
the loss of vouchers is the misfortune of the party, of a nature
to be equally an obstacle in a new, as in the former settlement.
But there are circumstances which may render it the interest of
the United States to compound the debt. It is understood that
all the debtors have been in a state of insolvency. It is now not
certainly known what is the condition of the memorialist. This
may demand further inquiry.

In the mean time, if it should appear to Congress advisable
to vest somewhere a power to make a composition of the debt,

Mt. 37.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 587

it would probably be conducive to the interest of the United
States.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alex. Hamlilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

COMMENT ON THE REFERENCE OF PRIVATE CLAIMS TO THE
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY BY CONGRESS.

Communicated to the Senate, February 26, 1794.

Treasury Department, February 22, 1794.

Sir:

I have received a late order of the Senate on the subject of a
petition of Arther Hughes. Diligent search has been made for
such a petition, and it has not been found ; neither have I now
a distinct recollection of ever having seen it. Whether, therefore,
it may not have originally failed in the transmission to me, or
may have become mislaid by a temporary displacement of the
papers of my immediate office, occasioned by a fire which con-
sumed a part of the building in the use of the Treasury, or by
some of those accidents which, in an extensive scene of business,
will sometimes attend papers, especially those of inferior impor-
ta nee, is equally open to conjecture. There is no record in the
office of its having been received, nor do any of my clerks re-
member to have seen it.

A search in the Auditor's office has brought up the inclosed
paper,* which it is presumed relates to the object of the petition ;
but this paper, it will appear from the memorandum accompa-
nying it, was placed in that office prior to the reference of the
petition.

The Auditor of the Treasury is of opinion, though his recol-
lection is not positive, that the claim had relation to the services

* Not now to be fouud.

588 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 87.

of John Hughes, as forage-master. Two objections opposed its
admission. 1st. The not being presented in time. 2d. The
name of John Hughes, in the capacity in which he claimed, not
appearing upon any return in the Treasury.

If these be the circumstances, I should be of opinion that it
would not be advisable, by a special legislative interposition, to
except the case out of the operation of the acts of limitation.

The second order of the Senate, on the subject of this peti.
tion, leads to the following reflections :

Does this hitherto unusual proceeding (in a case of no public
and no peculiar private importance), imply a supposition that
there has been undue delay or negligence on the part of the Sec-
retary of the Treasury ?

If it does, the supposition is unmerited, not merely from the
circumstances of the paper, which have been stated, but from the
known situation of the officer.

The occupations necessarily and permanently incident to the
office are at least sufficient fully to occupy the time and faculties
of one man. The burthen is seriously increased by the numerous
private cases, remnants of the late war, which, every session, are
objects of particular reference by the two Houses of Congress.
These accumulated occupations, again, have been interrupted in
their due course by unexpected, desultory, and distressing calls
for long and complicated statements, sometimes with a view
to general information, sometimes for the explanation of points,
which certain leading facts, witnessed by the provision of the
laws, and by information previously communicated, might have
explained without those statements, or which were of a nature
that did not seem to have demanded a laborious, critical, and
suspicious investigation, unless the officer was understood to have
forfeited his title to a reasonable and common degree of confi-
dence. Added to these things, it is known that the affairs of the
country, in its external relations, have, for some time past, been
so circumstanced, as unavoidably to have thrown additional avo-
cations on all the branches of the Executive Department^ and
that a late peculiar calamity in the city of Philadelphia has had

^t. 37.] REPORTS ON CLAIMS. 589

consequences that cannot have failed to derange, more or less,
the course of public business.

In such a situation, was it not the duty of the officer to post-
pone matters of mere individual concern to objects of public and
general concern, to the preservation of the essential order of the
department committed to his care? Or, is it extraordinary, that,
in relation to cases of the first description, there should luvebeen
a considerable degree of procrastination ? Might not an officer,
who is conscious that public observation and opinion, whatever
deficiencies they may impute to him, will not rank among them
want of attention or industry, have hoped to escape censure,
express or implied, on that score ?

I will only add, that the consciousness of devoting myself to
the public service to the utmost extent of my faculties, and to the
injury of my health,- is a tranquillizing consolation, of which I
cannot be deprived by any supposition to the contrary.

With perfect respect,

I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Tn ami y.
To the Vice-President of the United States, and
President of the Senate.

CLAIM OF KENTUCKY FOR EXPENSES ATTENDING CERTAIN EX-
PEDITIONS AGAINST THE INDIANS.

Communicated to the House of Representatives, April 8th. IT'.'J.

Treasury Department, April 7th. 17'' 1

The Secretary of the Treasury, to whom was referred, by an
order of the House of Kepresentatives of the 24th of January
last, a representation from the Legislature of the State of Ken-
tucky, concerning the expenses of certain expeditions carried on

590 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 37.

ust the Indians, since the 1st day of January, 1785, respect-
fully makes the following report thereupon :

The general principles of the settlement of accounts between
the United States and individual States, suppose the adjustment
oJ all similar matters which originated prior to the separation of
Kentucky from the State of Virginia. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that the expenses of the above-mentioned expeditions were
comprised in that settlement, as a claim on behalf of the State of
\ _ ii i i ; i . 1 1 1 ion the Un ited States, and were substantially admitted
to the credit of that State.

The Secretary does not perceive that the desire of the State
oi Kentucky could be complied with, but upon grounds which
Ld demand the entire exoneration of all the States, from
debts of contemporary or antecedent dates.

Which is respectfully submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury .

END OF VOL. III.

iyjj


===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 4) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander04hami/worksofalexander04hami_djvu.txt

/

\

\

\ v^N*^

\

At

v\

HAMILTON'S WORKS.

VOL. IV.

THE WORKS

OF

ALEXANDER HAMILTON;

COMPRISING

HIS CORRESPONDENCE,

AND

HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WHITINGS,

EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST,

CIVIL AND MILITARY.

PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN

THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

BY ORDER OF

THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.

EDITED BY

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

AUTHOR OF "THE LIFE OF HAMILTON."

» i »

VOL. IV.

NEW-YORK-

>

JOHN F. TROW, PRINTER, 49, 51 & 53 ANN-STREET.

M.DCCC.LI.

. ■ i. - . .

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850, by

JOHN C. HAMILTON,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern

District of New- York.

jtr^J JOJ3N F. TROW.

^ PrU'tr tab JtStmotjpw,

N^_2T> |9 4-nn-Street.

.<Et. 32.]

CABINET PAPERS.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, May 5, 1789.

Sir:

In conformity to the intimation you were pleased to honor
me with on evening last, I have reflected upon the eti-
quette proper to be observed by the President, and now submit
the ideas which have occurred to me on the subject.

The public good requires, as a primary object, that the dig-
nity of the office should be supported.

Whatever is essential to this ought to be pursued, though at
the risk of partial or momentary dissatisfaction. But care will
be necessary to avoid extensive disgust or discontent. Men's
minds are prepared for a pretty high tone in the demeanor of
the executive, but I doubt whether for so high a tone as in the
abstract might be desirable. The notions of equality are yet, in
my opinion, too general and too strong to admit of such a dis-
tance being placed between the President and other branches of
the government as might even be consistent with a due propor-
tion. The following plan will, I think, steer clear of extremes,
and involve no very material inconveniences.

I. The President to have a levee day once a week for re-
ceiving visits ; an hour to be fixed at which it shall be under-

D 1

2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

stood that he will appear, and consequently that the visitors are
to be previously assembled.

The President to remain half an hour, in which time he may
converse cursorily on indifferent subjects, with such persons as
shall invite his attention, and at the end of that half hour dis-
appear. Some regulation will be hereafter necessary to desig-
nate those who may visit.

A mode of introduction through particular officers will be
indispensable. No visits to be returned.

II. The President to accept no invitations, and to give for-
mal entertainments only twice or four times a year, the anni-
versaries of important events in the Revolution. If twice, the
day of the declaration of independence, and that of the inaugura-
tion of the President, which completed the organization of the
Constitution, to be preferred; if four times, the day of the
treaty of alliance with France, and that of the definitive treaty
with Britain to be added. The members of the two houses of
the legislature ; principal officers of the government ; foreign
ministers and other distinguished strangers only to be invited.
The numbers form in my mind an objection; but there may be
separate tables in separate rooms. This is practised in some
European courts. I see no other method in which foreign
ministers can, with propriety, be included in any attentions of
the table which the President may think fit to pay.

III. The President, on the levee days, either by himself or
some gentleman of his household, to give informal invitations to
family dinners on the days of invitation. Not more than six or
eight to be invited at a time, and the matter to be confined
essentially to members of the legislature and other official cha-
racters. The President never to remain long at table.

I think it probable that the last article will not correspond
with the ideas of most of those with whom your Excellency may
converse ; but on pretty mature reflection, I believe it will be
necessary to remove the idea of too immense an inequality, which
I fear would excite dissatisfaction and cabal. The thing may be
so managed as neither to occasion much waste of time nor to in-
fringe on dignity.

jEt. 32.] CABINET PAPERS. 3

It is an important point to consider what persons may have
access to your Excellency on business. The heads of depart-
ments will, of course, have this privilege. Foreign ministers of
some descriptions will also be entitled to it. In Europe, I am
informed, ambassadors only have direct access to the chief magis-
trate. Something very near what prevails there would, in my
opinion, be right. The distinction of rank between diplomatic
characters requires attention, and the door of access ought not to
be too wide to that class of persons. I have thought that the
members of the Senate should also have a right of individual ac-
cess on matters relative to the public administration. In England
and France peers of the realm have this right. We have none
such in this country, but I believe that it will be satisfactory to the
people to know that there is some body of men in the state who
have a right of continual communication with the President.
It will be considered a safeguard against secret combinations to
deceive him.

I have also asked myself, Will not the representatives ex-
pect the same privilege, and be offended if they are not allowed
to participate with the Senate? There is sufficient danger of
this to merit consideration. But there is a reason for the distinc-
tion in the Constitution. The Senate are coupled with the Presi-
dent in certain executive functions, treaties, and appointments.
This makes them in a degree his constitutional counsellors, and
gives them a peculiar claim to the right of access. On the whole,
I think the discrimination will be proper and may be hazarded.

I have chosen this method of communication because I un-
derstood your Excellency that it would be most convenient to
you. The unstudied and unceremonious manner of it will, I
hope, not render it the less acceptable. And if, in the execution
of your commands, at any time I consult frankness and sim-
plicity more than ceremony or profession, I flatter myself you
will not on that account distrust the sincerity of my cordial
wishes for your personal happiness, and the success of your ad-
ministration.

I have the honor to be, with the highest respect,

Your Excellency's most obedient and humble servant.

4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

New- York. May 5, 1789.

Dear Sir :

I beg you to accept my unfeigned thanks for your friendly
communications of this date, and that you will permit me to en-
treat a continuation of them as occasions may arise.

The manner chosen for doing it is most agreeable to me. It
is my wish to act right ; if I err, the head and not the heart
shall, with j 'ustice, be chargeable.

With sentiments of sincere esteem and regard,

I am, dear Sir,

Your obed't serv't,

Geo. Washington.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

25th September, 1789.

Dear Sir :

From a great variety of characters who have made a tender
of their services for suitable offices, I have selected the following.
If Mr. Jay and you will take the further trouble of running them
over to see if among them there can be found one who, under all

circumstances, is more eligible for the post-office than Col. 0 ,

I shall be obliged to you both for your opinion thereon by eleven
o'clock. Another paper, which is inclosed, will show how the
appointments stand to this time. And that you may have the
matter fully before you, I shall add that it is my present intention
to nominate Mr. Jefferson for Secretary of State, and Mr. Edmund
Eandolph as Attorney General, though their acceptance is pro-
blematical, especially the latter.

Yours, sincerely,

Geo. Washington.

Mt. 32.] CABINET PAPERS.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SHORT.

New York, October 7. 1789.

Sir:

I think it probable you will have learnt, through other chan-
nels, before this reaches you, my appointment as Secretary of
the Treasury of the United States. In this capacity the debt
due from us to France, will, of course, constitute one of the
objects of my attention.

Except with regard to a few laws of immediate urgency,
respecting commercial imposts and navigation, the late session of
Congress was wholly occupied in organizing the government.
A resolution, however, passed the House of Representatives
declarative of their opinion that an adequate provision for the
support of the public credit was a matter of high importance to
the honor and prosperity of the United States ; and instructing
me to prepare and report a plan for that purpose at their next
session.

In this state of things you will readily perceive that I can
say nothing very precise with regard to the provision to be made
for discharging the arrearages due to France. I am, however,
desirous that it should be understood that proper attention will
be paid to the subject on my part; and I take it for granted that
the national legislature will not fail to sanction the measures
which the faith and credit of the United States require in refer-
ence to it. In addition to this I shall only remark that it would
be a valuable accommodation to the government of this country
if the Court of France should think tit to suspend the payment
of the instalments of the principal due and to become due, for
five or six years from this period, on the condition of effectual
arrangements for the punctual discharge of the interest which
has accrued and shall accrue. But in giving this intimation it is
not my intention that any request should be made to that effect.
I should be glad that the thing might come about in the form of
a voluntary and unsolicited offer ; and that some indirect method
may be taken to communicate the idea where it would be of use

ft HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32

it should prevail. It may not be amiss that you should know
that I have hinted the matter in the inclosed private letter to
the Marquis de Lafayette, in forwarding which I request your
particular care.

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your obedient and humble servant,
Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

William Short, Charge d' Affaires, Paris.

P. S. — Since writing the above, I have, in a private and un-
official manner, broken the matter to the Count de Moustier ;
and I have reason to conclude he will promote what is desired.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York; Oct. 20; 1789.

Sm:

Agreeably to your desire, I sit down to commit a few lines
to the post.

Nothing worth particular mention has occurred since your
departure, except a report brought by Mr. Keane from South
Carolina, that Mr. McGillivray, the Indian chief, has, after a short
conference, left our commissioners, declaring that what they sug-
gested was only a repetition of the old story, and inadmissible,
or something to this effect. It is added that the lower Creeks
appeared, notwithstanding, willing to go into a treaty, but the
upper ones declined it. General Knox, who has particularly
conversed' with Mr. Keane, will doubtless give you a more accu-
rate statement of what he brings. It seems, however, that he
has his intelligence at second or third hand.

P. S. I have just seen a letter from a private gentleman of
considerable intelligence now in North Carolina, who gives an ill
picture of the prospect there, respecting the adoption of the
Constitution.

jEt. 32.J CABINET PAPERS.

SHOKT TO HAMILTON.

Paris, Nov. 30, 1789.

Sir:

The letter of October the 7th, which you did me the honor
to write me, was delivered two days ago by Mr. McCartey, and
yesterday I received the duplicate by Count de Moustier. Some
time before the debt of the United States to France had been
brought into view by M. Necker, in a memorial which he deliv-
ered to the National Assembly on the subject of their finances,
and which I inclosed in my No. 10 to Mr. Jay. Although it is
stated there that a proposition was on foot for negotiating a loan
in Amsterdam on the security of our debt, I was informed that
it was in agitation also to sell the debt. Knowing well that if a
sale did take place, it would be on terms onerous to France and
injurious to the credit of the United States, I thought myself
authorized by the circumstance to present this matter to the view
of the minister in a light in which I knew he had not seen it.
He then told me what were the reasons which had induced him
to listen to this proposition from Amsterdam, let me see clearly
that the rise of our credit there was unknown to him, and gave
me reason to believe that he should do nothing farther in that
business. As the effect of that negotiation would only have
been for the advantage of the house in Amsterdam, and prejudi-
cial to the interests of France and credit of the United States, I
hope the measures I took will not be disapproved. Soon after
Count de Moustier arrived, and sent the same time a renewal of
the proposition from Amsterdam, in which the houses there had
united the bankers of the United States, in hopes by that means
of carrying their plan into execution; the bankers however
withdrew as soon as they learned from those who had seen
Count de Moustier, that " he was instructed by Congress to op-
pose any negotiation of that kind." They had from the begin-
ning been averse to the negotiation, and gave in to it only from
an apprehension that it would otherwise be effected without
them.

Another company, of which Mr. Parker of Boston is the

8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 32.

organ, presents itself, as made a day or two ago — another propo-
sition to the minister — the nature of it is, to pay the amonnt of
our debt in bonds due by France to the lenders of Amsterdam.
As they pay bonds already due, and are to receive our debt, which
is not yet demandable, they require that the arrears of interest
which we owe should be ceded to them by France. They offer
me, in this case, to subscribe to the condition of putting off the
instalments due, or to become due for five or six years — interest to
begin from the present time. As this would square perfectly with
your wishes, and would not injure the credit of the United States,
since they pay their full debt to France (the interest which she
yields being considered as a discount for ready money), I shall
not oppose the negotiation if the minister thinks proper to enter
into it. I rather think, however, he will not, as the extreme and
pressing exigencies of the present crisis may induce him to keep
our debt, as the best means, and perhaps the only means, of com-
manding cash in a foreign country ; by it, he is sure of raising
money at Amsterdam, should he be induced to make the sacri-
fices he is asked. Nothing but necessity, however, will induce
him to do it.

In the case that no negotiation should take place, then I
think it probable that Count de Moustier will be able to effect
what you desire. As he enters into it with zeal, and as you de-
sire, with much propriety, that the proposition should come
from France, rather than be solicited by us, it will be best to let
him act in it. I shall take care, however, to lose no opportunity
of inducing the minister to come into }Tour view as of himself.
M. de Moustier tells me he has already spoken to M. de Mont-
morin on the subject, who has referred him entirely to M.
ISFecker.

Long before you receive this letter you will have seen Mr.
Jefferson, and received from him information that may induce
you perhaps to adopt other views respecting our debt to France.
The bankers of the United States still repeat to me the same as-
surances which they gave Congress in their letter of August last,
and which they reiterated to Mr. Jefferson before his departure.
It is useless to add observations on the effect which that measure

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 9

would operate in our favor on the minds of an assembly who are
new-modelling this country, and must soon influence its political
and commercial relations with others — an assembly who, whilst
they feel a real distress in their finances, are told by different
members, in the course of debate, that the debt of the United
States cannot be counted on with any certainty, either for
present or future relief. As soon as I see what turn the nego-
tiations mentioned above, or the proposition to be made by M.
de Moustier, in which the Marquis de Lafayette will do whatever
shall be required of him, will take, I will do myself the honor of
writing you again. In the mean time, I beg you to be assured,
sir, of the readiness with which I shall at all times be disposed to
carry into execution your views, and of the sentiments of pro-
found respect and attachment with which I have the honor
to be,

Sir, your most obedient, and

Most humble servant,

W. Short.

The Hon. Mr. Hamilton.

SHORT TO HAMILTON.

Paris, Jan. 28, 1790.

Sir:

I had the honor of addressing you a letter on the 30th of
November last, in answer to yours of the 7th of October. In it
I mentioned in what manner our debt to France had become an
object of ministerial consideration before the arrival of Count de
Moustier, who was charged with your letter, and the influence
which his arrival had on some of those who were negotiating
with the minister. Although I knew from your letter that he
was not charged with the powers which he had mentioned to
several, yet I did not think proper to contradict it, as he was
endeavoring to operate what I thought for the advantage of the
United States. Since that time, the proposals made by different

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 33.

persons to the minister on the subject of our debt have been of
two sorts. I mentioned them in my letters to Mr. Jay, and
begged the favor of him to communicate it to you, not being
willing to trouble you before something definitive was done.
This, however, being deferred longer than I had supposed possi-
ble after what I had heard M. Montmorin say on the proposition
now before the minister, and it being not improbable that the
delay may still continue, I have thought it my duty to inform
you of it.

The offer now before the minister is made by Mr. Gr. Morris
and Mr. Parker of Boston. It is, to pay the full amount of the
American debt (capital and interest), in French funds which pro-
duce an annual interest equal to that of the American debt after
the interest in arrear is added to the capital ; and also to oblige
themselves, after they shall have deposited the French funds in
the minister's hands, to receive them from him again, and give
him in their stead, for a certain part of them to be agreed on,
cash agreeable to their present value. This last article is to ena-
ble the minister to raise a certain sum of money on the American
debt, or rather on the French funds given for the American debt,
in the case of public exigencies requiring it. It is certain the
minister was determined to have accepted the offer, and has
been prevented only by the want of confidence in the pecuniary
abilities of those who made it. He asked security, and they
replied that no house could or would give security for a sum of
nearly forty millions of livres ; they desired that he should retain
the American obligations as his security, and should deliver them
only as he received their value in the French stocks. It seems
he did not choose to commence such a negotiation except with
some house of established reputation, and this probably that his
own might not be committed in the case of the contract not being
carried into full execution. Mr. Morris is, I believe, now in cor-
respondence with the bankers of the United States in order to
engage them to join him in this offer. One of them, who resides
at Paris, is much disposed to engage in it ; the others, I believe,
think differently. Thus, sir, stands the affair at present. It
comes to my knowledge as a private person. I have thought it

Mt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 11

best, throughout the whole of these negotiations, to take the
least part possible in them, as it will leave the most entire liberty
to the decisions of Congress, whose ratification will certainly be
considered as one of the conditions of the contract.

It is useless, after what I have said, to add that nothing has
been done by me on the subject of delaying the instalments and
arrears of interest agreeably to your desire. As I know Count
de Moustier is desirous of doing whatever he supposes agreeable
to the United States, and at the same time may prove to the
minister their confidence in him, I think this negotiation better
in his hands than any other, and also suppose it more conforma-
ble to your idea that the arrangement should be effected by his
means than mine. He has told me that he had no doubt he
should get M. Necker to make the offer of delay on the condi-
tions and in the manner you desired. He added, also, what I
think not so certain, that he had put a stop to the negotiation for
the purchase of the American debt. Since that time I have had
a conversation with M. Montmorin, which convinced me that if
any house of extensive and established credit should make the
same offer with that of Mr. Morris, that it would be accepted
without hesitation. On the whole, however, I think you may
consider it as certain, either that the debt will be purchased
by a company who will subscribe to your proposals, or that the
minister will make an offer of what you desire.

I have obtained from the Farmers General a return of the
vessels and cargoes which arrived in France from the United
States under the premium of the last year. Supposing it may
contribute as a datum to the calculations which you will neces-
sarily be induced to make on the American commerce, I do
myself the honor, sir, of forwarding it to you. My letters to
Mr. Jay long ago will have made known the continuation of
this premium to the first of July next, a like return at that period
will be easily obtained. A late letter from Bordeaux informs me
that several vessels have already arrived there from the United
States with flour and wheat of the last crop.

I beg leave to congratulate you, sir, on the return of happi-
ness and unexampled prosperity to our country, and on the effect

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

which it has already produced in the dispositions of Europe
towards us, — my ardent wishes for their long continuance are as
sincere as the assurances of those sentiments of profound respect
and attachment, with which I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your most obedient

and most humble servant,

W. Shoet.

To Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WILLINK AND CO., AMSTERDAM.

Treasury Department, May 7th, 1790.

Gentlemen :

Triplicates of your letter of the 25th of January last have
duly come to hand.

As the success of the negotiations for the purchase of the
debt due from the United States to France would have been an
unwelcome circumstance, I learn with pleasure that it had not
taken place.

The distinguished zeal you have in so many instances shown
for the interests of this country, entitles you, upon all occasions,
to a favorable interpretation of the motives by which you are
actuated, and is calculated to inspire a disposition to co-operate
in your arrangements, though without previous authority, as far
as circumstances will justify. Nor should I be apprehensive
that a sanction to the step you have taken, would form an incon-
venient precedent for the future.

But the delays naturally incident to deliberations on a matter
of the first consequence, the road to which had not been made
easy by the antecedent state of things, having hitherto suspended
any definitive resolutions concerning the public debt, I am not
now in a situation to speak explicitly in regard to the measure
you have undertaken. I can only say, that the United States
will stand in need of the aid of loans abroad, and that I expect
the requisite provision for making them upon solid and conse-

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 13

quently advantageous terms, will shortly be concluded upon ;
in which case, you will immediate] y hear from me.

P. S. You have herewith triplicate of my letter of the 7th of
April. The first and second of the bills therein mentioned have
been forwarded by the British packet Antelope, Captain Curtiss,
and by the Catherine, Captain Bull, bound for Amsterdam, and
I hope will get duly to hand.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury respectfully begs leave to sub-
mit to the President of the United States copies of a letter from
Messrs. Wilhem and Jan Willink, and Nicholas and Jacob Van
Staphorst and Hubbard, of the 25th day of January last, and of
an answer thereto, of the 7th day of May following.

The President will perceive that the last mentioned letter
was formed upon a plan not to discourage the progress of the
loan which had been set on foot, and yet to leave a final de-
termination upon it open.

The undertaking that loan, without previous authority, was
irregular, and, in that view, exceptionable, though the motives
assigned for it have considerable force as they respect the credit
of the United States; and so far as they may be supposed to
have really operated, afford a plausible apology for the measure.

As far, however, as the giving a sanction to it might serve
as a precedent, it would not be free from objection ; for it cer-
tainly would consist neither with the dignity nor the interest of
the government to encourage its agents in the practice of employ-
ing its credit in unauthorized loans.

But as an acceptance of the loan may be accompanied with a
prohibition of similar attempts hereafter, which would doubtless
have the effect of preventing them, it is submitted as the opinion
of the Secretary, that the irregularity of the proceeding ought

14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 33.

not to preclude such acceptance, if the loan itself be in other re-
spects desirable ; and the following considerations appear in his
judgment to render it so. The terms are probably as advanta-
geous as the present agitations of Europe, which must necessa-
rily create an unusual demand for money, authorize an expecta-
tion of obtaining.

A sum of one hundred and seventy -two thousand dollars will
be wanting at the commencement of the ensuing year, to dis-
charge the interest which will then fall due on the Dutch loans,
which it is essential to the credit of the United States should be
paid, and the timely payment of which could with difficulty be
accomplished in any other way. There was on the 21st of
March last due to Spain, for principal and interest of her ad-
vances and loans, the sum of two hundred and forty thousand
and eight dollars and eighty-nine cents ; and to France there
will be due at the end of the present year, for arrears of interest
and certain instalments of the principal of her loans, a sum little
short of three millions eiefht hundred thousand dollars.

Powerful considerations of different kinds, which will readily
occur to the mind of the President, urge to exertions to dis-
charge these demands. The Minister of the Finances of France
has, through the charge d'affaires of the United States at that
court, solicited that the money arising from the loan in question,
of which he had been apprised, might be applied in part payment
of the debt due to that nation. Its peculiar situation at the pre-
sent juncture contains an appeal to the sensibility, as well as to
the policy and honor of this country, in favor of that requisition.

If these reasons appear to the President sufficient to induce
his sanction to the loan in question, it will remain to consider
under what act it will be most expedient to authorize its being
made, whether that of the 4th or that of the 12th of the present
month, or whether it may not be advisable to authorize it partly
under one and partly under the other.

It is conceived that the business may easily take the latter
form, if deemed eligible; and this is recommended by the con-
sideration that it will contribute in a degree to all the purposes
which require to be promoted.

JEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 15

If two-thirds of the sum should be borrowed on account of
the twelve millions, and the remaining third on account of the
two millions, the next half year's interest in Holland may be
discharged, the arrears of interest on the debt due to Spain may
be paid off, a respectable payment may be made to France as a
prelude to more considerable ones, and a sum of consequence
to the operation, would remain towards the reduction of our
debt and supporting our funds in conformity to the intention of
the last mentioned act.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

Treasury Department, May 28, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury conceives it to be his duty
most respectfully to represent to the President of the United
States, that there are, in his judgment, objections of a very seri-
ous and weighty nature to the resolutions of the two houses of
Congress of the twenty-first instant, concerning certain arrears of
pay, due to the officers and soldiers of the lines of Virginia and
North Carolina.

The third of these resolutions directs, that in cases where
payment has not been made to the original claimant in person, or
to his representative, it shall be made to the original claimant,
or to such person or persons only as shall produce a power of
attorney duly attested by tv:o justices of the peace of the county,
in which such person or persons reside, authorizing him or them
to receive a certain specified sum.

By the laws of most if not all the States, claims of this kind
are in their nature assignable for a valuable consideration ; and
the assignor may constitute the assignee his attorney or agent to
receive the amount. The import of every such assignment is a
contract, express or implied, on the part of the assignor, that the
assignee shall receive the sum assigned to his own use. In

16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 33,

aking it no precise form is necessary, but any instrument com-
petent to conveying with clearness and precision the sense of the
parties, suffices ; there is no need of the co-operation of any
justice of the peace, or other magistrate whatever.

The practice of the Treasury and of the public officers in
other departments, in the adjustment and satisfaction of claims
upon the United States, has uniformly corresponded with the
rules of that law.

A regulation, therefore, having a retrospective operation, and
prescribing with regard to past transactions new and unknown
requisites, by which the admission of claims is to be guided, is
an infraction of the rights of individuals, acquired under pre-
existing laws, and a contravention of the public faith, pledged
by the course of public proceedings. It has consequently a ten-
dency not less unfriendly to public credit, than to the security of
property.

Such is the regulation contained in the resolution above
referred to. It defeats all previous assignments not accompanied
with a power of attorney attested by two justices of the peace of
the county where the assignor resides; a formality, which, for
obvious reasons, cannot be presumed to have attended any of them,
and which does not appear to have been observed with respect to
those upon which application for payment has hitherto been
made.

It is to be remarked that the assignee has no method of com-
pelling the assignor to perfect the transfer by a new instrument,
in conformity to the rule prescribed ; if even the existence of
such a power, the execution of which would involve a legal con-
troversy, could be a satisfactory cause for altering by a new law
that state of things, which antecedent law and usage had estab-
lished between the parties.

It is, perhaps, too questionable, whether ah assignee, however
equitable his pretensions were, could, under the operation of the
provision which has been recited, have any remedy whatever
for the recovery of the money or value which he may have paid
to the assignor.

It is not certain that a legislative act, decreeing payment to a

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 17

different person, would not be a legal bar ; but if the existence
of such a remedy were certain, it would be but a very inconclu-
sive consideration. The assignment may have been a security
for a precarious or desperate debt, which security will be wrested
from the assignee, or it may have been a composition between an
insolvent debtor and his creditor, and the only resource of the
latter : or the assignor may be absent and incapable either of
benefiting by the provision, or of being called to an account.
And in every case the assignee would be left to the casualty of
the ability of the assignor to repay ; to the perplexity, trouble,
and expense of a suit at law. In respect to the soldiers, the
presumption would be, in the greater number of cases, that the
pursuit of redress would be worse than acquiescence in the loss.
To vary the risks of parties, to supersede the contracts between
them; to turn over a creditor without his consent from one
debtor to another, to take away a right to a specific thing, leaving
only the chance of a remedy for retribution, are not less positive
violations of property than a direct confiscation.

It appears from the debates in the House of Eepresentatives,
and it may be inferred from the nature of the proceeding, that a
suggestion of fraud has been the occasion of it. Fraud is cer-
tainly a good objection to any contract, and where it is properly
ascertained invalidates it. But the power of ascertaining it is
the peculiar province of the Judiciary Department. The princi-
ples of good government conspire with those of justice to place
it there. 'Tis there only that such an investigation of the fact
can be had, as ought to precede a decision. 'Tis there only the
parties can be heard, and evidence on both sides produced ; with-
out which surmise must be substituted to proofi and conjecture to
fact.

This, then, is the dilemma incident to legislative interference.
Either the legislature must erect itself into a court of justice, and
determine each case upon its own merits, after a full hearing of
the allegations and proofs of the parties ; or it must proceed
upon vague suggestions, loose reports, or at best upon partial
and problematical testimony, to condemn in the gross and in the
dark, the fairest and most unexceptionable claims, as well as
D 2

18 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

those which may happen to be fraudulent and exceptionable.
The first would be an usurpation of the judiciary authority, the
last is at variance with the rules of property, the dictates of
equity, and the maxims of good government.

All admit the truth of these positions as general rules. But
when a departure from it is advocated for any particular purpose,
it is usually alleged that there are exceptions to it, that there are
certain extraordinary cases, in which the public good demands
and justifies an extraordinary interposition of the legislature.

This doctrine in relation to extraordinary cases is not to be
denied ; but it is highly important that the nature of those cases
should be carefully distinguished.

It is evident that every such interposition, deviating from the
usual course of law and justice, and infringing the established
rules of property, which ought as far as possible to be held sacred
and inviolable, is an overleaping of the ordinary and regular
bounds of legislative discretion ; and is in the nature of a resort
to first principles. Nothing, therefore, but some urgent public
necessity, some impending national calamity, something that
threatens direct and general mischief to the society, for which
there is no adequate redress in the established course of things,
can, it is presumed, be a sufficient cause, for the employment of
so extraordinary a remedy. An accommodation to the interests
of a small part of the community, in a case of inconsiderable
magnitude, on a national scale, cannot, in the judgment of the
Secretary, be entitled to that character.

If partial inconveniences and hardships occasion legislative
interferences in private contract, the intercourses of business
become uncertain ; the security of property is lessened, the confi-
dence in government destroyed or weakened.

The Constitution of the United States interdicts the States
individually, from passing any law impairing the obligation of
contracts. This, to the more enlightened part of the community,
was not one of the least recommendations of that Constitution.
The too frequent intermeddlings of the State legislatures, in
relation to private contracts, were extensively felt, and seriously
lamented ; and a constitution which promises a preventive, was,

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 19

by those who felt and thought in that manner, eagerly embraced.
Precedents of similar interferences by the legislature of the
United States, cannot fail to alarm the same class of persons, and
at the same time to diminish the respect of the State legislatures
for the interdiction alluded to. The example of the national
government in a matter of this kind, may be expected to have a
far more powerful influence than the precepts of the Constitution.

The present case is that of a particular class of men, highly
meritorious indeed, but inconsiderable in point of numbers, and
the whole of the property in question less than fifty thousand
dollars, which, when distributed among those who are principally
to be benefited by the regulation, does not exceed twenty -five
dollars per man. The relief of the individuals, who may have
been subjects of imposition, in so limited a case, seems a very
inadequate cause for a measure which breaks in upon those great
principles, that constitute the foundations of property.

The eligibility of the measure is more doubtful, as the courts
of justice are competent to the relief which it is the object of the
resolution to give, as far as the fact of fraud or imposition, or
undue advantage, can be substantiated. It is true that many of
the individuals would probably not be in a condition to seek that
relief from their own resources ; but the aid of government may
in this respect be afforded, in a way which will be consistent with
the established order of things. The Secretary, from the infor-
mation communicated to him, believing it to be probable that
undue advantages had been taken, had conceived a plan for the
purpose, of the following kind : That measures should be adopt-
ed for procuring the appointment of an agent or attorney, by the
original claimants, or if deceased, by their legal representatives ;
that payment of the money should be deferred until this had
been effected ; that the amount of the sums due should then be
placed in the hands of the proper officer for the purpose of pay-
ment ; that a demand should be made upon him, on behalf of
the original claimants, by their agent, and as a like demand
would of course be made by the assignees, that the parties
should be informed that a legal adjudication was necessary to as-
certain the validity of their respective pretensions ; and that in

20 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

this state of things the Attorney General should be directed either
to prosecute or defend for the original claimants, as should ap-
pear to him most likely to insure justice. A step of this kind
appeared to the Secretary to be warranted and dictated, as well
by a due regard to the defenceless situation of the parties who
may have been prejudiced, as by considerations resulting from
the propriety of discouraging similar practices.

It is with reluctance and pain the Secretary is induced to
make this representation to the President. The respect which he
entertains for the decisions of the two houses of Congress ; the
respect which is due to those movements of humanity towards
the supposed sufferers, and of indignation against those who are
presumed to have taken an undue advantage ; an unwillingness
to present before the mind of the President, especially at the
present juncture, considerations which may occasion perplexity
or anxiety, concur in rendering the task peculiarly unwelcome.
Yet the principles which appear to the Secretary to have been
invaded, in this instance, are, in his estimation, of such funda-
mental consequence to the stability, character, and success of the
government, and at the same time so immediately interesting to
the department intrusted to his care, that he feels himself irre-
sistibly impelled by a sense df duty, as well to the Chief Magis-
trate as to the community, to make a full communication of his
impressions and reflections.

He is sensible that an inflexible adherence to the principles
contended for must often have an air of rigor, and will some-
times be productive of particular inconveniences. The general
rules of property, and all those general rules which form the
links of society, frequently involve in their ordinary operation,
particular hardships and injuries ; yet the public order and the
general happiness require a steady conformity to them. It is
perhaps always better that partial evils should be submitted to,
than that principles should be violated. In the infancy of our
present government, peculiar strictness and circumspection are
called for, by the too numerous instances of relaxations, which
in other quarters, and on other occasions, have discredited our
public measures.

JEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 2 1

The Secretary is not unaware of the delicacy of an opposition
to the resolutions in question, by the President, should his
view of the subject coincide with that of the Secretary ; yet he
begs leave on this point to remark, that such an opposition in a
case, in which a small part of the community only is directly
concerned, would be less likely to have disagreeable consequences
than in one which should affect a very considerable portion of
it ; and the prevention of an ill precedent, if it be truly one,
may prove a decisive obstacle to other cases of greater extent
and magnitude, and of a more critical tendency. If the objec-
tions are as solid as they appear to the Secretary to be, he trusts
they cannot fail, with the sanction of the President, to engage
the approbation, not only of the generality of considerate men,
but of the community at large. And if momentary dissatisfac-
tion should happen to exist in particular parts of the Union, it
is to be hoped it will be speedily removed by the measures
which, under the direction of the President, may be pursued, for
obtaining the same end in an unexceptionable mode ; for the s lte-
cess of which the Secretary will not fail to exert his most zeal-
ous endeavors.

It is proper that the President should be informed, that if ob-
jections should be made by him, they will in all probability be
effectual ; as the resolutions passed in the Senate with no greater
majority than twelve to ten.

The Secretary feels an unreserved confidence in the justice
and magnanimity of the President ; that whatever may be his
view of the subject, he will at least impute the present represen-
tation to an earnest and anxious conviction in the mind of the
Secretary, of the truth and importance of the principles which
he supports, and of the inauspicious tendency of the measure to
which he objects, co-operating with a pure and ardent zeal for
the public good, and for the honor and prosperity of the admin-
istration of the Chief Magistrate.

22 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

HAMILTON TO SHOKT.

Treasury Department, May 29, 1790.

Sir:

I am honored with your letters of the 28th and 30th, which
did not come to my hands till the 27th instant.

The conduct you have prescribed to yourself in regard to
the negotiations concerning the debt of the United States, ap-
pears to be very prudent and judicious, and such as will give the
United States a convenient election of the measures to be pur-
sued in future.

Previous to the receipt of your favor, I had written to the com-
missioners upon the business of their letter of the 25th of Janu-
ary, a duplicate of which you were so good as to inclose to me.
Considering their zeal, exertions, and general deportment on
former occasions, as entitling them to the regard of government,
I wrote them in a manner corresponding with those impressions,
yet so as to leave the United States at full liberty in their final
determinations on the late transaction, and particularly guarding
against the ill consequences that would result from establishing
a precedent of this nature. It is possible, when our arrange-
ments shall be completed, that the United States may find it
convenient to confirm this transaction, but in the mean time it
appeared most advisable to treat it as I have mentioned.

I am to acknowledge my obligation to you for the return of
the vessels and cargoes from the United States that have arrived
in the ports of France. It will be on many occasions a very
useful document.

With cordial satisfaction, sir, I reciprocate your congratula-
tions on the late happy change in the situation of our country,
and I feel great pleasure in receiving information so authentic
that it has influenced favorably the dispositions of the European*
nations. A prosecution of the same just and salutary principles,
it may be reasonably hoped, will give permanency to our present
advantages, and secure a larger portion of those benefits which
the United States are qualified to produce.

,Et.33.] cabinet papers. 23

JEFFERSON" TO HAMILTON.

June 12, 1790.
Thomas Jefferson has the honor to send to the Secretary of
the Treasury a rough draft of a Report on the subject of meas-
ures, weights, and coins, in order that the Secretary may be able
to accommodate his plan of a Mint to the very small alteration
of the money unit proposed in this Eeport.

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

June 13, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor to acknowledge
the reception of the Report of the Secretary of State on the sub-
ject of measures, weights, and coins. There is no view which he
has taken of the matter which stands opposed to the alteration of
the money unit as at present contemplated by the regulations of
Congress, either in the way suggested in the Report or in that
mentioned in the note of yesterday. And there are certainly
strong reasons to render a correspondency desirable. The idea
of a general standard among nations, as in the proposal of the
Bishop d' Autun, seems full of convenience and order.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

June 18, 1790.
The Secretary of the Treasury, having, in consequence of the
Act for the establishment and support of light-houses, directed
his inquiries to that object, begs leave most respectfully to sub-
mit the result to the President of the United States of America.

24 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 33.

New Hampshire.

In this State is only one light-house, situated on a point of
land on the island of Newcastle, three miles from Portsmouth,
without the walls of the fort which commands the entrance of the
Piscataqua river. It is under the superintendence of a commis-
sary, who is captain of the fort ; and is, at present, in good repair.
The annual expense of maintaining it is estimated at $217 20.

Massachusetts.

In this State are six light-houses, at the following places, viz. :

Boston,
Cape Ann,
Plvmouth,
Plum Island,
Nantucket,
Portland.

The whole expense attending the support of these
establishments, including the officers' salaries, is

' estimated at $5736 00

The officers appointed for their management are, at
Boston, Captain Thomas Knox, with an annual

salary of $400 00

At Cape Ann, Mr. Samuel Houston, with ditto, . 400 00

At Plymouth, the widow of the late General Thomas,

with ditto, 233 50

At Plum Island, Mr. Lowell, with ditto, ... 220 00
At Nantucket, Mr. Paul Pinkham, with ditto, . . 250 00

At Portland, the building not being perfectly completed, no
person is yet appointed to superintend it.

Exclusive of the above, there is an officer styled a commis-
sary, who has the charge of supplying the whole. This office is

now filled by Mr. Divens, but what allowance he has for

executing it, the Secretary has not yet ascertained.

When the building at Portland is completed, the expense of
maintaining it, and the allowance of the commissary superintend-

Mt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 25

ing the whole, will probably make the total amount of the light-
house establishment in the State of Massachusetts about $6000
per annum.

Connecticut.

In this State there is only one light-house, which is situated
at the port of New London ; it is built of stone, and has lately
been repaired. In the month of May last, the General Assembly
ordered some buoys to be fixed in the harbor for the safety of
the navigation, but nothing has been yet done in consequence of
the Act.

The annual expense of this establishment is estimated at §450.

At New Haven there is a pier in the harbor, which is private
property, and a buoy at the entrance ; two other buoys are judged
necessary for the safety of the navigation.

New- York.

At New- York there is a light-house, and was lately a beacon
at Sandy Hook, the annual expense of which (exclusive of an
allowance to the wardens of the port) is about $1500.

The number of the wardens is four, who have (besides other
duties incident to their office) the charge of supplying and super-
intending this establishment. They have each an allowance of
one dollar and a half per day when employed in visiting the
works, exclusive of their provisions, &c. The master warden is
Mr. Thomas Eandall. The beacon has been recently blown
down, and will require to be replaced ; which can be done at an
inconsiderable expense.

In New-Jersey.
There is no light-house, nor any establishment of that nature.

In Pennsylvania.

There is a light-house at Cape Henlopen, and several buoys,
beacons, and piers, for the security of the navigation on the bay
and river Delaware. The annual expense of these establish-
ments, which have been under the care of a board of wardens

26 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

of the port of Philadelphia, is estimated by the present master
warden at $4133.

This office is now filled by Capt. William Allibone.

In Delaware.

There is no light-house nor other establishment of this nature,
those on the bay and river Delaware aoswering for that State.

In Maryland and Virginia.

There are at present no light-houses, nor any beacons, buoys,
&c, for the security of vessels navigating the Bay of Chesapeake.
In consequence of certain acts of the legislatures of these States,
styled the compact laws, considerable sums have been collected
heretofore, by a tax upon tonnage, for raising a fund for the
purpose of building light-houses, &c, at Cape Henry. The Com-
missioners appointed by the two States for superintending this
work, expended on it previous to the war, in collecting materi-
als, &c, at between 7 and £8000, Virginia currency ; but it is
presumed that no considerable benefit can be now derived from
this expenditure. The present expense for erecting this light-
house, &c. (as estimated by one of the commissioners appointed
on the part of the State of Virginia) is computed at $34,076 66.

The annual expense of maintaining it would probably not
exceed $2000.

In South Carolina.

There is one light-house, and the necessary buoys and beacons,
for the security of the navigation into that harbor. The light-
house is in good condition, but the buoys and beacons want re-
pair. The annual expense attending this establishment is com-
puted at $1457.

The officer having charge of them at present, is Mr. Thomas
Hollingsby, who is recommended by the commissioners of pilot-
age for that harbor as a person perfectly qualified for the busi-
ness. His present salary is $257 14.

Kt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 27

Georgia.

No information has been received from that State on this
subject, although the same inquiries have been made there as in
other States.

To this statement of the substance of the information, which
he has received respecting the several establishments in ques-
tion, the Secretary begs leave to add, that most of the persons
who have been singly charged with the care of any of them,
have been recommended as proper to be continued, and that no
objection has been made to any; and that in the two instances
in which that case has been committed to boards (as in the cases
of Pennsylvania and New-York), the principals of those boards
are well recommended.

It appears to the Secretary, that it will be expedient to con-
form to the plan, which exists in Massachusetts, and to substi-
tute individuals to boards, where the business has been commit-
ted to them ; and he thinks it probable that a reappointment of
the persons who have been heretofore employed, will be most
likely to produce an eligible choice, and to give satisfaction ;
and also that the allowances heretofore made (as far as they ap-
ply) will be a good standard for those to be established. As,
however, it is the intention of the legislature that the expendi-
tures for these establishments should be made by contract, which,
from the nature of the objects, must generally be conducted on
the spot, it seems advisable, for this and other reasons which will
occur, that in the distant States there should be some other per-
sons than the immediate superintendents of the light-houses con-
nected with them in the business.

As a temporary arrangement for this purpose, the Secretary
would propose, that the particular superintendents in the several
States, except Pennsylvania and New- York, should be put under
the direction of the collectors of the principal ports :

In New-Hampshire, of the Collector of Portsmouth.

In Massachusetts, of the Collector of Boston.

In Connecticut, of the Collector of New London.

In South Carolina, of the Collector of Charleston.

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 33.

Georgia is omitted, from the want of information.

Pennsylvania and New- York are excepted, because their
contiguity to the seat of government will place the particular
superintendents sufficiently under the eye of the Secretary of the
Treasury.

Pursuant to the foregoing ideas, the Secretary submits the
following nominations.

At Boston, Capt. Thomas Knox, with a salary of $400 per an.
At Cape Ann, Mr. Samuel Houston, with do. of . 400
At Plymouth, the widow of the late General Thomas,
with do. of .....

At Plum Island, Mr. Lowell, with do. of

At Nantucket, Mr. Paul Pinkham, with do. of
At New London (a person to be nominated by Gen-
eral Huntington), with do. of .
At New- York, Mr. Thomas Eandall, with do. of
At Philadelphia, Mr. William Allibone, with do. of 500
At Charleston, South Carolina, Mr. Thomas Hol-
lingby, with do. of .
220
100
260

u

a
a

u

«
u
((

u

No account having been received at the Treasury of the com-
pletion of the light-house erecting at Portland in Massachusetts,
the Secretary has not included it in the present nomination ; he
has also omitted the port of New Haven in Connecticut, as the
pier and buoys in that harbor appear to be private property, not
that of the State.

In the States of Virginia and Maryland, it appears from what
is above stated in this Eeport, that there are no establishments
in those States, although materials have formerly been collected
for building a light-house at Cape Henry. As the Act of the
seventh of August last relative to the support of light-houses,
&c, renders it necessary to obtain a cession of a proper place
near the entrance of the Chesapeake previous to the erection of
a light-house in that quarter, the Secretary submits it to the con-
sideration of the President, whether it would not be advisable to
determine on the place best adapted for such an establishment,
in order that an application may be made to the supreme exe-

>Et. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 29

cutive of the State "under whose jurisdiction the same may be,
for a cession of the same.

It will be observed, that the Secretary has not mentioned a
person for taking charge of the light-house at New Hampshire.
The present commissary (as before stated) is the captain of the
fort, near whose walls the light-house is situated. The collector
of the port of Portsmouth is of opinion that the care of it should
be intrusted to the captain of the fort, but has said nothing as to
the qualifications of Mr. Clap for this office ; or of the allowance
made to him on this account by the State : the Secretary there-
fore submits the propriety of deferring any appointment for this
place till further inquiry is made on these points, to which im-
mediate attention will be paid.

With respect to the duties of the general superintendents, as
the Act contemplates the maintaining, supporting, and erecting
the establishments to be by contract, the Secretary is of opinion,
that in all cases where the nature of the service or supply will
possibly admit of the same being so done with advantage to the
public, the superintendents should be authorized to enter into a
contract for the same, subject to the ratification of the Secretary
of the Treasury, with the approbation of the President; and
where the same cannot be so done, that the general superintend-
ents shall direct the execution of the necessary business at as low
a rate as possible.

This line the Secretary is induced to suggest, as he finds, on
an investigation of the different objects of expenditure accruing
under these establishments, that cases will sometimes occur
(especially in the repair of works and replacing buoys, &c.)
where it will not be possible to establish any principles of calcu-
lation for doing the same by contract ; in which case the party
contracting (should such be found) would either demand an
extravagant allowance for securing him against the possibility of
risk, or endeavor to avoid the same by executing his contract in
an inefficient manner.

All which is respectfully submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 33.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, June 18, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor respectfully to
submit to the President of the United States, for his considera-
tion, a contract (with the letter that accompanied it) between
William Allibone, superintendent of the light-house, beacons,
buoys, and public piers on the river and bay of Delaware, and
Abraham Hargis, keeper of the light-house at Cape Henlopen.
The yearly salary of £130, although it appears high, is found,
on examination, the same as was allowed to this person by the
State of Pennsylvania. The allowance of £13 for the several
supplies and services specified, does not appear unreasonable.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, June 21, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor respectfully to
submit to the President of the United States, for his approbation,
the inclosed contract for timber, boards, nails, and workmanship,
for a beacon to be placed near the light-house on Sandy Hook ;
the terms of which, he begs leave to observe, are, in his opinion,
favorable to the United States.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Memorandum of the substance of a Communication made on Thurs-
day, the Eighth of July, 1790, to the Subscriber, by Major
Beckwith, as by direction of Lord Dorchester.

Major Beckwith began by stating that Lord Dorchester had
directed him to make his acknowledgments for the politeness

^t. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 31

which had been shown in respect to the desire he had intimated
to pass by New-York in his way to England ; adding that the
prospect of a war between Great Britain and Spain would pre-
vent or defer the execution of his intention in that particular.
He next proceeded to observe, that Lord Dorchester had been
informed of a negotiation commenced on the other side of the
water, through the agency of Mr. Morris, mentioning, as the
subscriber understood, principally by way of proof of Lord Dor-
chester's knowledge of the transaction, that Mr. Morris had not
produced any regular credentials, but merely a letter from the
President directed to himself; that some delays had intervened,
partly on account of Mr. Morris's absence on a trip to Holland,
as was understood ; and that it was not improbable these delays
and some other circumstances, may have impressed Mr. Morris
with an idea of backwardness on the part of the British ministry.
That his lordship, however, had directed him to say that an in-
ference of this sort would not, m his opinion, be well founded,
as he had reason to believe that the cabinet of Great Britain
entertained a disposition not only towards a friendly intercourse,
but towards an alliance with the United States. Major Beck-
with then proceeded to speak of the particular cause of the ex-
pected rupture between Spain and Britain, observing it was one
in which all commercial nations must be supposed to favor the
views of Great Britain. That it was therefore presumed, should
a war take place, that the United States would find it to be
their interest to take part with Great Britain rather than with
Spain.

Major Beckwith concluded with producing a letter, signed
" Dorchester," which letter contained ideas similar to those he
had expressed, though in more guarded terms, and without any
allusion to instructions from the British cabinet. This letter, it
is now recollected, hints at the non-execution of the treaty of
peace on our part.

On the subscriber remarking the circumstance that this letter
seemed to speak only the sentiments of his lordship, Major
Beckwrith replied, that whatever reasons there might be for that
course of proceeding in the present stage of the business, it was

32 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

to be presumed that his lordship knew too well the consequence
of such a step, to have taken it without a previous knowledge of
the intentions of the cabinet.

Major Beckwith afterwards mentioned that Lord Dorchester
had heard with great concern of some depredations committed
by some Indians on our western frontier. That he wished it to
be believed that nothing of this kind had received the least
countenance from him. That, on the contrary, he had taken
every proper opportunity of inculcating upon the Indians a
pacific disposition towards us ; and that as soon as he had heard
of the outrages lately committed, he had sent a message to en-
deavor to prevent them. That his lordship had understood that
the Indians alluded to were a banditti, composed chiefly or in
a great part of Creeks or Cherokees, over whom he had no in-
fluence, intimating at the same time that these tribes were sup-
posed to be in connection with the Spaniards.

He stated, in the next place, that his lordship had been in-
formed that a Captain Hait, in our service, and a Mr. Nimble,
and indeed some persons in the treaty at Fort Harman, had
thrown out menaces with regard to the posts on the frontier, and
had otherwise held very intemperate language; which, how-
ever, his lordship considered rather as effusions of individual
feelings, than as the effects of any instruction from authority.

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

July 22, 1790.

On Thursday, the 22d instant, I had a second interview with
Major Beckwith, in which I spoke to him nearly as follows.

I have made the proper use of what you said to me at our
last interview.

As to what regards the objects of a general nature mentioned
by you, though your authority for the purpose from Lord Dor-
chester is out of the question, and though I presume from his

JEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 33

lordship's station and character, and the knowledge he appears
to have of what is passing on the other side of the water, with
regard to Mr. Morris, that the step he has taken through you is
conformable to the views of your Cabinet, and not without its
sanction ; yet you are no doubt sensible that the business presents
itself in a shape which does not give the proper authenticity to
that fact, and is wholly without formality. You must also be sen-
sible that there is a material difference between your situation
and that of Mr. Morris. His credentials, though not formal,
proceed from the proper source. Yours are neither formal nor
authoritative.

This state of things will, of course, operate on what I am
going to say on the subject. As to what relates to friendship
between Great Britain and the United States, I conceive myself
warranted in declaring that there is in the government of this
country a sincere disposition to concur in obviating with candor
and fairness all ground of misunderstanding which may now
exist in reference to the execution of the late Treaty of peace,
and in laying the foundation of future good understanding, by
establishing liberal terms of commercial intercourse. ■»

As to alliance, this opens a wide field. The thing is suscep-
tible of a vast variety of forms. 'Tis not possible to judge what
would be proper or what could be done, unless points were brought
into view. If you are in condition to mention particulars, it
may afford better ground of conversation.

I stopped here for an answer.

Major Beckwith replied, that he could say nothing more
precise than he had already done.

That being the case, (continued I,) I can only say, that the
thing is in too general a form to admit of a judgment of what
may be eventually admissible or practicable. If the subject shall
hereafter present itself to discussion in an authentic and proper
shape, I have no doubt we shall.be ready to converse freely upon
it. And you will naturally conclude that we shall be disposed
to pursue whatever shall appear under all circumstances to be
our interest, as far as may consist with our honor. At present I
would not mean either to raise or repress expectation.
d 3

34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

Major Beckwith seemed to admit that as things were circum-
stanced nothing explicit could be expected, and went on to make
some observations, which I understood as having for object
to sound whether there existed any connection between Spain
and us ; and whether the questions with regard to the Mississippi
were settled.

Perceiving this, I thought it best to avoid an appearance of
mystery, and to declare without hesitation,

" That there was no particular connection between Spain and
the United States, within my knowledge, and that it was matter
of public notoriety, that the questions alluded to were still unad-
justed."

The rest of our conversation chiefly consisted of assurances
on my part, that the menaces which had been mentioned by him
as having been thrown out by some individuals with regard to
the western posts were unauthorized, proceeding probably from
a degree of irritation which the detention of the posts had pro-
duced in the minds of many ; and of a repetition, on his part, of
the assurances which he had before given of Lord Dorchester's
disposition to discourage Indian outrages.

Something was said respecting the probable course of milita-
ry operations, in case of a war between Britain and Spain, which
Mr. Beckwith supposed would be directed towards South Amer-
ica; alleging, however, that this was mere conjecture on his part.
I hinted cautiously our dislike of any enterprise on New Orleans.

A. Hamilton.

Note by A. H. — Mr. Jefferson was privy to this transaction. The views of the
government were to discard suspicion that any engagements with Spain, or inten-
tions hostile to Great Britain, existed ; to leave the ground in other respects vague
and open, so as that in case of rupture between Great Britain and Spain, the Unit-
ed States ought to be in the best situation to turn it to account, in reference to the
disputes between them and Great Britain on the one hand, and Spain on the other.

tEt.33.] cabinet papers. 35

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

United States, Aug. 27, 1790.

Provided the dispute between Great Britain and Spain should
come to the decision of arms, from a variety of circumstances
(individually unimportant and inconclusive, but very much the
reverse when compared and combined), there is no doubt in my
mind, that New Orleans and the Spanish posts above it on the
Mississippi, will be among the first attempts of the former, and
that the reduction of them will be undertaken by a combined
operation from Detroit.

The consequences of having so formidable and enterprising
people as the British on both our flanks and rear, with their
navy in front, as they respect our western settlements, which
may be seduced thereby, as they regard the security of the Union
and its commerce with the West Indies, are too obvious to need
enumeration.

What then should be the answer of the Executive of the
United States to Lord Dorchester, in case he should apply for
permission to march troops through the territory of said States
from Detroit to the Mississippi ? What notice ought to be taken
of the measure, if it should be undertaken without leave, which
is the most probable proceeding of the two ?

The opinion of the Secretary of the Treasury is requested in
writing upon the above statement.

Gr W.

JEFFERSON TO WASHINGTON.

Aug. 28, 1790.

Opinion on the questions stated in the President's note of Aug. 27,

1790.

I am so deeply impressed with the magnitude of the dangers
which will attend our government if Louisiana and the Floridas » ■ ;

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 33.

be added to the British empire, that in my opinion we ought to
make ourselves parties in the general war expected to take place,
should this be the only means of preventing the calamity.

But I think we should defer this step as long as possible ; be-
cause war is full of chances, which may relieve us from the ne-
cessity of interfering ; and if necessary, still the later we interfere
the better we shall be prepared.

It is often, indeed, more easy to prevent the capture of a
place, than to retake it. Should it be so, in the case in question,
the difference between the two operations of preventing and re-
taking, will not be so costly as two, three, or four years more of
war.

So that I am for preserving neutrality as long, and entering
into the war as late, as possible.

If this be the best course, it decides, in a good degree, what
should be our conduct, if the British ask leave to march troops
through our territory, or march them without leave.

It is well enough agreed, in the law of nations, that for a
neutral power to give or refuse permission to the troops of either
belligerent party to pass through their territory is no breach of
neutrality, provided the same refusal or permission be extended
to the other party.

If we give leave of passage, then, to the British troops, Spain
will have no just cause of complaint against us, provided we
extend the same leave to her when demanded.

If we refuse (as indeed we have a right to do), and the troops
should pass notwithstanding, of which there can be little doubt,
we shall stand committed ; for either we must enter immediately
into the war, or pocket an acknowledged insult in the face of the
world ; and one insult pocketed soon produces another.

There is, indeed, a middle course, which I should be inclined
to prefer. That is, to avoid giving any answer. They will pro-
ceed, notwithstanding ; but to do this under our silence will ad-
mit of palliation, and produce apologies, from military necessity ;
and will leave us free to pass it over without dishonor, or to
make it a handle of quarrel hereafter, if we should have use for
it as such. But if we are obliged to give an answer, I think the

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 37

occasion not such as should induce us to hazard that answer
which might commit us to the war at so early a stage of it ; and
therefore that the passage should be permitted.

If they should pass without having asked leave, I should be
for expressing our dissatisfaction to the British court, and keep-
ing alive an altercation on the subject, till events should decide
whether it is most expedient to accept their apologies, or profit
of the aggression as a cause of war.

Th. Jefferson.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Aug. 28, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor respectfully to
•submit to the President of the United States, for his determina-
tion, a request from the Naval Officer of the district of New-
York.

The Secretary humbly remarks, that it appears desirable, as
far as possible, to avoid absences of such important officers for so
long a duration, but that if the nature of the reasons should
induce the President to grant the request, the Naval Officer will
no doubt leave his public business in the hands of a deputy, of
competent abilities, for whom he will be responsible.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SHORT.

Treasury Department, Aug. 29, 1790.

Sir :

You are already apprised of the loan which was commenced
in the United Netherlands, by Messrs. Wilhelm and Jan Willink
and Nicholas and Jacob Yan Staphorst and Hubbard, with a
view on their part to the service of the United States, and that

38 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 33.

•

the same has been submitted to our government for their accept-
ance. On' due consideration of the circumstances of that loan
and the views with which the above gentlemen have undertaken
it, I have determined, in consequence of power vested in me, to
accept and ratify the same. I have accordingly authorized and
empowered Messrs. AYillinks, Van Staphorsts and Hubbard to
complete and carry the said loan into full effect.

My present object is to inform you, that I have destined a
million and a half of florins, as soon as that sum shall be received
by the above gentlemen on account of that loan, as a payment
through you to France, and I have given them directions accord-
ingly. It is my wish that you take the earliest opportunity to
inform yourself with certainty that they are in cash from the loan
to pay your drafts, and that you then proceed to possess your-
self of the funds and to make payment. You will, no doubt,
avail the United States of all proper advantages in making the
negotiation of the above sum which the course of exchange be-
tween Paris and Amsterdam will admit. It is probable that bills
will command a premium that will more than indemnify our
treasury for the charges of the loan,- so far as the amount of this
payment to France. It may be proper, on this occasion, that you
express the satisfaction which the United States feel in giving
an earnest of their sincere desire and intention to discharge their
pecuniary obligations to France. Eeferring you to the Secretary
of State for instructions with regard to the timing the intended
payment,

I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SHORT.

Treasury Department, Sept. 1st, 1790.

Sir :

Two Acts of the Legislature, of the fourth and twelfth of
August, of which I inclose you copies, authenticated according
to law, empower the President to cause to be borrowed on their

JEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 39

behalf fourteen millions of dollars, subject to certain restrictions
and qualifications, to be applied in payment of such part of our
foreign debt as shall have become due, and to a new modification
of the remainder, if it can be effected upon terms beneficial to
the United States. The execution of this authority he has com-
mitted immediately to me, and ultimately through me to you ;
except as to three millions of florins, part of the above sum, of
which, as you are informed, a loan has been anticipated by
Messrs. Willinks, Yan Staphorsts and Hubbard, and of which a
confirmation, with correspondent powers, has been sent directly
:o them. Among the documents which accompany this letter
you will find a copy of the commission from the President to me,
and a power founded on it from me to you.

It remains for me to give you some indications for your gov-
ernment, conformable to the general tenor of the instructions
which I have received from the President, and of which I trans-
mit a copy ; premising that it is understood, between the Secre-
tary of State and myself, that you are to proceed to Amsterdam
without delay, and to continue there, in the first instance, for a
term not less than three months.

A primary and principal object of your attention will be, to
acquire as exact knowledge as may be of the footing upon which
the different foreign powers who borrow in Holland have usu-
ally obtained their loans, since the commencement of our inde-
pendence, and upon which they at present obtain them ; the
prices of foreign stock in the Dutch market, including our own ;
the state of our credit compared with that of other nations ; the
extent and the conditions to and upon which we shall be likely
to borrow in case of war between England and Spain, and in the
alternative of our being ourselves at peace or war ; the principal
houses and brokers concerned in the negotiations of foreign
loans ; their characters ; comparative solidity and influence with
the money-lenders; the terms upon which their agency is af-
forded to their employers; the manner in which those whom we
have heretofore employed are understood to have conducted
themselves in relation to our interest and credit ; and particu-
larly their solidity and influence with the money-lenders.

40 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 3$

Most if not all these inquiries will be immediately serviceable
to you. They will all be productive of information useful to my
department ; and I will therefore thank you for successive com-
munications of the result.

One consequence of them to you will be, that they will ena-
ble you to judge whether our confidence in our former commis-
sioners or agents ought to be continued, or withdrawn in order
to the substitution of others ; or, if continued, whether the terms
of their agency may not be meliorated ; or whether, with their
consent, some other house or houses may not be combined with
them, with an increase of credit and resource to us.

These, as you will be sensible, are delicate points. They are,
however, left to your prudence and discretion, according as facts
shall be ascertained to you.

I shall only remark, that changes of public servants ought
never to be made but for cogent reasons. If lightly made, they
are not only chargeable with injustice and are a symptom of
fickleness in the public counsels, but they destroy the motives to
good conduct, and, in money concerns especially, are apt to beget
a disposition to make the most of possession while it lasts. Cir-
cumspection in the present case is also recommended by the
consideration that those whom we have heretofore trusted risked
themselves and their fortunes upon our affairs, when the doing it
was not without serious hazard. This is a reason for permitting
them to reap the benefits of our more prosperous days, if they
have been faithful and are adequate to the trust. A further
reason is, that they are now deeply interested in our funds, and
consequently, it is presumable, in our credit. Competition and
variance once existed between the house of Willinks and that of
the Van Staphorsts ; but these appear some time since to have
been compromised. The latter have most merit for early exer-
tions, the former are said to be most solid. Their union is desi-
rable for the greater security it affords.

Suggestions of this nature are not dictated by any distrust of
the fidelity or good conduct of our former commissioners. As
far as I know, they deserve well of us. My object is, in entering
upon a new stage of our affairs, to have the ground over which

jEt.33.] CABINET PAPERS. 41

we have passed well examined, that we may the better judge
whether to continue or alter our course.

In the consideration of our foreign debt, it naturally divides
itself into two parts ; that which is now payable, and that which
will be payable hereafter. The first we are bound to discharge
as soon as may be, and upon the best terms we can. The last
we are not bound to discharge but as the times of payment
elapse, and therefore are not called upon to do it unless some
positive advantage accrues from it to ourselves. This view of
the matter governs the instructions of the President to me,
which, of course, regulate mine to you.

You are accordingly to borrow, on the best terms which shall he
found practicable, within the limitations prescribed by law, such
sum or sums as shall be sufficient to discharge as well all in-
stalments or parts of the principal of the foreign debt, which
now are due or shall become payable to the end of the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, as all interest and
arrears of interest which now are or shall become due in respect
to the said debt to the same end of the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-one. But you shall not extend the amount
of the loans which you shall make or cause to be made beyond
the sum which shall be requisite for that purpose, unless it can
be done upon terms more advantageous to the United States than
those upon which the residue of the said debt shall stand
or be.

And in order that you may judge what will be due to the
end of the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, I
refer you to the papers marked A and B, which contain state-
ments of principal and arrears of interest of our foreign loans to
that period ; and shall, by the next opportunity, send you a copy
of the contracts respecting them, from which you will derive a
more accurate knowledge of their terms.

You will perceive, by the Act which authorizes the loan for
paying off the foreign debt, that there is no other restriction as
to the terms except that, in the contracts to be made, the United
States shall be left at liberty to reimburse the sum borrowed,
within a period not exceeding fifteen years. As this seems to be

42 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 33.

the usual period for the reimbursement of moneys borrowed in
Holland, that restriction can constitute no embarrassment.

In the second Act there is no restriction as to time of repay-
ment, but there is one as to the rate of interest, which must not
exceed five per cent. This, however, I consider as compatible
with the allowance of those premiums, commissions and other
charges which are customary in ordinary times ; and which, I am
informed, are, in the aggregate, about four and a half per cent.
But the allowance of unusual or extraordinary premiums to
obtain loans upon a nominal interest of five per cent., as well
because it is a pernicious mode of borrowing as because it would
be an invasion of the law, is inadmissible.

If war should continue or become more general in Europe, it
is to be apprehended that the demand for money will raise its
price upon us, and that loans will not be practicable upon so good
terms as in time of peace. The situation of this country, too,
authorizes us to expect that as our resources become more un-
folded and better understood, we shall be able to borrow upon
easier terms than we have at any time heretofore done. On both
these accounts it would be very desirable, while we did not
oblige ourselves to reimburse the principal borrowed in less than
fifteen years, commencing at the end of ten, that we could stipu-
late for a right of reimbursing it sooner, that is to say, either
upon giving notice of our intention to do it for a limited time
beforehand, or at the end of a short period, say five years. I
should consider a stipulation of this kind as a valuable ingredient
in your contracts.

I have intimated above the inexpediency of extraordinary
premiums to purchase a nominal low rate of interest. Against
this error I would particularly guard you. It is sacrificing a real
future interest to an appearance, at best, to temporary accommo-
dation. A higher rate of interest upon a sum actually received,
is preferable to a lower rate upon a nominal sum, with large
deductions in the first instance, or considerable premiums after-
wards ; this will be more especially the case if we can reserve a
right to repay when we please or after a short period ; as we
may reasonably contemplate, with the return of peace, a fall of
interest.

iET. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 43

But every thing of this kind is, after all, matter of calcula-
tion, and to be tested by the evidence of figures. I can only,
therefore, mean to give you a caution, referring you to that test,
and intimating to you this general principle, that the name of a
low interest ought not to betray us into giving more for it in the
shape of premium or discount than it is worth, and that, as we
shall borrow at a time when circumstances will render interest
high, we had better pay that interest on actual value received,
than a lower one on a fictitious value, or for future and exag-
gerated compensations ; reserving, as far as it can be done, the
right of paying off at pleasure, or at an early period. The future
fall of interest will, in the first case, turn to our advantage, in
the last, to our disadvantage.

You will not pass unnoticed the circumstance that the laws
contain actual appropriations of very adequate funds for the
payment of interest upon the sums you shall borrow. The first
act, indeed, after reserving six hundred thousand dollars for the
support of government, gives a priority in payment to Ihe
foreign debt out of revenues which are calculated upon the esti-
mate of a much larger product. You may confidently assert
that the duties hitherto have produced at the rate of one million
eight hundred thousand dollars ; which alone would leave twelve
hundred thousand dollars, as the fund out of which the interest
on your loans would be payable. But the augmentations which
have been made in the rates are computed to be capable of
affording an addition of eight hundred thousand dollars ; and I
believe the computation to be well founded.

You will also, no doubt, make a proper use in your commu-
nications of the actual situation and future prospects of this
country. The economical scale of our establishments, civil and
military; the comparative smallness of our debt; the reliance
which may be had on the stability of our pecuniary arrange-
ments once made, from the nature of our government in respect
to the mutual checks inherent in its organization ; the rapid pro-
gression of population and resources to which we may look for-
ward; the actual and probable emigrations occasioned by the
troubled state of Europe ; the hope that we shall continue in

44 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

peace, while other powers are accumulating their debts by new
wars ; the very favorable situation in which we shall find our-
selves at the end of a general war in Europe, if we avoid parti-
cipating in it, &c., &c. These are topics which ought to have
weight in our favor, and, within due limits, may be urged with
force and assurance.

With regard to that part of the debt which does not become
payable till after the year one thousand seven hundred and nine-
ty-one, you will have observed that nothing is to be done by you
in respect to it, unless it can be done upon terms of advantage to
the United States. However cordial our disposition to come to
the pecuniary aid of France in her present affecting and embar-
rassed condition, in this early stage of our finances we could not
in prudence volunteer payments not due by the terms of the
contract, especially, too, by the expedient of new foreign loans,
unless it should be attended with some circumstance of advantage
in the operation to ourselves. By this I understand a lower rate
of interest.

For according to my speculations on the probable rate of ex-
change between this country, France, and Holland, and between
Holland and France for some years to come, I deem it better
(whether our payments proceed directly from hence, or circuit-
ously through Holland) to have to pay a given sum to France,
than an equal sum to Holland.

The charges too upon the new loans will be to be taken into
the account, and an indemnity for them included in the terms of
the operation. Calculating only upon the ordinary ones, it does
not appear to me that it would be the interest of the United
States to change the form of this debt, unless the rate of interest
on the new loans did not exceed four per cent. And I own that,
in the present aspect of affairs, I see no ground to expect that
loans will be obtained at so low a rate.

If the thing should be possible, it must be on the score of
some collateral advantages to the lenders ; such, for instance, as
their being permitted to pay a part in the effects or stock of France,
as was contemplated in the last negotiations. Whether any ar-
rangement of this nature will be a desirable accommodation to

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 45

France ; whether persons of real capital, who would not in the
execution be obliged to use means prejudicial to the credit of the
United States, would be willing to embark in such a plan ;
whether it would prove an obstacle to other loans which we may
have occasion to make for other purposes ; are circumstances es-
sential in determining its eligibility, which cannot be known to
me, and can only be accurately judged of by one on the spot.

I suggest them as hints to you. In exploring or feeling the
ground, you will recollect that propositions of such a nature
ought not to come from us. If the thing should be capable of
being placed upon a footing conducive to our interests, we ought
only to appear to sanction what other parties desire of us. And
we should in no event make any movement that may injure our
reputation, or place us in the light of a people desirous of mak-
ing hard bargains at the expense of friends.

Neither can I authorize you to conclude any general arrange-
ment of this nature, without a previous communication of it to
me, to be submitted to the consideration of the President ; there
being a separate instruction from him to me, that no loan shall
be opened for more than a million of dollars, and that no new
loan shall be undertaken until the preceding one shall have been
announced to him, and shall have received his sanction.

This limitation, therefore, in all your proceedings, you will
of course attend to, and you will perceive the utility of making
the earliest communication of every loan you shall set on foot,
in order that you may know the determination of the President be-
fore its completion, and be prepared in time to commence another.

It has been suggested that loans may be made with advan-
tage in certain parts of Italy. I do not count on this resource,
but I shall be glad to know how far, from inquiry, it shall appear
to be an eligible field for an experiment.

With regard to the application of the moneys to be borrowed,
you will, from* time to time, receive special directions.

The foregoing are the only observations which the time I
have will permit me to make. They contain general indications
of the course you are to pursue ; the rest must be left to your
judgment, circumspection, and delicacy. I doubt not you will

46 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

be duly impressed with, the importance of the trust ; how much
the interest and reputation of our government are concerned in
its proper execution. And I feel a confidence that they will not
suffer in your hands.

P. S. I send for your information a copy of my letter to
Messrs. Willinks & Co., by which you will perceive the footing
on which the provisional loan of three millions of florins is placed.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

Treasury Department, Sept. 10th, 1790.

Sm:

The public service appearing to require the early establish-
ment of the boats or cutters for the protection of the revenue,
agreeably to the provision made by the legislature in their last
session, I do myself the honor respectfully to submit to you what
has occurred upon that subject.

Cutters from forty to fifty feet keel being deemed by ex-
perienced persons the most eligible, my inquiries have been
directed to the terms on which a boat of that size may be built
in the port of New- York. From the information received, there
is reason to expect that ten of those vessels may be procured for
the medium sum of one thousand dollars each, provided due
care and economy are used in their equipment. To avoid dissatis-
faction, it may appear best to build them in different ports of the
Union. One may be procured in New Hampshire, and another in
Massachusetts, for the coast eastward of Cape Cod ; one in Connecti-
cut, for Long Island Sound and the coast adjacent to Ehode Island ;
one in New- York, for the bays of New-York and -4-mboy, and the
coast adjacent to Sandy Hook ; one in Philadelphia, for the bay of
Delaware, and the coast adjacent to Capes May and Henlopen ;
one in Norfolk, and another in Baltimore, for Chesapeake Bay
and the coasts adjacent to it; one in North Carolina, for the

Mt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 47

sounds and coasts of that State ; one at Charleston, for the bays
and coasts of South Carolina, and one at Savannah, for the coast
of Georgia.

Should this arrangement meet your approbation, the utility
of the establishment leads me to request your permission to
carry it into immediate execution ; or that you will be pleased
to direct such other as may appear to you preferable.

There not being sufficient light with regard to characters for
officering the cutters destined for the Eastern coasts, particularly
Massachusetts, I have written private letters to the collectors of
Boston and Portsmouth, on the subject. When their answers
arrive, the persons who appear to have most in their favor, from
New- York inclusively, eastward, shall be noted for your de-
terminations.

The latest arrivals from Europe bring intelligence of the con-
tinuance and increase of warlike preparations by the Courts of
Great Britain and Spain, though no declaration of war was known
in the seaports of the latter on the 26th of July.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, Sept. 15, 1790.

The urgent avocations in which I have been engaged, to-
wards putting in a train of execution the laws of the last session
affecting my department, and a desire of reflecting maturely,
and giving the reasons for the result of my reflections fully,
have caused me to delay longer than I wished the answer to the
questions with which you honored me, and I hope will excuse
the delay.

The judgments formed, in particular cases, are almost always
connected with a general train of ideas in respect to some more
comprehensive principles or relations ; and I had thought it ad-
visable to lay that train before you, for the better explanation
of the grounds of the opinions I now give, or may hereafter

48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 33.

have occasion to give, on the like subjects, in obedience to your
commands.

I feel no small regret in troubling you with the perusal of so
voluminous a discussion; but as I thought it would be satis-
factory to you to have the reasons of the opinions you re-
quired fully submitted to your consideration, I conceived it to be
more consistent with my duty to risk some intrusion on your
time, than to withhold any consideration that appeared to me of
weight enough to enter into the determination.

The President of the United States.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, Sept. 15, 1790.

Answer to Questions proposed by the President of the United States to

the Secretary of the Treasury.

Question the First. — " What should be the answer of the
Executive of the United States to Lord Dorchester, in case he
should apply for permission to march troops through the terri-
tory of said States, from Detroit to the Mississippi ?"

Answer. — In order to a right judgment of what ought to be
done in such case, it may be of use previously to consider the
following points :

First. — Whether there be a right to refuse or consent, as shall
be thought most for the interest of the United States.

Secondly. — The consequences to be expected from refusal or
consent.

Thirdly. — The motives to the one or to the other.

As to the first point, if it were to be determined upon princi-
ple only, without regard to precedents or opinions, there would
seem to be no room for hesitation about the right to refuse. The
exclusive jurisdiction which every independent nation has over
its own territory, appears to involve in it the right of prohibit-
ing to all others the use of that territory in any way disagree-

Mr. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 49

able to itself, and more especially for any purpose of war, which
always implies a degree of danger and inconvenience, with the
exception only of cases of necessity.

And if the United States were in a condition to do it with-
out material hazard, there would be strong inducements to their
adopting it as a general rule never to grant a passage for a vol-
untary expedition of one power against another, unless obliged
to it by treaty.

But the present situation of the United States is too little
favorable to encountering hazards, to authorize attempts to es-
tablish rules, however eligible in themselves, which are repug-
nant to the received maxims or usages of nations.

It is therefore necessary to inquire what those maxims or
usages enjoin in the case suggested.

With regard to usage, it has been far from uniform. There
are various instances in ancient and modern times of similar per-
missions being demanded — many, in which they have been
granted ; others in which they have been refused, and the re-
fusal acquiesced in ; but perhaps more in which, when refused,
a passage has been forced, and the doing of it has often been
deemed justifiable.

Opinions are not more harmonious. Among those who may
be considered as authorities on such subjects, PufYendorf and
Barbeyrac confine within narrow limits the right of passage
through neutral territories ; while Grotius and Yatel, particu-
larly the former, allow to it greater latitude. PufYendorf treats
it not as a natural right, but as derived from compact or conces-
sion ; especially when the enemy of a neighboring state desires
leave to march troops through a neutral country against its
neighbor. For it seems (says he) to be a part of the duty which
we owe to our neighbors, especially such as have been kind and
friendly, not to suffer any hostile power to march through our
country to their prejudice, provided ive can hinder the design with
no great inconvenience to ourselves. And as it may have a tendency
to make our own country the theatre of the war (since the power
intended to be attacked may justifiably march within our limits
to meet the approaching enemy), he concludes that it is the safest
D 4

50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

Avay of acting in such case, if we can do it without any considerable
prejudice to our own affairs, to deny the enemy passage, and actu-
ally to oppose him if he endeavors to force it without our consent.
But if we are either too weak to hinder his progress, or must on
this score engage in a dangerous war, he admits that the plea of
necessity will fairly justify us to our neighbor.

Examples, he adds, have little force on the decision of the
question. For, generally, as people have been stronger or
weaker, they have required passage with modesty or with confi-
dence, and have in like manner granted or refused it to others.*

Barbeyrac, in his Commentary on Grotius, is still stronger
against the right of passage.^ He affirms that, even though we
have nothing to apprehend from those who desire a passage, we
are not therefore obliged in rigor to grant it. It necessarily fol-
lows, says he, from the right of property, that the proprietor
may refuse another the use of his goods. Humanity, indeed,
requires that he should grant that use to those who stand in
need of it, when it can be done without any considerable incon-
venience to himself; but if he even then refuses it, though he
transgresses his duty, he does no wrong, properly so called, ex-
cept they are in extreme necessity, which is superior to all ordinary
rules. Thus far, and no further, extends the reserve with which
it is supposed the establishment of property is accompanied.

Grotius, on the other hand, expresses himself thus \\ A free
passage ought to be granted to persons where just occasion shall
require, over any lands, or rivers, or such parts of the sea as be-
long to any nation ; and, after enumerating several examples in
support of his position, he concludes that the middle opinion is
best ; to wit, that the liberty of passing ought first to be demand-
ed, and if denied, may be claimed by force. Neither, says he,
can it be reasonably objected that there may be suspicion of dan-
ger from the passing of a multitude ; for one man's right is not
diminished by another man's fear. Nor is the fear of provoking
that prince against whom he that desires to pass is engaged in a

* Puffendorf s Laws of Nature and Nations, pages 239, 240.

t Note 1 on Book II. Chap. II. % xiii.

X Rights of War and Peace, Book II. Chap. II. % xiii. Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4.

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 51

just war, a sufficient reason for refusing him passage. Nor is it
any more an excuse that he may pass another way, for this is
what every body may equally allege, and so this right by
passing would be entirely destroyed. But it is enough that the
passage be requested, without any fraud or ill design, by the
nearest and most convenient way. If indeed, he who desires to
pass undertakes an unjust war, or if he brings people who are my
enemies along with him, I may deny him a passage ; for in this
case I have a right to meet and oppose him, even in his own
land, and to intercept his march. Thus it would seem to be the
opinion of Grotius, that a party engaged in a just war has a
right, of course, to a passage through a neutral territory, which
can scarcely, if at all, be denied him, even on the score of danger
or inconvenience to the party required to grant it.

But Yatel, perhaps the most accurate and approved of the
writers on the laws of nations, preserves a mean between these*
different opinions. This is the sum of what he advances : " That
an innocent passage is due to all nations with whom a state is at
peace, for troops equally with individuals, and to annoy as well
as to avoid an enemy. That the party asking and the party
asked are both, in different degrees, judges of the question when
innocent f That where the party asked has good reasons for refus-
ing, he is not under any obligation to grant, and in doubtful cases
his judgment ought to be definitive; but in evident ones, or those
in which the harmlessness of the passage is manifest, the party
asking may, in the last resort, judge for himself, and after de-
mand and refusal may force his way. That nevertheless, as it is
very difficult for the passage of a powerful army to be absolutely
innocent, and still more difficult for its innocence to be apparent,
a refusal ought to be submitted to, except in those very rare cases
when it can be shown in the most palpable manner that the
passage required is absolutely without danger or inconvenience.
And lastly, that this right of passage is only due in a war not
materially unjust.

Perhaps the only inference to be drawn from all this is,

* Book III. Chap. VII. % 119, 120, 121, 122, 123.

52 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

that there exists in the practice of nations and the dogmas of
political writers a certain vague pretension to a right of passage
in particular cases, and according to circumstances, which is
sufficient to afford to the strong a pretext for claiming and exer-
cising it when it suits their interests, and to render it always
dangerous to the weak to refuse, and sometimes not less so to
grant it.

It is, nevertheless, a proper inquiry, whether a refusal could
be placed on such ground as would give a reasonable cause of
umbrage to the party refused, and as in the eye of the world
would justify it.

Against the propriety of a refusal are the following circum-
stances ; that there is no connection between us and Spain, which
obliges us to it. That the passage asked will be down rivers,
and for the most part through an uninhabited wilderness ; whence
no injury to our citizens or settlements will be apprehended :
and that the number of troops to be marched, especially consider-
ing the route, will probably not be such, as on their own account,
te be a serious cause of alarm. These circumstances tfiay give
our refusal the complexion of partiality to Spain, and of indispo-
sition towards Britain, which may be represented as a deviation
from the spirit of exact neutrality.

In support of the propriety of a refusal, the following is the
only assignable reason : that it is safer for us, to have two power-
ful, but rival nations, bordering upon our two extremities, than
to have one powerful nation pressing us on both sides, and in
capacity, hereafter, by posts and settlements, to envelop our
whole interior frontier.

The good offices of Spain in the late war ; the danger of the
Seduction of our western inhabitants ; the probable consequences
to the trade of the Atlantic States, are considerations rather to
be contemplated as motives, than alleged as reasons.

The first reason, however, is of a nature to satisfy the mind
of the justice of a refusal ; admitting the authority of the more
moderate opinions, which have been cited. And the danger,
too, upon the supposition of which it is founded, appears to be
obvious enough to vindicate it. in the opinion of the disinterest-

/Et.33.] cabinet papers. 53

ed part of mankind ; little likely as it may be to engage the ac-
quiescence of the party whose wishes would be thwarted by the
refusal. It deserves, notwithstanding, to be noticed on this point,
that the ground of dissent would not result from the thing itself
— that is, the mere passage — but from the nature of the acquisi-
tion, to which it would give facility. This circumstance may
somewhat obscure the clearness of the conclusion, that there is a
perfect right to refuse.

But upon the whole, there does not appear to be room enough
for a scruple about the right, to deter from refusal, if upon ex-
amination it shall be found expedient.

Does the right of consenting to the passage stand upon ground
equally unexceptionable ?

This question Yatel answers in the following manner :*
" When I have no reason to refuse the passage, the party against
whom it is granted has no room for complaint, much less for making
it a pretence for war ; since I did no mo re than what the law of
nations enjoins. Neither has he any right to require that I should
deny the passage, because he is not to hinder me from doing what
I think is agreeable to my duty, and even on occasion when I might
with justice deny the passage, it is allowable in me not to make use of
my right; especially when I should he obliged to support my refusal
by my sword. Who will take upon him to complain of my hav-
ing permitted the war to be carried into his own country, rather
than draw it on myself? It cannot be expected that I should
take up arms in his favor, unless obliged to it by a treaty." And
Puffendorf admits, as has been before noted, that if we are either
too weak to hinder his progress, or must on that score engage in
a dangerous war, the plea of necessity will fairly justify us to our
neighbor.

Nothing need be added to reasoning so perspicuous and con-
vincing. It does not admit of a moment's doubt, as a general
rule, that a neutral state, unfettered by any stipulation, is not
bound to expose itself to a war, merely to shelter a neighbor
from the approaches of its enemy. It remains to examine, if

* Vatel, Book III., Chap. vii.. Section 127.

54 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

there are any circumstances, in onr particular case, capable of
forming an exception to that rule.

It is not to be forgotten that we received from France, in our
late revolution, essential succor, and from Spain valuable coun-
tenance, and some direct aid. It is also to be remembered, that
France is the intimate ally of Spain, and there subsists a connec-
tion by treaty between the former power and the United States.

It might thence be alleged that obligations of gratitude
towards those powers require that we should run some risk,
rather than concur in a thing prejudicial to either of them, and
particularly in favor of that very nation against which they as-
sisted us. And the natural impulse of every good heart will
second the proposition, till reason has taught it that refinements
of this kind are to be indulged with caution in the affairs of
nations.

Gratitude is a word, the very sound of which imposes some-
thing like respect. Where there is even an appearance upon
which the claim to it can be founded, it can seldom be a pleasing
task to dispute that claim. But where a word may become the
basis of a political system, affecting the essential interests of the
state, it is incumbent upon those who have any concern in the
public administration, to appreciate its true import and applica-
tion.

It is necessary, then, to reflect, however painful the reflection,
that gratitude is a duty, a sentiment, which between nations can
rarely have any solid foundation. Gratitude is only due to a
kindness or service, the predominant object of which is the in-
terest or benefit of the party to whom it is performed. Where
the interest or benefit of the party performing is the predomi-
nant cause of it, however there may result a debt, in cases in
which there is not an immediate adequate and reciprocal advan-
tage, there can be no room for the sentiment of gratitude. Where
there is such an advantage, there is then not even a debt. If the
motive to the act, instead of being the benefit of the party to
whom it is done, should be a compound of the interest of the
party doing it and of detriment to some other, of whom he is
the enemy and the rival, there is still less room for so noble and

Mt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 55

refined a sentiment. This analysis will serve as a test of our
true situation, in regard both to France and Spain.

It is not to be doubted, that the part which the courts of
France and Spain took in our quarrel with Great Britain, is to
be attributed, not to an attachment to our independence or liber-
ty, but to a desire of diminishing the power of Great Britain by
severing the British empire. This they considered as an interest
of very great magnitude to them. In this their calculations and
their passions conspired. For this, they united their arms with
ours, and encountered the expenses and perils of war. This has
been accomplished ; the advantages of it are mutual ; and so far
the account is balanced.

In the progress of the war* they lent us money, as necessary
to its success, and during our inability to pay they have for-
borne to press us for it. The money we ought to exert ourselves
to repay with interest, and as well for the loan of it, as for the
forbearance to urge the repayment of the sums which have be-
come due, we ought always to be ready to make proportionate
acknowledgments, and when opportunities shall offer, returns
answerable to the nature of the service.

Let it be added to this, that the conduct of France in the
manner of affording her aid, bore the marks of a liberal policy.
She did not endeavor to extort from us, as the price of it, any
disadvantageous or humiliating concessions. In this respect,
however, she may have been influenced by an enlightened view
of her own interest. She entitled herself to our esteem and
good will. These dispositions towards her ought to be cherished
and cultivated ; but they are very distinct from a spirit of roman-
tic gratitude, calling for sacrifices of our substantial interests,
preferences inconsistent with sound policy, or complaisances in-
compatible with our safety.

The conduct of Spain towards us presents a picture far less
favorable. The direct aid we received from her during the war
was inconsiderable in itself, and still more inconsiderable com-
pared with her faculty of aiding us. She refrained from acknow-

* France has made us one loan since the peace.

56 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 33.

ledging oar independence ; has never acceded to the treaty of
commerce made with France, though a right of doing it was re-
served to her, nor made any other treaty with us ; she has main-
tained possessions within our acknowledged limits without our
consent ; she perseveringly obstructs our sharing in the naviga-
tion of the Mississippi, though it is a privilege essential to us,
and to which we consider ourselves as having an indisputable
title. And perhaps it might be added upon good ground, that
she has not scrupled to intrigue with leading individuals in the
western country, to seduce them from our interests, and to attach
them to her own.

Spain therefore must be regarded, upon the whole, as having
slender claims to peculiar good will from us. There is certainly
nothing that authorizes her to expect we should expose ourselves
to any extraordinary jeopardy for her sake. And to conceive
that any considerations relative to France ought to be extended
to her, would be to set up a doctrine altogether new in politics.
The ally of our ally has no claim, as such, to our friendship.
We may have substantial grounds of dissatisfaction against him,
and act in consequence of them, even to open hostility, without
derogating in any degree from what we owe to our ally.

This is so true, that if a war should really ensue between
Great Britain and Spain, and if the latter should persist in
excluding us from the Mississippi (taking it for granted our
claim to share in its navigation is well founded), there can be no
reasonable ground of doubt that we should be at liberty, if we
thought it our interest, consistently with our present engagements
with France, to join Britain against Spain.

Hoav far it might be expedient to place ourselves in a situa-
tion which, in case France should eventually become a party in
the war, might entangle us in opposite duties on the score of the
stipulated guarantee of her West India possessions, or might have
a tendency to embroil us with her, would be a mere question of
prudential and liberal calculation, which would have nothing to
do with the right of taking side against Spain.

These are truths necessary to be contemplated with freedom,
because it is impossible to foresee what events may spring up, or

iEx. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 57

whither our interests may point ; and it is very important to dis-
tinguish with accuracy how far we are bound, and where we are
free.

However vague the obligations of gratitude may be between
nations, those of good faith are precise and determinate. Within
their true limits, they can hardly be held too sacred. But by
exaggerating them, or giving them a fanciful extension, they
would be in danger of losing their just force. This would be
converting them into fetters, which a nation would ere long be-
come impatient to break, as consistent neither with its prosperity
nor its safety. Hence, while it is desirable to maintain 'with
fidelity our engagements to France, it is advisable, on all occa-
sions, to be aware that they oblige us to nothing towards Spain.

From this view of the subject, there does not appear any cir-
cumstance in our case capable of forming an exception to the
general rule; and, as it is certain that there can hardly be a
situation less adapted to war than that in which we now find
ourselves, we can, with the greatest sincerity, offer the most sat-
isfactory excuse to Spain for not withholding our consent, if our
own interests do not decide us to a contrary course.

The conclusion from Avhat has been said is, that there is a
right either to refuse or consent, as shall be judged for the
interest of the United States ; though the right to consent is less
questionable than the right to refuse.

The consequences to be expected from refusal or consent
present themselves next to consideration. Those of consent
shall be first examined.

An increase of the means of annoying us in the same hands
is a certain ill consequence of the acquisition of the Floriclas and
Louisiana by the British. This will result not only from conti-
guity to a greater part of our territory, but from the increased
facility of acquiring an undivided influence over all the Indian
tribes inhabiting within the borders of the United States.

Additional danger of the dismemberment of the western
country is another ill consequence to be apprehended from that
acquisition. This will arise as well from the greater power of
annoying us, as from the different policy which it is likely would

58 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

be pursued by that nation, if in possession of the key to the only
outlet for the productions of that country. Instead of shutting,
they would probably open the door to its inhabitants, and by
conciliating their good will on the one hand, and making them
sensible on the other of their dependence on them for the con-
tinuance of so essential an advantage, they might hold out to
them the most powerful temptation to a desertion of their con-
nection with the rest of the United States. The avarice and
ambition of individuals may be made to co-operate in favor of
those views.

A third ill consequence of that acquisition would be, material
injury, in time to come, to the commerce of the Atlantic States.
By rendering New Orleans the emporium of the products of the
western country, Britain would, at a period not very distant,
have little occasion for supplies of provisions for their islands
from the Atlantic States ; and for their European market they
would derive from the same source copious supplies of tobacco
and other articles now furnished by the Southern States : whence
a great diminution of the motives to establish liberal terms of
commercial intercourse with the United States collectively.

These consequences are all expressed or implied in the form
of the question stated by the President. And as far as our con-
sent can be supposed likely to have influence upon the event,
they constitute powerful objections to giving it.

If even it should be taken for granted that our consent or
refusal would have no influence either wav, it would not even
then cease to be disagreeable to concur in a thing apparently so
inauspicious to our interests. And it deserves attention, that our
concurrency might expose us to the imputation either of want of
foresight to discover a danger, or of vigor to withstand it.

But there is almost always in such cases a comparison of
evils ; and the point of prudence is, to make choice of that course
which threatens the fewest or the least, or sometimes the least
certain. The consequences of refusal are therefore to be weighed
against those of consent.

It seems to be a matter taken for granted by the writers upon
the subject, that a refusal ought to be accompanied with a resolu-

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 59

tion to support it, if necessary, by the sword ; or in other words,
to oppose the passage, if attempted to be forced, or to resent the
injury, if circumstances should not permit an effectual opposition.
This, indeed, is implied in the nature of the thing ; for to what
purpose refuse, unless it be intended to make good the refusal ?
or how avoid disgrace, if our territories are suffered to be vio-
lated with impunity, after a formal and deliberate prohibition of
passage ?

There are cases in which a nation may, without ignominy,
wink at an infraction of its rights ; but this does not appear to
be one of them. After having been asked its permission and
having refused it, the presumption will be that it has estimated
the consequences, calculated its means, and is prepared to assert
and uphold its rights. If the contrary of this should turn out to
be its conduct, it must bring itself into contempt for inviting in-
sult which it was unable to repel, and manifesting ill will towards
a power which it durst not resist. As, on the one hand, there
cannot be conceived to be a greater outrage than to pass through
our country, in defiance of our declared disapprobation ; so, on
the other, there cannot be a greater humiliation than to submit
to it.

The consequence therefore of refusal, if not effectual, must be
absolute disgrace or immediate war. This appears, at least, to be
the alternative.

Whether a refusal would have the desired effect, is at best
problematical. The presumption, perhaps, is, that Great Britain
will have adverted to the possibility of it ; and if, under the
uncertainty of what would be our conduct, she should still have
resolved on prosecuting the enterprise through our territory, that
she will at the same time have resolved, either to ask no ques-
tions, or to disregard our dissent. It is not unlikely that the
reasoning of the British cabinet will have been to this effect: —
If the United States have no predilection for Spain, or if their
views of their own interest are not opposed to the acquisition we
meditate, they will not withhold their consent; if either the one
or the other be the case, it ought to be determined beforehand,
whether their enmity be a greater evil, than the projected acqui-

60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 33.

sition a good ; and if we do not choose to renounce the one, we
must be prepared to meet the other.

A further ill consequence of the refusal, if ineffectual, not
wholly destitute of weight, is this, that Great Britain would then
think herself under less obligation to keep measures with us, and
would feel herself more at liberty to employ every engine in her
power to make her acquisition as prejudicial to us as possible ;
whereas, if no impediment should be thrown in the way by us,
more good humor may beget greater moderation, and, in the
progress of things, concessions securing us may be made, as the
price of our future neutrality. An exrjlicit recognition of our
right to navigate the Mississippi to and from the ocean, with the
possession of New Orleans, would greatly mitigate the causes of
apprehension from the conquest of the Floridas by the British.

The consequences of refusal or consent constitute leading
motives to the one or to the other ; which now claim a more
particular discussion.

It has been seen that the ill effects to be apprehended from
the conquest of the Spanish territories in our neighborhood are,
an increase of the means whereby we may be hereafter annoyed,
and of the danger of the separation of the western country from
the rest of the Union ; and a future interference with the trade
of the Atlantic States, in a manner, too, not conducive to the
general weal.

As far as there is a prospect that a refusal would be an im-
pediment to the enterprise, the considerations which have been
mentioned afford the strongest inducements to it. But if that
effect of it be doubtful, the force of these inducements is propor-
tionably diminished ; if improbable, it nearly ceases. The pros-
pect in this case would be, that a refusal would aggravate instead
of preventing the evil it was intended to obviate. And it
must be acknowledged that the success of it is, at least, very
doubtful.

The consideration that our assent may be construed into want
of foresight or want of vigor, though not to be disregarded, would
not be sufficient to justify our risking a war in our present situa-
tion. The cogent reasons we have to avoid a war are too obvi-

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 61

ous and intelligible, not to furnish an explanation of and an
apology for our conduct in this respect.

Whatever may be the calculations with regard to the proba-
ble effect of a refusal, it ought to be predicated upon the sup-
position that it may not be regarded, and accompanied with a
determination to act as a proper attention to national dignity
would in such an event dictat^. This would be to make war.

For it is a sound maxim, that a state had better hazard any
calamities than submit tamely to absolute disgrace.

Now it is manifest, that a government scarcely ever had
stronger motives to avoid war, than that of the United States at
the present juncture. They have much to dread from war;
much to expect from peace ; something to hope from negotiation,
in case of a rupture between Britain and Spain.

We are but just recovering from the effects of a long, ardu-
ous, and exhausting war. The people but just begin to realize the
sweets of repose. We are vulnerable both by water and land ;
without either fleet or army. We have a considerable debt in
proportion to the resources which the state of things permits the
government to command. Measures have been recently entered
upon for the restoration of credit, which a war could hardly fail
to disconcert, and which, if disturbed, would be fatal to the
means of prosecuting it. Our national government is in its in-
fancy. The habits and dispositions of our people are ill suited
to those liberal contributions to the treasury, which a war would
necessarily exact. There are causes which render war in this
country more expensive, and consequently more difficult to be
carried on, than in any other. There is a general disinclination
to it in all classes. The theories of the speculative, and the feel-
ings of all, are opposed to it. The support of public opinion
(perhaps more essential to our government than to any other)
could only be looked for in a war evidently resulting from

necessity.

These are general reasons against going into war. There are
others, of a more particular kind. To the people at large the
quarrel would be apt to have the appearance of having originated
in a desire of shielding Spain from the arms of Britain. There

62 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

are several classes of men to whom this idea would not be agree-
able, especially if the Dutch were understood to be in conjunction
with the British. All those who were not friendly to our late
Revolution would certainly dislike it. Most of the descendants
of the Dutch would be unfriendly to it. And let it not be over-
looked, that there is still a considerable proportion of those who
were firm friends to the Revolution, who retain prepossessions in
favor of Englishmen, and prejudices against Spaniards.

In a popular government especially, however prejudices like
these may be regretted, they are not to be excluded from politi-
cal calculations.

It ought also to be taken into the account, that by placing
ourselves at this time in a situation to go' to war against Great
Britain, we embark with the weakest party — with a total un-
certainty what accession of strength may be gained — and with-
out making any terms with regard either to succor, indemnity,
or compensation.

France is the only weight which can be thrown into the
scale, capable of producing an equilibrium. But her accession,
however probable, ought not to be deemed absolutely certain.
The predominant party there may choose to avoid war as danger-
ous to their own power. And if even obstacles should not arise
from that quarter, it cannot be foreseen to what extent France
will be in condition to make efforts. The great body of malcon-
tents comprehending a large proportion of the most wealthy and
formerly the most influential class — the prodigious innovations
which have been made — the general and excessive fermentation
which has been excited in the minds of the people — the charac-
ter of the prince, or the nature of the government likely to be
instituted, as far as can be judged prior to an experiment — do
not prognosticate much order or vigor in the affairs of that coun-
try for a considerable period to come.

It is possible, indeed, that the enthusiasm which the transi-
tion from slavery to liberty may inspire, may be a substitute for
the energy of a good administration, and the spring of great ex-
ertions. But the ebullitions of enthusiasm must ever be a pre-
carious reliance. And it is quite as possible that the greatness,

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 63

and perhaps immaturity, of that transition, may prolong licen-
tiousness and disorder. Calculations of what may happen in
France must be unusually fallible, not merely from the yet un-
settled state of things in that kingdom, but from the extreme
violence of the change which has been wrought in the situation
of the people.

These considerations are additional admonitions to avoid, as
far as possible, any step that may embroil us with Great Britain.
It seems evidently our true policy to cultivate neutralit}^. This,
at least, is the ground on which we ought to stand, until we can
see more of the scene, and can have secured the means of chano--
ing it with advantage.

We have objects which, in such a conjuncture, are not to be
neglected. The Western posts, on one side, and the navigation
of the Mississippi, on the other, call for a vigilant attention to
what is going on. They are both of importance. The securing
of the latter may be regarded in its consequences as essential to
the unity of the empire.

But it is not impossible, if war takes place, that by a judicious
attention to favorable moments, we may accomplish both by ne-
gotiation. The moment, however, we became committed on
either side, the advantages of our position for negotiation would
be gone. They would even be gone in respect to the party with
whom we were in co-operation ; for being once in the war, we
could not make terms as the condition of entering into it.

Though it may be uncertain how long we shall be permitted
to preserve our neutrality, that is not a sufficient reason for de-
parting from it voluntarily. It is possible we may be permitted
to persist in it throughout. And if we must renounce it, it is
better it should be from necessity than choice ; at least till we
see a prospect of renouncing with safety and profit. If the gov-
ernment is forced into a war, the cheerful support of the people
may be counted upon. If it brings it upon itself, it will have to
struggle with their displeasure and reluctance. This difference
alone is immense.

The desire of manifesting amity to Spain, from the supposi-
tion that our permanent interest is concerned in cementing an

64 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

intimate connection with France and Spain, ought to have no
influence in the case. Admitting the existence of such an in-
terest, it ought not to hurry us into premature hazards. If it
should finally induce us to become a party, it will be time
enough when France has become such, and after we shall have
adjusted the condition upon which we are to engage.

But the reality of such an interest is a thing about which the
best and the ablest men of this country are far from being agreed.
There are of this number, who, if the United States were at per-
fect liberty, would prefer an intimate connection between them
and Great Britain as most conducive to their security and advan-
tage ; and who are of opinion that it will be well to cultivate
friendship between that country and this, to the utmost extent
which is reconcilable with the faith of existing engagements :
while the most general opinion is, that it is our true policy, to
steer as clear as possible of all foreign connection, other than

commercial and in this resjDect to cultivate intercourse

with all the world on the broadest basis of reciprocal privilege.

An attentive consideration of the vicissitudes which have
attended the friendships of nations, except in a very few in-
stances, from very peculiar circumstances, gives little countenance
to systems which proceed on the supposition of a permanent
interest to prefer a particular connection. The position of the
United States, detached as they are from Europe, admonishes
them to unusual circumspection on that point. The same posi-
tion, as far as it has relation to the possessions of European
powers in their vicinity, strengthens the admonition.

Let it be supposed that Spain retains her possessions on our
right, and persists in the policy she has hitherto pursued, without
the slightest symptom of relaxation, of barring the Mississippi
against us ; where must this end, and at a period not very dis-
tant? Infallibly in a war with Spain, or separation of the
"Western Country. This country must have an outlet for its'
commodities. This is essential to its prosperity, and if not pro-
cured to it by the United States, must be had at the expense of
the connection with them. A war with Spain, when our affairs
will have acquired greater consistency and order, will certainly

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 65

be to be preferred to such an alternative. In an event of this
sort, we should naturally seek aid from Great Britain. This
would probably involve France on the opposite side, and effect a
revolution in the state of our foreign politics.

In regard to the possessions of Great Britain on our left, it is
at least problematical, whether the acquisition of them will ever
be desirable to the United States. It is tertain that they are in
no shape essential to our prosperity. Except, therefore, the
detention of our Western posts, (an object, too, of far less conse-
quence than the navigation of the Mississippi,) there appears no
necessary source of future collision with that power.

This view of the subject manifests that we may have a more
urgent interest to differ with Spain, than with Britain. And that
conclusion will become the stronger, if it be admitted, that when
we are able to make good our pretensions, we ought not to leave
in the possession of any foreign power the territories at the mouth
of the Mississippi; which are to be regarded as the key to it.

While considerations of this nature ought not to weaken the
sense which our Government ought to have of any obligations
which good faith shall fairly impose, they ought to inspire
caution in adopting a system, which may approximate us too
nearly to certain powers, and place us at too great a distance from
others. Indeed every system of this kind is liable to the objec-
tion, that it has a tendency to give a wrong bias to the Counsels
of a Nation, and sometimes to make its own interest subservient
to that of another.

If the immediate cause of the impending war between
Britain and Spain be considered, there cannot be drawn from
thence any inducements for our favoring Spain. It is difficult to
admit the reasonableness or justice of the pretensions on her
part, which occasions the transactions complained of by Great
Britain, and certainly the monopoly, at which these pretensions
aim, is entitled to no partiality from any maritime or trading
people. Hence considerations, neither of justice or policy, as
they respect the immediate cause of the quarrel, incline us

towards Spain.

Putting, therefore, all considerations of peculiar good will to

d 5

66 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [ JSt. 33.

Spain or of predilection to any particular connection out of the
question, the argument respecting refusal or consent, in the case
supposed, seems to stand thus :

The acquisition of the Spanish territories bordering upon the
United States, by Britain, would be dangerous to us. And if
there were a good prospect that our refusal would prevent it,
without exposing us te a greater evil, we ought to refuse. But
if there be a considerable probability that our refusal would be
ineffectual, and if being so, it would involve us in war or dis-
grace, and if positive disgrace is worse than war, and war, in our
present situation, worse than the chances of the evils which may
befall us from that acquisition, then the conclusion would be that
we ought not to refuse. And this appears to be the true conclu-
sion to be drawn from a comprehensive and accurate view of the
subject; though first impressions are on the other side.

These reflections also may be allowed to come in aid of it.
Good or evil is seldom as great in the reality as in the prospect.
The mischiefs we apprehend may not take place. The enterprise,
notwithstanding our consent, may fail. The acquisition, if made,
may, in the progress of things, be wrested from its possessors.
These, if pressed hereafter, (and we are willing to accept it,) may
deem it expedient to purchase our neutrality by a cession to us
of that part of the territory in question, which borders on the
Mississippi, accompanied with a guarantee of the navigation of
that river. If nothing of this sort should happen, still the war
will necessarily have added millions to the debt of Britain, while
we shall be recruiting and increasing our resources and our
strength. In such a situation, she will have motives of no incon-
siderable force for not provoking our resentment. And a reasona-
ble confidence ought to be reposed in the fidelity of the inhabit-
ants of the Western country ; in their attachment to the Union ;
in their real interest to remain a part of it, and in their sense of
danger from the attempt to separate, which, at every hazard, ought
to be resisted by the United States.

It is also to be kept in view, that the same danger, if not to
the same extent, will exist, should the territories in question re-
main in the hands of Spain.

>Et. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 67

Besides all this, if a war should ever be deemed a less evil
than the neighborhood of the British in the quarter meditated,
good policy would still seem to require, as before intimated, that
we should avoid putting ourselves in a situation to enter into it,
till we had stipulated adequate indemnities and considerations
for doing so ; that we should see a little further into the unravel-
ment of the plot, and be able to estimate what prospect there
would be by our interference of obviating the evil. It deserves
a reflection, that if those territories have been once wrested from
Spain, she will be more tractable to our wishes, and more dispos-
ed to make the concessions which our interests require, than if
they never passed into other hands.

A question occurs here, whether there be not a middle course
between refusal and consent ; to wit, the waiving an answer, by
referring the matter to further consideration. But to this there
appear to be decisive objections. An evasive conduct in similar
cases is never dignified — seldom politic. It would be likely to
give satisfaction to neither party — to effect no good — to prevent
no ill. By Great Britain it would probably be considered as
equivalent to a refusal — as amounting to connivance by Spain —
as an indication of timidity by all the world.

It happens that we have a post on the "Wabash, down which
river the expedition, it is presumable, must go. If the com-
manding officer at that post has no orders to the contrary, it will
be his duty to interrupt the passage of the British troops ; if he
does, it would seem necessary for them, in order to the safe pas-
sage of their boats, with their artillery, stores, provisions, and
baggage, to take that post. Here then would be a passage
through our territory, not only without our permission, but with
the capture of a post of ours, which would be in effect making
war upon us. And thus silence, with less dignity, would pro-
duce the same ill consequence as refusal.

If, to avoid this, private orders were to be sent to the com-
manding officer of that post, not to interrupt the passage, his not
being punished for his delinquency would betray the fact and
afford proof of connivance.

The true alternative seems to be, to refuse or consent : and

68 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 33.

if the first be preferred, to accompany it with an intimation, in
terms as free from offence as possible, that dispositions will be
made to oppose the passage, if attempted to be forced ; and ac-
cordingly, as far as practicable, to make and execute such dispo-
sitions.

If, on the contrary, consent should be given, it may deserve
consideration whether it would not be expedient to accompany
it with a candid intimation that the expedition is not agree-
able to us, but that thinking it expedient to avoid an occa-
sion of controversy, it has been concluded not to withhold
assent. There are, however, objections to this mode. In case
of consent, an early and frank explanation should be given to
Spain.

Question the Second. — " What notice ought to be taken
of the measure, if it should be undertaken without leave, which
is the most probable proceeding of the two?"

If leave should be asked and refused, and the enterprise should
be prosecuted without it, the manner of treating it has been an-
ticipated ; that is, the passage, if practicable, should be opposed ;
and if not practicable, the outrage should be resented by re-
course to arms.

But if the enterprise should be undertaken without asking
leave, which is presumed to be the import of the question, then
the proper conduct to be observed will depend upon the circum-
stances.

As the passage contemplated would be by water, and almost
wholly through an uninhabited part of the country, over which
we have no actual jurisdiction, if it were unaccompanied by any
violence to our citizens or posts, it would seem sufficient to be
content with remonstrating against it, but in a tone that would
not commit us to the necessity of going to war; the objections
to which apply with full force here.

But if, as it is to be feared will necessarily be the case, our
post on the "Wabash should he forced, to make good their passage,
there seems to be no alternative but to go to war with them, un-
welcome as it may be. It seems to be this, or absolute and

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 69

unqualified humiliation ; which, as has been already noticed, is
in almost every situation a greater evil than war.

In every event, it would appear advisable immediately to
convene the Legislature ; to make the most vigorous measures
for war ; to make a formal demand of satisfaction ; to com-
mence negotiations for alliances ; and if satisfaction should be
refused, to endeavor to punish the aggressor by the sword.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

HAMILTON TO WINN.

Treasury Department, September 18th, 1790.

Sir:

Mr. Justin Foote has delivered at this office a commission
from the President of the United States, vesting you with the
office of Surveyor of the Port of Winton in North Carolina.
This gentleman informed me that he was not charged with any
letter of resignation from }^ou, but stated the substance of your
verbal communication to him at the time.

Passing over the obligation of every good citizen to deport
himself with due respect to the Chief Magistrate, and especially
of those to whom he and the Senate may have previously given
indications of confidence, which I am persuaded you would not
intentionally deviate from, I beg leave to observe, that ques-
tions may be raised whether the return of a commission is all
that is requisite from gentlemen who decline an appointment to
a public trust. Under these circumstances, I find myself con-
strained to request that you will make known to the President,
in a regular way, your intentions as to your late appointment.

70 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon. 20th September, 1790.

Sir:

In answer to your letter of the 10th instant, relative to the
establishment of the boats or cutters for the protection of the
revenue, I have to observe, that if there appears to exist a neces-
sity for equipping the whole number therein mentioned, the
arrangement for building and stationing them seems judicious,
and is to me perfectly satisfactory.

It is my wish, that your inquiries respecting proper charac-
ters to command these vessels, may be extended to the States
south of Virginia. Mr. Lear can furnish you with the list of ap-
plications already made. Two persons, with nearly equal recom-
mendations, have offered themselves, from Philadelphia, Cap-
tains Montgomery and Koach. There are several respectable
names subscribed in favor of each of these persons; some of
them, I believe, in favor of both ; such is the facility with which,
on certain occasions, recommendations are granted. It would
seem, however, that they are both qualified ; but, in favor of the
former, it is stated, that he now fills a subordinate station in the
revenue, which he accepted with a view of being brought into
notice when such an appointment as that which he now solicits
should be made.

Captain Barney was not at Baltimore when I passed through
the city, nor could I learn with certainty whether he wished to
receive the appointment or not. But I was informed that he
had written, in answer to an intimation made to him by you or
one of his friends, on the subject, whence I suppose his wish
may be collected.

There is a Mr. Bichard Taylor, of this State, an applicant for
one of the appointments, who, from my knowledge of him, ap-
pears to be a proper person, both as to character and experience
in the profession. Bemarking to you that the advantage which
might accrue from their superintendence seems to suggest the
propriety of nominating the commanders before the vessels are
put on the stocks, you have my permission to carry the arrange-

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 71

ment for building the boats or cutters, stated in your letter, into
immediate effect, to such extent as in your judgment shall seem
necessary for the public service.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, September 2 1st, 1790.

Sir:

Doctor Craigie has communicated to me a letter from Mr.
Daniel Parker to him, dated London, the 12th of July, which
mentions that he had just seen Mr. De Miranda, who had re-
cently conversed with the Marquis Del Campo, from whom he
had learnt that the Court of Spain had acceded to our right of
navigating the Mississippi.

Col. Smith has also read to me a passage out of another let-
ter, of the 6th of July, which mentions that orders had bee;> sent
to the Viceroy of Mexico, and the Governor of New Orleans, not
to interrupt the passage of vessels of the United States through
that river.

It is probable that other communications will have ascer-
tained to you whether there be any and what foundation for this
intelligence ; but I have thought it advisable, notwithstanding,
to impart it to you.

The reports from Europe favor more and more the idea of
peace. They are, however, not conclusive, and not entirely
correspondent.

Captain Watson, of the ship New- York, who left London the
28th of July, and Torbay the 16th or 17th of August, informs,
that the evening preceding her departure from Torbay, he was
informed by different officers of the fleet that peace between
Britain and Spain had taken place, and had been notified by
Mr. Pitt, in a letter to the Lord Mayor of London, of which an
account had arrived that evening. He had, however, seen no
papers containing the account, and the press of seamen had con-
tinued down to the same evening.

On the other hand, Capt. Hunter, of the ship George, who

72 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

left St. Andero the 8th of August, affirms that vigorous prepara-
tions for war were still going on at that port.
I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, Sept. 29, 1790.

Sie:

I have been duly honored with your two letters of the 18th
and 20th of September.

My opinion on a certain subject has been forwarded, and I
hope will ere this have come to hand.

Inclosed you will be pleased to receive a list of such charac-
ters as, from the documents furnished by Mr. Lear, from my
inquiries, and from the intimations contained in your letter of
the 20th, appear to stand, upon the whole, fairest, for the com-
mand of the revenue boats; except for the stations of North
Carolina and Georgia, concerning which there is no satisfactory
information.

Captain Montgomery is said to have, on some accounts, greater
pretensions to respectability than Captain Eoach (though both are
represented to be men of merit), and something like claim to pre-
ference from situation.

Mr. Gross is submitted on the recommendation of Captain
Barney, who mentions favorably both him and a Mr. Daniel
Porter, naming Gross first, but without expressing a preference
of either.

The Vice-President put into my hand, a day or two ago, the
inclosed letters concerning Captain Lyde ; but as Williams, who
is recommended by Governor Hancock, is also warmly recom-
mended by General Lincoln, the evidence in his favor may be
deemed to preponderate.

The manifest expediency o/ the previous nomination or ap-
pointment of the persons who are to command the boats, to over-
see the building and equipping of them, will suspend the further

JEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 73

execution of the business till your pleasure, as to the persons,
shall be signified.

The subaltern officers can be appointed at greater leisure, for
which purpose I am collecting information, as I am also doing
in respect to commanders for the two boats destined for North
Carolina and Georgia; but I presume the others need not be
delayed on this account.

I have the honor to be, &c.

P. S. — The British packet is just arrived. The rumor is,
that the declarations in the inclosed paper were regarded as the
prelude of peace ; but that the matter was not considered as
finished, and accordingly the press of seamen had continued with
as much vivacity as before. In the letter from the Minister to
the Lord Mayor, these declarations seem to be regarded in the
above-mentioned light. The letter says, the negotiators were
about to proceed to the discussion of the other matters in dis-
pute, with a view to a definitive arrangement.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, Sept. 30, 1790.

Sir:

I had lately a visit from a certain gentleman, the sole object of
which was to make some observations of a delicate nature concern-
ing another gentleman employed on & particular errand ; which, as
they were doubtless intended for your ear (and, such as they are,
ought to be known to you), it is of course my duty to commu-
nicate.

He began (in a manner somewhat embarrassed, which be-
trayed rather more than he seemed to discover) by telling me
that, in different companies where he had happened to be in
this city (a circumstance, by the way, very unlikely), he had
heard it mentioned that that other gentleman was upon terms
of very great intimacy with the representative of a certain
court at the one where he was employed, and with the head

74 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 33.

of the party opposed to the minister; and he proceeded to say
that, if there were any symptoms of backwardness or coolness
in the minister, it had occurred to him that they might pos-
sibly be occasioned by such an intimacy ; that he had no intima-
tion, however, of this being the case, and that the idea suggested
by him was mere matter of conjecture ; that he did not even
know it was a fact that the intimacy subsisted. But if this
should be the case (said he), you will readily imagine that it can-
not be calculated to inspire confidence or facilitate free commu-
nication. It would not be surprising if a very close connection
with the representative of another power should beget doubts
and reserves ; or if a very familiar intercourse with the head of
the opposition should occasion prejudice and distance. Man,
after all, is but man ; and though the minister has a great mind,
and is as little likely as most men to entertain illiberal distrusts
or jealousies; yet there is no saying what might be the effect of
such conduct upon him. It is hardly possible not to have some
diffidence of those who seem to be very closely united with our
political or personal enemies or rivals. At any rate, such an
intimacy, if it exists, can do no good, may do some harm.

This, as far as I recollect, was the substance of what he said.
My answer was nearly as follows : —

I have never heard a syllable, sir, about the matter you men-
tion. It appears to me, however, very possible that an intimacy
with both the persons you mention may exist : with the first,
because the situation of the parties had naturally produced such
an intimacy while both were in this country ; and to have dropped
and avoided it there would not have been without difficulty,
on the score of politeness, and would have worn an extraordinary
and mysterious aspect. AVith the last, from the patronage of
American affairs which is understood to have been uniformly the
part of that gentleman, and, in some degree, from a similarity of
dispositions and characters ; both brilliant men, men of wit and
genius ; both fond of the pleasures of society. It is to be hoped
that appearances which admit of so easy a solution will not prove
an obstacle to any thing which mutual interest dictates. It is
impossible that there can be any thing wrong.

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 75

He replied, that lie certainly had no idea that there could be
any thing wrong ; but that, as trifles often mar great affairs, he
thought it best to impart to me his conjecture, that such use
might be made of it as should be thought advisable.

I have the honor to be, &c.

P. S. — The letters herewith were, through hurry, omifted in
my dispatch of yesterday.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, October 3d, 1790.

Dear Sir :

Since my last to you, your letter dated the 15th ult'o, con-
taining your sentiments on the questions I had proposed for
your opinion and advice, is come duly to hand. I feel myself
much obliged by the full and able consideration you have given
the subject. From present appearances, however, it does not
seem as if there would be occasion for any decision on either
point which gave birth to my questions.

With very sincere regard and affection,

I am, dear Sir, &c.

Sir

HAMILTON TO LINCOLN.

Treasury Department, Oct. 4th, 1790,

It being necessary that I should proceed, according to the
directions of the legislature, to complete the light-house at Port-
land, in the province of Maine, I find the remote situation of the
place will render your assistance requisite on the occasion. In-
closed you will find the Act of Congress which must limit your
disbursements. I wish this business to be well executed, in a
way corresponding with the beginning, and that no time may be
lost. If it is possible to complete the work this season, it is very

76 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 33.

desirable that it be done ; if not, I hope it may be so far ad-
vanced, that the building can be covered and protected from in-
jury by the weather. On receipt of this, be pleased to employ,
without any avoidable delay, the suitable persons, either on
the spot or elsewhere in the State of Massachusetts, to complete
this light-house, either by contract or otherwise — preferring the
former, as the mode designated in other instances by the legisla-
ture, and taking care that your disbursements do not exceed the
sum granted by law.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Mount Vernon, Oct. 10, 1790.

Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 30th ult. came duly to hand with its inclo-
sures. For the information contained in it I thank you, as I
shall do for all others of a similar nature.

The motives, however, by which the author of the communi-
cation to you was actuated, although they may have been pure,
and in that case praiseworthy, do also (but it may be uncharita-
ble to harbor the suspicion) admit of a different interpretation,
and that by an easy and pretty direct clue.

We are approaching the first Monday in December by hasty
strides ; I pray you, therefore, to revolve in your mind not only
such matters (if there be any) as may be proper for me to lay
before Congress in your own department, but such others of a
general nature as may happen to occur to you, that I may be
prepared to open the session with such communications as shall
appear to merit attention.

With sincere regard, I am, &c.

,Et. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 11

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, Oct. 17, 1790.

Sir:

I had the honor of receiving your letter of the 10th inst.
by the last post. It is certainly very possible, that motives
different from the one avowed may have produced a certain
communication ; and in matters of such a nature it is not only
allowable, but the dictate of prudence, to receive suggestions
with peculiar caution.

A British packet arrived yesterday. The accounts she brings
are all of a warlike aspect. I have extracted from an English
paper the inclosed decree of the National Assembly of France ;
which, though of a qualified tenor, looks pretty directly towards
the eventual supporting of Spain. The English papers hold it
up as a decisive indication of a disposition to do so. And it is
said, in some of the letters which have been received, that posi-
tive orders have been sent to Lord Howe to fight if he can find
an opportunity. The papers announce a second fleet of fifteen
sail of the line ready to rendezvous at Portsmouth, to be under
the command of Admiral Hood. Their destination unknown.

It is also mentioned that the Dutch fleet had returned to the
Texel, the Duke of Leeds having previously made a journey for
an interview with the Dutch admiral. This very mysterious
circumstance is wholly unexplained.

A certain gentleman who called on me to-day, informed me
that a packet had sailed the 16th of August for Quebec, in which
went passenger General Clarke. He added that the rumor in
England was, that Sir Guy Carleton was to return in her. He
made no other communication.

The inclosed letter came to hand to-dav. I have had no
opportunity of making any inquiry concerning the person recom-
mended in it. If I can obtain any additional lights, they shall
be made known without delay.

The object suggested in your letter as preparatory to the
meeting of the Legislature shall engage my particular attention.

78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 33.

The papers of the departments of state and the treasury, and
of the commissioners for settling accounts, are on their way to
Philadelphia. On the 20th, I propose with my family to set out
for the same place.

I have the honor to be, &c.

Decree of the National Assembly.

Thursday afternoon, four o'clock.

The National Assembly, deliberating upon the formal propo-
sition of the King contained in the letter of his minister of the
1st of August, decrees,

First. That the King shall be prayed to make known to his
Catholic Majesty that the French nation, in taking all the measures
necessary to maintain peace, will observe the defensive and com-
mercial engagements which his Government has contracted with
Spain.

Secondly. Decrees moreover that the King shall be prayed
immediately to charge the Ambassador from France in Spain, to
negotiate with the ministers of his Catholic Majesty for the pur-
pose, and to the effect of strengthening, by a National Treaty,
the ties and connections useful to the two nations, and to fix
with clearness and precision all the stipulations which shall not
be entirely conformable to the views of a general peace, and to
the principles of justice, which will ever be the policy of France.

Thirdly. The National Assembly taking into consideration
the armaments of the different nations of Europe — their progres-
sive augmentation, the safety of the Colonies and of Commerce,
decrees that the King shall be prayed to give necessary orders
that the squadrons in commission may be augmented to forty -five
ships of the line, with a proportionate number of frigates and
small vessels.

Mt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 79

HAMILTON TO GOODHUE.

October 29, 1790.

Dear Sir:

As the subject of the inclosed letter is of consequence to the
Whale Fishery, I send it to you to read, and will be glad to con-
verse with you about it to-morrow.

Your obedient servant,

A. H.

October 29, 1789.

My Dear Sir:

I am duly favored with your letter of the eighteenth instant,
and receive the observations you have been so obliging as to
make, not only with candor but with thanks, as a mark of your
friendship and confidence.

I am far from relying so much upon my own judgment as not to
think it very possible that I may have been mistaken in both the
constructions on which you remark. Indeed I see abundant room
for adopting opposite ones, and did not, till after mature reflec-
tion, conclude on those which had been announced, and not then,
entirely, without hesitation.

The reasoning which prevailed in my mind in each case was
of this nature :

First, as to the Bounty.

The original and express object of the allowance was by way
of compensation for the duties on salt.

The declared motive of the suspension was, that there was
salt within the United States, on which no such duties had been
paid.

The equity of the suspending clause, which is, that there
ought to be no compensation where there is no consideration,
and the general intent of the Legislature, which was, that there
should be no compensation where there had been no such con-
sideration, were therefore both manifestly against the allowance
of the bounty on the articles shipped between the passing of the

80 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 33.

first Act and the passing of the second. And though the
letter of the suspending clause is future, yet its reason being re-
trospective, and the actual making of the allowance for articles
already shipped being future also, I thought it admissible so to
construe the law as to arrest this allowance, in that sense future,
in conformity to the real justice of the case and the main design
of the Legislature. In a circumstance in which the equity was
palpable, and the law doubtful, I thought it my duty as an
executive servant of the Government, not to let the public money
be parted with on a mere point of construction, till that construc-
tion should be judicially established. This resource will be
open to any individual who will choose to pursue it, by an action
against the Collector of the Port from which the articles' were
shipped.

Secondly, as to the discount for prompt payment.

The words "prompt payment" are, in my apprehension,
synonymous with immediate payment, or payment down. The
most obvious import of the clause in question seems, therefore,
to be this : when the amount of the duties exceeds fifty dollars,
time shall be given for payment upon proper bond security ; but
if the party prefers making immediate payment, on paying the
money down he shall have an allowance of ten per cent., on all
above fifty dollars, for doing it. The confining the discount to
the excess illustrates the meaning of the provision, and shows
that payment in the first instance was contemplated ; for if it had
been intended that the discount might be made at any time be-
fore the bonds became due, it would be difficult to imagine why
it should not extend to the fifty dollars, as well as to the excess.

I was the more inclined to this construction, because I
supposed the contrary one was of a nature to be rendered more
beneficial to any collector who might choose to avail himself of
it than to the public. And in general, I doubt much that it is
the interest of the public to make such a discount, as they now
borrow at less in its operation than six per cent. ; on which ac-
count I felt no inclination to extend the discount.

Thus have I, my dear sir, freely explained to you the motives
by which I have been governed in the instances in question.

,Et.33.] cabinet papers. 81

And I shall be happy that they may appear to you satisfactory.
I am sure at least that you will view the intention favorably ;
and I beg you to be assured of the friendship and esteem with
which I am, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Nov. 4th, 1790.

Sir:

I have the honor to inform you, that a letter, of which a copy
is inclosed, has come to my hands from the loan officer of North
Carolina, since the date of my last letter. On considering mi-
nutely the course of the business of the new loans and the future
operations of the treasury, as they will affect the public stocks, it
appeared necessary, to the prevention of frands by counterfeiters
and forgers, that particular caution should be observed at the
time of receiving the old certificates, after which it would be
difficult to discover the deceptions, and more so to remedy the
injuries committed on the public. Among other preventives, I
informed the officers that their residence, during the time of sub-
scription, at the place where the checks of the State debts were
deposited, appeared indispensable. This was grounded on the
great varieties of that kind of paper, and on an expectation, aris-
ing from several circumstances, that forged and counterfeit paper
would be frequently presented to them. In most of the States
the officers resided at the seat of the State government, where the
checks were deposited, and it was only of two or three, therefore,
that this apparently necessary requisition was to be made. In
regard to the residence of the officer at the principal seat of com-
merce in the State which should form his district, it appeared
absolutely necessary to the facility of sale and transfer, and to the
import and operations of raising and sustaining the value of the
debt. I have thought it necessary, sir, to trouble you with thus
much of my views, that you might perfectly understand the
ground upon which Mr. Skinner resigns the appointment.
D 6

82 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

I beg leave respectfully to observe, that the public service
appears to require this vacancy to be rilled as early as you can
satisfy your judgment respecting the person to whom you may
think proper to commit the office. I have, therefore, endeavored
to procure such information, to be submitted to you, as, together
with that drawn from other sources, might afford a number of
characters for your consideration and selection. I have not been
able, however, to obtain any new name whom I would venture
to place before you ; but, on reconsideration of the names that
were presented to you on the former occasion, I beg leave to call
your recollection to Colonel Thomas, in whom the State have
confided, and as a gentleman who was supported by the good
opinion of such of the North Carolina representatives as I con-
versed with. Should no objection against him be known to you,
and should no more suitable person be presented for your choice,
I am humbly of opinion that the duties of the office may be
safely committed to him.

The account of a declaration of war between Great Britain
and Spain having been received in a port adjacent to your pres-
ent place of residence, I did not think it of importance to transmit
information of it from hence. It remains, however, unconfirmed
and uncontradicted.

FITZSIMMONS TO HAMILTON.

November 6th, 1790.

Dear Sir :

The difficulty of making provision, by a general law, for the
regulation of pilots, and the superintendence of light-houses,
buoys, &c, appears to me to be insurmountable, otherwise than
by the appointment of commissioners in each State (say three),
to reside at the principal port ; to give them certain powers in
the act and authority to make by-laws, subject to the revision of
the President of the United States, or perhaps, more properly, of
the Secretary of the Treasury.

iEr. 33.] cabinet papers. 83

By this method, the complete control of the pilots would be
in the United States — a thing, in my opinion, important to the
revenue; and the regulations may be adapted to the circum-
stances of each State, without interfering with each other. If
you approve of the idea, and I can be serviceable in carrying it
into effect, you may command me.

I am, respectfully, &c.

HEADS OF TOPICS FOR PRESIDENT'S SPEECH OF DEC. 8, 1790.

Draft by Hamilton, December 1, 1790.

I. Confidence that measures for the further support of public
credit, and for the payment of the interest and gradual ex-
tinguishment of the principal of the public debt, will be pursued
with zeal and vigor ; and that, as one mean to this, a plan for
the sale of the "Western lands will be adopted, which will give
them the effect intended, appropriating them to the sinking
fund, and which will extend the agriculture of the United States.

II. Felicitation on the success of the measures hitherto
adopted for the support of public credit, as witnessed by the rise
of American stock, not only in the United States, but in Europe.
The public credit cannot but acquire additional energy when it
is known that the resources hitherto in activity, have been more
productive than was calculated upon. As proof not only of the
resources of the country, but of the patriotism and honor of the
mercantile and marine citizens of the United States, the punctu-
ality of the former in discharging their obligations has been
exemplary.

III. Information that a loan of 300,000 florins has been ef-
fected in Holland, the terms and disposition of which (as far as
any has been made) the Secretary of the Treasury has been
directed to explain.

IV. Growing conviction in the minds of the great body of the
people of the utility and benefits of a National Government. It

84 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 33.

is not to be doubted that any symptom of discontent which may
have appeared in particular places, respecting particular meas-
ures, will be obviated by a removal of the misapprehensions
which may have occasioned them.

Y. Communication of the expedition against the Indians, and
of the motives to it.

YI. Disturbed situation of Europe, particularly of the great
maritime powers. The precautions of a prudent circumspection
on the part of the United States ought not to be neglected.

YII. Almost total interruption of our Mediterranean trade,
from the dread of piratical depredations. Great importance of
opening that trade, and expediency of considering whether pro-
tection cannot be afforded to it.

IX. Symptoms of greater population than was supposed — a
further proof of progressive strength and resource.

X. Eemarks on the abundance of the harvests, affording an
assurance of internal plenty, and the means of easy payment for
foreign supplies.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON,

Philadelphia, Dec. 2d, 1790.

Sir:

The day before yesterday I received a letter from Mr. Wood-
bury Langdon, declining the appointment offered him. There
was a letter with it for you, which I immediately forwarded.

Since that time I have conversed with Mr. Langdon, and
have heard from Mr. Gilman ; the former is warm in his recom-
mendation of Mr. Keith Spence ; he states that his insolvency
was owing to the loss of a valuable ship and cargo, and was at-
tended with the most honorable circumstances ; that an immedi-
ate adjustment with the creditors took place to their entire satis-
faction ; that the deficiency was only of £1000, which he con-
siders as remitted ; that Mr. Spence was in partnership with Mr.
Sherburne ; that they have both been since in good business.

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 85

and are now more than able to pay whatever they may owe ;
that the failure happened some years ago ; that Mr. Spence,
though a native of Scotland, came early to this country — is a
man of education and abilities, well known and respected — a
firm friend to the Eevolution and to the National Government —
married to a lady of New Hampshire, with whom he has several
children. He showed me a letter from Mr. Spence, which gives
a favorable impression of his modesty and capacity.

Mr. Oilman talks of Mr. Spence as a man not generally
known, and who being by birth a foreigner, is not as acceptable
as a native to the people of that country ; that his attachment to
the American cause was rather ambiguous ; that he married the
daughter of a person who is now in office in the Island of Ber-
muda, and lately made a visit there ; that his insolvency would
throw a shade on his appointment, in the public opinion.

He, on the other hand, warmly recommended a Mr. Wil-
liam Gardiner, the present Treasurer of New Hampshire ; speaks
decidedly of his good character, and abilities as a man of business,
and of his general good standing in the State.

Mr. Langdon admits Mr. Gardiner to be a good and a quali-
fied man — says he was formerly his first clerk ; but affirms that
Mr. Spence has greatly the superiority in point of qualification —
hints at an arrangement between Mr. Gardiner and Mr. Gilman,
the late Loan Officer, by which Mr. Gilman expects to succeed to
the office of Treasurer, if the other obtains that of Commissioner
of Loans*

Thus stands my information, as far as it goes; I conjecture,
on the whole, that Mr. Spence is an unexceptionable man in
every respect but that of his late insolvency, and that he is pro-
bably better qualified than Mr. Gardiner, or, in other words, a man
of more ability. That, nevertheless, Mr. Gardiner is qualified for
the office, and in other respects an eligible person. Perhaps the
appointment of him will be, upon the whole, a safer one ; freer
from hazard of imputation of any kind.

You are, I presume, not unapprised of a Langdon and Gil-
man party in New Hampshire. Though it is desirable this
business should be finished, yet if it be supposed likely that the

86 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 33.

arrival of the eastern members will afford any new light, a few
days' delay cannot be very important.

SHOKT TO HAMILTON.

Amsterdam, Dec. 2, 1790.

Sir:

My last letter, of the 26th of November, will have informed
you of my arrival at this place. I have been hitherto employed
in ascertaining what measures would be most conducive to the
honor and interests of the United States in the execution of the
commission you have confided to my care. In the course of this
business several of the objects to which you directed my inquiries
naturally presented themselves, and particularly those which re-
late most immediately to a present loan.

I very soon satisfied myself that the rate of interest could not
now be reduced below five per cent. ; this was indicated as well
by the loans at present open here for other powers, which produce
that rate, as by those made on the liquidated debt of the United
States, which produce a higher rate. Besides, the Acts of Con-
gress were well known here, and left no doubt in the minds of
those employed in loans, that the advantages to be derived to the
United States from the purchase of their own funds at their pres-
ent price would induce them to borrow willingly on those terms.

It remained, therefore, only to be examined if the rate of
commission paid by the United States on their last loan, and
which their bankers had proposed to me as the lowest on which
they would undertake the business, could not be meliorated. To
do this, it was necessary to ascertain the rate paid by other pow-
ers who borrow here, which is the less easy as it is an article
which only regards the borrower and the agent, and which they
are both disposed to keep to themselves. Inquiries of this nature
also were the more delicate in the present case, because, as I had
every reason to believe it would be proper finally to commit this

JEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 87

business to those who have hitherto been employed in it, it was
to be wished that they should have as little ground as possible to
suppose in us a disposition to suspect or a desire to change them.

I found that most of the borrowing nations paid a much
higher commission, and I had good reason to believe that the
Emperor alone was served at the lower rate of four per cent.
After several conversations with the agents of the United States,
in which they urged the impossibility of accepting lower condi-
tions than those they had prescribed to themselves in the last
loan, where the circumstances under which they opened it obliged
them to confine their profits to the lowest possible terms, they
consented to a diminution of one-half per cent, on the commis-
sion, so as to leave it at four.

It was consequently agreed between us that they should open
a loan for two millions and a half of guilders, equal to a million
of dollars, upon the above terms of interest and commission, the
reimbursement to begin at the end of ten years, and to be com-
pleted in the five following ; the United States having a right to
reimburse the whole or any part of the same at any earlier period
they should judge proper. This latter clause, which you seemed
desirous of retaining, and which is certainly desirable under the
circumstances of the United States, is admitted here without
difficulty.

Matters being thus settled between these houses and myself,
it still remained for them to consult with the brokers who are
employed in this business, about the best time of opening the
loan.

In the course of my different conversations with the agents,
and also with two of the principal brokers in the American busi-
ness, with whom I had made myself acquainted, I had already
had occasion to observe that they considered the present as an
unfavorable moment for making loans in general, and particularly
so or the United States, because their five per cent, loans were
below par at present, owing to many people selling out of these
loai s in order to place their funds in those made in the liquidated
de( ; these latter producing an higher rate of interest, and
presenting also the United States ultimately as their security.

88 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 33.

The result of the conference, therefore, which the bankers
had with the brokers yesterday evening was, that if Congress
was in absolute want of the money they could set the loan on
foot, and had no doubt of having it filled before the expiration
of the term generally allowed in these cases — that it was, how-
ever, certain that it would go on slowly and heavily, and might
thus be injurious to the future views of Congress, as it appeared
from their acts they would have occasion to make a series of
loans ; — that it would, therefore, be best to postpone opening the
loan until the beginning of February, at which time such a loan
would be desired on the market, and greedily sought after,- —
that if any favorable circumstance should turn up sooner, which,
however, they did not foresee, they could in that case give notice
of it, and advise the loan being brought on the market.

It was impossible for me to hesitate in subscribing to this
sentiment, concurred in both by the bankers and brokers, and
confirmed by reason and example ; I did it with less reluctance,
because I saw that under present circumstances and agreeable to
the mode of making loans here, any given sum would be raised
probably as soon if brought on the market in the beginning of
February as at present.

Whenever a loan is opened, the undertakers, who are an
order between the money lenders and brokers, require a certain
time, always much more than necessary, for furnishing the money
for which they engage, with the privilege, however, of furnish-
ing it at any time sooner if they think proper, and this is done
sooner or later according to the favor with which the loan is
received. It is the opinion of Stadwitzke, particularly, that any
given number of loans could be effected for the United States at
an earlier period, beginning the first of February, than at present,
because the readiness with which the first loan would probably
be taken up in that case would accelerate the others.

These considerations, together with the propriety of endeavor-
ing to augment the credit of Congress by having their loans not
barely taken up when brought on the market, but sought after
with avidity, have determined me to fix with the bankers only
the terms of interest and commission, and to leave the time of

JEt.33.] CABINET PAPERS. 89

opening the loan dependent on the circumstances above men-
tioned. jNTo inconvenience can result as to such parts of the
money as you may destine to continue the payments to France ;
as after receiving your orders, the minister may be authorized to
draw on this place, at terms which may be adapted to the agree-
ments made with the undertakers. As to such parts as you may
choose to call for, there will probably be no inconvenience either,
the terms of the bills, if you should draw, leaving sufficient
time for filling the loans ; and if you should desire the coin to
be sent, the delay will not be considerable.

Having thus informed you, sir, of the present situation of the
intended loan, and the particular circumstances which have led
to it, I will endeavor to put you in possession of such parts of
the general information you desired as I have been able to col-
lect, premising however, that from the time and manner in
which these notions have been acquired, there may be some
errors, and that I reserve a right to correct them in my future
letters ; these errors however, I think, will be few and inconsid-
erable, as I have endeavored to keep separate in my mind such
information as appeared to me ascertained by a coincidence of
circumstances, or the corroborating evidence of different people
(counting only as different those who have different professions
and different and frequently opposite interests), from such as was
derived merely from isolated conversations with people of simi-
lar professions and interests.

With respect to the footing on which foreign loans have been
made here since our independence and at present, it may be ob-
served that the interest of money has taken a gradual rise, owing
as well to the greater quantities which are demanded here by
the several powers who borrow, as to a general increase of in-
dustry in Europe, which enables every one to make greater profits
from his capital, in whatever manner he employs it, and conse-
quently induces him to ask more if he is a lender, and enables
him to give more if he is a borrower. Besides this use, which
is independent of the circumstances of the borrowing powers,
there is a variation as to the facility and terms on which they
have obtained money, relative to the different situations in which

90 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 33.

they have been at the time of making their loans ; such as war
or peace, their domestic administration, the influence of their
agents employed here, and the intelligence which they have used
in the time and manner of making the loans. The standing rate
of interest fifteen years ago may be estimated at four per cent.,
as it may now at five. ISTo foreign power who has occasion to
make loans here at present pays less. Denmark has the appear-
ance of making a loan at four, but it is only the exchange of old
obligations bearing that interest for others at the same rate ; and
the price of this stock in the market shows that the interest
which that power would be obliged to pay on a new loan would
be five.

The borrowing powers here are, the Emperor, Eussia, the
United States, Denmark, Sweden, Poland, — I do not speak of
domestic loans, as they are never considered as a criterion for
foreign nations. The East India Company of this place has,
however, lately made one which costs them about five per cent.,
as it is said. It was sought after with avidity for that reason,
and because it was by lottery, a mode in which the lenders are
fond of placing some part of their money, because it holds out
the possibility of extraordinary gain, and also because they wish
not only to multiply the different persons with whom they place
their capital, but also to vary the manner of placing it.

Of the above mentioned powers, the Emperor and the United
States only have not a loan open at present. The Emperor's
last was closed, I think, in June : Poland has its first loan on the
market. The Emperor's five per cent, stock may be purchased
at two per cent, above par ; that of Eussia and the United States
a little below par, the latter particularly at one-half or three-
fourths per cent., viz. from 99£ to 99| the hundred. The com-
parative degree of estimation in which foreign credit is held by
the money lenders is, first, the Emperor ; second, Eussia, the Unit-
ed States, and Denmark ; third, Sweden ; — Poland cannot be well
judged of yet. Its credit depends principally upon its being
known to have little or no public debt ; on the prospect of its
constitution meliorating; and also on the disposition in the money
lenders to multiply as much as possible the persons with whom
they place their capital.

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 91

As to the influence which the war between England and
Spain would have had on the American loans, it seems to me it
would have facilitated them, because many would, in that case,
have sold out of the English funds, and some of them would
have vested their money in the American. It is proper to
observe, however, that many people here are of a different opin-
ion, and think that those who should have sold out would have
kept their money to be revested in the English funds when they
should have fallen to their lowest. But as this war is now out of
the question, it is useless to reason on it.

The extent and condition of our loans in the case of our be-
ing at war ourselves, it is impossible for me to form any probable
conjecture about. The bankers, however, say, that it would be
impossible to obtain more than very inconsiderable sums, and
these by an extraordinary interest and extraordinary means, such
as a lottery of some kind or other.

The conditions on which our loans are to be made at present,
I have already mentioned. The extent to which they may be
carried in any given time, depends so much on the changeable
circumstances of Europe, and their influence on this place, that
it is impossible to reduce it to certainty. It seems to be thought
by Stadwitzke, and by our bankers also, that in the case of no
other war taking place in Europe than that which exists at
present between Eussia and the Porte, we may be able to borrow
from nine to twelve millions of guilders in fourteen months from
this time. It must be observed, however, that in making this
estimation, they calculated on the loans being of three millions
of guilders each, and of their being opened successively when-
ever there was a favorable moment. I did not think it neces-
sary to inform them that the sum of each would be limited to a
million of dollars, and that no succeeding loan would be oj:>ened
until the preceding one had been confirmed. I do not think it
probable that the latter condition will occasion any delay, as a
confirmation may generally be received in three months. The
bankers insisted much upon fixing the loans at three millions of
guilders, urging that that sum was the one to which the under-
takers here were so much accustomed, that it would probably

92 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

be as soon taken up as one of two millions and a half. I did
not, however, think myself authorized to subscribe to their
wishes.

This view of the matter will show that it will take a longer
time to complete the sums wanted for the year '91 than you had
probably imagined. I own I had supposed, before my arrival
here, that they might be obtained sooner ; but the loans made on
the liquidated debt, which amount nearly to six millions of
guilders, have done considerable injury to the loans of Congress.
The only remedy to this evil is in the rise of the American
funds at home. The calculation here is, that when they get to
fifteen shillings in the pound, those who borrow on them cannot
give more than five per cent, interest. In that case, the loans of
Congress would be always preferred. The lowest interest which
has yet been given on the loans of the liquidated debt, is six per
cent., except, indeed, a small one of half a million of guilders,
which was proposed a few days ago at five and a half per cent.
The house of Cromelin, who set it on foot, finding that it would
not take, and being unwilling to have the appearance of having
failed in an undertaking, withdrew it from the public, under pre-
tence that they had placed it among their friends. It is gene-
rally understood, however, that money cannot be raised on these
funds at less than five per cent. * * * *

As it was necessary to ascertain fully whether four and a-half
per cent, was really the lowest terms on which they [Willinks]
would undertake the business, I endeavored to do it without
giving Congress the appearance of a hard employer.

*******

At the expiration of the term, they came and proposed them-
selves the reduction of one-half per cent, on the commission,
which I accepted. During the course of our conversations, they had
urged in favor of the terms they had proposed, that they never
made any charge to Congress for the disbursement of the loans,
which, as they say, is done by other branches, and is from one-
half to one per cent. I know not whether this is the case, and
it is the less necessary as they are to continue their usual mode ;
so as that the United States actually receive and dispose of

jEt. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 93

ninety-six florins for every one hundred for which their obliga-
tions are given.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

Philadelphia, Dec. 7, 1790.

Dear Sir :

If I recollect right, my requests have hitherto referred your
experiments to the newest dollars. I want, however, to know
the different kinds in common circulation, and their average
weight and respective dates.

Will you be so obliging, then, as to cause different parcels to
be taken promiscuously out of the mass in bank — say about
one hundred in each parcel, to cause them to be accurately
weighed together, and to transmit me the result, together with
the dates of the different kinds in each parcel ?

The sooner I can have this, the more it will oblige.

My anxiety respecting the assays chiefly relates to dollars,
and of course I wish them to be extended to the several kinds in
common circulation, and that the dates may be transmitted with
the results of the experiments.

These assays ought not to be stinted to too small portions of
metal. Any loss will be thankfully made good.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Dec. 13th, 1790.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit herewith the copy of a report
intended to be presented to the House of Representatives on the
subject of a National Bank.

This communication would have been earlier made, if it had

94 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 33.

been in my power ; but it has been impossible for me to prepare
it sooner.

With the most perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Dec. loth, 1790.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the he nor respectfully to
inform the President of the United States, that a wish of the
Collector of Boston to spend a part of the time of the session
of Congress at the seat of government, has been intimated
to him. An absence from his office at this season of the year
being the least likely to be inconvenient, and it being probable
that much useful information may be derived from conferences
with that officer, the Secretary would gladly transmit to him the
President's permission, if it should be his pleasure to grant it.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Dec. 1790.

Dear Sir:

Your indisposition has prevented me from giving you as
much trouble in making my communications to Congress as
otherwise I might have done.

The article of your notes which respects the loan in Hol-
land, I am somewhat at a loss to frame into a paragraph for the
speech, and therefore pray your assistance.

I had got it as per the inclosed, but upon a revision it does not
appear right. Be so good, therefore, as to new model, and let
me have it (if convenient to you) this afternoon with the sums
expressed where necessary.

I am sincerely yours, &c.

At. 33.] CABINET PAPERS. 95

"In pursuance of the authority granted for negotiating a

loan, not exceeding , application was made in Holland,

and I have the pleasure to inform you that a sum equal to •

dollars has been subscribed. This loan, which shows by its
success the confidence placed in the United States, cannot fail by
its intended application to give additional support to the public
credit. The terms of it, with the diposition as far as made, the
Secretary of the Treasury is directed to communicate."

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Dec. 22, 1790.

Sir:

I have the honor to send with this a short report on the Post-
Master General's letter.

From the circumstances of the case, and a general impression
that it is always best for the Chief Magistrate to be as little im-
plicated as possible in the specific approbation of a particular
measure proceeding from a particular officer, I believe it may be
advisable to answer generally that the President sees with
pleasure the improvements made in the contracts for conveying
the Mail; that he doubts not a judicious discretion has been
exercised in relation to the several parts of them. That (espe-
cially where circumstances vary) there does not appear to be a
strict obligation to prefer the lowest offer, and that in the case of
(Mr. Inskeep) the greater frequency of the transmission of the
Mail, the concentration of the business under one director, and
the experience of the past good conduct, are weighty reasons for
the preference of his offer meditated by the Post-Master General.

With the most respectful attachment, &c.

96 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

JEFFERSON TO HAMILTON.

January, 1791.

Dear Sir :

I return you the Keport on the Mint, which I have read over
with a great deal of satisfaction . I concur with you in thinking
that the unit must stand on both metals ; that the alloy should be
the same in both ; also in the proportion you establish between
the value of the two metals. As to the question on whom the
expense of coinage is to fall, I have been so little able to make
up an opinion satisfactory to myself as to be ready to concur in
either decision. With respect to the dollar, it must be admitted
by all the world that there is great uncertainty in the meaning
of the term, and therefore all the world have justified Congress
for their first act of removing the uncertainty by declaring What
they understood by the term ; but the uncertainty, once removed,
exists no longer, and I very much doubt a right now to change
the value, and especially to lessen it, it would lead to so easy a
mode of paying off their debts ; besides, the parties injured by
this reduction of the value would have so much matter to urge
in support of the first point of fixation. Should it be thought,
however, that Congress may reduce the value of the dollar, I
should then be for adopting for our unit, instead of the dollar,
either one ounce of pure silver, or one ounce of standard silver,
so as to keep the unit of money a part of the system of measures,
weights, and coins. I hazard these thoughts to you extempore,
and am, dear sir,

Eespectfully and affectionately,

Thomas Jefferson.

Col. Hamilton.

I inclose you two letters just received from France.

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 97

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

Philadelphia. Jan. 11, 1791.

Dear Sir :

I have perused with attention your intended Eeport to the
President, and will, as I am sure is your wish, give you my
opinion with frankness.

As far as a summary examination enables me to judge, I
agree in your interpretation of the treaty. The exemption
sought does appear to be claimable as a right. But I am
not equally well satisfied of the policy of granting it on the
ground you suggest. This, in my mind, stands in a very ques-
tionable shape. Though there be a collateral consideration, there
is a want of reciprocity in the thing itself; and this is a circum-
stance which materially affects the general policy of our naviga-
tion system. The tendency of the measure would be to place
French vessels upon an equal footing with our own in our ports,
while our vessels in the ports of France may be subjected to all
the duties which are there laid on the mass of foreign vessels. I
say the mass of foreign vessels, because the title of " most favored
nation" is a very extensive one, the terms being almost words of
course in commercial treaties. And consequently our own ves-
sels in the carrying trade between the United States and France
would be in a worse situation than French vessels. This is the
necessary result of equal privileges on one side and unequal on
the other, in favor of the vessels of France.

Though, in the present state of the French navigation, little
would be to be apprehended from the regulation ; yet, where the
probable increase of that navigation under a free government -
considered, it can hardly be deemed safe to calculate future con-
sequences from the actual situation in this respect.

And if the principle of the regulation cannot be deemed safe
in a permanent view, it ought not to be admitted temporarily ;
for inconvenient precedents are always embarrassing.

On the whole, I should be of opinion that the introduction of

D 7

98 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

such a principle without immediate reciprocity would be a high
price for the advantage which it is intended to compensate.

It will, no doubt, have occurred to you that the fund has
been mortgaged for the public debt. I do not, however, mention
this as an insuperable objection ; but it would be essential that
the same Act which would destroy this source of revenue should
provide an equivalent. This I consider as a rule which ought to
be sacred, as it affects public credit.

I have the honor to be, &c.

P. S. — If you have any spare set of the printed papers, I
should be obliged by having them.

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

January 13th, 1791.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for the printed papers you have been so obliging
as to send.

I cannot forbear a conjecture that the communications of the
Charge des Affaires of France are rather expedients to improve a
moment in which it is perceived questions concerning navigation
are to be discussed, than the effects of serious instructions from
his court.

Be this as it may, I really have not thought of any substi-
tute for your proposition to which objections do not lie. And,
in general, I have doubts of the eligibility of ex parte conces-
sions, liable to be resumed at pleasure. I had rather endeavor,
by a new treaty of commerce with France, to extend reciprocal
advantages, and fix them on a permanent basis. This would not
only be more solid, but it would, perhaps, be less likely, than
apparently gratuitous and voluntary exemptions, to beget dis-
contents elsewhere, especially (as ought to be the case) if each
party should be at liberty, for equivalent considerations, to grant

j£t. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 99

like privileges to others. My commercial system turns very
much on giving a free course to trade, and cultivating good
humor with all the world. And I feel a particular reluctance to
hazard any thing, in the present state of our affairs, which may
lead to a commercial warfare with any power ; which, as far as
my knowledge of examples extends, is commonly productive of
mutual inconvenience and injury, and of dispositions tending to
a worse kind of warfare. Exemptions and preferences which
are not the effect of treaty, are apt to be regarded by those who
do not partake in them as proofs of an unfriendly temper
towards them.

SHORT TO HAMILTON.

Amsterdam, January 25th. 1791.

Sir:

I have the honor of addressing you this letter by the way of the
English packet, because contrary winds still prevent any vessel
leaving the Texel. All the letters I have written to you by
American vessels since my arrival here are still there. Their
several dates are Dec. 2d, 18th, and 30th, January loth. These
letters were exceedingly prolix, as I thought it necessary to
enter into very particular details, in order to give you as good an
idea as I could of the different subjects about which you wished
to be informed. Duplicates of the first and second were for-
warded by separate vessels. I informed you also of the several
attempts that had been made to purchase the American debt
due to France, by a company of speculators, and the present
situation of that business. It was in those letters alone that I
gave you information, also, respecting the business about which
you must be most anxious to hear. The long continuance oi
the contrary wind, and the uncertainty when it may cease, in-
duces me to mention at present, in general terms, the terms on
which the loan is to be made, are the same with the last, except

100 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

that the commission is to be half per cent, lower. It will be
opened the middle or latter part of February.

I received, accidentally, by the way of England, the Presi-
dent's speech at the opening of Congress ; it was expected here
with much impatience, and has given much satisfaction — extracts
are already inserted in several of the Dutch gazettes, as I find.
In general, intelligence from the United States is sought after
with much avidity.

I have received lately, from M. cle Lafayette, a letter, which
you sent merely to introduce to me Mr. Walker, of New-York,
and who left it with him. I am sorry not to have seen this gen-
tleman, that I might have had an opportunity, sir, of paying
proper attention to your recommendation. M. de Lafayette had
previously informed me, that he had left with him also a large
packet with the seal of the Treasury Office. He understood that
the contents did not render it necessary to send it to me to this
place, and has therefore kept it at Paris. I conjecture that they
are the papers promised in your letter of September 1st.

I inclose you a general state of the exportations from Peters-
burg for the last year ; and a particular one of those made to
the United States in their own shipping. Prod, is a weight equal
to about thirty-six pounds English. Arsh, is a measure with
which I am unacquainted. We may hope, from the effect of our
wise regulations in America, to have less need in future of
foreign aid for many of these articles. Our shipping will then
find other employment, notwithstanding the rapid increase which
may be counted on with certainty. You will see in the general
state that Great Britain employs more ships in this business than
all the other nations together, and yet their minister seems
decided to take measures in the Spring which would at least
arrest this business for some time. He must probably think such
measures indispensable or he would not venture to paralyze so
important a member of the national commerce. Many say, how-
ever, that this is one of the instances in which cabinets sacrifice
commerce to politics.

Before I left Paris I was promised by the Farmer General a
particular state of our commerce with France for the first six

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 101

months of the year, and at the end of the year another for that
term. I gave directions to send a copy of it to you ; but as I do
not find that that which was for myself has been received, I fear
yours has not been sent either. I will endeavor to procure a state
for the whole year immediately, and send it to you.

For the present situation of European politics I beg leave to
refer you to my letter of yesterday to the Secretary of State, in
which this will be inclosed.

WASHINGTON TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY

OF FRANCE.

Draft by Hamilton.

Philadelphia, 27th January. 1791.

Sir:

I received with particular satisfaction, and imparted to Con-
gress, the communication made by the President's letter of the
20th of June last, in the name of the National Assembly of
France. So peculiar and so signal an expression of the esteem
of that respectable body for a citizen of the United States, whose
eminent and patriotic services are indelibly engraved on the
minds of his countrymen, cannot fail to be appreciated by them
as it ought to be. On my part, I assure you, sir, that I am
sensible of all its value.

The circumstances, which, under the patronage of a monarch,
who has proved himself to be the friend of the people over whom
he reigns, have promised the blessings of liberty to the French
nation, could not have been uninteresting to the free citizens of
the United States ; especially when they recollected the disposi-
tions which were manifested by the individuals as well as by the
government of that nation, towards their still recent exertions in
support of their own rights.

It is with real pleasure, sir, that I embrace the opportunity
now afforded me, of testifying through you to the National As-

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

sembly, the sincere, cordial, and earnest wish I entertain, that
their labors may speedily issue in the firm establishment of a
constitution, which, by wisely conciliating the indispensable prin-
ciples of public order with the enjoyment and exercise of the
essential rights of man, shall perpetuate the freedom and happi-
ness of the people of France.

The impressions naturally produced by similarity of political
sentiment are justly to be regarded as causes of national sympa-
thy, calculated to confirm the amicable ties, which may otherwise
subsist between nations. This reflection, independent of its
more particular reference, must dispose every benevolent mind
to unite in the wish, that a general diffusion of the true principles
of liberty, assimilating as well as ameliorating the condition of
mankind, and fostering the maxims of an ingenuous and virtuous
policy, may tend to strengthen the fraternity of the human race,
to assuage the jealousies and animosities of its various sub-
divisions, and to convince them more and more, that their true
interest and felicity will best be promoted by mutual good will
and universal harmony.

The friendship, to which the President alludes in the close of
his letter, has caused me to perceive with particular pleasure that
one, who had endeared himself to this country by an ardent zeal
and by useful efforts in the cause of liberty, has by the same
title acquired the confidence and affection of his own. May it
ever be his chief aim to continue to be beloved, as one of her
most virtuous and most faithful citizens.

I beg you to accept my acknowledgments for the sentiments
in the same letter, which relate more particularly to myself, and
at the same time to be assured of the most perfect consideration
on the part of, &c.

Mt. 34.1 CABINET PAPERS. 103

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Feb. 16, 1791.

Sir:

An Act to incorporate the subscribers to the Bank of the
United States is now before me for consideration.

The constitutionality of it is objected to. It therefore becomes
more particularly my duty to examine the ground on which the
objection is built. As a mean of investigation, I have called
upon the Attorney-General of the United States, in whose line
it seemed more particularly to be, for his official examination and
opinion. His Eeport is, that the Constitution does not warrant
the Act. I then applied to the Secretary of State for his senti-
ments on this subject. These coincide with the Attorney-Gen-
eral's ; and the reasons for their opinions having been submitted
in writing, I now require, in like manner, yours on the valid-
ity and propriety of the above-recited Act ; and, that you may
know the points on which the Secretary of State and the Attor-
ney-General dispute the constitutionality of the Act, and that I
may be fully possessed of the arguments for and against the
measure, before I express any opinion of my own, I give you an
opportunity of examining and answering the objections contained
in the inclosed papers. I require the return of them when your
own sentiments are handed to me (which I wish may be as soon
as is convenient) ; and further, that no copies of them be taken,
as it is for my own satisfaction they have been called for.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Monda\ .

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President of the United States, to request his indulgence for not
having yet furnished his reasons on a certain point. He has been

104 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

ever since sedulously engaged in it, but finds it will be impos-
sible to complete it before Tuesday evening or Wednesday
morning early. He is anxious to give the point a thorough
examnation.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President, and sends him the opinion required, which occupied
him the greatest part of last night.

The bill for extending the time of opening subscriptions
passed yesterday unanimously to an order for engrossing.

Opinion as to the Constitutionality of the Bank of the United States.

February 23d, 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury having perused with attention
the papers containing the opinions of the Secretary of State and
Attorney-General, concerning the constitutionality of the bill for
establishing a National Bank, proceeds, according to the order of
the President, to submit the reasons which have induced him to
entertain a different opinion.

It will naturally have been anticipated, that in performing
this task, he would feel uncommon solicitude. Personal con-
siderations alone, arising from the reflection that the measure
originated with him, would be sufficient to produce it. The
sense which he has manifested of the great importance of such
an institution to the successful administration of the department
under his particular care, and an expectation of serious ill con-
sequences to result from a failure of the measure, do not permit
him to be without anxiety on public accounts. But the chief
solicitude arises from a firm persuasion, that principles of con-
struction like those espoused by the Secretary of State and At-
torney-General, would be fatal to the just and indispensable
authoritv of the United States.

Mt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 105

In entering upon the argument, it ought to be premised that
the objections of the Secretary of State and Attorney- General
are founded on a general denial of the authority of the United
States to erect corporations. The latter, indeed, expressly ad-
mits, that if there be any thing in the bill which is not warranted
by the Constitution, it is the clause of incorporation.

Now it appears to the Secretary of the Treasury that this
general principle is inherent in the very definition of government,
and essential to every step of the progress to be made by that of
the United States, namely : That every power vested in a gov-
ernment is in. its nature sovereign, and includes, by force of the
term, a right to employ all the means requisite and fairly appli-
cable to the attainment of the ends of such power, and which are
not precluded by restrictions and exceptions specified in the
Constitution, or not immoral, or not contrary to the essential ends
of political society.

This principle, in its application to government in general,
would be admitted as an axiom ; and it will be incumbent upon
those who may incline to deny it, to prove a distinction, and to
show that a rule which, in the general system of things, is
essential to the preservation of the social order, is inapplicable
to the United States.

The circumstance that the powers of sovereignty are in this
county divided between the National and State governments,
does not afford the distinction required. It does not follow from
this, that each of the portion of powers delegated to the one or to
the other, is not sovereign with regard to its proper objects. It will
only follow from it, that each has sovereign power as to certain
tilings, and not as to other things. To deny that the government
of the United States has sovereign power, as to its declared pur-
poses and trusts, because its power does not extend to all cases,
would be equally to deny that the State governments have
sovereign power in any case, because their power does not ex-
tend to every case. The tenth section of the first article of the
Constitution exhibits a long list of very important things which
they may not do. And thus the United States would furnish
the singular spectacle of a political society without sovereignty, or
of a people governed, without government.

106 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 34.

If it would be necessary to bring proof to a proposition so
clear, as that which affirms that the powers of the federal gov-
ernment, as to its objects, were sovereign, there is a clause of its
Constitution which would be decisive. It is that which declares
that the Constitution, and the laws of the United States made in
pursuance of it, and all treaties made, or which shall be made,
under their authority, shall be the supreme law of the land. The
power which can create the supreme law of the land in any case, is
doubtless sovereign as to such case.

This general and indisputable principle puts at once an end
to the abstract question, whether the United States have power
to erect a corporation ; that is to say, to give a legal or artificial
capacity to one or more persons, distinct from the natural. For
it is unquestionably incident to sovereign power to erect corpora-
tions, and consequently to that of the United States, in relation to
the objects intrusted to the management of the government. The
difference is this : where the authority of the government is gen-
eral, it can create corporations in all cases ; where it is confined to
certain branches of legislation, it can create corporations only in
those cases.

Here then, as far as concerns the reasonings of the Secretary
of State and the Attorney-General, the affirmative of the consti-
tutionality of the bill might be permitted to rest. It will occur
to the President, that the principle here advanced has been un-
touched by either of them.

For a more complete elucidation of the point, nevertheless,
the arguments which they had used against the power of the
government to erect corporations, however foreign they are to
the great and fundamental rule which has been stated, shall be
particularly examined. And after showing that they do not
tend to impair its force, it shall also be shown that the power of
incorporation, incident to the government in certain cases, does
fairly extend to the particular case which is the object of the bill.

The first of these arguments is, that the foundation of the
Constitution is laid on this ground : " That all powers not dele-
gated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited to
it by the States, are reserved for the States, or to the people."

Mr. 84.] CABINET PAPERS. 107

Whence it is meant to be inferred, that Congress can in no case
exercise any power not included in those not enumerated in the
Constitution. And it is affirmed, that the power of erecting a
corporation is not included in any of the enumerated powers.

The main proposition here laid down, in its true signification
is not to be questioned. It is nothing more than a consequence
of this republican maxim, that all government is a delegation of
power. But how much is delegated in each case, is a question
of fact, to be made out by fair reasoning and construction, upon
the particular provisions of the Constitution, taking as guides
the general principles and general ends of governments.

It is not denied that there are implied, as well as express pow-
ers, und that the former are as effectually delegated as the latter.
And for the sake of accuracy it shall be mentioned, that there is
another class of powers, which may be properly denominated
resulting powers. It will not be doubted, that if the United States
should make a conquest of any of the territories of its neighbors,
they would possess sovereign jurisdiction over the conquered
territory. This would be rather a result, from the whole mass
of the powers of the government, and from the nature of politi-
cal society, than a consequence of either of the powers specially
enumerated.

But be this as it may, it furnishes a striking illustration of
the general doctrine contended for ; it shows an extensive case,
in which a power of erecting corporations is either implied in,
or would result from, some or all of the powers vested in the
national government. The jurisdiction acquired over such con-
quered country would certainly be competent to any species of
legislation.

To return : — It is conceded that implied powers are to be con-
sidered as delegated equally with express ones. Then it follows,
that as a power of erecting a corporation may as well be implied
as any other thing, it may as well be employed as an instrument
or mean of carrying into execution any of the specified powers,
as any other instrument or mean whatever. The only question
must be, in this, as in every other case, whether the mean to be
employed, or in this instance, the corporation to be erected, has

108 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 34.

a natural relation to any of the acknowledged objects or lawful
ends of the government. Thus a corporation may not be erected
by Congress for superintending the police of the city of Phila-
delphia, because they are not authorized to regulate the police of
that city. But one may be erected in relation to the collection
of taxes, or to the trade with foreign countries, or to the trade
between the States, or with the Indian tribes ; because it is the
province of the federal government to regulate those objects, and
because it is incident to a general sovereign or legislative power to
regulate a thing, to employ all the means which relate to its regu-
lation to the best and greatest advantage.

A strange fallacy seems to have crept into the manner of
thinking and reasoning upon the subject. Imagination appears to
have been unusually busy concerning it. An incorporation
seems to have been regarded as some great independent substantive
thing; as a political end of peculiar magnitude and moment;
whereas it is truly to be considered as a quality, capacity, or mean
to an end. Thus a mercantile company is formed, with a certain
capital, for the purpose of carrying on a particular branch of
business. Here the business to be prosecuted is the end. The
association, in order to form the requisite capital, is the primary
mean. Suppose that an incorporation were added to this, it
would only be to add a new quality to that association, to give it
an artificial capacity, b}^ which it would be enabled to prosecute
the business with more safety and convenience.

That the importance of the power of incorporation has been
exaggerated, leading to erroneous conclusions, will further ap-
pear from tracing it to its origin. The Koman law is the source
of it, according to which a voluntary association of individuals, at
any time, or for any purpose, was capable of producing it. In
England, whence our notions of it are immediately borrowed, it
forms part of the executive authority, and the exercise of it has
been often delegated by that authority. Whence, therefore, the
ground of the supposition that it lies beyond the reach of all
those very important portions of sovereign power, legislative as
well as executive, which belongs to the government of the United
States ?

JEr. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 109

Through this mode of reasoning respecting the right of
employing all the means requisite to the execution of the speci-
fied powers of the government, it is objected, that none but
necessary and proper means are to be employed ; and the Secre-
tary of State maintains, that no means are to be considered as
necessary but those without which the grant of the power would
be nugatory. Kay, so far does he go in his restrictive interpreta-
tion of the word, as even to make the case of necessity which shall
warrant the constitutional exercise of the power to depend on
casual and temporary circumstances ; an idea which alone refutes
the construction. The expediency of exercising a particular power,
at a particular time, must, indeed, depend on circumstances ; but
the constitutional right of exercising it must be uniform and in-
variable, the same to-day as to-morrow.

All the arguments, therefore, against the constitutionality of
the bill derived from the accidental existence of certain State
banks, — institutions which happen to exist to-day, and, for aught
that concerns the government of the United States, may disap-
pear to-morrow, — must not only be rejected as fallacious, but
must be viewed as demonstrative that there is a radical source of
error in the reasoning.

It is essential to the being of the national government, that
so erroneous a conception of the meaning of the word necessary
should be exploded.

It is certain, that neither the grammatical nor popular sense
of the term requires that construction. According to both, neces-
sary often means no more than needful, requisite, incidental, useful,
or conducive to. It is a common mode of expression to say, that
it is necessary for a government or a person to do this or that
thing, when nothing more is intended or understood, than that
the interests of the government or person require, or will be pro-
moted by, the doing of this or that thing. The imagination can
be at no loss for exemplifications of the use of the word in this
sense. And it is the true one in which it is to be understood as
used in the Constitution. The whole turn of the clause contain-
ing it indicates, that it was the intent of the Convention, by that
clause, to give a liberal latitude to the exercise of the specified

110 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

powers. The expressions have peculiar comprehensiveness.
They are, " to make all laws necessary and proper for carrying
into execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by
the Constitution in the government of the United States, or in any
department or officer thereof."

To understand the word as the Secretary of State does,
would be to depart from its obvious and popular sense, and to
give it a restrictive operation, an idea never before entertained.
It would be to give it the same force as if the word absolutely or
indispensably had been prefixed to it.

Such a construction would beget endless uncertainty and
embarrassment. The cases must be palpable and extreme, in
which it could be pronounced, with certainty, that a measure was
absolutely necessary, or one, without which, the exercise of a
given power would be nugatory. There are few measures of
any government which would stand so severe a test. To insist
upon it, would be to make the criterion of the exercise of any
implied power, a case of extreme necessity ; which is rather a rule
to justify the overleaping of the bounds of constitutional autho-
rity, than to govern the ordinary exercise of it.

It may be truly said of every government, as well as of that
of the United States, that it has only a right to pass such laws as
are necessary and proper to accomplish the objects intrusted to
it. For no government has a right to do merely what it pleases.
Hence, by a process of reasoning similar to that of the Secretary
of State, it might be proved that neither of the State govern-
ments has a right to incorporate a bank. It might be shown
that all the public business of the state could be performed with-
out a bank, and inferring thence that it was unnecessary, it might
be argued that it could not be done, because it is against the rule
which has been just mentioned. A like mode of reasoning would
prove that there was no power to incorporate the inhabitants of
a town, with a view to a more perfect police. For it is certain
that an incorporation may be dispensed with, though it is better
to have one. It is to be remembered that there is no express
power in any State constitution to erect corporations.

The degree in which a measure is necessary, can never be a

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. Ill

test of the legal right to adopt it ; that must be a matter of opinion,
and can only be a test of expediency. The relation between the
measure and the end ; between the nature of the mean employed
towards the execution of a power, and the object of that power,
must be the criterion of constitutionality, not the more or less of
necessity or utility.

The practice of the government is against the rule of con-
struction advocated by the Secretary of State. Of this, the Act
concerning light-houses, beacons, buoys, and public piers, is a
decisive example. This, doubtless, must be referred to the
powers of regulating trade, and is fairly relative to it. But it
cannot be affirmed that the exercise of that power in this in-
stance was strictly necessary, or that the power itself would be
nugatory, without that of regulating establishments of this nature.

This restrictive interpretation of the word necessary is also
contrary to this sound maxim of construction ; namely, that the
powers contained in a constitution of government, especially
those which concern the general administration of the affairs
of a country, its finances, trade, defence, &c, ought to be
construed liberally in advancement of the public good. This
rule does not depend on the particular form of a government, or
on the particular demarkation of the boundaries of its powers,
but on the nature and objects of government itself. The means
by which national exigencies are to be provided for, national in-
conveniences obviated, national prosperity j)romoted, are of such
infinite variety, extent, and complexity, that there must of neces-
sity be great latitude of discretion in the selection and application
of those means. Hence, consequently, the necessity and propri-
ety of exercising the authorities intrusted to a government on
principles of liberal construction.

The Attorney-General admits the rule, but takes a distinction
between a State and the Federal Constitution. The latter, he
thinks, ought to be construed with greater strictness, because
there is more danger of error in defining partial than general
powers. But the reason of the rule forbids such a distinction.
This reason is, the variety and extent of public exigencies, a far
greater proportion of which, and of a far more critical kind, are

112 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

objects of National than of State administration. The greater
danger of error, as far as it is supposable, may be a prudential
reason for caution in practice, but it cannot be a rule of restric-
tive interpretation.

In regard to the clause of the Constitution immediately un-
der consideration, it is admitted by the Attorney-General, that
no restrictive effect can be ascribed to it. He defines the word
necessary thus: "To be necessary is to be incidental, and may be
denominated the natural means of executing a power."

But while on the one hand the construction of the Secretary of
State is deemed inadmissible, it will not be contended, on the other,
that the clause in question gives any new or independent power. But
it gives an explicit sanction to the doctrine of implied powers, and
is equivalent to an admission of the proposition that the govern-
ment, as to its specified powers and objects, has plenary and sover-
eign authority, in some cases paramount to the States ; in others,
co-ordinate with it. For such is the plain import of the declara-
tion, that it may pass all laws necessary and proper to carry into
execution those powers.

It is no valid objection to the doctrine to say, that it is calcu-
lated to extend the power of the general government through-
out the entire sphere of State legislation. The same thing has
been said, and may be said, with regard to every exercise of
power by implication or construction.

The moment the literal meaning is departed from, there is a
chance of error and abuse. And yet an adherence to the letter
of its powers would at once arrest the motions of government.
It is not only agreed, on all hands, that the exercise of construc-
tive powers is indispensable, but every act which has been
passed is more or less an exemplification of it. One has been
already mentioned — that relating to light-houses, &c. — that
which declares the power of the President to remove officers
at pleasure, acknowledges the same truth in another and a
signal instance.

The truth is, that difficulties on this point are inherent in the
nature of the Federal Constitution ; they result inevitably from
a division of the legislative power. The consequence of this

iET. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 113

division is, that there will be cases clearly within the power of
the national government ; others, clearly without its powers ;
and a third class, which will leave room for controversy and dif-
ference of opinion, and concerning which a reasonable latitude of
judgment must be allowed.

But the doctrine which is contended for is not chargeable
with the consequences imputed to it. It does not affirm that the
national government is sovereign in all respects, but that it is
sovereign to a certain extent ; that is, to the extent of the objects
of its specified powers.

It leaves, therefore, a criterion of what is constitutional, and
of what is not so. This criterion is the end, to which the meas-
ure relates as a mean. If the end be clearly comprehended within
any of the specified powers, and if the measure have an obvious
relation to that end, and is not forbidden by any particular pro-
vision of the Constitution, it may safely be deemed to come
within the compass of the national authority. There is also this
further criterion, which may materially assist the decision:
Does the proposed measure abridge a pre-existing right of any
State or of any individual ? If it does not, there is a strong
presumption in favor of its constitutionality, and slighter rela-
tions to any declared object of the Constitution may be permit-
ted to turn the scale.

The general objections, which are to be inferred from the
reasonings of the Secretary of State and Attorney-General, to
the doctrine which has been advanced, have been stated, and it
is hoped satisfactorily answered. Those of a more particular
nature shall now be examined.

The Secretary of State introduces his opinion with an ob-
servation, that the proposed incorporation undertakes to create
certain capacities, properties, or attributes, which are against the
laws of alienage, descents, escheat, and forfeiture, distribution and
monopoly, and to confer a power to make laws paramount to
those of the States. And nothing, says he, in another place, but
necessity, invincible by oilier means, can justify such a prostration of
laws, which constitute the pillars of our whole system of juris-
prudence, and are the foundation laws of the State governments.
d 8

114 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

If these are truly the foundation laws of the several States, then
have most of them subverted their own foundations. For there
is scarcely one of them which has not, since the establishment
of its particular constitution, made material alterations in some
of those branches of its jurisprudence, especially the law of
descents. But it is not conceived how any thing can be called
the fundamental law of a State government which is not estab-
lished in its constitution, unalterable by the ordinary legislature.
And, with regard to the question of necessity, it has been shown
that this can only constitute a question of expediency, not of
right.

To erect a corporation, is to substitute a legal or artificial to
a natural person, and where a number are concerned, to give
them individuality. To that legal or artificial person, once cre-
ated, the common law of every State, of itself, annexes all those
incidents and attributes which are represented as a prostration of
the main pillars of their jurisprudence.

It is certainly not accurate to say, that the erection of a cor-
poration is against those different heads of the State laws ; be-
cause it is rather to create a kind of person or entity, to which
they are inapplicable, and to which the general rule of those laws
assign a different regimen. The laws of alienage cannot apply
to an artificial person, because it can have no country ; those of
descent cannot apply to it, because it can have no heirs ; those
of escheat are foreign from it, for the same reason ; those of for-
feiture, because it cannot commit a crime ; those of distribution,
because, though it may be dissolved, it cannot die.

As truly might it be said, that the exercise of the power of
prescribing the rule by which foreigners shall be naturalized, is
against the law of alienage, while it is, in fact, only to put them
in a situation to cease to be the subject of that law. To do a
-thing which is against a law, is to do something which it forbids,
or which is a violation of it.

But if it were even to be admitted that the erection of a cor-
poration is a direct alteration of the stated laws, in the enume-
rated particulars, it would do nothing towards proving that the
measure was unconstitutional. If the government of the United

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 115

States can do no act which amounts to an alteration of a State
law, all its powers are nugatory ; for almost every new law is an
alteration, in some way or other, of an old law, either common or
statute.

There are laws concerning bankruptcy in some States. Some
States have laws regulating the values of foreign coins. Con-
gress are empowered to establish uniform laws concerning bank-
ruptcy throughout the United States, and to regulate the values
of foreign coins. The exercise of either of these powers by
Congress, necessarily involves an alteration of the laws of those
States.

Again. Every person, by the common law of each State,
may export his property to foreign countries, at pleasure. But
Congress, in pursuance of the power of regulating trade, may
prohibit the exportation of commodities; in doing which, they
would alter the common law of each State, in abridgment of
individual right.

It can therefore never be good reasoning to say this or that
act is unconstitutional, because it alters this or that law of a
State. It must be shown that the act which makes the altera-
tion is unconstitutional on other accounts ; not because it makes
the alteration.

There are two points in the suggestions of the Secretary of
State, which have been noted, that are peculiarly incorrect. One
is, that the proposed incorporation is against the laws of mo-
nopoly, because it stipulates an exclusive right of banking
under the national authority; the other, that it gives power
to the institution to make laws paramount to those of the
States.

But, with regard to the first point: The bill neither pro-
hibits any State from erecting as many banks as they please,
nor any number of individuals from associating to carry on the
business, and consequently, is free from the charge of establish-
ing a monopoly ; for monopoly implies a legal impediment to the
carrying on of the trade by others than those to whom it is
granted.

And with regard to the second point, there is still less

116 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

foundation. The by-laws of such an institution as a bank can
operate only on its own members — can only concern the dis-
position of its own property, and must essentially resemble the
rules of a private mercantile partnership. They are expressly
not to be contrary to law ; and law must here mean the law of a
State, as well as of the United States. There never can be a
doubt, that a law of a corporation, if contrary to a law of a
State, must be overruled as void, unless the law of the State is
contrary to that of the United States, and then the question will
not be between the law of the State and that of the corpora-
tion, but between the law of the State and that of the United
States.

Another argument made use of by the Secretary of State is,
the rejection of a proposition by the Convention to empower
Congress to make corporations, either generally, or for some
special purpose.

What was the precise nature or extent of this proposition, or
what the reasons for refusing it, is not ascertained by any authen-
tic document, or even by accurate recollection. As far as any
such document exists, it specifies only canals. If this was the
amount of it, it would, at most, only prove that it was thought in-
expedient to give a power to incorporate for the purpose of open-
ing canals, for which purpose a special power would have been ne-
cessary, except with regard to the western territory, there being
nothing in any part of the Constitution respecting the regulation
of canals. It must be confessed, however, that very different
accounts are given of the import of the proposition, and of the
motives for rejecting it. Some affirm, that it was confined to the
opening of canals and obstructions in rivers ; others, that it em-
braced banks ; and others, that it extended to the power of incor-
porating generally. Some, again, allege, that it was disagreed to
because it was thought improper to vest in Congress a power of
erecting corporations. Others, because it was thought unneces-
sary to specify the power, and inexpedient to furnish an additional
topic of objection to the Constitution. In this state cC the matter,
no inference whatever can be drawn from it.

But whatever may have been the nature of the proposition,

jEt.34.] cabinet papers. 117

or the reasons for rejecting it, includes nothing in respect to the
real merits of the question. The Secretary of State will not deny,
that, whatever may have been the intention of the framers of a
constitution, or of a law, that intention is to be sought for in the
instrument itself, according to the usual and established rules of
construction. Nothing is more common than for laws to express
and effect more or less than was intended. If, then, a power to
erect a corporation in any case be deducible, by fair inference,
from the whole or any part of the numerous provisions of the
Constitution of the United States, arguments drawn from extrin-
sic circumstances regarding the intention of the Convention
must be rejected.

Most of the arguments of the Secretary of State, which have
not been considered in the foregoing remarks, are of a nature
rather to apply to the expediency than to the constitutionality of
the bill. They will, however, be noticed in the discussions which
will be necessary in reference to the particular heads of the pow-
ers of the government which are involved in the question.

Those of the Attorney-General will now properly come under
view.

His first objection is, that the power of incorporation is not
expressly given to Congress. This shall be conceded, but in this
sense only, that it is not declared in express terms that Congress
may erect a corporation. But this cannot mean, that there are
not certain express powers which necessarily include it. For in-
stance, Congress have express power to exercise exclusive legis-
lation, in all cases whatsoever, over such district (not exceeding
ten miles square) as may, by cession of particular States and the
acceptance of Congress, become the seat of the government of the
United States ; and to exercise like authority over all places pur-
chased, by consent of the legislature of the State in which the
same shall be, for the erection of forts, arsenals, dock-yards, and
other needful buildings. Here, then, is express power to exer-
cise exclusive legislation, in all cases whatsoever, over certain places ;
that is, to do, in respect to those places, all that any government
whatsoever may do. For language does not afford a more com-
plete designation of sovereign power than in those comprehensive

118 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

terms. It is, in other words, a power to pass all laws whatsoever,
and, consequently, to pass laws for erecting corporations, as well
as for any other purpose which is the proper object of law in a
free government.

Surely it can never be believed that Congress, with exclusive
poioers of legislation in all cases whatsoever, cannot erect a corpo-
ration within the district which shall become the seat of govern-
ment, for the better regulation of its police. And yet there is an
unqualified denial of the power to erect corporations in every
ease, on the part both of the Secretary of State and of the Attor-
ney-General ; the former, indeed, speaks of that power in these
emphatical terms : That it is a right remaining exclusively with the
States.

As far, then, as there is an express power to do any particular
act of legislation, there is an express one to erect a corporation in
the case above described. But, accurately speaking, no par-
ticular power is more than that implied in a general one. Thus
the power to lay a duty on a gallon of rum is only a particular
implied in the general power to lay and collect taxes, duties, im-
posts, and excises. This serves to explain in what sense it may
be said that Congress have not an express power to make corpo-
rations.

This may not be an improper place to take notice of an argu-
ment which was used in debate in the House of Eepresentatives.
It was there argued, that if the Constitution intended to confer so
important a power as that of erecting corporations, it would have
been expressly mentioned. But the case which has been noticed
is clearly one in which such a power exists, and yet without any
specification or express grant of it, further than as every particu-
lar implied in a general power can be said to be so granted.

But the argument itself is founded upon an exaggerated and
erroneous conception of the nature of the power. It has been
shown that it is not of so transcendent a kind as the reasoning
supposes, and that, viewed in a just light, it is a mean, which
ought to have been left to implication, rather than an end, which
ought to have been expressly granted.

Having ooserved that the power of erecting corporations is

^t. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 119

not expressly granted to Congress, the Attorney-General pro-
ceeds thus : —

"If it can be exercised by them, it must be — ■

" 1. Because the nature of the federal government implies it.

"2. Because it is involved in some of the specified powers of
legislation.

" 3. Because it is necessary and proper to carry into execu-
tion some of the specified powers."

To be implied in the nature of the federal government, says he,
would beget a doctrine so indefinite as to grasp at every power.

This proposition, it ought to be remarked, is not precisely, or
even substantially, that which has been relied upon. The pro-
position relied upon is, that the specified powers of Congress are in
their nature sovereign. That it is incident to sovereign power
to erect corporations, and that therefore Congress have a right,
within the sphere and in relation to the objects of their power, to
erect corporations. It shall, however, be supposed that the Attor-
ney-General would consider the two propositions in the same
light, and that the objection made to the one would be made to
the other.

To this objection an answer has been already given. It is
this, that the doctrine is stated with this express qualification, that
the right to erect corporations does only extend to cases and objects
within the sphere of the specified powers of the government. A
general legislative authority implies a power to erect corporations
in all cases. A particular legislative power implies authority to
erect corporations in relation to cases arising under that power
only. Hence the affirming that, as incident to sovereign power,
Congress may erect a corporation in relation to the collection of
their taxes, is no more than to affirm that they may do whatever
else they please, — than the saying that they have a power to
regulate trade, would be to affirm that they have a power to
regulate religion; or than the maintaining that they have sov-
ereign power as to taxation, would be to maintain that they have
sovereign power as to every thing else.

The Attorney-General undertakes in the next place to show,
that the power of erecting corporations is not involved in any

120 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

of the specified powers of legislation confided to the national
government. In order to this, he has attempted an enumeration
of the particulars, which he supposes to be comprehended under
the several heads of the powers to lay and collect taxes, &c. ; to
borrow money on the credit of the United States ; to regulate
commerce with sovereign nations ; between the States, and with
the Indian tribes ; to dispose of and make all needful rules and
regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging
to the United States. The design of which enumeration is to
show, what is included under those different heads of power, and
negatively, that the power of erecting corporations is not included,

The truth of this inference or conclusion must depend on the
accuracy of the enumeration. If it can be shown that the
enumeration is defective, the inference is destroyed. To do this
will be attended with no difficulty.

The heads of the power to lay and collect taxes are stated
to be:

1. To stipulate the sum to be lent.

2. An interest or no interest to be paid.

3. The time and manner of repaying, unless the loan be
placed on an irredeemable fund.

This enumeration is liable to a variety of objections. It
omits in the first place, the pledging or mortgaginy of a fund for
the security of the money lent, an usual, and in most cases an
essential ingredient.

The idea of a stipulation of an interest or no interest is too
confined. It should rather have been said, to stipulate the con-
sideration of the loan. Individuals often borrow on considera-
tions other than the payment of interest, so may governments,
and so they often find it necessary to do. Every one recollects
the lottery tickets and other douceurs often given in Great Britain
as collateral inducements to the lending of money to the govern-
ment. There are also frequently collateral conditions, which the
enumeration does not contemplate. Every contract which has
been made for moneys borrowed in Holland, induces stipulations
that the sum due shall be free from taxes, and from sequestration
in time of war, and mortgages all the land and property of the
United States for the reimbursement.

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 121

It is also known that a lottery is a common expedient for
borrowing money, which certainly does not fall under either of
the enumerated heads.

The heads of the power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, are stated to be:

1. To prohibit them or their commodities from our ports.

2. To impose duties on them, where none existed before, or to
increase existing duties on them.

3. To subject them to any species of custom-house regulation.

4. To grant them any exemptions or privileges which policy
may suggest.

This enumeration is far more exceptionable than either of the
former. It omits every thing that relates to the citizens7 vessels, or
commodities of the United States.

The following palpable omissions occur at once :

1. Of the power to prohibit the exportation of commodities,
which not only exists at all times, but which in time of war it
would be necessary to exercise, particularly with relation to naval
and warlike stores.

2. Of the power to prescribe rules concerning the characteris-
tics and privileges of an American bottom ; how she shall be
navigated, or whether by citizens or foreigners, or by a propor-
tion of each.

3. Of the power of regulating the manner of contracting with
seamen ; the police of ships on their voyages, &c, of which the
Act for the government and regulation of seamen, in the mer-
chants' service, is a specimen.

That the three preceding articles are omissions, will not be
doubted — there is a long list of items in addition, which admit
of little, if any question, of which a few samples shall be given.

1. The granting of bounties to certain kinds of vessels, and
certain species of merchandise of this nature, is the allowance on
dried and pickled fish and salted provisions.

2. The prescribing of rules concerning the inspection of com-
modities to be exported. Though the States individually are
competent to this regulation, yet there is no reason, in point of
authority at least, why a general system might not be adopted by
the United States.

122 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 34.

3. The regulation of policies of insurance ; of salvage upon
goods found at sea, and the disposition of such goods.

4. The regulation of pilots.

5. The regulation of bills of exchange drawn by a merchant
of one State upon a merchant of another State. This last rather
belongs to the regulation of trade between the States, but is
equally omitted in the specification under that head.

The last enumeration relates to the power to dispose of, and
make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or
other property belonging to the United States.

The heads of this power are said to be :

1. To exert an ownership over the territory of the United
States, which may be properly called the property of the United
States, as in the western territory, and to institute a government
therein, or

2. To exert an ownership over the other property of the
United States.

The idea of exerting an ownership over the territory or other
property of the United States, is particularly indefinite and
vague. It does not at all satisfy the conception of what must
have been intended by a power to make all needful rules and
regulations, nor would there have been any use for a special
clause, which authorized nothing more. For the right of exert-
ing an ownership is implied in the very definition of property.
It is admitted, that in regard to the western territory, something
more is intended ; even the institution of a government, that is,
the creation of a body politic, or corporation of the highest
nature ; one which, in its maturity, will be able itself to create
other corporations. Wiry, then, does not the same clause autho-
rize the erection of a corporation, in respect to the regulation or
disposal of any other of the property of the United States?

This idea will be enlarged upon in another place.

Hence it appears, that the enumerations which have been
attempted by the Attorney-General, are so imperfect, as to autho-
rize no conclusion whatever; they therefore have no tendency
to disprove that each and every of the powers, to Avhich they
relate, includes that of erecting corporations, which they cer-

JEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 123

tainly do, as the subsequent illustrations will more and more
evince.

It is presumed to have been satisfactorily shown in the course
of the preceding observations :

1. That the power of the government, as to the objects in-
trusted to its management, is, in its nature, sovereign.

2. That the right of erecting corporations is one inherent in,
and inseparable from, the idea of sovereign power.

3. That the position, that the government of the United
States can exercise no power but such as is delegated to it by its
Constitution, does not militate against this principle.

4. That the word necessary, in the general clause, can have no
restrictive operation derogating from the force of this principle ;
indeed, that the degree in which a measure is- or is not necessary,
cannot be a test of constitutional right, but of expediency only.

5. That the power to erect corporations is not to be consider-
ed as an independent or substantive power, but as an incidental and
auxiliary one, and was therefore more properly left to implica-
tion, than expressly granted.

6. That the principle in question does not extend the power
of the government beyond the prescribed limits, because it only
affirms a power to incorporate for purposes zuithin the sphere of
the specified poivers.

And lastly, that the right to exercise such a power in certain
cases is unequivocally granted in the most positive and compre-
hensive terms. To all which it only remains to be added, that
such a power has actually been exercised in two very eminent
instances ; namely, in the erection of two governments ; one
northwest of the River Ohio, and the other southwest — the last
independent of any antecedent compact. And these result in a
full and complete demonstration, that the Secretary of State and
Attorney-General are mistaken when they deny generally the
power of the national government to erect corporations.

It shall now be endeavored to be shown that there is a power
to erect one of the kind proposed by the bill. This will be done
by tracing a natural and obvious relation between the institution
of a bank and the objects of several of the enumerated powers

124 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

of the government ; and by showing that, politically speaking, it
is necessary to the effectual execution of one or more of those
powers.

In the course of this investigation, various instances will be
stated, by way of illustration of a right to erect corporations
under those powers.

Some preliminary observations may be proper.

The proposed bank is to consist of an association of persons,
for the purpose of creating a joint capital, to be employed chiefly
and essentially in loans. So far the object is not only lawful, but
it is the mere exercise of a right which the law allows to every
individual. The Bank of New- York, which is not incorporated,
is an example of such an association. The bill proposes in ad-
dition, that the government shall become a joint proprietor in
this undertaking, and that it shall permit the bills of the compa-
ny, payable on demand, to be receivable in its revenues; and
stipulates that it shall not grant privileges, similar to those which
are to be allowed to this company, to any others. All this is
incontrovertibly within the compass of the discretion of the
government. The only question is, whether it has a right to in-
corporate this company, in order to enable it the more effectually
to accomplish ends which are in themselves lawful.

To establish such a right, it remains to show the relation of
such an institution to one or more of the specified powers of the
government. Accordingly it is affirmed that it has a relation,
more or less direct, to the power of collecting taxes, to that of
borrowing money, to that of regulating trade between the States,
and to those of raising and maintaining fleets and armies. To
the two former the relation may be said to be immediate ; and in
the last place it will be argued, that it is clearly within the pro-
vision which authorizes the making of all needful rules and regu-
lations concerning the property of the United States, as the same
has been practised upon by the government.

A bank relates to the collection of taxes in two ways — indi-
rectly, by increasing the quantity of circulating medium and
quickening circulation, which facilitates the means of paying di-
rectly, by creating a convenient species of medium in which they
are to be paid.

jEt.34.] cabinet papers. 125

To designate or appoint the money or thing in which taxes are
to be paid, is not only a proper, but a necessary exercise of the
power of collecting them. Accordingly Congress, in the law con-
cerning the collection of the duties on imposts and tonnage, have
provided that they shall be paid in gold and silver. But while
it was an indispensable part of the work to say in what they
should be paid, the choice of the specific thing was mere matter
of discretion. The payment might have been required in the
commodities themselves. Taxes in kind, however ill-judged, are
not without precedents, even in the United States ; or it might
have been in the paper money of the several States, or in the
bills of the Bank of North America, New- York and Massachu-
setts, all or either of them ; or it might have been in bills issued
under the authority of the United States.

No part of this can, it is presumed, be disputed. The ap-
pointment, then, of the money or thing in which the taxes are to
be paid, is an incident to the power of collection. And among
the expedients which may be adopted, is that of bills issued un-
der the authority of the United States.

Now the manner of issuing these bills is again matter of dis-
cretion. The government might doubtless proceed in the follow-
ing manner :

It might provide that they should be issued under the direc-
tion of certain officers, payable on demand ; and, in order to
support their credit, and give them a ready circulation, it might,
besides giving them a currency in its taxes, set apart, out of any
moneys in its treasury, a given sum, and appropriate it, under
the direction of those officers, as a fund for answering the bills,
as presented for payment.

The constitutionality of all this would not admit of a ques-
tion, and yet it would amount to the institution of a bank, with
a view to the more convenient collection of taxes. For the sim-
plest and most precise idea of a bank is, a deposit of coin, or
other property, as a fund for circulating a credit upon it, which is
to answer the purpose of money. That such an arrangement
would be equivalent to the establishment of a bank, would be-
come obvious, if the place where the fund to be set apart was

126 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

kept should be made a receptacle of the moneys of all other per-
sons who should incline to deposit them there for safe-keeping ; and
would become still more so, if the officers charged with the direc-
tion of the fund were authorized to make discounts at the usual
rate of interest, upon good security. To deny the power of the
government to add these ingredients to the plan, would be to
refine away all government.

A further process will still more clearly illustrate the point.
Suppose, when the species of bank which has been described was
about to be instituted, it was to be urged that, in order to secure
to it a due degree of confidence, the fund ought not only to be
set apart and appropriated generally, but ought to be specifically
vested in the officers who were to have the direction of it, and in
their successors in office, to the end that it might acquire the
character of private property, incapable of being resumed without
a violation of the sanctions by which the rights of property are
protected, and occasioning more serious and general alarm — the
apprehension of which might operate as a check upon the gov-
ernment. Such a proposition might be opposed by arguments
against the expediency of it, or the solidity of the reason as-
signed for it, but it is not conceivable what could be urged
against its constitutionality ; and yet such a disposition of the
thing would amount to the erection of a corporation ; for the
true definition of a corporation seems to be this : It is a legal per-
son, or a person created by act of law, consisting of one or
more natural persons authorized to hold property, or a franchise
in succession, in a legal, as contradistinguished from natural,
capacity.

Let the illustration proceed a step further. Suppose a bank
of the nature which has been described, with or without incorpo-
ration, had been instituted, and that experience had evinced, as
it probably would, that, being wholly under a public direction,
it possessed not the confidence requisite to the credit of the bills.
Suppose, also, that, by some of those adverse conjunctures which
occasionally attend nations, there had been a very great drain of
the specie of the country, so as not only to cause general distress
for want of an adequate medium of circulation, but to produce,

Mt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 127

in consequence of that circumstance, considerable defalcations in
the public revenues. Suppose, also, that there was no bank
instituted in any State ; in such a posture of things, would it not
be most manifest, that the incorporation of a bank like that
proposed by the bill would be a measure immediately relative to
the effectual collection of the taxes, and completely within the pro-
vince of the sovereign power of providing, by all laws necessary
and proper, for that collection ? If it be said, that such a state of
things would render that necessary, and therefore constitutional,
which is not so now, the answer to this, and a solid one it doubt-
less is, must still be that which has been already stated — circum-
stances may affect the expediency of the measure, but they can
neither add to nor diminish its constitutionality.

A bank has a direct relation to the power of borrowing
money, because it is an usual, and in sudden emergencies an
essential, instrument in the obtaining of loans to government.

A nation is threatened with a war ; large sums are wanted on
a sudden to make the requisite preparations. Taxes are laid for
the purpose, but it requires time to obtain the benefit of them.
Anticipation is indispensable. If there be a bank, the supply
can at once be had. If there be none, loans from individuals
must be sought. The progress of these is often too slow for the
exigency; in some situations they are not practicable at all.
Frequently, when they are, it is of great consequence to be able
to anticipate the product of them by advance from a bank.

The essentiality of such an institution as an instrument of
loans, is exemplified at this very moment. An Indian expedi-
tion is to be prosecuted. The only fund, out of which the money
can arise, consistently with the public engagements, is a tax,
which only begins to be collected in July next. The prepara-
tions, however, are instantly to be made. The money must,
therefore, be borrowed — and of whom could it be borrowed it
there were no public banks ?

It happens that there are institutions of this kind, but if there
were none, it would be indispensable to create one.

Let it then be supposed that the necessity existed, (as but for
a casualty would be the case,) that proposals were made for ob-

128 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

taining a loan ; that a number of individuals name forward and
said, we are willing to accommodate the government with the
money ; with what we have in hand, and the credit we can raise
upon it, we doubt not of being able to furnish the sum required ;
but in order to this, it is indispensable that we should be incor-
porated as a bank. This is essential towards putting it in our
power to do what is desired; and we are obliged on that account
to make it the consideration or condition of the loan.

Can it be believed that a compliance with this proposition
would be unconstitutional ? Does not this alone evince the con-
trary ? It is a necessary part of a power to borrow, to be able
to stipulate the consideration or conditions of a loan. It is
evident, as has been remarked elsewhere, that this is not confined
to the mere stipulation of a franchise. If it may, and it is not
perceived why it may not, then the grant of a corporate capacity
may be stipulated as a consideration of the loan. There seems
to be nothing unfit or foreign from the nature of the thing in
giving individuality, or a corporate capacity to a number of per-
sons, who are willing to lend a sum of money to the govern-
ment, the better to enable them to do it, and make them an
ordinary instrument of loans in future emergencies of the state.
But the more general view of the subject is still more satisfac-
tory. The legislative power of borrowing money, and of making
all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution that
power, seems obviously competent to the appointment of the
organ, through which the abilities and wills of individuals may
be most efficaciously exerted for the accommodation of the
government by loans.

The Attorney-General opposes to this reasoning the following
observation : — " Borrowing money presupposes the accumulation
of a fund to be lent, and is secondary to the creation of an ability
to lend." This is plausible in theory, but is not true in fact. In
a great number of cases, a previous accumulation of a fund equal
to the whole sum required does not exist. And nothing more
can be actually presupposed, than that there exists resources,
which, put into activity to the greatest advantage by the nature
of the operation with the government, will be equal to the effect

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 129

desired to be produced. All the provisions and operations of
government must be presumed to contemplate as they really are.

The institution of a bank has also a natural relation to the
regulation of trade between the States, in so far as it is conducive
to the creation of a convenient medium of exchange between them,
and to the keeping up a full circulation, by preventing the
frequent displacement of the metals in reciprocal remittances.
Money is the very hinge on which commerce turns. And this
does not merely mean gold and silver ; many other things have
served the purpose, with different degrees of utility. Paper has
been extensively employed.

It cannot, therefore, be admitted, with the Attorney-General,
that the regulation of trade between the States, as it concerns
the medium of circulation and exchange, ought to be considered
as confined to coin. It is even supposable that the whole, or
the greatest part, of the coin of the country might be carried out
of it.

The Secretary of State objects to the relation here insisted
upon, by the following mode of reasoning: — To erect a bank,
says he, and to regulate commerce, are very different acts. He
who creates a bank, creates a subject of commerce ; so does he
who makes a bushel of wheat, or digs a dollar out of the mines ;
yet neither of these persons regulate commerce thereby. To
make a thing which may be bought and sold, is not to prescribe
regulations for buying and selling.

This making the regulation of commerce to consist in pre-
scribing rules for buying and selling — this, indeed, is a species of
regulation of trade, but is one which falls more aptly within the
province of the local jurisdictions than within that of the general
government, whose care they must be presumed to have been
intended to be directed to those general political arrangements
concerning trade on which its aggregate interests depend, rather
than to the details of buying and selling. Accordingly, such only
are the regulations to be found in the laws of the United States,
whose objects are to give encouragement to the enterprise of
our own merchants, and to advance our navigation and manu-
factures. And it is in reference to these general relations of
d 9

130 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

commerce, that an establishment which furnishes facilities to cir-
culation, and a convenient medium of exchange and alienation,
is to be regarded as a regulation of trade.

The Secretary of State further argues, that if this was a regu-
lation of commerce, it would be void, as extending as much to the
internal commerce of every State as to its external. But what regu-
lation of commerce does not extend to the internal commerce of
every State ? What are all the duties upon imported articles,
amounting to prohibitions, but so many bounties upon domestic
manufactures, affecting the interests of different classes of citizens,
in different ways ? What are all the provisions in the Coasting
Act which relate to the trade between district and district of the
same State? In short, what regulation of trade between the
States but must affect the internal trade of each State ? What
can operate upon the whole but must extend to every part ?

The relation of a bank to the execution of the powers that
concern the common defence, has been anticipated. It has been
noted, that, at this very moment, the aid of such an institution is
essential to the measures to be pursued for the protection of our
frontiers.

It now remains to show, that the incorporation of a bank is
within the operation of the provision which authorizes Congress
to make all needful rules and regulations concerning the property
of the United States. But it is previously necessary to advert to
a distinction which has been taken by the Attorney-General.

He admits that the word property may signify personal pro-
perty, however acquired, and yet asserts that it cannot signify
money arising from the sources of revenue pointed out in the
Constitution, " because," says he, "the disposal and regulation of
money is the final cause for raising it by taxes."

But it would be more accurate to say that the object to which
money is intended to be applied is the final cause for raising it.
than that the disposal and regulation of it is such.

The support of government — the support of troops for the
common defence — the payment of the public debt, are the true
final causes for raising money. The disposition and regulation
of it, when raised, are the steps by which it is applied to the ends

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 131

for which it was raised, not the ends themselves. Hence, there-
fore, the money to be raised by taxes, as well as any other per-
sonal property, must be supposed to come within the meaning, as
they certainly do within the letter, of authority to make all
needful rules and regulations concerning the property of the
United States.

A case will make this plainer. Suppose the public debt dis-
charged, and the funds now pledged for it liberated. In some in-
stances it would be found expedient to repeal the taxes ; in others,
the repeal might injure our own industry, our agriculture and
manufactures. In these cases they would, of course, be retained.
Here, then, would be moneys arising from the authorized sources
of revenue, which would not fall within the rule by which the
Attorney-General endeavors to except them from other personal
property, and from the operation of the clause in question. The
moneys being in the coffers of government, what is to hinder
such a disposition to be made of them as is contemplated in the
bill ; or what an incorporation of the parties concerned, under
the clause which has been cited ?

It is admitted, that with regard to the western territory they
give a power to erect a corporation — that is, to institute a gov-
ernment ; and by what rule of construction can it be maintained,
that the same words in a constitution of government will not
have the same effect when applied to one species of property as
to another, as far as the subject is capable of it? — Or that a legis-
lative power to make all needful rules and regulations, or to pass
all laws necessary and proper, concerning the public property,
which is admitted to authorize an incorporation in one case, will
not authorize it in another? — will justify the institution of a
government over the western territory, and will not justify the
incorporation of a bank for the more useful management of the
moneys of the United States ? If it will do the last, as well as
the first, then, under this provision alone, the bill is constitu-
tional, because it contemplates that the United States shall be
joint proprietors of the stock of the bank.

There is an observation of the Secretary of State to this effect,
which may require notice in this place : — Congress, says he, are

132 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

not to lay taxes ad libitum, for any purpose they phase, but only to
pay the debts or provide for the welfare of the Union. Certainly
no inference can be drawn from this against the power of apply-
ing their money for the institution of a bank. It is true that
they cannot without breach of trust lay taxes for any other
purpose than the general welfare ; but so neither can any other
government. The welfare of the community is the only legiti-
mate end for which money can be raised on the community.
Congress can be considered as under only one restriction which
does not apply to other governments, — they cannot rightfully
apply the money they raise to any purpose merely or purely
local. But, with this exception, they have as large a discretion
in relation to the application of money as any legislature what-
ever. The constitutional test of a right application must always
be, whether it be for a purpose of general or local nature. If the
former, there can be no want of constitutional power. The qual-
ity of the object, as how far it will really promote or not the
welfare of the Union, must be matter of conscientious discretion,
and the arguments for or against a measure in this light must be
arguments concerning expediency or inexpediency, not consti-
tutional right. Whatever relates to the general order of the
finances, to the general interests of trade, &c, being general ob-
jects, are constitutional ones for the application of money.

A bank, then, wTaose bills are to circulate in all the revenues
of the country, is evidently a general object, and, for that very
reason, a constitutional one, as far as regards the appropriation
of money to it. Whether it will really be a beneficial one or
not, is worthy of careful examination, but is no more a con-
stitutional point, in the particular referred to, than the question,
whether the western lands snail be sold for twenty or thirty
cents per acre.

A hope is entertained that it has, by this time, been made to
appear, to the satisfaction of the President, that a bank has a
natural relation to the power of collecting taxes — to that of regu-
lating trade — to that of providing for the common defence — and
that, as the bill under consideration contemplates the govern-
ment in the light of a joint proprietor of the stock of the bank,

Mt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 133

it brings the case within the provision of the clause of the Con-
stitution which immediately respects the property of the United
States.

Under a conviction that such a relation subsists, the Secre-
tary of the Treasury, with all deference, conceives, that it will
result as a necessary consequence from the position, that all the
specified powers of government are sovereign, as to the proper
objects ; that the incorporation of a bank is a constitutional,
measure ; and that the objections taken to the bill, in this re-
spect, are ill-founded.

But, from an earnest desire to give the utmost possible satis-
faction to the mind of the President, on so delicate and important
a subject, the Secretary of the Treasury will ask his indulgence,
while he gives some additional illustrations of cases in which a
power of erecting corporations may be exercised, under some of
those heads of the specified powers of the government, which are
alleged to include the right of incorporating a bank.

1. It does not appear susceptible of a doubt, that if Congress
had thought proper to provide, in the collection laws, that the
bonds to be given for the duties should be given to the collector
of the district, A or B, as the case might require, to enure to
him and his successors in office, in trust for the United States,
that it would have been consistent with the Constitution to make
such an arrangement ; and yet this, it is conceived, would amount
to an incorporation.

2. It is not an unusual expedient of taxation to form particu-
lar branches of revenue — that is, to mortgage or sell the product
of them for certain definite sums, leaving the collection to the
parties to whom they are mortgaged or sold. There are even
examples of this in the United States. Suppose that there was
any particular branch of revenue which it was manifestly ex-
pedient to place on this footing, and there were a number of
persons willing to engage with the government, upon con-
dition that they should be incorporated, and the sums vested in
them, as well for their greater safety, as for the more convenient
recovery and management of the taxes. Is it supposable that
there could be any constitutional obstacle to the measure ? It is

134 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

presumed that there could be none. It is certainly a mode of
collection which it would be in the discretion of the government
to adopt, though the circumstances must be very extraordinary
that would induce the Secretary to think it expedient.

3. Suppose a new and unexplored branch of trade should
present itself, with some foreign country. Suppose it was mani-
fest, that to undertake it with advantage required an union of
•the capitals of a number of individuals, and that those individu-
als would not be disposed to embark without an incorporation,
as well to qbviate that consequence of a private partnership
which makes every individual liable in his whole estate for the
debts of the company, to their utmost extent, as for the more
convenient management of the business — what reason can there
be to doubt that the national government would have a constitu-
tional right to institute and incorporate such a company?
None. They possess a general authority to regulate trade with
foreign countries. This is a mean, which has been practised to
that end, by all the principal commercial nations, who have
trading companies to this day, which have subsisted for centu-
ries. Why may not the United States, constitutionally, employ
the means usual in other countries, for attaining the ends in-
trusted to them ?

A power to make all needful rules and regulations con-
cerning territory, has been construed to mean a power to erect a
government. A power to regulate trade, is a power to make all
needful rules and regulations concerning trade. Why may it
not, then, include that of erecting a trading company, as well as,
in other cases, to erect a government ?

It is remarkable that the State conventions, who had proposed
amendments in relation to this point, have most, if not all of
them, expressed themselves nearly thus: Congress shall not
grant monopolies, nor erect any company with exclusive advan-
tages of commerce ! Thus, at the same time, expressing their
sense, that the power to erect trading companies or corporations
was inherent in Congress, and objecting to it no further than as
to the grant of exclusive privileges.

The Secretary entertains all the doubts which prevail con-

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 135

cerning the utility of such companies, but he cannot fashion to
his own mind a reason, to induce a doubt, that there is a con-
stitutional authority in the United States to establish them. If
such a reason were demanded, none could be given, unless it
were this : That Congress cannot erect a corporation. Which
would be no better than to say, they cannot do it, because they
cannot do it — first presuming an inability, without reason, and
then assigning that inability as the cause of itself. Illustrations
of this kind might be multiplied without end. They shall, how-
ever, be pursued no further.

There is a sort of evidence on this point, arising from an
aggregate view of the Constitution, which is of no inconsiderable
weight : the very general power of laying and collecting taxes,
and appropriating their proceeds — that of borrowing money in-
definitely— that of coining money, and regulating foreign coins
— that of making all needful rules and regulations respecting the
property of the United States. These powers combined, as well
as the reason and nature of the thing, speak strongly this lan-
guage : that it is the manifest design and scope of the Consti-
tution to vest in Congress all the powers requisite to the effectual
administration of the finances of the United States. As far
as concerns this object, there appears to be no parsimony of
power.

To suppose, then, that the government is precluded from the
employment of so usual and so important an instrument for the
administration of its finances as that of a bank, is to suppose
what does not coincide with the general tenor and complexion
of the Constitution, and what is not agreeable to impressions
that any new spectator would entertain concerning it.

Little less than a prohibitory clause can destroy the strong
presumptions which result from the general aspect of the govern-
ment. Nothing but demonstration should exclude the idea that
the power exists.

In all questions of this nature, the practice of mankind ought
to have great weight against the theories of individuals.

The fact, for instance, that all the principal commercial
nations have made use of trading corporations or companies, for

136 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 34

the purpose of external commerce, is a satisfactory proof that the
establishment of them is an incident to the regulation of the
commerce.

This other fact, that banks are an usual engine in the adminis-
tration of national finances, and an ordinary and the most effec-
tual instrument of loan, and one which, in this country, has been
found essential, pleads strongly against the supposition that a
government, clothed with most of the most important preroga-
tives of sovereignty in relation to its revenues, its debts, its
credits, its defence, its trade, its intercourse with foreign nations,
is forbidden to make use of that instrument as an appendage to
its own authority.

It has been stated as an auxiliary test of constitutional autho-
rity to try whether it abridges any pre-existing right of any
State, or any individual. The proposed investigation will stand
the most severe examination on this point. Each State may still
erect as many banks as it pleases. Every individual may still
carry on the banking business to any extent he pleases.

Another criterion may be this : whether the institution or
thing has a more direct relation, as to its uses, to the objects of
the reserved powers of the State governments than to those of
the powers delegated by the United States. This rule, indeed, is
less precise than the former ; but it may still serve as some guide.
Surely a bank has more reference to the objects intrusted to the
national government than to those left to the care of the State
governments. The common defence is decisive in this compa-
rison.

It is presumed that nothing of consequence in the observa-
tions of the Secretary of State, and Attorney-General, has been
left unnoticed.

There are, indeed, a variety of observations of the Secretary
of State designed to show that the utilities ascribed to a bank,
in relation to the collection of taxes, and to trade, could be ob-
tained without it ; to analyze which, would prolong the discus-
sion beyond all bounds. It shall be forborne for two reasons.
First, because the report concerning the bank, may speak for
itself in this respect ; and secondly, because all those observa-

vEt.34.] cabinet papers. 137

tions are grounded on the erroneous idea that the quantum of
necessity or utility is the test of a constitutional exercise of power.

One or two remarks only shall be made. One is, that he has
taken no notice of a very essential advantage to trade in general,
which is mentioned in the report, as peculiar to the existence of
a bank circulation, equal in the public estimation to gold and
silver. It is this that renders it unnecessary to lock up the money
of the country, to accumulate for months sucessively, in order to
the periodical payment of interest. The other is this : that his
arguments to show that treasury orders and bills of exchange,
from the course of trade, will prevent any considerable displace-
ment of the metals, are founded on a particular view of the
subject. A case will prove this. The sums collected in a State
may be small in comparison with the debt due to it ; the balance
of its trade, direct and circuitous with the seat of government,
may be even, or nearly so; here, then, without bank bills, which
in that State answer the purpose of coin, there must be a dis-
placement of the coin, in proportion to the difference between
the sum collected in the State, and that to be paid in it. With
bank bills, no such displacement would take place, or as far as it
did, it would be gradual and insensible. In many other ways,
also, would there be at least a temporary and inconvenient dis-
placement of the coin, even where the course of trade would
eventually return it to its proper channels.

The difference of the two situations in point of convenience
to the treasury, can only be appreciated by one, who expe-
riences the embarrassments of making provision for the payment
of the interest on a stock, continually changing place in thirteen
different places.

One thing which has been omitted, just occurs, although it is
not very material to the main argument. The Secretary of State
affirms that the bill only contemplates a repayment, not a loan,
to the government. But here he is certainly mistaken. It is
true the government invests in the stock of the bank a sum
equal to that which it receives on loan. But let it be remem-
bered, that it does not, therefore, cease to be a proprietor of the
stock, which would be the case, if the money received back were

138 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 34.

in the nature of a payment. It remains a proprietor still, and
will share in the profit or loss of the institution, according as
the dividend is more or less than the interest it is to pay on the
sum borrowed. Hence that sum is manifestly, and in the strict-
est sense, a loan.

SHORT TO HAMILTON.

Amsterdam, Feb. 17, 1791.

Sir:

I have the honor to inform you at present that a loan for the
United States for two millions and an half of guilders was brought
on the market the day before yesterday morning ; the terms are
the same with the last, except that the commission is reduced
one half per cent. ; the form of the bond is now making out, and
as soon as completed I will send you a copy of it. I think you
will learn with pleasure, sir, that this loan (of which the rate of
interest is the same with that paid by the most accredited powers
here, and of which the commission is one-half of that paid by
some and lower than that paid by any except the Emperor, who
has no further occasion for money, and who paid the same), was
all taken up and contracted for in less than two hours after being
published on the exchange ; a celerity of which I am told there
has been no instance here before in loans for any country. This
circumstance cannot fail to give a very favorable impulsion to
the credit to which the United States are so justly entitled, and
facilitate the views they may have here in future. I must add, also,
that the accounts which are received here of the happy effects of
our new constitution and the confidence which its present admin-
istration has inspired at this place, are the real and efficient
causes of the prosperous situation of the credit of the United
States. This consideration is the more agreeable as it shows that
it is dependent on themselves, and not merely on the manage-
ment or credit of agents or other temporary and uncertain means
which other powers are sometimes obliged to employ. It cannot

iET. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 139

be denied, however, that the time and manner of bringing a loan
on the market has much influence on the facility with which it is
carried through, and that the present is a favorable moment for
loans in general, and for those of the United States in particular.
I mentioned to you in my letter of Dec. 2, that the commis-
sioners of the United States wished much to fix the loans at
three, instead of two and a half millions of guilders. I was sen-
sible of the propriety of their observations, which I have already
communicated to you ; but I declined acceding, without mention-
ing to them the only true reason, which was your instruction on
that head. On the loan being carried off with so much rapidity,
they have renewed their observations, and joined to them other
reasons for extending it to three millions, which they have press-
ed on me repeatedly since, with a warmth which I did not ex-
pect. The principal reason, and that on which they seemed to
dwell with most earnestness, is the necessity of keeping the under-
takers well disposed ; that in order to do this, it is found necessary
to give them all a part in loans which are received favorably,
that they may be disposed to take a part also, if at any time the
moment should be less favorable ; that not foreseeing the very
great demand there could be for this loan, they had allowed the
undertakers, as they presented themselves, to subscribe for as
much as they chose, by which means there was no part left for
those who came last. They add, that by extending it to three mil-
lions they could satisfy them, and that otherwise these people, at
a future time, should the United States wish to make a loan,
might, from ill humor or resentment, decline their aid. Whether
this be the true cause or not of the tenacity with which the com-
missioners adhere to this desire, I cannot say. I am sensible,
however, of the weight of the undertakers in loans, and of the
propriety of not disobliging them ; still I cannot apprehend
much from their resentment in a case like this. It seems to me,
on the contrary, that the loan being not pushed now as far as it
might be, would rather render them more forward in the case of
another being brought on the market. The commissioners how-
ever seem to be fully of a different opinion, and as it is an affair
of mere locality, they must necessarily be better acquainted with

140 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

it than I am. They seem somewhat mortified that I should not
therefore follow their advice respecting it. They gave me to
understand that I might extend the loan, if I judged proper to
make use of this favorable moment, to four millions, which is
beyond the ordinary size of loans, and are much astonished at
my not doing it. I have not informed them of the true cause of
it, for a reason which seems to me sufficient — that it is not ne-
cessary.

I have lately received a letter from Mr. Gouv'r Morris, at
Paris, in which he informs me that he is well persuaded a loan for
about a million of dollars could have been made for the United
States some months ago in a place not in Holland (he does not
say what place), on the following terms : " The sum to have been
at the order of the Secretary of the Treasury, at .fixed terms,
and the interest to commence from those terms at five per cent.
For commissions, charges, and bonus, with the express undertak-
ing for the money, about four per cent." He adds, that having
understood from me that my powers were confined to Holland,
he gave those who had applied to him information that nothing
could be done for the present, viz. at the time of his speaking to
me, which was a day or two before I left Paris. I did not sup-
pose, from what he then said, that any proposals had been made
to him, and I should not have thought it prudent to have risked
an experiment any where without an absolute certainty of suc-
cess, for a variety of reasons which will naturally present them-
selves to you. Under those circumstances I did not perhaps go
into any explanations which could give Mr. Morris a true idea of
the nature of my powers. This appeared to me the less necessary
also, because having no intention of making more than one loan
before I again heard from }^ou, and not being able to entertain a
doubt that that could be done more advantageously here than
elsewhere, I did not see any means at that time of making an
experiment elsewhere. Mr. Morris adds also in his letter, that
he "will not pretend to say whether such a loan could be made
at present, because a great part of the disposable cash is proba-
bly applied ; but that if I wish to know, he will make inquiry ;
but would not wish to meddle in it, unless I think it could be

.Et. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 141

brought to something." I am so fully sensible of the advantages
which would result from the United States being able to make
loans, if they should choose it, in more than one place, that I
have thought Mr. Morris's idea not to be neglected, and yet I
see no means of making use of it at present. I have therefore
answered him, that my wishes were that he would make such
inquiries as would reduce that matter to as much certainty as
possible, as nothing could justify an experiment, without the suc-
cess being previously ascertained ; that I had no reason to be-
lieve, at present, that I should wish to undertake such a loan
before April or May ; but that there was so great a presumption
that a loan out of Holland would then or sooner be agreeable,
that I thought nryself authorized in asking him to make the in-
quiry ; that as to the terms, I would say nothing at present, as
they would of course be to be settled at the time of making the
loan.

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

March, 1791.

Mr. Hamilton presents his respectful compliments to the
Secretary of State. He has perused, with as much care and
attention as time has permitted, the draft of a letter in answer to
that of Mr. Hammond, of March 5th.

Much strong ground has been taken, and strongly maintained,
particularly in relation to

The recommendatory clauses of the treaty,

The previous infractions by Great Britain, as to negroes and
posts,

The question of interest.

And many of the suggestions of the British minister, concern-
ing particular acts and adjudications, as far as can be judged
without consulting the documents, appear to be satisfactorily
obviated.

But doubts arise in the following particulars :

142 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

1st. The expediency of the retaliation on the 1st, 2d, and 3d
pages. Much of the propriety of what is said depends on the
question of the original right or ivrong of the war. Should it
lead to observations on that point, it may involve an awkward
and irritating discussion. Will it not be more dignified, as well
as more discreet, to observe, concisely and generally, on the im-
propriety of having deduced imputations from transactions
during the war, and (alluding in the aggregate, and without spe-
cification, to the instances of legislative warfare on the part of
the British parliament, which might be recriminated) to say that
this is forborne, as leading to an unprofitable and unconciliating
discussion ?

2d. The soundness of the doctrine (page 4), that all govern-
mental acts of the States prior to the 11th of April are out of the
discussion. Does not the term " subjects" to whom, according to
Yatel, notice is necessary, apply merely to individuals? Are
not States members of the federal league, tho parties contractantes,
" who are bound by the treaty itself, from the time of its con-
clusion ; that is, in the present case, from the time the provisional
treaty took effect, by the ratification of the preliminary articles
between France and Britain?"

3d. The expediency of so full a justification of the proceed-
ings of certain States with regard to debts. In this respect,
extenuation rather than vindication would seem to be the desira-
ble course. It is an obvious truth, and is so stated, that Con-
gress alone has the right to pronounce a breach of the treaty, and
to fix the measure of retaliation. Not having done it, the States
which undertook the task for them, contravened both their fede-
ral duty and the treaty. Do not some of the acts of Congress
import that the thing was viewed by that body in this light ?
Will it be well for the Executive now to implicate itself in too
strong a defence of measures which have been regarded by a
great proportion of the Union, and by a respectable part of the
citizens of almost every State, as exceptionable in various lights ?
May not too earnest an apology for instalment and paper money
laws, if made public hereafter, tend to prejudice, somewhat, the
cause of good government, and perhaps to affect disadvantage-
ously the character of the general government ?

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 143

To steer between too much concession and too much justifica-
tion in this particular, is a task both difficult and delicate ; but it
is worthy of the greatest circumspection to accomplish it.

4. The expediency of risking the implication of the tacit ap-
probation of Congress of the " retaliations of four States " by
saying that they neither gave nor refused their sanction to those
retaliations. Will not the national character stand better if no
ground to suspect the connivance of the national government is
afforded ? Is it not the fact that Congress were inactive specta-
tors of the infractions which took place, because they had no
effectual power to control them ?

5. The truth of the position, which seems to be admitted
(page 57), that the quality of alien enemy subsisted till the defini-
tive treaty. Does not an indefinite cessation of hostilities, founded
too on a preliminary treaty, put an end to the state of war, and
consequently destroy the relation of alien enemy ?

The state of war may or may not revive if points which
remain to be adjusted by a definitive treaty are never adjusted by
such a treaty ; but it is conceived that a definitive treaty may never
take place, and yet the state of war and all its consequences be
completely terminated.

6. The expediency of grounding any argument on the suppo-
sition of either parties being in the wrong (as in page 65). The
rule in construing treaties is to suppose both parties in the right,
for want of a common judge, &c. And a departure from this rule
in argument might possibly lead to unpleasant recrimination.

The foregoing are the principal points that have occurred on
one perusal. They are submitted without reserve. Some lesser
matters struck, which would involve too lengthy a commentary.
Many of them merely respecting particular expressions. A
mark + is in the margin of the places, which will probably suggest
to the Secretary of State, on revision, the nature of the reflections
which may have arisen. It is imagined that there is a small mis-
take in stating that Waddington paid no rent.

144 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

JEFFERSON TO HAMILTON.

March, 1791.

First Objection. — " The retaliatory clause is struck out, and only
a general allusion to the instances of legislative warfare by the
British Parliament is proposed."

Second Objection. — "As to matters of treaty, the State gov-
ernments were mere subjects. Their action, like those of corpora-
tions in England, or like any other individuals, can only be
governed by the promulgation ; which, therefore, is the term for
their conformity. They are the l sujets' of Vatel, and ' subditi '
of Wolf in the passages before referred to."

Third Objection. — "It cannot be disputed that Great Britain
has been guilty of the first infractions — that these infractions
have been highly injurious to us. I am therefore of opinion
that Great Britain cannot say we have done wrong in retarding,
in the moderate degree we have done, execution of some parts of
the treaty, as an equivalent to what she had previously refused
to fulfil on her part ; that she cannot found on that any claim of
indemnification for debts lost by lapse of time ; and that the jus-
tifiable rights of our country ought not to be given up by those
whom they have appointed and trusted to defend them where
they may be justly defended."

Fourth Objection. — " The passage here alluded to is in the
recapitulation, § 8. It is struck out, and stands now — see
letter."

Fifth Objection. — "I rather consider a preliminary treaty as
establishing certain heads of agreement, and a truce till these and
others can be definitively arranged ; as suspending acts of hos-
tility, and as not changing the legal character of enemy into that
of friend. However, as this might be susceptible of a contradic-
tion not worth our while to excite in this instance, I have struck
out all affirmation of the position."

Sixth Objection. — "The word wrong in the passage here al-
luded to is struck out, and the word act substituted. "We may
sa}r with truth that it was by their act we were hindered from

Mt.U.] cabinet papers. 145

paying interest. While not qualifying it with the epithet of
either right or wrong they are free to consider it as the former,
while we do tacitly as the latter."

" Wherever the mark X has been found, and its object under-
stood, the passage has been corrected. They seem principally
to have been affixed to those passages susceptible of being soft-
ened in the manner of expression ; in some instances they were
not understood. The mistake in the case of Waddington and
Eutgers is corrected."

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon. April 4, 1791.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 27th ultimo came duly to hand. For the
information given in it, and for the notes which accompanied the
same, I thank you.

Every expedient, as I believe you know, is tried to avert a
war with the hostile tribes of Indians, and to keep those who are
in treaty with us in good humor ; but I am almost thoroughly
convinced that neither will be effected, or, if effected, will be of
short duration, whilst land-jobbing, and the disorderly conduct
of our borderers, are suffered with impunity, and while the
States individually are omitting no occasion to intermeddle in
matters which belong to the general government.

It is not more than four or five months since the Six Nations,
or part of them, through the medium of Colonel Pickering, were
assured, that henceforward they would be spoken to by the gov-
ernment of the United States only ; and the same thing was re-
peated in strong terms to Cornplanter, at Philadelphia, afterwards.
Now, as appears by the extract from Mr. King, the legislature of
New-York are going into some negotiations with these very peo-
ple. What must this evince to them ? Why, that we pursue no
system, and that there is no reliance on any of our declarations.

D 10

146 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

To sum the whole up into a few words, the interference of States,
and the speculations of individuals, will be the bane of all our
public measures.

WASHINGTON TO SECRETARIES OF STATE, TREASURY, AND WAR.

Mount Vernon, April 4, 1791.

Gentlemen :

As the public service may require that communications
should be made to me during my absence from the seat of gov-
ernment, by the most direct conveyances ; and as, in the event of
any extraordinary occurrence, it will be necessary to know at
what time I may be found at any particular place ; I have to
inform you, that, unless the progress of my journey to Savannah
is retarded by unforeseen interruptions, it will be regulated,
including days of halt, in the following manner : — I shall be on
the 8th of April at Fredericksburg, the 16 th at Halifax, the 18th
at Tarborough, the 20th at Newbern, on the 24th at Wilming-
ton, 29th at Georgetown, South Carolina ; on the 2d of May at
Charleston, halting there five days ; on the 11th at Savannah,
halting there two days. Thence, leaving the line of the mail, I
shall proceed to Augusta ; and according to the information
which I may receive there my return by an upper road will be
regulated.

The route of my return is at present uncertain, but, in all
probability, it will be through Columbia, Camden, Charlotte,
Salisbury, Salem, Guilford, Hillsborough, Harrisburg, Williams-
burg, to Taylor's Ferry on the Roanoke, and thence to Frede-
ricksburg by the nearest and best road.

After thus explaining to you, as far as I am able at present,
the direction and probable progress of my journey, I have to
express my wish, if any serious and important cases (of which
the probability is but too strong) should arise during my absence,
that the Secretaries of the departments of State, Treasury, and

;Et. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 147

War may hold consultations thereon, to determine whether they
are of such a nature as to demand my personal attendance at the
seat of government ; and should they be so considered, I will
return immediately from any place at which the information
may reach me. Or, should they determine that measures rele-
vant to the case may be legally and properly pursued without
the immediate agency of the President, I will approve and ratify
the measures which may be conformed to such determination.

Presuming that the Vice-President will have left the seat of
government for Boston, I have not requested his opinion to be
taken on the supposed emergency ; should it be otherwise, I wish
him also to be consulted.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM DUER.

Treasury Department, April 7, 1791.

Sir:

In consideration of the moderate terms of Mr. Fowler's con-
tract with the public, and from a disposition to give all requisite
aid to the contractor, in order that the public service may be
effectually and certainly performed, I accede to the requests con-
tained in your letter, as explained in conversation ; that is to say,
I will advance immediately to you, as agent of Mr. Fowler, thirty
thousand dollars, and a further sum of twenty thousand dollars
at the expiration of forty -five days from the date of this letter.

If, on the first of October next, there is a satisfactory evidence
that the public service has called for supplies (which have been
furnished) to an amount sufficient to entitle the contractor to an
additional sum of thirty thousand dollars, they shall be paid,
though he should not be then ready to comply with the forms of
the treasury.

148 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON *

April 10, 1791.
***** It is to be lamented, that our system is such as still
to leave the public peace of the Union at the mercy of each State
government. This is not only the case as it regards direct inter-
ferences, but as it regards the inability of the national govern-
ment, in many particulars, to take those direct measures for car-
rying into execution its views and engagements which exigences
require. For example ; a party comes from a county of Virginia
into Pennsylvania, and wantonly murders some friendly Indians.
The national government, instead of having power to apprehend
the murderers and bring them to justice, is obliged to make a
representation to that of Pennsylvania; that of Pennsylvania,
again, is to make a representation to that of Virginia. And
whether the murderers shall be brought to justice at all, must
depend upon the particular policy and energy and good disposi-
tion of two State governments, and the efficacy of the provisions
of their respective laws ; and the security of other States, and
the money of all, are at the discretion of one. These things
require a remedy.

JEFFERSON TO HAMILTON.

April 10th, 1791.
Th. Jefferson has the honor to send to the Secretary of the Trea-
sury a note, just received from Mr. Otto, with copies of a corres-
pondence between certain bankers desirous of lending forty mil-
lions livres to the United States, the French minister, and Mr.
Short. He will ask the Secretary of the Treasury's consideration
of these papers, and that he will be so good as to return them to
him, with the substance of the answer he would wish to have given

* The other parts of this letter are not to be found.

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 149

to Mr. Otto. It is probable, indeed, we shall soon receive the
same correspondence from Mr. Short, with his observations on
the offer made.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, April 10th, 1791.

Sir:

I have the honor of your letter of the 4th instant, addressed
to the Secretary of State, the Secretary of War, and myself; to
which due obedience shall be paid on my part.

A letter from Mr. Short, dated at Amsterdam, the 2d of De
cember, has just come to hand, giving me an account of his pro-
ceedings to that period, a copy of which will be forwarded by
the Tuesday's post. He informs me, among other things, that
he had concluded with the bankers of the United States to open
a loan, in February, for two millions and a half of guilders, at
five per cent, interest, and four per cent, charges, which is a half
per cent, less than the last. The term of reimbursement, fifteen
years, beginning at the end of ten, with liberty to the United
States to reimburse at any time sooner.

You will recollect that, by particular instruction from you
to me, no succeeding loan is to be opened until that preceding
has been submitted to you, and received your approbation. As
it is very desirable that no delay may attend the progress of the
business, both as it regards payments to France and the domes-
tic operations to which the loans may be applied, I have con-
cluded to submit Mr. Short's letter, to-morrow, to the Vice-
President and the heads of departments, that they may con-
sider how far the case is within the purview of your letter, and
whether it will not be expedient to authorize Mr. Short to j)ro-
ceed upon a further loan to the amount of three millions of
guilders, which is the sum to which the money-lenders have
been accustomed, and that recommended by our bankers as the
most proper to constitute each loan.

150 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

I request, nevertheless, to receive your instruction as soon as
possible, upon the subject. And I submit whether it will not be
advisable to change the restriction above mentioned, so as to
leave Mr. Short at liberty to open his loans, successively, for
three millions of dollars each — no new one to commence till
after the preceding one has been filled — but without waiting for
a ratification from this country ; provided the terms be not, in
any case, less advantageous than those now announced. There
is always danger of considerable delay in waiting for approbation
from hence, before a new loan can be undertaken ; and favor-
able moments may be lost ; for there are periods more or less
favorable.

I think there is no probability, for some time to come, that
loans can be obtained on better terms. And I may add that,
as far as I can judge, Mr. Short has conducted himself in the
affair with judgment and discretion, and there will be safety in
allowing him the latitude proposed. I believe, also, it will be
advisable to apply the present loan in the same manner as
the former; that is to say, one half, or perhaps 1,500,000
guilders, to the use of France, and the residue to the purchase
of the debt here. On this point, also, I request your direction.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, April 11th, 1791.

Sir:

I have just received a letter from Mr. King, in these words :
" Mr. Elliott, who it has been said was appointed, will not come
to America, owing, say his friends here, to a disinclination on
his part, which has arisen from the death of his eldest or only
son. Mr. Seton yesterday read me an abstract of a letter from
London, dated February 2d, and written, as he observed, by a
man of information, which says : ' Mr. Frazer is appointed
plenipotentiary to the United States of America, and will go out

Mi. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 151

as soon as it is ascertained here that a correspondent character
is appointed in America.' Although Mr. Elliot might not have
been altogether adequate to the appointment, jet he would
not have been a bad choice. It is questionable whether we can
say even as much as that for Mr. Frazer, who is probably the
gentleman lately resident with the Hansetowns, and formerly
consul at Algiers, and who is said to be a wrong-headed, impetu-
ous man. Should this information be correct, the appointment
is not only unpromising, but is also a pretty strong proof of the
misguided opinions of the British administration concerning this
country." Nothing except the foregoing letter occurs worth
communication, more than is contained in my official dispatch
herewith.

With the truest and most respectful attachment, &c.

HAMILTON" TO JEFFERSON".

Treasury Department, April 12th, 1791.

Sm:

I have perused the papers communicated to you by the
Charge des Affaires of France.

The propositions to which they relate, as far as they are un-
derstood, appear to me inadmissible. The only advantage they
offer to the United States is a prolongation of the time of reim-
bursement. The rate of interest is to remain the same, and the
place of payment, according to the probable course of exchange,
is to be altered for the worse from Paris to Amsterdam. A pre-
mium of five per cent, is also required, while the charges on the
loans we make in Holland do not exceed four. There is, however,
a proposition which is not understood : it is that the exchange on
the sum to be paid at Paris and received at Amsterdam shall be
regulated according to the tariff announced in the law of Con-
gress. Now there is nothing in the laws of the United States
to which I can apply the term tariff. It is possible, however,

152 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

that Mr. Short's letters, when received, may throw light on this
point and some others, which may give a different complexion to
the business.

But there are various collateral considerations in relation to
the transfer of the debt due from the United States to France,
affecting the credit and financial operations of this country, which
will make it in almost any form a delicate operation.

It is desirable on every account to make expeditious payment
to France, but this desire must be conciliated with that of invigo-
rating and perfecting the system of public credit of the United
States, and in adhering to this idea there is the additional induce-
ment of a tolerable prospect of satisfying the claims of France in
a manner perhaps as expeditious and probably more effica-
cious than would be incident to an acquiescence in the proposed
plan.

I have the honor to be with great respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SHORT, AMSTERDAM.

Treasury Department, April 13th, 1791.

Sir:

I have recently received your letters of the 2d of December
and the 25th of January. The others to which they refer have
not yet come to hand.

The manner in which you have proceeded, as detailed in
your letter of the 2d of December, is entirely satisfactory to me,
and I doubt not will be equally so to the President, when known
to him. He is now absent on a journey through the Southern
States.

Id consequence of the arrangement which has been made by
the President relative to cases occurring in his absence, I am at
liberty to authorize you as soon as the loan you announce is filled,
to cause another to be opened for three millions of guilders, which
I accordingly do.

iET. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 153

One million and a half of the loan you have set on foot is
destined as a payment to France, and you will please to take as
early measures as possible to have the million remitted to Paris ;
the half million will wait for a farther direction. I observe that
the remittance of the million and a half of the last loan has been
effected with considerable advantage to the United States. I
presume that a similar advantage will for some time to come at-
tend succeeding remittances.

Though your letters, detailing the nature of the offers for a
transfer of the debt due to France, are not arrived, a communica-
tion through the Charge des Affaires of France to the Secretary
of State has given me the requisite information. There is, how-
ever, one proposition of Messieurs Schweizer, Jeanneret & Co.,
which I do not understand. It is the fourth, to this effect : " The
difference of exchange upon the forty millions to be furnished at
Paris, and upon the same sum to be received in contracts of the
United States, shall be regulated according to the tariff an-
nounced in the law of Congress." "What is meant by this tariff
I am wholly at a loss to determine ; there being nothing in the
law of Congress to which I can apply the term.

This being the case, the propositions with the sole advantage
of a prolonged period of reimbursement, would leave the debt
at the same rate of interest, and involve the disadvantage of
making it payable at Amsterdam instead of Paris, (subjecting the
United States thereby to the loss arising from a less favorable
course of exchange,) together with the further disadvantage of a
l^remium of five per cent, instead of four.

In this view of the matter the propositions are inadmissible.
Your letter, however, by explaining the one I have quoted, may
possibly throw new light on the subject. But I do not despair
that offers will be made better corresponding with the terms you
are at liberty to accept.

The domestic debt of the United States has reached the fol-
lowing prices in our market :

Six per cent, funded stock, bearing interest from the 1st
instant, 17s. per £, or 85 per cent., and much in demand.

Deferred six per cent, stock 95. per £, or 45 per cent.

154 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 34.

Three per cents, bearing interest from the 1st instant, 9s. per
£, or 45 per cent., much in demand and rising.
I have the honor to be, &c.

P. S. — I omitted to make you my acknowledgments for the
returns of exports from St. Petersburg, which I beg you now
to accept. Such documents will always be most acceptable, and,
whenever they can be obtained without trouble or expense, I
would request your transmitting to me copies of such as you
may be able to procure. I have at present to ask of you the
favor of obtaining for me the best information in your power
concerning the establishment of the mint in the United Nether-
lands ; the different offices, compensations to the persons engaged
in it, the standards, weights, values, &c. of the coins, and such
other particulars as are ever communicated, will all be desirable.

The situation of our East India trade renders it an object to
obtain an account of the state of that branch of commerce in
foreign countries. If you could with convenience furnish me
with any thing relative to that of the United Nether] ands, it may
be useful at the present moment. I am particularly drawn to
inquire about the affairs of the Dutch East India Company, by
the circumstance of their borrowing money, and at an high
interest.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, April 14. 1791.

Sir:

I have the honor to send herewith a copy of my letter of the
10th inst., and of that from Mr. Short of the 2d of December, to
which it refers ; and also the copy of another letter from Mr.
Short of the 25th of January.

The result of my submission to the Vice-President and the
heads of departments has been, that they have unanimously ad-

Mi. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 155

vised me to instruct Mr. Short to proceed to open a second loan
as soon as the first shall be filled, and to extend the sum from
two and a half to three millions of guilders. I nevertheless re-
quest your direction concerning the alteration in his instructions
generally, which is proposed in my letter.

Finding, on recurring to it, your instruction to me competent
to the disposition of the sum borrowed, I have directed Mr. Short
to apply one million and a half of the loan which was to com-
mence in February, as a payment to France. The exchange be-
tween France and Holland afforded a benefit of more than ten
per cent, to the United States on the last payment.

I thought it advisable to dispose of a principal part of the
loan to this object, not only from the general considerations
which operate in the case, but from a desire to counteract the
success of some negotiations with the French court for the pur-
chase of the debt due from us, which are not for the interests of
the United States.

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

Treasury Department, April 15, 1791.

Sir:

The letter you sent me from Mr. Short, and others which I
have received since mine to you, confirm the views of the subject
therein taken. This you will perceive, from the following pas-
sages extracted from one of them : " Since then (speaking of
former overtures), another company has presented itself for the
same object, with a scheme by which the United States are to
make the sacrifices on which they count for their profits." " The
object of this company is, as you will see, to pay livres tour-
nois in their present depreciated state, and to receive from the
United States florins at the usual exchange ; by this means
France would receive from them as much as she is entitled to receive
from us, but we should be obliged to pay the company much more
than we are obliged to pay France." " Had I had powers compe-

156 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

tent to the purpose, I should not have thought myself justified
to have opened such a negotiation, where there was all loss and
no prospect of advantage to the United States." * * * * "I must
also add, that the house which makes these propositions is entire-
ly unknown here, and that France feared even their names at
Paris, which proves that it must be an inconsiderable one."
Consequently, the credit of the United States would be in immi-
nent danger of suffering in their hands.

I have authorized Mr. Short to apply a million and a half of
florins of the loan he has opened to the use of France, and shall
press as large payments as may be practicable to her.

I take it for granted that the court of France will not attempt
any operation with the debt without the consent of the United
States. Any thing of this sort, considering the efforts which are
making on our part to discharge the debt, would certainly be
very exceptionable. Indeed I do not see how any valid disposi
tion of the debt of a sovereign power can be made without its
consent ; but it would be disagreeable to have to use this argu-
ment. I trust it will never be rendered necessary.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Charleston, May 7, 1791.

Sir:

I have received your letters of the 11th and 14th of last
month. Concluding, from Mr. Short's statement of his negotia-
tion in Amsterdam, and from the opinions offered in your letter
of the 11th, that the loan has been obtained on the best terms
practicable, and that its application in the manner you propose
will be the most advantageous to the United States, I do hereby
signify my approbation of what has been already done, as commu-
nicated in your letters of the 11th and 14th of April. Assenting
to the further progress of the loans, as recommended by you in

Mt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 157

these letters, I request that instructions may be given for com-
pleting them agreeably thereto.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SHORT.

Treasury Department. Philadelphia, May 9, 1791.

Sir:

Since mine to you of the 18th of April, I have received your
several letters of the 18th and 30th of December, the loth of
January, the 7th, 17th, and 22d of February.

Thanking you for the copious information they contain, I
assure you that the further development of the business has in-
creased my satisfaction with the course you have pursued. The
issue of the loan set on foot by you is too favorable to the credit
of this country not to be particularly pleasing.

I was apprehensive that inconvenience might attend the re-
striction by which you are required to defer opening a new loan,
till the preceding one has been communicated and approved.
And I doubt not that the President will readily consent to re-
move it, on perceiving that it has occasioned embarrassment.
He is expected to return to this place by the middle of June ;
though, as I have written to him on the subject, it is probable
that I shall, before his return, receive orders to give you greater
latitude.

My letter of the 18th of April will have enabled you to open
a second loan, either in Holland, or in the place to which Mr.
Morris alludes — if the supposed opportunity shall have been
found real, and shall not have passed by. It certainly would be
very desirable to be able to resort to more markets than one,
and if one of those markets should happen to be England, it
would not be the worse on that account. I think there is a train
of good consequences involved in the idea of opening the purses
of moneyed men in that country to the government of this. I
suspect, nevertheless, that it would not be long tolerated.

158 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

My objections to the negotiation yon announce for obtaining
a transfer of the debt due to France, have been confirmed by
your subsequent communications.

You are informed that a million and a half of the last loan
is destined for France, and authorized immediately to apply a
million. I am now to inform you that directions have been given
to the Treasurer to draw for eight hundred thousand. Leaving
funds for answering this sum, you are at liberty to complete the
payment of the whole sum destined for France as speedily as
you think fit.

When the President returns I shall take with him a definitive
arrangement, and give you a general view of the disposition in-
tended to be made.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SHORT.

Treasury Department, May 24th, 1791.

Sir:

The President of the United States has signified to me his
pleasure that I should revoke that part of your instructions
which confines you to opening loans for no greater sum, at a
time, than one million of dollars, and which restrains you from
opening a subsequent loan till the one preceding has received
his approbation ; and has also instructed me to authorize you to
open each future loan for three millions of florins ; and as soon
as one loan shall be filled or subscribed, to open another, till the
sum necessary for fulfilling the act entitled, "An act making
provision for the reduction of the public debt, and for paying
the arrears of interest, and instalments of principal, which shall
have become due to France, to the end of the present year," shall
have been completed ; provided, however, that the terms be not
less advantageous than those upon which the last loan has been
effected.

With regard to the application of the moneys that shall arise

jEt.34.] cabinet papers. 159

from the loans you may make, subsequent to that which has been
already announced, it is to be as follows : Reserving in the hands
of our bankers one million and a half of the next succeeding
loan, and a million of the one immediately succeeding that, for
completing the purpose of the Act above mentioned, the residue
of each, and the whole of the future loans, are to be applied in
payments to France, unless directions shall at any time be given
to the contrary. The first money which shall be paid in upon
the two loans, out of which reservations are to be made to the
extent contemplated, are, nevertheless, to be applied towards the
payments to France ; which you will accordingly cause to be
done.

You will doubtless continue to keep me punctually advised
of your operations.

With very great consideration, and the most cordial esteem,
fa.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, June 13th, 1791.

My dear Sir :

I am arrived at this place, and just in time to acknowledge
(in a hasty manner, by this day's post, the first opportunity that
has offered of writing to Philadelphia since I left Savannah) the
receipt of your private letter of the 17th of April, by Mr. Smith,
who lodged it at Camden, through which it was known my route
would be, on my return to the seat of government.

Mr. Woolcott may be informed that it is my intention to ap-
point him to the office of Comptroller. With respect to his suc-
cessor as Auditor, I shall suspend my determination, if no
manifest inconvenience will result from it, until my arrival in
Philadelphia, which, however, is not likely to happen before the
5th or 6th of July, as, by appointment at the last meeting, I am
to meet the commissioners under the residence act, on Monday,
the 27th instant, at Georgetown, and may, for aught I know to

160 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

the contrary, be detained there several days ; and I afterwards
must move slowly, on account of the exhausted condition of my
horses.

No letters from the northward or eastward of this, bearing
date between the 15th and 30th of May, have come to my hands ;
and having abundant evidence, before I reached Charleston, of
the slow movements of the mail through the three southernmost
States, I did, before I left that place on the 9th of that month,
direct that all letters which might be for and following me
should be returned to Fredericksburg, as the first place at
which I should touch the post-line upon my return. But these
directions not arriving in Eichmond in time, as I conjecture, the
letters of that interval, agreeably to the superscriptions which I
am informed were on them, were forwarded from that place to
Taylor's Ferry, in expectation of meeting me there. To this
circumstance, which was unknown to me, and to finding, from
better information than I set out with, that it would be more
convenient to cross James Kiver higher up than at Taylor's, is
to be ascribed my missing the communications which were made
between the loth and 30th of May, as mentioned before. These
dispatches I may be long without, and perhaps never get ; for
there are no cross-posts in those parts, and the letters, which will
have to pass through many hands, may find some who are not
deficient in curiosity.

My return to this place is sooner than I expected, owing to
the uninterrupted!] ess of my journey by sickness, from bad
weather, or accidents of any kind whatsoever. Having obtained,
before I left Philadelphia, the most accurate accounts I could
get there of the places and roads through and by which I was to
perform my tour, and the distances between the former, I formed
my line of march accordingly, fixing each day's journey and the
day to halt ; from neither of which have I departed in a single
instance, except staying, from a particular circumstance, two days
in Columbia, and none at Charlotte, instead of one at each, and
crossing James Kiver at Carter's Ferry in place of Taylor's, as
was the original intention. But the improbability of performing
a tour of seventeen hundred miles (I have already rode more)

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 161

with the same set of horses, without encountering any accident
by which a deviation would be rendered unavoidable, appeared
so great, that I allowed eight days for casualties, and six to re-
fresh at this place when I should have returned to it. None of
the former having happened, accounts for the fourteen days I
shall remain here before the meeting with the commissioners ;
one of whom, Mr. Johnson, Chief Justice of the State of Mary-
land, and living at a considerable distance from Georgetown,
having made his arrangements agreeably thereto; would not be
able to meet me sooner.

I mention this matter, that, if there is any thing pressing in
either of the departments, it may be known where I am.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, June 19, 1791.

Sir:

I have been duly honored with your letter of the 13th inst.,
from Mount Yernon; and, according to your desire, have in-
formed Mr. Wolcott of your intention to appoint him Comptrol-
ler. This appointment gives me particular pleasure, as I am
confident it will be a great and real improvement in the state of
the treasury department. There can no material inconvenience
attend the postponing a decision concerning the future Auditor
till your arrival in this city.

I am very happy to learn that the circumstances of your
journey have been in all respects so favorable. It has certainly
been a particularly fortunate one, and I doubt not it will have
been of real utility.

There is nothing which can be said to be new here worth
communicating, except generally that all my accounts from
Europe, both private and official, concur in proving that the
impressions now entertained of our government and its affairs
(I may say) throughout that quarter of the globe are of a nature
the most flattering and pleasing.

D 11

162 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

Treasury Department, June 21, 1791.

Sir:

It has occurred to me that it would be productive of very
useful information, if some officer of the United States, in each
foreign country where there is one, were instructed to transmit
occasionally a state of the coins of the country, specifying their
respective standards, weights, and values; and, periodically, a
state of the market prices of gold and silver in coin and bullion,
and of the rates of foreign exchange ; and of the rates of the dif-
ferent kinds of labor, as well that employed in manufactures and
in tillage.

I would beg leave to request, if there appears to you no
inconvenience in the thing, that an instruction may be sent for
the above purpose, and that copies of the statements which shall
from time to time be received in consequence of it may be fur-
nished to the treasury.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SHORT.

Treasury Department, June 25th, 1791.

Sir:

I received two days since your letter of the 11th of March
last.

Mine to you of the 13th of April and of the 9th and 24th of
May (of which copies are herewith sent), will have informed you
of my opinion Concerning the negotiation for the transfer of the
debt due to France, will have removed the impediments to your
progress in the business committed to you, and will have apprised
you of my views generally.

You will readily imagine that it must have been in a great
degree necessary to let the development of our prospects at home
precede a definitive arrangement with regard to the disposition

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 163

of foreign resources ; and yon will, from this, account for your
not having been earlier apprised of what was to be done.

It is not impossible that the return of the President to this
place, which is expected to be on the 4th or 5th of next month,
will give you still greater latitude than has yet been given.

I observe with some surprise the application which has been
made by Mr. Grand. Surely the naming of a place in any con-
tract for the payment of moneys, can have reference only to the
contracting parties, and may at pleasure be changed by their
joint consent.

Your suggestion as to the expediency of diffusing in Holland
a knowledge of the affairs of the United States, is evidently well
founded.

It would, however, be of some delicacy to select such things
as might make a favorable impression from those which might
have a contrary tendency, which cannot be well judged of but by
a person on or near the spot. And unless there were an Ameri-
can character stationary in the scene itself, there would be little
certainty of a disinterested or judicious selection.

With great consideration and esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SHORT.

Treasury Department, June 30th, 1791.

Sir:

Since closing my letter herewith transmitted, yours of the
4th of March transmitting a copy of the contract for the last
loan has been delivered to me.

A ratification of that contract by the President will be for-
warded as speedily as possible after his return to the seat of gov-
ernment, which is expected to be in the first week of the next
month.

There is in a late letter from Messrs. Willinks and Van Stap-
horst something like a hope expressed of a possibility ere long

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

to obtain money for the United States at a lower rate of interest
than heretofore, if a competent discretion be allowed to watch
and improve favorable moments. There is no disinclination here
to your allowing those gentlemen such a discretion as you may
judge requisite to the accomplishment of so valuable an end,
within the limits of your own.

Lest any misapprehension should arise from the mode of ex-
pression in my letter of the 24th of May, you will please to
understand that you are at liberty to set on foot a new loan,
upon the amount of the first being taken up or contracted for. I
observe that the word subscribed is used in different letters from
Holland as synonymous with the "payment of the money contracted
for, or, as we should say here, subscribed.

With very great consideration and esteem, &c.

SHORT TO HAMILTON.

Paris, July 19, 1791.

■* * * * * jn answer to my letters with respect to a loan at 4|
per cent, interest and also a diminution of the charges in case of
the interest being continued at 5 per cent., they continue to say
that the reduced interest can be hoped for only from delaying the
loan and augmenting the commission. And as to the loan on
the same interest they persist in assuring that no diminution of
the charges can take place ; they say that the bonds will inevitably
fall to par on such a loan being proposed, the rise to 101 having
taken place only from its having been believed that no other
5 per cent, loans would be proposed, and that the bonds may
be now had at 100^ in parcels; they add that it would be highly
impolitic to risk the good will of the undertakers by reducing J
per cent, on their commission as I proposed. I own I am not of
the same opinion, and am persuaded, that if they pleased, they
might carry through a loan at 3 J per cent, commission. I have
not informed them of my intention to open soon a loan either

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 165

there or elsewhere, but only have given them to understand,
which they know, however, full as well as I do, that Congress
will soon have occasion for further loans: and so the matter
stands with respect to them.

Mr. Morris is in correspondence with his friends at Antwerp,
respecting a loan as mentioned to you in a former letter. He
showed me a letter from them in which they say that they think
a small sum might be raised at 4J per cent, by allowing sufficient
time, but that the commission must be 6 per cent. I have autho-
rized Mr. Morris to propose to them a commission of 4 per cent.,
and to say that in that case I would contract with them. He is
now waiting for their answer, though I have little hopes they
will take so low a commission. As it would be highly advanta-
geous, however, to make such a loan even as they offer, I may,
perhaps, be tempted to accept it if nothing better can be done.

The bankers at Amsterdam have written to me, that they
have no doubt that a loan opened there the middle of next
month might be pushed to six millions of florins, at 5 per cent.
The same interest would unquestionably procure loans also at
Antwerp, and perhaps at Genoa. These resources being used,
the French debt, as far as due, might be immediately paid,
and large sums remitted to you for purchasing up the American
funds, which, bearing an higher interest and selling considerably
below par, present great advantages for the public credit. The
benefit of such measures depending on a general combination of
your plans, no steps of course can be taken towards it but by
your orders. The view, however, in which this subject has long
presented itself to me, makes me regret that such advantages
should be lost or delaj^ed. It is useless to mention to you the
effect which our domestic funds being at par would have on the
credit abroad.

I have never known the reason why the Senate threw out
the bill for paying off the foreign officers ; it would certainly
have had an happy influence on our credit, and particularly here.
Its not being done would thwart much any design of borrowing
money in Paris to pay off the French debt, or at least would ren-
der the terms less advantageous.

166 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

I have thus made you acquainted, sir, with the present po-
sition of affairs, and shall take care to inform you of every step
that is taken respecting them.

Various circumstances have prevented the directors of the
mint here giving me as yet the information they promised. As
soon as obtained it shall be forwarded to you.

HAMILTON TO SUPERVISORS OF BOSTON.

Treasury Department, July 27, 1791.

Gentlemen :

A temporary absence from the seat of government has de-
layed an answer to your letter of the 14th inst.

It is an established rule at the treasury, not to disclose the
amount of the stock which stands to the credit of any person on
the public books to any but the proprietor himself, or his regular
representative ; and the reasons extend, of course, to the respec-
tive loan offices.

One of those reasons is, that as property in the public funds
constitutes an usual and a considerable portion of mercantile
capital, wherever public credit is well supported, the permitting
an inspection into the stock account of individuals to others than
the parties respectively interested, would have a tendency to lay
open the affairs and operations of merchants more than is con-
sistent with the spirit of trade. Indeed, not only merchants, but
other classes of citizens, may often have very fair and valid rea-
sons for being disinclined to such an inspection ; and it may be
even conceived, that it would not at all times be expedient to
allow access to the secret emissaries of a foreign power to dis-
cover the quantum of interest which its own citizens might have
in the funds of a nation.

In thus assigning some of the reasons which have given occa-
sion to the rule that has been mentioned, I yield to a desire of
satisfying the Board that it is not unsupported by considerations

Mt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 167

of weight, and that a relaxation of it, in compliance with their
request, could not with propriety be acceded to on my part.

At the same time, I feel myself called upon by the occasion
to express an opinion, that every thing in the nature of a direct ]
tax on property in the funds of the United States, is contrary to
the true principles of public credit, and tends to disparage the
value of the public stock. If any law of the State of Massachu-
setts, therefore, gives sanction to such a tax, it is presumed that
it must have been passed without an advertence to this important
idea ; and it is not doubted that, in the execution of it, there will
be all the care and moderation which the delicacy of the opera-
tion requires. It is desirable, on every account, that no occasion
should be given to a discussion concerning the regularity of the
proceeding.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, July 29, 1791.

The Secretary of the Treasury, having had the honor to lay
before the President of the United States the correspondence of
Mr. Short respecting the loans made, and to be made, pursuant
to the several Acts of Congress for that purpose, begs leave to
note particularly for his consideration two circumstances which
appear in that correspondence.

First, that there are moments when larsre sums mav be bor-
rowed in Holland with more facility and advantage than small
sums at other times.

Secondly, that there is some prospect of opening loans with
success in other countries than the United Netherlands.

These circumstances appearing, the Secretary respectfully
requests the consideration and instruction of the President of the
United States, whether it may not be expedient to remove the
present restrictions upon Mr. Short, so as to enable him to em-
brace favorable moments, and open at his discretion loans, at such
times and places, and for such sums, as he may find advisable,
within the limitations of the respective laws authorizing the loans.

168 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

United STATes, July 29, 1791.

Upon a full consideration of the reasons offered by Mr. Short,
in his correspondence with you, for removing the restrictions
laid upon him by his present instructions, so far as relates to his
not opening a loan for more than a certain sum, and not being
allowed to open a new loan until the terms of the preceding one
shall have been ratified here, I have thought it expedient, and
for the interest of the United States, that these restrictions should
be removed. And I do hereby authorize you to inform Mr.
Short, that he may open at his discretion loans for the United
States, at such times and places and for such sums as he may
find advisable, within the limitations of the respective laws au-
thorizing these loans.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SHORT.

Treasury Department, August 1st, 1791,

Sir:

Since my last letter to you, yours of the 4th of May has
come to hand.

Pursuant to instructions recently received from the President
of the United States, I am at liberty to authorize you " to open,
at your discretion, loans, at such times and places, and for such
sums as you may find advisable, within the limitations of the
respective laws authorizing the loans," and which have been
transmitted to you. This, accordingly, I now do, subject only
to the following qualification : That with regard to such parts
of the principal of our foreign debt as will not fall due till after the
year 1792, no loan is to be opened which will cost the United
States, in interest and charges, more than four and a half per
cent, on the sum actually received by them.

jEt. 34.] cabinet papers. 169

This restriction is founded on an expectation of being able,
ere that period arrives, to borrow money within that limit.

You will now find yourself in condition to embrace any fa-
vorable opportunities which may present, in either of the coun-
tries which have been mentioned by you, or in any other what-
soever. I hinted to you, on a former occasion, that the market
of London would not be an undesirable one ; and I have some
reason of late to suppose that it might not be found an impracti-
cable one.

I observe what you say, in your letter of the 9th of April,
concerning the probable terms on which loans might be procured
at Genoa. I should question, exceedingly, the expediency of
opening a loan there, or any where else, on terms less advan-
tageous than they can be made in Holland. Nevertheless, it is
not my intention to conclude you by this observation, if you
judge that the future effect of the measure upon our loans in
Holland may justify a temporary sacrifice. As to Genoa, par-
ticularly, it does not appear advisable to go far, unless on terms
more advantageous than in Holland ; because, for want of direct
intercourse, remittances to pay the interest must be circuitous,
and probably both inconvenient and comparatively disadvan-
tageous.

In respect to France, the case is very different. Equal terms
there would appear eligible, if not preferable. But there is
room to expect, from the progress of things in that scene, even
better terms. To guard the lenders against the consequences of
depreciation, the stipulations to pay in specie may be as precise
as possible. There can be no objection to making the bonds,
which should be given for the sums lent, receivable in payment
for lands, at the price or prices which shall be fixed by law, in
other cases.

I send you, herewith, an official statement by the proper
officer, certified under the seal of the treasury, of the product of
the old duties for a period of one year, ending the 30th of Sep-
tember last. This, I presume, will be deemed sufficiently au-
thentic. The productiveness of the new duties is, as yet, only
partially ascertained; but there is every appearance that they

170 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

will fully answer expectation. The product at the port of Phila-
delphia, for a single quarter, including the months of April*,
May, and June, exceeds three hundred and thirty thousand dol-
lars ; which, if you compare with the product of an entire year
of the former duties, as exhibited in the statement above men-
tioned, will give you an idea of the very considerable increase
which has taken place. All this, too, is independent of an in-
terior duty on ardent spirits, which, in its progress, must afford
an important accession of revenue.

You intimate the propriety of a plurality of persons to exe-
cute a trust such as that now reposed in you. This, however,
does not appear necessary ; and it is confided that you will
cheerfully execute it alone. Of your prudence and judgment
all are satisfied.

With great consideration and esteem, &c.

Postscript, Aug. 2, 1791. — "When I speak of equal terms in
France, it ought to be understood in tliis sense : Provided they
are such as to realize the existing benefit of exchange between
Holland and France.

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

August 26th; 1791.
Mr. Hamilton presents his respects to the Secretary of State,
and transmits drafts of the powers to the commissioners and to
Mr. Short, to possess the Secretary of State fully of the nature of
the powers and course of the transactions in both cases.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, September 2d. 1791.

Sir:

Since my last to you, of the first of August, I have received
your several letters of the 3d, 5th, 10th, and 19th of June.

JEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 171

Most of the points mentioned in those letters will find suf-
ficient answers in my several communications of the 9th and
24th of May, June 25th and 30th, and the 1st of August ; all of
which having gone, by duplicates at least, and some by tripli-
cates, I take it for granted have gotten or will get safe to
hand.

Previous to saying any thing further, by way of answer, it is
proper to inform you of a circumstance which has recently taken
place here. Mr. Tern ant, shortly after his arrival, made a repre-
sentation against the payment of the moneys due to France in
its depreciated paper or assignats. You will readily conclude
that the answer to such a representation could only be, that (it)
teas not the intention of the United States to take advantage of the
circumstance of depreciation, and that an equitable allowance
would be made for that circumstance, in the final adjustment of
the payments which shall have been made.

It therefore becomes important to distinguish mere deprecia-
tion from rate of exchange. To illustrate my meaning : I observe
that you state in your letter of the 3d of June, the exchange be-
tween Amsterdam and Paris is upwards of twenty per cent, (say
20) in favor of the former. You also state the rate of the de-
preciation of assignats at Paris, or, in other words, the difference
between equal sums in specie and assignats, at 10 per cent. Here,
then, the rate of exchange, exclusive of depreciation, was 10 per
cent, above par in favor of Amsterdam.

Two modes of adj listing this matter occur : one, to note at
each period of payment the rate of exchange and the rate of de-
preciation, and to pay the money, if desired, in Holland, at a
rate of exchange corresponding with the difference ; the other,
to sell bills on Amsterdam for specie, and pay the proceeds into
the French treasury.

As it may hereafter be questioned whether the rate of depre-
ciation can be distinguished from the rate of exchange, it will be
well to endeavor to put this point out of doubt : if circumstances
permit the sale of bills at Paris, in specie, at a rate of exchange
which is nearly a mean between the nominal or declared rate of
exchange and the actual rate of depreciation (which on the data

1T2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 34.

noticed above ought to be 10 per cent.), this would afford an in-
contestable criterion. For Paris being the stipulated place of
payment, there could be no colorable claim upon us to make
payments at Amsterdam, when we could make them in gold or
silver at Paris at 10 or any other rate per cent, (which might
correspond with the above mentioned mean) less.

The management of this point will require delicacy. It is
probable that the French ministry will not choose to mark for-
mally a rate of depreciation. And it is not wished to create any
embarrassment on the point. It is hoped that you will be able
so to conduct the thing as to conciliate a due regard to equity
with the interest of the United States, and the scruples which
the conjuncture may impose on the French ministry.

If the sale of bills for specie will afford the equitable line of
demarcation, it would seem the simplest operation for the French
administration to purchase your bills on our bankers at Amster-
dam at the market specie rate of exchange ; in case, as I under-
stand to be the fact, they wish to remit to Holland.

I observe the expectation of our bankers of a reduction of
the rate of interest on the loans of this country, and your reasons
for doubting that their expectations will be realized. Those
reasons have great weight. Yet the accounts from this quarter
of the progressive rise of our stock, and the rapid filling of the
national bank, must ere this have given a strong impulse to what-
ever causes might exist favorable to a reduction of interest. And
without expecting sanguinely, I do not despair of the event hav-
ing happened, or speedily happening.

An increased premium, though not desirable, ought not, as
you intimate, to be an obstacle, if within limits that on calcula-
tion show that more is gained in the reduction of interest than
lost in the increase of premium. And it is probable enough that
an augmentation of benefit to the undertakers may induce them
to exert efficaciously their influence with the money lenders to
be content with a rate of interest which will considerably over-
balance to the United States the additional compensation given
to them. The observations in my first instructions, which have
relation to this point, had an eye chiefly to the sacrifices which

JIt.34] CABINET PAPERS. 173

in the loan of two millions of florins at 4 per cent, were made to
a mere appearance of low interest ; and which, if I remember
right, in fact gave to the lenders about 7 per cent. A small ad-
ditional premium, which would be an object to agents or under-
takers, would be easily overbalanced by a slight diminution of
the rate of interest.

The course marked out in my letter of the 24th of May will
obviate in future any injurious delay in the employment of the
sums borrowed, if, as I have no doubt will be the case, I am ac-
curately advised of the time of commencing each loan and the
prospects concerning it, in order that I may regulate the drafts for
the parts which are intended to be applied here.

The probability of an extension of loans abroad for the pur-
chase of public debt beyond the limit of two millions of dollars,
depends on that of a fall of interest. When I inform you that
I expect in future to be able to borrow in the United States at
5 per cent., you will perceive that it cannot long be their interest
to borrow at 5 in Europe.

As you have now a latitude of discretion coextensive with
the whole amount of our foreign debt, and indications of my
opinions on various points, I forbear to multiply details which
perhaps would only serve to perplex. I shall therefore content
myself with barely adding, that in regard to places of payment
for moneys borrowed, my speculations on the probable course of
exchange, resulting from future relations of commerce, would
lead me to prefer, on equal terms, first, Paris, and next, Amster-
dam. Neither any of the Italian States, nor the Austrian Neth-
erlands, nor London, appears to me equally eligible. But too
much stress ought not to be laid on such a preference, the grounds
of it being far from certain.

The affair of Shiveizer, Jeanneret & Co. is more and more out
of the question. Mr. Ternant discountenances instead of pro-
moting it. And the President has sanctioned the disapprobation
of the measure.

The postscript to my letter of the 2d of August is to be con-
strued with a reference to what is said in this letter concerning
the adjustment of the payments to France.

174 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

I thank yon for the different documents yon have forwarded
me ; and assnre jou. of the increasing consideration and esteem
with which I have the honor to be, &c.

A ratification of the contract for the loan by the President
has been sent to Messrs. Willinks & Yan Staphorsts by a direct
opportunity, which has been deemed safer than a circuitous one
through you.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, Sept. 16, 1791.

Sir :

I have the honor to inclose the copy of a letter from Mr.
Brown, of Kentucky, to Gen. Irvine, giving an account of some
interesting particulars in the western country. Part of the let-
ter, I have understood, has been forwarded to you, but not the
whole. Gen. Irvine is of opinion that the waters will.be still so
far practicable as to permit the progress of the troops under Gen.
Bntler, by the expedient of dragging the boats in the shallowest
places.

With perfect respect, &c.

TERNANT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Sept. 21, 1791.

Sir:

The distressed and very alarming situation in which the
French colony of Hispaniola is now reduced, by an insurrection
of the negroes, which threatens the most fatal consequences, puts
me under the necessity of causing large supplies of provisions to

Mr. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 175

be immediately forwarded to that island. The means I can com-
mand at present being insufficient for the purpose, I have to re-
quest you will enable me, if possible, to draw on your federal
treasury, to an amount not exceeding forty thousand dollars, to
be accounted for in any future reimbursement of the United
States to France.

I hope the extreme urgency of the case, and the interest I
am convinced you take in the welfare of my nation, will induce
you to grant this request, which I am going to lay immediately
before the President of the United States.
I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, Sep. 22, 1791.

Sir:

I have received a letter from the Minister of France, of which
the inclosed is a copy. Having full authority from you in rela-
tion to payments to France, and there being funds out of which
that which will constitute the succor requested may with pro-
priety be made ; and being fully persuaded that in so urgent
and calamitous a case, you will be pleased with a ready acquies-
cence in what is desired, I have not hesitated to answer the
Minister that the sum he asks is at his command.

With the most perfect respect and truest attachment, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, Sept. 24, 1791.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the 22d instant, inclosing a
copy of one from the French Minister. I have to inform you

176 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

that your proceedings with, respect to the request of the Minister
of France, meet my entire approbation.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SHORT.

Treasury Department, October 3, 1791.

Sir:

I acknowledge the receipt of your letters of the 26th and
27th of July.

The fall which you announce in the price of the effects of the
United States was certainly artificial. The cause ere this will
have been better ascertained to you. 'Tis open to various con-
jecture.

I have thought it advisable to drop a line to our bankers in
Holland, (of which a copy is inclosed,) merely to mark my atten-
tion to the circumstance.

It will deserve to be further considered whether it be expe-
dient to press any more the reduction of charges. Perhaps the
principal effort ought hereafter to be towards a reduction of the
rate of interest. But you, who best know the ground, can best
judge.

I shall be anxious to know the issue of your experiment at
Antwerp.

I have the honor to remain with great consideration and
respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO MESSRS. WILLINKS, VAN STAPHORSTS AND HUBBARD,

AMSTERDAM.

Treasury Department, October 3, 1791.

Gentlemen :

I have learnt with some surprise, through Mr. Short, that the
price of the effects of the United States had undergone a sudden
depression in the market of Amsterdam.

jEt.34.] cabinet papers. 177

This is so different from the tenor of the hopes I had built
upon those expressed by you, and so contrary to all the calcula-
tions I can form on the natural course of the thing, that I cannot
but be curious for a particular development of its cause.

It will, therefore, be satisfactory to me to receive from you,
as early as may be, a full explanation of the circumstances which
shall appear to you to have occasioned so unexpected a turn of
the thing.

With great consideration, I remain, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, Oct. 6, 1791.

Sir:

The packet has brought me a letter of the 2d of August from
Mr. Church, which contains the following paragraph :

" I fear there is no disposition at present in our Ministers to
treat properly with America. Lord Hawkesbury is lately admit-
ted into the Cabinet, and his prejudices are strong against you,
and the enthusiasm for maintaining the navigation act is such,
that there is not a shadow of probability they will in any shape
relax. I have heard nothing since my last of Mr. Hammond's
appointment to America, but I believe he is certainly to be sent
out."

"With the most respectful attachment, &c.

SHORT TO HAMILTON.

Paris, Oct. 10, 1791.

Sir:

* * * * # Since the departure of Mr. Donald from London,

his partner has continued the correspondence with me on the
d 12

178 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

subject of a loan there for the United States. The final result of
his researches is less favorable, for the present moment, than Mr.
Donald had given reason to hope. On more precise inquiry, he
found that no house of solidity would undertake to guarantee a
loan for any commission, and that no loan could be opened pub-
licly for a foreign power. Still he was well convinced that the
United States might privately obtain a loan in London, provided
interest was at five per cent., and that it was not brought on until
the next spring. As I did not understand precisely what was meant
by the term privately, and of course could not judge whether the
dignity of the United States would admit of their making use of
that mode, I have written to ask an explanation of it as an indis-
pensable preliminary, and have not yet received an answer. * * *
With respect to Antwerp, I have hitherto informed you how
the business stood there. Since my last, I have, at Mr. Morris's
request, authorized the opening a loan there, provided it can
be effected at four and a-half per cent, interest and five per cent,
commission. As he observed it would be necessary in that case
for the United States not to open loans in Holland at an higher
rate of interest, I have agreed that that shall not be done before
the first of January next, provided three millions of florins can
be procured at Antwerp at that rate, and at that time. I had no
difficulty in taking this engagement, as it is consenting only to
what the interest of the United States would dictate. No answer
has as yet been received to this letter, written only a few days
ago. I must own, however, that I am not very sanguine in the
expectation of any thing being done there in consequence of it.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, Oct. 14, 1791.

Dear Sir :

When I addressed a private letter to you a few days ago,
I had no more idea that Monday, the 24th instant, was the

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 179

day appointed for the meeting of Congress, than I had of its be-
ing doomsday ; until it was mentioned to me in a letter which I
have just received from Mr. Lear, who was under the like mis"
take. It had got so fixed in my mind that the last Monday was
the time, that I never consulted the law, or made inquiries
about it ; and meant to move leisurely on, in the course of next
week, for Philadelphia ; and for that purpose had directed Page
to send off his stage-coach so as to be at Georgetown on Tuesday,
the 18th. This discovery, however, will oblige me, as soon as
the means are in my power, to accelerate my journey ; and it
induces me, at the same time, to urge you more earnestly to be
prepared, against my arrival, with what my last requested.

How far, in addition to the several matters mentioned in that
letter, would there be propriety, do you think, in suggesting the
policy of encouraging the growth of cotton and hemp, in such
parts of the United States as are adapted to the culture of them ?
The advantages, which would result to this country from the
encouragement of these articles for home manufacture, I have
no doubt of; but how far bounties on them come within the
powers of the general government, or it might Comport with the
temper of the times to expend money for such purposes, is neces-
sary to be considered. Without a bounty, I know of no means
by which they can be effectually encouraged. The establishment
of arsenals in convenient and proper places is, in my opinion, a
measure of high national importance, meriting the serious atten-
tion of Congress ; and is one of those measures which ought to
be brought to their view.

Yesterday I received the resignation of John Spotswood
Moore, surveyor of the port of West Point, in this State. I
mention it now, that, if opportunities should be afforded, you
may make the necessary inquiries into the fitness of a successor
to him.

180 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 34.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Georgetown, Oct. 17, 1791.

My Dear Sir :

I am thus far on my way to Philadelphia, and if the disagree-
ableness of the weather (for it is now raining) does not prevent
it, shall proceed to Bladensburg at least to-night ; but, be my
dispatch what it probably may, the mail which leaves this to-
morrow will arrive in Philadelphia before me.

This being the case, and time pressing, I forward the inclosed
suggestions of Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison, who are both at
this place, and from whom I requested information of the several
matters that had occurred to them proper for communication.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, November 1st, 1791.

Sir:

I have barely time, by this opportunity, to inform you, that
I have directed the treasurer to draw for one million of florins,
on account of the last loan of six millions, and towards the close
of the present month shall direct him to draw for another mil-
lion. I calculate that the whole amount of the loan will have
been received before the second set of drafts are presented.

I remain, with great consideration and regard, &c.

SHORT TO HAMILTON.

Paris, November 22d, 1791.

Sir:

* ***** * Since my last, I have received your two let-
ters of September 2d and October 3d. As it is the intention of

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 181

the United States to make up the depreciation, I am glad to
have been informed of it thus early. I communicated it to the
commissaries of the treasury, who intended, as they told me,
making objections to such payments in future. This astonished
me the more, as it would be objecting to receive from a debtor
what they pay, to a considerably greater amount, annually, to
their creditors. It is well to have anticipated their reclamations,
since the intention of the United States is such. I am persuaded
the ministry would have been too prudent to have rendered
public such reclamations, and should suppose it highly probable
Ternant had acted of himself. The commissaries of the treasury
were highly pleased with my communication. I desired they
would fix some basis which should be equally just for both
parties. It was agreed between us, that it would be to ascertain
what would have been the rate of exchange between Paris and
Amsterdam if gold and silver had continued to circulate in
France. They said they would consider of this subject, but
nothing has been as yet proposed. * * * * *

It gave me much pleasure to find, by your last letter, that
you had noticed to the bankers at Amsterdam the momentary
fall in our stock there. The reduction in the rate of interest
will, of course, as it has hitherto been, be in future the object of
our efforts, agreeably to your desire ; and I am exceedingly
happy to have been able to offer you such favorable hopes re-
specting it, being ever desirous to convince you of my zeal, and
give you assurances of the sentiments with which I have the
honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department. November 30th, 1791.

Sir:

Your letters of the 23d and 31st of August and 3d of Sep-
tember remain unacknowledged. Mine to you, of the 1st of
August, 2d September, and 3d of October, will much abridge
what is necessary to be said at this time.

182 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.34,

The prices of the public debt here rendering it questionable
whether it be any longer the interest of the United States to
prosecute the idea of purchases with moneys borrowed at 5 per
cent., and there being reasons of the moment against beginning
the redemption of the six per cents., I have concluded to forbear
drawing for the second million of guilders mentioned in my let-
ter of the 1st instant. Except, therefore, one million of the last
six which has been drawn for, the entire loan is to be applied to
European purposes.

In directing this application, you will bear in mind that there
will be payments to be made on account of the Dutch loans, for
which the proper reservations are to be made.

In your letter of the 23d of August, you mention that " in
June next, the first reimbursement is to take place on the loans
made at Amsterdam," and the commissioners, in some of their
letters, speak of the time of that reimbursement as approaching.

Hence I conclude that some mistake has arisen, as by the
contracts in the treasury it appears that the first payment of
principle of the first Dutch loan, namely, that of 5,000,000 of
florins, contracted the 17th of June, 1782, is not to take place
till the 1st of June, 1793.

It will be proper to have an explanation with the commis-
sioners on this point, lest an error should have crept into the
copies of the contract sent to the treasury; which, however,,
from the whole circumstance, appears scarcely possible.

All payments for interest or otherwise, which shall be neces-
sary to be made upon the Dutch loans during the year 1792, are
intended to be made out of the moneys borrowed abroad, which
will leave in the treasury here the sums that ought to be remit-
ted for interest, as a part of the two millions of dollars authorized
to be borrowed by the act making provision for the reduction of
the public debt.

After the year 1792, remittances for interest will go from
hence. But it is probable that, for some time to come, we shall
have to depend on loans abroad for the reimbursement of the in-
stalments of principal which may be falling due.

I observe the idea that a guarantee would be necessary, m

jEt. 34.] CABINET PAPERS. 183

the case of a loan made in England. This circumstance I was not
apprised of. It appears to me inadmissible.

I also observe what has passed concerning the charges on the
last loan. You will perceive from my letters above referred
to, the light in which this subject of charges has presented itself
to my view.

With the truest consideration and esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO THOMAS MIFFLIN, GOVERNOR OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Treasury Department, Dec. 21, 1791.

Sir:

It appearing to me that the attention of the Legislature of
Pennsylvania may be necessary to the removal of an inconveni-
ence under which the subscribers of the debt of that State now
lie, I do myself the honor to make the requisite communication
to your excellency.

The 18th section of the Act making provision for the debt
of the United States, suspends the payment of interest in respect
to the debt of any State which shall have issued its own certifi-
cates in exchange for those of the United States, until it shall be
satisfactorily made to appear that the certificates issued for that
purpose by such State had been re-exchanged or redeemed, or until
those which shall not have been exchanged or redeemed shall be
surrendered to the United States.

It is understood that the measure contemplated in this section
was adopted by the State of Pennsylvania ; that is, that a sum
of State certificates was issued in exchange for an equal sum of
certificates of the federal debt, and that although a part of those
State certificates has been redeemed, others to a considerable
amount have not been re-exchanged or redeemed. It will con-
duce as well to the order of the finances as to the convenience
of the public creditors, the payment of interest to whom must
otherwise be suspended, if measures can be taken by the govern-

184 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

meiit of Pennsylvania to make the balance unredeemed and un-
exchanged to appear, and if they should direct the surrender of
the amount of such balance in certificates of federal debt in their
old form. Should the surrender of them in that form be imprac-
ticable, from the circumstance of the subscription of federal
debt, which was directed by the Legislature, an equal sum of six
per cent, deferred, and three per cent, stock, in such proportion
as the balance or deficiency would produce on subscription, may
be paid in lieu of the certificates, in their old form. This will
be at the election of the State, and can be effected by no circum-
stance but their own convenience, as there can be no pecuniary
advantage or disadvantage in either mode.

HEADS OF TOPICS FOR WASHINGTON'S SPEECH OF DEC. 25, 1791.

By Hamilton.

I. Cross posts ; especially to some of the important points in
western part of the Union.

II. Recommendation to enable Executive to preserve peace
with Indians, by making it their interest.

III. Something complimentary to the militia.

IV. Completion of subscriptions to Bank.

1. Consuls.

2. Estimate of lands.

3. Forty thousand applications.

4. Act of S. and 1ST. Car. Prisons.

5. Ditto, State of New Hampshire. Light-house.

6. Schools.

7. Tour south. Observations.

8. Communication from Governor of Pennsylvania.

9. Amendments.

10. Insurrection in Hispaniola.

11. Appointments to vacancies.
Surplus of revenue to debts.

,Et.35.] cabinet papers. 185

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

January 1, 1792.

Mr. Hamilton presents his compliments to Mr. Jefferson. Be-
ing engaged in making a comparative statement of the trade be-
tween the United States and France, and between the United
States and Great Britain, and being desirous of rendering it as
candid as possible, Mr. H. will be obliged to Mr. Jefferson to
point out to him the instances in which the regulations of France
have made discriminations in favor of the United States as com-
pared with other foreign powers. Those of Great Britain appear
by its statutes, which are in the hands of Mr. EL, but he is not
possessed of the general commercial regulations of France.

Mr. H. also wishes to be informed whether the arret of the
9th of May, 1789, mentioned by Mr. J. in the notes to this table,
be the same with the ordinance of the Governor-General of St.
Domingo, which is at the end of the collection of arrets which
Mr. J. was so obliging as to lend to Mr. EL, which is of that date*

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, Jan. 28. 1792.

Sir:

You will find herewith duplicate of my letter of the 30th of
November last ; since which I am without any of your favors.

It is with sincere pleasure I embrace the opportunity of con-
gratulating you on your appointment to the Hague as minister
resident. This will afford you a better opportunity of watching
and appreciating the course of circumstances. You will conse-
quently be obliged less to rely on others ; and I trust, by seizing
favorable moments, you will be able to reduce the rate of interest
on such future loans as may be found necessary.

A bill has lately been drawn upon our commissioners, in

186 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

favor of Mr. Jefferson, for 95,947| guilders, for the use of the
foreign department.

I send you herewith copies of a Eeport of mine to the House
of Eepresentatives on the 23d instant, and of certain statements
which accompanied the same, which will give you a view of the
present state of revenue and expenditure.

Our frontier affairs, by occasioning an increase of the latter,
will call for an increase of the former.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, Feb. 14, 1792.

Sir:

I have received your several favors of Sept. 23d, Oct. 10th,
and Dec. 1st.

It appears to me probable that your movement towards Ant-
werp produced the appearance of a four per cent, loan, and I
hope from it in the result good effects.

Inclosed you will find a copy of a letter, of the same date
with this, to the commissioners in Holland. You will easily
comprehend the motives which directed the turn of it.

As to the charges on the six millions loan, though you had a
right to insist on the point which you made with the commis-
sioners, and did right to insist upon it till there was a concession
of the principle, yet it appears, upon the whole, to be more inter-
esting to the United States to keep the commissioners in good
humor, in order to a cheerful co-operation in the more important
point of a reduction of interest, than to make so small a saving
in charges. I have obtained the consent of the President of the
United States to authorize you to allow on the whole of the loan
of six millions the same charges as attended the preceding loan.

JEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 187

HAMILTON TO W. & J. WILLINK AND VAN STAPHORST & HUBBARD.

Treasury Department, Feb. 14, 1792.

Gentlemen :

I am just honored with your several favors of Nov. 21st and
24th, and Dec. 2d.

I learn with regret the disappointment which has attended
jour endeavor to procure a loan for the United States at the
reduced rate of four per cent, interest. Your success would
doubtless have been as interesting to the credit of this country,
as it would have been pleasing both to the President of the
United States and myself.

But, as I rely on the mutual good disposition both of Mr,
Short and yourselves, I shall confide that any circumstances
which may have taken place, not exactly corresponding with
your views of the public interest, will not interfere with a cordial
co-operation in the prosecution of it hereafter ; and as events will
continue to second your efforts, I shall allow myself to hope that
the expectation of reducing the rate of interest on American
loans to four per cent, will ere long be realized, notwithstanding
the momentary impediment which has happened.

The price of public funds here will satisfy you that it is ceas-
ing to be the interest of the United States to borrow abroad at a
higher rate of interest than four per cent.

If you are able to bring the matter to that standard, it will
effectually obviate the possibility of any future recourse else-
where, and will secure to all parties the important advantage of
permanently concentrating the loans of the United States in one
great money market, upon terms which will conciliate in a satis-
factory degree all interests, public and private.

188 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, March 1, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor to submit to the
President of the United States the draft of a Report on the sub-
ject of the Act concerning distilled spirits. There are one or two
blanks in the draft, to the filling of which some additional exam-
ination and inquiry are requisite. The suggestions, however, to
which they relate are true as they stand, and the sense will be
apparent. The Secretary sends the draft before they are filled
to save time. He will wait upon the President on Monday for
his commands respecting it.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, March 5th, 1792.

Sir:

Since my last of the 14th ultimo, I have the pleasure of your
two letters of the 8th and 12th of November.

The reimbursement of the Spanish debt will be perfectly
acceptable, but there will be matter for regret, if, before this
reaches you, the sum claimed by the Farmers General has been
paid to them.

There is certainly a million of livres in the pecuniary trans-
actions between the United States and France, acknowledged as
a subsidy, which remains unaccounted for, with some ground of
conjecture that it is the same million which constitutes the claim
of the Farmers General. This affair, though it has heretofore
been moved, has never received any satisfactory solution. It is,
however, proper in every view that such a solution should be
had, and the documents are preparing on which to found a regu-
lar application, concerning it, to the French government. In the
mean time the payment to the Farmers General, if not made,
ought to be forborne.

^Gt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 189

I observe that you would have shortly reached the point when,
by your instructions, you would cease to be at liberty to continue
the reimbursements to France upon loans made at four and a
half per cent, exclusive of charges. I shall be glad to find that
the accomplishment of a loan at four per cent, has prevented that
instruction proving an obstacle to further payments.

But if this should not have been the case, and if the rate of
exchange shall have been so fixed with France as that it may
prove an equivalent for the charges and the additional half per
cent., you may proceed in borrowing, on the terms of the
Antwerp loan, to an extent sufficient to discharge the entire debt
to France.

The condition which is here made is deemed necessary to
justify the executive in regard to the construction of the law and
public opinion. And when it is considered that immense loss
was sustained in realizing here the sums borrowed abroad during
the war, in many instances to the extent of 40 per cent., it can
not appear extraordinary that some attention is paid to condi-
tions of advantageous reimbursement, especially of the part
which is not yet due.

It must be proper to unite liberality towards France with an
equitable regard to the interest of the United States.

JEFFERSON TO HAMILTON.

March 5th, 1792.

Thomas Jefferson will be glad if the Secretary of the Treasury
will state the specific propositions he would have made to Spain,
on the subject of our fish, grain, and flour, to wit, what he would
ask, and what propose as an equivalent. The following consi-
derations will of course occur to him :

1. If we quit the ground of the most favored nation, as to cer-
tain articles for our convenience, Spain may insist on doing the
same for other articles for her convenience, and I apprehend that

190 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

our commissioners might soon be out of their depth in the details
of commerce.

2. If we grant favor to the wines, &c. of Spain, Portugal and
France will demand the same, and may create the equivalent, the
former by laying duties on our fish and grain, the latter by a
prohibition of oar whale oils ; the removal of which will be
proposed as the equivalent.

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

March, 1792.

The general tenor of the Report appears solid and proper.

The following observations, however, on a hasty perusal

occur.

Page 2. Is it to put our Revolution upon the true or the

best footing, to say that the circumstances which obliged us to

discontinue our foreign magistrate, brought upon us the war f Did

not the war previously exist and bring on the discontinuance f

Was it not rather the cause than the effect ?*

Is it accurate to say that France aided us in capturing the
yjhole army of the enemy ? Does this not imply that there was
no other enemy-army in the country ; though there were in fact
two others, one in New- York, another in South Carolina ? This
last is a mere criticism as to the accuracy of expression. The
sense is clear enough. f

Page 11. Are " naval victories" the essential mean of con-
quest of a water, as seems to be implied ? Is not the conquest
of a water an incident to that of territory ? % If this idea is not

* These notes are in the hand of Jefferson. " The Report is amended in conformity
with this observation.

t "The capture of the army struck out.

X " No conquest of the territory was made, to wit, of the island of New-Orleans
on the one side, or Louisiana on the other, as both had belonged to Spain before
the war. Therefore no change in the right to the water as incident to the territory.
This circumstance, however, is inserted in the Report to make the reasoning
the clearer."

Mr. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 191

sound, that combined with it is, — namely, that in no event could
Spain be considered as having conquered the river against the
United States, with whom she not only had no war, but was an
associate.

Page 12. May it not be inferred from what is said here, that
though the United States would not wish to insert an express
stipulation against other nations, yet they may be prevailed up-
on to do it ? Would such a stipulation be consistent with the
right which Great Britain reserved to herself in the treaty with
us ? If the influence alluded to is intended to be excluded, will it
not be advisable to vary the turn of expression so as to render the
intention more unequivocal ?*

Page 23. Are there conclusive reasons to make it a sine qua
non that no phrase shall be admitted which shall express or
imply a grant ? Could the negotiation with propriety be broken
ofT on such a point ?

Is it not rather one to be endeavored to be avoided, than the
avoiding of it to be made a sine qua non ?f

Page 25. Is it true that the United States have no right to
alienate an inch of the territory in question, except in the case
of necessity, intimated in another place ? Or will it be useful to
avow the denial of such a right ? It is apprehended that the
doctrine which restricts the alienation of territory to cases of ex-
treme necessity, is applicable rather to peopled territory, than to
waste and uninhabited districts. Positions restraining the right of
the United States to accommodate to exigencies which may arise,
ought ever to be advanced with great caution.;):

* The word choose substituted for wish, however England could hold that right
of command in the water only as incident to Florida, which she then held. When
she conveyed Florida to Spain, the incident passed by the same consequence, and
she can never have a claim against us on a stipulation, the benefit of which she
has conveyed to another.

t Report altered in conformity to this.

£ The power to alienate the unpeopled territory of any State, is not among the
enumerated powers given by the Constitution to the General Government, and if
we may go out of that instrument, and accommodate to exigencies which may arise,
by alienating the unpeopled territory of a State, we may accommodate ourselves
a little more by alienating that which is peopled, and still a little more by selling
the people themselves. A shade or two more in the degree of exigency is all that

192 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

Page 28. Is it true that the stipulation with France respect-
ing the reception of prizes is exclusive and incommunicable ? It
is doubtless so as against France, but why is it so as against
other nations ?

It is however a stipulation very inconvenient and even dan-
gerous to the United States, and one which ought by all means
to be excluded.*

Though a treaty of commerce like that contemplated in the
report ought not to be rejected, if desired by Spain, and coupled
with a satisfactory adjustment of the boundary and navigation; yet
ought not something more to be attempted, if it were only to give
satisfaction to other parts of the Union? Some positively favor-
able stipulations respecting our grain, flour, and fish, even in the
European dominions of Spain, would be of great consequence,
and would justify reciprocal advantages to some of her commo-
dities (say wines and brandies.)f

Will it not be necessary to add an instruction that the usual
stipulation respecting the ratification of the treaty by the United
States, be varied, so as to be adapted to the participation of the
Senate ? \

Last page. The words "nor in assenting to their rights" —
have a pencil line drawn through them. — 'Tis certainly best to
obliterate them.

The less commitment the better. §

will be requisite, and of that degree we shall ourselves be the judges. However,
may it not be hoped that these questions are for ever laid to rest by the 12th
amendment, now made a part of the Constitution, declaring expressly that the
powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution are reserved to the
States respectively 1 And if the General Government has no power to alienate the
territory of a State, it is too irresistible an argument to deny ourselves the use of
it on the present occasion.

* It is certainly impossible for any nation to have stipulations of this kind and
extent with two others at the same time. However, the language of the Report is
made more correct and conformable to the words of the French treaty.

t If the Secretary of the Treasury will be so good as to particularize the advan-
tages to be asked and the equivalents to be offered, it will be proper to consider of
them.

X It seems sufficient to stipulate that the treaty shall be ratified without saying
by what body or by what individuals it is to be. An instruction, however, is in-
serted to allow sixteen months for the exchange of ratifications.

$ This has been decided before.

jEt.35.] cabinet papers. 193

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

March 8th, 1792.
The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor to submit to
the President a letter which he has drafted, in answer to one
from the Minister Plenipotentiary of France, and which contains
such ideas as have appeared to him compatible with the law,
with the state of the treasury, and with a liberal attention to
the conjuncture. He will wait on the President this evening for
his orders, as Mr. Ternant appears urgent.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

March 16th, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor to submit to the
President the draft of a report on the subject of ways and means
for carrying into execution the military bill.

He will wait on the President to-morrow morning, for his
orders, as it is interesting there should be no unavoidable delay.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, March 21st, 1792.

Sir:

As the discharge of the arrears of interest, and instalments of
principal, of the French debt, which arc due, may have oc-
casioned your power to borrow for that object to be suspended
until you can obtain a loan at a rate of interest and charges
sufficiently reduced, it is my wish that, as soon as it shall be
proper after the receipt of this letter, you would proceed to
d 13

194 HAMILTON'S WORKS [jEt. 35.

borrow the sum of three millions of florins, on the terms of the
Antwerp loan, to be applied to the purposes mentioned in the
act of the 12th of August, 1790, for the reduction of the public
debt.

I shall wish for the earliest advices upon this subject, to
enable me to direct the drafts ; and I request your particular
attention so to manage the operation, that no loss of interest,
which can be avoided, may take place.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, April 2d, 1792.

Sir:

I am to acknowledge the receipt of your several letters of the
22d of November, 23d, 28th, and 30th of December.

The accomplishment, thus early, of a loan at four per cent,
exceeds expectations. The intelligence of it was received with
great satisfaction by the President, as well as by myself, and has
given no small pleasure to the public at large.

You will perceive, by my letter of the 14th of February, the
impression I entertained of the effect of your operation at Ant-
werp. The event is a confirmation of the good policy of
opeDing to the United States more than one market.

I observe what you say with regard to the relative state of
exchange and depreciation in France. I shall be glad to be in-
formed that a rule for liquidating the payments by the United
States has been adopted. It will be better to have it settled now,
than to leave it to future discussion. Embarrassments may here-
after arise in fixing a rule, which may be as advantageous to the
United States as a very moderate regard to their interest would
render desirable. The moment of commencing payments, by
anticipation, of sums not already due, has been, or will be, a
very favorable one for a right adjustment of this point.

You desire my ideas concerning the comparative expediency

jEt.35.] cabinet papers. 195

of making loans at Amsterdam or Antwerp on equal terms of
interest and charges, in the event of a tax being laid by the
States-General, as has been expected. This you will be better
able to determine than myself, when I explain to you the ground
of the preference before signified by me. It was founded on a
supposition that the course of trade and money transactions will
render remittances from this country to Amsterdam more easy
and less disadvantageous than to Antwerp. Now, the general
course of exchange between Amsterdam and Antwerp will de-
cide whether it be more advantageous to pay the tax, than to
remit through Amsterdam to Antwerp, which I presume, gene-
rally speaking, must be the case. If exchange be against Ant-
werp, in a degree sufficient to counterbalance the tax, the prefer-
ence will be due to Amsterdam ; if otherwise, to Antwerp.

The explanations you desire respecting the state of the debt
due to France, shall be forwarded by the next opportunity, as
shall be the contracts for the two last loans ratified by the Presi-
dent. An unusual press of business in the executive depart-
ments occasions, unavoidably, this delay.

It is impossible for me to agree to an alteration of the terms
of the six million loan in the particular suggested. It would be
a renunciation of an advantage really important in itself, and
still more so in the public opinion of this country.

The readiness which appeared, in the first instance, to accede
to the right of redeeming at pleasure, was more agreeable than
expected. The change of views on this point is a natural result
of the circumstances which have been experienced.

The terms of the last loan supersede the necessity of the lati-
tude contemplated in mine of the 21st of March.

The Treasurer will draw upon our Commissioners in Holland
for five hundred thousand florins, so as to arrive and be payable
in June. I fear, under the instructions that have been given, to
risk drafts for a greater sum ; though I consider it as for the
interest of the United States to prosecute the purchases of the
public debt with moneys borrowed upon the terms of the last
loan, and mean, as fast as I perceive it can be done with safety,
to draw for a further sum of two millions and a half of florins to

196 HAMILTON'S WORKri. [Mt. 35.

complete the three millions intended by my last-mentioned letter.
Your future letters will determine me whether to extend my

drafts upon the loans already made, or to wait for a reservation

by you out of some future loan.

P. S. — If the terms of the last loan can be rendered station-
ary, it will be of the happiest consequence. Perhaps* it will con-
duce to this to let it be understood that the loans will be confined
to Amsterdam, and probably extended for domestic operations,
if things can be kept in the same position. Something like this
has been hinted by me.

KNOX TO WASHINGTON.

War Department, April 3, 1792.

Sir:

Agreeably to your directions, as delivered to me this day by
the Attorney-General, I have endeavored to take into consider-
ation the expediency of your giving your approbation to the act
entitled "An act for an apportionment of representatives among
the several States according to the first enumeration," the consti-
tutionality thereof being doubted by some persons.

I might plead my inability to give an opinion on so impor-
tant and doubtful a point, as not possessing that previous infor-
mation more peculiarly resulting from a study of the law, and
from not having seen the merits of the question discussed in any
of the debates of the House. It is, therefore, with the highest
diffidence I venture on the subject.

The point upon which the question turns is, whether the
numbers of representatives shall be apportioned on the aggregate
number of all the people of the United States, or on the aggre-
gate number of the people of each State, notwithstanding several
large fractions may exist in each State unrepresented.

It has been said that either construction may be deemed to
be within the letter as well as the spirit of the Constitution. If

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 197

this opinion should be just, which I freely confess I am not
qualified of myself at this time to decide, it would result that the
assent of the President of the United States is to be governed by
the political equity of the measure.

In this view of the case, I find my mind less embarrassed
with doubt; for, although some smaller fractions may be unrep-
resented, yet most of the larger ones are comprehended. In the
bill, eight States, each having a fraction of upwards of twenty-
five thousand, are provided with a representative; whereas, in
the other seven States, no one of which would have more than
twelve thousand eight hundred and sixty-six, and only one State
that number, and the whole seven States but little more than
fifty thousand federal numbers unrepresented, provided all idea
of virtual representation should be rejected according to the prin-
ciple of the bill itself. But, on the contrary, were the fractions
of the eight States possessing the largest fractions not considered,
upwards of two hundred thousand federal numbers would be
unrepresented.

As, then, the Senate and House of Eepresentatives have
passed this law (by small majorities, indeed), and as the consti-
tutionality is only doubted, not proved, but the equity of the
measure apparent, it would appear rather a delicate measure for
the President to decide the question contrary to the bill as
passed.

If precedents are to be drawn from the conduct of the King
of Great Britain in similar cases of doubtful laws, it would ren-
der the propriety of the President's disapprobation still more
questionable.

JEFFERSON TO WASHINGTON.

April 4, 1702.

The Constitution has declared that " representatives and di-
rect taxes shall be apportioned among the several States accord-
ing to their respective numbers ;" that " the number of represent.
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 35.

atives shall not exceed one for every thirty thousand, bnt each
State shall have, at least, one representative; and, until such
enumeration shall be made, the State of New Hampshire shall be
entitled to choose three, Massachusetts," &c.

The bill for apportioning representatives among the several
States, without explaining any principle at all which may show
its conformity with the Constitution, or guide future apportion-
ments, says, that New Hampshire shall have three members,
Massachusetts sixteen, &c. We are, therefore, to find by experi-
ment what has been the principle of the bill ; to do which, it is
proper to state the federal or representable numbers of each
State, and the members allotted to them by the bill. They are
as follows : —

Vermont, . . .

85,532
It happens that this representation.

New Hampshire, .

141.823
whether tried as between great

Massachusetts,

475,327
and small States, or as between

Rhode Island, .

68,444
north and south, yields, in the

Connecticut,

235,941
present instance, a tolerably just

New-York, .

352,915
result, and consequently could

New-Jersey,

179,556
not be objected to on that ground,

Pennsylvania,

432.880
if it were obtained by the pro-

Delaware, .

55.538
cess prescribed in the Constitu-

Maryland, .

278,513
tion ; but, if obtained by any

Virginia,

630.558
process out of that, it becomes

Kentucky, .

68,705
inadmissible.

North Carolina,

353,521
South Carolina,

206,236
Georgia, ....

70,843
3,636,312
The first member of the clause of the Constitution above
cited is express — that representatives shall be apportioned among
the several States according to their respective numbers ; that is to
say, they shall be apportioned by some common ratio, for propor-
tion and ratio are equivalent words ; and it is the definition of
proportion among numbers, that they have a ratio common to allt
or, in other words, a common divisor. Now, trial will show that
there is no common ratio, or divisor, which, applied to the num-
bers of each State, will give to them the number of representa-

Mt. 35.]

CABINET PAPERS
tives allotted in this bill ; for, trying the several ratios of 29, 30,
31, 32, 33, the allotments would be as follows :

Vermont, . .
New Hampshire,
Massachusetts,
Rhode Island,
Connecticut,
New-York, .
New Jersey,
Pennsylvania.
Delaware,
Maryland,
Virginia, . .
Kentucky, .
North Carolina,
South Carolina,
Georgia, . .

The
30
32
33
bill.
2
2

Then the bill reverses the
4
4
5

constitutional precept ;
15
14
16

because, by it, "repre-
2
2
2

sentatives are not appor-
7
7
8

tioned among the seve-
11
11
11

ral States according to
5
5
6

their respective num-
14
13
14

bers."
1
1
2
9
8
9
21
19
21
2
2
2
11
11
12
6
6
7
2
2
2
112
107
120

It will be said that, though for taxes there may always be
found a divisor, which will apportion them among the States ac-
cording to numbers exactly, without leaving any remainder ; yet,
for representatives, there can be no such common ratio, or divisor,
which, applied to the several numbers, will divide them exactly,
without a remainder or fraction. I answer, then, that taxes must
be divided exactly, and representatives as nearly as the nearest
ratio will admit, and the fractions must be neglected; because
the Constitution wills, absolutely, that there be an apportionment,
or common ratio ; and if any fractions result from the operation,
it has left them unprovided for. In fact, it could not but foresee
that such fractions would result, and it meant to submit to them.
It knew they would be in favor of one part of the Union at one
time, and of another part of it at another, so as, in the end, to
balance occasional inequalities. But, instead of such a single
common ratio, or uniform divisor, as prescribed by the Consti-
tution, the bill has applied two ratios, at least, to the different
States, to wit, that of 30,026 to the seven following: Ehode
Island, New- York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, Kentucky,
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 35.

and Georgia; and that of 27,770 to the eight others; namely,
Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New
Jersey, Delaware, North Carolina, and South Carolina. As
follows :

>

And
>

Rhode Island, . .

68,444

"5
Vermont, . . .

85,532

'3d
New-York, . . .

352,915

cc
New Hampshire,

141,823

o*
Pennsylvania, . .

432,880

©

M

Massachusetts,

475,327
Maryland, ....

278,513

cc
Connecticut, . . .

235,941
Virginia, ....

630.558

>
New Jersey, . .

179,556

>»
Kentucky, ....

68,705

— ;
Delaware, . . .

55.538
Georgia, ....

70,843

<L
North Carolina,

353.521
t>

South Carolina, . .

206,236

">
Q

Q

And if two ratios may be applied, then fifteen may, and the
distribution become arbitrary, instead of being apportioned to
numbers.

Another member of the clause of the Constitution which has
been cited says, "the number of representatives shall not exceed
one for every 30,000, but each State shall have, at least, one
representative." This last phrase proves that it had in contem-
plation that all fractions, or numbers below the common ratio, were
to be unrepresented ; and it provides specially, that, in the case
of a State whose whole number shall be below the common
ratio, one representative shall be given to it. This is the single
instance where it allows representation to any smaller number
than the common ratio, and, by providing specially for it in this,
shows it was understood that, without special provision, the
smaller number would, in this case, be involved in the general
principle.

The first phrase of the above citation, that " the number of
representatives shall not exceed one for every 30,000," is violated
by this bill, which has given to eight States a number exceeding
one for every 30,000, to wit, one for every 27,770.

In answer to this, it is said, that this phrase may mean either
the thirty thousands in each State, or the thirty thousands in the
whole Union ; and that, in the latter case, it serves only to find
the amount of the whole representation, which, in the present

iEx.35.] CABINET PAPERS. 201

state of population, is one hundred and twenty members. Sup-
pose the phrase might bear both meanings, which will common
sense apply to it? Which did the universal understanding of
our country apply to it ? Which did the Senate and Kepresenta-
tives apply to it during the pendency of the first bill, and even
till an advanced stage of this second bill, when an ingenious gen-
tleman found out the doctrine of fractions — a doctrine so difficult
and inobvious, as to be rejected, at first sight, by the very per-
sons who afterwards became its most zealous advocates. The
phrase stands in the midst of a number of others, every one of
which relates to States in their separate capacity. Will not plain
common sense, then, understand it, like the rest of its context, to
relate to States in their separate capacities ?

But if the phrase of one for 30,000, is only meant to give the
aggregate of representatives, and not at all to influence their ap-
portionment among the States, then the one hundred and twenty
being once found, in order to apportion them, we must recur to
the former rule, which does it according to the numbers of the
respective States ; and we must take the nearest common divisor as
the ratio of distribution, that is to say, that divisor which, ap-
plied to every State, gives to them such numbers as, added
together, come nearest to 120. This nearest common ratio will
be found to be 28,858, and will distribute 119 of the 120 mem-
bers, leaving only a single residuary one. It will be found, too,
to place 96,648 fractional numbers in the eight northernmost
States, and 105,582 in the seven southernmost. The following
table shows it.
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 35.

Ratio of

Fractions.

85,532

28,858.

Vermont, ....
27,816

New Hampshire, .

141,823
26,391

Massachusetts,

475,327
13.599

Rhode Island,

68,444
10.728

Connecticut, ....

235.941
5,077

New-York, ....

352,915
6,619

New Jersey, ....

179,556
6,408

Pennsylvania,

432,880
10

96,648

Delaware, ....

55.598
26,680

Maryland, ....

278,513
18,791

Virginia,

630,558
24,540

Kentucky, ....

68,705
10,989

North Carolina,

353,521
7,225

South Carolina, .

206,236
4.230

Georgia,

70,843
13,127

105,582

3,636,312
202,230

202,230

Whatever may have been the intention, the effect of rejecting
the nearest divisor, (which leaves but one residuary member,)
and adopting a distant one, (which leaves eight,) is merely to
take a member from New- York and Pennsylvania each, and give
them to Vermont and New Hampshire. But it will be said,
"this is giving more than one for 30,000." True; but has it
not been just said, that the one for 30,000 is prescribed only to
fix the aggregate number, and that we are not to mind it when
we come to apportion them among the States ; that for this we
must recur to the former rule, which distributes them according
to the numbers in each State ? Besides, does not the bill itself
apportion among seven of the States, by the ratio of 27,770,
which is much more than one for 30,000?

Where a phrase is susceptible of two meanings, we ought
certainly to adopt that which will bring upon us the fewest in-
conveniences. Let us weigh those resulting from both con-
structions.

From that giving to each State a member for every 30,000
in that State, results the single inconvenience that there may be

^t. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 203

large fractions unrepresented. But it being a mere hazard
on which States this will fall, hazard will equalize it in the
long run.

From the other results exactly the same inconvenience. A
thousand cases may be imagined to prove it. Take one : sup-
pose eight of the States had 45,000 inhabitants each, and the
other seven 44,999 each, that is to say, each one less than each
of the others, the aggregate would be 674.993, and the number
of representatives, at one for 30,000 of the aggregate, would be
22, Then, after giving one member to each State, distribute the
seven residuary members among the seven highest fractions;
and, though the difference of population be only an unit, the rep-
resentation would be the double. Here a single inhabitant the
more, would count as 30,000. Nor is this case imaginable only ;
it will resemble the real one, whenever the fractions happen to
be pretty equal through the whole States. The numbers of our
census happen, by accident, to give the fractions all very small
or very great, so as to produce the strongest case of inequality
that could possibly have occurred, and which may never occur
again. The probability is, that the fractions will generally
descend gradually from 39,999 to 1. The inconvenience, then,
of large unrepresented fractions attends both constructions ; and?
while the most obvious construction is liable to no other, that of
the bill incurs many and grievous ones.
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 35.

1st,

2d,

3d,

4th,

5th,

6th,

7th,

8th,

9th,

10th,

11th,

12th,

13th,

14th,

15th,
Fractions.

•

45,000

.15.000

45.000
15.000

45,000
15,000

45,000
15,000

45,000
15,000

45,000
15,000

45.000
15.000

45.000
15,000

44,999
14.999

44,999
14.999

44.999
14,999

44.999
14,999

44,999
14.999

44,999
14,999

44,999
14,999

674,993

1. If you permit the large fraction in one State to choose a
representative for one of the small fractions in another State,
you take from the latter its election, which constitutes real repre-
sentation, and substitute a virtual representation of the disfran-
chised fractions ; and the tendency of the doctrine of virtual
representation has been too well discussed and appreciated by
reasoning and resistance, on a former great occasion, to need de-
velopment now.

2. The bill does not say that it has given the residuary rep-
resentatives to the greatest fractions ; though, in fact, it has done
so. It seems to have avoided establishing that into a rule, lest
it might not suit on another occasion. Perhaps it may be found
the next time more convenient to distribute them among the
smaller States; at another time among the larger States; at other
times according to any other crotchet which ingenuity may in-
vent, and the combination of the day give strength to carry ; or
they may do it arbitrarily, by open bargain and cabal. In short,
this construction introduces into Congress a scramble, or a ven-
due for the surplus members. It generates waste of time, hot-
blood, and may, at some time, when the passions are high, ex-

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 205

tend a disagreement between the two Houses, to the perpetual
loss of the thing, as happens now in Pennsylvania Assembly :
whereas the other construction reduces the apportionment always
to an arithmetical operation, about which no two men can pos-
sibly differ.

3. It leaves in full force the violation of the precept which
declares that representatives shall be apportioned among the
States according to their numbers, i. e. by some common ratio.

Viewing this bill either as a violation of the Constitution, or as
giving an inconvenient exposition to its words, is it a case wherein
the President ought to interpose his negative ? I think it is.

1. The non-user of his negative begins already to excite a
belief that no President will ever venture to use it ; and, conse-
quently, has begotten a desire to raise up barriers in the State
legislatures against Congress throwing off the control of the
Constitution.

2. It can never be used more pleasingly to the public than
in the protection of the Constitution.

3. No invasions of the Constitution are so fundamentally
dangerous as the tricks played on their own numbers, apportion-
ment, and other circumstances respecting themselves, and affect-
ing their legal qualifications to legislate for the Union.

4. The majorities by which this bill has been carried (to wit,
of one in the Senate, and two in the House of Eepresentatives),
show how divided the opinions were there.

5. The whole of both Houses admit the Constitution will bear
the other exposition ; whereas the minorities in both deny it will
bear that of the bill.

6. The application of any one ratio is intelligible to the
people, and will, therefore, be approved ; whereas the complex
operations of this bill will never be comprehended by them;
and, though they may acquiesce, they cannot approve what they
do not understand.

206 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, April 4, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President of the United States. He was hi formed yesterday, by
the Attorney-General, that his opinion concerning the constitu-
tionality of the Eepresentation Bill was desired this morning.
He now sends it with his reasons, but more imperfectly stated
than he could have wished, through want of time. He has never
seen the bill, but from the accounts he has had of it, he takes it
for granted that he cannot have misconceived its contents, so as
to cause any material error in the process of his reasoning.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, April 4, 1792.

The President desires an opinion, whether the act entitled
" An act for an apportionment of representatives among the sev-
eral States according to the first enumeration," be constitutional,
or not.

It is to be inferred, from the provisions of the act, that the
following process has been pursued :

1. The aggregate numbers of the United States are divided
by 30,000, which gives the total number of representatives, or 120.

2. This number is apportioned among the several States by
the following rule : As the aggregate numbers of the United States
are to the total number of representatives found as above, so are
the particular numbers of each State to the number of representa-
tives of such State. But,

3. As this second process leaves a residue of eight out of the
120 members unapportioned, these are distributed among those
States which, upon that second process, have the largest fractions
or remainders.

;Et. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 207

As a ratio of 30,000 appears to have been adopted as a guide,
the question is, whether this ratio ought to have been applied, in
the first instance, to the aggregate numbers of the United StateSj
or to the particular numbers of each State ?

I am of opinion that either of these courses might have been
constitutionally pursued ; or, in other words, that there is no
criterion by which it can be pronounced decisively that the one
or the other is the true construction. Cases so situated often
arise on constitutions and laws.

The part of the Constitution in question is thus expressed :
" Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among the
several States according to their respective numbers."

'Tis plain that the same rule is to be pursued with regard to
direct taxes as with regard to representatives.

What is the process which would naturally be followed in
relation to the apportionment of direct taxes ?

Clearly this — the total sum necessary would be first ascertained.

This total sum would then be apportioned among the several
States by the following rule, viz.

As the aggregate numbers of the United States are to the
whole sum required, so are the particular numbers of a particular
State to the proportion of such State ; which is, so far, the exact
process that has been followed by the bill in the apportionment
of representatives.

And hence results a strong argument for its constitutionality.

If there had been no ratio mentioned in the Constitution, 'tis
evident that no other course could have been well pursued. No
doubt, at least, of the propriety of that which has been pursued,
could have been then entertained.

Does the mention of a ratio necessarily alter it ?

The words of the Constitution, in respect to the ratio, are
these : — " The number of representatives shall not exceed one
for every 30,000, but each State shall have at least one represen-
tative."

This provision may naturally be read and understood thus :
" The whole number of the representatives of the United States
shall not exceed one to every 30,000 of the aggregate numbers

208 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

of the United States ; but, if it should happen that the proportion
of the numbers of any State to the aggregate numbers of the
United States should not give to such State one representative,
such State shall, nevertheless, have one. No State shall be with-
out a representative."

There is nothing in the form of expression to confine the ap-
plication of the ratio to the several numbers of the States. The
mode of expression equally permits its application to their joint
or aggregate numbers. The intent of inserting it is merely to de-
termine a proportional limit, which the number of the House of
Eepresentatives shall not exceed. This is as well satisfied by
resorting to the collective, as to the separate population of the
respective States.

There is, therefore, nothing in the last recited clause to con-
trol or direct the sense of the first.

If it be said that the further process which apportions the re-
sidue among the States having the greatest remainders, is the
circumstance that renders the bill unconstitutional, because it
renders the representation not strictly according to the respective
numbers of the States, it may be answered that this is but a ne-
cessary consequence of the first principle.

As there would commonly be left, by the first process, an un-
apportioned residue of the total number to be apportioned, it is
of necessity that that residue should be distributed among the
several States by some rule, and none more equal or defensible
can be found than that of giving a preference to the greatest re-
mainders.

If this makes the apportionment not mathematically "accord-
ing to the respective numbers of the several States," so neither
would the opposite principle of construction.

Fractions, more or less great, would, in this case also, and in
a greater degree, prevent a conformity of the proportion of repre-
sentatives to numbers. The same objection would lie, in this
respect, against both principles of construction, against that in
the bill at least.

Upon the whole, then, the bill apportions the representatives
among the several States, according to their respective numbers ;

jEt.35.] CABINET PAPERS. 209

so that the number of representatives does not exceed one for every
30,000 persons, each State having at least one member. It there-
fore performs every requisition of the Constitution ; and it will
not be denied that it performs this in the manner most consistent
with equality.

There appears, therefore, no room to say that the bill is un-
constitutional, though there may be another construction of
which the Constitution is capable. In cases where two construc-
tions may reasonably be adopted, and neither can be pronounced
inconsistent with the public good, it seems proper that the legis-
lative sense should prevail. The present appears to the Secretary
clearly to be such a case.

RANDOLPH TO WASHINGTON.

April 4, 1792.

The Attorney-General of the United States has the honor of
reporting to the President of the United States, on the represen-
tation bill, as follows : —

The points which involve the question of constitutionality are
three :

1. To ascertain the process by which the bill fixes the total
number of representatives at 120 ;

2. To ascertain the process by which the bill distributes that
number among the States ; and

3. To try both of them by the standard of the Constitution.

The bill does not announce, in terms, the principle of pro-
ceeding, either in the establishment of the total number of 120, or
its apportionment among the States. Some principle, however, it
must have ; otherwise, the omission would, of itself, be glaringly
unconstitutional, as creating a precedent for leaving the number
of the House of Eepresentatives, and the distribution of that
number, at the mere will of every different Congress. It must,
therefore, be sought by calculation.

1. By calculation, then, it appears, that neither 30,000, the
lowest constitutional limit, nor any higher number, if assumed as
D 14

210 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

the divisor of the federal numbers in each State, separately con-
sidered, will produce to each State such a number of representa-
tives, as, when added together, shall amount to 120.

We then naturally turn to the aggregate federal number of
the United States, to wit, 3,615,825 ; and the only divisor which
can draw 120 members from that number, is 30,000.

This, too, is the only mode by which 120 members can be
obtained by any act of arithmetic.

2. One hundred and twenty members are, in the next place,
to be distributed.

Here, too, we are informed, by calculation, that no common
divisor, applied to the federal number in each State, will allot so
many members as the bill prescribes. Thirty thousand will fail
with respect to eight out of fifteen States : a greater number, how
little soever above 30,000, will at least be as far from that result ;
and every number beyond a certain point would be farther and
farther still. The other seven States have the exact num-
ber of representatives which arises from a division of their fede-
ral numbers by 30,000. But as 30,000, taken as the divisor of
the federal population in each State, give one hundred and
twelve members ; as the remainder of the 120 members is eight;
and to each of the eight States having the highest fractions one
member is added, it may be safely concluded that Congress dis-
tributed the 120 members in this form.

3. In trying this double process by the standard of the
Constitution, we must first determine whether Congress were at
liberty to fix the total number of representatives, by dividing
the aggregate federal population of the United States, instead of
the separate federal population of each State.

The following passages in the Constitution are material on
this head : —

" [Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among
the several States according to their respective numbers."

" The number of representatives shall not exceed one for
every 30,000, but each State shall have at least one representa-
tive; and, until such enumeration shall be made, the State of
New Hampshire shall be entitled to choose three," &c.

jEt.35.] CABINET PAPERS. 211

Hence it is argued, that, as in laying direct taxes the sum
must be resolved upon before it can be apportioned, so a number
of representatives must be established before they can be appor-
tioned ; and this number can be procured only from the aggre-
gate federal population.

It is not doubted that this number must be the effect of some
rule ; and, in fact, we find the Constitution declaring it to be u accord-
ing to their respective numbers" that is, the numbers of each State.

Let it then be seen how direct taxes and representatives can be
in proportion to numbers; for, "proportion" and " apportion" may
be accepted, on this occasion, as synonymous. Direct taxes may
be apportioned according to numbers by the rule of three, thus :
as the whole population is to the sum required, so is a particular
population of a State to the sum to be paid by that State.
Through this means, every individual enters into the estimate,
and not a cent is lost. But it is not so with representatives. For,
with what propriety can it be stated with respect to representa-
tives, in a manner analogous to direct taxes ? Can it be said, as
the whole federal population is to the whole number of represent-
atives, so is the particular number of representatives to the
particular federal population of each State? It cannot be so
contended, for two reasons ; first, because, when the inquiry
itself is, what shall the whole number of representatives be, it is
false reasoning to assume that number as actually known al-
ready ; and, secondly, because, as representation is the deputation
of one man to act for many, more than one must be combined in
the account before a representative can exist. Of course, the
Constitution looked for a ratio as to representation, whereas it
computed individuals in taxes ; that is, numbers shall govern in
both cases, but they govern each subject according to its nature;
so at least as not to beget an absurdity.

Could Congress increase the House of Eepresentatives to 2-10
members ? No. Why ? Because they must not exceed one fo
thirty thousand. What thirty thousand ? Of the respective num-
bers ; namely, of each State. If aggregate or collective numbers
had been contemplated, how much easier would it have been,
and how much more proper, to have substituted other words

212 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

which, were so obviously at hand ? It seems to have been de-
signed to make up the total number of representatives just as a
stock in trade is created : each State is a contributor to it ; and
the contributors, added together, furnish the whole. In this way,
the first House of Eepresentatives is composed under the Consti-
tution : New Hampshire is to have three, &c.

Why are States to have any representatives, as States, if the
aggregate federal population is to decide the number ? It ought
rather to have been said in the Constitution that the boundaries
of the States should not be an obstacle ; but that the ratio should
yield a member, wherever the numbers should be found to fill
up that ratio. This never was intended. Are not the States
distinct in their rights of election? Can the numbers of one
county, even in the same State, assist another county in pro-
curing a member? Is it not repugnant to the spirit of the Con-
stitution to tack the numbers of one State to those of another,
for the purpose of procuring a member ? Is it not unexampled,
that New-York should, with its numbers, contribute towards a
member for New Jersey, when an elector of the former can have
no fellow-interest or sympathy with the electors of the latter;
and, without a freehold in the latter, would probably be debarred
of a suffrage therein ?

The fractions, it is true, are very large in many of the States ;
but such fractions are familiar in practice. In some States, repre-
sentatives are according to a certain ratio of population ; but the
number above one integer, and not equal to another, has always
been laid aside. In the management, too, of the National Bank,
many shares between two numbers constituting a vote, are unre-
spected. If the fraction of one State can raise a member for
another, it may often happen that the balance, which the States
wish to preserve among themselves, may be destroyed unexpect-
edly by their own act. What would the sensations of South
Carolina be, if her blacks should co-operate in giving a member
to Connecticut?

It is remarkable that most of the advocates of the bill do
themselves admit that the Constitution is susceptible of the con-
struction above mentioned, as well as of their own.

JEt.35.] cabinet papers. 213

The argument deduced from the amendment proposed to the
Constitution on the subject of representation, might be shown to
be inapplicable, even if it were admissible. But it is not admis-
sible ; because the amendment has not, as yet, become the sense
of the United States. It is inapplicable. For although it has
been observed, that, without recurring to the aggregate federal
population, it might happen that three millions of persons would
not give one hundred members ; the answer is full as strong, to
reply, that Congress would not be called upon to have one hun-
dred members, unless one hundred times 30,000 should be
contained in the separate federal populations of the several
States. Indeed, the amendment proves nothing either way.

In short, it is wonderful that, after admitting the necessity of
applying some ratio, and after perceiving that the application of
that ratio to the aggregate federal population will produce such
a number of representatives as cannot be distributed by any
ratio whatever, the friends to the bill should not have abandoned
it upon their own principles.

Here lies the radical objection, and the violation of the Con-
stitution. If it be not here, the Attorney-General must, in can-
dor, own that it is nowhere, in his opinion. For, if the 120
members can be established, the subdivision cannot be executed
in any other, or in any fairer manner. The ratio of 30,000 is
carried through the particular, as well as the aggregate federal
population, as far as it can ; and the remaining eight members
are distributed equitably.

This is the best judgment, therefore, which the Attorney-
General has been able to form without longer premeditation.
Whether the reasoning on the opposite side ought to weigh
against the interposition of a negative, it is not for him to decide.

Edm. Eandolph.

Recapitulation by Jefferson.

The opinion of the Secretary of State declares the bill uncon-
stitutional ; for it does not apportion the representatives among
the States, strictly, according to their numbers.

214 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

It provides for fractions which the Constitution never in-
tended.

It leaves the determination of apportioning the representatives
without any fixed principle, which may hereafter be productive
of great evil; and admits of caballing and bargaining on the
subject.

The bill carried by a small majority — one in the Senate, and
two in the House.

The whole of both Houses admit that the Constitution will
bear either to have the bill in its present state, or to have one for
30,000 in each State, leaving the fractions. But the minorities
will not admit the constitutionality of the present bill.

The Secretary of the Treasury has not seen the bill ; but pre-
sumes that the process for forming the result in the bill has been
in a certain way, which he mentions.

Thinks either the division of the aggregate number in the
United States by 80,000, or the particular number in each State
by that ratio, would be constitutional.

If a direct tax should be imposed, the only way of appor-
tioning it among the several States would be that which has
been pursued in the bill ; and, therefore, it is consonant to the
clause in the Constitution respecting representation and taxation,

That there would be a residue arising upon the whole, after
dividing the numbers in each State by 30,000 ; and that it is but
right that the States having the greatest fraction should receive
the benefit resulting from dividing the aggregate number in the
United States by 30,000.

The bill performs every requisite in the Constitution, in the
manner most consistent with equality.

Although the bill cannot be said to be unconstitutional, yet
there may be another construction of which the Constitution is
capable. But where it may be taken in either sense, it is best
to follow the legislative opinion.

The Secretary of War.
It has been said that the construction of the bill may be

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 215

deemed within the letter as well as the spirit of the Constitution.
If that is the case, the assent of the President of the United
States is to be governed by the political equity of the measure.

He approves the bill upon the principle of its giving a repre-
sentation to the largest fractions.

The constitutionality of the bill being only doubted, not
proved, it would appear a delicate measure for the President to
decide against the sense of the legislature.

The Attorney- General of the United States.

The bill does not express the principle or rule by which the
rumber of representatives is ascertained ; it is, therefore, to be
sought by calculation, which makes one to 30,000, taking the
whole number in the United States. But it will be found, that,
dividing the number in each State by 30,000, there will be found
eight States that will have each a member less than they now
have, if divided according to the numbers in the States respec-
tively-

The Constitution looks for a ratio in representation. But it
computed individuals as to taxes.

The bill destroys the distinction of States ; for the ratio
yields to numbers.

The advocates of the bill admit that the Constitution is sus-
ceptible of another construction, as well as of theirs.

Such a ratio is applied to the aggregate population of the
United States as produces a number that cannot be distributed
by any ratio whatever ; and, in this, lays the unconstitutionality
of the bill.

JEFFERSON" TO HAMILTON.

April 10th, 1792.
If the President should enter into a provisional convention
with the government of Algiers for a sum not exceeding forty

216 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [&T. 35.

thousand dollars, will the Senate advise and consent to its ratifi-
cation, the government of Algiers being made clearly to under-
stand that we are not to be bound by the treaty until it shall be
ratified ?

If this sum appears too high, what lower limit would the
Senate approve ?

If the President should enter into a provisional treaty of
peace with the government of Algiers at an expense not exceed-
ing dollars to be paid on the ratification, and dol-
lars payable annually afterwards, during its continuance, will the
Senate advise and consent to the ratification, the government cf
Algiers being made clearly to understand that we are not to be
bound by the treaty until it shall be ratified ?

If these sums appear too high, what lower limit would the
Senate approve ?

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, April 10th, 1792.

Sir:

My last letter to you was of the 2d instant.

It is proper that you be informed that a sum of eight thou-
sand three hundred and twenty-five dollars was paid here, on
application of M. de Tern ant, the Minister of France, to himself,
and twenty -two thousand dollars to M. de la Forest, the Vice-
Consul-General, on the 21st of February last, and the sum of one
hundred thousand dollars on the 12th of March. Three further
payments, of one hundred thousand dollars each, are engaged
to be made here, in like manner, on the 1st of June, on the 1st
of September, and on the 1st of December, next, or before, if
convenient. All these are payments on account of the debt due
to France.

P. S. An account against the government of France has
been settled at the treasury, for arms, ammunition, &c, amount-

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 217

ing to eight thousand nine hundred and sixty-two dollars, of
which a certified copy is here inclosed. This is also on account
of the debt due to France.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

April 12th, 1792.
The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor to communi-
cate to the President a resolution of the trustees of the sinking
fund, as of this morning. A particular piece of urgent business
prevents him personally waiting upon the President with it. It
is very much to be desired that the resolution may receive the
immediate decision of the President. It is upon the same prin-
ciples with the last.

HAMILTON TO SHOET.

Treasury Department, April 16th, 1792.

Sir:

The fluctuation of the price of the stocks in the United
States, is a circumstance that cannot have failed to attract your
attention, nor to excite a temporary feeling in the minds of
foreigners. Though I doubt not it will be well explained by
the agents of those citizens of other countries who have vested
their moneys in our funds, I think it necessary that some ideas
should be communicated to you, on which you can found a true
opinion, either for your own satisfaction or that of persons
interested in our national welfare, with whom you may have
occasion to confer.

The moderate size of the domestic debt of the United States
appears to have created the most intemperate ideas of specula-
tion in the minds of a very few persons, whose natural ardor

218 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^i. 35.

had been increased by great success in some of the early stages
of the melioration of the market value of the stock. To com-
binations of private capitals thus acquired or increased, sums of
specie, obtained as well at the most extravagant rates of pre-
mium as at common interest, were added, and to these were
joined purchases of stock on credits, for various terms, so as to
create a delusive confidence that the concentration of so much
stock in a few hands would secure a very high market rate.
This expectation was increased by comparing the market values
of the several species of our funds with those of the same species
of stock in Great Britain, the United Netherlands, and other
parts of Europe, without due allowance for the deductions which
should have been made on account of the great difference in the
value of money, and the objections arising from our distance
from those European money-holders whose capitals they ex-
pected to attract, and other relative circumstances. At the time
when many heavy engagements thus formed were becoming due,
some contentions among the dealers in, and proprietors of, the
debt, took place, and counter-combinations were formed to
render the crisis of payment and speculation as inconvenient
and disadvantageous as possible. By these means those eventual
contracts, it was probably hoped, could be more cheaply com-
plied with ; and, moreover, that a reduced market would afford
further opportunities of beneficial speculation. The extreme
indiscretion of the first mentioned speculations, and the distress
which, it was manifest, they must produce, excited perhaps and
animated the movements of the other party, and brought on a
scene of private distress for money, both artificial and real,
which probably has not been equalled in this country. It hap-
pened in the winter season, when the influx of cash articles of
trade, as returns from abroad, is nearly suspended, and when
quantities of specie were sent from the sea-ports to the interior
country, for the purchase of produce to supply the demand for
the spring exportation.

The banks, who can always perceive the approach of these
things, were influenced to limit their operations, and particularly
the Bank of the United States, which was then preparing for the

jEt. 35.] cabinet papers. 219

opening of its branches, or offices of discount and deposit, in
Boston, New- York, Baltimore, and Charleston.

The United States, you would presume, could not be insensi-
ble of so fit a moment to make purchases of the public stock, and
the Treasurer was accordingly authorized to buy ; but, though the
appearances of private distress for money were so great, he could
not obtain for several days the sum of fifty thousand dollars, at
the highest rates at which the public purchases had before been
made. The holders who were free from engagements were averse
to selling ; the principal persons who were under engagements
they could not comply with, were obliged or disposed to place
their effects in the hands of their creditors, who did not choose
to add to their own disappointments of great profits actual losses
by unseasonable sales of the bankrupts' property. The stock in
the market, therefore, was really made scarce. A quarter's in-
terest has just been paid. Some of the cautious moneyed people
have begun to purchase. The specie is returning from the coun-
try, and the heaviest private engagements having now fallen due,
the declension of stock may be considered as arrested. There is
little doubt that the difficulty for money among the dealers in
the debt will be at no time so great as it has been, after the
present week, and that changes of a favorable complexion are to
be confidently expected ; at first moderate, perhaps, afterwards
such as will carry the funds up to their due value.

Should you be of opinion that the state of things in France
will render some intimation of these events useful there, you will
be good enough to communicate them to Mr. Morris, our minis-
ter at that court.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, May 7, 1792.

Sir:

The President having ratified the three last loans, namely,
one for six millions of florins, at five per cent, interest ; one of

220 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 35.

three millions, at four per cent. ; and that which has been nego-
tiated at Antwerp ; I herewith transmit you the instrument of
ratification concerning the latter. The two former I have
thought best to inclose directly to the commissioners in Amster-
dam, under an impression that this at the time of its arrival may
possibly not find you at the Hague.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, May 9, 1792.

Sir:

I have the honor to send herewith an adjustment at the treas-
ury concerning the quantity of acres in warrants for army bounty
rights, which ought to be deemed an equivalent for the 214,285
acres of land mentioned in the second enacting clause of the act
entitled " An act authorizing the grant and conveyance of cer-
tain lands to the Ohio Company of Associates ;" and a certificate
of the delivery of the requisite quantity of warrants in conformity
to that adjustment.

It is with regret I find myself required by law to discharge
an official duty in a case in which I happen to be interested as a
party, and which is capable of being regulated by different con-
structions.

Thus circumstanced, I have conceived it proper to repose
myself on the judgment of others, and having referred the matter
to the accounting officers of the treasury, with the opinion of the
Attorney-General, which was previously obtained, I have gov-
erned myself by the determination of those officers.

I. submit it, nevertheless, to the President, whether it will not
be advisable to require as a condition to the issuing of the grant,
that the parties give bond to pay any deficiency which there may
be in the quantity of warrants delivered, if the legislature, at the
ensuing session, shall decide that the construction which has been
adopted is not the true one, or to surrender the letters patent for
the tract in question.

JSt.35.] cabinet papers. 221

HAMILTON TO SHOKT.

Treasury Department, June 14, 1792.

Sir:

Your two letters of the 26th of January and 24th of March
have come to hand since mine to you of the 7th of May.

For an answer to the first, I believe I need do nothing more
than refer you to former communications. On the latter some
observations arise.

You will consider any suggestions which you may find in my
letters concerning a rule for adjusting the value of the payments
to France rather as hints than instructions. I must, however,
repeat my wish that the point may be now settled. If left for
future liquidation, and brought to the seat of our government,
considerations may be pressed, which may embarrass a proper
adjustment of the matter, though foreign to those which ought
really to govern in such a case. There can be no juncture more
favorable than the present for placing the affair upon an eligible
footing.

The management of this matter, as well as of every other
which may concern the reimbursement to France, remains with
you. If, in compliance with official usages, Mr. Morris's instru-
mentality should be requisite, he will be instructed to co-operate.
I shall learn with pleasure that the operation which you were
meditating with Boyed and Keir has been carried into execution.
That which you state as the only objection to it would not, un-
der existing circumstances, be of much weight. The pecuniary
ability, too, of the parties and their connections, would be a ma-
terial security against some of the principal inconveniences,
which were to be apprehended from the accumulation in ques-
tion. And, by creating another moneyed combination interested
in the funds of the country, it may even, in some respects, tend
to render its credit less dependent on the speculations and resour-
ces of a small number of individuals.

It will, however, be a very valuable ingredient in the arrange-
ment, if it shall embrace an adjustment of the indemnification to

222 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

France for the depreciation of the assignats. You will perceive
that I am solicitous this point should, in no event, remain unde*
termined.

Your anxiety on the subject, which closes your letter, is na-
tural, but not necessary. The situation you have been in is pro-
perly appreciated ; and that of your successor will be so likewise.
You need not apprehend misconstruction either on the part of
the government or of the community.

Accept my thanks for the continuance of your attention to
the course of the Baltic navigation, and believe me always to be,
with sentiments of real consideration and esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, June 19th, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor to submit to the
President of the United States a provisional contract entered into
between the superintendent of the Delaware light-house and Abra-
ham Hargis, for sinking a well for the accommodation of that
light-house, together with a Eeport of the Commissioner of the
Eevenue, on the subject, and some explanatory statements.

The Secretary has delayed this communication, under an im-
pression that the allowance was excessive, and with a hope that
something better might be done ; but reputable workmen who
have been consulted, appear to be of opinion that the charge is
not unreasonable, and no other person has been found disposed
to undertake at a lower rate. More from the latter circumstance,
than from a conviction that the terms are not less moderate than
they ought to be, the contract is now submitted. The approba-
tion of it may be qualified by a reservation, that if all the ma-
terial mentioned in the estimate B, are not used on the work, a
proportional deduction shall be made from the sum stipulated.
This, it is represented, will be agreed to by Mr. Hargis.

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 223

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, June 23d, 1792.

Sir:

After closing my letter to you of the 14th instant, the Comp-
troller, to whom I had submitted for examination the statement
of the French treasury transmitted by you, made some commu-
nications to me on that subject, of which copies are here inclosed
for your information.

My own observations upon it must necessarily be reserved
for another opportunity, as Mr. Pinkney, who will take charge
of my letters, is to embark for London to-day.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.
Treasury Department, Comptroller's Office, June 22d, 1792,

Sir:

I have the honor to inclose for your inspectioD a statement of
the loans received by the United States from the government of
France, with a calculation of the interest due thereon to the first
day of January, 1792. In this statement no notice is taken of
the advances made at the treasury of the United States, or of
the remittances by the Dutch Commissioners on account of said
loans.

In the account transmitted by Mr. Short, I observe that the
following charges are made, for advances to the United States,
which, it is said, the French government has assumed to dis-
charge :

224 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

£. s. d.

By the Directors of the Powder Magazines, 196,481 15 3

" " Department of War, - - 1,052,345 11 6
" " Administration for clothing the

Troops, - - - 134,065 7 6

" " Farmers General, - - - 846,770 14 5
And for interest on the above mentioned
sums, from Sept. 3, 1783, to Dec. 31,

1791, at five per cent., - - 928,095 0 0

Amounting to, Livres 3,157,758 00 0

On these charges I think it proper to observe, that the gov-
ernment of France retained the sum of five millions of livres
out of the loan of ten millions, to pay for certain articles of
clothing and military stores which were ordered by Col. Laurens
for the use of the United States. It will appear from the in-
closed account, which has been extracted from the books of
Thomas Barclay, Commissioner of Foreign Accounts, that the
French government has already received credit for the two first
mentioned sums, and that the third is a balance appearing due
to the French government, on account of the excess of the sup-
plies received above the five millions which were retained out of
the loan.

To the claim for this balance of £134,065, the United States
have, however, a just right to oppose a much more considerable
demand, which remains to be liquidated between the two gov-
ernments, for supplies furnished to the marine of France, under
the agency of John Holker, Esq., late Consul-General.

It is much to be desired that some arrangement for effecting
a settlement should be soon concerted ; and, from the nature of
the claim, and the evidence by which it is to be supported, it is
my opinion that it ought to be adjusted in this country.

I had the honor to transmit to you, on the 29th of March,
sundry documents relating to the claim of the Farmers General ;
as the balance of their account now appears to have been as.
sumed by the French government, it appears to be necessary to

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 225

ascertain whether the loan of the Farmers General was not com-
prehended as a part of the aids granted before the treaty of
February, 1778 ; and, if not so comprehended, to demand a dis-
closure of the person to whom one million of livres, which has
not been brought to the credit of the United States, was paid.
I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, &c.

"N. B. It is supposed that the claim for supplies furnished to
the marine of France, may amount to about two hundred thou-
sand dollars.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, June 30th, 1792.

Sir:

I have before me your letter of the 2 2d of April last.

As I doubt not the details of the projected arrangement will
have sufficient latitude, as to time, to avoid embarrassment to the
treasury, it cannot but be satisfactory.

A bill has been drawn in favor of the Secretary of State, on
our Commissioners, for one hundred and twenty-three thousand
seven hundred and fifty guilders, which, together with the five
hundred thousand, of which you were advised by my letter of
the 2d of April last, will constitute part of the fund which may
be reserved for the arrangement in question. I shall forbear any
further drafts till I am advised of its completion.

You will no doubt take care to retain a competent sum for the
payment of the interest which shall be payable during the present
year on the Dutch and Antwerp loans.

D 15

226 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, July 22d, 1792.

Sir:

I wrote to you on Monday last, transmitting a resolution of
the Commissioners of the Sinking Fund. Nothing in the way of
public business requiring your attention has since occurred.

There is a matter I beg leave to mention to you confidentially,
in which your interposition, if you deem it advisable, may have
a good effect.

I have long had it at heart that some good system of regula-
tions for the forwarding supplies to the army, issuing them there
and accounting for them to the department of war, should be estab-
lished. On conversing with the Secretary at War, I do not find
that any such now exists : nor have the intimations I have taken
the liberty to give on the subject, though perfectly well received,
hitherto produced the desired effect. The utility of the thing
does not seem to be as strongly impressed on the mind of the
Secretary at War as it is on mine.

It has occurred to me that if you should think fit to call by
letter upon the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary at
War to report to you the system and regulations under which the
procuring, issuing and accounting for supplies to the army is con-
ducted, it would produce what appears to be now wanting. I
submit the idea accordingly.

With the most perfect respect and truest attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, July 25th, 1792.

Sir:

Your letters of the 25th of April and 14th of May have
duly reached me; since the receipt of that of the 22 d of April,
which was acknowledged in mine of the 80th of June.

In consequence of your letter of the 14th of May, I have

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 227

directed drafts on the Commissioners for five hundred thousand
guilders, and, as soon as these are sold, I shall cause further
drafts to be made to the extent of five hundred thousand guilders
in addition to the above mentioned five hundred thousand. The
residue of the moneys heretofore announced to have been bor-
rowed, will be left subject to your disposition towards payment
of interest on the Dutch and Antwerp loans, during the present
year, and of the debt due to France, with the surplus.

In speaking of the interest on the Dutch and Antwerp loans,
I wish to be understood that I rely for the payment of this inter-
est during the present year on the funds which are or shall be in
the hands of the Commissioners, arising from loans that have
been or may be made. Whether you will leave unemployed in
their hands moneys equivalent to the interest for the entire year,
or will rely upon a further loan to be made, applying a greater
proportion of the moneys already obtained in payment to France,
ought to be regulated upon the degree of certainty of effecting
such further loan on admissible terms. This, therefore, is left to
your discretion.

The statements A and B herewith transmitted will show you
the view which I have of the moneys that would remain in the
hands of the Commissioners on the loans heretofore known to
have been effected, after paying all the bills heretofore drawn
and deducting the interest on the Dutch and Antwerp loans to
the end of the present year; namely, 2,120,477 guilders and 15
stivers. From this sum you will only have to deduct, to satisfy
any further disposition on my part, the sum of five hundred
thousand guilders, still intended to be drawn for.

This statement, however, ought not to be acted upon by you
as definitively accurate. It will be proper that you ascertain with
the Commissioners with greater certainty what will remain at
your disposal.

Mr. Morris must have misapprehended the tenor of the Secre-
tary of State's letter, from which he inferred that it was the
intention of this government to transfer to France the loss by
depreciation on the assign ats. It has been determined by the
President that the United States will not take advantage of the

228 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 35.

depreciation, but will make an equitable adjustment of the

affair.

You observe that " the rate of exchange and the current difference
between specie and paper being known here, (that is at Paris,)
furnish the basis for regulating the business."

I remark that much will depend on the manner of applying
these data. They may be so applied as to create a positive loss
to the United States ; as, if the rate of exchange below par
should be less than the rate of depreciation, and the former
should be added, the latter deducted.

For example : by a French paper of the 20th of April, if I
understand it aright, exchange between Paris and Amsterdam
was about 36 per cent, against Paris — the depreciation of the
assignats about 60 per cent.

If, then, the computation was made by adding the rate of
exchange, and deducting the rate of depreciation, there would
be a loss upon every hundred guilders in Amsterdam, paid in
Paris, of 45 guilders and T6/o of a guilder.

Thus, add to 100 guilders 36 per cent., for the rate of ex-
change, the product is . . . . 136 guilders. '

Deduct, for depreciation, 60 per cent, or . 81.60

There would remain, 54.40
as the equivalent for 100 guilders in Amsterdam, which would
involve a loss of 45-60 guilders per hundred.

I take it for granted that this method of applying the data
cannot have been contemplated, as it would throw upon the
United States a heavy real loss, in consequence of the disorders
which exist in the affairs of France. Though the United States
are not disposed to take any undue advantage, they cannot be
supposed to be willing to suffer a loss.

You will have perceived, from my letter of the 4th of June
last, that it was the President's pleasure that your agency in the
whole of the pecuniary affairs originally committed to you, as well
respecting the debt to France as otherwise, should continue, and
that Mr. Morris, as representative of the United States at the
court of France, would be instructed to co-operate. I under-

jEt.35.] cabinet papers. 229

stand the Secretary of State that the instruction has been for-
warded, though I feel full confidence that the requisite co-
operation will have been afforded, independently of any in-
struction.

P. S. A copy of the report of the 23d of January last is here
inclosed.

A.

A Statement of the Payments to be made by Messrs. Willink, Van
Staphorst & Hubbard, and of the moneys in their hands on the
1st of February, 1792.

The account current of the said date states a balance due to the United

States, of 2,500,220

On the last three million loan they received —

1791, Dec. 31, 509,000

1792, Jan. 31, 701,000

Remained to be received, 1,790,000

1,790,000

3,000,000

In the hands of the Commissioners, 4,290,220

Payments to be made ;

Drafts remaining unpaid, as per list B, . . 175,044.15

Jan. 27, draft No. 541, in favor of Thos. Jefferson, . 95,947.10

Apl. 17, drafts Nos. 542, 628, John Kean, . . 500,000

June 30, draft No. 630, Thos. Jefferson, . . . 123,750

July, drafts Nos. 631, 715,* John Kean, . . . 500,000

1.394.742.5

Interest to be paid :

March 1st, on 2£ million, at 5 per cent., . . . 125,000

June 1st, on 7 million, at 5 per cent., . . . 350.000

Sept 1st, on 6 million, at 6 per cent., . . . 300,000

-2,169.742.5

Leaving the sum not disposed of 2,120,477.15

John Meyer, PI. Clerk.
Treasury Department, July 25th, 1790.

* Some of these drafts remain yet to be drawn.
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[JEt. 35.

B.

A Statement of the Treasury Drafts on the Commissioners in Amster-
dam^ which remained unpaid on the 1st of February \ 1792.

1791.

Guilders.

October 31, No.

361, .

10.000

November 2, Nc

>. 386, 391—6 drafts

a 4,000 each,

2-1.000

c

2,

410, 411—2 drafts

a 3,000 "

6,000

■

5,
' 8,

425, 426 " "
439,

3,044.15
918.14.8

' io,

442, 450—9 "

a 1,000 "

.

9,000

1 io,

454, 459—6 "

a 1,000 "

6,000

1 io,

460, 467—8 "

a 2,000 "

16,000

1 io,

469, 480—12 "

a 2,000 "

24,000

' io,

481,492—12 "

a 3,000 "

36,000

1 io,

500,

" 3,000

' io,

514,

1,000

1 io,

516,

1,081.5.8

' io,

519, 522—4, "

a 5,000 "

20,000

< 10,

523,

2,000

' io,

526,

4,000

1 io,

527,

5,000

1 io,

537,

4,000

175,044.15

Treasury Department, July 5th. 1790.

John Meyer, PI. Clerk.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private and confidential.)

Mount Vernon, July 29, 1792.

My Dear Sir :

I have not yet received the new regulation of allowances to
the surveyors or collectors of the duties on spirituous liquors ; —
but this by the bye. My present purpose is to write you a letter
on a more interesting and important subject. I shall do it in
strict confidence, and with frankness and freedom.

At. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 231

On my way home, and since my arrival here, I have endeav-
ored to learn from sensible and moderate men, known friends to
the government, the sentiments which are entertained of public
measures. These all agree that the country is prosperous and
happy ; but they seem to be alarmed at that system of policy,
and those interpretations of the Constitution, which have taken
place in Congress.

Others, less friendly perhaps to the government, and more
disposed to arraign the conduct of its officers (among whom may
be classed my neighbor and quondam friend, Colonel M.), go
further, and enumerate a variety of matters, which, as well as I
can recollect, may be adduced under the following heads, viz : —

First. — That the public debt is greater than we can possibly
pay before other causes of adding new debt to it will occur ; and
that this has been artificially created by adding together the
whole amount of the debtor and creditor sides of the accounts,
instead of taking only their balances, which could have been paid
off in a short time.

Second. — That this accumulation of debt has taken for ever
out of our power those easy sources of revenue which, applied
to the ordinary necessities and exigencies of government, would
have animated them habitually, and covered us from habitual
murmurings against taxes and tax-gatherers ; referring extraordi-
nary calls for extraordinary occasions, would animate the people
to meet them.

Third. — That the calls for money have been no greater
than we must generally expect, for the same or equivalent exi-
gencies ; yet we are already obliged to strain the impost till it
produces clamor, and will produce evasion, and war on our citi-
zens to collect it, and even to resort to an excise law, of odious
character with the people ; partial in its operation ; unproductive
unless enforced by arbitrary and vexatious means, and commit-
ting the authority of the government, in parts where resistance
is most probable and coercion least practicable.

Fourth. — They cite propositions in Congress, and suspect
other projects on foot, still to increase the mass of the debt.

Fifth. — They say that, by borrowing at two-thirds of the

232 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 35.

interest, we might have paid off the principal in two-thirds of
the time ; but that from this we are precluded by its being made
irredeemable but in small portions, and long terms.

Sixth. — That this irredeemable quality was given it for the
avowed purpose of inviting its transfer to foreign countries.

Seventh. — They predict that this transfer of the principal,
when completed, will occasion an exportation of three millions
of dollars annually for the interest ; a drain of coin, of which, as
there has been no example, no calculation can be made of its
consequences.

Eighth. — That the banishment of our coin will be completed
by the creation of ten millions of paper money, in the form of
bank bills, now issuing into circulation.

Ninth. — They think the ten or twelve per cent, annual profit
paid to the lenders of this paper medium, are taken out of the
pockets of the people, who would have had without interest the
coin it is banishing.

Tenth. — That all the capital employed in paper speculation is
barren and useless, producing, like that on a gaming table, no
accession to itself, and is withdrawn from commerce and agri-
culture, where it would have produced addition to the common
mass.

Eleventh. — That it nourishes in our citizens vice and idleness
instead of industry and morality.

Twelfth. — That it has furnished effectual means of corrupting
such a portion of the legislature as turns the balance between
the honest voters whichever way it is directed.

Thirteenth. — That this corrupt squadron, deciding the voice of
the legislature, have manifested their dispositions to get rid of
the limitations imposed by the Constitution on the general legis-
lature ; limitations, on the faith of which the States acceded to
that instrument.

Fourteenth. — That the ultimate object of all this is, to prepare
the way for a change from the present republican form of gov-
ernment to that of a monarchy, of which the British constitution
is to be the model.

Fifteenth. — That this was contemplated in the Convention

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 233

they say is no secret, because its partisans have made none of it.
To effect it then was impracticable ; but they are still eager after
their object, and are predisposing every thing for its ultimate
attainment.

Sixteenth. — So many of them have got into the legislature,
that, aided by the corrupt squadron of paper dealers, who are at
their devotion, they make a majority in both houses.

Seventeenth. — The republican party who wish to preserve the
government in its present form are fewer, even when joined by
the two, three, or half a dozen antifederalists, who, though they
dare not avow it, are still opposed to any general government ;
but, being less so to a republican than a monarchical one, they
naturally join those whom they think pursuing the lesser evil.

Eighteenth. — Of all the mischiefs objected to the system of
measures before mentioned, none, they add, is so afflicting, and
fatal to every honest hope, as the corruption of the legislature ;
as it was the earliest of these measures, it became the instrument
for producing the rest, and will be the instrument for producing
in future a king, lords, and commons, or whatever else those
who direct it may choose. Withdrawn such a distance from
the eye of their constituents, and these so dispersed as to be
inaccessible to public information, and particularly to that of the
conduct of their own representatives, they will form the worst
government upon earth, if the means of their corruption be not
prevented.

Nineteenth. — The only hope of safety, they say, hangs now on
the numerous representation which is to come forward the ensu-
ing year ; but should the majority of the new members be still
in the same principles with the present — show so much derelic-
tion to republican government, and such a disposition to encroach
upon, or explain away the limited powers of the Constitution, in
order to change it, it is not easy to. conjecture what would be the
result, nor what means would be resorted to for correction of the
evil. True wisdom, they acknowledge, should direct temperate
and peaceable measures, but add, the division of sentiment and
interest happens, unfortunately, to be so geographical, that no
mortal cay say that what is most wise and temperate, would pre-

234 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

vail against what is more easy and obvious ; they declare they
can contemplate no evil more incalculable than the breaking of
the Union into two or more parts ; yet when they view the mass
which opposed the original coalescence ; when they consider that
it lay chiefly in the southern quarter — that the legislature have
availed themselves of no occasion of allaying it, but on the con-
trary, whenever northern and southern prejudices have come into
conflict, the latter have been sacrificed and the former soothed.

Tvjentieth. — That the owners of the debt are in the southern,
and the holders of it in the northern division.

Twenty-first. — That the antifecleral champions are now
strengthened in argument by the fulfilment of their predictions,
which has been brought about by the monarchical federalists
themselves ; who, having been for the new government merely
as a stepping-stone to monarchy, have themselves adopted the
very construction, of which, when advocating its acceptance be-
fore the tribunal of the people, they declared it insusceptible,
whilst the republican federalists, who espoused the same govern-
ment, for its intrinsic merits, are disarmed of their weapons, that
which they denied as prophecy being now become true history.
Who therefore can be sure, they ask, that these things may not
proselyte the small number which was wanting to place the ma-
jority on the other side ? and this, they add, is the event at which
they tremble.

These, as well as my memory serves me, are the sentiments
which, directly and indirectly, have been disclosed to me.

To obtain light, and to pursue truth, being my sole aim, and
wishing to have before me explanations of, as well as the com-
plaints, on measures in which the public interest, harmon}r, and
peace is so deeply concerned, and my public conduct so much in-
volved, it is my request, and you would oblige me in furnishing
me, with your ideas upon the discontents here enumerated — and
for this purpose I have thrown them into heads or sections, and
numbered them, that those ideas may apply to the correspondent
numbers.

Although I do not mean to hurry you in giving your
thoughts on the occasion of this letter, yet, as soon as you can

JEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 235

make it convenient to yourself, it would, for more reasons than
one, be agreeable and very satisfactory to me.

The enclosure in your letter of the 16th was sent back the
post after I received it, with my approving signature ; and in a
few days I will write to the purpose mentioned in your letter of
the 2 2d, both to the Secretary of War and yourself. At present
all my business, public and private, is on my own shoulders.
The two young gentlemen who came home with me, being on
visits to their friends ; and my nephew, the Major, too much in-
disposed to afford me any aid in copying, or other matters.
With affectionate regard, I am, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, July 30, 1792,

Sir:

I received the most sincere pleasure at finding in our late
conversation, that there was some relaxation in the disposition
you had before discovered to decline a re-election. Since your
departure, I have left no opportunity of sounding the opinions
of persons, whose opinions were worth knowing, on these two
points. 1st. The effect of your declining upon the public affairs,
and upon your own reputation. 2dly. The effect of your contin-
uing, in reference to the declarations you have made of your
disinclination to public life ; and I can truly say that I have not
found the least difference of sentiment, on either point. The im-
pression is uniform, that your declining would be to be deplored
as the greatest evil that could befall the country at the present
juncture, and as critically hazardous to your own reputation —
that your continuance will be justified in the mind of every friend
to his country, by the evident necessity for it. 5Tis clear, says
every one with whom I have conversed, that the affairs of the
national government are not yet firmly established — that its ene-
mies, generally speaking, arc as inveterate as ever — that their

236 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [;Et. 35.

enmity has been sharpened by its success, and by ail the resent-
ments which flow from disappointed predictions and mortified
vanity — that a general and strenuous effort is making in every
State, to place the administration of it in the hands of its ene-
mies, as if they were its safest guardians — that the period of the
next House of Representatives is likely to prove the crisis of its
permanent character — that if you continue in office, nothing ma-
terially mischievous is to be apprehended — if you quit, much is
to be dreaded — that the same motives which induced you to ac-
cept originally ought to decide you to continue till matters have
assumed a more determined aspect — that indeed it would have
been better, as it regards your own character, that you had never
consented to come forward, than now to leave the business unfin-
ished and in danger of being undone — that in the event of
storms arising, there would be an imputation either of want of
foresight or want of firmness — and in fine, that on public and
personal accounts, on patriotic and prudential considerations, the
clear path to be pursued by you will be, again to obey the voice
of your country ; which it is not doubted will be as earnest and
as unanimous as ever.

On this last point, I have some suspicion that it will be in-
sinuated to you, and perhaps (God forgive me, if I judge hardly)
with design to place before you a motive for declining — that
there is danger of a division among the electors, and of less una-
nimity in their suffrages than heretofore. My view of this matter
is as follows.

While your first election was depending, I had no doubt that
there would be characters among the electors, who, if they durst
follow their inclinations, would have voted against you ; but that
in all probability they would be restrained by an apprehension
of public resentment — that nevertheless it was possible a few
straggling votes might be found in opposition, from some head-
strong and fanatical individuals — that a circumstance of this kind
would be in fact, and ought to be estimated by }^ou, as of no im-
portance, since there would be sufficient unanimity to witness the
general confidence and attachment towards you.

My view of the future accords exactly with what was my

Mt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 287

view of the past. I believe the same motives will operate to
produce the same result. The dread of public indignation will
be likely to restrain the indisposed few. If they can calculate
at all, they will naturally reflect that they could not give a se-
verer blow to their cause than by giving a proof of hostility to
you. But if a solitary vote or two should appear wanting to
perfect unanimity, of what moment can it be? Will not the
fewness of the exceptions be a confirmation of the devotion of
the community to a character which has so generally united its
suffrages after an administration of four years at the head of a
new government, opposed in its first establishment by a large
proportion of its citizens, and obliged to run counter to many
prejudices in devising the arduous arrangements requisite to pub-
lic credit and public order ? Will not those who may be the
authors of any such exceptions, manifest more their own per-
verseness and malevolence than any diminution of the affection
and confidence of the nation ? I am persuaded that both these
questions ought to be answered in the affirmative, and that there
is nothing to be looked for, on the score of diversity of sentiment,
which ought to weigh for a moment.

I trust, sir, and I pray God, that you will determine to make
a further sacrifice of your tranquillity and happiness to the pub-
lic good. I trust that it need not continue above a year or two
more ; and I think that it will be more eligible to retire from
office before the expiration of a term of election, than to decline
a re-election.

The sentiments I have delivered upon this occasion, I can
truly say, proceed exclusively from an anxious concern for the
public welfare, and an affectionate personal attachment. These
dispositions must continue to govern in every vicissitude one
who has the honor to be, very truly and respectfully, &c.

August 3d. Since writing the foregoing, I am favored with
your interesting letter of the 29th of July. An answer to the
points raised is not difficult, and shall as soon as possible be
forwarded.

238 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 1st August, 1792.

Sir:

I learn with pleasure from the War Office, by the Secretary's
last dispatches, that our north-western frontier is in a state of
tranquillity. It may be construed into an indication that some
of the messages which, have been sent by government, have
reached the hostile tribes, and have occasioned them to deliberate
thereon. Devoutly is it to be wished that the result may be fa-
vorable, both for themselves and the United States.

No expectation of this, however, ought to suspend, or in the
least degree relax, the preparations for war ; but as war under
any circumstances is expensive, and, with such a long and
rugged land transportation as the one by which we have to con-
vey the supplies for the army, must for the quantum of them be
extremely so, it behoves us to be as precise in all our arrange-
ments, as economical in our provisions, as strict in our issues, and
as correct in accounting for them to the War or Treasury Depart-
ments (as the case may happen to be) as possible. That I may
know under what regulation these matters are, I have by this
day's post written to the Secretary of War, desiring him to re-
port to me the mode which is pursued by his direction from
thence, for providing, transporting, issuing, and accounting for
them. If the Treasury Department has an agency in any of
these matters, I require a similar report from thence also.

Mr. Kean, by a letter which I have received from him, ac-
cepts his renewed commission for settling the accounts between
the United States and the individual States, which, please to say
to him, gives me pleasure ; and add, that any efforts he can make
to bring this business to a speedy and happy issue, I shall con-
sider as rendering an important service to the Union, because I
view the closing of the accounts speedily as extremely essential
to its interest and tranquillity. Let me know if Mr. Langdon,
the commissioner, is returned to his duty; and, in that case,
when. I am, dear sir, &c.

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 239

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, 3d August, 1792.

Sir:

I have the honor to inclose a letter from the Commissioner of
the Ee venue of the 25th of July, on the subject of a provisional
contract for the supply of the light-house in New Hampshire ;
together with the contract for your consideration and decision.
I agree in the opinion expressed by the Commissioner of the
Kevenue.

With the most perfect and truest attachment, &c.

P. S. — Inclosed you will be pleased to receive the copy of a
letter of the 31st of May, just received from our Commissioners
at Amsterdam. It announces a further loan of 3,000,000 of
florins, at 4 per cent.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, August 4th, 1792.

Sir:

Since my last to you on the 25th ultimo, I have received a
letter from our Commissioners at Amsterdam, informing me of
their having recently instituted another loan for the United
States, of three millions, at 4 per cent, interest, to be dated the
1st of June last.

I have concluded to destine the money, arising from this loan,
towards paying the debt due to France, and you will accordingly
apply it to that object.

240 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

JEFFERSON TO TERNANT.

August, 1792.

I have communicated to the President what passed between
us the other clay on the subject of the payments made to France
by the United States in the assignats of that country since they
have lost the par with gold and silver ; and after conferences by
his instruction with the Secretary of the Treasury, I am autho-
rized to inform you that the government have no idea of paving
their debt in a depreciated medium, and that they will take
measures for making these payments in their just value, avoiding
all benefit from depreciation, and desiring on their part to be
guarded against any unjust loss from the circumstance of mere
exchange.

I have the honor to be, with the most perfect esteem and
respect, &c.

HAMILTON" TO JEFFERSON.

August, 1792.
Mr. Hamilton presents his compliments to the Secretary of
State. He would think the turn of expression on the whole
safer, if instead of what follows the words " depreciated me-
dium" the following was substituted — "and that in the final
liquidation of the payments, which shall have been made, due
regard will be had for an equitable allowance for the circum-
stance of depreciation."

jEt.35.] cabinet papers. 241

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 5th August, 1792.

Sir:

Since the date of my last dispatch to you of the 1st instant I
have received your letters of the 26th and 30th ultimo, and have
affixed my signature to the arrangement of compensations to the
officers of inspection, in consequence of additional latitude given
to the President of the United States, by the act of the last ses-
sion, entitled " An act concerning the duties on spirits distilled
within the United States."

I have done this on full conviction, that the best information
the nature of the case would admit has been obtained at the
treasury, to keep the aggregate within the limitations of the law,
and to proportion the compensation to the services of the respec-
tive officers ; presuming also, that it appeared, from a full view of
circumstances, and benefits likely to be derived from the mea-
sure to the public, that an increase of the officers of revenue was
really necessary, for I should be unwilling to add to the former
establishment, unless the propriety of it was apparent. Unless
the Attorney-General should be of opinion, that the President of
the United States has power, under the act of March, 1791, or
the subsequent one of the last session, to appoint, in the recess
of the Senate, an inspector of the survey newly instituted in
Maryland, it must remain, as is proposed, under the immediate
direction of the supervisor.

If after these regulations are in operation, opposition to the
due exercise of the collection is still experienced and peaceable
procedure is no longer effectual, the public interest and my duty
will make it necessary to enforce the laws respecting this mat-
ter; and however disagreeable this would be to me, it must
nevertheless take place.

The collector was not at Baltimore when I passed through

that place ; but from the naval officer I learned, that the service

would sustain no loss by the resignation of the master of the

Maryland revenue cutter, that the first mate was a more compe-

D 16

242 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

tent character, and that the general expectation was that he
would be appointed to command it. That I might know how
far the sentiments of others accorded with those of the naval
officer, I requested the supervisor, Mr. Gale, to make inquiry,
and to inform me of the result, but not having heard from him
since, the first mate (his name I do not recollect) may be notified
by you of my intention to commission him master, so soon as I
am provided with commissions for that purpose. At present I
have none. The same may be given to John Adams, as first,
and Benjamin Gunnison as second mate of the revenue cutter in
New Hampshire ; and to Ashur Cook as first, and John Fenley
as second mate of the New- York cutter. The third mate for the
cutter may remain for further inquiry and consideration.

If your information with respect to the proposed characters
for the cutter in New Hampshire, is not such as you can en-
tirely rely upon, Mr. Lear, who is on the spot, might afford
you some aid in the investigation of them or others.
I am, Sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, August 10th, 1792.

Sir:

I have been duly honored with your letters of the 1st and
5th instant. A copy of the latter is inclosed according to your
desire.

You may depend upon it, sir, that nothing shall be wanting
in this department to furnish all requisite supplies for the army
with efficiency and economy, and to bring to exact account all
persons concerned in them as far as shall consist with the pow-
ers of the department. Hitherto moneys have been furnished to
the War Department as they have been called for, for procuring
all those articles which have not been objects of direct contract
with the Treasury. And I learn from the Secretary of War that
every thing is in great maturity.

Mt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 243

Under the former system, provisions and clothing were the
only articles which the Treasury had the charge of procuring ;
the receiving, issuing, and inspecting their quality belonged to
the Department of War by usage.

The act of the last session, entitled " An act making altera-
tions in the Treasury and War Departments," prescribes that all
purchases and contracts for all supplies for the use of the Depart-
ment of War, be made by or under the direction of the Treasury
Department.

As much progress has been made in the preparation for the
campaign, prior to the passing of this act, by the Secretary of
War, I thought it best to continue the business under his imme-
diate care for some time — till in fact all the arrangements begun
should be completed. It is now, however, determined that on
the first of September the business of procuring all supplies will
be begun under the immediate direction of the Treasury, upon
estimates and requisitions from time to time furnished and made
by the Department of War.

The arrangement which is contemplated for this purpose is
the following: — Provisions and clothing will be provided as
heretofore, by contracts made by the Secretary of the Treasury
pursuant to previous advertisements. Articles in the quartermas-
ter's department will be to be procured by him, or his agents or
deputies ; for which purpose, advances of money will be made to
him directly, to be accounted for to the Treasury by him. Ord-
nance stores, Indian goods, and all contingent supplies, will be
procured by an agent who will be constituted for the purpose,
with an allowance of eight hundred dollars a year in lieu of com-
mission. Accounts for his purchases, in every case in which it
can conveniently be done (which will comprehend the greatest
number of cases), will be settled immediately with the Treasury,
and the money paid directly to the individuals. In other cases,
advances on account will be made to the agent, to be accounted
for directly to the Treasury.

A leading object of this arrangement is to exempt the officers,
both of the War and Treasury Departments, from the ill-natured
suspicions which are incident to the actual handling and dis-

244 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 35.

bursements of public money. None of the interior officers of
either department, except the Treasurer, will have any concern
with it.

The supplies of every kind will be delivered to the order of
the Department of War. The issuing of them and the accounting
for the issues (except as to provisions, which are directly issued
by the contractors to the troops, and which are proved to the
Treasury upon vouchers prescribed for the purpose) appertain to
the Department of War. The regulations which have been
adopted for the purpose, will no doubt be early reported to you
by the Secretary at War, as well as those which have been con-
certed with the Treasury respecting the paying and accounting
for the pay of the troops.

I beg leave to assure you, that, in the application of the gen-
eral arrangement which you have adopted respecting the execu-
tion of the act concerning distilled spirits, the greatest attention
will be paid to economy, as far as the precautions of the Treasury
can insure it.

I presume it to have been your intention that the opinion of
the Attorney-General should be taken, as to the power of the
President to appoint the supplementary officers contemplated
during the recess of the Senate ; which shall accordingly be done.

It affords me much satisfaction to observe that your mind has
anticipated the decision to enforce the law, in case a refractory
spirit should continue to render the ordinary and more desirable
means ineffectual. My most deliberate reflections have led me
to conclude, that the time for acting with decision is at hand ;
and it is with pleasure I can add, that an increasing acquies-
cence is likely to render this course the less difficult in the cases
in which an uncomplying temper may finally prevail.

I shall without delay execute your directions respecting the
officers of the cutters.

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 245

HAMILTON TO ADAMS.

Philadelphia, Aug. 16, 1792.

Dear Sir :

I have been duly favored with, your letter of the 4th instant.
A warrant for one thousand dollars in your favor has issued. If
any authorization from you had been sent to your son or any one
else, your signature on the warrant would have been unneces-
sary. But as it is, it will be indispensable. Perhaps, however,
the Treasurer may pay in expectation of it.

The question when the Vice-President entered on the duties
of his office is open at the Treasury ; though an opinion has ob-
tained that the taking of the oath was the criterion. This has
been founded on two considerations, — analogy to the case of the
President. The Constitution requires that he shall take an oath
before he enters upon the execution of his office. He cannot enter
upon the duties of it without entering upon the execution of it,
and he cannot legally do the latter till he has taken the oath
prescribed. The same injunction, however, is not laid upon the
Vice-President; and therefore, except by analogy, resort must
be had to the second consideration, namely, that the taking of
the oath of office is the legal act of acceptance, and may be sup-
posed to date the commencement of service.

But this reasoning, it must be confessed, is not conclusive ;
and therefore the opinion of the Attorney-General will be taken,
both as to the President and Vice-President, and I presume will
guide in the adjustment.

Twenty thousand dollars have been appropriated, and the
advances by anticipation may reach that limit.

You forgot that Mr. Clinton could feast upon what would
starve another. He will not, however, have an opportunity of
making the experiment ; and I hope the starvation policy will
not long continue fashionable.

Your confirmation of the good disposition of New England is
a source of satisfaction. I have a letter from a well-informed
friend in Virginia, who says, " All the persons I converse with

246 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 35.

are prosperous and happy, and yet most of them, including the
friends of the government, appear to be much alarmed at a sup-
posed system of policy tending to subvert the republican govern-
ment of the country." Were ever men more ingenious to torment
themselves with phantoms ?

Adieu, my dear sir, and believe me always very respectfully
and affectionately, &c.

MOEKIS TO HAMILTON.

Paris, August 17th, 1792.

Dear Sir :

Mr. Short, just before he departed from this city, left with me
a memoir in Dutch, respecting the mint. I was to get it trans-
lated for you, but not having been able to find a person
acquainted with the Dutch and English languages, I have now
determined to send you the original, which you will find here
inclosed. I hope it may prove useful, and answer the end you
had in view. I have transmitted to Mr. Jefferson copies of my
correspondence with the Commissioners of the Treasury here,
respecting our debt. You seem to have supposed, that the in-
stalments due had been paid, and this may turn out to be the
case, when the account shall have been strictly examined, which
I shall take care of. Mr. Short left (as I presume he informed
you) this business unfinished, supposing that my powers would
be competent to it, which they are not ; and indeed I should be
glad to avoid all interference in pecuniary affairs, if possible ;
not on account of the labor, for you may lay as much of that on
me as you please, but I would avoid all occasions of slanderous
imputation.

I formerly recommended to Mr. Short the opening of a loan
at Antwerp, and it was attended with the best effects ; for the
capitalists of Amsterdam who had shortly before induced our
Commissioners to believe that money could not be obtained there
under five per cent., soon after let us have it at four. This I was

Mt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 247

sure would happen, for I had been in Holland, had studied the
character of the money-lending people, and made myself ac-
quainted with the manner of transacting business.

I am still of opinion that it is wise to multiply the scenes on
which to display our credit. Those who have lent money to a
nation, naturally incline to speak well of that nation, first to
justify the confidence they have placed, and next to increase the
value of the stock they possess. It may at first seem more eligi-
ble, because more convenient, to perform all our pecuniary ope-
rations at one place, and those who are interested in establishing
that doctrine, will find many plausible arguments in support of
their favorite theory, just as somebody (I believe it was Silas
Dean) endeavored to prove, that we had better buy teas and
nankins in London than in China. I remember the thing made
an impression on me at the time, as the India Company were
then buying at Dunkirk some teas, which had been shipped from
America.

To return from the digression, I apprehend that confining this
business to one spot, may, in the end, have a very unfavorable
influence both on our commerce and exchange, because the neces-
sity of remittances being known, and the period also, capitalists
can take their measures beforehand to give you the law, and if,
which God forbid, public events should compel us to make loans,
our creditors knowing our absolute dependence on them alone,
will impose whatever terms they please. I do not dwell on
these topics, because a word is sufficient to you.

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

Philadelphia, Aug. 18, 1792.

Sir :

I am happ}r to be able, at length, to send you answers to the
objections which were communicated in your letter of the 29th
of July.

248 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

They have unavoidably been drawn in haste, too much so, to
do perfect justice to the subject, and have been copied just as
they flowed from my heart and pen, without revision or correction.
You will observe, that here and there some severity appears. I
have not fortitude enough always to hear with calmness calum-
nies which necessarily include me, as a principal agent in the
measures censured, of the falsehood of which I have the most
unqualified consciousness. I trust I shall always be able to bear,
as I ought, imputations of errors of judgment ; but I acknow-
ledge that I cannot be entirely patient under charges, which
impeach the integrity of my public motives or conduct. I feel
that I merit them in no degree; and expressions of indignation
sometimes escape me, in spite of every effort to suppress them.
I rely on your goodness for the proper allowances.

With high respect and the most affectionate attachment, I
have the honor to be, sir, &c.

OBJECTIONS AND ANSWERS RESPECTING THE ADMINISTRATION

OF THE GOVERNMENT.

Objection 1. — The public debt is greater than we can possibly
pay before other causes of adding to it will occur ; and this has
been artificially created by adding together the ivhole amount of
the debtor and creditor sides of the accounts.

Answer. — The public debt was produced by the late war. It
is not the fault of the present government that it exists ; unless
it can be proved, that public morality and policy do not require
of a government an honest provision for its debts. Whether it
is greater than can be paid before new causes of adding to it will
occur, is a problem incapable of being solved, but by experience ;
and this would be the case if it were not one-fourth as much as
it is. If the policy of the country be prudent, cautious, and
neutral towards foreign nations, there is a rational probability
that war may be avoided long enough to wipe off the debt

iEi. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 249

The Dutch, in a situation not near so favorable for it as that of
the United States, have enjoyed intervals of peace longer than
with proper exertions would suffice for the purpose. The debt
of the United States, compared with its present and growing
abilities, is really a very light one. It is little more than
15,000,000 of pounds sterling — about the annual expenditure
of Great Britain.

But whether the public debt shall be extinguished or not,
within a moderate period, depends on the temper of the people.
If they are rendered dissatisfied by misrepresentations of the
measures of the government, the government will be deprived of
an efficient command of the resources of the community towards
extinguishing the debt. And thus those who clamor, are likely
to be the principal causes of protracting the existence of the
debt.

As to its having been artificially increased, this is desired ;
perhaps, indeed, the true reproach of the system which has been
adopted, is, that it has artificially diminished the debt, as will be
explained by and by.

The assertion that the debt has been increased, by adding to-
gether the whole amount of the debtor and creditor sides of the
account, not being easy to be understood, is not easy to be an-
swered; but an answer shall be attempted.

The thirteen States, in their joint capacity, owed a certain
sum. The same States, in their separate capacities, owed another
sum. These two sums constitute the aggregate of the public debt.
The public, in a political sense, compounded of the governments
of the Union and of the several States, was the debtor. The
individuals who hold the various evidences of debt were the
creditors. It would be nonsense to say, that the combining of
the two parts of the public debt is adding together the debtor and
creditor sides of the account. So great an absurdity cannot be
supposed to be intended by the objection. Another meaning
must therefore be sought for.

It may possibly exist in the following misconception. The
States, individually, when they liquidated the accounts of indi-
viduals for services and supplies towards the common defence,

250 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

during the late war, and gave certificates for the sums due, would
naturally charge them to the United States as contributions to
the common cause. The United States, in assuming to pay those
certificates, charge themselves with them. And it may be sup-
posed that here is a double charge for the same thing.

But as the amount of the sum assumed for each State, is by
the system adopted to be charged to such State, it of course goes
in extinguishment of so much of the first charge as is equal to
the sum assumed, and leaves the United States chargeable only
once, as ought to be the case.

Or perhaps the meaning of the objection may be found in the
following mode of reasoning. Some States, from having dispro-
portionately contributed during the war, would probably on a
settlement of accounts be found debtors, independently of the
assumption. The assuming of the debts of such States increases
the balances against them ; and as these balances will ultimately
be remitted, from the impracticability of enforcing their payment,
the sum assumed will be an extra charge upon the United States,
increasing the mass of the debt.

This objection takes it for granted, that the balances of the
debtor States will not be exacted ; which, by the way, is no part
of the system, and if it should eventually not prove true, the
foundation of the reasoning would fail. For it is evident, if the
balances are to be collected, (unless there be some undiscovered
error in the principle by which the accounts are to be adjusted,)
that one side of the account will counterpoise the other. And
every thing as to the quantum of debt will remain in statu quo.

But it shall be taken for granted, that the balances will be
remitted ; and still the consequence alleged does not result. The
reverse of it may even take place. In reasoning upon this point,
it must be remembered that impracticability would be alike an
obstacle to the collection of balances, without as with the as-
sumption.

This being the case, whether the balances to be remitted will
be increased or diminished must depend on the relative propor-
tions of outstanding debts. If a former debtor State owes to in-
dividuals a smaller sum, in proportion to its contributive faculty,

Mt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 251

than a former creditor State, the assumption of the debts of both
to be provided for out of a common fund raised upon them pro-
portionally, must necessarily, on the idea of a remission of bal-
ances, tend to restore equality between them, and lessen the
balance of the debtor State to be remitted.

How the thing may work upon the whole, cannot be pro-
nounced without a knowledge of the situation of the account of
each State ; but all circumstances that are known, render it
probable that the ultimate effect will be favorable to justice be-
tween the States, and that there will be inconsiderable balances
either on one side or on the other.

It was observed, that perhaps the true reproach of the sys-
tem which has been adopted is, that it has artificially decreased
the debt. This is explained thus :

In the case of the debt of the United States, interest upon
two-thirds of the principal only, at 6 per cent., is immediately
paid; interest upon the remaining third was deferred for ten
years, and only three per cent, has been allowed upon the
arrears of interest, making one- third of the whole debt.

In the case of the separate debts of the States, interest upon
four-ninths only of the entire sum is immediately paid ; interest
upon two-ninths was deferred for ten years, and only three per
cent, allowed on three-ninths.

The market rate of interest at the time of adopting the fund-
ing system, was 6 per cent. Computing, according to this rate
of interest, the then present value of 100 dollars of debt, upon
an average, principal and interest, was about 73 dollars.

And the present actual value, in the market, of 100 dollars,
as the several kinds of stock are sold, is no more than 83 dol-
lars and 61 cents. This computation is not made on equal sums
of the several kinds of stock, according to which the average
value of 100 dollars would be only 78 dollars and 75 cents ; but
it is made on the proportions which constitute the mass of the
debt.

At 73 to 100, the diminution on 60,000,000 is 16,200,000
dollars ; at 83 dollars and 61 cents to 100, it is 9,831,000 dollars.

But as the United States, having a right to redeem in cer-

252 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JBr. 38-

tain proportions, need never give more than par for the 6 per
cents., the diminution to them, as purchasers at the present
market prices, is 12,168,000 dollars.

If it be said that the United States are engaged to pay the
whole sum, at the nominal value, the answer is, that they are
always at liberty, if they have the means, to purchase at the
market prices ; and in all those purchases they gain the differ-
ence between the nominal sums and the lesser market rates.

If the whole debt had been provided for at 6 per cent., the
market rate of interest when the funding system passed, the
market value throughout would undoubtedly have been 100 for
100= The debt may then rather be said to have been artificially
decreased by the nature of the provision.

The conclusion from the whole is that, assuming it as a prin-
ciple that the public debts of the different descriptions were
honestly to be provided for and paid, it is the reverse of true
that there has been an artificial increase of them. To argue on
a different principle, is to presuppose dishonesty, and make it
an objection to doing right.

Objection 2. — This accumulation of debt has taken for ever
out of our power those easy resources of revenue which, applied
to the ordinary necessities and exigencies of government, would
have animated them habitually, and covered us from habitual
murmurings against taxes and tax-gatherers — reserving extraor-
dinary calls for extraordinary occasions, would animate the
people to meet them.

Answer. — There having been no accumulation of debt, if
what is here pretended to have been the consequence were true,
it would only be to be regretted as the unavoidable consequence
of an unfortunate state of things. But the supposed consequence
does by no means exist. The only sources of taxation which
have been touched are imported articles, and the single internal
object of distilled spirits; lands, houses, the great mass of per-
sonal as well as the whole of real property, remain essentially
free.

In short, the chief sources of taxation are free for extraordi-

Mt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 253

nary conjunctures, and it is one of the distinguishing merits of
the system which has been adopted, that it has rendered this far
more the case than it was before. It is only to look into the
different States to be convinced of it. In most of them, real
estate is wholly exempted. In some, very small burdens rest
upon it for the purpose of the internal governments. In all, the
burdens of the people have been lightened. It is a mockery of
truth to represent the United States as a community burdened
and exhausted by taxes.

Objection 3. — That the calls for money have been no
greater than we must generally expect, for the same or equiva-
lent exigencies ; yet we are already obliged to strain the impost
till it produces clamor, and will produce evasion, and war on
our citizens to collect it, and even to resort to an excise law, of
odious character with the people, partial in its operation, unpro-
ductive unless enforced by arbitrary and vexatious means, and
committing the authority of the government, in parts where re-
sistance is most probable and coercion least practicable.

Answer. — This is mere painting and exaggeration. With
the exception of a very few articles, the duties on imports are still
moderate — lower than in any other country of whose regulations
we have knowledge, except, perhaps, Holland, where, having
few productions or commodities of their own, their export trade
depends on the exportation of foreign articles.

It is true the merchants have complained ; but so they did of
the first impost law, for a time ; and so men always will do at an
augmentation of taxes which touch the business they carry on,
especially in a country where no, or scarcely any, such taxes be-
fore existed. The collection, it is not doubted, will be essentially
secure. Evasions have existed, in a degree, and will continue
to exist. Perhaps they may be somewhat increased, to what
extent can only be determined by experience ; but there are no
symptoms to induce an opinion that they will materially increase.
As to the idea of a war upon the citizens to collect the impost
duties, it can only be regarded as a figure of rhetoric.

The excise law, no doubt, is a good topic of declamation ;

254 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

but can it be doubted that it is an excellent and a very fit mean
of revenue ?

As to the partiality of its operation, it is no more so than any
other tax on a consumable commodity, adjusting itself upon ex-
actly the same principles. The consumer, in the main, pays the
tax ; and if some parts of the United States consume more do-
mestic spirits, others consume more foreign, and both are taxed.
There is perhaps, upon the whole, no article of more general and
equal consumption than distilled spirits.

As to its unproductiveness, unless enforced by arbitrary and
vexatious means, facts testify the contrary. Already, under all
the obstacles arising from its novelty and the prejudices against
it in some States, it has been considerably productive ; and it is
not enforced by any arbitrary or vexatious means ; at least, the
precautions in the existing laws for the collection of the tax will
not appear in that light but to men who regard all taxes, and all
the means of enforcing them, as arbitrary and vexatious.

Here, however, there is abundant room for fancy to operate.
The standard is in the mind, and different minds will have
different standards.

The observation relating to the commitment of the authority
of the government, in parts where assistance is most probable
and coercion least practicable, has more weight than any other
part of this objection. It must be confessed that a hazard of this
nature has been run ; but if there were motives sufficiently co-
gent for it, it was wisely run. It does not follow that a measure
is bad because it is attended with a degree of danger.

The general inducements to a provision for the public debt,
are:

1. To preserve the public faith and integrity, by fulfilling, as
far as was practicable, the public engagements.

2. To manifest a due respect for property, by satisfying the
public obligations in the hands of the public creditors, and which
were as much their property as their houses or their lands, their
hats or their coats.

3. To revive and establish public credit, the palladium of
public safety.

;Et. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 255

4. To preserve the government itself, by showing it worthy
of the confidence which was placed in it ; to procure to the com-
munity the blessings which in innumerable ways attend confi-
dence in the government, and to avoid the evils which in as
many ways attend the want of confidence in it.

The particular inducements to an assumption of the State
debts, were:

1. To consolidate the finances of the country, and give an
assurance of permanent order in them ; avoiding the collision of
thirteen, different and independent systems of finance under con-
current and coequal authorities, and the scrambling^ for revenue
which would have been incident to so many different systems.

2. To secure to the government of the Union, by avoiding
those entanglements, an effectual command of the resources of
the Union for present and future exigencies.

3. To equalize the condition of the citizens of the several States
in the important article of taxation ; rescuing a part of them from
being oppressed with burdens beyond their strength, on account
of extraordinary exertions in the war, and through the want of
certain adventitious resources which it was the good fortune of
others to possess.

A mind naturally attached to order and system, and capable
of appreciating their immense value, unless misled by particular
feelings, is struck at once with the prodigious advantages which
in the course of time must attend such a simplification of the
financial affairs of the country as results from placing all the
parts of the public debt upon one footing, under one direction,
regulated by one provision. The want of this sound policy has
been a continual source of disorder and embarrassment in the
affairs of the United Netherlands.

The true justice of the case of the public debt consists in that
equalization of the condition of the citizens of all the States which
must arise from a consolidation of the debt and common contri-
butions towards its extinguishment. Little inequalities as to the
past can bear no comparison with the more lasting inequalities
which, without the assumption, would have characterized the fu-
ture condition of the people of the United States, leaving upon

256 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35

those who had done most, or suffered most, a great additional
weight of burden.

If the foregoing inducements to a provision for the public
debt (including an assumption of the State debts) were sufficiently
cogent, then the justification of the excise laws lies within a nar-
row compass. Some further source of revenue, besides the
duties on imports, was indispensable, and none equally pro-
ductive would have been so little exceptionable to the mass of
the people.

Other reasons co-operated in the minds of some able men to
render an excise at an early period desirable. They thought it
well to lay hold of so valuable a resource of revenue before it
was generally preoccupied by the State governments. They
supposed it not amiss that the authority of the national govern-
ment should be visible in some branch of internal revenue, lest a
total non-exercise of it should beget an impression that it was
never to be exercised, and next, that it ought not to be exer-
cised. It was supposed, too, that a thing of the kind could not
be introduced with a greater prospect of easy success than at a
period when the government enjoyed the advantage of first im-
pressions, when State factions to resist its authority were not yet
matured, when so much aid was to be derived from the popu-
larity and firmness of the actual Chief Magistrate.

Facts hitherto do not indicate the measure to have been rash
or ill advised. The law is in operation with perfect acquiescence
in all the States north of New- York, though they contribute
most largely. In New- York and New Jersej" it is in full opera-
tion, with some very partial complainings fast wearing away.
In the greater part of Pennsylvania it is in operation, and with
increasing good humor towards it. The four western counties
continue exceptions. In Delaware it has had some struggle,
which, by the last accounts, was surmounted. In Maryland and
Virginia it is in operation, and without material conflict. In
South Carolina it is now in pretty full operation, though in the
interior parts it has had some serious opposition to overcome. In
Georgia no material difficulty has been experienced. North
Carolina, Kentucky, and the four western counties of Pennsyl-

^t. 35.]' CABINET PAPERS. 257

vania, present the only remaining impediments of any conse-
quence to the full execution of the law. The latest advices from
North Carolina and Kentucky, were more favorable than the
former.

It may be added as a well established fact, that the effect of
the law has been to encourage new enterprises in most of the
States in the business of domestic distillation. A proof that it
is perceived to operate favorably to the manufacture, and that
the measure cannot long remain unpopular any where.

Objection 4. — Propositions have been made in Congress^
and projects are on foot still to increase the mass of the debt.

Answer. — Propositions have been made, and no doubt will be
renewed by the States interested, to complete the assumption of
the State debts. This would add in the first instance to the mass
of the debt of the United States between three and four millions of
dollars, but it would not increase the mass of the public debt at
all. It would only transfer from particular States to the Union
debts which already exist, and which, if the States indebted are
honest, must be provided for. It happens that Massachusetts
and South Carolina would be chiefly benefited. And there is a
moral certainty that Massachusetts will have a balance in her
favor more than equal to her remaining debt, and a probability
that South Carolina will have a balance sufficient to cover hers.
So that there is not likely to be an eventual increase even of the
debt of the United States by the further assumption. The im-
mense exertions of Massachusetts during the late war, and par-
ticularly in the late periods of it when too many of the States
failed in their federal duty, are known to every well informed
man. It would not be too strong to say, that they were in a
great degree the pivot of the revolution. The exertions, suffer-
ings, sacrifices, and losses of South Carolina, need not be insisted
upon.

The other States have comparatively none or inconsiderable

debts. Can that policy be condemned which aims at putting

the burdened States upon an equal footing with the rest ? Can

that policy be very liberal which resists so equitable an arrange-

d 17

258 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

merit? It has been said that if they had exerted themselves
since the peace, their situation would have been different. But
Massachusetts threw her citizens into rebellion by heavier taxes
than were paid in any other State, and South Carolina has done
as much since the peace as could have been expected, consider-
ing the exhausted state in which the war left her.

The only proposition during the last session, or at any antece-
dent one, which would truly have swelled the debt artificially,
was one which Mr. Madison made in the first session, and which
was renewed in the last, and generally voted for by those who
opposed the system that has prevailed. The object of this pro-
position was, that all the parts of the State debts which have
been paid, or otherwise absorbed by them, should be assumed
for the benefit of the States and funded by the United States.
This measure, if it had succeeded, would truly have produced an
immense artificial increase of the debt, but it has twice failed,
and there is no probability that it will ever succeed.

Objection 5. — They say that by borrowing at two-thirds of
the interest, we might have paid off the principal in two-thirds
of the time, but that from this we are precluded by its being
made irredeemable but in small portions and long terms.

Answer. — First. All the foreign loans which were made by
the United States prior to the present government, taking into
the calculation charges and premiums, cost them more than six
per cent. Since the establishment of the present government,
they borrowed first at about five and a quarter, including charges,
and since, at about four and a quarter, including charges. And
it is questionable, in the present state of Europe, whether they
can obtain any further loans at so low a rate.

The system which is reprobated is the very cause that we have
been able to borrow on so good terms. If one that would have
inspired less confidence, certainly if the substitutes which have
been proposed, from a certain quarter, had obtained, we could
not have procured loans even at six per cent. The Dutch were
largely adventurers in our domestic debt before the present gov-
ernment. They did not embark far till they had made inquiries

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 259

of influential public characters, as to the light in which the debt
was and would be considered in the hands of alienees — and had
received assurance that assignees would be regarded in the same
light as original holders. What would have been the state of
our credit with them, if they had been disappointed, or indeed if
our conduct had been in any respect inconsistent with the notions
entertained in Europe concerning the maxims of public credit ?

The inference is, that our being able to borrow on low terms
is a consequence of the system, which is the object of censure,
and that the thing itself, which is made the basis of another sys-
tem, would not have existed under it.

Secondly. It will not be pretended that we could have bor-
rowed at the proposed low rate of interest in the United States ;
and all our exertions to borrow in Europe, which have been
unremitted, as occasions presented, have not hitherto produced

above dollars, not even a sufficient sum to change the

form of our foreign debt.

Thirdly. If it were possible to borrow the whole sum abroad
within a short period, to pay off our debt, it is not easy to ima-
gine a more pernicious operation than this would have been. It
would first have transferred to foreigners, by a violent expedient,
the whole amount of our debt ; and creating a money plethora in
the country, a momentary scene of extravagance would have
followed, and the excess would quickly have flowed back ; — the
evils of which situation need not be enlarged upon.

If it be said that the operation might have been gradual,
then the end proposed would not have been attained.

Lastly. The plan which has been adopted secures, in the first
instance, the identical advantage which in the other plan would
have been eventual and contingent. It puts one-third of the whole
debt at an interest of three per cent, only, and by deferring the
payment of interest on a third of the remainder, effectually re-
duces the interest on that part. It is evident that a suspension of
interest is in fact a reduction of interest. The money which
would go towards paying interest in the interval of suspension is
an accumulating fund, to be applied towards payment of it when
it becomes due, reducing the provision then to be made.

260 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

In reality, on the principles of the funding system, the United
States reduced the interest on their whole debt, upon an average,
to about four and a half per cent., nearly the lowest rate they
have any chance to borrow at, and lower than they could possi-
bly have borrowed at in an attempt to reduce the interest on the
whole capital by borrowing and paying, probably by one per cent.
A demand for large loans, by forcing the market, would una-
voidably have raised their price upon the borrower. The above
average of four and a haljEper ce^t.as found by calculation, com-
puting the then present value of the deferred stock at the time of
passing the funding acts, and of course three per cent, on the
three per cent, stock.

The funding system, then, secured in the very outset the pre-
cise advantage which it is alleged would have accrued from having
the whole debt redeemable at pleasure. But this is not all. It
did more. It left the government still in a condition to enjoy
upon five-ninths of the entire debt the advantage of extinguish-
ing it, by loans at a low rate of interest, if they are obtainable.
The three per cents, which are one-third of the whole, may
always be purchased in the market below par, till the market
rate of interest falls to three per cent. The deferred will be pur-
chasable below par, till near the period of the actual payment of
interest. And this further advantage will result: in all those
purchases the public will enjoy, not only the advantage of a re-
duction of interest on the sums borrowed, but the additional ad-
vantage of purchasing the debt under par, that is, for less than
twenty shillings in the pound.

If it be said that the like advantage might have been enjoyed
under another system, the assertion would be without foundation.
Unless some equivalent had been given for the reduction of in-
terest in the irredeemable quality annexed to the debt, nothing
was left, consistently with the principles of public credit, but to
provide for the whole debt at six per cent. This evidently would
have kept the whole at par, and no advantage could have been
derived by purchases under the nominal value. The reduction
of interest, by borrowing at a lower rate, is all that would have
been practicable, and this advantage has been secured by the

jEt.35.] cabinet papers. 261

funding system in the very outset, and without any second
process.

If no provision for the interest had been made, not only pub-
lic credit would have been sacrificed, but by means of it the bor-
rowing at a low rate of interest, or at any rate, would have been
impracticable.

There is no reproach which has been thrown upon the fund-
ing system so unmerited as that which charges it with being a
bad bargain for the public, or with a tendency to prolong the
extinguishment of the debts. The bargain has, if any thing,
been too good on the side of the public ; and it is impossible for
the debt to be in a more convenient form than it is for a rapid
extinguishment.

Some gentlemen seem to forget that the faculties of every
country are limited. They talk as if the government could ex-
tend its revenue ad libitum to pay off the debt. Whereas every
rational calculation of the abilities of the country will prove, that
the power of redemption which has been reserved over the debt
is quite equal to those abilities, and that a greater power would
be useless. If happily the abilities of the country should exceed
this estimate, there is nothing to hinder the surplus being em-
ployed in purchases. As long as the three per cents and deferred
exist, those purchases will be under par. If for the stock bear-
ing an immediate interest of six per cent., more than par is given,
the government can afford it from the saving made in the first
instance.

Upon the whole, then, it is the merit of the funding system
to have conciliated these three important points — the restoration
of public credit, a reduction of the rate of interest, and an
organization of the debt convenient for speedy extinguish-
ment

Objection 6. — That this irredeemable quality was given
to the debt for the avowed purpose of inviting its transfer to
foreign countries.

This assertion is a palpable misrepresentation. The avowed
purpose of that quality of the debt, as explained in the report of

262 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

the Secretary of the Treasury, and in the arguments in Congress,
was to give an equivalent for the reduction of interest, that is for
deferring the payment of interest on one-third of the principal
for three years, and for allowing only three per cent, on the ar-
rears of interest.

It was indeed argued, in confirmation of the reality of the
equivalent, that foreigners would be willing to give more where
a high rate of interest was fixed, than where it was liable to
fluctuate with the market. And this has been verified by the
fact — for the six per cents, could not have risen for a moment above
par, if the rate could have been lowered by redeeming the
debt at pleasure. But the inviting of the transfer to foreigners
was never assigned as a motive to the arrangement,

And what is more, that transfer will be probably slower with
the portion of irredeemability which is attached to the debt than
without it, because a larger capital would be requisite to purchase
100 dollars in the former than in the latter case. And the
capital of foreigners is limited as well as our own.

It appears to be taken for granted, that if the debt had
not been funded in its present shape, foreigners would not
have purchased it as they now do ; than which nothing can be
more ill-founded or more contrary to experience. Under the old
Confederation, when there was no provision at all, foreigners had
purchased five or six millions of the debt. If any provision had
been made, capable of producing confidence, their purchases
would have gone on just as they now do ; and the only material
difference would have been that what they got from us then
would have cost them less than what they now get from us does
cost them. Whether it is to the disadvantage of the country
that they pay more, is submitted.

Even a provision which should not have inspired full confi-
dence would not have prevented foreign purchases. The com-
modity would have been cheap in proportion to the risks to be
run. And full-handed Dutchmen would not have scrupled to
amass large sums for trifling considerations, in the hope that time
and experience would introduce juster notions into the public
councils,

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 263

Our debt would still have gone from us, and with it our
reputation and credit.

Objection 7. — They predict that this transfer of the principal,
when completed, will occasion an exportation of three millions
of dollars annually for the interest ; a drain of coin, of which, as
there has been no example, no calculation can be made of its
consequences.

Answer. — The same gloomy forebodings were heard in Eng-
land in the early periods of its funding system. But they have
never been realized. The money invested by foreigners in the
purchase of its debt, being employed in its commerce, agricul-
ture and manufactures, increased the capital and wealth of the
nation more than in proportion to the annual drain for the pay-
ment of interest, and created the ability to bear it.

The objection seems to forget that the debt is not transferred
for nothing ; that the capital paid for the debt is always an
equivalent for the interest to be paid to the purchaser. If that
capital is well employed in a young country like this, it must be
considerably increased, so as to }Tield a greater revenue than the
interest of the money. The country therefore will be a gainer
by it, and will be able to pay the interest without inconvenience.

But the objectors suppose that all the money which comes in
goes out again, in an increased consumption of foreign luxuries.
This, however, is taking for granted what never happened in any
industrious country, and what appearances among us do not war-
rant. The expense of living, generally speaking, is not sensibly
increased. Large investments are every day making in ship-
building, house-building, manufactures, and other improvements,
public and private.

The transfer, too, of the whole debt, is a very improbable
supposition ; a large part of it will continue to be owned by our
own citizens. And the interest of that part which is owned by
foreigners will not be annually exported, as is supposed. A
considerable part will be invested in new speculations — in lands,
canals, roads, manufactures, commerce. Facts warrant this
supposition. The agents of the Dutch have actually made large
investments in a variety of such speculations.

264 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

A young country like this is peculiarly attractive. New
objects will be continually opening, and the money of foreigners
will be made instrumental to their advancement.

Objection 8. — That the banishment of our coin will be com-
pleted by the creation of ten millions of paper money, in the
form of bank bills, now issuing into circulation.

Answer. — This is a mere hypothesis, in which theorists dif-
fer. There are no decisive facts on which to rest the question.

The supposed tendency of bank paper to banish specie is
from its capacity of serving as a substitute for it in circulation.
But as the quantity circulated is proportioned to the demand for
it in circulation, the presumption is that a greater quantity of
industry is put in motion by it, so as to call for a proportionally
greater quantity of circulating medium and prevent the banish-
ment of the specie. But however this may be, it is agreed among
sound theorists, that banks more than compensate for the loss of
the specie in other ways. Smith, who was witness to their effects
in Scotland, where too a very adverse fortune attended some of
them, bears his testimony to their beneficial effects in these
strong terms {Wealth of Nations ) Yol. I. Book II. Chap. 11, pages
441 to 444).

Objection 9. — They think the ten or twelve per cent, annual
profit paid to the lenders of this paper medium are taken out of
the pockets of the people, who would have had without interest
the coin it is banishing.

Answer. — 1. The profits of the bank have not hitherto ex-
ceeded the rate of eight per cent, per annum, and perhaps never
may. It is questionable whether they can legally make more
than ten per cent.

2. These profits can in no just sense be said to be taken out
of the pockets of the people. They are compounded of two
things — the interest paid by the government on that part of the
public debt which is incorporated in the stock of the bank ; 2d,
the interest paid by those individuals who borrow money of the
bank on the sums they borrow.

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 265

As to the first, it is no new grant to the bank. It is the old
interest on a part of the old debt of this country, substituted by
the proprietors of that debt towards constitututing the stock of
the bank. It would have been equally payable if the bank had
never existed. It is, therefore, nothing new taken out of the
pockets of the people.

As to the second, it may with equal propriety be said, when
one individual borrows money of another, that the interest which
the borrower pays to the lender is taken out of the pockets of the
people. The case here is not only parallel, but the same. It is
the case of one or more individuals borrowing money of a com-
pany of individuals associated to lend. None but the actual
borrowers pay in either case ; the rest of the community have
nothing to do with it.

If a man receives a bank bill for the ox or the bushel of
wheat which he sells, he pays no more interest upon it than upon
the same sum in gold or silver, that is, he pays none at all.

So that, whether the paper banishes specie or not, it is the
same thing to every individual through whose hands it circulates,
as to the point of interest. Specie no more than bank paper can
be borrowed without paying interest for it ; and when either is
not borrowed, no interest is paid. As far as the government is
a sharer in the profits of the bank, which is in the proportion of
one-fifth, the contrary of what is supposed happens : money is
put into the pockets of the people.

All this is so plain and so palpable, that the assertion which is
made betrays extreme ignorance or extreme disingenuousness.
It is destitute even of color.

Objection 10. — That all the capital employed in paper
speculations is barren and useless, producing, like that on a
gaming-table, no accession to itself, and is withdrawn from com-
merce and agriculture, where it would have produced addition
to the common mass.

This is a copious subject, which has been fully discussed in
the Eeport of the Secretary of the Treasury, on the subject of
manufactures, from page to page . It is true that the

266 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

capital — that is, the specie which is employed in paper specula-
tion— while so employed is barren and useless, but the paper
itself constitutes a new capital, which, being saleable and trans-
ferable at any moment, enables the proprietor to undertake any
piece of business as well as an equal sum in coin ; and as the
amount of the debt circulated is much greater than the amount
of the specie which circulates it, the new capital put in motion
by it considerably exceeds the old one, which is* suspended, and
there is more capital to carry on the productive labor of the so-
ciety. Every thing that has value is capital — an acre of ground,
a horse, or a cow, or a public or private obligation, which may,
with different degrees of convenience, be applied to industrious
enterprise. That which, like public stock, can at any instant be
turned into money, is of equal utility with money as capital.
Let it be examined, whether at those places where there is most
debt afloat, and most money employed in its circulation, there is
not at the same time a greater plenty of money for every other
purpose. It will be found that there is.

But it is in fact quite immaterial to the government, as far as
regards the propriety of its measures.

The debt existed ; it was to be provided for. In whatever
shape the provision was made, the object of speculation and the
speculation would have existed. Nothing but abolishing the
debt could have obviated it. It is, therefore, the fault of the
Eevolution, not of the government, that paper speculation exists.
An unsound or precarious provision would have increased this
species of speculation in its most odious forms ; the defects and
casualties of the system would have been as much subjects of
speculation as the debt itself.

The difference is, that under a bad system the public stock
would have been too uncertain an article to be a substitute for
money, and all the money emploj^ed in it would have been di-
verted from useful employment, without any thing to compen-
sate for it. Under a good system, the stock becomes more than
a substitute for the money employed in negotiating it.

Objection 11. — Paper Speculations. That it nourishes in our
citizens vice and idleness, instead of industry and morality.

iET. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 267

Answer. — This proposition, within certain limits, is true.
Jobbing in the funds has some bad effects among those engaged
in it. It fosters a spirit of gambling, and diverts a certain num-
ber of individuals from other pursuits. But if the proposition be
true, that stock operates as capital, the effect upon the citizens at
large is different. It promotes among them industry, by furnish-
ing a larger field of employment. Though this effect of a funded
debt has been called in question in England by some theorists,
yet most theorists and all practical men allow its existence. And
there is no doubt, as already intimated, that if we look into those
scenes among ourselves where the largest portions of the debt
are accumulated, we shall perceive that a new spring has been
given to industry in various branches.

But, be all this as it may, the observation made under the
last head applies here. The debt was the creature of the Bevo-
lution. It was to be provided for. Being so, in whatever form,
it must have become an object of speculation and jobbing.

Objection 12. — The funding of the debt has furnished
effectual means of corrupting such a portion of the legisla-
ture as turns the balance between the honest voters whichever
way it is directed.

Answer. — This is one of those assertions which can only be
denied, and pronounced to be malignant and false. No facts ex-
ist to support it, and being a mere matter of fact, no argument
can be brought to repel it.

The assertors beg the question. They assume to them-
selves, and to those who think with them, infallibility. Take
their words for it, they are the only honest men in the commu-
nity. But compare the tenor of men's lives, and at least as large
a portion of virtuous and independent characters will be found
among those whom they malign as among themselves.

A member of a majority of the legislature would say to these
defamers, " In your vocabulary, gentlemen, Creditor and Enemy
appear to be synonymous terms; the support of public credit,
and corruption, of similar import — an enlarged and liberal con-
struction of the Constitution, for the public good and for the

268 HAMILTON'S WORKS. (\Et. 35.

maintenance of the due energy of the national authority, of the
same meaning with usurpation and a conspiracy to overturn
the republican government of the country — every man of a dif-
ferent opinion from your own, an ambitious despot or a corrupt
knave. You bring every thing to the standard of your narrow
and depraved ideas, and you condemn without mercy or even
decency whatever does not accord with it. Every man who is either
too short or too long for your political couch, must be stretched or
lopped to suit it. But your pretensions must be rejected ; your
insinuations despised. Your politics originate in immorality,
in a disregard of the maxims of good faith and the rights of
property, and if they could prevail, must end in national disgrace
and confusion. Your rules of construction for the authorities,
vested in the government of the Union, would arrest all its essen-
tial movements, and bring it back in practice to the same state of
imbecility which rendered the old confederation contemptible.
Your principles of liberty are principles of licentiousness incom-
patible with all government. You sacrifice every thing that is
venerable and substantial in society to the vain reveries of a
false and new-fangled philosophy. As to the motives by which
I have been influenced, I leave my general conduct in private
and public life to speak for them. — Go and learn among my
fellow-citizens whether I have not uniformly maintained the
character of an honest man. As to the love of liberty and
country, you have given no stronger proofs of being actuated by
it than I have done — cease, then, to arrogate to yourself and to
your party all the patriotism and virtue of the country. Ee-
nounce, if you can, the intolerant spirit by which you are
governed, and begin to reform yourself, instead of reprobating
others, by beginning to doubt of your own infallibility."

Such is the answer which would naturally be given by a
member of the majority of the legislature to such an objection.
And it is the only one that could be given, until some evidence
of the supposed corruption should be produced.

As far as I know there is not a member of the legislature
who can properly be called a stock-jobber or a paper-dealer.
There are several of them who were proprietors of public debt

JEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 269

in various ways; some for money lent and property furnished
for the use of the public during the war, others for sums received
in payment of debts, and it is supposable enough that some of
them had been purchasers of the public debt, with intention to
hold it as a valuable and convenient propert}^, considering an
honorable provision for it as a matter of course.

It is a strange perversion of ideas, and as novel as it is extra-
ordinary, that men should be deemed corrupt and criminal for
becoming proprietors in the funds of their country. Yet I
believe the number of members of Congress is very small who
have ever been considerable proprietors in the funds. As to
improper speculations on measures depending before Congress, I
believe never was any body of men freer from them.

There are, indeed, several members of Congress who have
become proprietors in the Bank of the United States, and a few
of them to a pretty large amount, say 50 or 60 shares. But all
operations of this kind were necessarily subsequent to the deter-
mination upon the measure ; the subscriptions were of course
subsequent, and purchases still more so. Can there be any thing
really blamable in this? Can it be culpable to invest pro-
perty in an institution which has been established for the most
important national purposes ? Can that property be supposed to
corrupt the holder ? It would indeed tend to render him friend-
ly to the preservation of the bank ; but in this, there would be
no collision between duty and interest, and it would give him no
improper bias on other questions.

To uphold public credit, and to be friendly to the bank, must
be presupposed to be corrupt things, before the being a proprie-
tor in the funds, or of bank stock, can be supposed to have a
corrupting influence. The being a proprietor, in either case, is a
very different thing from being, in a proper sense of the term, a
stock-jobber.

On this point of the corruption of the legislature, one more
observation of great weight remains. Those who oppose a funded
debt, and mean any provision for it, contemplate an annual one.

Now it is impossible to conceive a more fruitful source of le-
gislative corruption than this. All the members of it who should

270 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

incline to speculate, would have an annual opportunity of specu-
lating upon their influence in the legislature to promote or re-
tard, or put off a provision. Every session the question whether
the annual provision should be continued, would be an occasion
of pernicious caballing and corrupt bargaining. In this very
view, when the subject was in deliberation, it was impossible not
to wish it decided upon once for all, and out of the way.

Objection 13. — The corrupt squadron deciding the voice of
the legislature, have manifested their dispositions to get rid of
the limitations imposed by the Constitution on the general legis-
lature ; limitations, on the faith of which the States acceded to that
instrument.

Here again the objectors beg the question. They take it
for granted that the instructions of the Constitution are right, and
that the opposite ones are wrong ; and with great good nature
and candor ascribe the effect of a difference of opinion to a dispo-
sition to get rid of the limitations on the government.

Those who have advocated the constructions which have ob-
tained, have met their opponents on the ground of fair argument,
and they think have refuted them. How shall it be deter-
mined which side is right ?

There are some things which the general government has
clearly a right to do. There are others, which it has clearly no
right to meddle with ; and there is a good deal of middle ground,
about which honest and well-disposed men may differ. The
most that can be said is, that some of this middle ground may
have been occupied by the national legislature ; and this surely
is no evidence of a disposition to get rid of the limitations in the
Constitution, nor can it be viewed in that light by men of
candor.

The truth is, one description of men is disposed to do the es-
sential business of the nation, by a liberal construction of the
powers of the government; another, from disaffection, would
fritter away those powers ; a third, from an overweening jealousy,
would do the same thing ; a fourth, from party and personal op-
position, are torturing the Constitution into objections to every
thing they do not like.

jEt. 35.] cabinet papers. 271

The bank is one of the measures which is deemed by some
the greatest stretch of power, and yet its constitutionality has
been established in the most satisfactory manner.

And the most incorrigible theorist among its opponents
would, in one month's experience, as head of the department of
the Treasury, be compelled to acknowledge that it is an absolute-
ly indispensable engine in the management of the finances, and
would quickly become a convert to its perfect constitutionality.

Objection 14. — The ultimate object of all this is, to prepare
the way for a change from the present republican form of gov-
ernment to that of a monarchy, of which the British constitution
is to be the model.

To this there is no other answer than a flat denial, except
this : that the project, from its absurdity, refutes itself.

The idea of introducing a monarchy or aristocracy into this
country, by employing the influence and force of a govern-
ment continually changing hands, towards it, is one of those
visionary things that none but madmen could meditate, and that
no wise man will believe.

If it could be done at all, which is utterly incredible, it would
require a long series of time, certainly beyond the life of any in-
dividual, to effect it. "Who, then, would enter into such a plot ?
for what purpose of interest or ambition ?

To hope that the people may be cajoled into giving their
sanctions to such institutions is still more chimerical. A people
so enlightened and so diversified as the people of this country,
can surely never be brought to it, but from convulsions and dis-
orders, in consequence of the arts of popular demagogues.

The truth unquestionably is, that the only path to a sub-
version of the republican system of the country is, by flattering
the prejudices of the people, and exciting their jealousies and ap-
prehensions, to throw affairs into confusion, and bring on civil
commotion. Tired at length of anarchy or want of government,
they may take shelter in the arms of monarchy for repose and
security.

Those, then, who resist a confirmation of public order, are
the true artificers of monarchy. Not that this is the intention of

272 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

the generality of them. Yet it would not be difficult to lay the
finger upon some of their party who may justly be suspected.
When a man, unprincipled in private life, desperate in his for-
tune, bold in his temper, possessed of considerable talents, having
the advantage of military habits, despotic in his ordinary de-
meanor, known to have scoffed in private at the principles of
liberty; when such a man is seen to mount the hobby-horse of
popularity, to join in the cry of danger to liberty, to take every
opportunity of embarrassing the general government and bring-
ing it under suspicion, to flatter and fall in with all the nonsense
of the zealots of the day ; it may j ustly be suspected that his
object is to throw things into confusion, that he may " ride the
storm and direct the whirlwind."

It has aptly been observed, that Cato was the Tory, Ccesar the
Whig of his day. The former frequently resisted; the latter
always flattered the follies of the people. Yet the former per-
ished with the republic — the latter destroyed it.

No popular government was ever without its Catilines and
its Cassars : — these are its true enemies.

As far as I am informed, the anxiety of those who are calum-
niated is to keep the government in the state in which it is, which
they fear will be no easy task, from a natural tendency in the
state of things to exalt the local on the ruins of the national
government. Some of them appear to wish, in a constitutional
way, a change in the judiciary department of the government,
from an apprehension that an orderly and effectual administra-
tion of justice cannot be obtained without a more intimate con-
nection between the State and National tribunals. But even this
is not an object of any set of men as a party. There is a differ-
ence of opinion about it on various grounds, among those who
have generally acted together. As to any other charge of con-
sequence, I believe nobody dreams of it.

'Tis curious to observe the anticipations of the different par-
ties. One side appears to believe that there is a serious plot to
overturn the State governments, and substitute a monarchy to
the present republican system. The other side firmly believes
that there is a serious plot to overturn the general government,

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 273

and elevate the separate power of the States upon its ruins.
Both sides may be equally wrong, and their mutual jealousies
may be naturally causes of the appearances which mutually dis-
turb them and sharpen them against each other.

Objection 15. — This charge, that this was contemplated in
the Convention, they say is no secret, because its partisans have
made none of it — to effect it then was impracticable ; but they
are still eager after their object, and are predisposing every thing
for its ultimate attainment.

This is a palpable misrepresentation. No man that I know
of contemplated the introducing into this country a monarchy.
A very small number (not more than three or four) manifested
theoretical opinions favorable in the abstract to a Constitution
like that of Great Britain ; but every one agreed that such a
Constitution, except as to the general distribution of departments
and powers, was out of the question in reference to this country.
The member who was most explicit on this point (a member from
New- York) declared in strong terms, that the republican theory
ought to be adhered to in this country as long as there was any
chance of its success ; that the idea of a perfect equality of poli-
tical rights among the citizens, exclusive of all permanent or
hereditary distinctions, was of a nature to engage the good wishes
of every good man, whatever might be his theoretic doubts ; that
it merited his best efforts to give success to it in practice ; that
hitherto, from an incompetent structure of the government, it
had not had a fair trial, and that the endeavor ought then to be
to secure to it a better chance of success by a government more
capable of energy and order.

There is not a man at present in either branch of the legisla-
ture who, that I recollect, had held language in the Convention
favorable to monarchy.

The basis therefore of this suggestion fails.

Objection 16. — So many of them have got into the legisla-
ture, that, aided by the corrupt squadron of paper dealers, who
are at their devotion, they make a majority in both houses.

This has been answered above. Neither description of char-
d 18

274 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

acter is to be found in the legislature. In the Senate there are
nine or ten who were members of the Convention ; in the House
of Eepresentatives, not more than six or seven.* Of those who
are in the last-mentioned house, none can be considered as influ-
ential but Mr. Madison and Mr. Gerry. Are they monarchy
men?

As to the 17th, 18th, and 19th heads,

They are rather inferences from and comments upon what is
before suggested, than specific objections. The answer to them
must therefore be derived from what is said under other heads.

It is certainly much to be regretted that party discriminations
are so far geographical as they have been, and that ideas of a
severance of the Union are creeping in both North and South. In
the South, it is supposed that more government than is expedient
is desired by the North. In the North, it is believed that the
prejudices of the South are incompatible with the necessary de-
gree of government, and with the attainment of the essential
ends of national union. In both quarters there are respectable
men, who talk of separation as a thing dictated by the different
geniuses and different prejudices of the parts. But happily their
number is not considerable, and the prevailing sentiment of the
people is in favor of their true interest, union. And it is to be
hoped that the efforts of wise men will be able to prevent a
schism which would be injurious in different degrees to different
portions of the Union, but would seriously wound the prosperity
of all.

As to the sacrifice of Southern to Northern prejudices — if the
conflict has been between prejudices and prejudices, it is certainly
to be wished, for mutual gratification, that there had been mutual
concession ; but if the conflict has been between great and sub-
stantial national objects on the one hand, and theoretical preju-
dices on the other, it is difficult to desire that the former should
in any instance have yielded.

Objection 20. — The owners of the debt are in the Southern
and the holders of it in the Northern division.

* This computation is from memory.

i

jEt.35.] cabinet papers. 275

Answer. — If this were literally true, it would be no argu-
ment for or against any thing. It would be still politically and
morally right for the debtors to pay their creditors.

But it is in no sense true. The oioers of the debt are the peo-
ple of every State, South, Middle, and North. The holders are
the individual creditors — citizens of the United Netherlands,
Great Britain, France, and of these States, North, Middle, South.
Though some men, who constantly substitute hypothesis to fact,
imagination to evidence, assert and reassert that the inhabitants
of the South contribute more than those of the North, yet there is
no pretence that they contribute all; and even the assertion of
greater contribution is unsupported by documents, facts, or, it
may be added, probabilities. Though the inhabitants of the South
manufacture less than those of the North, which is the great ar-
gument, yet it does not follow that they consume more of taxable
articles. It is a solid answer to this, that whites live better, wear
more and better clothes, and consume more luxuries, than blacks,
who constitute so considerable a part of the population of the
South. That the inhabitants of cities and towns, which abound so
much more in the North than in the South, consume more of for-
eign articles than the inhabitants of the country. That it is a gen-
eral rule, that communities consume and contribute in proportion
to their active or circulating wealth, and that the Northern re-
gions have more active or circulating wealth than the Southern.

If official documents are consulted, though, for obvious rea-
sons, they are not decisive, they contradict rather than confirm
the Irypothesis of greater proportional contribution in the South-
ern division.

But, to make the allegation in the objection true, it is neces-
sary not merely that the inhabitants of the South should con-
tribute more, but that they should contribute all.

It must be confessed that a much larger proportion of the
debt is owned by inhabitants of the States from Pennsylvania to
New Hampshire inclusively, than in the States south of Pennsyl-
vania.

But as to the primitive debt of the United States, that was
the case in its original concoction. This arose from two causes ;

276 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

first, from the war having more constantly been carried on in the
Northern quarter, which led to obtaining more men and greater
supplies in that quarter, and credit having been for a considera-
ble time the main instrument of the government, a consequent
accumulation of debt in that quarter took place. Secondly, from
the greater ability of the Northern and Middle States to furnish
men, money, and other supplies, and from the greater quantities
of men, money, and other supplies which they did furnish. The
loan office debt, the army debt, the debt of the five great depart-
ments, was contracted in a much larger proportion in the North-
ern and Middle, than in the Southern States.

It must be confessed, too, that by the attraction of a superior
moneyed capital the disparity has increased, but it was great in
the beginning.

As to the assumed debt, the proportion in the South was at
the first somewhat larger than in the North, and it must be ac-
knowledged that this has since, from the same superiority of
moneyed capital in the North, ceased to be the case.

But if the Northern people who were originally greater
creditors than the Southern, have become still more so as pur-
chasers, is it any reason that an honorable provision should not
be made for their debt ? Or is the government to blame for
having made it ? Did the Northern people take their property
by violence from the Southern, or did they purchase and pay
for it ?

It may be answered that they obtained considerable part of
it by speculation, taking advantage of superior opportunities of
information.

But admitting this to be true in all the latitude in which it is
commonly stated, is a government to bend the general maxims
of policy and to mould its measures according to the accidental
course of private speculations ? Is it to do this, or omit that, in
cases of great national importance, because one set of individuals
may gain, another lose, from unequal opportunities of informa-
tion, from unequal degrees of resource, craft, confidence, or
enterprise ?

Moreover there is much exaggeration in stating the manner

At. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 277

of the alienation of the debt. The principal speculations in
State debt, whatever may be pretended, certainly began after the
promulgation of the plan for assuming by the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury to the House of Representatives.
The resources of individuals in this country are too limited to
have admitted of much progress in purchases before the know-
ledge of that plan was diffused throughout the country. After
that, purchasers and sellers were upon equal ground. If the
purchasers speculated upon the sellers, in many instances the
sellers speculated upon the purchasers. Each made his calcula-
tion of chances, and founded upon it an exchange of money for
certificates. It has turned out generally that the buyer had the
best of the bargain, but the seller got the value of his com-
modity according to his estimate of it, and probably in a great
number of instances more. This shall be explained.

It happened that Mr. Madison and some other distinguished
characters of the South started in opposition to the assumption.
The high opinion entertained of them, made it be taken for
granted in that quarter, that the opposition would be successful.
The securities quickly rose by means of purchases beyond
their former prices. It was imagined that they would soon
return to their old station by a rejection of the proposition for
assuming. And the certificate-holders were eager to part with
them at their current prices, calculating on a loss to the pur-
chasers from their future fall. This representation is not con-
jectural; it is founded on information from respectable and
intelligent Southern characters, and may be ascertained by
inquiry.

Hence it happened that the inhabitants of the Southern States
sustained a considerable loss by the opposition to the assumption
from Southern gentlemen, and their too great confidence in the
efficacy of that opposition.

Further, a great part of the debt which has been purchased
by Northern and Southern citizens, has been at higher prices —
in numerous instances beyond the true value. In the late de-
lirium of speculation, large sums were purchased at 25 per cent,
above par and upwards.

278 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 35.

The Southern people, upon the whole, have not parted with
their property for nothing. They parted with it voluntarily, in
most cases, upon fair terms, without surprise or deception — in
many cases for more than its value. 'Tis their own fault if the
purchase money has not been beneficial to them ; and the pre-
sumption is, it has been so in a material degree.

Let, then, any candid and upright mind, weighing all the cir-
cumstances, pronounce whether there be any real hardship in
the inhabitants of the South being required to contribute their
proportion to a provision for the debt as it now exists ? whether,
if at liberty, they could honestly dispute the doing of it? or
whether they can even, in candor and good faith, complain of
being obliged to do it?

If they can, it is time to unlearn all the ancient notions of
justice and morality, and to adopt a new system of ethics.

Objection 21. — That the antifederal champions are now
strengthened in argument by the fulfilment of their predictions,
which has been brought about by the monarchical federalists
themselves, who, having been for the new government merely as
a stepping-stone to monarchy, have themselves adopted the very
constructions of the Constitution, of which, when advocating the
acceptance before the tribunal of the people, they declared it in-
susceptible ; whilst the republican federalists, who espoused the
same government for its intrinsic merits, are disarmed of their
weapons, that which they denied as prophecy being now become
true history. Who, therefore, can be sure, they ask, that
these things may not proselyte the small number which was
wanting to place the majority on the other side? And this,
they add, is the event at which they tremble.

Answer. — All that can be said in answer to this, has been
already said. It is much to be wished that the true state of the
case may not have been, that the antifederal champions have
been encouraged in their activity by the countenance which has
been given to their principles by certain federalists who, in an
envious and ambitious struggle for power, influence, and pre.
eminence, have embraced as auxiliaries the numerous party

Mt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 279

originally disaffected to the government, in the hope that these,
united with the factious and feeble-minded federalists whom they
can detach, will give them the predominancy. This would be
nothing more than the old story of personal and party emu-
lation.

The antifederal champions alluded to may be taught to abate
their exultation, by being told that the great body of the federal-
ists, or rather the great body of the people, are of opinion, that
none of their predictions have been fulfilled ; that the beneficial
effects of the government have exceeded expectation, and are
witnessed by the general prosperity of the nation.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, August 16th, 1792.

Sir:

You will herewith receive a triplicate of my letter to you of
the 25th ultimo, and a duplicate of one of the 4th instant.

If the destination of the moneys arising from the last loan,
as mentioned in my former letter of the said 4th instant, has not
already put it out of your power, it would be my wish that you
reserve a sufficient sum for the purpose of discharging the debt
due to the foreign officers. The sum due, including arrears of
interest, down to the 31st of December, 1791, was 220,646 TVo
dollars ; to which will be to be added the further interest to the
time of payment.

I shall shortly suggest to you the particular mode to be pur-
sued in paying this debt.

280 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 22d August, 1792.

Sir:

This will merely inform you that your letter of the 10th,
with its inclosure, and that of the 11th instant, have been duly
received ; and that if the regulations of your department, men-
tioned in the former, are carried strictly into execution, the most
happy consequences, it is to be hoped, will result from them.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Mount Vernon, 26th August, 1792.

My Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 18th, including answers to certain objec-
tions communicated to you in my letter of the 29th ultimo,
came duly to hand ; and although I have not as yet, from a va-
riety of causes, been able to give them the attentive reading I
mean to bestow, I feel myself much obliged by the trouble
you have taken to answer them, as I persuade myself, from the
full manner in which you appear to have taken up the subject,
that I shall receive both satisfaction and profit from the pe-
rusal.

Differences in political opinions are as unavoidable, as, to a
certain point, they may perhaps be necessary, but it is exceed-
ingly to be regretted, that subjects cannot be discussed with tem-
per on the one hand, or decisions submitted to without having
the motives which led to them, improperly implicated on the
other ; and this regret borders on chagrin, when we find that

JEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 281

men of abilities, zealous patriots, having the same general objects
in view, and the same upright intentions to prosecute them, will
not exercise more charity in deciding on the opinions and ac-
tions of one another. When matters get to such lengths the
natural inference is, that both sides have strained the cords be-
yond their bearing, and that a middle course would be found
the best, until experience shall have decided on the right way, or
(which is not to be expected because it is denied to mortals) there
shall be some infallible rule by which we could forejudge events.
Having premised these things, I would fain hope that liberal al-
lowances will be made for the political opinions of each other ;
and instead of those wounding suspicions and irritating charges,
with which some of our gazettes are so strongly impregnated,
and which cannot fail, if persevered in, of pushing matters to ex-
tremity, and thereby tearing the machine asunder, that there
may be mutual forbearance and temporizing yielding on all sides.
Without these I do not see how the reins of government are go-
ing to be managed, or how the Union of the States can much
longer be preserved.

How unfortunate would it be if a fabric so goodly, erected
under so many providential circumstances, and in its first stages
having acquired such respectability, should, from diversity of
sentiments or internal obstructions to some of the acts of govern-
ment, (for I cannot prevail upon myself to believe that these
measures are as yet the deliberate acts of a determined party,)
be brought to the verge of dissolution. Melancholy thought !
But at the same time that it shows the consequences of diversi-
fied opinions, when pushed with too much tenacity, it exhibits
evidence also of the necessity of accommodation, and of the pro-
priety of adopting such healing measures as may restore harmony
to the discordant members of the Union, and the governing
powers of it.

I do not mean to apply this advice to any measures which are
passed, or to any particular character. I have given it in gene-
ral terms to other officers of the government. My earnest wish is,
that balsam may be poured into all the wounds which have been
given, to prevent them from gangrening, and from those fatal

282 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

consequences which the community may sustain if it is withheld.
The friends of the Union must wish this. Those who are not,
but wish to see it rent, will be disappointed, and all things I hope
will go well.

We have heard, through the medium of Mr. Harrison to Dr.
Craik, that you have some thoughts of taking a trip this way. I
felt pleasure at hearing it, and hope it is unnecessary to add, that
it would be considerably increased by seeing you under this roof,
for you may be assured of the sincere and affectionate regard of
yours, &c.

P. S. I pray you to note down whatever may occur to you,
not only in your own department, but other matters also of gene-
ral import, that may be fit subjects for the speech at the opening
of the ensuing session.

HAMILTON" TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, August 27th, 1792.

Sir:

By the act of the last session, entitled "An act supplement-
ary to the act making provision for the debt of the United
States," authority is given to discharge the debts due to foreign
officers, out of the moneys which the President is authorized to
borrow, by the act making provision for the debt of the United
States.

The sum authorized to be borrowed by the last mentioned
act, is 12,000,000 of dollars. The whole amount of the foreign
debt, exclusive of that due to foreign officers, was 11,710,378
dollars and 62 cents. The difference is 289,621 dollars and 38
cents, which is greater than the sum due to foreign officers, being
about 230,000 dollars. This debt being payable in Paris, and
bearing an interest of six per cent., it is for the advantage of the
United States to discharge it as soon as possible. The last loan

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 283

will be a convenient fund for the purpose, and if approved by
the President, a part of it will be so applied.

Should it appear to the President advisable to direct this pay-
ment, a second question arises, namely : whether it shall be made
in assign ats, or in a mode which shall exempt the parties from
the loss which would attend the depreciation of those securities,
without, however, occasioning loss to the United States ? The
last appears best to accord with the justice and reputation of the
government.

With the highest respect and the truest attachment, &c.

P. S. Your letter of the 13th instant, and the con-
tract concerning the New Hampshire light-house were duly re-
ceived.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.
Treasury Department, Philadelphia, Aug. 28, 1792.

Sir :

It has been represented to me by the accounting officers of
the Treasury, that a regular account of all the moneys which
have been received by you from our commissioners in Europe,
or which have been paid by them by your direction, would be
requisite in the examination and adjustment of the accounts of
the said commissioners.

I have therefore to request that you will furnish me with an
account comprising those objects, down to the 1st of November,
1792.

As the document called for will be considered as an essential
guide in the settlement which is contemplated, I shall make no
apology for troubling you on the occasion.

Your account, as secretary to the embassy in France, I un-
derstand, has been presented at the Treasury by Mr. Jefferson,
terminating on the 21th September, 1789 ; but none has been
rendered since.

284 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 31st Aug. 1792.

Sir:

The inclosed letter was written agreeably to the date, but by
an accident was omitted when my other letters were sent to the
post-office on Monday last ; since which, till yesterday afternoon,
I have been absent from home.

On my return, amongst other letters I found the inclosed
from the inspector of the fifth survey in the State of North
Carolina. The picture drawn by him of the temper of the peo-
ple in the district intrusted to his inspection, is a very unpleasant
and disagreeable one. It is forwarded for your consideration
and opinion of the measures necessary to be taken in the prem-
ises, particularly whether the Governor of that State ought to be
written to on the subject; and in that case, to desire that you
would draft a letter proper for the occasion.

Your letter of the 27th instant is also before me; and my
opinion on the points therein submitted is, that part of the loan
lately obtained in Holland should be applied in discharge of the
debt due to the foreign officers, agreeably to the act alluded to
in your letter, and because the interest of the United States re-
quires it to be done ; and that it ought to be paid in a mode
which shall exempt the parties from the loss which would attend
the depreciation of assignats, without however occasioning loss
to the United States. The former is an act of justice due to the
officers, and the latter an act of prudence becoming the govern-
ment.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department. September 1st. 1792.

Sir:

I have the honor to inclose sundry papers which have been
handed to me by the Commissioners of the Eevenue, respecting

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 285

the state of the excise law in the Western Survey of the District
of Pennsylvania.

Such persevering and violent opposition to the law gives the
business a still more serious aspect than it has hitherto worn, and
seems to call for vigorous and decisive measures on the part of
the government.

I have directed that the supervisor of the district shall repair
forthwith to the survey in question, to ascertain in person the
true state of the survey ; to collect evidences respecting the vio-
lences that have been committed, in order to a prosecution of the
offenders ; to ascertain particulars as to the meeting which ap-
pears to have been held at Pittsburg ; to encourage the perse-
verance of the officers ; giving expectations, as far as it can be
done with propriety, of indemnification from the government for
any losses which they may sustain in consequence of their
offices ; to endeavor to prevail upon the inhabitants of the
county of Allegany, who appear at present the least refractory,
to come into an acquiescence of the law ; representing to discreet
persons the impropriety of government's remaining a passive
spectator of the contempt of its laws.

I shall also immediately submit to the Attorney-General, for
his opinion, whether an indictable offence has not been com-
mitted by the persons who were assembled at Pittsburg, and of
what nature is the paper which contains their proceedings, with
a view, if judged expedient by you, that it may be brought under
the notice of the Circuit Court, which, I understand, is to be held
in October at Yorktown.

My present clear conviction is, that it is indispensable, if
competent evidence can be obtained, to exert the full force of the
law against the offenders, with every circumstance that can mani-
fest the determination of government to enforce its execution •
and if the processes of the courts are resisted, as is rather to be
expected, to employ those means which in the last resort are put
in the power of the Executive. If this is not done, the spirit of
disobedience will naturally extend, and the authority of the gov-
ernment will be prostrated. Moderation enough has been shown ;

286 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

it is time to assume a different tone. The well-disposed part of
the community will begin to think the Executive wanting in de-
cision and vigor. I submit these impressions to your considera-
tion, previous to any step which will involve the necessity of
ulterior proceedings ; and shall hope as speedily as possible to
receive your instructions.

"With the highest respect and the truest attachment, I have
the honor to be, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 7th Sept. 1792.

Sir:

The last post brought me your letter of the first instant, with
the inclosures respecting the disorderly conduct of the inhabi-
tants of the Western Survey of the District of Pennsylvania, in
opposing the execution of what is called the Excise Law ; and of
the insults which have been offered by some of them to the
officers who have been appointed to collect the duties on distilled
spirits agreeably thereto.

Such conduct in any of the citizens of the United States,
under any circumstances that can well be conceived, would be
exceedingly reprehensible ; but when it comes from a part of the
community for whose protection the money arising from the tax
was principally designed, it is truly unaccountable, and the spirit
of it much to be regretted.

The preliminary steps taken by you in ordering the super-
visor of the district to repair to the survey where these disor-
ders prevail, with a view to ascertain in person, "the true state
of the survey ; to collect evidence respecting the violences that
have been committed, in order to a prosecution of the offenders ;
to ascertain the particulars as to the meeting which appears to
have been held at Pittsburg ; to encourage the perseverance of
the officers in their duty, and the well-disposed inhabitants in
discountenancing such violent proceedings," &c, &c, are prudent

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 287

and proper, and I earnestly wish they may have the desired
effect. But if, notwithstanding, opposition is still given to the
due execution of the law, I have no hesitation in declaring, if the
evidence of it is clear and unequivocal, that I shall, however
reluctantly I exercise them, exert all the legal powers with which
the Executive is invested, to check so daring and unwarrantable
a spirit. It is my duty to see the laws executed : — to permit
them to be trampled upon with impunity would be repugnant to
it ; nor can the government longer remain a passive spectator of
the contempt with which they are treated. Forbearance under
a hope that the inhabitants of that survey would recover from
the delirium and folly into which they were plunged, seems to
have had no other effect than to increase the disorder.

If it shall be the Attorney-General's opinion, under a full
consideration of the case, (adverting, as I presume he will, as
well to the laws and Constitution of Pennsylvania, as to those
of the United States,) that the meeting which appears to have
been held at Pittsburg, was illegal, and the members of it indicta-
ble ; and it shall further appear to you from such information as
you may be able to obtain, and from a comparative view of all
circumstances, that it would be proper to bring the matter before
the Circuit Court, to be hoiden at Yorktown in' October next,
you have all the sanction and authority I can give to do it.

HAMILTON" TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, 8th September, 1792.

Sir:

I have to acknowledge the honor of your letter of the 31st of
August.

Letters from the supervisor of North Carolina confirm the
representation contained in the letter from the inspector of the
5th survey to you. My letter which accompanies this, suggests
the measure which, on mature reflection, has appeared most
proper to be taken upon the whole subject of the opposition to

288 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

the law. If the idea is approved by you, I believe it will be ad-
visable to transmit a copy of the proclamation to the Governors
of each of the States of South Carolina, North Carolina, and
Pennsylvania, calling their attention in a proper manner to the
state of affairs within their respective governments.

I am taking arrangements to carry into execution the pay-
ment of the debt due to foreign officers, agreeably to the au-
thorization in the close of your letter.

EANDOLPH TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Sept. 8, 1792.

Persuaded as I am that the last effort for the happiness of the
United States must perish with the loss of the present govern-
ment, and that to be unable to execute laws because a few indi-
viduals are resolved to obstruct their operations is nothing less
than a surrender of it, I went into the consideration of the Caro-
lina and Pittsburg papers with a determination to spare no pains
to ascertain the law arising from the facts which they contain.

I pass by the information from Carolina, because it offers no
evidence, nor any prospect of evidence, sufficient for the objects
of prosecution. That from Pittsburg is of a more serious com-
plexion, and yet not strong enough to warrant a judicial move-
ment in the United States. To assemble, to remonstrate, and
to invite others to assemble and remonstrate to the legislature,
are among the rights of citizens. I therefore omit special men-
tion of the two first resolutions. The last indicates a hostile
temper, as it exiles from the comforts of private friendship and
intercourse and marks for contempt the officers of excise. Still,
however, when we advert to the strictness with which criminal
law is interpreted, and the latitude allowed in drawing a meaning
from a libel so as to favor the accused, I must pronounce that the
law will not reach the conferees. I am aware that seditious attacks
on government will be generally covered by a measured, cau-

43t.3&] CABINET PAPERS. 289

tious, and artful language ; and it may be said that the public
authority will upon my principle be for ever foiled. My answer
is, that words which are calculated to withhold the exercise of
duties of imperfect obligation only, from men not named, but
who may accept in future, will disappoint the expectation of
public punishment, and thereby disgrace the United States. My
maxim is, to examine well ; to forbear a doubtful power, and to
enforce one clearly rightful.

Thus, sir, you discover my opinion to be against an attempt
to a prosecution at this moment, when the malignant spirit has not
developed itself in acts so specific, and so manifestly infringing
the peace, as obviously to expose the culpable persons to the
censures of the law.

Upon the first communication of this matter in your letter, I
thought of a proclamation as an eventual substitute, if the law
should be found inadequate. It struck me that a proclamation
was objectionable, because that it seemed that the Executive
ought to consign to the course of law any violations of it, and
not to animadvert upon acts to which no law had prescribed a
penalty ; and because an improper interference of the President
might excite an idea of usurpation, and enlist against him even
those who execrate the spirit of the Pittsburg proceedings. But,
after the anticipation of a part only of the consequences which
the silence of government would produce ; after recollecting that
these obnoxious things have been transacted in the very State
which is the temporary residence of the administration; that
they will carry with them a kind of eclat, as being done at a spot
where the United States are certainly not unpopular ; that the
western settlers in other States, from a sympathy of situation
and the want of intelligence, may imitate the conduct of the
Pennsylvania counties unless they will be restrained by a timely
admonition ; that few of the various oppositions to government
have existed which were not capable of being blasted, if encoun-
tered before men committed themselves too deeply; and that
acquiescence of the President may be imputed to a suspicion of
the unconstitutionality, or at least gross inexpediency, of the
excise laws — I yield to the necessity of a proclamation. I derive
D 19"

*290 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [;Et. 35.

the President's right to issue it from the duty of seeing the laws
executed, and the fitness of preventing the growth of a crime by
salutary advice, rather than waiting to press the infliction of pun-
ishment.

Under the influence of these sentiments, I have perused your
draft of a proclamation, and shall without reserve suggest what
I think necessary alterations, though I really wish that I could
have more time for a critical scrutiny than has occurred between
yesterday and this morning.

1. I should prefer, if it be practicable, in the description of
those proceedings which give birth to the proclamation, that
some expression be used, which may show that it is not the whole
of the Pittsburg resolutions which are censured.

2. Criminality is too strong for a case, which the laws do not
punish.

3. After the word legislative, may it not be well to insert
something to this effect? "By whose authority alone the opera-
tion of the laws can be suspended."

4. The moderation alluded to on the part of government
must be either legislative or executive. If legislative be meant,
the subsequent member of the sentence is explicit concerning it.
If executive, I know no fact to prove that the President might
have been otherwise than moderate. Perhaps, then, it may be
better to omit the words, which are liable to misconstruction.

5. I have no hesitation in saying, that the excise law was
dictated by reasons of public necessity and policy ; and I pre-
sume that the President, who has given his sanction to it, will
not scruple much on this head; but I should hope that you
would remark to him, in order to excite his particular attention,
that by such a language he exhibited himself as a peculiar friend
to the act.

6. Instead of " maintain," ought not the words of the Consti-
tution to be chosen ?

7. Every necessary measure to suppress a violent proceeding
would go much farther than the Executive ought, unless the
measure be legal. The word necessary, then, might be as well
changed for legal, or qualified by saying legal and necessary.

Mt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 291

If " suppress " means something distinct from bringing the
offenders to justice^ I do not discover what it is. If it means
the same thing, it is provided for in the second member of the
sentence. " To secure obedience thereto," is, to be sure, a
phrase expressive of the final object; but, having some latitude,
it may be perverted by its connection with the other words.
Might not the sentence read well enough thus: "That every
legal measure should be pursued, not only to bring to justice the
infractors of the laws, but also to prevent such violent and un-
warrantable proceedings."

8. " Seriously " might be changed for something which could
not be contrasted with what is not serious. Is not " warn "
too nearly synonymous with " admonish " to be coupled with it?
Suppose exhort to be substituted, if two verbs necessary.

9. I think this number stood better before the interlineation.

10. For the reasons in No. 7, " for securing obedience there-
to" would seem proper to be omitted.

11. The charge to the military would influence the country ;
nor do I think it sufficient to let it stand upon the word
"officers" generally, as the military have no power on the sub-
ject ; and, where this is the case, the exciting of a suspicion to
introduce them, cannot be too sedulously avoided. May it not
read thus: "All civil officers, according to the duties of their
respective offices, to exert, &c. ?"

I submit these observations, which on other occasions would
appear to myself too minute, but in that of a proclamation are
necessary.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

• Treasury Department. 9th September, 1792.

Sir:

I had the honor of writing to you by the post of Monday last,
and then transmitted sundry papers, respecting a meeting at
Pittsburg on the 21st of August, and other proceedings of a

292 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

disorderly nature in opposition to the laws laying a duty on dis-
tilled spirits, and I added my opinion that it was advisable for
the government to take measures for suppressing these disor-
ders and enforcing the laws with vigor and decision.

The result of further and mature deliberation is, that it will
be expedient for the President to issue a proclamation adverting
in general terms to the irregular proceedings, and manifesting an
intention to put the laws in force against offenders. The induce-
ments to this measure are:

1. That it is a usual course in like cases, and seems, all cir-
cumstances considered, requisite to the justification of the Execu-
tive Department. It is now more than fourteen months since the
duty in question began to operate. In the four western counties
of Pennsylvania, and in a great part of North Carolina, it Las
never been in any degree submitted to. And the late meeting
at Pittsburg, is in substance a repetition of what happened last
year in the same scene. The disorders in that quarter acquire
additional consequence from their being acted in the State which
is the immediate seat of government. Hence the occasion ap-
pears to be sufficiently serious and of sufficient importance to
call for such a procedure.

2. As an accommodating and temporizing conduct has been
hitherto pursued, a proclamation seems to be the natural prelude
to a different course of conduct.

3. There is considerable danger that before measures can be
matured for making a public impression by the prosecution of
offenders, the spirit of opposition may extend and break out in
other quarters, and by its extension become much more difficult
to be overcome. There is reason to hope that a proclamation
will arrest it, and give time for more effectual measures.

4. It may even prevent the necessity of ulterior coercion.
The character of the President will naturally induce a conclusion,
that he means to treat the matter seriously. This idea will be
impressive on the most refractory, it will restrain the timid and
wavering, and it will encourage the well disposed. The appear-
ance of the President in the business will awaken the attention
of a great number of persons of the last description to the evil

<£t. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 293

tendency of the conduct reprehended, who have not yet viewed
it with due seriousness. And from the co-operation of these
circumstances good may reasonably be expected.

In either view, therefore, of the propriety of conduct, or the
effects to be hoped for, the measure seems to be an advisable
one. I beg leave to add, that in my judgment, it is not only ad-
visable, but necessary. Besides, the state of things in the west-
ern part of North. Carolina, which is known to you, a letter has
just been received from the supervisor of South Carolina, men-
tioning that a spirit of discontent and opposition had been re-
vived in two of the counties of that State bordering on North
Carolina, in which it had been apparently suppressed. • This
shows the necessity of some immediate step of a general aspect,
while things are preparing, if unhappily it should become neces-
sary, to act with decision in the western counties of Pennsylva-
nia, where the government, for several obvious considerations,
will be left in condition to do it. Decision successfully exerted
in one place, will, it is presumed, be efficacious every where.

The Secretary of War and Attorney-General agree with me
in opinion on the expediency of a proclamation. The draft of
one now submitted has been framed in concert with the latter,
except as to one or two particulars, which are noted in the mar-
gin of the rough draft in my handwriting, herewith also trans-
mitted. In respect to these, the objections of that gentleman did
not appear to me well founded, and would, I think, unnecessa-
rily diminish the force of the instrument.

With the highest respect and truest attachment, I have the
honor to be, &c.

JEFFERSON TO WASHINGTON.

Monticello, 9th Sept. 1792.

Dear Sir:

I received on the 2d instant the letter of August 2od, which
you did me the honor to write me ; but the immediate return of

294 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

our post, contrary to his custom, prevented my answer by that
occasion. The proceedings of Spain, mentioned in your letter,
are really of a complexion to excite uneasiness ; and a suspicion
that their friendly overtures about the Mississippi, have been
merely to lull us, while they should be strengthening their holds
on that river. Mr. Carmichael's silence has been long my aston-
ishment; and however it might be justified, something very dif-
ferent from a new appointment, yet the public interest certainly
called for his junction with Mr. Short, as it is possible but that
his knowledge of the ground of negotiation, of persons and cha-
racters, must be useful and even necessary to the success of the
mission. That Spain and Great Britain may understand each
other on our frontiers is very possible ; for, however opposite
their interests or dispositions may be in the affairs of Europe,
yet, while these do not call them into opposite action, they may
concur as against us. I consider their keeping an agent in the
Indian country as a circumstance which requires serious interfe-
rence on our part ; and I submit to your decision, whether it
does not furnish a proper occasion to us to send an additional
instruction to Messrs. Carmichael and Short to insist on a mutual
and formal stipulation to forbear employing agents, or pensioning
any persons within each other's limits ; and if this be refused, to
propose the contrary stipulation, to wit, that each party may
freely keep agents within the Indian territories of the other, in
which case we might soon sicken them of the license.

I now take the liberty of proceeding to that part of your let-
ter, wherein you notice the internal dissensions which have taken
place within our government, and their disagreeable effects on
its movements. That such dissensions have taken place is cer-
tain ; and even among those who are nearest to you in the ad-
ministration ; to no one have they given deeper concern than
myself; to no one equal mortification at being myself a part of
them. Though I take to myself no more than my share of the
general observations of your letter, yet I am so desirous ever that
you should know the whole truth, and believe no more than the
truth, that I am glad to seize every occasion of developing to
you, whatever I do or think relative to the government, and

JEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 295

shall therefore ask permission to be more lengthy now than the
occasion particularly calls for, or would otherwise, perhaps,
justify.

When I embarked in the government, it was with a deter-
mination to intermeddle not at all with the legislature, and as
little as possible with my co-departments. The first and only in-
stance of variance from the former part of my resolution, I was
duped into by the Secretary of the Treasury, and made a tool for
forwarding his schemes, not then sufficiently understood by me ;
and of all the errors of my political life, this has occasioned me
the deepest regret. It has ever been my purpose to explain this
to you, when, from being actors on the scene, we shall have
become uninterested spectators only. The second part of my re-
solution has been religiously observed with the War Department ;
and as to that of the Treasury, has never been farther swerved
from, than by the mere enunciation of my sentiments in conver-
sation, and chiefly among those, who, expressing the same senti-
ments, drew mine from me. If it has been supposed that I have
ever intrigued among the members of the legislature to defeat
the plans of the Secretary of the Treasury, it is contrary to all
truth ; as I never had the desire to influence the members, so
neither had I any other means than my friendships, which I
valued too highly to risk by usurpations on their freedom of
judgment, and the conscientious pursuit of their own sense
of duty.

That I have utterly, in my private conversations, disapproved
of the system of the Secretary of the Treasury, I acknowledge
and avow; and this was not merely a speculative difference.
His system flowed from principles adverse to liberty, and was
calculated to undermine and demolish the republic, by creating
an influence of his department over the members of the legisla-
ture. I saw this influence actually produced, and its first fruits
to be the establishment of the great outlines of his project, by
the votes of the very persons who, having swallowed his bait,
were laying themselves out to profit by his plans ; and that, had
these persons withdrawn, as those interested in a question ever
should, the vote of the disinterested majority was clearly the re-

296 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 35.

verse of what they made it. These were no longer the votes,
then, of the representatives of the people, but of deserters from
the rights and interests of the people ; and it was impossible to
consider their decisions, which had nothing in view but to enrich,
themselves, as the measures of the fair majority which ought
always to be respected. If what was actually doing begat unea-
siness in those who wished for virtuous government, what was
further proposed was not less threatening to the friends of the
Constitution ; for in a report on the subject of manufactures
(still to be acted on) it was expressly assumed that the general
government has a right to exercise all powers which may be for
the general welfare ; that is to say, all the legitimate powers of
government ; since no government has a legitimate right to do
what is not for the welfare of the governed. There was indeed
a sham limitation of the universality of this power, to cases where
money is to be employed ; — but about what is it, that money cannot
be employed? Thus the object of these plans taken together,- is
to draw all the powrers of government into the hands of the gen-
eral legislature ; to establish means for corrupting a sufficient
corps in that legislature to divide the honest votes, and prepon-
derate by their own the scale which suits, and to have that corps
under the command of the Secretary of the Treasury, for the
purpose of subverting, step by step, the principles of the Consti-
tution, which he has so often declared to be a thing of nothing,
which must be changed. Such views might have justified some-
thing more than mere expressions of dissent, beyond which,
nevertheless, I never went. Has abstinence from the department
committed to me, been equally observed by him ? to say nothing
of other interferences equally known, in the case of the two na-
tions with which we have the most intimate connections, France
and England. My system was, to give some satisfactory distinc-
tions to the former, of little cost to us, in return for the solid ad-
vantages yielded us by them ; and to have met the English with
some restrictions which might induce them to abate their severi-
ties against our commerce. I have always supposed this coin-
cided with your sentiments. Yet the Secretary of the Treasury,
by his cabals with members of the legislature, and by high-toned

jEt.35.] cabinet papers. 297

declamations on other occasions, has forced down his own sys-
tem, which was exactly the reverse. He undertook, of his own
authority, the conferences with the ministers of these two nations ;
and was on every consultation provided with some report of a
conversation with the one or the other of them, adapted to his
views. These views, thus made to prevail, their execution fell
of course to me ; and I can safely appeal to you, who have seen
all my letters and proceedings, whether I have not carried them
into execution, as sincerely as if they had been my own ; though
I ever considered them as inconsistent with the honor and inter-
est of our country. That they have been inconsistent with our
interest, is but too fatally proved by the stab to our navigation
given by the French ; so that if the question be, By whose fault
is it that Col. Hamilton and myself have not drawn together?
the answer will depend on that to two other questions — Whose
principles of administration best justify, by their purity, consci-
entious adherence ? and, Which of us has, notwithstanding, step-
ped farthest into the control of the department of the other ?

To this justification of opinions, expressed in the way of con-
versation against the views of Colonel Hamilton, I beg leave to
add some notice of his late charges against me in Fenno's
Gazette, for neither the style, matter, nor venom of the pieces
alluded to, can leave a doubt of their author. Spelling my name
and character at full length to the public, while he conceals his
own under the signature of " An American," he charges me, 1st,
with having written letters from Europe to my friends, to oppose
the present Constitution while depending ; 2d, with a desire of
not paying the public debt ; 3d, with setting up a paper to decry
and slander the government. 1st. The first charge is most
false. No man in the United States, I suppose, approved of
every tittle in the Constitution : no one, I believe, approved of
more of it than I did ; and more of it was certainly disapproved
by my accuser, than by me, and of its parts most vitally repub-
lican. Of this the few letters I wrote on the subject (not half a
dozen I believe), will be a proof; and for my own satisfaction
and justification, I must tax you with the reading of them, when
I return to where they are. You will then see that my objection

298 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

to the Constitution was, that it wanted a bill of rights ; — securing
freedom of religion, — freedom of the press, — freedom from stand-
ing armies, — trial by jury, — and a constant Habeas Corpus Act.
Colonel Hamilton's was, that it wanted a king and house of
lords. The sense of America has approved my objection, and
added the bill of rights, not the king and lords. I also thought
a longer term of service, insusceptible of renewal, would have
made a President more independent. My country has thought
otherwise, and I have acquiesced implicitly. He wished the
general government should have power to make laws, binding
the States in all cases whatsoever — our country has thought
otherwise : has he acquiesced ?

Notwithstanding my wish for a bill of rights, my letters
strongly urged the adoption of the Constitution by nine States at
least, to secure the good it contained. I at first thought that the
best method of securing the bill of rights would be for four
States to hold off till such a bill should be agreed to. But the
moment I saw Mr. Hancock's proposition to pass the Constitution
as it stood, and give perpetual instructions to the representatives
of every State, to insist on a bill of rights, I acknowledged the
superiority of his plan, and advocated universal adoption.

2d. The second charge is equally untrue. My whole corres-
pondence while in France, and every word, letter, and act on the
subject since my return, prove that no man is more ardently
intent to see the public debt soon and sacredly paid off than I
am. This exactly makes the difference between Colonel Hamil-
ton's views and mine, that I would wish the debt paid to-morrow ;
he wishes it never to be paid, but always to be a thing where-
with to corrupt and manage the legislature. )

3d. I have never inquired what number of sons, relations
and friends of senators, representatives, printers, or other useful
partisans Colonel Hamilton has provided for among the hundred
clerks of his department, the thousand excise men, custom-house
officers, loan officers, &c, &c, &c, appointed by him, or at his
nod, and spread over the Union ; nor could have ever imagined
that the man who has the shuffling of millions backwards and
forwards, from paper into money, and money into paper, from

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 299

Europe to America, and America to Europe — the dealing out of
treasury secrets among his friends, in what time and measure he
pleases, and who never slips an occasion of making friends
with his means : — that such an one, I say, would have brought
forward a charge against me for having appointed the poet
Freneau translating clerk to my office, with a salary of $250 a
year. That fact stands thus. While the government was at
New- York, I was appealed to on behalf of Freneau, to know
if there was any place within my department, to which he could
be appointed. I answered there were but four clerkships, all of
which I found full, and continued without any change. When
we removed to Philadelphia, Mr. Pintard, the translating clerk,
did not choose to remove with us ; his office then became vacant.
I was again applied to there, for Freneau, and had no hesitation
to promise the clerkship for him. I cannot recollect whether it
was at the same time or afterwards that I was told he had a
thought of setting up a newspaper there ; but whether then or
afterwards I considered it a circumstance of some value, as it
might enable me to do, what I had long wished to have done ; that
is, to have the material parts of the Leyden Gazette brought
under your eye and that of the public, in order to possess your-
self and them of a juster view of the affairs of Europe, than
could be obtained from any other public source. This I had
ineffectually attempted through the press of Mr. Fenno while in
New-York, selecting and translating passages, myself at first,
then having it done by Mr. Pintard, the translating clerk. But
they found their way too slowly into Mr. Fenno's papers. Mr.
Bache essayed it for me in Philadelphia ; but his being a daily
paper, did not circulate sufficiently in the other States. He even
tried, at my request, the plan of a weekly paper of recapitula-
tion, from his daily paper, in hopes that that might go into the
other States ; but in this too, we failed. Freneau as translating
clerk, and the printer of a periodical paper, likely to circulate
through the States, (uniting in one person the parts of Pintard
and Fenno,) revived my hopes that the thing could at length be
effected. On the establishment of his paper, therefore, I fur-
nished him with the Leyden Gazettes, with an expression of my

300 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

wish that he would always translate and publish the material in-
telligence they contained ; and I have continued to furnish them
from time to time, as regularly as I received them. But as to
any other direction or indication of my wish, how his press
should be conducted, what sort of intelligence he should give,
what essays encourage, I can protest in the presence of heaven,
that I never did, by myself or any other, directly or indirectly,
say a syllable, nor attempt any kind of influence. I can further
protest in the same awful presence, that I never did, by myself or
any other, directly or indirectly, write, dictate, or procure any
one sentiment or sentence to be inserted in his, or any other
gazette, to which my name was not affixed, or that of my office.

I surely need not except here a thing so foreign to the present
subject, as a little paragraph about our Algerine captives, which
I put once into Fenno's paper. Freneau's proposition to publish
a paper having been about the time that the writings of Publicola
and the discourses on Davila had a good deal excited the public
attention, I took for granted, from Freneau's character, which
had been marked as that of a good Whig, that he would give
free place to pieces written against the aristocratical and mo-
narchical principles these papers had inculcated.

This having been in my mind, it is likely enough I may have
expressed it in conversation with others, though I do not recol-
lect that I did ; to Freneau I think I could not, because I had
still seen him but once, and that was at a public table, at break-
fast, at Mrs. Ellsworth's, as I passed through New- York, the last
year; and I can safely declare that my expectations looked only
to the chastisement of the aristocratical and monarchical writers,
and not to any criticisms on the proceedings of the government.
Col. Hamilton can see no motive for any- appointment but that
of making a convenient partisan ; but you, sir, who have received
from me recommendations of a Eittenhouse, Barlow, Paine, will
believe that talents and science are sufficient motives with me in
appointments to which they are fitted ; and that Freneau, as a
man of genius, might find a preference in my eye to be a trans-
lating clerk, and make good title moreover to the little aids I
could give him as the editor of a gazette, by procuring subscript

JEt.35.] CABINET PAPERS. 301

tions to his paper, as I did — some before it appeared ; and as I
have with pleasure done for the labors of other men of genius. I
hold it to be one of the distinguishing excellences of elective
over hereditary successions, that the talents which nature has
provided in sufficient proportion should be selected by the society
for the government of their affairs, rather than that this should
be transmitted through the loins of knaves and fools, passing
from the debauchees of the table to those of the bed. Col.
Hamilton, alias "Plain Facts," says that Freneau's salary began
before he resided in Philadelphia. I do not know what quibble
he may have in reserve on the word "residence;" he may mean
to include under that idea the removal of his family, for I believe
he removed himself before his family did to Philadelphia ; but no
act of mine gave commencement to his salary before he so far
took up his abode in Philadelphia as to be sufficiently in readi-
ness for the duties of the office. As to the merits or demerits of
his paper, they certainly concern me not. He and Fenno are
rivals for the public favor. The one courts them by flattery, the
other by censure ; and I believe it will be admitted that the one
has been as servile as the other severe. But is not the dignity
and even decency of government committed, when one of its
principal ministers enlists himself as an anonymous writer, or
paragraphist, for either the one or the other of them ? No gov-
ernment ought to be without censors ; and where the press is
free, no one ever will. If virtuous, it need not fear the fair
operation of attack and defence : nature has given to man no
other means of sifting out the truth either in religion, law, or
politics. I think it as honorable to the government neither to
know nor notice its sycophants or censors, as it would be undig-
nified and criminal to pamper the former and persecute the latter.
So much for the past : a word now of the future.

When I came into this office, it was with a resolution to retire
from it as soon as I could with decency. It pretty early appeared
to me that the proper moment would be, at the first of those
epochs, at which the Constitution seems to have contemplated a
periodical change or renewal of the public servants. In this I
was confirmed by your resolution respecting the same period ;

302 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

from which, however, I am happy in hoping you have departed.
I look to that period with the longing of a wave-worn mariner,
who has at length the land in view ; and shall count the days
and hours which still lie between me and it. In the mean while,
my main object will be to wind up the business of my office,
avoiding as much as possible all new enterprise. With the
affairs of the legislature, as I never did intermeddle, so I cer-
tainly shall not now begin. I am more desirous to predispose
every thing for the repose to which I am withdrawing, than ex-
pose it to be disturbed by newspaper contests. If these, however,
cannot be avoided altogether, yet a regard for your quiet will be
a sufficient motive for deferring it till I become merely a private
citizen, when the propriety or impropriety of what I may say or
do may fall on myself alone. I may then, too, avoid the charge
of misapplying that time which, now belonging to those who
employ me, should be wholly devoted to their service, if my own
justification, or the interests of the public, shall require it. I
reserve to myself the right of then appealing to my country,
subscribing my name to whatever I write, and using with free-
dom and truth, the facts and names necessary to place the cause
in its just form before that tribunal. To a thorough disregard of
the honors and emoluments of office, I join as great a value for
the esteem of my countrymen ; and, conscious of having merited
it by an integrity which cannot be reproached, and by an enthu-
siastic devotion to their rights and liberty, I will not suffer my
retirement to be clouded by the slanders of a man, whose his-
tory, from the moment at which history can stoop to notice him,
is a tissue of machinations against the liberty of the country
which has not only received and given him bread, but heaped its
honors on his head. Still, however, I repeat the hope that it
will not be necessary to make such an appeal. Though little
known to the people of America, I believe that, as far as I am
known, it is not as an enemy to the republic, nor an intriguer
against it, nor a waster of its revenue, nor prostitutor of it to the
purposes of corruption, as the American represents me ; and I
confide that yourself are satisfied that, as to dissensions in the
newspapers, not a syllable of them has ever proceeded from me ;

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 303

and that no cabals or intrigues of mine have produced those in
the legislature ; and I hope I may promise both to you and my-
self, that none will receive aliment from me during the short
space I have to remain in office ; which will find ample employ-
ment in closing the present business of the department.

Observing that letters written at Mount Yernon on the Mon-
day, and arriving at Eichmond on the Wednesday, reach me on
Saturday, I have now the honor to mention that the 22d inst.
will be the last of our post days that I shall be here, and conse-
quently that no letter from you after the 17th will find me here.
Soon after that, I shall have the honor of receiving at Mount
Vernon your orders for Philadelphia, and of there also delivering
you the little matter which occurs to me as proper for the open-
ing of Congress, exclusive of what has been recommended in for-
mer speeches, and not yet acted on.

In the mean time, and ever, I am, with great and sincere
affection and respect, dear sir, your most obedient and most
humble servant,

Th. Jefferson.

HAMILTON" TO WASHINGTON".

Philadelphia, September 9th, 1792.

Sir:

I have the pleasure of your private letter of the 26th of
August. The feelings and views which are manifested in that
letter, are such as I expected would exist. And I most sincerely
regret the causes of the uneasy sensations you experience. It is
my most anxious wish, as far as may depend upon me, to smooth
the path of your administration, and to render it prosperous and
happy. And if any prospect shall open of healing or terminat-
ing the differences which exist, I shall most cheerfully embrace
it; though I consider myself as the deeply injured party. The
recommendation of such a spirit is worthy of the moderation and
wisdom which dictated it. And if your endeavors should prove

I

304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

unsuccessful, I do not hesitate to say, that in my opinion the pe-
riod is not remote, when the public good will require substitutes
for the differing members of your administration. The continu-
ance of a division there must destroy the energy of govern-
ment, which will be little enough with the strictest union. On
my part there will be a most cheerful acquiescence in such a
result.

I trust, sir, that the greatest frankness has always marked,
and will always mark, every step of my conduct towards you.
In this disposition I cannot conceal from you, that I have had
some instrumentality of late in the retaliations, which have fallen
upon certain public characters, and that I find myself placed in
a situation not to be able to recede for the present.

I considered myself as compelled to this conduct by reasons
public as well as personal, of the most cogent nature.- I know
that I have been an object of uniform opposition from Mr. Jeffer-
son, from the moment of his coming to the city of New- York to
enter upon his present ofhce. I know from the most authentic
sources, that I have been the frequent subject of the most unkind
whispers and insinuations from the same quarter. I have long
seen a formed party in the legislature under his auspices, bent
upon my subversion. I cannot doubt from the evidence I pos-
sess, that the National Gazette was instituted by him for political
purposes, and that one leading object of it has been to render
me, and all the measures connected with my department, as
odious as possible. Nevertheless, I can truly say, that, except
explanations to confidential friends, I never directly or indi-
rectly retaliated or countenanced retaliation till very -lately. I
can even assure you, that I was instrumental in preventing a
very severe and systematic attack upon Mr. Jefferson by an asso-
ciation of two or three individuals, in consequence of the persecu-
tion which he brought upon the Yice-President, by his indiscreet
and light letter to the printer, transmitting Paints pamphlet.

As long as I saw no danger to the government from the ma-
chinations which were going on, I resolved to be a silent sufferer
of the injuries which were done me. I determined to avoid giv-
ing occasion to any thing, which could manifest to the world

jEt.35.] CABINET PAPERS. 305

dissensions among the principal characters of the government; a
thing which can never happen without weakening its hands, and
in some degree throwing a stigma upon it.

But when I no longer doubted that there was a formed party-
deliberately bent upon the subversion of measures, which in its7
consequences would subvert the government ; when I saw that
the undoing of the funding system in particular, (which, what-
ever may be the original merits of that system, would prostrate
the credit and the honor of the nation, and bring the government
into contempt with that description of men, who are in every
society the only firm supporters of government,) was an avowed
object of the party ; and that all possible pains were taking to
produce that effect, by rendering it odious to the body of the
people, I considered it as a duty to endeavor to resist the tor-
rent, and, as an effectual means to this end, to draw aside the
veil from the principal actors. To this strong impulse, to this
decided conviction, I have yielded. And I think events will
prove that I have judged rightly.

Nevertheless, I pledge my honor to you, sir, that if you shall
hereafter form a plan to re-unite the members of your adminis-
tration upon some steady principle of co-operation, I will faith-
fully concur in executing it during my continuance in office ;
and I will not directly or indirectly say or do a thing that shall
endanger a feud.

I have had it very much at heart to make an excursion to
Mount Yernon, by way of the federal city, in the course of this
month, and have been more than once on the point of asking
your permission for it. But I now despair of being able to
effect it. I am, nevertheless, equally obliged by your kind in-
vitation.

The subject mentioned in the postscript of your letter shall,
with great pleasure, be carefully attended to.

With the most faithful and affectionate attachment, I have
the honor to remain, sir, yours, &c.

Alexander Hamilton.

d 20

306 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35,

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, Sept. 11, 1792.

Sir:

Herewith is an official letter, submitting the draft of a Procla-
mation. I reserve some observations as most proper for a private
letter.

In the case of a former proclamation, I observe it was under
the seal of the United States, and countersigned by the Secretary
of State. If the precedent was now to be formed, I should ex-
press a doubt whether it was such an instrument as ought to be
under the seal of the United States ; and I believe usage, as well
in this country under the State governments as in Great Britain,
would be found against it ; but the practice having been begun,
there are many reasons which in this instance recommend an
adherence to it, and the form of the attestation is adapted to this
idea.

But still, if the Secretary of State should be at so great a
distance, or if an uncertainty of his being in the way should in-
volve the probability of considerable delay, it will be well to
consider if the precedent ought not to be departed from. In this
case, the attestation will be required to be varied, so as to omit
from the words "In testimony" to the words "my hand," inclu-
sively, and to substitute the word "Given" to "Done;" and it
may be advisable to direct the Attorney-General to counter-
sign it.

Every day's delay will render the act less impressive, and de-
feat part of its object.

The propriety of issuing the proclamation depends of course
upon a resolution to act in conformity to it, and put in force
all the powers and means with which the Executive is possessed,
as occasion shall require. My own mind is made up fully to this
issue, and on this my suggestion of the measure is founded.
Your letter by the last post, confirming former intimations, as-
sures me that you view the matter in the same light.

The words in the proclamation, " dictated by weighty reasons

Ms. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 307

of public exigency and policy," are not essential to the general
scope of it. They amount to an additional commitment of the
President on the question of the merits of the law, and will re-
quire to be well considered.

That the proclamation, both as to manner and matter, will be
criticised, cannot be matter of surprise, if it should happen, to
any one who is aware of the lengths to which a certain party is
prepared to go. It ought to be anticipated as probable.

In a step so delicate and so full of responsibility, I thought
it my duty to make these observations ; though I was sure they
would of themselves occur.

It is satisfactory to know that a jury in Chester county con-
victed a person who was guilty of assaulting an officer of inspec-
tion. On being interrogated, they answered that they had found
him guilty upon the count in the indictment which charged him
with assaulting the officer in the execution of his duty ; that the
law was a constitutional act of government, and was not to be
resisted by violence. I have directed Mr. Coxe to collect and
publish the particulars. The symptom is a good one.

With the most faithful and affectionate attachment, &o.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.
Treasury Department, Philadelphia, Sept. 13, 1792.

Sir:

Having been authorized by the President to take arrange-
ments for paying off the debt due to foreign officers, the interest
of which is payable at the house of Mr. Grand, banker, at Paris ;
and having concluded to commit to Gouverneur Morris, Esquire,
being on the spot, the management of the detail as to the pay-
ment of interest (that of the principal being to be made here), I
am to request that you will instruct our commissioners in Hol-
land to pay to the order of Mr. Morris the sum of one hundred
and five thousand guilders, to be applied to that purpose, and

308 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 35.

will cause him to be immediately notified of its having been
done. A copy of a letter of instructions to Mr. Morris is inclosed
for your information.

HAMILTON TO MOEEIS.

Treasury Department, September 13th, 1792.

Sir:

The legislature, at their last session, having made provision
for the paying off the debt due to foreign officers, the interest of
which is payable at the house of Mr. Grand, banker, at Paris;
and the President having authorized me to carry that provision
into effect ; I have concluded to commit such part of the business
as is to be transacted at Paris, to your management, not doubt-
ing of the cheerfulness with which you will render this service
to the public and to my particular department.

The object not regarding your diplomatic mission, and Mr.
Jefferson being absent from the seat of government, I open
without scruple a direct communication with you on the subject.

By the tenor of the certificates which were issued, the stipu-
lation to pay at Paris is confined to the interest. The principal
is, of course, payable in the United States.

To enable you to make the payment of this interest, Mr.
Short is directed to subject to your order, in the hands of our
commissioners in Holland, the sum of one hundred and five
thousand guilders.

Inclosed is a list showing the names of the persons to be
paid, and the amount of principal and interest due to each ;
computing interest from the 1st day of January, 1789, up to the
last of the present year.

The reason of beginning at the 1st of January, 1789, is, that
Congress placed a fund in the disposition of their then minister
plenipotentiary to make payments up to that time ; and though
an account of the application of that sum has not been ren-

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 309

dered, it is understood that the payment provided for was
made.

By the list referred to, yon will find that the sum directed to
be placed at your order is adequate to the object.

The instruction of the President to me is, to cause the pay-
ment to be made in "a mode which will exempt the parties
from the loss attendant on the depreciation of the assi gnats, and,
at the same time, occasion no loss to the United States."

The line of conduct which has appeared to me proper to ful-
fil the spirit of this instruction is, to give to each creditor his
option either to receive bills on Amsterdam, dollar for dollar,
according to the intrinsic par of the metals at Paris and Amster-
dam, or to receive an equivalent in assignats according to the
current rate of exchange between Paris and Holland at the
time.

To exemplify what is meant by an equivalent, suppose the
following data :

1. That two and a half guilders are equal to a dollar, ac-
cording to the intrinsic par of the metals at Paris and Am-
sterdam.

2. That the current rate of exchange between the two places
is 20 per cent, against Paris ; that is, 100 guilders at Paris will
bring only 80 at Amsterdam.

3. That the sum to be paid for principal and interest is 100
dollars.

The computation to ascertain the equivalent will then stand
thus :

If 80 be equal to 100, so will 100 be equal to 125. 125 X
2^=312^ guilders ; which being converted into livres, at par, will
be to be paid in assignats, at their nominal value, livrefor litre.

I have made an arrangement to begin the discharge of the
principal here at any time after the 15th of October next, upon
demand, and the production of the certificate by the party, or
his legal representative, or attorney duly constituted and au-
thorized. Notice will be given, that after the 1st of December
next, interest will cease as to all those who shall not have made
application for their principal by that day.

310 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

I request that you will also cause some proper notification of
this arrangement to be given in France.

As the certificates will be required to be produced here, the
payment of interest at Paris must be made without the produc-
tion of them. Especial care must, of course, be taken to ascer-
tain that the payments are made to the identical creditors, or
their certain attorneys. It will be well that duplicate or tripli-
cate receipts be taken for such payments, in order that one or
more sets may be transmitted with the accounts current.

Should there be any who may prefer receiving their whole
dues, interest as well as principal, here, they may have the
option of doing it ; but in this case they must make known their
election to you, or to some person whom you shall appoint, and
must obtain a certificate from you, or the person appointed by
you, of their having made and communicated that election.
Should you authorize another person for the purpose, you will
please to inform me, without delay, who he is, and send me his
signature.

The payments are stipulated to be made at the house of Mr.
Grand ; and those Avhich have been heretofore made have passed
through his hands. The same course will be proper, unless there
are good reasons to the contrary. You, who are on the spot,
will judge how far any such reasons may have resulted from the
tempests which have of late agitated the kingdom, and you will
act accordingly. Nobody knows better than you how important
it is to make no missteps in money concerns.

With the most respectful consideration, I have the honor to
be, &c.

P. S. Herewith you will also find the evidence of a claim
which has been lodged at the Treasury on behalf of Mr. Claviere,
that what is right in the matter may be done. A copy of an
advertisement from the Treasurer, of the seventeenth instant, is
also inclosed.

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 311

PROCLAMATION.

Sept. loth, 1792.

Whereas certain violent and unwarrantable proceedings have
lately taken place, tending to obstruct the operation of the laws
of the United States for raising revenue upon spirits distilled
within the same, enacted pursuant to express authority dele-
gated in the Constitution of the United States, which pro-
ceedings are subversive of good order, contrary to the duty that
every citizen owes to his country and to the laws, and of a na-
ture dangerous to the very being of government ;

And whereas such proceedings are the more unwarrantable, by
reason of the moderation which has been heretofore shown on the
part of the government, and of the disposition manifested by the
legislature (who alone have authority to suspend the operation of
laws) to obviate causes of objection and render the laws as ac-
ceptable as possible ; and whereas it is the particular duty of the
Executive "to take care that the laws be faithfully executed;"
and not only that duty, but the permanent interest and happi-
ness of the people, require, that every legal and necessary step
should be pursued, as well to prevent such violent and unwar-
rantable proceedings as to bring to justice the infractors of the
laws, and secure obebience thereto ;

Now, therefore, I, George Washington, President of the
United States, do by these presents most earnestly admonish and
exhort all persons whom it may concern to refrain and desist
from all unlawful combinations and proceedings whatsoever,
having for object or tending to obstruct the operation of the laws
aforesaid ; inasmuch as all lawful ways and means will be shortly
put in execution for bringing to justice the infractors thereof,
and securing obedience thereto.

And 1 do moreover charge and require all courts, magistrates
and officers whom it may concern, according to the duties of
their several offices, to exert the powers in them respectively
vested by law for the purposes aforesaid ; hereby also enjoining
and requiring all persons whomsoever, as they tender the wel-

312 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

fare of their country, the just and due authority of government,
and the preservation of the public peace, to be aiding and assisting
therein according to law.

In testimony whereof I have caused the seal of the United
States to be affixed to these presents, and signed the same with,
my hand. Done this 15th day of September, in the year of
our Lord 1792, and of the Independence of the United States the
seventeenth.

George "Washington.

By the President.

Th. Jefferson.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, September 16, 1792.

Dear Sir :

Your private letter of the 11th, accompanying an official one
of the 9th, came safe, as did your other private letter of the 9th;
and I feel myself obliged by the observations contained in the
first respecting the proclamation.

As the former proclamations on similar occasions have been
countersigned by the Secretary of State, I have, for that reason,
and for another which has some weight in my mind, thought it
best not to depart in this instance from the precedent which has
been set ; and, therefore, as it cannot, unless unforeseen delays
happen, be withheld from you more than six days longer than if
it had been returned by this day's post, I despatched by express
the proclamation to Mr. Jefferson, for the purpose above men-
tioned.

I have no doubt that the proclamation will undergo many
strictures ; and as the effect proposed may not be answered by it,
it will be necessary to look forward in time to ulterior arrange-
ments. And here not only the Constitution and laws must
strictly govern, but the employing the regular troops be avoided,
if it be possible to effect order without their aid ; otherwise there

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 313

would be a cry at once, " The cat is let out ; we now see for what
purpose an army was raised." Yet, if no other means will
effectually answer, and the Constitution and laws will authorize
these, they must be used as a dernier resort.

If you remain in opinion that it would be advisable for the
President to transmit the proclamation to the Governors of
North and South Carolina, and to the Governor of Pennsylvania,
I pray you to draft such letters to them, to be forwarded from
hence (with proclamations, which must also be sent to me), as
you may think best calculated to produce the end proposed.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, Sept. 17th, 1792.

Sir:

Your letters of the 8th and 9th inst. are received. The latter
came to me on Saturday morning, by express, from the post-
office in Alexandria. I gave the proclamation my signature,
and forwarded it in the afternoon of the same day, by a special
messenger, to the Secretary of State, for his countersign. If no
unforeseen delay happens, the return of it may be in time for
Friday's post, so as to be with you the Tuesday following.

It is much to be regretted that occurrences of a nature so re-
pugnant to order and good government should not only afford
the occasion, but render such an interference of the Executive in-
dispensably necessary. When these happen, and lenient and
temporizing means have been used, and serve only to increase
tjie disorder, longer forbearance would become unjustifiable re-
missness, and a neglect of that duty which is enjoined on the
President. I can have no hesitation, therefore, under this view
of the case, to adopt such legal measures to check the disorderly
opposition which is given to the execution of the laws laying a
duty on distilled spirits, as the Constitution has invested the
Executive with ; and however painful the measure would be, if

314 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 35.

the proclamation should fail to produce the effect desired, ulte-
rior arrangements must be made to support the laws, and to pre-
vent the prostration of government.

Were it not for the peculiar circumstances of my family, I
would return to the seat of government immediately ; at any
rate, I hope to do it in the early part of the next month, or be-
fore the middle thereof. With esteem and regard, &c.

JEFFERSON TO WASHINGTON.

Monticello, 18th September, 1792.

Dear Sir :

Your express is this moment arrived with the proclamation
on the proceedings against the laws for raising a revenue on dis-
tilled spirits, and I return it here inclosed with my signature.

I think if instead of the words " to render laws dictated by
weighty reasons of public exigency and policy as acceptable as
possible," it stood "to render the laws as acceptable as possible,"
it would be better. I see no other particular expressions which
need alteration. I am sincerely sorry to learn that such pro-
ceedings have taken place, and I hope the proclamation will lead
the persons concerned into a regular line of application, which
may end either in an amendment of the law if it needs it, or in
their conviction that it is right.

I have the honor to be, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, September 21st, 1792.

Sir:

Under cover of this letter you will receive the proclamation,
which is just returned to me with the countersignature of the Sec-

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. ' 315

retary of State. I have erased the words " dictated by weighty
reasons of public exigency," and scored others with a pencil,
which you are hereby authorized to take out or retain as you
may think best.

As the instrument is drawn, I could do no otherwise than
fill up one of the blanks with the name of the place at which I
now am, but, as it is to have a general circulation, you may de-
cide upon the propriety of this, and alter or let it stand, accord-
ing to your judgment.

With esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, September 22d, 1792.

Sir:

I have been duly honored with your letters of the 7th and
17th instant, and perceive with much pleasure a confirmation of
the expectation which your former communications had given,
that your view of the measures proper to be pursued respecting
the proceedings therein referred to, would correspond with the
impressions entertained here.

I flatter myself that the proclamation will answer a very
valuable purpose ; but every thing, which the law and prudence
will warrant, will be put in train as circumstances shall indicate,
for such eventual measures as may be found necessary. I do
not however despair that, with a proper countenance, the ordi-
nary course of legal coercion will be found adequate.

The inclosed copy of a letter from the Inspector of Kentucky
to the Supervisor of Yirginia, of the 12th of July last, and the
copy of a letter from one of his collectors to him of the 1st of
June, contain interesting, and, comparatively, not discouraging
matter respecting the state of things in that survey.

The Supervisor of Yirginia, in a letter to the Commissioner of
the Revenue of the 10th instant, expresses himself thus — " I can
truly say that the excise is now fairly on its legs in this district ;

316 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

it rests on the good will of the greater part of the people, and
our collectors are from no cause indisposed to the service, but
the apprehension of too much business for too little compensa-
tion." A letter from Mr. Hawkins (Senator) to Mr. Coxe, an-
nounces favorable symptoms in the part of North Carolina which
is in the vicinity of his residence.

On the whole, I see no cause of apprehension but that the
law will finally go into full operation, with as much good will of
the people as usually attends revenue laws.

You will be pleased also to find inclosed a letter from the
Commissioner of Eevenue to me, dated the 12th instant, submit-
ting an arrangement for compensating the officers of inspection
for the period antecedent to the commencement of the permanent
arrangement which you lately established ; and the plan of an
act for that purpose, to be passed by the President, if approved
by him ; together with an estimate of the total expense of the
proposed arrangement.

The law has made provision for a retrospective increase of
compensation, at the direction of the President ; and as the out-
set of the business will have been of course the most perplexing
and troublesome, nothing can be more equitable than such a
retrospection, except in those particulars in which the increased
compensations would either be inapplicable, or liable to abuse.
It will have, besides, the good effect of stimulating the zeal of
the officers, by showing a liberal attention to their past services,
hitherto defectively requited.

The plan submitted is the result of previous consultation be-
tween the Commissioner of the Revenue and myself, and appears
to me an eligible medium.

The petition from the keeper of the Rhode Island light-house
has been put in a course of inquiry, and the result will be made
known.

The light-house in Yirginia being nearly finished, a trusty
keeper of it will be speedily necessary. A letter from David M.
Randolph, Esq., to Governor Lee, which was transmitted by him
to me, and is inclosed, recommends for the purpose the name of
John Waller Johnson ; but I have no other information concern-

J^t. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 317

ing him. You will probably recollect, sir, a person who, some
time since, was recommended by Colonel Parker — a man who, it
seems, was very active during the war, and distinguished himself
in some water enterprises ; but who appeared much addicted to
liquor, a fault peculiarly disqualifying in such a station. I re-
gret that I forget his name. I believe he was disabled in one of
his arms. ISTo other candidate has been brought forward. A
letter has been written to Mr. Newton, mentioning Mr. Johnson
to him, and requesting him to communicate his opinion of him
to you, and of any other character who might occur.

Pursuant to the authorization in your letter of the 7th instant,
measures have been taken for discharging the debts due to foreign
officers. Upon a review of the tenor of the certificates in order
to this, it appeared that the interest only was payable at Paris,
the principal here. Had it been clear that motives of accommo-
dation would render the payment both of principal and interest
there desirable, there might have been difficulty in justifying the
regularity of the proceeding, and of course hazard of blame, espe-
cially if any mistake or accident in the execution had happened.
But it is very possible that payment in the United States will be
most agreeable to the greatest number. The arrangement of
course embraces the payment of interest at Paris, of principal at
the Treasury; but with an option to those who choose it, to
receive both at the Treasury, as will be more particularly seen
by the inclosed copy of an advertisement by the Treasurer.
With the highest respect and truest attachment, &c.

P. S. — I have the pleasure to transmit herewith a letter from
Mr. G. Morris, which was handed to me by Mr. K. Morris. The
Supervisor has been desired to forward to the Circuit Court at
Yorktown such proof as he should be able to collect, addressed
to the Attorney-General. It will, I perceive, be satisfactory
to that officer to receive your direction to proceed there. His
presence is of importance, as well to give weight to what it may
be proper to do, as to afford security that nothing which cannot
be supported will be attempted. I submit the expediency of a
line from you to him.

318 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

WASHINGTON TO GOVERNORS OF PENNSYLVANIA AND NORTH

AND SOUTH CAROLINA.

(circular.)

Draft by Hamilton.

United States, 29th Sept., 1792.

Sir:

Inclosed you will find the copy of a proclamation which I
have thought proper to issue, in consequence of certain irregular
and refractory proceedings, which have taken place in particular
parts of some of the States, contravening the laws therein men-
tioned.

I feel an entire confidence that the weight and influence of
the Executive of * * * * will be cheerfully exerted in every
proper way, to further the objects of this measure, and to pro-
mote on every occasion a due obedience to the constitutional
laws of the Union.

With respect, I am, sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Newark, New Jersey, October 1st, 1792.

Sir:

On my arrival here, upon an excursion of a few days, I find
the intelligence of a suspension of the king of France, and of a
new revolution in that country. I take it for granted, that, after
such an event, no further payments will have been made to
France. It is now impossible to calculate any thing concerning
the affairs of that country ; and, of course, the validity, as well as
the usefulness to itself, of future reimbursements, would be ques-
tionable. This letter serves for the present barely to convey
this idea.

iET. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 319

HAMILTON TO SHORT.
Treasury Department, Philadelphia, October 16th, 1792.

Sir:

There being a vessel in port ready to sail for Amsterdam, I
take the opportunity to inclose you triplicates of my letters of
the 13th ultimo, and 1st instant, and to note to you that I have
directed the Treasurer to draw upon our Commissioners at Am-
sterdam for one hundred thousand guilders, in addition to the
sums mentioned in my letter of the 25th of July.

This I have done in consequence of a persuasion that the late
events in France will have interrupted payments to that country.
I shall, however, forbear further drafts, till I receive further
advices.

I also inclose a letter to our Minister in France, which I re-
quest you to forward to him.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

October 31, 1792.
The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President of the United States, incloses the arrangement for re-
trospective compensations to officers of the revenue, which,
agreeably to the intimation of the President, has been retained.
Mr. Hamilton will wait on the President between twelve and
one, to give the explanations desired.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Oct. 31, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor respectfully to
communicate to the President an authenticated copy of the Con-

320 HAMILTON'S WORKS. L^t. 35.

tract for the last loan made in Holland, for three millions of
florins, bearing date the 9th of August, 1792, at a rate of four
per cent, interest, of which contract a ratification of the Presi-
dent, as heretofore, is required.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, November 5th, 1792.

Sir:

The last letter which I have had the pleasure of receiving from
you, is dated the 6th of August. By letters from Mr. Morris to
the Secretary of State, down to the 16th of that month, it ap-
peared that he had, on the 6th, ordered a payment to the French
Treasury, of one million six hundred and twenty-five thousand
B. florins. But nothing is said which can enlighten me as to his
opinion whether the last change in the affairs of France, namely
the suspension of the king, ought to suspend further payments
on account of the United States to the government of that coun-
try. Hence, though I entertain a persuasion, as mentioned in
my letter of the 18th of October, a fourth copy of which is
inclosed, that no further payments after that event will have
been deemed proper, and, consequently, that a considerable sum
of money will have been left undisposed of in the hands of our
commissioners, yet the want of some certain indication on that
point is a cause of perplexity to me.

The dispositions heretofore announced, contemplated the pay-
ment of interest on the foreign debt to individuals, only up to
the end of the present year, out of funds accruing in Europe,
and render it possible that all others might be applied in pay-
ments to France. Yet, under present circumstances, to add, by
remittances from this country, to the considerable funds, which
probably are already on hand there unemployed, and a part of
which has been so long in that situation, would be too disadvan-
tageous to the United States.

Upon the whole, I elect to forbear till further advices, any

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 321

remittances from hence, considering that on any emergency you
will be able to procure either a temporary or permanent loan
equal to the demand. On the 1st of January, 1793, there will
be due in Holland 120,000 florins for interest; on the 1st of
February 230,000 for interest and 100,000 for premium, on the
1st of March 125,000 for interest, on the first of June 470,000
for interest, and 100,000 for the first instalment of the 5,000,000
loan.

For facing these engagements it appears advisable that you
endeavor to contract a loan for 2,000,000 of florins. In the
present state of French affairs it is proper to postpone any further
borrowing with a view to reimbursements there.

Should it appear, as I expect from your future advices, that
there will remain moneys unapplied and subject to dispositions
from hence, I shall take care so to regulate the drafts which may
be made as to leave at your disposal at least a sufficient sum for
paying the interest in January and February, so as to afford time
for such further operations as may be requisite.

I am now anxious, as soon as possible, to adopt a regular
plan for paying the interest on our foreign debt by remittances
from this country. On fuJl reflection I have concluded that the
doing of it by means of bills of exchange is preferable to any
other mode. But for this purpose some auxiliary arrangement
is necessary. Bills are not always to be had at the moment they
are wanted. If I am to depend wholly on a casual supply I shall
often be obliged to force the market or remit specie. To avoid
being pressed at any time I have conceived that it would be
eligible to adopt the following plan : To stipulate with some com-
petent house for a contingent credit, equal to the sums payable for
interest at the several periods ; that is, the house to be obliged to
furnish the sums when due, if required so to do, for a certain
term of credit, say six months, upon the conditions of receiving,
absolutely, a small premium, whether the money be called for or
not, with a certain rate of interest if called for on the sum
actually advanced, from the time of its being advanced to the
time of its reimbursement.

Suppose the contract were made and the premium stipulated
d 21

322 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

one-half per cent., the rate of interest five per cent., the opera-
tion of the plan would be as follows : On the first of January
next there is a sum of 120,000 florins payable on account of in-
terest. It would be at my option to remit the sum at the period
or not. If I remitted it, the contractor would then be entitled
only to one-half per cent, on the 120,000 florins. If I remitted
no part of it, he would be obliged to advance the money at the
time it became due, and would be entitled to one-half per cent,
by way of premium, and at the rate of five per cent, per annum
on the 120,000 florins from the time it was advanced to the time
it was reimbursed, the term of reimbursement not to exceed six
months. If I remitted a part, but not the whole, he would be
obliged to advance the residue, and would be entitled to one-half
per cent, premium on the entire sum, say 120,000 florins, and at
the rate of five per cent, per annum, as before, on the sum actual-
ly advanced, as that should happen to be. And so from period
to period through the year.

I have supposed that the rate of premium and interest which
have been mentioned would obtain the credit desired. And I
will thank yoa, if it can be done, to effect the arrangement to
begin after the 1st of June next. I should not wish it, in the
first instance, to extend beyond a year. Offers of a similar credit
have been intimated to me from London, but as the payments
are to be made from Amsterdam, I deem it preferable to simpli-
fy the business by a direct operation.

I shall endeavor to engage the Bank of the United States to
undertake the payment of our foreign interest, combining it
with a plan for keeping our foreign exchange within certain deter-
minate limits ; a measure which will unite a moderate profit to the
bank, with the advantage to trade of a steady course of exchange,
and to the government of a convenient and economical mode of
remitting its foreign interest. But some little time will be requi-
site to mature men's ideas on the subject.

;Et. 35.] cabinet papers. 323

speech of washington of november 6, 1792.

Draft by Hamilton.

It is an abatement of the satisfaction with which I meet you,
on the present occasion, that in felicitating you on the continu-
ance of the national prosperity generally, I am not able to add
to it information that the Indian hostilities, which have for some
time distressed our northwestern frontier, have terminated.

You will doubtless learn with as much concern as I commu-
nicate it, that reiterated endeavors to effect a pacification have
hitherto issued only in new and outrageous proofs of persevering
hostility on the part of the tribes with whom we are in contest.
An earnest desire to procure tranquillity to the frontier, to stop
the further effusion of blood, to arrest the progress of expense,
to promote the prevalent wish of the country for peace, have led
to strenuous efforts, through various channels, to effect that de-
sirable end, in which neither my own calculations of the event,
nor my scruples which may have occurred concerning the dig-
nity of government, have been permitted to outweigh the im-
portant considerations that have been mentioned.

A detail of the measures which have been adopted, will be
laid before you, from which I persuade myself it will appear to
you, that means as proper and as efficacious as could have been
devised, have been employed. The issue indeed of some of them
is yet depending, but while a favorable one is not to be despaired
of, every antecedent and collateral circumstance discourages an
expectation of it.

In the course of these attempts, some valuable citizens have
fallen victims to their zeal for the public service. A sanction
hitherto respected even among savages, has not been sufficient to
protect from slaughter the messengers of peace. It will, I pre-
sume, be duly considered whether the occasion does not call for
an exercise of liberality towards the families of the deceased.

It must add to your concern to know that in addition to the
continuation of hostile appearances among the tribes north of the

324 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JKt. 35.

Ohio, some threatening symptoms have lately been revived
among some of those south of it. According to the last accounts,
an attack npon the settlements within the territory of the United
States, was meditated on the part of

Further evidence, however, is necessary to ascertain the
reality and extent of the evils ; and in the mean time defensive
precautions only have been permitted.

It is not understood that any breach of treaty or aggression
on the part of the United States or citizens is even alleged, as a
pretext for the spirit of hostility in this quarter. Other causes
for it are indicated, which it would be premature to particularize.

I have reason to believe that every practicable exertion has
been made to be prepared for the alternative of a continuance of the
war in pursuance of the provisions made by law. A large pro-
portion of the troops authorized to be raised have been recruited,
but the number is still incomplete. A particular statement from
the prorjer department on this subject, and in relation to some
other points which have been suggested, will afford more precise
information as a guide to the legislative deliberations, and among
other things will enable Congress to judge whether some addi-
tional stimulus to the recruiting service may not be advisable.

In looking forward to the future expense of the operations
which may be necessary, I derive consolation from the informa-
tion I receive, that, as far as the product of the revenues for the
present year is known at the Treasury, there is a strong prospect
that no additional burdens on the community will be requisite
for the supplies of the ensuing year. This, however, will be
better ascertained in the course of the present session ; and it is
proper to add, that the information proceeds upon the supposi-
tion of no material extension of the spirit of hostility.

I cannot dismiss the subject of Indian affairs without recalling
to your attention the necessity of more adequate provision for
giving energy to the laws throughout our interior frontiers, so as
effectually to restrain depredations upon the Indians, without
which every pacific system must prove abortive ; and also for
enabling the employment of qualified persons to reside as agents
among the Indians, an expedient of material importance in the
successful management of Indian affairs.

Mt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 325

If some efficacious plan could be devised for carrying on trade
with the Indians, upon a scale adequate to their wants, and under
regulations calculated to protect them from extortion and impo-
sition, it would prove hereafter a powerful mean of preserving
peace and a good understanding with them.

The prosperous state of our revenue has been intimated.
This would be still more the case, were it not for the impedi-
ments which in some places continue to embarrass the collection
of the duties on home-made spirits. These impediments have
lessened, and are lessening, as to local extent ; and as applied to
the community at large, the spirit of acquiescence in the law
appears to be progressive.

But symptoms of an increasing opposition having recently
manifested themselves in certain quarters, particularly in one
where the enjojmient of immediate benefits from the common
contributions of the country was to have been expected to fortify
the general sense of respect and duty towards the government
and its laws and the disposition to share in the public burdens, —
I thought a special interposition on my part had become proper
and advisable ; and under this impression I have issued a procla-
mation.

Measures have also been begun for the prosecution of offend-
ers ; and Congress may be assured that nothing within constitu-
tional and legal limits which may depend on me, shall be wanting
to assert and maintain the just authority of the laws. In fulfil-
ling this trust, I shall count entirely upon the full co-operation
of the other departments of government, and upon the zealous
support of all good citizens.

I cannot forbear to bring again into the view of the legisla-
ture the expediency of a revision of the judiciary system. A
representation from the judges of the Supreme Court, which will
be laid before you, points out some of the inconveniences that
are experienced. In the course of the administration of the laws,
considerations arise out of the structure of that system which
tend to impede their execution. As connected with this subject,
some provisions respecting the taking of bail upon processes out
of the courts of the United States, and a supplementary definition

326 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

of offences against the Constitution and laws, and of punishment
for such offences, are presumed to merit particular attention.

The interests of the nation, when well understood, will be
found to coincide with their moral duties. Among these, it is
an important one to cultivate peace and friendship with our
neighbors. To do this, we should make provision for rendering
the justice we must sometimes require from them. I recom-
mend therefore to your consideration, whether the laws of the
Union should not be extended to restrain our citizens from com-
mitting acts of violence within the territories of other nations,
which would be punished were they committed within our own.
And in general, the maintenance of a friendly intercourse with
foreign nations will be presented to your attention by the expira-
tion of the laws for that purpose, which takes place, if not re-
newed, at the close of the present session.

In execution of the authority given by the legislature, meas-
ures have been taken for engaging some artists from abroad to
aid in the establishment of our mint ; others have been employed
at home. Provision has been made of the requisite buildings,
and these are now putting into proper condition for the purposes
of the establishment. There has been also a small beginning in
the coinage of half dollars and cents; the want of small coins in
circulation calling the first attention to them.

The regulation of foreign coins, in correspondency with the
principles of our national coinage, will, I doubt not, be resumed
and completed, being a matter essential to the due operation of
the system, and to order in our pecuniary concerns.

It is represented that the regulations contained in the law
which establishes the post-office, operate in experiment against
the transmission of newspapers to different parts of the country.
Should this, upon due inquiry, be found to be the fact, the legis-
lative wisdom will, doubtless, apply a remedy, under a full con-
viction of the great importance of facilitating the circulation of
political intelligence and information.

Information has been received of the adoption of a constitu-
tion for the State of Kentuckv. An event so interesting to the
happiness of the part of the nation to which it relates, cannot but

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 327

make a correspondent impression. The commnnications con-
cerning it will be laid before yon.

It is proper likewise to inform yon, that, since my last com-
munication on the subject, in further execution of the acts seve-
rally making provision for the public debt, and for the reduction
thereof, three new loans have been effected, one for 3,000,000 of
florins at Antwerp, at four and a half per cent, and per

cent, charges, and two others, each for 3,000,000 of florins, at
Amsterdam, at four per cent., and per cent, charges.

Among the objects to which these funds have been directed to
be applied, the payment of the debts due to certain foreign offi-
cers, according to the provision made for that purpose during
the last session, is included.

House of Representatives :

I entertain a strong hope that the state of the national
finances is now sufficiently matured to enable you to enter upon
systematic and effectual arrangements for the regular redemption
and discharge of the public debt, according to the right which
has been reserved to the government. No measure can be re-
garded as more desirable, whether viewed with an eye to its in-
trinsic importance, or to the general sentiment and wish of the
nation.

Provision likewise is requisite for the reimbursement of the
loan which has been made of the Bank of the United States,
pursuant to section of the act by which it is incorporated.

In fulfilling the public stipulations in this particular, a valuable
saving may, it is expected, be made.

Appropriations for the service of the ensuing year, and for
such extraordinaries as may have occurred, will demand, and I
doubt not, will engage your early attention.

Senate and House of Representatives :

I content myself with recalling your attention generally, to such
objects suggested in my former communications as have not yet
been finally acted upon, and as are not previously particularized.

The results of your joint deliberations hitherto, will, I trust,

328 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

be productive of solid and durable advantages to our constitu-
ents, and which, by conciliating more and more their approba-
tion, may tend to strengthen their attachment to that constitu-
tion of government upon which depend, under Divine Provi-
dence, their union, safety, and prosperity.

Still further to secure these inestimable ends, there is nothing
which can have so powerful a tendency as the careful cultivation
of harmony, combined with a due regard to stability in the pub-
lic councils.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, November 19th, 1792.

Sir:

I have carefully reflected on the application of Mr. Ternant
for an additional supply of money for the use of the colony of
St. Domiugo, on account of the debt due to France, which I re-
gard more and more as presenting a subject extremely delicate
and embarrassing.

Two questions arise : first, as to the ability of the United
States to furnish the money, which is stated at about 326,000
dollars, in addition to the sum remaining of the 400,000 dollars
some time since promised ; second, as to the propriety of doing
it on political considerations.

With regard to ability, I feel little doubt that it will be in
the power of the Treasury to furnish the sum ; yet, circumstanced
as we are, with the possibility of more extensive demands than
at present exist, for exigencies of a very serious nature, I think
it would not be desirable to be bound by a positive stipulation
for the entire amount.

With regard to the propriety of the measure, on political
considerations, more serious difficulties occur.

The late suspension of the king, which is officially communi-
cated, and the subsequent abolition of royalty by the con-
vention, which the newspapers announce with every appear-

jEt. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 329

ance of authenticity, essentially change, for the moment, the
condition of France.

If a restoration of the king should take place, I am of opin-
ion that no payment which might be made in the interval would
be deemed regular or obligatory. The admission of it to our
credit would consequently be considered as matter of discretion,
according to the opinion entertained of its merit and utility. A
payment to the newly constituted power, as a reimbursement, in
course, or in any manner which would subject it to be used in
support of the change, would doubtless be rejected.

An advance, however, to supply the urgent necessities of a
part of the French empire, struggling under the misfortune of
an insurrection, of the nature of that which has for some time
distressed the colony of St. Domingo, and now exposed to the
danger of total ruin by famine, is of a different complexion.
Succors furnished in such a situation, under due limitations,
would be so clearly an act of humanity and friendship, of such
evident utility to the French empire, that no future government
could refuse to allow a credit for them without a disregard of
moderation and equity. But the claim for such credit would
not be of a nature to be regularly and of course valid ; conse-
quently would be liable to be disputed.

The condition in which the colony has lately placed itself, by
espousing the last change which has been made m France, ope-
rates as a serious difficulty in the case, and may be made a
ground of objection to any aid which may be given them.

There is even a question whether there be now any organ of
the French nation which can regularly ask the succor, whether
the commission to Mr. Ternant be not virtually superseded.

It is also an objection (in the view of regularity and validity)
to the supply asked, that the decree of the National Assembly,
on which it is founded, contemplated a negotiation between the
executive power in France and our minister there. The chan-
nel has not been pursued, and no substitute has been provided.
The business wants organization in every sense.

From these premises, I deduce that nothing can be done
without risk to the United States; that, therefore, as little as

330 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

possible ought to be clone ; that whatever may be done, should
be constantly restricted to the single idea of preserving the colony
from destruction by famine ; that, in all communications on the
subject, care should be taken to put it on this footing, and even
to avoid the explicit recognition of any regular authority in any
person.

Under these cautions and restrictions (but not otherwise), I
beg leave to submit it as my opinion, that succors ought to be
granted, notwithstanding the degree of risk which will attend it.
That they should be effected by occasional advances, without
previous stipulation, and with only a general assurance that the
United States, disposed to contribute by friendly offices to the
preservation of an important portion of the French empire, and
to that of French Algiers, from the calamity of famine, will en-
deavor, from time to time, as far as circumstances shall permit,
to afford means of sustenance.

According to a statement of Mr. De la Foret, the provisions
desired to be shipped in the course of November would amount
to 83,000 dollars, including the total supply of fish and oil.
Towards this, he computes the application of 50,000 dollars out
of the remainder of the 400,000 dollars heretofore promised,
which would leave a deficiency of 33,800 dollars. This sum, or in
round numbers 40,000 dollars, can be engaged to be furnished;
and in December, if no future circumstances forbid, a further
sum can be engaged to be supplied, payable at a future short
period

It will be proper, that the most precise measures should be
taken to ascertain from time to time the investment of the
moneys supplied, in purchasing and forwarding provisions from
this country to the colony in question.

It has been heretofore understood that the balance of the sum
some time since stipulated was to be furnished, which according-
ly has been and is doing.

Engagements for supplies have been entered into, upon the
basis of that stipulation, and payments to as great, if not a great-
er amount, are becoming due, in which the citizens of the United
States are materially interested.

^t. 35.] CABINET PAPERS. 331

The caution which is deemed necessary, has reference not
only to the safety of the United States in a pecuniary aspect, but
to the consideration of avoiding a dangerous commitment, which
may ever prove a source of misunderstanding between this
country and the future government of the French nation.

From all that is hitherto known, there is no ground to con-
clude that the governing power, by the last advices, will be of
long duration.

HAMILTON TO SHOET.
Treasury Department, Philadelphia, Nov. 2G, 1792.

Sir:

Since my last of the 5th instant, a triplicate of which is here
inclosed, I have received yours of the 30th of August last.

I have only time to inform you that I have directed the sum
of 1,250,000 florins to be drawn upon our commissioners in Am-
sterdam immediately ; which will leave a sum in their hands
sufficient to face the interest and other payments falling due up
to the 1st of March next, including the debt due to Spain.

This arrangement is made so as not to affect the sum of
1,625,000 florins, which, pursuant to Mr. Morris's stipulation
with the French treasury, was to be paid in France, because it
appears from your letter that it was still possible the payment
might be concluded. This possibility will therefore govern until
I receive further advice on the subject. But should the payment
eventually be stopped, I shall also draw for part, if not the whole
of the sum, from hence.

332 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Nov. 27, 1792.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President. The execution of the process by the marshal himself
is, for many reasons, so important, that it does not appear possi-
ble to dispense with it. If there should be any failure in the
deputy, it would probably furnish a topic of censure and a source
of much embarrassment. The impediment in point of health is
to be regretted, but, it would seem, must be surmounted.

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

Treasury Department, Dec. 26, 1792.

Sir:

I beg leave to suggest, that it would be useful for the consuls
of the United States every where to be possessed of the laws of
the United States respecting commerce and navigation ; giving
it as a standing instruction, to make known, in the best manner
possible, in the ports where they reside, those regulations which
are necessary to be complied with abroad by merchants, and the
owners and masters of ships.

Prohibitions and penalties in some cases exist, as in the 10th
and 13th sections of the act concerning the duties on spirits dis-
tilled within the United States, an ignorance of which is expe-
rienced to be a source of embarrassment, and in some instances
of expense and vexation, to foreign merchants and navigators.

It would also be of use in the operations of the Treasury if
our consuls in France were directed to transmit, by every oppor-
tunity, the state of exchange between their respective places of
residence and London and Amsterdam, and the current difference
between specie and assi gnats. This has reference particularly
to the execution of the 17th section of the act entitled " An act

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 333

for raising a further sum of money for the protection of the
frontiers."

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, &c.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.
Treasury Department, Philadelphia, Dec. 31, 1792.

Sir:

Inclosed is a duplicate of my letter of the 26th ultimo,
mentioning, among other matters, that Treasury drafts had been
directed upon the Commissioners in Amsterdam, to the amount
of 1,250,000 guilders.

It will be proper to inform you, that this sum has been
reduced to 1,237,500 guilders, to be drawn in lieu of the sum
first mentioned; and that a farther sum of 24,750 guilders has
since been directed to be drawn.

I have received your letters down to the 9th of October inclu-
sively ; but time will not now permit me to enter into any dis-
cussion upon the contents.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

I iladelphia, Jan. 1, 1793.

Dear Sir :

After reading the inclosed letter, return it to me. My senti-
ments on the general principle you are acquainted with. With
the one handed under ihis cover, do as shall seem best to you in
the case before us, and let mo know the result ; or, if you choose
it, I am ready to confer further with you on the subject.

I am always your cincere friend, &c.

334 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

JEFFERSON TO WASHINGTON.

1793.

The most prominent suspicion excited by the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury of January 3, 1793, is, that the funds
raised in Europe, and which ought to have been applied to the
payment of our debts there, in order to stop interest, have been
drawn over to this country and lodged in the bank, to extend
the special items and increase the profits of that institution.

To come to the truth of this, it becomes necessary to arrange
the articles of this report into two accounts, viz.

1. An account of funds provided in Europe for which the
Treasury is to be debited, while it is to be credited for the appli-
cation of these funds to such disbursements as they were by law
appropriated to ; the balance remaining on hand there must still
belong to the same purposes.

1st Account reversed with the U. S. of America.

By disbursements for the purposes to which

the loans were appropriated by law,

viz., p. 2, to France .
For other foreign loans,
Commission, &c,
Postage and Advertising,
Interest to Foreign Officers,
To Spain,

Balance stated to be in the hands of the
Commissioners, 407,287,7

Deficit not found in their hands,

810,083,116

1,733,189

19,172

613 88

105,000

680,000

12,621.091

■5,098,920 76

154,44

282,467

446.991,26

7,545,912

jEt.36.] i CABINET PAPERS. 335

With the U. S. of America.

By dep't of State for Barbary and foreign transn's $528,746 00
By paid to T., for St. Domingo, . . . 445,263 83

By paid in purchase of Public Debt, . . 967.82165

7,561,852 15

Bal. remaining in Bank ought to be $1,708,416 72,
but to avoid cavil we admit the $191,316 90
rightly drawn from Europe into the hands of
the Bank, to pay certain foreign officers in Eu-
rope as by contract ; then we must credit
that sum, 191,316 00

The balance in Bank then will be, $1,517,099 84

3.3

The next possible deduction which could be made from this bal-
ance further would be so much of the $967,821 65 paid in
purchase of the public debt as exceeds the surpluses of reve-
nue applicable to that purchase, if there has been no surplus
at all therefrom $1,517,199 00

We must deduct the whole, 967,821 00

Which would leave a balance in the Bank still of 549,276 14

In the Bank there must have been a balance of $39,278 19 before the last
draughts — matters out of question — two further statements are requested.

Statement.

The Treasury debtor in Europe to nett amount of moneys bor-
rowed in Europe, $7,545,972 00

To loan from Bank in America, 2,000,000 00

To surpluses of revenue applicable to public debt,

3d Statement.

To nett amount of moneys borrowed in Europe, . . . . 7,545,912 00
To loan from Bank, 2,000,000 00

9,545,912 00

336 HAMILTON'S WORKS. • [Mt. 36.

By paiements to France, .... $10,083,11609
for other foreign loans, . . 2,537,975 00

$5,089,920 76
By balance stated to be in hands of commissioners, $164,544 00
Deficit there, consequently supposed to be drawn

into bank, 2,282,477 24

$2,446,991 26

$7:545,991 25

By subscription in Bank, $2,000,000 00

By Department of State, $128,766 67

By paid to St. Domingo, 445,263 83

By purchases of public debt, 967,82165

By purchase of foreign officers, .... 191,31690 1,733,16905

$3,733,169 05

By subscription to Bank, $2,000,000 00

By paiements to France, . . . $10,083,116 09

for other foreign loans, .... 2,537,373 00 5,098,620 76

By Department of State, 128,766 76

By paid to St. Domingo 445,263 83

By purchases of public debt, . 967,621 65

By certain foreign officers, 191.31690

Balance in hand in Europe and America, (besides surplus,) . 713,822 19

$9,545,712 00

2. An account of the funds provided in America for the ob-
jects which are entered in this report or may be brought forward
to support it, which are to be debited to the Treasury, while it is
credited for the applications of them to the purposes to which
they have been appropriated by law.

The two following accounts are raised on these principles.

To nett ' out of moneys borrowed in Amsterdam and Ant-
werp, 18,678,000 florins, at 99-40, 7,545,912 dollars.

Note.— We have here admitted that the whole 2,000,000 dollars subscribed to
the bank, might have been paid out of the funds in Europe ; whereas, in truth,
their subscription being on the 1st January, 1792, there should have been paid on
that day the first instalment only of C00,0 dollars, and before any ot ier instal-
ment became due, there was the loan of 2,000,000 from the bank on the same day,

vEt.36.] cabinet papers. 337

which might have "been applied so as to spare the European fund, there would then
have remained 1,500,000 more in Europe to pay off the French debt and stop in-
terest, instead of lying dead in the Bank ; hut waive this because it admits some
cavil.

The Treasury for receipts and debts in America on account.

To deficit in the European fund as per contra, .... $.282,447 24

To loan from the Bank, 2.000,000 00

To surpluses revenue applied to purchase of public debt, (suppose,) 967.821 65

$3,250;268 89

There being certainly then a balance of 549,278.19 dollars, and probably much

more, for 510.000 dollars were made in its favor ; why then were they made 1 But

to put these to the account of the United States with the Bank, from which we

may see whether the state of the accounts were such as to require this payment.

2. A statement of the surpluses of revenue which actually arose, and might have
been applied to the purchase of the public debt ; the amount of these surpluses are
to be added to our balance against the Bank.

HAMILTON" TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, January 24, 1793.

Sir:

As the law appropriating ten thousand dollars for the pur-
pose of defraying the contingent charges of government, (though
in that respect not very precise in its terms,) seems to contem-
plate the rendering an account from time to time of the dis-
bursement of that sum, I have the honor to inclose three copies
of a statement to the end of the year 1792, in order, that if it be
judged expedient, one may be sent to each House of Congress.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

*

Treasury Department, February 1st, 1793*

Sir:

Since my last letter to you, dated the 31st of December last,
of which a duplicate is inclosed, I have received yours of the
27th of October and 2d of November.
D 22

338 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

It was not intended by mine of the 28th of August, that the
account to be rendered by you, should extend to any of the pay-
ments made by the Commissioners on account of the debt to
France, or the foreign loans, or the bills drawn from hence ; but
merely to your particular transactions, your salary, &c, or to
any moneys which may have been drawn from the Commission-
ers, and put under your disposition for ulterior expenditure.

I presume a duplicate of the accounts transmitted by you to
the Secretary of State, will answer the purpose.

With respectful consideration, I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO SHOET.
(private.)

Philadelphia, February 5th, 1793.

Sir:

The spirit of party has grown to maturity sooner in this
country than perhaps was to have been counted upon. You
will see a specimen of it in the inclosed speech of Mr. Giles, a
member from Virginia. The House of Eepresentatives adopted
the resolutions proposed by him, nemine contradicente. The ob-
ject, with a majority, was to confound the attempt, by giving a
free course to investigation.

I send you, also, a printed copy of a letter from me to the
House of Eepresentatives, of yesterday's date, being the first part
of an answer to those resolutions. The statements referred to in
it could not yet be printed ; but lest the thing should pass the
Atlantic, and be made an ill use of, to the prejudice of our
country, I send you the antidote, to be employed or not, as you
may see occasion.

An investigation intended to prejudice me is begun, with re-
spect to the circumstances attending the last payment on account
of the French debt, which, in its progress, may draw your con-

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 339

duct into question. I think, however, you need be under no
anxiety for the result. Your hesitations, at a certain stage, were
so natural, and your reasons so weighty for them, that they will
give little handle against you, besides the coincidence in opinion
here about the expediency of a suspension of payment. The
popular tide in this country is strong in favor of the last revolu-
tion in France ; and there are many who go, of course, with that
tide, and endeavor always to turn it to account. For my own
part, I content myself with praying most sincerely that it may
issue in the real advantage and happiness of the nation.

CABINET OPINION.

February 25th, 1793.

The President desires the opinions of the heads of the three
Departments and of the Attorney-General on the following ques-
tions, to wit :

Mr. Ternant having applied for money equivalent to three
millions of livres, to be furnished on account of our debt to
France, at the request of the Executive of that country, which
sum is to be laid out in provisions within the United States, to
be sent to France ; shall the money be furnished ?

The Secretary of the Treasury stated it as his opinion, that
making liberal allowance for the depreciation of assignats (no
rule of liquidation having been yet fixed), a sum of about
318,000 dollars may not exceed the arrearages equitably due to
France to the end of 1792, and that the whole sum asked for
may be furnished within periods capable of answering the
purpose of Mr. Ternant's application, without a derangement of
the Treasury.

Thereupon the Secretaries of State and War and the Attor-
ney-General are of opinion that the whole sum asked for by Mr.
Ternant ought to be furnished : the Secretary of the Treasury is

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

of opinion that the supply ought not to exceed the above-men-
tioned sum of 318,000 dollars.

Th. Jefferson,
Alexander Hamilton,
H. Knox,
Edm. Kandolph,

CABINET OPINION.

February 25, 1793.

The President having required the attendance of the heads
of the three Departments and of the Attorney-General at his
house, on Monday, the 25th February, 1793, the following ques-
tions were proposed and answers given :

The Governor of Canada having refused to let us obtain pro-
visions from that province, or to pass them along the water com-
munication to the place of treaty with the Indians, and the
Indians having refused to let them pass peaceably along what
they call the Bloody Path, the Governor of Canada at the same
time proposing to furnish the whole provisions necessary — ought
the treaty to proceed?

Answer, unanimously — It ought to proceed.
Have the Executive, or the Executive and Senate together,
authority to relinquish to the Indians the right of soil of any
part of the lands north of the Ohio, which has been validly ob-
tained by former treaties ?

The Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of War, and At-
torney-General, are of opinion that the Executive and Senate
have such authority; provided that no grants or reserves to
States be thereby infringed. The Secretary of State is of opin-
ion vhey have no such authority to relinquish.

Will it be expedient to make such relinquishment, if essential
to peace, provided it do not include any lands sold or reserved
for special purposes (the reservations for trading places excepted)?

jE-r.ae.] CABINET PAPERS. 341

The Secretary of State is of opinion that the Executive and
Senate have authority to stipulate with the Indians, and that if
essential to peace it will be expedient to stipulate that we will
not settle any lands between those already sold or reserved for
special purposes and the lines heretofore validly established with
the Indians.

Whether the Senate shall be previously consulted on this
point ?

The opinion unanimously is, that it will be better not to con-
sult them previously.

Th. Jefferson,
A. Hamilton,
Henry Knox,
Edmund Randolph.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON AND KNOX.

February 27, 1793.

Sir:

As the day is near at hand when the President elect is to
take the oath of qualification, and no mode is pointed out by the
Constitution or by law, I could wish that you, Mr. Jefferson
{Gen. Knox or Col. Hamilton), and Mr. Randolph, could meet
to-morrow morning, at any place which you may fix between
yourselves, and communicate to me the result of your opinions
as to time, place, and manner of qualification.

George Washington.

P. S. Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Randolph have suggested the
idea of meeting at the War Office, at nine o1 clock to-morrow
morning. If this is convenient and agreeable to you, you will be
there accordingly ; if otherwise, you will be so good as to let me
know.

342 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

CABINET OPINION.

Feb. 27, 1793.
If the qualification is to be in private, T. J., A. H., H. K.,
and E. E. are of opinion that Mr. Cushing should administer the
oath to the President at his own house, where such officers, or
others, as he may notify, will attend. T. J. and A H. think that
it ought to be in private.

CABINET OPINION.

March 1, 1793.
It is our opinion,

1. That the President ought to take the oath in public.

2. That the time be on Monday next, at twelve o'clock in the
forenoon.

3. That the place be the Senate chamber.

4. That the Marshal of the district inform the Yice-President,
that the Senate chamber, being the usual place of the President's
public acts, is supposed to be the best place for taking the oath,
and that it is wished that the chamber be open.

5. That it may be informally notified to the Yice-President,
Governor, and Foreign Ministers, that the oath is to be taken at
the time and place above mentioned.

6. That Mr. Cushing be requested to attend, and administer
the oath.

7. That the President go without form, attended by such

gentlemen as he may choose, and return without form, except

that he be preceded by the Marshal.

H. Knox.

Edm. Kandolph.

My opinion given yesterday was founded upon prudential
considerations of the moment ; though I think it right, in the
abstract, to give publicity to the act in question. If this is to be

;Et. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 443

done on the present occasion, I see no objection to the above

form. I am not, however, satisfied that prudential considerations

are not equally balanced.

A. Hamilton.

cabinet OPINION.

March 2, 1793.

The President communicated to the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of War, and the Attor-
ney-General of the United States, a letter from William S. Smith,
Esq., of the 28th of February past, to the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, with sundry papers — No. 1, 2, and 3 and 4 relating to a
negotiation for changing the form of the debt to France ; and
required their opinion what answer should be returned to the
application.

The opinion unanimously is, that the Secretary of the Treas-
ury shall inform Mr. Smith that the government of the United
States have made engaged payments to France to the extent
which is at present consistent with their arrangements ; and do
not judge it advisable to take any measures on the subject of his

application.

Th. Jefferson.

Alex. Hamilton.

H. Knox.

Edm. Eandolph.

CABINET OPINION.

March 10, 1793.

At a meeting of the heads of departments and the Attorney-
General at the President's, on the 10th day of March, 1793,

The intelligence from Kentucky and the territory northwest
of the Ohio was laid before them ; whereupon it was advised,

1. That a proclamation issue against the expeditions under-

344 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

stood to be prepared in Kentucky for the invasion of the Spanish
dominions.

2. That a representation be made to the Governor of Ken-
tucky, upon the subject of his conduct, and giving information,
under proper guards, of the steps which have been taken by
government as to the Mississippi.

3. That a representation be also made to Congress ; and

4. That General "Wayne be instructed to post, if compatible
with his other operations, a body of troops at Massae, in order to
intercept by force, if necessary, any body of men which may
descend the river for the purpose of the invasion aforesaid.
From this fourth opinion the Secretary of State dissents.

Alex. Hamilton.
Edm. Kandolph.
H. Knox.
¥m. Bradford.

RANDOLPH TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, March. 11th, 1793.

Sir:

The minutes which were made yesterday, at the conference
in your room, did not permit an insertion of the reasons upon
which my dissent from the fourth proposition was founded. As
I shall always contend for what I conceive to be the consti-
tutional and legal powers of the government, so I beg leave to
request, upon this truly important subject, that you will suf-
fer this letter to be filed away, with the paper containing the
opinions.

My reasons against the instruction, advised to be given to
General Wajme, to post a body of regular troops at Massac, and
by force, if necessary, to prevent the party of Kentucky citi-
zens who are supposed to meditate an invasion of the Spanish
dominions, from proceeding, are the following :

1. Those troops were raised, and destined by law, exclusively
for other purposes.

Mt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 345

2. The law of the land, and not an army, is to be resorted
to for the punishment of citizens of the United States who may
be charged with crimes. Eegular proof, too, ought to precede
punishment.

3. The sense of a committee, at least, of the Senate, appears
to be the same ; because a bill is actually depending before
them for giving the power to the President to use military force
on such occasions. This would not have been necessary, if the
power existed already.

4. The present case is not an invasion from a foreign nation,
in the grammatical, legal, or constitutional import.

5. If it Avere an insurrection, the President is restricted, by
law of May 2, 1792, from interposing even with militia, except
upon the application of the legislature or executive of Ken-
tucky.

6. The marshals and their deputies have the same power as
sheriffs to call out the " posse comitatus"

7. If a combination to obstruct the laws be too powerful, the
President cannot draw forth even the militia, but upon a notifi-
cation from a judge of the Supreme or District Courts.

8. If the blood of the citizens of Kentucky should be shed,
under the order now advised, it will, I fear, terminate in a revolt
of that country, and a separation from the Union ; and,

9. The probability is, that the attempt which was begun is
at an end for the present, and it is, at any rate, better to wait
and see what power Congress may give, than to hazard so doubt-
ful an one on so critical an occasion.

HAMILTON TO SHORT.
Treasury Department, Philadelphia, March 15th, 1793.

Sir:

You will find inclosed a duplicate of a letter from me to you,
of the 1st of February, and a copy of one from me, of this date,
to our bankers at Amsterdam.

346 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

I was not insensible to the judicious views which led you to
desire that the United States might not place themselves in a
situation to be obliged to retrograde with regard to the rate of
interest; and I shall be sorry if the arrangements made here
have interefered with the execution of them, as appears to be
now probable. An expectation of a more favorable state of the
market, and a reluctance to incur a further loss of interest on the
moneys which remained on hand, of former loans, has led to the
course which has been pursued.

The present price of bills enables me to invest moneys for
the intended remittance, with a gain of about seven per cent.,
which will be a partial indemnification for other disadvantages.

The inclosed extract from the minutes of the House of Kep-
resentatives, will inform you of the result of the affair about
which I wrote to you, not long since, by way of England. 'Tis
to be lamented that already the spirit of party has made so great
a progress in our infant republic ; but it is, at the same time, a
source of congratulation that it, as yet, has its bounds, and that
there are many who will only go a certain length in compliance
with its dictates.

HAMILTON TO MESSRS. W. AND J. WILLINK, N. AND G. VAN
STAPHORST AND HUBBARD, BANKERS, AMSTERDAM.

Treasury Department, Philadelphia, March 15, 1793.

Gentlemen :

I received, two days since, the letter which you did me the
honor to write me of the 14th of January last, inclosing the copy
of one of the same date to Mr. Short.

I regret the state of things as there exhibited ; and my re-
gret will be increased, if circumstances shall have rendered it
necessary to allow the high rate of five per cent, for the contem-
plated loan. I hope, nevertheless, a better issue from your zeal
and intelligent exertions ; and, in time to come, every effort
must be made here to avoid a like necessity. If the thing were
still in my power, I should decline the loan altogether.

^t. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 347

Lest a disappointment should attend the obtaining of a loan,
I have taken measures to arrest, in your hands, 495,000 guilders,
of the sum which I last advised you would be drawn for. The
sale having been made to the Bank of the United States, has left
this expedient in my power. I shall, in addition to this, cause
to be remitted to you, between this time and the third of next
month, — when the British packet sails, — the further sum of
975,000 guilders, in bills upon London and Amsterdam; unless
I should, in the mean time, hear of a loan having been under-
taken. I cannot doubt that it will be, at all events, in your
power to make temporary arrangements to face the exigency,
should any delays ensue, which may prevent these means being
in measure for the demand.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, March 18, 1793.

The Secretary of the Treasury respectfully makes the follow-
ing Report to the President of the United States :

The act, entitled "An act making appropriations for the sup-
port of government for the year one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-three," empowers the President to borrow for the pur-
poses therein specified, any sum or sums, not exceeding in the
whole eight hundred thousand dollars, at a rate of interest not
exceeding five per centum per annum, and reimbursable at the
pleasure of the United States.

In order to enable the President to judge how soon, and to
what extent it will be necessary to carry the above mentioned
power into execution, the following statements and facts are sub-
mitted : —

1st. Statement No. 1, being the copy of one lately reported
to the House of Representatives, which shows the probable situ-
ation of the public cash, from the last of December, 1792, to the

348 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

1st of April, 1793 ; leaving a balance in the Treasury of 664,180
dollars and 89 cents.

2d. Statement No. 2, showing the probable situation of the
account between the United States and their bankers at Amster-
dam, on the first of the present month, on the supposition of a
full payment of the Spanish debt; which statement is deduced
from an account of the bankers, dated the 1st of January, 1793,
and exhibits a balance against the United States of 72,265 florins
or guilders. Besides this balance, requiring a provision, there
will, on the first of June next, be payable at Amsterdam,
On account of the principal of the Dutch loans, 1,000,000

" for interest on do. . . 470,000

Guilders, 1,470,000
which being added to the above balance of 72,265 guilders, at
the rate of 36T4T ninetieths per guilder, will be equal to 623,137
dollars and 37 cents.

There are competent powers and instructions in Holland for
making a further loan, out of which the payment of the above
sum might be effected ; but it is problematical whether one can
be obtained upon admissible terms, in time to answer the purpose.

That the public credit may not be in jeopardy of suffering a
wound, it is necessary to remit the whole, or the greatest part of
the requisite sums, without delay. Bills are now purchasing
with a view to this object ; the rate of exchanges, which is at
present more than seven per cent, below par, will afford an in-
demnification for the suspension of this fund from employment,
in case it should turn out in the event that a loan has been
procured.

Deducting this sum from the balance, as per Statement No. 1,
there would remain only 41,053 dollars and 52 cents ; which
would be much too small a sum to be in the Treasury, if all the
demands for which it is liable, as expressed in the said state-
ment, were likely to fall upon it within the period.

But, 'tis probable some of the calculated disbursements will
not take place within the present quarter, particularly a part of
the sums due to foreign officers — part of the expenditure for the

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 349

War Department — the sum stated for the expenses of the Indian
treaty, which, together, may amount to about 300,000 dollars ;
to this may likewise be added about 150,000 dollars of the in-
terest on the public debt, of which the greatest part will be
included in the sum to be paid the 1st of June in Holland, and
which is comprehended in the sum stated as necessary to be
remitted.

This circumstance will enable the Treasury to be in measure
for the payments, which will accrue in the succeeding quarter,
on account of the debt due to France, and, together with the
current receipts, to keep pace with other demands in the early
part of that quarter.

But the aid of a loan, during this second quarter, will proba-
bly be indispensable. The suspended disbursements of the first
quarter ought to be calculated upon, as falling within the
second ; and the Treasury ought, at all events, to be prepared
for them.

Statement ISTo. 3 shows the probable state of the public cash
during the second quarter — that is, from the last of March to the
1st of July, showing a balance against the Treasury of 672,023
dollars and 26 cents. This balance ought to be provided for in
due time by a loan. And it will appear, from Statement No.
4, that the same auxiliary will be necessary to the operations of
the third quarter of the present year.

In the fourth quarter, the receipts may be expected to be
amply sufficient, so as to afford a surplus towards reimbursing
the loan of the last year.

It is submitted, as the result of the foregoing data, that im-
mediate measures be taken to engage of the Bank the loan of the
800,000 dollars authorized by the act herein before mentioned.

It will be desirable to have the whole sum immediately
passed to the credit of the United States, upon an agreement
that none of it shall be actually called for till the 1st of June, and
that it shall be payable in four equal monthly instalments, each
to bear interest from the time stipulated for the payment.

The reason of endeavoring to have the whole sum immedi-
ately carried to the credit of the Treasury, is the better to con-

350 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

form to the strict theory of appropriations, which supposes that
there is always a representative in the Treasury for any sums
which may have come into it, and may not have been applied
according to their legal destination.

By making the instalments commence only with the first of
June, there would be a deficiency in the Treasury, if all the cal-
culated disbursements were to take place within the time ; but
this seldom or never happens ; and should a deficiency be ex-
perienced, it may safely be counted upon that the Bank would
accelerate its latter instalments. And, as it may turn out that
a loan may have been procured in Europe, it seems to be the
most prudent mean to postpone the commencement of the in-
stalments to the 1st of June, as proposed.

If the Bank will, as heretofore, leave it in the discretion of
the Treasury to call for the money as wanted, which will be at-
tempted, it will obviate all difficulty ; but it is hardly to be ex-
pected they will repeat a practice so little provident on their
part.

All which is respectfully submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,

/Secretary of the Treasury.

No. I.

Probable state of cash from the last of December, 1792, to the first of

April, 1793.
Dr.

To balance of cash in the Treasury, per Statement A, . . . $783,444 51

" cash in the Bank on account of foreign bills, not passed to credit

of the Treasurer, per Statement A B, .... 605,883 08

" amount of proceeds of ditto deposited with the Bank of North

America, 177,998 80

" proceeds of Amsterdam bills expected to be received by the first

April, 614,593 02

" cash in the hands of Collectors at the end of 1792, per Ab-
stract D, 151,851 25

" sums expected to be received during the present quarter on ac-
count of duties prior to 1793, 918,254 82

jEt.36.] cabinet papers. 351

To sum which may be received on account of duties of the current

quarter, • . 10.000 00

" excess of dividend beyond the interest on the stock of the gov-
ernment in the Bank of the United States for the last half
year, . 20,000 00

3,282,025 48

Contra. Cr.

By amount of warrants which were drawn prior to the first of Janu-
ary, 1793, and not paid by the Treasurer* .... $42,136 33
" sums for which warrants have issued subsequent to the year

1792, 549,640 91

" sums which were payable to foreign officers on

the 31st December last, .... $172,96211

From which deduct payments made since that peri-
od, included in the amount above stated, of war-
rants issued subsequent to the year 1792, . . 9,985 27 162,976 84
By sums payable on account of the debt to France to the first of

April inclusively, 165,000 00

" arrears for the War Department, 50,000 00

" other arrears to the end of 1792, 50.000 00

" quarter's interest on the public debt, 712,298 68

" quarter part of the expenditure for the current service, . . 404,196 27
" sum requisite for the purposes of Indian treaty, . . . 75,000 00

" sum advanced by the Bank of North America, included in the

deposit of the proceeds of bills per contra, .... 156,595 56
" sum to be issued from the Treasury to enable the Secretary of
State to pay for the bills furnished to him for the purpose of
the third section of the act of last session, making certain

appropriations therein specified, 50,000 00

" first instalment of $2,000,000 due to the Bank of the United

States, 200.000 00

" balance, 664,180 89

3,282,025 48
* These, of course, did not come into his account for the last quarter, 1792.

352 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

No. II.

W. & J. Willinh, iV. & J. Van Staphorst and Hubbard, Amsterdam,

1793. Dr.

Jan. 1st. To balance in their hands, ...... 1,744,750

" residue of the last three millions loan, to be received, . 360,000
" balance for which the Commissioners will be in advance

on the 1st March, 1793, 72,265

Fls. 2,177,015
Contra. Cr.

1793.

By premium on the residue of the three millions loan, at 5

per cent., 18,000

" interest due to foreign officers, . . . , 105.000

Feb. 1st. " interest on three millions, at 5 per cent., . r . 150.000

;c do. on two millions, at 4 per cent., . . 80.000

" premium on do., ....... 100.000

" gratuity on do., at 8 per cent., 28,000

March 1st. " interest on two and a half millions, 5 per cent., . 125.000

" commission on paying interest 355,000 flor's, 1 per cent., 3,550

1792.

Nov. 30. " draughts of the Treasurer, 1,237,500

Dec. 28. " ditto, 24,750

'• remittances to be made to Spain, estimated fls., 680 000

" on account of which have been remitted, 374,785, 305.215

flos. 2,177.015

No. III.

Probable state of cash from the 1st of April to the 1st of July, 1793.

Dr.

To balance of cash, per Statement No. 1. 664,180 89

To amount of sums expected to be received during the quarter on
account of the duties of imports and tonnage, viz. :

Per returns to 7th March, 1793. . . 747,69196

Per estimate in the cases of deficient returns, 200,000 00 947,691 96
To amount of sums expected to be received on account of duties

on spirits distilled within the United States, .... 100,000 00
To balance against the Treasury to be supplied by loan, . . 672,023 26

,383,896 11

Mt.36.] CABINET PAPERS. 353

Contra. Cr.

By this sum invested and expected to be invested towards the
payments which will become due in Holland on the 1st of June

next, 623,137 37

By this sum to complete the advances for St. Domingo, . . 149,763 79

By this sum promised in addition to 100,000 dollars, payable on the
1st of April, and credited in statement No. 1 for supplies to

France, 444,500 00

By amount of one quarter's interest, 712.298 68

By one quarter of the current expenditure for 1793, . . . 404,196 27
By probable demands for arrears of appropriations antecedent to

1793, 50,000 00

$2,383,896 11

No. IY.
Probable state of cash from the 1st of July to the 1st of October, 1793.

Dr.

To amount of sums expected to be received this quarter on
account of imports and tonnage, per return to the 7th
'of March, DIs. 391,047 67

Ditto per estimate, 200.000 00 591,047 67

To amount of sums expected to be received on account of spirits

distilled within the United States, 200,000 00

To balance ag;inst the Treasury, 325,447 28

1,116,494 95

Contra. Cr.

By amount of one quarter's interest, 712,298 68

By one quarter of the current expenditure for 1793, . . 404,196 27

1,116,494 95

D 23

354 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

JEFFERSON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia. March 27, 1793.

Sir:

In compliance with the desire you expressed, I shall endeavor
to give you the view I had of the destination of the loan of three
millions of florins obtained by our bankers in Amsterdam, pre-
vious to the acts of the 4th and 12th of August, 1790, when it
was proposed to adopt it under those acts. I am encouraged to
do this by the degree of certainty with which I can do it, hap-
pening to possess an official paper whereon I had committed to
writing some thoughts on the subject, at the time, that is to say,
on the 26th of August, 1790.

The general plan presented to view, according to my compre-
hension of it, in your report and draft of instructions, was, first,
to borrow, on proper terms, such a sum of money as might an-
swer all demands for principal and interest of the foreign debt
due to the end of 1791 ; second, to consider two of the three
millions of florins already borrowed, as if borrowed under the
act of August 4, and so far an execution of the operation before
mentioned ; third, to consider the third million of florins so bor-
rowed, as if borrowed under the act of the 12th of August, and
so far an execution of the powers given to the President to bor-
row two millions of dollars for the purchase of the public debt.
I remember that the million of dollars surplus of the public rev-
enues, appropriated to the purchase of the public debt, appeared
to me sufficient for that purpose here, for probably a considerable
time. I thought, therefore, if any part of the three millions of
florins were to be placed under the act of the 12th of August,
that it should rather be employed in purchasing our foreign paper
at the market of Amsterdam. I had myself observed the differ-
ent degrees of estimation in which the paper of different coun-
tries was held at that market, and wishing that our credit there
might always be of the first order, I thought a moderate sum
kept in readiness there, to buy up any of our foreign paper,
whenever it should be offered below par, would keep it constant-

Srs. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 355

ly to that mark, and thereby establish for us a sound credit,
where, of all places in the world, it would be most important to
have it

The subject however not being within my department, and
therefore having no occasion afterwards to pay attention to it, it
went out of nry mind altogether, till the late inquiries brought
it forward again. On reading the President's instructions of
August 28, 1790 (two days later than the paper before mention-
ed), as printed in your report of February 13, 1793, in the form
in which they were given to you, I observed that he had therein
neither confirmed your sentiment of employing a part of the
money here, nor mine of doing it there, in purchases of the public
debt ; but had directed the application of the whole to the, foreign-
debt; and I inferred that he had done this on full and
deliberation, well knowing he would have time enough to weigh
the merits of the two opinions before the million of dollars would
be exhausted here, or the loans for the foreign debt would over-
run their legal measure tliere. In this inference, however, I might
be mistaken ; but I cannot be in the fact that these instructions
gave a sanction to neither opinion.

I have thus, sir, stated to you the view I had of this subject
in 1790, and I have done it because you desired it I did not
take it up then as a volunteer, nor should now have taken the
trouble of recurring to it, but at your request, as it is one in
which I am not particularly concerned, which I never had either
the time or inclination to investigate, and on which my opinion
is of no importance.

I have the honor to be with respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, April 6, 1793.

Sir:

The ship John Buckley \s just arrived here from Lisbon, which
place she left on the 23d of February.

356 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

The Messrs. Wains, a respectable mercantile house here, have
received a letter from Mr. John Buckley, a respectable merchant
of Lisbon, after whom the ship is named, of which the following
is an extract :

" By letters from France, by this day's post, we find that an
embargo took place there the 2d instant, on all English, Eus-
sian, and Dutch vessels, which is certainly the prelude of war.'7
This letter is dated the 22d of February.

Messrs. Wains in addition inform , that on the 23d of

February, the moment the ship was getting under way, Mr.
Buckley came on board with a letter from Mr. Fenwick, of
Bourdeaux, informing him that war had been declared by France
against England, Eussia, and Holland. The foregoing particulars
I have directly from the Wains.

The report in the city is, that the war was declared on the
8th of February.

Combining this with the letter of Lord Grenville to Mr.
Chauvelen, requiring his departure, and the King's Message to
the House of Commons, founded upon — there seems to be no
room for doubt of the existence of war.

P. S. I this instant learn that there are English papers in
town, by way of St. Yincent's, which mention that on the 8th of
February the late Queen of France was also put to death, after a
trial and condemnation.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, April 8th, 1793.

Sir:

The papers of to-day, which, I take it for granted, are for-
warded to you, will inform you of a confirmation of the war be-
tween France, England and Holland, and of such other leading
particulars as are contained in the English papers brought by the
packet.

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 357

The object of this letter is merely to apprise you that the
whole current of commercial intelligence, which comes down to the
11th of February, indicates thus far an unexceptionable conduct
on the part of the British government towards the vessels of the
United States.

The information is received here with very great satisfaction,
as favorable to a continuance of peace, the desire of which may
be said to be both universal and ardent.

With the highest respect and the truest attachment, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 12th April, 1793.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 7th was brought to me by the last post
War having actually commenced between France and Great
Britain, it behooves the government of this country to use every
means in its power to prevent the citizens thereof from embroiling
us with either of those powers, by endeavoring to maintain a strict
neutral ity. I therefore require that you will give the subject
mature consideration, that such measures as shall be deemed
most likely to effect this desirable purpose may be adopted with-
out delay; for I have understood that vessels are already desig-
nated as privateers, and arc preparing accordingly-
Such other measures as may be necessary for us to pursue
against events which it may not be in our power to avoid or
control, you will also think of, and lay them before me on my
.arrival in Philadelphia, for which place I shall set out to-morrow,
but will leave it to the advices which I may receive to-night
by the post to determine whether it is to be by the most direct
£oute, or by the one I proposed to come, that is, by Reading.
With yery great esteem and regard, I am, &c.

358 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

SUBSTANCE OF THE ANSWER PROPOSED TO THE LETTER OF THE

FRENCH MINISTER, OF APRIL 13.

Draft by Jefferson.

April 18th, 1793.
Before the new government of France Lad time to attend to
the things on this side of the Atlantic, and to provide a deposit of
money for their purposes here, there was a necessity that we,
as their friends and debtors, should keep their affairs from suf-
fering, by furnishing money for urgent purposes. This obliged
us to take on ourselves to judge of the purpose, because, on the
soundness of that, we were to depend for our justification ; hence
we furnished moneys for their colonies and their agents here —
justified, in our own opinion, by the importance and necessity of
the case. But that necessity is now at an end. The govern-
ment has established a deposit of money in the hands of their
minister here. We have nothing now to do but to furnish the
money, for which the order is our direction. We are no longer
to look into the purposes to which it is to be applied. Their
minister is to be judge of these, and to pay the money to whom
and for what he pleases.

If it be urged that they have appropriated all the money we
are advancing to another object ; that he is not authorized to
divert any of it to any other purpose, and therefore needs a fur-
ther sum ; it may be answered, that it will not lessen the stretch
of authority to add an unauthorized payment by us, to an un-
authorized application by him ; and that it seems fitter that he
should exercise a discretion over their appropriations, standing
as he does in a place of confidence, authority, and responsibility,
than we who are strangers and unamenable to them. Private
reasons of weight, which need not be expressed to the minister,
that these applications make us, in some sort, a board of auditors
for French accounts, and subject our payments to question.

That it is known to us, that the present minister, not having
the confidence of his government, is replaced by another, and
consequently the authority of his application is lessened. That

iEx.36.] CABINET PAPERS. 359

it is rather probable the whole establishment of their counsels
here will be suppressed, as useless and expensive "to them, and
rather vexatious to us.

Th. Jefferson.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 18th, 1793.

Sir:

The posture of affairs in Europe, particularly between France
and Great Britain, places the United States in a delicate situa-
tion, and requires much consideration as to the measures which
it will be proper for them to observe in the war between those
powers. With a view to forming a general plan of conduct for
the Executive, I have stated and inclosed sundry questions, to
be considered preparatory to a meeting at my house to-morrow,
where I shall expect to see you at nine o'clock, and to receive
the result of your reflections thereon.

Question 1. — Shall a proclamation issue for the purpose of
Dreventing interferences of the citizens of the United States in
the war between France and Great Britain, &c. ? Shall it con-
tain a declaration of neutrality or not? What shall it contain?

Question 2. — Shall a minister from the republic of France be
received ?

Question 3. — If received, shall it be absolutely, or with quali-
fications ; and if with qualifications, of what kind ?

Question 4. — Are the United States obliged, by good faith,
to consider the treaties heretofore made with France, as apply-
ing to the present situation of the parties ? May they either re-
nounce them, or hold them suspended till the government of
France shall be established?

Question 5. — If they have the right, is it expedient to do
either, and which ?

360 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 36.

Question 6. — If they have an option, would it be a breach of
neutrality to consider the treaties still in operation ?

Question 7. — If the treaties are to be considered as now in
operation, is the guarantee in the treaty of alliance applicable to
a defensive war only, or to war either offensive or defensive ?

Question 8. — Does the war in which France is engaged, ap-
pear to be offensive or defensive on her part, or of a mixed and
equivocal character ?

Question 9. — If of a mixed and equivocal character, does the
guarantee, in any event, apply to such a war ?

Question 10. — What is the effect of a guarantee, such as that
to be found in the treaty of alliance between the United States
and France ?

Question 11. — Does any article in either of the treaties pre-
vent ships of war, other than privateers, of the powers opposed
to France, from coming into the ports of the United States, to
act as convoys to their own merchantmen ? or does it lay other
restraints upon them, more than would apply to the ships of
war of France ?

Question 12. — Should the future regent of France send a min-
ister to the United States, ought he to be received ?

Question 13. — Is it necessary or advisable to call together the

two Houses of Congress, with a view to the present posture of

European affairs ? If it is, what should be the particular objects

of such a call ?

Geo. Washington.

CABINET OPINION.

April 19th, 1793.
At a meeting of the Heads of Departments, and the Attorney-
General, at the President's, April 19th, 1793, to consider the
foregoing questions proposed by the President, it was determined
by all, on the first question, that a proclamation shall issue, for-
bidding our citizens to take part in any hostilities on the seas,

,Et. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 361

with or against an}?- of the belligerent powers ; and warning
them against carrying to any such powers, any of those articles
deemed contraband, according to the modern usage of nations ;
and enjoining them from all acts and proceedings inconsistent
with the duties of a friendly nation towards those at war.

On the second question, " Shall a minister from the republic
of France be received?" It was unanimously agreed that he shall
be received.

The remaining questions were postponed for further consi-
deration.

April 22, 1793.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas it appears that a state of war exists between Aus-
tria, Prussia, Sardinia, Great Britain, and the United Nether-
lands, of the one part, and France on the other; and the duty
and interest of the United States require, that they should with
sincerity and good faith adopt and pursue a conduct friendly
and impartial toward belligerent powers :

I have therefore thought fit by these presents to declare the
disposition of the United States to observe the conduct aforesaid
toward those powers respectively, and to exhort and warn the
citizens of the United States carefully to avoid all acts and pro-
ceedings whatsoever, which may in any manner tend to contra-
vene such disposition.

And I do hereby also make known, that whosoever of the
citizens of the United States shall render himself liable to pun-
ishment or forfeiture under the law of nations, by committing,
aiding, or abetting hostilities against any of the said powers, or
by carrying to any of them those articles which are deemed con-
traband by the modem usage of nations, will not receive the
protection of the United States against such punishment or for-

362 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

feiture : and further, that I have given instructions to those offi-
cers, to whom it belongs, to cause prosecutions to be instituted
against all persons who shall, within the cognizance of the courts
of the United States, violate the law of nations, with respect to
the powers at war, or any of them.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the United
States of America to be affixed to these presents, and signed the
same with my hand.

Done at the city of Philadelphia, the twenty-second day of
April, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three, and of the
independence of the United States of America the seventeenth.

George Washington.

By the President.

Th. Jefferson.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

April, 1793.
Question the Third proposed by the President of the United States.
— " If a minister from the republic of France shall be received,
shall it be absolutely, or with qualifications — and if with qualifi-
cations, of what kind?"

Answer.

It is conceived to be advisable that the reception of the ex-
pected minister from the republic of France should be qualified
by a previous declaration, substantially to this effect : " That the
government of the United States, uniformly entertaining cordial
wishes for the happiness of the French nation, and disposed to
maintain an amicable communication and intercourse, uninter-
rupted by political vicissitudes, does not hesitate to receive him
in the character which his credentials import ; yet, considering
the origin, course, and circumstances of the relations originally
contracted between the two countries, and the existing position
of the affairs of France, it is deemed advisable and proper on the
part of the United States, to reserve to future consideration and

jEt. 36.] cabinet papers. 363

discussion the question — whether the operation of the treaties,
by which those relations were formed, ought not to be deemed
temporarily and provisionally suspended ; and under this impres-
sion, it is thought due to a spirit of candid and friendly procedure
to apprise him beforehand of the intention to reserve that ques-
tion, lest silence on the point should occasion misconstruction."

The grounds of this opinion are as follow :

The treaties between the United States and France were
made with His Most Christian Majesty, his heirs and successors.
The government of France, which existed at the time those trea-
ties were made, gave way, in the first instance, to a new constitu-
tion, formed by the representatives of the nation, and accepted
by the king, which went into regular operation. Of a sudden,
a tumultuous rising took place. The king was seized, impri-
soned, and declared to be suspended by the authority of the
National Assembly ; a body delegated to exercise the legislative
functions of the already established government — in no shape
authorized to divest any other of the constituted authorities of
its legal capacities or powers. So far, then, what was done was
a manifest assumption of power.

To justify it, it is alleged to have been necessary for the
safety of the nation, to prevent the success of a counter-revolution
meditated or patronized by the king.

On the other side, it is affirmed that the whole transaction
was merely the execution of a plan which had been for some
time projected, and had been gradually ripening, to bring about
an abolition of the royalty and the establishment of a republican
government.

No satisfactory proof is known to have been produced to fix
upon the king the charges which have been brought against him.

On the other hand, declarations have escaped from characters
who took a lead in the measure of suppressing the royalty,
which seem to amount to a tacit acknowledgment, that the
events of the 10th of August were the result of a premeditated
plan of the republican party, to get rid of the monarchical power,
rather than a necessary counteraction of mischievous designs on
the part of the king.

364 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

Mr. De Malsherbes, one of the counsel of the king, makes
this striking reflection on the point.

The events of the 10th of August were followed on the 2d
and 3d of September with the massacre of a great number of
persons in different parts of France, including several distin-
guished individuals, who were known to be attached either to
the ancient government, or to the constitution which had suc-
ceeded to it.

The suspension of the king was accompanied by a call upon
the primary assemblies to depute persons to represent them in a
convention, in order to the taking of such measures as the exi-
gency of the conjuncture might require.

Under circumstances not free from precipitation, violence
and awe, deputies to a national convention were chosen. They
assembled on the at Paris, and on the very day

of their meeting decreed the abolition of royalty.

They proceeded in the next place to organize a temporary
provisional government, charged with managing the affairs of
the nation, till a constitution should be established.

As a circumstance that gives a complexion to the course of
things, it is proper to mention that the Jacobin Club at Paris
(a society which, with its branches in different parts of France,
appears to have had a prevailing influence over the affairs of the
country), previous to the meeting of the convention, entered into
measures with the avowed object of purging the convention of
those persons, favorers of roj^alty, who might have escaped the
attention of the primary assemblies.

In the last place, the late king of France has been tried and
condemned by the convention, and has suffered death.

Whether he has suffered justly or unjustl}7, whether he has
been a guilty tyrant or an unfortunate victim, is at least a prob-
lem. There certainly can be no hazard in affirming, that no
proof has yet come to light sufficient to establish a belief that
the death of Louis is an act of national justice.

It appears to be regarded in a different light throughout Eu-
rope, and by a numerous and respectable part, if not by a majo-
rity, of the people of the United States.

;Et. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 365

Almost all Europe is or seems likely to be armed in op-
position to the present rulers of France, with, the declared or
implied intention of restoring, if possible, the royalty in the
successor of the deceased monarch.

The present war, then, turns essentially on the point — What
shall be the future government of France ? Shall the royal au-
thority be restored in the person of the successor of Louis, or
shall a republic be constituted in exclusion of it ?

Thus stand the material facts which regard the origin of our
connections with France, and the obligations or dispensations
that now exist.

They have been stated, not with a view to indicate a defini-
tive opinion concerning the propriety of the conduct of the pres-
ent rulers of France, but to show that the course of the revolution
there has been attended with circumstances, which militate against
a full conviction of its having been brought to its present stage
by such a free, regular, and deliberate act of the nation, and with
such a spirit of justice and humanity, as ought to silence all scru-
ples about the validity of what has been done, and the morality
of aiding it, if consistent with policy.

This great and important question arises out of the facts
which have been stated :

Are the United States bound, by the principles of the laws of
nations, to consider the treaties heretofore made with France as
in present force and operation between them and the actual gov-
erning powers of the French nation ? or may they elect to con-
sider their operation as suspended, reserving also a right to judge
finally whether any such changes have happened in the political
affairs of France, as may justify a renunciation of those treaties?
It is believed that they have an option to consider the opera-
tion of those treaties as suspended, and will have eventually a
right to renounce them, if such changes shall take place as can
bona fide be pronounced to render a continuance of the connections
which result from them disadvantageous or dangerous.

There are two general propositions which may be opposed to
this opinion : — 1st. That a nation has a right, in its own discre-
tion, to change its form of government — to abolish one, and

366 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

substitute another. 2d. That real treaties (of which description
those in question are) bind the nations whose governments con-
tract, and continue in force notwithstanding any changes which
happen in the forms of their government.

The truth of the first proposition ought to be admitted in its
fullest latitude. But it will by no means follow, that, because a
nation has a right to manage its own concerns as it thinks fit,
and to make such changes in its political institutions as itself
judges best calculated to promote its interests, that it has there-
fore a right to involve other nations, with whom it may have had
connections, absolutely and unconditionallg, in the consequences of
the changes which it may think proper to make. This would be to
give to a nation or society not only a power over its own happi-
ness, but a power over the happiness of other nations or societies.
It would be to extend the operation of the maxim much beyond
the reason of it, which is simply, that every nation ought to have
a right to provide for its own happiness.

If, then, a nation thinks fit to make changes in its govern-
ment, which render treaties that before subsisted between it and
another nation useless, or dangerous, or hurtful to that other
nation, it is a plain dictate of reason, that the latter will have a
right to renounce those treaties ; because it also has a right to
take care of its own happiness, and cannot be obliged to suffer
this to be impaired by the means which its neighbor or ally may
have adopted for its own advantage, contrary to the ancient state
of things.

But it may be said, that an obligation to submit to the incon-
veniences that may ensue, arises from the other maxim which
has been stated, namely, that real treaties bind nations, notwith-
standing the changes which happen in the forms of their gov-
ernments.

All general rules are to be construed with certain reasonable
limitations. That which has been just mentioned must be un-
derstood in this sense, — that changes in forms of government do
not of course abrogate real treaties ; that they continue absolutely
binding on the party which makes the change, and will bind the
other party, unless, in due time and for just cause, he declares

At. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 367

his election to renounce them ; that in good faith he ought not
to renounce them, unless the change which happened does really
render them useless, or materially less advantageous, or more
dangerous than before. But for good and sufficient cause he may
renounce them.

Nothing can be more evident than that the existing forms of
government of two nations may enter far into the motives of a
real treaty. Two republics may contract an alliance, the princi-
pal inducement to which may be a similarity of constitutions,
producing a common interest to defend their mutual rights and
liberties. A change of the government of one of them into a
monarchy or despotism may destroy the inducement and the
main link of common interest. Two monarchies may form an
alliance on a like principle, their common defence against a
powerful neighboring republic. The change of the government
of one of the allies may destroy the source of common sympathy
and common interest, and render it prudent for the other ally to
renounce the connection and seek to fortify itself in some other
quarter.

Two nations may form an alliance because each has confi-
dence in the energy and efficacy of the government of the other.
A revolution may subject one of them to a different form of gov-
ernment— feeble, fluctuating, and turbulent, liable to provoke
wars, and very little fitted to repel them. Even the connections
of a nation with other foreign powers may enter into the motives
of an alliance with it. If a dissolution of ancient connections
shall have been a consequence of a revolution of government,
the external political relations of the parties may have become
so varied as to occasion an incompatibility of the alliance with
the power, which had changed its constitution with the other
connections of its ally — connections perhaps essential to its
welfare.

In such cases, reason, which is the touchstone of all similar
maxims, would dictate that the party whose government had
remained stationary, would have a right under a bona fide convic-
tion that the change in the situation of the other party would
render a future connection detrimental or dangerous, to declare
the connection dissolved.

368 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

Contracts between nations as between individuals, must lose
their force where the considerations fail.

A treaty pernicious to the state, is of itself void, where no
change in the situation of either of the parties takes place. By a
much stronger reason it must become voidable at the option of the
other party, when the voluntary act of one of the allies has
made so material a change in the condition of things, as is always
implied in a radical revolution of government.

Moreover, the maxim in question must, I presume, be under-
stood with this further limitation — that the revolution be consum-
mated— that the new government be established, and recognized
among nations — that there be an undisputed organ of the national
will to obtain the performance of the stipulations made with the
former government.

It is not natural to presume that an ally is obliged to throw
his weight into either scale, where the war involves the very
point — what shall be the government of the country ; and that
too against the very party with whom the formal obligations of
the alliance have been contracted.

It is more natural to conclude that in such a case, the ally
ought either to aid the party, with whom the contract was imme-
diately made, or to consider the operation of the alliance as sus-
pended. The latter is undoubtedly his duty, rather than the
former, where the nation appears to have pronounced the change.

A doctrine contrary to that here supported may involve an
opposition of moral duties, and dilemmas of a very singular and
embarrassing kind.

A nation may owe its existence or preservation entirely, or
in a great degree, to the voluntary succors which it derived from
a monarch of a country — the then lawful organ of the national
will, the director of its sword and its purse, the dispenser of its
aid and its favors. In consideration of the good offices promised
or afforded by him, an alliance may have been formed between
the monarch, his heirs and successors, and the country indebted
to him for those good offices — stipulating future co-operation and
mutual aid. This monarch, without any particular crime on his
part, may be afterwards deposed $nd expelled by his nation, or

JEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 369

by a triumphant faction, which may, perhaps, momentarily direct
the nation's voice. He may find in the assistance of neighboring
powers friendly to his cause the means of endeavoring to rein-
state himself.

In the midst of his efforts to accomplish this purpose, the
ruling powers of the nation, over which he had reigned, call irpon
the country, which had been saved by his friendship and patron-
age, to perform the stipulations expressed in the alliance made
with him, and embark in a war against their friend and benefac-
tor— on the suggestion, that the treaty being a real one, the
actual rulers of the nation have a right to claim the benefit of it.

If there be no option in such case, would there not be a most
perplexing conflict of opposite obligations ? — of the faith sup-
posed to be plighted by the treaty, and of justice and gratitude
towards a man from whom essential benefits had been received,
and who could oppose the formal and express terms of the con-
tract to an abstract theoretic proposition? Would genuine
honor, would true morality permit the taking a hostile part
against the friend and benefactor, being at the same time the
original party to the contract ?

Suppose the call of the actual rulers to be complied with, and
the war to have been entered into by the ally. Suppose the ex-
pelled monarch to have re-entered his former dominions, and to
have been joined by one-half of his former subjects — how would
the obligation then stand ? He will now have added to the title
of being the formal party to the contract, that of being the actual
possessor of one half the country and of the wishes of one half
the nation.

Is it supposable that, in such a case, the obligations of the al-
liance can continue in favor of those by whom he had been
expelled ? or would they then revert again to the monarch ? or
would they fluctuate with the alternations of good and ill
fortune attending the one or the other party ? Can a principle
which Avould involve such a dilemma be true ? Is it not evident
that there must be an option to consider the operation of the al-
liance as suspended during the contest concerning the govern-
ment— that, on the one hand, there may not be a necessity of

D 24

370 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

taking part with the expelled monarch against the apparent will
of the nation, or, on the other, a necessity of joining the ruling
powers of the moment against the immediate party with whom
the contract was made, and from whom the consideration may
have flowed ?

If the opinions of writers be consulted, they will, as far as
they go, confirm the sense of the maxim which is here con-
tended for.

Grotius, while he asserts the general principle of the obliga-
tion of real treaties upon nations, notwithstanding the changes in
their governments, admits the qualification which has been in-
sisted upon, and expressly excepts the case where it appears that
the motive to the treaty was " peculiar to the form of govern-
ment, as when free states enter into an alliance for the defence of
their liberties." Book II., chap, xvi., § 16, No. 1.

And Vatel, who is the most systematic of the writers on the
laws of nations, lays down the qualification in the greatest lati-
tude. To give a correct idea of his meaning, it will be of use to
transcribe the entire section, with its marginal note. It is found
Book II., ch. xii., § 197.
" what is the obii- "The same question," says he, (to wit, that

gation of a real alii- . • \ t ' j- i i? • 7 it

ance, when the king, stated m the margin,) "presents itseli in real alli-

who is the ally, is driv- .. . ' .

en from the throne v ances made, and in general m all alliances made
with the state, and not in particular with a king for the defence
of his person. An ally ought doubtless to be defended against
every invasion, against every foreign violence, and even against
his rebellious subjects ; in the same manner, a republic ought to
be defended against the enterprises of one who attempts to de-
stroy the public liberty. But it ought to be remembered that
an ally of the state or the nation is not its judge. If the nation
has deposed its king in form, if the people of a republic have
driven out their magistrates and set themselves at liberty, or
acknowledged the authority of an usurper, either expressly or
tacitly ; to oppose these domestic regulations by disputing their
justice or validity, would be to interfere with the government of
a nation, and do it an injury. The ally remains the ally of the
state, notwithstanding the change which has happened in it.

jEt.36.] cabinet papers. 871

However, when this change renders the alliance useless, danger-
ous, or disagreeable, it may renounce it ; for it may say, upon a
good foundation, that it would not have entered into an alliance
with that nation had it been under the present form of govern-
ment."

It is not perceived that there is any ambiguity of expression,
or any other circumstance, to throw the least obscurity upon the
sense of the author. The precise question he raises is, What is
the obligation of a real alliance, when the king, who is the ally,
is driven from the throne ? He concludes, after several interme-
diate observations, that the ally remains the ally of the State, not-
withstanding the change which has happened. Nevertheless,
says he, when the change renders the alliance useless, dangerous,
or disagreeable, it may be renounced.

It is observable, that the question made by writers always is,
whether, in a real alliance, when the king who is the ally is de-
posed, the ally of the deposed king is bound to succor and sup-
port him. And though it is decided by the better opinions, as
well as by the reason of the thing, that there is not an obligation
to support him against the will of the nation, when his dethrone-
ment is to be ascribed to that source, yet there is never a single
suggestion, on the other hand, of the ally of such dethroned
king being obliged to assist his nation against him. The most
that appears to be admitted in favor of the decision of the nation
is, that there is no support due to the dethroned prince.

Puffendorf puts this matter upon very proper grounds. Re-
ferring to the opinion of Grotius, who with too much latitude
lays it down, " that a league made with a king is valid, though
that king or his successors be expelled the kingdom by his sub-
jects ; for though he has lost his possession, the right to the crown
still remains in him," he makes the following observation : "To
me, so much in this case seems to be certain, that if the terms of
the league expressly mention and intend the defence of the prince's
person and family, he ought to be assisted in the recovery of his
kingdom. But if the league was formed for public good only, 'tis
a disputable point whether the exiled prince can demand assist-
ance in virtue of his league. For the aids mentioned are presumed

372 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

to have been promised against foreign enemies, iciiliout view of this
particular case. Not but that still such a league leaves liberty to
assist a lawful prince against an usurper."

The presumption here stated is a natural and proper one, and
in its reason applies to both sides — to the exiled prince, who
should demand succors against his nation, and to the nation, who
having dethroned its prince, should demand succor to support
the act of dethronement and establish the revolution. The ally
in such case is not bound to come in aid of either party, but may
consider the operation of the alliance as suspended till the com-
petition about the government is decided.

What a difference is there between asserting it to be a dispu-
table point, whether the ally of a dethroned prince, in the case of
a real treaty, is not bound to assist him against the nation, and
maintaining that the ally is bound at all events to assist the na-
tion against him ! For this is the consequence of asserting that
such a treaty ipso facto attaches itself to the body of the nation,
even in the course of a pending revolution, and without option
either to suspend or renounce.

If the practice of nations be consulted, neither will that be
found to confirm the proposition, that the obligation of real
treaties extends unconditionally to the actual governors of nations,
•whatever changes take place. In the books which treat on the
subject, numerous examples of the contrary are quoted. The
most prevailing practice has been to assist the ancient sovereign.
:In the very instance to which this discussion relates, this is the
course which a great part of Europe directly or indirectly pur-
. sues.

It may be argued by way of objection to what has been said,
that admitting the general principle of a right for sufficient cause
to renounce ; yet still, as the change in the present case is from a
monarchy to a republic, and no sufficient excuse hitherto exists
for a renunciation, the possibility of its arising hereafter in the
progress of events, does not appear a valid reason for resorting
to the principle in question. To this the answer is, that no gov-
ernment has yet been instituted in France in lieu of that which
has been pulled down. That the existing political powers are, by

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 373

the French themselves, denominated provisional, and are to give
way to a constitution to be established.

It is therefore impossible to foresee what the future govern-
ment of France will be ; and in this state of uncertainty, the
right to renounce, resolves itself into, of course, a right to suspend.
The one is a consequence of the other ; applicable to the unde-
termined state of things. If there be a right to renounce when
the change of government proves to be of a nature to render an
alliance useless or injurious, there must be a right amidst a pend-
ing revolution, to wait to see what change will take place.

Should it be said, that the treaty is binding now, no objec-
tionable change having yet taken place, but may be renounced
hereafter, if any such change shall take place:

The answer is, that it is not possible to pronounce at present
what is the quality of the change. Every thing is in transitu.
This state of suspense, as to the object of option, naturally sus-
pends the option itself. The business may, in its progress,
assume a variety of forms. If the issue may not be waited for,
the obligations of the country may fluctuate indefinitely — be one
thing to-day, another to-morrow ; a consequence which is inad-
missible.

Besides, the true reasoning would seem to be, that to admit
the operation of the treaties, while the event is pending, would
be to take the chance of what that event shall be, and would
preclude a future renunciation.

Moreover, the right to consider the operation of the treaties
as suspended, results from this farther consideration, that during
a pending revolution, an ally in a real treaty is not bound to pro-
nounce between the competitors.

The conclusion from the whole is, that there is an option in
the United States to hold the operation of the treaties suspended ;
and that in the event, if the form of government established in
France shall be such as to render a continuance of the treaties
contrary to the interest of the United States, they may be re-
nounced.

If there be such an option, there are strong reasons to show
that the character and interests of the United States require, that

374 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J&t. 36

they should pursue the course of holding the operation of the
treaties suspended.

Their character :

Because it was from Louis XVL, the then sovereign of
the country, that they received those succors which were so im-
portant in the establishment of their independence and liberty.
It was with him, his heirs, and successors, that they contracted
their engagements — by which they obtained those precious
succors.

It is enough, on their part, to respect the right of the nation
to change its government, so far as not to side with the succes-
sors of the dethroned prince ; as to receive their ambassador,
and keep up an amicable intercourse ; as to be willing to render
every good office, not contrary to the duties of a real neutrality.

To throw their weight into the scale of the new government,
would, it is to be feared, be considered by mankind as not con-
sistent with a decent regard to the relations which subsisted be-
tween them and Louis XYI. ; as not consistent with a due sense
of the services they received from that unfortunate prince ; as
not consistent with national delicacy and decorum.

The character of the United States may also be concerned in
keeping clear of any connection with the present government of
France, in other views.

A struggle for liberty is in itself respectable and glorious ;
when conducted with magnanimity, justice, and humanity, it
ought to command the admiration of every friend to human
nature ; but if sullied by crimes and extravagancies, it loses its
respectability. Though success may rescue it from infamy, it
cannot, in the opinion of the sober part of mankind, attach to it
much positive merit or praise. But in the event of a want of
success, a general execration must attend it.

It appears, thus far, but too probable, that the pending revo-
lution of France has sustained some serious blemishes. There is
too much ground to anticipate, that a sentence uncommonly
severe will be passed upon it if it fails.

"Will it be well for the United States to expose their reputa-
tion to the issue, by implicating themselves as associates ? Will

^Et. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 375

tlieir reputation be promoted by a successful issue ? "What will
it suffer by the reverse ?

These questions suggest very serious considerations to a
mind anxious for the reputation of the country — anxious that
it may emulate a character of sobriety, moderation, justice, and
love of order.

The interest of the United States seems to dictate the course
recommended, in many ways :

I. In reference to their character, from the considerations
already stated.

II. In reference to their peace.

As the present treaties contain stipulations of military suc-
cors and military aids, in certain cases which are likely to occur,
there can be no doubt, that if there be an option to consider
them as not binding, as not in operation, the considering them
as binding, as in operation, would be equivalent to making new
treaties of similar import; and it is a well settled point, that
such stipulations entered into, pending a war, or with a view to
a war, is a departure from neutrality.

How far the parties opposed to France may think fit to treat
us as enemies, in consequence of this, is a problem which experi-
ence only can solve ; the solution of which will probably be
regulated by their views of their own interest — by the circum-
stances which may occur; and it is far from impossible that
these will restrain them, so long as we, in fact, take no active
part in favor of France.

But if there be an option to avoid it, it can hardly be wise to
incur so great an additional risk and embarrassment, to impli-
cate ourselves in the perplexities which may follow.

With regard to the good effect of the conduct which is
advocated upon the powers at war with France, nothing need be
said.

Even considering our interest with reference to France her-
self, some reasons may be urged in favor of considering the
treaties as suspended.

It seems to be the general, if not the universal sentiment,
that we ought not to embark in the war.

376 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 36.

Suppose the French islands attacked, and we called upon to
perform the guarantee. To avoid complying with it, we must
either say : That the war being offensive on the part of France,
the casus foederis does not exist; or, that as our co-operation
would be useless to the object of the guarantee, and attended
with more than ordinary danger to ourselves, we cannot af-
ford it.

Would the one or the other be satisfactory to France ?

The first would probably displease — the last would not please.
It is, moreover, the most questionable and the least reputable of
all the objections, which a nation is allowed to oppose to the per-
formance of its engagements. We should not therefore be much
more certain of avoiding the displeasure of the present ruling
powers of France, by considering the treaties as in operation,
than by considering their operation as suspended ; taking it for
granted that we are in either case to observe a neutral conduct
in fact

But suppose the contest unsuccessful on the part of the pre-
sent governing powers of France, what would then he our situa-
tion with the future government of that country ?

Should we not be branded and detested by it as the worst of
ingrates ?

When it is added, that the restoration of the monarchy
would be very naturally attributed to the interposition of Great
Britain — the reflection just suggested acquires peculiar weight
and importance.

But against this may be placed the consideration, that in the
event of the success of the present governing powers, we should
stand on much worse ground, by having considered the opera-
tion of the treaties as suspended, than by having pursued a con-
trarv conduct.

This is not clear, for the reasons just given ; unless we are
also willing, if called upon, to become parties in the war. But
admitting that the course of considering the treaties as in pre-
sent operation, would give us a claim of merit with France, in
the event of the establishment of the republic; our affairs with
that country would not stand so much the better on this account, as

Mt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 377

they would stand worse for giving operation to the treaties, should
the monarchy be restored.

We should still have to offer a better claim to the friendship
of France than any other power — the not taking side with her
enemies, the early acknowledgment of the republic by the re-
ception of its minister, and such good offices as have been and
may be rendered, consistently with a sincere neutrality.

The reasons, too, which induced us not to go farther, will
have their due weight in times that shall restore tranquillity and
moderation and sober reflection! They will justify us even to
France herself.

Is there not, however, danger that a refusal to admit the
operation of the treaties might occasion an immediate rupture
with France ?

A danger of this sort cannot be supposed, without supposing
such a degree of intemperance on the part of France as will
finally force us to quarrel with her or to embark with her. And
if such be her temper, a fair calculation of hazards will lead us to
risk her displeasure in the first instance. An inquiry naturally
arises of this kind : Whether from the nature of the treaties,
they have any such intrinsic value, as to render it inexpedient
to put them in jeopardy, by raising a question about their oper-
ation or validity?

Here, it may freely be pronounced, there is no difficulty. The
military stipulations they contain, are contrary to that neutrality
in the quarrels of Europe, which it is our true policy to cultivate
and maintain. And the commercial stipulations to be found in
them present no peculiar advantages.

They seem to us nothing or scarcely any thing which an in-
evitable course of circumstances would not produce. It would
be our interest, in the abstract, to be disengaged from them, and
take the chance of future negotiation, for a better treaty of com-
merce.

It might be observed by way of objection to what has been
said, that an admission of the operation of the treaties, has been
considered as equivalent to taking part with France.

It is true that the two things have been considered as equiva-

378 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

lent to each other, and in strict reasoning this ought to be the
case. — Because,

1. If there be an option, the effect of not using it would be
to pass from a state of neutrality to that of being an ally — thereby
authorizing the powers at war with France to treat us as an
enemy.

2. If under the operation of the treaties we are not bound to
embark in the war, it must be owing either to casualty or
inability.

If the war is not offensive on the part of France, an attack on
the West India Islands would leave us no escape, but in the plea
of inability.

The putting ourselves in a situation, in which it might so hap-
pen, that we could preserve our neutrality under no other plea
than that of inability, is, in all the political legal relations of the
subject, to make ourselves a party. In other words, the placing
ourselves in a position, in which it would depend on casualty
whether it would not become our duty to engage in the war,
ought, in a general question of establishing or recognizing a
political relation with a foreign power embarked in war, to be
regarded in the same light as the taking part with that power in
the war.

To do a thing, or to contract or incur an obligation of doing
it, are not in such a question materially different.

There remain some miscellaneous views of the subject, which
will serve to fortify the general reasoning.

I. The conduct of the present government of France gives a
sanction to other nations to use some latitude of discretion in
respect to their treaties with the former government. That gov-
ernment, it is understood, has formally declared null various
stipulations of the ancient government with foreign powers, on
the principle of their inapplicability to the new order of things.
Were it to be urged, that an erroneous conduct on the part of
France will not justify a like conduct on our part, it might be
solidly replied, that a rule of practice formally adopted by any
nation for regulating its political obligations towards other nations,
may justly be appealed to as a standard for regulating the obliga-

;Et. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 379

tions of those nations towards her. Suppose this general ground
to have been explicitly taken by France, that all treaties made by
the old government became void by the Revolution, unless
recognized by the existing authority — can it be doubted that
every other nation would have had a right to adopt the same
principle of conduct towards France ? It cannot. By parity of
reasoning, as far as France may in practice have pursued that
principle, other nations may justifiably plead the example.

II. In addition to the embarrassments heretofore suggested,
as incident to the admission of the present operation of the
treaties, this very particular one may attend our case. An
island may be taken by Great Britain, or Holland, with the
avowed intention of holding it for the future king of France, the
successor of Louis XYI. Can it be possible that a treaty made
with Louis XYI. should oblige us to embark in the war to rescue
a part of his dominions from his immediate successor ? Under
all the circumstances of the case would the national integrity or
delicacy permit it ? Was it clear that Louis merited his death as
a perfidious tyrant, the last question might receive a different
answer, from what can now be given to it !

Ought the United States to involve themselves in a dilemma
of this kind ?

III. In national questions, the general conduct of nations has
great weight. When all Europe is, or is likely to be, armed in
opposition to the authority of the present government of France,
would it not be to carry theory to an extreme, to pronounce
that the United States are under an absolute indispensable obliga-
tion, not only to acknowledge respectfully the authority of that
government, but to admit the immediate operation of treaties,
which would constitute them at once its ally ?

IV. Prudence, at least, seems to dictate the course of reserving
the question, in order that further reflection and a more complete
development of circumstances shall enable us to make a decision
both right and safe. It does not appear necessary to precipitate
the fixing of our relations to France beyond the possibility of
retraction. It is putting too suddenly too much to hazard.

It may be asked — Does not an unqualified reception of the
minister determine the point ?

380 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

Perhaps it does not; yet there is no satisfactory guide by
•which to decide the precise import and extent of such a reception
by which to pronounce that it would not conclude us as to the
treaties. There is great room to consider the epoch of receiving
a minister from the republic as that ivhen we ought to explain
ourselves on the point in question — and silence, at that time, as
a waiver of our option.

It is probable that on the part of France it will be urged to
have this effect ; and if it should be truly so considered by her,
to raise the question afterwards would lead to complaint, accusa-
tion, ill humor.

It seems most candid and most safe to anticipate — not to risk
the imputation of inconsistency. It seems advisable to be able
to say to foreign powers, if questioned, " In receiving the min-
ister of France, we have not acknowledged ourself its ally. We
have reserved the point for future consideration."

It may be asked, whether the reception, at any rate, is not
inconsistent with the reservation recommended.

It does not appear to be so. The acknowledgment of a govern-
ment by the reception of its ambassador, and the acknowledg-
ment of it as an ally, are things different and separable from each
other. However the first, where a connection before existed
between the two nations, may imply the last, if nothing is said,
this implication may clearly be repelled, by a declaration that it
is not the intention of the party. Such a declaration would be
in the nature of a protest against the implication ; and the de-
clared intent would govern. It is a rule that " expressum facit
cessare taciturn."

It may likewise be asked, whether we are not too late for the
ground proposed to be taken — whether the payments on account
of the debt to France, subsequent to the last change, be not an
acknowledgment that all engagements to the former government
are to be fulfilled to the present.

The two objects of a debt in money, and a treaty of alliance,
have no necessary connection. They are governed by considera-
tions altogether different and irrelative.

The payment of a debt is a matter of perfect and strict obli-

Mt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 381

gation. It must be done at all events. It is to be regulated by
circumstances of time and place, and ought to be done with pre-
cise punctuality.

In the case of a nation, whoever acquires possession of its
political power, whoever becomes master of its goods, of the
national property, must pay all the debts which the government
of the nation has contracted.

In like manner, on the principle of reciprocity, the sovereign
in possession is to receive the debts due to the government of
the nation. These debts are at all events to be paid ; and posses-
sion alone can guide as to the party to whom they are to be paid.

Questions of property are very different from those of political
connection.

Nobody can doubt that the debt due to France is at all events
to be paid, whatever form of government may take place in that
country.

As little is it to be doubted, that it is possible for a form of
government to take place in France, justifying the dissolution of
a political connection which before subsisted with that country.

Treaties between nations are capable of being affected by a
great variety of considerations, casualties and contingencies.
Forms of government, it is evident, may be the considerations
of them. Revolutions of government, by changing those forms,
may consequently vary the obligations of parties.

Hence the payment of a debt to the sovereign in possession does
not imply an admission of the present operation of political trea-
ties. It may so happen, that there is a strict obligation to pay
the debt, and a perfect right to withdraw from the treaties.

And while we are not bound to expose ourselves to the re-
sentment of the governing power of France by refusing to pay a
debt at the time and place stipulated ; so neither are we bound,
pending a contested revolution of government, to expose our-
selves to the resentment of other nations, by declaring ourselves
the ally of that power, in virtue of treaties contracted with a
former sovereign, who still pursues his claim to govern, support-
ed by the general sense and arm of Europe.

Alexander Hamilton.

382 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

TERNANT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphie, 30 Avril, 1793.

Le Ministre plenipe sousigne prie le Secretaire de la Tresoire

des Etats Unis, de vouloir lui faire payer le somme de vingt

mille livres tournois, a compte de la debte des dits Etats envers

la France, ainsi qu'il a 6t6 precedemment arrete par le President.

Ternant.

L'an 2 de la Republique Francoise.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

May 2, 1793.

Answers to remaining questions proposed by the President of the
United States on the 18th of April last.

Question 4. — Are the United States obliged by good faith
to consider the treaties heretofore made with France as applying
to the present situation of the parties ? May they either re-
nounce them or hold them suspended till the government of
France shall be established ?

Answer. — The war is plainly an offensive war on the part of
France. Burhmaqui, an approved writer, Yol. II., part iv.,
chapter iii., sec. 4 and 5, thus defines the different species of
war: "Neither are we to believe (says he) that he who first in-
jures another begins by that an offensive war, and that the other,
who demands satisfaction for the injury received, is always upon the
defensive. There are a great many unjust acts ivhich may kindle a
ivar, and which, however, are not the war, as the ill treatment of a
prince's ambassador, the plundering of his subjects, &c.

" If, therefore, we take up arms to revenge such an unjust
act, we commence an offensive but a just war; and the prince
who has done the injury, and will not give satisfaction, makes a

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 383

defensive but an unjust war. An offensive war is, therefore, un-
just only when it is undertaken without a lawful cause ; and then
the defensive war, which on other occasions might be unjust, be-
comes just.

" We must, therefore, affirm in general, that the first who takes up
arms, whether justly or unjustly, commences an offensive war ; and he
who opposes him, whether with or without reason, begins a defensive
war.^

This definition of offensive and defensive war is conformable to
the ideas of writers on the laws of nations in general, and is
adopted almost verbatim by Barbeyrac, in his Notes on III. and
IV, of Book VII. chap. vi. of Puffendorf's "Law of Nature and
Nations."

France, it is certain, was the first to declare war against every
one of the powers with which she is at war. Whether she had
good cause or not, therefore, in each instance, the war is com-
pletely offensive on her part.

The forms which she has employed in some of her declara-
tions (when, after reciting the aggressions she alleges to have
been committed against her by a particular power, she proceeds
to pronounce that war exists between her and such power) can-
not alter the substance of the thing. The aggressions complained
of, if ever so well founded, and however they may have been of
a nature to kindle the war, were not the war itself The war began,
in each case, by the declaration and by the commencement of
hostilities on the part of France. It was, therefore, clearly
offensive on her part.

With regard to the causes that led to the war in each case, it
requires more exact information than I have to pronounce upon
them with confidence. As regards Austria and Prussia, the sug-
gestion on one hand is, that a combination was formed to over-
throw the new constitution of France, and that the declaration
on the part of the latter country was only an anticipation of
what would soon have proceeded from the confederated powers.
On the other hand, it is affirmed that the preparations and ar-
rangements on their part were merely provisional and eventual,
aad that the republican party in France precipitated a war under

384 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

the idea that it would furnish opportunities for accusing and
criminating the king's administration, and finally overthrow the
royalty. Waiving all definitive opinion on this point, better
guides will enable us to pronounce with more certainty in the
other cases.

In respect to Holland, there seems to be no doubt that the
aggression began with France.

France, in different treaties, had recognized a right in the
Dutch to the exclusive navigation of the river Scheldt.

It appears that she had a leading agency in adjusting a con-
troversy on this point, between the late Emperor Joseph and the
Netherlands.

The 28th article of a treaty between those parties, concluded
at Fontainebleau the 8th of November, 1785, is in these words :

"His most Christian Majesty contributed to the completion
of the arrangement made between the high contracting parties,
(namely, the Emperor and the States General,) by his friendly in-
tervention and his effectual and just mediation. His said Majesty is
requested by the high contracting parties, to charge himself like-
wise with being the guarantee of the present treaty."

Nevertheless, the provisionary Executive Council, by a de-
cree of the 16th of November, 1792, break through all these
formal and express engagements, on the pretext of their being
contrary to natural right, and declare the navigation of the
Scheldt and Meuse/ree.

Such an infraction of treaties, on such a ground, cannot be
justified without subverting all the foundations of positive and
pactitious right among nations. It is equally agreeable to the
doctrine of theorists, and to the practice of nations, that rights
to the common use of waters of the description in question, may
be relinquished and qualified by treaty. To resume them, there-
fore, on the ground of the imprescriptibility, as it is called, of na-
tural rights, is to set up a new rule of conduct, contrary to the
common sense and common practice of mankind, amounting in
the party which attempts the resumption, to an unequivocal in-
jury to the party against which it is attempted.

In respect to Great Britain the case is not equally clear ; but

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 385

there is sufficient ground to pronounce, that she had cause of
complaint, prior to any given on her part.

It is known that in the early periods of the French revolu-
tion, she adopted the ground of neutrality, and nothing is alleged
against her till after the 10th of August.

That event led her to withdraw her minister from the Court
of France : but before his departure, he left a note declarative of
the intention of Great Britain to pursue still a pacific course ; ac-
companied, indeed, with a cautious intimation that personal vio-
lence to the king would excite the general indignation of
Europe.

Bat it will hardly be affirmed that this procedure amounted
to an aggression. To recall a minister from, or not to keep one
at any court, is of itself an act of indifference. The recall, under
such circumstances as took place on the 10th of August, was not
an extraordinary step. Every government had a right to deli-
berate, and was bound for its own safety to consider well, when
it would recognize a new order of things. The keeping of a
minister at France, after the deposition of the king, might be
deemed a sanction of the change, and, indeed, was useless, until
it was intended to give that sanction.

It was not therefore incumbent upon any power to pursue
this course, especially one which was not in the condition of
an ally.

The intimation with regard to the king to characterize it in
the most exceptionable light, was at most an act of officiousness.
Eelating to a thing not at the time in agitation, it could only be
considered as a caution to avoid a measure which might beget
misunderstanding.

The conduct of France shows that she did not at the time
consider this step as an injury; for she continued a minister at
the court of London, and continued to negotiate.

The next step of Great Britain in order of time, which is
complained of by France, and the first of a really hostile com-
plexion, is the restriction on the exportation of corn to France,
by way of exception to a general permission to export that
article.

D 25

386 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

This was an unfriendly measure. It happened, as far as I
am able to trace it, in the latter part of December, 1792.

But prior to these causes of dissatisfaction, an alarm had been
given by France to Great Britain.

The Convention on the 19th of November passed a decree
in these words :

11 The National Convention declare, in the name of the
French nation, that they will grant fraternity and assistance
to every people who wish to recover their liberty ; and they
charge the executive power to send the necessary orders to the
generals to give assistance to such people, and to defend those
citizens who may have been or who may be vexed for the cause of
liberty." Which decree was ordered to be printed IN all
languages.

This decree ought justly to be regarded in an exceptionable
light by the government of every country. For though it be
lawful and meritorious to assist a people in a virtuous and ra-
tional struggle for liberty, when the particular case happens, yet it
is not justifiable in any government or nation to hold out to the
world a general invitation and encouragement to revolution and in-
• surrection, under a promise of fraternity and assistance.

Such a step is of a nature to disturb the repose of mankind,
to excite fermentation in every country, to endanger government
every where. Nor can there be a doubt, that wheresoever a
spirit of this kind appears, it is lawful to repress and repel it.

But this generally exceptionable proceeding might be looked
upon by Great Britain as having a more particular reference to
her, from some collateral circumstances.

It is known that various societies were instituted in Great
Britain, with the avowed object of reforms in the government.
These societies presented addresses to the Convention of France,
and received answers, containing an interchange of sentiments
justly alarming to the British government.

It will suffice, by way of illustration, to cite passages from
two of these answers, each given by the President of the Con-
vention, at a sitting on the 28th of November, one to a depu-
tation from the Society for Constitutional Information in Lon-

;Et.36.] cabinet papers. 387

don ; the other to a deputation of English and Irish citizens at
Paris.

" The shades of Penn, of Hampden", and of Sydney, hover
over your heads, and the moment without doubt approaches in which
the French will bring congratulations to the National Conven-
tion of Great Britain."

" Nature and principles draw towards us England, Scotland,
and Ireland. Let the cries of friendship resound through the
two republics. Again principles are waging war against tyranny,
which will fall under the blows of philosophy. Koyalty in
Europe is either destroyed or on the point of perishing on the
ruins of feodalty ; and the declaration of rights placed by the
side of thrones, is a devouring fire which will consume iliem. Wor-
thy Eepublicans," &c.

Such declarations to such societies are a comment upon the
decree ; are in every sense inconsistent with what was due to a
just respect for a neutral nation, and amounted to so direct a
patronage of a revolution, in the essential principles of its gov-
ernment, as authorized even a declaration of war.

It is true that Mr. Chauvelin, in a note to Lord Grenville, of
the 27th of December, 1792, declares that the "National Con-
vention never meant that the French Eepublic should favor in-
surrections, should espouse the quarrels of a few seditious persons,
or should endeavor to excite disturbances in any neutral or
friendly country ; the decree being only applicable to a people,
who after having acquired their liberty, should call for the fra-
ternity, the assistance of the Republic, by the solemn and unequivocal
expression of the general wilV

But that this explanation could not change the real nature
and tendency of the decree, which, holding out a general pro-
mise of fraternity and assistance to every people who wished to
recover their liberty, did favor insurrections, was calculated to
excite disturbances in neutral and friendly countries.

Still less could it efface the exceptionable and offensive nature
of the reception which was given, and the declarations which
were made, to the revolutionary or reforming societies of Great
Britain.

388 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 36.

The answer of Lord Grenville very justly observes, that
"Neither satisfaction nor security is found in the terms of an
explanation which still declares to the promoters of sedition in
every country, what are the cases in which they may count be-
forehand on the support and succor of France, and what reserves
to that country the right of mixing herself in the internal affairs
of another, whenever she shall judge it proper, and on principles
incompatible with the political institutions of all the countries of
Europe."

Besides the declarations which have been mentioned to the
different English societies, and which apply particularly to Great
Britain, there are other acts of France which were just causey of
umbrage and alarm to all the governments of Europe.

Her decree of the loth of December is one of them. This
decree, extraordinary in every respect, which contemplates the
total subversion of all the ancient establishments of every coun-
try into which the arms of France should be carried, has the fol-
lowing article :

" The French nation declare — That it will treat as enemies the
people, who, refusing or renouncing liberty and equality, are desirous
of preserving their prince and privileged casts, or of entering into an
accommodation ivith them. The nation promises and engages not
to lay down its arms until the sovereignty and liberty of the
people, on whose territories the French armies shall have entered,
shall be established, and not to consent to any arrangement or
treaty with the prince and privileged persons so dispossessed, with
whom the rejDublic is at war."

This decree cannot but be regarded as an outrage little short
of a declaration of war against every government of Europe,
and as a violent attack upon the freedom of opinion of all mankind.

The incorporation of the territories conquered by the arms of
France with France herself, is another of the acts alluded to, as
giving just cause of umbrage and alarm to neutral nations in
general. It is a principle well established by the laws of nations,
that the property and dominion of conquered places do not
become absolute in the conquerors, until they have been ceded or
relinquished by a treaty of peace or some equivalent termination
of the war.

^t. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 389

Till then it is understood to be in a state of suspense, (the
conqueror having only a possessory and qualified title,) liable to
such a disposition as may be made by the compact which termi-
nates the war. Hence the citizen of the neutral nation can
acquire no final or irrevocable title to land by purchase of the
conqueror during the continuance of the war. This principle, it
is evident, is of the greatest importance to the peace and security
of nations — greatly facilitating an adjustment of the quarrels in
which they happen at any time to be involved.

But the incorporation which has been mentioned, and which
actually took place with respect to the territories of different
powers, Savoy, Antwerp, &c, was a direct violation of that very
important and fundamental principle ; and of those rights which
the laws of war reserve to every power at war ; a violation tend-
ing to throw insuperable difficulties in the way of peace. After
once having adopted those territories as part of herself she became
bound to maintain them to the last extremity by all those
peremptory rules which forbid a nation to consent to its own dis-
memberment.

That incorporation, therefore, changed entirely the principle
of the war on the part of France. It ceased to be a war for the
defence of her rights, for the preservation of her liberty. It
became a war of acquisition, of extension of territory and domin-
ion, and in a manner altogether subversive of the laws and
usages of nations, and tending to the aggrandisement of France,
to a degree dangerous to the independence and safety of every
country in the world.

There is no principle better supported by the doctrines of
writers, the practice of nations, and the dictates of right reason,
than this — that whenever a nation adopts maxims of conduct
tending to the disturbance of the tranquillity and established
order of its neighbors, or manifesting a spirit of self-aggrandise-
ment, it is lawful for other nations to combine against it, and by
force to control the effects of those maxims and that spirit
The conduct of France in the instances which have been stated,
calmly and impartially viewed, was an offence against nations,
which naturally made it a common cause among them to check
her career.

390 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

The pretext of propagating liberty can make no difference.
Every nation has a right to carve out its own happiness in its
own way, and it is the height of presumption in another to at-
tempt to fashion its political creed.

These acts and proceedings are all prior in time to the last
aggressive step of Great Britain, the ordering out of the kingdom
the person who was charged with a diplomatic mission to that
court from the government of France.

The style and manner of that proceeding rendered it undoubt-
edly an insult, and if the conduct of France before that time had
been unexceptionable, the war declared by France, though
offensive in its nature, would have been justifiable in its motive.

With regard to Spain, the war was likewise declared by
France, and is consequently offensive on her part. The conduct
of the former towards the latter previous to this event, appears
not only to have been moderate, but even timid.

The war on the part of Portugal appears to have been offensive.

The result from what has been said is, that the war in which
France is engaged, is in fact an offensive war on her part against
all the powers with which she is engaged, except one ; and in
principle to speak in the most favorable terms for her, is at least a
mixed case — a case of mutual aggression.

The inference from this state of things is as plain as it is
important. The casus foederis of the guarantee in the treaty of
alliance between the United States and France cannot take place,
though her West India Islands should be attacked.

The express denomination of this treaty is " Traite d' Alliance
eventuelle et defensive" — Treaty of Alliance eventual and defensive.

The second article of the treaty also calls it a " defensive
alliance." This, then, constitutes the leading feature, the charac-
teristic quality of the treaty. By this principle every stipulation
in it is to be judged.

Mt.36.] cabinet papers. 391

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

Treasury Department, May 3d, 1793.

Sir:

I regret extremely that I did not receive your letter respect-
ing Mr. Ternant's application till two o'clock yesterday, after a
warrant had issued in his favor for the sum requested.

Agreeing entirely in opinion with you, that all applications
from diplomatic characters, as well those relating to pecuniary
matters as others, ought to be addressed to your Department, I
should have taken no step on the present occasion, had it not
been put on the footing of a previous arrangement (as you will
perceive by the copy of Mr. Ternant's note to me), and had I
not myself carried along in my mind a general impression that
the spirit of what had passed would comprise the advance re-
quested in the particular case.

For greater caution, however, I thought it advisable to men-
tion the matter to the President, which was followed (if I remem-
ber right, upon my own suggestion,) by the conversation which
I had with you.

You will remember, that though your recollection, at the
time, of what had passed from you, agreed with what had been
the result of your subsequent examination, yet you expressed
an opinion, that in the special case (adhering as a general rule
to the spirit of your late communication), it ought to be advisable
to make the advance desired, as it would be well " to part friends."
And it was at my request, subsequent to this declaration, that you
engaged to review your communications to Mr. Ternant.

Having told Mr. Ternant that the matter would be ter-
minated the day succeeding his application — not having heard
from you on that day — understanding it to be your opinion,
that, on the whole, it would be well to make the advance —
I waited on the President yesterday morning ; stated what had
passed between us, and obtained his consent for making the
advance.

I am thus particular, from a desire that you may see the

392 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

ground upon which I have proceeded, as it would give me pain
that you should consider what has been done as the infringe-
ment of a rule of official propriety. I assure you this was not
my intention.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

May 4th, 1793.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President. It has appeared to him, that a circular letter of the
inclosed form, to the several collectors, would be a measure of
utility. If not disapproved by the President, it will be for-
warded.

The inclosed paper is sent, lest the President should not have
received it otherwise. It contains intelligence critically im-
portant, though requiring confirmation.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, May 5th, 1793.

Dear Sir :

Before you dispatch the circular letter, of which you in-
closed me a copy, to the several collectors, I would speak to you
respecting a particular clause in it.

In the conversation you may have with a certain gentleman
to-day, I pray you to intimate to him, gently and delicately, that
if the letters or papers which he has to present are, knowingly
to him, of a nature which relates to public matters, and not par-
ticularly addressed to me, or if he has any verbal communica-
tions to make of a similar kind, I had rather they should come
through the proper channel. Add thereto, generally, that the

Mt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 393

peculiar situation of European affairs at this moment — my good
wishes for his nation aggregately — my regard for those of it in
particular with whom I have had the honor of an acquaintance —
my anxious desire to keep this country in peace — and the deli-
cacy of my situation, render a circumspect conduct indispensably
necessary on my part. I do not, however, mean by this, that I
am to withhold from him such civilities as are common to others.
Those more marked, notwithstanding our former acquaintance,
would excite speculations, which had better be avoided ; and if
the gentlemen, similarly circumstanced, could be introduced by
any other than himself, especially on Tuesday next, in the pub-
lic room, when it is presumed the officers of the French frigate
will be presented, it would unquestionably be better. But how
this can be brought about, as they are strangers, without em-
barrassment, as the French minister is shy on the occasion, I do
not at this moment see ; for it may not escape observation, as
every movement is watched, if the head of any Department
should appear prompt in this business, in the existing state of
things.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 7th, 1793.

Dear Sir :

As I perceive there has been some misconception respect-
ing the building of vessels in our ports which may be converted
into armed ones, and as I understand from the Attorney -General
there is to be a meeting to-day or to-morrow of the gentlemen on
another occasion, I wish to have that part of your circular letter
which respects this matter re-considcred by them before it goes out.

I am not disposed to adopt any measures which may check
ship-building in this country ; nor am I satisfied that we should
too promptly adopt measures, in the first instance, that are not
indispensably necessary. To take fair and supportable ground, I
conceive to be our best policy, and is all that can be required of

394 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

us by the powers at war ; leaving the rest to be managed accord-
ing to circumstances and the advantages which may be derived
from them. I am always, &c.

Quer. Is it not expedient that the District Attorneys should
be written to, requiring their attention to the observance of the
injunctions of the proclamation?

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

Treasury Department, May 9th, 1793.

Sir:

I have this moment received your letter of yesterday. It ap-
pears to me, as it does to you, that the position of the Collectors
of the Customs will render them the most convenient channel of
distribution for the passports ; nor do I perceive that it can inter-
fere with their other duties.

It will be equally agreeable to me, that they be transmitted
either directly from your office, or through this department. If
you prefer the latter, which I shall with pleasure facilitate, I will
request you to cause them to be sent in the first instance to me,
when I shall put them in the usual course of conveyance. With
great respect, I have the honor to be, &c.

P. S. Inclosed is the copy of a letter from the Collector of
New-York to Mr. Coxe, of the 7th instant, which is transmitted
for your consideration.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

May 15th, 1793.

State of facts as supposed.

Mr. Genet, Minister Plenipotentiary from the republic of
France, arrives in Charleston. There he causes two privateers

jEt.36.] cabinet papers. 395

to be fitted out, to which he issues commissions to cruise against
the enemies of France. There also the privateers are manned,
and partly with citizens of the United States, who are enlisted or
engaged for the purpose without the privity or permission of the
government of this country, before even Mr. Genet has delivered
his credentials, or been recognized as a public minister. One or
both of these privateers make captures of British vessels in the
neighborhood of our coast, and bring or send their prizes into
our ports. The British Minister Plenipotentiary, among other
things, demands a restitution of these prizes. Ought the demand
to be complied with?

I am of opinion that it ought to be complied with, and for
the following reasons.

The proceedings in question are highly exceptionable, both
as they respect our rights and as they make us an instrument of
hostilities against Great Britain.

The jurisdiction of every independent nation within its own
territories naturally excludes all exercise of authority by any
other government within those territories, unless by its own con-
sent, or in consequence of stipulations in treaties. Every such
exercise of authority, therefore, not warranted by consent or treaty,
is an intrusion on the jurisdiction of the country within which it
is exercised, and amounts to an injury and affront, more or less
great, according to the nature of the case.

The equipping, manning, and commissioning of vessels of war
— the enlisting, levying, or raising of men for military service,
whether by land or sea, all which are essentially of the same nature,
are among the highest and most important exercises of sovereignty.

It is, therefore, an injury and an affront of a very serious
kind, for one nation to do acts of the above description within
the territories of another, without its consent or permission.

This is a principle so obvious in itself, that it does not stand
in need of confirmation from authorities ; yet the following pas-
sage from Vattel, as to one of the points included in the case,
is so pertinent and forcible, that it cannot be improper to quote
it. It is found Book III., chap, ii., § 15, in these words: "As
the right of levying soldiers belongs solely to the nation, so no

396 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

person is to enlist soldiers in a foreign country without the per-
mission of the sovereign. They who undertake to enlist soldiers
in a foreign country, without the sovereign's permission, and in
general, whoever alienates the subjects of another, violates one of the
most sacred rights both of the prince and of the state. Foreign
recruiters are hanged immediately, and very justly ; as it is not to
be presumed that their sovereign ordered them to commit the
crime ; and if they did receive such an order, they ought not to
obey it, their sovereign having no right to command what is con-
trary to the law of nature. It is not, I say, apprehended that
these recruiters act by order of their sovereign, and usually they
who have practised seduction only are, if taken, severely pun-
ished. If they have used violence, and made their escape, they
are claimed, and the men they have carried off demanded. But
if it appears that they acted by order, such a proceeding in a foreign
sovereign is justly considered as an injury, and as a sufficient cause for
declaring ivar against him, unless he condescends to make suitable
reparation.'1''

The word soldier, here made use of, is to be understood to
mean all persons engaged or enlisted for military service, seamen
as well as landsmen. The principle applies equally to the former
as to the latter. This, it is imagined, will not be questioned.

In the case under consideration, there was neither treaty nor
consent to warrant what was done ; and the case is much stronger
than a mere levying of men.

The injury and insult to our government, then, under the
facts stated, cannot be doubted. The right to reparation follows
of course. It remains to inquire whether we are under an obli-
gation to redress any injury which may have accrued to Great
Britain from the irregularity committed towards us. The exist-
ence of such an obligation is affirmed upon the following
grounds :

It is manifestly contrary to the duty of a neutral nation to
suffer itself to be made the instrument of hostility by one power
at war against another. In doing it, such nation becomes an
associate, a party.

The United States would become effectually an instrument of

^t. 36.] CABINET PAEPRS. 397

hostility to France against the other powers at war, if France
could, ad libitum, build, equip and commission, in their ports,
vessels of war — man those vessels with their seamen — send them
out of their ports to cruise against the enemies of France — bring
or send the vessels and property taken from those enemies into
their ports — dispose of them there ; with a right to repeat these
expeditions as often as she should find expedient.

By the same rule, that France could do these things — she
could issue commissions among us at pleasure for raising any
number of troops — could march those troops towards our fron-
tiers— attack from thence the territories of Spain or England —
return with the plunder which had been taken within our terri-
tories— go again on new expeditions, and repeat them as often as
was found advantageous.

There can be no material difference between the two cases —
between preparing the means in, and carrying on from our ports
naval expeditions, and preparing the means in, and carrying on
from our territories land expeditions against the enemies of
France. The principle in each case would be the same.

And from both or either would result a state of war between
us and those enemies of the worst kind for them, as long as it was
tolerated. I say a state of Avar of the worst kind, because while
the resources of our country would be employed in annoying
them, the instruments of this annoyance would be occasionally
protected from pursuit, by the privileges of our ostensible neu-
trality.

It is easy to see that such a state of things would not be
tolerated longer than till it was perceived; and that we should
quickly and with good reason be treated as an associate of the
power whose instrument we had been made.

If it is inconsistent with the duties of neutrality, to permit
the practices described to an indefinite extent, it must be alike
inconsistent with those duties to permit them to any extent.
The quality of the fact, not the degree, must be the criterion.

It has indeed been agreed, that we are bound to prevent the
practices in question in future, and that an assurance shall be
given to the British minister, that effectual measures will be taken
for that purpose.

398 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

But it is denied that we are bound to interpose, to remedy
the effects, which have hitherto ensued.

The obligation to prevent an injury, usually, if not univer-
sally, includes that of repairing or redressing it, when it has hap-
pened.

If it be contrary to the duty of the United States as a neu-
tral nation, to suffer cruisers to be fitted out of their ports to
annoy the British trade, it comports with their duty to remedy
the injury which may have been sustained, when it is in their
power so to do.

If it be said that what was done took place before the gov-
ernment could be prepared to prescribe a preventive, and that
this creates a dispensation from the obligation to redress, the
answer is —

That a government is responsible for the conduct of all parts
of a community over which it presides ; that it is to be supposed
to have at all times a competent police every where to prevent
infractions of its duty towards foreign nations ; that in the case
in question, the magistracy of the place ought not to have per-
mitted what was done, and that the government is answerable
for the consequences of its omissions.

It is true that in a number of cases, a government may excuse
itself for the non-performance of its duty, on account of the want
of time to take due precautions, from the consideration of the
thing having been unexpected and unforeseen, &c. ; and justice
often requires that excuses of this kind, bona fide offered, should
be admitted as satisfactory.

But such things are only excuses, not justifications, and they are
only then to be received when a remedy is not within the reach
of the party.

If the privateers expedited from Charleston had been sent to
the French dominions, there to operate out of our reach, the ex-
cuse of want of time to take due precautions, ought to have been
satisfactory to Great Britain. But now that they have sent their
prizes into our ports, that excuse cannot avail us. We have it
in our power to administer a specific remedy, by causing resti-
tution of the property taken ; and it is conceived to be our duty

;Et. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 399

to do so. It is objected to this, that the commissions which were
issued, are valid between the parties at war, though irregular
with respect to us ; that the captures made under it, are there-
fore valid captures, vesting the property in the captors, of which
they cannot be deprived without a violation of their rights, and
an aggression on our part.

It is believed to be true that the commissions are in a legal
sense valid as between the parties at war. But the inference
drawn from this position, does not seem to follow.

It has been seen that what has been done on the part of the
French is a violation of our rights, for which we have a claim
to reparation, and a right to make war, if it be refused. "We
may reasonably demand then, as the reparation to which we are
entitled, restitution of the property taken, with or without an
apology for the infringement of our sovereignty. This we have
a right to demand, as a species of reparation consonant with the
nature of the injury, and enabling us to do justice to the party,
in injuring whom we have been made instrumental. It can
therefore be no just cause of complaint on the part of the captors,
that they are required to surrender a property, the means of ac-
quiring vjhich took their origin in a violation of our rights.

On the other hand, there is a claim upon us to arrest the ef-
fects of the injury, or annoyance to which we have been made
accessory. To insist, therefore, upon the restitution of the pro-
perty taken, will be to enforce a right, in order to the perform-
ance of a duty.

The effects of captures under the commissions, however valid
between the parties at war, have no validity against us. Origi-
nating in a violation of our rights, we are nowise bound to re-
spect them.

Why then (it may be asked) not send them to the animad-
version and decision of the courts of j ustice ? Because it is be-
lieved they are not competent to the decision ; the whole is an
affair between the governments of the parties concerned, to be
settled by reasons of state, not rules of law.

'Tis the case of an infringement of our sovereignty, to the pre-
judice of a third party ; in which the government is to demand a

400 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

reparation, with the double view of vindicating its own rights,
and doing justice to the suffering party.

A comparison of this case with that of contraband articles
can only mislead — a neutral nation has a general right to trade
with a power at war. The exception of contraband articles is an
exception of necessity ; it is a qualification of the general right
of the neutral nation in favor of the safety of the belligerent party.
And from this cause, and the difficulty of tracing it, in the course
of commercial dealings, that for the peace of nations, the external
penalty of confiscation is alone established. The neutral nation
is only bound to abandon its subjects to that penalty, not to take
internal measures to prevent and punish the practice. The state
of peace between two nations, on the other hand, makes it intrin-
sically criminal in either nation, or in the subjects of either, to
engage in actual hostilities against the other. The sovereign of
each nation is bound to prevent this by internal regulations and
measures; and of course to give redress where the offence has
been committed.

What has been agreed to be done in the present case, acknow-
ledges the distinction and establishes the consequences. While it
was refused to interfere to prevent the shipment of arms, it has
been agreed that measures should be taken towards punishing
our citizens who engaged on board the privateers ; and to assure
the British Minister that effectual measures would be taken, to
prevent a repetition of the thing complained of. Hence a recog-
nized distinction of principle, and a virtual recognition of the
consequences contended for.

As little to the purpose is the example of cases in which par-
ticular nations permit the levying of troops among them by the
parties at war. The almost continually warlike posture of Eu-
rope, can alone have produced the toleration of a practice so in-
consistent with morality and humanity ; but allowing these ex-
amples their full force ; they are at an infinite distance, from the
case of raising, equipping, and organizing, within the neutral ter-
ritory an armed force — sending it on expeditions against a party
at war, and bringing back their spoils into the neutral country.

If the view which has been taken of the subject, be a just one,

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 401

Great Britain will have a right to consider our refusal to cause
restitution to be made, as equivalent to our becoming an accom-
plice in the hostility — as a departure from neutrality — as an ag-
gression upon her. Hence we shall furnish the cause of war, and
endanger the existence of it.

I infer then, that we equally owe it to ourselves, and to Great
Britain, to cause restitution to be made of the property taken.
In the case of so palpable and serious a violation of our rights, ag-
gravated by several collateral circumstances, the mention of which
is purposely waived, a decided conduct appears most consistent
with our honor, and with our future safety.

A. Hamilton.

JEFFERSON TO WASHINGTON.

May 16, 1793.

The facts suggested, or to be taken for granted, because the
contrary is not known, in the case now to be considered, are, that
a vessel was purchased at Charleston, and fitted out as a privateer
by French citizens, manned with foreigners chiefly, but partly
with citizens of the United States, the command given to a
French citizen by a regular commission from his government,
that she has made prize of an English vessel in the open sea, and
sent her into Philadelphia. The British minister demands resti-
tution, and the question is whether the Executive of the United
States shall undertake to make it ?

This transaction may be considered, 1st, as an offence against
the United States ; 2d, as an injury to Great Britain.

In the first view it is not now to be taken up, the opinion
being that it is an act of disrespect to the jurisdiction of the
United States, of which proper notice is to be taken at a proper
time.

Under the second point of view, it appears to me wrong on
the part of the United States (where not constrained by treaties),
d 26

402 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

to permit one party in the present war to do what cannot be per-
mitted to the other. We cannot permit the enemies of France
to fit out privateers in our ports, by the twenty-second article of
our treaty ; we ought not, therefore, to permit France to do it, the
treaty leaving us free to refuse, and the refusal being necessary
to preserve a fair and secure neutrality. Yet considering that
the present is the first case which has arisen, that it has been in
the first moment of the war, in one of the most distant ports of
the United States, and before measures could be taken bv the
government to meet all the cases which may flow from the infant
state of our government and novelty of our position, it ought to
be placed by Great Britain among the accidents of loss to which
a nation is exposed in a state of war, and by no means as a pre-
meditated wrong on the part of the government. In this last
light it cannot be taken, because the act from which it results,
placed the United States with the offended, and not the offending
parties. Her minister has seen himself that there could have
been on our part neither permission nor connivance. A very
moderate apology then from the United States ought to satisfy
Great Britain. The one we have made already is ample, to wit,
a pointed disapprobation of the transaction, a promise to prose-
cute and punish according to law such of our citizens as have
been concerned in it, and to take effectual measures against a
repetition. To demand more, would be a wrong in Great
Britain : for to demand satisfaction beyond what is adequate, is a
wrong : but it is proposed further to take the prize from the captors
and restore her to the English. This is a very serious proposition.
The dilemma proposed in our conferences, appears to me un-
answerable. Either the commission to the commander of the
privateer was good, or not good. If not good, then the tribu-
nals of the country will take cognizance of the transaction,
receive the demand of the former owner, and make restitution of
the capture: and there being, on this supposition, a regular
remedy at law, it would be irregular for the government to inter-
pose. If the commission be good, then the capture having been
made on the high seas, under a valid commission from a power
at war with Great Britain, the British owner has lost all his right,

jEt.36.] cabinet papers. 403

and the prize would be deemed good even in his own courts,
were the question to be brought before his own courts ; he has
no more claim on the vessel than any stranger would have who
never owned her, his whole right being transferred by the law
of war to the captor.

The legal right then being in the captor, on what ground can
we take it from him ? Not on that of right, for the right has been
transferred to him. It can only be by an act of force, that is to
say, of reprisal for the offence committed against us in the port
of Charleston. But the making reprisal on a nation is a very
serious thing. Eemonstrance and refusal of satisfaction ought to
precede ; and when reprisal follows, it is considered as an act of
war, and never yet failed to produce it in the case of a nation
able to make war. Besides, if the case were important enough
to require reprisals, and ripe for that step, Gongress must be
called on to take it ; the right of reprisal being expressly lodged
with them by the Constitution, and not with the Executive.

I therefore think that the satisfaction already made to the
government of Great Britain is quite equal to what ought to be
desired in the present case ; that the property of the British
owner is transferred by the laws of war to the captor ; that for us
to take it from the captor would be an act of force or reprisal
which the circumstances of the case do not justify, and to which
the powers of the Executive are not competent by the Consti-
tution;

Th. Jefferson.

RANDOLPH TO WASHINGTON.

May 17, 1793.

The Attorney-General has the honor of submitting to the
President the following opinion :

It appears that a privateer has been equipped and commis-
sioned at Charleston, in South Carolina, under the authority of
the French government, and was at the same time manned in

404 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

part by American citizens ; that on the high seas she captured
an English vessel ; and that both of them are now in the port of
Philadelphia.

Kestitution is demanded by the British Minister from the
Executive.

If this be considered as a contest between France and Great
Britain, upon a mere question of prize or no prize, the 17th arti-
cle of our treaty with the former stands in the way of the inqui-
ry ; because it prohibits the officers of the United States "from
making examination concerning the lawfulness of such prizes ;" and
indeed the duty of a neutral nation shuts up its courts against
all such decisions.

It is therefore insisted, that something more than a mere
question of prize or no prize has arisen ; namely, that as the
commission was granted, and the privateer fitted out, and partly
manned with American citizens, within the United States, there
is an obligation on them to restore.

Is the commission void as to the enemy ? ISTo ; because the
etiquette of the place of granting it has never been heard of, as
an available plea, in their mouths ; and because if it had ever
been suspended during the stay of the vessel at Charleston, it
became active and lawful at the very moment that the privateer
entered upon the high sea. This aspect then of the case presents
no hope of restitution.

Let it be supposed, on the other hand, that the commission
was absolutely void. Of course the capture would be annulled.
But by whom ? Not by the President ; since the courts of 1^ie
United States are competent to adequate relief; and proceeding
according to the rules of the admiralty, they would consummate
the business with no great expense of time.

But let a further supposition be made ; that the commission
was good in part, and bad in part, or in other words, that, while
it would have authorized the capture, if only the enemy were
concerned, it was an affront and injury to the United States, to
grant it without their leave in their territory ; nay more, that
the capture has been the consequence of this improper conduct
in our country, and of the enlistment of our own citizens.

;Et.36.] cabinet papers. 405

"What relates to the dignity of the United States, is not an
affair of any foreign nation. If they thought proper to waive
satisfaction to themselves for the affront and injury, they cannot
be called to an account by any foreign power ; and if they do re-
quire satisfaction, its degree and kind depend upon their discre-
tion. But it has been unanimously agreed to advise the Presi-
dent to direct a remonstrance to Mr. Genet against what is past,
and a repetition of it in future, so that the dignity of the gov-
ernment will be asserted.

The punishment of the citizens who have entered on board
of the privateer may, in some measure, be a justice due to the
powers warring against France. Accordingly the President is
also unanimously advised, that the prosecutions be instituted, as
far as the law will go. If the person who received the commis-
sion be a citizen, he is a pirate under the treaty with Holland.
The rest of the crew, who may be citizens, are conceived by a
majority of the gentlemen to be guilty of a misdemeanor; and
all of them are of opinion, that in a doubtful point, which cannot
be ascertained too soon, the sentiments of some court ought to be
immediately obtained. For, although the experiment should
miscarry, it will vindicate the sincerity of our neutrality.

The only remaining ground, upon which restitution has been
pressed, is, that for this unlawful act, thus begun in our territory,
and completed with the assistance of our own citizens, the United
States are answerable to Great Britain. It has not been denied,
that, as between the French captor and the British owner, the
capture is lawful ; nor can it be affirmed, that the United States
are in any other manner, responsible for the offences of their
citizens, than to bring them to punishment. To say then that
Great Britain can impose upon the United States a certain rule
and measure of procuring satisfaction for the insult by requiring
the surrender of the vessel and restitution to the British subject,
is to admit an unwarrantable intrusion into their internal police.
If the omission to demand the vessel be a cause of offence, it
must be, because the acquiescence of the United States in a too
moderate retribution will indicate a partiality in the temper of
the United States. Should this be suspected, notwithstanding

406 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

the real proofs to the contrary, it may be repelled by other con-
siderations. France has her rights as well as Great Britain.
Although she will be content to offer concessions to the United
States, yet might she justly refuse to do so, if our estimate of the
reparation was compounded, not only of the indignity to them,
but also of the loss to the British subject. At least she might
with reason denominate it a departure from strict neutrality. It
may deserve attention too, what infinite trouble the United States
would carve out to themselves, if they once commence the office
of adjusting the validity of commissions between the warring
powers. If a commission, perfect in every thing, except the
place of issuing it, be a ground of restitution, it will be an easy
matter to stretch the authority of the United States by little and
little, until they become self-constituted into a tribunal for de-
ciding the validity of prizes : a function, w hich is utterly inad-
missible to a neutral nation.

The situation of the United States is extremely peculiar.
They are bound to pursue a different conduct to the different
warring powers. To France, they must give the preference by
treaty ; to Holland, they must assign the next rank of favor by
treaty ; Great Britain stands upon the law of nations, pure and
unqualified. Hence in this disparity of relations they will be
often thrown into great perplexities. Nothing can lead them
with safety and honor through the labyrinth, but an adherence
to sound principle, which is always uniform.

Upon principle therefore, restitution ought not, in my judg-
ment, to be attempted.

Edm. Randolph.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

May 25, 1793.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the Pre-
sident ; submits the draft of an Act relative to the points lately
determined upon by the President.

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 407

By the President of the United States.

An Act making allowance for certain services and contingencies
in the collection of the Eevenue during the year ending on
the 30th day of June, 1792.

Whereas it has been found necessary to provide a compensa-
tion for the legal admeasurement of Stills during the year ending
on the 30th day of June, 1792, it is hereby established and de-
clared, that there may and shall be allowed to the Collectors of
the Revenue on spirits distilled in the United States and upon
Stills, for each and every Still by them respectively measured
according to law on or before the said 30th day of June, 1792,
the sum of thirty cents.

And whereas it has also been found necessary that certain
services and expenses of divers officers of inspection, and persons
actually employed in the business of the Revenue which have un-
avoidably arisen out of the first operations of the Act of the 3d
day of March, 1791, and in the year aforesaid, and certain com-
pensations to the same should be allowed and defrayed.

The Supervisors of the Revenue for the several Districts here-
inafter mentioned are hereby authorized to allow to the officers
and persons employed within their respective Districts, for servi-
ces and duties actually by them performed, and expenses paid
during the year aforesaid, and not yet compensated or defrayed,
the sums set against the said Districts respectively — that is to
say-
In the District of South Carolina a sum not exceeding 600 dollars,

In the District of North Carolina, 100 "

In the District of Virginia, 350 "

In the District of Maryland, 150 "

In the District of Delaware, 150 "

In the District of Pennsylvania, 300 "

In the District of New-York, 400 "

In the District of Connecticut, 200 "

Given under my hand at Philadelphia on the 25th day of
May, 1793.

Geo. Washington.

408 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

CABINET OPLNTIOX.

May 29th; 1793.

The President of the United States having assembled the
heads of the respective departments and the Attorney General,
laid before them for their advice thereon, sundry communications
from the Governor of Georgia, and others, relatively to the re-
cent alarming depredations of the Creek Indians upon the State
of Georgia.

"Whereupon after the subject was maturely considered and
discussed, it was unanimously advised,

That the Governor of Georgia be informed that from consider-
ations relative to foreign powers, and the pending treaty with the
Northern Indians, it is deemed advisable for the present, to
avoid offensive expeditions into the Indian country. But from
the nature of the late appearances, it is thought expedient to in-
crease the force to be kept up for defensive purposes. The President
therefore authorizes the calling into, and keeping in service, in
addition to the troops heretofore stationed in Georgia, one hun-
dred horse, and one hundred infantry, to be employed in repel-
ling inroads, as circumstances shall require. As it does not yet
appear that the whole nation of the Creeks is engaged in hostil-
ity, it is considered that this force will be sufficient for the object
designated. The case of a serious invasion of the territory of
Georgia, by large bodies of Indians, must be referred to the pro-
visions of the Constitution. The proceeding with efficacy in fu-
ture, requires absolutely, that no unnecessary expense should be
incurred in the mean time.

The above corps of horse to be raised for any period of time,
not exceeding twelve months, as may be found most practicable ;
subject to be dismissed at any time sooner, as the government
may think fit. The infantry to be called into service, according
to the course of the militia laws, endeavoring to secure their con-
tinuance in service for the like term.

That General Pickens be invited to repair to the seat of gov-
ernment, for the purpose of information and consultation — a

Mt. 36.] ABINET PAPERS. 4(39

proper compensation for his expenses and loss of time to be
allowed.

That a further supply of one thousand arms, with correspond-
ent accoutrements, be forwarded to the State of Georgia. Arms
and accoutrements for the cavalry to be also provided and
forwarded.

That an agent be sent to the Creeks, to endeavor to adjust
the surrender of those Indians who have lately committed mur-
ders on the citizens of Georgia; to conciliate and secure such
of the Indians as may be well-disposed to the United States, in
the event of a war with the Creek nation ; and, if possible, to

prevent that extremity.

Th. Jefferson,

H. Knox,

Edm. Kandolph,
Alexander Hamilton.

CABINET OPINION.

June 1, 1793.

That an agent be sent to the Choctaw nation, to endeavor
secretly to engage them to support the Chickasaws in their
present war with the Creeks — giving them, for that purpose,
arms and ammunition sufficient; and that it be kept in view,
that if we settle our differences amicably with the Creeks, we
at the same time mediate effectually the peace of the Chicka-
saws and Choctaws ; so as to rescue the former from the diffi-
culties in which they are engaged, and the latter from those into
which we may have been instrumental in engaging them.

Th. Jefferson,
H. Knox.

Although I approve of the general policy of employing In-
dians against Indians, yet I doubt, greatly, whether it ought to
be exercised under the particular existing circumstances with

410 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

Spain ; who may hold herself bound to take the part of the
Creeks, and criminate the United States for some degree of in-
sincerity.

Edm. Kandolph.

My judgment balanced a considerable time on the proposed
measure ; but it has at length decided against it, and very ma-
terially, on the ground, that I do not think the United States
can honorably or morally, or with good policy, embark the
Choctaws in the war, without a determination to extricate them
from the consequences, even by force. Accordingly it is pro-
posed, that in settling our differences with the Creeks, " we
mediate effectually the peace of the Chickasaws and Choctaws ;"
which I understand to mean, that we are to insist with the
Creeks on such terms of peace for them as shall appear to us
equitable ; and if refused, will exert ourselves to procure them by
arms. I am unwilling, all circumstances foreign and domestic
considered, to embarrass the government with such an obli-
gation.

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

Treasury Department, June 3d, 1793.

Sir:

It was not till within an hour that I received your letter of
the 1st, with the papers accompanying it. I approve all the
drafts of letters as they stand, except that I have some doubts
about the concluding sentence, of that on the subject of Hen-
field. If the facts are (as I presume they are) established, may
it not be construed into a wish, that there may be found no law
to punish a conduct in our citizens, which is of a tendency dan-
gerous to the peace of the nation, and injurious to powers with
whom we are on terms of peace and neutrality ?

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 411

I should also like to substitute, for the words, "have the
favorable issue you desire," these words, " issue accordingly."

I retain, till to-morrow, the paper relating to an agent to the
Choctaws. My judgment is not entirely made up on the point —
the state of my family and my own health having prevented due
reflection upon it.

With great respect, I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, June 3. 1793.

Sir:

The failure of the late enterprise against the United Nether-
lands, may be expected to have made a favorable alteration in
regard to the prospect of obtaining loans there for the United
States. Such an expectation is also countenanced by a late let-
ter from our bankers at Amsterdam, which, however, as yet
gives no certainty that can be a basis of operation.

The existing instructions from the department do not extend
beyond three millions of florins. A comprehensive view of the
affairs of the United States in various relations, appears to me to
recommend a still further loan, if attainable. Yet I do not think
it advisable to take that step, in virtue of the general powers
from you, without your special approbation, particularly as there
is little probability that the loan can be effected on better terms
than five per cent, interest, and four per cent, charges. The fur-
ther loan which I should contemplate, would embrace three
millions florins.

With perfect respect and truest attachment, I have the honor
to be, &c.

412 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

JEFFERSON TO WASHINGTON.

June 5, 1793.

Instructions having been given to borrow two millions of
florins in Holland, and the Secretary of the Treasury proposing
to open a further loan of three millions of florins, which he says
"a comprehensive view of the affairs of the United States in va-
rious relations appear to recommend," the President is pleased
to ask whether I see any objections to the proposition.

The power to borrow money is confided to the President by
the two acts of the 4th and 12th of August, '90 ; and the moneys
when borrowed, are appropriated to two purposes only, to wit :
the twelve millions to be borrowed under the former, are appro-
priated to discharge the arrears of interest and instalments of the
foreign debt, and the two millions under the latter to the pur-
chase of the public debt, under the direction of the Trustees of the
Sinking Fund.

These appropriations render very simple the duties of the
President in the discharge of this trust. He has only to look to
the payment of the foreign debt, and purchase of the general
one ; and in order to j uclge for himself of the necessity of the
loan proposed for effecting these two purposes, he will need from
the Treasury the following statements :

A. A statement of the nett amount of the loans already
made under these acts, adding to that the two millions of florins
now in a course of being borrowed. This will form the debit of
the trust. The credit side of the account will consist of the fol-
lowing statements, to wit :

B. Amount of the principal and interest of foreign debt paid
and payable to the close of 1792.

C. Ditto, payable to the close of 1793.

D. Ditto, payable to the close of 1794, (for I think our pre-
parations should be a year beforehand.)

E. Amount of moneys necessary for the sinking fund to the
end of the year 1794.

If the amount of the four last articles exceeds the first, it will

>Et. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 413

prove a further loan necessary to that extent. The Treasury
alone can furnish these statements with perfect accuracy ; but to
show that there is probable cause to go into the examination,
I will hazard a statement from materials, which though not
perfectly exact, are not much otherwise. [Statement.]

By this statement it would seem as if all the payments to
France, hitherto made and ordered, did not quite acquit the year
1792, so that we have never yet been clear of arrears to her.
The amount of the French debt is stated according to the Con-
vention, and the interest is calculated accordingly. Interest on
the ten million loan is known to have been paid for the years
'84, '85, and is therefore deducted. It is not known whether it
was paid in the same loan for the years '86, '7, '8, '9, previous to
the payment of December 3d, '90, or whether it was included in
that payment. Therefore this is not deducted ; but if in fact it
was paid before that day, it will then have lessened the debt so
much, to wit, 400,000 livres a year for four years, making it
1,600,000 livres — 290,000 dollars, which sum would put us in
advance near half of the instalments of 1793. Xote. Livres are
estimated at 18TyV cents, proposed by the Secretary of the Trea-
sury to the French ministry as the par of the metals, to be the
rate of conversion.

This uncertainty with respect to the true state of the account
with France, and the difference of the result from what has been
understood, shows that the gentlemen who are to give opinions
on this subject, must do it in the dark, and suggests to the Pre-
sident the propriety of having an exact statement of the account
with France communicated to them, as the ground on which they
are to give opinions. It will probably be material in that about
to be given on the late application of Mr. Genet, on which the
Secretary is preparing a report.

414 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

June 5th, 1793.

The Secretary of the Treasury, to whom were referred by the
President of the United States, sundry documents communicated
by the Minister Plenipotentiary of the Eepublic of France,
respectfully makes the following report thereupon :

The object of the communication appears to be to engage the
United States to enter into arrangements for discharging the
residue of the debt which they owe to France by an anticipated
payment of the instalments not yet due, either in specie, bank
bills of equal currency with specie, or in government bonds,
bearing interest, and payable at certain specified periods, upon
condition that the sum advanced shall be invested in productions
of the United States for the supply of the French dominions.

This object is the same which came under consideration on
certain propositions lately made by Col. W. S. Smith, who
appeared to have been charged by the Provisional Executive
Council of France with a negotiation concerning it ; in reference
to which it was determined by the President, with the concurring
opinions of the heads of departments, and the Attorney- General,
that the measure was ineligible, and that the proposer would be
informed that it did not consist with the arrangements of the
government to adopt it.

The grounds of the determination were purely political —
nothing has hitherto happened to weaken them. The decision
on the application of the Minister Plenipotentiary of France,
will therefore naturally correspond with that on the propositions
of Col. Smith. This, indeed, is signified to be the intention of
the President.

It consequently only remains to make known the determina-
tion to the minister, in answer to his application, with or without
reasons.

The following considerations seem to recommend a simple
communication of the determination without reasons, viz. :

I. The United States not being bound by the terms of their

At. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 415

contract to make the anticipated payments desired — there is no
necessity for a specification of the motives for not doing it.

II. No adequate reasons but the true ones can be assigned
for the non-compliance, and the assignment of these would not
be wholly without inconvenience. The mention of them might
create difficulties in some future stage of affairs, when they may
have lost a considerable portion of their force.

The following answer in substance, is presumed then to be
the most proper which can be given :

" That a proposition to the same effect was not long since
brought forward by Col. Smith, as having been charged with a
negotiation on the subject, by the Provisional Executive Council
of France. That it was then, upon full consideration, concluded
not to accede to the measure, for reasons which continue to ope-
rate, and consequently lead at this time to the same conclusion,
that an explanation of these reasons would with pleasure be
entered into, were it not for the considerations that it could have
no object of present utility, and might rather serve to occasion
embarrassments in future."

Which is humbly submitted.

A. Hamilton.

The above having been communicated by the President to
me, I wrote the following letter.

Thomas Jefferson.

JEFFERSON TO WASHINGTON.

June G, 1793.

Sir:

I cannot but think that to decline the propositions of Mr.
Genet, on the subject of our debt, without assigning any reason
at all, would have a very dry and unpleasant aspect indeed.
We are then to examine what are good reasons for the refusal,
which of them may be spoken out, and which not.

416 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

1. Want of confidence in the continuance of the present form
of government, and consequently the advance to them might
commit us with their successors. This cannot be spoken out.

2. They propose to take the debt in produce. It would be
better for us that it should be done in moderate masses, yearly,
than in one year. This cannot be professed.

3. When Mr. de Calonne was Minister of Finance, a Dutch
Company proposed to buy up the whole of our debt, by dividing
it into actions or shares. I think Mr. Claviere, now Minister of
Finance, was their agent. It was observed to Mr. De Calonne, that
to create such a mass of American paper, divide it into shares, and
let them deluge the market, would depreciate them, the rest of
our paper, and our credit in finance ; that the credit of a nation
was a delicate and important thing, and should not be risked in
such an operation. Mr. De Calonne, sensible of the injury of the
operation to us, declined it. In May, 1791, there came through
Mr. Otto a similar proposition from S. J. & Co. We had received
letters on the subject from Mr. Short, urging this same reason
strongly. It was referred to the Secretary of the Treasury, who
in a letter to yourself, assigned the reasons against it, and these
were communicated to Mr. Otto, who acquiesced in them. This
objection then having been sufficient to decline the proposition
twice before, and having been urged to the two preceding forms
of government (the ancient, and that of 1791), will it not be
considered by them as founded in objections to the present form ?

4. The law allows the whole debt to be paid only on condi-
tion it can be done on terms advantageous to the United States.
The minister foresees this objection, and thinks he answers it by
observing the advantage which the payment in produce will
occasion. It would be easy to show that this was not the sort of
advantage the legislature meant, but a lower rate of interest.

5. I cannot but suppose that the Secretary of the Treasury,
who is much more familiar than I am with the money operations of
the Treasury, would, on examination, be able to derive practical
objections from them. We pay to France but five per cent.
The people of this country would never subscribe their money
but for six. If to remedy this obligation at less than five per

^Et. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 417

cent, were offered and accepted by Mr. Genet, he must part with
them immediately at a considerable discount to indemnify the
loss of the one per cent., and at a still greater discount, to bring
them down to par with our present six per cents., so that the
operation would be equally disgraceful to us and losing to them,
&c, &c.

I think it very material myself to keep alive the friendly
sentiments of that country, as far as can be done, without risking
war or double payments. If the instalments falling due in this
year, can be advanced without incurring more dangers, I should
be for doing it. We now' see by the declaration of the Prince
of Saxe Coburg, on the part of Austria and Prussia, that the
ultimate point they desire is to restore the Constitution of 1791.
Were this even to be done before the pay days of this year,
there is no doubt in my mind but that that government (as re-
publican as the present except in the form of its Executive)
would confirm an advance so moderate in sum and time.

I am sure the nation of France would never suffer their gov-
ernment to go to war with us for such a bagatelle, and the more
surely if that bagatelle shall have been granted by us so as to
please and not to displease the nation, so as to keep their affections
engaged on our side ; so that I should have no fear in advancing
the instalments of this year at epochs convenient to the Treasury,
but at any rate I should be for assigning reasons for not changing
the form of the debt.

These thoughts are very hastily thrown on paper, and will be
but too evident. I have the honor to be, with sentiments of sin-
cere attachment and respect, sir,

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Th. Jefferson.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

The President concurring with the preceding letter, and so
signifying to Col. Hamilton, he erased the words, "which is
D 27

418 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

humbly submitted," in the former report, and added in the same
paper as follows :

" If, nevertheless, the President should be of opinion that
reasons ought to be assigned, the following seem to be the best
which the nature of the case will admit, viz. :

" Two modes of reimbursing or discharging by anticipation
the residue of the debt which the United States owe to France,
are proposed.

" The first, by a payment in specie, or bank bills having cur-
rency equal with specie, which amounts to the same thing.

" The second, by government bonds, bearing interest, and
payable at certain specified periods.

"With regard to the first expedient, the resources of the
Treasury of the United States do not admit of its being adopted.
The government has relied for the means of reimbursing the
foreign debt of the country on loans to be made abroad ; the late
events in Europe have thrown a temporary obstacle in the way
of these loans, producing an inability to make anticipated pay-
ments of sums hereafter to grow due.

" With regard to the second expedient, it has repeatedly come
under consideration, and has uniformly been declined as ineligi-
ble. The government has perceived and continues to perceive
great inconvenience to its credit, tending to the derangement of
its general operations of finance, in every plan which is calcu-
lated to throw suddenly upon the market a large additional sum
of its bonds. The present state of things, for obvious reasons,
would serve to augment the evil of such a circumstance ; while
the existing and possible exigencies of the United States ad-
monish them to be particularly cautious, at the present juncture,
of any measure which may in any degree serve to impair or
hazard their credit.

" These considerations are the more readily yielded to, from a
belief that the utility of the measure to France might not, on ex-
periment, prove adequate to the sacrifices which she would have
to make on the sale of the bonds.

"All which is humbly submitted."

This being put into my hands by the President, I wrote the
following note.

JSt.36.] cabinet papers. 419

JEFFERSON TO WASHINGTON.

January 17, 1793.
Th. Jefferson has the honor of returning to the President the
Eeport of the Secretary of the Treasury on the proposition of
Mr. Genet. He is of the opinion that all may be omitted which
precedes the words, " Two modes of reimbursing," &c, which
follows " of the reasons that are proper and not offensive." The
following passage should perhaps be altered: "It has repeatedly
come under consideration, and has uniformly been declined as
ineligible." The present proposition varies from that repeatedly
offered in the circumstances which are of some importance, and
is accordingly made by the minister, viz., the offer to take the

in the produce of the United States. A very
slight alteration will qualify this expression — thus
to the fact without abating the force of the argument.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 6th, 1793.

Sir:

Upon a mature consideration of your communication to me
of the 3d instant, recommending a still further loan in Holland,
if obtainable, to the amount of &, 000, 000 florins, and stating that
in case the recommendation should meet my ideas, my special
approbation thereof would be proper ; I have thought it neces-
sary, in order to make the subject clear to my mind before any
steps are taken in it, to request you to give me information on
the following points, viz. :

1st. Whether all the moneys borrowed under the acts of the
4th and 12th of August, 1790, have been expended on their re-
spective objects ? If not, what is the balance ?

2d. Under which of the two laws do you propose that a loan
should be opened ?

420 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

3d. If under one or the other, or both, what is the balance

remaining unborrowed of the two sums allowed to be borrowed?

4th. To what use is the money proposed to be borrowed, to

be applied?

George Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department. 8th June3 1793.

Sir:

I have the honor to send you a report on the communication
from the Minister Plenipotentiary of France, respecting the re-
imbursement of the residue of the debt of the United States
to that country, altered in conformity to your desire; and to
be, with perfect respect, &c.

Alexander Hamilton.

Treasury Department. June 8th, 1793.

The Secretary of the Treasury, to whom was referred a com-
munication from the Minister Plenipotentiary of the Eepublic of
France, on the subject of the debt of the United States to France,
respectfully makes thereupon the following report :

The object of this communication is to engage the United
States to enter into an arrangement for discharging the residue
of the debt which they owe to France by an anticipated pay-
ment of the instalments not yet due, either in specie or bank
bills of equal currency with specie, or in government bonds
bearing interest and payable at certain specified periods, upon con-
dition that the sum advanced shall be invested in productions of
the United States for the supply of the French dominions.

With regard to the first expedient, namely, a payment in
specie or bank bills, the resources of the Treasury of the United
States do not admit of its being adopted. The government has
relied for the means of reimbursing its foreign debt on new loans

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 421

to be made abroad. The late events in Europe have thrown a
temporary obstacle in the way of these loans — producing conse-
quently an inability to make payment, by anticipation of the
residue of the debt hereafter to grow due.

With regard to the second expedient, that of government-
bonds payable at certain specified periods, this in substance,
though in other forms, has repeatedly come under consideration,
and has as often been declined as ineligible. Great inconveniences
to the credit of the government, tending to derange its general
operations of finance, have been and must continue to be per-
ceived, in every plan which is calculated to throw suddenly upon
the market a large additional sum of its bonds. The present
state of things, for obvious reasons, would serve to augment the
evil of such a circumstance ; while the existing and possible ex-
igencies of the United States admonish them to be particularly
cautious, at this juncture, of any measure which may tend to
hazard or impair their credit.

These considerations greatly outweigh the advantage, which
is suggested as an inducement to the measure, (the condition
respecting which, is the principal circumstance of difference be-
tween the present and former propositions,) to arise from an
investment of the sum to be advanced in the products of the
country ; an advantage on which perhaps little stress can be
laid, in the present and probable state of foreign demand for
those products.

The motives which dissuade from the adoption of the pro-
posed measure, may, it is conceived, be the more readily yielded
to from the probability that the utility of it to France might not,
on experiment, prove an equivalent for the sacrifices, which she
might have to make in the disposition of the bonds.

422 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

Treasury Department, June 10, 1793.

Sir:

The Comptroller of trie Treasury has reported to me, that on
examining the subsisting contracts between the United States and
the government of France and the Farmers General, and a com-
parison thereof with the foreign accounts and documents trans-
mitted to the Treasury, the following facts appear.

That previous to the treaty of February, 1778, the sum of
three millions of livres had been advanced by the government of
France to the agents of the United States, under the title of gra-
tuities, for which no reimbursement was to be made.

That the payments, which composed the before-mentioned
sum of three millions of livres, are stated, in a letter of Mr. Duri-
val to Mr. Grand, dated in 1786, to have been made at the fol-
lowing periods :

One million delivered by the Eoyal Treasury the 10th of June,
1776, and two other millions advanced also by the Eoyal Trea-
sury in 1777, on four receipts of the Deputies of Congress, of the
17th of January, 3d of April, 10th of June, and 15th of October
of the same year.

In the accounts of Mr. Ferdinand Grand, banker of the
United States, the following sums are credited, viz.

1777, January 31, 500,000 livres.

April 26, 500,000

June 4, 1,(300,000

July 3, 500,000

October 10, . . . . . 500,000

Amount in the whole, .... 3,000,000 livres.

The Farmers General of France claim a large balance from
the United States, on account of one million of livres, which
they contend was advanced in June, 1777, in consequence of a
special contract with Messrs. Franklin and Deane, to be repaid
by the delivery of tobacco at certain stipulated prices, and the

^t. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 423

advance .made by the Farmers General is said to be the same
money as is credited by Mr. Grand on the 4th of June, 1777.

After a careful examination of the foreign accounts, it is found
that no more than three millions of livres have been credited by
any agent of the United States.

An opinion "was entertained by the late officers of the Treasury,
that the sum claimed by the Farmers General composed a part of
the sum supplied as gratuitous aid by the government. Subse-
quent explanations have, however, rendered it probable, that in-
cluding the claim of the Farmers General, the sum of four mil-
lions of livres were in fact received ; it is, however, indispensable
that it should be known to whom the money was paid.

The most direct mode of obtaining this information will be, to
call for copies of the receipts mentioned in Mr. Durival's letter of
1786, and more particularly a copy of that said to have been given
on the 10th of June, 1776.

And as explanatory of the transaction, he has sent me the
documents herewith transmitted.

The most likely conjecture, in my mind, considering the pe-
riod of the advance, and the circumstances of that period, is, that
the unaccounted for million went into the hands of M. de Beau-
marchais. The supplies which he furnished to the United States
exceeded his own probable resources, besides the imprudence of
having hazarded so much at that stage of our affairs upon our
ability to pay. And there were many symptoms, at the time, of
his having been secretly put in motion by the government.

It has now become urgent that the truth of the case should be
known. An account has recently passed the auditor's office, ad-
mitting in favor of M. de Beaumarchais a balance of four hun-
dred and twenty-two thousand two hundred and sixty-five dol-
lars and thirteen cents, with a reservation only of the question
of the million. If he has received that million which has been ac-
knowledged as a free gift from the French government, it is un-
just that he should be able to establish a claim against the United
States for supplies which must have been the proceeds of that
sum. If he has never received the million, every day's suspen-
sion of his claim, after the immense delays heretofore incurred, is

424 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

a grievous hardship upon him. It concerns materially tJie inter-
ests, and more the justice, the credit, and the character of the
United States, that as speedy a solution as possible of the enigma
may be obtained.

With a view to this, I have the honor to make you the pre-
sent communication, that you may be pleased to take such steps
as shall appear to you the most proper and efficacious to procure,
as speedily as the nature of the case will admit, the requisite ex-
planations.

CABINET OPINION.

June 12, 1793.
The President having required the opinions of the heads of
the three departments on a letter from Governor Clinton of the
9th inst., stating that he had taken possession of the sloop Polly,
now called the Republican, which was arming and equipping and
manning by French and other citizens to cruise against some of
the belligerent powers, and desiring to know what further was to
be done, and they having met and deliberated thereon, are unan-
imously of opinion that Governor Clinton be desired to deliver
over to the civil power the said vessel and her appurtenances, to
be dealt with according to law; and that the Attorney of the
United States for the district of New- York be desired, to have
such proceedings at law instituted as well concerning the said ves-
sel and her appurtenances, as against all the persons, citizens, or
aliens participating in the armament or object thereof, as he shall
think will be most effectual for punishing the said offenders, and
preventing the said vessel and appurtenances from being applied
to the destined purpose ; and that if he shall be of opinion that no
judiciary process will be sufficient to prevent such application of
the vessel to the hostile purpose intended, that then the Governor
be desired to detain her by force till the further advice of the
general government can be taken.

^t. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 425

The President having also required the same opinions on the
memorial of the British Minister of the 11th inst., on the subject
of the British brigantine Catharine, captured by the French fri-
gate the Embuscade within the limits of the protection of the
United States, as is said, and carried into the harbor of New York,
they are of opinion unanimously, that the Governor of New
York be desired to seize the said vessel in the first instance, and
then deliver her over to the civil power, and that the Attorney
of the United States for the District of New York be instructed
to institute proceedings at law in the proper court, for deciding
whether the said capture was made within the limits of the pro-
tection of the United States, and for delivering her up to her
owners if it be so decided ; but that if it shall be found that no
court may take cognizance of the said question, then the said ves-
sel to be detained by the Governor until the further orders of the
general government can be had thereon.

Th. Jefferson,

H. Knox,

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, June 15th. 1793.

Sir:

The inclosed report will, I trust, make it appear, that there
are good reasons relative to the execution of the purposes speci-
fied in the laws for making a further loan to the extent pro-
posed.

But, bottoming the proceeding upon the direct object of the
laws, as the legal and primary inducement, it appears to me
justifiable and wise to embrace, as secondary and collateral
motives, the probable operation of the measure on the public
interests, in ways not immediately indicated in the laws. On

426 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

this ground, I think the legal considerations for a further loan
are enforced by the general state of affairs at the present
juncture.

Should a general Indian war ensue, and, still more, should
we unfortunately be involved in a European war, nothing could
be more convenient than to have anticipated such a resource,
which the legislature might apply to the new exigencies, as far
as regards the purchase of the debt, without any violation of
principle.

In the event of a European war breaking out, it would
probably be too late to attempt what, beforehand, would be
practicable without difficulty.

With perfect respect, and the truest attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

Treasury Department, June 15th, 1793.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in obedience to the order of
the President of the United States, of the 6th inst., makes the
following report :

The statement herewith transmitted, marked A, shows in
the credit side thereof, the amount of the fund arising from
foreign loans transferred to the United States, amounting to
2,965,643 dollars and 17 cents; and on the debit side thereof,
the amount of the sums which have been actually disbursed,
and are in a course of disbursement, out of that fund, for spe-
cific purposes, being 2,400,159 dollars and 19 cents.

There of course remains for, and subject to, application,
according to the laws authorizing the loans, a balance of 565,484
dollars and 28 cents.

To this will be to be added, when ascertained, certain sums
of interest subsequent to the year 1790, which will have been
included in the payments to France and Spain, out of the pro-
ceeds of the foreign loans, and which will thereby have been

Mi. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 42?

virtually transferred to the United States — provision having
been made for that object out of domestic funds. The addition,
however, will not be large.

Hence results an answer to the first question stated by the
President.

In answer to the second question, the Secretary has the
honor to observe, that it would be, in his opinion expedient,
for the reason which has governed hitherto — the convenience of
which has been fully experienced, namely, the power of apply-
ing the fund to the purposes of either law, according to circum-
stances— that the proposed loan should be made upon the au-
thority of both acts, and not upon the separate authority of
either of them.

The following summary answers the third question pro-
posed :

The sum allowed to be borrowed, by the two acts of the 4th
and 12th of August, 1790, is 14,000,000 dollars. The whole
amount of the loans hitherto made, is 19,550,000 guilders —
equal to 3t6t nineteenths of a dollar per guilder to 7,898,989
dollars and 88 cents. Consequently the balance remaining un-
borrowed, of the sums allowed to be borrowed, is 6,101,010 dol-
lars and 12 cents, which leaves much more than a sufficient
latitude for a loan of 3,000,000 of florins, in addition to that for
2,000,000 already directed, and probably set on foot.

The immediate main object of this further loan would be,
the purchase of the debt.

The instalments of the debt to France falling due in Septem-
ber and November next, and the interest for a year upon so
much of the debt as, by the terms of the contract, would fall
due after the present time, amount to 3,335,000 livres, or
605,308 dollars and 50 cents; which, if to be wholly paid, will
more than absorb the balance on hand of the foreign fund.

Supposing the application of the balance to that purpose,
there would remain to be borrowed, for the purpose of purchases
of the debt, 1,715,098 dollars.

The two millions of guilders already directed to be borrowed,
and the three millions the loan of which is proposed to be au-

428 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

thorized, would amount, together, to 2,020,202 dollars and 2
cents ; which would exceed the sum requisite for purchases of
the debt by 305,103 dollars and 91 cents.

But it is possible that events may arise which would render
it desirable to the United States to increase its payments to
France, as in that view also, to make such an excess not incon-
venient.

Besides that, on the 1st of June, 1794, another instalment of
the Dutch loan becomes .payable, and it is probable, if instruc-
tions to set on foot the loan should go at this time, the entire
payment of the sums subscribed to the loan would not be com-
pleted much sooner than June next. Add to this, that it is fre-
quently possible to get the periods of payment protracted.

It would have been fortunate, in every sense, if the state of
the Treasury had permitted the entering the market for pur-
chases in force ; but the detail which has been given, shows that
it could not have been done, under the obstacles which the state
of European affairs lately threw in the way of loans, without
materially hazarding the credit of the United States.

While it is prudent to wait till it is experimentally ascer-
tained that these obstacles have been removed by the change of
affairs, it is desirable to be provided, to the extent of the au-
thority given, with, means of prosecuting purchases.

It is probable that, for a considerable time to come, the
prices of stock will remain at the point which will render pur-
chases extremely advantageous.

The further consideration, which has been stated, with refer-
ence to France, and the next instalment of the Dutch loans, may
not be found unworthy of attention.

All which is respectfully submitted.

A. Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

;Et.36.] cabinet papers. 429

Account referred to in Report of 15th June, 1793.

Dr. State of Moneys transferred to the United States, out of the Proceeds

of Foreign Loins.

To this sum expended in purchases of the public debt, . . $284,901 89
To this sum paid, and to be paid to France, for the use of St.

Domingo, 726,000 00

To this sum paid, and to be paid to France, on account of the

three million of livres promised, 544,500 00

To this sum paid to France, for miscellaneous purposes, . . 49,400 00

To this sum paid, and to be paid to foreign officers, . . . 191,316 00
To this sum appropriated, for the 1st instalment due to the Bank

of the United States, 200,000 00

To this sum remitted to Europe, for paying an instalment due on

Is une, on the Dutch debt, 1,000,000 of guilders, at 36 ~

nineteenths per guilder, 404,040 48

5.400,159 19
Balance subject to future disposition, ..... 565,484 28

Pr, contra cr., 2,965,643 47

By this sum drawn for by Samuel Meredith, Treasurer, . . 2,305,769 13
By this sum applied in Amsterdam to the payment of interest, for
which provision was made out of domestic funds, and there-
by virtually drawn to the United States, 1,633.89 guilders
and 2 stivers, 36 T4T nineteenths per guilder, . . . 659.874 34

2.965,643 47

Treasury Department, June 15th, 1793.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

WASHINGTON TO JEFFERSON.

Philadelphia, June 1G. 17'

Dear Sir :

I should be glad if you would give the iuclosed report a pe-
rusal, and let me know if you think the reasons therein given
are sufficient to authorize the additional loan of three millions of

430 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

florins, applied for by the Secretary of the Treasury in a letter
which you have seen.

The answers contained in the report show the points on which
I required information from him. In addition to the motives
assigned in the report for borrowing the additional sum, there
are others (if the act of doing it is warranted by laAv), very
cogent in my mind, as inducements to the measure ; namely, the
uncertain result of the Indian treaty, the invasion of our southern
frontiers, and the peculiarly delicate situation in which we are
placed with respect to some of the belligerent powers, who, in
spite of all we can do, may involve us in a dispute with one or
more of them, in which case it might be too late for us to effect
a loan in Europe.

If the propriety of borrowing on the plan, and for the pur-
poses mentioned in the report, is clear in your mind, the report
may be returned by the bearer ; if not, any time before noon
to-morrow may do.

JEFFERSON TO WASHINGTON.

June 17, 1793.

I cannot see my way clear in the case in which the President
has been pleased to ask my opinion, but by recurring to these
leading questions :

Of the 7,898,999 dollars so borrowed, or rather of the
7,543,912 dollars net proceeds thereof, how much has been
applied to the payment of the foreign and purchase of the

GENERAL debt?

To the balance thereof, which should be on hand, and the
two millions of florins now borrowed, is any addition necessary
for the same objects, for the years 1793, 1794?

The statement furnished by the Secretary of the Treasury
does not answer these questions. It only shows what has been
done with somewhat less than three millions out of near eight

^Et.36.] cabinet papers. 431

millions of dollars which have been borrowed, and in so doing it
takes credit for two sums which are not to come out of this fund,
and therefore not to be left in the account. They are the fol-
lowing :

1. A sum of 284,901 dollars 89 cents expended in purchases
of the public debt. In the general report of the trustees of the
sinking fund, made to Congress the 23d of February last and
printed, it appears, page 29, that the whole amount of moneys
laid out by them was 1,302,407 dollars 64 cents ; from which
were to be deducted, as is mentioned in the note there subjoined,
the purchases made out of the interest fund (then about 50,000
dollars, as well as I recollect), call the sum paid then 1,252,407
dollars 60 cents. By the Treasury Keport, page 38 (new edition),
it appears that the surplus of domestic revenue to the end of
1790, appropriated to this object, was 1,374,656 dollars 10 cents;
and page 34, that the moneys drawn from Europe on account of
the foreign loans, were not the instrument of these purchases ;
and in some part, to which I am not able now to turn, I recollect
pretty certainly that it is said these purchases were actually car-
ried to account, as was proper, against the domestic surplus;
consequently they are not to be allowed in the foreign account
also ; or if allowed in this, the sum will then be due from the
surplus account, and so must lessen the sum to be borrowed from
the sinking fund, which amounts to the same.

2. The first instalment due to the bank — 200,000 dollars.
Though the first payment of the subscription of the United States
to the bank might have been made on the first instant, out of the
foreign moneys, to be immediately repaid to them by the money
borrowed of the bank, yet this useless formality was avoided,
and it was a mere operation of the pen on paper, without the
displacement of a single dollar (see Report, page 12) ; and in any
event the final reimbursement was never to be made out of the
foreign fund, which was appropriated solely to the 'payment of the
foreign and 'purchase of the general debt. These two sums
therefore, of 284,901 dollars 89 cents and 200,000, are to be added
to the balance of 565,464 dollars 28 cents, subject to future dis-
position, and will make 1,050,386 dollars 17 cents actually here
and still to be applied to the proper appropriation.

432 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

However, this account, as before observed, being only of a
part of the moneys borrowed, no judgment can be formed from
it of the expediency of borrowing more ; nor should I have
stopped to make a criticism on it, but to show why no such sums
as the two above mentioned were inserted in the general account
sketched for the President, June 5. I must add, that the miscel-
laneous sum of 49,000 dollars in this account is probably covered
by some other articles of that, as far as it is chargeable in this
fund ; because that account, under one form or another, takes up
all the articles chargeable in this fund which had appeared in the
printed reports. I must therefore proceed to renew my state-
ment of June 5, inserting therein the first instalment of the Dutch
loan of 484,000 dollars 40 cents, payable this month, which not
having been mentioned in any of the reports heretofore publish-
ed, was noticed in no statement. I will add a like sum for the
year 1794, because I think we should now prepare for the
of that year

As the Secretary of the Treasury does not seem to contem-
plate the purchasing any fixed sum for the sinking fund, I shall
leave that article of the account, add

to its result any sum he may decide to have purchased to that
fund.

The Trust for Loans, Dr.

To net amount of loans to June 1, 1792, 755,912 dollars,
the loan now going for 2,000,000 florins,

Or.

By charges on remittances to France,

By reimbursement to Spain,

By interest paid to foreign officers,

By principal paid to foreign officers,

By amount of French debt, principal and interest, payable to

end of year 1791,
By do. for 179 >,
By do. for 1793,
By first instalment of Dutch debt, 1st June, 1793,

;Et. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 433

By instalments and interest to France for 1794,

By instalment to Holland for 1794,

Balance will then remain in hands of the Trust, §

So that it appears there will be a balance in the hands of the
Trust — the clear sum of 499,393 dollars 84 cents — were no mo-
neys to be furnished in the mean time to the sinking fund. But
should the President determine to furnish that, with the 90,000
dollars proposed in my statement of June 5, then a loan would
be necessary for about 405,000 dollars — in near round numbers,
1,000,000 of guilders, in addition to the two millions now bor-
rowing. I am, individually, of opinion that that sum ought to
be furnished to the sinking fund, and consequently that an addi-
tional loan to this extent should be made, considering the subject
in a legal point of view only. The reasons in favor of the exten-
sion are :

The apprehension of the extension of our war to other Indian
nations, and perhaps to Europe itself. The disability this might
produce to borrow at all [this is in my judgment a weighty con-
sideration].

The possibility the government of France may become so
settled, as that we may hazard the anticipation of payment, and
so avoid dead interest.

The reasons against it are :

The possibility that France may continue for some time yet
so unsettled as to render an anticipation of payments hazardous.

The risk of losing the capital borrowed, by a successful inva-
sion of the country of deposit, if it be left in Europe ; or by an
extension of the bankruptcies now shaking the most solid houses ;
and when and where they will end we know not.

Loss of interest on the dead sum, if the sum itself be safe.

The execution of a power for one object, which was given to
be executed for a very different one.

The commitment of the President, on this account, to events,
or to the criticisms of those who, though the measure should be
perfectly wise, may misjudge it through error or passion.

The apprehension that the head of the department means to
D 28

434 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

provide idle money to be lodged in the banks ready for the cor-
ruption of the next legislature, as it is believed the late ones
were corrupted, by gratifying particular members with vast dis-
counts for objects of speculation.

I confess that the last reasons have most weisfht with me.

o

[The blanks in this and the previous reports of Jefferson, are owing to the illegi-
bility of the original papers.]

CABINET OPINION.

June 17, 1793.

At a meeting of the heads of departments at the President's,
this day, on summons from him, a letter from Mr. Genet, of the
15th inst., addressed to the Secretary of State on the subject of
the seizure of a vessel by the Governor of New- York, as having
been armed, equipped, and manned in that port, with a design
to cruise on the enemies of France, was read, as also the
draft of an answer prepared by the Secretary of State, which was
approved.

Eead also a letter of June 14 th, from Mr. Hammond to the
Secretary of State, desiring to know whether the French priva-
teers, the Citizen Genet, and Sans Culottes, are to be allowed to
return, or send their prizes into the ports of the United States.
It is the opinion that he be informed that they were required to
depart to the dominions of their own sovereign, and nothing
expressed as to their ulterior proceedings ; and that in answer
to that part of the same letter, which states that the Sans Culottes
has increased its force in the port of Baltimore, and remains there
in the avowed intention of watching the motions of a valuable
ship now lying there, it be answered, that we expect the
speedy departure of those privateers will obviate the inconve-
niences apprehended, and that it will be considered whether any
practicable arrangements can be adopted, to prevent the aug-
mentation of the force of armed vessels.

Th. Jefferson,

H. Knox,
A. Hamilton.

^t. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 435

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 20th, 1793.

Sir:

I have received and paid attention to your report of the 15th
instant. The result is, that the loan of two millions of florins
ought, in my opinion, to be urged without delay, if it can be ob-
tained within the limitations of the law. The further proposal
of borrowing three millions of florins in addition, I shall, seeing
no inconvenience that will arise from the delay, take a few days
longer to consider ; as some reasons occur against, as well as for
the measure, in the present unsettled state of credit, and military
and other operations in Europe. x

In the mean time, it would contribute to my understanding of the
subject better, if you were to let me know how the whole sum bor-
rowed under the acts of the 4th and 12th of August, 1790, instead
of the sums which have been transferred to the United States, has
been applied ; and whether the two hundred thousand dollars
" first instalment to the Bank of the United States," is a legal
charge, under those acts, or any other, in the account A, referred
to in the report ; also, whether the two hundred and eighty -four
thousand nine hundred and one dollars and eighty-nine cents,
expended in the purchase of the public debt, do not appear in
the report of the commissioners of the sinking fund, or some
other report made to Congress last session, as appertaining more
properly to the surplus revenue.

I ask these questions for information ; because, if the answer
should be in the affirmative, the difference will be very material,
and when added to the balance of five hundred and sixty -five
thousand four hundred and eighty-four dollars and twenty-eight
cents, as per your statement A, would, with the two millions of
florins negotiating, cover all the ascertained demands upon the
United States for the years 1793 and 1794, exclusive of what
may be required for the sinking fund ; for which you have made
no specific appropriation whereby to form an estimate of the
aggregate sum required.

436 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, June 21, 1793.

Sie:

Considerations relative both to the public interest and to my
own delicacy, have brought me, after mature reflection, to a resolu-
tion to resign the office I hold, towards the close of the ensuing
session of Congress.

I postpone the final act to that period, because some propo-
sitions remain to be submitted by me to Congress, which are
necessary to the full development of my original plan, and, as I
suppose, of some consequence to my reputation ; and because, in
the second place, I am desirous of giving an opportunity, while
I shall still be in office, to the revival and more deliberate pro-
secution of the inquiry into my conduct, which was instituted
during the last session.

I think it proper to communicate my determination thus
early ; among other reasons, because it will afford full time to
investigate and weigh all the considerations which ought to
guide the appointment of my successor.

With the most perfect respect, I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

June 24, 1793.

Sir:

Pursuant to your requsition of the 20th instant, I have the
honor to submit a statement of the application of the whole of
the moneys borrowed by virtue of the acts of the 4th and 12th
of August. The precise accuracy of this statement cannot be
warranted, till there shall be a settlement at the Treasury of all
the accounts on which it depends (a business now in train). But
the items generally are so well ascertained as to leave no possi-
bility of any material error.

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 437

That the 200,000 dollars for the first instalment of the debt
due to the Bank of the United States is properly chargeable to
the foreign fund, will be seen by a recurrence to the act of the
2d March last, authorizing the payment of that instalment, which
act expressly directs that it shall be made out of the moneys
borrowed pursuant to the 4th section of the act entitled " An
act making provision for the reduction of the public debt," which
is the act of the 4th August, 1790, authorizing the borrowing of
two millions of dollars in order to purchases of the debt.

The 284,901 dollars and 89 cents, is equally a charge on the
same fund. It appears in no report to Congress at the last ses-
sion, or at any other time, as appertaining to the domestic fund
or surplus revenue. On the contrary, that sum is expressly
stated to have been issued out of the foreign fund in my third letter
to the House of Eepresentatives, dated February 13th, 1793
(page 55 of the printed copy herewith sent). For the more
complete elucidation of this fact, a certificate of the Register
of the Treasury is annexed, showing that the sum in question
was originally carried in the books of the Treasury to the ac-
count of the foreign fund.

In my report of the 15th instant, I stated that on the suppo-
sition of full payment to France of the instalments of September
and November next with interest, which would absorb the un-
applied balance of the foreign fund, there would remain to be
borrowed for the purpose of purchases of the debt, 1,715,098 dol-
lars 11 cents. This remainder is found by deducting the above-
mentioned sum of 284,901 dollars 89 cents (the sum expended
in purchases out of the foreign fund), from 2,000,000 of dollars,
the whole sum authorized to be borrowed for that purpose.

This sum, then, of 1,715,098 dollars 11 cents, is the sum still
to be procured to complete the views of the legislature with re
gard to the purchases ; and, if the present European war con-
tinues, may, in all probability, be invested with advantage as fast
as it can be commanded.

I have the honor to be, &c.

438 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

Dr. Account of loans made pursuant to the acts of the &th and 12th

August, 1790.

1790.
Total amount of loans, 19,550,000 guilders, equal at 36 ^ per

guilder to $7,898,989 88

Deduct amount of original charges respecting contracts, 872,000

guilders, at 36 £-, 352,323 24

Net product, > . $7,546,666 64

Contra Or.

Amount heretofore stated to have been transferred to United States, 2,965,643 47
Amount of payments made to France in Europe, and charges on

the same, 10,003,116 guilders 9 stivers, equal to . . 4,073,986 46
Debt to Spain in course of payment, estimated at 680,000 florins, 274,747 46
Interest on debt to foreign officers directed to be paid at Paris,

105,000 guilders, 42,424 24

Paid in Holland in premiums and gratuities on old Joans, commis-
sions and other extra charges, * 189.865 03

$7,546,666 66

A. Hamilton.

CABINET OPINION.

At a meeting held at the State House of the eit y of Philadel-
phia, July the 8th, 1793,
Present —

The Secretary of State,

The Secretary of the Treasury,

The Secretary at War —

It appeared, that a brigantine called the Little Sarah has
been fitted out at the port of Philadelphia, with fourteen cannon
and all other equipments, indicating that she is intended (as a
privateerf) to cruise under the authority of France, and that she

* The sum paid on these different objects is computed to exceed the sum stated,
by 72,265 florins, constituting a balance of so much in favor of the Commissioners,
t Omit the words ,: as a privateer."

jEt.36.] cabinet papers. 439

is now lying in the river Delaware at some place between this
city and Mud Island ; that a conversation has been had between
the Secretary of State and the Minister Plenipotentiary of France,
in which conversation the minister refused to give any explicit
assurance that the brigantine would continue until the arrival
of the President and his decision in the case ; but made declara-
tions respecting her not being ready to sail within the time of
the expected return of the President, from which the Secretary
of State infers with confidence, that she will not sail till the Pre-
sident will have an opportunity of considering and determining
the case. That in the course of the conversation, the minister
declared that the additional guns which had been taken in by
the Little Sarah were French property, but the Governor of
Pennsylvania has declared that he has good ground to believe
that at least two of her cannon were purchased here of citizens
of Philadelphia. The Governor of Pennsylvania asks advice
what steps, under the circumstances, he shall pursue.

The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of War are
of opinion, that it is expedient that immediate measures should be
taken provisionally for establishing a battery on Mud Island, un-
der cover of a party of militia, with discretion that if the brig Sarah
should attempt to depart before the pleasure of the President
shall be known concerning her, military coercion be employed to
arrest and prevent her progress.

The Secretary of State dissents from this opinion.

Th. Jefferson.

Information having also been received that part of the crew
of the Sarah are citizens of the United States, as can be testified
by Charles Biddle of this city,

The abovementioned heads of departments agree that this
information shall be communicated to the attorney of the dis-
trict, in order that, pursuant to his former instructions, he may
take measures for apprehending and bringing them to trial.

440 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

CABINET OPINION BY JEFFERSON.

July 8th, 1793.

I am against the preceding opinion of the Secretaries of the
Treasury and War, for ordering a battery to be erected on Mud
Island, and firing on the Little Sarah, an armed vessel of the Be-
public of France.

Because I am satisfied, from what passed between Mr. Genet
and myself at our personal interview yesterday, that the vessel
will not be ordered to sail till the return of the President, which,
by a letter of this day's post, we may certainly expect within
eight-and-forty hours from this time.

Because the erecting a battery, and mounting guns to prevent
her passage, might cause a departure not now intended, and pro-
duce the fact it is meant to prevent.

Because, were such battery and guns now in readiness, and
to fire on her, in the present ardent state of her crew, just in the
moment of leaving port, it is morally certain that bloody conse-
quences would follow ; no one can say how many lives would be
lost on both sides ; and all experience has shown, that, blood once
seriously spilled between nation and nation, the contest is con-
tinued by subordinate agents, and the door of peace is shut. At
this moment, too, we expect in the river 20 of their ships of war,
with a fleet of from 100 to 150 of their private vessels, which
will arrive at the scene of blood in time to continue it, if not to
partake in it.

Because the actual commencement of hostilities against a na-
tion (for such this act may be) is an act of too serious conse-
quence to our countrymen to be brought on their heads by sub-
ordinate officers, not chosen by them nor clothed with their
confidence, and too presumptuous on the part of those officers,
when the Chief Magistrate, into whose hands the citizens had
committed their safety, is within eight-and-forty hours of his ar-
rival here, and may have an opportunity of judging for himself
and them, whether the buying and carrying away two cannon
(for, according to information, they are not the nation's own

Mt.Z6.] CABINET PAPERS. 441

property) is sufficient cause of war between Americans and
Frenchmen.

Because, should the vessel, contrary to expectation, depart
before the President's arrival, the adverse powers may be told
the truth of the case ; that she went off contrary to what we had
a right to expect ; that we shall be justifiable in future cases to
measure our confidence accordingly; that for the present we
shall demand satisfaction from France, which, with the proofs of
good faith we have already given, ought to satisfy them. Above
all, Great Britain ought not to complain, for, since the date of
the order forbidding that any of the belligerent powers should
equip themselves in our ports with our arms, these two cannon
are all that have escaped the vigilance of our officers on the part
of their enemies, while their vessels have carried off more than ten
times the number without any impediment ; and if the suggestion
be true (and as yet it is but suggestion), that there are fifteen or
twenty Americans on board the Little Sarah, who have gone
with their own consent, it is equally true that more than ten
times that number of Americans are at this moment on board
English ships of war, who have been taken forcibly from our
merchant vessels at sea or in port, wherever met with, and com-
pelled to bear arms against the friends of their country. And is
it less a breach of our neutrality towards France to suffer Eng-
land to strengthen herself with our force, than towards England
to suffer France to do it ? and are we equally ready and disposed
to sink the British vessels in our ports, by way of reprisal for
this notorious and avowed practice ?

Because it is inconsistent for a nation which has been pa-
tiently bearing for ten years the grossest insults and injuries from
their late enemies, to rise at a feather against their friends and
benefactors, and that too in a moment when circumstances have
kindled the most ardent affections of the two people towards each
other, when the little subjects of displeasure which have arisen
are the acts of a particular individual, not yet important enough
to have been carried to his government as causes of complaint,
are such as nations of moderation and justice settle by negotia-
tion, not making war their first step ; and are such as that gov-

442 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JH*. 36.

ernment would correct at a word, if we may judge from the late
unequivocal demonstrations of their friendship towards us, and
are very slight shades of the acts committed against us by Eng-
land, which we have been endeavoring to rectify by negotiation,
and on which they have never condescended to give any answer
to our minister.

Because I would not gratify the combination of kings with
the spectacle of the two only republics on earth destroying each
other for two cannons ; nor would I, for infinitely greater cause,
add this country to that combination, turn the scale of contest,
and let it be from our hands that the hopes of men receive their
last stab.

It has been observed, that a general order has been already
given to stop by force vessels arming contrary to rule within our
ports, in which I concurred. I did so because it was highly pre-
sumable that the destination of such a vessel would be discovered
in some early stage, when there would be few persons on board,
these not yet disposed nor prepared to resist, and a small party
of militia put on board would stop the procedure without a
marked infraction of the peace. But it is a much more serious
thing when a vessel has her full complement of men (here said
to be 120), with every preparation, and probably with dispo-
sitions to go through with their enterprise. A serious engage-
ment is then a certain consequence. Besides, an act of force
committed by an officer in a distant port, under general orders,
given long ago, to take effect in all cases, and with less latitude
of discretion in him, would be a much more negotiable case than
a recent order, given by the general government itself (for that
is the character we are to assume) on the spot, in the very
moment pointed at this special case, possessing full discretion, and
not using it. This would be a stubborn transaction, not admitting
those justifications and explanations which might avert a war, or
admitting such only as would be entirely humiliating to the
officers giving the order, and to the government itself.

On the whole, respect to the Chief Magistrate, respect to our
countrymen, their lives, interests and affections — respect to a
most friendly nation, who, if we give them the opportunity, will

^t. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 443

answer our wrongs by correcting and not by repeating them —
respect to the most sacred cause that ever man was engaged in,
poising maturely the evils which may flow from the commit-
ment of an act which it would be in the power and probably in
the temper of subordinate agents to make an act of continued
war, and those which may flow from an eight-and-forty hours'
suspension of the act, — are motives with me for suspending it
eight-and-forty hours, even should we thereby lose the opportu-
nity of committing it altogether.

CABINET OPINION" — HAMILTON AND KNOX.

July 8, 1793.

Reasons for the opinion of the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Sec-
retary at War, respecting the Brigantine Sarah.

I. Because there can be no doubt, either upon principle or au-
thority, that the permitting or suffering, or what is equivalent,
the not taking effectual measures to prevent, when known, the
fitting out of privateers in our ports by one of the belligerent
Powers to cruise against any of the others, is an unequivocal
breach of neutrality.

II. Because the President, in conformity with an unanimous
opinion of the heads of the departments, and the Attorney-Gen-
eral, founded upon the above principle, has caused his disappro-
bation of the practice to be signified to the Ministers both of
Great Britain and France, accompanied with an express assurance
to the former, that effectual measures would be taken to prevent a
repetition of the practice.

III. Because consequently not to take such measures in the
present instance would be to depart from the declaration of neu-
trality, and to contravene the positive assurance given to the
Minister of Great Britain ; an omission as dishonorable as it must
be dangerous to the government, implying either a want of abil-

444 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

it j, or a want of consistency and good faith. And as it will in-
dubitably furnish a just cause of complaint against the United
States, so it is natural to expect that it may involve them in war.
It becomes the more serious in consequence of the non-surrender
of the prizes which were brought into our ports by the privateers
Sans Culottes and Citizen Genet, fitted out at Charleston.

IY. Because the fitting out of this privateer is a transaction
involving on the part of the agents of France a gross outrage upon,
and undisguised contempt of the government of the United States.
It is aggravated by the circumstances of having been done under
the immediate eye of the government, after an explicit and serious
communication of its disapprobation — and after an expectation
given that no similar attempt would be repeated. The Sec-
retary of State reported to the President as the result of a conver-
sation with the French Minister, on the subject of the two priva-
teers before mentioned, what was equivalent to an apology for
having done it, and to at least a tacit promise to forbear a repe-
tition. Yet it is still done, and is even attempted to be justified.

Y. Because it is impossible to interpret such conduct into any
thing else than a regular plan to force the United States into the
war. Its tendency to produce that effect cannot be misunder-
stood by the agents of France. The direct advantage of the mea-
sure to her is obviously too inconsiderable to induce the persist-
ing in it contrary to the remonstrances of the government if it
were not with a view to the more important end just mentioned ;
a conduct the more exceptionable, because it is accompanied
with the fallacious disavowal of an intention to engage us in the
war.

YI. Because there is satisfactory evidence of a regular system
in the pursuit of that object, to endeavor to control the govern-
ment itself by creating, if possible, a schism between it and the
people, and enlisting them on the side of France in opposition to
their own constitutional authorities. This is deducible not only
from a great variety of collateral incidents, but from direct writ-
ten and verbal declarations of the French Minister.

The memorial lately presented by him to the Secretary of
State, the most offensive paper perhaps that was ever offered by

iET.36.] CABINET PAPERS. 445

a foreign minister to a friendly power with which he resided, an-
nounces unequivocally the system which is alleged to exist.

Besides the exorbitant pretensions which that paper advances,
of a right in defiance of the declared sense of the government to
fit out armed vessels from the ports of the United States, and even
to enlist our citizens in their own territories in the service of
France — to hold courts within their jurisdiction for the condem-
nation of prizes unsanctioned by compact, contrary to the rights of
neutrality, contrary even to the spirit of the regulations of France
for her own consulate establishment, besides the loose and
unfounded charges of breach of treaty rudely urged— that paper
more than insinuates the imputation on the President of ill will
to France under the instigation of foreign influence, of having
gone beyond his duty and his authority by the decision of mat-
ters not within his province — and sufficiently implies an appeal
from him to Congress, if not to the people, whose disposition is
at least indelicately put in contrast with his. Language of this
sort, if even better founded than it is in the present instance, can
never be used by a diplomatic character without a culpable vio-
lation of decorum. He has nothing to do but with the constitu-
tional organ of the government. In his official communication
he ought never to look beyond him — nor can he do it without
disrespect to the government and to the nation.

The declaration of the Minister of France to Mr. Dallas,
Secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, as related by
him to the Governor of that Commonwealth and to the Secretary
of State, is a further confirmation of the same system. That
declaration among other exceptionable things expressed, u That
he, the French minister, would appeal from the President to the
people."

It would be a fatal blindness not to perceive the spirit which
inspires such language, and ill-omened jDassiveness not to resolve
to withstand it with energy.

VI. Because to refuse an assurance that the privateer should
remain in port, till the President could arrive to decide upon her
situation, was an additional high-handed contempt of the govern-
ment; which was in no shape palliated by the ambiguous

446 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

intimations of a ^probability that she would not be ready to depart
before his return, intimations which, from experience in other
cases, can in no degree be relied upon.

VII. Because not to act with decision under such circum-
stances, will be to prostrate the government, to sacrifice the
dignity and essential interests of the nation. Indecision in such
a case must necessarily tend to destroy at home and abroad a
due respect for the government, to weaken its arm, to embolden
the enterprises of an intriguing and daring foreign agent, to
encourage and multiply those who are disposed to adhere fac-
tiously to him, and alternately to put the country in the condition
of being dictated to by that foreign agent, and at war with all
the enemies of the nation he represents. It is a truth the best
founded and of the last importance, that nothing is so dangerous
to a government as to be wanting either in self-confidence or
self-respect.

YIII. Because decision may even tend to preserve peace
with France herself. If the enterprises of her minister are not
checked in their present stage, it may clearly be inferred from
his character, that they are likely to be carried to a length which
will render a rupture between the two countries inevitable,
should they not previously produce one with the powers who
are opposed to France.

IX. Because the measure which is recommended is but a
consequence of the instruction given to the different Governors
on the 24th of May last, addressed to them in their military
capacity, expressly to be executed by the agency of the militia,
and it included necessarily the use of military coercion when that
should be found requisite to the end to be accomplished. It is
therefore not to adopt a new principle, but to second the execu-
tion of an order already given by the President, founded upon
mature deliberation and the unanimous opinion of the heads of
departments, with the Attorney-General. It is therefore due to
the known and declared pleasure of the President. A Governor
who could not have recourse to the advice now asked, would
fail in his duty not to employ in a similar case the means recom-
mended, ivithout further sanction.

^t. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 447

The Governor of Pennsylvania might justifiably do so in the
existing instance ; but the case having been previously drawn
into consultation between him and the heads of departments, he
has thought fit to ask their ad Wee, and in giving it, conformably
with the true spirit of the President's Instruction, they would
only faithfully execute the trust reposed in them by him.

X. Marked in original XL Because the measure proposed is
only provisional, and can have no other effect than to evince the
determination of the government, unless the vessel attempts to
depart contrary to the intimation of the minister, as understood
by the Secretary of State. In such an event, the necessity will
be attested by the occasion.

XI. In original XIII. If there be delicacy on one side, there
is still greater delicacy on the other. France would have justly
nothing to complain of in reference to an act which was merely
a vindication of our own sovereignty in our own territory against
a manifest, deliberate, and outrageous violation of it by her
agent.

If she be at all reasonable or equitable, she will disavow the
proceedings and the agent, and take no offence. An appeal to
her justice and friendship ought for this purpose to follow a re-
sistance to the encroachment. But if actual measures be not
taken, the other powers will have just cause of complaint, not
only upon principle, but upon the strength of positive assurance.
If war is to be hazarded, 'tis certainly our duty to hazard it with
that power which by injury and insult forces us to choose be-
tween opposite hazards, rather than with those powers who do
not place us in so disagreeable a dilemma.

A proceeding like that proposed cannot colorably be consi-
dered by any nation as an act of hostility. If attempts are made
in neutral ports to equip armed vessels without permission of the
neutral sovereign, they are clandestine : if they are detected and
suppressed, it is regarded, as a matter of course, a penalty of
which the adventurers are to take the chance. It would be a
disgrace to the sovereign to whom they belong, and an offence
to the neutral nation, even to make it a subject of complaint.

To adopt as a rule of conduct that if we are to be involved

448 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

in the war, it must be at any rate against the powers who are op-
posed to France — and that we ought rather to give them cause
for attacking us, by suffering ourselves to be made an instrument
of the hostilities of France, than to risk a quarrel with her by a
vigorous opposition to her encroachments, would be a policy as
unjust and profligate as it would be likely to prove pernicious
and disgraceful.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

July 19th, 1793.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President of the United States, and has the honor to send him
for his information a letter which he has just received from our
Commissioners at Amsterdam.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 22d July, 1793.

Sir:

A variety of matters which have called for immediate atten-
tion, have prevented my taking up your letter of the inst., in-
closing one from our Commissioners at Amsterdam, dated the
1st of May last. It appears from that letter that the reimburse-
ment of one million of florins due on the 1st of June, 1793, has
been prolonged for ten years ; and that you have made consider-
able remittances to them.

I wish therefore to know, whether this prolongation of reim-
bursement may not lessen the necessity of borrowing to so great
an amount as might otherwise be expedient, for the purpose of
our foreign debts, and whether those remittances do not operate a
similar effect ?

^t. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 449

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, July 24th, 1793.

Sib:

In answer to your inquiry of the 22d instant, I have the honor
to observe, that in the communications heretofore made it is stat-
ed that an additional two millions of guilders had been already
directed to be borrowed, and a proposition is submitted to the
consideration of the President for authorizing a further loan of
three millions of florins.

One of the objects of the two million loan was the reim-
bursement of the one million which became due in Holland on
the first of June last.

The arrangement announced by our bankers in their letter of
the 1st of May last, fulfils that object, and consequently dimin-
ishes by one million the aggregate sum deemed advisable to be
borrowed, in the late reports of the Secretary to the President,
so as to leave four millions, instead of five, to be still borrowed
upon the plan contemplated.

The remittances from hence make no difference in the result,
because they only remain to their original funds, the purpose for
which they were intended having been answered by the arrange-
ment above mentioned.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, &c.

WASHINGTON TO JOHN JAY, CHIEF-JUSTICE, AND JAMES WILSON,
JAMES IREDELL, AND WILLIAM PATTERSON, ASSOCIATE-JUS-
TICES OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.

Philadelphia, July 23, 1793.

Gentlemen :

The circumstances, which had induced me to ask your coun-
sel on certain legal questions interesting to the public, exist now
d 29

450 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

as they did then ; but I by no means press a decision whereon
you wish the advice and participation of your absent brethren.
Whenever, therefore, their presence shall enable you to give it
with more satisfaction to yourselves, I shall accept it with pleasure.
With sentiments of high respect, I am, &c.

QUESTIONS PROPOSED TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE JUDGES OF THE
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.

Draft by Hamilton.

July, 1793.

I. Do the treaties between the United States and France give
to France or her citizens a right, when at war with a power with
whom the United States are at peace, to fit out originally in and
from the ports of the United States, vessels armed for war with
or without commissions? ^

II. If they give such a right, does it extend to all manner of
armed vessels, or to particular kinds only? If the latter, to
what kinds does it extend ?

III. Do they give to France or her citizens, in the case sup-
posed, a right to refit or arm anew vessels, which before their
coming within any port of the United States were armed for war,
with or without commission ?

IY. If they give such a right, does it extend to all manner
of armed vessels, or to particular kinds only ? If the latter, to what
kinds does it extend ? Does it include an augmentation of force,
or does it only extend to replacing the vessel in statu quo f

V. Does the 22d Article of the Treaty of Commerce, in the
case supposed, extend to vessels armed for war, on account of
the government of a power at war with France, or to merchant
armed vessels belonging to the subjects or citizens of that power
(viz.) of the description of those which by the English are called
letter of marque ships — by the French, " batiments armes en mar-
chandise et en guerre ?"

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 451

VI. Do the treaties aforesaid prohibit the United States from
permitting, in the case aforesaid, the armed vessels belonging to
a power at war with France, or to the citizens or subjects of such
power, to come within the ports of the United States, there to
remain as long as they may think fit, except in the case of their
coming in with prizes made of the subjects or property of France ?

VII. Do they prohibit the United States from permitting, in
the case supposed, vessels armed, on account of the government
of a power at war with France, or vessels armed for merchan-
dise and war, with or without commission, on account of the
subjects or citizens of such power, or any vessels other than
those commonly called privateers, to sell freely whatsoever they
may bring into the ports of the United States, and freely to pur-
chase in and carry from the ports of the United States, goods, mer-
chandise, and commodities, except as excepted in the last question.

VIII. Do they oblige the United States to permit France, in
the case supposed, to sell in their ports the prizes which she or her
citizens may have made of any power at war with her, the citi-
zens or subjects of such power ; or exempt from the payment of the
usual duties on ships and merchandise, the prizes so made, in the
case of their being to be sold within the ports of the United States ?

IX. Do those treaties, particularly the Consular Convention,
authorize France, as of right, to erect courts within the jurisdic-
tion of the United States for the trial and condemnation of prizes
made by armed vessels in her service ?

X. Do the laws and usages of nations authorize her, as of
right, to erect such courts for such purposes ?

XL Do the laws of neutrality, considered relatively to the
treaties of the United States with foreign powers, or independently
of those treaties, permit the United States in the case supposed,
to allow to France or her citizens the privilege of fitting out
originally in and from the ports of the United States, vessels
armed and commissioned for war, either on account of the gov-
ernment or of private persons, or both ?

XII. Do those laws permit the United States to extend the
like privilege to a power at war with France ?

XII. Do the laws of neutrality, considered as aforesaid, per-

452 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

mit the United States, in the case supposed, to allow to France
or her citizens the privilege of refitting or arming anew vessels
which, before their coming within the United States, were
armed and commissioned for war ? May such privilege include
an augmentation of the force of such vessels ?

XIII. Do those laws permit the United States to extend the
like privilege to a power at war with France ?

XIY. Do those laws, in the case supposed, permit merchant
vessels of either of the powers at war, to arm in the ports of the
United States, without being commissioned? May this privi-
lege be rightfully refused ?

XV. Does it make any difference, in point of principle,
whether a vessel be armed for war, or the force of an armed ves-
sel be augmented in the ports of the United States, with means
procured in the United States, or with means brought into them,
by the party who shall so arm or augment the force of such
vessel ? If the first be unlawful, is the first lawful ?

XYI. Do the laws of neutrality, considered as aforesaid, au-
thorize the United States to permit to France, her subjects or
citizens, the sale within her ports of prizes made of the subjects
or property of a power at war with France, before they have
been carried into some port of France and there condemned, re-
fusing the like privilege to her enemy ?

XVII. Do those laws authorize the United States to permit
to France the erection of courts within their territory and juris-
diction, for the trial and condemnation of prizes — refusing that
privilege to a power at war with France ?

XVIII. If any armed vessel of a power at war with another,
with whom the United States are at peace, shall make prize of
the subjects or property of its enemy within the territory or
jurisdiction of the United States, have not the United States a
right to cause restitution of such prize ? Are they bound or not
by the principles of neutrality so to do, if such prize shall be
within their power ?

XIX. To what distance, by the laws and usages of nations,
may the United States exercise the right of prohibiting the hos-
tilities of foreign powers at war with each other, within rivers,

jEt.36.] cabinet papers. 453

bays, and arms of the sea, and upon the sea along the coasts of
the United States?

XX. Have vessels armed for war, under commission from
a foreign power, a right, without the consent of the United
States, to engage within their jurisdiction seamen and soldiers,
for the service of such vessels, being citizens of that power, or
of another foreign power, or citizens of the United States ?

XXI. Is it lawful for the citizens of such power, or citizens
of the United States, so to engage, being within the jurisdiction
of the United States ?

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 27th, 1793.

Dear Sir:

After giving the subject of loans the most attentive consider-
ation I am able, under the several explanations which have
been required and received from you, my mind has resolved
itself into the form of the inclosed paper. But if there is any
material objection to the measure there directed, unad verted to
by me, I am ready and willing to hear it ; otherwise it may be
carried into effect without delay. There is a blank to fill up — ■
to do which I pray you to furnish me with the sum.

I am, &c

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 27th, 1793.

Sir:

I have considered your application for liberty to borrow
three millions of florins, in addition to the one million now in
train of being borrowed.

It appears from the documents which you have laid before

454 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

me, that 284,901 dollars and 89 cents have been applied to the
purchase of the general debt ; and that by the act of 2d March,

1793, 200,000 dollars of the money for that use have been em-
ployed in discharging the instalment due to the Bank of the
United States. The sum, then, which may still be borrowed,
under the act of the 12th August, 1790, being 1,515,098 dollars
and 11 cents, and it being very desirable to embrace the present
season for purchasing, I am of opinion that a loan should be
opened to that amount.

In like manner, as the balance of foreign loans now in
the Treasury, which appears from the same documents to be
565,484 dollars and 28 cents, may be absorbed by the instal-
ments of the French debt due in September and November next,
and another instalment of the Dutch loan will fall due in June,,

1794, and will require the sum of 1,000,000 florins, I am also of
opinion that a loan ought to be effected to that amount.

Geo. Washington.

WASHINGTON TO THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS AND THE ATTOR-
NEY GENERAL.

Draft by Hamilton.

Philadelphia, 29 July, 1793.

Gentlemen :

It will not be amiss, I conceive, at the meeting you are a^out
to have to-day, to consider the expediency of directing the cus-
tom-house officers to be attentive to the arming or equipping ves-
sels, either for offensive or defensive war, in the several ports to
which they belong, and make report thereof to the governor or
some other proper officer.

Unless this, or some other effectual mode is adopted to check
this evil in the first stage of its growth, the Executive of the United
States will be incessantly harassed with complaints on this head;,
and probably when it may be difficult to afford a remedy.
I am, &c.

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 455

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, August 3. 1793.

Dear Sir :

Motives of justice, friendship and candor, induce me to send
the inclosed for jour perusal. Let me know the truth of this
matter, what answer is proper to be given to it, and by whom.

The writer is urgent to receive one, having called once or
twice since the delivery of it for this purpose.

I am, &c,

Geo. Washington.

The inclosed alluded to above, was a complaint from A. Gr.
Erauncis, respecting the withholding payment of certificates
which he conceived he was entitled to, and which his statement
explains.

CABINET OPINION — RANDOLPH TO WASHINGTON.
On the question, whether Congress be now called, August 3, 1793.

At a past day this question was agitated; and it was the
unanimous opinion, that Congress should not be then called. A
revision of that opinion confirms me in its propriety. Some fur-
ther reasons, therefore, amounting to what the Constitution calls
an u extraordinary occasion" must have occurred since, if that
opinion is to be relinquished.

If those reasons be not well founded, to what extent may not
the alarm be carried both here and in Europe ? Every imagina-
tion will be racked to discover the extraordinary occasion ; and
there can be no doubt that dangers of every possible kind will
be supposed to surround this country. Public credit will be
shaken by new suspicions ; and the belligerent powers will enter-
tain one most hazardous to us, that the Executive foresee that

456 HAMILTON'S WORKS. gJB*. 36.

we cannot escape the war. In the latter case, the nations who
least expect our favor may possibly hasten to anticipate our
power of hostility.

Still, however, if the extraordinary occasion exists, it must
be obeyed. But does it exist?

1. The war with the western Indians has a chance of being
ended, or at least has not assumed any terrors, against which
we are not prepared. It may indeed become more formidable,
by embracing greater bodies of Indians ; but no ground yet ap-
pears for such a calculation.

2. The southern Indians are to be apprehended. But a peace
with the western Indians would leave the army free to act
against the southern ; an enterprise cannot be set on foot by
Congress, if now called, early enough to seize any part of this
year, and April is supposed to be the best season for operations.

3. The determination to procure Mr. Gr.'s recall, is an affair
for which the President is not accountable to any other order of
the government. It is not feared, that such a measure will pro-
duce any convulsions ; but on the contrary, ought to conciliate
the public affection, and particularly the affection of those who
wish to see the dignity of government or its peace maintained.

4. Although the acquittal of G. Henfield is a proof, that the
jury, under all the circumstances of his case, thought him inno-
cent ; the law was announced with firmness and decision by the
judges. Another trial may be expected to have a different
result ; and to call Congress, because he was acquitted, would
argue, that the Executive had lost confidence in its own judg-
ment, which originally dictated the prosecution, although it has
been corroborated by that of the Court.

5. At the same time, it must be acknowledged, that it would
be a great relief to the President, and Congress would be ready
for all events, if they were earlier assembled. But what advan-
tage can be obtained in point of time ? Not more than a month.
And is it worth the risk of spreading a general alarm for such
an acquisition of time ? Will it not be said, that the President
has gone as far and as long as he could without Congress ; and
finding his career by himself closed or anxious to save appear-

At. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 457

ances, lie is now at length desirous of sharing the burthen with
them?

Being unable therefore to discover any special reasons for
calling Congress, equal in weight to those against it, or any ade-
quate motives in the general complexion of affairs, I am of opin-
ion that Congress ought not now to be summoned.

Em. Kandolph.

CABINET OPINION.

August 3, 1793.

I. The original arming and equipping of vessels in the ports
of the United States by any of the belligerent parties, for military
service, offensive or defensive, is deemed unlawful.

II. Equipments of merchant vessels by either of the bellige-
rent parties in the ports of the United States, purely for the
accommodation of them as such, is deemed lawful.

III. Equipments in the ports of the United States of vessels
of war in the immediate service of the government of any of the
belligerent parties, which, if done to other vessels, would be of
a doubtful nature, as being applicable either to commerce or
war, are deemed lawful, except those which shall have made
prize of the subjects, people or property of France coming with
their prizes into the ports of the United States, pursuant to the
seventeenth article of our Treaty of Amity and Commerce with
France.

IV. Equipments in the ports of the United States by any of
the parties at war with France, of vessels fitted for merchandise
and war, whether with or without commissions, which are doubt-
ful in their nature as being applicable either to commerce or
war, are deemed lawful, except those which shall have made
prize, &c.

V. Equipments of any of the vessels of France in the ports
of the United States, which are doubtful in their nature, as being
applicable to commerce or war, are deemed lawful.

458 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

VI. Equipments of every kind in the ports of the United
States, of privateers of the powers at war with France, are
deemed unlawful.

VII. Equipments of vessels in the ports of the United States,
which are of a nature solely adapted to war, are deemed unlaw-
ful ; except those stranded or wrecked, as mentioned in the
eighteenth article of our treaty with France, the sixteenth of our
treaty with the United Netherlands, the ninth of our treaty with
Prussia, and except those mentioned in the nineteenth article of
our treaty with France, the seventeenth of our treaty with the
United Netherlands, the eighteenth of our treaty with Prussia.

VIII. Vessels of either of the parties not armed, or armed pre-
vious to their coming into the ports of the United States, which shall
not have infringed any of the foregoing rules, may lawfully engage
or enlist therein their own subjects or citizens, not being inhabit-
ants of the United States, except privateers of the power at
war with France, and except those vessels which have made
prize, &c.

Aug. 3, 1793.
The foregoing rules, having been considered by us at several
meetings, and being now unanimously approved, they are sub-
mitted to the President of the United States.

Thomas Jefferson,
Alexander Hamilton,
H. Knox,
Edm. Kandolph.

JEFFERSON TO WASHINGTON.

Aug. 4: 1793.

The President having been pleased to propose, for considera-
tion, the question, Whether it be proper or not to convene the
legislature at an earlier period than that at which it is to meet
by law ? and at what time ? I am of opinion it will be proper.

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 459

I. Because the protection of our southern frontier seems to
render indispensable a war with the Creeks, which cannot be
declared, nor provided for but by the legislature, nor prudently
undertaken by the Executive, on account of the consequences it
may involve with respect to Spain.

II. Because several legislative provisions are wanting to
enable the government to steer steadily through the difficulties
daily produced by the war of Europe, and to prevent our being
involved in it by the incidents and perplexities to which it is
constantly giving birth.

III. Because should we be involved in it, which is every day
possible, however anxiously we endeavor to avoid it, the legisla-
ture meeting a month earlier will place them a month forwarder
in their provisions for that state of things.

I think the first Monday in November would be a proper
time for convening them, because while it would gain a month
in making provisions to prevent or prepare for war, it leaves
such a space of time for their assembling, as will avoid exciting
alarm either at home or abroad.

KNOX TO WASHINGTON.

War Department, August 5, 1793.

Sir:

It was on the 3d instant agreed between the heads of the de-
partments and the Attorney-General, that each individual should
submit his opinion to you in writing, upon the propriety of call-
ing Congress together before the period at which they are to be
assembled.

In the present state of things in this country, as well as in
Europe, an expectation of uncommon events has been generally
excited. The prudent and sober part of the community regard,
as in the case of a storm, the mind and countenance of the chief
pilot. While he remains confident and composed, happiness is

460 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

diffused around ; but when he doubts, then anxiety and fear has
its full effect.

Most of the cases which have yet occurred as relative to
foreign powers, have been the proper business of the Executive,
and the opinions of the Judiciary seem to indicate that all the
measures hitherto adopted for the preservation of the peace, have
been proper and wise. For any case of a similar nature which
may probably arise prior to the session of Congress, it is proba-
ble the powers of the President may be adequate.

The Southern Indian business may indeed require the early
attention of Congress^ But when it shall be considered that this
attention could be anticipated but a little, and that a winter's
campaign, according to General Pickens' opinion, would be an
hazardous operation, much would not be gained by calling Con-
gress together one month sooner than they would otherwise
assemble ; for it may be doubted, whether if a proclamation
should be issued immediately, that a full Congress would be as-
sembled much before the first day of November.

If then to gain one month only Congress should be called, it
is probable the public mind, both at home and abroad, would be
filled with doubts and perplexities, public credit might be
affected, and great domestic distress ensue.

After placing this question in several attitudes, the balance
of my mind is, that it is probable the measure of calling Congress
together at this time, would produce greater evil than good.

CABINET OPINION. — HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia. Aug. 5th. 1793.

I doubt the expediency of specially convening the Congress
at this time, for the following reasons :

The Constitution requires that an extraordinary occasion
should exist as the basis of the exercise of the power of the
President to convene the legislature.

Mr. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 461

It is not perceived that any circumstance now exists which
did not exist months ago, of sufficient force to constitute an ex-
traordinary occasion.

The war in Europe existed then, as it does now. Indian
affairs are not understood to be at this time in a worse, if in so
bad a posture as they have been for a considerable time past.

Some additional incidents have indeed fallen out — the de-
cision with regard to Mr. Genet's recall, the verdict of the jury
in the case of Henfield, the supposed decree of the National Con-
vention affecting our treaty of commerce with France.

But, with regard to the first, it would be only a reason for
the measure as far as the circumstance may be supposed likely to
produce a war with France. According to ordinary calculations,
such a consequence ought not to be looked for ; and the prudence
is very questionable of manifesting by any public act that the
Executive did look for it.

The second is a matter which, under the circumstances,
seems not of sufficient weight. The judges who tried the cause
were united in their opinion of the law. The jury are uni-
versally believed in this city to have been selected for the pur-
pose of acquittal, so as to take off much the force of the example,
and to afford no evidence that other juries would pursue the
same course.

The supposed decree of the National Convention is an im-
portant consideration ; but its authenticity is not yet out of ques-
tion, and it could hardly be acted upon till that was ascertained.
And, indeed, it will deserve examination, whether the Executive
would not itself be competent to whatever it would be prudent
to do in the case.

The objections to the measure at this time are, that unless
there are reasons of sufficient force now for adopting it, which
did not exist before, the taking the step now would impeach the
omitting of it hitherto, and would expose the Executive to
much criticism and animadversion ; that the meeting of Congress
could scarcely be accelerated for more than a month, allowing, as
ought to be done, due time for the knowledge of the call to
diffuse itself throughout the United States, for the members to pre-

462 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

pare for coming, and for the distant ones to perform the jonrney.
Sufficient time ought to be given for a full house. A month is
so short a period as not to form a material object, and as conse-
quently to bring into greater question the propriety of acting
upon grounds not much if any thing stronger than existed when
a call would have produced a considerable acceleration. In pro-
portion to the shortness of the period gained would be the public
anxiety and alarm at the measure. It would be construed into
an indication that something very extraordinary and urgent had
occurred, and abroad as well as at home much speculation would
be excited. This consideration, which was always a weighty ob-
jection to anticipating the meeting of Congress by a special call,
has now great additional force for the reason just assigned.

CABINET OPINION".

August 5th, 1793.

At a meeting of the Heads of Departments and the Attorney-
General at the Secretary of State:s office, August 5th, 1793.

The case of the Swallow, letter of marque at New- York,
desired to be sent out of our ports, as being a privateer, it is the
opinion that there is no ground to make any order on the sub-
ject.

The Polly or Eepublican, in the hands of the marshal at
New- York, on a charge of having been armed in our ports to
cruise against nations at peace with the United States, it is the
opinion that there is no ground to make any new order in this
case.

The Little Democrat, the Vainqueur de la Bastille, the
Citoyen Genet, and the Sans Culottes, a letter to be written to
Mr. Genet as was determined on the 3d instant, and an in-
struction in conformity therewith be given to the governors.
Mr. Hammond to be informed thereof, and to be assured the gov-
ernment will effectuate their former resolution on this subject.

JEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 463

The Lovely Lass, the Prince William Henry, and the Jane
of Dublin, prizes to the Citoyen Genet, Mr. Genet to be written
to as was agreed on the 3d instant.

The brig Fanny and ship William, reclaimed as taken within
the limits of our protection, as it is expected that the Court of
Admiralty may very shortly reconsider whether it will take
cognizance of these cases, it is thought better to take no new
measure therein for the present.

The schooner fitting out at Boston, as mentioned in a letter of
Mr. Gore to Mr. Lear. The Governor of Massachusetts to be
written to to suppress her.

Mr. Delaney's letter of the 24th of July, on the question
whether duties are to be paid on prize goods landed for sale, it
is the opinion that they are to be paid.

A letter from Mr. Genet of the 4th of August, informing the
Secretary of State that certain inhabitants lately arrived from
St. Domingo, are combining to form a military expedition from
the territory of the United States against the constituted authori-
ties of the said Island. It is the opinion that the Governor
of Maryland be informed thereof, (because in a verbal commu-
nication to the Secretary of State, Mr. Genet had named Balti-
more as the place where the combination was forming,) and that
he be desired to take measures to prevent the same.

Th. Jeferson,
Alexander Hamilton,
H. Knox.

The Secretary of State and Attorney-General are of opinion
that Mr. Hammond be informed that measures are taking to pro-
cure restoration of the prizes the Lovely Lass, The Prince William
Henry, and the Jane of Dublin, and in case that cannot be effect-
ed, that government will take the subject into further consider-
ation.

The Secretaries of the Treasury and of War, are of opinion
that Mr. Hammond be informed that measures are taking to
effect the restoration of the prizes the Lovely Lass, The Prince
William Henry, and the Jane of Dull in ; that in case this shall not

464 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

be effected, the President considers it as incumbent upon the
United States to make compensation for those prizes ; and that
prizes in similar circumstances which shall be hereafter brought
into the ports of the United States will be restored.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

8th August, 1793.

The present being, and being likely to continue for some
time a favorable season for purchases of the public debt, and as
it appears that the whole or the greatest part of the unexpended
moneys of the foreign loans heretofore made, will be requisite
for satisfying the approaching instalments of our debt to France,
and which it has been judged expedient to pay, without deduction
for any prior advance. It appearing, moreover, from the state-
ments submitted by you to my consideration, that of the sum
authorized to be borrowed by the act entitled, " An act making
provision for the reduction of the public debt," there may still
be procured for the purpose of that act, the sum of 1,515,98 dol-
lars and 11 cents. I do therefore direct and require that you
take immediate measures for obtaining a loan or loans to the ex-
tent of the sum aforesaid, to be applied to purchases of the public
debt, pursuant to the provisions of the act above mentioned.

Provided always, that the terms and conditions of the said
loan or loans shall be according to law. Given under my hand
at Philadelphia, the eighth day of August, 1793.

G. W.

To the Secretary of the Treasury.

You having stated to me that there will be due and payable
on the first of June next, on account of the loans heretofore made
by the United States in Holland, the sum of one million of
florins, I do therefore hereby direct, that you will take mea-
sures for procuring in due time, by way of loan, the said sum of

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 465

one million of florins, to be applied to the payment of the afore-
said instalments. Provided always, that the terms and condi-
tions of the said loan or loans be according to law. Given under
my hand at Philadelphia, the 8th day of August, 1793.

g. w.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Aug. 10, 1793*..

Dear Sir:

I thank you for giving me the perusal of the letters to- you,,
which are herewith returned ; and I pray you to draft,, on my
behalf, what you may conceive to be a short, but proper and re-
spectful response to the letter of the Chairman, or to the resolves,
or to both, as you shall judge best, (for they come in a form so un-
usual that I scarcely know the mode that will be most eligible,)
and let me be furnished therewith to-morrow evening, or early
on Monday morning.

Quere. If the introduction of G. C. in the resolutions affords
a good occasion to notice the promptness and efficacy of his aid,
and that of all the Governors, (as far as facts are known to me,)
where there has been occasion for their exertion — would it not
be good policy to make proper mention thereof?

Yours, always, Geo. Washington..

HAMILTON TO SHORT.

Treasury Department, August 12th, 1793;

Sir:

It is thought expedient to take measures for obtaining a loan
in Holland, of three millions of florins ; though it should not be
obtainable on lower terms than five per cent., interest, and. four
per cent, charges.
D 30

466 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

With a view to this, and not expecting jour presence at the
Hague at the time this letter shall reach Holland, I have ad-
dressed the requisite instructions for the purpose immediately to
our Commissioners at Amsterdam, a copy of which is here in-
closed for your information. This will explain to you the par-
ticular motive which suggested the expediency of the loan in
question.

I request a co-operation on your part in whatever may be
necessary to give the business its proper form.

HAMILTON TO W. & J. WILLINK, N. & J. VAN STAPHOEST AND

HUBBARD, BANKERS, AMSTERDAM.

Treasury Department, August 12, 1793.

Gentlemen :

I have lately the pleasure of your letters of the 22d of April
and 1st of May.

The last was particularly acceptable, as it removed all anxiety
about the June payment in a mode quite satisfactory to me.

The low prices at which our stocks have been for some time
past, owing to the state of affairs in Europe (which has tended
to lower them in two ways — by lessening the foreign demand,
and by opening new channels for the more beneficial employ-
ment of our domestic capital), indicate the expediency of extend-
ing the purchases of stock on account of the government, which
at present yields a very decided advantage.

Upon this ground it is judged advisable to endeavor to ob-
tain a loan in Holland for three millions of florins ; though bet-
ter terms should not be obtainable than five per cent, interest and
four per cent, charges.

Not expecting that Mr. Short will be in Holland when this
letter reaches you, and having full confidence in your pure zeal
for the interests of the United States, I have concluded to ad-
dress an instruction for the above purpose immediately to you.

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 467

In the event, therefore, of Mr. Short's not being in Holland
when this letter is received, you will take measures of yourselves
to obtain a loan for the above sum, within the limit above speci-
fied.

I count, nevertheless, upon your zealous exertions, if the
state of the market should possibly admit of it, to obtain the
loan at a lower rate of interest. The success of your endeavors
for that purpose will be particularly gratifying to me, and will
be, in more than one way, useful to our affairs.

It is important, too, that I should receive the earliest advice
of what you shall do.

The inclosed letter for Mr. Short advises him of the present
arrangement, and desires him to co-operate in whatever may be
necessary to give the business due form.

With great and real consideration and esteem, I am, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Aug. 14. 1793.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor respectfully to
communicate to the President of the United States the copy of a
letter which has this moment been received from the Collector
of this port, informing of the arrival of two prizes sent in by
the privateers Citizen Genet and Carmagnole.

CABINET OPINION.

August 15, 1793.
That the Minister of the French republic be informed that
the President considers the United States as bound by positive
assurances, given in conformity to the laws of neutrality, to ef-

468 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 36.

fectuate the restoration of, or to make compensation for, prizes
which shall have been made of any of the parties at war with
France, subsequent to the 5th day of June last, by privateers
fitted out of their ports.

That it is consequently expected that he will cause restitution
to be made of all prizes taken and brought into our ports subse-
quent to the above-mentioned day by such privateers ; in defect
of which the President considers it as incumbent upon the United
States to indemnify the owners of those prizes ; the indemnifica-
tion to be reimbursed by the French nation.

That besides taking efficacious measures to prevent the future
fitting out of privateers in the ports of the United States, they
will not give asylum therein to any which shall have been at any
time so fitted out, and will cause restitution of all such prizes as
shall be hereafter brought within their ports by any of the said
privateers.

That instructions be sent to the respective Governors in con-
formity to the above communication.

The foregoing having been duly considered, and being now
unanimously approved, they are submitted to the President of
the United States.

Thomas Jefferson,
Alexander Hamilton,
Henry Knox,
Edmund Kandolph.

CABINET OPINION.

Aug. 23d, 1793.
At a meeting of the Heads of Departments and the Attorney-
General at the President's, on the 1st and 2d of August, 1793,
on a review of the whole of Mr. Genet's correspondence and con-
duct, it was unanimously agreed, that a letter should be written
to the Minister of the United States at Paris, stating the same to

JEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 469

him, resuming the points of difference which had arisen between
the government of the United States and Mr. Genet, assigning
the reasons for the opinions of the former, and desiring the recall
of the latter ; and that this letter, with those which have passed
between Mr. Genet and the Secretary of State, and other neces-
sary documents, shall be laid by Mr. Morris before the Executive
of the French government.

At a meeting of the same at the President's, August 15th, the
rough draft of the said letter, having been prepared by the Sec-
retary of State, was read for consideration, and it was agreed that
the Secretary of the Treasury should take measures for obtaining
a vessel, either by hire or purchase, to be sent to France express
with the dispatches when ready.

At a meeting of the same at the President's, August 20th,
said letter was read and corrected by paragraphs, and finally
agreed to.

At a meeting of the same at the President's, August 23d, it
was agreed that the preceding letter should bear the date of the
last document which is to accompany it, to wit, August 16th ;
and the draft of a second letter to our Minister at Paris was read
and unanimously approved, and to bear date this day.

Sealed and signed this 23d day of August, 1793.

Th. Jefferson,
Alexander Hamilton,
H. Knox,
Edm. Kandolph.

NOTES BY HAMILTON, TO FRAME LETTER OF SECRETARY OF
STATE TO GOU VERNE UR MORRIS, MINISTER AT PARIS.

1793.

I. Explanation of fitting out privateers in Charleston, put on
footing of there being no law.

II. Letter persisting in objection to it.

470 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

III. Eeclaims Gideon Henfield.

IV. Very moderate answer, that courts will do right.
Y. Concerning sloop Eepublican.

1. Issuing commissions a mere consular act.

2. Insists on right of arming for defence.

3. Speaks of treaty permitting to enter.

4. Armed — to equip themselves.

5. France always in practice of issuing commissions.

6. Will give orders to consuls to take precautions to re-

spect our territory — political opinions of President.

7. Insists on right of arming vessels — abandonment

unworthy its friends.
In waiting until representatives of sovereign had re-
solved to adopt or reject.

VII. Complaint of proceedings of District Court against the
William — persons labor secretly to have misunderstood.

VIII. Letter concerning debt — accomplish infernal system —
since the federal government without consulting Congress.

IX. Awkwardness — Governor avails himself of political opin-
ions.

X. Letter — opinions, private and public, of President — on
s'est empresse Je ne scais sous quelle influence impressions
etrangeres — complains of obstruction to consular jurisdiction.

XL Letter concerning sloop William requiring relinquish-
ment.

XII. Letter concerning another vessel in same situation.

XIII. Letter concerning Little Democrat — letter on account
of the state to augment the marine of France — commission, &c.

I. Blamed in a conversation the judicial proceedings of the
consul — ought only to have made a ministerial inquiry.
1. Case of the Swallow.

iEx.36.] CABINET PAPERS. 471

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Aug. 27th, 1793.

Dear Sir:

You would oblige me by drafting an answer to the inclosed
address from Kichmond, Virginia.

If you can conveniently do it to go by the post of to-morrow,
it would be wished ; if not, it will do very well against Friday's
post.

If you are not engaged, and will take dinner with me to-day, I
should be glad of your company. Governor Blount and General
Pickens will be here.

Yours always and sincerely,

Geo. Washington.

cabinet opinion.

Draft by Hamilton.

Aug. 31, 1793.
At a meeting of the Heads of Departments and Attorney-
General, at the President's, on the 31st day of Aug., 1793, a let-
ter from Mr. Gore to Mr. Lear, dated Boston, Aug. 24, was read,
stating that the Roland, a privateer fitted out at Boston, and fur-
nished with a commission under the government of France, had
sent a prize into that port, which, being arrested by the Marshal
of the District by process from a court of justice, was rescued
from his possession by Mr. Du Plaine, Consul of France, with an
armed force from one of the ships of his nation. It is the opinion,
that the Attorney of the District be instructed to institute such
prosecution as the laws will authorize against the said Du Plaine,
and to furnish to the government of the United States authentic
evidence of the facts before mentioned, thereon, if it shall ap-
pear that the rescue was made by the said Du Plaine, or his
order, it is the opinion that his Exequatur should be revoked ;

472 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

also, that the Attorney of the District be desired to furnish
copies of his applications or other correspondence with the Gov-
ernor of Massachusetts relative to the several privateers and
prizes which have been the subject of his letters to Mr. Lear.

A letter from Mr. Maury, Consul of the United States at
Liverpool, dated July 4, 1793, was read, covering an authen-
ticated copy of certain additional instructions from the Court of
St. James to the commanders of their ships of war, dated June
8, 1793, permitting them to stop the vessels of neutral nations
laden with corn, flour or meal, and bound to any port of France,
and to send them into British ports ; from thence they are not to
be permitted to proceed to the port of any country not in amity
with Great Britain. Thereupon, it is the opinion that Mr.
Pinckney be provisionally instructed to make representations to
the British Ministry on the said instruction as contrary to the
rights of neutral nations, and to urge a revocation of the same,
and full indemnification to any individuals, citizens of these
States, who may in the mean time suffer loss in consequence of
the said instruction. Also, that explanations be desired by Mr.
Pinckney of the reasons of the distinction made in the 2d article of
the said instructions between the vessels of Denmark and Sweden
and those of the United States attempting to enter blockaded ports.

Information having been also received through the public
papers of a decree, passed the National Assembly of France,
revoking the principle of free ships making free goods, and
enemy ships making enemy goods, and making it lawful to seize
neutral vessels bound with provisions to any other country, and
carry them into the ports of France, there to be landed and paid
for. And also of another decree excepting the vessels of the
United States, from the operation of the preceding decrees. It
is the opinion that Mr. Morris be provisionally instructed, in case
the first mentioned decrees have passed and not the exceptions,
to make representations thereon to the French government as
contrary to the treaty existing between the two countries, and
the decree relative to provisions, contrary also to the law of
nations ; and to require a revocation thereof and full indemnifica-
tion to any citizens of these States who may, in the mean time,

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 473

have suffered loss therefrom, and also in case the said decrees and
the exceptions were both passed, that then a like indemnification
be made for losses intervening between the dates of the said
decrees and exceptions.

A letter from the Governor of Georgia, of the 13th instant,
covering the proceedings of a Council of War, relatively to an
expedition against certain towns of the Creek Nation, was com-
municated for consideration.

It is the opinion that the Governor of Georgia be informed
that the President disapproves the measure as unauthorized by
law, as contrary to the present state of affairs and to the instruc-
tions heretofore given, and expects that it will not be proceeded
in ; that, requiring the previous consideration of Congress, it will
be submitted to them at their ensuing session, if circumstances
shall not then render it unnecessary or improper ; that the Gover-
nor of South Carolina be also informed that the co operation
desired of him by the Governor of Georgia is not to be afforded ;
and that the agent for procuring supplies of provisions for the
service of the United States in Georgia, be instructed that no
provisions are to be furnished on their account for the purpose

of the said expedition.

Thomas Jefferson,

Alexander Hamilton,

H. Knox,

Edm. Eandolph.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Sept. 6, 1793.

My Dear Sir :

With extreme concern I receive the expression of your
apprehensions, that you are in the first stages of the prevailing
fever. I hope they are groundless, notwithstanding the malig-
nancy of the disorder is so much abated, as with proper and
timely applications not much is to be dreaded.

474 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

The inclosed was written and sent to your office yesterday,
with direction if you were not there to be brought back. And
it would be a pleasing circumstance if a change so entirely
favorable as to justify it, would permit your attendance, and to
bring Mrs. Hamilton with you to dine with us at three o'clock.

I am always and affectionately yours,

George Washington.

JEFFERSON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia. Sept. 12, 1793.

Sir:

I have the honor to inclose you a paper delivered me by Mr.
Bournonville, on the part of the Minister of France, reclaiming
against the demand of tonnage on the vessels which came hither
from the West Indies in their late calamity. It is urged that
they were driven out of their harbors by superior force, and
obliged to put to sea without water or stores, and therefore to
make the first port where they could be relieved, which con-
stitute, in their opinion, those circumstances of distress and
necessity, which exempt vessels from the payment of tonnage.
This case belongs to your department ; I take the liberty in the
absence of the President, and to save time, to transmit it to you
directly for your consideration.

I have the honor to be, &c.

Thomas Jefferson.

WASHINGTON TO THE INHABITANTS OF RICHMOND AND ITS

VICINITY.

September 18th, 1793.

Fellow-Citizens :

Among the numerous expressions of the public sense in
favor of the measures which have been adopted for the observ-

Mt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 475

ance of neutrality in the present war of Europe, none is more
grateful to me than that of Eichmond and its vicinity.

The manner in which it is conveyed lays claim to my af-
fectionate acknowledgments.

In recollecting the anticipations which were entertained of a
pacific policy, as most consonant with the situation of the United
States and the genius of our government, it is a pleasing reflec-
tion, that when the occasion for exemplifying it occurs, senti-
ments corresponding with it appear to pervade every part of the
community. This steadiness of views highly honorable to the
national character, is well calculated to support, in the adminis-
tration of our affairs, a spirit constantly favorable to the great
object of peace.

And though the best and sincerest endeavors to this end
may sometimes prove ineffectual, yet it will always be a source
of consolation and encouragement, that the calamities of war, if
at any time they shall be experienced, have been unsought and
unprovoked. Every good citizen will, then, meet events with
that firmness and perseverance which naturally accompany the
consciousness of a good cause — the conviction that there is no
ground for self-reproach.

True to our duties and interests as Americans — firm to our
purpose as lovers of peace — let us unite our fervent prayers to
the Great Kuler of the universe, that the justice and moderation
of all concerned may permit us to continue in the uninterrupted
enjoyment of a blessing which we so greatly prize, and of which
we ardently wish them a speedy and permanent participation.

George Washington.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, September 25th, 1793.

My dear Sir:

I congratulate you and Mrs. Hamilton very sincerely on
your recoveries from the malignant fever which prevailed in

476 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

Philadelphia, and hope you are both restored to perfect health,
and that no other of the family has been seized with the dis-
order. In these sentiments, Mrs. Washington cordially unites
with me.

From Mr. Jefferson, who has just passed this; from General
Knox, who has set out for Boston; and from the accounts
published in the gazettes ; I conceive that, under the most favor-
able change that can reasonably be expected, the 1st of November
is as soon as business can, with safety, be transacted in the city
of Philadelphia, But it appears necessary, at all events, that
the Heads of Departments should assemble, if not at that place,
yet in the vicinity of it (say Germantown), at that time, where
I also shall be, if well. My compliments to Mrs. Hamilton,
and respects to General Schuyler and family, if you are with
them.

I am always, and with much truth,

Yours, affectionately,

George Washington.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, October 14th, 1793.

Dear Sir:

Inclosed is the duplicate of my last. The calamity which
has befallen Philadelphia, and seems in no wise to abate, renders it
more essential than ever for the Heads of Departments to assem-
ble, that proper measures with respect to the public offices and
papers may be adopted. It is time, also, if the President can
with propriety interpose, to decide something with respect to
the meeting of Congress ; but what, is difficult ; some being of
opinion that there is no power vested in the Executive, under
any circumstances, to change the place of meeting, although
there is power to call Congress together upon extraordinary oc-
casions ; others think, admitting this, the exigency of the case

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS, 477

would warrant the measure. It is a delicate situation for the
President to be placed in. What would you advise in this pre-
dicament ? If to call Congress together, where, for the ensuing
session ? The public offices and papers being difficult and ex-
pensive to remove to any distance, and the delicate situation it
would throw the Executive into, by naming a place far from the
present establishment, my wishes would be Germantown, if the
place is free from the fever, for the reasons I have mentioned ;
but, as none can take a more comprehensive view, and I flatter
myself, a less partial one, of the subject, than yourself, and as a
letter from you may reach me before we shall meet, I pray you
to dilate fully upon the several points here brought to your con-
sideration.

I shall be at, or somewhere about, Germantown, at the time
mentioned in the inclosed, and therefore shall only add what I
persuade myself you are already satisfied of, that I am, with
much truth and sincerity,

Dear Sir,

Your affectionate

Geokge Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

2£ Miles from Philadelphia, October 24, 1793.

Sir:

I arrived at my house yesterday evening, where I found
your letter of the 14th instant ; having previously received that
of the 25th of September, by the circuitous route of Albany, the
evening before my departure from New-York.

As to the right of the President to convene Congress out of
the ordinary course, I think it stands as follows — "he may on ex-
traordinary occasions convene both houses of Congress or either
of them." These are the words of the Constitution. Nothing is
said as to time or place — nothing restrictive as to either ; I there-
fore think they both stand on the same footing. The discretion

478 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36

of the President extends to place as well as time. The reason of
the thing as well as the words of the Constitution would extend
it to both. The usual seat of the government may be in posses-
sion of an enemy, it may be swallowed up by an earthquake.

I know of no law that abridges in this respect the discretion
of the President — if a law could abridge a constitutional discre-
tion of either branch.

But the doubt with me is whether the " extraordinary occa-
sion" mentioned in the Constitution, be not some unforeseen
occurrence in the public affairs, which renders it advisable for
the public service to convene Congress at some time different
from that which the Constitution or some law has established ;
in other words, to anticipate their ordinary meeting, to have a
special session for a special object of public business out of the pre-
established course.

I doubt therefore, whether the circumstance of a contagious
disease existing at the seat of government, be a constitutional
ground for convening Congress at another place, but at the same
time, they had premeditated.

And I know that there are respectable opinions against the
power of the President to change the place of meeting in such a
case, so as I think to render it inexpedient to take the step.

But the President may recommend a meeting at some other
place, as a place of preliminary rendezvous for the members of
the two houses, that they may informally concert what further
the exigency may require, and my present opinion inclines in
favor of such a measure.

The question then would be, what place is the most eligible.
Obvious reasons render it desirable that it should be as near Phi-
ladelphia as may consist with the motive for naming such a
place, (to wit,) the safety of the members. I. Innovation upon
the existing arrangement with regard to the seat of government,
ought to be avoided as much as possible. II. Congress may
think it necessary for regularity to go within the limits of the
city (though but for an hour), to give legality by some summary
act to another place of meeting ; and with this view it will be
convenient to meet at no great distance from the city. III. The
place recommended may influence the place of session. The

JEt. 36.]

CABINET PAPERS. 479

President and Heads of Departments ought to be near Congress,
but they cannot be long remote from their offices, and a removal
of the public offices for one session would be in many ways an
evil. Lastly, the less the President in such cases departs from
the pre-established course, the less room there will be for cavil.

All these reasons would operate^ in favor of German town, if
competent only to the momentary accommodation of Congress.
Mr. Peters and some other gentlemen affirm that it is. I have
myself great doubt on the point, and I have not had time to ex-
amine, but I cannot help paying deference to the opinion of
those who assert its competency.

There is, however, another consideration not unworthy of
attention. Experience seems to decide satisfactorily that there
would be due safety at Germantown ; but it is very probable, this
would not appear to be the case to the members generally. The
alarm appears to be greatest in proportion as you go furthest
from the seat of the disease. Yet I should hope the President's re-
commendation stating the fact as evidenced by experience would
appease the apprehensions of the parties concerned.

If Germantown should not be found adequate, on the score
of accommodation, Trenton, Eeading, Lancaster and Wilming-
ton, are the places which present themselves to choice as most
eligible ; nothing more northerly or southerly ought to be
thought of. A place in Pennsylvania will best please the Penn-
sylvanians. They would be very jealous of Trenton, and they
would have some, though less jealousy of Wilmington ; Lancas-
ter would afford better accommodation than Reading. Wilming-
ton would, I apprehend, be the most agreeable of these places to
Congress.

But I am, upon the whole, of opinion that it will be best to
make Germantown do if possible. It will be time enough to de-
cide when you arrive, and the interval will be employed to ex-
amine the ground.

Mrs. Hamilton and myself are very sensible to the obliging
interest you have manifested on our recovery. Exercise and
northern air have restored us beyond expectation. We are
very happy that Mrs. Washington and yourself escaped.
I have the honor to remain, &c,

480 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

CABINET OPINION.

At sundry meetings of the Heads of Departments and Attor-
ney-General, from the 1st to the 21st of November, 1793, at the
President's, several matters were agreed upon as stated in the
following letters from the Secretary of State, to wit :

Nov. 8. — Circular letter to the Eepresentatives of France,
Great Britain, Spain, and the United Netherlands, fixing provis-
ionally the extent of our jurisdiction into the sea at a sea-league.

Nov. 10. — Circular letter to the District- Attorneys, notifying
the same, and committing to them the taking depositions in those
cases.

Same date. — Circular to the foreign representatives, notifying
how depositions are to be taken in those cases.

The substance of the preceding letters were agreed to by all,
and the rough drafts were submitted to them and approved.

Nov. 14. — Letter to Mr. Hammond, that the United States are
not bound to restore the Kochampton. This was agreed to by
all. The rough draft was submitted to be approved by Col.
Hamilton and Mr. Eandolph. Gen. Knox was absent on a visit
to Trenton.

Nov. 10. — Letters to Mr. Genet and Mr. Hammond, and the
14th, to Mr. Hollingsworth, for taking depositions in the case of
the Coningham and Pilgrim.

Nov. 15. — Letters to Genet, Hammond, and Mr. Eawle, for
depositions in the case of the William.

Nov. 14. — Letter to Hollingsworth, to ascertain whether Mr.
Morissonier had passed sentence on the Eochampton and Pilgrim.

These last-mentioned letters of the 10th, 14th, and 15th, were
as to their substance agreed on by all; the drafts were only
communicated to Mr. Eandolph and approved by him.

Nov. 13. — To Mr. Hammond, inquiring when we shall have
an answer on the inexecution of the treaty. The substance
agreed on by all. The letter was sent off without communica-
tion, some of the gentlemen being at Germantown.

Nov. 22. — To Mr. Genet, returning the commissions of Pen-
nevest and Cheni, because not addressed to the President.

^t. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 481

Same date. — To Mr. Genet, inquiring whether the Lovely
Lass, Prince William Henry, and Jane of Dublin, have been
given up, and if not, requiring that they be now restored to
owners.

These were agreed to by all as to their matter, and the letters
themselves were submitted before they were sent to the Presi-
dent, the Secretary of War, and the Attorney-General, the Sec-
retary of the Treasury absent.

Same date. — To Mr. Gore, for authentic evidence of Daunery's
protest on the President's revocation of Duplaine's exequatur.
The substance agreed to by all. The letter sent off before com-
munication.

Th. Jefferson,

H. Knox,

Edm. Kandolph,

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Fair Hill, Nov. 3d, 1793.

Sir:

Not having been in condition to attend you yesterday, and
(though free from fever) yet not being well enough to go abroad
immediately, I have concluded to submit to you by a line the
result of my further reflections on the subject of my last letter.

I believe it will be altogether safe for the ensuing session of
Congress to be held at Philadelphia, and that the good of the
public service requires it, if possible. Under the existing pros-
pect, I do not think it would be advisable for the President to
give the business a different direction by any preliminary step.
But as the apprehensions of distant members will probably be
too much alive, it is desirable they should, if possible, be brought
in the vicinity of Philadelphia some days beforehand, to examine
and judge for themselves. It is likely they will then be satisfied
d 31

482 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

that they can safely sit in the city. If otherwise, their senti-
ments concerning another place can be collected, as a guide to
the President. To effect this end, I would advise that circular
letters be written (say by the Attorney-General, the Secretary of
State not being here) to the respective members, informally re-
commending to them, as on the part of the President, to repair
to Germantown and its vicinity some days, not more than a week,
prior to the day for the meeting of Congress ; giving the reasons
for this recommendation.

I prefer this to any public act, because there is an inconve-
nience in giving any sort of formality to an unauthoritative
proceeding.

An objection to the proceeding is, that the remote Southern
members cannot be reached in time. But the answer to this is,
that they will probably come forward of course to some neigh-
boring State — New- York, Delaware, or Maryland — and letters
for them may be lodged in each.

With true respect and attachment, I have the honor to be, &c.

SUNDRY MATTERS TO BE COMMUNICATED FOR THE INFORMA-
TION OF CONGRESS, EITHER IN THE SPEECH AT THE OPEN-
ING OF THE SESSION, OR BY MESSAGES THEREAFTER, AS
SHALL BE THOUGHT BEST.

Draft by Washington.

November, 1793.

Proclamation informing the United States of the actual state
of things as they stood between them and the powers at war.

State of our application respecting the surrender of the West-
ern posts.

Additional instructions of his Britannic Majesty relative to
corn, &c. in neutral vessels.

State of matters as it respects our negotiations with Spain —
relative to territory and the navigation of the river Mississippi.

^Et. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 483

Correspondence with Mr. Genet, minister from the French
republic.

The impediments which have taken place in the intended
ransom of our citizens, captives in Algiers, and treaty with the
Barbary States.

Treaty attempted with the Western Indians, and the result
of it.

March of the army in consequence of it delayed by the sus-
pension we were held in thereby.

State of matters as they relate to the Creeks and Cherokees ;
and to the frontiers of Georgia and the South- Western Territory.

Would not a trade on public ground with all the bordering
tribes of Indians (if they can once be made sensible of their folly
by the superiority of our arms) be an effectual mean of attaching
them to us by the strongest of all ties, interest ?

The utility of establishing proper arsenals, unfolds itself more
and more every day ; and the propriety of a military academy
for teaching the art of gunnery and engineering, can scarcely be
doubted. A war at any time would evince the impropriety of
such a neglect.

Might it not be expedient to take off the tax upon the trans-
portation of newspapers, &c. ?

An act of the legislature, south-west of the Ohio, passed No-
vember 20th. 1792, deposited in the Secretary of State's office.

As both Kepresentatives and President are newly chosen,
and it is their first meeting, may it not be a good occasion, and
proper for the latter to express his sentiments of the honor con-
ferred on him by his fellow-citizens ? The former is an aug-
mented body. The times are critical ; and much temper, and
cool, deliberate reflection is necessary to maintain peace with
dignity and safety to the United States.

Appointments during the recess of Congress to be laid before
the Senate.

484 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

HEADS OF SUBJECTS.
By E. Randolph.

Heads of subjects to be communicated to Congress ; some at the open-

ing1 others by messages.

1. The proclamation, and the reasons for issuing it, together
with an observation on the French treaty.

2. The selling of prizes in our ports.

3. The engagement concerning compensation for vessels cap-
tured under certain circumstances.

4. The propriety of vesting the federal courts with power to
aid the Executive in cases of capture.

5. The enaction of a particular penalty against consuls of
foreign nations opening courts in the United States.

6. The necessity of providing means for commanding respect
from foreign vessels which are refractory.

7. To submit to Congress, whether it be better to rest the
jurisdictional claim into the sea as it stands, or to assert a parti-
cular distance by law.

8. The abortive attempt to treat with the Western Indians.

9. The situation of the United States with respect to France,
Great Britain, and Spain.

10. Military intelligence.

11. To provide some other place for the sessions of Congress,
in case that of their last sitting should be improper, &c.

12. Has any loan been effected which ought to be commu-
nicated ?

Quere. Whether Mr. Genet's propositions as to commerce
are to be sent to the Senate executively, or to Congress.

13. The memorial on the guarantee.

Mr. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 485

OBJECTS TO BE COMMUNICATED IN SPEECH AND MESSAGES.

By Hamilton.

I. Proclamation.

II. Embarrassments in carrying into execution the principles
of neutrality ; necessity of some auxiliary provisions by law. . . .

III. Expectation of indemnification given in relation to illegal
captures.

IV. State of our affairs with regard to Great Britain, Spain,
and France — claim of Guarantee — propositions respecting Trade.

V. Indian affairs — failure of Treaty — state of expedition
under Wayne — prospects with regard to Southern Indians.

VI. Prudence of additional precautions for defence, as the
best security for the peace of the country.

1. ' Fortification of principal sea-ports.
2. Corps of efficient militia.

VII. Completion of settlement of Accounts between the
United and Individual States ; Provision for balances.

VIII. Provision for a sinking fund.

IX. Our revenues in the aggregate have continued to answer
expectation as to productiveness, but if the various objects
pointed out, and which appear to be necessary to the public
interest, are to be accomplished, it can hardly be hoped that
there will not be a necessity for some moderate addition to them.

X. Prolongation of the Dutch instalment by way of loan
■ terms.

XI. Provision for the second instalment due to Bank of
United States.

XII. For interest in the unsubscribed debt during the present
year. Quere.

XIIL Communication of the state of cessions of Light-houses.
The cession in various instances has not been entire; it has
reserved a partial right of jurisdiction for process ; consequently
is not strictly conformable to law.

XIV. Commissary to receive, issue and account for all public
stores, would conduce much to order and economy.

486 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

president's speech.

Draft by Hamilton.

1793.

It is greatly to be lamented, for the sake of humanity, that
the flame of war, which had before spread over a considerable
part of Europe, has, within the present year, extended itself
much further; implicating all those powers with whom the
United States have the most extensive relations. When it was
seen here, that almost all the maritime nations either were, or
were likely soon to become parties to the war, it was natural that
it should excite serious reflections about the possible conse-
quences to this country. On the one hand, it appeared desirable,
that no impressions in reference to it should exist with any of the
powers engaged, of a nature to precipitate arrangements or
measures tending to interrupt or endanger our peace. On the
other it was probable, that designing or inconsiderate persons
among ourselves, might, from different motives, embark in enter-
prises contrary to the duties of a nation at peace with nations at
war with each other ; . . . . and, of course, calculated to invite
and to produce reprisals and hostilities. Adverting to these con-
siderations, in a situation both new and delicate, I judged it
advisable to issue a proclamation (here insert the substance of the
proclamation). The effects of this measure have, I trust, neither
disappointed the views which dictated it, nor disserved the true
interests of our country.

The Commissioners charged with the settlement of Accounts
between the United and the Individual States, completed that
important business within the time limited by law ; and the bal-
ances which they have reported, have been placed upon the
Books of the Treasury. A copy of their Report, bearing date
the day of last, will be laid before Congress for their

information.

The importance of the object will justify me in recalling to
your consideration the expediency of a regular and adequate
provision for the redemption and discharge of the Public Debt.

^t. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 487

Several obvious considerations render the economy of time, in
relation to this measure, peculiarly interesting and desirable.

It is necessary that provision should be also made for paying
the second instalment of the loan of two millions from the Bank
of the United States, agreeably to the terms of that loan ; the
first having been paid, pursuant to the provisions for that pur-
pose, made during the last session.

On the first day of June last an instalment of 1,000,000 of
florins became payable on the loans of the United States in Hol-
land. This was adjusted by a prolongation of the period of
reimbursement, in nature of a new loan, at an interest of five per
cent., for the term of ten years. The charges upon this opera-
tion were a commission of three per cent. It will readily be per-
ceived that the posture of European affairs is calculated to affect
unfavorably the measures of the United States for borrowing
abroad.

The productiveness of the public revenues hitherto has con-
tinued to equal the anticipations which were formed of it ; but
it is not expected that it will prove commensurate with all the
objects which have been suggested. Some auxiliary provisions
will, therefore, it is presumed, be requisite ; but these, it is hoped,
can be made consistently with a due regard to the convenience of
our citizens, who cannot but be sensible of the true wisdom of
encountering a small present addition to their contributions for
the public service, to avoid a future accumulation of burthens.

RANDOLPH TO HAMILTON.

Germantown, Nov. 15th, 1793.

Sir:

Your letter of the 9th instant was delivered to me yesterday.

It is a desirable thing for the cause of humanity, that the
vessels therein described should be exempted from tonnage.
But this must be the act of the legislature, and cannot arise

488 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

from the construction of the collection law — the cause of their
quitting the island of St. Domingo not being the species of
necessity contemplated by that act.
I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Nov. 23d, 1793.

The Secretary of the Treasury, upon two letters from the
Minister Plenipotentiary of France to the Secretary of State,
severally bearing elate the 11th and 14th of November inst.,
respectfully reports to the President of the United States as
follows :

1. The object of these letters is, to procure an engagement
that the bills which the minister may draw upon the sums,
which, according to the terms of the contracts respecting the
French debt, would fall due in the years 1794 and 1795, shall
be accepted on the part of the United States, paj^able at the
periods stipulated for the payment of those sums respectively.

The following considerations are submitted, as militating
against the proposed arrangement :

1. According to the view entertained at the Treasury of the
situation of the account between France and the United States,
adjusting equitably the question of depreciation, there have al-
ready been anticipated payments to France, equal or nearly
equal to the sums falling due in the course of the year 1794.

2. The provision by law for discharging the principal of the
French debt, contemplates only loans. Of those which have
been hitherto made, the sum unexpended is not more than com-
mensurate with a payment which is to be made on the 1st of
June next, upon account of the capital of the Dutch debt. It is
possible that a fund for this payment may be derived from an-
other loan ; but it is known to the President that, from advices
recently received, fall reliance cannot be placed on this resource)

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 489

owing to the influence of the present state of European affairs
upon the measures of the United States for borrowing. It need
not be observed, that a failure in making the payment referred
to, would be ruinous to the credit of the United States.

The acceptance of the bills of the Minister of France, would
virtually pledge the only fund of which there is, at present, a
certainty for accomplishing that payment ; and as this is a mat-
ter of strict obligation, directly affecting the public credit, it
would not appear advisable to engage that fund for a different
object, which, if the ideas of the Treasury are right with regard
to the state of our account with France, does not stand upon a
similar footing.

It would be manifestly unsafe to presume upon contingencies,
or to enter into engagements to be executed at distant periods,
when the means of execution are uncertain.

But, as there appears to be a difference of opinion between the
Minister of France and the Treasury, with regard to the state of
the account between the two countries, it is necessary that some-
thing on this head should be ascertained. With this view, the
Secretary of the Treasury will proceed, without delay, to take
arrangements for the adjustment of the account.

Alexander Hamilton,

Secretary of the Treasury.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

November 23d, 1793.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President. He regrets extremely that the state of his health
does not permit him to attend the President to-day. He has the
honor to inclose a report on two of the letters to Mr. Genet, and
would have embraced the third, respecting the protested bills, if
it had been in his power. But no inconvenience can in this case
ensue, as the supposed mistake with regard to the funds already

490 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

promised has been adjusted, and the inclosed report embraces
and answers the question of advance upon a future fund. The
report would have been more full and precise, if my situation had
permitted ; but my frame is so disordered as almost to unfit me for
business.

JEFFERSON TO GENET.

Germantown, November 24th, 1793.

Sir:

I laid before the President of the United States your two let-
ters of the 11th and 14th instant, on the subject of new advances of
money, and they were immediately referred to the Secretary of
the Treasury, within whose department subjects of this nature
lie. I have now the honor of inclosing you a copy of his report
thereon to the President, in answer to your letters, and of adding
assurances of respect and esteem of, Sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO JEFFERSON.

Treasury Department, Nov. 30th, 1793.

Sir:

I have taken the opinion of the Attorney-General, in the
case of the St. Domingo vessels mentioned in your letter of the
2d September last, which confirms that which I had before en-
tertained, and, on further reflection, continue to entertain, name-
ly, that those vessels do not fall within the meaning of the 38th
section of the collection law, respecting vessels that put into our
ports from distress or necessity, and, of course, are liable by law
to the payment of the duty of tonnage, from which it is not with-
in the compass of executive discretion to relieve them, whatever
circumstances of hardship may exist.

jEt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 491

A copy of the opinion of the Attorney-General is herewith
transmitted.

The law appears more manifestly to contemplate cases of dis-
tress or necessity, from canses which compel a vessel, being on a
voyage for another port, to change her destination for a port of
the United States ; not the case of a vessel which, induced by a
civil insurrection to quit a foreign port, finds it most convenient
to make a voyage to the United States.

I return, inclosed, the letter from the Yice-Consul of Yirginia,
and have the honor to be, with respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Dec. 2, 1793.

The Secretary of the Treasury on the letter from the Minister
Plenipotentiary of France to the Secretary of State of the 15th
instant, respectfully makes the following report to the President
of the United States.

It is true as alleged by the Minister, that certain drafts of his
on the Treasury have not been admitted.

Some of them were predicated upon the fund engaged to him
in November ; but one of them for twenty thousand dollars, was
expressed to be upon the funds which should be at the disposal
of France in January, 1794.

With respect to the first kind, an accidental error occasioned
the temporary exclusion of some drafts, which were within the
proper limit. The clerk charged with registering the bills as
presented, had noted one as for forty thousand dollars, which
was afterwards found to be for only fourteen thousand; whereby
the fund stipulated appeared to have been exceeded, when in
fact there was yet a balance. But as soon as the error was dis-
covered, the consequences were rectified.

The draft expressed to be upon funds to be at the disposal of

492 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 36.

France in January 1794, was refused, because it was not warrant-
ed by any previous arrangement, or even notice.

The funds by arrangement put in the disposal of the minister
were definite, viz., one million and five hundred thousand livres
payable on the third of September last, deducting ninety-four
thousand five hundred six dollars and ten and a half cents to be
paid for bills drawn by the administration of St. Domingo, and
one million of livres payable on the fifth day of November fol"
lowing. The precision given to this arrangement will be seen
by the copy of my letter to him of the 24th July last, herewith
communicated. No other arrangement was made.

The minister ought not to have operated upon the accessory
fund of interest, for two reasons ; first, because the terms of the
arrangement with him did not include it; secondly, because it
could only have been properly considered as payable of course, if
it had been mutually understood as absolutely becoming due,
unaffected by any antecedent payment; whereas the minister
had been informed, that the advances which had been made
were supposed to have exceeded the sums due, according to the
stipulated course of payment.

It need only be added that to preserve order in money
transactions it is essential to proceed with regularity ; that an
unauthorized latitude of drawing upon the Treasury could not
without impropriety and inconvenience be countenanced by it,
and that it was reasonable to expect that Mr. Genet, being at no
greater distance than New- York, would not have undertaken to
exceed the limit concerted with him, without previous notice
and consent.

MESSAGE OF WASHINGTON.

December, 1793.

Gentlemen :

In my speech to the two houses of Congress at the opening of
the session,* I urged the expediency of being prepared for war,

* December, 1793.

At. 36.] CAEINET PAPERS. 493

as one of the best securities to our peace. Events which seem
daily to be unfolding themselves, press still more seriously upon
us the duty of being so prepared, indicating that the calamities
of war may, by a train of circumstances, be forced upon us, not-
withstanding the most sincere desires and endeavors to cultivate
and preserve peace.

I cannot therefore withhold from Congress the expression of
my conviction, that the United States ought, without delay, to
adopt such military arrangements as will enable them to vindi-
cate with vigor their rights, and to repel with energy any
attacks which may be made upon them; and that it may be
advisable to add some propositions calculated to exempt our com-
merce from being the prey of foreign depredations.

The blessings of peace are, in my view, so precious, that they
will continue to engage my most zealous exertions for their con-
tinuance. Under this impression, the suggestions I have made
are influenced as much by a persuasion of their tendency to pre-
serve peace, as by a sense of the necessity of being prepared for
events which may not depend on our choice.

CABINET OPINION.

December 7, 1793.

At a meeting of the Heads of Departments and Attorney-
General at the President's, on the 7th of December, 1793 —

Mr. Genet's letter of Dec. 3, questioning the right of requir-
ing the address of consular commissions to the President, was
read. It is the opinion that the address may be either to the
United States or to the President of the United States, but that
one of these should be insisted on.

A letter from James King was read, dated Philadelphia, Nov.
25, 1793, complaining of the capture of his schooner Nancy by
a British privateer and carried into New Providence, and that
the court there has thrown the onus probandi on the owners, to

494 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

show that the vessel and cargo are American property. It is the
opinion that Mr. King be informed, that it is a general rule that
the government should not interpose individually, till a final de-
nial of justice has taken place in the courts of the country where
the wrong is done ; but that, a considerable degree of informa-
tion being shortly expected relative to these cases, his will be
further considered and attended to at that time.

The Secretary of State informed the President that he had
received a number of applications from Mr. Genet, on behalf of
the refugees of St. Domingo, who have been subjected to ton-
nage on their vessels and duties on their property, on taking
asylum in the ports of this country, into which they were forced
by the misfortunes of that colony. It is the opinion that the
Secretary of State may put the petitions into the hands of a
member of the legislature in his private capacity, to be present-
ed to the legislature.

Th. Jefferson,
Edm. Kandolph,
A. Hamilton,
H. Knox.

BRADFORD TO WASHINGTON — CABINET OPINION.

1793.

The Attorney-General has the honor to report, that having
considered the Eesolve of the Senate of the 20th instant, where-
by the President of the United States is requested to lay before
that body the correspondence which has been had between the
Minister of the United States at the French Kepublic and the
said Eepublic, and between said Minister and the office of Secre-
tary of State —

He is of opinion that it is the duty of the Executive to with-
hold such parts of the said correspondence as in the judgment of
the Executive shall be deemed unsafe and improper to be dis-

Mt. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 495

closed. He also conceives that the general terms of the resolve
do not exclude, in the construction of it, those just exceptions
which the rights of the Executive and the nature of foreign cor-
respondences require. Every call of this nature, where the
correspondence is secret and no specific object pointed at, must
be presumed to proceed upon the idea that the papers requested
are proper to be communicated ; and it could scarcely be sup-
posed, even if the words were stronger, that the Senate intended
to include any letters, the disclosure of which might endanger
national honor or individual safety.

The Attorney-General is therefore of opinion, that it will be
advisable for the President to communicate to the Senate such
parts of the said correspondence as upon examination he shall
deem safe and proper to disclose, withholding all such as any
circumstances may render improper to be communicated.

¥m. Bradford.

HAMILTON TO THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES.

Treasury Department, December 16th, 1793.

Sir:

It is known that in the last session certain questions were
raised respecting my conduct in office, which, though decided in
a manner the most satisfactory to me, were nevertheless unavoid-
ably, from the lateness of the period when they were set on foot,
so accelerated in the issue, as to have given occasion to a sugges-
tion that there was not time for a due examination. Unwilling
to leave the matter on such a footing, I have concluded to re-
quest of the House of Eepresentatives, as I now do, that a new
inquiry may without delay be instituted in sonic mode, the most
effectual for an accurate and thorough investigation; and I will
add, that the more comprehensive it is, the more agreeable will
it be to me.

I cannot, however, but take the liberty of assuring the

496 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt.36.

House, that a like plan to that which was pursued in the last
session, will never answer the purpose of a full and complete in-
quiry, while it would lay on me a burthen, with which neither
a proper discharge of the current duties of my office, nor the pre-
sent state of my health is compatible. The unfavorable effect
upon the business of the department of the very considerable
portion of my time which was engrossed by the inquiry of the
last session has not yet entirely ceased.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, &c.

MESSAGE OF WASHINGTON.

Draft by Hamilton.

January, 1794.
Since the application which was made to the government of
France, for the recall of its present minister, that minister has
furnished new and material causes of dissatisfaction with his
conduct. But these occasions of offence have hitherto passed
without particular notice, in the hope that it would not be long
before the arrival of an order of recall would terminate the em-
barrassment, and in the desire, inspired by sentiments of friend-
ship and respect for his nation, to avoid as long as possible an
act of extremity towards its agent. But a case has occurred,
which is conceived to render further forbearance inconsistent
with the dignity, and perhaps the safety of the United States. It
is proved, as will be seen by papers now transmitted for the in-
formation of Congress, that this foreign agent has proceeded to
the extraordinary lengths of issuing commissions in the name of
the French republic, to several of our citizens, for the purpose of
raising within the two Carolinas and Georgia, a large military
force, with the declared design of employing them, in concert
with such Indians as could be engaged in the enterprise, in an
expedition against the colonies in our neighborhood, of a nation
with whom the United States are at peace.

^t. 36.] CABINET PAPERS. 497

It would seem, likewise, from information contained in other
papers, herewith also communicated, that a similar attempt has
been going on in another quarter, namely the State of Ken-
tucky ; though the fact is not yet ascertained with the requisite
authenticity.

Proceedings so unwarrantable, so derogatory to the sove-
reignty of the United States, so dangerous in precedent and ten-
dency, appear to render it improper that the person chargeable
with them should longer continue to exercise the functions and
enjoy the privileges of a diplomatic character.

The supersedure of the exercise of those functions, neverthe-
less, being a measure of great delicacy and magnitude, I have
concluded not to come to an ultimate determination, without
first placing the subject under the eye of Congress.

But unless the one or the other house shall, in the mean time,
signify to me an opinion that it is not advisable so to do, I shall
consider it my duty to adopt that measure, after the expiration
of days from this communication.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, January 4th, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury, to whom was referred, by the
President of the United States, a letter from the Minister of the
French Republic to the Secretary of State, dated the 21st of
December last, respectfully makes the following

Report.

The Minister observes, that it results from the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury that upon an accidental error the in-
terests of the French republic and the character of its repre-
sentative were compromited by a refusal to accept drafts
delivered to the agents by whom they were supplied, for sums
due to the republic ; adding to this observation the further one,
that it seems to him that a like measure merited the most serious
d 32

498 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

attention, and that lie knows not by what name to call the
negligence which was committed in this respect.

This asperity of remark might, it would seem, have been pre-
vented by a due attention to circumstances and facts. It was
stated in the report to which the minister refers, that the error in
question was the mere mistake of the clerk charged with regis-
tering his drafts as the}*' were presented at the Treasury. It will
not be alleged that this was not the proper business of a clerk ;
and all that could be expected from the Head of the Department,
or the officer having in his place the principal direction, is, that
there should have been due care in selecting the person to whose
immediate agency the duty was intrusted. To this point there
was no want of attention. The clerk selected had been long
tried in public business, and has a well-established reputation for
fidelity and accuracy. This officer is himself persuaded that in
the instance which occasioned the demur no error was com-
mitted, and firmly believes that the convenience of parties had
produced an alteration in the bill after it was noted by him ; but
this surmise of his has been rejected, and it has been taken for
granted and admitted that there was a mistake on his part,
though, as no mark was set upon any bill presented and rioted,
that admission was founded on considerations in which candor
and delicacy governed. ISTo palliation of the mistake will be at-
tempted to be drawn from topics connected with any derange-
ment of the course of business resulting from the late calamitous
condition of the city of Philadelphia, nor from the absence of the
Secretary of the Treasury from the seat of government, for the
recovery of his health, when the incident deemed so exception-
able took place.

The hesitation about the registering of the bills which ap-
peared to have been overdrawn, was a mere consequence of the
first mistake.

The main object of the registry of the bills was to ascertain,
for the satisfaction of holders, that there were funds in the
Treasury subject to the payment of them ; and to secure to those
holders a priority, in the event of there being an overdraiving. It
was, therefore, a matter of course that the registry should cease

Mt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 499

as soon as itself showed that the amount of the bills presented
equalled the amount of the fund destined for satisfying them.
Being the proper and regular guide to the officers of the Trea-
sury, they could not but be expected to follow it.

All that could be asked (if a mistake happened) was, that the
consequences of it should be corrected as soon as the mistake
was discovered ; and this was in fact done. Nor did more than
a week elapse before the drafts, which had been suspended on
account of the mistake, were recognized and admitted.

But it is suggested by the minister, that though the error was
rectified, the injury which it occasioned has not been cured.
That event, it is asserted, has furnished to the ill-disposed, and
to the enemies of the French republic, a powerful means of hurt-
ing its cause, by alarming the merchants and ruining the credit
of its agents. If this assertion were better founded than it is, it
Would only afford room to regret the consequence of an involun-
tary error. But, whatever injury the credit of France in this
country, or of her agents, may have sustained, it is to be traced
to other sources ; more adequate causes can be assigned for it.
The assertion which has been made calls for a specification of
those causes.

The first of them was, the disappointment of our citizens in
not receiving payment of bills to a large amount, furnished to
them by the administration of St. Domingo, with assurances of
being paid here by the agents of France ; at the same time that
it was known that these agents had obtained from the govern-
ment of the United States funds adequate to such payment,
which had been applied to other objects. In mentioning this
circumstance, it is only intended to note the fact and its effects,
not to question the propriety of the application which was made
of the funds.

Another and a far more powerful cause was, the refusal of
the present Minister to pay certain bills, which had had the posi-
tive sanction of his predecessor ; diverting from that destination
funds which were understood to have been appropriated to it —
and this, too, in contravention of his own arrangement with the
Treasury.

500 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

These bills had, like those first mentioned, been drawn by the
administration of St. Domingo. But they had in addition been
virtually accepted by the late Consul of France, in concert with
its then Minister, and in conformity with an understanding be-
tween the latter and this government.

The arrival of the present Minister devolved upon him the
disposal of the unfurnished residue of the fund which had been
promised to his predecessor. An early opportunity was taken
to intimate to him the reliance of the government, that the bills
accepted as above and unpaid, would be satisfied by him out of
that residue. He gave, without hesitation, a correspondent
assurance, and on the third of June last addressed to the Secre-
tary of the Treasury, a letter in the following terms, viz. : "I
pray you to put hereafter in the disposition of Citizen Bournon-
ville, Secretary of Legation of the Eepublic, the funds destined
to the acquittal of the drafts of the Colony of St. Domingo, ac-
cording to the order of payment settled between you and my
predecessor."

A part of these funds was accordingly put into the hands of
Mr. Bournonville, in expectation that they would be applied as
had been agreed. And upon the inquiries of some of the hold-
ers of the bills at the Treasury, in whom apprehensions had been
excited, they were assured that they need not entertain any, as it
was the known intention of the present Minister to fulfil the en-
gagements of his predecessor ; and that funds had been furnished
to him for taking up the bills which were falling due.

The Minister afterwards deemed it necessary to change the
destination of these funds, as he announced in his letter of the
18th of June to the Secretary of State, and in fact refused pay-
ment of the bills.

This measure, of a nature destructive to credit, had the effect
which was to have been anticipated.

The very expedient of registering at the Treasury the drafts
of the Minister, was rendered necessary by a pre-existing bad
state of credit. It engaged the Treasury to nothing more than
to secure to those who presented bills a preference against others
to whom subsequent drafts might be given, overrunning the fund

^t. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 501

for payment; and was devised to facilitate to the Minister an
auxiliary mean of credit of which he stood in need.

These unquestionable truths demonstrate that there is no
room to impute to the consequences of the mistake which was
committed, any deficiency of credit which may have embar-
rassed the operations of the Minister.

But it is a further truth, that if his credit has suffered by the
refusal of the Treasury to admit his drafts, it is chiefly to be
referred to the draft for 20,000 dollars predicated upon the fund
to be at the disposal of France in January, which was finally
refused, because not authorized by any previous arrangement
between the government and the Minister.

The temporary demur about other bills speedily abandoned
and explained, could not have had an influence bearing any pro-
portion to that of the ultimate refusal of the above-mentioned
bill.

As far as this refusal may have had a prejudicial operation,
it is imputable wholly to the irregularity of having drawn the
bill, not only without the consent of the government, but even
contrary to an intimation from it ; in a case, too, in which it was
free to refuse.

That it was with the consent of the government, will not be
pretended. The letter from the Secretary of the Treasury to the
Minister, of the 24th of July, accompanying his former report on
the subject, excludes all plea of constructive or implied consent.

That it was contrary to an intimation from the government,
results from the following facts :

The Minister, by a letter of the 14th June to the Secretary of
State, communicates the intention of giving to those who should
furnish him with supplies, " delegations," or assignments of the
debt to France in payment; desiring as a prerequisite to this
operation, that the Treasury should be instructed to come to a
speedy adjustment with him, of the account of the debt from the
United States to France.

To this suggestion the Secretary of State, by a letter of
the 19th of June, (after assuring him that instructions would
be given for the settlement of the account,) replied as fol-

502 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 37.

lows: "In the mean time, what is further to be done, will
doubtless be the subject of further reflection and inquiry with
you, and particularly the operation proposed in your letter will
be viewed under all its aspects. Among these we think it will
present itself as a measure too questionable both in principle and
practicability, too deeply interesting to the credit of the United
States, and too unpromising in its result to France to be found
eligible to yourself. Finally, we rest secure that what is of mutual
concern will not he clone but with mutual concert1'1

Without mutual concert, without even an intervening con-
sultation for that purpose, the minister thought proper to issue
his "delegations" or drafts upon a fund not embraced by any
previous arrangement ; and he now makes it matter of complaint
that these " delegations" were not registered. Was it to have
been expected that the Treasury should become the passive in-
strument of a measure so irregular — so unwarrantable ?

But the minister, in justification of the step, makes two ob-
servations.

1. That as the 300,000 livres due the first of January, are
the interest of the loan of 600,000 made by France to the United
States in 1783, the reimbursements of which are not to commence till
1797, he can see no motive that could arrest the payment of the
interest of that sum at the epoch stipulated, as long as there was
due to France an equivalent.

2. That supposing the payments, which have been made by
the Treasury, to exceed the amount of the sums due, he has al-
ways been firmly convinced that these advances (to which the
urgent wants of France had forced a recource) would be applied
to the extinction of the debt taken in totality ; a measure per-
fectly agreeing with the clause inserted in the different contracts
which expresses that the United States might, if they judged
proper, liberate themselves sooner than the epoch fixed by those
contracts.

These observations admit of obvious answers. 'Tis affirmed
on our part, and the minister seems himself to be sensible of its
truth, that our payments hitherto exceeded the sums demanda-
ble by the terms of our contracts. It may be taken for granted,

tEt.37.] CABINET PAPERS. 503

that this is the case beyond the amount of the interest of the
600,000 accruing in January. The United States are at liberty
to consider the excess as an anticipation of the capital of the
loans ; but they are not bound to do so. They have no option
to do that, or to set it off against the interest accruing on the
unpaid residue of the debt. The universal course of business
will justify them in the latter, and their contracts say nothing to
the contrary. Not having declared a different option, they were
free to pursue that alternative, and consequently, as has been
said, to refuse the drafts of the minister, predicated upon the
January interest.

The circumstance which he notices, of the reimbursements of
the 600,000 loan not commencing till 1797, cannot affect this con-
clusion. These reimbursements so postponed, relate to the capi-
tal of the debt ; and that postponement of course cannot bring
into question the propriety of setting off against the interest an-
nually payable, sums advanced beyond those which were ante-
cedently due.

The conviction of the minister, that the advances which
might have been made, would be deferred toward the final ex-
tinction of the debt, could be no rule to the Treasury, as long as
it had not been authorized by any assurance from the govern-
ment ; or when it was recollected, that the propriety of a mutual
previous concert, about whatever was not a matter of course,
was indicated to him, not only by the reason of the thing, but
by unequivocal declarations.

In fact, whether the course on which he declares himself to
have relied, could have been pursued or not, depended on cir-
cumstances ; that is, on the means which should exist of making
intermediate payments, and postponing the advances to an ulte-
rior arrangement ; a point at this moment unascertained, from
causes which have heretofore been disclosed.

But the minister not only hazarded his credit, by drawing
without a previous arrangement, the bill for 20,000 dollars, pay-
able out of the January interest; he hazarded it likewise by actu-
tually overdrawing the funds placed at his disposal in September
and November last ; so that if no mistake had occurred at the

504 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 37.

Treasury, he might have been exposed by his own conduct to
consequences which, in that respect, happened by accident.

The Secretary now proceeds to the demands contained in the
memorial of the minister. These are —

1. That the state of the account of the United States with
France be presented with the least possible delay.

2. That the sums, which may have been advanced to France,
beyond those which were demandable on the terms of the con-
tracts, be applied to the extinction of the debt taken in totality.

3. That, provisionally, and until the state of the account can
be determined, the Secretary of the Treasury be authorized to
register the " delegations," or drafts, which the minister shall
have occasion to issue, to the extent of five millions tournois.

With regard to the first point, the account is now in a course
of adjustment between the Comptroller, on the part of the Trea-
sury, and Mr. Bournonville on the part of the minister. There
are some points which require a mutual adjustment before they
can be fixed definitively. A correct view of the account cannot
be presented till these points are settled. That done, it shall be
immediately laid before the President.

With regard to the second point, the Secretary is of opinion
that a determination concerning it cannot now be made. The
adoption of the minister's proposition would amount to an agree-
ment to pay the accruing instalments at the periods stipulated in
the contracts, though the advances which have been made should
exceed them. But such an agreement cannot safely be entered
into, because it is now problematical whether the Executive will
be possessed in time of funds which can be applied to that purpose,
without neglecting objects of positive obligation and essential to
our credit, as has been already explained and communicated.

With regard to the third point, the answer to the second is
an answer to this also. If rightly understood, this proposition
depends upon the second. It appears necessary, first, to ascer-
tain what is to be paid; and when it is to be paid, before any
sanction can safely be given to the proposed " delegations " or
drafts. This presupposes a settlement of accounts, and a fur-
ther view of our pecuniary prospects.

All which is respectfully submitted.

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 505

CABINET OPINION.

January 14th, 1794.

At a meeting of the Heads of the Departments, at the Presi-
dent's, on the 14th day of January, 1794 —

It was propounded by the President whether, in considera-
tion of the eminent services of M. de Lafayette to the United
States, and his present sufferings, it be not advisable for the
President, in a private and unofficial character, to address the
King of Prussia a letter, requesting his release on parole, founded
on motives of personal friendship only. The opinion is, that
such a letter is proper to be written.

H. Knox,

Alexander Hamilton.
Edm. Randolph.

CABINET OPINION.

January 28th, 1794.

At a meeting of the Heads of Departments, January 28th,
1794, upon consideration of the resolution of the Senate of
January 24th, 1794, calling for the correspondences therein
mentioned —

General Knox is of opinion, that no part of the correspond-
ences should be sent to the Senate :

Colonel Hamilton, that the correct mode of proceeding is to
do what General Knox advises ; but that the principle is safe,
by excepting such parts as the President may choose to with-
hold :

Mr. Randolph, that all the correspondence proper, from its
nature, to be communicated to the Senate, should be sent;

506 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

but that what the President thinks improper, should not be

sent.

In either form, messages are recommended to be prepared.

H. Knox,

Alexander Hamilton,
Edm. Kandolph.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, 10th February, 1794.

Sir:

The inclosed letter of the 27th of last month, from the Col-
lector of Tappahannock, relates to a subject equally delicate and
disagreeable. It is my duty to add, that bills have returned
protested to the amount of 3,000 dollars.

This conduct, though, I trust, proceeding from no ill motive
in the Collector, is of a nature so fatal to the punctual collection
of the revenue, and at the same time so vitally injurious to the
public credit, that I cannot forbear to submit it as my opinion,
that the public good requires the superseding of the officer.

With perfect respect, &c.

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

March 8th , 1794.

The present situation of the United States is undoubtedly
critical, and demands measures vigorous, though prudent. We
ought to be in a respectable military posture, because war may
come upon us, whether we choose it or not ; and because, to be
in a condition to defend ourselves, and annoy any who may

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 507

attack us, will be the best method of securing our peace. If it is
known that our principal maritime points are out of the reach of
any but formal serious operations, and that the government has
an efficient active force in its disposal for defence or offence on
an emergency, there will be much less temptation to attack us,
and much more hesitation to provoke us.
It seems then advisable —

1. To fortify the principal ports in the several States (say one
in each State), so as to be able to resist a merely maritime attack,
or any thing but a regular siege.

2. To raise 20,000 auxiliary troops, upon a plan something
like the following, viz. :

To be divided into ten regiments.

Each regiment to consist of two battalions, and of the follow-
ing officers and men :

1 colonel, 2 majors, 10 captains, 20 lieutenants, 2 lieutenants
and adjutants, 2 sergeant-majors, 40 sergeants, 4 musicians, and
1,000 rank and file.

These troops to be engaged upon the following terms :

To be enlisted for two years ; but upon condition, that if a
war should break out with any European power, they shall be
obliged to serve four years from the commencement of such war,
upon the same terms as the troops of the establishment.

To receive as a bounty, clothes with 12 dollars per man.

To be under an obligation to meet forty days in the year, and
thirty of these days to encamp. When assembled, to be paid,
officers and men, as the troops of the establishment, and to have
the same subsistence and rations. To be furnished with arms
and accoutrements by the United States, to be surrendered at
the expiration of their term of service.

The officers in time of war to rank and rise with the officers
of the military establishment. The arrangement to cease, ipso
/'"do, at the expiration of a certain term (about two years).

The expense of these operations would be,

For the fortifications, $150,000

For the auxiliary troops, per annum, .... 350,000

§500,000

508 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

In addition to this, the legislature ought to vest the Presi-
dent of the United States with the power to lay an embargo,
partial or general, and to arrest the exportation of commodities,
partially or generally.

It may also deserve consideration, whether the Executive
ought not to take measures to form some concert of the neutral
powers for common defence.

Mr. Hamilton presents his respects to the President — submits
to him some reveries which have occupied his imagination. It
may be interesting for the President to consider whether some
such plan is not demanded by the conjuncture of affairs; and if
so, whether there ought not to be some Executive impulse.
Many persons look to the President for the suggestion of mea-
sures corresponding with the exigency of affairs. As far as this
idea may be founded, many important and delicate ideas are in-
volved in the consideration.

The pains taken to preserve peace, include a proportional re-
sponsibility that equal pains be taken to be prepared for war.

CABINET OPINION.

March 11th, 1794.

At a meeting of the Heads of Departments, and the Attorney-
General, on the 11th of March, 1794—

It is advised unanimously, that Mr. Fauchet be informed,
that he shall be supplied with the instalments due in September
and November next, according to the manner expressed in the
report of the Secretary of the Treasury to the President, on this
subject.

It is proposed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and of War,
and by the Attorney-General, that it be verbally stated to Mr.
Fauchet, by the Secretary of State, that, notwithstanding the
desire of the President to accommodate his request, the situation

Mt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 509

of the United States will not permit him to go farther than as
above mentioned.

The Secretary of State proposes, that an attempt be made to
satisfy Mr. Fauchet verbally, with the foregoing engagement;
but if he does not relinquish his application, that it be forwarded
to Congress.

Edm. Kandolph.

Approved, reserving the last mentioned proposition of the Sec
retary of State for further consideration.

A. Hamilton,
H. Knox,
Wm. Bradford.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, March 21st, 1794.

Sir:

A law having passed, to enable the President to cause a loan
to be made in aid of the current receipts from the public reve-
nues, it is urgent that measures should be taken without delay
for carrying it into effect.

The inclosed statement shows the probable situation of the
Treasury to the end of the ensuing quarter, as far as materials
are now possessed, and manifests the necessity of an immediate
aid by loan.

I therefore submit to the President the draft of a power in
the usual form to authorize the making of the loan.

With perfect respect, &c.

510 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 37.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

March 24, 1794.

Sir:

A committee of tlie House of Kepresentatives, appointed to
inquire into the state of the Treasury Department, is charged,
among other things, to inquire into the authorities from the
President to the Secretary of the Treasury respecting the making
and disbursement of the loans made under the acts of the 4th
and 12th August, 1790. You will perceive by the inclosed copy
of a paper of this date, delivered to the committee, the opinion I
entertain of the proper limits of a legislative inquiry on that
subject.

But, in the event of a determination that the inquiry should
be general, it becomes proper to fix with the President the true
view of facts.

The real course of the transaction has been this. Before I
made the disposition of any loan, I regularly communicated to
the President my ideas of the proper disposition, designating how
much it would be expected to pay to France — how much to
draw to the United States, and always received his sanction for
what was adopted and afterwards carried into execution. The
communication and the sanction were verbal whenever the
President was at the seat of government. In a case of absence,
they were in writing. This will appear from my letters of the
10th and 14th April, 1791, and from the President's answer of
the 7th of May following. My letters of the 29th July and 22d
September, 1791, and of the August and 22d September,

1792, contain a further illustration of the general spirit of pro-
ceeding in the case, in regard to the consultation of the President.

The sanctions of the President were sometimes expressly,
and always, as I conceived, in their spirit, founded in a material
degree in the confidence that the measures proposed were guided
by a just estimate on my part of circumstances, which, from
situation, must have been best known to me; and that they
would be always in conformity to the law.

With the most perfect respect, &c.

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 511

CABINET OPINION.

March 26, 1794.

At a meeting of the Heads of Departments, and the Attorney-
General of the United States, at the President's, on the 26th day
of March, 1794—

The resolution of Congress of this date being submitted to
them by the President, for their opinion as to the best mode of
executing the same —

It is advised unanimously, that the Governors of the several
States ought to be called upon to enforce the said embargo by
the militia, whensoever it may be necessary to appeal to force.

Edm. Eandolph,
A. Hamilton,
H. Knox,
Wm. Bradford.

CABINET OPINION.

March 27, 1794.
At a meeting of the Heads of Departments, and Attorney-
General, March 27, 1794—

The Secretary of War, the Attorney -General, and the Secre-
tary of State, advise that the Conyngham be not delivered up to
the British owners ; the Secretary of the Treasury dissenting.

The Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of War, and
the Attorney-General, advise that the Pilgrim be delivered up to
the British owners; the Secretary of State dissenting.

Alex. Hamilton'.
H. Knox,
W.m. Bradford,
Edm. Randolph.

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

HAMILTON TO A COMMITTEE OF COXGKESS.

April 1, 1704.

Iii the course of the present examination, respecting the
point of authority under which any portion of the moneys bor-
rowed abroad had been drawn into the United States, the Secre-
tary of the Treasury did make the following question :

"I ask the Committee appointed to inquire into the state of
the Treasury Department, whether they expect from the Secretary
of the Treasury the production of any authorities from the Presi-
dent to him, in reference to the loans made under the acts of the
4th and 12th of August, 1790, except such as regard merely the
making of said loans, and the application and disbursement of
such part of the proceeds of those loans, as were to be disbursed
in foreign countries.

"I object to the being required to produce any other autho-
rities than those excepted, for the following reasons, viz. :

" 1st. Because it results, from the constitution of the Treasury
Department, that all receipts and expenditures of public money,
within the United States, must pass through that department,
under the sanction of warrants from the Secretary, countersigned
by the Comptroller, and registered by the Eegister ; consequently,
whenever a loan is made, either abroad or at home, on account
of the United States, destined for disbursement within the United
States, it becomes, ex officio, the province of the Treasury De-
partment to draw the proceeds of such loan into the Treasury,
and to disburse from thence, according to law.

" 2d. Because, when it once appears that the President has
constituted the head of a department his agent, for any general
purpose, intrusted to him by law, all intermediate authorities
from the President to the agent, being conformable with law, are
to be presumed. The proper inquiry for the legislature must be,
whether the laws have been duly executed or not ; if they have
been duly executed, the question of sufficiency or deficiency of
authority, from the President to his agent, must be, to the legis-
lature, immaterial and irrelevant. That question must, then, be

^t. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 513

a matter purely between the President and the agent, not exami-
nable by the legislature, without interfering with the province of
the Chief Magistrate, to whom alone the responsibility is.

" All authority from the President to do any thing not war-
ranted by the laws of the 4th and 12 th of August, is disclaimed.
A complete responsibility for the due and faithful execution of
those laws, is admitted to rest on the head of the department.
He claims no protection from any instruction or authority of the
President, for any thing which may have been irregular or
wrong, but he respectfully conceives that the competency of his
authority from the President to do, what being done, is con-
formable with the laws, is not, under the circumstances of the
case, a proper object of legislative inquiry."

Upon the consideration of which question, the Committee
came to the following resolution :

" Eesolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be requested
to state to the Committee, by what authority any portion of the
moneys borrowed abroad have been drawn to the United
States."

In consequence of which resolution the Secretary of the
Treasury laid before the Committee a paper in the following
words :

HAMILTON TO A COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.

April 1, 1794.
Principles and course of proceeding with regard to the disposition of
the moneys borrowed abroad, by virtue of the acts of the 4th and
12th of Av gust, 1790, as to the point of authority.

It was conceived by the Secretary of the Treasury to be a
clear principle, resulting from the spirit of the act constituting
the Treasury Department, and from the several provisions of
that act, collectively considered, that all public moneys once ob-
tained, and destined for disbursement within the United States,
D 33

514 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

came, of course, under the direction of the officers of that de-
partment, according to their respective functions, and that no
special authority extrinsic to the department was, in strictness,
necessary to enable them to draw money, from whatever source
originating, into the Treasury, or to issue them thence for the
purposes designated by law.

It was also conceived by him to be, though a less clear prin-
ciple, one most agreeable to the true spirit of the constitution of
the department, as well as essential to the preservation of order
and due accountability in the money transactions of the country,
that even moneys procured abroad, and to be disbursed abroad,
were, as to their application, to be under the direction of the
same department.

Under the influence of these principles, thus entertained with
different degrees of assurance (the President having determined
to place the procuring of the loans under the direction of the
Secretary of the Treasury), the following course of proceeding
was pursued :

The Secretary obtained from the President, in the first place,
a general commission to him to make the loans authorized by
the two acts of the 4th and 12th of August. A copy of this
commission was communicated to the House of Eepresentatives,
in the last session. No. 1 is dated the 28th of August.

He also obtained from the President an instruction, dated
same day, to guide and justify him — 1st, with regard to the per-
son to be employed in Europe in negotiating the loans ; 2d, with
regard to the extent to which the loans under the first act, and
payments on account of the foreign debt, should be carried, at
all events, exclusively of the consideration of the advantageous-
ness of the terms of the loans.

Nevertheless, from the special connection of the President
with the subject, owing to the authority to borrow being imme-
diately vested in him ; from the circumstance of the existence of
a particular discretion to be exercised by the President as to an-
ticipated payments of the foreign debt ; and from the official
relation of each head of a department to the President; the
Secretary of the Treasury considered it as his duty, from time to

JEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 515

time, to submit the disposition of each loan to the consideration
of the President, with his reasons for such disposition, and to
obtain the sanction of the President previous to carrying it into
effect, which was always had.

The communications to the President and his sanctions were
for the most part verbal. Two exceptions appear, from letters
(herewith shown) of the Secretary to the President, of the 10th
and 14th of April, and 22d of September, 1791, and from the
President to him of the 7th of May, 1791, relating to a case of
absence from the seat of government. These letters are evidence
of the course and spirit of proceeding.

It is to be understood that the sanctions of the President were
always bottomed upon the representations of the Secretarj^, and
were always expressly or tacitly qualified with this condition,
that " whatever was to be done, was to be agreeable to the laws."

Whereupon the Committee came to the following resolution :
"Kesolved, That it would be satisfactory to the Committee,
that the papers submitted to them April 1st, 1794, by the Secre-
tary of the Treasury, respecting the point of authority under
which moneys borrowed abroad have been drawn to the United
States, should be presented to the President of the United States ;
and that the Secretary should obtain from him concerning the
same, such declaration as the President may think proper to
make."

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Tuesday. April 8, 1794.

Dear Sir:

Annexed to your statement of " Principles and course of
Proceedings," I have given the certificate required.
I am yours always,

Geo. Washington.

516 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.M.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 8th, 1794.

Sir:

I cannot charge my memory with all the particulars, which
have passed between us, relative to the disposition of the money
borrowed. Your letters, however, and my answer, which you
refer to in the foregoing statement, and lately reminded me of,
speak for themselves, and stand in need of no explanation.

As to verbal communications, I am satisfied that many were
made by you to me on this subject ; and, from my general recol-
lection of the course of proceedings, I do not doubt that it was
substantially as you have stated it in the annexed paper, and
that I have approved of the measures which you from time to
time proposed to me for disposing of the loans, upon the con-
dition, that what was to be done by you should be agreeable to
the laws.

I am, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, April 9th, 1794.

Sir:

I have analyzed the declaration which you have been pleased
to make upon the copy of the paper of the first instant, delivered
by me to the Committee of Inquiry into the state of the Treasury
Department, and find, with regret, that the terms used are such
as will enable those who are disposed to construe every thing to
my disadvantage, to affirm, " that the declaration of the Presi-
dent has entirely waived the A main point, and does not even
manifest an opinion that the representation of the Secretary of
the Treasury is well founded."

To this it would be added, that the reserve of the President
is a proof that he does not think that representation true, else his

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS, 517

justice would have led him to rescue the officer concerned even
from suspicion on the point.

That this will be the interpretation put upon your declara-
tion, I have no doubt; and, in justice to myself, I cannot for-
bear to make this impression known to you, and to bring the
declaration under your revision.

I am the more certain that this construction will be put upon
the fact, from what has heretofore taken place. In the course of
the discussion of the last session, an argument of this kind was,
in private, urged against me : "If Mr. Hamilton had really
acted by the authority of the President, or in due communica-
tion with him, would not the President take some method,
either directly to Mr. Madison, or through Mr. Jefferson or Mr.
Kandolph, to make known to him that this ground of accusation
did not exist ? His not doing it, which -may be inferred from
Mr. Madison's urging the point, is a proof that there was no co-
operation on his part."

In addition to this, I have learnt, from an authentic source,
that a particular gentleman, supposed to possess good opportuni-
ties of information, has intimated, in a manner to induce a be-
lief of its having come from you, that it never was your inten-
tion that any of the loans which were made should have had
reference to the act making provision for the reduction of the
public debt, and that you never knew any thing of the opera-
tion while it was going on.

Under all that has happened, sir, I cannot help entertaining,
and frankly expressing to you, an apprehension, that false and
insidious men, whom you may one day understand, taking the
advantage of the want of recollection, which is natural when the
mind is habitually occupied with a variety of important objects,
have found means, by artful suggestions, to infuse doubts and
distrusts very injurious to me.

My consciousness of what has been the real tenor of my con-
duct, and my conviction of the fairness and rectitude of your
mind, compel me to this conclusion.

Upon this, as upon every other occasion, my desire is to en-
counter, directly and without detour, whatever embarrassment

518 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M?. 37.

may stand in my way. If contrary to what I understood from
Mr. Lear, during the discussion of the matter in Congress, and
inferred from the late conversations with you, the affair does not
stand icell in your mind, I request the opportunity of a full
and free conference on the subject, to recapitulate and go over
all the circumstances which have occurred, in the hope of recall-
ing to your memory what may have escaped it, and with a wish
to abide the result in an explicit form ; that is, by a declaration
which shall render the main fact unambiguous, or shall record
the doubt.

As, on the one hand, I expect what is due to the situation,
so, on the other, I seek no palliation of delinquency, no cover for
any defect of conduct.

The situation is indeed an unpleasant one. Having con-
ducted an important piece of public business in a spirit of confi-
dence ; dictated by an unqualified reliance, on the one hand,
upon the rectitude, candor, and delicacy of the person under
whom I was acting ; on the other, by a persuasion that the ex-
perience of years had secured to me a reciprocal sentiment
(whatever imperfections it may have otherwise discovered) ; and
by the belief, likewise, that however particular instances might
be forgotten, the general course of proceeding in so important
an affair could not but be remembered ; I did not look for a dif-
ficulty like that which now seems to press me. Knowing, too,
that there existed in my written communications with the Presi-
dent (not only those which have been specified, but others), so
many direct and indirect indications of what was truly the
course pursued, I still less apprehended a difficulty of that na-
ture when the occasion for explanation should occur.

Not seeking to escape responsibility for any improper execu-
tion of the laws — if any has happened — I do not imagine that
want of immediate authority from the President to do what they
would justify, would be suffered to remain (the appeal being
made to him) a topic of objection to my conduct.

In the freedom of these remarks, I flatter myself, sir, that
you will perceive nothing but that just sensibility which a man
of honor, who thinks his veracity exposed to question, ought to

Mt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 519

feel ; and that you will be persuaded I continue yet to retain,
undiminished, all that respect which a long established con-
viction of the existence of an upright and virtuous character
ought to inspire. «

With this sentiment, I have the honor to remain, sir, your
most obedient and humble servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, April 14th, 1794.

Sir:

The present is beyond question a great, a difficult and a

perilous crisis in the affairs of this country In such a

crisis it is the duty of every man, according to situation, to con-
tribute all in his power towards preventing evil and producing
good. This consideration will, I trust, be a sufficient apology
for the liberty I am about to take of submitting, without an offi-
cial call, the ideas which occupy my mind concerning the actual
posture of our public affairs. It cannot but be of great impor-
tance that the Chief Magistrate should be informed of the real
state of things, and it is not easy for him to have this information
but through those principal officers who have most frequent
access to him. Hence an obligation on their part to communi-
cate information on occasions like the present.

A course of accurate observation has impressed on my mind

a full conviction, that there exist in our councils three

considerable parties, — one, decided for preserving peace by every
effort which shall any way consist with the ultimate mainte-
nance of the national honor and rights, and disposed to cultivate

with all nations a friendly understanding another, decided

for war, and resolved to bring it about by every expedient which

shall not too directly violate the public opinion a third,

not absolutely desirous of war, but solicitous at all events to

520 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 37.

excite and keep alive irritation and ill-humor between the United
States and Great Britain, not unwilling in the pursuit of this
object to expose the peace of the country to imminent hazards.

The views of the first party in respect to the questions between
Great Britain and us, favor the following course of conduct : to
take effectual measures of military preparation, creating, in
earnest, force and revenue — to vest the President with important
powers respecting navigation and commerce for ulterior contin-
gencies— to endeavor by another effort of negotiation, confided
to hands able to manage it, and friendly to the object, to obtain
reparation for the wrongs we suffer, and a demarkation of a line
of conduct to govern in future — to avoid till the issue of that
experiment all measures of a nature to occasion a conflict be-
tween the motives which might dispose the British Government
to do us the justice to which we are entitled and the sense of its
own dignity. If that experiment fails, then and not till then to
resort to reprisals and war.

The views of the second party, in respect to the same ques-
tions, favor the following course of conduct : to say and to do every
thing which can have a tendency to stir up the passions of the
people and beget a disposition favorable to war — to make use of
the inflammation which is excited in the community for the pur-
poses of carrying through measures calculated to disgust Great
Britain, and to render an accommodation impracticable without
humiliation to her, which they do not believe will be submitted
to ; in fine, to provoke and bring on war by indirect means, with-
out declaring it or even avowing the intention ; because they
know the public mind is not yet prepared for such an extremity,
and they fear to encounter the direct responsibility of being the
authors of a war.

The views of the third party lead them to favor the measures
of the second — but without a perfect coincidence in the result.
They weakly hope that they may hector and vapor with success
— that the pride of Great Britain will yield to her interest, and
that they may accomplish the object of perpetuating animosity
between the two countries without involving war. There are
some characters, not numerous, who do not belong to either oi

JBt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 521

these classes, but who fluctuate between them as, in the conflict
between Eeason and Passion, the one or the other prevails.

It may seem difficult to admit, in the situation of this country,
that there are parties of the description of the two last ; men
who can either systematically meditate war or can be willing to
risk it otherwise than by the use of means which they deem
necessary to insure reparation for the injuries we experience.

But a due attention to the course of the human passions, as
recorded in history, and exemplified by daily occurrences, is
sufficient to obviate all difficulty on this head.

Wars oftener proceed from angry and perverse passions than
from cool calculations of interest. This position is admitted
without difficulty when we are judging of the hostile appearances
in the measures of Great Britain towards this country. What
reason can there be wiry it should not be as good a test of similar
appearances on our part ? As men it is equally applicable to us,
— and the symptoms are strong of our being readily enough
worked up into a degree of rage and frenzy, which goes very far
towards silencing the voice of reason and interest.

Those who compose the parties whose measures have a war
aspect, are under the influence of some of the strongest passions
that can actuate human conduct. They unite from habitual feel-
ing in an implacable hatred to Great Britain and a warm attach-
ment to France. Their animosity against the former is inflamed
by the most violent resentment for recent and unprovoked inju-
ries— in many instances by personal loss and suffering of inti-
mate friends and connections. Their sympathy with the latter is
increased by the idea of her being engaged in defending the
cause of liberty against a combination of despots, who meditate
nothing less than the destruction of it throughout the world.
In hostility with Britain, they seek the gratification of revenge
upon a detested enemy with that of serving a favorite friend, and
in this the cause of liberty. They anticipate, also, what is, in their
estimation, a great political good, a more complete and perma-
nent alienation from Great Britain, and a more close approxima-
tion to France. Those even of them who do not wish the
extremity of war, consider it as a less evil than a thorough and

522 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

sincere accommodation with Great Britain, and are willing to
risk the former rather than lose an opportunity so favorable as
the present to extend and rivet the springs of ill-will against that
nation.

However necessary it is to veil this policy in public, in private
there are not much pains taken to disguise it. Some gentlemen
do not scruple to say that pacification is and ought to be out of
the question.

What has been heretofore said relates only to persons in pub-
lic character. If we extend our view from these to the commu-
nity at large, we shall there also find a considerable diversity of
opinion — partisans of patience, negotiation and peace, if possible,
and partisans of war. There is no doubt much of irritation now
afloat; many advocates for measures tending to produce war.
But it would be a great mistake to infer from these appearances
that the prevailing sentiment of the country is for war — or that
there would be either a willing acquiescence or a zealous co-
operation in it if the proceedings of the government should not
be such as to render it manifest, beyond question, that war was
inevitable but by an absolute sacrifice of the rights and interests
of the nation — that the race of prudence was completely run,
and that nothing was done to invite hostility, or left undone to
avoid it.

It is to my mind unequivocal that the great mass of opinion
in the Eastern States and in the State of New- York is against
war, if it can be avoided, without absolute dishonor or the ulti-
mate sacrifice of essential rights and interests; — and I verily
believe that the same sentiment is the radical one throughout the
United States, some of the towns, perhaps, excepted ; where even
it is much to be doubted whether there would not be a minority
for the affirmative if the naked question was presented of war,
or of measures which should be acknowledged to have a tendency
to promote or produce it.

The natural inference from such a state of the public mind
is, that if measures are adopted with the disapprobation and dis-
sent of a large and enlightened minority of Congress, which in
the event should appear to have been obstacles to a peaceable

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 523

adjustment of our differences with Great Britain, there would be,
under the pressure of the evils produced by them, a deep and
extensive dissatisfaction with the conduct of the government — a v
loss of confidence in it, and an impatience under the measures,
which war would render unavoidable.

Prosperous as is truly the situation of the country ; great as
would be the evils of war to it, it would hardly seem to admit
of a doubt, that no chance for preserving peace ought to be lost
or diminished, in compliance either with resentment, or the spec-
ulative ideas which are the arguments for a hostile course of
conduct.

At no moment were the indications of a pltfn on the part of
Great Britain to go to war with us, sufficiently decisive to pre-
elude the hope of averting it by a negotiation conducted with
prudent energy, and seconded by such military preparations as
should be demonstrative of a resolution eventually to vindicate
our rights. The revocation of the instructions of the 6th of No-
vember, even with the relaxation of some pretensions which
Great Britain has in former wars maintained against neutral
powers, is full evidence that if the system was before for war, it
was then changed. The events which have taken place in Eu-
rope are of a nature to render it probable that such a system
will not be revived, and that by prudent management we may
still escape a calamity which we have the strongest motives, in-
ternal, as well as external, to shun.

I express myself thus, because it is certainly not an idle ap-
prehension, that the example of France, (whose excesses are
with too many an object of apology, if not of justification,) may
be found to have unhinged the orderly principles of the people
of this country ; and that war, by putting in motion all the tur-
bulent passions, and promoting a further assimilation of our
principles with those of France, may prove to be the threshold
ol disorganization and anarchy.

The late successes of France have produced in this country
conclusions much too sanguine with regard to the event of the
contest. They no doubt afford a high probability of her being
able, eventually, to defend herself, especially under a form of

524 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

administration of such unexampled vigor as that by which she
has of late managed her affairs.

But there will be nothing wonderful in a total reverse of for-
tune during the ensuing campaign. Human nature must be an
absolutely different thing in France from what it has hitherto
shown itself to be throughout the globe, and in all ages, if there
do not exist in a large proportion of the French nation, germs of
the profoundest discontent, ready to burst into vegetation the
moment there should appear an efficacious prospect of protection
and shade from the progress of the invading armies. And if
having possessed themselves of some of the keys of France, the
principle of the commencing campaign should be different from
that of the past, active field operations succeeding to the wasteful
and dilatory process of sieges, who can say that victory may not
so far crown the enterprises of the coalesced powers, as to open
the way to an internal explosion which may prove fatal to the
republic? 'Tis now evident that another vigorous campaign
will be essayed by the allies. The result is, and must be, incaU
culable.

To you, sir, it is unnecessary to urge the extreme precarious-
ness of the events of war. The inference to be drawn is too
manifest to escape your penetration. This country ought not to
set itself afloat upon an ocean so fluctuating, so dangerous, and
so uncertain, but in a case of absolute necessity.

That necessity is certainly not yet apparent. The circum-
stances which have been noticed with regard to the recent change
of conduct on the part of Great Britain, authorize a strong hope
that a negotiation, conducted with ability and moderation, and
supported at home by demonstrations of vigor and seriousness,
would obviate those causes of collision which are the most ur-
gent— might even terminate others, which have so long fostered
dissatisfaction and enmity. There is room to suppose that the
moment is peculiarly favorable to such an attempt. On this
point there are symptoms of a common sentiment between the
advocates and the opposers of an unembarrassed attempt to nego-
tiate, the former desiring it from the confidence they have in its
probable success, the latter, from the same cause, endeavoring either

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 525

to prevent its going on under right auspices, or to clog it with impedi-
ments which will frustrate its effect.

All ostensibly agree, that one more experiment of negotiation
ought to precede actual war ; but there is this serious difference
in the practice. The sincere friends of peace and accommoda-
tion are for leaving things in a state which will enable Great
Britain, without abandoning self-respect, to do us the justice we
seek. The others are for placing things upon a footing which
would involve the disgrace or disrepute of having receded
through intimidation.

This last scheme indubitably ends in war. The folly is too
great to be seriously entertained by the discerning part of those
who affect to believe the position — that Great Britain, fortified
by the alliances of the greatest part of Europe, will submit to
our demands, urged with the face of coercion, and preceded by
acts of reprisal. She cannot do it without renouncing her pride
and her dignity, without losing her consequence and weight in
the scale of nations ; and, consequently, it is morally certain that
she will not do it. A proper estimate of the operation of the
human passions, must satisfy us that she would be less disposed
to receive the law from us than from any other nation — a people
recently become a nation, not long since one of her dependen-
cies, and as yet if a Hercules, a Hercules in the cradle.

AVhen one nation inflicts injuries upon another, which are
causes of war, if this other means to negotiate before it goes to
war, the usual and received course is to prepare for war, and
proceed to negotiation, avoiding reprisals till the issue of the
negotiation. This course is recommended by all enlightened
writers on the laws of nations, as the course of moderation, pro-
priety, and wisdom; and it is that commonly pursued, except
where there is a disposition to go to war, or a commanding supe-
riority of power.

Preparation for war, in such cases, contains in it nothing
offensive. It is a mere precaution for Belf-defence, under circum-
stances which endanger tin.' breaking out of war. It gives rise to
no point of honor which can be a bar to equitable and amicable
negotiation. But acts of reprisal speak a contrary effect — they

526 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

change negotiation into peremptory demand, and they brandish
a rod over the party on whom the demand is made. He must be
humble indeed, if he comply with the demand to avoid the
stripe.

Such are the propositions which have lately appeared in the
House of Eepresentatives, for the sequestration or arrestation of
British debts — for the cutting off all intercourse with Great Bri-
fcain, till she shall do certain specific things. If such proposi-
tions pass, they can only be regarded as provocatives to a decla-
ration of war by Great Britain.

The sequestration of debts is treated by all writers as one of
the highest species of reprisal. It is, moreover, contrary to the
most approved practice of the present century ; to what may be
safely pronounced to be the modern rule of the law of nations ; to
what is so plainly dictated by original principles of justice and
good faith, that nothing but the barbarism of times in which war
was the principal business of man could ever have tolerated an op-
posite practice ; to the manifest interest of a people situated like
that of the United States, which, having a vast fund of materials
for improvement in various ways, ought to invite into the channels
of their industry the capital of Europe, by giving to it inviolable
security — which, giving little facility to extensive revenue from
taxation, ought, for its own safety in war, to cherish its credit by
a religious observance of the rules of credit in all their branches.

The proposition for cutting of! all intercourse with Great
Britain has not yet sufficiently developed itself to enable us to
pronounce what it truly is. It may be so extensive in its pro-
visions as even to include in fact, though not in form, sequestra-
tion, by rendering remittances penal or impracticable. Indeed,
it can scarcely avoid so far interfering with the payment of
debts already contracted, as in a great degree to amount to a vir-
tual sequestration. But, however this may be, being adopted for
the express purpose of retaliating or punishing injuries, to continue
until those injuries are redressed, it is in the spirit of a reprisal.
Its principle is avowedly coercion — a principle directly opposite to
that of negotiation, which supposes an appeal to the reason and
justice of the party. Caustic and stimulant in the highest de-

Mr. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 527

gree, it cannot fail to have a correspondent effect upon the minds
of those against whom it is directed. It cannot fail to be viewed
as originating in motives of the most hostile and overbearing
kind — to stir up all the feelings of pride and resentment in the
nation as well as in the cabinet ; and, consequently, to render ne-
gotiation abortive.

It will be wonderful if the immediate effect of either of these
measures be not either war or the seizure of our vessels wherever
they are found, on the ground of keeping them as hostages for
the debts due to the British merchants, and on the additional
ground of the measures themselves being either acts of hostility
or evidence of a disposition to hostility.

The interpretation will naturally be, that our views, originally
pacific, have changed with the change in the affairs of France,
and are now bent towards war.

The measures in question, besides the objection to them re-
sulting from their tendency to produce war, are condemned by a
comprehensive and enlightened view of their operation in other
respects. They cannot but have a malignant influence upon our
public and mercantile credit. They will be regarded abroad as
violent and precipitate. It will be said, there is no reliance to
be placed on the steadiness or solidity of concerns with this
people. Every gust that arises on the political sky is the signal
for measures tending to destroy their ability to pay, or to ob-
struct the course of payment. Instead of a people pacific, for-
bearing, moderate, and of rigid probity, we see in them a people
turbulent, hasty, intemperate, and loose, sporting with their in-
dividual obligations, and disturbing the general course of their
affairs with levity and inconsiderateness.

Such will indubitably be the comment upon our conduct.
The favorable impressions now entertained of the character of
our government and nation will infallibly be reversed.

The cutting off of intercourse with Great Britain, to distress her
seriously, must extend to the prohibition of all her commodities,
indirectly as well as directly; else it will have no other operation
than to transfer the trade between the two countries to the hands
of foreigners, to our disadvantage more than to that of Great
Britain.

528 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

If it extends to the total prohibition of her commodities, how-
ever brought, it deprives us of a supply, for which no substitute
can be found elsewhere — a supply necessary to us in peace, and
more necessary to us if we are to go to war. It gives a sudden
and violent blow to our revenue, which cannot easily, if at all, be
repaired from other resources. It will give so great an interrup-
tion to commerce as may very possibly interfere with the pay-
ment of the duties which have heretofore accrued, and bring the
Treasury to an absolute stoppage of payment — an event which
would cut up credit by the roots.

The consequences of so great and so sudden a disturbance of
our trade, which must affect our exports as well as our imports,
cannot be calculated. An excessive rise in the price of foreign
commodities — a proportionable decrease of price and demand of
our own commodities — the derangement of our revenue and
credit — these circumstances united may occasion the most dan-
gerous dissatisfactions and disorders in the community, and may
drive the government to a disgraceful retreat, independent of
foreign causes.

To adopt the measure in terrorem, and postpone its operation,
will be scarcely a mitigation of the evil. The expectation of it
will, as to our imports, have the effect of the realhy, since we
must obtain what Ave want chiefly upon credit. Our supply and
our revenue, therefore, will suffer nearly as much as if there was
an immediate interrruption.

The effect with regard to our peace will be the same. The
principle being menace and coercion, will equally recommend
resistance to the policy as well as the pride of the other party.
'Tis only to consult our own hearts to be convinced that nations,
like individuals, revolt at the idea of being guided by external
compulsion. They will, at least, only yield to that idea after re-
sistance has been fruitlessly tried in all its forms.

'Tis as great an error for a nation to overrate as to underrate
itself. Presumption is as great a fault as timidity. 'Tis our
error to overrate ourselves and underrate Great Britain ; we for-
get how little we can annoy, how much we may be annoyed.

"Tis enough for us, situated as we are, to be resolved to vindi-

Mt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 529

cate our honor and rights in the last extremity. To precipitate
a great conflict of any sort is utterly unsuited to our condition, to
our strength, or to our resources. This is a truth to be well
weighed by every wise and dispassionate man, as the rule of
public action.

There are two ideas of immense consequence to us in the
event of war : the disunion of our enemies — the perfect union of
our own citizens. Justice and moderation, united with firmness,
are the means to secure both these advantages ; injustice or in-
temperance will lose both.

Unanimity among ourselves, which is the most important of
the two ideas, can only be secured by its being manifest, if war
ensues, that it was inevitable by another course of conduct.
This cannot and will not be the case, if measures so intemperate
as those which are meditated take place. The inference will be,
that the war was brought on by the design of some and the rash-
ness of others. This inference will be universal in the Northern
States ; and to you, sir, I need not urge the importance of those
States in war.

Want of unanimity will naturally tend to render the opera-
tions of war feeble and heavy, to destroy both effort and perse-
verance. War, undertaken under such auspices, can scarcely
end in any thing better than an inglorious and disadvantageous
peace. What worse it may produce is beyond the reach of hu-
man foresight.

The foregoing observations are designed to convey to the
mind of the President information of the true state of things at
the present juncture, and to present to his consideration the
general reasons which have occurred to me against the course of
proceeding which appears to be favored by a majority of the
House of Representatives.

My solicitude for the public interest, according to the view I
have of it, and my real respect and regard for him to whom I
address myself, lead me to subjoin some reflections of a more deli-
cate nature.

The crisis is such a one as involves the highest responsibility
on the part of every one who may have to act a part in it. It is
D 34

530 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 37.

one in which every man will be understood to be bound to act
according to his judgment without concession to the ideas of
others. The President, who has by the Constitution a right to
object to laws, which he deems contrary to the public interest,
will be considered as under an indispensable obligation to exer-
cise that right against any measure, relating to so vast a point as
that of the peace of the country, which shall not accord with his
opinion. The consideration of its having been adopted by both
houses of Congress and of respect for their opinions, will have
no weight in such a case as a reason for forbearing to exercise the
right of objection. The consequence is, that the not objecting
will be deemed conclusive evidence of approbation, and will im-
plicate the President in all the consequences of the measure.

In such a position of things, it is therefore of the utmost im-
portance to him, as well as to the community, that he should
trace out in his own mind such a plan as he thinks it would be
eligible to pursue, and should endeavor, by proper and consti-
tutional means, to give the deliberations of Congress a direction
towards that plan.

Else he runs the risk of being reduced to the dilemma either
of assenting to measures, which he may not approve, with a full
responsibility for consequences, or of objecting to measures
which have already received the sanction of the two houses of
Congress, with the responsibility of having resisted and probably
prevented what they meditated. Neither of these alternatives is
a desirable one.

It seems advisable, then, that the President should come to a
conclusion whether the plan ought to be preparation for war,
and negotiation unincumbered by measures which forbid the
expectation of success, or immediate measures of a coercive
tendency to be accompanied with the ceremony of a demand of
redress. For I believe there is no middle plan between those
two courses.

If the former appears to him to be the true policy of the
country, I submit it as my conviction, that it is urgent for him to
demonstrate that opinion as a preventive of wrong measures and
future embarrassment

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 531

The mode of doing it which occurs is this : to nominate a
person who will have the confidence of those who think peace
still within our reach, and who may be thought qualified for the
mission as envoy extraordinary to Great Britain ; to announce
this to the one as well as the other house of Congress, with an
observation that it is done with an intention to make a solemn
appeal to the justice and good sense of the British government,
to avoid if possible an ulterior rupture, and adjust the causes of
misunderstanding between the two countries, and with an earn-
est recommendation that vigorous and effectual measures may be
adopted to he prepared for war, should it become inevitable, abstaining
for the present from measures which may be contrary to the spirit of
an attempt to adjust existing differences by negotiation.

Knowing as I do, sir, that I am among the persons who have
been in your contemplation to be employed in the capacity I
have mentioned, I should not have taken the present step, had
I not been resolved at the same time to advise you with decision
to drop me from the consideration, and to fix upon another
character. I am not unapprised of what has been the bias of
your opinion on the subject. I am well aware of all the collat-
eral obstacles which exist ; and I assure you in the utmost sin-
cerity, that I shall be completely and entirely satisfied with the
election of another.

I beg leave to add, that of the persons whom you would
deem free from any constitutional objections, Mr. Jay is the only
man in whose qualifications for success there would be thorough
confidence, and him whom alone it would be advisable to send.
I think the business would have the best chance possible in his
hands, and I flatter myself that his mission would issue in a man-
ner that would produce the most important good to the nation.

Let me add, sir, that those whom I call the sober-minded men
of the country, look up to you with solicitude upon the present
occasion. If happily you should be the instrument of still rescu-
ing the country from the dangers and calamities of war, there is
no part of your life, sir, which will produce to you more real
satisfaction or true glory, than that which shall be distinguished
by this very important service.

532 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.31.

In any event, I cannot doubt, sir, that you will do justice to
the motives which impel me, and that you will see in this pro-
ceeding another proof of my sincere wishes for your honor and
happiness, and anxiety for the public weal.

With the truest respect and attachment,

I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, April 19, 1794.

Sir :

I have received a letter of this date from Mr. Dandridge,
transmitting me two letters to you, one from Governor Mifflin,
the other from John Wanton ; and desiring that if any measure
should be necessary to be taken relative to them, they should be
reported to you.

With regard to the communication from Gov. Mifflin, the
subject of it will be put in a train of examination, and the result
will be communicated.

With regard to that from Mr. Wanton, I had received from
Mr. Thornton, the British Yice-Consul, the inclosed state of the
case of the schooner Bayonne or Boyne, which as you will perceive
has been submitted to the Attorney-General for his opinion;
which is, that the schooner Boyne, under the circumstances stated
in that paper, "is not within the meaning of the resolves of the
legislature laying an embargo, and that she ought to be permit-
ted to proceed on her voyage to New- York."

It was my intention to have sent this morning to the Secre-
tary of War, in order that what was proper further to be done
might be determined, and correspondent instructions given to
the military officer and to the collector.

I believe the opinion of the Attorney-General is right, though
it puts the effect of the embargo in some jeopardy as to vessels
arriving from abroad.

.Et. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 533

Perhaps the most advisable course is, to permit the present
vessel, concerning which there has been some irregularity, to
proceed to the port of her destination without any condition, and
to consider and establish some rule of proceeding, with proper
guards, for future cases.

I retain a copy of Mr. "Wanton's letter, to be sent to the Col-
lector of Newport, as it contains an impeachment of his conduct
that calls for inquiry.

With the highest respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

April 21, 1794.

Sir:

I lately communicated to you a letter from our Commission-
ers at Amsterdam, announcing the undertaking of a loan on ac-
count of the United States for three millions of florins. I sub-
mit the following application of that loan as the one which
appears to me most conducive to the good of the public service :

One million of florins to be apportioned to the payment of
an instalment of an equal sum of the Dutch debt, payable on
the first of June next.

The residue of the loan to be transferred here, for the pur-
pose either of payments to France or purchases of the debt, as
circumstances shall dictate.

I had begun remittances, and made a provisional arrangement
for the purchase of bills of the Bank of the United States,
towards payment of the June instalment. But the loan super-
sedes the necessity of the former, and the bills remitted will
serve to pay interest and premium of the old loans clue and be-
coming due.

With the highest respect, &c.

534 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 22, 1794.

Sir:

Upon examining my letter to you of the 27th Jane, 1793,
and my two powers of the 8th of August, 1793, the one for
making a loan of one million of florins, and the other for mak-
ing a loan of 1,515,98 dollars and 11 cents, I wish to have some
explanation upon the subject of your letter of yesterday's date.
The questions which arise are these : Whether the million of
florins, to be borrowed for the instalment payable to Holland in
June next, be not already appropriated for that purpose ; and
whether the appropriation now proposed of the three millions of
florins will not in some measure be contrary to the appropriation
contained in my power of the 8th of August, 1793 ? For it ap-
pears to me that I have directed the money to be borrowed under
that power to be applied to the purchases of the public debt.

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, April 23d, 1794.

Sir:

When I wrote my letter to you of the 21st instant, I had en-
tirely forgotten the existence of your two instructions of the 8th
of August, owing, probably, to the effect upon my memory of
my sickness, which soon after ensued. I only recollected that
the loan had been authorized by me, pursuant to your special
direction, and I conceived that the subject of its disposition was
wholly open. I regret this circumstance, though no incon-
venience could have ensued.

For I am of opinion, that until the actual investment of the
moneys in purchases, they remain liable to any disposition which
you may think proper, with reference to either of the two acts

iET. 37..] CABINET PAPERS. 535

of the 4th and 12th of August, 1790. The loan has been made
without particular reference to either of them, agreeably to the
intimation in your letter of the 27th of July, namely, that it was
not your purpose, by separate instructions, to prevent the loans
from being carried on without distinction in Holland. Accord-
ingly, no distinction has been made And, as the contract

for the loan will not be specially bottomed upon either of the
acts, I conceive the instructions which have been given may be
varied so as to accommodate the application to the purposes of
both or either.

It is not, however, essential that any alteration should now
be made. If the whole sum is to be drawn for here — as I should
have to remit from hence what remains to complete the million
of florins towards the payment of the next June instalment — I
can fulfil this object, with convenience to the public service, by
drawing upon the fund created by the last loan, .... which will
leave in the Treasury here an equivalent sum applicable to pur-
chases. This will be the same thing, in principle (without the
inconvenience of a double operation), as to draw bills upon that
fund, to be sold here, in order to place the proceeds in the
Treasury, and to purchase other bills to remit to Holland, in
order to place there a fund for the payment of the June in-
stalment.

But if it is your intention, at all events, to attach the proceeds
of this loan to purchases, and to exclude, absolutely, the future
application of any part of it towards payments to France, or
otherwise, on account of the foreign debt, I will thank you to
signify your pleasure accordingly, and then the accounts of the
Treasury will be so regulated as to fix that course of proceeding
irrevocably.

But I think embarrassments may be found to attend this
course, which prevent me from recommending it.

With the highest respect, &c.

536 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 37.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

April 23d, 1794.
Mr. Hamilton presents his respects to the President. ... In
compliance with the desire expressed by him, Mr. H. has made
a memorandum of certain points for consideration, in preparing
instructions for Mr. Jay, which are herewith sent.

Points to he considered in the Instructions to Mr. Jay, Envoy

Extraordinary to Great Britain.

Indemnification for the depredations upon our commerce,
according to a rule to be settled.

The desirable rule is, that which theoretical writers lay
down as the rule of the law of nations ; to wit, that none but
articles by general usage deemed contraband, shall be liable to
confiscation, and that the carrying of such articles shall not in-
fect other parts of a cargo, nor even a vessel carrying them, where
there are no appearances of a design to conceal.

Our treaties contain a good guide as to contraband articles,
which fall under general denomination of instrumenta belli — in-
struments of war.

But if it should be found impracticable to establish this rule,
the following qualifications of it occur to consideration :

1st. Whether provisions (defining what shall be such) may
not be excepted, so far as to render them liable, when going to
an enemy's port not blockaded, to be carried into the port of the
other enemy, and converted to his use, paying the fall value.
A good rule for estimating this value, would be the costs and
charges at the place of exportation, with the addition of per
cent.

2d. Whether colony produce, going directly from the colony
to the mother country, may not be added to the list of contra-
band articles?

Or, in the last resort, whether the rule in this particular, re-
sulting from the instructions of the 8th of January last, may not

^1t. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 537

be admitted ; to wit, that colony produce, going directly from
the colony to any port in Europe, may be confiscated.

This is a principle which, it is understood, has been long ad-
hered to by Great Britain, and finds a sanction in precedents
under the ancient government of France and other maritime
powers.

The indemnification for prizes made by proscribed vessels, of
which an expectation has been given by the President, may be
confirmed by convention.

II. Arrangement with regard to the future :

The basis to be the rule already quoted of the general law of
nations.

But it is probable that the same exceptions which may be in-
sisted upon as to indemnification for the past, will also be insist-
ed upon as to the future.

The idea of a place blockaded or besieged by construction,
which is not actually so, ought to be excluded in either case.

A stipulation against the sale of prizes in our ports, will
probably be insisted upon ; and it is just that it should be
made.

A stipulation, that in case of war with any Indian tribe, the
other party shall furnish no supplies whatever to that tribe, ex-
cept such, and in such quantity only, as it was accustomed to
furnish previous to the war ; and the party at war to have a
right to keep an agent or agents at the posts or settlements of
the other party nearest to such Indians, to ascertain the faithful
execution of this stipulation.

Grounds of adjustment with regard to the late treat}- of peace.

On the part of the British,

1st. Indemnification for our negroes carried away.
2d. Surrender of our posts.

On the part of the United States.

1st. Indemnification for the obstructions to the recovery of
debts not exceeding sterling.

538 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 37.

It may be desired, and would it not be our interest to agree ;
that neither party shall in time of peace keep up any armed force
upon the lakes, nor any fortified places nearer than miles

to the lakes, except small posts for small guards (the number to
be defined) stationed for the security of trading houses ?

Would it not be also our interest to agree to an arrangement
by which each party shall permit to the other, under due pre-
caution and regulations, a free trade with the Indian tribes in-
habiting within the limits of the other ?

Treaty of Commerce.

The statu quo may be taken with the following exceptions :
A privilege to carry to the West India Islands in our ves-
sels of certain burthens, (say not less than sixty tons, nor more
than eighty tons,) all such articles as may now be carried thither
from the United States in British bottoms ; and to bring from
thence directly to the United States all such articles as may now
be brought from thence to the United States in British bottoms.
The privilege of carrying to Great Britain and Ireland, manufac-
tures of the United States similar to those which now are or
hereafter may be allowed to be carried thither by other nations
who stand on the footing of the most favored nation, and upon
terms of admission equally good.

As equivalents.

The extra tonnage and duties on British vessels and goods
imported in British vessels to be done away, and, if desired, a
stipulation to be entered into, that the commodities and manu-
factures of Great Britain and Ireland may be imported into the
United States upon terms equally good with the like commo-
dities and manufactures of any other nation ; and that the duties
upon such of them as now pay ten per cent, ad valorem and up-
wards, shall not be increased ; and that the duties upon such of
them as now pay under ten per cent, ad valorem, shall not be
increased beyond ten per cent.

A treaty on these terms to be made for any term not exceed-
ing years.

^t. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 539

But if such a treaty cannot be made, it deserves considera-
tion, whether a treaty on the basis of the statu quo for a short
term (say five years) may not be advisable, as an expedient for
preserving peace between the two countries.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

April 24, 1794.

Sir:

It appears to me that my instructions of the 8th of August,
1793, have fixed the appropriation of the money to the sinking
fund ; and I have considerable difficulty in being convinced of
my power to change it at this time. However, as I wish to see
the whole subject together, it may be well for you to state to me
what the embarrassments are which you suppose will arise from
confining the money borrowed to the purchase of the public
debt, which I own I am very desirous of seeing effected as fast as
it can be done advantageously for the public.

George Washington.

CABINET OPINION.

April 24, 1794.

The Secretary of State submits to the Secretaries of the Trea-
sury and War, whether the inclosed letters from Mr. Pinckney,
or either of them, shall be sent to Congress.

E. R. is of opinion, that the letter of 28th of January, and not
the other, ought to be sent.

I am of opinion that it is not advisable to send either. That
of the 28th of January, contains no new substantive matter ma-

540 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 31.

terial to the information of Congress, and mere stimulants do not

seem to be necessary.

A. Hamilton.

I do not conceive the propriety of transmitting these letters

to Congress.

H. Knox.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, April 25, 1794.

I beg leave, by way of explanation, to submit the grounds of
my opinion, that the President may vary his instructions of the
8th of August last, in reference to the application of the last
loan obtained in Holland.

A summary of the preceding transactions will serve to throw
light upon the subject.

The President, by his commission of the 28th of August,
1790, gave full power to the Secretary of the Treasury to make
the whole of the two loans contemplated by the acts of the 4th
and the 12 th of August.

When in the beginning of June last, certain considerations
rendered it, in my judgment, expedient to obtain a further loan ;
I concluded to address myself to the President, not for want of
power to proceed in the business ; but to obtain the sanction of
his opinions and instructions, as to the eligibility of the measure.
This will appear from my letter of the third of that month.

After some explanatory communications, I received from the
President his letter of the 27th of July, informing me of the
shape the business had taken in his mind.

On the basis of that letter, I prepared the instructions of the
8th of August, which I considered merely as directions to me,
from the President, in the execution of the general power of the
28th of August, 1790, to be understood in connection with the
letter of the 27th of July.

Mt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 541

The proposition in my report of the 15th of June was, that
the proposed loan should be made upon the authority of both
acts, and the letter of the President just mentioned, precisely
declares he did not intend by separate instructions, to prevent
the loans from being carried on without distinction in Holland.

Accordingly, I sent no new powers for making a further
loan, but merely an additional instruction to make a loan of three
millions of florins, on the basis of the former powers. This
additional instruction, too, made no special reference to either act,
but left the matter to proceed as before without distinction.

The consequence will be that the loan, as in all preceding cases,
will be founded upon both the acts. I send for your inspection
all the contracts heretofore made, as the evidence of what will be
the form of the one not yet forwarded ; all of which expressly
and indiscriminately refer to both the acts.

The inference is, that according to the contract itself, (the
formal obligatory act,) the loan will be placed upon the joint
foundation of the two acts, equally applicable, therefore, to the
purpose of either.

This being the case, it is in my mind a clear proposition, that
the money remains in that state liable to be applied according to
either or both the acts, till one of two things happens ; an actual
investment, or the being carried in the books of the Treasury
specifically to the amount of the particular appropriation.

It appears to me that there are but two circumstances which
can attach irrevocably a similar fund to a particular destination
— either its being so attached in its original creation by the for-
mal obligatory act, (to wit, the creation of the loan,) or its having
received in the Treasury its ultimate form, by being carried to
the account of the particular appropriation. This last, when the
fund in its creation is liable to different destinations, is, as I sup-
pose, the only thing which consummates and fixes the precise
destination. It is the record, so to speak, of the sentence or
direction of the law, ascertaining its application.

If this position be as solid as I believe it to be, it will follow
that all collateral instructions of the President intervening be-
tween his original power to make the loan, and the final applica-

542 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.31.

tion of the loan, are mere directions to the Secretary of the
Treasury, binding on him until they are revoked, but revocable
at pleasure by the President, until they are definitely acted upon
at the Treasury.

This is my view of the subject, for troubling the President
with which, I have no other motive than merely to explain the
ground of an important opinion.

I proceed now to execute the order of the President, contained
in his letter of yesterday.

The embarrassments, which I suppose may possibly arise
from fixing at this time the destination of the fund, are con-
nected with the following considerations :

The laws, except by the means of loans, make no provision
for the payment of any part of the principal of the foreign debt.
Instalments of the principal of the Dutch debt, are falling due
yearly ; the same is the case of the debt to France, deferring the
computed anticipations, as has been heretofore done. Perhaps it
may become the policy of the country, in a short time, to accele-
rate in the latter case.

The state of European affairs forbids a reliance on further
loans there. The actual situation of the United States (and a
fortiori, its possible one), is likely to call for all the aid of domes-
tic loans, which is obtainable for domestic purposes. This
resource, therefore, could not be depended upon as a substitute
for foreign loans for foreign objects ; still less, and for the same
among other reasons, could additional taxation be counted upon.

Our credit, therefore, and in certain events our security in a
degree, may depend on retaining a part of the resource in ques-
tion in a situation to come in aid of both. Our credit entirely,
and our security in a very small degree, are of far greater conse-
quence than the savings to be made by the investment of 1,2 00,-
000 dollars in purchases.

Past experience admonishes to caution. The last loan of a
million of florins, and the present one of three millions, are in
some sort accidents. Antecedent intelligence has in each case
forbidden the expectation of either, as the President will see
from the letters herewith transmitted. Had these not happened,

^t. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 543

and had the moneys originally drawn to this country for pur-
chases been hastily so invested, our credit would in all probability
have been lost ; and things which we believe it of importance to
have been done, would have been impracticable.

A considerable defalcation of revenue this year seems proba-
ble. I feel, in a manner not less interesting to my own reputa-
tion than to the public interest, the advantage of extensive
purchases at the existing juncture — and though I think the
opportunity will not escape, it enters into the plan which I should
approve, to proceed gradually and circumspectly in availing
ourselves of the advantage. But I do not incline either wholly
to tie up the funds at this time, or to precipitate its application to
that single object. I think the matter had better be left open, to
be governed by circumstances as things shall unfold.

It appears to me better, at the hazard of some criticism, to
waive or defer an advantage inferior in magnitude, rather than
incur a probable risk of disadvantage of much greater magnitude.
It appears by the letter from the Commissioners announcing
the loan already communicated to the President, that the receipts
on account of it may be considerably protracted. This is a cir-
cumstance of some weight in the decision.

I submit these considerations with all deference to the deci-
sion of the President, and have the honor to be, &c.

WASHINGTON TO nAMILTOX.

Philadelphia, April 27, 1794.

Sir:

I cannot, under all the circumstances of the case, satisfy my-
self that I am at liberty to go contrary to my last instructions;
and that I have authority to direct the money, which 1 have ex-
pressly directed to be applied to the purchase of the public debt,
to be applied to any other object.

Still, however, 1 am willing that the embarrassments, which

544 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.31.

you consider as probable, shall be communicated to Congress ;
and I have no objection to recommend to them to order the
money to be reserved for the exigencies which you point out.

HAMILTON TO RANDOLPH.

April 27th; 1794.

Dear Sir:

I did not receive the draft of your reply to Mr. Hammond,
on the subject of the instructions of the 8th of June, till bed-
time, last night, nor could I, without a much more considerable
delay than seems to comport with your plan, pretend to enter
into an accurate, sifting scrutiny of this paper.

I must therefore confine myself to a very few remarks.

If my memory serves me right,

I. Your position that the United States alone suffer from the
operation of the above mentioned instructions, is not accurate.
I take it, that provisions on board all neutral vessels going to
any port of France, are liable to the same treatment, except in
the single case of their going to a place blockaded or besieged,
when the rigor of the law of nations is enforced against us by a
confiscation in the first instance ; whereas, in respect to Sweden
and Denmark, it is mitigated by the circumstance of admonition
first, and confiscation afterwards. But even in this particular,
the other neutral powers (Sweden and Denmark excepted) were
left in the same predicament with us, I do not understand,
either, that in fact any ports of France have been deemed block-
aded, so as to produce confiscation, except those actually so. But
not having the instructions before me, I cannot speak with pre-
cision.

IT. You seem to take the position too strictly — that none but
such articles as are peculiar to war are deemed contraband.
Other articles besides these are usually deemed contraband, (as

.Et.37.] cabinet papers. 545

naval stores, which are the general instrument of commerce in
time of peace, as well as a mean of war.)

III. You appeal strongly to the conduct of Great Britain for
a century past, as to the question of provisions being treated as
contraband, or otherwise interdicted from being carried to an
enemy's country. I fear examples may be cited upon you which
will include the point, and more. Is there not a treaty between
Holland and England within a century, which goes much fur-
ther? And you may be, perhaps, pressed by examples from
other countries. I remember a declaration from France to the
States General, (in the time of Louis XIV., as I believe,) which
imposes much more extensive restrictions.

IV. There appears to me too much tartness, in various parts
of the reply. Energy, without asperity, seems best to comport
with the dignity of national language. The force ought to be
more in the idea, than in the expression or manner. The sub-
ject of the paper is the instructions of the 8th of June, not those
of the 6th of November. I suspect from some latter lights,
which I have received, that more of justification for the former
can be found in the practice of nations than I was originally
aware of: and the expression of our sensibility, and the energy
of our resistance ought to be proportioned to the nature of the
case.

On the whole, I submit whether it be not advisable to give
no other reply than a general one, declaring that the doctrines
advanced in support of the instructions of the 8th of June, do
not appear to us well-founded ; but that being among the objects
committed to Mr. Jay's negotiation, a particular reply is forborne.
We are still in the path of negotiation ; let us not plant it with
thorns.

D 35

546 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

Treasury Department, April 28, 1794.

Sir:

I should not advise a present reference to the legislature on
the subject of the application of the loan; as under the circum-
stances of that body at this moment, much debate would pro-
bably ensue, and perhaps no decision.

I am the less induced to advise this step ; as the expedient
itself will be hereafter practicable, if it shall appear to be neces-
sary. It will be some time before the proceeds of the loan will
be realized in the Treasury. "When there, though the appropri-
ation will be fixed to the sinking fund, the actual disbursement
of the moneys may be accelerated or retarded, as may be judged
advisable, according to the development of circumstances.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, April 30, 1794.

Sir:

Inclosed I have the honor to send you the translation of a
letter from Mr. Fauchet, of the 21st instant.

The arrangements of the Treasury have been taken so as to
correspond with the epochs of promised payment ; but I enter-
tain no doubt that I can facilitate an arrangement between the
Bank and Mr. Fauchet, which will accomplish in substance the
object of his letter. I did not think it proper, however, to take
any definitive step without previously placing the subject under
the eye of the President.

The minister is desirous of securing an additional sum for
satisfying two drafts of his predecessor, which he specifies. It
will be within the compass of our means to perform this also ;
but it is not within the limit heretofore prescribed, and it in-

Mt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 547

eludes, besides, considerations which are proper only for the de-
cision of the President.

With perfect respect, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 2d May, 1794.

Sir:

I did not think it worth while to give you the trouble of
writing a formal answer, and therefore I desired the Secretary of
State, who was with me on business, if he had an opportunity,
to ask an explanation of the last clause in your letter of the 30th
ultimo. He has just informed me, that you state that there is
money in your hands applicable to the French debt ; and, upon
the whole, I do not see any objection to your making the pay-
ments to Mr. Fauchet, which you mention in that letter.

I return the passports signed ; and I am so fully impressed
with the necessity of discontinuing the issuing of them without
some restrictions, that I request you will be careful in charging
the collectors not to suffer any of the vessels, for which they are
given, to depart without complying with the conditions expressed
in your letter of this date.

I am, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, May 3d, 1794.

Sir:

Inclosed are copies of a letter of mine of the 25th ultimo, to
the Attorney-General, and of his answer.

Concurring entirely in opinion with that officer, I am led to

548 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

bring the subject under the eye of the President only from the
reflection that a foreign government is concerned in the question ;
and unless I receive a direction to the contrarv, I shall act in
conformity with that opinion. I am urged for a reply in a par-
ticular case, which will go to Europe by the vessel which shall
carry Mr. Jay.

With perfect respect, &e.

WASHINGTON" TO HAMILTON.

(Private.)

May 6th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

In answering your note of yesterday, respecting the request of
Mr. Talleyrand de Perigord, I do not hesitate to declare, that I find
it difficult to hit upon a line of conduct towards characters under
the description that gentleman is emigrants

that is satisfactory to my own mind, or, more properly, that is
free from exception, by avoiding what might seem incivility on
one hand, or unpleasant political consequences on the other.

I can perceive very clearly that the consequence of receiving
these characters into the public rooms will be, driving the French
Minister from them. His visits are much less frequent than they
were, and an occurrence on Tuesday last (which shall be men-
tioned when you call here) has left no doubt as to the cause.

A particular introduction of these characters (out of the
usual course) would, I presume, be more noticed than the recep-
tion of them in public. It has become expedient, therefore, in
my opinion, that principles should be adopted in these cases (not
only for the conduct of the President, but for the executive
officers also) by which evils may be avoided and uniformity
observed.

What these had best be deserves consideration.

My wish is, and it is not less my duty as an officer of the

jEt.37.] cabinet papers. 549

republic, to avoid offence to powers with whom we are in friend-
ship, by conduct towards their proscribed citizens which would
be disagreeable to them ; whilst, at the same time, these emi-
grants, if people of good character, ought to understand that they
will be protected in their persons and property, and will be en-
titled to all the benefits of our laws : for the rest, they must de-
pend upon their own behavior and the civilities of the citizens at
large, who are less restrained by political considerations than the
officers of government must be.

Yours always,

Geo. Washington.

CABINET OPINION.

Philadelphia, May 6. 1794

The Secretary of the Treasury and War Departments being
of opinion that it is constitutional and expedient to empower Mr.
Jay to conclude a treaty of commerce with Great Britain, the
powers are drawn conformably with these ideas.

But as they entertain sentiments different from mine, I have
committed them to paper. Permit me to assign a few of the
most operative reasons in my mind.

1. To permit such a treaty to be signed by Mr. Jay and trans-
mitted for ratification, is to abridge the power of the Senate to
judge of its merits. For according to the rules of good faith, a
treaty, which is stipulated to be ratified, ought to be so, unless
the conduct of the minister be disavowed and punished. 2. If
he be permitted to sign a treaty of commerce, no form of expres-
sion can be devised to be inserted in it which will not be tanta-
mount to a stipulation to ratify, or leave the matter as much at
large, as if he had no such power. 3. Though, I believe, that
the people of the United States desire a proper treaty of com-
merce with Great Britain, and we could enumerate so many arti-
cles as to insure them approbation, yet I am persuaded that no

550 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

man can undertake to say, that they would be contented with one
or two articles only, as is proposed by the gentlemen.

Edmund Kandolph.

PART OF INSTRUCTIONS TO JOHN JAY.

Draft by Hamilton.

1794.

This enumeration presents generally the object which it is
desirable to comprise in a commercial treaty ; not that it is
expected that one can be effected with so great a latitude of
advantages. If to the actual footing of our commerce and
navigation with British European dominions could be added
the privilege of carrying directly from the United States to the
British West India Islands, in our own bottoms generally, or of
certain defined burthens, the articles which, by the act of the
28th of George 3d, chapter 6th, may be carried thither in British
bottoms, and of bringing from those islands directly to the United
States in our bottoms of the like description, the articles which
by the same act may be brought from those islands to the United
States in British bottoms ; this would afford an acceptable basis
of a treaty for a term not exceeding fifteen years ; and it would
be advisable to conclude a treaty upon that basis.

But if a treaty cannot be formed upon a basis as liberal as
this, it is conceived that it would not be expedient to do any
thing more than to digest the articles of such a one as the British
government shall appear willing to accede to : referring it here
for consideration and further instruction previous to a formal
conclusion.

There are other points which it would be interesting to com-
prehend in a treaty, and which it is presumed would not be at-
tended with difficulty. Among these is the admission of our
commodities and manufactures generally, into the European do-

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 551

minions of Great Britain, upon a footing equally good with
those of other foreign countries.*

At present only certain enumerated articles are admitted.
But though this enumeration embraces all the articles which it
is of present material consequence to us to export to those domi-
nions ; yet in process of time an extension of the objects may
become of moment. The fixing of the privileges which we now
enjoy by toleration of the Company's government in the British
East Indies, if any arrangement could be made with the consent
of the Company for that purpose, would also be a valuable in-
gredient.

The foregoing is conformed to the ideas in which the Secre-
tary at War and Attorney-General appeared to concur.

It is my opinion, that if an indemnification for the depreda-
tions committed on our trade, and the execution of those points
of the treaty of peace which remain unexecuted on the part of
Great Britain can be accomplished on satisfactory terms, and it
should appear a necessary mean to this end, to combine a treaty
of commerce for a short term on the footing of the statu quo, the
conclusion of such a treaty would be consistent with the inter-
ests of the United States.

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO JAY.

Philadelphia, May 6, 1794.

My dear Sir :

I send you herewith sundry papers and documents which
contain information that may be not useless to you in your mis-
sion. I had wished to have found leisure to say many things to
you, but my occupations permit me to offer only a few loose ob-
servations.

* This is now the case, though a general impression to the contrary has pre-
vailed. See Proclamation of 1792.

552 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 37.

We are both impressed equally strongly with, the great im-
portance of a right adjustment of all'rnatters of past controversy
and future good understanding with Great Britain. Yet, impor-
tant as this object is, it will be better to do nothing, than to do
any thing that will not stand the test of the severest scrutiny —
and especially, which may be construed into the relinquishment
of a substantial right or interest.

The object of indemnification for the depredations committed
on our trade, in consequence of the instructions of the 6th of
November, is very near the hearts and feelings of the people of
this country. The proceeding was an atrocious one. It would
not answer in this particular to make any arrangement on the
mere appearance of indemnification. If nothing substantial can
be agreed upon, it will be best to content yourself with endeavor-
ing to dispose the British Cabinet, of their own accord, to go as
far as they think fit in reparation, leaving the United States at
full liberty to act afterwards as they deem proper. I am how-
ever still of opinion, that substantial indemnification, on the prin-
ciples of the instruction of January 8th, may in the last resort
be admissible.

What I have said goes upon the idea of the affair of indem-
nification standing alone. If you can effect solid arrangements
with regard to the points unexecuted of the treaty of peace, the
question of indemnification may be managed with less rigor, and
may be still more laxly dealt with, if a truly beneficial treaty
of commerce, embracing privileges in the West India Islands,
can be established. It will be worth the while of the govern-
ment of this country, in such case, to satisfy, itself, its own citi-
zens who have suffered.

The principle of Great Britain is, that a neutral nation ought
not to be permitted to carry on, in time of war, a commerce with
a nation at war, which it could not carry on with that nation in
time of peace. It is not without importance in this question,
that the peace system of France allowed our vessels access to her
islands with a variety of our principal staples, and allowed us to
take from thence some of their products ; and that, by frequent
colonial regulations, this privilege extended to almost all other
articles.

Mt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 553

The great political and commercial considerations which
ought to influence the conduct of Great Britain towards this
country, are familiar to you. They are strengthened by the in-
creasing acquisitions in the West Indies, if these shall be ulti-
mately confirmed, which seems to create an absolute dependence-
on us for supply.

I see not how it can be disputed with you, that this country,
in a commercial sense, is more important to Great Britain than
any other. The articles she takes from us are certainly precious
to her ; important, perhaps essential to the ordinary subsistence
of her islands ; not unimportant to her own subsistence occasion-
ally ; always very important to her manufactures, and of real
consequence to her revenue. As a consumer, the paper will
show that we stand unrivalled. We now consume of her exports
from a million to a million and a half sterling more in value
than any other foreign country ; and while the consumption of
other countries, from obvious causes, is likely to be stationary,
that of this country is increasing, and for a long series of years
will increase rapidly. Our manufactures are no doubt progres-
sive. But our population and means progress so much faster,
that our demand for manufactured supply far outgoes the pro-
gress of our faculty to manufacture. Nor can this cease to be
the case for any calculable period of time.

How unwise then in Great Britain, to suffer such a state of
things to remain exposed to the hazard of constant interruption
and derangement, by not fixing on the basis of a good treaty the
principles on which it should continue.

Among the considerations which ought to lead her to a treaty,
is the obtaining a renunciation of all pretension of right to se-
quester or confiscate debts by way of reprisal, &c, though I have
no doubt this is the modern law of nations. Yet the point of
right cannot be considered so absolutely settled as not to make it
interesting to fix it by treaty.

There is a fact which has escaped observation in this country,
and which, as there has existed too much disposition to convulse
our trade, I have not thought it prudent to bring into view,
which it is interesting you should be apprised of. An act of Par-

554 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

liament (27 Geo. III., chap. 27) allows foreign European vessels,
single decked and not exceeding seventy tons burthen, to carry
to certain ports in the British West Indies, particular articles
therein enumerated, and also to take from thence certain articles.

This consequently puts an end to the question of precedent,
which is so strongly urged against a departure from the British
navigation act in our favor, since it gives the precedent of such
a departure in favor of others, and to our exclusion, a circum-
stance worthy of particular notice.' Our relative situation gives
us a stronger plea for an exception in our favor, than any other
nation can urge. In paper B the idea of a treaty of commerce
on the footing of a statu quo, for a short period (say five years), -
is brought into view. I should understand this as admissible
only in the event of a satisfactory arrangement with regard to
the points unexecuted of the treaty of peace.

But you will discover from your instructions, that the opinion
which has prevailed is, that such a treaty of commerce ought not
to be concluded without previous reference here for further in-
struction. It is desirable, however, to push the British ministry
in this respect to a result, that the extent of their views may be
ascertained.

The navigation of the Mississippi is to us an object of im-
mense consequence. Besides other considerations connected with
it, if the government of the United States can procure and secure
the enjoyment of it to our Western country, it will be an infi-
nitely strong link of union between that country and the Atlan-
tic States. As its preservation will depend on the naval resources
of the Atlantic States, the Western country cannot but feel that
this essential interest depends on its remaining firmly united with
them.

If any thing could be done with Great Britain to increase our
chances for the speedy enjoyment of this right, it would be, in
my judgment, a very valuable ingredient in any arrangement you
could make. Nor is Great Britain without a great interest in the
question, if the arrangement shall give to her a participation in
that navigation, and a treaty of commerce shall admit her ad-
vantageously into this large field of commercial adventure.

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 555

May it not be possible to obtain a guarantee of our right in
this particular from Great Britain, on the condition of mutual
enjoyment and a trade on the same terms as to our Atlantic
ports ?

This is a delicate subject, not well matured in my mind. It
is the more delicate, as there is at this moment a negotiation
pending with Spain, in a position I believe not altogether un-
promising, and ill use might be made of any overture or inti-
mation on the subject. Indeed, in such a posture of the thing,
an eventual arrangement only could be proper. I throw out the
subject merely that you may contemplate it.

With the most fervent wishes for your health, comfort, and
success, I remain, &c. '

TREATY PROJECT.

1794.

An import duty, not exceeding 10 per cent, ad valorem at
the place of exportation, may be laid on manufactures of flax,
hemp, wool, cotton, silk, furs, or of mixtures of either, of gold,
silver, copper, brass, iron, steel, tin, pewter, or of which either of
these metals is the material or chief value — upon flour, salted
beef, pork and fish, and oils of every kind. Bar iron and bar
lead, nails and spikes, steel un wrought, cables, cordage, yarn,
twine and pack-thread, shall not be deemed to be included in the
foregoing enumeration.

An import duty, not exceeding 15 per cent, ad valorem at
the place of exportation, may be laid upon porcelain or china
wares, glass and all manufactures of glass, stone and earthen
wares, and generally upon all manufactures of which stone or
earth is the principal material.

An import duty, not exceeding 50 per cent, ad valorem at
the place of exportation, may be laid on all spirits distilled from
fruits. (This is computed on a gallon of brandy costing 2s.
sterling.)

556 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 37.

An import duty, not exceeding 25 per cent, ad valorem at
the place of exportation may be laid on all wines. Grain of
every kind, peas and other vegetables, live cattle, pitch, tar, and
turpentine, unmanufactured wood, indigo, pot and pearl ash, flax,
hemp, cotton, silk, wool, shall be free from duties both on ex-
portation and importation.

Neither party shall impose any duty on the exportation to
the countries of the other of any raw material whatsoever. This
prohibition shall be deemed to extend to molasses and tobacco.

An export duty, not exceeding 5 per cent, ad valorem at the
place of exportation, may be imposed on all brown and clayed
sugars. All articles not specified or described in the foregoing
clauses, may be rated according to the discretion of each party, both
as to exportation and importation ; but neither party shall lay
any higher duty upon any production or manufacture of the
other imported into any part of the dominions of such party,
than shall be laid upon the like or a similar production or man-
ufacture of any other nation imported into the same or any other
part of the dominions of the said party.

Neither party shall subject the vessels, cargoes or merchants
of the other to any greater charges or burdens within its own
ports, than its own vessels, cargoes and merchants shall be sub-
ject to within the ports of the other, except as to duties by way
of revenue to the government, which may be regulated as either
party pleases within the limits and in conformity to the princi-
ples established in this treaty.

Neither party shall grant any bounties or premiums upon its
own ships, nor upon commodities imported in its own ships,
which shall not extend to the ships nor to commodities imported
in the ships of the other party ; nor upon any commodities what-
soever, with special reference, direct or indirect, to an exporta-
tion to the countries of the other.

Neither party shall prohibit an importation into its own do-
minions or the vent there of any of the productions or manu-
factures of the other.

Neither party shall grant or allow, in consequence of any
former grant, any privilege or exemption in trade to another na-

>Et. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 557

tion, which shall not be, ipso facto, communicated to the other
party. Neither party shall grant to another nation the peculiar
privileges and exemptions stipulated by this treaty, except for
the peculiar considerations upon which they are herein stipu-
lated. Peculiar privileges and exemptions and peculiar con-
siderations shall be deemed to be those only which are contained
in the stipulations of the articles.

Neither party shall reduce any existing duties upon the ships,
productions or manufactures of other countries, except by virtue
of a treaty founded on a reciprocation of equal privileges and
exemptions with those mutually stipulated in the present treaty.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, May 9, 1794.

Sir:

The inclosed letter from Mr. Hammond, of the 6th instant,
was transmitted to me by the Secretary of State, with a request
that after satisfying myself of the step proper to be taken, I
would communicate it to you, and notify your determination to
Mr. Hammond.

The copy herewith sent of a letter from Mr. Eawle, exhibits
the facts which appear in the case ; and reasoning from them, the
conclusion is, that the proceeding complained of is as wanton and
unprovoked, as it is illegal and disorderly. There is no doubt,
that justice to the parties concerned, the maintenance of the laws,
and the discouragement of a practice, which attempts an usurpa-
tion of the functions of government and goes in subversion of
all order, requires that steps should be seriously taken to bring
the offenders to justice.

It is the opinion of the attorney of the district, that the case
is not of the cognizance of the federal judiciary. Hence it be-
comes necessary that it should be referred to the authority of the
State. But it appears to be proper under the special circum-

558 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 31.

stances, that a letter should be written on the part of the Presi-
dent to the Governor of Pennsylvania, communicating the case
and the complaint of the Minister, and calling upon him in
earnest terms to cause the proper legal steps to be taken to bring
the offenders to justice, and thereby give security to the parties
and repress so exceptionable and disorderly a spirit.

With regard to the restoration of the vessel, in the condition
in which she was preceding the trespass, it is not perceived that
the nature of the case requires the extraordinary interposition of
the government for that purpose, and the precedent might be an
embarrassing one. The vessel is one belonging to citizens of the
United States, employed indeed, as is now stated, by a British
Consul, but for the personal accommodation of certain subjects
of Great Britain ; that is, to convey them to their own country,
nor for a purpose properly governmental. It is not perceived
that this situation sufficiently distinguishes her case from the
common one of a vessel suffering injury by the trespass of un-
authorized and lawless individuals, for the redress of which,
including indemnification, the ordinary course of law is compe-
tent. It is not understood that there exists any impediment to
the repossession of the vessel by her commander.

If these ideas are approved by the President, it will remain
to direct the proper communications to the Governor and to the
British Minister.

With perfect respect, &c.

P. S. — I will have the honor of waiting on the President
between twelve and one o'clock, to know if he has any further
commands on the subject.

CABINET OPINION.

May 13th, 1794.
At a meeting of the Heads of the Departments and the At-
torney-General, at the house of the President of the United
States, the subject of affording an auxiliary force to Major-

^Et.37.] CABINET PAPERS. 559

General Wayne, for the purpose of enabling him to make a
vigorous and offensive campaign against the hostile Indians, be-
ing considered, it is advised, that he be authorized to call for
two thousand mounted volunteers from Kentucky, for the period
of four months, if he should judge the measure expedient.

Alexander Hamilton,
H. Knox,
Edm. Eandolph,
Wm. Bradford.

CABINET OPINION.

May 24th; 1794.
Upon consideration of the letter of Governor Mifflin to the
President of the United States, of this date, respecting his draft-
ing one thousand men of the Western militia of this State, for
the purpose of supporting the detachment directed to take pos-
session of Presqu' Isle, he was advised [thus by Knox — the resi-
due Hamilton's], that on mature reflection, the President is of
opinion that it is advisable to suspend for the present the estab-
lishment at Presqu' Isle ; that, independent of certain other
considerations of delicacy and moment, which at no distant day
will be better appreciated, the high probability of an immediate
rupture with the six nations of Indians countenanced by late
information, and increased by the recent murder of their people,
appears to him a solid reason for a temporary suspension.

H. Knox,

Alexander Hamilton,
Edm. Eandolph,
Wm. Bradford.

560 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

May 27th, 1794.

Sir:

In answer to the inquiry you have been pleased to make, I
have the honor to inform you that nothing has been yet done
upon the first section of the act of the 20th of March last, which
appropriates a million of dollars to defray any expense that may
be incurred in relation to the intercourse between the United
States and foreign nations ; authorizing the President, if neces-
sary, to borrow the whole or any part of that sum.

I should, before this, have brought that subject under the
consideration of the President, but for the following reasons :

The act directs that the sum in question shall be paid out of
any moneys which may be in the Treasury, not otherwise appro-
priated, but refers to no time as the criterion of such unappropri-
ated moneys. To understand moneys as synonymous with
funds — which was no doubt meant, as has been the frequent
language of appropriation laws — and to attach the appropriation
upon the funds, which, at the time of passing the act, were not
otherwise appropriated, would materially endanger the adequate-
ness of the funds, for satisfying the appropriations for the War
Department, for the present year, which happens to have re-
ceived the signature of the President one day later.

To act, therefore, upon the law, in this sense, would essen-
tially embarrass that more urgent part of the public service
which respects our military operations, and would no doubt con-
travene the intention of the legislature.

It is well understood that this intention was to postpone the
object in question to a future provision, and accordingly the
Committee of Ways and Means have had a special reference to
it in the new taxes proposed. To construe the law according to
this intention, it is necessary to wait for such further provision ;
for there would be no fund that could be relied upon as the basis
of the loan to be obtained.

When this provision shall be made, it will remain for the

Mt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 561

President to determine whether he will, upon contingency, incur
the expense to the United States of borrowing the entire sum at
once, or whether he will subdivide it, or wait a further develop-
ment of circumstances respecting the probability of a call for the
money before any operation is made.

But though I could not recommend an attempt to borrow
the entire sum, as the business is now situated, yet, if there be
any particular call for a part of it, I presume arrangements may
be adopted which will procure it.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, May 27thr 1794.

Sir:

I some time since communicated an intention to withdraw
from the office I hold, towards the close of the present session.

This I should now put in execution, but for the events which
have lately accumulated, of a nature to render the prospects of
the continuance of our peace in a considerable degree precarious.
I do not perceive that I could voluntarily quit my post at such a
juncture consistently with considerations either of duty or cha-
racter ; and therefore I find myself reluctantly obliged to defer
the offer of my resignation.

But if any circumstances should have taken place in conse-
quence of the intimation of an intention to resign, or should
otherwise exist, which serve to render my continuance in office
in any degree inconvenient or ineligible, I beg leave to assure
3^ou, sir, I should yield to them with all the readiness naturally
inspired by an impatient desire to relinquish a situation in which
even a momentary stay could only be produced by a sense of
duty or reputation.

With the highest respect, I have the honor to be, &c.

D 36

562 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 29th, 1794.

Sir:

The communication which you made to me some time ago,
of your intention to resign, and to which you refer in your letter
of the 27th instant, received yesterday afternoon, I always con-
sidered as depending upon events.

Of course nothing has been done by me to render your con-
tinuance in office inconvenient or ineligible. On the contrary,
I am pleased that you have determined to remain at your post
until the clouds over our affairs, which have come on so fast of
late, shall be dispersed.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, June 4th, 1794.

Sir:

I have the honor to reply to your letter of the 29th of May,
on the subject of the million of dollars granted by the act of the
20th of March last.

As a day or two must determine the question of the fund,
and will probably produce the requisite disposition concerning
it, measures may be taken provisionally on that supposition.
I therefore send herewith the draft of a power for making the
loan, to be executed if approved.

The President, if I understand rightly, by the concluding
part of his letter, is desirous of knowing whether a loan could
not be engaged conditionally, to take effect when the occasion
of employing the money shall occur.

I could not promise myself that this would be found practi-
cable. Neither banks nor individuals would be willing to hold
so large a sum suspended upon a contingency, at least without a
considerable premium for the purpose.

jEt.37.] CABINET PAPERS. 563

The principal question therefore is, shall an absolute loan of
the sum be immediately made? To this there is the strong ob-
jection of its being entirely uncertain when the money will be
wanted for employment.

Perhaps it may be found most advisable to take the following
course, viz. : to lodge in Holland power to make a loan of eight
hundred thousand dollars, to be set on foot when the person who
is charged with the negotiation with Algiers shall direct — he to
be instructed not to cause the loan to be entered upon, till a pro-
bable prospect of treating successfully with Algiers opens — the
power of borrowing the residue, to be reserved for exercise here,
as occasion shall require. This division is proposed upon the
consideration that a part of the sum is and may be necessary for
other purposes than the Algerine business. Mr. Jay's mission
is an example.

This course, while it avoids the incurring of expense which
may be useless, and that for an indeterminate period, puts the
thing in a train to give a more expeditious command of the
money than if it were to wait, after a prospect of negotiation
opens for communication here, and operations from hence.

It is probable, that a premium not exceeding two per cent.,
may obtain an engagement in Holland, to furnish the loan when
wanted, on certain specified terms. Those of the last loan are
the best that can be expected under present circumstances,
namely, 5 per cent, interest, and 5 per cent, charges. This, if
thought advisable, may be attempted.

The permanent removal of Mr. Short to Madrid, indicates the
expediency of constituting his successor in Holland agent for
future loans. An instruction of the President on this head is
requested.

With perfect respect, &c.

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 37.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, June 4th, 1794.

Sm:

Upon the receipt of the communication to you from the Gov-
ernor of Pennsylvania of the 18th of April last, I put that letter
and the papers attending it into the hands of the Commissioner
of Kevenue to examine into the suggestions made, and report
to me concerning them.

The result is contained in a letter from that officer dated the
25th of April, (which hurry of business put out of sight,) and.
which is now communicated only for the information of the Pre-
sident, as the case does not seem to require any particular reply
to the Governor, nor any act upon the subject; and the exhibi-
tion to him of the picture,, which I believe is justly drawn of the
conduct of Mr. Addison and others, would perhaps only excite
useless irritation.

The removal of either of the officers objected to, after the
persecution they have suffered and the perseverance they have
displayed, would be a hazardous step ; and a suspicion is war-
ranted by the conduct of the parties, that it may have been re-
commended with an insidious view. Experience, however, may
better explain in a little time, whether any concession on that
point will be expedient ; in which case, some means of indemni-
fying the officer or officers who should be removed would be de-
manded both by justice and policy.

With perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO JAY.

Philadelphia1 June 4, 1794.

My Dear Sir:

The session of Congress is about to close better than I ex-
pected. All mischievous measures have been prevented, and

^Et. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 565

several good ones have been established. Among these, addi-
tional provisions of revenue and some -of force, are not the least
important.

But as more immediately connected with the objects of your
mission, you will learn with satisfaction, that the bill which had
passed the Senate before you left this, for punishing and pre-
venting practices contrary to neutrality, has become a law, with
only one material alteration, the rejection of the clause which
forbids the selling of prizes. I now consider the Executive and
the Judiciary, as armed with adequate means for repressing the
fitting out of privateers, the taking of commissions, or enlisting in
foreign service, the unauthorized undertaking of military expe-
ditions. &a

At Charleston some considerable irregularities have lately
happened, and means have been taken and are in train, which
will no doubt arrest their progress and correct the evil.

I believe it would be useful for you to collect and communi-
cate exact information with regard to the usage of Europe as to
permitting the sale of prizes in neutral countries. If this should
be clearly against the toleration of the practice, the Executive
might still, perhaps, disembarrass itself.

Men's minds have gotten over the irritation by which they
were some time since possessed, and if Great Britain is disposed
to justice, peace, and conciliation, the two countries may still ar-
rive at a better understanding than has for some time subsisted
between them. Is there not a crisis, which she ought not to suf-
fer to pass, without laying a solid foundation for future harmo-
ny ? I think there is.

Adieu, my dear sir ; not knowing how far any press of busi-
ness on the Department of State might delay its communications,
I thought a few hasty lines would not be unacceptable.

Yours truly, &e.

566 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 7th June, 1794.

Sir:

I approve of the plan proposed in your letter of the 4th in-
stant, namely, that a power for making a loan of eight hundred
thousand dollars be lodged in Holland, to be used at the time
specified in that letter. When the business of Algiers is ar-
ranged, it will be seen whether it be proper to give the premium
of two per cent, for an engagement to have the loan ready when
it is wanted. The remaining two hundred thousand dollars may
be reserved for the other purposes of foreign intercourse.

I presume that the power, which you design for Mr. Adams,
will be of the same kind with that formerly given to his prede-
cessor, Mr. Short. I wish you to have the two powers prepared
in conformity with this letter.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

June 14, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President. He had thought that the appointment of a Super-
visor for Pennsylvania might, without inconvenience, be deferred
till the return of the President, and therefore deferred mention-
ing it ; but on more particular reflection, as a new revenue year
commences with the 1st of July, he believes it would be of use
to accelerate the appointment.

The persons who have more particularly occurred to the in-
quiries of the Secretary (and his inquiries have been particular
and extensive), are, General Hand, now Inspector; Col. Henry
Miller, of York county ; Charles Biddle, of this city ; Col. Francis
Nichols; M. Clarkson, Mayor; and Major Lennox.

General Hand, from situation, would claim particular con-

;Et.37.] cabinet papers. 567

sideration ; but the Secretary, with, much esteem for that gentle-
man on all personal accounts, is obliged in duty to say, that he
has been so materially defective in the execution of his present
office as to forbid an assurance that the superior one would be ex-
ecuted by him with due attention and exertion. And it is of
vast consequence to the revenue and to the government, that no
mistake should be committed in the present choice.

Of the persons named, Col. Miller, all circumstances con-
sidered, has the judgment of the Secretary in his favor. All
agree that he is a man of good character, of friendly dispositions
to the government and laws of the United States, of industry,
exertion, address and distinguished firmness, of adequate though
not superior ability, and most likely, of any man on whom equal
dependence can be placed, to have weight in the most refractory
scene of this State. He is also a man of decent property, unem-
barrassed. Among those who warmly recommend him is Mr.
Ross, Senator of this State, who lives in one of the most western
counties.

Mr. Biddle has many things in his favor. Perhaps he has
more ability than any of the persons named, and no doubts are
entertained of his firmness, activity, or attention. His con-
nections and influence are principally among the malcontents ;
but most persons who have been consulted entertain an unfavor-
ble impression of his political principles, and think there is not
full assurance that he would not sacrifice the duties of his station
and the interests of the government to party considerations. He
was named by the Democratic Society Vice-President, which he
has, it seems, neither accepted nor publicly disavowed. Several
attach an idea of cunning and duplicity to the character. One
good judge of character thinks favorably of his principles, and
that reliance may be placed ; but the result of a comprehensive
inquiry is, that there would be hazard in the appointment, and
thetcase is believed to be one in which nothing ought to be
hazarded.

Col. Nichols and Major Lennox stand nearly on a level —
both men of adequate understanding, honorable characters, some
property, undoubted firmness, and probable exertion ; but on the

568 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

last point there is greater assurance of Major Lennox. But
neither of these gentlemen seem to have that extensive notoriety
and popularity of character which is desirable to assist the pro-
gress of disagreeable laws. In this particular, Mr. Miller or Mr.
Biddle has greatly the advantage.

Mr. Clarkson has several things in his favor ; perhaps rather
more ability than most of the other persons ; but he wants bodily
activity, which may be a point of consequence ; and he is said to
be much embarrassed in his circumstances.

The Secretary has committed these remarks to writing, not
wishing to intrude on the President to-day, and desirous of
placing the subject immediately before him. If he should con-
clude on the person before he leaves town, it is requested that he
would leave a commission, signed but not completed, in order that
it may be previously ascertained whether Mr. Miller will accept.

Among the persons who have been consulted is the Attorney-
General. He gave a preference to Mr. Miller. His knowledge
of State characters is diffusive and accurate. Mr. Miller was
lately a very promising candidate for the place of Senator in the
Senate of the United States.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, June 16th, 1794.

Sir:

It is with regret I inform }-ou that another collector has
suffered Treasury drafts to return unpaid, which were drawn
upon moneys reported by him to be in his hands — Abraham
Archer, Esq., of Yorktown. Inclosed are letters of apology on
the subject. All the drafts which were at first declined, were
afterwards paid.

I perceive nothing substantially to distinguish this case from
that of the collector of Tappahannock, who was lately super-
seded on a similar account. Nor can I forbear, however painful

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. t 569

the task, to submit it as my opinion in this as in that case, that
the good of the public service requires a displacement of the
officer. Punctuality in this respect is too indispensable not to be
made the invariable condition of continuance in office.
With perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia. June 22, 1794.

Sir:

The Secretary of State, on referring to you the question of
the answer to be given to Mr. Hammond concerning compensa-
tion for certain captured vessels, will, I presume, transmit to you
the opinions of the other gentlemen, as well as his own.

Besides the reasons hastily sketched in the memorandums
given to the Secretary of State, there is one of a delicate nature,
which I did not think fit to put on a paper which might become
a public document, but which, I think, ought to be submitted to
your consideration.

Though the form of only giving the opinion of the President
that it was incumbent upon the United States to make compensa-
tion in the case has been used, yet between nation and nation
this is equivalent to a virtual engagement that compensation will
be made : and we were all sensible in advising the President to
give that opinion, (which advice was unanimous,) that a non-
compliance with it would be a serious commitment of the charac-
ter of the nation, the government, and the President. Indeed, if
the legislature should not do its part, under such circumstances,
it would necessarily give birth to considerations very embar-
rassing to the delicacy of the President.

In such a posture of things is it not advisable to narrow the
obstacles to a right issue of the business? If Mr. Jay is instructed
to insert a formal stipulation in a general arrangement, the Senate
only will have to concur. If provision is to be made by law,

570 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

both houses must concur. The difference is easily seen. And it
is a case where the point of honor is too materially concerned not
to dictate the expediency of leaving as little hazard as possible
upon the issue. It is impossible that any question can arise
about the propriety of giving this course to the business. When
we are demanding compensation for our captured vessels and
goods, it is the simplest thing in the world, to stipulate compen-
sation for those of Great Britain, which we acknowledge to have
been unlawfully made within our territory, or by the use of our
means. It is also with me a material consideration, that the
coupling this with the other objects of Mr. Jay's negotiation,
may tend to disembarrass in future. If the compensation we
seek fails, it may be a good answer to the claim on the other
side, that they were endeavored without success to be made a
subject of reciprocal stipulation. I speak with reference to the
individuals concerned.

I may be, perhaps, too nice. But this is one of those ques-
tions in which ideas of sincerity ) good faith, and honor, in a rela-
tion which must always engage my particular solicitude, press
my judgment to a course of proceeding which is calculated to
dispel all doubt.

"With perfect respect, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, July 2d, 1794.

Dear Sir:

Your private letter of the 22d June came to hand, and for
the opinion contained in it I thank you. I always feel sincere
gratification from the frankness and unreserved advice of my
friends, whether it coincides with my sentiments or not.

As Congress, to whom the matter was referred, did not (from
causes unknown to me) think proper to take up the subject of
compensation for British vessels captured by the proscribed pri-
vateers of France; and as this is one of the subjects committed

jEt.37.] cabinet papers. 571

to Mr. Jay's negotiation, or at least within his powers, T do not
feel disposed to make any further, or more pointed declaration
to Mr. Hammond on this head at this time. My understanding
of the original communication of this business to that gentleman,
differs very widely from your interpretation of it. It is well
known to the late Secretary of State, that more than once, I
pointedly desired that the expression might be so guarded as to
convey nothing more than an opinion of the Executive. This, it
may be said, (and I think) ought to have been, confirmed by the
legislature ; but the fact is otherwise : and although the usage of
other nations may be opposed to this practice, the difference may
result from the difference between their constitutions and ours,
and from the prerogative of their Executives. The powers of
the Executive of the United States are more definite, and better
understood, perhaps, than those of almost any other country,
and my aim has been, and will continue to be, neither to stretch
nor relax from them in any instance whatever, unless imperious
circumstances should render the measure indispensable.

Under this view of the subject, unless the case was more ur-
gent than I think it, the matter (as it respects Mr. Hammond)
had better, I conceive, remain on the footing it now stands ; al-
though I have no objection, as I had written to the Secretary of
State, (before I had received your private letter) that he might
be informed informally, and verbally, that the negotiation of this,
as well as other matters, was transmitted to his own court.

With sincere esteem and regard, I am, &c.

HAMILTON TO RANDOLPH.

Philadelphia, July 8th, 1794.
The Secretary of the Treasury presents his compliments to
the Secretary of State; begs leave to Inform him that his opin-
ion on the question lately proposed, respecting the instruction of
Mr. Jay, eventually to establish by treaty a concert with Sweden

572 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

and Denmark, is against the measure. The United States have
peculiar advantages from situation, which would thereby be
thrown into common stock without an equivalent. Denmark
and Sweden are too weak and too remote to render a co-
operation useful ; and the entanglements of a treaty with them
might be found very inconvenient. The United States had
better stand upon their own ground.

If a war, on the question of neutral rights, should take place,
common interest would likely secure all the co-operation which
is practicable, and occasional arrangements may be made. What
has been already done in this respect, appears, therefore, to be
sufficient.

The subject has varied in the impression entertained of it;
but the foregoing is the final result of full reflection.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, July 11th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

I am sorry to hear that your little son continues indisposed,
and wish you to carry him into the country for a few days, if it
is conceived that exercise and change of air will be of service
to him.

Before you go, or as soon after as convenient, I should be
glad to receive your opinion, in writing, on the Kentucky and
Georgia business — both of which have been communicated to
you by the Secretaries of State and of War, or one of them, ac-
cording to the information I have received.

I sincerely wish that the excursion you propose may have
the desired effect.

I am, dear sir, your affectionate serv't, &c.

P. S. Have you drafted any answer yet to the letter of the Mar-
quis of Lansdown to me, introductory of the Bishop of Autun ?

jet.si.] cabinet papers. 573

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, July 23th, 1794.

4 I have considered the two subjects upon which you desire
my opinion, as maturely as my situation has permitted.

With regard to the proceedings in Kentucky, I perceive
nothing that can, with propriety or utility, be done ; unless the
Attorney-General, on full and careful examination, should be
of opinion, that they furnish indictable matter — in which case, I
should think it very material that prosecutions against the osten-
sible and leading characters should be instituted.

With regard to the affair in Georgia, the following course
presents itself as eligible :

1. To urge the Governor of Georgia to employ, efficaciously,
all the means in his power (that of military coercion, if necessary,
excepted) to prevent the establishment supposed to be meditated,
referring him to the late act of Congress, and informing him that
the expense will be borne by the United States. The command-
ing officer of the troops of the United States to be directed to
co-operate.

2. To apprise the Creek nation of the information which has
been received, and to assure them that the United States will co-
operate with them to prevent the intrusion, in the first instance,,
and afterwards to dispossess the intruders. It may, perhaps, be
made a consideration for urging them to run the line of the last
treaty.

3. To mention the matter informally to the Spanish com-
missioners ; expressing the disapprobation of the government,
and its intention to exert all the measures in its power to frus-
trate the enterprise.

I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, &c.

574 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 37.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

London, July 18th, 1794.

My dear Sir :

I thank you for the printed paper you sent me, and for your
letter by Mons. Cadignan. On maturely considering the latter,
I took an opportunity, in an informal conversation with Lord
Grenville, to communicate it to him.

Still, I am unable to say any thing decisive relative to the ob-
jects of my mission. Appearances continue to be singularly favor-
able ; but appearances merit only a certain degree of circumspect
reliance.

The delays occasioned by the new arrangement of the minis-
try cannot be of long continuance. Circumstances must soon
constrain them to form some ultimate system relative to the
United States ; and although I have much reason to hope it
will be favorable to our wishes, yet I confess I am not without
apprehensions that certain points, not by us to be yielded, will
occasion difficulties hard to surmount. Personally, I have every
reason to be satisfied, and officially, I have as yet no reason to
complain.

Shortly after my arrival, I dined with Lord Grenville. The
cabinet ministers were present, but not a single foreigner. On
Monday next I am to dine with the Lord Chancellor, and on
next Friday with Mr. Pitt. I mention these facts to explain
what I mean by favorable appearances. I think it best that they
should remain unmentioned, for the present, and they make no
part of my communication to Mr. Randolph or others. This is
not the season for such communications ; they may be misinter-
preted, though not by you. I fear the posts may labor, but they
must not be left. We must not make a delusive settlement, that
would disunite our people, and leave seeds of discord to germi-
nate. I will do every thing that prudence and integrity may
dictate and permit ; I will endeavor to accommodate rather than
dispute ; and if this plan should fail, decent and firm representa-
tions must conclude the business of my mission. As yet; I do

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 575

not regret any step that I have taken. I wish I may be able to
say the same thing at the conclusion.

Yours, affectionately, &c.

August 5th. — This letter was inadvertently omitted to be sent
when written. Appearances mend. Give us a fair chance.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, August 2d, 1794.

Sir:

In compliance with your requisitions, I have the honor to
submit my opinion as to the course which it will be advisable for
the President to pursue in regard to the armed opposition re-
cently given in the four western counties of Pennsylvania to the
execution of the laws of the United States, laying duties upon
spirits distilled within the United States, and upon stills.

The case upon which an opinion is required, is summarily as
follows. The four most western counties of Pennsylvania since the
commencement of those laws, a period of more than three years,
have been in steady and violent opposition to them. By formal
public meetings of influential individuals, whose resolutions and
proceedings had for undisguised objects to render the laws odi-
ous, to discountenance a compliance with them, and to intimi-
date individuals from accepting and executing offices under
them ; by a general spirit of opposition (thus fomented) among
the inhabitants ; by repeated instances of armed parties going in
disguise to the houses of the officers of the revenue, and inflict-
ing upon them personal violence and outrage ; by general com-
binations to forbear a compliance with the requisitions of the
laws by examples of injury to the property and insult to the per-
sons of individuals who have shown by their conduct a disposi-
tion to comply, and by an almost universal non-compliance with
the laws ; their execution within the counties in question has
been completely frustrated.

576 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

Various alterations have been made in the laws by the legis-
lature to obviate, as far as possible, the objections of the inhabit-
ants of those counties.

The executive, on its part, has been far from deficient in for-
bearance, lenity, or a spirit of accommodation.

But neither the legislative nor the executive accommodations
have had any effect in producing compliance with the laws.

The opposition has continued and matured, till it has at length
broke out in acts which are presumed to amount to treason.

Armed collections of men, with the avowed design of oppos-
ing the execution of the laws, have attacked the house of the
Inspector of the Revenue, burnt and destroyed his property, and
shed the blood of persons engaged in its defence ; have made
prisoner of the marshal of the district, and did not release him,
till for the safety of his life he stipulated to execute no more
processes within the disaffected counties ; have compelled both
him and the inspector of the revenue to fly the country by a
circuitous route, to avoid personal injury, perhaps assassination;
have proposed the assembling of a convention of delegates from
those counties and the neighboring ones of Virginia, probably
with a view to systematize measures of more effectual opposi-
tion ; have forcibly seized, opened, and spoliated a mail of the
United States.

What in this state of things is proper to be done? The Pre-
sident has, with the advice of the Heads of Departments and the
Attorney-General, caused to be submitted all the evidence of the
foregoing facts to the consideration of an associate judge, under
the act entitled, "An act to provide for calling forth the militia
to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrection, and
repel invasion."

If the judge shall pronounce that the case described in the
second section of that act exists, it will follow that a competent
force of militia should be called forth and employed to suppress
the insurrection, and support the civil authority in effectuating
obedience to the laws and the puishment of offenders.

It appears to me that the very existence of government de-
mands this course, and that a duty of the highest nature urges

vEt.37.] cabinet papers. 577

the Chief Magistrate to pursue it. The Constitution and laws of
the United States contemplate and provide for it.

What force of militia shall be called out, and from what
State or States?

The force ought, if attainable, to be an imposing one, such, if
practicable, as will deter from opposition, save the effusion of the
blood of citizens, and serve the object to be accomplished.

The quantum must, of course, be regulated by the resistance
to be expected. 'Tis computed that the four opposing counties
contain upwards of sixteen thousand males of sixteen years
and more, that of these about seven thousand may be expected
to be armed.

'Tis possible that the union of the neighboring counties of
Virginia may augment this force. 'Tis not impossible that it
may receive an accession from some adjacent counties of this*
State on this side of the Alleghany mountains.

To be prepared for the worst, I am of opinion, that twelve
thousand militia ought to be ordered to assemble ; 9,000 foot and
3,000 horse. I should not propose so many horse, but for the
probability that this decription of militia will be more easily
procured for the service.

From what State or States shall these come ?

The law contemplates that the militia of a State, in which an
insurrection happens, if willing and sufficient, shall first be em-
ployed, but gives power to employ the militia of other States in
the case either of refusal or insufficiency.

The Governor of Pennsylvania, in an official conference this
day, gave it explicitly as his opinion to the President, that the
militia of Pennsylvania alone would be found incompetent to the
suppression of the insurrection.

This opinion of the Chief Magistrate of the State, is presumed
to be a sufficient foundation for calling in, in the first instance,
the aid of the militia of the neighboring States.

I would submit, then, that Pennsylvania be required to fur-
nish 6,000 men, of whom 1,000 to be horse ; New Jersey 2,000,.
of whom 800 to be horse ; Maryland 2,000, of whom (300 to be
horse; Virginia 2,000, of whom 600 to be horse.
D 37

578 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

Or, perhaps, it may be as eligible to call upon each State for
such a number of troops, leaving to itself the proportion of
horse and foot according to convenience. The militia called for to
rendezvous at Carlisle, in Pennsylvania, and Cumberland Fort, in
Virginia, on the 10th of September next. The law requires that
previous to the using of force, a Proclamation shall issue, com-
manding the insurgents to disperse and return peaceably to their
respective abodes within a limited time. This step must, of
course, be taken.

The application of the force to be called out and other ulte-
rior measures must depend on circumstances as they shall arise.

With the most perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Report on Opposition to Internal Duties.

Treasury Department. August 5th, 1794.

Sir:

The disagreeable crisis at which matters have lately arrived
in some of the western counties of Pennsvlvania, with regard to
the law laying duties on spirits distilled within the United States,
and on stills, seems to render proper a review of the circum-
stances which have attended those laws in that scene from their
commencement to the present time, and of the conduct which
has hitherto been observed on the part of the government, its
motives and effect, in order to a better judgment of the measures
necessary to be pursued in the existing emergency.

The opposition to those laws in the four most western coun-
ties of Pennsylvania, (Alleghany, Washington, Fayette, and
Westmoreland,) commenced as early as they were known to have
been passed. It has continued with different degrees of violence,
in the different counties, and at different periods, but Washington
has uniformly distinguished its resistance by a more excessive
spirit than has appeared in the other counties, and seems to have

iEi. 37.] cabinet papers. 579

been chiefly instrumental in kindling and keeping alive the
flame.

The opposition first manifested itself in the milder shape of
the circulation of opinions unfavorable to the law, and calcu-
lated by the influence of public disesteem to discourage the
accepting or holding of offices under it, or the complying with it
by those who might be so disposed, to which was added the show
of a discontinuance of the business of distilling.

These expedients were shortly after succeeded by private
associations to forbear compliances with the law. But it was not
long before these more negative modes of opposition were per-
ceived to be likely to prove ineffectual. And in proportion as
this was the case, and as the means of introducing the laws into
operation were put into execution, the disposition to resistance
became more turbulent and more inclined to adopt and practice
violent expedients. The officers now began to experience marks
of contempt and insult. Threats against them became more
frequent and loud ; and after some time these threats were
ripened into acts of ill treatment and outrage.

These acts of violence were preceded by certain meetings of
malcontent persons, who entered into resolutions calculated at
once to confirm, inflame, and systematize the spirit of opposition.

The first of these meetings was holden at a place called Eed
Stone Old Fort, on the 27th of July, 1791, where it was concert-
ed that county committees should be convened in the four coun-
ties, at the respective seats of justice therein. On the 23d of
August following, one of these committees assembled in the
county of Washington.

This meeting passed some intemperate resolutions, which
were afterwards printed in the Pittsburgh Gazette, containing a
strong censure on the law, declaring that any person who had ac-
cepted or might accept an office under Congress, in order to carry it
into effect, should be considered as inimical to the interests of the coun-
try; and recommending to the citizens of Washington county to
treat every person who had accepted or might thereafter accept
any such office, with contempt, and absolutely to refuse all kind
of communication or intercourse with the officers, and to with-
hold from them all aid, support, or comfort.

580 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

Not content with this vindictive proscription of those, who
might esteem it their duty, in the capacity of officers, to aid in
the execution of the constitutional laws of the land, the meeting
proceeded to accumulate topics of crimination of the govern-
ment, though foreign to each other, authorizing by this zeal for
censure, a suspicion that they were actuated, not merely by the
dislike of a particular law, but by a disposition to render the
government itself unpopular and odious.

This meeting, in further prosecution of their plan, deputed
three of their members to meet delegates from the counties of
Westmoreland, Fayette, and Alleghany, on the first Tuesday of
September following, for the purpose of expressing the sense of
the people of those counties, in an address to the Legislature of
the United States upon the subject of the excise law and other
grievances.

Another meeting accordingly took place on the 7th of Sep-
tember, 1791, at Pittsburgh, in the county of Alleghany, at
which there appeared persons in the character of delegates from
the four western counties.

This meeting entered into resolutions more comprehensive in
their objects, and not less inflammatory in their tendency, than
those which had before passed the meeting in Washington.

Their resolutions contained severe censures, not only on the
law which was the immediate subject of objection, but upon what
they termed the exorbitant salaries of officers, the unreasonable
interest of the public debt, the want of discrimination between
original holders and transferees, and the institution of a national
bank. The same unfriendly temper towards the government of
the United States, which seemed to have led out of their way
the meeting at Washington, appears to have produced a similar
wandering in that at Pittsburgh.

A representation to Congress, and a remonstrance to the le-
gislature of Pennsylvania against the law more particularly com-
plained of, were prepared by this meeting, published together
with the other proceedings in the Pittsburgh Gazette, and after-
wards presented to the respective bodies to whom they were
addressed.

i£<r.37.3 CABINET PAPERS. 581

These meetings, composed of very influential individuals,
and conducted without moderation or prudence, are justly charge-
able with the excesses which have been from time to time com-
mitted ; serving to give consistency to an opposition which has
at length matured to a point that threatens the foundations of the
government and of the Union, unless speedily and effectually
subdued.

On the 6th of the same month of September, the opposition
broke out in an aet of violence upon the person and property of
Bobert Johnson, collector of the revenues for the counties of Al-
leghany and Washington.

A party of men, armed and disguised, waylaid him at a place
on Pidgeon Creek, in Washington county, seized, tarred and
feathered, him, cut off his hair, and deprived him of his horse,
obliging him to travel on foot a considerable distance in that
mortifying and painful situation.

The case was brought before the District Court of Pennsvl-
vania, out of which processes issued against John Eobertson,
John Hamilton, and Thomas McComb, three of the persons con-
cerned in the outrage.

The serving of these processes was confided by the then mar-
shal, Clement Biddle, to his deputy, Joseph Fox, who in the month
of October went into Alleghany county for the purpose of
serving them.

The appearances and circumstances which Mr. Fox observed
himself, in the course of his journey, and learnt afterwards, upon
his arrival at Pittsburgh, had the effect of deterring him from
the service of the processes, and unfortunately led to adopt the
injudicious and fruitless expedient of sending them to the parties
by a private messenger under cover.

The deputy's report to the marshal states a number of partic-
ulars evincing a considerable fermentation in the part of the
country to which he was sent, and inducing a belief on his part,
that he could not with safety have executed the processes. The
marshal, transmitting this report to the district attorney, makes
the following observations upon it: "I am sorry to add, that he
(the deputy) found the people in general in the western part of

582 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 37.

the State, and particularly beyond the Alleghany mountains, in
such a ferment on account of the act of Congress for laying a
duty on distilled spirits, and so much opposed to the execution
of the said act, and from a variety of threats to himself person-
ally, although he took the utmost precaution to conceal his er-
rand, that he was not only convinced of the impossibility of
serving the process, but that any attempt to effect it would have
occasioned the most violent opposition from the greater part of
the inhabitants ; and he declares that if he had attempted it, he
believes he should not have returned alive. I spared no expense
nor pains to have the process of the court executed, and have not
the least doubt that my deputy would have accomplished it, if it
could have been done."

The reality of the danger to the deputy was countenanced by
the opinion of General Neville, the inspector of the revenue, a
man who before had given, and since has given, numerous proofs
of a steady and firm temper. And what followed is a further
confirmation of it. The person who had been sent with the pro-
cesses was seized, whipped, tarred and feathered, and after having
his money and horse taken from him, was blindfolded and tied
in the woods, in which condition he remained five hours.

Yery serious reflections naturally occurred upon this occasion.
It seemed highly probable, from the issue of the experiment
which had been made, that the ordinary course of civil process
would be ineffectual for enforcing the execution of the law in
the scene in question, and that a perseverance in this course
might lead to a serious concussion. The law itself was still in
the infancy of its operation, and far from established in other
important portions of the Union. Prejudices against it had been
industriously disseminated, misrepresentations diffused,, miscon-
ceptions fostered. The legislature of the United States had not
yet organized the means by which the Executive could come in
aid of the Judiciary, when found incompetent to the execution
of the laws. If neither of these impediments to a decisive exer-
tion had existed, it was desirable, especially in a republican gov-
ernment, to avoid what is in such cases the ultimate resort, till
all the milder means had been tried without success. .

jEt.37.] cabinet papers. 583

Under the united influence of these considerations, it ap-
peared advisable to forbear urging coercive measures, until the
laws had gone into more extensive operation, till further time for
reflection and experience of its operation had served to correct
false impressions and inspire greater moderation, and till the
legislature had had an opportunity, by a revision of the law, to
remove as far as possible objections, and to reinforce the pro-
visions for securing its execution.

Other incidents occurred from time to time, which are further
proofs of the very improper temper that prevailed among the in-
habitants of the refractory counties.

Mr. Johnson was not the only officer who about the same
period experienced outrage. Mr. Wells, collector of the revenue
for Westmoreland and Fayette, was also ill-treated at Greens-
burgh and Union Town ; nor were the outrages perpetrated con-
fined to the officers ; they extended to private citizens who only
dared to show their respect for the laws of their country.

Some time in October, 1791, an unhappy man of the name of
Wilson, a stranger in the county, and manifestly disordered in
his intellects, imagining himself to be a collector of the revenue,
or invested with some trust in relation to it, was so unlucky as
to make inquiries concerning distillers who had entered their
stills, giving out that he was to travel through the United States,
to ascertain and report to Congress the number of stills, &c.
This man was pursued by a party in disguise, taken out of his
bed, carried about five miles back to a smith's shop, stripped of
his clothes, which were afterwards burnt, and, after having been
himself inhumanly burnt in several places with a heated iron, was
tarred and feathered, and about daylight dismissed — naked,
wounded, and otherwise in a very suffering condition. These
particulars are communicated in a letter from the inspector of the
revenue, of the 17th of November, who declares that he had
then himself seen the unfortunate maniac, the abuse of whom, as
he expresses it, exceeded description, and was suiheient to make
human nature shudder. The affair is the more extraordinary, as
persons of weight and consideration in that county are under-
stood to have been actors in it, and as the symptoms of insanity

584 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

were, during the whole time of inflicting the punishment, appa-
rent— the unhappy sufferer displaying the heroic fortitude of a
man who conceived himself to be a martyr to the discharge of
some important duty.

Not long after, a person of the name of Koseberry underwent
the humiliating punishment of tarring and feathering, with some
aggravations, for having in conversation hazarded the very
natural and just but unpalatable remark, that the inhabitants of
that county could not reasonably expect protection from a gov-
ernment whose laws they so strenuously opposed.

The audacity of the perpetrators of those excesses was so
great, that an armed banditti ventured to seize and carry off two
persons who were witnesses against the rioters in the case of
Wilson, in order to prevent their giving testimony of the riot to
a court then sitting, or about to sit.

Designs of personal violence against the inspector of the
revenue himself, to force him to a resignation, were repeatedly
attempted to be put in execution by armed parties, but by differ-
ent circumstances were frustrated.

In the session of Congress which commenced in October,
1791, the law laying a duty on distilled spirits and stills came
under the revision of Congress, as had been anticipated. By an
act passed May 8th, 1792, during that session, material altera-
tions were made in it. Among these the duty was reduced to a
rate so moderate as to have silenced complaint on that head ; and
a new and very favorable alternative was given to the distiller,
that of paying a monthly instead of a yearly rate, according to
the capacity of his still, with liberty to take a license for the pre-
cise term which he should intend to work it, and to renew that
license for a further term or terms. This amending act, in its
progress through the legislature, engaged the particular attention
of members who themselves were interested in distilleries, and of
others who represented parts of the county in which the business
of distilling was extensively carried on.

Objections were well considered, and great pains taken to
obviate all such as had the semblance of reasonableness.

The effect has in a great measure corresponded with the

JEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 585

views of the legislature. Opposition has subsided in several
districts where it before prevailed ; and it was natural to enter-
tain and not easy to abandon a hope that the same thing would
by degrees have taken place in the four western counties of this
State. But, notwithstanding some flattering appearances at par-
ticular junctures, and infinite pains by various expedients to
produce the desirable issue, the hope entertained has never been
realized, and is now at an end, as far as the ordinary means of
executing laws are concerned.

The first law had left the number and positions of the
officers of inspection, which were to be established in each dis-
trict for receiving entries of stills, to the discretion of the super-
visor. The second, to secure a due accommodation to distillers,
provides peremptorily that there shall be one in each county.

The idea was immediately embraced, that it was a very im-
portant point in the scheme of opposition to the law, to prevent
the establishment of offices in the respective counties. For this
purpose the intimidation of well-disposed inhabitants was added
to the plan of molesting and obstructing the officers by force or
otherwise, as might be necessary. So effectually was the first
point carried (the certain destruction of property, and the peril
of life being involved), that it became almost impracticable to
obtain suitable places for offices in some of the counties, and
when obtained, it was found a matter of necessity, in almost
every instance, to abandon them.

After much effort, the inspector of the revenue succeeded in
procuring the house of William Faulkner, a captain in the army,
for an office of inspection in the county of Washington. This
took place in August, 1792. The office was attended by the in-
spector of the revenue in person, till prevented by the following
incidents.

Captain Faulkner, being in pursuit of some deserters from
the troops, was encountered by a number of people in the same
neighborhood where Mr. Johnson had been ill-treated the pre-
ceding year, who reproached him with letting his house for an
office of inspection, drew a knife upon him, threatened to scalp
him, tar and feather him, and reduce his house and property to

586 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

ashes, if he did not solemnly promise to prevent the further use
of his house for an office. Capt. Faulkner was induced to make
the promise exacted, and, in consequence of the circumstance,
wrote a letter to the inspector, dated the 20th of August, coun-
termanding the permission for using his house, and the day fol-
lowing gave a public notice in the Pittsburgh Gazette, that the
office of inspection should be no longer kept there.

At the same time another engine of opposition was in opera-
tion. Agreeable to a previous notification, there met at Pitts-
burgh, on the 21st of August, a number of persons styling
themselves "A Meeting of sundry Inhabitants of the Western
Counties of Pennsylvania."

This meeting entered into resolutions not less exceptionable
than those of its predecessors. The preamble suggested that a
tax on spirituous liquors is unjust in itself, and oppressive upon
the poor, — that internal taxes upon consumption, must in the end
destroy the liberties of every country in which they are intro-
duced— that the law in question, from certai n local circumstances
which are specified, would bring immediate distress and ruin
upon the western country, and concludes with the sentiment,
that they think it their duty to persist in remonstrances to Con-
gress, and in every other legal measure, that may obstruct the
operation of the law.

The resolutions then proceed, first, to appoint a committee to
prepare and cause to be presented to Congress an address, stating
objections to the law, and praying for its repeal. Secondly, to
appoint committees of correspondence for Washington, Fayette,
and Alleghany, charged to correspond together, and with such
committee as should be appointed for the same purpose in the
county of Westmoreland, or with any committees of a simi-
lar nature that might be appointed in other parts of the
United States ; and also, if found necessary, to call together either
general meetings of the people, in their respective counties, or
conferences of the several committees ; and lastly, to declare that
they will, in future, consider those who hold offices for the col-
lection of the duty, as unworthy of their friendship, that they
will have no intercourse nor dealings with them, will withdraw from

^t. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 587

them every assistance, withhold all the comforts of life which depend
upon those duties that as men and fellow-citizens we owe to each oilier,
and will upon all occasions treat them with contempt, earnestly RE-
COMMENDING IT TO THE PEOPLE AT LARGE TO FOLLOW THE
SAME LINE OF CONDUCT TOWARDS THEM.

The idea of pursuing legal measures to obstruct the operation
of a law, needs little comment. Legal measures may be pursued
to procure the repeal of a law, but to obstruct its operation, pre-
sents a contradiction in terms. The operation, or what is the
same thing, the execution of a law, cannot be obstructed after it
has been constitutionally enacted, without illegality and crime.
The expression quoted is one of those phrases which can only be
used to conceal a disorderly and culpable intention under forms
that may escape the hold of the law.

Neither was it difficult to perceive, that the anathema pro-
nounced against the officers of the revenue, placed them in a
state of virtual outlawry, and operated as a signal to all those
who were bold enough to encounter the guilt and the danger to
violate both their lives and their properties.

The foregoing proceedings, as soon as known, were reported
by the Secretary of the Treasury to the President. The Presi-
dent, on the 15th of September, 1792, issued a proclamation,
" earnestly admonishing and exhorting all persons whom it might
concern, to refrain and desist from all unlawful combinations
and proceedings whatsoever, having for object, or tending to ob-
struct the operation of the laws aforesaid, inasmuch as all law-
ful ways and means would be put in execution for bringing to
justice the infractors thereof, and securing obedience thereto:
and moreover, charging and requiring all courts, magistrates and
officers whom it might concern, according to the duties of their
several offices, to exert the powers in them respectively vested
bylaw, for the purposes aforesaid: thereby also enjoining and
requiring all persons whomsoever, as they tendered the welfare
of their country, the just and due authority of government, and
the preservation of the public peace, to be aiding and assisting
therein according to law ;" and likewise directed that prosecu-
tions might be instituted against the offenders in the cases, in

588 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 37.

which the laws would support, and the requisite evidence could
be obtained.

Pursuant to these instructions, the Attorney- General, in co-
operation with the attorney of the district, attended a circuit
court which was holden at Yorktown, in October, 1792, for the
purpose of bringing forward prosecutions in the proper cases.

Collateral measures were taken to procure for this purpose
the necessary evidence.

The supervisor of the revenue was sent into the opposing
survey — to ascertain the real state of that survey — to obtain evi-
dence of the persons who were concerned in the riot in Faulk-
ner's case, and of those who composed the meeting at Pittsburgh,
to uphold the confidence and encourage the perseverance of the
officers acting under the law, and to induce, if possible, the in-
habitants of that part of the survey which appeared least disin-
clined to come voluntarily into the law by arguments addressed
to their sense of duty, and exhibiting the eventual dangers and
mischiefs of resistance.

The mission of the supervisor had no other fruit than that of
obtaining evidence of the persons who composed the meeting at
Pittsburgh, and of two who were understood to be concerned in
the riot; and a confirmation of the enmity- which certain active
and designing leaders had industriously infused into a large pro-
portion of the inhabitants, not against the particular laws in
question only, but of a more ancient date, against the govern-
ment of the United States itself.

The then Attorney-General being of opinion that it was at
best a doubtful point whether the proceedings of the meeting at
Pittsburgh contained indictable matter, no prosecution was at-
tempted against those who composed it, though, if the ground
for proceeding against them had appeared to be firm, it is pre-
sumed that the truest policy would have dictated that course.

Indictments were preferred to the circuit court, and found
against the two persons understood to have been concerned in
the riot, and the usual measures were taken for carrying them
into effect.

But it appearing afterwards from various representations sup-

J&t. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 589

ported by satisfactory testimony, that there had been some mis-
take as to the persons accused, justice and policy demanded that
the prosecutions should be discontinued, which was accordingly
done.

This issue of the business unavoidably defeated the attempt
to establish examples of the punishment of persons who engaged
in a violent resistance of the laws, and left the officers to strug-
gle against the stream of resistance without the advantage of
such examples.

The following plan, afterwards successively put in execution^
was about this time digested, for carrying,, if possible, the laws
into effect without the necessity of recurring to force.

1. To prosecute delinquents in the cases in which it could be
clearly done for non-compliance with the laws. 2. To intercept
the markets for the surplus produce of the distilleries of the non-
complying counties by seizing the spirits on their way to those
markets in places where it could be effected without opposition.
3. By purchases through agents, for the use of the army, (instead
of deriving the supply through contracts as formerly,) confining
them to spirits, in respect to which there had been a compliance
with the laws.

The motives to this plan speak for themselves. It aimed, be-
sides the influence of penalties on delinquents, at making it the
general interest of the distillers to comply with the laws, by in-
terrupting the market for a very considerable surplus, and by at
the same time confining the benefit of the large demand for
public service to those who did their duty to the public, and fur-
nishing through the means of payment in cash, that medium for
paying the duties, the want of which was alleged to be a great
difficulty in the way of compliance. But two circumstances con-
spired to counteract the success of the plan ; one the necessity
towards incurring the penalties of non-compliance, of there being
an officer of inspection in each county, which was prevented in
some of the counties by means of the intimidation practised for
that purpose. Another, the non-extension of the law to the ter-
ritory north-west of the Ohio, into which a large proportion of
the surplus before mentioned was sent. A cure for these defects

590 HAMITLON'S WORKS. [Mr. 37.

could only come from the legislature. Accordingly, in the ses-
sion which began in November, 1792, measures were taken for
procuring a further revision of the laws. A bill containing
amendments of those and other defects, was brought in ; but it
so happened, that this object, by reason of more urgent business,
was deferred till towards the close of the session, and finally
went off through the usual hurry of that period.

The continuance of the embarrassment incident to this state
of things, naturally tended to diminish much of the efficacy of
the plan which had been devised. Yet it was resolved, as far as
legal provisions would bear out the officers, to pursue it with
perseverance. There was ground to entertain hopes of its good
effects ; and it was certainly the most likely course which could
have been adopted towards attaining the objects of the laws, by
means short of force ; evincing unequivocally the sincere dispo-
sition to avoid this painful resort, and the steady moderation
which has characterized the measures of the government.

In pursuance of this plan, prosecutions were occasionally in-
stituted in the mildest forms, seizures were made, as opportuni-
ties occurred ; and purchases on public account were carried on.

It may be incidentally remarked, that these purchases were
extended to other places ; where, though the same disorders did
not exist, it appeared advisable to facilitate the payment of the
duties by this species of accommodation.

Nor was this plan, notwithstanding the deficiency of legal
provision, which impeded its full execution, without correspond-
ing effects. Symptoms from time to time appeared which au-
thorized expectations, that with the aid, at another session, of
the desired supplementary provisions, it was capable of accom-
plishing its end, if no extraordinary events occurred.

The opponents of the laws, not insensible of the tendency of
that plan, nor of the defects in the laws which interfered with it,
did not fail from time to time to pursue analogous modes of
counteraction. The effort to frustrate the establishment of
offices of inspection, in particular, was persisted in, and even
increased. Means of intimidating officers and others, continued
to be exerted.

iEx.37.] CABINET PAPERS. 591

In April, 1793, a party of armed men in disguise made an
attack in the night upon the house of a collector of revenue, who
resided in Fayette county, but he happening to be from home,
they contented themselves with breaking open his house, threat-
ening, terrifying, and abusing his family.

Warrants were issued for apprehending some of the rioters
upon this occasion, by Isaac Mason and James Findlay, assistant
judges of Fayette county, which were delivered to the sheriff of
that county, who, it seems, refused to execute them, for which
he has since been indicted.

This is at once an example of the disposition to support the
laws of the Union, and of an opposite one, in the local officers
of Pennsylvania, within the non-complying scene. But it is a
truth too important not to be noticed, and too injurious not to
be lamented, that the prevailing spirit of those officers has been
either hostile or lukewarm to the execution of those laws ; and
that the weight of an unfriendly official influence has been one of
the most serious obstacles with which they have had to struggle.

In June following, the inspector of the revenue was burnt in
effigy in Alleghany county, at a place and on a day of some
public election, with much display, in the presence of and with-
out interruption from magistrates and other public officers.

On the night of the 22d of November, another party of men,
some of them armed, and all in disguise, went to the house of the
same collector of Fayette which had been visited in April, broke
and entered it, and demanded a surrender of the officer's com-
mission and official books. Upon his refusing to deliver them
up, they presented pistols at him, and swore that if he did not
comply they would instantly put him to death. At length a
surrender of the commission and books were enforced. But not
content with this, the rioters, before they departed, required of
the officer that he should, within two weeks, publish his resig-
nation on pain of another such visit and a destruction of his
house.

Notwithstanding these excesses, the laws appeared during the
latter periods of this year to be rather gaining ground. Several
principal distillers, who had formerly held out, complied, and

592 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

others discovered a disposition to comply, which was only re-
strained by the fear of violence.

But these favorable circumstances served to beget alarm,
among those who were determined, at all events, to prevent the
quiet establishment of the laws. It soon appeared that they
meditated, by fresh and greater excesses, to aim a still more
effectual blow at them — to subdue the growing spirit of com-
pliance, and to destroy entirely the organs of the laws, within
that part of the country, by compelling all the officers to renounce
their offices.

The last proceeding in the case of the collector of Fayette,
was in this spirit.

In January, of the present year, further violences appear to
have been perpetrated. William Richmond, who had given
information against some of the rioters in the affair of Wilson,
had his barn burnt with all the grain and hay which it contained
— and the same thing happened to Robert Shawhair, a distiller,
who had been among the first to comply with the law, and who
had always spoken favorably of it. But in neither of these in-
stances (which happened in the county of Alleghany), though
the presumptions were violent, was any positive proof ob-
tained.

The inspector of the revenue, in a letter of the 27th of Feb-
ruary, writes, that he had received information that persons
living near the dividing line of Alleghany and Washington,, had
thrown out threats of tarring and feathering one William
Cochran, a complying distiller, of burning his distillery — and
that it had also been given out, that in three weeks, there would
not be a house standing in Alleghany county, of any person who
had complied with the laws ; — in consequence of which, he had
been induced to pay a visit to several leading individuals in that
quarter, as well to ascertain the truth of the information, as to>
endeavor to avert the attempt to execute such threats.

It appeared afterwards, that on his return home, he had been
pursued by a collection of disorderly persons, threatening, as
they went along, vengeance against him. On their way these
men called at the house of James Kiddoe, who had recently com-

jEt.37.] cabinet papers. 593

plied with the laws, broke into his still-house, fired several balls
under his still, and scattered fire over and about the house.

Letters from the inspector in March, announce an increased
activity in promoting opposition to the laws — frequent meetings
to cement and extend the combinations against it — and among
other means for this purpose, a plan of collecting a force to seize
him, compel him to resign his commission, and detain him
prisoner probably as a hostage.

In May ■ and June new violences were committed. James
Kiddoe, the person above mentioned, and William Cochran,
another complying distiller, met with repeated injury to their
property. Kiddoe had parts of his grist-mill at different times
carried away, and Cochran suffered more material injuries — his
still was destroyed, his saw-mill was rendered useless by the
taking away of the saw, and his grist-mill so injured as to require
to be repaired at considerable expense.

At the last visit, a note in writing was left, requiring him to
publish what he had suffered in the Pittsburgh Gazette, on pain
of another visit, in which he is threatened in figurative but in-
telligible terms, with the destruction of his property by fire ;
thus adding to the profligacy of doing wanton injuries to a fellow-
citizen, the tyranny of compelling him to be the publisher of his
wrongs.

June being the month for receiving annual entries of stills,
endeavors were used to open offices in Westmoreland and Wash-
ington, where it had been hitherto found impracticable. With
much pains and difficulty places were secured for the purpose.
That in Westmoreland was repeatedly attacked in the night by
armed men, who frequently fired upon it, but according to a
report which has been made to this department, it was defended
with so much courage arid perseverance by John Wells, an
auxiliary officer, and Philip Kegan, the owner of the house, as
to have been maintained during the remainder of the month.

That in Washington, after repeated attempts, was suppressed ;

the first attempt was confined to pulling down the sign of the

office, and threats of future destruction ; the second effected the

object in the following mode : About twelve persons, armed and.

D 38

594 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.ZI.

painted black, in the night of the 6th of June, broke into the
house of John Symn, where the office was kept, and after having
treacherously seduced him to come down stairs and put himself
in their power, by a promise of safety to himself and his house
— they seized and tied him, threatened to hang him — took him
to a retired spot in a neighboring wood, and there, after cutting
off his hair, tarring and feathering him, swore him never again
to allow the use of his house for an office ; never to disclose their
names, and never again to have any sort of agency in aid of the
excise ; — having done which, they bound him naked to a tree,
and left him in that situation till morning, when he succeeded in
extricating himself. Not content with this, the malcontents some
days after made him another visit, pulled down part of his house,
and put him in a situation to be obliged to become an exile from
his home, and to find an asylum elsewhere.

During this time several of the distillers, who had made
entries and benefited by them, refused the payment of the duties,
actuated, no doubt, by various motives.

Indications of a plan to proceed against the inspector of the
revenue, in the manner which has been before mentioned, con-
tinued. In a letter from him of the 10th of July, he observed
that the threatened visit had not been made, though he had still
reason to expect it.

In the session of Congress which began in December, 1793, a
bill for making the amendments in the laws, which had been for
some time desired, was brought in, and on the 5th of June last
became a law.

It is not to be doubted that the different stages of this busi-
ness were regularly notified to the malcontents, and that a con-
viction of the tendency of the amendments contemplated to
effectuate the execution of the law,*had matured the resolution
to bring matters to a violent crisis.

The increasing energy of the opposition rendered it indispen-
sable to meet the evil with proportionable decision. The idea
of giving time for the law to extend itself in scenes where the
dissatisfaction with it was the effect not of an improper spirit
but of causes which were of a nature to yield to reason, reflec

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 595

tion and experience (which had constantly weighed in the esti-
mate of the measures proper to be pursued), had had its effect in
an extensive degree. The experiment, too, had been long enough
tried to ascertain, that where resistance continued the root of
the evil lay deep, and required measures of greater efficacy than
had been pursued.

The laws had undergone repeated revisions of the legislative
representatives of the Union, and had virtually received their
repeated sanction, without even an attempt, as far as is now
recollected or can be traced, to effect their repeal — affording an
evidence of the general sense of the community in their favor.
Complaints began to be loud from complying quarters, against
the impropriety and injustice of suffering the laws to remain un-
executed in others.

Under the united influence of these considerations, there was
no choice but to try the efficiency of the laws in prosecuting with
vigor delinquents and offenders.

Processes issued against a number of non-complying distillers
in the counties of Fayette and Alleghany, and indictments hav-
ing been found at a circuit court, holden at Philadelphia in
July last, against Robert Smilee and John McCulloch, two of
the rioters in the attack which in November preceding had
been made upon the house of a collector of the revenue in Fay-
ette county, processes issued against them also, to bring them to
trial, and, if guilty, to punishment.

The marshal of the district went in person to serve these
processes. He executed the trust without interruption, though
under many discouraging circumstances, in Fayette county;
but while he was in the execution of it in Alleghany county —
being then accompanied by the inspector of the revenue, to wit,
on the 15th of July last — he was beset on the road by a party
of from* thirty to forty armed men, who, after much previous
irregularity of conduct, finally fired upon him, but, as it happened,
without injury either to him or to the inspector.

This attempt on the marshal was but the prelude of greater
excesses.

About break of day, the 16th of July, in conformity with a

596 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

plan which seems to have been for some time entertained, and
which probably was only accelerated by the coming of the mar-
shal into the survey, an attack by about one. hundred persons,
armed with guns and other weapons, was made upon the house
of the inspector, in the vicinity of Pittsburgh. The inspector,
though alone, vigorously defended himself against the assail-
ants, and obliged them to retreat without accomplishing their
purpose.

Apprehending that the business would not terminate here, he
made application, by letter, to the judges, generals of militia, and
sheriff of the county, for protection. A reply to his application
from John Wilkins, junior, and John Gibson, magistrates and
militia officers, informed him, that the laws could not be execu-
ted, so as to afford him the protection to which he was entitled,
owing to the too general combination of the people in that part
of Pennsylvania to oppose the revenue law ; adding, that they
would take every step in their power to bring the rioters to jus-
tice, and would be glad to receive information of the individuals
concerned in the attack upon his house, that prosecutions might
be commenced against them ; and expressing their sorrow that,
should the posse comitatus of the county be ordered out in sup-
port of the civil authority, very few could be gotten that were
not of the party of the rioters.

The day following, the insurgents reassembled with a con-
siderable augmentation of numbers, amounting, as has been com-
puted, to at least five hundred, and on the 17th of July renewed
their attack upon the house of the inspector ; who, in the inter-
val had taken the precaution of calling to his aid a small de-
tachment from the garrison of Fort Pitt, which, at the time of
the attack, consisted of eleven men, who had been joined by
Major Abraham Kirkpatrick, a friend and connection of the
inspector.

There being scarcely a prospect of effectual defence against
so large a body as then appeared, and as the inspector had every
thing to apprehend for his person, if taken, it was judged advisa-
ble that he should withdraw from the house to a place of conceal-
ment— Major Kirkpatrick generously agreeing to remain with

jEt.37.] cabinet papers. 597

the eleven men, in the intention, if practicable, to make a capitu-
lation in favor of the property ; if not, to defend it as long as
possible.

A parley took place, under cover of a flag which was sent by
the insurgents to the house, to demand that the inspector should
come forth, renounce his office, and stipulate never again to accept
office under the same laws. To this it was replied, that the in-
spector had left the house upon their first approach, and that the
place to which he had retired was unknown. They then de-
clared that they must have whatever related to his office. They
were answered, that they might send persons, not exceeding six,
to search the house and take away whatever papers they could
find appertaining to the office. But, not satisfied with this, they
insisted, unconditionally, that the armed men who were in the
house for its defence should march out and ground their arms,
which Major Kirkpatrick peremptorily refused, considering it,
and representing it to them, as a proof of their design to destroy
the property. This refusal put an end to the parley.

A brisk firing then ensued between the insurgents and those
in the house, which, it is said, lasted for nearly an hour, till the
assailants, having set fire to the neighboring and adjacent build-
ings, eight in number, the intenseness of the heat, and the danger
of an immediate communication of the fire to the house, obliged
Major Kirkpatrick and his small party to come out and sur-
render themselves. In the course of the firing, one of the insur-
gents was killed and several wounded, and three of the persons
in the house were also wounded. The person killed is under-
stood to have been the leader of the party, of the name of James
McFarlane, then a major in the militia, formerly a lieutenant in
the Pennsylvania line. The dwelling-house, after the surrender
shared the fate of the other buildings, the whole of which were
consumed to the ground. The loss of property to the inspector,
upon this occasion, is estimated (and, as it is believed, with great
moderation) at not less than three thousand pounds.

The marshal, Colonel Presley Neville, and several others,
were taken by the insurgents going to the inspector's house.
All, except the marshal and Colonel Neville, soon made their

598 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

escape ; but these were carried off some distance from the place
where the affray had happened, and detained till one or two
o'clock the next morning. In the course of their detention, the
marshal in particular suffered very severe and humiliating treat-
ment, and was frequently in imminent danger of his life. Sev-
eral of the party repeatedly presented their pieces at him, with
every appearance of a design to assassinate him, from which they
were with difficulty restrained by the efforts of a few, more hu-
mane and more prudent.

Nor could he obtain safety or liberty, but upon the condition
of a promise, guarantied by Colonel Neville, that he would serve
no other process on the west side of the Alleghany mountain.
The alternative being immediate death, extorted from the mar-
shal a compliance with this condition, notwithstanding the just
sense of official dignity and the firmness of character which were
witnessed by his conduct throughout the trying scenes he had
experienced.

The insurgents, on the 18th, sent a deputation of two of their
number (one a justice of the peace) to Pittsburgh, to require of
the marshal a surrender of the processes in his possession, inti-
mating that his compliance would satisfy the people and add to
Ms safety; and also to demand of General Neville, in peremptory
terms, the resignation of his office ; threatening, in case of re-
fusal, to attack the place, and take him by force — demands which
both these officers did not hesitate to reject, as alike incompatible
with their honor and their duty.

As it was well ascertained that no protection was to be ex-
pected from the magistrates or inhabitants of Pittsburgh, it be-
came necessary to the safety both of the inspector and the
marshal, to quit that place ; and, as it was known that all the
usual routes to Philadelphia were beset by the insurgents, they
concluded to descend the Ohio, and proceed by a circuitous
route to the seat of government, which they began to put in ex-
ecution on the night of the 19th of July.

Information has also been received of a meeting of a con-
siderable number of persons at a place called Mingo Creek
Meeting-house, in the county of "Washington, to consult about

iET.37.] CABINET PAPERS. 599

the further measures which it might be advisable to pursue ; that
at this meeting a motion was made to approve and agree to sup-
port the proceedings which had taken place, until the excise law
was repealed, and an act of oblivion passed ; but that, instead of
this, it had been agreed that the four western counties of Penn-
sylvania and the neighboring counties of Virginia should be in-
vited to meet in a convention of delegates, on the 14th of the
present month, at Parkinson's, on Mingo Creek, in the county of
Washington, to take into consideration the situation of the west-
ern country, and concert such measures as should appear suited
to the occasion.

It appears, moreover, that, on the 25th of July last, the mail
of the United States, on the road from Pittsburgh to Phila-
delphia, was stopped by two armed men, who cut it open, and
took out all the letters except those contained in one packet.
These armed men, from all the circumstances which occurred,
were manifestly acting on the part of the insurgents.

The declared object of the foregoing proceedings is to ob-
struct the execution and compel a repeal of the laws laying
duties on spirits distilled within the United States, and upon
stills. There is just cause to believe that this is connected with
an indisposition, too general in that quarter, to share in the com-
mon burdens of the community, and with a wish, among some
persons of influence, to embarrass the government. It is af-
firmed, by well-informed persons, to be a fact of notoriety, that
the revenue laws of the State itself have always been either re-
sisted or very defectively complied with in the same quarter.

With the most perfect respect, I have the honor to be, &c.

CABINET OPINION — HAMILTON AND KNOX TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, August 5, 1794.

Sir:

The draft of a proclamation and that of an instruction to the
commissioners being both prepared, we take the liberty to sug-

600 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 37.

gest that we think a meeting to-morrow morning, at such hour

as may be convenient to the President, may be advisable. The

Secretary of State and Attorney-General being out of town, we

cannot consult them, but we will engage the attendance of the

Attorney-General, provisionally, by nine o'clock, and if the

President concludes on the meeting at that hour, he can have

the Secretary of State apprised of it.

We have the honor to be, &c.

A. Hamilton,

H. Knox.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

August 6, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President, and sends him the statement of facts promised. The
date is proposed to be two or three days before the proclamation,
when it was in fact begun. There is a blank to be filled with a
quotation from a former proclamation, which is not immediately
at hand ; but the blank will be filled before it goes to the press.
If the President thinks the publication proper, and will be pleased
to return the inclosed, the original draft being too much obliter-
ated for the purpose, it shall be immediately begun in Dunlap's
paper.

PROCLAMATION.

August 7, 1794.
By the President of the United States of America.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, combinations to defeat the execution of the laws
laying duties upon spirits distilled within the United States, and

jEt. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 601

upon stills, have, from the time of the commencement of those
laws, existed in some of the western parts of Pennsylvania : and
whereas, the said combinations, proceeding in a manner subver-
sive equally of the just authority of government and of the
rights of individuals, have hitherto effected their dangerous and
criminal purpose, by the influence of certain irregular meetings,
whose proceedings have tended to encourage and uphold the
spirit of opposition, by misrepresentations of the laws, calculated
to render them odious, by endeavors to deter those who might
be so disposed from accepting offices under them, through fear
of public resentment, and of injury to person and property, and
to compel those who had accepted such offices, by actual violence
to surrender or forbear the execution of them ; by circulating
vindictive menaces against all those who should otherwise di-
rectly or indirectly aid in the execution of the said laws, or who,
yielding to the dictates of conscience and to a sense of obliga-
tion, should themselves comply therewith, by actually injuring
and destroying the property of persons who were understood to
have so complied; by inflicting cruel and humiliating punish-
ments upon private citizens, for no other cause than that of ap-
pearing to be the friends of the laws ; by intercepting the public
officers on the highways, abusing, assaulting, and otherwise ill-
treating them ; by going to their houses in the night, gaining
admittance by force, taking away their papers, and committing
other outrages ; employing for these unwarrantable purposes the
agency of armed banditti, disguised in such manner as for the
most part to escape discovery : and whereas, the endeavors of
the legislature to obviate objections to the said laws, by lower-
ing the duties, and by other alterations conducive to the conve-
nience of those whom they immediately affect (though they have
given satisfaction in other quarters), and the endeavors of the
executive officers to conciliate a compliance with the laws, by
explanations, by forbearance, and even by particular accommo-
dations, founded on the suggestion of local considerations, have
been disappointed of their effect by the machinations of persons,
whose industry to excite resistance has increased with every ap-
pearance of a disposition among the people to relax in their op-

602 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

position and to acquiesce in the laws, insomuch that many per-
sons in the said western parts of Pennsylvania have at length
been hardy enough to perpetrate acts which I am advised amount
to treason, being overt acts of levying war against the United
States ; the said persons having, on the 16th and 17th of July
last past, proceeded in arms (on the second day amounting to
several hundreds) to the house of John Neville, inspector of the
revenue for the fourth survey of the district of Pennsylvania,
having repeatedly attacked the said house, with the persons
therein, wounding some of them ; having seized David Lenox,
marshal of the district of Pennsylvania, who previous thereto
had been fired upon while in the execution of his duty by a party
of armed men, detaining him for some time prisoner, till, for
the preservation of his life, and the obtaining of his liberty,
he found it necessary to enter into stipulations to forbear the
execution of certain official duties touching processes issuing
out of a court of the United States ; and having finally obliged
the said inspector of the said revenue and the said marshal,
from considerations of personal safety, to fly from that part
of the country, in order, by a circuitous route, to proceed to
the seat of government ; avowing, as the motives of these out-
rageous proceedings, an intention to prevent by force of arms,
the execution of the said laws ; to oblige the said inspector of
the revenue to renounce his said office ; to withstand, by open
violence, the lawful authority of the government of the United
States ; and to compel thereby an alteration in the measures of
the legislature, and a repeal of the laws aforesaid : and whereas,
by a law of the United States, entitled " An act to provide for
calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, sup-
press insurrections, and repel invasions," it is enacted, "that,
whenever the laws of the United States shall be opposed, or the
execution thereof obstructed, in any State, by combinations too
powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial pro-
ceedings, or by the powers vested in the marshals by that act,
the same being notified by an associate justice or the district
judge, it shall be lawful for the President of the United States to
call forth the militia of such State to suppress such combinations,

^t. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 603

and to cause the laws to be duly executed. And if the militia
of a State where such combinations may happen shall refuse, or
be insufficient, to suppress the same, it shall be lawful for the
President, if the legislature of the United States shall not be in
session, to call forth and employ such numbers of the militia of
any other State or States most convenient thereto, as may be
necessary ; and the use of the militia, so to be called forth,
may be continued, if necessary, ' until the expiration of thirty
days after the commencement of the ensuing session : provided
always, that, whenever it may be necessary in the judgment of
the President, to use the military force hereby directed to be
called forth, the President shall forthwith, and previous thereto,
by proclamation, command such insurgents to disperse and re-
tire peaceably to their respective abodes within a limited time :"
And, whereas, James Wilson, an associate justice, on the 4th in-
stant, by writing under his hand, did, from evidence which had
been laid before him, notify to me that, "in the counties of
Washington and Alleghany, in Pennsylvania, laws of the United
States are opposed, and the execution thereof obstructed, by
combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary
course of judicial proceedings, or by the powers vested in the
marshal of that district:" And whereas, it is in my judgment
necessary, under the circumstances of the case, to take measures
for calling forth the militia in order to suppress the combinations
aforesaid, and to cause the laws to be duly executed, and I have
accordingly determined so to do, feeling the deepest regret for
the occasion, but withal the most solemn conviction that the es-
sential interests of the Union demand it, that the very existence
of government and the fundamental principles of social order
are materially involved in the issue, and that the patriotism and
firmness of all good citizens are seriously called upon, as occa-
sions may require, to aid in the effectual suppression of so fatal
a spirit.

Wherefore, and in pursuance of the proviso above recited, I,
George Washington, President of the United States, do hereby
command all persons, being insurgents as aforesaid, and all others
whom it may concern, on or before the first day of September

604 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

next, to disperse and retire peaceably to their respective abodes.
And I do moreover warn all persons whomsoever, against aiding,
abetting, or comforting the perpetrators of the aforesaid treasona-
ble acts ; and do require all officers and other citizens, according
to their respective duties, and the laws of the land, to exert their
utmost endeavors to prevent and suppress such dangerous pro-
ceedings.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the United
States of America to be affixed to these presents, and signed the
same with my hand.

Done at the city of Philadelphia, the seventh day of August,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety four, and of the
[L. S.] independence of the United States of America the nine-
teenth.

Geo. Washington.

By the President,

Edmund Randolph.

END OF VOL. IV.


===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 5) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander05hami/worksofalexander05hami_djvu.txt

1 i^^

K NYPU RESEARCH LIBRARIES H

Hii

^^H

■ i.ir.- .-^-. 1,1,1,1 r

'7, \a .

'^•««*yA''*'

\ \ \ \

THE WOKKS

ALEXANDER HAMILTON;

COMPRISING

HIS CORRESPONDENCE,

AND
I

HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WRITINGS,

EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST, ^"

CIVIL AND MILITARY.

PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANtJSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

BY ORDER OF

THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.

EDITED BY

JOHN a HAMILTON,

AUTHOR OF ■THE LJFE OF HAMILTON.''

NEW-YORK :
JOHN F. TROW, PRINTER, 49, 51 & 53 ANN-STREET.

M.DCCC.LI.

BB«nBO«. Ito- i 9 i i if

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850, by

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern

District of New- York.

iET. 37.J

CABINET PAPERS.

SECRETARY OF STATE TO MIFFLIN.
Draft by Hamilton.

Philadelphia, August 7th, 1794.

Sir:

The President of the United States has directed me to acknow-
ledge the receipt of your letter of the 5th instant, and to commu-
nicate to you the following reply :

In requesting an interview with you on the subject of the
recent disturbances in the western parts of Pennsylvania, the
President, besides the desire of manifesting a respectful attention
to the chief magistrate of a State immediately aifected, was influ-
enced by the hopes that a free conference, guided by a united
and comprehensive view of the Constitutions of the United States
and of Pennsylvania, and of the respective institutions, authori-
ties, rights, and duties of the two governments, would have as-
sisted him in forming more precise ideas of the nature of the
co-operation which could be established between them, and a bet-
ter judgment of the plan which it might be advisable for him to
pursue, in the execution of his trust in so important and delicate
a conjuncture. This having been his object, it is matter of some
regret, that the course which has been suggested by you, as pro-
per to be pursued, seems to have contemplated Pennsylvania in

E 1

2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

a light too separate and unconnected. The propriety of that
course, in most, if not in all respects, would be susceptible of lit-
tle question if there were no federal government, federal laws,
federal judiciary, or federal officers ; if important laws of the
United States, by a series of violent, as well as of artful expe-
dients, had not been frustrated in their execution for more than
three years ; if officers immediately charged with that execution,
after suffering much and repeated insult, abuse, personal ill-treat-
ment, and the destruction of property, had not been compelled
for safety to fly the places of their residences, and the scenes of
their official duties ; if the service of the processes of a court of
the United States had not been resisted ; the marshal of the dis-
trict made and detained for some time a prisoner, and compelled
for safety also to abandon the performance of his duty, and re-
turn by a circuitous route to the seat of government ; if, in fine,
a judge of the United States had not in due form of law notified
to the President, " that in the counties of Washington and Al-
leghany, in Pennsylvania, laws of the United States are opposed,
and the execution thereof obstructed by combinations too pow-
erful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceed-
ings, or by the powers vested in the marshal of that district." It
is true, your excellency has remarked, that in the plan suggested
you have only spoken as the executive magistrate of Pennsyl-
vania, charged with a general superintendence and care, that the
laws of the commonwealth be fully executed, leaving it impli-
citly to the judgment of the President to choose, on such evi-
dence as he approves, the measures for discharging the analogous
trust which is confided to him in relation to the laws of the
Union. But it is impossible not to think that the current of the
observations in your letter, especially as to the consequences
which may result from the employment of coercive measures,
previous to the preliminary course which is indicated in it, may
be construed to imply a virtual disapprobation of that plan of
conduct, on the part of the general government, in the actual
stage of its affiiirs, which you acknowledge would be proper on
the part of the government of Pennsylvania, if arrived at a simi-
lar stage. Let it be assumed here (to be more particularly shown

Mt. 37.] CABINETPAPERS. 3

hereafter), that the government of the United States is now at
that point, where it is admitted, if the government of Pennsyl-
vania was, the employment of force by its authority would be
justifiable ; and let the following extracts be consulted for the
truth of the inference which has been just expressed. " Will not
the resort to force, inflame and cement the existing opposition ?
Will it not associate in a common resistance those who have
hitherto peaceably, as well as those who have riotously, expressed
their abhorrence of the excise ? Will it not collect and combine
every latent principle of discontent, arising from the supposed
oppressive operations of the federal judiciary, the obstruction of
the western navigation, and a variety of other local sources?
May not the magnitude of the opposition on the part of the ill-
disposed, or the dissatisfaction of a premature resort to arms on the
part of the well-disposed citizens of the State, eventually involve
the necessity of employing the militia of other States ? And the
accumulation of discontent which the jealousy engendered by
that movement may produce, who can calculate, or who will be
able to avert?"

These important questions naturally give birth to the follow-
ing serious reflections. The issues of human affairs are in the
hands of Providence. Those intrusted with them in society, have
no other sure guide than the sincere and faithful discharge of
their duty, according to the best of their judgments. In emer-
gencies, great and difficult, not to act with an energy propor-
tioned to their magnitude and pressure, is as dangerous as any
other conceivable course. In the present case, not to exert the
means which the laws prescribe for effectuating their own execu-
tion, would be to sacrifice those laws, and with them the Consti-
tution, the Government, the principles of social order, and the
bulwarks of private right and security. What worse can hap-
pen from the exertion of these means ?

If, as cannot be doubted, the great body of the citizens of the
United States are attached to the Constitution, which they have
established for the management of their common concerns — if
they are resolved to support their own authority in that of the
constitutional laws, against disorderly and violent combinations

4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

of comparatively small portions of the community — if they are
determined to protect each other in the enjoyment of security to
person and property — if they are decided to preserve the cha-
racter of republican government, by evincing that it has adequate
resources for maintaining the public order — if they are persuaded
that their safety and their welfare are materially connected with
the preservation of the Union, and consequently of a government
adequate to its exigencies ; in fine, if they are disposed to con-
tinue that state of respectability and prosperity which is now de-
servedly the admiration of mankind — the enterprise to be
accomplished, should a resort to force prove inevitable, though
disagreeable and painful, cannot be arduous or alarming.

If, in addition to these dispositions in the community at large,
the officers of the governments of the respective States, feeling
it to be not only a patriotic but a constitutional duty (inculcated
by the oath enjoined upon all the officers of a State, legislative,
executive, and judicial), to support in their several stations the
Constitution of the United States, shall be disposed, as occasion
may require (a thing as little to be doubted as the former), with
sincerity and good faith to co-operate with the government of the
United States, to second with all their influence and weight its
legal and necessary measures, by a legal and substantial concert,
then the enterprise to be accomplished can hardly even be deemed
difficult.

But if, contrary to the anticipations which are entertained of
these favorable dispositions, the great body of the people should
be found indifferent to the preservation of the government of the
Union, or insensible to the necessity of vigorous exertions to
repel the danger which threatens their most important interests,
or, if an unwillingness to encounter partial inconveniences, should
interfere with the discharge of what they owe to their permanent
welfare ; — or if, either yielding to the suggestions of particular
prejudices, or misled by the arts which may be employed to infuse
jealousy and discontent, they should suffer their zeal for the
support of public order to be relaxed by an unfavorable opinion
of the merits and tendency of the measures which may be
adopted ; if above all it were possible that any of the State gov-

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 5

ernments should, instead of prompting tlie exertions of the
citizens, assist directly or indirectly in damping their ardor by
giving a wrong bias to their judgment — or by disseminating dis-
satisfaction with the proceedings of the general government — or
should counteract the success of those proceedings by any sinister
influence whatever — then, indeed, no one can calculate, or may
be able to avert the fatal evils with which such a state of things
would be pregnant. Then, indeed, the foundations of our politi-
cal happiness may be deeply shaken, if not altogether overturned.

The President, however, can suppose none of these things.
He cherishes an unqualified confidence in the virtue and good
sense of the people, in the integrity and patriotism of the officers
of the State governments, and he counts absolutely on the same
affectionate support, which he has experienced upon all former
occasions, and which he is conscious that the goodness of his
intentions now, not less than heretofore, merits.

It has been promised to show more particularly hereafter, that
the government of the United States is now at that point where,
it is confessed, if the State government was, the employment of
force on its part would be justifiable. This promise remains to
be fulfilled.

The facts already noted establish the conclusion ; but to ren-
der it palpable, it will be of use to apply them to the positions
which 3^our excellency has been pleased to lay down.

You admit, that as the offences committed respect the State,
the military power of the government ought to be employed,
when its judiciary authority, after a fair experiment, had proved
incompetent to enforce obedience or to punish infractions of the
law ; that if the strength and audacity of a lawless combination
shall baffle and destroy the efforts of the judiciary authority, to
recover a penalty or inflict a punishment, that authority may
constitutionally claim the auxiliary intervention of the military
power— that in the last resort, at the requisition and as an auxiliary
of the civil authority, the military force of the State would be
called forth. And you declare that the circumstances of the
case evidently require a firm and energetic conduct on the part,
both of the State and General Government.

6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 37.

For more than tliree years, as already observed, certain laws
of the United States have been obstructed in their execution by
disorderly combinations. Not only officers, whose immediate
duty it was to carry them into eifect, have suffered violent per-
sonal outrage and injury, and destruction of property, at differ-
ent times, but similar persecution has been extended to private
citizens, who have aided, countenanced, or only complied with
the laws. The violences committed have been so frequent, and
such in their degree as to have been matters of general notoriety
and alarm — and it may be added that they have been abun-
dantly within the knowledge and under the notice of the judges
and magistrates of Pennsylvania, of superior as well as inferior
jurisdiction. If in particular instances they have been punished
by the exertions of the magistrates, it is at least certain that their
efforts have been in the main ineffectual. The spirit has con-
tinued, and, with some intervals of relaxation, has been progres-
sive, manifesting itself in reiterated excesses. The judiciary
authority of the United States has also, prior to the attempt
which preceded the late crisis, made some fruitless efforts. Un-
der a former marshal, an officer sent to execute process was
deterred from it by the manifest danger of proceeding. These
particulars serve to explain the extent, obstinacy and inveteracy
of the evil.

But the facts which immediately decide the complexion of
the existing crisis are these : Numerous delinquencies existed
with regard to a compliance with the laws laying duties on
spirits distilled within the United States and upon stills^ An
armed banditti, in disguise, had recently gone to the house of an
officer of the revenue, in the night, attacked it, broken open the
doors, and, by menaces of instant death, enforced by pistols pre-
sented at him, had compelled a surrender of his commission and
books of office. Cotemporary acts of violence had been perpe-
trated in other quarters. Processes issued out of a court of the
United States, to recover the penalties incident to a non-compli-
ance with the laws, and to bring to punishment the violent in-
fractors of them, in the above mentioned case, against two of
whom indictments had been found. The marshal of the dis-

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS, 7

trict went in person to execute tliese processes. In the course
of his duty he was actually fired upon, on the high road, by
a body of armed men. Shortly after, other bodies of armed
men (in the last instance amounting to several hundred per-
sons) repeatedly attacked the house of the inspector of the
revenue, with the declared intention of compelling him to re-
nounce his office, and of obstructing the execution of the laws.
One of these bodies of armed men made prisoner the marshal of
the district, put him in jeopardy of his life, and did not release
him till, for safety and to obtain his liberty, he engaged to for-
bear the further execution of the processes with which he was
charged. In consequence of further requisitions and menaces
of the insurgents, the marshal, together with the inspector
of the revenue, have been since under the necessity of flying,
secretly and by a circuitous route, from the scene of these trans-
actions, towards the seat of government. An associate justice,
pursuant to the provisions of the laws for that purpose, has, in
the manner already stated, officially notified the President of the
existence of combinations, in two of the counties of this State,
to obstruct the execution of the laws, too powerful to be sup-
pressed by the judiciary authority, or by the powers of the
marshal.

Thus, then, is it unequivocally and in due form ascertained,
in reference to the government of the United States, that the
judiciary authority, after a fair and fall experiment, has proved
incompetent to enforce obedience to, or to punish infractions of,
the laws ; that the strength and audacity of certain lawless com-
binations have baffled and destroyed the efforts of the judiciary
authority to recover j)enalties or inflict punishment; and that
this authority, by a regular notification of this state of things,
has, in the last resort, as an auxiliary of the civil authority,
claimed the intervention of the military power of the United
States. It results, from these facts, that the case exists when —
according to the positions advanced by your excellency, in refer-
ence to the State government — when the military power may,
with due regard to all the requisite cautions, be rightfully inter-
posed ; and that the interposition of this power is called for, not

8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

only by principles of a firm and energetic conduct on the part of
the general government, but by the indispensable duty which
the Constitution and the laws prescribe to the Executive of the
United States. In this conclusion, your excellenc3'-'s discern-
ment, on mature reflection, cannot, it is presumed, fail to acqui-
esce ; nor can it refuse its concurrence in the opinion which
the President entertains, that he may reasonably expect, when
called for, the zealous co-operation of the militia of Pennsylva-
nia ; that as citizens, friends to law and order, they may com-
ply with the call, without any thing that can properly be de-
nominated "a passive obedience to the mandates of govern-
ment;" and that, as freemen, judging rightly of the cause and
nature of the service proposed to them, they will feel them-
selves under the most sacred of obligations to accept and to per-
form it with alacrity. The theory of our political institutions
knows no difference between the obligations of our citizens, in
such a case, whether it relate to the government of this Union
or of a State ; and it is hoped and confided, that a difference will
be as little known to their affections or opinions.

Your excellency, it is also presumed, will as little doubt, on
the like mature reflection, that in such a case the President
could not, without an abdication of the undoubted rights and
authorities of the United States, and of his duty, postpone the
measures for which the laws of the United States provide, to a
previous experiment of the plan, which is delineated in your
letter.

The people of the United States have established a govern-
ment for the management of their general interests ; they have
instituted executive organs for administering that government ;
and their representatives have established the rules by which
these organs are to act. When their authority in that of their
government is attacked, by lawless combinations of the citizens
of part of a State, they could never be expected to approve that
the care of vindicating their authority, of enforcing their laws,
should be transferred from the ofiicers of their own government
to those of a State, and this to wait the issue of a process so un-
determinate in its duration as that which it is proposed to pur-

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 9

sue ; compreliending a further and full experiment of tlie judici-
ary authority of the State, a proclamation "to declare the
sentiments of its government, announce a determination to
prosecute and punish offenders, and to exhort the citizens at
large to pursue a peaceable and patriotic conduct ;" the sending
of commissioners " to address those who have embarked in the
present combinations upon the lawless nature and ruinous tenden-
cy of their proceedings ; to inculcate the necessity of an immediate
return to the duty which they owe their country ; and to prom-
ise, as far as the State is concerned, forgiveness of their past
transactions, upon receiving a satisfactory assurance that, in
future, they will submit to the laws ;" and, finally, a call of the
legislature of Pennsylvania, " that the ultimate means of subdu-
ing the spirit of insurrection, and of restoring tranquillity and
order, may be prescribed by their wisdom and authority."

If there were no other objection to a transfer of this kind, the
very important difference which is supposed to exist in the na-
ture and consequences of the offences that have been committed,
in the contemplation of the laws of the United States and those
of Pennsylvania, would alone be a very serious obstacle. The
paramount considerations which forbid an acquiescence in this
course of proceeding, render it unnecessary to discuss the proba-
bility of its success ; else it might have been proper to test the
considerations which have been mentioned as a ground of hope,
by the inquiry, what was the precise extent of the success of
past experiments, and especially whether the execution of the
revenue laws of Pennsylvania within the scene in question was
truly and effectually accomplished by them, or whether they did
not rather terminate in a tacit compromise, by which appear-
ances only were saved?

You are already, sir, advised that the President, yielding to the
impressions which have been stated, has determined to take mea-
sures for calHng forth the militia; and that these measures con-
template the assembling of a body of between twelve and thirteen
thousand men, from Pennsylvania and the neighboring States of
Virginia, Maryland, and New Jersey. The recourse thus early to
the militia of the neighboring States, prevails from a probability

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

of tlie insufficiency of that of Pennsylvania alone to accomplish
the object ; your excellency having, in your conference with the
President, confirmed the conclusion which was deducible from
the known local and other circumstances of the State, by the
frank and express declaration which you made of your convic-
tion of that insufficiency in reference to the number which could
be expected to be drawn forth for the purpose.

But, while the President has conceived himself to be under
an indispensable obligation to prepare for that eventual resort, he
has still consulted the sentiment of regret which he expressed to
you, at the possible necessity of an appeal to arms ; and to avert
it, if practicable, as well as to manifest his attention to the prin-
ciple, that "a firm and energetic conduct does not preclude the
exercise of a prudent and humane policy," he has (as you have
been also advised) concluded upon the measure of sending him-
self commissioners to the discontented counties, to make one
more experiment of a conciliatory appeal to the reason, virtue
and patriotism of their inhabitants ; and has also signified to you
how agreeable would be to him your co-operation in the same
expedient, which you have been pleased to afford. It can
scarcely be requisite to add, that there is nothing he has more at
heart than that the issue of this experiment, by establishing the
authority of the laws, may preclude the always calamitous neces-
sity of an appeal to arms. It would plant a thorn in the re-
mainder of his path through life, to have been obliged to employ
force against fellow-citizens, for giving solidity and permanency
to blessings which it has been his greatest happiness to co-operate
with them in procuring for a much-loved country.

The President receives with much pleasure the assurance you
have repeated to him, that whatever requisition he may make,
whatever duty he may impose, in pursuance of his constitutional
and legal powers, will, on your part, be promptly undertaken and
faithfully discharged ; and acknowledging, as an earnest of this,
and even more, the measures of co-operation which you are pur-
suing, he assures you, in return, that he relies fully on the most
cordial aid and support from you in every way which the Con-
stitutions of the United States and of Pennsylvania shall au-
thorize, and present or future exigencies may require.

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 11

And he requests that you will construe, with a reference to
this assurance of his confidence, whatever remarks may have
been made in the course of this reply to your letter, if it shall
have happened that any of them have erred from a misconcep-
tion of the sentiments and views which you may have meant to
communicate.

With perfect respect and esteem, I have the honer to be, &c.,

Edmund Eandolph,

Secretary of State.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

August 12, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President, and sends him two letters which were received last
night from Pittsburgh.

Would it not be advisable to put the garrison of Fort Frank-
lin in the power of Major Butler, so that if he deems it advisable
he may draw a part of it to his aid ?

An attack from the Indians appears at present improbable,
and an attack from the insurgents probable enough.

The bearer of the letters waits orders to return. Will the
President suggest any thing ?

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Germantown, August 12, 1794.
To the Secretary of the Treasury {acting for the Secretary of War).

Your letter of the 12th did not get to my hands until my
return from Philadelphia about an hour ago.

The letters from Majors Butler and Baif, make it necessary
in my opinion, to vest discretionary orders with the former, to

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

reinforce the garrison at Pittsburgh with as many men from Fort

Franklin, as can be drawn from it without hazarding that post

too much ; provided the hazard (on account of the insurgents)

may not be too great for the proposed advantage of the measure.

I sent you through the Secretary of State, two letters (of the

14th and 16th ult.) with inclosures from Gov. Blount, which

you will consider and report on.

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO CRA-IG.

Philadelphia, August 13, 1794.
Sie::

In consequence of an arrangement of the Secretary of "War,
who is absent, your letter of the 8d instant has been communi-
cated to me. It is satisfactory to receive exact intelligence of
the movements of the insurgents. Your care of the interest con-
fided to you is in every event depended upon according to cir-
cumstances. The keeping the arms and stores out of the hands
of the insurgents, is a matter of great importance. It is lioped
that you loill personally^ in the worst issue of things^ find safety in the
fort. The friends of government may depend that it will not be
wanting to its duty and interest upon this occasion. And can
there be any doubt of the sufficiency of its means ?
With much esteem, I am, &c.,

Alexander Hamilton,

For the Secretary at War.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

London, 16th August, 1794,

Dear Sir :

I am happy to find, by a New- York paper, that the result of
the late inquiry into your official conduct, is perfectly consistent

JEt. 37.]

CABINflT PAPERS. 13

with the expectations of your friends. It is there represented as
being voluminous, and in a variety of respects interesting. Be
so good as to send me a copy. I wrote to you lately a confiden-
tial letter, under cover to the President ; my dispatches to Mr.
Kandolph, were under the same cover. I presumed that, if the
vessel should be examined by some rude privateer, more re-
spect would be paid to a letter directed to the President, than to
others.

Nothing very important has since occurred ; things are in a
train that looks promising ; but the issue is of course uncertain.
The resolutions from Kentucky and North Carolina are here,
and make disagreeable impressions. Incivilities as often produce
resentment as injuries do.

Affairs in Europe wear a serious aspect. The French conti-
nue successful, and the English decided. It is thought the Dutch
will resign to their fate without very strenuous opposition. Ge-
neva is undergoing another revolution. News of Robespierre's
violent death has arrived, and gains credit. If true, the import-
ance of it to France or the allies cannot yet be calculated.

Events have hitherto been more common than influential.

Yours sincerely.

HAMILTON TO "WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Aug. 16, 1794.

Sir:

It appears probable that advantages will result from giving
to the citizens at large information on the subject of the disturb-
ances which exist in the western part of Pennsylvania.

With this view, if no objection to the measure should occur
to you, I would cause a publication to be made of the report
which I had the honor to address to you, dated the 5th instant.
"With the most perfect respect, &c.

14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 37.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, Aug. 18, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury submits to the President the
draft of a letter on the subject of the proscribed privateers.
Would it not be advisable to communicate the matter to the
French Minister, and to request his co-operation in causing our
ports to be no longer affronted by those vessels ?

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

August 21, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects to the
President. The letter written to the President on the 16th, res-
pecting the publication of the report of the 5th, was written at
the Secretary of State's office, where Mr. H. expected a copy of
it had been taken previous to its delivery. But when Mr. H.
sent to inquire for a copy, in order to the publication of it, he
found none had been taken ; which, it being then too late to ob-
tain a copy in time from the President, left him the dilemma,
either of suftering the report to go out without the letters, or to
draft one as a substitute for that which had been sent. The latter
appeared to him to be most likely to be agreeable to the President,
and he drew one accordingly, a copy of which appears in Dunlap's
paper of to-day, corresponding with the inclosed original, which
the President will find perfectly the same in substance with the
former.

Another circumstance may require explanation. The letters
follow, instead of preceding the report. This happened from
the report having been immediately sent, to promote dispatch,
and the President's answer not having been received till the day
following, so that it went to the jorinter too late for insertion in
the first instance without too great a derangement of his types.

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 15

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Germantown, August 21, 1794.

Sir:

To your note of this date, in behalf of the Department of
War, asking my opinion or direction respecting the advisableness
of sending, in the existing circumstances of the western counties
of Pennsylvania, two months' pay to the army under the imme-
diate orders of General Wayne, I answer, that under my present
impressions the measure had better be delayed, at least until the
commissioners, who were sent into those counties, make their
report. It certainly would, from all the information that has
been received from that quarter, be too hazardous to send a sum
of money by the way of Pittsburgh, through counties that are in
open rebellion; and besides, the circuitousness of the route
through what is called the Wilderness, and the length of time
required to send it by a messenger that way, there would be, in
my opinion, no small risk in the attempt. But as I shall be in
the city to-morrow, I will converse with you on the subject
I am, &c.

HAMILTON TO CRAIG.

War Department, Aug. 25, ITQ-i.

Sir:

Your letter of the 17th instant to the Secretary of War has
been received and duly attended to.

The suggestions respecting additional measures of defence
have been considered ; but the danger of the means falling into
the hands of the insurgents appears at present an objection.

It is hoped that every thing at Pittsburgh, or Avhich shall
come there, not necessary to the post itself, has been forwarded
down the river, and will continue to be so, as long and as fast as

16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 31

it can be done with safety. The friends of government at Pitts-
burgh ought to rally their confidence, and if necessary, manifest
it by acts. They cannot surely doubt the power of the United
States to uphold the authority of the laws ; and they may be as-
sured, that the necessity of doing it, towards preserving the very
existence of government, so directly attacked, will dictate and
produce a most vigorous and persevering effort, in which the
known good sense and love of order of the quiet body of the
people, and all the information hitherto received of their senti-
ments and feelings with regard to the present emergency, author-
ize a full expectation of their hearty co-operation.

SECEETABY OF STATE TO MIFFLIN.
Draft by Hamilton.

Philadelphia, August 30th, 1794.

Sie:

I am directed by the President to acknowledge the receipt on
the 17th of your excellency's letter, dated the 12th instant.

The President feels with you the force of the motives which
render undesirable an extension of correspondence on the subject
in question. But the case being truly one of great importanc
and delicacy, these motives must yield in a degree to the propriety
and utility of giving precision to every part of the transaction,
and guarding effectually against ultimate misapprehension.

To this end it is deemed advisable, in the first place, to state
some facts, which either do not appear, or are conceived not to
have assumed an accurate shape in your excellency's letter.
They are these :

1. You were informed at the conference that all the informa-
tion which had been received had been laid before an associate
justice, in order that he might consider and determine whether
such a case as is contemplated by the second section of the actj

iET.37.] CABINET PAPERS. 17

which provides for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of
the Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions, had oc-
curred ; that is, whether combinations existed too powerful to be
suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, or by
the powers vested in the marshal by that act ; in which case the
President is authorized to call forth the militia to suppress the
combinations and to cause the laws to be duly executed.

2. The idea of a preliminary proceeding by you was pointed
to an eventual co-operation with the Executive of the United
States, in such plan as, upon mature deliberation, should be
deemed advisable, in conformity with the laws of the Union.
The inquiry was particularly directed towards the possibility of
some previous accessory step in relation to the militia, to expedite
the calling them forth if an acceleration should be judged expe-
dient and proper, and if any delay on the score of evidence
should attend the notification from a judge, which the laws make
the condition of the power of the President to require the aid of
the militia, and turned more especially upon the point whether
the law of Pennsylvania, of the 22d September, 1783, was or
was not still in force. The question empha,tically was : Has the
Executive of Pennsylvania power to put the militia in motion,
previous to a requisition from the President, under the laws of
the Union, if it shall be thought advisable so to do ? Indeed, it
seems to be admitted by one part of your letter, that the prelimi-
nary measure contemplated did turn on this question, and with
,^ particular eye to the authority and existence of the act just
mentioned,

3. The information contained in the papers, read at the con-
ference, besides the violence offered to the marshal, while in
company with the inspector of the revenue, established that the
marshal had been afterwards made prisoner by the insurgents,
put in jeopardy of his life, had been obliged to obtain safety and
liberty by a promise, guaranteed by Colonel Presby Neville, that
he would serve no other process on the west side of the Allegany
mountains ; that, in addition to this, a deputation of the insur-
gents had gone to Pittsburgh, to demand of the marshal a surren-
der of the processes in his possession, under the intimation that

E 2

18 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

it would satisfy the people and add to his safety; which necessarily
implied that he would be in danger of further violence without
such a surrender. That under the influence of this menace, he
had found it necessary to seek security by taking, secretly, and in
the night, a circuitous route.

This recapitulation is not made to invalidate the explanation
offered in your last letter of the view of the subject, which you
assert to have led to the suggestions contained in your first, and
of the sense which you wish to be received as that of the obser-
vations accompanying those suggestions. It is intended solely
to manifest that it was natural for the President to regard your
communication of the 5th instant, in the light under which it is
presented in the reply to it.

For having informed you that the matter was before an asso-
ciate justice, with a view to the law of the United States, which
has been mentioned, and having pointed out what was said
respecting a preliminary proceeding on your part to a call of the
militia under the authority of a state law, by anticipation of a
requisition from the general government, and in co-operation
with an eventual plan to be founded upon the laws of the Union,
it was not natural to expect that you would have presented a
plan of conduct entirely on the basis of the State government,
even to the extent of resorting to the legislature of Pennsylva-
nia, after its judiciary had proved incompetent "to prescribe by
their wisdom and authority the means of subduing the spirit of
insurrection and of restoring tranquillity and order," a plan which,
being incompatible with the course marked out in the laws of
the United States, evidently could not have been acceded to
without a suspension, for along and indefinite period, of the move-
ments of the federal Executive pursuant to those laws. The
repugnancy and incompatibility of the two modes of proceeding
at the same time cannot, it is presumed, be made a question.

Was it extraordinary, then, that the plan suggested should
have been unexpected, and that it should even have been thought
liable to the observation of having contemplated Pennsylvania
in a light too separate and unconnected ?

The propriety of the remark, " that it was impossible not to

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 19

think that the current of the observations in your letter might
be construed to imply a virtual disapprobation of that plan of
conduct on the part of the government of Pennsylvania, if arrived
at a similar stage," must be referred to the general tenor and
complexion of those observations, and to the inference they were
naturally calculated to inculcate. If this inference was, that
under the known circumstances of the case, the employment of
force to suppress the insurrection was improper, without a long
train of preparatory expedients ; and if, in fact, the government
of the United States (which has not been controverted) was at
that point where it was admitted that the government of Penn-
sylvania being arrived the resort to force on its part would be
proper, the impression which was made could not have been
effaced by the consideration that the forms of referring what
concerned the government of the Union to the judgment of its
own Executive, were carefully observed. There was no diffi-
culty in reconciling the intimation of an opinion unfavorable to
a particular course of proceeding with an explicit reference of
the subject (officially speaking) to the judgment of the officer
charged by the Constitution to decide, and with a sincere recog-
nition of the subjection of the individual authority of the State
to the national jurisdiction of the Union.

The disavowal by your excellency of an intention to sanc-
tion the inference, which was drawn, renders what has been said
a mere explanation of the cause of that inference, and of the im-
pressions which it at first made.

It would be foreign to the object of this letter to discuss the
various observations, which have been adduced to obviate a mis-
apprehension of your views, and to maintain the propriety of
the course pursued in your first communication. It is far more
pleasing to the President to understand you in the sense you de-
sire, and to conclude that no opinion has been indicated by you
inconsistent with that which he has entertained of the state of'
things and of his duty in relation to it. And he remarks, with
satisfaction, the effect which subsequent information is supposed
to be calculated to produce favoring an approximation of sen-
timents.

20 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

But there are a few miscellaneous points, wliicb, more efFec-
tually to prevent misconceptions any where, seem to demand a
onrsory notice.

You observe that the President had already determined to ex-
ercise his legal powers in drafting a competent force of the mili-
tia. At the point of time to which you are understood to refer,
namely, that of the conference, the President had no legal power
to call forth the militia. No judge had yet pronounced that a
case justifying the exercise of that power existed. You must be
sensible, sir, that all idea of your calling out the militia by your
authority, was referred to a state of things antecedent to the lawful
capacity of the President to do it by his own authority ; and when
he had once determined upon the call, pursuant to his legal pow-
ers, it were absurd to have proposed to you a separate and uncon-
nected call. How, too, it might be asked, could such a determi-
nation, if it had been made, and was known to you, have com-
ported with the plan suggested in your letter, which presupposes
that the employment of force had not already been determined
upon ?

This passage of your letter is, therefore, considered to mean
only that the President had manifested an opinion predicated
upon the event of such a notification from a judge as the law
prescribes, that the nature of the case was such as would proba-
b)ly require the employment of force. You will also, it is be-
lieved, recollect that he had not at the time finally determined
upon any thing, and that the conference ended with referring
the whole subject to further consideration.

You say, that if you had undertaken not only to comply
promptly with the President's requisition, but to embody a dis-
tinct corps for the same service, a useless expense would have
been incurred by the State, an unnecessary burden would have
been imposed on the citizens, and embarrassment and confusion
would probably have been introduced instead of system and co-
operation. But hath were never expected. Your embodying the
militia independent of a requisition from the President, was
never thought of, except as a preliminary and auxiliary step.
Had it taken place when the requisition came, the corps em-

^T. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 21

bodied would have been readj towards a compliance with it, and
no one of the inconveniences suggested could possibly have arisen.

You say, in another place, that you " were called upon to act,
not in conformity to a positive law, but in compliance with the
duty which is supposed to result from the nature and constitu-
tion of the executive office." It is conceived that it would have
been more correct to have said, " you were called upon to be con-
sulted whether you had power in the given case to call forth
the militia, without a previous requisition from the general gov-
ernment." The supposition that you might possess this power
was referred to a law of Pennsylvania, which appeared, on ex-
amination, to have been repealed. A gentleman who accompa-
nied you thought that the power, after a due notification of the
incompetency of the judiciary, might be deduced from the nature
and constitution of the executive office.

It has appeared to your excellency fit and expedient to ani-
madvert upon the nature of the evidence produced at the confer-
ence, and to express some doubts which had occurred to your
mind concerning it.

As the laws of the United States have referred the evidence
in such cases to the judgment of a district judge, or associate
justice, and, foreseeing that circumstances so peculiar might arise
as to render rules relating to the ordinary and peaceable state of
society inapplicable, have forborne to prescribe any, leaving it
to the understanding and conscience of the judge, upon his re-
sponsibility, to pronounce what kind and degree of evidence
should suffice, the President would not sanction a discussion of
the standard or measure by which evidence in those cases ought
to be governed. He would restrain himself by the reflection
that this appertains to the province of another, and that he might
rely as a guide upon the decision which should be made by the
proper organ of the laws for that purpose.

But it may be no deviation from this rule to notice to you
that the facts stated in the beginning of this letter, under the
third head, appear to have been overlooked in your survey of
the evidence, while they seem to be far from immaterial to a just
estimate of it.

22 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 37.

You remark that " when you found that the marshal had,
without molestation, executed his office in the county of Fayette,
that he never was insulted or opposed till he acted in company
with General Neville, and that the virulence of the rioters was
directly manifested against the person and property of the latter
gentleman, and only incidentally against the person of the for-
mer, you thought there was ground yet to suppose that a spirit
of opposition to the officers employed under the excise law, and
not a spirit of opposition to the officers employed in the administration
of justice^ was the immediate source of the outrages which are
deprecated."

It is natural to inquire how this supposition could consist
with the additional facts which appeared by the same evidence,
namely, that the marshal having been afterwards made prisoner
by the rioters, had been compelled, for obtaining safety and
liberty, to promise to execute no more processes within the dis-
contented scene ; and that subsequently again to this, in conse-
quence of a deputation of the rioters deliberately sent to demand
a surrender of the processes in his possession, enforced by a
threat, he had found it necessary to seek security in withdrawing
by a secret and circuitous route; did not these circumstances
unequivocally denote that officers employed in the administration
of justice were as much objects of opposition as those employed
in the execution of the particular laws, and that the rioters were
at least consistent in their plan ?

It must needs be, that these facts escaped your excellency's
attention, else they are too material to have been omit-
ted in your review of the evidence, and too conclusive not
to have set aside the supposition which you entertained, and
which seemed to have had so great a share in your general
view of the subject.

There remains only one point on which your excellency will
be longer detained — a point, indeed, of great importance, and
consequently demands serious and careful reflection. It is the
opinion you so emphatically express, that the mere dispersion of
the insurgents is the sole object for which the militia can be

JEt. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 23

called out, or kept in service after they may liave been called
out.

The President reserves to the last moment the consideration
and decision of this point.

But there are arguments weighing heavily against the opinion
you have expressed, which, in the mean time, are offered to your
candid consideration.

The Constitution of the United States (article 1, section 8)
empowers Congress " to provide for calling forth the militia to
execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel
invasions," evidently from the wording and distribution of the
sentence, contemplating the execution of the laws of the Union,
as a thing distinct from the suppression of insurrections.

The act of May 2, 1792, for carrying the provision of the
Constitution into effect, adopts for its title the very words of the
Constitution, being " An act to provide for calling forth the
militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections,
and repel invasions," continuing the constitutional distinction.

The first section of the act provides for the cases of invasion,
and of insurrection, confining the latter to the case of insurrec-
tion against the government of a State. The second section pro-
vides for the case of the execution of the laws being obstructed
by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary
course of judicial proceedings, or by the powers vested in the
marshals.

The words are these : " Whenever the laws of the United
States shall be opposed, or the execution thereof obstructed, in
any State, by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the
ordinary course of judicial proceedings, or by the powers vested
in the marshals by this act, the same being notified to the Presi-
dent of the United States by an associate judge, or the district
judge, it shall be lawful for the President of the United States to
call forth the militia of such State to suppress such combinations^
and to cause the laws to he duly executed:' Then follows a provi-
sion for calling forth the militia of other States.

The terras of this section appear to contemplate and describe
something that may be less than insurrection. " The combina-

24 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

tions" mentioned may indeed amount to insurrections, but it is
conceivable that tliey may stop at associations not to comply
with the law, supported by riots, assassinations, and murders,
and by a general spirit in a part of the community, which may
baffle the ordinary judiciary means, with no other aid than the
posse comitatus, magistrates and officers in the execution of their
duty. And the objects for which the militia are to be called are
expressly not only to suppress these combinations, (whether
amounting to insurrections or not,) hut to cause the laws to he duly
executed.

It is therefore plainly contrary to the manifest general intent
of the Constitution and of this act, and to the positive and express
terms of the second section of the act, to say that the militia
called forth are not to be continued in service for the purpose of
causing the laivs to be duly executed, and, of course, till they are so
executed.

What is the main and ultimate object of calling forth the
militia? " To cause the laws to be executed." Which are the
laws to be executed ? Those which are oppc^ed and obstructed
in their execution by the combinations described in the present
case — the laws laying duties upon spirits distilled within the
United States, and upon stills; and incidentally those which up-
hold the judiciary functions. When are the laws executed?
Clearly, when the opposition is subdued; when penalties for dis-
obedience can be enforced ; when a compliance is effectuated.

Would the mere dispersion of insurgents^ and their retiring
to their respective homes, do this? Would it satisfy either
member of the provision — the suppression of the combinations
or the execution of the laws? Might not the former, notwith-
standing the disp)ersion, continue in fall vigor, ready at any mo-
ment to break out into new acts of resistance to the laws ? Are
the militia to be kept perpetually marching and counter-march-
ing towards the insurgents while they are embodied, and from
them when they have separated and retired ? Suppose the in-
surgents, hardy enough to wait the experiment of a battle, are
vanquished, and then disperse and retire home, are the militia
immediately to retire also? to give them an opportunity to re-

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 25

assemble, recruit, and prepare for another battle ? And is this
to go on, and be repeated without limit ?

Such a construction of the law, if true, were certainly a very
unfortunate one, rendering its provisions essentially nugatory,
and leading to endless expense, and as endless disappointment.
It could hardly be advisable to vex the militia, by marching
them to a distant point, where they might scarcely be arrived
before it would be legally necessary for them to return, not in
consequence of having effected their object — of having " caused
the laws to be executed" — but in consequence of the mere stra-
tagem of a deceitful dispersion and retiring.

Thus far the spirit as well as the positive letter of the law,
combats the construction which you have adopted. It remains
to see if there be any other part of it which compels to a renun-
ciation both of the letter and spirit of the antecedent provisions.

The part which seems to be relied upon for this effect, is the
third section, which byway of proviso enjoins, "That whenever
it may be necessary, in the judgment of the President, to tise the
military force by that act directed to be called forth, he shall
forthwith, and previous thereto, by proclamation, command the
insurgents to disperse and retire peaceably to their respective
abodes, within a limited time." But does this afiirm, does it ne-
cessarily even imply, that they, after the dispersion and retiring,
are not to be used for the purpose for which they are authorized
to be called forth, that is, " to cause the laws to be duly exe-
cuted," to countenance by their presence, and, in case of further
resistance, to protect and support by their strength, the respec-
tive civil officers in the execution of their several duties, whether
for bringing delinquents to punishment, or otherwise for giving
effect to the laws? May not the injunction of this section be
regarded as a merely humane and prudent precaution, to distin-
guish, previous to the actual application of force, a hasty tumult
from a deliberate insurrection? To give an opportunity for
those who may be accidentally or inadvertently mingled in a tu-
mult or disorderly rising, to separate and withdraw from those
who are designedly and deliberately actors ? To prevent, if
possible, bloodshed in a conflict of arms, and, if this cannot be

26 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

done, to render the necessity of it palpable, by a premonition to
tbe insurgents to disperse and go home ? And are not all these
objects compatible with the further employment of the militia
for the ulterior purpose of causing the laws to be executed in the
way which has been mentioned ? If they present a rational end
for the proviso, without defeating the main design of the antece-
dent provision, it is clear they ought to limit the sense of the
former, and exclude a construction which must make the prin-
cipal provision nugatory.

Do not the rules of law and reason unite in declaring that the
different parts of a statute shall be so construed, as, if possible,
to consist with each other ; that a proviso ought not to be under-
stood or allowed to operate in a sense tending to defeat the prin-
cipal clause ; and that an implication (if, indeed, there be any
such implication as is supposed in the present case) ought not to
overrule an express provision, especially at the sacrifice, at the
manifest general intent of a law, which, in the present case, un-
doubtedly is, that the militia shall be called forth " to cause the
laws to he duly executed T''

Though not very material to the merit of the argument, it
may be remarked, that the proviso which forms the third section,
contemplates merely the case of insurrection. If the combinations
described in the second section may be less than insurrection,
then the proviso is not commensurate with the whole case con-
tained in the second section, which would be an additional cir-
cumstance to prove that it cannot work an effect which shall be
a substitute for the main purpose of the first section.

I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, sir, your excel-
lency's most obedient servant.

jet.31.] cabinet papers. 27

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Wednesday, Sept. 3. 1794.

Dear Sir :

As I know nothing that calls me to the city to-day, I shall
not be there until to-morrow, which will be in time for common
occurrences.

The contents of the inclosed are agreeable.
Yours always.

jay to HAMILTON.

London, Sept. 11, 1794.

Dear Sir :

I had last week the pleasure of receiving from you a few
lines by Mr. Blaney. You will receive this letter by the hands
of Mr. Morris. He will also be the bearer of my dispatches to
Mr. Randolph ; they will be voluminous, particular, and in many
respects interesting. It should not be forgotten, that there is ir-
ritation here as well as in America, and that our party proces-
sions, toasts, rejoicings, &c., &c., have not been well calculated to
produce good will and good humor. The government neverthe-
less distinguishes between national acts and these party effusions,
and have entertained hitherto an opinion and belief, that the
President, and our government and nation in* general, were really
desirous of an amicable settlement of differences, and of laying
a foundation for friendship, as well as peace, between the two
countries.

The Secretary's letters by Mr. Monroe, and his speech on his
introduction to the convention, have appeared in the English
papers. Their impression in this country may easily be conjec-
tured. I wish they had both been more guarded. The language
of the United States at Paris and at London should correspond

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

with their neutrality. These things are not favorable to my
mission.

A speedy conclusion to the negotiation is problematical,
though not highly improbable. If I should be able to conclude
the business on admissible terms, I shall do it, and risk conse-
quences, rather than by the delays of waiting for, and covering
myself by opinions and instructions, hazard a change in the dispo-
sition of this court ; for it seems our country, or rather some
parts of it, will not forbear asperities. I hear that Virginia is
taking British property by escheat ; and other things which in
the present moment are unreasonable are here reported.

As the proposed articles are under consideration, as they
have already undergone some alterations, and as I am not with-
out hopes of other and further amendments, I really think they
ought not to be published in their present crude state ; especially
as in the course of a few weeks I expect to be able to communi-
cate their ultimate form. If then they should not appear to me
to be such as I ought to sign, I will transmit them and wait for
further instructions.

I am, dear sir, yours sincerely.

JAY TO HAMILTON".

London, Sept. 17, 1794.

Dear Sir :

There is something very pleasant in the reflection that while
war, discord, and oppression triumph in so many parts of Europe,
their domination does not extend to our country. I sometimes
flatter myself that Providence, in compassion to the afflicted in
these countries, will continue to leave America in a proper state
to be an asylum to them.

Among those who have suffered severely from these evils, is
Mons. De Eochefoucauld Liancourt, formerly President of the
National Assembly of France. His rank and character are

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 29

known to you. He will be tlie bearer of this letter, and I am
persuaded that his expectations from it will be realized.
Yours sincerely.

HAMILTON TO RANDOLPH.

Remarks on Lord Grenville^s project of a commercial treaty^ made at
the request of E. Randolph^ Esq.^ Secretary of State.

1794.

A. — Inasmuch as the light-house duties which are excepted^
constitute an additional charge on vessels of the United States
beyond those of Great Britain in British ports, this article, which
puts British vessels in our ports exactly upon the same footing
with ours, wants reciprocity. But the most important considera-
tion will be, that as the distinctions which now exist between
foreign and our own vessels are really of importance to our
trade, our merchants will see them relinquished with reluctance,
unless there be some clear equivalent. If the stipulation ex-
tends to duties on goods brought in British bottoms, the conclu-
sion is so much the stronger.

B. — Tliis article in its operation wants reciprocit}^ The
British system contains noio numerous prohibitions, ours none.
To fix this state of things is to renounce an important right to
and place ourselves on an unequal footing. It gives a claim to
some equivalent.

C. — It may be supposed that the equivalent in both cases is
to be found in this article. It would be so, (excepting one cir-
cumstance that will be presently mentioned,) if the duration of
the privileges granted was coextensive with that of the other
parts of the treaty. But the short term of the privileges here
proposed to be granted renders them of inconsiderahle value.
The proviso, too, prohibits vessels of the United States from
carrying " West India " productions from the British Islands or

30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^x. 37.

the United States to any other parts of the world. If this pro-
hibition is to be taken in a literal sense and to extend to the
West India possessions of other countries than Great Britain, it
would be to renounce a valuable branch of trade now enjoyed,
and probably more than would be gained.

D. — The article giving a duration of twelve years to the
treaty as it respects the trade with Europe, and of only two years
as it respects the West Indies, will be very unacceptable. It
will be more so as the project does not even secure the status quo
with the European dominions of Great Britain ; that is, it does
not secure the particular privileges and exemptions which we now
enjoy by proclamation comj^ared with other foreign nations.

Mr. Hamilton communicates these remarks in personal confi-
dence to Mr. Kandolph, with this request, that no cojiy of them
may be taken, and that this paper may be returned, after it serves
the purpose for which these remarks were requested.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, Sept. 19th, 1794.

Sie:

Upon full reflection I entertain an opinion, that it is advisable
for me, on public ground, considering the connection between the
immediate ostensible cause of the insurrection in the western
country and my department, to go out upon the expedition
against the insurgents. In a government like ours, it cannot but
have a good effect for the person who is understood to be the
adviser or proposer of a measure, which involves danger to his
fellow-citizens, to partake in that danger: while, not to do it,
might have a bad effect. I, therefore, request your permission
for the purpose.

My intention would be not to leave this till about the close
of the month, so as to reach one of the columns at its ultimate
point of rendezvous. In the mean time, I take it for granted,

iET. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 81

General Knox will arrive, and the arrangements which will be
made will leave the Treasury Department in a situation to suffer
no embarrassment by my absence ; which, if it be thought neces-
sary, may terminate about or shortly after the meeting of Con-
gress.

With perfect respect, and the truest attachment, I have, &c.

PROCLAMATION".

September 25th, 1794.
By the President of the United States of America.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, from a hope that the combinations against the Con-
stitution and laws of the United States, in certain of the western
counties of Pennsylvania, would yield to time and reflection, I
thought it sufficient, in the first instance, rather to take measures
for calling forth the militia than immediately to embody them ;
but the moment is now come when the overtures of forgiveness,
with no other condition than a submission to law, have been only
partially accepted ; when every form of conciliation, not incon-
sistent with the being of government, has been adopted without
effect ; when the well-disposed in those counties are unable by
their influence and example to reclaim the wicked from their
fury, and are compelled to associate in their own defence ; when
the proffered lenity has been perversely misinterpreted into an
apprehension that the citizens will march with reluctance ; when
the opportunity of examining the serious consequences of a
treasonable opposition has been employed in propagating princi-
ples of anarchy, endeavoring, through emissaries, to alienate the
friends of order from its support, and inviting its enemies to
perpetrate similar acts of insurrection ; when it is manifest that
violence would continue to be exercised upon every attempt to
enforce the laws ; when, therefore, government is set at defiance,

32 H A M 1 L T O N ' S W O R K S . [JEt. 37.

tlie contest being whether a small portion of tlic United States
shall dictate to the whole Union, and, at the expense of those
who desire peace, indulge a desperate ambition. Now, therefore,
I, George Washington, President of the United States, in obe-
dience to that high and irresistible duty consigned to me by the
Constitution, " to take care that the laws be faithfully executed,"
deploring that the American name should be sullied by the out-
rages of citizens on their own government ; commiserating such
as remain obstinate from delusion ; but resolved, in perfect
reliance on that gracious Providence which so signally displays
its goodness towards this country, to reduce the refractory to a
due subordination to the law, do hereby declare and make known
that, with a satisfaction which can be equalled only by the merits
of the militia summoned into service from the States of New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia, I have received
intelligence of their patriotic alacrity in obeying the call of the
present, though painful, yet commanding necessity ; that a force,
which according to every reasonable expectation is adequate to
the exigency, is already in motion to the scene of disaffection ;
that those who have confided, or shall confide in the protection
of government, shall meet full succor under the standard and
from the arms of the United States ; that those who, having
offended against the law, have since entitled themselves to in-
demnity, will be treated with the most liberal good faith, if they
shall not have forfeited their claim by any subsequent conduct,
and that instructions are given accordingly. And I do moreover
exhort all individuals, officers, and bodies of men, to contemplate
with abhorrence the measures leading directly or indirectly
to those crimes which produce this resort to military coercion ;
to check, in their respective spheres, the efforts of misguided or
designing men to substitute their misrepresentations in' the place
of truth, and their discontents in the place of stable government;
and to call to mind, that, as the people of the United States have
been permitted, under the Divine favor, in perfect freedom, after
solemn deliberation, and in an enlightened age, to elect their own
government, so will their gratitude for this inestimable blessing
be best distinguished by firm exertions to maintain the Constitu-

^T.37.] CABINET PAPERS. 33

tion and the laws. And, lastly, I again warn all persons whom-
soever and wheresoever, not to abet, aid, or comfort the insur-
gents aforesaid, as they will answer the contrary at their peril ;
and I do also require all officers and other citizens, according to
their several duties, as far as may be in their power, to bring
under the cognizance of the law all offenders in the premises.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the United
States of America to be affixed to these presents, and signed the
same with my hand. Done at the city of Philadelphia, the
twenty-fifth day of September, one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-four, and of the independence of the United States of
America the nineteenth.

Gr. "Washington.

By the President,

Edm. Randolph.

HAMILTON TO THE GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA.

War Department, September 25, 1794.

Sir:

In the absence of the Secretary of War, I have the honor to
acknowledge the receipt of your letters to his department, of the
5th, 19th, and 30th of August, and to reply to such parts as are
the most pressing, referring the others to the return of that
officer.

Among the posts which have been established, that of Doc-
tor's Town creates a question, in consequence of Lieutenant
Colonel Gaither's information that it is within the Indian boun-
dary.

This is a matter which ought to be unequivocally ascertained,
and if found to be within the Indian line, or if it be even doubt-
ful whether that be the case, the post must be immediately
removed. It is deemed essential that no encroachment should
E 3

34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

take place. And your excellency is relied upon for a strict and
scrupulous adherence to this principle.

Under the circumstances which led to it, the President has
thought proper to authorize the adoption by the United States,
of the new troop ordered by you into service, from the time of
its commencement, and to continue until the first of November
ensuing, when it is to be disbanded.

And you are at liberty, if the state of things shall render it,
in your judgment, essential, to substitute at that time a company
of infantry for the same service. Corps of horse, upon the terms
on which that in question is engaged, are expensive in the ex-
treme ; and in a much greater proportion, compared with infan-
try, than any supposable superiority of usefulness can justify.
Indeed, it would require a treasury much better supplied than
that of the United States, to support the expense of a multiplica-
tion or extension of such corps. Consequently, that multiplica-
tion or extension would tend to defeat its own object; for our
instruments of defence, to be durable, must be relative to our
means of supporting them. And when we find, as in the in-
stance of the insurrection now existing in the western parts of
Pennsylvania, that those for whose immediate benefit the ob-
jects of military expenditure occur, are among the first to resist,
even to violence, the necessary means of defraying them, it is
easy to appreciate the perplexing dilemma to which the govern-
ment is reduced, between the duty and the meaiis of affording
protection, and the necessity, consequently, of economy in the
modes of effecting it.

Your excellency is pleased to express your concern, at being
so repeatedly compelled to solicit protection for the State of
Georgia.

This is not understood as implying any want of due disposi-
tion on the part of the Executive of this government, to afford
all the protection which is within the compass of the means
placed within its power, having regard to all the objects which,
along a very extended frontier, equally demand attention. It is
not doubted that you render justice, in this respect, to the views
of the Executive.

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 35

But tlie observation you have made in tliis particular, natur-
ally leads to anotlier, which calls for the most serious attention of
the governments of the States, exposed to Indian depredations.
It is this, that there is a reciprocal duty in the case. The obliga-
tion upon the United States, to afford adequate protection to the
inhabitants of the frontiers, is no doubt of the highest and most
sacred kind. But there is a duty no less strong upon those in-
habitants, to avoid giving occasion to hostilities, by an irregular
and improper conduct; and upon the local governments, sin-
cerely and effectually to punish and repress instances of such
conduct, and the spirit which produces them. If these inhabit-
ants can, with impunity, thwart all the measures of the United
States for restoring or preserving peace ; if they can, with im-
punity, commit depredations and outrages upon the Indians, and
that, in violation of the faith of the United States, pledged not
only in their general treaties, but even in the special (and among
all nations, peculiarly sacred) case of a safe conduct, as in the
instance of the attack upon the Indians, while encamped within
our protection, on the 10th of May last ; can it be surprising if
such circumstances should abate the alacrity of the national
councils to encounter those heavy expenses, which the protec-
tion of the frontiers occasions, and of the readiness of the citizens
of the United States, distant from the scenes of danger, to acqui-
esce in the burdens they produce ? It is not meant, by these
remarks, to diminish the force of the excuse within due limits,
which is drawn from the conduct of the Indians towards the
frontier inhabitants. It cannot be denied, that frequent and
great provocations to a spirit of animosity and revenge are given
by them ; but a candid and impartial survey of the events, which
have from time to time occurred, can leave no doubt that in-
juries and provocations have been too far mutual ; that there is
much to blame in the conduct of the frontier inhabitants, as well
as in that of the Indians. And the result of a full examination
must be, that, unless means to restrain, by punishing the vio-
lences which those inhabitants are in the habit of perpetrating
against the Indians, can be put in execution, all endeavors to
preserve peace with them must be for ever frustrated.

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

An example, worthy of imitation, in its spirit, lias lately been
civen, by tlie surrender to Governor Blount of some Indians
wlio lately committed a murder upon one Jolin Isb, an inhabit-
ant of the south-western territory, and who have been tried and
executed. The record of such an example of justice and fair deal-
ing, will give occasion to us to blush, if we can cite no instance
of reciprocity, amidst the numerous occasions which are given
for the exercise of it.

These reflections, your excellency may be assured, are merely
designed to present to consideration some very important truths
— truths, a due attention to which is of the most serious con-
cern to those States which have an exposed frontier. To give
full weight to their claims, upon the exertions of the Union to
afford the requisite protection, it is of great moment to satisfy
the United States, that the necessity for them has not been
created, or promoted by a culpable temper, not sufficiently re-
strained, among those to whom the protection is immediately to
be extended.

The President learns, with great pleasure, the measures your
excellency had begun, and was about to pursue, for the removal
of the settlers under General Clarke. It is impossible to con-
ceive a settlement more unjustifiable in its pretexts, or more dan-
gerous in its principle, than that which he is attempting. It is
not only a high-handed usurpation of the rights of the General
and State governments, and a most unwarrantable encroachment
upon those of the Indians ; but, proceeding upon the idea of a
separate and independent government, to be erected upon a
military hasis^ it is essentially hostile to our republican systems
of government, and is pregnant with incalculable mischiefs. It
deeply concerns the great interests of the country that such an
establishment should not be permitted to take root, and that the
example should be checked by adequate punishment ; in doing
which, no time is to be lost : for, such is the nature of the estab-
lishment, that it may be expected rapidly to attain to a formidable
magnitude, involving great expense and trouble to subvert it.

The President, therefore, depends absolutely upon measures,
equally prompt and efficacious, to put an end to it.

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 37

Mr. Habersham, agent for supplies, is instructed to co-oper-
ate ; and the Governor of South Carolina is requested to afford,
upon your application, the aid of the militia of that State, if cir-
cumstances, as does not appear probable, should require it.

No agreement or arrangement which may be made, or pre-
tended to be made between these settlers and the Indians, ought
to be suffered to make any alteration in the plan of suppressing
the settlement: for, no such agreement, or arrangement, can
possibly be legal ; or, considering the manner in which the set-
tlement has been commenced, can, without affording a most per-
nicious example, receive the future sanction of government.

You desire instructions with regard to the prisooers that may
be made, in the event of the employment of force. You will be
pleased to cause them to be delivered over to the custody of the
judiciary, and in preference, to that of the United States; as
their laws define and prescribe particular punishments in such
cases.

Alex. Hamilton.

WOLCOTT TO WILKES.

Treasury Department, October 8th, 1794.

Sir:

I have had the pleasure to receive your letter of the 6th in-
stant, addressed to the Secretary of the Treasury, announcing
that the President, Directors and Company of the New- York
Bank, have generously complied with his proposals for a loan of
two hundred thousand dollars for the public service.

I inclose a contract for the repayment of this sum on the
terms proposed, when the counterpart has been executed on the
part of the corporation of the bank. I must request you to
transmit it to the Treasury.

The proceeds of the loan may be passed to the credit of the

38 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

United States at New- York, and held subject to the drafts of
the Treasurer.

I am, with consideration, sir, your obedient servant.
For the Secretary of the Treasury.

Oliver Wolcott, Jun.

HAMILTON TO LEE.

Bedford, October 20, 1794.

Sir:

I have it in special instruction from the President of the
United States, now at this place, to convey to you the following
instructions for the general direction of your conduct in the com-
mand of the militia army, with which you are charged.

The objects for which the militia have been called forth
are —

1st. To sujDpress the combinations which exist in some of
the western counties in Pennsylvania, in opposition to the laws
laying duties upon spirits distilled within the United States, and
upon stills.

2d. To cause the laws to be executed.

These objects are to be effected in two ways.

1. By military force.

2- -^J judiciary process and and other civil proceedings.

The objects of the military force are two-fold.

1. To overcome any armed opposition which may exist.

2. To countenance and supj)ort the civil ofl&cers in the means
of executing the laws.

With a view to the first of these two objects, you will pro-
ceed, as speedily as may be, with the army under your com-
mand, into the insurgent counties, to attack, and as far as shall
be in your power, subdue, all persons whom you may find in
arms in opposition to the laws above mentioned. You will
march your army in two columns, from the places where they

^T. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 39

are now assembled, by the most convenient routes, having re-
gard to the nature of the roads, the convenience of supply, and
the facility of co-operation and union ; and bearing in mind
that you ought to act, till the contrary shall be fully developed,
on the general principle of having to contend with the whole
force of the counties of Fayette, Westmoreland, Washington,
and Allegany, and of that part of Bedford which lies west of
the town of Bedford ; and that you are to put as little as possible
to hazard. The approximation, therefore, of your columns, is
to be sought, and the subdivision of them, so as to place the
parts out of mutual supporting distance, to be avoided as far as
local circumstances will permit. Parkinson's Ferry appears to
be a proper point towards which to direct the march of the
columns for the purpose of ulterior measures.

When arrived within the insurgent country, if an armed
opposition appear, it may be proper to publish a proclamation,
inviting all good citizens, friends of the Constitution and laws, to
join the standard of the United States. If no armed opposition
exist, it may still be proper to publish a proclamation, exhorting
to a peaceable and dutiful demeanor, and giving assurances of
performing, with good faith and liberality, whatsoever may have
been promised by the Commissioners to those who have com-
plied with the conditions prescribed by them, and who have not
forfeited their title by subsequent misconduct.

Of those persons in arms, if any, whom you may make pris-
oners, leaders, including all persons in command, are to be deliv-
ered up to the civil magistrate ; the rest to be disarmed, admon-
ished, and sent home, (except such as may have been particularly
violent, and also influential,) causing their own recognizances
for their good behavior to be taken, in the cases in which it
may be deemed expedient.

With a view to the second point, namely, "the countenance
and support of the civil officers in the means of executing the
laws," you will make such dispositions as shall appear proper to
countenance and protect, and, if necessary, and required by
them, to support and aid the civil officers in the execution of
their respective duties ; for bringing offenders and delinquents

40 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

to justice ; for seizing the stills of delinquent distillers, as far as
the same shall be deemed eligible by the supervisor of the
revenue, or chief officer of inspection ; and also for conveying to
places of safe custody such persons as may be apprehended and
not admitted to bail.

The objects of judiciary process, and other civil proceedings,
will be —

1. To bring offenders to justice.

2. To enforce penalties on delinquent distillers by suit.

3. To enforce the penalty of forfeiture on the same persons,
by the seizure of their stills and spirits.

The better to effect these purposes, the judge of the district,
Eichard Peters, Esquire, and the attorney of the district,
"William Rawle, Esquire, accompany the army.

You are aware that the judge cannot be controlled in his
functions ; but I count on his disposition to co-operate in such a
general plan as shall appear to you consistent with the policy of
the case. But your method of giving a direction to legal pro-
ceedings, according to your general plan, will be by instruction
to the district attorney.

He ought particularly to be instructed, (with due regard to
time and circumstances,) 1st. To procure to be arrested all influ-
ential actors in riots and unlawful assemblies relating to the
insurrection, and combinations to resist the laws, or having for
object to abet that insurrection and those combinations, and who
shall not have complied with the terms offered by the Commis^
sioners, or manifested their repentance in some other way, which
you may deem satisfactory. 2d. To cause process to issue for
enforcing penalties on delinquent distillers. 3d. To cause
offenders who may be arrested, to be conveyed to jails where
there will be no danger of rescue ; those for misdemeanors, to
the jails of York and Lancaster ; those for capital offences, to the
jail of Philadelphia, as more secure than the others. 4th. To
prosecute indictable offences in the courts of the United States ;
those for penalties on delinquents, under the laws before men-
tioned, in the courts of Pennsylvania.

As a guide in the case, the district attorney has with him. a

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 41

list of the persons wlio liave availed themselves of the offers of
the commissioners on the day appointed.

The seizure of stills is the province of the supervisor and
other officers of inspection. It is difficult to chalk out the pre-
cise line concerning it. There are opposite considerations which
will require to be nicely balanced, and which must be judged of
by those officers on the spot. It may be found useful to confine
the seizures to stills of the most leading and refractory distil-
lers. It may be advisable to extend them far in the most
refractory county.

When the insurrection is subdued, and the requisite means
have been put in execution to secure obedience to the laws, so as
to render it proper for the army to retire, (an event which you
will accelerate as much as shall be consistent with the object,)
you will endeavor to make an arrangement for detaching such a
force as you deem adequate, to be stationed within the disaffected
country, in such a manner as best to afford protection to well-
disposed citizens and to the officers of the revenue, and to repress,
by their presence, the spirit of riot and opposition to the laws.

But before you withdraw the army, you will promise, on be-
half of the President, a general pardon to all such as shall not
have been arrested, with such exceptions as you shall deem
proper. The promise must be so guarded as not to affect
pecuniary claims under the revenue laws. In this measure, it is
advisable there should be a co-operation with the Governor of
Pennysylvania.

On the return of the army you will adopt some convenient
and certain arrangement for restoring to the public magazines, the
arms, accoutrements, military stores, tents, and other articles of
camp equipage and intrenching tools, which have been furnished,
and shall not have been consumed or lost.

You are to exert yourself by all possible means to preserve
discipline among the troops, particularly a scrupulous regard to
the rights of persons and property, and to a respect for the
authority of the civil magistrate ; taking especial care to inculcate
and cause to be observed this principle : that the duties of the
army are confined to the attacking and subduing of armed oppo-

42 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

nents of the laws, and to the supporting and aiding of the civil
officers in the execution of their functions.

It has been settled that the Governor of Pennsylvania will be
second, the Governor of New Jersey third in command, and that
the troops of the several States in line, on the march and upon
detachment, are to be posted according to the rule which pre-
vailed in the army during the late war; namely, in moving
towards the sea-board, the most southern troops will take the
right; in moving westward, the most northern will take the
right.

These general instructions, however, are to be considered as
liable to such alterations and deviations in the detail, as from
local and other causes may be found necessary, the better to
effect the main object upon the general principles which have
been indicated.

With great respect, I have the honor to be, sir.
Your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

To Major General Lee.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON,

Hartley's, Tuesday evening, 21st October. 1794.

Dear Sir :

From Colonel Mentges' information, there are detachments of
militia a considerable distance in the rear, composed in part, of
those whose march was designed to be arrested. He adds, many
of them are illy clad. This being the case, it appears to me,
that an expense without an equivalent advantage, would result
from bringing them forward ; and that the clothes which they
must draw to fit them for service, would be actually thrown
away.

Under this view of the matter, and a full persuasion that the
army which is already advanced, is more than competent to any
opposition that can be given by the insurgents — I request that

yET. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 43

you would advise with Governors Mifflin and Howell, (after
receiving the fullest information from Mentges,) and cause all
which in your opinions cannot be up in time — all who are inade-
quately clothed in the rear — and in a word, all who do not upon
mature consideration of circumstances appear to be essential, to
return, that the country may not be unnecessarily burthened
with the clothing, pay and rations of them.

Open all letters of a public nature which may come to the
army addressed to me, and such as are in the military line and
relating to the business you are upon, hand over to the Com-
manding General.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Berlin, 3d day's march, October 25th, 1794,

7 o'clock in the evening.

Sir:

We arrived here this afternoon. A very heavy rain has ren-
dered the march extremely arduous and distressing; but we
find here much better shelter than was foreseen. Our baggage
and stores are just beginning to arrive. The Jersey line and
brigade of cavalry took the right-hand road, about five miles
back.

To-morrow we shall continue our march, and I hope that we
shall conform to the general arrangement, though we must
shorten to-morrow's march, and lengthen that of the day fol-
lowing.

The troops have shown all the patience that could have
been expected. In short, I perceive nothing amiss.

Bradford and Fulton, it is said, are gone off. By tracing
time, it is not probable they were at all influenced by the arrests
of Husbands and Phelson.

With the highest respect, and truest attachment, I have the
honor to be, &c.

44 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Berlin, October 26th, 1794.

Sir:

The very late arrival of the wagons, the injury to a number
of them, and the dispersed situation of the troops, render it im-
practicable to leave this place to-day, as was intended ; but the
baggage and stores go forward, and to-morrow the troops must
move. I apprehend no material derangement of the general
plan. An express has been dispatched to Governor Lee, advising
him of the state of things here.

Nothing from the Western country.

With the greatest respect and attachment, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

SusauEHANNA (Wright's Ferry), Oct. 26th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

A little advanced of this, yesterday afternoon, I met an ex-
press with the letters herewith inclosed for you, with others for
the army, with which I have directed him to proceed.

Thus far, I have proceeded without accident to man, horse,
or carriage, although the latter has had wherewith to try its
goodness; especially in ascending the North mountain, from
Skinner's, by a wrong road; that is, by the old road, which
never was good, and is rendered next to impassable by neglect,

I heard great complaints of Gurney's corps (and some of the
artillery), along the road to Strasburgh ; there I parted from
their route. In some places, I was told, they did not leave a
plate, a spoon, a glass, or a knife ; and this owing, in a great
measure, I was informed, to their being left without oflScers. At
most, if not all, the encampments, I found the fences, in a man-
ner, burnt up. I pray you to mention this to Governor Mifflin

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS, 45

(and, indeed, to the Quartermaster-General), with a request (to
tlie former) that the most pointed orders may be given, and every
precaution used, to prevent the like on the return of the army.
If the officers, from impatience to get home, should leave their
respective commands — in a word, if they do not march with, and
keep the soldiers in their ranks, and from straggling or loitering
behind, the borderers on the road will sustain inconceivable
damage from the disorderly troops ; whose names will be exe-
crated for, and the service disgraced by, such conduct.

There were some letters put into the hands of Governor Lee,
which it would be well for you to reposses yourself of; among
these, were two to Messrs. Lynn, Mr. Koss's to you, and Messrs.
Finley's and Eedick's to me. Occasion may require them.

I rode yesterday afternoon, in the rain, from Yorktown to this
place, and got twice, in the height of it, hung (and delayed by that
means) on the rocks in the middle of the Susquehanna ; but I
did not feel half as much for my own situation as I did on ac-
count of the troops on the mountains, and of the effect the rain
might have on the roads through the glades.

I do not intend to proceed further than Lancaster to-day ; but
on Tuesday, if no accident happens, I expect to be landed in the
city of Philadelphia. My best wishes attend you, and all with
you.

Yours, sincerely, &c.

P. S. I hope you will be enabled, by hook or by crooh^ to

send B and H ■, together with a certain Mr. Guthrie, to

Philadelphia, for their winter quarters.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Jones' Mill, October 29th, 1794.

Sir:

The light corps, with the Jersey infantry and brigade of cav-
alry, are at Indian Creek, in Legnoier valley, where they continue

46 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

till tills division gets up, which, will be this evening, as the march
will commence in an hour. This division had, I believe, the
worst road, and was, besides, encumbered with all the spare
stores, which has thrown it a day's march behind the other. But
by a letter received yesterday from Governor Lee, it appears
that the right wing is fully in measure with the left. All is
essentially well with both wings, and the troops continue to
show as much good humor as could possibly have been ex-
pected.

The meeting at Parkinson's Ferry ended, we are told, in a
new appointment of commissioners to dej)recate the advance of
the army, and in new expressions of pacific intentions. But
there is nothing which can occasion a question about the pro-
priety of the army's proceeding to its ultimate destination. No
appearances whatever of opposition occur.

You desired that a table of the routes of the left wing might
be sent you. None was left with any officer of this wing.

With the truest respect and attachment,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your obd't serv't, &c.

P. S. It is hoped that the original papers have been for-
warded, as the list furnished from the Secretary of State's office
would be a deceptive guide. Memoranda of the Attorney-Gen-
eral, brought by this express, will greatly aid, perhaps suf-
ficiently ; but the originals would be best.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".
Camp, li :uiles beyond Cherry's Mill, October 31, 1794.

Sir:

The New Jersey infantry and brigade of cavalry are at this
place. The Pennsylvania infantry will be here this evening.
The light corps is advanced about two miles. No official account

^T. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 47

since that heretofore communicated has come from the left wing.
But a person who came from Uniontown, yesterday, informs
that Morgan^ with the advance, was there ; the main body about
twenty miles behind. I propose in about an hour to set out for
Uniontown.

All announces trepidation and submission. The new Com-
missioners have been with Governor Mifflin, charged with new
declarations by townships, battalions of militia, &c., of a disposi-
tion to obey the laws. The impression is certainly for the pre-
sent strong, but it will be stronger and more permanent by what
is to follow. It does not appear that any great number have
fled.

With the truest respect and attachment, I have the honor to
be, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Slst October, 1794,

Dear Sir:

By pushing through the rain, (which fell more or less on
Saturday, Sunday, and Monday,) I arrived in this city before
noon, on Tuesday, without encountering any accident on the
road, or any thing so unpleasant as the badness of the ways, after
the rain had softened the earth, and made them susceptible of
deep impression of the wheels.

How you passed through the glades, after the various accounts
we had received of them, in such wet weather, I am at a loss to
conjecture, but am extremely anxious to know ; as I am also to
learn the operations of the army, and the state and condition of
it since.

Nothing important or new has been lately received from our
ministers abroad ; and although, accounts from London to the
first of September, and from Ireland of stiU later date, have been
inserted in the gazettes, they are not precise enough to be de-
tailed in a letter. In general, however, the French continue to

48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JiIt. 37.

be successful by land, and it might be added, by sea also, for
they are capturing a great number of British merchantmen.
Nor does the fate of Robespierre seem to have given more than
a momentary stagnation to their affairs. The armies rejoice at
it, and the people are congratulating one another on the oc-
casion.

Mr. Monroe has arrived in France, and has had his reception
in the midst of the Convention at Paris, but no letter has been
received from him.

Few members have yet come to town. To-morrow, I pre-
sume, will bring many. The papers say Mr. Trumbull is elected
to the Senate, in the room of Mr. Mitchell, who has resigned ;
but who has, or will, supply his place in the other House is
not mentioned.

Husbands and the other prisoners were safely lodged in this
city on Wednesday afternoon. Press the Governor, &c., to be
pointed in ordering the of&cers under their respective commands
to march back with their respective corps, and to see that
the inhabitants meet with no disgraceful insults or injuries from
them. The Secretary of War will, I expect, say something re-
specting the deposit of the arms and public stores in x^roper
places. To him, therefore, I shall refer.

Mrs. Hamilton and your family were very well yesterday
afternoon. Your letter of the 23d has been received.

I am always and affectionately, yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Cherry's Mill, November Sd, 1704.

Sir:

I have returned to this place, from Uniontown. A letter
from Governor Lee, which goes with this, probably informs you
of the plan of future operations ; but, lest it should not, I will
briefly state it. The right wing is to take a position with its

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 49

left towards Budd's Ferrj, and its right towards Greensburgh.
The left wing is to be posted between the Youghiogheny and
Monongahela, with its left towards the latter, and its right
towards the former. Morgan, with his command, including the
whole of the light corps, and perhaps a part of the brigade of
cavalry, will go into Washington county. It is not unlikely
that, in the course of the business, a part of the troops will take
a circuit by Pittsburgh ; for the more places they can appear in,
without loss of time, the better.

In adopting this plan, the circumstance of much delay in
crossing and recrossing waters, has weighed powerfully ; and the
quiescent state of the country renders the plan entirely safe.
Boats, however, will be collected on both waters, to facilitate
mutual communication and support,

I received the letter you was so good as to write me, on the
road, with those that accompanied it.

The rainy weather continues, with short intervals of clear.
The left wing has suffered from sickness, but the right has been
and continues remarkably healthy. The troops also continue to
behave well. A court martial sits to-day, to try one or two riot-
ous fellows, and one or two marauders. The appointment of it
has checked the licentious corps.

With the truest respect and attachment,

I have the honor to be, &c,

P. S. Not many fugitives from justice as yet.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 5th Nov.. 1794.

Dear Sir :

Since my last to you, I have received your several letters of
the 25th, 26th and 29th of last month, and am glad to hear that
the troops continue to be in good health and spirits, notwith-
E 4

50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

standing tlie bad weather and tlie roads, and that farther
indications of submissioti were likely to be manifested by the
insurgents,

I have not received the route of either column of the army,
nor a copy of the order establishing them issued on the day of
my departure from Bedford,

Upon inquiry I find that it was copies only of papers that
had been sent from the Secretary of State's ofiice, the originals
being adjudged necessary for the archives.

Tor want of a quorum in the Senate, Congress have not yet
proceeded on business, and it is questionable it seems whether it
will make a house to-day — five members being wanting for this
purpose yesterday afternoon.

Bache, as I expected, has opened his batteries upon your
motives for remaining with the army. As the papers (I presume)
are sent to you, I shall not repeat them. Although there are
some late arrivals, the gazettes have not as yet announced any
thing new,

Mrs, Hamilton and your family were well yesterday, Mrs.
Schuyler and son (John) and daughter are there, but talk of
going away to-day or to-morrow.

I am your affectionate, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON,
Head Quarters, Roshaven Township, November 8, 1794.

Sir:

Morgan, with the whole of the light troops, has crossed into
Washington county. Dispositions of different corps are making
to strike at once into the most disaffected scenes.

It appears evident, that to wait for preliminary investigations

to apprehend the guilty upon process, would defeat the object,

and produce delay beyond the patience of the troops, or the time

- allowed by the season for operation. With the advice of the

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 51

district attorney, the Commander-in-Chief has concluded to take
hold of all who are worth the trouble in a more summary way,
that is, by the military arm, and then to deliver them over to the
disposition of the judiciary. In the mean time, all possible
means are using to obtain evidence, and accomplices will be
turned against the others.

This step is directed by that principle of common law that
every man may of right apprehend a traitor.

I hope good objects will be found notwithstanding many have
gone off. It is proved that Breckenridge did not subscribe till
after the day, and that he has been the worst of all scoundrels.
The only question is how far the candor of the government,
owing to the use made of him by the commissioners, might be
compromited.

The Commander-in-Chief is taking measures, with a good
prospect of success, to engage a competent corps to be stationed
in the country — a regiment of infantry and four troops of horse.
The plan is to engage them for nine mouths, but a suit of clothes
must be allowed.

Being not very well, I am obliged to be brief.

"With the truest respect and attachment, I have the honor to
be, sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

RosHAVEN Township, November 11, 1794.

Sir:

I have the honor of your note of the 5th instant.

To-morrow the measures for apprehending persons and seizing-
stills will be carried into effect. I hope there will be found
characters fit for examples, and who can be made so. Colonel
Hamilton, sheriff, is now at our quarters — come to make a volun-
tary surrender of himself It is not yet certain how much can
be proved against him ; but otherwise he is a very fit subject.

I observe what Mr. Bache is about. But I am the more

52 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

indifferent to it as experience has proved to me, (however it may-
be in ways which I could not allege in my justification,) that my
presence in this quarter was in several respects not useless. And f
it is long since I have learned to hold popular opinion of no
value. I hope to derive from the esteem of the discerning, and
an internal consciousness of zealous endeavors for the public
good, the reward of those endeavors.

I propose, if no urgent reason to the contrary occurs, to leave
this country for Philadelphia about the 15th instant, and I shall
lose no time in reaching it. Meanwhile I trust the business of
my department will suffer no injury from my absence.

Before I go I will try to see that a good arrangement is made
with regard to arms, stores, &c.

With true respect and affectionate attachment, &c.

p^ S, — Poor Lenox has been on the torture so long, and has
lately received such unpleasant accounts, that we have all advised
him to return to Philadelphia. The substitutes devised will
guard against injury to the service. Intelligence having been
received of some of the insurgents having embodied about
Beaver Creek — a plan is laid provisionally for giving them a
stroke — the execution of which will be speedily attempted if
nothing to the contrary occurs.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Town of Washington, November 15, 1794.

Sir:

I had the honor of writing to you three days since by Mr.
Vaughan. Nothing material has since occurred except that a
number of persons have been apprehended. Twenty of them
are in confinement at this place ; others have not yet arrived.
Several of those in confinement are fit subjects for examples,
and it is probable from the evidence already collected, and what

^T. 37.]

CABINET PAPERS. 53

is expected, that enough for that purpose will be proved. The
most conspicuous of these for character or crime, are understood
to be the Eev. John Corbly, Colonel Crawford, Colonel John
Hamilton, Thomas Sedgwick, David Lock, John Munn, John
Laughery.

The evidence has not yet fixed the situation of Colonel Ha-
milton.

A warrant has been sent after Colonel Gaddis, of Fayette,
another very fit subject ; but, from the lapse of time, I fear he
has escaped.

The bad spirit is evidently not subdued. Information is just
received, that within the last three days a pole has been erected
about sixteen and a half miles from this place, on the road to
Muddy Creek ; measures are taken on the subject.

But it is more and more apparent, that for some considerable
time to come, a military force in this country is indispensable. I
presume the temporary one meditated will be accomplished.

To-morrow I leave this place for Pittsburgh. If nothing ex-
traordinary happens, I shall leave that place for Philadelphia on
the 19th. By that time every thing will have taken its shape.

With true respect and affectionate attachment, I have the
honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Pittsburgh, November 17, 1794.

Sir:

I wrote to you two days since by express from Washington.
The judiciary corps with myself arrived here last evening. The
list of prisoners has been very considerably increassd, probably
to the amount of one hundred and fifty, but it is not yet so di-
gested as to be forwarded. Governor Lee just informs me, that
he has received a letter from Marietta, advising him of the ap-
prehending of John Holcroff, the reputed Tom the Tinker y and
one Wright, a notorious offender.

54 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 37.

Subsequent intelligence shows that there is no regular assem-
blage of the fugitives where it is supposed ; there are only small
vagrant parties in that quarter, affording no point of attack.

Every thing is urging on for the return of the troops. The
engagement of a corps to remain here goes on, it is said, well.

With perfect respect and true attachment, I have the honor
to be, &c.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

London, 19th November, 1794.

My dear Sir :

My task is done ; whether finis coronat opus, the President,
Senate, and public, will decide. This letter goes by the packet,
and the treaty with it. Some parts of it require elucidation to
common readers. I have not time for comment. Lord Gren-
ville is anxious to dismiss the packet. If this treaty fails, I de-
spair of another. If satisfactory, care should be taken that pub-
lic opinion be not misled respecting it ; for this reason the sooner
it is ratified and published, the better. I really think the good
disposition of this coimtry should be cherished. I came here in
the moment of exultation and triumph on account of Lord
Howe's victory ; from that day to this, I have experienced no
change in sentiment or conduct relative to the negotiation, I
must, though not without reluctance, conclude. Not being fit
for a winter's voyage, I shall stay here till spring ; indeed I shall
want repairs before I am quite fit for any voyage. God bless you.
Yours, John Jay.

.-Et. 37.] CABINET PAPERS.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

PiTTSBCRGH, Novembei" 19th, 1794.

7 o'clock in the morning.

Sir:

I wrote you the day before yesterday, by express. Notbing
material remains to be said. The army is, generally, in motion
homeward— the Virginia line, by way of Morgantown, to Win-
chester, &c.— the Maryland line, by way of Uniontown, to Wil-
liamsport, &c.— the Pennsylvania and New Jersey, by the old
Pennsylvania route, to Bedford. The judiciary is industrious in
prosecuting the examinations of prisoners— among whom, there
is a suf&cient number of proper ones for examples, and with suf-
ficient evidence. Col. Gaddis has been brought in.

With perfect respect, and true attachment, I have the
honor, &c.

P. S. In five minutes I set out for Philadelphia.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, December 1st,. 1794.

Sir:

I have the honor to inform you, that I have fixed upon the
last of January next as the day for the resignation of my ofiice
of Secretary of the Treasury. I make the communication now,
that there may be time to mature such an arrangement as shall
appear to you proper to meet the vacancy when it occurs.
With perfect respect, and the truest attachment,

I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your very obd't serv't, &c.

56 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

HAMILTON TO THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

Philadelphia, December 1st, 1794.

Sir:

I beg leave, througli you, to make known to the House of
Kepresentatives, that I have signified to the President of the
United States my intention to resign my office of Secretary of
the Treasury on the last day of January next. I make this com-
munication, in order that an opportunity may be given, previ-
ous to that event, to institute any further proceeding which may
be contemplated, if any there be, in consequence of the inquiry,
during the last session, into the state of this Department.

With perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

December 2d, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor respectfully
to make the following representation to the President of the
United States, in order that he may determine on the expedi-
ency of laying the subject of it before Congress.

The procuring of military supplies generally is, with great
propriety, vested by law in the Department of the Treasury.
That department, from situation, may be expected to feel a more
habitual solicitude for economy than any other, and to possess
more means of information respecting the best modes of obtain-
ing supplies.

It is, however, important, that the particular arrangement
should be such as to enable the department to execute the trust
in the best manner. This branch of business forms a very con-
siderable one of the public expenditure. Including supplies for
the navy, it is so extensive as, to be well executed, would occupy
the whole time and attention of one person, possessing the requi-

jet.31.] cabinet papers. 57

site qualifications. This, witli the growth of the country, must
be every year more and more the case. It cannot, therefore, be
conducted in detail by the head of the department, or by any
existing officer of it, now charged with other duties, and without
being less well executed than it ought to be, or interfering with
other essential duties, or without a portion of both these in-
conveniences, to the material detriment of the public service.
Experience has already verified the position.

It must then, of necessity, either be confided to a special
agent, employed by the head of the department, or to a new
officer of the department, to be constituted by law, and to act
under the discretion and superintendence of that head. The
last mode is preferable to the first, for obvious reasons.

Whenever an object of public business is likely to be perma-
nent, it is more fit that it should be transacted by an officer of
the government, regularly constituted, than by the agent of a
department, specially intrusted.

The officer can be placed, by law, under more effectual
checks. In the present case, that idea is particularly important.
The person intrusted ought to be prohibited, under penalties,
from all dealing, on his own account, in the objects of supply.

The duration and emoluments of mere agency being pre-
carious, a well qualified man, disposed to make the necessary
sacrifices of other pursuits, and to devote himself exclusively to the
business, could with much greater difficulty, if at all, be found.

The compensation to such an officer ought, it is conceived,
to weigh nothing as an objection. Independent of the equiva-
lent expense, arising from the necessity of employing and com-
pensating an agent, it is morally certain that the close, constant,
undivided attention of a person, charged exclusively with this
object, and in condition, for that reason, to make the minute as
well as extensive inquiries and investigations which are often
requisite, would produce savings to the United States with which
the salary of the officer could bear no comparison. It is equally
evident that it would contribute greatly to punctuality, dispatch,
and efficiency, in procuring the supplies.

All which is humbly submitted.

A. Hamilton.

58 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

J. Q. ADAMS TO HAMILTON.

The Hague, Dec. 5th, 1794.

Sir:

The bankers of the United States at Amsterdam have writ-
ten to you upon the present state of affairs, in this country, which
would in their opinion render the negotiation for eight hundred
thousand dollars, for which they have been commissioned, alto-
gether impracticable, even if they had received from Col.
Humphreys the information for which they are instructed to
wait.

Under these circumstances, therefore, I find myself deprived
not only of the happiness of contributing to the success, but
even of the satisfaction of making all the exertions in my power
for the attainment of an object so near to the wishes of the Pres-
ident and so important to the interests of the United States. As
the contingency upon which the loan was at any rate to be at-
tempted has not happened, it would have been perfectly unne-
cessary to dispute the opinion of the commissioners. As the
management of this business has been committed to them entire-
ly, it would have been improper. As their means of information
upon this point are so much superior to mine, it would have been
indecorous. I have therefore only observed to them that the ob-
ject to which the money was intended to be applied, was of ex-
treme urgency and importance ; and that I hoped they would
take advantage of the first favorable moment that should offer to
make their dispositions so as to be prepared for the receipt of the
order from Lisbon.

The zeal and fidelity with which these gentlemen have served
the United States from the time they were first interested in their
affairs, has been so thoroughly tried and proved that it will cer-
tainly not be deficient on the present occasion. Their personal
interest will also concur with their public duty to animate their
activity if they see a possible chance of succeeding. So that
when they tell me that the negotiation of the proposed loan
would be impracticable, I cannot doubt but that the fact is really

^T. 37.] CABINET PAPERS. 59

SO, and tliat with the whole latitude of powers given them as to
the terms, they will not venture to undertake it.

It is with much pleasure however that I learn from them, an^
from many other quarters, that in point of credit here, the United
States stand upon a higher footing than any other power. That
their obligations at 4 per cent, with premium are ten per cent,
above par ; and their 5 per cents, at par : while those of the Em-
peror and of Kussia are vibrating rom 75 to 90, and some others
bear no price at all.

By the capture of Antwerp, a difficulty has occurred upon
which the gentlemen at Amsterdam have no doubt already writ-
ten you. The annual interest upon the loan made there of three
millions of florins, is by the tenor of the obligations made payable
at the counting-house of Mr. De Wolff, and the bankers here
have annually remitted the money to Antwerp for the purpose.
As the circulation of assignats is compulsive, the Brabanters,
holders of the American obligations, are apprehensive of receiving
their interest in that currency, and our bankers have not trans-
mitted the money for the interest that becomes due for the last
year. It may be added, that many of these creditors are now
emigrants, and may possibly have other apprehensions for the
fate of the principal as well as of the interest. One of them
called upon me at Amsterdam last week, to inquire whether I
could give him any relief. I told him that I had neither instruc-
tions nor power relating to that loan, but would readily transmit
any representation he wished to make, and I did not doubt but
the United States would do their creditors full justice. He said
an expedient had already been adopted by the court of Denmark
upon the same occasion, which had been satisfactory to their
creditors, in their Brabant loans, and which, if equally adopted
by the United States, would very much accommodate him and
many others in the same predicament. It was to declare that
the holders of their obligations might receive their interest at
Copenhagen instead of Antwerp, and that they might exchange
the obligations themselves for others bearing the same interest.

The communication between Antwerp and this country is
interrupted, and I do not know whether Mr. De Wolff has paid

60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

the interest due upon the loan this year. The money for the
purpose has certainly not been remitted from hence. I hope
before the revolution of another year some settled order of things
will take place, which will render any measures on the part of
the United States in favor of their Netherland creditors unne-
cessary. I suspect that the impossibility of obtaining the two
million guilders here must arise altogether from the dread of con-
fiscation or requisition to which they imagine their obligations
may be liable.

I have the honor to be, with the highest sentiments of respect,
Sir, your very obedient, humble servant,

John Q. Adams.

Hamilton to Washington.

Treasury Department, Dec. 23, 1794.

Sir :

The present state and prospects of the Treasury render it ne-
cessary, without delay, to exercise the power vested in the Pres-
ident by the act passed the 18th instant, entitled " An act author-
izing a loan of two millions of dollars."

To enable him to determine this, a probable view of receipts
and expenditures distributed quarter-yearly is herewith present-
ed, and the form of a power as usual to the Secretary of the
Treasury to make the loan is submitted.
With perfect respect, &c.

^T. 38.] CABINET PAPERS. 61

PROCLAMATION.

Draft by Hamilton.

United States, January 1, 1795.
By George Washington^ President of the United States.

When we review tlie calamities whicli afflict so many other
nations, and trouble the sources of individual quiet, security, and
happiness, the present condition of the United States aifords
much matter of consolation and satisfaction.

Our exemption hitherto from the evils of foreign war, an in-
creasing prospect of the continuance of that precious exemption,
the great degree of internal tranquillity we have enjoyed, the
recent confirmation of that tranquillity by the suppression of an
insurrection which so wantonly threatened it ; the happy course
of our public affairs in general ; the unexaMpled prosperity of
all classes of our citizens ; are circumstances which mark our
situation with peculiar indications of the Divine beneficence
towards us.

In such a state of things, it is in an especial manner our
duty as a people, with devout reverence and affectionate grati-
tude, to acknowledge our many and great obligations to Almighty
God, and to implore Him to continue and confirm the blessings
we experience.

Deeply penetrated with this sentiment, I, George Washington,
President of the United States, do recommend to all religious
societies and denominations, and to all persons whomsoever in
the United States, to set apart and observe Thursday, the 19th
day of February next, as a day of public thanksgiving and
prayer, and on that day to meet together and render their sin-
cere and hearty thanks to the great Euler of nations, for the
manifold and signal mercies which distinguish our lot as a nation,
particularly for the constitutions of government which unite, and
by their union establish liberty with order for the preservation
of our peace, foreign and domestic, for the seasonable check
which has been given to a spirit of disorder, in the suppression

62 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

of tlie late insurrection, and generally, for tlie prosperous course
of our affixirs, public and private ; and at the same time humbly
and fervently to beseech the kind Author of these blessings gra-
ciously to prolong them to us ; to imprint in our hearts a deep
and solemn sense of our obligations for them ; to teach us rightly
to estimate their immense value ; to preserve us from the wan-
tonness of prosperity from jeopardizing the advantages we enjoy,
by culpable or delusive projects ; to dispose us to merit the con-
tinuance of His favors by not abusing them, by our gratitude for
them, and by a correspondent conduct as citizens and as men to
render this country more and more a safe and propitious asylum
for the unfortunate of other countries ; to extend among them
true and useful knowledge ; to diifuse and establish habits of so-
briety, order, morality, and piety : and finally, to impart all the
blessings we possess or ask for ourselves, to the whole family of
Mankind, that so men may be happy and God glorified through-
out the earth. Dgne, &c.

WASHINGTON TO CONGRESS.

United States, January 7, 1795,
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of the House of Representatives.

Experience has shown that it would be useful to have an
officer particularly charged, under the direction of the Depart-
ment of "War, with the duties of receiving, safe keeping, and
distributing the public supplies, in all cases in which the laws
and the course of service do not devolve them upon other ofl&cers ;
and also with that of superintending in all cases the issues in
detail of supphes, with power, for that purpose, to bring to ac-
count all persons intrusted to make such issues, in relation
thereto.

An establishment of this nature, by securing a regular and
punctual accountability for the issues of public supplies, would
hQ a great guard against abuse, would tend to insure their due
application, and to give public satisfaction on that point.

^T. 38.] CABINET PAPERS. 63

I therefore recommend to the consideration of Congress, the
expediency of an establishment of this nature, under such regu-
lations as shall appear to them advisable.

G-. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Jan. 12th, 1795,

Sir:

For a considerable time past the Commissioner of Loans for
New- York, has labored under a degree of bodily infirmity, little
suited to the arduous duties of his station. A belief that his
demise would speedily have terminated the embarrassment,
united with other considerations, has hitherto prevented me from
ofl&cially representing his situation to you, and the possible incon-
venience to the public service from it. Hitherto nothing has
materially suffered. But some new shocks of his complaint have
added to his inability, and the disease being of the paralytic
kind, there is no prospect of any considerable amendment.

Fearing that the public service may henceforth suffer, and
unwilling to leave to my successor a disagreeable task, I feel it a
duty, though with extreme regret and reluctance, to state to you
that the ofl&cer in question is now incapable of doing justice to
the duties of his station ; that there is no prospect of his restora-
tion to a competent condition, and that in my opinion it is indis-
pensable he should be changed with all convenient dispatch.
With perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

January 14th, 1795,
Mr. Hamilton presents his respects to the President. He has
written the letter to Mr. Clarkson, which the President desired,

64 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

and wliicli, if not countermanded, will go by post. But, in the
course of writing it, the following reflection has pressed upon his
mind with so much force that he thinks it his duty to submit it
to the President.

Clarkson held the office of marshal, a troublesome and ^un-
profitable place. He resigned it (as it is believed) in a short
time. Giles has taken and kept it for a considerable time, and
during a j)eriod when disagreeable things were to be done, no
doubt looking forward to something better. Clarkson is a man
of considerably better fortune, and smaller family than Giles.
Giles is as capable and trustworthy as Clarkson. Will he not
have some cause to be dissatisfied if he sees an opportunity of
doing something for him turn to the benefit of his predecessor ?

No answer is expected unless the President should change his
view of the subject.

CLARKSOISr TO HAMILTON.

New-York, January 19th, 17S5.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 15th instant met me last Saturday at this
place on my return from Poughkeepsie. The offer of the office
of Commissioner of Loans by the President of the United States,
demands my warmest acknowledgments and meets my wishes

provided the appointment can be deferred until the 27th

instant. To you, sir, I will detail my reasons for wishing a post-
ponement of it till that period. Being a member of the legisla-
ture for this State, and the appointment of Senator of the United
States being fixed by law to the 27th instant, I conceive it of
the utmost importance that the gentleman who has so faithfully
served his country in that station should be re-elected. The ac-
ceptance of the office previous to that day, would vacate my seat
in the Senate, and I have reason to believe, as relative to that
business, it is of consequence that I should remain in the legisla-
ture. Indeed, sir, I consider it of so much importance, that

jet.zs.] cabinet papers. 65

however desirous I may be of tlie office whicli the President "has
thought proper to offer me, I must not hesitate to say that if a
new appointment presses, so as to preclude the postponement of
it to the period mentioned in my letter, I consider it my duty to
sacrifice my own good to what I conceive for the good of my
country, and to decline the appointment. In either case, sir, be
pleased to tender my best acknowledgments to the President for
this mark of his confidence, which, under his administration, is
rendered peculiarly valuable ; and accept for yourself the best
wishes of one who, with real esteem, has the honor of being your
obliged friend and very humble servant.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, January 21, 1795.

Sir:

Pursuant to the 13th section of the act, entitled " An act
making further provision for securing and collecting the duties
on foreign and domestic distilled spirits, stills, wines, and teas,"
passed the 5th of June, 1794, the commissioner of the revenue,
in consultation with me, has prepared a plan for additional com-
pensations to the supervisors and other officers of inspection, and
for compensations to such new officers of these descriptions as
result from the laws, and as the experience which has been had
of their operation is believed to recommend ; which plan, thrown
into the usual form of an act of the President, is now submitted
to his consideration, with estimates of the resulting expense,
which, it is not doubted, will be found within the limits of the
laws.

This plan has been delayed longer than was desirable, by
the necessity of previous information from the supervisors, and
by an excess of occupation on the officers in this department,
which unavoidably postpones the less to the more urgent objects
of public business.
E 5

66 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

It may happen that the President, after considering the plan,
may desire some further explanation. For this purpose, I will
•wait upon him on Monday next, 12 o'clock.

"With perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WILLINK, ETC.

Treasury Department, January 25th, 1795.

Gentlemen :

I acknowledge the receipt of your letters of the first and
twenty-sixth of September of the last year.

Eemittances from this country to Amsterdam, at the present
juncture, and with the anticipations here of your possible situa-
tion, are attended with unusual difficulty and embarrassment.
After maturely considering all the modes which occurred to re-
flection, for effecting the payments of principal and interest on
the first of June next, I have concluded on the following :

To purchase 500,000 dollars of 6 per cent, stock, to transfer
them into your names, and to send them to our Minister Pleni-
potentiary in London, to wait your orders, to the end that you
may cause them to be disposed of as, according to circumstances,
shall appear to you advisable. Measures have been taken for
this purpose. The numbers and particular amounts of the cer-
tificates of stock, are noted at foot. They will be forwarded in
duplicates.

You will concert, with our Minister resident in Holland, the
best mode of disposing of this stock ; and if the market of Lon-
don be preferable, you will forward there the necessary powers
and directions for sale of so much as it shall be concluded to sell,
according to eventual circumstances.

If the stock can be sold, so as to net par for principal and
interest to the time of sale, this will be the most agreeable mode of
proceeding. By par, I mean 40 current guilders at Amsterdam,
or 4 shillings and 6 pence sterling, at London, per dollar ; pre-

^T. 38.]

CABINET PAPERS. 67

ferring, of course, the sale at one place or the other, as the state
of exchange may render most for the interest of the United
States, if events of war do not overrule this consideration.

If this cannot be done, it will be preferred, if practicable,
that the instalment of one million of principal should be post-
poned by a new loan, as on a former occasion ; in which case,
the interest only will be to be provided for by sale of so much
stock as may be necessary.

On this, as on all other occasions, I confide in your judgment
and tried zeal for the interest of the United States. I am sure I
rest on a good foundation to the utmost extent of possibility.

With great consideration and esteem,

I have the honor to be, gentlemen, your obd't serv't.

P. S. It is possible our Minister, Mr. Pinckney, may have
left London, temporarily, for Madrid. In that case, his secre-
tary will become possessed of my letter and directions to him,
and will receive your communication.

Description of the stock mentioned in the foregoing letter,

VIZ.

One hundred certificates of 6 per cent, stock, No. 2911 to
8010, both numbers inclusive, dated the 31st January, 1795, and
of five thousand dollars each, issued in the names of Wilhelm
and Jan Willink, and Nicholas and Jacob Van Staphorst and
Hubbard, agents for the United States at Amsterdam.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, January 26th, 1795.

Sir:

Mr. Wolcott has just informed me that the Secretary of
State had called upon him as by your direcion, to confer on the

68 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. ^8.

subject of a person to be appointed comptroller, in the event of
his appointment as Secretary of the Treasury ; and intimated
that you had concluded to take some gentleman from the south ;
that Mr, Habersham (brother of the collector of Savanah) was
more particularly in your eye, and that if he or I had any differ-
ent view of the subject, it was your wish that it might be speedily
communicated, as you were desirous of coming to a conclusion.

This I accordingly feel it my duty to do.

It is of the greatest importance to the proper conducting the

business of the Treasury Department that the comptroller should

?/ be a man of the following discription : of strong sense, of clear

' discernment, sound judgment, indefatigable industry, firmness

and prompt decision of temper; possessing a comprehensive

knowledge of accounts, and of course good principles.

As well from the nature of the office as from the particular
situation of the department, as it will stand at the moment of
my resignation, it is of peculiar consequence that there should
be no mistake in the selection of the proper character for comp-
troller. It will be easy for the de]3artment to run into disorder if
such a mistake should happen.

From all the light I have been able to obtain on the subject,
though it results in a favorable impression of Mr. Habersham
generally, yet it leaves a considerable doubt on my mind that he
would be an eligible appointment as comptroller of the Treasury.
I cannot, therefore, add my opinion to the rest of the opinions
which may favor it.

There is one gentleman south, whom I have before men-
tioned, of whose fitness in every respect, from trial of him in dif-
ferent public situations, it appears to me impossible to entertain
a doubt — I mean Colonel Edward Carrington. I will pledge my
reputation to the President for his proving, if appointed, an ex-
cellent comptroller, and a valuable acquisition to the department.

I have fully reflected on the objection which, from the
distributive geographical rule, is supposed to be against him —
and I beg leave to submit, as my opinion, that it ought not to be
conclusive. This rule is doubtless a good one ; but if carried so
far as to hazard the appoiiftment of unqualified persons to ofl&ces

iET. 38.] CABINET PAPERS. 69

of material importance to the general administration of the gov-
ernment, it will become a bad one, sacrificing primary to second-
ary considerations.

I have offered my opinion with the less reserve, because I
ought to be explicit, in a case not only of much moment to the
public service, but where the arrangements which may be made
may, naturally from situation^ be presumed to have had the con-
currence of my o|)inion, and where, therefore, my reputation is
more particularly concerned.

With perfect respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

January 31, 1795.

Sm:

I have the honor to send you the copy of a letter of the 27th
instant, from the collector of Philadelphia ; of another letter of
the 30th ultimo, from that officer, to the attorney of the district
of Pennsylvania, and of a deposition of Charles Homes, taken
before Judge Peters.

These documents establish an improper attempt of Mr. Petri,
the French Consul, to evade a law of the United States, and
allow a suspicion of the privity of a higher official character.
It is impossible to avoid the reflection that there is too much
connection between the affair of the powder and the unlawful
equipment of the privateer Les Jumeaux. I fear that agents of
France have not ceased to countenance proceedings which not
only contravene our neutrality, but may prove a source of very
serious expense to the United States.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, &;c.

70 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Jan. 31, 1795.

Sir:

Previous to the leaving my present office, there are a few
points which I think it my duty to bring under the consideration
of the President.

The first regards the jDresent state and arrangement of the
mint.

It is certain that this establishment is capable of producing
very important benefits to the community. At this moment, when
an unusually large and sudden exportation of silver has produced
a very inconvenient scarcity of that species of money, the full
activity of the mint would be of primary utility. Large quanti-
ties of silver lie in the banks and other places in ingots, which,
if turned into coin, would be of the greatest advantage to trade,
and to all pecuniary operations public and private.

Hitherto the mint has comparatively done nothing. This is
matter both of surprise and complaint with all that part of the
community whose dissatisfactions are the less known, because
they are not lightly promulgated. The institution itself, by not
fulfilling the public expectation, grows into discredit, and those
who have had the principal agency in its establishment are
wounded by a growing disrepute, which is attributable truly to
an insufficient execution. The President probably knows better
than I do, what have been the causes of the deficiency. They
may afford a justification ; but, uninformed as I am, I cannot
help thinking that with due exertion the business of the mint
might have been far more matured, and its present powers of
action far greater than they are. And I am led to fear that as
long as it continues under its present management the public
expectation will be disappointed. The director, though a most
respectable and excellent man, can hardly be expected on several
accounts to give that close and undivided attention to it, which
in its first stages is indispensable.

There is another point in relation to the same subject, on

JEt. 38. 1 CABINET PAPERS. 71

wliich I sliould have been silent as long as I could have been
supposed to have any personal motive to influence my opinion.
But now that this is at an end, I yield without hesitation to my
convictions of the public interest, in presenting with the greatest
deference those convictions to the consideration of the President,
They amount to this, that the mint establishment will be most
advantageously for the service of the United States placed under
the superintendence of the department of the Treasury,

It is obvious that that establishment forms a most material
link in the money system of the country. This system, as it
regards public operations, is in the management of the depart-
ment of the Treasury. It follows, that in the theory of the case,
there is an intimate relation between this department and that
establishment.

The law constituting the mint, also establishes some relations
between them.

The fifth section refers to the judgment of the Secretary of
the Treasury, the competency of the sureties to be given by the
officers of the mint.

The fourteenth section, providing for the exchange of the
bullion for money, with the deduction of one-half per cent,,
towards defraying the expenses of the mint, makes it the duty
of the Secretary of the Treasury to furnish the mint from time
to time, whenever the state of the Treasury will admit of it, with
such sums as may be necessary for effecting those exchanges.
To engage the Secretary to dispossess the Treasury with confi-
dence of large sums for such exchanges, it is necessary that he
should be very certain of their regular and punctual return.
The assurance of this would be not a little strengthened by that
intimate knowledge of situation which would result from the
duty of superintending. The efficient operation of this provision
is of uo small consequence to the economy of the establishment.
Hitherto its situation has been such as to preclude absolutely the
effect of it.

Moreover, the Secretary of the Treasury, called daily and ha-
bitually, to observe the progress of money transactions, awake to
every thing which can affect them well or ill, because the credit

72 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 38.

of lais department depends upon it, must be more likely tlian any
other officer, to feel a due sensibility to the efficient and proper
course of the mint, and consequently to exert himself to give it
such a course.

The Post Office, on the other hand, if the idea which has re-
peatedly appeared in Congress be adhered to, that of rendering
it an instrument of the improvement of the public roads instead
of a means of revenue, may without inconvenience be placed
under the department of State, while the mint establishment is
transferred to the Treasury.

These observations proceed on the supposition that the Presi-
dent has adopted in principle and practice, the plan of distribu-
ting all the particular branches of the public service, except that
of the law, among the three great departments ; a plan which is ,
believed to be founded on good reasons.

Another point, to which I would invite the attention of the
President, is the scheme of mounted volunteers, as established
in the law, and as it has operated in practice.

The expense of it is enormous, and from the nature of the
thing, has a tendency to continue so. Though the compensation
of a dollar per man is not fixed absolutely, but as a limit not to
be exceeded, the effect is, that extent of the sum is expected^ and
that from this expectation, the men could not probably be ob-
tained for less. The Executive, too, in an emergent service, will
never be willing to incur the responsibility of failing by a re-
striction of the sum, and thus the ultimatum becomes the ordi-
nary rule.

It will be happy if a revision of the measures for defensive
protection should issue in a conviction, that the number of vol-
unteer horse can be reduced by a substitution of infantry. It
is imagined that on calculation it would appear, that a more
than proportional increase of infantry would cost less.

In the last place, I beg leave to submit an impression, that
advantages would accrue, in the view of economy at least, if the
agents for Indian affairs, in the Southwestern and Northwest-
ern Territories, were distinct from the Governors. These might
still retain the political direction of affairs, and there would result
a check in the business of supplies.

^T. 38.] CABINET PAPERS. TS

HAMILTON TO WILLINK, ETC.

Treasury Department, Jan. 31, 1795.

Gentlemen :

It is probable that before this readies you, you -will have
heard of my determination to resign my office of Secretary of
the Treasury as on this day. The event will accordingly take
place.

I could not permit myself to renounce my official situation
without placing among my last acts the expression of the high
sense 1 continue to entertain of the fidelity and ability with
which you have uniformly served the United States. This tes-
timony is due to you, and it is with great pleasure I give it.

The gentleman whom the President has determined to nomi-
nate as my successor, and who will be no doubt appointed, is
Oliver Wolcott, Esquire, the present Comptroller of the Treasu-
ry. I do him no more than justice by assuring you, that he is a
gentleman of undoubted intelligence, probity, and good princi-
ples with regard to public credit. The confidence of yourselves
and your countrymen may be safely reposed in him.

With sincere wishes for your future welfare, and with in-
creased consideration and esteem,

I am, gentlemen, your most obedient servant,

Alex. Hamilton.

Messrs. Wilhelm & J. Willink, and

Nicholas & J. Van Staphorst & Hubbard.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Treasury Department, Jan. 31, 1795.

Sir:

Agreeably to the intimation heretofore given, I have the
honor now to tender you my resignation of the office of Secreta-

74 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

ry of tlie Treasury, and to be with sincere respect and affection-
ate attachment, Sir,

Your most obedient and humble servant, &c.

The President of the United States.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Sunday, 1st February, 1795.

Dear Sir :

I received the inclosed letter, with the document therein, last
night.

For reasons which will appear obvious, I make you acquainted
with the contents of them — being yours,

G. Washington.

Endorsement on this letter hy A. H. —

This covered a letter from Mr. Coxe, of the 31st January,
1795, containing a charge against Mr. Wolcott, for my having
committed to him, and he having exercised, the duties of Secre-
tary of the Treasury in my absence on the western expedition.

A. H.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Feb. 2, 1795.

Dear Sir:

After so long an experience of your public services, I am
naturally led, at this moment of your departure from office —
which it has always been my wish to prevent — to review them.

In every relation, which you have borne to me, I have found
that my confidence in your talents, exertions and integrity, has
been well placed.

yET. 38.]

CABINET PAPERS. 75

I the more freely render this testimony of my approbation,
because I speak from opportunities of information which cannot
deceive me, and which furnish satisfactory proof of your title to
public regard.

My most earnest wishes for your happiness will attend you
in your retirement, and you may assure yourself of the sincere
esteem, regard and friendship of
Dear Sir,

Your affectionate

Gr. Washington.

Alexander Hamilton, Esq.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, February 3d, 1795.

Sir:

My particular acknowledgments are due for your very kind
letter of yesterday. As often as I may recall the vexations I
have endured, your approbation will be a great and precious con-
solation.

It was not without a struggle that I yielded to the very urgent
motives which impelled me to relinquish a station in which I
could hope to be in any degree instrumental in promoting the
success of an administration under your direction, a struggle
which would have been 'far greater, had I supposed that the pros-
pect of future usefulness was proportioned to the sacrifices to be
made.

Whatsoever may be my destination hereafter, I entreat you to
be persuaded (not the less for my having been sparing in pro-
fessions) that I shall never cease to render a just tribute to those
eminent and excellent qualities which have been already pro-
ductive of so many blessings to your country ; that you will al-
ways have my fervent wishes for your public and personal fe
licity, and that it will be my pride to cultivate a continuance of
that esteem, regard, and friendship, of which you do me the

76 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

honor to assure me. With, true respect and affectionate attach-
ment,

I have the honor to be,

Sir, your obhged, and ob't servant,

A. Hamilton.

The President of the United States.

WILLING TO HAMILTON.

Bank United States, Feb. 3d, 1795.

Sir:

The President and Directors of the Bank of the United States
acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 31st ult., and feel
with peculiar sensibility the notification of your resignation;
with sincerity they offer their best wishes, that you may be as
happy in private, as your administration has rendered you use-
ful in public life.

They recollected, with extreme satisfaction, the liberal and
enlightened principles on which you have conducted the great
and various operations of your department with this institution :
such as tend to cement a connection which it is their mutual in-
terest to maintain, and which can only be permanent whilst
founded on reciprocal advantage.

It must be to you a source of the most pleasing sensations to
reflect on the extensive utility of an institution which you had
such an essential agency in organizing, which has been strikingly
evident as well in the aid it has afforded to the fiscal administra-
tion, as in the important support it has given to public and pri-
vate credit.

They will again recur to the consideration of the propriety of
establishing a branch in Virginia, and if it should appear that the
advantages that will result therefrom, will supersede the obsta-
cles and inconveniences that have hitherto retarded the opera-
tion, they will not hesitate in carrying it into prompt effect.
In discussing the subject, the arguments which you have suggest-

,Et. 38;] CABINET PAPERS. 11

ed, and which have been derived from experience, will have
their due weight in influencing their determination. They an
ticipate with confidence, in the person who is contemplated by
the President as your successor, the possession of those qualities
which will lay claim to every facility and support, which an at-
tention to the interests of their constituents, combined with a
wish to promote the public service, will enable the President and
Directors to afford.

In behalf of the President and Directors of the Bank of the
United States.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, February 4th, 1795.

Sir:

The circumstance of having offered my late report to Con-
gress to the two Houses, which rendered two copies necessary,
and the extreme press of business in the of&ce, in preparing for
my resignation, prevented my sending you a manuscript copy of
that report.

I have now corrected a printed copy for you, which I have
the honor to send herewith.

With true respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, February 12th, 1796.

Sir:

I have maturely reflected on the subject of the within paperis.
I do not hesitate to give^t as my opinion, that if it were not for

"fS HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

very peculiar 'personal circumstances, tile fittest arrangement,
upon tlie whole, would be to consign the temporary execution
of the comptroller's office to the commissioner of the revenue.
But I could not advise this, because it could not fail, for strong
reasons, to be unpleasant to Mr. Wolcott, and because there is
real danger that Mr. Coxe would first perplex and embarrass,
and afterwards misrepresent and calumniate.

The treasurer would by no means answer ; because, as the
keeper of the money^ it is particularly essential that all the checks
upon him should be maintained in full vigor ; and the comptrol-
ler is the officer who, in the the last resort, settles his accounts as
well as concurs, in the first instance, in authorizing^ by the war-
rants which are issued by the secretary, and countersigned by
the comptroller, the payments and receipts of the treasurer.

The register is also one of the principal checks of the depart-
ment; first, upon the secretary and comptroller, whose warrants
he must register and sign, before they can take effect; and,
secondly, upon the settlements of the comptroller and auditor,
by recording their acts, and entering them on the books to the
proper accounts.

Of any of the officers of the department, except the commis-
sioner of the revenue, the business can be best managed through
the auditor, consistently with the preservation of the most mate-
rial checks, with the restriction I mentioned this morning, of his
not deciding^ as comptroller^ upon any account he may have settled as
auditor. The temporary suspension of the final conclusion of
the accounts — all the previous examinations going on — cannot
be attended with any serious inconvenience. If the laws admit
of it (which I doubt, as they now stand), the appointment of the
auditor's first clerk to act as auditor in his stead will be a con-
veniency. I do not think this would be liable to the same ob-
jections as the appointing a clerk to act as comptroller, whose
office imports the second trust in the department. In one sense,
to appoint the auditor to act as comptroller will comport best
with the spirit of the constitution of the department. This is,
that the officer ivho is to settle the accounts, by countersigning the
warrants for receipts and payments, shall have an opportunity to

^T. 38.] CABINET PAPERS. 79

observe their conformity with the course of business, as it ap-
pears in the accounts ; and shall have notice, in the first in-
stance, of all payments and receipts, in order to the bringing all
persons to account for public moneys. This reason operates to
make the auditor, who is the coadjutor of the comptroller in
settlements, his most fit substitute in this particular view.

On the whole, I am of opinion that it is most advisable to
appoint the auditor.

A clerk, for reasons already mutually adverted to, does not
appear to me expedient.

I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your affectionate and obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. The restriction above suggested, for greater caption,
had best be in writing, in a letter to the Secretary of the
Treasury. The instrument appears to me in proper form.

BIRD, SAVAGE AND BIRD, TO HAMILTON.

LoND )N, February 23d, 1795.

Sir:

In your retreat from the oflSLce of Secretary of the United
States, it can be of little moment to you to have any addition
to the public and private testimonies you have received of the
high opinion your country entertains of your distinguished in-
tegrity and abilities, which have been so successfully employed
in restoring her public credit, and placing it on the most favor-
able footing to her future prosperity. We cannot, however, re-
fuse ourselves the gratification of communicating to you the ap-
plause that the wisdom of your financial measures hus procured
from all persons in this country, where the subject is so well
known and understood.

Joining in the general regret at your retreat, we beg leave to

80 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \JE.t.31.

offer you our best services, in whatever future walk of life you
may fix on, and, with great respect, Sir,

Your most obedient servants,

BiED, Savage & Bird.

COMMEECIAL EELATIONS.

OUTLINE OF smith's SPEECH ON MADISON's RESOLUTIONS OF
JANUARY 3, 1794

Draft by Hamilton.

January, 1794.

The table which is annexed takes the year 1790 as the pro-
per period to show the commercial policy of France previous to
the revolution just terminated. The notes accompanying that
table explain the alterations which have since taken place. There
is, however, no mention of the expiration of the time limited
for the premium on French fish imported into the French colo-
nies, which happened in 1790, because this makes no alteration
in the general complexion of the policy of France in this parti-
cular. It is usual for greater caution to limit the duration of
premiums to a certain period, even where it is supposed that a
further continuation may be necessary, and if the premim in
question has not been removed, it affords no proof of an inten-
tion to relincjuish it, as the situation of France at the time of the
cessation, and since, may be presumed to have precluded arrange-
ments affecting the trade of the colonies.

If any have been made, it may be inferred from Commeres'
pamphlet, that though the duty on foreign fish has been reduced
from three to five livres, the premium on French fish has been
raised from ten to twelve, which makes the aggregate of duty
and premium, operating as a bounty on French fish, the same as
before, namely, fifteen livres.

^T. 37.] COMMERCIAL RELATIONS. 81

General Observations.

1. The commercial system of Great Britain makes no discri-
minations to the prejudice of the United States as compared with
other foreign powers.

There is therefore no ground for a complaint on the part of
the United States, that the system of Great Britain is particu-
larly injurious or unfriendly to them.

2. The commercial system of Great Britain makes important
discriminations in favor of the United States as compared with
other foreign nations. This is exemplified in the instance of to-
bacco, lumber, pot and pearl ash, tar and pitch, pig and bar iron,,
which, when carried from the United States to Great Britain, are
either exempt from duties, which are paid on the same articles
brought from other foreign countries, or pay so much less duty
as to give them a clear advantage in the competition for th&
British market. Our vessels in the direct trade with Great Britain^
are in various instances exempted from duties, which are paid
by the ships of other nations, and .in general are on the sam&
footing in that trade with the vessels of the British colonies.
Admission is also given to a variety of the commodities of the-
United States in the British West Indies, which is not given ta
similar commodities of other foreign countries.

There is therefore ground to assert, that the commercial sys-
tem of Great Britain is more favorable and friendly to the United
States than to other foreign countries.

3. The commercial system of France previous to the revolu-
tion, made fewer and less important discriminations in favor of
the United States, as compared with other foreign nations, than
that of Great Britain. In the West Indies our privileges were
the same. The same commodities only, and upon the same
terms, might be carried thither, and brought from thence from
and to the United States, which might be carried thither and
brought from thence from and to other foreign nations. The
discriminations in favor of the United States in direct trade with
France, are not known to have extended beyond the articles of

fish oils.

* -x- * -K- * *

82 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37

and vessels of tlie built of the United States when oivned by French
subjects, which were admitted to naturalization, and so far pro-
moted the building of ships as an article of trade with France.
This last discrimination is now abolished, and no new ones have
been made in our favor.

There is therefore ground to assert that the commercial sys-
tem of France towards the United States as compared with other
foreign nations, has been and now is less favorable and friendly
than that of Great Britain.

Particular Observations.

I. As to flour. This article, previous to the revolution in
France, was subject to but a very light duty on its importation
there. At present it is free to all the world. But unless mate-
rial changes take place in the state of France, the United States
are likely to derive little benefit from this circumstance.

The ordinary price of flour in France is about $5 66 cents per
barrel (of Pennsylvania).

In Pennsylvania it may be stated at upon an aver-

age; the freight to France is ; other charges

amount to about , which would make the costs

and charges of a barrel of American flour in France $6 33 cents;
of course it cannot, except on extraordinary occasions, be sent
there without loss.

In Great Britain it has been stated that flour was subject to a
prohibitory duty till the price there was about 48 shillings the
quarter. The flour of the United States can therefore only be
■ carried occasionally to Great Britain as well as to France, but
the occasions have hitherto been more frequent in Great Britain
than in France.

Accordingly, in the course of the years 1786 and 1788, the
whole quantity of flour sent from Pennsylvania to France
amounted to 2396 barrels ; that sent to Great Britain, to 828
barrels.

But the act of Parliament of the , puts this article

upon a worse footing than heretofore, and experience only can
decide, whether flour can be henceforth sent with most advan-
. tage to Great Britain or to France.

^T. 37.] COMMERCIAL RELATIONS. 83

The quarter, however, which in relation to both nations, it
most interests the United States to have access to, as a market
for their flour, is the West India Islands. Here the comparison
is decidedly in favor of Great Britain. The general system of
France, is to prohibit the reception of our flour in her West India
markets — that of Great Britain to permit it.

It is true, that occasional suspensions of the prohibition take
place ; but these suspensions being confined to cases of necessity,
the system of France, tuhich excludes us as far as possible, cannot
on this account be viewed as less unfavorable to the United
States, than if no such suspensions took place.

Flour appears to be the principal staple of the United States.
This principal staple, is, upon the whole, more favored by the
regulations of Great Britain than of France. Accordingly, in
the year 1790, the exportations to the British dominions, amount-
ed to 11,534,276; to the French dominions to $1,483,195.
The comparison is the stronger in favor of Great Britain, from
the circumstance, that this year was one of extreme scarcity in
France. In ordinary years, the difi:erence must be far greater.

II. As to tobacco. It may be presumed, that this is an arti-
cle of such a nature, that it is immaterial to the United States,
what duty is laid upon it in either of the two countries, if the
same duties affect all other imported tobacco. 'Tis a case in
which neither of the countries produces itself the article, to enter
into competition with that of the United States. The duty, there-
fore, must essentially fall upon the buyers, not the sellers.

Previous to the French Eevolution, there was no import duty
in France, upon tobacco, but it was under a monopoly of the
Farmers General ; a situation far more disadvantageous to the
United States, than any tolerable duty could be, by destroying
a free competition among purchasers.

The decree of January, 1791, has laid a duty upon this arti-
cle, if brought from the United States to France in American
vessels, of 25 livres per kental ; if brought in French ships, of
only 18 livres and 15 sous. The tobacco of the United States
has been, and is, upon no better footing, than that of some other
foreign nations.

84 HAMILTON'S WORKS, [^t. 37.

In Great Britain, as has been stated, a considerably bigber
duty is paid on other foreign tobacco, tban on tbat of the United
States ; and it may be carried to Great Britain, in vessels of tbe
United States, upon tbe same terms as in Britisb bottoms, while
tbe ships of other nations, bringing tobacco, are subjected to a
greater duty on the tobacco which they bring than the ships
of Great Britain.

Although, therefore, there is a higher duty on tobacco in
Great Britain than in France ; yet as in France the duty is the
same on other foreign tobacco as on ours ; as in Great Britain a
liigher duty is charged on other foreign tobacco than upon ours ;
as the comparative rate, not the quantum of the duty in either
country, is the only thing which concerns us, it is evident that
our tobacco is much more favored by Great Britain than by
France. Indeed the difference of duty operates as a positive
bounty upon the tobacco of the United States.

As it regards our navigation, the comparison is still more
striking. Here, too, we are more favored by Great Britain than
other countries ; while the existing regulation of France is in
the degree the most exceptionable to be found in the code of
any country. It amounts to a prohibition of carrying our own
tobacco to France in our own ships.

Several European nations have aimed at a monopoly of tbe
carrying trade of their colonies, but the spirit has not extended
to their home dominions. Slight differences have been made be-
tween foreign and national ships in favor of the latter ; but a
difference amounting to an exclusion of the former is perhaps
without example, except in the regulation in question.

The principle of this regulation would prostrate the naviga-
tion of the United States more effectually than any which is to
be found in the system of any other country.

Hence, in respect to the article of tobacco, the staple of the
United States which may be deemed second in importance, th 3
regulations of Great Britain are far more favorable than those of
France.

Great Britain took from us in the year 1790, $2,777,808,
while Franca took only $427,746.

^T. 37.] COMMERCIAL RELATIONS. 85

Hence also it appears that Great Britain is a far better cus-
tomer for the article than France.

III. As to fish and fish oil. The regulations of France as to
these articles are incomparably more favorable in their operation
than those of Great Britain, though there is no material differ-
ence in principle.

Great Britain lays a prohibitory duty on oil, which excludes
all but the finest kinds occasionally, and absolutely prohibits fish.

France lays such duties on the fish and oil of other countries,
and grants such premiums and encouragements in relation to the
products of her own fisheries, as amount completely to a prohibi-
tion, so far as her capacity to supply her own dominions extends.

The duty on foreign fish in the French West Indies, and the
premium on French fish, as stated in the table, amount virtually
to a bounty on French fish of nearly 100 per cent, of the value.
In France the duty alone is about 75 per cent,, and it is under-
stood that the premiums andbounties in favor of the French fish-
eries are enormous.

The distinctions, nevertheless, which have been made in favor
of the whale fisheries of the United States have been of material
aid to them ; but there is reason to apprehend that the means
which have been successfully used to detach our fishermen, and
the vast encouragements which are given by the government,
that the whale fishery of France is establishing itself on the ruins
of that of the United States.

The cod fishery stands on a different footing. Our natural
advantages are so great as to render it difiicult to supplant us;
but as far as we have been able to maintain, in this respect, a com-
petition with the French fisheries in the French markets, it is to
be attributed to their incapacity to supply themselves, which
has counteracted the effect of a system manifestly prohibitory in
its principle.

The real spirit of the system of France on this head, not
only appears from what has been done, but from the manner of
doing it.

In August, 1784, the arret giving admission \o foreign fish in

86 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

the West India markets was passed. In September, 1785, an-
other arret was passed, granting a premium of ten livres per
kental on French fish. Seven days after, so great was the anx-
iety, another arret was passed raising the duty on foreign fish
from tliree to five livres. An arret of the 29th of December, 1787,
grants a right of storing for six months in France all the produc-
tions of the United States, in order to re-exportation, paying only
a duty of one per cent. In February following, another arret
passed, excepting from this right all the products of the fisheries
evidently from a jealousy of our interference with the French
fisheries.

A further explanation of the spirit of the French system on
this point, is to be found in the passage of a report to the Na-
tional Assembly,in the year 1789, from the Committees of Agri-
culture and Commerce. After stating a diminution of the pro-
duct of the French cod fishery, during the year 1789, the report
proceeds thus : " This diminution ought to be attributed to the
collusion of the English and free Americans who contrived to
disappoint the French fisheries, by finding means to supply us
with their fish, while they eluded the payment of the duty imposed
on importation, in order to establish a preference in favor of the cod
of the French fishery.

But however similar the principle of the French and English
regulations may be, in regard to their fisheries, the result to the
United States is vastly different.

The dominions of France take of the fisheries of the United
States to the extent of $724,224 ; those of Great Britain to the
extent only of $88,371.

IV. As to wood, particularly lumber. The regulations of
France have not made, and do not make, any distinction as to the
articles of this kind in favor of the United States.

Those of Great Britain make material distinctions in favor of
the United States and their ships, putting the citizens and ships
of the United States, in this respect, upon the same footing as
those of their own colonies, as far as regards the European
market.

.Et. 37.] COMMERCIAL RELATIONS. 87

Great Britain is also a much, better customer than France for
articles of this kind.

The amount in value taken from us by the dominions of the
former in 1790 was $622,635; that of the latter, $476,039.

V. As to rice. This article has stood and now stands upon a
better footing in France than in Great Britain, being free in the
former country, and subject to a high duty in the latter. And
there being no discrimination in either country in favor of the
rice of the United States.

It is to be observed, however, that as the article is produced
in neither country, and as the rice of the United States is
on the same footing in the British market as that of other coun-
tries, the observation made in respect to the duty on tobacco may
in some sort be applied to this article.

But it applies with far less force, because tobacco has no
competitor, while rice, as far as it is a substitute for bread or
vegetables, has competitors in all the articles which fall under
either description.

This article, however, stands upon a somewhat better footing
in the British than in the French West Indies, being free in the
former, and subject to a duty of one per cent, in the latter. The
difference, however, is not considerable.

The British dominions took in 1790 of this article, in value,
$953,939 ; the French, $322,926.

VI. As to grain, namely, wheat, rye, Indian corn, oats. As
they respect the European dominions of France and Great Britain,
they may be considered nearly in the same light with flour.

All these articles are free in the British "West Indies; wheat
and rye are prohibited in the French ; but Indian corn and oats
are admitted upon a duty of one per cent. The result upon the
whole is, that the English have been better customers than the
French.

The British dominions took of these articles in the year 1790,,
in value, $685,071 ; the French, $280,792.

The act of Parliament of

88 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

is likely to make a difference hereafter in the British European

market. According to that act

But experience alone can determine with certainty the effect.

VII. As to pot and pearlash. These articles have stood and
still stand upon a better footing by the British regulations than
by the French.

By the regulations of France, the pot and pearlash of other
countries are upon the same footing with those of the United
States.

By the regulations of Great Britain, those of the United
States are free, while those of other countries are subject to a duty
of about five per cent.

Great Britain, in 1790, took from the United States of these
articles in value $747,078 : France, $20,720.

YIII. As to indigo. This article (eighth in value of our ex-
ports) stands upon decidedly a better footing in the system of
Great Britain than in that of the United States. France is her-
self our competitor in the supply of her own market, and she
aims at securing to herself the monopoly of it, by adding to the
advantage of a superior quality of her own indigo, as stated by
the Secretary of State, the discouragement to ours of double the
duty paid on her own. Great Britain admits the article into
her home market free of duty. Both countries exclude it from
their West India markets. Neither make any distinction for or
against us. In 1790 Great Britain took of this article in value
$479,530: France, $12,649.

IX. As to live animals. The regulations of both countries
.may be considered as pretty equal in respect to these articles ;
the duty of one per cent, paid in the French West Indies, while
,none is paid in the English, being of no consequence in relation
.to articles in which the French themselves can maintain no com-
petition.

The dominions of France took in 1790 of these articles in
walue $362,795 : those of Great Britain, $62,415.

yET. 37.] COMMERCIAL RELATIONS. 89

X. As to naval stores, namely, pitch, tar, and turpentine,
the regulations of Great Britain are more favorable than those
of France ; for though the duties are higher in the former than
in the latter, yet France places these articles from all countries on
the same footing, while England lays higher duties on them
when brought from other countries, than when brought from the
United States. The difference as remarked in other cases is a
bounty upon the productions of the United States. The rate of
duty here is of no consequence for the reason assigned in respect
to tobacco. Great Britain, in 1790, took from us of these articles,
$196,832 : France, $7,366.

XI. As to salted provisions. The regulations of France as to
these articles are evidently more favorable than those of Great
Britain ; being tolerated by the former, and prohibited by the
latter.

The duties, however, are high, and even in respect to beef,
are a serious incumbrance upon the sale with a living profit.
In respect to pork, they amount essentially to a prohibition in
France, which has great means of internal supply, and in the
French West Indies the article is prohibited.

The dominions of France took of these articles in 1790, in
value $318,454 : those of Great Britain only $7,557.

XII. As to flax-seed. It does not appear that any difference
exists in the regulations of the two countries in respect to this
article, but Great Britain is by far the better customer. Her
dominions took in value in 1790, $219,924 : the French, $3,290.

XIII. As to iron. The regulations of Great Britain are more
favorable to the United States in respect to this article, than those
of France ; for France admits the iron of other countries upon
the same footing with that of the United States, and lays a small
duty upon bar iron.

Great Britain admits the iron of the United States free from
duty, and lays a considerable duty on the article brought from
other countries.

90 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

Great Britain took from us of this article in to tlie

amount of $196,832 : France to the amount of $2,143.

XIV. As to ships built in the United States. The regulations
of France did favor more the building of ships for sale than those
of Great Britain ; for ships built in the United States and pur-
chased by the French, were capable of being naturalized in
France. This distinction in our favor is now done away. In
England ships built in the United States have been and are enti-
tled to be recorded, and being recorded and owned by British
subjects, enjoy the same privilege as British built ships in the
trade between the United States and Great Britain.

A general distinction in favor of the United States runs
through the regulations of Great Britain in this particular, that
most articles of foreign countries brought in foreign ships, pay a
higher duty than if brought in British ships ; but not so of the
same articles if brought in ships of the United States.

In the West India trade of France, the United States stand
upon the same footing with other foreign nations — in one in-
stance, perhaps, upon a worse, as it regards the operation of the
thing — namely, as to salted beef, which though foreign^ if brought
from France in French ships, is exempted from the duty which
is paid on the same article carried from the United States directly
to the Islands. The proximity of Ireland to France seems to
render this an advantage to her over the United States.

In the West India trade of Great Britain, the United States
have the peculiar advantage of their commodities being intro-
duced upon the same footing as if brought from the British
dominions in America, except as to the article of carried

in ships of the United States. Here is a distinction in favor of
the United States.

Note. — Mr. Jefferson's table refers to an arret of 9th of May, 1789, as making
certain alterations in the trade of the United States with the French West Indies.

But this arret (which is merely an ordinance of the Governor General of St. Do-
mingo) is confined wholly to the south part of the Island of St. Domingo on very spe-
cial reasons relative to the improvement of that particular spot, and with very severe
restrictions to prevent an extension. It is no permanent part of the system of

JEt.31.] commercial RELATIONS. 91

France — no part of the general sj'stem of the West Indies, and is not linown to
have received the sanction of the king. It was, besides, passed at a moment of
revolution.*

* This paper contains the outline of the speech of Wm. Smith on the Madison
resolutions. It is incomplete— and the accuracy of the figures cannot be vouched
for, as they were supplied by the editor from that speech to fill up the blanks.
They are believed to be correct.
HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 37.

Comparative footing of the Commerce of the United States with the Do

FRANCE.

GREAT BRITAIN.

-

EXPORTS

FOOnXG.

DISCRIMINATIONS.

FOOTING.

msCK.MI>-.T,0«s

OP THE

UNITED STATES.

Favor of U. S.

Aj^ainst U. S.

Favor of U. S.

Against

Arranged accordinff to
their respective im-
portanee.

''^fkt

s

J_2
c ^

|||

— ^ ?

Bread Stuffs, sav
Flour

Duty Is. 8d. p. cf.,
ad valorem

Prohib. duties, (4>.
Do

Wheat ..•.

Do

Rye

Do

Do.

Indian Corn

Do

Do.

Oats

Do

Do

Tobacco

No duty but under
monopoly to the
Farmers General

Duty Is. 8d. per ct..
ad val

Dutyls.3d. p.lb.(c)
Duty 3s. 4d. p. ct..
Free

3s. 6d.

Rice

.■^s.lOd.
p.c.(d)
high &
fre.pr,..
duties.

Duty Is. 8d. per ct.

Duty 8 livres per.
kental (a)

Wood

Fisheries, viz :
Salted Fish

Prohibited

Fish Oil

Duty 7 liv. 10 sous
per barrel of 500
lb. (a)

prohi-
bited.

Duty of 18s. 3d. per
tun of 252 gal

Is. 8d. p. ct. ad val.

Pol and Pearl Ash.

o^ 3d

Duty 5 liv. p. kental

Duty 5 liv. p. ken-
tal in some ports,
prohib. in others.

Duty 5 liv. p. kental

per ct.

Salted Meats, viz :
Beef

Pork

Indigo

Free. .

J.ive animals

Fla.x-Seed

Duty Is. 8d. per. ct.
ad. val

Free

Naval Stores, viz :
Tar and Pitch

Duty 2^d p. ct., ad
val

Duty lis. per last. .
Diity2s. 3d. p.ct. int
Duty Is. 6d. do.

l'.'s.4d.

Do

Turpentine

I2s.9d.
per ct.
2s. 4d.

Do

Rosin

Iron

Do

Free...

5(is.2d

ST3.-2 p.3
569.6 p.3

Pig Iron

Do

Free

la all cases where nothing is inserted in a column und

/Ex. 37.]

COMMERCIAL RELATIONS.
/ France and Great Britain p^^or to the pending Revolution of France.

FRENCH WEST INDIES.

BRITISH WEST INDIES.

REMARKS.

DISCRIMINATIONS.

POOTIHG.

MSCErMIKATIONS.

(a) It is known
(though data for
stating them pre-
•isely are wanting) ,
that high premiums

Favor of U. S.

Against U. S.

Favor of U. S.

Against U. S.

OoTisa.

I'll
■- ? G

Lit

a.— 2:

''%'Z's

•3 ° £

=1

■2 g02

ill

d ^

— S
-= ^ r

lid
t. -

III

ill

n

III

a'

m French fish co-
operated with the
iiigh duty on ours to
exclude us as far as
|)0^sib!e, from the
market of France.

(i) Great Britain
lias two scales of
duties, one high the
other low ; the for-

ted

Free

Pro'd .
Do. .

mer prohibitory, the
latter not so ; but
these last apply only
when the price of

Do

the British article,

Do

Do. .

bv scarcity or e.xtra-

Do

Do. .

ordinarv demands is

Do

Do. .

particularly high,

ed

Free

Do. .

ihe rale was 48s. str.
the quarter, but a
late act has in-
creased it. The same

p. ct., ad val

p. ct.,ad val

liv. p. kent ,
a bounty of
. on French

Do

Do. .

act gives a right of
deposit or storing,

Do

Do. .

without paying the
high duties, with
permission to export

Prohibited

free from duties and
with the option of
waiting for the mar-
ket price to arrive at
the point at which

fd

Do

the low duties take

ed

Do

place. The same
system essentially

Do

extends to other
kinds of grain. <

Do

(c) The rates men-

ed

Do

tioned in this and
the adjoining col-
umn are sterling

ted

Prohibited

money.

Free

(d) These duties

ted

Prohibited

on several kinds of
wood are as folloAvs :

p. ct, ad val

Free

Pro'd .
Do. .

Oak boards from dis
iOd. to 105s. 8d. the
120. Ditto iilanks,
19*. the 50 cubic ft.

Do

Ditto timber 9s. ll(/.
the 50 cubic feet.

Do

Do. .

Deals from 53s. to
238s. the ]20. Staves

from 4s. to 17s. Gd.

ted

the 120. Timber

t*

Do

generally Os. 8d. the
50 cubic Jeet.

Discriminatio s " t is to be understocd that there are none.
HAMILTON'S WORKS

[^T. 37.

Comparative Footing of the Commerce of the United States with the Domi
of France and Great Britain prior to the pendinrj Revolution of France

FREXCH WEST INDIES.

BRITISH WEST INDIES.

fOOTING.

DISCRIMINATIONS.

FOOTING .

DISCRIMINATIONS.

IMPORTS

Favor of U. S.

Apiiinat U. S.

Favor of U. S.

Agains

PKOM THE FRENCH AND
ENGLISH WEST INDIES
INTO THE UNITED
STATES.

II
"S ° ^

'In ^
11.1

CQ

|l|

■11'*'
ffl'

Prohibited

Pro. to other
for. CO. ex
spec, which
isob. inEng

Duty 1 p. ct. ad val
Do
Molasses

Free from Grenada
and Jamaica

4.W p. ct, duty from
other islands

Prohib

sent

for. (

Do

to be
0 other

Do

Do.

Do

;:::

Do
Do

Do

Salt

Do

May be brought
from Turk's Island
in vessels of the
U. S., i)aying
duty of 2s. Grf.str.

Do

Other productions. .

Prohibited

Ships. — This article is to be viewed in a twofold light, as a saleable
manufacture and as a vehicle to convey the productions of the country.
The laws of France at the period to which this table refers, permitted
vessels built in the United States when purchased and owned by French
citizens to be naturalized, and thereby enjoy the privileges of French
vessels. The laws of Great Britain did not permit the same. Our
vessels owned by our own citizens in the trade between the United
States and France, enjoyed the same privileges with the most favored
nations, and not greater. In the trade between the United States and
Great Britain, they enjoyed equal privileges with British bottoms,
greater than the vessels of other foreign countries in the trade between
those countries and Great Britain (certain productions of those countries
being subject to higher duties when carried in their own than when
carried in British bottoms, which was and is not the case in* respect to
vessels of the United States carrying their own productions). In the
trade between the United States and the French West Indies, our ves-
sels of sixty tons and under might carry thither and bring from thence

iET,37.] ACT TO PUNISH CERTAIN CRIMES, 95

the articles permitted to be imported and exported — but other foreign
vessels enjoyed the same privilege with ours. Between the United
States and the British West Indies, our vessels could carry nothing ex-
cept salt from Turk's Island.

The arr^t of the 29th of December, 1787, gave the citizens of the
United States like privileges with French subjects in the Asiatic
dominions of France. It is also understood that our citizens enjoyed
useless privileges in the Asiatic dominions of Great Britain.

No notice is taken of the trade of exports from France and Grreat
Britain to the United States, because the policy of each country was in
that respect nearly similar and unexceptionable. The exceptions made
from time to time by the French Colonial Grovernment are not taken
notice of — because they were exceptions from the general system of the
mother country, founded on the necessity of particular emergencies.
The true complexion of a system is to be determined by the general
permanent rules which govern it — not by special exceptions from fortui-
tous circumstances and cases of necessity.

The special authorities upon which the foregoing table has been
formed are, with regard to France, the arret of the 29th of December,
1787. With regard to the French West Indies, the letters patent of
October, 1727, and the arrets of the oOth of August, 1784 — 18th and
25th of September, 1785. With regard to Grreat Britain, the procla-
mation of the 26th of December, 1783. yearly continued, explained by
sundry statutes. With regard to the British West Indies, the act of
parliament of the 28th of George III., chap. vi.

ACT TO PUNISH CERTAIN CRIMES,

June 5tli, 1794.

AN ACT IN ADDITION TO THE "ACT FOR THE PUNISHMENT OF
CERTAIN CRIMES AGAINST THE UNITED STATES."

1. Be it enacted, ttc, That if any citizen of the United States
shall, within the territory or jurisdiction of the same, accept and
exercise a commission to serve a foreign prince or state in war,
by land or sea, the person so offending shall be deemed guilty of
a high misdemeanor, and shall be fined not more than two
thousand dollars, and shall be imprisoned not exceeding three
years.

96 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 37.

2. That if any person shall, within the territory or jurisdic-
tion of the United States, enlist or enter himself, or hire or re-
tain another person to enlist or enter himself, or to go beyond
the limits or jurisdiction of the United States with intent to be
enlisted or entered, in the service of any foreign prince or state,
as a soldier, or as a marine or seaman, on board of any vessel of
war, letter of marque, or privateer ; every person so offending
shall be deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor, and shall be
fined not exceeding one thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not
exceeding three years.

Provided^ That this shall not be construed to extend to any
subject or citizen of a foreign prince or state, who shall transient-
ly be within the United States, and shall, on board of any vessel
of war, letter of marque, or privateer, which, at the time of its
arrival within the United States, was fitted and equipped as
such, enlist or enter himself, or hire or retain another subject or
citizen of the same foreign prince or state, who is transiently
within the United States, to enlist or enter himself to serve such
prince or state, on board such vessel of war, letter of marque, or
privateer, if the United States shall then be at peace with such
prince or state.

And 'provided further^ That if any person so enlisted shall,
within thirty days after such enlistment, voluntarily discover,
upon oath, to some justice of the peace or other civil magistrate,
the person or persons by whom he was so enlisted, so as that he
or they may be apprehended and convicted of the said oflence ;
such person so discovering the offender or offenders shall be in-
demnified from the penalty prescribed by this act.

3. That if any person shall, within any of the ports, harbors,
bays, rivers, or other waters of the United States, fit out and
arm, or attempt to fit out and arm, or procure to be fitted out
and armed, or shall, knowingly, be concerned in the furnishing,
fitting out, or arming of any ship or vessel, with intent that such
ship or vessel shall be employed in the service of any foreign
prince or state, to cruise or commit hostilities upon the subjects,
citizens, or property of another foreign prince or state with
whom the United States are at peace, or shall issue or deliver a

^T. 37.] ACT TO PUNISH CERTAIN CRIMES. 97

commission, within the territory or jurisdiction of the United
States, for any ship or vessel, to the intent that she may be em-
ployed as aforesaid ; every such person so offending shall, upon
conviction, be adjudged guilty of a high misdemeanor, and shall
be fined and imprisoned at the discretion of the court in which
the conviction shall be had, so as the fine to be imposed shall in
no case be more than five thousand dollars, and the term of im-
prisonment shall not exceed three years ; and every such ship or
vessel, with her tackle, apparel, and furniture, together with all
materials, arms, ammunition, and stores, which may have been
procured for the building and equipment thereof, shall be for-
feited one half to the use of any person who shall give informa-
tion of the offence, and the other half to the use of the United
States.

4. That if any person shall, within the territory or jurisdic-
tion of the United States, increase or augment, or procure to be-
increased or augmented, or shall be knowingly concerned in in-
creasing or augmenting the force of any ship of war, cruiser, or
other armed vessel, which, at the time of her arrival within the
United States, was a ship of war, cruiser, or armed vessel, in the
service of a foreign prince or state, or belonging to the subjects
or citizens of such prince or state, the same being at war with,
another foreign prince or state with whom the United States are
at peace, by adding to the number or size of the guns of such
vessel prepared for use, or by the addition thereto of any equip-
ment solely applicable to war ; every such person so offending
shall, upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be fined and imprisoned at the discretion of the court in
which the conviction shall be had, so as that such fine shall not
exceed one thousand dollars, nor the term of imprisonment be
more than one year.

5. That if any person shall, within the territory or jurisdic-
tion of the United States, begin or set on foot, or provide or pre-
pare the means for, any military expedition or enterprise, to be
carried on from thence against the territory or dominions of any
foreign prince or state with whom the United States are at
peace; every such person so offending shall, upon conviction,

E 7

98 HAMILTON'S WORKS, [^t. 37.

be adjudged guilty of a high misdemeanor, and shall suffer fine
and imprisonment at the discretion of the court in which the
conviction shall be had, so as that such fine shall not exceed
three thousand dollars, nor the term of imprisonment be more
than three years.

6. That the district courts shall take cognizance of com-
plaints, by whomsoever instituted, in cases of captures made
within the waters of the United States, or within a marine
league of the coasts or shores thereof

7. That in every case in which a vessel shall be fitted out and
armed, or attempted so to be fitted out or armed, or in which the
force of any vessel of war, cruiser, or other armed vessel, shall
be increased or augmented, or in which any military expedition
or enterprise shall be begun or set on foot, contrary to the pro-
hibitions and provisions of this act ; and in every case of the cap-
ture of a ship or vessel within the jurisdiction or protection of the
United States, as above defined, and in every case in which any
process issuing out of any court of the United States, shall be dis-

• obeyed or resisted by any person or persons having the custody
of any vessel of war, cruiser, or other armed vessel, of any foreign
prince or state, or of the subjects or citizens of such prince or
state, in every such case it shall be lawful for the President of
the United States, or such other person as he shall have empow-
ered for that purpose, to employ such part of the land or naval
forces of the United States, or of the militia thereof, as shall be
judged necessary for the purpose of taking possession of, and de-
taining any such ship or vessel, with her prize or prizes, if any,
in order to the execution of the prohibitions and penalties of this
. act, and to the restoring such prize or prizes, in the cases in
which the restoration shall have been adjudged, and also for the
purpose of preventing the carrying on of any such expedition or
enterprise, from the territories of the United States, against the
territories or dominions of a foreign prince or state, with whom
the United States are at peace

8. That it shall be lawful for the President of the United

, States, or such other person as he shall have empowered for that

purpose, to employ such part of the land or naval forces of the

yET.37.] CARRIAGE TAX. 99

United States, or of the militia thereof, as shall be necessary to
compel any foreign ship or vessel to depart the United States, in
all cases in which, by the laws of nations, or the treaties of the
United States, they ought not to remain within the United
States.

9. That nothing in the foregoing act shall be construed to
prevent the prosecution or punishment of treason, or any piracy,
defined by a treaty, or other law of the United States.

10. That this act shall continue and be in force, for and dur-
ing the term of two years, and from thence to the end of the
next session of Congress, and no longer.

Approved, June 5th, 1794.

CAEEIAGE TAX.

June 5, 1794.

AN ACT LAYING DUTIES UPON CARRIAGES FOR THE CONVEY-
ANCE OF PERSONS.

1. Be it enacted, &c.^ That there shall be levied, collected, and
paid, upon all carriages for the conveyance of persons which shall
be kept by, or for, any person, for his or her own use, or to be
let out to hire, or for the conveying of passengers, the several
duties and rates following, to wit : For and upon every coach,
the yearly sum of ten dollars ; for and upon every chariot, the
yearly sum of eight dollars ; for and upon every phaeton and
coachee, six dollars ; for and upon every other four-wheel, and
every two- wheel, top carriage, two dollars; and upon every
other two-wheel carriage, one dollar. Provided always^ That no-
thing herein contained shall be construed to charge with a duty,
any carriage usually and cSiefly employed in husbandry, or for
the transporting or carrying of goods, wares, merchandise, pro-
duce, or commodities.

2. That the duties aforesaid shall be levied, collected, re-

100 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

ceived, and accounted for, by and under the immediate direction*
of the supervisors and inspectors of the revenue, and other offi-
cers of inspection, subject to the superintendence, control, and
direction, of the department of the Treasury, according to the au-
thorities and duties of the respective officers thereof.

3. That every person having or keeping a carriage, or car-
riages, which, by this act, is or are made subject to the payment
of duty, shall, within the month of September, in each year,
make entry of the same, with the officer of inspection of the dis-
trict in which he or she shall reside, and pay the duty thereon :
and such entry shall be in writing, subscribed by the owner of
such carriage or carriages, and shall describe each by its proper
denomination, and number of wheels. And for the purpose of
receiving such entry and payment, it shall be the duty of the
supervisor of the district, or of some officer of inspection, to at-
tend within the month of September, in each year, at one of the
most public and convenient places in each county, within their
respective districts, and to give public notice, at least one month
previous to such day, of the time and place of such attendance.
And if any person, having or keeping a carriage or car-
riages, charged with a duty or duties by this act, shall neglect
or omit to bring, or send and deliver such list thereof, at or
within any monthly period aforesaid, in manner above mentioned,
or to pay the duty or duties thereupon payable, he or she shall,
for every such neglect or omission, forfeit and pay a sum equal
to the duty or duties payable upon the said carriage or carriages,
in addition to the said duty or duties.

4. That if any person having or keeping a carriage or car-
riages, chargeable with any duty by this act, shall prefer, to the
mode of payment hereinbefore directed, that of paying the
amount of the duties, by him or her payable, upon demand of
him or her made at his or her usual place of habitation, it shall
be at his or her option to make payment in manner last men-
tioned, upon the condition following, that is to say : that he or
she, if having or keeping a carriage or carriages, so liable to duty,
on the first day of September next, shall, within the said month
of September, or, if beginning to have or keep such carriage or

JEr. 37.]

CARRIAGE TAX. 101

carriages at any time after the said first day of September, shall
within thirty days after he or she shall so begin to have or keep
such carriage or carriages, give notice thereof, in writing at the
office of inspection nearest to his or her said place of habitation,
by transmitting a list thereof, of the like kind and description
with that directed and described in the third section of this act,
and expressing thereupon that he or she doth elect to pay the
yearly duty or duties, 'payable upon the carriage or carriages
therein mentioned, upon demand of him or her, at his or her
said place of habitation, and upon this further condition, that
he or she shall pay, upon such demand, in addition to the said
duty or duties, a commission of one per centum upon the amount
thereof^ for the benefit of the ofiicer or person by whom the said
demand shall have been made.

5. That every person who shall make such election as afore-
said, shall pay, or cause to be paid, yearly, and every year, after
the month of September, upon the calling for that purpose, at
his or her said place of habitation, of any ofiicer of inspection, or
person thereunto authorized, the amount of duty or duties by
him or her payable, upon the carriage or carriages, whereof he
or she shall have transmitted a list, as aforesaid, so long as he or
she sha,ll continue to have or keep the same, and until he or she
shall give notice in writing, at the ofiice of inspection, to which
the said list shall have been transmitted, that he or she hath sold,
or otherwise assigned, or alienated, any carriage or carriages
therein mentioned ; in default of which payment, the duty or
duties, and commission, thereupon, in respect to which any such
default shall be made, shall and may be sued for and recovered
in any court of the United States, or either of them, or shall
and may be levied, together with reasonable charges, by distress
and sale of the goods and chatties of the person making such
default.

6. That if any person, by whom such election as aforesaid
shall have been made, shall omit to notify in manner hereinbe-
fore directed, any carriage or carriages liable to duty, by this
act, which he or she shall, at any time, have or keep, he or she
shall in respect to such carriage or carriages, stand and be in the

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

same predicament as persons by whom no such election shall
have been made, and shall incur the like penalties and forfeit-
ures, as such persons are by this act made liable to, for neglect-
ing or omitting to bring, or send and deliver, true and exact lists
of the carriages by them, respectively, had or kept, and paying
the duties thereupon, in the manner herein directed.

7. That it shall be, at any time, lawful for any person who
shall have made any such election as aforesaid, by notice in writ-
ing, under his or her hand, sent to, and delivered at, the same
oflS.ce of inspection, where the notice of such election shall have
been given, to revoke the said election ; after which revocation,
he or she shall stand and be, as to all matters and things directed
and prescribed by this act, in the same situation as if no such
election had been made.

8. That the supervisors of the revenue shall have power,
from time to time, to examine, upon oath or affirmation, any
ofl&cers or persons employed under them in the collection and
receipts of the duties aforesaid.

9. That if any person shall wilfully swear or affirm falsely,
touching any matter hereinbefore required to be verified by oath
or affirmation, he or she shall suffer the pains and penalties,
which by law are prescribed for wilful and corrupt perjury ; and,
if an officer, shall forfeit his office, and be incapable of afterwards
holding any office under the United States.

10. That all fines, penalties, and forfeitures, which shall be
incurred pursuant to this act, shall be divided and distributed,
one half thereof to the use of the United States, and the other
half thereof to the use of the person, who, if an officer of in-
spection, shall first discover, if not an officer of inspection, shall
first give information of, the cause, matter, or thing, whereby
any of the said penalties or forfeitures shall have been in-
curred ; and as well the duties hereby laid, as the said fines,
penalties, and forfeitures, all or any of them, shall and may
be sued for, and recovered, in any court of the United States,
or before any magistrate, or State court, having competent
jurisdiction.

11. That this act shall continue and be in force, for and dur-

jet.zs.] act calling forth militia.
ing the term, of two years, and from thence to the end of the
next session of Congress, and no longer.

ACT AS TO CALLING FOETH MILITIA.

February 28tli, 1795.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR CALLING FORTH THE MILITIA, TO
EXECUTE THE LAWS OF THE UNION, SUPPRESS INSURREC-
TIONS, AND REPEL INVASIONS, AND TO REPEAL THE ACT NOW
IN FORCE FOR THOSE PURPOSES.

1. Beit enacied^ c&c, That whenever the United States shall
be invaded, or be in imminent danger of invasion, from any
foreign nation or Indian tribe, it shall be lawful for the President
of the United States to call forth such number of the militia of
the State or States most convenient to the place of danger or
scene of action, as he may judge necessary to repel such invasion,
and to issue his orders for that purpose to such officer or officers
of the militia as he shall think proper. And in case of an insur-
rection in any State, against the government thereof, it shall be
lawful for the President of the United States, on application of
the legislature of such State, or of the Executive (when the legis-
lature cannot be convened), to call forth such number of the
militia of any other State or States, as may be applied for, as he
may judge sufficient to suppress such insurrection.

2. That whenever the laws of the United States shall be op-
posed, or the execution thereof obstructed, in any State, by com-
binations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course
of judicial proceedings, or by the powers vested in the marshals .
by this act, it shall be lawful for the President of the United
States to call forth the militia of such State, or of any other ■
State or States, as may be necessary to suppress such combina-
tions, and to cause the laws to be duly executed ; and the use of

104 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

militia so to be called forth may be continued, if necessary, until
the expiration of thirty days after the commencement of the then
next session of Congress.

3. That whenever it may be necessary, in the judgment of
the President, to use the military force hereby directed to be
called forth, the President shall forthwith, by proclamation, com-
mand such insurgents to disperse, and retire peaceably to their
respective abode, within a limited time.

4. That the militia employed in the service of the United
States shall be subject to the same rules and articles of war as
the troops of the United States ; and that no officer, non-com-
missioned officer, or private, of the militia, shall be compelled to
serve more than three months after his arrival at the place of
rendezvous, in any one year, nor more than in due rotation with
every other able-bodied man of the same rank in the battalion to
which he belongs.

5. That every officer, non-commissioned officer, or private, of
the militia, who shall fail to obey the orders of the President of
the United States, in any of the cases before recited, shall forfeit
a sum not exceeding one year's pay, and not less than one
month's pay, to be determined and adjudged by a court martial;
and such officer shall, moreover, be liable to be cashiered by sen-
tence of a court martial, and to be incapacitated from holding a
commission in the militia, for a term not exceeding twelve
months, at the discretion of the said court ; and such non-com-
missioned officers and privates shall be liable to be imprisoned,
by a like sentence, on failure of payment of the fines adjudged
against them, for one calendar month for every five dollars of
such fine.

6. That courts martial for the trial of militia shall be com-
posed of militia officers only.

7. That all fines to be assessed as aforesaid, shall be certified
by the presiding officer of the court martial before whom the
same shall be assessed, to the marshal of the district in Avhich
the delinquent shall reside, or to one of his deputies, and also to

■the supervisor of the revenue of the same district, who shall re-
tcord the said certificate in a book to be kept for that purpose.

tEt. 38.] ACT CALLING FORTH MILITIA. 105

The said marshal, or his deputy, shall forthwith proceed to levy
the said fines, with costs, by distress and sale of the goods and
chattels of the delinquent; which costs, and the manner of pro-
ceeding with respect to the sale of the goods distrained, shall be
agreeable to the laws of the State in which the same shall be, in
other cases of distress. And where any non-commissioned officer
or private shall be adjudged to suffer imprisonment — there being
no goods or chattels to be found whereof to levy the said fines —
the marshal of the district, or his deputy, may commit such de-
linquent to gaol, during the term for which he shall be so ad-
judged to imprisonment, or until the fine shall be paid, in the
same manner as other persons condemned to fine and imprison-
ment at the suit of the United States may be committed.

8. That the marshals and their deputies shall pay all such
fines by them levied, to the supervisor of the revenue in the dis-
trict in which they are collected, within two months after they
shall have received the same, deducting therefrom five per
centum as a compensation for their trouble ; and in case of fail-
ure, the same shall be recoverable by action of debt or informa-
tion, in any court of the United States, of the district in which
such fines shall be levied, having cognizance thereof, to be sued
for, prosecuted, and recovered, in the name of the supervisor of
the district, with interest and costs.

9. That the marshals of the several districts, and their depu-
ties, shall have the same powers, in executing the laws of the
United States, as sheriifs and their deputies, in the several
States, have by law in executing the laws of the respective
States.

10. That the act entitled, " An act to provide for calling
forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, suppress in-
surrections, and repel invasions," passed the second day of May,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, shall be, and the
same is, hereby repealed.

106 HAMITLON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN.

REMARKS ON THE TREATY OF AMITY, COMMERCE AND NAVI-
GATION, MADE BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND GREAT
BRITAIN-

Hamilton to Washington.

July 9, 1795.

Article I. This being simply a declaration of peace and friend-
ship, is liable to no observation.

Article II. This article, by fixing a precise period for the eva-
cuation of the posts, namely, the first of June 1796, secures that
important event as far as a stipulation can do it.

It is objected that the period is too remote, and that reason-
ing from the past there can be no reliance upon a fulfilment at
the time.

It were desirable that a shorter period could have been lim-
ited, not only because it is interesting to repossess the posts as
early as possible, but because the chances of interfering events
which may create impediments are multiplied in proportion to
the delay.

But the reasons assigned for it as contained in one of Mr.
Jay's letters, though not satisfactory with regard to us, are not
without force with regard to the other party, and it may be
added to them, that the British would naturally wish time to
establish counter posts within their territories, and that some
time would really be requisite to prepare, without prejudice to
their traders, for the future course of their business.

Yet whatever may be the degree of force which may be con-
ceded to the reasons assigned for the delay, this circumstance
does not appear to me a good ground of suspicion, that the post-
ponement is with a secret intent to evade the surrender. I
rather resolve its principal motive into the desire of preserving
the friendship and confidence of the Indians within our territory

vEt. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 107

by the gradual preparation of their minds for the event, and also
by giving them sufficient time to close their quarrel with us,
leaving things on a footing which it was imagined would incline
us to better terms of peace than if we were previously in actual
possession of the posts.

The extreme profligacy and contempt of appearances — which
are implied in the supposition of an intention to evade the sur-
render of the posts, after a second and precise stipulation, in a
treaty which adjusts all the points of difference in a former treaty
are so palpable, that the supposition cannot be indulged without
such a distrust of the faith of the party as would forbid an at-
tempt to treat with him. For after all, some future period must
have been fixed — and that as well as a more remote one might
have been evaded.

Besides, that it appears to be extremely probable that the
course of events will fortify the disposition to observe good faith
in this particular,

I therefore venture to count with confidence on the surrender
of the posts, according to the stipulation, if the treaty is mutu-
ally ratified. And this is in my view a matter of signal import-
ance. Besides opening to us the Indian trade which is of some
value, relieving us effectually from the expenses and mischiefs
of Indian wars in that quarter, and giving a secure course to our
western settlements, it breaks up the great and dangerous project
of Great Britain to confine us to the Ohio and to possess the in-
termediate country, and it tends most powerfully to establish the
influence and authority of the general government over the
western country. The different ways in which it will have this
effect will readily occur. The firm possession by the general
government of the western posts, may be considered as a very
strong link of connection between the Atlantic and western coun-
try, to maintain which, with the necessary controls, is the knotty
point of our affairs as well as a primary object of our policy.

Moreover, it is to be remarked that the conditional ratifica-
tion of the treaty as advised by the Senate, will occasion delays
which would render it scarcely jDOssible to effect the surrender
sooner than is stipulated, in consequence of the treaty ; and at

108 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

any rate the event could only be retarded, not accelerated, by
not closing with the treaty as it stands.

The reservations of this article, with respect to the ^'■precincts
and jurmliction'''' of the posts, are criticised on account of the
vagueness of the terms. But this criticism does not appear very
well founded. It would have been difficult to have hit upon a
definition whicli would have suited all the circumstances of the
present occupation ; and as any construction which is not entirely
absurd, will leave full latitude for the progress of settlement dur-
ing the short period of the further detention of the posts, a defini-
tion was not a matter of moment. In my opinion the true con-
struction will be, that those places where there are settlements
and establishments in the vicinity of the posts over which a
jurisdiction in fact has been exercised since the peace, are to be
understood to be comprehended within the terras " precincts and
jurisdictions of the posts," and that where there have been no
settlements, gun shot must be the rule.

Article III. This article appears on the whole to be advanta-
geous to the United States. Our Indian trade, to which it gives
the British access, is unimportant. Theirs, to which wc acquire
access, is important, and it is believed by persons conversant in
the business, that our local situation will enable us to maintain
the competition within the British territories on favorable terms.
As to other trade, the advantage will be still more clearly with
us. The superior facilities of transportation on our side, will
enable us to supply their possessions with European and East
India goods, as well as domestic articles, far more extensively
than they can us.

It is objected to this article that the clauses which regard
"the admission of British vessels from the sea into the rivers of
the United States," &c., and the mutual navigation of the Mis-
sissippi, will interfere with the regulations which the United
States may hereafter think fit to establish, in order to bring
Great Britain to better terms of commerce, &c.

But the ground of this objection appears to be erroneous.
The main and affirmative object of the first clause of the article
is to secure an intercourse between the territories situated on each

.Et. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 109

side of the boundary line, by land passage and inland naviga-
tion, with a right to each for the purpose of this inland naviga-
tion " to navigate all the lakes, rivers, and waters thereof," But
lest on the one hand this should be construed to admit by impli-
cation a communication from the sea with Canada or Nova Sco-
tia, or through those countries with the sea, (a thing not now
permitted,) it is declared negatively that this shall not be under-
stood to be implied ; and lest on the other hand the same provi-
sion should be construed to admit by implication that British
vessels coming from the sea might go beyond the highest ports
of entry, to tvhidi our laivs now subject foreign vessels^ it is in like
manner declared negatively^ that this shall not be understood to
be implied. But this negative of an implication which might
have arisen from the principal provision, can by no just rules of
reasoning or construction be turned into a grant of a positive
privilege ; especially being foreign to the object of that princi-
pal provision — that is to say, to the grant of a right to navi-
gate by sea to and from our seaports; the subject of the main
provision being land passage and inland navigation.'^'

The absurdity of such a provision becomes the more mani-
fest by considering that the trade to be regulated by the main
provision concerns only that portion of the British territories
which is on the continent of America ; while the right pretended
to be grafted upon it would extend to all the other British terri-
tories, in whatever part of the world. With as much reason,
and on the same principle, might we contend under the article
for an access hy sea to any possessions which Great Britain might
have or acquire on the opposite coast of our continent.

The clause with regard to the Mississippi merely admits, as
far as depends upon us, a positive right to navigate that river to
any port or place which the British may have bordering upon

* Those terms have no precise legal sense ; but they are always used as eontra-
distinguished from sea-navigation, or navigation to and from the sea. I should
say, then, that inland navigation begins where navigation from the sea ends ;—
that navigation from the sea ends at our ports of entry from the sea, where inland
navigation begins. This construction is strengthened by the reflection, that, ac-
cording to the laws of Great Britain and the United States, rivers, as far as the
tide flows, are arms of the sea.

110 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38

it, and a revocable right to navigate it to any port or place which.
we may have bordering upon it. They may use it to come to
any such port or place, in as ample a manner as they may go to
an Atlantic port ; but not in a more ample manner ; consequently,
a prohibition to come to an Atlantic port, will annihilate the
conditional permission to go to a port on the Mississippi.

We may, therefore, freely, as to any thing in this article, pro-
hibit British vessels from coming by sea from any part of the
world to the United States.

The latter part of the clause gives permission to bring and
carry into the respective territories mentioned in the article in
manner aforesaid^ that is to say, by land passage and inland navi-
gation, all such goods and merchandise whose importation shall not
be entirely prohibited, paying such duties only as the respective
subjects and citizens are liable to pay. But we may entirely
prohibit any articles we please of the produce or manufacture of
Great Britain. And we may prohibit the exportation to Great
Britain of any articles whatsoever. Thus will there be ample
room to make regulations of the kind alluded to, notwithstand-
ing any thing in this article.

Article IV. This article, as far as it is operative, is right.
A survey is a necessary previous step to determine whether the
former treaty can be literally executed ; and if not, the adjust-
ment of the matter is referred to future negotiation, which leaves
it in the power of both parties to come to such an agreement as
they deem reasonable and conformable to the true intent of the
former treaty.

Article V. This article also provides a good mode of set-
tling the controverted point.

Article VI. It was ever my opinion that no adjustment of
the controversy on the inexecution of the former treaty was
ever likely to be made, which would not embrace an indemnifi-
cation for losses sustained, in consequence of legal impediments
to the recovery of debts : and indeed it always appeared to me
just that an indemnification should be embraced.

The article of the former treaty on this head was, as I con-
ceive, nothing more than the formal sanction of a doctrine which

iET. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. Ill

makes part of tlie modern law or usage of nations. The confis-
cation of private debts in time of war is reprobated by the most
approved writers on the laws of nations, and by the negative
practice of civilized nations, during the present century. The
free recovery of them, therefore, on the return of peace, was a
matter of course, and ought not to have been impeded, had there
been no article.

Admitting that the first breaches of the treaty were commit-
ted, as we alleged, by Great Britain, still it would not follow
that the impediments which the laAvs of certain States opposed to
the recovery of debts were justifiable.

First^ Because it manifestly lay with the general government,
to which belonged the powers of treaty, war and peace, to decide
whether, in consequence of the breaches of treaty on the other
part, it would elect to consider as void the whole, or any article
of the treaty. The general government never did so decide, but
on the contrary, repeatedly and wisely manifested a different
disposition ; wisely, because it was inexpedient to set afloat so
important a treaty, which terminated the question of the revo-
lution with the government with which we had contended, and
to widen a breach which might at an early stage involve us anew
in war. Consequently, the only competent authority having de-
clined to pronounce, it was a usurpation in any State to take
upon itself the business of retaliation.

Secondly^ Because the interruption of the recovery of debts
is contrary (as before observed) to the modern usage of nations,
immoral in itself, against the opinions of the generality of en-
lightened men, and disreputable to the nation which has recourse
to it. The practice of most of the States is in conformity with,
and a comment upon this doctrine.

But the question. Who committed the first breach of the
treaty ? if candidly examined, does not admit of as clear a solu-
tion in our favor as many imagine or assert.

Two breaches of treaty are imputed to Great Britain ; one
respecting the carrying away of the negroes, and the other re-
specting the retention of the posts.

As to the first, Great Britain has much to say with truth and
justice.

112 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

Her proceedings in seducing away our negroes during tlie
war were to the last degree infamous, and form an indelible stain
on her annals.

But having done it, it would have been still more infamous
to have surrendered them to their masters.

The reply to this may be, that they ought not then to have
stipulated it. This is just ; but still the inquiry is, whether they
have stipulated it, and the odiousness of the thing, as applied to
them, is an argument of weight against such a construction of
general expressions in the treaty as would imply the obligation
to restitution. Odious things are not favored in the interpreta-
tion of treaties ; and though the restoration of iwo;perty is a favor-
ed thing, yet the surrender of persons to slavery is an odious
thing, speaking in the language of the laws of nations.

The words of the article are, that his Britannic Majesty shall,
with all convenient speed, and without causing any destruction or
carrying away any negroes or other property of the American in-
habitants, withdraw all his armies, &c.

There are two constructions of this article ; one that the
evacuation should he made without depredation^ that is, without
causing any destruction or carrying away any property^ which
continued to be such {having undergone no change hy the laws of
war) at the time of the evacuation ; the other, that there was to
be, besides a forbearance to destroy or carry away, a positive
restitution of all property tahen in the war, and at the time of the
evacuation which then existed in kind.

In favor of the last construction is the most obvious sense of
the words ; and as it applies to the negroes merely as an article
of property, the justice of restoring what had been taken away
in many instances by unwarrantable means.

Against it, and in favor of the first construction, are these
considerations.

1. That the expressions are, negroes and other property ; which
puts negroes, cows, horses, and all other articles of property, on
the same footing, and considers them, if at all liable, equally
liable to restitidion, and all as having equally the common quality
oil^roperty of the American inhabitants.

iET. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 113

Could any thing be considered as property of the American
inhabitants, at the time of the treaty, and in contemplation of the
treaty, which, by the ordinary rules of the laws of war, had pre-
viously become the absolute property of the captors ? Is there
any thing which exempts negroes more than other articles of
personal property, from capture and confiscation as booty? If
there is not, why should negroes have been claimed under this
article, more than the vessels which had been captured and con-
demned? Is that a probable sense of the treaty which would
require such a restitution ?

2. If negroes were objects of capture in war, the captor
might proclaim their liberty when in his possession. If once de-
clared free, could the grant be recalled ? Could the British gov-
ernment stipulate the surrender of men made free to slavery ?
Is it natural to put such a construction upon general words, if
they will bear another ? Is not this, as it regards the rights of
humanity, an odious sense ?

3. The treaty will bear another construction — that which is
put upon it by the British — a provision ybr greater caution against
depredation or the carrying away of property not changed by
the laws of war. It is observable, in confirmation of this, that
there is no stipulation to restore^ but negatively not to carry away /
whereas, immediately after, in the same article, there follows a
clause which stipulates that "archives, records, &c.," shall be
restored and delivered up. This different mode of expression seems
to denote a different sense in the two cases.

Let it be observed that I do not mean to advocate this sense
in preference to the other. I have at different times viewed the
matter in different lights, and our ablest lawyers differ concern-
ing it. I even entertain a clear opinion that the article was in-
tended to operate in our sense of it. But, still, this does not
obviate the doubt as to its true legal signification.

All I mean to say is, that there is really a well-founded
doubt as to the true legal construction ; and, in such case, the
acting of the other party, on a construction different from ours,
could not be deemed such a clear manifest breach of treaty as to

114 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

justify retaliation. Tne point was merely a matter of amicable
discussion and negotiation.

If this was a breacli of tlie treaty, it is necessary to note tliat
it was committed in 1783.

The affair of the posts is more embarrassing.

It is necessary, in the first place, to settle when it became the
duty of the British to surrender them. The stipulation is, that
it shall be done "with all convenient speed." But from which
of the treaties are we to date, the provisional or the definitive ?
The principle of this question is a point of great difficulty not
settled either by the opinions of writers, or by the practice of
nations.

I remember that I contended in Congress, shortly after the
arrival of the provisional treaty, and when it was known that
preliminaries had been signed between France and England,
that the execution of the treaty was to date from this epoch, and
on this position I grounded a motion to recommend to the States
a compliance with the article.

But on the vote upon this motion, I was left alone, and Con-
gress did not act upon the subject till after the arrival of the de-
finitive treaty — that is, 1784,

This amounts to a construction by our government, that the
execution was to date from the definitive treaty.

Lord Grenville contends with Mr. Jay for the same position,
and urges, consequently, that it was not till after the notice of
the ratification by us in England, or, in other words, the ex-
change of ratifications there, that it could be deemed incumbent
upon them to give orders for the evacuation of the posts ; which
orders could not well have been given before May, nor have
arrived in Canada till July.

After the course pursued by us, as already stated, it is difiicult
to see what can be objected to this construction. It is true the
Atlantic posts were evacuated shortly after the provisional
treaty ; but it may be justly observed, upon this, that it was
done for mutual convenience, and in the spirit of conciliation —
not on the score of strict obligation ; that, however inconsistent
with the spirit of an act for restoring peace, it might have bees

^T. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 115

to have detained places in the heart of our settled country ; be-
ing, besides, the capitals of the States in which they were, there
was entire liberty to pursue a stricter rule as to the Western posts,
some delay concerning which could not have been of material
inconvenience to us ; and that it was reasonable to pursue the
strict rule here, to see what course the execution of the treaty
was likely to take on our part.

But our dilemma is this: that if the delay of orders for
evacuating the posts till after the exchange of ratifications of the
definitive treaty, was a breach of the treaty, as contended for hy
Mr. Jefferson, the delay of acting upon the fifth article till after
the ratification of the definitive treaty in this country, was
equally a breach of the treaty on our part, and a prior, at least, a
cotemporary breach.

Let us now see how, in point of time, the breaches will
stand on our part. In this I shall not aim at an accurate enu-
meration, but shall select particular instances.

1. An act of New- York for granting a more effectual re-
lief in cases of certain trespasses, passed the 17th of March,
1783.

This act takes away from any person within the British
lines who had occupied, injured, or destroyed the property,
real or personal, of an inhabitant without the lines, the plea
of a military order for so doing; consequently, the justification
which he might derive from the laws and usages of war, in con-
travention of the treaty of peace.

It is true, it preceded for a short time the arrival of the pro-
visional treaty in this country ; but it is notorious that it was in
expectation'and contemplation of the event.

This circumstance of priority of time, leads Mr. Jefferson to
put this act out of the question ; but in fair reasoning this is
hardly admissible.

It continued to have, in fact^ an extensive operation^ from the
time of the evacuation of the city of New-York till the repeal
of the exceptionable clause, by an act of the 4th of April,
1787.

It hardly appears a satisfactory answer to this, to say, as Mr.

116 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

Jefferson has done, tliat the courts did not sanction the principle
of the act ; that in one instance, the case of Eutgers and Wad-
dington, the mayor's court overruled it.

The fact is, that from the very express terms of the act, a
general opinion was entertained, embracing almost our whole
bar, as well as the public, that it was useless to attempt a de-
fence; and, accordingly, many suits were brought, and many
judgments given, without the point being regularly raised, and
many compromises were made, and large sums paid, under the
despair of a successful defence. I was for a long time the only
practicer who pursued a different course, and opposed the treaty
to the act ; and though I was never overruled in the Supreme
Court, I never got my point established there. I effected many
easy compromises to my clients, afraid myself of the event in
the Supreme Court, and produced delays till the exceptionable
part of the act was repealed. The Supreme Court frequently, in
a studied manner, evaded the main question, and turned their
decision upon the forms of pleading.

'Tis perhaps enough for the other party to say that here was
a positive law of a state, unrepealed, and acted upon so as in fact
to defeat, in a material degree, the operation of the treaty. The
injury was suffered, and there ought never to have existed so
critical a conflict between the treaty and the statute law of a
state.

If the operation of this law was a breach of the treaty, it was
a breach from the first moment of the ratification of the provi-
sional articles till the 4:th of April, 1787. Nothing could be
anterior to it.

Another act of the 4th of May, 1784, provided, a mode by
which the foregoing act should have effect upon the estates of
absentees, which in several instances produced judgments with-
out opportunity of defence. It is to be observed that the
British commander-in-chief early remonstrated against this act
as inconsistent with the treaty, and yet it continued unre-
pealed.

Another act of New- York, of the 12th of May, 1784, in the
.strongest and most express terms, confirms all confiscations before

.Et.38.] treaty with GREAT BRITAIN. 117

made, notwithstanding any errors in the proceedings, and takes
away the writ of error upon any judgment before rendered.

This is substantially a new confiscation. If the judgments
before rendered were from error invalid, the confiscations were
nullities — to take away the writ of error which was the mode of
annulling them, was equivalent to making new confiscations.
This act was an undoubted breach of the treaty, and is prior to
the time when the breach by the non-surrender of the posts can
be dated.

An act of South Carolina, March 26, 1784, suspends the
recovery of British debts for nine months, and then allows them
to be recovered in four yearly instalments.

This also was a plain contravention of the treaty, and dates
before the breach by non-surrender of the posts.

Virginia, in June, 1784:, resolved that her courts should be
opened to British suits as soon as reparation should be made with
regard to the negroes and posts, or otherwise as Congress should
judge it indispensably necessary.

If her courts were before closed, which this resolution admits,
it was in consequence of acts passed prior to the treaty, which
her courts had deemed obligatory upon them after the treaty —
and it folloAvs that there was a continual violation of the treaty
from its ratification till 1787, when Virginia repealed all acts
repugnant to the treaty.

Taking, therefore, the carrying away of the negroes to be a
breach of treaty, 'tis a very moot point whether some of the laws
of the States did not produce antecedent breaches.

Putting that out of the question and taking the definitive
treaty, according to the construction just put upon it by our own
conduct, as the act from which the execution was to date, and
allowing reasonable time for the ratification to be notified and
exchanged — it is certain that the first breaches were committed
by us.

The use of these remarks is to show, that a candid and un-
prejudiced view of the subject tends to moderate the sanguine
pretensions which have been built on the suggestion of the first
breach having been committed by Great Britain, and to manifest

118 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

tlie reasonableness of having stipulated compensation in the
cases of the breaches made by us.

Indeed, admitting the first breaches by Great Britain, I do
not see that it would affect the conclusion that compensation was
to be made.

The following seems to be the fair view of the subject.

Mutual infractions of the treaty had taken place. Either our
infractions were to be considered as the equivalents for those of
Great Britain, and then having enjoyed the equivalents we had
no right to ask reparation in addition — or, if we preferred repa-
ration for the infractions by Great Britain, we were to renounce
the equivalents for them.

Then it will follow, that the surrender of the posts on their
side would draw with it a right of compensation for the losses
suffered by impediments to the recovery of the debts on our
side.

In other words, the treaty was to remain mutually broken and
unexecuted in certain points, or it was to be reinstated by mutual
performance. Performance as to the article of the debts is com-
pensation for the losses sustained by impediments to the recovery,
and the removal of those impediments.

In fine, it would, in my judgment, independent of the treaty,
have been dishonorable and unjust in us to have interfered with
the recovery of private debts — it was dishonorable and unjust to
have interfered with them on the grounds which were the pre-
texts, and it is honorable and just to make compensation. The
reputation of the country as well as its peace required the stipu-
lation.

It is not perceived that there is any thing exceptionable in
the mode of determining and adjusting the compensations to be
made in the cases in which this may be deemed proper — or that
any better mode could be substituted. The article appears in
general sufficiently well guarded.

Article VII. This article appears to me as well arranged as
could have been expected.

It is objected to as too dilatory, but no reasonable substitute
bas occurred.

^T.38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 119

The United States could not have demanded a gross sum,
because they had no adequate standard by which to ascertain
what was proper. They might have asked too much or too
little.

G-reat Britain, for the same reasons, could not have been
expected to agree to the demand of a gross sum. This is not the
way that nations deal with each other, unless where one is in
a situation to dictate to the other. This was not our situation.

Indemnification on equitable principles was all that could be
expected. This necessarily supposes a mode of ascertaining loitli
due investigation the real losses.

But one of three modes can well be thought of ; to refer the
adjustment to the tribunals of the United States — to refer it to
the tribunals of Great Britain, or to submit it to referees mutu-
ally appointed.

Either of the first two modes was inadmissible, because lia-
ble to partiality. The tribunals of the United States could never
get hold of these cases without inverting entirely the course of
similar transactions. Those of Great Britain will now in many
cases decide in the first instance, but no American would choose
to leave the ultimate decision there. Referees have therefore a
comprehensive power to do justice in all cases in which it could
not be obtained in the ordinary course.

But, it is said, 'twere better commissioners should have de-
cided in the first instance without reference to the courts for the
greater despatch.

This might have had a contrary tendency to that of promot-
ing dispatch. Appeals, in a great number of cases, will have
gone forward ; and it was better they should have had their course
than to be arrested to be turned over to the referees. 'Tis pro-
bable, from the expedition of admiralty proceedings, that the
courts will have done their part by the time the referees are
ready to begin.

It is to be observed too, that this article follows closely the
provision with regard to the debts; and it was material this
should be the case.

"We certainly must prefer that our courts of justice should

120 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

have a free course in tlie affair of the debts, in all the cases in
whch it is now practicable.

The latter clause of this article respects the prizes made
within our territorial j arisdiction, or bj privateers originally
fitted out in our ports, is confined to the cases in which the prizes
having been brought within our ports, we forbore to make resti-
tution, and is purely in execution of the opinion of the Presi-
dent conveyed in the letter from Mr. Jefferson, which is annexed
to the treaty, and which, by being annexed and referred to, be-
comes a part of this article.

Agreeing, then, with the laws of nations, with the obliga-
tions which our treaties with other nations impose upon us in
respect to them, and carrying into effect the expectation previ-
ously given by the President, it is liable to no just objection.

Article VIII. This article seems in all respects unexception-
able.

Article IX. This article, from having been misunderstood,
caused at first much uneasiness. It was considered as giving a
permanent reciprocal right to the citizens of the two countries
indefinitely to acquire and hold lands in either. But this is mani-
festly an error, which haviog been pointed out, the uneasiness
has subsided.

It is expressly confined to those holding lands prior to the
treaty, (the words are those* "who noio hold lands,") and makes
no alteration in the antecedent state of things which can be at
all material in a national light.

It is not certain that it makes any other alteration than
that those who now laiofully hold lands may convey tliose lands to
aliens.

It may, however, give rise to this question, whether aliens
who noiu hold lands by a defeasible title acquired since the
treaty of peace, in States whose laws do not authorize it, are
not protected in their acquisitions ? But however this question
may be decided, it is of little importance ; for in fact the alien
laws are never enforced, nor likely to be so ; and the quantity

* Mr. King, who has critically examined these points, is of opinion that it does
not apply to such cases.

^T. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 121

of lands so holden, whicli are daily changing owners, is not con-
sidered enough to have any consequence in a national scale.

An objection seems to have been raised in the Senate against
the constitutionality of this article, as though it entrenched upon
the authorities of the States.

But this objection is inadmissible. It would totally subvert
the power of making treaties. There can hardly be made a treaty ■
which does not make some alteration in the existing laws, which
does not, as its objects, control the legislative authority ; and
from the nature of our Constitution, this must apply to the State
laws and legislatures as well as to those of the Union.

A treaty cannot be made which alters the constitutions of the
country, or which infringes any express exceptions to the power
in the 'Constitution of the United States. But it is difficult to
assign any other bounds to the power. It may certainly alter
the provisions of the statute and municipal laws, and modify the
rules of property.

There are stipulations in our treaty of peace with Great Bri-
tain, analogous to the one under consideration ; the validity of
which has never been disputed.

Of this kind is that which stipulates that all persons who have
any interest in confiscated lands either by debts, marriage settle-
ments or otherwise, shall meet with no lawful impediment in the
prosecution of their just rights; and that which stipulates that
there shall he no future confiscations.

But a much stronger case is found in the 11th article of our
treaty of amity and commerce with France, which is generally
understood and practised upon, as removing in toto, the disa-
bility of alienism from all Frenchmen, so far as respects acquir-
ing and holding lands; and certainly gives them important
rights with regard to lands which they would not have but for
this treaty on account of their alienism.

Indeed, the protection of aliens in the enjoyment of the
landed property they hold, is a familiar article in treaties of
peace ; so also stipulations as to rights in lands more or less qua-
lified are common in treaties of commerce. And the power of
making treaties is plenary under our present Constitution ; more

122 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

SO than it was under the confederation, where it has been deemed
adequate to do much more in this respect than has been done by
the treaty in question.

In fine, the objection to the constitutionality of this article,
is manifestly futile.

Article X, In my opinion this article is nothing more than
an affirmance of the modern law and usage of civilized nations,
and is valuable as a check upon a measure which, if it could
ever take place, would disgrace the goveriiment of the country,
and injure its true interests.

The general proposition of writers on the laws of nations is,
that all enemy's property, wherever found, is liable to seizure
and confiscation ; but reason pronounces that this is with the
exception of all such property as exists in the faith of the laws of
your own country ; such are the several kinds of property which
are protected by this article.

And though in remote periods the exception may not have
been duly observed, yet the spirit of commerce, diffusing more
just ideas, has been giving strength to it for a century past, and
a negative usage among nations, according with the opinions of
modern writers, authorizes the considering the exception as
established.

If there have been deviations from that usage in the actual
war of Europe, they form no just objection to this reasoning:
for this war has violated, in different instances, most of the most
sacred laws of nations.

It is said that the power which is given up by this article,
was the only effective check upon Great Britain. I answer,
1st. That there existed before no rightful or moral power ; and,
notwithstanding the treaty, there will still exist a power without
right or morality. The treaty only adds the sanction of an ex-
press, to what was before an implied pledge of the public faith.
The one may be still violated as well as the other ; and the only
use of the article will be, to give prudent and good men an ardi-
tional argument against an act of national iniquity.

2d. That the fear of the exercise of this power has not hitherto
appeared to be a check upon Great Britain ; and the menace of

Mt. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN.
its exercise can never take place witliout doing ourselves more
harni than good, by tarnishing our honor and shaking our
credit.

3d. That war itself acts as a virtual sequestration of pro-
perty, by interrupting the course of remittances ; and the gov-
ernment by interfering does little more than render itself liable
for the dilapidations of vicious individuals who take advantage
of the circumstance; since treaties of peace, unless one party is
totally prostrate, will never fail to reinstate private debts.

What benefit did those States derive which had recourse to
the expedient of sequestrations in our war? How much wiser
and less embarrassing to themselves was the policy of those
States who refrained from it. And why did they refrain from
it, but because they thought it unwarrantable and impolitic ?

I have not the State laws by me, and cannot speak with cer-
tainty from memory; but as far as I recollect, a majority of the
States, including the most commercial, abstained from the se-
questration or confiscation of private debts, except in the case of
convicted or attainted criminals, which may be regarded as an
indication of the general opinion. For if ever a war warranted
such a measure, it was our Revolution war.

I conclude from the whole, that no honest or truly politic
objection lies against this article ; and that a willingness to enter
into the stipulation is reputable to the country, while an unwil-
lingness would be disreputable to it.

These ten are all the permanent articles. They close the
various matters of controversy with Great Britain, and, upon the
whole, they close them reasonably. Compensation for the ne-
groes, if not a point of doubtful right, is certainly a point of no
great moment. It involves no principle of future operation. It
terminates in itself; and the actual pecuniary value of the ob-
ject is in a national sense inconsiderable and insignificant.

The remaining articles are temporary. I proceed to review
them in their order.

Article XI. This article is a mere introduction to the suc-
ceeding articles.

Article XII. This article is in my judgment an exception-

124 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

able one. The principle of a restriction upon any thing which
is not the produce of the treaty itself, is unprecedented and
wrong. Had it been confined to articles from the British islands,
it would have been justified ; but extending to articles from
other countries, and, according to the letter, to one which is the
growth of our own country, it appeared to me from the begin-
ning inadmissible. It might also have proved a source of dissat-
isfaction to France, by interrupting in the midst of the war a
regular and just source of supply through us. And though I
would not omit any measure which I thought for the national
interest, because any foreign power might capriciously dislike it,
yet I would do no act giving a reasonable cause of dissatisfac-
tion. And for these reasons I am glad, though at the risk of the
treaty, that the Senate has accepted it.

I do justice to Mr. Jay's reasoning on this subject. He
thought rightly that the re-exportation of the articles in ordinary
times was a matter of little consequence to this country, and that
it was of importance by a formal treaty to establish the precedent
of a breach in the navigation system of Great Britian, which
might be successively widened. These reasons were not light
ones, but they are in my judgment outweighed by the other con-
siderations.

Article XIII. This article is a valuable one. In considering
it, it is necessary to reflect that the privileges we now enjoy in
the British East Indies are by the mere sufferance of the local gov-
ernment, and revocable at pleasure. This article converts into a
right hy stipulation^ not all that we before enjoyed by sufferance,
but the most essential and extensive part of it — the direct trade
between India and the United States. Heretofore by sufferance
we have been occasionally let into the coasting trade, and have
been permitted to go from India to other countries than the
United States. The treaty, though it permits a circuitous trade
to India, permits only a direct trade from India to the United
States ; but when the articles arrive within the United States, we
may re-export them, or do whatever else we please.

But though the treaty does not secure to us an indirect trade
from India, nor the coasting trade there, I do not see but that

Mt. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN,
these matters will be left just where they were before ; that is,
depending on the sufferance or free permission of the British
government in India. "When two parties agree that a certain
thing shall not be done, it is always with this tacit exception,
unless the party for ivhose benefit the restriction is imposed shall con-
sent io waive it. If the British government finds it expedient to
continue to us the advantages not granted by treaty, its permis-
sion ad hoc will release the restriction in the treaty and confer the
right. 'Tis by the same permission we have hitherto enjoyed it,
and by its continuance we may enjoy it still.

The interest of the other party was the only ground upon
which we heretofore enjoyed any privilege in the British East
Indies. That interest without the treaty would continue the
privilege so long, and so long only, as the interest continued. It
will still do the same as to what is not included in the treaty, and
the result of the whole is this — that the treaty converts into matter
of right the most extensive and most valuable part of a trade, which
before was wholly matter of sufferance, leaving the residue noiv as
it was before^ matter of sufferance, to be continued or discontinued
according to the interest of the party.

Some alarm has been attempted to be excited as if under this
article, the British merchants could enter into competition with
us in the India trade, and by the superiority of their capitals,
supplant us. But there is not a syllable in this article which
renders this at all more possible now than it was before.

There is a clause which says negatively that our vessels shall
pay in India no other or higher duties than are payable on British
vessels in the ports of the United States. But as it is at the
option of the other party under this article, not to make us pay
as much tonnage in India as British vessels pay in the United
States, so before the treaty it was in their power to make us pay
not only as much but more ; now by the treaty they are restrained
from making us pay more, so that something is gained, nothing
lost. There is a clause which immediately follows, very impor-
tant in a contrary sense to the object. This clause secures us
from paying higher duties in India on articles imported and ex-
ported in our vessels than are paid on the same articles in British

126 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

vessels; whereas before tliey miglit have imposed at pleasure,
higher duties on our cargoes, and very reasonably could have
gone so far as to countervail the higher duties which we lay on
foreign vessels bringing goods from India.

In fine this article is all on one side, and favorable to us.

Article XIV. This article is a general formula without any
special or remarkable feature.

Article XY. This article, with more precision than is usual,
only establishes reciprocally the rule of the most favored nation.
It stipulates that as to the points enumerated. Great Britain shall
be on no worse footing than other nations, but it gives her no
preferences. It was impossible to expect that a treaty could be
formed of which this was not the basis.

The last clause but one assures to Great Britain the right of
imposing on American vessels entering into her j^orts in Europe^ and
their cargoes^ duties which shall countervail the differences made
in our ports between British and American vessels and their
cargoes. This right Great Britain enjoyed before the treaty, and
it depended then upon her option as it does still to exercise or
not to exercise it. And it is now in our option to defeat the
reservation if we choose it by equalizing the duties.

The last clause stipulates on our side a continuance of the
status quo as to the tonnage duty on British vessels, and as to the
proportional difference of duties on articles imported in British,
and American vessels. This status quo is such as we have no
interest to vary, unless on the plan of coercive regulations^ an idea
which is certainly incompatible with the being of the treaty
while it continues in force.

Article XVI. This article merely relates to consuls, and is
on the common and a harmless footing.

Article XYII. This article, recognizing the right of a bellige-
rent nation to take its enemy's goods out of a neutral vessel,
establishes the usual grounds against abuse.

It is impossible to deny that the principle recognized is con-
formable with the laws of nations. It is the uniform doctrine of
writers, and was the uniform and universally allowed practice of
nations before the armed neutrality brought it into controversy.

.Et. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN
A combination like this, formed in the midst of a war of tempo-
rary duration, and on special motives of policy, not acceded to
by all the powers of Europe — not having acquired the sanction
of time — is clearly not sufficient to alter a rule in the law of na-
tions. This might be done by common consent, or by long
and general usage. Neither is the case here. On the contrary,
some of the powers which combined to introduce the innovation,
now support in arms a contrary principle ; and all the neutral
powers— the United States included— have expressly or virtually
relinquished the ground in the whole course of the present war.
None, that I know of, has seriously contended for it, even in
argument.

Our government, at an early day, on full and mature exami-
nation and reflection, by an unanimous opinion of those con-
sulted, gave up the ground as untenable. The President's files
of Mr. Jefferson's letters are evidence of this. Indeed it is not
very probable that the new principle will ever become an es-
tablished one of the laws of nations. It is too contrary to the
spirit of war.

Where, therefore, the rule exists, it must depend on treaty,
and apply only to the powers who are parties to it.

This article, therefore, does no more ihan was done before,
and rightly and wisely done.

For besides that one or a few nations cannot justly make and
attempt to enforce a new principle, it is folly in a young and
weak country like ours to take a ground which cannot clearly
be maintained on precedent and principle.

The dilemma was to renounce the pretension, or to insist
upon and maintain it. To have attempted the last would have
been madness.

It were to have been wished that this article had stipulated,
with regard to contraband goods, what has been stipulated with
reo-ard to enemy's goods, to wit, that the contraband only should
be detained— the rest of the cargo liberated; since it is con-
tended, in certain cases, that the contraband articles will infect
the ship and the residue of the cargo. But though such a stipu-
lation would have been a point gained, the want of it relinquishes

128 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

nothing. The point is left where it was before — to the decision
of the laws of nations.

Article XVIII. The first clause of this article specifies the
articles to be deemed generally contraband. This specification
agrees with the laws of nations, as laid down by writers, and
sanctioned by long practice, in all cases in which there are not
limitations or exceptions in particular treaties.

The enumeration, however, comprises articles as contraband
which are excepted in our other treaties, and is so far less well
than might be Avished, though probably as well as circumstances
would permit to be done at the present juncture.

In embracing, generally, articles for ship-building, it affects
some of the staples of some of the States ; but it is to be ob-
served, that it only leaves them, in this respect, where they are
at present. It is, however, our interest to narrow, upon all oc-
casions, as much as possible, the list of contraband.

The second clause recites the difiiculty of agreeing on the
precise cases in which alone provisions and other articles not
generally contraband, may be regarded as such ; to prevent in-
convenience and misunderstandings, provides, that in the cases in
which, hy the existing laws of nations^ they do become contraband,
they shall not be confiscated ; but, being taken, shall he paid for
at their full value, with a reasonable mercantile profit, freight,
and demurrage.

But one case in which such articles may be deemed contra-
band is, by the succeeding clause, subjected to a particular and dif-
ferent regulation. A vessel with her cargo, going to a port or
place, blockaded, besieged, or invested, if without notice, cannot
be seized or detained, but must be turned back. If she contu-
maciously persists, and makes a second attempt, she may then
be seized, and she and her cargo confiscated.

The last sentence guards our property found in places after-
wards besieged, &c., from vexations and depredations to which
they have been in some cases liable.

The second clause has been the subject of much censure, as
though it sanctioned generally the seizing of provisions and
other articles not generally contraband, on the condition of pay-

^T. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 129

ing for them ; for it is said that all the cases in which the
acknowledged laws of nations authorize such seizure, are differ-
ently provided for in the third clause (those of blockades, sieges,
and investments), and that consequently the provision in the
second must be understood virtually to admit that there are
other cases, and must be referred to the general position set up
and acted upon by Great Britain, in her order of June.
But this argument is erroneous in principle and in fact.

1. The cases in which articles not generally contraband may
be seized, even with compensation, are expressly those in which
"they become contraband according to the existing laws of nations. ^^
The appeal is then to these laws, as the criterion ; and the gov-
ernment will be as free after the treaty as before it, to deny any
arbitrary construction which Great Britain may think fit to put
upon these laws, and to maintain its opposition in all the ways
it may think fit.

2. It is not true that the third clause provides for all the
cases where the acknowledged laws of nations authorize seizure
of such articles. It provides for only one single case — that of a
vessel going without notice to a place blockaded, besieged, or in-
vested. The case of a vessel going to such a place with notice is
not included. Other cases in which provisions &c. may be prop-
erly contraband may be conceived. That of carrying them with
the direct intent of supj)lying a besieging army in the act of car-
rying on the siege, is one ; for there is no reason why the party
besieged should not intercept and seize supplies going to the be-
siegers, as well as the last those which are destined for the be-
sieged.

Various combinations of circumstances, which do not at first
sight occur, may beget other cases in which the seizure may be
justified.

The clause in question, then, speaks simply this language ;
that inasmuch as cases may exist, in which j^rovisions and other
articles not generally contraband become so ; as it is difiicult be-
forehand to define them, as even in the admitted cases of block-
ades, sieges, and investments, it may not always be easy to pro-
nounce what is a blockade, siege, or investment ; as the parties
E 9

130 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

cannot at this time agree upon a definition of the doubtful eases,
they agree at least (with one exception, which has been noticed)
that in all cases of the seizure of such articles as contraband, full
compensation shall be made to the end that in doubtful cases, the
inconvenience being thereby much lessened, the danger of rup-
ture may be diminished by inclining the party which conceives
itself injured to acquiesce in the pecuniary compensation.

But though I have no doubt that this is the true and genuine
sense of the clause, and that it does by no means warrant the
construction put upon it, yet as it may possibly become the pre-
text of abuses on the side of Great Britain, and of complaint on
that of France, I should have liked the treaty better without it.
On the whole, I think this article the worst in the treaty, except
the 12th, though not defective enough to be an objection to its
adoption.

Articles XIX. and XX. These articles require no comment.
They are usual and every way unexceptionable provisions.

Article XXI. This article is liable to no just objection. The
first part of it restrains generally the citizens of each party from
participating in hostilities against the other. This is implied in
the leading article of every treaty of peace, is conformable with
every moral idea — and though more comprehensive in the extent
of the inhibition, is agreeable to the principle of the law of Con-
gress on this subject.

It is also agreeable to the true policy of the United States,
which is, to keep its citizens as much as possible from being
implicated in the quarrels and contests of other nations, in foreign
feelings, interests and prejudices. This is an idea of great impor-
tance to our security in various ways. The only case, if at all, in
which it can be our interest that our citizens should engage in
foreign service, is that of young men of education entering into
foreign service to acquire military knowledge and experience.

But it is conceived that the doing of this in time of peace is
not forbidden. The citizens of each party are not to accept com-
missions from, nor to be permitted to be enlisted by, the enemies
of the other. This seems to suppose a state of war when the
forbidden act is done. The punishment for infractions of this

iET. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 131

part of the article is referred to the laws of the party whose
citizens commit them. No precise one is defined.

The latter part of the clause subjects to the penalties of
piracy the citizens of one party accepting commissions from the
enemy of the other for arming any vessel to act as a privateer.

A similar provision is to be found in all our commercial
treaties heretofore made, and is familiar in the commercial
treaties of other powers during the present century. It has
wisely become the policy of nations to confine the mischievous
practice of privateering to the belligerent parties. This is pecu-
liarly our true policy; as from situation the contrary would
never fail to compromise our peace.

It is to be observed that this crime of piracy does not extend
to land service, nor to service on board of public ships of war,
conynonly called men-of-war.

Article XXII. This is a reasonable and usual provision in
affirmance of the laws of nations, and calculated to prevent war.

Article XXIII. This article merely stipulates those rights of
hospitality which the courtesy and humanity of nations owe to
each other, and which it has been the endeavor of our govern-
ment to observe. It does not extend to privateers, which are
never denominated ships of war, and consequently does not
interfere with our treaty with France as hitherto interpreted and
acted upon.

Articles XXIV. and XXV. These articles, which are com-
patible with the rules of neutrality and the rights of belligerent
nations, are becoming formulas in most modern treaties. They
are to be found essentially in our treaties with France, Sweden,
and partly if not wholly in that with Prussia, and in the treaty
of 1786 between France and Great Britain. They stipulate :

I. That the enemies of one party shall not arm their priva-
teers in the ports of the other.

II. That they shall not sell their prizes there.

III. That they shall not be allowed to purchase more provi-
sions than are sufficient to carry them to the nearest port of the
prince or state to which they belong.

IV. That the ships of war or privateers of the two contracting

132 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38,

parties may carry whithersoever they please the prizes made of
their respective enemies, without being obliged on entering the
ports of each other to pay fees, or being detained or seized or
subject to search, except to prevent infractions of the laws of
revenue, navigation, and commerce, or having cognizance taken
of the validity of their prizes, and with free liberty to depart to
the places mentioned in their commissions which they are ta
show.

V, That no shelter or refuge shall be given to such as have
made prizes of each other's ships or vessels, but if forced by
stress of weather to enter, their departure is to be hastened.

yi. That while the parties continue in amity, they will make
no future treaty inconsistent with these two articles. But there
is this express proviso^ that nothing in the treaty shall be construed
or operate contrary to former and existing public treaties with qther
sovereigns or states.

Hence while on the one hand these articles make no unrea-
sonable stipulations in favor of Great Britain, they can by no
possibility interfere with j)rior stipulations to France or any
other power. If, consequently, there is any repugnancy, the
treaty with Great Britain must give way to those prior treaties.
There is only one particular in the conduct hitherto observed
towards France in which the treaty with Great Britain will pro-
duce an alteration, that is the sellhig of prizes in our ports ; be-
cause this indulgence has been granted not upon the ground of
any obligation to do it to be found in our treaty with France^
but upon that of there being no law of the United States against
it. The 24th article of the present treaty will be a law against
it, and will restrain it.

But nothing can be more proper ; and I well remember, that
when it was concluded to permit the selling of prizes, it was
unanimously regretted that the Executive, for want of law, could
not do otherwise. Because the measure had an unneutral as-
pect, permitting to one party a military advantage which our
treaty with that party did not leave us at liberty to extend to
the other ; and was of very questionable propriety. The per-
mission was of a nature to give much dissatisfaction to the other

Mt. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN.
powers. A revocation of it, therefore, by a treaty with, one of
those powers, is unexceptionably equitable. The clause which
restrains the making of future treaties in the given case, has been
grossly misunderstood. It is expressly confined to the two arti-
cles, and, for aught I see, is nugatory. For a treaty implies of
itself, that while the contracting parties remain in amity, they
shall make no subsequent treaty inconsistent with the prior one
between those parties.

Articles XXVI., XXVII. These articles need no particular
comment. They are liberal and equitable, and interfere with no
interest or duty. The part which regards ambassadors and min-
isters, is calculated to avoid very delicate embarrassments, and
to exclude intrigues and bad conduct in foreign ministers. It
would be a valuable article in all our treaties.

Article XXVIII. The effect of this article is to enable either
party in two years after the termination of the existing Eu-
ropean war, to put an end to all the articles of the treaty except
the first ten.

This, upon the whole, is a desirable ingredient. It makes
the commercial part of the treaty a mere experiment of short du-
ration, and enables each party, if any part of it should be found
to work amiss, or if it thinks that upon the whole the treaty is
not sufficiently advantageous, to put an end to it unless the parts
not satisfactory can be amended, or the additional provisions
which are desired can be- agreed upon.

Article XXIX. This, which is the last article, provides merely
for the ratification, and looks to future negotiations for more be-
neficial arrangements.

To these particular views of the different articles of the treaty,
the following general views may be added.

The truly important side of this treaty is, that it closes, and
vipon the whole as reasonably as could have been expected, the
controverted points between the two countries; and thereby
gives us the prospect of repossessing our western posts, an object
of primary consequence in our affairs, of escaping finally from
being implicated in the dreadful war which is ruining Europe,

134 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 38.

and of preserving ourselves in a state of peace for a considera-
ble time to come.

Well considered, the greatest interest of this country in its
external relations, is that of peace. The more or less of commer-
cial advantages which we may acquire by particular treaties, are
of far less moment. With peace, the force of circumstances will
enable us to make our way sufficiently fast in trade. War, at
this time, would give a serious wound to our growth and pros-
perity. Can we escape it for ten or twelve years more, we may
then meet it without much inquietude, and may advance and
support with energy and effect, any just pretensions to greater
commercial advantages than we may enjoy.

It follows that the objects contained in the permanent articles
are of real and great value to us. The price they will cost us
in the article of compensation for the debts, is not likely to bear
any proportion to the expenses of a single campaign to enforce
our rights. The calculation is therefore a simple and a plain
one. The terms are no way inconsistent with national honor.
As to the commercial arrangements in the temporary articles,
they can be of no great importance either way ; if it were only
for the circumstance that it is in the power of either party to ter-
minate them within two years after the war. So short a dura-
tion renders them unimportant, however considered as to in-
trinsic merit.

Intrinsically considered, they have -no very jDositive charac-
ter of advantage or disadvantage. They will in all probability
leave the trade between the two countries where it at present is.

Supplementary Remarhs.

There is however one material circumstance in which this
will not happen. The XVth article declares that there shall be
no prohibition of the importation of, or exportation to and from
the respective territories of the contracting parties, which shall
not equally extend to all other nations. This permits us to carry
to the British dominions any article the growth or manufacture
of another country, which may be carried from such coun-

jEt. 38.] TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN. 135

try to those dominions. This is a serious innovation on the
British navigation act, and an important privilege to us.

It is to be remarked, however, that it does not secure to us
the continuance of these discriminations in our favor, compared
with foreign powers, which have in practice existed ; but as
these discriminations have always been revocable at the pleasure
of the other party, and are evidently founded on the interest that
party has to procure the supply from us, rather than from other
quarters, the inference is that the security for the continuance of
the advantage is as great as before.

The obstacle to its becoming matter of stipulation was, that
it was deemed to be inconsistent with treaties with other powers.

Comparing this treaty with the commercial treaties heretofore
entered into by the United States, the real advantage is on the
side of the former.

As to the European dominions of the different powers, the
footing will be essentially equal.

As to their colonies, Great Britain gives us greater advan-
tages hy this treaty^ than any other nation having colonies hy its
treaty. There is nothing in any of our other treaties equivalent
to the advantages granted to us in the British East Indies. To
this may be added the advantages contained in the Canada
article.

Against this may be set the stipulation that free ships shall
make free goods ; and the extended enumeration of contraband ;
but besides that these are provisions relative to a state of war,
our experience in the present war, in reference to France, has
shown us that the advantages expected are not to be counted
upon.

Since then the permanent articles are of material conse-
quence, the temporary ones of small importance ; since our faith
is preserved with other powers; since there are no improper
concessions on our part, but rather more is gained than given, it
follows that it is the interest of the United States that the treaty
should go into effect.

But will it give no umbrage to France ?

It cannot do it, unless France is unreasonable ; because our

136 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

t

engagements with lier remain unimpaired, and because she will

still be upon as good a footing as Great Britain. We are in a

deplorable situation if we cannot secure our peace, and promote

our own interests, bj means which not only do not derogate

from our faith, but which leave the same advantages to France

as to other powers with whom we form treaties. Equality is all

that can be claimed from us. It is improbable that France will

take umbrage, because there is no cause given for it; because

there is no disjDOsition on her part to break with us, and because

her situation forbids a breach.

But will it not hinder us from making a more beneficial
treaty with France ?

This can only turn upon the question of equivalents to be
given by us.

As to this, though our treaty with England would prevent
in many particulars our giving preferences to France ; yet there
are still important points from the natural relations of commerce,
which are open to arrangements beneficial to France, and which
might serve as equivalents.

There is not leisure to enter into the detail, or this might be
shown. It may however be mentioned, by way of example,
that we may lower, or remove wholly, the duties on French
wines, which would be one important item.

But it would be always very unwise to refrain from doing
with one power, a thing which it was our interest to do, because
there was a possihUity that some other power might be willing
to make a better bargain with us.

What evidence has France given that she is disposed to
make such better bargain ? All that she has hitherto proffered
under her present government, has contemplated as the consi-
deration our becoming parties to the war. As she will and ought
to calculate her own interest, we ought to dismiss the expecta-
tion of peculiar favors. Favors, indeed, in trade, are yerj ab-
surd, and generally imaginary things. Let it be remembered,
too, that the short necessary duration of our treaty, leaves us a
wide field future and not remote. But upon the whole, we shall
be least likely to be deceived, by taking this as the basis of our

iET. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 137

commercial system, that we are not to make particular sacrifices
to, nor expect particular favors from any power.

It is conceived, therefore, upon the whole, to be the true in-
terest of the United States, to close the present treaty with
Great Britain in the manner advised by the Senate.

A. Hamilton.

MILITAKY PAPERS.

SECEETARY OF WAR TO HAMILTON.

War Department, July 25th, 1798.

Sir:

I am directed to inform you that the President of the United
States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, has
appointed you Inspector-General, with the rank of Major-Gene-
ral, and to transmit you your commission made out accordingly.

It may be proper to mention, that the nominations to the
Senate for the general officers of the established and provisional
army, were presented on the same day, and in the order in which
they appear in the annexed list ; and that in registering them in
this department, the same order will be observed.

Permit me to add to this information, that as no command
can be immediately given to the general officers, the President
conceives they will consider it proper that the pay and emolu-
ments of their respective commissions ought not to commence
previous to their being called into actual service, and to flatter
myself that all considerations of a private nature will yield to
the crisis, and afford me the pleasure of communicating your
acceptance to the President.

I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,

James McHenry.

138 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 41.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

Philadelphia, July 28, 1798.

Sir:

I last evening had the honor of receiving your letter of the
25th inst., announcing to me my appointment as Inspector and
Major-General. At a crisis like the present, I esteem it my
duty to obey the call of the government. Feeling, too, as I
ought, the value of the high confidence which is reposed in me,
I beg you to convey to the President my most cordial acknow-
ledgments, and the assurance of my best endeavor to merit it.
With great respect and esteem, I am, sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

July 28tli, 1798.

Allow me to remind you of my nephew, Philip Church,
whom I warmly recommend for a captaincy in the infantry.

He is the eldest son of his father ; has had a good education ;
is a young man of sense, of genuine spirit and worth — of consi-
derable expectations in point of fortune. I shall esteem his ap-
pointment to this grade a personal favor, while I believe that it
will consist with every rule of propriety.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

Philadelphia, July 30th, 1798.

Dear McHenry:

Scruj)les of delicacy have occasioned me to hesitate about
offering to you certain ideas which it appears to me, on mature

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. V69

reflection, cannot be witliheld consistently either with friendship
to you, or regard to the service.

I observe you plunged in a vast mass of details. I know from
experience, that it is impossible for any man, whatever be his
talents or diligence, to wade through such a mass, without ne-
glecting the most material things, and attaching to his operations
a feebleness and sloth of execution. It is essential to the suc-
cess of the minister of a great department, that he subdivide the
objects of his care, distribute them among competent assistants,
and content himself with a general but vigilant superintendence.
This course is particularly necessary when an unforeseen emer-
gency has suddenly accumuMed a number of new objects to be
provided for and executed.

Hence you will give me leave, in all the frankness of friend
ship, to express to you an opinion that you will do well to call
effectually to your aid the Inspector- General, and likewise Ma-
jor-General Knox, and to charge them with the management of
particular branches of the service.

You already contemplate, and very properly, that the Inspec-
tor-General shall occupy himself in preparing a system of tactics
and discipline. But will it not be expedient and natural to
charge him also with superintending the recruiting service?
and may he not be made useful in other ways to the business of
the department ? General Knox, if he can be drawn to the seat
of government, may be rendered extensively useful, especially in
whatever relates to the artillery branch.

But you will perceive that ideas of this sort presuppose an
abandonment of the plan of suspending the emoluments of these
officers. They cannot aiford to give their time and attention
without compensation. As to myself, I must be free to confess
that this is utterly impossible, I have the less embarrassment
in making the declaration, because it must be obvious that the
plan is against my pecuniary interest. Serious occupation in
my military office must involve the relinquishment substantially
of my profession ; and the exchange of from three to four thou-
sand pounds for the compensation of Inspector-General, is evi-1
dently but a sorry bargain.
Yours, truly, &c.

140 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

ADAMS TO HAMILTON.

QciNCY, September 4, 1798.

Sir:

I have received your favor of the 22d of August, recom-
mending Colonel Toussard to be Inspector of Artillery.

I liave no reason to suspect that your entire confidence in his
honor and fidelity is misplaced. But as his native country is
France, and his speech betrays his original, I am very apprehen-
sive that in a French war, neither the army nor the people
would be without their jealousies 'and suspicions, which might
be very injurious to the service.

I shall take the subject into consideration, and your judg-
ment will have great weight. There has been already so much
uneasiness expressed on account of the French officers in the
artillery, that I expect much difficulty.

I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

John Adams.

ADAMS to HAMILTON.

QaiNCY, October, 17, 1798.

Sir:

I have received, last night, a letter from his Excellency Gov-
ernor Jay, enclosing a copy of an act of the legislature of New-
York, for the further defence of that State, and for other pur-
poses.

The Governor observes that it appears to be the intention of
that act, that the money appropriated in it, 150,000 dollars, shall
be laid out only in the manner which the national government
will recognize as useful and advisable, and His Excellency pro-
poses to my consideration whether it would not be expedient to
authorize Major-General Hamilton, as a national officer in whom

JEt. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 141

great confidence may be placed, to concert with the Governor the
plan of laying out the money to the best advantage, and to ap-
point the General to superintend the execution of it.

I have not hesitated to comply with the Governor's request,
saving all right of the legislature of the United States.

Accordingly I hereby request you, sir, to concert with His
Excellency the plan, and to superintend the execution of it, at
least, until some other arrangement shall be made, if any other
should hereafter be thought expedient.

With great esteem, I have the honor to be. Sir,

Your obedient and humble servant,

John Adams.

Major-General Alexander Hamilton. New-York.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, October 19, 1798.

Sir:

I was yesterday honored with your letter, transmitting my
commission as Inspector and Major-General.

Agreeably to your desire, I hold myself prepared to attend
you within the period you assign. But as the object appears to
embrace a concert of advice and assistance with General Knox
(who cannot be expected in much less than the utmost limit of
the time prescribed), I shall permit myself to defer my journey
so as to reach you about the first of November, unless I am told
that an anticipation of that day is deemed requisite.

I cannot but observe with satisfaction the conclusion of your
letter as to the relative rank of the three Major-Generals.

I received at the same time your letter of the 11th instant,
having been absent from the city for five days past.

I shall to-day confer with Major Hoops and Colonel Stevens
on the subject of it, chiefly to ascertain the actual state of things,
and by to-morrow's post will communicate my opinion.

142 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR JAY.

New-York, October 29, 1798.

Sir:

I received this day a letter from tlie President of the United
States, requesting me to concert with you the plan and to super-
intend the execution of it, for giving effect to the act of the legis-
lature of this State, and for other purposes. This I am accord-
ingly ready to do whenever you shall be pleased to require it.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, October 29, 1798.

Dear Sir :

Some ill health in my family, now at an end, as I hope, inter-
fered with an earlier acknowledgment of your favor of the 21st
instant. The contents cannot but be gratifying to me. It is my
intention, if not prevented by further ill health in my family, to
proceeed on the first of ISTovember, to Trenton. My aid to the
Secretary to the full extent of what he shall permit me to afford,
will not be withheld. But every day brings fresh room to ap- j
prehend that, whatever may be the props, the administration of
the War Department cannot prosper in the present very well dis-
posed but very unqualified hands.

Most respectfully and affectionately,

I have the honor to remain, dear Sir,

Your obliged and obedient,

A. H.

G. Washington.

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 143

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Nov. 12th, 1798.

Sir:

Herewith you will be furnislied with a copy of a letter from
the Secretary of War to me, suggesting many very important
matters for consideration and to be reported on.

It is my desire that you will bestow serious and close atten-
tion on them, and be prepared to offer your opinion on each
head, when called upon.

I also propose, for your consideration and opinion, a number
of queries which had been noted by me, previous to the receipt
of the Secretary's letter (now inclosed). In stating these, I had
endeavored to avoid, and make them additional to, the objects
which the Secretary of War, in a letter to me, dated the 16th
ultimo, informed me would be subjects for my consideration. I
find, however, that several of them, in substance, are contained
in his last letter ; but as they were digested previous thereto,
and written, I shall, to save copying, lay them before you as
they are, without expunging those parts which now appear in
the Secretary's statement.

With very great esteem and regard,

I am, Sir,

Your most obd't servant,
George Washington.

M'^HENRY TO WASHINGTON.

Questions submitted to the Commander-in- Chief.

War Department, November 10, 1798.

Sir:

It appears by a letter from the President, dated Quincy, Oc-
tober 22d, 1798, that it will not be in his power to be in Phila-

144 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 41.

delpliia till near the time fixed upon for the meeting of Congress.
In order, however, to prevent any injury to the public service, as
it respects officering the troops directed to be raised by the late
acts of Congress, he has written to me as follows : " If you and
the generals judge it necessary to appoint the officers of battalions
before we can have opportunity to nominate them to the Senate,
you may fill up the commissions with the blanks you have, or,
if you have not enough, send new ones by post."

I have thought it proper, in pursuance of this authority, to
submit to you a list of all those persons, who have been recom-
mended for commissions in the army, with their letters of pre
tensions, and also a list of all the officers of the revolutionary
army ; and to request that you will, with the aid of Generals
Hamilton and Pinckney, prepare from these, and any other
sources of information, a list of the most deserving and suitable
characters, in your estimation, to fill the difierent grades to which
the authority cited applies.

I have also, in conformity with my letter to you, dated the
16th of August ultimo, to request that you would submit to Gen-
erals Hamilton and Pinckney (General Knox having declined his
appointment) the following questions, and that you would be
pleased to take the same into mature consideration, and report to
me the result of your deliberations.

1. Will it be expedient and proper to select the officers and
raise the men for the twelve regiments of infantry and six com-
panies of cavalry from the following districts, and in the follow-
ing proportions, or as nearly so as circumstances will admit?
First ; the officers and men for four regiments of infantry from
within the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecti-
cut, Rhode Island, and Vermont. Secondly; the officers and
men for four regiments of infantry from within the States of
New- York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland.
Thirdly ; the officers and men for four regiments of infantry
from within the States of Virginia, Kentucky, North Carolina,
Tennessee, South Carolina, and Georgia. Fourthly ; the whole
or a principal part of the officers and men of the six companies
of cavalry from within the district where it is most likely they
will have to serve.

Mt. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS,
2. If these questions are determined in the affirmative, then
whether, in making the selection of OxHcers, the least exception-
able rule for determining the numbers to be taken from each
State within the respective divisions aforesaid will not be by
their relative number of inhabitants according to the census,
whenever the application of this rule will not introduce the least
worthy, to the exclusion of more meritorious characters.

According to this rule, the fbllowmg table will exhibit pretty
nearly the proportion of officers and men to be drawn from the
respective States for the twelve regiments of infantry.

States.

Infantry.

Lt.-Cole.

Majors.

Captains.

Licuta.

Ensigns.

New Hampshire
1
4
4

Massachusetts
2
20
20

Rhode Island .
3
3

Connecticut
1
10
10

Vermont ....
1
3
New-York ....
1
10
10

New Jersey
1
6
6

Pennsylvania
1
13
13

Delaware
1
1
Maryland ....
1
10
10

Virginia ....
2
20
20

North Carolina .
1
9
9

South Carolina
1
6
6

Georgia ....
1
2
Kentucky
2
2

Tennessee ....
1
4

3. Whether, in the present state of things, it is expedient
and proper to proceed immediately to the appointment of the
officers, or to suspend their appointment until the meeting of
Congress.

4. Whether, in the present state of our foreign relations, it is
expedient and proper to proceed, immediately after the appoint-
ment of the officers, to recruit the whole of the twelve regiments
of infantry, and six companies of cavalry. If inexpedient to re-
cruit the whole, then what part thereof will it be proper to
recruit, and in which district or districts of the Union ?

E 10

146 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

5. Whether, if determined that a part only ought to be forth-
with recruited, it will be expedient, notwithstanding, to appoint
the whole of the officers ; and whether it ought to be signified to
them, that they are not to be entitled to pay, &c., previous to
being called into actual service.

6. Will it be expedient and proper to withdraw any of the
troops stationed upon the northwestern and southern frontiers,
namely, on the Lakes, between the Lakes and the rivers Ohio
and Mississippi, and on the Tennessee and Georgia frontier
bounding on the Indians and the river St. Mary's, with a view
to reinforce the troops on the seaboard frontier ?

7. The stations of the before mentioned troops and their
numbers will be seen by the annexed return and letters from
Brigadier General Wilkinson. If inexpedient that any of these
should be withdrawn, will it be proper to reinforce them with
the two companies, directed by a late act of Congress to be added
to each of the old regiments of infantry ?

8. What distribution, under the present aspect of affairs,
ouo-ht to be made of the troops and recruits noiv on our sea-
board frontier, the description, places of rendezvous, stations^
and numbers of which are exhibited in the annexed return ?

9. What number of the troops to he raised ought to be sta-
tioned in the respective divisions aforesaid, and in what places ?

10. Will it be best for the service and discipline, that the re-
cruits should be supplied by contracts at the enlisting rendezvous,
as now practised ; or to allow to each recruit a fixed sum per
diem in lieu of his ration, previous to his joining the general
rendezvous or encampment within his division ?

11. Ought the army when in the field to be supplied with ra-
tions by means of purchasing and issuing commissaries, or by
contract, as at present '/

12. What quantity and kinds of cannon, field-artillery, mili-
tary stores, and other articles necessary to an operating army,
such as may be raised, will it be proper to procure, in addition
to what is exhibited as on hand, agreeably to the annexed return
by the superintendent of military stores, and that may be ex-
pected to be procured in consequence of the annexed letter from
the Secretary of the Treasury ?

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 147

13. Our greatest deposits of artillery and military stores are
at Springfield in Massaclmsetts, and Philadelphia in Pennsyl-
vania. We, are besides forming magazines near Harper's Ferry,
on the Potomac, in Virginia, and at Fayetteville, in North Caro-
lina. Ought there to be any other places established for princi-
pal magazines than these four, and the subordinate deposits
mentioned in the aforesaid return ?

As it will be proper, in the course of your deliberations, to
ascertain from the Secretary of the Treasury whether he can fur-
nish the moneys necessary for the military service, I inclose an
estimate made out some time since, showing the money which I
thought would be required, and the periods at which it might
be wanted, for the maintenance of the old and new army ; and
to provide certain military articles, for which appropriations
have been made by late acts of Congress, and for clothing for the
provisional army.

It may also be proper, that you should confer with the Sec-
retary of State on the subject of our foreign relations, as well as
the Secretary of the Treasury on the extent and reliance which
may be placed on our resources and finances, to assist you to
mature your opinion upon some of the points submitted. I need
not add, that the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the
Treasury will cheerfully give you every information, which you
may think it necessary to request.

With the greatest respect,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your most obedient and humble servant,

James M'Henry.

148 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 41.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON AND PINCKNEY.

Queries propounded hij the Commander-in-Cidef to Majors General
Hamilton and Pinchney.

Philadelphia, November 10th, 1798.

1st. Is an invasion of the United States, by France, to be
apprehended, whilst that power continues at war with Great
Britain ?

2d. In case such an invasion should take place, what part of
the United States, in their opinion, is most likely to be first
attacked ?

8d. Is it probable that the French will, in the way of ex-
change, or by other means, become possessed of the Floridas and
Louisiana ? .

4th. In case of such an event, what, probably, will be the con-
sequences, as they relate to the United States ? What measures
will be best to counteract them ? And can those measures be
carried into effect promptly^ by the Commander-in-Chief of the
armies? Or, must they be previously submitted to the AVar
OfQce ? 1^" This question, it will be perceived, presupposes a
force in existence.

5th. What can be done to supply our present deficiency of
engineers ? From whence and by what means are they to be
obtained ? Should a Frenchman be employed at any ratef

6th. Would not riflemen, in place of light infantry, be eligible
as a component part of each regiment ; and, in that case, would
Ferguson's Kifles claim a preference?

7th. Under the idea that each grand division of the United
States is to furnish four regiments of the augmented forces, and
each State, according to the census, the population, or medium
between the two, is to raise its proportion ; how many places in
each (its extent being considered), and where, ought to be as-
signed as rendezvouses, during the recruiting service ? At what
place ought the general rendezvous in each State to be fixed,
during the said period ? And at what place or places in the

^T. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 149

United States ought the augmented force to assemble? If at
more than one place, how many, where, and the number at
each?

8th. Of how many pieces of ordnance, of what sorts, and of
what calibre, ought the park of artillery to consist, independently
of what is attached to brigades or regiments ? And how many
ought each of these to have ?

9th. Would it be advisable (after an adequate force is re-
cruited) to withdraw the troops which at present occupy the
posts on our northern and western frontiers, and replace them
with new raised corps?

10th. Of how many ranks do the French form their line of
battle generally f Do they make much use of pikes? And
would it be an eligible weapon with which to arm part of our
soldiery, as that is the nation with which we expect to contend ?
General Pinckney may, from personal observation, be enabled
to solve these two questions ?

Queries relative to smaller matters, but meriting considera-
tion, as an army is now commencing more systematically than
formerly ; the rules, regulations, and distinctions in which, may
give a tone to measures which may prevail hereafter,

1st. If the clothing of the regiments, and the fashion of their
clothing, with distinctions between one regiment and another,
are not already ordered by the proper authority, and in track of
execution, what had they best be ?

2d. Would not cotton or (still more so) flannel be advisable
for shirting and linings for the soldiery ?

3d. What had best be the distinctions in dress, in the badges,
and other peculiarities, between the Commander-in-Chief and
his suit, and the Majors General and their aids? Between the
latter and the Brigadiers and theirs ? And between these, again,
and the regimental officers? Also among the regimental offi-
cers themselves, commissioned and non-commissioned? And
whether the staff (not in the line of the army) of the different
departments, both commissioned and warrant officers, ought not
to be designated by their dress, or some appropriate mark or

150 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 41.

badge? and in every case, and at all times, in the camp or
field, be compelled to wear them, as well for tbe purpose of de-
noting the corps to which they belong, as a mean by which
irregularities, rioting, and improper conduct may be discovered
with more ease ?

4th. As there has been many objections to, and remarks made
upon, the black cockade (being that of Great Britain), might not
something be devised, by way of annexation thereto, to distin-
guish it from that of any other nation ? I have seen — and it
appeared to have no bad effect — a small eagle (of pewter, tin,
and, in some instances, silver), fixed by way of button in the
centre of a rose cockade, which was not only very distinguish-
able, but somewhat characteristic.

The sooner these queries are taken into consideration, and
opinions given on them, more agreeable will it be to

George Washington.

HAMILTON TO JAY.

Philadelphia, Nov. 19, 1798.

Sir:

Your letter of the 5th November has recently reached me at
this place, and found me amongst avocations that scarcely leave
me a moment to spare.

You will probably have learned from General Clarkson that
the survey of the port has been completed.

But I do not recollect that I have had any answer to a sug-
gestion in one of my letters respecting the employment of engi-
neers to assist in forming the desired plan.

This appears to me an essential preliminary. It is very pos-
sible the contrary may have been said to you by persons of
whose intelligence you may have a good opinion. Self-sufficiency, ."
and a contempt of the science and experience of others are too/I .
prevailing traits of character in this country. '

^T.41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 151

But as far as I am to he concerned auxiliary lights are a sine
qvui non.

I do not feel myself adequate to tlie complicated task of an
engineer unaided by men of more teclinical knowledge than
myself.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 26th November, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I was this morning favored with yours of the 19th instant, in
which you observe that you do not recollect to have had any
answer to a suggestion in one of your letters respecting the em-
ployment of engineers to assist in forming the desired plan for
fortifying the port of New- York. No letter containing such a
suggestion has reached me, those of the 8th of September and
29th of October, being the only ones on the subject of fortifying
New-York which I have received from you since the passing of
the act, do not contain any thing about engineers.

The plan, doubtless, should be formed under all attainable
advantages, and I not only agree, but desire, that you avail your-
self of all the important aids within your reach, and I will
provide for the expense. It is proper, however, to bear in mind
the provision of the act, that the money appropriated by it to
this object, be expended under the direction of the President of
the United States. It is therefore proper that the plan in ques-
tion should be formed as much as possible under the auspices
of the national government, and with the aid and approbation of
the officers they most confide in. I presume the President will,
on your application, readily direct any of the engineers in the
service to assist in it, and I shall, on receiving the least hint from
you, be ready to request that favor from him.

If, in the course of business, you should think any measures
on my part necessary or useful, I will thank you to mention them.

152 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 41.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

Philadelphia, November, 1798.

Sir:

I now communicate the result of my conference with the
Commander-in-Chief and General Pinckney, on the subject of
extra allowance to ofl&cers detached on service, so as to be obliged
to incur expenses on the road, and at places where there are no
military posts.

We are all of opinion, that in such cases an extra allowance
ought to be made, and this even to ofl&cers who receive extra
compensations for peculiar duties, such as inspectors, quarter-
masters, &c. These extra compensations are considered as rela-
tive to ideas of greater skill or greater trouble^ rather than to that
of greater expense, in the execution of the offices to which they
are annexed. Without extra allowance in the cases in question,
it is easy to see that officers may exhaust in extra expenses their
whole pay, and that great difficulty must be experienced in find-
ing fit characters to execute employments which may expose
these persons to frequent journeys. It is useless to say that the
principle will not apply where the law shall have specifically
provided for travelling expenses.

But the greatest embarrassment is to settle the rule of extra
allowances. Shall they be left at large on the ground of reasona-
ble expenses according to circumstances, or shall fixed rates be
attempted ? The former is liable to great abuse, and the latter is
not easy to be regulated so as to unite economy with justice. It
is, however, our opinion that it ought to be attempted.

In adjusting a rate or rates, it is to be remembered, that the
officer receives established allowances for his time, service and
expenses. A full compensation is not therefore to be aimed at
in the extra allowances, but something proportioned to the
probable excess of expense. This has governed the estimate
which is now submitted, viz. a dollar and a quarter per day for
man and horse for each day, that the ofiicer must sleep at a place
not a military post, and when the officer is of a rank to be

Mt.41.] military papers. 153

entitled to a servant, then tlie addition of tliree quarters of a
dollar per day for the servant and his horse. This to apply to
all but the seat of government and the principal town in each
State. At such places the allowance to be a dollar and a half for
the officer and his horse, and a dollar for the servant and his
horse. It is understood that the established allowances to the
officer go on at the same time.

The case of an officer detached from one military post to
another which he may reach the same night, but yet so far dis-
tant as to incur expense on the road, was not provided for in
the above arrangement.

It is my opinion that half a dollar per day will suffice for
such cases, and this only where the distance is not less than forty
miles. The servant may in such cases, without inconvenience,
take his provisions with him.

It may, perhaps, be expedient to regulate a day's journey by
a number of miles, and for this the following proportions may
not be improper: forty miles to a day, when the whole distance
does not exceed two hundred miles ; thirty to a day for all above
two hundred, and not exceeding three hundred and fifty, and
twenty-five to a day for all above three hundred and fifty, and
not exceeding six hundred ; twenty to a day for all above six
hundred.

But while these rates are offered as the general rule, it is
foreseen that there may arise extraordinary cases where greater
allowances may be indispensable. Such cases must be referred
to the special discretion of the head of the War Department, to be
assisted by a certificate from the commanding officer, by whom
the officer claiming was detached on the special service, stating
the reasons and circumstances. It is my opinion too, on which
point also I have not consulted any other, that the rates ought
not to retrospect but ought to be established for the future, and
that in all past and intervening cases, applying only the general
principle, reasonable expenses, according to circumstances, ought
to govern. The application of a new rule may produce hardship
and injustice when the service may have been performed in the
expectation that practice on former occasions would prevail.

154 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 41

HAMILTON" TO WASHINGTON.

December 13th, 1798.
General Hamilton presents his respects to the Commander-in-
Chief, and sends the sketch of a letter, in conformity to what
passed this morning.

WASHINGTON TO MCHENRY, SECRETARY OP WAR.
Draft by Hamilton.

Philadelphia, December 13th, 1798.

Sir:

Since my arrival at this place, I have been closely engaged,
with the aid of Generals Hamilton and Pinckney, in fulfilling
the objects of your letter of the 10th of November. The result
is now submitted.

The first two questions you propose, respecting the appoint-
ment of the officers and men of the troops to be raised, in virtue
of the act of Congress of the 16th of July last, among districts
and States, will naturally be answered together.

1. As to the appointment of the commissioned officers of the
infantry, no particular reason is discovered to exist at the present
period for combining the States into districts ; but it is con-
ceived to be expedient to adopt as a primary rule the relative
representative population of the several States. The practice of
the government on other occasions in the appointment of public
officers, has had regard, as far as was practicable, to the same
general principle, as one which, by a distribution of honors and
emoluments among the citizens of the different States, tends
both to justice and to public satisfaction. This principle, how-
ever, must frequently yield to the most proper selection of char-
acters among those willing as well as qualified to serve, and
sometimes to collateral considerations, which, arising out of par-

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 155

ticular cases, do not admit of precise specification. In the ap-
plication of the rule in this, as in other instances, qualifications of
it must be admitted. The arrangement, which will be now
offered, proceeds on this basis. You will observe, that it does
not deviate from the table you have presented.

2. As to the non-commissioned officers and privates, it is con-
ceived to be both unnecessary and inexpedient to make any ab-
solute appointment among the States. It is unnecessary, be-
cause, contemplating it as desirable that the men shall be drawn
in nearly equal proportions from the respective States, this
object, where circumstances are favorable, will be attained by
the very natural and proper arrangement of assigning to the
officers, who shall be appointed, recruiting districts within the
States to which they belong. It is inexpedient, because if it
shall happen, that the proportion of fit men cannot easily be had
in a particular State, there ought to be no obstacle to obtaining
them elsewhere.

3. As to the ofl&cers of the dragoons, it does not seem advisa-
ble to confine the selection to any subdivision of the United
States. Though very strong conjectures may be formed, as to
the quarter in which they would probably be employed in the
case of invasion, there can be nothing certain on this point, if
this were even the criterion of a proper arrangement. And it
may be presumed, that it will conduce most to the general satis-
faction to exclude considerations of local aspect. But from the
small number of this corps, which is to be raised, it would be
found too fractional, and, for that among other reasons, incon-
venient to aim at a proportional distribution among all the
States. It is therefore supposed most advisable to be governed
principally by a reference to the characters, who have occurred
as candidates; leaving the inequality in the distribution to be
remedied in the event of a future augmentation of this descrip-
tion of troops. The proportion at present is in various views
inadequate ; a circumstance, which it may be presumed will of
course be attended to, should the progress of public danger lead
to an extension of military preparations.

The materials furnished by you, with the addition of those

156 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

derived from other sources, are insufficient for a due selection of
the officers, whom it is proposed to allot to the States of Con-
necticut, North and South Carolina, and Georgia. Hence the
selection for these States must of necessity be deferred. It is
conceived, that the best plan for procuring the requisite informa-
tion and accelerating a desirable conclusion, as to the three last
mentioned States, will be to choose Major General Pinckney, who
will avail himself of the assistance of Brigadier Generals Davie
and Washington, to make the arrangement of those officers pro-
visionally, and subject to the ratification of the President. It
will be in their power to ascertain who are best qualified among
those willing to serve ; which will at the same time assure a good
choice, and avoid the disappointment and embarrassment of re-
fusals. As to Connecticut, you are aware of the progress that
has been made, and of the misapprehension which has occasioned
an obstacle to a definitive arrangement. You will, it is presumed,
be speedily in possession of the further information necessary,
and, having it, can without difficulty complete the arrangement
for this State.

The third, fourth, and fifth of your questions may likewise
be answered together.

The act for augmenting the army is peremptory in its pro-
visions. The bounds of executive discretion, as to the forbear-
ance to execute such a law, might perhaps involve an investiga-
tion nice in its own nature, and of a kind which it is generally
most prudent to avoid. But it may safely be said negatively,
for reasons too plain to be doubted, that the voluntary suspen-
sion of the execution of a similar law could not be justified but
by considerations of decisive cogency. The existence of any
such considerations is unknown.

Nothing has been communicated respecting our foreign re-
lations to induce the opinion, that there has been any change in
the situation of the country, as to external danger, which dic-
tates an abandonment of the policy of the law in question. It
needs not now be examined how far it may be at any time pru-
dent to relinquish measures of security, suggested by the experi-
ence of accumulated hostility, merely because there are probable

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 157

symptoms of approaching accommodation. It needs not be
urged, that, if such symptoms exist, they are to be ascribed to
the measures of vigor adopted by the government, and may be
frustrated by a relaxation in those measures, affording an argu-
ment of weakness or irresolution. For, has it not been in sub-
stance stated from the highest authority, that no decisive indica-
tions have been given by France of a disposition to redress our
past wrongs and do us future justice ; that her decree, alleged to
be intended to restrain the depredations of French cruisers on
our commerce, has not given, and from its nature cannot give,
relief; that the most hostile of the acts, by which she has op-
pressed the commerce of neutrals, and that which subjects to
capture and condemnation neutral vessels and cargoes, if any
part of the latter be of British production or fabric, not only has
not been abrogated, but has recently received an indirect con-
firmation ; and that hitherto nothing is discoverable in the con-
duct of France, which ought to change or relax our measures of
defence ?

Could it be necessary to enforce by argument so authorita-
tive a declaration, as it relates to the immediate object of con-
sideration, these, among other reflections, would at once present
themselves.

Though it may be true, that some late occurrences have ren-
dered the prospect of invasion by France less probable or more
remote, yet, duly considering the rapid vicissitudes, at all times,
of political and military events, the extraordinary fluctuations,
which have been peculiarly characteristic of the still subsisting
contest in Europe, and the more extraordinary position of most
of the principal nations of that quarter of the globe, it can never
be wise to vary our measures of security with the continually
varying aspect of European affairs. A very obvious policy dic-
tates to us a strenuous endeavor, as far as may be practicable, to
place our safety out of the reach of the casualties, which may be-
fall the contending parties, and the powers more immediately
within their vortex. The way to effect this is to pursue a
steady system, to organize all our resources, and put them in a
state of preparation for prompt action. Eegarding the over-

158 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 41.

throw of Europe at large as a matter not entirely chimerical, it
will be our prudence to cultivate a spirit of self-dependence, and
to endeavor by unanimity, vigilance, and exertion, under the
blessing of Providence, to hold the scales of our destiny in our
own hands. Standing as it were in the midst of falling empires,
it should be our aim to assume a station and attitude, which will
preserve us from being overwhelmed in their ruins.

It has been very properly the policy of our government to
cultivate peace. But, in contemplating the possibility of our
being driven to unqualified war, it will be wise to anticipate,
that frequently the most effectual way to defend is to attack.
There may be imagined instances of very great moment to the
permanent interests of this country, which would certainly re-
quire a disciplined force. To raise and prepare such a force will
always be a work of considerable time, and it ought to be ready
for the conjuncture whenever it shall arrive. Not to be ready,
then, may be to lose an opportunity, which it may be difficult
afterwards to retrieve.

While a comprehensive view of external circumstances is be-
lieved to recommend perseverance in the precautions, which
have been taken for the safety of the country, nothing has come
to my knowledge in our interior situation, which leads to a dif-
ferent conclusion. The principal inquiry in this respect concerns
the finances. The exhibition of their state from the department
of the Treasury, which you have transmitted, as I understand it,
opposes no obstacle ; nor have I been apprized, that any doubt
is entertained by the officer, who presides in that department, of
the sufficiency of our pecuniary resources. But on this point
I cannot be expected to assume the responsibility of a positive
opinion. It is the province of the Secretary of the Treasury to
pronounce definitively, whether any insuperable impediment
arises from this source.

The sound conclusion, viewing the subject in every light, is
conceived to be, that no avoidable delay ought to be incurred in
appointing the whole of the officers, and raising the whole of the
men, provided for by the act which has been cited. If imme-
diately entered upon, and pursued with the utmost activity, it

Mt.41.] military papers. 159

cannot be relied upon, that the troops will be raised and disci-
plined in less than a year. What may not another year produce ?
Happy will it be for us, if we have so much time for preparation,
and ill-judged, indeed, if we do not make the most of it! The
adequateness of the force to be raised, in relation to a serious in-
vasion, is foreign to the present examination. But it is certain,
that even a force of this extent, well instructed and well disci-
plined, would in such an event be of great utility and importance.
Besides the direct effects of its own exertions, the militia rallying
to it would derive, from its example and countenance, additional
courage and perseverance. It would give a consistency and sta-
bility to our first efforts, of which they would otherwise be des-
titute ; and would tend powerfully to prevent great, though per-
haps partial calamities.

The Senate being in session, the ofiicers to be appointed must
of course be nominated to that body.

The pay of all who shall be appointed ought immediately to
commence. They ought all to be employed, without delay, in
different ways in the recruiting service ; but, were it otherwise,
there ought to be no suspension of their pay. The law annexes
it as a matter of right. The attempt to apply a restriction by
executive discretion might be dissatisfactory ; and justice to the
public does not seem to require it, because the acceptance of an
ofl&ce, which makes the person liable at pleasure to be called into
actual service, will commonly from the moment of that accept-
ance interfere with any previous occupation, on which he may
have depended. This observation cannot be applicable to my-
self, because I have taken a peculiar and distinct ground, to
which it is my intention to adhere.

On the subject of your sixth question, the opinion is, that,
under existing circumstances, it is not advisable to withdraw any
of the troops from the quarter of the country, which you men-
tion, towards the Atlantic frontier. But the disposition in those
quarters probably requires careful revision. It is not impossible,
that it will be found to admit of alterations favorable both to
economy and to the military objects to be attained. The local
knowledge of General Wilkinson would be so useful in an inves-

160 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 41.

tigation of this sort, that it is deemed very important to direct
him forthwith to repair to Philadelphia. If this be impracticable
by land, he may, it is presumed, come by way of New Orleans.
It is observed, that in his late communications with the Governor
he has taken pains to obviate jealousy of the views of the United
States. This was prudent, and he ought to be encouraged to
continue the policy. It will also be useful to employ a judicious
engineer to survey our posts on the Lakes, in order that it may
be ascertained, in the various relations of trade and defence,
what beneficial changes, if any, can be made. In this examina-
tion Presque Isle and the southwestern extremity of Lake Erie
will demand particular attention.

The reply to your seventh question is, that the companies
directed to be added to the regiments of the old establishments
ought, as soon as convenient, to reinforce the western army. It
is probable, that, in the progress of events, they will not be less
useful there than on the seaboard. Their destination in the first
instance may be Pittsburg.

The following disposition of the artillery (the subject of your
eighth question) is recommended. The two regiments by their
establishment consist of twenty-eight companies. Of these nearly
a battalion, in point of number, forms part of the western army.
A complete battalion there will sufiice. Let there be assigned to
the fortifications at Boston one company, to those at New- York
two, to those at Newport two companies, to those at West Point
one, to those at Mud Island two, to those at Baltimore one, to
those at Norfolk two, to those on Cape Fear river one, to those
at Charleston two, to those at Savannah one, to those at the
mouth of the St. Mary's one. The remaining two battalions had
best be reserved for the army in the field. During the winter
they may retain the stations they now occupy. But, as soon as
they can conveniently go into tents, it will be advisable to assem-
ble them at some central or nearly central point, there to be put
in a course of regular instruction, together with successive de-
tachments of the ofiicers and non-commissioned officers of the
seaboard garrisons, until their services shall be actually required.
The field-officers of course will be distributed proportionally,

JEt.41.] military PAPERS. 161

assigning to each tlie superintendence of a certain number of
companies, and, as to those in garrison, of the posts at which they
are stationed.

The permanent distribution of the troops, after they shall
have been raised, which is understood to be an object of your
ninth question, Avill probably be influenced by circumstances
yet to be unfolded, and will best be referred to future con-
sideration.

An arrangement for the recruiting service is the point of
primary urgency. For this purpose each State should be divided
into as many districts, as there are companies to be raised in it,
and to every company a particular district should be allotted,
with one place of rendezvous in it, to which the recruits should
be brought as fast as they are engaged. A certain number of
these company districts, whenever it can be done, should be
placed under the supervision of a field-ofiicer. During the win-
ter, in most of the States, it would be inconvenient to assemble
in larger corps than companies. Great cities are to be avoided.
The collection of troops there may lead to disorders, and expose,
more than elsewhere, the morals and principles of the soldiery.
But though it might now be premature to fix a permanent dis-
position of the troops, it may not be unuseful to indicate certain
stations, where they may be assembled provisionally, and may
probably be sufiered to continue while matters remain in their
present posture. The stations eligible in this view may be found
for two regiments in the vicinity of Providence river, somewhere .
near Uxbridge ; for two other regiments, in the vicinity of
Brunswick, in New Jersey; for two other regiments, in the
vicinity of the Potomac, near Harper's Ferry ; for two other
regiments, in the vicinity of Augusta, but above the falls of the
Savannah. This disposition will unite considerations relative to
the discipline and health of the troops, and to the economical
supply of their wants by water. It will also have some military
aspects, in the first instance, towards the security of Boston and
Newport ; in the second, towards that of New- York and Phila-
delphia ; in the third and fourth, towards that of Baltimore,
Charleston, Savannah, and the southern States generall}^ ; and,

E 11

162 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 41.

in the third, pa^'ticularly towards the reinforcement of the west-
ern army in certain events. But the military motives have only
a qualified influence; since it is i:ut d< ubted, that, in the pros-
pect of a serious attack upon this country, the disposition of
the army ought to look emphatically to the southern region,
as that which is by far the most likely to be the scene of
action.

As to your tenth question, the opinion is, that the govern-
ment itself ought to provide the rations. The plan of furnishing
money to the recruits, as a substitute for this, is likely to be at-
tended with several inconveniences. It will give them a pre-
tence for absence injurious to discipline and order, and facilita-
ting marauding and desertion. Many of the soldiery will be
disposed to lay out too much of their money in ardent spirit',
and too little in provisions, which, besides occasioning them to
be ill, will lead to habits of intemperance.

The subject of your eleventh question is peculiarly important
The two modes have severally their advantages and disad-
vantages. That of purchases by agents of the government is
liable to much mismanagement and abuse, sometimes from want
of skill, but much oftener from infidelity. It is too frequently
deficient in economy; but it is preferable, as it regards the
quality of the articles to be supplied, the satisfaction of the
troops, and the certainty of the supply, which last is a point of
the utmost consequence to the success of any military operation.
• The mode by contract is sometimes found more economical;
but, as the calculations of contractors have reference primarily
to their own profit, they are apt to endeavor to impose on the
troops articles of inferior quality. The troops, suspecting this,
are apt to be dissatisfied even when there is no adequate cause,
and when defects may admit of reasonable excuse. In the at-
tention to cheapness of price, and other savings of expense, it
from time to time happens, that the supplies are not laid in as
early as the service requires, or not in sufficient quantity, or are
not conveyed with due celerity to the points where they are
wanted. Circumstances like these tend to embarrass and even
to defeat the best concerted military plans ; which, in this mode,

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 163

depend for their execution too mucli upon the combinations of in-
dividual avarice. It also occasionally happens, that the public,
from the failures of the contractors, is under the necessity of in-
terposing with sudden and extraordinary efforts to obviate the
mischiefs and disappointments of those failures, producing, in
addition to other evils, an accumulation of expense, which
the fortunes of the delinquent contractors are insufficient to
indemnify.

The union of the two modes will probably be found safest
and best. Prudence always requires, that magazines shall be
formed beforehand at stations relative to the probable or ex-
pected scene of action. These magazines may be laid in by con-
tract, and the transportation of the supplies from the magazines,
and the issuing of them to the army, may be the business of the
military agents, who must be likewise authorized and enabled to
provide for the deficiencies of the contractors, and for whatever
may not be comprehended in the contracts. This plan will to a'
great extent admit the competition of private interest to furnisk,
the supplies at the cheapest rate. By narrowing the sphere of
action of the public agents, it will proportionably diminish the
opportunities of abuse, and it will unite, as far as is attainable,,
economy with the efiiciency of military operations.

But, to obtain the full advantages of this plan, it is essential,,
that there shall be a man attached to the army, of distinguished'
capacity and integrity, to be charged with the superintendence-
of the department of supplies. To procure such a man, as mili-
tary honor can form no part of his reward, ample pecuniary
compensation must be given; and he must be intrusted with;
large authority for the appointment of subordinate agents, ac-
companied with a correspondent responsibility. Proceeding on^
this ground, there would be a moral certainty of immense
savings to the public in the business of supplies ; savings, the
magnitude of which will be easily understood by any man,,
who can estimate the vast difference in the results of extensive
money transactions between a management at once skilful and.
faithful, and that which is either unskilful or unfaithful.

This suggestion contemplates, as a part of the plan, that the

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 41.

procuring of supplies of every kind, which, in our past experi-
ence has been divided between two departments, of quarter-
master and commissary, shall be united under one head. This
unity will tend to harmony, system, and vigor. It will avoid
the discordant influence of civil with military functions. The
quartermaster-general, in this case, instead of being a purveyor
as formerly, will, besides the duties purely military of his sta-
tion, be confined to the province of calling for the requisite sup-
plies, and of seeing that they are duly furnished ; in which he
may be rendering a very useful check upon the purveyor.

The extent of your twelfth question has been matter of some
doubt. But no inconvenience can ensue from answering it with
greater latitude than may have been intended. It is conceived,
that the strongest considerations of national policy and safety re-
quire, that we should be as fast as possible provided with arsenals
and magazines of artillery, small arms, and the principal articles
of military stores and camp equipage, equal to such a force as
may be deemed sufficient to resist with effect the most serious in-
vasion of the most powerful European nation. This precaution,
which prudence would at all times recommend, is peculiarly
indicated by the existing crisis of Europe. The nature of the
case does not furnish any absolute standard of the requisite force.
It must be more or less a matter of judgment. The opinion is,
that the calculation ought to be on the basis of fifty thousand
men ; that is, forty thousand infantry of the line, two thousand
riflemen, four thousand horse, and four thousand artillerymen.
And, with regard to such articles, as are expended by the use,
not less than a full year's supply ought to be ready. This will
allow due time from internal and external sources to continue
the supply, in proportion to the exigencies which shall occur.
As to clothing, since we may always on a sudden emergency
find a considerable supply in our markets, and the articles are
more perishable, the quantity in deposit may be much less than
of other articles ; but it ought not under present circumstances to
be less than a year's supply for half the above mentioned force,
especially of the woollen articles.

I proceed to the last of your questions, that which respects

Mr. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 165

the stations for magazines. It is conceived that three principal
permanent stations will suffice, and that these ought to be Spring-
field and Harper's Ferry, which are already chosen, and the
vicinity of Eocky Mount, on the Wateree, in South Carolina.
These stations are in a great measure central to three great sub-
divisions of the United States ; they are so interior as to be en-
tirely safe, and yet on navigable waters, which empty into the
ocean and facilitate a water conveyance to every point on our
sea-coast. They are also in well-settled and healthy districts of
country. That near Harper's Ferry, it is well known, possesses
extraordinary advantages for founderies and other manufac-
tories of iron. It is expected, that a canal will ere long effect
a good navigation between the Wateree and the Catawba, which,
whenever it shall happen, will render the vicinity of Rocky
Mount extremely convenient to the supply of North Carolina by
inland navigation. Pittsburg, West Point in New-York, the
■neighborhood of Trenton in New Jersey, and Fayetteville in
North Carolina, may properly be selected as places of particular
and occasional deposit. Large cities are as much as possible to
be avoided.

The foregoing comprises, it is believed, a full answer to the
questions you have stated. I shall in another letter offer to
your consideration some further matters, which have occurred,
and are deemed to be of importance to our military service.
With respect and esteem, I have the honor to be. Sir, &c.

WASHINGTON TO MCHENRY.

Draft by Hamilton.

Philadelphia, December 13tli, 1798.

Sir:

I shall now present to your view the additional objects al-
luded to in my letter of this date.

166 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 41.

A proper organization for the troops of the United States is
a principal one. In proportion as the policy of the country is
adverse to extensive military establishments, ought to be our
care to render the principles of our military system as perfect as
possible, and our endeavors to turn to the best account such
force as we may at any time have on foot, and to provide an
eligible standard for the augmentations to which particular
emergencies may compel a resort.

The organization of our military force will, it is conceived,
be much improved by modelling it on the following plan :

Let a regiment of infantry, composed as at present of two
battalions, and each battalion of five companies, consist of these
officers and men, namely, one colonel ; two majors, a first and
second ; one adjutant, one quartermaster, and one paymaster,
each of whom shall be a lieutenant ; one surgeon and one sur-
geon's mate ; ten captains ; ten first and ten second lieutenants,
besides the three lieutenants above mentioned ; two cadets, with
the pay and emoluments of sergeants; two sergeant-majors;
two quartermaster-sergeants ; two chief musicians, first and
second, and twenty other musicians ; forty sergeants ; forty cor-
porals ; and nine hundred and twenty privates.

Let a regiment of dragoons consist of ten troops, making five
squadrons, and, of these, officers and men, namely, one colonel ;
two majors, a first and second; one adjutant, one quartermaster,
and one j^aymaster, each of whom shall be a lieutenant; one
surgeon and one surgeon's mate ; ten captains ; ten first and ten
second lieutenants, besides the three lieutenants above men-
tioned ; five cadets, with the pay and emoluments of sergeants ;
two sergeant-majors ; two quartermaster-sergeants ; two chief
musicians, first and second, and ten other musicians ; forty ser-
geants ; forty corporals ; and nine hundred and twenty privates ;
the privates including, to each troop, one saddler, one black-
smith, and one boot-maker.

Let a regiment of artillery consist of four battalions, each
battalion of four companies, and, of these, officers and men,
namely, one colonel ; four majors ; one adjutant, one quarter-
master, and one paymaster, each of whom shall be a lieuten-

iEx. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS.

16Y

ant; one surgeon and two surgeon's mates; sixteen captains;
sixteen first and sixteen second lieutenants, besides the three
lieutenants above mentioned; thirty-two cadets, with the pay
and emoluments of sergeants ; four sergeant majors ; four quar-
termaster-sergeants; sixty-four sergeants; sixty -four corporals;
one chief musician and ten other musicians; eight hundred
and ninety-six privates, including, to each company, eight
artificers.

The principal reasons for this organization will be briefly
suggested.

It will be observed, that the proportion of men to officers in
the infantry and cavalry is considerably greater than by the
present establishment. This presents, in the first place, the ad-
vantage of economy. By the proportional decrease of the
officers, savings will result in their pay, subsistence, and the
transportation of their baggage. The last circumstance, by les-
sening the impediments of an army, is also favorable to the
celerity of its movements.

The command of each officer will become more respectable.
This will be an inducement to respectable men to accept mili-
tary appointments, and it will be an incentive to exertion
among those, who shall be engaged, by upholding that justi-
fiable pride, which is a necessary ingredient in the military
spirit.

A company will then admit of an eligible subdivision into
platoons, sections, and demi-sections, each of a proper front.
Each battalion will then be of the size judged proper for a ma-
nojuvring column in the field, and it is that portion of an army,
which, in the most approved system of tactics, is destined to ful-
fil this object. A battalion ought neither to be too unwieldy for
rapid movements, nor so small as to multiply too much the sub-
divisions, and render each incapable either of a vigorous impulse
or resistance-

The proportion of officers to men ought not to be greater
than is adequate to the due management and command of them.
A careful examination of this point will satisfy every judge, that
the number now proposed will be equal to both. This conclusion

168 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 41.

will be assisted bj tlie idea, that our fundamental order, in con-
formity with, that of the nations of Europe generally, ought to
place our infantry in three ranks, to oppose to an enemy, who
shall be in the same order, an equal mass for attack or defence.

These remarks explain summarily the chief reasons for the
most material of the alterations suggested.

But it is not the intention to recommend a present augmenta-
tion of the number of rank and file to the proposed standard.
It is only wished, that it may be adopted as that of the war es-
tablishment. The regiments, which have been authorized, may
continue in this respect upon the footing already prescribed ;
leaving the actual augmentation to depend on events, which
may create a necessity for the increase of our force. The other
alterations recommended have relation rather to systematic pro-
priety, than to very important military ends.

The term lieutenant-colonel^ in our present establishment, has
a relative signification, without any thing in fact to which it re-
lates. It was introduced during our revolutionary war, to facili-
tate exchanges of prisoners ; as our then enemy united the
grade of colonel with that of general. But the permanent form
of our military system ought to be regulated by principle, not
by the changeable and arbitrary arrangement of a particular
nation. The title of colonel, which has greater respectability, is
more proper for the commander of a regiment, because it does
not, like the other, imply a relation having no existence.

The term ensign is changed into that of lieutenant, as well be-
cause the latter from usage has additional respectability, offering
an inducement to desirable candidates, as because the former, in
its origin, signified a standard-bearer, and supposed that each
company had a distinct standard. This, in practice, has ceased
to be the case, and for a variety of good reasons a stand of colors
to each battalion of infantry is deemed sufficient. This stand-
ard is intended to be confided to a cadet, in whom it may be
expected to excite emulation and exertion. The multiplica-
tion of grades, inconvenient with regard to exchanges, is thus
avoided.

In the cavalry it is proper to allow a standard to each

^T. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 169

squadron, and hence it is proposed to have five cadets to a
regiment.

The nature of the artillery service, constantly in detachment,
renders it proper to compose a regiment of a greater number of
battalions than the other corps. This our present establishment
has recognized. But there is now want of uniformity, which
leads to disorderly consequences ; one regiment being composed
of four battalions, the other of three. The same organization
ought to be common to all.

The diminution of the number of musicians, while it will
save expense, is also warranted by the pecuhar nature of the
artillery service. They answer in this corps few of the purposes
which they fulfil in the infantry.

The existing laws contemplate, and with good reason, that
the aids-de-camp of general ofiicers, except the commander-in-
chief and the ofiicers in the department of inspection, shall be
taken from the regiment. But they do not provide, that, when
so taken, their places shall be supplied by others. It is con-
ceived that this ought to be the case. The principles of the
establishment suppose, for example, that three ofiicers to a com-
pany of a given number are the just and due proportion. If,
when an ofl&cer be taken from a company to fill one of the sta-
tions alluded to, his place be not filled by another, so that the
number of ofiicers to a company may remain the same, it must
follow that the company will be deficient in ofiicers. It is true,
that the number of a company is continually diminishing, but it
diminishes in ofiicers as well as men ; and it is not known that
the proportion is varied. Practice in every institution ought to
conform to principle, or there will result more or less of disorder.
An army is in many respects a machine ; of which the displace-
ment of any of the organs, if permitted to continue, injures its
symmetry and energy, and leads to disorder and weakness.
The increase of the number of rank and file, while it strengthens
the reasons for replacing the ofiicers, who may be removed, will
more than compensate in point of economy for the addition of
ofi&cers by the substitution. This may be reduced to the test of "
calculation. But, though the place of an officer in his regiment

ITO HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 41.

ought to be supplied upon any sucli removal, he ought not to
lose his station in the regiment, but ought to rank and rise as if
he had continued to serve in it.

The provision, that the aids-de-camp and the officers of in-
spection shall be drawn from the line of the army, is not re-
stricted as to grade. There ought to be such a restriction. The
aids of major-generals ought not to be taken from a rank supe-
rior to that of captain, nor those of brigadiers from a rank su-
perior to that of first lieutenant. The inspectors ought in like
manner to be limited, those of brigadiers to the rank of captain,
those of divisions to that of major. This will guard against
the multiphcation of superior grades by removals to fill such
stations.

The judicious establishment of general rules of promotion,
Hable to exceptions in favor of extraordinary service or merit, is
a point of the greatest consequence. It is conceived, that these
rules are the most convenient that can be devised ; namely, that
all officers shall rise in the regiments to which they respectively
belong up to the rank of major inclusively ; that afterwards they
shall rise in the line of the army at large, with the limitation,
however, that the officers of artillery, cavalry, and infantry shall
be confined to their respective corps until they shall attain the
rank of colonel.

It is very material to the due course of military service, that
the several classes of an army shall be distinguished from each
other by certain known badges, and that there shall be uni-
formity in dress and equipment subject to these distinctions.
The dress itself will indeed constitute a part of them. It is of
inferior moment, what they shall be, provided they are conspicu-
ous, economical, and not inconsistent with good appearance,
which in an army is far from being a matter of indifference.
The following uniforms and badges are recommended ; but, if
any of them are supposed liable to exception, they may be
changed at pleasure.

The uniform of the commander-in-chief to be a blue coat,
'with yellow buttons and gold epaulets (each having three silver
stars), with linings, cape, and cufis of bufii" ; in winter, buff vest

iET. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. ' iTl

and breeches ; in summer, a white vest, and breeches of nankeen.
The coat to be without lapels, and embroidered on the cape,
cuffs, and pockets. A white plume in the hat to be a farther
distinction. The adjutant-general, the aids, and secretaries of the
commander-in-chief to be likewise distinguished by a white plume.

The uniform of the other general officers to be a blue coat
with yellow buttons, gold epaulets, the lining and facings of
buff"; the under clothes the same as those of the commander-in-
chief. The major-generals to be distinguished by two silver
stars on each epaulet, and, except the inspector-general, by a
black and white plume, the black below. The brigadiers to be
distinguished by one silver star on each epaulet, and by a red
and white plume, the red below. The aids of all general
officers, who are taken from regiments, and the officers of inspec-
tion, to wear the uniforms of the regiments from which they are
taken. The aids to be severally distinguished by the like
plumes, which are worn by the general officers to whom they
are respectively attached.

The uniform of the aids and secretaries of the commander-in-
chief, when not taken from regiments, to be a blue coat with
yellow buttons and gold epaulets, buff lining and facings ; the
same under clothes as the commander-in-chief.

The inspector-general, his aids, and the officers of the in-
spection generally, to be distinguished by a blue plume. The
quartermaster-general and other military officers in his depart-
ment to be distinguished by a gTeen plume.

The uniform of the infantry and artillery to be a blue coat,
with white buttons and red facings, white under clothes, and
cocked hats. The coats of the infantry to be lined with white ;
of the artillery, with red.

The uniform of the cavalry to be a green coat, with white
buttons, lining, and facings ; white vest and breeches ; with
helmet caps.

Each colonel to be distinguished by two epaulets, each
major by one epaulet on the right shoulder, and a strap on
the left. All the field-officers, except as above, and the regi-
mental staff, to wear red plumes.

172 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 41.

Captains to be distinguisliecl by an epaulet on the right
shoulder. Lieutenants by one on the left shoulder. Cadets by
a strap on the right shoulder. The epaulets and straps of the
regimental officers to be of silver.

Sergeant-majors and quartermaster-sergeants to be distin-
guished by two red. worsted epaulets. Sergeants by a like
epaulet on the right shoulder. The flank companies to be dis-
tinguished by red wings on the shoulders.

The coats of the musicians to be of the color of the facings of
the corps to which they severally belong. The chief musicians
to wear two white worsted epaulets.

All the civil staff of the army to wear plain blue coats, with
yellow buttons and white under clothes. No gold or silver lace,
except in the epaulets and straps, to be worn.

The commissioned officers and cadets to wear swords.

All persons belonging to the army to wear a black cockade,
with a small white eagle in the centre. The cockade of the non-
commissioned officers, musicians, and privates, to be of leather,
with eagles of tin.

The regiments to be distinguished from each other numeri-
cally. The number of each regiment to be expressed on the
buttons.

It cannot fail to happen, that clothing made at a distance
from the army will in numerous instances be ill fitted to the
persons to whom it is issued. This is an inconvenience, as it re-
spects appearance, comfort, and use. It merits consideration,
whether it may not be remedied by making provision by law for
the necessary alterations at the cost of the soldiery. As there
are always to be found tailors in an army, the alterations may be
made there during seasons of inactivity ; and moderate compen-
sations may be established, to be deducted out of the pay. The
tailors, when so employed, being exempted from military duty,
will be satisfied with very small allowances ; and the soldiers will
probably prefer this expense to the inconvenience of wearing
clothes which do not fit them.

On this subject of clothing, it is remarked with regret, that
the returns which have been received, exhibit none on hand ;

^T.41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 173

tliousli from verbal communications it is understood, that meas-
ures are in train for obtaining a present supply. It is desirable
that some more effectual plan, than has hitherto been pursued,
should be adopted to procure regular and sufficient supplies on
reasonable terms. While we depend on foreigners, will it not
be advisable to import the materials rather than take the chance
of markets ? And will it not be expedient, with a view to
economy, to have the clothing made up in the countries from
which it may be brought ? The matter certainly deserves seri-
ous attention. Our supply in the mode hitherto practised is not
only very precarious, but must doubtless be obtained at a very
dear rate.

Another point, no less deserving of particular attention, is
the composition of the ration of provisions. It was in the last
session augmented beyond all former example. It is not recol-
lected, that the ration, which was allowed during the war with
Great Britain, was found insafiicient by troops once formed to
military habits, and acquainted with the best methods of manag-
ing their provisions. The present ration, estimating by price, is
understood to be greater than the ration in that war by at least
forty per cent. This is evidently a very important augmenta-
tion. Various disadvantages attend it ; a great increase of ex-
pense ; additional diflSiculty in furnishing under all circumstances
the stipulated allowance, consequently a multiplication of the
possible causes of discontent, murmur, and perhaps even mu-
tiny ; the necessity of a greater number of wagons for transporta-
tion, and of course the extension of this always serious source of
embarrassment to military operations.

The quantity of spirituous liquors, which is a component
part of the ration, is so large as to endanger, where they might
not before exist, habits of intemperance, alike fatal to health and
discipline. Experience has repeatedly shown, that many sol-
diers will exchange their rum for other articles ; which is pro-
ductive of the double mischief of subjecting those, with whom
the exchange is made, to the loss of what is far more necessary,
and to all the consequences of brutal intoxication. The step
having been once taken, a change is delicate ; but it is believed

174 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

to be indispensable, and that the temporary evils of a change
can bear no proportion to the permanent and immense evils of a
continuance of the error.

it may not perhaps be advisable to bring back the ration to
the standard of the late war, but to modify it in some respects
differently, so as not materially to affect the aggregate expense.
It may consist of eighteen ounces of bread or flour, one pound
and a quarter of fresh beef, or one pound of salted beef, or three
quarters of a pound of salted pork; salt, when fresh meat is
issued, at the rate of one quart, and candles at the rate of a
pound, for every hundred rations. With regard to liquor, it may
be best to exckide it from bein a component part of the ration ;
allowing a discretion to commanding officers to cause it to be is-
sued in quantities not exceeding half a gill per day, except
on extraordinary occasions. Vinegar also ought to be furnished,
when to be had, at the rate of two quarts, and soap at the rate of
two pounds, per hundred rations.

There are often difficulties in furnishing articles of this des-
cription, and the equivalent in money is frequently pernicious,
rather than beneficial. Where there is a contract, the promise of
such articles is apt to prove more beneficial to the contractor than
to any other person. He commonly so manages it, that the sub-
stitute is not a real equivalent. But it need not be observed, that
whatever is to be done in this respect must be so conducted, as
not to infract the conditions on which the troops now in service
were enlisted.

It is deeply to be lamented, that a very precious period of
leisure was not improved towards forming among ourselves en-
gineers and artillerists ; and that, owing to this neglect, we are
in danger of being overtaken by war, without competent charac-
ters of these descriptions. To form them suddenly is impossible.
Much previous study and experiment are essential. If possible
to avoid it, a war ought not to find us wholly unprovided. It is
conceived to be advisable to endeavor to introduce from abroad
at least one distinguished engineer, and one distinguished officer
of artillery. They may be sought for preferably in the Austrian,
and next in the Prussian armies. The grade of colonel, with ade-

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 175

quate pecuniary compensation, may attract officers of a rank in-
ferior to that grade in those armies, who will be of distinguished
ability and merit. But in this, as we know from past experience,
nothing is more easy than to be imposed upon, nothing more dif-
ficult than to avoid imposition, and that therefore it is requisite to
commit the business of procuring such characters to some very
judicious hand, under every caution that can put him upon his
guard.

If there shall be occasion for the actual employment of mili-
tary force, a corps of riflemen will be for several jDurposes ex-
tremely useful. The eligible proportion of riflemen to infantry
of the line may be taken at a twentieth. Hence in the apportion-
ment of an army of fifty thousand men, in my letter of this date,
two thousand riflemen are included, and, in the estimate of arms
to be provided, two thousand rifles. There is a kind of rifle com-
monly called Fergusoii's, which will deserve particular attention.
It is understood that it has in different European armies sup-
planted the old rifle, as being more quickly loaded and more
easily kept clean. If the shot of it be equally sure, or nearly so,
those advantages entitle it to a preference. It is very desirable,
that this point, and its comparative merit in other respects, be
ascertained by careful examination and experiment.

Perhaps generally, but more certainly when the troops shall
serve in southern climates, flannel shirts will be most conducive
to health. Will it not be advisable to make provision for retain-
ing a discretion in such cases ; either to allow a less number of
flannel shirts equivalent to the present allowance of linen, or, if
this cannot be, to furnish the soldiery with the requisite number,
deducting the difference of cost out of their pay ?

The only provision for the appointment of i quartermaster-
general is to be found in the act of the 28th of May, authorizing
the President to raise a provisional army, which limits his rank
and emoluments to those of lieutenant-colonel. This provision is
conceived to be entirely inadequate. The military duties of the
office are of a nature to render it of the first importance in an
army ; demanding great abilities and a character every way
worthy of trust. Accordingly it is the general practice, founded

176 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

upon very substantial reasons, to confide it to an otlficer of high
military rank. The probability is, that, without a similar
arrangement on our part, we shall not be able to command a fit
character ; and in taking one of inferior pretensions we shall sub-
ject the service to disadvantages, out of all proportion to any
objections which may be supposed to militate against the confer-
ring of such rank. It is feared, that an appointment under the
existing provision would only create embarrassment, should
there be real necessity for military exertions ; and that the alter-
native must be either to leave the army destitute of so necessary
an organ, or to give it one likely in the progress of things to
prove unequal to the task.

It was much desired, for preventing future controversy, to
fix in the first instance the relative grades of the regimental offi-
cers. That of the field officers has been rendered impossible,
without injustice and the hazard of much dissatisfaction, by the
impossibility of completing the arrangement in Connecticut and
the three most southern States. But, upon close examination,
many obstacles opposed a definitive establishment of the relative
rank, even of the officers of companies, in the regiments which
have been organized. Numerous circumstances, which ought to
influence the decision, are unknown ; and without this know-
ledge a final arrangement might lead to very awkward and per-
plexing results. In consideration of this difficulty, no more than
a temporary one, liable to future revision, has been adopted. It
will be necessary to attend to this in the appointments, and to
signify to the persons, that they are to obey according to the
order of nomination ; but that the President reserves to himself
the right, where cogent reasons for it shall appear, to change the
relative rank which that order may seem to recognize. He will
judge whether, in making the nomination to the Senate, a like
reserve is necessary.

I am well aware, that several of the matters suggested in this
letter will require legislative provision. If the whole or any of
them shall be approved by the Executive, no time ought to be
lost in recommending them to the consideration of Congress.
As to some of them, it is very desirable that the necessary pro-

Mt.u.] military papers. 177

vision by law should precede the enlistment of the men, to
avoid the obstacle to a change, which may result from con-
tract.

With great respect and esteem,

I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Answer to questions of the Secretary at War of November 10, 1798.

December, 1798.
No. 1. First and second questions. — The rule which appears
proper as a, primary one, is the relative population of the States
severally. In the application of this rule, the distribution made
by the Secretary, appears so far correct as to be deemed an eligi-
ble standard.

Improper to tie down the recruiting service by an absolute
apportionment of the men among the States,

The officers will naturally be assigned to recruit in the
States of which they are \ if the men can be found there they
will be had ; but it is possible they may not be obtainable, and
there ought to be liberty to obtain them elsewhere.

The troops of horse not to be confined to any division of the
United States ; but an exact distribution of so small a number
would be inconvenient. It is therefore deemed proper to let the
arrangement be governed principally by the characters who have
occurred as officers. It is proposed to assign to Virginia and
Maryland 3 troops ;. Pennsylvania 1 ; New Jersey 1 ; New-
York and Connecticut 1.

The number of horse inadequate. Presuming that an in-
crease will be found eligible, the distribution can be made with
an idea to the other States. Consideration has been had as a se-
condary motive to the fitness of character.

Third question. — The fact solves this question.
E 12

178 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 41.

Fourth question. — Provisions of law peremptory. Will not
examine bounds of executive discretion ; but it must be evident
tliat a suspension cannot be justified but by a very urgent mo
tive. None such are known to exist.

ISFotliing bas been communicated as to foreign relations, to in-
duce an opinion that the ground upon which the act for aug-
menting the army was passed has been changed. As far as can
be inferred from the Treasury documents communicated, no ob-
stacle is perceived to arise from financial considerations; but
this is a point on which it cannot be expected that the responsi-
bility of any definitive opinion will be assumed. The head of
the proper department will no doubt explicitly pronounce.

Fifth question. — The opinion is, that they ought all to be im-
mediately appointed, and immediately to receive their pay and
be put into activity. This is with the exception, from want of
adequate information, of the two Carolinas, Georgia, and Ten-
nessee.

It is conceived that it will be expedient to confide to General
Pinckney, with the aid of Generals Davie and Washington, to
prepare the arrangement for these States, subject to the ratifica-
tion of the President, but with as large a discretion to fix the
arrangement as propriety will permit.

Sixth question. — Inexpedient at present to withdraw the troops
in question, with a view to reinforce those on the seaboard.
But our whole plan on the northwestern and southwestern fron-
tier may require revision, and it is deemed eligible to require Ge-
neral Wilkinson to repair as soon as possible to the seat of the
government, in order that it may have the benefit of his local
knowledge and advice. He should be cautioned to avoid any
demonstrations of hostility towards the Spaniard ; but, on the
contrary, as far as may be, to assume a difl'erent complexion.

Seventh question. — It is conceived best that the additional
companies shall reinforce the western army.

Eighth question. — As to artillery. It is understood that the
two regiments comprise twenty-eight companies ; that of these,
eight are in the western country. The remaining companies may
•temporarily be thus disposed of: one to Boston, three to New-

JEt. 41.1

MILITARY PAPERS. 1T9

port, one to West Point, tliree to New- York, two to Fort Mifflin,
two to Baltimore, two to Norfolk, one to Cape Fear Kiver, three
to Charleston, one to Savannah, one to St. Marys.

It is desirable that entire companies be stationed, and the
mingling of different corps be avoided. The field ofl&cers will,
of course, be distributed proportionally.

Ninth question. — The permanent disposition of the troops
after they shall have been raised, may be influenced by circum-
stances yet to be developed. The first object of attention is the
distribution, with a view to the recruiting service. To this end,
each State should be divided into districts, equal to the number
of companies to be recruited therein. The men to be brought
to the company rendezvous as soon as may be after they are re-
cruited ; and a certain number of these rendezvous, where it can
conveniently be done, to be put under the superintendence of a
field officer. During the winter it would be inconvenient in
most of the States, to assemble in larger corps than companies.

Tenth question. — The public ought to provide the rations by
contract or otherwise, as it may be found best.

The giving money to the recruit would have many inconve-
niences, by giving pretext of absence to provide supply, unfa-
vorable to discipline, tending to disputes with the inhabitants,
and to desertion. Many of the men will apply their money to
strong drink, rather than to food.

Eleventh question. — Contracts for stationary posts are to be
preferred ; but for an army operating in the field, purchasing is
to be preferred, except that the magazines, which are to be
formed at particular places, may be best formed by contract.

Tivel/th (^i^es^wn.— Springfield, Harper's Ferry, Kocky Mount
on the Wateree.

180 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 41.

HAMILTON TO GUNN.

New- York, December 16th, 1798.

Deae Sir:

I regretted that my excessive avocations did not permit me, as
I intended, to call upon you before I left Philadelphia. In ad-
dition to the pleasure of doing it, I was desirous of knowing the
state of your mind with regard to military service. It was not
that there was any thing worth your acceptance, upon the dis-
posal of which at the time I could have had any influence ; but I
wished to understand what would be agreeable to you, with a
view to the progress of affairs. If we are to be seriously engaged
in military operations, 'tis not a compliment to you to say that
you are one of those men who must be in the field. With such
an enemy, we shall want men who will not harely do their duty^
but will do it with an energy equal to all dangers.
With very great regard, &c.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New- York, December 16, 1708,

Dear Sir:

I regretted that I was detained to the last moment of being
in time for the stage in which my baggage had been previously
sent, and thereby prevented from calling upon you before my
final departure from Philadelphia.

If the recruiting service is to be confided to me, I ought as
soon as possible to be definitely apprised of it, and in the mean
time I shall be glad to have the instructions heretofore prepared
for that purpose, that I may endeavor to obtain, for your final
decision, new lights from of&cers who have had experience in
this branch of the service. My own was very limited, and it is
of great importance to proceed upon a right plan.

^T. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 181

You recollect that, shortlj after my first appointment, I was
desired to turn my attention to a system of regulations for the
tactics and discipline of the army. From that moment I have
devoted much of my time to the preliminary investigations, and
I shall devote a much larger proportion, if I am to consider my-
self as now in service, and entitled to the emoluments of the sta-
tion ; for, to be frank with you, it is utterly out of my power to
apply my time to the public service without the compensations,
scanty enough, which the law annexes to the of&ce. If I were
to receive them from the day of the appointment, I should be at
least a thousand pounds the worse for my acceptance. From the
time that it was fully known that I had re-engaged in military
life, the uncertainty of my being able to render services for which
I might be retained drove away more than one-half of my pro-
fessional practice, which I may moderately estimate at four thou-
sand pounds a year. My pecuniary sacrifices already to the
public ought to produce the reverse of a disposition every where
to compel me to greater than the law imposes. This remark, I
am well aware, is not necessary for you personally.

Again, if I am to discharge with effect the duties of my
present ofiice, I must make frequent journeys from one part of
the army to another. Every body knows that the expenses of
such journeys would quickly eat out the narrow allowances of a
Major-General.

It will be disagreeable to be exposed to the dilemma of com-
promijing my reputation and that of the government by not
producing the results to be expected from the department, or of
ruining myself once more in performing services for which there
is no adequate compensation.

The precedent of the last war is a full comment on the pro-
priety of an extra allowance to the Inspector-General. It is in-
deed indispensable, if he is to be useful.

It is always disagreeable to speak of compensations for one's
I self, but a man past forty, with a wife and six children, and a
i very small property beforehand, is compelled to waive the scru-
ples which his nicety would otherwise dictate.

With great esteem and regard, I remain, &c.

182 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

P. S. I imagine it may be of service to communicate to Wbl-
cott the two letters received from the Commander-in-Chief con-
taing the results of our deliberation.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY,
(private.)

New-York, Dec. 19th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

You are informed that Mr. Hill is in possession of drafts of
surveys made during our last war, of our harbor and bay. It is
very interesting that the government should acquire these drafts.
You will, I presume, think that they ought to be deposited in
your department, as an item in the general mass of information
necessary towards plans of general defence. If so, you will pur-
chase them, if it be not already done, and in this case, I will
thank you for the immediate loan of them ; having been charged
by the Governor of this State, under the sanction of the Presi-
dent, with preparing a plan for the fortification of our port,
which plan, when digested, Avill be sent to you. Should you
decline the purchase, be so good as to say so to General M'Pher-
son, who will be requested to procure the drafts for the use of
this State.

GENERAL GUNN TO HAMILTON.

December 19th, 17£

Dear Sir:

I have received your very friendly and obliging favor of the
17th instant. I was very solicitous to converse with you on the
subject of our military establishment. But it appears to me that
during your stay in this city, your whole time was occupied with

^T. 41.] MILITARY PAPERS. 183

public business, and I was unwilling to interrupt you ; the only
moment I had the pleasure of your conversation, I certainly un-
derstood it to be your intention to return to this city in the
course of a very few weeks. Indeed, it appears to me indis-
pensable.

You are not accustomed to engage in objects of much mo-
ment without consideration ; and, sir, I am persuaded it can be no
part of your plan merely to execute the feeble arrangements of
other men. The President has no talent for war, and M'Henry
is an infant in detail; and, if I am correct. General "Washing-
ton is not to take the field, but in the event of the provi-
sional army being called into service. You are of course not
only charged with the command of the army, but in a great de-
gree, the direction of the AVar Department ; and, sir, you will
permit me to add, that the legislative aid necessary for the sup-
port of that department, must be arranged by yourself I there-
fore conclude that it is yet your intention to visit Philadelphia,
which precludes the necessity of my going into detail.

Trained up in the honorable pursuit of a military life, I
frankly confess my regard for you as a commander, and my pas-
sion for military service. But, my worthy sir, I have seen such
dishonorable means employed to wound the feelings of men of
unblemished integrity, and have witnessed so many efforts to
render the profession of arms disreputable, that I am disgusted
with every thing connected with public life. Situated in a coun-
try, in the event of war, which, most probably, will be the scene
of action, I have no wish or expectation that it will be my lot to
keep out of the field. But, sir, I am sincere when I assure you,
that it is my fixed determination not to be commanded by some
men now in commission. By this declaration, I wish it to be
understood that my objection does not extend beyond in

the provisional army, and ihe field officers in array. In

any event, I entreat you to believe that it will give me infinite
pleasure to do you all the service in my power.

Have the goodness to communicate your wishes with regard
to the invigoration of the measures of defence.

184 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

HAMILTON TO GUNN.

New-York, December 22, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

The post of yesterday brought me your favor of the 19th inst.
The sentiments in it personal to me are extremely gratifying,
and I am very glad to ascertain the military ground upon which
you are not unwilling to stand. If things progress, I trust there
will be no obstacle to your occupying it.

As to the further military arrangements, my ideas are these :
Considering how little has been done towards raising the force
already voted, that an important tax is yet in the first stage of
an essay, that a prospect of peace is again presented by the tem-
porizing conduct of France, that serious discontents exist in
parts of the country with regard to particular laws, it appears to
me advisable to postpone any actual augmentation of the army
beyond the provisions of the existing laws, except as to the regi-
ment of cavalry, which I should be glad to see increased by the
addition of two troops, and by the allowing it to be recruited to
the complement which has been proposed by the Commander-in-
Chief, as that of the war establishment. "What this is, will pro-
bably be communicated by the Secretary at War.

But a considerable addition ought certainly of be made to
our military supplies. The communications of the Commander-
in-Chief will also afford a standard for the increase in this respect,
as far as concerns the force to be employed in the field. There
are, however, some other objects of supply equally essential,
which were not within the view of those communications —
heavy cannon for our fortifications, and mortars for the case of
a siege. Of the former, including those already procured and
procuring, there ought not to be fewer than one thousand, from
eighteen to thirty-two pounders, chiefly of twenty -fours ; of the
latter, including those on hand, there ought to be fifty of ten-
inch calibre. This, you perceive, looks to offensive operations.
If we are to engage in Avar, our game will be to attack where we
can. France is not to be considered as separated from her ally.
Tempting objects will be within our grasp.

^T. 41.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 185

Will it not likewise be proper to renew and extend tlie idea
of a provisional army ? The force which, has been contemplated
as sufficient in any event, is 40,000 infantry of the line, 2,000
riflemen, 4,000 cavalry, and 4,000 artillery, making in the whole
an army of 50,000. Why should not the provisional army go to
the extent of the difference between that number and the actual
army ? I think this ought to be the case, and that the President
ought to be authorized immediately to nominate the officers, to
remain without pay until called into service. The arrangements
can then be made with sufficient leisure for the best possible
selection, and the persons designated will be employed in ac-
quiring instruction.

It will likewise deserve consideration, whether provision
ought not to be made for classing all persons from eighteen to
forty-five inclusively, and for draughting out of them, in cct.se of
invasion, by lot, the number necessary to complete the entire
army of fifty thousand. In the case of invasion, the expedient
of draughting must be resorted to, and it will greatly expedite
it if there be a previous classing with a view to such an event.
The measure, too, will place the country in a very imposing atti-
tude, and will add to the motives of caution on the part of our
enemies.

These measures are all that appear to be advisable with re-
gard to our military establishment under present appearances.
A loan as an auxiliary will of course be annexed.

HAMILTON TO M'PHERSON".

New-York, December 26, 1798.

Dear Sir :

A Captain Hill, formerly of the British service, now in Phil-
adelphia, is in possession of drafts of surveys, which were made
during our war, of the port and harbor of New-York. If the
Secretary at War, of whom you will please to inquire, has not

186 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

procured them for the United States, you will oblige me by pur-
chasing them for the use of this State. The money which you
may pay will be reimbursed upon notice of the amount. If se-
parable, I wish for those only from the Narrows downward to
the Hook. But if an entire draft, it must be purchased together.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, January 7, 1799.

Sir:

The unascertained situation in which I have been since my
acceptance of the military appointment I now hold, has been not
a little embarrassing to me. .1 had no sooner heard of the law
creating the oflEice, than I was told by members of Congress that
I was generally considered as the person designated by circum-
stances to fill that of&ce, and that the expectation of those who
most actively promoted the passing of the law was, that the
Inspector-General would be brought into immediate activity, par-
ticularly to superintend the raising and organizing of the troops.

This is mentioned as a mere item in the incidents which in-
fluenced my calculations and arrangements.

Very soon after, if not at the time, you communicated to me
my appointment, you intimated, though not officially, your de-
sire that I might occupy myself in preparing for the considera-
tion of the Executive a system of tactics and discipline ; and not
long after, you expressed to me your intention to commit to me
the supervision of the recruiting service.

In October I received your summons to attend at the seat of
government with the Commander-in-Chief. I obeyed, and de-
voted to the purposes of this summons about a month and a half.

I received, in due course, a letter from your department, stat-
ing the expectation of the President that the Generals would
think it proper to waive the emoluments of their stations till
called into service. In my reply I acquiesced.

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 187

But presuming that I would speedily be officially charged
with the execution of duties, which would draw along with them
the compensations attached by the law to the station, I have acted
on that presumption. I have discontinued my practice as attor-
ney and solicitor, from which I had derived a considerable part
of my professional profits ; and I have applied no small portion
of my time to preliminary investigations, in order to the collec-
tion of the best lights for forming a system of tactics and disci-
pline as perfect as exists any where else.

. The very circumstance of my having accepted a military ap-
pointment, from the moment it was known, withdrew from me a
large portion of my professional business. This, it will be per-
ceived, was a natural effect of the uncertainty of my being able
in the progress of suits to render the services for which I might
be engaged, at the customary previous expense to the parties.

The result has been, that the emoluments of my profession
have been diminished more than one half, and are still diminish-
ing, and I remain in perfect uncertainty whether or when I am
to derive from the scanty compensations of the office even a par-
tial retribution for so serious a loss.

Were I rich, I should be proud to be silent on such a subject.
I should acquiesce without an observation as long as any one
might think the minutest public interest required an accumula-
tion of sacrifices on my part. But after having to so advanced
a period of my hfe devoted all my prospects of fortune to the
service of the country, and dependent, as I am, for the mainte-
nance of a wife and six children on my professional exertions,
now so seriously abridged, it is essential for me to forego the
scruples of delicacy, and to ask of you to define my situation,
that I may determine whether to continue or to change my pre-
sent plan.

It will easily be imagined that I should not accept compen-
sations withheld from any other in a similar situation. If actual
employment is to be the criterion in any other instance, it must
be so in mine ; but then it is material to me to understand wheth-
er, in the contemplation of the Executive, I now am, or immedi-
ately am to be employed, or not. In the negative of this, my

188 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

honor will compel submission to the consequent sacrifice, so far
as it is unavoidable ; but mj arrangements will be different from
what they are at present, and will aim at making the sacrifice as
small as possible.

An early answer to this inquiry will particularly oblige me.
With great respect, &c.

M'HENRY TO HAMILTON".

9th January, 1799.

Dear Hamilton:

An ofiicial letter of this date fixes the commencement of
your pay and emoluments. I shall, as soon as possible, define
your duties and command. In the meanwhile I should be glad
to have your own ideas on the subject. You will proceed in
your report for a system of tactics and discipline. You will also
endeavor to ascertain the best positions for your recruiting par-
ties, and general rendezvous, &c., within the several grand sub-
divisions— and will not forget the bill conformably to my report.
Church's nomination is concurred in — several of the nominations
for inferior grades postponed by the Senate for further informa-
tion.

M^'HENEY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, 10th January, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you on the to request you to prepare conforma-

bly to the propositions contained in my report of the 24th of
December, ultimo, to the President. This morning. General
Gunn, of the Committee of the Senate, to whom this report has
been committed, waited upon me with a request from the Com-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 189

mittee, that I should prepare and furnisli them with a draught of
two bills, one comprising whatever in the report relates to new
provisions for the regular peace and war establishment, the other
all new matters appertaining to the provisional armj. He added,
if I thought it proper, I might comprehend in these bills all the
existing provisions relative to the provisional and regular army.
I think the idea judicious ; and request you to be so kind as to
turn to the existing laws and incorporate into the two bills all
that ought to he retained of them.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, Jan. 11, 1799,

Dear Sir :

Permit me, in addition to what I said yesterday, to request,
that laying aside other business you will occupy yourself on the
two military bills only. The session is short, and but little of it
to come. If possible, let me have the bills by Monday's mail, or
at furthest Tuesday's.

I have not been able to ascertain what part some of your
friends in the House mean to take respecting the appropriations
necessary for the new army. Upon an examination of the laws,
I was obliged to relinquish the opinion that they had provided
for other expenditures on account of the new army than what
might be incurred before the end of the next session of Congress,
that is, the present. You know the causes and obstructions
which have prevented me doing any thing to carry the law for
raising the army into effect during the last year.

190 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 42.

HAMILTON" TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, January 15, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I find I cannot liave ready for this day's post tlie bill for tlie
provisional army. Inclosed are some additional clauses relating
to organization, consequently to be inserted in the bill sent by
yesterday's post. You will easily determine their proper position
there. They are necessary to systematic propriety. General
provisions of this kind will prevent continued repetitions in
every new law respecting the military force.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, January 16th, 1799.

Dear Sir :

You will receive herewith the draft of a bill for a provisional
army. It includes only those things of a former bill which are
appropriated to this object ; the other parts of that bill being
now in full force. The operation of the bill, which has been al-
ready sent you, renders the repetition of several clauses in the
present unnecessary. The aim, indeed, ought to be to have a
fundamental arrangement which will attach of course upon all
subsequent provisions of force, so that the law for every augmen-
tation need only define the number to be raised, and the dura-
tion of service, and the mode of raising.

An eye has been had to this in the draft of the first bill,
and one of the two additional clauses now sent for the same bill
has the same view. This will be more deliberately and correctly
attended to in the plan of a bill which I shall begin to work
upon from this time, but which cannot be ready for a considera-
ble time. A bill for the hospital establishment will follow in
two or three days.

Yours truly, A. H.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 191

P. S. The considerable mutilation of the nominations pro-
posed by the Commander-in-Chief, as it appears in the result,
naturally excites curiosity. It ought to be presumed, and yet
the mind naturally distrusts the presumption, that there are good
reasons for it, and that the service will be finally benefited.
But I confess it would be a relief to me to know a little in
detail, what has influenced the departure, how the unfitness of
those who have been declined, has appeared, and what means
are in train to do any better. Pray be particular, and confiden-
tial. You will not consider any letter of mine, beginning "Dear
sir," as ofiicial.

Measures in the War Department ivhich it may he expedient to adopt.
To organize anew the militia, on a plan something like the follow-
ing, viz. :

To be divided into five classes.

First class, consisting of all unmarried men from 18 to 25,
except apprentices under 21 to merchants, mechanics, and manu-
facturers, and students under the same age in universities, col-
leges, and academies, and of divinity, law, and medicine.

Second class, consisting of all unmarried men from 25 to 40.

Third class, consisting of all married men from 18 to 25, ex-
cept as excepted in the first class.

Fourth class, consisting of all married men from 25 to 40.

Fifth class, consisting of all men above 40, and not exceed-
ing 50.

Each class to be formed into corps of infantry, artillery, and
cavalry, combined into legions to consist of four regiments of
infantry, one regiment of horse, and a battalion of artillery. All
who choose to enter into the cavalry and provide themselves
with horses, arms, and accoutrements, to be at liberty to do it.
Each class to be called out in succession as numbered ; in whole
or in part, liable to serve for a year. None of a higher number
to be called out until all of any preceding lower number have
been called out and served their tour.

192 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

In case of domestic insurrection, no man ahle to serve shall
be excused on any condition.

In case of foreign war, any man may be excused, paying //o
dollars.

No militia (except those inhabiting frontier counties) shall be
obliged to serve against Indians, nor those inhabiting frontier
counties for more than in one year.

Any man who shall refuse to serve his tour when required,
to be imprisoned during the term of service, or compelled to
labor at some public work at the option of the government.

Cases of exempts to be defined in the laws.

The respective classes to be liable to be called out for inspec-
tion and exercise as follows :

First class, days in a year.

Second class, days in a year.

Third class, days in a year.

Fourth class, days in a year.

Fifth class, one day in a year.

The militia, vjhen in service^ to be subject to the same rules of
discipline and government as the army of the United States.

II. A regiment to be raised consisting of commissioned offi-
cers and persons engaged as sergeants, and with the pay of such,
that is to say, in their own corps, they shall serve by rotation as
sergeants, corporals, and privates ; but out of their regiment they
shall only be employed as sergeants. All new regiments which
may be raised shall have their sergeants from this corps, which
shall have a fixed station, and be carefully instructed in all the
parts of camp, field, and garrison service. It may be considered,
whether this idea may not be extended to artillery and cavalry.
This corps to constitute the basis of an army in case of need.

III. To establish a provisional or auxiliary army, composed
of four regiments of infantry, one regiment of cavalry, and one
battalion of artillery, formed into a legion of two brigades, each
brigade commanded by a Brigadier, and the legion by a Major-
General.

This legion to be raised by voluntary enlistment, according
to a certain distribution in the following parts of the United

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 193

States, In the part of Pennsylvania and Virginia lying west of the
Alleghany, the northwestern and southwestern governments,
Kentucky, South Carolina, and Georgia.

The consideration of enlistment to be a suit of clothes of the
value of ten dollars per annum, and when in the field the same
pay and allowance as other troops of the United States.

To be engaged for a term of j^ears, but except in case

of domestic insurrection or foreign invasion, not to be obliged to
serve in the field more than months in one year. One

brigade to be raised in the western parts of Pennsylvania and
Virginia, the Northwestern Territory, and the State of Ken-
tucky. The Brigadier to be immediately charged with all the
military afiairs of the United States in that scene. The other
brigade to be raised in the other part of the country above de-
scribed, with the same immediate charge to its Brigadier of the
military afiairs of the United States in that scene.

The Major-General to have the general direction.

IV. The following miscellaneous objects to be aimed at.

1. The establishment of a system of trade with the Indians
under the agents of government ; a plan in detail for this pur-
pose.

2. The establishing it as a principle, that every man in arms
to attack or resist Indians, excej)t in some county under the ac-
^i^aZ jurisdiction of the laws, shall be ipso facto liable to the rules
for the government of the army.

3. The establishment of manufactories under public autho-
rity, of cannon, muskets and other arms, powder and ball. All
articles of clothing except hats and shoes.

1^^ The organization of the army to be revised ; it is pre-
sumed to be susceptible of one more perfect.

E 13 *

194 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO irHENRY.

New- York, February 21, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I send you tlie draft of a bill for regulating the medical estab-
lishment. (I avoid purposely the term department^ which I would
reserve for the great branches of administration.) You will see
that nothing but an organization with a general outline of duty
is provided for. Detailed regulations will properly come from
the President and the departments ; and the less these are legis-
lated upon, in such cases, the better. When fixed by law, they
cannot be varied, as experience advises.

This particular establishment, is one to the right fashioning
of which I feel myself more than ordinarily incompetent.

You mention in one of your letters, that by the law of the
16th of July, the appropriation for the augmented army ceases
at the end of the present session. This is one construction of that
law. A different might perhaps be mentioned. But be this as
it may, you will find by a subsequent act of the same date, enti-
tled, " An act making certain appropriations, &c.," that 900,000
dollars are there appropriated for the same object, without any
qualifications ; and I take it for granted that whatever money
should have been issued from the Treasury for the use of the
War Department, previous to the end of the session — upon the
first of those acts, might be expended afterwards by this depart-
ment without any question about its regularity.

M HENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, January 22d, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I omitted to inclose you yesterday the annexed schedule,
upon which my letter was a commentary.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 195

The General-in-Chief has mentioned to me in explicit terms,
" That it is a part of his plan to decline the occupation of the
office, unless, and until his presence in the field should be re-
quired for actual operations, or other imperious circumstances
should require his assistance. That, jDersevering in this plan, he
cannot undertake to assume a direct agency incompatible there-
with, and that a half-way acting might be more inconvenient
than totally declining it. He then advises, in conformity with
my opinion given to him in Philadelphia, a division of the mili-
tary command between the existing General officers. I mention
this that you may experience no embarrassment in giving your
ideas upon the distribution most proper to be adopted.

I have this moment received your note of the 21st, and the
sketch of the hospital bill, and am ever your affectionate friend.

GENERAL GUJSTN TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, January 23d, 1799.

Dear General:

In haste I inclose you by this day's mail a printed copy of
the military bill reported to the Senate. The bill was handed
me by M'Henry, and he is engaged in drawing a bill for regulat-
ing the hospital dej)artment. Have the goodness to return the
bill, with such amendments as you think proper to make. I
do not see the utility of a full Colonel to a regiment.

If your other engagements are not too pressing, you will
greatly oblige me by inclosing a plan for the provisional army.
It is my opinion that every State ought to officer one regiment,
at least, and that the President be authorized to commission all the
officers immediately. The policy of the thing will not be
doubted. Our friends in the House of Eepresentatives permit
•the enemy to gain time by long speeches.
With very great regard, &c.

1«:)6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO ^rHENRY.

New-York, January 24th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

You ask my opinion as to a proper arrangement for the com-
mand of the military force, on the ground that the Commander-
in-Chief declines at present an active part.

This is a delicate subject for me ; yet in the shape in which it
presents itself. I shall waive the scruples which are natural on
the occasion.

If I rightly understood the Commander-in-Chief, his wish was
that all the military points and military force every where,
should be put under the direction of the two Major-Generals,
who alone should be the organs of the department of war.

The objects of this plan are to disburthen the head of that
department of infinite details, which must unavoidably clog his
general arrangements, and to establish a vigilant military super-
intendence over all the military points. There is no difficulty in
this plan, except as to the western army.

It will be a very natural disposition to give to the Inspector-
Greneral the command of all the troops and posts north of Mary-
land, and to General Pinckney the command of all the troops
and posts south of the district assigned to the Inspector-General.
How will this plan as to the western army answer ?

Let all the troops upon the lakes, including those on the Mi-
ami, which communicate with Lake Erie, be united under the

command of one officer, to be stationed at . Let all the

troops in Tennessee be united under the command of one officer,

to be stationed at . Let them consider themselves under

the order of the General who commands the western army, and
let the whole be placed under the Inspector-General. The offi-
cers commanding on the lakes, and in Tennessee, to be permitted
to correspond immediately with the Inspector-General, and re-
ceive orders from him.

All the communications, as well of these officers as of the
General of the western army, to be sent open, under cover of the

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 197

Secretary of War, wlio, in urgent cases, will himself give orders,
if the Inspector-General be not on the spot, which he will com-
municate for his future government to the Inspector-General, and
in cases not urgent, will leave matters to the agency of the In-
spector-General, according to the instructions which he shall re-
ceive from the Department of AYar.

It is easy to perceive that there are objections to this plan.
I am not sure that it ought to be adopted. The pour and the
contre will readily occur to you, and you will take and reject, as
shall appear to you proper ; assured always that personally, I
shall be content with any arrangement you may think advisable.

HAMTRANCK TO HAMILTON.

Fort Wayne, January 25th, 1799.

Dear General :

It gives me a singular pleasure to have an opportunity of
congratulating you on the choice that the President and Senate
have made in the appointment of the Inspector-General of the
army.

America will see once more those military talents which were
formerly confined in their execution to too small a compass, now
diffuse themselves into every department of the profession, and
display themselves on a much larger scale, and the pupil under
your tuition will rejoice in having an opportunity of making
himself perfect in the art of Avar.

I hope, my dear General, that you will not give a wrong in-
terpretation to my letter. It is not flattery ; it is the real senti-
ment I have always entertained of your abilities since I had the
honor of serving under your immediate command, and on all
occasions I have proclaimed to the western army. Long and
long have I wished to introduce those principles you taught me.

198 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

HAMILTON TO

(circular.)

New-York, January 30tli, 1799.

Sir:

A letter from the Secretary at War, of yesterday, places un-
der my superintendence the posts and troops under your imme-
diate command. All future communications therefore respecting
them, including reports and returns, are to be addressed to me ;
not as heretofore to the Secretary at War.

It is my wish, as soon as possible, to receive a full and parti-
cular communication of the state of things within your com-
mand, embracing the number and condition of the works and
buildings ; the quantities and kinds of artillery, arms, and stores ;
the number of the troops and their situations ; as to discipline,
equipment, and supply ; and that you will in future keep me
regularly advised of whatever may be material for the successful
discharge of your trust or the advancement of the service.

I cannot let this first opportunity pass, without calling your
attention in an official manner to the discipline of the troops.
The cursory observation which I have been hitherto able to
make, has been sufficient to satisfy that there exists in this re-
spect too general a relaxation ; an evil which must, at all times,
be corrected by the union of care, prudence, and energy.

No argument is necessary to prove how essential is discipline
to the respectability and success of the service, and consequently
to the honor, interest, and individual importance of every officer
of the army. To the exertions for maintaining it, my firm sup-
port at all times may be absolutely counted upon, as it will be
my steady aim, on the one hand, to promote, to every reasona-
ble extent, the comfort of the troops ; on the other, to secure a
strict observance of their duty.

With great consideration,

I am, Dear Sir,

Your obedient Servant.

To the Commanding Officer of West Point and its dependencies.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 199

M HENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, February 4th, 1799.

Sir:

Lieutenant-General Washington having declined, agreeably
to the condition upon which he accepted of his appointment, any
command whatever of the army of the United States, until such
time as his presence in the field shall be required for actual
operations, or his services demanded by peculiar and urgent cir-
cumstances ; it is therefore proper to make such arrangements,
respecting the distribution of the existing military authority, as
shall most conduce to the good of the service, and is best adapted
to our present situation, and to the objects to which our force
may eventually be applied.

Before entering into particulars upon the principal subject at
present contemplated, it will be useful to enumerate the stations
of the troops of the United States, and the course taken to com-
municate with them.

1. There are, on the Lakes, namely, on Lake Ontario, the
garrisons of Oswego and Niagara ; on Lake Brie and Lake St.
Clair, the garrisons of Presque Isle and Detroit ; on Lake Hu-
ron, at the entrance of the strait leading to Lake Michigan,
the garrison of Miehilimackinac ; on the Miami River, Fort
Wayne; on the Ohio, Fort Franklin, Fort Washington, and
Fort Massac.

2. There are, on the Mississippi, garrisons at the Chickasaw
Bluffs, Walnut Hills, and Natchez, or Loftus Heights.

3. There are several posts on the Creek frontier of the State
of Georgia.

4. There are several posts on the Indian frontier of the State
of Tennessee.

5. There are several garrisons on the seaboard from Maine to
Georgia, inclusive.

The first enumerated posts (except Oswego and Niagara),
while General Wilkinson was at certain stations in the North-
western Territory, have communicated through him with the
Department of War. The second, do now communicate through

200 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

General Wilkinson, who is on the Mississippi. The third,
through Lieutenant-Colonel Butler. The fourth, through Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Gaither. The fifth, through the medium of the
commandants of the several garrisons.

I have said that the first described garrisons communicated
through General Wilkinson while at certain stations. For ex-
ample, when the General was stationary at Pittsburg, or Fort
Washington, on the Ohio, the whole of these garrisons above
and below him, except Oswego and Niagara, communicated di-
rectly with the Genera], and the General with the Secretary of
War. Again ; when the General held a position at Detroit, all
the garrisons between him and the seat of government, though
within his sphere of command, communicated directly with the
Secretary of War. Lastly ; since the General entered into the
Mississippi, all the garrisons above him communicated directly
with the Secretary of War.

Oswego and Niagara being, in all the aforesaid positions of
the General, too distant to enable him to give quick information
respecting them, were always allowed to hold direct communica-
tions with the Department of War.

A slight view of the map of the country, over which troops
are stationed, the distance between the garrisons, the routes by
which it is practicable for them to communicate with each other
and with the seat of government, added to a consideration of the
serious inconveniences that might have resulted during the un-
settled state of things, which has existed for some time past gen-
erally on the frontiers, rendered an adherence to the rule of
making no communications to any of them unless through the
commanding General, whatever might have been his position,
dilatory beyond measure, and too dangerous for practice during
such a period.

It has been deemed equally inconsistent with situation, and
dangerous to tranquillity, to make the General, who is now at
Loftus Heights, on the Mississippi, the organ by which the De-
partment of War should communicate with the garrisons and
troops on the seaboard, and the frontiers of Georgia and Ten-
nessee.

JEt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 20l

The state of things common to an Indian frontier, such as
that of Georgia and Tennessee, has rendered it indispensable to
the success of the measures of government to obtain the earliest
information of every circumstance that might lead to war in
those quarters, or to serious embarrassments, if not early coun-
teracted. That a rapid communication might at all times take
place, the frontiers of Georgia and Tennessee have been formed
into two districts, and the commandant of the military force
within each made the organ of communication for his respective
district.

Few of the fortifications on the seaboard having been garri-
soned before the law passed for raising a second regiment, or
corps of artillerists and engineers, the whole of these garrisons
have been permitted to correspond directly with the Secretary of
War.

. You will see in the project of regulations, which I sketched
some time since, and which was put into your hands by General
Washington, that I contemplated to arrange in separate districts
the force and posts on the seaboard, as well as on the western
frontiers, and to combine as many of them, as could be so done
with convenience to the service, under the superintendence of
the then General-in-Chief This part of the regulations had for
its basis the French ordinances relative to the same subject, was
intended to introduce more order and system into our military
affairs, and abridge, as far as consistent with the general interest,
the epistolary labors of the department. The execution of this
project met with some obstructions, and has been procrastinated
by causes, which it is deemed unnecessary to relate.

While the ideas presented to you exhibit the difliculties that
would attend the imposing upon any General of&cer the entire
correspondence with the army, unless indeed he was to be ab-
stracted wholly from the troops, and to reside constantly at the
seat of government, they point, nevertheless, to the practicability
of dividing the army into subordinate commands, and of placing
a certain number of such commands under the control and super-
intendence of district officers.

The President has accordingly directed me to make such an

202 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

arrangement for our military force, as may correspond witli our
situation, and to assign to tlie Major-Generals, who are to com-
mand it, the superintendence of such portions thereof, as may
best tend to promote military discipline, the general interests of
the service, and the objects of the military establishment.

You will therefore be pleased, until otherwise instructed, to
consider yourself invested with the entire command of all the
troops in garrison on the northern Lakes in the Northwestern
Territory, including both banks of the Ohio, and on the Missis-
sippi. You will, as an organ of communication between you and
the garrisons on the Lakes in the Northwestern Territory, and
occasionally those on the Mississippi, direct, if you judge it
proper, Brigadier-General Wilkinson to establish his head-
quarters at Pittsburg, or such other position as you may deem
best calculated to facilitate his communications to you, and also
with the garrisons you may place under his superintendence.
You will, if you find it can be arranged to advantage, establish
subordinate districts within his command, with each a command-
ant, who shall alone communicate with General Wilkinson, and
receive your orders through him, relative to the garrisons under
their superintendence respectively. You will make similar dis-
positions on the Mississippi, for the superintendence of the gar-
risons within that district.

In deciding upon these arrangements, you will be particu-
larly careful, that they do not occasion inconvenient delays in
the transmission of information to the seat of government, or
throw obstructions in the way of immediate succors being given
to the most remote garrisons, in cases of urgency ; and will
direct your corresponding officers in the Northwestern Territory
and on the Mississippi to pass all letters, which they address to
you, open, and through the Secretary of War, at least so long as
your position shall be such as to aftbrd to the Secretary an op-
portunity to know their contents sooner, than if they were to be
received by you in the first instance. By this arrangement, it
will be at all times in the power of the Secretary of War to give
orders in emergencies, which can afterwards be communicated to
you for your future government.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 203

Besides the command of the troops and garrisons in the
tract of country before described, you will assume that of all
the troops and posts which are, or may be, within the State of
Maryland, and all the States to the northward and eastward
thereof

Major-General Pinckney will be instructed to take the com-
mand of all the troops and posts that are or may be within the
States of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
Kentucky, and Tennessee.

It is expected, and you will give orders accordingly, that the
garrisons and troops within your command and superintendence
make returns and observe the inclosed regulations.

The recruiting service is an object of primary importance; it
is conceived to be particularly connected with the duties of the
Inspector-General ; the sole direction of it is therefore, with a
view to order and efl&ciency, confided to you alone.

It is to be lamented that circumstances have prevented the
obtaining of an early supply of necessary clothing for the troops,
directed to be raised by the act passed the 16th of Julj^, 1798,
and that the progress made, since it was practicable to enter
upon the business, does not justify our immediately commencing
the recruiting service. Inclosed is a report by the purveyor of
the public supplies, which shows the quantities of the different
articles of clothing, which he thinks may be relied on, and the
times at which he presumes it will be ready for delivery.

Although, however, the impracticability of obtaining a
proper supply of clothing may impose the necessity of some
delay in the actual commencement of the recruiting service,
nevertheless certain preparatory arrangements, it is thought,
may greatly facilitate the same. You are invited, therefore, to
lose no time in dividing, at least, the States from which officers
have lately been appointed, into as many districts as there are
companies to be raised in them, and forwarding to the officers to
be emploj^ed respectively in each district, through the command-
ant, their recruiting instructions, with orders, either to hold
themselves prepared to enter upon the service the moment they
receive your ulterior directions, or to engage provisionally as

204 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

many recruits as are willing to enroll tliemselves on their lists,
and who may be promised pay from the day of their being en.
rolled and sworn, with their bounty, upon the officer receiving
his final instructions, or (which perhaps is safer) uiDon their
arrival at the general rendezvous.

The instructions advert to the qualifications of recruits in
general terms. It may be proper to be more particular than the
instructions are respecting enlistments for the cavalry.

The important services to which the cavalry are destined
(the event of actions sometimes depending solely upon their
valor and impression), render it indispensable, that such corps
be composed of the best materials, and, in proportion to the
small number assigned to the army and the effects' expected to
be produced by them, that the utmost care be observed in their
selection.

Let the regulations, then, upon this point restrict the recruit-
ing ofl&cer to engage none except natives for this corps, and, of
these, such only as, from their known character and fidelity, may
be trusted to the extent of their powers.

The size of the cavalry recruit deserves a degree of attention.
Warnery observes very justly, in his remarks on cavalry, "that,
in every species of cavalry, the man ought to he pmportioned to the
size of his horse^ and the arms with which he is to serve adapted
and proportioned to them both, and to the nature of the service
to be performed ; consequently the cuirassier should be larger
and his arms heavier than the dragoon, and these more so than
the light-horse or hussars. A small man has great difficulty to
mount a large horse, particularly with a cuirass ; they should
all, however, be muscular and robust, but not heavy ; the Prus-
sian dragoons are too heavy for their horses ; and it is ridiculous
to see a large man upon a small horse, which, by being strained
with too much weight, is very soon ruined, and the trooper dis-
mounted ; a man who is more than five feet eight inches ought
not to be received into the cavalry."

It will be proper that Major-General Pinckney should attend
to the recruiting service in the division of country assigned to
his command, and that he should receive from you all the neces-
sary instructions upon the subject.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 205

You will report monthly to the Secretary of War an ab-
stract of the number of men recruited, the clothing which may
be wanted, and the necessary moneys to be remitted for the
service.

Inclosed is a schedule of the officers, who have accepted their
appointments, with their respective places of residence annexed.
Inclosed also is a list of the officers at present employed in the
recruiting service, and their places of residence.

Should you think the existing instructions to recruiting offi-
cers require revision, or that additional articles are necessary
for the extensive field we are entering upon, to give more
system to the business, you will report the alterations or ad-
ditions, that they may be submitted to the President for his
decision, incorporating therein those which respect the cavalry.

You will also indicate to me, as soon as possible, the several
stations where rations must be provided, that measures may be
taken accordingly.

Connected with this subject is another of considerable im-
portance ; I mean the permanent disposition of the troops after
they shall have been raised.

Having taken the opinion of General "Washington on this
point, it is thought advisable that it should be adopted, until a
change of circumstances shall render a different disposition
proper. The General observed, that, though it might now be
premature to fix a permanent disposition of the troops, it might,
nevertheless, be useful to indicate certain stations, where they
may be assembled provisionally, and may probably be suffered
to continue while matters remain in the present posture. The
stations eligible in this view may be found for two regiments in
the vicinity of Providence Eiver, near Uxbridge ; for two other
regiments in the vicinity of Brunswick in New Jersey ; for two
other regiments in the vicinity of the Potomac near Harper's
Ferry ; for two other regiments in the vicinity of Augusta, but
above the Falls of the Savannah. This disposition, the General
observed, will unite considerations relative to the discipline and
health of the troops, and to the economical supply of their wants.
It will also have some military aspects ; in the first place, towards

206 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

the security of Boston and Kewport ; in tlie second, towards that
of New- York and Philadelpliia ; in the third and fourth, towards
that of Baltimore, Charleston, Savannah, and the southern States
generally ; and, in the third, particularly towards the reinforce-
ment of the western army in certain events. But, he subjoined,
the military motives have only a qualified influence, since it is
not doubted, that, in the prospect of a serious attack upon this
country, the disposition of the army ought to look emphatically
to the southern region, as that which is by far most likely to be
the scene of action.

It was also the General's opinion, which is concurred in, that
the companies directed to be added to the regiments of the old
establishment ought, as soon as is convenient, to reinforce the
western army, and that their destination in the first instance
may be Pittsburg,

His opinion is also in general to be adopted relative to the
disposition of the artillery. He proposed to assign a complete
battalion to the western army ; to the fortifications at Boston,
one company ; to those at New- York, two companies ; to those
at Newport, two companies ; to those at West Point, one ; to
those at Mud Island, two ; to those at Baltimore, one ; to those
at Norfolk, two ; to those on Cape Fear River, one ; to those at
Charleston, two; to those at Savannah, one; to those at the
mouth of the St. Mary's, one. It is thought there may be some
other fortified places on the seaboard that will require attention,
which is left to you to decide upon, after you have taken a de-
liberate view of the subject. He is further of opinion, that the
remaining two battalions had better be reserved for the army in
the field, and that, during the winter, they may retain the sta-
tions they now occupy; but that, as soon as they can con-
veniently go into tents, it will be advisable to assemble them
at some central or nearly central point, there to be put in a
course of regular instruction, together with successive detach-
ments of the ofiicers and non-commissioned officers of the sea-
board garrisons, until their services shall be actually required.

You will therefore give effect to the aforesaid disposition,
and so arrange the companies of artillery, that those belong-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 207

ing to the same regiment or corps may form contiguous gar-
risons.

You will also make sucli an arrangement of the subalterns
to the captains of artillerists and engineers, as in your opinion
will produce the gTcatest harmony among the officers, and good
to the service. Inclosed is a list of the names of all the ofl&cers
in the army, classed according to their respective regiments or
corps, with the date of their commissions.

A system of regulations being wanted for the government
and discipline of the volunteer companies, you will, as soon as
convenient, report one for the consideration of the President.

Inclosed is the copy of a letter to Brigadier- Greneral Wilkin-
son, dated the 31st of January, 1799, by which you will perceive
that he is instructed to wait your orders.

Considering with what view the posts, which our troops oc-
cupy on the Lakes, were originally erected, it may be useful to
employ a judicious engineer to survey them and the adjacent
country on the Lakes, in order that it may be ascertained, in
the various relations of trade and defence, whether they are sus-
ceptible of any beneficial changes. You will for this purpose
select from the corps of artillerists and engineers, at a convenient
time, a qualified ofUcer to make the necessary survey, and report
the result relative to these objects.

It is required that you report, as soon as it can be done with
convenience, a system of regulations for the government of the
Inspector-General, and the assistant inspectors of every descrip-
tion, expressive of their duties and functions, and comprising
the duties of those officers to whom their functions are ap-
plicable.

I need not urge it upon you, to exercise the most vigilant
superintendence over every branch of the service within the
sphere of your command. I cannot avoid, however, calling
your particular attention to the discovery of the causes, which
may induce irregularity in the police of the armies, in the field,
and in our posts or garrisons upon the different frontiers of the
United States ; and enjoin, that every legal and proper step be
instantly resorted to, which the laws or the usages of armies

208 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

authorize on sucli occasions, to punish, tlie offenders, and pro-
duce a salutary result. It is expected, that you will neglect no
means of obliging, at the stated periods, the proper officers to
make all returns requisite to exhibit the number and state of the
troops in every position ; to forward their muster and pay rolls,
returns of the quantity of clothing delivered, on hand, or due to
the soldiers, of the distribution generally of the public property,
of the quantity and situation of every article in store, of the
supplies which are or may be wanted, and every other exhibit
and return necessary to the information of the Secretary of
War, and indispensable to the accounting officers of the War
Department.

You know precisely how much the regularity and perfection
of such returns depend on the disposition of officers to execute
their orders ; and that a saving to the public, or a judicious and
well-regulated economy, is rather more to be expected from the
integrity, vigilance, and knowledge of those who are intrusted,
or have a control over the army expenditures and property, than
from the wisest general regulations or instructions that can pos-
sibly be devised. Whenever there is found a deficiency of se-
cure deposits for, or a want of requisite qualities in the officer
charged with the care and management of, the public property,
it is expected that you will remedy the evil, if within your law-
ful powers, or point to the circumstance, that it may be con-
sidered by the authority competent to the remedy.

Finally, I cannot conclude these instructions without ex-
pressing my most unlimited confidence in your talents to exe-
cute the high trusts, which the President reposes in you, and
my own most perfect reliance upon your co-operation and as-
sistance in every thing that concerns the army establishment,
and the means to remedy whatever defects may be found to
exist therein ; and that I shall at all times recognize, in the exe-
cution of the orders which you may receive, the most perfect
evidences of your candor and friendship.

I have the honor to be, &c.,

James McHenry.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 209

SECRETARY OF NAVY TO HAMILTON.

Navy Department, February 6th, 1799.

Sir:

I tiave tlie honor to inclose a paper containing tlie circum-
stances, and all tlie circumstances connected with the relative
rank of Captains Truxton, Talbot, and Dale.

It appears to me, that Talbot and Dale cannot now be placed
above Truxton, but by dismissing the latter from the service.

Dale, who has permission to make an East India voyage, is
reconciled to what he conceives unavoidable, to rank after Trux-
ton, Entertaining a very high opinion of Talbot, I am anxious
that he should also acquiesce. From conversation with him, I
judge it is in your power alone to satisfy him.

The error was in not selecting the three senior captains for
the three frigates continued in service. The President, I con-
ceive, had no power to continue more captains than frigates.

If Talbot will continue, only Barry, Nicholson, and Truxton

will be above him. Nicholson cannot be long in his way.

Barry is old and infirm, and not satisfied that he is not made an

admiral. It is more than probable, Truxton and Talbot may not

be on the same service.

Stoddert.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New- York, February 6th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

In one of your letters you desire me to think of the distribu-
tion of the States into recruiting districts. I have accordingly
turned my attention to this subject. But the result is, that it
will be best to assign to each regiment its district and to charge
its commanding ofl&cer with the a lan ment into subdivisions.
If you approve this idea, you had better write me an ofiicial let-
e 14

210 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 42.

ter, briefly telling me that the recruiting service is to be put un-
der my direction, and desiring me to make a preliminary arrange-
ment for the distribution of the States into recruiting districts
and rendezvouses ; upon which I will send the proper instruc-
tions to the several commanders of regiments.

I have not yet observed that the places of the officers omitted
in the arrangement reported by the general officers, have been
supplied. I hope the recruiting service will begin with complete,
not with mutilated or defective corps.

I regret that Gibbs was not appointed. There is good reason
to believe that he would command a regiment well ; probably
better than the person whom the objectors to him would approve.
Their rule of judging of military qualification is most likely no
very accurate one,

I regret, also, that the objection against anti-federalism has
been carried so far as to exclude several of the characters pro-
posed by us. We were very attentive to the importance of
appointing friends of the government to military stations; but
we thought it well to relax the rule in favor of particular
merit in a few instances, and especially in reference to the infe-
rior grades. It does not seem advisable to exclude all hope, and
to give to appointments too absolute a party feature. Military
situations, on young minds particularly, are of all others best
•calculated to inspire a zeal for the service, and the cause in which
the incumbents are employed. When the President thinks of
.his son-in-law, he should be moderate in this respect.

The inclosed letter from Colonel Fairlie relates to the second
•son of our late Chief Justice. His father, you know, was anti-
federal. This young man has as yet no fixed political creed.
They tell me there is nothing personally to his disadvantage. I
am clear, therefore, that it will be expedient to give him an ap-
pointment.

Adieu, my dear friend. Yours truly, &c.

;Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 211

M^HENEY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, February 8th, 1709.

Your instructions (for recruiting) are, and have been, some
days with the President. The moment he is pleased to decide,
so as to enable me to proceed, you shall have them. I spoke to
him yesterday on the subject ; he had not considered them, and
seemed to intimate the affair need not be hurried.

HAMILTON TO WILKINSON.

New-York, February 12th, 1799.

Sir:

The interesting incidents which have latterly occurred in our
political situation, having rendered it expedient to enlarge the
sphere of our military arrangements, it has in consequence be-
come necessary to regulate the superintendence of our military
force in its various and detached positions, in such a manner, as
while it will serve to disburthen the Department of War of details
incompatible with its more general and more important occupa-
tions, Avill likewise conduce to uniformity and system in the dif-
ferent branches of the service.

The Commander-in-Chief having, for the present, declined
actual command, it has been determined, in pursuance of the
above views, to place the military force every where, under the
superintendence of Major-General Pinckney and myself.

In the allotment for this purpose, my agency is extended to
the garrisons on the northern lakes, and to all the troops in the
Northwestern Territory, including both banks of the Ohio and
upon the Mississippi ; in short, to all the western army, except
the parts which may be in the States of Tennessee and Kentucky.

Of this you will have been informed by the Secretary at War.

212 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42-

From the relation, which is thus constituted between us, I
allow myself to anticipate great mutual satisfaction. Every dis-
position on my part will certainly facilitate it, and tend to pro-
mote the discharge of your trust in the manner best adapted to
your honor and the advancement of the service.

It was the united opinion of the Commander-in-Chief, General
Pinckney, and myself, when lately convened at Philadelphia,
that your speedy presenc ? in this quarter was necessary, towards
a full discussion of the affairs of the siene in which you have so
long had the direction in their various relations, and towards the
formation, with the aid of your lights, of a more perfect plan for
present and eventual arrangements. Much may be examined in
a personal interview, which, at so great a distance, cannot be
effected by writing.

The actual and probable situation of our public affairs, in
reference to foreign powers, renders this step indispensable.

You will therefore be pleased, with all practicable expedition,
to repair to Philadelphia ; upon your arrival there giving me
immediate advice of it. If this can be most conveniently accom-
plished by way of New-Orleans, you are at liberty to take that
route. On this point you are the best judge, and will no doubt
act with circumspection.

It must rest with you to dispose of the command of the troops
at the different stations during your absence, and to give the
projjcr instructions, in conformity with those which have been
received from the Secretary at War.

On this head, only one remark will be made. The confi-
dence in your judgment has probably led to the reposing in you
discretionary powers too delicate to be intrusted to an ofiicer less
tried ; capable, perhaps, of being so used, as to commit prema-
turely the peace of the United States. Discretions of this ten-
dency ought not to be transferred beyond what may be indispen-
sable for defensive security.

Care must be taken that the nati n be not embroiled, but in
consequence of a deliberate policy in the government.

Of&cial letters from you to me, as you have been apprised by
the Secretary at War, are to be forwarded through him. They

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 213

must be open and under cover. The design of this is, that he
may have an opportunity, in cases of great urgency, which could
not conveniently wait for my direction, to interpose with the
requisite measures.

In your absence, it will be ]}roper that the officer, or officers
you may substitute in the command, should communicate with
you, also transmitting their letters open, under cover, to the Sec-
retary at War. This will preserve unbroken the chain of your
command.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, February 15tli, 1799.

Sir:

The Secretary at War lias communicated to me the following
disposition with regard to the superintendence of our military
forces and posts.

Ail those in the States south of Maryland, in Tennessee and
Kentucky, are placed under the direction of Major-General
Pinckney ; those every where else under my direction, to which
he has added the general care of the recruiting service.

The commencement of the business of recruiting, however,
is still postponed, for the reason as assigned by the Secretary,
that a supply of clothing is not yet ready.

In conformity with your ideas, I have directed General Wil-
kinson to repair to the seat of government, in order to a more full
■examination of the affairs of the western scene, and to the con-
'Certing of ulterior arrangements.

On this and on every other subject of our military concerns,
I shall be happy to receive from time to time such suggestions
and instructions as you may be pleased to communicate,

I shall regularly advise you of the progress of things, and
especially of every material occurrence.

With perfect respect, I have the honor to be, &c.

214 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

(private.)

New- York, February 16th, 1799

Dear Sir :

Different reasons liave conspired to prevent my writing to
you since my return to New- York ; the multiplicity of my avo-
cations, an imperfect state of health, and the want of something
material to communicate.

The official letter herewith transmitted will inform you of the
disposition of our military affairs which has been recently adopt-
ed by the Department of War. There shall be no want of exer-
tion on my part to promote the branches of the service confided
to my care.

But I more and more discover cause to apprehend that obsta-
cles of a very peculiar kind stand in the way of an efficient and
successful management of our military concerns. These it would
be unsafe at present to explain.

It may be useful that I should be able to write to you here-
after some confidential matters relating to our administration,
without the mention of names. When this happens, I shall
designate the President by X, the Secretary of State by V, of
the Treasury by I, and of the Department of War by 0. Every
thing in the northern quarter, as far as I can learn, continues
favorable to the government.

Very affectionately and truly,

I remain, &c.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 215

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, February 16th, 1799.

Sir:

It is very material to me to have, without delay, the distri-
bution of the additional twelve regiments and troops of horse
among the respective States, according to the organization or
arrangement which is contained in the report made to you in
December, by the Commander-in-Chief.

This is requested with reference to the appointment of re-
cruitino; rendezvous.

HAMILTO:^ TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, February 18th, 1799.

My Dear Sir :

Unwilling to take the liberty to ask you to give yourself any
particular trouble on the subject, I have written the inclosed
letters. I beg you to dispose of them as you suppose will best
answer the end in view ; that is, to obtain a speedy distribution
of the State into districts and sub-districts.
With the truest attachment,

I have the honor to be, my dear Sir, &;c.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, February 19th, 1799.

Dear Sir :

It is intended to raise in Massachusetts, including the pro-
vince of Maine, two regiments.

216 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42-

It is desired, for this purpose, to divide the State into four
districts and twenty sub-districts, or company rendezvouses,

to the end, that the recruiting service for each company may in
the first instance be confined within a definite limit.

Will you, after consultation with such of your members
as you deem expedient, favor me with a plan for the above
purpose, and this as soon as may be ? A place as the head-
quarters of rendezvous, to which the recruits may be conveyed,
and where they may be accommodated, is necessary.

Yours truly.

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 22d February, 1799.

Dear Sir :

In answer to yours of the 19th, the gentlemen from Massa-
chusetts have been together. I mean just as I requested, and
have agreed on the following as the most eligible division of that
State for the purpose of recruiting on your plan. Maine, a
district ; four places of rendezvous : Portland, Wiscasset, Au-
gusta, and Castine. The counties of Essex, Suffolk, Bristol,
Dukes County, Nantucket, Barnstable, and Plymouth, a district ;
seven places of rendezvous : Haverhill, Newburyport, Salem,
Boston, Plymouth, Taunton, and Bridgewater. Middlesex, Nor-
folk, and Worcester, a district ; five places of rendezvous : Gro-
ton, Watertown, Petersham, Worcester, and Dedham. Hampshire
and Berkshire, a district; four places of rendezvous : Pittsfield,
Worthington, Northampton, and Springfield.

It was presumed that it was not intended to mark the exact
limits of each sub-district, as this could not be done without an
■ enumeration of all the towns in the State, and if expedient to be
be done at all, may be safely confided to the field ofiicers.

I have seen as far as they are in the ofiice of the Secretary of
.State, Mr. Murray's communications relative to the intercourse

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 217

between him and Piclion, Part of his letters have been immedi-
ately addressed to the President. As far as I have seen, there
is more evidence of integrity than of wisdom. The details I
have not time to write nor you to read.

It is one of the misfortunes to which we are subjected by the
wild and irregular starts of a vain, jealous, and half frantic mind,
that we are obliged to practise an infraction of correct princi-
ples, a direct communication between the President and Senate.
I am this morning to wait on him and solicit an interview be-
tween him and the committee upon his nomination. The objects
are to induce him to alter it, as it respects the person ; and in-
stead of an individual, to propose a commission, — as it respects
the principles on which the negotiation shall commence, — and as
it respects the scene within which it shall be carried on.

On all these points, I am told, and from good authority, he
has formed strong opinions. If they are unalterable, I believe
I must vote against the appointment, but at present I think that
is not the inclination of a majority. A circumstance confirma-
tory of the President's total ignorance of human nature is, that
he frequently declared, that he believed the message would add
to the federal energies of the legislature.

I am most sincerely yours.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, February 25th, 1799.

Sir:

I have been duly favored with your letter of the 15th instant.

When the disposition was contemplated for assigning to
Major-General Pinckney and to yourself your respective dis-
tricts of superintendence, I was of opinion (as you will see by
the inclosed copy of a letter, which I wrote to the Secretary of
War on my way from Philadelphia to this place), that the tuhole
of General AVilkinson's brigade should be considered as under

218 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

your immediate direction, because if a part of it wliicli is or may
be stationed in the States of Kentucky and Tennessee, should be
under the superintendence of General Pinckney, and the other
part under yours, it might occasion great inconvenience, and
perhaps confusion, for General Wilkinson to have to communi-
cate sometimes with one of the Major-Generals and sometimes
with the other. This, I conceive, will still be the case if the dis-
position which mention to have been communicated by the

Secretary of War should continue. I am therefore decidedly of
opinion that the whole of General Wilkinson's brigade should
be under your superintendence.

If it be determined to pursue the recruiting business at all, I
regret extremely that there should have been so much delay in
it ; for the favorable season is passing off every day, and when
the spring opens, great numbers of those who would readily en-
list now, will be then engaged in other avocations, and we shall
lose the precious moment.

I shall hope to be regularly advised of every occurrence which
takes place in your military arrangements that you may think
essential to communicate.

With very great regard, I am, &c,

P. S. I inclose herewith returns of troops, stores, &c., at Nia-
gara, which have been forwarded to me by Major Eivardi ; and
shall, in acknowledging the receipt of them, desire that the re-
turns in future may pass through you to the War Office,

AN ACT TO REGULATE THE MEDICAL ESTABLISHMENT.

Draft hy Hamilton.

25th February, 1799.

Section 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Eepre-
sentatives of the United States of America, in Congress assem-
bled, that in the medical establishment of the United States there
shall be the following officers : — A physician-general, who shall

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 219

be charged witli the superintendence and direction of all military
hospitals, and generally of all medical and chirurgical practice or
service concerning the army or navy of the United States, and
of all persons who shall be employed in and about the same, in
camps, garrisons, and hospitals.

An apothecary-general, and one or more deputies, who shall
be charged with the safe-keeping and delivery of all medicines,
instruments, dressings, and other articles for the use of the hos-
pital and the army, A purveyor, who shall be charged with
providing medicines, stores, and whatsoever else may be neces-
sary in relation to the said practice or service ; a competent num-
ber of hospital surgeons, who shall be liable to serve in the field,
and who shall have the immediate charge and direction of such
military hospitals as may be committed to their care respectively ;
a suitable number of hospital mates, who are to observe the di-
rections of the hospital surgeons, and shall diligently perform all
reasonable duties required of them, for the recovery of the sick
and wounded.

Section 2. And be it further enacted. That each military
hospital shall have a steward, with a competent number of
nurses and other attendants ; which steward shall be charged
with procuring of such supplies as may not otherwise be fur-
nished, and with the safe-keeping and issuing of all supplies.

Section Z. And be it further enacted. That the said physician-
general, hospital surgeons, purveyor, and apothecary or apothe-
caries, deputy or deputies, shall be appointed as other officers of
the United States ; that the said mates and stewards shall be ap-
pointed by the authority, and at the discretion of the said physi-
cian-general, subject to the eventual approbation and control of
the President of the United States, and shall be removable by
the authority of the said physician-general ; and that the surgeon
of each hospital shall appoint, employ, and fix the compensa-
tions of the nurses and other attendants of such hospital, subject
to the control of the said physician-general, or the hospital-sur-
geon, of senior appointment, with a separate army, or in a sepa-
rate district.

Section 4. And be it further enacted. That as often as the

220 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

regimental sick will not suffer by the employing of regimental
surgeons or mates, in the temporary or other hospitals of the
United States, the physician-general, or the hospital-surgeon of
senior appointment with a separate army, or in a separate dis-
trict, with the consent of the General and Commander-ni-Chief,
or the officer commanding a separate army, may require the at-
tendance of such surgeon or surgeon's mates, as, in his opinion,
can be with safety so withdrawn from their regiments.

Section 5. And be it further enacted. That it shall be the
duty of the physician-general, with two or more hospital-sur-
geons, to frame a system of directions relative to the description
of patients to be admitted into the hospitals ; to the means of
promoting cleanliness in the hospitals ; to the prevention of idle-
ness, skulking, and gambling in the hospitals ; to the prevention
of the spread of infectious distempers in the camps and hospitals,
and the government of nurses, and all others charged with the
care of the sick, in camps or hospitals, subject in the first instance
to the approbation and revision of the Commander-in-Chief, the
commander of a separate army, or in a separate district, as the
case may be, and eventually, the approbation and control of the
President of the United States. Provided always^ That the said
directions havino- received the sanction of the Commander-in-

O

Chief, or the commander of a separate army, shall be operative,
and remain in fall force, unless altered or annulled by the Presi-
dent of the United States.

Section 6. And be it further enacted. That the compensations
of the said several officers shall be as follows : Of the physician-
general one hundred dollars pay per month, and fifty dollars per
month, which shall be in full compensation for forage, rations,
and travelling expenses. Of the purveyor, one hundred dollars
pay per month, in full compensation for his services and all ex-
penses. Of the apothecary-general, eighty dollars pay per month,
and thirty dollars per month in full compensation for rations,
forage, and all expenses : of each of his deputies, fifty dollars
pay per month, and sixteen dollars per month in full compensa-
tion for forage, rations, and all expenses : of each hospital-sur-
geon, eighty dollars pay per month, and forty dollars per month

.Ex. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 221

in full compensation for forage, rations, and all expenses: of
eacli mate, thirty dollars pay per month, and twenty dollars per
month in full compensation for forage, rations, and all expenses :
of each steward, twenty-five dollars pay per month, and eight
dollars per month in full compensation for forage, rations, and
all expenses : Provided^ that none of the officers aforesaid shall
be entitled to any part of the pay or emoluments aforesaid, until
they shall respectively be called into actual service.

Section 7. And be it further enacted, That for the accommo-
dation of the sick of the army and navy of the United States, the
physician-general and hospital-surgeon of senior appointments,
with the approbation of the general commanding the army with-
in the district where he shall be, shall have power to provide
temporary hospitals ; and the physician-general, with the appro-
bation of the President of the IJnited States, shall have power to
provide and establish permanent hospitals.

Section 8. And be it further enacted. That all the said offi-
cers and others, shall, as touching their several offices and duties,
be liable to the rules and regulations for the government and dis-
cipline of the army ; and shall be bound to obey, in conformity
with law, and the usages and customs of armies, the orders and
directions of the chief military officers of the respective armies,
and within the respective districts, in which they shall respec-
tively serve and be.

Section 9. And be it further enacted, that the physician-gen-
eral, or in his absence, the senior medical officer, with the appro-
bation of the Commander-in-Chief, or commanding officer of a
separate army, be, and hereby is authorized and empowered, as
often as may be judged necessary, to call a medical board, which
shall consist of the three senior medical officers then present,
whose duty it shall be to examine all candidates for employment
or promotion in the hospital department, and certify to the Sec-
retary at War the qualifications of each.

222 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 42.

HAMILTON TO EIVARDI.

New-York, March 1, 1799.

Sir:

The inclosed letter will inform you, tliat the post j^ou com-
mand has been placed under my superintendence by the De-
partment of War. In consequence of this arrangement, the
returns for December last, which you forwarded to the Com-
mander-in-Chief, have been by him transmitted to me.

As my superintendence extends to all the posts on the north-
ern and northwestern quarters, I am desirous of revising the
reasons upon which they have been established, in order to be
enabled to judge, whether the present disposition ought to be
continued or altered. To this end, I am to request, that you
will, as early as may be, visit the several posts Michilimackinac,
Detroit, Fort Defiance on the Miami, and Presque Isle, together
with such intervening and proximate positions as may present
eligible military points, paying particular attention to the strait
which connects Lakes St. Clair and Erie, and to the southwest-
ern extremity of the latter lake. After doing which, you will
repair to New- York to report to me the result of your observa-
tions, and to confer on the subject at large. In this examina-
tion, you will have an eye to the various considerations of de-
fence, settlement and trade, with reference both to our British
neighbors and to the Indians. I deem it unnecessary to enter
into detail on these heads. The account I have received of your
knowledge and discernment assures me that you will execute
the commission with accurate observation and with comprehen-
sive views. At the same time you will bear in mind that it par-
ticularly suits the state and temper of this country to effect as
much as possible with the least possible expense.

With great consideration, I am, &c.

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 223

AN" ACT FOR THE BETTER ORGANIZING OF THE TROOPS OF THE
UNITED STATES AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES.

* Draft by Hamilton.

March 3d, 1799.

1. Be it enacted, &c. That the troops heretofore authorized, and
which hereafter may be authorized, to be raised, shall be com-
posed and organized as follows, to wit : A regiment of infantry
shall consist of one lieutenant-colonel commandant, two majors,
first and second, one adjutant, one quartermaster, and one pay-
master, each being a lieutenant, one surgeon, and two surgeon's
mates, ten captains, ten first and ten second lieutenants, besides the
three lieutenants before mentioned, ten cadets, two sergeant-ma-
jors, two quartermaster sergeants, two chief musicians, first and
second, twenty other musicians, forty sergeants, forty corporals,
and nine hundred and twenty privates, which, together, shall
form two battalions, each battalion of five companies. A regi-
ment of cavalry shall consist of one lieutenant-colonel command-
ant, two majors, a first and second, one adjutant, one quarter-
master, and one paymaster, each being a lieutenant; one sur-
geon, and two surgeon's mates, ten captains, ten first and ten
second lieutenants, besides the three lieutenants before mention-
ed, ten cadets, two sergeant-majors, two quartermaster-sergeants,
two chief musicians, first and second, ten other musicians, forty
sergeants, forty corporals, and nine hundred and twenty privates,
including ten saddlers, ten blacksmiths, and ten bootmakers;
which, together, shall form five squadrons, each squadron of two
companies. A regiment of artillery shall consist of one lieuten-
ant-colonel commandant, four majors, one adjutant, one quar-
master, and one paymaster, each being a lieutenant; one sur-
geon, and two surgeon's mates, sixteen captains, thirty-two
lieutenants, besides the three lieutenants before mentioned,
thirty-two cadets, four sergeant-majors, four quartermaster-ser-
geants, sixty-four sergeants, sixty-four corporals, one chief musi-
cian, ten other musicians, eight hundred and ninety-six privates,
including one hundred and twenty-eight artificers, which, toge-

224 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42

ther, sliall form four battailous, eacli battallou of four companies ;
provided, always, that the number of privates raised, and to be
raised, for the regiment of cavalry, and the regiments of Infantry
heretofore authorized, shall not exceed the number, respectively,
for which provision hath been made by law ; nor shall the bat-
talion of riflemen, nor the two additional troops of cavalry autho-
rized by this act, be raised, until further provisions shall be so
made, unless war shall break out between the United States and
some European prince, potentate, or state, in which case it shall
be lawful for the President of the United States, at his discretion,
to cause the said regiments, or any of them, to be severally com-
pleted to their full establishment.

2. That every ensign and cornet, in the regiments hereto-
fore appointed, shall be denominated hereafter second lieuten-
ants.

8. That the officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates
hereinafter mentioned, who now a e, or at any time hereafter
may be, in the actual service of the United States, shall be en-
titled to, and shall receive the following compensations, to wit :
a major-general, one hundred and sixty -six dollars per month,
and fifteen rations of provisions per day, or an equivalent in
money ; and when forage shall not be furnished by the United
States, the further sum of twenty dollars per month. A briga-
dier-general, one hundred and four dollars per month, twelve
rations per day, or an equivalent in money, and sixteen dollars
per month for forage, when not furnished as aforesaid. A lieu-
tenant-colonel commandant, seventy -five dollars per month, six
rations per day, or an equivalent in money, and twelve dollars
for forage, when not furnished as aforesaid, A major of artil-
lery, or cavalry, each fifty-five dollars per month, four rations
per day, or an equivalent in money, and ten dollars per month
for forage, when not furnished as aforesaid. A. major of infantry,
fifty dollars per month, four rations per day, or an equivalent in
money, and ten dollars per month for forage, when not furnished
as aforesaid. A captain of cavalry, forty dollars per month,
three rations per day, or an equivalent in money, and eight dol-
lars per month for forage, when not furnished as aforesaid. A

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 225

captain of artillery, and infantry, forty dollars per month, and
three rations per day, or an equivalent in money. A first lieu-
tenant of cavalry, thirty dollars per month, two rations per day,
or an equivalent in money, and six dollars per month for forage,
when not furnished as aforesaid. Lieutenants of artillery, each,
thirty dollars per month, and two rations per day, or an equiva-
lent in money. A second lieutenant of cavalry, twenty-five dol-
lars per month, two rations per day, or an equivalent in money,
and six dollars per month for forage, when not furnished as
aforesaid. A first lieutenant of infantry, thirty dollars per
month, and two rations per day, or an equivalent in mouey. A
second lieutenant of infantry, twenty-five dollars per month, and
two rations per day, or an equivalent in money. A regimental
surgeon, forty-five dollars per month, three rations per day, or
an equivalent in money, and ten dollars per month for forage,
when not furnished as aforesaid. A surgeon's mate, thirty dol-
lars per month, two rations per day, or an equivalent in money,
and six dollars per month for forage, when not furnished as
aforesaid. A regimental paymaster, quartermaster, and adju-
tant, in addition to their pay, in the line, each, ten dollars, and
six dollars per month for forage, when not furnished as afore-
said. A cadet of cavalry, ten dollars per month, two rations per
day, or an equivalent in money, and six dollars per month for
forage, when not furnished as aforesaid. All other cadets, ten
dollars per month, and two rations per day, or an equivalent in
money. A sergeant-major, and a quartermaster-sergeant, each,
ten dollars per month. A chief musician, eight dollars per
month. A sergeant, eight dollars per month. A corporal, seven
dollars per month. A musician, six dollars per month. An ar-
tificer to the infantry and artillery, a farrier, saddler, and boot
maker to the dragoons, each, ten dollars per month. A private
soldier, five dollars per month. And to each of the said non-com-
missioned officers and privates, one ration of provisions per day.
4. That all non-commissioned ofiicers, artificers, privates, and
musicians, who are, and who shall be, enlisted, and the non-
commissioned ofiicers, artificers, privates, and musicians of the
militia, or other corps, who at any time may be in the actual ser-
E • 15

226 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 42.

vice of tlie United States, shall be, and thej are hereby, exempted
during their term of service, from all personal arrests, for any
debt or contract. And whenever any non-commissioned ofl&cer,
artificer, private, or musician, shall be arrested, whether by
mesne process, or in execution, contrary to the intent hereof, it
shall be the duty of the judge of the district court of the United
States, and of any court or judge of a State, who, by the laws of
such State, are authorized to issue writs of habeas corpus, re-
spectively, on application by an officer, to grant a writ of habeas
corpus, returnable before himself; and upon due hearing and
examination, in a summary manner, to discharge the non-com-
missioned officer, artificer, private, or musician, from such arrest,
taking common bail, if required, in any case, upon mesne pro-
cess, and commit him to the applicant, or some other officer of
the same corps.

5. That each non-commissioned officer, private, artificer, and
musician, who shall hereafter be enlisted for the army of the
United States, shall be able-bodied, and of a size and age suit-
able for the public service, according to the directions which the
President of the United States shall and may establish; and
shall be entitled to a bounty of twelve dollars ; but the payment
of four dollars thereof shall be deferred, until he shall have
joined the army : And each commissioned officer, who shall be
employed in the recruiting service, shall be entitled to receive
for each non-commissioned officer, and private, and artificer, and
for each sufficient musician, duly enlisted and mustered, the sum
of two dollars, the same being in full compensation for his extra
expenses in the execution of this service.

6. That when any officer shall be detached from a regiment,
to serve as an aid to a general officer, or as assistant or other in-
spector, or as an assistant to the quartermaster-general, by what-
soever name, or as an, assistant to the adjutant-general, by what-
soever name, the place of such officer in his regiment shall be
supplied, by promotion or new appointment, or both, as may be
requisite ; but the officer detached shall, nevertheless, retain his
station in his regiment, and shall rank and rise therein, in the
. same manner as if he had not been detached.

/Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 227

7. That no officer shall be appointed as the inspector of a di-
vision, who, when appointed, shall be of a rank higher than that
of major, or as the inspector of a brigade, who, when appointed,
shall be of a rank higher than that of captain, or as the aid of
a major-general, who, when appointed, shall be of a rank higher
than that of captain, or as the aid of a brigadier-general, who,
when appointed, shall be of a rank higher than that of first lieu-
tenant, or as the quartermaster of a division, who, when appoint-
ed, shall be of a rank higher than that of captain, or as the quar-
termaster of a brigade, who, when appointed, shall be of a rank
higher than that of first lieutenant, or as an assistant to the adju-
tant-general, who, when appointed, shall be of a rank higher
than that of captain.

8. That in the ordinary arrangement of the army, two regi-
ments of infantry, or cavalry, shall constitute a brigade, and shall
be commanded by a brigadier-general ; two brigades a division,
and shall be commanded by a major-general. Provided always^
That it shall be in the discretion of the commanding general to
vary this disposition whenever he shall judge it proper; and
provided also, That this act shall not render it necessary to ap-
point any greater number of general officers than have been
heretofore authorized by law, sooner than, in the opinion of the
President, the military service of the United States shall require it .

9. That a commander of the army of the United States shall
be appointed and commissioned, by the style of "general of the
armies of the United States ;" and the present office of lieutenant-
general shall thereafter be abolished.

10. That there shall be a quartermaster-general of the army
of the United States, who shall be entitled to the rank, pay,
emoluments, and privileges of a major-general.

11. That it shall be lawful for the President of the United
States, at his discretion, to organize, officer, and raise, a battalion
of riflemen, to consist of the same number of officers and men,
and to be entitled to the same pay and emoluments, whatsoever,
as a battalion of infantry of the line.

12. That to any army of the United States, other than that
in which the quartermaster-general shall serve, there shall be a

228 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42

deputy quartermaster-general, wbo shall be a field officer, and
who, in addition to his other emoluments, shall be entitled to
fifty dollars per month, which shall be in full compensation for
his extra services and travelling expenses ; but the provisions of
this act are not to affect the present quartermaster-general of the
army of the United States, who, in case a quartermaster-general
shall be appointed by virtue of this act, is to act as deputy quar-
termaster-general, and shall hereafter have the rank of lieutenant-
colonel ; and that, to every division of an army, there shall be a
division quartermaster, who, in addition to his other emoluments,
shall be entitled to thirty dollars per month^ which shall be in
full compensation for his extra services and travelling expenses ;
and that, to every brigade, there shall be a brigade quartermas-
ter, who, in addition to his other emoluments, shall be entitled
to twenty-four dollars per month, which shall be in full compen-
sation for his extra services and travelling expenses, each of
which officers shall be chosen by the quartermaster-general, from
among the regimental officers.

13. That, to any army of the United States, other than that
in which the inspector-general shall serve, there shall be a deputy
inspector-general, who shall be a field officer, and who in addition
to his other emoluments, shall be entitled to fifty dollars per
month, which shall be in full compensation for his extra services
and travelling expenses ; and that, to every division of an army,
there shall be a division inspector, who, in addition to his other
emoluments, shall be entitled to thirty dollars per month, which
shall be in full compensation for his extra services and travelling
expenses ; and that, to every brigade, there shall be a brigade
inspector, who in addition to his other emoluments, shall be en-
titled to twenty-four dollars per month, which shall be in full
compensation for his extra services and travelling expenses;
each of which officers shall be chosen by the inspector-general,
from among the regimental officers. The deputy inspector-gene-
ral to be, in every case, approved by the general commanding
the army to which he shall be annexed.

14. That the adjutant-general of the army shall be, ex officio^
assistant inspector-general, and that every deputy inspector-gene-

^Et. 42.] . MILITARY PAPERS. 229

ral shall be, ex officio^ deputy adjutant-general, and shall perform
the duties of adjutant-general in the army to which he shall be
annexed,

15. That the paymaster-general of the armies of the United
States shall always quarter at or near the head-quarters of the
main array, or at such place as the Commander-in-Chief shall
deem proper ; and that, to the army on the western frontiers,
and to detachments from the main army, intended to act sepa-
rately for a time, he shall appoint deputy paymasters, who shall
account to him for the money advanced to them, and shall each
give a bond, in the sum of fifteen thousand dollars, with suf-
cient sureties, for the faithful discharge of their duties respective-
ly, and take an oath faithfully to execute the ditties of their offices ;
and the several regimental paymasters shall also give bond, in
the sum of five thousand dollars, with one or more sufficient
sureties, and take an oath as aforesaid, for the faithful discharge of
tlie duties of their offixes, respectively ; and that the paymaster-
general shall receive eighty dollars per month, with the rations
and forage of a major, in fall compensation for his services and
travelling expenses ; and the deputy, in addition to his pay and
other emoluments, thirty dollars per month, in fall compensation
for his extra services and travelling expenses.

16. That every major-general of the army of the United
States shall be entitled to two aids, to be chosen by himself,
each of whom, in addition to his pay and other emoluments in
his regiment, shall receive twenty -foar dollars per month, and
ten dollars per month for forage, when not furnished as afore-
said ; and that every brigadier-general of the said army shall be
entitled to one aid, to be chosen by himself, who, in addition to
his pay and other emoluments in his regiment, shall receive
twenty-four dollars per month, and ten dollars per month for
forage, \vhen not furnished as aforesaid.

17. That the President of the United States be authorized to
engage and appoint, distinct from the officers of the corps of
artillerists and engineers, two engineers, with the rank of lieu-
tenant-colonel, and to stipulate and allow to them, respectively,
such compensations as he shall find necessary and expedient.

230 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 42.

18. That an inspector of fortifications shall be appointed,
whose duties shall be assigned bj the Secretary of War, nnder
the direction of the President of the United States ; that the com-
pensation to be allowed to the said inspector, if selected from the
corps of artillerists and engineers, in full for his extra services
and travelling expenses, shall, besides his pay and emoluments
in the corps, be thirty-five dollars per month ; and if he shall
not be an ofiicer in the artillery or army, he shall, in full com-
pensation for his services and expenses, be allowed the sum of
seventy-five dollars monthly, and be entitled to the rank of
major in the army of the United States ; and in case the said
inspector shall be chosen from the corps of artillerists and engi-
neers, or army of the United States, his place therein shall be
supplied by promotion, or a new appointment, or both, as may
be requisite ; but he shall, nevertheless, retain his station in the
said corps or army, and shall rank and rise therein, in the same
manner as if he had never been appointed to the said ofiice of
inspector.

19. That a ration of provisions shall henceforth consist of
eighteen ounces of bread or flour, or, when neither can be ob-
tained, of one quart of rice, or one and a half pound of sifted or
bolted Indian meal, one pound and a quarter of fresh beef, or
one pound of salted beef, or three-quarters of a pound of salted
pork ; and, when fresh meat is issued, salt, at the rate of two
quarts for every hundred rations ; soap, at the rate of four
pounds, and candles, at the rate of a pound and half for every
hundred rations. Provided always^ That there shall be no dimi-
nution of the ration to which any of the troops now in service
may be entitled by the terms of their enlistment.

20. That every non-commissioned officer, private, artificer,
and musician, of the artillery and infantry, shall receive, annu-
ally, the following articles of uniform clothing, to wit : one hat,
one coat, one vest, two pair of woollen and two pair of linen over-
alls, four pair of shoes, four shirts, four pair of socks, one blanket,
one stock and clasp, and one pair of buckles.

21. That suitable clothing be provided for the dragoons,
adapted to the nature of the service, and conformed, as near as

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 231

may be, to the value of the clothing allowed to the infantry and
artillery.

22. That it shall be lawful for the Commander-in-Chief of
the army, or the commanding officer of any separate detachment
or garrison thereof, at his discretion, to cause to be issued, from
time to time, to the troops under his command, out of such
supplies as shall have been provided for the purpose, rum, whis-
key, or other ardent spirits, in quantities not exceeding half a
gill to each man per day, excepting in cases of fatigue service,
or other extraordinary occasions ; and that whensoever supplies
thereof shall be on hand, there shall be issued to the troops
vinegar, at the rate of two quarts for every hundred rations.

23. That it shall be lawful for the commanding officer of
each regiment, whenever it may be necessary, to cause the coats,
vests, and overalls or breeches, which may, from time to time,
be issued to and for his regiment, to be altered and new made,
so as the better to fit them to the persons, respectively, for whose
use they shall be delivered ; and for defraying the expense of
such alteration, to cause to be deducted and applied, out of the
pay of such persons, a sum or sums not exceeding twenty-five
cents for each coat, eight cents for each vest and for each pair of
overalls or breeches.

24. That it shall be lawful for the Secretary of War to cause
to be provided, in each and every year, all clothing, camp uten-
sils, and equipage, medicines, and hospital stores, necessary for
the troops and armies of the United States, for the succeeding
year, and for this purpose to make purchases, and enter, or cause
to be entered into, all necessary contracts or obligations for
effecting the same.

25. That whenever any officer or soldier shall be discharged
from the service, except by way of punishment for an offence, he
shall be allowed his pay and rations, or an equivalent in money,
for such term of time as shall be sufficient to travel from the place
where he receives his discharge to the place of his residence,
computing at the rate of twenty miles to a day.

26. That there shall be allowed to the inspector-general, in
addition to his allowance as major-general, and in full compen-

232 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

sation for extra services and expenses in the execution of his
office, the sum of fifty dollars per month, and that he shall be
allowed a secretary, to be appointed by himself, with the pay
and emoluments of a captain.
Approved, March 3, 1799.

HAMILTON" TO

1799.

You are already apprised that the contractors are to furnisb
the means of transportation by land and water. If you find this
plan marked with a spirit of economy, you must recollect that a
strict attention to economy is not less necessary to the true in-
terests of the officers than to that of the country. So great is the
unavoidable expense of every military establishment (greater in
proportion in our country than any other), that unless all the
savings are made which can consist with propriety, it will be im-
possible for the government to maintain the force requisite for
security, or to make and continue those provisions which are
really essential to the comfort and respectability of the army.
These ideas are so important, that they cannot be too deeply im-
pressed upon the minds of officers.

Yet, if any thing more than is contemplated by this letter
shall be necessary to a reasonable accommodation of the troops,
suggestions to that end will be received and carefully examined.

HAMILTON TO PINCKNEY.

New-York, March 7, 1799.

Sir:

The Secretary at "War has informed you that the general su-
perintendence of the recruiting service is confided to me, as an
incident to the inspectorship.

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 233

As a preliminary to this, it is requisite to distribute the States
respectively into districts and sub-districts ; the latter to corres-
pond with the number of companies to be raised in each State,
assigning one company to each sub-district ; and the former to be
proportioned to the number of field-officers.

I request the favor of you, as speedily as may be, to make
the distribution for the States of Georgia and the two Carolinas,
and to communicate to me the result.

I have been told that the commencement of the recruiting
service depended on the completion of an adequate supply of
clothing, and I ought to calculate that this is nearly ready.

Perhaps it may promote expedition to transmit me suc-
cessively the arrangement for each State as it shall be com-
pleted.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, March 14th, 1799.

Sir:

' I have the honor to send you the extract of a letter of the
8th instant (received two days since) from the Secretary of War,
together with the section of the act to which it relates.

I am entirely of opinion with him as to the expediency of
causing the Paymaster-General to reside at the seat of govern-
ment ; but, as the measure is of importance, and especially as the
act expressly refers the point to the " Commander-in-Chief," I did
not think myself at liberty to act without your previous decision.

I request instruction on the point as soon as shall be conve-
nient, unless you shall think it proper to give yourself the neces-
sary orders to the Paymaster-General.

With perfect respect and attachment, &c.

234 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, March 15, 1799.

Sir:

I liave digested some alterations in and additions to the re-
cruiting instructions, -wliicTi I now send for consideration and
decision.

The nature of each will announce its motive, so as to render
little comment necesssary.

A few remarks will be seen in the margin of some of the
clauses.

I shall be glad of a determination as soon as may be, in order
to the transmission of the instructions, that they may be con-
sidered and understood ; so that the officers may be ready to act
the moment orders shall be given to begin to recruit.

P. S. I agree entirely in the opinion expressed in your letter
of the 8th instant (which was delayed in its transmission), respect-
ing the residence of the Paymaster-General ; but, as the act ex-
pressly requires the intervention of the " Commander-in-Chief,"
I have thought it right to ask the orders of General Washington.
I hope this will appear to you in the same light.

HAMILTON TO M HENRY.

New-York, March 16, 1799.

Sir:

Though I have not as yet complete materials for arranging
all the States into districts and sub-districts, I now submit to you
an arrangement of some of them, in order that the recruiting ser-
vice may begin in these when you deem other things suffi-
ciently mature to commence it. There occurs no important rea-
son why it should not be successively undertaken. On the

iET. 42.] MILITARY TAPERS. 235

contrary, so far as I have tlie means of judging, I slionld con-
clude that it would be expedient to begin partially, and extend
as the provision of supplies extends. An arrangement will now
be submitted for the States of Connecticut, New York, New Jer-
sey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware. But, if necessary, I am pre-
pared to offer what may answer the end for the other States,
except the three most southern, and Kentucky and Tennessee.
A plan for the two Carolinas and Georgia has been asked of
General Pinckney, but there has not been time to obtain his re-
ply. If the business were otherwise prepared, there could be no
inconvenience in referring it to him to make the distribution de-
finitively. The arrangement for Tennessee and Kentucky may
also be referred to persons on the spot.

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

March 18th, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your letter*of the 15th instant, with altera-
tions and additions proposed to be made to the recruiting instruc-
tions. These have been considered, generally adopted, and with
some further alterations will be put into the hands of a printer
to-day, and a sufficient number of copies sent you as soon as they
shall be printed.

HAMILTON TO M<^HENRY.

(private.)

New-York, March 18, 1799.

Beware, my dear sir, of magnifying a riot into an insurrec-
tion, by employing in the first instance an inadequate force.
'Tis better far to err on the other side. Whenever the govern-

236 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

ment appears in arms, it ought to appear like a Hercules, and
inspire respect by the display of strength. The consideration of
expense is of no moment compared with the advantages of energy.
'Tis true, this is always a relative question, but 'tis always impor-
tant to make no mistake. I only offer a principle and a caution.

A large corps of auxiliary cavalry may be had in Jersey, New-
York, Delaware, Maryland, without interfering with farming
pursuits.

Will it be inexpedient to put under marching orders a large
force provisionally as an eventual support of the corps to be
employed to awe the disaffected ? Let all be well considered.

Yours truly.

HAMILTON TO M^'HENRY.
(private.)

9 New-York, March 19th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I understand that the ofl&cers for Connecticut have been
appointed and their names published, but I have seen no paper
containing them. If so, be so good as to send me the list, and if
there have been other appointments since the lists transmitted to
me, pray let them be added.

Pursuant to your very proper idea of having at the seat of
government the chief of different departments, it seems to me
advisable that you should have some agent for the commissariat
ov provision branch, to whom applications may be addressed, and
from whom orders may issue to the different contractors or sub-
agents.

Did those provisions of the " act for organizing," &c., which
declare that the Adjutant-General shall be ex officio Deputy In-
spector-General, and which allow the Inspector-General a secre-
tary, continue in the bill when passed ? Is there any arrange-

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 237

ment which prevents me from calling for the assistance of the
Adjutant-General when I deem it necessary ?

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 25th March, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the l-ith instant with its inclosures, came to
hand by the last post.

In the present state of the army, (or more properly the
embryo of one, for I do not perceive, from any thing that has
come to my knowledge, that we are likely to move beyond this,)
and until the augmented force shall have been recruited, assem-
bled, and in the field, the residence of the Paymaster-General
(I did not know there was one until your letter announced it),
will be found most eligible at the seat of the general govern-
ment ; and you will please to give such orders respecting it, as
you shall think proper, for I am unwilling to issue any.

Under this cover you will find a letter which I have just re-
ceived from Colonel Hamtranck, with a short acknowledgment
of its receipt ; which you will be go good as to forward with
your dispatches for the western army. With very great esteem
and regard, I am, dear sir, &c.

M'^PHEESON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 25, 1799.

Dear Sir :

I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
of the 22d, on the subject of the insurrection in this State, and
should have replied immediately, but knowing that I was to

238 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

receive mj instructions from the War Office on this day, I
thought it best to wait. The fact is, sir, that in the counties of
Northampton, Berks, Montgomery, and part of Bucks, the people
have manifested the strongest determination to oppose the laws,
by openly, and with a military force, rescuing from the marshal
a number of prisoners. I say military force, for they were
headed by officers who are commissioned under the State, and
were completely armed and equipped ; it is also certain that, in
addition to the party that effected the rescue, several detach-
ments were on their march to accomplish the same purpose, when
hearing that the business was done, they retired. In short the
people of the before-mentioned counties seem ripe for any thing,
and I am sorry to add, very strong indications of a similar dispo-
sition have appeared in the county of Northumberland; and
although it is not likely that they have as yet any systematic
mode of operation, it however appears to be a very dangerous
combination, and that the most energetic conduct on the part of
the administration is absolutely indispensable. How far the
Executive accord with my sentiments you will judge when I
have this day received orders to march as soon as the force can
be collected, with 240 horse (to use the Secretary's expression),
to the theatre of insurrection. My supporting parties are the
detachments under Captain Henry, who has arrived at Newton,
in the county of Bucks, and two companies of artillerists, who
are ordered to rendezvous at Reading, in the county of Berks ;
the two most opposite points the Secretary could have hit on, and
which I cannot correct unless I oblige the party at Reading to
take a very circuitous route, or march them through the heart of
the disaffected country — which I should not from the smallness
of their number be justified in doing. I have, therefore, deter-
mined to leave them at that point, and shall to-morrow send
orders to Captain Henry to move across the county of Bucks by
a course I shall point out, which will be perfectly safe, until he
comes in contact with my route, when I shall take post some-
where in the neighborhood of Bethlehem, and use my best
endeavors to accomplish the purpose of my command. I confess
I could have wished a different mode of operation had been

iEx. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 239

adopted, and which I am convinced would have made a more
serious and lasting impression than my scampering through the
country with a few horse. My plan would have been to march
the volunteer infantry of this city, who, with Captain Henry's
detachment, would have given me a sufficient force to take any
post in the disaffected country, from which I could make ex-
cursions with my horse in every proper direction. But the
Secretary thinks otherwise, and I shall obey.

I shall from time to time give you information of my progress,
and of every important occurrence.
I am with great regard,

Most truly yours.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, March 27th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

At length we are on the point of commencing the recruiting
service in five of the States, Connecticut, New-York, New Jer-
sey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware. It is hoped, that it will not
be long in successfully embracing the others, where officers have
been appointed. But in our affairs, till a thing is actually be-
gun, there is no calculating the delays which may ensue.

You have been informed that the recruiting service has been
put under my directions ; but for many matters of detail, I must
go to the Secretary for a sanction, and it is not always that it is
rapidly obtained. Things however are at last getting into such
a state, that the business may be expected to progress without
interruption.

The letter some time since sent you for General Lee, was in-
tended to be left open. It respected the division of Virginia into
four districts, and twenty sub-districts, or company rendezvouses,
designating a place in each for the bead-quarters of the rendez-

240 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

vous. I have as yet had no acknowledgment of it.' Before
General Morgan left Philadelphia, I got him to give me a plan.
Inclosed is a copy. If you think a better arrangement can be
made, shall I ask the favor of you to have it done ? for I cannot
now rely on the success of my resort to General Lee in any rea-
sonable time.

Will you have the goodness to put the letters herewith in a
train to reach their destination with certainty ? They are open,
that you may perceive their object.

Yery respectfully and affectionately,
I have the honor to be, &c.

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

March 29th, 1799.

The regular troops ordered to the scene of insurrection have
all reached their first points of destination, except the company
from this place, which is to march when ordered by General
McPherson. The General received his instructions on Monday
last ; and every thing dependent on me has been done which re-
gards the expedition. It seems that the adjutant-general for this
State has not yet been able to furnish him with certain necessary
returns. Is it not remarkable that however slightly the j)resent
governor of Pennsylvania comes in contact with insurrection,
that delay becomes unavoidable in quelling it ?

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, April 3d, 1799.

Dear Sir :

Agreeably to your letter of the 25th of March, which, with its
inclosures have duly come to hand, I have written to the Pay-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 241

master-General to repair to the seat of government. Your letter
to Colonel Hamtranck goes by the same opportunity.

The arrangements for beginning to recruit in the States of
Connecticut, New-York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Dela-
ware are so mature, that it will be very extraordinary if the
business does not actually commence in a week.

Nothing in my power will be omitted to press it forward in
the other States. The prospect of success in the Middle and
Northern States is not bad.

I get nothing very precise about the insurrection. But every
thing continues to wear the character of feebleness in respect to
the measures for suppressing it ; and though I hope it will not
become very serious, yet it will not be astonishing if, from mis-
management, it should become more troublesome than it need '
to be.

With greatest respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, April 8, 1799.

Sir:

Nothing can be more desirable than a well-digested plan for
connecting the different parts of our military system, in regard to
the procuring and issuing of supplies. I send you the outline of
a scheme for that purpose. It is important that this, or a substi-
tute more eligible, should be without delay established. It is
particularly essential, that the channels through which supplies
are to pass to the troops, and the mode of application for them,
should be designated and understood. The plan now transmitted,
embraces this among other objects. I beg leave to urge a speedy
attention to the subject.

With great respect and consideration,

I have the honor to be, &c.
242 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

Plan for the providing and issuing of Military Supplies,

The business of providing shall constitute one distinct branch
of service ; that of issuing, another.

The Purveyor shall be charged with the procuring of all sup-
plies, except those for which contracts are made directly by the
chiefs of the Treasury or War Departments.

The Superintendent of Military Stores shall superintend the
issues of all supplies.

The Purveyor shall have near him three assistants, by what-
soever denominations ; one, in relation to the supplies, which, ac-
cording to past practice, fall within the department of Quarter-
master-General, including the means of transportation ; another,
in relation to the supplies, which, according to past practice, fall
within the department of Commissary of Provisions, with the ad-
dition of medical and hospital stores ; a third, in relation to the
supplies, which, according to past practice, fall within the de-
partment of Commissary of Military Stores, with the addition of
■clothing. The person who now resides at the seat of govern-
ment, in quality of Quartermaster-General, may perform the duty
of the first-mentioned assistant.

The Superintendent of Military Stores shall have near him
three principal clerks, each of whom particularly to superintend
the issues in one of the above-mentioned branches, aided by as
many storekeepers as may be necessary.

The Purveyor shall have with each army a deputy, to be
charged with the procuring of all supplies necessary to be pro-
cured with the army.

The Superintendent shall have with each army a deputy, who
shall have under him three assistants; one, to superintend the
issues of Quartermaster's stores ; another, to superintend the issues
of provisions ; a third, to superintend the issues of other military
stores and clothing.

The Purveyor and his deputies shall deliver over all that
they provide to the Superintendent and his deputies. The actual
'Custody and issuing of articles to be with the storekeepers, pur-

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 243

suant to the written orders of the Superintendent and his
deputies.

The Quartermaster-General, with the main army, and the
Deputy Quartermaster-General, with each separate army, shall
have the superintendence of the deputies of the Purveyor, with
the respective armies ; to see that they do their duty according to
their instructions from the heads of their respective branches and
the order of the commander of the army.

The Inspector-General with the main army, and the deputy
Inspector- General with each separate army, shall have a like
charge of the deputies of the Superintendent of Military Stores.

These officers to serve as checks upon the respective depu-
ties, and points of union between the military and civil au-
thorities.

The Paymaster-General shall reside at the seat of govern-
ment, and be the fountain of all issues of money for the pay,
bounty, &c., of the troops. He shall have a deputy with each
army, who shall be charged with the issuing of all moneys to the
Regimental Paymasters.

The Quartermaster of each division shall be charged with the
procuring of all supplies, which may be occasionally necessary
for such division, in addition to the general supplies.

The Quartermaster of each brigade shall be charged with the
like duty, when the brigade is detached only ; and always with
the superintendence of the issues for such brigade, and conse-
quently with the direction of all brigade officers having the cus-
tody of supplies.

Each brigade shall have a Commissary of Forage, and another
of Provisions ; to be charged respectively with the issues of those
articles.

The Regimental Quartermaster shall receive and issue all
supplies for the regiment, except of money and clothing.

The Regimental Paymaster shall issue moneys for the recruit-
ing service to the company officers charged with that service,
pursuant to warrants from the commanding officer of the regi-
ment, or from the superintending officer of the recruiting service
for such regiment, taking from each an accountable receipt.

244 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

Whenever it is practicable, he will himself pay the officers,
non-commissioned officers, and privates of his regiment, individu-
ally; when, by reason of distant detachments, this cannot be
done, he will deliver the money to the officers commanding com-
panies, or to the officers commanding parts of companies, at sta-
tions too distant for the agency of the commanders of companies ;
taking from each an accountable receipt. The money must, in
each case, be paid and issued, pursuant to pay rolls signed by
such commanding officers; and, wherever it is practicable, ac-
companied by the warrants of the commanding officers of the
regiments, or of battalions when detached.

For all moneys which shall be issued to officers, to be dis-
bursed by them, they shall account monthly with the Regimental
Paymaster, producing to him the requisite vouchers. Upon
every such accounting, he shall give a certificate of the substance
thereof to the officers Avith whom such accounting shall be, speci-
fying therein the vouchers which shall have been produced and
left with him. This accounting shall be provisional only, and
liable to the revision and control of the proper officer of the War
Department, to whom the accounts and vouchers must be for-
warded.

The same regulations, as nearly as the subject will admit,
shall be observed in respect to the issuing of clothing and other
articles (provisions excepted), which shall be issued to the non-
commissioned officers and soldiers, and in respect to the account-
ing for the same.

Every receipt for pay, bounty, or other matter, from a non-
commissioned officer or private who cannot write, shall be certi-
fied by a commissioned officer, who, wherever it shall be prac-
ticable, shall be other than the person for whom it is to serve as
a voucher.

All documents or returns, upon which issues of money or
other articles are to be made, must be countersigned by the chief
officer of the regiment or other particular corps for which the
same is to be issued.

The accounts of Regimental Paymasters and Quartermasters
shall, previous to their transmission to the War Department, be

Mt.4'2.] military papers.
presented to the commanders of regiments, or of battalions when
detached, and to the persons from whom respectively they shall
have received the objects for which they are accountable, who
shall summarily examine them, and certify their opinion re-
spectively.

The above regulations shall apply to all persons who may act
as substitutes for the officers to whom they relate.

All returns and requisitions for obtaining supplies from the
Department of War, shall go from the Deputy Superintendent of
Military Stores with each army to the said Superintendent.

Estimates of supplies shall be reported by the Deputy Quar-
termaster-General with each army to the commander of such
army, and shall be by him transmitted to the Secretary of War,
with his opinion.

Each deputy shall send a duplicate of every estimate to the
Quartermaster-General, who shall report to the Commander-in-
Chief general estimates for all the troops of the United States, il-
lustrated by the particular estimates, which general estimates
shall be transmitted by the Commander-in-Chief to the Secretary
of War. with his opinion.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Mount Vernon, April 10th, 1799.

My dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 27th ult., inclosing a de-
sign of dividing the State of Virginia into divisions and sub-
divisions for the head-quarters of the rendezvouses in each,
asking my opinion of the proper distribution of them, for the
convenience of the recruiting service.

The grand division of the State I conceive to be well allotted,
and, with the following alterations, the subdivision of it may be
so likewise ; but of the latter, I can speak with no precision, be-

246 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42.

cause of the number of new counties wliicb liave been estab-
lished, the situation of which I know not, and even the names of
some were unknown to me before.

The alterations I propose, are as follow :

1st. To make Hobb's Hole, instead of the Boiling Green, the
8th rendezvous (referring to the plan you sent me), because, as
you will perceive by the map of Virginia, Caroline county is
the uppermost in that sub-district, and the Boiling Green lies at
the upper corner of the said county.

2d. Let Fairfax and Loudon counties (which were formerly
one) form a subdivision in place of Fairfax and Fauquier, which
are separated by other counties. Alexandria or Leesburgh may
be the head-quarters of that rendezvous. The first is (compara-
tively) large and populous, and on navigation ; the other is 40
miles above navigation, and a small village ; both are healthy,,
and well supplied with provisions, &c.

8d. Prince William and Fauquier ought to be annexed, in-
stead of Prince William and Loudon, which join at the extreme
corners only. Dumfries in Prince William or Fauquier Court
House might be the rendezvous. The first is on navigation ; the
latter, 40 miles above, and more central.

4th. Yorktown is more in the centre of the 6th subdivision
than Wiliiamsburgh ; and,

5th. Northumberland Court House is too low for the 9tb
subdivision ; either Westmoreland or Eichmond Court Houses^
in point of centrality, would be more eligible.

General Lee's absence from home, canvassing for the ensuing
election of representatives to Congress, and an indisposition with
which he has (as I have lately heard) been seized^ has been, I
presume, the cause of your not having received an answer to
your letter ; for I am certain Mr. Bushrod Washington would
have left it at his house as he returned home, agreeably to his
promise to me.

Your letters to Colonels Parker and Bently I have forwarded!
by the post — the first, under cover to General Morgan, to whom
Parker is a neighbor ; the other, to Colonel Carrington, who will
be able to give it a safe conveyance to Eichmond — to the post-
ofhce in which it must have proceeded^

iET. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 247

Not an officer in this State (that lias come to my knowledge)
has yet received his commission, to the great dissatisfaction of
all, and relinquishment of many, who would no longer remain
in a state of suspense and idleness.
With great truth,

I remain.

My dear Sir,

Your affectionate humble servant,

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WILKINSON.

April 15th, 1799'.
April 20th, 1799.
April 25th, 1799.
May 24th, 1799.

General Hamilton presents his compliments to General Wil-
kinson, and sends him at foot, heads for conversations which it
is proposed to have, in order to call the attention of G. W. to
the several points. Most of them have, no doubt, been topics of
communication with the War Department, but the freedom and
particularity of conversation will yield additional lights, and
lead perhaps to a correct system for the management of our
Western affairs in their various relations.

Objects.

1. The disposition of our Western inhabitants towards the
United States and foreign powers.

2. The disposition of the Indians in the same aspect.

3. The disposition of the Spaniards in our vicinity — their
strength in number and fortification.

4. The best expedients for correcting or contracting hostile
propensities in any or all these quarters, including,

5. The best defensive disposition of the Western army, em-

248 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 42.

bracing the country of Tennessee and the northern and north-
western lakes, and having an eye to economy and discipline.

6. The best mode (in the event of a mpture ivith Spain) of
attacking the two Floridas. Troops, artillery, &c., requisite.

7. The best plan of supplying the Western army with pro-
vision, transportation, forage, &c.

8. The best arrangement of command, so as to unite facility
of communication with the seaboard, and the proper combina-
tion of all the parts under the General commanding the Western
army.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, April 17th, 1799.

Sir:

Your letters of the 15th and 16th are duly come to hand ;
that for Lieutenant Leonard, with the money, will be forwarded
without delay.

To-morrow I shall leave this place for Philadelphia. Sev-
eral things will best be settled by personal conference, which
in future will be mutually convenient, and will promote the
service.

With great respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO WALBACH.

New-York, April 17th, 1799.

Sir:

My object is to see exemplified the elementary evolution of
the cavalry, according to the systems of Prussia, France, and
Great Britain, in order to compare them with each other, and
select the best. For this purpose, I wished you to instruct

Mt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 249

in those different evolutions a troop of volunteer liorse, com-
manded by Captain Giles. I have spoken to this officer on the
subject, and I wish you to see him, and concert a plan to fulfil
the above purpose.

You will clearly understand, that I do not wish to extend
your attention to the more complicated movements, but to the
simple formation into columns, and display in line.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

Philadelphia, April 20th, 1799.

Sir:

Inclosed are the proceedings of a General Court Martial, of
which Major Wilcocks is President. All the sentences except that
of Richard Hunt have been approved, and directed to be
executed. The corporal punishment in the case of Goldsberg, is
remitted agreeably to the recommendation of the court. You
will observe that the pay due to each of the offenders is forfeited.

As I do not conceive the United States to be now at war, in
the legal import of that term, (which I construe to be a state not
of partial but of general hostility,) I considered it as beyond my
power to approve or execute such sentences as by the articles of
war are referred to the President in time of peace. But while I
think it my duty on this ground to transmit the sentence with-
out acting upon it, I feel myself called upon by a profound con-
viction of the necessity of some severe examples to check a
spirit of desertion which, for want of them in time past, has
become too prevalent, and to respectfully declare my opinion
that the confirmation and execution of the sentence are of mate-
rial consequence to the prosperous course of the military service.
The crime of desertion is in this instance aggravated by the con-
dition of the offender, who is a sergeant, and by the breach of
trust, in purloining the money which was in his hands for the
pay of his company.

250 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

Philadelphia, April 23, 1799.

Sir:

Upon a careful inspection of tlie articles of war, I entertain
doubts, whether I can act upon, by approving or disapproving
sentences of courts martial, referred to me from the Department
of War in cases in which the courts have been instituted by that
department through organs other than myself.

As there is peculiar delicacy in inflicting punishment upon
questionable authority, I shall be glad to be exempted from the
embarrassment, which references of the above-mentioned kind
will occasion.*

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

(Private.)

War Department, 23d April, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I wish you to state to me, 1st. The rule which in your opinion
will be the least exceptionable, whereby to determine the rela-
tive rank of the field officers of the new regiments and the
reasons for preferring the rule. 2d. Whether any objections
have occurred to you, which ought to induce any alteration in
the general rules of promotion suggested by the general officers
in the Commander-in-Chief's letter, dated the 13th December,
viz., " That all the officers shall rise in the regiments to which
they respectively belong up to the rank of major, inclusively,
that afterwards they shall rise in the line of the army at large,
with the limitation, however, that the officers of artillery, cavalry,

* I have written personally to Col. Strong to abstain from the execution of
martial law at Detroit till further orders, as I desire maturely to reflect on the sub-
ject before a definite step.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 251

and infantry shall be confined to their respective corps, until
they shall attain the rank of colonel."

HAMILTON TO M^'HENRY.

Philadelphia, April 26th, 1799.

Sir:

It being urgent that the two regiments of artillery should be
organized into companies, and disposed of to the several destina-
tions which you have contemplated, the result is, that a very in-
convenient delay would attend the making of that arrangement'
in concert with General Pinckney, as suggested in your late let-
ter. As, likewise, this arrangement is a mere matter of organi-
zation, the distribution of force having been previously deter-
mined upon, it is presumed there will not appear, on further
consideration, any sufficient motive for incurring the delay of
such a concert ; and that you will think it preferable, by the in-
tervention of your agency, to settle the arrangement, and commu-
nicate it for execution to the two major-generals.

In this expectation, I beg leave to submit to you the plan of
such an arrangement. The result will be seen in the paper here-
with transmitted.

A preliminary basis, in conformity with the rule by which
the twelve regiments have been numbered, is on the seaboard to
give the right to the first regiment, the left to the second. This,
as it happens, will occasion the least possible dislocation of the
companies from the present stations.

You will perceive that a battalion of the first regiment is left
to the western army ; and it so turns out that the number of offi-
cers in that quarter corresponds.

Another battalion of the same regiment is assigned to the
posts in Georgia and South Carolina, and a third to the posts in
North Carolina, Virginia, and Maryland.

The fourth will remain for the troops in the field, and may

252 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^x. 42.

be annexed to tliat part of the army under tlie command of Gene-
ral Pinckney.

One battalion of the second regiment is assigned to the posts
in Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and New- York.

Another to the States eastward and northward of New -York.

The third is reserved for the field, and will naturally form a
part of my command.

The -fourth battalion of this regiment not being yet raised,
it of course cannot be comprehended in an immediate disposition.

In the association of officers for the companies, I have availed
myself of all the indications which I was able to discover of their
actual relations. But it may happen when situations and charac-
ters are better ascertained, that some alterations may promote
personal harmony, and benefit the service. It is therefore desi-
rable, that the adoption by you may be qualified by a view to
further information, to be obtained through the field officers, and
to eventual changes.

There were no indications to regulate the association of the
officers with the western army. It is consequently proposed to
refer this to Colonel Burbeck.

When you shall have approved the plan now presented, or
with such alterations as you may judge advisable, it will only
remain to communicate your determination to the two Major-
Generals, who will concert its prompt execution.

It is extremely to be wished that a commandant of the second
regiment may without delay be appointed. You are sensible how
much in the first stages of a military corps the want of the proper
chief must impede the establishment of order and discipline.

M HENRY TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

War Department, Ai)ril, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I have occasionally thought of the plan for providing and
issuing military supplies, submitted in your letter of the 8th in-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 253

stant. It strikes me that the additional assistants to the purveyor
and superintendent of military stores which it proposes, will tend
to facilitate both purchases and deliveries ; and the powers as-
signed to the inspector-general, and deputy inspector-general, and
quartermaster and deputy quartermaster-general with a separate
army over the deputies of the purveyors and superintendent
with the respective armies, to the discovery and correction of
abuses. The details of the business enjoined upon these officers,
are similar to those under a former establishment. There was
always with the main branch of the revolutionary army, the
quartermaster-general, commissary- general of issues and pur-
chases of provisions, the field commissary of military stores, and
deputy paymaster, whose duties were nearly the same as speci-
fied in the plan. So far, therefore, the plan is founded upon ex-
perience.

The rest of the plan appears to correspond with general prac-
tice and the arrangements suggested by an act of the 3d day of
March, and the position and duties you have concurred in with
respect to the paymaster-general.

I shall request Mr. Wolcott to consider the whole, when I
shall take it up for a final determination.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

(private.)

New-York, May 3d, 1799.

Dear Sir:

At length the recruiting for the additional regiments has
begun in Connecticut^ New-York^ New Jersey^ Pennsylvania^ and
Delaware. The inclosed return of clothing will sufiiciently ex-
plain to you that it has at least commenced as soon as the prepa-
rations by the Department of "War would permit. It might now
also proceed in Maryland and Massachusetts, and the next post
will, I trust, enable me to add Yirginia, but that I do not think

254 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ' [^Et. 42.

it expedient to outgo our supply of clotliing. It will have the
worst possible effect, if the recruits are to wait a length of time
for their clothing.

I anticipate your mortification at such a state of things.
Various causes are supposed to contribute to it.

It is said, that the President has heretofore not thought it of
importance to accelerate the raising of the army, and it is well
understood that the Secretary of the Treasury is not convinced
of its utility. Yet he affirms, that for a long time past he has
been ready and willing to give every aid depending on his
department.

The Secretary of War imputes the deficiency in the article of
clothing to a failure of a contract which he had made, and to the
difficulty of suddenly finding a substitute by purchases in the
market. It is therefore obvious, that the means which have
since been pursued have not been the best calculated for dis-
patch. The materials procured at distant places have been
brought to Philadelphia to be made up. They are stated to be
adequate in quantity.

You will observe that six are numbered 1. This applies to
a regiment in the western country. I proposed to the Secretary
to change the buttons. It has not been done.

Yet, if the Secretary's energies for execution were equal to
his good dispositions, the public service under his care would
prosper as much as could be desired. It is only to be regretted
that good dispositions will not alone suffice, and that, in the na-
ture of things, there can be no reliance that the future progress
will be more satisfactory than the past.

Means, I trust sufficient, have been taken to procure from
Europe a supply of clothing for the next year, and the Secretary
has assured me, that he would immediately take measures for
procuring a supply for the succeeding year.

As to other supplies, I believe things are in tolerable train,
and that there is a certainty of the most essential articles in due
abundance.

The officers for North Carolina have been appointed. No
nominations have come forward from South Carolina.

Mr. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 255

Not a single field-officer has yet been appointed for the regi-
ment to be raised in New Hampshire, Vermont, and Ehode
Island. It seems the members of Congress dissuaded from the
nomination of those who were proposed by the General officers,
and promised to recommend preferable characters; but this
promise has not yet been performed. This want of organiza-
tion is an obstacle to the progress of the affairs of this regi-
ment.

It is understood that the President has resolved to appoint
the officers to the provisional army, and that the Secretary
has thought fit to charge the Senators of each State with the
designation of characters.

With the truest respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, May 3d, 1799.

Sir:

After mature reflection on the subject of your letter of the
26th of last month, I am clearly of opinion that the President
has no power to make, alone, the appointment of officers to the
battalion which is to be added to the second regiment of artil-
lerists and engineers.

In my opinion, ^^ vacancy" is a relative term, and presupposes
that the office has been once filled. If so, the power to fill a
vacancy is not the power to make an original appointment.
The terms " which may have happened," serve to confirm this
construction. They imply casualty, and denote such offices as,
having been once filled, have become vacant by accidental cir-
cumstances. This, at least, is the most familiar and obvious
sense, and, in a matter of this kind, it could not be advisable to
exercise a doubtful authority.

It is clear that, independent of the authority of a special law,

256 HAMILTON'S WORKS. * [tEt. 42.

tlie President cannot fill a vacancy which happens during a ses-
sion of the Senate.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENEY.

New-York, May 18th, 1799.

Sir:

It is urgent that arms for the troops to be raised be at the
regimental rendezvous as speedily as possible.

Military pride is to be excited and kept up by military
parade. No time ought to be lost in teaching the recruits the
use of arms. Guards are necessary as soon as there are soldiers,
and these require arms.

When I came to see the hats furnished for the 12th regiment,
I was disappointed and distressed.

The Commander-in-Chief recommended cocked hats. This
always means, hats cocked on three sides. I was assured that
cocked hats were provided. I repeated the assurance to the
officers. But the hats received are only capable of being cocked
on one side, and the brim is otherwise so narrow, as to consult
neither good appearance nor utility. They are also without
cockades and loops.

Nothing is more necessary than to stimulate the vanity of
soldiers. To this end, a smart dress is essential. When not at- i
tended to, the soldier is exposed to ridicule and humiliation. If •■
the articles promised to him are defective in quality or appear-
ance, he becomes dissatisfied, and the necessity of excusing the
public delinquency towards him, is a serious bar to the enforce-
ment of discipline. The government of the country is not now
in the indigent situation in which it was during our revolution-
ary war. It possesses, amply, the means of placing its military
on a respectable footing, and its dignity and its interest equally
require that it shall act in conformity with this situation. This
course is indeed indispensable, if a faithful, zealous, and well

jEt. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 257

regulated army is thought necessary to the security or defence
of the country.

HAMILTON TO HAMTRANCK.

New-York, May 2.3d, 1799.

Sir:

* * * You are aware that the Governors of the Northwestern
Territory and the Mississippi Territory, are severally €X officio
superintendents of Indian affairs. The management of those
affairs, under the direction of theSecretary of War, appertains to
them. The military in this respect are only to be auxiliary to
their plans and measures. In saying fhis, it must not be under-
stood that they are to direct military dispositions and opera-
tions. But they are to be the organs of all negotiations and
communications between the Indians and the government.
They are to determine when and where supplies are to be fur-
nished to those people, and what other accommodations they are
to have. The military, in regard to all such matters, are only
to act as far as their co-operation may be required by the Super-
intendent, avoiding interferences without previous concert with
them, or otherwise than in conformity with their views. This
will exempt the military from a responsibility which had better
rest elsewhere, and it will promote a regular and uniform system
of conduct towards the Indians; which cannot exist if every
commandant of a post is to intermeddle separately and independ-
ently in the management of the concerns which relate to them.

This communication is made in conformity with an instruc-
tion from the Secretary of War ; who particularly desires that
*' The military officers may be required to refer the Indians, in
all matters relating to their national affairs or grievances, to the
Governor of the Northwestern Territory and the Governor of
the Mississippi Territory, or the temporary Indian Agent near-
est to their post, as the case may require ; and that the com-
mandants of the posts in the Mississippi Territory may be in-
E 17

258 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

structed to furnish on the order of Governor Sergeant, when
the same can be spared, such rations for the Indians who may
visit the said posts, as he may from time to time direct."

This letter being addressed to you as the temporary com-
mander in the presumed absence of General Wilkinson, you will
act on it accordingly ; recollecting that your attention is to ex-
tend to all the troops and posts from Pittsburgh westward, to
the Mississippi, on the lakes and Tennessee; in short, to all
which constitute the western army and its dependencies.

But in saying this, as a guide to you, it is not my intention
to contravene any arrangements of command which General
Wilkinson may have made previous to his departure.

CIECULAK.

New-York, May 23d, 1799.

Sir:

It is important to the service in every way, that vacancies
which happen in the several regiments should be as speedily as
possible filled. As no person can be more interested in this be-
ing done, and with a careful selection of character, than the com-
mandants of regiments, it is desirable that they should, from
time to time, propose to the general under whose command they
may be, candidates for filling those vacancies, in order that they
may be by him offered to the consideration of the Executive.

In doing this, however, it must be recollected, that there is
no part of his functions in which it is upon principle more essen-
tial, that the Executive should be perfectly free from extrinsic
influence of every kind than that of the choice of officers. Hence
it is proper that no expectation should be entertained that the
characters presented for consideration will be preferred, that no
encouragement should be given to them which may occasion
embarrassment or chagrin in case of their not being adopted,
and that no inferences painful to the person recommending

yEx. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 259

should be drawn from the failure of tlie recommendation. This
failure will doubtless often happen. Information of more eligi-
ble candidates will frequently come through other channels.
Collateral considerations will in no small number of instances
occur, which, between candidates of equal pretensions, will natur-
ally lead to a preference of persons who may have been present-
ed through other channels.

In a word, the recommendation of the commandant is only
to be considered as one mode in which information of fit charac-
ters may be conveyed to the Executive.

It occasionally happens that experience leads to alterations
in the sub-districts or their rendezvouses. It is expected that
whenever this happens, the commandant within whose circle it
occurs, will give notice of the change to the contractor of his
circle, in order that provision may be made for the requisite
supply.

It is understood that some misapprehension has existed
among some recruiting ofl&cers about the articles which the con-
tractors and their agents are to supply.

It will be proper to signify to them that these are only to
embrace ^rovmows, quarters, fuel, straw, and, where there is no
surgeon, medical aid and supply.

HAMILTON TO irHENKY.

New-York, May 23, 1 '99.

***** Embarrassment being likely to grow out of
the question about the sales of the Indians to the individuals al-
luded to, will it not be expedient for the public to hold a treaty
with them, and make the acquisition of the lands to the use of
the United States ? A small compensation to the Indians will
satisfy all their scruples, and the United States will be enabled:
to control the intrusions of the irregular purchasers. Otherwise
it is probable settlements will grow up under their titles hostile

260 HAMILTON'S WORKS. f^x. 42.

to government, because originally in disobedience to law. It
may also be a question whether, if by the effect of their pur-
chase the acquisition can be made by the United States on easier
terms, it may not be advisable to extinguish their pretensions by
the grant- of a portion of their lands. This probably may be
accomplished without difficulty. Temporising measures on a
distant frontier are often proper for a government which does not.
choose to keep on foot a considerable force, effectually to awe
sedition and hostility.

HAMILTON TO COL. STEVENS.

New-York, May 24, 1799.

:Sir:

I understand from the Secretary of War, that in the capacity
■of agent for the War Department I am to look to you for the
■duties usually performed by the quartermaster-general and
■ commissary of military stores. I shall look to you accordingly
•for these services, and therefore shall direct all returns relating
to the proper objects to be made to you, in the expectation that
you vi^ill attend to the procuring and forwarding of such as are
.required with propriety. With this view you will open a cor-
respondence with the proper officers at the seat of government.
The present system is that Tench Francis, Esq., as purveyor of
supplies, procures all articles in the several branches of supply,
which are placed by him in the disposition of Samuel Hodgdon,
Esq., as superintendent of military stores, who is to oversee all
the issues of those articles. I believe the quartermaster-general
is to take his station at the seat of government, and is to be the
auxiliary of those officers.

It is expected that the great mass of supplies will be procured
.and furnished by the immediate agency of the officers above
.mentioned, and that you will only be incidentally called upon to
provide. But you will have to make application for the supplies
avhich will be wanted at the different stations and posts of the

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 261

army, and to see that they are punctually and expeditiously fur-
nished by those whose province it is to do so. For this purpose
you will forward to them the returns which you shall receive,
first taking such abstracts from them as will enable you to judge
how far they have been complied with. This points out the
general line of the service expected from you. Explanations, as
occasions occur, will be made for your more particular infor-
mation.

I shall count fully upon your diligence and zeal, and if not
in the first instance, at least eventually, I shall confide that a
compensation adequate to what shall appear to be the extent of
your trouble and responsibility will be made.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New*York, May 25, 1799.

Sir:

I recur to two of your letters of the 9 th and 10th instant.
The reflections in the first respecting the enlistment of foreign-
ers entirely accord with my impressions, as you have heretofore
seen. I adhere to the opinion, that none but natives or natural-
ized citizens ought to be engaged. Of the latter, residence in
this country anterior to our Revolution, to be proved to the satis-
faction of the recruiting officer, or a certificate of the naturali-
zation, ought to be the criterion, and none ought to be enlisted
who have not resided in the county where they shall be enlisted
at least one year immediately preceding the enlistment.

It is true that contraventions of the rule, by imposition upon,
or connivance of the recruiting officers, will in some instances
happen. But they will not be so numerous as to prevent the
object being essentially attained.

The idea is held out in your letter of postponing the enlist-
ment of foreigners until after a district should be exhausted of
natives willing to enlist. I should doubt the expediency of a

262 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

distinction wliich is not permanent. The preference might cre-
ate disgust and perhaps an injurious collision.

I shall be glad to know speedily the result of your further
consideration of the subject.

P. S. In a scene so near the seat of government as that in
which the late insurrection has existed, and so perfectly within
its command, the policy of stationing, for any length of time, a
small body of foot soldiers, with the manifest intention to awe
the spirit of insurrection, appears to me questionable. Were I
at liberty to pursue my own inclination, I should now order the
troops to their destinations to which they have been assigned.

Under this impression, I inclose an order for Capt. Henry's
company to proceed to Powles Hook, on his way to his ultimate
destination in the eastern quarter. If you approve, you will
please to forward it. Capt. Freeman's company at West Point,
which is to form part of the battalion for the field, is ordered to
New- York, whence, if you think proper, it can march to replace
Capt. Henry's company.

HAMILTON TO MTHERSON.

New-York, May 26th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

The Secretary of War has instructed me to digest and pro-
pose a plan for the organization and arrangement of the volun-
teer corps throughout the United States. As this subject has
particularly occupied your attention, I shall be glad to be assisted
with your ideas at large concerning it.

You will be sensible that it is necessary to order, that every
part of our military system should, as nearly as may be, corres-
pond, and that consequently the establishment of the army ought
to form the base of every plan ; yet so as to have due regard to
any peculiarities which ought to discriminate corps of a distinct
and particular nature.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 263

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, May 27th, 1799.

Sir:

The returns from every quarter show that desertion prevails
to a ruinous extent. For this the natural remedies are: 1st,
greater attention to discipline ; 2d, additional care in furnishing
the supplies due to the soldiery, of such quality and with such
exactness as will leave no real cause of dissatisfaction ; 3d, the for-
bearance to enlist foreigners; and lastly, energy in the punish-
ment of offenders.

To promote the first will be my peculiar care. The second,
I doubt not, will have from you all the attention due to a matter
of primary importance. The third I hope soon to receive your
instruction to put in execution. As to the fourth, I must en-
treat that you will make such a representation to the President
as will convince him of the absolute necessity, where his agency
must intervene, of giving effect to the sentences of the courts
His determination upon one some time sinpe reported to you has
not yet been received, and I expect it with great solicitude;
there cannot occur a more fit ease for exemplary punishment.
If this culprit escapes, the example of his impunity will have a
most malignant aspect towards the service. I repeat it, sir, this
is a point of such essential consequence, that you cannot bestow
too much pains to satisfy the President that severity is indis-
pensable. It is painful to urge a position of this kind, especially
where life is concerned ; but a military institution must be worse
than useless, it must be pernicious, if a just severity does not up-
hold and enforce discipline.

264 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON,

War Department, 28th May, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your letter dated 25t'h instant. The experi-
ment of enlisting none but native citizens or naturalized foreign-
ers at present in our army, I am much disposed to have fully
made ; the criterion of the latter to be either a residence in this
country anterior to the Eevolution, to be proved to the satisfac-
tion of the recruiting of&cer, or a certificate of naturalization.

You will, therefore, be pleased to cause an explanatory arti-
cle upon this subject to be duly promulgated to the recruiting
officers.

My own impressions would have inclined me to maintain a
regular force in the country late the scene of insurrection, for
some time to come, had it been compatible with the public ser-
vice in other respects; but it is exclusively confided to your
judgment to continue or remove the vfhole or any part of the
regular force now stationed in that country.

I shall forward your letter to the commanding officer afe
Eeading, directing him to order Capt. Cochrane to march his
company to Fort Mifilin.

HAMILTON TO CAPTAIN ELLERY.

New- York, May 29th, 1799.

Sir:

You having been appointed assistant to the Adjutant-General,
and he being at this time absent, I think it proper to indicate to
you a general outline of the duties which you are to perform.

The duties of Adjutant-General, who unites the capacity of
Deputy Inspector-General, are various and extensive. In the
two characters he may be regarded as the assistant of the com-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 265

mander of the army and of the Inspector-General in whatever re-
lates to the police and tactics of the army.

He is to receive from the commanding general, and issue to
the army, the general orders, for which purpose he is to attend
the commanding general daily. He is to regulate the detail of
officers and men for guards, fatigue service, commands, &c., and
to see that they are regularly furnished. All returns of the
troops, including those relating to the inspectorship, and, when
the Paymaster-General or his deputy is not at head-quarters, the
muster and pay rolls, are to be made to him. From the returns
of the troops which he receives he is from time to time to make
out abstracts for the commander of the army and the Secretary
of War.

For the present, a monthly return for each will suffice. The
returns relating to the inspectorship are to be handed over to the
Inspector-General, with such remarks as may occur from an
examination of them.

The muster and pay rolls must be transmitted to the account-
ant of the Department of War, unless when the Paymaster-
General shall be at the seat of the government, in which case
they must be sent to him.

Practice will point out better than a letter can define the
modes of executing the duties of the office.

To understand them perfectly, it is essential to be well ac«
quainted with the " Regulations for the Order and Discipline of
the Army," established under the auspices of the Baron de
Steuben during our Revolution war, " The Articles of War," and
the " Rules and Regulations respecting the Recruiting Service "

266 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Mount Vernon, June 6, 1799.

Dear Sir :

I have duly received your letter of the 3d of May, and am
glad to find that the recruiting service is likely to progress with-
out further delay. To facilitate this, nothing will contribute more
than clothing.

It is certainly necessary to push on this business with proper
energy, and be provided with an ample and timely supply of
every article wanted, if it is expected that such troops as we
have, should be in any degree respectable. This, I trust, will be
done. And I should hope, ere this, that the field ofiicers for the
regiment to be raised in New Hampshire, &c., have been ap-
pointed.

It is very desirable that the selection of characters to officer
the regiments, eventually to be raised, should be such as will do
credit to the service, if they should be called into the field. The
Secretary of War has requested me to furnish him with a list of
names for the quota from Virginia, which I am taking measures
to do ; but owing to my long absence from this State, I have so
little personal knowledge of characters, that I must rely very
much on the information of others in whom I can confide.
With very sincere regard, I am, dear sir,

You affectionate humble servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO HAMTRANCK.

(private.)

New-York, June 6th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I duly received your private letters of the and the 25th

of January last, to which a very extraordin^jry pressure of busi-

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 267

ness has prevented a reply. Such of your remarks as are
personal to me are very gratifying.

I hope your expectations will not finally be disappointed,
though it will require time before a complete organization of
what is now a very disjointed mass, will enable me to establish a
perfect order. Zeal, at least, my friends know will not be
wanting.

The request you make with respect to yourself, though
unusual, is very natural, considering past experience. It will not
fail to influence my advice, unless I perceive that your feelings
and your interest as a soldier can be mutually consulted.

Communicate to me freely and confidentially on the subject
of western afiairs, you are sure of my discretion and honor.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, June 7th, 1799^

Dear Sir:

I did myself the honor to write to you at some length on the
3d of May, I hope the letter got safe to hand.

The recruiting service is now in motion in Maryland, Dela-
ware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New- York, Connecticut, and
Massachusetts; I might, perhaps, add Virginia, from the assu.
ranees which I have received as to the transmission of supplies,
but I am not as yet informed of its actual commencement in that
State. This cannot be much longer delayed.

The field officers for the regiment, which embraces New
Hampshire, Vermont and Ehode Island, have been lately ap-
pointed. They are Kufus Graves, lieutenant-colonel; Timothy
Tarling and Cornelius Lynde, majors. The moment money and
clothing shall arrive the recruiting will begin there and in North
Carolina. But I do not view this as very near.

I do not understand that the officers for South Carolina and
Georgia have yet been recommended.

268 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

The information I receive as to the progress and prosperity
of the recruiting service, is sufficiently encouraging. Colonel
Taylor, commandant of the regiment raising in Connecticut,
assures me that he is persuaded, if no obstacle arises from sup-
plies, that in two months his regiment will be filled by native
Americans, From other quarters the intelligence is very well.
I permit myself to hope that in the summer and fall the army will
be at its complement.

I send you a copy of the arrangement which has been made
of the two regiments of artillerists ; measures are taking to carry
it into execution ; — the distribution of the officers of the western
army is referred to Colonel Burbeck.

There is nothing further in the military line worthy of your
attention to communicate. When I shall have obtained more
assistance I shall write more frequently.

A letter from Mr. King contains this unpleasant intelligence.
The publication of the treaty of Camipo-Forraio by the Directory
will injure the affiiirs of the emperor. It will increase the jealousy
of the king of Prussia and of the emperor, whose safety and
interests were too little in view in that treaty. There is no end
to the folly of the potentates who are arrayed against France.
We impatiently expect further accounts of the operations of the
archduke, and entertain a strong hope that his genius and energy
will turn to good account the advantage he has gained.

Most respectfully and affectionately I have the hopor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO ADLUM.

New-York, June 8th, 1799.

Sir:

It is conceived to be expedient for some time to come, to
keep a body of troops in and near that district of country in
which the late insurrection existed. For this service, it is in-
tended for the present to continue the troops now at Eeading,

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 269

viz. : two companies of artillerists (Elliot's and Irvin's) ; a com-
pany of infantry (Shoemaker's), and a detachment of infantry
under Lieutenant Boote. General McPherson recommended the
occupying of three stations, Reading^ Allentown^ and Easton. If
the corps of troops was more considerable, I should entirely ap-
prove this idea. But to render them at all impressive, there
must not be too few at one point. I have thought that a company
at Easton, and the remainder at Heading, might be the best dis-
position.

It is my desire that you assume the command of the whole
body, as above described, and that you make such a disposition
of it in reference to those points, as information on the spot shall
induce you to prefer. This command need not interfere with
the duties to which you have been assigned, in regard to the re-
cruiting service. You must so manage as to reconcile the two
objects with each other.

HAMILTON TO MAJOR HOOPS.

New- York, June 10th, 1799.

Sir:

You will cause McGregor to be furnished with the requisite
certificates, from the captain of his company, and the acting sur-
geon, in order to an.application to me for a discharge. The ser-
vice is best rid of such men.

I am desirous of seeing in practice the French manual of the
artillery, in order to a comparison of it with our own. The ne-
cessary apparatus, if not in the garrison, will be provided by
Colonel Stevens, on your application, showing him this para-
graph of my letter.

If you have not in the garrison some jfield-pieces, you will
obtain four from Colonel Stevens, in order to the exercise of the
men ; if he has none belonging to the United States, you will, in
my name, request a loan out of those belonging to the State.

I requested that Captain Eead, lately from West Pointy

270 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

miglit be directed to call ■upon me. As lie has not called, I pre-
sume my note to you must have miscarried. I request that he
may be informed of my desire to see him.

HAMILTON TO

New-York, June 12th, 1799.

It will be with great regret that I shall at any time see in the
conduct of an officer intentional negligence or disrespect. I am
the less disposed to suppose either in the present case, because it
is impossible to imagine a motive. Yet I owe it to propriety to
remark, that your continued silence has been ill-judged.

The obstacles which you mention to the making of the re-
turns, did not render it impracticable to acknowledge the receipt
of my letters, and to inform me of the causes of delay, and of
what was intended, which certainly ought to have been done.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

(private.)

New-York, June 15th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I wrote to you a few days since, chiefly to inform you of the
progress of the measures respecting the recruiting service, and
that the symptoms with regard to it were sufficiently promising.
The accounts continue favorable.

I have just received a letter from General Wilkinson, dated
the 13th April, in which he assures ^me he will set out in the
ensuing month for the seat of government. The interview with
him will be useful.

It strikes me forcibly, that it will be right and expedient to

JEt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 271

advance this gentleman to tlie grade of major-general. He lias
been long steadily in service, and long a brigadier. This, in so-
considerable an extension of the military establishment, gives
him a pretension to promotion.

I am aware, that some doubts have been entertained of him,
and that his character on certain sides, gives room for doubt.
Yet he is at present in the service, is a man of more than ordina-
ry talent, of courage and enterprise — has discovered upon various
occasions a good zeal — has embraced military pursuits as a pro-
fession, and will naturally find his interest, as an ambitious man,
in deserving the favor of the government ; while he will be apt
to become disgusted, if neglected ; and through disgust may be
rendered really what he is now only suspected to be. Under
such circumstances, it seems to me good policy to avoid all just
grounds of discontent, and to make it the interest of the indivi-
dual to pursue his duty.

If you should be also of this opinion, I submit to your consi-
deration, whether it would not be advisable for you to express it
in a private letter to the Secretary of War.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, June 16th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Seeing the terrible delays which take place, is it not advisa-
ble immediately to authorize your agent at New-York and Bos-
ton, to take prompt measures for increasing your supply of cloth-
ing, tents, and such other articles as are in arrear ? Considering
past experience, can you possibly depend on the present plan for
the future supply ? If blue cloth cannot be found for the whole,
better to take some other color by entire regiments for those
which have not yet begun to recruit.

The Brest fleet is out. Its destination is in all probability
Ireland ; but ought we so entirely to rely upon this as to omit

272 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

to take the precaution of having some fast-sailing vessels on the
look-out before our principal ports, Charleston, the entrance of
the Chesapeake, the Delaware, New- York, Newport, Boston —
with perhaps the establishment of signals ?

It would be awkward to be entirely surprised, and to have
some of our banks fall into the hands of the Philistines. When
we think of Egypt, we ought not to consider the attempt as im-
practicable. Announcing that it is a mere act of caution with-
out intelligence, no inconvenient alarm will be created. It may
even be useful to bring home to the minds of our citizens, that
our government does not deem an invasion impossible.

Colonel Stevens informs me, that some time since the United
States lent to New- York a thousand stand of arms, which are
exposed in a situation to be lost, and are not wanted by the
State. There is no reason why their return should not be
asked.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, June 18. 1799.

Sir :

You will be pleased to receive herewith a statement of the
articles of supply requisite for a regiment of infantry. It is ne-
cessary that the full quantity, including what has been hereto-
fore forwarded, should be transmitted as fast as possible, with all
the diligence that can be made. It is not probable that they
will arrive too soon.

After the proportion which was indicated in the first in-
stance, shall have been furnished to the several regiments of
which the of&cers have been appointed, the additional supply
had best be forwarded, first to the 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th,
regiments ; next to the 8th, 9th, and 14th ] then to the 7th and
15th ; and lastly to the 6th and 16th.

An additional supply of bounty-money sufficient, with what
has been already sent, for the raising of three-fourths of each

JEt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 273

regiment, ought immediately to be furnished to the 10th, 11th,
12th, and 13th regiments ; and it will be well to forward to the
paymaster of each of these regiments, one month's pay, with the
addition of the retained bounty for one-third of a regiment,
exclusive of officers. If this is determined upon, I shall be glad
to be advised of the determination.

P. S. The inclosed copy of a general order of the 6th instant,
is conformable to your instructions by letter. You will judge
whether any further or more formal sanction is requisite.

CIRCULAR TO COMMANDANT.

New-York, June 19th, 1799.

Sir:

Inclosed is the form of a monthly return which you are to
make to me pursuant to the XXXVth of the " rules and regula-
tions respecting the recruiting service. It now becomes urgent,
that these returns shall be regularly made. They will gov-
ern my application to the Secretary of War for provisions of
money.

You will consequently enforce punctuality in the returns
which, according to these rules and regulations, must be the
basis of that now prescribed. And you will be particularly at-
tentive to procuring the regular transmission of all those docu-
ments which are to regulate the accountability for money and
other supplies.

As soon as recruits shall reach the regimental rendezvous,
they must be definitively mustered. This duty for the present
must devolve upon you with the aid of your regimental sur-
geon. If none has been appointed, you must, with the co-opera-
tion of the contractors, employ a capable medical man in his
stead ; and it is relied upon, that this service will be executed
with exemplary strictness.
E 18

274 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

The disability of rupture is found in experience to occur fre-
quently. The surgeon must inspect without ceremony, wherever
there may be latent defects. And all disqualified men, from
whatever cause, must be instantly discharged, first taking from
them, as far as practicable, whatever they may have obtained
from the public by imposing themselves upon its service.

No money, after the arrival at the regimental rendezvous,
must be paid to a soldier, till he shall have been thus carefully
examined and mustered.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, June 19th, ITQS'.

Dear Sir :

Your favor of the 7th instant, with its inclosures, has been
duly received.

I am very glad to learn that the recruiting business, so far as
it has been put in operation, succeeds agreeably to your wishes.
It has commenced in Virginia, and I am informed that, in this
vicinity, (and I have no intelligence from the more distant parts
of the State,) its progress is very flattering. A supply of cloth-
ing would, however, promote this service even hereabouts ; and
unless it be furnished soon, I am apprehensive it will languish, if
not stop entirely.

I understand, by a letter which I received a few days since
from General Pinckney, that the selection of ofiicers from North
and South Carolina, and Georgia, has been transmitted to the
War Office. I hope, on every account, there will be no delay in
completing this arrangement.

The disposition you have made of the artillery regiments is,
I have no doubt, just and proper, and calculated to promote the
good of the service.

I thank you for the information from Mr. King. I have long
believed that France owes the facility of her conquests more to

^Et. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 27i

the jealousy and want of cordial co-operation among the powers
of Europe, whose interest it is to check her desolating ravages,
than to any exertions of her own, great as they may have been.
It appears from every account, (although there is none so full
and distinct as I could wish,) that her armies have not only been
checked, but obliged to retreat. And her internal affairs do not
seem to be in the best situation. Should these advantages be
properly improved, I think the happiest effects may result from
them.

With very sincere regard, I am, dear Sir,

Your affectionate and obedient servant,

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, June 21st, 1799.

Sir:

The suggestion respecting the cavalry, in your letter of the
18th instant, leads to the supposition that the actual raising of
the additional troops will be postponed for a considerable time.
Though I have no doubts that powerful motives will have influ-
enced this intention, yet I cannot but regret their existence, as
well because the body of cavalry provided for would promise
signal utility in various ways, as because it is a corps which
requires more time for instruction and preparation than the
infantry.

It appears reasonable that the oflEicers of the cavalry should
render services for the emoluments they receive ; but the plan
of employing them out of the proper line is attended with very
great difficulties. Nothing is more delicate than to contravene
established prepossessions in an army, and there is none more
fixed than the dislike of officers of cavalry to serve as officers of
infantry, except in extraordinary and temporary emergencies.

Give me leave to offer to your consideration a middle course.

276 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

Let one troop be raised and mounted, and the non-commissioned
officers of the remainder be enlisted. Let these be stationed at
some eligible point, and let all the officers be collected there for
instruction and exercise. In this situation, it will be more
manageable, if desirable, to detach them from time to time on
infantry service. The tactics of both corps can be taught them
together.

Colonel Taylor is anxious for the appointment of Doctor
Joseph Trowbridge as surgeon to his regiment. I repeat the
wish that the officers of this description may be as speedily as
possible appointed.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, June 24th, 1799.

Sir:

I received this morning your letter of the 21st instant.

The remarks you have offered relative to the cavalry, are de-
serving of attention ; and the course you propose, which com-
bines a temporary saving with immediate employment for the
officers, in a mode conformable to the Constitution, of this kind
of troops, will be considered. I shall inform you of the result,
I observe, however, that my .present opinion is, it will be best to
adopt the mode you propose.

The nomination for surgeon and mates for the 13th, or Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Taylor's regiment, will be forwarded to the Presi-
dent the moment I hear from Mr, Tracy respecting a mate which
he recommended, about whom he is to consult Colonel Taylor.
The nomination has been postponed, waiting for the approbation
of Lieutenant-Colonel Taylor for fit characters.

I requested you, the 4th of June, to name to me fit persons
for surgeon and mates to the 12th regiment. I shall, as soon
as I receive your nominations, forward them to the President.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 277

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Mount Vernon, June 25th, 1799.

Dear Sir :

Your private letter of the 15th instant came duly to hand.

So far as my information extends (which, by the by, is very
limited), the recruiting service in this State progresses beyond
my expectation, but is retarded very considerably from the want
of clothing — the ragged appearance of the recruits having a
tendency to disgust rather than to excite enlistments.

I think with you, that policy dictates the expediency of pro-
moting Brigadier Wilkinson to the rank of Major-General, and
will suggest the measure to the Secretary of War, in a private
communication. It would feed his ambition, soothe his vanity,
and, by arresting discontent, produce the good effect you con-
template. But in the appointment of this gentleman, regard
must be had to time, circumstances, and dates ; otherwise, by
endeavoring to avoid Charybdis, we might run upon Scylla.

What I mean by this is, that the President might deem it
expedient to take the next Major-General from the Eastern
States; again, may recur to the former appointments of that
grade in the provisional army; and further, if services in the
revolutionary army are to be regarded, to relative rank, also, in
dating the commissions of the Major-Generals yet to be ap-
pointed.

If General Wilkinson should be promoted, it would be ex-
pected, no doubt, that the oldest Lieutenant-Colonel command-
ant should step into his shoes as Brigadier ; of course the oldest
Major of the old line would succeed to the vacancy occasioned
thereby. Who and what the character of these gentlemen are,
I know not. The measure deserves consideration.

I am, always.

Your affectionate, &c.

278 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

HAMILTON TO M^HENEY.

(private.)

New-York, June 25th, 1799.

My Deae Sm :

I conclude from your letter by to-day's post, that your own
opinion in regard to the raising of a troop of horse, is made up,
and that you only delay a determination from the necessity of
a reference elsewhere. This is a point that I have so much at
heart, that I should be sorry any thing was risked about it. If
you think there is the least danger of disappointment, I will
write to the Commander-in-Chief to obtain for you the support
of his ideas.

It is of very material consequence to have a troop raised, as
a stock on which to ingraft a system of tactics for the cavalry.
Hitherto, it may be said, we have had none. Improvements are
going on in Europe. This particular arm is not brought to per-
fection even there. Opinions are somewhat unsettled. It is very
desirable to have an organ by which we can essay the various
plans, and upon which we can establish the model of a good
system.

As to the two troops already raised, they ought to remain
where they are.

Another subject :

General Wilkinson is soon expected. I am strongly inclined
to see him made a Major-General. He has had now a great deal
of experience ; he possesses considerable military information ; he
has activity, courage, and talents ; his pretensions to promotion,
in every view, are strong. If he should become disgusted with-
out it, it would not be extraordinary.

Half-confidence is always bad. This officer has adopted mili-
tary life as a profession. What can his ambition do better than
be faithful to the government, if it gives him fair play ?

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 279

HAMILTON" TO MATTHEW CLAKKSON.

New- York, June 25, 1799.

Dear General:

The officers of the provisional army are intended to be
appointed. Those for two regiments are to be drawn from this
State, and I am desired to recommend fit characters. As far as
you can give me assistance in this matter you will promote the
public service and oblige me.

Any old officer who may deserve attention, will do well to
reflect that when this army shall be called into activity, the
affairs of the country will be too serious to permit him to remain
a mere spectator.

If the command of a brigade were in quesfion, I should press
you to obtain your consent to serve. As it is I can only ask
your aid in the nomination of others.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

Jane 25, 1799.
***** The clothing and equipments of the army are
undergoing a systematic revision. Nothing has been altered or
established in regard to the apparatus or exercise of this corps
(the artillerists). The practice at different posts is various. I
have directed part of the troops now at Fort Jay to be instructed
in the French method, to enable me to compare that with our
former method, and to decide which is preferable. Present con-
viction is, that a separation between the engineering and artillery
branches is necessary to the perfection of each.

280 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^x. 42.

AN ACT FOR THE BETTER ORGANIZING THE CORPS OF ARTILLE-
RISTS AND ENGINEERS, TO BE HEREAFTER DENOMINATED
" THE CORPS OF ENGINEERS AND ARTILLERISTS."

Draft by Hamilton.

1799.

1. Be it enacted, &c., that instead of the present establish-
ment of the corps of artillerists and engineers, the same shall
hereafter be composed of a regiment of engineers, a regiment of
horse artillerists, and a regiment of foot artillery. That the
functions of the engineers and artillerists shall be separate and
distinct — those of the former relating to fortification and other
military constructions, and to the attack and defence of fortified
places — those of the latter to the service of artillery ; provided
always, that this separation shall not be understood to prevent a
commanding officer from designating the officers of one corps to
perform duties peculiar to the other, when special circumstances
shall in his opinion require it.

2. And be it further enacted, that a regiment of engineers shall
consist of two lieutenant- colonels, first and second; three majors,
twelve captains, twenty-four first-lieutenants, twenty-four second-
lieutenants, and twenty-four cadets, to which shall be attached
four companies of miners and artificers, to be formed as hereafter
mentioned. ^

3. And be it further enacted, that a regiment of artillerists,
whether horse or foot, shall consist of four battalions, each of
four companies, and of these officers and men, to wit : — one lieu-
tenant-colonel commandant, four majors, one adjutant, one
quartermaster, one paymaster, each being a lieutenant ; one sur-
geon, and two surgeon's mates, sixteen captains, thirty-two
lieutenants, besides the three above mentioned ; thirty two cadets,
sixty-four sergeants, sixty-four corporals, one chief musician, six-
teen other musicians, and privates, but that until the
organizing and raising of one battalion of each of the said
regiments shall be suspended.

4. And be it further enacted, that the officers and men (except

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 281

the artificers) of tlie two regiments heretofore established, shall
be incorporated into the regiments of artillerists to be organized
pursuant to this act. That such of the officers as upon examina-
tion may be found best qualified for the corps of engineers, may-
be transferred to that corps, and that supernumeraries, if any there
be, may, with their consent, be transferred to the infantry, in
grades corresponding with those which they shall possess, or may
remain attached to the regiments of artillerists, and fill, according
to their respective rank, future vacancies in battalions and com-
panies as they shall accrue.

5. And be it further enacted, that the artificers of the present
regiments shall be formed into four companies — two of miners,
and two of artificers ; that a company of miners or artificers
shall consist of a captain, one first, one second-lieutenant, four
sergeants, four corporals, and fifty-six privates. That the commis-
sioned officers of these companies shall be officers of the regiment
of engineers, to be assigned by the commander of that regiment.

6. And be it further enacted, that the pay and other allowances
of the regiments of engineers and artillerists, according to the
establishment hereby prescribed, shall be similar to those of the
regiments to which they are to be substituted.

7. And be it further enacted, that in case open war shall
break out between the United States and any foreign European
power, or in case imminent danger of invasion of their territory
shall, in the opinion of the President, be discovered to exist, it
shall be lawful for him to organize and cause to be raised two
regiments of horse artillerists in addition to that provided for by
this act, together with the two battalions of artillerists suspended
as aforesaid — and for this purpose, if in the recess of the Senate,
to appoint alone the officers thereof, and to borrow upon the
credit of the United States from the Bank of the United States,
or any other body or bodies politic, or persons whomsoever, a
sum not exceeding dollars.

8. And be it further enacted, that the corps of engineers and
artillery shall be under the command of a . general.

282 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 4'2.

HAMILTON TO

New-York, June 25th, 1799.

* * * * You will allow me, however, to remark to you witli
frankness, that there is in my opinion something too absolute in
your manner of declining this service, and that I cannot give
my sanction to the sentiment in your letter, contained in these
words : "I cannot possibly, except in actual war, separate myself
from her [your wife] and my children," &c. You have too much
discernment, and too well know the principles of service, not to
be sensible that it is the essential condition of military employment
that, in peace as in war, an officer shall be ready to execute the
trusts, relatively to his station, to which he may be designated.
That the peremptory claim of an exemption from this rule can-
not be advanced, whatever may be the hope of indulgence to-
wards a very peculiar situation.

Doubtless, therefore, you will see it proper to correct the
latitude and force of the expressions which you have used, as
transcending your real meaning.

M<^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

(private and confidential.)

June 27th, 1799.

My Dear Sir :

In answer to yours (just received) of the 25th instant, it will
be agreeable to me to see a troop of horse completely organized,
that we may ascertain, as far as it is practicable, with so small a
model, the improvements of which cavalry are yet susceptible.
You may write, therefore, an official letter on the subject, pro-
posing it, and request my final directions. I shall give them.

General W has certainly claims to promotion ; and, so

far as it respects myself, I shall not oppose it. It will be proper,

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 283

however, that General Washington be consulted before the least
step be taken in the business. Your maxim is in general a good
one. Half confidence is bad. Of this, however, be assured, that
until the commercial pursuits of this gentleman with and expec-
tations from Spain are annihilated, he will not deserve the confi-
dence of government. Further, I recommend it to you, most
earnestly, to avoid saying any thing to him which would induce
him to imagine government had in view any hostile project, how-
ever remote, or dependent on events, against any of the posses-
sions of Spain. I I'equire this caution on good grounds.

HAMILTON TO ftrHENEY.

♦ New-York, June 27th, 1799.

It is a pity, my dear sir, and a reproach, that our administra-
tion have no general plan. Certainly there ought to be one
formed without delay. If the chief is too desultory, his ministry
ought to be the more united and steady, and well-settled in some
reasonable system of measures.

Among other things, it should be agreed what precise force
should be created, naval and land^ and this proportioned to the*
state of our finances. It will be ridiculous to raise troops, and
immediately after to disband them. Six ships of the line, and
twenty frigates and sloops of war are desirable. More would not
now be comparatively expedient. It is desirable to complete
and prepare the land force which has been provided for b}'" law.
Besides eventual security against invasion, we ought certainly to
look to the possession of the Floridas and Louisiana, and we
ought to squint at South America.

Is it possible that the accomplishment of these objects can be
attended with financial difiiculty? I deny the possibility. Our
revenue can be considerably reinforced. The progress of the
country will quickly supply small deficiencies, and these can be
temporarily satisfied by loans, provided our loans are made on

284 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

tlie principle that we require t"he aliment of European capital, —
that lenders are to gain, and their gains to be facilitated, not ob-
structed.

If all this is not true, our situation is much worse than I had
any idea of But I have no deubt that it is easy to devise the
means of execution.

And if there was everywhere a disposition, without preju-
dice and nonsense, to concert a rational plan, I Avould cheerfully
come to Philadelphia and assist in it ; nor can I doubt that suc-
cess may be insured.

Break this subject to our friend Pickering, His views are
sound and energetic. Try together to bring the other gen-
tlemen to a consultation. If there is every where a proper
temper, and it is wished, send for me, and I will come.
Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO M^'HENRY.

New-York, July 2d, 1799.

Sir:

I beg leave to recall your attention to the suggestion con-
tained in my letter of the 21st June, respecting the raising,
mountingj and equipping of one of the six additional troops of
horse, together with the non-commissioned officers of the other
troops — and to request your final direction on the subject.

The service of the cavalry in this country has never been but
imperfectly understood. Even in Europe, ideas about the forma-
tion and tactics of that species of troops' appear to be less well
settled than about the other branches of military service. It is,
in my opinion, very important to possess the means of making
an experiment of the different principles in order to the forma-
tion of a good system, adapted to the geographical circumstances
of the country. For this purpose alone a small body of cavalry
is indispensable.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 285

ADAMS TO HAMILTON.

QuiNCY, July 2d, 1799.

Sir:

Dr. Daniel Parker, of Norton, introduced to me by General
Cobb, will have the honor to deliver you this letter. The case
of his son, is a very unfortunate one, and I beg leave to intro-
duce him to your kind offices. If the young gentleman can be
discharged with propriety, I am desirous it should be done, or if
he has dispositions and qualifications for any thing better than
the station of a common soldier, I wish he might have it.
I am. Sir, with much respect.

Your most obedient servant,

John Adams.

Major General Hamilton.

ADAMS TO M'HENRY.

QuiNCY, July 7th, 1799.

Sir:

As it is an excellent principle for every man in public life to
magnify his office and make it honorable, I admire the dexterity
with which you dignify yours by representing an army and
means adequate to its support as the first thing necessary to make
the nation respected. Genius in a general is oftener an instru-
ment of divine vengeance than a guardian angel.

Stoddert, I warrant you, instead of representing the navy as
the fourth and last article necessary for national respectability,
would have felt the importance of his office enough to have
stated the navy as the first and the most indispensable.

It would not be necessary for me to decide the controversy
between you ; if it should be, I should be at no loss ; my answer
would be ready.

I have read the plan for providing and issuing of military

286 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

supplies inclosed in your favor of tlie 29tli of June. I suppose
I may keep it, in order to recur to it upon occasion. I wish to be
informed whether this is proposed to be adopted by Congress into
a law. I presume the President's authoritj^ alone is not adequate
to the establishment of it. I Avish it to be considered by the
Secretary of the Treasury and by yourself, as closely as possible
before it is recommended.

The discipline of the army and the national economy are
deeply interested in it. The Secretary of State has had experi-
ence which ought to be consulted upon this occasion.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENEY.

New- York, July 8th, 1799.

Sir:

I have considered the rules transmitted in your letter of the
2d instant relative to rank and promotion.

They appear to me founded on just principles, nor do I know
that they can be improved. I will, however, present to your
consideration some observations on two or three points.

It seems to me questionable whether the preference given to
full colonels of the deranged officers over the lieutenant colonel
commandants, who served to the end of the war, be expedient.

It is making that a matter of substance, which was purely
nominal. The grade of lieutenant-colonel commandant was in
our system to all intents and purposes of service and promotion
equal to that of colonel. And the general principle of preferring
officers who served to the end of the war seems to me as appli-
cable to this particular as to any other.

It is desirable to exempt a military commander from the
exercise of a discretion in personal matters which may expose
him to the supposition of favoritism. It is possible the Com-
mander-in-Chief may not like to be charged with that which is
proposed to be conferred upon him ; though he could have no

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 287

objection to aid the determination of the President witli all requi-
site information. Perhaps the clause may with advantage be
altered to stand thus : — " The relative rank of officers who have
not been in service will be determined by the President. The
Commander-in-Chief will report to him their names with such in-
formation as he may deem proper."

The last clause will, I think, be more accurate, if altered into
this form : — " On the happening of a vacancy, the officer next in
rank will in ordinary cases be considered as the most proper per-
son to fill the same. But this rule is considered as subject to ex-
ceptions in extraordinary cases."

It will be useful, also, in my opinion, to add a clause to this
effect : — In promotions to the several ranks of generals, the
officers of cavalry, artillery, and infantry, will be considered as
eligible indiscriminately, or without distinction of one corps for
another.

To confine the officers of artillery and cavalry to their partic-
ular corps in the appointments of general officers, is to render the
chance of promotion unequal, aand to discourage in the several
classes of officers the study of all the branches of tactics. The
contrary principle will have a contrary effect ; and though it is
rarely to be expected that an officer of cavalry or infantry will
be competent to the service of the artillery, yet nothing is more
easy than for the officers of those corps to be acquainted with the
tactics of each, and aa officer of artillery can without difficulty
make himself master of the tactics of the cavalry and infantry.
The plan of an indiscriminate choice will also increase the chances
of having qualified generals.

And if the idea itself be approved, it is expedient to prepare
the army to expect its application by engrafting it in the system
of promotion.

288 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

ADAMS TO M*'HENRY.

QaiNCY, July 19, 1799.

Sie:

I agree witli you in your opinion expressed in your favor of
tlie 12th, that both an army and navy establishment is essential
to the present and future interests and greatness of the United
States; and that we must run the risks which other nations
have run.

It appeared to me that officers were created and soldiers made
necessary in the plan for supplying the army, which would re-
quire the interposition of Congress ; but if the powers already
given to administration are sufl&cient, I am satisfied, I wish only
that the heads of departments may be satisfied, and that no em-
barrassments may be brought upon them which they are not
previously apprised of

ADAMS TO M<^HENRY.

QuiNCY, July 27, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your favor of the 20th, and no objection to
the plan you propose of raising a company of cavalry. " Our
means!" I never think of our means without shuddering; all
the declamations as well as demonstrations of Trenchard and
Gordon, Bolingbroke, Bernard and Walpole, Hume, Burgh and
Burke, rush upon my memory and frighten me out of my wits.
The system of debts and taxes is levelling all government in
Europe. We have a career to run, to be sure, and some time to
pass before we arrive at the European crisis ; but we must ulti-
mately go the same way. There is no practicable or imaginable
expedient to escape it, that I can conceive.

j:t.42.i military papers. 289

HAMILTON TO SECRETARY AT WAR.

New-York, July 29th, 1799.

Sir:

I have tlie lionor to acknowledge tlie receipt of your letter of
tlie 25th. instant, inclosing a warrant for the execution of Sergeant
Hunt.

I have reflected carefully on the point submitted to our joint
consideration, and, upon the whole, I incline to the side of for-
bearance.

The temper of our country is not a little opposed to the fre-
quency of capital punishment. Public opinion, in this respect,
though it must not have too much influence, is not wholly to be
disregarded. There must be some caution not to render our
military system odious by giving it the appearance of being san-
guinary.

Considering, too, the extreme lenity in time past, there may
be danger of shocking even the opinion of the army by too
violent a change. The idea of cruelty inspires disgust, and ulti- ]
mately is not much more favorable to authority than the excess '
of lenity.

Neither is it clear that one example, so quickly following
upon the heels of another, in the same corps, will materially in-
crease the impression intended to be made, or answer any valu-
able purpose.

If, for any or all of these reasons, the utility of the measure be
doubtful, in favor of life it ought to be forborne. It is the true
policy of the government to maintain an attitude which shall ex-
press a reluctance to strike, united with a determination to do it
whenever it shall be essential.

It is but too certain that it will not be long before other in-
stances will occur in which the same punishment will be decreed
for the same oflence. To disseminate the examples of executions
so far as they shall be indispensable, will serve to render them
more eflicacious.

Under these impressions, if I hear nothing to the contrary
E 19

290 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

from you by the return of the post, I shall issue an order to the
following effect: " That, though the President has fully approved
the sentence of Sergeant Hunt, and, from the heinous nature of
his conduct, considers him m a very fit subject for punishment ;
yet, being unwilling to multiply examples of severity, however
just, beyond what experience may show to be indispensable, and
hoping that the good faith and patriotism of the soldiery will
spare him the painful necessity of frequently resorting to them,
he has thought fit to authorize a remission of the punishment ;
directing, nevertheless, that Sergeant Hunt be degraded from his
station."

I request to be speedily instructed.

HAMILTON TO STODDERT.

New-York, July 29th, 1799.

Dear Sir :

A press of various business has delayed a reply to your favor
of the 19th instant.

The principle you suggest for my consideration, though, if it
could be introduced, it would work well, cannot, in my opinion,
be put into practice. It would contravene too much pretensions
rooted as well in the human heart as in unconquerable prejudices
of the military state ; by which expressions I include the naval
department. Carrying in the very fact an avowed preference,
humiliating to the pride of the superior ofiicer, and reversing the
order of antecedent relations, a cheerful submission could never
be obtained.

The alternative you mention is the proper expedient, and a
very necessary one it is. It will be happy if Congress can be
induced to adopt it.

With very great esteem, I have the honor, &c.,

To Secretary of Navy.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. • 291

HAMILTON TO JAY.

New-York, July 29th, 1799.

My dear Sir :

The completion of the -works in the vicinity of our city pro-
ceeds heavily. Some embarrassment is understood to arise in
the War Department from the question of appropriations. I
beg to be informed whether the sum appropriated by the legis-
lature of this State will come in aid of the operation. Limited
as that sum is, nothing upon a large scale can be undertaken in
reference to it. Its agency in fortifications on the islands, at
Powles Hook, and on the projection from Long Island opposite
Governor's Island (I forget at this moment its name), is the only
one which can be useful.

With great respect and esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO GENERAL STEVENS.

New-York, July 29th, 1799.

Sir:

Inclosed is a plan for the uniforms, &c., of the army, pre-
pared at my request by Colonel Smith, with the aid of Colonel
Fish and Captain Armstrong. I am desirous of seeing some
models of clothing made agreeably to this plan, beginning with
those of the privates. It is my wish that the models may be
framed, as well with a view to the quality of the materials, as to
the fashions and ornaments of the clothing. The sooner they
can be prepared the better.

But, to be more certain that we meet the ideas of the framers
of the plan, you will be pleased to have recourse to the assist-
ance of Captain Armstrong, who has been very obliging on the
occasion, and who, I doubt not, will with pleasure lend his fur-
ther aid.

292 . HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New- York, July 30th, 1799.

Sir:

On a subject not very familiar to my experience, I thouglit
it well to consult otters (one at a distance), whicli has occasioned
a delay in fulfilling the object of your letter of the 24th of June,
respecting regulations for issuing straw, fuel, &c,

I send you, herewith, the result of my inquiries and reflec-
tions. In regard to fuel, the late improvements in the con-
struction of chimneys, by Count Eumford, which may be
adopted in quarters and garrisons, has had influence in dimin-
ishing the quantity, which, independent of this circumstance, is
conceived to be too liberal in your plan. This being, in the
view of economy, a matter of great importance, I would advise
that an abstract be made of those chapters of Count Eumford's
treatise which are applicable to chimneys, in order that a
printed copy be furnished to each commanding officer of a gar-
rison, &c. Mr. Jonathan Williams would execute this in an
eligible manner. The more simple and concise the abstract the
better.

The scheme of regulation now submitted, contemplates, like-
wise, that the officers will be arranged in messes of six to a
mess.

Give me leave to ask whether, in the future construction of
barracks, it will not be expedient to have the rooms large
enough to contain each twelve men. It has been found that
messes of this number conduce to the comfort of the troops,
preventing waste, and consequently rendering the supply more
ample. The effect of the arrangement in relation to fuel, is very
obvious.

In the field, it is usual for the troops to provide themselves
with fael ; and straw is furnished as it can be had. The regula-
tions are therefore confined to troops in garrisons and quar-
ters.

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 293

Regulations to he observed in the delivery and distribution of fue\
straw^ and stationery to the army, and respecting horses furnished
to officers, and respecting those which they may keep themselves.

Fuel (when in garrison and quarters) .

From the 1st day of October to the 1st day of April in every year, is allowed :

1st. To every colonel and major, one cord and one half cord of wood per
month.

2d. To every commanding officer of a garrison, one cord and one half cord
of wood per month. This to include his allowance otherwise.

4th. To every other commissioned officer half a cord of wood per month, the
same to each surgeon or surgeon's mate.

7th. To every eight non-commissioned officers, musicians and privates, half a
cord of wood per month, and the same allowance to servants, batmen not soldiers,
and washerwomen.

8th. To officers, surgeons, surgeons' mates, soldiers, servants, batmen not
soldiers, and washerwomen, one third the aforesaid allowance from the 1st day
of April to the 1st day of October in every year.

9th. To a garrison barrack guard such quantity as may be required by the
commandant of a garrison, not exceeding two cords per month.

10th. To the sick in hospital such quantity as may be required by the surgeon,
with the sanction of the commanding officer.

11th. As a smaller quantity of fuel may suffice in the southern States than is
allowed by these regulations, each commanding general or other chief command-
ing officer, is enjoined to regulate the demand for this article by the nature of the
climate. The regulation to be prescribed in public orders.

Straw.

1st. One truss of straw weighing twenty-four pounds, is allowed for each
palliass for two men ; this allowance to be renewed monthly,

2d. The same quantity of straw is allowed for servants and batmen, not sol-
diers, and for washerwomen attached to each company, in the proportion of one
washerwoman to every seventeen non-commissioned officers and privates.

3d. The straw is to be changed for the sick in the hospital, as often as may
be deemed necessary, this necessity to be determined by the surgeon, or the sur-
geon's mate in the absence of the surgeon.

Requisitions for Fuel or Straw.

1st. Requisitions for wood or straw must state in the form of returns th-

number and rank of the officers, the number of non-commissioned officers and pri

vates, servants, batmen not soldiers, and of washerwomen, for whom demanded

showing in a column the quantity for each class, which returns must be certifie

294 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

by the quartermaster of the regiment, if present, or person acting as such, and
by the commanding officer of the regiment, corps, or detachment, for which the
supply is required. In the case of the sick in hospital, the chief medical officer
having charge of it will sign the return, which will be countersigned by the com-
manding officer.

2d. No wood or straw shall be drawn for officers or soldiers whilst on fur-
lough, nor any allowance made to them for the same.

3d. Whenever it shall appear that more wood or straw has been drawn than
there were officers, soldiers, servants, batmen not soldiers, and washerwomen
actually present and entitled thereto, the officer making such requisition shall be
held responsible for the value of the articles drawn beyond the quantity allowed
by these regulations, and shall have his name, and the circumstances of the case,
reported to the Commander-in-Cliief, or the Commanding General of the Depart-
ment.

4th. Requisitions thus signed, and the receipts given by the officers to whom
the articles are delivered for consumption, shall be produced as vouchers by the
contractor, agent, or quartermaster, in the settlement of liis accounts.

I Stationery.

1st. To each company is allowed one quire of paper per month.

2d. To each regimental adjutant, one quire per month.

3d. To each regimental paymaster, one quire per month.

4th. To each regimental quartermaster, one quire per month.

6th. To the Commander-in-Chief and General officers, as occasion may re-
quire.

6th. To the surgeon of a regiment, two quires of paper per month.

7th. To each regimental surgeon's mate, one quire of paper per month.

8th. To the hospitals, according to their respective wants, to be drawn for by
the surgeon-general or surgeon of each hospital.

9th. To courts martial and of inquiry, what shall be required, on the return of
the Judge Advocate or Recorder, and signed by the President.

10th. Requisitions for company and orderly books, forms of returns, &c., for
the use of the regiments or garrisons, to be signed by the quartermasters of regi-
ments or garrisons, and countersigned by the commandants of the respective re-
giments or garrisons.

Horses.
If horses shall at any time be furnished by the Quartermaster-General or any
of his deputies, upon the requisition of the Commanding- General or officers hav-
ing the authority to make the requisition, or otherwise to any officer for his parti-
cular use, or to enable him to execute his functions, except for some temporary
service, the value of the said horse shall be determined or agreed upon at the
time of the delivery, and shall be deducted from the pay of the officer receiving

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 295

him ; and the Quartermaster-General is hereby directed to make report to the
accountant forthwith, that the proper deduction of pay may be made. Officers
shall not keep or be furnished with forage for more than the following number of
horses. If entitled to more forage, the difference shall be paid for.

A Major-General, not commanding a separate army, four.

A Brigadier not commanding as above, three.

Each Aid of a general officer, two.

A Secretary, when one is allowed by law, two.

Each Field-officer, two. Adjutant, one. Regimental Quartermaster, one.
Regimental Paymaster, one. Surgeon or mate, one.

The Inspector-General, five.

A Deputy Inspector-General, with a separate army, four.

A Division Inspector, two.

A Brigade Inspector, one.

The Quartmaster-General, six.

Deputy Quartermaster-General, with a separate army, four.

A Division Quartermaster, two.

A Brigade Quartermaster, one.

Wagonmaster-General, three.

A principal Deputy, with a separate army, two.

Commissary General, or other equivalent officer, three.

A principal Deputy, with separate army, three.

A Division or Brigade Commissary, one.

A Division or Brigade Wagonmaster, one.

The Adjutant-General, four.

An Assistant, two.

Paymaster-General, or Deputy Paymaster-General, with a separate army, two_

Each Chief of any branch of the Civil Staff, not enumerated with an army,
two.

Each principal Deputy of such Chief, one.

To any other officer of the General Staff", civil or military, who, in the opinion
of the Commanding General may require it, not exceeding two.

HAMILTON TO COLONEL SMITH.
(circular.)

New-York, August 9th, 1799.

Sie:

Our political situation renders it very urgent that not a mo-
ment shall be lost in disciplining our troops ss fast as they shall

296 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

be raised. To this end, it is essential that every officer shall per-
sonally exert himself to the utmost ; and that a very faulty prac-
tice which has occasionally prevailed in our armies, as well as
others, shall be carefully avoided, nameljj, commanders of regi-
ments leaving too much to their majors, these to the adjutants,
and the company officers to their sergeants.

It is expected that each commandant of a regiment will him-
self industriously exercise his regiment in the manual and evolu-
tions ; that each major will do the like in his battalion, and the
company officers in their several companies. These last must
charge themselves with the detail of instructing their men from ,
the beginning ; using their non-commissioned officers as auxilia-
ries, not as their representatives or substitutes ; and the field
officers must carefully superintend the company officers in rela-
tion to this detail.

This course will have the double advantage of insuring the
rapid improvement of the soldiers, and of giving every officer
practical expertness within his sphere, without which an army is
nothing but a mass of disorderly elements.

In the reply which I expect to make to -the several corps, I
hope for the gratification of observing, in the proficiency of offi-
cers and men, that the instruction contained in this letter has
been carefully and zealously executed.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, August 10, 1799.
I imagine, my dear sir, by the letter which the post of yes-
terday brought me from you, that you had supposed that some-
thing, not quite satisfactory to me, had occurred, in relation to
the erection of a hospital at Khode Island. This, I assure you,
has not been the case, nor has any thing come under my view
which could lead me to think that there has been cause for
blame in any quarter.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 297

It happened that the Secretary of War, in requiring my
agency in the matter, does not give me a simple direction to act,
which would be warrant enough for me, but refers me to the
law respecting the medical establishment, as the source of my
authority. There I find none to use, to purchase ground in fee
simple, and erect upon it a building for a hospital. For that,
the power of the physician-general, with approbation of the Pre-
sident, is alone competent by the act.

I see not, however, if there be a fund, (whether in the appro-
priations for contingencies or otherwise,) why there may not be a
building on any ground now of the United States, to be used
either as barracks or as a hospital, and certainly not why a tem-
porary provision, by hiring of ground and buildings for the pur-
pose, may not be made, either by the War or Navy Department.

As to the union of hospitals for navy and array under one
system of direction, so far as they are to be supported by the
funds of the government alone, I perceive no objection to the
law respecting the medical establishment, while I discover no in-
convenience. I am clear the union will conduce to economy.
Adieu, my dear sir ; yours truly.

HAMILTON TO IvrHENRY.

New- York, August 13, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Every day must prove more and more to every body that it
is impossible to serve two masters. I cannot be a general and a
practiser of the law at the same time, without doing injustice to
the government and myself. Hence I am anxious to disentan-
gle myself more completely than I have yet done from forensic
pursuits. But to be able to do this, I must call to my succor all
the emoluments which I have a right to claim. Hitherto I have
had neither quarters, nor fuel, nor servants. The two last I shall
take measures for myself. But the former I have some scruples

298 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

about, and wisli an instruction concerning it from you, wliicli
may be addressed as well to General Pinckney as to myself. On
this article, too, I have no doubt of my right to order the person
acting as quartermaster, to provide quarters for me and my suite.
Every commanding general has this right, and situated as I am,
in a time of no active operations, with the force under my com-
mand dispersed to various points, I have no doubt that the strict-
est propriety accords with my personal station being where it is,
and that in this station it is in every view fit that I should have
provided at public expense for myself and suite, a house as quar-
ters suited to my rank and command. The procuring of a better
one than I now occupy would be strictly justifiable ; but it is not
my wish to do it.

How do you construe the 4th section of the act of March 3d,
1797, respecting double rations, in reference to the officers ap-
pointed under the act for augmenting the army?

This question has, in cases foreign to the spirit of the provi-
sion, come up from some of the officers of the twelve additional
regiments ; and it will probably soon come up in others. It is
important to the two major-generals, as well as others ; and it
ought to apply to them. Yet the law must not be strained,
but future provision made where the existing one is deficient.

You must not think me rapacious. I have not changed
my character. But my situation as commanding general exposes
me to much additional expense in entertaining officers occa-
sionally in the city of New- York, and citizens and foreigners
who come to pay their respects to the commanding general;
and adding this consideration to the circumstance of a wife and
six children, whose maintenance and education are to be taken
care of, I shall stand in need of all I can fairly get from the
public, if I am essentially to renounce my profession.
Adieu.

iET.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 299

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New- York, August 13, 1799.

Sir:

It is now time to take measures for tlie establisliment of the
additional regiments in winter quarters.

It has been already determined to dispose of them in four
bodies, and the positions generally have been designated. These
positions will, of course, be adhered to, unless alterations shall
become expedient from considerations relative to the comparative
prices of rations at different places. It is necessary speedily to
understand whether any deviations will result from this source,
which has been heretofore a subject of correspondence between
us.

As to mode, I incline to that of huts. Every thing in our
military establishment is too unsettled to justify the expense of
permanent barracks, and the hiring of quarters in towns will be
adverse to the health and discipline of the troops, and may lead
to disorders, unfriendly to harmony between the citizens and the
soldiery.

The experience of last war has proved that troops cannot be
more comfortable in any way than in huts ; and these they can
build themselves. Perhaps as these in question are quite raw, it
may be expedient where they do not happen to have carpenters
among themselves, to indulge each regiment with the aid of a
few to be procured on hire, who may direct the mode of construc-
tion, and lend a helping hand to the huts of the officers. The
ground will be to be hired. The material for building must be
found upon each spot. If you approve, and as soon as I shall
receive from you the information which is to guide as to prices
of rations, I will give directions to the respective contractors to
procure the ground, with the co-operation, where it can be con-
veniently had, of the agent for the War Department, and of the
commandant of a regiment nearest to the intended site.

Any suggestions which you shall think fit to make with
regard to the detail, will receive careful attention.

300 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 42

Applications liave been made to me to authorize the providing
of a wagon and four horses for the use of each regiment. It is
suggested that for the transportation of fuel and straw and for a
variety of current services, many difficulties attend the continual
dependence on the contractor, which would be obviated by a
wagon attached to the regiment. I am of opinion that the
measure is right, and would direct it to be put in execution, but
that it is my rule to enter into no new arrangement involving
expense without previous recourse to you, where there is no
pressure of circumstances to require immediate decision.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, August 19th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I return you the papers of Mr. Williams, which you sent me
at his desire for perusal. The explanation and your final opinion
of the affair have given me pleasure, as I should be sorry that
any circumstance of improper conduct should have stood in the
way of the employment of Mr. Williams.

I regret extremely that obstacles should exist to the requiring

of the resignation of Mr. . You are apprised of the good

opinion I entertain of the probity of this gentleman, and of his
talents for business within a sphere of action which will admit of
an immediate personal attention to every thing which is to be
done. But you are no less apprised of my perfect conviction of
his incompetency, at his present time of life, to exercise an office
which embraces extensive and complicated objects; in which
system and arrangement and various combinations are necessary.
It is a satire upon our government that he cannot for whatever
cause be removed. The number of powerful connections, which
he has, is, I trust not, the obstacle. If it has any weight, I
think it may be relied upon that the most influential of them
would, from conviction, acquiesce in the propriety of the measure.

^T. 42.] 'MILITARY PAPERS. 301

But if he must remain, certainly tliere ought to be no ceremony
about giving him good assistance whether of his own choice or
not. In this it is most regular that the two departments concur.
But if they cannot, as Secretary of War I should not hesitate to
insist, that he should employ such organs as I deemed requisite
for executing well the business of my department.

You observe, that no present inconvenience attends the sus-
pension of such a measure. Believe me the service every where
is suffering for the want of proper organization. It is one thing
for business to drag on, — another for it to go on well. The
business of supply in all its branches (except as to provi^ons),
proceeds heavily, and without order or punctuality, — in a man-
ner equally ill adapted to economy on a large scale, as to efl&ciency
and the contentment of the army. It is painful to observe how
disjointed and piecemeal a business it is : — among other evils is
this, thit the head of the War Department and the chief of the
several divisions of the army exhaust their time in details, which
beyond a general superintendence are foreign to them, and plans
for giving perfection to our military system are unavoidably ne-
glected.

Let me repeat, my dear friend, my earnest advice, that you
proceed to organize without delay the several branches of the
department of supply ; that is, to fix the places and appoint the
agents. You will experience great relief and many advantages
from it. The saving from better management will infinitely
overpay the expense of salaries. The contractors who feel little
responsibility execute very carelessly every thing in which they
are merely agents. The increase of numbers will make this a
very important consideration.

Supplies in general are neither duly procured nor duly for-
warded, frequently not of good quality nor agreeing in kind, —
and the system of accountability, excellent in theory, I venture
to say, entirely fails in execution. The inevitable consequence
is that there must be great waste of property. It is in vain to have
good plans if there are not proper organs for execution. Every
new step to be taken is attended with embarrassment for want
of organization.

302 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

It is mucli to be regretted that Carrington was not appointed
quartermaster-general according to the new arrangement, before
the last session of the Senate ended, so that every thing in that
branch of service might be now in complete train.

If his appointment is determined upon, will it not be well to
notify the intention to him, and to prevail upon him to come to
the seat of government, to the end that you may concert with him
the proper arrangement. Till the Commander-in-Chief take the
field his residence would very naturally be at or near the seat of
government, and you would find his assistance in every view
very valuable.

I have heretofore requested Mr. Hodgdon to send me from
time to time a return of the supplies which he forwards. This
may save you the trouble of reading applications for things which
have been done. The request has not been complied with. I
do not mention this by way of complaint, but for information,
to induce you to give him a specific direction. Once a week
such a return ought to be made to you, and a duplicate might be
sent to me.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, August 21, 1799.

Sir:

I was yesterday honored with your letter of the 14th instant.

The recommendations of Captains Taylor and Blue will not
fail to be considered when the situation of things is mature for
the appointment of brigade inspectors.

Inclosed you will find a general abstract of the recruiting
returns, which at its date were received at the office of the Adju-
tant-General. Other information induces me to estimate that the
number now actually enlisted for eleven of the twelve additional
regiments exceeds thousand. The other is not yet in activity.

I ought to have informed you before this that General Wil-
kinson had arrived at this place. I have delivered to him heads

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 303

of inquiry and conference, whicli embrace all the material points
of consideration in our western affairs. He is busily engaged in
reporting upon tbem ; written rather than verbal communications
being by him preferred. The result of our consultations will be
transmitted to you for any direction which you may see fit to give.
With the truest respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO HARRISON.

New- York, Aug. 24, 1799.

Sir:

Attempts are making in different parts of the country to pro-
cure the enlargement of soldiers on writs of habeas corpus issued
by and returnable before State judges. As this practice will
probably involve serious consequences, it becomes necessary for
me to avail myself of the information of those officers of the
United States who are particularly charged with the considera-
tion of legal questions. I wish, therefore, for your deliberate
opinion, distinguishing between courts and individual judges, on
the legality of this practice, and especially on the effect of a re-
turn to the writ, that the person demanded had been duly enlisted
by an officer of the United States, in conformity with the laws
and with his instructions. You will also be pleased to consider
whether upon such a return it is necessary to produce the person
who is the object of the habeas corpus. The charge for this
opinion you will make against the Department of War.

HAMILTON TO M<^HENRY.

August 25, 1799.
I must again press for the settlement of a rule of promotion.
It is essential to fix principles and the conditions and expecta-

304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^T. 42.

tions of officers as fast as possible. The army never will be or-
ganized and in order unless points are successively established as
they occur to consideration, and, when established, strictly ad-
hered to. The total defect of organization in the western army
(the extent of which I did not know till very lately) has increased
my solicitude for another course of things, lest we get every
where into inextricable chaos. I send you an arrangement of
the seventh regiment, in conformity with my idea, which I hope
may be adopted.

CIECULAR.

New-York, August 27, 1799.

Sir:

In military service it is essential that each individual should
move within his proper sphere, according to a just gradation and
the relations which subsist between him and others. It is a con.
sequence of this principle that a regular chain of communication
should be preserved, and that, in all matters relating to service, each
person should address him for information or direction to his im-
mediate superior ofl&cer, and should not step beyond him to a
higher authority. This observation of course excepts the case
where an individual, having received an injury from his immediate
superior, is disposed to seek redress from the superior of both ;
but in other cases the principle ought to be rigidly observed.

It is not so in practice. I have received communications
from captains of companies, which in propriety ought to have
been addressed to the commandants of their regiments or of the
districts within which thev were stationed ; and I know that com-
munications have in some instances been made by particular offi-
cers to the Secretary of War, which ought to have been addressed
to me. These things are not regular, and must be avoided. The
good of the service and the dignity of every officer, from the
highest to the lowest, require that they should not prevail. The
officers and persons attached to the army, who are charged with

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 306

the expenditure of money and Avitli the providing or issuing of
supplies, will properly correspond with the Department of War
on those subjects ; but every other officer ought to address him-
self to his immediate chief, and the chiefs of corps or distinct
commands must make their communications to me, except in the
cases in which particular regulations direct otherwise.

To apply the rule. The officers must not go beyond you
with their verbal or written communications ; you must address
yours to me, except —

1st. Returns and applications respecting ordnance, arms,
accoutrements, and other military stores, clothing, articles of
quartermaster's supply, hospital stores, including medicines,
which for the present must be addressed to Ebenezer Stevens,
Esquire, agent for the War Department in New-York (the
proper officers in respect to these objects not being yet ap-
pointed).

2d. Monthly and other returns respecting the numbers and
state of corps and detachments, including inspection and recruit-
ing returns, which must be addressed to Brigadier-General North,
Adjutant-General.

8d. Muster and pay-rolls to Caleb Swan, Esquire, Paymaster-
General, at the seat of government.

These last had best be forwarded by the respective pay-
masters of regiments and detachments, where any exists.

The Paymaster-General has been advised to confine his com-
munications to paymasters, and to such others as have received
public money, for which they are accountable directly to the
War Department.

It is expected that other officers will shortly be appointed
and annexed to headquarters, to whom the objects under the
first and third heads will properly belong.

This, when it takes place, will be announced in general
orders.

You will take care to make these instructions known within:
the sphere of your command.

E 20

306 HA'MILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON" TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, September 2d, 1799.

Sir:

Your letter of the 29th instant is received. I shall conform
to what I understand to be the spirit of the practice of which it
gives examples. It is right not to make an extra allowance to
officers for performing a military duty at a place where they are
stationed^ or where they actually are resident^ or where this is a
military post^ at which they can be accommodated as usual, ex-
cept for travelling from another place to that post. But I sub-
mit that this is not applicable to a person, not a member of the
army, who may be specially designated to such a duty. Nor do
I think that it consists with the dignity or policy of the govern-
ment to desire the service of such a person grcdis. A person not
of the army acting as Judge Advocate, ought, in my opinion, to
be compensated. Trials in some instances exhaust too large a
portion of time to be employed for a public purpose, without an
equivalent. It will be agreeable to me, in the three instances in
which I have been the agent, to announce that an allowance is
to be received. I have thought of three dollars per day. The
persons are, Mr. Hare, in the trial of Captain Vance ; Mr. Mor-
ton, in the trial of Captain Frey ; and Doctor Osborne and Mr.
Malcom, in those of Major Hoops and Captain Cochran. The
state of the military hereafter will obviate the necessity of incur-
ring a similar expense.

In the case of the court-martial of which Major Wilcox was
president, I applied the regulations of December, 1798, though
from the wording of them, I thought there might be some doubt
of their applicability, but your construction will solve the doubt.
It is the convenient one.

I shall announce to the several commandants, that law and
usage consider the two dollars per head as the equivalent for
the extra expenses of recruiting officers, and that no further al-
lowance can be made.

Nothing is more just than your observation, " that officers,

Mt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 307

instead of encouraging the complaints of their men on the occa-
sions to which you refer, ought to endeavor to satisfy them that
the article complained of, for some good reason, could not be
otherwise." I have inculcated this doctrine in different in-
stances, and shall make it a subject of a circular instruction.

You add that nothing is more common among officers, than
complaints about every thing furnished by the public. I am in-
clined to believe with you, that the spirit of complaining is apt
to be carried to an excess. But it is important, when it is ob-
served to prevail, to inquire with candor and calmness whether
it has not been produced in whole or in part from real causes of
complaint. If it has, it is then essential that any defects in the
public plan which may ha,ve occasioned them, should be cor-
rected.

This is essential for two reasons; one that justice, the suc-
cess of the service and the public good require that right should
be done to the troops; the other, that the doing of it will most
certainly and effectually remedy the evil.

In a new army especially, the force of discipline can hardly
be expected to stifle complaint if material ground for it truly ex-
ist. To be frank on this point is a duty. Viewing the matter
from a variety of positions in which I have stood, it is an opinion
of some standing with me, that the supply of the army, except
in the article of provisions, has been most commonly so defec-
tive as to render a considerable degree of discontent a natural
consequence. In some instances the quality of articles, in others
their form or workmanship, have been faulty ; in others they
have been supplied too irregularly and too much by retail.

These things, amidst a revolution, will be acquiesced in. In
the first essays of a new government, this will be tolerated ; but
in a more mature state of its affairs, as that of ours at present, a
government should not stand in need of indulgence from its
armies. In strict justice to them, it should lay the foundation
of an absolute claim to their strict obedience and rigid compli-
ance with every duty.

In recurring to ideas of this sort, I only embrace an occasion
which seems to call for the expression of them. I well know

308 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

your disposition to ameliorate our plan, I count upon the suc-
cess of your efforts, but till tlie amelioration has been exempli-
fied, you are not to wonder if murmurs continue, and it will not
be my fault if they are not as moderate as possible.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, Sept. 2d, 1799.

Sir:

A rule respecting the allowance of barracks and quarters is
wanting. I submit to your consideration the following scale :

To a major-general, for himself, four rooms ; for each aid, one
room and a kitchen.

To a brigadier-general, for himself, four rooms ; for his aidj
one room and a kitchen.

To the inspector-general, in addition to his allowance as
major-general, two rooms for offices, and one for his secretary.

To the quartermaster-general, in addition to his allowance as
major-general, two rooms for offices, and one for each assistant
or clerk.

To the adjutant-general and each principal deputy with a
separate army, the additional allowance of two rooms for offices.

To each field-officer, two rooms ; to each captain, one ; to
each of the regimental staff, one ; to two subalterns, one ; to
every mess of eight officers, two.

To every inspector or quartermaster of a division or brigade,
one additional room for an office.

To every twelve persons, other than commissioned and staff-
officers, a room of the dimensions of and so in
proportion when rooms shall be greater or smaller.

To the commander-in-chief, or general commanding in a
separate department or district, the allowance may be exceeded,
according to circumstances, of which he must judge upon his re-
sponsibility for any abuse of the discretion.

iET. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 309

The allowance of fuel to general officers requires also to be
regulated. The following scale is submitted : — From the first of
October to the first of April in every year, — To a major-general,
two cords and a half cord per month. To a brigadier-general,
the same quantity. To the inspector-general, the additional
allowance of a cord per montli. To the adjutant-general, and
each principal deputy with a separate army, the additional allow-
ance of a cord per month. To the quartermaster-general the
additional allowance of one cord per month, or such quantity as
the commanding general shall approve. To each inspector or
quarterma.ster of a division or brigade, the additional allowance
of half a cord per month.

From the first day of April to the first of October in every
3^ear, one third of the foregoing allowances.

The commanding general, under special circumstances, may,
by orders in writing, enlarge or diminish the foregoing allow-
ances in cases not provided for.

No compensation in money to be paid or received in lieu of
allowances of fuel.

HAMILTOlSr TO TOUSSAED.

New-York, Sept. 6th, 1799.

Sir:

It has been represented that the fort at Portsmouth wants a
new magazine, new platforms, embrazures ; that the walls re-
quire to be repaired, and the cannon to be mounted.

It is my wish that the state of this post be surveyed, and
.specific report made to me of what raa}^ be indispensable, towards
putting the fort in a state fit for service, with an estimate of the
probable expense.

You will judge whether this service must necessarily be per-
formed by yourself, or whether you can assign to it another
officer, and you will take measures accordingly.

This object is not to be preferred to one more important.

310 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42.

CIRCULAR,

New- York, September 7tli, 1799:

Sir:

It lias been suggested to me that particular officers, in some
instances, have incautiously indulged remarks in the presence of
their men, respecting the bad qualities of articles furnished,
which were of a nature to foster discontent in the minds of the
soldiery. Instances of this sort, I am persuaded, must have
been very rare, as the impropriety of the thing is too glaring to
escape an officer of the least reflection ; and I am convinced it is
only necessary to mention the matter to you, to engage your
endeavors to prevent a similar impnidence. If any articles of
supply are exceptionable, the proper course is to represent it to
me, in order that the remedy, if in my power, may be applied ;
if not, that it may be sought through the Secretary of Wax. Of
my constant exertions to place the army on a comfortable and
respectable footing, no doubt can be entertained.

Desultory observations have from time to time been made to
me, respecting particular articles. I am desirous of having a
special and very accurate report from the commandant of each
regiment, of the quantity and quality of all the articles which
have been received for its use, viz., arms, accoutrements, clothings
tents, and camp utensils. You will as soon as possible transmit
it to me. Any suggestions "of improvements in any of the arti-
cles which are supplied will be acceptable.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".
(private.)

New-York, September 9th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Two days since I received from General AA^ilkinson a re-
port of which I now send you the original. You will find it

iET. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 311

intelligent and interesting. Perhaps on the score of intrinsic
propriety, it deserves to be adopted to a larger extent than some
collateral and extraneous considerations may permit.

I had previously thought of the subject, but had purposely
limited myself to a few very general ideas, that I might examine
with the less prepossession the plan of an officer, who, possessing
talents to judge, has for years had his mind occupied with the
scene to which he refers. Since the receipt of his plan, I have
assiduously contemplated it with the aid of a full personal expla-
nation; and my judgment has formed a result, though not defi-
nitive, but liable to revision. I adopt several of the leading ideas
of the General, but I vary in some particulars ; as well because I
think the change might be too strong with reference to its influ-
ence on public opinion, and the feelings of the parts of the
country immediately concerned, as because it seems to me that
motives of real weight dictate a modification of his plan.

Premising that one complete regiment of infantry should be
left for Tennessee and the frontiers of Georgia, I would propose
the following disposition for the remaining three of the old regi-
ments, and for the battalion of artillerists and the two troops of
dragoons allowed for the western army. It is taken for granted
that the plan must contemplate onlji the four old regiments of
infantry, (with those portions of artillerists and dragoons,) inas-
much as these are the only infantry regarded by our system as
permanent. The twelve additional regiments will dissolve, of
course, as to the non-commissioned officers and privates, by the
simple fact of the settlement of our dispute with France.

Let these troops be disposed as follows, viz. :

A Battalion of Infantry and a Company and a haf of Artillery.

Niagara. — Two companies of infantry and a half company
of artillery.

Detroit. — Three companies of infantry and one company of
artillery, to furnish a detacliment for

Michilijnackinac, of a subaltern, two sergeants, and twenty -four
rank and file infantry, and a sergeant and twelve artillerists.

312 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

A Battalion of Infantry and a Com'pany of Artillery.

Fort Fayette and Pittslmrgh. — One company of infantry and
a quarter of a company of artillery.

Fort Wayne. — One company of infantry and a quarter of a
company of artillery.

Fort Massac. — Three companies of infantry and half a com-
pany of artillery, to furnish detachments for

Fort Knox. — A sergeant and eight rank and file.

Fort Piclcering^ Chickisaw Bluffs. — A subaltern, two sergeants,
and twenty-four rank and file.

A Battalion of Infantry and a Company of Artillery.

Fort Adams ^ loftus Heights. — A battalion of infantry and a
company of artillery, to furnish for

Fort /Stoddart, Junction of Alabama and Tomhigbee Rivers^ Ha-
bile.— Not exceeding a company of infantry and a quarter of a
company of artillery.

There will then remain a regiment and a battalion of infantry,
half a company of artillerj^, and two troops of dragoons. Let
these be stationed at some convenient point at or near the Rapids
of the Ohio^ to form an army of observation, and act as exigencies
may require.

The other posts now occupied to be relinquished.

A few remarks will illustrate the reasons of this plan.

As a general principle, it is desirable to concentrate the force
as much as possible. This tends to efficiency for action, to the
preservation of order and discipline, and to the promoting of
economy. It is conceived that the occupying a small number of
critical points with a reserve of force to support an attack will be
more impressive on the Indians than the dissipation of the whole
force among a gi-eat number of small posts. This reserve ought
to be so placed as to look to all the principal objects, and it may,
as an incidental one, with propriety, look to that of preventing
or suppressing insurrections. The concentration of force, with a
proper disposition, will render the maintenance of it far less ex-
pensive than if subdivided into small and scattered portions.

These more particular considerations co-operate.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 313

As to Niagara and Detroit. — 'The effectual possession of the
Sti^aits which connect Lake Erie on the one side with the On-
tario, on the other witli the Huron, appears to me very material
as a security against British attack, and as a means of controlling
the northern and northwestern Indians, by enabling us to ob-
struct communication. These points are mentioned because they
now exist as posts; but the Straits ought to be reviewed by a
skilful engineer, and such points selected as will be most de-
fensible, and will best command the Straits. The force proposed
for these stations at present is inadequate in a prospective view ;
but as there is a probability of a continuance of good understand-
ing with Great Britain for some time, it is conceived that it may
now suffice for the sake of obtaining a respectable cori^s de reserve,
to be augmented as our military means may increase.

When the proper points shall have been definitively selected,
it would be my plan to have at each station a regular fortification,
requiring a garrison of from 500 to 1,000 men, as the nature of
the ground to be occupied may indicate, with a citadel in each,
defensive by from two to three hundred men. These, in times
of complete harmony with Great Britain, may suffice ; but, on
the appearance of approaching differences, to be increased to the
complement. The posts at all times to be supplied for a siege.
The progress of settlement will speedily furnish the means of
prompt reinforcement.

As to Michilimackinac. — The only motive for retaining this post
is to preserve the occupancy of an old communication in some
sort calculated to influence the Indians. As to trade, it is now
only useful to the British, and likely to continue so for some
years, except in so far as they find it their interest to turn their
trade into our channels. There are here a few white families,
supposed to be able to furnish about sixty arm-bearing men, who
are said to be well disposed to our government, and who cer-
tainly, in a controversy merely with the Indians, would co-
operate with the garrison. A small one is deemed sufficient for
the present purpose of the post. For this an additional reason
is, that the maintenance of troops there is excessively costly.
Any greater force which, with our present total, could be thought

314 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.&. 42.

of for that station, must be considered as a corps perdu in case of
Avar with Britain, as it would be entirely out of the reach of suc-
cor. Consequently, the smaller the force there, if sufficient for
the other objects, the better. It is to be observed as to this place,
that the Indians whose situations are relative to it, are, in no
view, formidable. The insular situation is a further security.

As to Fort Fayette. — It may be doubtful whether any force
here is really essential, and whether, as being a mere depot, it
may not be left, as at other places, to the safeguard of the inhab-
itants; but, considering that it is a portal to the western countr}^,
and that disaffection to the government has been shown by the
inhabitants of the neighboring country, the force proposed is
deemed expedient as a guard and as a rallying point to the well-
affected.

As to Fort Wayne. — The critical situation of this place with
regard to a number of different Avaters, and the influence of its
immediate aspect upon the most warlike of the Indians in that
quarter, make it, in my view, a post to be maintained, contrary
to the idea of General Wilkinson.

As to Fort Massac. — This being another portal, and the great
outlet for the commodities of the Northwestern Territory, Ken-
tucky, &c., it appears to me that, for obvious reasons, it ought to
be secured by a strong regular fortification and a respectable gar-
rison.

As to Fort Knox. — There has been for some time no more
force than is now proposed, which is only necessary as a guard.
The settlement is of itself an overmatch for the feeble Indians in
the vicinity ; who, besides, will be within the speedy stroke of
the main body.

As to Fort Pichering. — The considerations mentioned by Gen-
eral Wilkinson are referred.

As to Fort Adams. — I make the like reference. This is an
essential point. It is on a height which completely commands
the river and the surrounding country, and, according to General
Wilkinson, can easily be put in a state to defy every thing but
famine with a garrison of about two hundred men. The force
allowed will always afford this garrison.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 315

As to Fort Stoddart. — This is now occupied witli a company.
It is critical as to an important river. The Indians are in the
habit of seeing it occupied by the Spaniards. It commands an
important communication with the powerful nations of savages
in the neighborhood, and is calculated to have an influence upon
them. It is in the bosom of a white settlement. These are rea-
sons for keeping it as a post. But an objection to it is, that at
present it can with difficulty be supplied otherwise than through
the Spanish teri'itory. To make it proper as a permanent one,
an easy communication through our own territory must be estab-
lished. General Wilkinson says this is j^racticable.

I take no -notice of the other posts suggested by General Wil-
kinson to be established along our southern line ; because, in his
own view they are eventual. The Indians must be first recon-
ciled there. And leaving a regiment for Georgia and Tennessee
there is no present force for the purpose. It is also liable to the
objection of an extreme frittering of our force.

I do not concur with General Wilkinson in the disposition
of the corps de reserve. He would have it in the neighborhood
of Fort Adams (say Natchez). I propose for it the vicinit}^ of the
rapids of the Ohio.

On General Wilkinson's plan its great utility would be nar-
rowed to a point, the meeting in the first instance an invasion
from below, and in case of rupture of a prompt attack upon New
Orleans.

But the strength of the reserve alone could not be relied upon
as adequate to either object. If a superior force from below
should attack, the principal body of our regular force might in
the outset be defeated, dissipated and lost. Thus depriving the
militia of a necessary support might lead to greater misfortunes.
If an attack is to be made, as little as possible should be left to
chance, and consequently the force ought to be greater than the
plan would admit.

The stationing of a large body below would give jealousy to
the Spaniards, and lead to the measure of augmenting their reg-
ular force by drawing reinforcements from some other quarter.

316 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

Stationed above, no jealousy will be excited. For attack or
defence the regular force can descend with the addition of the
force of the country. Concerted and combined operations may
insure efficiency.

In this situation the force will look to various points ; to the
northern Indians, to the disaffected of the neighboring country,
&c., &c. Enough is said. Your reflection will supply the rest.
I send this letter without a copy, that I may not lose a post,
as time and the season urge. Favor me as soon as possible with
your observations and directions, for which I wait.
With the greatest respect and affection,

I have the honor to be, &c., &c..

Your obedient sei^vant,

A. Hamiltois'.

P. S. Presque Isle is a very healthy situation, and capable
of much defence. The neighboring country is growing fast
powerful, so as to take care of itself.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, Sept. 15th, 1799.

Dear Sir :

Mrs. Washington's indisposition (being confmed eight or ten
days) and other circumstances, would not allow me to give your
letter of the 9th instant, and the reports, journals, &c., &c., which
accompanied it, an earlier consideration.

Having done this, however, with as much thought as I have
been able to bestow under the circumstances mentioned, I can
see no cause (with the limited force which has been enumerated,
and which, I presume, is all that can be calculated upon) to differ
from you in the disposition of it. Although, at the same time, I
shall make some observations thereupon for consideration.

It may be remembered, that at the time the Secretary of War

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 317

laid before tlie General Officers in Philadelphia, the letters of
General Wilkinson respecting the propriety (in his judgment) of
placing a considerable force at the Natchez, I gave it my decided
disapprobation, inasmuch as it would excite in the Spaniards dis-
trust and jealousy of our pacific disposition, would cause an
augmentation of force on their part ; and so on with both, if our
government would go into the measure, until the tiling which
was intended to be avoided would, more than probable, be pro-
duced— that is, hostility — whereas, keeping that force in the upper
country, besides its looking to all points, and exciting no alarm
in any, might, if occasion should require it, either for defence or
offence, descend the stream like lightning, with all its munitions
and equipments, which could be accumulated with ease, and
without noise at the upper posts, and make the surprise more
complete.

Although I have said (in effect) that the corps de reserve, or
army of observation, should take post at the place you have
mentioned, namely, in the vicinity of the rapids of the Ohio
(Louisville), yet I can see but two reasons which entitle it
to be preferred to the present post above, i. e., Fort Washing-
ton, in a geographical point of view ; and these are, that there is
no water above the former that can float large vessels at all
seasons ; and that by being so much lower down, the passage of
the Ohio would be facilitated if an expedition should descend
the Mississippi. In other respects, tha latter, in my opinion,
has the advantage :

1st. Because it is a post already established, and would incur
no additional expense.

2d. Because it is more contiguous to Fort Wayne, Detroit,
Michilimackinac, and all the Indians on the Lakes from whom, in
that quarter, we have most danger to apprehend.

3d. Because communications with it (and for the most part
by water) are already established. And,

4th. In case of insurrections above or below, it is equally as
well, if not better, situated.

Were it not that the mouth of the Wabash empties itself into
the Ohio so low down, and yet above its confluence with Cum-

318 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

berland and Tennessee, I should be inclined to give a position ,
thereabouts the preference of either the Eapids or Fort Washing-
ton ; because it Avould command a great water inlet towards the
Lakes.

But whether the position of the coj-jos de reserve be chosen at
the Rapids of the Ohio — above or below — it had better, I con-
ceive, be on the north side of the Ohio than within the State of
Kentucky ; thereby impeding more the intercourse between the
army and the citizens, and guarding against the evils which re-
sult from that mixture and too much familiarity,

I am so far from agreeing with General Wilkinson, that
Fort Wayne ought to be abolished, that if I mistake not the
place (central between the heads of the Miamis of Lake Erie
and the Ohio, the St, Joseph and the Wabash), affording good
water transportation, with small portages in every direction, I
would pronounce it (were it not for the expense of subsisting
troops there) the most eligible position for the army of observa-
tion of any in that country. It would be an effectual security
against all the Indians who could annoy us in that region ; it
would cover our barrier posts on the line between the British
and us ; and troops from thence might descend rapidly into the
Mississippi by the Wabash,

General Wilkinson, in speaking of posts along our southern
frontier, is general, and you onl}^ notice Fort Stoddart. But on
an inspection of the maps, a place presents itself to my view, as
very eligible to occupy, j)rovided the Creek Indians would con-
sent to it. I mean the Apalachicola, at its confluence with Flint
Eiver, where the line of demarcation strikes it.

But, in my opinion, if we had or could obtain an engineer of
real skill, and attached to the true policy and interest of the
United States, he ought to devote his whole time to the investi-
gation of our interior country, and mark and erect its proper
defences ; for these, hitherto, have been more the work of chance
and local consideration than national design.

If the harbor of Presque Isle is good, I should think a small
garrison ought to be retained there. It certainly is the best on
the American side of Lake Erie, and one there is important ;

.Ex. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 319

but I see very little use of a sergeant and eight priv^ates at Fort
Knox.

It is either unnecessary or too small, and sergeants at a dis-
tance rarely conduct well, when they have not the eye of an
officer to inspect their conduct.

There are several references in General Wilkinson's report
which were not sent. No. 1 appears to have been essential.
They are all returned.

By his statement of the mutilated condition of the troops,
and present disposition of them, there must have been most hor-
rible mismanagement somewhere. A corrective is indeed highly
necessary. The practice of furloughing officers, and then re-
newing the furloughs from time to time, is extremely injuri-
ous to the service, and ought to be discontinued on ordinary
occasions.

And that of frittering the army into small garrisons is, if pos-
sible, worse. It will never be respectable where these evils
exist ; and until it can be more concentrated, and garrisons fre-
quently relieved by detachments from the main body, discipline
will always be lax, and impositions on the public will prevail.

If the British are resolved to keep up armed vessels on the
Lakes, I presume it will be expedient for us to do the same ;
but in time of peace, a better way, in my opinion, is for neither
to have an3^ In case of a rupture, or the appearance of one,
with that nation, there can be no doubt of our armino- on
those waters much more expeditiously than they would be able
to do.

I have now gone over the material points in your letter and
General Wilkinson's report, but, as I mentioned before, it has
been done under circumstances unfavorable to minute investiga-
tion or mature deliberation, and my sentiments, where differing
from you, given more for consideration than decision.

Should any thing of importance on this subject, not noticed,
here occur to me, I shall not fail to communicate it to you ; for
the measures now taken with respect to guarding our frontiers
and interior country ought to be such as will be permanent
and respectable.

With very great regard, I am, dear Sir, &;c.

320 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

HAMILTON TO ^fHENRY.

New-York, September 16, 1799.

Sir:

In recurring to your letter of the 29th of August, I observe
there are points which, for a clear understanding, require from
me some observations.

I shall make this preliminary remark, that in presenting them
with emphasis, as I am accustomed to do, I am actuated by the
sole and exclusive motive of showing by particular instances that
the past plan has been productive of imperfect results, and that
more comprehensive and adequate measures are necessary for
the future.

Our provisions have been made too much on the spur of the
occasion, have been too generally confined to the absolutely ne-
cessary for the moment, rejecting the idea of surplus for future
casualties and exigencies. This defect in our plan is not imputa-
ble to any one individual. It may be traced partly to the im-
maturity of our institutions and aftairs, and partly to errors of
opinion which embraced persons in various situations.

I am sensible that important steps, both legislative and ad-
ministrative, have been taken towards a more provident and
efficacious system ; but a frequent contemplation of the imper-
fections of the past plan ought to have the effect of increasing
the tendency towards improvement.

I must at the same time be permitted to add, that in my
opinion, the want of a proper organization of agents in the vari-
ous branches of the public service, and of a correct and systema-
tic delineation of their relative duties, has been a material cause
of the imperfect results which have been experienced ; that it
continues to embarrass every operation, and that while it lasts it
cannot fail to enfeeble and disorder every part of the service.

To exemplify the present defect of organization, it is suffi-
cient to refer to the situation of the Quartermaster-General's de-
partment, of the medical establishment, and of that of the Pay
Office. The Paymaster-General, with propriety, is stationed at

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 321

the seat of government ; but he has no deputy either at my head-
quarters or at that of General Pinckney.

I am sensible that where the appointment of the chief re-
quires the consent of the Senate, it must now be deferred to
the future meeting of that body, and that the subordinate per-
sons whom the law places in the choice of those chiefs, cannot be
constituted without them; but temporary arrangements may
still be made as a substitute ; and I confess my anxiety that this
may be done, either immediately by you or by your direction to
General Pinckney and myself, each to regulate the matter within
the sphere of his command.

Permit me earnestly to request that this business of organ-
ization in all its branches may engage a prompt and decisive
attention. Till this shall have been the case, no commanding
officer can perform well his peculiar duties; as his time and atten-
tion might be engrossed in details, which are foreign to his sta-
tion. And the consequence must be inefficiency and disorder.

I proceed to some particulars of your letter.

" You observe that you consider it as the duty of the com-
manding general not only to make returns of all articles^ among
these clothing wanted for his troops, but to make them in such,
season as to allow of making up and transporting them to their
destinations."

If this idea shall be adhered to, I shall be very ready to per-
form my part ; but I should wish a more precise definition of
the objects. What are the articles to be embraced? There are
some objects, as artillery, muskets, &c., of which it is always to
be presumed there are sufficient quantities constantly ready in
the public arsenals and magazines. What time or times will be
deemed proper for the transmission of the returns? Are the
destinations in detail to be pointed out or not ?

But I beg leave to recommend the point to a serious reconsi-
deration ; and I will take the liberty to offer some reflections in
relation to it, which seem to me to deserve attention.

The total force which is to compose the military establish-
ment is regulated by law. That force as prescribed by law, is
itself the standard of all ordinary supplies to he provided, which.
E 21

322 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 42.

ouglit always rather to exceed than fall short of the comple-
ment. The Secretary of War consequently possesses ipso facto
the rule which is to govern as to providing all fixed and stated
supplies.

If this force is to be divided into different armies, still the
aggregate of supply must be the same. Besides, that distribu-
tion will be arranged by the Secretary of War in concert with
the Commander-in-Chief If left to the discretion of the latter,
he only is competent to furnish the criterion.

It follows, that the principal articles of supply, all those which
are not dependent on the particular nature of military move-
ments, will always depend on the establishment, and will not be
to be regulated by the returns from particular generals.

The temporary strength of corps, at one time increased by
the accession of recruits, at another diminished by the casualties
of service, ought never to be a guide in providing ; because such
a standard is fluctuating and uncertain, and because the supply
•ought to be commensurate with the full complement of the es-
tablishment.

The commanding general, who should have to present an es-
timate to the head of the War Department, (and whose agency as
•to the ordinary and stated supplies is rendered unnecessary by
the circumstance of there being other data previously in the pos-
session of the department,) would be bound to govern himself
in his estimate by the scale of the establishment, and not by the
temporary state of things.

Eequisitions, fivm time to time^ for the issuing of supplies,
may fall under a different consideration. These would have ref-
erence to the actual state of the forces ; but these do not answer
to the import of the terms you employ, which appear to aim at
some annual, or other periodical estimate to govern the providing
as well as the issuing of the articles.

Premising these things as objections to the idea you have
suggested in its full latitude, it remains to examine what is the
proper course.

The head of the War Department must no doubt be aided
by agents who are conversant in the various branches of supply
.and competent judges of what may be wanted.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS, 323

These agents ouglit to be certain officers, or boards established
at the seat of government, more permanently fixed in their sta-
tions than the precarious commander of a particular army ; such
as the purveyor of supplies, a board or master of ordnance ; or,
instead of these, the inspector of artillery, the superintendent of
military stores ; which officers ought to be aided by information
from the chiefs of the branches of supply connected with the army^
as in our present system, the quartermaster-general, &c. &c.

These latter officers being under the direction of the military
commanders, would be obliged to communicate with them to re-
ceive their instructions, and to inform them of what is done or
intended, so that they may be apprised of the competency of the
provision made or to be made, and may be able to direct calls,
or to represent to the head of the War Department such further
provisions as they may judge expedient.

As to the supplies to be from time to time issued, requisi-
tions ought to come from the chiefs of the several branches of sup-
ply, acting with the armies, to those officers loho at the seat of gov-
ernment are charged loith providing and furnishing the respective
articles.

As on the one hand, the complement of the establishment
will be the guide in providing, so on the other, the returns of
actual force to the Secretary of War from the commander of each
army, will, in the first instance, be a collateral guide to the offi-
cers, and a check upon extravagant demands, and the accounts
afterwards to be rendered will show the application.

The forming of the permanent arsenals and magazines of a
country, which ought to be always prepared to furnish the prin-
cipal articles of supply, is naturally a work of administration,
predicated upon an entire view of the political and military rela-
tions, and the forces and resources of the country. When these
are thus formed, how few are the objects to which the estimate of
a particular general can apply ? How are the partial and de-
tached estimates of several particular generals to reach the full
extent of the supplies aggregately necessary ? How is each to
make his estimate of what may be requisite, unless each has un-
der his eye the entire state of all the national arsenals and maga-

324 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42.

zines, and enters into a minute examination of all the issues
whicli may have been made ? If he is to do all this upon his
own responsibility, what time will he have for his purely mili-
tary duties ? Is it proper in theory that each general having a
separate command, should possess a complete view of the state
of all the public arsenals and magazines ?

I conclude, that from the nature of the thing, the business of
procuring and of issuing supplies ought in a general view to
be unconnected with the particular commander of a particular
army ; that it is properly a business of administration, in which
the head of the War Department is to be aided by the subordi-
nate organs of his department stationed at the seat of govern-
ment, and by the heads of the several branches of supply who
act with the armies.

The agency of the Commander-in-Chief, and the commanders
of particular armies, where requisite, ought to be collateral and
auxiliary, not direct and primary.

It is true, that there is a class of supplies,, which being gov-
erned by the actual operations contemplated, such as transporta-
tion, forage, &c., must be regulated by estimates and returns to
come from the armies. But even in these cases, the responsible
persons to make the estimates and returns, ought to be the chief
or chiefs of the departments of supply with the armies, who
ought previously to submit their estimates and returns to the
military commanders, in order that they may be transmitted
with their opinions and observations.

Thus far, it is conceived, the agency of the commanding
general may be useful and proper. But the scheme of it, as now
indicated, supposes as a preliminary, the appointment of the
proper heads of the several branches of supply.

Indeed, this preliminary is essential to every form of agency
in this respect, which may be assigned to a commanding general.
It is not presumable in principle, and would never be found true
in fact, that the general of an army is so minutely acquainted
with all the details of supply as to be qualified to present a cor-
rect view of all the objects which may be requisite, without the
intervention of those officers whose peculiar province it is to
manage the business of supply.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 325

As to the subject of pay, it would seem from your manner of
expression to be your idea, that the warrant of a commanding
general must be founded on certificates of the 'paymaster-general.
But I must conclude that this cannot be your meaning ; as a
very natural and fair construction of the laws will for this ser-
vice substitute to him his deputy with each army ; and as it is
essential, in practice, that the interpretation should admit of this
substitution. How else are the troops remote from the paymas-
ter-general to be paid at all ? Consider, especially, the position
of the western army.

When the law of the 8th of May, 1792, which charges the
duty on the paymaster-general was passed, there was but one
army — hence that act designates him singly.

But the act of the 3d of March last, contemplating that there
may be several different armies, provides that there shall be a
deputy paymaster-general to each of them, without particularly
defining his duties. It is evident that he must be intended to
perform duties, and important ones ; what are they ? The law
being silent, they are of course all such as the paymaster-general
is to perform where he may be ; except as to any particular one,
which, from the nature of the thing, ought to be confined to the
chief. On any other principles, the deputy Avill be as much ex-
cluded from one duty as from another, Avhich was before per-
formed by his chief, and the appointment will become nugatory.

I infer that all moneys for the purpose of paying the pay, sub-
sistence and forage of the troops, must 'still be delivered in the
first instance by the treasurer to the paymaster-general, because
this is conducive to union and to a regular chain of accounta-
bility \ but that the paymaster is to deliver over to each deputy
in mass a sum sufiicient to answer all these purposes with the
army to which he is attached, and the deputy is to disburse it in
detail, and to exercise all the services preparatory to that dis-
bursement, which by the first law were charged upon the 23ay-
master-general, including that of certifying the sums due, to the
commanding-general.

Principles of law, no less than those of convenience, warrant
this construction, beyond the possibility of doubt, after mature
reflection.

326 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

Accordingly, in consequence of a representation of difficulty,
on the point of warrants, by the paymaster-general, I have ad-
vised him, as the legal and proper remedy, to appoint without
delay one deputy to the troops under the command of General
Pinckney, another to that under my command. I confidently trust
that you will approve, and, if necessary, enforce this advice ; the
ground of it is unquestionably solid.

The course which you indicate in the last paragraph but one
of your letter,, appears to me perfectly correct and convenient.

HAMILTON TO M'HENET.

New-York, Sept. 17, 1799.

Sir:

Part of the contents of your letter of the 10th of July last,,
(which has happened to escape a definitive attention,) being con-
nected with the subject of the 7th of September, I shall reply to
them together.

Previous to the receipt of the last, I had drafted rules relating
to extra expenses, which after careful revision I send for your de-
termination. They contemplate, it will be seen, a discretion, to-
make exceptions in special cases. The rule in such matters can-
not be entirely absolute without involving toa much embarrass-
ment. As the establishment of a general rule will attach a par-
ticular responsibility to each deviation from it, it will, in the
main, prevent unnecessary deviations. The regulations do not
include the restrictions which may be thought fit to be laid on
the commanding generals. These, it is supposed, had better be
the subject of particular communications by letter to those officers.

The two other points mentioned in your letter of the 10th of
July, shall now be attended to.

First, as to compensation or allowances to servants not sol-
diers. It appears to me a clear point, that the resolution of
Congress of March, 1780, is not in force, and consequently can-

iET. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 327

not be an authority for such allowances. There being no other, it
is not seen how any general practice of the government could be
now supported. With regard to the expediency of the practice
on principle, I have strong doubts. I fear that it might lead to
the abuse of compensations for nominal servants, while soldiers
would still be the real ones. Pretexts of sickness, &c., in the
hurry of a campaign might disguise the abuse. I question, too,,
whether in time of peace it would be advisable to augment the
public expense by the addition of persons of this description.

I incline most to the plan of the Great Frederick, which was
to let the officers in time of peace be served by the ordinary sol-
diers ; in time of war, by saperuumeraries, specially enlisted for the
purpose, and discriminated by a distinct uniform or livery, for-
bidding the soldiers of the ranks on any pretence to be employed
in this capacity. This practice procured all: the advantages
without the dangers of the other plan.

The number of servants which it is conceived proper to
allow to the respective grades of officers, are —

To the Commander-in-Chief, or General having a separate
command, three, without arms, to attend him on horseback.

To the Inspector-General, Quartermaster-General, each Major-
General not having a separate command, and to the Adjutant-
General, two of the like description.

To a Brigadier-General, Paymaster-General, Deputy Quarter-
master-General, Deputy Inspector-General, one of the above
description, and one with arms.

To each field-officer, and every other officer who ordinarily
serves on horseback, one of the first mentioned description.

To every officer who usually serves on foot, one with
arms.

The servants required to have arms in all general exercises,
marches, and movements, are to be found in the ranks. When
annexed to officers detached from corps, they must join the
guards connected with such officers or their baggage. In the
cases in which they would be otherwise without arms, if they
are attached to officers of dragoons, they will retain their
arms.

328 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

The drawing of provisions for children appears to me inad-
missible, and, as far as I know, unusual. They are, without
this, incumbrance enough, when in camp or quarters, especially
in the camp of a campaign.

I remark, incidentally, that it is to be wished that a corps of
invalids, and an establishment for the maintenance and educa-
tion of the children of persons in the army and navy, were pro-
vided for by law. Policy, justice, and humanity, forbid the
abandoning to want and misery men who have spent their best
years in the military service of a country, or who, in that ser-
vice, have contracted infirmities which disqualify them to earn
their bread in other modes.

Employment might be found for such a corps, which would
indemnify the public for the mere maintenance of its members
in clothing, lodging, and food. The United States are perhaps
the only country in which an institution of this nature is not to
be found — a circumstance which, if continued, will be discredit-
able. The establishment as to children is recommended by
similar motives, with the additional consideration that they may
be rendered by it useful members of society, and acquisitions to
the army and navy as musicians, &c. I shall wait for your
opinion as to the abolition of issues to children.

You will observe what articles are supposed by me to be
proper to be furnished by the contractors. These are the only
ones which I recollect, as of ordinary and stated supply, that will
not naturally come from the Superintendent of Military Stores.
Contingent or extra articles had better be under the manage-
ment of the agents. As to the scale of allowance in each case,
this has either been regulated by your department, or has al-
ready been the subject of some former communication from me,
except in the instance of forage. I forbear to offer any scale for
this article, because I take it for granted that one is already
established on the basis of long experience.

If you are desirous of a revision of it by me, I shall be ready
to obey your orders for the purpose.*

* One point occurs, in connection with the general suhject of this letter. It ap-
pears to be the practice of accounting officers to reject items in the accounts of

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 329

REGULATIONS EESPECTING CERTAIN SUPPLIES, AND RESPECTING
SPECIAL AND EXTRA EXPENSE.

The several contractors, besides rations, including ardent
spirits and vinegar, shall only provide and furnish quarters, trans-
portation, forage, fuel, straw, stationery, and, where there shall be
no other provision for the purpose, medical assistance.

The quarters intended are those of a temporary kind. The
power to provide them shall not extend to the building or re-
pairing of barracks. In what they furnish, they shall govern
themselves exclusively by the regulations which shall have
been established by law or by the War Department; and,
where none exist, by the orders of the particular commanding
ofiicer.

No barrack or other building shall be erected but by order
of the quartermaster-general, the deputy quartermaster-general,
or, in a separate command, the commander of an army, or
the commander within a separate military district or department,
or of the Secretary of War. No repairs shall be made to any
barrack or building which shall incur a disbursement of money
exceeding fifty dollars ; but, by the like order, where there are
several distinct forts or posts in a subdivision of a great military

contractors which have been furnished, upon the orders of particular military com-
manders, even in cases in which no rule has been prescribed to the contractors-
This, in my opinion, is neither just nor regular. The disbursement, if vouched
by such an order, ought to be admitted to the credit of the contractor, and
charged to the officer, till a satisfectory explanation shall satisfy the department
that it ought to be a public charge. In most cases, when not strictly proper in
the abstract, it will be expedient that the expense shall be defrayed by the pub-
lic, and a repetition prevented by more precise instructions, or, where these have
not been deficient, by the reprehension or punishment of the officer.

One bad consequence of embarrassing the adjustment of the contractor's
accounts, may be, that they will refuse, in cases of the least doubt, to comply
with orders which are dictated by necessary and emergent services. Besides
that, on principle two discretions in undefined cases are an absurdity ; and if but
one, it is properly with the commanding officer, upon his responsibility ; and
the contractor, who ought not to exercise a discretion, ought in no event to
sufier.

330 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

district, united under the command of an intermediate superior,
the particular commandant of either of those posts shall not
cause any such repairs to be made, though occasioning no
greater expense than fifty dollars, without a previous report to
such superior, and his approbation, No extra expense for any
special object or purpose shall be incurred by such particular
commandant, without a previous report to the said superior;
who, when such expense may exceed fifty dollars, shall not
authorize it without first obtaining the sanction of his superior.
The commandant of a particular fort or district, having no in-
termediate superior, shall incur no expense for repairs, nor any
extra expense for any special object or purpose, which may re-
quire a disbursement exceeding fifty dollars, without the per-
mission of the commander of the army or district, or of the
Secretary of War,

As often as any matter which may require any special or
extra expense can wait without material injury to the service, for
a communication to and the direction of the commander of an
army or district, it is not to be undertaken till after such com-
munication and direction shall have been had.

These regulations admit of exceptions in cases of extraordi-
nary emergency and of peculiar urgency, when the service would
be likely to suffer materially from the delay, which might attend
the observance of them. Every such exception will be on the
special responsibility of the officer by whom it may be made, who
must immediately report to his superior the occasion, and the ex-
pense, proballe or actual. The commander of an army, or within
a great district, may, by instructions in writing, to be forthwith
communicated to the Secretary of War, make exceptions in cases
where the remoteness of a fort or post shall render the applica-
tion of these regulations manifestly inconvenient ; intrusting a
large discretion to the commandant of such fort or post.

The quartermaster-general, his deputies and assistants, are
primarily charged with the making of the disbursements in the
cases above-mentioned. AVhen there is no such officer, the agent
of the AYar Department in the vicinity shall do it. All orders
for such disbursement must be definite, and in writing, to be

JEt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 331

transmitted with the accounts of them to the accountant of the
War Department.

HAMILTON TO COLONEL MOORE.

New-York. Sept. 18th, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the 17th instant, and regret
extremely the event of which it informs me. Although it is not
my intention to contravene military prejudices on the subject, yet
I doubt not you will agree with me that it is proper to discourage
a spirit which would lead to frequent events of this nature.* I
must request from you a particular statement of the circumstances
of this unhappy affair.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, Sept. 19th, 1799.

Sir:

I have communicated to Colonel Bentley your resolution as
expressed in your letter of the 30th of August, in respect to the
late appointments for his regiment.

But the occasion claims from me some remarks, as due to my
own opinion of propriety and the good of the service.

I cannot doubt that the practice of your department, as to the
filling of vacancies in new corps, previous to your coming into it,
was just as you state ; but in the latitude in which it is stated, I
cannot easily be persuaded that it is such a practice as ought to
be continued, or that it is not of a nature to sow the seeds of
permanent discontent in the infancy of every corps,

* I have been the more naturally led to this reflection, as I am informed by
General Wilkinson that the practice of duelling in the Western army has been cai^
ried to an extreme in every view reprehensible and injurious.

332 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

I can, nevertheless, agree in the position of the Commander-
in-Chief, that when, in the case of a newly created corps, an
officer declines his appointment, during the act of formation, the
vacancy is not necessarily to be filled by the next in seniority.

But this is a rule rather to be narrowed than extended in its
application ; because it clashes with expectations that will inevi-
tably grow up in the minds of officers, and in which their pride
and self-love will always take a very active part. It is, in my
opinion, to carry it to an impolitic extreme, to say that it shall
operate until " the regiment, legion, or corps has been recruited,
or nearly so, and has marched to head-quarters." And to apply
it to a single case of promotion is to mistake its principle, as,
from the subsequent expressions of the Commander-in-Chief, may
be inferred to be his idea. The rule is naturally confined to the
case of an officer in the original creation, who declines his ap-
pointment ; in other words, who refuses to accept. The moment
a station has been filled by acceptance, though but for a day, the
right of promotion attaches to it, and, if becoming afterwards
vacant, it is filled by a new person, this is a violation of the prin-
ciples of service and of the just expectations of subordinate offi-
cers. It is not a correct answer to this to say, that a corps "is
open to new appointments," or, as I understand the phrase, that
the right of promotion does not commence till after the relative
rank of the officers who have been appointed has been settled.

The want of a settlement of relative rank among them only
leaves it doubtful what individual of their number shall succeed,
but it does not involve any doubt whether aggregately they do
not exclude a stranger. There is still a clear right of some one
of them to succeed, to be effectuated as soon as the relative rarik
is established; and new persons ought to come in junior to
them all.

The appointment, therefore, of a new person in the place of
one designated to an office in the regimental staff", to take pre-
cedence of others before appointed, is irregular, and not warranted
by the rule, if taken within just limits, or within the definition of
the Commander-in-Chief.

Even the practice of introducing new men to vacancies occa-

JEt. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 333

sioned by tlie non-acceptance of officers in the original ap-
pointment, ought not, in my judgment, to be continued till the
corps should have been recruited or nearly so, and marched to
head-quarters, as you state to have been the case.

This may be so long protracted as to postpone inconveniently
the routine of promotion, and produce dissatisfaction. A reason-
able period should be fixed within which acceptances may with
due diligence be ascertained — suppose three months from the
first appointment of officers. To keep the thing open for a year
or more, which is likely to be the case in the present instance, if
the completion of the regiment should be the criterion, could not
fail to beget discontent even in men of moderate and subordinate
tempers.

The recommendation of persons as officers by the command-
ants of regiments ought, I think, when the contrary is not ex-
pressed, to be understood to mean, that they shall come in as
junior second lieutenants. If I recollect rightly, in one or two
instances of an early date, they have expressed the contrary, and
relying upon their judgment of the probable effect on their regi-
ments, I have countenanced the recommendation. But I am
clearly of opinion that this ought not to be the case in future ;
and that, considering the length of time which h^s elapsed since
the organization of the regiment, it is indispensable that the rou-
tine of promotion shall henceforth prevail, with the exception
perhaps of the fifth regiment, in consideration of the receiving of
the appointments for it.

Military prejudices are not only inseparable from, but they
are essential to the military profession.

The government which desires to have a satisfied and useful
army must consult them. They cannot be moulded at its
pleasure ; it is vain to aim at it.

I must entreat, sir, that the observations which I have offered
in this letter may be attentively weighed. They are urged upon
mature reflection, and are believed to be material to your satis-
faction and that of the officers-principal in command, to the satis-
faction of all the officers, present and future, to whom they are
applicable, and to the harmonious course of our military affairs.

With great respect and esteem, I have the honor to be, &c.

334 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, Sept. 21, 1799.

Sm:

I feel it as a mark of consideration for my recommendation,
that notwithstanding the force of the difficulties which in your
view operate against further advances not founded upon the pre-
scribed forms, you are pleased to declare that you will once more
give your sanction to the measure. I must entreat you even to
go a step further, and to order that it be without fail done. For
symptoms bordering on mutiny, for the want of pay, have been
reported to me as having appeared in the twelfth and thirteenth
regiments — and discontents, less turbulent, have been communi-
cated from several other quarters ; an explosion any where would
injure and discredit the service, and wherever the blame might
really be, would be shared by all. No one can be more deeply
impressed than I am with the necessity of a strict-adherence to
general rules and to established forms. But there will occur cir-
cumstances in which these ought to be dispensed with, and it is
equally important to judge rightly when exceptions ought to be
admitted, as when the general rule ought to be maintained.

The creation of a new army, in which every officer from the
highest to the lowest is of new appointment, and in respect to
which, in and out of the administration, there is a deficiency of
some essential organs, presents a case which with the utmost
diligence and care will require and justify relaxations.

For instance, the law and the instructions of the Treasury
Department require that the pay of the troops shall be founded
upon warrants of the commanding general, regulated by the
reports of the paymaster-general, or, as I maintain the construc-
tion of the late law to be, of his deputy, with a separate com-
mand. How was that practicable when the paymaster-general
was at Cincinnati, and he had no deputy any where ? How can
it now be done with reasonable convenience and expedition, when
he resides at Philadelphia, and he has no deputy attached either
to my command or to that of General Pinckney ?

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 335

Again, muster and pay-rolls are to be in certain precise forms,
pf-escribed by the Treasury ; these forms were received by me
only four days since, and consequently could not hitherto be in
the possession of the commandants of regiments. It will not be
said that I ought to have called for them ; because certainly it
lies with the department to communicate its own regulations un-
called for. Are the soldiery to suffer a privation of pay for
several months, because these forms, never prescribed, have not
been fulfilled ?

It is true, that when I was at the head of the Treasury De-
partment, these forms passed under my eye ; but it is no less
true that I had forgotten the circumstance, and that considering
it as an attribute of the inspector-general to devise forms, where
none were before established by higher authority, I had caused
to be prepared forms of muster and pay-rolls to answer the
present exigency. Surely, as the matter is situated, these forms
ought provisionally at least to serve as substitutes for the estab-
lished ones.

Various other particulars might be added to prove that dis-
pensations with the ordinary forms ought to take place in relation
to the new regiments ; but the foregoing are sufficient for the
illustration.

Every effort, no doubt, ought to be made, and on my part
will be made as fast as possible, to put this and every other mat-
ter in its proper and regular train ; but time is requisite, and the
organs which depend on administrative authority must first be
instituted.

The Treasury as well as the War Department has too often
experienced the necessity of accommodating relaxations in special
cases, not readily to admit upon reflection that they are right in
the existing position of our new army.

As to the persons, who are to muster the twelve regiments,
they are, by my direction, the commandant of the regiment and
the surgeon, or person officiating in that capacity. It seems to
me that till inspectors are appointed, nothing could be done which
would promise greater security to the public. I did not like to
multiply agents ; I consider that this is substantially conformable

336 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

to the instruction from the Treasury, and will be so understood ;
if not, you will please to inform me.

With great respect, I have the honor to be, sir,
Your obedient servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO SWAN".

New-York, September 22d, 1799.

Sir:

Having forgotten the circumstances known to me when at
the head of the Treasury Department, that forms of muster and
pay-rolls had been prescribed by the Comptroller of the Trea-
sury, I instructed the Assistant Adjutant-General to devise
forms of those documents, and to transmit them to the several
commanders. You will find herewith the forms thus prescribed,
with a letter from the Adjutant-General, explaining the differ-
ences with the reasons of the alterations. Brevity was the princi-
pal motive of them. In all military documents it is peculiarly
desirable to consult conciseness as far as it may comport with
perspicuity and accuracy ; military men in the midst of active
operations have very little leisure for writing.

Having observed thus much, I shall only further say on this
point, that I have no predilection for the new forms ; and am
perfectly content that the old shall continue with or without
modification to meet such of the alterations as may be deemed
improvements.

But the essential point is to have the of&cers, without delay,
furnished with those forms which it is expected shall be ob-
served, accompanied with the requisite instructions for carrying
them into execution.

To this end I have issued the order of which the inclosed
is a copy, and I expect that you will without delay send the
several paymasters and persons acting as such, the forms and
instructions.

^T. 42.J MILITARY PAPERS. 337

Till you have a deputy, it appears to me regular that your
communications ought to be with this description of persons.

When you have or shall have a deputy, it is and will be pro-
per for you to communicate with him, and he with the officers
in question. I may add, that wherever a particular officer re-
ceives money from your department for which he is accountable,
you or your deputy may, with propriety, hold a direct commu-
nication with him, wdiatever be his station.

But it is proper that correspondence and communication be-
tween your office and the military should be restricted to the
purposes of this description, except when for any special reason
you find occasion to communicate with the commanding-general
or other commander of an army, or within a great military
district.

The pointing out at an early period this course of proceed-
ing, is dictated by a love of regularity, to which nothing is more
conducive than great strictness in the modes of communication
between officers. With great consideration, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, Sept. 23d, 1799.

Deae Sir :

I had the pleasure of receiving in due time your letter of the
15th instant. The suggestions it contains will be maturely
weighed. I postpone any thing definitive until the return of
General Wilkinson, which is momentarily expected. The other
documents besides No. 8, which accompanied his letter, were
not material to the consideration of its contents, or they would
have been forwarded. Even No. 1 does nothing more than ex-
hibit in the form of a table, the propositions which are found in
the letter. I was afraid of burthening you with papers which
did not necessarily require your attention, being matters of mere
detail.

E 22

338 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42,

Inclosed is a letter of this date to Colonel Parker about win-
ter quarters, for the eighth, ninth, and tenth regiments. It is
late to begin, but you will perceive in it the cause of the delay.

It is extremely desirable that you would be pleased to take
the direction of this matter, and to have the business done in
such manner as you shall deem eligible. Not having a right
to presume that you would choose to take the charge of it, I
have adopted the expedient of addressing myself to Colonel Par-
ker. But perhaps you may think of some preferable agent, in
which case you will be so good as to retain the letter, and give
complete directions to such other agent. Compensation and the
defraying of his expenses need not be obstacles.

At any rate, I hope you will not find it inconvenient to in-
struct Colonel Parker to conclude a bargain for such place as
upon his reports to you shall be in your opinion eligible. It is
very necessary that these young troops should be early covered.
Collateral ideas with regard to Harper's Ferry as a place for
arsenals and magazines, may perhaps be combined. These will
more readily occur to you than to me.

With true respect and attachment, &c.

P. S. Scotch Plains, near Bound Brook, will be fixed upon
for the 11th, 12th, and 13th regiments. A very eligible spot
of about ninety acres is offered there at fifty dollars per acre
for the fee simple. It affords the advantage of a good summer
encampment also, with a prospect of a supply for years of fuel
and straw at cheap rates ; and the convenience of a pleasant and
plentiful surrounding country.

Search has been for some time past making for a suitable
position for the three most northern regiments, in the vicinity of
Uxbridge or Massachusetts.

iET. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 339

WASHINGTOISr TO HAMILTON,

Mount Vernon, 29th Sept., 1799.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 23cl instant was received tlie 27tli, and this
day will proceed in tlie mail to Winchester, the nearest post
town to Col. Parker's residence ; if he should be at his own house,
the letter is inclosed for him. There being no person in raj
view more eligible than Col. Parker to carry your instructions
into effect, unless Col. Carrington had been in office as Quarter-
master-General, I had no hesitation in forwarding your letter to
him, with such sentiments as occurred to me on the subject,
which differed in no essential point from those you had given.

I confined him more pointedly than you had done to the
site near Harper's Ferry for his winter cantonment, because very
cogent reasons, in my opinion, required it ; for, besides possess-
ing all the advantages enumerated in your letter to him (so far
as my recollection of the spot and information goes), being in a
fertile and most abounding country, and one of the strongest po-
sitions by nature perhaps in America, it appeared to me that the
encampment and arsenal which is established at that place might
mutually assist and benefit each other. If the States are wise
enough to keep united, I have no doubt of this arsenal being their
principal place of arms and best foundry, as it is in the midst of
furnaces and forges of the best iron, can receive at and transport
from it by inland navigation all its wants and manufactures in
every direction, and is indubitably, supposing the advantage of
water transportation out of the question, altogether, the great
highway to the country on the river Ohio,

For the reasons I have assigned, I did not hesitate a moment
in giving the vicinity of Harper's Ferry (at the confluence of
the rivers Potomac and Shenandoah) a decided preference ; but,
if I am not mistaken, another strong inducement is afforded,
namely, that there is a sufficiency of land purchased for the pur-
pose of the arsenal to accommodate both objects. Of this I have
informed Col, Parker, but, as Air, Lear is from home (who was

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

the agent for the War Department in the purchase), I could not
inform him with certainty. If the fact, however, should be as I
suspect, it will prove a most fortunate circumstance, as well in
the article of expense as in the time that will be gained in com-
pleting the huts. If it should be otherwise, I have advised Col.
Parker to hold out to view and examine many places, while he,
by some agent, is endeavoring to possess himself by purchase of
the site near Harper's Ferry, without which he might be imposed
on in the price of the land.

With very great esteem and regard, &c.

HAMILTON TO COL. MOORE.

New-York, Sept. 30, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the 28th instant, and shall
make but one inquiry more with respect to the unfortunate affair

between Lieut. ■ and Capt. . You will be so good

as to inform me of the particular subject on which the political
dispute turned, and of the principles that were maintained by the
respective parties. The information I am anxious to receive.

I am pleased with the pains you have taken to discourage a
repetition of such instances. If examples were wanting to illus-
trate the pernicious eifects of drinking to intoxication, the present
unfortunate affair would be a very instructive one. How neces-
sary is it, as well by the means which affect the pride and deli-
cacy of oflEicers as by those which are furnished by the principles
of discipline, to discountenance so ungeutlemanly a propensity.
You have the leave of absence which you request.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS.
HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, October 3, 1799.

Sir:

The following arrangement as to liuts, appears to me expe-
dient. Eacli hut to be fourteen by sixteen feet for all but the
field officers. One hut for twelve privates or eight non-com-
missioned officers. One hut for each captain, and each of the
regimental staff. One hut for every two subalterns. A hut
for a lieutenant-colonel, of fourteen by twenty-four feet ; and
for each major, of fourteen feet by twenty-two feet. One hut as
a kitchen to every mess of officers, and to each field officer.

It is contemplated that the huts be roofed with boards, unless
where slabs can be had very cheap. The Albany board being
always fourteen feet in length, and this being from convenience
a pretty common length of other boards, it has had some influence
in determining the size of the huts. Boards will also be wanted
for bunks. Such of the boards as can be preserved entire, may
be afterwards sold for nearly their cost. The slabs would be
worth little more than mere fuel.

I send you an estimate of carpenters' tools, requisite, in the
opinion of General Stevens, (who is a professional judge,) for
hutting a regiment.

It is important that your sense of the matter should be re-
ceived without delay, as time begins to press.

In the execution of the plan, slight deviations may be expe-
dient (with reference to the kind of material, &c.) to fulfil the
general views of the plan.

As soon as your sense shall be signified, I shall proceed
to order provision to be made, except of such articles as you.
shall inform me are already procured, or to be procured else-
where.

I presume carpenters sufficient will be found in each regi-
ment to conduct the roofing, &c., but the service being irrelative
to their established duty, there must be some extra compensa-
tion. It may, however, in some cases be necessary to engage a

342 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

few additional hands of this description. In every thing, how-
ever, economy, as much as possible, will be consulted.
With great consideration and respect,

I have the honor to be your obed't serv't.

HAMILTON TO

New- York, October 4th, 1799.

Sir:

Inclosed is a duplicate of my letter of the , by

which you are instructed to purchase ground for the pur-
pose of winter quarters. I am now to request that you will im-
mediately require of the contractors to procure, on public account,
the number of boards or slabs, or both, which you shall deem
sufficient for two complete regiments, with their officers, and for
the floors of the huts of the officers, and for bunks for the non-
commissioned officers and privates. It is contemplated that the
latter will dispense with flooring, as was done during the late
war, or will make the floors out of the fragments of wood, cut
from the premises ; and that the commissioned officers, as usual,
will be provided with their own camp beds and camp stools.
Nails must also be procured at the rate of pounds to a full

regiment.

You are already informed, that three regiments are to quarter
together ; but it is supposed that these, during the present winter,
may not average more than 400 each. If it is found that they
will exceed, the provision will be extended. Sufficient ground
must be allotted in each case for a complete regiment.

The following dimensions for huts are conceived to be the
most eligible, viz. :

Those for the non-commissioned officers and privates .

Those for the company officers, • .

Those for lieutenant-colonels commandant, .

Those for majors, .

j:t. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 343

One hut is to be allowed to every twelve corporals or privates.

One to every eight sergeants, with the two chief musicians.

One to each captain, and each of the regimental staff.

One to every two subalterns.

One to each field officer, and

One as a kitchen to each mess of officers, and to each field
ofEicer.

The number of Albany boards of fourteen feet in length, and
inches in breadth, which are estimated to be necessary for
the huts of a regiment, in respect to the above mentioned parti-
culars, is . While this is mentioned as a guide, the number

must of course vary with the dimensions of the boards, which
are made in your quarter, and with the more or less of use which
shall be made of slabs.

In this quarter, boards have been preferred, because they can
be afterwards sold for nearly their first cost ; while slabs (the
price of which would be about two-thirds of that of boards) could
not be, sold again but as fuel.

It is possible that in the vicinity of the place for your
quarters, slabs may be obtainable at so cheap a rate as to render
them preferable in the view of economy to boards.

This is submitted to your judgment; but it would be agree-
able that you should first confer on the subject with the agent of
the War Department.

The dimensions of the huts have been somewhat influenced
by the length of Albany boards, and by the desire to preserve
them, in order that they may be in a condition to be sold again,
with little or no loss. If the size of your board should be dif-
ferent, you are at liberty to vary the dimensions of the huts of
the non-commissioned officers and privates with the same view.
This will lead to a different distribution of persons to each hut.

The number twelve^ however, appears to me to be an eligible
standard for a mess. Experience in some of the European
armies has proved that large messes, by promoting savings, tend
to the comfort of the troops. And in the formation which I con-
template for the full complement of a regiment, twelve will form
the smallest subdivision. Hence I should not wish the dimen-

344 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

sions to be altered, unless for some material inducement of
economy.

The huts of the non-commissioned officers and privates should
be in one line of the company ; officers in another, fifty feet dis-
tant ; and of the field officers in a third, fifty feet distant from
the last. The distance may, however, depend on the form of
the ground.

Particular care must be taken that there be no waste of tim-
ber or wood. The present may not be the only winter in which
the troops may be quartered at the place intended. E. Stevens,
Esq. has been instructed to procure and forward a supply of
carpenters' tools. It is presumed that men will be found in the
regiments who can execute such parts as may require a degree
of carpenters' knowledge.

The senior of the lieutenant-colonels commandant, (who I
presume is yourself,) by the rules lately promulgated, will as-
sume the command. If I am mistaken in supposing you to
be the senior, you will inform me of it. If it be another, you
will write to him accordingly, giving him a copy of this letter for
his government, but you will nevertheless go on with the pre-
paratory measures.

The men already recruited are to be drawn as fast as possi-
ble to the place of their winter quarters, and are to be put under
cover without delay. Such as may be successively recruited are
also to be drawn thither; and for this purpose an extra provision
of materials for huts is to be made by the men who may be first
on the ground. But the recruiting service is still to proceed,
until each regiment shall be carried to its complement. Accord-
ingly, after assigning a proportionate number of officers to the
command of the men already enlisted, the others are to continue
on the recruiting service in their respective sub-districts.

You will immediately inform Colonels Hunewell and Graves,
of the precise plan of winter quarters.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 345

HAMILTON TO COLONEL MOORE.

New-York, October 6th, 1799.

Sir:

It is afflicting to learn that sncli a dispute as you state in your
letter of the 3d instant should have occurred between two officers
of the American army. Particular attachment to any foreign
nation is an exotic sentiment which, where it exists, must dero-
gate from the exclusive affection due to our own country. Par-
tiality to France at this late day is a bad symptom. The pro-
fession of it by Captain , in my opinion, does him no

honor. How far it ought to impair confidence, must depend in
a degree on personal character. But as often as a similar bias is
manifested, the conduct of the person ought to engage the vigi-
lant attention of the commanding officer. I hesitate as to what
my duty requires on the occasion, and must think further of the
matter. You will be pleased to ascertain, and inform me whether
Lieutenant be an American citizen or not. You will re-
ceive another letter of this date on the subject of winter quarters.

With confidence and esteem.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

Trenton, October 12th, 1799.

Sir:

It is now time to contemplate the distribution of the troops
of the United States into divisions and brigades. The arrange-
ment which appears to me expedient for the present is this:
" That the four old regiments shall form one division and two
brigades ; the twelve new ones, two divisions and four brigades.

The ver}^ great sphere of action to which the former are des-
tined, including important and complicated objects, appears to
me to render it expedient that not more than two regiments shall

346 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

constitute a brigade. But the latter, till there should be actual
service, when the system supposes that the number of each regi-
ment would be increased, may, for the mere purposes of disci-
pline, be conveniently formed three to a brigade. The disposi-
tion for winter quarters accords with this idea.

Correspondent officers should be appointed, who are princi-
pally generals, quartermasters, and inspectors.

The latter are of the competency of the inspector-general, who
will proceed without delay to make the appointments.

If the non-appointment of the quartermaster-general, pro-
vided for by the Act of the 3d of March last for the better
organizing of the army, or the absence of the former quartermas-
ter-general, be an impediment to the regular course of constituting
a deputy quartermaster-general to each military district, and divi-
sion and brigade quartermasters, a substitute must be adopted.

Usage, founded on necessity in similar cases, would authorize
each commanding general to designate persons provisorily to per-
form the duties. But he cannot annex the extra compensation,
and without this, or the expectation of it, the business would
labor.

I request your interposition. I deem essential the immediate
appointment within my command of a deputy quartermaster-
general, and one division and two brigade quartermasters ; and I
will observe incidentally, that the same thing must be requisite
wdthin the command of General Pinckney.

As to generals, the President must decide. With the West-
ern army there is no major-general and one brigadier. Two brig-
adiers were appointed for the additional army, but no more than
one is understood to have accepted. I am anxious that the de-
ficiency should be supplied. The discipline of the troops ought
to be accelerated. It must suffer more or less as often as one
organ is transferred from its proper situation to another. I en-
treat a prompt decision on the subject of quartermaster.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 347

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

Trenton, October 12th, 1799.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit the plan which is conceived to
be proper for the disposition of the four regiments of the perma-
nent estabhshment. It is the result of communications with
General Wilkinson and the Commander-in-Chief, and accords
with the opinion of the latter.

The principal objects of this plan are : — 1. The distribution
of the troops by corps in contiguous relative positions, keeping
the men embodied under their own officers, and making the com-
mandants of regiments and battalions to superintend their re-
spective corps ; an arrangement no less favorable to the conve-
nience and regularity of supply than to the order and discipline
of the troops. 2. The reduction of the number of posts ; some
of which, however useful when originally occupied, can, under
existing circumstances, answer no valuable purpose, but tend to
subdivide too much our inconsiderable force, and to increase the
difficulty and expense of supply. 3. The obtaining of a reserve
force, which, being stationed in a central position, will bear upon
various points either for succor or attack, and by its concen-
tration will be capable of discipline and ready for active and
efficient efforts. 4, The promotion of economy, by lessening the
garrisons of some of the most remote stations, and bringing a prin-
cipal part of the force to a situation where it can be supplied
with comparative cheapness.

In judging of the effect of the plan in the last view, it is neces-
sary to advert, that the present low state of the corps, in point of
numbers, is not the criterion. In the natural order of service,
the recruits would reinforce them several companies, and in this
case the actual distribution of the troops would give to posts in
the most expensive situations greater numbers than are allotted
to them by the present plan.

The reduction of the garrison of Michilimackinac, in particu-
lar, has been very much influenced by the consideration of

348 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

economy. This motive was tlie more readily yielded to, as it is
not perceived that a greater number there, if bearing any propor-
tion to the whole force which we have to employ in the western
quarter, would answer any better purpose than the number pro-
posed to be continued. This number will serve to occupy the
point as one of the portals of the country, and to cover the few
white inhabitants there settled. In a suitable fortification, espe-
cially as the site is an island, it may effectually resist Indian
attack ; and any greater number which could be spared, could
neither act offensively against them, nor maintain themselves
against serious attack from our English neighbors. In the last
supposition the increase of number, from the impracticability of
reinforcement and succor, would only serve to increase loss.

It is not understood that the station procures to us at the
present juncture any commercial advantage, but in this respect is
principally convenient to the British traders in peltry, who, in
their intercourse with the neighboring Indians, have a rendezvous
at tliis place.

The primary inducement to us to keep a post there is, as be-
fore intimated, to retain the occupation of what may be consid-
ered as one of the portals of our northwestern territory, and to
avoid the appearance to the Indians of an abandonment of that
part of the country. It contributes also, in some degree, to an
influence over the tribes connected with Lake Michigan ; and
in time to come it may be an encouragement to the enterprises
of American traders. But all these ends will, it is conceived, be
accomplished by a small force.

The force now upon the lower parts of the Mississippi will
also be reduced.

It is conceived that the number contemplated by the plan
will be sufficient to garrison and maintain the forts which ought
at this time to exist in that region, to impress with due respect
the adjacent Indians, to give reasonable protection to the inhabit-
ants, and to keep such of them as may have foreign attachment
in check. A greater number would be inexpedient, because any
number which the state of our military establishment would per-
mit to be stationed there would not be adequate to the repelling

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 349

of a serious attack from our neighbors, and, being out of the
reach of succor, would, for that reason, be in imminent danger of
total defeat and loss ; while it would be still more inadequate to
an offensive operation, and, by its proximity, would be likely to
create alarm and occasion reinforcement.

In the event of an invasion from below, our reserved force
placed on the 0/ab, reinforced by the militia, to which it would
be a rallying point, can descend to meet it with effect, or can
take such other measures as circumstances may dictate. If a
rupture with Spain should induce us to become the invaders, the
force assigned to the undertaking can rapidly descend the Mis-
sissippi, and, being at a great distance, will have a better chance
of making its approach and of arriving unexpectedly, than if sta-
tioned at a place which by its nearness would excite jealousy
and vigilance.

But I agree in opinion with General Wilkinson, that a
strongly-fortified post ought to guard our extremity on the Mis-
sissippi. It will not only serve as an impediment to invasion by
the Spaniards, but will have an impressive influence on the pow-
erful tribes of Indians in our southwestern territory. Loftus's
Height (where you are informed a fortification is begun), accord-
ing to the description and plans communicated by General Wil-
kinson, is peculiarly designated as the proper site of such a post.
It is near our southern line, by much the highest point in an
extensive district of country, and commands the narrowest part
of the river. The dimensions of the summit are understood to
correspond with a fort which may be defended with about two
hundred men, and which would protect the batteries in advance
towards the river, and in other directions. I concur in the expe-
diency of occupying this height with a regular fortification
of stone or brick, garnished into the proper exterior batteries.
Bricks, I am assured, are easily made in the vicinity. Inclosed
is an estimate of the probable expense. Though by no means an
advocate for multiplying, in the present circumstances of the
country, the number of our fortifications, already too great, I en-
tertain no doubt of the expediency of the one in question, and
the object is well worth the probable expense.

350 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

It will be seen that a battalion is assigned to the care of this
fort, and of another now possessed on the Mobile.

The propriety of continuing the latter post may, however,
depend on circumstances. It is useful for the protection of an
existing settlement, and will add to the influence of our estab-
lishment upon the minds of the Indians ; but the supply of it is
difficult and expensive, and it is now effected through the Span-
ish territory. In case of a diminution of amity with Spain, that
circumstance would compel to a removal, unless another channel
can be conveniently opened. Indeed, if this cannot be shortly
done, it will hardly be proper to retain the post. The duration
of the arrangement, in this particular, may, therefore, be con-
sidered as contingent.

The position which has been chosen for the reserve corps has
various aspects. It looks to the succor of the more northern as
well as the more southern posts, and will be likely to control
efficaciously the northwestern Indians; it has an eye to a co-
operation with the troops in the State of Tennessee, whenever a
good communication shall be established, which is conceived to
be an object of pressing moment; and it is convenient for a
descent by the river Mississippi, for offensive operations against
our neighbors on the south, if future circumstances should recom-
mend them. But, as well with a view to defence as offence, it is
deemed requisite to prepare and keep ready below the rapids of
the Ohio a number of boats equal to the transportation of three
thousand men, with baggage, stores, provisions, artillery, and
other apparatus. The number and the estimate of their cost will
be found herewith.

A firm occupation of the straits which connect Lake Erie
with the Huron and Ontario, appears to me a material point. It
is doubtful whether the posts now on those straits are the best
adapted to that end either as to local situation or construction.
But unfortunately the want of a skilful engineer, (a very painful
circumstance in our military affairs,) is an obstacle to the due
examination of this point. It is, nevertheless, one which must
be attended to, as early as shall be practicable. It would seem
to me desirable ere long to have on each strait, a work suited to

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 351

about a tliousand men, wifh an interior work in tlie nature of a
citadel, adapted to about two hundred. These might be expected
to secure the place against a coup de main with a small force, and
the gi'owth of settlement in the vicinity will soon furnish through
the militia the means of augmenting the garrison upon a sudden
emergency. The good understanding which at this time subsists
between the United States and Great Britain, justifies an ar-
rangement less efficient than that just intimated. But the per-
manency of friendship between nations is too little to be relied
upon not to render it prudent to look forward to more substan-
tial precautions than are immediately meditated. You will like-
wise have observed that particular attention is paid to Massac.
In my opinion very cogent and comprehensive reasons render it
the policy of the United States to secure and command the con-
fluence of the Tennessee and Cumberland rivers with the Ohio,
and of the Ohio with the Mississippi. To this end respectable
fortifications, to be gradually executed, are necessary.

The leading motives to the plan, which I have the honor to
transmit, have been sketched ; considerations not mentioned will
readily present themselves to your reflections as having operated
on parts of the plan. Among these, the maintenance of the
troops on moderate terms, has not been overlooked in the choice
of the principal station.

Nothing particular has been said as to the regiment allotted to
General Pinckney's command, because the disposition of it be-
longs to him.

But the plan which I offer requires your interposition to give
it effect within the limits of that officer's district. There are now
there a regiment and part of another. An instruction from
you is necessary to incorporate the men so as to form one full
regiment — marching the overplus to Harper's Ferry, to be sent in
the spring to the Ohio.

The fourth regiment will naturally be that to be assigned
to Tennessee and Georgia. The men of the third, now in
Georgia, can continue there, but transferred to the fourth. These,
with those at present under Colonel Butler, in Tennessee, will
make a full regiment. And the recruits, under Major Bradley,

352 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

may at once be sent to Harper's Ferry. In the course of the
winter the officers of the third, in Georgia, can repair to Harper's
Ferry, and a sufficient number of those of the fourth can replace
them in Georgia.

An arrangement for the officers of the four old regiments is
now submitted to your consideration ; when approved, no time
will be lost in bringing officers and men together at the several
stations. At present they are extremely mingled and confused ;
officers of one regiment are with the men of another, and so
great is the disorder that I am assured that in one instance two
companies are mustered to the same captain — I allude to the case
of Captain .

It is alike important and urgent to be enabled to carry this
arrangement into execution, or with such alterations as you may
think fit to prescribe. The advanced state of the season renders
it necessary that General Wilkinson should depart without delay.
This he cannot do until he receives my instructions, and these
cannot be given to him until I shall receive your answer to this
communication ; my antecedent authority not being commensurate
with all the objects contemplated, and the Commander-in-Chief
having confined himself to advice without giving directions.

With perfect respect and esteem, I have the honor to be, sir,
Your obedient servant, &c.

Plan for the disposition of the four regiments of the permanent estab-
lishment, {as the result of communications with General Wilkin-
son and the Commander-in- Chief)

One regiment to be stationed partly in the State of Tennessee, and partly in
proper positions for the protection of the frontier of Georgia, not extending far-
ther westward than the Apalachicola river. This regiment to be attached to the
command of General Pinckney. The part in Tennessee to be by him instructed
in any great and sudden emergency to co-operate with General Wilkinson.

The other three regiments to be under the immediate command of General
Wilkinson, and to be stationed as follows, viz.

1. A battalion of infantry, a company of artillerists, at Niagara, Detroit, and
Michilimackinac ; thus distributed :

To Niagara. — Two companies of infantry, and a half company of artillerists.

iET.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 353

Detroit. — Three companies of infantry, and one company of artillerists ; to
furnish for * * * *

Michilimackinac. — A subaltern, two sergeants, twenty-four rank and file in-
fantry, and a sergeant and twelve artillerists.

2. A battalion of infantry, and a company of artillerists, at Fort Wayne, Fort
Fayette (Pittsburgh), Massac, and Fort Pickering; thus distributed, viz. —

To Fort Wayne. — A company of infantry and a quarter of a company of ar-
tillerists.

To Fort Fayette. — A company of infantry and a quarter of a company of ar-
tillerists, to detach to

Presque Isle. — One subaltern, one sergeant, one corporal, and fifteen privates.

To Massac. — Two companies of infantry, and half a company of artillerists ;
to detach to Fort Pickering a sergeant and six artillerists.

Fort Pickering. — A company of infantrj\ and a sergeant and six artillerists.

3. A battaUon of infantry, and a company of artillerists, at Fort Adams and
Fort Stoddart ; thus distributed, viz. —

To Fort Adams. — Four companies of infantry, and a company of artillerists ;
the latter to furnish a detachment for Fort Stoddart.

To Fort Stoddart. — A company of infantry, and a sergeant and twelve artil-
lerists.

The reserve force, consisting of a regiment and a battalion of infantiy, two
troops of horse and half a company of artillerists, to be stationed at some point,
from Cincinnati to the Rapids of the Ohio, inclusively.

[It is further contemplated that two regiments of infantry, a battahon of rifle-
men, and a regiment of cavalry of the eventual army, be organized in Tennessee,
Kentucky, the North and Southwestern Territory.]

HAMILTON TO •WASHDTGTON.

New-York, Oct. 21st, 1799.

Sir:

I have tlie honor to acknowledge the receipt, two days since,
of your letter of the 15th instant ; at which time, also, I received
one from Colonel Parker, informing me of the selection of ground
which he had made.

You will see, by the inclosed letter to him, the impression
which his communication has made on my mind.
E 23

354 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.42.

I trust it must be erroneous, since my supposition does not
agree with the spirit of his instructions, either from you or my-
self, nor with the manner in which you seem, by some expres-
sions in your letter, to understand that he has executed them.
But as it is possible the mode of execution may not have been
sufficiently explained to you, I cannot entirely dismiss my ap-
prehensions.

K the plan of barracks has, in fact, been substituted, I must
once more entreat your interposition. You will judge whether
there is yet time to rectify the mistake, and procure a more suit-
able position ; or whether, making an arrangement at the place
which has been fixed upon for the eighth regiment only, it will
not be best to vary the destination of the others — sending the
ninth to the barracks at Fredericktown, in Maryland, where, I am
very lately informed, there are buildings sufficient for a regi-
ment, belonging to the State, which I presume may be borrowed ;
and the tenth at Carlisle, in Pennsylvania, where I am assured
there exist buildings, the property of the United States, which
will accommodate a regiment. Both these regiments have been
directed to march for their destination, by way of Frederick-
town, and the tenth to Yorktown, there to receive further
orders.

Permit me to ask that you will be pleased to give these fur-
ther orders, according to your determination, to which every
thing is respectfully submitted.

Knowing that it is not agreeable to your general plan, to
take charge, at present, of military operations, I am bound to
apologize for the trouble I give you. But my unexpected and
late agency in the affair, and the advanced state of the season,
leave me no alternative.

With perfect respect, &c.

Mt.42.] ' MILITARY PAPERS. 355

HAMILTON TO M'HENKY.

New-York, October 22cl, 1799.

Sir:

It gives me pleasure to learn from your letter of the 16tli in-
stant, which was received yesterday, that the leading principles
and objects of the plan communicated in mine of the 13th, are
approved.

In every disposition of the troops in the western county, the
primary views of the government, as indicated by you, will be
carefully attended to.

The surmise as to leaving an additional battalion for Ten-
nessee and the frontiers of Georgia, has induced a reconsidera-
tion of that part of the plan. But my opinion continues unal-
tered. Our entire force, which, from the terms of engagement,
can be applied to the purposes of our northern, western and
southern frontiers, is manifestly inadequate. All that can be
done is, to make such a disposition of it as will bear a proportion
to the different objects.

Comparing those which are to be provided for on our north-
western and southwestern frontiers, including the intermediate
country, with those which demand attention in the other quar-
ters, and taking into the view the greater facility of reinforce-
ment in the one case than in the other, a regiment for Tennessee
and the frontiers of Georgia is an ample proportion. If the regi-
ment can be kept full, which can easily be done, th^re will, I be-
lieve, be a greater real force, than there has been in time past.
This point, of course, ought to be looked to. The addition of a
battalion would very essentially interfere with the idea of a re-
served force on the Ohio, large enough to be in any degree effi-
cient. And this is deemed on all hands a cardinal object in the
disposition to be made.

I shall be happy to learn that these reasons are deemed satis-
factory, and that immediate measures will be taken in conform-
ity. For these measures I refer to the suggestions in my former
letter.

356 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

HAMILTON TO M'HEJSTEY.

New- York, October 25, 1799.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit the proceedings of a court-mar-
tial lately holden at Fort Fayette, of which Major Stevenson was
president, to be submitted to the President of the United States
for his decision.

No pecuhar circumstances appear in it. I can only observe that
it probably proceeded from some knowledge of personal charac-
ter in the court, and from the conviction of the necessity of
examples.

There are other cases now pending before the President,
arising in the western country.

One execution, at present, in that scene may suffice; and
pardons granted in the others.

The President may either select, guided by the circumstan-
ces which appear; or leave the selection to the officer com^
manding the western army.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRT.

New-York, October 25, 1799.

Sir:

Lieutenant Campbell Smith has made a representation to me,
on the subject of some claims which he has pending in the ac-
countant's office, and has requested the interposition of my
opinion.

Thinking it due to him as an officer now under my command,
I trouble you with this letter.

He states that he has claims of two kinds ; one for services
rendered for more than two years, as judge advocate, previous
to the law authorizing that appointment, another for the legal

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 357

emoluments of the office, in virtue of an appointment of tlie com-
manding general, on tlie cases of that law ; that having been
absent in consequence of ill health, induced by a severe wound
received in the service, obstacles have occurred to the allowing
of the compensation during the term of such absence ; that the
Attorney-General has given an opinion that the appointment
was a regular one under the law, and that he understands this
opinion to have been heretofore acted upon by your department.

Upon these data I submit my ideas.

I consider it to be a principle sanctioned by usage, that when
an officer is called to exercise, in a permanent way^ an office of
skill in the army (such as that of judge-advocate), for which pro-
vision is not made by law, he is to receive a quantum meruit^ by
special discretion, for the time he officiates, which, in our present
system, would be paid out of the fund for the contingencies of
the War Department.

This applies to the first claim.

As to to the second, this is my opinion : That, considering
the appointment as regularly made under the law, the emolu-
ments continue, of course, until the office has been abdicated or
suspended — the non-exercise of it for any period to the contrary,
notwithstanding. In the situation in which Lieutenant Smith
was placed by his wound, he would seem entitled even to a
liberal application of this rule of right.

CHAELES COTESWOETH PINCKNEY TO HAMILT015".

Elizabethtown, Oct. 25, 1799.

Deae Sie:

I arrived at this place this afternoon from Ehode Island, via
Paulus Hook. Mrs. Pinckney has sustained the fatigue of the
voyage and the journey better than I expected. She is, however,
much tired, and I shall not be able to leave her to-morrow ; but
I trust she will be so much recovered as to enable me to pay my

358 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

respects to you on Sunday. If that sliould not be tlie case, I will
wait upon you tlie first day I can with propriety do so. The
envoys are then to sail. I presume this must be a very deep
measure ; — much too profound for my penetration.
I always am yours very sincerely.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Mount Vernon, 27th Oct., 1799.

Dear Sir:

To my official letters I refer you for my communication with
Colonel Parker. I have no conception, however, that such diffi-
culties as are enumerated in his and Mr, Mackie's letters, can
exist in the erection of simple huts, (such as served us last war,)
and so I am about to inform the former.

I am averse to the separation of the eighth, ninth, and tenth
regiments under any circumstances which exist at present ; — and
still more so to the distribution of them into three States. If
they cannot all be accommodated at Harper's Ferry, the barracks
at Fredericktown (if sufficient to contain two regiments) is to
be preferred, vastly, to Carlisle ; forasmuch as it is only twenty
miles from the arsenal, which is in great forwardness in the
former place, and because fuel alone at either Fredericktown or
Carlisle for the winter, would double all the expense of the
establishment at Harper's Ferry. I have gone thus far into this
business, and have given these opinions, because you desired it ;
and because from the peculiar situation of things, it seemed, in a
manner, almost indispensable. But I wish exceedingly, that the
state of Mrs. Pinckney's health, and other circumstances, would
permit General Pinckney to come forward, and on his own view
to decide on matters. To engage partially in military arrange-
ments, is not only contrary to my original design, but unpleasant
in its nature and operation ; inasmuch as it incurs responsibility
without proper means for decision.

^T.42.T MILITARY PAPERS. 359

Witli respect to Major Campbell, or any of tliose who are ap-
plying for appointments in tlie Inspectorate, I have no predilec-
tion whatsoever towards them ; handing in their names, with the
testimonials of their merit and fitness as I receive them, for
information only is all I have in view.

The purport of your (private) letter of the 21st, with respect
to a late decision, has surprised me exceedingly. I was sur-
prised at the measure^ how much more so at the manner of it ?
This business seems to have commenced in an evil hour, and
under unfavorable auspices ; and I wish mischief may not tread
in all its steps, and be the final result of the measure. A wide
door was open from which a retreat might have been made from
the first/awx jpa5, the shutting of which, to those who are not be-
hind the curtain, and are as little acquainted with the secrets of
the cabinet as I am, is, from the present aspect of European af-
fairs, incomprehensible. But I have the same reliance on Pro-
vidence which you express, and trust that matters will end ivell,
however unfavorable they may appear at present.
With very great esteem and regard,
I am, my dear Sir,

Your most obedient and affectionate,

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO ADAMS.

New-York, Oct. 29th, 1799.

Sir:

I shall with pleasure obey the command contained in your
letter of the 17th instant, and shall accordingly inform the Gov-
ernor that I am ready to proceed in the execution of the measure.

360 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New-York, October 29tli, 1799.

Sir:

General Wilkinson has fiirnislied me with tlie inclosed esti-
mates of the cost of the water-batterj, barracks and magazine,
which have been undertaken at Loftus's Height ; and he gives it
as his opinion bj analogy, but without detail, that the cost of the
fort proposed to be erected at the same place, will about equal
the sum of these estimates, say 16,000 dollars.

I send you an estimate which I have myself made, aided by
the information of prices which the estimates above referred to
exhibit, which makes the cost considerably less.

Yet, relying on General Wilkinson's better knowledge of
local circumstances, I have authorized him to erect the work
within a limit of expense conformable to his own calculation, un-
less, previous to his departure for the Mississippi, he should re-
ceive a negative from you, or by your direction. The provision
for the supplying of the fund may require your interposition.
But regarding it as very urgent to have the work proceed during
the cool season, I have desired him, if a fund is not otherwise
provided, to cause the deputy or other representative of the
quartermaster-general at his head-quarters, to draw and negotiate
bills upon the assistant quartermaster-general at the seat of Gov-
ernment, which bills he is to indorse thus : " Approved. James
Wilkinson, Brigadier-General."

Inclosed is likewise an estimate of the cost of boats for trans-
porting down the Mississippi three thousand men, founded on a
communication from General Wilkinson.

It exceeds greatly the sum I had been led to compute from
anterior verbal information, and as the boats will be liable to
perish, I cease to recommend the measure as one immediately to
be adopted. It may perhaps be hereafter deemed advisable to
pursue it in a more limited extent, but I beg leave to refer the
matter to further consideration.

Every thing is doing to get ready the vessel which is to trans-

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 361

port artillery and stores. A passport from tlie President, show-
ing the nature of her errand, is submitted as a precaution dictated
by prudence.

It will likewise, no doubt, be considered by you whether
you will not direct insurance to be made. As there is to be a
convoy, and it is the property of government, it is probable that
the insurance may be effected at a moderate premium.

As the idea of an additional battalion for Georgia and Ten-
nessee is only surmised in your letter, and as you have not re-
plied to my last communication on this subject, I conclude that
the original plan is to take effect, and have framed my instruc-
tions to General Wilkinson on this supposition.

General Pinckney was here yesterday. I showed him the
plan, and my letter to you in which it was sent. He expressed
without reserve his satisfaction.

HAMILTON TO WILKINSON.

New-York, October 31, 1799.
Sie:

The copious explanations which have been had between us
in conversation, on the subjects of your several communications
of the 6th of September, 12th, 15th, 19th and 27th instant, will
abridge the observations naturally connected with the plan which
has been adopted as the result, and which forms the object of
the present instruction.

This plan, as you know, has the same basis with that which
has been presented by you. As far as there may be variances
in the application of principles, collateral considerations have
chiefly influenced.

It is contained in the inclosed paper, A. The letters between
the Secretary of War and myself, of which B, 0, D and E are
copies, exhibit the views which have reciprocally governed. In
the execution of this plan, many details arise which I do not en-

362 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

ter into, because tliey will most properly be left with you.
Neither would I be understood to require a literal execution.
The great outline is, under existing circumstances, to be adhered
to ; but you are at liberty to deviate in details which do not con-
travene the leading objects.

I wil] only remark, that it is deemed material that no greater
force than the plan contemplates shall be assigned to the posts
below the confluence of the Ohio with the Mississippi ; and that the
reserve force shall not be stationed more westward or southward
than the vicinity of the rapids of the Ohio.

That vicinity, as passing the obstacles of the navigation above
and facilitating a communication with the posts below, presents
itself to consideration.

A question arises, whether the north or the south side of the
Ohio should be preferred. In favor of the latter is the important
consideration, that by the contract for the ensuing year the ration
is at least two cents and eight mills cheaper there than on the
north side. On the other hand, it is possible that the troops
there may be exposed to vexations, and in danger of seduction
from the acts of disaffected persons, which might not attend them
in the ojDposite territory ; but these inconveniences do not appear
likely to be so great as to countervail so considerable a difference
in the price of the ration, though they might be allowed to pre-
vail against a small difference. Unless, therefore, there should
be some important alteration in this particular, I recommend to
you the south side for the station of your reserve force.

It will bQ my endeavor to engage the administration to or-
ganize in Tennessee, Kentucky, the north and southwestern ter-
ritories, two regiments of infantry, a battalion of riflemen, and a
regiment of dragoons, under the act which provides for an even-
tual army. This, if effected, may afford a powerful auxiliary
for defensive or offensive measures, as future exigencies may
dictate.

The recruiting for the corps of which your command is to be
composed, demands and has my particular attention. You are
apprised that the business is going on under Major Bradley in
North Carolina and Virginia, under Major Cass in the State of

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 363

Delaware, and under Major Buel in the State of Vermont. In
addition to this, I have proposed to the Secretary of War to send
to the westward bounty money and clothing for re-enlisting and
recruiting to the extent of a full regiment.

There are small detachments of recruits for the infantry of the
permanent establishment at Norfolk in Virginia, Fredericktown
in Maryland, and at West Point in the State of New- York,
which, as soon as practicable, will reinforce the army under your
command ; and exertions, efficacious as I trust, will be made to
complete the force allotted to you, and to have it on the ground
early in the next temperate season.

The new organization of the officers of the four regiments,
which you have suggested, has been transmitted to the Secretary
of War, with an expression of my opinion in its favor. K you
hear nothing to the contrary from that officer previous to your
departure for the Mississippi, you will consider the plan as ratified
— ^you will give it effect within your command. K, however, in
the execution you find small deviations expedient, you will make
them, reporting to me the instances and the motives.

The inspectors of division and brigades, recommended by
you, are appointed. The affair of judge advocate, has not yet
been definitively acted upon.

The propriety of strongly fortifying Loftus's Heights, being
on all sides admitted, so far as the force which can be allowed
for this object will permit, it remains to say something concern-
ing the kind of fortification.

Professing no skill as an engineer, and, as a consequence of
the improvidence of our national policy in time past, possessing
no competent aid in others, I shall attempt nothing more than to
offer hints. Indeed, a critical view of the local situation in all
its bearings, not merely a representation on paper of the part
which looks toward the river, ought to guide and regulate the
plan which is to be definitively adopted. This, therefore, must be
left to you, with the help of the best lights you have or can
procure.

But I will observe, that it appears to me advisable to occupy
the summit of the height with a fort or redoubt, in nature of a

364 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

citadel, adapted to a garrison of four Inindred men, and capable,
as far as possible, of resisting, by its construction, a coup de main,
and of obliging an enemy, not in a condition to make consider-
able sacrifices of men, to attack it in form.

This redoubt, with a battery towards the river, at the point
F, in the plan you have furnished, is as much as can be im-
mediately undertaken. In process of time, if the relative situ-
ation of territorial boundary remains as it now is, it will proba-
bly be necessary to extend from this citadel, in different direc-
tions, outworks, which, in conjunction with the citadel, will
require a thousand men for their defence. This operation may
be a successive one.

The idea of resisting a siege, presupposes a work of solid ma-
terials, as well as of regular design. You have stated that brick
is of easy fabrication in the vicinity ; wood, of an elastic quality,
it is presumed, may also be procured with facility. A rev6tement
of brick, with an interior of wood and earth mingled, will form a
strong fortress, at a moderate expense. Your estimate of the
expense of a water battery, barracks, and magazine, present a
total of 16,024 dollars ; and you compute that a similar sum will
suffice for a work such as you contemplate.

I have informed the Secretary of War that you would be au-
thorized by me to incur an expense not exceeding this sum for
the purpose in question, unless he should signify his negative to
you before your departure. But while this sum is given to you
as a limit, it is believed that the object may be accomplished for
less, and it is not doubted that you will exert yourself to have it
done as cheaply as possible.

In this place, an answer to your inquiry as to the proper em-
ployment of the soldiery, very fitly occurs. Doubtless, utility
and usage both unite to recommend the employment of the sol-
diery in the construction of works as far as may be practicable.
Not to do it must tend to an augmentation of expense which
the finances of no country can bear ; besides that it is to fore-
go a powerful instrument already prepared for accomplishing
the object.

I do not overlook the obstacle from the climate which you

^T. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 365

mention in reference to our soiitliern frontier. But for a great
part of tlie year, I must hope tliat tliis obstacle is not formida-
ble. If the heats of July and August, and the sultry damps of
September, should drive us during that period to another re-
source ; yet the residue of the year it is hoped will permit the
labor of the troops to be employed with advantage. I am well
informed that on the sea-board of South Carolina and Georgia,
the season from November to April, inclusively, is deemed un-
exceptionable for the employment of troops in laborious opera-
tions. In the three months which have been mentioned, it may
be requisite to hire the labor of negroes, but even then there may
be things to which that of whites can, without injury, be applied.
In general the idea must be to construct the works by the
labor of the soldiery. The resort to a different aid must be by
way of exception, to be used as little as possible ; circumstances
may be permitted to decide in each case whether to continue
any works with the aid of blacks, during the hot season, or to
suspend them till the return of a season favorable to the ex-
ertion.

You will find in my letter to the Secretary, doubts as to the
permanent maintenance of Fort Stoddart. That part of the
plan which conforms to the disposition you have made, calls for
your careful revision. You will ascertain the practicability of a
safe and easy interior communication, without more expense to
prepare it than the advantage may be worth. There is an in-
trinsically strong objection to the keeping of a post to which the
access must be through a foreign territory.

The importance of securing and commanding the confluence
of the rivers Tennessee and Cumberland with the Ohio, and of
the latter with the Mississippi, has been duly felt by you. The
selection of a spot the most eligible for a strong fort, with a view
to this object and the kind of work which it will be proper to
establish, are worthy of your early and careful attention. You
must, however, bear in mind that it is to be successively effected
by the labor of the troops. A garrison of five hundred men
may be the standard of the dimensions. You will report to me
the result of your investigations on this subject.

366 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42,

In a permanent arrangement for the galleys, watermen ought
to be engaged for the mass of the crew.

Perhaps some soldiers may be employed as auxiliaries with-
out inconvenience, and with saving. A provision by law is
requisite for the first purpose. You will order the galleys to
such situation as you judge best. You are informed that
the artillery you have requested for Fort Adams, with corres-
pondent ammunition and stores, have been ordered, and are to
embark with you for the Mississippi. It will be my endeavor
that such other artillery as may be necessary in conformity with
the general plan shall be forwarded as soon as possible. As to
the artillery and stores now at the several western posts, it is
your province to have them disposed of as you deem most
advisable.

I have desired E. Stevens, Esq., to procure the mathematical
instruments which you have requested. A regular military aca-
demy appears to me indispensable, and will command, in refer-
ence to the ensuing session of Congress, my best exertions for
its establishment. This meets your suggestion as to mathemati-
cal teachers.

The general orders issued by you, which you have submitted
to my perusal, have been considered. They appear to me pro-
per. But as I intend to prepare, in the course of the winter, a
code of regulations which will embrace their objects, I forbear to
give any formal sanction to them at this time. They will re-
main in force by your authority.

Your convention with the Spanish Governor respecting de-
serters, considered as a temporary arrangement, appears to me a
measure of convenient operation. Yet it is beyond my powers
to give it an authoritative sanction, and I have concluded not to
ask one of the government, from the opinion that it is best it
should retain the shape of a mere military arrangement between
the local commanders. In this respect I do not hesitate to advise
that it may continue to be executed.

I understand that arrangements have been made which will
satisfy a portion of the arrears of pay which you state to be due
to the troops in the western quarter. The subject shall not

yEx. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 367

cease to occupy my anxious attention. It is impossible to feel
more strongly than I do the extreme impolicy of permitting
large arrears to accumulate. The affair of boats to be provided
and kept ready for the transportation of troops, upon an emer-
gency, will be matter of future instruction. Should the Spanish
Governor or Commander object to the conveyance of your artil-
lery and stores to their destination, you will make a formal and
peremptory requisition of free passage on the basis of treaty, and
persevere in it till there shall be an unequivocal refusal, when
you will send back the vessel with those articles to Savannah
and Georgia, addressed to the commanding officer of the artillery
of the United States at that place.

Your own permanent station will of course be with your
reserve force ; and it is expected that you will lose no time in
repairing to it as early as may be, after the coming winter.

In the mean time, it is necessary for you to concentre all the
upper posts, under the superintendence of the officer next in
seniority, and to assign to him such a position as will facilitate a
communication with me for the transmission of returns and in-
formation ; taking care to let him understand that he is no more
than your organ — an idea to which I shall be scrupulously at-
tentive on my part.

The policy of our government towards Spain continues as
heretofore, pacific and conciliatory. You will of course give
the same character to your proceedings, as far as may depend
upon you.

By a communication from the Secretary of War, some time
since received, it is indicated that the management of Indian
affairs is exclusively reserved to the superintendents and their
agents ; the military officers to be auxiliary, but only so as to
imply no control of military operations. It will be expedient,
nevertheless, that all issues to Indians at military posts should
appear, in returns from them, not confounded with the issues for
the military, but distinct. You will, as far as may depend upon
you, give effect to this system with a spirit of accommodation.
Emergencies really extraordinary must always be exceptions to
a general plan. These must be left to the discretion of a military
commander, at his peril.

368 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42,

I conform in an especial manner to tlie views of the adminis-
tration, and to the deep impressions of my own mind, derived
from a full consideration of the comparative resources and neces-
sities of our country, when I recommend to you in every
arrangement a careful regard to economy. Without it, our gov-
ernment cannot maintain the institutions or pursue the measures
which are essential to its security and welfare. Without it, the
condition of its military force can neither be respectable nor satis-
factory. The interest of the army, as a corps, concurs with that
of the public at large to enforce the practice of economy as a
primary duty. I entertain a full confidence that your conduct
will always evince a due sense of its imjDortance, and that it will
not cease to be your study, in this and every other matter, to de-
serve the confidence and estimation of the government.

In regard to the citizens of the western country, as far as
your agency may be concerned, you will do every thing to fos-
ter good will and attachment towards the government of the
United States. A firm and cordial union is certainly the vital
interest of every part of our country.

HAMILTON TO

New-York, October 31st, 1799.

Sir:

I have received your several letters of the twenty-third of
September, and of the fourth and eighth of October.

No particular rules were laid down for the government of the
colonels and majors, in the arrangement of relative rank, as it
was supposed that they would naturally take into consideration
all circumstances which, in a military point of view, give one
man the preference to another.

Former service is certainly to have weight, and, where there
is no material difference of character, is to govern the decision.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 369

Officers of a subsequent will rank after those of a prior ap-
pointment.

The majors are all of one grade. There will be, however,
between them, a priority of rank ; and this priority will be de-
termined by the principles of rank heretofore promulgated, when
they come to be applied to particular cases.

CONJECTURES m THE FORM OF QUERIES.

1799.

Might not a stage wagon be so constituted as to answer the
purpose of limber to a field-piece, an ammunition wagon, and a
vehicle for the transportation of twelve men ? Might not a pin-
tle be fixed behind of sufficient strength to receive the trail upon
it, and draw the carriage after it ? Might not the seats of the
carriage be converted into ammunition boxes, to the extent of
50 or 60 rounds ? Might not such a wagon convey as many
men as we often see in the stages; and is not the baggage
usually carried in stages nearly as heavy as 50 or 60 rounds for
nine-pounders? Might not four horses, to be changed every
ten or fifteen miles, convey such a field-piece with men and am-
munition to a distance of fifty miles, between sunset and sunrise,
and be ready for action at the instant of arrival ? Might not an
action be supported on an extraordinary occasion, by six or
eight men to each piece, and in so much lessen the difficulties of
transportation ?

Suppose the weight to be drawn to be 1500 pounds more
than a stage usually carries, when full, would not the more fre-
quent change of horses obviate the objection?

In case of expending all the ammunition, might not a retreat
be effected with great celerity, as short turnings do not occur
in a long march through an open country ? Might not the fore-
wheels be of greater diameter than usual, and facilitate the trans-
portation ?

E 24

3Y0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

A carriage with its limber would require three horses for
a long march. The expense of the transportation is there-
fore confined to an additional horse. It is presumed that under
imperious circumstances, the relays might be furnished by im-
pressing horses.

HAMILTON TO COLONEL READE.

New-York, Nov. 2d, 1799,

Sir:

I have received your letters of the 27th and 29th of September,

There is as yet no established rule on the subject of forage.
I have proposed one to the Secretary of War, but it has not yet
received his sanction. In the mean time you will exercise a
proper discretion in the case.

There is a fixed sum which is to be received in the lieu of
forage, when the article is not actually drawn. Officers, there-
fore, should be careful not to draw a larger quantity than is pro-
portioned to the established price.

The system makes no provision of artificers for the infantry.
Four women are allowed to a company, and draw rations with
the men.

Soldiers are not entitled to rations for the time they have
been on furlough.

When half a gill of spirits is issued to each soldier, the offi-
cers are entitled to one, and they are to receive half a gill for
each ration they are allowed.

It is to be understood, that officers draw the spirits only when
they draw the other parts of the ration, and not when they re-
ceive the price instead of the articles.

It is agreeable to me, that you should fix upon Avery s as a
rendezvous. With regard to every thing but the recruiting ser-
vice you are under the command of General Pinckney, and to him
you will apply for instructions.

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 371

HAMILTON TO SMITH.

(private.)

New-York, Nov. 11th, 1799.

Sir:

Herewith is an official answer to your letter. I regret tlie in-
timation with which, it is closed, to which, however, I can and
must annex no precise meaning, I will only observe upon it,
that in no sense can the affair be viewed as a personal injury, or
be proper for the manifestations of personal resentment in any
form. Any one who should give you a different opinion can
hardly be your friend. Such an opinion, if followed, could be
productive of no possible advantage, and would be attended in
various ways with great inconvenience to you.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRT.

New- York, Nov. 12, 1799.

Sir:

I am this moment honored with your letter of the 8th inst.
Considering the nature of my agency in respect to the subject of
it, I must understand the remarks which are made as not apply-
ing to what I have done, but to the previous measures of Gen.
Wilkinson. It is known to you that the project was adopted
and acted upon long before I was in command ; that, agreeing
in opinion with Gen. Wilkinson as to the expediency of the
measure, I submitted it to the Commander-in-Chief, whose con-
currence it received ; that, in a written communication to you, I
supported the propriety of completing the work on a specified
scale ; that afterwards in conversation it was expressed by you
to be your impression, that, situated as the matter was, it must
proceed, unless the further expense necessary should, upon esti-
timate, appear to be very considerable.

372 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

The addition of 16,000 dollars on the aggregate of 32,000,
for establishing an important barrier post, did not strike me as a
large, but as a very moderate expenditure ; such as would not
contravene the most scrupulous ideas of economy in national
affairs.

Hence I presumed on the ready sanction of the Executive ;
yet did I not suffer this presumption to engage me in any defini-
tive act, but confined myself to giving promissory authority, sub-
ject to the eventual control of the President through you as his
organ.

Even this much I should not have done, had it not been for
the previous circumstances, and had there not been a pressure as
to time, owing to the necessity of expediting General Wilkinson,
for which purpose the delivery of my instructions was an essential
preliminary. Considering the circumstances, I cannot but believe
that I have acted with all proper delicacy and caution ; as, on
the other hand, it is evident that I have in no shape infringed the
general principle which is advanced in your letter.

To this principle, as it respects permanent fortification, I
subscribe without reserve ; and I agree that it is always right for
military commanders, when the exigencies of service do not
command the contrary, to forbear measures involving consider-
able expense till they shall have been considered and sanctioned
by the Executive. It seems to me, too, that in my practice the
rule has been observed even beyond its terms and spirit; but I
cannot adopt the opinion, that every measure^ in all its circum-
stances, which may involve considerable expenditure, should be
submitted through the Secretary of the appropriate department to
the President for his approval, and that, without such approval,
formally and explicitly announced, no act leading to its execu-
tion should take place.

In the course of military operations, measures which involve
very great expense are frequently indispensable, without incur-
ring the delay of resorting to the Executive as a prehminary.

A precise rule for distinguishing the different cases is imprac-
ticable ; it must be matter of sound discretion and of fair confi-
dence on all sides.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 373

The disbursements, finally, must no doubt be regulated by
the laws of appropriation ; but provisory measures will often be
unavoidable, and confidence must sometimes be reposed in an
after legislative sanction and provision.

This has been the course in times past, and it must always be
the case, A different plan will arrest and disorder all the wheels
of public service. The theory of no system can be invariably
pursued with liberal strictness,

I commit myself without hesitation to the consequences of
this opinion, because, as far as I am concerned, I would rather
be responsible on proper occasions for formal deviations, than for
a feeble, insufiieient and unprosperous course of public business,
proceeding from an over-scrupulous adherence to general rules ;
and I have no doubt that a different spirit will ever be found in
experience injurious equally to the interests of the state and to
the reputation and success of the persons whom it may govern.
I understand that such a progress has been made in the business
as that the plan cannot now be relinquished without loss of the
fruits of past expense ; but I am not so well informed on this
point as to be able to present it as a positive ground of determi.
nation.

I adhere, however, without hesitation, to the opinion that it
is expedient to pursue the plan upon the scale which has been
contemplated. It is very true that this fort could not be ex-
pected to interrupt a great invading force ; but it would be an
obstacle to the enterprises of such a force as now exists, or is
likely to be found in the quarter in question.

It would give additional security to the troops, who, with the
views you mention, must be stationed within the scene. It would
also be more impressive on the Indians ; and the diflference be-
tween the expense of the fort intended and that which you indi-
cate, would be inconsiderable, I shall take care that such a
communication be made to General Wilkinson, as that there may
be no danger in future of his undertaking a permanent fortifica-
tion without the previous approbation of the Executive,

But, if it is thought proper to arrest the execution of the plan
communicated, I must beg that you will address your orders im-

374 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

mediately to General Wilkinson, since it is probable that they
would not reacb here in time, if they are to pass through me.
With great respect and esteem,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your obedient servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, Nov. 18th, 1799.

Sir:

I have been duly honored with your letter of the 26th and
27th of October.

General Pinckney happening to be at my house when they
were received, I communicated them to him, together with such
other letters as had come to hand relating to the same subject;
and I have since furnished him with the subsequent information
transmitted to me, in order that he might take the proper meas-
ures in whatever might require his interposition. This would
principally be to order the tenth regiment to Carlisle.

It is my duty, in compliance with your inquiry concerning
the delay of payment of the troops, to enter into a free explana-
tion. The complaints of which you have heard, have certainly
existed * * * * and they have existed in the northern as
well as in the southern quarter * * * * and the painful
circumstance is, that they have been well founded. — There has,
no doubt, been a great and a very unfortunate delay, which has
been a pretext for, if not a cause of, desertion, which has made
ill impressions on the minds of the troops, and has occasioned
much embarrassment to the officers.

The history of the course of the business will best unfold the
causes of the delay.

Early after the recruiting service was in train, I caused to be
prepared and transmitted to the several regiments, the forms of
muster and pay-rolls. — If my information be right, muster and

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 375

pay-rolls were made out according to these forms, and forwarded
first to the Department of War, afterwards to the office of the
paymaster-general.

It has since appeared that forms for muster and pay-rolls had
been previously established by the Department of War, but these
forms were never sent to me, nor otherwise communicated to
the additional regiments, till some time after the arrival of the
paymaster-general at Philadelphia. A compliance with them on
the part of the distant regiments, the officers of which, for the
purpose of recruiting, were dispersed over extensive regions,
would, of course, involve a very distressing delay, in addition to
that which unavoidably attended the mustering of the troops,
and the preparation of the rolls on the plan which I had pre-
scribed ; yet for some time a compliance with these new forms
seems to have been expected as a preliminary to the transmis-
sion of the money.

But in consequence of very importunate representations from
me, and it being admitted that the diffijrent rolls corresponded
in substantial points, I was given to understand by the paymas-
ter-general, that as to past dues, the new forms would not be in-
sisted upon, but that the money would be sent without waiting
for them.

Difficulties, however, about modes of remitting the money,
which, it is believed had before operated in producing delay, con-
tinued to occasion it ; and to this moment the three most north-
ern and two most southern regiments remain unsupplied.

To call every regimental paymaster to the seat of govern-
ment as often as money is to be paid, is inadmissible on the
score of delay, as well as of expense. To send them the money
by post, must involve the double risk of loss in the post-office,
and loss by a fraudulent concealment of the receipt of it. To
send it to intermediate public agents, must be attended with the
same risk, though in a less degree. The paymaster-general, in
order to discharge himself at the Treasury, is obliged to produce
vouchers in certain prescribed forms, which he has been (as he
states) in the habit of obtaining before he parted with any money
out of his hands ; and he appeared to be fearful of a deviation
from this course.

376 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 42.

The truth is, that these difficulties being inherent in the na-
ture of the thing, thej ought, for this very reason, as I conceive,
to have been overcome. Similar ones occur in all the pecuniary
operations of the government, and it has been found indispensa-
ble to surmount them by expedients. The same expedients
which are familiar in other cases, would have answered in the
one under consideration.

In my opinion, the paymaster-general would have done right
not to have been deterred by the additional responsibility which
might have attended the employment of the usual expedients.
In my opinion, if peculiar caution was incumbent upon him as a
subordinate officer, it was to have been expected that the Secre-
tary of War, in concert with the Secretary of the Treasury, would
have interposed to remove the impediment by sanctioning a
course which was unavoidable.

It is not my fault that the obstacles have not been surmounted.
Aware, that in the first stages of the raising of new corps, (of
which most of the officers as well as the men were unacquainted
with service,) where the officers, for the purpose of recruiting,
were dispersed over extensive districts, delay and difficulty would
unavoidably attend the preparation of muster and pay-rolls in
strict form— strongly impressed with the idea that it was of
great importance, in the first instance, to inspire the troops with

favorable ideas of the justice and attention of the government

and that it would be very inexpedient to have to assign to the
non-commissioned officers and privates excuses for the delay of
their dues on the score of want of formal documents, which it did
not lie with them to prepare — I pressed the Secretary of War and
the paymaster-general for advances of money to the several regi-
ments, in anticipation of those documents, upon estimates of which
I furnished the data. I thought the temporary departure from
ordinary rules, and the small addition of risk, from dispensing
with the usual preliminary checks, were less evils than those
which were irreparable from any considerable procrastination of
payment.

But my efforts were not successful. Expectations, which, in
consequence of my representations, were given to me by the

iET. 42.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 377

paymaster-general, and wliicli were by me given to the command-
ants of regiments, were not fulfilled. Disappointment and dis-
satisfaction have, of course, ensued.

It is but candor for me to mention, that while Secretary of
the Treasury, I had knowledge of the forms which had been
prescribed ; but I had entirely forgotten the circumstance. And
it is self-evident that all regulations prescribed by the Depart-
ment of War, for observance in an army, ought to be commu-
nicated from that department, either to the military commander
or to the chief of the particular branch of service to which they
relate — and that it is not incumbent upon the millitary com-
mander to make inquiry of the Department of War for them ; I
therefore did what was natural in the case— I prescribed forms,
where I did not know that any had been previously established
by superior authority.

It is very probable that the necessity of transmitting these
forms did not occur to the Secretary of War. Or he may have
considered it as the province of the paymaster-general to do it ;
but this officer being with the western array, a very great delay
could not fail to attend the transmission of them by him. The
truth is, that a want of sufficient organization in this particular,
as in others, occasioned an omission.

The only material remark in respect to it is — that the omission
having happened, it was a decisive reason for not insisting upon
the forms in question as a preliminary to payment.

Upon the whole, (since I have not understood that there was
any deficiency of money,) I am led to conclude that unwilling-
ness to incur extraordinary responsibility, by a deviation from
general rules, has been a principal cause of the very inconve-
nient delay which has been experienced. The mode of proceed-
ing has certainly not corresponded with my ideas of propriety
and expediency ; yet I do not presume to expect that my ideas
should be a standard for the conduct of others. And I am cer-
tainly very far from imagining, that any motive more exceptiona-
ble than the one I have suggested, has had the least influence in
the affair. The paymaster is, no doubt, shielded by his instruc-
tions.

378 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

I trust that things are now in a train for a more satisfactory
course in future.

With perfect respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, November 23, 1799.

Sir:

The near approach of a session of Congress will naturally
lead you to the consideration of such measures for the improve-
ment of our military system as may require legislative sanction.

Under this impression, I am induced now to present to you
some objects which appear to me very interesting, and shall take
the liberty to add hereafter such others as shall have occurred.

One which I have always thought of primary importance, is
a military academy. This object has repeatedly engaged the
favorable attention of the administration, and some steps to-
wards it have been taken. But these, as yet, are very inade-
quate. A more perfect plan is in a high degree desirable.

No sentiment is more just than this, that in proportion as the
circumstances and policy of a country forbid a large military es-
tablishment, it is important that as much perfection as possible
should be given to that which may at any time exist. Since it
is agreed, that we are not to keep on foot numerous forces in-
structed and disciplined, military science in its various branches
ought to be cultivated with peculiar care, in proper nurseries,
so that there may always exist a sufficient body of it ready to be
imparted and diffused, and a competent number of persons quah-
fied to act as instructors to the additional troops, which events
may successively require to be raised.

This will be to substitute the elements of an army to the thing
itself, and it will greatly tend to enable the government to dis-
pense with a large body of standing forces from the facility
which it will give of forming officers and soldiers promptly upon
emergencies.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 379

No sound mind can doubt the essentiality of military science
in time of war, any more than the moral certainty that the most
pacific policy on the part of a government will not preserve it
from being engaged in war more or less frequently.

To avoid great evils, it must either have a respectable force
prepared for service, or the means of preparing such a force
with expedition. The latter, most agreeeable to the genius of
our government and nation, is the object of a military academy.

I propose that this academy shall consist of five schools — one
to be called " The Fundamental School ;" another, " The School
of Engineers and Artillerists;" another, "The School of Cav-
alry ;" another, " The School of Infantry ;" and a fifth, " The
School of the Navy ;" and of the following offices and per-
sons :

A director-general, to superintend the whole institution.

A director of the Fundamental School.

A director of the School of Engineers and Artillerists.

A director of the School of Cavalry.

A director of the School of Infantry.

A director of the School of the Navy.

Six professors of mathematics.

Three professors of natural philosophy.

One professor of chemistry.

Two architects.

Two drawing masters.

A riding master.

A fencing master.

To be thus distributed among the several schools.
To the Fundamental School :

A director,

Four professors of mathematics,

One professor of natural philosophy.

One drawing master.
To the School of Engineers and Artillerists :

A director,

380 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^T. 42.

A professor of mathematics,

A professor of natural pliilosopliy,

A professor of chemistry,

An architect,

A dravvinfy master.
To the School of Cavalry :

A director,

A riding master,

A fencing master.
To the School of Infantry :

A director.
To the School of the Navy:

A director,

A professor of mathematics,

A professor of natural philosophy,

An architect.
In the Fundamental School to be taught :

Arithmetic, algebra, geometry, the laws of motion, me-
chanics, geography, topography and surveying, design-
ing of structures and landscapes.

The principles of tactics.
In the School of Engineers and Artillerists to be taught :

Fluxions, conic sections, hydraulics, hydrostatics and
pneumatics ;

The theory and practice of gunnery.

Fortifications, including sapping and mining, and the at-
tack and defence of places ;

Chemistry, especially mineralogy ;

The fabrication of cannon and other arms ;

The principles of construction, with particular reference
to aqueducts, canals and bridges ;

The composition of artificial fires.
In the School of Cavalry :

The tactics and police of cavalry, equitation, the use of
the small and broad sword.
In the School of Infantry :

The tactics and police of the infantry.

jet.42.] military papers. 381

In the ScTiool of the Navy :

Spherics, astronomy, navigation, with the doctrines of the

tides ;
Naval architecture.
The director-general and the other directors to be officers of
the army and navy, conforming to the nature of each school.

These schools to be provided with proper apparatus and in-
struments for philosophical and chemical experiments, for astro-
nomical and nautical observations, and for surveying, and for
such other processes as are requisite to the illustration of the
several topics of instruction.

The cadets of the army, and young persons who are destined
for military and naval service, ought to study for two years in
the Fundamental School ; and if destined for the corps of en-
gineers and artillerists, or for the navy, two years more in the
appropriate school; but persons who, by previous instruction
elsewhere, may have been acquainted with some or all of the
branches taught in the Fundamental School, may, after due ex-
amination by the professors of that school, be either received
there for a shorter term, or pass immediately to one of the other
schools, according to the nature and extent of their acquisitions.
In addition to these, detachments of officers and non-commis-
sioned officers of the army ought to attend the academy in rota-
tion, for the purposes of instruction and exercise, according to
the nature of the corps to which they respectively belong.

It would be a wise addition to the system, if the government
would always have such a number of sergeants, in addition to
those belonging to the regiments of the establishment, as would
suffice with them for an army of 50,000 men.

The site of the academy ought to be upon a navigable water.
For this purpose, a piece of ground ought to be purchased by
the government, of dimensions sufficient for experiments in gun-
nery, that is, not less than twelve hundred yards in length, and
four hundred yards in breadth. The situation upon a navigable
water is requisite to admit of exemplifications of naval construc-
tion and exercises.

It would also tend greatly to the perfection of the plan if a

382 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 42.

position for tlie academy could be obtained, suited to founderies
of cannon and manufactories of small arms. The pupils could
here acquire the knowledge of the arts, and the detachments of
troops could be made useful in the prosecution of the works.

Barracks and other proper buildings must be erected for the
accommodation of the directors, professors, and students, and for
laboratories and other works to be carried on.

It is proposed by the foregoing plan, that the school of engi-
neers and artillerists shall be united. The studies relative to
these two branches of service run into each other so much, that
they may with convenience be pursued in the same school.

Yet it is conceived, that the entire union of the oflEicers of
both in one corps, as in our present establishment, is not advi-
sable. The art of fortification, and the service of artillery,
though touching each other in many points, are, in the main, dis-
tinct branches, and each so comprehensive, that this separation
is essential to perfection in either.

This has been ascertained by experience. It is understood
that one or more governments of Europe, particularly attentive
to the military art, have essayed the union of the two corps, in-
duced to it by their mutual relations in certain respects, and by
the desire of insuring harmony in the service, and that the result
of the experiment has led to a renunciation of the plan, as being
productive of more disadvantages than advantages.

Influenced, as well by this experience in other countries, as
by my own observations and reflections, I beg leave to suggest
for consideration a new arrangement on the subject, to be sub-
mitted, if approved, to the legislative body.

Let the corps of engineers and artillerists be placed under
one head, that head to be a general officer ; but let the other offi-
cers be separated, and form a distinct corps.

A regiment of engineer officers, and two of artillery officers,
will form a due proportion in the scale of our militaiy establish-
ment. If deemed inexpedient to increase the total number of
officers, the object maybe effected by suppressing two of the bat-
talions of the corps, as now organized, increasing the number of
non-commissioned officers and privates in the remaining batta-

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 383

lions, so as to continue the present total, and transferring the
surplus officers, with due selection to the regiment of engineers,
to be composed of two battalions.

Instead of the artificers at present forming a part of each
company, let there be a corps of miners and artificers, consisting
of four companies, one company of armorers and smiths, one of
wheelwrights and carpenters, one of masons, and one of miners.
This corps to be a portion of the corps of engineers and artille-
rists under the command of its chief The officers to be taken
from the regiment of engineers and artillerists at his discretion,
continuing, nevertheless, to rank and rise in the corps from which
they may be taken, but the President to be empowered, if he
thinks proper, to appoint others to their places in the regiment
from which they shall be detached. The union of these different
corps under one chief, is intended to promote a spirit of harmony
and co-operation, while the separation of the other officers is de-
signed to favor a more profound and accurate knowledge of each
branch.

It will no doubt be observed, that though provision should
be made by the law for the proposed establishment in its full
latitude, yet it may be left in the discretion of the President to
appoint only so many of the professors as experience shall show
to be necessary.

With great respect and esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York. Nov. 28th, 1799.

Sir:

Inclosed is a copy of a letter which I have written to the
Secretary of War on the subject of a 'military academy.

Two reasons have prevented me from communicating it to
you at an earlier day. My avocations rendered it impossible for
me to complete the letter till very lately, and I had had oppor-
tunities of knowing your opinion on the subject generally.

384 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

Any alterations in tlie plan whicli you may do me the lion9r
to suggest will receive the most careful attention.
With the truest respect and attachment,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

His Excellency, the Commander-in-Chief.

HAMILTON TO M'HENEY.

New- York, Nov. 30th, 1799.

Sir:

The preparation of a good system for the tactics police of the
different portions of our army is probably the most valuable
service which it may be in my power to render the United States
in my present station, and there are urgent reasons why this
should be accomplished in the course of the present winter.

To do it at all would in every situation require the aid of
others ; since I do not pretend, myself, to understand in detail
all the branches of service. To do it within the time proposed,
or rather within any period not manifestly longer than it would
be prudent to delay, must render a subdivision indispensable,
were I competent to the whole.

I have accordingly thought of this distribution of the sub-
ject:— 1. To occupy myself with the tactics of the infantry. 2.
To confide to General Pinckney, with the aid of Brigadier-Gen-
eral Washington, Colonel Watts, and Lieutenant Walbach, or
such of them as he may choose, the tactics of the cavalry. 3. To
employ Majors Toussard and Hoops in framing regulations for
the exercise and police of the artillery. And lastly, to charge
the adjutant-general, aided by another ofi&cer, to be selected by
him, with the regulations for the police of troops in camp, quarters
and garrisons.

The labors of these different persons will afterwards undergo
revision for adoption or correction, and then will be transmit-

yET.42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 385

ted to you for your consideration, and tlie determination of the

President.

But as this service will occasion constant and laborious occu-
pation to the persons who will be employed, it is just and agree-
able to usage to allow a special compensation. This, too, will be
expected by them, and is essential to a cheerful and zealous exe-
cution of the duty. An allowance per diem not less than one
dollar nor more than two will suffice. It may vary in reference
to rank. It, of course, will not be expected to extend to General
Pinckney, the adjutant-general, or myself

I entreat a speedy decision and the communication of it.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

Philadelphia, December, 1799.

Sir:

Pursuant to an instruction some time since received from
you, I have now the honor to offer to your consideration a new
plan for the uniform of the army.

You are too sensible of the influence of good appearance in
point of dress and equipment upon the spirit and temper of an
army, to make it necessary to illustrate its importance.

The present uniform is materially defective in this respect.
The plan now offered has been digested with a careful eye to the
advantages of good appearance, without departing improperly
from considerations of simplicity and economy.

It is very desirable that there should be an early decision
upon it, as a great number of officers suspend the procuring of
new uniform in expectation of a change ; and if obliged by delay
to provide according to the present standard, would be exposed
in case of alteration to an additional expense, which, to many of
them, would be burthensome.

As to any article not provided for by law, an expectation
may be signified that it will be provided at the expense of the
E 25

386 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

troops themselves. It is believed that this idea will meet with
no impediment.

I send you an estimate of clothing necessary for the future
years' supply of the troops under my immediate command. If
materials for coats, vests, and overalls could be soon put into the
hands of the different corps, they might be made up during the
winter-quarters, which would save expense to the public, and
afford an opportunity of having the articles much better fitted to
the wearers of them.

HAMILTON TO M'HENET.

Philadelphia, December, 1799.

Sir:

I have heretofore submitted to you a scale for the allowance
of servants to the different grades of officers, with some supple-
mentary ideas. I beg leave to add another suggestion in rela-
tion to this subject.

The detaching from their corps soldiers as servants to the
various of&cers of the general staff, is productive of material in-
convenience, by withdrawing altogether from military service a
considerable number of persons ; and occasions dissatisfaction to
the commandants of corps who never see their men removed
without uneasiness, and are sometimes much disgusted by the
selection of those whom they are anxious to retain. There is no
doubt that it would operate beneficially, if, after fixing the num-
ber of servants to which the several characters of the general
staff should be entitled, they were to be allowed an equivalent in
money regulated by the cost of a soldier to the public, and were
to be required to provide their own servants. Penalties may
secure the faithful execution of this arrangement, which, from
the force of circumstances, would be very liable to abuse.

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 387

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, Dec. 12th * 1799,

Sie:

I have duly received your letter of the 28th ultimo, inclosing
a copy of what you had written to the Secretary of War, on the
subject of a Military Academy.

The establishment of an institution of this kind, upon a
respectable and extensive basis, has ever been considered by me
as an object of primary importance to this country; and while I
was in the chair of government, I omitted no proper opportunity
of recommending it, in my public speeches and other ways, to
the attention of the legislature : but I never undertook to go into
a detail of the organization of such an academy ; leaving this
task to others, whose pursuits in the paths of science, and atten-
tion to the arrangements of such institutions, had better qualified
them for the execution of it.

For the same reason, I must now decline making any observa-
tions on the details of your plan ; and as it has already been
submitted to the Secretary of War, through whom it would
naturally be laid before Congress, it might be too late for altera-
tions, if any should be suggested.

I sincerely hope that the subject will meet with due attention,
and that the reasons for its establishment, which you have so
clearly pointed out in your letter to the Secretary, will prevail
upon the legislature to place it upon a permanent and respectable
footing.

With very great esteem and regard, I am, sir,
Your most obedient servant,

George Washington.

General Hamilton.
* The last letter written by Washington, who died December 14th, 1799.

388 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42.

HAMILTON TO GENERAL PINCKNEY.

Philadelphia, Dec, 1799.

Sir:

The death of our beloved Commander-in-Chief was known to
you before it was to me. I can be at no loss to anticipate what
have been your feelings. I need not tell you what have been
mine. Perhaps no friend of his has more cause to lament on
personal account than myself. The public misfortune is one
which all the friends of our government will view in the same
light. I will not dwell on the subject. My imagination is
gloomy — my heart is sad.

Inclosed is an order relative to the occasion which speaks its
own object.

With the sincerest esteem and most

Affectionate regard, I remain, sir,

Your very obedient servant.

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, Dec. 18, 1799.

Sir:

The inclosed special directions from the President of the
United States, relative to the funeral honors to be paid to the
memory of their late illustrious and beloved chief, General George
Washington, by the army of the United States, you are requested
to be particularly attentive to, so as to insure by your orders the
most reverential testimonials, of that profound grief, with which
every good heart must be penetrated, at the loss of a citizen,
statesman, and commander, so eminently distinguished for virtues,
talents and services.

You and I on this solemn occasion, experiencing, in common
with our fellow-citizens, deep regret for our country's loss, have

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 389

our sorrows heightened bj a recollection of his friendship to-
wards us both, and the many days we have spent as members of
his family and sharers of his confidence.

GENERAL ORDER FOR THE CEREMONIAL TO BE USED ON THE
INTERMENT OF WASHINGTON.

1799.

Major-General Hamilton has received, through the Secretary
of "War, the following order from the President of the United
States.

" The President, &c."

The impressive terms in which this calamitous event is an-
nounced by the President, could receive no new force from any
thing that might be added. The voice of praise would in vain ]
endeavor to exalt a name unrivalled on the lists of true glory. |
Words would in vain attempt to give utterance to the profound
and reverential grief which will enthral every American bosom,
and arrest the sympathy of an admiring world. If the sad privi-
lege of pre-eminence in sorrow may justly be claimed from the
companions in arms of our lamented chief, their affections will
spontaneously perform the dear though painful duty. 'Tis only
for me to mingle my tears with theirs, embittered by recollection
that in mourning the loss of the " Man of the Age," I equally
mourn that of the long-tried patron — the kind and unchanging
friend.

In obedience to the directions of the President, the follow-
ing funeral honors will be paid at the several stations of the
army.

At daybreak, sixteen guns will be fired in quick succession,
and one gun at the distance of each half hour, till sunset.

During the procession of the troops to the place representing
that of the interment, and until the conclusion of the ceremonial,
minute guns wiH be fired.

390 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 42.

The bier will be received by tlie troops formed in line pre-
senting their arms, and the officers, drums, and colors saluting.
After this the procession will begin : the troops marching by
platoons, in inverted order, and with arms reversed, to the place
of interment, the drums muffled, and the music playing a dead
march.

The bier, carried by four sergeants, and attended by six pall-
bearers, where there is cavalry, will be preceded by the cavalry,
and will be followed by the troops on foot.

Where there is no cavalry, a detachment of infantry will
precede the bier, which itself will in every case be preceded by
such of the clergy as may be present. The officers of the general
staff will immediately succeed the bier.

Where a numerous body of citizens shall be united with the
military in the procession, the whole of the troops will precede
the bier, which will be followed by the citizens.

When arrived near the place of interment, the procession
will halt ; the troops in front of the bier will form in line, and,
opening their ranks, will face inwards, to admit the passage of
the bier, which will then pass through the ranks — the troops
leaning upon their arms, reversed, while the bier passes.

When the bier shall have passed, the troops will resume their
position in line, and, reversing their arms, will remain lean-
ing upon them until the ceremonial shall be closed.

The music will now perform a solemn air, after which the
introductory part of this order will be read.

At the end of this a detachment of infantry, appointed for the
purpose, will advance and fire three vollies over the bier.

The troops will then return, the music playing the Presi-"
dent's March, the drums being previously unmuffled.

The uniform companies of militia are invited to join in arms
the volunteer corps. The commanders at particular stations, con-
forming generally to this plan, will make such exceptions as will
accommodate it to situation.

At places where processions of unarmed citizens shall take
place, it is the wish of the Major-General that the military cere-
monial should be united ; and the particular commanders at those

^T. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 391

places are authorized to vary the plan so as to adapt it to the
circumstances.

Brigadier-General McPherson is charged to superintend the
ceremonial in the city of Philadelphia; Major Toussard will at-
tend to Fort Mifflin, and will co-operate with him.

The day of performing the ceremonial at each station, is left
to the particular commander.

Major-General Pinckney will make such further arrangements
within his district as he shall deem expedient.

HAMILTON TO NORTH.

Philadelphia, December 21, 1799.

Sir:

I inclose to you some regulations relative to the funeral ho-
nors to be paid to our departed Chief ■ They will govern gener-
ally in the celebration, although I have not definitely adopted
them.

The ceremonies will be performed in this city on Thursday
next, and I should wish them to be performed in New- York at
the same time. If this is practicable, you will immediately make
the necessary arrangements for the purpose. You will draw the
companies from the Island, leaving only a sufficient number of
men to manage the guard, and concert measures with General
Clarkson for bringing forward the uniform corps of volunteers
and militia to take part in the scene. It will be proper likewise
that the citizens should form part of the procession, and you will
do what shall appear proper in reference to that idea.

The half-hour guns will be fired on the Island, and the
minute guns from the Battery. The time is not sufficient for
preparing a regular oration, but I should be happy if you could
prevail on Doctor Moore, or some other clergyman, to deliver a
discourse suited to the occasion.

You will have musket cartridges prepared and sent to the

392 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 42-

Union Camp, and you will also send there two pieces of artillery,
with cartridges for them. The necessary articles you will apply
for to General Stevens. I shall write to you on Sunday.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

Philadelphia, December, 1799.

Sir:

A complete revision of the articles of war is desirable, as they
require amendment in many particulars. But this would be so
serious a work, that I fear it is not likely to be undertaken with
a prospect of being speedily finished. Waiving the expectation
of such a revision, there are some things which could be done
that would be important improvements. You are aware of the
great obscurity which envelopes the provisions of the existing
articles respecting the power to appoint general courts martial.
On one construction, it is inconveniently narrow, so as to occasion
too great delay, as well in constituting courts, as in giving effect
to their sentences. On another, it would be too much diffused,
and would place in too many hands a trust no less delicate than
important.

To attempt to attain the proper medium by a mere legislative
definition of the characters who may execute the power would be
attended with much difficulty, and might often not meet the new
situations which are apt to occur in the infinite combinations of
military service. The expedient which has appeared to me the
most proper is, to give the President a discretionary authority to
empower other ofiicers than those designated by the articles of
war to appoint general courts martial under such circumstances,
and with such limitations as he shall deem advisable.

The provisions which refer to the President the determina-
tion on sentences affecting life and the dismission of of&cers must,
no doubt, have been frequently attended with perplexity to him,
and are inconvenient to the service. It is scarcely possible for

^T.42.] MILITARY PAPERS.
any but the military commander to appreciate duly the motives
which in such cases demand severity or recommend clemency.
To this an accurate view of all the circumstances of the army in
detail is often necessary. On the other hand, the efficacy of pun-
ishmeiat, when requisite, depends much upon its celerity, and
must be greatly weakened by the unavoidable delay of a resort
to the Executive. These reasons certainly render it expedient
to enable the commanding general of an army to decide upon the
sentences in question as in other cases.

The proper mode of treating the crime of desertion has been,
in most cases, an embarrassing subject. In ours it is particularly
so. The punishment of death, except in time of war, is contrary
to the popular habits of thinking. Whipping is found ineffec-
tual. I have a hope that confinement and labor would prove
more effectual. Believing this punishment to be within the dis-
cretion of courts martial, I encourage its adoption. But as the
matter now stands, the confinement would not exceed the term
of service, and when this is nearly expired, it would be inade-
quate. Some auxiliary provisions are desirable to give a fair
chance to the experiment. It is not, however, my idea to abolish
death, which in some aggravated cases would be proper even in
time of peace, and in time of war ought invariably to ensue. I
incline even to the opinion, that the power of pardoning ought to
be taken away in this case, certainly in every instance of deser-
tion, or an attempt to desert to enemies or traitors.

HAMILTON TO TOUSSARD.

Philadelphia, December 22, 1799.

Sir:

Agreeably to suggestions heretofore made, I request that you
will forthwith commence, in conjunction with Major Hoops, the
preparation of a system of regulations for the exercise of artil-
lery, and for the police service of the corps of artillerists in camp,

394 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

quarters and garrisons. I forbear to enter into a particular de-
tail of the course to be pursued, relying upon the indications of
the subject, and the knowledge and experience of the gentlemen
charged with it.

SMITH TO HAMILTON,

Union Camp, Dec. 24, 1799.

Major-General Hamilton :

I have spent this morning in putting the troops into the gen-
eral exercise, and the different companies will be employed this
afternoon, and to-morrow morning the battalions, and in the
afternoon the whole line.

Our minds are deeply impressed with the circumstance, and
mourn with our country the loss of our dignified chief; but,
though strongly feeling the loss, we mourn not with despond-
ence, as those who have no hope, but we bow with reverence
and solemnity to the dispensations of an overruling Providence,
confident that a people thus raised will, under the care of the
same Providence, have a sufiiciently wise character pointed out
to fill the vacant station. We feel grateful that he has been per-
mitted to remain with us so long, and can, as soldiers, with firm-
ness rely on the wisdom and talents of his successor.

HAMILTON TO COL. SMITH.

New- York, Jan. 3d, 1800.

Sir:

Your different letters of the 23d, 24th and 28th of December
have been delivered to me.

It is always difl&eult in contracts to define the quality of the

^T.43.] MILITARY PAPERS, 395

articles wliicli are to be furnislied, and lience has arisen the si-
lence of which you complain in the contract with the agent for
'New Jersey.

It is, however, implied in the nature of the transaction, that
the articles be good, according to the common acceptation of the
term ; and when this is not the case, the agent violates his en-
gagement, and the United States are at liberty to refuse the arti-
cles, provide them otherwise, and look to him for damages.

When bread is furnished in lieu of flour, it ought to be made
of flour, and not of middlings. The bread should undoubtedly be
made of the article for which it is given as a substitute. The at-
tention which you have paid to this subject has my warm appro-
bation. I shall write to the contractor pointedly respecting it,
and you will make the idea contained in this letter your guide in
your future transactions with him.

I am much pleased with your dispositions, and with the
soldierly conduct of the troops in paying the funeral honors to
our departed chief. I am likewise much pleased with your reso-
lution of erecting a monument as a testimonial of reverence for
his character, and only regret that I cannot make the expense a
public instead of a private charge. No alterations occur to me as
proper to be made in the inscription, except that I would submit
to you, whether a more dignified simplicity would not be given
to it by leaving out the verses ; although they certainly have
merit, yet they appear to me to interfere with that simplicity
which should be studied on such occasions.

It is true that I said nothing with respect to extra expense.
This proceeded from the supposition that no expense would be
necessary independently of the articles furnished by the public ;
and from a conviction, which experience has produced in my
mind, of the extreme caution to be observed with respect to
every object that involves an expenditure of money out of the
regular course.

You will be pleased, however, to send me an account of the
expenses that were incurred. Such of them as were necessarily
incident to the celebration I will press the payment of with the
Secretary of War, and to the rest I will give every attention in
my power.

396 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, January 15th, 1800.

Sir:

The section of the Act of the 3d of March, 1797, to which
you refer in your letter of yesterday, is so obscurely and inde-
finitely worded, that it is impossible to give it a precise, or even
a very reasonable interpretation. On this ground it is that I
have forborne to act upon it in my own case, though command-
ing a separate district.

But while I am at a loss for its true sense, I have thought
that it would be too large a construction to apply it to occasional
and variable commands, like those of officers superintending re-
cruiting rendezvouses or encampments, and so I have answered
when inquiry has been made of me.

I would say that the section applies only to such officers as ex-
ercise commands in their own nature permanently separate and
distinct. Fortified posts are of this description. Perhaps a sepa-
rate territorial district will also give the right to the commanding
general. This would certainly be within the reason of the pro-
vision, which is no doubt an indemnification for extra expense
arising from situation.

Such a construction will comprehend General Pinckney and
myself, and by a liberal extension. General Wilkinson, if a part
of the clause does not more directly embrace him.

But in a matter in which I am personally interested, I
should be unwilling that my opinion should govern. It seems
to me a thing proper for the determination of the Secretary of
War, after conference with the Secretary of the Treasury, and I
would advise you to ask his direction. If you think good you
may communicate my opinion.

iET.43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 397

HAMILTON TO M^HENEY.

New- York, January, 1800.

Sir:

Some of the maxims wliicli obtain with, the officers at the
seat of government, charged with the adjustment of the accounts
of those agents who have to furnish supplies and make disburse-
ments for the mihtarj service, are of a nature to produce much
perplexity and inconvenience. To me they appear mistaken, such
as are to be found nowhere else, and such as must render it im-
practicable to discharge military duties with satisfaction or suc-
cess. It is one thing to have and enforce rules which check im-
provident expenditure, and secure a due accountability. It is a
very different thing to practise upon such as embarrass and re-
tard the settlement of proper charges, as refuse credit for expen-
ditures regularly made, as keep agents out of money to which
they are entitled, as subject to painful animadversions and harass
with unnecessary explanations ofl&cers, who, in the exercise of a
reasonable discretion, direct measures which incur expense.

Specimens of the operation of these rules are to be seen in the
communications herewith transmitted, from E. Stevens, Esq., and
from Majors Toussard and Jackson.

It is perhaps impossible, in military affairs, to devise any
system of regulations so perfect as to embrace all the cases in
which expenditures by the order of particular officers for current
occasions are necessary. Some discretion must be allowed.
This must be the case, even with regard to officers of inferior
rank, detached to remote stations. But it must be frequently and
extensively the case as to a commanding general. In time of war,
nothing could proceed without this discretion upon a large scale.
In time of peace, incidents of a more limited nature constantly
arise, involving expense, which could not be deferred for a spe-
cial resort to the head of the War Department, without real
injury to the service, while the officer, by the necessity of that
resort in matters of minutias, would be placed in a situation ex-
tremely humiliating and irksome.

398 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

Wlien in pursuance of tliis discretion, directions for the dis-
bursement of money are given to a subordinate agent, in cases in
which there has been no special restriction upon him, his charges
ought to be admitted without diflSculty, and the superior officer
made responsible for improper directions in his office or in his
pocket — in both, according to circumstances.

Though it may be necessary to confine the ordinary account-
ing officers to the admission of such items only as are within
established regulations, yet, when others occur, they ought not to
be rejected and thrown back upon the party to oblige him to go
through the tedious and circuitous process of an application to
the head of the department for an extraordinary sanction ; but
there ought to be an interior arrangement of the department for
bringing it in the first instance before the head or some compe-
tent substitute in order to a special direction, and, when what has
been done shall appear proper, the needful sanction should follow.

In the instances in which no regulations have been estab-
lished by the department as a guide to the officers, their acts
ought to be viewed with greater liberality, and the mismanage-
ment which should subject them to blame or embarrassment,
ought to be unequivocal.

It happens that no rules have been prescribed with regard to
extra expenses. Officers are left to exercise their judgments as
occasions require. They do it in good faith, and yet their acts
are not received as authority in favor of agents, who could not
with propriety refuse obedience to them. The fundamental
principle of the military system is thus subverted. Agents for
their own safety are taught to reason about the fitness of com-
pliance with the requisitions made upon them. The service is
clogged. Commanding officers are let down ; and in very trifling
matters are perplexed how to act. This awkward state of things
demands a correction. The dignity and delicacy of officers, as
well as the good of the service, demands it.

iET. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 399

HAMILTON" TO

New-York, Jan. 6, 1800.

Sir:

I have received your letters of the twelfth and eighteenth of
December.

The attention of the Secretary of War has been heretofore
called to the subject of extra expense, and I have urged him to
establish some definitive rules for the government of officers.
This, however, has not yet been done. I have sent the accounts
for repairs to the barracks at Salem, and that for a barge for
Fort Independence, to the Secretary of War.

Directions have been given with respect to a general court-
martial, and an order for the purpose will immediately issue.

A rule for the allowance of quarters was some time ago pro -
posed to the Secretary of War, but it has not yet received his
sanction. In the mean time, where barracks do not exist, the
contractors will provide the officers, aiming at such accommoda-
tion only as is strictly necessary.

The circumstance which you mention respecting the cadets,
has been made the subject of a communication to the Secretary
of War.

Your order to the garrisons was correct as to its general ob-
ject. As far as the medicine chests could have been made by
your artificers, and from the materials furnished by the United
States, there was no impropriety in the thing. But when this
cannot be done, it is improper to incur a specified expense where
recourse can be had to the superintendent of military stores;
that officer being the regular organ of supply. An arrangement
will soon be made for recruiting for the 2d regiment of artil-
lerists at last, and, until this is the case, no measure must be
taken.

400 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

M'HENRY TO HAMILTON.

January 17, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I received yours of the 15th instant this morning, informing
me that urgent business would call you to Albany on Sunday.

I inclose you my report. I think it too probable that the
House of Eepresentatives will determine upon the suspension of
the recruiting service, and doubt the firmness of the Senate.

CIRCULAR.

War Department, 25th January, 1800,

Sir:

The House of Eepresentatives yesterday passed a bill to sus-
pend enlistments for the six additional companies of cavalry and
the twelve regiments of infantry. It is now before the Senate,
and may also receive the sanction of that body. It is therefore
thought advisable that the terms of enlistment be altered so as to
run, " for and during the existing differences between the United
States and the French republic, or for five years, at the option of
the government." You will cause all enlistments under your
superintendence to be made accordingly, till further orders.

The object of the new terms of enlistment is to prevent a
waste of the public money in the event of the bill aforesaid pass-
ing, by securing the men to fill up the regiments on the old
establishment, without additional bounty and clothing.

These instructions are to be observed until you shall receive
others or contrary ones from Major-General Hamilton.

^T.43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 401

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON.

War Department, Feb. 18th, 1800.

Dear Hamilton :

I have received your letter of yesterday, informing me of
your return to New- York. What I suggested might happen has
been realized. The Senate yielded to the supposed momentum
of public opinion, or some other agent as powerful, and passed
the bill from the House of Eepresentatives to suspend further en-
listments for the twelve regiments and six companies of cavalry.
A feeble attempt was made in the Senate to augment (by an
amendment to the bill) the complement of men in the old, to the
war establishment. It failed, although I had been led to believe
it would have succeeded. I inclose my last weak effort for the
military academy and the army. I would not be surprised, how-
ever, at the sessions being closed without any thing being done.
The navy is to ingulf every thing ; and it is certain, should we
give to it all our money, it cannot give us in return adequate
protection.

Both establishments are indispensable — I mean the military
and naval. Some, however, think one of them sufficient, and
that to run down the one is to secure funds for the other. You
find by my report that I have pursued a different course, and
presumed both necessary.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, Feb. 21st, 1800.

Sir:

As the season advances fast when it will be proper to give
effect to the new disposition for the Western army, and as the
arrangement of the officers regimentally is a necessary prelimi-
nary to the operation, I have recurred to your letter of the Idth
E 26

402 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

of November last respecting the arrangement whicli was submit-
ted to you upon the plan of Brigadier-General Wilkinson.

A material object of the arrangement was to prevent, as far
as practicable, the dislocation of officers from their men, who, to
avoid very inconvenient and expensive changes of position, must
be incorporated differently from what they have been. But the
effect of that arrangement upon the relative situation of certain
officers appears on examination greater than I apprehended it to
be, and it is our decisive opinion that the result would operate
injuriously to the service.

In conformity with these ideas I have attempted a new
arrangement, which is now sent, in which the transpositions are
few, and, as I understand the matter, without prejudice to any.
I entreat your speedy consideration of and decision upon it.

HAMILTON TO M'^HENRY.

New-York, Feb. 28th, 1800.

Sir:

I send you the inclosed papers as they came to me from the
paymaster-general. It appears that the account of Captain
Ellery, after having travelled backward and forward between the
offices of the paymaster and accountant, has found no person who
could adjust it. I cannot presume that it has been finally
rejected, because there is no evidence of a definitive application
to you.

If there are any cases in which a commanding general may,
by his orders, authorize the incurring of incidental and casual
expenses for the good of the service, the present is such. It was
impossible for Captain Ellery, with less assistance than he had, to
get through the business of the office, especially in the first
stages of its operations. A competent number of officers to assist,
could not at the time be had without injuring other parts of the
service, nor would this expedient have much diminished the ex-

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 403

pense. I am clearly of opinion that an officer cannot, with pro-
priety, be permanently detached from the peculiar duties of
his station, to be employed in services of a clerical nature, without
an extra compensation proportioned to the extra labor ; and that
as often as the measure is necessary, such a compensation ought
to be made. And I believe that ours is the only service in which
there is not a military chest with a contingent fund applicable
to such cases, or some officer of the staff, competent to the de-
fraying of similar expenses as they occur.

In the return of these papers to me, I discern a fresh instance
of the want of some interior regulation of your department, by
which cases out of the general rules may be decided with due
dispatch. Every day shows me more and more the embarrass-
ments, which, from the same cause, perplex and distress every
military agent who has any thing to do with directing or making
expenditures. A remedy is indispensable to the credit and suc-
cess of the service.

As to the matter immediately in question, it is my opinion,
(as it seems to have been that of the paymaster-general and ac-
countant,) that your special sanction is necessary. It will give
me pleasure to learn that you have thought it right to afford that
sanction.

M'^HENRY TO HAMILTON".

March 1, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Will you give a few hours to the formation of a bill, or bills,
providing, 1st. For the modifications of the two regiments of
artillerists, agreeably to the principles laid down in my report.
2d. For establishing the fundamental school and schools of ar-
tillerists and engineers. 3d. For such other points mentioned
in my report as requiring legislative provisions. 4th. An ex-
planatory clause in the latter bill, defining the officers entitled to
double rations. The two first bills, or bills for the two first named

404 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 43.

objects, I request you to send me as soon as possible. Such
is the pressure of business upon me, that it is out of my power to
do justice to these subjects.

HAMILTON TO GENERAL PINCKNET.

New-York, March 7th, 1800.

Sir:

I now recur to your letters of the 12th December, 9th, 21st,
and 23d of January, and 10th of February.

Instructions for the officers of inspection will form part of the
general system in preparation. In the mean time, they will per-
form the duties which they executed in our war with Great Bri-
tain ; that is, they will, in aid of the respective general offi-
cers, see that all the regulations concerning the tactics and police
of the army are observed ; and for this purpose will assist at
exercises (not however as substitutes for commanding officers,
which was too much the case last war) ; will inspect and muster
the troops according to the forms and instructions which proceed
from the office of the adjutant-general and paymaster-general ;
and they will, within their divisions and brigades, receive and
issue the different general orders, perform the duties relative to
the service of guards, &c., and whatsoever else is connected with
the office of the adjutant-general ; making all returns of the num-
ber and state of the troops. The duties formerly incident to the
brigade-major are absorbed in this office. You are aware that
the deputy inspector-general (section 13 of the act of the 3d of
March, 1799,) is ex officio deputy adjutant-general. You may
either employ Major Campbell in this capacity, or you may re-
commend to me another field-officer. Till the regulations shall
be matured, you will be pleased to direct the duties of the in-
spectors according to this outline.

I have written to West Point for the extra Manuels d'Artil-
lerie which you mention ; if procured, one will be transmitted to
you.

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 405

Captain McClellaii's is now almost complete.

That and Captain Ingersoll's will be sent to you next month,
and they will bring with them a couple of field-pieces mounted
as you desire.

A system for the corps of artillerists is nearly prepared.

I consider the French prisoners as in the charge of the
Naval Department, and the military restricted to the mere
functions of a guard. For this, however, some ammunition is
necessary. I liave written to the Superintendent of Military
Stores to furnish you with a supply equal to four field-pieces
and a regiment of infantry.

You mention your being without a quartermaster. I have
arranged with the Secretary of War to appoint, provisionally
(that is, subject to the ratification of the Quartermaster-General),
a Deputy Quartermaster-General, and Division and Brigade
Quartermasters. The plan is, to name fit characters whom he
approves, conditionally, allowing them, in the mean time, the
prescribed compensations. If you will name to him characters
for your particular district, they will be sanctioned. I expected
that he had communicated the plan to you.

Inclosed is a list of officers, according to a definitive organi-
zation of the four old regiments. All the men of those regi-
ments, in Georgia, South, and North Carolina, and Tennessee,
are to be incorporated into the fourth regiment which is at-
tached to your command. It is presumed, though the returns
are not accurate enough, to ascertain it, that they will be suf-
ficient to form one regiment.

All the men recruited and recruiting lately under the super-
intendence of Major Bradley, now under that of Captain Brooks,
except those in North Carolina, with Captain Eoss Bird, are to
be marched, as soon as the season will conveniently permit, to
Pittsburgh, for their final destination. All the officers of the
first, second, and third regiments within your district are to join
their respective regiments without delay.

I request that you will give the proper orders for carrying
this arrangement into effect. Your situation will enable you to
judge better than me of the most eligible routes.

406 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

Inclosed, also, is the plan which has been settled for the dis-
position of the four regiments of infantry. It was the intention
of General Wilkinson to allot the first regiment to the north and
northwestern posts ; a battalion of the third to the Mississippi
and the southern barrier ; and to the reserved corps the second
regiment and a battalion of the third. These data will serve
you as a guide.

If you find that the fourth regiment will not be complete,
upon your giving me information of the actual or probable de-
ficiency, immediate measures will be taken to supply it by
recruiting ; and, for this purpose, you will reserve at Stanton
such officers as you may think requisite. Captain Gibson is said
to be a very good recruiting officer. I understand that Captain
Bird, at Salisbury, has been furnished with the means of raising
a company — Captain Bird, belonging to the first regiment — he
will join the troops which are to proceed to Pittsburgh ; and
another officer, whom you will indicate, must replace him, and
receive from him the recruiting money and clothing which may
remain unissued. Should the number of men which are to be
incorporated into the fourth, exceed a regiment, the surplus will
remain attached to it, in such manner as you shall direct.

Your construction of the law, as to the allowance to the
Division Inspector, is right. Nor is there any prospect of an
increase of the compensation. You recollect that another Brig-
ade Inspector may be appointed within your command, who
may be charged with the southern extremity. This may abridge,
in some degree, the travelling.

I wait for the recommendation of a fit character from you.

The idea of a rule for the extra travelling expenses of the
aids of a general officer, distinct and diiferent from that respect-
ing the general, cannot but work inconveniently. I have ex-
pressed my opinion to this effect to the Secretary of War, who, I
hope, will change this part of his plan.

With regard to some of the objects you particularize, as
boat-hire, express-hire, postage, and all of a similar kind relating to
the service, and not to the mere personal accommodation of the
officer, I consider them as to be at the expense of the public, and

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 407

generally to be defrayed by tlie person charged witb disbursements
for the Quartermaster's department. Marques and tents, as well
as quarters and barracks, are furnished by the public ; articles
of camp equipage by the officer himself It is, however, usual
for him to draw camp-kettles and canteens, if he desires it.

The subject of double rations has perplexed me, as well as
yourself. It is difficult to find in the law its proper meaning.
It is one of the cases in which some degree of executive arbitra-
tion should be exercised. It has been matter of more than one
communication from me to the Secretary of War. I have again
recently called his attention to it.

I agree with you as to the employment of the troops, and
shall second your views in this respect.

THE STEP.

■ . 1800.

Tacticians agree that a proper regulation of the length and
speed of the step is of primary importance in a system of tactics-

Upon this depends essentially the exactness of all evolutions,
the attainment of the best results with the least inconvenience to
the soldier. Yet, in the theories of military writers, and in the
establishments of military nations, there is great diversity in this
important article. For example : while our step is two feet
English, that of France (and it is believed of Russia) is two feet
French, or about twenty-six inches English ; that of Great Britain
two feet six inches English. There is also some, though less
diffisrence, as to the velocity of the step ; that of France being
76, 100 and 120 in a minute, that of Grreat Britain, 75, 108, and
120 in a minute.

This diversity is a reason against adopting implicitly any
foreign standard, and a motive to investigation of the principles
on which the step ought to be predicated. It is desirable, if pos-
sible, to find a standard in nature.

408 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 43.

As to length, tlie step ought to be accommodated to men of
the smaller sizes. A tall man can abridge easier than a short
man extend. And yet, perhaps neither extreme ought to govern ;
a short man may, by habit, somewhat lengthen his usual step
without fatigue, while a tall man may be too much constrained,
if obliged to contract his step to the measure of a very short man.
The man of middle stature may be the proper criterion, or per-
haps the average of a number of men of different sizes marching
together, may furnish a still better rule. In such case, a kind of
compromise naturally takes place, by the mutual effort of all to
move in unison.

But to arrive at a full result, it is necessary that the experi-
ments should be multiplied, should be by individuals of different
sizes, and by bodies of different numbers from few to many, and
especially that they should be on different sorts of ground, rough
as well as smooth, unequal as well as plain. By this diversifica-
tion of the experiments, it may be possible to discover- some
medium which, being adopted as a standard, and made habitual
to the troops, will best accommodate itself to the variety of cir-
cumstances which occur.

It is a fact which, in this investigation, demands particular
attention, that the length of the step naturally increases with its
speed or velocity. In a slow movement, the body is nearly per-
pendicular, and the leg kept back ; in a rapid one, the body is
impelled forward, and with it the leg, which, without effort, takes
a greater distance in this than in the former case.

Hence a question whether the length of the step ought not to
be proportioned to the speed, and whether, instead of that uni-
formity which seems to have been preferred, it ought not to be
less in the slower and greater in the quicker steps. It is evident,
that by lengthening the step with the speed, a greater quantity
of ground will be passed over in a given time, and perhaps with
less fatigue, from the men being less constrained.

The varieties in the speed of the step demand careful exami-
nation. A slow, cadenced, majestic step has been adopted, espe-
cially in reference to manoeuvres of parade and the march in line.
From 75 to 80 in a minute have been latterly deemed an eligible

^T.43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 409

standard. For occasions wliicli require greater celerity, about
100 in a minute has been adopted, to be increased in particular
cases to 120,

These questions arise. Are all these varieties desirable as
fundamental rules? If not, what ought to be substituted? Is
the slowest of these steps ever useful in the actual service of the
field ? If not, ought it to obtain for any, and for what collateral
reasons ? To what kind of movements is each variety applica-
ble ? In fine, what ought to be established as to the speed of
the step ?

Respect for the institutions of nations who have arrived at
considerable perfection in the art of war, is a dictate of good
sense ; but when we consider the influence of the spirit of imita-
tion, and how liable men habituated to routine are to be tram-
melled by that to which they have been accustomed, we shall find
good reason not to follow those institutions implicitly. In the
particular affair of the length and speed of the step, there is room
to suspect that principles have not been sufiiciently consulted,
and that real improvements may be made. This, however, is to
be carefully examined, with a temper no less remote from the
love of innovation than from a spirit of blind deference to authority
and precedent.

HAMILTON TO M<=HENRY.

New-York, March 21st, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Though, from repeated reflection and action upon the subject,
my opinion was well made up when I received your letter of the
19th, yet I thought it proper once more to review the matter be-
fore I complied with your request. The principle of the doctrine
advanced by the accountant will go much farther than the posi-
tion which he now avows, namely, "that no authority short of
Congress can make allowances to an officer beyond the emolu-
ments fixed to his ofl&ce by law." It will go the length of deny-

410 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

ing to the Executive in all its branches, any discretion not con-
firmed b}' some special law, to call forth and compensate any
services, not merely of officers, but of any other persons, which
are not indicated and provided for by particular statutes.

It will interdict the employment and compensation of a citi-
zen as a writer, or even as an express^ no less than that of an
ofiicer, for either purpose. The foundation of the doctrine must
be, that there is no power in the Executive to subject the public
to expense in any case not specially provided for by law. What
substantial difference can there be between employing a private
citizen for some contingent service, and paying him for it, and
employing an ofiicer for something not within the sphere of his
official duty^ and compensating him for it ? I discover none in
the theory ; for as to such extra service he is a private citizen,
and I know no law that declares a distinction.

It is certain that in the course of the discharge of its trusts,
there will occur numerous instances in which the public service
must stagnate, or the Executive must employ and compensate
agents not contemplated by special laws.

It follows, in my opinion, that he must have an inherent
right to do it, under these restrictions, that it ought to be relative
to some object confided to his agency by the constitution, or by
the laws, and that no money ought actually to be paid, for which
there is not an appropriation by statute, either with particular
reference to the purpose, or under the general denomination of
contingencies. This is, in my opinion, a right necessarily im-
plied ; nor do I see why the Executive may not claim the exer-
cise of implied powers, as well as the Legislative. In a word,
there is no public function which does not include the exercise
of implied, as well as express authority.

This reasoning, as far as I know, is consonant with the prac-
tice of every government, and with that of ours, as well under
the confederation, as under the present constitution. If my
memory deceive me not, there was an act of Congress prohibit-
ing the union of two ofiices in the same person, with distinct com-
pensations. Yet this did not hinder the allowance of special
compensations to ofiicers for special and extra service. Still less

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 411

did it hinder the indemnification for extra expenses of an officer
in peculiar situations. Such compensations and indemnifications
were, I believe, made by the executive boards, under the former
government. Indeed, I am unusually mistaken, if the uniform
practice of the Treasurj;^ and War Departments under this gov-
ernment, does not recognize the rule for which I contend, and
reject that which is advanced by the accountant. This practice,
too, has been right. A different one will be found in experience
a fatal clog on the wheels of public business. The administra-
tion at large is interested in discountenancing it, and that spirit
of cavil in the accountant, on which it is founded, and which my
observations in my present station have convinced me is ruinous
to the military department of the government. There was not
an appropriation law passed, while I was at the head of the Trea-
sury, which did not sanction my principle. There was always,
I believe, a sum for the contingencies of the War Department.

The power to incur charges which involve expense, not fall-
ing under any specific head, presupposes the right to employ
agents, and engage services not particularly contemplated by
law. I always viewed such appropriations as a virtual sanction
of the right, including in them a warranty, if necessary, to exer-
cise the power. Such too was the practical construction.

Nobody knows better the truth in this respect than Mr. Wol-
cott. Nobody ought more decidedly to frown upon the danger-
ous metaphysics of Mr. Simmons. The recognition of his doc-
trine will be a fatal precedent in the administration. It will be
a palsy, destructive of all energy in the government. Consider-
ing the dispositions which prevail among certain men, in a cer-
tain body, there ought to be more than a common anxiety not
to establish such a fetter upon executive operations.
Yours, &c.

412 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

COL, SMITH TO HAMILTON,

Union Brigade, March 25th, 1800.

Major General Hamilton :

Sir, — I have communicated to Colonel Ogden tlie arrange-
ments I have made relative to the experiments I am making on
the proper measure of the paces, as stated in your letter of the
18th, to whom, at present, I beg leave generally to refer you, I
have made arrangements to procure the necessary pendulums to
correctly mark the cadence of the common 75 — quick 108 — and
wheeling time 120 per minute, I must confess, I am attached to
the English time ; I know it to be founded on the most approved
Prussian system, and is the basis of those highly improved evo-
lutions published by Colonel Dundas, on which the British tactic
is now founded, and which is elevating the British army to a
point of reputation which they have so long stood in need of,

I find that the British pace gives 65 i yards per minute, which
in 8 minutes covers 522 1 yards — that our pace per minute gives
but 50 yards per minute, in 8 minutes covers 400 yards ; of
course the advantage gained in 8 minutes is 122 1 yards.

If therefore we can introduce and accustom our troops to
the Prussian or British step, I think there can be no hesitation
which to choose. I will however do myself the honor of report-
ing the result of experiments about to be made, I should wish
your permission to try the steps when acquired, — upon British
or Prussian principles of tactics, extracts from which and some
notes personally made, I am possessed of, but feel a difiidence on
entering on these experiments, without your permission being
previously obtained.

I have the honor to be with great respect — Sir, your most
obedient humble servant.

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 413

ORGANIZATIOlSr.

1800.

In conformity with the establishment by law, and until a de-
finitive arrangement shall be prescribed by authority of the Pre-
sident of the United States, the following formation and disposi-
tion of a regiment of infantry are to be observed —

A regiment will consist of battalions, divisions, companies,
platoons, sections and squads.

A battalion is composed of five companies — a division will
comprehend two companies. Each company will be divided into
two platoons — each platoon into two sections — each section into
two squads. A battalion will consequently consist of two divi-
sions and a flank company ; and as often as two flank companies
shall be united, they will form a division.

When the companies shall be completed to the war establish-
ment each will be formed upon three ranks ; on the present es-
tablishment each will be formed upon two ranks, in order that it
may occupy in each class the same extent. Each company shall
be numbered in the regiment from one to ten according to the
relative rank of the several captains, and shall be thus distribut-
ed. The battalion on the right shall consist of the first, third,
fifth, seventh, and ninth companies. That on the left of the 2d
4th, 6th, 8th, and 10th companies. The station of each company
will be from right to left, in the former No. 1 , 3, 7, 5, 9. In the
latter No. 4, 8, 6, 10, 2. No. 1 and 2 will represent the flank
companies, which it is expected here after will consist of select
persons.

The third and seventh companies will form a division to be
called first division^ the fifth and ninth another to be called second
division^ the fourth and eighth another to be called third division,
the sixth and tenth another to be called fourth division. "When
the two flank companies * form a division it will be called " flank
division."

* In forming it the company No. 2. will place itself on the left of No. 1.

414 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

The platoons shall be numbered from right to left in succession,
from 1 to 20, and shall be denominated in the same order, first pla-
toon^ second platoon^ &c. The sections of each platoon shall be de-
nominated right and left, and when necessary shall be distinguish-
ed by the addition of the number of the platoon as " right section
of the first platoon," "left section of the second platoon," &c.

In the order of battle the ofl&cers and non-commissioned offi-
cers shall be stationed as follows. Each captain shall be on the
right of the right platoon of his company, covered by a sergeant.
The first lieutenant on the right of the left platoon of his com.
pany, covered also by a sergeant. The second lieutenant four
paces behind the centre of the company, to be denominated a
" rear officer." The first sergeant two paces behind the left of the
right platoon. The second sergeant two paces behind the left of
the left platoon. The corporals on the flanks of the two platoons
in the front rank. The second lieutenant of the company which
is on the left of each battalion, shall be on the left of that com-
pany covered by the second sergeant.

The colonel shall be at twenty-eight paces behind the line
of " rear officers," and opposite the centre of the interval between
the two battalions. The first major, at twenty paces behind the
same line of rear ofl&cers, and opposite the centre of the "bat-
talion of the right," in a line with the standard of that battalion.
The second major, in a similar position relatively to the "bat-
talion of the left." The adjutant, sixteen paces in front of the
colonel. The sergeant-major of each battalion, twelve paces in
front of his major. The paymaster and quartermaster are un-
derstood to be detached on other duties. They may, however,
in special cases, at the discretion of the colonel, be employed
in the service of the line, when he will assign them their
stations.

In the formation for reviews of parade, the colonel will be
twenty paces in advance of the centre of his regiment, counting
from the front rank ; each major, fourteen paces in advance of
the centre of his battalion, counting in like manner in a line
with its colors. If the regiment shall form only one battalion,
the colonel will preserve the same relative station, and the

Mt. 43.]

MILITARY PAPERS. 415

majors the same distance, but opposite tlie right and left of the
battalion.

HAMILTON TO PINCKNEY.

New-York, March 26, 1800.

Sir:

Inclosed is a plan of the formation of a regiment for exercise
or battle, of which I request your mature consideration, and that
you will [favor] me as early as may be [with] the result of your
reflections. The more careful and particular your criticism, the
more [will it oblige me.]

NORTH TO HAMILTON.

March 27th, 1800.

Sir:

I have the honor to present herewith, regulations for con-
ducting military funerals and executions ; for the disposal of the
effects of those who die or are killed in the service. They are,
with some alterations and additions which appeared to me proper,
extracted from Reed and Symes, and though not of great conse-
quence, are necessary to make a whole. The plan for the ser-
vice of the guards, which is also presented, is in part taken from
the regulations of Baron Steuben, and in part formed on a prin-
ciple which I believe has not heretofore been adopted, and
which, for this reason, I offer with great diffidence. The guards
and detachments, instead of being taken promiscuously from the
different companies of a regiment, or the different regiments of
an army, are, by the plan accompanying this, to consist of entire
squads, sections, platoons, &c. So that the officers and the men
attached to their particular command, may on all occasions re-

416 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

main together. I need not say to you, sir, that the separating
officers from their men, has been, and will always be, fraught
with bad consequences. The officer, to a certain degree, gets rid
of his responsibility for their clothing, arms, and discipline ; and
the men under the command of a stranger have less to hope
from a strict performance of their duty, or to fear from its ne-
glect. The alteration with respect to the camp guards, by per-
mitting them to remain in the tents which, as a platoon or section,
they occupied previous to their mounting, will, in my opinion, be
attended with no inconveniences to the service, and with much
convenience to the officers and men ; the camp and quarter
guard being thrown together under the command of a commis-
sioned officer, and a tent or hut appropriated for prisoners where
they cannot mix with the guard, and will feel that they are con-
fined, will, I should suppose, be attended with good effects.

The continual attention necessary to the common and daily
duties of my office, is offered in excuse for having done so little in
the extra business committed to me, and I hope will be accepted.

HAMILTON TO OGDEN.

New-York, April 15th, 1800.

Sir:

In compliance with your request, I proceed to draw an out-
line of the duties which, as Deputy Quarter-General of the troops
within my immediate command, you will have to perform.

The duties of the department of Quartermaster-General, as
they have been understood in our service, are subdivided into
two principal branches, one of which has been denominated
military, the other civil ; the first relating to the position and
movements of an army, the other to its supply.

The first branch embraces chiefly the choice and distribution
of ground for the quartering and encampment of troops, whether
with a view to an enemy or to the exercise and accommodation

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 417

of the troops, and the disposition of them in quarters, or camp,
according to the established order of battle. Second, the regu-
lation of marches as to routes, halting-grounds, transportation,
and the care and defence of baggage and stores. In the execu-
tion of this branch, a knowledge of the country, which is at any
time the scene of operation, is indispensable. For this purpose
good maps are to be procured or made. These are to serve for
the information of the commanding general, as well as for that
of the chief of the quartermaster's department. When a position
is to be taken, or has been taken, the surrounding country, as
well as the immediate ground, is to be carefully reconnoitred,
with the approaches and outlets from it. A careful eye must be
had to all intermediate grounds best fitted for posts, either to
attack or defend ; to the facilities for, or difficulties of opening
new routes ; to all the circumstances which may serve as obsta-
cles against the attack of an enemy, or as aids in offending or
annoying him. Maps are to be made which shall present the
military points, mountains, morasses, defiles, and the other cir-
cumstances above attended to.

The second branch embraces chiefly the providing of quarters,,
grounds for encampments, the means of transportation by land
or water, tents and articles of camp equipage, forage, fuel, straw
and stationery, and the superintendence of the distribution and
issuing of these articles. The business of guides and expresses
is also an appendage of this department, and sometimes the
management of intelligence is confided to it.

It is to be understood that, according to our present system,
there are two ofiicers at the seat of government — a purveyor of
supplies, and superintendent of military stores.

Of the former (who is Tench Francis, Esquire) it is the duty,
under the direction of the Secretary of War, to procure all sup-
plies for the army which are not of necessity to be procured in
the field or at particular military stations.

Of the latter (who is Samuel Hodgson, Esquire) it is the duty
to receive and cause to be issued all military supplies ; to keep
accounts of the issues ; and to call to account all who are charged
with making them in detail.
E 27

418 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43'

The Department of War has likewise certain agents at particu-
lar places, who execute occasional services, and in many instances
have been employed to procure and to furnish supplies. — Of these
agents the following are known to me.

E. Stevens, Esquire, New- York ; Jona. Jackson, Massachusetts ;
Archibald Creary, Rhode Island ; Jacob Sheaffe, New Hampshire ;
Jedh. Huntington, Connecticut; Elijah Paine, Vermont; Jas.
.McRea, North Carolina ; Edward Carrington, Virginia.

You are informed that John Wilkins, Esquire, is quartermaster-
general, and is particularly attached to the western army under
General Wilkinson ; James Miller, Esquire, is his assistant at the
seat of government, and the person there with whom you are
ordinarily to correspond.

There are also, as you know, contractors at different places,
who besides the business of supplying provisions, have been and
in part still are charged with procuring articles requisite in the
quartermaster's department, for which they are allowed a com-
mission.

Of the aid of the different description of persons you must
avail yourself in the execution of your office.

It is my wish that the actual procuring of supplies, and espe-
cially the disbursements of money for them, should be separated
from the quartermaster-general and his immediate assistants ; and
that his province should be to direct what is to be procured rela-
tively to the objects of his department, in addition to the articles
which are provided and furnished through the officers at the seat
of government ; and to superintend the persons who procure the
objects and make the expenditure. It seems to me more advisa-
ble that he should direct and watch over those who are to provide
and pay, than that he should be charged with this species of
service and responsibility. This separation will enable him to
attend better to his military duties— will make him a check
rather than an agent in money transactions, and will save him
from the jealousy and clamor inseparable from those who are
intrusted with them.

It will be a part of your duty to make from time to time re-
ports and estimates of articles which are necessary to be provided

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 419

in your department, in order that after they shall have been exa-
mined by me, they may be submitted to the Secretary of War, or
other proper officer at the seat of government.

You are to take care that all quartermasters' articles required
for the troops under my immediate command are duly furnished
upon proper returns. You are also to see that all general
orders, as it respects the officers of your department, are punctually
executed.

When you deem it necessary you may address yourself imme-
diately to the Secretary of War upon matters within the sphere
of your office.

N". KICE TO HAMILTON.

Oxford, April 19th, 1800.

Sir:

There can be no doubt but that the natural gait of the man
ought to be the measure of the pace, uncontrolled by any habit ;
but each man left to pursue his own, would destroy the unifor-
mity of movement absolutely necessary in great bodies — to pro-
duce which we ought to adopt one as a standard. That of the
man of medium height, would be most eligible.

The length of a pace is dependent on the time on which a
man moves — therefore the same measure cannot be preserved in
the common and quick time ; for I have found by the experiments
I have made, that we step further in quick than in slow time.
We must first determine the velocity of the pace ; its dimensions
then will be easily found. I have made numerous experiments
— I selected soldiers of 6 feet, 5 feet 10 inches, of 5 feet 8 inches,
and of 5 feet 6 inches height ; these I caused to march uncon-
trolled, repeatedly, a distance of five hundred feet, and found the
average length of the step, by the men of 6 feet, to be 30 i in-
ches and 93 in a minute — those of 6 feet 10 inches, to be 31
inches and 95 in a minute — those of 5 feet 8 inches, were 31

•

420 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

inches also and 98 in a minute — in the fonrth class the average
was 30| inches and 99 in a minute. I was led to expect greater
diiference in the length of the step between the men of the 1st
and 4th class — but the increased velocity of the pace by the short
men, must have been the cause, and convinced me, that the
natural dimension of the step was dependent upon the time in
which it was taken. I found that the average length of the pace
of the four classes was 30f inches, and that there were 96 in a
minute. Although the men were cautioned to move in their
natural gait, I am convinced their pace was considerably quick-
ened, for, on regulating their step afterwards by music, and
reducing it to our common time, it did not exceed 26 inches.

As all movements should be calculated for real service rather
than show, the greater velocity with which a body of men are
moved, the better, provided a perfect uniformity of stepping can
be preserved, for if that is once lost in a quick movement, dis-
order and confusion will be likely to ensue. I have sometimes
thought that our quick time is too rapid a movement for a large
body of men. But as it is seldom requisite to be done with an
extensive front, (and as by our system all great movements are
in column, either open or closed, the formation or display of
which is done by wheelings with small points, or by marching
in files, in neither of which movements can great confusion en-
sue by want of perfect uniformity of step,) the greater the
rapidity with which those movements are made the better ; and
therefore our measure of 120 in a minute is the time in which
they ought to be performed.

If attention is to be paid to show and parade, perhaps our
common time is the best calculated therefor ; it is neither so
slow as to throw the man off his balance, or make him preserve
it with difficulty, as was the slow step used formerly by the
British — nor yet so quick as not to enable him to preserve grace
in the attitude of his body and time to preserve his balance by
placing his foot horizontally on the ground, and I think is the
best time for moving an extensive line to the front. From the
small experience I have had, I cannot believe that any interme-
diate time of movement, between our common and quick step is

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 421

necessary, or can be of great utility. It would rather tend to
perplex and prevent the soldier from arriving to perfection in
either movement, I will continue my inquiries and experiments,
and make such observations as shall result therefrom.

GENERAL PUSTCKNEY TO HAMILTON.

Cantonment at Harper's Ferry, April 25th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

Your two favors of the 26th of March, and your favor of the
10th of April, all arrived by the last post. The position of your
field-officers, in your order of battle, I think excellent. The
position of the companies I think very judicious ; as, if all the
officers are present, it will give the four senior captains the com-
mand of divisions, and keep the officers attached to their own
companies. The only inconvenience attending it is, when a
captain of the first, third, second, or fourth company is absent,
the division will be commanded by a lieutenant, while a captain
of one of the other companies will only have the command of a
company in that division, and be in some measure subject, when-
ever the firing and manoeuvring are by divisions, to the com.
mand of a subaltern. This happens with respect to the seventh
and eighth platoons of Steuben ; but no good reason can be as-
signed for it in his order ; whereas, in j^ours, the important
benefit which must arise from having officers attached to men
they best know, carries conviction to every mind. This ad-
vantage must, however, in a small degree, be dispensed with, to
enable you to manoeuvre to advantage ; and, for the purpose of
exercise or battle, I deem it essentially necessary to equalize
your companies. You never will manoeuvre well Avithout it,
not even if you introduce the English mode of wheeling back-
wards from a halt, to preserve your pivot flank. This principle

422 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

of equalization the great king of Prussia deemed so essential,
that I remember to have read, in one of his battles in the seven
years' war, that after one of his wings had been considerably
thinned, and repulsed in a farious onset, he took the advantage
of a mountain and wood to equalize his platoons before he re-
newed the attack. You have been silent on this point in the
order of battle you have favored me with. In the firings, the
commanders of platoons, in the French service, step to the
centre of the rear of their respective platoons, and give the word
from thence.

With regard to the step : I have been making many experi-
ments on it. I find men stepping a natural step, in general
exceed two feet English when they march 75 steps in a
minute; when they march faster, say 100 or 120 steps in a
minute. The excess above two feet is in proportion to the
velocity. This would suggest the propriety of the steps being
lengthened, with change of measure ; however, this idea, which
first presented itself to Brigadier-General Washington, I have
not sufiiciently matured, and throw it out now to you for trial.
In stepping only two feet, with the quick time, I find the men
always progress with a bent knee, which is not a natural gait.

HAMILTON TO DE NOAILLES.

New- York, May 5th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I observe that the French regulations, as well as those of
several other countries, adopt a fixed measure for the pace (pas),
without regard to the velocity, which, in the French code, is
tvjo feet French. As the measures differ in different European
establishments, I have been causing experiments to be made, in
order to discover, if practicable, a standard in nature relatively
to the medium size of a man. In the course of these experi-

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 423

ments it appears, that tliouga two feet is about the natural
length of the cadenced step — say 75 in a minute — of a body of
men, yet they naturally increase the length of the step with the
velocity.

This has led me to some new reflections on the point; and as
I respect European precedents, in a science which has been so
much studied and practised, I am desirous of knowing what
reasoning has led to the adopting of a determinate length for all
the direct steps, without regard to the velocity — that is to say,
the same for the quick and quickest.

Nobody can better enlighten me on this subject than your-
self, and I rely on your friendly disposition, I therefore do not
hesitate to request that you will, as soon as may be, let me hear
from you on the point, and as particularly as may be con-
venient.

HAMILTON TO jf HENRY,

New-York, May 5th, 1800.

Sir:

I have the honor to transmit you the copy of a letter of the
4th instant, from Colonel Taylor, It presents a picture, of which
the similitude has too frequently come under my observation,

I must be permitted to observe that nothing can be more in-
jurious to the service, than that pecuniary embarrassment should
be occasioned to officers in reference to services duly performed
and expenditures regularly made, by reason either of the want
of a proper distribution and definition of the duties of the re-
spective officers of the War Department, or by misapprehensions
among themselves as to the boundaries of their powers and
duties. It presents an image of defect of system calculated to
inspire sentiments very difierent from those of confidence and
respect, and it is attended with serious inconveniences to officers,
who are kept out of compensations and reimbursements very es-
sential to their accommodation. Besides, that it interferes with

424 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

the settlement of their accounts in every case in which for want
of funds applicable to the special objects, there has been neces-
sity for the temporary transfer of funds which had other desti-
nation.

The call upon the officers to refund, as mentioned by Colonel
Taylor, is a violent measure. It is in most instances impracti-
cable for them to comply, and surely an anterior arrangement
in the modes of accounting ought to have obviated such a requi-
sition. It is in my knowledge, as formerly a member of the ad-
ministration, that there was often a necessity for accommoda-
tions of this kind, and that they were practised ; nor can the
public business proceed without them.

It is a delicate matter, in my station, to animadvert upon the
conduct of officers in the civil departments of government. Yet
there are occasions in which it is proper to waive a scruple of
this sort, and to state the tendency of their conduct towards the
service.

Yielding to a sense of duty. I do not hesitate to say, that in
my opinion the accountant displays very often a spirit, Avhich, if
not designed, certainly tends to injure the service, and sour and
dissatisfy all who are parts of or connected with the army.

I know that officer to be capable, diligent, and honest, but
he is certainly not as accommodating as the complicated urgen-
cies of military service require ; and he rigidly adheres to rules,
which, if universally applied, are incompatible with practice.

This disposition must either be corrected or our military
affiairs must always be in disorder. The public will be burthen-
ed with a large additional expense as an indemnification for the
evils of the accountant's rigor, and general dissatisfaction will
prevail.

The paymaster-general is charged by law with certain defi-
nite objects ; the pay, arrears of pay, subsistence and forage of
the troops. These are regulated by law, and involve the exer-
cise of little or no discretion. The accountant has a more exten-
sive authority, embracing, among other things, the expenses of
'the recruiting service, and all incidental and contingent expenses
-of the department.

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 425

Where cases occur relatively to his duties, which are either
within the specific provisions of the laws, or within the establish-
ed regulations of the head of the department, founded upon the
general provisions of the laws, or the nature of his office, the
accountant is to adjust them of course. Where matters are pre-
sented, not comprehended in the one or the other, and which
must be governed by discretion, these are to be reported by him
to the Secretary of War for his instruction, and in these cases
the accountant is to obey that instruction, leaving the responsi-
bility to rest upon the superior.

I premise this view of the scheme of the department, as pre-
liminary to a proposition which I shall submit.

It seems to me that it will be expedient to extend the func-
tions of the paymaster-general and his subordinates to some ob-
jects not now understood to come within their sphere — namely,
1st. Their travelling expenses when detached, and extra compen-
sations to ofl&cers for extra services. 2d. The expenses of
apprehending deserters. 3d. Postage and stationery, when
paid for by officers of the line ; and lastly, the affi^ir of bounty
money, and the contingent expenses of the recruiting service.

In order to defray such expenses in the first instance, let the
regimental paymasters and persons acting as such, be furnished
with small sums as a fund for contingencies; out of this fund let
them defray those expenses, and let the accounts be settled pro-
visionally by the paymaster-general, under the eventual control
of the accountant.

For this purpose, it ought to be understood, that if in any
instance an officer receives more than he ought to have, it shall
be a charge against his pay, but shall be no obstacle to the set-
tlement of the accounts of the paymasters, except where they
may be chargeable with wilful default, or gross carelessness.

The accounts for these supernumerary objects may be ren-
dered and settled distinctly from those provided for by law ; and
perhaps an additional compensation may be made to the paymas-
ter-general.

This plan, I think, would remove some obstacles, and give
some facilities which would be convenient to the service. But

426 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 43.

whatever may be the plan pursued, it is of primary importance
that some arrangement shall be devised, which shall provide for
a speedy adjustment of similar matters, and prevent the disgust-
ing altercations and delays which now continually ensue. I en-
treat your prompt and careful attention to the subject, and that
you will immediately give in the particular case such orders as
will remove the difficulty represented by Colonel Taylor.

HAMILTON TO COLONEL SMITH.

New-York, May 8th, 1800.

Sir:

I duly received your letter of the 2d of April, which has lain
by from the pressure of more urgent business. In breaking si-
lence now, I wish only to prevent misapprehension, as it may
influence future cases.

I am persuaded in what you did you were actuated by a very
praiseworthy zeal, and I perceive that there were circumstances
from which you were led to infer a larger discretion than it was
my intention to imply. Yet I ought in candor to observe, that
those circumstances were designed by me, essentially, to enable
you *to exert your own immediate agency, without previous
resort to me, as to objects within the purview and spirit of the
general directions, and that several of the items in question do
not appear to me to answer this description.

This must not be received as a censure, but as explanation to
guide in future. When an officer bona fide misconstrues an in-
struction, and acts with a sincere view to the good of the service,
I should with reluctance blame, though I should always think it
proper to tell him frankly, that a misconstruction had happened,
as a caution for other occasions.

I do not understand that any impediment to the settlement
of the accounts exists, and if not, no further step on my part is
necessary.

.ET.43.J MILITARY PAPERS. 427

HAMILTON TO DE NOAILLES.

New-York, May 13th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I find by your reply to my inquiry, that I did not convey my
meaning to you with sufficient perspicuity.

I was aware that in the French system the length of the pace
in the direct step is uniform, without regard to the velocity ; but
I was desirous of knowing what mode of reasoning may have
produced this uniformity, notwithstanding the fact that the
length of the step naturally increases with the velocity.

It would seem upon principles better to proportion the pace
to the velocity ; that is, to have one length for the ordinary sl£p,
another for the route step, and perhaps (but this I doubt) a third
for the charge step.

The effect of restraining the quick step to the measure of the
shio step, is to make a greater quantity of effort necessary to
attain a given distance, and thereby to render marches more
fatiguing than they ought to be.

Having now explained myself, I shall be obliged by your
further thoughts on the matter.

HAMILTON TO GENERAL PINCKNEY.

New-York, May 14th, 1800.

Sir:

I was in due time favored with your letter of the 25th April.

I am glad that our ideas coincide as to the formation of a
regiment for exercise and battle.

It is a part of the plan, (though the extract sent you did not
go so far as to show it,) that the companies for those purposes
shall always be equalized. This is no doubt essential. The in-
convenience of occasionally separating the men from their officers

428 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 43.

must be submitted to for the overbalancing advantages of the
equalization.

In primary formations, we must of necessity contemplate the
corps as complete, and prescribe what a sound theory requires on
that supposition ; taking care to provide for casualties by means
agreeing with the general principle. With the latter view " the
places of officers and non-commissioned officers who may be
wanting or absent are to be supplied by those next in grade, and
when necessary in the formation for exercise or battle, the com-
mandant of a regiment may assign officers of one company to
another company." The application of this provision will require
that the junior of the two captains shall command the division
when the senior is absent, in every case in which the division
acts collectively. An occasional change of position for this pur-
pose will not be difficult.

What would you think of varying the plan of formation by
placing the captain in the rear of the centre of his company,
stationing the first lieutenant on the right of the right platoon,
the second on the right of the left platoon ?

The arguments for such a disposition are, that when in action
in line, the captain will be in the best situation to attend to his
whole company, to extend his influences over the whole, and to
keep every part at its post. In movements which may require
a different position, a correspondent change can be made.

This idea has some attractions for me, though I have not as
yet embraced it even provisionally. And you will understand
that no part of my plan is definitively adopted. It is all sub
judice — open to revisal and correction.

The fact which you notice, that the length of the step in-
creases with the velocity, is confirmed by other experiments
which I had caused to be made ; and, when observed, is seen to
depend on a very obvious reason. This fact at present inclines
me' to vary the length of the step in proportion to velocity — at
least, to have two diffijrent standards. It is certain that the con-
trary principle must augment the quantity of exertion requisite
to attain a given distance, and tend to render marches more slow
and more fatiguing.

.Et. 42.] MILITARY PAPERS. 429

I doubt not that tlie prudent change you have made in the
situation of your troops will be attended with salutary effects.
With great consideration and esteem,

I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO i^HENEY.

New-York, May 19th, 1800.

Sir:

I have transmitted to the Paymaster-General an abstract of
the numbers of the twelve additional regiments, and have urged
him to make an estimate of the sums which will be due, in-
cluding the three months' extra pay, and without delay to remit
adequate funds.

I beg you to send for him, and to second by your authority
the instruction I have given.

I am thus particular, because without great exertion the
troops cannot be paid up before the time fixed for their dis-
charge ; and in my opinion it is essential that this should be
done. Public clamor, infinite disgust in the officers and men,
possibly great irregularities on the routes homeward, and cer-
tainly additional obstacles in obtaining men on future occasions,
would attend the disbanding without full satisfaction.

Hence I press for every possible exertion to be prepared for
the time which has been assigned ; and hence, also, I think it
proper to say, that should circumstances prevent the payment of
their dues to the troops by that time, I shall consider it as con-
sistent with the orders I have received, no less than with the
interest and honor of the government, to defer the disbanding
till the payment shall have been received, unless I have fresh
and precise instructions to the contrary.

With great respect, &c.

430 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

ADAMS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 22d, 1800.

Sir:

I inclose a copy of a letter received tbis morning from
Colonel Smitli. I am at present at a loss to judge of it. "Will
you be so kind, without favor or affection, to give me your can-
did opinion of it — whether his request can be granted, in the
•whole or in part, without injustice to other officers, and whether
it is consistent with the military ideas ? I pray your answer as
soon as possible.

I am, Sir,

With great esteem,

Your most obedient humble servant,

John Adams.

Major General Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO ADAMS.

Camp, Scotch Plains, May 24, 1800.

Sir:

I had the honor of receiving, an hour since, your letter of the
22d instant, with a copy of one to you from Colonel Smith.

I am happy to think that the question presented is on mere
military principles a very simple one. The rule of promotion
by succession does not, in any service, as far as my knowledge
goes, apply to a new corps in its fresh organization. Officers for
such a corps, it is understood, may be found wheresoever it is
thought fit, without regard to those of the antecedent establish-
ment. This rule has been repeatedly and recently acted upon
in this country, and is necessary and right.

The regularity of complying with the wish of Colonel Smith
depends, then, on the fact, whether the second regiment of artil-
lery has ever been organized. I believe that it never has been,

^T. 43.1

MILITARY PAPERS. 431

never yet having had. a commandant; and, I have supposed,
that this state of the thing was the reason why the eldest major
of the two regiments was not long before this appointed as a
matter of right. If I am correct in the fact, (of which the Secre-
tary of War can give you precise information,) the conclusion is,
that the appointment of Colonel Smith will violate no military
rule, nor the right of any other oflScer. It may, and probably
will, contravene expectations entertained on reasonable grounds ;
but this is a different thing from the infraction of a right.

But except on the principle that the regiment was never or-
ganized. Colonel Smith, an oflEicer of infantry, could not be
placed in the command of it, in exclusion of the majors of the
corps without departing from military ideas.

The major and other officers of the additional battalion may,
doubtless, with strict regularity, be appointed from the of&cers
on this ground, if it shall be thought expedient.

What has been said is, I imagine, a full answer to the in-
quiry you have been pleased to make ; and perhaps I ought to
say no more. Yet if I did stop here, I should not be satisfied
that I had fulfilled all that candor and delicacy required of me.
I will therefore take the liberty to add a few words. There are
collateral considerations affecting the expediency of the measure
which, I am sure, will not escape your reflection, and if after
weighing them duly, you shall be of opinion that they ought not
to prevail as obstacles, you will without doubt anticipate criti-
cism.

I trust this remark will not be misunderstood. The opinion
I have of Colonel Smith's military pretensions, my personal re-
gard for him, and my sensibility to his situation, conspire to
beget in me sentiments very different from a disposition to throw
the least impediment in the way of his success.

432 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

HAMILTON TO SWAN.

Camp, Scotch Plains, May 26, 1800.

Sm:

I send you the copy of a letter of the 14th instant, from
Captain Ellery, with the documents to which it refers.

If my recollection be right, there lies an appeal from the ac-
countant to the Comptroller of the Treasury. If so, I request
that you will, without delay, on behalf of Captain Ellery, make
an appeal.

After much reflection, I do not perceive any sound distinction
between special compensations to persons not of the army and
similar compensations to officers of the army for services, which
do not appertain to the nature of their offices.

Their established compensations cannot be presumed to em-
brace such services ; as to these they are mere strangers, with the
sole difference, that being already in the employ and pay of the
government, it is reasonable they should receive less allowances.

If, as the practice admits, it is within Executive discretion to
allow special compensations to strangers, payable out of the fund
for contingencies, it must be on the principle, that such services
being casually necessary, and not provided for by law, it is requi-
site to the progress of the service, and agreeable to an implied
license in the appropriation of the fund, that they should be
called forth, and recompensed by Executive authority. And
the same principle would extend to allowances to particular offi-
cers for services which the laws did not contemplate that they
were to perform, and consequently did not provide for. The
interest of the service will manifestly be promoted by this exten-
sion. In numerous instances officers may be made use of for
such purposes without interfering with the parts of the service
for which they were destined ; and in all such instances, as their
allowances will be less than would be made to strangers, there
will be economy in employing them ; besides that in many cases
they are best qualified, and in some situations other qualified
persons could not be found at all.

^T. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 433

To say that special compensations for special services is in
no case within Executive discretion, would be contrary to uni-
form usage, and would arrest the wheels of every branch of the
government. In the military service, especially, innumerable
casualties occur in which the exercise of that discretion is indis-
pensable.

What is to be done ? A person is appointed lieutenant of a
regiment; there is a certain routine of duties incident to the
station. These are foreign to the clerical and peculiar duties at-
tached to different branches of the staff. These, besides demand-
ing particular qualifications, frequently involve close a23plication
and constant drudgery.

Suppose an officer is called to exchange the one station for
the other, without an equivalent for the additional labor and
skill ; may he not reasonably decline it, and say, this service is
not within the terms of my undertaking with the public? Sup-
pose even, that the disposition of military subordination would
not tolerate a refusal ; could a service proceed with harmony and
satisfaction, and advantage, in which such a despotism was exer-
cised ?

Will it be said that the future justice of the legislature is to
be relied upon ? Will ofiicers cheerfully undertake or assiduously
perform on such precarious ground ? Is it right to compromise
a commanding general, by laying him under the necessity of
giving expectations which may not be realized ?

There can be no doubt on this question where justice and ex-
pediency point ; and though first appearances may countenance
the distinction which has been made, a more thorough view of
the subject shows it to be too nice and subtle for practice.

I trust that the Comptroller, on mature consideration, will
regret the distinction. You will please to communicate to him
this letter, that he may see the reasoning on which I gave my
sanction to Captain Ellery for the expenditure which he has
made. It may be depended upon that the business of the depart-
ment absolutely required it.

With great consideration, &;c.

The Paymaster-General.

E 28

434 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 43.

HAMILTON TO

Head-Quarters, Union Brigade, May 27th, 1800.

Sir:

It is very important in tactics to ascertain the proper length
and speed of the step. For this purpose I am causing experi-
ments to be made in various quarters, and I have drawn up the
inclosed paper to serve as a guide in making them. I request
that you will have experiments made in all the varieties indi-
cated, and report the result.

HAMILTON TO RIVARDI.

Camp, Scotch Plains, May 31st, 1800.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the 15th instant.

As we live in a jealous country, and in jealous times, a visit
from Governor Hunter and the Duke of Kent is not to be courted.

If, however, circumstances should occur in which the thing
cannot be avoided without a breach of politeness or liberality, it
must be met with a good grace. With this caution, I leave the
matter to your prudence and delicacy.

If a visit shall take place, the same ceremonies are to be ob-
served towards the Governor, as would be observed towards a
similar character in our own country. That is, he will be re-
ceived by the garrison with presented arms — ofi&cers and colors
saluting, and music playing. In the reception of the Duke of
Kent, there will be the additional ceremonies of a discharge of
artillery, and the honors of the flag.

Under the circumstances stated, I consent to your taking an
additional servant from the garrison.

^T.43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 435

ADAMS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 20th, 1800.

Sir:

The itinerant life I have led has prevented me from acknow-
ledging the receipt of your favor of May 24th until this time.
Your sentiments are very satisfactory to me, and will be duly
attended to.

I anticipate criticism in every thing which relates to Colonel
Smith. But criticism, now criticised so long, I regard no more
than " Great George, a Birth-day Song." Colonel Smith served
through the war with high applause of his superiors. He has
served abroad in the diplomatic corps, at home as marshal and
supervisor, and now as commandant of a brigade. These are
services of his own, not mine. His claims are his own. I see
no reason or justice in excluding him from all service while his
comrades are all ambassadors or generals, merely because he
married my daughter.

I am, Sir, with mucli regard.

Your most obedient and humble servant,

John Adams.

Major-General Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO M'HENRY.

New- York, June 28th, 1800.

Sir:

An extraordinary pressure of business since the receipt of
your letter of the 10th inst., has delayed a reply to that part of
it which respects the rule of promotion.

This rule was not adopted on my recommendation singly,
but on the recommendation of the Commander-in-Chief, sup-
ported by the opinion of General Pinckney and myself.

Of its expediency with regard to the corps of artillerists and
engineers, I have always had some doubt.

436 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 43.

The smallness of that corps in point of number avoids the
inconvenience of a lineal promotion of captains. The nature of
its service, almost always by detachments, causes the reason for
a different mode to be inapplicable to it, and the scientific nature
of the corps strengthens the inducements to a strict succession
according to seniority.

But a uniform rule was thought most eligible ; and I have not
the least doubt that the rule of promotion, regimentally to the
rank of majority, inclusively, is the best with regard to the in-
fantry and cavalry.

In corps which act collectively, there is an advantage in keep-
ing the men as much as possible with the officers to whom they
have been accustomed. As often as you bring an officer from
another regiment the advantage is lost.

But more justice is done by a regimerial promotion than by
any other mode. Corps in active service are, in various ways,
subject to losses in a much greater degree than those in a state
of repose. It is justly congenial with the natural feelings of
the human heart, and an incentive to exertion, that promotion
should keep pace with danger and suffering.

If, when a regiment had been half destroyed by a bloody
action, the advancement of all the remaining officers was im-
peded by bringing captains from garrisons perhaps a thousand
miles off", the effect upon those officers would be very discour-
aging, and the influence upon the service very inauspicious.

It may be asked, Why not apply this reasoning to the field
officers ? The answer is, that when the grade becomes of this
importance it carries with it a tenaciousness of the principle of
promotion by seniority ; and the whole number not being very
considerable, the delay of lineal promotion is less sensibly felt
and the effect less extensive.

Balancing the opposite considerations, it is judged the least
inconvenient to regulate the higher grades by a lineal promotion.
You have herewith a report of Major Hoops concerning the
late disturbance at West Point.

North has since set on foot criminal prosecutions against Cap-
tain Stille and several of his men for riot and theft. A hot-

iET. 43.] MILITARY PAPERS. 43*7

headed magistrate, witliout tlie decency of a previous resort to
higher authority, issued a warrant, upon which the captain and
those men were apprehended, and after a refusal to bail them,
committed them to the common jail of the county. On the rep-
resentation of the district attorney, a habeas corpus was issued
by our Supreme Court, and the prisoners have all been liberated
on easy bail. The honor and success of the service require abso-
lutely that this affair should be probed with all possible atten-
tion. I have expressed this opinion ; you may perhaps think it
expedient to confirm the sentiment.

HAMILTON TO if HENRY.

July 2d, 1800.

Sir:

From the terms of the act disbanding the additional army
and correspondence with the Department of "War, I consider our
military operations ceased. When, therefore, any remnants of
the business formerly under my superintendence present them-
selves, I can only lay them before you for your consideration and
decision.

In pursuance of this idea I send you the inclosed account.

July, 1800.
Major-General Hamilton has it in command from the Presi-
dent of the United States, to assure the officers and men of the
corps which are about to retire from the service, that he entertains
a strong sense of the laudable zeal by which they were induced to
take the field at the appearance of danger to their country, and
of their good conduct in every respect, since they have been in
the service ; and that he deeply regrets any inconvenience which
may result to any of them from an anticipated dissolution of

438 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 43.

their services — that he doubts not their patriotism will lead them
to make a just construction of the motives of the government,
and that he relies firmly upon them as the zealous defenders of
their country in any future emergency.

The Major-General is happy to be the organ of this expres-
sion of the sentiments of the President. To add the assurance
of his high sense of their merits, is a tribute due to them and to
justice. He cherishes a deep sympathy in the feelings which na-
turally actuate them at so interesting a moment, and he entreats
them to be persuaded that his warm affection will follow them,
wheresoever they may be.

Mr. 32.]

CORRESPONDENCE

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Monday morning, January 4th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

I feel myself very mucli obliged by wliat you sent me yes-
terday.

The letter from Governor Johnston I return, much pleased to
find so authentic an account of the adoption, by North Carolina,
of the Constitution.

Yours, sincerely and affectionately,

George Washington,

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Alexandria, September 3d, 1789.

My Dear Sir:

Lest my brother should have returned, I take the liberty of
asking your safe delivery of the two letters inclosed, and any re-
ply which may be given to you for me. At the same time, let
me present my hearty gratulations for the proper honor you
have received from our country.

I anticipate good to the public, and new lustre to my friend.

440 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 32.

notwithstanding the obstinate difficulties and embarrassments
which oppress our finance.

May complete success crown your endeavors. How is Mrs.
H. and fomily ? Poor Mrs. Lee continues still very infirm. She
desires to be remembered to her good friend.

Always yours,

Harry Lee.

HAMILTON TO LAFAYETTE.

New-York, October 6tli, 1789.

My Dear Marquis:

I have seen, with a mixture of pleasure and apprehension,
the progress of the events which have lately taken place in your
country. As a friend to mankind and to liberty, I rejoice in the
efforts which you are making to establish it, while I fear much
for the final success of the attempts, for the fate of those I esteem
who are engaged in it, and for the danger, in case of success, of
innovations greater than will consist with the real felicity of your
nation. If your affairs still go well, when this reaches you, you
will ask why this foreboding of ill, when all the appearances
have been so much in your favor. I will tell you : I dread dis-
agreements among those who are now united, (which will be
likely to be improved by the adverse party,) about the nature of
your constitution; I dread the vehement character of your
people, whom I fear you may find it more easy to bring on, than
to keep within proper bounds after you have put them in motion.
I dread the interested refractoriness of your nobles, who cannot
all be gratified, and who may be unwilling to submit to the re-
quisite sacrifices. And I dread the reveries of your philosophic
politicians, who appear in the moment to have great influence,
and who, being mere speculatists, may aim at more refinement
than suits either with human nature or the composition of your
nation.

These, my dear Marquis, are my apprehensions. My wishes

vEt. 32.] CORRESPONDENCE. 441

for your personal success, and that of the cause of liberty, are in-
cessant. Be virtuous amidst the seductions of ambition, and you
can hardly in any event be unhappy. You are combined with a
great and good man : jou. will anticipate the name of Necker. I
trust you and he will never cease to harmonize.

You will, I presume, have heard before this gets to hand, that
I have been appointed to the head of the finances of this coun-
try. This event, I am sure, will give you pleasure. In under-
taking the task I hazard much, but I thought it an occasion that
called upon me to hazard. I have no doubt that the reasonable
expectation of the public may be satisfied, if I am properly sup-
ported by the Legislature, and in this respect, I stand at present
on the most encouraging footing.

The debt due to France, will be among the first objects of
my attention. Hitherto it has been from necessity neglected.
The session of Congress is now over. It has been exhausted in
the organization of the government, and in a few laws of imme-
diate urgency respecting navigation and commercial imposts.
The subject of the debt, foreign and domestic, has been referred
to the next session, which will commence the first Monday in
January with an instruction to me to prepare and report a plan
comprehending an adequate provision for the support of the pub-
lic credit. There were many good reasons for a temporary ad-
journment.

From this sketch, you will perceive that I am not in a situa-
tion to address any thing oflicially to your administration ; but I
venture to say to you, as my friend, that if the instalments of
the principal of the debt could be suspended for a few years, it
would be a valuable accommodation to the United States. In
this suggestion, I contemplate a speedy paj^nent of the arrears of
interest now due, and eftectual provision for the punctual pay-
ment of future interest as it arises. Could an arrangement of
this sort meet the approbation of 3'our government, it would be
best on every account that the offer should come unsolicited as a
fresh mark of good will.

I wrote you last by Mr. De Varville. I presume you received

442 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 32.

my letter. As it touched some delicate topics, I should be glad
to know its fate.

Yours, with unalterable esteem and affection,
Alexander Hamilton.

P. S. The latest accounts from France, have abated some of
my apprehensions. The abdications of privileges patronized by
your Nobility in the States General, are truly noble, and bespeak
a patriotic and magnanimous policy, which promises good both
to them and their country.

WITHERSPOON TO HAMILTON.

Princeton, October 26th, 1789.

Dear Sir :

On Saturday I had the pleasure of receiving yours of the
20th. It is very flattering to me that you suppose I can render
any assistance by advice in the important duties of your present
station. It is true that, from tlie very earliest part of life, it has
been a favorite object with me to attend to the state of society,
and the operation and influence of political causes, and, among
the rest, money, as a medium of commerce and things connected
with it. It happened, also, that about thirty-two years ago we
had several accurate discussions in Scotland and England re-
specting the banking companies, on which subject I read much
and wrote some ; but my knowledge of these matters is all
general and theoretical. It is always my desire, if possible, to
reach the first and radical principles of any thing ; and when
these are well understood, you may look through, as it were, the
whole effects with great celerity as well as certainty. As to the
ofl&cial detail of business in the management of Treasury affairs,
I know as little about it as any person whatever.

However very willing to contribute all the assistance in my
power to the public service, I observe, that as I have been,
unexpectedly chosen a member of the Assembly of this State,

jet.32.] correspondence. 443

wliicli my friends have pressed me to comply witli, I shall be at
Amboy for a month or two from this date, and will probably
make an excursion to New-York, when I will do myself the
pleasure of calling upon you ; and if any thing worth communi-
cating occur to me, shall impart it in conversation, which can be
more full and satisfactory than it could be by writing.

In the mean time, as you mention a proper provision for the
public debt, the evil that has pervaded our whole affairs in
America, has been the want of a just sense of the sacredness of
public credit. We have still an idea, meeting us in conversation
and publication, that a discrimination must be made between
original creditors and speculators, as they call them. I am free
to speak upon this subject, because I never was a speculator or
trafficker of any kind, and I never had such faith in the public
since the year 1777, as to purchase a certificate; so that I am
not possessed of one security as my own ; but discrimination is
totally subversive of public credit. I remember to have said
this to some persons. English funds are not depreciated like
ours, yet they are depreciated.

Sailors' tickets and navy debentures are sometimes as far as
from 20 to 25 per cent, discount. Now if every member in Par-
liament, or any person in the pay-office, should say to one buy-
ing a number of them, " Where do you get these? You are a
speculator; you never drew a rope in a ship ; you did not pay
the full value of them, and we will not pay you the full value of
them ;" such a thing registered and believed in the Exchange of
London, would bring the whole national debt to the ground in
two hours.

Keeping any thing further till meeting,
I remain.

Dear Sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

JnO. WlTHERSPOON

444 . HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

M'^HENEY TO HAMILTON.

Baltimore, October 27, 1789.

Dear Sir:

Being obliged to attend our Legislature the first of next
month, it will be out of mj power to collect, examine, and pre-
pare the necessary facts relative to your queries, at least till after
the end of the session ; and as a majority of the house of dele-
gates is said to be anti-federal, I can form no judgment of its
duration.

Be assured I was not only made exceedingly happy by your
appointment, but shall always rejoice at every circumstance
which can add either to your fame or fortune. Your ofiice is
vastly important, and yoa are worthy of it, and what is more,
equal to its duties, but at the same time it is extremely hazard-
ous, I cannot tell whether all the wisdom, and justice, and
policy, and politics j^ou can put into your plan will procure
them, in all conjunctures, a good reception in Congress ; or
rather, for how many ages these qualities will serve instead of
the means which a British minister employs to insure success
to his.

HAMILTON TO DUER.

1789.

"While I truly regret, my dear friend, that the necessity of
your situation compels you to relinquish a station in which public
and personal considerations combine to induce me to wish your
continuance, I cannot but be sensible of the force of the motives
by which you are determined. And I interest myself in your
happiness too sincerely not to acquiesce in whatever may redound
to your advantage. I confess, too, that upo7i rejledion I cannot
help thinking you have decided rightly.

I count with confidence on your future friendship, as you
may on mine.

^T. 32.] CORRESPONDENCE. 445

An engagement at tlie President's will not let me meet you at
dinner, but I shall be happy to see you in the evening.

Adieu — God bless you, and give you the success for which
you will always have the warmest wishes of
Your affectionate

A. Hamilton.

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, Nov. 1G, '89.

My Dear Sir:

The letter sent to your care, be pleased to return.

Your undertaking is truly arduous, but I trust, as you pro-
gress in the work, difficulties will vanish.

From your situation you must be able to form with some
certainty an opinion concerning the domestic debt. Will it
speedily rise? Will the interest accruing command specie or
any thing nearly as valuable ? What will become of the indents
already issued ?

These queries are asked for my private information; per-
haps they may be improper. I do not think them so or I would
not propound them — of this you will decide, and act accordingly.
Nothing can induce me to be instrumental in submitting my
friend to an impropriety. I wrote General Knox some time ago,
inclosing a letter for Governor St. Clair.

Will you before you answer me know whether my letter
was received ?

The anti-federal gentlemen in our Assembly do not relish the
amendments proposed by Congress to the Constitution,
Yours always and affectionately,

Henry Lee.

446 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 32.

HAMILTON TO COL. K. H. HARBISON.

New-York, Nov. 27th, 1789.

My Dear Friend:

After having labored with you in the common cause of Ame-
rica during the late war, and having learnt your value, judge of
the pleasure I feel in the prospect of a reunion of efforts in this
same cause ; for I consider the business of America's happiness
as yet to be done.

In proportion to that sentiment has been my disappointment
at learning that you had declined a seat on the Bench of the
United States. Cannot your determination, my dear friend, be
reconsidered ?

One of your objections, I think, will be removed ; I mean
that which relates to the nature of the establishment. Many
concur in opinion that its present form is inconvenient, if not
impracticable. Should an alteration take place, your otlier ob-
jection will also be removed; for you can then be nearly as
much at home as you are now.

If it is possible, my dear Harrison, give yourself to us. We
want men like you. They are rare in all times. Adieu.
Your affectionate friend.

And obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO LEE.

•New-York, December 1st, 1789.

My Dear Friend:

I received your letter of the 16th instant, I am sure you are
sincere when you say that you would not subject me to an im-
propriety ; nor do I know there would be any in my answering
your queries. But you remember the saying with regard to

^T. 32.] CORRESPONDENCE. 447

Cffisar's -wife. I think the spirit of it applicable to every man
concerned in the administration of the finance of a country.
"With respect to the conduct of such men, suspicion is ever eagle-
eyed. And the most innocent things may be misinterpreted.
Be assured of the affection and friendship of your

A. Hamiltojst.

WADSWORTH TO HAMILTON.

Hartford, December 17th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The author of the Observer has in view to procure the good
will of the citizens of this State to the National Government,
and to have the State debts adopted. He will go on if none of
his projects oppose yours — have you read him ? The next week
will produce an Observer, which proposes a land tax, and repro-
bates a mode of collection. I wish you would read them, and
if you find nothing which you disapprove, say so.

The time draws near when Congress meet, I shall be called
on for a militia bill — you know who I expect it from. Hitherto
the merchants of this State have been nearly unanimous in their
support of the impost — but they are greatly agitated at the pros-
pect of being obliged to pay the duties which arose before the
ofiice was opened. There will be so many actions brought, and
such disgust given, that I fear the evil will be greater than the
good.

I am, dear Sir,

Sincerely your friend,

Jeremiah Wadsworth.

448 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 33.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Paris, Jan. 31st, 1790.

Dear Hamilton :

I did expect that in congratulating jon, wliicli I do most sin-
cerely, upon your appointment, I should have communicated a
matter which would have administered much ease and conve-
nience to the aftairs of your department. I learn this morning,
that these expectations are frustrated from a quarter and in a
manner which would excite my surprise, had I not long since
acquired the habit of wondering at nothing. I will tell you a
plain story.

M. Necker, pressed for money, had listened to overtures for
selling the debt of the United States, and mentioned the matter
to some members of the ISTational Assembly, by which means it
became known to the principal Americans, and friends of America
here. I own, that upon the first mention of the matter, it ap-
peared to me a thing of indifference, and so I expressed mj^self.
Our duty is to pay to such creditors as may possess the demand.
But further information placed the affair in a different point of
light. It appeared that the offer was for a small part, at a great
discount ; and that the terms of the bargain were to be debated
in the National Assembly, and consequently our reputation
sported with. Mr. Short did every thing in his power, but hav-
ing no pointed instructions, could onlj^ express the result of his
own judgment and feelings. But the minister was pressed for
money, and he had the offer of money. Under these circum-
stances, in connection with a society of friends to America, I
made M. Necker an offer, such as in my conception was honor-
able to France, to America, and to the parties. This proposition
(after stating the amount of the principal and interest which
would be due on the first of January, 1790, and considering that
as a new capital on which the interest was to run) contains the
following terms : " Oujjwjwse de Vacquenr du gouvernment, et a cet
effet de Vacquitter en entier ])ar des rentes ^erjjetuelks de la France
montanies a la meme somme." This payment was to be made in

/Et. 32.] CORRESPOI^DENCE. 449

the year 1790 and 1791 ; consequently, so far as France is con-
cerned, tlie offer went to a full, complete, and entire payment,
and that at a much earlier period than is stipulated by the terms
of the loans themselves. To this was added a further offer, in
case the situation of affairs in this kingdom should require it, in
the following terms : ^^ Ou se charger a de solder en argent la moi-
tie de la dite rente aux prix courant des effets royauxP This part of
the offer has no other merit than to secure to the minister the
sale of the French effects, if he thought proper, and is therefore a
matter rather of convenience than advantage. I communicated
this plan, beforehand, to Mr. Short and to the Marquis de La-
fayette, who both considered it as an excellent means of saving
at the same time the honor and interest of America, while it fur-
nished a useful resource to France. I showed it also to Mon-
sieur de Montmorin, who, having well weighed and considered it,
assured me that he most heartily appro vedf it, and would do every
thing in his power to secure the success.

In the supposition that this plan were adopted here, applica-
tion was to be made through you to the United States, to pay the
amount of this debt in obligations for current guilders, calculat-
ing the exchange at par ; those obligations to bear five per cent,
interest, and to be paid in instalments, the first of which to com-
mence five years hence. Consequently, as the Society was to
bear all the charges of negotiation, &c., &c., it follows clearly
that the United States would have obtained the needful time re-
quired for their accommodation without a farthing of expense,
and without the pain of soliciting it from this court. It was there-
fore equally honorable and useful for them. It was honorable
also to the parties. First, because they became eminently useful
to the societies of which they are respectively members ; and,
secondly, because the advantage, if any, which they were to de-
rive, would result merely from a careful and industrious attention
to the variations of the exchange and fluctuations in the effects,
and from the use of their funds and credit to make investments
at the proper times and seasons, which, as far as the sum of forty
millions of livres and upwards can go, must necessarily have sus-
E 29

450 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 32.

tained the value of the stocks here. And you will observe that
this was clearly stated and understood.

The proposition was delivered to M. Necker, on the fifth of
December. You will observe, that in framing it, we counted
upon the aid of money-lenders in Holland ; and in preference to
others, upon the commissioners of the United States. We
learned, however, that these gentlemen had, notwithstanding the
remonstrances of Mr. Jacob Van Staphorst, who has a real and
warm regard for America, joined with those who made the offer
to M. Necker.

Through the channel that brought us this information, an
mterview was brought about between Monsieur de la Chaise and
Mr. Van Staphorst, charged with the final proposition to M.
Necker and me. I told those gentlemen, that I was convinced
their offer could not be accepted, (by the by, M. Necker had
told me that the sum offered was not sufficient,) and that, if ac-
cepted by the minister, it could not be adopted by the Assembly,
and that they risked doing great injury to America without any
advantage to themselves; that I would communicate to them
an offer I had made, and which I had great reason to believe
would be adopted ; that I would offer them an interest in it, or
a commission, at their option ; that if they should not approve
of holding a concern, I would then lie still, and let them make
the most of their plans without opposition, but asked the assur-
ance on the part of themselves and of their principals, (those
whom they represented,) that if they found their own scheme
impracticable, and did not choose to adventure with me, they
should only not oppose. This being solemnly promised, I stated
the matter to them at large, and they came so fully into my
views, as to withhold the proposition they were directed to
make, and send an express on the subject to Amsterdam.

The interview was on the 11th of December, in the even-
ing. Some further discussions were needful, which we had the
next day. I avoided going to M. Necker's, because I was to do
nothing which would defeat their plan. On the 26th, Mr. Hub-
bard, partner of the house of Staphorst, arrived, charged to
make their offer, with a budget of reasons in support of it. This

^T. 32.] CORRESPONDENCE. 451

offer was to purcliase tlie 6,000,000 at a discount of about eleven
per cent. It was made immediately ; and on the morning of the
28th he called on me, in company with Mr. Van Staphorst.

I had been repeatedly assured from different quarters, that
M. Necker was ready to treat with me, but I had not put myself
in his way. The conversation with Mr. Hubbard was not very
long. I heard what he had to say, and replied with great preci-
sion, but so as to change entirely his opinion. You will not won-
der at this, when I tell you the purport of the 9bjections he had
brought forward : first, that it was too profitable to the parties ;
secondly, too burdensome to France; and thirdly, might injure
the credit of America by selling the obligations too low. To the
first I replied by a smile, and the assurance that I never expected
such an objection from Holland. This disconcerted him. To
the second, I answered, that M.Necker understood his[own busi-
ness, and might safely be trusted in making a bargain ; but I
showed him further, that the bargain was a good one. To the
last I made the answer, which I am sure you have already made
in your own mind, viz., that if the commissioners of the United
States could safely be trusted in making negotiations, where the
loss was to be borne by their employers, a fortiori might they be
trusted where the loss was to be borne by themselves.

As all this was merely ostensible, I pressed him hard for the
real reasons, but could get nothing more than assurances that
there were no other than those above mentioned. As these were
clearly refuted, of course he acknowledged himself converted;
but Hudibras has very well observed, that

" Who's convinced against his will,
Is of tlie same opinion still."

A more effectual change was wrought by M. Necker, who,
on the second of this month, refused their offer. On the morn-
ing of the third, Mr. Hubbard called and informed me of this,
and in the afternoon of the fifth, he set off for Amsterdam, ap-
parently desirous of bringing all his friends into my views. The
business went on but slowly in Amsterdam ; and Mr. Jacob Van
Staphorst was amused from time to time, and amused me, with

452 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 32.

the expectation that each succeeding post would bring their de-
finitive answer. But this morning he tells me, with very sin-
cere regret, what has been done. The letter to you on this sub-
ject I have read, and will make a few remarks upon it; but shall
not be very precise, perhaps, as it is only from memory of what
it contained that I write.

The idea of an enormous profit, admitting for a moment that
such were to accrue, would hardly have been with them what
Candid calls the sufficient reason for refusal, although, perhaps, it
might have been for acceptance. But you can judge of the ex-
tent of that profit, and you will, with me, smile at the absurdity
of connecting with such profit a sacrifice in the price of Ameri-
can obligations, on the vending of which at or near par, the profit
must certainly depend. There is something else which, perhaps,
is more ridiculous still, viz. that the United States, whose obli-
gations, belonging to numerous individuals, are daily sold on the
change of Amsterdam, should apprehend an injury to their credit,
from trusting a farther negotiation to persons, whose immediate
interest in supporting that credit would be so great. They state
as a great difficulty, the borrowing of twelve millions within the
term, when on the same pledge they can borrow twenty. Their
statement of sums, is not, I believe, very accurate, or perhaps
my memory is not accurate. However, I am sure the idea is,
that the greater sum can be borrowed more easily than the less.
There is also the farther very extraordinary idea that it is for the
interest of the United States to pay between four and five per
cent, upon a negotiation, rather than get it done for nothing. I
shall not notice many expressions which are injurious, but make
to their affectation of disinterestedness, the answer which Jacob
Van Staphorst made to me. It is very strange that they should
say all this, when they must remember that in M. Colomb's time,
they offered him only fourteen millions of livres for one half of
the thirty-two, and arrearages of interest, but would not take the
whole, even at that rate, which is the reason why the bargain
was broken off. I should make but a poor excuse for so long a
story, if I stopped here ; but I will now proceed to give you
what I conceive to be the key of the riddle.

^T. 32.] CORRESPONDENCE. 453

These gentlemen are engaged, as I suppose you know, in very
extensive speculations upon the funded debt of America, They
have lately worked this matter to a most astonishing benefit.
Above three millions of that debt, which cost them five shillings
in the pound, has been made the basis of a loan on which they
receive sixty per cent., and are bound to repay it by instalments
from the interest receivable in America. The Dutch, however, pre-
fer lending at five per cent, to the Congress direct. It is, there-
fore, essential to the success of their schemes, that they should
be able to suspend the one loan always, till they have completed
the other, and thus our national interests are rendered subservi-
ent to their particular negotiations. You will easily see that one
such operation, in which there is no risk, is better worth pursuing
than the very great profit they complain of With this hint you
will understand the matter thoroughly. I must come to a con-
clusion.

I did not see M. Necker as I expected this afternoon, because
lie was gone to council ; however I must suspend, at least, the
matter with him ; but you may rely on it that if the minister at
this court, or any other agent, be authorized fully to deal in the
business, and, if the court will not readily agree to a new arrange-
ment respecting the debt, to contract with individuals, that the
matter can be yet managed in the manner above mentioned, pro-
vided it be not too long delayed. As to the loan which the com-
missioners have undertaken of their own heads, you may, I
think, derive great advantage from it ; for in the first place, your
minister or agent can make terms with them to that amount at
pleasure, for the benefit of the United States ; and you may, in
the next place, convert the money to very useful purpose by
sinking three or four -times as much of the domestic debt, and
raising the price at the same time towards par, which will pre-
vent the success of speculations by foreigners which are a loss to
America.

I am very truly, &c.,

GOUVEENEUR MORRTS.

454 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^T. 33.

GENERAL LINCOLN TO HAMILTON.

Boston, Feb. 16, 1790.

Dear Sir:

To reduce things involved in confusion to a state of order, in
all cases requires labor and attention. The task is increased by
the magnitude of the object, and is rendered perplexing indeed,
where there are a deficiency of means, and where different inter-
ests, ably supported and stubbornly adhered to, must be com-
bined for the completion of the system in view. To devise a
scheme which shall at once embrace all the great objects neces-
sary to the restoration of our character and importance abroad,
and for the preservation of peace and happiness at home, and to
bring it forward with that address and fairness which shall unite
the whole, is one of the greatest burdens, the performance of
which has ever been assigned to any of the officers of the United
States. Fortunate for the Union the heavy task is yours.

Permit me to say to you, sir, and think it not the language
of adulation, that notwithstanding the expectations of the people
on your appointment, were, from a knowledge of your abilities,
raised to a very extraordinary height, yet they suffered no dis-
appointment from seeing your report, saving those who are un-
friendly to the great arrangements necessary to be embraced for
the political salvation of this country. Our best citizens are
very desirous of adopting your plan, and their only anxiety now
arises from an apprehension lest Congress should so mutilate it
as to destroy its leading and ornamental features, and the neces-
sary and beautiful connection of its parts, and thereby render it,
like all other of our plans of finance, unsystematical, imperfect,
and insecure.

I have attended to the observations of various writers in the
public newspapers, who seem disposed to question the propriety
of your report. I am pleased that neither of them have ventured
fairly to represent you, or have dared fully to meet your argu-
ments. A thousand such writers will never lose you a friend in
this part of the United States, or lessen your interest here. I

^T. 33.] CORRESPONDENCE. 455

know you have a crowd of admirers among us, who never will
forsake you, while you are permitted to act yourself.

Suffer me to hope, that if Congress, blind to the interest of
the Union, should so mangle your system as that you could be
no longer responsible for the efficacy of it, that you would leave
them to attempt an execution of their own plans. If they do not
effect it, the blame must fall on themselves, as it ought to do ;
and you reserved, uncensured, for a pilot in a season, yet more
boisterous and distressing than is the present, to which I think
we shall rapidly hasten, if your report should be rejected.
Although I have thus expressed myself respecting your retiring
from office, yet God forbid that any infatuation should so possess
the minds of Congress as to make the measure necessary either
for your own honor or the public good.

I have the honor of being, dear Sir,

With great esteem,

Your most obedient servant,
B. Lincoln.

TENCH COXE TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 5th, 1790.

Dear Sir:

I find more difficulty like to arise in the minds of the mem-
bers about the State debts than any other part of your report, as
far as I can judge from my letters. All the public creditors here
are against the assumption : those of the Continent, because it
will increase the sum among the owners of which the federal
revenues are to be divided ; and those of the State, because they
would rather take their chance with her than with the Union.
It is unpleasing to our antis, because, they say, it will produce
the old demon, consolidation, which they raised up as a bugbear
to prevent the adoption of the Constitution. Many of the federal-
ists and principal country gentlemen do not like it because we
owe so little as a State and possess federal securities to a greater

456 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 33.

amount. My argument with them all is, that the revolution of
1789, for as such I view it, was intended to settle a great number
of public difficulties — that this was among them — and that it then
was, and is now evident, that concessions of particular advan-
tages would be necessary to enable us to surmount those diffi-
culties— that this is one of the very few which Pennsylvania,
New-York, and other States, having small separate debts, can be
called upon to make — that an expensive and uncertain adminis-
tration of our finances must be the consequence of fourteen sys-
tems of revenue, and therefore that we ought to consent to the
assumption.

I have the honor to be,

With very great respect, dear Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant,
Tench Coxe.

COXE TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 9th, 1790.

D^AR Sir:

I find by several letters from New-York, that the bill relative
to the residence has hitherto stood its ground, which affords a
further hope that this agitating business will be settled by the
present attempt. It has really become necessary, for the govern-
ment has been exceedingly depreciated by it even here. Many
who consider it as a great object, still think it not worth the
expense of time, money, and character, which it is like to cost.

The public creditors are to have a meeting this evening — but
it is not much liked by some of the most judicious of them. It
is suspected to have our elections as much as public credit for its
object. I do not think, however, that it will do any harm. The
assumption, if mentioned there, will be supported, I think, by a
considerable strength. 'Tis probable it will be spoken of in the
course of what will fall from the speakers. You may be satis-

JEt. 33.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 457

fied, that the assumption has gained ground very considerably in
this city, and that it will not lose the supporters it now has, who
believe it the sine qua non of a satisfactory funding system. The
hope of making better terms by a concert with the friends of as-
sumption has made a pretty strong impression on the minds of
several influential men to whom I have suggested it, though they
think it will not be easy to make some of the strong opponents
admit the idea.

I direct this letter to be sent down to you immediately, as the
information on this last point will be satisfactory, and may be
wanted.

I am, dear sir, your affectionate and obedient servant.

COXE TO HAMILTON.

SuNBURY, Bucks, July 10, 1790.

Dear Sir :

I am now at my father's, on my way to Jersey, to spend a day
or two with my two eldest children, before I finish the time
proposed for my absence.

The public creditors had a small meeting last night, and ap-
pointed a new standing committee. They appeared moderate
and prudent, but solicitous for a good funding system. They did
not attempt any business or resolutions, but left everything to the
discretion of this committee, according as events may prove. I
think they will be pleased with an excise, and that the body of
the people will not be averse to it. Some of the strict executive
parts of the proposed law were the causes of their exceptions to
it, but though they may be unpleasant, it is to be duly considered
whether an equal collection could be effected without them. I
find the principal creditors viewed the Readers of the opposition
to the excise bill with jealousy, though they do not approve some
parts of it.

I understand here that the principal man among the oppo-

458 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 33.

nents to the assumption is Mr. Pettit, who was to set out for
New- York to-day. I am of opinion that his objections to it
would be much weakened, if he could be convinced, either that
it is the sine qua non of funding, or that the terms of the new
loan might, by its means, be meliorated.

Exchange has advanced in Philadelphia to 172i or 2,\ per
cent, premium.

The importations of European goods are expected to be very
great this autumn.

I inclose for my little friend, Philip, a copy of the Elements
of Geography, which I mentioned, with my very respectful com-
pliments to Mrs. Hamilton.

I have the honor to be, dear Sir,

Your affectionate and obedient servant,

Tench Coxe.

WHEELOCK TO HAMILTON".

Dartmouth College, August 27th, 1790.

Sir:

The trustees of this literary institution have desired me to
express their congratulations at the prosperous state of our na-
tional finances under your wise direction. They have desired
me to communicate the high sense which they entertain of your
talents and political knowledge.

Influenced by an exalted opinion of your merit, they make a
tender of the highest honors that any university can confer.
They beg, sir, your acceptance of the Degree of Doctor of the Laws
of Nature and Nations. It is a testimony unequal to their re-
spect ; but it is the best within their power to give.

The Diploma will be completed and forwarded to you by
some safe conveyance, so soon as may be convenient.

I have the honor to be, in behalf of the Board of Trustees,
Sir, your most obedient,

And very humble servant,

John Wheelock.

^T. 33.1 CORRESPONDENCE. 459

PATERSON TO HAMILTON.

Edinburgh, 30th September, 1790.

Eespected Sir :

When one of your abilities is placed in a station where you
can be so useful to mankind, I hope it will not be thought too
officious, by one who views the establishment of liberty in Ame-
rica with pleasure, to send you the following pamphlets, viz. :

1st. The state of the public debts of Britain, and a, plan of
redeeming them^ by Dr. Price.

2d. Eeport of the Select Committee of the House of Com-
mons on the Income and Expenditure of 1786.

3d. Book of Kates, which contains the Custom-House Duties.

4th. Yearly Tax Tables, which contain the Inland and Ex-
cise Duties.

Eespected sir, though unknown to you. Dr. Witherspoon
and Dr. Minto, of Princetown College, know me to be a firm
friend to America. I was enticed, on reading the Report you
gave into Congress, on the state of the finances, as in the Con-
gressional Register, to send you these pamphlets. If you have
seen them before, you can give those to whom you please.

It struck me that a great genius might like to see the works
of their cotemporaries. Mr. Pitt, many in Britain think, to be
too desirous of ruling among the nations, to be able to reduce
the national debt, though the resources of the country are very
great. I am happy to have the opinions I had of the resources
of your country confirmed by the perusal of your speech. I
have now only to beg your excuse for the freedom I have taken,
and your valuable time I have consumed in the perusal of this.
As I did not do it to be taken notice of, I therefore desire no
answer. No, I did not wish to draw you into any correspond-
ence. Wishing the national debt of Britain, America, and
France reduced, and wishing you all manner of success,
I am, Sir, with due esteem and regard.

Your obedient servant,

Sam'l Paterson.

460 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 33-

LINCOLN TO HAMILTON.

Boston, December 4th, 1790.

Dear Sir:

I received by the Wednesday post your private letter, with
the newspaper containing the piece you referred to, which has
been republished in a number of our newspapers.

The Virginia resolve is not very alarming here — much less
so than might have been expected. Indeed it seems to have
produced, in some instances, a good rather than an evil, by con-
firming the doubtful in the importance of a firm, energetic head
to the Union, sufficiently strong to control the whole. I am
much surprised at the policy and conduct of Virginia. She
ought to remember that there are other States in the Union who
were as early in the habits of resolving as they, and who have
proved themselves as notable resolvers as perhaps any in the
world. But what would be the consequence should the indi-
vidual States, as soon as they found that the laws of the Union
did not, in their opinion, operate in every respect towards them
with the same mildness as they did towards some of their sister
States, feel themselves authorized to call in question the power,
and to attempt to counteract the doings, of Congress ? We shall
soon, whenever this comes into general practice, be without a
federal government ; and, with its fall, we shall probably be de-
prived, for ages to come, of the power of again assembling and
forming a system for the general government of the United
States by the voice of the people.

If instead of embracing the present Constitution with affec-
tion and gratitude, and giving it every possible support, we
sufifer it to be impaired by encroachments from different States,
and finally lost, because the operation of every law framed un-
der its influence doth not apply with equal advantage to every
State, we shall, for the same reason, reject every system which
can be formed for our government.

States, unequally divided as these States are, must, from
the nature of things, beget an unequal representation, and, ex-

^T. 33.] CORRESPONDENCE. 461

tending from Nortli to Sontli, must by their limits embrace va-
rious climates, yielding diflferent productions, and thereby exci-
ting different views among citizens of different States. Hence,
laws having a general operation, may not render the most perfect
individual justice. Yet it may not be very difficult to form a
code of laws which, on the whole, shall effect this interesting
purpose, and promote equally the happiness of the people at
large.

I hope and trust, that the different States will not ape the do-
ings of the Assembly of Virginia. They may suppose that be-
ing dissatisfied with the acts of Congress, they had a right pub-
licly to express that dissatisfaction, in the manner in which they
have done. I very much doubt their right. I hope it will not
become a general practice for the Assembly of the several States
publicly to decide on the doings of Congress. Should this mode
generally be adopted, resolutions for and against their measures
would be constantly crowding before them, keep the minds of
the people at large in a constant state of ferment and irritation ;
and lead things out of their proper course of system and order,
into channels filled with obstructions, and would fast progress to-
wards an unfriendly termination.

It appears to me that there never was a period when the Uni-
ted States had a brighter sun of prosperity, and nothing but folly
in the extreme can cloud the prospect. It is pleasing indeed to
see the general satisfaction which reigns among every class of
citizens in every part of the Union. The earth has yielded an
abundant increase, by which, after a full supply to all, there is a
large surplus which finds a ready market, and commands a satis-
factory price. The merchant is finding an advantageous sale for
his imports, and the means of discharging his foreign obligations,
while it has been optional with the husbandmen in general, to re-
ceive their pay in specie or not, for their produce. In short, our
agricultural interest smiles, our commerce is blessed, our manu-
factures flourish, and every man, in some way or other, has a
tender of a full employ, and a just compensation for his labor.

These, I think, are the generally received opinions, and our
flattering situation is justly described by many, to be owing,

462 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^T. 34.

tinder the great source of good, to the just and equal operations
of the new government, I think Congress has nothing to do, but
to pursue with fortitude the system it commenced, firmly adhere
to it, and all, I have no doubt, will terminate according to the
best wishes of those who love the government most.
I have the honor of being.

Dear Sir, with great esteem,

Your affectionate friend,

B. Lincoln.

M'HENRY TO HAMILTON.

Baltimore, 3d January, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

You may think I have neglected you from my long silence ;
but I can assure you I have never forgot you. Having with-
drawn myself from every thing of a public nature, this has led
me to endeavor to reduce my pleasures as much as possible to a
small compass, and thus to neglect many correspondents, for
whom I entertain the liveliest affection.

That I love and esteem you, I know you will believe without
my repeating it. Your career as yet has been glorious. I wish
sincerely that nothing adverse may interrupt it.

You owe this short reassurance of my regards to Captain
Baring, who has a desire to be personally known to you. I in-
troduce him with pleasure. He is a man of many valuable qual-
ities, and well known for his distinguished services during the
war. As yet, however, he is to receive his reward. I believe
he goes up to Congress with the intention to petition for commu-
tation, and the expenses incurred in his captivity.

Pray present me to Mrs. Hamilton. I have learned from a
friend of yours, that she has, as far as the comparison will hold,
as much merit as your treasurer, as you have as treasurer of the
wealth of the United States. Adieu, my dear Secretary, and be-
lieve me unchangeably yours.

^T. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 463

I approve of your bank plan. I see you have accommodated
a little ; but it is under sucb restrictions as cannot let it injure.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

Philadelphia, January IHth, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

I have learnt with infinite pain the circumstance of a new
bank having started up in your city. Its effects cannot but be
in every way pernicious. These extravagant sallies of specula-
tion do injury to the government, and to the whole system of
public credit, by disgusting all sober citizens, and giving a wild
air to every thing. 'Tis impossible but that three great banks
in one city must raise such a mass of artificial credit, as must en-
danger every one of them, and do harm in every view.

I sincerely hope that the Bank of New- York will listen to no
coalition with this newly engendered monster ; a better alliance,
I am strongly persuaded, will be brought about for it ; and the
joint force of two solid institutions, will, without effort or vio-
lence, remove the excrescence which has just appeared, and
which I consider as a dangerous tumor id your political and
commercial economy.

I express myself in these strong terms to you confidentially,
not that I have any objection to my opinion being known, as to
the nature and tendency of the thing.

Yours, with real regard, &c.

SETON TO HAMILTON.

New-York, 3d February, 1791.

Dear Sir:

The letters you intrusted to my care relating to our Senator,
were duly delivered, as you would find by the answer our friend

464 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

D wrote you ; but the point had been absolutely decided

long before. The other party had been undermining for months,
and the coalition between the Governor and Chancellor secured
the election. All your friends here lamented it, foreseeing the
impediments it would throw in your way. Some say'he will act
otherwise ; but what is bad in the bone will appear in the flesh.
I anticipate (though no politician) great opposition to every salu-
tary system.

The goldsmiths inform me, contrary to your expectation, and
contrary to what would seem reasonable, that the standard they
mean in the assays is British standard, which is eleven parts pure
gold, and one part alloy.

* * * * •3f * *

P. S. Of the last bills on Amsterdam, we have sold 81,000
guilders — hope to run off the remainder of the 200,000 in a few
days.

HAWKINS TO HAMILTON.

Senate Chamber, 16th February, 1791.

Dear Sir: »

I have just received an authentic copy of the resolutions of
the General Assembly of North Carolina, which I showed to you
in a newspaper some time past, containing, among other items, the
following instructions to the Senators from that State.

"Eesolved, That they strenuously oppose every excise and
direct taxation law, should any be attempted in Congress."

Being of opinion that the Constitution marks the line of my
duty, and that it is obligatory on my honor to make my own
judgment the ultimate standard, after paying suitable respect to
the opinions and observations of others, I have acted in con-
formity on a recent occasion.

Although it is much to be wished that a discussion of this
sort should never have happened, yet in the present case being
inevitable, a right decision is of the utmost consequence to the

^T.34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 465

Union. If tlie States have a right to instruct, why are we bound
by oath to support the Constitution ?

As no one has contributed more than yourself to the elucida-
tion of the principles of the government, I take the liberty to
request the favor of you, if you should have leisure from the im-
portant functions of your ofl&ce, to give me your opinion on this
subject.

I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, dear Sir,
Your most obedient, humble servant,

Benjamin Hawkins.

MIRANDA TO HAMILTON.

London, le 5 Avril, 1791.

MoN Cher Tresorier General :

Ayez la bonte d'agreer mes complimens, et mes respects, dans
I'occasion du depart de notre mutual ami le Col. Smith, qui a
passe quelques semaines dans cette Capitale ici; qui m'a fait
I'amitie de passer bien des moments ensemble, eta qui, j'ai eu le
plaisir de voir parfaitement accueilli par tout le monde qui I'a
connu anterieurement, et vit dans I'occasion actuelle.

II pourra vous dire I'etrange Sistheme Politique que I'Angle-

terre poursuit actuellement, &c. et je peux vous assurer que

vos Plans des finances ; de Banc National ; des Collections des
taxes, &c., non seulement ont merite I'admiration des gens de la
plus grande consideration ici ; mais ils ont donne aussi la plus
haute idee du Nouveau Gouvernement, qui se conduit a cet egard
par des principes dlionneur et de dignite tres peu communes dans
les gouvernemens modernes. Je vous en felicite de tout mon
cceur, en attendant que les progres rapides de vos institutions
produisent une prosperite generale dans ce Pais-fortune, et. votre
bonheur eternel, qui est le prix immanquable.

E 30

466 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34

Portez-vous bien toujours — donnez-moi de vos nouvelles (si
vos occupations vous le permettent), et croyez-moi sincerement,

Le Votre,

T. DE Miranda.

HAMILTON TO

Philadelphia, April 10, 1791.

Sir:

Your letter of the Stli of Marcli duly came to hand, though
not till after the arrangement for the execution of the act men-
tioned in your letter had been made.

I wish you not to consider it a mere compliment when I say
that the light in which your character stands could not fail to
have brought you into view in that arrangement. And could
you be minutely acquainted with every circumstance that in the
President's mind inclined the balance a different way, you would
find no reason to be dissatisfied with the estimation in which you
have been held. You are well aware that in a comparison of the
pretensions of men of merit collateral considerations may be often
justly allowed to turn the scale.

Suffer me to add that in the course of those future opportu.
nities which may be expected to occur, it would give me a pleas-
ure, as far as may be in my power, to be instrumental in furnish-
ing you with a proper occasion for the exercise of your talents
and zeal in the service of the national government.
With much consideration and esteem,

I have the honor to be, Sir, your obedient, &c.

Mt. 34.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 467

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, April 17, 1791.

You will probably recollect that previous to your departure
from this place, anticipating the event which has taken place
with regard to the death of Mr. Eveleigh, I took the liberty to
mention to you that Mr. Wolcott, the present auditor, would be
in every respect worthy of your consideration, as his successor
in office.

Now that the event has happened, a concern as anxious as it
was natural, for the success of the department, united with a sen-
timent of justice towards Mr. Wolcott, leads me to a repetition
of that idea. This gentleman's conduct in the station he now
fills, has been that of an excellent officer. It has not only been
good, but distinguished. It has combined all the requisites
which can be desired : moderation with firmness, liberality with
exactness, indefatigable industry with an accurate and sound dis-
cernment, a thorough knowledge of business, and a remarkable
spirit of order and arrangement. Indeed I ought to say that I
owe very much of whatever success may have attended the
merely executive operations of the department to Mr. Wolcott ;
and I do not fear to commit myself, when I add that he possesses
in an eminent degree all the qualifications desirable in a Comp-
troller of the Treasury — that it is scarcely possible to find a man
in the United States more competent to the duties of that station
than himself — few who could be equally so. It may be truly
said of him, that he is a man of rare merit, and I have good evi-
dence that he has been viewed in this light by the members of
Congress extensively, from different quarters of the Union, and
is so considered by all that part of the public who have had
opportunities of witnessing his conduct.

The immediate relation too, which his present situation
bears to that of Comptroller, is a strong argument in his favor.
Though a regular gradation of office is not admissible in a strict
sense, in regard to offices of a civil nature, and is wholly inappli-
cable to those of the first rank, (such as the heads of the great

468 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

executive departments,) yet a certain regard to the relation whicli
one situation bears to another, is consonant with the natural
ideas of justice, and is recommended by powerful considerations
of policy. The expectation of promotion in civil as in military
life, is a great stimulus to virtuous exertion, while examples of
unrewarded exertion, supported by talent and qualification, are
proportionable discouragements. Where they do not produce
resignations, they leave men dissatisfied, and a dissatisfied man
seldom does his duty well.

In a government like ours, where pecuniary compensations
are moderate, the principle of gradual advancement as a reward
for good conduct, is perhaps more necessary to be attended to,
than in others where offices are more lucrative. By due atten-
tion to it, it will operate as a means to secure respectable men
for offices of inferior emolument and consequence.

In addition to the rest, Mr. Wolcott's experience in this par-
ticular line pleads powerfully in his favor. This experience may
be dated back to his office of Comptroller of the State of Con-
necticut, and has been perfected by practice in his present place.

A question may perhaps, sir, arise in your mind, whether
some inconvenience may not attend his removal from his present
office. I am of opinion that no sensible inconvenience will be
felt on this score, since it will be easy for him as Comptroller,
who is the immediate superior of the auditor, to form any man
of business for the office he will leave, in a short period of time.
More inconvenience would be felt by the introduction of a
Comptroller not in the immediate train of the business.

Besides this, it may be observed that a degree of inconveni-
ence on this score cannot be deemed an obstacle, but upon the
principle which would bar the progress of merit from one station
to another.

On this point of inconvenience a reflection occurs, which I
think I ought not to suppress. Mr. Wolcott is a man of sensi-
bility, not unconscious of his own value, and he doubtless must
believe that he has pretensions from situation to the office.
Should another be appointed, and he resign, the derangement of
the department would truly be distressing to the public service.

iET. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 469

In suggesting thus particularly the reasons which in my mind
operate in favor of Mr. Wolcott, I am influenced by information
that other characters will be brought to your view by weighty
advocates, and as I think it more than possible that Mr. Wolcott
may not be mentioned to you by any other person than myself,
I feel it a duty arising out of my situation in the department, to
bear my full and explicit testimony to his worth, confident that
he will justify by every kind of substantial merit any mark of
your approbation which he may receive.

I trust, sir, that in thus freely disclosing my sentiments to
you, you will be persuaded that I only yield to the suggestions
of an honest zeal for the public good, and of a firm conviction,
that the prosperity of the department under my particular care,
(one so interesting to the aggregate movements of the govern-
ment,) will be best promoted by transferring the present auditor
to the office of Comptroller of the Treasury.
I have the honor to remain,

With the truest and most respectful attachment, Sir,

Your most obedient, &c.

HAMILTON TO PINTARD.

Philadelphia, April 23d. 1791.

Dear Sir :

Your letters of the 7th of December and 19th of January
have come duly to hand.

What you mention concerning manifests and certificates of
drawbacks certainly merits consideration. When the collection
law originated consuls were not yet appointed. You will oblige
me by freely intimating whatever occurs to you for the benefit
of our trade and revenue laws; whether arising from your ob-
servations on the practice of other countries, or from your own
reflections.

470 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. U.

HAMILTON TO GOODHUE.

Philadelphia, June 30th, 1791.

My dear Sir :

As Mr. Cone, who, I think, informed me he had a letter from
you on the same subject, undertook to saj all that could be said
in relation to Mr. Gray's affair, I permitted the hurry of business
to keep me silent. Nothing further concerning the affair has since
come to me, so that I am wholly ignorant what turn it may have
taken. It must have given you pleasure to learn how much the
Constitution of the United States, and the measures under it, in
which you have had so considerable an agency, have contributed
to raise this country in the estimation of Europe. According to
the accounts received here, the change which has been wrought
in the opinion of that part of the world respecting the United
States is almost wonderful. The British Cabinet wish to be
thought disposed to enter into amicable and liberal arrangements
with us. They had appointed Mr. Elliott, who on private con-
siderations had declined ; and it is affirmed from pretty good,
though not decisive authority, that they have substituted a Mr.
Hammond, and that his arrival may shortly be expected. I
would not warrant the issue, but if some liberal arrangement
with Great Britain should ensue, it will have a prodigious effect
upon the conduct of some other parts of Europe. It is, however,
most wise for us to depend as little as possible upon European
caprice, and to exert ourselves to the utmost to unfold and im-
prove every domestic resource.

In all appearance, the subscriptions to the Bank of the United
States will proceed with astonishing rapidity. It will not be sur-
prising if a week completes them.

With very great esteem and regard,

I remain, dear Sir,

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton. •

^T. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 471

HAMILTON TO BAYARD, LOW, AND BOUDINOT.

1791.

Gentlemen :

I have had a full conversation with General Schuyler on the
subject of the several propositions whidi have been under
consideration respecting the locations of the buildings for the
manufactory. My original impressions on this point have been,
confirmed by subsequent examination, and I now entertain no
doubt, that the most advisable course is to abandon for the pre-
sent the idea of a canal, and to erect the necessary buildings
near the great falls.

It is not clear to me, that the advantages of pursuing the
canal plan would at any rate compensate the differences of ex-
pense; but I think it very evident, that to attempt it, in the
first instance, would disable the company from prosecuting with
adequate means, the subsequent arrangements necessary to the
manufactory.

As to the location of the district or township, I think it ought
to comprehend the Little Falls, and the head of the navigation of
the Passaic ; and ought to embrace both sides of that river — the
whole distance between those two points. As to the rest, the
more compact it is, and consequently the more nearly in a square
the better. Many local circumstances unknown to me must de-
cide the precise form. I once thought it might be well to take
three miles by twelve on the Passaic, but on further reflection, I
see no solid advantage in such an extension in length, and there
would be an obvious convenience in a more compact form.
The police of the district, in particular, can be much better re-
gulated.

Permit me to suggest that as soon as a location is made, a
meeting of the directors ought to be called at a very short
day. Many things pass, and much will depend on going for-
ward henceforth with order and dispatch.

With very great esteem and confidence, &c.

472 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

Philadelphia, July 2d, 1791.

Mrs. Martha Walker:

Madam — Mr. Ames has conveyed to me your letter of the
9th of May.

Hitherto it has not been in my power to consider the merits
of your application to Congress, but you may be assured of its
being done so as to admit of a report at the commencement of
the ensuing session.

"While I dare not encourage any expectation, and while my
conduct must be determined by my sense of official propriety and
duty, I may with great truth say that I shall enter into the examin-
ation with every prepossession which can be inspired by favora-
ble impression of personal merit, and by a sympathetic partici-
pation in the distresses of a lady, as deserving as unfortunate.
• With great consideration, I am, Madam,

Your obedient servant,

A. H.

HAMILTON TO EUFUS KING.

July 8, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

I received your letter on a certain subject, and was obliged
by it. But there was nothing practicable by way of remedy.

The thing, as it has turned out, though good in the main,
has certainly some ill sides. There have also been faults in the
detail, which are not favorable to complete satisfaction. But
what shall we do ? 'Tis the lot of every thing human to mingle
a portion of evil with the good.

The President, as you will have seen, has returned. His
journey has done good as it regards his own impressions. He is
persuaded that the dispositions of the southern people are good,
and that certain pictures which have been drawn, have been
strongly colored by the imagination of the drawers.

^T. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 473

We have just heard from the westward, but of no event of
importance. Things are said to have been in good preparation ;
the people of Kentucky wonderfully pleased with the govern-
ment, and Scot, with a corps of ardent volunters, on their route
to demolish every savage, man, woman and child.

On Tuesday next I expect to leave this for New- York, with
Mrs. Hamilton.

Sincerely yours.

FISHER AMES TO HAMILTON".

Boston, July 81, 1791.

Dear Sir:

I gave your letter, addressed to Mrs. Warren, into the hands
of her husband, and though you inform me something pretty
was in it, I cannot believe it was a love-letter. I told him that I
was desired to subscribe for you to her poetical work. I shall
take half a dozen books, which I presume will be as much
poetry as you will consume, and will carry the compliment as
far as it will bear with any appearance of sincerity,

Mrs. Walker lives in the country ; I have sent your letter
to her. I hope your inquiries will find proper ground to allow
her petition.

You make mention of the bank in your favor of the 2d of
July. The eagerness to subscribe is a proof of the wealth and
resources of the country, and of the perfect confidence reposed
by our opulent men in the government. People here are full of
exultation and gratitude. They know who merits the praise of
it, and they are not loth to bestow it. But, with all this good
temper, many lament that the Philadelphians have engrossed so
much of the stock, and have so divided the shares as to multiply
their notes. They believe that there was management and par-
tiality in the commissioners. They wonder that of the five, the
three Philadelphians only attended. Suffer me to write unre-
servedly.

474 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

Mr. * * * * name is mentioned for President. It is said
that he is President of the North American Bank ; that his name
will be useful to the circulation, that his appointment would quiet
— perhaps destroy a faction in the city. Allow me to state the
other side of the question. They urge here, that the President
ought to be free from all suspicion of management — above the
influence of favorites — that Mr. Morris, whom they fear as a man
of talents and intrigue, with his connections, will make a property
of this man, and govern him at their pleasure. I fear that his
appointment would create a faction here. His friends will not
pretend that he has talents to make him worth forcing upon the
stockholders in the eastern quarter. An idea that the bank will
be hazarded by partiality to men who will make desperate specu-
lations, would be a bad one to get a currency. The President
and Directors should be solid and fair. I only wish to have you
possessed of the fact, that our prudent and respectable stock-
holders will entertain the opinions I have suggested ; and I leave
it to your judgment whether Mr. ^ * * * is a proper man for
President.

If the bank would do business for five per cent., they would
do a great deal more, and with safer people. They would over-
power the State banks by giving borrowers better terms. I have
had my fears that the State banks will become unfriendly to that
of the United States ; causes of hatred and rivalry will abound,
the State banks will narrow the business of the United States
Bank, and may become dangerous instruments in the hands of
State partisans, who may have had points to carry. I will not
expatiate. The occasion is a favorable one. The Bank and the
United States Government at this moment possess more popu-
larity than any institution or government can maintain for a long
time. Perhaps no act of power can be done to destroy the State
banks, but if they are willing to become interested individually,
I mean the State stockholders, and to establish sub-banks, so as to
absorb the funds and contract the business of the local banks, why
should any measures be adopted to support the local banks to
the prejudice of my hypothesis? or why should cold water be
thrown upon the plan of sub-banks ? Mr. * * * * and the Phila-

^T. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE, 475

delphians are thought unfriendly to this idea, perhaps it may be
attended with some hazard ; but if it must fail, let it not be
charged to local prejudice, but to solid reason.

I have lately conversed with a judicious, respectable friend,
on the subject of the bank in this town. The justness of his sen-
timents, or their coincidence with my own, induced me to re-
quest his ideas in writing. He has complied, and I inclose them.
They were the offspring of a moment, and were intended for me
only. You will read them with due allowance for the manner
of their production.

The success of the government of the United States, and es-
pecially of the measures proceeding from your department, has
astonished the multitude ; and while it has shut the mouths, it
has stung the envious hearts of the State leaders. All the influ-
ence of the moneyed men ought to be wrapped up in the Union,
and in one bank. The State banks may become the favorites of
the States. They, the latter, will be pressed to emulate the ex-
ample of the Union, and to show their sovereignty by a parade
of institutions, like those of the nation. I intended to be concise,
and by writing in haste I have been lengthy.

The distillers have answered a letter from New- York, desir-
ing them to shut up their distilleries, &c., with proper disappro-
bation. Some increase of the duty on West India spirits, and
some amendment of the excise system, I presume would be pro-
per. It is what they expect, and their late conduct has a claim
to merit.

Your plan relating to manufactories is not yet generally
known here. I think it will be popular. Have you any objec-
tion to a similar incorporation in ISTcav England ? Some object
that agriculture better merits encouragement, and that domestic
manufactories will be injured by the Company. I do not think
these topics unanswerable.

I regret it, that when the funding act passed, the stock had
not been declared free from tax. Some inconvenience and vex-
ation, I fear, will spring from this neglect. The assessors are in
some places disposed to pry into the entries at the custom-house,
and the loan office books.

4T6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

I write, — meaning that you only should read, — but I am not
sure that the sentiments deserve your perusal. I will not desire
an answer. I know your time is occupied sufficiently.
I am, dear Sir, with sentiments of esteem and regard.
Your very obedient humble servant,

Fisher Ames.

HAMILTON TO KING.

August 7th, 1791.

Your letter of Monday evening has a good deal tranquillized
me. I am glad to learn that the mischiefs from the over use of
scrip are not likely to be very extensive.

I observe what you say respecting the quotation of my
opinion. I was not unaware of the delicacy of giving any, and
was sufficiently reserved until I perceived the extreme to which
bank scrip, and with it other stock, was tending. But when I
saw this, I thought it advisable to speak out — for a bubble con-
nected with any operation is, of all the enemies I have to fear,
in my judgment the most formidable — and not only not to pro-
mote, but as far as depends on me, to counteract delusions, appears
to me to be the only secure foundation on which to stand. I
thought it expedient, therefore, to risk something in contributing
to dissolve the charm. But I find that I have been misquoted.
Speaking of sales on time at seventy-four shillings for 6 per cent.,
&c., I think it probable I may have intimated an opinion that
they went faster than could be supported. But it is untrue that
I have given as a standard prices below those of the market, as
mentioned by you. On the contrary, my standard, on pretty
mature reflection, has been and is nearly as follows : —

For bank scrip 195

' 6 per cents 22

3 per cents ...... 12

Deferred 12 8

^T. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 477

I proceed on the idea of 5 per cent interest — taking at tlie same
time into calculation the partial irredeemdbility of the 6 per cents.
I give you mj standard that you may be able, if necessary,
to contradict insinuations of an estimation on my part short of
that standard — for the purpose of depressing the funds.
Yours, sincerely and affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

Philadelphia, August 16th, 1791.

I send you herewith an official letter ; this private one I write
as explanatory of it. I hardly expect that you will be able to
procure the debt within the limits prescribed, and yet I do not
know what effect the imprudent speculations in bank scrip may
produce. A principal object with me is to keep the stock from
falling too low in case the embarrassments of the dealers should
lead to sacrifices ; whence you will infer that it is not my wish
that the purchases should be below the prescribed limits, yet if
such should unfortunately be the state of the market, it must of
course govern. The limits assigned for the purchases of 3 per
cents and deferred debt are founded on a calculation of the gov-
ernment rate of interest being 5 per cent ; the same rule has not
been extended to the stock bearing an immediate interest of 6 per
cent, because the government have a right to redeem it at par
in certain proportions ; and though to individual purchasers it is
worth more than par, because a part only can be redeemed, yet
it is not at present the interest of the government to give more
than par for it, because of the right to redeem a part. Indeed,
the law limits the commissioners in this particular. You will
recollect that the act requires that the purchases should be made
openly; this has been construed to mean by a known agent,
for the public : when you make a purchase, therefore, it will be
proper that it should be understood that it is on account of the

478 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |^t. 34.

United States, but this need not precede the purchase ; and it
will be best that there should be no unnecessary demonstration,
lest it should raise hopes beyond what will be realized.

HAMILTON TO DUER.

Philadelphia, August 17th, 1791.

My dear Friend:

I have received your two letters of the 12th and 10th.

The subscription-book for the Manufacturing Society did not
remain with me nor with either of the twp gentlemen who came
on with me. Is it with neither of those who accompanied you ?
If it is not, it must have been left at Brunswick, and you will do
well to write to some trusty person there to look it up and send
it to you. I am impatient for the alterations which were agreed
upon, and a list of the subscribers.

La Roche may go to Scioto, if he can be back in the time you
mention.

I fear that in the hurry of writing my letter on the subject
of bank scrip, I must have expressed myself more strongly than
was intended.

The conversation here was, " Bank scrip is getting so high
as to become a bubble," in one breath ; in another, " 'Tis a South
Sea dream ;" in a third, " There is a combination of knowing ones
at New- York to raise it as high as possible by fictitious purchases,
in order to take in the credulous and ignorant ;" in another, " Duer,
Constable, and some others, are mounting the balloon as fast as
possible — if it don't soon burst thousands will rue it," &c., &c.

As to myself, my friend, I think I know you too well to sup-
pose you capable of such views as were implied in those innuen-
does or to harbor the most distant- thought that you could wander
from the path either of public good or private integrity. But I
will honestly own, I had serious fears for you — for your purse
and for your reputation ; and with an anxiety for both I wrote to

;Et. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 479

you in earnest terms. You are sanguine, my friend. You ought
to be aware of it yourself, and to be on your guard against the
propensity. I feared lest it might carry you further than was
consistent either with your own safety or the public good. My
friendship for you, and my concern for the public cause, were
both alarmed. If the infatuation had continued progressive, and
any extensive mischiefs had ensued, you would certainly have
had a large portion of the blame. Conscious of this, I wrote to
you in all the earnestness of apprehensive friendship.

I do not widely differ from you about the real value of bank
scrip. I should rather call it about 190 to be within bounds,
with hopes of better things, and I sincerely wish you may be able
to support it at what you mention. The acquisition of too much
of it by foreigners will certainly be an evil.

Yours, sincerely and affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

Wm. Duer, Esq.

PEAKSON TO HAMILTON.

Cambridge, September 10th, 1791.

Sir:

I feel myself happy in the honor of acquainting a gentle-
man of Mr. Hamilton's merited distinction, that the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences has elected him a Fellow ; of
which the instrument herewith transmitted is a certificate, exe-
cuted in the usual form.

With sentiments of highest esteem,

I have the honor to be, &c.

480 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34

SETON TO HAMILTON.

New-York, September 12th, 1791.

Dear Sir:

I had the pleasure to receive your letter of the 7th by Mr.
Eddie on Friday morning, but not early enough to answer you
with propriety by that post. The bearer of the letter I appre-
hend knew or conjectured the contents, as it flew over the town
like wildfire that I had orders to purchase. Therefore, before
I got to the coffee-house, at noon, every one was prepared, and
no one would offer to supply at less than the former price. I
thought it prudent to accept at that ; and, to diffuse the benefit,
I divided the purchases into 5,000 dollar lots, and held them at
that, so long as to give every one a chance ; and be assured it
has been a very great relief. Scrip, since I wrote you last, has
been down to 110, and great sacrifices made. Saturday and
to-day they have gone at 135 to 145, and rather bear the appear-
ance of rising. They are now getting into the pro]3er hands,
and I have no doubt will soon come up to their real value, if the
price of the other funds can be now and then supported by
your purchases. You have the blessings of thousands here;
and I feel gratified, more than I can express, at being the dis-
penser of your benevolence.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, October lltb, 1791.

Sir:

Lord Wycomb having mentioned to me his intentions to
pay you his respects at Mount Vernon, I beg your permission
to present him to you.

The personal acquirements and merits of his lordship con-
spire, with a consideration for the friendly dispositions and lib-

^T.34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 481

eral policy of his father, the Marquis of Lansdown, towards this
country, to constitute a claim in his favor to cordial notice.
I have the honor to be,

With the most respectful attachment, &c.

FRY TO HAMILTON.

London, November 2d, 1791.

Dear Sir :

The interest you must necessarily take in all information
relative to the state of American credit in Europe — having so
essentially contributed to its establishment — induces me to com-
municate some facts, which, from peculiar circumstances, I am.
possibly better acquainted with than most others. The Ameri-
can funds had inspired no confidence in this market, till thej
had acquired a high price at home ; and three months ago, a sale
of them must have been effected here with the greatest difficulty..
The case is now so materially altered, that one friend of mine
has bought and sold nearly a million of dollars — chiefly 6 per
cent, stock — and another about half that amount, at prices
gradually increasing from 98 to 120 per cent. ; which latter
price, when exchange is at 175 per cent, in Philadelphia, is
equal to 2os. Three per cents have also risen, and are now at
from 72 to 75 per cent. ; and it appears to me that no fluctua-
tions in America will have any essential influence on the rates
in this market, whilst the sources of revenue on which the
interest depends remain productive and secure. The orders
from France for American stock in London, would, indeed,
much enhance the present price, had not such unfavorable ac-
counts of stock been lately received in Philadelphia ; neverthe-
less, the price does not sink, because nobody here knows what
to do with money. If it be an object with you, sir, now the
funds bear so fair a price, to promote the sale of them here, that
the incumbered landholder in America may eventually feel the
E 31

482 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

benefit of that capital which, in this city, is superabundant and
unproductive, it can easily be effected by any plan for the pay-
ment in London of interest on them, which shall be known, as I
hinted to Mr. Tench Coxe, to be honored with your patronage.
This view may also be promoted by facilitating foreign transfers.
"When I left Philadelphia, in August last, I had heard much of
the little value of money in this, my native city ; but the facts
which, since my arrival, have come to my immediate knowledge,
have, neverthless, surprised me. The market rate of interest is
really before 4 per cent. ; and for any uncertain periods, money
will scarcely command 2^ per cent, per annum. All the Ameri-
can stock in Holland is effectually locked up from sale, by de-
posits as security for loans, notes for which are circulated, with
private engagements for the interest, that command 130 per
cent. The plans on which these loans have been obtained are
various, but all immensely advantageous to those who purchased
certificates, and borrowed, in this way, to continue their pur-
chases. I have sent some considerable orders to Philadelphia
for stock, and besides have offered, whilst I remain in London,
to sell for those friends of mine who wish it, at a half per
cent, commission, which I hope will contribute to relieve the
American market.

I shall be very sorry if this short address trespass too much
on the time you so advantageously employ in the service of our
country, to the real aggrandizement of your ministerial reputa-
tion at home and abroad. A desire to communicate serviceable
information, if in my power, is my sole motive for writing. I
shall not return to settle in Philadelphia before June next. If
any thing very important on these subjects should occur, I may
still take the liberty of hazarding intrusion on a moment of your
leisure.

I am, with the highest personal respect, &c.

vEt.34.] correspondence. 483

DAYIE TO HAMILTON.

Halifax, N. C, Nov. 17, 1791.

Sik:

I mentioned to my friend, Judge Iredell, when I -saw him
last at Newbern, my intention of moving our next assembly to
address Congress on tbe subject of receiving onr paper money in
the revenue of the United States collected in this State, and re-
quested him to have a conversation with you on the business,
that I might avail myself of your opinion of its propriety and
success.

This measure has been suggested to me by the objections
that are made here to the collection of excise in specie ; the real
difficulty with which I foresee it will be attended ; and its certain
operation on the value or exchange of our paper currency. But
independent of the policy and convenience of such a measure, I
think the State may very well require it of Congress as a matter
of justice. The first emission of this money was made for the
express purpose of paying the Continental line ; the second, to
purchase tobacco to pay the interest of the federal debt ; and to
answer these purposes more effectually, both emissions were made
a tender in discharge of private contracts, and have been so
received. It is also to be observed that both these emissions,
amounting to two hundred thousand pounds, were made several
years before the constitution was formed, and that this encum-
brance made a part of our political situation at its adoption, and
had grown out of the old confederation. So that, leaving this
State to struggle with the task of supporting the credit of this
money, even against the measures of Congress, surely has the
appearance of great injustice, especially after a general assump-
tion of the State debts.

The effects of such a measure would, I am certain, be highly
beneficial to the people of this country, and I think not injuri-
ous to the general government. The paper money which is now
generally at ten shillings to the dollar, would rise instantly to
par^ a benefit the people would attribute to its proper cause.

484 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 34.

The commercial part of the State would be relieved from great
and very distressing difficulties, and the demand for specie,
created by the duties, would no longer operate injuriously on
the value of our paper money. It would effectually remove
the only rational ground of complaint made against the excise
in the interior and western parts of the State ; that is, the diffi-
culty, or, as they say, the impossibility of procuring specie suffi-
cient to pay that tax, and would also prevent a very delicate and
perhaps dangerous question that must otherwise soon arise on
executions issuing from the federal court. These appear to me
as objects of some moment, and, I take it, form only a part of
the good consequences of this measure.

There are not more than £140,000 now in circulation, the
balance having been taken up by the sinking fund and de-
stroyed, and as the money would certainly rise to par, I think
the federal treasury would run little risk in receiving it ; and I
cannot prevail upon myself to entertain the idea that the general
government is so unwieldy a machine as to be incapable of being
accommodated to the interests and situations of the different
States.

Our Assembly meet at Newbern the first Monday of De-
cember, and should you think proper to write to me on this sub-
ject, you will please to direct to me at that place. I would un-
dertake that the State shall give the most satisfactory assurances
that the sinking fund tax shall be continued, and that the As-
sembly will pass any other law that might be necessary to secure
the Treasury of the United States.

I know very well that gentlemen in official situations are in
the habit of respecting no communication but such as wears the
garb of confidence or office. I have no claim to either footing,
and was I not well persuaded, even from the slight acquaintance
I have with you, that you possess a mind of a very different cast,
I should not have troubled you with this letter.
I have the honor to be,

With great respect,

Your most obedient,

William Davie.

iEx. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 485

FITZGERALD TO HAMILTON,

Alexandria, Nov. 21, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

It is with great reluctance I write you, particularly as Con-
gress is sitting, and I am satisfied you have full employment for
every moment of your time ; yet I cannot forbear soliciting your
kind assistance in favor of establishing a Branch of the National
Bank in this town, to effect which a memorial is forwarded to the
Directors, stating some of the advantages which would result to
the public from it.

I flatter myself, that from the Collector's returns made to you,
the importance of our trade will justify us in this request. Add
to this, that within these last twelve months we have had a very
great accession of inhabitants. The improvements, made and
making, for the accommodation and safety of shipping, are very
considerable, and no town in the United States has a more ex-
tensive and fertile back country for its support. These reasons,
joined with what is set forth in the memorial, will, I hope, induce
you to think with me, that a Branch of the Bank, established
here, will afford benefit to the public, as well as to that part of
the community more immediately connected with the place ; and
be assured, that were not these my real sentiments, I would not,
(interested as I am in the event,) request you to support the
measure. If time permits I shall be happy in a line from you on
this subject.

Believe me to be, with unfeigned regard and esteem, .
Dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

John Fitzgerald.

486 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

November 25, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

I seize the first moment of leisure to answer your letter of
the 21st inst. Strange as it may appear to yon, it is not more
strange than true, that the whole affair of Branches was begun, con-
tinued, and ended, not only without my participation, but against
my judgment.

When I say against my Judgment, you will not understand
that my opinion was given and over-ruled, for I never was con-
sulted ; but, that the steps taken were contrary to my private
opinion of the course which ought to have been pursued.

I am sensible of the inconveniences to be apprehended, and I
regret them, but I do not know that it will be in my power to
avert them.

Ultimately, it will be incumbent on me to place the public
funds in the keeping of the Branch ; but it may he depended upon^
that I shall ^precipitate nothing, but shall so conduct the transfer
as not to embarrass or distress your institution. I have not time
to say more at present, except that if there are finally to be two
institutions, my regard" for you makes me wish you may feel
yourself at liberty to take your fortune with the Branch which
must preponderate.

With great regard,

I remain yours, &c.,

A. K

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

December 18th, 1791.

It is well stated by a gentleman who has examined the sub-
ject, that in 1784, the British government having taken mea-
sures for drawing over to their service the whale fishermen of

JEt. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE, 487

the United States, the government of France at once saw the
danger of suffering her great maritime rival to acquire the ad-
vantage of 4 or 5000 excellent seamen, and with them an art of
immense value in marine consideration, (as the nursery of sailors,)
which they possessed almost exclusively.

France, therefore, did not hesitate to arrest these proceedings,
by giving informal but strong assurances that if the whale
fishermen would, but for a moment, resist the temptations held
out by the English, their friends in France would soon procure
for them advantages superior to those they were required to re-
fuse. Accordingly, liberal bounties in money, accompanied with
other allurements, were offered to those persons who would re-
move from the United States to Dunkirk, and from thence carry
on the whale fishery.

This measure at first did not have all the effect expected from
it, and rather than hazard the immigrationof the fishermen to the
dominions of Britain, it was thought expedient to create in
France a market for the produce of the whale fishery of the Uni-
ted States. This has been of much benefit to us ; but partly from
the fluctuating policy of France toward us, and partly from the
excessive premiums she gives to her own vessels, it is to be feared
that her whale fishery will be eventually established on the ruins
of ours. Already, this business has extended itself considerably
at Dunkirk, and the enormous profits which have been made by
the aid of public bounties, cannot fail to draw from the United
States many more adventurers.

France is undoubtedly an important market for tobacco, rice,
lumber, oil, and occasionally for some other articles; but the
ordinance of the National Assembly requiring that after October,
'91, tobacco in American ships should pay 6i livres per quintal
duty more than in French ships, (equal to near double freight,)
and determining also that after that period, American built ves.
sels cannot be sold to the citizens of France, must render our
trade to that country, in our own bottoms, comparatively small.

In the course of the late war, France opened the ports of her
colonies to foreign ships. These very soon engrossed a large
share of their trade, and soon after the peace an arret of the

488 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 34.

Council of State was passed, restricting the intercourse between
those colonies and strangers. The precise intent and effect of this
first public regulation after the peace is not within my present
recollection, and I have no authority to which I can recur; but
soon after it (in 1784) another arret was published, which estab-
lished in each of the Windward Islands one port, and in Hispa-
niola three ports, to which foreign vessels might have free access
with fish, lumber, live stock, rice, Indian corn, salted beef, (but
not pork,) vegetables of a certain kind, hides, peltry, tar, and
turpentine, but no other commodities ; the duty on fish to be three
livres per quintal, and on salted beef three livres per barrel, and
on all these commodities such local duties as might be imposed
in the Islands, beside an established one per cent, on the value.

In return, and as payment for these commodities, molasses
and rum of the islands, and goods previously imported from France,
are the only articles allowed to be brought away.

Several years after the second arret a third passed, which
raised the duty on salted beef to a dollar per barrel, and on fish
to a dollar per quintal ; and at all times a sum equal to the duty
per quintal imposed on foreign fish, was given as a bounty on
each quintal of fish of the French fisheries.

Although some important products of the United States are
excluded by the arrets or standing laws, yet the pressing wants
of the colonists have occasionally induced a suspension of those
laws in relation to particular articles ; but so versatile has been
the conduct of the French government in this part of their ad-
ministration, that the people of the United States have some*
times suffered exceedingly, though perhaps oftener profited by
these temporary indulgences. Since the commencement of the
revolution in France, and partly in consequence of scarcity
there, the colonists have been obliged to take from the United
States large supplies of flour, and some other items not usually
admitted.

The importance of the French West India market for the
fish of the United States, will appear from observing, that nearly
one-half of the whole fish is consumed there. Should this ad-
vantage be lost, the fishery would be almost, if not quite ruined.

^T.34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 489

The molasses received from the French islands is an excel-
lent payment for what they buy of us, but it may be noted that
this article has been raised to its value and consequence as an
object of commerce chiefly, if not altogether, by the people of
the United States ; it was not thought to be worth saving by
the French planters until the Anglo-Americans became its pur-
chasers and created a demand for it. At the commencement of
the molasses trade with the French it was bought by the tierce,
supposed to measure sixty gallons, or by the hogshead, supposed
to contain one hundred : the New England people at that time
used to receive upwards of ninety gallons for a tierce, and one
hundred and fifty for a hogshead ; so little was it valued by the
planters, that they for a long time submitted to this imposition
in the measure.

It has been much complained of, that at Cape Frangois bonds
are required before a vessel is allowed to trade, with such sure-
ties as cannot be had, unless the captain pays an extravagant
commission on his whole cargo, to some merchant of the place,
whether he needs any other aid of such merchant or not. What
share of this abuse, or whether any, is chargeable to the govern-
ment, I am unable to say ; or whether it extends to the other
ports of Hispaniola, I am uncertain ; but I think it does.

I am not able to discern any essential difference of principh
between the French and English colonial systems ; both aim at
a monopoly of their trade, but neither can effect it perfectly with-
out ruining the colony ; each, therefore, relaxes occasionally in
some points, and constantly in others, according to the necessity
of the case. Both nations admit nearly the same commodities,
except that France takes fish and refuses flour, while England
takes flour and refuses fish.

England being more solicitous, as well as more able to carry
the supplies of her colonies than she is to furnish them, insists
only on being the carrier. France being unable to carry the re-
quisite supplies of her colonies, insists only on furnishing them
so far as she can, and permits others to supply whatever of prime
necessity she cannot supply herself

The English reserve the exclusive right of carrying the com-

490 HAMILTON' vS WORKS. [^t. 34.

modities their colonists need from the United States, but they
impose no duty on the importation of the commodities them-
selves.

The French allow foreigners to carry certain commodities
which their colonies need, but they impose a duty on the most
valuable of those commodities, greater than the whole freight or
price of carriage is worth.

The French colonies are, I believe, more extensive than the
English ; but if the French had not from necessity taken some
things which they legally prohibited, it may be doubted whether
the exports of the United States to the British West Indies, would
not equal the exports to the French West Indies.

Some unavoidable business, and some unavoidable dissipa-
tions, have prevented me, till this moment, from obeying your
commands. Upon a review of what I have written, 'tis some
consolation in seeing how unimportant the information is, that
you have lost nothing by the delay.

Yours,

George Cabot.

TEEPLANCK TO HAMILTON.

New-York, 29th December, 1791.

Sir:

A number of your fellow-citizens, desirous of expressing the
sense they entertain of the important services you have ren-
dered your country, have raised by subscription a sum of money
to defray the expense of a portrait of you, to be executed by
Mr. Trumbull, and placed in one of our public buildings.

We have therefore to request that you will be so condescend-
ing as to allow Mr, Trumbull to wait upon you for the above
purpose, at such time as will suit your conveniency ; and will
also be pleased to permit the representation to exhibit such part
of your political life as may be most agreeable to yourself.

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 491

We have the honor to be, with perfect sentiments of esteem
and respect, your most humble servants,

GuLiAisr Verplanck, "]

EoGER Alden,

Brockholst Livingston, )- Coinmittee,

J. Waddington,

Carlile Pollock,

HAMILTON TO VERPLANCK AND OTHERS.

Philadelphia, January 15, 1792.

Gentlemen :

The mark of esteem, on the part of fellow-citizens, to whom
I am attached by so many ties, which is announced in your letter
of the 29th of December, is entitled to my affectionate acknow-
ledgments,

I shall cheerfully obey their wish as far as respects the taking
of my portrait, but I ask that they will permit it to appear un-
connected with any incident of my political life. The simple re-
presentation of their fellow-citizen and friend will best accord
with my feelings.

With true esteem and consideration,

I have the honor to be, gentlemen, &c.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

Philadelphia, January 24, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I feel great satisfaction in knowing from yourself that your
institution rejects the idea of a coalition with the new project^
or rather hydra of projects.

492 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 35.

I shall labor to give what has taken place a turn favorable to
another union, the propriety of which is, as you say, clearly
illustrated by the present state of things. It is my wish that the
Bank of New- York may, by all means, continue to receive de-
posits from the Collector, in the paper of the Bank of the United
States, and that they may also receive payment for the Dutch
bills in the same paper. This paper may either be remitted to
the Treasurer or remain in the Bank, as itself shall deem most
expedient. I have explicitly directed the Treasurer to forbear
drawing on the Bank of New-York, without special direction
from me. And my intention is, to leave you in possession of all
the money you have or may receive till I am assured that the
present storm is effectually weathered.

Every body here sees the propriety of your having refused
the paper of the Bank of the United States in such a crisis of
your affairs. Be confidential with me — if you are pressed, what-
ever support may be in my power shall be afforded. I consider
the public interest as materially involved in aiding a valuable
institution like yours to withstand the attacks of a confederated
host of frantic, and, I fear, in too many instances, unprincipled
gamblers.

Adieu. Heaven take care of good men and good views !
Yours, &c.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

New-York, Sunday, Jan. 29th, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

Your favor of the 24th instant, I received yesterday. I shall
embrace the first moment which offers, and in which I can pru-
dently be absent from hence, to pay you a visit.

The bank mania has somewhat subsided ; but as in the first
paroxysm the leaders induced many to subscribe a petition
to the legislature for an incorporation, the pride of some and

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 493

the interested views of others will not permit them to relinquish
the object. What fate will attend the application in the House
of Assembly is problematical — but I am almost certain that in the
Senate it will not meet with countenance. It is, however, prudent
to be prepared with every objection, and I wish you to state
those that have occurred to you.

I have been pressed by several persons to draft a bill for the
future conduct of the Commissioners of the Land Office, in the
preamble to which they wish to convey a censure on the board,
for their conduct in the sale to Mr. Macomb. Considering a
measure of this kind as a two-edged sword, I have advised that
if even it were proper, it would not be prudent until matters of
much importance to the State had been decided upon, and that
the business should be postponed for further consideration. This
advice was acceded to, but with so much reluctance, that I am
under apprehensions that it will be precipitated.

Mr. Kensselaer is arrived ; has received the letter you men-
tion. Before I left Albany some intimations were given of the
project you mention, and I was alarmed, as Mr. Yates had some
little time before observed to me that he apprehended his pecu-
niary affairs would be injured if he was placed in the chair of
Government. I obviated the difficulties he stated ; observed that
the mere intimation that he doubted of the propriety of being
proposed as a candidate, would be injurious to his reputation, in-
tensely distressing to those who had supported him on the
former occasion, and who had already committed themselves with
great numbers of the citizens. He seemed convinced, and from
what he has since said to Mr. Eensselaer, and the exertions he
makes with the council of appointment in favor of persons who
are unfriendly to Clinton, and whom he declares ivill use their
influence to carry the election in his favor, I am led to believe
that he will not yield to Mr. Burr's views. I shall, however, in
a day or two bring him to an explicit declaration on the subject.

As no good could possibly result from evincing any resent-
ment to Mr. Burr for the part he took last winter, 1 have on
every occasion behaved towards him as if he had not been the
principal in the business.

494 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

If I cannot speedily visit you, I shall send on Cornelia, who
is anxious to be with you and her sister.
My love to Eliza and the children.

Yours, affectionately, &c.,

Ph. Schuyler.

LEDTARD TO HAMILTON.

New-York, February 1st, 1792.

Dear Sir:

On my arrival here, finding that a tide was likely to make
strongly for Mr. Burr, I grew more anxious, on the grounds
whicli I had the honor to converse with you about in Philadel-
phia. I talked with several of our common friends, but with
none confidentially, excepting General Schuyler, who, with the
same confidence, was pleased to inform me of the circumstance
of Mr. Yates resigning his pretensions. Mr. Schuyler concluded
to have an interview with you, and to let the determination of
Mr. Yates remain a secret until his return.

Mr. Yates, it is probable, will feel much inclined to return
the favor which he has received from your friends, in affording
his support to the candidate which they may propose; but
against this, it is to be calculated that supporting Mr. Burr will
best please most of his ancient friends, and tend to restore him
to their confidence, and also that the candidate in question has a
personal dominion over him. Mr. Schuyler supposes, that if
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Burr were to be the only competitors, and
his friends thrown out of the scale, it would be doubtful which
succeeded. To oppose Mr. B. with success, your friends will be
necessitated to promote the interest of the old incumbent, which
might be considered a dereliction of sentiment ; and to cherish
the hopes of a third candidate, will probably be to lose a
triumph.

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 495

If B. finally succeeds, and you have not tlie merit of it, it
will be an event extremely disagreeable to me. With this im-
pression, I have sought repeated interviews with him, until I
could procure from him an artless declaration of his sentiments,
both with respect to the Union, on present grounds, and also
with respect to you.

He has expressed a sincere regard for the safety and well-
being of the former. With respect to yourself, he expresses an
entire confidence in the wisdom and integrity of your designs,
and a real personal friendship, and which he does not seem to
suppose you doubt of, or that you ever will, unless it may arise
from meddling interveners.

Unless you have grounds of objection which I do not know
of, I ardently wish that the result of your interview with Gen-
eral Schuyler may be an adoption of the candidate.
I am.

With entire respect and esteem.

Your very obd't humble serv't,

Isaac Ledyard.

WATSON TO HAMILTON".

New-York, February 2d, 1792.

Sir:

The nature of my business has allowed me but a few leisure
moments since my return to this place. I called pretty early,
and repeatedly, on General Schuyler, but have not had the good
fortune to fi-nd him at home; if I had, I am not sufficiently
known to him, to expect his confidential communications on a
subject so delicate as that of the approaching election.

Knowing that truth and the public good engage all your
attention, and govern all your actions, it may serve as an apology
for my suggesting the observations I have made, and the infer-
ences that result. So far then as I have been able to collect
opinions, there is some prospect that the gentleman alluded to in

496 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

our last interview, may at all events be preferred to the govern-
ment ; and in case it was thought expedient to give him the
federal interest, the probability would be strong.

If that interest is denied him, and he succeeds, will it not
make him an enemy, if he is not one now ? If he is refused this
support, and fails, will he not return to the Senate of the United
States, embittered against the government and its ablest advo-
cates ? — a circumstance the more to he regretted in the present irrita-
ble state of the Legislature and body politic. If this aid is given him,
and he fails, will it not serve to moderate his conduct, or rather
to bind him by the ties of interest and gratitude to his support-
ers ? If it could be possible that he should absolve himself from
these ties, would not the ingratitude and atrocity of the act di-
minish his power of doing harm, and make all future opposition
to him equally just and popular? You will have the goodness
to recollect, that these remarks are founded upon the presump-
tion that Judge Yates chooses not to be a candidate, and that he
will resign his pretensions with most satisfaction to the character
in question.

This I am assured is the fact, without which I should not
have troubled you with these remarks.

Whenever I imagine how much easier it is to embarrass and
obstruct the benign operations of government, than to give it
the requisite tone and vigor, I am solicitous to remove talents,
perseverance, and address, as far from the opposition as possible.
I have omitted to urge any positive good that may result from
this measure, although I am strongly persuaded that a very great
one may accrue.

The absence of evil will continue to be desirable, until the
public mind becomes more quiet, and federal habits take deeper
root. I shall only add, that the cautious distance observed by
this gentleman towards all parties, however exceptionable in a
politician, may be a real merit in a Governor.

I have the honor to be, with perfect truth and esteem,
Your most humble servant,

James Watson.

Mt.35.] correspondence. 497

LEDTARD TO HAMILTON".

New-York, February 28th, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

The inclosed was left witli Mr. Hazard to forward, but was
carelessly mislaid or forgotten. I do not recollect the contents,
but well recollect the impression under which it was written, and
that the design must have been to prevent drawn swords. I
shall be able, in a few days, to convince you that on election

grounds you need not be the enemy of Mr. , and hope

nothing else will disturb the operation of the experiment I
should have admired the candor and firm integrity which dic-
tated your letter, had it been received from almost any other
person. It afforded me no new subject of pleasure or contempla-
tion, coming from whence it did. It is probable that by next
Sunday I may be able to give you the satisfaction herein inti-
mated.

I am, most respectfully in all things.

Your assured friend and obedient servant,

Isaac Ledyard.

PAGE TO HAMILTON.

March 22d, 1792.

Dear Sir:

I have snatched a few minutes from my business, to scribble
an answer to the author of the letter which I delivered to you in
the presence of Colonel Hartley. I have inclosed it for your
perusal, according to my promise, and hope it will serve as a
proof to you that I disdain to be an accomplice in a cabal
against you, and convince Mr. Blanchard that he has mistaken,
my character.

I am, dear Sir,

With real esteem and perfect respect, &c.
E 32

498 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

HAMILTON TO DUER.

Philadelphia, March 14, 1792.

My Dear Duer:

Your letter of the lltli got to hand this day. I am affected
beyond measure at its contents, especially as it was too late to
have any influence upon the event you were apprehensive of,
Mr. Wolcott's instructions having gone off yesterday.

I trust, however, the alternative which they present to the
attorney of the , and the discretion he will use in manag-

ing the affair, will enable you to avoid any pernicious eclat, if
your affairs are otherwise retrievable.

Be this as it may, act '^i\h fortitude and honor. If you cannot
reasonably hope for a favorable extrication, do not plunge deeper.
Have the courage to make a full stop. Take all the care you can
in the first place of institutions of public utility, and in the next
of all fair creditors.

God bless you, and take care of you and your family. I have
experienced all the bitterness of soul on your account which a
warm attachment can inspire. I will not now pain you with any
wise remarks, though if you recover the present stroke, I shall
take great liberties with you. Assure yourself, in good and bad
fortune, of my sincere friendship and affection.

Adieu.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

Philadelphia, March 25, 1792.
If six per cents should sink below par, you may purchase on
account of the United States at par to the extent of fifty thou-
sand dollars. You will not, however, declare on whose account
you act, because, though there is, as to a purchase on that prin-

^T.35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 499

ciple, no difference of opinion among the trustees, the thing is
not formally arranged, and this is Sunday,

It will be very probably conjectured that you appear for the
public, and the conjecture may be left to have its course, but
without confession. The purchase ought, in the present state of
things, to be at auction, and not till to-morrow evening. But if
the purchase at auction will not tend as well to the purpose of
relief as a different mode, it may be departed from ; the usual
note must be made of persons, time, &c. You will consider
whether done all at once, or a part now and a part then, will
best answer the purpose ; in the state of this market, the latter
mode is found preferable. I have just received a letter from Mr,
Short, our minister resident, dated Amsterdam, 28th December,
by which he informs me that he has effected a loan for three
millions of florins at four per cent, interest, on account of the
United States. This may be announced ; and as, in the present
moment of suspicion, some minds may be disposed to consider
the thing as a mere expedient to support the stocks, I pledge
my honor for its exact truth. Why then so much despondency
among the holders of our stock? When foreigners lend the
United States at four per cent., will they not purchase here upon
a similar scale, making reasonable allowance for expense of
agency, &c, ? Why then do individuals part with so good a
property so much below its value ? Does Duer's failure affect
the soliditj^ of the government ?

After paying the present quarter's interest, I shall have near
a million of dollars in cash, and a million more in bonds from
the duties of last year. All this is truly so much before-hand.
The duties for the current year being fully adequate to the ob-
jects of the year, except the further sum of about five hundred
thousand dollars for the western expedition, for which the ways
and means have been proposed. Is the treasury of Great Britain
comparatively in so good a state? Is the nation comparatively
so equal to its debt ? Why then so much depression ? I shall
be answered, the immediate necessity for money. But if the
banks are forbearing as to the necessity of paying up, cannot the
parties give each other mutual credit and avoid so great a press ?

500 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

If there are a few harpies wlio will not concur in tliis forbearance,
let such be paid and execrated, and let others forbear. The ne-
cessit}^ of great sacrifices among your dealers cannot affect the
nation, but it may deeply wound the city of New-York, by a
transfer to foreigners and citizens of other states of a large mass
of property greatly below its value. The face of your afiPairs
may undergo for a considerable time a serious change. Would
not the plan I suggested to you in my last be a means of secur-
ing more effectually the debts due to the bank, by accepting in
part payment the credits on your books ?

While I encourage due exertion in the banks, I observe that
I hope they will put nothing to risk. No calamity truly public
can happen while these institutions remain sound. They must,
therefore, not yield too far 1j3 the impulse of circumstances.

Yours, &c.

SETON TO HAMILTOlSr.

New-York, 26th March, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I had the pleasure to receive your kind letter of yesterday,
this day at 10 o'clock. We have no public sales of stocks now
in the evenings — therefore I cannot go into the market till to-
morrow, and although the sum is small, yet be assured it will be
a relief. The Collector has furnished the list of names of those
who have duties to pay between this and the first of May, and
our Directors have given out that they will discount on a deposit
of stock. The large dealers in stock are to have a meeting this
evening, and it is reported will enter into an absolute agreement
not to draw out any specie from the banks for three months to
come — so that from to-morrow I hope the prospect will brighten.
I have made as public as possible the new loan obtained in Am-
sterdam ; it gives most universal satisfaction. The January
packet arrived this day. The orders for the purchase of the 6 per
cents, at 22s. are very extensive, if bills could be sold at par — but

JEt. 35.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 501

the present consternation and want of confidence in each other,
have reduced bills to 10 per ceut. under par, so that the orders
cannot be executed.

I am writing in such a bustle of business that I hardly know
what I say. I shall have the pleasure of writing you again to-
morrow— meanwhile have the honor to be with the greatest
esteem and respect.

HAMILTON TO Wil. SETON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, April 4, 1792.

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you. I am
pained beyond expression at the picture you and others give me
of the situation of my fellow-citizens— especially as an ignorance
of the extent of the disorder renders it impossible to judge
whether any adequate remedy can be applied.

You may apply another 50,000 dollars to purchases at such
a time as you judge it can be rendered most useful: the prices
may be 20s. for 6 per cents. ; 12s. for 3 per cents., and 12s. 6d.
for deferred. The law and the object require that it should be
known you purchase for the public. I shall, by the next post,
send an ofiicial authorization.

I have doubt, however, whether it will be best to apply this
immediately or wait the happening of the crisis — which I fear is
inevitable. If, as is represented, a pretty extensive explosion is
to take place, the depression of the funds at such a moment will
be in the extreme, and then it may be more important than now
to enter the market in force. I can, in such a case, without diffi-
culty, add a hundred thousand dollars— probably a larger sum.
But you, who are on the spot, being best able to calculate con-
sequences, I leave the proper moment of operating to your
judgment. To relieve the distressed, and support the funds, are
primary objects. As it may possibly become advisable for the

502 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

bank to receive payments in stock from embarrassed persons, it
may not be amiss that you should know as a guide, that there
are at this moment orders from a respectable Dutch concern to
purchase 6 per cents, at 24s., if bills can be sold at par ; of this
I have the most unequivocal evidence. This is a proof that
foreigners will be willing to give that price. How vexatious that
imprudent speculations of individuals should lead to an alienation
of the national property at such under rates as are now given !
I presume your greatest embarrassments arise from the contracts
to pay and deliver not yet at issue. Is it possible to form any
conjecture of their extent ?

Yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SETON".
(private.)

Philadelphia, April 12th, 1792.

I have your letters of the 10th and 11th, and more to my
distress and surprise, I learn by other letters a confirmation of
what you apprehended, viz., Mr. Macomb's failure. This mis-
fortune has, I fear, a long tail to it.

The inclosed, you will perceive, gives you additional lati-
tude. The terms as heretofore for six per cents, 20s., three per
cents, 12s., and deferred 12s. 6d.

You must judge of the best mode and manner of applying
the sum. The operation here not being extensive, I have found
it best to eke out my aid. I doubt whether this will answer
■with you. My reason was to keep up men's spirits by appear-
ing often, though not much at one time. All is left to you.
You will doubtless be cautious in securing your transfer before
you pay.

Yours, &c.

iEx. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 503

HAMILTON TO THE DIRECTORS & CO. OF THE BANK OF NEW-
YORK.

Treasury Department, April 12th, 1792.

Gentlemen :

Since my official letter to you authorizing an advance to
your cashier of fifty thousand dollars, to be applied to the pur-
chase of public debt on account of the United States, I have au-
thorized that gentleman to apply for another fifty thousand dol-
lars, and to make the like use of it. I now confirm this direction,
and add my desire that he may be furnished with a further sum of
fifty thousand dollars, making in the whole one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars, the whole for the purpose above mentioned.

With great consideration.

Yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SETON.

Treasury Department, May 10th, 1792.

Sir:

I received your letter of the 7th instant, covering an account
of stock purchased by you for the United States.

I observe that you have exceeded the sum which Avas limited
by me to the amount of one thousand and ninety-eight dollars
eighty-nine cents ; but so small a difference is not very material,
and I am willing that the whole should remain on account of
the United States.

In order to a winding up of the business, I have now to re-
quest that you, will as soon as it can conveniently be done, cause
all the stock to be transferred in the names of the trustees as
heretofore, and that you will then procure from the commis-
sioner, and forward to me, the necessary certificates for transfer-
ring the stock from the books of the commissioner to those of
the treasurer.

504 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

You will please to accept of my best acknowledgment for
this additional mark of your zeal for the public service, and be-
lieve me to be,

Yours, &c.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

London, April 10th, 1792.

Dear Hamilton :

I dined the day before yesterday, tete-a-tete^ with the ^^us-
sian minister. Count Waranzow, who is a very sensible and
well-informed man. In the course of an interesting conversa-
tion after dinner, your name was mentioned, and he expressed a
desire to see your various reports to Congress. These he means
to transmit to his brother, who is the Minister of Commerce in
Eussia, in order to undeceive him with respect to the United
States. You will not only oblige me, but do a very useful
thing, if you will transmit these reports, with any other useful
information, in an envelope, directed to the Count Waranzow,
Minister Plenipotentiary from the Court of Russia. You can
send it to the American consul here, to be delivered to him, hut
choose a private ship for the conveyance.

The count, to show the importance of spreading such in-
formation, told me, that when he came to this country, believing
as he did in Mr. Pitt's integrity, he readily adopted the state-
ment given to him of our country, which was as poor and despi-
cable as need be. He says, that he is cured of his confidence in
Mr. Pitt ; but that the impressions made with respect to ximerica
still exist to our prejudice in many places. He says, that Mr.
Pitt had at one time, he believes, some disposition to make a
commercial treaty with us, but that the arguments used by Lord
Sheffield, and the indisposition of some of his colleagues, had
changed this intention ; that he may have returned lately
towards his former mode of thinking, in consequence of our

JE.T.35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 505

prosperous situation ; but that we sliould be very much on our
guard.

I am, &c.,

GODVERNEUR MORRIS.

SETON TO HAMILTON.

Nkw-York, April 16th, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I received your letter by the express, on Friday morning ;
previous to which, I had been relieving a few by purchases of
stock, upon the strength of the second extension of fifty thou-
sand dollars. At noon I went into the market, but the applica-
tions were so numerous, and so vastly beyond my expectation, I
found it necessary to declare, I could take but very small sums
from each. However, notwithstanding this, every one pressed
forward, and were so eager, that I could only take down names,
upon a declaration that I would average the whole. This I did,
that no one might be left Avithout some relief; so that the invest-
ment of the 100,000 dollars goes to upwards of 80 persons, from
which you may form a judgment that your orders for purchases
were well-timed. At the same time, it is an evidence of the
great and universal distress which prevails, and which I am
sorry to say is such, that it would be utterly impossible to make
purchases equal to the relief However, it cannot now be worse ;
and when the public mind calms down a little, it is to be hoped
that good will arise out of the evil — that the spirit of industry
instead of gambling will revive, and that the stocks will come to
their proper and real value.
I am.

With the highest esteem and respect, &c.

506 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

HAMILTON TO VAN SCHAACK.

Treasury Department, April 20th, 1792.

Sir:

I received your letter of tlie 1st of February shortly after its
date, and have duly noticed the remarks it contained on the sub-
ject of manufactures, which will not fail to recur, when the
Legislature shall have time to go into the consideration of the
proposed arrangements. The business yet to be transacted will
not admit of their further attention to my report, than the giv-
ing such modification to the ways and means recently required,
as will encourage this interesting branch of the national indus-
try. The bill has nearly made its progress through the House
of Representatives, in a form calculated as well to produce that
effect as the necessary supplies.

The specimens of carpeting, which were very acceptable,
were immediately placed in the committee-room of the House of
Eepresentatives, among a collection of specimens of American
manufactures, transmitted to the Treasury from several of the
States.

I am, sir, with great consideration and esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO DUER.

April 22, 1792.

My Dear Duer,

I hoped ere this to have seen you, to have afforded you
whatever of aid could have resulted from my advice, after know-
ing your real situation. But the session protracts itself, and I
can scarcely say when it will finish. Lest the information con-
tained in my last should induce you to postpone an arrange-
ment with your creditors, in the hope of speedily having an op-

^T. 35.J CORRESPONDENCE. 507

portunitj of consulting me, I liave tliought it best to apprise you
of the degree of delay which may attend my proposed visit to
New- York. Indeed, I can hardly flatter myself that my advice
could be of any real importance to you.

How are you? How are your family? At a moment of
composure I shall be glad to hear from you.

Eliza joins me in affectionate remembrances to Lady Kitty.
Farewell.

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, 6th May, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I had your letter delivered to me last evening, and feel my-
self hurt at the suggestions it contains concerning your own
situation.

Knowing you as I do, I should ever give to your political
conduct the basis of truth, honor, and love of country, however
I might have differed from you on some measures.

When therefore I feel undiminished regard to you, I cannot
help lamenting the misery to which you continue to be exposed,
and I wish to God it could be averted. Our country's pros-
perity Avill ever be with me the first object, and next to that,
(speaking as to public matters,) the happiness of my friends.
Unfortunately, those I most love have taken different sides on
American questions, and this discord in sentiment has issued in
personal disgust and hate.

This event kept me from Congress, and will confine me to
my own State. I had once cherished a hope of finding full em-
ployment corresponding with my feelings, in France, to which
place I was almost in the act of embarkation seven weeks ago
but the confusions there, and the interposition of some of my best
friends here, arrested my project. I mean now to become a
farmer, and get a wife as soon as possible.

508 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35

When I let you have my own riding horse I did not mean
to receive any thing for him, save the expense which attended
him in Alexandria, previous to my obtaining an opportunity of
conveying him, and your small advance exceeded this sum ; but
as you make a serious point of it, I will draw on you for the
balance of his price, which is sixteen guineas. I would censure
the delicacy which your letter exhibits on this subject, did I not
know that to one exposed to such a portion of crimination from
his foes, would not be relished even ironical censure from his
friends. Your attention to me in Philadelphia was as usual
friendly and affectionate, though your situation forbad us min-
gling much together.

Yours ever,

H. Lee.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

Philadelphia, May 25th, 1792.

My Deae Sir:

The society for the establishing of useful manufactures, at
their last meeting resolved to borrow a sum of five thousand dol-
lars upon a pledge of deferred stock. Mr. AYalker is empowered
to negotiate the loan, and I expect application will be made to
the Bank of New- York for it. I have a strong wish that the
directors of that bank may be disposed to give facilities to this
institution upon terms of perfect safety to itself I will add, that
from its situation it is much the interest of our city that it
should succeed. It is not difficult to discern the advantage
of being the immediate market of a considerable manufacturing
town. A pledge of public stock will completely fultil the idea
of perfect security. I will add more, that in my opinion banks
ought to afford accommodation in such cases upon easy terms of
interest. I think five per cent, ought to suf&ce, for a direct
public good is presented. And institutions of this kind, within

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 509

reasonable limits, ought to consider it as a principal object to
promote beneficial public purposes.

To you, my dear sir, I will not scruple to say in confidence,
that the Bank of New-York shall suffer no diminution of its pe-
cuniary facilities from any accommodation it may afford to the
society in question. I feel my reputation much concerned in its
welfare.

I would not wish any formal communication of this letter to
the directors, but you may make known my wishes to such of
them as you may judge expedient.

With real esteem and great regard, &c.

SETON TO HAMILTON.

New-York, 28th May, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

As our bank stock is now only at 28 per cent, premium,
I think it will be better to have the note of 1200 dollars you
inclosed to me discounted, as before its period of payment,
I think the stock will be higher. Mr. Troup has endorsed it.
I cannot, however, help expressing a regret, that the extreme
delicacy of your feelings should induce you to part with a stock
so extremely more valuable than its present price in the market.
In virtue of your power of attorney, I have signed the books
for all your dividends, viz. :

Dividend on 1st Nov., 1790, - - - $ 26 25
Surplus dividend on 80th April, 1791, - 186 00

Dividend on 1st May, 1791, - - - 26 25

Dividend on 1st Nov., 1791, - - - 52 50

Dividend on 1st May, 1792, - - - 30 00

$321 00
which sum is carried to the credit of your account, which was
overdrawn before $245 yVo — so that the balance now due to you
in bank is $75 rVo-

510 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

I trust you cannot doubt of the pleasure it will ever give me
to obey your commauds, and how much you gratify my feelings
by employing me in any way that I can testify the sincere re-
spect and esteem, with which I am, dear Sir, &c.

AMES TO HAMILTON".

Boston, June 10th, 1792.

Dear Sir:

Those who perceive the arduous nature of your duties ought
to wish to aid you in executing them. Whether the author of
the Path to Riches had it in view to afford you such aid or not,
I think it fit to send you the work, as our ]3olitical economy lies
much within your department. You have found the path for
our country, and it is advancing in it, though you have not
sought it for yourself. To drop this obscure way of writing, I
inclose Judge Sullivan's pamphlet on Banks, &c. The modest
title-page delights me. Where is the upright man to plead for a
people? Possibly this inquiry may be made by the people
whom the author so much desires to plead for. The fee ex-
pected for pleading is supposed to be the chair of Governor.
Another view is suggested : a state bank will afford a good field
of speculation, of which fame, that evil tongue, says, many of the
legislature were not unmindful at their last session, when the
Tontine was in discussion. My friends tell me that the ,*

the chair, the pride of state sovereignty. copy federal in-

stitutions, and the thirst for speculation will move different
parties, and produce some sort of bank or Tontine project, and
that resistance will be fruitless.

The inconsistent jargon of this pamphlet will make you smile.
It will not amuse the many, nor instruct the few, but its bulk
will deter many from reading it who will vote for a state bank,

* Defaced in original.

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 511

presuming that there are arguments enough for it in that great
book.

All goes well in the state. The people really prosper, and,
what is more, they know and say it, and give credit to the gen-
eral government for the change they have witnessed. I feel
persuaded they are perfectly well affected to good measures. I
only fear that the high sense of honor in the paying duties is
cooling. When money is in the case merchants need watching.
Mr. Gore mentions some facts which indicate the need of vigi-
lance.

I do not wish you to answer this. I would not write at all
if by doing it I should impose that task upon you.
I am, dear Sir, with perfect esteem,

Your most obedient humble servant,

Fisher Ames.

SETON TO HAMILTON.

New-York, 11th June, 1792.

>iY Dear Sir:

I inclose you the bond of Baron Steuben, which I took up
from Mr. Cutting, with his receipt for £506 13 0, which I paid
him. I wished him to be more particular in the receipt, but he
said you had already been informed of all the items that com-
posed this sum. Bank stock still keeps from 26 to 28 per cent.,
and therefore I have not sold yours, as I am convinced it must rise,
at least it ought to rise, if people wish to purchase a stock that
will give them good interest for their money.

In the month of July last year, Mr. Pearse, the manufacturer,
arrived here from Ireland ; he brought me letters from Mr. Dig-
gis, requesting my patronage, &c., and care of the models that
he brought. I complied in every sense, and receiviag afterwards
a letter from the Secretary of State and Mr. Coxe, of what im-
portance these models were, and directions how to forward them,
&c., I paid Mr. Pearse's passage and gave him money to enable

512 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 35.

him to get to Philadelphia. The models I sent by my son-in-law,
Mr. Yining. For the money advanced to Mr. Pearse, which was
120 dollars, I took his note of hand, which I sent to Mr. Coxe's,
as Mr. Jefferson wrote me all charges would be thankfully repaid.
However, I have never yet been paid ; and Mr. Coxe writes me
that Pearse's note to me is in your hands. I take the liberty of
mentioning this, that it may not be forgot, as it was purely 'pro
hono puhlico that I advanced the money.

SETOlSr TO HAMILTON.

New-York, June 25th, 1792.

Deae Sir :

Our directors are informed of your sentiments respecting the
loan to the Manufacturing Society. Be assured, my dear Sir,
they have so much confidence in any measure pointed out by
you, and take so much pleasure in promoting your views, which
they are all well convinced are ever intended for the public good,
that, by complying with your wishes, they have not even an op-
portunity of retaliating the obligations this institution is under
to you. Of mine, personally, I shall say nothing ; but that I am
with the greatest respect, &c.

HAMILTON TO COLONEL HETH AND OTHERS.

Philadelphia, June 2Gtli, 1792.

Gentlemen :

I have received your circular letter of the 28th of February
last.

I consider it as addressed to me in the capacity of a fellow-
soldier, and in that capacity I now acknowledge and answer it.

Eespect for you, gentlemen, and for those on whose behalf

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 513

you write, does not permit me to be silent ; and in replying, the
frankness which is due to you and them, and which is not less
due to my own character, forbids me to dissemble.

My judgment does not accord with the views which are an-
nounced in your letter. A perseverance in them will not, I be-
lieve, be productive of any advantage to the parties, and may, I
fear, be attended with some public inconveniences, which I am
persuaded they would regret.

I also have made sacrifices with the army, and, what is less
known, for the army. I feel that I love those who remain of
that respectable band,, and that no one can be more solicitous
than myself for their welfare. I trust, therefore, they will do
justice to my motives on the present occasion.
With very respectful consideration,

I have the honor to be, gentlemen, &c.

HAMILTON TO .

(private.)

Juue 26th, 1792.

Dear Sir:

This accompanies an official letter. I acknowledge I doubt
the accuracy of the opinion of the attorney-general on the last
point, A law is not to be so literally construed as to involve
absurdity and oppression. The legislature might reasonahlij re-
strain its officers from future huying and selling of stock, but
could not reasonably prevent their making a disposition of pro-
perty which they had previously acquired according to the laws
of their country.

At the same time, for greater caution, I should in my own
case follow the strict interpretation.

All my property in the funds is about 800 dollars, 3 per cents.
These, at a certain period, I should have sold, had I not been
unwilling to give occasion to cavil.
E 33

514 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

The restriction itself, as it respects the officers of the treasnry,
and I rather think the commissioners of loans, is a wise and un-
exceptionable one.

But the propriety of its further extension is not obvious, and
I doubt whether it will be lasting. The act passed in a prodi-
gious hurry.

A. H.

HAMILTON TO ELISHA BOUDINOT.

Philadelphia, July 12th, 1792.

Dear Sir:

I wrote to you, a day or two since, on the subject of the
advertisement.

You recollect there is a power to borrow to be given to the
Committee, under the seal of the Corporation. No time ought
to be lost in preparing and executing the power, and making
application for the loan. Not more than 80,000 dollars, in ad-
dition to the 10,000 already borrowed, need at first be asked for,
I shall write to Mr. Seton by to-morrow's post.

Pray, my friend, let nothing slumber.

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON to KING.

Philadelphia, July 25th, 1792,

My Dear Sir:

I received, lately, a letter from you, in which you expressed
sentiments according with my own, on the present complexion of
your party politics ; as, if a letter of mine to you did not mis-
carry, you will have seen. I wished that Clinton and his party

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 515

should be placed in a just light before tlie people, and that a
spirit of dissatisfaction, within proper bounds, should be kept
alive ; and this for national purposes, as well as from a detesta-
tion of their principles and conduct.

But a resort to first principles, in any shape, is decidedly
against my judgment. I don't think the occasion will, in any
sense, warrant it. It is not for the friends of good government
to employ extraordinary expedients, which ought only to be re-
sorted to in cases of great magnitude and urgent necessity. I
reject as well the idea of a convention as of force.

To rejudge the decision of the canvassers by a convention,
has to me too much the appearance of reversing the sentence of
a court by a legislative decree. The canvassers had a final
authority in all the forms of the Constitution and laws. A
question arose in the execution of their office, not absolutely
free from difiiculty, which they have decided (I am persuaded
wrongly), but within the power vested in them. I do not feel
it right or expedient to attempt to reverse the decision, by any
means not known to the Constitution or laws.

The precedent may suit us to-day ; but to-morrow we may
see its abuse.

I am not even sure that it will suit us at all. I see already
publications aiming at a revision of the Constitution, with a view
to alterations which would spoil it. It would not be astonishing,
if a convention should be called, if it should produce more than
is intended. Such weapons are not to be played with. Even
the friends of good government, in their present mood, may
fancy alterations desirable, which would be the reverse.

Men's minds are too much unsettled, everywhere, at the
present juncture. Let us endeavor to settle them, and not to
set them more afloat. I find that strong-minded men here view
the matter in the same light with me ; and that even Mr. Jay's
character is likely, in a degree, to suffer by the idea that he
fans the flame a little more than is quite prudent. I wish this
idea to be conveyed to him with proper management. I have
thoughts of writing to him.

You see, out of the reach of the contagion, I am very cool

516 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

and reasonable. If I were with you, I should probably not
escape the infection.

Farewell !

A. Hamilton.

Francis Childs is a very cunning fellow. In Philadelpbia^
in the person of his proxy, Freneau, he is a good anti-federalist
and Clintonian ; in New-York, he is a good federalist and Jay-
ite. Beckley and Jefferson pay him for the first, and the federal
citizens of New- York for the last. Observe a paragraph in his
Daily Advertiser of the 18th instant. These things ought in a
proper way to be brought into view.

HAMILTON TO KING.

July 27th, 1792.
Desirous of examining accurately the question decided by the
canvassers, I will thank you for a minute of all the authorities
which were consulted by you when you gave your opinion.

Yours, truly,

A. H.

I shall be glad to have them as soon as convenient.

KING TO HAMILTON.

Sunday, 29th July, 1792.
Mr. Jay will be with you this week, you will therefore have
an opportunity to converse with him respecting our very unplea-
sant situation. All the measures which have been pursued have

JEt.35.] correspondence
been calculated to induce tlie Legislature to call a convention to
revise tlie decision of tlie canvassers. So far as I am able to
form an opinion, a majority of the Assembly are Clintonians,
and, if so, will not agree to call a convention. Sliould tbis be
the case, the business will there terminate.

I have only a few loose notes concerning the questions decided
by the canvassers — by turning up Bohuns, or Comins, you will
find under the word sheriff, the English cases referred to which
respect the appointment and discharge of that ofl&ce. The lia-
bility of holding the office beyond the term for which sheriffs,
constables, and other annual officers are appointed, must have
arisen from the inconvenience to which the administration of
justice would have been exposed by vacancies in any of those
offices. The law on that point cannot be doubted. The practice
is common in this country, as well as in England, and property
to a great amount, in both countries, is held under decisions of
juries, returned by sheriffs exercising their office beyond their
year.

Yours sincerely,

EuFUS King.

HAMILTON TO BOUDINOT.

30th Juh^ 1792.

Dear Sir :

I expected to have set out to-day to join the Committee to-
morrow at Newark, but it is not possible. To-morrow morning
I shall embark in the Early Stage, and hope to reach you in the
afternoon ; but I pray that no business may be deferred on my
account.

Truly yours,

Alexr. Hamilton.

518 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

TENCH COXE TO HAMILTON.

Flemington, New Jersey, Aug. 14th, 1792.

Deae Sir :

Before I left Philadelpliia I had notice of a cause to be tried
on the 10th instant, at this place, of the business of which I had
some knowledge. It has lasted till this day, and the counsel
think my staying may prove very important to the just decision
of the cause. It is with great pain I remain, because I doubt not
the arrangement of the compensations now requires to be acted
upon. I shall hasten to Philadelphia in five minutes after I am
dismissed.

There has been a most respectable assemblage of persons from
various parts of this State, attending the courts of nisi prius —
and oyer and terminer — and I have felt infinite satisfaction in
manifestations from every description of them, that they equally
love the General and State governments ; and that they think
the great objects of public happiness committed to the former
have been faithfully and most beneficially managed.

They are full of a firm and generous confidence in the future
intentions of the general government.

I have the honor to be, with the most respectful attach-
ment, &c.

HAMILTON TO BOUDINOT.

Philadelphia, August 13tli, 1792.

My Dear Sir :

Some skirmishing having begun in the Gazette of the United
States respecting Mr. Freneau's receiving a salary from govern-
ment, I mentioned in conversation with a friend all that I knew
of the matter, and among other things, but without naming you,
the information you had given me concerning Mr. Madison's

Mr. 35.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 519

negotiation with Freneau. Upon this he founded a very pointed
attack upon Mr. Freneau and Mr. Jefferson, which I dare say
you have seen, as also Mr. Freneau's affidavit denying all negoti-
ation with " Thomas Jefferson, Esq., Secretary of State," &c. &c.
The gentleman has since applied to me to obtain, if possible, an
authentication of the fact of the negotiation.

K I recollect right, you told me that this, if necessary, could
be done ; and if practicable, it is of real importance that it should
be done. It will confound and put down a man who is continu-
ally machinating against the public happiness.

You will oblige me in the most particular manner, by obtain-
ing and forwarding to me without delay, the particulars of ail the
steps taken by Mr. Madison — the when and where, and with lib-
erty to use the name of the informant. His af&davit to the facts,
if obtainable, would be of infinite value. Care ought to be taken
that nothing is asserted which is not unquestionable.

Truly and affectionately yours, &c.

BOUDINOT TO HAMILTON.

New-York, August 16th, 1792.

Dear Sir :

I had just returned from the Circuit when I received your
letter by yesterday's post, and had not then read the pieces you
alluded to. Judge Bradford was with me, and relating the afiair
— especially the affidavit — he said he was very much mistaken,
if he had not the relation from Freneau's own mouth. " This I
know," says he, " that at the time I was in New- York, and was
informed of Mr. J.'s writing him a letter, which he took in dudgeon,
as striking at his independence, &c., and wrote a very insulting
answer, which he showed to Mr. Childs, who prevented his send-
ing it, &c. ; and in fact related the whole story as I had it. I
have no doubt, if you fall in company with him, and bring on
the conversation with him, as soon as he returns, he will give you

520 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

satisfaction on the subject. Converse witli him as if you had re-
ceived no information on the head.

Soon after I had the first conversation with you on that sub-
ject, I saw the gentleman I referred to, but I found him more
attached to F. than I supposed— and he refused allowing me to
say any thing from him. I am still in hopes, through another
channel, to ascertain the facts, which I will endeavor to do in the
course of the week, if possible, though I doubt not Judge Brad-
ford will, on reflection, be able to mention the authority from
which he had the story ; and if he had it immediately from F.
himself, it will be the best evidence that can be procured, and he
appears to have no reserve on the subject.

Have you received my letter inclosing Hall and Mort's pro-
posals ; if so, will you write your sentiments on the subject?
May we expect to see you on the 20th instant ? I see by the
papers a Mr. Nesbit has arrived from Scotland, and is with Gen-
eral Schuyler. Would it be worth while to wait to have his
opinion ?

Your letter inclosing the money I have received and for-
warded.

I am, with esteem, dear Sir,

Yours sincerely,

Elisha Boudinot.

HAMILTON TO SETON.

August 17th, 1792.

My Dear Sir :

Your letter, mentioning certain particulars respecting the two
banks, has been received, and will be duly attended to. I trust,
however, that certain appearances have in no degree proceeded
from any unkind disposition. The solution, I believe, is to be
found in the necessity of sending here a considerable sum in
specie. Large payments into the Bank of North America on

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 521

account of the State of Pennsylvania, subscriptions to canals, &;c.,
and large calls upon the Bant: of the United States for the service
of government, joined to liberal discounts, had produced a con-
siderable balance in favor of the Bank of North America, which
rendered it expedient to draw a sum of specie from New- York,
not to leave the National Bank in any degree in the power of
the Bank of North America, which once manifested a very mis-
chievous disposition, that was afterwards repaid by acts of kind-
ness and generosity. The tide is now changing, and must
speedily reverse the balance, and I mention it in confidence, be-
cause I wish, by explaining, to cherish confidence between the
two institutions at New- York, so necessary to their mutual
interest.

Inclosed, my dear sir, is a letter to Mr. Donald of St. Yin-
cents, which I beg your most particular care in forwarding. I
presume he is a merchant there ; but a gentleman lately men-
tioned to me, that he thought the name of the governor of St.
Yincents was Donald. If so, he is probably the person intended.
I received a letter from him, giving me some information of my
father. The letter to Mr. Donald covers one to my father, who,
from a series of misfortunes, was reduced to great distress. You
will perceive from this, that I must be anxious for the safe con-
veyance of my letter. If there is any person of whom you can
make previous inquiry concerning Mr. Donald, you will oblige
me by doing it, as a guide in forwarding the letter. I mean to
send a duplicate from this place.

Affectionately, and with sincere esteem,

Yours,

A. IIa]\[ILTOK.

DAYTOX TO HAMILTON.

Elizabethtown, August 2Gth, 1792.

Dear Sir:

Having been absent with my family on a visit to Staten
Island, and to the sea-shore, I did not receive, so soon as I other-

522 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

wise should, your letter of the 15tb. That Mr. Jefferson pro-
posed to Freneau to repair to Philadelphia and act in his
department as interpreter of the French language, and that,
subsequently thereto, a negotiation was had and completed be-
tween Mr. Madison and the latter, to establish and conduct a
newspaper there, are undeniable truths. Although desirous of
frustrating the machinations of a particular party, I cannot ne-
vertheless consistently comply -with your request in giving up
to public notoriety the name of my informant. In a correspon-
dence as confidential as ours, I have no hesitation in making it
known to you, more especially as such communication, while it
convinces you of the certainty of those transactions, will also
impress you with a conviction of the impropriety of that name
being again mentioned. I am indebted to Mr. Childs of New-
York for all that I knew and informed you relative to this
matter.

He, you know, is one of the printers, and interested in the
paper, and although I am well assured that he entirely disap-
proves the manner in which it is conducted, yet it is natural to
suppose that he would not willingly be instrumental in the
establishing of any fact which might operate to its disrepute or
prejudice.

With very sincere regard, yours,

JoNA. Dayton.

HAMILTON TO JAY.
(private.)

Philadelphia. Sept. 3, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

The proceedings at Pittsburgh, which you will find stated in
the inclosed paper, and other incidents in the western parts of
this State announce so determined and persevering a spirit of
opposition to the laws, as in my opinion to render a vigorous

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 523

exertion of tlie powers of government indispensable. I have
communicated this opinion to the President, and I doubt not his
impressions will accord with it. In this case, one point for con-
sideration will be the expediency of the next Circuit Court
noticing the state of things in that quarter, particularly the
meeting at Pittsburgh and its proceedings. You will observe
an avowed object is to '^obstruct the operation of the law." This
is attempted to be qualified by a pretence of doing it by " every
legal measure." But " legal measures " to " obstruct the opera-
tion of a law " is a contradiction in terms. I, therefore, entertain
no doubt that a high misdemeanor has been committed. The
point, however, is under submission to the attorney-general for
his opinion.

There is really, my dear sir, a crisis in the affairs of the
country, which demands the most mature consideration of its
best and wisest friends.

I beg you to apply your own most serious thoughts to it, and
favor me as soon as possible with the result of your reflections.
Perhaps it will not be amiss for you to converse with Mr. King.
His judgment is sound — he has caution and energy.

Would a proclamation from the President be advisable, stat-
ing the criminality of such proceedings, and warning all persons
to abstain from them as the laws will be strictly enforced against
all offenders ?

If the plot should thicken and the application of force should
appear to be unavoidable, will it be expedient for the President
to repair in person to the scene of commotion ?

These are some of the questions which present themselves.
The subject will doubtless open itself in all its aspects to you.
With real respect and affectionate attachment,

I remain, dear Sir, your obedient servant,

A, H.

Chief Justice Jay.

524 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.^t. 35.

JAY TO HAMILTON".

New-York, Sept. 8th; 1792.

Dear Sir:

I have conferred with Mr. King on the subject of your letter
of the Sd instant. We concur in opinion that neither a procla-
mation, nor Q. particular charge by the court to the grand jury,
would be advisable at present. To us it appears more prudent
that the business be opened by the President's speech at the en-
suing session of Congress. Their address will manifest the sense
of the House, and both together operate more effectually than a
proclamation.

No strong declarations should be made unless there be ability
and disposition to follow them with strong measures. Admitting
both these requisites, it is questionable whether such operations
at this moment would not furnish the Antis with materials for
deceiving the uninformed part of the community, and in some
measure render the operations of administration odious. Let all
the branches of government move together, and let the chiefs
be committed publicly on one or the other side of the question.
I perceive symptoms of the crisis you mention — if managed with
prudence and firmness it will weaken its authors. If matters
can pass suh silentio until the meeting of Congress, I think all
will be well. The public will become informed, and the sense
of the nation become manifest. Opposition to that sense will be
clogged with apprehensions, and strong measures, if necessary,
will be approved and be supported.

If, in the mean time, such outrages should be committed as to
force the attention of government to its dignity, nothing will re-
main but to obey that necessity in a way that will leave nothing
to hazard. Success on such occasions should be certain. Whether
this should be done under the President's personal direction, must?
I think, depend on circumstances at the time, or, in other words,
on the degree of importance which those circumstances combined
may evince.

Yours affectionately,

John Jay.

iEx. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 5ti5

ELISHA BOUDINOT TO HAMILTON".

Newark, 13th Sept., 1792.

My Dear Sir :

There are great exertions making to get the people to petition
against the incorporation ; several persons are employed to go
about with petitions, and the people are deceived by the most
absurd falsehoods. The only mode I thought of to counteract
them, was to have petitions drawn, and hire a person calculated
for the purpose to go round with them, and I am in hopes it will
answer the purpose effectually. We shall obtain numbers who
signed the first, to sign ours, declaring they were imposed on.
So much foT: petitions.

Will you sketch the substance of a law you wish with regard
to apjorentices — or the heading of it — and I will see it carried
through the Legislature ? Had you not better be up a day or
two previous to the first Monday in October ?

The Antis are making greater exertions than you perhaps are
aware of, previous to the expected general election. Our Chief
Justice says that a number from Pkiladelpliia have been to the
lower parts of West Jersey, informing the people that a strong-
party is forming in that city against the Secretary of the Trea-
sury, requesting their aid, and that they will not choose a man
who has supported his measures, especially Mr. Boudinot, &c. &c.

My brother showed me a letter last evening, received by the
post, dated Norfolk, Yirginia — only a few lines — inclosing a
handbill for his information, signed " James Blanchard." This
handbill is addressed to the Electors and Freeholders of New
Jersey, setting forth the dangerous consequences of the measures
of the Secretary, &c., the fanding system, bank, &c. ; then giving
extracts of speeches made by Mr. Boudinot in support of them,
&c,, and warning the people to take care, &c., and says that
pamphlets should be distributed amongst them previous to the
election.

From these things it appears as if they meant to try their
strength in every State. A young gentleman of this town was

526 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 35.

lately at Philadelphia, and at his lodgings there was a gentleman
from Virginia (whose name I do not at this moment recollect),
very violent on the subject, and said he was going the middle
and eastern States, to see what could be done with regard to
displacing the Secretary of the Treasury ; and, finding from the
conversation of the other gentleman, that Mr. Madison was not
a popular character, in Jersey at least, he asked if Mr. Morris
would not be agreeable, &c. If the federalists sleep whilst their
enemies are awake and vigilant, some mischief may be done.
I am, in haste, dear Sir,

With respect,

Yours sincerely,

Elisha Boudinot.

EING TO HAMILTON.

Sunday, 17th Sept., 1792.

If the enemies of the government are secret and united, we
shall lose Mr. Adams. Burr is industrious in his canvass, and
his object is well understood by our Antis. Mr. Edwards is to
make interest for him in Connecticut, and Mr. Dallas, who is
here and quite in the circle of the Governor and the party, in-
forms us that Mr. Burr will be supported as Vice-President in
Pennsylvania. Should Jefferson and his friends unite in the
project, the votes of Mr. A. may be so reduced, that though more
numerous than those of any other person, he may decline the
office. Nothing which has heretofore happened so decisively
proves the inveteracy of the opposition. Should they succeed
in degrading Mr. Adams, much would be to be apprehended in
respect to the measures which have received the sanction of
government.

Yours affectionately,

E. King.

^T. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 527

HAMILTON TO .

Philadelphia, September 21, 1792.

Dear Sir :

I take the liberty to inclose you the copy of a letter from a
very respectable friend in New-York. The contents surprised
me ; nor am I quite persuaded that the appearance of Mr. Burr
on the stage is not a diversion in favor of Mr. Clinton.

Mr, Clinton's success I should think very unfortunate ; I am
not for trusting the government too much in the hands of its
enemies. But still, Mr. C. is a man of property, and in private
life, as far as I know, of probity. I fear the other gentleman is
unprincipled, both as a public and a private man. When the
Constitution was in deliberation, his conduct was equivocal ; but
its enemies, who, I believe, best understood him, considered him
as with them. In fact, I take it, he is for or against nothing,
but as it suits his interest or ambition. He is determined, as I
conceive, to make his way to be the head of the popular party,
and to climb per fas aut nefas to the highest honors of the State,
and as much higher as circumstances may permit. Embarrassed,
as I understand, in his circumstances, with an extravagant
family, bold, enterprising, and intriguing, I am mistaken if it be
not his object to play the game of confusion, and I feel it to be a
religious duty to oppose his career.

I have hitherto scrupulously refrained from interference in
elections ; but the occasion is, in my opinion, of sufficient import-
ance to warrant, in this instance, a departure from that rule. I,
therefore, commit my opinion to you without scruple; but in
perfect confidence. I pledge my character for discernment, that
it is incumbent upon every good man to resist the present design.

528 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Sept. 23, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

Tbougli I had had a previous intimation of the possibility of
such an event, yet the intelligence contained in your letter of the
17th, surprised me. Even now I am to be convinced that the move-
ment is any thing more than a diversion in favor of Mr, Clinton ;
yet, on my part, it will not be neglected. My attention, as far as
shall be in any degree safe, will be directed to every State south
of New-York. I do not go beyond it, because other influences
would be quite as efficacious there as mine.

A good use will be made of it in this State. I wish a letter
could be written here, stating the plan, and Mr. Dallas's assertion
respecting Pennsylvania, which could be made use of without re-
serve. You well know who could write such a letter, and of
course to whom it might be addressed. Mr. Lewis would be the
most proper person to be written to. This is a matter of impor-
tance, and if practicable, no time should be lost.

I wrote Mr. Jay a long letter, which I fear reached New-
York after he had set out on the circuit, informing him that I had
concluded to advise a proclamation ; and my reasons for it, which
included some material facts not before communicated, I have
not leisure to repeat. The proclamation has been signed by the
President, and sent to Mr. Jefferson for his counter-signature ; I
expect it here on Tuesday, and have taken correspondent
measures. I believe all is prudent and safe.
Yours truly and affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

^T.35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 529

HAMILTON TO

Philadelphia, Sept. 26, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

Some days since I was surprised witli tlie following intelli-
gence, in a letter from Mr. King, whose name I disclose to you in
confidence.

'■'• Bwrr is industrious in his canvass, and his object is well un-
derstood by our Antis. Mr. Edwards is to make interest for him
in Connecticut; and Mr. Dallas, who is here, and quite in the
circle of the Governor and the party, informs us that Mr. Burr
will be supported as Vice-President in Pennsylvania. Nothing
which has heretofore happened so decisively proves the invet-
eracy of the opposition. Should they succeed, much would be
to be apprehended."

Though in my situation I deem it most proper to avoid inter-
ference in any matter relating to the elections for members of the
government, yet I feel reasons of sufiicient force to induce a de-
parture from that rule in the present instance.

Mr. Burr's integrity as an individual is not unimpeached.
As a public man, he is one of the worst sort — a friend to nothing
but as it suits his interest and ambition. Determined to climb to
the highest honors of the State, and as much higher as circum-
stances may permit ; he cares nothing about the means of effect-
ing his purpose. — 'Tis evident that he aims at putting himself at
the head of what he calls the " popular party," as affording the
best tools for an ambitious man. to work with — secretly turning
liberty into ridicule, he knows as well as most men how to make
use of the name. In a word, if we have an embryo Ccesar in
the United States, 'tis Burr.
530 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

KING TO HAMILTON".

September 27th, 1792.

Care has been taken to put our friends at the Eastward on
their guard. Measures have been pursued to ascertain opinions
in different quarters ; and on this, as on a former occasion, the
object may be silently abandoned, should it appear absolutely
desperate. If Clinton should be supported, this will be the case ;
if not, the party must resort to some other Northern character ;
hence the hopes of this gentleman.

The conversation with Mr. Dallas passed between him and
me, and it would not be well that I should be publicly quoted.
As he is almost all his time with the party here, I don't find that
I can obtain such a letter as you propose.

Mr. Jay, who returned yesterday, unwell, sent me your let-
ter of the 17th. I wish that the proclamation may produce the
effects you promise yourself. If the country will support the
judiciary, all will be well. My apprehension on this point led
me to wish the effort to be made under circumstances the most
favorable to its success. I like as little as you possibly can do,
the omission of the Executive to exercise its power on a plain
and important occasion. Still, allowances must be made for the
actual condition in which we find ourselves. You cannot stop
with the proclamation. Unless the opposition subsides, the
Executive must proceed, if requisite force must be employed, to
carry the law into effect.

One good point will be secured by the proclamation, which
possibly would have been precarious without it. There might
have been a disinclination to enforce the law, had its violation
been submitted to legislative consideration, previous to any step
on the part of the Executive to carry it into execution. This
cannot be the case now. The good, from inclination, and others
from a less worthy motive, will support the Executive and
enforce the law.

Yours, &c.,

R. King.

^T. 35.] • CORRESPONDENCE. 531

JOHNSON TO HAMILTON.

New-Yohk, September 30th, 1792.

Dear Sir :

You was so good as to assure me, tlie last time I had the
pleasure to see you, that you would introduce my son, Kobert
Charles Johnson, to our minister, Mr. Pinckney, that he might
have the benefit of his protection and advice on his travels in
England, &c. Circumstances would not permit him to go at that
time ; but he has now taken a passage on board a ship bound to
Bristol, which proposes to sail on Sunday next. His sole object
is introduction and improvement ; and as I wish him to travel
as advantageously as may be, I am persuaded no name in this
country can be a more valuable recommendation to him than
yours. I beg the favor of letters of introduction for him to the
minister, and any other of your friends in England you may
think proper.

He means, also, to see Holland ; and if the trouble in France
will permit him, to visit that country also, and therefore begs a
line to Mr. Morris, and, if it be not too great a favor, to M. de
Lafayette, &c. He will, with great pleasure, execute any com-
missions in his power for you in Europe ; and both he and I
shall be extremely obliged to you for any letters or commands
you shall please to favor him with, and am,
"With the sincerest esteem.

Dear Sir,

Your most obd't serv't,
Wm. Sam'l Johnson.

532 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

HAMILTON TO GEN. C. C. PINCKNEY.

Philadelphia, Oct. 10, 1792.

My Dear Sir :

I duly received your letter of the 6tli September, and have
sent an extract to Mr. Church for the explanation which is
necessary. I feel myself truly obliged by your friendly allusion
to my unpleasant situation, and for the consolation which you are
so kind as to offer me. The esteem of discerning and virtuous
men must always support a mind properly formed under the
pressure of malevolence and envy. I will not pretend that I am
insensible to the persecution which I experience ; but it may be
relied upon that I shall desert no post which I ought to endeavor
to maintain, so long as my own reputation or the public good
may render perseverance necessary or proper. When it is not
requisite, either to the one or the other, my friends will excuse
me if I recollect that I have a growing and hitherto too much
neglected family. It is to be lamented that so strong a spirit of
faction and innovation prevails at the present moment in a great
part of the country. The thing is alarming enough to call for
the attention of every friend to government. Let me not be
thought to travel out of my sphere, if I observe that a particular
attention to the election for the next Congress is dictated by the
vigorous and general effort which is making by factious men, to
introduce every where, and in every department, persons un-
friendly to the measures, if not the constitution of the National
Government. Either Governor Clinton, or Mr. Burr, of New-
York, both decidedly of the description of persons I have men-
tioned, is to be run in this quarter as Yice-President, in opposi-
tion to Mr. Adams. The former has been invariably the enemy
of national principles. The latter has no other principles than
to mount, at all events, to the full honors of the State, and to as
much more as circumstances will permit — a man in private life
not unblemished. It will be a real misfortune to the government
if either of them should prevail. 'Tis suspected by some, that
the plan is only to divide the votes of the Northern and Middle

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 533

States, to let in Mr. Jefferson by the votes of the South. I will
not scruple to say to you, in confidence, that this also would be
a serious misfortune to the government. That gentleman, whom
I once very much esteemed^ but who does not permit me to retain
that sentiment for him, is certainly a man of sublimated and
paradoxical imagination, entertaining and propagating opinions
inconsistent with dignified and orderly government. Mr. Adams,
•whatever objections may lie against some of his theoretic opin-
ions, is a firm, honest, and independent politician. Some valu-
able characters are about to be lost to the House of Eepreseuta-
tives, of their own choice. I feared once that this would be the
case with Mr. Smith,* of your State ; but I believe his present
intention is rather to continue to serve. I trust there can be no
doubt of his success, and I wish means to be used to determine
his acquiescence. He is truly an excellent member — a ready,
clear speaker, of a sound analytic head, and the justest views. I
know no man whose loss from the House would be more severely
felt by the good cause. The delicacy of these observations from
me will, of course, occur to you ; I make them without reserve,
confiding equally in your friendship and prudence. Accept the
assurances of the cordial esteem and regard with which I have
the honor to remain,

Dear Sir,

Your obedient Servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO STEELE.

Philadelphia, October 15, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

The letter, which you did me the favor to write me, of the
19th of September, came to hand two days ago. The late symp-
toms of acquiescence in the duty on distilled spirits, which you

* Hon. Wm. Smith, South Carolina.

534 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

announce in yonr quarter, are particularly satisfactory. If the
people will but make trial of the thing, their good will towards
it will increase. This has hitherto happened every where,
where the law has gone into operation. There certainly can be
no tax more eligible or less burthensome. Though I impose
on myself great circumspection on the subject of elections for
the Federal Government, yet, in relation to the characters you
mention, I feel myself more at liberty, and my entire confidence
in you will not permit me to affect reserve. I take it for granted
that, in all the Northern and Middle States, the present President
will have an unanimous vote. I trust it will be so in the South
also. A want of unanimity would be a blot on our political
hemisphere, and would wound the mind of that excellent charac-
ter to whom the country is so much indebted. For Yice-Presi-
dent, Mr. Adams will have a nearly unanimous vote in the
Eastern States. The same thing would happen in New- York, if
the electors were to be chosen by the people ; but as they will be
chosen by the Legislature, and as a majority of the existing
Assembly are Clintonians, the electors will, I fear, be of the
same complexion. In Jersey, Mr. Adams will have a unanimous
vote, and, according to present appearances, in Pennsylvania
likewise. The parties have had a trial of their strength here for
representatives, and though the issue is not finally ascertained,
there is a moral certainty, from the returns received, that the
ticket supported by the Federal interest will prevail by a large
majority. The electors nominated by the same interest, will all,
or nearly all, favor Mr. Adams. I believe the weight of Dela-
ware will be thrown into the same scale. And I think it pro-
bable there will be votes for Mr. Adams in Maryland. I presume
none in Virginia or Georgia. Of North Carolina, you can best
judge. In South Carolina he will have votes, but I am at a loss
to judge of the proportion.

This statement will inform you that Mr. Adams is the man
who will be supported in the Northern and Middle States, by
the friends of the Government. They reason thus — " Mr. Adams,
like other men, has his faults and foibles — some of the opinions
he is supposed to entertain, we do not approve ; but we believe

Ml. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 535

him to be honest, firm, faithful, and independent — a sincere lover
of his country — a real friend to genuine liberty ; but combining
his attachment to that with love of order and stable government.
No man's private character can be fairer than his. No man has
given stronger proofs than him of disinterested and intrepid
patriotism. "We will, therefore, support him as far preferable to
any one who is likely to be opposed to him."

Who will be seriously opposed to him, I am yet at a loss to
decide. One while, Governor Clinton appeared to be the man.
Of late, there have been symptoms of Col. Burr's canvassing for
it. Some say one or both of these will be played ofi" as a diver-
sion in favor of Mr. Jefferson. I do not scruple to say to you,
that my preference of Mr. Adams to either of these is decided.
As to Mr. Clinton, he is a man of narrow and perverse politics,
and as well under the former as under the present government,
he has been steadily, since the termination of the war with Great
Britain, opposed to national principles. My opinion of Mr. Burr
is yet to form — but, according to the present state of it, he is a
man whose only political principle is to mount at all events^ to the
highest legal honors of the nation, and as much further as cir-
cumstances will carry him. Imputations, not favorable to his
integrity as a man, rest upon him, but I do not vouch for their
authenticity.

There was a time when I should have balanced between Mr.
Jefferson and Mr. Adams ; but I now view the former as a man
of sublimated and paradoxical imagination — cherishing notions
incompatible with regular and firm government.

Thus have I opened myself to you with frankness. I doubt
not I am perfectly safe in doing it.

You give me pain by telling me that you have declined
serving in the House of Kepresentatives after the third of March
nest — and that it is doubtful whether you will attend the next
session. I anxiously hope that you will find it convenient to at-
tend, and that you will change your resolution as to not serving
in a future house. The ensuing session will be an interesting
one, and the next Congress will either anchor the government in
safety or set it afloat.

536 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

My apprehension is excited when I see so many valuable
members dropping off. Mr, Laurance and Mr. Benson will not
serve again. Mr. Barnewell also declines. The house will, I
fear, lose more of its talents than it can spare.
With truest esteem and regard,
I remain, dear Sir,

Your obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

M'HENRY TO HAMILTON.

20th October, 1792.

My Dear Hamilton:

I have been confined by a fever to my bed seventeen days-
Yesterday and to-day I have sat up a little.

I have just received your letter of the 10th ultimo, which ar-
rived during the height of my illness, after having gone to
Fayettville, in North Carolina, and back to Philadelphia.

I expect a visit from Bishop Carroll, on his return to Balti-
more, which may be next week. I have thought if I showed
him a paragraph in your letter it might have its use ; I have,
therefore, delayed destroying it until I hear from you. The
paragraph is, " Your project with regard to the Presidency, in a
certain event, will, I believe, not have an opportunity of being
executed. Happily for the j)ublic tranquillity the present incum-
bent, after a serious struggle, inclines, if I mistake not, to submit
to another election. If it turns out otherwise, I say unequivo-
cally— I will co-operate in running the gentleman you mention,
as one of the two who are to fill the two great offices. Which
of the two may turn up first or second^ must be an affair of some
casualty as the Constitution stands. My real respect and esteem
for the character brought into view will insure him my best
wishes in every event." Instruct me. Send me Perry's letter.

^T. 35.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 537

Adieu. If I should go to heaven before you— I shall remember
you. I must go to bed.

Yours affectionately,

James M'Henry.

CAEKOLL TO HAMILTON.

Annapolis, 22d October, 1792.

Dear Sir:

I received on the 7th instant, your favor of the 23d past. I
have delayed thus long answering it with a hope that I might
discover whether the anti-federal party in the State had in view
the person referred to in your letter. I suspect a communication
of sentiments is maintained by the leaders of this party through-
out the United States ; however, I have not heard his name even
whispered. His character I could not well see through during
the time we were together. I noticed a disposition to perplex
and puzzle, which left an unfavorable impression on my mind.
He appeared to me not to want talents, but judgment and steadi-
ness ; and I suspect he possesses of ambition a quantum sufficit
for any man.

I hope the friends of stability, in other words, the real friends
of liberty and their country, will unite to counteract the schemes
of men, who have uniformly manifested a hostile temper to the
present government ; the adoption of which has rescued these
States from that debility and confusion and those horrors which
unhappy France has experienced of late, and may still labor
under. I beg my respects to Mrs. Hamilton, and remain with
sentiments of respect and regard,
Dear Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant,

Charles Carroll, of Carrollton.

)38 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 35.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Paris, October 24tli, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I have received yours of the twenty-second of June, and am
in the hourly hope to hear farther from you. I need not tell
you that it will give me pleasure. Inclosed you will find the
copy of a letter, which I wrote to Mr. Jefferson on the 7th of
November, 1791. This, with some other communications of the
same epoch, he never acknowledged. I know not why, but I
think the paper inclosed in that letter will be agreeable to you,
though not very amusing.

It would seem that your friend jScipio is not much attached
to Pauhts, at least if I may judge from some things which I see.
However, there is a great chasm in my newspapers, which breaks
the thread of my conjectures, as well as of my information; for
I have little, I might almost say, none of the latter but from the
gazettes ; of course I know what passes about two months after
every body else. Tell me, I pray you, how Scoevola stands
affected between the parties just named. I think he never had a
very high opinion of the first mentioned, but he was attached to
Tarquin immeasurably, and that, with some local circumstances,
may have formed a stronger chain than I should otherwise sup-
pose.

You will have seen that the late Constitution of this country
has overset ; a natural accident to a thing, which was all sail and
no ballast. I desire much, very much, to know the state of
opinions with you on that subject. Some gentlemen who consi-
dered it as the acme of human wisdom, must, I suppose, find out
causes which persons on the spot never dreamt of. But in seek-
ing or inventing these causes, what will be their opinion of
present powers ; what the conduct they wish to pursue ? These
are to me important questions. Brutus will doubtless triumph,
but I wish to feel the pulse of opinion with you, or rather to
know beforehand how it is like to beat. There are pros and
cons whose action I cannot estimate. The flight of Monsieur de

iET.35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 539

Lafayette, tlie murder of the Duke de la Eocliefoucault and
others, with many similar circumstances, have, I know, affected
the ideas of some. But what will be the republican sense as to
the new republic ? Will it be taken for granted that Louis the
Sixteenth was guilty of all possible crimes, and particularly of
the enormous one of not suffering his throat to be cut, which was
certainly a nefarious plot against the people, and a manifest viola-
tion of the bill of rights ? Paulus, who is no enemy to kings,
will not believe that they are all tigers ; but I am not certain that,
if he were here, he would not consider them as monkeys.

However, we are done with them in France, at least for the
present. There are two parties here. The one consists of about
half a dozen, and the other of fifteen or twenty, who are at dag-
gers' drawing. Each claims the merit of having made the young
republic. My public letters and the gazettes will bring you ac-
quainted with things here, as fully as I can in any way commu-
nicate them. It is not worth while to detail the characters of
those now on the stage, because they must soon give place to
others. Adieu.

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Paris, December 24th, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I wrote to you on the twenty-fourth of October, and have not
since received any of your letters. In that I acknowledged
yours of the 22d of June. You will have seen from the public
prints the wonderful success of the French arms, arising from
the following causes, — 1. That the enemy, deceived by the emi-
grants, counted too lightly on the opposition he was to meet
with. 2. That from like misinformation, instead of attacking on
the northern frontier, backed by the resources of Flanders, and
those which the ocean would supply, they came across the
Ardennes, to that part of Champaigne nicknamed the loicsr/, from

540 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

its barrenness and misery. 3. That in this expedition, where
the difficulty of the roads, transportation and commnnication was
the greatest they expected, it so happened that the season, usually
dry and fair (when those bad roads are at the best), was one
continued rain for two months, so that at length they were
nearly stuck fast, and had as much as they could do to drag
back their cannon, &c,, through the mud. Lastly. That France
brought into the field, and has kept up until very lately, the
immense number of six hundred thousand troops. This has
been done at an average expense of about five millions sterling
per month beyond their resources, and yet they have ordered a
like army for the next campaign, and talk boldly of meeting
Great Britain also upon her element. What say you to that.
Monsieur le Financier ? But I will tell you in your ear, that in
spite of that blustering, they will do much to avoid a war with
Great Britain, if the people loill let thera ; but the truth is, that the
populace of Paris influence in a great degree the public councils.
I think they will have quite as many men as they can maintain ;
but what that may amount to is hard to determine.

The ministers here are most extraordinary people. They
make nothing of difficulties, as you shall judge by a single trait
of M. Pache, the Minister at "War. He had sent Bournonville to
occupy the Moselle river down to Coblentz, taking Treves and
other places in his way. ■ Now this way lies through a very diffi-
cult mountainous country, in which the snow is very deep, there-
fore Bournonville, having got a little neck of land between the
Saave and the Moselle, puts his troops into winter quarters, plead-
ing their nakedness as an excuse. The minister has sent him a
brace of commissioners, who have power to impress in the neigh-
borhood whatever may be needful for the troops, and then (their
wants supplied) summon him to obey his orders. I have given
to Mr. Jefferson a pretty full account of the state of things, so
that if you see that account, which I take it is of course, you
may measure by the standard now given you all other affairs.

If I may venture to judge from appearances, there is now in
the wind a storm not unlike that of the second of September.
Whether it will burst or blow over, it is impossible to determine.

iET. 35.] CORRESPONDENCE. 541

It has occurred to me, that I never yet assigned a reason why
the completion of payment of six million livres, which, at Mr.
Short's request, I had stipulated for with the government lately
abolished, appeared to me desirable. In effect I left this, as I do
many other things, to the sense of the gentle reader; but as
readers are sometimes ungentle^ it is not amiss to communicate
that reason to a friend. I saw that the new government would
be hungry, and would urge us for money in the double view of
obtaining an acknowledgment of them, as well as of supplying •
their wants. It was, therefore, I thought, right to take a position
where we might say, there is nothing due. This would leave open
a question, which it would be very delicate to answer either
way, as things appeared then, and as they are now that appear-
ances have changed. You will have seen the manoeuvres to force
me in that intrenchment ; but at last, like your friend General
Lee, I was quite at the worst for a retrograde manoeuvre.

But I concluded that supplies of money to support the colony
of St. Domingo would, in all events^ have been considered as a
good and effectual payment on our part, and had my offer of
recommending such supplies been accepted, I would on that
ground have proposed the measure, which, anticipating the next
instalments^ would have still kept open the main point as long as
you should think proper. And thus my apparent retreat was in
effect a mode of more permanent defence^ and this is more, I
believe, than poor Lee could say for himself

I am truly yours, &c.,

GOUVEENEUK MORKIS.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

New-York, December 29th, 1792.

Dear Sir:

On my return this evening from Eye, I found your letter of
the 18th inst. at my house.

542 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 35.

It is not difficult to perceive tliat your situation is unpleasant ;
and it is easy to predict that your enemies will endeavor to
render it still more so. The thorns they strew in your way will
(if you please) hereafter blossom, and furnish garlands to de-
corate your administration. Eesolve not to be driven from your
station ; and as your situation must, it seems, be militant, act
accordingly. Envy will tell posterity that your difficulties, from
the state of things^ were inconsiderable, compared with the great,,
growing, and untouched resources of the nation. Your difficul-
ties, from persons and parties will, by Time, be carried out of
sight, unless you prevent it. No other person will possess suffi-
cient facts and details to do full justice to the subject ; and I
think your reputation points to the expediency of memoirs.
You want time, it is true, — but few of us know how much time
we can find when we set about it.

Had not your letter come from the post-office, I should sus-
pect it had been opened — the wafer looked very much like it.
Such letters should be sealed with was, impressed with your
seal.

I rejoice with you in the re-election of Mr. Adams. It has
relieved my mind from much inquietude — it is a great point
gained — but the unceasing industry and arts of the Antis render
perseverance, union, and constant efforts necesssary.

Adieu, my dear sir.

Yours sincerely.

HAMILTON TO HARRISON.

Philadelphia, January 5th, 1793.

Dear Sir:

* * * * -;t Your account is returned with directory
remarks upon it. I am sorry you should have the trouble of so
many different applications, but the course of public business
requires it.

I am more sorry that we have been deprived of the pleasure

JEt. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 543

of seeing you. Every friend I see from a place I love, is a cor-
dial to me, and I stand in need of something of that kind now
and then.

The triumphs of vice are no new things under the sun, and I
fear, till the millennium comes, in spite of all our boasted light
and purification, hypocrisy and treachery will continue to be the
most successful commodities in the political market. It seems to
be the destined lot of nations to mistake their foes for their
friends, their flatterers for their faithful servants.

Adieu. Believe me with true esteem and regard, &c.

THOMAS PINCKNEY TO HAMILTON.

London, January 8th, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

I am informed by Messrs. Bird, Savage and Bird, merchants
of this city, that a scheme is in agitation for the payment in
London of the interest on that part of the American funds which
is in Europe, through the medium of agents to be appointed by
the Bank of the United States. As they wish, in conjunction
with another respectable house, to obtain this agency, they very'
judiciously think that your support would greatly strengthen
their application to the President and Directors of the Bank, and
have requested of me a letter of recommendation to you on the
subject; and I accede to the proposal without reluctance, as I am
persuaded that private application never influences your mind
in public appointments, at the same time that the testimony of
those acquainted with the applicants will have such weight as it
merits. With respect to the present business, I can only inform
you that the gentlemen who compose this house are respectable
in their private capacities as well as in their mercantile transac-
tions, and as far as my information goes very well connected
here ; they are known to have had considerable concerns in the
American funds already, which it is their present object to con-

544 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

tinue, and to evince tliat I do not recommend where I have not
a confidence, all my transactions in the money line pass through
their hands ; which, though not considerable, are of importance
to me.

Your letter to Messrs. Vanstaphorsts and Co., was brought to
me, yesterday, by the captain of the New Pigeon, and shall be
sent by this day's mail.

I have the honor to be, with the utmost respect, yours, &c.

CAERINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, February 15th, 1793.
I have been favored with a packet from you containing several
copies of your letter of the 4th instant, to the Speaker of the
House of Eepresentatives. I had fully anticipated the decided
contradictions contained in this letter, to the suggestions which
gave rise to it, having seen the resolutions alluded to. The
copies of the letters are circulated as far as the numbers would
admit, and I think if you could send me more, they might be
distributed with good effect.

I cannot but be of opinion that you ought to rejoice in those
attacks which lead to decided contradictions. Both sides of the
question get fairly presented to public view, and truth must ulti-
mately have its due effect.

I am, with great regard.

Your sincere friend and humble servant,

Ed. Oarringtojst.

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 545

MORRIS TO HAMILTON".

Paris, February 16tli, 1793.

Dear Sir:

My last was of the IGth. of Januar}^, of which I now inclose
a copy. It has so happened that a very great proportion of the
French officers, who served in America, have been either op-
posed to the revolution at an early day, or felt themselves
obliged, at a later period, to abandon it. Some of them are
now in a state of banishment, and their property confiscated.
Among these last there are a few, who had intrusted to their
agents the certificates received from our treasury, and these last,
under the pressure of penal decrees, either detain those certifi-
cates, or have delivered them up to those persons appointed by
the republic to take charge of confiscated property.

There certainly can be no question on this subject, under the
laws existing among nations, but I shall not undertake to decide
either on rights or pretensions to right, especially where I am
not authorized to act ; but it is proper that I should lay before
you a state of facts, for your ulterior decision. The only one at
present before me is the case of Colonel Laumoy, to whom I
shall write in answer to his applications, that I am not author
ized to make payment but on production of the certificate, and
therefore he must address himself on the subject to you, in the
full confidence that right and justice will take place, such being
the clear determination of the United States.

I am, &c.,

GrOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

BARD TO HAMILTON.

Ne-w-York, March 4th, 1793.

Sir:

I dined a few days ago with a large company at Judge Du-
ane's. In the course of the afternoon, you became the subject
E 35

546 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 36.

of general conversation. It gave me the greatest pleasure to
hear that just and grateful applause which all the company be-
stowed upon you.

Your friend General Gates declared whenever your idea was
present to his mind, he could not help applying to you the beau-
tiful epitaph Mr. Pope wrote to the memory of his friend, Mr.
Secretary Craggs :

" Statesman, yet friend to truth, of soul sincere,
In action faithful, and in honor dear !
Who broke no promise, served no private end.
Who gained no title, and who lost no friend.
Ennobled by himself, by all approved,
Praised, wept, and honor'd, by the mass he loved."

It was unanimously and heartily agreed by this respectable com-
pany, that these lines exhibited an exact and perfect portrait of
Colonel Hamilton's character. The delight I felt at this just and
grateful eulogium has prompted me to communicate it to the
only gentleman, who will probably feel less sensibility on the
occasion, than any of his numerous friends. Though I presume,
a just tribute of praise, which flows from a grateful sense of those
great and essential benefits, man derives to his country, by su-
perior abilities and unremitting devotion to its real interests,
cannot be ungrateful to the generous donor himself.
I am. Sir,

With real respect and affection, &c.

HAMILTON TO .

August, 1793.

Dear Sir:

Poor Duer has now had a long and severe confinement, such
as would be adequate punishment for no trifling crime. I am
well aware of all the blame to which he is liable, and do not
mean to be his apologist, though I believe he has been as much

,Et. 36.J CORRESPONDENCE. 547

the dupe of his own imagination, as others have been the vic-
tims of his projects. But what then? He is a man — he is a
man with wliom we have both been in habits of friendly inti-
macy. He is a man who, with a great deal of good zeal, has in
critical times rendered valuable services to the country. He is
a husband, who has a most worthy and amiable wife, perishing
with chagrin at his situation ; — your relation by blood, mine by
marriage ; — he is a father, who has a number of fine children,
destitute of the means of education and support, every way in
need of his future exertions.

These are titles to sympathy, which I shall be mistaken if
you do not feel. You are his creditor. Your example may in-
fluence others. He wants permission, through a letter of license,
to breathe the air for /ye years. Your signature to the inclosed
draft of one, will give me much pleasure.

Yours, A. H.

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

March 4th, l/QS.

My Dear Sir:

The people of Massachusetts entertain the idea that a balance
is due to the State more than sufficient to cover her State debt,
and some anxiety has been excited in the legislation of that
State, lest she should finally fail of receiving it. After the fail-
ure of the Assumption-Bill, I intended to have had five minutes
conversation with you on the subject, but that your time seemed
to be overcharged with other business.

I hope you will find leisure and inclination to furnish me
soon with your ideas on the interesting subject of commercial
policy, and that you will say definitively whether my continu-
ance in the bank is to be desired or not, since it furnishes so co-
pious a topic for complaint. I called this morning to bid you
farewell, but you were absent.

May God bless you.

^ G. Cabot.

548 HAiMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

ELISHA BOUDINOT TO HAMILTON.

Newark, March 26th; 1793.

Dear Sir:

After passing througli a fierj ordeal, I suppose you have a
few moments to breathe a milder air. The part the country in
general lake in your triumph over the envious and malicious,
— enemies to the government as well as yourself, — must convince
you that the influence of these beings extends but a little way out
of their own selfish, narrow circle.

Mr. Low has been over with me, and we have concluded to
put off the meeting of the directors till the 16th April, as then
we should have a full board, in all probability, and be more
likely to have your attendance. In fact, if you do not wish to
forsake your child, it is absolutely necessary for you to attend at
that time. Mr. Low informed Major L'Enfant, Mr. Colt, and
myself, that Colonel Ogden would make an offer at that time, to
deliver the water at Vreelandt's Point, purchase the lands neces-
sary for the canals for £20,000, and if he did, he should be of
opinion that it ought to be complied with. The Major then said,
he would not begin any part of his plan that was not in actual
operation until then ; and they concluded to discharge the labor-
ers that applied, and give out that they would not be wanted till
the 20th April. This will occasion a delay that I am sorry for.
Mr. Colt goes home, and will return by the time of our meeting.
He is, I think, every way qualified for the business, and I have
no doubt of its success under his management, as soon as the
works can be set in motion. He is very much pleased with
Peirce and Marshall, and they with him ; and harmony is fully
restored. Do not let these pompous, high-minded, tcould-he
kings, though under the false garb of republicans, draw your at-
tention from this great object, but look forward to those tranquil
days when this child will be an Hercules, and you settled on the
beautiful and peaceful banks of the Passaic, enjoying the fruits
of your labor.

I am with respect, dear Sir, yours sincerely, &c.

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 549

CARRINGTOX TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, March 26th, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

With very great pleasure I have compUed with your request
in getting the final proceedings of the House of Eepresentatives
inserted in the most public and generally circulating paper of
this place, and sent them to Norfolk, Petersburg, Alexandria,
and Winchester, with a request, through my friends at these
places, that they be inserted in their papers, which will instantly
be done.

The votes of Colonel Griffin, upon this occasion, were caught
at by the enemies of the government, at the late election, which
took place just about the time of their appearing; and, as will
always be the case, a dangerous effect was produced amongst the
public in every county in this district ; but the activity of better
men on that day, produced what the great body of the people, I
think, are always ready to possess— a reasonable disposition — and
his election was fortunately secured, to the great mortification of
some of our most active demagogues ; and I am well assured
that, at this day, many who were carried away by the storm are
much ashamed of their conduct.

You are, my good friend, too well acquainted with mankind
to expect that you are to proceed in the administration of an
ofiice so efficacious in the operations of government as yours,
without being constantly exposed to attacks. All that you can
do is, to shield yourself, as you have done, against ultimate in-
jury, by a steady exercise of your best abilities, and manifesting
in every act an integrity, that even your enemies have not, in
all their complaints of pernicious tendency in your measures,
ventured to call in question.

You have this consolation, that do as they will with the fur-
ther progress of your systems, they have proceeded far enough
to evidence the solidity of the principles on which they were
laid, and the ability with which they were set in motion. If
they continue in their natural course, they will at last be your

550 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[^T. 36.

most certain vindicators. If they meet with such interruption
as to destroy them, worse measures, I apprehend, will often
force the reflections of the people back upon them.
I am,

With very great regard, dear Sir,

Your afPectionate friend and humble serv't,

Ed. Carrington".

HAMILTON TO KING.

Philadelphia, April 2d, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

When you are acquainted with all the facts, I think you
will alter the opinion you appear to entertain. My application
comes literally within your rule. The loan is necessary for the
current expenditure, independent of any new advance to France,
or of purchases of the debt. This has arisen from my having
been under the necessity of remitting to Holland, for a payment,
in June, of 1,000,000 guilders, as an instalment of the principal,
and 470,000 guilders for interest of the Dutch debt.

Late advices rendering it problematical whether a loan could
be obtained for the purpose of the instalment, it became neces-
sary to make this remittance to avoid danger to the public
credit.

Hence, without a loan from the bank, I ought to calculate
upon a deficiency in the present quarter (remember we are in
April) of 672,023 dollars and 26 cents, and in the next, of
325,447 dollars and 28 cents.

This is the result of as accurate a view of receipts and ex-
penditures as can now be taken. You will anticipate that, by
all the expenditures not falling actually within the periods to
which they are applicable, the real deficiency would not be so
great as the calculated ; but you will, at the same time, perceive
that the view given supposes a state of the Treasury which ren-
ders an auxiliary indispensable.

a:t.36.] correspondence. 561

At the same time, I cannot but think that you apply your
principle too rigorously. I ought not to be forced to divert, for a
length of time, funds appropriated for other purposes, to the current
expenditure. To compel this, would be, in substance, to with-
hold the means necessary for the public service ; for it would
oblige the Treasury to employ an adventitious resource, which
ought not to be so employed, and that too at a time when it could
be employed advantageously, according to its original and true
destination. I therefore think, independent of the I'eal exigency,
the bank ought to make the loan.

The loans to government stand on very different considera-
tions from those to individuals. Besides the chartered privileges,
which are the grant of the government, the vast deposits con-
stantly on hand, and which ordinarily exceed the loans from the
bank, frequently very greatly, are an advantage which, generally
speaking, bears no proportion to the advantages of the dealings
between individuals and the bank. Consider, too, what has
been the state of things for some time past, and the real sacrifices
which have been made not to distress the institution.

If for such accommodations equivalent services are not to be
rendered, they could not easily be defended.

Besides, from the necessity of having a considerable sum on
hand in the Treasury, and the natural course of the business, the
bank is pretty sure of having always on deposit a large part ol
what it lends to the government. This does not exist, in any
thing like the same degree, in the case of individuals.

You seem to calculate that the past advances will not be re-
placed. On the contrary, it is my intention, pursuant to stipula-
tion, to repay as fast as the funds come in applicable to it ; and
in the last quarter of the year, I hope to make a considerable
progress in the reimbursement ; till then, it will not be prac-
ticable.

I do not know whether Mr. Kane stated to you the nature of
my proposal. It was, that the payments should be made in four
equal monthly instalments — the first on the first of June — and
that each instalment should be reimbursed in six months. The
real advance of the bank will be very temporary, indeed, before

552 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 36.

greater sums will come into its vaults from the duties. In the
last quarter of the present, and the first quarter of the ensuing
year, very large receipts may be expected.

You are sure that while I seek to put myself in a proper pos-
ture, I shall not fail to have a due regard to the safety and inter-
est of the institution.

It is much to be wished that I could be enabled to make some
purchases, though this will not be the case with the loan in ques-
tion, unless a loan shall also have been obtained in Europe.

A meeting of the commissioners has lately been called by
Mr. Jeiferson, out of the course heretofore practised, in which I
have been pressed to declare whether I had or had not funds appli-
cahle to purchases. I answered so as to be safe. But you readily
perceive the design of this movement. There is no doubt in my
mind, that the next session will revive the attack with more sys-
tem and earnestness — and it is surely not the interest of any
body, or any thing^ that a serious handle should be furnished.

On the whole, I am persuaded that the Bank can do what I
ask without real inconvenience to itself; and my situation is such
that I shall be compelled to find an auxiliary.

All the cry here is for peace. How is it with you ?
Truly and affectionately,

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

New- York, April 11th, 1793.

Dear Sir :

Your letters of the 9tli inst. were this day delivered to me, as
I was preparing to go out of town — the subject of them is impor-
tant, I have not time to judge decidedly on some of the points.
The inclosed will show what my present ideas of a proclamation
are — it is hastily drawn — it says nothing of treaties — it speaks

.f:T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 553

of neutrality, but avoids the expression, because in this country
often associated with others.

I shall be at Philadelphia in my way to Richmond. I think
it better at present that too little should be said than too much.
I would not receive any minister from a regent until he was
regent de facto ; and therefore I think such intention should be
inferrible from the proclamation. Let us do every thing that may
be right to avoid war ; and if, without our fault, we should be
involved in it, there will be little room for apprehensions about
the issue. It is happy for us that we have a President who will
do nothing rashly, and who regards his own interest as insepara-
ble from the public good.

Yours sincerely, &c.

KING TO HAMILTON.

April 24th, 1793.

Averse to any connection with the war beyond what may be
permitted by the laws of strict neutrality, we are pleased to see
the Proclamation. I have no precedents with which to com-
pare it, but I could have wished to have seen in some part of it
the word " Neutrality," which every one would have understood
and have felt the force of

Having anxiously considered the points respecting which we
conversed when I was with you last, I hope you are founded in
your opinion. The change which has happened will not, per-
haps, justify us in saying "the Treaties are void" — and whether
we may contend in favor of their suspension is a point of delicacy,
and not quite free from doubt. The authority of the present
Government is coextensive with their territory, which is free
from the possession of their antagonists.

Prudence would seem to require us to move with caution,
and by delay to insure a safe decision. The mere reception of
the minister will do us no injury, although I am inclined to be-

554 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

lieve, that in order to avoid being pressed on points we may wish
not to decide, it will be best to qualify the reception of the min-
ister in such a manner as will save our commitment in reference
to those questions we wish to stand open.

Our treaty with Holland may be used with advantage. The
report of Mr. Le Brun to the Convention respecting perfidy of
the monarchy towards us, is proof of such a want of good faith as
poisons the whole treaty.

Have you noticed that the 16th article of the Treaty of Com-
merce between England and France is in the teeth of the 22d
article of the Treaty of Commerce between France and us ? On
the principle that all the articles of a treaty have the force of con-
ditions, the violation of this article by France would give us
the power to renounce the whole treaty.

Examining our laws respecting the registry of our ships and
vessels, I was struck with a difficulty which will luckily be in the
way of our purchasing prizes brought into our ports by any of
the powers at war. It is w:orth your attention. As the law
stands, I do not perceive that any such vessels can be protected by
the American flag, even though owned bona fide by American
citizens. Of this point, however, I will not be confident. Such
vessels, beyond doubt, will be liable to pay the foreign tonnage.

The conduct of England in searching our ships, and impress-
ing seamen engaged under our flag, is very different in the pres-
ent armament from what it was in the late armament against
Spain. The masters of our ships which have arrived here from
England, as also those who have arrived from Ireland, speak with
the appearance of national pride when they mention the hotness
of the press and the entire exemption of ships which sail under
our flag. The circumstance is one from which we may make
pretty certain inferences. Farewell. I wish I could give assist-
ance to the measures and maxims you will pursue. We must
not become entangled with this mad war.

Yours, &c.,

EuFus King.

,£t. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE,
CARKINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, April 26, 1793.

Dear Sir :

I am favored with yours of the lOth instant. Your deter-
mination to persevere with patience in your labors to estabhsh a
permanent and successful system of revenue and credit for the
United States, must give satisfaction to all who feel that these
are the only supports of public safety and private prosperity. I
am well assured that in private life, you experienced pecuniary
advantages, and personal ease, both of body and mind, not to be
found in your present office, even were all hands to unite for
your assistance; great indeed must be then your sacrifices,
when, instead of this generous assistance, you are beset with
numerous hostilities.

To your inquiries respecting the public mind in Virginia, in
regard to the events which are happening in Europe, I will give
the most satisfactory answer I can ; it is not, however, unknown
to you, that upon things so remote, but few are heard actually
to speak, and these generally take the liberty to affix the name
of the people to their own suggestions. The truth is, that the
great body of the people desire nothing that will interrupt the
freedom, peace and happiness, they now enjoy. With regard to
the cause of France, I believe the general wish is for its success.
My own sentiments are in favor of such reforms in most of the
governments in Europe, and indeed in the world, as will give to
the human race the most free governments it can enjoy. The
experiments in France have not, however, been very flattering.
This applies to your first question.

As to the second— I believe the decapitation of the king is
pretty generally considered as an act of unprincipled cruelty,
dictated by neither justice nor policy. In my own mind, it was
a horrible transaction in every view ; and to an American, who
can even yield to its propriety, it ought to be felt as a truly sor-
rowful event.

As to the third— I have no doubt that the sense of this country

556 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

is for a perfect neutrality, if it can possibly be had. My own
sentiments are, that the French, from having commenced one of
the noblest causes that ever presented itself in any country, have
lost themselves in the wildest quixotism ; my wish is that they
may recover their reason, and establish for themselves a good
government, leaving other countries to judge for themselves.
If thej^ do this, they need not fear the combinations of their
enemies.

As to the 4th and 5th — so far as I have heard observations
upon the subject of the treaty between France and America, it
appears to be considered that no alteration in the government of
either country changes the obligations of pre-existing treaties.
At the same time, it is generally held that, should we in conse-
quence of treaty, be bound to take any other than a neutral
station in the business of France, it will be an unfortunate cir-
cumstance, as we could do them no real service, and would
involve ourselves in distress. I have no doubt of its being the
general opinion, that if we, of right, have ah option, the most
perfect neutrality ought to be observed. We have in this, as
there are no doubt in every State, some characters to whom any
thing but quiet would be agreeable. This, however, is not the
case with the great body of our fellow-citizens, and the few who
are desirous of new adventures, will, doubtless, have the consent
of their countrymen to go to France in quest of them. My own
sentiments on these two questions are, that in determining what
is to be done in regard to the treaty, several considerations pre-
sent themselves. 1st. Its applicability to the present state of the
parties. 2dly. The reasonableness of calling, on the part of the
French, for a performance of it on ours, in reference to the
original motives for entering into it. 8dly. The probable conse-
quences to both parties from an attempt to fulfil the required
service. The first consideration I shall leave to those well
versed in the laws of nations ; and, perhaps, the sentiments of
the people in the Islands concerned, may claim some regard in
the determination. If they are desirous of adhering to the old
government, it may not be an insupportable opinion, that theirs
is the claim upon us for the guarantee promised in the treaty.

.1^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 557

Upon the principles of liberty and equality, it would seem that
this distinct part of the old kingdom should have a free choice
upon the subject of the revolution. The American confederacy,
as well as I recollect, demanded not the co-operation of Georgia
until she, some time after the commencement of our opposition to
Britain, voluntarily joined her sister colonies ; nor did we, during
the war, claim the allegiance of Canada ; and our connection
with these colonies in a common subjection under the British
monarchy was as complete, and locally more so, than France and
the French islands under the French monarchy. To this, it
may with some plausibility be said, that the American rise was
not a revolution of the national supreme power, but only a sepa-
ration of a part from it, and, therefore, not applicable in the pre-
sent instance. Granting this, we have a more recent one, Avhich
the principle of this objection renders certainly applicable. In
our late change of government, when a sufficient number of
States had adopted a new form to give it effect, the constituted
power did not claim right of government over the two non-
adopting States, until they, voluntarily, re-considered the subject
and adopted.

There can be no doubt but, that at the time of this event we
were an entire nation, bound together under one government,
and that the change was a revolution of the national supreme
power, as completely as that which has taken place in France. I
should suppose that, should these islands elect to place them-
selves in a situation independent of the French republic, or even
under the protection of any other power, such election would be
in perfect consistency with the avowed principles of that republic ;
and when we consider the actual situation of the islanders, as
well in regard to the nature of their property, as their depend-
ence upon foreign protection, it is highly probable that, if they
be taken by any of the maritime powers, now combined against
the French, the event will be a consequence of their desiring it.
Upon the second consideration, it must be concluded, that each
of the contracting parties had regard to the extent of its engage-
ment, and relied as much on mutual good faith in reasonable
constructions of, as compliances with the stipulation contained in

558 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

the treaty ; and it would seem that, upon either involving itself
in war by voluntary acts, which cannot be supposed to have been
contemplated at the time of contract, there can be no equitable
claim upon the other for performance. Could it be at the time
of the treaty in contemplation of the United States, that a revo-
lution, such as has happened in France, was possible, and that
the new power, before organizing itself upon a rational form,
would be crusading it after the liberties of other countries, and
by that means arming all Europe against it ? Had they foreseen
that such was to be the state of French affairs, would they have
bound themselves to guarantee the islands under the consequent
wars ? I presume that had the United States at any time after
the peace thought proper to attempt the freeing of Canada from
Britain, or the Spanish colonies from Spain, neither the king, nor
even the republic of France, would have thought we had a
reasonable claim upon that nation for a participation in the war,
on account of her having, in general terms, guaranteed our
liberty and independence as well in government as commerce.
Upon the third consideration, could our attempting a compliance
with the treaty, produce good to the French cause? We have
not, nor had we at the time of the contract, a nav}'' — the only
means by which the islands can be protected against naval
powers ; we could, therefore, give no immediate defence in that
quarter. We might attack Canada, and, upon the same principle,
the Spanish colonies also ; but any offensive operation would, at
once, involve us in war with these, and all the combined powers ;
this must inevitably interrupt our trade, which neither America
nor France is in a situation to protect, and prevent those supplies
of provisions now sent to Europe, of which France is in greater
need than any of her enemies. This consequence would follow,
even should no part of the forces destined to act against the re-
public, be diverted to act in America ; and should such diversion
take place, the scene here would be so considerable as to inter-
rupt our agriculture, and abridge, if not totally prevent, a sur-
plusage of provisions for exportation. These would undoubt-
edly be the consequences to France from any attempt on our part
to assist her as an ally ; and, it does appear to me, that her true

jEt. 36.] SPONDENCE.
policy, if she shall be in temper to reflect on it, is, to be vigilant
in keeping the United States clear of the war, leaving them to
enjoy of the 7nare liherum as fully as possible. This is the only
country from which she can expect supplies of provisions, and if
we can retain the free use of the seas she will be more certain of
receiving them in the course of trade, than by a feeble attempt
of government to supply her against the fleets of her enemies.
The consequences to the United States, from an attempt to com-
ply with the treaty, need not be mentioned. They must be
evident to all who think at all on the subject ; nor will any one
whose happiness is connected with that of his country, be willing
to encounter them, but under the pressure of inevitable necessity.
This, I am inclined to think, will not occur, if we are wise. The
inhabitants of the United States ought to rejoice that, being no
longer adventurers for their own liberties, they are too remote
from the countries which have the desperate game to play, to be
brought into hazard with them.

In answer to your sixth question, I suppose the ambassador
from the French republic might be received, in form, without
the least impropriety, upon the ground of neutrality. He comes
from the prevailing authority of the nation, and it would seem
that any government refusing a reception, would manifest more
than a spirit of neutrality. The conduct of England on this
point was followed by effective measures against the republic.
The expediency of a reception in form, I have no doubt of.
Upon more considerations than the mere propriety of it, it will
prevent many cavils against our administration. It is proper for
me to inform you that we have amongst us those who are pre-
paring the people for such an event as a refusal, under the old
story of an Eastern influence in favor of monarchy in America,
consequently, unfriendly to the liberties of France. You will
readily perceive that the motive for this, arises less from a zeal
for the cause of France, than a desire to destroy the confidence
of the people in their own government.

I would be for receiving the ambassador from the French
republic, and from any other of the belligerent powers, but would
be publicly explicit as to a perfect neutrality. The French, I

O60 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

JEt. 36

suppose, have a good pretext for business with us not connected
with a participation in the war. The debt, which it appears to
be understood, ought to be paid to the existing authorities, is
certainly no unimportant ground of intercourse.

The only chance that I can now perceive for the United
States being lugged into the war is, that Great Britain may at-
tempt to restrain, by force, the passage of their ships into the
French ports with provisions, and our feeling it necessary for the
public honor, to resent the injury, should such a circumstance
happen. We shall, I suppose, have a delicate, and, perhaps,
difficult part to act. I cannot however be very apprehensive of
our being brought into the difficulty, if we evidently preserve a
neutrality. If we leave our trade open to all countries, and our
citizens free to visit all ports, I see not how Great Britain can
have a pretext to meddle with our vessels going into France,
unless laden with what are called contraband articles, or ap-
proaching places besieged, &c. Some of our hot heads throw
out opinions that we should attempt, by an order of government,
an exclusive exportation to France ; these, however, are few and
contemptible. The nation that would attempt this, without
even one armed ship, and in behalf of a nation too, whose naval
force is impaired, and far inferior to that of her enemies, would
indeed entitle itself to the ridicule of the whole world. It is
certain that France could derive no benefit from such an attempt,
which she may not secure without our infringing the rights of
neutrality. Having no navy, we must rely altogether, in the
eflbrt, upon her convoys ; and if these could cover our trading
ships, their own might, under the same convoys, pass safely home
with the provisions purchased in our ports.

I have, my dear sir, complied with your request in giving
the result of my observations and reflections upon the present
very important crisis, and have endeavored to render them
worth your trouble in asking for them. Your own judgment
will direct you how far to rely upon their accuracy. With every
sentiment of private friendship, and the fullest confidence in
your public administration,

I am your aSectionate humble servant,

Ed. Carrington.

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 561

STEELE TO HAMILTON.

Salisbury, April 30th, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

This morning Mr. Genet, tlie French Minister, set out from
this place for Philadelphia. His route is by Eichmond, thence
to Mount Yernon, where he hopes to see the President. It will
require eighteen or twenty days for him to reach Philadelphia,
though he professes, and really seems to be in haste.

You have heard much of this citizen^ no doubt, and therefore
any thing of him from me will seem superfluous ; but as I am
writing of the man that we are all afraid of, permit me to say
that he has a good person, fine ruddy complexion, quite active,
and seems always in a bustle, more like a busy man than a man
of business. A Frenchman in his manners, he announces him-
self in all companies as the minister of the republic, &c., talks
freely of his commission, and,like most Europeans, seems to have
adopted mistaken notions of the penetration and knowledge of
the people of the United States. He is, or affects to be, highly
gratified by the affectionate treatment he has thus far expe-
rienced from the Americans, except of Charleston, where an in-
sult was offered to a French seaman, which he attributes to the
merchants, who seem in his opinion almost wholly attached to
the British. The minister, notwithstanding his good-nature,
spoke angrily of this insult, and for a moment deviated from his
system, which I think is to laugh us into the war, if he can.
The best informed men in this State, who are wholly disinter-
ested, continue uneasy, from an apprehension that our political
connection with France, and our commercial intercourse with
England, will place the United States in a delicate, if not a dan-
gerous situation during the war. My own mind has been at
ease since the communication which you were pleased to make
me of your sentiments on that subject in Philadelphia.

This conversation having been confidential, I have never con-
sidered myself at liberty to repeat any part of it, but I have often
said, on proper occasions, that the friends to neutrality and
E 36

562 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

peace would find in the Secretary of the Treasury an able and
zealous friend. In short, the best men in this country rely chiefly
upon your talents and disposition to avoid the rocks which lie
upon the right hand, and upon the left, ready to dash our young
government to pieces upon the least unskilful pilotage.

This part of the country affords nothing worth attention,
except the prospect of plentiful harvests, and a good share of
political contentment.

Those who have usually been most clamorous are now in
Congress, where you may be assured they can do less evil than
at home.

With these honorable citizens I am perfectly acquainted, and
could give you a more certain description of their characters
than of the illustrious Republican who occupies a considerable
space in this letter. But you will know them soon enough.
Perhaps I may say a word or two of each of the new ones, some
time before next December, as it is certainly important that a
man in your situation should know what sort of materials he has
the misfortune to work with.

Commend me to the remembrance of Mrs. Hamilton, and
believe me to be,

With perfect respect.

Your most humble servant,

Jno. Steele.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Phtladelphu, May 2d, 1793.

The failures in England will be so seriously felt in this
country as to involve a real crisis in our money concerns.

I anxiously wish you could be here to assist in the operations
of the Bank of the United States. Never was there a time which
required more the union of courage and prudence than the

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 563

present and approacTiing juncture. You can imagine all tliat I
could add on this subject. Is it impossible for you to spend a
month with us ?

Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

MRS. GEN. GREENE TO HAMILTON.

Mulberry Grove, May 10th, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter, dated the 3d September, 1793, arrived here 20th
of April, and the moment I received it I got into my boat, and
hastened to town with all possible speed, having no person here
before whom I could legally swear to the inclosed facts, as nearly
as I can recollect them. Judge Pendleton was then in court ; I
did not hesitate to send for him, and told him the wretched
situation I was in on your account ; and after a little raillery he
consoled me by telling me that your affair had, some time since,
been settled very much to your honor, and that now my depo-
sition would be of no use — the fact being produced in the public
prints only could induce me to delay it a moment.

I send it therefore, now^ not with an expectation that it will
be of the least consequence, but only to show you that I can
never be ungrateful to a man whose perfections are the only
source of malicious calumny, and whose goodness to me will
never be forgotten.

It is now more than a year since I ordered Mr. Ward, of New-
York (my agent there), to pay you the sum you were so good as
to lend me in my distress, and I will thank you to write me one
line to let me know if you have received it.
I am, and ever shall be,

Your devoted, affectionate and grateful,

Cath. Greene.

Mr. Miller has just returned from Augusta, and tells me that

564 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 36.

the money has not been paid according to my order, as the cer-
tificates which were lodged for that purpose have not been sold,
but that he will make other arrangements to have it paid.

HAMILTON TO

1793.

You ask me if the newspapers of Philadelphia give a true
picture of the conduct of its citizens on the occasion of the ar-
rival of Mr. Genet, and whether the great body of them are
really as indiscreet as those papers represent them.

It gives me pleasure to be able to answer you in the nega-
tive. I can assure you upon the best evidence, that, compara-
tively speaking, but a small proportion of them have had agency
in the business.

Though the papers, on the morning of the da 3^of Mr. Genet's
arrival, announced his approach, and at o'clock three

guns were fired from the frigate as a signal to those who were
disposed to go to meet him at Gray's ferry, as had been pre-
viously concerted and notified in the papers, and though we are
told- by some of the printers, that all the outlets from the city
were crowded with persons going out to meet Mr. Genet, the
fact is, that a very inconsiderable number indeed went out. It
is seldom easy to speak with absolute certainty in such cases,
but from all I could observe or have been able to learn, I be-
lieve the number would be stated high at a hundred persons.

In the evening of the same day, according to notice in an
evening paper, which came out earlier than usual for the pur-
pose, a meeting was convened at the State House yard, under
the direction of the same persons who had projected the going
out to Gray's. This meeting was also inconsiderable. From
forty to one hundred persons give you the extremes of the num-
bers present, as reported by those who were at the meeting or in
a situation to observe it.

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 56;")

Here a committee was appointed to prepare an address to
Mr. Genet ; and another meeting of the citizens was advertised
for the ensuing evening at the same place, the object of which ,
it seems, was to consider and approve the address.

This last meeting is stated differently, from three hundred to
one thousand. An accurate observer, who was a by-stander
and paid particular attention to the matter, assures me, that
there Avere between five and six hundred assembled. I rely
upon this as about the truth.

The persons who were met approved the address which had
been prepared, and, as you have seen, nominated a committee
to present it, whom they accompanied to Mr. Genet's lodging at
the City Tavern.

On their way to the City Tavern, their number was, as you
will imagine, considerably increased. A crowd will always draw
a crowd, whatever be the purpose. Curiosity will supply the
place of attachment to or interest in the object. What number
may have been assembled in the vicinity of the City Tavern, it
is impossible to say. The evening being pretty far advanced,
was alone an obstacle to judging.

But the true test was the meeting in the State House yard.
'Tis there we are to look for the real partisans of the measure.
And, according to this standard, it may be pronounced that not
a tenth part of the city participated in it.

You ask who were its promoters. I answer, that with very
few exceptiotis they were the same men who have been uniformly
the enemies and the disturbers of the government of the United
States. It will not be surprising, if we see ere long a curious
combination growing up to control its measures, with regard to
foreign politics, at the expense of the peace of the country —
perhaps at a still greater expense.

We too have our disorgauizers. But I trust there is enough
of virtue and good sense in the people of America to baiHe every
attempt against their prosperity, though masked under the spe-
cious garb of an extraordinary zeal for liberty. They practi-
cally, I doubt not, adopt this sacred maxim, that without gov-
ernment there is no true liberty.

566 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

I agree with you in the reflections you make on the tendency
. of pubhc demonstrations of attachment to the cause of France.
'Tis certainly not wise to expose ourselves to the jealousy and
resentment of the rest of the world, by a fruitless display of zeal
for that cause. It may do us much harm, and it can do France
no good (unless indeed we are to embark in the war with her,
which nobody is so hardy as to avow, though some secretly
machinate it). It cannot be without danger and inconvenience
to our interests to impress on the nations of Europe an idea that
we are actuated by the same sinrit which has for some time past
fatally misguided the measures of those who conduct the affairs
of France, and sullied a cause once glorious, and that might have
been triumphant. The cause of France is compared with that
of America during its late revolution. Would to Heaven that
the comparison were just. Would to Heaven we could discern
in the mirror of French affairs the same decorum, the same
gravity, the same order, the same dignity, the same solemnity,
which distinguished the cause of the American Eevolution.
Clouds and darkness Avould not then rest upon the issue as
they now do. I own I do not like the comparison. When I
contemplate the horrid and systematic massacres of the 2d and
3d of September ; when I observe that a Marat and a Eobes-
pierre, the notorious prompters of those bloody scenes, sit tri-
umphantly in the convention and take a conspicuous part in its
measures — that an attempt to bring the assassins to justice has
been obliged to be abandoned ; when I see an unfortunate
prince, whose reign was a continued demonstration of the good-
ness and benevolence of his heart, of his attachment to the peo-
ple of whom he was the monarch, who, though educated in the
lap of despotism, had given repeated proofs that he was not the
enemy of liberty, brought precipitately and ignominiously to the
block without any substantial proof of guilt, as yet disclosed —
without even an authentic exhibition of motives, in decent re-
gard to the opinions of mankind ; when I find the doctrines of
atheism openly advanced in the convention, and heard with loud
applauses; when I see the sword of fanaticism extended to force
a political creed upon citizens who were invited to submit to the

jet.36.] correspondence. 567

arms of France as the harbingers of hbertj ; when I behold the
hand of rapacity outstretched to prostrate and ravish the monu-
ments^of religious worship, erected by those citizens and their
ancestors ; when I perceive passion, tumult, and violence usurp-
ing those seats, where reason and cool deliberation ought to pre-
side, I acknowledge that I am glad to believe there is no real re-
semblance between what was the cause of America and what is
the cause of France ; that the difference is no less great than
that between liberty and licentiousness. I regret whatever has
a tendency to compound them, and I feel anxious, as an Ameri-
can, that the ebullitions of inconsiderate men among us, may not
tend to involve our reputation in the issue.

JAMES HAMILTON TO HAMILTON.

St. Vincents, June 12th, 1793.

Dear Alexander :

I wrote you a letter, inclosed in one to Mr. Donald, of Vir-
ginia, since which I have had no further accounts from you. My
bad state of health has prevented my going to sea at this time —
being afflicted with a complication of disorders.

The war which has lately broke out between France and Eng-
land makes it very dangerous going to sea at this time. How-
ever, we daily expect news of a peace, and when that takes place,
provided it is not too late in the season, I will embark in the first
vessel that sails for Philadelphia.

I have now settled all my business in this part of the world,
with the assistance of my good friend, Mr. Donald, who has been
of every service to me that lay in his power, in contributing to
make my life easy at this advanced period of life. The bearer of
this, Captain Sherriff, of the brig Dispatch, sails direct for Phila-
delphia, and has promised to deliver you this letter with his own
hands ; and as he returns to this island from Philadelphia, I beg

568 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

you will drop me a few lines, letting me know how you and your
family keep your health, as I am uneasy at not having heard
from you for some time past. I beg my respectful compliments
to Mrs. Hamilton and your children, and wishing you health and
happiness, I remain, with esteem, dear Alexander,

Your very affectionate father,

James Hamilton.

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, June 15th, 1793.

My Dear Sir :

"We have heard here that a circular letter from you to the
several collectors relative to French prizes has given great offence
to the British minister, and that this conduct on the part of the
United States will contribute to produce a rupture with Great
Britain. I should be very much obliged to you for the truth on
this point and its expected consequences.

Peace to America is, in one word — our all. A set of clamor-
ous desperadoes, in their fortunes or political hopes, cry aloud
for war, and I fear Great Britain is not indisposed to take advan-
tage of every event to injure us. What the intemperance of
some among us, and her solicitude to avenge past disgrace may
produce, time alone can unfold ; but I hope that the true friends
to their country will every where and on every occasion, unite
to prevent the calamity of war.

What is the real state of things in France ; and will not her
enemies, after victory there, feel the exploit but half accom-
plished, unless we also are politically changed ? On this ground
I sometimes apprehend danger, but am revived again, when I
look at the sea which divides us, and reckon on the exhausted
state of their finances. Farewell.

Henry Lee.

Mt.36.] correspondence. 569

HAMILTON TO KING.

June 15tli, 1793.

Dear Sir:

The ideas expressed in your letter of the 14th, correspond
with my view of the subject in general. I did not perceive that
any process could be devised to detain the privateer, and con-
cluded, that the issue would be to leave her in military custody.
Indeed, I believe this was rather the expectation with all, though
it was thought advisable to make the experiment of a reference
to the civil tribunal.

AYith regard to the Catharine, I also entertain the doubt you
appear to have. In the case of the Grange, the surrender was
brought about by a demand of Mr. Genet, and his interposition.
But it was in contemplation of employing the military in case of
refusal.

Yet, since that time, a libel has been filed in the District
Court in the case of another vessel, alleged to have been captured,
within the limits of our jurisdiction. And both Mr. Lewis and
Mr. Eawle, attorney of the district, hold that the District or
Admiralty Court will take cognizance of this question. They
argue that it would be a great chasm in the law, that there should
not be some competent judicial authority to do justice between
parties in the case of an illegal seizure within our jurisdiction.
That the Court of Admiralty has naturally cognizance of tortious
takings on the high seas, and as she gives relief in rem, may
cause a re-delivery. That though, as a general principle, a court
of a neutral nation will not examine the question of prize or not
prize between belligerent powers — yet this principle must except
the case of the infraction of the jurisdiction of the neutral power
itself Quoad this fact, its courts will interpose and give relief.

This is their reasoning, and it has much force. The desire of
the Executive is to have the point ascertained, and if possible to
put the affair in this train. There may arise nice difficulties
about the /ac^, and nice points about the extent of jurisdiction at
sea, which the courts had best settle.

570 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 36.

The contest in form must, as you say, be between the oivners
and the captors. For this purpose, Mr. Hammond is to cause
the proper instructions to be given.

Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

There is a letter from me to Harrison. If Troupe has not
opened it let him do it.

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON.

Boston, July 26th, 1793.

Dear Sir:

We have here our French party and French politics as well
as you ; and they are taking measures here, as well as with you,
to bring us to a serious point. They mean, I am satisfied, to
force a discussion on the question of their right to fit out
privateers, to originate new expeditions in our ports, to cruise on
their enemy. From the conduct and observations of the consul
here, and what we learn to be the language and conduct of the
minister in Philadelphia, there is strong reason t6 believe that it
is part of a system of policy towards us which their people are
directed to pursue. They will try how far they can use us to
their purpose without coming to points. They will then push us
to a decision that shall leave them at option to part from us, or
not, as they may think best, and on such ground as will appear
decent abroad, and not compel their partisans here to desert
them. Such is my view of French politics at this moment, rela-
tive to the United States.

This is a critical period in our affairs. We have a narrow
and difficult pass to go through ; and the longer it is delayed the
greater will be the danger, in my opinion.

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 571

It is asked by demagogues, wliy do individuals or classes of
men interfere, who have no authority to interpret treaties, not
even for themselves as a rule of conduct ? If government, or
those whose duty it is, think the right claimed by the French is
not founded, and against treaty, the laws of nations and our in-
terest, the proper oificers would appear and the exercise of the
right be prohibited. Such observations have weight, and many
good men, who well intend and who well support government
in the execution of laws, are much perplexed and made to
waver.

In this State there is but one opinion, except in this town.
Here dwell all the seditious, and desperate ; and here we have
lately had to combat and to subdue them, both in a meeting of
the trade, and of the town. It was a good opening to give a
full approbation of the late proclamation, and to get the citizens
pledged in favor of neutrality, and the measures of government,
and to excite similar feelings and votes in other towns. I ex-
pect we shall have in this way the voice of a large part of the
State, perhaps above a hundred towns.

These proceedings you will see in the papers, but not the
effects yet.

I offer you these facts and observations, as matter of informa-
tion, which may or may not be useful. To judge from the state
of things here, the sooner we come to the touchy points, which
seem to arise out of our case, and not to be avoided, the better
it will be. Let us take our stand upon clear ground, or the best
which our case will admit, seems to be here the general lan-
guage.

But here we see in part only, and may not know of difficul-
ties which perplex government.

Pacificus is operating here without interruption. Our pa-
triots, though pressed to enter the field, dare not venture on
more than street harangues. I am pledged to meet Dr. Jarvis,
the bell-wether of the flock, either in public discussion in per-
son, or upon paper, whenever he shall notify the intention of
making a formal attack.

«^T2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 36.

If there is a clear line of distinction, founded in reason and
upon treaty, between the refitting, &c. of prizes and privateers,
as I suppose, and the originating new armaments in our ports, it
will be very happy for us here to have it drawn. We have so
many people who have been in the habit of privateering, Avho
are now hungry and enterprising, and who have many facilities
to engage in that business, it will be very difficult to restrain
them from being concerned in the vessels fitted out, and perhaps
from going in person. In such cases the incitement will be so
strong, and the means of covering themselves under French
names, &c. so easy, that the evil may extend very far, and many
of our citizens be seduced from their duty.

I am respectfully, Sir, your humble servant,

Stephen Higginson.

KING TO HAMILTON.

New-York, Saturday, 3cl August, 1793.

The French fleet from the Chesapeake arrived here yesterday
and are in the North Eiver, above the Battery. The Ambuscade
also arrived last evening, and her accounts, confirmed by those
of many spectators of the combat, leave no doubt of the flight of
the English frigate.

You will have seen in our newspapers, an invitation for a
meeting in the fields, to address Mr. Genet, who is daily expected
here. This business originated with M. Smith, Osgood, B. Liv-
ingston, Nicholson, and others of like political character. Be-
tween two and three hundred persons assembled, and I am told
they were generally antifederal. Nicholson was in the chair.
An address was produced and adopted, and a committee of thirty
or forty persons appointed to present it.

These gentlemen will not be stopped by trifles. They already
affirm that the cause of France is that of America ; that it is time

tEt. 36] CORRESPONDENCE. 5*73

to distinguish its friends from its enemies ; that in respect to the
rumor of Mr. Genet's appeal to the people from the decision of
the Executive, the people are competent judges of their own
interest and obligations ; that there can be no danger to them
from the free exercise of their judgment on so great and interest-
ing an occasion. True it is that their decision may displease
men in high authority, but that will not prove their judgment to
have been erroneous — nay, some of these gentlemen go further,
and not only excuse, but applaud the decree of the French con-
vention, which not only contravenes our treaty of commerce, but
grossly violates the best established rules in the law of nations.
In short, my friend, unless the Executive will quickly and vigor-
ously exercise its powers in checking the influence of Mr. Genet,
it may experience the mortification of seeing them perish in its
hands. Our Chamber of Commerce will on Tuesday pass reso-
lutions approving the proclamation, and we are resolved to try
the citizens for the like purpose. But this is altogether wrong.
We have with great trouble established a Constitution, which
vests competent powers in the hands of the Executive. It is the
duty of that department to see that the laws are executed, and
the peace and order of the community preserved. It was never
expected that the Executive should sit with folded arms, that the
government should be carried on by town meetings, and those
irregular measures which disorganize the society, destroy the
salutary influence of regular government, and render the magis-
tracy a mere pageant.

The decree of the French convention has thrown the mer-
cantile people into the greatest embarrassments. Insurance on
American vessels and cargoes cannot be made without paying
war premiums. I am told that where four or five per cent, was
given, eighteen and twenty are now required. Adieu.

Yours, &c.

574 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Philadelphia, August, 13, 1793.

Dear Sir :

The post of to-daj brought me your letter of the 10th, but I
was too much engaged to reply to it by return of post.

The facts with regard to Mr. Genet's threat to appeal from
the President to the People, stand thus : —

On Saturday^ the 6th of July last, the warden of this port
reported to Governor Miffiin that the hrig Little Sarah, since called the
Petit Democrat {an English merchant vessel, mounting from tivo to
four guns, taJcen off our coast by the French frigate, the Ambuscade,
and brought into this port), had very materially augmented her mili-
tary equipments ; having then fourteen iroji cannon and six sivivels
mounted; and it being understood that her crew ivas to consist of one
hundred and twenty men.

Governor Mifflin, in consequence of this information, sent Mr.
Dallas to Mr. Genet, to endeavor to prevail upon him to enter into an
arrangement for detaining the vessel in port, without the necessity of
employing for that purpose military force.

Mr. Dallas reported to Governor Mifflin, that Mr. Genet had abso-
lutely refused to do what had been requested of him; that he had been
very angry and intemperate; that he had complained of ill-treatment
from the government, and had declared that " he would appeal from
the President to the people f' mentioned his expectation of the
arrival of three ships of the line — observing that he would know
how to do justice to his country, or, at least, he had a frigate at
his command, and could easily withdraw himself from this ; said
that he ivould not advise an attempt to take possession of the vessel, as
it would be resisted.

The refusal was so peremptory, that Governor Miflain, in con-
sequence of it, ordered out 120 men for the purpose of taking
possession of the vessel.

The conversation between Genet and Dallas was, in toto, re-
peated by Governor Mifflin to General Knox the day following,

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 575

and the day after that, the Governor confirmed to me the decla-
ration with regard to appealing to the people ; owned that some-
thing like the threat to do justice to his country, by means of
the ships of the line, was thrown out by Mr. Genet, but showed
an unwillingness to be explicit on this point; objecting to a
more particular disclosure, that it would tend to bring Mr. Dal-
las into a scrape.

Mr. Jefferson, on Sunday, went to Mr. Genet, to endeavor to pre-
vail upon him to detain the Petit Democrat till the President could
return and decide upon the case; hut, as Mr. Jefferson afterwards
communicated, he absolutely refused to give a promise of the kind,
saying, only, that he would not probably be ready to depart before the
succeeding Wednesday, the day of the President's expected return.
This, however, Mr. Jefferson construed into an intimation that she
ivoidd remain. Mr. Jefferson also informed, that Mr. Genet had
been very unreasonable and intemperate in his conversation
(though he did not descend to particulars), and that Pallas had
likewise told him {Mr. Jefferson) that Genet had declared he would
appeal from the President to the people.

The Petit Democrat, instead of remaining as Mr. Jefferson had
concluded, fell down to Chester, previous to the Wednesday referred to,
where she teas when the President returned. A letter was written to
Mr. Genet, by order of the President, informing him that the case of
the vessel, among others, was under consideration, and desiring that
she might be detained until he should come to a decision about her ;
but this requisition was disregarded. She departed in defiance
of it.

I give the detail, that you may have the whole subject before
you ; but I cannot give leave to make use of it all. The cir-
cumstance of the letter may be omitted. It may be said, gen-
erally, that a requisition was made of Mr. Genet, by order of the
President, for the detention of the vessel. All that part, how-
ever, which is scored or underlined, may be freely made up.
This part is so circumstanced as to take away all scruples of per-
sonal or political delicacy. 'Tis not so with the rest. It can
therefore only be confidentially disclosed to persons whose dis-

576 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

cretion may be relied on, and whose knowledge of it may be
useful.

It is true (as you have heard) that things, if possible still
more insulting, have since been done by Mr. Genet ; but of this,
at present, no use can be made, no more than of some antecedent
transactions nearly if not quite as exceptional. The mass would
confound Mr. Genet and his associates. Perhaps it may not be
long before a promulgation of it will take place.

I am of opinion with you, that the charge ought to be in-
sisted upon.

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

P. S, It is to be observed, that the equipments of the Petit
Democrat are, in the strictest sense, an original fitting out. She
was before a merchant vessel ; here she was converted into a
vessel commissioned for war, of considerable force.

HAMILTON TO KING.

August, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

It is not yet finally determined that there shall be a publication,
and there has been some difference of opinion on the point. But
it seems to me the publication of the letters renders it indispensa-
ble that the whole should be told. Yet, when it appears, it will
probably include only what is regularly oflicial, so that the pre-
sent question may be pursued independently.

Perhaps you will not think it necessary at first to say to whom
Dallas reported the conversation. Yet, if you deem it essential,
it may be done ; and should it be finally necessary, which is not

^T. 36.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 577

at all probable, General Knox and myself will come forward as
witnesses.

Yours truly, &c.

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON".

Boston, August 24th, 1793.

Dear Sir:

I have tliougbt that in the present state of things it may be
useful for you to know what has been done here relative to the
French claims of a right to fit out privateers in our ports, and
the feelings and conduct of people this way on that subject.
Upon inquiry, I cannot learn that you will have received any
further information than what the newspapers will give you ; but
from them you will not learn all that may be useful. Upon this
subject there is but one opinion in every part, and throughout
this State, except in this town ; and here there are but a few who
advocate the French claims, and these are made up of inveterate
anti-federalists and men desperate in their circumstances.

The former will join any party, and pursue any measures to
embarrass the Union ; and among these are our Governor and
Lieutenant-Governor, and some others in public life, together
with some of the principal ofiicers in your department, employed
in the customs. These have thrown every obstacle in the way
of the merchants and others who have endeavored to check the
spirit for privateering which appeared among our citizens ; and
they encouraged the French consul and his partisans in fitting
out cruisers, by advocating openly their right to do it, and by
more privately advising them how to conduct. Mr. Gore has
exerted himself much to restrain them ; but he has derived no
aid from the custom-house, and he has found it difficult to make
them act even where the line of duty was too clear to be con-
E 37

5T8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 36.

tested ; and where it was not so clear, they have declined moving
at all — their whole weight, indeed, has been obviously in favor
of the French claims and against government. Some of them
have so conducted from habit and inclination, having been al-
ways connected intimately with the disaffected opposers of all
government, whether of the State or the Union ; others may
hereafter appear to have had a particular interest in promoting
the business.

Nor will the executive of our government afford more aid to
the Union. Memorials were presented to the governor by the
merchants and Mr. Gore, when the privateers were fitting out,
stating the facts supported by evidence. This led him to call on
the attorney-general for his opinion, who replied in writing that
the French had no such right by treaty. But the weight of his
privy counsellors over-balanced, aided by his own feelings, every
thing else ; and they were permitted to go out and cruise at the
mouth of our harbors. Fair promises were made of doing what
should appear to be proper ; but no decision was ever had upon
any question, and the French consul met with no interruption
from our government.

In a few days two prizes and a privateer arrived here on the
day when your circular letter made its appearance in the papers.
One of the prizes was replevied by the marshal. He took
possession of her ; but the consul with an armed force from the
frigate dispossessed the marshal and carried the prize under the
stern of the frigate, and gave the captain of the frigate written
orders to protect her from any arrests. The marshal remained
on board, in appearance a prisoner, for three days. Memorials
and remonstrances were made during this time to the governor,
the consul, and the captain of the frigate, to no purpose. The
former would not move in the business — the consul would not
order her to be released, and the cajDtain said he could not re-
lease her by his instructions without an order from the consul,
but added that the latter was a fool and blockhead so to con-
duct. Thus they remained till this day, when the captain of the
frigate, provoked and tired of his situation, went to sea, leaving

iET. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 579

the prizes behind, when the marshal again got possession of the
prize, and has brought her to the wharf.

The other prize, American property, was ordered two days
ago to be also replevied, and the precept given to the sheriS", a
governor's man, who went to ask leave of the consul to take
possession. He was refused leave, and has not dared to do it till
after the frigate was gone, when he ventured on board, but was
soon dispossessed by some armed men, or rather prevented tak-
ing possession, under the orders of the consul.

Thus has a small privateer been fitted out against law, under
the eyes of the custom-house officers and the government of the
State ; she has sent in prizes which have remained here three
days without any step being taken, — our laws have been tram-
pled on, and our executive officers, the marshal and the sheriff,
been prevented by force from doing their duty, by the orders of
a French consul and the captain of this same privateer. The
privateer is again equipping, and when ready will proceed on a
new cruise.

The spirits of the people in town are inflamed. In other
seaports they blaze, and in the country they begin to wax warm.
It would be easy to destroy the privateer, prizes, and crew, but
the laws ought to have their course, and no disorders should be
committed by the people. But the operation of the laws must
be slow and interrupted, when those whose official duty it is to
execute, do themselves obstruct them.

There certainly is not a hundred men in this town who are
even indifferent on this subject; but a full half of them, and the
most zealous against government, are men in public office, either
under the Union or the State government. Strange as it may
seem, the most violent AniVs that we have, are men who eat the
bread of the public ; and this is the effect in most cases of that
accommodating principle of bribing off opposition by offices.

I have taken the liberty of giving this short view of what has
passed, that you may see how far you may rely on the energy
of men in office to execute the laws, from a sense of duty and
upon general principles. Those of the Union, some of them

580 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 36.

will go no farther ttan tlie clear letter of instructions will oblige
them. They like their offices too well to hazard them by diso-
beying positive and clear orders ; but these they will execute
with a slow and heavy movement. And where there is a doubt
they will certainly obstruct. Nor will our State officers, who
reside here, give you more aid ; they are in the vortex of the
governor's influence, and to this they owe their offices. If any
thing is to be done by the officers here of either set, there must
be the full force of clear and positive directions, and there being-
no laws positive, the path of duty is obscure, they must wait ex-
planation. But if directions are given, then by dictating you

offend the sovereignty of the State. They are a crew, and

they will impede all they can.

I think you ought to know your ground to stand firm,
and I have given you not a heightened view of it. My motive
is friendly both as to you and the public, and I am with truth
and respect,

Yours, &c.,

Stephen Higginson.

Mr. Gore has behaved well certainly. I shall be kept out of
sight I know by you, as I wish, unless some good will come of
appearing openly.

SEDGEWICK TO HAMILTON.

Stockbridge, 26th August, 1793.

My Dear Sir :

The inclosed will give you some pleasure, as an indication of
public opinion. It was delivered to a very large assembly com-
prehending almost every man of influence in the county, nine-
teen-twentieths of whom approved the sentiments expressed in
the apostrophe to Louis.

jEt. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 581

We are confidently told, that Congress will assemble before
the constitutional period. I hope not, because it would evince the
influence of the infamously seditious publications which have
abounded in your papers. If indeed the question whether this
country was under obligation to observe a neutrality in the pre-
sent war was a doubtful one, and the executive wished informa-
tion from Congressional investigation, the President's proclama-
tion should not have preceded that event. I have another mo-
tive which induces me to wish this measure may not be adopted,
however reluctant I was, not to be elected a member of the
present house, and some part of that reluctance you was at the
time acquainted with. I should now much regret its not being
in my power to attend ; and at present it would be altogether
impossible. Mrs. Sedgewick, I have reason to hope, is now re-
covering from a most deplorable state of illness. Should my
hopes be gratified, I will not desert my post.

AMES TO HAMILTON.

Boston, August 31st, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

I am happy to see the good effect of the exertions which have
been made to keep our country from meddling with the war. Our
fears have in a degree subsided. They have been strong enough
to give their full impression to the services of the ofl&cers of
government. The public mind seems to be open to receive the
truth. Such periods occur rarely, and ought not to pass away in
vain. There are many topics which ought to be touched. I
have supposed one among many good ones, to be the attempt to
point out the inconsistency of our Jacobins. The execution is de-
fective in two particulars, at least. The catalogue wants addi-

682 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36-

tioBS as well as a better arrangement — and the very words used
by them at different times, might be quoted from the Gazettes
with some effect. Something might be added or altered in the
inclosed, if a proper person would do it. There will be no objec-
tion made to any alterations.

The press is busy here, rather overdone. The enrages are
remarkably in check.

I look forward to the next campaign with concern. I wish
nothing may be omitted to make the people understand the truth,
so well as to disarm the faction who distort it.

My principal object in writing at this time is, to mention to
you the subject of a State being sued. It was seized on here as
you must have seen. The people understand the matter imper-
fectly, and on the whole, I conceive the entire active force of the
State politics to be hostile to the decision. It is supposed the
legislature will vote their censure of the suableness of a State,
and request Congress to propose an amendment — or instruct their
senators and request their representatives to move such an amend-
ment. Is this regular ? The Constitution authorizes two modes
of amending. Either Congress may propose alterations to the
State, or a convention may be called. If specific amendments
should be moved by the States to Congress, is there not a great
mischief lurking in the precedent? However, I waive the cere-
mony of any reply from you, which, busy as you are, is needless.
I wish to call your reflections to the subject, which I think will
be stirred. We cannot doubt it will be so managed as if possible
to make difficulty.

I hope your unremitted cares do not impair your health.
I am, my dear Sir, yours truly,

Fisher Ames.

iEx. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 583

HAMILTON TO MRS. GENERAL GREENE.

Philadelphia, September 3d, 1793.

It is not an uncommon thing for you women, to bring us
poor men into scrapes. It seems you have brought me into one.
You- will wonder how. Hear the tale.

Shortly after I came into office, Wadsworth informed me that
Baron Glaubeck was indebted to General Greene (to whom he
had behaved in a very exceptionable manner), and that it was
intended to endeavor to purchase of Glaubeck some pay which
had been just granted to him by Congress, upon the plan of ad-
vancing to him a certain sum of money to satisfy his immediate
necessities, and the residue that was due to him to be applied to-
wards the indemnification of the General's estate for what Glau-
beck owed to it. I afterwards understood that the execution of
this plan was committed to Flint or Duer, or one or both of
them — and that a purchase of the claim was in fact made — not
indeed of Glaubeck, but of some person to whom he had parted
with it for some trifling consideration — the object being through-
out to benefit you by way of indemnification as above men-
tioned.

It likewise would appear from the Treasury records, that you
have in fact received the whole benefit of the purchase. The
conversations we had together when you were last in Philadel-
phia, assure me at least that the certificate for four-fifths of his
claim accrued immediately to your use.

Francis^ late a clerk in my department (partly from resent-
ment at a disappointment he has met with at the Treasury and
partly, I believe, from its having been made icorth his tvhile by
some political enemies of mine), endeavors to have it believed
that this transaction was a speculation in which I was engaged,
and in proof it — a draft of a power of attorney, corrected by some
interlineations in my handwriting, as he asserts.

I db not recollect this part of the business, though I think it
very possible that such a correction, in such a draft, may have
been made by me.

584 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.^t. 36-

For Duer and Flint, it seems, employed Francis to make the
purchase ; and it is not unlikely that a draft of a power for the
purpose may have been brought to me, to know from me whe-
ther it would answer the purpose of the Treasury as a competent
instrument ; and that I (believing the design to be such as I
have represented, one not only unexceptionable but laudable —
one in which my friendship for you would naturally take part)
may have taken up my pen and made such corrections as the
draft might appear to stand in need of

I give you this detail to show you how I may have been im-
plicated.

What I wish of you is, that you will have the goodness to
state in writing what you know of the aifair ; ascertaining that
the purchase was for your benefit, and the cause of it ; and that
you will take the trouble to make affidavit to the statement, and
forward it to me.

As it is an affair of delicacy, I will thank you to request
some gentleman of the law to give form and precision to your
narrative.

You perceive that it is not in one way only that I am the
object of unprincipled persecution ; but I console myself with
the lines of the poet —

He needs must be of optics keen,
Who sees what is not to be seen.

And with this belief, that in spite of calumny, the friends I love
and esteem, will continue to love and esteem me.

Yours, sincerely. A. H.

HAMILTON TO WADSWORTH.

Philadelphia. Sept. 3, 1793.

My Dear Wadsworth: ♦

Shortly after I came into office I remember your having told
me that Glaubeck (whom you represented as a worthless and un-

^T. 36.] CORRESPONDENCE. 585

grateful fellow) was indebted to General Greene's estate, I think,
for money lent him, and that it was your intention to endeavor
to effect a purchase of his public claim, and allow him some part
of it for his immediate necessities, letting the residue be an in-
demnification [original illegible] estate ; or, in other words, go to
the [original illegible] that he would [original illegible] something
[original illegible] you left the city ; that you had left the business
in charge with Flint.

The purchase of the claim was afterwards made through a
second hand, and it appears in fact that Mrs. Greene has had the
benefit of it.

Francis, lately a clerk in my department, prompted partly by
resentment, and partly, I believe, by some political enemies, gives
out that I assisted in this affair as a speculation^ and to prove it,
shows the draft of a power for assigning the claim, with some
corrections, which are said to be in my handwriting.

Whether this be so or not I really do not now recollect, but I
think it very possible that having understood the matter in the
light I have stated from you, and viewing the transaction [origi-
nal illegible] precision the course of the transaction as it stands
in your recollection, particularly what passed between you and
myself in the first instance. If not inconvenient to you, I should
even be glad that you would attest to it.

Yours affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

AFFLECK TO HAMILTON.

New- York, 7th Sept., 1793.

Sir:

A Mr. G. Francis, lately from your office, waited on Thomas
Basen, and asked him if he recollected any thing of a certificate
he had bought of him about two years ago. Basen answered he
did. Francis told Basen he was employed by you to purchase,
and that he had of you fifty dollars for his trouble ; and that you

586 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

then said the profits was to be applied to the benefit of the widow
of Greene, but that you applied them to your own emolument.
Two or three days after this interview, Basen was waited on by
a lawyer from Philadelphia, who put to Basen nearly the same
questions as Francis had done, adding, " that Basen would recol-
lect himself, for that he would be called upon that session." On
Tuesday last, a printed pamphlet, containing twenty-three pages
octavo, was handed to Basen by Francis, desiring him to peruse
it till next day, when Francis returned and presented a paper to
Basen to sign, but Basen declined signing it, for the fact is, he
can neither read nor write. The pamphlet was given to me to
peruse by a neighbor, but being sent in a few minutes I had not
leisure to examine it. I have tried to get it since, but cannot.

I have mentioned the affair to Mr. E. Benson, and I doubt
not but he has notified you by this time.

My sole motive in troubling you with this communication, is
to put you on your guard — that you may be able to thwart the
efforts of malice^ envy^ and treachery^ which generally, and parti-
cularly in this case, are combined against uncommon abilities and
worth.

With great respect, I am. Sir,
Your humble servant,

W. Affleck.

P. S. — If my services can be of any use in the business, you
may command them.

WADSWORTH TO HAMILTON.

Hartford, September 13th, 1793.

Dear Sir :

I was out of town when your letter reached this place, and
have this moment returned. Glaubeck, when under the com-
mand of General Greene, persuaded the General to endorse his
bills, which came back protested, and when Glaubeck made ap-

Mt.36.] correspondence. 587

plication to Congress for compensation, I opposed his claim, and
considered him what General Greene called him in his letters to
Congress, then on file (an impostor). "When he had obtained a
grant he promised to apply some of it to the discharge of General
Greene's demand, but he avoided me. I went to your oflEice, and
finding he had actually taken out his certificates, and not finding
him at his lodgings, I returned to the office, and Mr. ISTourse showed
me the books, and that some foreign officer's debts had been
transferred, I went directly to you and asked your aid, as I
was satisfied Glaubeck intended to sell his certificate and fly the
country. Accordingly, to the best of my recollection, 3^ou drew
me a power, but Glaubeck got information that I was after him,
and kejDt concealed.

Being obliged to leave New- York I employed Mr, Flint, who
told me he could find him ; but he sold the certificate, I think
to Francis, who Mr. Flint purchased it of, and Mrs. Greene
actually had it, I have no doubt Mr. Flint can give full infor-
mation. How Francis came by the power I know not, but be-
lieve he was directed to copy it. When I accounted with Mr,
Flint for the purchase I charged the money to Mrs. Greene ; as
it had cost so much, I did not think it an object for the estate.
She has since repaid me.

I am, dear Sir,

Your humble servant,

Jer'h. Wadsworth.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Paris, October 17th, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

Mr. Livingston delivered to me yours of the 25th of July,
He says that you alone gave him an idea of this country like the
reality. His astonishment proves that he did not believe you,
and, could you hear him, you might, in your turn, be astonished

588 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 36.

to find that your sound understanding, while it grasped the
future event, had never contemplated the progressive circum-
stances. I leave to others the painful task of drawing pictures,
which, to resemble the truth, must, like an Indian warrior, be
painted red and black.

It is in your character of financier, that I transmit the an-
nexed report, which suspended for a few doubtful days the weight^
which, with crushing force, falls on the moneyed men. Early in
1789, I ventured to declare, from what I then observed, that the
laws of property being violated, all would, in their turns, be
sacrificed on the same altar. Already the church, the magistra-
ture, the nobility, have passed away. Bankers, merchants, and
manufacturers, are now in the crucible. I leave to your alge-
braic science to resolve the problem of how long a su|)posed
society can exist, after property shall have been done away.
Perhaps you may be too busy to form equations, and may reply
as a statesman, that government being instituted to protect pro-
perty, is respected only in proportion to the fulfilment of that
duty, and durable only as it is respectable. I respect you too
much to contradict your opinions, and therefore confine myself
to the more agreeable task of assuring you, that

I am, &c.,

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

HAMILTON TO COL. OLNEY.

Philadelphia, Nov. 26, 1793.

Dear Sir :

Some embarrassment has arisen on the subject of a fit person
for District Attorney of Ehode Island. Mr. Howel has been
strongly recommended on the one hand, and positively objected

to on another ; and Mr. has been proposed in opposition.

Your opinion does not appear on either side.

The President is desirous of further information, and I have
undertaken to procure it for him. In addressing myself to you

iET. 36.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 589

on the point, I proceed on an assurance of your judgment and
candor. I request your ideas of the candidates fully and freely,
promising that it shall not in any shape compromit you. Be so
good as to state not only the qualifications of each, hut the col-
lateral circumstances affecting the ;puhlic service, which will be likely
to attend the appointment of either.

It is regretted that the affair has assumed too much a party
complexion. This suggests an inquiry whether there be not
some third character competent, eligible, and who would not be
liable to a similar difiiculty. The more speedy your answer, the
more it will oblige.

KING TO HAMILTON.

New-York, 26 Nov., 1793.

Dear Sir :

About a fortnight since I wrote to you, intimating the pro-
babihty that Mr. Jay and I should call upon you and General
Knox, on the subject of Mr. Genet's declaration that he would
appeal from the President to the people. A letter of this date
from Mr. Jay and me, will inform you and the General of the
present posture of this business. You will perceive that the
statement that we have concluded to publish is an exact trans-
cript of your letter to me of the 13th of August, omitting such
circumstances as you desired should not be communicated, and
containing only such as you permitted to be freely used.

Although this statement goes beyond the fact of Genet's
declaration that he would appeal to the people, yet the history
of the transaction, in the course of which the declaration was
made, shows that the interview between Genet and Dallas re-
spected a public concern, and that Dallas' authority was derived
from the President. We have, therefore, thought it requisite to
announce to the public that we should shortly lay before them a
particular statement of the evidence and circumstances of the
transactions.

590 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

Albany, Jan. 5th, 1794.

My Dear Sir :

We are alarmed at the state of my dear Eliza's health ; nor
are we without apprehensions on your account, from what you
say in your letter of the 26th ult. I fear much from the inces-
sant application which you are under the necessity to give to
the business of your department, increased as it of consequence
must be, whilst Congress is in session. I have hitherto been
much averse to the determination you mentioned to me, but
when I reflect on the danger which your health is exposed to,
on the incompetent reward for the most arduous and important
services, and the chagrin you experience from the weakness or
wickedness of those you have to contend with, I am reconciled
to your intentions.

I hope the real friends to liberty and good order will not
suffer themselves to be entrapped by the wily arts of those who
wish for confusion, that they may fish in troubled waters ; and
yet I have much apprehension, as the honest and well-meaning
are seldom — very seldom — sufficiently on their guard.

As the balance against this State would not have been so
extensive, if the Executive and his incompetent auditor had
severally done what was incumbent on them, as their neglect has
already been hinted to the public, I believe that side of the
question will not promote much stir on the occasion, and I do
not conceive that it will be difficult to prevent the other from
doing it.

I am advised that a credit in my favor is lodged in the Branch
Bank of New- York, for the purpose of purchasing goods for the
six nations of Indians. If you have written to me on the subject,
the letter has miscarried, or is still on its way to me.

Adieu, my dear sir. We all join in the wishes which affec-
tion dictates.

Yours ever, &c.,

Ph. Schuyler.

iET. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 591

ONEIDA INDIANS TO HAMILTON.

Oneida. January 15th, 1794.

Brother, attend to our Words:

We write to you in particular, because some of us know you.
We have all liea,rd that you are a friend to every body — Indians
as well as white people. We rejoice to hear it. We always
want friends among our brothers, the white people. But should
the troubles which afflict the nations over the great waters reach
this country, we shall again more particularly stand in need of
the friendship of our brethren, the people of the United States.
Nobody can tell what may happen. We think it would be good,
and we wish you, brother, to recommend it to Congress, to ad-
vise the Senecas and Onondagas at Buffalo Creek to send some
of their children to be educated at a school which is erected in
our neighborhood, where we have sent some of our children to
learn to read and write, and that provision be made for their
support. We think that such a measure would serve to
strengthen and brighten the chain of friendship with those na-
tions. Brother, we salute you. This is all we have to say.

His

John x Skanondo.

mark.
His

Peter x Oneyomka.

mark.
His

John x Onondigo,

mark.
His

Peter x Sade Karinghlin.

mark.
His

LoDwiCK x Kaghsaweta.

mark.
His

Cornelius x Kahiktoton.

mark.
His

Thomas x Shononghsis.

mark.
His

Daniel x Skanondo.

mark.

592 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

MOYLAN" TO HAMILTON.

Loan Office, Pennsylvania, Jan'y 29th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

With regret I mention it, that perhaps the letter you will re-
ceive with this will be the last official one I shall have occasion
to write to you. I cannot let it go without paying the just
tribute due to you for the ease which the systematic arrange-
ments made for this office has rendered the execution of its duties
to me.

Accept, sir, the wish of a sincere friend, which is, that your
happiness in private life may, if possible, exceed your public
virtues. Believe me, with every sentiment of gratitude and
esteem,

Dear Sir,

Your obedient and very humble servant,

Stephen Moylan.

DAVID ROSS TO HAMILTON.

Bladensburgh, March 21st, 1794.

Dear Sir :

Colonel M passed through this place yesterday, in the

stage, on his way, as he says, to Congress ; yet he may, perhaps,
be going no further than Baltimore ; but, if he should go on, it
is probable he will be satisfied to have the appearance of closing
the correspondence with you, as I find he never sent forward to
the office your last, and has now withdrawn the whole of the
papers. If, however, I should be mistaken, and he should
answer your last, I need not again express my sentiments as to
your putting yourself on a footing with him. If any thing
should take place, I hope to be informed by you, as no de-
pendence can be put on the representation of it by Colonel
M .

iET. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 593

I was sorrj I missed you, several times before I left the city,
on the subject of Britain's then unexpected conduct towards this
country, which is now believed ; and Sedgwick's motions in Con-
gress are supposed to be brought forward in consequence of such,
belief. Those I have yet seen in your city and this State, who
were the most inclined for peace, and opposed to Madison's reso-
lutions, are for very spirited measures, if a war cannot be avoided ;
but they have a confidence, also, that no precipitate conduct will
involve us, but that we shall rather give Britain an opportunity
(after showing ourselves prepared even for offensive operations)
of altering her measures in time to avoid a war. At any rate,
the idea is, that if any declaration takes place, it should be first
on the part of Britain ; and that we should not do as the French
did — attach the people of England to the measures of their ad-
ministration, by a hasty declaration of war, instead of continuing
only acts of retaliation.

A judgment can be formed of the principles on which Madi-
son's resolutions have been brought forward and supported, by
the part their advocates take on Sedgwick's resolutions.

Yours, in haste,

David Eoss.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(PBIVATE.)

May 6th, 1791
In answering your note of yesterday respecting the request
of Mr. Talleyrand de Perigord, I do not hesitate to declare, that
I find it difficult to hit upon a line of conduct towards characters
— under the description that gentleman is — emigrants — that is
satisfactory to my own mind, or, more properly, that is free
from exception, by avoiding what may seem incivility on one
hand, or unpleasant political consequences on the other.

I can perceive very clearly, that the consequence of receiving
E 88

594 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

these characters into the public rooms, will be driving the French
minister from them. His visits are much less frequent than they
were, and an occurrence on Tuesday last (which shall be men-
tioned when you call here) has left no doubt as to the cause.

A particular introduction of these characters (out of the usual
course) would, I presume, be more noticed than the reception of
them in public. It has become expedient, therefore, in my
opinion, that principles should be adopted in these cases (not
only for the conduct of the President, but the executive officers
also) by which evils may be avoided, and uniformity observed.
What these had best be deserves consideration.

My wish is, and it is not less my duty, as an officer of the
Republic, to avoid offence to powers with whom we are in friend-
ship, by conduct towards their proscribed citizens which would
be disagreeable to them ; whilst, at the same time, these emigrants,
if people of good character, ought to understand that they will
be protected in their persons and property, and will be entitled
to all the benefits of our laws, — for the rest, they must depend
upon their own behavior, and the civilities of citizens at large,
who are less restrained by political considerations than the offi-
cers of government must be.

Yours always.

WILLIAMSON TO HAMILTON.

Edonton, May 27th, 1794,

Dear Sir :

In travelling through the country, I have lately observed a
considerable uniformity of sentiment among the people, with a
great want of consistence, of which they do not themselves appear
to be conscious. There are frequent complaints of the want of
vigorous measures in the Executive, to resent the insults of the
British nation. This they receive from a certain class of politi-
cians and political writers. There is also an observation almost

iET.37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 595

universal among the planters, that fifteen or twenty years longer
peace would make us so rich and powerful, that we should des-
pise the attempts of any nation on earth. This opinion is their
own, and they seem not to suspect, until the system is explained,
that the advocates for vigorous measures are, in effect, courting
a general war, in the hope of destroying public credit and over-
turning a government to which they have been uniform enemies.
I verily believe that this war-making project, when well under-
stood, will produce a considerable apostasy from anti-federalism.
By this day's post, I have, at the request of gentlemen con-
cerned, forwarded certain papers to Mr. Eandolph. Probably
well-authenticated claims to reparation will be sent after Mr. Jay,
in support of his complaints. The case of Mr. Armistead, that
I have forwarded, seems to have been a clear robbery, unpallia-
ted by excuse. Our people are, in general, fair traders.
I am, dear Sir, with the utmost respect.

Your most obedient servant,

Hu. Williamson.

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON.

Boston, June 17th, 1794.

Dear Sir :

Mr. Cabot has mentioned to me that Mr. Cox was inquiring
relative to our trade to Sweden, and intimated that government
wanted to get from thence a parcel of copper and iron. I have
two vessels now going to Gottenberg, and will import any articles
that may be wanted at the same advance or benefit as I shall
get upon common iron, if the articles can be got ready in time to
come in them. Should the articles wanted not be prepared in
time for these vessels, they may be prepared to come by some
later ones.

We have, this day, letters from Jamaica informing us that
the packet with the orders of January 8th arrived there May

596 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

8th, in consequence of whicli all our vessels were liberated. Two
of tlie masters, whose vessels were released, write thus to their
owners, and letters from a good house there give the same in-
formation.

I congratulate you upon the report relative to your depart-
ment. Master Giles, I think, must feel very much mortified ;
and his constituents cannot be gratified at seeing him placed so
far in the background.

I rejoice also to find that Congress are up, and that their
session has closed so much better than there was reason to appre-
hend at some periods.

With sentiments of respect, I am, Sir,

Your very humble servant,

Stephen Higginson.

HETH TO HAMILTON.

Shillelah, 6th Jvily, 1794.
Accept, I pray you, my dear friend, of my sincerest congratula-
tions, on your second and complete triumph over the invidious
persecutions of a base faction. The Keport of the Committee of
Congress, has turned out precisely as your friends here had pre-
dicted. " The more you probe, examine, and investigate Hamil-
ton's conduct, rely upon it, the greater he will appear." But it
was a cruel thing in Congress, and somewhat unprecedented, I
presume, to oblige your persecutors and prosecutors to sit as your
judges, and what was more ill-natured — to compel them to make
a report, by which they were obliged ***** mortification
surely — to convict you of purity of conduct, unshaken integrity,
and a competent watchfulness over the public interest. This
was *"** hard upon them, to be sure. And how one of them,
who had pledged himself to convict you of nothing less than

yET.37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 597

"high crimes and misdemeanors," can get the better of his
chagrin, or meet some of his credulous and deluded constituents,
without shame and confusion, I am at a loss to account. Nothing,
surely, can carry him through, but that consummate vanity and
ambition, which first tempted him to make so unprovoked and
so unwarrantable an attack. He has been completely mortified, at
a public meeting, in his own district, since his return. Instead of
entertaining all companies, as heretofore, with declamations on
the abuses in the Treasury Department, not a single syllable was
uttered about Hamilton or his conduct — he was " as mute as a
Jishy No notice was taken of any of the toasts which he gave ;
while those given by Carrington were huzzaed and applauded.
The report will be published in our papers ; when the people at
large will find that they have been shamefully imposed upon —
for, when rightly informed, they will determine right. They will
immediately discover that it was impossible for that man's hands
even to be soiled with public money, whom they had been taught
to believe had appropriated thousands to the use of himself and
his friends. They will find that an able and faithful servant
hath been vilely slandered, and most cruelly calumniated. See-
ing these things, they will naturally draw their own conclusions.
The result, very probably, may not turn out much to the advan-
tage of the leader of the forlorn hope.

I am sorry, my dear sir, as a citizen of the United States,
and a friend to our government, to understand that you are pre-
paring to retire. Your loss will be felt. But, as a private friend,
I cannot but be pleased at your endeavoring to find that con-
tentment and happiness in private pursuits, which no public em-
ployment can possibly afibrd. And your constitution must have
received a shock, which will require time, much tranquillity of
mind, and cheerful company to restore.

598 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

CAREINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, July 9th, 1794.

My Dear Sir:

I do not •write this letter as congratulatory upon the final
issue of the Inquiry into the Treasury Dej^artment, as I never
conceived you exposed to receive injury therefrom. I write to
express my most sincere wishes that you will not suffer the illi-
berality with which you have been treated, to deprive the public
of your services, at least until the storm which hangs over us,
and is to be dreaded, not less from our own follies and vices than
the malignance and intrigues of foreigners, blows over. It is true
you have been abused, but this has been, and still is, the fate of
him who was supposed out of the reach of all slander. It is in-
deed the lot, in some degree, of every man amongst us who has
the sense or fortitude to speak and act rationally, and such men
must continue so to speak and act, if we are saved from anarchy.

If there have been a number of copies of the Keport of the
Committee printed, I wish you to send me as many as you can,
that they may be dispersed in this State. I can assure you that
your enemies are much less loquacious on the subject than they
once were ; and there having been pretty confident assurances
made, that the issue of the inquiry would consign the Secretary
of the Treasury to infamy, expectations have been so fixed on
that object, that the disappointment is by no means unnoticed.
The manner in which the renewal of the business came forward,
and the very long and deliberate course which it was suffered to
take, in the hands of the accusers themselves, give the issue its
best effect. Should John Jay be successful in his mission, our
good democrats, I fear, will lose too much of their influence to
be useful guardians against the strides of aristocracy. His ap-
pointment is now the theme for declamation. These watchmen
may perhaps experience the same neglect from the great body of
the people, as is instanced in the fable of the Shepherd's Boy
and the Wolves. Indeed, I am fully persuaded, that the appa-

Mt. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 599

rent attention they now receive, is by no means a real one ; they
speak loud in many places, and no one speaks against them ;
hence they claim a general concurrence of the people with them.
But I have never yet seen an experiment tried of a counterac-
tion, but it has produced good effects.

Let me have some copies of the Eeport if you can, and be-
lieve me to be, with great sincerity and truth,

Your friend and servant,

Edward Carringtok

HIGGrN-SON TO HAMILTON.

Boston, July 10th, 1794.

Dear Sir: ^^^

I received your lette^^^Bine 24th, and have noted your
observations relative to ^^^^Kind iron for the frigates. I be-
lieve the decision to f^Sffl^^Knglaud for the copper, is right.
It is very doubtful, with me, whether you will find copper in
Sweden properly fitted for sheathing, and not certain that they
can there prepare it equal to the English. Sheet copper was
imported from Gottenburg, last war, for our privateers ; but it
was so thick and badly drawn that it was not used ; and it was
then said, that in Sweden they had no works capable of doing it
nearly equal to the British. But iron may certainly be got
from Sweden and Eussia, of the best quality, and on the lowest
terms.

We have here had much experience, by trial, of the qualities
of the duck manufactured, in this town; so, also, must they
have had in Philadelphia, for large parcels have been there sold
and used. Our experience certainly does not support the sug-
gestions you mention ; it is esteemed here less subject to mildew
and shrinking than any other. I have, indeed, never heard of

600 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

its taving mildewed in one instance. The varnisli or sizing
here used, being animal instead of vegetable, made from cow-
heels, may guard it against both those defects. It is a novel
improvement, originating with this manufactory, and intended
to prevent both mildew and shrinking. The former, it cer-
tainly has well effected, and the latter, as far as practicable,
perhaps.

How does it appear, that duck made of flax is more liable to
mildew and shrink than that made of hemp ? The Russia duck
is said to be made wholly of hemp, and that we know will both
shrink and mildew. The duck made in England is made wholly
of flax ; so, also, is the Irish and Dutch, I believe ; and all these
will both shrink and mildew. Hemp, when tarred and made
into cordage, will shrink so much, that vessels' shrouds, in long
rains or fogs, will break by mere force of contraction, when
sufficiently slack before to be safe. The superintendent of this
manufactory is an Englishman, bred up under his father, who
had the care of one of the king's^|[g|||^ies in England ; he seems
to be a complete master of the ^^^mve part of the business,
and to have a thorough knowle(^^^«he flax and other materi-
als, as to quality and preparing IHHPbut he is full of prejudice,
as those people generally are. He says, that the fibre of hemp
is too hard and wire-like to make good warp for duck ; it will
cut the filling, and the cloth will crack away. This may be
true, when not properly prepared and softened ; but that quality
may be done away by curing and dressing ; and this is exempli-
fied in a new factory, where hemp only is used. But it may be
true that the hemp-fibre, with every art, cannot be reduced so
fijie or made so even as that of flax ; and this difference may be
in favor of using flax for duck, rather than hemp. All other
things being equal, the fine fibre will make the cloth more firm
and even, .and of course will wear better.

I have clothed a number of vessels with our duck, and it has
certainly worn better than either Eussia or English of common
qualities. The experience of others who have used it, has here
established its reputation fully ; and our sailmakers all say that

^T.37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 601

it wears longer tlian those others, and never has proved liable to
mildew like them. Having often made sails of this, and of Rus-
sia or English at the same time, for the same vessels, where they
have had equal wear, the opinion of the sailmakers, after view-
ing them when they were returned to them for repair or exami-
nation, ought to have much weight'; it is perhaps the best evi-
dence we can have in the case.

Upon the whole, I believe that better duck can be got
from this factory than any that can be found in our market im-
ported from Europe ; perhaps as good as we could obtain by a
special order, and a particular desire to have the best imported.
If an order be given in time for them to select the best flax — to
have it spun and wove purposely for the frigates — I have no
doubt they will be well clothed ; and I am persuaded they will
take due pains, because the superintendent and proprietors are
desirous to supply the duck. I ought perhaps to say that I
have no interest in the factory, was this opinion to be given to
the public. ..

The rupture between Eo^gal and Algiers is renewed,— an
event very favorable to our'4#iiperce, and tending to quiet tur-
bulent spirits. Would it not be grateful to Portugal, and useful
to our country, to form a convention with her relative to those
robbers ? If we say, that having a common interest with her
in confining them within the straits, we will keep three or four
ships to assist in doing it, as soon as they can be built and fitted,
she may agree to make no truce with them without our consent,
on giving a year's or six months' notice.

I wish Mr. Jay, with our ministers at Paris and London, were
authorized to offer themselves as mediators, should the appear-
ances in Europe clearly evidence a disposition to make peace, in
the powers at war. The existing state of things may, and pro-
bably will, be such, as that all parties may earnestly wish for
peace; but the causes, objects, and circumstances of this war are
novel and extraordinary, and may prevent any overtures for
want of mediation.

What power in Europe so likely to be used for this as

602 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

America ? Eussia the Frencli will refuse, and neither France
nor Britain will prefer Sweden or Denmark to us for the pur-
pose. Mr. Jay may be intrusted with the commission, and the
others not know it. He may readily learn the British pulse on
this point ; and he may collect the disposition of France by
inquiring of our minister in Paris, without stating the object of the
inquiry. With the other parties there will be no difficulty, if
those two agree upon a mediator. At least we may have some
chance of being joined with some other power in mediating, and
this would be both honorary and useful to us.

The present is a critical and important period in European
affairs ; and I wish that we may be vigilant and prepared to
make the most of events that may arise. This must apologize
for my adding these ideas, which probably are not new to you,
to a letter sufficiently long before. I must subjoin, however,
that within a short time there may be a favorable period for
making a commercial treaty with Britain, if it be eligible to
have one.

Wishing you every thing desirable, I am, with much respect,
your very humble servant,

Stephen Higginson.

P. S. A vessel has just arrived from Brest in 46 days. The
captain told me that a brig had arrived there from the Chesapeake
fleet, and was sent back directly ; that 44 sail of the line sailed
next day, six days before he sailed; that four days after he
sailed, he met the same fleet joined by others, making 52 sail,
expecting hourly to see the Chesapeake fleet ; that they had a
great number of cruising ships beside, which intercepted every
thing going in or out of the Channel ; that 42 sail of ships bound
to the W. I., with provisions, were taken from the British, and
had arrived in Brest, beside other ships, making 160 sail while
he was there about six weeks. He says that they had in Brest
the account of the Duke of York's defeat, and of some victories
over the Spaniards. This vessel, with other Americans, carried
into Brest with flour, &;c., had their cargoes taken by govern-

jet.si.] correspondence. 603

ment, but covild not get pay for them. She came here in ballast,
and the captain stayed behind to wait for payment. This is not
good usage.

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON".

July 12th, 1794.
Two days ago a schooner arrived here from Barbadoes with
Bugars to my address. She was one of those vessels that had
been carried into that island, and condemned unjustly, no doubt,
like many others — was bought by persons in Barbadoes, • and
chartered to bring sugars here, and to return with provisions,
&c. She was known at once to have belonged to Mr. Brown, of
Newbury, by people who saw her, and were in Barbadoes when
she was condemned. This first instance of such a vessel's com-
ing here excited much irritation ; and a large number were all
day yesterday hovering about her, clamoring and threatening to
destroy her. The Jacobins seized the occasion, and made the
most of it. A large mob was last night collected, when they
drove the captain and people out of her ; they cut her rigging,
unhung her rudder, took down her topmasts and yards, and
meant perhaps to go farther : but many having collected to re-
strain them, aided by a magistrate, they went no farther, and in
fact have done no great injury. But it is evident to me, from
circumstances and characters who appeared, that this was in-
tended as an insult to the British, to serve as an engine to counter-
act the arrangements of the President, to defeat the mission of
Mr, Jay, to furnish the British with new grounds to ward off our
claims to indemnity for their depredations, to keep up the tem-
per of our people, which had become moderate, to excite new
resentment with the British, and widen the breach so as to keep
Mr. Jay at a distance.

604 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^T. 37.

This conduct here is intended to serve as a precedent, or
watchword to the Jacobins in other places, to show them how
they are to conduct upon like occasions ; and should there hap-
pen to arrive in different parts of the Union a number of such
vessels, there may be created a strong appearance of disorder in
the people, of weakness in the government, and of general hatred
to the British, By such measures a small number may make a
great noise ; may occasion an appearance very much against the
negotiations of Mr. Jay, alarming and provoking to the British,
and tending to intimidate our own good citizens. I think I am
not mistaken as to the source and object of this disorder, this
outrage. It is nothing in itself, and would have no effect per-
haps at home or abroad ; but, when viewed as a precedent, to be
followed in all such cases, it wears a serious aspect. The Jacobin
system and arrangements are well adapted to their purposes.
They make the most of every incident. They alarm, provoke,
and intimidate by appearances much more formidable than the
fact. With this clue you may perhaps judge better of events or
measures that may occur. It requires the eyes of Argus to watch
and to discover the movements and pursuits of that party ; and,
with all the attention and wisdom of the Executive, I fear they
may yet embarrass, if not involve us.

Yours,

Stephen HiGGiNsoisr.

CORBIN TO HAMILTON".

Buckingham, Middlesex, Virginia, July 20th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

Calumny and misrepresentation are the only weapons made
use of by the faction of Virginia. By a dexterous management
of these, they have brought into popular disrepute, and even into
popular odium, some of the wisest and best characters in the
United States.

Men of more than common discernment have been seduced

iET. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 605

by their artifices, and the voice of Truth has been silenced by
the noise of Falsehood,

The temporary ascendency which the latter has acquired
over the former, is owing to fear and ignorance. To a fear of in-
curring unpopularity by defending those who have been rendered
unpopular, and to a want of sufficient information to undertake
and support their defence. Fortified with facts, one bold advo-
cate for truth might not despair, however, in the course of a sin-
gle session of our legislature, of bafiling the shallow pretences of
calumny and the party.

If, by a zeal in the cause of virtue and talents, apportioned
to the violence and virulence with which they are attacked, it
could be brought within the compass of my feeble exertions to
become their advocate, I would cheerfully undertake the task.

Until the phalanx, into which the faction is embodied, be
broken, this unhappy State can never expect to see itself repre-
sented, as it might be, in Congress.

War is waged by this faction against every candidate who
possesses the union of requisites. Independent fortune, inde-
pendent principles, talents and integrity are denounced as badges
of aristocracy ; but if you add to these good manners and a de-
cent appearance, his political death is decreed without the benefit
of a hearing. In short, with a few exceptions, every thing that
appertains to the character of a gentleman is ostracised. That
yourself and Mr. Jay should be no favorites in Virginia, is not
to be wondered at.

But all those whose good opinion is worth your acceptance,
entertain for you both the same veneration and esteem, and hear
the aspersions of your enemies with the same indignation as I
do, who, after the closest examination and the purest conviction,
can conscientiously subscribe myself, with every sentiment of
sincerity and regard,
Dear Sir,

Your most faithful and obedient servant,

* Thomas Corbin.

606 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

CAERINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, August 25th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

You have, upon sundry occasions, done me the favor to re-
quest my opinion upon the public sentiment in Virginia. Con-
ceiving that there can never have been an occurrence giving you
greater anxiety than the present insurgency in the western parts
of Pennsylvania, or upon which a knowledge of the public
opinions and dispositions here could be more interesting, I anti-
cipate your request, and proceed to give you that information
in which I feel myself very confident. Virginia will do her duty.
The requisition of the President, and as many more as the State
find it necessary to make, will be complied with, with alacrity.

It is a case which goes home to the people themselves, and
they will act according to their own principles. It is not one of
those cases in which they remain silent while democratic societies,
British debtors, and other factions presume to declare, in resolu-
tions and toasts, opinions for them. The great body of the peo-
ple of Virginia are independent planters and farmers, much at-
tached to liberty, property and domestic happiness, and busy
themselves but little about public concerns — unless they feel
that these blessings are brought into danger. Hence it is, that
factious men, for a time, succeed in giving a complexion to the
conduct of the country very different from the real temper of the
people ; and this is a misfortune under which Virginia has been
placed for several years. Virtuous men have been cried down
under a ding of monarchy, aristocracy, British influence, and
French republicanism — terms to which no rational significations
have been applied, because they have seriously recollected that
we had a country and government of our own, and, in Congress
and elsewhere, voted to preserve and prosper them. These
clamors have been set up and propagated with a degree of in-
dustry which none have with equ'al zeal opposed. Investiga-
tions for the truth have been beyond the reach of the multitude,
which has, of course, gone with the clamor. But the people of

^T.37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 607

Virginia mean to be right wlieii they can be in possession of tbe
truth. The insurgency is a case in which the truth cannot be
veiled. The great body of the country know that the govern-
ment they have chosen for themselves is a republican one, to be
directed by a majority, and when a minority openly resists the
laws passed by a majority, and thus counteracts the most essen-
tial principle of republicanism, the truth stands too fully exposed
to be perverted. Pretended republicans are compelled to sup-
port the government, or to exhibit themselves in their true char-
acter of anarchists. Taking the first turn they may not do us
much good, but taking the latter, they lose the power of doing
evil. These are my reflections on the subject, and the accounts
received from the different parts of the State, assure me that the
real state of the opinions and conduct of the country are in con-
cord with them.

I hope and trust that a radical extirpation will be effected in
this instance ; a patched-up reconciliation will only leave the em-
bers of sedition to be rekindled with greater violence at a future
day. There must be a complete conquest and serious exam-
ples of the leaders in the business.

I am, with great regard,

Your friend and servant,

Ed. Cakrington.

P. S. Should you be of opinion that a publication without
names of this letter, or any part, will be of service, you have my
consent thereto.

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Norfolk, 2d Sept., '94,

Dear Hamilton:

I am extremely chagrined on finding from your private letter
accompanying your public letter, that the intended secrecy is

608 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

entirely baffled as it respected tlie call on me to take care of tlie
insurgents.

Being absent from Richmond on a visit to the forts at ISTor-
folk, the public letter was opened by the Lieutenant-Governor,
and there being no injunction of secrecy in it, the purport waa
divulged without ceremony, and before I received my letters the
report reached me of my late appointment.

I do not believe any thing but good will result from thia
accident in this State, for I am persuaded it will accelerate the
readiness of the troops, and I am confident General Morgan will
prefer me to any other ; nor can he consider his former relative
claim slighted, inasmuch as he is in the habit of obeying me aa
Commander-in-Chief of the militia, in which character I shall
act, if sad necessity so decrees. However, knowing his value,
and anxious to prevent any disturbance of harmony, I wrote to
him yesterday in terms suitable for the object I contemplated,
and hope my letter will have its designed effect.

When I return to Eichmond, which will be very soon, I will
see Carrington.

I love him dearly, and should prefer him to any other in the
character you suggest; but you ought to weigh well the objec-
tion you mention, for such is the temper of the people, and such
the eventful crisis, that no measure, however wise, ought to be
adopted which furnishes fuel for the discontented political de-
claimers in which the United States abound.

The honor you propose as possible, I receive with every re-
spect due to your goodness and friendship, and I well know the
extensive good I should derive from your wisdom, zeal, and sin-
cerity ; but really when you talk of acting in a station so infe-
rior, you add to the awkwardness of my feelings, which I assure
you are too much so already for that tranquillity of mind indis-
pensable for the conducting of business great and difiicult. A
good Adjutant-General pray secure, and save Mifflin's feelings.

God bless you,

H. Lee.

.Et. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 609

HAMILTON TO KING.

Philadelphia, September 17th, 1794.

When you recollect, that I have two departments on my
shoulders, and when I tell you that I have been out of health in
the bargain, you Avill perhaps admit an excuse for my not an-
swering sooner your letter some time since received.

Mr. Jay has given nothing conclusive. His letters to the
26th of June barely gave the idea that appearances were not
unfavorable. The last letter, T forget the date, but it came by
the last arrival at New-York, refers to letters which were not
received, but which are supposed to have been confided to the
Portuguese minister. This letter is couched in the same cautious
terms, considers the scale as capable of turning either way, and
advises not to relax in military preparation. The ministry, how-
ever, have certainly continued to countenance shipments to this
country, and very large ones were making. It is a strange, mys-
terious business. The change in administration had made some
pause in the negotiation,

Nothing from the "Western country authorizes an expectation
of a pacific termination of that business. All the militia are going
forward as fast as they can be got forward, Virginia, all below
the mountains, is zealous; beyond, neutral in conduct and divided
in affection, Jersey is also zealous ; so are the eastern shore of
Maryland and the town of Baltimore, Thence to Frederictown
a pretty good temper prevails ; beyond that a very insurgent
spirit and some insurrection. In Philadelphia an excellent and
productive zeal, embracing all parties, has been kindled. A good
spirit wall generally pervade the old counties. But there is much
bad leaven in the new counties, this side of, as well as beyond
the mountains — Cumberland, Franklin, Mifflin, and even North-
umberland,

Governor Lee is at the head of the Virginia militia, and will
command if the President does not go out ; he is all zeal. Gov-
ernor Howel, with equal zeal, was to march from Trenton to-day
with the van of the Jersey militia, consisting of 500 horse. Miflf-
E 89

610 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

lin, who at first showed some untoward symptoms, appears now
to be exerting himself in earnest and with great effect, and goes
at the head of his mihtia.

The President will be governed by circumstances. If the
thing puts on an appearance of magnitude, he goes — if not, he
stays. There is a pro and a con in the case, li permitted^ I shall
at any rate go.

Affectionately yours.

HAMILTON TO KING.

September 22d, 1794.

I thank you, my dear Sir, for your letter of the . A few

days previously I wrote you pretty fully. I hope my letter got
to hand.

The inclosed paper gives you the substance of our European
intelligence under the Philadelphia head.

The returns from the Western counties of this State are just
come to hand. They show a valuable division, ranging on the
side of the laws the most influential men, and a respectable body
of others — but leaving a great number still uncomplying and
violent, so as to afford no appearance of submission to the laws
without the application of force. It will give you pleasure to
learn that there is every prospect of our being able to apply this
effectually, and of the issue being favorable to the authority of
the laws. It will occasion a large bill of costs, but what is that
compared wdth the object? Adieu.

Affectionately yours, &c.

iET. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 611

HAMILTON TO KING,

Jones' Mill, October 30th, 1794.

Dear Sir:

Our light corps, tlie Jersey infantry, and a brigade of cavalry,
are about eight and a half miles in front, beyond all the moun-
tains. This division, which has been delayed by a somewhat
worse route and the incumbrance of the public stores, will be at
the same place this evening. The left wing is at a correspond-
ing point. All is essentially well ; no appearance of opposition.
It is of great consequence that a law should, if possible, be expe-
dited through Congress, for raising 500 infantry and 100 horse,
to be stationed in the disaffected country. Without this, the ex-
pense incurred will be essentially fruitless.

A law regulating a peace process of outlawry is also urgent ;
for the best objects of punishment will fly, and they ought to be
compelled by outlawry to abandon their property, homes, and
the United States. This business must not be skinned over.
The political putrefaction of Pennsylvania is greater than I had
any idea of. Without rigor every where, our tranquillity is
likely to be of very short duration, and the next storm will be
infinitely worse than the present one.

Yours, with true esteem and regard, &;c.

M'^KENZIE TO HAMILTON.

Montreal, November 9th, 1794.

Sir:

Agreeable to your request, I will give you some few remarks
on my last expedition.

Having had no particular directions from the company, of
course no promise on my part of undertaking such a jaunt, I
left the grand portage about the usual time for Arabasca, but

612 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

previously had obtained permission to remain the summer in-
land, with no other view than of employing that time in dis-
covery. The cause of my not consulting the company was, the
ill-usage I had received on my return from my former expe-
dition.

Upon my arrival, as well as that of all the canoes at Ara-
basca, I left Mr. E. McKeuzie in charge of the principal post,
and went to winter, at the last of our settlements, in the Peace
river, or Unjegah, lat. 66° 9' north, long. 117° 43' west, from
Greenwich.

In the spring, after I sent off all the property from Arabasca,
I, on the 9th May, 1793, took my departure in a north canoe,
accompanied by A. McKay, six Canadians, and two young
Indians, up the Peace river, against a very strong current. In
our route, we were rather unfortunate in not meeting with in-
habitants till we had nearly got to the mountains, and come near
the source of the river, and then we saw but three men with
their families. They were well-furnished with spears, daggers,
bar-iron, &c. I prevailed with one of those men to come and
guide us to the height of land, which he did ; wishing to bring
him further, he deserted from us.

The height of land is only seven hundred paces across — pass
two small lakes and two small carrying-places ; from these, we
continued our route down a small river, much embarrassed with
wood, rocks, &c. ; we broke our canoe, lost all our balls ; we at
last got into a large river, and this, in half a day's time, led us
into a more considerable body of water. It was not before the
third day from hence we met with natives, who were not very
amicable at our first appearance ; however, peace being estab-
lished, they gave us an account of the country, and informed us
they got what European articles they had from the West, by
land, and that they did not know where this river emptied into
the sea. I got some of them to conduct me to the next tribe ;
here I was convinced that the distance by the river, which is
very rapid, was great, and that I could not be able to perform it
in the course of the season, had I been better provided than I
was ; therefore I returned up the river, according to the Indians'

.&. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 613

directions, to take the route by whicTi they procure their goods.
Here I left my canoe, and the greatest part of what we had in
her, — latitude, 53° north; longitude, 122° 43' west — travelled
fifteen days to get to the sea-coast. There being many islands,
I borrowed a canoe from the natives, went about twenty leagues
out amongst the islands, where I found the latitude to be 52° 23',
longitude, 128° 15', the 22d July, 1793. I returned by the way
I went, and was back at our settlement the 24th August.
I am, Sir, yours,

Alexander McKenzie.

ST. CLAIR TO HAMILTON".

Pittsburgh, November 14th, 1794.

Sir:

The post which has been established at Lebeuf, by the State
of Pennsjdvania, seems to be at present a place of some import-
ance, and is in a critical situation. The time for which the gar-
rison is engaged is on the point of expiring ; but the Governor
has power by a late law to continue them, and I suppose will con-
tinue them. The present commanding officer is a prudent man,
and a good officer. He, however, as I am informed, will not re-
main, and the command will devolve upon a person of the name
of Miller, from Washington county, who is strongly in the inter-
est of the insurgents ; and a part of the garrison, from that county
also, have been exceedingly disorderly, and disposed to mutiny.
Pardon me for taking the liberty to suggest, that it might be well if
a party of the standing troops were sent there, for there is a con-
siderable quantity of military stores of every kind, and some
pieces of artillery, deposited in that place. The concurrence of
Governor Mifflin will no doubt be necessary, and that, I suppose,
would not be withheld.

With every sentiment of respect and regard, I have the honor
to be, Sir, your very humble servant,

A. St. Clair.

614 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

CARRINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, December 12th, 1794.

My Dear Sir:

I have been favored with yours of the 1st instant. All ac-
counts from the scene of the late insurrection, agree that the
measures which have been pursued have been as successful in
their issue, as they were wise in their commencement. I have
also the satisfaction of finding that our returned troops pretty
generally agree that a less force than was called forth would
have been opposed, and that a small army could have eftected
nothing but the establishment of a civil war. This operates as
strong evidence against our good democrats, who had been loud
against the Executive for interrupting the quiet of our citizens,
and incurring an unjust expense. The propriety of a force be-
ing left in the country is also supported by the same authority,
to the no small disconcertment of those immaculate guardians of
our liberties, who were charging upon the President an avidity
in seizing an opportunity for an advance to the establishment of
a standing army. In truth, our militia have come home better
citizens than they went out, inasmuch as they have seen this
fallacious spirit of liberty, stripped of its hypocrisy, and exhibited
in its own garb. I have no doubt that their returnins; amongst
their neighbors, thus undeceived, will be productive of good con-
sequences. Our Virginians were, before this excursion, much
better citizens than certain circumstances had led those of other
States to suppose them ; and the ready obedience paid to the
late call, must have in some degree counteracted the opinions
entertained concerning them. You will recollect that after the
insurgency broke out, and before the call was put to the test, I
ventured to communicate to you a temper as belonging to our
people, different from the contraband politics of our representa-
tives. I predicted the alacrity with which the people would turn
out to support their government and its laws, and endeavored to
account for the real existence of such a contradiction in the con-
duct of the people when called on to act for themselves, and

^T. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 615

when acting, or said to be acting, by their representatives. The
event has verified the prediction, nor can I attempt to solve the
enigma otherwise than I then did. We have vicious and virtuous
men of abiUties ; the vicious are b6>ld in their charges upon gov-
ernment and its administration; the virtuous are criminallj
backward. The people naturally give their suffrages to those
who discover the greatest solicitude to obtain them, and who
show the greatest confidence in their claims to be trusted. In
truth, my dear Sir, I have fallen out with both ; for he from
whom an active inj ury is received, is little less a friend than he
that stands by and quietly sees the injury done.

Your observations upon the deplorable increase of a disor-
ganizing spirit, in the quarter from whence it has before been felt
in Congress, are, I apprehend, too w^cll founded ; nor have you a
consolation in the event of our late election here to fill the
Senatorial seats. There is, indeed, something extremely unac-
countable in all this— it would seem that the events of last
summer and fall were calculated to have changed even the sen-
timents of former actors on the stage of our political farce ; much
more might a change of conduct have been expected from a con-
viction that their constituents had received impressions no longer
to tolerate their opinions. Speak with the people of Virginia, in
parties, or individually, and far the greater number appear to
disapprove of the violent measures espoused by their representa-
tives in both houses, last session; yet, all their elections, in
whatever form made, turn on men most distinguished for their
violence and enmity to the government and its administration.
All this I feel and lament exceedingly, I, however, have a con-
solation, which I do not think a mistaken one, that the people of
Virginia will always revolt against the wickedness or follies of
their leaders Avhenever they are brought near enough to the pre-
cipice to see plainly their danger.

You do not feel more sensibly than I do the critical situation
in which we stand ; nor, are you more thoroughly convinced that
the southern politics have a tendency, a limited one I hope, to
a severment which cannot be taken into prospect by any man
who feels the pride of a free American, but with chagrin and

616 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

humility ; the transition would be nothing less than from the
exalted station of the freest, happiest and wisest people the sun
ever shone upon, to that of the most vile, the most wretched and
the most foolish that ever stamped the human character. Being
an united people, we dictate our own laws, and say to all the
rest of the world what shall be their conduct towards us — divide
us, and we instantly become little puppets to be played off upon
each other, as shall be convenient to foreign nations, and even
foreign individuals. It would seem that the success of Genet's
projects should have stamped this lesson deeply on the mind of
every American, who was not involved in his vices.

I most heartily re-echo your opinion, that good men should
come forward and set their faces against the ills which await us,
and trust it will ere long be the case in Yirginia. Let our eastern
brethren, whose good sense and solid republicanism I daily more
and more admire, continue their zeal in supporting the true in-
terests of the commonwealth. They will prevail — an enthusiastic
folly cannot be of long duration.

On the subject of your resignation you appear to have taken
your final determination. I wish your successor may be as suc-
cessful in the effects of his measures, and that he may be as for-
tunate in repelling the attacks of faction. The papers have an-
nounced a precaution which I should certainly have taken the
liberty to recommend to you. Your notification to the House of
Representatives is a necessary caveat against future slander, for
had you remained till the last day of the session, and then re-
signed without such a precaution, a retreat from inquiry would
have been charged upon you.

I anticipate, with pleasure, your appearance in the character
of a representative, and beg you to be assured you will retain in
any station you may occupy, the public confidence and private
friendship of,

My dear Sir,

Your affectionate fellow-citizen,
Ed. Caerington.

jet.31.] correspondence. 617

CARRINGTON TO HAMILTON".

Richmond, December 26th, 1794.

Dear Sir :

I have been favored with yours of the 19th instant, covering
your private letter of the same date to Governor Lee, I hear he
has left Winchester, and will probably be here to-morrow or next
day, and have thought it best to keep his letter until his arrival.
The explanations contained in this letter to him, are such as I
had anticipated, as you might have perceived from mine to you
of the 11th.

Had there been no difficulties to encounter from a want of
appropriated funds, it would have been impossible, upon an
arrangement taken at camp on the 23d November, and was still
to be communicated at Philadelphia, for you to have sent the
money to the places designated, in time for the arrival of the sev-
eral detachments ; nor does it appear to me, that such an arrange-
ment should have been made, without a previous knowledge of
the readiness of government to meet it, as it was well known that
the service was an unforeseen one, for which the existing reve-
nues had not been assigned ; nor yet am I of opinion that dissat-
isfaction would have been the consequence of an explained com-
munication to the troops — that balances of pay must remain
unpaid for some short time after their return home. As- reason-
able and patriotic citizens, they ought not to have been dissatisfied,
because such treatment would have been consistent with every
practicable application of unascertained sums at a distance from
the treasury, even had appropriated funds been there : much
more should it be considered such in a case which, being unfore-
seen, had not been provided for by the legislature. Indeed, I
think it extremely impolitic, to impress upon the minds of the
people ideas, that the degree of punctuality which has, in this
instance, been attempted, is the only ground on which govern-
ment can expect their services when necessary for its support.
Good men may be treated like petulant children, and by that
means made equally unreasonable and perverse. On the other

618 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 37.

hand, both good and bad men may, by firm and plain lessons of
reason, be taught to accommodate their demands upon govern-
ment to the due course of an honest administration. It has been
said that this degree of punctuality is necessary, from the impos-
sibility of getting the balances into the hands of the dispersed
individuals, and that speculators would, for trifles, purchase up
the claims. It, however, appears to me, that every evil suggested
could easily have been provided against ; and, if the troops have
been duly mustered, they very probably are provided against.
Every soldier who remained to the last of his service, under the
head of his original ofiicer, whether discharged at the end of the
service or intermediately, is locally known ; if, by any means, he
has appeared under the head of another officer, his locality was,
or should have been noted in the subsequent musters, particu-
larly on the final one. Under these precautions, the balances of
pay might be sent to the respective brigadiers in the country,
who should be relied on to provide for the payment thereof to
the individuals entitled, by persons whom they might appoint,
and be responsible for ; the actual receipts of the individuals to be
rendered in the settlement of the accounts, and the genuineness of
the receipts to be proven by the oaths of the payers of the moneys.
An arrangement of this kind discards every idea of assignees re-
ceiving pajnnents, and presents a certain and sufficiently rapid
course for the passage of unpaid balances to the identical persons
entitled thereto. Moderate commissions might be allowed to the
brigadiers and their agents on these special occasions, which
would be amj^ly compensated by the relief government would
receive under convenient postponements of such demands — and
the satisfaction to the claimants when payments are necessarily
deferred. It appears to me that the brigadiers of militia may be
made very happy instruments in both the commencement and
ending of every tour of militia duty, and it would be well to in-
troduce practices of making them such. The brigade districts
embrace, each, an extent of space and numbers, convenient for
individual communications — and the brigadiers are naturally
presented as convenient and safe agents, both for the public and
the respective individuals concerned. In all the arrangements

^T. 37.] CORRESPONDENCE. 619

which have been intrusted to me in relation to the late expedi-
tion, I have endeavored to call into practice the services of the
brigadiers, where they could possibly be embraced, and they have
been found to contribute greatly to facilitate the service, and to
accommodate individuals.

Your observations upon the expensive and unwield}^ arrange-
ments of some of our lines, arising from an over-proportion of
officers, and a multiplied staff, / trust and believe, has not refer-
ence to the Virginia Hne. I think the staff was put on as mode-
rate a scale as was practicable, and early measures were taken to
consolidate the thin corps, and dismiss the supernumerary officers.
General Morgan, as well as Darke and Matthews, under whom the
Virginia line was formed, were good enough to act very confi-
dentially with me, and inclosed you will receive copies of com-
munications between me and General Morgan, leading to early
reductions of officers and wagons, two of the most devouring
sources of expense and the most productive of impediment, that
can possibly hang upon an army. I have every reason to hope
from the sum furnished to Col. Bird, who has supplied trans-
portation, forage, fuel, and straw to the Virginia line throughout
the expedition, including forage, fuel, and straw to that of Mary-
land, from and back to Fort Cumberland, that the moderation of our
staff arrangement will be apparent. I have the satisfaction to hear
from all concerned, that his supplies have been timely and ample.

Whether the inspections and musters of the troops have been
well attended to in the Virginia line, will appear by a view of
the returns. The inclosed letter from me to Major Pryor, of the
12th of October, will show you that the various objects of his
appointment were fully presented to him, and from my know-
ledge of his capacity and usual diligence, I am in hopes the pur-
poses of his appointment have been well effected.

I have not felt that the observations and information which I
now communicate were necessary to remove from your mind im-
pressions to the disadvantage of the arrangements of the Virginia
line, but it will not be unsatisfactory to you to receive them.

I am, with the greatest regard and esteem, dear Sir,
Your most obedient servant,

Ed. Carrington.

620 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 37.

LEE TO HAMILTON,

Shirley, near Richmond, 31&t Dec, 1794.

Dear Sir:

Forced to meander on my ride home to close as far as I could
the various matters which I considered under my care, I never
got to Richmond until the 29th, when Col. Carrington gave to
me your favor of the 19th December.

I am sure you understand too well my conviction of your
constant efforts to give comfort to the late army with me, to sup-
pose that I could for a moment impute to want of exertion in
you any disappointment to which they may have been submitted.

I will not, therefore, recur to that part of your letter which
explains the causes of incomplete remittance, for sure I am every
possible assistance in every way has been afforded by you. But
I will rather try to make you as happy as you ought to be, by
telling you that the money sent to Winchester, answered an ex-
cellent purpose, as it allayed all the discontents which General
Matthews' letter to me announced.

From that place I wrote to the Secretary of War for the
balance, and sent forward to the Paymaster-General his deputy,
who will, I presume, return charged with means and instructions,
unless Mr. Smith may have pursued your orders of drawing bills
for the money wanting. In this case the deputy paymaster
ought to return.

Mr. Smith had received no instructions to that effect before I
left Winchester.

I hear that you certainly leave government in all next month.
I lament the event, but heartily wish that it may be productive
of every advantage to your family you expect, and that the
affectionate gratitude of our country, to whose good joix have so
constantly and eminently contributed, may surround you in your
retirement.

From me reckon always on the most affectionate respect and
regard. Farewell,

Henry Lee.

^T.38.] CORRESPONDENCE. <321

LEE TO HAMILTON.

Shirley, near Richmond, Jan. 5, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I wrote you the other day in reply to your letter received
from Col. Carrington.

The communicatioES from my friend since my return go to
tell me that I have become an object of the most virulent enmity
of a certain political junto who aftect to govern the United States,
and who belch their venom on every citizen not subservient to
their will. Mr. Marshall says, that my imagination cannot pre-
sent to me in true colors their invention and circulation of tales
to depreciate me.

Thus warned, I am collecting defensive weapons, lest they
may overcome by renewing their attack on me unprepared.

One point I wish to draw from you the President's opinion
upon, merely for my own satisfaction and information.

He wrote to me as Governor of Virginia to take the field,
telling me that I should command the army.

By referring to the Constitution and Law, the President has a
right to require the service of the militia, and is ex-of&cio Com-
mander-in-Chief. The militia law passed by Congress is the law
of organization, and does not mention a State Commander-in-
Chief, which is the Governor.

It is therefore argued, that the President cannot call on a
Governor to take the field.

Further, the President's calling on me as Governor to com-
mand the army was not consistent with his prudence ; for, if my
command lasted only to the short day, which closed my magis-
tracy, then a new commander might have been necessary in a
critical moment — a change which wisdom would not permit in
the arrangements.

Eefer to the Constitution of the United States, and State, and
to the Law of the first, then write to me at length, as you know
the reasons which swayed the President on the occasion.

Adieu. Yours always.

622 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

P. S. — Should the reasoning of the Virginia Assembly be
just, the law of Congress ought to be amended, otherwise the
command of the army will be filled by the State Government
sending into the field the oldest ofiicer, and not by the Chief
Magistrate of the Union, who is responsible to the people for the
conduct of militia called into the field by his order.

DELANY TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, January 12, 1795.

Dear Sir:

Among that class of your fellow-citizens, who truly lament
your intended resignation, we also, as officers of the revenue of
this district, beg leave to assure you, we feel it in the most sensi-
ble degree.

And if the warmest heartfelt sentiments of your conduct, as
a statesman and in your official duties, can be pleasing or useful
to your feelings, we in the most explicit sense now offer them.

These sentiments, sir, and opinions, are founded on expe-
rience and due consideration in every instance that we know or
recognize throughout your whole administration.

We also sincerely hope you will meet in future the just and
happy fruits of an upright and virtuous conduct, in the grateful
sentiments of a free and enlightened people — for, if such is the
portion of an impartial and steady operation in office to insure
happiness and security agreeably to the Constitution and Laws,
you must certainly meet it. We are with unfeigned esteem and
great respect your obedient and most humble servants,

Sharp Delant, Collector.
W. Macpherson, S. Officer.
Walter Stewart, Surveyor.

vEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 623

EDMUND EANDOLPH TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, February 17, 1795.

Deae Sir :

I had intended to have paid my respects to you this morning;
but being deprived of that pleasure by a bad cold, and bad
weather, I beg leave to offer to yourself, Mrs. Hamilton and
family, my best wishes for your and their happiness ; and to
assure you of the true esteem and regard with which I am,
Dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

Edm. Eandolph.

M'^HENEY TO HAMILTON.

New Baltimore, February 17, 1795.

My Deae Hamilton:

The tempest weathered and landed on the same shore, I may
now congratulate you on having established a system of credit,
and having conducted the affairs of our country upon principles
and reasoning, which ought to insure its immortality, as it un-
doubtedly will your fame. Few public men have been so
eminently fortunate as voluntarily to leave so high a station with
so unsullied a character, and so well assured a reputation ; and
still fewer have so well deserved the gratitude of their country,
and the eulogiums of history. Let this console you for past toils
and pains, and reconcile you to humbler pleasures and a private
life. What remains for you, having insured fame, but to insure
felicity ? Seek for it in the moderate pursuit of your profession,
or, if public life still flatters, in that office most congenial to it ;
and which will not withdraw you from those literary objects that
require no violent waste of spirits, and those little plans that
involve gentle exercise, and which you can drop or indulge in
without injury to your family.

624 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

I shall expect to hear from you as soon as you get fairly
settled. Not knowing whether I ought to address to you at
Albany or New-York, I have sent this to Mr. Murray, who will
forward it, and who I suppose knows. Adieu.

Sincerely and affectionately,

James M'Henry.

HAMILTON TO SEDGEWICK.

Bristol, February 18th, 1795.

My Dear Sedgewick:

Every moment's reflection increases my chagrin and disgust
at the failure of the propositions concerning the unsubscribed
debt. I am tortured by the idea that the country should be so
completely and unnecessarily dishonored. A day of reckoning
must come. I pray you let the yeas and nays separate the tvlieat
from the chaff. I may otherwise have to feel the distress of
wounding a friend by a shaft levelled at an enemy. The case is
an extreme one. Managements are every way improper.

Yours affectionately,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Kingston, February 21st, 1795.

My Dear King:

The unnecessary, and capricious, and abominable assassina-
tion of the national honor, by the rejection of the propositions
respecting the unsubscribed debt, in the House of Eepresenta-
tives, haunts me every step I take, and afiiicts me more than I
can express. To see the character of the government and the
country so sported with — exposed to so indelible a blot — puts

/Et. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE, 625

my heart to the torture. Am I, then, more of an American than
those who drew their first breath on American ground? Or
what is it that thus torments me, at a circumstance so calmly
viewed by almost every body else ? Am I a fool — a romantic
Quixotte — or is there a constitutional defect in the American
mind ? Were it not for yourself and a few others, I could adopt
the reveries of De Paux as substantial truths, and could say with
him that there is something in our climate which belittles every
animal, human or brute.

I conjure you, my friend, make a vigorous stand for the
honor of your country ! Eouse all the energies of your mind,
and measure swords in the Senate with the great slayer of pub-
lic faith — the hackneyed veteran in the violation of public engage-
ments. Prevent him, if possible, from triumphing a second time
over the prostrate credit and injured interests of his country.*
Unmask his false and horrid hypothesis. Display the immense
diiference between an able statesman and the man of subtilties.
Eoot out the distempered and noisome weed which is attempted
to be planted in our political garden, to choke and wither, in its
infancy, the fair plant of public credit.

I disclose to you, without reserve, the state of my mind. It
is discontented and gloomy in the extreme. I consider the cause
of good government as having been put to an issue, and the
verdict rendered against it.

Introduce, I pray you, into the Senate, when the bill comes
up, the clause which has been rejected, freed from embarrass-
ment by the bills of credit, bearing interest on the nominal
value. Press its adoption in this the most unexceptionable
shape, and let the yeas awl nays witness the result.

Among the other reasons for this is my wish that the true
friends of public credit may be distinguished from its enemies.
The question is too great a one not to undergo a thorough ex-
amination before the community. It would pain me not to be
able to distinguish.

Adieu ! God bless you.

* Witness the forty for one scheme— a most unskilful measure, to say the best
of it.

E 40

626 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

P. S. Do me the favor to revise carefully tlie course of the
bill respecting the unsubscribed debt, and let me know the par-
ticulars. I wish to be able to judge more particularly of the
underplot I suspect.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, February 26th, 1795.

My Deae Sir:

I have received your letter, with the printed bills. The new
clause is an additional bad feature; yet, 'tis better the thing
should pass as it is than not at all. Every thing should be gained
that can be.

So it seems that, under the present administration of the De-
partment, Hillhouse and Goodhue are to be the ministers in the
House of Eepresentatives, and Elsworth and Strong in the
Senate. Fine work we shall have !

But I swear the nation shall not be dishonored with im-
punity.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

Albany, April 10th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you a few lines by the last post. I sit down to fulfil
my promise then made.

The fulfilment of our foreign engagements, under the exist-
ing circumstances, is no doubt a perplexing task. But I hope it
will not be found impracticable to effect enough to preserve cha-
racter and credit.

Every thing must be done to this end, though with consider-
able sacrifices, provided you do not go so far as to endanger credit

^T. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 627

at home. This must at all events be kept sound, since a shock
there will be fatal, while the extraordinary situation of the times
will furnish an apology for any omissions which may happen
abroad; and by eventual indemnification, the wounds which
may be given to foreign credit may be healed. The opinion which
some entertain is altogether a false one, that it is more important
to maintain our credit abroad than at home. The latter is far
the most important nursery of resources, and consequently far
the most important to be inviolably maintained. A failure here
would be the more material, because it would argue want of
means, and could not shelter itself under the plea of temporary
embarrassments from external causes, and because it would de-
range our whole internal economy.

But, except the compromitting our whole domestic credit,
nothing must be left undone to preserve external credit,

I do not doubt that the means which have been taken down
to the first of June, inclusively, will be deemed adequate, consi-
dering the circumstances. They may, however, fail of the effect
intended. But I do not apprehend any material evil from the
delay of reimbursing the instalment of principal, if the interest
is but punctually and honestly paid. I hope our Commission-
ers, with the public and their own resources, will effect this, till
further provision can be brought into action.

As to sending specie from this country, 'tis out of the ques-
tion. 'Twould derange every thing; and our Commissioners
ought to be frankly told that it is impracticable, owing to the in-
terruption^ hy the loar, of some of the usual channels through which
we have derived our supplies of specie.

But commodities may be remitted on the public account, and
this (the resource of stock failing) must, for aught I see, be done,
unless what I shall now mention can be accomplished, with the
judgment of our Commissioners in its favor, to wit:

Let them enter into an arrangement with the constituted au-
thorities of Holland or France, (preferring the former,) to receive
at Amsterdam the sums necessary for paying those which we
shall owe, giving drafts upon our Treasury for equivalent sums.
This will enable the French or Dutch Government to obtain sup-
plies here, which they will want.

628 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38

But may they, for this purpose, receive and^ay assignats?
Not so, if assignats are not the general currency of the country ;
but if they are, there may be no choice. Gold and silver may
not then be obtainable at all. Perhaps the Commissioners may
be able to raise funds by the sale of bills upon this country,
otherwise, as many may wish, to remit from the Netherlands.

Yet our creditors must not be paid, without a reasonable in-
demnification, in depreciated paper. Consequently our Commis-
sioners must be authorized, if obliged to pay in assignats, to aug-
ment the rate, so as to allow an equivalent.

Accordingly, if the arrangement I have intimated can be
effected, the Commissioners may give bills, florin for fl/yrin, of
gold or silver (or a dollar for 2| florins); but if they are obliged
to receive assignats, they ought to secure a premium of exchange
equal to the depreciation.

This transaction ought to be managed under the superintend-
ence of our Minister.

What I wish you were able immediately to do, is this: To
ship, without delay, commodities sufficient, together with the
moneys certainly in the command of the Commissioners, inde-
pendent of sales of stock, to pay interest to September inclusively,
writing them a letter suggesting the above plan, and authorizing
them to act upon it if they approve.

The stock remitted may be ordered to be sold in England,
which will furnish a fund upon which you can draw, in order to
prosecute other methods of remittance.

At the same time, I think it may be well to take measures
for ascertaining whether some arrangement could not be relied
upon for remitting through England to Amsterdam. I know of
no impediment, even now, to sending bullion (including Spanish
and other foreign gold and silver coin) in American bottoms to
Amsterdam; but impediments might arise. Perhaps, in this
case, London might be made an intermediary of remittances to
Holland, either by sales of stock, or commodities there.

The commodities to be remitted ought to be such as to be
liable to as little casualty as possible from war considerations ;
and they ought to be most effectually insured; and ought to

^T. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 629

appear authentically as those of the United States, sent to pay
their debts on their own account and risk. I suspect, however,
the other plan will be found practicable on satisfactory principles,
but no agreement ought to be for a longer term than a year.

If you are not able to seud, immediately, commodities for
payment of interest to September, it may then be of necessity
to wait further information, giving full latitude, if it has not al-
ready been given, to sell stock for payment of interest at any
time, suggesting the possibility of doing something through
London, and proposing the plan of the arrangement which has
been suggested. All the stock r -^t salable in Amsterdam ought
to be placed in London, under due precautions for security, to be
sold there as a fund.

The co-operation of our minister in Holland will be proper
throughout ; and pretty large discretions must be confided.

If a very trusty and a clever fellow could go from hence, as
agent for the treasury, with alternative instructions according to
circumstances, it might be very useful. I believe William
Smith of South Carolina would go, and he would be safe and
competent. Would not James Watson go ? He would also do.

In contemplating a possible course of things, I had my eye
upon the expedient of issuing warrants upon the treasurer, pay-
able at future periods, from two to twelve months, in nature of
Exchequer Bills. This may be a mean of providing for the
current service by credit, besides the expedient of loans from the
bank. By being negotiable, they may answer the purposes of
contractors, though articles may thereby cost something more to
the public, than on the plan of anticipated or prompt payment.

I mention this, because I foresee that, from the embarrass-
ment of foreign events, there may be a press upon the treasury.

If any thing further occurs you shall have it. Write me as
freely as you please.

Yours, with great regard,

Alexander Hamilton.

P. S. There is one idea which may deserve attention — a de-
preciated paper naturally gives to gold and silver an artificial

630 HAMILTON'S WORKS. F^t. 38.

and exaggerated value. This may even occasion an undue loss to
a debtor who is honorable enough to pay in gold and silver,
when a depreciated paper is the general currency. This is more
than just. But it may be policy in a government to submit to
it. Yet there may be bounds. The idea may be brought into
the view of our minister and commissioners for this purpose : —
To suggest, that if such an artificial advancement of gold and
silver takes place, the compensation for depreciation may be ad-
justed upon some equitable ratio. But a moderate sacrifice, for
simplicity of proceeding, may, in this case, be best.

I send a letter to the Attorney-General which you will read,
seal, and deliver. You will easily divine my reason for ad-
dressing it to him. The President ought to view this matter as
it is, but I do not write to him because I do not wish to appear
officious.

Have you taken any arrangement at Amsterdam, to facilitate
the change of foreign and domestic debt, according to the law of
last session? The moment is favorable. Facilities on the spot
may promote the object. Our commissioners and our minister
are worthy of trust. ,

KING TO HAMILTON.

Monday Morning, 17th April, 1795.

In general I agree in the course you recommend. Separate
bills will be reported to the House this morning, providing for
the Spanish, Indian, and Algerine treaties. They will pass the
House, and be sent to the Senate in the middle of the week. I
perceive no impropriety in adding to the first of these bills, re-
ceived by the Senate, and in succession to each of them, if requi-
site, a provision for the British treaty. Such amendment, if
received in the House before they take a question, it is believed,
would have influence.

The merchants and traders' petition is signed with unex-

yfiT. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 631

ampled unanimity. Baltimore has prepared a similar petition,
which will be very generally signed. General Smith, who is
now here, writes that the treaty has gained many friends, that
they are next to unanimous in favor of its execution ; that Anna-
polis is likewise unanimous, and that he thinks that nine-tenths
of the State are for carrying it into effect. He adds that a memo-
rial has been drawn up and signed by the most of the respectable
people of Baltimore approving the President's conduct in refusing
the papers, that he thinks a counter memorial could be obtained,
but that he has discouraged it, seeing the necessity of unanimity
at the present crisis. He returns to-morrow or next day, and
will be zealous for the execution of the treaty.

Van Cortland will leave this place on Wednesday. Would
it not be well to prepare a reception for him which may return
him in favor of the treaty? His friends may be induced to act
upon his mind, which balances, so as to decide it.

Adieu,

E. King.

GORE TO HAMILTON.

Boston, 20th April, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I have hitherto delayed answering the letter you did me the
honor to write under date 28th February, in hopes of being
able to obtain such information on the subject as would be
agreeable to you, and afford a reasonable expectation of an adop-
tion, by the government, of your propositions respecting the un-
subscribed debt. But I am sorely mortified to find that many,
from whom you had a right to expect sound principles, and honest
politics, are crooked and perverse, and, I fear, obstinately so on
the subject of public credit. They do not view the system as
appealing to the option of the creditors, but to their necessities,
— and mortification at having assented to terms which they think
not quite so good as those proposed in your plan to the non-

632 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

subscribers, is sufficient to induce the decided and warm opposi-
tion of some who have attained, over many, an influence which
is due only to the union of great talents and sound principles.

From conversing with influential men, in the district repre-
sented by Mr. Goodhue, I believe he might be induced to with-
draw his opposition — probably a fear of blame from some, for
having advised their compliance with the existing system, has
caused a part of his opposition ; or if it arises from other causes,
it might cease on his being convinced that respectable men in
his district were dissatisfied with his conduct, in this particular.

But the men who in this part of the country could influence
Mr. Strong, are of the class I mentioned in the former part of
this letter.

I feel deep regret at being obliged to communicate to you
such a character of our citizens; and shall be very happy to
attempt any thing that may be considered likely to produce a
more just way of thinking, and save our government from the
imputation which necessarily results from the rejection of your
propositions ; but I fear a sense of honor, as respects the credit
of the nation, too weak, and prejudices too deep, to admit of any
alteration.

I am, my dear Sir, very respectfully your sincere friend,

C. Gore.

HAMILTON TO KING.

April 24th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I return you a certain draft, with a little substitute for the
close of it proposed by Mr. J with an eye to your suggestion.

Our petition went yesterday by express. It had more than
3,200 signers, which is within about 300 of the highest poll we
ever had in this city on both sides, at the most controverted elec-
tion. Nothing can more clearly demonstrate our unanimity, and

^T. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 6B3

1 feel no doubt of equal or greater unanimity throughout the
State.

The meeting-men have not dared to publish the names of the
committee, because it impudently contained a considerable pro-
portion of persons hostile to its object, several of them actually
on our petition. You see by this their embarrassment and their
weakness.

Yours,

Alexander Hamilton.

VARICK TO HAMILTON.

April 30th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have the pleasure of inclosing to you a certificate from the
Mayor and Aldermen of this, admitting you to the freedom of
this city, as their testimonial and that of the Corporation of this
city of their opinion of your merit and distinguished services in
the cause of your country.

This testimonial has remained in my hands some weeks, to be
forwarded by the Patroon, but he left us unexpectedly. After-
wards General Schuyler promised to dine with me, and I
expected to send it by him, but he also left us suddenly. I now
embrace the favorable opportunity by Mr. Henry, of conveying
it to you, with ray best wishes for your happiness, being with
sincere esteem and respect.

HAMILTON TO THE PRESIDENT.

May 5th, 1795.

The letter of which the inclosed is a copy, contains such ex-
traordinary matter that I could not hesitate to send it to you.

634 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 38.

The writer is Mr. G. M — — . I trust the information it conveys
cannot be true, yet in these wild times every thing is possible.
Your official information may serve as a comment.

Very respectfully and affectionately, I have the honor to be,
Sir, your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

My Dear Hamilton :

I have just now written to the President, to communicate some intelligence
lately received from Paris. This I have done in abstract ; but my correspondent
has written to me as follows : — " The government here are highly displeased with
ours — you may easily guess the reason. It has come to a very serious pitch.
A fleet is to be sent to our shore with a new minister. A definitive answer must
be given in 15 days. The government are to declare to us within a few days,
that our treaty with them is annulled. This will place Mr. Munroe in a cruel
dilemma. He is already much displeased, and a war will probably be the conse-
quence. The British will be glad of this. Perhaps we may have here a revolu-
tion from the industry of the Jacobins. The finances are worse than ever. They
cannot stand much longer." This letter is dated Paris, the 15th of last month.
You may be sure, by my communicating it to you, that I have confidence in the
source. I have barely stated to the President the intention as to a new minister.
To you I will declare my conviction, that this government cannot stand, whether
the monarchy be restored or not. The adherence to the royal cause grows daily
more numerous. If I knew decidedly the steps to be taken in aid of them, I
could tell you almost with certainty whether they would be successful or not :
for the state of that country now presents sufficient data on which to reason
soundly. I need not say to you, that if the French rulers persist in the measures
which are above mentioned, America will be obliged to take part in the war. On
a former occasion, when they talked somewhat highly, I told them that they
would certainly force us into the contest, but as certainly it would be against
them, let the predilections in their favor be ever so great, because it would be mad-
ness in us to risk our commerce against the navy of the world. That to join
them would do them no good, and would do us much evil. Thai time they
believed me. What representations Mr. Mimroe will make I cannot pretend to
divine, and much less the effect of them. Supposing, however, that you should
be driven to make the election, you will naturally weigh not only the naval force,
but also the financial resources of the opposed powers. The noisy folks with
you will undoubtedly be loud on our obligations to France, and on our long list
of grievances from England. As to the former, I think we should always seek
to perform acts of kindness towards those who, at the bidding of their prince,
stept forward to fight our battles. But would it be kind to support that power

^T. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 635

which now tyrannizes over France, and reduces her inhabitants to unheard of
misery ? . Would it be grateful to mix with, much less to league with those whose
laws are yet red with the blood of him who was our real protector ? Would it
be decent ? As to the conduct of Britain towards us, although I see as clearly
as others tlie grounds we have to complain, and can readily account for the
resentments which have been excited, yet I give due weight to the causes by
which that conduct was instigated,and while, in some cases, I find it unjustifiable,
I cannot consider it as in all cases inexcusable. Provided, therefore, that our
honor be saved, I am so far from thinking that the injuries we have endured
should become the source of inextinguishable hatred and perpetual war, that I
would seek in future goodofiices — the fair motive for consigning them to oblivion.
I have not, my dear Hamilton, any such view of our present political ma-
chinery as to judge what may be the effect of lofty menace. It is possible, after
all, that the demand may turn on a single pivot — that we shall no longer pretend
to claim an exemption from seizure for those goods of an enemy which m.ay be
found in our ships. If so, the case is plain and easy. We slide back to the law
of nations, which it is our interest to preserve unimpeached. Probably we shall
be called upon for our guarantee of St. Domingo, and here many curious ques-
tions will arise, in the course of which we shall see, perhaps, some very strange
things. It appears certain to me that the French directory would not risk high
language to us, if they had not received previous assurances that the people
would force our government to sacrifice the national interest. These assurances
were, I presume, given, and the present plan proposed, while victory seemed yet
bound to the French standard, and while you received official assurances of the
prosperous state of their internal affairs. The scene is now not only changed,
but almost reversed; and I presume that the language, if not the conduct, of
certain persons, will experience a similar change.

Adieu, &c.

END OF VOL. V.


===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 6) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander06hami/worksofalexander06hami_djvu.txt

3 3433 08173702 9

- Y&va

v\\

HAMILTON'S WORKS.

VOL. VI.

THE WORKS

ALEXANDER HAMILTON

COMPRISING

HIS CORRESPONDENCE,

HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WRITINGS,

EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST,

CIVIL AND MILITARY.

PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

BY ORDER OF

THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.

EDITED BY

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

AUTHOR OP ''THE LIFE OF H A M . L TC N .

vol. viy^B^M

NEW-YORK : "^^ J^r-

JOHN F. TROW, PRINTER, 49, 51 & 53 ANN-STREET.

M.DCCC.LI.

Checked

ft*. <Bdg. H».)

/6&

Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850, by

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New-York.

iEl. 38. 1

CORRESPONDENCE.

BRADFORD TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 21, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I thank you very sincerely for your letter of the 10th instant,
which I received a few days ago. The conduct of Fauchet, which
you so justly reprobate, could not escape the notice of the Presi-
dent, though it does not seem to have excited so much public
attention as I expected. A little before this took place, that
minister had intimated to Mr. Randolph his expectation of return-
ing soon to France — and Mr. Monroe's letters gave reason to
expect that Mr. Adet was on his way to America to succeed
him. Mr. Randolph, therefore, thought it would be sufficient to
communicate to his successor, either at the first interview or
immediately after, the sense of the government on this subject.
If such gross improprieties could have been suppressed for the
future, without any new irritation to Fauchet, who has been ex-
tremely soured of late, and is disposed, I suspect, to do us mis-
chief on his return, it would have been desirable, and perhaps
the best course ; but as we hear nothing more of Adet, and this
man is evidently endeavoring to stimulate the party which is op-
posed to the treaty, the march you intimate would not have been
amiss. I showed your letter to the Secretary of State ; but his
censure of Fauchet outran yours : — and he means that he shall
learn through his successor the sentiments which are entertained
F 1

2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 38.

of his behavior. As no letter can be given him at his depar-
ture, he will, at least, gather it from that circumstance. He finds
great fault with Mr. Eandolph of late, and I understand has had
the effrontery to complain "that he did not show him the whole
of the instructions to Mr. Jay ; and that he did not inform him
that Mr. Jay was authorized to conclude a commercial treaty."
On the subject of that treaty he is extremely irritable, and from
various circumstances I have reason to. believe that the pieces
signed Franklin, which are directed against our having any con-
nection with Great Britain, are written under his direction, but it is
impossible to prove that the fact is so. I am persuaded no means
will be left untried to induce the Senate to reject the treaty, and
I sincerely hope Mr. Jay will arrive before the discussion com-
mences. The trial of the insurgents has commenced. Mr.
Rawle selected what he thought a pretty strong case ; but his
principal witness proved recreant, and flatly contradicted what
his deposition contained. The prisoner was of course acquitted
without argument, and on application of the district attorney, the
witness, Major Parker, (you may recollect him, perhaps ; a tall,
red-haired, snuff-taking fellow,) was bound in recognizance to
take his trial for the perjury. The trials of several others have
been put off on affidavits of the absence of material witnesses,
the Court being of opinion " that they were entitled to a reasona-
ble time to collect their evidence after the list of the United
States witnesses is furnished." This creates not a little embarrass-
ment, and their counsel will in future try the prisoners in such
order as best suits their own views. Adieu.

Believe me, very truly and affectionately,

W. Bradford.

RUTLEDGE TO HAMILTON.

Charleston, May 27th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

The cause of the heirs of General S. Harris and Blackford
has been decided, and we have lost it. The argument lasted for

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 3

three days — and I exerted every faculty in favor of our friends,
but it was all in vain ; and we shall have the enormous sum of
£11,000 sterling to pay in this unfortunate business. Mrs. Greene
(as well she might) relies implicitly on your friendship for assist-
ance. She means to make an application to Congress for relief,
and is sanguine in her expectations. The delegates from this
State in the Senate have offered her their best services ; and she
feels a pleasure in observing that most of her enemies are out of
Congress — and that their places have been supplied by better
men. Mr. Warrington, the agent of Harris and Blackford, has
acted from the beginning to the end of the affair with uncom-
mon humanity and kindness. His success has not damped his
virtues — and he is now as willing to oblige as ever he was. Mrs.
Greene thinks his testimony may be of considerable importance.
He was one of those whose debts the General originally guaran-
tied ; was privy to all the transactions, and is able and willing to
speak with great clearness on the subject. He knew the motives
by which our friend was actuated — he will bear witness to the
patriotic principles which gave rise to all his honorable embar-
rassments— embarrassments, my dear sir, which were too mighty
for his independent spirit; and which, in a luckless moment,
bereaved his country of one of her brightest ornaments.

As you are not only perfect master of the subject, but know
full well the precise objections which were made to the relief so-
licited by Mrs. Green, I thought it best to place Mr. Warrington
in your hands, that you may obtain from him such testimony as
shall be sufficient to remove every doubt with respect to the fair-
ness of the General's conduct. This business, happily terminated,
will leave the family in the enjoyment of a very considerable
estate, and add to the catalogue of services which she has re-
ceived from your disinterested friendship.

I am, dear Sir, with much esteem and respect,
Your very humble servant,

Ed. Rutledge.

Mrs. Rutledge, who was once known to you and to Mrs.
Hamilton, desires me to say that she has not lost the remem-

4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

brance of your friendly attentions, and hopes she still holds a
place in the esteem of those whom she highly values. She con-
gratulates Mrs. II. on your return to private life, and wishes you
may reap your full share of the golden harvest.

WILHEM JAN WILLINK TO HAMILTON.

Amsterdam June 1st, 1795.

Sir:

With heartfelt satisfaction and gratitude did we receive your
esteemed favor of the 31st January.

That one of your last ministerial acts should have been to
testify the sense you entertain of the zeal and fidelity we have
invariably exerted to promote the interests of the United States
committed to our management, is the most flattering and honor-
able recompense that could be bestowed upon us ; and we assure
you we highly cherish it as such.

The success of those efforts you have been pleased to deem
meritorious in us, have been greatly facilitated by the unlimited
confidence we have had in your abilities, probity, and zeal for
the support of the honor of your country, and the credit of its
government, which have enabled us most boldly and conscien-
tiously, as well to our dearest relations and nearest friends, as to
the most indifferent money-lenders, to recommend the invest-
ment of their capitals in bonds of the United States preferably
to those of any European power whatever — an advice we now
experience the pleasure to be sincerely thanked for.

We are happy to learn from you the character of your suc-
cessor. Your testimony of him cannot fail to secure him our full
confidence, and we shall not be wanting in our duty to inculcate
the same when it may be necessary or useful.

Allow us, in taking leave of you, sir, in your official capa-
city, to return you our most unfeigned thanks for the confidence
you have constantly shown us, and for the polite attention you

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. O

have ever paid to all our advices and recommendations. Be
assured, sir, they have made an indelible impression on our
hearts, and that none of your friends can wish you more happi-
ness and felicity in your retreat than we do, nor be more desirous
to promote them than we are by any agreeable offices or services
it may be in our power to render you.

Entreating you most earnestly and sincerely, as a proof of
your regard and friendship for us — not to spare us, but, on the
contrary, freely to apply to us on all such occasions.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, June 11th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your letter of the 10th. The case has been
with me as with }Tou. Eeflection has not mitigated the excep-
tionable point. Yet it will be to be lamented, if no mode can be
devised to save the main object and close the irritable questions
which are provided for. Every thing besides an absolute and
simple ratification will put something in jeopardy. But, while
on the one hand I think it advisable to hazard as little as possi-
ble— on the other I should be willing to hazard something, and
unwilling to see a very objectionable principle put into activity.

It is to be observed that no time is fixed for the ratification of
the treaty. It may then be ratified with a collateral instruction
to make a declaration, that the United States consider the article
in question, aggregately taken, as intended by the king of Great
. Britain as a privilege ; that they conceive it for their interest to
forbear the exercise of that privilege with the condition annexed
to it, till an explanation in order to a new modification of it shall
place it on a more acceptable footing, or till an article to be sent
to our minister containing that modification shall be agreed upon
between him and the British court as a part of the treaty — the
ratification not to be exchanged without further instruction from

6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

this country, unless accepted in this sense and with this qualifi-
cation.

This course appears to me preferable to sending back the
treaty to open the negotiation anew, because it may save time
on the points most interesting to us, and I do not see that if the
ratifications be exchanged with this saving, there can be any
doubt of the matter operating as intended. Adieu.

Yours truly.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, June 20th, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

A considerable alarm has been spread this morning by a
report that the treaty had been disagreed to. I have assured
those I have seen, that I was convinced any rumor of a decision
must be premature. The anxiety, however, about the result, is
extreme. The common opinion among men of business of all
descriptions is, that a disagreement to the treaty would greatly
shock and stagnate pecuniary plans and operations in general.
This is not a small source of disquietude. Others who are not
likely to be affected in that sense (and among these myself), look
forward to the result with great solicitude, as fixing or en-
dangering the stability of our present beneficial and desirable
situation.

My influence in seconding the wishes of our friend General
Greene, is, I fear, overrated. Unwilling to raise expectation
which may not be realized, I will only say, that it will give me
real pleasure to be able to promote his accommodation or advan-
tage, as my opinion of him entirely corresponds with yours. In
the mean time, I will, as far as circumstances permit, have an
eye to the affair.

Yours affectionately.

AZt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. T

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 18th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letters of June 18th and 15th, for which
I thank you, and I inclose the statement you desire.

I had in season taken measures for reviving our debt or loan
in Amsterdam. The plan- is to surrender the existing obliga-
tions to the commissioners, who, in lieu thereof, issue triplicate
descriptive certificates to the creditors ; any one, being produced
at the Treasury, will command the new stock. The certificates
are not transferable, to prevent fraud and insecurity in the
transmission. The old bonds are to be cancelled and delivered
to our minister, who is to possess a control over the whole
business.

A similar plan has been adopted for Antwerp, which I ex-
pect will be conducted by Mr. De Wolfe, under the eye of Mr.
Adams, jr., the secretary o the minister.

Some of our creditors have, doubtless, emigrated, and may
be unable to comply with the proposed form. Mr. Cazenove
has suggested the expediency of advertising that the original
bonds will be received at the Treas i Th s may be necessary ;
yet, as the bonds must be verified here, a very inconvenient
delay or great risk must be incurred. Will you favor me with
your opinion on the point?

The French debt has been finally settled, and the balance
issued in stock to James Swan, agent to the Eepublic, pursuant
to an authority from the Co n n i n e o Public Safety.

This Mr. Swan has proposed to me to contract to pay our
interest in specie in Holland, and when done, to receive payment
here at par. He has immense funds at command here, and, as he
says, in France. His ability cannot be doubted. All the objec-
tions which exist will occur to you. Supposing I contract with
him, and at the same time authorize our commissioners to draw
on the treasury if he fails to comply, will the provisions be ade-
quate, or what better can be done ? The shipment of produce is

8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

impracticable. The French agents command every thing ; and
the risk and probable loss would be immense. On this point
will you drop me a line soon.

The 500,000 dollars you sent, arrived in London the latter
part of April ; this was in season if my subsequent remittance
went safe, and the stock would sell. The principal, interest and
instalments, were paid punctually.

I must soon decide upon some plan for paying all our do-
mestic debt under the law of the last session. Several questions
arise.

1st — -Is it best to declare by a public act that the payments
will be made, and to state the mode throughout, or only that a
payment will be made next December ?

2d — If a declaration is to be made, in what manner, and by
what officer should it be made ?

3d — What distribution of the annual 8 per cent, for principal
and interest will be proper in the several years, to avoid too
minute fractions, and essentially to comply with the law ? The
inclosed table in the columns marked A and B, exhibits the
most exact scale which can be adopted in practice ; and the
columns C and D, the true distribution on the principles of the
law. Is it a matter of discretion, after the year 1807, to divide
1 per cent, for three-quarters of a year, and 5 per cent, at the
close of the year ? This distribution would be most convenient
in practice, and most satisfactory to the creditors. The fractional
dividends after that time, on small sums of capital, would not be
worth attention.

4th — Does it not result from the general spirit of the act of
the last session, and from the express authority to borrow (for
interest) in the first section, that the payments of interest as well
as principal are to be made under the management of the trustees
of the sinking fund? And is not this idea fortified by the
necessity which exists of blending a portion of the payments of
principal in the dividends of interest ?

5th — What is it the duty of the secretary to do in respect to
the vested and appropriated funds — that is, is he to separate them
from the treasury when wanted ? or, is he to carry them by

JSt.38.] correspondence. 9

warrant to a distinct account, as they accrue in the treasury?
The former mode is justified by practice, and understood by the
Legislature. The latter is the most efficient mode, by prevent-
ing a competition with the demands for the current service, and
by compelling an adequate revenue establishment.

6th — If I am obliged to recur to new loans, will it be best
to make an arrangement by which the bank shall be the organ
of the sales of stock for the public ? or to endeavor to obtain a
loan of the bank for which transferable stock is to be delivered ?
Can any objection in relation to the charter of the bank be made
to the last expedient ?

7th — The 11th section of the act directs the commissioners of
the sinking fund to pay the instalments of the loan of two mil-
lions to the bank. What is the fund out of which the payments
are to be made ? and is a farther appropriation necessary ?

For reasons which are sufficient, I have but little knowledge
of what is going forward in the Senate ; but I understand, gene-
rally, that the prospects are good. The Senate is more firm and
able than at any former period. A certain number will, how-
ever, oppose the ratification, but except on a point of which you
are informed, I believe there is no difficulty ; even that will be
so managed as to avoid danger. I think I can assure you that
the result will be satisfactory.

P. S. "We have as yet no comptroller appointed, and I do not
see a prospect of obtaining an efficient character.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, June 22d, 1795.

Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of the 18th instant. I will reply
to one or two points now, and to the rest hereafter.

With regard to the measure of receiving Dutch bonds here to
be exchanged, as is usual, it has different sides. To do it may

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38"

be, in some measure, necessary to effectuate the main object, as
there may be many individuals who, from circumstances, might
not think themselves safe in employing the mode which has been
adopted, and which is no doubt proper. Yet it is easy to see
it might be attended with hazard of imposition. But some-
thing may depend on the nature of the checks which the course
of the business originally gives to our agents at Amsterdam.
If similitude of handwriting is the only internal check, perhaps
it may be possible to manage the matter here. A conversation
with Cazenove may furnish you with the requisite data. Yet I
feel great doubts of the safety of the operation, and, if adopted
at all, it ought to be upon condition that no definitive or alienable
evidences are to be given in exchange for the original bonds till
after a period (to be named) long enough to receive at the Trea-
sury the result of the operation in Holland, and a particular and
detailed statement of it ; and that no interest be payable (in the
mean time) without a guarantee for repayment,; with these checks
none but respectable men will come forward ; and there may be
little or no risk. Yet, as I intimated, even the expediency of
this may depend on the nature of the original checks ; and it
ought to be announced that the Treasury reserves to itself entire
discretion as to the admission .or non-admission of the bonds pre-
sented here.

With regard to the contract proposed by Mr. Swan, I answer,
that I doubt much the advisability of concluding any thing with
him here, for being concluded, it must be relied upon as a
primary resource with the auxiliary and contingent expedient of
drawing in case of failure ; and Mr. Swan is not of standing, or
character, to justify the leaving the public credit to depend
primarily upon his punctuality. If Mr. Swan is able to do what
he offers, it must be on the basis of French government funds, or
that of a powerful moneyed combination in Europe. If either,
why cannot he be referred to our commissioners and minister,
under letters from the Treasury stating the offer ; the desirable-
ness that such a contract could be formed under adequate guards
for its performance; and leaving it to them to judge of the
adequateness of the guards which shall be proposed ? It appears

JEt. 38.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 11

to me very material that they should be satisfied with the ar-
rangement, and essential that there should be good security and
known resources for the execution of it.

Else no loss on shipping commodities, or otherwise, for the
short time it can last, will counterpoise the risk of disappoint-
ment, and censure of reliance on an incompetent character.

I will barely observe on one point of the latter part of your
letter, namely, the payment of interest under the direction of the
commissioners of the sinking fund. I have not the act by me,
and can only speak from memory ; but I am persuaded it does
not require it. I am sure it will be highly inexpedient to place
any extra clogs on that operation, and I do not perceive why the
manner of keeping the accounts may not obviate any embarrass-
ment from a separate management of the two things. I will
write again more particularly, on this as well as on other points.
I am glad to know that there is a probability of a proper issue
to the affair of the treaty.

Yours truly.

•

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New- York, June 26th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have direct information, in confidence, that the minis-
ter of France, by a letter received yesterday, has ordered a fast-
sailing vessel for France to be prepared at this port. No doubt
this has connection with the Treaty with England. I presume,
with the reserves that decorum requires, he is apprised of the
contents of that Treaty. This ought, at least, to go so far as to
satisfy him, that there is nothing in it inimical to his country,
especially as I suppose it to have been adopted. It is well to
guard our peace on all sides, as far as shall consist with dignity.

Indeed, I am of opinion, on the whole, that all further mys-
tery, at present, is unnecessary, and ought to be waived, for the

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

satisfaction of the public mind. I do not think any scruples of
diplomatic decorum of weight enough to stand in the way.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private and perfectly confidential.)

Philadelphia, 3d July, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

The treaty of amity, commerce, and navigation, which has
lately been before the Senate, has, *s you will perceive, made its
public entry into the gazettes of this city. Of course, the merits
and demerits of it will (especially in its unfinished state) be freely
discussed.

It is not the opinions of those who were determined (before it
was promulgated) to support or oppose it, that I am solicitous to
obtain ; for these, I well know, rarely do more than examine the
side to which they lean, without giving the reverse the consider-
ation it deserves ; possibly without a wish to be apprised of the
reasons on which the objecVons are founded. My desire is to
learn from dispassionate men, who have knowledge of the sub-
ject, and abilities to judge of it, the genuine opinion they enter-
tain of each article of the instrument, and the result of it in the
aggregate. In a word, placed on the footing the matter now
stands, it is more than ever an incumbent duty on me to do what
propriety and the true interest of this country shall appear to
require at my hands on so important a subject, under such deli-
cate circumstances.

You will be at no loss to perceive, from what I have already
said, that my wishes are to have the favorable and unfavorable
side of each article stated and compared together, that I may see
the bearing and tendency of them ; and ultimately, on which
side the balance is to be found. This treaty has, I am sensible,
many relations, which, in deciding thereon, ought to be attended
to ; some of them too are of an important nature.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 13

I know, also, that to judge with precision of its commercial
arrangements, there ought likewise to be an intimate acquaint-
ance with the various branches of commerce between this coun-
try and Great Britain as it now stands ; as it will be placed by
the treaty ; and as it may affect our present, or restrain our future
treaties with other nations. All these things, I am persuaded,
you have given as much attention to as most men ; and I be
lieve that your late employment under the General Government
afforded you more opportunities of deriving knowledge therein,
than most of them who had not studied and practiced it scientific-
ally, upon a large and comprehensive scale. I do not know how
you may be occupied at present, or how incompatible this request
of mine may be to the business you have in hand. All I can say
is, that however desirous I may be of availing myself of your
sentiments on the points I have enumerated, and such others as
are involved in the treaty, and the resolution of the Senate, (both
of which I send you, lest they should not be at hand,) it is not
my intention to interrupt you in that business ; or if you are dis-
inclined to go into the investigation I have requested, to press
the matter upon you : for of this you may be assured, that, with
the most unfeigned regard, and with every good wish for your
health and prosperity,

I am your affectionate friend and obedient servant,

G. "Washington.

P. S. Admitting that his Britannic Majesty will consent to
the suspension of the 12th article of the treaty, is it necessary
that the treaty should again go to the Senate ? or is the President
authorized by the resolution of that body to ratify it without ?

G. W.

14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 38*

WADSWORTH TO HAMILTON.

1795.

Dear Sir :

A week since Franklin Backe passed through this town to the
eastward, distributing the treaty. It appears there is a settled
plan to disturb the public tranquillity, and the greatest industry
and pains are operating for that purpose. Men are in every
part of this State misrepresenting the treaty, and have already
succeeded to alarm many people. I do not yet find they have
yet written any thing but private letters. I yesterday saw Mr.
Ellsworth, who says it is best to let them alone until they begin
to publish, and then answer them. I believe otherwise. I doubt
their publishing any thing in this State, but by their emissaries,
who are scattered in^all directions, and are busy in slandering
the treaty verbally. The Connecticut Courant, published in this
town, circulates to the extremity of Vermont, far into the State
of New-York, and all through Massachusetts. They publish once
a week, and more than five thousand papers. It has a good
character from the former publications, but those who formerly
furnished this paper with the best political pieces are either grown
idle, changed in their politics or stations, so that nothing can be
expected. If you will furnish me with any thing on the subject,
I will cause it to be published.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 7th, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of yesterday is this moment received. Not a line
from Mr. Pinckney. I fancy he left London for Madrid about the
8th or 10th of May. Nor has the government any thing but the
newspaper accounts of the order you allude to.

Yours ever and affectionately,

G. Washington.

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 15

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 10th. 1795.

I have received your several letters dated June 22d, 26th,
30th, and the 2d current.

The new publication of the treaties was a measure not con-
sistent with my first impressions and expectations. It was not,
however, left by the Senate in the manner you suppose ; this re-
solution indeed evinces the contrary, and the executive must, in
addition to whatever difficulties would have attended a publica-
tion if the Senate had been silent respecting the publication, have
appeared to oppose their sense by an official disclosure. The
French minister has been informed of the contents seasonably.
No extraordinary sensibility has been discovered by him respect-
ing the treaty. The Spaniards are, however, feverish with respect
to the Mississippi article. Between ourselves, I have reason
to believe that a cession of Louisiana and the Floridas will be
required by France, as the price of peace, and I believe they will
obtain them. The Spaniards must comply, and the French will
offer a guaranty of the remaining Spanish American dominions.
The effect of this measure on our affairs it is easy to foresee.

By late letters from France there is reason to fear that the
most destructive commotions will be produced by the scarcity or
rather famine in that country. Mr. M.'s family, of fourteen
persons, were allowed two pounds of bread per diem. Flour
costs forty dollars per barrel in specie. The finances were in a
state of ruin, as appears from facts, though the conclusion is not
admitted. The canton of Berne has prohibited the exportation
of provisions, from a fear of famine among themselves. I am
inclined to believe that our friends, the Dutch, are irretrievably
ruined. A commissioner is known to have gone from Paris to
Amsterdam for mone}T, &c, &c.

I have every reason, short of official information, to believe
that the stock purchased has arrived. This resource, with the
liberty of postponing the instalment, the chance of negotiating
bills on this country, and an arrangement which I have made

16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \Mt. 38.

by bills on Hamburg and Paris, in the alternative of a failure at
either place, gives every chance for supporting our credit at this
crisis, which the nature of things will admit. All money negotia-
tions, except with England, are and must be hazardous to a cer-
tain degree. There is, indeed, a French link in the chain upon
which reliance must be had.

The anticipations which you intimate in the case of Mr. F

I have felt with much anxiety. It would astonish you to know
how far the capital of this country has been placed in the power
of France by speculations to that country and the excessive use
of credit during the last season. If we have a good crop, and the
ardor of speculation can be checked, so as to allow a loss which I
know to be inevitable to fall gradually upon us, the merchants
will struggle through ; but if we proceed in our present course
until a sudden revulsion takes place, the consequences may be
serious. As yet the revenue comes in as usual, but further anti-
cipations will, in the present state of things, be attended with
difficulty.

Various opinions obtain respecting the treaty, but I think
people here are more temperate than in some other places,
especially at Baltimore and at the southward. There is much
prejudice which will be dispelled, and I think that the country
cannot be much excited.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, 13th July, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

I have in the regular course of the posts been duly favored
with your letters of the 9th, accompanying your observations on
the several articles of the treaty with Great Britain, and of the
10th, supplementary thereto.

For both, I offer you my sincere thanks, as they have

iET. 38.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 17

afforded me great satisfaction. Although, it was my wish that
your observations on each article should be diffusive, yet I am
really ashamed when I behold the trouble it has given you to
expose, and to explain so fully as you have, the whole of them.

The most obnoxious article (the 12th) being suspended by
the Senate, there is no occasion to express any sentiment thereon.
I wish, however, it had appeared in a different form. And
although it is but fair to presume that no further advantage
could have been obtained in the 3d article, yet the exclusion of
the vessels belonging to the United States, from all the " sea-
ports, harbors, bays, or creeks of his Majesty," when theirs are
admitted into all ours, to the highest ports of entry, is not
marked with reciprocity. It may be urged, and truly, that under
the existing regulations of the British government, we are not
at this time allowed those privileges, except when they are made
to subserve their own purposes ; whilst from Quebec (but how
we are to get there I know not), and upwards, the lakes and the
waters on their side of the line are open to our commerce, and
that we have equal advantages in the Indian trade on both sides,
except within the limits of the Hudson's Bay Company.

All this looks very well on paper, but I much question
whether in its operation it will not be found to work very much
against us. 1st. What are the limits of that company ? Are
they so defined, and so clearly understood, as that our traders,
when they are in the wilderness, can with precision say, thus far
I may of right go without let or hindrance ? 2d. Admitting the
fact, will they not, having possession of the trade, and the
Indians being in their interest, by every artifice of their traders,
prevent ours from extending themselves into the country, sharing
in the profits, and thereby bringing on disputes which may ter-
minate seriously ? 3d. Does not the hitherto (I might add pre-
sent) improper interference of the British within our territory,
and the solicitude that government has manifested on all occa-
sions to get a footing on the Mississippi, and on the waters and
carrying places leading thereto, evince, in a most unequivocal
manner, that disputes may be expected to arise within our terri-
tory as well as their oica, from the attempts of their traders to
F 2

18 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

monopolize the trade, and from the overbearing support or
underhand countenance they will give, not only in what is right,
but in what is convenient to its views also ?

My opinion of this article, therefore, is, that it would have
been more for our peace, if not for our interest, to have restrained
the traders of both nations to their own side of the line, leaving
the Indians on each to go to whichsoever their interest, conve-
vience, or inclination might prompt them. This would have
thwarted the views of the British on the Mississippi, whilst all
the doors into Upper Canada, and the western country, would
have been as wide open then as they are now made by this treaty ;
and no difficulty, I am persuaded, would have been found by
our people of introducing goods across the line after they had
got them to it, and the posts possessed by us, if this avenue
should be found the most convenient and cheapest.

I wish, too, the 2d article had been more definite with respect
to the terms "precincts or jurisdiction;" except that the short-
ness of its duration for operation may afford a remedy, I should
expect many disputes to arise therefrom.

I asked, or intended to ask, in my letter of the 3d, whether
you conceived (admitting the suspension of the 12th article
should be agreed to by the British government) there would be
a necessity for the treaty going before the Senate again for their
advice and consent? This question takes its birth from a
declaration of a minority of that body to that effect.
With much truth and sincerity,

I am always your affectionate,

Geo. Washington.

Colonel Alexander Hamilton.

P. S. I was almost in the act of sending the inclosed letter
to the post-office, when your favor of the 11th was put into my
hands.

Query. Whether the passage which you have quoted from
the 15th article, in your letter of the above date, does not mean
that no prohibition shall be imposed on the exportation or im-
portation of any articles to and from the United States, which shall
not also be imposed on the like exportation or importation to or

iET. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 19

from other foreign nations? That is, that the United States
shall be under no other disability than any other foreign nations.
If so, there would seem to be no privilege granted, but only an
engagement, that other nations shall not be rivals to the United
States, by being freed from the prohibition. For example.
Your idea is, that whatever of its own produce Spain may carry
from their territory ; that is they may re-export to England
Spanish produce. I wish this could be made clear ; for I readily
see the advantage of it in one sense ; though I am not sure that
we can bring any country, except the East Indies, into our own,
the produce of it, and re-export it to England, so as to make a
profit from this circuitous voyage. G. W.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 14th July, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I received your favor of yesterday this moment, when I am
on the eve of a journey to Virginia.

The opinion which you have given as to its being necessary
to submit the new article to the Senate, being in direct opposi-
tion to that of the Secretaries and of the Attorney-General, has
occasioned some embarrassment with me. For I always under-
stood it to be the sense of a majority of the Senate, that they
were not to pass their judgment upon the new article further
than they have done. But as I shall be absent, and Mr. Ean-
dolph has before him the bringing up of this business to a close,
I wish you to write to him your ideas, if upon mature reflection
you shall think differently from the gentlemen around me, or
you find the sense of the Senate to be different from what I have
been led to expect. I have told Mr. Eandolph that your senti-
ments do not agree with those which I received from the officers
of government, and have desired him to revise them. I have

20 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

also told him that I have requested the favor of you to write to
him on this subject.

Very affectionately,

And always am, yours,

Geo. Washington.

P. S. Notwithstanding one great object of my visit to
Mount Vernon is relaxation, yet to hear from you the senti-
ments entertained of the treaty, and in short, on any other inter-
esting subject with which the public mind is occupied, would be
a considerable gratification. The state of our pecuniary matters
in Holland, at this time, is a bar to Mr. Adams's leaving that
country ; but the next best step will be adopted.

Yours, as before, (x. W.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 20. 1795.

I have received your several letters, dated June 22d, 26th,
30th, and the 2d current.

The new publication of the treaty was a measure not consist-
ent with my first impressions and expectations. It was not,
however, left by the Senate in the manner you suppose. Their
resolution, indeed, evinces the contrary ; and the Executive must,
in addition to whatever difficulties would have attended a publi-
cation, if the Senate had been silent respecting the publication,
have appeared to oppose their anger by an official disclosure.

The French minister has been informed of the contents
seasonably. No extraordinary sensibility has been discovered
by him respecting the treaty. The Spaniards are, however,
feverish with respect to the Mississippi article.

Between ourselves, I have reason to believe that a cession of
Louisiana and the Floridas will be required by France as the
price of peace, and I believe they will obtain them.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 21

The Spaniards must comply, and the French will offer a
guarantee of the remaining Spanish American dominions. The
effects of this measure on our affairs it is easy to foresee.

By late letters from France, there is reason to fear that the
most destructive commotions will be produced by the scarcity or
rather famine in that country. Mr. Monroe's family, of fourteen
persons, were allowed two pounds of bread per diem. Flour
cost forty dollars per barrel in Spain. The finances were in a
state of rain, as appears from facts, though the conclusion is not
admitted. The canton of Berne have prohibited the exportation
of provisions from a fear of famine among themselves.

I am inclined to believe that our friends the Dutch are irre-
trievably ruined — a commission is known to have gone from
Paris to Amsterdam for money, &c, &c.

I have every reason, short of official information, to believe
that the stock purchased has arrived. This resource, with the
liberty of postponing the instalment, the chance of negotiating
bills on this country, and an arrangement which I have made
by bills on Hamburgh and Paris in the alternative of a failure at
either place, gives every chance for supporting our credit at this
crisis, which the nature of things will admit. All money nego-
tiations, except with England, are and must be hazardous to a
certain degree. There is indeed a French link in the chain upon
which reliance must be had.

The anticipations which you intimate in the case of Mr.
Franklin, I have felt with much anxiety. It would astonish you to
know how far the capital of this country has been placed in the
power of France by speculations to that country, and the exces-
sive use of credit during the last season. If we have a good
crop, and the ardor of speculation can be checked, so as to allow
a loss, which I know to be inevitable, to fall gradually upon us,
the merchants will struggle through, but if we proceed in our
present course, until a sudden revulsion takes place, the conse-
quences may be serious. As yet the revenue comes in as usual,
but further anticipations will, in the present state of things, be
attended with difficulty.

I shall do every thing practicable for Mr. Franklin, but I do

22 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

not see how the measure he has resorted to, of entering a caveat
against the transfer of the new stock, can be of any service.
This government certainly cannot compel the execution of a
contract by the French government by any process in this
country.

I have looked at my house and in the office, and sent to the
Secretary of the Senate respecting your* French book, and have
caused a general search for Mr. Livingston's book and papers,
but as yet without success : the letters ought to have been with
Mr. Cox and Mr. Harrison, who say they have not had them. I
shall pursue the matter further. Your opinion on some of the
points mentioned in my letter will be acceptable, when you have
leisure.

Various opinions obtain respecting the treaty, but I think
people here are more temperate than in some other places, espe-
cially at Baltimore, and at the southward. There is much preju-
dice which will be dispelled, and I think that the country cannot
be much excited.

RANDOLPH TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 21st, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I am much obliged to you for your explanatory letter to my-
self, and your permission for my inspection of the two addressed
to your southern correspondent; I had intended to drop you a few
lines upon the depending subject. But hearing that you are to
be at the Supreme Court of the United States, and not being
able to say to you much sooner than the first day of their ses-
sion what I wish, it will be deferred to a personal interview.

I am, dear Sir,
With great esteem and regard, &c.

iET.38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 23

LINCOLN TO HAMILTON.

Boston, July 24th, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

I have the pleasure to forward the inclosed letter from our
treasurer, which will give the best light I can obtain on the ques-
tion you submitted to me.
Are the people mad !

With the highest esteem, and the warmest affection,
I am your friend and obedient servant,

B. Lincoln.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, July 28th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

We have some cause to suspect, though not enough to be-
lieve, that our Jacobins meditate serious mischief to certain indi-
viduals. It happens that the militia of this city, from the com-
plexion of its officers in general, cannot be depended on, and it
will be difficult for some time to organize a competent armed
substitute. In this situation our eyes turn as a resource in a
sudden emergency, upon the military now in the forts, but these,
we are told, are under marching orders. Pray converse confi-
dentially with the Secretary at War, and engage him to sus-
pend the march. Matters in eight or ten days will explain
themselves.

How are things truly in Philadelphia ? I have good reason
to believe that the President, before he left Philadelphia, had
concluded to ratify the treaty according to the advice of the

24 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Senate. Has any thing finally been done, or are we where we
were?

Yours, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, July 28th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

You see that attempts are made to stir up a flame, and con-
vulse the country respecting the treaty. Though the actors
hitherto are known to be a factious set of men, and their fol-
lowers generally a contemptible mob, yet from the systematical
manner in which they have proceeded, and some curious facts
which have recently come to my knowledge, I cannot but sus-
pect foul play by persons not generally suspected. Every thing
is conducted in a mysterious and strange manner by a certain
character here, and, to my astonishment, I am recently informed
that Mr. Eutledge has had a tender of the office of Chief Justice.

By the favor of Heaven, the commission is not opened, and
now I presume it will not be ; but how much ruin and disgrace
has the country seen ?

Cannot you come and attend the Supreme Court for a few
days the nest week ? A bed at my house is at your command.
If you cannot, pray drop me a line.

Will you reply briefly to a few questions I lately stated ? I
care not how briefly. Your ideas upon a system projected
essentially by you, will enable me to proceed with less hesita-
tion. Indeed I need some help. There is no comptroller here
as yet, and now I have suffered an irreparable loss by the
appointment of Mr. Kane to be assistant cashier of the bank.

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 25

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Mount Vernon, July 29th, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Your letters of the 20th and 21st inst. found me at this place,
after a hot and disagreeable ride.

As the measures of the government respecting the treaty-
were taken before I left Philadelphia, something more imperious
than has yet happened must turn up to occasion a change. Still,
it is very desirable to ascertain, if possible, after the paroxysm of
the fever is a little abated, what the real temper of the people is
concerning it ; for at present the cry against the treaty is like
that against a mad dog ; and every one, in a manner, seems en-
gaged in running it down.

That it has received the most tortured interpretation, and that
the writings against it (which are very industriously circulated)
are pregnant of the most abominable misrepresentations, admits
of no doubt ; yet there are to be found, so far as my informa-
tion extends, many well-disposed men who conceive that in the
settlement of old disputes a proper regard to reciprocal justice
does not appear in the treaty ; whilst others also well enough
affected to the government, are of opinion, that to have had no
commercial treaty, would have been better for this country than
the restricted one agreed to ; inasmuch, say they, the nature of
our exports and imports (without any extra or violent measures)
would have forced or led to a more adequate intercourse between
the two nations without any of those shackles which the treaty
has imposed. In a word, that as our exports consist chiefly of
provisions and raw materials, which to the manufacturers of Great
Britain and their islands in the "West Indies, affords employment
and food, they must have had them on our own terms, if they
were not to be obtained on their own ; whilst the imports of this
country offers the best mart for their fabrics ; and of coiirse is
the jDrincipal support of their manufacturers. But the string
which is most played on, because it strikes with most force the

26 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

popular car, is the violation, as they term it, of our engagements
with France ; or, in other words, the predilection shown by that
instrument to Great Britain at the expense of the French nation.
The consequences of which are more to be apprehended than
any which are likely to flow from other causes, as grounds of
opposition, because, whether the fact is in any degree true or not,
it is the interest of the French, whilst the animosity or jealousies
between the two nations exist, to avail themselves of such spirit
to keep us and Great Britain at variance ; and they will, in my
opinion, accordingly do it. To what length their policy will in-
duce them to carry matters is too much in embryo at this moment
to decide ; but I predict much embarrassment to the government
therefrom — and, in my opinion, too much pains cannot be taken
by those who speak or write in favor of the treaty, to place this
matter in its true light.

I have seen with pleasure that a writer in one of the New-
York papers, under the signature of Camillus, has promised to
answer — or rather to defend the treaty which has been made
with Great Britain. To judge of this work from the first num-
ber, which I have seen, I augur well of the performance ; and
shall expect to see the subject handled in a clear, distinct and
satisfactory manner ; — but if measures are not adopted for its
dissemination, a few only will derive lights from the knowledge
or labor of the author, whilst the opposition pieces will spread
their poison in all directions ; and Congress, more than probable,
will assemble with the unfavorable impressions of their constitu-
ents. The difference of conduct between the friends and foes of
order and good government, is in nothing more striking than
that the latter are always working like bees ; whilst the former,
depending oftentimes too much and too long upon the sense and
good disposition of the people to work conviction, neglect the
means of effecting it.

With sincere esteem and regard,
I am your affectionate

George Washington.

Mt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 27

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTOX.

Philadelphia, July 30th, 179-5.

Dear Sir:

I have your letter of the 28th. I will see the Secretary at
War this morning, and you may rely upon it the movement will
be suspended.

The true state of things in this city is, that the treaty was at
first unpopular. The expectations of vain, sanguine men, who
considered this country as all-powerful, and entitled to dictate,
were not satisfied. Every engine of faction was successfully set
at work. At present there is more temper and moderation ; the
truth begins to prevail. I think we shall have no dangerous
riots ; but one month will determine the fate of our country, so
far as depends on ourselves. The extreme hazards of foreign
war I do not take into account.

I dare not write, and hardly dare think of, what I know and
believe respecting a certain character, whose situation gives him
a decided influence. There has as yet nothing more passed be-
tween the government and Mr. Hammond than a verbal confer-
ence, in which the President's opinion respecting the merits of
the treaty has been declared to be like that of the Senate. No
written memorial has passed, nor have any measures as relative
to the ratifications been adopted.

The ratification of the President has, moreover, been con-
nected with the repeal of some unknown order, respecting vessels
bound with provisions to France. Though this was a condition
improperly prescribed, in my opinion, yet the circumstance
might have been mentioned in a manner which would not be
offensive, and have assumed the form of a prudent precaution
on the part of the President.

But what must the British government think of the United
States when they find the treaty clogged with one condition by
the Senate, with another by the President ; no answer given, in
a precise form, after forty days ; no minister in that country to
take up negotiations proposed by ourselves ; the country rising

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 38.

into a flame ; their minister's house insulted by a mob ; their
flag dragged through the streets, as in Charlestown, and burnt
before the doors of their consul ; a driveller and fool appointed
Chief Justice, &c, &c. ; can they believe we desire peace?

I shall take immediate measures with two of my colleagues
this very day. They are firm and honest men. We will, if
possible, to use a French phrase, save our country. You must
not think we have been to blame for the delay. We have been
constantly amused by Eandolph, who has said that the President
was determined to ratify. The precise state of the business has
never been communicated till within a few days. The affairs of
his department are solely conducted by himself. Feel no con-
cern, however, for I see a clue which I know will conduct us
through every labyrinth except that of war. On that point we
must take our chance. It would be well if you, or Mr. King,
or Governor Jay, could be here some time next week, provided
too much speculation would not be excited.

WASHINGTON" TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, August 3d, 1795.

Dear Sir :

The inclosed was written, as you will perceive, on the 29th
ultimo, and, with many other letters, was sent to the post-office
in Alexandria, to proceed with the northern mail next morning.
But the blundering postmaster of that place, in putting the let-
ters addressed to, put all the letters from me into my own bag;
of course they were returned to me. Since which the unusual
(at almost any season of the year) and violent rains which have
fallen, have given such interruption to the post as to detain my
letters to this time ; and although I am now sending them to
the post-office, I have little expectation of their proceeding
to-morrow — the waters being yet very high, and the bridges all

Mr. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 29

gone. In short, the damage of every sort is very great in these
parts.

Yours, always,

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO OLIVER WOLCOTT.

New-York, August 10th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter by Saturday's post. The one
you inquire about was received.

I incline very much to the opinion that this will be the
proper course of conduct in reference to the order to seize our
vessels with provisions, viz. : To send to our agent the treaty
ratified as advised by the Senate, with this instruction, — That if
the order for seizing provisions is in force when he receives it,
he is to inform the British ministry that he has the treaty ratified,
but that he is instructed not to exchange the ratification till that
order is rescinded, since the United States cannot ever give an
implied sanction to the principle. At the same time, a remon-
strance ought to go from this country, well considered, and well
digested, even to a word, to be delivered against the principle of
the order.

My reasons for this opinion are summarily these : —
Firstly — That in fact we are too much interested in the
exemption of provisions from seizure, to give even an implied
sanction to the contrary pretensions.

Secondly — That the exchange of ratifications pending such
an order, would give color to an abusive construction of the
eighteenth article of the treaty, as though it admitted of the
seizure of provisions.

Tit irdly — That this would give cause of umbrage to France,
because it would be more than merely to refrain from resisting
by force, an innovation injurious to her ; but it would be to give
a sanction to it in the midst of a war.

30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Fourthly — It would be thus construed in our country, and
would destroy confidence in the government.

Fifthly — It would scarcely be reputable to a nation to con-
duct a treaty with, a power to heal past controversies, at the
very moment of a new and existing violation of its rights.

P. S. If an order has existed, and has been rescinded, the
remonstrance ought still to be presented, after the exchange of
ratifications, as a protest against the principle, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, August 15, 1795.

Dear Sir:

The President has decided that the treaty shall be ratified,
and transmitted for exchange immediately ; and in my opinion
he has decided right. I regret that this was not done long
since, as I presume much of the party spirit which has been in-
vited would have been prevented.

A government like ours can rarely take a middle course on
any point which interests the public feelings. Delay, for what-
ever reason, would be construed into a dislike of the treaty it-
self; and this opinion diffusing among the people, would gene-
rate the most inveterate factions. Circumstances have happened
tending to incite a distrust of the sincerity of this government in
the British cabinet, which can be no otherwise explained than
by a ratification.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 31

RANDOLPH TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, August 1G, 1795.

Dear Sir :

I expected to have the pleasure of seeing you here at the
Supreme Court, when I meant to enter into a full conversation
with you. But being disappointed, I shall only beg you to read
a letter, which I have this day written to Mr. Jay, and requested
him to show to you. If I do not mistake, your ideas and mine
were not very different as to the provision order.
I am, dear Sir,

With real esteem and regard, &c.

Philadelphia, August 16th, 1795.
Sir:

I have forwarded, agreeably to your Excellency's request, the letter which
you inclosed to me for General Lee.

It was always my intention to inform you of the President's final act on the
treaty. This being now taken by an assurance in writing to Mr. Hamilton that
it would be immediately ratified ; and the necessary forms being on the point of
completion, little need be added on that head. But candor induces me to ex-
plain to you some opinions, produced by a recent occurrence, relative to an im-
mediate exchange of ratifications.

You know, sir, the sentiments which I have always entertained, and still en-
tertain upon the treaty. To dictate the terms we could not expect ; and there-
fore the single question with me was, whether, under all circumstances, the plea-
sant things did not outweigh the unpleasant. My mind told me that in this view
we ought to ratify. So that upon the treaty itself, I have been constantly pre-
pared to give my affirmation. But the late order for seizing our provision vessels
goes beyond the treaty ; and required, that for the sake of national dignity, and
of silencing the complaints of the French, one effort ought to be made for remov-
ing that order out of the way. To exchange ratifications and afterwards object?
was a feeble and unavailing expedient. The means of rendering the effort effec-
tual, seemed to consist in not consummating the treaty, until the minister who
was to exchange should urge the rescinding of the order, and, upon being re-
fused, should receive further instructions. I saw no danger of losing the treaty
by this measure ; because the President might as well have the ratification ex-
changed a few months hence, as now ; and the difference of time between an
immediate exchange and a future one would have been but a few weeks ; the
space sufficient for the passage of the papers from London, if the British king

32 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

should assent to the exchange being made in the United States. I had a hope,
too, that even if the order was not withdrawn by that time, that the present cam-
paign, which is probably the last, would be so far advanced, and the French har-
vest would have banished famine to such a degree, that we should have avoided
the suspicion of a desire to co-operate in the attempt to starve France. I was
persuaded also that the treaty will, for the most part, be postponed for its effect,
until Congress shall pass auxiliary laws. I doubted, too, whether the surrender
of the posts would be much quickened by concluding the treaty immediately ;
since I feared that the unexpected waste of this summer, without its completion,
might prompt the British government to take a further time.

The President was occupied until the 13th -of July in considering what was
to be done ; and then decided on a course somewhat analogous to these ideas.
He left Philadelphia on the 15th; and about a week afterwards I sent down to
him at Mount Vernon the draft of a memorial to Mr. Hammond, upon the subject
of the treaty. From the blunder of the postmaster at Alexandria, and the great
floods of rain, his instructions and the memorial were not returned to me until
the 5th of August. Although I was at perfect liberty to announce publicly the
President's decision, and was rather urged to do so, yet I held it best to keep him
at liberty to mature the business farther ; and accordingly he, on Thursday last,
thought proper to take a course very different from that which he first pro-
jected. In that course I acquiesce, and shall certainly support it to the best of
my faculties.

I make these last observations, because from something which I have seen, I am
confident, that it has been supposed, that unnecessary delay has occurred, and for
a purpose, not reconcilable with a friendship to the treaty. In this view I will
go into the following statement of the papers, which I had drawn, upon the plan
which the President at first preferred.

These were a memorial and instructions.

The memorial declared, that the President would ratify, upon the provision
order being laid aside : that if this was not done, the President would take the
subject into farther consideration ; that the doing of this should be the only obstacle
to the pursuing of the advice of the Senate ; that in order however to produce
perfect cordiality the King was inviled — 1st. To provide by some clear distinction
against the impressment of our citizens. 2d. To reconsider the compensation of
the negroes. 3d. To cause the execution of the 7th article to be expedited, and
the expense thereof lessened. 4th. To give instructions against the vexations of
privateers and the rigors of some of the American admiralties. The reason why
I again brought up the negroes was, that, as the amount would to the British
nation be small, so the King might, upon reconsideration, be desirous of giving
the best chance for conciliation, by removing one of the chief irritations.

You perceive, sir, that there was no ultimatum in all this ; nor yet the
semblance of one, except as to the provision order, which could be an obstruction
for only a few months more.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 33

The instructions went upon a broader scale; but as the negotiation under
them was subsequent to the ratification, it was referred to the discretion of the
minister to endeavor to procure a greater latitude of advantages, than we enjoy.
This being so familiar a practice, I need not detail the particulars of that
instrument.

I ought to add, that the reason why a memorial was at all thought of, was,
that the President at first believed (as I confess I did), that he could not ratify
until the new suspending article was agreed to by the British King. It thereby
became necessary to assure him in writing, that he affected no delays, and meant
to ratify if the provision order was abolished.

I will thank you to permit Mr. King and Col. Hamilton to see this letter ; and
I beg you to receive the tender of that respect and esteem, with which I have the
honor to be, Sir,

Your Excellency's most obedient servant,

Edmund Randolph.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, August 31st, 1705.

My Dear Sir :

Since my return to this city I have received a letter from you
dated August.

"We know officially, as well as from the effects, that an order
for seizing all provision vessels going to France has been issued
by the British Government ; but so secretly, that as late as the
27th of June it had not been published in London ; it was com-
municated to the cruisers only, and not known until the captures
brought it to light. By these high-handed measures of that gov-
ernment, and the outrageous and insulting conduct of its officers,
it would seem next to impossible to keep peace between the
United States and Great Britain.

To this moment we have received no explanation of Holmes'

conduct from their charge des affaires here ; although application

was made for it before the departure of Mr. Hammond on the

statement of Governor Fenner, and complaint of the French min-

f 3

34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

ister. Conduct like this disarms the friends of peace and order,
while they are the very things which those of a contrary descrip-
tion wish to see practised.

I meant no more than barely to touch upon the subject of
this letter, the object of it being, to request the favor of you to
give me the points on which, in your opinion, our new negotiator
is to dwell when we come into the field of negotiation again ;
agreeably to the recommendation of the Senate; agreeably to
what appears to have been contemplated by Mr. Jay and Lord
Grenville, at the close of the treaty subscribed by them ; and
agreeably, also, to what you conceive ought to be brought for-
ward and insisted upon on this occasion.

I am sorry that I have been so late in applying for this opin-
ion, but a coincidence of unexpected events have involved me in
more than usual business, and some of it not of a very pleasant
nature. This has occasioned the delay ; but the pros and cons
relative to the treaty that is, and the treaty that ought to be, in
the judgment of the opponents, are so much in your view, that
if you wanted a remembrancer, you would be at no loss from
these discussions to advert to them ; and you will require but
little time to furnish me with what I have here asked. This I
press with more earnestness, inasmuch as circumstances will ren-
der it very inconvenient for me to remain here longer than the
present week (before I return to Mount Yernon for my family),
but which I must do until the instructions for the new negotiator
are completed.

Although you are not in the administration — a thing I sin-
I cerely regret — I must, nevertheless, (knowing how intimately
acquainted you are with all the concerns of this country,) request
the favor of you to note down such occurrences as, in your opin-
ion, are proper subjects for communication to Congress at their
next session — and particularly as to the manner in which this
treaty should be brought forward to that body ; as it will, in any
aspect it is susceptible of receiving, be the source of much declam-
ation, and will, I have no doubt, produce a hot session.
With sincere regard, I am, my dear Sir,

Your affectionate and obedient

Geo. Washington.

At. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 35

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Monday Morning, 2d September, 1795.

Dear Sir:

Interwoven in the inclosed address are sentiments as difficult
to answer, as it would seem hard to pass by unnoticed, believing,
as I do, that they are the sentiments of a large part of the people
of this country.

I would thank you for making such alterations in the ex-
pression of the draft of an answer (inclosed), as in your judg-
ment will make it palatable on all sides, or unexceptionable.
The bearer will wait, as I wish to return the answer by the mail
of to-day.

Yours always,

G-. Washington.

No matter how rough the answer comes to me, so that it can
be read.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, Sept. 4, 1795.

Sir:

I had the pleasure of receiving, two days since, your letter of
the 31st ultimo. A great press of business, and an indifferent
state of health, have put it out of my power sooner to attend to it.

The incidents which have lately occurred have been in every
way vexatious and untoward. They render indispensable a
very serious, though calm and measured, remonstrance from this
government, carrying among others this idea, that it is not suffi-
cient that the British government entertain towards our nation
no hostile dispositions ; 'tis essential that they take adequate
measures to prevent those oppressions of our citizens, and of
our commerce, by their officers and courts, of which there are

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

too frequent examples, and by which we are exposed to suffer
inconveniences too nearly approaching to those of a state of war.
A strong expectation should be signified of the punishment of
Capt. Holmes, for the attempt to violate an ambassador passing
through our territory, and for the hostile and offensive menaces
which he has thrown out. The dignity of our country, and the
preservation of the confidence of the people in the government,
require both solemnity and seriousness in these representations.

As to the negotiation for alteration in, and additions to, the
treaty, I think it ought to embrace the following objects : —

A new modification of the 12th article, so as to extend the
tonnage, and restrain the prohibition to export from this country
to articles of the growth or production of the British islands.
The more the tonnage is extended the better ; but I think ninety
tons would work advantageously if nothing better could be done.
I had even rather have the article with seventy, as it stood, than
not at all, if the restriction on exportation is placed on the proper
footing. Some of our merchants, however, think its value would
be questionable at so low a tonnage as seventy. It would be
also desirable that the article should enumerate the commodities
which may be carried to, and brought from the British islands.
This would render it more precise and more intelligible to all.

Great Britain may have substantial security for the execution
of the restriction, if it be stipulated on our side,—" That a law
shall be passed and continued in force during the continuance of
the article, prohibiting the exportation in vessels of the United
States, of any of the articles in question, if brought from British
islands, on pain of forfeiture of the vessel, for wilful breach of
the law ; and that the same law shall provide that the regula-
tions contained in our laws respecting drawbacks, shall be
applied to all exportations in our vessels of the articles in ques-
tion, to ascertain that they were imported into the United States
from other than British islands, and this whether a drawback of
duty is required or not by the exporter; and shall also provide
that all such articles exported in our vessels from the United
States, shall be expressed in the clearance, with a certificate of
the collector endorsed, specifying that he has carefully examined,

iEi.38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 37

according to the treaty and to the law, the identity of the articles
exported, and that it did bona fide appear to him that they had
not been imported from any British island or islands." This
security is the greatest difficulty in the case, and would, in my
opinion, be given by a provision similar to the foregoing.

It would be a very valuable alteration in the loth article, if
a right could be stipulated for the United States to go with articles
taken in the British territories in India, to other parts of Asia.
The object of the present restriction upon us to bring them to
America, was, I believe, to prevent our interference with the
British East India Company in the European trade in India
goods. If so, there could be no objection to our having a right
to carry commodities from the British territories to other parts
of Asia. But if all this latitude cannot be obtained, it would be
a great point gained to have a right to carry them thence to
China. It is a usual and beneficial course of the trade to go
from the United States to Bombay, and take in there a freight
for Canton, purchase at the last place a cargo of teas, &c.

It would be well if that part of the loth article, which speaks
of countervailing duties, could be so explained as to fix its sense.
I am of opinion that its only practicable construction is, and
ought to be, that they may lay on the exportation from their Eu-
ropean dominions, in vessels of the United States, the same addi-

■l duties on articles which we lay on the importation of the
same articles into the United States in British vessels. But the
terms of the clause are vague and general, and may give occasion
to set up constructions injurious and contentious.

As to the more exact equalization of duties, of which this
article speaks, it is a ticklish subject, and had better, I think, be
left alone.

It would be right that it should be expressly agreed that
wherever our vessels pay, in the ports of Great Britain, higher
charges than their own vessels, a proportional reduction shall be
made out of any duty of tonnage which may be laid on our ves-
sels to counteract the difference of tonnage on theirs in our
ports.

The 18th article is really an unpleasant one, and, though there

38 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

is, I fear, little chance of altering it for the better, it may be ne-
cessary, for the justification of the President, to attempt it. The
standard to be approached by us as nearly as possible is that in
our treaty with France. As to the point of free ships making
free goods, though it be desirable to us to establish it if practi-
cable— and ought to be aimed at — yet I neither expect that it
will be done at present, nor that the great maritime powers will be
disposed to suffer it to become an established rule, and I verily
believe that it will be very liable, though stipulated, to be disre-
garded, as it has been by France through the greater part of the
present war. But naval stores and provisions ought, if possible,
to be expressly excluded from the list of contraband— except
when going to a blockaded or besieged port, town, or fortress,
or to a fleet or army engaged in a military operation, for I can
imagine no other cases in which there is a just pretence to make
provisions contraband.

Some provision for the protection of our seamen is infinitely
desirable. At least Great Britain ought to agree that no seamen
shall be impressed out of any of our vessels at sea, and that none
shall be taken out of such vessel in any of her colonies which
were in the vessel at the time of her arrival at such colony. This
provision ought to be pressed with energy as one unexception-
ably just, and at the same time safe for Great Britain.

The affair of the negroes, to give satisfaction, may be retouch-
ed, but with caution and delicacy. The resolution proposed in
the Senate will afford a good standard for this.

As to the crowd of loose suggestions respecting the treaty,
which have no reasonable foundation, it would not consist with
the reputation of the Government to move concerning them.
Only reasonable things merit, or can, with propriety, have atten-
tion.

I beg, Sir, that you will at no time have any scruples about
commanding me. I shall always with pleasure comply with
your commands. I wish ■• my health, or the time for it, would
permit me now to be more correct. The other part of your
letter shall be carefully attended to in time.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 39

With, the truest respect, and the most affectionate attachment,
I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your obedient and humble servant,

A. Hamilton.

The President of the United States.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Sept. 26, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of the 20th, and regret the cause
which deprived me of the pleasure of seeing you.

Nothing is known of the authors to which you allude. The
"Features of the Treaty," were doubtless painted by Dallas.
Doctors Logan and Lieb, Bache, Beekley, T. L. Shippen, are much
suspected. I. Sayre, of New Jersey, is, I understand, very vio-
lent. Perhaps the avowed intemperance of these men against
the government, is the only evidence against them. I can furnish
no direct proof.

Mr. Eandolph has published a preface, which you have seen.
This is the opening up of a new and very extraordinary cam-
paign— perhaps you know something of the cause of his hostility.
I consider Mr. Eandolph as perfectly desperate and malignant.
He will do all the mischief in his power. His long acquaintance
with our affairs ; the predominating influence which he has pos-
sessed in those which concerned his own department, and his
skill in misrepresentation, furnish him with important advan-
tages. Dallas is councillor in all his councils, and will, of course,
prune away many indiscretions, and render a bad cause as plausi-
ble as the nature of it will admit. I rely, however, upon the
sense and virtue of the public, and trust that the truth will pre-
vail.

The public affairs are certainly in a critical state. I do not
clearly see how those of the treasury are to be managed. Our

40 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 38.

foreign resources are dried up ; our domestic are deeply antici-
pated, at least as respects the bank. Banks are multiplying like
mushrooms. The prices of all our exports arc impaired by paper
negotiations and unfounded projects, so that no foreign market
will indemnify the shippers. Our commerce is harassed by the
war, and our internal revenue unproductive of the expected
sums, owing to prejudice, combination, and the want of compe-
tent officers. Usury absorbs much of that capital which might
be calculated upon as a resource, if visionary speculations could
be destroyed.

You know, however, that I shall do the best in my power,
and that intimations from you will always be thankfully received.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, October 3d, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the and thank you for

the information. As to Eandolph, I shall be surprised at nothing,
but if the facts come out, his personal influence is at all events
damned. No coloring will remove unfavorable impressions. To
do mischief, he must work in the dark.

What you say respecting your own department disquiets me,
for I think we shall, for the present, weather all storms but
those from real deficiencies in our public arrangements. Not
knowing details, I can attempt to suggest nothing, except the
general observation, that if the means heretofore provided, are
seriously likely to prove inadequate, Congress ought to be expli-
citly told so, in order to a further provision. It was a maxim in
my mind, that executive arrangements should not fail for want
of full disclosure to the Legislature. Then, if adequate provision
be not made, the responsibility is theirs. The worst evil we can
struggle with, is inefficiency in the measures of government.

If I remember right, it never appeared that Fauchet had any

Mt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 41

power to make a commercial treaty with us, and the late
Attorney-General (Bradford) informed me, that Adet had power

only to treat, none to conclude. How are these things ? I ask for
special reasons.*

What is the object of the dispatch boat from France?
Nothing menacing, I hope.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Oct. Gth, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I will in a few days inform you of the facts upon which my
former letter was predicated.

The inclosed case of the Betsey, Captain Furlong, creates
much alarm here, and I think with reason. The same principles
will extirpate nine-tenths of our claims for spoliations, and lead
to new assaults upon our commerce.

I wish to know your opinion of the mode of proceedings
under the 7th article of our treaty with England. Must all cases
go through a process of litigation before the English courts before
they are submitted to Commissioners ? If so, for what purpose ?
Is the legality or illegality, the regularity or irregularity of a capture
to be determined solely in those courts ? Or will the commis-
sioners take up claims de novo ? This is an interesting question,

* Col. Pickering writes Wolcott in reference to the above :

" October Gth, 1705.
11 Dear Sir : — Mr. Taylor informs me that Mr. Fauchet never to his knowledge
made even any overtures relative to a treaty of any kind. I have cast my eye over
those of Mr. Adet, by which it appears, that lie is authorized to digest with the
American government a new treaty of commerce and a new consular convention, but
not to conclude any thing. Mr. Randolph agreed to meet him on this ground. If
the articles digested should meel the approbation of the respective governments,
they might give full powers to constitute of these articles the proposed new treaties.

" Sincerely yours,

"T. Pickering."

1- HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JET. 38.

for there is now little doubt but that the commissioners of
appeals will affirm most of the judgments of condemnation.

My doubt on this subject principally arises from finding that
the 6th article provides for the British debts in the same manner
as the 7th provides for the spoliation cases, and, moreover,
defines the cases to be those whose relief cannot be had in the
ordinary course of 'judicial proceedings.

Now it appears to me it would be a very dilatory, expensive,
and unnecessary process to compel an Englishman to travel
through our courts, merely to ascertain that they could not do
him justice, and to prepare his case for the commissioners. The
same objections exist against a similar operation in the British
courts of admiralty. Is it not, therefore, the meaning of the
treat}- that commissioners shall settle both descriptions of claims,
and award compensation according to principles of equity ? And
if this is the case, why is Mr. Bayard trying questions which are
decided against him, at an expense which he estimates may
amount to £75,000 sterling.

I must own I do not see through this business, and though
you may think it strange, I beg you to remember that I knew
nothing concerning the treaty till lately, and cannot devote
much time to it, without sacrificing objects more immediately in
the line of my duty.

The fact is, that the old doctrines of inalienable allegiance, and
that neutrals may not, in time of war, carry on a commerce in-
hibitedin time of peace, are to be advanced against the^ United
States; and from present appearances, they will govern the
courts of Admiralty. The effects which these principles will
have, I need not state to you ; if all this subject cannot be taken
up by commissioners and compromised equitably, the discussion
of the claims will work infinite mischief. I wish therefore to
see some way in which Mr. Bayard's agency at the British courts
might be arrested.

Mr. Fauchet made no overtures relating to a treaty of any
kind. M. Adet says he is authorized to digest a new treaty of
commerce, and a new consular convention, but not to conclude.
Mr. Bandolph agreed to meet him on this ground, but nothing
has been clone that I know of.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 43

I knoAV nothing of dispatches. The French minister is re-
served ; he thinks more than he expresses, and his expressions
breathe something of dissatisfaction. We are, I think, in no very
good way, but must make the best of circumstances. What you
say of efficiency is true, but there are no materials to be efficient
with.

Colonel Pickering and myself are perfectly agreed, and he is
as firm, industrious, and intelligent, as any body could wish.
There is, however, a mass of business, and few of that class of
men in the public service, Avho understand details, and endeavor
to keep things in order. Even our able clerks cannot be re-
tained; several have actually gone. Be pleased to jDresent my
respects to Mrs. Hamilton, and believe me ever yours.

N. B. — I have found your ordonnance de la marine, but have no
way to send it.

HAMILTON" TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, October loth, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 6th instant.

I am of opinion, that the commissioners to be appointed
under the seventh article, are competent to grant relief, in all
cases of captures and condemnations of our property, during the
present war, and antecedent to the treaty, which were contrary to
the laws of nations, and in which there is adequate evidence, (of
which they are to judge bona fide), that compensation could not,
at the time of the treaty, for whatever reason, be actually obtained.
I think their power competent to relief, after a decision, in the last
resort; that is, by the Lords Commissioners of Appeals, and if the
proper steps have been taken to ascertain that justice cannot be
had, in the ordinary course of justice, before and without such de-
cision.

This opinion is founded upon the following reasons.

44 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

Firstly. The subject of complaint to be redressed, is irregular
or illegal captures or condt mnations. The word "condemnations"
is general. It is not restricted to condemnations in the inferior
courts, or in the final Court of Appeals. It may then apply to
either. Condemnation in the last resort, may have been had prior
to the treaty. There being no restriction, they, like those in in-
ferior tribunals, were equally within the terms of complaint. Cut
could they be illegal? Yes, in controversies between nations,
respecting the application of the rules of the laws of nations,
decisions of the highest court of one of the parties, if contrary to
those rules, are illegal. In other words, they are contrary to
that law, which is the standard of legality and illegality between
nations, and, if manifestly so, are a cause of war. Moreover, this
rule of legality or illegality, is recognized by the article itself, in
that part which authorizes the commissioners to decide according
to the merits of the several cases, to justice, equity, and the laws
of nations.

Secondly. The article contemplates that " various circum-
stances " may obstruct compensation in the ordinary course of
justice. These terms would not be full}" satisfied by tying the
article down, as has been attempted, to cases of insolvency and
absconding.

Thirdly. The article expressly declares, that when compen-
sation cannot, " for whatever reason" be had in the ordinary
course of justice, it shall be made by the British government
ujiuii the award of the commissioners. It is inadmissible to
narrow down these very comprehensive terms to the two cases
of insolvency or absconding. They are commensurate with every
cause of irregularity or illegality, pronounced such by the laws
of nations. The exceptions of manifest delay, or negligence, or
wilful omission, confirm the extensive interpretation.

Fourthly. The commissioners are not restricted in the descrip-
tion of the cases they are to take up ; and they are to decide
them according to their merits, to justice, equity, and the laws of
nations. These terms are as latitudinary as they could be made.
They seem formed on purpose to overrule any technical difficul-
ties, with regard to local tribunals, or positive rules of decision
in those tribunals.

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 45

Fifthly. The nature of the circumstances which led to the
article, and which involved a controversy between two nations,
respecting the rules of the laws of nations, as well as the appli-
cation of those rules. The natural presumption is, that it was
meant to refer this controversy, in all its latitude, to the extra-
ordinary tribunal created ; to transfer the right of judgment of
each nation, which being exercised differently, might have ended
in Avar, to that tribunal. Any thing less than this would be
inadequate to the origin of the business, to the solemnity of the
provision, or to the views which, from the facts, must be con-
ceived to have governed the parties.

All this appears so clear to me, that I confess I am con-
founded at an opinion which I have seen of Messieurs Lewis and
Rawle. They seem to pare away the object of the articles to
the two cases mentioned above, founding their opinion upon the
maxim, that the courts of the belligerent power, are the compe-
tent tribunals to decide similar questions between that power
and a neutral nation.

This maxim is true ; but how can it be deemed to apply to
the instance of a controversy between two nations about the in-
terpretation of the laws of nations, and about decisions of courts
founded upon an interpretation concerning which they disa-
greed? And this, when an extraordinary tribunal has been
constituted by the joint acts of the two parties to decide their
differences plainly as a substitute for a controversy by arms?
Is not the constitution of such a tribunal, by the two parties, a
manifest abandonment of the pretension of one to administer
justice definitively through its tribunals ? How can it be pre-
sumed, after such a proceeding, that the neutral power meant to
be concluded by the decisions of those tribunals ? Is not the
reverse the obvious presumption ? Why else was it not left to
the British courts of Admiralty to liquidate the damages, in the
admitted cases of insolvency and absconding to be paid by the
government? These circumstances could call for a substitute
only in the person to pay, not in the person, or tribunal, which
was to liquidate. There was no need, on the principle set up, for
an extraordinary tribunal to liquidate and award damages !

46 HAMILTON'S WORKS. OEt. 38.

I confess, that the opinion referred to, appears to me desti-
tute of color, contrary to the antecedent course of the transac-
tion, contrary to the positive expressions of the article ; and to
what can reasonably be presumed to be the intention of the par-
ties. It fritters away to nothing a very solemn and important
act between two contending nations.

The exception of the cases in which justice might be obtain-
ed, in the ordinary course, appears to me to decide nothing. It
might be unobtainable in that course, as well from the obstruc-
tions of positive regulations of the belligerent parties controlling
the courts, and from false principles adopted by the courts, as
from the inability or default of the captors. The commissioners,
who are the Court of the two nations, are to pronounce whether
justice is unobtainable, in the ordinary course, for any of these
reasons. As the tribunal of. both parties, they are necessarily
superior to the tribunals of either. And they are the judges, in
their own way, and upon their own grounds of the question,
whether and when justice can or cannot be obtained in the ordi-
nary course.

But they ought to exercise their discretion reasonably, not to
abuse it; otherwise they may release the party injured from the
obligation to perform.

Hence, though it is not necessary that every individual case
of capture should be prosecuted to a decision in the last resort, it
appears to me proper, that by such prosecution of some one case
of the several classes of cases, it may be ascertained, by a final
decision on the principle of each class, that redress cannot be ob-
tained. Else the commissioners may object, that there has been
a neglect to procure for them satisfactory evidence, that justice
could not be had in the ordinary course.

I would advise, then, that our agent be instructed to lay all
the cases, with the evidence, before our counsel, and to desire
them to make a selection of one of each class, in which a defence
can be made with probability of success, on some difference of prin-
ciple, to have these cases prosecuted to an ultimate decision, and
to leave all the rest pending, if possible, undecided in a course of
appeal. This will give reasonable evidence to the commission-

vEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 47

ers, strengthened, in the view of those appointed by the other
party, by the character of our counsel, who, I learn, are every
way men of respectability.

The other points in your letter I shall pursue hereafter.

P. S. In a consultation on an insurance case, between our
district-attorney, Mr. Burr, B. Livingston, and myself, the above
points incidentally occurred, and I understood all these gentle-
men as agreeing in the opinion I have stated. You are at lib-
erty to communicate this to Mr. Pickering.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

New-York, Oct. 16th, 1795.

Sir:

About a fortnight since arrived here Mr. Tristel, with G. W.
Fayette, son of the marquis. The former, who is in capacity of
tutor to the latter, requested me to mention their arrival to you,
and that they meant to retire to some place in the neighboring
country, till they should receive some direction from you. Thus,
at least, I understood him ; and accordingly they are gone to a
house between Hackensack and Eamapo, in the Jerseys, to which
may be conveyed any letter you may confide to me for them.
They are incog.

Having been informed you were speedily expected from Phil-
adelphia, and being oppressed with occupation, I delayed writing-
till this time.

Mr. Tristel, who appears a very sedate, discreet man, informs
me that they left France with permission, though not in their
real characters, but in fact with the privity of some members of
the Committee of Safety, who were disposed to shut their eyes
and facilitate their departure.

The young Fayette also appears to me very advantageously ;
modest, of very good manners, and expressing himself with in-
telligence and propriety.

48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

Shall I trespass on your indulgence in hazarding a sentiment
upon the subject of this young gentleman? If I do, let it be
ascribed to the double interest I take in a son of the marquis, and
in whatever interests the good fame and satisfaction of him to
whom I write.

On mature reflection, and on sounding opinions, as far as
opportunity and the nature of the case have permitted, I fully
believe that the President need be under no embarrassment as to
any good offices his heart may lead him to perform towards this
young man. It will not, I am persuaded, displease those in pos-
session of the power of the country from which he comes, and in
ours it will be singularly and generally grateful. I am even con-
vinced, that the personal and political enemies of the President
would be gratified, should his ideas of the policy of the case re-
strain him from that conduct which his friendship to the marquis
and his feelings otherwise would dictate. The youth of this per-
son, joined to the standing of his father, make the way easy.

I even venture to think it possible, that the time is not very
remote, when the marquis will again recover the confidence and
esteem of his country, when perhaps the men in power may be
glad to fortify themselves and their cause with his alliance. This,
however, is supposition, merely to be indulged as a reflection, not
to be counted upon as a fact.

There is another subject upon which I will hazard a few
words. It is, that of Mr. Eandolph. I have seen the intercepted
letter, which I presume led to his resignation. I read it with re-
gret, but without much surprise — for I never had confidence in
Mr. Eandolph, and I thought there were very suspicious appear-
ances about him on the occasion to which the letter particularly
refers.

I perceive, that, rendered desperate himself, he meditates as
much mischief as he can. The letter he calls for, I presume, is
that above alluded to. His object is, if he obtains it, to prejudice
others — if any part is kept back, to derive advantage to his cause
from the idea, that there may be something reserved which would
tend to his exculpation, and to produce suspicion that there is
something which you are interested to keep from the light.

.&. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 49

Though, from the state of public prejudices, I shall probably
for one be a sufferer by the publication ; yet, upon the whole, I
incline to the opinion that it is most advisable the whole should
come before the public. I acknowledge, that I do not express
this opinion without hesitation, and therefore it will deserve, as
it will no doubt engage, your mature reflection ; but such is the
present bias of my judgment. I am the more inclined to the
opinion, as, I presume, that the subject being in part before the
public, the whole letter will finally come out through the quarter
by which it was written, and then it would have additional
weight to produce ill impressions.

With great respect and affectionate attachment, I have the
honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

New-York, [.October 26, 1795.

Sir:

I have noticed a piece in the Aurora, under the signature of
the " Calm Observer" which I think requires explanation, and I
mean to give one with my name. I have written to Mr. Wolcott
for materials from the books of the Treasury.

Should you think it proper to meet the vile insinuation in the
close of it, by furnishing for one year the account of expenditure
of the salary, I will with pleasure add what may be proper on
that point. If there be any such account signed by Mr. Lear, it
may be useful.

I wrote to you some days since, directed to you at Philadel-
phia, chiefly on the subject of young La Fayette. I mention it
merely that you may have knowledge that there is such a letter,
in case it has not yet come to hand.

I touched in it upon a certain intercepted letter. The more I
have reflected, the more I am of opinion that it is advisable the
whole should speedily appear.

With affection and respect,

I have the honor to be, &c.
f 4

50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 38.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, October 26, 1795.

Dear Sir :

I have observed in the "Aurora," a piece under the signa-
ture of " A Calm Observer" which I think merits attention. It
is my design to reply to it, with my name, but for this I wish to
be furnished, as soon as possible, with the account of the President,
and of the appropriations for him, as it stands in the Secretary's
office, the Comptroller's, and the account rendered to Congress,
and also the account of appropriations for Jhis object. Of one
point I am sure — that we never exceeded the appropriations,
though we may have anticipated the service. Add any remarks
you may judge useful. The sooner the better.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, October 27, 1705.

Dear Sir :

I wish the statements, requested in my letter of yesterday,
may contain each particular payment, not aggregates for periods.
It runs in my mind, that once, there being no appropriation, I
procured an informal advance for the President from the bank.
If this is so, let me know the time and particulars. If the ac-
count has been wound up to an exact adjustment, since the period
noticed by the " Calm Observer," it may be useful to carry it
down to that period.

I should like to have a note of other instances of advances
on account of salaries.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 51

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Philadelphia, 29th October, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Two or three days ago, I wrote you a few lines in haste, and
promised one more lengthy when I was more at leisure : — for
this purpose I am now seated.

The letters from young Fayette and Mr. Frestel ; my letter to
Mr. Cabot, and his answer, (all of which are herein inclosed for
your perusal — mine in the rough state it was first drawn, and to
be returned when read,) will give you a full view of what I have
already done in this affair, up to the present moment. I have
unavailingly, owing to accidents, been endeavoring, through in-
direct means, to learn Mr. Adet's sentiments relative to the com-
ing over of this young gentleman. But if you, after the infor-
mation now given, and the reiterated assurance of what I have
expressed in my letter to Mr. Cabot, and which I authorize you
to repeat to him again, in the very strongest terms you can con- ■
ceive, should be of opinion that I ought to go further at this
time, I will do so at all events ; for to be in the place of a father
and friend to him, I am resolved under any circumstances. If,
therefore, as I have just said, you should think that good would
come from it — or even consolation therefrom to young Fayette,
and his tutor, I pray you to send them hither incog., without de-
lay, that some plan may be fixed upon : in settling of which I
pray you to give me your ideas of that which shall appear most
eligible, either by them, or previous to their arrival here.

Other matters which I have to communicate, shall become the
subject of another letter.

I am, ever and affectionately,
Yours,

Geo. Washington.

52 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private and confidential.)

Philadelphia, October 29th, 1795.

My Deak Sir:

A voluminous publication is daily expected from Mr. E .

The paper alluded to in the extract of his letter, of the 8th inst,
and inserted in all the Gazettes, is a letter of my own, to him ;
from which he intends (as far as I can collect from a combination
of circumstances) to prove an inconsistency in my conduct in
ratifying the treaty with Great Britain, without making a rescind-
ing (by the British government) of what is commonly called the
Provision order, equally with the exception of the 12th article,
by the Senate, a condition of that ratification. Intending there-
by to show that my final decision thereon was the result of party
advice ; and that that party was under British influence. It be-
ing a letter of my own which he asked for, I did not hesitate a
moment to furnish him therewith ; and to authorize him to pub-
, lish every private letter I ever wrote, and every word I ever ut-
tered to him, if he thought they would contribute to his vindica-
tion. But the paper he asked for is but a mite of the volume
that is to appear ; for without any previous knowledge of mine
he had compiled every official paper (before this was asked) for
publication, the knowledge of which could subserve the purposes
he has in view ; and why they have not made their appearance
before this, I know not, as it was intimated in the published ex-
tract of his letter to me, that nothing retarded it but the want of
the paper then applied for, which was furnished the day after my
arrival in this city, where, on the 20th inst., I found his letter
after it had gone to Alexandria, and had returned.

I shall now touch another subject as unpleasant as the one I
have just quitted. What am I to do for a Secretary of State?
I ask frankly, and with solicitude ; and shall receive kindly any
sentiments you may express on the occasion. That there may be
no concealment, and that the non-occupancy of the office until
this time may be accounted for, (I tell you in confidence that,)

2Et. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 53

Mr. Paterson, of New Jersey ; Mr. Thomas Johnson, of Mary-
land; Gen. Pinckney, of South Carolina; and Mr. Patrick
Henry, of Virginia ; in the order they are mentioned, have all
been applied to, and refused. Would Mr. King accept it? You
know the objections I have had to the nomination, to office, of any
person from either branch of the Legislature, and you will be at
no loss to perceive, that at the present crisis, another reason
might be adduced against this appointment. But maugre all ob-
jections, if Mr. King would accept, I would look no further.
Can you sound, and let me know, soon, his sentiments on this oc-
casion ? If he should feel disposed to listen to the proposition,
tell him candidly, all that I have done in this matter ; that neither
he nor I may be made uneasy thereafter from the discovery of it ;
he will, I am confident, perceive the ground upon which I have
acted, in making these essays ; and will, I am persuaded, appre-
ciate my motives. If he should decline also, pray learn with
precision from him, what the qualifications of Mr. Potts, the
Senator, are, and be as diffusive as you can with respect to
others, and I will decide on nothing until I hear from you —
pressing as the case is.

To enable you to judge of this matter with more lights still ;
I add, that Mr. Marshall, of Virginia, has declined the office of
Attorney General, and I am pretty certain, would accept of no
other, and I know that Col. Carrington would not come into the
War Department (if a vacancy should happen therein). Mr.
Dexter, it is said, would accept the office of Attorney -General.
No person is yet absolutely fixed on for that office. Mr. Smith,
of South Carolina, some time ago, would have had no objection
to filling a respectable office under the General Government, but
what his views might lead to, or his abilities particularly fit him
for, I am an incompetent judge ; and besides, on the ground of
popularity, his pretensions would, I fear, be small. Mr. Chase,
of Maryland, is, unquestionably, a man of abilities ; and it is
supposed by some that he would accept the appointment of
Attorney-General. Though opposed to the adoption of the Con-
stitution, it is said, he has been a steady friend to the general
government since it is has been in operation. But he is violent-

54 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ly opposed in his own State by a party, and is besides, or to
speak more correctly, has been accused of some impurity in his
conduct. I might add to this catalogue that Col. Innis is among
the number of those who have passed in review ; but his extreme
indolence renders his abilities (great as they are said to be) of
little use. In short, what with the non-acceptance of some, — the
known dereliction of those who are most fit ; the exceptionable
drawbacks from others ; — and a wish (if it were practicable) to
make a geographical distribution of the great offices of the
administration, I find the selection of proper characters an
arduous duty.

The period is approaching, indeed is already come, for select-
ing the proper subjects for my communications to Congress at
the opening of next session — and the manner of treating them
merits more than the consideration of a moment. The crisis,
and the incomplete state in which most of the important affairs
of this country are at present, make the first more difficult, and
the latter more delicate than usual.

The treaty with Great Britain is not yet concluded. After
every consideration, however, I could bestow on it (and after
entertaining very serious doubts of the propriety of doing it on
account of the provision order), it has been ratified by me ; what
has been or will be done by the government of Great Britain,
relative to it, is not now, and probably will not be known by
the meeting of Congress. Yet such perhaps is the state of that
business, as to make communication thereof to the legislature
necessary ; whether in the precise form, or to accompany it with
some expression of my sense of the thing itself, and the manner
in which it has been treated, merits deep reflection. If good
would flow from the latter, by a just and temperate communi-
cation of my ideas to the community at large, through this
medium ; guarded so as not to add fuel to passions prepared
to blaze, and at the same time so expressed as not to excite the
criticisms or animadversions of European powers, I would readi-
ly embrace it. But, I would decidedly, avoid every expression
which could be construed into a dereliction of the powers
of the President with the advice and consent of the Senate to

JE-r. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 55

make treaties, — or into a shrinking from any act of mine relative
to it. — In a word, if a conciliatory plan can be assimilated with
a firm, manly, and dignified conduct in this business, it would be
desirable ; but the latter I will never yield. On this head it
may not be amiss to add, that no official (nor indeed other)
accounts have been received from France of the reception of the
treaty with Great Britain, by the national convention. Perhaps
it is too soon to expect any.

Our negotiations with Spain, as far as accounts have been
received from Mr. Pinckney (soon after his arrival there, but
after a conference with the Duke de la Alcuden on the subject,
before, however, the peace between France and that country
was publicly known), stand upon the same procrastinating,
trifling, undignified (as it respects that government) and insulting
as it relates to this country, ground as they did at the commence-
ment of them. Under circumstances like these, I shall be at a
loss (if nothing more decisive shall arrive between this and the
assembling of Congress) what to say on this subject, especially
as this procrastination and trifling has been accompanied by
encroachments on our territorial rights. There is no doubt of
this fact; but persons have, nevertheless, been sent both by
Gov. Blount and Gen. Wayne, to know by what authority it is
done. The conduct of Spain (after having herself invited this
negotiation, and throughout the whole of its progress) has been
such, that I have, at times, thought it best to express this senti-
ment at once in the speech, and refer to the proceedings. At
other times, to say only that matters are in the same inconclusive
state they have been ; and that if no alteration for the better, or
a conclusion of it, should take place before the session is draw-
ing to a close, that the proceedings will be laid fully before
Congress.

From Algiers, no late accounts have been received ; and little
favorable, it is to be feared, is to be expected from that quarter.

From Morocco, the first communications, after our agent
arrived there, were pleasing ; but the final result, if any has
taken place, is yet unknown — and are more clouded.

Our concerns with the Indians will tell well. I hope, and

56 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

believe, the peace with the "Western Indians will be permanent,
unless renewed difficulties with Great Britain should produce (as
it very likely would do) a change in their conduct. But
whether this matter can be mentioned in the speech with pro-
priety, before it is advised and consented to by the Senate, is
questionable ; and nothing, I am sure, that is so, and is suscepti-
ble of cavil or criticism, will escape the anonymous writers, if it
should go unnoticed elsewhere. It will be denominated by these
gentry a bolster. All the hostile Indians to the southward have
renewed the treaties of amity and friendship with the United
States, and have given the best proof in their power of their
sincerity, to wit, a return of prisoners and property ; and peace
prevails from one end of our frontier to the other. Peace also
had been produced between the Creeks and Chickasaws by the
intervention of this government ; but something untoward and
unknown here has occasioned a renewal of hostilities on the part
of the Creeks.

The military establishment is of sufficient importance to claim
a place in the general communication, at the opening of the
session ; and my opinion is, that circumstanced as things are at
present, and the uncertainty of what they may be next year, it
would be impolitic to reduce it, but whether to express any
opinion thereon, or leave it entirely to their own decision, may
be considered.

Whether a report from the Secretary of the Treasury, rela-
tive to fiscal matters, particularly on the loans of money, and
another from the Secretary of War respecting the frigates,
arsenals, military stores directed to be provided ; and the train
in which the trade with the Indians is, agreeably to the several
acts of Legislature, may not be proper, and to be referred to in
the speech.

Having desired the late Secretary of State to note down every
matter as it occurred, proper either for the speech at the opening
of the session, or for messages afterwards, the inclosed paper
contains every thing I could extract from that office. Aid me,
I pray you, with your sentiments on these points, and such

JEr. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 57

others as may have occurred to you relative to my communica-
tions to Congress.

With affectionate regard,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia. October 29, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I send you abstracts of all the payments to the President to
the present time. It is a fact that more money has been, at times,
advanced than was due for service, but never a dollar for which
there was no appropriation.

The villany of the suggestion against the President has
induced me to reply to the " Calm Observer," on the 26th and
28th. You will see what I have said, and the inclosed papers
will enable you to add any thing which you think proper. I
have not time to-day to ascertain whether any advance by the
bank was ever granted.

You know that the compensation to both Houses of Congress
has been paid in advance frequently.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, October 30th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you yesterday for a statement of the advances and
appropriations for the Department of State.

I am very anxious that Fauchefs whole letter should appear
just as it is. Strange whispers are in circulation of a nature

w

58 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 38.

foreign to truth, and implicating honest men with rascals. Is it
to come out ? Can't you send me a copy ? I will observe any
condition you annex.

The secret journals, and other files of the Department of
State, will disclose the following facts : —

That during the war, a commission to negotiate a treaty of
commerce with Great Britain, was given to Mr. Adams, and
afterwards revoked.

That our commissioners for making peace were instructed to
take no step whatever, without a previous consultation with the
French ministry, though there was, at the time, reason to believe
that France wished us to make peace, or truce, with Great
Britain, without an acknowledgment of our independence ; that
she favored a sacrifice to Spain, of our pretensions to the navi-
gation of the Mississippi, and the relinquishment of a participa-
tion in the fisheries.

It will appear that instructions were actually given to Mr.
Jay, to yield the navigation of the Mississippi to Spain, in con-
sideration of an acknowledgment of our independence. That
Mr. Jay made a proposal accordingly, but clogged with some
condition, or qualification, to bring it back to Congress before a
final conclusion ; and expostulated with Congress against the
measure.

It will appear that this was effected by a southern party, who
would also have excluded the fisheries from being an ultimatum;
in which they were opposed by the north, who equally con-
tended for Mississippi and fisheries.

It will appear that Chancellor Livingston, as Secretary of
State, reported a censure on our commissioners, for breaking
their instructions in the negotiations for peace.

It will appear that shortly after the arrival, in this country,
of the preliminary articles, I made a motion in Congress, to re-
new the commissions to negotiate a treaty of commerce with
Great Britain ; that a committee was appointed to prepare one,
with instructions, of which Mr. Madison was one ; and that the
committee never reported.

Thus stand the facts in my memory.

&t. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 59

It is very desirable, now that a free access to the files of the
Department can give the evidence, to examine them accurately,
noting times, places, circumstances, actors, &c. I want this very
much, for a public use, in my opinion essential.

It would also be useful to have a copy of Mr. Jefferson's letter
to Congress, concerning the transfer of the French debt to private
money-lenders, on which the report of the Board of Treasury is
founded.

Yours, truly, &c.

Nov. 12. This letter, by accident, has lain in my desk since
it was written. I send it still. Bache's paper of the eleventh
has a Valerius, which I think gives an opportunity of over-
setting him. The leading ideas may be, —

Firstly — He discloses the object of the party to place Mr.
Jefferson in contrast with the President.

Secondly — He discloses the further object, an intimate and
close alliance with France, to subject us to the vortex of European
politics, and attributes it to Mr. Jefferson.

Thirdly — He misrepresents totally Mr. Jefferson's returning
from France.

A solid answer to this paper, with facts, would do great good.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, November 2, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I inclose a statement of the President's account quarterly,
which shows that he has not been in advance a quarter's salary at
any time.

You will see that the Aurora denies that the members of
Congress have ever received moneys which were not earned, and
refers to a letter of mine to prove the fact. I never wrote a

60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

letter on the subject, except to the speakers, Muhlenburgh and
Trumbull, in answer to an application from them on this point :
" Whether any advances that had been made to members of the House
of Representatives beyond their real pay had been afterwards accounted
for in their subsequent accounts in a succeeding session t"

To this I answered to the following effect :

" It is certain that the Speakers of the House have in no in-
stance advanced moneys beyond the compensation claimed by
the members as actually due, of course it does not appear to have
been designed in any case that moneys advanced in one session,
should be accounted for by services to be rendered in another."

" In the accounts of the second session of the first Congress,
two errors were discovered of six dollars each, and one other of
eighty-five dollars, which sums were overpaid in consequence of
miscalculations. These sums were credited by the members who
received the moneys in the succeeding session in consequence of
notes which were placed in the pay books by the clerks who
made the examination."

" A few other errors of a trivial nature have at different times
been noted as errors by the clerks, but whether they have been
explained by the members, or accounted for, does not appear
from the pay books. The foregoing three cases are all that I can
find, which fall within the inquiry contained in your letter."

The plain meaning of my letter is, that it was not the practice
to advance during a session, more than was earned in that session,
further I never meant, or examined the books to ascertain. I
shall do it now.

The reference to this letter proves either that Muhlenburgh is
party to this business, or, what is more likely, that my letter was
lodged in the clerk's office, and that Beckly and Randolph are the
authors of this attack.

Nothing to the purpose can be gained from the accounts of
the Secretary of State, but you will find them inclosed. It is not
fit to use them, in my opinion.

N". B. — What I say of my own letter to M. and R, is for your
information. I shall use the affair here.

iEi.38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 61

The clerks have disappointed me, and I cannot send the state-
ment of the Department of State claims till to-morrow.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, November 5th, 1795.

Sir:

I received on the second instant, your two letters of the 29th
of October, with the inclosures. An answer has been delayed, to
ascertain the disposition of Mr. King, who, through the summer,
has resided in the country, and is only occasionally in town. I
am now able to inform you, — he would not accept. Circumstances
of the moment conspire with the disgust which a virtuous and
independent mind feels at placing itself en hut to the foul and
venomous shafts of calumny, which are continually shot by an
odious confederacy against virtue, to give Mr. King a decided
disinclination to the office.

I wish, sir, I could present to you any useful ideas as a sub-
stitute. But the embarrassment is extreme, as to the Secretary
of State. An Attorney-General, I believe, may easily be fixed
upon by a satisfactory choice. Either Mr. Dexter, or Mr. Gore,
would answer. They are both men of undoubted probity. Mr.
Dexter has most natural talent, and is strong in his particular pro-
fession. Mr. Gore, I believe, is equally considered in his pro-
fession, and has more various information. No good man doubts
Mr. Gore's purity, but he has made money by agencies for British
houses in the recovery of debts, &c, and by operations in the
funds, which a certain party object to him. I believe Mr. Dex-
ter is free from every thing of this kind. Mr. King thinks Gore
on the whole preferable. I hesitate between them. Either will,
I think, be a good appointment.

But for a Secretary of State I know not what to say. Smith,
though not of full size, is very respectable for talent, and has
pretty various information. I think he has more real talent than

62 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

the last incumbent of the office. But there are strong objections
to his appointment. I fear he is of an uncomfortable temper :
he is popular with no description of men, from a certain hardness
of character, and he, more than most other men, is considered as
tinctured with prejudices towards the British. In this particu-
lar, his ground is somewhat peculiar. It may suit party views
to say much of other men, but more in this respect is believed with
regard to Smith. I speak merely as to bias and prejudice. There
are things, and important things, for which I would recommend
Smith ; thinking well of his abilities, information, and industry,
and integrity, — but at the present juncture, I believe, his ap-
pointment to the office in question would be unadvisable.

Besides it is very important that he should not now be re-
moved from the House of Kepresentatives.

I have conferred with Mr. King with respect to Mr. Potts ;
we both think well of his principles, and consider him as a man
of good sense. But he is of a cast of character ill suited to such
an appointment, and is not extensive, either as to talents or infor-
mation. It is also a serious question, whether the Senate at this
time ought to be weakened.

Mr. Innis, I fear, is too absolutely lazy for Secretary of
State. The objection would weigh less as Attorney-General.

The following characters, in the narrowness of the probabte
circle, as to willingness, have occurred to me. Judge Pendleton,
of Georgia ; Mr. Desaussure (late Director of the Mint), of South
Carolina; Governor Lee, or Mr. Lee, late Collector of Alex-
andria, of Virginia ; McHenry, of Maryland. / mean the doctor.

Judge Pendleton writes well ; is of respectable abilities, and
a gentleman-like smooth man. If I were sure of his political
views, I should be much disposed to adopt his appointment un-
der the circumstances, but I fear he has been somewhat tainted
with the prejudices of Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison, and I
have afflicting suspicions concerning these men. Desaussure,
I believe, has considerable talents, is of gentleman-like manners,
good views, and only wants sufficient standing, to put him upon
a footing with any attainable man.

Governor Lee has several things for him and several against

Mt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 63

him ; he ought to have a good secretary under him. His brother
I only know enough of to think him worth considering.

McHenry you know. He would give no strength to the ad-
ministration, but he would not disgrace the office ; his views are
good ; perhaps his health, &c, would prevent his accepting.

I do not know Judge Bee ; I have barely thought of him.

In fact, a first-rate character is not attainable. A second-rate
must be taken with good dispositions and barely decent qualifi-
cations. I wish I could throw more light. 'Tis a sad omen for
the government.

By the fifteenth I will carefully attend to the other parts
of your letters. I regret that bad health and a pressure of avo-
cations will permit nothing earlier.

With the most respectful and affectionate attachment,

I have the honor to remain, Sir, &c.

WASHINGTON" TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, November 10th, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Your favor of the 5th has been duly received, but nothing
was said in it of young Fayette. I am willing, as I said in my
last, to receive him under any circumstances, or in any manner
you may conceive best ; and wish to know what that is.

Having since I wrote to you on the 29th ult. received more
agreeable, though not conclusive accounts from abroad, I pray
you to suspend your superstructure until you receive a ground
plan from me, which shall be in a few days, with better, or at
least with more ample materials.

Yours always,

And very affectionately,

Geo. Washington.

64 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, November 15th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

At length I am able to send you the explanation I mentioned
to you. The papers upon which it is founded are returned, that
you may compare, and if necessary, correct. You may, by alter-
ing the body, or by a note, rectify any inaccuracy.

You will observe marks in the margin which will require
particular attention. (A.) Let the distance, if not so now, be
rightly stated. (B.) Insert the most usual sum or sums. I think
it was 10,000 to Senate, 20,000 to House of Eepresentatives. (C.)
If you think it best you may leave out here, and afterwards, all
that concerns the instruction referring the commencement of the
compensation to the 4th of March, 1789. .1 think, in this re-
spect, something will depend on the question whether the Trea-
sury has finally taken its ground, and even then a note at foot,
as after closing the letter, may be considered instead of striking
out. Do as you please on this point. (F.) Examine the calcu-
lation that gives this balance.

I will thank you to have a proof-sheet brought you. You
observe the quarterly statement is to be subjoined. Will it not
be best that the Eegister should sign it?

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private and confidential.)

Philadelphia, Nov. 16th, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

The papers herewith inclosed are so full on the subject of my
former request, that nothing more remains than to refer to them
for every information I can give, as the groundwork of the

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 65

superstructure you are to build. When you are done with them,
be so good as to return the whole to me again, with those sent
before, together with the letters respecting young Fayette — and
the result relative to him.

I would beg the favor of you to run your eye over the letter
from Madam de Segur, and let one of your young men make
some inquiry into the truth of her narrative, and if found just,
to seal and forward my letter to her, safely. The reason why I
give you this trouble, is, that applications of the kind have been
and still are very frequent ; and in more instances than one, im-
positions have been practised on me. If this lady's tale be true,
her case is pitiable ; and I have only to regret that the frequent
calls upon my private purse render it inconvenient for me to do
more for her than the pittance I inclose to her.

With sincere and 'affectionate esteem and regard,
I am ever yours,

George Washington.

P. S. — Be so good as to drop me a single line, merely to say
that this letter and its inclosures have got safely into your hands.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Nov. 16th, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I sent you on Saturday an important translation of Fauchet's
letter. I now send you a copy of the original. You may at
your discretion use the letter, except causing copies to be taken
or suffering it to be printed.

Mr. Eandolph has extensively circulated a letter in which he

attributes his disgrace to the artifices of a "British faction."

This letter is accompanied with an explanatory certificate from

Fauchet, written at Newport, which I have not seen. I am told,

F 5

66 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

however, by persons who have seen it, that it is a weak, evasive
performance, and only makes bad worse. When the affair was
opened to Kandolph, he denied having received money, or having
made any proposition relative to money, except on one occasion,
which was this :

He said that in the summer of 1794, Fauchet told him that
there was a meeting of persons in New- York consisting among others
of Mr. Hammond and Mr. Jaudines, who were conspiring to destroy
him (E.) and Governor Clinton. Being asked what he meant by
destroying him and Governor Clinton, Eandolph answered, to de-
stroy his character as Secretary of State, and Governor Clinton's,
as Governor of New- York. Eandolph said, that he then inquir-
ed whether proof could be got of this conspiracy, and that after
some conversation he suggested to Mr. Fauchet, that as he (F.)
had the resources of the French government at command, he could
obtain the proof. This foolish story could make no impression,
and though Mr. Eandolph promised to reduce it to writing, he
omitted to do so.

There are reports in circulation, I find, which change the
complexion of this first declaration of Eandolph's, and represent
the conspiracy as one to ruin France.

I also suspect that attempts will be made to represent you as
concerned in it, but of this I am not certain. At any rate, the
whole is idle nonsense, and Fauchet's attempt, by a posterior act,
to invalidate the evidence of a confidential letter, will not succeed.
What must have been the footing of those men when they could
familiarly talk about the subversion of the government, and
inviting the French, to aid the insurrection with money.

Pray let me know if the letters are received.

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 67

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, November 17th, 1795.

Dear Sir :

The interest you take in all public measures of importance,
and the peculiar solicitude you must feel at this time of general
agitation, when so many are busy, apparently, to undermine the
government which you so effectually labored to establish, and
have so eminently contributed to maintain, induce me, with that
sincerity which I trust has ever marked my character, and that
frankness which an entire confidence in your judgment and can-
dor inspires, to exhibit to your view the present situation of the
great public offices.

Near three months have elapsed since the office of Secretary
of State became vacant. At that moment, matters of magnitude
respecting the treaty with Great Britain demanded attention, and
the general business of the office could not be suspended. With
the President's approbation, I undertook the conduct of whatever
required the uninterrupted agency of that officer — hoping, how-
ever, to have been relieved long ere this time from the burthen.
The President, I know, took immediate measures to fill the office.
He first tendered it to Judge Patterson, then to Governor John-
son of Maryland, to General Pinckney, and to Mr. King, in
succession ; and by all it has been refused. The three former
nominations the President early communicated to me, but the
last he did not mention till about six days ago ; nor, indeed, till
then, had he spoken of the subject since his last return from Mount
Vernon. He recited these attempts to fill the office of Secretary
of State, and that finally he had, through Colonel Carrington,
made a tender of it to Patrick Henry, who also declined it. In
the event of this repulse, he proposed to Colonel Carrington's
acceptance the Department of "War, under the idea of removing
me to the Department of State. Colonel Carrington chose to re-
main where he is. The President having given this detail, made
me the tender. I declined it, as not possessing the talent so much
to be desired in a Secretary of State, in the propriety and abil-

68 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

ity of whose conduct the dignity as well as the interests of the
nation were so materially involved. On various grounds the
President urged my acceptance; and after the many fruitless en-
deavors he had used to fill the office, I felt reluctant to give him
a denial. I promised to consider of it.

The same day Mr. Wolcott called upon me. I found he had
been consulted. I related what had passed, and he pressed me
to accept the office : but I remained undecided. "We repeatedly
conversed about it afterwards. I still wished the office in abler
hands. Last Friday evening, going to see Mrs. Washington, I
found the President and Mr. Wolcott in the antechamber, the
President's countenance manifestly uneasy. As soon as an oppor-
tunity offered, I spoke to Mr. Wolcott. The President was
anxious for my determination, and again Mr. Wolcott urged me
to take the office. I reflected a few minutes ; the company re-
tired ; and I then made the President the following declaration :

That I wished to keep him no longer in suspense, and that I
would accept the office of Secretary of State ; but as I had no
ambitious views, and fresh embarrassments might arise in his
attempts to fill the Department of War, I would propose, with
submission to his opinion, that things should remain for the pres-
ent as they were ; I would continue my attention to both depart-
ments ; if that of War could be filled to his satisfaction, I would
go to the Department of State ; if a character well adapted to the
latter should present, I would remain where I was. In one word,
to free him from all embarrassment, I would serve in one office
or the other, as the public good should require. The President
answered, " That is very liberal," and desired me to call the next
morning to consider of a successor in the Department of War.

The President had examined his list of officers in the late
war, and selected the most prominent characters, whose names you
will find in the inclosed list. Of these you will see but few to
be recommended for the office, especially to the southward of
Pennsylvania, where, of choice, the President would name one.
With ample military talents, General Lee is conceived to want
others essential to a Secretary of War. Embracing some great
objects, the department comprehends a multitude of details, and

jEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 69

demands economy in its numerous expenditures. This appoint-
ment would doubtless be extremely unpopular. It would be dis-
approved by the enemies of the government without acquiring
the confidence of its friends. These ideas I have already sug-
gested to the President. Expressing his earnest desire to find a
gentleman southward of Pennsylvania, the President remarked,
that it would be much less difficult to choose one from the other
side of this State. But even there the object may perhaps be
found not very easy to accomplish.

The State of New- York has not now one officer on the general
staff of government. Colonel William North, you will see, is on
the President's list. I have thought favorably of his character
and abilities, but am not sufficiently acquainted to form any de-
cisive opinion ; you must know him well : will you have the
goodness to express your mind? Will you consider the whole
list ? Will you indulge me with your sentiments on all the sub-
jects of this letter? One other idea ought perhaps to be taken
into view. The President, beyond all doubt, will, at the close of
his present term, retire for ever from public life. We do not
know who will succeed him. Our internal politics, and our ex-
terior relations, may be deeply affected by the character and
principles of the President, and the Secretary of State.

The tenor of this letter shows that it is perfectly confidential.
The President has no knowledge of it ; he will be impatient to
decide to whom the department of war shall be tendered. I shall
therefore be anxious to receive your answer. I earnestly hope
your health and business will allow you to put it into the mail
of Friday, that it may reach me on Saturday.

With the truest respect.

P. S. — Mr. Wolcott informed me of your wish to see Mr. Fau-
chet's letter. I furnished him with a French copy of it, and
with my translation, to be copied, and forwarded for your revi-
sion and correction. I was sorry to propose this labor for you ;
but the letter is of no small importance. It must soon be pub-
lished, and you are implicated in every page. I therefore wish
the translation may be exact.

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 18th November, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Having no doubt that the petition contained in the inclosed
gazette will make its appearance in the Virginia Assembly ; and
nearly as little of its favorable reception in that body, I resolved
to give you the perusal of it at this moment.

But my principal view in writing to you now is, to request
that you would desire young Fayette and his tutor to proceed to
this place without delay ; having resolved, unless some powerful
reasons can be suggested to the contrary, to take them at once
into my family.

The young gentleman must have experienced some unpleasant
feelings already from being kept at a distance from me, and I feel
as unpleasantly as he can do, from the same cause.
Very sincerely and affectionately,
I am yours,

George Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, November 19, 1795.

Sir:

Your letters of the 16th and 18th instant, with the inclosures,
are received.

An extraordinary pressure of professional business has delayed
my reply on the subject of young La Fayette, in which another
cause co-operated. I wished, without unveiling the motives in-
cidentally, to sound the impressions of other persons of judgment,
who, I know, had been apprised of his being in the country.

The bias of my inclination has been that you should proceed
as your letter of yesterday proposes, and I cannot say it is
changed, though it is weakened. For I find that in other minds,

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 71

and judicious ones, a doubt is entertained, whether at the actual
crisis it would be prudent to give publicity to your protection of
him. It seems to be feared, that the factious might use it as a
weapon to represent you as a favorer of the anti-revolutionists of
France ; and it is inferred that it would be inexpedient to furnish
at this moment any aliment to their slanders.

These ideas have enough of foundation and importance to
make me question my own impressions, which, from natural dis-
position, are in similar cases much to be distrusted.

I shall therefore do nothing more at present than write to La
Fayette and his preceptor to come to New-York, and I shall for-
bear any definitive communication to them till I hear further
from you, after you have reflected on the information I now give.

Should you on reconsideration conclude on yielding to the
doubt as a matter of greater caution — perhaps it will be then left
for you to write young La Fayette a letter, affectionate as your
feelings will naturally lead you to make it, announcing your reso-
lution to be to him a parent and friend, but mentioning that very
peculiar circumstances of the moment impose on you the neces-
sity of deferring the gratification of your wishes for a personal
interview, desiring him at the same time to concert with me a
plan of disposing of himself satisfactorily and advantageously in
the mean time. I shall with pleasure execute any commands
you may give me on the subject. The papers respecting this
matter are herewith returned. I shall without delay attend to
all the others.

Yery respectfully and affectionately,

I have the honor to be, Sir, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Nov. 23d, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

Inclosed are letters for Mr. de La Fayette and his tutor. I
leave them open for your perusal ; and notwithstanding the re-

72 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

quest in my letter of the 18th, I shall cheerfully acquiesce in
any measures respecting them which you (and others with whom
you may be disposed to consult) may deem most eligible.

As there can be no doubt that the feelings of both are alive
to every thing which may have the semblance of neglect or
slight ; and, indeed, expectant as they must have been, (without
adverting perhaps to the impediments,) of an invitation to fly to
me without delay, and distressing and forlorn as the situation of
one of them is, it is necessary that every assurance and consola-
tion should be administered to them. For these reasons, I pray
you to send my letters to them by express, the expense of which
I will repay with thankfulness.

The doubt which you have expressed of the propriety of an
open and avowed conduct in me towards the son of Mr. de La
Fayette, and the subject it might afford to malignancy to misin-
terpret the cause, has so much weight, that I am distrustful of
my own judgment in deciding on this business, lest my feelings
should carry me further than prudence (while I am a public
character) will warrant. It has, however, like many other
things in which I have been involved — two edges, neither of
which can be avoided without falling on the other. On one
side, I may be charged with countenancing those who have been
denounced the enemies of France ; on the other, with not counte-
nancing the son of a man who is dear to America.

When I wrote to you last, I had resolved to take both the
pupil and tutor into my own family, supposing it would be most
agreeable to the young gentleman, and congenial with friend-
ship ; at the same time that it would have given me more com-
mand over him, been more convenient, and less expensive to
myself than to board them out. But now, as I have intimated
before, I confide the matter entirely to your decision, after see-
ing and conversing with them.

Mr. Adet has been indirectly sounded on the coming over of
the family of Fayette generally, but not as to the exact point ;
his answer was, that as France did not make war upon women
and children, he did not suppose that their emigration could ex-
cite any notice. The case, however, might be different, if one of

Mt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 73

them (with his tutor, whose character, conduct, and principles
may, for aught I know to the contrary, be very obnoxious) was
brought into my family, and of course, into the company that
visited it. But as all these things will be taken into considera-
tion by you, I shall not dwell upon them, and only add that,
With esteem, regard, and sincere affection,

I am ever yours,

Geo. Washington.

P. S. I have no doubt but that young Fayette and his tutor
might be boarded at German Town or in the vicinity of this
city, and would be at hand to receive assistance and advice as
occasion might require, although he might not be a resident
under my roof.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, November 28th, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

If indisposition or business of a pressing nature should have
prevented you looking into, and making a digest of the papers
I sent you on the 16th inst., I pray you to return them to me by
the first post after this letter is received.

The meeting of Congress is near at hand — and there is good
reason to expect a punctual attendance of the members. I should
be extremely unwilling, therefore, to be unprepared for this
event ; and shall endeavor to work the materials (no copy of
which I have by me) into the best form I am able, so soon as I
get them, if it is yet to do.

You omitted in your last to inclose the letters of Mr. Fayette,
his tutor, and Mr. Cabot to me, and the copy of mine to the lat-
ter. I beg they may accompany the other papers.

I am always and affectionately yours,

Geo. Washington.

P. S. I had written the foregoing letter to go by young Mr.

74 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

Jay this morning, but he having postponed his journey, I now
add, that your letter of the 26th came to me by the mail of to-day
without the papers, or any mention thereof, which (as I requested,
if you could possibly make it convenient to let me have them by
the 24th) has given me a good deal of alarm, lest they should
have been intrusted to a private hand, who may be dilatory — or
may have met with some other mischance on the way.

Did my letter to young Fayette, under cover to you, get to
hand in time to be presented to him at the interview you had with
him ? My desire of seeing, and assuring him from my own mouth
of my fixed determination to be his friend and supporter, is such,
that I hardly know how to reconcile to my feelings the denial of
permitting him to come hither for a few moments to receive it.
But, supposing that whatsoever you decide will be for the best, I
shall acquiesce therein.

Yours,

G-.W.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, December 1st, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have not been able to ascertain all the points upon which
you requested me to write to you.

In February, 1780, a committee reported a conference with
the minister of France, the substance of which was, — That the
king of Spain wished for an alliance with the United States, but
that it was necessary that the United States should explain their
claims precisely.

That the cabinet of Madrid construed the western rights of
the United States to extend no further westward than the line of
settlement permitted by the British proclamation of 1763.

That the United States had no right to navigate the Missis-
sippi.

That the king of Spain would conquer Florida for himself.

iET. 38.]

CORRESPONDENCE. Y5

And that the lands westward of the line of 1763 were proper
subjects of conquests by Spain, from Great Britain.

The French minister said, that his Most Christian Majesty was
united by ties of blood to the king of Spain, and to the United
States by treaty and friendship, and that he would endeavor to
conciliate the differences of opinion with liberality, &c.

There are many intimations in the French conferences, ex-
horting the United States to moderation in their claims. It was
stated that France might not be able to obtain an implicit acknow-
ledgment of independence, in which case the United States
ought to consider whether a tacit acknowledgment ought not to
be accepted.

There are intimations at several times that Mr. Adams re-
quired positive instructions to prevent him from acting too inflex-
ibly, &c, &c, (this is the idea, not the expression.)

June 11th, 1781. Mr. Adams was instructed thus, — " to make
the most candid and confidential communications upon all sub-
jects to the ministers of our previous ally, the King of France?
to undertake nothing in the negotiations for peace or truce, with-
out their knowledge and concurrence, and ultimately to govern
yourself by their advice and opinion, endeavoring in your whole con-
duct, to make them sensible how much we rely upon his ma-
jesty's influence for effectual support in every thing that may be
necessary for the present security or future prosperity of the
United States of America."

It is worthy of remark, that the draft of instruction was com-
municated to the French minister, and the words scored with a
line underneath, inserted afterwards by way of amendment.

I send Chancellor Livingston's draft of a treaty with Eng-
land; it furnishes good matter for testing the opinions of Cat o
by a nib of authority for himself.

You will judge of the manner of using these hints. Perhaps,
under present circumstances, they ought only to be considered
as information, from which to state facts and reason. You will
hear from me on other points, when I can get time.

I lately requested a corrected translation of a document which
I sent to you. I hope it reached you.

76 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, December 14, 1795.

Dear Sir:

The printer of Mr. Randolph's vindication, advertises that it
will be published next Friday. The translation of Fauchet's let-
ter will be in it. This translation was made by Mr. Taylor, at
Randolph's request; but Mr. Taylor, who desired the use of
mine, told me that he had made but few variations. Now if I
have mistaken the sense in any material passages, it is highly
probable that they will be transferred to Mr. Taylor's translation •
or Mr. Taylor may mistake the meaning of some passages, to
which he will always be liable, from the want of a comprehensive
view of his subject. I have met with such instances in his other
translations ; although he is more familiar with the French than
I am Now it seems to me important, that the first translation
of Fauchet's letter that shall be published, should convey its true
meaning. And therefore I wish earnestly that yours, or the
one you are correcting, may be returned by to-morrow's post (if
not already on its way), that it may be printed in Fenno's paper
before the vindication appears.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Dec. 14th, 1795.

My Dear Sir :

An extraordinary press of occupation has delayed an answer
to your letter on the subject of Mr. R. Though it may come
too late, I comply with your request as soon as I can.

The subject is truly a perplexing one ; my mind has several
times fluctuated. If there was nothing; in the case but his im-
prudent sally upon a certain occasion, I should think the reasons

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 77

for letting him pass would outweigh those for opposing his pas-
sage. But if it be really true that he is sottish, or that his mind
is otherwise deranged, or that he has exposed himself by impro-
per conduct in pecuniary transactions, the bias of my judgment
would be to negative. And as to the fact, I would satisfy my-
self by careful inquiry of persons of character who may have
had an opportunity of knowing.

It is now, and, in certain probable events, will still more be
of infinite consequence that our judiciary should be well com-
posed. Reflection upon this in its various aspects weighs heavily
upon my mind against Mr. E. upon the accounts I have received
of him, and balances very weighty considerations the other
way.

P. S. — From what a Mr. Wadsworth, lately in Philadelphia,
tells me of a conversation between Burr, Baldwin, and Gallatin,
it would seem that the two last gentlemen have made up their
minds to consider the treaty, if ratified by Great Britain, as con-
clusive upon the House of Representatives. I thought it well this
should be known to you, if not before understood from any other
quarter.

KING TO HAMILTON.

16th December, 1795.

I send you Dunlap of this morning. In it you have the
foreign intelligence. Fenno, Dunlap, and others, have errone-
ously stated, that Mr. Warden brought the ratification of Great
Britain. No official dispatch has been received. Rutledge was
negatived yesterday by the Senate. From present appearances,
the address to the President by the House, will pass without a
debate. The draft has been, by agreement in the Committee who
reported it, shaped so as to reserve all points intended to be dis-
cussed relative to the treaty. The words underscored in the

78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

inclosed draft, were offered in the Committee by Mr. Madison,
who agreed to concur in the paragraph, if they were added.
You perceive the object.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 22d Dec, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

Have you seen or heard more of young Fayette, since you
last wrote to me on that subject? Where did he go to? Did
you deliver him the letter I sent, under cover to you for him ?
His case gives me pain, and I do not know how to get relieved
from it. His sensibility, I fear, is hurt, by his not acknowledg-
ing the receipt of my letter to him ; and yet, if considerations of
a higher nature are opposed to a more uncovert countenance, it
must be submitted to. If he wants money, I am ready to fur-
nish it.

Ere this, I presume, you have seen the long promised vindi-
cation, or rather accusation. What do you think of it; and
what notice should be taken of it ? You are fully acquainted
with my sentiments relative to the rival and warring powers of

E and E ; and have heard as strong sentiments from me

with respect to both, as ever he did. His declaration that he was
always opposed to the commercial part of the negotiation, is as im-
pudent and insolent an assertion, as it is false ; if he means more
than that it was contingent, (as the instructions to Mr. Jay de-
clare,) and to apply the knowledge of it to me. But if you have
seen his performance, I shall leave you to judge of it without
any comments of mine.

With much sincerity and truth,

I am always and affectionately,
Yours,

Geo. Washington.

JEt. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 79

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, December 24, 1795.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the .

Young La Fayette is now with me. I had before made an
offer of money in your name, and have repeated it; but the
answer is, that they are not as yet in want, and will have re-
course when needed.

Young La Fayette appears melancholy, and has grown thin.
A letter lately received from his mother, which speaks of some-
thing which she wishes him to mention to you (as I learn from
his preceptor), has quickened his sensibility, and increased his
regret. If I am satisfied that the present state of things is likely
to occasion a durable gloom, endangering the health, and in
some sort the mind of the young man, I shall conclude, on the
strength of former permission, to send him to you for a short
visit ; the rather, as upon repeated reflection, I am not able to
convince myself that there is any real inconvenience in the step,
and as there are certainly delicate opposite sides. But it will be
my endeavor to make him content to remain away.

I have read with care Mr. Eandolph's pamphlet. It does not
surprise me. I consider it as amounting to a confession of guilt;
and I am persuaded this will be the universal opinion. His
attempts against you are viewed by all whom I have seen, as
base. They will certainly fail of their aim, and will do good,
rather than harm, to the public cause and to yourself. It appears
to me that, by you, no notice can be, or ought to be taken of
the publication. It contains its own antidote.

I perceive that Mr. Fauchet, and with him Mr. Eandolph,
have imputed to me the having asked to accompany you on the
western expedition.

The true course of the fact was as follows : — You had men-
tioned, and that early in the affair, as a question for consideration,
the propriety and expediency of your going out with the militia.
But no opinion had been given to you, and you had not an-

80 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38

nounced any determination on the point when my letter to you,
of the 19th of September, was written. That letter does not
ask to accompany you, but to be permitted to go on tiie expedi-
tion. A short time after it was sent, you mentioned to me that
you had concluded to go as far as Carlisle in the first instance,
and to take your ulterior determination according to circum-
stances, and proposed to me to accompany you.

My request was independent of your going or not going.
Its objects were, — 1st. That mentioned in my letter. 2d. An
anxious desire that, by being present, I might have it in my
power, in a case very interesting to my department, as well as
the government generally, to promote, in the event of your not
going on the expedition, a course of conduct the best calculated
to obviate impediments, and secure its object. I had serious
fears of treachery in Governor Mifflin, and I thought that even
Lee might miss the policy of the case in some particulars, &c, &c.

These were the considerations that determined me, and not
the little cunning rjolicy by which Mr. Fauchet supposes me to
have been governed.

I greatly miscalculate if a strong and general current does
not now set in favor of the government, on the question of the
treaty.

With true respect and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, Dec. 26th, 1795.

Dear Sir:

Mr. Cutting has given to me a perusal of his papers, respect-
ing his agency in relieving our seamen from British impress. He
wished my opinion professionally respecting the validity of his
claim, which I declined to give, because it would contradict cer-
tain maxims I have prescribed to myself with regard to public
questions pending while I was part of the administration.

Mr. 38.] CORRESPONDENCE. 81

But there are reasons which induce me to convey to you
privately my view of the subject.

It appears to me clearly established that Mr. Cutting rendered
a very meritorious and an important service to the United States.
Its value is not to be estimated merely by the number of persons
relieved, but by the influence of the exertion upon other cases
— indeed upon our trade generally with the English ports at the
juncture. It is also a service very interesting to the feelings of
all our citizens — and there was certainly much good zeal and
address displayed upon the occasion. It sufficiently appears,
too, that the nature of the case must have involved considerable
expense, and in ways which frequently would not admit of after
authentication.

Under these circumstances I feel a strong impression that it is
of the policy as well as of the justice of the government to go
lengths in giving satisfaction to Mr. Cutting. "lis a case which
calls for liberality, not scrupulous or prying investigation. Mr.
Cutting's own testimony from necessity ought to be received as
to expenditures. This observation, to be sure, has reasonable
limits. But still the case demands that the testimony should be
received with influential effect.

Mr. Dorhman is an example of similar compensation in circum-
stances not unlike. Our own citizen has not an inferior claim.

What has been hitherto done for Mr. Cutting appears to be
manifestly inadequate. If it could be supposed that there was
risk of doing too much, it is of the reputation of the government
that the error should be on that side. Care ought to be taken
that a zealous citizen, who has rendered real service, should not
be out of pocket, and out of reputation, too, by his bargain. I
include a reasonable compensation for service as well as reim-
bursement of expenses.

These ideas will, I am sure, be received as they are intended

82 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

December, 1795.

Sir:

I have the pleasure to send you inclosed two letters, one
from young La Fayette, the other from his preceptor. They ap-
pear reconciled to some further delay.

I take the liberty to inclose a copy of a letter to the Secretary
of State respecting Mr. Cutting. I do not know upon the whole
what sort of a man Mr. Cutting is ; but as to the particular subject
of his claim, I really think it deserves an indulgent consideration,
and that it is expedient and right to favor it to a liberal extent.
Some reflections have made me think it advisable to place the
matter under your eye. Neither the Secretary of State nor Mr.
Cutting will be informed of this.

I wrote you a few lines two or three days ago in answer to
your letter concerning Mr. Eandolph's pamphlet.

Your very respectful and affectionate servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO KING.

January, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

If the newspapers tell truth, it would appear that Massachu-
setts has anticipated New- York. But it is intended by our
friends in the Legislature, to give some pointed discountenance
to the propositions. It was expected that it would have been
done to-day, but by the divergings of some men who seek popu-
larity with both sides, they have gotten into an unnecessary de-
bate upon the proposition in detail, which will lose time ; but in
the result a handsome majority will do right.

Lawrance is hurt, and as far as I see, not without some rea-

Mt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 83

son, from particular circumstances, at being left out of the direc-
tion of the bank. It will be balm to his feelings to be put into
the direction of the office here, and I believe it will be an im-
provement of the direction to do it. I wish you would endeavor
to bring it about. Speak to Bayard of our city and to Wharton
of Philadelphia. This is a suggestion of my own, for Lawrance
rather rides a high horse upon the occasion.

Yours, truly.

DAYTON TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1796.
The short interrogatory respecting our political prospect with
which you conclude your letter, cannot be answered in as few
words. Our session has hitherto been remarkably tranquil, but
we can have no security that it will continue so much longer.
That instrument, the cause of so much pleasure to some, and of
displeasure to others, — that compact, which has already drawn
forth so many pens, and occasioned so much warmth — the treaty
(as ratified), has for some time past been impatiently expected,
and will, when it arrives and is laid before the house, produce,
or I err exceedingly, agitations, collisions, and oppositions, the
extent of which cannot be foreseen or calculated.

Yours, with sincere esteem, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Treasury Department, January 15th, 1796.

Sir:

The question upon the constitutionality of the act imposing-
duties on carriages, will, I expect, be determined by the Supreme
Court the next month. I request you, if possible, to attend the

84 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt.Z9.

trial as counsel for the United States. Mr. Lee, the Attorney-
General, is now here, and will be able to inform you of the time
when the trial will come on, and will concert with you the mea-
sures proper to be pursued.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, January 19, 1796.

Sir:

Mrs. De Neuville, widow of Mr. De Neuville, formerly of
Holland, lately passed through this city. On her way she called
upon me, and announced her intention to make application to
Congress, on the ground of the political services rendered the
United States by her husband, as, in fact, a principal cause of
his pecuniary misfortunes, and expressed a wish that I would lay
the case under your eye. I told her that your situation did not
permit you to take an agency in similar matters, depending be-
fore Congress, and that you was very delicate on such subjects.
She replied, that you might perhaps indirectly promote iier
cause, and that from a letter from you to her husband, she was
encouraged to think you would be disposed to befriend her. I
yielded at last to female importunity, and promised to mention
the matter. I do not know what the case admits of, but, from
papers which she showed me, it would seem that she has pre-
tensions on the kindness of this country.

Our merchants here are becoming very uneasy on the subject
of the French captures and seizures. They are certainly very
perplexing and alarming, and present an evil of a magnitude to
be intolerable, if not shortly remedied. My anxiety to preserve
peace with France is known to you ; and it must be the wish of
every prudent man that no honorable expedient for avoiding a
rupture be omitted. Yet there are bounds to all things. This
country cannot see its trade an absolute prey to France without
resistance. We seem to be where we were with Great Britain,

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 85

when Mr. Jay was sent there ; and I cannot discern but that the
spirit of the policy, then pursued with regard to England, will
be the proper one now in respect to France (viz.) : a solemn and
final appeal to the justice and interest of France ; and if this will
not do, measures of self-defence. Any thing is better than abso-
lute humiliation. France has already gone much further than
Great Britain ever did.

I give vent to my impressions on this subject, though I am
persuaded your own reflections cannot materially vary.
With respectful and affectionate attachment,

I have the honor to remain, Sir,

Your very obedient servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

January 19, 1796.

Sir:

The bearer of this letter is Doctor Bolman, whom you have
heard of, as having made an attempt for the relief of the Marquis
La Fayette, which very nearly succeeded. The circumstances
of this affair, as stated by Doctor Bolman and Mr. Huger, son of
B. Huger, of South Carolina, deceased, who assisted, do real
credit to the prudence, management, and enterprise of the doctor,
and show that he is a man of sense and energy.

He appears to have been induced to think that he attempted
a service which would strongly recommend him to the favor of
this country ; in which idea I have reason to believe that Mr .
Pinekney, among others, encouraged him ; and as a consequence
of it, he hopes for some civil employment under our government.
His expectations of what he may begin with are not high, it
being principally his object to obtain some present provision in
a way which may lead him, if he discovers talents, to something
better. He appears to be a man of education, speaks several
languages, converses sensibly, is of polite manners, and, I dare say,
has the materials of future advancement.

86 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

I have not left him unapprised of the difficulties in his way ;
but he concludes to go to Philadelphia to ascertain what is, or is
not possible, relying at least on a kind reception from you.

He brought me letters from Mr. and Mrs. Church, which
speak handsomely of him. I believe they had a chief agency in
promoting his undertaking.

At his request, I give him this letter to you,

"With respectful and affectionate attachment.

•
P. S. The Doctor is a German.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON".

New-York, February 25, 1796.

Sib:

The evening I had last the pleasure of seeing you, you asked
my opinion whether any and what measures might be taken with
the Senate, with reference to the treaty with Great Britain, in the
event of its not arriving before the adjournment of the legis-
lature.

I mentioned as a hasty thought, that I feared it would be im-
practicable to detain them long in expectation of a treaty not
arrived ; but that it might be advisable, immediately after the
adjournment, to notify another meeting, as little distant as might
be compatible with reasonable time of notice.

On reflection, this opinion appears to me not to be well
founded, as to the last point. I fear the first part will be found
true, and that the body would not upon casualty remain many
days together after the expiration of the session.

In place of the course which I at first mentioned, I submit
the following.

" That the Secretary of State write a letter to each member
present and absent, announcing the expectation of the treaty, and
that, when arrived, the Senate will be convened by a proclama-
tion for a time not exceeding six weeks."

.Et. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 87

The letter of the Secretary of State to be sent by land, and
by water also, to the most remote members, and when the proc-
lamation for convening the Senate issues the same be done ; upon
special expresses for the land conveyance, and having ready some
swift-sailing vessel for the water conveyance.

With these precautions, I think six weeks' notice will be
enough.

The President cannot specially convene the Senate without
announcing that an extraordinary occasion exists. He had when
I left Philadelphia no such advice of the treaty as would warrant
the assertion, and even if he had, until it arrives, there is a pos-
sibility of a miscarriage, which might prevent his having it ready
to lay before the Senate at the time of meeting, if they should
be convened upon contingency. These reflections have led to
the change of opinion.

In great haste I have the honor to be, sir, your affectionate
and obedient servant.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

New-York, March 4th, 1796.

Sir:

In pursuance of a concurrent resolution of the two houses of
the legislature of the third and fourth instant, I desire you, as
a Counsellor at Law, to defend in behalf of this State, a certain
suit brought against Lewis Cornwall by or in behalf of Alexander
Colden for the recovery of a farm sold to the said Lewis by the
commissioners of forfeitures for the Southern District.

You will herewith receive a copy of the said resolution, and
of the petition of Lewis Cornwall which gave occasion to it.
I have the honor to be, Sir, &c.

88 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

MOREIS TO HAMILTON.

London, March 4th, 1706.

My Dear Hamilton:

I have just now written to the President, to communicate
some intelligence lately received from Paris. This I have done in
the abstract, but my correspondent has written to me as follows.

(Here was inserted the letter from .) This letter is dated

Paris, the fifteenth of last month.

You may be sure, by my communicating this to you, that I
have confidence in the sources from whence it is derived. Now,
my dear friend, I have barely stated to the President the inten-
tion as to the new minister. His late declaration, as to the exist-
ing French government, has prevented me from saying a word
to him on a subject, where he has, I think, committed himself.

To you I will declare my conviction, that this government
cannot stand, whether the monarchy be restored or not. The
people in general are averse to it. The adherents to the royal
cause grow daily more numerous. If I knew decidedly the steps
to be taken in aid of them, I could tell you almost with certainty
whether they would be successful, for the state of that country
now presents sufficient data on which to reason soundly.

I need not say to you, that if the French rulers persist in the
measures which are above mentioned, America will probably be
obliged to take part in the war. On a former occasion, when
they talked somewhat highly, I told them that they could certain-
ly force us into the contest ; but as certainly it would be against
them, let the predilections in their favor be ever so great, because
it would be madness in us to risk our commerce against the navy
of the world. That to join them could do them no good, and
must do us much evil. At that time they believed me. What
representations Mr. Monroe may make, I cannot pretend to
divine, and much less the effect of them. Supposing, however,
that you should be driven to make this election, you will natu-
rally weigh not only the naval force, but also the financial
resources of the opposed powers. The noisy folks with you will

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 89

undoubtedly be loud on our obligations to France, and on the
long list of our grievances from England.

As to the former, I think we should always seek to perform
acts of kindness towards those, who, at the bidding of their
Prince, stepped forward to fight our battles. Nor would I ever
permit a frigid reasoning on political motives to damp those
effusions of sentiment, which are as laudable in a nation, as they
are decorous to a private citizen. But would it be kind to sup-
port that power, which now tyrannizes over France, and reduce
her inhabitants to unheard-of misery ? Would it be grateful to
mix with, much less to league with, those whose hands are yet
red with the blood of him who was our real protector ? Would
it be decent ?

As to the conduct of Britain towards us, although I see as
clearly as others the ground, which we have for complaint, and
can readily account for the resentments which have been ex-
cited, yet I give due weight to the causes by which that conduct
was instigated ; and if in some cases I find it unjustifiable, I can-
not consider it as in all cases inexcusable. Provided, therefore,
that our honor be saved, I am so far from thinking, that the
injuries we have endured should become the source of inextin-
guishable hatred and perpetual war, that I would rather seek in
future amity and good offices the fair motive for consigning them
to utter oblivion. I have not, my dear Hamilton, any such view
of our present political machinery, as to judge what may be the
effect of lofty menace. I apprehend that some feeble counsels
will be given. Whether they will be received and pursued, you
best know, and will doubtless act accordingly. What I have to
ask is, that you would put yourself in the way of being con-
sulted. I mean locally, for should you be at a distance, the time
may be too short for communication.

It is possible, after all, that the demand may turn on a single
point, viz., that we shall no longer pretend to claim an exemp-
tion from seizure for those goods of an enemy, which may be
found in our ships. If so, the case is plain and easy. We slide
back to the law of nations, which it is our interest to preserve
unimpeached. Probably we shall be called on for our guaran

90 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

tee of St. Domingo, and here many questions will arise, in the
course of which we shall see, perhaps, some wise and virtuous
slave-masters contending for the propriety of general emancipa-
tion, with all its consequent train of crimes. It appears certain
to me, that the French Directory would not risk high language
to us, if they had not received previous assurances that the peo-
ple would force our government to sacrifice the national interest.
These assurances were, I presume, given, and the present plan
proposed, while victory seemed yet bound to the French stand-
ards, and while you received official assurances of the prosperous
state of their internal affairs. The scene is now not only changed,
but almost reversed, and I presume that the language, if not the
conduct of certain persons, will experience a similar change.

Adieu. I am forced to conclude thus abruptly. You know
I am always and truly yours,

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, March 7, 1796.

Sir:

I found young La Fayette here, and delivered him your letter,
which much relieved him. I fancy you will see him on the first
day of April.

Mr. Livingston's motion in the House of Eepresentatives,
concerning the production of papers, has attracted much atten-
tion. The opinion here of those who think, is, that if the motion
succeeds, it ought not to be complied with. Besides, that in a
matter of such a nature the production of the papers cannot fail
to start new and unpleasant game. It will be fatal to the nego-
tiating power of the government if it is to be a matter of course,
for a call of either House of Congress to bring forth all the com-
munications, however confidential.

It seems to me that something like the following answer
by the President, will be advisable :

zEt.39.] correspondence. 91

" A right in the House of Representatives to demand and
have as matter of course, and without specification of any object,
all communications respecting a negotiation with a foreign power,
cannot be admitted without danger of much inconvenience. A
discretion in the Executive department, how far and when to
comply in such cases, is essential to the due conduct of foreign
negotiations, and is essential to preserve the limits between the
legislative and Executive departments. The present call is alto-
ther indefinite and without any declared purpose. The Execu-
tive has no basis on which to judge of the propriety of a com-
pliance with it ; and cannot, therefore, without forming a very
dangerous precedent, comply.

" It does not occur that the view of the papers asked for can be
relative to any purpose of the competency of the House of
Eepresentatives, but that of an impeachment. In every case of
a foreign treaty, the grounds for an impeachment must primarily
be deduced from the nature of the instrument itself, and from
nothing extrinsic. If at any time a treaty should present such
grounds, and it shall have been so pronounced by the House of
Eepresentatives, and a further inquiry shall be necessary to
ascertain the culpable person, there being then a declared and
ascertained object, the President would attend with due respect
to any application for necessary information."

This is but a hasty and crude outline of what has struck me
as an eligible course. For while a too easy compliance will be
mischievous, a too peremptory and unqualified refusal might be
liable to just criticism.

Most respectfully and affectionately,
I have the honor to be, &c,
Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

92 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

HAMILTON TO JAY.

New-York, March 10th, 1796.

Sir:

I had the honor duly to receive your Excellency's letter of
the 4th instant. I did not immediately answer it, from an indis-
tinct and confused recollection that a state of things existed, in
reference to the opposite party, which did not permit my being
concerned for the State. It now appears that I was not mistaken,
and that I cannot, with propriety, execute your Excellency's de-
sire.

With perfect respect,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your very obedient servant.

To the Governor of New- York.

HAMILTON" TO WILLIAM SMITH.

March 10th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I observe Madison brings the power of the House of Kepre-
sentatives in the case of the treaty to this question. Is the
agency of the House of Representatives on the subject deliberative
or executive •? On the sophism that the Legislature, and each
branch of it, is essentially deliberative, and consequently must have
discretion, will he, I presume, maintain the freedom of the House
to concur or not.

But the sophism is easily refuted. The legislature, and each
branch of it, is deliberative, but with various restrictions, not with
unlimited discretion. All the injunctions and restrictions on the
constitution, for instance, abridge its deliberative faculty, and leave
it quoad hoc, merely executive. Thus the constitution enjoins
that there shall be a fixed allowance for the Judges, which shall
not be diminished. The Legislature cannot, therefore, deliberate

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 93

whether they will make a permanent provision, and when the
allowance is fixed they cannot deliberate whether they will ap-
propriate and pay the money. So far their deliberative faculty
is abridged. The mode of raising and appropriating the money,
only remains matter of deliberation.

So likewise, the constitution says that the President and Sen-
ate shall make treaties, and that these treaties shall be supreme
laws. It is a contradiction to call a thing a law which is not
binding. It follows that by constitutional injunction the House
of Representatives quoad the stipulations of treaties, as in the
case cited, respecting the Judges, are not deliberative, but merely
executive, except as to the means of executing.

Any other doctrine would vest the Legislature, and each
House, with unlimited discretion, and destroy the very idea of a
constitution limiting its discretion. The constitution would at
once vanish.

Besides, the legal power to refuse the execution of a law, is a
power to repeal it. Thus, the House of Representatives must, as
to treaties, concentre in itself the whole legislative jDOwer, and
undertake without "the Senate to repeal a law. For the law is
complete by the action of the President and Senate.

Again. A treaty, which is a contract between nation and
nation, abridges even the legislative discretion of the whole le-
gislature by the moral obligation of keeping its faith ; a fortiori,
that of one branch. In theory, there is no method by which the
obligations of a treaty can be annulled, but by mutual consent
of the contracting parties — by ill faith in one of them, or by a
revolution of government, which is of a nature so to change the
condition of parties, as to render the treaty inapplicable.

94 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, March 16th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I thank you for your letter of the . My opinion on the

resolution when it first appeared was that the President should
answer in substance as follows, viz. :

" That it could not be admitted as a right of course in the
House of Representatives, to call for and have papers in the Ex-
ecutive department, especially those relating to foreign negotia-
tions, which frequently embrace confidential matters. That under
all the circumstances, upon so indefinite a call without any de-
clared specific object, he did not think it proper nor consistent
with what he owed to a due separation of the respective powers
to comply with the call. That if, in the course of the proceed-
ings of the House, a question of their competency should arise,
for which any of the papers in question might be necessary, an
application made on that ground would be considered with proper
respect," &c.

But after what has taken place in the discussion, if it can with
propriety be got in as to form, I think a stand ought to be made
by the President against the usurpation. The following propo-
sitions comprise an obvious ground :

I. The Constitution empowers the President, with the Senate,
to make treaties.

II. A treaty is a perfected compact between two nations, obli-
gatory on both.

III. That cannot be a perfected contract or treaty, to the
validity of which the concurrence of any other power in the State
is constitutionally necessary. Again,

IV. The Constitution says a treaty is a law.

V. A law is an obligatory rule of action, prescribed by the
competent authority. But,

YI. That cannot be such a rule of action, or law, to the valid-
ity of which the assent of any other person is requisite. Again,
VII. The object of the legislative power is to prescribe a rule

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 95

of action for our own nation, which includes foreigners coming
among us.

Vm. The object of the treaty power is, by agreement, to settle
a rule of action between two nations, binding on both.

IX. These objects are essentially different, and in a consti-
tutional sense, cannot interfere.

X. The treaty power binding the will of the nation, must,
within its constitutional limits, be paramount to the legislative
power, which is that will ; or, at least, the last law being a treaty,
must repeal an antecedent contrary law. And,

XI. If the legislative power is competent to repeal this law by
a subsequent law, this must be the whole legislative power, by a
solemn act in the forms of the constitution, not one branch of the
legislative power by disobeying the law.

XII. The foregoing construction reconciles the two powers,
and assigns them distinguishable spheres of action ; while

XIII. The other construction, that claiming that a right of
assent is a sanction for the House of Representatives, destroys the
treaty, making powerless and negative two propositions in the
Constitution, to ivit: 1. That the President, with the Senate, are
competent to make treaties. 2. That a treaty is a law.

On these grounds, with the President's name, a bulwark not
to be shaken is erected. The propositions, in my opinion, amount
to irresistible demonstration.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, March 24th, 1796.

Sir:

I had the honor to receive yesterday your letter of the 22d.
The course you suggest has some obvious advantages, and merits
careful consideration. I am not, however, without fear that
there are things in the instructions to Mr. Jay — which good
policy, considering the matter externally as well as internally^

96 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

would render it inexpedient to communicate. This I shall as-
certain to-day. A middle course is under consideration — that of
not communicating the papers to the House, but of declaring
that the Secretary of State is directed to permit them to be read
by the members individually. But this is liable to a great part of
the objections which militate against a full public disclosure. I
throw it out, however, here, that you may be thinking of it, if it
has not before occurred. In the course of this day, I shall
endeavor to concentre my ideas, and prepare something, the
premises of which may be in any event proper, admitting of the
conclusion being modified and adapted to your eventual deter-
mination.

Eespectfully and affectionately, Sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

March 26th, 1799.

Sir:

I perceive by the newspaper that the resolution has been
carried. I have not been idle as far as my situation would per-
mit, but it will not be in my power, as I had hoped, to send you
what I am preparing by this day's post ; the next will carry it.
It does not, however, appear necessary that the executive should
be in a hurry.

The final result in my mind, for reasons I shall submit in my
next, is, that the papers ought all to be refused. I am persuaded
the communication of the instructions in particular would do
harm to the President and to the government.

Eespectfully and affectionately, &c.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 07

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

March 28th, 1796.

Sir:

I am mortified at not being able to send you by this post
a certain draft. But the opinion that reasons ought to be
given, and pretty fully, has extended it to considerable length,
and a desire to make it accurate as to idea and expression, keeps
it still upon the anvil. But it is so far prepared that I can
assure it by to-morrow's post. Delay is always unpleasant. But
the case is delicate and important enough to justify it.

I mentioned as my opinion, that the instruction to Mr. Jay,
if published, would do harm. The truth, unfortunately, is, that
it is in general a crude mass, which will do no credit to the ad-
ministration. This was my impression of it at the time ; but
the delicacy of attempting too much reformation in the work of
another head of department, the hurry of the moment, and a
great confidence in the person to be sent, prevented my attempt-
ing; that reformation.

There are several particular points in it which would have
a very ill effect to be published.

I. There is a part which seems to admit the idea that an
adjustment might be made respecting the spoliations which
should leave that matter finally to the ordinary course of the
British courts. This is obscurely and ambiguously expressed,
but the least color for such a construction would give occasion
for infinite clamor.

II. The negotiator is expressly instructed to accede to the
entire abolition of alienism as to inheritances of land. You have
seen what clamor has been made about the moderate modifica-
tion of this idea in the treaty, and can thence judge what a load
would fall on this part of the instructions.

III. He is instructed to enter into an article against the em-
ployment of privateers in war. This is manifestly against the
policy of a country which has no navy in a treaty with a country
which has a large navy. For it is chiefly by privateers that we

f 7

98 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

could annoy the trade of Great Britain. Some would consider
this as a philosophic whim ; others as an intentional sacrifice of
the interests of this country to Great Britain.

IV. There are several parts which hold up the disreputable
and disorganizing idea of not being able to restrain our oivn
citizens.

V. There are parts which, though proper to our own agent,
the publication of which would be a violation of decorum to-
wards Great Britain, after an amicable termination of the affair,
and offensive, because contrary to the rules of friendly and re-
spectful procedure.

YI. The instructions have too little point (in the spirit of the
framer, who was in the habit of saying much and saying little),
and would be censured as altogether deficient in firmness and
spirit.

On the whole, I have no doubt that the publication of these
instructions would do harm to the executive, and to the character
and interest of the government.

The draft will be so prepared as to admit of this conclusion.

If the President concludes to send papers, they ought only
to be the commissions, and Mr. Jay's correspondence, saying, that
these are all that it appears to him for the public interest to send.

But he may be then prepared for as much clamor as if he
sent none. It would be said that what was done showed that the
principle had not been the obstacle — and that the instructions
were withheld because they would not bear the light. Or, at
most, only that part of the instructions should go which begins
at these words, " 4. This enumeration presents, generally, the
objects which it is desirable to comprise in a commercial treaty,
&c," to the end of the instructions.

But after the fullest reflection I have been able to give the
subject (though I perceive serious degrees of inconveniencies in
the course), I entertain a final opinion that it will be best, after
the usurpation attempted by the House of Eepresentatives, to
send none, and to resist in totality.

Affectionately and respectfully, &c.

At. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 99

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, 31st March, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I do not know how to thank you sufficiently, for the trouble
you have taken to dilate on the request of the House of Kepre-
sentatives for the papers relative to the British treaty ; or how
to apologize for the trouble (much greater than I had any idea of
giving) which you have taken to show the impropriety of that
request.

From the first moment, and from the fullest conviction in my
own mind, I had resolved to resist the principle which was evi-
dently intended to be established by the call of the House of Eep-
resentatives ; and only deliberated on the manner in which this
could be done, with the least bad consequences.

To effect this, three modes presented themselves to me — 1st,
a denial of the papers in Mo, assigning concise, but cogent rea-
sons for the denial ; 2d, to grant them in whole ; or, 3d, in part ;
accompanied with a pointed protest against the right of the House
to control treaties, or to call for papers without specifying their
object; and against the compliance being drawn into precedent.

I had as little hesitation in deciding that the first was the
most tenable ground, but from the peculiar circumstances of this
case, it merited consideration, if the principle could be saved,
whether facility in the provisions might not result from a com-
pliance. An attentive examination, however, of the papers and
the subject, soon convinced me that to furnish all the papers
would be highly improper ; and that a partial delivery of them
would leave the door open for as much calumny as the entire
refusal — perhaps more so — as it might, and I have no doubt
would be said, that all such as were essential to the purposes of
the House were withheld.

Under these impressions I proceeded, with the Heads of De-
partments, and the Attorney-General, to collect materials, and to
prepare an answer, subject, however, to alteration and revision

100 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

according to circumstances. This answer was ready on Monday,
and proposed to be sent in on Tuesday, but it was delayed until
I should receive what was expected ; not doing it definitely on
that day, the delivery of my answer was further postponed till
the next, notwithstanding the anxious solicitude which was visi-
ble in all quarters to learn the result of Executive decision.

Finding that the draft I had prepared embraced most if not
all the principles which were detailed in the paper I received
yesterday, though not the reasonings — that it would take con-
siderable time to copy the latter — and above all, having under-
stood, that if the papers were refused, a fresh demand, with stric-
tures, might be expected, I sent in the answer which was ready,
reserving the other as a source for reasoning, if my information
proves true.

I could not be satisfied without giving you this concise ac-
count of the business — to express again my sincere thanks for the
pains you have been at to investigate the subject.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, April 2d, 1796.

Sir:

The express is this morning gone off with your letter to young
La Fayette. I foresaw when in Philadelphia a certain machina-
tion on the subject.

I rejoice at the decision you have come to in regard to the
papers. Whatever may happen, it is right in itself, will elevate
the character of the President, and inspire confidence abroad.
The contrary would have encouraged a spirit of usurpation, the
bounds of which could not be foreseen.

If there is time, I should like to have back the paper lately
sent to correct, prune, guard, and strengthen — I have no copy.
But of the expediency of this the circumstances on the spot will
decide. There is great fitness in the message to the House. I

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 101

see only one point the least vulnerable, the too direct notice of
the debate in the House — which may be attacked as contrary to

parliamentary usage. I hear the criticism here among the L s.

But this cannot be very material.

Most respectfully and affectionately,

I have the honor to be, &c.

HAMILTON TO KING.

April 2d, 1796.

Thank you for yours of yesterday. I have no copy of the
paper sent : the greatest part went in the original draft, though
considerably reformed according to joint ideas, and somewhat
strengthened by new thoughts. A letter I have received tells me
that it came to hand after the ground which was acted upon had
been formally considered and taken in council, and that it is re-
ferred for future use in the event of an expected criticism of the
message.

I have asked for it conditionally, to prune, correct, &c. If I
get it you shall have a copy. But you must take care that there
is no crossing of path.

EAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

April 8th, 1796.

Sir:

I have done something, but not what I intended. The sitting
of two courts, and my professional engagements there, prevent
the execution of my plan. I no longer withhold the paper, lest
circumstances should render it of any use.

Yours affectionately and respectfully,

A. H.

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, April 9th, 1796.

Sir:

It gives me great pleasure to have the opportunity of an-
nouncing to you one whom I know to be interesting to you as a
bearer of this — Mr. Motier La Fayette. I allow myself to share,
by anticipation, the satisfaction which the meeting will afford to
all the parties — the more, as I am persuaded that time will con-
firm the favorable representation I have made of the person, and
justify the interest you take in him.

I have pleasure, also, in presenting to you Mr. Frestel, who
accompanies him, and who more and more convinces me, that he
is entirely worthy of the charge reposed in him, and every way
entitled to esteem.

With the most respectful and affectionate attachment, I have
the honor to be, Sir,

Your very obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

KING TO HAMILTON.

Wednesday, April 20th, 1796.
The petitions of the merchants and others will be presented
to-day, and, it is said, they have been signed by almost every
merchant and trader in the city. — Pettit, Barclay, and some few
others are exceptions. — A counter petition has been very in-
dustriously carried through the city and its suburbs, and though
very few merchants, traders, or principal mechanics have signed
it, it will show a long catalogue of names. The persons engaged
in this service have been very successful in the Northern and
Southern liberties, and taking their stands upon the wharves

jEt.39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 103

they have collected the names of sailors, and others, as well
foreigners as citizens. Baltimore has become very zealous, and
I fear from their displeasure at the conduct of Col. Smith, they
have hazarded his vote and influence whatever it may be in the
question of provision for the treaty. They have drawn up a
paper, which is signed by almost the whole body of merchants,
in which they request and instruct him to promote by the pro-
per provisions the execution of the treaty. His inclination was
in favor of a provision, but I am apprehensive his pride will be
so wounded by this instruction that he may vote against his
judgment to prove his independence. We shall probably re-
ceive from the House to-day a bill, making an appropriation for
defraying the expenses of carrying into effect the Spanish treaty.
We shall amend it by adding a provision for the British
treaty, — if the House disagree, we shall adhere, and they will
lose the bill by refusing our amendment, — we shall then add to
the Algerine bill an amendment providing for the British and
Spanish treaties. The House will also decide the fate of this
bill. We shall then add to the bill providing for the Indian
treaty an amendment providing for the British, the Spanish,
and the Algerine treaties. The House will also decide the fate
of this bill. We shall then oifer them a bill providing for all
the treaties. This likewise they may reject, but my belief is,
that the opposition will give way before we have gone through
this course.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, April 15th, 1796.

My Dear Sir :

A letter by yesterday's post, from our friend Ames, inform-
ed me that the majority (57 concurring) had resolved in a private
meeting to refuse appropriation for the treaty. A most import-
ant crisis ensues. Great evils may result, unless good men play

104 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

their card well and with promptitude and decision. For we
must seize and carry along with us the public opinion, and loss
of time may be loss of every thing.

To me our true plan appears to be the following (I pre-
suppose that a certain communication has been made) :

1st. The President ought, immediately after the House has
taken the ground of refusal, to send them a solemn protest. This
protest ought to contain reasons in detail against the claim of the
House in point of constitutional right, and ought to suggest
summarily, but with solemnity and energy, the danger to the
interest and peace of the country from the measures of the
House, the certainty of a deep wound to our character with
foreign nations, and essential destruction of their confidence in
the government, concluding with an intimation that in such a
state of things he must experience extreme embarrassment in
proceeding in any pending or 'future negotiations which the
affairs of the United States may require, inasmuch as he cannot
look for due confidence from others, nor give them the requisite
expectation that stipulations will be fulfilled on our part.

A copy of this protest to be sent to the Senate for their in-
formation. The Senate by resolutions to express strongly their
approbation of his principles, to assure him of their firm support,
and to advise him to proceed in the execution of the treaty on
his part in the confidence that he will derive from the virtue and
good sense of the people, constitutionally exerted, eventual and
effectual support, and may still be the instrument of preserving
the Constitution, the peace, and the honor of the nation.

Then the merchants to meet in the cities, and second by their
resolutions the measures of the President and Senate, further ad-
dressing their fellow citizens to co-operate with them. Petitions
afterwards to be handed throughout the United States.

The Senate to hold fast, and consent to no adjournment till
the expiration of the term of service of the present House, unless
provision made.

The President to cause a confidential communication to be
made to the British minister stating candidly what has happened,
his regrets, his adherence nevertheless to the treaty, his resolu-

^Et. 39.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 105

tion to persist in the execution, as far as depends on the Execu-
tive, and his hope that the faith of the country will be eventually
preserved.

I prefer that measures should begin with a protest of the
President, as it will be in itself proper, and there will be more
chance of success if the contest appears to be with him and the
Senate auxiliaries, than in the reverse.

But in all this business, celerity, decision, and an imposing-
attitude, is indispensable. The glory of the President, the safety
of the Constitution, the greatest interests, depend upon it.
Nothing will be wanting here. I do not write to the President
on the subject.

An idea has come from Cooper, of an intention in our friends
in the House of Kepresentatives to resist the execution of the
other treaties, the Spanish and Algerine, unless coupled with the
British. But this will be altogether wrong and impolitic. The
misconduct of the. other party cannot justify in us an imitation of
their principles. 'Tis best, I think, that the first course should be
given to the other treaties. Or at most, if a, feint of opposition is
deemed advisable, it ought to be left to the Senate by postpone-
ment, &c. But even this is very delicate and very questionable.

Let us be right, because to do right is intrinsically proper, and
I verily believe it is the best means of securing final success.
Let our adversaries have the whole glory of sacrificing the inter-
ests of the nation.

Yours, affectionately.

pt s# — if the treaty is not executed, the President will be
called upon, by regard to his character and the public good, to
keep Ms post till another House of Kepresentatives has pronounced.

106 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, April 18, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your letter received to-day. Our merchants
here are not less alarmed than those of Philadelphia, and will do
all they can. All the insurance people meet to-day. The
merchants and traders will meet to-morrow, or the next day.
A petition will be prepared, and circulated among the other
citizens.

I regret that a certain communication was not made. In-
deed, I think that the Executive will be hereafter blamed for
keeping back the fact in so critical a posture of things.

Yours truly, &c.

HAMILTON TO KING.

April 20, 1796.

Dear Sir:

Yesterday's post brought me a letter from you, which gave
me pleasure. The papers will apprise you of the proceedings of
the merchants and traders here on yesterday. There is among
them, also, " unexampled unanimity," and, as far as I can judge,
the current is in our favor throughout the city. Persons to-day
are going through the different wards.

Yours sincerely, &c.

P. S. Our friends in the House will do well to gain time.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 107

HAMILTON" TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, April 20th, 1790.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 18th instant. The money
paid me for you shall be placed to your credit in the office of
discount and deposit, as you desire.

The British ministry are as great fools, or as great rascals, as
our Jacobins, else our commerce would not continue to be dis-
tressed as it is by their cruisers ; nor would the Executive be
embarrassed, as it now is, by the new proposition.

Not knowing the precise form of that proposition, I cannot
have an opinion what is right on the part of the Executive. But
if I understand it, it ought to be sufficient for the Executive to
declare that the article in the treaty with the Indians can never
operate, nor will be permitted to operate, in contravention of
the treaty with Great Britain. It relates to a right reserved for
our benefit, which we can, and will, waive ; and, being in a treaty
of subsequent date, it naturally gives way to another of prior
date, with which it is consistent. The Executive ought to be
careful about admitting the propriety of a new condition, though
it ought to be ready to give all due satisfaction. It should not
even shun a new explanatory article, if reasonable in itself, but
should agree to it upon the strength of its own reasonableness,
not as a new condition foreign to the treaty. This affair requires
great attention ; but, as I said, I do not know enough to give
advice worth much.

Yet the government must take care not to appear pusillani-
mous. I hope a very serious remonstrance has long since gone
against the wanton impressment of our seamen. It will be an
error to be too tame with this overbearing cabinet.

Our city is in motion against the plan of the majority in the
House of Eepresentatives, with regard to the treaty. The cur-
rent appears to be strong with us. The papers will tell you the
measures in contemplation.

But I was sorry to learn that a proper qualified communica-

108 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

tion was not made to the House of Kepresentatives, of the late
communication from the British agent. The Executive may
hereafter be blamed for withholding so important a fact ; yet,
not knowing the whole affair, I cannot judge well on this point,
more than on the other.

HAMILTON TO KING.

April 23d, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I have received your two letters, and shall this day attend to
the one which requires it. I see, however, no objection to it
as it stands, and I do not now perceive how the further object
you aim at could be accomplished in the manner you seem to
desire.

I have written to Ames this day concerning the course of
things in our city. He will communicate to you, as I have not
time to repeat. We are decidedly well. But it is intended to-
day to continue the petition in circulation, and to-morrow it will
be sent. I have thought it advisable to publish an extract from
your letter without naming you.

Yours truly, &c.

MARSHALL TO HAMILTON.

Richmond, April 25th, 1796.

Yours of the 14th only reached me by the mail of this even-
ing. I had been informed of the temper of the House of Kepre-
sentatives, and we had promptly taken such measures as appeared
to us fitted to the occasion. We could not venture an expres-
sion of the public mind under the violent prejudices with which

iET. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 109

it has been impressed, so long as a hope remained, that the
House of Representatives might ultimately consult the interest
or honor of the nation. But now, when all hope of this has van-
ished, it was deemed advisable to make the experiment, how-
ever hazardous it might be. A meeting was called, which was
more numerous than I have ever seen at this place ; and after a
very ardent and zealous discussion which consumed the day, a
decided majority declared in favor of a resolution that the well-
fare and honor of the nation required us to give full effect to the
treaty negotiated with Britain. This resolution, with a petition
drawn by an original opponent of the treaty, will be forwarded
by the next post to Congress. The subject will probably be
taken up in every county in the State, or at any rate in very
many of them. It is probable that a majority of the counties will
avow sentiments opposed to ours, but the division of the State
will appear to be much more considerable than has been stated.
In some of the districts there will certainly be a majority who
will concur with us, and that perhaps may have some effect. As
man is a gregarious animal, we shall certainly derive much ai(
from declarations in support of the constitution and of appro-
priations, if such can be obtained from our sister States. The
ground we take here is very much that of Mr. Hillhouse. We ad-
mit the discretionary constitutional power of the representatives
on the subject of appropriations, but contend that the treaty is as
completely a valid and obligatory contract when negotiated by the
President and ratified by him, with the assent and advice of the
Senate, as if sanctioned by the House of Representatives also under
a constitution requiring such sanction. I think it would be very
difficult, perhaps impossible, to engage Mr. H. on the right side
of this question. If you have any communications which might
promote a concurrence of action, we shall be proud to receive
them.

With much respect and esteem,

From, dear Sir, your obedient servant,

John- Marshall.

110 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 39.

"WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, April 29. 1796.

Dear Sir :

I have received jour favor of the 20th. The affair with
Bond stands thus, and is truly attended with some perplexing
circumstances.

The communication states, that provisional orders have been
given for the surrender of the posts whenever the House of Eep-
resentatives shall have indicated an intention to give effect to the
treaty, and when an article shall have been negotiated, explana-
tory of the sense of the two nations ; that the 8th article of our
treaty with the Indians shall not abrogate from the rights stipu-
lated in favor of British subjects by the 3d article of the treaty
with Great Britain.

The style of the memorial is respectful, and the doubtful
article in the Indian treaty is attributed to want of information
on our part of the stipulation in the British treaty.

I have thought that a declaration by the Executive, that we
admit the doctrine of the Law of Nations, ought to be sufficient,
and that insisting upon an explanatory article was pressing a
point rather unreasonably against us. As however Mr. Bond
says he is instructed to insist on an article, and as the terms can
be adjusted so as completely to save the national honor, perhaps
we are bound to consent. I feel, however, that the Executive
ought not to have been embarrassed at present.

There being two points to be settled before we obtain the
posts, one concerning the legislature, and the other the Senate,
it has appeared to me, that a partial communication would be
improper, and that a general one would be inexpedient. A mes-
sage to the House would moreover unnecessarily stimulate the
passions of the opposition. A resolution for giving effect to the
treaty is under consideration ; the presumption ought to be that
they will do their duty. On this ground the Senate have for-
borne to connect a provision for the British treaty, with the bills

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. Ill

which, have been sent up respecting the other treaties. The
principles which have governed the Senate, if correct, require the
Executive to forbear his interference.

Some difficulty may be apprehended in obtaining a ratifica-
tion of the explanatory article in the present state of the Senate,
but it will be surmounted.

I think the government will succeed in the present contest,
but it remains doubtful whether order can be long preserved.
Unless a radical change of opinion can be effected in the
Southern States, the existing establishments will not last eighteen
months. The influence of Messrs. Gallatin, Madison and Jeffer-
son must be diminished, or the public affairs will be t to
a stand. No proper attention is paid to the cui 3S of
the government by the House. Every thing is in the Lands of
the Committees ; nothing is understood, and few matters of im-
portance in a train for being completed. Before the treaty ques-
tion commenced, the treaty furnished a pretence for delay ; the
length of the session, and the languor of the members, will furnish
another pretext, after that question shall have been determined.

Mr. Patten, the postmaster, communicated to me yesterday a
singular circumstance. Some time since letters were delivered
into his office, for Eobert Cowper, and a Doctor Graham, of Suf-
folk, in Virginia. By some means, Mr. Patten discovered that
these letters had been brought from Virginia, and this he says
induced him to suspect some mischief, and to write to Virginia.
I have seen the answer which he (P.) received from Eobert Cow-
per, in which he says that the letter to him was signed with your
name — that to Doctor Graham was signed with the name of Mr.
Van Allen, of Congress.

It seems that the letters were forgeries, and contain some-
thing which, if true, might injure yours and Mr. Van Allen's
characters. This is doubtless some Jacobin trick.

I shall try to detect it, and give you information ; at present
I have no particulars.

112 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

KING TO HAMILTON.

Sunday, 1st May, 1796.

In committee of the whole on Friday, it was resolved by the
casting vote of Muhlenburgh, the chairman, to make provision
by law for carrying the treaty with England into effect ; yester-
day the resolution of the committee of the whole was passed in
the House by 51 against 48. A projDosition to prefix to the
resolution a preamble declaring the treaty to be injurious to the
interests of the United States, and assigning the short duration of
its temporary articles as a reason why it should be permitted to
go into effect, was negatived by 50 against 49, and the resolution
was immediately, and without division, referred to a committee,
with instructions to prepare and report a bill or bills in confor-
mity with the resolution. The failure of the party in their
intention to denounce the treaty, I am fearful, will not discourage
them in a second attempt. A majority of five or six (if I am
not mistaken) would join in a vote of condemnation, but in the
shape in which the proposition was offered, some of the most in-
veterate opponents of the treaty voted in the negative, because,
they said, if they voted for the preamble, it would be then proper
for them to vote for the resolution, which they were determined
not to do. Though from the stage in which the business now is,
I hope the attempt will not be made ; yet, if an independent
resolution should be offered, declaring the treaty to be injurious,
&c, I am apprehensive it would be adopted. This, however,
would not defeat the provision for the execution of the treaty —
51 votes in the affirmative ; the Speaker's vote with that of Mr.
Freeman, of Massachusetts, both of whom are in favor of the
provisions, make 53 affirmative voices, a majority of the whole
number of representatives.

Yours, &c.

Mt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 113

KING TO HAMILTON.

Monday, 2d May, 1796.

The inclosed letter will give you all the information that we
have on the subject to which it relates. It seems problematical
whether P. H. can be induced to agree in the arrangement.
Some circumstances of which I have lately heard incline me to
believe that he will not. Our session will close by the first of
June, provided no further impediment is thrown in the way of the
provision for giving efficacy to the treaty with England — and it is
much to be wished that a definitive arrangement should be made
before we separate.

Mr. Pinckney has asked leave to return home, and waits only
for permission. To his former stock of popularity he will now
add the good- will of those who have been peculiarly gratified
with the Spanish treaty. Should we concur in him, will he not
receive as great, perhaps greater, southern and western support
than any other man ?

You must know that I am not a little tired with this separa-
tion from my family and drudging in the Senate. The work now
before us being finished, I think I am entitled to a dismission.
It would be agreeable to me to spend a few years abroad, and if
I do not misconceive the interests of the country, I think I could
render some service to the public at the present period in Eng-
land. Will you converse with Mr. Jay on this subject — I can
through no other channel communicate with the Executive — nor
do I desire that either of you should suggest the measure, unless
you both agree in its propriety and utility. Farewell.

Yours very sincerely.

114 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

HAMILTON TO KING.

May 4, 1796.

My Dear Sir :

Since my last I have received two or three letters from you.
The late turn of the treaty question makes us all very happy. I
hope no future embarrassment will arise.

I am entirely of opinion that, Patrick Henry declining, Mr.
Pinckney ought to be our man. It is even an idea of which I
am fond in various lights. Indeed, on latter reflection, I rather
wish to be rid of Patrick Henry, that we may be at full liberty
to take up Pinckney.

In the event of Pinckney's return to this country, I am of
opinion, all circumstances considered, it is expedient you should
replace him. I hope no great question will in a short period
agitate our councils, and I am sure you will do much good on
the scene in question. I have called on Jay, but happened not
to find him disengaged. I shall quickly see him, and shall, with
great pleasure, do every thing requisite on my part.

We believe confidently our election in the city has succeeded ;
the other party, however, also claims success. Our Senator ticket
seems admitted on both sides to have prevailed, and all accounts
assure us of great success throughout the State. The vile affair
of whipping Burke and McCredy made our election, in the view
of the common people, a question between the rich and the poor.
You will easily conceive how much this must have embarrassed
and jeoparded.

Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO KING.

May 5th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

After reading, seal and hand in the inclosed. If such things
are to be, you cannot leave the Senate. Jay is against it, at all

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 115

events till the European storm is over. We must all think well
of this business. Adieu.

Yours affectionately, &c.

The inclosed letter was for the President.

R K.

STEVENS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 7, 1796.

My Dear Friend :

Almost ever since your departure I have been confined to my
chamber, by a severe and obstinate catarrh. Though much bet-
ter, at present my health is still so much deranged that I dread
encountering the warmth of the summer months in this city. I
have, therefore, determined to take a voyage to sea, and I shall
visit St. Croix before my return. Mrs. Stevens has concluded to
accompany me with our little ones. Our absence will be but
short. If no unexpected eveut takes place, we shall certainly
return by the month of September. I could not, however, leave
America without assuring you of our best wishes for the health
and prosperity of yourself and family. May every blessing
attend you. Mrs. S. unites with me in affectionate remembrance
of Mrs. Hamilton.

I remain, with unfeigned attachment,
My dear Sir,

Your sincere friend,

Edward Stevens.

116 HAMILTON'S WORKS

[.-Et. 39.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private and confidential.)

Philadelphia, 8th May, 1796.

My Dear Sie:

Your note of the 5th instant, accompanying the information

given to you by G M , on the 4th of March, came safe

on Friday. The letter he refers to as having been written to me
is not yet received ; but others from Mr. Monroe, of similar com-
plexion, and almost of as imperious a tone from that govern-
ment, have got to hand.

That justice and policy should dictate the measures with
which we are threatened, is not to be conceived ; and one would
think that even folly and madness, on their part, would hardly go
such lengths, without supposing a stimulus of a more serious nature
than the town meetings and the particular resolutions which ap-
peared in the course of last summer and autumn, on ours. Yet,
as it seems to be the era of strange vicissitudes and unaccount-
able transactions — attended with a sort of irrresistible fatality in
many of them, I shall not be surprised at any event that may
happen, however extraordinary it may be, and therefore, it may
not be amiss to ruminate upon the information which has been
received in its fullest latitude, and be prepared to answer the de-
mands on the extensive scale which has been mentioned.

What then do you think ought to be said in case G

M 's information should prove true in all its parts ? and what

if the .proceedings and instructions of the French Directory
should not agree with my conjecture, which is, that encouraged
by the proceedings of last summer on the treaty (as already men-
tioned), and aided, perhaps, by communications of influential men
in this country, through a medium which ought to have been the
last to engage in it, that that government may, and I believe
will, send out an envoy extraordinary, with instructions, to make
strong remonstrances against the unfriendliness (as they will term
it) and the tendency of our treaty with Great Britain; accom-
panied, probably, and expectedly, with discretionary powers to

^t. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 117

go farther, according to circumstances, and the existing state of
matters when he shall have arrived here.

Perhaps these instructions may extend to a releasement from
that part of our treaty with them, which claims exemption from
the seizure of enemies' goods in our vessels ; perhaps to demand
the fulfilment of our guarantee of their West India islands
as the most likely means of affording them relief, under the cir-
cumstances they labor at present ; perhaps, too, to endeavor to
render null and void our treaty with Great Britain ; possibly
all of them, or the dissolution of the alliance. But I cannot bring
my mind to believe that they seriously mean, or that they could
accompany this envoy with a fleet, to demand the annihilation of
the treaty with Great Britain in fifteen days, or that war, in case
of refusal, must follow as a consequence.

Were it not for the unhappy differences among ourselves, my
answer would be short and decisive, to this effect : We are an
independent nation, and act for ourselves. Having fulfilled, and
being willing to fulfil (as far as we are able), our engagements
with other nations, — and having decided on, and strictly observ-
ed a mutual conduct towards the belligerent powers, from an
unwillingness to involve ourselves in war, we will not be dictated
to by the politics of any nation under heaven, farther than trea-
ties require of us.

Whether the present, or any circumstances should do more
than soften this language, may merit consideration. But if we are
to be told by a foreign power (if our engagements with it are
not infracted) what we shall do, and what we shall not do, we
have independence yet to seek, and have contended hitherto for
very little.

If you have communicated the purport of Mr. G M 's

letter to Mr. Jay, I wish you would lay this also before him, in
confidence, and that you and he would be so good as to favor me
with your sentiments and opinions on both ; and on the measures
which you think would be most advisable to be taken in case we
should have to encounter the difficulties with which we are
threatened, which, assuredly, will have been brought on us by
the misconduct of some of our own intemperate people, who seem

118 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

to have preferred throwing themselves into the arms of France
(even under the present circumstances of that country), to that
manly and neutral conduct which is so essential, and would so
well become us, as an independent nation.

Before I close this letter I will mention another subject, which,
though in a smaller degree, is nevertheless embarrassing. This
also is communicated in confidence. It respects the wishes of
young La Fayette, relative to his father. As is very natural, and
what might have been expected, he is extremely solicitous that
something should be attempted to obtain the liberation of him,
and has brought forward several plans (suggested by Doctor
Bollman, who, it is to be feared, will be found a troublesome
guest among us) to effect it.

These will be better understood by the inclosures now sent,
than by any details I could give, when I add to them the sup-
position of Fayette and Frestel, that the Doctor is without funds,
and will be more embarrassing to them, the longer he remains
here — no mention, however, that has come to my knowledge, of
his going away.

The result of my reflection on this subject, and which I have
communicated to the two young men, is, that although I am con-
vinced in my own mind that Mr. La Fayette will be held in con-
finement by the combined powers until peace is established ; yet,
to satisfy them and their friends of my disposition to facilitate
their wishes, as far as it can be done with any propriety on my
part, I would, as a private person, express in a letter to the empe-
ror my wish, and what I believe to be the wishes of this country
towards that gentleman, viz. : that the liberation of him, condi-
tioned on his repairing hither, would be a grateful measure ; that
this letter I would put under cover to Mr. Pinckney, to be for-
warded or not, according to the view he might have of its suc-
cess, after conversing indirectly with the diplomatic characters
of the combined powers in London ; but that I could not, while
in public office, have any agency in, or even knowledge of any
project that should require concealment, or that I should be un-
willing to appear openly and avowedly in ; that as Doctor Boll-
man had committed an act (however meritorious and pleasing it

Mi. 3t.] CORRESPONDENCE. 119

might be to the friends of Mr. de La Fayette,) which was received
in a very obnoxious light by the power in whose possession the
prisoner was — had narrowly escaped condign punishment for it
himself — and was released upon the express condition that he
should never again appear in those dominions — that I could
neither show him countenance, nor could I furnish him with
money to extricate himself from difficulties, (if he was in any,) —
seeing but little difference between giving before or after to a man
who stands in the light in which he does between that power and
the Executive of the United States ; but that, if he was disposed
to quit the latter, I had no doubt, and he might be so assured,
that the friends of Mr. de La Fayette would raise a sufficient sum
to enable him to do this, and to defray his expenses since he has
been in this country. What they will say to him, or he do in
this matter, I know not. If you and Mr. Jay see no impropriety
in such a letter as I have mentioned, to be used at the discretion
of Mr. Pinckney, I would thank either of you for drafting it —
Mr. Jay in particular having been in the habit, and better ac-
quainted with the style and manner of addressing these sort of
characters than I am, would be able to give it a better shape. To
return the papers now sent with the draught required as soon as
convenient, would be acceptable to, dear Sir,

Your affectionate servant,

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, May 10th, 17%.

Sir:

When last in Philadelphia, you mentioned to me your wish,
that I should re-dress a certain paper which you had prepared.
As it is important that a thing of this kind should be done with
great care, and much at leisure, touched and re-touched, I submit

120 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39

a wish that, as soon as you have given it the body you mean it to
have, it may be sent to me.*

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 15th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

On this clay week, I wrote you a letter on the subject of the

information received from G M , and put it with some

other papers respecting the case of Mr. de La Fayette under cover
to Mr. Jay ; to whom also I had occasion to write. But in my
hurry (making up the dispatches for the post-office next morn-
ing) I forgot to give it a superscription ; of course it had to re-
turn from New- York for one, and to encounter all the delay
occasioned thereby before it could reach your hands.

Since then I have been favored with your letter of the 10th
instant; and inclose (in its rough state) the paper mentioned
therein, with some alteration in the first page (since you saw
it) relative to the reference at foot. Having no copy by me
except of the quoted part, nor the notes from which it was
drawn, I beg leave to recommend the draft now sent, to your
particular attention. f

Even if you should think it best to throw the ivhole into a dif-
ferent form, let me request, notwithstanding, that my draft may
be returned to me (along with yours), with such amendments
and corrections, as to render it as perfect as the formation is sus-
ceptible of; curtailed if too verbose; and relieved of all tauto-
logy, not necessary to enforce the ideas in the original or quoted
part. My wish is that the whole may appear in a plain style ;
and be handed to the public in an honest, unaffected, simple
garb.

* Copied from Writings of Washington. Whether it is an extract from, or the
entire letter, is unknown to the editor.

•f The above draft of the Farewell Address is among the papers of Washington.

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 121

It will be perceived from hence, that I am attached to the
quotation. My reasons for it are, that as it is not only a fact that
such an address was written and on the point of being published,
but known also to one or two of those characters who are now
strongest and foremost in the opposition to the government ; and
consequently to the person administering of it contrary to their
views ; the promulgation thereof as an evidence that it was
much against my inclination that I continued in office, will
cause it more readily to be believed, that I could have no view
in extending the powers of the Executive beyond the limits pre-
scribed by the Constitution ; and will serve to lessen, in the pub-
lic estimation, the pretensions of that party to the patriotic zeal
and watchfulness, on which they endeavor to build their own
consequence at the expense of others, who have differed from
them in sentiment. And besides, it may contribute to blunt, if
it does not turn aside, some of the shafts which it may be pre-
sumed will be aimed at my annunciation of this event ; among
which conviction of fallen popularity, and despair of being re-
elected, will be levelled at me with dexterity and keenness.

Having struck out the reference to a particular character in
the first page of the address, I have less (if any) objection to ex-
punging those words which are contained Avithin parentheses in
pages 5, 7, and 8, in the quoted part, and those in the 18th page
of what follows. Nor to the discarding the egotisms (however
just they may be), if you think them liable to fair criticism, and
that they had better be omitted ; notwithstanding some of them
relate facts which are but little known to the communit}r.

My object has been, and must continue to be, to avoid per-
sonalities; allusions to particular measures, which ma\ appear
pointed ; and to expressions which could not fail to draw upon
me attacks which I should wish to avoid, and might not find
agreeable to repel.

As there will be another session of Congress before the politi-
cal existence of the present House of Representatives, or my
own, will constitutionally expire, it was not my design to say a
word to the Legislature on this subject; but to withhold the
promulgation of my intention until the period when it shall be-

122 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \JEt. 39.

come indispensably necessary for the information of the electors,
previous to the election (which, this year, will be delayed until
the 7th of December). This makes it a little difficult and uncer-
tain what to say, so long beforehand, on the part marked with a
pencil in the last paragraph of the second page.

All these ideas and observations are confined, as you will
readily perceive, to my draft of the valedictory address. If you
form one anew, it will, of course, assume such a shape as you
may be disposed to give it, predicated upon the sentiments con-
tained in the inclosed paper.

With respect to the gentleman you have mentioned as suc-
cessor to Mr. P , there can be no doubt of his abilities, nor

in my mind is there any of his fitness. But you know, as well
as I, what has been said of his political sentiments with respect
to another form of government; and from thence can be at no
loss to guess at the interpretation which would be given to the
nomination of him. However, the subject shall have due con-
sideration ; but a previous resignation would, in my opinion,
carry with it too much the appearance of concert ; and would
have a bad, rather than a good effect.

Always, and sincerely,

I am yours,
Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, May 20, 1796.

Sir:

A belief that the occasion to which they may be applicable,
is not likely to occur, whatever may have been once intended,
or pretended in terrorem, has delayed the following observations
in compliance with your desire, and which are now the result
of conferences with the gentlemen you named.

The precise form of any proposition or demand which may be
made to, or of the government, must so materially influence the

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 123

course proper to be pursued with regard to such proposition or
demand, that it is very difficult to judge by anticipation what
would be fit and right. The suggestions which can be submitted,
must, therefore, be very general and liable to much modification,
according to circumstances.

It would seem in almost any case advisable to put forward a
calm exhibition of the views by which our government have
been influenced in relation to the present war of Europe, —
making prominent the great interest we have in peace, in our
present infant state — the limitedness of our capacity for external
effort — the much greater injury we should have suffered, than
good we could have done to France, by taking an active part
with her — the probability that she would have derived more
advantage from our neutrality than from our direct aid — the
promptitude with which, while all the world was combined
against her, we recognized the new order of things and the con-
tinuance of our treaties, and before any other power had done
so — the danger to which we exposed ourselves in so doing — the
fidelity with which we have adhered to our treaties, notwith-
standing formal violations of certain parts of them on the other
side — our readiness to the utmost extent of our abilities to dis-
charge our debt without hesitation in the earliest period of the
revolution, and latterly having facilitated an anticipated enjoyment
of the balance — the zeal and confidence of our merchants, by
which they are now creditors for very large sums to France —
the patience with which we have seen infractions of our rights —
the peculiar nature of the war as it regarded the origin of our
relations to France (quere ?) — the declaration of the war by
France against the maritime powers — her incapacity for maritime
effort, and to supply our deficiency in that particular, so as to
render a war not absolutely ruinous to us — the early expecta-
tions given to us by her agents, that we were not expected to
become parties — the exposed state of our commerce at this time
with an immense property of our merchants afloat, relying on
the neutral plan which they have understood our government to
be pursuing, even with the concurrence of France, at least with-
out its opposition — the extreme mischiefs to us of a sudden

124 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEa. 39.

departure from the plan, and the little advantage to France from
our aid — the merely peace views which influenced our treaty with
Great Britain — the nature of that treaty involved no ingredient
of political connection reserving the obligation of our prior
treaties — the commercial articles terminating in two }^ears after
the present war — nothing in it to change the nature of our rela-
tions with France. All this will, of course, require great caution
and delicacy, so as not to compromise the dignity of the country,
or give umbrage elsewhere ; and I think the observations ought
to hold out the idea that, under all the circumstances of the case,
the government of the country thought itself at full liberty, con-
sistently with its treaties with France, to pursue a neutral plan.
And they ought to hold up strongly our desire to maintain
friendship with France — our regret that any circumstance of dis-
satisfaction should occur — our hope that justice and reason will
prevail, and preserve the good understanding, &c. The conclu-
sion of this preliminary exposition will be according to the
nature of the proposition.

If it should claim a renunciation of the British treaty, the
answer will naturally be, that this sacrifice of the positive and
recent engagements of the country is pregnant with consequences
too humiliating and injurious to allow us to believe that the
expectation can be persisted in by France, since it is to require
a thing impossible, and to establish, as a price of the continuance
of friendship with us, the sacrifice of our honor by an act of
perfidy, which would destroy the value of our friendship to any
nation. That, besides, the Executive, if it were capable of com-
plying with a demand so fatal to us, is not competent to it, it
being of the province of Congress, by a declaration of war, or
otherwise, in the proper cases, to annul the operation of treaties.

If it should claim the abandonment of the articles of the
present treaty respecting free ships, free goods, &c, the answer
may be that our treaties with France are an entire work — parts of
a whole — that nevertheless the Executive is disposed to enter
into a new negotiation by a new treaty to modify them, so as may
consist with a due regard to mutual interest and the circum-
stances of parties, and may even tend to strengthen the relations

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 125

of friendship and good understanding between the two coun-
tries.

If the guarantee of the West Indies should be claimed, the
answer may be, " that the decision of this question belongs to
Congress, who, if it be desired, will be convened to deliberate
upon it." I presume and hope they will have adjourned — for
to gain time is every thing.

The foregoing marks the general course of our reflections.
They are sketched hastily, because they can only be general ideas,
and much will depend on minute circumstances.

I observe what you say on the subject of a certain diplomatic
mission. Permit me to offer with frankness the reflections which
have struck my mind.

The importance of our security, and commerce, and good
understanding with Great Britain, renders it very important that
a man able and not disagreeable to that government, should be
there. The gentleman in question, equally with any who could
go, and better than any willing to go, answers this description.
The idea hinted in your letter will apply to every man fit for the
mission, by his conspicuousness, talents, and dispositions. 'Tis
the stalking-horse of a certain party, and is made use of against
every man who is not in their views and of sufficient consequence
to attract their obloquy. If listened to, it will deprive the gov-
ernment of the services of the most able and faithful agents.
Is this expedient ? What will be gained by it ? Is it not evident
that this party will pursue its hostility at all events as far as pub-
lic opinion will permit? Does policy require any thing more
than that they shall have no real cause to complain ? Will it do,
in deference to their calumniating insinuations, to forbear em-
ploying the most competent men, or to intrust the great business
of the country to unskilful, unfaithful, or doubtful hands ? I
really feel a conviction that it will be very dangerous to let party
insinuations of this kind prove a serious obstacle to the employ-
ment of the best qualified characters. Mr. King is a remarkably
well-informed man, a very judicious one, a man of address, a man
of fortune and economy, whose situation affords just ground of
confidence ; — a man of unimpeached probity where he is best

126 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

known, a firm friend to the government, a supporter of the
measures of the President — a man who cannot but feel that he
has strong pretensions to confidence and trust.

I might enlarge on these topics, but I have not leisure, neither
can it be necessary. I have thrown out so much in the fulness
of my heart, and too much in a hurry to fashion either the idea
or the expression as it ought to be. The President, however,
will, I doubt not, receive what I have said — as it is meant, as
dictated by equal regard to the public interest and to the honora-
ble course of his administration.

I have the honor to be very respectfully and affectionately,
Dear Sir, your obedient servant.

WATSON TO HAMILTON.

New- York, May 27, 1796.

Dear Sir:

Wishing to have the benefit of your much esteemed counsel
as a lawyer in important cases, if unfortunately I should be
hereafter involved in any, I have inclosed you my note for one
thousand dollars, payable in five years, with interest, at five per
cent, per annum, which I beg you to accept, and am, respectfully,
&c.

(Eeturned as being more than is proper, A. H.)

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 28, 1796.
I much fear that the new stock will not sell on the terms pro-
posed, nor on any terms, without an enormous discount, probably
not in sufficient sums at more than 17 shillings.

iET. 39.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 127

Treasury drafts cannot be negotiated for the sums wanted,
without a still greater loss, unless they are made payable at a
short date, say three or four months ; this will endanger the pub-
lic credit, and affect the banks, especially that of the United
States. The consequence is, the frigates must stop, or the new
stock must be sold on any terms. Sales of bank stock are
urged ; this idea has, however, been strenuously opposed by me.
There is but one other resource which I can think of, and that
is, to pledge sufficient sums of the new stock to be sold, after
the expiration of six or eight months, if not redeemed.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

May 30th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I perceive Congress are invading the Sinking Fund system.
If this goes through, and is sanctioned by the President, the fab-
ric of public credit is prostrate, and the country and the President
are disgraced. Treasury bills, and every expedient, however
costly, to meet exigencies, must be preferable, in the event, to
such an overthrow of system.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, June 1st, 1796.

My Dear Mc.

I am told the Executive Directory have complained of Mr.

our consul at . Perhaps the complaint may be

ill-founded, but perhaps also he was indiscreet in giving color
for it. Admit too that he is a good man, yet we must not quar-
rel with France for .pirn and needles. The public temper would

128 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

not bear any umbrage taken, where a trifling concession might
have averted it. "Pis a case for temporizing, reserving our firm-
ness for great and necessary occasions. Let Mk be super-
seded with a kind letter to him. I do not write to Pickering, or
the President, because I am not regularly possessed of the infor-
mation, but I hope you will attend to the matter, even at the ex-
pense of being a little officious.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, June 1st, 179G.

Sir:

I am almost afraid to appear officious in what I am going to
say ; but the matter presses so deeply on my mind, that fearing
you may not recollect the situation of the thing, and that it may
happen not to be brought fully under your eye, I cannot refrain from
making the suggestion to you. It regards a bill which, I am
told, has lately passed the two Houses of Congress, authorizing a
sale of bank stock, for paying off a sum due to the bank. You will
perceive by the 8th and 9th sections of the act entitled " An Act
making further provision for the support of the public credit,"
and for the redemption of the public debt, passed the 3d of
March, 1795, that the dividends of the bank stock are appro-
priated to the sinking fund, with all the force and solemnity of
which language is capable, and that to divert them in the manner
proposed (and this too without any substitute in the act which
so diverts) will be a formal, express, and unequivocal violation of
the public faith, will subvert the system of the sinking fund, and
with it all the security which is meant to be given to the people
for the redemption of the public debt, and, violating the sanctity
of an appropriation for the public debt, will overturn at once the
foundation of the public credit. These are obvious and undeni-
able consequences ; and though I am aware that great embarrass-
ments may ensue to the Treasury if the bill by the objection of

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 129

the President is lost, and no substitute for it takes place towards
the reimbursement of the bank — yet I am sure no consequences
can ensue of equal moment from the rejection as from the prin-
ciple of the bill going into execution.

All the President's administration has effected for establishing
the credit of the country will be prostrate at a single blow. He will
readily make all necessary comments upon this position. It
grieves my heart to see so much shocking levity in our represen-
tative body.

A. Hamilton".

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

June 14th, 1796.

The plan of the French and our patriots begins to develope.
The history of the capture of the Mount Yernon, and the apol-
ogy, or rather hypothesis offered in Mr. Bache's paper of this
morning, are important facts when taken in connection with
what we before knew. If more seizures shall be made, or if M.
Adet shall not give a satisfactory explanation, I do not see but
that Mr. Monroe must be recalled, and a special confidential min-
ister sent. I shall be glad to know your opinion of what is to
be clone. If a minister is sent, who should he be ?

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 15th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you. From some
recent information which I have obtained here, I have scarcely a
doubt that the plan of the French is,
f 9

130 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

Firstly — To take all enemy property in our ships, contrary to
the treaty between the two countries.

Secondly — To seize and carry in all our vessels laden with
provisions for any English port.

Among this, all that they choose to think enemy property will
be seized ; and, for the residue, they will promise to pay.

This state of things is extremely serious. The government
must play a skilful card, or all is lost. No doubt an explanation
has been asked of Mr. Adet. There is room enough for asking
it, and the result, if explanatory, ought in some convenient way
to be made known.

Moreover, the government must immediately set, in earnest,
about averting the storm. To this end a person must be sent in
place of Monroe. General Pinckney, John Marshall, Mr. Des-
saussure, of South Carolina, young Washington the lawyer, Mc-
Henry, Secretary at War, Judge Peters, occur as eligible, in dif-
ferent degrees, either of them far preferable to Monroe. It may be
understood, that the appointment is permanent or temporary, at
choice of the person sent. Under this idea perhaps Pinckney may
be prevailed upon — perhaps Marshall — it being well urged as a
matter of great importance to the country.

I mentioned to Colonel Pickering an idea which has since
dwelt powerfully on my mind. Mr. King ought not to be em-
powered to do any thing to prolong the treaty beyond the two
years after the war. This will afford the government a strong
argument. I earnestly hope this idea will prevail in the in-
stuctions.

P. S. — After turning the thing over and over in my mind, I
know of nothing better that you have in your power, than to
send McHenry. He is not yet obnoxious to the French, and has
been understood formerly to have had some kindness towards
their revolution. His present office would give a sort of import-
ance to the mission. If he should incline to an absolute relin-
quishment, his mission might be temporary, and Colonel Picker-
ing could carry on his office in his absence. He is at hand, and
might depart immediately ; and I believe he would explain very

/Et. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 131

well, and do no foolish thing. Though unusual, perhaps it might
be expedient for the President to write, himself, a letter to the
Executive Directory, explaining the policy by which he has been
governed, and assuring of the friendship. But this would
merit great consideration. Our measures, however, should be
prompt.

Sometimes I think of sending Pinckney, who is in England :
but various uncertainties, and possible delays, deter one from
this plan.

Remember always, as a primary motive of action, that the
favorable opinion of our country is to be secured.

A frigate or two to serve as convoys, would not be amiss.
If the English had been wise, they would neither have harassed
our trade themselves, nor suffered their trade with us, to be
harassed. They would see this a happy moment for conciliating
us by a clever little squadron in our ports, and on our coast.

A hint might not perhaps do harm.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 16th. 1796.

Dear Sir:

It appears to me material, under our present prospects, to
complete three frigates without delay. They may be useful with
reference to the Algerines. They may be useful to convoy our
vessels out of the reach of picaroon privateers, hovering on our
coast. I know you want money, but could not the merchants,
by secret movements, be put in motion to make you a loan ? I
think something of this kind may be done here ; and I should
presume at Philadelphia, &o. The sole ostensible object may be
the Algerines, but the second object may circulate in whispers.
If you conclude on any thing, I will second you.

Perhaps no bad form of the thing may be, to place in the hands
of your agents for building, Treasury bills, from one hundred to

132 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39

one thousand dollars, payable in a year with interest ; and to let
it be known among the merchants, that they are lodged ex-
clusively to facilitate the equipment of the ships. But a more
direct operation may be attempted, and I should hope with
success, for the sum you may want for the frigates.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 17th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I have your letters of the 15th and 16th instant; that for the
President will go on by the next mail.

The affair of the capture assumes a more equivocal character
as respects the French government than at first. In a confiden-
tial way from some of our merchants I have reason to believe,
that proposals were made to Mr. Murgatroyd who built the ship,
by Mr. Dunkinson, an English gentleman, not yet naturalized, to
become the purchaser ; that Dunkinson, on finding that he could
not obtain a register in his own name, made a conditional pur-
chase of the vessel, deliverable in England, after which the vessel
was registered in Murgatroyd's name. That the loading, though
in the names of Willings and Francis, is in fact British property,
and that these circumstances were known or strongly suspected
by the owner of the French privateer. If these things are true,
and the sole motives of the capture, the thing, though perhaps
wrong, is not alarming. I do not find that any other captures
have been made.

Mr. Adet, I understand, has written to Colonel Pickering that
the privateer was commissioned by the French government of
St. Domingo {but that he is ignorant what the orders of the privateer
■are), or ivhat orders the French Directory in the West Indies are
authorized to give in respect to neutral vessels.

This answer is neither satisfactory, or the contrary. It is
nothing, except that it leaves ground to suspect, that the West

At. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 133

India Directory possess some discretionary power, which may be
used to distress us, if circumstances should make it expedient.
What gives me more concern than the capture is, the complexion
of Bache's paper, which is, I think, calculated to prepare the pub-
lic mind to expect a new course of conduct by the French, con-
trary to our treaty, and distressing to our commerce.

I have been for some time inclined to think, that Mr. Monroe
ought to be recalled ; but as others have doubted, and as the thing-
was not demonstrable, I have not urged it. Every event shows,
however, new reasons for believing that we must stop the channels
by which foreign poison is introduced into our country, or suffer
the government to be overturned. At all hazards, the attempt
must be made.

I have the power of the President to borrow, and have been
making attempts in the manner you have intimated, but without
prospect of success. Bills can only be used in a case of the
utmost emergency, as the discount would be ruinous. I will,
however, carry on the public business this summer some way or
other, though I know that we shall ultimately fail, unless some
miraculous change in public measures shall speedily take place.
I will write you if any thing occurs.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

June, 1796.

Sir:

I have received information this morning of a nature which,
I think, you ought to receive without delay. A Mr. LeGuen, a
Frenchman, a client of mine, and in whom I have inspired confi-
dence, and who is apparently a discreet and decent man, called on
me this morning to consult me on the expediency of his becoming-
naturalized, in order that certain events between France and the
United States might not prejudice him in a suit which I am
directed to bring for him for a value of 160,000 dollars. I asked

134 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

him what the events to which he alluded were. He made me the
following reply under the strictest injunctions of confidence. " I
have seen a letter from St. Thomas to Mr. Labagarde of this city,
informing him that a plan was adopted to seize all American ves-
sels carrying to any English port provisions of any kind, to con-
duct them into some French port ; if found to be British property
to condemn them, if American, to take them on the accountability
of the government — adding, that he must not thence infer that it
was the intention to make war upon the United States — but it
was with a view to retaliate the conduct of Great Britain, to keep
supplies from her, and to obtain them for themselves, and was
also bottomed on some political motives not necessary to be
explained." "That it was also in contemplation when Admiral
Kichery arrived, if the ships could be spared, to send five sail of
the line to this country." Fearing, he said, that this might
produce a rupture between the two countries, he had called to
consult me on the subject, &c.

I asked his permission to make the communication to you.
He gave me leave to do it, but with the absolute condition
that the knowledge of names was on no account to go beyond
you and myself. I must therefore request, sir, that this con-
dition be exactly observed. He has promised me further in-
formation.

I believe the information, as well because the source of it
under all the circumstances engages my confidence, as because the
thing appears in itself probable. France wants supplies and she
has not the means of paying, and our merchants have done
crediting.

It becomes very material that the real situation should, as
soon as possible, be ascertained, and that the merchants should
know on what they have to depend. They expect that the gov-
ernment will ask an explanation of Mr. Adet, and that in some
proper way the result will be made known.

It seems to become more and more urgent that the United
States should have some faithful organ near the French govern-
ment to explain their real views, and ascertain those of the
French. It is all important that the people should be satisfied

,Et. 39.J CORRESPONDENCE. 185

that the government has made every exertion to avert a rupture,
and as early as possible.

Most respectfully and affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 26th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I learn from a gentleman of character, that a prize, brought
into Boston, by a French privateer, is about to be sold. This
being in direct breach of our treaty with Great Britain, how does
it happen ? Though no particular law passed, the treaty being
the law of the land, our custom-houses can, and ought to, pre-
vent the entry and sale of prizes, upon executive instruction. If
any thing is wanting to this end, for God's sake, my dear sir, let
it be done, and let us not be disgraced.

Yours,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. — Considering what is going on, and may go on, in the
"West Indies, it appears to me essential, that the President should
be empowered to lay embargoes in the interval between the
present and the next session of Congress.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, June 26th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter without date came to my hands by Wednesday's
post, and by the first post afterwards I communicated the pur-
port of it (withholding the names) to the Secretary of State, with

13G HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

directions to bestow the closest attention to the subject, and, if
the application which had been made to the Minister of France,
consequent on the capture of the ship Mount Vernon, had not
produced such an answer as to supersede the necessity, then to
endeavor to obtain such explanation of the views of the French
government relatively to our commerce with Great Britain, as
the nature of the case appeared to require.

That the fact is as has been represented to you, I have very
little if any doubt. Many, very many circumstances, are contin-
ually happening in confirmation of it ; among which, it is evident,
Bache's paper, which receives and gives the tone, is endeavoring
to prepare the public mind for this event, by representing it as
the predicted and natural consequence of the ratification of the
treaty with Great Britain.

Let me ask, therefore, Do you suppose that the Executive, in
the recess of the Senate, has power, in such a case as the one be-
fore us, especially if the measure should not be avowed by au-
thority, to send a special character to Paris as Envoy Extraordi-
nary, to give and receive explanations? And if there be a
doubt, whether it is not probable, nay, more than probable, that
the French Directory would, in the present state of things, avail
themselves of the unconstitutionality of the measure to decline
receiving him? The policy of delay, to avoid explanations,
would induce them to adopt any pretext to accomplish it. Their
reliance upon a party in this country for support would stimulate
them to this conduct ; and we may be assured they will not be
deficient in the most minute details of every occurrence and
every opinion worthy of communication. If, then, an envoy
cannot be sent to Paris without the agency of the Senate, will
the information you have received, admitting it should be real-
ized, be sufficient ground for convening that body?

These are serious things ; they may be productive of serious
consequences, and therefore require very serious and cool de-
liberation. Admitting, however, that the powers of the Presi-
dent during the recess were adequate to such an appointment,
where is the character who would go, that unites the proper
qualifications for such a mission, and would not be obnoxious to

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 137

one party or the other? And what should be done with Mr.
M in that case ?

As the affairs of this country, in their administration, receive
great embarrassment from the conduct of characters among our-
selves, and as every act of the Executive is misrepresented and
tortured with a view to make it appear odious, the aid of the
friends to government is peculiarly necessary under such circum-
stances and at such a crisis as the present. It is unnecessary,
therefore, to add, that I should be glad, upon the present and all
other important occasions, to receive yours; and as I have great
confidence in the abilities and purity of Mr. Jay's views, as well
as in his experience, I should wish that his sentiments on the
purport of this letter, and other interesting matters as they occur,
may accompany yours ; for, having no other wish than to pro-
mote the true and permanent interests of this country, I am
anxious always to compare the opinions of those in whom I con-
fide with one another, and these again (without being bound by
them) with my own, that I may extract all the good I can.

Having from a variety of reasons (among which a disinclina-
tion to be longer buffeted in the public prints by a set of infamous
scribblers) taken my ultimate determination " to seek the post
of honor in a private station," I regret exceedingly that I did
not publish my valedictory address the day after the adjourn-
ment of Congress. This would have preceeded the canvassing
for electors (which is commencing with warmth in this State).
It would have been announcing publicly, what seems to be very
well understood, and is industriously propagated privately. It
would have removed doubts from the minds of all, and left the
field clear for all. It would, by having preceded any unfavora-
ble change in our foreign relations (if any should happen), ren-
der my retreat less difficult and embarrassing. And it might
have prevented the remarks which, more than probable, will
follow a late annunciation — namely, that I delayed it long
enough to see that the current was turned against me, before I
declared my intention to decline. This is one of the reasons
which makes me a little tenacious of the draught I furnished you
with, to be modified and corrected.

138 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

Having passed, however, what / now conceive would have
been the precise moment to have addressed my constituents, let
me ask your opinion (under a full conviction that nothing will
shake my determination to withdraw) of the next best time, con-
sidering the present, and what may, probably, be the existing
state of things at different periods previous to the election ; or
rather the middle of October, beyond which the promulgation of
my intentions cannot be delayed. Let me hear from you as soon
as it is convenient, and be assured always of the sincere esteem

and affectionate regard of

Gr. Washington.

[The reply of Hamilton, dated July 5, 1796, is among the papers of Washington.]

HAMILTON TO ELISHA BOUDINOT.

July 7th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

You will oblige me by letting me have an extract from that
part of your mortgage law in New Jersey, which regulates the
mode of cancelling mortgages — also an extract from the regis-
tering book, of the usual manner in which entries for cancelling
were made about the years 1771, 1772, and 1773, and by inform-
ing me whether these entries have been adjudged conclusive —
though the order or certificate of the mortgage is not to to be
found, the mortgage money not paid, and the fact should appear
that the entry was a fraudulent act of the registering officer?

Excuse the trouble I give you, and use me freely in a like case.

How are your election prospects ? Do not let the discontent
with Dayton hazard the main point. 'Tis better by a coalition
with him to secure that, though you make some sacrifice of
opinion, than to produce a dangerous schism.

Our affairs are critical, and we must be dispassionate and
wise.

Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

^t.39.1 CORRESPONDENCE. 139

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July lGth, 1796.

Dear Sir :

Mr. Howell, the commissioner for settling the St. Croix bound-
ary, has been here this week, and started the following questions.

1st. " How far will it be proper for Mr. Howell to use his
discretion, in refusing to draw lots for the third commissioner, in
case the British commissioner shall persist in proposing a gentle-
man on his part, who may be, in Mr. Howell's opinion, not an
indifferent person?"

2d. "In case inhabitants of Massachusetts are thought ob-
jectionable on the part of the British, will not all inhabitants of
New Brunswick and Nova Scotia be also if not equally objec-
tionable ?"

3d. " Whether the authority of the commissioners can be
legally executed, unless the three commissioners sign the decla-
ration required of them by the treaty ? In other words, whether,
if any two of the commissioners agree, they can finally decide the
question ?"

I had previously received from Mr. Sullivan (the agent for
the United States) a letter, stating the interview between Mr.
Howell and Mr. Barclay at Boston, in which it appeared that
Mr. Barclay considered the appointment of a commissioner from
Massachusetts would be improper, because there was not one
from New Brunswick. Yet (Judge Sullivan remarks) Nova
Scotia, where Mr. Barclay resides, may be considered as a party,
seeing, he said, that lie could not take any steps towards the ap-
pointment of a third commissioner until he consulted Sir John
We at worth, the governor of that province, on the subject, as
well as the governor of New Brunswick. Judge Sullivan further
remarks, "that the lands in New Brunswick he considers as
owned by proprietors in Nova Scotia, as those in Vermont are
by proprietors in New Hampshire, and that therefore commis-
sioners in New Brunswick would be as eligible as in Nova
Scotia."

140 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [j&r. 39.

But the most unpleasant part of Judge Sullivan's information
is, " that though the third commissioner is to be nominated and
chosen, or drawn by the two original commissioners, Mr. Barclay
does not consider himself as acting judicially in the business, or
as equally responsible to both nations on the point, but considers
the appointment as a matter of negotiation between the parties,
and that any advantages which may be gained will he honorable.'1'1

Mr. Howell also informed me, that Mr. Barclay did avow this
extraordinary opinion, and, if it were a just one, as founded on
the treaty, it had been better to decide the question by the cast
of a dice ; but it is so repugnant to the oath which each commis-
sioner is to take, it is impossible that it should be the true con-
struction of the article. I suppose it was chiefly the avowal of
this principle on the part of Mr. Barclay, that led Mr. Howell to
propose his first query ; for while he should propose for the de-
cision of the choice of the third commissioner by lot, a gentleman
belonging to another State than Massachusetts, in order to obtain
a disinterested judge, it would be with extreme repugnance that he
would admit the name of an inhabitant of New Brunswick or
Nova Scotia, on account of the direct interest of the former, and
the probable interest of the latter, as above suggested by Judge
Sullivan, especially as Nova Scotia already furnishes one of the
commissioners. If, then, it will consist with good faith to refuse
to draw lots on so partial a nomination by Mr. Barclay, it is de-
sirable that it might be done. In a report made to Congress by
Mr. Jay in April, 1785, on the subject, he proposed that his
Britannic Majesty should name his half of the commissioners,
" being inhabitants of any of his dominions except those which
are situated in and to the west and south of the Gulf of St. Law-
rence, and that the United States should name the other half
from any of their countries except Massachusetts." The whole
number of commissioners then contemplated by Mr. Jay was six,
eight, ten, or twelve.

The 3d question asked by Mr. Howell is, in itself, as well as
for the reasons contained in the preceding observations, highly
important. The words in the article are: "The said commis-
sioners shall, by a declaration under their hands and seals, decide

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 141

what river is the river St. Croix intended by the treaty," not the
said commissioners or any two of them agreeing. What is the legal
construction of this article on this point? No such question
arises on the 6th and 7th articles ; any three of the five com-
missioners being competent to a decision, the fifth commissioner
being present. On one hand, if unanimity be necessary, it will
enable either party to counteract any flagrant partiality ; on the
other, it may defeat a great object of the article — putting a final
end to a dispute that might have disagreeable consequences.
Permit me to request your attention to this subject, and that you
would converse with Mr. Jay upon it. In the course of two or
three days I expect Mr. Howell will call on you both at New-
York.

GREENLEAF TO HAMILTON.

New-York, July 27th, 1796.

Dear Sir :

The indispensable necessity of an immediate though short
respite from business, united with motives of interest, and an
unbounded attachment to reputation, induce me to make a pro-
position to you of a pretty extraordinary nature, but which after
due reflection I flatter myself will be deemed not unworthy
your attention. My engagements of every possible nature do
not exceed twelve hundred thousand dollars, and my real and
personal estate may with ease be liquidated and made to pro-
duce five millions of dollars ; say, rather a million dollars annu-
ally for five consecutive years ; but in consequence of some im-
portant and unexpected delinquencies on the part of persons
whose engagements have become due to me, and must be paid
from securities given, my own engagements become due more
rapidly than my means (without having recourse to improper
operations) can be made to answer. If you will now be induced
to aid me with your name, responsibility and talents, in the
liquidation of my concerns and payment of my engagements, in

142 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

such wise that no undue sacrifice of property shall result, and
my name be borne through with the credit and propriety it
deserves, the one-third part of the net residue of my whole
estate, both real and personal, after payment of my engagements,
shall become yours, provided you will consent that the mass
shall remain undivided for ten years, and constitute the capital of
a banking-house, to be established either in this city or at Phila-
delphia, in our joint names and under your sole guidance, and
the profits divided between us in equal portions.

I have reason to believe that, with the aid of your name and
our joint responsibility, accompanied with the names of three
other persons as trustees for deposited property, it will, by a
reputable mode of financing I shall communicate, be practicable
for me to obtain the use of a million of dollars at legal interest
for the average term of five years, and with this sum I should
calculate on being able to pay off all my engagements with due
credit and advantage, as considerable amounts are due at distant
periods, and may be purchased in at a considerable discount.

If these outlines so far meet your approbation as to induce
you to wish my entering into a particular detail, it shall be done
at such time as will best suit your leisure and convenience.

HAMILTON TO GREENLEAF.

New- York, July 30th, 1796.

Dear Sir :

I have carefully reflected upon the subject of your letter of
the 27th instant.

Though the data which it presents authorize an expectation
of large pecuniary advantage, and though I discern nothing in the
affair which an individual differently circumstanced might not
with propriety enter into ; yet, in my peculiar situation, viewed
in all its public as well as personal relations, I think myself bound
to decline the overture.

With great regard, I am, dear Sir,

Your obedient servant.

^t.39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 143

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

August 3d, 1796.

Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of the 1st. I deplore the picture
it gives, and henceforth wish to forget there is a Bank or a Trea-
sury in the United States, though I shall not forget my regard
to individuals.

I do not see one argument in any possible shape of the thing,
for the sale of bank stock, or against that of the other stock,
which does not apply vice versa, and I shall consider it as one
of the most infatuated steps that ever was adopted.

God bless you,

A. Hamilton.

It will be known on Thursday whether any thing is to be
expected here.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 10th Aug., 1796.

My Dear Sir :

The principal design of this letter is to inform you that your
favor of the 30th ult., with its inclosure, got safe to my hands by
the last post, and that the latter shall have the most attentive
consideration I am able to give it.

A cursory reading it has had, and the sentiments therein
contained are extremely just, and such as ought to be inculcated.
The doubt that occurs at first view, is the length of it for a news-
paper publication ; and how far the occasion would countenance
its appearing in any other form, without dilating more on the
present state of matters, is questionable. All the columns of a
large gazette would scarcely, I conceive, contain the present
draught.

144 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

But having made no accurate calculation of this matter, I
may be much mistaken.

If any matters should occur to you as fit subjects of commu-
nication at the opening of the next session of Congress, I would
thank you for noting and furnishing me with them. It is my
wish and my custom to provide all the materials for the speech
in time, that it may be formed at leisure.

With sincere esteem and affectionate regard,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

[Hamilton's of Aug. 10th is among the papers of Washington.]

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, 25th Aug., 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I have given the paper herewith inclosed several serious and
attentive readings, and prefer it greatly to the other draughts,
being more copious on material points, more dignified on the
whole, and with less egotism ; of course, less exposed to criti-
cism, and better calculated to meet the eye of discerning readers
(foreigners particularly, whose curiosity, I have little doubt, will
lead them to inspect it attentively, and to pronounce their opin-
ions on the performance).

When the first draught was made, besides having an eye to
the consideration above mentioned, I thought the occasion was
fair (as I had latterly been the subject of considerable invective),
to say what is there contained of myself; and as the address was
designed in a more especial manner for the yeomanry of this
country, I conceived it was proper they should be informed of
the object of that abuse — the silence with which it had been

Mt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 145

treated, and the consequences which would naturally flow from
such unceasing and virulent attempts to destroy all confidence
in the executive part of the government ; and that it was best
to do it in language that was plain and intelligible to their
understandings.

The draught now sent comprehends the most, if not all these
matters — is better expressed — and, I am persuaded, goes as far
as it ought with respect to any personal mention of myself.

I should have seen no occasion myself for its undergoing a
revision ; but as j^our letter of the 30th ult., which accompanied
it, intimates a wish to do this, and knowing that it can be more
correctly done after a writing has been out of sight for some
time, than while it is in hand, I send it in conformity thereto,
with a request, however, that you would return it as soon as you
have carefully re-examined it ; for it is my intention to hand it to
the public before I leave this city, to which I came for the pur-
pose of meeting General Pinckney, receiving the ministers from
Spain and Holland, and for the dispatch of other business which
could not be so well executed by written communications be-
tween the heads of departments and myself, as by oral confer-
ences. So soon as these are accomplished I shall return ; at any
rate, I expect to do so by, or before, the tenth of next month,
for the purpose of bringing up my family for the winter.

I shall expunge all that is marked in the paper as unim-
portant, &c, &c. ; and as you perceive some marginal notes,
written with a pencil, I pray you to give the sentiments so
noticed mature consideration. After which, and in every other
part, if change or alteration takes place in the draught, let them
be so clearly interlined, erased, or referred to in the margin, a^
that no mistake may happen in copying it for the press.

To what editor in this city do you think it had best be sent
for publication ? Will it be proper to accompany it with a note
to him, expressing (as the principal design of it is to remove
doubts at the next election), that it is hoped, or expected, that
the State printers will give it a place in their gazettes, or prefer-
able to let it be carried by my private secretary to that press
which is destined to usher it to the world, and suffer it to work
F 10

146 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

its way afterwards? If you think the first most eligible, let me
ask you to sketch such a note as you may judge applicable to
the occasion. 1

With affectionate regard,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

Col. A. Hamilton.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, August 25, 1796.

Dear Sir:

It would have been agreeable to this government, if we could
have agreed to the appointment of Doctor Swaby as the fifth
Commissioner ; he is really a very candid and honorable man.
But for the same reason that we could not satisfy the Commis-
sioners on the part of Great Britain, with the appointment of
our countryman, Colonel Trumbull, an equally candid and honor,
able character, they have been unable to convince us, that under
all circumstances, it would be advisable that we should accept
Doctor Swaby.

The utmost propriety of conduct has been shown on both
sides ; and out of several names proposed by each, the British
Commissioners selected Colonel Trumbull, and our Commission-
ers Doctor Swaby, as the names to be put in the urn. The lot
has decided in our favor, and Colonel Trumbull, who is on the
spot, is the fifth Commissioner. The Board being now complete,
will proceed to business without unnecessary delay.

Knowing the immense importance of this Commission to our
commerce and navigation, I take the earliest opportunity to give
you this information. The surrender of the posts which has
taken place, and the very explicit assurances that I have re-
ceived from the highest authority in this nation, of a resolution
to carry into effect the treaty, with the most scrupulous fidelity,
make me anxious that nothing should take place on our part,

jEt. 39.] correspondence. 147

that would furnish even a pretence, much less a justification, for
arresting the further and complete execution of the treaty. . The
very extraordinary situation of Europe at this moment, should in-
spire us with great caution, and those whose property depends
on the treaties being permitted to go into full effect, should feel
and be influenced by this reflection.

Farewell.
Very sincerely yours,

Rufus King.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, September 1st, 1796.

Mr Dear Sir:

About the middle of last week I wrote to you ; and that it
might escape the eye of the inquisitive (for some of my letters
have lately been pried into), I took the liberty of putting it under
a cover to Mr. Jay.

Since then, revolving on the paper that was inclosed therein,
on the various matters it contained, and on the just expression
of the advice or recommendation which was given in it, I have
regretted that another subject (which in my estimation is of in-
teresting concern to the well-being of this country) was not
touched upon also ; — I mean education generally, as one of the
surest means of enlightening and giving just ways of thinking to
our citizens, but particularly the establishment of a university ;
where the youth from all parts of the United States might re-
ceive the polish of erudition in the arts, sciences, and belles-let-
tres; and where those who were disposed to run a political
course might not only be instructed in the theory and prin-
ciples, but (this seminary being at the seat of the general govern-
ment) where the legislature would be in session half the year,
and the interests and politics of the nation of course would be

148 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 39.

discussed, they would lay the surest foundation for the practical
part also.

But that which would render it of the highest importance, in
my opinion, is, that the juvenal period of life, when friendships
are formed, and habits established, that will stick by one ; the
youth, or young men from different parts of the United States
would be assembled together, and would by degrees discover
that there was not that cause for those jealousies and prejudices
which one part of the Union had imbibed against another part : —
of course, sentiments of more liberality in the general policy of
the country would result from it. What but the mixing of
people from different parts of the United States during the war
rubbed off these impressions? A century, in the ordinary inter-
course, would not have accomplished what the seven years' asso-
ciation in arms did ; but that ceasing, prejudices are beginning
to revive again, and never will be eradicated so effectually by
any other means as the intimate intercourse of characters in early
life, — who, in all probability, will be at the head of the counsels
of this country in a more advanced stage of it.

To show that this is no new idea of mine, I may appeal to
my early communications to Congress ; and to prove how seriously
I have reflected on it since, and how well disposed I have been,
and still am, to contribute my aid towards carrying the measure
into effect, I inclose you the extract of a letter from me to the
governor of Virginia on this subject, and a copy of the resolves
of the legislature of that State in consequence thereof.

I have not the smallest doubt that this donation (when the
navigation is in complete operation, which it certainly will be in
less than two years, will amount to £1200 or £1500 sterling a
year, and become a rapidly increasing fund. The proprietors
of the federal city have talked of doing something handsome
towards it likewise ; and if Congress would appropriate some of
the western lands to the same uses, funds sufficient, and of the
most permanent and increasing sort, might be so established as to
invite the ablest professors in Europe to conduct it.

Let me pray you, therefore, to introduce a section in the ad-
dress expressive of these sentiments, and recommendatory of the

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 149

measure, without any mention, however, of my proposed per-
sonal contribution to the plan.

Such a section would come in very properly after the one
which relates to our religious obligations, or in a preceding part,
as one of the recommendatory measures to counteract the evils
arising from geographical discriminations.

With affectionate regard,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 6th Sept., 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I received yesterday your letter of the 4th instant. If the
promised paper has not been sent before this reaches you, Mr.
Kitt, the bearer of it, who goes to New- York partly on mine and
partly on his own business, will bring it safely. I only await
here now, and shall in a few days do it impatiently, for the ar-
rival of General Pinckney.

If you think the idea of a university had better be reserved
for the speech at the opening of the session, I am content to de-
fer the communication of it until that period ; but, even in tha
case, I would pray you, as soon as convenient, to make a draught
for the occasion, predicated on the ideas with which you have
been furnished ; looking, at the same time, into what was said on
this head in my second speech to the first Congress, merely with a
view to see what was said on the subject at that time ; and this,
you will perceive, was not so much to the point as I want to ex-
press now, though it may, if proper, be glanced at, to show that
the subject had caught my attention early.

But, to be candid, I much question whether a recommenda
tion of this measure to the legislature will have a better effect
now than formerly. It may show, indeed, my sense of its im
portance, and that is a sufficient inducement with me to bring the

150 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

matter before the public, in some shape or another, at the closing
scenes of my political exit. My object for proposing to insert it
where I did (if not improper), was to set the people ruminating
on the importance of the measure, as the most likely means of
bringing it to pass.

With much truth,

I am your affectionate,

Geo. Washington.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, 10th Sept., 1796.

Dear Sir:

I received this morning a letter from Mr. Monroe, dated
Paris, August 28th, of which the following is an extract:

" As soon as the order of this government, as notified by the
Minister of Foreign Affairs to Barthelemi, the present ambassa-
dor at Basle, appeared in the papers, for it was never notified to
the foreign ministers here, I applied for information whether
orders were issued for the seizure of neutral vessels, stating
equally as the motive of my application a report, apparently well
authenticated, that one of our vessels had been lately taken near
our own coast ; and was informed, that no such order was issued,
and further, that none such would be, in case the British did not
seize our vessels. I am happy to give you this information, be-
cause I flatter myself the knowledge of this fact may be useful in
respect to our commerce with the country in which you reside.
I have in a former letter told you that the British government
deny that any order has been lately issued, or that any order ex-
ists, authorizing the seizure of neutral cargoes bound to the
French ports, as was alleged to be the case in the letter from the
French Minister of Foreign Affairs to Barthelemi."

The foregoing extract is all I know from Mr. Monroe re-
specting the resolution of the French government, communicated

^t. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 151

by their Minister of Foreign Affairs to their ambassador at Basle.
You will have seen the letter to Barthelemi, which is undoubtedly
authentic ; and you now have what Mr. Monroe reports as the
result of his application on the subject. I make no comments
nor inferences. You have the materials, and can make your own
interpretations.

Very sincerely yours,

Eufus King.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, September 11th, 1796.

Immediately after the publication of the letter from the French
government to their minister Barthelemi at Basle, announcing
their determination to seize the cargoes of neutral vessels destin-
ed to the English ports, I wrote to Mr. Monroe, informing him
that the British government disavowed the having issued any
recent order for the capture of neutral cargoes bound to French
ports, as alleged in the letter to Barthelemi — and by a letter that
I received to-day from Mr. Monroe, under date of the 28th of
August, he says, that on application for information whether the
French government have issued an order for the capture of
neutral vessels, he has been informed, that no such order has
been issued, and further, that none will be, in case the British did
not seize our vessels.

I am not quite able to explain this transaction, I therefore
give you such facts as I know you must seek for interpretations.
Yery sincerely and affectionately, &c.

152 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

HAMILTON TO BOND.

New-York, September 15th, 179G.

Sir:

Two days since a letter was delivered to me with a declara-
tion of the bearer that it came from Mr. Lyston. On opening the
cover, I found nothing, except a letter from Captain Cochran
(which, though not addressed, would appear to have been written
to some public agent of Great Britain), and a declaration of David
Wilson and Thomas Marshall respecting the ship Eliza. The
superscription of the packet resembling your handwriting, I
concluded that it might have come from you, and that by some
mistake the letter you had written me had been omitted, and
that on discovery of omission, it would have been forwarded by
another opportunity. Finding after two days' waiting that the
expectation has not been realized, I have determined to write to
you on the subject.

Mr. Charles Wilkes had previously applied to me concerning
this affair, and had submitted to my consideration various papers.
The result was that I discouraged a judicial prosecution. My
reasons are these :

Taking it to be true, as stated, that Captain Huffey brought
from the shore within our territory persons who by force aided him
to rescue the captured vessel, I am of opinion that this circum-
stance would give jurisdiction of the case to our courts on the
application of the capturing party.

But when on such application any of our courts should hold
jurisdiction, it would in my judgment go into the merits and ex-
amine the validity of the capture.

Here these facts occur : that the Eliza, being a transport vessel
in the service of Great Britain, was captured by a French priva-
teer, fitted out of some port of France by Barney an American
citizen, in quality of armateur ; Leveille, probably a Frenchman,
captain by commission ; and was afterwards condemned as prize
by the sentence of a court of admiralty at Dunkirk — and as far
as the direct proof goes, purchased in virtue of that sentence by
an American citizen.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 153

It is conjectured that two-thirds of the vessel may have be-
longed to a French house, Messrs. De Baques ; because it appears
that Huffey paid two thirds of the purchase-money in a bill
drawn by that house. But this is evidently a mere circumstance
of suspicion, and wholly inconclusive. Why may not the De-
Baques have been factors or agents for Huffey t Why may not
Huffey have purchased their draft towards the payment ? One
or the other of the two latter suppositions would no doubt
prevail with the court, if there was no collateral proof to the
contrary.

It is also conjectured that the Eliza may have continued the
property of Barney. But all the documents now in the power of
the captor speak a contrary language. This suspicion, then,
however just it may be in fact, cannot be supported.

The question then is, would the equipment of the privateer
by Barney be sufficient to invalidate the purchase by a neutral
citizen under the sentence of a court of the capturing power?

No opinion of any theoretic writer, nor, as I believe, any
usage of any nation, nor the decisions of courts of admiralty,
will authorize, in my judgment, an affirmative answer to that
question.

If Mr. Barney comes within the 21st article of our treaty with
Great Britain, it would make him liable, if taken by Great Britain,
to be punished as a pirate. But it will be observed that the
stipulation would not oblige the United States to treat him as
such. And the article being confined to personal punishment,
may be supposed not to contemplate the confiscation of property
captured by such a person.

But it would be to go an unheard of length to pronounce null
the prize made under such circumstances, by a vessel fitted out
of the ports of the belligerent power, and regularly commission-
ed, and after a sentence of condemnation.

Therefore, and as the property in question is of little value,
and as smart damages would be likely to attend a failure of the
prosecution, I advised against it, as I now still do.

Yet if Captain Cochran, or any person acting on his behalf,
shall desire the experiment to be made, however unpromising in my

154 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \Mc, 39.

view, I shall esteem it a professional duty, and due to justice
to a foreign power, to put the affair in a course of judicial
investigation.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, October 17th, 1796.

Permit me to ask your opinion on the following points :

1st. Ought we, or ought we not, to permit sales of prizes to
French national ships of war as formerly, on payments of duties?

2d. In case of an affirmative answer to the first question,
What is to be regarded as evidence of a national ship ? will the
certificate of a French commissioner in the West Indies, or of a
consul or the French minister in the United States, be sufficient,
provided nothing appears in the commission of the vessel contra-
dictory to their certificate?

3d. May we keep an inspector on board a prize during her
continuance in our ports ?

4th. In case a prize requires reparation, may a 'part of her
cargo be sold, sufficient to defray her expenses on payment of
duties ?

5th. In case a prize vessel is condemned as incapable of repa-
ration, may the prize goods be exported in our own or other
neutral vessels, as French property ?

6th. Who is to judge when it is necessary to unlade a vessel
for the purpose of making reparations ? Is the suggestion of a
French prize-master or consul sufficient?

7th. May the cargoes of prizes be sold, or any part of them,
for the reparation of any vessel, or the payment of any expense
not incidental to the identical vessel in which the cargoes ar-
rived ?

8th. Who is to judge of the quantity sufficient for making
reparations, in case any sale is lawful ?

9th. If, after a vessel is condemned as incapable of repara-

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 155

tion, she should be notwithstanding repaired, is she to be per-
mitted to depart?

10th. Is it, or is it not, the right of the collector to treat
French prizes in the same manner as vessels which report them-
selves as bound to a foreign port, or which arrive in distress ?
See section 18th and 38th of the collection law.

The 18th and 38th sections of the collection law appear to
have provided for cases not very dissimilar from those of prizes
to privateers, which, in contemplation of law, must be considered
as coming into our ports merely for refreshment ; the requiring
of a bond on their departure may not, however, be proper.

We shall, on the subject of these prizes, be vexed with every
kind of uncandid ingenuity. There is danger of losing the
revenue, while at the same time sales may not be prevented.
You will see that not only public questions which affect our
neutrality, but revenue questions are concerned ; there are too
many who will not miss a good opportunity of purchasing West
India produce, when it can be had below the market price.

In every point of view the subject is embarrassing. Please
to reply as soon as possible.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

Albany, October 27th, 1796.

Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 17th instant found me at Albany, attend-
ing the Supreme Court. I have no copy of the treaty with
Great Britain at hand, but I am well satisfied, from memory,
that the true interpretation of that treaty, enforcing, in this re-
spect, the true rule of neutrality, forbids our permitting the sale
of a prize, taken and brought in by a French national ship, equally
as if by a privateer; and that the prize vessel herself with her
cargo, ought to depart our ports. I hasten to give you my opin-
ion thus far. I reserve to consider more at leisure, what excep-

156 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

tions absolute necessity may justify. But this is clear, that as
far as it may admit any, the exception must be measured and
restricted by the necessity, and as soon as possible you must return
into the path of the treaty.

Thus if the prize vessel was absolutely insufficient to proceed
to sea, her cargo ought to be sent out of the country in another
vessel ; and care ought to be taken that it does not go out under
false colors. Our own officers, no doubt, must inspect and ascer-
tain any case of necessity which may be suggested.

Pray, my good friend, let there be no evasions.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

November 1st, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you a line from Albany, expressing an opinion from
memory, that our treaty with Great Britain prohibited the sale of
prizes made by French national ships. Being just returned to
town, I have looked into the article which related to the point,
and I fear that opinion was wrong. In a day or two I will
write to you more particularly.

Adet's late communication demands a very careful and well-
managed answer.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, 2d November, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

On Monday afternoon I arrived in this city, and among the
first things which presented themselves to my view, was Mr.
Adet's letter to the Secretary of State, published by his order at
the moment it was presented.

JEr. 39.J

CORRESPONDENCE. 157

The object in doing this is not difficult of solution; but
whether the publication, in the manner it appears, is by order of
the Directory, or an act of his own, is yet to be learned. If the
first, he has executed a duty only ; if the latter, he has exceeded
it, and is himself responsible for the indignity offered to this go-
vernment by such publication, without allowing it time to reply
— or to take its own mode of announcing the intentions of his
country towards the commerce of these United States.

In the other case, should there be, in your opinion, any dif-
ference in my reception and treatment of that minister in his
visits at the public rooms (I have not seen him yet, nor do not
expect to do it before Tuesday next), and what difference should
be made, if any ?

He complains in his letter, that he has received no answers
to the remonstrances in former communications (the dates of
which are given). The fact is, that one at least of these remon-
strances were accompanied by as indecent charges, and as offen-
sive expressions as the letters of Genet were ever marked with •
and besides, the same things, on former occasions, had been re-
plied to (as the Secretary of State informs me), over and over
again.

That the letter which he has now given to the public will be
answered, and (to a candid mind) I hope satisfactorily, is certain ;
but ought it to be published immediately, or not? This question
has two sides to it, both of which are important. If the answer
does not accompany the letter, the antidote will not keep pace
with the poison — and it may and undoubtedly would be said, it
is because the charges are just, and the consequences had been
predicted. On the other hand, may not the dignity of the gov-
ernment be committed by a newspaper dispute with the minister
of a foreign nation, and an apparent appeal to the people ? And
would it not be said also, that we can bear every thirty from one
of the belligerent powers, but nothing from another of them ? I
could enlarge on this subject, but add nothing, I am certain, that
your own reflections thereon will not furnish. Whether the an-
swer is published now or not, would it be proper, do you con-
ceive, at the ensuing session, which will close the political scene

15S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

with me, to bring the French affairs, since the controversy with
Grenet, fully before Congress ? In doing this, it is to be noticed
that there is such a connection between them and our transactions
with Great Britain, as to render either imperfect without the
other ; and so much of the latter as relates to the treaty with
that country, has already been refused to that body ; not because
there was any thing contained therein that all the world might
not have seen, but because it was claimed as a matter of right,
and the compliance therewith would have established a danger-
ous precedent.

Since I wrote to you from Mount Yernon, on the eve of my
departure from that place, and on my way hither, I received a
letter from Sir John Sinclair — an extract of which I inclose you —
on the subject of an agricultural establishment. Though not such
an enthusiast as he is, I am nevertheless deeply impressed with
the benefits which would result from such an institution ; and if
you see no impropriety in the measure, I would leave it as a re-
commendatory one in the speech at the opening of the session ;
which probably will be the last I shall ever address to that or
any other public body.

It must be obvious to every man who considers the agricul-
ture of this country (even in the best improved parts of it), and
compares the produce of our lands with those of other countries,
no ways superior to them in natural fertility, how miserably de-
fective we are in the management of them ; and that if we do
not fall on a better mode of treating them, how ruinous it will
prove to the landed interest. Ages will not produce a systematic
change without public attention and encouragement ; but a few
years more of increased sterility will drive the inhabitants of the
Atlantic States westwardly for support ; whereas, if they were
taught how to improve the old, instead of going in pursuit of
new and productive soils, they would make those acres which
now scarcely yield them any thing, turn out beneficial to them-
selves— to the mechanics, by supplying them with the staff of life
on much cheaper terms — to the merchants, by increasing their
commerce and exportation — and to the community generally, by
the influx of wealth resulting therefrom. In a word, it is in my

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 159

estimation, a great national object, and, if stated as fully as the
occasion and circumstances will admit, I think it must appear so.
But whatever may be the reception or fate of the recommenda-
tion, I shall have discharged my duty in submitting it to the con-
sideration of the legislature.

As I have a very high opinion of Mr. Jay's judgment, can-
dor, honor, and discretion (though I am not in the habit of
writing so freely to him as to you), it would be very pleasing to
me if you would show him this letter (although it is a hurried
one, my time having been much occupied since my arrival by
the heads of the departments, and with the papers which have
been laid before me), and let me have, for consideration, your
joint opinions on the several matters herein stated.

You will recollect that the conduct to be observed towards
Mr. Adet, must be decided on before Tuesday next ; that is, if he
comes to the public room, whether he is to be received with the
same cordiality as usual, or with coolness ; and you will do me
the justice to believe, that in this instance, and every other, I
wish it to be such as will promote the true policy and interest of
the country, at the same time that a proper respect for its dignity
is preserved. My own feelings I put out of the question.

There is in the conduct of the French government relative to
this business an inconsistency, a duplicity, a delay, or a some-
thing else, which is unaccountable upon honorable ground. It
appears that the order under which Mr. Adet has acted is dated
in July (early), and yet Mr. Monroe had been led to believe
(though much dissatisfaction he says has appeared), that no such
order had, or would be issued, unless Great Britain set the ex-
ample ; and in a letter of August the 28th, he writes Mr. King
to that effect, as the latter officially informs the Secretary of State.
But I am fatigued with this and other matters which crowd upon
me, and shall only add that I am very affectionately

Yours,

George Washington.

p# g. — I find I have not time before the hour for closing the
mail arrives to take the promised extract from Sir John Sinclair's

160 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

letter, I therefore send the original, with a request that it may-
soon be returned, as I have given it no acknowledgment — the
articles which he requests my acceptance of are not yet come to
hand.

"WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 3d Nov., 1796.

My Dear Sir:

After my letter of yesterday was dispatched to you, the draft
of the answer to Mr. Adet was presented for my approbation,
with the opinions of the gentlemen about me that it would be
expedient to publish it, and without delay.

It appeared also by information from the Secretary of State,
that as far as public opinion had been expressed on the occasion,
that this measure was looked to and expected. These considera-
tions, and a conviction, if the publication was to take place other-
wise than through the medium of Congress, the sooner it hap-
pened the more likely it would be to obviate the bad impressions
it was calculated to make on the public mind, induced an acqui-
escence on my part. I do not, nevertheless, think it free from
those objections which I mentioned in my last; as it is not proba-
ble that the correspondence will end with the Secretary's letter.

I give you the trouble of this note to account for the publica-
tion which you will find in the gazettes of this morning, and to
rescue my conduct from the imputation of inconsistency.

There are other parts of my letter not involved in this deter-
mination, which await the opinions I have asked, and on which
I should be glad to hear from you (and in the manner which has
been required in preceding letters), as soon as it is convenient.
I am your aifectionate friend,

George Washington.

^t. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 161

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

November 3, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I have more carefully examined our treaty with Great Bri-
tain, and I return to the opinion given you from Albany. My
hesitation yesterday arose from the terms of the twenty-fourth
article, which were confined to privateers, a word that has an
appropriate sense, meaning ships of private persons commissioned
to cruise. But the following article contains the equivalent one
to that with France, upon which we refused all bringing in and
sale of prizes by her enemies. The words are, "no refuge," &c,
the major including the minor. And though France, by our treaty
with her, may bring in prizes, yet the treaty gives her no right to
sell. The clause in question, in the English treaty, cannot take
away the right she before had, to bring in her prizes ; but as she
had not a positive right to sell, it will oblige her to depart with
them : in other words, it will preclude her from whatever she
has not a positive right to. This also is Mr. Jay's opinion, and
it is certainly agreeable to the whole spirit of the treaty.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

November 4, 1796.

Sir:

I have lately been honored with two letters from you — one
from Mount Vernon, the other from Philadelphia, which came
to hand yesterday. I immediately sent the last to Mr. Jay, and
conferred with him last night. We settled our opinion on one
point, viz. : That whether Mr. Adet acted with or without in-
struction from his government, in publishing his communication,
he committed a disrespect towards our government, which ought
not to pass unnoticed, and would most properly be noticed to him
F 11

162 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

as the representative or agent. That the manner of noticing it
in the first instance, at least, ought to be negative ; that is, by
the personal conduct of the President towards the minister.
That the true rule on this point would be to receive the minister
at your levees with a dignified reserve, holding an exact medium
between an offensive coldness and cordiality. The point is a nice
one to be hit, but no one will know better how to do it than the
President.

Self-respect, and the necessity of discouraging further insult,
requires thai sensibility should be manifested ; on the other hand,
the importance of not widening a breach, which may end in
rupture, demands great measure and caution in the mode.

Mr. Jay and myself are both agreed also, that no immediate
publication of the reply which may be given, ought to be made,
for this would be like joining in an appeal to the public — would
countenance and imitate the irregularity, and would not be dig-
nified ; nor is it necessary for any present purpose of the govern-
ment. Mr. Jay inclined to think that the reply ought to go
through Mr. Pinckney to the Directory, with only a short note
to Adet acknowledging the reception of his pjaper, and inform-
ing him that this mode will be taken. I am not yet satisfied
that this course will be the best. We are both to consider fur-
ther, and confer. You will shortly be informed of the result.

But whatever be the mode adopted, it is certain that the
reply will be one of the most delicate papers that has proceeded
from our government, in which it will require much care and
nicety to steer between sufficient and too much justification, be-
tween self-respect and the provocation of further insult or injury ;
and that will, at the same time, save a great political interest
which this step of the French government opens to us. Did I
not know how guarded you will yourself be, I should be afraid
of Mr. Pickering's warmth. We must, if possible, avoid rupture
with France, who, if not effectually checked, will, in the insolence
of power, become no less troublesome to us than to the rest of
the world.

I dedicate Sunday to the execution of your commands in pre-
paring certain heads. You will speedily hear again from me.

Most affectionately and respectfully, I have the honor to be, &c.

^Et. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 163

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Nov. 5, 1796.

Sir:

Yesterday, after the departure of the post, I received your
letter of the 3d. I have since seen the answer to Adet. I per.
ceive in it nothing intrinsically exceptionable, but something in
the manner a little epigrammatical and sharp. I make this re-
mark freely, because the card now to be played is perhaps the
most delicate that has occurred in your administration ; and na-
tions, like individuals, sometimes get into squabbles from the
manner more than the matter that passes between them. It is
all-important to us — first, if possible, to avoid rupture with
France ; secondly, if that cannot be, to evince to the people that
there has been an unequivocal disposition to avoid it. Our dis-
cussions, therefore, ought to be calm, smooth, inclined to the argu-
mentative ; when remonstrance and complaint are unavoidable,,
carrying upon the face of them a reluctance and regret, mingling a
steady assertion of our. rights and adherence to principle with
the language of moderation, and, as long as it can be done, of
friendship.

I am the more particular in these observations, because I
know that Mr. Pickering, who is a very worthy man, has never-
theless something warm and angular in his temper, and will re-
quire much a vigilant, moderating eye.

I last evening saw Doctor Bailey, our health officer, who tells
me that the French consul here, in conversation with an assistant
of the doctor's, who is a refugee from St. Domingo, expressed a
desire to make arrangements for the sick of a French fleet ex-
pected shortly to arrive at this port. I thought this circumstance
worth communication.

With the most respectful attachment, I have the honor to
be sir, &c.

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 39.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Nov. 6, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I fear that your opinion of Nov. 3d has been founded on a
partial view of the case.

You will remember that it has been all along a received
opinion, that the French had a right by treaty to enjoy an in-
definite asylum in our ports, but that they could not claim the
privilege of selling 'prizes in our ports.

The privilege of an indefinite asylum was also granted to
British ships of war and letters of marque, provided they had not
made prizes of French vessels.

I do not, therefore, see that the 25th article of the British
treaty can be construed to abridge a right which we have ac-
knowledged to be accorded to France under our prior treaty,
especially as this article saves the rights of France expressly.

The right of selling prizes stands on different ground. It
might have been refused to France in all cases. It was, however,
granted by the President in all cases. The British treaty takes
away this privilge from privateers, but it leaves the cases of prizes
to neutral ships as formerly. The United States may pass a law
to take away the privilege of selling prizes to national ships, but
they have passed no law on the subject. The President's de-
cisions now must be consistent with his former decisions, except
where treaties and laws require a change. As before mentioned,
there is no law. The British treaty speaks only of privateers, and
it has been ever held that a stipulation affecting privateers could
not be extended to affect neutral ships.

In short, though I wish your opinion may be found tenable,
yet I do not at present see how it can be maintained. This, you
will see, renders some of the other questions proposed by me
both difficult and important.

There was no inclosure in your letter. Have we done right
with Mr. Adet ? I wish to know, as we may hear further. Must
we, or must we not, publish further in the papers? If so, under
what circumstances?

.Et. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 165

The federal ticket is lost here. There are still hopes that Mr.
Adams will be elected, but nothing more. I hope Mr. P. will
be supported, as the next best thing which can be done.

Pray write to our Eastern friends.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

November 9th, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I received yesterday your letter of the 6th, and immediately
wrote some additional letters to the eastward, enforcing what I
had before written. Pennsylvania does not surprise me.

I have reconsidered the opinion given to you on the third,
and see no reason to change it. The reasoning which leads me
to the conclusion, has not been sufficiently explained, I will there-
fore be more particular.

The articles in our treaty with France, which respect the sub-
ject, are the seventeenth and twenty-second.

The seventeenth consists of two parts.

Firstly, It grants asylum in our ports for French ships of war
and privateers, with their prizes ; and with liberty to carry them
freely thence to their own ports.

Secondly. It prohibits the giving refuge, in our ports, to such
as shall have made prize of the subjects, or property, of the French. It
grants no right to sell prizes in our ports, neither does the letter
of the article prohibit prizes, made of the French, from coming
into our ports. It only prohibits the instrument of making the
prizes. But the construction justly adopted by the President
was, that the prohibition, in its true spirit, excluded the bringing
in of prizes, whether coming with, or without, the capturing
vessels. 'Tis upon this part of the treaty, alone, that prizes
made by national vessels of Great Britain, were excluded from our
ports. For,

The twenty-second article with France is wholly confined to
privateers ; prohibiting those of other nations to fit or to sell their
prizes in our ports.

166 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

This article, had it stood alone, would have left us as free to
admit British national ships, with their prizes, into our ports, as
our twenty-fourth article with Great Britain leaves us free to
admit French national ships, with their prizes. For these articles
are the exact equivalents of each other. So that, as before re-
marked, the prohibition of the coming in, or sale in, our ports, of
prizes made upon the French by British national ships, was derived,
by construction and implication, from the seventeenth article of our
treaty with France.

It follows, that this article was considered as competent to
prevent the coming in and sale of prizes.

If so, the same, or equivalent, terms in the British treaty,
must be competent to the same thing.

Now the twenty-fifth article of our treaty with Great Britain
has equivalent terms. We there read, that "no shelter or refuge
shall be given in their ports to such as have made a prize upon
the subjects, or citizens, of either of the contracting parties ; but
if forced, by stress of weather or the danger of the sea, to enter
therein, particular care shall be taken to hasten their departure ;
and to cause them to retire as soon as possible." This prohibi-
tion includes here, as in the seventeenth article of our treaty with
France, a prohibition to sell prizes in our ports ; not the prizes of
privateers only, but prizes generally.

But France, it is answered, had a prior right, by the seven-
teenth article of our treaty with her, "to come and bring prizes
into our ports."

True, she had this right, and must have it still, notwithstanding
the twenty-fifth article of our treaty with Great Britain ; but she
had no prior right, by treaty, to sell prizes in our ports ; and con-
sequently, as the twenty-fifth article of our treaty with Great
Britain excludes, as the minor of a major, the selling of prizes in
our ports, the exclusion, so far, is in force, because it contravenes
no prior right of France. As far as the treaty with France gives
a right, inconsistent with the above twenty-fifth article, that
right forms an exception ; but the exception must be only co-
extensive with the right. The conclusion is that France retains
the right of asylum, but is excluded from the right of selling.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 167

This gives effect to the twenty-fifth article with Great Britain,
far as the treaty-right of France does not require an exception.

And this construction ought to be favored, because it bes
comports with the rule of neutrality.

It will also best agree with the President's former decisions
He permitted France to sell prizes ; not because treaty gave her
a right, but because he did not see clearly any law of the country,
or of nations, that forbid it. But consistency does not require
that this permission shall continue, if there be any thing in the
treaty with Great Britain against it. Consistency, however, does
require that the same latitude of construction should be given to
the twenty-fifth article of our treaty with Great Britain, as was
before given to the seventeenth article of our treaty with France.
The same latitude will, as I apprehend, exclude the sale of prizes,
by France, in the case in question.

I regret extremely the publication of the reply to Adet, other,
wise than through the channel of Congress. The sooner the
Executive gets out of the newspapers the better. What may
now be in its power, will depend on circumstances which are
to occur.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, November 10, 1796.

Sir:

I have been employed in making, and have actually com-
pleted a rough draft on the following heads: — "National Uni-
versity; Military Academy ; Board of Agriculture ; establishment of
such manufactories on public account as are relative to the equip-
ment of army and navy, to the extent of the public demand for sup-
ply, and excluding all the branches already well established in
the country ; the gradual and successive creation of a navy ; com-
pensations to public officers; reinforcement of provisions for public
debt." I send you this enumeration, that you may see the ob-
jects which I shall prepare for. But I must beg your patience

168 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

till the beginning of the next week for the transmission of the
draft, as I am a good deal pressed for time.

The legislature having appointed Mr. Laurance district judge,
a successor will of course be to be provided. A conviction of his
competency, a high opinion of his worth, and a long-established
personal friendship, induce me to take the liberty of precipitating
a recommendation to you of Mr. Troup, the present clerk of
the District and Circuit Court (the attorney of the district being
known to be disinclined to the office). Mr. Troup is a lawyer,
professionally very respectable, so that his practice is inferior in
productiveness to no other ; but he has by the most unexception-
able means acquired a property sufficient to make it reasonable
in him to withdraw from practice, upon a salary such as that of
the district judge, and latterly his health has somewhat suffered
from a long course of excessive application. His moral character
is without an imputation of any sort ; indeed no man in the State
is better esteemed than this gentleman ; so that, I believe, the
appointment would be considered as altogether lit. I trust, how-
ever, that in expressing myself thus strongly, it will not occasion
to you a moment's embarrassment, if any candidate more agree-
able to you shall occur.

Yery respectfully and affectionately, I have the honor to be,
Sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

November 11, 1796.

Sir:

My anxiety for such a course of things as will most promise
a continuance of peace to the country, and in the contrary event
a full justification of the President, has kept my mind dwelling
on the late reply to Mr. Adet; and, though it is a thing that
cannot be undone, yet, if my ideas are correct, the communication
of them may not be wholly useless for the future. The more I
have considered that paper, the less I like it.

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 169

I think it is to be regretted that answers were not given to
the preceding communications of Mr. Adet. For silence com-
monly carries with it the appearance of hauteur and contempt.
And even if the paper to be answered is offensive, 'tis better
and less hazardous to harmony to say so, with calmness and
moderation, than to say nothing. Silence is only then to be
adopted, when things have come to such a state with a minister,
that it is the intention to break with him. And even in this
case, if there is still a disposition to maintain harmony with his
government, a reply ought to go through our own organ to it, so
as to distinguish .between the minister and the government.

The reason given for not having answered the inquiry re-
specting the impressment of our seamen is too broad. When
two nations have relations to each other, and one is at war, the
other at peace; if the one at peace suffers liberties to be taken
with it by the enemy of the one at war, which turns to the detri-
ment of the latter, it is a fair subject of inquiry and discussion.
The questions may be asked, How does this happen ? What meas-
ures are taking to prevent a repetition or continuance ? There is
always possibility of connivance, and this possibility gives a right
to inquire, and imposes an obligation to enter into friendly ex-
planation. 'Tis not a matter of indifference to our friend, what
conduct of its enemy we permit towards ourselves. Much in-
deed in all these cases depends on the manner of the inquiry ;
but I am satisfied the principle is as I state it, and the ground
assumed by Mr. Pickering, in the latitude of the expression, un-
tenable.

These opinions are not confined to me. Though most people
like the air of what is called spirit in Mr. Pickering's letter, yet
some of the best friends of the cause whisper cautiously remarks
similar to the above.

It is a question now well worth considering, whether, if a
handsome opportunity of rectifying should not occur with Mr.
Adet, it may not be expedient specially to instruct Mr. Pinckney
to make the explanations, putting our backwardness here to the
score of the manner of the inquiry, and qualifying the generality
of our principle — without giving up our right of judging of the
measure of our compliance in similar cases.

170 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 39.

I know you will so well appreciate the motives to these ob-
servations, that I run no risk in being thought officious, and I
therefore freely transmit them, being always,

With due respect and attachment, &c.

TALLEYRAND TO HAMILTON.

Paris, 12 Nov. 17%.

Mon Cher Colonel Hamilton :

Yous recevez en meme terns que cette lettre une reclamation
de M. de Beaumarchais que je confie avec un entier abandon
a vous pour obtenir de l'Amorique une justice qu'il invoque
infructueusement depuis 20 ans. Vous avez apprecie dans le
terns les services qu'il a rendu a votre pays. II pense qu'un
nouvel examen de son affaire conduisoit encore a des resultats
plus favorables. Je n'ai pas craint de lui promettre votre interet
et vos conseils pour la suite de son affaire, il sera heureux pour
lui d'etre defendu par vous : ce sera le plus sur garant de requite
de sa demande. Beaucoup de personnes s'y interessent ici. Je
partage sincerement cet interet et desire vivement pouvoir vous
l'inspirer. Du reste en reclamant vos lumieres et vos conseils dans
le cours de cette affaire. M. cle Beaumarchais n'a garde de vous
demander les demarches qu'elle pourra entrainer ; c'est de dinger
qu'il vous prie : il doit s'en remettre pour toute la partie active
a M. Sterret qu'il sait que vous estimez, et a qui son intention est
d'offrir un interet proportionne au succes de la reclamation.

Quoique je suis depuis deux mois en France, le pays est encore
bien nouveau pour moi ; je passe mon tems a l'etudier — voila au
vrai ce que j'y fais et pas autre chose. A mon arrivee les papiers
publics francais at anglais se sont amuse's a beaucoup prononcer
mon nom, a me supposer des vues-meme des occupations: de
tout cela il n'y a pas un mot de vrai — il faut savoir la langue
d'un pays, avant d'oser y parler et j'en suis encore bein loin.

On ma beaucoup quustionne" sur l'Amerique au moment de

Mr. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 171

raon arrive", j'ai repondu, comme j'y le devais, et en des termes
que, je crois, vous auraient convenu. Je n'ai pas manque sur tout
de dire que je ne croyais point a l'eloignment des Americains pour
les Francois, quand merae cet eloignment 6xisterait il n'y aurait
rien de plus naturel d'apres la conduite folle et audacieuse des
agents de la France qui s'etaient to uj ours montres l'ennemis de
votre gouvernment.

Adieu, — clier Colonel Hamilton. En reclamant vos bons
offices pour M. de Beaumarchais j'use avec toute confiance du
droit que me donne l'amitie que vous m'avez toujours montn'e.
Vous m'avez promis de disposer de moi dans toutes les occasions
■ — je vous sorame de votre promesse pour vous et pour vos amis.

Soyez assez bien pour presenter mes hommages respectueuses
a Madame Hamilton; me s'appeller au souvenir de votre fa-
mille, et faire mes meillieurs compliments a MM. Seton, Nic. Low,
Hammond. Votre petit Jean, a t'il toujours autant de genie?
Vous vous souviendrez toujours, j'espere, que vous m'avez
promis de m'envoyer dans quelques annes votre fils aine pour
lui faire faire son voyage de France.

Je vous renouvelle, cher Colonel Hamilton, l'assurance des
sentiments d'amitie et de respect.

Avec lesquels, j'ai l'honneur d'etre,

Votre, &c.

Ch. Mau. Talleyrand.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 12th Nov., 1796.

My Dear Sir:

In due time, and in good order, I received your letters dated
the 4th, 5th, and 10th inst., and shall be mindful of their contents.

What construction do you put upon the information received

through the assistant of Dr. B ? and what notice, if any,

should it meet with noiv, or hereafter, if application should be
made for leave, or the event take place without?

172 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

Having some time since called upon the different Secretaries
for such matters (within their respective departments) as required
to be communicated to Congress at the opening of the session,
the inclosed papers are from two of them ; one has given a shape
to the ideas. From the Treasury Department I have received
nothing yet, and presume nothing will come from the Secretary
of it, except such matters as are of the fiscal kind, founded upon
facts and statements.

The Secretary of "War has closed his notes, or draft, with a
communication, a declaration, and an invocation, which I had no
intention of introducing, if such sentiments could be avoided
with that decent respect which is due to such members of both
houses as have been uniform and steady in their support of those
measures of government, which I have thought the interest and
welfare of this country required, and accordingly recommended.

The reasons which have operated a reluctance in my mind to
touch on this subject at the ojjejiing of the session, are two — first,
that it might be supposed it was introduced for the purpose of a
complimentary notice of the event, by those who might feel a
disposition to offer it ; and, secondly, that it might not embarrass
others who had rather be silent ; much less put it in the power
of a third set, to oppose (if it should be attempted) sentiments of
this sort in the answer to the speech.

These being my reasons — judge of their force. If they out-
weigh what may be considered as indifference, slight, or disre-
spectful in me towards the body to whom the address is made,
let them prevail. If not, adopt in whole, or in part, or new-
model altogether to your liking, the sentiments or expressions of
Mr. McHenry.

Among the things noted in my memorandums, and not to be
found in the inclosures, is an intimation to this effect, viz. : that
from the best information I have been able to obtain, and from
the best view I have of the general system of European politics,
and of the state of matters in the Mediterranean in particular,
our commerce in that quarter will always be upon a precarious
establishment, unless a protecting force is given to it. If Con-
gress, in their investigation of the subject, should coincide in this

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 173

opinion, it will rest with their wisdom to decide whether that
trade in particular is of sufficient importance to countenance the
expense of its protection. How much beyond this to extend the
view towards a navy, in the present uncertain state of our fiscal
concerns, merits consideration. My own sentiments lead strongly
to the means of commencement.

This last article, in addition to the several matters contained
in the inclosures, and what will naturally flow from the texts
mentioned in your letter, together with a general reference to
the proper officers for estimates, papers, &c, alluded to in the
speech, will comprehend every thing that has occurred to me, as
necessary to be mentioned at the opening of the session ; and I
would thank you much for letting me have the whole as early in
next week as your convenience will permit — at any rate on
Saturday — with your opinion on the propriety of giving Con-
gress a full statement relatively to the situation of our affairs

with France, as suggested in my letter of the ■ instant.

With affectionate regard,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

P. S. I was in the very act of closing this letter when yours
of yesterday's date came to hand ; due consideration shall be
given to the contents of it.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Philadelphia, November 17th, 1796.

Dear Sir:

You must feel interested in knowing how our affairs stand
with France ; I give you a summary of them.

The note to Colonel Pickering contains a summary of all the
complaints of France, since the commencement of the present
war. They are as follow.

174 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

That the courts of the United States have taken cognizance
of prizes to French vessels.

That the treaty has been misconstrued by permitting the ad-
mission of British ships which have at some time made prizes of
French vessels. Mr. Adet's construction is, that a British ship,
which at any time or in any place has made a prize, ought to be
denied asylum.

Complaints are made of the proclamation of neutrality, and
of the promptness with which the President requested Congress
to enact laws for preserving our neutrality. The questions pro-
posed by the President before Genet's arrival are recited at
length, and commented on as evidences of unfriendliness to
France.

Lists of almost all the particular cases respecting privateers,
&c, are made out, and the decisions of the Executive censured.

It is said, that the government has manifested partiality
against France, by the alacrity which marked its conduct, in
enforcing the laws against them, and by tardiness in prosecuting
the British.

That the American government deceived France in respect to
Mr. Jay's mission.

That the treaty with Great Britain is a violation of the treaty
with France, is equivalent to a treaty of alliance, and ought not
to have been made during the war.

A fulfilment of the 11th article of our treaty with France is
required, which stipulates that powers granted to other nations
shall become common; this, Mr. Adet says, will justify the
French in taking British property on board American ves-
sels, and in extending contraband as defined by the British
treaty.

For these reasons, the commercial relations founded on treaty
are to be respected until the governmznt returns to itself. Never-
theless the French nation regards the people as its friends.

The people, in a declamatory rhapsody, are directly addressed
in this style, " 0 ye Americans !" An appeal is made to their pas-
sions ; the injuries of the British during the last war are recount-
ed, and the assistance of the French nation extolled. It is said,

JEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 175

that the suspension of the minister's functions is not to be re-
garded as an act of hostility, but of just resentment against the gov-
ernment. When the government returns to itself, the French will
forget the injury.

France is said to be terrible to its enemies, butvmagnanimous
to its friends, quick to resent injuries, but easily appeased.

The Executive and. Mr. Jay are treated with personal in-
dignity.

On the whole this is by far the most bold attempt to govern
this country which has been made ; it is necessary to come to
issue. Measures to prevent any panic or dissension of the public
opinion are necessary. We have the right of the question, but
whether we shall be overruled by force, will partly depend on
the spirit of the people, partly on the issue of the campaign in*
Italy and Germany.

I am ever yours,

Oliver Wolcott.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Dec. 8th, 1796.

Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of December 6th. The warrant
for the sum due to the Bank of New- York was issued punctually.
By some neglect or accident in the Treasurer's office, it remained
undischarged. I have taken measures for the payment.

By a letter from Mr. Wilkes, I find that the bank claim a
payment of interest by way of discount on the 200,000 dollars
continued on loan on the security of a deposit of stock. This
was not understood by me, nor does it appear a reasonable con-
dition. I will, however, take measures to prevent any disadvan-
tage to the bank from the misconception of what was their con-
struction.

The loan of 200,000 dollars has really operated as an advance
by the Branch Bank, and has been no other relief than as it

176 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

enabled me to assist the bank here in a critical moment. These
institutions have all been mismanaged ; I look upon them with
terror. They are at present the curse, and, I fear, they will
prove the ruin of the government. Immense operations depend
on a trifling capital fluctuating between the coffers of the differ-
ent banks. At present business in this city is on the point of
stagnation.

I will thank you to inform the president of the New-York
Bank, or any other confidential person, that they may rest assured
of as full and cordial assistance in any pressure of their affairs,
as shall be in my power.

I think, however, that they must principally rely on sales of
stock, and, in my opinion, any sacrifice ought to be preferred to
a continuance of temporary expedients. In the present state of
the Treasury anticipated payments are not practicable.

It is matter of importance that the proxies for electing direc-
tors, should not be placed in improper hands. Some attention to
this will be useful, if you find it convenient, without exciting
suspicions of treasury influence.

The Treasury of New-York might have a number of votes,
which would be useful.

Perhaps intimations from the Bank of New-York had best to
come through you. They will be confidential.

The President will lay the correspondence with France since
Genet's time, before Congress. A letter is preparing by Colonel
Pickering to Mr. Pinckney, in answer to Adet.

Tom Payne has published a book against the President, con-
taining the most infamous calumnies. It is a systematical mea-
sure of France to destroy the public confidence in the friends of
government, or " Washington Faction."

The question whether our commerce is or is not to be attacked
depends entirely on the military operations in Germany and
Italy.

If you will part with the Reports of the British Commission-
ers of Accounts, I shall be glad to purchase them. The first
volume is with you, the second and third are here. I shall be
glad to have the book soon, with a bill including Gallatin's work.

.Kt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 17?

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Nov. 19th, 1796.

Sir:

I duly received your letter of the 12th instant. My avoca-
tions have not permitted me sooner to comply with your desire.
I have looked over the papers, and suggested alterations and cor-
rections ; and I have also numbered the paragraphs, I., II., III.,
&c, in the order in which it appears to me eligible they should
stand in the speech.

I thought, upon full reflection, you could not avoid an allu-
sion to your retreat, in order to express your sense of the sup-
port of Congress, but that the simplest manner of doing it was to
be preferred. A paragraph is offered accordingly.

I believe the commencement of a navy ought to be contem-
plated. Our fiscal concerns, if Congress please, can easily be
rendered efficient ; if nof, 'tis their fault, and ought not to prevent
any suggestion which the interest of the country may require.

The paragraph in your letter respecting our Mediterranean
commerce may well be incorporated in this part of the commu-
nication.

You will observe a paragraph I have framed contemplates a
full future communication of our situation with France. At
present it seems to me that this will be effected in the following
mode.

Let a full reply to Mr. Adet's last communication be made,
containing a particular review of our conduct and motives from
the commencement of the Revolution. Let this be sent to Mr.
Pinckney, to be imparted to the Directory ; and let a copy of it,
with a short auxiliary statement of facts, it necessary, be sent to
the House of Representatives. As Mr. Adet has suspended his
functions, I presume no reply can be made to him ; but, not
having seen his paper, I cannot judge.

The crisis is immensely important to the glory of the Presi-
dent, and to the honor and interest of the country.

It is all-important that the reply to Adet's last communication.
F 12

178 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Ma. 39.

to whomsoever made, should be managed with the utmost pos-
sible prudence and skill, so that it may be a solid justification —
an inoffensive remonstrance — the expression of a dignified serious-
ness— reluctant to quarrel, but resolved not to be humbled. The
subject excites the greatest anxiety.
I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully and affectionately, Sir,
Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, November 21st, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

Having written to you on Saturday, the 11th instant (accom-
panying it with inclosures), without hearing any thing from you
in the course of last week, or by the mail of this day, I begin to
have uneasy sensations for the fate of my letter. To this cause,
and to my solicitude to have the papers returned, you must as-
cribe the trouble of receiving this letter.

If my last got safe to your hand, and indisposition, business,
or any other cause should have prevented your looking into the
papers ; I wish, even under these circumstances, that they may
be returned to me immediately ; for I have no copies, and have but
little time to digest, and to put the several matters therein con-
tained into form, that the whole may be revised again and again
before it is presented — among these papers do not forget to place
Sir John Sinclair's letter to me, as I am desirous of giving it an
acknowledgment.

You will perceive by the publication of Mr. Adet's letter to
Colonel Pickering (in Claypool's Gazette of this date), that the
French government are disposed to play a high game. If other
proofs were wanting, the time and indelicate mode and style of the
present attack on the Executive, exhibited in this labored per-
formance, which is as unjust as it is voluminous, would leave no

.Et. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 179

doubt as to the primary object it had in view; but what conse-
quences it may ultimately produce is not so accessible to human
foresight, as it may depend upon various contingencies and
events. I have not seen the writer since my return to this city
— nor is it presumable I shall do it under present circumstances,
unless courted on my part.

The letter of Mr. Adet having been committed to the keep-
ing of Mr. Bache, by him — extracts having already been given
to the public — and other parts promised to be eked out (as would
it is presumed, subserve the purposes in view), induced an opin-
ion that it was best to give the entire letter to the public from
authority, and without delay, that the well-informed part of the
community might judge for themselves.

The necessity for bringing the matter fully before Congress
is now rendered indispensable ; and through that medium it is
presumed it will make its way to the public with proper explan-
ations.

I am, as you know me to be always and sincerely,
Your affectionate

Geo. Washington.

P. S. — Since writing the above, your letter of the 19th, with
its inclosures, have been sent to me — accept my thanks for them.
On account of the other matter contained in this letter I forward
it — being written. Your sentiments in this interesting crisis will
always be thankfully received.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

November 22d, 179G.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your note, sending me Acid's letter. The
present is, in my opinion, as critical a situation as our govern-
ment has been in ; requiring all its prudence, all its wisdom, all
its moderation, all its firmness.

180 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

Though the thing is now passed, I do not think it useless to
say to you, that I was not well pleased with the Secretary of
State's answer to Adet's note communicating the order respecting
neutral vessels. There was something of hardness, and epigram-
matic sharpness in it. Neither did I think the position true, that
France had no right to inquire respecting the affair of seamen.
I am of opinion, that whenever a neutral power suffers liberties
to be taken with it, by a belligerent one, which turns to the
detriment of the other belligerent party, as the acquiring strength
by impressing our seamen, there is a good ground of inquiry,
demanding candid explanation.

My opinion is, that our communications should be calm,
reasoning, and serious, showing steady resolution more than feel-
ing, having force in the idea rather than in the expression.

I am very anxious that our government should do right on
the present occasion.

My ideas are these :

As Adet has declared his functions suspended, the reply ought
not to be to him, but, through Mr. Pinckney, to the Directory.

It ought to contain a review of our conduct from the begin-
ing ; noticing our first and full acknowledgment of the Eepublic,
and the danger we run by it. Also the dangers we incurred by
other large interpretations of the treaty, in favor of France,
adverting to the sale of prizes.

It should meet all the suggestions of the minister, correct his
misstatements of facts, and meet, argumentatively, his principles.
Where arguments, already used, are repeated, it ought to be in
a new language, or by quotations in the body of the reply ; not
by reference to other communications annexed, or otherwise,
which embarrass the reading and attention.

It should review, calmly, the conduct of France and her
agents ; pointing out, fully and clearly, the violations of our
rights, and the spirit which was manifested ; but in terms the
most cautious and inoffensive.

It should advert to the policy of moderation towards the
enemies of France, which our situation and that of France, espe-
cially as to maritime power, imposed upon us.

^Et. 3M.J CORRESPONDENCE. 181

It should briefly recapitulate the means of obtaining redress
from Great Britain, employed by our government, and the effects
they have produced.

It should explain why the government could not safely adopt
more expeditious modes, why the Executive could not control the
Judiciary, and should show, that, in effect, the opposite party, as
well as France, suffered the inconveniences of delay.

It should make prominent the consequences upon the peace
and friendship of governments, if all accidental infractions from
situation, from the negligences, &c, of particular officers, are to
be imputed, with severity, to the government itself, and should
apply the remark to the case of the injuries we have suffered, in
different ways, from the officers and agents of France.

It should make prominent two ideas : — The situation in
which we were with Great Britain, prior to the last treaty, so as
to show, that, by the laws of nations, as admitted to us, and
declared to France and the world, prior to that treat}7, all the
things complained of, as resulting from that treaty, previously
existed. And it should dwell on the exception, in that treaty,
of prior treaties.

It should point out strongly, the idea that the inconvenience
at particular junctures of particular stipulations, is no reason for
one party superseding them ; but should intimate, that the
President is willing to review the relations between the two
countries ; and, by a new treaty, if the same shall be approved
by the Senate, to readjust the terms of those relations.

The article in the treaty with France, respecting an admission
of the same privileges which are granted to other powers, should
be examined. This plainly means where there is any concession
of a positive privilege, which the United States were free to re-
fuse ; not where there is a mere recognition of the principles of
the laws of nations.

It should be made prominent, that the United States have
always wished, and still wish, to cultivate the most amicable re-
lations : and are still disposed to evince this disposition, by every
method in their power ; that in what they have said, they mean
only to show, that they have acted with sincerity and good faith ;

182 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

and have rather received than given cause to complain ; that they
have been disposed to make a candid construction of circumstances
which might seem inconsistent, with a friendly conduct in France ;
and claim a similar candor, in the estimate of their situation and
conduct.

There should be an animadversion upon the unfitness of look-
ing beyond the government to the citizens.

And there should be these ideas, properly couched : that the
United States cannot admit, that a just cause of resentment has
been given ; that they appeal from the misapprehension which
dictated this sentiment, to the justice and magnanimity of France,
for a retraction of it, and for meeting them freely in the complete
restoration of a friendly intercourse ; that France will not de-
liberately expect, that they could make a sacrifice of self-respect,
since she must be sensible, that a free people ought, in every
event, to cherish it as a sacred duty, and to encounter, with firm-
ness, every danger and calamity which an attempt to make them
forget it, or degrade them from their independent character, may
involve.

This would be the general complexion of the reply which I
would give. The manner should be extremely cautious, smooth,
even friendly, but yet solemn and dignified.

Yours.

A. H.

The alliance, in its future operation, must be against our in-
terest. The door to escape from it is opened. Though we ought
to maintain with good faith our engagements, if the conduct of
the other party releases us, we should not refuse the release, so
far as we may accept without conipromitting our peace. This
idea is very important.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 183

KING TO HAMILTON".

London, November 30th. 1796.

My Dear Sir:

The archduke having expelled Jourdan and Moreau from
Germany, the parties are in respect to territory in that quarter
where they were when the campaign began. Bonaparte, by the
latest accounts from Italy, is critically circumstanced, and it
seems not improbable, that he likewise will be compelled to re-
tire from Lombardy. The mission of Lord Malmesbury remains
undecided, and though the negotiation is not promising, it does
not appear as desperate as it did a fortnight ago. Paper has en-
tirely ceased as a medium in France ; what their ability is to
prosecute another campaign, you, as well as I can, may conjec-
ture. New projects are to be brought forward in this country, and
if for no other reason than that they are novelties, they will be
hazardous, where the force of habit is stronger than that of rea-
son. The minister's plan is not definitively settled; but enough
is known to authorize a belief that it cannot be approved by the
moneyed men. The 3 per cents are at about 56 per ct. The min-
ister is unwilling to augment the debt, already enormous, by bor-
rowing on such terms. He intends proposing a loan, which is to
be advanced by patriotic capitalists, upon terms more advantage-
ous to the government. What patriotism may do, I cannot say ;
but unless there exists a real conviction in the minds of wealthy
men, that their wealth is in danger, I should suspect that this
virtue, pure and dignified as it is, will in this country prove an
unproductive source when millions are required. It is time to
make peace ; for all sides are weary with the war. We most sin-
cerely desire it, since peace alone will afford us the tranquillity
we wish, and ought to enjoy.

1 do not think it prudent to write my opinions, so far as I
have formed them, concerning certain subjects interesting to our
rights, and respecting which you will naturally wish for informa-
tion from this quarter. The casualties to which letters are liable
require a caution that between friends is unpleasant, and some-

184 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

times inconvenient. You know my opinion respecting this coun-
try. We have often endeavored to explain appearances that we
disliked, and preserve our respect for a nation who have done
much to improve the condition and happiness of mankind. I
still hope that I have not been deceived, and that experience will
prove that the opinions of those from whom we differed were, as
we believed them, partial and erroneous.

"We are anxious to hear the result of the Presidential election
— much, very much will depend upon that event.

Farewell ; yours very sincerely, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

December 6, 1796.

Dear Sir :

The president of the Bank of New- York called upon me
yesterday, and manifested considerable anxiety about the state
of the bank. It seems the course of things lately, and their large
accommodations to the government, have produced a balance
against them in favor of the office of discount at this place,
which has lately called for $100,000 in specie, and it is appre-
hended may speedily call for more.

The president mentioned this situation generally, with only
this view, to show that the bank would probably be under the
necessity of selling the stock pledged with them, if the govern-
ment should not be punctual. It was at the same time declared
that nothing but necessity would lead to any measure inconve-
nient to the government, yet it was thought advisable to admonish
of the probable necessity.

A director, two or three days since, also mentioned to me
that there was a sum of about 26,000 dollars of interest due to
the bank, of which an account had been rendered, but which
was not paid ; adding, that in the present situation every little
would help. Observations like these are of course confidential.

jEt. 39.] CORRESPONDENCE. 185

But the situation requires, and will make it good policy that, if in
your power, you should come to the aid of the Bank of New-
York. It would be wise, if possible, to anticipate a particular
payment. It will be also useful to arrest for a time too free calls
from the office.

Friendly attention and good offices on your part will inspire
confidence, and embolden the bank to assist in future emergen-
cies, and it is very much the policy of the Treasury not to be
exclusively dependent on one institution.

P. S. Let me hear from you on this subject. What is doing
with Adet ?

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

December 8, 1796.

Dear Sir:

The President will lay the correspondence with France, since
Genet's time, before Congress. A letter is preparing by Col.
Pickering to Mr. Pinckney, in answer to Adet.

Tom Paine has published a book against the President, con-
taining the most infamous calumnies. It is a systematic measure
of France to destroy the public confidence in the friends of
government, or " Washington faction." The question whether
our commerce is or is not to be attacked, depends entirely on
the military operations in Germany and Italy.

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON.

Boston, Dec. 9th, 1796.

Dear Sir :

Your letter of 28th of last month I received, and communi-
cated its contents to some of our electors ; a majority of them

186 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

were at first inclined to throw away their votes from Mr. Pinck-
ney, lest he should rise above Adams, but your information as
to Vermont, with some observations made to them, showing the
danger of so doing, decided all but three, who were determined,
upon interested and personal motives, to waste theirs. Several
hours were spent in discussion before they voted ; the result
was — 16 for Adams, 18 for Pinckney, 2 for Governor Johnston,
and 1 for Mr. Elsworth. Several of Adams's particular friends
were very busjr to induce those three to stand firm; they are
extremely alarmed for his safety, and not without reason, if the
other N. E. States have been united for Adams and Pinckney ;
as I expect, the latter will probably get sufficient separate votes
in the Middle and Southern States to bring him in, and if Jef-
ferson's friends shall have despaired of his election before the
day, they may give many votes to Pinckney to exclude Adams,
in which case he may have a large majority. What then is to
be done ? Mr. Adams, and many of his friends, will be very
clamorous. They will swear the union of Pinckney with him
was a trick to prevent his election, and many of us here shall
never again be upon terms with him. He will never forgive
our not being willing to hazard all to serve him. His disposition
will not brook the disappointment ; and he may be hurried bv
his temper to break with every one who preferred the public to
him.

Should he fail, which I expect, some attempts should be
made to conciliate and appease him, or serious inconveniences
may result. It may be well for you and Governor Jay, with the
President, &c, to contemplate the event, and arrange for it.

Your Judge Smith sent letters to some of our electors, and, I
believe, to New Hampshire, soliciting votes for Burr very strongly,
and rather pressing for Jefferson. Mr. Holton received one from
him, and I believe Mr. Gerry also; but Holton was so circum
stanced, he could make no attempts in favor of Burr, who will
not have one vote I presume in N. E.

"We have yet no accounts from New Hampshire, Ehode
Island, or Connecticut.

Should Pinckney be ■ elected, care must be taken early to

/Et. 39. 1 CORRESPONDENCE. 187

guard him against Adet, &c, who have strong hopes, I know, of
attaching him to their views and party. This will remain with
you in the Middle States to effect.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, December 1G: 1796.

I have received, my dear sir, your several letters of the 25th
of August, 10th and 11th of September. You know my senti-
ments towards you too well, to ascribe my delay in answering
them to any other cause than the imperiousness of avocations
with which I could not dispense.

Public opinion, taking the country at large, has continued,
since you left us, to travel on in a right direction, and, I trust,
will not easily deviate from it. You will have seen, before this
reaches you, Mr. Adet's communications. We conjecture, as to
the timing of them, that they were intended to influence the
election of President by the apprehension of war with France.
We suppose also they are designed in the same way to give sup-
port to the partisans of France, and that they have for eventual
object, the placing things in just such a state as will leave France
at liberty to slide easily either into a renewal of cordiality, or an
actual or virtual war with the United States. If the war of
Europe continues, the efforts of France will be likely to be
levelled, as a primary object, against the commerce and credit of
Great Britain, and to injure these she may think it advisable to
make war upon our trade ; forgetting perhaps that the conse-
quence may be, to turn it more entirely into the channels of
Great Britain. These reflections will be obvious to you. I onlv
make them, to apprise you of the view which is taken of the
subject here. Thus far, appearances do not indicate that the
purpose of influencing the country has been obtained. I think,
in the main, the effect has been to impress the necessity of ad-
hering more firmly to the government.

188 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 39.

You need not be told that every exertion, not degrading to us,
will be made to preserve peace with France. Many of the op-
posite party, however they may be pleased with appearances of
ill-humor in France, will not wish it to go to the length of war.
And we shall endeavor to avoid it, in pursuance of our general
plan of preserving peace with all the world. Yet you may
depend that we shall not submit to be dictated to, or to be forced
into a departure from our plan of neutrality, unless to repel an
attack upon us.

Our anxiety has been extreme on the subject of the election
for President. If we may trust our information, which we have
every reason to trust, it is now decided that neither Jefferson nor
Burr can be President. It must be either Adams or Pinckney,
the first most probably. By the throwing away of votes in New-
England, lest Pinckney should outrun Adams, it is not unlikely
that Jefferson will be Vice-President. The event will not a little
mortify Burr. Virginia has given him only one vote.

It was expected of course that the Senate's answer to the
President would be flattering to him. But the speech in the
House of Eepresentatives has been better than was expected.
An address, which I have not seen, but stated by our friends to
be a very good one, has passed the House with only twelve dis-
senting, consisting of the most fiery spirits. The address is not
only generally complimentary to the President, but includes, it
is said, an explicit approbation of his administration, which caused
the division. Edward Livingston is in the minority.

After giving you these consolatory accounts, I am now to dash
the cup a little, by telling you that Livingston is in all probabil-
ity re-elected in this city. The principal cause has been an unac-
ceptable candidate on our part, James Watson. There were four
gentlemen who would certainly have succeeded, but none of
them would accept. In Watson we could not unite opinions.
He was more disagreeable than I had supposed to a large body
of our friends, and yet, after the declining of the persons alluded
to, we could not do otherwise than support him. For he had
gotten a strong hold upon most of the leading mechanics who
act with us.

J&.4©.] CORRESPONDENCE. 189

But in the State at large we shall better our representation,
and I hope for a majority in the House of Eepresentatives. As
an omen of this, there are several new members in Congress from
different States, who hitherto vote with our friends.

The favorable change in the conduct of Great Britain towards
us, strengthens the hands of the friends of order and peace. It is
much to be desired that a treatment in all respects unexception
able from that quarter, should obviate all pretext to inflame the
public mind.

We are laboring hard to establish in this country principles
more and more national, and free from all foreign ingredients, so
that we may be neither "Greeks nor Trojans," but truly Ameri-
cans.

HAMILTON TO WM. SMITH.

1797.

My Dfar Sir :

I received your letter of the — . Though I do not like in some
respects the answer of the House to the speech, yet I frankly
own that I had no objection to see it softened down. For I think
there is no use in hard words — and in public proceedings would
almost always unite the suaviter in modo, with the fortiter in re.

But I must regret that there is no prospect of the fortiter in re.
I perceive clearly that your measures will wear upon the whole
the aspect of resentment, without means or energy sufficient to re-
pel injury. Our country will be first ruined, and then we shall
begin to think of defending ourselves.

I will not enter much into detail, but I will observe that in-
stead of three frigates of 32, I would prefer an increase of the
number of cutters. Surely twenty of these cannot embarrass the
most squeamish, and less than this number will be useless.

But from all I can see you will have no revenue. Overdriven
theory every where palsies the operations of our government,
and renders all rational practice impossible.

190 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

My ideas of revenue would be :

A tax on buildings $1,000,000

Stamp tax, including perfumeries — a per centage on

policies of insurance — on collateral successions to

real and personal estate — on hats— say . . 500,000

5 cents for the worst, 10 for the middling, and 20 for

the best saddle horses 150,000

Salt, so as to make the whole 25 per cent. . . 350,000

$2,000,000
I have explained my ideas of the house tax to Wolcott and
Sedgwick.

It is to take certain criteria of different buildings, and annex
to them ratios, not rates. (What I gave to Sedgwick as rates may
serve as ratios.) Then apportion the tax among the States, and
distribute the quota of each among the individuals according to
ratios. The aggregate of the ratios will represent the quota of
the State — then, as that aggregate is to the sum of the quota, so
will be the sum of the ratios of each building to the tax to be paid
by each individual.

I am told an objection will arise from the negro houses in
the South. Surely there is no impracticability in annexing ratios
to them which will be proportional to their taxable value. This
plan will avoid the worst of all inconveniences — the arbitrary of
valuations ; and will avoid the embarrassment for the present of
a land tax, will be also consistent with expedition. I entertain no
doubt it can be adjusted so as to be free from any material ob-
jection. The smallness of the tax will render any material in-
equality impossible. You cannot compute fewer than 600,000
houses, which at an average would be about a dollar and a half
a house. The proportions of the better houses on the proposed
plan would make the tax fall light on the inferior and country
houses, which is desirable for recommending the first essay, nor
would any house I am persuaded have to pay ten dollars. What
room for serious objection? You then lay a foundation for an
annual million on real property, which will become a permanent
accession to your revenue. Whereas you will feel an endless
embarrassment about agreeing upon any tax on lands.

JEt. 40. j CORRESPONDENCE. lUl

HIGGINSON TO HAMILTON.

Boston, January 12th, 1T'.J7.

Deak Sir:

Your letter of the 20th of last month, I have received. The
election of Mr. Adams seems to be secured with an excess only
of one vote, which is close work indeed. This, while it avoids
the point I before stated to you, will involve another, I fear,
more dangerous and difficult. The blind or devoted partisans
of Mr. Adams, instead of being satisfied with his being elected,
seem to be alarmed at the danger he was in of failing ; and they
have the folly to say, that this danger was incurred wholly by
the arrangement of pushing him and Pinckney together. They
go farther and say, that this arrangement was intended to bring
in Pinckney and exclude him. They affect to believe this to
have been the intention, because the character of Adams for dis-
cernment and independence forbid all hope of influencing the
decisions of the Executive, he being the President; but had
Pinckney been introduced, his pliability would have continued
the influence of a few over the measures of the Executive, which
has been too conspicuous during the present administration. At
the head of this junto, as they call it, they place you and Mr.
Jay, and they attribute the design to him and you of excludiug
Mr. Adams from the chair, which the arrangement alluded to
was intended to effect. They affect also to believe that it is for
the interest of the country to have Mr. Jefferson for Vice-Presi-
dent rather than Pinckney ; that he will serve readily under
Mr. Adams, and will be influenced by and coincide with him.

These sentiments, however foolish and impudent they may
appear, are dealt out freely by some of his particular connec-
tions, who seem to consider the country as made for the man,
and not the man for the country ; and it is believed, that Mr.
Adams himself entertains them, perhaps has communicated them.
Those who know the man, will not be much surprised if he
should himself say the same things when his feelings are up;
and it may happen, that believing thus, he may be cool and dis-

192 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 40

tant towards those whom he ought to be intimate with and con-
sult upon important occasions. With such impressions he may
attach himself to Jefferson, if he conducts with address and
adopts a line of conduct toward his former friends, which will
divide, and may much weaken the federal interest.

I suggest to you this much, perhaps not new, with a view to
prepare you for appearances, which might otherwise alarm some
of our friends who may not expect them ; possibly you may
think of some mode of preventing the inconveniences which
I fear to result from what I apprehend to be Mr. Adams's
feelings.

HAMILTON TO WM. SMITH.

January 19th, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Mrs. De Neufville, widow of Mr. De Neufville, formerly of
Holland, is on her way to Philadelphia to solicit the kind-
ness of Congress in virtue of services rendered the American
cause by her husband. You probably know their history, as
South Carolina was particularly concerned. From what I have
heard, it seems to me her pretensions, on the score of her hus-
band, to the kindness of this country, are strong ; as a distressed
and amiable woman, she has a claim to every body's kindness.

What are you about in Congress ? Our affairs seem to be at
a very critical point with France. We seem to be brought to
the same point with her as we were with Great Britain when
Mr. Jay was sent there. One last effort of negotiation to pro-
duce accommodation and redress, or measures of self-defence.
Have you any thoughts of an embargo ? There may be ere long
a necessity for it. Are you in earnest about the additional reve-
nue 't this is very necessary.

Yours truly, &c.

JEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 193

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

January 20, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I received your late letter in due time. You seem to be of
opinion to defer to a future period the commencement of direct
taxation. I acknowledge I am inclined to lay gently hold of it
now. Leaders of the opposite party favor it now, perhaps, with
no good design. But it will be well to take them while in the
humor, and make them share the responsibility. This will be
the more easy as they are inclined to take the lead. Our exter-
nal affairs are so situated, that it seems to me indispensable to
open new springs of revenue, and press forward our little naval
preparation, and be ready for augmenting it. But, on the whole,
I have always leaned to the opinion that half a million from
direct taxes, was enough to begin with, nor should I have pro-
posed more.

What are we to do with regard to our good allies ? Are we
to leave our commerce a free prey to them ? I hope not. It
seems to me we are even beyond the point at which we were with
Great Britain when Mr. Jay was sent thither, and that something
like a similar plan ought to be pursued; that is, we ought to
make a final effort to accommodate, and then resort to measures
of defence. I believe ere long an embargo on our oivn vessels will
be advisable — to last till the conduct of France changes, or till it
is ascertained it will not change. In the last event, the following
system may be adopted : — to grant special letters of marque, with
authority to repel aggressors and capture assailants; to equip our
frigates ; to arm a number of sloo})s of war of existing vessels to
convoy our merchantmen. This may be a middle term to gene-
ral hostility, though it may slide into the latter. Yet, in this
case, it may be well to let France make the progress. But at all
events we must protect our commerce and save our honor.

As to the balance business, the agitation of the question has
been every way unfortunate. There is not an individual in the
State of New-York who is not profoundly convinced that the
f 13

194 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 40.

settlement was wholly artificial, and as it regarded the rule of
quotaing manifestly unjust, and consequently, that there is no
justice in paying it. I never saw but one mode of getting through
the business, which is for Congress to call for a 'certain sum of
each debtor State annually, say a fiftieth part, declaring that if
not paid, each instalment shall bear interest from the time it be-
comes due, but till then the principal to carry no interest. I
believe the State for harmony's sake would yield to such an
arrangement. It may be said this will be only a nominal pay-
ment. I answer true, but an artificial balance ought only to be
nominally paid. The conduct of some gentlemen in the late
question, has pained me much. It is inconsistent with a tacit
pledge of faith. Every New-Yorker who had any thing to do
with our fiscal arrangements has been personally compromised.

Yours truly.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

January 22d, 1797.

Sir:

The sitting of the court and an uncommon pressure of busi-
ness have unavoidably delayed an answer to your last favor. I
have read with attention Mr. Pickering's letter. It is, in the
main, a substantial and satisfactory paper — will, in all proba-
bility, do considerable good in enlightening public opinion at
home ; and I do not know that it contains any thing which will
do harm elsewhere. It wants, however, in various parts, that
management of expression and suaviter in rnodo which a man
more used to diplomatic communication could have given it, and
which would have been happy if united with its other merits.

I have reflected as maturely as time has permitted on the
idea of an extraordinary mission to France, and, notwithstanding
the objections, I rather incline to it under some shape or other.
As an imitation of what was done in the case of Great Britain, it
will argue to the people equal solicitude. To France it will have

.Et. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 195

a similar aspect (for Pinckney will be considered there as a mere
substitute in ordinary course to Mr. Monroe), and will in some
degree soothe her pride. The influence on party, if a man in
whom the opposition has confidence is sent, will be considerable,
in the event of non-success ; and it will be to France a bridge
over which she may more easily retreat.

The best form of the thing, in my view, is a commission in-
cluding three persons, who may be called commissioners plenipo-
tentiary and extraordinary. Two of the three should be Mr. Madi-
son and Mr. Pinckney ; a third may be taken from the northern
States, and I know of none better than Mr. Cabot ; who, or any
two of whom, may be empowered to act.

Mr. Madison will have the confidence of the French and of
the opposition. Mr. Pinckney will have something of the same
advantage in an inferior degree. Mr. Cabot, without being able
to prevent their doing what is right, will be a salutary check
upon too much Gallicism, and his real commercial knowledge
will supply their want of it. Besides that, he will enjoy the
confidence of all the friends of the administration. His dispo-
sition to preserve peace is ardent and unqualified.

This plan, too, I think, will consist with all reasonable atten-
tion to Mr. Pinckney's feelings.

Or (which, however, I think less eligible) Mr. Madison and
Mr. Pinckney only may be joint commissioners, without a third
person.

Mr. Cabot, if appointed without being consulted, will, I think,
certainly go. If not, the other two may act without him.

The power to the commissioners will be, to adjust amicably
mutual compensations, and the compensations which may be due
by either party ; and to revise and remodify the political and
commercial relations of the two countries.

In the exercise of their power, they must be restrained by
precise instructions to do nothing inconsistent with our other ex-
isting treaties, or with the principles of construction of those with
France adopted by our executive government, as declared in its
public acts and communications; and nothing to extend our
political relations in respect to alliance, but to endeavor to get rid

196 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40-

of the mutual guarantee in the treaty, or, if that shall be imprac-
ticable, to stipulate specific succors in lieu of it, as so many troops,
so many ships, so much money, &c. ; strictly confining the casus
foederis to future defensive wars, after a general and complete paci-
fication terminating the present war; and defining offensive war
to be, where there is either a full declaration of war against the
ally, or first commission of actual hostility on the territory or
property of the ally by invasion or capture. As to commerce,
with the above restrictions, there may be full discretion. These
are merely inaccurate outlines.

Unless Mr. Madison will go, there is scarcely another charac-
ter that will afford advantage.

Cogent motives of public utility must prevail over personal
considerations. Mr. Pinckney may be told, in a private letter
from you, that this is an unavoidable concession to the pressure
of public exigency and the state of internal parties.

With true respect and affectionate attachment,

I have the honor to be, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 22d January, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 19th inst. was received yesterday. From
the general impression on my mind relative to M. de Neuville's
claim on the justice of this country, a delay or a refusal to ad-
minister it would be hard ; but I must add that I am too little
acquainted with the particulars to form a correct opinion, and
were it otherwise, I do not see how I could, with propriety, ap-
pear directly or indirectly in the business, as I do not recollect
having had any agency therein. The numberless applications of
this sort which are made to me (often in the dernier ressort,) with-
out the means of relief, are very distressing to my feelings.

The conduct of France towards the United States is, accord-

JEt. 40.1 CORRESPONDENCE. 197

J i

ing to my ideas of it, outrageous beyond conception : — not to be
warranted by her treaties with us ; by the law of nations; by any
principle of justice; or even by a regard to decent appearances.

From considerations such as these something might have
been expected ; but on her professions of friendship and loving-
kindness towards us I built no hope ; but rather supposed they
would last as long and no longer than it would accord with their
interest to bestow them ; or found it would not divert us from
the observance of that strict neutrality which we had adopted
and were persevering in.

In a few days there will be published a statement of facts in
a letter, with reference to General Pinckney ; containing full an-
swers to all the charges exhibited in Mr. Adet's notes, against the
conduct of this government. After reading them with attention
I will thank you for your sentiments thereon, fully and frankly
communicated ; and what you think ought further to be attempt-
ed to preserve this country in peace, consistently with the respect
which is due to ourselves ?

In some of the gazettes, and in conversation also, it is sug-
gested that an envoy extraordinary ought to be sent to France ;
but is not General Pinckney gone there already for the express
purpose of explaining matters, and removing inquietudes ? With
what more could another be charged ? What would that gentle-
man think of having a person treading on his heels by the time
he had arrived in Paris, when the arguments used to induce him
to go there are all that could be urged to influence the other ? —
and where is the character to be had — admitting the necessity — in
all respects acceptable and qualified for such a trust ?

The sooner you can give me your sentiments on these queries,
the more pleasing they will be to

Dear sir, your sincere, affectionate

Geo. Washington.

198 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

Jan. 23d, 1707.

Dear Sir:

I remember that very early in the day, and prior to any act
of Great Britain, the French passed a decree violating, with regard
to all the neutral powers, the principle of free ships, free goods,
and I think making provisions liable to seizure. This decree
was afterwards rescinded as to America — then again revived, and
then again revoked. I want copies of these decrees for a particu-
lar purpose useful to the government, and presuming they must
be on the files of your department, you will oblige me much by
letting me have copies as speedily as may be convenient.
With respect and true esteem, &c.

AMES TO HAMILTON.

(in confidence.)

Philadelphia, January,26, 1797.

Dear Sir :

My last was written hastily and under some impressions of
the moment which I had not time to unfold. The close, respect-
ing your taking a seat in the next house (to be elected), would
pass for an awkward compliment, if you did not know me (and
yourself) too well for such an interpretation.

You desire an inside view of our stage, I begin with the out-
side. Our relations with France are serious. All the French
party seem to expect and desire an extra envoy, which is an
objection — as probably they hope thus to soothe the resentments
so tardily roused against France, to exhibit a show of supplication
on our part, and to ground some new delusive connection on the
adjustment of existing complaints. On the other hand, it would
be a literal and exact adherence to the late precedent in regard to

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 199

Great Britain ; it might afford a pretext for the French to relax ;
and in case they should not, animate and unite opinions for the ne-
cessary result. But as Mr. Pinckney is gone instructed on this very
subject, the course adopted is, I believe, to rely on his mission
and to send an extra envoy. I wish you would direct your most
mature thoughts to the subject, and if you should not approve
the negative, you ought (permit me to say) choose }7our own way
of bringing your sentiments into consideration in the proper
place. Should it not be an object to negotiate an abrogation of
the clause which guarantees the West India possessions to France ?
However vague it may be, and valid or urgent as our excuses
might seem, the clause would embarrass government and furnish
a text for partisans to raise clamors in case of a future war (the
United States being at peace), and our noncompliance with a
demand for its execution.

More taxes are necessary ; and when trade is so much dis-
turbed by war, and will be not much less affected by peace, land
taxes seem to be the only safe resource. But my creed is, that
three things ought first to concur — to systematize and perfect the
collection of our internal revenues ; to extend them to the most
eligible and productive new objects ; and to prepare the public
mind for the tax on lands, only to the amount of the deficiency.
Neither of these has been effected. The dread of the latter is at
the same time the best means of getting more indirect taxes, and
of conciliating the people to a land tax. It is necessity, the per-
ception of which will produce salutary efforts in the first instance,
and a reasonable acquiescence in the next. A tax on salt is a
good one, but it would be hard to carry through ; and its foes
would combine with some of its advocates to refuse the draw-
back on salted fish, called a bounty — which is not to be admitted.
Snuff is condemned, as vexatious and trivial ; that on auctions as
bad in principle. The license tax, extended to taverns, and so
arranged as in part to augment with the sales of the retailer,
would be productive. To effect this last idea, how would it
answer to rate licenses for three gallons very low ; for more, and
under twenty, still higher? If a separate license by the same
dealer for Madeira, Sherry, and Port, still higher for each, as he

200 H A M II, T () N ' S W O R K S . [Mr. 40.

must be a dealer of capital? To abolish the distinction in favor
of home-made spirits, and to levy it on the sales of all spirits and
wines ? Equality would not be produced, but inequality, as it
now exists, would be somewhat diminished.

The public should also see a plan or mode of levying a direct
tax pass into a law. The vote for the actual levy of a tax to be
suspended till the next session, and then to be for the deficiency.
The moderation of the tax would, on experiment, destroy and
disappoint the prejudices against it; and the preparation of opin-
ions would be the best possible. The aversion would seem to
have resisted, delayed, and diminished the evil to the utmost.

The anti gents make their calculations, no doubt, that a direct
tax will sharpen popular feelings — augment clamors against the
debt, bank, &c, — enfeeble and discredit the other species of rev-
enue, especially internal — perhaps they expect favoritism in the
assessments.

Our proceedings smell of anarchy. "We rest our hopes on
foolish and fanatical grounds — on the superior morals and self-
supporting theories of our age and country ; on human nature
being different from what it is, and better here than any where
else. We cannot think it possible our government should stop,
or that there is the least occasion to provide the means for it to
go on. Internal revenues demand system and vigor. The col-
lection must be watched and enforced. We want officers, courts,
habits of acquiescence in our country, and the principles in Con-
gress that would begin to form any of these. The western coun-
try scarcely calls itself dependent on the Union. France is ready
to hold Louisiana. The thread of connection is slender, and that
event, I fear, would break it. Yet we disband regiments.

Our trade has spoliations to endure from France and Great
Britain, yet we are not willing to abandon or protect it as others
do, by a naval force. An European would be ready to believe we
were in jest in our politics, or, that newspaper declamation, and
the frothy nonsense of town-meeting speeches, comprise the prin-
ciples of our conduct. For I am obliged to observe, even good
men adopt errors or pursue truth with a spirit not much more
friendly to order and stability in government, than their adver-

AW. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 201

saries. Who, for instance, can think without alarm on the fre-
quency and seductive nature of the disgraceful sequestration and
anti-credit motions in the House? Facts of this vile nature do
not occur in other countries, or, if they do, they precede and
create convulsion. Here they are received as civilly as if infamy
did not form an atmosphere about them, contaminating all who
breathe in it. We are formed but of late for independent sove-
reignty. Experience has not laid on her lessons with birch, and
we forget them. Our whole system is little removed from simple
democracy. What we call the government is a phantom, as long
as the democrats prevail in the House. The heads of depart-
ments are head clerks. Instead of being the ministry, the organs
of the executive power, and imparting a kind of momentum to
the operation of the laws, they are precluded of late even from
communicating with the House, by reports. In other countries,
they may speak as well as act. We allow them to do neither.
We forbid even the use of a speaking-trumpet ; or, more prop-
erly, as the Constitution has ordained that they shall be dumb,
we forbid them to explain themselves by signs. Two evils, ob-
vious to you, result from all this. The efficiency of the govern-
ment is reduced to its minimum — the proneness of a popular
body to usurpation is already advancing to its maximum ; com-
mittees already are the ministers ; and while the House indulges
a jealousy of encroachment on its functions, which are properly
deliberative, it does not perceive that these are impaired and
nullified by the monopoly as well as the perversion of informa-
tion, by these very committees. The silly reliance of our coffee-
house and Congress prattlers on the responsibility of members to
the people, &c, &c, is disgraced by every page of the history of
popular bodies. We expect, confidently, that the House of Eep-
resentatives will act out of its proper character — for if it should
act according to it, we are lost.

Our government will be, in fact, a mere democracy, which
has never been tolerable nor long tolerated.

Our proceedings evince the truth of these speculative opin-
ions. No one was furnished with proper information. Nobody
was answerable for what he presumed to give.

202 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

The committee of ways and means has not, I am told, writ-
ten a page these two years. It collects the scraps and fritters of
facts at the Treasury, draws crude hasty results tinctured with
localities. These are not suppported by any formed plan of co-
operation with the members, and the report calls forth the pride
of all the motion-makers. Every subject is suggested in debate,
every popular ground of apprehension is invaded. There is
nothing to enlighten the House or to guide the public opinion.
All this has happened. 1 am now preaching daily to those few
who will hear me rail, and endeavoring to form a common senti-
ment; that something must be done — that it must begin and
be approved at the Treasury — that the Antis will exult in our
shame, if we forbear to arrange an efficient plan, &c. This is
in train, not very far advanced, nor with good omens. It is as
to our projected combination, you will perceive, strictly a secret
My own wishes are to extend our indirect taxes and to pass a
bill prescribing the mode of levying a land tax, holding up the
idea in debate at the time of a small amount only. But the
apathy and inefficiency of our body is no secret to you. We
are generally in a flat calm, and when we are not we are near
sinking in a tempest. When a sovereign convention engrosses
the whole power, it will do nothing or some violence that is
worse. Sooner or later individuals and public bodies will
act out their principles ; ours are, I fear, essentially more
democratic than republican, which latter are alone fit for our
country. We think the executive power is a mere pageant of
the representative body — a custos rotulorum, or master of cere-
monies. We ourselves are but passive instruments, whenever
the sovereign people choose to speak for themselves, instead of
our speaking for them.

The momentum imparted to our political machine is weak
and the resistance strong. Faction appears of course in such a
state of things. This I confess naturally excites a counter influ-
ence, but the power even of party seems to be dissipated. We
are broken to pieces. Some able man of the first order of abili-
ties, and possessing the rare union of qualities that will fit him
to head a party, is wanting. For want of such a leader, many

Mr. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 203

who would do good, are useless. My natural temperament unfits
me for a seat where I cannot bear to sit quite inactive. Al-
though such efforts as I can make will be unavailing.

No session of Congress has exhibited such a dissipation of
the party which has been arrayed in support of the government;
this will be some excuse for my forebodings of the decline of our
affairs.

One might have hoped that government would find in party
all the combination and energy that is excluded from its organ-
ization. I see, however, that this auxiliary, unless compacted
together by the violent action of the rival party, will subdivide
or fall into inaction ; and even when roused to the utmost, it is
in need of a clear-sighted guide.

As this is the state of our politics, what is to be done ? The
friends of the government have increased within two or three
years in numbers and zeal ; but few of them know or could
be made to believe that its fair outside conceals such alarming
weakness.

Your truly, &c.

Fisher Ames.

P. S. I understand bank shares have been lately attached by
law process. This strikes my mind as a very anarchical pro-
ceeding.

Porcupine is a writer of smartness, and might do more good
if directed by men of sense and experience. His ideas of an
intimate connection with Great Britain justly offend correct
thinkers, and still more the multitude. He proposes a new daily
paper, a business much overdone. Its circulation out of the city
will not be great. Would not a paper once or twice a week,
exclusively political, answer better ? Please let Webster have
the paragraph for his Minerva.

204 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 30, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I am sorry to have so long delayed an answer to your letter
of the 23d, but we have been universally occupied, and the de-
crees you referred to, were not readily found. That of the 28th
of May, 1793, I have now discovered in a printed volume of the
proceedings of the Convention for that month ; so I now inclose
you copies.

1st. Of the decree of May 9th, 1793, violating our treaty by
rendering neutral vessels laden with provisions liable to capture,
as well as enemy's property on board neutral vessels.

2d. Of the decree of 23d May, repealing the former in re-
spect to American vessels.

3d. Of the decree of the 28th of May, reversing the last de-
cree.

4th. Of the decree of July 1st, 1793, repealing that of the
28th May.

These appear to be all the decrees referred to in your letter,
but there must have been a subsequent one, alike violating our
treaty, which Mr. Monroe forbore to ask the repeal of; lest, as he
said, the French government should demand a performance of
this guarantee. Yet the many claims in behalf of American
merchants, whose properties had been captured, were to be made
on the principle, that the decree in question was a violation of
our treaty. After this matter was pressed upon him by Ean-
dolph (as well as I recollect), he urged the repeal which was
passed January 4th, 1795. If this decree, and that which it re-
peals, will be useful to you, copies shall be furnished.

It appears probable from the tenor of some of Gouverneur
Morris's letters, that the decree of 9th May, and 28th of the same
month, were passed (at least the latter) to answer the views of
the captors of certain vessels taken before the 9th of May, and
that of May 28th, specially to enable the captors to hold the ship
Lawrence.

I am with great and sincere respect, &e.

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 205

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, February 6, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I duly received your letter of the 23d of January, with its
inclosure, for which I am much obliged to you. I have read it
with great pleasure. It is a substantial, satisfactory paper;
will do good in this country ; and as to France, I presume events
will govern there.

Is it not proper to call upon the merchants to furnish your
department with statements and proofs of the spoliations which
we have suffered from the French, as was done when the English
were in their mischievous career ?

Yours with true esteem, &c.

I received your other letter with certain inclosures.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

February 10tb, 1797.

Dear Sir:

If I recollect right, Chancellor Livingston, while Secretary of
Foreign Affairs, reported a censure upon our commissioners who
made the peace with Great Britain, for not obeying their instruc-
tions with regard to France. Will you favor me in confidence
with the real state of this business ? I was at the time a member
of Congress. It was immediately on the arrival of the provisional

articles.

I hope, my dear sir, effectual measures are taking to bring us
to some issue with France to ascertain whether her present plan
is to be persisted in or abandoned. For, surely, our commerce
ought not to be thus an undefended prey.

Yours truly, &c.

206 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

HAMILTON TO KING.

February 15th, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

Give me leave to recall to your recollection and acquaintance
Mr. De Galon the bearer of this, who, as he informs me, goes to
Europe on private business. I need not observe that he is an
interesting man, as you know all his titles to the attention which
your situation permits you to afford.

You must not think I forget you, because I do not write (for
this is only my third letter). I am overwhelmed in professional
business, and have scarcely a moment for any thing else.

You will have learned the terrible depredations which the
French have committed upon our trade in the West Indies on the
declared principle of intercepting our whole trade with the ports
of her enemies. This conduct is making the impression which
might be expected, though not with that electric rapidity which
would have attended similar treatment from another power. The
present session of Congress is likely to be very unproductive. That
body is in the situation which we foresaw certain cmfc'-executive
maxims would bring them to.

Mr. Adams is President, Mr. Jefferson Vice-President. Our
Jacobins say, they are well pleased, and that the lion and the
lamb are to lie down together. Mr. Adams's personal friends
talk a little in the same way. "Mr. Jefferson is not half so ill a
man as we have been accustomed to think him. There is to be a
united and a vigorous administration." Skeptics like me quietly
look forward to the event, willing to hope, but not prepared to
believe. If Mr. Adams has vanity 'tis plain a plot has been laid
to take hold of it. "We trust his real good sense and integrity
will be a sufficient shield.

Yours affectionately, &c.

JEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 207

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, Feb. Gth, 1797.

Dear Sir :

I have had the pleasure to receive your letter of the 16th of
December, and I need not express the satisfaction which the in-
formation that it contained afforded me. The probable termina-
tion of the election of President, the general temper of the coun-
try, and the effect likely to be produced by Mr. Adet's notes, are
such as I had not only hoped but expected. If by prudence and
firmness, which have hitherto kept us out of this extraordinary
and desolating war, we shall be able to maintain the public peace
and national honor, we shall not only increase our reputation as
a wise people, but we shall moreover establish a precedent of in-
estimable worth for future times of trouble and embarrassment.
Nothing can exceed the applause that is here given to our gov-
ernment, and no American who has not been in England can
have a just idea of the admiration expressed among all parties of
General Washington. It is a common observation, that he is not
only the most illustrious, but also the most meritorious character
that has hitherto appeared. The king is without doubt a very
popular character among the people of this nation. It would be
saying very much, to affirm that next to him General Washing-
ton is the most popular character among them ; and yet I verily
believe this to be the fact.

I mention these circumstances, not only because it will give
you, as it has afforded me, much pleasure to hear them men-
tioned, but also because they show a more liberal manner of
thinking and speaking respecting us, and a more rational esti-
mate of our affairs, than formerly existed. Much credit is due
to Mr. Jay on this score, who, we thought, would do honor and
be of advantage to our country, but who has done much more
than I could have imagined, had I not seen the clearest proofs of
his success. He had great difficulties to encounter ; he overcame
many of them; some still exist, and when they will be sur-
mounted I am unable to say. Time and patience are necessary

208 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

to form a satisfactory opinion how far we shall finally be able to
agree. In the main, our affairs here are in a good train. The
treaty, I think, will be fairly and fully executed. You remem-
ber the opinion given by certain gentlemen upon the construc-
tion of the seventh article of the treaty. We have experienced
embarrassments on this subject, and for several weeks the busi-
ness of the commissioners was entirely at a stand, the advocate
of this government having denied the power to examine any
questions that had been decided by the High Court of Appeals.
The question was delicate ; the pride, and, as it was alleged, the
importance of men of rank and influence, were almost enlisted
against our pretensions, and a little imprudence might have
thrown the business into the worst possible situation. This did
not happen. With moderation, caution, and a conciliatory mode
of proceeding, these difficulties have been entirely removed, and
all is now proceeding in a satisfactory manner. The result of
several conferences has been, after the manifestation of much
candor and fairness on the part of this government, a direction to
the British commissioners to unite with ours, and to proceed to
hear and decide every question that shall be brought before them
according to the provisions of the treaty, which, it was added, it
was the duty of the commissioners to consider and interpret.
They have accordingly decided a case of considerable conse-
quence, which is that of the Pattersons of Baltimore. A ship
and cargo belonging to them had been captured and condemned
in the West Indies. This sentence had been affirmed in the
High Court of Appeals, and a memorial in behalf of Pattersons
was preferred to the commissioners for compensation for their
loss and damages. The commissioners have pronounced (Doctor
Nicholl only dissenting of a full board) that they have jurisdic-
tion of the cause, and that upon its merits the Pattersons are en-
titled to full and complete compensation for their loss and dam-
ages, to be paid according to the provisions of the treaty.

By letters received to day from Paris, I learn the unpleasant
information, that Gen. Pinckney was on the 28th ult. ordered by
the Directory to leave Paris, and that he intended to depart for
Holland, where he will wait the orders of our government on the

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 209

31 st. I cannot fully account for this step, after the irresolution
that for some time has existed. Whether it is to be ascribed to
information which has been thought sufficient to satisfy the Direc-
tory of the result of the election for President, or whether it is to
be attributed to the late astonishing victories of Buonaparte,
which have literally destroyed an army of 40,000 Austrians, I am
uncertain ; perhaps both have contributed to this extraordinary
step.

Yours very sincerely,

Eufus King.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

February 26th, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

The present inimitable course of our public affairs proves me
to be a very bad politician, so that I am afraid to suggest any
idea that occurs to me. Yet I will give over my timidity and
communicate for your consideration a reverie which has struck
me.

It is a fact that the resentment of the French government is
very much levelled at the actual President. A change of the
person (however undesirable in other respects) may give a change
to the passion, and may also furnish a bridge to retreat over.
This is a great advantage to a new President, and the most ought
to be made of it. For it is much our interest to preserve peace,
if we can with honor, and if we cannot, it will be very import-
ant to prove that no endeavor to do it has been omitted.

"Were I Mr. Adams, then I believe I should begin my Presi-
dency by naming an extraordinary commission to the French re-
public, and I think it would consist of three persons : Mr. Madi-
son, Mr. Pinckney, and Mr. Cabot. I should pursue this course
for several reasons, because I would have a man as influential
with the French as Mr. Madison ; yet, I would not trust him
alone, lest his Gallicism should work amiss, — because I would
F U

210 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

not wound Mr. Pinckney, so recently sent in the same spirit ;
thirdly, I think Cabot would mix very useful ingredients in the
cup.

The commission should be charged to make explanations —
to remonstrate, to ask indemnification, and they should be em-
powered to make a new treaty of commerce not inconsistent with
our other treaties, and perhaps to abrogate or remodify the treaty
of alliance.

That treaty can only be inconvenient to us in future. The
guarantee of our sovereignty and independence henceforth is no-
minal. The guarantee of the West India islands of France, as
we advance in strength, will be more and more real. In future,
and in a truly defensive war, I think we shall be bound to com-
ply efficaciously with our guarantee. Nor have I been able to
see that it means less than obligation to take part in such a war
with our whole force. I have no ideas of treaties which are not
executed.

Hence, I want to get rid of that treaty by mutual consent, or
to liquidate its meaning to a treaty of definite succor — in a clear-
ly defensive war ; so many men, so many ships, so much money,
and to be furnished by one ally to the other. This of course
must be so managed as to exclude unequivocally the present war
in all its possible mutations.

Such objects are important enough for three. In executive
matters, I am as little fond as most people of plurality ; but I
think it pedantry to admit no exceptions to any general rule, and
I believe, under the present circumstances of the case, a commis-
sion would be advisable. I give my dream of it as it occurred :
you will do with it what you please.

Yours,

A. H.

JEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 211

KING TO HAMILTON.

March 8th, 1797.

Dear Sir :

On the 28th ult., the Bank of England stopped payment in
specie, and since every bank in Great Britain has followed its ex-
ample. The directors say that the bank is more than solvent,
exclusive of their capital stock invested in the funds. Commit-
tees of the two houses of Parliament, which have examined the
affairs of the bank, confirm by their report the declaration of the
directors, and associations are forming throughout the kingdom
to receive and circulate bank notes. Many whom I meet profess
to believe that the bank will soon be able to resume their former
course of payments. But I see so few of the causes (if they ex-
ist) which are to effect this restoration, that I am somewhat skep-
tical, and my want of faith is in some measure excused by cir-
cumstances that I think will for the present prevent the return
of the golden age. No nation has supported a more perfect credit
than England. None has been able to substitute in so great a
degree paper in lieu of coin — and in no country, therefore, is the
quantity of specie comparatively so small as in England. This
fact was not practically believed. The bank has now proved it
to the conviction and dismay of the country. Besides, Parlia-
ment have authorized the bank to issue notes under £5, and they
have also repealed the laws prohibiting individuals from making
and circulating their notes payable on demand for sums under
£5. The consequence is, that the banks are throwing into cir-
culation 20s. and 40s. notes, to supply the absence of guineas, and
the manufactories and private bankers are likewise issuing to
their workmen and customers, small bills of every denomination,
which supply the absence of shillings and sixpenny pieces.

Farewell.

Yours sincerely.

P. S. — Since the capture of Mantua, the Austrians have no-
tified this court of their resolution to prosecute the war — relying

212 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 40.

on the co-operation of Great Britain. What effect the pecuniary-
state of England may have upon their disposition to persevere, I
will not conjecture. Without moneys the Emperor will not be able
to go on. Thus you see a very interesting subject brought within a
narrow compass. France will harass and waste our commerce
regardless of justice. She makes our treaty with England the
pretence. Had we made no treaty her conduct would be the
same. She has recently required of Hamburgh and Bremen to
suspend and prohibit all commerce with England — and yet she
has not succeeded in her views, though she has recalled her min-
ister from Hamburgh. The demand has likewise been repeated
at Copenhagen, and a refusal to comply has produced a diplo-
matic altercation, as pointed, perhaps, as that between Colonel
Pickering and Mr. Adet.

Our affairs in the Mediterranean are settled or nearly so. Col.
Humphries informs me that we stand well with Algiers. We
have concluded a treaty of peace with Tripoli, and it is probable,
shall soon make a similar treaty with Tunis. The Dey of Al-
giers having invaded the Tunissean territories — principally, says
Col. Humphries, to compel the Bey to conclude a peace with the
United States of America, for the accomplishment of which the
Dey offers to advance the money from his own treasury, and en-
gages to guarantee this treaty as he has done that with Tripoli. —
Strange event.

SCHUYLER TO HAMILTON.

Albany, March 19, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

I shall not fail to call the attention of the Senate to the inse-
cure state of the port of New-York, and to detail the distressing
consequences which must result should the metropolis be laid
under contribution, be conflagrated, or possessed by a hostile
foreign power — but I apprehend nothing more will be done than

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 213

authorizing the Governor to take measures for its security, if a
war with some European power should appear to him inevitable.

It is to be lamented that the most influential characters in the
representation from New- York could not be prevailed on to
remain here. By thus neglecting their duty they have committed
the affairs of their constituents to less able hands, and painful
results must be expected.

If gentlemen of consideration in the public mind continue to
refuse seats in either branch of the legislature, it is certain that
a variety of evils will result to the community, and the metropo-
lis will be most deeply affected. I wish, therefore, that the
necessity in gentlemen to step forward and offer or consent to be
candidates at the ensuing election, may be strongly urged. Mr.
Burr, we are informed, will be a candidate for a seat in the As-
sembly ; his views it is not difficult to appreciate. They alarm me,
and if he prevails, I apprehend a total change of politics in the
next Assembly — attended with other disagreeable consequences.

Mr. Adams's speech to the Senate at taking leave, and expres-
sions on that, at his inauguration, have left very unfavorable
impressions on my mind, and created alarm, but it may not be
prudent to state the reasons. We are all in health, and all join
in love to you and all with you. . .

I am, dear Sir, most sincerely yours,

Ph. Schuyler.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

March 22, 1797.

Dear Sir:

It is now ascertained that Mr. Pinckney has been refused, and
with circumstances of indignity. What is to be done ? The
share I have had in the public administration added to my inter-
est as a citizen, make me extremely anxious that at this delicate
crisis a course of conduct exactly proper may be adopted. I

214 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 40.

offer to your consideration, without what appears to me ceremony,
such a course.

First. I would appoint a day of humiliation and prayer. In
such a crisis this appears to me proper in itself, and it will be
politically useful to impress our nation that there is a serious
state of things — to strengthen religious ideas in a contest, which
in its progress may require that our people may consider them-
selves as the defenders of their country against atheism, conquest,
and anarchy. It is far from evident to me that the progress of
the war may not call on us to defend our firesides and our altars.
And any plan which does not look forward to this as possible,
will, in my opinion, be a superficial one.

Second. I would call Congress together at as short a day as a
majority of both houses can assemble.

Third. When assembled, I would appoint a commission ex-
traordinary, to consist of Mr. Jefferson or Mr. Madison, together
with Mr. Cabot and Mr. Pinckney. To be useful it is important
that a man agreeable to the French should go. But neither
Madison nor Jefferson ought to go alone. The three will give
security. It will flatter the French pride. It will engage Ame-
rican confidence, and recommend the people to what shall be
eventually necessary. The commission should be instructed to
explain ; to ask a rescinding of the order under which we suffer,
and reparation for the past — to remodify our treaties under
proper guards. On the last idea I will trouble you hereafter.

Fourth. The Congress should be urged to take defensive
measures, these to be an embargo, unless with convoy by special
license.

Additional revenue for additional expenses.

2. The creation of a naval force — including the prompt pur-
chase and equipment of sloops of war — this force to serve as
convoys to our trade.

3. Commissions to be granted to our merchant vessels, autho-
rizing them to arm to defend themselves ; to capture when
attacked, but not to cruise. The same instructions to our con-
voys.

4. The organization of a provisional army of twenty-five

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 215

thousand men, to be ready to serve if a war breaks out — in the
mean time to receive certain compensations, but not full pay.
The actual increase of our establishment in artillery and cavalry.

The following considerations appear to me weighty. The
Empress of Russia is dead. Successors are too apt to contradict
predecessors. The new Emperor may join Russia. The Em-
peror of Germany by this mean or by the fortune of war may be
compelled to make peace. England may be left alone. America
may be a good outlet for troublesome armies which the govern-
ment is at a loss to manage. The governing passion of the Ruler
of France has been revenge. Their interest is not to be calculat-
ed upon. To punish and humble us — to force us into a greater
dependence, may be the plan of France.

At any rate we shall best guarantee ourselves against calami-
ty by preparing for the work. In this time of general convul-
sion, in a state of things which threatens all civilization, 'tis a
great folly to wrap ourselves up in a cloak of security.

The Executive before Congress meet ought to have a well
digested plan and to co-operate in getting it adopted.

Yours truly, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, March 26th, 1797.

Dear Sir:

On the 25th I was favored with your letter of the 22d. The
first measure of calling Congress together had been determined
on by the President the preceding evening, and I had the
draught of the proclamation inclosed in my hand to present to
him, when I received your letter. Some other of the measures
suggested had been contemplated, and all will receive attention
from me and my colleagues. I beg you to continue to commu-
nicate to me your ideas on public affairs, especially at the present
interesting period.

216 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 40.

You mention the appointing a commission extraordinary.
We more than doubt the propriety of this step. The Directory
have declared " qu'il ne reconnaitra, et ne recevra plus de minis-
tre plcnipotentiaire des Etats Unis jusqu' apres le redressment
des griefs demande au gouvernement Ame'ricaine, et que la Ke-
publique Frangaise est en droit d'en attendre." These "griefs"
are doubtless detailed by citizens Adet and M. Delacroix, as
exhibited in the notes of the former and the summary of the
latter, and which you will see in my letter to General Pinckney,
which I had the pleasure to send you in print. All the important
acts of the government must therefore be reversed before a minister can
be admitted. The former is impossible, and there seems therefore
no opening at present for a new mission. This new mission is
what the enemies of our government wish for, however circum-
stances may oppose it. In suggesting " a commission extraordi-
nary," I presume, you did not know that the refusal to "receive
another minister until," &c, had been so peremptory.

I am going to prepare a state of the information received
from Mr. Pinckney for the press. Anonymously, yet with clear
marks of authenticity, and it will, if approved by the President,
be speedily published. It seems highly important that the
public mind should be enlightened as to facts.

I am very sincerely and affectionately yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, March 29th, 1797.

Dear Sir:

The post of yesterday brought me your letter of the day
before.

I regret that the idea of a commission extraordinary appears
of doubtful propriety. For after very mature reflection I am
entirely convinced of its expediency. I do not understand the
passage you cite as excluding the reception of a special extraordi-

jEt.40.] correspondence, 217

nary minister, but of an extraordinary resident minister. It
seems impossible that the Directory can mean to say that they
will shut the door to all explanation, even as to the nature and
measure of the redress of grievances which they require. They
speak too hastily not to authorize a large interpretation of what
they say.

But if I were certain they would not hear the commission, it
would not prevent my having recourse to it. It would be my
policy, if such a temper exists in them, to accumulate the proofs
of it with a view to union at home.

This union (I do not expect to proselyte all the leaders of fac-
tion) appears to me a predominant consideration ; and with re-
gard to France, more than ordinary pains are requisite to at-
tain it.

That the enemies of the government desire the measure, is a
cogent reason with me for adopting it ; because I would meet
them on their own ground and disarm them of the argument,
that all has not been done which might have been done towards
preserving peace.

The estimation of the merit of all our past measures depends
on the final preservation of peace. This, besides the interest of
the country in peace, is a very powerful reason for attempting
every thing. The best friends of the government will expect
it ; and if this expedient be not adopted, it seems to me rupture
will inevitably follow.

There is an opinion industriously inculcated (which nobody
better than myself knows to be false), that the actual administra-
tion are endeavoring to provoke a war. It is all important by
the last possible sacrifice, to confound this charge. I cannot but
add that I have not only a strong wish, but an extreme anxiety,
that the measure in question may be adopted.

To attain the end of it, however, it is very material to engage
in the errand a man who will have the full confidence of the ad-
verse party, and who will be agreeable to France.

This cannot be done without employing others with him.
Hence the idea of a commission, which to me appears capable of
attaining every advantage and obviating every danger.

218 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 40.

I am also desirous of impressing the public mind strongly by
a religious solemnity, to take place about the meeting of Con-
gress. I also think the step intrinsically proper.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

March 30th, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Every one who can properly appreciate the situation of our
affairs at this moment, in all the extent of possible circum-
stances, must be extremely anxious for such a course of con-
duct in our government, as will unite the utmost prudence with
energy. It has been a considerable time my wish, that a com-
mission extraordinary* should be constituted to go to France, to
explain, demand, negotiate, &c. I was particularly desirous that
the first measure of the present President's administration should
have been that. But it has not happened. I now continue to
wish earnestly that the same measure may go into effect, and
that the meeting of the Senate may be accelerated for that pur-
pose. Without opening a new channel of negotiation, it seems
to me the door to accommodation is shut, and rupture will fol-
low, if not prevented by a general peace. Who, indeed, can be
certain that a general pacification of Europe may not leave us
alone to receive the law from France ? Will it be wise to omit
any thing to parry, if possible, these great risks ?

Perhaps the Directory have declared they will not receive a
minister till their grievances shall have been redressed.

This can hardly mean more than that they will not receive
a- resident minister. It cannot mean that they will not hear an
extraordinary messenger, who may even be sent to know what
will satisfy.

Suppose they do. It will still be well to convince the peo-

* Madison, Pinckney, Cabot.

iE-r. 40.] correspondence. 219

pie, that the government has done all in its power, and that the
Directory are unreasonable.

But the enemies of the government call for the measure. To
me this is a very strong reason for pursuing it. It will meet
them on their own ground, and disarm them of the plea that
something has been omitted.

I ought, my good friend, to apprise you, for you may learn
it from no other, that a suspicion begins to dawn among the
friends of the government, that the actual administration is not
much averse from war with France. How very important to
obviate this !

The accounts just received, offer a great danger, that the Em-
peror may be compelled to make peace. Paul of Eussia is evi-
dently lukewarm in the cause of the allies. From lukewarm-
ness to enmity, when fortune takes the other side, is but a step.

If England is left to bear the burthen alone, who can say
that France may not venture to sport an army to this country ?
It may get rid of troublesome spirits.

As in the case of England, so now, my opinion is, to exhaust
the expedients of negotiation ; and, at the same time, to prepare
vigorously for the worst. This is sound policy. Any omission
or deficiency either way, will be a great error.

God bless you.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 30th, 1797.

Dear Sir :

I believe I mentioned in my last that I was going to sketch
a state of facts relative to Mr. Pinckney's mission for publication.
I now inclose it. That the facts should be known to our citizens
was deemed important. I thought it highly important that the
representatives should come together, impressed with the senti-
ments of their constituents, on the reprehensible conduct of the
French government, which made loud complaints of wrongs, but

220 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 40.

refused to hear our answer, or to enter on any discussion of the
subjects of complaint, by refusing to acknowledge a special
minister, sent from the United States for the direct purpose of
making explanations, and that demanded of conscious innocence
a confession of offences and redress of injuries never committed,
as the preliminary of receiving our minister. The abominable
depredations on our commerce, their unfounded complaints,
their preposterous refusal to hear our answer, and the indignities
offered to our ambassador, combined, and fully known to the
people of the United States, it might be fairly hoped would so
powerfully operate in removing their ill-founded and ill-requited
attachments to France, and even excite such a spirit of just
resentment and pride, as would effectually control certain men
who have seemed willing to chain us to that republic, and make
us lick the feet of violent and unprincipled rulers.

The statement of facts being prepared, I expected to hand it
yesterday to Mr. Fenno for publication, but some scruples arose
about its expediency. The facts are extracted from General
Pinckney's letters of December 20th and January 6th. The
objections were, that it might be deemed irritating — that it would
be deemed an official publication, though anonymous ; that such
manifestly official publications have not heretofore been made,
except to Congress; and then at their approaching sessions the
letters themselves will be laid before both Houses ; that America
will expect the Executive to use every means of cultivating peace,
and to hazard nothing which can be construed into a tendency
to provoke a war. But the same objections substantially were
made by our French American patriots to my letter to General
Pinckney, though written with extreme moderation, and con-
taining answers and explanations to complaints which the French
minister himself had the impudence to address to the citizens of
the United States, whom those patriots would gladly continue
to keep in the dark, and, in short, prostrate by an unconditional
submission at the feet of the most ambitious and terrible tyrants
that ever cursed the earth.

The publication being thus suspended, I inclose the state-
ment for your information. You need not return it, as I have a

JEt.40.] correspondence. 221

fair copy. I need not have been so minute in the detail ; but
the substance of the facts, I still think, ought to be published,
and without delay, and in such form as to bear evident marks of
authenticity ; without which, they will not gain universal be-
lief, and, therefore, fail of the impression which I wished to have
had produced by the publication. If you can drop me a line,
expressing your opinion on the matter, I shall be much obliged.
I am, with sincere respect, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, March 31st, 1707.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of March 30th, and I consider it
as a great acquisition. It developes the origin of a circumstance
which came to my knowledge at the close of the last session,
which filled my mind with inexpressible surprise. To you I
will say, but in the most perfect confidence, that the President
had determined on instituting a commission, but it would not have
been composed as you now propose. I believe no one of the heads
of departments knows of the decision except myself. I had
attributed it to Mr. Ames, from a casual expression, and I own,
that by means of my most sincere and urgent expostulations —
nay, supplications — it was postponed.

I am far from believing, that considering General Pinckney's
diplomatic rank, his personal character, and the special objects of
his mission, which were specified in his letters of credence, and com-
municated to the Directory, that there is any just, or even specious
pretext, for his rejection. On the contrary, it appears to me that
France has instantly rejected a fair and equitable proposition for
a discussion, and adjustment of the existing disputes. That the
national indignity is such, that it must be noticed. There is a
point, but where I allow to be uncertain, below which the
government cannot stoop without losing the confidence of the

222 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

people, and producing that despondency, loss of credit, and want
of public concert, which would ruin our affairs. I wish we may
find that our apathy has not been already carried to a fatal ex-
treme. The plan of measures I would propose is as follows : —

1st. That the President should, in his speech to Congress,
take a view of the complaints of France, and of the measures
adopted by his predecessor, particularly in the mission of Mr.
Pinckney, and should give them his decided approbation ; that
he should intimate, but in delicate terms, that France has rejected
an equitable opportunity for discussion, but that this would not
prevent him from persevering in the line of negotiation.

That measures would be accordingly pursued for renewing
proposals to, and entering upon negotiations with the government
of France, whenever its consent can be obtained.

2d. That the President should recommend, and in more than
usual terms of confidence, the adoption of the following measures.
1st. An increase of revenue. 2d. The arming of our vessels for
defence, with the right of capturing the attacking force. 3d. The
equipment of a number of stout merchant ships and galleys, to
defend our coasts. 4th. The fortification of our forts. 5th. The
enrollment of a land force (principally with a view of preventing
insurrections of slaves in the Southern States). 6th. A power in
the Executive to arrest vessels and persons suspected of intending
to cruise against our trade, or nations with whom we are at peace.
3d. A serious and firm call upon Congress for their united
and vigorous support of the Executive, with an appeal to the
heroic generosity and patriotism of the people, in the present
critical state of affairs. My own ideas of the system and inten-
tions of France would lead me further in the defensive and cau-
tionary measures that I have proposed ; but I am sensible of the
impolicy of anticipating public opinion.

On the subject of negotiation, I would ever be ready to meet
France, and keep an agent or agents in Europe, ready for that
purpose ; but I am not willing to admit, that the government has
already done less than the occasion required, or that France is
justifiable in refusing to recognize Mr. Pinckney. I am also free
to declare, that I conceive the claims of France, in any other than

jEt.40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 223

the last and most extreme necessity, utterly inadmissible. They,
in fact, require a surrender of national independence. I would
propose to retract nothing. I would not refuse a modification of
treaties, if desired. The idea of a commission consisting of Mr.
Madison, or any other man like hirn, I must own to you, is one
which I can never adopt without the utmost reluctance. I have
no confidence in Mr. Madison. He has been a frequenter of Mr.
Adet's political meetings. I have been just informed, that Mr.
Adet has suggested the idea of sending this gentleman. We
know that the French count upon the support of a party in this
country, and, so shameless is the faction grown, that positive
proof of a devotion to French views is, with many, no injury to
a man's popularity. If the government suffers France to dictate
what description of men shall be appointed to public trusts, our
country is undone. From that moment the confidence of all the
old-fashioned, honorable, and virtuous men in the interior coun-
try, is irrecoverably lost.

Another consequence of not rejecting the interference of
France is, that it will encourage other nations to interfere, espe-
cially Great Britain, and will, moreover, countenance the calumny
that a British faction exists. The French say that Mr. Jay and
his friends were in the British interest, and that therefore he was
appointed. Will it be safe or proper to appoint a man known
to be of the French party, and thus give to a falsehood the force
of argument? If I know any thing of human nature, this will
be the effect on the minds of thousands.

I have no objection to sending a man of neutral politics, at
least on party questions, if he be a man of sense, firmness, and
integrity. General Pinckney is of this description. If a com-
mission of three is generally preferred, it is a point perhaps not
to be contested, though, I own, it does not strike me agreeably.
Yet, how is the commission to be composed? Must all concur,
or will the concurrence of two suffice? In either case, mutual
confidence will be essential to success. From what was on the
point of being done, I presume Mr. Cabot to be out of the ques-
tion. If a man of his principles were to be associated with Mr.
Madison, either nothing would be done, or something worse than

224 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 40.

nothing. Mr. Madison would insist on a submission to France,
or would obstruct a settlement, and throw the disgrace on the
friends of government. Either result would deliver the country,
bound hand and foot, to French influence. If nothing was done,
the obstinacy of the Federalists would be complained of; if some-
thing was done, however humiliating, the responsibility would
be divided, and all the mischief would be attributed to the des-
perate state of affairs induced by the fatal treaty with Great
Britain.

You know that I am accustomed to respect your opinions ;
and I am not so ignorant of the extent of your influence upon
the friends of government, as not to be sensible, that if you are
known to favor the sending of a commission, so the thing must
and will be. "When the body of both parties concur in a meas-
ure, individual opinion stands for nothing. In this case, what
would be the objection against sending Mr. Ingersoll, of this city,
or some such character, to be united with J. Q. Adams, or Mr.
Murray and General Pinckney, to rendezvous at Amsterdam,
until the consent of France to negotiate can be obtained. Is it
necessary that the mission should proceed directly to France, and
must Mr. Madison be a member ?

I should be sorry, if the friends of the government were to
consider me, or any of the public officers, as desirous of producing
a war with France, because I should consider this as evidence
that our affairs are desperate. If the public pulse does not beat
higher than that of the government, all is over. There ought to
be a zeal for strenuous measures, and this zeal ought to be an
engine in the hands of government for preserving peace. I
think I can assure you, that the motion of our ship cannot be ad-
justed to a minute scale, if the present course is attempted to be
varied ; it will in future be nearly opposite the present.

The present is a moment of apparent tranquillity, but I con-
jecture, that it is a calm, which forebodes a hurricane. The Execu-
tive will either find violent and steady gales from one point, or
be assailed with a tornado, which will throw every thing into
confusion. I predict that no treaty, no compromise, no conces-
sion, will afford security. Eevenue is essential, and there will, I

At. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 225

fear, be insuperable objections started by the friends and enemies
of government. Credit lias been abused ; has been exhausted by
senseless speculations.

Having no ambition no gratify, no theory or project to sup-
port, I shall be ready to aid my country with my best exertions,
and shall be happy to receive your opinions, and to know the
state of public opinion. No person can exceed me in sincere
wishes that what is proper may be done.

MIRANDA TO HAMILTON.

A Paris le Ire Avril, 1797.
MON CHER ET RESPECTABLE AMI :

C'est depuis quatre ans que je reprends la plume pour vous
dire que je suis encore du nombre des vivants qui restent en
France depuis la tyrannic Voici un livre qui viens de paraitre
sur la revolution francaise par Desodoards, II contient tous les
faits principaux, et indique les causes, avec connaissance, impar-
tiality et moderation, a mon avis, — et tous ceux qui connaissent
a fonds la revolution, seront, confirrncs dans cette opinion que
j'avais forme' d'abord en le lisant. Ne manquez pas de le lire
immediatement, de le faire passer apres le President, s'il ne
la pas lu encore. MM. Paine et Monroe, qui sont deja partis d'ici
pour se rendre chez vous, ne seront pas, peut-etre du meme
avis; mais je crois qu'ils ont mieux connu le systeme des jacobins
que celui de la Eevolution francaise. Enfin il est certain,
mon ami, que l'ex-President Washington fit une faute bien grave
en envoyant ici pour ambassacleurs M. Morris, et M. Monroe,
tous deux exageres dans un sens contraire. II est vrai que le
premier est un homme infiniment plus instruit, et bien moins
extravagant que l'autre. P — e est devenu un Marat tout a fait.
Dieu veuille qu'il ne fasse pas plus de mal au nouveau monde,
que l'autre n'en a fait a la France.

Adieu, mon cher ami. Continuez a soutenir avec courage la
f 15

226 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 40.

cause dc la liberie que tant de brigands et d' ignorans de'shon-
orent depuis cinq ans, tout en pre*tendant de l'aimer et de la de"
fendre. Je suis reuni ici (et pour cela persecute' encore), avec le
petit nombre de ceux qui la connaissent et qui la defendent sin-
cerement ; veuille la Providence nous accorder du succes pour
le bonheur de ce pays — ci aussi que pour la tranquillite* des autres,
au moins. Donnez moi des nouvelles de nos amis communs,
Knox, et W. Duer — faites leur bien des complimens de ma part
en leur communiquant la partie de cette lettre ce que vous
jugerez a propos, aussi bien que le livre.

Je vous prie de presenter mes respectueux complimens au gdn-
eral Washington — ainsi qu'a tous mes amis a New York, &c. &c.

F. Miranda.

P. S. — Je viens de recevoir dans le moment une lettre de M.
Monroe, par son Secretaire Prevost. Le contenu de cette
lettre me fait soupconner quelque cabale ou. intrigue de Messieur

Paine et M e (avec lesquels je n'ai jamais eu aucune liaison)

ainsi je m'empresse de vous envoy er copie de cette petite cor-
respondance, pour vous mettre a meme de pouvoir repondre aux
calomnies qui sont les armes de la secte Jacobite.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

April 1st, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 30th, with the statement in-
closed. I do not believe that its publication would have any
influence upon the question of a rupture with France ; but yet,
as it seems that those who surround the President are not agreed
in the matter — as an opinion is industriously circulated, that too
much fuel has been added by the publications of the government
— as it is important to disarm a certain party of the weapons of

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 227

calumny — as it is in general best to avoid unofficial publications
of official matter — as it may be even useful, for the sake of im-
pression, to reserve the disclosure till the meeting of Congress,
when the accumulation of insult may be the instrument of giving
a strong impulse, — I rather advise the withholding of the state-
ment. When Congress meet, it will be very useful to have a
statement of this kind ready, as the abstract of the communica-
tions, to present to the people a summary view.

Such, my dear sir, is the infatuation of a great part of our
community, that it will be policy in our government to do a
great deal too much to make the idea palpable, that rupture was
inevitable. Adieu.

Yours truly, &c.

If the statement is published, I would close with the words
" January last," in the last paragraph. The residue will make a
good separate newspaper paragraph. Pray, who is the emigrant
alluded to ?

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, April 2d, 1797.

Dear Sir:

As Mr. Church is the bearer, I refer you to him for what it
would take many pages to relate, and will only say, that, not-
withstanding the injuries we continue to receive from France, I
still hope the same policy that has hitherto kept us out of the war
will continue to influence and decide our government.

How the new President will conduct himself in a situation
thorny and embarrassing, remains to be seen ; the first step is
very important, and therefore should be deeply and extensively
considered.

Every thing looks like an active and, to a certain degree, a
vigorous campaign ; yet, with all these appearances of the con--

228 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40

tinuance of the war, peace may be near. But what will be the
consequence of such a peace as alone can be had at this time ?
A late arret of the Directory gives notice to all French citizens,
that the treaty of February, 1778, between France and the United
States of America, has been (of full right), in virtue of the second
article thereof, modified so as to conform to the stipulations con-
tained in the treaty of 1794 between the United States and Great
Britain. The arret proceeds to specify the modification.

1. All enemy's goods, and all merchandise, " non sumsament
constatee neutre," on board American vessels, shall be lawful
prize, but the vessel shall be released, &c.

2. To the articles of contraband specified in the treaty of
Feb., 1778, shall be added, "les bois de construction," &c, enu-
merating the additional articles of contraband contained in the
treaty between the United States and Great Britain.

3. " D'apres l'article 21 du traite de Londres du 19 Nov.,
1794, tout individu reconnu Americain, porteur d'une commis-
sion donnee par les ennemis de la France, ainsi que tout marin
de cette nation faisants partie des Equipages des navires ou vas-
saux ennemis sera, par ce seul fait, declare pirate, et traite
comme tel, sans qu'il puisse, dans aucun cas, alleguer qu'il y a
e*te force par violence, menaces ou autrement."

4. According to the law of 14th Feb., 1793, the regulations
of that of the 21st Oct., 1744, and of that of the 26th July, 1778,
concerning the trial of neutral ships and cargoes, shall be ob-
served ; and in consequence thereof, every American vessel shall
be a good prize, on board whereof there shall not be found un
Role d'equipage en bonne forme, such as is required by the form
annexed to the treaty of the 6th February, 1778, the execution
of which is hereby required.

5. liespects certain causes of forfeiture by reason of miscon-
duct in destroying prizes, possessing double papers, &c, &c. ; 6
repeals certain former regulations ; 7 directs the insertion of the
arret in the bulletin of the laws, &c.

The third article is a false construction, for obvious purposes,
of the analogous article of our treaty with England. The fourth
will render all our ships liable to capture, and, if acted upon, to

Mt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 229

condemnation, since no American vessel has on board her the
document required. In our printed laws are also the treaties,
and among them those we formed with France ; to the commer-
cial treaty, though the 25th and 27th articles refer to it, there is
no model or form of a passport. Mr. Jefferson has certified that
treaty to be correct, and a perfect copy, as you will see by his
printed certificate in the law book.

I have a copy of the commercial treaty with France, printed
in London in 1783, which has the form of a passport, role d'equi-
page, &c, annexed. A copy of it I have given to Mr. Church,
who will show it to you, by which you will see that none of our
vessels are exempt from capture if this copy is that referred to in
the late arret. Indeed, it seems too absurd in some things to be
genuine, yet I suspect it is the model or form referred to and re-
quired by the fourth article of the arret.

Farewell. Yours, &c,

Eufus King.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

April 5th, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of March 31st. I hope nothing
in my last was misunderstood. Could it be necessary I would
assure you, that no one has a stronger conviction than myself, of
the purity of the motives which direct your public conduct, or of
the good sense and judgment by which it is guided. If I have a
fear (you will excuse my frankness), it is, lest the strength of your
feelings, the companions of energy of character, should prevent
that pliancy to circumstances which is sometimes indispensable.
I beg you only to watch yourself on this score, and the public
will always find in you an able as well as a faithful servant.

The situation of our countrj', my dear sir, is singularly
critical. The map of Europe is every way discouraging. There
is too much reason to apprehend, that the Emperor of Germany,

230 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

in danger from Eussia and Prussia, perhaps the Porte, as well as
France, may be compelled to yield to the views of the latter.
England, standing alone, may be driven to a similar issue. It is
certain that great consternation, in court and country, attended
the intelligence of Bonaparte's last victories. Either to be in
rupture with France united with England, alone or singly, as is
possible, would be a most unwelcome situation. Divided as we
are, who can say what would be hazarded by it ?

In such a situation it appeared to me, we should rather err
on the side of condescension, than on the opposite side. We
ought to do every thing to avoid rupture, without unworthy sacri-
fices ; and to keep in view, as a primary object, union at home.

No measure can tend more to this, than an extraordinary
mission. And it is certain to fulfil the ends proposed. It ought
to embrace a character in whom France and the opposition have
full credit. What risk can attend sending Madison, if combined,
as I propose, with Pinckney and Cabot, or such a man (two de-
ciding) ? Dej)end on it — Pinckney is a man of honor and loves
his country. Cabot we both know. Besides, there ought to be
certain leading instructions from which they may not deviate.

I agree with you, that we have nothing to retract ; that we
ought to risk every thing before we submit to any dishonorable
terms. But we may remould our treaties. We may agree to
put France on the same footing as Great Britain, by our treaty
with her. We may also liquidate, with a view to future wars,
the import of the mutual guaranty in the treaty of alliance;
substituting specific succors, and defining the casus feeder is. But
this last may or may not be done, though, with me, it is a
favorite object.

Ingersol will not fulfil the object; but I would rather have
him than do nothing.

I am clearly of opinion, with you, that the President shall
come forward to Congress in a manly tone, and that Congress
shall adopt vigorous defensive measures. Those you propose
are proper, and some others on which I may write hereafter.

If Madison is well coupled, I do not think his intrigues can
operate as you imagine. Should he advocate dishonorable con-

2ET.40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 231

cessions to France, the public opinion will not support. His
colleague, by address, and showing a disposition to do enough,
may easily defeat his policy, and maintain the public confidence.
Besides that, it is possible too much may be taken for granted
with regard to Mr. Madison.

Yours very truly,

A. Hamilton.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 5th, 1797.

I received your letter of the and accord with your opinion
that the proposed publication of the intelligence from General
Pinckney should be omitted. The " Emigrant," we conclude to
be Perigord, formerly bishop of Autun. Some time since, I was
informed, that he left this country with signs of enmity towards it,
and the Directory would naturally place great confidence in his
opinion, and yet it is so extravagant we may wonder that it
should gain any credit. But, as Barras said to Monroe, " they
will not stoop to calculate the consequence of our condescension
to our ancient tyrants," nor, it would seem, of their own atrocities.
They are giddy with their successes, and stick at no means which
promise to promote their views of domination and plunder.

I have omitted to answer your letter of 10th February. To-
day I have examined Chancellor Livingston's letter books. On
the 25th of March, 1783, he wrote to the American commission-
ers, Adams, Franklin, Jay, and Laurens, acknowledging the re-
ceipt of their letter, with the " preliminary articles." He tells
them that " the steadiness manifested in not treating without an
express acknowledgment of our independence previous to a
treaty, is approved, and it is not doubted but it accelerated that
declaration" — yet you will recollect, as I have stated in my print-
ed letter to General Pinckney, that Count de Yergennes urged
Mr. Jay's negotiating with Mr. Oswald, without insisting on that
previous acknowledgment, and this concurring with other facts,

232 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40-

inspired Mr. Jay with suspicions which the Chancellor censures.
The grounds of those suspicions were detailed in Mr. Jay's
letter of September 18th, of which the Chancellor acknowledged
the receipt on the 30th December, 1782.

In the same letter of March 25th, 1783, to the commissioners,
after informing them that the preliminary articles had been laid
before Congress, "that they had met with their warmest appro-
bation, and been generally seen by the people in the most favor-
able point of view," and made some comments on the subject,
and noticed the British debts, which, says he, no honest man
could wish to withhold, he adds: — "But, gentlemen, though
the issue of your treaty has been successful, though I am satis-
fied that we are much indebted to your firmness and persever-
ance, to your accurate knowledge of our situation and of our
wants for this success, yet I feel no little pain at the distrust
manifested in the management of it, particularly in signing the
treaty without communicating it to the court of Versailles, till
after the signature, and in concealing the separate article from it,
even when signed. I have examined with the most minute at-
tention all the reasons assigned in your several letters to justify
these suspicions ; I confess that they do not appear to strike me
so forcibly as they have done you, and it gives me pain that the
character for candor and fidelity to its engagements, which should
always characterize a great people, should have been impeached
thereby. The concealment was, in my opinion, absolutely un-
necessary. For had the court of France disapproved the terms
you had made after they had been agreed upon, they could not
have acted so absurdly as to counteract you at that late day, and
thereby put themselves in the power of an enemy, who would
certainly betray them, and perhaps justify you in making
terms for yourselves. The secret article is no otherwise import-
ant than as it carries in it the seeds of enmity to the court of
Spain, and shows a marked preference for an open enemy." The
Chancellor continues his remarks on the secret article, and ex-
presses his opinion that the same boundary for West Florida
should have been stipulated, into whose hands soever it might
fall at the conclusion of the war. " I feel (says he) for the em-

jEt. 40.] correspondence. 233

barrassment explanations on this subject must subject you to,
when this secret is known to }^our allies." He inclosed to them
his report (or letter) to Congress, on the manner in which the
negotiation had been conducted, in regard to the concealment from
the court of Versailles, and the secret article, and the motions
to which the communication gave rise in Congress. But while
under consideration, letters arrived from Count D'Estaing and
the Marquis de la Fayette, containing accounts that preliminaries
(I suppose of a general peace) were signed, and the whole affair
went over without any decision.

In his report to Congress, he reminds them of their reiterated
expressions of confidence in France, and quotes their public
resolution of the 4th of October, 1782, "That Congress will
not enter into the discussion of any overtures for pacification,
but in confidence and in concert with his most Christian Majesty."
Yet (says he), " it has unfortunately so happened that the ministers
of these States have imagined they had sufficient grounds to sus-
pect the sincerity of the court of France, and have not only
thought it prudent to agree upon and sign preliminaries with
Great Britain, without communicating them till after the signa-
ture to the ministers of his most Christian Majesty, but have
permitted a separate article to be inserted in their treaty, which
they still conceal from the court of France." This he considers
as reducing Congress to a most embarrassing situation, either of
contradicting all their former professions of confidence in their
ally, or of exposing their ministers at the court of France, " and
that too when those ministers have obtained such terms from the
court of London, as does great honor to them, and at least equals
our highest expectations." The preamble to the provisional arti-
cles, he supposes to have been framed in England, and all his
observations manifest his suspicions of insidious designs in that
power. Finally, he submits the following resolutions :

"That the Secretary for Foreign Affairs be directed to com-
municate the separate article in the provisional preliminary treaty
with Great Britain to the minister of his most Christian Majesty,
in such manner as will best tend to remove any unfavorable im-
pression it may make on the court of France of the sincerity of
these States or their ministers.

234 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40-

"That the ministers for negotiating peace be informed of this
communication, and of the reasons which influenced Congress to
make it. That they be instructed to agree that in whatsoever
hands West Florida may remain at the conclusion of the war,
the United States will be satisfied that the line of north boun-
dary be as described in the said separate article.

" That it is the sense of the United States in Congress that the
articles agreed upon between the ministers of these States and
those of his Britannic Majesty, are not to take place until a peace
shall have been actually signed between their Most Christian and
Britannic Majesties."

Actually signed ! — If you turn to the preamble of the provin-
cial articles you will see that it was declared that the treaty of
peace which the articles were to constitute, was not to be con-
cluded "until terms of a peace shall be agreed upon between
Great Britain and France, and his Britannic Majesty shall be
ready to conclude such treaty accordingly." Now, says the
Chancellor, "this preamble is so expressed as to render it very
doubtful whether our treaty does not take place the moment
France and England have agreed on the terms of their treaty,
though France should refuse to sign till her allies were satisfied."
As you have not mentioned the object of your inquiry on this
subject, this detail may perhaps be deficient or redundant. In
either case you will advise me, and particularly I must request
you to acknowledge the receipt of this letter, that I may be sure
of its having reached your hands.

I am, dear Sir, very truly yours.

HAMILTON TO WM. SMITH.

New-York, April 5, 1797.

I have received, my dear sir, your letter of the 2d of April,
(1797,) with your little work accompanying it, which I shall

,Et. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 235

read with the interest I take in the author, the first leisure hour.
I have cast my eye over it, and like very much the plan.

Our affairs are indeed very critical. But I am sorry to find
that I do not agree with several of my friends. I am clearly of
opinion for an extraordinary mission, and as clearly that it should
embrace Madison. I do not think we ought to construe the
declaration of the Directory against receiving a Minister Plenipo-
tentiary, as an extraordinary mission pro hac vice. And if it
does, it would be no reason with me against it. I would accu-
mulate the proofs of French violence, and demonstrate to all our
citizens that nothing possible has been omitted. That a certain
party desires it is with me a strong reason for it — since I would
disarm them of all plea that we have not made every possible
effort for peace. The idea is a plausible one, that as we sent an
Envoy Extraordinary to Britain, so we ought to send one to
France. And plausible ideas are always enough for the multi-
tude.

These and other reasons (and principally to avoid rupture
with a political monster, which seems destined soon to have no
competitor but England), make me even anxious for an extra-
ordinary mission.

And to produce the desired effect, it seems to me essential
that it shall embrace a distinguished character agreeable to France,
and having the confidence of the adverse party. Hence I think
of Madison, but I think of him only as one, because I would not
trust him alone. I would unite with him Pinckney, and some
strong man from the north, Jay, Cabot, and two of the three
should rule. We should then be safe.

I need not tell you that I am disposed to make no sacrifices
to France. I had rather perish myself and family than see the
country disgraced. But I would try hard to avoid rupture, and
if that cannot be, to unite the opinions of all good citizens of
whatever political denomination. This is with me a mighty
object.

I will give you hereafter my ideas of what ought to be done
when Congress meet. My plan ever is to combine energy with
moderation.

Yours affectionately.

236 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JSt. 40.

HAMILTON TO KING.

April 8th, 1797.

I thank you, my dear sir, for your letter of the 6th of Feb-
ruary. The intelligence that the Directory have ordered away
our minister is every way unpleasant. It portends, too, a final
rupture as the only alternative to an ignominious submission.
Much public feeling has been excited; but the government, I
trust and believe, will continue prudent, and do every thing that
honor permits towards accommodation. It is, however, to be
feared that France, successful, will be too violent and imperious
to meet us on any admissible ground.

Congress are called together. I can give you no conjecture
as to what will be done. Opinions are afloat. My idea is,
another attempt to pacify by negotiation, vigorous preparation
for war, and defensive measures with regard to our trade. But
there never was a period of our affairs, in which I could less
foresee the state of things.

I believe there is no danger of want of firmness in the Exec-
utive. If he is not ill-advised, he will not want prudence. I
mean, that he is himself disposed to a, prudently firm course.

You know the mass of our Senate. That of our House of
Eepresentatives is not ascertained. A small majority on the right
side is counted upon. In Virginia it is understood that Morgan
comes in place of Kutherford, and Evans in place of Page. The
whole result of the Virginia election is not known.

The conduct of France has been a very powerful medicine
for the political disease of our country. I think the community
improves in soundness.

Adieu ; God bless you.

JEt.40.] correspondence. 237

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SMITH.

April 10th. 1797.

Dear Sir:

Since my last to you, I have perused with great satisfaction
your little work on our governments. I like the execution no
less than the plan. If my health and leisure should permit, I
would make some notes ; but you cannot depend on it, as I am
not only extremely occupied, but in feeble health.

I send you my ideas of the course of conduct proper in our
present situation. It is unpleasant to me to know, that I have
for some time differed materially from many of my friends on
public subjects, and I particularly regret, that at the present crit-
ical juncture, there is in my apprehension much danger that sen-
sibility will be an overmatch for policy. We seem now to feel
and reason as the Jacobins did when Great Britain insulted and
injured us, though certainly, we have at least as much need of a
temperate conduct now as we had then. I only say, God grant
that the public interest may not be sacrificed at the shrine of
irritation and mistaken pride. Farewell.

Affectionately yours, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, April 12th, 1797.

Dear Sir :

I thank you for your letter of April 5th, and inclose Mr.
King's letter. I presume that the British commissioners under
the 6th article (for Debts) will contend for a similar construction
respecting cases determined in our courts. Is there any ground
on which the principle can be opposed ?

Are we to consider the British credit as at an end. If so,
what effects will it probably produce here ?

Your further opinions respecting the course to be pursued by
France will be very acceptable.

238 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 40.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, April 13th, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you. I am just
informed that an order is come to the custom-house, not to clear
out any vessels if armed, unless destined for the East Indies.
Under the present circumstances, I very much doubt the expe-
diency of this measure. The excesses of France justify passive-
ness in the government ; and its inability to protect the mer-
chants, requires that it should leave them to protect themselves.
Nor do I fear that it would tend to rupture with France, if such
be not her determination otherwise. The legality of this prohi-
bition cannot be defended ; it must stand on its necessity. It
would, I think, have been enough to require security, that the
vessel is not to be employed to cruise against any of the bellige-
rent powers. Perhaps even now, where vessels have been armed
previous to the receipt of the prohibition, it is safe and advisable
to except them on the condition of such security. Think of this
promptly. The general measure may be further considered at
leisure. Nor am I prepared to say that, having been taken, it
ought to be revoked.

I will send you shortly, some remarks in reply to questions
you propose. Adieu.

Yours, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 29th, 1797.

Dear Sir:

In contemplating the idea suggested by you of arming the
merchant vessels of the United States, for defence only, a diffi-
culty at once presented. This measure is incompatible with

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 239

the right of a belligerent power to visit and examine neutral
vessels, to ascertain whether they have on board contraband
goods ; and where a treaty does not alter the law of nations,
whether they are laden with enemies' goods — to see, indeed,
whether under neutral colors, they are such, or enemies. The
answer suggested to myself is this : — that the power at war who
has discarded treaties and the laws of nations, avowedly and
practically, is not entitled to corresponding rights — rights relat-
ing to the same subject, under such treaties and laws ; and con-
sequently that American vessels, if allowed to be defensively
armed, are not to submit to any such visits. Vessels of a neutral
nation, under convoy of the armed ships of such nation, I take
it, are not subject to such visits, and our armed merchant vessels
would he their own convoy. I do not know where this question
is treated of in books ; you, probably, can inform me. The arming
our merchant vessels, though only for defence, will be zealously
opposed in the House of Eepresentatives, on the above ground?
that as well by treaty as the law of nations, the French have
a right to visit our vessels, and because of the danger of its lead-
ing to open war. On the subject of a commission extraordinary to
the French Eepublic, much difficulty occurs. To give a better
prospect of success to this measure, you observe that a man
agreeable to them should go, and you name two persons, either
of whom you would advise to be joined with Mr. Pinckney, and
another on whose attachment to the system of our government
as established and administered, perfect reliance may be placed.
But in the first place would either of the two you name consent
to go ? You certainly reckon on General Pinckney's inviolable
integrity and federal attachments. Will not the man whom you
name as agreeable to the French, see that his hands will be tied ?
If you place any confidence in either of the two, that if com-
missioned he will faithfully consult and firmly persist in mea-
sures which the rights and neutral condition of our country de-
mand, without suffering his choice, his passions, or his prejudices
in favor of France, and from hatred to Great Britain, to sacri-
fice any of our rights or interests to the former, why name a
third commissioner, of principles directly opposed, to check and

240 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

effectually control him? I should be inclined to think that
neither of the two would, under such a view of the case, accept
the appointment, and one of them would perhaps, from his
present station, deem it improper.

Would not the Directory also see such a commission, consti-
tuted as you propose, in the same point of view ? And would
they not say, that ostensibly there was an intention to manifest
a particular respect and attention to them, while, in reality, we
meant no such thing? Or do you consider General Pinckney
as a neutral character in the politics of our country, and, by
appointing two associates of opposite characters, enable him to
hold the balance ? This is the most favorable light in which I can
view the proposition. But when we consider the asperity of the
parties here, and that the two characters named have been con-
sidered among the leaders, that probably neither has a confidence
in the other, that your friend in particular will perhaps fear
to disclose his sentiments on the most interesting questions, lest
they should be betrayed to the French, — is there a well grounded
hope that the mission would be successful ?

On the organization of a provisional army to receive certain
compensations, but not full pay, I should be glad to receive your
ideas a little in detail. The propriety of increasing our artillery
establishment is clear, and I should imagine not difficult to
obtain. I have my doubts of the cavalry ; the militia corps of
horse are already composed, generally speaking, of the best men
and best horses in the country; but they need discipline. I
much doubt, unless the danger of war should appear more cer-
tain than at present, whether even a provisional army will be
granted. If not, perhaps a much larger army of select militia
might be agreed to ; the corps to be composed of volunteers, or
draughts of young men from the general militia, and completely
organized. The militia system to be improved.

On these several subjects, and any others relating to our
French connections, I shall be happy to receive your communi-
cations as early as your leisure will admit.

I am most sincerely and respectfully yours, &c.

Mt.40.] correspondence. 241

P. S. What if General Pinckney were to be appointed Envoy
Extraordinary 1 or even Ambassador, with fresh instructions rela-
tive to the subjects of complaint ? The Directory have said they
will not receive another minister plenipotentiary until, &c.
They refused to receive the Charge d' Affaires of Sweden, sent to
announce the young king's ascending the throne, because at
other courts the same thing had been done by accredited minis-
ters. [And they have made it a subject of serious complaint, as
J. Q. Adams was well informed at the Hague, against Denmark,
because that court omitted to announce to the Directory the death
of the old Queen Dowager. He remarks, that they are seeking for
pretences of quarrel with all the neutral commercial nations,
their great object being to insist on measures to be adopted, or
suffered by neutrals, to injure or destroy the commerce of Bri-
tain.] If a commission extraordinary should be appointed,
what should you think of Mr. Barlow for a member ? He has
managed the negotiation with Algiers with great ability, address,
and zeal, for the interest of his country. Having been formerly
elected a member by the French Convention, he may be deemed
of sufficient respectability. He is even admitted, I take it, to
French citizenship. His talents are unquestionable. I should
sooner confide in him than in Mr. Madison. The other person
named by you I consider as out of the question, because of his
station. Mr. Barlow has no personal antipathies and resent-
ments to gratify — resentments engendered in the collision of
parties at home.

SMITH TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 1st, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I should sooner have acknowledged the receipt of your inter-
esting communication, had I not been informed of your journey
to Albany.

I coincide perfectly in opinion with you as to the expediency
F 16

242 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 40.

of measures of defence and an extraordinary mission. But I see
very considerable difficulty in the measure of a commission, and
still greater in its including Jefferson and Madison. From the
former plan, I foresee embarrassment and increased expense with-
out any benefit. If the majority of the commissioners be Anti-
Gallicans, the party will not be gratified. We place an enemy in
the commission without acquiring their support. If the majority
be Gallicans, we give up the game. There are serious constitu-
tional objections against Jefferson as commissioner, and Madison
has done so much to prostrate this country at the feet of France,
that I fear his appointment would appear humiliating, and give
disgust to our friends. I doubt also whether either of them would
go on this business, unless as sole envoy ; certainly not, unless as
senior commissioner, and this would be harsh to Pinckney, who
has conducted himself well. From these considerations, I have
been induced to think the most dignified and safe mode of doing
this business, would be to send Pinckney a new commission either
as envoy or ambassador extraordinary ; he is near at hand, he is
unexceptionable to all parties. The French have no personal
objections to him, the Jacobins of most of the Southern States
have great confidence in him, and he has made great sacrifices
to go on a mission, which has hitherto been attended with
nothing but mortification.

He is waiting at Amsterdam the orders of the Executive,
probably expecting a commission of envoy extraordinary. It is
not improbable, too, that any thing like slight to him may alienate
more friends than would be acquired by adding to the mission
one of the other party. I have lately met with a report of the
Commissioners of Public Safety, in April '95, which was adopted
by the Convention, on the subject of the different grades of min-
isters, wherein it is stated " that the sending of an ambassador is
peculiarly agreeable to republics, and a particular mark of re-
spect." This report preceded the reception of Be Stael as am-
bassador extraordinary from Sweden. I have shown the Secre-
tary of State the report, and the commission of De Stael. Per-
haps it may be thought expedient to send a commission of
ambassador extraordinary to Gen. Pinckney, and to give weight

JEt.40.] [CORRESPONDENCE. 243

and importance to the mission to add, in the character of secre-
tary to the embassy, some character above the common class of
private secretaries. This last point is, however, only a sugges-
tion of my own. This practice is generally followed in Europe.

I have shown your letter to Tracy, and to Wolcott, and to
McHenry, all of whom applied for the perusal of it, and were
much pleased with every part, except the commission. This
idea does not seem to coincide with the opinions of any of our
friends here.

I leave town to-morrow for a jaunt of a few days to Lancas-
ter, York, &c. On my return I hope to hear from you, and
remain,

Dear Sir,

Yery sincerely yours,

Wm. Smith.

HAMILTON TO HAMILTON.

Albany, State of New- York, May the 2d, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Some days since I received with great pleasure your letter of
the 10th of March. The mark it affords of your kind attention,
and the particular account it gives me of so many relations in
Scotland, are extremely gratifying to me. You no doubt have
understood that my father's affairs at a very early day went to
wreck ; so as to have rendered his situation during the greatest
part of his life far from eligible. This state of things occasioned
a separation between him and me, when I was very young, and
threw me upon the bounty of my mother's relatives, some of
whom were then wealthy, though by vicissitudes to which
human affairs are so liable, they have been since much reduced
and broken up. Myself at about sixteen came to this country.
Having always had a strong propensity to literary pursuits, by a
course of steady and laborious exertion, I was able, by the age of
nineteen, to qualify myself for the degree of Bachelor of Arts in

244 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

the College of New- York, and to lay the foundation by prepara-
tory study for the future profession of the law.

The American Eevolution supervened. My principles led
me to take part in it ; at nineteen I entered into the American
army as Captain of Artillery. Shortly after I became, by his in-
vitation, aid-de-camp to General Washington, in which station I
served till the commencement of that campaign which ended with
the siege of York in Virginia, and the capture of Cornwallis's
army. The campaign I made at the head of a corps of light in-
fantry, with which I was present at the siege of York, and en-
gaged in some interesting operations.

At the period of the peace with Great Britain, I found myself
a member of Congress by appointment of the legislature of
this State.

After the peace, I settled in the city of New-York, in the
practice of the law ; and was in a very lucrative course of prac-
tice, when the derangement of our public affairs, by the feeble-
ness of the general confederation, drew me again reluctantly into
public life. I became a member of the Convention which framed
the present Constitution of the United States ; and having taken
part in this measure, I conceived myself to be under an obligation
to lend my aid towards putting the machine in some regular
motion. Hence I did not hesitate to accept the offer of President
Washington to undertake the office of Secretary of the Treasury.

In that office, I met with many intrinsic difficulties, and many
artificial ones proceeding from passions, not very worthy, com-
mon to human nature, and which act with peculiar force in re-
publics. The object, however, was effected, of establishing pub-
lic credit, and introducing order in the finances.

Public office in this country has few attractions. The pecu-
niary emolument is so inconsiderable, as to amount to a sacrifice
to any man who can employ his time with advantage in any
liberal profession. The opportunity of doing good, from the
jealousy of power and the spirit of faction, is too small in any
station, to warrant a long continuance of private sacrifices. The
enterprises of party had so far succeeded, as materially to weaken
tile necessary influence and energy of the Executive authority,

jEt. 40.] correspondence. 245

and so far diminish the power of doing good in that department,
as greatly to take away the motives which a virtuous man might
have for making sacrifices. The prospect was even bad for
gratifying in future the love of fame, if that passion was to be
the spring of action.

The union of these motives, with the reflections of prudence
in relation to a growing family, determined me as soon as my
plan had attained a certain maturity, to withdraw from office.
This I did by a resignation about two years since, when I re-
sumed the profession of the law in the city of New- York under
every advantage I could desire.

It is a pleasant reflection to me, that since the commencement
of my connection with General Washington to the present time,
I have possessed a flattering share of his confidence and friend-
ship.

Having given you a brief sketch of my political career, I pro-
ceed to some further family details.

In the year 1780, I married the second daughter of General
Schuyler, a gentleman of one of the best families of this country,
of large fortune, and no less personal and political consequence.
It is impossible to be happier than I am in a wife ; and I have
five children, four sons and a daughter, the eldest a son some-
what passed fifteen, who all promise as well as their years per-
mit, and yield me much satisfaction. Though I have been too
much in public life to be wealthy, my situation is extremely
comfortable, and leaves me nothing to wish but a continuance of
health. With this blessing, the profits of my profession and
other prospects authorize an expectation of such addition to my
resources, as will render the eve of life easy and agreeable ; so
far as may depend on this consideration.

It is now several months since I have heard from my father,
who continued at the island of St. Vincents. My anxiety at this
silence would be greater than it is, were it not for the consider-
able interruption and precariousness of intercourse which is pro-
duced by the war.

I have strongly pressed the old gentleman to come and reside
with me, which would afford him every enjoyment of which his

246 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 40.

advanced age is capable ; but he has declined it on the ground
that the advice of his physicians leads him to fear, that the change
of climate would be fatal to him. The next thing for me is, in
proportion to my means, to endeavor to increase his comforts
where he is.

It will give me the greatest pleasure to receive your son Rob-
ert at my house in New- York, and still more to be of use to him ;
to which end, my recommendation and interest will not be want-
ing, and I hope not unavailing. It is my intention to embrace
the opening which your letter affords me to extend my inter-
course with my relations in your country, which will be a nefa
source of satisfaction to me.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

May 11th, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

On my return here I found your letter of the 29th. The sit-
ting of a court of chancery, and important business there, have
unavoidably delayed a reply ; now, it must be much more cursory
than I could wish.

As to the mission, in some shape or other, the more I have
reflected upon it, the more has it appeared to me indispensable.
To accomplish, with certainty, a principal object of it — the
silencing of Jacobin criticism, and promoting union among our-
selves— it is very material to engage in it a person who will have
the Jacobin confidence ; else, if France should still refuse to re-
ceive, or if receiving, the mission should prove unsuccessful, it
will be said that this was because a suitable agent was not em-
ployed. Hence, my mind was led to Jefferson or Madison ; but,
as it would be unsafe to trust either alone, the idea of associates
occurs as an essential part of the plan. This, likewise, is an ex-
pedient for saving Mr. Pinckney's feelings.

But will either of them go on this footing? If offered, and

jEt.40.] correspondence. 247

they refuse, they will put themselves in the wrong ; for on so
great an emergency, they cannot justifiably decline the service
without a good reason ; and it would not be a good reason for
refusal, that there was to be a commission. The refusal, too, if
it happened, would furnish a reply to Jacobin clamor. It was
offered to your leaders, and they would not act.

I confide in Pinckney's integrity and federal attachments;
why, then, name a third? Because, 1st. Two may disagree, and
there may be inaction. 2d. Though I have the confidence I men-
tion, I think Pinckney has had too much French leaning to con-
sider him, in conjunction with Jefferson or Madison, as perfectly
safe. A third on whom perfect reliance could be placed, would
secure Pinckney's co-operation. I do consider him, as in some
sort, a middle character.

As to the two gentlemen named (Jefferson and Madison), it
may be fairly observed to either of them, that the combination of
character is essential to combine the confidence of the country,
and to render the result, whatever it may be, acceptable. It
may also be observed, that delicacy to Mr. Pinckney dictates this
course — not to exclude him after what has happened. To Mr.
Pinckney the state of parties here may also be pleaded.

The French Directory may also be made to understand indi-
rectly that the association has proceeded from a desire in the
Executive to unite confidence in the mission, and secure its
success at home.

I should not despair that in such a crisis men of opposite
politics might agree. I verily believe that Jefferson, Pinckney,
and King, would agree. There might be a joint commission for
action, and a separate commission to Jefferson, as envoy or am-
bassador extraordinary for representation.

I miscalculate if Jefferson will not be anxious for peace. I
only fear that alone he would give too much for it.

If this plan is thought liable to too strong objections — the
next best thing is to send the commission of ambassador extraor-
dinary to Pinckney ; and send him also some clever fellow as sec-
retary of embassy.

But I repeat it with extreme solicitude — another mission is
absolutely indispensable.

248 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 40.

On the subject of permitting our vessels to arm, there is some
difficulty. You are right in the idea that merchant vessels under
the convoy of ships of war, are exempt from search. But I
know no book where it is to be found. Yet, I have so constantly
understood it to be the usage, that I venture to rely upon it.
But I believe the privilege is confined to public ships of war, and
could not, according to usage, be transferred to private armed
vessels. The measure must, therefore, be justified by the extre-
mity.

Moreover, I understand no other consequence as resulting from
the being armed, than that it exposes the vessel to confiscation
for resisting a search. It is no breach of neutrality to permit the
being armed.

But I would avoid the formality of a commission, and would
substitute some permit, perhaps to be signed by the head of a
department. This should be united with great precautions to
prevent abuse by cruising, by driving contraband trade by trans-
fers to foreigners.

At all events our trade must have protection. For our whole
mercantile capital will else be destroyed, our seamen lost, and our
country involved in extreme distress.

As to a provisional army, I reason thus : — no plan of a militia,
which is not the equivalent, in other words, which is not under a
positive engagement to constitute a permanent army in case of
invasion, will be worth any thing. For we want a stable force
created beforehand to oppose to the first torrent, which, with
mere militia, would involve incalculable dangers and calamities.
Hence, as a substitute for a standing army, I offer a provisional
one. It would be composed thus : — the officers to be appointed by
the United States and rank with those of the establishment, to re-
ceive some pay till called into actual service, say half, a third, or
a fourth ; those employed to recruit to be fully paid.

The men to be regularly enlisted, upon condition not to be
called into actual service, except in case of invasion, and then to
serve during the war ; to receive a uniform coat, and a dollar,
perhaps two dollars per month when not in the field — to be obliged
to assemble for exercise so many days in the year, and then to

jEt.40.] correspondence. 249

have full pay and rations. When called into actual service to
have the same compensations, &c., with the establishment; in
short, to become part of it. To be armed by the United States ;
to be liable from the beginning to the articles of war.

I think such a corps, from the certainty of advantage, and the
uncertainty of service, might be engaged sooner than a standing
force, and, with precautions in the enlistment, would be a solid
resource in case of need.

I am much attached to the idea of a large corps of efficient
cavalry ; and I cannot allow this character to militia. It is all
important to an undisciplined against a disciplined army. It is
a species of force not easy to be brought by an invader — by
which his supplies may be cut off, and his activity extremely
checked. Were I to command an undisciplined army, I should
prefer half the force with a good corps of cavalry to twice the
force without one.

Yours truly.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

Saturday, May 13, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Mr. Goodhue takes on with him a Boston paper, the printer
of which states that he has obtained, by a ship just arrived, a
London paper of March 24th ; mentioning in positive terms an
account just received from the Emperor, that in consequence of
a combination between Prussia and France, he is driven to the
necessity of making an immediate peace for the safety of the empire ;
that in consequence of this, the king, who was at Windsor, had
been sent for, &c, &c.

The manner of announcing it is too positive to allow much
doubt that the thing is substantially true.

This intelligence confirms the expediency of a further at-
tempt to negotiate, but I hope it will not carry us too far. A firm
and erect countenance must be maintained, and the vigor of pre-

250 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 40.

paration increased. Safety can only be found in uniting energy
with moderation. Honor certainly is only to be found there ;
and either as a man or citizen, I, for one, had rather perish than
Bubmit to disgrace.

Yours, &c.

A. Hamilton.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON".

Philadelphia, 14th May, 1797.

My Dear Hamilton:

I received your letters and papers. I added to them, but
changed nothing, for the train of ideas in both ran in the same
channel, and embraced the same objects.

The speech extenuates nought — recommends proper mea-
sures, promises a fresh attempt at negotiation, and declares the
principles by which administration mean to be governed — in
other words, that the President will follow the principles of the
late administration.

It is not perhaps precisely such a speech as you would have
written — a little too plain. It may, however, be better fitted on
that account for the occasion.

Your affectionate, &c.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 15th May, 1797.

My Dear Hamilton:

I wrote you a line yesterday, acknowledging the receipt of
your two letters from Albany.

I expect that there will be a quorum of both branches to-day.

It appears that the news of the Emperor of Germany having

jEt.40.] correspondence. 251

signified his intention to make peace, was unfounded. Had it
even been so, it ought to have augmented our endeavors to
meet hostility.

It is probable that a new character will be given to Pinckney,
and a secretary to the mission.

Yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 5, 1797.

Dear Sir:

The answer from the President to the Commander in Chief,
&c, contains in the close a very indifferent passage. The senti-
ment is intemperate and revolutionary. It is not for us, particu-
larly for the government, to breathe an irregular or violent
spirit. Hitherto I have much liked the President's answers, as
in the main within proper bounds, and calculated to animate
and raise the public mind. But there are limits which must not
be passed ; and, from my knowledge of the ardor of the Presi-
dent's mind, and this specimen of the effects of that ardor, I
begin to be apprehensive that he may run into indiscretion.
This will do harm to the government, to the cause, and to himself.
Some hint must be given, for we must make no mistakes.

Inclosed is a sketch of some ideas which have run through
my mind ; they are perhaps none of them new, but they are
offered as the evidence of my opinion on the points. As yet,
we are far short of the point of vigor.

252 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 40.

HAMILTON TO KING.

June 6, 1797.

I thank you, my dear sir, for two letters lately received from
you, the last by Mr. Church. I feel very guilty for my negli-
gence. But how can I help it?

The public prints will inform you of the course of public
proceedings hitherto. You will perceive that the general plan
is analogous to what was done in the case of Great Britain,
though there are faults in the detail. Some people cannot learn
that the only force which befits a government is in the thought
and action, not in the words, and many reverse the golden rule.
I fear we shall do ourselves no honor in the result, and we shall
remain at the mercy of events, without those efficient prepara-
tions which are demanded by so precarious situation; and
which, not provoking war, would put us in condition to meet
it. All the consolation I can give is, that the public temper of
this country mends daily, and that there is no final danger of
our submitting tamely to the yoke of France.

Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 6th, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

You some time ago put a question to me which through
hurry I never answered, viz. — whether there can be any dis-
tinction between the provision in the treaty with Great Britain
respecting British debts and that respecting spoliations as to the
power of the commissioners to rejudge the decisions of the courts.
I answer that I can discover none.

I am of opinion, however, that in the exercise of this power
two principles ought to be strenuously insisted upon. One — that

^t.40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 253

the commissioners ought not to intermeddle but -when it is un-
equivocally ascertained that justice cannot be obtained through
our courts. The other — that there ought to be no revision of
the question of interest when abatements were made by juries
undirected by any special statute. For it is certain that interest
is capable of being affected by circumstances, and that the law
leaves a considerable discretion on this point with juries. I take
for granted also, that, where compromises were made between
creditor and debtor without the intervention of courts, or the in-
junctions of positive law, there will be no revision. This is all a
very delicate subject, one upon which great moderation on the
part of the British commissioners is very important to future
harmony.

I like very well the course of Executive conduct in regard to
the controversy with France, and I like the answer of the Senate
in regard to the President's speech.

But I confess, I have not been well satisfied with the answer
reported in the House. It contains too many hard expressions ;
and hard words are very rarely useful in public proceedings.
Mr. Jay and other friends here have been struck in the same
manner with myself. "We shall not regret to see the answer
softened down. Real firmness is good for every thing. Strut is
good for nothing.

Last session I sent Sedgwick, with request to communicate
to you, my proposal of a building tax. Inclosed is the rough
sketch. I do not know if there was any alteration in the copy
sent to him.

But the more I reflect, the more I become convinced that
some such plan ought to be adopted, and the idea of valuation
dropped, and I have also become convinced that the idea of a
tax on land ought to be deferred. The building tax can be
accommodated to the quota-rule. For what were intended as
rates may be considered as ratios of each individual tax, and then,
as the aggregate of these ratios on a particular building, so will
the sum to be raised by the State be the sum to be paid by the
owner of that building, and so the very bad business of valua-
tions may be avoided in general. In regard to stores, if they are

254 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 40.

comprehended, rents or valuations may be adopted, and these
rents may be represented by ratios equivalent to the proportion
of the specific ratios to the rents of houses to be estimated in the
law.

If these ideas are not clear I will on your advice give a
further explanation.

My plan of ways and means then for the present would be :
A tax on buildings equal to .... $1,000,000

On stamps, including a small percentage
on policies of insurance and a percentage
on collateral successions, . . . 500,000

A duty on hats, say 5 per cent, for the commonest
kind, 10 per cent, for the middling, and 20
for the best, to be decided by the materials.

On saddle horses dollars per horse, . 150,000

On salt, so much as will make the whole

duty 25 cents — suppose, . . . 350,000

$2,000,000

I should like also a remodification of the duties on licenses
to sell spirituous liquors by multiplying discriminations.

I would then open a loan for 5,000,000 of dollars, to be repaid
absolutely within five years, upon which I would allow a high
interest, say 8 per cent., payable quarterly, and redeemable at
pleasure by paying off, and I would accept subscriptions as low
as $100. In case of pressure, Treasury bills having a like inter-
est may be used.

If unfortunately war break out, then every practicable object
of taxation should at once be seized hold of, so as to carry our
revenue in the first instance to the extent of our ability. Nor is
the field narrow.

I give you my ideas full gallop and without management of
expression. I hope you always understand me right, as they
are intended in the spirit of friendly frankness.

Yours very truly,

A. Hamilton.

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 255

A million of dollars per annum on buildings and lands on the
following plan.

1st. Upon inhabited dwelling-houses thus : —

Upon every such house of the denomination and description
of a log house, at the rate of 20 cents for each room or apartment
thereof, exclusive of garret and cellar.

Upon every other inhabited dwelling-house of two rooms or
apartments, exclusive of halls or entries, garrets and cellars, at
the rate of 25 cents for each room or apartment.

Upon every such house of three rooms or apartments, ex-
clusive as before, at the rate of 33 1 cents for each room or
apartment.

Upon every such house of four rooms, exclusive as before, at
the rate of 40 cents for each room or apartment.

Upon every such house of five rooms, exclusive as before, at
the rate of 60 cents for each room or apartment.

Upon every such house of six rooms, exclusive as before, at
the rate of 75 cents for each room or apartment thereof.

Upon every such house of seven rooms and upwards, at the
rate of 100 cents for each room, &c.

Remarks. — These rates have been adjusted by applying their
operation to a number of houses, from which it appears that
they find a sufficiently exact proportion to the rent, and they
avoid the expense and uncertainty of valuation. Other circum-
stances of discrimination, if thought advised, may be added.

Upon every room in a garret or cellar of a house of the fore-
going descriptions, having a fireplace, and upon any kitchen,
whether in a cellar or adjacent building, at the rate of 20 cents
for each room or kitchen.

Upon each room or apartment of every such house painted
inside, the further sum of 25 cents.

Upon each room or apartment of such house papered inside,
or painted and bordered with paper, the further sum of 50 cents.

Upon every chimney, faced with tiles or cut stone other than
marble, the further sum of 50 cents.

Upon every chimney faced wTith marble, the further sum of
100 cents.

256 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

Upon every stair-case of cedar or ebony wood, the further
sum of 50 cents.

Upon every stair-case of mahogany wood, the further sum of
100 cents.

Upon every room or apartment with stucco cornices, the fur-
ther sum of 100 cents.

Upon every room with a stucco ceiling, the further sum of
200 cents ; but the same room shall not also be rated for cornices
of such work.

Upon every such house with pillars or pilasters outside in
front, the further sum of 100 cents.

Upon every such house faced outside and in front, in whole
or in part with marble, the further sum of 200 cents.

These rates to be paid by the occupiers of the house, whether
owners or tenants. When a house is let by parcels the landlord
to be deemed the occupier.

Upon all stone houses not being parts of dwelling houses in
use, at the rate of one-fortieth part of the yearly value, to be de-
termined by the actual rent if rented, and if not by an estimate
or valuation thereof.

Upon all grist-mills, at the rate of 125 cents for each run of
stone therein.

Upon all saw-mills, at the rate of 50 cents for each saw usu-
ally worked therein, not exceeding three, and for each saw above
that number 25 cents.

Upon all wharves in the cities and towns of Portsmouth, Bos-
ton, &c, (enumerating the principal towns,) at the rate of 12=
cents for each foot in front thereof.

Upon all wharves in any other city or town at the rate of
6 cents.

Remarks. — Or this may be thrown into classes.

Upon all lumber yards in the cities or towns of Portsmouth,
Boston, &c. (enumerating the principal towns,) at the rate of 2|
cents for each hundred square feet.

Cottages inhabited by paupers to be excepted, to be judged
of and ascertained by the assessors hereinafter described.

jEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 257

The amount of the foregoing taxes in each State, to be ascer-
tained within a time to be limited by law for that purpose by the
assessors, and a report thereof to be made to the Treasury, which
shall then proceed to apportion, according to the prescribed quota,
the sum remaining to make up the million of dollars to be
levied.

For example, suppose there were five States, and the product
of the house-tax of each as follows :

A.

$100,000.

B.

150,000.

C.

200,000.

D.

50,000.

E.

100.000.

$600,000.
There would then remain towards the million to be levied on
lands $400,000. Let there be then assigned to each State so
much in land-tax as together with its house-tax will equal the *

Remarks. — The mode of ascertaining to be by an actual calling
at each house, and receiving of the occupiers a list of the par-
ticulars which are criterions of the tax; the officer to have power
to administer an oath.

A proper penalty to be annexed to misrepresentation, and a
power to be given upon cause of suspicion testified on oath, to
issue a warrant to inspect the house for ascertaining the fact.
This will reconcile the idea of the sanctity oi the castle with the
security of the revenue.

* The paper is incomplete.
F 17

258 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

WILLIAMS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 7tli June, 1797.

Sir:

We shall be this day engaged on the subject of regulating the
arming of merchantmen. A difficulty ariseth with me respect-
ing the construction of our treaty with France. Our vessels will
claim a right as the treaty with France expresseth. The French
will exact the decree of 2d March last. Hence, both will be au-
thorized by their respective nations, and which will be diametri-
cally opposite each other.

Again, Victor Hugo has declared all American vessels taken
armed shall be treated as pirates.

Thus, while on the one hand our commerce suffers, and on
the other it is susceptible of commencing a misunderstanding
which will probably lead to a war — which ought to be avoided —
no talk of embargo — only giving the Executive the power in case
of emergency.

We shall direct the completion of fortifications, but believe
will only order the frigates finished, and probably manned.

Do not believe we shall purchase vessels for war, or order
convoys.

As it (in my opinion) behoves us to act with caution, till we
learn the event of the negotiation, I am at present for pursuing
the same measures as in the year 1794.

Should the negotiation fail, and France not be satisfied with
being put on an equal footing with other nations — we shall be
unanimous in our opposition.

Any remarks on these subjects, or any other, will be thank-
fully received by your humble servant,

John Williams.

^t. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 259

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 8, 179 .

Dear Sir:

I have received your two letters of the sixth and seventh.
The last announced to me no more than I feared. Nor do I
believe any sufficient external impulse can be given to save us
from disgrace. This, however, will be thought of.

I regret that you appear remote from the idea of a house tax
simply, without combining the land. I do not differ from your
general principle. The truth is, a solid one, that the sound state
of the political economy depends, in a great degree, on a general
repartition of taxes on taxable property, by some equal rule.
But it is very important to relax in theory, so as to accomplish
as much as may be practicable. I despair of a general land tax,
without actual war. I fear the idea of it ; it keeps men back
from the augmentation of revenue by other means which they
might be willing to adopt. The idea of a house tax alone, is not
so formidable. If placed upon a footing which would evince
practicability and moderation in the sum, I think it might suc-
ceed. Now one million of dollars, computing the number of
houses at six hundred thousand, would be an average of about a
dollar and a half. The tax would be very low on the worst
houses, and could not be high on the best. This idea would
smooth a great deal.

As to the circumstance of the habitations of the southern
negroes, I see no improbable difficulty in applying ratios to them,
which would tend to individual equity. As between the States,
the quota principle would make this point unimportant.

As to the inequality in certain States, I believe, on the plan
suggested, there could be no general tax which in fact would
operate more equally. The idea of equalization by embracing
lands, does not much engage my confidence. Besides that, this
may be an after-object, and we are to gain points successively.

As to the productiveness of the stamp tax, with the items I
suggest, it is difficult, in the first instance, to judge. But I am

260 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

persuaded it would go far towards the point aimed at. There
cannot be much fewer than three millions of hats consumed in a
year in this country. At an average of eight cents per hat, this
would be two hundred and forty thousand dollars ; a large pro-
portion of the five hundred thousand dollars. If law proceedings
can be included, directly or indirectly, the produce will be very
considerable. I think you mistake when you say these taxes in
England are inconsiderable in proportion. According to my
recollection, the reverse is the truth.

Adieu.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, June 27, 1797.

Dear Sir:

Lord Malmesbury will leave London in three or four days for
Lisle, where the conferences between this country and France are
to be held. Opinions fluctuate concerning the probability of
peace. A struggle evidently exists in France between the Direc-
tory and the Legislature ; in the latter of which bodies, it is
supposed, there is a sincere desire of peace.

Some late proceedings in the Legislature, or rather in the
Council of Five Hundred, give occasion to hope that our affairs
are in train to assume a more friendly appearance.

If, as many assert, the public opinion is friendly to America,
it will be employed by the Legislature against the Directory,
which at this moment is viewed as a rival power. We have just
received the President's speech ; it has arrived at a critical hour.
You will perceive by the newspapers that all Italy will be over-
turned. Venice is no more; and Genoa has been completely
revolutionized by citizen Faypoult, the minister of France.

Portugal sees, but seems unable to escape her fate.

Though these are days of wonder, still one dares not be-
lieve all we hear. The march already made by France has
astonished and confounded almost every beholder — and we are

JEt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 261

told that she meditates and will attempt projects still more gigan-
tic than those she has executed — plans which will operate a
change in the whole face of Europe, and which extend to every
other quarter of the globe. Eussia may be able to preserve her
dominions from the fire that is passing over the neighboring
countries. This nation has lately renewed her commercial treaty
with Eussia, and by an arrangement of their mutual interests
may strengthen their common defence. It may be worth remark-
ing, that during this negotiation Eussia never even proposed the
project of the armed neutrality, so that the omission of the
requisite provisions on that subject may be considered as an
abandonment of the system by Eussia.

Eussia is to be treated in the British ports upon the same
footing as the most favored European nation. Farewell.

Yours, etc.

CHURCH TO HAMILTON".

July 13th, 1797.
Frauncis told me that Giles, Madison, and Findley, had fre-
quent meetings at his brother's house, and that they used a
variety of persuasions to prevail on him to accuse you of being
concerned with Eeynolds in speculation of certificates. I sup-
pose Munroe will be at Philadelphia to-morrow, and I think,
from what I observed yesterday, that he is inclined to be very
gentle, and that he is much embarrassed how to get out of the
scrape in which he has involved himself.

John Barker Church.

262 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

KING TO HAMILTON.

Londok, August Gth, 1797.

Dear Sir:

No satisfactory opinion can yet be formed concerning the
termination of the negotiations for peace. Even those who are
supposed to have the best information are without confidence.
On the one hand, peace may be concluded sooner than any one
thinks probable ; on the other, the negotiations at Lisle and at
Montebello, may be suddenly broken off, and France again en-
gaged with Austria, as well as England. A great struggle, in
which all Europe think themselves interested, exists between
the two Councils and a majority of the Directory, for it is well
understood that almost every question is decided in this latter
body by three against two. If the Councils prevail, peace is
believed to be more probable ; if the war continues, Denmark
and the neighboring free cities, Portugal, perhaps Switzerland,
and even Greece, as well as the whole of Italy, will be revolu-
tionized. I wish I could write to you with the same freedom
as we could converse. How far the new order of things is to
extend, which are still to be overturned, and who are to be
spared, is a subject concerning which we may amuse ourselves
with conjectures. It would be a consolation could we any
where discover a mind of adequate foresight and authority, to
influence, combine, and apply to their proper and legitimate
uses, the disposition and the means which unquestionably exist
to resist and baffle the monstrous force which overturns, and will
continue to lay waste every country against which it bends its
energies. Paradoxical as it may appear, the people are less
wrong than their governments, which, every where, seem to be
destitute of both wisdom and courage. I cannot except even
the government of this country, which possessing the command
of the resources of the richest nation in Europe, with a clear and
distinct view of the total insecurity of any compromise with
their enemy, still dismounts and lowers the national spirit and
courage by fruitless and repeated efforts to restore peace. Men

iEx.40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 263

are mortal, and by a law to which they are subject can exist but
for a limited time. Societies are exempt from this law, and
there is nothing in their nature that limits their improvement, in
duration ; still the analogy is but too strict, and we seem to be
doomed to witness, if not to suffer, in the dissolution of the pre-
sent social organization.

Farewell. When I am able to give you a gayer prospect I
will write you again.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, August 21st, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Not for any intrinsic value the thing possesses, but as a token
of my sincere regard and friendship for you, and as a remem-
brance of me, I pray you to accept a wine cooler for four bot-
tles, which Colonel Biddle is directed to forward from Philadel-
phia, (where with other articles it was left,) together with this
letter to your address. It is one of four which I imported in the
early part of my late administration of the government; two
only of which were ever used.

I pray you to present my best wishes, in which Mrs. Wash-
ington joins me, to Mrs. Hamilton and the family; and that you
would be persuaded, that with every sentiment of the highest
regard,

I remain your sincere friend,

And affectionate humble servant,

Geo. Washington.

264 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

August 27, 1797.

Deae Sir :

Some time since I received the inclosed, being directions con-
cerning measures requisite to be pursued to obtain indemnifica-
tion in cases of capture by British cruisers. I laid it by in haste,
and have since overlooked it. I do not recollect to have seen it
in the newspapers, and yet it appeared to me necessary that it
should be so. As it came to me from some one of our public
characters in London, I presume you must have received the
equivalent. I am curious to know if this has been the case, and
if any thing has been done upon it.

After perusal, and making such use as you

may think proper, you will oblige me by returning it.

Yours truly, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, August 28, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

The receipt two days since of your letter of the 21st inst.,
gave me sincere pleasure. The token of your .regard which it
announces, is very precious to me, and will always be remem-
bered as it ought to be.

Mrs. Hamilton has lately added another boy to our stock ;
she and the child are both well. She desires to be affectionately
remembered to Mrs. Washington and yourself.

We have nothing new here more than our papers contain,
but are anxiously looking forward to a further development of
the negotiations in Europe, with an ardent desire for general
accommodation. It is at the same time agreeable to observe,
that the public mind is adopting, more and more, sentiments
truly American, and free from foreign tincture.

Mt. 40.] CORRESPONDENCE. 265

I beg my best respects to Mrs. Washington, and that you
will always be assured of the most respectful and affectionate
attachment of, dear Sir, &c.

KING TO HAMILTON".

London, September 9th, 1797.

Dear Sir:

We have this day accounts from Paris, which, though very
important and interesting, are not unexpected. The breach
between the Councils and the Directory has for some time de-
stroyed all prospect of a reconciliation between them ; and either
an organized oivil war, in consequence of the different sides
adopted by the several armies, or a measure like that which has
happened, had become inevitable. The march of a considerable
division of the army into the interior, the removals of generals
in whom they did not confide, the various messages in the style
of manifestoes addressed to the Councils, and the sending for
General Jourdan, who commanded the army of the Ehine, to
Paris, and putting his army in the interim of his absence under
Hoche, are now explained.

Augereau, who had been called from Italy for the purpose,
upon the alarm-cannon being fired on the morning of the 4th
instant, marched his troops, and surrounded, without opposition,
the place of sitting of the Council of 500. He then proceeded to
arrest Pichegru, and a considerable number of the other most
influential members of that Council, on the charge of a royalist
conspiracy ; having for its object the massacre of three of the
Directory, to make way for successors who would place Louis
XVIII. on the throne of France. Carnot, say the same advices,
has fled ; and Barthelemy, say others, is also arrested. I do not
give you this account as authentic, though I have little doubt
that it is so, as far, at least, as it states an attack of the Directory
upon the Council of 500.

266 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

If the consequence of this proceeding was confined to France,
it would be less the subject of regret, though all must deplore
the sanguinary scenes so frequently there exhibited ; but in
reference to the pending negotiations and the return of peace,
this transaction is very important. The two Councils, who, in
this respect, are supposed to have faithfully represented their
constituents, desired peace with sincerity ; the Directory most
certainly differed from them in their inclinations on this subject.
If the Directory overwhelm the Councils, the war must, and
will continue. But how will the armies — how will the nations
conduct on this occasion ? I fear there is little consolation to
the friends of humanity from the doubt, which for a moment
exists on these points — the nations are nothing, the armies are
most probably secured, and the Directory will triumph. Adieu.

Yours, &c.

P. S. If I do not forget names, a majority of the committee to
whom Pastoret's speech on our affairs was referred, are among
the members now arrested. You will readily see how mis-
chievous to us this success of the Directory may and probably
will be.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 8th October, 1797.

My Dear Sir :

The ardent desire which Mr. La Fayette feels to embrace his
parents and sisters in the first moments of their liberation, in-
duces him to set out for New- York, or further eastward, in search
of a passage to France.

It was my opinion, that he had better have awaited authentic
accounts of this event ; but his eagerness to see his friends — the
fear of a winter passage, and a conviction that he is under no
predicament that would render his reception in France at all

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 267

embarrassing to him, even if he should be disappointed in meet-
ing his friends there, has prevailed.

I am sure it is unnecessary that I should recommend him and
Mr. Frestel to your civilities, while they may be detained in
New-York, or to your aid in procuring them a passage to
France ; but I will request, if circumstances should call for
greater pecuniary means than they possess, that you would be so
good as to furnish them, and draw upon me for the amount, and
it shall be paid at sight.

Present Mrs. Washington and myself in the most affectionate
manner to Mrs. Hamilton, and be assured always of the very
high esteem and regard with which I am yours,

George Washington.

HAMILTON TO MHENRY.

February 13, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Yours of yesterday, with its inclosure, are come to hand, and
will be attended to as speedily as possible.

I take the liberty to trouble you with the inclosed to receive
the amount (which, though the accumulated interest on all my
stock from the beginning of the funding system, will be short
of 200 dollars). When received pay yourself one hundred ; our
friend Lewis, seven ; and deliver the rest to Wolcott, who has
lately been paying for some books for me.

This idea draws my attention to this little object, as the sum
is not worth retaining, it has induced me to make sale of the prin-
cipal to Le Eoy Bayard and McEvers. While at the notary's, and
not having previously consulted them, I put your name in the
power to transfer the stock. This power they will send you.
Pray, comply with it, and excuse the almost indecorum on my
part.

Yours truly, &c.

268 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

SMITH TO HAMILTON.

February 14, 1798.

Sir:

The New- York Society for promoting the Manumission of
Slaves, at their stated meeting in January last, directed the refer-
ence of the two following articles (of a report then made to them
by their committee on the circular address of the last conven-
tion) to the counsellors of the society.

" Article 1st. To transmit copies to the ensuing convention,
of any laws relative to slaves, which may be enacted by the legis-
lature of this State, previous to the session of the said convention,
and since the convention of 1797."

Article 5th (of the report). " To give information to the
convention of the exertions, and of their issue, which have been
made by this society, to obtain a repeal or amelioration of the
laws relative to slaves."

The report represents these as duties to be fulfilled by the
society ; which they have accordingly determined to execute,
and for this purpose have ordered this reference to their coun-
sellors, who are further directed " to prepare their report
thereon, with all convenient dispatch ; and, when prepared, to
deliver it over to such persons as may hereafter be chosen to
represent the society in the convention, to be held in June,
1798."

The other members of the counsel of the society, of which
you are first named, are Peter Jay Munro, William Johnson, and
Martin S. Wilkins, Esquires.

I am respectfully yours,

E. H. Smith, Secretary.

jEt.41.] correspondence. 269

HAMILTON TO KING.

[Probably March, 1798.]
It is a great while, my dear friend, since I have written to
you a line. You will not, I am sure, impute my silence to any
cause impeaching my friendship, for that must be always cordial
and entire. The truth is, that my professional avocations occupy
me to the extent of the exertions my health permit, and I have
been unwilling to sit down to write you without leisure to say
something interesting. But I now depart from the rule, that my
persevering silence may not make me sin beyond redemption. I
have, however, only time to tell you that your friends are gener-
ally well, and as much attached to you as ever ; and that I hear
of no cabals against you.

Being just returned from Albany, I would say nothing about
the political juncture as it is affected by the unpleasant advices
from our commissioners in France. I will only say, that the
public mind is much sounder than that of our representatives in
the national council, and that there is no danger of our entirely
disgracing ourselves — that is, by any unworthy compliances with
the exorbitant pretensions of " The Great Monster."*

Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, March 17th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I make no apology for offering you my opinion on the present
state of our affairs.

I look upon the question before the public as nothing less
than whether we shall maintain our independence; and I am

* Soi-disaat, " The Great Nation."

270 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 41.

prepared to do it in every event, and at every hazard. I am
therefore of opinion, that our Executive should come forth on
this basis.

I wish to see a temperate, but grave, solemn, and firm commu-
nication from the President to the two Houses on the result of
the advices from our commissioners ; this communication to re-
view summarily the course of our affairs with France from the
beginning to the present moment ; to advert to her conduct
towards the neutral powers generally, dwelling emphatically on
the last decree respecting vessels carrying British manufactures,
as an unequivocal act of hostility against all of them ; to allude
to the dangerous and vast projects of the French government;
to consider her refusal to receive our ministers as a virtual denial
of our independence, and as evidence that, if circumstances favor
the plan, we shall be called to defend that independence, our
political institutions, and our liberty, against her enterprises ; to
conclude, that leaving still the door to accommodation open, and
not proceeding to final rupture, our duty, our honor, and safety,
require that we shall take vigorous and comprehensive measures
of defence, adequate to the immediate protection of our commerce,
to the security of our ports, and to our eventual defence in case of
invasion, and with a view to these great objects, calling forth and
organizing all the resources of the country. I would, at the same
time, have the President to recommend a day of fasting, humilia-
tion, and prayer. The occasion renders it proper, and religious
ideas will be useful. I have this last measure at heart.

The measures to be advocated by our friends in Congress to
be these :

I. Permission to our merchant vessels to arm and to capture
those which may attack them.

II. The completion of our frigates, and the provision of a con-
siderable number of sloops-of-war not exceeding twenty guns.
Authority to capture all attacking, and privateers found within
twenty leagues of our coast.

III. Power to the President, in general terms, to provide
and equip ten ships of the line in case of open rupture with any
foreign power.

jEt.4L] correspondence. 271

IY. The increase of our military establishment to twenty
thousand, and a provisional army of thirty thousand, besides the
militia.

Y. The efficacious fortification of our principal ports, say,
Portsmouth, Boston, Newport, New London, New- York, Phila-
delphia, Norfolk, Baltimore, Wilmington, N. C, Charleston, Sa-
vannah. It is waste of money to be more diffusive.

VI. The extension of our revenue to all the principal objects
of taxation, and a loan commensurate with the contemplated ex-
penditures.

VII. The suspension of our treaties with France till a basis of
connection shall be re-established by treaty.

In my opinion, bold language and bold measures are indis-
pensable. The attitude of calm defiance suits us. It is vain to
talk of peace with a power with which we are actually in hos-
tility. The election is between a tame surrender of our rights or
a state of mitigated hostility. Neither do I think that this state
will lead to general rupture, if France is unsuccessful ; and if
successful, there is no doubt in my mind, that she will endeavor
to impose her yoke upon us.

Yours, with true esteem,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. If Eobert Troup resigns his office of district judge,
the President cannot make a better choice than of Samuel
Jones, Esq., the present Comptroller of the State. I understand
he will accept.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

[Post-marked March 23, 1798.]

My Dear Sir:

I understand that the Senate have called upon the President
for papers. Nothing certainly can be more proper ; and such is

272 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 41.

the universal opinion here ; and it appears to me essential that so
much as possibly can, be communicated. Confidence will other-
wise be wanting, and criticism will ensue which it will be diffi-
cult to repel. The observation is, that Congress are called upon
to discharge the most important of all their functions, and that it
is too much to expect that they will rely on the influence of the
Executive from materials which may be put before them. The
recent examples of the British King are cited. Pray let all that
is possible be done.

Yours truly, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 25th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

The inclosed I wrote last evening for your information. This
morning I received your open letter of the 23d. As soon as a
vessel shall be dispatched for France with letters of recall to our
envoys, I presume the President will communicate their letters
to Congress, whether demanded or not. If the envoys, or any of
them, should be found in France (of which there is a bare possi-
bility), they are to demand their passports and return, unless
they shall have concluded a treaty, or are actually in treaty with
persons vested with equal powers, and that the treaty proceeds
with candor on the part of the French government.

This vessel will probably sail the ensuing Thursday.

What shall we say to the British government? You hint at
nothing. The opposition party have often insinuted that a treaty,
offensive and defensive, has doubtless been already concluded
with Great Britain. A friend of mine yesterday told me that he
was asked if such a treaty had not arrived. The truth is, that
not one syllable has been written to Mr. King, or any one else
upon the subject. I confess it to have been for some time my
opinion, that provisional orders should be sent to Mr. King. Mr.

jEt.4L] correspondence. 273

King, in one of his latest letters, desires to be particularly in-
structed. The dispatch boat may be directed to go from France
to England with such instructions (which will be in cypher), or
may go directly to Falmouth, and there may ascertain whether
our envoys are or are not in France. Your ideas communicated
to me on this subject, and on the facts stated in the inclosed,
will be highly acceptable to me. I wish to receive them on
Wednesday.

Very truly and respectfully yours, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 25th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I duly received your' letter of the 17th. No apology will be
necessary for a communication of your opinion at any time, and
at the present crisis your opinion is particularly acceptable.

Prior to the receipt of your letter, the President had deter-
mined to recommend the observance of a general fast, and had
desired one or both the chaplains of Congress to prepare the
draft of a proclamation. This has since been issued.

The idea of a solemn and firm communication from the Presi-
dent to the two Houses of Congress on the state of our affairs
with France, had occurred to me, with this addition, that it
might be more impressive if delivered personally by the Presi-
dent himself from the speaker's chair, as at the opening of a ses-
sion ; that this speech should comprehend as brief a statement of
our relations to France as would consist with an adequate repre-
sentation of our good faith, and of her perfidy and hostile acts from
the commencement of the French Eevolution to the present mo-
ment. This paper should be prepared by me. I wish I were
able to do full justice to the subject. A proper time to deliver
this communication would be when the letters from our envoys
should be laid before Congress ; for a motion has been made in
p 18

274 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 41.

the Senate for that purpose, and it is expected a like motion will
be made in the House ; but, independently of these motions, it is
really desirable that not Congress only, but the people at large,
should know the conduct of the French government towards our
envoys, and the abominable corruption of that government, to-
gether with their enormous demands for money. These are so
monstrous as to shock every reasonable man when he shall know
them. It was pretended that the Directory was rashly exasper-
ated against the American government for some expressions in
the President's speech to Congress on the 16th of May last, and
that those expressions, or their application to the government of
France, must be disavowed. This, however, was a bold pretence,
only as the means of extorting money. Yes ; for after it had
been said, that the Directory, for its own honor and the honor of the
Republic, would insist on this reparation, our envoys were plainly
told that there was a practicable substitute, more valuable than
both. They asked what? Money! money! was the answer.
This reparation, when it should be made, was only paving the
way for new, and, I may say, unlimited demands for more money,
— a sum equal to all the spoliations of the French on our com-
merce. To enable the Republic to pay our merchants ? No ! for
the present use of the Eepublic. Then a mode might be agreed
on for the liquidation of the merchant claims, to be compensated
at some future period; and in the mean time, until the treaty
should be concluded (which that government might procrastinate
indefinitely), their depredations were not to be restrained. Be-
sides this, we must purchase promptly thirty-two millions of
Dutch inscriptions (12,800,000 dollars) at par, and rely on the
existence and ability of the Batavian Republic to redeem them.
The sum of all was, in the words of the agent, " II faut de l'argent,
il faut beaucoup d' argent ;" and, without this, our envoys were
explicitly told by the secret but unofficial agents, that, if they
remained in Paris six months longer, they would not advance
one step.

You will be aware that I communicate these important facts
to you in perfect confidence, for as you interest yourself so deeply in
public affairs, and are so obliging as to communicate your opinions,

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 275

I thought you should be possessed of facts. I communicate them
of myself without the privity of any one.

Yet after all these inadmissible demands, and the peremptory
declaration with which I closed the above detail, the envoys
meant to make one more formal application by letter to Talley-
rand on the 10th of January, two days after their last letter to me,
which you have seen was communicated to Congress, and in which
they say "there existed no hope of their being officially received
or in any way accomplishing the object of their mission." These
objects they meant to state, and discuss, as if they had been
formally received. There is but one solution of this measure of
the envoys, and of their long suffering patience in their mortify-
ing situation : to convince all their countrymen that it was not
possible to adjust our differences with the present government of
France. "We do not know the result of this intended application,
nor whether the envoys have left France ; and it is these uncer-
tainties which prevented the President's displaying this scene of
insults, extortion, ambition, and iniquity, by communicating the
envoys' letters before Congress and the country.

I must assure you further, that Portugal purchased her peace,
that the very money paid by her in hand enabled the triumvirs,
in the Directory, to march troops and effect the Ee volution of
September 4th ; and yet, the day after they received their in-
telligence of the peace finally concluded with the Emperor, these
same villains declared the Portuguese treaty void. Doubtless,
they now demand more money to renew it than Portugal can
conveniently muster, and probably nothing would satisfy the
monsters short of the riches of Lisbon and the pillage of the
churches, and the subversion of the kingdom. Then will come
the turn of Spain, of whom they have demanded the cession of
Louisiana, and pressed their demand until the Prince of Peace
knows not how any longer to resist it ; and in order to plunder
Spain and subvert the monarchy — unprincipled men will not
want pretences — perhaps this will be sufficient — that Spain has
not contributed as she ought to the common warfare as an ally
bound by a league offensive as well as defensive.

What ought we to do in respect to Louisiana? A letter

276 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

this day received from Colonel Humphreys, dated at Madrid the
4th of January, renders it probable that the information we have
had from New Orleans is true, that Gayoso has received order to
evacuate the posts. His information (Colonel Humphreys's),
was from a man employed in a public office conversant in
American affairs, and Colonel Humphreys considered it almost
certain. Perhaps these orders may have resulted from Spain's
seeing or fearing the necessity of ceding Louisiana to France,
and hence concluding that she might as well do a grateful thing
to us before the surrender. Louisiana is easy to be defended
by a force commanding the Mississippi at its mouth, another at
the English turn (half way between New Orleans and the mouth
of the river), and at the entrance from the sea into the lake
Pontchartrain. The Spanish force in all Louisiana is small,
probably not rising to a thousand men, from the Balize to the
Missouri. The deepest channel of the three mouths of the
Mississippi does not exceed fifteen feet of water, and it requires
a pretty strong breeze to advance against the current.

I have one more important fact to mention. That since Lord
Malmesbury's negotiation was broken off by the French, that gov-
ernment has offered more advantageous terms to the British
administration than Lord Malmesbury demanded, on the single
condition of a douceur of one million sterling ^ to be divided
among the Directory and the ministers. Talleyrand's share was
to be one hundred thousand pounds sterling for his department.
I might have mentioned that these miscreants had the modesty
to ask of our envoys a douceur of but fifty thousand pounds
sterling. Merlin was to have no part of the fifty thousand, be-
cause the privateersmen had paid him liberally for his opinions
against our vessels and those of other neutrals. This reminds
me of another very important omission in my preceding details.
In regard to the adjustment of our claims for spoliations, all the
vessels condemned for want of the role d'equipage were not to
be brought into view. Their condemnations were to be admit-
ted as irrevocable, because Merlin had written a treatise to jus-
tify their condemnation. Were there ever such devils out of
pandemonium? There was afterwards some relaxation on

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 277

this point. Claims might be made for such vessels, and if Citizen
Merlin could be convinced they were just, why then they might
be considered.

Of the measures you recommend.

1st. Permission to arm merchant vessels is given by the Pre-
sident's withdrawing his restrictions ; but there should be a
law to regulate them. The opposition are very angry with the
President's act on this point.

2d. The frigates are to be completed ; but the providing of a
number of sloops of war will be vehemently opposed.

3d. To authorize the President to provide ten ships of the
line would be still more opposed. I have supposed they might
easily be obtained of Great Britain, and that even for the bare
act of victualing such a fleet by us, the British would keep one
on our coast; and perhaps subject them to our orders, the Bri-
tish minister concurring, but to command them fully, they must
be our own.

4th. There would be equal opposition to increase of our
military establishment.

5th. There would perhaps be little opposition to a better,
perhaps to a formidable fortifying of our principal forts. Where
are the engineers? The Frenchmen in general employed in
1794, only wasted our money. Almost any artillery officer of
our revolutionary army would probably do better. Colonel
Vincent's plans at New- York are probably a fortunate exception.

6th. The revenue will not be extended but on the adoption
of the defensive measures, that will make additional revenues
indispensable.

7th. Instead of a suspension, I have for some time thought
we should declare the annihilation of all our treaties with France.
The repeated infractions of them on her part would justify us
in making void the whole.

A disclosure of our actual situation with France by commu-
nicating the envoys' letters, would, I presume, detach so many
of the adherents to opposition leaders, as to enable the real
friends to their country to take promptly all the requisite mea-
sures. On these details favor me with your opinions.

Truly and respectfully yours, &c.

278 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 41.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

10 o'clock, Tuesday, March 27, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I have this moment received your two favors of the 25th. I
am delighted with their contents ; but it is impossible for me to
reply particularly to them so as to reach you to-morrow, as you
desire. I will, therefore, confine myself to one point. I am
against going immediately into alliance with Great Britain. It
is my opinion that her interests will insure us her cooperation
to the extent of her power, and that a treaty will not secure her
further. On the other hand, a treaty might entangle us. Public
opinion is not prepared for it. It would not fail to be repre-
sented as to the point to which our previous conduct was directed;
and, in case of offers from France, satisfactory to us, the public
faith might be embarrassed by the calls of the people for accom-
modation and peace.

The desideratum is, that Britain could be engaged to lodge
with her minister here, powers commensurate with such arrange-
ments as exigencies may require, and the progress of opinion
permit. I see no good objection on her part to this plan.

It would be good policy in her to send to this country a
dozen frigates, to pursue the directions of this government.

If Spain would cede Louisiana to the United States, I would
accept it absolutely, if obtainable absolutely ; or with an engage-
ment to restore, if it cannot be obtained absolutely. I shall write

again to-morrow.

Yours truly, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 5th, 1798.

The papers relative to the negotiation which has been at-
tempted with France have been laid before Congress. Many in

Mr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 279

both Houses, I believe, find that the gratification of their curi-
osity has made them responsible for the management of a pretty
difficult subject. The disclosure was, I suppose, necessary,
though I regret the necessity. The dose will kill or cure, and I
wish I was not uncertain which ; not that I doubt the expedi-
ency of what the government has done or attempted, but because
I believe faction and Jacobinism to be the natural and immortal
enemies of our system. It is some satisfaction, however, to
know that the instructions and the conduct of the President
generally in this affair, have extorted the reluctant approbation
of our most inveterate opposers. A few days will determine
whether our Legislature can act with that decision and energy
which the crisis demands. Nothing further by way of impres-
sion can be done, except recourse is had to the desperate and
doubtful remedy of a popular appeal.

The revenue does not decline so much as I expected ; but
the management of the Treasury becomes more and more diffi-
cult. The Legislature will not pass laws in gross. Their appro-
priations are minute. Gallatin, to whom they yield, is evidently
intending to break down this department, by charging it with an
impracticable detail.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 9, 1798.

Dear Sir:

This morning the dispatches from our envoys are published,
and I inclose a copy.

In your letter of March 27th, in answer to mine of the 25th,
just then received, you say, " I shall write again to-morrow." I
have received no letter from you since that of the 27th, which I
mention on the presumption that you may have written, and be-
cause, if you have, it is important on every account that it should
be known.

280 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

You will readily imagine what apologies our internal enemies
make for the French government. Jefferson says that the Di-
rectory are not implicated in the villany and corruption displayed
in these dispatches, or, at least, that these offer no proof against
them. Bache's paper of last Saturday says, " that M. Talleyrand
is notoriously anti-republican, that he was the intimate friend of
Mr. Hamilton, Mr. King, and other great federalists, and that it
is probably owing to the determined hostility which he discov-
ered in them towards France, that the government of that
country consider us only as objects of plunder."

I am very truly yours, &c.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 19th April, 1796.

Dear Sir :

I have this instant received a letter dated the 14th instant,
from Judge Hobart, resigning his seat in the Senate of the United
States ; and as our Legislature is not now in session, it hath be-
come my duty to appoint a Senator to succeed him, and take
his place, until the next meeting of the Legislature.

The present delicate state of our public affairs, and the evi-
dent expediency of filling this vacancy without delay, induce
me, without requesting your permission and waiting for your
answer to determine, to send you a commission to fill that place
by the next post.

I can say nothing that will not occur to you. Adieu.

Yours sincerely,

John Jay.

&t. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 281

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 19th April, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I wrote a few lines this morning, informing you that Judge
Hobart had resigned his seat in the Senate, and that by the next
post I should send you a commission to fill his place. On further
reflection, I doubt the propriety of appointing you without your
previous permission, and therefore shall postpone it until I re-
ceive your answer.

If, after well considering the subject, you should decline an
appointment, be so good as to consult with some of our most
judicious friends, and advise me as to the person most proper to
appoint, and at the same time likely to accept.

Yours sincerely.

HAMILTON TO JAY.

New-York, April 24, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I have received your two favors of the 19th instant. I feel
as I ought the mark of confidence they announce. But I am
obliged by my situation to decline the appointment. This situa-
tion you are too well acquainted with to render it necessary for
me to enter into explanation. There may arrive a crisis when I
may conceive myself bound once more to sacrifice the interests
of my family to public call. But I must defer the change as
long as possible.

I do not at present think of a person to recommend adapted
to the emergency. I shall reflect, and consult, and write you by
the next post. This, the first day, is not decisive of our election
here, but there is as yet nothing to discourage.
"With respect and attachment,

I remain, dear Sir, &c.

Governor Jay.

282 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 41.

ROBERT G. HARPER TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 27, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Could any thing prevail on you to take trie War Department ?
Reflect on the importance of the station at this moment. Consi-
der how much more important a war minister is than a general,
and how much more difficult to be found.

We shall have an army of twenty thousand men, with the
power to receive voluntary enlistments ad libitum in addition to
it — the volunteers to be armed and clothed at their own expense.
This, under proper direction, will give us the flower of the coun-
try ; and put arms into the hands of all our friends. But every
thing will depend on the name of the general and the talents of
the minister.

I write this without any authority, but I have good reason to
believe from late conversations with the President, that if he
were to understand your willingness to come forward, the ar-
rangement would immediately take place. In that case Mr.
McHenry would give way, and there is no difference of opinion
among the federal party on the absolute necessity of his doing so.

General Pinckney and Carrington, of Virginia, have been
thought of among our friends, if you cannot be got : but the
first is absent, and the second wants the weight of character re-
quisite at this time. Besides, he may be more fit for the marine,
where also will be wanted a man of authority and detail.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 12th May, 1798.

My Dear Hamilton :

I shall in a short time be able to get to sea one or two of our
frigates, and perhaps, in less than six or seven days, Capt. Dale,

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 283

in the Ganges, a lately purchased vessel. Can you spare an
hour or two to help me to the instructions that it will be pro-
per to give to their Captains. Our ships of war, it is probable,
will meet with French privateers, who may be in possession of
our merchantmen, or with our merchant vessels having French
prize-masters on board ; or, with French privateers cruising upon
our coast to capture American vessels. They may also, when
acting as convoys, be obliged to employ force to protect their
convoys, and may even be obliged to board a French ship of war
to terminate a contest, and insure its safety. What instructions
ouo-ht to be given to meet such cases, or enable them to afford
competent protection to our merchantmen, and preserve the Ex-
ecutive from any future accusation of having, by its orders, in-
volved the country in war ? I foresee these instructions will fall
to my lot, there being no chance that we shall have a Secretary
of the Navy in time to frame them, or release me from the re-
sponsibility. Neither the President has mentioned the subject
yet to me, or any other gentleman. You will easily conceive
how necessary it is I should be assisted with your ideas, and a
sketch of such instructions, as in your opinion, will comport with
the existing state of things and profound reserve of Congress.
Yours sincerely and affectionately.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, May 12th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

It will not surprise you to hear that an open schism, accom-
panied by mutual reproaches, took place between our envoys be-
fore they separated. Mr. Gerry remains at Paris, and there is a
strong opinion that great pains will be taken to persuade him to
consent to a public reception, in order to deceive and mock his
country with overtures of an insidious negotiation. Marshall
and Pinckney left Paris about the middle of April. The former.

284 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

I liope, is on his passage to Philadelphia ; the latter will embark
early in June.

You will be at no loss to understand this state of things.
Nothing but vigor and energy will save our country. Unanimi-
ty cannot be expected. Moderation and forbearance, with all the
virtues that meekly follow in their train, have been faithfully em-
ployed, and without success. It is now time, and the wretched
picture exhibited by the countries where France has introduced
her detestable principles, should admonish us to give up half-way
measures with half-way men. They do not belong to the times
in which we live. The people of America will support their
government, if that government acts with decision ; if it appeals
to the pride, the patriotism, and the honor of the nation ! But
if it temporizes, if it wastes itself in words, if it stops short of
the only course that remains for its adoption, consistently with
the public safety, the next election will convulse the country,
and may, as the directory intend, and expect it shall, give the
government to those who will deliver us up to the same ruin that
continues to desolate Europe. There is a slight appearance that
things are mending upon the continent ; but little interests, little
jealousies, and little men, whose united influence is opposed to
the only effectual remedy for the mischief, forbid us to expect it
until the evil has spread still wider ; for so wretched are the gov-
vernments on the continent, not yet subverted, that the best hope
is from the people, who are cured when the fire has passed over
them.

I received a short letter from you a few days since without
date, which gave me great satisfaction, as it authorized the hopes
that the public opinion was sounder than that of its represent-
atives. War will increase the public taxes. These are unpleasant
subjects for meditation; the passions must be attended to, they
must have an object — there is a great one. I can't explain my-
self. I have had no occasion for reserve with the Secretary of
State, because I write to him in cipher.

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 285

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

May 17th, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

I have received your letter of instant. Not having

seen the law which provides the naval armament, I cannot tell
whether it gives any new power to the President, that is, any
power whatever with regard to the employment of the ships. If
not, and he is left at the foot of the constitution, as I understand
to be the case, -I am not ready to say that he has any other power
than merely to employ the ships as convoys, with authority to
repel force by force, (but not to capture,) and to repress hostilities
within our waters, including a marine league from our coasts.

Any thing beyond this must fall under the idea of reprisals,
and requires the sanction of that department which is to declare
or make war.

In so delicate a case, in one which involves so important a
consequence as that of war, my opinion is, that no doubtful
authority ought to be exercised by the President ; but, that as
different opinions about his power have been expressed in the
House of Representatives, and no special power has been given
by the law, it will be expedient for him, and his duty, and the
true policy of the conjuncture, to come forward by a message to
the two Houses of Congress, declaring that "so far and no far-
ther''1 he feels himself confident of his authority to go in the em-
ployment of the naval force ; that, as, in his opinion, the depre-
dations on our trade demand a more extensive protection, he has
thought it his duty to bring the subject under the review of Con-
gress by a communication of his opinion of his own powers, hav-
ing no desire to exceed the constitutional limits.

This course will remove all clouds as to what the President
will do, will gain him credit for frankness and an unwillingness
to chicane the constitution, and will return upon Congress the
question in a shape which cannot be eluded.

I presume you will have heard before this reaches you, that
a French privateer has made captures at the mouth of our harbor.
This is too much humiliation after all that has passed.

286 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 41.

Our merchants are very indignant; our government very
prostrate in the view of every man of energy.

TRACY TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 17th, 1798.

Sir:

Our envoys continuing so long in Paris is not only a morti-
fying circumstance, but will probably prevent any energy of
government, even in the Senate. A committee of the Senate to
take into consideration the subject was together this morning,
consisting of five members. I laid before them the following
bill, viz. :

" A Bill declaring the treaties between the United States and
the republic of France to be void, and more effectually to protect
the commerce and the coast of the United States."

Whereas, the government of the French republic has repeat-
edly violated the treaties subsisting between the United States
and the French nation ; and whereas, under the authority of the
said government, armed vessels belonging to the French republic
and citizens thereof have repeatedly captured the ships and prop-
erty of the citizens of the United States on the coasts thereof,
while engaged in commerce authorized by said treaties, and the
law of nations : Therefore, be it enacted,

That the treaties of alliance, and of amity and commerce, now
subsisting between the United States and the French nation,
which were agreed upon and signed at Paris on the 6th day of
February, 1798, by the authority of the United States and the
then king of France, and the stipulations contained therein, be,
and they are hereby declared to be void and of no effect ; and
the United States, and every citizen thereof, are hereby declared
to be released and discharged from all and singular the obliga-
tions and stipulations contained in said treaties, or either of them.
And be it further enacted, "That the President of the United

jEt.41.] correspondence. 287

States be, and he hereby is authorized to instruct the command-
ers of all armed vessels of the United States to take and bring
into port all armed vessels belonging to the republic of France,
or of any citizen thereof, which may be found within forty leagues
of any part of the coast of the United States ; and further, to in-
struct said commanders, who are employed to convoy any mer-
chant vessel or vessels of the United States, not to permit search
to be made on board of such vessel or vessels by officers or crews
of a French cruiser or armed vessel on any pretense whatever."

This bill, you will see, is a rough draft ; but the ideas were
too strong for our committee. We may, possibly, with immense
labor, drive through the Senate a bill authorizing instructions to
capture a cruiser that has unjustifiably taken one of our vessels
on our own coast — but the treaty must remain intangible until
our envoys are out of Paris. I never permit myself to despair
of the commonwealth ; but I am sometimes exhausted and dis-
couraged, and think the United States must succumb under the
intrigues of the Great Nation. Our best men are so timid, and
our worst so active and profligate, that nothing is done but with
excessive fatigue and industry. Confidence in one another is
lost — and among ourselves, I mean Federalists, there is a look
out to secure against possible events ; and protections from the
French, who may invade us, are now thought of; and qualifica-
tions for friendship from French clemency are now in calculation.

Pardon me, sir, for troubling you so long. I wish for your
assistance, and that of all good men, to excite our friends. Our
enemies I fear not, if our friends will be faithful to themselves.

Yours respectfully,

Uriah Tracy.

HAMILTON TO KING.

May, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

It is a great while since I received a line from you, nor in-
deed have I deserved one ; the vortex of business in which I

288 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J3t. 41.

have been, having kept me from writing to yon. At this mo-
ment, I presume, you will not be sorry to know my opinion as
to the course of our public affairs.

In Congress a good spirit is gaining ground, and, though
measures march slowly, there is reason to expect that almost
every thing which the exigency requires will be done. The plan
is, present defence against depredations by sea, and preparations
for eventual danger by land. In the community, indignation
against the French government, and a firm resolution to support
our own, discover themselves daily by unequivocal symptoms.
The appearances are thus far highly consoling.

But, in this posture of things, how unfortunate is it that the
new instructions offered by Great Britain, which appear, accord-
ing to the reports of the day, to be giving rise to many abusive
captures of our vessels, are likely to produce a counter-current,
and to distract the public dissatisfaction between two powers,
who, it will be said, are equally disposed to plunder and oppress.
In vain will it be urged, that the British government cannot be
so absurd as at such a juncture to intend us injury. The effects
will be alone considered, and they will make the worst possible
impression. By what fatality has the British cabinet been led to
spring any new mine, by new regulations, at such a crisis of
affairs ? What can be gained to counteract the mischievous ten-
dency of abuses ? Why are weapons to be furnished to our
Jacobins ?

It seems, the captured vessels are carried to the Mole, where
there is a virtuous judge, of the name of Cambault, disposed to
give sanction to plunder in every shape. Events are not yet
sufficiently unfolded to enable us to judge of the extent of the
mischief, but nothing can be more unlucky than that the door
has been opened. The recency of the thing may prevent your
hearing any thing about it from the government by this oppor-
tunity.

Yours affectionately, &c.

P. S. It is said, privateers are fitting out at Antigua and
St. Kitts.

/Et. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 289

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New- York, May 19, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

At the present dangerous crisis of public affairs, I make no
apology for troubling you with a political letter. Your impres-
sions of our situation, I am persuaded, are not different from
mine. There is certainly great probability that we may have to
enter into a very serious struggle with France ; and it is more
and more evident that the powerful faction which has for years
opposed the government, is determined to go every length with
France. I am sincere in declaring my full conviction, as the re-
sult of a long course of observation, that they are ready to new
model our constitution under the influence or coercion of France ;
to form with her a perpetual alliance, offensive and defensive, and
to give her a monopoly of our trade by peculiar and exclusive
privileges. This would be in substance, whatever it might be in
name, to make this country a province of France. Neither do I
doubt that her standard, displayed in this country, would be di-
rectly or indirectly seconded by them, in pursuance of the pro-
ject I have mentioned.

It is painful and alarming to remark, that the opposition fac-
tion assumes so much a geographical complexion. As yet, from
the south of Maryland nothing has been heard but accounts of
disapprobation of our government, and approbation of or apology
for France. This is a most portentous symptom, and demands
every human effort to change it.

In such a state of public affairs, it is impossible not to look
up to you, and to wish that your influence could in some proper
mode be brought into direct action. Among the ideas which
have passed through my mind for this purpose, I have asked my-
self whether it might not be expedient for you to make a circuit
through Virginia and North Carolina, under some pretence of
health, &c. This would call forth addresses, public dinners, &c,
which would give an opportunity of expressing sentiments in
answers, toasts, &c, which would throw the weight of your

F 19

290 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

character into the scale of the government, and revive an enthu-
siasm for your person, that may be turned into the right channel.

I am aware that the step is delicate, and ought to be well
considered before it is taken. I have even not settled my own
opinion as to its propriety, but I have concluded to bring the
general idea under your view, confident that your judgment will
make a right choice ; and that you will take no step which is
not well calculated. The conjuncture, however, is extraor-
dinary, and now, or very soon, will demand extraordinary
measures.

You ought also to be aware, my dear sir, that in the event
of an open rupture with France, the public voice will again call
you to command the armies of your country ; and, though all
who are attached to you will, from attachment, as well as public
considerations, deplore an occasion which should once more tear
you from that repose to which you have so good a right, yet it
is the opinion of all those with whom I converse, that you will be
compelled to make the sacrifice. All your past labor may de-
mand to give it efficacy this further, — this very great sacrifice.
Adieu, my dear Sir,

Respectfully and affectionately, &c.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

M nt V ryon, 27 -h of May, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

Yesterday brought me your letter of the 19th instant.

You may rest assured that my mind is deeply impressed with
the present situation of our public affairs, and not a little agi-
tated by the outrageous conduct of France towards the United
States ; and at the inimical conduct of its partisans among our-
selves, who aid and abet their measures. You may believe fur-
ther, from assurances equally sincere, that if there was any thing
in my power which could be done with consistency to avert or

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 291

lessen the danger of the crisis, it should be rendered with hand
and heart.

The expedient, however, which has been suggested by you,
would not, in my opinion, answer the end which is proposed.
The object of such a tour could not be veiled by the ostensible
cover to be given to it; because it would not apply to the state
of my health, which never was better; and as the measure
would be susceptible of two interpretations, the enemies to it,
always more active and industrious than friends, would endea-
vor, as much as in them lay, to turn it to their own advantage
by malicious insinuations, unless they should discover that the
current against themselves was setting too strong, and of too
serious a nature for them to stem ; in which case the journey
would be unnecessary, and in either case, the reception might
not be such as you have supposed.

But, my dear sir, dark as matters appear at present, and ex-
pedient as it is to be prepared at all points for the worst that can
happen (and no one is more disposed to this measure than I am),
I cannot make up my mind, yet, for the expectation of open war;
or, in other words, for a formidable invasion by France. I can-
not believe, although I think them capable of any thing bad, that
they will attempt to do more than they have done; that when
they perceive the spirit and policy of this country rising into
resistance ; and that they have falsely calculated upon support
from a large part of the people thereof, to promote their views
and influence in it, that they will desist, even from those practices ;
unless unexpected events in Europe, or their possession of Loui-
siana and the Floridas, should induce them to continue the mea-
sure. And I believe further, that although the leaders of their
party, in this country, will not change their sentiments, that
they will be obliged, nevertheless, to change their plan, or the
mode of carrying it on, from the effervescence which is appear-
ing in all quarters, and the desertion of their followers, which
must frown them into silence, at least for a while.

If I did not view things in this light, my mind would be
infinitely more disquieted than it is ; for if a crisis should arrive,
when a sense of duty, or a call from my country, should become

2(J2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

so imperious as to leave me no choice, I should prepare for the
relinquishment, and go with as much reluctance from my pre-
sent peaceful abode, as I should do to the tombs of my an-
cestors.

To say at this time, determinately, what I should do under
such circumstances, might be improper, having once before de-
parted from a similar resolution ; but I may declare to you, that
as there is no conviction in my breast that I could serve my
country with more efficiency in the command of the armies it
might levy, than many others, an expression of its wish that I
should do it, must, somehow or other, be unequivocally known
to satisfy my mind, that, notwithstanding the respect in which I
may be held on account of former services, that a preference
might not be given to a man more in his prime. And it may
well be supposed too, that I should like, previously, to know
who would be my coadjutors, and whether you would be dis-
posed to take an active part, if arms are to be resorted to.

Before this letter can get to your hands, you will have seen
the resolutions and proposed address from the citizens of Charles-
ton, in South Carolina. Their proceedings will, I am per-
suaded, give the tone to other parts of that State. Two or three
very good addresses have already appeared from North Caro-
lina ; one with the signature of a late governor thereof, Spaight.
All the upper, most populous, and hardy yeomanry of this State,
have come, and are coming forward with their addresses to the
Executive, and assurances of support. The address from Nor-
folk (I do not mean the impertinent one from Magnier's grena-
dier company) is a good one. The middle counties of this
State, with two or three exceptions, have hitherto been silent ;
they want leaders ; but I shall be much mistaken if a large ma-
jority of them do not forsake, if they have heretofore been with,
those who have pretended to speak their sentiments. As to the
resolutions which were entered into at Fredericksburgh, it is
only necessary to point to the manager of them, and add that
the meeting was partial. From Georgia, no development of the
public sentiment has yet made its appearance ; but I have learnt
.from a very intelligent gentleman just returned from thence,

jEt. 41.] correspondence. 293

where he has been some time for the benefit of his health, travel-
ling, going and returning slowly, and making considerable halts,
that the people of that State, as also those of South and North
Carolina, seem to be actuated by one spirit, and that a very
friendly one to the general government. I have likewise heard,
that the present governor of the first (Georgia), professes to be
strongly attached to it. These disclosures, with what may yet
be expected, will, I conceive, give a different impression of the
sentiments of our people to the Directory of France, than what
they have been taught to believe ; while it must serve to abash
the partisans of it for their wicked and presumptive infor-
mation.

Your free communication on these political topics, is so far
from needing an apology, that I shall be much gratified and
thankful to you for the continuation of them ; and I would wish
you to believe that with great truth and sincerity, I am always
your affectionate friend and obedient servant,

Geo. Washington.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, June 2d, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I have before me your favor of the 27th of May. The
suggestion in my last was an indigested thought, begotten by
my anxiety. I have no doubt that your view of it is accurate
and well founded.

It is a great satisfaction to me to ascertain what I had antici-
pated in hope, that you are not determined in an adequate emer-
gency against affording once more your military services. There
is no one but yourself that would unite the public confidence in
such an emergency, independent of other considerations, and it
is of the last importance that this confidence should be full and
complete. As to the wish of the country, it is certain that it will

294 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

be ardent and universal. You intimate a desire to be informed
what would be my part in such an event as to entering into mili-
tary service. I have no scruple about opening myself to you on
this point. If I am invited to a station in which the service I
may render may be proportionate to the sacrifice I am to make,
I shall be willing to go into the army. If you command, the
place in which I should hope to be most useful is that of
Inspector-General, with a command in the line. This I would
accept. The public must judge for itself as to whom it will
employ, but every individual must judge for himself as to the
terms on which he will serve, and consequently must estimate
his own pretensions.

I have no knowledge of any arrangement contemplated, but
I take it for granted the service of all the former officers worth
having may be commanded, and that your choice would regulate
the Executive. With decision and care in the selection an ex-
cellent army may be formed.

The view you give of the prospects in the South is very con-
soling. The public temper seems every where to be travelling to a
right point. This promises security to the country in every event.
I have the honor to remain, my dear Sir,

Your faithful and affectionate servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, June 5th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

The answer from the President to the Commander in Chief,
&c., of New Jersey, contains in the close a very indifferent pas-
sage. The sentiment is intemperate and revolutionary. It is not
for us, particularly for the government, to breathe an irregular
or violent spirit. Hitherto I have much liked the President's
answers, as, in the main, within proper bounds, and calculated to
animate and raise the public mind. But there are limits which

Mr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 295

must not be passed, and from my knowledge of the ardor of the
President's mind, and this specimen of the effects of that ardor,
I begin to be apprehensive that he may run into indiscretion.
This will do harm to the government, to the cause, and to him-
self. Some hint must be given, for we must make no mistakes.

Inclosed is a sketch of some ideas which have run through
my mind. They are perhaps none of them new, but they are
offered as the evidence of my opinion on the point. As yet we
are far short of the point of vigor.

Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

Further measures advisable to be taken without delay.

I. To authorize the President to proceed, forthwith, to raise
the 10,000 men already ordered.

II. To establish an academy for military and naval instruc-
tion. This is a very important measure, and ought to be
permanent.

III. To provide for the immediate raising of a corps of non-
commissioned officers, viz. — sergeants and corporals, sufficient
with the present establishment for an army of 50,000 men. The
having these men prepared and disciplined will accelerate ex-
tremely the disciplining of an additional force.

IV. To provide, before Congress rise, that in case it shall
appear that an invasion of this country by a large army is actu-
ally on foot, there shall be a draft from the militia to be classed,
of a number sufficient to complete the army of 30,000 men.
Provision for volunteers in lieu of drafts. A bounty to be
given.

V. To authorize the President to provide a further naval
force of six ships of the line and twelve frigates, with twenty
small vessels not exceeding sixteen guns. It is possible the
ships of the line and frigates may be purchased of Great Britain
to be paid for in stock. We ought to be ready to cut up all the
small privateers and gunboats in the West Indies, so as at the

296 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 4V

same time to distress the French islands as much as possible, and
protect our own trade.

YI. Is not the independence of the French colonies, under
the guaranty of the United States, to be aimed at? If it is, there
cannot be too much promptness in opening negotiations for the
purpose. Victor Hughes is probably an excellent subject. This
idea, however, deserves mature consideration.

VII. It is essential the Executive should have half a million
of secret service money. If the measure cannot be carried with-
out it, the expenditure may be with the approbation of three
members of each house of Congress. But it were better with-
out this incumbrance.

VIII. Eevenue in addition to the $2,000,000 of land-tax, say
A stamp-duty on hats, as well manufactured at home

as imported, distributed in three classes : 10, 15,

25 cents, $500,000

Saddle horses one dollar each, excluding those en-
gaged in agriculture, 100,000

Salt so as to raise the present duty to 25 cents per
bushel.

Male servants of these capacities, by whatever name,
maitre d'hotel, house steward, valet de chamber,
butler, under butler, confectioner, cook, house
porter, waiter, footman, coachman, groom, pos-
tilion, stable boy.*

For one such servant, . . . $1.

For two servants and not more, . . 2 each.

For three servants and not more, . . 3 each.

Above three, 4 each. 500,000

(One dollar additional by bachelors.)

New modification, with greater diversity of licenses

for sale of wines, 100,000

One per cent on all successions by descent or devise, 100,000

IX. A loan of $10,000,000. The interest to be such as will
insure the loan at par. It is better to give high interest redeema-

* In lieu of tax of slaves which is liable to much objection.

JSt.4!.] correspondence. 297

ble at pleasure, than low interest with accumulation of capital, as
in England.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, June 6th. 1798.

My Dear Sir:

We have certain intelligence that the Toulon expedition has
sailed. The number of troops, of transports, and of men of war,
are variously stated, but it is known, that Bonaparte commands,
and that the fleet is a very great one. Its destination is the sub-
ject of inquietude and of conjecture. A few days will bring us
more perfect accounts, and from the force and position of the
British fleet under Lord St. Vincent, the public are in daily,
not to say hourly expectation, of hearing that he has discovered
and destroyed this boasted armada.

If Ireland is the object, the insurrection has been ill judged
and premature. In almost every instance, the insurgents have
been dispersed and killed, and the quarter round Dublin is now
nearly restored to the king's peace. Still however, if a moderate
French force, with a supply of arms, could now be thrown into
Ireland, the issue would be dubious, so deep and general is the
desertion. Great Britain is unquestionably in a better and more
secure, as well as more united state, than she has been since the
commencement of the war. With her the question with France
is at issue, and so far as regards Europe, upon her alone must it
essentially depend. For upon the continent, French principles
and French influence seem still to extend themselves in every
direction. Though it is more than a fortnight since the publica-
tion of the instructions and dispatches of our envoys must have
been received at Paris, neither their papers nor letters from
France take any notice of them. Gerry is still there, but about
to return home, and, if I mistake not, will be the bearer of a
soothing and treacherous message from the Directory. Be upon
your guard. France will not declare war against us. No. Her

298 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

policy will be to pursue with us the same course she already has
done, and which has served her purpose in Italy, and among the
honest, but devoted and ruined Swiss.

I will say, if after all that has occurred among ourselves, and
in other countries, we are content to be duped, and cajoled, and
betrayed, we shall deserve the fate which they are preparing for
us.

Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO KINO.

June 6th, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

Official information and the public papers, will give you all
the information I could give of the measures going on in this
country. You will have observed with pleasure a spirit of patri-
otism kindling every where. And you will not be sorry to know
that it is my opinion, that there will shortly be national unan-
imity, as far as that idea can ever exist. Many of the leaders of
faction will persist, and take ultimately a station in the public
estimation like that of the tories of our revolution.

Our chief embarrassment now is, the want of energy among
some of our friends, and our councils containing too strong an
infusion of those characters who cannot reform, and who, though
a minority, are numerous enough, and artful enough, to perplex
and relax. We do far less than we ought towards organizing
and maturing for the wrorst the resources of the country. But I
count that there is a progress of opinion which will probably
shortly overcome this obstacle.

How vexatious that at such a juncture there should be offi-
cers of Great Britain, who, actuated by a spirit of plunder, are
doing the most violent things, calculated to check the proper
amount of popular feeling, and to furnish weapons to the ene-
mies of government. Combauld at the Mole is acting a part quite

jEt. 41.] correspondence. 299

as bad as the Directory and their instruments. I have seen sev-
eral of his condemnations. They are wanton beyond measure.
It is not enough that his acts are disavowed, and a late and de-
fective redress given through the channels of the regular courts.
Justice, and the policy of the crisis, demand that he be decisively
punished and disgraced. I think it probable you will be in-
structed to require this. It would be happy if the government
where you are would anticipate.

It is unlucky too that Cochrane, of the Thetis, appears to be
doing some ill things. The southern papers announce a number
of captures lately made by him, and in some instances, if they
say true, on very frivolous pretexts. The character of that
gentleman would lead me to hope that there is in this some mis-
representation, but the present appearances against him are
strong.

There seems a fatality in all this. It cannot be doubted that
the British cabinet must at this time desire to conciliate this
country. It is to be hoped they will not want vigor to do it
with effect, by punishing those who contravene the object.
Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

June 7th, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

As McHenry will probably have left Philadelphia before this
reaches that place, I take the liberty to address the subject of
it to you.

I have received a letter from Capt. Yan Eensselaer, in which
he informs me that he is a candidate for a commission on board
of our navy, and requests my recommendation of it. As a con-
nection of our family I cannot refuse it, as far as truth and pro-
priety will warrant.

When he first began his career, the young man did things

300 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 41.

which were not pretty; but he has since that retrieved his char-
acter by a conduct which has rapidly raised him to the command
of a ship, which he has had of several. I have particularly in-
quired concerning him, and my inquiries have been satisfactorily
answered — so that I really conclude he is a deserving man. But
of this you can be better ascertained from persons in Philadel-
phia, in whose employ I believe he has sailed.

My only intention is to request attention to his pretensions, as
far as they may appear to be good, and in the proportion which
they bear to those of other candidates. I owe this to him as a
family connection, and I may add that he is of a brave blood.

What do the British mean ? What are these stories of the
Thetis, &c? In my opinion, our country is now to act in every
direction with spirit. Will it not be well to order one of our
frigates to Charleston, to protect effectually our commerce in that
quarter, and if necessary control the Thetis f This conduct will
unite and animate.

Yours truly.

P. S. — If an alien bill passes, I would like to know what
policy, in execution, is likely to govern the Executive. My opin-
ion is, that while the mass ought to be obliged to leave the coun-
try, the provisions in our treaties in favor of merchants ought to
be observed, and there ought to be guarded exceptions of char-
acters whose situations would expose them too much if sent away,
and whose demeanor amongst us has been unexceptionable.
There are a few such. Let us not be cruel or violent.

A. H.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, June 8, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Since writing you a day or two .past I have had the pleasure
to receive your letters by the packet, and am rejoiced to find my

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 301

hopes confirmed by your opinions that we shall not be wanting
to ourselves in our conduct towards France.

Immediately on hearing of the proceedings of the Admiralty
Judge of St. Domingo, I remonstrated to this government against
them, and was without delay answered that General Simcoe had
no power to erect the court, that the appointment of Judge
Cambauld was illegal, and all his decrees void ; and that those
who had unfortunately suffered by them must, as in the Mar-
tinique cases, apply for satisfaction to the High Court of Admi-
ralty in England. I expected, and so it was determined, that
orders should have been instantly dispatched to suppress the
court ; this was omitted from the negligence of the officer to
whom the duty belonged in the admiralty, hence the continuation
of the court of St. Domingo. Orders have, however, at length
been sent to suppress the court.

The instructions of the 25th of January, 1793, a copy of
which was, on the 7th of February, sent to the Secretary of
State, have been misrepresented or not understood. Instead of
enlarging, the effect of them will, as it was intended it should, be
to contract the description of cases in which the trade of neutrals,
will be liable to interruption. The order, as it is called, of the
6th November, 1793, authorized the capture of all vessels carry-
ing supplies to, or laden with the produce of the French West
Indies. The instruction of the 8th of January, 1794, revoked
this order, and substituted another in which the bona fide neutral
trade between the United States and the French West Indies was
considered as legal — while that between the French West Indies
and Europe was liable to interruption by the vessels being sent
in for adjudication. The late instruction of the 25th of January,
which I have thought a point gained, enlarges the rights and
security of the trade of neutrals, for instead of former restraints,
it is now admitted, that a direct trade by neutrals between their
respective countries and the French, Dutch and Spanish West
Indies, out and home, and likewise the direct voyage from those
colonies to any port in Great Britain are lawful, and not liable to
interruption.

That the naval officers will often exercise their authority,

302 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

however limited, in abuse, will continue to be the case so long as
the military profession is disgraced by a sordid love of gain, and
so long as the system of the Admiralty Courts of England shall
be so little satisfactory as they really are. We are, as you will
naturally suppose, extremely impatient to receive information
from the Mediterranean. It appears certain that the Toulon ex-
pedition sailed about the 19th of May. The force is variously
reported. Buonaparte is supposed to be with the fleet, which is
said to be thirteen ships of the line, as many frigates, and nearly
four hundred transports — all the naval characters agree, that it is
next to impossible that they can reach Ireland without discovery.
Indeed, from the prevalence of the winds from the west, a single
ship would, it is said, be at this season perhaps two months
in making the voyage from Toulon to Ireland. The opinion that
has the most advocates is, that the expedition is against Portu-
gal— that the troops will be disembarked at Carthagena or Malaga
in Spain, and that they will cross the mountains to Portugal. It
is well understood that from the want of subsistence they could
not have marched through Spain. But Portugal has no money,
and all the plunder that would be obtained would not defray the
expenses of the expedition. The enterprise would reduce Spain
under the more complete control of France. Cadiz would become
a French port. The English would be expelled from the Tagus.
The Spanish fleet would be relieved as soon as the windy season
arrives, and from the Tagus and Cadiz the expedition may go
against the Brazils, and the treasure of South America may be
at the disposal of the Directory. Besides, that country may be
revolutionized on the French model, and this may prepare the
way for the measures to be adopted towards us. Letters from
Lord St. Vincent, of the 19th May, (when his fleet off Cadiz con-
sisted of twenty-five sail of the line, in excellent condition,)
induce the belief that Sir Eoger Curtis would join him from the
Greek station by the 22d or 23d, with ten sail of the line. His
orders are to leave a force to block up Cadiz and watch the fleet,
and to proceed with the residue of the fleet to search for and
fight the Toulon fleet ; and, according to every thing that we
know, there is great reason to expect that he will be in season

^Et. 41.1 CORRESPONDENCE. 303

to intercept them, even should their object be Carthagena or
Malaga.

'Tis against every probability that the Toulon expedition can
pass the Gut without discovery !

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, June 9th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I dropped you a hasty line to-day, acknowledging the receipt
of your letters of the 7th and 8th. I now inclose to you a copy
of the new British instructions, with Mr. King's remark upon
them. These, I have not the least doubt, are the instructions
which the American captains from the West Indies, by miscon-
ceptions, have represented to be so injurious to our commerce. —
Mr. Liston knows of no other, nor has Mr. King mentioned any
besides these ; and you will observe that Mr. King considers them
as extending the right or the privilege of neutral commerce be-
yond the former instructions, and the long avowed claim of a
right on her part (Britain) to interrupt and prevent any com-
merce of neutrals with the colonies, of her enemies, which was
not permitted in time of peace.

The alien bills, introduced into both Houses of Congress, have
undergone such alterations, I do not know their present form. Of
one thing, however, you may rest assured, that they will not err
on the' side of severity, much less of cruelty. I wish they may
really provide for the public safety.

Mr. Stoddart has accepted the office of Secretary of the Navy,
and I expected him to arrive by this day at farthest. As soon as
he comes to town, I will communicate what you say of Capt. Van
Rensselaer.

In your letter of the 8th, you renew the subject of the cap-
tures by the Thetis, Captain Cochrane. Suspecting that the

304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. (>Et. 41.

Charleston complaints were the clamors of interested men en-
gaged in illicit commerce, I mean with contraband goods, or
covering the property of enemies to Great Britain, I mentioned
the matter to Mr. Eeed, of the Senate, who confirmed my suspi-
cions. In short, in order to favor the French, and acquire great
profits in trade, many American merchants have prostituted
every fair principle of commerce, and put their captains on tak-
ing such deceitful oaths, as to render suspicious the papers of in-
nocent merchants, to their vast injury. Nobody has been more
noisy about British depredations than General Smith, of Balti-
more. He particularly complained to me, ten months ago, of
the loss of several of his vessels, captured, and sent into Mole
St. Nicholas. I represented his complaints to Mr. Liston, who
wrote to the admiral or commanding officer at St. Domingo. The
answer returned showed, that one of Smith's vessels, on her voy-
ago outward, had carried and delivered to the French adminis-
tration eighteen hogsheads of gunpowder, cleared out as merchan-
dise of calicoes, &c. I communicated this to General Smith, who
wrote me a long letter upon the subject, but without denying the
fact as to the gunpowder. I do not mention this as though it
justified the judge, one Cambauld, a corrupt villain, in condem-
ning the vessel captured on her return voyage ; but the gunpowder
having been delivered to the French government, the judge was
disposed to suspect the produce received in return also belonged
to the French; and that judge is so utterly unprincipled, a sus-
picion alone would induce him to condemn, unless handsomely
bribed to acquit. His character and conduct I have long since
described to Mr. King, who has conferred with Lord Grenville,
who pronounces the court itself (appointed by Simcoe) illegal,
like that erected by Admiral Jervis formerly at Martinico. In
the mean time our fair merchants are suffering by its illegal acts-
It is the shameful and often detected frauds in the documents
furnished to our merchant vessels, that have induced the British
naval officers to disregard their papers, and to rest satisfied with
nothing short of an actual examination of their cargoes, and this
vexation will doubtless continue more or less until the honest
merchants come forward and expose their fraudulent neighbors.

/Et. 41. J CORRESPONDENCE. 305

I do not like the provisional army act. I do not believe gen-
tlemen's expectations from volunteers will be verified. Many
small corps will be formed', but not in numbers to supply the
place of an army, especially as the bill was so altered as to sub-
ject them to march not only to an adjoining State, but to the re-
motest State in the Union. It is true, the President will not thus
harass them, but they will be under apprehensions of it, and many
will be discouraged. If they have spirit enough to disregard
this, so would they march, when requested in time of invasion,
into any State, although by law they might remain in their own,
or an adjoining State. Instead of waiting an actual invasion, I
think the raising of the army ought now to be commenced. It
would take many months to form and bring it into a state of
discipline, in which we could place anjr confidence. Small pre-
datory incursions of the French, though they might occasion
great destruction of property, would not be dangerous, and the
militia might be sufficient to repel them, but what we have to
guard against, is an invasion by a powerful army of veterans ;
and I do not know any body of militia adequate to stop their
progress, and a fatal panic might be the consequence. They
would hold out their lures to entice, and they would entice mul-
titudes not to resist, at least if they did not join their standard, as
has happened in every republic in Europe, which they have pa-
tronized. I have indeed a confidence in the populous, well
armed, and unanimous northern States ; but is there any 40,000
of that militia who could encounter, with any chance of success,
20,000 veterans? You know the militia cannot be moved at the
order of the ablest commander. They are unmanageable, and the
greater the number, the greater the mass of confusion. Gentle-
men in Congress boast of the exploits of the militia in the Ame-
rican war, but where did they fight in a body of even five thou-
sand men? where did they fight successfully alone, without
regular troops, except in small corps of a few hundred men,
which might be put in motion without much hazard of disorder ?
And excepting at Bunker Hill (which was a wonderful action),
the militia victories against regulars were after the war had raged
several years, during which the men had been frequently called
F ' 20

306 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

into actual service, and their minds and bodies were gradually pre-
pared to meet dangers and hardships ; and in the southern States
the militiamen, whose prowess is now 'panegyrized (not unjustly),
were rendered desperate by their situation. But all these advan-
tageous circumstances would be wanting in case of such an inva-
sion as that against which we have to provide. Why is a provi-
sional army thought of, if an invasion is not to be apprehended?
To propose a provisional army, to depend for its formation on
an actual invasion, is to me the height of absurdity. Multitudes,
who would now enroll themselves, would, at the moment when
an invasion should find them unarmed and defenceless, shrink
into abject submission to the foe. But the President may also
commence the raising this army in case of " imminent danger of
invasion, discovered, in his opinion, to exist." At the same time,
it is understood such danger does not now exist ; and what cir-
cumstances will render the danger imminent? The successful
invasion of England, or even of Ireland (for in- either case, if not
wholly subdued, England would be fully employed), would put
us in jeopardy. If England still struggles, France might be in-
duced to keep all her force in Europe until the conquest was
complete ; but, considering that she has a redundancy of soldiers,
and a natural expectation would be presented of an easy con-
quest and submission here, if she made a sudden and unlooked-
for invasion, I own that the danger would then appear to me
imminent; and I think it so imminent, even now, that the army
ought forthwith to be raised. But, admitting that she fails in her
projects against England, she may be induced to make peace with
her — and her alone — for such has been the uniform policy of the
French rulers in all their successes. They will then renew their
demands upon us, and we must yield or make war alone. Bri-
tain, certainly, will not recommence the war for our sakes ; and
though she would regret our submission to France, and therefore
might be willing, in her negotiations of peace with France, to
stipulate for us also, yet, have we any right to expect it? With
so many marks of aversion and repulsion towards her, could we
have the face to ask it ? I know there are some who deem her
profligate enough, if France should propose a division of the States

tEt.41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 307

between herself and England, that the latter would agree to it ;
but I am not disposed to believe it. I think the animosities and
hatred engendered in the American revolution towards England
exist yet, in some breasts, in greater force than our interest or
our safety admit ; and these passions will keep us aloof till any
co-operation may become impracticable. We cannot expect over-
tures from England. I very much suspect she is waiting to re-
ceive them from us. I wish you were in a situation not only
"to see all the cards," but to play them. With all my soul I
would give you my hand, and engage in any other game, in which
I might best co-operate on the same side, to win the stakes.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

June 29th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I have this moment seen a bill brought into the Senate, en-
titled " A Bill to define more particularly the crime of Treason,
etc." There are provisions in this bill, which, according to a
cursory view, appear to me highly exceptionable, and such as,
more than any thing else, may endanger civil war. I have not
time to point out my objections by this post ; but I will do it to-
morrow. I hope, sincerely, the thing may not be hurried through.
Let us not establish a tyranny. Energy is a very different
thing from violence. If we make no false step, we shall be essen-
tially united ; but if we push things to an extreme, we shall then
give to faction body and solidity.

308 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, July 2d. 1798.

Dear Sir:

France will pursue with us the plan that she has elsewhere
found successful. She will endeavor to overthrow us by the
divisions among ourselves, which she will excite and support by
all the means of which she is mistress. The Paris papers of the
18th ult. say, "Le Citoyen Eoziers est nomme Consul General
aux Etats Unis, Gamier (en conventional de Santes) consul, et
Boseg vice-consul a Wilmington, Quillet, consul a Tangers-passe
a Norfolk, Bosc a New- York, et le Citoyen Sottin, ambassadeur
pres la Kepublique Ligurienne (and I presume the former minister
'of police), vient d'etre nomme consul a New-York"

If any thing could exceed the past insolence of France, it
would be this attempt to plant in our chief towns a corps of
revolutionary agents under the mask of public characters, and
whom she expects, I hope falsely, that our government will
receive and permit to reside among us, after having herself re-
peatedly refused and expelled from her territories our public
ministers.

Another arret of the Directory has added Havre to the ports
into which our vessels are forbid an entry ; so that we cannot
now enter the ports of Toulon, Rochefort, L'Orient, Brest, Dun-
kerque, or Havre. Cadiz and the Texel are closed by the British
squadrons, and I apprehend that the Meuse will likewise be
blockaded, as the British North Sea fleet is by this time rein-
forced by the Russian squadron.

We are still at a loss where Buonaparte is bound. He sailed
irom Toulon the 19th of May. My opinion has been that Ireland
was his object. At present, it seems to be the general opinion
that he never intended to leave the Mediterranean. In a few
days we must hear of him. The English confidently believe
that he will fall into the hands of Admiral Nelson, who is in
pursuit of him. In Ireland, though for some months there will
be partial and unimportant risings, the force of the insurrection

Mr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 309

is broken, and the danger nearly over. The chiefs have been
without much character and without any intellect. There is no
indication that they have received a single musket from France,
and in general they are without arms, except pikes. There is
but one remedy for Ireland, and it is that which has proved so
successful with Scotland. Ireland, like Scotland, must become
an integral part of the British empire, or she will continue ignor-
ant, ill-governed, oppressed, and wretched.

MCHENRY TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, July 2d, 1798.
Dear Sir :

The crisis, and the almost universal wish of the people to see you at the head
of the armies of the United States, has been too strong to be resisted. The Pre-
sident has yielded to causes so powerful and nominated you accordingly, which
has been unanimously confirmed to-day by the Senate.

Thus you are again called upon by all voices to fill a station which all think
yon alone qualified for at this moment. I know what must be your feelings, and
how many motives you must have for preferring the privacy you are in the en-
joyment of, to the troubles and perplexities of a commander of an army. This,
however, is the crowning sacrifice, which I pray to God you may agree to make
for the sake of vour country, and give the last finish to a fame nothing short of
such a call and the present occasion could have been capable of increasing.

I think it probable that the President will request me to be the bearer of his
letter to you. I shall, in that case, have an opportunity to converse with you at
large on several subjects relative to the army, and to agree with you upon such
arrangements as may leave you as long as possible at Mount Vernon. Perhaps
I may set out on Friday, or at the furthest Monday next.

Present me to Mrs. Washington and Miss Custis, and accept of my sincere
attachment and unchangeable affection.

olO HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

WASHINGTON TO MCHENRY.
(private )

Mount Vernon, 5th July, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

I am perfectly satisfied that the duties of your office were not diminished by
the duties thrown upon it in the course of the present session of Congress, and
far was it from my wish to add to the trouble of them. I expected no more than
a simple acknowledgment of my letters; and, with respect to the proposed arsenal
at the confluence of the Potomac and Shanandoah, that you would have said that
it had, or had not been forgotten, according to the fact.

I am well satisfied with your reply to my last; better, perhaps, than you will
be with reading the lengthy scrawl herewith inclosed, to which it has given rise,
and which, if you please, as from yourself, may be shown to the President, to
whom I have expressed tantamount sentiments in more concise terms. If you
are at liberty, and deem it expedient, communicate the response which shall be
made to it to me.

The President's letter to me, though not so expressed in terms, is, neverthe-
less, strongly indicative of a wish that I should take charge of the military force
of this country ; and, if I take his meaning right, to aid also in the selection of
the general officers. The appointment of these are important — but those of the
General Staff are all important; insomuch that if I am looked to as the com-
mander-in-chief, I must be allowed to choose such as will be agreeable to me.
To say more, at present, would be unnecessary ; first, because an army may
not be wanted, — and, secondly, because I might not be indulged in this choice if
it was.

You will readily perceive that a main difficulty with me, in this business, pro-
ceeds from the different epochs at which the army may be formed, and at which
it would be proper for me to take the command of it (in case the preliminaries
mentioned in my other letter are solved to my satisfaction). The President,
knowing that 10,000 men cannot be raised by the blowing of a trump, might
deem it expedient, from such appearances or information as would justify him
under the act, to prepare for the worst. I, on the other hand, have no disposition,
and think it would be bad policy to come forward before the emergency becomes
evident, farther than that it might be known that I will step forward, when it does
appear so, unequivocally ; and if the matters for which I have stipulated as previ-
ously necessary, are ascertained and accommodated, I shall have no objection to
the annunciation (if good would result from it) of this determination. But what
is to be done in the interval ? I see but two ways to overcome the difficulty, if it
is an object to accommodate my wishes ; first, to delay the appointment of the
General Staff to the latter epoch, if no inconvenience would result from it — or, if
this cannot be, then to advise with me on the appointment of them. I mention

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 311

the matter now, and in this manner, because I have some reason to believe that
there are very fit men who would be coadjutors with me, whose services without
could not be commanded.

Although I have made my stand at the General Staff", I conceive that much
will depend upon active and spirited officers for the divisions and brigades of the
army ; and (under the rose) I shall candidly declare that I do not, from my pre-
sent recollection of them, conceive that a desirable set could be formed from the
old generals ; some on account of their age and infirmities — some from never
having displayed any talents for enterprise — and others from their general opposi-
tion to the government, or their predilection to French measures, be their present
conduct what it may ; for those who will come up with a flowing tide, will descend
with the ebb ; and there can be no dependence upon them in moments of difficulty.
If circumstances would allow a choice of field officers, the service would be much
benefited by it. With my two letters I must have tired you sufficiently, and,
therefore, I shall only add what you knew before, and that is, that

I am your affectionate

Geo. Washington.

P. S. I have already been applied to by one gentleman, to recommend him
for director of the Hospital, which I have refused ; as well on general grounds,
as because, if I should ever have occasion for physician or surgeon, I should pre-
fer my old surgeon, Doctor Craik, who, from 40 years' experience, is better
qualified than a dozen of them put together.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, July 7th, 1798.
Buonaparte has made the dtbut of the campaign by the easy
though important conquest of Malta. This island has been sup-
posed impregnable, and therefore was the depository of great
wealth, removed thither from Italy. It contained likewise an
excellent arsenal, two or three ships of the line, and as many as
6,000 excellent seamen. It was the Maltese seamen who made
the fine campaign under Suffrein in the East Indies, during the
American war. Sicily is near, and from thence the French will
obtain provisions, should Admiral Nelson attempt to blockade
the fleet in the harbor of Malta. Buonaparte may perhaps take

312 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jHt.41.

possession of Sicily, after which Naples would almost fall of
course. We are left to conjecture what are his ulterior plans.
I don't perceive that it is believed that the English squadron can,
owing to the tempests of those seas, maintain a long blockade.
At Kastadt procrastination is the game. The French journalists
amused themselves with calling it "the Eternal Congress." I
see no likelihood of a concert upon the Continent against France.
The struggle is left to England, who certainly maintains it with
increased zeal and resolution. For some months past we have
not a word about peace. No one appears to think that peace
would bring safety. The affair of Ireland is nearly finished.
Cornwallis has requested that no more troops should be sent him,
and that those on their way should be countermanded. In -this
state of things, we are (for so I consider our situation) forced into
a war of defence. Have you received a former letter of mine on
this subject? It is of infinite importance that we are not de-
ceived by ourselves or others. We must do more than merely
defend. I still think that the object that I have before suggested,
demands all our consideration, wisdom and energy. Don't sup-
pose that I would combine our fortunes with those of others.
On the contrary, whatever our interest may require in regard to
a co-operation with others, I am averse to indissoluble engage-
ments with any one. The Continent of Europe cannot be saved,
but this is no reason why America should likewise perish.
France is the onlj' nation that projects enterprises, or succeeds in
putting them into execution ; all others are puzzled in a per-
petual effort to find out and defeat the plans of France, without
concerting and attempting to execute one that might give to
France the disadvantage of defence. If we follow this course, I
dread the issue.

Farewell. Yours, &c.

I am mortified with the probable result of the elections of
New-York. Mr. Jay, according to probabilities, is re-elected,
but how very considerable has been the opposition. Besides,
what is to become of us if we return such members to Congress
as I think it likely will compose a majority of our next dele-
gation ?

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 313

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, July 14. 1798.

Dear Sir:

I send you inclosed an interesting little piece addressed to
Gallatin by a former citizen of Geneva. If translated and pub-
lished, it may do good. We have no news from the Mediter-
ranean since the capture of Malta, nor can we do more than con-
jecture the future destination of Buonaparte. Turin, with its
arsenals, is possessed by a French army ; so that Sardinia is at
the feet of the Directory. The Emperor continues to recruit his
armies, and is now laying up magazines in the Tyrol. His ex-
penses are said to be equal to those of an open war, and his re-
sources unequal to his present expenditures. Prussia manifests
no inclination to enter into a new coalition against France, and
there are who suspect a most intimate connection between these
powers. In short, the fate of Europe is as uncertain and difficult
to understand as at any period of the war. It is at least ten days
since the spirited measures pursued in America must have been
known at Paris. "We are, therefore, anxious to learn the effect
they have produced. They will be entirely disappointed, and
my conjecture is, that, contrary to their wishes, their pride will
drive them to declare war against us. On the 13th of June, Gen.
Pinckney was still at Lyons ; his daughter was much better, and
he flattered himself with the expectation of being able to reach
Bourdeaux and to embark by the middle of this month. On the
26th of June, Mr. Gerry was at Paris, waiting, say letters from
Americans who are about him, for the ultimatum of the Directory.
Letters are sent in every direction by the Americans in Paris,
which say that the Directory hold a conciliatory language, and
that Mr. Gerry is in hopes to procure terms which will be honor-
able and satisfactory to his country. I thought it impossible
that any future step of Mr. G. could exceed in and

what had passed when he decided to separate from his colleagues
and remain at Paris, but I was mistaken. His answer to Talley-
rand's demands of the names of X. Y. and Z. place him in a

314 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

more degraded light than I ever believed it possible that he or
any other American could be exhibited.

I send you Bellamy's address. It, as well as all that has been
published, serves to confirm the public detestation against the Di-
rectory. The American dispatches have been circulated through-
out Europe, and have every where done much good, and in-
creased the reputation of our government.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London. 31st July, 1798.
You will believe that I have been much gratified by the late
intelligence from home. France has calculated all her plans on
our decisions, and the expectation that her friends, if not more
numerous, would be more active, and possess greater energy, than
the friends of our government, — or rather, she has believed that
our government, like that of every country that she has suc-
ceeded to overturn and enslave, would act with such timidity,
and in so qualified a manner, that the affections and support of
the people would be easily withdrawn from, and even turned
against it. If the government continue to speak and act with de-
cision, the people will become more and more united, and still
better inclined to execute its purposes. This opinion should be
taken in connection with an observation (the importance of
which appears to me the greater the oftener I consider it) that I
have suggested in more than one of my late letters. The com-
position of addresses, and the forming of volunteer associations>
who will have nothing to do, are for the present well ; but they
will cease to be novelties, and soon become tiresome, and to be
secure, you must have some sufficient object that "will interest
and employ the passions of the nation. The mere defensive sys-
tem of the enemies of France has been a principal cause of her
success, and if we adopt the error, we shall be exposed to
greater risques, than by a bold and active system, which, ex-

jEt. 41.] correspondence. 315

elusive of being the most certain means of safety, would promise
the acquisition of great and lasting advantages. The destiny of
the new world, and I have a full and firm persuasion that it will
be both happy and glorious, is in our hands. We have a right,
and it is our duty, to deliberate and to act, not as secondaries, but
as principals. The object and the occasion are such as we ought
not, in respect to ourselves or others, to suffer to pass un-
improved.

I have nothing to observe in reference to the subject of regret
and complaint mentioned in your last letter. You will not
doubt that all the means in my power have been employed to
correct the mischief. They have served only to convince me
that it is incorrigible. It is an evil too deeply rooted, and too
powerfully protected, to be cured ; and it is something gained to
know that it is so. If we are wise, we shall hasten the events
that will place the remedy in our own hands. A frigate return-
ing from Malta to Toulon with dispatches, and a general officer?
has been captured by an English frigate, and we are told that
Buonaparte had sailed on his expedition two days before the
English fleet that pursues him arrived there. If so, the French
fleet is in great danger. Many persons think that great events
depend on the success or failure of Buonaparte's expedition. All
the late accounts from Paris say a new storm is at hand, but none
express a hope that the changes it may effect will make the con-
dition of France or of others better. Gerry still hangs about
the Directory ! ! At Bastadt the Congress continues, and the jeal-
ousies between Austria and Prussia, artfully kept alive by the com-
mon enemy, prevent that hearty union, without which no suc-
cessful co-operation will take place against France.

In Ireland the rebellion is suppressed, and our government
will, I hope, have the power and inclination to exclude those
disaffected characters, who will be suffered to seek any asylum
among us. England is more than ever united, and resolves, with
confidence in the superiority of her resources, to prosecute the
war. There is no talk of peace, nor is there any appearance
which would lead to an opinion, that new overtures for that pur-
pose are likely soon to be made.

316 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

On the other hand, France is undoubtedly extremely embar-
rassed any longer to find the money necessary to maintain her
arms, and carry on the war.

Be so kind as to present my affectionate respects and con-
gratulations to the governor. I ought to write to him ; but I
consider a letter to him or you, as nearly the same.
With great truth and attachment I am,
Dear Sir, yours, &c.

P. S. — We have just heard that Gerry has received his pass-
port. At the close of Talleyrand's letter, sending it, he says,
though the Directory, as a measure of precaution, has laid an
embargo upon all American vessels, "telle est la repugnance du
Directoire a, considerer les Etats Unis comme ennemis, qui malgre
leurs demonstrations hostiles, il veut attendre, qu'il y voitirresisti-
bilement force pas des hostilites reelles."

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

Philadelphia, July 8th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I was much surprised on my arrival here to discover that
your nomination had been without any previous consultation of
you. Convinced of the goodness of the motives, it would be use-
less to scan the propriety of the step. It is taken, and the ques-
tion is, what, under the circumstances, ought to be done ? I use
the liberty which my attachment to you and to the public au-
thorizes, to offer my opinion that you should not decline the ap-
pointment. It is evident that the public satisfaction at it is lively
and universal. It is not to be doubted that the circumstance will
give an additional spring to the public mind — will tend much to
unite, and will facilitate the measures which the conjuncture re-
quires. On the other hand, your declining would certainly pro-
duce the opposite effects, would throw a great damp upon the

jEt.4L] correspondence. 317

ardor of the country, inspiring the idea that the crisis was not
really serious or alarming. At least, then, let me entreat you,
and in this all your friends, indeed all good citizens will unite,
that if you do not give an unqualified acceptance, that you ac-
cept provisionally, making your entering upon the duties to depend
on future events, so that the community may look up to you as
their certain commander. But I prefer a simple acceptance.

It may be well, however, to apprise you, that the arrange-
ment of the army may demand your particular attention. The
President has no relative ideas, and his prepossessions on military
subjects in reference to such a point are of the wrong sort. It
is easy for us to have a good army, but the selection requires
care. It is necessary to inspire confidence in the efficient part of
those who may incline to military service. Much adherence to
routine would do great harm. Men of capacity and exertion in
the higher stations are indispensable. It deserves consideration,
whether your presence at the seat of government is not neces-
sary. If you accept, it will be conceived that the arrangement
is yours, and you will be responsible for it in reputation. This,
and the influence of a right arrangement upon future success,
seem to require that you should, in one mode or another, see effi-
caciously that the arrangement is such as you would approve.
I remain dear Sir,

Your affectionate and obedient servant.

JAY TO PICKERING.

New- York, July 10th; 1798.

Dear Sir:

I this morning received the two copies you was so obliging
as to send me of the state papers, published in pursuance of the
resolution of Congress, of the 22d June. They shall be laid be-
fore our legislature at the approaching session. Every true
American here rejoices that General Washington has accepted

318 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

the command of the army. It is an auspicious event. Being of
the number of those who expect a severe war with France, the
moment she makes peace with Britain, I feel great anxiety that
nothing may be omitted to prepare for it. At the commence-
ment, and indeed during the course of our revolutionary war,
we suffered from the inefficiency of too many of our military of-
ficers. Great care should be taken to avoid the like mistakes.
Form and rank cannot compensate for the want of essential qual-
ifications. To pass by certain characters cannot but be unpleas-
ant; and yet, in my opinion, public good forbids their being
called to the field. We shall probably have very different Gen-
erals to contend with from those which Britain sent here last
war ; and we should have very different ones to oppose them
from several of those who then led our troops. I cannot conceal
from you my solicitude, that the late Secretary of the Treasury
may be brought forward in a manner corresponding with his
talents and services.

It appears to me that his former military station and char-
acter, taken in connection with his late important place in the
administration, would justify measuring his rank by his merit
and value. Pardon these hints ; I know that these matters are
not within my department, but they occupy my mind continu-
ally. It is an agreeable circumstance that our President, not-
withstanding the diplomatic skill of France, stands high in the
pubiic estimation and confidence, and that the utmost reliance
may be reposed in his patriotism. He has much to think of and
to do; but while his measures are well matured, deliberately
adopted, and vigorously executed, his administration will be ren-
dered more and more glorious by successive difficulties.

Yours sincerely,

John Jay.

jEt.41.] correspondence. 319

WASHINGTON TO PICKERING.

Mount Vkrnon, 11th Jnly, 1798.

Dear Sir :

As I never get letters by the mail until the morning after they arrive in Alex-
andria, and frequently not for several days, as I am not regular in sending thither,
your favor of the 6th instant did not reach my hands until yesterday. Of the
fitness and abilities of the gentleman you have named for a high command in the
provisional army, I think as you do ; and that his services ought to be secured at
almost any price. What the difficulties are that present themselves to the mind
of the President, in opposition to this measure, I am entirely ignorant ; but in
confidence, and with the frankness you have disclosed your own sentiments on this
occasion, I will unfold mine, under the view I have taken of the prospect before
us; and shall do it concisely. If the French should be so mad as openly and
formidably to invade these United States, in expectation of subjugating the gov-
ernment, laying them under contribution, or in hope of dissolving the Union, I con-
ceive there can hardly be two opinions respecting their plan, and that their opera-
tions will commence in the southern quarter. 1. Because it is the weakest.
2. Because they will expect, from the tenor of the debates in Congress, to find
more friends there. 3. Because there can be no doubt of their arming our own
negroes against us ; and 4. Because they will be more contiguous to their islands,
and to Louisiana, if they should be possessed thereof; which they will be, if they
can. If these premises are just, the inference I am going to draw, from placing
Colonel Hamilton over General Pinckney, is natural and obvious. The latter is
an officer of high military reputation — fond of the profession, spirited, active, and
judicious ; and much advanced in the estimation of the public by his late conduct
as Minister and Envoy at Paris. With these pretensions, and being senior to
Colonel Hamiltion, he would not, I am morally certain, accept a junior appoint-
ment. Disgust would follow, and its influence would spread, where most to be
deprecated, as his connections are numerous, powerful, and more influential than
any other in the three southern States. Under this view of the subject I think it
would be impolitic, and might be dangerous, to sow the seeds of discontent at
so important a crisis. To this may be added, that impediments to the return of
General Pinckney, and causes unforeseen, might place Colonel Hamilton in the
situation you wish to see him. Inspector-General, with a command in the line,
would, I hope and trust," satisfy him. You already perceive that the difficulty in
my mind arises from thorough conviction that, if an invasion is attempted, it will
commence south of Maryland, and from the importance of so influential a charac-
ter as Pinckney (if among us) being heartily engaged in repelling it. But not
having the laws at hand to resort to, or knowing precisely what general officers
are authorized by them, I am speaking much at random, and request, for that
reason, that nothing which I have here said may be considered definitive. What

320 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

arrangements the Secretary of War is empowered by the President to make with
me. I know not. In the letter of the former to me, he has not touched npon
them. He is not yet arrived, but the bearer of this to the post-office in Alexan-
dria, carries up my carriage in order to accommodate him down ; this being the
afternoon on which the mail stage is expected at that place. I regret, however,
that lie should have left Philadelphia before a letter which I had written him could
have reached that place. This letter went from hence on Friday last, before I
knew or had the most distant suspicion of the President's intention of nominating
me (without previous notice) to the trust he has done, but was written in conse-
quence of a wish expressed in a letter from the Secretary to me, that the crisis
might overcome my reluctance to appear again on the public theatre. Upon this
occasion I thought it expedient before matters proceeded further, to be candid and
explicit, and accordingly wrote him my sentiments in detail, the substance of
which was — that if an actual invasion by a formidable force, or such demonstra-
tions of the intention as could not be mistaken, I conceived it to be a duty which
I owed to my country, and to my own reputation, to step forward with my best
endeavors to repel it, however painful the measure might be to a person of my
time of life, and under the circumstances I am ; but for the satisfaction of my
own mind I should like to know, from the best evidence the case was susceptible
of, that my services as Commander-in-Chief would be preferred to th'ose of a man
of more juvenile years, in the prime and vigor of life. And that as neither ambi
tion, interest, or personal gratification of any sort, could induce me to engage
again in the turmoils and hazards of war, — as I had every thing to risk, and
hardly any thing to gain, (the vicissitudes of war being in the hands of the
Supreme Director, where no control is,) and as the army was about to be formed,
and every thing in a manner depending upon the arrangement and organization,
it could not be expected that I would take the command of it without previously
knowing who my coadjutors were to be, and having the assistance of those in
whom I could place confidence. I mentioned no names, for at that time I knew
nothing of my own appointment, and thought the matter too much in embryo to
go further, and to allow him, if a fit occasion occurred, to let these, as my senti-
ments, be known to the President. I shall conclude with sincere esteem and
legard,

Dear Sir,

Your obedient and affectionate servant,

George Washington.

.1t.41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 321

KING TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

London, July 14th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I send you inclosed an interesting little piece, addressed to
Gallatin, by a former citizen of Geneva — if translated and pub-
lished, it may do good. We have no news from the Mediterra-
nean since the capture of Malta, nor can we do more than con-
jecture the future destination of Bonaparte. Turin, with its
arsenals, is possessed by a French army, so that Sardinia is at the
feet of the Directory. The Emperor continues to recruit his
armies, and is now laying up magazines in the Tyrol. His ex-
penses are said to be equal to those of an open war, and his re-
sources unequal to his present expenditures. Prussia manifests
no inclination to enter into a new coalition against France ; and
there are who suspect a most intimate connection between these
powers. In short, the fate of Europe is as uncertain and difficult
to understand as at any period of the war.

It is at least ten days since the spirited measures pursued in
America must have been known at Paris ; we are therefore anx-
ious to learn the effect they have produced. They will be en-
tirely disappointed; and my conjecture is, that, contrary to their
wishes, their pride will drive them to declare war against us.
On the 13th of June General Pinckney was still at Lyons ; his
daughter was much better ; and he flattered himself with the ex-
pectation of being able to reach Bourdeaux, and to embark by
the middle of this month.

On the 26th of June Mr. Gerry was at Paris, waiting, say let-
ters from Americans who are about him, for the ultimatum of the
Directory. Letters are sent in every direction by the Americans
at Paris, which say, that the Directory hold a conciliatory lan-
guage, and that Mr. Gerry is in hopes to procure terms which will
be honorable and satisfactory to his country. I thought it im-
possible that any future step of Mr. G could exceed in

and ■ what had passed, when he decided to separate from his

f 21

322 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41

colleagues and remain at Paris ; but I was mistaken. His an-
swer to Talleyrand's demands of the names of X, Y, and Z, place
him in a more degraded light than I ever believed it possible
that he or any other American could be exhibited.

I send you Bellamy's address. It, as well as all that has
been published, serves to confirm the public detestation against
the Directory. The American dispatches have been circulated
throughout Europe, and have every where done much good, and
increased the reputation of our government.

WASHINGTON" TO HAMILTON.
(private and confidential.)

Mount Vernon, July 14th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 8th instant was presented to me by the
Secretary of War on the 11th, and I have consented to embark
once more on a boundless field of responsibility and trouble,
with two reservations. First, that the principal officers in the
line and of the staff shall be such as I can place confidence in ;
and that I shall not be called into the field until the army is in a
situation to require my presence, or it becomes indispensable by
the urgency of circumstances; contributing, in the meanwhile,
every thing in my power to its efficiency and organization, but
nothing to the public expense, until I am in a situation to incur
expense myself.

It will be needless, after giving you this information, and
having indelibly engraved on my mind, the assurance contained
in your letter of the 2d of June, to add, that I rely upon you as
a coadjutor and assistant in the turmoils I have consented to
encounter.

I have communicated very fully with the Secretary of War
on the several matters contained in the powers vested in him by

^Et. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 323

the President ; who, as far as it appears by them, is well dis-
posed to accommodate. But I must confess that besides nomi-
nating me to the command of the armies without any previous
consultation or notice, the whole of that business seems to me to
stand upon such ground, as may render the Secretary's journey
and our consultation of no avail.

Congress, it is said, would rise this week. What then has
been done, or can the President do, with respect to appointments
under that bill, if it has been enacted ? Be his inclinations what
they may, unless the law could and has passed, enabling him in
the recess of the Senate to make appointments conformable
thereto, the nominations must have been made, and the business
done here with the Secretary is rendered nugatory.

By the pending bill^if it passes to a law, two Major-Generals,
and an Inspector-General with the rank of Major- General, and
three Brigadiers, are to be appointed. Presuming on its pass-
ing, I have given the following as my sentiment respecting the
characters fit and proper to be employed ; in which the Secre-
tary concurs.

Alexander Hamilton, Inspector, ~]

Charles C. Pinckney, I

Henry Knox, or if either of the last } Major-General,
mentioned refuses,

Henry Lee, of Virginia,

Henry Lee, (if not Major-General,)

John Brooks, Massachusetts, I .

William S. Smith, New- York, or f^g^rs.

John E. Howard, Maryland, J

Either Edward Hand, Pen. 1

Jonathan Dayton, jr., New Jersey, or ^Adjutant-General.

William S. Smith, to be J

Edward Carrington, Quartermaster-General.

James Craik, Director of Hospitals.
And I have enumerated the most prominent characters that
have occurred to my mind, from whom to select field officers for
the regiments of infantry, and that of cavalry, which are pro-
posed to be raised.

324 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

And now, my dear sir, with that candor which you always
have, and I trust ever will experience from me, I shall express to
von a difficulty which has arisen in my mind, relative to senior-
ity between you and General Pinckney ; for with respect to my
friend General Knox, whom I love and esteem, I have ranked
him below }^ou both. That you may know from whence this
difficulty proceeds, it is proper I should observe, and give it as
my decided opinion, that if the French should be so mad as to
invade this country in expectation of making a serious impres-
sion, that their operations will commence in the States south of
Maryland; 1st, because they are the weakest; 2d, because they
will expect from the tenor of the debates in Congress, to find more
friends there ; 3d, because there can be no doubt of their arming
the negroes against us ; and 4th, because they would be more
contiguous to their islands, and to Louisiana and the Floridas,
if they can obtain possession of them ; and that this will be the
case, if they are able to accomplish it, is, to my mind, a matter
that admits of no doubt.

If these premises are just, the inference is obvious, that the
services and influence of General Pinckney in the southern
States would be of the highest and most interesting importance.
Will he serve, then, under one whom he will consider his junior
officer? and what would be the consequence if he should refuse,
and his numerous and powerful connections and acquaintances
in those parts get disgusted ? You have, no doubt, heard that
his military reputation stands high in the southern States ; that
he is viewed as a brave, intelligent, and enterprising officer ; and,
if report be true, that no officer in the late American army
made tactics and the art of war so much his study. To this
account of him may be added, that his character has received
much celebrity by his conduct as minister and envoy at Paris.

Under this view of the subject, my wish to put you first, and
my fear of losing him, is not a little embarrassing. But why?
for after all it rests with the President to use his pleasure. I
shall only add, therefore, that as the welfare of the country is
the object I persuade myself we all have in view, I shall san«
guinely hope that smaller matters will yield to measures which

jEt.^1.] correspondence. 325

have a tendency to promote it. I wish devoutly that either of
you or any other fit character had been nominated in my place ;
for no one can make a greater sacrifice, at least of inclination,
than your ever affectionate

Geo. Washington.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, July 16, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I have just received from General Washington an answer to
my letter which I showed you.

The General appears to have contemplated attentively the
nature of the impending war with France, and that the Southern
States (if any part of the Union) will be invaded. Admitting
this idea to be correct, the General says :

" The inference I am going to draw from placing Col. Hamil-
ton over General Pinckney is natural and obvious. The latter
is an officer of high military reputation, fond of the profession,
spirited, active and judicious, and much advanced in the estima-
tion of the public by his late conduct as minister and envoy
at Paris. With these pretensions, and being senior to Colonel
Hamilton, he would not, I am morally certain, accept a junior
appointment ; and its influence* would spread where most to be
deprecated, as his connections are numerous, powerful, and more
influential than any other in the three Southern States. Under
this view of the subject, it would be impolitic, and might be dan-
gerous, to sow the seed of discontent at so important a crisis. To
this may be added, that impediments to the return of General
Pinckney, and causes unforeseen, might place Col. Hamilton in
the situation }^ou wish to see him. You will readily perceive
that the difficulty in my mind arises from a thorough conviction
that, if an invasion is attempted, it will commence South of Ma-

* I suppose, of General Piuckney's non-acceptance.

326 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M* 41.

ryland; and from the importance of so influential a character as
Pinckney (if among us) being heartily engaged in repelling it.'.'

The General concludes, from this reasoning, with hoping that
the office of Inspector-General, with a command in the line,
will prove satisfactory to you. I ought to have first quoted the
General's preliminary observation : " Of the abilities and fitness
of the gentleman you have named for a high command in the
provisional army, I think as you do, and that his services ought
to be secured at almost any price."

These communications from the General to me are "in confi-
dence," and as such you will receive them. I presume there
is some understanding between you on the subject. At all
events, I trust that the same genuine patriotism which deter-
mined you and some others to encounter the perils of the Amer-
ican Eevolution, and by your talents and active labors to swell
another's glory, will prompt you again to come forth in a situa-
tion, if not at the height of my wishes and of those of your
friends, certainly in a situation in which you can render invalu-
able services, and as certainly obtain a large share of honor and
military fame.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, July 17, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I thank you for your friendly letter by the post. I had not
contemplated the possibility that Knox might come into service,
and was content to be second to him, if thought indispensable.
Pinckney, if placed over me, puts me a grade lower. I don't be-
lieve it to be necessary. I am far from certain that he will not
be content to serve under me, but I am willing that the affair
should be so managed as that the relative ranks may remain
open to future settlement, to ascertain the effect of the arrange-
ment which has been contemplated.

Mt.U.] CORRESPONDENCE. 327

I am not, however, ready to say, that I shall be satisfied with
the appointment of Inspector-General, with the rank and com-
mand of Major-General, on the principle that every officer of
higher rank in the late army, who may be appointed, is to be
above me.

I am frank to own that this will not accord with my opinion
of my own pretensions, and I have every reason to believe that
it will fall far short of public opinion.

Few have made so many sacrifices as myself. To few would
a change of situation for a military appointment be so injurious
as myself. If, with this sacrifice, I am to be degraded below my
just claim in public opinion, ought I to acquiesce?

Yours affectionately, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.
(confidential.)

Philadelphia, July 18th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I have before me yours of yesterday. In the morning of yes-
terday, McHenry returned with General Washington's accept-
ance of the command of the armies, and a list in the General's
own handwriting, in which the names of the inspector-general
and major-generals stand thus :

Inspector-General, Alexander Hamilton.
Major-General, Charles C. Pinckney.

Ditto, Henry Knox.

Ditto, Henry Lee, ) For the Pro-

Ditto, Edward Hand, $ visional Army.

Then follow the names of old officers from whom to select-
brigadiers, &c, and unfortunately among those for brigadiers was
that of William S. Smith, the President's son in-law. It was
concluded yesterday to nominate Mr. Dayton (the Speaker of the

328 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 41

House) adjutant-general, with the rank of brigadier-general, but
I believe the President has changed his mind, and will appoint
Dayton 3d brigadier, and Smith 4th, with the office of adjutant-
general. Your nomination stands first as above, — thus: — A.
Hamilton of New-York, inspector-general, with the rank of
major-general. I deprecate the appointment of Smith, which will
injure the President in two ways ; 1st, because he is the Presi-
dent's son-in-law, for this will be contrasted with General Wash-
ington's caution to steer clear of his relations ; 2d, because
Smith is a bankrupt ; and if I am rightly informed, with a ruined
reputation.

I have not time now to add, but that I am as ever, sincerely
yours, &c.

P. S. — I wish the Senate, after passing on the inspector-general
and major-general, may postpone all the brigadiers till next ses-
sion in autumn. Then perhaps a better arrangement may be
made. Pardon me for repudiating exceedingly the idea of your
being made subordinate to Knox. Nobody ever thought of such
a thing.

HAMILTON TO DUPORTAIL.

New-Yokk, July 23, 1798.

My Dear General:

Though it is a great while since I have heard from you, I have
not ceased to inquire after you, and I shall never cease to in-
terest myself in your welfare.

You have seen the progress of things between this country
and France ; and you must have made reflections on your own
situation. I am aware that the idea of your entering in any way
into the military service of this country, on such an occasion, is
one of great delicacy, and opposed by many motives. But know-
ing your opinion, as to the revolution and revolutionary leaders
of your country, I have thought it not wholly impossible, that

Mt.41.] correspondence. 329

such an idea would not be entirely disagreeable to you ; and I
am desirous of ascertaining, in the most scrupulous confidence,
the state of your mind on this point. The subject may divide
itself into employment in the field, and employment out of the
field.

When I take the liberty to sound you on this head, I ought
to assure you, as is truly the case, that the step is wholly from
the suggestion of my own mind, and that I am altogether at a
loss to conjecture, whether those who must decide the matter
would be at all disposed to avail themselves of your services.

I pray you nevertheless to open to me freely* your heart on
this point, in the fullest reliance upon my prudence, honor, and
delicacy. If it were not to intrude too much upon you, I would
recpiiest you to favor me with a digested plan of an establishment
for a military school. This is an object I have extremely at
heart.

Yours with true esteem and regard, &c.

PICKERING TO JAY.

Philadelphia, Jnly 28, 1793.

Dear Sir :

I have this moment received your letter of the 18th. By the newspapers
which go hence this morning, you will see your wishes respecting Colonel
Hamilton gratified. At the head of the appointments he is inspector-genera
with the rank of major-general. This was intended to place him next in com-
mand to Gen. Washington, yet I feel some solicitude about the effect. Under
circumstances not dissimilar in the American war, I believe some staff officers,
not taken from the line, were resisted in their claims to command officers of in-
ferior rank in the line. I wish, therefore, that the act of Congress, authorizing
the appointment of an " inspector-general with the rank of major-general," had
been explicit ; that the inspector-general might be appointed from among those
who should be major-generals, or that some mode had been devised to remove all
doubt of Colonel Hamilton's right to command all the major-generals under the
law as it stands. I take very kindly the communication of your sentiments in
this matter, and shall feel my obligations increased with the future communica-
tion of your ideas and opinions on every subject involving the safety, the interest,

330 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 41.

ami the happiness of our country. But, although I deem so lowly of my own
discernment in such weighty concerns as to render such communications from you
and other eminent citizens peculiarly grateful, yet, on the present occasion, I can-
not withhold the pleasure of showing you the perfect coincidence of our thoughts,
by presenting you with a copy of my letter of the 6th instant, to Gen. Washington.
Colonel Hamilton arrived here the next morning, and in the freedom and confi-
dence with which we conversed, I handed it to him to peruse. General Wash-
ington's answer of the 11th, I received the 16th, and sent to Colonel Hamilton
extracts, to show the current of the General's reasoning; concluding with an
expression of my hopes, that as he (Colonel Hamilton) had in the war for our
independence devoted his talents to enhance another's glory, so he would not
withhold them now that the preservation of that independence demanded their
fullest exertions. After that, Mr. McHenry returned, and informed me that
Gen. Washington was some time balancing between the priority of Col. Hamilton
and General Pinckney ; weighing the high respectability and importance of the
latter in the three Southern States, against the superior talents of the former;
the latter finally preponderating. Perhaps the observations in my letter of the
6th, which I perceive General Washington did not communicate to McHenry,
might have turned the scale. I send you herein the General's answer, which I
will thank you to return. 1 was rejoiced that the Senate had the fortitude to put
a decided negative on the President's nomination of his son-in-law, Will am S.
Smith, to be adjutant-general with the rank of brigadier. When I saw that the
President was invincibly bent on the nomination, I did not hesitate to inform a
number of Senators of it, and to urge their negative for the honor, and even for
the safety, of the army. The President did not know that Colonel S. was
* * * * * * an(j that he had totally mistaken his military talents. I
spoke to so many, and with so little reserve, that I thought it not probable that
my interference would eventually be known to the President ; but I chose to
hazard his displeasure, rather than the approbation of that nomination. Unfor-
tunately, General Washington had arranged the name of Colonel Smith among
the candidates for the office of a brigadier. I am aware the step I took was a
delicate one, and even its propriety may perhaps be questioned. If the candidate
in question had not been so nearly connected with the President, and if the latter
had not so peremptorily pronounced the eulogium of the former as a great mili-
tary character, and in a tone to forbid any reply, it would have become me to
have frankly stated my opinion of his true character, and total unworthiness and
unfitness to fill that important place. If, in taking the other course, I have done
wrong, my motives I hope will make my apology with you, and some others,
whose good opinions are peculiarly dear to me.

With true respect, I am, dear Sir,

Your obedient servant, &c.

Mt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 331

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

July 29th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 14th inst. did not reach me till after the
appointments mentioned in it were made.

I see clearly, in what has been done, a new mark of your
confidence, which I value as I ought to do.

With regard to the delicate subject of the relative rank of the
major-generals, it is very natural for me to be a partial judge,
and it is not very easy for me to speak upon it. If I know my-
self, however, this at least I may say, that were I convinced of
injustice being done to others in my favor, I should not hesitate
even to volunteer a correction of it, as far as my consent would
avail. But, in a case like this, am I not to take the opinion of
others as my guide ? If I am, the conclusion is that the gentle-
men concerned ought to acquiesce. It is a fact, of which there
is a flood of evidence, that a real majority of leading federal men
were of opinion that, in the event of your declining the command
of the army, it ought to devolve upon me, and that in ease of
your acceptance, which every body ardently desired, the place of
second in command ought to be mine.

It is not for me to examine the justness of this opinion. The
illusions of self-love might be expected too easily to give it credit
with me. But, finding it to exist, am I at liberty to seek to post-
pone myself to others, in whose hands, according to that opinion,
the public interests would be less well confided ? Such are the
reflections which would have determined me to let the business
take its course.

My own opinion at the same time is, that of the two gentle-
men postponed to me, the cause of complaint, if any, applies em-
phatically to General Knox. His rank in the army was much
higher than that either of Pinckney or myself. Pinckney's pre-
tensions, on the score of real service, are not extensive ; those of
Knox are far greater. Pinckney has, no doubt, studied tactics
with great care and assiduity, but it is not presumable that he is
as well versed in the tactics of a general as Knox.

332 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. Ah

Pinckncy's rank, at the close of the war, was nominally greater
than mine ; it was, indeed, of more ancient date. But when, in
the year 1777, the regiments of artillery were multiplied, I had
good reason to expect that the command of one of them would
have fallen to me, had I not changed my situation ; and this, in
all probability, would have led farther. I am aware, at the same
time, that there were accidental impediments to Pinckney's pro-
gress in preferment; but an accurate comparison would, I imagine,
show, that on the score of rank merely, the claim of superiority
on his part is not strongly marked. As to military service, I
venture to believe, that the general understanding of the late
army would allow a considerable balance to me.

As to. civil services since the war, I am extremely mistaken
if in the minds of federal men there is any comparison between
us. The circumstances of the moment, it is true, gave him a cer-
tain eclat; but judicious men reduce the merit to the two points
of prudent forbearance, and the firmness not to sacrifice his coun-
try by base compliances. In all this, it is very far from my in-
clination to detract from General Pinckney. I have a sincere
regard for him, and hold him in high estimation. At the same
time, endeavoring to view the matter with all the impartiality
my situation permits, I must conclude that General Pinckney, on
a fair estimate of all circumstances, ought to be well satisfied with
the arrangement.

After saying thus much, I will add, that regard to the public
interest is ever predominant with me — that if the gentlemen con-
cerned are dissatisfied, and the service destined to suffer by the
preference given to me, I stand ready to submit our relative pre-
tensions to an impartial decision, and to waive the preference.
It shall never be said, with any color of truth, that my ambition
or interest has stood in the way of public good.

Thus, sir, have I opened my heart to you with as little re-
serve as to myself, willing, rather, that its weaknesses should ap-
pear, than that I should be deficient in frankness. I will only
add, that I do not think it necessary to make public beforehand
the ultimate intention I have now disclosed.

It is possible the difficulties anticipated may not arise. But,

yEr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 333

my clear sir, there is a matter of far greater moment than all this,
which I must do violence to my friendship, by stating to you,
but of which it is essential you should be apprised. It is, that
my friend McHenry is wholly insufficient for his place, with the
additional misfortune, of not having the least suspicion of the
fact. This, generally, will not surprise you, when you take into
view the large scale upon which he is now to act. But you, per-
haps, may not be aware of the whole extent of the insufficiency.
It is so great as to leave no probability that the business of the
War Department can make any tolerable progress in his hands.
This has been long observed, and has been more than mentioned
to the President by members of Congress.

He is not insensible, I believe, that the execution of the de-
partment does not produce the expected results ; but the case is,
of course, delicate and embarrassing.

My real friendship for McHenry concurring with my zeal for
the service, predisposed me to aid him in all that he could prop-
erly throw upon me, and I thought that he would have been glad
in the organization of the army, and in the conduct of the recruit-
ing service, to make me useful to him. With this view, I came
to this city ; and I previously opened the way, as far as I could
with the least decency. But the idea has thus far been very par-
tially embraced, and to-morrow or next day I shall return to
New- York without much fruit of my journey. I mention this
purely to apprise you of the course of things, and the probable
results.

It is to be regretted, that the supposition of co-operation be-
tween the Secretary of War and the principal military officers
will unavoidably throw upon the latter a part of the blame which
the ill success of the operations of the War Department may be
expected to produce. Thus, you perceive, sir, your perplexities
are begun.

Most respectfully and affectionately,

I have the honor to remain, Sir, &c.

General Washington.

P. S. Since writing the above, I have concluded to write a

334 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

letter, of which the inclosed is the copy. This effort to save a man
I value, and promote the service, has, under the circumstances,
cost something tp my delicacy.

Mr. Harper, of the House of Eepresentatives, is desirous of
being in your family. He is a man of very considerable talents,
and has the temper of a soldier. The shade to his useful quali-
ties is vanity ; but I think the good much outweighs the ill.
Pardon this liberty in a point so delicate.

New-York, August 1st, 1798.

The above was written at Philadelphia ; but a pressing call
to this place, added to occupation there, prevented my being able
to copy and forward it till now.

Give me leave to suggest the expediency of your asking of
McHenry a statement of all the military supplies, cannon, arms,
&c, which are already provided, and of the means and measures
provided and in execution for augmenting the quantity. This
will give you necessary information, and prompt to exertion.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

August 6th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

You are probably apprised, that in announcing to the general
officers their appointments, they are told that the emoluments are
to be suspended until called into actual service, and that, as a
consequence of this plan, they are to remain inactive.

This project suits admirably my private arrangements, by
leaving me to pursue, in full extent, my profession. But I be-
lieve it accords neither with the intention of the individuals who
framed the laws, nor with the good of the service. It is impos-
sible for McHenry to get through all that is now upon his hands
in a manner honorable to himself, satisfactory to the public, or
proportioned to the energy of the conjuncture. You will see by

.F/r. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 535

the inclosed, that I have sacrificed my delicacy to my friendship
and public zeal. I have heard nothing in reply. I thought it
expedient that you and Colonel Pickering should understand, in
confidence, the situation of things. Without a change of plan,
they will not go, and the government, and all concerned, will be
discredited.

HAMILTON TO GEN. DAYTON.

New-York, August 6th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I received, at Philadelphia, your letter of the 27th July, the
answer to which has been delayed by excessive occupation.

You know I trust sufficiently my sentiments of you, not to
need being told how much pleasure your appointment gave me,
and how highly I value the confidence you express in me.

It will probably be unexpected to you to be told that I am
not yet in the exercise of the functions of my military office, and
that my participation in the preliminary arrangements is only oc-
casional, and very limited.

Such, however, is the course of the plan which has been
adopted by the Executive.

But I have, notwithstanding, had conversations with the Sec-
retary at War on the points you mention, and to the extent.of
my opportunity have endeavored to promote a right direction.
You no doubt have before this received a letter from the Secre-
tary on the subject of proper characters for officers. It seems to
be determined, in his mind, to appoint Col. Aaron Ogden to the
command of a regiment.

Every body must consider him as a great acquisition in this
station. The part of your letter which respects him, announcing
the certainty of his acceptance, was particularly grateful to me.

Inclosed you will receive instructions for the recruiting service,
which were previously prepared by the Secretary at War. I made
such remarks upon them as hastily occurred. Examine them

336 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

carefully, and suggest to me whatever amendments or additions
may present themselves to you. You will oblige me by free
communications at all times.

HAMILTON TO SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.

New-York, August 7th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

Capt. Kobert Hamilton, a first cousin of mine, is desirous of
employment in this country in the line of his profession. He is
regularly bred to the sea, which he has followed since he was
fourteen years old, and has had the best opportunities of improve-
ment— among others that of voyages to the East Indies. He has
also commanded a ship, and has acted as supercargo. I venture
with confidence to recommend him as well qualified, and every
way worthy ; adding to skill in his profession, the sentiments
of a gentleman, good morals, intelligence and prudence. I in-
terest myself very much in his success, and shall esteem it as a
personal favor to myself whatever may be done for his interest.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Mount Vernon, 9th August, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

By the same post which brought me your favor, began in
Philadelphia and ended in New- York the 1st instant, I received
a letter from General Knox, dated the 29th ult., in answer to one
I had written him on the 16th of that month. In confidence,
and as a proof of my frankness and friendship, I send both of

/Et. 41.] correspondence. 337

them to you, together with my reply of this date ; which, after
reading, be so good as to return to me.

Giving you the perusal of this correspondence, supersedes the
necessity of my going into further details on the subject of rela-
tive rank ; except, if the commissions are yet to issue, and it be
practicable at this time, and consistent also, I should not be indis-
posed (so far as my agency in the business extends), if that would
satisfy General Knox, to make him the senior of General Pinck-
ney. But, as the President is absent — and it might have been
the understanding of the Senate that the latter should be first —
the propriety of the change, unless it could be effected with the
consent of General Pinckney, might at least be questioned.
Though, upon more mature reflection, I do not see upon what
principle he could object. I have a high opinion of General
Pinckney's qualifications as an officer, and his integrity as a man,
but under the impression I am that the southern hemisphere will
be the grand theatre of action, I shall honestly confess that my
primary object in gratifying hjni, is, that he may come forward
with all his force.

Your opinion respecting the unfitness of a certain gentleman
for the office he holds, accords with mine, and it is to be regretted,
sorely, at this time, that these opinions are so well founded. I
early discovered after he entered upon the duties of his office,
that his talents were unequal to great exertions or deep resources.
In truth they were not expected ; for the fact is, it was a Hobson's
choice. But such is the case, and what is to be done ?

I am held in the most profound ignorance of every step that
has been taken since he left this place ; and but for other letters
which I have been obliged to have ready for this day's post, I
should have written very seriously to him on several matters
highly interesting to me, if I am to be called to the field ; and
that which you have mentioned among the rest. I am not at this
moment made acquainted with a single step that is taken to ap-
point an officer, or recruit a man, or where the rendezvouses are.
Numberless applications have been made to me to recommend
for commissions, and such as appeared to have merit I forwarded,
but know nothing of the result.
F 22

338 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

Let mc hope that you will be able to devote a good deal of
your time to the business of recruiting good men — and the choice
of good officers. It is all important. I will endeavor to impress
him with the propriety of requiring your assistance in these mat-
ters ; and of the necessity of making you the full allowance of
pay, &c, for these services. By bringing you thus in contact a
thousand other matters will fall in of course. Delicacy, if mat-
ters become serious, must yield to expediency. The stake we
play for is too great to be trifled with.

Mr. Harper has been presented to my consideration before, as
an aid-de-camp — but as I have no use for my military family un-
til matters are more matured, I am unwilling to be embarrassed
by engagements. My aids, as you well know, must be men of
business, and ought to be officers of experience. Many, very
many young gentlemen of the first families in the country, have
offered their services ; and all have received one answer to the
above effect. Indeed, in the choice of my aids, a variety of con-
siderations must combine — political, geographical, &c.-, as well as
experience.

What is become of Walker? Colonel Heth has offered,
and stands well in my estimation without a promise. No
foreigner will be admitted as a member of my family, while I
retain my present ideas ; nor do I think they ought to be in any
situation where they can come at secrets and betray a trust.

Write me as often as you can conveniently ; and believe me
to be, what I really am,

Your sincere and affectionate friend,

George Washington.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

(private.)

New-York, August 19, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I. write you herewith an official letter. Your private one of
the 14th is before me. I regret that you have been unwell, and
rejoice that you are better.

jEt.41.J correspondence. 339

The affair of Gen. Knox perplexes me. I wish him to serve.
I am pained to occasion to him pain, for I have truly a warm
side for him, and a high value for his merits; but my judgment
tells me, and all I consult confirms it, that I cannot reasonably
postpone myself in a case in which a preference so important to
the public in its present and future consequences, has been given
me. In denominating the preference important, I do not intend
to judge whether it will be well or ill founded ; in either case, its
tendency is so important, I am willing to confer, to adjust ami-
cably, with the advice of mutual friends. But how can I aban-
don my pretension ?

At foot, my dear sir, I transmit you the draft of such a reply
as it seems to me proper for you to make to General Knox. It
may also be well for you, in a private letter, to advise him to ac-
cept, with a reservation of his claim ad referendum, upon the
ground of the rule he quotes, and with the understanding that it
will not be understood to engage him to continue, if the matter
be not finally settled according to his claim.

Adieu, my dear Sir.

Yours very truly, &c.

Draft above referred to.

Sir:

An answer to your letter of the 5th inst. has been delayed by some degree of
ill health on my part.

The general disposition it marks, accords well with the patriotic sentiments
you have so constantly manifested. It is extremely regretted that any circum-
stance should induce you to hesitate about the acceptance of an appointment in
whicli it is not to be doubted your services would be eminently useful.

The paragraph of my former letter which you quote, explains to you my con-
ception of the relative rank of the generals in question, as resulting from the order
of the nominations and appointments This conception, however, cannot affect
the claim of either, if there be any subsisting, binding rule in our military code,
which will arrange the priority of rank between officers nominated on the same
day, according to their relative stations in the late army. This will naturally be
the subject of some future decision, in some proper mode. It is not understood
that tnere has been any formal repeal of the rule to which you allude.

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

It remains, then, for yon to determine whether you will or not accept the
appointment, with the reservation of a claim to the benefit of that rule.
With great consideration and esteem,

I have the honor to remain, Sir,

Your very obedient servant.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

Nkw-York, August .19, 1798.

Sir:

An absence from the city, upon some urgent avocations, pre-
vented my receiving till yesterday your letters of the 10th and
11th instant.

I observe the suggestion which you have made to the Presi-
dent towards calling General Knox and myself into immediate
service. If he shall approve, I stand ready to execute, in the
best manner I shall be able, whatever business may be confided
to me ; but I must earnestly hope that it will not be attended
with the necessity of an immediate change of residence. The
nature of my arrangements would render this absolutely ruinous
to me, and I trust I shall not be reduced to such an alternative,
unless events portending public danger shall ripen faster than,
according to present appearances, they are likely to do. I do
not object to a frequent attendance at the seat of government, for
this can be reconciled with my other engagements, till they can
be gradually prepared for a total relinquishment and a new po-
sition. With this, I am satisfied, every desirable end can be ob-
tained, especially when the promptness of communication be-
tween this place and the seat of government is considered. Be
assured that none but very imperious motives could induce this
hesitation on my part. In accepting the appointment, I did not
contemplate as probable a speedy dislocation of residence.

The tenor of General Knox's letter, transmitted by you and
now returned, occasions to me no small regret and embarrass-
ment. My esteem and friendship for that gentleman would lead

JEt. 41.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 341

me far, but there is a very great difficulty in waiving a station to
which, I am well convinced, I have been called no less by the
public voice of this country than by the acts of the Commander-
in-Chief and of the President and Senate. The intention as to
the relative grades of the officers appointed is presumed to be un-
equivocal. It is believed that the rule to which General Knox
refers can have no application to the case of the formation of a
new army at a new epoch,, embracing officers not previously in
actual service.

It was not a permanent provision of law, but a regulation
adapted to the peculiar circumstances of the late army, and gov-
erning, as far as I recollect, only in the cases of promotions from
lower subsisting grades to higher ones. At the same time, it is
very delicate for me to give an opinion in a matter in which I
am so personally interested.

I send you back the list of applications which you transmitted
to me, with remarks, and with the addition of names. It has
been in my power to do little as to candidates in any State but
New- York. I have supposed that you have had recourse to bet-
ter sources of information as to others.

With great respect and esteem,

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your verv obedient servant, &c.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, August 20tli; 17

My Dear Sir:

A necessary absence from this city prevented the receipt of
your letter of the 9th instant, till yesterday.

It is very grateful to me to discover in each succeeding oc-
currence a new mark of your friendship towards me. Time will
evince that it makes the impression it ought on my mind.

The effect which the course of the late military appointments

342 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

has produced in General Knox, though not very unexpected, is
very painful to me. I have a respectful sense of his pretensions
as an officer, and I have a warm personal regard for him. My
embarrassment is not inconsiderable between these sentiments,
and what I owe to a reasonable conduct on my own part, both in
respect to myself and to the public. It is a fact, that a number
of the most influential men in our affairs would think that in
waiving the preference given to me I acted a weak part, in a
personal view, and an unwarrantable one, in a public view ;
and General Knox is much mistaken if he does not believe that
this sentiment would emphatically prevail in that region to
which he supposes his character most interesting. I mean New
England.

Yet, my dear sir, I can never consent to see you seriously
compromitted or embarrassed. I shall cheerfully place myself in
your disposal, and facilitate any arrangement you may think for
the general good. It does not, however, seem necessary to pre-
cipitate any thing. It DQiy be well to see first what part Gen.
Pinckney will act when he arrives.

The Secretary at War has sent me a copy of General Knox's
letter to him on the subject of his appointment. It does not ab-
solutely decline, but implies the intention to do it, unless a rule
of the late army, giving, in cases of promotion on the same day,
priority according to the former relative rank, is understood to
govern. I have addressed a reply of which a copy is inclosed.

The commissions have issued, so that no alteration can now
be made as between Generals Knox and Pinckney, if there were
not the serious difficulties in the way which you seem to have
anticipated.

The Secretary of War has proposed to the President a-.-
change of the plan announced in the first instance — which may
bring into immediate activity the Inspector-General and Gen.
Knox. In this case you may depend on the best efforts in my
power, with a peculiar attention to the objects you mention, and
you shall be carefully and fully advised of whatever it interests
you to know.

Col. Walker resides at present in the western part of this

^Et. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 343

State. He is occupied in some important agencies for persons
abroad, which renders it doubtful whether he would now accept
military employ ment. He has been written to, and will be pro-
posed for the command of a regiment.

Heth is, in many respects, very desirable, in the capacity you
mention. But you are aware, I presume, of the impracticability
of his temper.

With the most respectful and affectionate attachment, I have
the honor to remain, &c.

The papers sent by you are now returned.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

(confidential.)

Trenton, August 21st, 1798.

Dear Sir :

Not to miss the mail, I wrote you one line to-day, and in-
closed a letter from, I suppose, General Miranda. If its contents
give rise to any questions which it will be prudent for you to
ask, and for me to answer by the mail, it may be done ; other-
wise, the information may be suspended till we meet. Just
before I left Philadelphia, I received a letter from General Knox,
in answer to one I had written at the request of Captain Mitchell,
of the artillery, who wished to be one of his aids-de-camp.
Mitchell, you will have observed, is since dead. But my object
in noticing this matter is to inform you that General Knox
manifests pretty strongly his dissatisfaction at your being ap-
pointed in a manner to precede him in the military line. I con-
clude he will not serve. Although I should have been well
pleased with his accepting his commission, I do not by any
means deem his loss irreparable. Although by the delay of the
nominations one day, I received your letter, expressing your
willingness to serve under Knox, yet I concealed it, in order

344 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt.41.

that the arrangement of nominations of major-generals, which I
had seen as formed by General Washington, and which I saw
would govern, might leave you where you ought to be. In the
first place, in General Washington's answer to my letter, of
which I sent you some extracts, there is not, as I recollect, the
most distant idea of General Knox:s making any difficulty in
acting subordinately to you. His apprehensions arose wholly
on General Pinckney's account. I think it right to add, that
from the first moment that a commander-in-chief was thought of,
no name was mentioned but yours; for, until the nomination
was actually made, I had no suspicion that General Washington
would ever again enter the field of war. I know, also, that not
only all your friends, but your political enemies, have the highest
respect for your abilities; while the latter, the political enemies
also of General Knox, estimate his talents by a very moderate
scale, and some persons have, in my hearing, called him a weak
man. I think him neither iveah nor great, but with pretty good
abilities, possessing an imposing manner that impresses an idea
of mental faculties beyond what reallj exist. I am certain that
if he had been second to General Washington, and of course
likely to command in chief, great dissatisfaction would have
been excited. I much doubt, even, whether the nomination
would have been confirmed by the Senate. I write this letter in
the confidence of friendship for the public good, which I con-
ceive to be involved in your holding your present superior sta-
tion. I have always supposed you and General Knox to be
cordial friends. I wish you to continue such. I persuade my-
self he is too good a patriot to suffer the present disappointment
to actuate him to any improper conduct, and that he will at last
positively acquiesce. I think he will gainno honor by declining
to serve under you. I rather think his refusal will detract from
the reputation he now possesses. Mr. Wolcott showed me (as you
requested) your letter to him, suggesting the expediency of
calling you and General Knox into immediate service, to aid the
arrangements and operations of the department of war. I was
so well pleased with the idea, and thought it so important, or
rather so essential to the formation of an army in time to afford

tEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 345

some security to our country, that I told Mr. "Wolcott I would
write to the President and urge the measure. Mr. Wolcott
approved ; I have yet no answer. The Secretary of War was at
the time indisposed ; but inquiring of his chief clerk, I found that
he also had written for the same purpose. It is since this that I
received General Knox's letter before mentioned, and that gave
rise to a new thought, — that as he manifestly intended to decline
accepting his commission, and the President would be on the
spot to converse with him, the taking charge of the war depart-
ment again might be proposed to him ; for the President, I have
seen, has been informed of a very general dissatisfaction in its
present direction. After the appointments of general officers
were made, but before they were known beyond Philadelphia, I
received a letter from Mr. Jay, expressing the same opinion
respecting you, which I had done to General Washington, and
the same reasons (the nature of the war in which we were to be
engaged) why superior talents should be sought for without
regard to rank in a former war. I therefore made Mr. Jay
acquainted with my conduct in the business.

P. S. August 22ri. Since writing the inclosed, I have turned
to Mr. Jay's letter ; his words are, "I cannot conceal from you
my solicitude that the late Secretary of the Treasury may be
brought forward in a manner corresponding with his talents and
services. It appears to me that his former military station and
character, tak,en in connection with his late important place in
the administration, would justify measuring his rank by his merit
and value." The reason of Mr. Jay's solicitude is thus express-
ed: " We shall probably have very different generals to contend
with from those which Britain sent here last war,/ and we should
have very different ones to oppose them from several of those
who then led our troops." This, you may recollect, is the same
sentiment which I expressed in my letter to General Washing-
ton which I showed you. In a subsequent letter Mr. Jay joined
me in regretting that the terms of the nomination and appoint-
ment left any room to question your right of precedence ; I men-
tioned 'he point to you, but you answered that it had been set-

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

tied in the case of Baron Steuben. No doubt you have seen
some paragraphs in the Columbian Centinel (B. Russell's fulsome
paper), in which it is said that General Knox is next in com-
mand to General Washington. And a letter from the President
to the Secretary of "War (in answer, I suppose, to his for calling
you and Knox into service) expresses that to be his opinion ;
and consequently, " that Pinckney must rank before Hamilton ;"
but that is not the only consequence ; Lee and Hand were on the
same clay named, and approved as major-generals ; and if Knox
and Pinckney precede you, so will the other two, for I cannot
see that their being named for the provisional army can make
any difference when that army shall be raised ; and are you pre-
pared for a station so much in the rear ? God forbid that such
an arrangement should be adopted. But the matter will rest
on " General Washington's opinion and consent," and it is for
this reason principally that I have added this postscript, that
you may take Q1ich steps with the General, as you may think
p*~pcsr, t? £tc you in the station which the essential interests of
our country require ; the station in which I conceive the General
meant to place you, according to the list which he sent by
McHenry to the President, and in conformity with which you,
Pinckney, and Knox, were named. I have just read the Gene-
ral's answer to my letter about you ; he does not hint an idea of
any competition save with Pinckney. I inclose* it for your pe-
rusal, and to be returned. If North declines, the President is
" prepared to appoint another and a better." Js this Harry
Jackson, or Cobb ? Colonel William Heth of Virginia would
joyfully take that office. But the appointment of A W. White
has grievously offended him.

Sincerely adieu,

T. Pickering.

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 347

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, August 22d, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

Your several letters of May 12th, June the 6th and 8th, have
regularly come to hand.

You will be, no doubt, fully instructed of the measures
which have taken place on the part of our government, and you
will have seen in the numerous addresses to the President a con-
firmation of the opinion I gave you respecting the disposition of
the country. From both you will have derived satisfaction,
though you should not think we are yet where we ought now to
be. But console yourself with the assurance that we are pro-
gressing in good. The indications are to my mind conclusive,
that we are approaching fast to as great unanimity as any country
ever experienced, and that our energies will be displayed in pro-
portion to whatever exigencies shall arise.

I have received several letters from General Miranda. I have
written an answer to some of them, which I send you to deliver
or not, according to your estimate of what is passing in the scene
where you are. Should you deem it expedient to suppress my
letter, you may do it, and say as much as you think fit on my
part in the nature of a communication through you.

With regard to the enterprise in question, I wish it much to be
undertaken, but I should be glad that the principal agency was in
the United States, they to furnish the whole land force if neces-
sary. The command in this case would very naturally fall upon
me ; and I hope I should disappoint no favorable anticipations.
The independency of the separate territory under a moderate
government, with the joint guarantee of the co-operating pow-
ers, stipulating equal privileges in commerce, would be the sum
of the results to be accomplished.

Are we yet ready for this undertaking? Not quite. But
we ripen fast, and it may, I think, be rapidly brought to matu-
rity, if an efficient negotiation for the purpose is at once set on

348 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

foot upon this ground. Great Britain cannot alone insure the
accomplishment of the object. I have some time since advised
certain preliminary steps to prepare the way consistently with
national character and justice. I was told they would be pur-
sued, but I am not informed whether they have been or not.

Yours affectionately, &c.

HAMILTON TO MIRANDA.

Nkw-York, August 22d. 1798-

Sir:

I have lately received by duplicates your letter of the 6th of
April, with the postscript of the 9th of June. The gentleman
you mention in it has not made his appearance to me, nor do I
know of his arrival in this country ; so that I can only divine the
object from the limits in your letter.

The sentiments I entertain with regard to that object, have
been long since in your knowledge, but I could personally have
no participation in it, unless patronized by the government of
this country. It was my wish that matters had been ripened for
a co-operation in the course of this fall on the part of this
country.

But this can now scarcely be the case. The winter, however,
may mature the project, and an effectual co-operation by the United
States may take place. In this case I shall be happy, in my
official station, to be an instrument of so good a work.

The plan in my opinion ought to be — a fleet of Great Britain,
an army of the United States, a government for the liberated
territory agreeable to both the co-operators, about which there
will be no difficulty. To arrange the plan a competent authority
from Great Britain to some person here, is the best expedient.
Your presence here will, in this case, be extremely essential.

We are raising an army of about twelve thousand men.

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 349

General "Washington has resumed his station at the head of our
armies. I am appointed second in command.
With esteem and regard,

I remain, dear Sir, &c.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, August 22, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

No one knows better than }rourself, how difficult and op-
pressive is the collection even of taxes very moderate in their
amount, if there be a defective circulation. According to all the
phenomena which fall under my notice, this is our case in the
interior parts of the county.

Again; individual capitalists, and consequently the facility
of direct loans, are not very extensive in the United States. The
banks can only go a certain length, and not be forced. Yet
government will stand in need of large anticipations.

For these and other reasons, which I have thought well of, I
have come to a conclusion, that our Treasury ought to raise up a
circulation of its own. I mean by the issuing of Treasury notes
payable, some on demand, others at different periods, from very
short to pretty considerable, — at first having but little time to
run.

This appears to me an expedient, equally necessary to keep
the circulation full, and to facilitate the anticipations which gov-
ernment will certainly need. By beginning early, the public eye
will be familiarized, and as emergencies press, it will be easy to
enlarge without hazard to credit.

Think well of this suggestion, and do not discard it without
perceiving well a better substitute.

Adieu.

3-r>0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

August 22, 1798.

Dear Sir:

In writing freely as I have done yesterday and to-day in the
inclosed letter to you, disclosing what is contemplated respecting
your military station, far from being apprehensive of justly incur-
ring blame, I consider myself as performing a hazardous duty ;
but I am not conscious that the risk of incurring the displeasure
of any man ever deterred me from doing' what I conceived to be
my duty. My anxiety to see you fixed second in command, has
arisen from the opinion which for twenty years I have enter-
tained of your superior genius and talents combined with integ-
rity. The integrity of your competitors, I trust, is also un-
impeachable. General Pinckney's character I believe to be
eminently pure, and were their other qualifications equal, my soli-
citude would cease. Nay, there would be an evident propriety
in their preceding you.

My interference has not proceeded from any claims you have
on my friendship ; for though we were never, to my knowledge,
for one moment at enmity, our acquaintance was never so inti-
mate as in the proper strict sense of the word to make us friends.
My respect, esteem and attachment have been founded on the
qualities of your head and heart as above suggested ; and all the
return I expected was, the regard due simply to an honest man.
Viewing me as entitled to this character, you will not, nor would
any one who knew as well as you my frank, downright disposi-
tion, ascribe to flattery the sentiments I have expressed of you
in our correspondence. It was impossible to reason the subject
without expressing them. Thus much I have thought proper to
add in justification, and as an apology for the inclosed, and for
any similar sentiments in former letters.

P. S. — I postpone sending General Washington's letter. I
may want it in conversing with my colleagues before the question
of rank shall be referred to the General.

i&r. 41.J CORRESPONDENCE. 351

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.
(private and confidential.)

Trenton, August 23d, 1798.

Dear Sir:

Mr. McHenry lias just handed to Mr. Wolcott and me his
letter to the President on the subject of calling you and Gen-
eral Knox into immediate service, together with General Knox's
letter to him in answer to the one inclosing his commission.
General Knox's letter claiming the first rank, I see has been
transmitted to you ; and I was glad to see you, in your answer to
the Secretary of War, tenacious of the station in which the Com-
mander-in-Chief, the President and Senate, and the public voice
have placed you. I did not know till now, that General Wash-
ington had so explicitly written you respecting your taking rank
of General Knox, whom he loved, although I had formed the same
conclusion from his silence concerning him in his letter to me,
which I now inclose, and which Mr. Wolcott only, of my col-
leagues, has seen. The original letter from General Washington
to you, McHenry now informs us, was by him shown to the Presi-
dent ; notwithstanding which you have seen where you would
have been placed. McHenry said also, that General Washington
made your appointment to be the sine qua non of his accepting the
chief command. The weight of these facts seems to have escaped
the President's recollection, or he would not desire that General
Knox should take rank of you. It is plain that General Knox
has conversed with him, referred to the rule of the former war
to determine the relative rank of officers of the same grade, ap-
pointed on the same day, and the President has thence concluded
Knox is " legally" entitled to the precedency. But, as I yester-
day informed you, the change proposed to gratify General Knox
and the President, is by the latter put on General Washington's
" opinion and consent," and such consent, surely, can never be
given after the General's letter to you, in which, as McHenry
says, he explicitly told you, that he passed by Knox whom he

352 HAMILTON'S WORKS. L<Et. 41.

loved, to give you the priority of rank. Upon the principle men-
tioned by General Knox, Hand must clearly precede you as well
as Knox and Pinckney. Lee, I presume, must follow you, as he
was only a captain of horse when you, as aid to the Commander-
in-Chief, had the rank of lieutenant-colonel. I see in your letter to
McHen/y, you refer to the public voice in your favor — and justly,
as I yesterday mentioned. Yet the President imagines that " the
Jive New England States" would be offended at your preceding
Knox. He is most egregiously mistaken ; it was among New
England members of Congress that I heard you, and you only,
mentioned as the Commander-in-Chief, until General Washington
Avas nominated ; and I dare to say, that if among the New Eng-
land delegates a vote were taken, nine in ten, if not the whole,
would place you before I£nox.

McHenry is to write you to-day on the subject. He is utterly
uninformed of my correspondence with General Washington and
you concerning it. The reference of the matter to General Wash-
ington is suspended. You will consider whether it should not
be made ; for he must decide in your favor. McHenry had
thought of not so referring it, but of taking the course which he
said he would state to you to-day — that is, to propose to General
Knox to accept with a reservation of his claim under the old rule
appealed to by him ; at the same time, McHenry says that rule is
not now. in force, nor ought to govern. Why, then, urge General
Knox's acceptance on that ground ? It would be a delusive pro-
position to General Knox — and if it did not eventually prove so
to him, you would be in a predicament to excite the extreme re-
gret of the great body of your fellow-citizens, who would the
more deeply deplore the arrangement from the very possible fall
or other inevitable loss of the present Commander-in-Chief.

iET. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 353

STODDART TO HAMILTON.

Trknton, August 24th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I should have replied to your letter of the 8th instant, before
this time, had it not mentioned your intention of setting out on
a journey. I am since honored with yours of the 21st.

I have no motive but truth in saying that there is no man,
known to me by character only, to whose wishes I would pay so
much respect as yours. That I think you have such claims on
this country, and this government, that to insure the appoint-
ment of a gentleman to be a lieutenant in our navy, it should be
sufficient to know it would oblige you. Anticipating that objec-
tions might be made in New- York to Capt. Hamilton, on the
score of his being a foreigner, I had turned my attention to the
Southward, for an appointment for him, and I lamented that a
lieutenant had already been mentioned to the President for the
Montezuma, of 20 guns, at Baltimore. Two more vessels are pre-
paring there of 18 9-pounders, and one of larger size at Charles-
ton. To one of these, I suppose, there would be no difficulty in
appointing him first lieutenant. To the South there are but few
qualified men for the navy, of course less competition. The
middle and eastern States are able — at least it seems to be
thought so — to furnish officers for our navy. If, however, you
prefer that Captain Hamilton should be mentioned to the Presi-
dent, for the frigate at New- York, I will, with the utmost plea-
sure, exert my influence for his appointment. In this case, pre-
suming you know Capt. Talbot, it might obviate objections, if he
also would desire it.

I have the honor to be, with real respect and esteem, &c.
354 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

HAMILTON TO MeHENRY.

New York, August 25th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I perceive it would be agreeable to the Commander-in-Chief
to receive frequent communications from you, and particularly to
understand the state of public supplies, that is, the quantities on
hand, and the measures in execution to procure others.

I give you this hint as a guide, and would advise to have a
full statement made out, with notes of what is further doing, and
send it to him.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, August 29th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 3d instant, came seasonably to hand. Bu-
siness and absence from this place have delayed the acknow-
ledgment.

The persons you mention have been correspondently placed
before the Secretary of War.

As to military affairs, they lag not a little — no appointments
of regimental officers yet made. McHenry, as you know, is
loaded beyond his strength. It was an obvious idea to derive
aid from among general officers. But instead of embracing this
recourse, they have all been told that the President hoped they
would think it proper to waive the emoluments of their offices
till called into actual service.

Steps have been taken towards the correction of this obvious
mistake, the success of which now depends on the President,
and on that success the alternative of some or no energy.
Adieu, my dear Sir.

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 355

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, August 29, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your friendly letters of 21st, 22d, and 23d of August, have
been duly received. I feel myself at once much flattered and
truly indebted for the very favorable opinion of me which you
manifest. The good estimation of men of sense and virtue is an
ample consolation for the censure and malice of those of a differ-
ent character; while the expression of your sentiments have all
the value which a well-known sincerity and integrity of dispo-
sition can give. Be assured that I shall be happy to be ranked
by you in the number of your friends. The course of the thing
in a particular quarter does not surprise. Besides the direct in-
fluence which would be exerted, I am aware that the circum-
stances of the late election for President have made some unfor-
tunate impressions.

The Commander-in-Chief, I am authorized by his own com-
munications to me to believe, will not easily relinquish the
original spirit of the primitive arrangement ; but, in the last re-
sort, I shall be inclined to have much deference for his wishes.
It is important he should well understand, what I verily believe
to be an undoubted fact, that New England would rather see
high command in my hands than in those of Gen. Knox.

With very cordial regard and esteem, &c.

HAMILTON TO MCHENRY.

New-York, September 8th, 17S

My Dear Sir :

Yours, dated by mistake August 6th, I received yesterday.
I postponed a reply till to-day, because I wished first to reflect
maturely. My mind is unalterably made up. I shall certainly

356 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

not hold the commission on the plan proposed, and only wait an
official communication to say so.

I return you the inclosures in your letter. You may depend
on my fidelity to your friendly confidence. I shall regret what-
ever of inconvenience may attend you. You doubtless will
take care that you retain in your own power all the evidences of
this transaction.

Adieu.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

Trenton, September 10th, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I received your letter of the 8th this morning ; mine to you,
to which it was an answer, ought to have been dated the 6th
instant.

I do not, I cannot blame you for your determination. Mr.
Pickering, Mr. Wolcott, and Mr. Stoddart, have agreed to make
a respectful representation on the subject to the President.
You will not, of course, hear from me relative to the commands
of the President, till the result is known to me.

Yours affectionately, &c.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, September 17th, 1798.
I am charmed with the military appointments. In the main
they are quite what they should be. Such chiefs ought to give
glory as well as security to their country, and they will do both
if the occasions offer. You see that I relapse into my former
strain. I know not what you and others, whose sentiments I

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 357

respect, may think, but I must unsettle all that is best settled in
my opinions of the character of the present extraordinary crisis,
or I cannot agree with an unimpassioned, phlegmatic, cautious,
inactive, and merely defensive war, even under the highest
toned and most vigorous form of government, is capable of af-
fording a tolerable chance of security against such an adversary
as France.

I do not entirely comprehend the views and proceedings of
Congress, who appear to have done too much, or not enough.
But I have been too long acquainted with the temper and com-
position of that body, not to be able to conjecture the difficulties
that arise from the vanities of some, and the obstinacy of others ;
and which have given the appearance of inconsistency to their
measures.

Congress has adjourned, and it is of the highest importance
that we should form a correct opinion of the course that France
is likely to pursue. It is plain, that discovering our union and
firmness, France instantly decided upon relinquishment of her
demands of apologies and loans, and resolved to recede as far
as should be necessary to regain her standing ; and, if possi-
ble, her influence among our people. But she has had no inten-
tion of doing us justice for the past, nor of performing what she
might be induced to promise in respect to the future. The cor-
respondence between Talleyrand and Gerry, inclusive of other
extemporaneous and subsequent measures of the same charac-
ter, should convince us of the justice of this opinion. Logan,
who, as we hear, was provided with letters from Jefferson and
others, has been presented to Merlin as the envoy of the patri-
otic party in America. He has been closeted with Talleyrand,
and speaks openly of his success with the French government.
Since his arrival at Paris, the American seamen have been re-
leased, who, on the laying of the embargo, were conducted to
prison, and the Directory have ordered the embargo to be raised.
The preamble of this arret merits attention.

29 Thermidor. Le Directoire executif, conside'rant que mal-
gre la manifestation hostile du gouvernement des Etats Unis, qui
avait determine un embargo momentane sur leurs batimens, il

358 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41

doit croire qu'a moins d'etre livre aux passions du cabinet
Britanique, ce gouvernement fidele aux interets de ia Nation
Americaine, prendra des mesures analogues aux dispositions
pacifiques de la republique Francaise des qu'il en recevra la
confirmation, et voulant suivre les habitudes amicales et fra-
ernelles de la France, envers un peuple dont elle a defendu la
liberty, arrete ce qui suit, &c. &c." These proceedings should be
compared with the treatment and language received by our en-
voys, and we shall from hence be able perhaps to fathom the
views, and to discover the meaning of France. It is analogous
to what has been done in other countries. Difficulties and em-
barrassments, complained of by the proper agents of such coun-
tries have been aggravated and increased, and in order to divide
the people from their government, promises of redress and satis-
faction have been given to the popular agents of such countries
which had been refused to the envoys of their governments.

But we know nothing certain of the views of France since it
has been known at Paris that our treaties are dissolved. The
measures above referred to were of antecedent date. I still
think they will not declare war, but endeavor to gain their ob-
ject by humiliation and intrigue.

The war is on the eve of recommencing between France and
Austria. Prussia will remain neuter ; Germany will suffer her-
self to be incorporated with France in preference to being again
at war with her. Naples will be engaged, aud Russia, accord-
ing to appearances, will also become active.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Trenton, Sept. 19, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I am acqainted with the state of a delicate question in which
you personally, but the government and country are more

Mt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 359

interested. Measures have been taken to bring all right, if the
thing be at all practicable. The present embarrassment might,
I am persuaded, have been entirely avoided, and I do not despair
of having it corrected. As a friend to your fame, and the in-
terests of the country, I request you to say nothing, and do
nothing, until you hear from me, which will be ten days or a
fortnight hence.

Your advice respecting the use of credit has been, and will
continue to be, regarded. The finances will not fail before the
other departments, but the government will lose all confidence,
and will deserve none, if things are not managed with some por-
tion of good sense. There is now no object, system, or design ;
all is hurry, passion, and imbecility.

Yours.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, September 23, 1798.

You will have no war ! France will propose to renew the
negotiation upon the basis laid down in the President's instruc-
tions to the envoys — at least, so I conjecture.

If the negotiation is recommenced, the most obvious precau-
tion suggests the expediency of confiding it to hands above all
suspicion.

We see that we have nothing to fear from the arms of France ;
all her skill and energy, and ■ resentment, will nevertheless be
employed to attain her ends.

A treaty, liberal in terms and stipulations, though neither
should be performed nor observed, would gain time, and go a
great way to restore her injured credit

The election of President would return before the efficacy
and sincerity of the new stipulations and engagements would be
experimentally ascertained. To give them any chance of success,
they must be liberal to the utmost bounds of our expectations.

?>60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 41.

Bonaparte reached Grand Cairo on the 22d July, but we are
quite ignorant whether he was opposed by the Beys. It does
not yet appear whether he will remain some time in Egypt, in
order to consolidate his conquest and authority over that coun-
try, or proceed immediately by the Red Sea for India. We are
without details or confirmation of the victory which the French
papers of the 15th and 16th instant state to have been gained
over the French fleet by Nelson. The news is on the whole
highly probable, and the victory has, according to these reports,
been very decisive and glorious. The war is about to re-
commence.

WASHINGTON TO ADAMS.

Extract of a letter from General Washington to the President of the United States,
dated Mount Vernon, 25th of September, 1798.

. It is an invidious task, at all times, to draw comparisons, and I shall avoid it as
much as possible ; but I have no hesitation in declaring, that if the public is to be
deprived of the service of Colonel Hamilton in the military line, that the post he
was destined to fill will not be easily supplied ; and that this is the sentiment of
the public, I think I can venture to pronounce. Although Colonel Hamilton has
never acted in the capacity of a general officer, yet his opportunities, as the prin-
cipal and most confidential aid of the commander-in-chief, afforded him the means
of viewing every thing on a larger scale than those who had only divisions and
brigades to attend to — who knew nothing of the correspondencies of the com-
mander-in-chief, or of the various orders to, or transactions with, the general staff
of the army. These advantages, and his having served with usefulness in the old
Congress, in the general Convention, and having filled one of the most important
departments of government with acknowledged abilities and integrity, has placed
him on high ground, and made him a conspicuous character in the United States,
and even in Europe. To these, as matters of no small consideration, may be
added, that as a lucrative practice of his profession, his most certain depend-
ence, the inducement lo relinquish it, must, in some degree, be commensurate.

By some he is considered as an ambitious man, and, therefore, a dangerous
one. That he is ambitious, I shall readily grant ; but it is of that laudable kind
which prompts a man to excel in whatever he takes in hand. He is enterprising,

jEt. 41.] correspondence. 361

quick in his perceptions, and his judgment intuitively great ; qualities essential
to a great military character ; and, therefore, I repeat, that his loss will be ir-
reparable.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, September 30, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your obliging favor of the 24th instant, has duly come to
hand. I see in it a new proof of sentiments towards me which
are truly gratifying. But permit me to add my request to the
suggestions of your own prudence, that no personal considera-
tions for me may induce more on your part than on mature
reflection you may think due to public motives. It is extremely
foreign to my wish to create to you the least embarrassment,,
especially in times like the present, when it is more than ever
necessary that the interests of the whole should be paramounily
consulted.

I shall strictly comply with the recommendation in the close
of your letter, remaining always

Your very respectful and affectionate servant.

WASHINGTON TO PICKERING.

(confidential.)

Mount Vernon, 1st October, 1798.

Dear Sir :

This letter will contain very little more than an acknowledgment of the
receipts of your letters of the 13th and 18th of last month, which came safe to
hand. The letter written by Mr. Wolcott to the President of the United States
and the representation made by me to him, so soon as I received official informa-
tion of the change intended by him, in the relative rank of the major-generals,
and of his departure in almost every other instance from what I considered a

362 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

solemn compact : and the only terms on which I would, by an acceptance of the
commission, hazard every thing dear and valuable to me, will soon b"ing matters
to a close so far as it respects myself. But until the final result of them is known,
the less there is said on the subject the better.

With great truth and sincerity, lam always

Your sincere and obedient servant,

George Washington.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, October 2, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

Mr. R. delivered me your letter of tlie 31st of July. The
opinion in that and other of your letters concerning a very
important point, has been acted upon by me from the very
moment that it became unequivocal that we must have a decisive
rupture with France. In some things my efforts succeeded, in
others they were disappointed : — in others I have had promises
of conformity to lay the foundation of future proceeding ; the
performance and effect of which promises are not certainly known
to me. The effect, indeed, cannot yet be known.

The public mind of this country continues to progress in the
right direction. That must influence favorably the present Con-
gress at the ensuing session. The next will be in all appearance
intrinsically better.

Of the executive I need say little ; you know its excellent dis-
positions, its general character, and the composition of its parts.
You know also how widely different the business of government
is from the speculation of it, and the energy of the imagination
dealing in general propositions from that of execution in detail.

There are causes from which delay and feebleness are expe-
rienced. But difficulty will be surmounted, and I anticipate with
you that this country will ere long assume an attitude correspond-
ent with its great destinies — majestic, efficient, and operative of
great things. A noble career lies before it.

Why does not Gouverneur Morris come home ? His talents

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 363

are wanted. Men like him do not superabound. Indeed I wish
that you were here rather than where you are, though I think
your position an important one at the present juncture. But we
want to infuse more abilities into the management of our in-
ternal affairs.

Governor Jay is well. He and all your friends continue to
take a lively interest in all that concerns you.

Adieu. Yours affectionately.

HAMILTON TO THE COUNT LATOUR DUPIN GOUVION.

New-York, October 3d, 1798.

I had yesterday, my dear sir, the pleasure of receiving your
letter of the 15th of July, accompanied by two others, one for
Messrs. Le Eoy and Bayard, the other for Mr. Olive, which will
be sent to them in the country, where they now continue, in con-
sequence of the sickness in this city. The letters which you
mention to have before written, have also been received. To
mine I replied shortly after, nor can I imagine how it has hap-
pened that you have received no answer from either of the
parties.

On the subject of the sale of your farm, Mr. Bayard and my-
self had a conference, and we agreed that a sale at this time
was inexpedient, as it could not be hoped that the farm would
bring near its value, owing to the embarrassments in pecuniary
operations produced by the prospect of war. I shall, however, now
advise that an experiment be made. The offers received, if any,
will determine whether a sale can take place without an impru-
dent sacrifice for you, and the result can be regulated accord-
ingly.

Be assured, my dear sir, that I shall be happy to be useful to
you in this or any other matter. In doing so, I shall ecpaally
gratify the esteem and friendship with which you have inspired
me for yourself, and that lively and affecting interest in whatever

364 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

concerns Madame de Gouvion, which cannot but be felt by all
who have had an opportunity to know her value.

If it shall conduce to her and your happiness to return to this
country, it will certainly add to ours ; and if you will, beforehand,
apprise me of your resolution, when taken, and your general
plan, you will find me zealous to co-operate in giving it effect.

I would invite you to return with the more confidence, from
the assurance in the stability of affairs in this country, which is
derived from the late happy course of the public mind. An ex-
traordinary union among the people in the support of their own
government, and in resistance to all foreign encroachments, leaves
nothing to be feared for our future security and prosperity. The
most reasonable ideas in every respect prevail.

Accept, whenever you shall come, under the roof of Mrs.
Hamilton and myself, an asylum where you may be perfectly at
home, until you shall have completed your arrangements for
your future establishment. She joins me in cordial remembrance
to Madame de Gouvion and yourself.

Believe me always very truly, dear Sir, &c.

ADAMS TO WASHINGTON.

Quincy, October 9th, 1798.

Sir:

I received yesterday the letter you did me the honor to write
me on the 28th September.

You request to be informed whether my determination to re-
verse the order of the three Major-Generals is final, and whether
I mean to appoint another Adjutant-General without your con-
currence. I presume that before this day you have received in-
formation from the Secretary at War, that I some time ago
signed the three commissions, and dated them on the same day,
in hopes, similar to yours, that an amicable adjustment or acqui-
escence might take place among themselves ; but if these hopes

At. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 365

should be disappointed, and controversies should arise, they will
of course be submitted to you as Commander-in-Chief, and if,
after all, any one should be so obstinate as to appeal to me from
the judgment of the Commander-in-Chief, I was determined to
confirm that judgment; because, whatever construction may be
put upon the resolutions of the ancient Congress which have
been applied to this case, and whether they are at all applicable
to it or not, there is no doubt to be made, that by the present
Constitution of the United States the President has authority to
determine the rank of officers.

I have been for some time prepared in my own mindt to
nominate Mr. Dayton to be Adjutant-General in case of the re-
fusal of Mr. North. Several others have occurred and been sug-
gested to me, but none who in point of science or literature,
political and military merit or energy of character, appear to be
equal to him. I have no exclusive attachment to him or any
other. If you have any other in contemplation, I pray you to
mention him to the Secretary of War, who may fill up his com-
mission immediately, in case Mr. North declines.

I hope your own health and that of Mrs. Washington are
perfect. Mine is very indifferent, and Mrs. Adams's extremely
low ; confined to the bed of sickness for two months, her destiny
is still very precarious, and mine in consequence of it.

With great respect, I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

John Adams.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Trenton, October 10th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

At the close of the last week, or on Monday of this, a letter
was received by the Secretary of War from the President, cover-
ing the commissions of the Major-Generals, dated on one day.

3()6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

This circumstance, taken in connection with others which pre-
ceded, fully justify an opinion, that the rank may be considered
as settled in the order in which the appointments were made.
Of course that you are established in the rank of first Major-
General.

I supposed till yesterday that the commissions had been trans,
mitted by Mr. McHenry, with an official letter, settling the grade-
I find, however, that our friend McHenry still hesitates ; I will,
however, prevail on him to do his duty if I can. In the mean
time, permit me to say to you with confidence, that the affair
which has caused so much doubt, delay, and perplexity, ought
not, in justice, to be attributed entirely to the President. I will
admit that he has been, in my opinion, greatly mistaken. The
affair was, however, unfortunately managed, and General Wash-
ington and the President have not been understood by each other.

The question of rank being settled, I sincerely hope that Gen-
eral Knox will decline service. His pecuniary affairs are, I be-
lieve, so embarrassed, that there is no prospect of his preserving
his independence, and I much fear, that the fortune of modern
speculators (some loss of character) awaits him.

As a friend to your fame and the public interest, I cannot
omit to request, that no conversation will take place respecting
the question of rank. Even your personal feelings will be much
alleviated by such an explanation as I will give you when we
have the fortune to meet.

In the next place let me request, that as little may be done as
possible relative to the organization of the army before there can
be a deliberate consultation upon the state of our affairs. Depend
upon it, that the arrangements of the "War Department are all de-
fective, and that nothing will succeed without a thorough reform.
Besides, do not countenance the plan for makmg appointments
in the great sections of our country, on the recommendations of
individual officers. Though you may feel confidence in your
own judgment, yet it will be well to remember that the same
power will be exercised by others who may not be equally well
informed. If a few more mistakes are made, the service will be
irretrievably ruined.

Mt.4\.] CORRESPONDENCE. 367

If I can do it without danger* I will call on you, as I go on
to Connecticut at the close of this month, when I will explain, &c.

WASHINGTON TO

Mount Vernon, 15th October, 1798.

Dear Sir :

The information contained in your letter of the 3d instant
was highly grateful to me. Such communications are not only
satisfactory to me, but are really useful ; for while I hold myself
in readiness to obey the call of my country, it is expedient that I
should have more authentic information than newspaper incon-
sistencies, of the approaching or receding storm, that I may reg-
ulate my private concerns accordingly. So far then, as you can
give this, with propriety, would be received with thankfulness ;
and if under the seal of confidence, will be locked up in my own
breast. It is pleasing to hear, that we had so few ships in
France when the Directory thereof were pleased to lay an em-
bargo thereon. I wish, on many accounts, that General Finck-
ney was as safely landed in his own country as I hear Mr. Gerry
is, after his terrible fright. I hope so soon as he is relieved from
the panic with which he was struck, and which must have con-
tinued whilst he remained on the watery element, he will come
forward in stronger language than his last letter to Mr. Talley-
rand contains, and with such explanations as his own character
requires, and his country has a right to demand. We have
nothing new in this quarter ; an excessive drought, which still
prevails, has been hurtful to our crops, and presses sorely upon
the winter grain and grass seeds which have been sown this
autumn. Maryland, instead of acquiring strength in her federal
representation, by the last election, has lost ground. What will
be the result of the elections in this State (in March next) is
more, I believe, than any one can foretell at present. No stone

* The prevalence of an epidemic fever.

368 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 41.

is left unturned, that can affect the federal interest by the demo-
crats.

With great esteem and regard, I am, dear Sir,
Your obedient humble servant,

George Washington.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, October 20, 1798,

My Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 22d August, with the in-
closure that has been delivered as directed. On that subject
things are here as we could desire. There will be precisely such
a co-operation as we wish the moment we are ready. The Sec-
retary of State will show you my communication on this subject.
Though I have not a word from him respecting it, your outline
corresponds with what has been suggested by me, and approved
by this government. Fortunately some months past I obtained
a fac simile of the latest map of the country. It has been now
two months in the hands of an engraver, who has engaged to de-
liver the copies in January. This government has considerable
information respecting the interior, as well as concerning the
condition and dispositions of the inhabitants, though I apprehend
it is not of a recent date. What we know is favorable ; but if
we are to be betrayed by France, the glorious opportunity will
be lost. I am gratified on receiving your opinion of the good
condition of our public affairs, but I do not feel confident that
we are as safe as you appear to think we are. It is fraud, not
force, that I fear. A Paris paper of the 8th instant, which is the
latest that takes any notice of the United States, says : Les
dernieres lettres de Bourdeaux assurent qu'il y est arrive' un
courrier extraordinaire porteur d'ordres pour remettre l'embargo
sur les navires Americaines. Yoila done la guerre inevitable
avec ce peuple, du moins toutes nos correspondances coinci-
dent avec ce bruit.

/ET.41.J . CORRESPONDENCE. 369

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, 21st October, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

The last mail to Alexandria, brought me a letter from the
President of the United States, in which I am informed, that
he had signed and given the commissions to yourself, Generals
Pinckney and Knox, the same date, in hopes that an amicable
adjustment or acquiescence might take place among you. But
if these hopes should be disappointed, and controversies should
arise, they will of course be submitted to me, as Commander-in-
Chief, and if, after all, any one should be so obstinate as to ap-
peal to him from the judgment of the Commander-in-Chief, he
was determined to confirm that judgment.

General Knox is fully acquainted with my sentiments on this
subject; and I hope no fresh difficulties will arise with General
Pinckney. Let me entreat you, therefore, to give, without any
delay, your full aid to the Secretary of War.

At present I will only add, that I am always and affection-
ately yours,

Geo. Washington.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 24th October, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I subjoin for your information a letter of the 17th instant,
which I received this morning from the President of the United
States, in answer to mine of the 26th ult, by which he consents
to authorize you to concert with me the plan of laying out the
money in question to the best advantage, and to appoint you to
superintend the execution of it.

Will it not be proper immediately to form an accurate sur-
F 24

370 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

vey of such parts of the shores and waters of the port, as
from their situation or other circumstances it may be desirable
to fortify? Col. Burr informs me that this has already been par-
tially done by Mr. Coles ; and I submit to your consideration,
whether it would not be advisable to confer with them respect-
ing, and perhaps obtain their aid in executing, the measures pro-
per to be taken to perfect that necessary work.

That being done, I perceive the next object of inquiry will
be, the manner in which the port is capable of being the most
effectually fortified. The result, I think, should then be laid be-
fore the President, through the Secretary of War; and our
future operations will necessarily depend greatty on what he
may direct to be communicated to us on the subject. I wish all
this may be done and ascertained before the next session of our
legislature ; that my communications to them may be full and
early. The expenses incident to the orders which you may give
for these purposes will, of course, be paid ; for it gives me pleas-
ure now to consider you as being perfectly authorized to superin-
tend the fortifications contemplated by the act.

I purpose to be in town next month, and am with great
esteem and regard, &c.

HAMILTON TO ADAMS.

New-York, October 29th, 1798.

Sir:

I shall with pleasure obey the command contained in your
letter of the 17th instant, and shall accordingly inform the Gov-
ernor that I am ready to proceed in the execution of the
measure.

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 371

A. HAMILTON TO HAMILTON.

Edinbi rgh, 29th Oct., 1798.

My Dear Cousin:

I received a few days ago a letter from my brother Robert,
overflowing with the warmest sensibility of the many important
obligations for which he is indebted to both you and Mrs. Hamil-
ton. Since you take a pleasure in conferring happiness, it will no
doubt afford you satisfaction to learn the joy which your friendly
reception and endeavor to effect my brother's appointment into
the American navy has communicated to his family in this coun-
try. The result of your application for the first-lieutenancy of
one of the new frigates was still uncertain when he wrote ; but,
without anticipating the event, I may truly assure you that the
endeavor has impressed the most indelible gratitude on our
minds, and that we view with sensations of no common kind the
excellent portrait which ornaments our chimney-piece. By the
way, father has been informed by an American gentleman Avho
visited Edinburgh lately, that it is a striking though not a flat-
tering likeness of the original. In addition to the pleasure I re-
ceived from the fair prospect of a permanent provision for my
brother, I was not a little pleased that it removed him from the
mercantile line into one for which he is much better qualified.
A jjerfect knowledge of seamanship, and the routine of the naval
duty, he has acquired both from long and various experience,
and from the natural bent of his disposition, which early pointed
to the sea. To amass a fortune by traffic requires talents of a
different kind. "Without affecting to undervalue these talents, it
may be granted that eminent success in the mercantile line fre-
quently depends on artful schemes and devices, which certainly
confer no claim to respect, however necessary to success; and
with these poor Robert can boast but little acquaintance. In the
navy I consider him as in his element. Courage, attention and
naval skill constitute the excellence of a sea officer; and of these
qualities (unless my partiality deceive me) he is eminently pos-
sessed. With these impressions, you will conceive of what im-

372 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

portance his admission into the American navy as first lieutenant
appears to me. To a mind like yours the pleasure of doing good
is, I am sensible, a sufficient impulse ; yet, as my brother resides
under your roof, I am willing to hope that the unaffected sim-
plicity, candor and urbanity of his manner will in time produce
a still more cogent motive in personal friendship. I hope you
will forgive my talking in this manner of my own brother, yet I
must add (even at the risk of having Mr. Shandy's oddities im-
puted to myself) that, excepting in the want of professional
pedantry, Sterne's character of Uncle Toby seems to me more ap-
plicable to my brother than to any I have ever conversed with.

In reply to your account of my acquaintance, Mr. Thomas
Law, I am almost tempted to exclaim in the words of a states-
man, to whom a manuscript plan of the famous projector Law
had been submitted for his consideration, Oh la ! Oh la ! I
am seriously concerned, however, to learn the embarrassed state
of his affairs ; though what could induce a man of his fortune to
embark in such extensive speculations is not easily imagined.
Your letter affords us some hope, though but a distant one, of
seeing some of our young cousins in this country ; wherever they
are they will be followed by our kindest wishes for their pros-
perity.

I do not pretend to transmit you information on political sub-
jects, yet they occupy at present so considerable a portion of the
thoughts and conversation of the world, that they are not easily
avoided. I anticipate the pleasure our late glorious victories
must have communicated to the true friends of the present Ame-
rican Constitution. The destruction nearly total of the Toulon
and Brest squadron, the former destined for Egypt, and the latter
for Ireland, must have given the death-wound to the French
navy. The rebellion, too, which lately appeared so formidable
in Ireland, utterly extinguished, and only revived occasionally in
predatory attacks on the lives and properties of individuals, will
enable the ministry to open the parliament with unusual eclat.
The party of opposition has lately fallen into considerable dis-
credit from their conduct at the trial of O'Connor, for whose
principles they vouched in the most unqualified manner. Yetr

Mr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 373

notwithstanding these high attestations, O'Connor proves to be a
traitor, actually conspiring to introduce a foreign enemy into his
native country, at the very time in which our patriots were so
loud in his praises. If it be admitted that they were unacquainted
with O'Connor's insidious designs, the vehemence of the protes-
tations must show how open they are to deception, and argues
little in favor of their understandings. Whether Buonaparte has
reached his ultimate destination, or intends to prosecute his
expedition to India, must soon appear ; as the change of mon-
soon, which happens in the month of September, will prevent
his traversing the Indian Ocean, unless he has previously effected
his passage. There are no authentic accounts of his having left
Cairo. I beg to offer my best compliments to Mrs. Hamilton,
and that you will ever believe me, my dear cousin,

Faithfully yours,

A. Hamilton.

PINCKNEY TO MCHENRY.

Trenton, October 31, 1793.

Dear Sir :

Agreeably to your desire expressed in your favor of yesterday, I shall en-
deavor to be with you either at this place or Philadelphia, on the tenth of next
month. I am sorry that General Knox has declined his appointment. A few
hours after the ship in which I came, had cast anchor in the North River, it was
intimated to me, that it had been doubted whether T would accept my appointment,
as General Hamilton, who was of inferior rank to me in the last war, was ranked
before me in the new arrangement. I declared then, and still declare, it was with
the greatest pleasure I saw his name at the head of the list of the major-generals,
and applauded the discrimination which had placed him there. I knew that
his talents in war were great ; that he had a genius capable of forming an exten-
sive military plan, and a spiiit courageous and enterprising equal to the execution
of it I therefore, without any hesitation, immediately sent him word by Major
Rutledge, that I rejoiced at his appointment, and would with pleasure serve under
him.

It was not until about ten days ago, that I was informed by my friend, Major
Haskell, that General Knox was dissatisfied, that General Hamilton and myself
were placed before him. As I considered General Knox to be a very valuable

374 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

officer, though I do not estimate ln> talents in a degree equal to those of General
Hamilton, I told the Major that rather than the feelings of General Knox should
be hurt, at my being ranked before him, he might take my place in the arrange-
ment ; and I desired him, when he wrote to the General, to intimate this to him.
General Knox's absolute refusal to serve, because I am phced before him, would
make the same offer from me now, improper. I do not, therefore, renew it-
But if the authority which appointed me to the rank of second major-general in
the army, will review the arrangement, and place General Knox before me, I will
neither quit the service, nor be dissatisfied.

I have the honor to be with great respect and regard,
Your most obedient humble servant,

Charles Cotesworth Pinckney.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, 18th December, 1798.

My Dear Sir :

I have received this moment your two letters of the 16th and
17th instant, and have read them over cursorily, though not
without fully understanding them.

I intend that the recruiting service be wholly confided to
you, and shall send you the printed instructions and a copy of
the English system on which they are founded. It cannot, how-
ever, be entered upon immediately, or until our clothing is in
more forwardness.

It is certain that you must have been a loser in the way you
mention, by accepting the office you now hold, and as certain
that justice requires that none of the pay or emoluments annexed
to it should be refused. I shall, as early as possible, obtain a
proper decision.

I am preparing a report to the President, who has seen the
two letters and all other papers and letters communicated to me
by General Washington. I shall acid some matters to the sub-
jects for congressional provisions which they embrace, when it
will be transferred to Congress by message.

The idea of two companies of hussars is judicious.
Yours affectionately.

JEix. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 3 7 5

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, Nov. 9, 1798.

Dear Sir:

The same uncertainty continues respecting the recommence-
ment of the war. Both Austria and Prussia are bolder than
before the late naval success of this country ; but the conduct of
the Emperor is rather calculated to show that he may be pur-
chased by further acquisitions in Italy. Naples will not decline
a war. Her existence perhaps depends upon her provoking it.

The casus foederis with Austria is a defensive war; but the
Emperor has said he should not be critical on that head. The
news of the capitulation of Buonaparte, and the destruction of the
transports at Alexandria, is not confirmed, though they are
events which must take place. The expeditions against Ireland
are annihilated. Of the nine ships that sailed from Brest, seven,
including the Hoche, are in the English ports ; the two frigates
that escaped from the Texel have both been taken ; and of three
that sailed from Eochefort, and appeared off Ireland soon after
the defeat of the Brest squadron, two are said to be taken.

The Dutch frigates were probably bound to Demerara,
though the soldiers were told they were to go to Ireland.

Parliament meets on the 20th. Mr. Pitt will have a good
account to give of the extension of their commerce, and of the
increase of the revenue. The assessed taxes, which have been
shamefully evaded, will be given up, and a tax upon the income
of the nation substituted. There will be great difliculties in the
details, as well as strong prejudices to overcome, but I hear that
the body of merchants in London are to support the plan. The
late naval success has excited a high degree of animation
throughout the nation ; and the government will be generally
and cordially supported in such measures as it shall adopt to
prosecute the war. The funds have got up to 57 per cent.,
which is a great rise, and in a short time. You will see that I
have prevented the sending to you of about fifty Irish state pri-
soners, who were at the head of the rebellion in Ireland, and

376 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 41.

closely connected with the Directory at Paris. Probably our
patriots will think my conduct presumptuous. In the present
posture of our affairs, I could have no hesitation ! We have an
account that the Constellation, Capt. Truxton, has taken a French
frigate on our coast. This news is brought by Capt. Cochrane, of
the Thetis, who will not be permitted to return to the American
station.

Yours very truly, &c.

P. S. The Hamburgh mail, just arrived, informs us that very
great resistance is made to the requisition of 200,000 men in
Belgium ; 12,000 young men are embodied, and the spirit of
revolt extends itself every where. The scene is too near the
army of the Rhine.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, Dec. 19th, 1798.

Dear Sir :

The same uncertainty continues to perplex us concerning the
recommencement of the war. One day we are told that Naples
has really begun, and that Austria is on the way to support her ;
the next, that Naples is kept back by Austria, to whom the
Directory have made the most advantageous offers. It is certain
that France feels the change that has, within the last six months,
taken place in Europe, and is extremely anxious to defeat the
projected coalition. Prussia observes, and seems inclined to
adhere to the same cautious policy that for some time has gov-
erned her administration. Poor Spain is completely under the
influence of the Directory, and, however strange it may seem,
the king, who most cordially hates England, shed tears, and was
inconsolable on the news of Nelson's victory. Portugal is
threatened with a war with Spain, unless she concludes a peace
on the terms of the Directory. There is great discontent in
many of the French departments, but still the levy of the new

JEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 377

requisition proceeds. The insurrection of Brabant extends itself:
but though it will give the Directory some trouble, cannot prove
successful unless the war soon recommences. Mr. Grenville, an
elder brother of the minister, has gone on a special mission to
Berlin. He is said to be very clever, and has heretofore refused
to go into the diplomatic course. Unless favorable circumstances
of success exist, one would scarcely believe that the minister
would just now have employed his brother. The French will
lose all their islands, trade, and influence in the Mediterranean.
Minorca has been taken by the English. Malta must fall. Cor-
sica will probably expel the French, though England will not
again accept of their capricious allegiance. Zante, Cerego, and
Cephalonia, and probably Corfu, have fallen into the hands of
the Turks and Russians.

A report from Constantinople states that Buonaparte has
been assassinated; though probable, it wants confirmation. Mr.
Pitt will be supported in the tax of 10 per cent, on the income
of the nation ; indeed, the people appear firm and resolved to
support the government, and the prosperity of their manufac-
tures and trade enable them to do so. Adieu.

Yours truly, &c.

P. S. I make you my hearty congratulations on the settle-
ment of the question of rank.

OTIS TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, Dec. 21, 1798.

Sir:

I was very solicitous while you were in the city for the in-
dulgence of an interview with you, that would have enabled me
to learn your opinion in relation to such defensive measures as
ought now to be adopted by Congress ; and I called upon you
once with that view; but being then disappointed, and perceiving

3*78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 4l\

afterwards the pressing nature of your immediate avocations, I
chose rather to forego the advantage of your sentiments, than in-
vade the little leisure you appeared able to command. Being
since appointed chairman of a committee to consider the policy
of extending our internal means of defence, the great confidence
which I feel in the correctness of your political opinions, and
your permission on a former occasion to avail myself of them,
induce me to request that I may be honored with your general
ideas upon this subject, if you can without inconvenience devote
an hour to my instruction. In particular, is it advisable to
augment the present permanent army under all circumstances ?
If not, would it be eligible to reduce the number of men in each
regiment, with a view to economy, and to an application of the
money saved to the extension of the naval armament? or are
there any prominent defects in the military establishments which
demand a reform ?

Will there be any utility, in reviving the section of the act
which establishes the provisional army, or the act for providing
for the draft of 80,000 militia?

Does good policy require very liberal grants of money for
fortifications ?

Is it expedient to continue the act prohibiting intercourse
with France and her acknowledged dominions ? If so, as the act
now stands, may commerce be carried on between the United
States and any part of the French dominions that shall withdraw
from its allegiance to the parent country ? or, if this be doubtful,
would it be politic to grant an express commission to the Presi-
dent to open the trade with any part of the French dominions,
when, in his opinion, the public good would admit or require it?

Shall the President be authorized to attack, capture, and
hold all or any of the French West India islands as an indemnity
for the spoliations committed on our trade?

If on this, or any other subjects, you see fit to gratify me
with your opinions, they will be cherished and respected by me
without a disclosure of the source from which they are derived ;
and if, on the other hand, you think this liberty is not warranted
by the duration or intimacy of my personal acquaintance, you

Mi. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 379

will, I hope, excuse and impute it to an habitual and profound
respect for your character and talents.
I am, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

H. G. Otis.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, December 21st, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I have received your favor of the 20th> with twenty dollars ;
the sum I lent you was thirty dollars ; yesterday I sent you a
small bill which you forgot to pay. No consul can be received
at present.

The result of all the inquiries which I have been able to make
is, that a small sum might be raised by the gradual sale of 1\ per
cent, stock at par, but that there can be no certainty, that a loan
would immediately be filled for the sum we want under 8 per cent.

If among your acquaintances you discover any circumstances
to alter this opinion, be pleased to inform me soon.

HAMILTON" TO OTIS.

New-York, December 27tli, 1798.

Dear Sir :

I did not receive till yesterday your letter dated 21st inst.
No apology was necessary for so gratifying a remark of your
good opinion, upon which I set the high value it so justly de-
serves.

In the inclosed extract of a letter to another of the govern-
ment, you will find my ideas generally on the subject of your
letter. I adopt this method of communication as equally effec-

380 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

tual and best adapted to the multiplicity of my avocations.
Some additional remarks in direct reference to your particular
questions, may perhaps be requisite to fulfil your object.

Any reduction of the actual force appears to me inexpedient.
It will argue to our enemy that we are either very narrow in
our resources, or that our jealousy of his designs are abated.
Besides, that with a view to the possibility of internal disorders
alone, the force authorized is not too considerable. The efficacy
of militia for suppressing such disorders is not too much to be
relied upon. The experience of the western expedition ought
not to be forgotten. That was a very uphill business. There
were more than once appearances to excite alarm as to the per-
severance of the troops, and it is not easy to foresee what might
have been the result had there been serious resistance. The re-
petition of similar exertions may be found very difficult, inso-
much as to render it extremely needful, in these precarious times,
to have the government armed with the whole of the force which
has been voted.

There are several defects in the military establishment which
demand reform as well for economy as efficiency. On these
there has been an ample communication from the Commander-in-
Chief to the Department of War. I cannot conceive why nothing
has yet gone to progress. Certainly this cannot be much longer
delayed. Will it be amiss informally to interrogate the minis-
ter? If the silence is persisted in, you shall know from me the
objects.

The extract answers your question as to the provisional army.
I think the act respecting the eighty thousand militia ought like-
wise to be revived. The effect abroad will be good, and it will
likewise be so at home, as the evidence of a reliance of the gov-
ernment on the militia.

Good policy does not appear to me to require extensive ap-
propriations for fortifications at the present juncture. Money can
be more usefully employed in other ways. A good deal of pre-
vious examination ought to lead to a plan for fortifying three or
four cardinal points. More than this will be a misapplication of
money. Secure positions for arsenals and dock-yards are in
this view a primary object.

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 381

Your last question respecting the West India Islands, I shall
reserve for a future communication.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, December 28th, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I have embraced every opportunity since the receipt of yours
of the 21st to obtain light on the subject of the loan ; but my
research has been essentially fruitless. Opinions are as various
as they are vague. You must therefore conjecture, and you
ought to act on the sure side for selling the loan.

For my part, I retain the opinion that the loan ought to be
upon eight per cent interest, the capital to be fixed for ten years,
and then to become redeemable at pleasure, one per cent to be
appropriated cotemporarily as a purchasing fund for sinking the
principal, and the loan to be open for competition for the entire
or any less sum ; time enough to let in European bidders.

The true principle is to get as good terms as possible for the
United States, exclusive of local considerations, which can only
have a temporary and illusory operation. The stock will find its
way to its proper market, wherever it may be first sold.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

1798.

Dear Sir:

I have been reading the report of the Secretary of «the Treas-
ury on the subject of direct taxes. I think it does him credit.
The general principles and objects are certainly good, nor am I
sure that any thing better can be done.

I remember, however, that I once promised you to put in

382 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

writing my ideas on the subject. I intended to have done it, and
communicated them to the Secretary. My hurry and press of
business prevented me ; but I concluded lately to devote an even-
ing to a rude sketch, and to send it to you. You may show it to
the Secretary, and confer. If, in the course of the thing, it can
be applied to the general end we all have in view, it will give me
pleasure ; if not, there will have been but little time misspent.
Of course, no use will be made of it in contradiction to the views
of the Treasury Department.

As to the part which relates to land, I do not feel any strong
preference of my plan to that in the report; for this, in my opin-
ion, ought to be considered only as an auxiliary, and not as the
pith of the tax. But I own, I have a strong preference of my
plan of a house-tax to that in the report. These are my reasons.

It is more comprehensive, embracing all houses, and will be
proportionably more productive. It is more certain, avoiding
the evasions and partialities to which valuations will be for ever
liable, and I think it for that reason likely to be at least as equal.
I entertain no doubt that the rule of rates, adapted as they are to
characteristic circumstances, will in fact be more favorable to
equality than appraisements. I think the idea of taxing only
houses of above a certain annual value will be dissatisfactory.
The comparison of the proprietors of houses immediately above
with those immediately below the line will beget discontent, and
the errors of valuations will increase it.

I think there will be a great advantage in throwing the weight
of the tax on houses, as well because lands are more difficult to
manage as because it will fall in a manner less dissatisfactory.

My plan as to houses can be easily combined with that in
the report as to land.

Some years ago I proposed a similar plan in the legislature
of this State. It went through three readings and had a great
majority in its favor, but as it was essentially different from
what had always before obtained in the State it was thought best
to postpone, to feel the sense of constituents. — I left the legisla-
ture— changes in our political situation rendered the plan of
State taxation less important, and the business shrunk out of

JEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 383

sight. But there was every appearance that the plan would have
been popular in this State.

You observe I confine myself to a million. I would not bear
hard in this way. 1 would add, as aid, the taxes contemplated
last session— on stamps, collateral successions, new modifications
of some articles of in ports, and let me add, saddle-horses. The
idea of taxing slaves generally will not work well. If confined
to all menial servants Tor luxury, as coachmen, footmen, cooks,
&c, it would be eligible.

HAMILTON TO DAYTON.

1799.

An accurate view of the internal situation of the United
States presents many discouraging reflections to the enlightened
friends of our government and country. Notwithstanding the
unexampled success of our public measures at home and abroad,
— notwithstanding the instructive comments afforded by the dis-
astrous and disgusting scenes of the French Revolution — public
opinion has not been ameliorated ; sentiments dangerous to social
happiness have not been diminished : on the contrary, there are
symptoms which warrant the apprehension that among the most
numerous class of citizens, errors of a very pernicious tendency
have not only preserved but have extended their empire. Though
something may have been gained on the side of men of informa-
tion and property, more has probably been lost on that of per-
sons of a different description. An extraordinary exertion of
the friends of government, aided by circumstances of momentary
impression, gave, in the last election for members of Congress, a
more favorable countenance to some States than they had before
worn ; yet it is the belief of well-informed men, that no real or
desirable change has been wrought in those States. On the other
hand, it is admitted by close observers, that some of the parts of
the Union which, in time past, have been the soundest, have of
late exhibited signs of a gangrene begun and progressive.

384 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 42.

It is likewise apparent that opposition to the government has
acquired more system than formerly, is bolder in the avowal of
its designs, less solicitous than it was to discriminate between the
Constitution and the administration, and more open and more
enterprising in its projects. The late attempt of Virginia and
Kentucky to unite the State legislatures in a direct resistance to
certain laws of the Union, can be considered in no other light
than as an attempt to change the government.

It is stated, in addition, that the opposition party in Vir-
ginia, the head-quarters of the faction, have followed up the hos-
tile declarations which are to be found in the resolutions of their
General Assembly by an actual preparation of the means of sup-
porting them by force ; that they have taken measures to put
their militia on a more efficient footing — are preparing consider-
able arsenals and magazines, and (which is an unequivocal proof
how much they are in earnest) have gone so far as to lay new
taxes on their citizens. Amidst such serious indications of hos-
tility, the safety and the duty of the supporters of the govern*'
ment call upon them to adopt vigorous measures of counteraction.
It will be wise in them to act upon the hypothesis, that the op-
posers of the government are resolved, if it shall be practicable,
to make its existence a question of force. Possessing as they
now do all the constitutional powers, it will be an unpardonable
mistake on their part if they do not exert them to surround the
Constitution with more ramparts, and to disconcert the schemes
of its enemies.

The measures proper to be adopted may be classed under
heads.

First. — Establishments which will extend the influence and
promote the popularity of the Government. Under this head
three important expedients occur. First. The extension of the
Judiciary system. Second. The improvement of the great com-
munications, as well interiorly as coastwise by turnpike roads.
Third. The institution of a society with funds to be employed
in premiums for new inventions, discoveries and improvements
in agriculture and in the arts.

The extension of the Judiciary system ought to embrace two

/Et. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 38b

objects: — one, the subdivision of each State into small districts
(suppose Connecticut into four, and so on in proportion), assign-
ing to each a judge with a moderate salary — the other, the ap-
pointment in each county of conservators or justices of the
peace, with only ministerial functions, and with no other com-
pensation than fees for the services they shall perform. This
measure is necessary to give efficacy to the laws, the execution
of which is obstructed by the want of similar organs and by the
indisposition of the local magistrates in some States. The Con-
stitution requires that judges shall have fixed salaries ; but this
does not apply to mere justices of the peace without judicial
powers. Both those descriptions of persons are essential, as well
to the energetic execution of the laws as to the purposes of salu-
tary patronage.

The thing no doubt would be a subject of clamor, but it
would carry with it its own antidote, and when once established,
would bring a very powerful support to the government.

The improvement of the roads would be a measure universally
popular. None can be more so. For this purpose a regular plan
should be adopted coextensive with the Union, to be successively
executed, and a fund should be appropriated sufficient for the
basis of a loan of a million of dollars. The revenue of the post-
office naturally offers itself. The future revenue from tolls would
more than reimburse the expense, and public utility would be
promoted in every direction. The institution of a society, with
the aid of proper funds, to encourage agriculture and the arts,
besides being productive of general advantage, will speak power-
fully to the feelings and interests of those classes of men to whom
the benefits derived from the government have been heretofore
the least manifest.

Second : Provision for augmenting the means and consoli-
dating the strength of the government. A million of dollars
may without difficulty be added to the revenue, by increasing the
rates of some existing indirect taxes, and by the addition of some
new items of a similar character.

The direct taxes ought neither to be increased nor diminished.
Our naval force ought to be completed to six ships of the line,
f 25

386 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42

twelve frigates, and twenty-four sloops of war. More at this
juncture would be disproportioned to our resources; less would
be inadequate to the ends to be accomplished. Our military
force should, for the present, be kept upon its actual footing;
making provision for a re-enlistment of the men for five years in
the event of a settlement of differences with France, — with this
condition, that in case of peace between Great Britain, France,
and Spain, the United States being then also at peace, all the
privates of the twelve additional regiments of infantry, and of
the regiment of dragoons, not exceeding twenty to a company,
shall be disbanded. The corps of artillerists may be left to retain
the numbers which it shall happen to have, but without being re-
cruited until the number of officers and privates shall fall below
the standard of the infantry and dragoons. A power ought to
be given to the President to augment the four old regiments to
their war establishment.

The laws respecting volunteer companies, and the eventual
army, should be rendered permanent, and the executive should
proceed without delay to organize the latter. Some modifications
of the discretion of the President will however be proper in a
permanent law. And it will be a great improvement of the
plan, if it shall be thought expedient to allow the enlistment, for
the purpose of instruction, of a corps of sergeants equal to the
number requisite for the eventual army. The institution of a
Military Academy will be an auxiliary of great importance.
Manufactories of every article, the woollen parts of clothing in-
cluded, which are essential to the supply of the army, ought to
be established.

Third : Arrangements for confirming and enlarging the legal
powers of the government. There are several temporary laws
which, in this view, ought to be rendered permanent, particularly
that which authorizes the calling out of the militia to suppress
unlawful combinations and insurrections.

An article ought to be proposed to be added to the Constitu-
tion, for empowering Congress to open canals in all cases in
which it may be necessary to conduct them through the territory
of two or more States, or through the territory of a State and

A 0.42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 387

that of the United States. The power is very desirable for the
purpose of improving the prodigious facilities for inland naviga-
tion with which nature has favored this country. It will also as-
sist commerce and agriculture, by rendering the transportation of
commodities more cheap and expeditious. It will tend to secure
the connection, by facilitating the communication between distant
portions of the Union, and it will be a useful source of influence
to the government. Happy would it be, if a clause could be
added to the Constitution, enabling Congress, on the application
of any considerable portion of a State, containing not less than
a hundred thousand persons, to erect it into a separate State, on
the condition of fixing the quota of contributions which it shall
make towards antecedent debts, if any there shall be, reserving
to Congress the authority to levy within such State the taxes
necessary to the payment of such quota, in case of neglect on the
part of the State. The subdivision of the great States is indispensa-
ble to the security of the general government, and with it of the Union.
Great States will always feel a rivalship with the common head,
will often be supposed to machinate against it, and in certain situa-
tions will be able to do it with decisive effect. The subdivision of such
States ought to be a cardinal point in the federal policy ; and small
States are doubtless best adapted to the purposes of heal regulation and
to the preservation of the republican spirit. This suggestion, however,
is merely thrown out for consideration. It is feared that it would
be inexpedient and even dangerous to propose, at this time, an
amendment of the kind.

Fourth : Laws for restraining and punishing incendiary and
seditious practices. It will be useful to declare that all such
writings, &c., which at common law are libels, if levelled against
any officer whatsoever of the United States, shall be cognizable
in the courts of the United States. To preserve confidence in the
officers of the general government, by preserving their reputations
from malicious and unfounded slanders, is essential, to enable them
to fulfil the ends of their appointment. It is therefore both consti-
tutional and politic to place their reputations under the guardian-
ship of the courts of the United States. They ought not to be left
to the cold and reluctant protection of State courts, always tempo-

388 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42

rizing and sometimes disaffected. But what avail laws which are
not executed ? Eenegade aliens conduct more than one of the
most incendiary presses in the United States — and yet, in open
contempt and defiance of the laws, they are permitted to con-
tinue their destructive labors. Why are they not sent away?
Are laws of this kind passed merely to excite odium and remain
a dead letter? Vigor in the executive is at least as necessary as
in the legislative branch ; if the President requires to be stim-
ulated those who can approach him ought to do it.

HAMILTON TO LA FAYETTE.

New-York, January 6th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I have been made happy, my dear friend, by the receipt of your
letter of the 12th of August last. No explanation of your polit-
ical principles was necessary to satisfy me of the perfect consist-
ency and purity of your conduct. The interpretation may al-
ways be left to my attachment for you. Whatever difference of
opinion may on any occasion exist between us, can never lessen
my conviction of the goodness both of your head and heart. I
expect from you a return of this sentiment so far as concerns the
heart. "lis needless to detail to you my political tenets. I
shall only say that I hold with Montesquieu, that a government
must be fitted to a nation, as much as a coat to the individual ;
and, consequently, that what may be good at Philadelphia, may
be bad at Paris, and ridiculous at Petersburgh.

I join with you in regretting the misunderstanding between
our two countries. You will have seen by the President's speech
that a door is again opened for terminating them amicably. And
you may be assured that we are sincere, and that it is in the
power of France, by reparation to our merchants for past injury,
and the stipulation of justice in future, to put an end to the con-
troversy.

But I do not much like the idea of your being any way im-

JEt.42.] correspondence. 389

plicated in the affair, lest you should be compromitted in the
opinion of one or the other of the parties. It is my opinion that
it is best for you to stand aloof. Neither have I abandoned the
idea that it is most advisable for you to remain in Europe till the
difference is adjusted. It would be very difficult for you here to
steer a course which would not place you in a party, and not re-
move you from the broad ground which you now occupy in the
hearts of all. It is a favorite point with me that you shall find
in the universal regard of this country all the consolations which
the loss of your own (for so I consider it) may render requisite.
Mrs. Church and Mrs. Hamilton unite in assurance of their
affectionate remembrance.

Believe me always

Your very cordial and faithful friend,

A. H.

Marquis De La Fayette.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, January 21st, 1790.

Dear Sir:

We have the New-York papers to the 15th ult. These con-
tain the speeches as well as the answers of the two Houses. All
seems intended for the best, but it gives me an ill idea abroad of
our zeal, to find that our army decreed so many months since
remained to be raised. The difficulty and time necessary to find
suitable officers, reminds one of the like impediments which pre-
ceded the appointment of' Monroe to Paris. I hope the results
will differ.

I am entirely disposed, indeed resolved, to treat the subject as
the good principles of all concerned merit, but I can't conceal from
you my very great apprehension that too much is left to the chance
and influence of intrigue and diplomatic skill. In the light in
which I alone can see the views of France, there seems to be no
secure alternative, and the sooner we so say and act, the less
will be our danger.

390 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

For God's sake attend to the very interesting subject treated
of in my ciphered dispatches to the Secretary of State of the 10th,
18th, and 19th, instant. Connect it as it should be, with the main
object, the time to accomplish which has arrived. "Without su-
perstition, Providence seems to have prepared the way, and to
have pointed out the instruments of its will. Our children will
reproach us if we neglect our duty, and humanity will escape
many scourges if we act with wisdom and decision. I am more
confirmed than before, that an efficient force will be confederated
to act against France. The combination is not yet completed, but,
as I have reason to believe, will soon be.

That will be the moment for us to settle upon immutable
foundations the extensive system of the American nation. Who
can hinder us ? One nation alone has the power ; and she will
co-operate in the accomplishment in South America of what has
so well been done in North.

P. S. — Mr. Church knows very well Col. Maitland.

HAMILTON TO H. G. OTIS.

New-York, January 26th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

You will recollect that I reserved for a future answer part of
a letter which I had the pleasure of receiving from you some
time since. These are my ideas on that subject.

I should be glad to see, before the close of the session, a law
empowering the President, at his discretion, in case a negotiation
between the United States and France should not be on foot by
the first of August next, or being on foot should terminate with-
out an adjustment of differences, to declare that a state of war
exists between the two countries, and thereupon to employ the
land and naval forces of the United States in such manner as

JEt.43.] correspondence. 391

shall appear to him most effectual for annoying the enemy, and
for preventing and frustrating hostile designs of France, either
directly or indirectly through any of her allies.

This course of proceeding, by postponing the event, and giv-
ing time for the intervention of negotiation, would be a further
proof of moderation in the government, and would tend to
reconcile our citizens to the last extremity, if it shall ensue,
gradually accustoming their minds to look forward to it.

If France be really desirous of accommodation, this plan will
accelerate her measures to bring it about. If she have not that
desire, it is best to anticipate her final vengeance, and to throw
whatever weight we have into the scale opposed to her. This
conduct may contribute to disable her to do the mischief which
she may meditate.

As it is every moment possible that the project of taking-
possession of the Floridas and Louisiana long since attributed to
France, may be attempted to be put in execution, it is very im-
portant that the Executive should be clothed with power to meet
and defeat so dangerous an enterprise. Indeed, if it is the policy
of France to leave us in a state of semi-hostility, 'tis preferable
to terminate it, and by taking possession of those countries for
ourselves, to obviate the mischief of their falling into the hands
of an acti ve foreign power, and at the same time to secure to the
United States the advantage of keeping the key of the western
country. I have been long in the habit of considering the ac-
quisition of those countries as essential to the permanency of
the Union, which I consider as very important to the welfare of
the whole.

If universal empire is still to be the pursuit of France, what
can tend to defeat the purpose better than to detach South Ame-
rica from Spain, which is only the channel through which the
riches of Mexico and Peru are conveyed to France ? The execu-
tive ought to be put in a situation to embrace favorable conjunc-
tures for effecting that separation. 'Tis to be regretted that the
preparation of an adequate military force does not advance more
rapidly. There is some sad nonsense on this subject in some
good heads. The reveries of some of the friends of the govern-

392 HAMILTON'S .WORKS. [JEt. 42.

iuent are more injurious to it than the attacks of its declared
enemies.

When will men learn to profit by experience ?

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia. February 7th, 1799.

I had the pleasure, my dear sir, the day before yesterday, to
receive your favor of the 2d.

With regard to the conduct of Virginia and Kentucky, the
moment I came into town, I applied to the apparent leaders in
the House of Kepresentatives, and stated to them my opinion of
the measures which to me seemed expedient to be adopted. That
it was necessary to preoccupy the ground ; that for this purpose,
it would be expedient to appoint an able committee, to refer the
addresses on the subject with an intention of making a report,
which should have all the properties of an address. I had two
reasons for preferring this being done by the House, because we
had before the Senate no address on the subject, and because,
for obvious reasons, the conduct of the House would excite more
attention, and make a deeper impression. I spoke to no gentle-
man who did not explicitly concur with me in opinion, but
nothing has been done, because, as I understand the gentlemen
cannot agree on the precise mode in which it is to be done.
They still say, and I have this day had conversation with them
on the subject, that the business will yet be done. Had it not
been believed that the House would have before this time exe-
cuted this important object, it would have long since been in
progress in the Senate. It is not yet, perhaps, too late, though
I regret as much as any one the delay.

You have seen, I presume, the address of the minority of the
House of Representatives of Virginia to their constituents. It is
said to have been drawn by Marshall. It is able, and elegant,
and eloquent ; but the eloquence is of a kind not to make a

JEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 393

deep impression on the gross materials to which it is addressed.
It shows that its author believes their situation critical, and the
danger imminent. It was, perhaps, incompatible with the rela-
tion of the addressers, as a minority, to employ the instrument
of denunciation, and yet I am persuaded, no procedure of this
kind can be effectual without it.

Under the present circumstances, is it expedient that this
subject should be undertaken by the Senate?

The delays in the military department are as unaccountable as
they are injurious. Immediately after receiving your letter, I
called on the Secretary at War ; he told me that the delay had
originated principally from a disappointment in obtaining cloth-
ing,— that the contracts had failed. I replied that if such was
the case, that by an immediate employment of all the tailors in
the great towns, clothes might be procured faster than they
would be wanted by the recruits ; that this was the season to
enlist ; that it would soon be passed ; and that if this opportunity
was neglected, no one could foresee the evil consequences which
might result. It would give encouragement to all those who
had already erected the standard of opposition. It would dis-
hearten the friends of the government, and render the govern-
ment itself unpopular.

He said that the business of enlistment would be put under
t jur immediate direction ; that the orders for that purpose were
.n forwardness, and would that day be completed, and submitted
to the President for his approbation ; and that the next day they
would be forwarded to you by the mail. Before this time, there-
fore, you have them ; but if they are not impracticable, I shall
be agreeably disappointed. Is there no remedy for this evil ?
Will it be possible to get on in a state of war or insurrection ?

I need not say I write to you in the most perfect confidence.
I last evening called to pay my respects to the President. He
was alone, and, as I hoped, soon introduced the subject of our
military. I gave him my view of the subject, and somewhat at
large. He replied, and nearly in the following words : — " As to
the. Virginians, sir, it is weakness to apprehend any thing from
them ; but, if you must have an army, I will give it to you ; but,

394 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 49.

remember, it will make the government more unpopular than all
their other acts. They have submitted with more patience than
any people ever did to the burden of taxes, which has been
liberally laid on, but their patience will not last always." This
was the text on which he dilated extensively. I cannot say that
I was astonished. Astonishment is a sentiment which he has
for some time lost the power to excite.

During- the time that I was with him, the bill before the
Senate for the organization of the army was mentioned. He
asked me what additional authority it was proposed to give the
commander-in-chief? I answered none ; that all that was pro-
posed was to give him a new title — that of general. " What,"
said he, " are you going to appoint him general over the Presi-
dent? I have not been so blind but I have seen a combined
effort among those who call themselves the friends of govern-
ment, to annihilate the essential powers given to the President.
This, sir, (raising his voice,) my understanding has perceived, and
my heart felt." After an expression of surprise, and a declara-
tion of belief that he was mistaken, with all humility I prayed
him to mention the facts from which he had made this inference.
He answered, that if I had not seen it, it was improper for him
to go into the detail.

This shows that we are afflicted with an evil for which cer-
tainly no complete remedy can be applied ; but it might be pal-
liated, perhaps, by bringing into the administration a man of
talents, and of that peculiar kind which gives an ascendency
without its being perceived. This never was in any country
more important. Nor if the right character could be found, is
it an object unattainable? With all his good qualities, however,
our friend C n is not the man. In official details and execu-
tion, he has perhaps no superior ; but in the other, and more
essential characteristic, to my mind, he is wholly deficient. But
can a vacancy be made ? While I have been continuing writing,
amidst the chit-chat of senatorial debate, the mail is closed.
Will you permit me to close this without revision? I have
written I know not what, but I hope it is intelligible. This I do
know, that I am

Yours sincerely, &c.

JEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 395

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New- York, Feb. 9, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I am this moment favored with your letter of the 9th instant.
I shall immediately reflect on the most important point, and to-
morrow give you the result.

The provision in the law is ample. But in this, my dear sir,
as in every thing else, we must unite caution with decision. The
United States must not be committed on the independence of St.
Domingo. No guaranty — no formal treaty — nothing that can
rise up in judgment. It will be enough to let Touissant be as-
sured verbally, but explicitly, that upon his declaration of inde-
pendence a commercial intercourse will be opened, and continue
while he maintains it, and gives due protection to our vessels
and property. I incline to think the declaration of independ-
ence ought to precede.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

(private.)

New-York, February 1G, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Different reasons have conspired to prevent my writing to
you since my return to New-York — the multiplicity of my avo-
cations, an imperfect state of health, and the want of something
material to communicate.

The official letter herewith transmitted, will inform you of
the disposition of our military affairs which has been recently
adopted by the department of war. There shall be no want of
exertion on my part to promote the branches of the service con-
fided to my care.

But I more and more discover cause to apprehend that obsta-

396 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

cles of a very peculiar kind stand in the way of an efficient and
successful management of our military concerns. These it would
be unsafe at present to explain.

It may be useful that I should be able to write to you here-
after some confidential matters relating to our administration
without the mention of names — when this happens, I shall desig-
nate the President as X, the Secretary of State by V, of the
Treasury by I, and of the Department of War by C.

Every thing in the northern quarter, as far as I can learn,
continues favorable to the Government.

Very affectionately and truly, 1 remain, &c.

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, February 19, 1799.

My Dear Sir:

The President, yesterday, sent the Senate a nomination of
Mr. Murray to be appointed Minister Plenipotentiary to the
French Republic ; accompanied by a letter from Talleyrand to
the Secretary of the French legation at Amsterdam. By this
letter it appears that for some time communications have been
made to Mr. Murray of the friendly dispositions of the French
government towards this country, and it contains assurances that
any minister from America will be received and treated with the
respect due to the representative of a great, powerful, and independ-
ent nation. I have neither time nor inclination to detail all the
false and insidious declarations it contains. This measure, im-
portant and mischievous as it is, was the result of Presidential
wisdom, without the knowledge of, or any intimation to any one
of the administration. Had the foulest heart and the ablest head
in the world have been permitted to select the most embarrass-
ing and ruinous measure, perhaps it would have been precisely
the one which has been adopted. In the dilemma to which we
are reduced, whether we approve or reject the nomination, evils

/Et. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 597

only, certain, great, but in extent incalculable, present them-
selves. This would be true was Mr. Murray the ablest negotiator
in Christendom ; but with all his virtues, he is feeble, unguarded,
credulous, and unimpressive. I have not yet decided ulti-
mately what I shall do. At present the nomination must be
postponed. I am much obliged to you for the copy you sent me
of the Eeport. It is excellent. I have made the best use of it
in my power.

I am, with sincerity, your friend.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, February 21, 1799.

The step announced in your letter just received, in all its
circumstances, would astonish, if any thing from that quarter
could astonish.

But as it has happened, my present impression is, that the
measure must go into effect with the additional idea of a Com-
mission of Three.

The mode must be accommodated with the President. Murray
is certainly not strong enough for so immensely important a
mission.

Yours truly,

A. H.

I will write to-morrow if my impression varies.

398 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 42.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, February 20. 1799.

Dear Sir:

Since I wrote you on the 9th, (which you acknowledge in a
short letter, promising further communications,) Dr. Stevens has
been appointed Consul-General of St. Domingo, and will proba-
bly embark before the close of next week. If you have written
further to me in answer to my letter of the 9th, the letter has
miscarried, for I have received nothing. I must frame Dr.
Stevens's instructions in a few days, and wish to furnish him with
ideas on the point I stated. This cannot be done officially, but he
will know how to use it.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.
(confidential.)

Philadelphia, February 25th, 1799.

My Dear Sir:

This morning I have received your favor of the 21st. We
have all been shocked and grieved at the nomination of a min-
ister to negotiate with France. There is but one sentiment on
the subject among the friends of their country and the real sup-
porters of the President's administration. Pains have been taken
to ameliorate the measure by throwing it into a commission. But
the President is fixed. The Senate must approve or negative the
nomination. In the latter event, perhaps he will name commis-
sioners. I beg you to be assured, that it is wholly his own act,
without any participation or communication with any of us. It
is utterly inconsistent with his late nominations of Mr. King to
negotiate a commercial treaty with Russia, and of Mr. Smith to
negotiate a like treaty with the Porte. Both these objects will
now be defeated. It was by the proffered aid of Russia and Great

JEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 399

Britain, that we were induced to propose to negotiate with the
Porte. With respect to St. Domingo, the President will certainly
do no act to encourage Touissaint to declare the island independ-
ent ; but he will doubtless open the commercial intercourse, when
Dr. Stevens (Consul-General) shall certify that privateering is at
an end ; so that, agreeably to the 4th section of the act, the Pres-
ident may consider it safe and for the interest of the United
States to do it.

The foundation of this fatal nomination of Mr. Murray was
laid in the President's speech at the opening of Congress. He
peremptorily determined (against our unanimous opinions) to
leave open the door for the degrading and mischievous measure
of sending another minister to France, even without waiting for
direct overtures from her.

»

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, February 25th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

The committee to whom was referred the President's message
nominating Mr. Murray, had a free conversation with him on
Saturday evening, under the protestation that it should not be
mentioned in the report, nor considered as a precedent. During
the conversation he declared repeatedly, that to defend the exec-
utive against oligarchic influence, it was indispensable that he
should insist on a decision on the nomination ; and he added :
" I have, on mature reflection, made up my mind, and I will
neither withdraw nor modify the nomination." He was, how-
ever, pleased to let us know, that if Murray was negatived, he
would then propose a commission, two of the members of which
should be gentlemen within the United States ; that the com-
mission should be joint ; but that by instructions, any two should
be authorized to act, and that in no case should the gentlemen be
m permitted to leave the country until the positive assurances men-

*

400 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 42.

tioned in his message of the 21st June shall have been given.
In consequence of these declarations, at a meeting of the federal
members, it was agreed to reject the nomination. I had already
framed a report, and was ready to make it, when I was privately
informed that he wished I would postpone the report, as he was
preparing a message on the subject.

That is this moment delivered — is on the principles he had
mentioned, and the persons named are the Chief Justice, Patrick
Henry, and Mr. Murray. This is every thing which, under the
circumstances, could be done. I have written the above during
debate ; I hope it is intelligible.

General Hamilton.

"WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Mount Vernon, Feb. 25, 1799.

My Dear Sir:

Your private letter of the 16th inst., came duly to hand, and
safe ; and I wish you at all times, and upon all occasions, to com-
municate interesting occurrences, with your opinions thereon (in
the manner you have designated), with the utmost unreserved-
ness to me.

If the augmented force was not intended as an in terrorem
measure, the delay in recruiting it is unaccountable, and baffles
all conjecture on reasonable grounds. The zeal and enthusiasm
which were excited by the publication of the dispatches from our
commissioners at Paris (which gave birth to the law authorizing
the raising of twelve regiments, &c.) are evaporated — and if this
dull season, when men are idle from want of employment, and
from that cause might be induced to enlist, is suffered to pass
away also, we shall, by and by, when the business of agriculture
and other avocations call for the labor of them, set out as a for-
lorn hope to execute this business.

Had the formation of the army followed closely the passage .

Mr. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 401

of this act, and recruiting orders had trod on the heels of that,
the men which might have been raised at that time, would, in
point of numbers, have been equal to any in the world ; inas-
much as the most reputable yeomanry of the country were ready
to have stepped forward with alacrity.

Now the measure is not only viewed with indifference, but
deemed unnecessary by that class of people whose attentions
being turned to other matters, the officers who, in August and
September, could, with ease, have enlisted whole companies of
them, will find it difficult to recruit any ; and if this idle and
dissipated season is spent in inactivity, none but the riff-raff of
the country and the scape-gallowses of the large cities will be to
be had.

Far removed from the scene, I might ascribe these delays to
wrong causes, and therefore will hazard no opinion respecting
them; but I have no hesitation in pronouncing that, unless a
material change takes place, our military theatre affords but a
gloomy prospect to those who are to perform the principal parts
in the drama. Sincerely and affectionately,

I am always yours,

Geo. Washington.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Mount Vernon, Feb. 26, 1799.

My Dear Sir :

I received your letter of the 18th inst. yesterday. You refer
me to inclosed letters for information on the subject therein men-
tioned. One letter only came, and that under a seal to General
Lee, which I shall forward, unopened, to-morrow by my nephew,
Mr. Bushrod Washington, who is a neighbor of his.

Having written to you yesterday both an official and private
F 26

402 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \JEt. 42.

letter, I have only to add in this, that with sincere esteem and
affectionate regard,

I am, my dear Sir, always yours,

Geo. Washington.

General Hamilton.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, March 4, 1799.
Our opinions do not differ upon a very important subject that
has more than once been mentioned in our correspondence. I
am entirely ignorant of the sentiments of the President, though
I have again and again treated of it, and sometimes with earnest-
ness, in my dispatches. This silence gives me some inquietude.
Mr. G. will send you the reflections that have occurred to him,
and will also explain the motives for putting them into your
hands. I cannot at this distance decide upon the expediency of
publishing these reflections, but I am much inclined to recom-
mend it, as all our conjectures, explained and confirmed by every
thing we see, enjoin upon us to look for safety only in our own
courage and upon our own continent.

With perfect regard and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO KNOX.

New-York, March 14, 1799.

My Bear Sir :

The inclosed letters, as I concluded from others which ac-
companied them, have been a long time getting to hand. There
was a moment when their object seemed to present itself as one
not entirely chimerical ; but the probability has diminished. 'Tis
however a thing on which the mind may still speculate as in the

jEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 403

chapter of extraordinary events which characterize the present
wonderful epoch.

My j udgment tells me I ought to be silent on a certain sub-
ject ; but my heart advises otherwise, and my heart has always
been the master of my judgment. Believe me I have felt much
pain at the idea, that any circumstance personal to me should
have deprived the public of your services or occasioned to you the
smallest dissatisfaction. Be persuaded, also, that the views of
others, not my own, have given shape to what has taken place —
and that there has been a serious struggle between my respect
and attachment for you and the impression of duty. This
sounds, I know, like affectation, but it is nevertheless the truth.
In a case in which such great public interests were concerned, it
seemed to me the dictate of reason and propriety, not to exercise
an opinion of my own, but to leave that of others, who could in-
fluence the issue, to take a free course. In saying this much,
my only motive is to preserve, if I may, a claim on your friendly
disposition towards me, and to give you some evidence that my
regard for you is unabated. Adieu, my dear Sir.

Very much yours.

ST. CLAIR TO HAMILTON.

Cincinnati, March 14th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Under the same cover with this I have taken the liberty to
inclose to you some observations of mine on a letter from George
Nicholas, of Kentucky, to his friend in Virginia. You will per-
ceive that I have treated you very familiarly, but I am under no
apprehension that the purpose will be mistaken. It was a morti-
fication that I could not get them out in proper time, when I had
the vanity to suppose they might have done some good further
abroad than Kentucky. The severity of the winter, which dis-
appointed the printer in paper, was the cause. It will not now

404 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

miss entirely of effect in the country for which it was chiefly
intended.

Be that as it may, it has afforded me an opportunity, which I
embrace with great pleasure, of assuring you of the great regard
with which I ever am,

Dear Sir, &c.

VAN EENSSELAER TO HAMILTON.

Albany, March 15th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

The Assembly have a bill for electing electors of President
and Vice-President. It will pass. Are you of opinion that it
would be proper for the Senate to concur ? Unless New- York
gives us a different representation, the Federalists are lost. —
Whether we have any object now since the late conduct of the
President, you are a better judge than we. If it is, however,
necessary, that we should still persevere, pray let me hear from
you. Our friends are extremely pressing that I should write to
you on this subject. Mr. Sedgwick called on me for papers
which you was to transmit to my care.

Yours affectionately,

Stephen Van Eensselaer.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, March 21st, 1799.

Dear Sir:

It is a good principle for the United States to employ directly
its own means, only do not let this be carried so far as to confine
it to the use of inadequate means, or to embarrass the auxiliary
means which circumstances may require.

Mt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 405

The idea of the late President's administration of consider-
ing the Governor of each State as the first general of the militia,
and its immediate organ in acting upon the militia, was wisely
considered, and in my opinion, wisely adopted, and well to be
adhered to. In its final operation, it will obviate many difficul-
ties and collisions, and by enhancing their importance, tend to
draw the State Executives to the general government. Take
good care that in the present instance the force be not in-
adequate.

STEUBEN TO HAMILTON.

New-York, March 27th, 1799.

Dear Sir:

At the request of the Marquis de Eouvrai, I forward to you
the inclosed memoir relatif to the emigrancls of the French
islands, now in this country.

It appears to me that this object will become as interesting
to the United States as it is to these unhappy refugees, to be
reinstated in their possessions and property. How far the pro-
positions of the Marquis may be practicable in the execution, I
will not venture to say. But I believe we should endeavor to
get rid of these guests as soon as possible.

The plan of the harbor, with the proposed fortifications at
the Narrows, shall be forwarded to you in the beginning of the
next week.

You will oblige me, my dear sir, by a line in answer to the
receipt of the inclosed memoir.

406 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

t

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, April 1st, 1799.

Dear Sir:

* * * * General McPherson, it is said, will march on Wed-
nesday. I am grieved when I think of the situation of the gov-
ernment. An affair which ought to have been settled at once,
will cost much time, and perhaps be so managed as to encourage
other and formidable rebellions. We have no President here,
and the appearances of languor and indecision are discouraging
to the friends of government. Mr. McHenry does ' the best in
his power, yet his operations are such as to confirm more and
more a belief of utter unfitness for the situation.

The President has been informed of the disorders in that de-
partment, yet there appears no disposition to apply any correc-
tion. Expense, discord, and a general loss of influence, will, I
fear, be the only traits of the regulations adopted by Congress,
for the interior defence of the country.

In this State, affairs bear an unpleasant aspect. The Gov-
ernor is habitually intoxicated every day, and most commonly
every forenoon. Dallas and Judge McKean possess the efficient
powers of the government. The former has written to several
magistrates, that setting up liberty posts, as they are called, is no
crime, if done peaceably. The judge is in pretty open collision
with the mayor, who is a good man. On Saturday night,
Brown, &c, were attacked in a most violent and cruel manner
in their houses. The mayor ordered the men to prison, but on
Saturday morning they were enlarged by Judge McKean. In
short, McKean and Dallas mean to have it understood, that they
are determined to support all the turbulent and flagitious of the
community. I am not without hopes that this violent conduct
will open the eyes of the people. If it does not, we shall soon
have serious trouble in Pennsylvania.

You know the state of things in the country, the public opin-
ion, the disposition of the President ; if any thing can and ought
to be done, and I can be of any service, I will do it, however
unpleasant.

Mi.m.] CORRESPONDENCE. 407

I received the inclosed this morning, and have shown it to
Mr. McHenry. He says that the men are under your orders,
and will leave Windsor immediately.

When you have read this, be pleased to burn it, to prevent
accident.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, April 4th. 1799.

Sir:

I observe, by the Boston papers, that some dispatches have
been lately found on board a vessel from this port which was
carried into Gibraltar. The late consul here, Mr. Rosier, has
just been with me, and suggested that the dispatches are proba-
bly from him, and allude (but without naming me) to some con-
versations with me relating to his being received as consul-gen-
eral some time last winter. Being so much engaged as not to
have been able conveniently to call upon you, I mentioned the
subject while in Philadelphia to Mr. Wolcott, and was informed
by him that Mr. Rosier could not then be received. In the in-
terviews respecting this object, some general conversation took
place about the state of things between the two countries. Mr.
Rosier will write to you offering the means of deciphering his
dispatches, which he assures me, with every appearance of can-
dor, will be found to contain nothing unfriendly to this country.
It is his wish, in the mean time, that no idea may circulate of his
being a conspirator.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, May 22, 1799.

Dear Sir:

War is again declared by France against the temporizing
'cabinet of Vienna, and this has been the signal for Prussia to re-
sume her former system of insecure neutrality.

408 HAMILTON'S WORKS [jEt. 42.

We may every hour expect the result of a battle between
Jourdan and the Archduke, who, according to our last accounts,
were respectively advancing upon each other. The first blow
has been unfortunate for the allies. The whole of the Austrian
corps, 5000, at Coire, in the country of the Gascons, having fallen
into the hands of the French, commanded by Massena. I wish
that I felt more confident that this first success would not be fol-
lowed by more important victories. The 25,000 Eussians, who
were some time in the neighborhood of Vienna, are on their
march for Italy, where Suwarrow, an old Eussian officer, is to
command the combined armies.

If Prussia, with the north of Germany, which together have
an army of more than 300,000 men, had joined heartily and
honestly in the league against France, the Directory might have
been shaken ; but my hopes are weaker than my fears with re-
gard to the partial and ill-joined confederacy with which it is at
present engaged.

The publication of the treaty of Campo Formio, so disgraceful
to the court of Vienna, will prove hurtful to the Directory, by
confirming the jealousy of Prussia, and exciting distrust of the
Emperor throughout Germany, the interest and safety of which
was sacrificed by that treaty.

MCHENEY TO HAMILTON.

(private and confidential.)

June 26th, 1799.

My Dear Sir :

I find, from frequent and repeated conversations, that we have
not been able to remove any one of the prejudices entertained by
the Secretary of the Treasury against the augmentation of the
army ; that he thinks, or seems to think, that the means or
measures of the United States, which can be called forth without
annual loans, are inadequate to the expenditures required for the'

At. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 409

support of the army and navy, consequently that some part of
the one or the other must soon be suspended or dropped, and
that he even contemplates a statement of facts relative to our
means to the President. I regret all this from the bottom of my
soul, feeling as I do how much our peace, honor, and respect at
home and abroad depends upon the permanency of our little
army. I continue in the course which I had prescribed to my-
self, determined to intermit or suspend indispensable measures*
only when officially informed of its being no longer in the com-
petency of the Treasury means to support them, or answer the
requisite demands. The Secretary tells me, that notwithstand-
ing his opinion about the army, he will not do any thing to pre-
judice his friends or the public against it; — I reason in all the
forms I can think of, and I have thought it proper to keep
throwing into form paragraphs tending to show the necessity of
an army.

I know not how all this is to end. It will be mortifying, if
we have to retrograde, although under an act of Congress. I
consider it necessary to apprise you of the state of opinions here,
and to request your aid to the eastward, to keep up a due sense
of the propriety of the measure among our friends in that
quarter. The Secretary of State thinks right ; at least I have
seen no indications to the contrary. Mr. Goodrich has the fol-
lowing paragraph in a letter I received from him this morning.
" The recruiting service is proceeding successfully in this State
The sooner the troops can be withdrawn from the towns, em-
bodied, disciplined, and employed, the less speculation will be
excited about the army."

I think the plan heretofore recommended ought to be at-
tended to. I mean to hasten the recruits to their respective
regimental rendezvous.

Yours, &c.

410 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, July 15, 1799.

Dear Sir:

The French still maintain themselves in Switzerland, and
though unless soon and strongly reinforced, they will be driven
out of it. The success of the allies has been almost uninter-
rupted in Italy, from whence, according to present appearances,
the enemy must in a short time be totally expelled. Thus far,
the coalition has performed prodigies ; but the confederates are
not without mutual jealousies, which will increase with their
success, and which already has had the effect of preventing an
agreement upon a precise and ultimate object. Between Eng-
land and Russia the greatest union and confidence exist ; and
these powers do not disagree in what ought to be the end to be
aimed at and avowed. An uncommon coldness, and even more
than coldness, exists between Austria and England ; and between
the former and Russia there is less cordiality than could be
wished and expected. The issue of the campaign, for these
reasons, is less certain than it would be were the allies heartily
and disinterestedly engaged in the only species of war that can
give peace and security to the different nations of Europe.

It is extremely difficult yet to understand the late changes at
Paris. There are persons who see in them the death-blow of
French republicanism. I doubt very much this opinion, and am
inclined to consider the last in the same light as I have done the
former revolutions. I did expect that the changes would be
followed by measures of more energy than have been adopted.
There seems to be no reason to suppose that we are likely to
be benefited by the revolution. Seiyes' opinions concerning
America are no secret, and they give us no room to expect a
treatment different from that we have so long and so patiently
endured. The inclosure relates to a subject that I cease to write
or talk of, for reasons that you will be at no loss to conjecture.

Mr. 42.J CORRESPONDENCE. 411

KING TO HAMILTON.

July 31st, 1799.

Dear Sir:

You will believe that I have been much gratified with the
late intelligence from home. France has calculated all her plans
on our disunion, and the expectation that her friends, if not more
numerous, would be more active, and possess greater energy,
than the friends of our government ; or rather, she has believed
that our government, like that of every country that she has
succeeded to overturn and enslave, would act with such timidity,
and in so qualified a manner, that the affections and support of
the people would be easily withdrawn from, and even turned
against it. If the government continue to speak and act with
decision, the people will become more and more united, and still
better inclined to execute its purposes. This opinion should be
taken in connection with an observation (the importance of
which appears to me the greater the oftener I consider it) that I
have suggested in more than one of my late letters. The com-
position of addresses, and the forming of volunteer associations,
who will have nothing to do, are for the present well, but they
will cease to be novelties, and soon become tiresome ; and, to be
secure, you must have some sufficient object that will interest
and employ the passions of the nation. The mere defensive
system of the enemies of France has been a principal cause of
her success, and if we adopt the error, we shall be exposed to
greater risks than by a bold and active system, which, exclusive
of being the most certain means of safety, would promise the
acquisition of great and lasting advantages.

The destiny of the new world, and I have a full and firm
persuasion that it will be both happy and glorious, is in our
hands. We have a right, and it is our duty, to deliberate, and
to act not as secondaries, but as principals. The object and the
occasion are such as we ought not, in respect to ourselves or
others, to suffer to pass unimproved.

412 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42.

I have nothing to observe in reference to the subject of regret
and complaint mentioned in your last letters. You will not
doubt that all the means in my power have been employed to
correct the mischief — they have served only to convince me that
it is incorrigible. It is an evil too deeply rooted, and too power-
fully protected to be cured : and it is something gained to know
that it is so. If we are wise, we shall hasten the events that will
place the remedy in our own hands.

A frigate returning from Malta to Toulon with dispatches and
a general officer, has been captured by an English frigate, and
we are told that Buonaparte had sailed on his expedition two
days before the English fleet that pursues him arrived there. If
so, the French fleet is in great danger. Many persons think that
great events depend on the success or failure of Buonaparte's
expedition. All the late accounts from Paris say, a new storm
is at hand, but none express a hope that the changes it may
effect will make the condition of France or of others better.
Gerry still hangs about the Directory ! At Eastadt the Congress
continues, and the jealousies between Austria and Prussia, art-
fully kept alive by the common enemy, prevents that hearty
union, without which no successful co-operation will take place
against France.

In Ireland the rebellion is suppressed, and our government
will, I hope, have the power and the inclination to exclude those
disaffected characters who will be suffered to seek an asylum
among us. England is more than ever united, and resolves, with
confidence in the superiority of her resources, to prosecute the
war. There is no talk of peace — nor is there any appearance
which would lead to an opinion that new overtures for that pur-
pose are likely soon to be made.

On the other hand, France is undoubtedly extremely embar-
rassed any longer to find the money necessary to maintain her
army, and carry on the war.

Be so kind as to present my affectionate respects and congratu-
lations to the Governor. I ought to write to him, but I consider
a letter to him or you as nearly the same.

With great truth and attachment, &c.

Mr. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 413

P. S. — We have just heard that Gerry has received his pass-
port. At the close of Talleyrand's letter sending it, he says,
though the Directory, as a measure of precaution, had laid an
embargo on all American vessels, telle est la repugnance du
directoire a considerer les Etats Unis comme ennemis, qui malgre
leurs demonstrations hostiles, il veut attendre qu'il y voit irresis-
tiblement force par des hostilites reelles !

HAMILTON TO HOFFMAN.

1799.

Sir:

" Greenleaf 's New Daily Advertiser" of this morning contains
a publication entitled " Extract of a Letter from Philadelphia,
dated September 20th," which charges me with being at the " bot-
tom of an effort recently made to suppress the Aurora11 (a news-
paper of that city) by pecuniary means.

It is well known that I have long been the object of the most
malignant calumnies of the faction opposed to our government
through the medium of the papers devoted to their views. Hith-
erto, I have forborne to resort to the laws for the punishment ot
the authors or abettors, and were I to consult personal consider-
ations alone, I should continue in this course, repaying hatred
with contempt.

But public motives now compel me to a different conduct.
The designs of that faction to overturn our government, and with
it the great pillars of social security and happiness in this coun-
try, become every day more manifest ; and have of late acquired
a system which renders them formidable.

One principal engine for effecting the scheme is, by audacious
falsehoods to destroy the confidence of the people in all those
who are in any degree conspicuous among the supporters of the
government — an engine which has been employed in time past
with too much success, and which, unless counteracted in future,
is likely to be attended with very fatal consequences.

414 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [/Ex. 42.

To counteract it is therefore a duty to the community. Among
the specimens of this contrivance, that which is the subject of the
present letter demands peculiar atfention. A bolder calumny,
one more absolutely destitute of foundation, was never propa-
gated ; and its dangerous tendency needs no comment, being cal-
culated to inspire the belief that the independence and liberty of
the press are endangered by the intrigues of ambitious citizens
aided by foreign gold. In so flagrant a case the force of the laws
must be tried.

I therefore request, that you will take immediate measures
towards the prosecution of the persons who conduct the inclosed
paper.

With great confidence, I am, Sir,

Your obedient servant, &c.
Josiah O. Hoffman, Esq., Attorney-General.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON.

New-York, October 21st, 1799.

Dear Sir:

On my return from Trenton the day before yesterday, I found
your private letter of the 13th, as well as your public letter of
the 15th instt

The newspapers have probably informed you that poor Avery
is dead of the yellow fever.

The President has resolved to send the commissioners to
France, notwithstanding the change of affairs there. He is not
understood to have consulted either of his ministers ; certainly
not the Secretary of War or Finance ; all my calculations lead
me to regret the measure. I hope that it may not in its conse-
quences involve the United States in a war on the side of France
with her enemies.

My trust in Providence, which has so often interposed in our
favor, is my only consolation.

With great respect, &c.

jEt. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 415

HAMILTON TO LEAR.

New-York, January 2d, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 15th of December last, was delayed in
getting to hand by the circumstance of its having gone to New-
York, while I was at Philadelphia, and of its having arrived at
Philadelphia after I had set out on my return to New-York.

The very painful event which it announces had, previous to
the receipt of it, filled my heart with bitterness. Perhaps no
man in this community has equal cause with myself to deplore
the loss. I have been much indebted to the kindness of the
General, and he was an AUgis very essential to me. But regrets are
unavailing. For great misfortunes it is the business of reason to
seek consolation. The friends of General Washington have very
noble ones. If virtue can secure happiness in another world, he
is happy. In this, the seal is now put upon his glory. It is no
longer in jeopardy from the fickleness of fortune.

Adieu, &c.

P. S. — In whose hands are his papers gone ? Our very con-
fidential situation will not permit this to be a point of indiffer-
ence to me.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, January 5, 1800.

It is indeed a long time, my dear sir, since I have written to
you, and I feel my obligation to you for the continuance of your
correspondence, notwithstanding my delinquency.

Had it been true that I had left every thing else to follow the
drum, my delinquency would not have been so great. But our
military establishment offers too little inducement, and is too pre-

416 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Jftr. 42.

carious to have permitted a total dereliction of professional pur-
suits. The double occupation occasioned by these added military
duties, and the attention which circumstanees call me to pay to
collateral objects, engage my time more than ever, and leave me
less leisure to communicate with distant friends.

If the projected cipher was established, I should now have
very much to say to you. But for this the arrangement is not
yet mature. Soon, however, I hope to make it so, by forward-
ing to you the counterpart, which is in preparation. I must, how-
ever, give you some sketch of our affairs.

At home every thing is in the main well ; except as to the
perverseness and capriciousness of one, and the spirit of faction
of many.

Our measures from the first cause are too much the effect of
momentary impulse. Vanity and jealousy exclude all counsel.
Passion wrests the helm from reason.

The irreparable loss of an inestimable man removes a con-
trol which was felt, and was very salutary.

The leading friends of the government are in a sad dilemma.
Shall they risk a serious schism by an attempt to change ? Or
shall they annihilate themselves and hazard their cause by con-
tinuing to uphold those who suspect or hate them, and who are
likely to pursue a course for no better reason than because it is
contrary to that which they approve ?

The spirit of faction is abated nowhere. In Virginia it is
more violent than ever. It seems demonstrated that the leaders
there, who possess completely all the powers of the local govern-
ment, are resolved to possess those of the national, by the most
dangerous combinations ; and, if they cannot effect this, to resort
to the employment of physical force. The want of disposition in
the people to second them, will be the only preventive. It is
believed that it will be an effectual one.

In the two houses of Congress we have a decided majority.
But the dread of unpopularity is likely to paralyze it, and to pre-
vent the erection of additional buttresses to the Constitution, a
fabric which can hardly be stationary, and which will retrograde
if it cannot be made to advance.

jEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 417

In the mass of the people the dispositions are not bad. An
attachment to the system of peace continues. No project con-
trary to it could easily conciliate favor. Good-will towards the
government, in my opinion, predominates ; though a numerous
party is still actuated by an opposite sentiment, and some vague
discontents have a more diffused influence. Sympathy with the
French Revolution acts in a much narrower circle than formerly,
but the jealousy of monarchy, which is as actual as ever, still
furnishes a handle by which the factions mislead well meaning
persons.

In our councils there is no fixed plan. Some are for preserv-
ing and invigorating the navy and destroying the army. Some
among the friends of government for diminishing both on pecu-
niary considerations.

My plan is to complete the navy to the contemplated extent ;
say six ships of the line, twelve frigates, and twenty-four sloops
of war ; to make no alteration for the present as to the military
force ; and finally, to preserve the organs of the existing force,
reducing the men to a very moderate number. For this plan
there are various reasons that appear to me solid. I must doubt,
however, that it will finally prevail.

The recent depredations of British cruisers, sanctioned in vari-
ous instances by the courts, have rekindled in many hearts an
animosity which was fast being extinguished. Such persons think
they see in this circumstance a new proof that friendship towards
this country on the part of Great Britain, will always be mea-
sured by the scale of her success. A very perplexing conflict of
sensations is the result of this impression.

I must hasten to a conclusion. It was unnecessary for me to
have told you that for the loss of our illustrious friend every
heart is in mourning. Adieu.

God bless you.

P. S. "Who is to be Commander-in Chief?
Not the next in command. The appointment will probably
be deferred.
F 27

418 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

HAMILTON TO MRS. WASHINGTON.

January 12, 1800.

I did not think it proper, madam, to intrude amidst the first
effusions of your grief; but I can no longer restrain my sensibility
from conveying to you an imperfect expression of my affection-
ate sympathy in the sorrows you experience. No one better
than myself knows the greatness of your loss ; or how much
your excellent heart is formed to feel it in all its extent. Satis-
fied that you cannot receive consolation, I will attempt to offer
none. Resignation to the will of Heaven, which the practice
of your life insures, can alone alleviate the sufferings of so heart-
rending an affliction.

There can be few who equally with me participate in the
loss you deplore. In expressing this sentiment, I may, without
impropriety, allude to the numerous and distinguished marks of
confidence and friendship of which you have yourself been a
witness, but I cannot say in how many ways the continuance
of that confidence and friendship was necessary to me in fu-
ture relations. Vain, however, are regrets. From a calamity
which is common to a mourning nation, who can expect to be
exempt ? Perhaps it is even a privilege to have a claim to a
larger portion of it than others.

I will only add, madam, that I shall esteem it a real and a
great happiness if any future occurrence shall enable me to give
you proof of that respectful and cordial attachment with which
I have the honor to be,

Your obliged and very obedient servant,

A. H.

Mrs. Martha Washington.

^Et. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 419

HAMILTON TO BAYARD.

New-York, January 16, 1800.

I was glad to find, my dear sir, by your letter, that you had
not yet determined to go, with the consent of the federal party, in
support of Mr. Burr ; and that you were resolved to hold your-
self disengaged, till the moment of final decision. Your resolu-
tion to separate yourself in this instance from the federal party,
if your conviction shall be strong of the unfitness of Mr. Burr, is
certainly laudable. So much does it coincide with my ideas,
that if the party shall, by supporting Mr. Burr as President,
adopt him for their official chief, I shall be obliged to consider
myself as an isolated man. It will be impossible for me to recon-
cile with my motives of honor or policy, the continuing to be of
a party which, according to my apprehension, will have degraded
itself and the country.

I am sure, nevertheless, that the motives of many will be
good, and I shall never cease to esteem the individuals, though I
shall deplore a step which I fear experience will show to be a
very fatal one. Among the letters which I receive, assigning
the reasons, pro and con, for preferring Burr to J., I observe no
small exaggeration to the prejudice of the latter, and somethings
taken for granted as to the former, which are at least questionable.
Perhaps, myself the first, at some expense of popularity, to un-
fold the true character of Jefferson, it is too late for me to become
his apologist. Nor can I have any disposition to do it.

I admit that his politics are tinctured with fanaticism ; that
he is too much in earnest in his democracy ; that he has been a
mischievous enemy to the principal measures of our past admin-
istration ; that he is crafty and persevering in his objects ; that
he is not scrupulous about the means of success, nor very mind-
ful of truth, and that he is a contemptible hypocrite. But, it is
not true, as is alleged, that he is an enemy to the power of the
Executive, or that he is for confounding all the powers in the
House of Kepresentatives. It is a fact, which I have frequently
mentioned, that, while we were in the administration together,

420 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 42.

he was generally for a large construction of the Executive au-
thority, and not backward to act upon it in cases which coincided
with his views. Let it be added, that in his theoretic ideas, he
has considered as improper the participations of the Senate in
the Executive authority. I have more than once made the reflet
tion, that viewing himself as the reversioner, he was solicitous to
come into the possession of a good estate. Nor is it true, that
Jefferson is zealot enough to do any thing in pursuance of his
principles, which will contravene his popularity or his interest.
He is as likely as any man I know, to temporize ; to calculate
what will be likely to promote his own reputation and advantage,
and the probable result of such a temper is the preservation of
systems, though originally opposed, which being once established,
could not be overturned without danger to the person who did
it. To my mind, a true estimate of Mr. Jefferson's character
warrants the expectation of a temporizing, rather than a violent
system. That Jefferson has manifested a culpable predilection
for France, is certainly true ; but I think it a question, whether
it did not proceed quite as much from her popularity among us
as from sentiment ; and in proportion as that popularity is dimin-
ished, his zeal will cool. Add to this, that there is no fair
reason to suppose him capable of being corrupted, which is a se-
curity that he will not go beyond certain limits. It is not at all
improbable, that under the change of circumstances, Jefferson's
Gallicism has considerably abated.

As to Burr, these things are admitted, and indeed cannot be
denied, that he is a man of extreme and irregular ambition ; that
he is selfish to a degree which excludes all social affections; and
that he is decidedly profligate. But it is said, 1st, that he is artful
and dexterous to accomplish his ends ; 2d, that he holds no per-
nicious theories, but is a mere matter of fact man ; 3d, that his
very selfishness* is a guard against mischievous foreign predilec-
tions ; 4th, that his local situation has enabled him to appreciate
the utility of our commercial and fiscal systems, and the same
quality of selfishness will lead him to support and invigorate

* It is always very dangerous to look at the vices of men for good.

jEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 421

them ; 5th, that he is now disliked by the Jacobins ; that his ele-
vation will be a mortal stab to them, breed an invincible hatred
to him, and compel him to lean on the federalists ; 6th, that
Burr's ambition will be checked by his good sense, by the mani-
fest impossibility of succeeding in any scheme of usurpation, and
that, if attempted, there is nothing to fear from the attempt.
These topics are in my judgment more plausible than solid. As to
the first point, the fact must be admitted ; but those qualities
are objections rather than recommendations, when they are un-
der the direction of bad principles. As to the second point, too
much is taken for granted. If Burr's conversation is to be
credited, he is not very far from being a visionary. He has
quoted to me Connecticut as an example of the success of the demo-
cratic theory, and as authority, serious doubts whether it was not
a good one. It is ascertained, in some instances, that he has talked
perfect Godwinism. I have myself heard him speak with applause
of the French sj^stem, as unshackling the mind, and leaving it to its
natural energies ; and I have been present when he has con-
tended against banking systems* with earnestness, and with the
same arguments that Jefferson would use.

The truth is, that Burr is a man of a very subtile imagina-
tion, and a mind of this make is rarely free from ingenious whim-
sies. Yet I admit that he has no fixed theory, and that his
peculiar notions will easily give way to his interest. But is it a
recommendation to have no theory f Can that man be a syste-
matic or able statesman who has none? I believe not. No
general principles will hardly work much better than erroneous
ones.

As to the third point, it is certain that Burr, generally
speaking, has been as warm a partisan of France as Jefferson ;
that he has, in some instances, shown himself to be so with pas-
sion. But if it was from calculation, who will say that his calcu-
lations will not continue him so? His selfishness, f so far from

* Yet he has lately by a trick established a bank — a perfect monster in its prin-
ciples, but a very convenient instrument otprofit and influence.

■f Unprincipled selfishness is more apt to seek rapid gain in disorderly practices
than slow advantages i'rom orderly systems.

422 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 42.

being an obstacle, may be a prompter. If corrupt, as well as
selfish, he may be a partisan for gain. If ambitious, as well as
selfish, he may be a partisan for the sake of aid to his views.
No man has trafficked more than he in the floating passions of
the multitude. Hatred to Great Britain and attachment to France
in the public mind, will naturally lead a man of his selfishness,
attached to place and power, to favor France, and oppose Great
Britain. The Gallicism of many of our patriots is to be thus re-
solved, and, in my opinion, it is morally certain that Burr will
continue to be influenced by this calculation.

As to the fourth point, the instance I have cited with respect
to banks, proves that the argument is not to be relied upon.
If there was much in it, why does Chancellor Livingston maintain
that we ought not to cultivate navigation, but ought to let foreign-
ers be our carriers ? France is of this opinion too ; and Burr,
for some reason or other, will be very apt to be of the opinion
of France.

As to the fifth point, nothing can be more fallacious. It is
demonstrated by recent facts* that Burr is solicitous to keep upon
anti-federal ground to avoid compromitting himself by any engage-
ments! with the federalists. With or without such engagements
he will easily persuade his former friends, that he does stand on
that ground ; and after their first resentment, they will be glad
to rally under him. In the mean time he will take care not to
disoblige them ; and he will always court those among them who
are best fitted for tools. He will never choose to lean on good
men, because he knows that they will never support his bad pro-
jects, but instead of this, he will endeavor to disorganize both
parties, and to form out of them a third, composed of men fitted
by their characters to be conspirators and instruments of such
projects.

That this will be his future conduct may be inferred from his
past plan, and from the admitted quality of irregular ambition.
Let it be remembered that Mr. Burr has never appeared solicitous

* My letter to Mr. Morris states some of them,
t He trusts to their prejudices and hopes for support.

jEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 423

for fame, and that great ambition, unchecked by principle, or the
love of glory, is an unruly tyrant, which never can keep long in
a course which good men will approve. As to the last point, the
proposition is against the experience of all times. Ambition
without principle, never was long under the guidance of good
sense. Besides that, really, the force of Mr. Burr's understanding
is much overrated. He is far more cunning than wise — far more
dexterous than able.

[ Very, very confidential. — In ' my opinion he is inferior in real
ability to Jefferson. There are also facts against the supposition.
It is past all doubt, that he has blamed me for not having im-
proved the situation I once was in to change the government.
That when answered that this could not have been done without
guilt, he replied, "Les grands ames se soucient peu des petits
moraux ;" that when told the thing was never practicable, from
the genius and situation of the country, he answered, " that
depends on the estimate we form of the human passions, and of
the means of influencing them." Does this prove that Mr. Burr
would consider a scheme of usurpation as visionary ?]

The truth is, with great apparent coldness he is the most
sanguine man in the world. He thinks every thing possible to
adventure and perseverance : and though I believe he will fail, I
think it almost certain he will attempt usurpation, and the at-
tempt will involve great mischief. But there is one point of
view which seems to me decisive. If the anti-federalists, who
prevailed in the election, are left to take their own man, they re-
main responsible, and the federalists remain free, united, and
without stain, in a situation to resist, with effect, pernicious
measures. If the federalists substitute Burr, they adopt him, and
become answerable for him. Whatever may be the theory of the
case abroad and at home, (for so from the beginning will be taught,)
Mr. Burr must become in fact the man of our party ; and if he
acts ill, we must share in the blame and disgrace. By adopting
him, we do all we can to reconcile the minds of the federalists
to him, and we prepare them for the effectual operation of his

424 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 42

arts. He will, doubtless, gain many of them ; and the federalists
will become a disorganized and contemptible party. Can there
be any serious question between the policy of leaving the anti-
federalists to be answerable for the elevation of an objectionable
man, and that of adopting ourselves, and becoming answerable
for a man who, on all hands, is acknowledged to be a complete
Catiline ? 'Tis enough to state the question to indicate the an-
swer, if reason, not passion, presides in the decision.

You may communicate this and my former letter to discreet
and confidential friends.

Yours very truly,

A. H.

TOBIAS LEAR TO HAMILTON.

Mount Vernon, January 16th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 2d instant did not get to my hands till last
evening. I had anticipated the reasons for my letter of the 15th
December being so long in reaching you.

No one living besides yourself knows as well as I do the loss
which you have sustained by the General's death ; and I know
at the same time that no man under these circumstances could
find a greater resource in himself than you can.

Make yourself easy, my dear sir, respecting the confidential
communications which have passed between you and the General.
They have never passed under the eye of any person but him and
myself. Papers of this kind have always been kept separate from
the mass. To Judge Washington the General left by will all his
public and private papers. A few hours before his death he
observed to him — " I am about to change the scene. I cannot
last long. I believed from the first the attack would be fatal.
Do you arrange all my papers and accounts, as you know more
about these things than any one else."

,Et.42.] correspondence. 425

lear to hamilton.

January 23d, 1800.

Dear Sir :

Mrs. Washington has put into my hands your letter of the
12th instant, and requests me to acknowledge the receipt of it.

While she expresses the most grateful sensibility for your
kind and affectionate condolence, she is sensible that your loss,
as well as hers, is irreparable. In resigning herself to the dis-
pensation of Divine Providence, she looks up for consolation to
that Being, whose hand is the rod of affliction and the balm of
comfort.

The offer of your services, if in any occurrence you can be
useful to her, is received with gratitude and thankfulness ; and
she begs that you and Mrs. Hamilton will accept her prayers
and best wishes for your health and happiness.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

La Grange, 20th nivose, February 10th, 1800.

My Dear Hamilton :

I have not, since my return to France, received a line from
you ; yet I am sure you are affectionately interested in every
account which concerns me. The departure of Mr. Pichon for
the United States affords me a good opportunity to write. He
has much pleased me by his eager wishes and useful exertions
for a reconciliation between both countries.

He speaks of America and Americans in terms gratifying to
my feelings, and has expressed himself particularly desirous to
come to you with a letter from your old and constant friend.
You have, no doubt, received the news of the negotiation be-
tween the United States and France, and the intelligence must
have been personally given by one of the ministers who have

426 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

been employed in it. A continental peace, in Europe, is the re-
sult of a series of French victories. The .Ehine shall be our
frontier. The new Italian republic will probably be otherwise
disposed of. There is hope of a British negotiation. This gov-
ernment does earnestly wish to put every where an end to
the war. The late attempt against the life of Bonaparte, by
threatening the tranquillity of the citizens at large, has made
him more popular. It is evident in the moral state of the na-
tion, that none but the two extreme parties could have improved
the event, which being prepared by the terrorists, would have,
at least for some time, given them a tremendous chance of pow-
er, unless it had been taken by the garrison. You may con-
ceive how every honest man has been affected on hearing of a
plot, the object and the circumstances of which were equally
detestable. Oh, my dear friend, preserve your liberties ; do not
let party spirit and personal hatreds be carried further than the
proper balance in a wise, virtuous commonwealth, that you may
have nothing to do with the diseases, nor even with the medi-
cines. My whole heart is in the wishes I form for the continua-
tion of your political, social, personal freedom, dignity, and hap-
piness.

The opinion of several American friends, particularly Gen-
eral Washington and you, the situation of my French compa-
nions who had not, as I had, another country they could call
their own, did, as you know, keep me in Europe until the revo-
lution of Brumaire. The professions of liberty and justice which
accompanied it, made it decent and of course proper for me to
return to France. My companions have been erased from the
fatal list; my friends have re-entered the barrier of public
places, and in the mixture which Bonaparte has thought poli-
tical to make, he has given a majority to honest men. As to
myself, I was on the day of my arrival, and I am more and more
every day, determined for a life of perfect retirement. It has
been said that I was going to America as an ambassador. My
feelings and my habits in the United States I could not recon-
cile to the acting a foreign character however friendly, nor could
I with ease to myself, either within or without, put off my Ame-

,Et.42.] correspondence. 427

rican regimentals. I may be a happy visitor, and so I shall one
day or other, but am not fit to be an ambassador of the one
country to the other.

I feel better than it can be expected, which joined to the bad
health of my wife and her inability to cross the seas, puts the
matter on the footing of impossibility. It has also been reported
I was intended for, and several friends had wished me in the
public places of this constitutional establishment. I was totally
a stranger to the framing of it. I have earned my right to a life
of tranquillity, and am determined not to see myself be decoyed
or persuaded out of it. As to the command of armies, there are
now in France so many good generals, Bonaparte and Moreau
have been endowed with military abilities so prodigious and so
successful, that it were out of the question for me to think, at
this late hour of the war, of reassuming the staff. It was not
the case with George ; he serves in the army of Italy as an officer
of hussars, and has been lately engaged in the action of the pas-
sages of Rivers, which you will find in the papers.

I am, therefore, and shall remain a farmer. My wife, my two
daughters, son-in-law, and a little granddaughter, are with me in
a solitary country-place, upwards of forty miles from Paris, where
I am visited by some of my friends, and where I live very happy
amongst rural employments and rural studies, of which I am very
fond. My visits to the capital are rare, and short. I am on good
terms with the First Consul, my deliverer from Olmutz, who has
recalled my companions, and behaves very obligingly by me ; but
I do not in any degree, nor in any way, meddle with public
affairs. I wish Bonaparte may seek and find in the establish-
ment of true freedom the complement of his glory as well as the
security of his person and of a legal power — either for liberty the
safest and the nearest chance. As to foreign politics, the supe-
riority of France is unrivalled ; her resources are immense ; the
intentions of her government are sincere and generous ; and I
think particularly well disposed towards the United States — an
opinion of mine the less to be prejudiced, as I have no participa-
tion in her councils.

My abode is the inheritance of my unfortunate mother-in-law.

428 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

"What remained of my property when I left France has been, for
the greatest part, sold and dilapidated. I have many debts to
pay — yet will I in the end have enough for my family and my-
self to live upon ; not enough, however, to manage my farm in
the elegant style which would suit my agricultural taste. But
whatever be my private circumstances, I shall stick to the plough
and to a life of retirement.

Now, my dear friend, may I hope that you will, in return,
give me minute details of every thing that concerns you. Be
pleased to remind me to our brother soldiers who have not for-
gotten their long absent comrade ; to my American friends about
you ; present my affectionate respects to Mrs. Hamilton and her
sister. I trust this letter, which I send by post to L'Orient, will
arrive safely with Mr. Pichon. Government has great confidence
in him ; and I have been much pleased with his acquaintance.
May the connection between the two countries be improved ; as
it is natural and easy to do it, for the mutual interest, honor, and
happiness of both.

With all the sentiments which have for so long a time at-
tatched me to you, I am, my dear Hamilton,

Your friend,

La Fayette.

Mr. Pichon has lately married a young and amiable lady, who
accompanies him. I have foretold her she will be very well
liked in America, and I do not fear to be mistaken in my pre-
diction.

HAMILTON TO SWAN.

February 17th, 1800.

Sir:

I have been applied to by an old soldier, who served during
the revolutionary war, on the subject of pay which he states to
be still due to him.

JEt. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 429

He mentions to me, that he enlisted for the war in the regi-
ment commanded by Colonel Livingston, and that he was trans-
ferred in the course of the war from that regiment to the one
under Colonel Weisenfelt. His claim is to two years' pay for his
services in the first of these regiments, and to nine months' pay
for his services in the last. He states, that he applied to the pay-
masters, but was prevented from obtaining his claim by having
been returned among the dead. You will be pleased to inform
me whether the door is yet open for claims of this nature. The
person states, that he should have applied at an earlier day, had
he known that he was returned among the dead. This circum-
stance came to his knowledge but about four years since.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, February 27th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

When will Congress probably adjourn ? Will any thing be
settled as to a certain election f Will my presence be requisite as
to this or any other purpose, and when ?

I observe more and more, that by the jealousy and envy of
some, the miserliness of others, and the concurring influence of
all foreign powers, America, if she attains to greatness, must creep
to it. Will it be so ? Slow and sure is no bad maxim. Snails
are a wise generation.

P. S. Unless for indispensable reasons, I had rather not
come.

430 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 42.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON.

La Grange, March 7th, 1800.

My Dear Hamilton:

Madame de Fleury, widow to our gallant friend, having impart-
ed to me her intention to address the government of the United
States, is pleased to think that letters from me, and one partic-
ularly to you, might serve her purpose. I am sure the American
citizens, and above all our brother soldiers, need not being re-
minded of the brilliant and useful services which the late Gen.
Fleury had the happiness to render. Unfortunate it is for Madame
Fleury that her application can no more be patronized by him
whose lamentable loss to mankind, is to you, to all his personal
friends, to me, his adopted and loving son, so desolately deplor-
able. The great and deserved share you had in his confidence,
the obligations which Col. Fleury has often been under to your
esteem and friendship, entitle you to receive and promote any
proper demand that the worthy widow finds herself by her situ-
ation and the merits of her husband warranted to present.
I am most affectionately, dear Hamilton, yours,

La Fayette.

GEN. LEE TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 5th, 1800.

* * * * It gives me pain to find you so despondent. Cer
tainly you cannot regard the calumnies of your enemies. This
to them would be high gratification. Nor ought you to despond
of your country. We have heretofore prospered when surround-
ed by infinitely greater difficulties, in contributing to which pros-
perity no man alive has done more than yourself.

Be then more like yourself, and resist to victory all your foes.
It would give me great pleasure to see you here, and I had ex-

At. 42.] CORRESPONDENCE. 431

pected that official duty would have brought you among us a
second time during the winter. "We are now engaged in the little
pitiful business of the Irish murderer Nash, and I fear much of
our time will be spent in this dirty affair.

Yours affectionately,

H. Lee.

HAMILTON TO LEE.

Nkw-York, March 7th, 1800.

My Dear Sir :

The letters to which you allude in yours of the 5th instant,
have never been seen by me. The truth is, that I pay very little
attention to such newspaper ebullitions, unless some friend points
out a particular case which may demand attention.

But be assured once for all, that it is not easy for these mis-
creants to impair the confidence in, and friendship for you, which
are long habits of my mind ; so that you may join me in looking
with indifference upon their malicious efforts.

You have mistaken a little an observation in my last. Be-
lieve me, that I feel no despondency of any sort. As to the
country, it is too young and vigorous to be quacked out of its
political health — and as to myself, I feel that I stand on ground
which, sooner or later, will insure me a triumph over all my
enemies.

But in the mean time I am not wholly insensible of the in-
justice which I from time to time experience, and of which, in
my opinion, I am at this moment the victim.

Perhaps my sensibility is the effect of an exaggerated estimate
of my services to the United States ; but on such a subject a man
will judge for himself; and if he is misled by his vanity, he must
be content with the mortifications to which it exposes him. In
no event, however, will any displeasure I may feel, be at war
with the public interest. This in my eyes is sacred. Adieu.

432 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

HAMILTON TO WILLIAM SMITH.

New-York, March 11th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

You will probably have heard, before this reaches you, that I
had appointed Captain Izard one of my aids. I part with him
to you with all the reluctance that a strong impression of his
merit can inspire. Yet I do not resist his going, because our
military prospects in general, and mine in particular, are very
uncertain.

Though we have had no communication since your departure,
you may be assured that I have not ceased to interest myself
in your welfare. If you go to Constantinople, I wish you good
luck. It is, perhaps, past the time for you to play the false Ibra-
him. You see I am in a humor to laugh. What can we do bet-
ter in this best of all possible worlds'? Should you even be shut up
in the seven towers, or get the plague, if you are a true philoso-
pher you will consider this only as laughing matter. Adieu.

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New- York, March 12, 1800.

Sir:

I have written to you heretofore respecting Mr. Benjamin
Wells, who acted as an excise officer, in the western part of
Pennsylvania, at the time of the disturbances there. But this
gentleman has just arrived here, and requests me to mention his
case again to you. I comply with his request.

It appeared from what I saw and heard at the time, that Mr.
Wells distinguished himself by persevering exertion to carry
the laws into effect. He was of course marked out as an object
of vengeance. The losses which he sustained were very con-
siderble, and proceeded from the zeal he had displayed in

jEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 433

support of the government. To repair his losses and reward his
zeal, is therefore a duty imposed on the government by the prin-
ciples both of justice and policy. It is imposed by justice — for
the injuries were committed by persons in disguise, or under cir-
cumstances which render it impossible to discover the offenders.
It is vain, therefore, to refer Mr. AVells to the individuals by whose
acts he suffered. This is to tell him that his losses will never be
repaired.

Policy speaks in this case the same language with justice.
Mr. Wells suffered in consequence of his efforts to support the
government, and of his attention to duty. Will the government
then refuse to make him compensation? To do so, will be to
violate the plainest maxims of policy, as it will effectually damp
the zeal of public officers in every future case of difficulty. It
is not to be expected that individuals will expose their persons
to violence, and their property to destruction, in support of a
government that has not generosity sufficient to reward those who
suffer in its cause.

There appears to me to be no doubt of the meritorious exer-
tions of Mr. AVells, even if there were some doubt, yet the excel-
lent effect which the measure is calculated to produce on public
officers, will prove a full compensation for the money that may
be advanced. I recollect to have mentioned to Mr. Wells, and
other persons in the same capacity, that I considered the govern-
ment as bound to indemnify them. So far, therefore, as my opin-
ion could pledge the government, it was pledged. In giving
this opinion I thought I was promoting the best interests of the
nation, and it appears to me that the government will very wide-
ly mistake its policy in refusing to allow these men all reason-
able claims.
434 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

HAMILTON TO GEN. PINCKNEY.
(private.)

New-York, April 10, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I am perfectly content with the delay of communication to
the Eev. Mr. Hill till the effect of your experiments with the
Secretary of War shall be known.

I have heard nothing as to the impression made by our mission
to France upon the combined powers ; but I cannot doubt that
it is a disagreeable one, and certainly the course of events lately
has not said much for the good policy of the measure. This cal-
culation of the President on a general peace, as the main argu-
ment for what was done, proves at least to be as fallacious as I
ventured to predict to him just after he had resolved to consum-
mate the error. Capt. Izard has accepted his appointment under
Mr. Smith, and has sailed for Europe.

Mrs. H. and myself have learned with great pleasure the

amendment of Mrs. P.'s health. Offer her and accept yourself

our felicitations and best wishes.

Adieu, &c.

Dear Sir:
* * *

CARROLL TO HAMILTON.

Annapolis, 18th April, 1800.

* We have strange reports circulated among us
respecting the prevalence of Jacobinical principles in your State.
It is asserted with confidence by the anti-federal party here, that
all your electors will vote for Mr. Jefferson as President. If
such an event should really happen, it is probable he will be
chosen. Of such a choice, the consequences to this country may
be dreadful. Mr. Jefferson is too theoretical and fanciful a
statesman to direct with steadiness and prudence the affairs of
this extensive and growing confederacy. He might safely try

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 435

his experiments, without much inconvenience in the little re-
public of St. Marino, but his fantastic tricks would dissolve this
Union. Perhaps the miseries of France, and more especially the
government of Buonaparte, may have weaned him from his pre-
dilection for revolutions. I once saw a letter of his, in which,
amongst several others, was contained this strange sentiment, —
" that to preserve the liberties of a people, a revolution once in
a century was necessary." A man of this way of thinking may
be said to be fond of revolutions ; yet, possibly, were he the
chief magistrate, he might not wish for a revolution during his
presidency.

I beg my respects to Mrs. Hamilton, and to be kindly re-
membered to General Schuyler.

I am, with very great regard and esteem,

Dear Sir, your most humble servant,

Charles Carroll, of Carrollton.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

April 25, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I send you the paragraph of a newspaper just published. I
hope it is an electioneering lie ; but as it is likely to do mischief;
I will thank you, by return of post, to inform me whether you
have any thing to confirm or refute, and particularly whether
you have heard of the list with which Commodore Truxton's
name is connected.

{Copy of inclosed paragraph.)

New Havk.v, April J5.

Capt. James Stewart, of Chatham, in the brig Sally, arrived at New London
on the 4th instant, from Jamaica, brings the most unpleasant accounts from that
quarter. He states that the British capture all American vessels that afford the

436 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

slightest pretext for condemnation, and impress all their seamen without discrim-
ination. Capt. Stewart was taken by his majesty's ship Acasto, of 44 guns, the
commander of which, Edward Fellows, came on board the Sally himself, ordered
Capt. Stewart's chest open, and, with his own hands, took out 4250 dollars, be-
sides plundering the captain of other articles.

On the arrival of the brig at Kingston, every man on board, except the captain
and boy, all natives of Connecticut, were impressed, and are left there. Capt. Na-
than Allyn, of Groton, had all his people impressed, with their protections in their
hands. Capt. Waterman, of New-York, was treated in the same manner, with
many others. And Mr. Savage, the American agent in Kingston, informed Capt.
Stewart that he had forwarded to the Secretary of State, by Commodore Truxton,
an attested list of the names of one thousand and one bona fide American seamen,
who have lately been impressed by the British in that single port. American
vessels and cargoes were constantly condemned in that place, a full account of
which must soon be made public. Several masters and supercargoes of con-
demned vessels came home with Capt. Stewart, who, besides the general usage,
was himself treated with personal incivilities and contempt.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

May 4, 1800.

Dear Sir:

You have heard of the loss of our election in the city of New
York. This renders it too probable that the electors of Presi-
dent for this State will be anti-federal. If so, the policy which
I was desirous of pursuing at the last election, is now recom-
mended by motives of additional cogency.

To support Adams and Pinclcney equally is the only thing
that can possibly save us from the fangs of Jefferson.

It is, therefore, essential that the federalists should not sepa-
rate without coming to a distinct and solemn concert to pursue
this course bona fide.

Pray attend to this, and let me speedily hear from you that
it is done.

At. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 4o7

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 7th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I have this moment received yours of the 4th. I have already
detailed to you what was done on Saturday evening. On this
subject our friend D. is not perfectly right. I have had a con-
versation with him this morning. The view he takes of the sub-
ject is this. He says, that however those who have an opportu-
nity of personal observation may esteem the character of Mr.
Adams, as he is viewed by the great majority of federalists, he
is the most popular man in the United States, and deemed best
qualified to perform the duties of President ; that should an
agreement to support, equally, him and General Pinckney, ulti-
mate in the election of the latter, it will be supposed to result
from an insidious intention, in a certain description of men, to
displace him from the office of President ; that this will crumble
the federal party to atoms. He says, indeed, that when it shall
be reduced to an absolute certainty, that we have no alternative
but to pursue this course, or submit to the election of Jefferson,
he shall not hesitate to adopt the former. That this crisis exists,
is to my mind absolutely certain. He, however, says, that fed-
eral electors may be chosen in South Carolina, that Maryland
may give us an unanimous vote, and that several electors may be
chosen in New-York ; and should all these circumstances take
place, votes may be thrown away in Massachusetts without en-
dangering the election of Jefferson.

You cannot but perceive the mischievous tendency of these
observations from a man of D.'s weight of character. This I os^>{

pected from , but not from him. At any rate, we shall

have infinite difficulties to contend with. I did not expect to
have them either increased or multiplied from this quarter ; and,
if possible, he must be reclaimed. Every thing I can do shall
be attempted. Are you in such habits as to authorize an ad-
dress to him on the subject? Of course, he must not know that
I have suggested the idea to you.

438 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

Marshall has this morning been nominated as Secretary of "War.
He was never consulted, and had no intimation that McHenry
was to retire. He will not accept. I hope Carrington may be
brought in. I have, as usual, written this in the house.

I am ever yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO JAY.

New-York, May 7th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

You have been informed of the loss of our election in this
city. It is also known that we have been unfortunate through-
out Long Island and in Westchester. According to the returns
hitherto, it is too probable that we lose our Senators for this
district.

The moral certainty therefore is, that there will be an anti-
federal majority in the ensuing legislature; and the very high
probability is, that this will bring Jefferson into the chief magis-
tracy, unless it be prevented by the measure which I shall now
submit to your consideration, namely, the immediate calling to-
gether of the existing legislature.

I am aware that there are weighty objections to the measure,
but the reasons for it appear to me to outweigh the objections ;
and in times like these in which we live, it will not do to be over-
scrupulous. It is easy to sacrifice the substantial interests of society
by a strict adherence to ordinary rules.

In observing this, I shall not be supposed to mean, that any
thing ought to be done which integrity will forbid, but merely
that the scruples of delicacy and propriety, as relative to a com-
mon course of things, ought to yield to the extraordinary nature
of the crisis. They ought not to hinder the taking of a legal and
constitutional step to prevent an atheist in religion, and a fanatic
in politics, from getting possession of the helm of state.

You, sir, know in a great degree the anti-federal party ; but

jEt.43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 439

I fear you do not know them as well as I do. It is a composi-
tion, indeed, of very incongruous materials ; but all tending to
mischief— some of them, to the overthrow of the government,
by stripping it of its due energies ; others of them, to a revo-
lution, after the manner of Bonaparte. I speak from indubi-
table facts, not from conjectures and inferences. In proportion
as the true character of the party is understood, is the force of
the considerations which urge to every effort to disappoint it;
and it seems to me, that there is a very solemn obligation to em-
ploy the means in our power.

The calling of the legislature will have for its object the
choosing of electors by the people in districts ; this (as Pennsylvania
will do nothing) will insure a majority of votes in the United
States for a federal candidate. The measure will not fail to be
approved by all the federal party ; while it will, no doubt, be
condemned by the opposite. As to its intrinsic nature, it is jus-
tified by unequivocal reasons of public safety.

The reasonable part of the world will, I believe, approve it.
They will see it as a proceeding out of the common course, but
warranted by the particular nature of the crisis, and the great
cause of social order.

If done, the motive ought to be frankly avowed. In your
communication to the legislature, they ought to be told that
temporary circumstances had rendered it probable that, without
their interposition, the executive authority of the general govern-
ment would be transferred to hands hostile to the system hereto-
fore pursued with so much success, and dangerous to the peace,
happiness, and order of the country ; that under this impression,
from facts convincing to your own mind, you had thought it
your duty to give the existing legislature an opportunity of de-
liberating whether it would not be proper to interpose, and en-
deavor to prevent so great an evil by referring the choice of
electors to the people distributed into districts.

In weighing this suggestion, you will doubtless bear in mind
that popular governments must certainly be overturned, and,
while they endure, prove engines of mischief, if one party will
call to its aid all the resources which vice can give, and if the

440 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [ Ms. 43.

other (however pressing the emergency) confines itself within all
the ordinary forms of delicacy and decorum.

The legislature can be brought together in three weeks, so
that there will be full time for the object; but none ought to be
lost.

Think well, my dear sir, of this proposition — appreciate the
extreme danger of the crisis ; and I am unusually mistaken in
my view of the matter, if you do not see it right and expedient
to adopt the measure.

Respectfully and affectionately yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

May 8th, 1800.
I thank you, my dear sir, for your letter of the 5th instant,
which was received yesterday. The measure you mention has
been attempted, but without much hope of success.

Yet our friends are to-day in good spirits. The accounts
from the northward, apparently authentic, give us the strong
hope of still having a majority in our legislature. But, be this
as it may, our welfare depends absolutely on a faithful adherence
to the plan which has been adopted. New- York, if federal, will
not go for Mr. Adams unless there shall be as firm a pledge as
the nature of the thing will admit, that Mr. Pinckney will be
equally supported in the northern States.

Yours truly,

A. H.

jEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 441

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, May 10th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I am very sorry for the information contained in your letter
of the 7th. But I am not intimate enough with Dexter to put
myself upon paper to him.

If on his return I can catch him at New- York, I shall have
a particular conversation with him.

He is, I am persuaded, much mistaken as to the opinion en-
tertained of Mr. Adams by the federal party. Were I to deter-
mine from my own observation, I should say most of the most
influential men of that party consider him as a very unfit and in-
capable character.

For my individual part, my mind is made up. I will never
more be responsible for him by my direct support, even though
the consequence should be the election of Jefferson.

If we must have an enemy at the head of the government, let
it be one whom we can oppose, and for whom we are not respon-
sible, who will not involve our party in the disgrace of his fool-
ish and bad measures. Under Adams, as under Jefferson, the
government will sink. The party in the hands of whose chief it
shall sink, will sink with it ; and the advantage will all be on
the side of his adversaries.

"Pis a notable expedient for keeping the federal party to-
gether, to have at the head of it a man who hates and is despised
by those men of it who, in time past, have been its most efficient
supporters. If the cause is to be sacrificed to a weak and per-
verse man, I withdraw from the party, and act upon my own
ground, never certainly against my principles, but in pursuance
of them my own way. I am mistaken if others will not do the
same.

The only way to prevent a fatal schism in the federal party,
is to support General Pinckney in good earnest.

If I can be perfectly satisfied that Adams and Pinckney will
be upheld in the East with entire good faith, on the ground of

442 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

conformity, I will, wherever my influence may extend, pursue
the same plan.

If not, I will pursue Mr. Pinckney as my single object.
Adieu.

Yours truly, &c.

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 13th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Yours of the 10th I received yesterday. The events in the
executive departments you know. Their effects on the federal
party are such as you can as well determine by reflection as I
could detail. Would to heaven you was here, but it is too late.

There shall be a meeting of such men who remain here, and
who can be perfectly confided in ; I will inform you of the re-
sult. Every tormenting passion rankles in the bosom of that
weak and frantic old man, but I have good reason for believing
that Pickering and McHenry have been sacrificed as peace offer-
ings. I am at present of opinion, that no decided measures
should be taken till I see you.

Very sincerely yours, &c.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

War Department, 15th May, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I have the honor to communicate to you, that on the 6th
instant, I requested of the President of the United States permis-
sion to resign the office of Secretary for the Department of War.

To the above request I added a proposition, that my resigna-
tion be considered to take place on the 1st of Jungnext, in order

iET. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 443

that I might be for a short time in a convenient situation to ex-
plain to him or to my successor, any of the measures taken by me
as Secretary of "War that might require elucidation, and also the
inducing motives to some of them, which were best known to
myself.

The President answered, "that my requests were reasonable,
and readily agreed."

I am making my arrangements for the removal of myself and
family to Baltimore, and shall not continue in an official situa-
tion longer (if so long) than the 1st of June.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, May 15, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

Last Saturday morning I received a summons to resign, and
a desire that I would myself name the day. But I did not in-
cline to accept this insidious favor. The President desired my
answer on Monday morning, and I sent it, mentioning that some
important matters would render my services useful in the office,
till about the close of the present quarter; but that " I did not
feel it to be my duty to resign." In an hour I received a per-
emptory discharge, and on Monday evening I quitted the office,
after working hard, and completing all the arrangements for the
second census, pursuant to a law passed in this session.

Mr. G. Morris was to set off this morning for New-York. He
will communicate an account of recent occurrences. I am
always gratified when there happens a coincidence of my thoughts
with yours. I have been contemplating the importance of a bold
and frank exposure of Adams ; perhaps I may have it in my
power to furnish some facts.

When the chief clerk in the office brought me your letter, he
told me that Mr. Lee broke it open, the clerk standing by ; but
Mr. Lee said he had not read it ; it was not addressed to me as

444 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 43.

Secretary of State. Mr. Lee, when he was going to take charge
of the office, voluntarily assured me that private letters to me
should not be opened, or if opened inadvertently, that the
moment they were discovered to be private, they should not be
read, but half a minute was enough to read yours ; yet I do not
think he would act so dishonorably as to read it, or if any ex-
pression struck his eye, I hope he has honor enough to conceal
it. I shall direct the postmaster immediately to send letters ad-
dressed to me directly to my house.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New- York, July 1st, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I send you the inclosed ; if any good use can be made of it
you will do it. I have been in Massachusetts, New Hampshire,
and Rhode Island. There is little doubt of federal electors in
all ; but there is considerable doubt of a perfect union in favor
of Pinckney.

The leaders of the first class are generally right, but the
leaders of the second class are too much disposed to be wrong.
It is essential to inform the most discreet of this description of
the facts which denote unfitness in Mr. Adams. I have promised
confidential friends a correct statement. To be able to give it I
must derive aid from you ; and any thing you may write shall
be, if you please, returned to you. But you must be exact, and
much in detail. The history of the mission to France, from the
first steps connected with the declarations in the speech to Con-
gress down to the last proceedings, is very important.

I have serious thoughts of writing to the President to tell
him that I have heard of his having repeatedly mentioned the
existence of a British faction in this country, and alluded to me
as one of that faction, requesting that he will inform me of the
truth of this information, and if true, what have been the grounds

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 445

of the suggestion. His friends are industrious in propagating
the idea to defeat the efforts to unite for Pinckney. The inquiry
I propose may furnish an antidote, and vindicate character.
What think you of this idea? For my part I can set malice at
defiance.

HAMILTON TO CAEROLL.

New- York, July 1st, 1800.

Deae Sie:

I yesterday returned from an excursion through three of the
four eastern States, and found your letter of the 18th of April.
It is very necessary that the true and independent friends of the
government should communicate and understand each other at
the present verj^ embarrassed *and dangerous crisis of public af-
fairs. I am glad, therefore, of the opportunity which your letter
affords me of giving you some explanations which may be useful.
They are given without reserve, because the times forbid tempo-
rising, and I hold no opinions which I have any motives to dis"
semble. As to the situation of this State, with regard to the
election of President, it is perfectly ascertained that on a joint bal-
lot of the two houses of our legislature, the opposers of the go-
vernment will have a majority of more than twenty ; a majority
which can by no means be overcome. Consequently all our
electors will vote for Mr. Jefferson, and Mr. Burr. I think there
is little cause to doubt that the electors in the four eastern States
will all be federal.

The only question seems to be as to Ehode Island, where
there is some division, and a state of things rather loose. Gov-
ernor Fenner, as far as he may dare, will promote the interest of
Jefferson.

A considerable diversion in favor of the opposition has lately
been made in New Jersey. But the best and best informed men
there entertain no doubt that all her electors will still be federal,
and I believe this opinion may be relied upon.

446 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 43.

I go no farther south, as I take it for granted your means of
calculation with regard to that quarter are, at least, equal to
mine.

The result of a comprehensive view of the subject, seems to
me to be, that the event is uncertain, but that the probability is,
that a universal adherence of the federalists to Pinckney will
exclude Jefferson.

On this point there is some danger, though the greatest num-
ber of strong minded men in New England are not only satisfied
of the expediency of supporting Pinckney, as giving the best
chance against Jefferson, but even prefer him to Adams ; yet, in
the body of that people there is a strong personal attachment to
this gentleman, and most of the leaders of the second class are
so anxious for his re-election that it will be difficult to convince
them thap there is as much danger of its failure as there unques-
tionabljis, or to induce them faithfully to co-operate in Mr. Pinck-
ney, notwithstanding their common and strong dread of Jefferson.

It may become advisable, in order to oppose their fears to^heir
'prejudices, for the middle States to declare that Mr. Adams will not
be supported at all, when, seeing his success desperate, they would
be driven to adhere to Pinckney. In this plan New Jersey, and
even Connecticut, may be brought to concur. For both these
States have generally lost confidence in Mr. Adams.

But this will be best decided by future events and elucida-
tions. In the mean time it is not advisable that Maryland should
be too deeply pledged to the support of Mr. Adams.

That this gentleman ought not to be the object of the federal
wish, is, with me, reduced to demonstration. His administration
has already very materially disgraced and sunk the government.
There are defects in his character which must inevitably continue
to do this more and more. And if he is supported by the federal
party, his party must in the issue fall with him. Every other
calculation will, in my judgment, prove illusory.

Doctor Franklin, a sagacious observer of human nature, drew
this portrait of Mr. Adams : — " He is always honest, sometimes
great, but often mad." I subscribe to the justness of this picture,
adding as to the first trait of it this qualification — " as far as a

iET. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 447

man excessively vain and jealous, and ignobly attached to place
can be."

"With great consideration and esteem,

I am, dear Sir, &c.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Washington, July 7, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I have before me your favor of the 1st instant. I have some
knowledge of the circumstance referred to in General Schuyler's
letter. It is a fact that Mr. Shoemaker has either seen such a
letter from Mr. Jefferson as is described, or received such evi-
dence that a letter of the kind existed, as made a strong impres-
sion on his mind. It has, I know, been proposed to make appli-
cation to Mr. Smith for the letter, but I presume the idea has not
been pursued. Mr. Rawle can, I believe, inform what Mr.
Shoemaker can say.

I will readily furnish the statement you desire, from a firm
conviction, that the affairs of this government will not only be
ruined, but that the disgrace will attach to the federal party, if
they permit the re-election of Mr. Adams. I am, however, as
yet unsettled, and must previously arrange my papers and dispose
of some urgent official business.

It is necessary to give a proper direction to the newspapers,
which are at present filled with the most disgusting nonsense.
The cause of the federalists has declined ; their system has been
reversed, honest men have been calumniated and discredited, and
no apology or explanation has been offered to the public.

It will be extraordinary, if these strange things are permitted
to be slurred over, by attributing them to State necessity, the firm-
ness of the President, his independence of both parties, &c, &c.
A few paragraphs, exposing the folly of such publications, will

448 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 43.

produce an admirable effect : they will produce replies, which
will gradually and very naturally lead to the public discussion
which has become inevitable.

I approve entirely of your writing to the President for an
explanation of what he means by the frequent allusions to a
British party or faction. Indeed every thing which decorum
will permit, to render the present state of our affairs intelligible,
is, in my opinion, proper.

Nothing is more disgusting to me, than the praise bestowed
upon the President, for his ivise and sincere pursuit of peace, accord-
ing to the example of General Washington. A great number of
public men have heard the President declare, that he did not
believe that the French government was sincere in making what
are called the overtures upon which the last mission was founded.
Nay, more, the President has declared that a treaty was neither
to be expected nor desired. "While Mr. Ellsworth and Mr. Davis
were at Trenton last autumn, and after the instructions had
received the President's sanction, he said that the expulsion of
the envoys from France with circumstances of personal indignity,
would be favorable to the interests of the United States.

I shall ever believe that the last mission to France was by
the President considered as a game of diplomacy, and that it was#
his intention to gain popularity at home, by appearing to be
desirous of peace, while he exhibited his talents as a great states-
man, by outwitting the French in negotiation. The wisdom and
cordiality, of which Mr. Thomas speaks in his circular letter, was
in fact nothing but a sort of diplomatic skill, of which the Presi-
dent justly accuses his Secretaries of being unacquainted. You
may rely upon my co-operation in every reasonable measure for
effecting the election of General Pinckney. Mr. Carroll, of this
State, is, I believe, right ; but I wish you to write to him as soon
as possible.

JJt.43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 440

HAMILTON TO ADAMS.

New-York, August 1, 1800.

Sir:

It has been repeatedly mentioned to me that }7ou have on
different occasions asserted the existence of a British faction in
this country, embracing a number of leading or influential
characters of the federal party, as usually denominated ; and
that you have sometimes named me, at others plainly alluded to
me, as one of this description of persons. And I have likewise
been assured, that, of late, some of your warm adherents, for
electioneering purposes, have employed a corresponding Ian
guage. I must, sir, take it for granted that you cannot have
made such assertions or insinuations without being willing to
avow them, and to assign the reasons to a party who may con-
ceive himself injured by them. I therefore trust that you will
not deem it improper, that I a]»ply directly to yourself, to ascer-
tain from you, in reference to your own declarations, whether the
information I have received is correct or not ; and if correct,
what are the grounds upon which you have founded the sugges-
tion.

John Adams, Esq.. President of the United States.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, August 3d, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I have, two days since, written to Mr. Adams a respectful
letter on the subject I heretofore mentioned to you. Occupation
at court prevented its being done sooner.

But I wait with impatience for the statement of facts which
you promised me. It is plain that, unless we give our reasons
in some form or other, Mr. Adams's personal friends, seconded by
f 29

450 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

the Jacobins, will completely run its down in the public opinion.
Your name, in company with mine, that of T. Pickering, &c, is
in full circulation, as one of the British faction of which Mr.
Adams has talked so much.

I have serious thoughts of giving to the public my opinion
respecting Mr. Adams, with my reasons, in a letter to a friend,
with my signature. This seems to me the most authentic way
of conveying the information, and best suited to the plain deal-
ing of my character. There are, however, reasons against it ;
and a very strong one is, that some of the principal causes of my
disapprobation proceed from yourself, and other members of the
administration, who would be understood to be the sources of
my information, whatever cover I might give the thing.

What say you to this measure? I could predicate it on the
fact that I am abused by the friends of Mr. Adams, who ascribe
my opposition to pique and disappointment ; and could give it
the shape of a defence of myself.

You have doubtless seen the#Aurora publication of Treasury
documents, and the manner in which my name is connected
with it. These publications do harm with the ignorant, who are
the greatest number. I have thoughts of instituting an action
of slander, to be tried by a struck jury, against the editor. If I
do it, I should claim you and the supervisors, collectors, and
loan officers of all the States, from Maryland to New York, in-
clusively, as witnesses, to demonstrate completely the malice and
falsity of the accusation. What think you of this ? You see I
am in a very belligerent humor.

But I remember that, at the outset, before the sums payable
for interest, pensions, &c, were ascertained, I placed the money
in the hands of the paying officers, upon estimate, and that, to
avoid disappointment, I made the estimates large. Pray look
into this, and see how far it may give any color to th^ calumny.

Let me hear from you soon.

^Et. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 451

HAMILTON TO BAYAED.

New-York, August 6th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

The president of Columbia College, in this city, has resigned,
and we are looking out for a successor. Dr. Wharton has oc-
curred to me as a character worthy of inquiry ; and the great
confidence I feel in your judgment and candor, induces me to
have recourse to you.

We are extremely anxious to have a well-qualified man, as
this is the only thing wanted to render our institution very
flourishing. We have two very good professors — one of the
languages, the other of the mathematics and natural philosophy ;
and we have a professor of chemistry — this branch having been
lately made a part of the academic course — together with better
funds, as I believe, than any similar institution in the United States.
I mention these particulars to impress you with the importance
of our college to the cause of literature, and with the duty
which thence results of peculiar circumspection and care in the
choice of a president. It is essential that he be a gentleman in
his manners, as well as a sound and polite scholar ; that his
moral character be irreproachable ; that he possess energy of
body and mind ; and be of a disposition to maintain discipline
without undue austerity ; and, in the last place, that his politics
be of the right sort. I beg you to inform me particularly how
far Dr. AVharton meets this description, in what, if any thing, he
fails. -You will, of course, see the propriety of mentioning noth-
ing about this inquiry. In the present eventful crisis of our
affairs, a mutual communication of informations and opinions
among influential men of the federal party, may be attended
with some advantage to their cause. Under this impression I
shall give you a summary of the state of things north of the
Delaware ; south of it, your information is likely to be as good
as mine ; and, accordingly, I shall request your view of what is
to be expected from that quarter. In New Hampshire there is
no doubt of federal electors ; but there is a decided partiality for

452 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

Mr. Adams. I took pains to possess Governor Gilman, whose
influence is very preponderating, of the errors and defects of Mr.
Adams, and of the danger that no candidate can prevail, by mere
federal strength ; consequently of the expediency and necessity of
unanimously voting for Gen. Pinckney (who, in the south, may
get some anti-federal votes) as the best chance of excluding Mr.
Jefferson. The Governor appeared convinced of the soundness
of these views, and cautiously gave me to expect his co-operation.
Yet I do not count upon New Hampshire for more than two
things — one an unanimous vote for Mr. Adams; the other, no
vote for any anti-federalist. In Massachusetts, almost all the
leaders of the first class are dissatisfied with Mr. Adams, and
enter heartily into the policy of supporting General Pinckney.
But most of the leaders of the second class are attached to Mr.
Adams, and fearful of jeopardizing his election by promoting that
of General Pinckney ; and the mass of the people are well
affected to him and to his administration. Yet I have strong
hopes that, by the exertions of the principal federalists, Massa-
chusetts will unanimously vote for Adams and Pinckney.
Khode Island is in a state somewhat uncertain. Schisms have
grown up from personal rivalships, which have been improved
by the anti-federalists, to strengthen their interests. Governor
Fenner expresses a hope that there will be two anti-federal elec-
tors; but our friends reject this idea as wholly improbable. But
I am not quite convinced that they know the ground. In every
event, however, I expect that Mr. Adams will have there an
unanimous vote.

I think nothing can be relied upon as to General Pinckney.
Connecticut will, I doubt not, unanimously vote for General
Pinckney ; but, being very much displeased with Mr. Adams, it
will require the explicit advice of certain gentlemen to induce
them to vote for him. No anti-federalist has any chance there.
About Vermont, I am not as yet accurately informed, but I
believe Adams and Pinckney will both have all the votes. In
New-York all the votes will certainly be for Jefferson and Burr.
New Jersey does not stand as well as she used to do. The antis
hope for the votes of this State, but I think they will be disap-

jEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 453

pointed. If the electors are federal, Pinckney will certainly be
voted for ; and Adams will be or not, as leading friends shall
advise. Adding to this view of the northern, what I have
understood of the southern quarter, our prospects are not bril-
liant. There seems to be too much probability that Jefferson or
Burr will be President. The latter is intriguing with all his
might in New Jersey, Ehode Island, and Vermont ; and there is
a possibility of some success in his intrigues. He counts posi-
tively on the universal support of the anti-federalists ; and that,
by some adventitious aid from other quarters, he will overtop
his friend Jefferson. Admitting the first point, the conclusion
may be realized, and, if it is so, Burr will certainly attempt to
reform the government a la Buonaparte. He is as unprincipled
and dangerous a man as any country can boast — as true a Cati-
line as ever met in midnight conclave.

With sincere esteem and regard, &c.

CABOT TO HAMILTON".

Brooklyn, August 10th, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 1st did not reach me until last evening ;
the inclosure shall be transmitted to-morrow or the day following,
by some trusty person who will attend the levee, if one can be
found who will engage to deliver it ; otherwise I may perhaps
send it in the regular package which goes from the post-office.
This method would be better than to send a servant, who might
be obliged to deliver it to another servant. There is no reason
to doubt the first course will be pursued, and I shall not delay
to inform you of the delivery as soon as it is ascertained.

Although I cannot but feel unhappy at the gloomy prospect
of our public affairs, yet I do not feel my usual degree of solici-
tude for the issue of the election. There is something like a bal-
ance of advantages and disadvantages in the success of either of

454 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

the three candidates. Mr. Adams will doubtless continue to
sacrifice the independent federalists so long as he finds victims
who will be acceptable to those whose favor he courts ; he will
also hazard a war with Great Britain, which he evidently thinks
would be no injury to him ; but if he has justly forfeited the con-
fidence of the country, he has not yet actually lost it in this
quarter ; and the men who adhere to him, while they zealously sus-
tain him, are also a restraint upon him, and for some time at least
may prevent his worst measures, and until they have given him
up' will not cordially support another. Jefferson's' election would
tend to reunite the federal party, and if it is evidently effected
by the Jacobin force unaided by any other, or if aided at all by
the adherents of Mr. Adams, the reunion of our old friends would
be complete. Should Mr. Pinckney be elected he would be op-
posed by Mr. Adams and his warm adherents, and would be
heartily supported by those only who are now detached from
Mr. Adams. This state of things would be unpropitious to Mr.
Pinckney's administration ; there is, however, one unanswerable
reason for wishing Mr. Pinckney to succeeed, and that is, that
the best and indeed all the truly good men would find them-
selves in their proper places, arranged under the banners of the
Constitution and laws on the side of the national chief.

The question has been asked whether if the federalists can-
not carry their first points, they would not do well to turn the
election from Jefferson to Burr? They conceive Burr to be less
likely to look to France for support than Jefferson, provided he
could be supported at home. They consider Burr as actuated
by ordinary ambition, Jefferson by that and the pride of the Ja-
cobinic philosophy. The former may be satisfied by power and
property, the latter must see the roots of our society pulled up
and a new course of cultivation substituted ; certainly it would
have been fortunate for the United States, if the second candi-
tade on the Jacobin side had been one who might be safely
trusted. No great progress has been made in convincing people
of the propriety of voting for Pinckney with all our strength; yet
I believe if it shall appear clearly that Adams will fail, and that
Pinckney may be elected, our legislature will act properly, espe-

jEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 455

cially if there is no just imputation of unfairness against Mr.
Pinckney's friends.

I am told New Hampshire will vote for Adams and Pinck-
ney, but that Rhode Island will sooner give some second votes
for Jefferson than all for Pinckney.

I am, with unceasing esteem and attachment,

Your faithful friend,

George Cabot.

BAYARD TO HAMILTON.

August 18, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I willingly communicate such information as I possess on the
subject of the inquiries contained in the letter you did me the
honor to write on the 6th instant, and which I received the day
before yesterday. I had a ten years' acquaintance with Dr.
Wharton, which invariably continued on a footing of intimacy
and friendship. His classical knowledge is extensive and criti-
ical; and he has taught with much reputation, Mathematics,
Natural Philosophy, and Astronomy. He is a master in Ethics,
and acquainted with politics as a branch of Moral Philosophy.
He is a man of mild and amiable temper, of polite manners, and
of principles equally sound in practice as in theory, in morals and
in politics. "With these qualities there is a great desideratum in
the character necessary to direct the education of youth. The
cloisters of St. Omar's were extremely unfriendly to a just know-
ledge of human nature. They afforded leisure to study books,
but not the means of becoming acquainted with men. It was
probably too late, when the doctor came into life, to give a turn to
his mind which was entirely new. He contented himself with
pursuing the knowledge which could be acquired from books,
and did not or could not qualify himself to judge of men. In
applying his censure or applause, I often thought him intem-
perate and injudicious, as to that knowledge which would enable

456 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

the president of a college to discriminate the dispositions and
talents of his pupils, and attribute their actions to the proper
motives, to know when and how praise ought to be bestowed,
and censure applied in order to produce a certain effect ; in short,
as to that skill which instructs us as to the keys of human action,
I consider the doctor as greatly deficient. In other respects, he
wants nothing of the character you describe. Such is the view,
certainly imperfect, which I have always had of the character of
Dr. Wharton, — a view not shaded by an unfriendly sentiment ;
nor do I believe colored by the sincere esteem and friendship I
have for him. He does not possess that imposing manner which
belongs to the deportment of some men, and which, if not essen-
tial, is at least a useful quality in those who have much inter-
course with young men, who are to be restrained as much by per-
sonal respect as severity of discipline. There is an occasional
levity about the doctor, which is little short of trifling. What is
meant by gravity he has nothing of. The serious affairs of life
he certainly can perform seriously, but not with that solemnity
and impression which belongs to the manners of many persons.
I offer you a very imperfect sketch of the doctor's character.
You will allow it no weighty but as corroborative of the opinions
of others.

I thank you for the view you have given me of the state of
things to the eastward, relative to the election of President.
I value it, because I can rely upon it. It is in my power to re-
peat what you know as to our situation in the southward ; but I
do not presume I can add to your information. The condition
of Pennsylvania is known to you. Every thing I take to depend
upon the ensuing election of the State legislature. The
federal majority is not so great in the Senate as to be beyond
the operation of this election. The event, however, is not much
dreaded. If the present state of things continues, the federalists
would consent to district the State, so as to give to Jefferson
eight votes. Delaware is safe. They may hesitate whether they
will give Mr. Adams a vote. The present electoral law of Mary-
land is by districts. Such an election would probably give Mr.
Jefferson three votes. It is the better opinion, however, that the

^Et. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 457

federalists will avail themselves of the power they possess, to
command the entire vote of the State. Virginia is sold, and past
salvation; my knowledge of North Carolina was derived during
the session of Congress from the members of that State. I con-
sulted the most of them on the federal side, and set down the
votes of the State, seven for Jefferson, and five for Adams and
Pinckney, the five perhaps less certainly for the latter than the
former. It is thought that the votes of South Carolina will
count equally for Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Pinckney ; Georgia, Ten-
nessee, and Kentucky, may be thrown into the scale of Mr. Jef-
ferson. But there is no reason to despond, unless the eastern
States play a foul game ; and if they do so a second time, they
ought never to be forgiven. If they do, they forfeit for ever the
confidence of their friends to the southward. They will beget a
system of miserable intrigue between the members of the same
party, whose efforts can never be united, but through mutual
confidence; and whose united efforts are absolutely necessary to
maintain their ground against their enemies.

What is the charm which attaches the east so much to Mr.
A. ? It can be nothing personal. The escape we have had un-
der his administration is miraculous. He is liable to gusts of
passion little short of frenzy, which drive him beyond the control
of any rational reflection. I speak of what I have seen. At
such moments the interests of those who support him or the in-
terest of the nation would be outweighed by a single impulse of
rage. This is enough, but not all. We may thank the guardian
genius of the country which has watched over its destinies for
the last four years. I do not hold this language to the multitude,
though I should have no objection to hold it to Mr. A. himself.
We must vote for him, I suppose, and therefore cannot safely say
to every one what we think of him. But he has palsied the
sinews of the party, and, if I relied on forebodings as ominous,
I should believe that before another Presidential cycle has com-
pleted itself, he would give it its death wound. I hope my senti-
ments do not scandalize the faith or works of good federalists.
I can see no in any thing which can happen, but am not

indifferent to the dangers or evils which threaten the country.

458 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

You have the reputation of being our father confessor in politics ;
and I have therefore made to you a frank confession. My sins,
I hope, will be remitted.

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

Brookline, August 21, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

An exposition of the reasons which influence many men of
unquestionable patriotism and loyalty to withhold from Mr.
Adams the confidence he once enjoj^ed, maybe useful by satisfy-
ing the intelligent and candid part of the public that these men
act, as they have ever done, .on genuine national principles ; the
reasons are strong and require only to be placed in a clear light ;
but this must be done with infinite care and circumspection, that
neither danger nor jealousy may be excited. It must be done in
a manner that shall clear up the doubts, which now exist, of the
sincerity and consistency of the party who promote the union of
votes for Adams and Pinckney.

It is perceived by Mr. Adams's personal friends that while
the party profess a zealous desire to unite all the federal votes
for A. and P., there are many, or at least some individuals among
those who compose it, whose wishes are known to be that the
election may issue in favor of Mr. P., and therefore it is inferred
such persons will not act, and do not aim as they profess. To
this charge it is generally answered, " that without a union of
all the federalists, neither Mr. A. nor Mr. P. can probably be
chosen, but that with such an union one may probably be Presi-
dent, and the other Vice-President; and, considering all the
circumstances of the case, the chance and the preponderance of
wishes is in favor of Mr. A." — that although there may be many,
and doubtless are some individuals, who would think it by no
means propitious to the national welfare that Mr. Adams should
be re-elected, yet they yield to the superior consideration of
union, by which alone Jefferson can be kept out, and Adams or

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 459

Pinckney put into the office, and therefore these men act and will
act fairly towards Mr. Adams, giving him all their support upon
the just expectation of a similar support to Mr. P., from those who
prefer Mr. Adams; "that the plan formed at Philadelphia to
support both, was a compromise which contemplated Mr. Adams
as President ; but liable, however, to be superseded by Pinckney from
the nature of the election, and "that good faith would and ought
to be observed as the only means of success, and as the only
ground of content after success."

Such is the tenor of our language to the public — we think it
true, and we shall be greatly embarrassed if at this late period,
after ouu sentiments are extensively known, there should be a
new or different ground taken — you must allow me therefore to
insist, that whatever display is made of Mr. Adams's misconduct,
it must be continually recollected that he may be again chosen by us,
and that we are pledged to give him the full chance of the united
vote concerted at Philadelphia; so that, whatever is said against
him, must be explicitly avowed to be the complaint of those of
us who have yielded individual opinion to the general opinion of
the party as a matter of expediency, and not the language of the
party; and it ought to be admitted, that the party, from various
considerations, rather prefer the election of Mr. Adams than Mr.
Pinckney. I understand, through a friend, that the Carolinians
adhere to these ideas as they were digested and agreed to at
Philadelphia.

Mr. Harper writes from Baltimore on the 11th inst., "that
our friends may now count with some certainty, indeed very
great certainty, on an unanimous vote for Mr. Pinckney in Mary-
land." Although I think some good may be derived from an
exhibition of Mr. Adams's misconduct, yet I am well persuaded
that you may do better than to put your name to it. This might
give it an interest with men who need no such interest, but it
will be converted to a new proof that you are a dangerous man.
Ames and I agree that you will give the enemy an advantage to
which he has no claim.

In every situation believe me affectionately and faithfully
yours,

George Cabot.

460 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 4§.

MARSHALL TO HAMILTON.

Washington, August 23d, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I received to-day your letter of the 19th inst., accompanying
a memorial from the Governor-General of the Danish West India
Islands, respecting the conduct of some of our ships of war.

This paper shall be immediately communicated to the Secre-
tary of the Navy. Our dispatches from Paris come no later than
the 17th of May. There is nothing in them on which a positive
opinion respecting the result of that negotiation can b« formed.

Connecting the then state of things with the European events
which have since happened, and with intelligence from America
which has since reached them, I shall not be surprised if the par-
agraph from St. Sebastian should be true.

With very much respect and esteem, &c.

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

Brookline, August 23d, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

I have shown to several of our wisest and best men a copy of
what I wrote you on the 21st instant. They all concur in the
sentiments it contains. Still it is probably fit, and it may be in-
dispensable, to expose Mr. Adams fully to the public. The
countenance and authority given by him and his friends to the
vile calumnies against us, may strengthen their credit so much as
to render them irrefutable without such an exposition. / don't
think, however, we can discard Mr. Adams as a candidate at this late
period without total derangement and defeat in this quarter. It is true
there is an apparent absurdity in supporting a man whom we
know to be unworthy of trust. It is a dilemma, however, into
which we are brought by the proceedings at Philadelphia, and

jEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 461

which we could not shun — or perhaps it is a natural result of the
mode of election, and could not have been avoided ; but, be this
as it may, we have considered, as an agreed point among the
federalists, that Adams and Pinckney are to be voted for
together, and we accordingly have urged, with great confidence,
that this is the intention of the federal party generally, and that it is
acquiesced in by most of those who are supposed to influence
them. I think, therefore, you cannot omit to make a clear and
explicit reference to this known state of things in whatever you
may publish, and possibly, as a consequence of it, to ground the
publication chiefly on the necessity of it to exculpate those whom
it vindicates from the abominable charges, insinuations, and un-
merited denunciations of Mr. Adams, and some of his personal
friends. Indeed, I see no impropriety in regretting that a com-
promise has been made, which must be observed at every
hazard, it being too manifest that Mr. Adams has relinquished
the system he was chosen by the federalists to support, and that
he has become hostile, and will necessarily become more and
more hostile, to the firm advocates of that system, and all who
adhere to it. I think, however, it must be shown that the oppo-
sition to Mr. Adams is founded upon broad public principles.
For myself, I often declare that the mission to France, though
impolitic, unjustifiable, dangerous and inconsistent ; the expul-
sion of able, upright and faithful officers — since Mr. Pickering was
expelled the President has said of him to a gentleman, " an
honest man as ever lived" — though a ruinous precedent ; the
pardon of Fries though a sacrifice of the safety as well as dig-
nity of the State ; that many other transactions of inferior mag-
nitude though shamefully wrong ; yet that all these would not
induce me to oppose the President's re-election, if I did not view
them as evidence, explained and confirmed by other evidence,
that he has abandoned the system he was chosen to maintain,
and that he is likely to introduce its opposite, with all its perni-
cious consequences, as fast as he can, and as far as his influence
will go.

If this idea is correct, as it appears to me, it cannot be too
strongly impressed on the sound part of the public. A long

462 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

letter full of good sense and interesting information is just re-
ceived from Mr. W. ; he thinks an examination of P. Adams's
administration has been so long delayed that it can only now be
made to grow out of the unjust accusations of his present friends.
This excellent letter has been read and admired by several per-
sons whose judgment you respect, but whose opinions remain
perfectly fixed, that we cannot now change the arrangement.
We are not strong enough to break up and new form in the face of
our enemy. I have sent to Mr. W. a copy of mine to you of the
21st, which will explain to him sufficiently our situation. Mr.
Gordon tells me the New Hampshire electors will all vote for
Adams and Pinckney certainly, except one, of whom the same
is probable, but not certain. The persons for electors are suppos-
ed to he predestinated by the legislature.

Colonel Burr is to be at Providence to-day — he probably
may expect that as Governor Fenner will vote for Jefferson, he
may also be induced to vote for him ; as he is a very sanguine
man, he may expect even more.

Yours faithfully, &c.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, Monday, 25th August, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I was this moment favored with yours of the 19th instant,
requesting copies of the Instruction, and of the letter mentioned
in it. I shall, without delay, look for these papers. I presume
that I have preserved them, but am not certain. When I re-
moved from my house in the Broadway to the Government
House, all such of my papers as were not in use, or which did
not respect property, were packed up with little order ; nor have
they been since separated or arranged — nor, indeed, unpacked.

As to the letter, all the papers respecting the mission to
Great Britain were kept together, until I removed to this place,
when they were packed up also, with many others not in use,

iE-r. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 463

and so still remain. That I have preserved the letter is proba-
ble, but not certain ; for I usually destroy those private letters
which either ought not or which do not appear of sufficient im-
portance to be kept. My recollection of its contents is imper-
fect, but corresponds with the general idea you give of it. As
to the use I made of it, that was communicated to you in confi-
dence, and, consequently, cannot be given to the public. If I
find it, as I hope may be the case, you shall certainly have a
copy of it.

Yours sincerely,

John Jay.

AMES TO HAMILTON.

Dedham, Aug. 26th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I have communicated your letter, by Mr. Coolidge to Mr.
Cabot and two or three friends. I have desired him, and he
has promised, to write to you on the subject. Since its recep-
tion I have had a long, profoundly sensible, and interesting
letter from Mr. Wolcott. The same friends have also considered
that, and we all agree in the result.

"We understand that at the close of the late session the feder-
alists consulted on the measures proper to be taken by the
friends of order and true liberty to keep the chair from being
occupied by an enemy of both. This was the principal object to
which all inferior considerations must be made to yield. It was
known, and allowed, that Mr. Adams has conducted strangely
and unaccountably, and that his re-election will be very inau-
spicious to the United States. But great as that evil appeared,
it was thought indispensably necessary to run the risk of it, and
to agree fairly to vote for him and General Pinckney, — because
chance might exclude the former — and because any other ar-
rangement would, by dividing the party, inevitably exclude
loth, and absolutely secure the success of Mr. Jefferson — and

464 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

*

because, also, many, perhaps most of the federalists, will believe
it is better to have him (Mr. Adams) again, than Mr. Jefferson.
The question being not what opinion we must have of the can-
didates, but what conduct we are to pursue, I do not see cause
to arraign the policy of the result of that meeting.

For, in the first place, it is manifestly impossible to get votes
enough for General Pinckney to prevent the choice of Mr. Jef-
ferson, in case he should be supported in open hostility to Mr.
Adams. The sixteen votes of this State, and four of Khode Island,
may be counted as adhering, in all events, to Mr. Adams. Then
why should we ground any plan of conduct on a known imprac-
ticability of its execution ? By taking that course of open hos-
tility, generous as it may seem, we are at issue with all the
federalists who would not join us, and whose vexation and
despair would ascribe the certain ill success of the party to us
and not to the Jacobins. They would say we make Mr. Jeffer-
son President, and the vindictive friends of Mr. Adams would
join in the accusation. The federalists would be defeated, which
is bad, and disjointed and enraged against one another, which
would be worse. Now it seems to me that the great object of
duty and prudence is to keep the party strong by its union and
spirit ; for I see almost no chance of preventing the election of
Mr. Jefferson. Pennsylvania will be managed eventually by
Governor McKean and Governor Dallas, to throw its whole
weight into that scale. The question is not, I fear, how we shall
fight, but how we and all federalists shall fall — that we may fall
like Antaeus, the stronger for our fall.

It is, I confess, awkward and embarrassing to act under the
constraints that we do. But sincerity will do much to extricate
us. Where is the inconsistency of saying, President Adams has
not our approbation of some of his measures, nor do we desire
his re-election, but many federalists do, and the only chance
to prevent the triumph of the Jacobins, is to unite and vote ac-
cording to the compromise made at Philadelphia for the two can-
didates. That this gives an equal chance and a better than we
would freely give to one of them. But strong as our objections
are, and strongly as we would and are willing to urge them to

Mt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 405

the public, we refrain because the effect of urging them would
be to split the federalists, and absolutely to insure Mr. Jeffer-
son's success. That, however, if the ravenous and absurd at-
tacks of Mr. Adams's personal friends, and the meditated in-
trigues with our legislature, should make it necessary, we shall
not fail to prevent the effect of that compromise which they thus
abuse and turn against the avowed design of those who made it ;
and that we shall not sit still, but resort to such measures as
they will render necessary. That tliis compromise not only
exhibits the condescension and pliancy of Mr. Adams's opposers,
but is the only good basis of the success of either Mr. Adams's or
General Pinckney's friends in the event, as it engages before-
hand for the acquiescence of the disappointed part of the feder-
alists, and also as it is the only step that can unite them to' op-
pose the election of a Jacobin, and, in that sad event, that can
keep them united as a party, without whose union oppression
and revolution will ensue.

Where is the absurdity or inconsistency of this language ? It
is, besides, that which we have held for some time, and it is diffi-
cult now to change it.

I am therefore clear, that you ought not with your name, nor if
practicable in any way, that will be traced to you, to execute your
purpose of exposing the reasons for a change of the Executive.
But a strong appeal to the sense and principles of the real fed-
eralists would not or need not contradict or discredit the lan-
guage above stated. I have tried to compress as much as I can
into one sheet, but I have much more I wish to suggest to you.
I have no occasion to say how highly I respect your judgment,
but I exceedingly desire to discuss with you the point of changes
which the Jacobins may force the nation to make in the plan of
the government.

Yours truly,

Fisher Ames.
466 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 43.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albant, August 2Gth, 1800.

Dear Sir :

Yesterday I received and answered yours of the 19th instant.
I have found a copy of the instructions made by William T.
Franklin, who was our secretary. They contain the following,
verbatim, viz. : " You are to make the most candid and confi-
dential communications upon all subjects to the ministers of our
generous ally, the King of France ; to undertake nothing in the
negotiation for peace or truce, without their knowledge or con-
currence ; and ultimately to govern yourselves by their advice
and opinion."

I have not yet found the letter.

Yours,

John Jay.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, August 27th, 1800.

Dear Sir;

I received and answered your letter of the 19th inst. on Mon-
day. Yesterday I found the instructions, and immediately wrote
to you a letter containing a copy of the paragraph in question.
My search for the letter of which I made the use you mention,
was fruitless until this morning, when I found it, and now inclose
a copy. It does not quite answer your expectation as to the
opinion, but I know, and am ready to certify, that you gave me
in substance the opinion you mention, viz. : " That unless an
arrangement on solid terms could be made with Great Britain, it
would be better to do nothing."

Yours,

John Jay.

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 467

CARROLL TO HAMILTON.
Brooklandwood, near Baltimore, Aug. 27tli, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I received this morning, at this place, the country residence
of ray son-in-law, Mr. Caton, your letter of the 7th instant. I
wish it were in my power to give you pleasing intelligence of the
politics in this State. Our county (Ann Arundel), which was
lately so federal, is at present much divided in the upper part of
it. I suspect there is a majority for anti-federal candidates to our
State legislature. This change of sentiment has been principally
effected by a few characters, who, profiting by the report that
our legislature would take from the people the right of choosing
the electors of President and Vice-President, have infused such
jealousies into the minds of the people, that I fear the federal
ticket will not prevail in Ann Arundel, unless the candidates
will promise not to take from the people the choice of electors.

Notwithstanding the arts, and lies, and indefatigable industry
of the Jacobins in this State, I am of opinion a great majority of
its inhabitants are friendly to the federal government and its
measures. I suspect Jefferson and Burr will have three votes in
this State, and that the electors will be chosen by districts, and
not by the legislature. The federal electors will vote for Adams
and Pinckney, although the former has lost the confidence of
many of the federals from the incidents to which you allude, and
which are pretty generally circulated through this State.

It is the character of the age to be timid and suspicious; and
this infirmity, so natural to men of my time of life, has no doubt its
influence on my mind. I much fear that this country is doomed
to great convulsions, changes, and calamities. The turbulent and
disorganizing spirit of Jacobinism, under the worn-out disguise
of equal liberty and right, and equal division of property, held
out to the indolent and needy, but not really intended to be exe-
cuted, will introduce anarchy, which will terminate here, as in
France, in a military despotism.

I understand Jefferson and Burr have all the votes in Vir-

468 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

ginia. How the votes will be to the southward of that State, I
can form no opinion, having no sure data to form one. If the
Virginia electors should suspect that Burr might outvote their
favorite, Jefferson, they will leave out Burr, or only leave him a
few votes.

I hope the eastern electors, in a case of so much importance,
and when they come to consider the baneful effects which may
result from their giving a chance to the election of Jefferson or
Burr for President, will vote unanimously for Adams and Pinck-
ney ; if they do not act in this manner, it is highly probable that
Jefferson will be elected President.

Although I dislike laws and changes suited to the spur of the
occasion, yet, as I see many evils are likely to result from the
choice of a Jacobinical President, the insidious policy of Virginia
should, in my opinion, be counteracted ; and if we should have
a federal House of Delegates, (of which I really have doubts from
the present ferment in public minds,) I hope the legislature will
choose "pro hac vice," the electors of President and Vice-Presi'
dent. I say I hope, for I am not certain, even if the new House
of Delegates should be federal, that they would pass such a law,
as many of the members will probably be instructed not to vote
for it.

I have given you my sentiments upon the subject of your
letter and all the information I possess, which, to speak the truth,
is chiefly derived from others, and those well disposed to our
present government.

Burr will probably act with more decision than Jefferson, if
elected President, and will go on better with his party, but will
not Jefferson be afraid to disoblige his party, and may he not be
driven to measures which his own judgment would reject.

A wise and federal Senate may, for a considerable time restrain
the wild projects of the Jacobin faction, and in politics as in
war, who gains time, I will not say, with the great Frederick,
gains every thing, but gains a great deal.

If the war in Europe should be protracted to another year, I
fear the anti-federal party will endeavor to precipitate this coun-
try into a war with England, and the depredations committed

Mt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 469

by her cruisers on our trade will aid their designs. I hope, how-
ever, the coming winter will produce a general peace. In that
event we shall have one evil the less to dread from the machina-
tions of the enemies of order and good government.

It is much to be wished that our envoys to France may be
able to accommodate our differences with that nation, before
peace is concluded between it and England, otherwise Buona-
parte will, I fear, make us purchase the forbearance of the great
nation at a very dear rate.

I am with sentiments of high esteem
and respect, dear Sir,

Your most humble servant,

Charles Carroll of Carrollton.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 22d September, 1800.

Dear Sir:

On my return to this place on Friday last, I was favored with
yours of the 3d instant.

It seems, that contradictory reports still prevail respecting our
negotiations at Paris. I am not yet persuaded that Buonaparte
has adopted, in all its extent, the system of domination which
the preceding rulers of France attempted to execute ; and there-
fore, I presume that a treaty of peace with America on fair and
just terms may comport with his views. A treaty of peace on
any other than fair and just terms is not desirable; and in my
opinion, that nation must be deficient in Spirit, Power, or Wis-
dom, that will accept of peace on any other. These ideas, how-
ever, are not new to you — for I well remember your opinion,
relative to settling our then existing differences with Great Brit-
ain, that " unless an arrangement on solid terms could be made with
Great Britain, it would be better to do nothing. ."

With great esteem and regard, I am dear Sir, &c.

470 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

Washington, October 1st, 1800.

My Dear Sir :

I have received your favor of September 26th, and have made
a few notes which I will revise and send to you to-morrow. The
style and temper is excellent ; no observations occur to me upon
the first part of the draft.

You will judge of the expediency of sending the letter from
the information which you possess of the public opinion. I have
no lights beyond those which I suggested as from Massachusetts,
in a late letter which I wrote to you, and which I hope you receiv-
ed. The advice from that quarter was opposed to any publica-
tion with your signature. I am of opinion, with you, that
anonymous publications do no good.

Presuming that you would want the draft, I inclose it. I will
write more at large to-morrow. Yours, &c.

P. S. I inclose a S. C. paper — there is in it a publication not
much to my mind. Mr. P. ought not to have suggested a doubt
of the authenticity of the letter to Tench Coxe.

HAMILTON TO ADAMS.

New- York, October 1, 1800.

Sir:

The time which has elapsed since my letter of the 1st Aug. was
delivered to you, precludes the further expectation of an answer.

From this silence I will draw no inference, nor will I presume
to judge of the fitness of silence on such an occasion, on the part
of the chief magistrate of a republic towards a citizen who with-
out a stain has discharged so many important public trusts.

But thus much I will affirm, that by whomsoever a charge of

jEt. 43. j CORRESPONDENCE. 471

the kind mentioned in my former letter may at any time have
been made, or insinuated against me, it is a base, wicked, and
cruel calumny, destitute even of a plausible pretext to excuse the
folly or the depravity which must have dictated it.
With due respect,

I have the honor to be Sir,

Your obedient servant.

"WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.
(private.)

Washington, October 2, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you a hasty letter yesterday, in which I returned the
draft which accompanied your favor of September 26th. In my
opinion, the style, temper, and spirit of the composition, are well
suited to the subject, and will do you honor. I have only to sub-
mit a few criticisms to your consideration.

The observations respecting Mr. T. Pinckney's predilection for
France, in page 19, and his official conduct in London, in page
21, had, I think, better be omitted.

The reference to * * will, I hope, also be omitted.

Page 38. The President did not declare his opinion respect-
ing the departure of the envoys to be settled when he first came
to Trenton. In a letter from Massachusetts, he directed the
Secretaries to consult together, and prepare a draft of instruc-
tions, and he intimated that he would suspend the departure of
the envoys for some time. The draft of instructions was prepared,
and the President after his arrival at Trenton candidly consulted
all the Secretaries on the principles of the negotiation, but was
silent on the question whether the mission ought immediately
to proceed.

The instructions were settled in a consultation which termi-
nated only after eleven o'clock in the evening. The next morn-

472 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

ing, before breakfast, the President informed the Secretary of
State by letter, that he had decided that the envoys should de-
part immediately. The peculiar indelicacy of his conduct con-
sisted in first encouraging an expectation that the mission would be
suspended until a change of circumstances occurred ; secondly,
in availing himself of opinions, so far only as they could serve
his own concealed views ; and thirdly, in deciding contrary to
what was expected, without hearing the arguments of the officers
on a collateral point which he well knew they deemed of import-
ance. It must be evident that no man's character can be safe,
when opinions can be required in a partial manner. Justice de-
manded either that the Secretaries should not be at all consulted,
or that they should be permitted to record their sentiments re-
specting any points which in their judgments were connected
with the general question of the mission.

Page 42. I perceive no reason why the eventual provision
for negotiation should not have been public. Indeed, secrecy is
impracticable with respect to the appointment of ministers under
our Constitution.

Page 49. The two insurrections cost, collectively, near a
million and a half of dollars.

Page 49. Two persons were convicted, — one appeared from
documents, which were laid before the President, to be a person
greatly deficient in reason, in short, nearly an idiot ; the other,
such an one as you have described.

Page 50. I have heard that the declaration attributed to the
President was made, but I do not clearly recollect the evidence.
It rests in my memory, however, that I was credibly informed
that the declaration was made, in presence of several persons, to
Doctor Push.

Page 50. That Messrs. Dallas and Lewis addressed such a
letter to the President is certain. Lewis mentioned the fact to
his friends in Philadelphia, and Dallas read the letter to Mr.
Liston ! ! I feel some delicacy in mentioning the circumstance
of the letter, and would' not do so if the fact had not otherwise
become public. If the paragraph is retained, you ought to rest
the fact on evidence derived from the conversations of the

^Et.43.] correspondence. 473

counsel. The name of Mr. Liston ought not to be mentioned.
It is a curious fact, however, that Dallas, Ned Livingstone, and
other democrats, have been more frequently in the train, and
much more intimate with Mr. Liston, than the men who are ac-
cused as belonging to the British faction. I do not suspect these
democrats of being bribed by Mr. Liston, though, on less evi-
dence than exists against them, they have been willing to keep
alive suspicions against much honester men.

Page 51. It will, I think, be sufficient to state that the facts
are founded on the best information — they will not be disputed.

Page 54. I have no reason to doubt the correctness of this
declaration as you mean to be understood ; but it will be well to
reflect whether you have not advised some connection with Eng-
land with the view of prosecuting joint hostilities with France.
If so, the declaration ought to be properly qualified.

Page 55 and 56. This subject is of peculiar delicacy, as it
affects others who are your friends. I think you ought not to
suggest a doubt respecting the treaty which was not explicitly
avowed by you under the signature of Camillus, and that you
ought to refer to that work for your opinions. As to the mode
of ratification, there were different opinions among men whose
intentions were equally good, the merits of which opinions can-
not be discussed. I am of opinion that no advantage can result
from turning the public attention to points, which then were,
and ever will, remain doubtful.

Your proposal to send Mr. Jefferson, or Mr. Madison, to
France, I always thought a mistake. I believe a disclosure of it
will do you no good, and that, in the progress of our affairs, the
knowledge that such advice was given by you, will do harm. It
is a fact, however, which you have an unquestionable right to
publish if you think proper. The time may come (but I think
it has not yet arrived) for a full disclosure of the part which
every man has acted in relation to the great questions which
have arisen at different times under the present government.

The last page ought, in my opinion, to be considerably
altered. I think the letter may, with propriety, be sent to your
friends elsewhere than in New England, if it is published at all.

474 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 43.

The letter ought, and will, influence the election ; if it is sent
merely as a defence of your character, and that of your friends,
and not to influence the election, the publication should be de-
ferred till after the election is over. A principal merit of the
composition consists in its candor and temper ; particular caution
is therefore necessary in stating all the motives of the publication.
I have thought hitherto that Mr. Adams ought, by all fair and
honorable means, to be deprived of votes. If your letter should
be sent to Connecticut in its present form, I suspect that it would
be inferred to be your expectation at least, that Mr. Adams would
obtain all the votes of that State. The expression of such an
expectation might, in some degree, contribute to produce that
effect. I expect to visit my friends in a short time, and wish
the question to remain undetermined.

There is a party in this State (Maryland) who consider Mr.
Adams as a character exactly suited to their views, and I believe
it to be their intention to give him their exclusive support. To
counteract this policy, it is necessary that some federal votes
should be withdrawn from Mr. Adams. This would not increase
the chances of Mr. Jefferson's election, though it would probably
be the means of referring the choice of a President to the House
of Eepresentatives.

Perhaps the motives of writing the letter may be thus ex-
plained : — 1st. That it is necessary to the defence of your char-
acter ; and secondly, that for the reason assigned, you are seri-
ously apprehensive of fatal consequences from a re-election of
Mr. Adams — that you find, however, many federalists, whose
opinions you respect, who entertain no such apprehensions — that
your letter is dictated by a desire of informing them of facts and
circumstances which have guided your judgment, and of which
they are presumed to be unacquainted. That you are apprised of
the bad consequences which might result from a public inves-
tigation of the conduct and character of Mr. Adams, and that de-
ference lor the opinions of those who are his friends and support-
ers, has induced you to confine the circulation of your letter to
gentlemen of known respectability and prudence, who will dis-
passionately weigh your objections and decide according to what
shall appear to be the true interest of the country.

jEt.43.] correspondence. 475

What precedes is written upon the supposition that the letter
is to be transmitted according to your suggestion ; but as to the
measure itself, I can give no opinion ; my feelings and individual
judgment are in favor of it. I never liked the half-way plan
which has been pursued. It appears to me that federal men are
in danger of losing character in the delicate point of sincerity ;
— nevertheless, when I consider the degree of support which Mr.
Adams has already received ; that our friends in Massachusetts
say that they still 'prefer the election of Mr. Adams ; that the
country is so divided and agitated as to be in some danger of
civil commotions, I cannot but feel doubts as to any measure
which can possibly increase our divisions. You can judge of
the state of public opinion in the Eastern States better than I
can. If the popular sentiment is strong in favor of Mr. Adams — if
the people in general approve of his late public conduct, or if there is a
want of confidence for any reason in General Pinckney, I should think
the publication ought to be suppressed ; on the contrary, if the
publication would increase the votes for General Pinckney, and pro-
cure support to him in case he shoidd he elected, it would certainly be
beneficial. Notwithstanding your impressions to the contrary,
I am not convinced that Mr. Adams can seriously injure your
character. At the moment of an election many men who con-
sider themselves honest will affect or be really convinced, in
some degree, of things which, in more serene moments, they
cannot bring their minds to believe.

I am, with great sincerity, yours.

P. S. — It would seem from the papers, that the mission to
France has terminated as I predicted. I am not, however, such
a wizard as to tell what is to be done next. The situation of the
country is such as to demand all the skill of the great Master of
Diplomacy.

476 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

VANS MURRAY TO HAMILTON.

Paris, October 9th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

I was extremely flattered by the confidence which your letter
by Mr. Colbert proved you have in my disposition to follow your
wishes. A letter from you is no affair of ceremony. It is an
obligation on any man who flatters himself with the hope of
your personal esteem. Mr. Colbert gave it to me yesterday. I
immediately, in particular, addressed a letter to Bonaparte, and
made use of your name, which I was sure would be pleasing to
him. To-day I dined with him. The Secretary of State, Mr,
Maret — a very clever fellow — assured me that he received it
kindly, and I can hope something good from him. If any come
it will be your work. I never before spoke or wrote to Bona'
parte on any affair other than public business. It will be very
pleasing to you, if we succeed, that your silent agency works
good to the unhappy and meritorious at such a distance. I
know nothing better belonging to reputation. In two days I go
to the Hague to my post; wherever I am, I beg you to com-
mand my services in all things in my power.

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

Brdokline, Saturday, October 11th, 1800.

My Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 2d did not reach me until last evening, it
having been accidentally detained at the stage-house in this vil-
lage several days. The President is on the point of departure
for the seat of government, so that no opportunity of conveyance
by a private gentleman could be found ; I have therefore sent
you a letter by a sure hand to the post-office, whence it undoubt-
edly goes in the President's regular package of letters this day,
to Quincy. I have chosen this method as more sure of reaching

Avr. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 477

his own hand than if I had sent it by a servant, who would have
been obliged to deliver it, perhaps, to another servant instead of
the President or his secretary. Our people, after all their scold-
ing, seem now to admit more generally that Massachusetts ought
fairly to vote for A. and P. ; but you know that we can only
give conjectures until the meeting of our legislature.

Although I am not an influential man, and wish I was not so
thought to be, I expect at least one, and if printed, several copies
of your justificatory letter.

Dr. D wight is here, stirring us up to oppose the demon Jaco-
binism. A new paper, to be entitled the " New England Anti-
Jacobin," is to be published at Boston, and circulated as exten-
sively as possible, especially through New England ; the labors
of many good men are expected in its support, and yours among
the rest. Some good may reasonably be expected from it in the
discrimination of useful truths, in correcting some of the danger-
ous errors embraced by the federalists, in uniting and keeping
them united, and in some measure preparing them for the evils
they cannot shun; but the object is too vague and the means
too inconstant to satisfy all our anxieties.

The President has been endeavoring to be calm and discreet,
and has discovered a desire to be visited by the individuals of the
" — = — faction" whom he has formerly proscribed.

Yours affectionately and faithfully,

G. Cabot.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, November 13, 1800.

Dear Sir:

You no doubt have seen my pamphlet respecting the conduct
and character of President Adams. The press teems with replies,
and I may finally think it expedient to publish a second time.
In this case I shall reinforce my charges by new anecdotes. My
friends will, no doubt, be disposed to aid me. You. probably

478 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

possess some which are unknown to me. Pray let me have them
without delay.

You will observe that a prejudice is attempted to be excited
against you as wishing to bring about an alliance with Great
Britain. Explain to me fully this affair. I remember that you
once consulted me about the expediency of the measure, and
that I in reply gave you my opinion. I think it was that the
thing was in any event problematical, that it was not advisable
to go into at the time — that the most prudent course would be
for Great Britain to have a power competent to the purpose
vested in her Minister in this country, and to take the matter ad
referendum to be governed by future circumstances.

I have not a copy of my letter. You will oblige me by
letting me have it.

Yours faithfully and unalterably.

GOODHUE TO HAMILTON.

Salem, November 15, 1800.

My Dear Friend :

I received your pamphlet, for which I thank you. I have
always been of opinion that we have been actuated by a perni-
cious policy in being so silent respecting Mr. A. The public
have been left thereby to form opinions favorable to him, and of
course unfavorable to those who were the objects of his mad
displeasure. I abominate the hypocritical part which we have
been necessitated to act in consequence thereof to promote our
elections, &c.

Our General Court have appointed their electors, and I believe
them all good men. Ames tells me, who was present, that they
wrere alive to the object of having no one chosen who would not
vote for General P., as well as Mr. A. Therefore, take it for

granted, that they may be relied on to that point You

know my wish is, that Mr. P. should be the man, and I would

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 479

even hazard the election of Mr. Jefferson rather than not obtain
my wish. Adieu.

With great regard, I am your faithful

B. Goodhue.

MCHENRY TO HAMILTON.

Baltimore, November 10th, 1800.

* * * * The chief will destroy himself fast enough without
such exposures. Can it happen otherwise to a man (as I wrote
the other day to Mr. Wolcott) who, whether sportful, playful, witty,
kind, cold, drunk, sober, angry, easy, stiff, jealous, careless, cau-
tious, confident, close or open, is so, almost always in the wrong
place, and to the wrong persons.

My great fear is that while he is destroying himself he will
destroy the government also.

Those among the federalists in this State, I mean those
within my observation, the most anxious for the election of Mr.
Adams, pretend to consider the publication of your letter rather
calculated to distract than to do good. Mr. Charles Carroll of
Carrollton, writes me : " I have read Mr. Hamilton's pamphlet.
The drift of its publication at this time, I conjecture, was not so
much with a view of vindicating his character, as to prevent the
electors in Massachusetts from scattering their votes, in order to
secure the election of Mr. Adams, in preference to Mr. Pinckney.
All with whom I have conversed, blame, however, Mr. Hamil-
ton, and consider his publication as ill-timed. Although I pay
deference to the opinion of others, whose motives I know to be
good, yet I cannot help differing from them in this instance. The
assertions of the pamphlet, I take it for granted, are true — and if
true, surely it must be admitted, that Mr. Adams is not fit to be
President, and his unfitness should be made known to the elect-
ors and the public. I conceive it a species of treason to conceal
from the public his incapacity." Let this console you from one
of the wisest, most prudent, and best men in the United States.

480 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

The statement of ray last conversation with the President was
made official, and entered in the letter-book appropriated to re-
cord communications with him. I presume the book containing
it has been burnt with the other records of the department. I wish
the remembrance of it, which harasses my feelings, could have
been destroyed also. The folly, madness, and insatiable vanity of
this man is excited by, and descends to, things the most trifling.

A few days after my dialogue with the President, Tousard
came and told me, — " Well, I have at last seen the President — a
very extraordinary conversation with which he has favored me.
You must not tell, however, that / have seen him." I replied I
would not, as it belonged to valets de chambre only to see great
men. Among other things the President complained in a violent
passion that he was neglected by every officer, for that forts had
been named '•' Pickering, Hamilton, and McHenry," and that not
one of them had been called Adams, except perhaps a diminutive
work at Khode Island. The supple Frenchman no doubt satis-
fied the angry chief, for Tousard informs me, that before his
leaving him, he put his hand on his shoulder, and mildly assured
him he should be appointed colonel of the second regiment of
artillery and engineers in a few days.

When I employed Tousard on the fortifications to the East-
ward, the President wrote me a surly letter upon the subject,
which made it necessary for me to reply, that Tousard had been
employed, because I could find no other person qualified to send
on the business. This pacified the madman, and Tousard was
permitted to remain.

CABOT TO HAMILTON.

Brookline, November 29, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

It is too late to use the letter you inclosed me in Vermont,
and here it is unnecessary. I am satisfied the votes in this State
and New Hamphire will be all for A. and P. You will have

JBn. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 481

seen with some pleasure that our legislature have conducted in
the manner that was predicted by our friend Mr. Lowell, j un. To
his efforts, indeed, much of the success may be attributed.
Some fears are entertained lest the electors in Ehode Island,
though decidedly federal, will not all vote for P. To avert such
a misfortune, Ames has written earnest expostulations, which
will be communicated to the electors or some of the influential
ones, and Mr. Mason, who will be at Providence on Monday,
carries with him a copy of a letter just received by me from Mr.
"Wolcott, containing a paragraph from Judge Washington, ex-
tremely well calculated to induce a fair and equal vote for
Pinckney in New England.

Admitting that your friends " are dismayed " by your letter
concerning Mr. A., it is nevertheless possible you may be right
in publishing it. I am of opinion that no publication of the kind
could have been well received at this time in any part of the
United States, and this opinion is manifestly supported by the
fact —

" Truths would you teach or save a sinking land,
All shun, none aid vou, and few will understand."

So said the man who had more good sense than commonly falls
to the lot of a poet. I don't think the case exactly parallel, yet
I cannot omit to remind you of " Burke's Reflections," which
were reprobated almost universally when they first appeared.
Even those who approved the sentiments, thought the avowal
of them imprudent, and the publication of them untimely.
I wish some one, who is more in the world than I am, and who
feels, if possible, as much interest in every thing that affects
you as I feel, would furnish you with correct information of all
the opinions which are expressed by sensible men, and espe-
cially by your friends; while I cannot conceal that some of
these would be unpleasant to hear, I am persuaded that most of
them are explicable on the principles of human nature, and do
not, in the smallest degree, inculpate the writer. Men are easily
made angry with the messenger of ill news, and they who love
F 31

482 H A MILTON'S WORKS [JEt. 43.

their ease listen with great impatience to those who tell thern
thej must no longer indulge it.

Some who feel great dislike to Mr. Adams, are disappointed
that you have treated him with so much moderation ; they
opened your book with the expectation of seeing Mr. Adams
convicted of designs to involve the country in war with Great
Britain, that he might thus secure to himself the support of those
numerous but mistaken people, whose animosity to Great Britain
is ardent and inveterate. They expected you would describe in
just but glowing colors his pernicious jealousy of Washington's
superior merits and fame, and the intolerance of such a spirit
toward all men who enjoy a great degree of public confidence.
They expected you would have analyzed him so effectually as to
prove that he is and must be but little attached to the support
of public credit and the rights of property ; and that his ideas
respecting commerce and the use it may be put to in our foreign
politics, are more unsound than were Jefferson's or Madison's —
in a word, that war with England, privateering, and paper money,
with all their baneful appendages and consequences, are viewed
by him not as evils to be deprecated, but resources to be prefer-
red to that stable condition aimed at by the Washington system,
which he hates, and which he has been constrained by circum-
stances to support. Yet, the men who looked for all this, acknow-
ledge it would have been highly impolitic and injudicious if you
had executed it. There are others, but they are not numerous,
who think you have done too much already in the crimination
of Mr. Adams — all agree that the execution is masterly, but I
am bound to tell you that you are accused by respectable men of
egotism, and some very worthy and sensible men say you have
exhibited the same vanity in your book, which you charge as a
dangerous quality and great weakness in Mr. Adams. I should
have left it to your enemies to tell you of the censures of your
friends, if I was not persuaded that you cannot possibly mistake
my motives, or doubt of the sincerity of my affection or the great-
ness of my esteem.

Yours faithfully,

George Cabot.

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 483

GEN. GUNN TO HAMILTON.

Washington, December 11th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I have seen a list of the names of the South Carolina electors
— they will all vote for Jefferson and Col. Burr. Gen. Pinckney
will not get one vote. Yours sincerely,

James Gunn.

GEN. GUNN TO HAMILTON.

Washington, December 13th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

The issue of the election of President and Vice President,
so far as it depended upon the individual States, is at length
settled. Jefferson and Burr have the major vote, and it may
with truth be said that John Adams has damned our cause, for
the double chance was lost in South Carolina, owing to General
Pinckney refusing to give up Mr. Adams.

The federalists appear to have no plan ; common danger will
make them unite. Adams is no longer the mar-plot, and your
aid is necessary.

With this view of the subject, permit me to offer for your
consideration, the policy of the federal party extending the influ-
ence of our Judiciary ; if neglected by the federalists, the ground
will be occupied by the enemy the very next session of Congress,

and, sir, we shall see and many other scoundrels, placed on the

seat of Justice. Within two years the Senate will be democratic
— at the commencement of Jefferson's administration the Sena-
tors will stand 17 federal and 15 anti-federal.

Men of sense, in every State, must go into the State legisla-
tures, and mind for future events. With the aid of some judicious
management, the federal party will unite in every quarter, and,

484 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 43.

in future men of sense will be preferred, and the bloated pride
of an individual treated with disdain.

Gen. Davie arrived with the treaty last evening. I learn
from him, that Mr. Ellsworth was landed in the British empire,
and intends returning to France for the benefit of his health.

It is the opinion of all well-informed men in Europe, that a
treaty of partition will be concluded by the great powers, and
the lesser powers used as small change.

Yours sincerely, &c.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON.

Easton (Pennsylvania), Dec. 14, 1800.

My Dear Sir :

After an absence of four months in the woods, I returned
hither on the evening of the 10th instant, and this is the first
opportunity of acknowledging the receipt of your letter of the
13th ult.

A few days before I left the woods, I received, from a friend
in Philadelphia, your pamphlet concerning the conduct and
character of President Adams. You say the press teems with
replies. I have yet seen none of them, and therefore cannot
tell what facts or anecdotes would be useful or pertinent in your
future publications, and as you desired such communications
" without delay," it would now probably be too late to make them.

That I ever wished to bring about an alliance with Great
Britain, to link our interest and our fate with hers, cannot be
true. But when in 1798, I, in common with others, discerned a
rupture with France almost inevitable, it was certainly natural
and proper to think what would be the most effectual means of
carrying on the war ; and as natural to think some plan of co-
operation with Great Britain, then at war with France, for our
mutual safety and advantage against a common enemy, to be ex-
pedient. But as it was this expected rupture with France, which

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 485

alone led me to think of some connection with Great Britain, so
my ideas never went beyond that object.

You remember that I wrote to you on this subject, and that
you replied — that I requested your opinion, and that you gave
it against going immediately into an alliance with Great Britain.
Your recollection is correct. I have sought for and found the
letters. If you preserved mine, you will find it under the date
of March 25th, 1798, and which refers to another of the same
date, giving an account of the recent conduct of the French
government towards the United States. I subjoin an extract,
containing every syllable that I wrote you on the subject of any
connection with Great Britain.

(Extract.)

What shall we say to the British Government ? You hint at nothing. The
opposition party have often insinuated that a treaty, offensive and defensive, has
doubtless been already concluded with Great Britain. A friend of mine yester-
day told me that he was asked if such a treaty had not arrived. The truth is,
that not one syllable has been written to Mr. King, or any one else, upon the
subject. I confess it to have been my opinion for some time that provisional
orders should be sent to Mr. King. Mr. King, in one of his latest letters, desires
to bo particularly instructed. The dispatch boat* may be directed to go from
France to England with such instructions, which will be in cipher, or may go
directly to Falmouth, and there may ascertain whether our envoys are, or are not
in France.

Your ideas communicated on this subject, and on the facts
stated in the inclosed, will be highly acceptable to me. I wish
to receive them on Wednesday.

Agreeable to your request, I inclose your original of March
27, 1798, in answer to the above.

With true respect and esteem,

I remain, my dear Sir, ever yours,

Timothy Pickering.

* The dispatch boat was the United States brig Sophia, then going to France
with orders to the envoys relative to their return.

486 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

New-York, Dec. 16th, 1800.

It is now, my dear sir. ascertained that Jefferson or Burr
will be President, and it seems probable that they will come
with equal votes to the House of Eepresentatives. It is also
circulated here, that, in this event, the federalists in Congress, or
some of them, talk of preferring Burr. I trust New England, at
least, will not so far lose its head as to fall into this snare. There
is no doubt but that, upon every virtuous and prudent calcula-
tion, Jefferson is to be preferred. He is by far not so dangerous
a man ; and he has pretensions to character.

As to Burr, there is nothing in his favor. His private char-
acter is not defended by his most partial friends. He is bank-
rupt beyond redemption, except by the plunder of his country.
His public principles have no other spring or aim than his own
aggrandisement, per fas et nefas. If he can, he will certainly dis-
turb our institutions, to secure to himself permanent power, and
with it wealth. He is truly the Catiline of America ; and, if I
may credit Majpr Wilcocks, he has held very vindictive lan-
guage respecting his opponents.

But early measures must be taken to fix on this point the
opinions of the federalists. Among them, from different mo-
tives, Burr will find partisans. If the thing be neglected, he
may possibly go far.

Yet it may be well enough to throw out a lure for him, in
order to tempt him to start for the plate, and then lay the foun-
dation of dissension between the two chiefs.

You may communicate this letter to Marshall and Sedgwick.
Let me hear speedily from you.

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 487

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

December 17, 1800.

Your last letter, my dear sir, has given me great pain ; not
only because it informed me that the opinion in favor of Mr.
Burr was increasing among the federalists, but because it also
told me that Mr. was one of its partisans. I have a

letter from this gentleman, in which he expresses decidedly his
preference of Mr. Jefferson. I hope you have been mistaken,
and that it is not possible for him to have been guilty of so great
duplicity.

There is no circumstance which has occurred in the course of
our political affairs, that has given me so much pain as the idea
that Mr. Burr might be elevated to the Presidency, by the means
of the federalists. I am' of opinion, that this party has hitherto
solid claims of merit with the public, and so long as it does
nothing to forfeit its title to confidence, I shall continue to hope
that our misfortunes are temporary, and that the party will ere
long emerge from its depression. But if it shall act a foolish or
unworthy part in any capital instance, I shall then despair.

Such without doubt will be the part it will act, if it shall seri-
ously attempt to support Mr. Burr, in opposition to Mr. Jeffer-
son. If it fails, as after all is not improbable, it will have riveted
the animosity of that person, will have destroyed or weakened
the motives to moderation which he must at present feel, and it
will expose them to the disgrace of a defeat in an attempt to ele-
vate to the first place of the government, one of the worst men in
the community.

If it succeeds, it will have done nothing more nor less, than
place in that station a man who will possess the boldness and
daring necessary to give success to the Jacobin system, instead
of one, who for want of that quality, will be less fitted to pro-
mote it.

Let it not be imagined that Mr. Burr can be won to the
federal views. It is a vain hope. Stronger ties, and stronger in-
ducements than they can offer, will impel him in a different direc-

488 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 43.

tion. His ambition will not be content with those objects which
virtuous men, of either party, will allot to it, and his situation
and his habits will oblige him to have recourse to corrupt ex-
pedients, from which he will be restrained by no moral scruple.
To accomplish his end, he must lean upon unprincipled men, and
will continue to adhere to the myrmidons, who have hitherto
surrounded him. To these he will no doubt add able rogues of
the federal party, but he will employ the rogues of all parties, to
overrule the good men of all parties, and to prosecute projects
which wise men of every description will disapprove.

These things are to be inferred with moral certainty from the
character of the man. Every step in his career, proves that he
has formed himself upon the model of Catiline, and he is too
cold-blooded, and too determined a conspirator ever to change
his plan.

What would you think of these toasts and this conversation
at his table within the last three or four weeks ?

1st. The French republic.

2d. The Commissioners on both sides who instigated the
Convention.

3d. Bonaparte.

4th. La Fayette.

(What would you think of his having seconded the positions
that it was the interest of this country to allow the belligerent
powers to bring in and sell their prizes, and build and equip
ships in our ports ? Can it be doubted that a man who has all
his life speculated upon the popular prejudices, will consult
them in the object of a war when he thinks it is expedient to
make one? Can a man who, despising democracy, has chimed
in with all its absurdities, be diverted from the plan of ambition
which must have directed his course? They who suppose it
must understand little of human nature.)

If Jefferson is President, the whole responsibility of bad mea-
sures will rest with the anti-federalists. If Burr is made so by
the federalists, the whole responsibility will rest with them. The
other party will say to the people, We intended him only for Vice-
President ; true, he might have done very well, or been at least

/Et. 43.J CORRESPONDENCE. 489

harmless. But the federalists, to disappoint us, and a majority
of you took advantage of a momentary superiority to put him in
the first place. He is therefore their President, and they must
answer for all the evils of his bad conduct. And the people will
believe them.

Will any reasonable calculation on the part of the federalists
uphold the policy of assuming so great a responsibility in the
support of so unpromising a character ? The negative is so mani-
fest, that, had I not been assured of the contrary, I should have
thought it impossible that assent to it would have been attended
with a moment's hesitation.

Alas ! when will men consult their reason rather than their
passions ? Whatever they may imagine, the desire of mortifying
the adverse party must be the chief spring of the disposition to
prefer Mr. Burr. This disposition reminds me of the conduct of
the Dutch moneyed men, who, from their hatred of the old aristo-
cracy, favored the admission of the French into Holland to over-
turn every thing.

Adieu to the federal Troy if they one introduce this Grecian
horse into their citadel.

Trust me, my dear friend, you cannot render a greater ser-
vice to your country, than to resist this project. Far better will
it be to endeavor to obtain from Jefferson assurances on some
cardinal points.

1st. The preservation of the actual fiscal system.

2d. Adherence to the neutral plan.

3d. The preservation and gradual increase of the navy.

4th. The continuance of our friends in the offices they fill,
except in the great departments, in which he ought to be left
free.

490 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

OTIS TO HAMILTON.

Washington, December 17th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

There exists the strongest probability that the electoral votes
are equally divided between Messrs. Jefferson and Burr. We
have certain advices from South Carolina and Georgia, and wait
only for intelligence from Kentucky and Tennessee to ascertain
the fact. The gentlemen of the opposition are of opinion that
this will be the case. The question now is, in what mode shall the
friends of the federal government take advantage of this casu-
alty ? Can any terms be obtained from Mr. Burr favorable to
the true interest of the country, and is he a man who will adhere
to terms when stipulated ? Is it advisable to attempt a negotia-
tion with him — and in what manner and through what channel
shall it be conducted ? We are inclined to believe that some
advantage may be derived from it, but few of us have a personal
acquaintance with Mr. Burr. It is palpable that to elect him
would be to cover the opposition with chagrin, and to sow among
them the seeds of a morbid division. But whether in any event
he would act with the friends to the Constitution, or endeavor to
redeem himself with his old party by the violence of his meas-
ures and the overthrow of the Constitution, is a doubt which you
may assist us to resolve. Your local situation and personal ac-
quaintance with these men and the state of parties, enables you
to give an opinion upon a subject in which all the friends to the
country have a common interest, and if you can venture to re-
pose confidence in me, I will most solemnly pledge myself that
your sentiments shall be reserved within my own breast, or com-
municated only to those whom you may designate. Should our
expectation be realized, which we shall know in a day or two, is
it advisable to send a messenger to New-York to confer with
friends there, or attempt to bring Mr. Burr here ? What should
be the outlines of an agreement with him, and (alas ! it is a dif-
ficult question,) what security can be devised for his adherence
to it?

Mt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 491

I am anxious to act correctly and judiciously. It would be
distressing to omit or misdirect an effort which might be ben-
eficial to the country, or preserve the Constitution, and I presume
that honor and duty will sanction every endeavor to preserve it,
even by an ineligible instrument. The treaty is before the
Senate, and I believe will be found another chapter in the book
of humiliation.

All claims for spoliation, it is said, are suspended during the
war, all public ships captured by each party are to be surrender-
ed, and in the language of the case of Bullum v. Boatum, after
paying all costs we are permitted to begin again de novo. It is
very doubtful in my mind whether the Senate ratify.

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON".

Washington, December 17th, 1800.

Dear Sir :

The substance of the convention with France will, I presume,
be known publicly in a few days. In the mean time I commu-
nicate, in confidence, some part of its character. It contains no
stipulation for satisfaction of the injuries we have received. It
makes the treaty of '78 a subject of future negotiation. It en-
gages that we shall return, in the condition they now are, all our
captures. It makes neutral bottoms a protection to their cargoes,
and it contains a stipulation directly in violation of the 25th arti-
cle of our treaty with Great Britain. Such are the blessed effects
of our mission ! These are the ripened fruits of this independent
administration ! Our friends in the Senate are not enough recov-
ered from their astonishment to begin to reflect on the course
they shall pursue. After this information, it will be needless to
add, that the mind, as well as body of Mr. Ellsworth, are render-
ed feeble by disease. He has resigned as chief justice.

The votes in Georgia ace given equally for Jefferson and
Burr. It is generally supposed they will be so in Kentucky and

492 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 42.

Tennessee. This has rendered the Jacobins in the House more
civil in their attentions than I have ever known them. Should
the House have to decide between these rivals, my opinion would
prefer the former for reasons which will readily occur to you. In
this, many of my friends differ from me. They suppose that
Burr, if preferred, will be compelled to throw himself into the
hands of the federal party.

GENERAL GUNN TO HAMILTON.

Washington, December 18th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I presume some of your friends will furnish you with a copy
of the French convention. The thing is detestable. The inde-
pendence of our country humbled to the dust.

The President this day nominated Mr. Jay chief justice. Mr.
Ellsworth resigned. Mr. Jay, having once declined the office of
chief judge, it is no compliment to re-appoint him to that office —
nor was it decent to wound the feelings of Judge Patterson^
Either Judge Patterson or General Pinckney ought to have been
appointed ; but both those worthies are your friends.

Jefferson and Burr, as yet, have an equal vote; and it is gen-
erally believed they will each have seventy- three votes. It is prob-
able that the federalists will have to choose among rotten apples.

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Washington, December 19th, 1800.

My Dear Sir :

In company this day, I heard much said about the treaty
brought to us by Mr. Dacre ; wherefore, as it is now a subject of

vEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 493

public conversation, those restraints which I had imposed on
myself are removed, and I take the earliest opportunity of say-
ing one word about it to you.

The negotiation appears to have been very well conducted on
the part of France, and the result is probably equal to her wishes.
It contains, among other things, a stipulation that, as the parties
cannot agree about the old treaties, nor the indemnities mutually
due, or claimed, they will negotiate further about them at a con-
venient period, and until they shall have agreed on those points,
the treaty shall have no operation, but the relations of the two
countries shall be regulated by that convention; that public
ships, which have been, or may be taken, shall be mutually re-
stored ; that property captured and not yet definitely condemn-
ed, shall be restored on proof of ownership ; that debts shall be
paid ; that the vessels of the two nations, and their privateers
as well as their prizes, shall be treated in the respective ports
of each other, as those of the nation the most favored ; that
free ships shall make free goods, and the converse ; that when
neutral ships are convoyed, the word of the officer commanding
the convoy shall be taken, and no visit allowed ; that when arm-
ed ships shall be permitted to enter with their prizes, they shall
not be obliged to pay any duty, nor shall the prizes be seized,
nor shall the officers of the place make examination concerning
the lawfulness of such prizes ; but this stipulation is not to ex-
tend beyond the most favored nation ; that privateers belonging
to an enemy shall not fit their ships, sell or exchange their prizes,
or purchase provisions, except what may be needful to go to the
next ports of their own country. Finally, this convention is un-
limited in its duration.

Such, my dear sir, is the result of our French negotiation,
which evidently places us in a critical situation.

It is supposed that Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Burr will have
equal votes, and various speculations are made and making on
that subject. At first it was proposed to prevent any election, and
thereby throw the government into the hands of a President of
the Senate. It even went so far as to cast about for the person.
This appeared to me a wild measure, and I endeavored to dis-

494 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

suade those gentlemen from it, who mentioned it to me. It
seems now to be given up. The object with many is to take Mr.
Burr, and I should not be surprised if that measure were adopt-
ed. Not meaning to enter into intrigues, I have merely ex-
pressed the opinion, that since it was evidently the intention of
our fellow-citizens to make Mr. Jefferson their President, it seems
proper to fulfil that intention.

The answer is simple, and on mere reasoning conclusive, but
it is conclusive to unimpassioned sentiment. Let the represen-
tatives do what they may, they will not want arguments to justify
them, and the situation of our countrj (doomed perhaps to sustain,
unsupported, a war against France or England) seems, indeed, to
call for a vigorous practical man. Mr. Burr Avill, it is said, come
hither, and some who pretend to know his views think he will
bargain with the federalists. Of such a bargain, I shall know
nothing, and have declared my determination to support the con-
stitutionally-appointed administration, so long as its acts shall
not in my judgment be essentially wrong. My personal line of
conduct gives me no difficulty, but I am not without serious ap-
prehension for the future state of things.

The anti-federal party is, beyond question, the most numerous
at present ; and should they be disappointed in their expectation
as to the President, they will generally, I believe, oppose the
government with embittered rancor. The best federalists will,
I apprehend, support but feebly a man whom (unj ustly perhaps)
they consider as void of principle ; and a government whose force
lies in public opinion, will, under such circumstances, be critically
situated.

I should do injustice to my opinion of your intuitive judg-
ment, should I dilate any farther. You are better acquainted
with characters and opinions than I possibly can be ; and your
ideas will have weight on the minds of many here, should you
think proper to transmit them through some accustomed channel
of communication. The subject is certainly of high considera-
tion, and the circumstances of the moment are of peculiar delicacy.

Mt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 495

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York. December 22d. 1800.

I entirely agree with you, my dear sir, that in the event of
Jefferson and Burr coming to the Ilouse of Eepresentatives, the
former is to be preferred. The appointment of Burr as President
would disgrace our country abroad. No agreement with him
could be relied upon. His private circumstances render disorder
a necessary resource. His public principles offer no obstacle.
His ambition aims at nothing short of permanent power and
wealth in his own person. For Heaven's sake, let not the federal
party be responsible for the elevation of this man.

The convention with France is just such an isssue as was to
have been expected. It plays into the hands of France by the
precedent of those principles of navigation, which she is at this
moment desirous of making the basis of a league of the northern
powers against England. This feature will be peculiarly disa-
greeable to the latter; and, as it relates to the general politics of
the world, is a make-weight in the wrong scale.

The stipulation about privateers and prizes is of questionable
propriety. If third powers are entitled to the benefit of annul-
ling our treaties with France, it is a plain violation of our com-
pact with Great Britain.

But I rather think it the better opinion, that pending the
differences which produced that measure, it is a matter purely
between France and ourselves, by which no third power has a
right to profit ; and that even the statu quo would not have been
a violation of our engagements with Great Britain.

Thus situated, I am of opinion the treaty must be ratified.
The contrary condition would, I think, utterly ruin the federal
party, and endanger our internal tranquillity. Moreover, it is
better to close the thing where it is, than leave it to a Jacobin
administration to do much worse.

This is a deliberately formed sentiment, and I hope, will ac-
cord with the conclusions of our friends. At the same time, I
wish it to be declared by our friends in the Senate, that they
think the treaty liable to strong objections, and pregnant with

496 II A MILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 43.

dangers to the interests of this country ; but having been nego-
tiated, they will not withold their assent.
Keasons should be given.

HAMILTON TO GOVERNEUR MORRIS.

New-York, December 24,1800.

Dear Sir:

I will run the risk with you of giving countenance to a
charge lately brought against me, though it has certainly had a
very false direction. I mean that of being fond of giving advice.

Several friends at Washington inform me, that there is likely
to be much hesitation in the Senate about ratifying the conven.
tion with France. I do not wonder at it, and yet I should be
sorry that it should mature itself into a disagreement to the in-
strument. Having received its present form, I think it should be
ratified.

In my opinion there is nothing in it contrary to our treaty
with Great Britain. The annulling of our former treaties with
France was an act of reprisal in consequence of hostile differ-
ences, of which no other power had a right to benefit; and
which, upon an accommodation, might have been rescinded, even
to the restoration of the statu quo. Great Britain is now in this
respect in a better situation than she was when she made the
treaty. She has so far no good cause to complain.

There are, indeed, features which will not be pleasant to the
British cabinet, particularly the principle that, free ships shall
make free goods, and that the flag of ships of war shall protect.
As these are points upon which France was endeavoring to form
hostile combinations against Great Britain, the giving place to
them in the convention will have an unfriendly countenance
towards her ; and as it regards good understanding between her
and us, is to be regretted in the present moment. Yet we had a
right to make these stipulations, and as they may be fairly sup-
posed to be advantageous to us, they are not in fact indications of

JEt. 43.] CORRESPONDENCE. 497

enmity. They give no real cause of umbrage, and considering
the general interests of Great Britain, and her particular situation,
it does not seem probable that they will produce on her part a
hostile conduct.

As to the indemnification for spoliations, that was rather to
be wished than expected, while France is laying the world under
contribution. The people of this country will not endure that a
definitive rupture with France shall be hazarded on this ground.

If this convention is not closed, the leaving of the whole sub-
ject open will render it easier for the Jacobin administration to
make a worse thing.

On the whole, the least evil is to ratify. The contrary would
finish the ruin of the federal party, and endanger our internal
tranquillity. It is better to risk the dangers on the other hand,
than on this side.

Another subject. Jefferson or Burr? the former without all
doubt. The latter, in my judgment, has no principle, public or
private; could be bound by no agreement; will listen to no
monitor but his ambition ; and for this purpose will use the
worst part of the community as a ladder to climb to permanent
power, and an instrument to crush the better part. He is bank-
rupt beyond redemption, except by the resources that grow out
of war and disorder ; or by a sale to a foreign power, or by great
peculation. War with Great Britain would be the immediate
instrument. He is sanguine enough to hope every thing, dar-
ing enough to attempt every thing, wicked enough to scruple
nothing. From the elevation of such a man may heaven pre-
serve the country !

Let our situation be improved to obtain from Jefferson as-
surances on certain points ; the maintenance of the present sys-
tem, especially on the cardinal articles of public credit — a navy,
neutrality. Make any discreet use you may think fit of this
letter.
498 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

WOLCOTT TO HAMILTON.

(private.)

Washington, December 25th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I have received your favor of the 16th and 17th ; that of the
16th I communicated to Mr. Marshall and Mr. Sedgwick. The
first has yet expressed no opinion. The last mentioned gentle-
man has been inclined to support Mr. Burr, and this, I find, ap-
pears to be a prevailing and increasing sentiment of the federal-
ists. With what degree of seriousness the intention is formed,
and whether it can succeed, are points upon which no opinion
can be given. It will be well to bring the attention of our east-
ern friends to the subject, that their ideas may be seasonably
communicated to the gentlemen in Congress.

An attempt will be made to enact the new Judiciary bill. It
is probable that it will succeed, but what appointments shall we
have ?

You will be afflicted on reading the treaty with France. Mr.
Ellsworth's health is, I fear, destroyed. He has resigned his
office, and the President has sported a nomination of Mr. Jay,
who will not accept the appointment. It is probable that the
treaty will undergo some modification by the Senate.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

New- York, December 26th, 1800.

Dear Sir:

The post of yesterday gave me the pleasure of a letter from
you. I thank you for the communication. I trust that a letter
which I wrote you the day before the receipt of yours will have
duly reached you, as it contains some very free and confidential
observations ending in two results.

jEt.43.] correspondence. 409

1st. That the convention with France ought to be ratified as
the least of two evils.

2d. That on the same ground Jefferson ought to be preferred
to Burr.

I trust the federalists will not be so mad as to vote for the
latter. I speak with an intimate and accurate knowledge of
character. His elevation can only promote the purposes of the
desperate and profligate.

If there be a man in the world I ought to hate, it is Jeffer-
son. With Burr I have always been personally well. But the
public good must be paramount to every private consideration.

My opinion may be freely used with such reserves as you
shall think discreet.

HAMILTON TO BAYARD.

Nk.w-Yohk, December 27, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Several letters to myself and others from the city of Wash-
ington, excite in my mind extreme alarm on the subject of the
future President. It seems nearly ascertained that Jefferson and
Burr will come into the House of Eepresentatives with equal
votes, and those letters express the probability that the federal
party may prefer the latter. In my opinion a circumstance more
ruinous to them, or more disastrous to the country, could not
happen.

This opinion is dictated by a long and close attention to the
character of B., with the best opportunities of knowing it — an
advantage of judging, which, few of our friends possess; and
which ought to give some weight to my opinion.

Be assured, my dear sir, that this man has no principle, pub-
lic nor private. As a politician, his sole spring of action is an
inordinate ambition ; as an individual, he is believed by friends
as well as foes to be without probity ; and a voluptuary by system
— with habits of expense that can be satisfied by no fair expe-

500 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 43.

dients. As to his talents, great management and cunning are the
predominant features ; he is yet to give proofs of those solid
abilities which characterize the statesman. Daring and energy
must be allowed him ; but these qualities under the direction of
the worst passions, are certainly strong objections, not recom-
mendations. He is of a temper to undertake the most hazardous
enterprises, because he- is sanguine enough to think nothing im-
practicable ; and of an ambition that will be content with nothing
less than permanent power in his own hands. The maintenance
of the existing institutions will not suit him ; because, under
them, his power will be too narrow and too precarious. Yet the
innovations he may attempt, will not offer the substitute of a
system durable and safe, calculated to give lasting prosperity, and
to unite liberty with strength. It will be the system of the day
sufficient to serve his own turn, and not looking beyond himself.
To execute this plan, as the good men of the country cannot be
relied upon, the worst will be used. Let it not be imagined that
the difficulties of execution will deter, or a calculation of interest
restrain. The truth is, that under forms of government like
ours, too much is practicable to men who will, without scruple,
avail themselves of the bad passions of human nature. To a
man of this description, possessing the requisite talents, the ac-
quisition of permanent power is not a chimera. I know that Mr.
Burr does not view it as such, and I am sure there are no means
too atrocious to be employed by him. In debt, vastly beyond
his means of payment, with all the habits of excessive expense,
he cannot be satisfied with the regular emoluments of any
office of our government. Corrupt expedients will be to him a
necessary resource. "Will any prudent man offer such a President
to the temptations of foreign gold ? No engagement that can be
made with him can be depended upon while making it ; he will
laugh in his sleeve at the credulity of those with whom he makes
it; — and the first moment it suits his views to break it, he will
do so.* Let me add, that I could scarcely name a discreet man

* A recent incident will give you an idea of his views as to foreign politics. I
dined with him lately. His toasts were, " The French Republic," " The Commis-
sioners who negotiated the Convention, " Buonaparte," "The Marquis La Fayette."

Mr. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 501

of either party in our State, who does not think^Mr. Burr the
most unfit man in the United States for the office of President.
Disgrace abroad, ruin at home, are the probable fruits of his
elevation. To contribute to the disappointment and mortification
of Mr. J., would be, on my part, only to retaliate for unequivocal
proofs of enmity ; but in a case like this, it would be base to listen
to personal considerations. In alluding to the situation, I mean
only to illustrate how strong must be the motives which induce
me to promote his elevation in exclusion of another.

For heaven's sake, my dear sir, exert yourself to the utmost
to save our country from so great a calamity. Let us not be
responsible for the evils, which in all probability will follow the
preference. All calculations that may lead to it must prove
fallacious.

Accept the assurances of my esteem,

A. Hamilton.

JOHN MARSHALL TO HAMILTON.

January 1st, 1801.

Dear Sir:

I received this morning your letter of the 26th of December.
It is, I believe, certain that Jefferson and Burr will come to the
House of Eepresentatives with equal votes. The returns have
been all received, and this is the general opinion.

Being no longer in the House of Representatives, and conse-
quently compelled by no duty to decide between them, my own
mind had scarcely determined to which of these gentlemen the
preference was due. To Mr. Jefferson, whose political character

His doctrines, that it would be the interest of this country to permit the indiscrimi-
nate sale of prizes by the belligerent powers ; and the building and equipment of
vessels — a project amounting to nothing more nor less (with the semblance of
equality), than to turn all our naval resources into the channel of France, and com-
pel Great Britain to war. Indeed Mr. Burr must have war, as the instrument of
his ambition and cupidity. The peculiarity of the occasion will excuse my men-
tioning in confidence the occurrences of a private table.

502 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44.

is better known than that of Mr. Burr, I have felt almost insu-
perable objections. His foreign prejudices seem to me totally to
unfit him for the chief magistracy of a nation which cannot
indulge those prejudices without sustaining deep and permanent
injury. In addition to this solid and immovable objection, Mr.
Jefferson appears to me to be a man who will embody himself
with the House of Eepresentatives. By weakening the office of
President, he will increase his personal power. He will diminish
his responsibility, sap the fundamental principles of the govern-
ment, and become the leader of that party which is about to
constitute the majority of the legislature. The morals of the
author of the letter to Mazzei cannot be pure.

With these impressions concerning Mr. Jefferson, I was in
some degree disposed to view with less apprehension any other
characters, and to consider the alternative now offered as a cir-
cumstance not to be entirely neglected.

Your representation of Mr. Burr, with whom I am totally
unacquainted, shows that from him still greater danger than
even from Mr. Jefferson may be apprehended. Such a man as
you describe is more to be feared, and may do more immediate,
if not greater, mischief. Believing that you know him well, and
are impartial, my preference would certainly not be for him ;
but I can take no part in this business. I cannot bring myself
to aid Mr. Jefferson. Perhaps respect for myself should, in my
present situation, deter me from using any influence (if, indeed,
I possessed any) in support of either gentleman. Although no
consideration could induce me to be the Secretary of State while
there was a President whose political system I believed to be at
variance with my own, yet this cannot be so well known to
others, and it might be suspected that a desire to be well with
the successful candidate had, in some degree, governed my
conduct.

With you I am in favor of ratifying our treaty with France,
though I am far, very far, from approving it. There is, however,
one principle which I think it right to explain.

Our envoys were undoubtedly of opinion that our prior
treaty with Britain would retain its stipulated advantages, and I

jEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 503

think that opinion correct. Was our convention with any other
natitn than France, I should Peel no solicitude ou this subject.

But France, the most encroaching nation on earth, will claim a
literal interpretation, and our people will decide in her favor.
Those who could contend that a promise not to permit privateers
of the enemy of France, to be fitted out in our ports, amounted
to a grant of that privilege to France, would not hesitate to
contend that a stipulation giving to France, on the subject of
privateers and prizes, the privileges of the most favored nation,
placed her on equal ground with any other nation whatever. In
consequence of this temper in our country, I think the ratifica-
tion of the treaty ought to be accompanied with a declaration of
the sense in which it is agreed to. This, however, is only my
own opinion.

With very much respect and esteem,

I am, dear Sir, yours obediently,

J. Marshall.

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Washington, January 5th, 1801.

My Dear Sir:

I have received your favors of the 24th and 25th of last
month, I am much obliged by both.

The convention with France will be ratified sub modo.
Such, at least, is my opinion. I wish first to strike out the 2d
and 3d article ; secondly, to fix a limitation of time. The 2d
article, by suspending the operation, admits the existence of
former treaties. The restitution of our trophies stipulated by
the third, may damp the spirit of our country. That nation,
which will permit profit or convenience to stand in competition
with honor, is on the steep descent to ruin. If, with the excep-
tion of those articles, and a limitation of time, the convention be
mutually ratified, I shall think it no bad bargain. Will the
French Consul ratify it when so curtailed and limited? Per-

•304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44-

haps, if his affairs are prosperous, he will not. Some gentlemen
propose adding a clause, to declare that it shall not prejralice
former treaties. This appears dangerous, because, if afterwards
ratified without that clause, such ratification may be construed
as an assent to the conclusion, which the declaration was in-
tended to obviate.

On the election between Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Burr, there is
much speculation. Some, indeed most, of our eastern friends
are warm in support of the latter, and their pride is so much up
about the charge of influence, that it is dangerous to quote an
opinion. I trust they will change or be disappointed, for they
appear to be moved by passion only. I have, more at the re-
quest of others than from my own mere motion, suggested certain
considerations not quite unworthy of attention ; but it is danger-
ous to be impartial in politics. You, who are temperate in
drinking, have never, perhaps, noticed the awkward situation of
a man who continues sober after the company are drunk.

Adieu, my dear Hamilton. God bless you, and send you
many happy years.

HAMILTON TO LA FAYETTE.

New-York, January 6th, 1801.
I have been made happy, my dear friend, by the receipt of
your letter of the 12th August last. No explanation of your
political principles was necessary to satisfy me of the perfect con-
sistency and purity of your conduct. The interpretation may
always be left to my attachment to you. "Whatever difference
of opinion may on any occasion exist between us, can never
lessen my conviction of the goodness both of your head and
heart. I expect from you a return of this sentiment as far as
concerns the heart. It is needless to detail to }^ou my political
tenets. I shall only say that I hold, with Montesquieu, that a
government must be fitted to a nation as much as a coat to an in-

JEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 505

dividual ; and consequently, what may be good at Philadelphia
may be bad at Paris, and ridiculous at Petersburgh.

I join with you in regretting the misunderstanding between
our two countries. You will have seen by the President's speech,
that a door is again opened for terminating them amicably ; and
you may be assured that we are sincere, and that it is in the
power of France, by reparation to our merchants for past injury,
and the stipulation of justice in future, to put an end to the con-
troversy.

But I do not like much the idea of your being in any way
implicated in the affair, lest you should be compromitted in the
opinion of one or the other of the parties.

It is my opinion, that it is best for you to stand aloof; neither
have I abandoned the idea that it is most advisable for you to
remain in Europe till the difference is adjusted. It would be
very difficult for you here to steer a course which would not place
you in a party, and remove you from the broad ground which
you now occupy in the hearts of all. It is a favorite point with
me, that you shall find in the universal regard of this country all
the consolations which the loss of your own (for so I consider it)
may render requisite.

Believe me always,

Your very cordial and faithful friend,

A. H.

BAYARD TO HAMILTON".

Washington, January 7th, 1801.

Dear Sir:

I have been but a few days in this city, but since my arrival
have had the pleasure to receive the letter which you did me the
honor to write on the 7th ult. I am fully sensible of the great
importance of the subject to which it relates, and am therefore
extremely obliged by the information you have been so obliging
as to communicate.

506 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

You have probably seen a letter addressed by Colonel Burr
to General Smith, constituting him his proxy to disavow the
least desire on his part to interfere with the intention of his party
to place Mr. Jefferson in the chair of President.

I mention this letter merely for the opportunity of stating,
that it is here understood to have proceeded, either from a false
calculation as to the result of the electoral votes, or was intended
as a cover to blind his own party.

By persons friendly to Mr. Burr, it is distinctly stated, that
he is willing to consider the federalists as his friends, and to ac-
cept the office of President as their gift.

I take it for granted that Mr. Burr would not only gladly
accept the office, but will neglect no means in his power to secure
it. Certainly, he cannot succeed without the aid of the federal-
ists, and it is even much to be doubted whether their concurrence
will give him the requisite number of States. It is considered,
that at least in the first instance, Georgia, North Carolina, Vir-
ginia, Tennessee, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and
New- York, will vote for Mr. Jefferson. It is probable that
Maryland and Vermont will be divided ; it is therefore counted
that upon the first ballot, it would be possible to give to Mr.
Burr six votes. It is calculated, however, and strongly insisted
by some gentlemen, that a persevering opposition to Mr. Jeffer-
son would bring over New- York, New Jersey, and Maryland.
What is the probability relative to New-York, your means en-
able you to form the most correct opinion. As to New Jersey
and Maryland, it would depend upon Mr. Lynn, of the former,
and Mr. Dent, of the latter State.

I assure you, sir, there appears to be a strong inclination in a
majority of the federal party to support Mr. Burr. The current
has already acquired considerable force, and manifestly increas-
ing. The vote which the representation of a State enables me
to give would decide the question in favor of Mr. Jefferson. At
present I am by no means decided as to the object of preference.
If the federal party should "take up Mr. Burr, I ought certainly
to be impressed with the most undoubting conviction before I
separated myself from them. With respect to the personal

^Et. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 507

qualities of the competitors, I should fear as much from the sin-
cerity of Mr. Jefferson (if he is sincere), as from the want of pro-
bity in Mr. Burr. There would be really cause to fear that the
government would not survive the course of moral and political
experiments to which it would be subjected in the hands of Mr.
Jefferson. But there is another view of the subject which gives
me some inclination in favor of Burr. I consider the State am-
bition of Virginia as the source of present party. The faction
who govern that State, aim to govern the United States. Vir-
ginia will never be satisfied but when this state of things exists.
If Burr should be the President, they will not govern, and his
acceptance of the office, which would disappoint their views,
which depend upon Jefferson, would, I apprehend, immediately
create a schism in the party which would soon rise into open op-
position.

I cannot deny, however, that there are strong considerations,
which give a preference to Mr. Jefferson. The subject admits of
many doubtful views, and before I resolve on the part I shall
take, I shall wait the approach of the crisis which may probably
bring with it circumstances decisive of the event. The federal
party meet on Friday, for the purpose of forming a resolution as
to their line of conduct. I have not the least doubt of their
agreeing to support Burr. Their determination will not bind me,
for though it might cost me a painful struggle to disappoint the
views and wishes of many gentlemen with whom I have been
accustomed to act, yet the magnitude of the subject forbids the
sacrifice of a strong conviction.

I cannot answer for the coherence of my letter, as I have un-
dertaken to write to you from the Chamber of Representatives,
with an attention divided by the debate which occupies the
House.

I have not considered myself at liberty to show your letter to
any one, though I think it would be serviceable if you could
trust my discretion in the communication of it.

I am, with great consideration, &c.

508 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 44.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

New- York, January 9th, 1801.

I have lately, my dear sir, written you two letters. As they
contained some delicate topics, I shall be glad to know that they
got to hand.

It has occurred to me that perhaps the federalists may be dis-
posed to play the game of preventing an election, and leaving the
executive power in the hands of a future President of the Senate.
This, if it could succeed, would be, for obvious reasons, a most
dangerous and unbecoming policy. But it is well it should be
understood that it cannot succeed. The anti-federalists, as a
body, prefer Jefferson ; but among them are many who will be
better suited by the dashing, projecting spirit of Burr ; and who,
after doing what they will suppose to be saving appearances, they
will go over to Mr. Burr. Edward Livingston has declared
among his friends, that his first ballot will be for Jefferson — his
second for Burr.

The present is a crisis which demands the exertions of men
who have an interest in public order.

GUNN TO HAMILTON.

Washington, January 9th. 1801.

Dear Sir:

I have received your favor of the 24th ult. It is probable
a rejection of the French convention would excite some un-
pleasant feeling in America. But its ratification would be dis-
honorable. The second and third articles were rejected by very
large majorities — Gen. Armstrong voted againt the second article,
which alarmed the Jacobins. With some other exceptions it is
believed the thing will be ratified by the unanimous vote of the
Senate.

JEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 509

On the subject of choosing a President, some revolutionary
opinions are gaining ground, and the Jacobins are determined
to resist the election of Burr at every hazard — most of the Ja-
cobin members will be instructed not to vote for Col. Burr. I
have seen a letter from Mr. Madison to one of the Virginia rep-
resentatives, in which he says, that, in the event of the present
House of Representatives not choosing Mr. Jefferson President,
that the next House of Eepresentatives will have a right to
choose one of the two having the highest number of votes, and
that the nature of the case, aided with the support of the great
body of the people, will justify Jefferson and Burr jointly to call
together the members of the next House of Eepresentatives,
previous to the 8d of December next, for the express purpose of
choosing a President, and that he is confident they will make a
proper choice. In other parts of his letter he speaks of America
being degraded by the attempt to elect Burr President. What
say you, my friend? — the little A^irginian must have been a little
ferocious at the time he wrote to his friend. I am confident the
present House will not elect Col. Burr, and am persuaded the
democrats have taken their ground with a fixed resolution to
destroy the government rather than yield their point. I fear
some of our friends have committed themselves by writing im-
properly to Burr. We know the man, and those who put them-
selves in his power will repent their folly.

Yours, kc.

• RUTLEDGE TO HAMILTON,

Washington, January 10th, 1801.

My Dear Sir:

I yesterday had the honor of receiving your favor of the 4th
instant, and am justly sensible of the distinction conferred upon
me by your confidence. My determination to support Mr. Burr
has been shaken by your communication, and I shall make,

510 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 44.

among those who with, you are anxious to preserve the public
order at this crisis, all the use of it that its seasonableness and
value will enable me to do. Viewing Mr. J. and Mr. B. sepa-
rately, each appears improper for the presidency ; but, looking at
them together, and comparatively, the federalists think their pre-
ferring Burr will be the least mischief they can do. His promo-
tion will be prodigiously afflicting to the Virginia faction, and
must disjoint the part}^. If Mr. B.'s presidency be productive of
evils, it will be very easy for us to excite jealousy respecting his
motives, and to get rid of him. Opposed by the Virginia party,
it will be his interest to conciliate the federalists; and we are
assured by a gentleman who lately had some conversation with.
Mr. B. on this subject, that he is disposed to maintain and expand
our systems. Should he attempt an usurpation, he will endeavor
to accomplish his ends in a bold manner and by the union of
daring spirits, — his project in such a shape cannot be very for
midable, and those employed in the execution of it can very
easily be made way with. Should Mr. Jefferson be disposed to
make (as he would term it) an improvement, (and as we should
deem it a subversion) of our Constitution, the attempt would be
fatal to us, for he would begin by democratizing the people and
end with throwing every thing into their hands.

If the House of Representatives was to vote on this all import-
ant subject under existing impressions, I believe the termina-
tion would be as follows : South Carolina, Delaware, Connecti-
cut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and New Hampshire, for Burr;
and Georgia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, North Carolina,
Pennsylvania, Jersey, and New- York, for Mr. Jefferson. Ver-
mont would be divided, and Maryland is yet undecided. This
is I believe the state of present sentiment, but I will review my
decision, and in doing so, consider with due deliberation your
very important observations on this eventful subject; and I shall
also communicate them to a few of my friends, to whom I may
show them without being indiscreet. The public prints will have
informed you how we have occupied ourselves here ; — our House
is at present discussing the judiciary bill, which we hope very
confidently to carry. • It will greatly extend the judiciary power,

jEt.44.] correspondence. 511

and of course greatly widen the basis of government. "We shall
profit of our short-lived majority, and do as much good as we
can before the end of this session. The Senate are hammering at
our French treaty. I am surprised and mortified that our en-
voys signed it. It appears to me that they have done nothing
on the real points of complaint, nay, have done worse than
nothing. One part of the treaty abandons all our rights, and the
other part makes us the dupes of France in the game she means
to play against the maritime power of England. Before this
theory can be effected, the armed neutrality must have one hun-
dred ships of the line to convoy their merchantmen, or the Eng-
lish will search 'em. We lose our honor, by restoring the ships
we have taken, and by doing so, perhaps, make an implicit ac-
knowledgment of the injustice of our hostile operations, which
will be brought against us in the future and frivolous negotiations
into which we may enter for compensation.

Accept, I pray of you, my dear General, the homage of my
veneration and respect, and believe me to be
Yours very sincerely,

John Eutledge.

SEDGEWICK TO HAMILTON.

Washington. 10th January, 1801.

I delayed, my dear sir, an answer to your letter of the 22d
purposely, because from it I was induced to believe I was soon
to be favored with another containing additional observations on
the convention.

On that subject, at present, I shall say nothing. It is not
doubted that the votes for Jefferson and Burr have been equally
given, and that from one of those, the House must select the next
President of the United States. It is known, that all the demo-
cratic representatives are decidedly in favor of Jefferson. These
will give seven certainly, possibly eight votes, but it is believed
he cannot be elected without the concurrence of the federalists,

512 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44.

and we entertain no doubt, that should we prefer Burr, tJiey will
not dare to persevere in voting for Jefferson, and thereby pre-
vent any election. How then shall we determine? The ques-
tion is difficult and the result doubtful. No decision is yet had,
though there is, I believe, a strong preponderance of opinion
against Jefferson.

In his favor, it is said, that it was the intention of all those
electors who voted for him and Burr, that he should be elected.
This bej^ond all doubt, as to a large majority of those electors, is
true. But wherefore, it is asked, was this preference given to
him ? Because, it is answered, he was known to be hostile to all
those great systems of administration, the combined effect of
which is our national prosperity, and all we possess of national
character and respectability ; because he is a sincere and enthusi-
astic democrat in principle, plausible in manners, crafty in con-
duct, persevering in the pursuit of his object, regardless of the
means by which it is attained, and equally regardless of an ad-
herence to truth, as demonstrated by his letter to Mazzei, his
declaration in the Senate on his first taking his seat there, &c. &c. ;
because he is known to be devoted to the views of those men, in
his State, whose unceasing efforts it has been, and is, to reduce in
practice the administration of this government to the principles
of the old confederation, in which that State, by her numerous rep-
resentatives, and the influence which she has on surrounding
States, will be the dictatrix; because he is known to be servilely
devoted to one foreign nation, under any form of government,
and pursuing any system of measures, however hostile to this
country, and unrelentingly hostile to another nation, and those
the two nations on earth with which we have the most interest-
ing relations, and with which it is most important to preserve an
equal and impartial regard. Ought we then to respect the pre-
fence which is given to this man from such motives, and by such
friends f

As to the other candidate, there is no disagreement as to his
character. He is ambitious — selfish — profligate. His ambition
is of the worst kind ; it is a mere love of power, regardless of
fame, but as its instrument- his selfishness excludes ail social

JEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 513

affections, and his profligacy unrestrained by any moral senti-
ments, and defying all decency. This is agreed, but then it is
known that his manners are plausible — that he is dexterous in
the acquisition and use of the means necessary to effect his
wishes. Nothing can be a stronger evidence of this than the
situation in which he stands at this moment — without any preten- .
sion from connections, fame, or services — elevated by his own
independent means to the highest point to which all those can
carry the most meritorious man in the nation. He holds to n&
previous theories, but is a mere matter-of-fact man. His very self-
ishness prevents his entertaining any mischievous predilections
for foreign nations. The situation in which he lives has enabled
him to discern and justly appreciate the benefits resulting from
our commercial and other national systems, and this same selfish-
ness will afford some security that he will not only patronize
their support but their invigoration.

There are other considerations. It is very evident that the
Jacobins dislike Mr. Burr as President — that they dread his ap-
pointment more than even that of General Pinckney.

On his part, he hates them for the preference given to his ri-
val. He has expressed his displeasure at the publication of his
letter by General Smith. This jealousy, and distrust, and dis-
like, will every clay more and more increase, and more and more
widen the breach between them. If, then, Burr should be
elected by the federalists against the hearty opposition of the
Jacobins, the wounds mutually given and received will probably
be incurable. Each will have committed the unpardonable sin.
Burr must depend on good men for his support, and that support
he cannot receive but by a conformity to their views.

In these circumstances, then, to what evils shall we expose
ourselves by the choice of Burr, which we should escape by the
election of Jefferson ? It is said, that it would be more disgrace-
ful to our country and to the principles of our government. For
myself, I declare I think it impossible to preserve the honor of
our country or the principles of our Constitution by a mode of
election which was intended to secure to prominent talents and
virtues the first honors of our country, and for ever to disgrace
f 33

514 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 44.

the barbarous institutions by which executive power is to he trans-
mitted through the organs of generation. We have at one election
placed at the head of our government a semi-maniac, and who,
in his soberest senses, is the greatest marplot in nature ; and at
the next a feeble and false, enthusiastic theorist, and a profligate
without character and without property, bankrupt in both. But
if there remains any thing for us, in this respect, to regard, it is
with the minority in the Presidential election ; and can they be
more disgraced than by assenting to the election of Jefferson —
the man who has proclaimed them to the world as debased in
principle and as detestable and traitorous in conduct ? Burr is
indeed unworthy, but the evidence of his unworthiness is
neither so extensively known nor so conclusive as that of the
other man.

It must be confessed that there is part of the character of
Burr more dangerous than that of Jefferson. Give to the former
a i robable chance, and he would become an usurper. The latter
might not incline, he certainly would not dare, to make the at-
tempt. I do not believe that either would succeed, and I am
even confident that such a project would be rejected by Burr as
visionary.

At first, I confess I was strongly disposed to give Jefferson the
preference ; but the more I have reflected, the more I have been
inclined to the other; yet, however, I remain unpledged, even
to my friends, though I believe I shall not separate from them.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

New- York, January, 10th, 1801.

I thank you, my dear sir, for your letter of the 5th instant.
The scruples you express about the ratification of the conven-
tion are very respectable. No well-informed man can doubt,
that it is an exceptionable instrument ; but I continue of the
opinion, that it is best upon the whole to ratify it uncondition-
ally.

JEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 515

It does not appear to me that on fair construction, the exist-
ence of the old treaties is recognized ; though a right of mutual
indemnities as to the past is admitted. But inasmuch as it is
declared, that they shall hereafter have no effect until a future
agreement, this appears to me to amount to the consent of France,
that they shall become inoperative and null ; unless they shall
be revived by the consent of the United States. So far I think
that something is gained. For the right of one party to annul
a treaty is a litigious right, never consummated till the other
party waives its opposition. This is now in substance done by
France. And, in my opinion, to have advanced so far is a mat-
ter of considerable importance.

The indemnification for spoliation is, I admit, virtually relin-
quished, as the price of a waiver of the treaties ; but considering
our situation, and the immense and growing power of France,
that price is not too great.

Further, there are such potent obstacles in the nature of
things to the obtaining of effectual indemnification, that it is
very well to leave it to the chapter of accidents.

The restoration of ships of war is an unpleasant, and, I will
not deny,- rather a humiliating thing.

But as it is in form reciprocal, it does not seem to me that
unequivocal species of dishonor, which ought to induce us to
run great risks. Our conduct, heretofore, has gone on the
ground, that though we ought not to submit to unequivocal dis-
grace, yet we ought not to be too susceptible or over-curious and
nice. In this spirit, we have borne a great deal, sometimes too
much, from all the belligerents. Circumstances do not now invite
to a different course. Our rapid progress to strength will, ere
long, encourage to and warrant higher pretensions.

You seem to have gotten over the difficulty of the supposed
collision between the convention and our treaty with Britain.
You already know that this accords with my opinion. Yet it
seems to me the most thorny point, as it draws into question our
faith towards a third power.

This gotten over, there is not, in my apprehension, any re-
maining obstacle to a full ratification which may not be over-
come.

516 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 44.

The limitation of the treaty as to time, is doubtless desira-
ble ; but we may be sure it will not be eternal in fact. Perpe-
tual peace will not exist. A war cuts the knot, and leaves us
free to renew or not, to renew absolutely or with qualifications.

With this view of the subject, I do not consider the objec-
tions to a simple ratification to be strong enough to countervail
the dangers of a qualified one, which, certainly, will leave it in
the option of the other party to recede.

It is possible, that in the pride of success our backwardness
to ratify may be the pretext of a rupture to punish the presump-
tion. Under existing circumstances, such an event would be dis-
astrous, if not for the evils which the arms of France might in-
flict, yet for the hazard of internal schisms and discord. The
mania for France has in a great degree revived in our country,
and the party which should invite a rupture would be likely to
be ruined.

Perhaps with the administration we are going to have, there
may be less danger of rupture than with one of a different cast ;
yet not much reliance can be placed on this circumstance, and
there is another side to the question which deserves attention.

If the present convention be ratified, our relations to France
will have received a precise shape. To take up the subject anew,
and mould it into a shape better according with Jacobin pro-
jects, will not be as easy, as, finding the whole business open, to
give it that shape. I think it jDolitic, therefore, to close as far as
we can.

Again, it will be of consequence to the federal cause in future
to be able to say, the federal administration steered the vessel
through all the storms raised by the contentions of Europe into
a peaceful and safe port. This cannot be said, if the contest
with France continues open.

Inclosed you have some recent intelligence, which seems to
strengthen the argument for a simple ratification. Great Britain
stands on a precipice. The misfortune for her is, that there are
manifest symptoms of a depreciated and depreciating paper cur-
rency. This may cut deep.

The result is, that good understanding with the United

Mt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 517

States is more than ever necessary to Great Britain. She will
not lightly take umbrage while France is in a position to ride
a high horse. These facts cannot prudently be excluded from
the calculation.

So our eastern friends want to join the armed neutrality
and make war upon Britain. I infer this from their mad pro-
pensity to make Burr President. If Jefferson has prejudices
leading to that result, he has defects of character to keep him
back. Burr, with the same propensities, will find the thing ne-
cessary to his projects, and will dare to hazard all consequences.
They may as well think to bind a giant by a cobweb, as his
ambition by promises.

GO VERNE UR MORRIS TO HAMILTON.

Washington, January 16th, 1801.

My Dear Sir:

I have yours of the ninth. I had already replied to those
which it refers to. The idea that a division of the votes would
bring over the aristocrats, who call themselves democrats, to
vote for Burr, is unfounded. Were it otherwise, a number of
federalists, that is, of republicans, would urge the experiment.
The conviction that they will not abandon their man may induce
the republicans to unite with the adversary, and give Mr. Jef-
ferson a unanimous vote.

I have hinted, that should they find the opposition to him
ineffectual, it might be advisable openly to declare, that, unable
to estimate the respective merits of the candidates, whose virtues
they are equally ignorant of, the republicans will join in the
choice of the person whom they may designate. Under present
circumstances, this appears to me the best expedient for avoiding
all responsibility at the bar of public opinion, and that is im-
portant, for let the choice fall as it may, many will be displeased.

The present moment is indeed of high interest, but prudence

518 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44.

seems to be more necessary than any thing else. Not the cold

quality, which avoids mistakes, but the active virtue, which
corrects the evil of mistakes already made.

MOERIS TO HAMILTON.

Washington, January 16th, 1801.

My Dear Sir :

I this instant received your favor of the tenth. I thank you
for it. The Aurora will have shown you the result of our delib-
erations on the convention, at least of those which went to a
division worth noting. If it sticks in France, it will be respect-
ing points on which the vote was unanimous, or nearly so.

As to the induction from the words of the second article,
that the old treaties subsisted, though their operation was sus-
pended; I think it undeniable, and when connected with certain
rights given by the convention, which had been given both by
those treaties and by the treaty with Britain, a construction less
strained than many which become prolific in the management of
a great power, would have involved us in serious difficulty. To
Britain was given certain rights, limited by those of a singular
kind previously given to France. In abolishing our treaties
with the latter, that which we had made with the former obtain-
ed an actual extension, which we might rightfully restrain ■ for as
she was no party, either to our treaties with France, or to the
abrogation of them, she could not rightfully complain, had we
thought lit to re-establish those treaties. When, therefore, ac
Jcnowledging their existence by suspending their effects generally, we
particularly stipulate, and literally renew a part, might not the
French demand for the part so renewed a priority f In fact,
might not France demand that a British ship should not bring
into our ports a French prize ? The privileges granted being
incompatible and exclusive, the question of priority involves every
thing. So much for that.

jEt. 44. j CORRESPONDENCE. 519

Those articles (the second and third) being left out, the con-
vention must be considered merely as a treaty of peace. The
pre-existence of war is admitted, and from the moment of that
admission, there is an end to treaties and to claims of restitution
and indemnity. Nothing, therefore, can make the matter more
clear than to be perfectly silent.

Our negotiators huddled up a treaty, because there was to
be a general peace ; and you, my good friend, seem to think we
should gulp it down because there is to be a general war. I
took occasion early to declare in the Senate that we need not
hurry the matter through, because, in my opinion, there would
not be a general peace. Circumstances rush on to support my
conjecture. Doubtless the First Consul, if the dice run against
him, will agree to our offer. If they run in his favor they may
reject it, and in like manner he might, under such circumstances,
have freed himself from any cobweb fetters. His whole conduct
is a comment on that text.

But you seem to fear for Britain, because she has brought
paper money into fashion. This reason, my dear sir, is stronger
against trusting her in commerce, than it is against confiding in
her system of politics or war. Paper money, like ardent spirits,
increases for a while the strength, though it consumes by degrees
the fat, the muscles, and the viscera. At present, Britain pre-
sents a plump carcass for the poison to prey upon. With toler-
able management, she may last at least ten years, and make,
during that period, tremendous exertions. Rely on it, Denmark
and Sweden will be sick of their bargain before midsummer
next ; and as to Paul Peter, remember what I told you of his
fickle character. He cannot last long, and, deprived of com-
merce, will find his paper bubbles run down hill much faster
than the paper guineas of his adversary. His mother was a dif-
ferent being, and yet, even with her gigantic talents, she must
have failed in the prosecution of her schemes had she not ob-
tained money on loan in Holland.

As to the continental war, I think France has pushed as far
as reason will justify. Should she go farther south in Italy, and
farther east in Germany, the Austrians, by rapid movements to

520 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 44.

a central position, may give the Consul a blow he will never
recover.

HAMILTON TO BAYARD.

New-York, January 16th, 1801.
[This letter was inserted by mistake on page 419, under date of Jan. 1G, 1800.]

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

New- York, January. 1801.

Dear Sir:

I hasten to give you some information which may be useful.
I know as a fact that overtures have been made by leading indi-
viduals of the federal party to Mr. Burr, who declines to give
any assurances respecting his future intentions and conduct, say-
ing that to do it might injure him with his friends, and prevent
their co-operation ; that all ought to be inferred from the neces-
sity of his future situation, as it regarded the disappointment and
animosity of the anti-federalists ; that the federalists, relying
upon this, might proceed in the certainty that, upon a second
ballot, New-York and Tennessee would join him. It is likewise
ascertained that he perfectly understands himself with Edward
Livingston, who will be his agent at the seat of government.

Thus you see that Mr. Burr is resolved to preserve himself in
a situation to adhere to his former friends, engagements, and
projects, and to use the federalists as tools of his aggrandisement.

The hope that by his election he will be separated from the
anti-federalists, is a perfect farce.

He will satisfy them that he has kept himself free to continue
his relations to them, and as many of them are secretly attached
to him, they will all be speedily induced to rally under his stand-
ard, to which he will add the unprincipled of our party, and he
will lausrh at the rest.

jEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 521

It is a fact that Mr. Burr is now in frequent and close con-
ference with a Frenchman, who is suspected of being an agent of
the French government, and it is not to be doubted that he will
be the firm ally of Buonaparte.

You are at liberty to show this letter to such friends as you
think fit, especially Mr. Bayard, of Delaware, in whose principles
and sound sense I have much confidence.

Depend upon it, men never played a more foolish game than
will do the federalists, if they support Burr.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

Albany, Jan. 21, 1801.

Dear Sir :

Being in a hurry to leave New- York for this place, I com-
pressed, in a letter to Bayard, some observations which, had I
time, I should have put in a reply to your last. I requested him
to communicate it to you, and I beg of you, as you love your
country, your friends, and yourself, to reconsider dispassionately
the opinion you have expressed in favor of Burr.

I never was so much mistaken, as I shall be, if our friends,
in the event of their success, do not rue the preference they will
give to that Catiline. Adieu.

A. H.

HAMILTON TO

Albany, February 22, 1801.

Dear Sir:

After my ill success hitherto, I ought, perhaps, in prudence,
to say nothing farther on the subject. But situated as things now
are, I certainly have no advice to give. Yet I may, without
impropriety, communicate a fact, it is this :

Colonel Burr is taking an active personal part in favor of Mr.

522 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 44.

Clinton against Mr. Rensselaer, as Governor of this State. I
have, upon my honor, direct and indubitable evidence, that be-
tween two and three weeks past, he wrote a very urgent letter to
Oliver Phelps, of the western part of this State, to induce his
exertions in favor of Clinton. Is not this an unequivocal con-
firmation of what I predicted, that he will, in every event, con-
tinue to play the Jacobin game? Can any thing else explain his
conduct at such a moment, and under such circumstances? I
might add several other things to prove that he is resolved to
adhere to and cultivate his old party, who lately, more than ever,
have shown the cloven foot of rank Jacobinism.

BAYARD TO HAMILTON.

• Washington, 8th March, 1801.

Dear Sir:

I left Washington on the 5th and arrived here last evening.
The letter which you did me the honor to write the 22d ultimo,
reached me on the 4th, when I was occupied in arrangements
for leaving the seat of government.

I remained in Washington on the 4th through necessity, though
not without some curiosity to see the inauguration, and to hear
the speech. The scene was the same as exhibited upon former
occasions, and the speech, in political substance, better than we
expected ; and not answerable to the expectations of the parti-
sans of the other side.

After the inaugural ceremonies, most of the federal gentlemen
paid their respects to the President and the Vice, and were
received with very decent respect.

Mr. Adams did not attend. He has been sufficiently humbled
to be 'allowed to be absent. Your views in relation to the elec-
tion, differed very little from my own, but I was obliged to yield
to a torrent, which I perceived might be diverted, but could not
be opposed.

In one case I was willing to take Burr, but I never considered

jEt. 44.] CORRESPONDENCE. 523

it as a case likely to happen. If by his conduct he has com-
pletely forfeited the confidence and friendship of his party, and
left himself no resort but the support of the federalists, there are
many considerations which would have induced me to prefer him
to Jefferson. But I was enabled soon to discover that he was
determined not to shackle himself with federal principles ; and
it became evident that if he got in without being absolutely
committed in relation to his own party, that he would be dis-
posed and obliged to play the game of McKean upon an im-
proved plan, and enlarged scale.

In the origin of the business I had contrived to lay hold of
all the doubtful votes in the House, which enabled me, according
to views which presented themselves, to protract or terminate
the controversy.

This arrangement was easily made, from the opinion readily
adopted from the consideration, that representing a small State
without resources which could supply the means of self-protec-
tion, I should not dare to proceed to any length which would
jeopardize the constitution or the safety of any State. When the
experiment was fully made, and acknowledged upon all hands
to have completely ascertained that Burr was resolved not to
commit himself, and that nothing remained but to appoint a Pres-
ident by law, or leave the government without one, I came out
with the most explicit and determined declaration of voting for
Jefferson. You cannot well imagine the clamor and vehement
invective to which I was subjected for some days. We had sev-
eral caucuses. All acknowledged that nothing but desperate
measures remained, which several -were disposed to adopt, and
but few were willing openly to disapprove. We broke up each
time in confusion and discord, and the manner of the last ballot
was arranged but a few minutes before the ballot was given. Our
former harmony, however, has since been restored.

The public declarations of my intention to vote for Jefferson,
to which I have alluded, were made without a general consulta-
tion, knowing that it would be an easier task to close the breach
which I foresaw, when it was the result of an act done without
concurrence, than if it had proceeded from one against a decision

524 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

of the party. Had it not been for a single gentleman from Con-
necticut, the eastern States would finally have voted in blank, in
the same manner as done by South Carolina and Delaware ; but,
because he refused, the rest of the delegation refused ; and be-
cause Connecticut insisted on continuing the ballot for Burr,
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Khode Island, refused to de-
part from their former vote.

The means existed of electing Burr, but this required his
co-operation. By deceiving one man (a great blockhead), and
tempting two (not incorruptible), he might have secured a
majority of the States. He will never have another chance of
being President of the United States ; and the little use he has
made of the one which has occurred, gives me but an humble
opinion of the talents of an unprincipled man.

CONSTABLE TO HAMILTON.

Paris, March 23d, 1801.

Dear Sir:

Our government is doubtless informed of the treaty between
this republic and Spain for the cession of Louisiana, of which
Collaud is to be governor. I am told it is concluded.

Original inclosed to J. Madison, Esq., Secretary of State, May 20th, 1807.

MADISON TO HAMILTON.

Department of State, Washington, May 26th, 1801.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the 20th, inclosing one from
Paris, of March 23d. The cession of Louisiana by Spain to the
French republic, referred to in the letter, had been previously
signified to this department from several sources, as an event be-

.Et.44.] correspondence. 525

lieved to have taken place. Supposing you might wish to re-
possess the letter from Mr. C, I herein return it.
I have the honor to remain, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

James Madison.

VAN VECHTEN TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 1801.

Dear Sir:

I am enjoined by the General Committee to tax your good-
ness to prepare a short, temperate, and pertinent supplemen-
tary address, by way of reply to that of our opponents. This
tax will be levied and collected without communicating whence
it is derived.

WOOLSEY TO HAMILTON.

September 4th, 1801.

Dear Sir:

I am as much dissatisfied with the recent conduct of the Manu-
mission Society as you can be, and have, out of doors, remon-
strated against the measures which they have pursued, but with-
out effect. My name appears as vice-president, although I have
not for several years attended a meeting of the Society. I had
almost determined before your note that I would remove my in-
dividual responsibility by a public protest against their measures.
Your plan may be better, though I am very doubtful of its effi-
cacy. If you would, after your return, incline to have the So-
ciety called together, I will apply to Mr. Willet Seaman, who is
the president, for that purpose.

526 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 44.

BUSHROI) WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON.

Walnut Farm, November 21, 1801.

Dear Sir:

Your letter dated in September, came lately to my hands, after
having made a circuitous route through many distant post-offices,
as appears from the endorsement on it. * * *

The system of intolerance and proscription which seems to
be the order of the day, from the General to many of the State
governments will, I fear, produce a fatal schism, which may pro-
bably divide the States, as it already has the people. But I ap-
prehend that the plan of Mr. Pendleton, which, not unlikely, is
the plan of his party to obtain a general convention for reform-
ing the Constitution, will bring us to this ultimate point of our
political progress by a shorter road. I do not think that it re-
quires the gift of prophecy to foretell the dissolution of the con-
federacy if a convention should be agreed to by two-thirds of the
States at this, or perhaps at any other time.

With very great respect and esteem, &c.

JAY TO HAMILTON.

Albany, November 15th, 1801.

Dear Sir:

At present I have not leisure to mention more on this subject
than that the gentleman who was thought of for a certain em-
ployment, declines it, nor does he know of any person who
would probably be willing, and also well qualified, to execute what
would be expected from him as necessary to insure success to
the plan.

Yours, &c.

jEt.45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 527

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, January 12, 1802.
Both as a friend and a father I do most unfeignedlj partici-
pate and condole with you in the heavy affliction that has fallen
upon your family. It would be altogether vain for me to have
recourse to the usual topics of consolation. In so severe a ca-
lamity it must be sought for among the treasures of your own
mind, which nature has so eminently endowed ; and after awhile
it will likewise be found in. the promising branches of your
family which remain, to recall to your remembrance as well as to
console you for the loss you have suffered.

With the most faithful regard and attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO RUSH.

New-York, Feb. 12th: 1802.

Dear Sir:

I felt all the weight of the obligation which I owed to you
and your amiable family for the tender concern they manifested
in an event beyond comparison the most afflicting of my life ; but
I was obliged to wait for a moment of greater calm to express
my sense of the kindness.

My loss is indeed great. The brightest as well as the eldest
hope of my family has been taken from me. You estimate him
rightly. He was a fine youth. But why should I repine ? It
was the will of heaven, and he is now out of the reach of the se-
ductions and calamities of a world full of folly, full of vice, full
of danger, of least value in proportion as it is best known. I
firmly trust, also, that he has safely reached the haven of eternal
repose and felicity.

You will easily conceive that every memorial of the goodness
of his heart must be precious to me. You allude to one recorded

528 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[jEt. 45.

in a letter to your son. If no special reasons forbid it, I should
be very glad to have a copy of that letter.

Mrs. Hamilton joins me in affectionate thanks to Mrs. Bush
and yourself; our wishes for your happiness will be unceasing.

Very sincerely and cordially, &c.

MORRIS TO HAMILTON".

Washington, Feb. 22d, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

You must pardon me for telling you I am sorry that you op-
posed sending a petition to Congress against the repeal of the law
of last session for amending the judicial system. It will stop, I
suppose, any such petitions which might have come on from the
eastward, and thus leave our enemies to conclude against us from
the silence of our friends. Moreover, it will enable your per-
sonal enemies to say, that you wished the repeal to take effect, so
as to overturn the Constitution ; and weak-minded friends may
be hurt that the bar of a State should hold themselves too high
to petition the legislature of the Union. However, what is done
cannot be undone.

"Would it not be useful to establish committees of corres-
pondence from Baltimore to Boston, of which New-York to be
the centre, as a more favorable position to collect opinions
through that tract of country ? If a general meeting of the citi-
zens of New- York should be convened, it might be for the pur-
pose of considering what constitutional measures can be adopted
in the present moment to secure the independence of the State,
and the national compact of the Union, from the dangers with
which they are threatened. At such meeting, it might be useful
to appoint a large committee, chiefly of merchants, composed of
moderate men. You should not appear in all this. They will
soon catch an esprit de corps. They may report simply resolu-
tions, that the repeal is inexpedient, that a petition be presented

.Et. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 529

•

to the President, and that a committee be appointed to corres-
pond with other committees.

This corresponding committee, selected from the first, and ap-
pointed hy the people, may consist of the most intelligent and
moderate men. In a few weeks they will find business for them-
selves and for Mr. President too. The petition might state, first,
that the law to be repealed is considered as useful, and tending
to the speedy administration of justice; secondly, that the ex-
pense, compared with the object or with the general amount of
expenditure, is trifling; thirdly, that respect forbids the idea,
which has been suggested by some, that the principal object of
the repeal is to get rid of obnoxious judges — that, whatever may
be the characters of those who sit in other circuits, those of the
second circuit have deserved the public confidence; fourthly,
that, without questioning the powers of Congress, it appears a
point of such magnitude, and the result, if the law be unconstitu-
tional, which is the opinion of many cool and discerning men, is
fraught with such danger, that the petitioners hope he will inter-
fere to prevent a decision, and thereby quiet the minds of many
real friends to the national government and the independence of
the several States, who view with extreme anxiety the present
situation of our affairs.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

New-York, 27th February, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 22d is the third favor I am indebted to you
since you left New-York.

Your frankness in giving me your opinion as to the ex-
pediency of an application of our bar to- Congress, obliged me.
But you know we are not readily persuaded to think we have
been wrong. Were the matter to be done over, I should pursue
the same course. I did not believe the measure would be useful
F 34

530 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

•

as a preventive, and for the people an expression of an opinion
by letter would be as good as a memorial.

It appeared to be best, because it saved our delicacy, and be-
cause in the abstract, I am not over fond of the precedent of the
bar addressing Congress. But I did what I thought likely to do
more good. I induced the Chamber of Commerce to send a me-
morial. As to the rest, I should be a very unhappy man, if I
left my tranquillity at the mercy of the misinterpretations which
friends as well as foes are fond of giving to my conduct.

Mine is an odd destiny. Perhaps no man in the United
States has sacrificed or done more for the present Constitution
than myself ; and contrary to all my anticipations of its fate, as
you know from the very beginning. I am still laboring to prop the
frail and worthless fabric. Yet I have the murmurs of its friends
no less than the curses of its foes for my reward. What can I
do better than withdraw from the scene ? Every day proves to
me more and more, that this American world was not made for
me.

The suggestions with which you close your letter suppose a
much sounder state of the public mind than at present exists.
Attempts to make a show of a general 'popular dislike of the pend-
ing measures of the government, would only serve to manifest
the direct reverse. Impressions are indeed making, but as yet
within a very narrow sphere.

The time may ere long arrive when the minds of men will
be prepared to make an effort to recover the Constitution, but the
many cannot now be brought to make a stand for its preserva-
tion. We must wait a while.

I have read your speeches with great pleasure. They are
truly worthy of you. Your real friends had many sources of
satisfaction on account of them. The conspiracy of dulness was
at work. It chose to misinterpret your moderation in certain
transactions of a personal reference.

A public energetic- display of your talents and principles was
requisite to silence the cavillers. It is now done. You, friend
Morris, are by birth a native of this country, but by genius an
exotic. You mistake, if you fancy that you are more of a favor-

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 531

ite than myself, or that you are in any sort upon a theatre suited
to you.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

New- York, March 4, 1802.

My Dear Sir :

You have seen certain resolutions unanimously pass our
legislature for amending the Constitution ; 1st, by designating
separately the candidates for President and Vice-President ; 2d,
by having the electors chosen by the people in districts under
the direction of the national legislature.

After mature reflection, I was thoroughly confirmed in my
full impression, that it is true federal policy to promote the
adoption of these amendments.

Of the first ; not only because it is in itself right, that the
people should know whom they are choosing, and because the
present mode gives all possible scope to intrigue, and is danger-
ous (as we have seen) to the public tranquillity ; but because in
every thing which gives opportunity for juggling arts, our adver-
saries will nine times out of ten excel us.

Of the second ; because it removes thus far the intervention
of the State governments, and strengthens the connection between
the federal head and the people, and because it diminishes the
means of party combination, in which also, the burning zeal of
our opponents will be generally an overmatch for our temperate
flame.

I shall be very happy that our friends may think with me,
and that no temporary motive may induce them to let slip the
precious occasion in which personal motives induce the other
party to forget their true policy.

We are told here, that at the close of your birthday feast, a
strange apparition, which was taken for the Vice-President, ap-
peared among you, and toasted " the union of all honest men."

532 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.tor. 45.

I often hear at the corner of the streets important federal secrets,
of which I am ignorant. This may be one.

If the story be true, 'tis a good thing, if we use it well. As
an instrument, the person will be an auxiliary of some value ; as
a chief, he will disgrace and destroy the party.

I suspect, however, the folly of the mass will make him the
latter, and from the moment it shall appear that this is the
plan, it may be depended upon much more will be lost than
gained. I know of no important character, who has a less
founded interest than the man in question. His talents may do
well enough for a particular plot, but they are ill suited to a
great and wise drama. But what has wisdom to do with weak
men ? Adieu.

Yours truly,

A. Hamilton.

JACKSON TO HAMILTON.

Philadelphia, March 12, 1802.
I beg leave, my dear General, to request that you will notify
the New- York State Society of the Cincinnati, that the triennial
general meeting of the Society is to be held at the city of Wash-
ington on the first Monday in May next, where it is anxiously
wished that their delegates may attend. The nomination of gen-
tlemen in Congress who are members of the Society, may facili-
tate the convening of a quorum.

As President-General of the Society, your presence will be
peculiarly gratifying to

Your faithful and affectionate servant,

W. Jackson, Secretary- General

jEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 533

TRUXTUN TO HAMILTON.

Norfolk, 22d March, 1802.

Dear Sir:

A variety of circumstances convinced me at Washington that
my appointment was by no means congenial to the wishes of the
President ; and a little time after I came here made the fact so
evident, that I at length considered my reputation deeply at
stake in the hands of the present administration, and brought
things to a point.

It is with pain and reluctance I quit the navy ; but it was
unavoidable, as you will see by the inclosed copy of a letter to
the Secretary of the Navy. Although I had come on to Wash-
ington in January, on my way here (by appointment made by
the President), to command the squadron destined for the Medi-
terranean, in the course of conversation at dinner in the palace,
the President asked me which way I was travelling, whether I
was going to the northward or southward. This question was
astonishing, and the more so when I assure you, he never opened
his lips to me on the subject of the squadron or of our Mediter-
ranean affairs.

I think I can, with truth say, it was never intended that I

should proceed on the command in question, if it could be decently

avoided, and at the same time the appearance kept up. I shall

make a visit of a few days to Colonel Parker, and proceed home.

I am, dear Sir,

Your very obedient humble servant,

Thomas Truxtun.

TRUXTUN TO HAMILTON.

Norfolk, 26th March, 1802.

Dear Sir:

As an officer sacrificed by party spirit, and in the hope of a
favorable change in the affairs of our once free and happy coun-

534 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 45.

try, I think it a duty to address you as one of the remaining
honest political fathers of it.

The present administration finding, as I verily believe, that
it was not possible to succeed in bringing me over to prostitute
my principles by forsaking the federal cause, and becoming a
proselyte to their infernal doctrines and their measures, which
will ere long destroy in toto the Constitution of our country,
have adopted a scheme to compel me to quit the navy. The art
with which this project was arranged, could not have been sur-
passed by any pettifogging lawyer in the United States, of talents
superior to the actor (Mr. Secretary Smith) in the undertaking.
But it was not for me at this period of my life, independent in
my mind and fortune of public favor, to suffer any thing degrad-
ing to my honor by the sect, in violation of an agreement made
with me previous to my leaving Washington for this borough, to
take command of the squadron destined for the Mediterranean
station. Early on my arrival here, I discovered the whole plan,
and the cause of it, and my embarrassments were great, lest on
quitting the service many of my federal friends, not knowing the
real cause, should consider me blamable ; but on reflection, and
mature reflection, I considered that an honest representation of
facts would reconcile them to my determination, especially as
there was no alternative left but to quit the service or to show a
meanness of spirit which I despise, and would not do to be pos-
sessed of the President's palace, with all his equipage, power and
consequence.

Believing, as I did, that the sect viewed me with a jealous
eye, I carried on much of my correspondence with the Secretary
of the Navy, through Mr. Stoddart (the late Secretary of that
department), and he will do me the justice to say, that I declared,
before I left my home in New Jersey, and after I had journeyed
on as far as Philadelphia, that I would not proceed without a
captain under me (as Commodore Dale has), or if that grade of
officer was inconvenient to furnish, on account of the few cap-
tains retained in service in consequence of the act of Congress
of 1801, a lieutenant-commandant to supply the place of a cap-
tain ; and, on my arrival at Washington, Mr. Smith furnished

jet. 45.) correspondence. 535

me with a list of officers ordered to my ship (the Chesapeake),
headed by Captain Campbell, which list is now before me. But
some time after I arrived here, and had completed the equip-
ment of the ship, I received a letter from the Secretary, stating
that Captain Campbell, from some accident, could not, or would
not, be able to go ; and, although I had gone through the fatigue
of preparing the ship for the expedition, with only two very
young lieutenants (all that was sent me), I was directed to make
another lieutenant from the inexperienced midshipmen on board,
none of which had been more than a voyage or two at sea. This
order I could not comply with, nor would the ship have been
safe in a common squall, when I was at any time off deck, with
officers in charge thereon so very destitute of nautical informa-
tion. This circumstance only admitted, how much more so would
the risk of the honor of our flag have been in battle, especially
if any accident happened to the commanding officer ?

But, sir, Messrs. Jefferson, Gallatin, Smith and Co., knew
full well I would not submit to this state of things ; and it was,
in my belief, their plan to get rid of me. They can never for-
give me for having taken and beaten Frenchmen. I have com-
mitted a dreadful crime for having spilt French blood in the
execution of performing faithfully my duty ; and I shall be for
ever held up at their caucuses as undeserving of any honors from
their party ; and the ungrateful and ungracious manner, with
the countenance shown by Mr. Jefferson when he presented
me with the medal, was a convincing proof that, while he
executed the law in doing it, he felt as much rancor as he did
(when Vice-President) at signing the late Judiciary bill as Presi-
dent of the Senate. When I have the honor to see you, I will
detail further the conduct of the administration in my case ; till
then, I trust that my friends will stand convinced that I have
only acted as an officer ought to act for his own honor, and for
the honor and good of his country. For it would have been
running, as I have stated, every risk to have proceeded in the
service directed in the manner it was intended to dispatch me, if
it ever was intended to dispatch me.

I have the honor to be, &c,

Thomas Truxtun.

536 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

New-York, April 6th, 1802.

Amidst the humiliating circumstances which attend our
country, all the sound part of the community must find cause of
triumph in the brilliant display of talents which have been em-
ployed, though without success, in resisting the follies of an infat-
uated administration ; and your personal friends will not have
much reason for mortification on account of the part you have
performed in the interesting scene. But, my dear sir, we must
not content ourselves with a temporary effort to oppose the ap-
proach of evil. We must derive instruction from the experience
before us; and learning to form a just estimate of the things to
which we have been attached, there must be a systematic and
persevering endeavor to establish the fortune of a great empire
on foundations much firmer than have yet been devised. What
will signify a vibration of power, if it cannot be used with confi-
dence or energy, and must be again quickly restored to hands
which will prostrate, much faster than we shall be able to rear,
under so frail a system ? Nothing will be done, until the struc-
ture of our national edifice shall be such as naturally to control
eccentric passions and views, and to keep in check demagogues
and knaves in the disguise of patriots. Yet, I fear a different
reasoning will prevail, and an eagerness to recover lost power
will betray us into expedients which will be injurious to the
country, and disgraceful and ruinous to ourselves. What meant
the apparition and the toast which made part of the after-piece of
the birthday festival? Is it possible that some new intrigue is
about to link the federalists with a man who can never be any
thing else than the bane of a good cause? I dread more from
this than from all the contrivances of the bloated and senseless
junto of Virginia.

The federalists and anti-federalists of this State united in cer-
tain amendments to the Constitution now before your House,
having for objects, 1st, to discriminate the candidates for the
Presidency and Vice-Presidency ; 2d, to have the electors of these

J5T.4SJ] CORRESPONDENCE. 537

officers chosen by the people, in districts, under the direction of
Congress. Both these appear to me points of importance in true
federal calculation. Surely the scene of last session ought to
teach us the intrinsic demerits of the existing plan. It proved to
us, how possible it is for a man in whom no party had confidence,
and who deserves the confidence of none, by mere intrigue and
accident, to acquire the first place in the government of our na-
tion ; and it also proves to us, how serious a danger of convul-
sion and disorder is incident to the plan. On this point, things
have come to my knowledge improper for a letter, which would
astonish you. Surely, we ought by this time to have learnt, that
whatever multiplies the opportunities and means of cabal, is more
favorable to our adversaries than to us. They have certainly the
advantage in the game, by greater zeal, activity, and subtlety ;
and especially by an abandonment of principle. On all these ac-
counts, it is our true policy to abridge the facilities to cabal, as
much as possible, in all our public institutions and measures. As
to the second of the amendments, it has ever appeared to me as
sound principle to let the federal government rest, as much as
possible, on the shoulders of the people, and as little as possible on
those of the State legislatures. The proposition accords with this
principle ; and, in my view, it is farther recommended by its ten-
dency to exclude combination, which, I am persuaded, in the gen-
eral and permanent course of things, will operate more against
than for us. Colonel Burr, without doubt, will resist these
amendments ; and he may induce some of our friends to play into
his hands; but this will be a very bad calculation, even admit-
ting the inadmissible idea, that he ought to be adopted as a chief
of the federal party. We never can have him fairly in our power,
till we render his situation absolutely hopeless with his old
friends. While the indiscriminate voting prevails, he will find it
his interest to play fast and loose, and to keep himself in a state
to be at the head of the anti-federal party. If these hopes are
cut off, he will immediately set about forming a third party, of
which he will be at the head ; and then, if we think it worth the
while, we can purchase him with his flying squadrons.

These observations are, of course, hypothetical : for, to my

538 HAMILTON'S WORKS [Mr. 45.

mind, the elevation of Mr. Burr, by federal means, to the chief
magistracy of the United States, will be the worst kind of politi-
cal suicide. Adieu, my dear Sir,

Yours very sincerely, &c.

KING TO HAMILTON.

London, April 8th, 1802.

Dear Sir:

By Dr. Romayne I send you a pamphlet lately written upon
the interesting subject of the public credit of this country. The
author is a member of Parliament, an old and practical banker
— brother to the President of the Bank of England, and for
many years much conversant with the great money operations of
the country. When you have read it, I ask the favor of you to
send it, together with the other pamphlet respecting the sugar
colonies, to our friend Mr. George Cabot.

I do not enter upon the situation of Europe since the peace.
It would be too long a labor to do so. While the war lasted,
constant and endless occasions presented themselves to employ
myself here in the benefit of our countrymen, and I flatter my-
self for the public advantage.

The revision of our commercial treaty has been a service,
to which I have all along looked as the conclusion of my mis-
sion. As, however, I have no reason to suppose it likely soon
to take place, I am not much inclined to remain here a mere
figurant, and I am therefore seriously thinking of my return.
Without deciding any thing on this point, I confidentially ask
your opinion respecting it. This I have not done except in the
present instance.

Very faithfully, &c.

Before returning, I am desirous to pass a few months upon
the continent.

Mr. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. ^39

BAYARD TO HAMILTON.

Washington, April 12th, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

The apprehensions you appear to entertain of the effect of
the intrigues of a certain person, if you will take my word for it,
are wholly without ground.

In fact, little has been attempted and nothing accomplished.
I answer only for the time present, because I believe the gentle-
man is waiting to see the result of the new state of things more
completely developed before he decides upon the course he will
pursue. The apparition in the afterpiece was not unexpected, but
the toast was.

An intimation was given, that, if he was sensible of no im-
propriety in being our guest upon the occasion, his company
would be very acceptable ; our calculation was that he had less
chance of gaining than losing by accepting the invitation. We
knew the impression which the coincidence of circumstances
would make upon a certain great personage, how readily that
impression would be communicated to the proud and aspiring
lords of the Ancient Dominion, and we have not been mistaken
as to the jealousy we expected it would excite through the
party.

Be assured, the apparition was much less frightful to those
who saw it, than to many who heard of the place where it ap-
peared. The toast was indiscreet, and extremely well calculated
to answer our views. It will not be an easy task to impose
upon the federalists here, united and communicative as they are
at present ; and you may rely, that no eagerness to recover lost
power will betray them into any doctrines or compromises, re-
pugnant or dangerous to their former principles. We shall pro-
bably pay more attention to public opinion than we have here-
tofore done, and take more pains, not merely to do right things,
but to do them in an acceptable manner. I perfectly agree in
opinion with you as to the propriety of the proposed amend-
ments to the Constitution. They are recommended strongly by

540 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

both reason and experience. You have seen the patchwork of-
fered to us as a new judicial system. The whole is designed to
cover one object, which the party consider it necessary to accom-
plish— the postponement of the next session of the Supreme
Court to February following. They mean to give to the repeal-
ing act its full effect, before the judges of the Supreme Court are
allowed to assemble. Have you thought of the steps which our
party ought to pursue on this subject ? There will be a meet-
ing to concert an uniform plan of acting or acquiescing before
Congress adjourns, to be recommended in the manner which
shall be thought advisable.

We beg your opinion. You know the value we set upon it,
and the influence it will have on our determination.

A joint committee of the two houses have agreed upon Mon-
day the 26th of the present month, as the day of adjournment.

Yours, &c.

HAMILTON TO BAYARD.

New-York, April, 1802.

My Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 12th instant has relieved me from some
apprehension. Yet it is well that it should be perfectly under-
stood by the truly sound part of the federalists, that there do in
fact exist intrigues in good earnest between several individuals
not unimportant, of the federal party, and the person in ques-
tion, which are bottomed upon motives and views by no means
auspicious to the real welfare of the country. I am glad to find
that it is in contemplation to adopt a plan of conduct. It is very
necessary ; and, to be useful, it must be efficient and comprehen-
sive in the means which it embraces, at the same time that it
must meditate none which are not really constitutional and
patriotic. I will comply with your invitation by submitting
some ideas which, from time to time, have passed through my
mind. Nothing is more fallacious than to expect to produce any

Mt. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 541

valuable or permanent results in political projects, by relying
merely on the reason of men. Men are rather reasoning than
reasonable animals, for the most part governed by the impulse of
passion. This is a truth well understood by our adversaries, who
have practised upon it with no small benefit to their cause ; for
at the very moment they are eulogizing the reason of men, and
professing to appeal only to that faculty, they are courting the
strongest and most active passion of the human heart, vanity !
It is no less true, that the federalists seem not to have attended
to the fact sufficiently ; and that they erred in relying so much
on the rectitude and utility of their measures as to have neglect-
ed the cultivation of popular favor, by fair and justifiable
expedients. The observation has been repeatedly made by me
to individuals with whom I particularly conversed, and expedi-
ents suggested, for gaining good will, which were never adopted.
Unluckily, however, for us, in the competition for the passions
of the people, our opponents have great advantages over us ;
for the plain reason that the vicious are far more active than the
good passions ; and that, to win the latter to our side, we must
renounce our principles and our objects, and unite in corrupting
public opinion, till it becomes fit for nothing but mischief. Yet,
unless we can contrive to take hold 0/, and carry along with us
some strong feelings of the mind, we shall in vain calculate upon
any substantial or durable results. Whatever plan we may
adopt, to be successful, must be founded on the truth of this pro-
position. And perhaps it is not very easy for us to give it full
effects ; epecially not without some deviations from what, on other
occasions, we have maintained to be right. But in determining
upon the propriety of the deviations, we must consider whether
it be possible for us to succeed, without, in some degree, em-
ploying the weapons which have been employed against us, and
whether the actual state, and future prospect of things, be not
such as to justify the reciprocal use of them. I need not tell
you that I do not mean to countenance the imitation of things
intrinsically unworthy, but only of such as may be denominated
irregular ; sucb as, in a sound and stable order of things, ought
not to exist. Neither are you to infer that any revolutionary

542 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

result is contemplated. In my opinion, the present Constitution
is the standard to which we are to cling. Under its banners,
bona fide, must we combat our political foes, rejecting all changes
but through the channel itself provides for amendments. By
these general views of the subject, have my reflections been
guided. I now offer you the outline of the plan which they
have suggested. Let an association be formed to be denomina-
ted " The Christian Constitutional Society." Its objects to be,

1st. The support of the Christian religion.

2d. The support of the Constitution of the United States.

Its organization.

1st. A council, consisting of a president and twelve members,
of whom four and the president to be a quorum.

2d. A sub-directing council in each State, consisting of a
vice-president and twelve members, of whom four, with the vice-
president, to be a quorum ; and 3d, as many branches in each
State as local circumstances may permit to be formed by the sub-
directing council.

The meeting at Washington to nominate the president and
vice, together with four members of each of the councils, who
are to complete their own numbers respectively.

Its means.

1st. The diffusion of information. For this purpose not only
the newspapers but pamphlets must be largely employed ; and to
do this a fund must be created ; five dollars annually, for eight
years, to be contributed by each member who can really afford
it (taking care not to burthen the less able brethren), may afford
a competent fund for a competent term. It is essential to be
able to disseminate gratis useful publications. Wherever it can
be done, and there is a press, clubs should be formed, to meet
once a week, read the newspapers, and prepare essays, para-
graphs, &c.

2d. The use of all lawful means in concert to promote the
election of Jit men ; a lively correspondence must be kept up be-
tween the different societies.

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 543

3d. The promoting of institutions of a charitable and useful
nature in the management of federalists. The populous cities
ought particularly to be attended to ; perhaps it would be well
to institute in such places — 1st, societies for the relief of emi-
grants ; 2d, academies, each with one professor, for instructing
the different classes of mechanics in the principles of mechanics
and the elements of chemistry. The cities have been employed
by the Jacobins to give an impulse to the country ; and it is be-
lieved to be an alarming fact, that while the question of Presi-
dential election was pending in the House of Representatives,
parties were organizing in several of the cities in the event of
there being no election, to cut off the leading federalists and seize
the government.

The foregoing to be the principal engine, and in addition, let
measures be adopted to bring as soon as possible the repeal of
the Judiciary law before the Supreme Court ; afterwards, if not
before, let as many legislatures as can be prevailed upon, instruct
their Senators to endeavor to procure a repeal of the repealing
law. The body of New England, speaking the same language,
will give a powerful impulse. In Congress our friends to propose
little, to agree cordially to all good measures, and to resist and ex-
pose all bad. This is a general sketch of what has occurred to me.
It is at the service of my friends for so much as it may be worth.
With true esteem and regard, dear Sir, yours, &c.

BAYARD TO HAMILTON".

Washington, 25th April, 1802.

Dear Sir :

I have considered with a great deal of attention the project
recommended in your last letter, of connected associations in the
different States, for the support of our Constitution and religion.
The plan is marked with great ingenuity, but I am not inclined
to think that it is applicable to the state of things in this coun-
try. Such an association must be bottomed upon a stronger and

544 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

more active principle than reason, or even a sense of common
interest, to render it successful. There is more material for such
an association upon the other side than upon ours. We have
the greater number of political calculators, and they of political
fanatics.

An attempt at association, organized into clubs, on the part
of the federalists, would revive at housand jealousies and suspi-
cions which now begin to slumber.

Let us not be too impatient, and our adversaries will soon de-
monstrate to the world the soundness of our doctrines, and the
imbecility and folly of their own. Without any exertion upon
our part, in the course of two or three years they will render
every honest man in the country our proselyte.

A degree of agitation and vibration of opinion must for ever
prevail under a government so free as that of the United States.
Under such a government, in the nature of things, it is impossible
to fix public opinion. It is still left to the exertions of good men
to prevent infinite evils, to which the country is exposed from
the selfish and ambitious intrigues of demagogues.

The President's party in Congress is much weaker than you
would be led to judge from the printed state of votes. Here we
plainly discern that there is no confidence, nor the smallest at-
tachment prevails among them.

The spirit which existed at the beginning of the session is en-
tirely dissipated : a more rapid and radical change could not
have been anticipated.

An occasion is only wanting for Virginia to find herself
abandoned by all her auxiliaries, and she would be abandoned
upon the ground of her inimical principles to an efficient federal
government.

Upon the subject of the judiciary, I have had an opportu-
nity of learning the opinions of the Chief Justice. He considers
the late repealing act as operative in depriving the judges of all
power derived under the act repealed.

The office still remains, which he holds to be a mere capacity,
without a new appointment, to receive and exercise any new ju-
dicial powers which the legislature may confer. It has been

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 545

considered here as the most advisable course for the circuit courts
to pursue, will be at the end of their ensuing session to adjourn
generally, and to leave what remains to be done to the Supreme
Court.

PINCKNEY TO HAMILTON.

Charleston, May 3d, 1802.

Dear Sir:

I was in Georgia when your favor of the 15th of March ar-
rived in Charleston, and when I received it it was too late to set
out for Washington, to be there at the time mentioned, even if I
had been prepared for such a jaunt. I agree entirely with you
in your sentiments of the act repealing the act of the last session
for the better organization of the judiciary department; but it
was natural to expect that persons who have been always hostile
to the constitution, would, when they had power, endeavor to de-
stroy a work whose adoption they opposed, and whose execution
they have constantly counteracted. But I do not imagine they
will stop here. They will proceed in their mad and wicked
career, and the people's eyes will be opened. If you have been
able to effect a meeting, I should be glad to hear of the result.
I did not write to General Davie, as I knew he had lately met
with a loss in his family, which would prevent his being with
you, even if he had time.

Be so obliging as to acquaint the editor of the Herald 'that
none of his South Carolina subscribers have received more than
three parcels of papers from him. If he was regular in the
transmitting of them, I am sure he would receive encouragement
in this State ; but the irregularity and negligence of the persons
who put them up will occasion most of those who now subscribe
to withdraw their names another year. From Boston, Philadel-
phia, and Washington, I get the papers punctually. I am obliged
F 35

546 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45.

to you for making me acquainted with Prince Kuspole. I found
him well informed. He sails for Europe to-morrow.
I am always your affectionate friend,

Chaeles Cotesworth Pinceney.

HAMILTON TO KING.

New-York, June 3, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

I have been long very delinquent towards you as a corres-
pondent, and am to thank you that you have not cast me off
altogether as an irretrievable reprobate. But you know how to
appreciate the causes, and you have made a construction equally
just and indulgent.

In your last you ask my opinion about a matter delicate and
important, both in a public and in a personal view. I shall give
it with the frankness to which you have a right, and I may add
that the impressions of your other friends, so far as they have
fallen under my observation, do not differ from my own. While
you were in the midst of a negotiation interesting to your coun-
try, it was your duty to keep your post. You have now accom-
plished the object, and with the good fortune, not very common,
of having the universal plaudit. This done, it seems to me most
advisable that you return home. There is little probability that
your continuance in your present station will be productive of
much positive good. Nor are circumstances such as to give
reason to apprehend that the substitute for you, whoever he may
be, can do much harm. Your stay or return, therefore, as it
regards our transatlantic concerns, is probably not material,
while your presence at home may be useful in ways which it is
not necessary to particularize. Besides, it is questionable whether
you can long continue in the service of the present administra-
tion, consistently with what is due as well to your own char-
acter as to the common cause. I am far from thinking that a

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 547

man is bound to quit a public office, merely because the adminis-
tration of the government may have changed hands. But when
those who have come into power are undisguised persecutors of the
party to which he has been attached, and study with ostentation
to heap upon it every indignity and injury — he ought not, in my
opinion, to permit himself to be made an exception, or to lend
his talents to the support of such characters. If, in addition to
this, it be true that the principles and plans of the men at the
head of affairs tend to the degradation of the government, and to
their own disgrace, it will hardly be possible to be in any way
connected with them without sharing in the disrepute which they
may be destined to experience.

I wish I had time to give you a comprehensive and particular
map of our political situation ; but more than a rude outline is
beyond my leisure, devoted as I am more than ever to my profes-
sional pursuits.

You have seen the course of the administration hitherto,
especially during the last session of Congress ; and I am per-
suaded you will agree with me in opinion, that it could hardly
have been more diligent in mischief. What, you will ask, has
been and is likely to be the effect on the public mind ?

Our friends are sanguine that a great change for the better
has been wrought and is progressive. I suppose good has been
done — that the federalists have been reunited and cemented;
have been awakened, alarmed. Perhaps, too, there may be some
sensible and moderate men of the opposite party who are begin-
ning to doubt. But I as yet discover no satisfactory symptoms
of a revolution of opinion in the mass — " informe ingens cui
lumen ademptum." Nor do I look with much expectation to
any serious alteration until inconveniences are extensively felt,
or until time has produced a disposition to coquet it with new
lovers. Vibrations of power, you are aware, are of the genius
of our government.

There is, however, a circumstance which may accelerate the
fall of the present party. There is certainly a most serious
schism between the chief and his heir-apparent ; a schism abso-
lutely incurable, because founded in the hearts of both, in the

£48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 45.

rivalship of an insatiable and unprincipled ambition. The effects
are already apparent, and are ripening into a more bitter ani-
mosity between the partisans of the two men, than ever existed
between the federalists and anti-federalists.

Unluckily, we are not as neutral to this quarrel as we ought
to be. You saw, however, how far our friends in Congress went
in polluting themselves with the support of the second personage
for the Presidency. The cabal did not terminate there. Several
men of no inconsiderable importance among us like the enter-
prising and adventurous character of this man, and hope to soar
with him to power. Many more, through hatred to the chief,
and through an impatience to recover the reins, are linking them-
selves to the new chief almost without perceiving it, and pro-
fessing to have no other object than to make use of him ; while
he knows that he is making use of them. What this may end
in, it is difficult to perceive.

Of one thing only I am sure, that in no event will I be directly
or indirectly implicated in a responsibility for the elevation or
support of either of two men who, in different senses, are in my
eyes equally unworthy 'of the confidence of intelligent or honest
men.

Truly, my dear sir, the prospects of our country are not bril-
liant. The mass is far from sound. At head quarters a most
visionary theory presides. Depend upon it, this is the fact to a
great extreme. No army, no navy, no active commerce ; national
defence, not by arms, but by embargoes, prohibitions of trade,
&c. ; as little government as possible within ; these are the per-
nicious dreams which, as far and as fast as possible, will be
attempted to be realized. Mr. Jefferson is distressed at the cod-
fish having latterly emigrated to the southern coast, lest the
people there should be tempted to catch them, and commerce, of
which we have already too much, receive an accession. Be
assured this is no pleasantry, but a very sober anecdote.

Among federalists old errors are not cured. They also con-
tinue to dream, though not quite so preposterously as their op-
ponents. All will be very well (say they) when the power once
gets back into federal hands. The people, convinced by experi-

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 549

ence of their error, will repose a permanent confidence in good
men. Risum teneatis? Adieu.

Yours ever,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO WOLCOTT.

Grange, August 14, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

When you were last in town, I proposed to communicate to
jou the outline of a project, by which I think you may enter
upon a career of business beneficial to yourself and friends. My
almost constant attendance at court ever since you were here, has
retarded the communication which I shall now make.

Let a commercial capital be found, to consist of 100,000 dol-
lars, divided into shares of $100 each. A subscriber to pay in
cash one-tenth of his subscription, and for the residue 7 per centum
per annum. It will then be his interest to pay up as soon as
he can.

The subscribers to form a partnership, under the firm of
Oliver Wolcott & Co. ; Oliver Wolcott alone to have the signa-
ture of the firm, and the active management of the affairs of the
company, with an allowance of $1500 per annum out of the
profits for the trouble of management, besides his share of profits
as a partner.

Oliver Wolcott and two others of the partners to form a
board of direction, to plan, &c.

Clerks and all incidental expenses to be paid out of the fund.

The objects of the company.

1. Agencies for purchase and sales of lands, stocks, &c.

2. Factorage of cargoes, consigned on commission ; purchases
of goods on commission, &c. ; in brief, "the business of a com-
mission merchant merely."

3. Purchases at auction, and sales of the articles purchased.

550 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45-

4. Loans of money on deposit of goods, with a right, if not
redeemed in time, to sell on commission, perhaps.

Speculative enterprises in navigation and commerce to be ex-
cluded.

In a company thus formed under your management, I should
be willing to become a partner for from 5 to 10,000 dollars, and
I have no doubt that the capital will be readily formed of confi-
dential and trust-worthy characters, who would insure great
credit to the house. I am also confident, that when it should be
known in Europe that certain characters were of the company,
it would attract a good portion of*profitable employment.

I will enter into no farther detail. If the project impresses
you favorably, come to New- York, and we will give it form, and
finish and prepare for the execution. Do not lightly reject it.
Yours, very truly, &c.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Grange, September 4th, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

I fully intended to have dined with you to-day, but, going to
town the two last days, and forgetting that I ought to observe a
regimen, I have brought back, in some degree, the complaint
which lately annoyed me, and which requires to be well watched.
This must deprive me of the pleasure of seeing you.

I send schedules of the papers required of Tillier, all which
have been put into my hands ; the bills to remain till the close
of the affair ; the other documents to be delivered to your
order.

I also send a draught of the trust deed. It endeavors to
comply with your suggestion, as far as can be done without run-
ning foul of the danger desired to be avoided.

Your guests are invited to dine with us Thursday next.
"Will you make one ?

JEt. 45.] CORRESPONDENCE. 551

HAMILTON TO GEN. C. C. PINCKNEY.

Grange (New- York), Dec. 29, 1802.

My Dear Sir :

A garden, you know, is a very usual refuge of a disappointed
politician. Accordingly, I have purchased a few acres about
nine miles from town, have built a house, and am cultivating a
garden. The melons in your country are very fine. Will you
have the goodness to send me some seed, both of the water and
musk melons? My daughter •adds another request, which is for
three or four of your paroquets. She is very fond of birds. If
there be any thing in this quarter, the sending of which can give
you pleasure, you have only to name them. As farmers, a new
source of sympathy has arisen between us, and I am pleased
with every thing in which our likings and tastes can be approx-
imated. Amidst the triumphant reign of democracy, do you
retain sufficient interest in public affairs to feel any curiosity
about what is going on ? In my opinion, the follies and vices of
the administration have as yet made no material impression to
their disadvantage. On the contrary, I think the malady is
rather progressive than upon the decline, in our northern quar-
ter. The last lullaby message, instead of inspiring contempt,
attracts praise. Mankind are for ever destined to be the dupes
of bold or cunning imposture. But a difficult knot has been
twisted by the incidents of the cession of Louisiana, and the in-
terruption of the deposit of New Orleans. You have seen the
soft tuj-n given to this in the message. Yet we are told that the
President, in conversation, is very stout. The great embarrass-
ment must be how to carry on the war without taxes. The
pretty scheme of substituting economy to taxation will not do
here. And a war would be a terrible comment upon the aban-
donment of the internal revenue. Yet how is popularity to be
preserved with the western partisans, if their interests are tamely
sacrificed ? Will the artifice be for the chief to hold a bold lan-
guage, and the subalterns to act a feeble part? Time must
explain. You know my general theory as to our western affairs.

552 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 46.

I have always held that the unity of our Empire, and the best
interests of our nation, require that we shall annex to the United
States all the territory east of the Mississippi, New Orleans
included. Of course I infer that, on an emergency like the pre-
sent, energy is wisdom.

Adieu, my dear Sir.

Ever yours, &c.

Mrs. Hamilton joins me in affectionate compliments to Mrs.
Pinckney.

SEDGWICK TO HAMILTON.

Stockbridge, January 27th, 1803.

Dear Sir:

This will be handed to you by a Mr. Thomas Fitch, and at his
desire is addressed to his care. He wishes for the honor of being
known to you, and he hopes for the aid of your patronage in the
pursuit of some object of which I have no distinct knowledge. He
is of an obscure, though reputable family in this neighborhood.
The President of the College where he was educated, a good and
respectable man, has spoken to me of his talents and acquire-
ments in terms above the degree which could be expressed by
the epithet decent, and of his moral character as perfectly pure.

I regret exceedingly that I had not the pleasure to see you
here last autumn. There is not a man on earth, whose company
would have given me more pleasure. Of this enough, because
you know the fact to be so without my affirmation.

What think you of democracy ? Will it not progress suc-
cessfully until its evils are felt \ For myself, I have no doubt
that it will. Even in this State, great sacrifices are made to
popular passions and prejudices, and they are deemed necessary
to retain the powers of our government in federal hands. There
is one consolation under all the humiliation which we endure
from a sense of the degradation of our national character. This

,Et. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 553

state of things cannot long exist. The disorganization which is
the inevitable effect of the enfeebling policy of democracy will
produce such intolerable evils as will necessarily destroy their
cause. All that good and enlightened men can hope is to be in
such a state as that their talents and experience at that period
may be applied to the public benefit. For that purpose, union
of conduct and sympathy of sentiment ought now to be cultiva-
ted. This is of the utmost importance, that the conduct of certain
men should be constantly regulated by these important consider-
ations. Hence it was I was pleased with the idea which you
suggested, when I first had the pleasure of seeing you, of a
confidential meeting, and I have very much regretted that it did
not take place.

It is very important that the federalists should retain and
acquire the possession of the State governments wherever in
their power. For this reason, and indeed for many others, I am
glad Mr. King is about to return home. With wisdom and pru-
dence, I think it is probable that he may be placed at the head of
the government of New- York. He may there do infinitely more
good than in the inefficient office of Vice-President. General
Pinckney must in all events be considered as our candidate for
the first office. I have been inexpressibly disgusted with some
of our friends who have suggested that we ought to consider
him only as designed for the second. There is, however, anoth-
er consideration on the subject which ought to be considered as
conclusive. We shall most certainly not succeed at the next
election, nor is it, in my mind, desirable that we should. Should
Mr. King be holden up for this office, it would lessen at
least the probability of his success for the government of New-
York.

There seems to me an inexcusable indolence or a want of
ability among our friends at Washington. The public interest
has been shamefully neglected, or profligately sacrificed in the
affairs of Louisiana, the compromise with Georgia, and in the at-
tempt made to break down our system of navigation. These
subjects either are not understood, or there is a criminal inatten-
tion to them.

554 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 46.

Next week I go to Boston, where I wish you would have
the goodness to address a letter to me. Present my sincere re-
gards to Mrs. Hamilton, and believe me, as I truly am, your
friend.

PINCKNEY TO HAMILTON.

Charleston, March 6th, 1803.

My Dear Sir:

I wrote you a few lines yesterday, and sent you some water-
melon seeds and musk-melon seeds by the brig Charleston Pack-
et, which sails this morning. I formerly sent some to Mrs.
Washington, at Mount Vernon, but she told me they did not
answer so well as some she got in the neighborhood ; perhaps
had she planted the seeds from the melons which were produced
from the Carolina seed the subsequent year, they would have
adapted themselves to the climate and produced good fruit. It
was by this means we obtained our fine cotton, which has been
of such advantage to our State. The first year it produced but
three or four pods ; by planting the seed of these pods the
second year, they produced thirty ; and by following the same
method, the third year they were thoroughly naturalized, and bore
from one hundred and fifty to two hundred pods. I will also
send you by the Industry a few seeds of the salvia cocinea, or
scarlet sage, which I believe you have not with you, and of the
erythrina herbacea, or coral shrub ; also a few seeds of the Indian
creeper, and some of a beautiful purple convolvulus.

I will endeavor to obtain some paroquets for Miss Hamilton.
I have not seen any for some years; ours are the large kind, by
no means equal in beauty to the small African species.

Does there not appear to be a great want of nerve and en-
ergy in the measures our rulers are adopting ? They are not
calculated to avoid war, and we shall have to encounter it in a
shameful state of unpreparedness. Yet such is the infatuation

Mr. 46.]

CORRESPONDENCE. 555

of the people, that anti-federalism certainly gains ground in this
State, which can only exist by a strong union and firm govern-
ment.

LA FAYETTE TO HAMILTON".

Paris, Germinal the 10th, 11th year.

My Dear Hamilton:

I would like by this opportunity to write you a long letter,
but having been lying on my back for two months past, and
being three weeks to come doomed to the same situation, I
must confine myself to a few lines written near my bed. The
particulars of the accident, and his cure, will be given to you by
General Bernadotte, whom I must particularly introduce, and his
lady, to Mrs. Hamilton and you. Politics I will not dwell upon.
My sentiments are so well known to you, that it were superflu-
ous to say what I think of Senatus-Consulta at home, and set-
tling colonies in North America; yet I hope this late affair may
still be arranged to mutual satisfaction, and I am sure nobody
could have better personal dispositions than my friend General
Bernadotte, who, to those high and brilliant abilities which have
so much contributed to the triumph of the French arms, joins
one of the most civic, generous, and candid hearts it is possible
to meet with. I know he sets a great value by the approbation
of the citizens of America, and is particularly desirous of your
acquaintance, and properly sensible of its advantages. I have
seen in the papers a letter from you relative to the transactions
at our York Town redoubt, in which I have found my friend
Hamilton's whole character, and the more pleased I have been
to receive it; as the attack had been some time known to me,
but on the proposal of some friends to write to you, I had an-
swered, you were on the spot, and would know better what was
best for me to be done. Adieu, my dear friend ; my best re-
spects to Mrs. Hamilton. Eemember me to our friends. I know

556 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 46.

you are most friendly interested in my private concerns, and
have ever depended upon it.

Most affectionately I am your constant friend,

La Fayette.

WALSTERSTORFF TO HAMILTON.

St. Croix, April 20th, 1803.

Dear General :

When I received your favor of the 5th August, I certainly
•did not think I should postpone so long answering it, and return-
ing you my thanks for this proof of your kind remembrance. I
shall offer you no apology for it, because there is none that would
be satisfactory to myself. I beg you only to be assured, dear
general, that there is not a character in America for whom I feel
a greater regard and respect than that of General Hamilton, whose
talents will no doubt soon again be called into action to the honor
and advantage of his country. * * *

You would oblige me very much by sending our friend, Dr.
Stevens, a copy of Camillus' letters, and of your later productions;
the only copj' of Camillus' letters which I had, I once lent to the
late Count Bernstorff, who begged of me to let him keep it in his
library as a Classical work — these were his expressions.

Accept my sincerest wishes for your happiness and that of
your family, and believe me to be, with the greatest regard and
the sincerest attachment, &c.

HAMILTON TO PICKERING.

New-York, Sept. 18th, 1803.

My Dear Sir:

I will make no apology for my delay in answering your in-
quiry, some time since made, because I could offer none which

jEt. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 557

would satisfy myself. I pray you only to believe that it proceed-
ed from any thing rather than want of respect or regard. I shall
now comply with your request. The highest toned propositions
which I made in the convention, were for a President, Senate, and
Judges, during good behavior — a House of Eepresentatives for
three years. Though I would have enlarged the legislative power
of the general government, yet I never contemplated the aboli-
tion of the State governments ; but, on the contrary, they were, in
some particulars, constituent parts of my plan. This plan was,
in my conception, conformable with the strict theory of a govern-
ment purely republican ; the essential criteria of which are, that
the principal organs of the executive and legislative departments
be elected by the people, and hold their offices by a resjionsible
and temporary or defeasible tenure. A vote was taken on the pro-
position respecting the Executive. Five States were in favor of
it ; among these, Virginia ; and .though, from the manner of
voting by delegations, individuals were not distinguished, it was
morally certain, from the known situation of the Virginia mem-
bers (six in number, two of them, Mason and Bandoljj/t, professing
popular doctrines), that Madison must have concurred in the vote
of Virginia — thus, if I sinned against republicanism, Mr. Madison
was not less guilty. I may truly, then, say, that I never pro-
posed either a President or Senate for life, and that I neither
recommended nor meditated the annihilation of the State govern-
ments. And I may add, that in the course of the discussions in
the convention, neither the propositions thrown out for debate,
nor even those voted, in the earlier stages of the deliberation, were
considered as evidences of a definitive opinion in the proposer or
voter. It appeared to me to be in some sort understood, that
with a view to free investigation, experimental propositions might
be made, which were to be received merely as suggestions for
consideration. Accordingly, it is a fact, that my final opinion
was against an Executive during good behavior, on account of
the increased danger to the public tranquillity incident to the
election of a magistrate of this degree of permanency. In the
plan of a constitution which I drew up while the convention was
sitting, and which I communicated to Mr. Madison about the

558 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 46.

close of it, perhaps a day or two after, the office of President has
no greater duration than for three years. This plan was predi-
cated upon these bases : — 1. That the political principles of the
people of this country would endure nothing but republican gov-
ernment. 2. That in the actual situation of the country, it was
in itself right and proper that the republican theory should have
a fair and full trial. 3. That to such a trial it was essential, that
the government should be so constructed as to give all the en-
ergy and stability reconcilable with the principles of that theory.
These were the genuine sentiments of my heart, and upon
them I acted. I sincerely hope that it may not hereafter be dis-
covered, that, through want of sufficient attention to the last idea,
the experiment of republican government, even in this country,
has not been as complete, as satisfactory, and as decisive as could
be wished.

Yery truly, dear Sir, your friend and servant.

PICKERING TO HAMILTON".

City of Washington, October 18, 1803.

Dear Sir :

I hoped to have seen you on my way hither; but the dis-
tance at which you were from the place of crossing the Hudson,
and my engagements with my travelling companions, prevented.

I duly received your letter of September 16th, relative to the
propositions you made in the general convention. It was obvi-
ous that those, with the propositions of others, were presented
for consideration and discussion, to be adopted and rejected as a
sense of the public safety should require, and by no means as the
definitive opinions of the movers.

Dining in company with General Pinckney, as he passed
through Salem, in September, I was asked by one of the guests
some questions concerning the nature of the propositions you
made in the general convention. I referred the inquirer to the

Mr. 41.] CORRESPONDENCE. 559

general, who was a member. He answered, that you proposed
that the governors of the several States should be appointed by
the President of the United States, but that Mr. Madison moved,
and was seconded by his cousin Charles Pinckney, that all the
laws of the individual States should be subject to the negative
of the chief executive of the United States. The general added,
that he did not know which would be deemed the strongest
measure.

You will see in the newspapers the President's message, but
perhaps you may wish to have it in a more convenient form, and
I inclose it. If you desire to possess similar documents, which
shall be published in the course of the session, have the goodness
to let me know it ; and as any correspondence between us will be
liable to suspicions, be pleased to inform me how I shall make
any communications to you.

HAMILTON TO KING.

Albany, Fob. 24th, 1804.

My Dear Sir:

You will have heard before this reaches you of the fluctua-
tions and changes which have taken place in the measures of the
reigning party, as to a candidate for Governor ; and you will
probably have also been informed that, pursuant to the opinions
professed by our friends, before I left New-York I had taken an
active part in favor of Mr. Lansing.

It is a fact to be regretted, though anticipated, that the fed-
eralists very extensively had embarked with zeal in the support
of Mr. Burr; yet an impression to the contrary, and in favor of
Mr. Lansing, had been made, and there was good ground to hope
that a proper direction in the main might have been given to the
current of federalism. The substitution of Mr. Lewis has essen-
tially varied the prospect, and the best informed among us here
agree that the federalists, as a body, could not be diverted from

5G0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 47.

Mr. Burr to Mr. Lewis, by any efforts of leading characters, if
they should even deem the support of the latter expedient.

Though I have no reason to think that my original calcula-
tion was wrong, while the competition was between Clinton and
Burr, yet from the moment the former declined, I began to con-
sider the latter as having a chance of success. It was still, how-
ever, my reliance that Lansing would outrun him ; but now that
Chief Justice Lewis is the competitor, the probability in my
judgment inclines to Mr. Burr.

Thus situated, two questions have arisen; first, whether a
federal candidate ought not to be run, as a means of supporting
Mr. Burr, and of keeping the federalists from becoming a per-
sonal faction allied to him. Second, whether, in the conflict of
parties as they now stand, the strongest of them disconcerted and
disjointed, there would not be a considerable hope of success for
a federal candidate.

These questions have received no solution in scarcely any
one's mind ; but it is agreed that, if an attempt is to be made,
you must be the candidate. There is no other man among us
under whose standard either fragment of the democratic party
could as easily rally. It is enough to say, you have been absent
during the time in which party animosities have become matured
and fixed, and, therefore, are much less than any other distin-
guished federalist, an object of them.

To detach the federalists from Burr, they must believe two
things : one, that we are in earnest as to our candidate, and that
it is not a mere diversion ; the other, that there is some chance
of success. All believe, and some leading candidates admit, that
if either of the two democratic rival parties should come to ex-
pect a defeat, they will range themselves under your banner.

Reflect well on all these things, and make up your mind in
case you should be invited to consent. I have not time to
enlarge.

Yours very truly, &c,

JEt. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 561

HAMILTON TO GOVERNOR CLINTON.

Albany, February 27, 1804.

Sir:

It is now a long time since a very odious slander has been in
circulation to the prejudice of my character.

It has come to my ears in more than one way, but always,
till lately, without the disclosure of any source to which I could
resort for explanation or detection. Within a few days, Mr.
Kane, of this city, related to me a story as coming from Judge
Purdy, in substance very similar to the calumny to which I have
alluded. The amount of his information, and the result of an
interview with Judge Purdy, are contained in the inclosed paper.
You will observe, sir, that your name is implicated in the trans-
action. AYith what warrant, it would be improper for me to pre-
judge. But the very mention of your name adds importance to
the affair, and increases the motives to investigation.

The charge, even in the mitigated form to which it is reduced
by Judge Purdy 's admission, is of a nature too derogatory to
permit me to pass it lightly over. It is essential that its origin
and progress should be traced as fully as may be practicable, in
order to the thorough exposure of its falsehood and malignity.

The assertions of Judge Purdy authorize me to appeal to you
for a frank and candid explanation of so much of the matter as
relates to yourself. This explanation I request as speedily as
may be.

CLINTON TO HAMILTON.

Albany, 29th Feb., 1804.

Sir:

This is the first moment's leisure I have had to answer your
letter of the 27th inst., which was handed to me yesterday. I
have carefully perused the paper it inclosed, under the signature
F 36

5G2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 46.

of Mr. James Kane, and find the statement of the transaction
alluded to, as admitted by Judge Purdy, to be correct as far as
my name is implicated ; and I believe it contains, as reduced by
Judge Purdy, the substance of all the conversations that passed
between him and me on that subject. I recollect to have men-
tioned to him that I had seen the copy of a letter similar to the
one mentioned in the statement on or about the time the conven-
tion, which formed our federal constitution, was sitting. This
copy was put into my hands by the late General Malcolm, who
informed me he had received it from Connecticut. It was with-
out signature or direction.

I have the honor to be,

Your most obedient servant,

Geo. Clinton.

HAMILTON TO CLINTON.

Albany, March 2, 1804.

Sir:

If our correspondence does not terminate with your letter of
the 29th February, received yesterday, I wish it to be under-
stood that it proceeds merely from the desire of removing all
ambiguity from a transaction in which my character may be
materially interested.

It is perhaps the natural inference from what you have stated,
that nothing took place on your part to sanction or corroborate
the story related to you by Judge Purdy, in reference to any
agency or co-operation of mine in the supposed project. Yet
some of the circumstances are such, that a different inference
might possibly be drawn.

I therefore trust that you will be sensible of the propriety of
dissipating all obscurity on this point.

If the letter, which you mention to have been put into your
hands by General Malcolm, was not withdrawn by him, or if
any copy was retained by you, it would be satisfactory to me to

.l.T. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 563

have an inspectionof the one or the other, with leave to take a
copy, in order that I may have an additional clue to the source of
a story, which I verily believe originated entirely in a fabrication.
I have the honor to be,

Your Excellency's obedient servant, &c.

CLINTON TO HAMILTON.

Albany, March 6th, 1804.

Sir:

I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 2d instant.
I cannot conceive it possible that inferences can be drawn from
any circumstance attending the transaction alluded to, repugnant
to the explicit declarations in my letter to you of the 29th of last
month, without calling in question the truth of them, and this I
trust will not be attempted. It was not to be expected that I
could recollect, so as to repeat the precise words used in the con-
versation which Judge Purdy had with me, nor is it essential to
your inquiries, as they would throw no light on the subject.

With respect to the copy of the letter put into my hands by
General Malcolm, it is a circumstance of so old a date, that I
dare not venture positively to assert that I returned it to him •
but I believe I did; and what serves to confirm me in this
opinion, is my not being able to find it amongst my papers.
The contents of it, however, were so interesting, as to make a
strong and durable impression on my mind. It recommended a
government for the United States similar to that of Great Britain,
and to obviate the difficulties which might attend fixing on a
suitable character for a king, and to form an intimate connection
with that country, the prince, Bishop of Osnaburgh, was pro-
posed. The House of Lords was to be composed partly of the
British hereditary nobility, and partly of such of our own citizens
as should have most merit in bringing about the measure. The
House of Commons to be elected by the people. In considera-

564 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mr. 46.

tion of this provision for one of the British royal family, Canada
was to be ceded to the United States, with a certain portion of
the British navy, and a perpetual treaty of alliance, offensive and
defensive, entered into between the two countries. The letter
was well written, and interspersed with much plausible reason-
ing, which I do not fully recollect, calculated to obviate any ob-
jections that might be raised against the measures it proposed,
and to show the advantages which would result from them.

The charge of having countenanced an attempt to establish a
monarchical government, however modified, in the United
States, I consider odious and disreputable, and I am pleased to
find that, however much we may differ on other political sub-
jects, we agree in sentiment as to this; and you may rest assured,
that should the copy of the letter alluded to be found amongst
my papers, or otherwise acquired by me, you shall have a copy
of it, with an opportunity of examining the original.

I am your most obedient servant.

HAMILTON TO CLINTON.

Albany, March 7th, 1804.

Sir:

On Saturday last I sent you a letter, of which the foregoing
is a copy, to which, as yet, I have received no reply.

Intending to leave this place for New-York on Saturday next,
it is important that I should receive an answer before that day.
I have the honor to be,

Your Excellency's obedient servant, &c.

Mt. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 565

HAMILTON TO CLINTON.

Albany, March 9, 1804.

Sir:

I had the honor of receiving yesterday, your excellency's let-
ter of the 6th instant. It is agreeable to me to find in it a con-
firmation of the inference that you had given no countenance
to the supposition of my agency or co-operation in the project
to which the story of Judge Purdy relates ; and it only remains
for me to regret, that it is not in your power to furnish the addi-
tional clue of which I was desirous, to aid me in tracing the fabri-
cation to its source.

I shall not only rely on the assurance which you give as to
the future communication of the copy of the letter in question,
should it hereafter come to your hands, but I will take the liberty
to add a request, that you will fce pleased to make known to me
any other circumstances, if any should reach, you, which may
serve to throw light upon the affair. I feel an anxiety that it
should be thoroughly sifted, not merely on my own account, but
from a conviction that the pretended existence of such a project,
long travelling about in whispers, has had no inconsiderable in-
fluence in exciting false alarms, and unjust suspicions, to the
prejudice of a number of individuals, every way worthy of pub-
lic confidence, who have always faithfully supported the existing
institutions of the country, and who would disdain to be con-
cerned in an intrigue with any foreign power, or its agents, either
for introducing monarchy, or for promoting or upholding any
other scheme of government within the United States.
I have the honor to be, &c.

566 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 46.

HAMILTON TO TALLEYRAND.

New-York, March 25, 1804.

Sir:

Presuming on the acquaintance, from which I derived much
pleasure during your stay in this country, I am going to take a
very great liberty. It concerns a near relation of mine, Mr.
Alexander Hamilton, now a prisoner of war on parole at Paris.

His brother, from whom I have just received a letter, informs
me that being on a visit to the continent, as a traveller, he was
overtaken by the war between France and Great Britain, and has
been since that time in the situation which I have mentioned.
He is a Scotch gentleman of education and literary acquirement,
who, having amassed a pretty handsome fortune in the East In-
dies, had returned to his own country to devote himself to the
pursuits of knowledge, and was induced to pass over to the con-
tinent to indulge his curiosity, with a particular eye to the very
interesting monuments of the arts, of which Paris is now the
depository.

I will ask nothing specific for him, because I know not what
could with propriety be done, contenting myself with merely
saying, that if your interposition can procure for him any facility,
indulgence, or favor, it will confer a personal obligation on one
who has the honor to

Eemain, with great respect.

HAMILTON TO

New-York, April 13th, 1804.

Dear Sir :

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you, and another

from Mr. . I have no doubt but that the latter would serve

you if he could, but he cannot at this time. On the whole, I

jEt. 46.] CORRESPONDENCE. 567

would advise you to return to New-York, and accept any re-
spectable employment in your way, till an opportunity of some-
thing better shall occur. 'Tis by patience and perseverance that
we can vanquish difficulties, and better our unpleasant condition.

Arraign not the dispensations of Providence. They must
be founded in wisdom and goodness, and when they do not suit
us, it must be because there is some fault in ourselves which de-
serves chastisement, or because there is a kind intent to correct
us in some vice or failing, of which perhaps we may not be con-
scious, or because the general plan requires that we should suffer
partial ill.

In this situation it is our duty to cultivate resignation, and
even humility, bearing in mind, in the language of the poet, that
it was " pride which lost the blest abodes."

With esteem and regard, &c.

HAMILTON TO STUYVESANT.

June 26, 1804.

Dear Sir :

I should like to see you on the subject of a poor fellow, Peter
Drinker, who says you have been employed for him, and appears
unfortunate, which is his title to my attention.

Yours truly.

HAMILTON TO SEDGWICK.

New-York, July 10, 1804.

My Dear Sir:

I have received two letters from you since we last saw each
other ; that of the latest date being the 2-ith of May. I have had
on hand for some time a long letter to you, explaining my view

568 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 20.

of the course and tendency of our politics, and my intentions as
to nay own future conduct. But my plan embraced so large a
range, that owing to much avocation, some indifferent health,
and a growing distaste to politics, the letter is still considerably
short of being finished. I write this now to satisfy you that
want of regard for you has not been the cause of my silence.

I will here express but one sentiment, which is, that dismem-
berment of our empire will be a clear sacrifice of great positive
advantages without any counterbalancing good, administering no
relief to our real disease, which is democracy, the poison of which
by a subdivision will only be the more concentrated in each part,
and consequently the more virulent. King is on his way for
Boston, where you may chance to see him, and hear from him-
self his sentiments.

God bless you.

A. H.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS, ROBERT LIVINGSTON,
AND ALLISON, ESQRS.

1777.*

Gentlemen :

With cheerfulness I embrace the proposal of corresponding
with your convention through you, and shall from time to time,
as far as my leisure will permit, and my duty warrant, just com-
municate transactions as shall happen, such pieces of intelligence
as shall be received, and such comments upon them as shall
appear necessary to convey a true idea of what is going on in
the military line. Let me caution you, however, that whatever
opinions I shall give in the course of our correspondence, are to
be considered merely as my private sentiments, and are never to

* For these letters, written in 1777, the Editor is indebted to the kindness of
Bishop Potter. They did not come into his possession until after the first volume
was in print.

jEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 569

be interpreted as an echo of those of the General ; since they
will not be really so, and a construction of the kind may lead
into errors and be productive of inconveniences.

The present season affords nothing of importance. There
are daily little skirmishes, arising from attempts of the enemy
to forage ; but which, though generally favorable to us, are at.
tended with consequences so trifling and insignificant as to be
scarcely worth mentioning. They are, indeed, of great service
in the general scale, as they serve to harass and distress the
enemy, and by keeping them from forage, will put them under
difficulties as to the transportation of their baggage and cannon,
whenever they shall think of making any capital movement.
One thing worthy of notice is, that hardly a day passes without
some deserter coming in. The fact itself, and the accounts they
concurrently give, prove that the spirit of desertion runs high;
and the reason assigned for it is, that many of the regiments have
been a very long time without pay, and that the men are most
barbarously treated if they only dare to lisp their discontent on
the score of it.

'Tis rumored that the Congress have received a letter from
Dr. Franklin, by which he seems to be in such high spirits as to
prognosticate a favorable disposition of affairs in the quarter
where he is. I was just now also transiently told that he had
been received in the public character of a plenipotentiary from
the American States. When it receives confirmation, I will give
it to you.

I shall observe your directions respecting a transference of
the company lately mine to the continental establishment, and in
my next shall communicate the result of my inquiry into the
present state of your cannon. The General is now perfectly re-
covered, and, added to the pleasure of returning health, enjoys
the solace of his lady's company, who has lately joined the army.
I am, with much respect, gentlemen,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

570 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 20.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS, ETC.

Head-Qoarters, Morristown, 2d March, 1777.

Gentlemen :

Two days ago I accepted your challenge, and met you for
the first time in the epistolary field ; since which I had the plea-
sure of receiving yours of the 19th instant, and, as far as circum-
stances will permit, close with your proposal of interchanging
blows twice a week.

The present time is so unfruitful of events, that it affords no
intelligence worth your notice. As to transactions of a military
nature, I can only say, that the British army continues to de-
crease by the daily loss of prisoners and deserters taken at and
coming into the different posts, which is a striking symptom that
the situation of affairs with the enemy is not so favorable as it
might be; for when an army is in good humor, and its affairs
prosperous, desertion is a disease that seldom prevails in it.

From all the accounts they have given us, seconded by con-
siderations that obviously present themselves, it is my opinion
the enemy will make no grand movement before the beginning
of May, and perhaps not then. There is no expectation in their
army of their being speedily called to the field, nor the least dis-
position of matters that I have heard of for a sudden excursion.
It will be a long time before the roads will be fit for the trans-
portation of artillery, which is an essential instrument in their
operations ; and a still longer before the ground will admit of an
encampment consistent with the health and comfort of the
soldiers; and it would defeat their purpose to undertake any
thing of importance under circumstances that would oblige them
to divide their army in order to accommodate it. It seems also
to be an opinion supported by the best reasons, that the main
object with which they will open the campaign will be the cap-
ture of Philadelphia. If so, they will have a greater probability
of success by co-operating both by sea and land ; and the prepa-
rations for this, added to the dangers of making an attempt by
water at too early a season, will in all likelihood protract the ex-
ecution of their project at least till the time I have mentioned.

Mat. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 571

I intimated that it might perhaps be later before they would
move. It seems to me a pretty general idea in their army, that
they will wait for reinforcements before they take the field.
Should they do this; I see not from what quarter they can expect
any succors worth mentioning, so early as the beginning of
May. But I would lay no great stress upon this. Notwithstand.
ing the idea is countenanced by their weakness in numbers,
which must make their success more doubtful, and expose them
to greater hazard in whatever they attempt than can be agreea-
ble, where so much is at stake, much will depend, however,
upon the comparative strength of our army, and the conception
they may form of it.

Though I do not doubt your discretion, which occasioned me
so readily to embrace your proposal, yet such is the delicacy of
my situation, that I must beg leave to repeat what I before ob-
served to you, that whenever I give opinions they are merely
my own, and will probably, so far from being a transcript of
those of the General, differ widely from them in many respects.
The one I now advance is of this kind, and is besides improper
to be generally circulated; for many people who have the man-
agement of affairs are of so lethargic a complexion that they are
to be kept in action only by the fear of immediate danger — and
should they get it into their heads that the enemy would remain
idle for six weeks, would think they had a right to doze away
forty da}^s at least.

In my last, I mentioned a rumor concerning Doctor Frank-
lin ; since that I have seen something said (and I believe it) to be
an extract of a letter from him to Mr. Bache, of Philadelphia,
in which he represents things to be in an excellent train in
France, and uses this strong emphatical language, that a war
between her and Britain " was as inevitable as death." No pub-
lic advices from him that I know of, have reached Head-Quar-
ters.

I spoke to General Knox about your cannon in the conti-
nental service. He answered that it would be difficult to ascer-
tain to what particular class the pieces that had been left
belonged ; but he considered the continent at all times bound

572 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 20.

to make good the number borrowed from your State ; and that
he had still your six pieces in his hands. I have always look-
ed upon the matter in the same light.

I have the honor to be,

Gentlemen,
Your most obedient servant,

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS, ETC.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, April 12th, 1777.

Gentlemen :

I this day have received your favor of the 8th instant. Hurry
of business prevents my entering into a particular detail of af-
fairs, either with respect to the enemy or ourselves, though mat-
ters remain much in the same situation as when I last wrote.
The enemy are unquestionably preparing to take the field as
soon as possible, notwithstanding which, I believe it may be full
as late as I at first suggested before they will be perfectly ready
for a general movement. By several persons who have come
out of New-York within these few days, it is pretty well confirm
ed that they have constructed a bridge to be laid upon boats, for
the purpose,, in all probability, of crossing the Delaware.

The new levies begin to come in from the southward, but not
in such large numbers as could be wished. It is to be hoped,
however, that we shall shortly be sufficiently reinforced to give
an effectual obstruction to their designs. The Congress have
resolved, if the General approves, to form a camp on the west
side of the Delaware, and have called upon Pennsylvania to
furnish 3000 militia to join the same. Every nerve must and
will be strained to prevent Philadelphia falling into the enemy's
hands. It is a place of infinite importance.

It is said there are favorable accounts lately received from
Doctor Franklin ; but we have no authentic advice of the kind,
nor does the report extend to any particulars.

JEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 573

Your sentiments of Major Edmonston's conduct correspond
with the General's ideas of it. He had given some directions to
General Schuyler on the subject. Besides other purposes it
might serve, the design of his going to Canada was evidently
that he might be a vehicle of instructions to General Carleton.
It would be the most convenient, certain, and expeditious mode
they could have fallen upon to convey them. I communicated
the paragraph of your letter respecting him to his Excellency.
He wishes the major might be sent on directly to Philadelphia.
I fancy he would be glad to be saved the trouble of an interview
with him.

I should be obliged to you to inform the convention, that it
is my opinion the General will not permit Mr. Leroy to go into
New- York. It is a determined point with him to grant no such
indulgence when any matter of the kind is referred to him,
unless the person applying can assign the most substantial rea-
sons for his request, and can also produce explicit credentials of
his political principles and conduct being favorable to the Amer-
ican cause. I conclude from my being instructed to require his
parole, that he cannot give satisfaction on these points. If, how-
ever, he should obtain permission, I will execute the resolve
transmitted to me. For the future, if the convention have cogent
reasons for allowing any subject of the State to go in to the enemy,
as they are the best judges of all the circumstances concerning
him, they had better send him in without referring the matter
particularly to the General.

I take the liberty to inclose a letter to the care of Mr. Jay ;
the delivery of which to him will be a favor conferred on,
Gentlemen,

Your most respectful servant,

A. Hamilton.

574 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 20.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS, LIVINGSTON, AND ALLISON, COMMITTEE
OF THE NEW-YORK CONVENTION.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, April 20th, 1777.

Gentlemen :

The disposition of the convention, with respect to the dis-
affected among you, is highly commendable, and justified by
every principle of equity and policy. The necessity of exem-
plary punishment throughout the States, is become evident be-
yond a doubt, and it were to be wished every one of the thirteen
would imitate the judicious conduct of New- York. Lenity and
forbearance have been tried too long to no purpose : it is high
time to discard what the clearest experience has shown to be in-
effectual.

But in dispensing punishment, the utmost care and caution
ought to be used. The power of doing it, or even of bringing
the guilty to trial, should be placed in hands that know well how
to use it. I believe it would be a prudent rule to meddle with
none but those whose crimes are supported by very sufficient
evidence, and are of a pretty deep die. The apprehending inno-
cent persons, or those whose offences are of so slender a nature
as to make it prudent to dismiss them, furnishes an occasion of
triumph, and a foundation for a species of animadversion which
is very injurious to the public cause. Persons so apprehended
generally return home worse than they were, and by expatiating
on their sufferings, first excite the pity towards themselves, and
afterwards the abhorrence towards their persecutors, of those
with whom they converse. I believe it would also be in general
a good rule, either to pardon offenders entirely, or to inflict capi-
tal and severe punishments. The advice given by a certain gen-
eral to his son, when the latter had the Roman army in his power,
was certainly very politic : he advised him either to destroy them
utterly, or to dismiss them with every mark of honor and respect.
By the first method, says he, you disable the Romans from being
your enemies ; by the last, you make them your friends. So with
respect to the tories ; I would either disable them from doing us

Mt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 5*75

any injury, or I would endeavor to gain their friendship by clem-
ency. Inflicting trifling punishments only embitters the minds
of those on whom they fall, and increases their disposition to do
mischief without taking away the power of doing it.

I shall communicate your additional resolve to the General,
and consult him on what you mention, and shall let you know
his opinion in my next : mine, however, is, that those who ap-
pear to be of such a character as to be susceptible of reformation,
should be employed ; but it is a delicate point.

As to news, the most material is, that from intelligence re-
ceived from Khode Island, it appears the enemy are abandoning
it. This is a preparatory step to the intended operations of the
enemy.

The other day we surprised a lieutenant's guard, took sixteen
prisoners, and killed three or four.

In a private letter from Philadelphia, I am informed that a
treaty of a very particular nature is on the point of being con-
cluded between the Court of France and the States of America.
There is a prospect of opening a trade with Sweden. I hear Mr.
Morris, of Philadelphia, has a vessel arrived from thence.
I am in haste,
Gentlemen,

Your most respectful servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO THE HONORABLE COMMITTEE OF CONVENTION FOR
THE STATE OF NEW- YORK.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, April 28th, 1777.

Gentlemen :

Extreme hurry of business puts it out of my power to say but
very little.

Your information concerning a piece of ordnance lately con-
structed at Philadelphia, is true. There is such a piece at head-

576 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 20.

quarters, weighs 227 pounds, carries a three-pound ball. The
iron is wrought, hooped and welded together. The General and
others esteem it a great acquisition. It has been fired twenty
times, as fast as possible, and is supposed to be thorough proof.
For my part, I am rather dubious of this matter, and have re-
commended fifty successive discharges instead of twenty. If she
would stand that, her sufficiency would be ascertained beyond a
doubt, and her value would be immense ; and as it is a new ex-
periment, we cannot take too much pains to be sure. If Mr.
Livingston can construct pieces of the same kind and weight
that will stand a similar proof, he will render the most essential
service to his country. "We cannot have too respectable an artil-
lery ; and he need not doubt they will be wanted.

As to ships opposite to Fort Washington, the General first
supposed they might be intended to make a descent on the Jer-
sey side, and come by surprise on our left flank ; but he now
considers it wholly as an amusement, while they were executing
their attempt on the stores at Danbury. Of this affair you are
probably as well advised as we are.

I thank you for your promise of sending me the model of
your government as soon as published. I have sanguine ex-
pectations concerning it.

Nothing new at head-quarters but the attempt against Dan-
bury. If the enemy do not * * * * *
till they get reinforced or receive further orders.

Troops coming on from the southward. We are told two
thousand Carolinians, far on their way to Philadelphia — a part
arrived.

I am, with great respect, gentlemen,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

* Not legible in the manuscript.

jEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 577

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, May 7th, 1777.

I thank you for the favor of the pamphlet containing your
form of government, which, without, flattery, I consider as far
more judicious and digested than any thing of the kind that
has yet appeared among us ; though I am not so unreserved
in my approbation as to think it free from defects. While I
view it in the main as a wise and excellent system, I freely con-
fess it appears to me to have some faults which I could wish did
not exist. Were it not too late to discuss particulars for any
useful end, or could my judgment have any weight in a matter,
which is the work of so many far more able and discerning than
I can pretend to be, I should willingly descend to an exhibition
of those parts I dislike, and my reasons for disapproving. But,
in the present situation of things, it would be both useless and
presumptuous.

I congratulate you on the late important arrivals to the east-
ward. We consider them as immense acquisitions. Did I not
suppose you must be possessed of the same particulars we have
at head-quarters, I would transmit those we have to you. I
congratulate you also on the Danbury expedition. The stores de-
stroyed there have been purchased at a pretty high price to the
enemy. The spirit of the people on the occasion does them
great honor — is a pleasing proof that they have lost nothing of
that primitive zeal with which they began the contest, and will
be a galling discouragement to the enemy from repeating at-
tempts of the kind. Such an opposition, under such circum-
stances, was not to be expected. By every account, both from
our friends and from themselves, they cannot have sustained a
loss of less than five hundred killed, wounded, and taken. An
honest, intelligent lad, a prisoner with them, who made his es-
cape two or three days ago, informs that he saw three vessels
loaded with wounded. He was permitted to look into the hold
of two of them, and affirms there could not be fewer than forty
in each. He attempted to inspect the contents of the third, but
f 37

578 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 20.

was hindered by the sentries. He also informs that there were
loud wailings and lamentations among the soldiers' women on
the occasion, and that the people of New-York considered the
affair in the light of a defeat to the British troops.

From some late appearances, my opinion is greatly shaken as
to the enemy's intention to» move against Philadelphia. I begin
to fear they will disappoint us with a contrary movement. The
General is aware of this possibility, and will do every thing he
can to provide for the event ; and I trust the convention of your
State will co-operate with him by every exertion in their power.
By intelligence received yesterday and to-day, from Generals
Putnam and Lincoln, at the outposts, we have reason to suspect
the enemy will soon evacuate Brunswick, and push for Amboy,
whence they will no doubt embark for some expedition by
water. This may be either to Philadelphia, or up the North
Paver. Or, perhaps, the appearances that indicate this, may be
only feints to perplex and deceive us. The testimony of every
person that comes from them confirms this fact, that their
horses are in such miserable condition as to render them incapa-
ble of any material operations by land. If, therefore, proper
care be taken, wherever they shall point their efforts, to prevent
their collecting supplies of good horses among ourselves, I know
not how it will be possible for them to penetrate any distance
into the country. As far as it may depend upon them, I hope
the convention will attend to this circumstance, and will take
effectual measures to put it out of their power to gain such sup-
plies in any part of your State towards which they may direct
their movements. Nothing particular from Europe. Doctor
Lee, indeed, writes, that from the face of affairs there, a war
cannot be postponed longer than three months. He thinks,
however, the English will be able to get a reinforcement this
year of 8 or 10,000 Germans. If I mistake not, he says they
have already engaged them, and sent transports to take them in.
I am, with great respect,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

Mt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 579

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, May 12th, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I have received the pleasure of your favor of yesterday's date.
The reasons you assign for the interval of silence on your part
are admitted as sufficient, though I regret that the principal one
exists — the combination of the tories for a general insurrec-
tion. But, perhaps, on the scale of policy, I ought rather to
congratulate you on the event. That there are too many tories
in your State, as well as in several others, is a fact too well
known. That they should confederate themselves for active
purposes of revolt and disaffection, when once discovered, is
desirable, because it arms the vindictive justice of the State, and
will justify, in the eyes of all the world, a radical blow at the
faction. Were it not that we have seen so many similar in-
stances, that only prove the temerity and folly of the tories, I
should consider this as a presumptive argument, that the enemy
intend your way.

It seems now fully the opinion of our generals, that the last
year's project for uniting the two armies, by the conquest of your
State, will be prosecuted this champaign. To confirm this sup-
position, all the later intelligence we have received from the
enemy strongly indicates an intention to evacuate the Jerseys ;
and 'tis thought there will be very great obstacles to an attempt
upon Philadelphia, by way of the Delaware ; 'tis concluded that
the North Eiver must be the object. And, upon this principle,
Generals Greene and Knox, in whom his excellency has great
confidence, are sent to examine the situation of things with you,
and, in concert with General McDougal, who is in equal estima-
tion, to adopt every proper expedient for putting you in the best
state of defence. They set out this day.

If the enemy do not, in fact, aim at Philadelphia, they have
been very artful in throwing out appearances well calculated to
deceive ; and which, though .they have not had so full an effect
as at any time to cause our cautious General to lose sight of the

580 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 20.

other object which 'tis now imagined they propose to themselves,
yet they have so far deceived as to beget pretty universally the
opinion they wished to impose. But, for my own part, though
I am staggered in my conjectures, yet I by no means give up
my first supposition. I think it very probable they are only
evacuating the Jerseys to be out of danger of an attack from us,
which they have reason to fear from the increasing strength of
our army, and mean to encamp on Staten Island till reinforced.
It would be madness in them, weak as they are in numbers, to
risk all in any capital attempt, and I am confident they will not
do it unless they have a desperate game to play, and have no
expectation of reinforcements. Such a conduct would be con-
trary to every principle of war or policy. Howe cannot take
the field with more than eight thousand men ; let him go where
he will, the probability of a defeat will be strong, and the conse-
quences of it would be absolutely fatal. How can he hope to
penetrate far with so small a force, and with such a miserable
supply of horses to convey his artillery and baggage ? It seems
to me, too, with respect to the supposed design upon your State,
if it really existed, they would have taken care to have seized
your forts, and other important posts, when they might have
been apprised you were in no condition to defend them.

We have lately had one or two little skirmishes here. A
party from Bound-brook beat up some of the enemies' advanced
pickets from Brunswick. An attack was made upon their pick-
ets near Bonum-town. "We have no regular account of this mat-
ter ; but what we have had is to this purport : " That a party un-
der Col. Cook attacked one of their pickets and drove it in ;
that it was reinforced and sallied out again, and was beaten in a
second time ; that it received a second reinforcement and made
a second sally; and that Gen. Maxwell, who conducted the af-
fair, perceiving the matter growing too serious by continual suc-
cors coming to them from Brunswick and' Amboy, thought it
best to retire, which he did in good order — the enemy keeping
at a respectful distance during the whole time of their retrogra-
dation." 'Tis said we have lost between 20 and 30 killed
and wounded, and a few stragglers taken ; and 'tis also asserted

jEt.20.] correspondence. 581

that some of our officers counted nineteen dead bodies of the
enemy on the field. The royal Highlanders had taken possession
of a wood, by way of ambuscade, out of which they were expelled
by our troops. Here, I believe, the principal loss was sustained
on both sides.

I am with great regard, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. — I thank you for the inclosures of every kind. I be-
lieve you have not received a letter I wrote a few days ago,
giving my idea of your Constitution, with which, on a second
inspection, I am better pleased than at first. You will oblige me
by forwarding the inclosed.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, May 19th, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I this moment received the favor of your letter of the 16th
instant.

I partly agree and partly disagree with you respecting the
deficiencies of your Constitution. That there is a want of vigor
in the executive, I believe, will be found true. To determine
the qualifications proper for the chief executive magistrate re-
quires the deliberate wisdom of a select assembly, and cannot be
safely lodged with the people at large. That instability is in-
herent in the nature of popular governments I think very dispu-
table; unstable democracy, is an epithet frequently in the mouths
of politicians ; but I believe that from a strict examination of the
matter — from the records of history, it will be found that the
fluctuations of governments in which the popular principle has
borne a considerable sway, have proceeded from its being com-
pounded with other principles; — and from its being made to

582 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 20.

operate in an improper channel. Compound governments, though,
they may be harmonious in the beginning, will introduce distinct
interests, and these interests will clash, throw the State into con-
vulsions, and produce a change or dissolution. When the de-
liberative or judicial powers are vested wholly or partly in the
collective body of the people, you must expect error, con-
fusion, and instability. But a representative democracy, where
the right of election is well secured and regulated, and the exer-
cise of the legislative, executive, and judiciary authorities, is
vested in select persons, chosen really and not nominally by the
people, will, in my opinion, be most likely to be happy, regular,
and durable. That the complexity of your legislature will oc-
casion delay and dilatoriness, is evident, and I fear may be at-
tended with a much greater evil ; — as expedition is not \erj ma-
terial in making laws, especially when the government is well di-
gested and matured by time. The evil I mean is, that in time
your Senate, from the very name, and from the mere circum-
stance of its being a separate member of the legislature, will be
liable to degenerate into a body purely aristocratical.

And I think the danger of an abuse of power from a simple
legislature, would not be very great in a government where the
equality and fulness of popular representation is so wisely pro-
vided for as in yours. On the whole, though I think there are
the defects intimated, I think your government far the best that
we have yet seen, and capable of giving long and substantial
happiness to the people. Objections to it should be suggested
with great caution and reserve.

Nothing particular in the military line. The enemy still in
the Jerseys, though they have been some time sending away their
stores, baggage, &c, and are raising new works of defence. All
this may be preparatory to an evacuation at all events, and they
may be only intended to pave the way for a retreat, in case of an
attack or any accident.

Advices from the West Indies, that have an appearance of
authenticity, mention a French vessel bound for the Continent,
being taken by the British frigate Perseus, and carried into
^Dominique ; and a remonstrance being made by the Governor of

jEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 583

Martinique, threatening reprisals in case of a detention. Nay,
some accounts say he has actually seized all the English vessels
in the harbor of Martinique, and imprisoned their seamen till
restitution shall be made. If these accounts be true, they are
important, and may be considered as an earnest of more general
hostility.

Perhaps your next favor will find me at Bound-brook. Head-
quarters will soon be moved there. Our family seem desirous
of cultivating a closer acquaintance with the enemy than we have
had the pleasure of for some time past.
With real regard, I am, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

Relying on your punctuality in favoring me with any impor-
tant intelligence your way, I am likely to lose a beaver hat,
which was staked against the truth of the report of the stores at
St. John's being destroyed. If you forget me in future, I will
certainly excommunicate you.

HAMILTON TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS.

Middle Brook Camp, June 2, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I received your favor per express, and as the absence of my
former respectable correspondents has made a change necessary,
I am happy that you have been substituted in their room.

Except a body of militia at and about Pumpton, and a few
detachments of observation, our whole army is now collected at
two points ; the main body here, and a division under General
Sullivan at Princeton. Though this alteration of circumstances
takes off in a great measure the restraints imposed upon the
enemy during the winter, gives them a more ample field to range
in, and exposes the country more to their ravages, yet the measure

584 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

is abundantly justified by every wise military maxim. The rigor
of the season has been heretofore our chief security against those
advantages which might have been taken of our dispersed state ;
and this dispersion was necessary both for the conveniency of
winter quarters, and with a view to confine and distress the
enemy, which was the most capital object we could then propose
to ourselves. It was also necessary by this method to second the
check to that torrent of influence which their successes in the
Jerseys had given them. Many other justifying reasons might
be assigned, which I doubt not you will easily conceive, and
which it would be indiscreet to commit to paper.

But now that a more active season is arrived, and something
of importance must be done on one side or the other, it becomes
our business to put ourselves in the best posture both for defence
and offence. Common sense dictates that the best way to effect
this is to collect our strength. In a collected state we can best
repel a general attack ; we can best make one, if circumstances
warrant it ; and we can move with greater expedition to discon-
cert any sudden push not immediately upon us, which the enemy
are likely to make. It is needless to enlarge on a subject which
your own judgment will enable you of itself to view in a just
light.

As to the designs of the enemy, appearances are so intricate,
fluctuating, and seemingly inconsistent, that it is difficult to form
any certain conclusion from them. Either they do not under-
stand themselves, and are very irresolute and fickle, or they very
artfully manage matters to deceive us. I am rather inclined to
suppose the former. This, however, I may say with tolerable
certainty, that my ideas of their intending to operate to the South-
ward, derive just support from such parts of their conduct lately
as are most intelligible. We have a variety of concurring intel-
ligence that they have lately drawn more troops into the Jerseys
— that they have brought over a large number of wagons, and all
the boats prepared for bridges, with several other particulars of
less importance, all which denote a preparation to operate this
way. Persons who have been among them assert confidently
that they mean to attack us. But we are divided in sentiment

Mt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 585

as to the probability of that, or of their making a forced march to
Philadelphia. If they act wisely, they will neither attack us in our
present situation, strongly posted as we are, nor will they attempt
to cross a river, where they may certainly expect opposition in
front, and leaving at the same time a formidable army in the rear.
He should endeavor to draw us off from here and fight us
upon more equal ground. But after all, if he expects any timely
reinforcements, upon what rational principle can he risk his own
reputation and all the hopes of his cause, in an attempt with his
present force, so extremely important and hazardous ? Perhaps
he only means to get every thing in readiness against the arrival
of the reinforcements looked for, that he may immediately com-
mence his operations. Things, however, will hardly bear this
construction. We are told that in seventeen sail lately arrived
from Europe, there were about 2000 raw recruits.

This from deserters.

The enemy yesterday perpetrated a most barbarous butchery
upon a Lieutenant Martin of ours. He was out with a scouting
party, and met some of the British light-horse ; his men, it is said,
quitted him. But however other matters may be, 'tis certain his
dead body was found most horribly mangled. He had not a
single bullet wound, but was hacked to pieces with the sword ;
he had several cuts in his head, each of which was sufficient to
dispatch him, besides a number of more inconsiderable scars
about his body and hands. It is evident that the most wanton
and unnecessary cruelty must have been used towards him ; for
the greater part of his wounds must have been given him when
utterly out of a condition to resist.

This may be relied on as a fact, for I saw his corpse, as
did also every officer and soldier in camp that chose it. The Gen-
eral sent him down to their lines with a letter to Lord Cornwallis, as
an undeniable evidence of their brutality ; but the letter was taken
from the flag and sent in ; the flag and the body not permitted
to pass their outposts.

I am, sir,
With real respect and esteem,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

586 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 20.

HAMILTON TO KOBERT R. LIVINGSTON.

Head-Quarters, Camp at Middle Brook, June 28, 1777.

Dear Sir:

Yours of the 25th came to hand last night. Since my last ad-
dressed to Mr. Morris, the enemy have been trying a second ex-
periment to tempt us to an engagement, on equal terms of
ground. Under the supposition of their intending to evacuate
the Jerseys immediately, in order to keep up the idea of a pur-
suit, and to be in a posture to take advantage of any critical
movement that might present itself, to give them a blow; the
chief part of our army, after their retreat from Brunswick, was
marched down to Quibbletown, and parties detached thence
further towards the enemy. Finding this disposition take place,
and expecting that, elated by what has passed, we might be wil-
ling to venture upon a general engagement, which is Howe's
only hope, he came out with his whole army from Amboy, only
on Thursday morning, and made a forced march towards our
left, with design, if possible, to cut off some of our detachments,
particularly one under Lord Stirling ; and probably, if we were
not expeditious in regaining the heights, to get there before us,
by rapidly entering the passes on our left. Lord Stirling's
party was near being surrounded ; but after a smart skirmish
with the enemy's main body, made their retreat good to West-
field, and ascended the pass of the mountains back of the Scotch
plains. The other parties, after skirmishing on their flanks,
came off to join the main body, and take possession of the
heights. The enemy continued their march towards our left as
far as Westfield, and there halted. In the mean time, it was
judged prudent to return with the army to the mountains, lest it
should be their intention to get into them, and force us to fight
them on their own terms. They remained at Westfield till the
next day, and perceiving their views disappointed, have again
returned to Amboy, plundering and burning as usual. We had
parties hanging about them on their return ; but they were so
much on their guard, no favorable opportunity could be found

Mi. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 587

of giving them any material annoyance. Their loss we cannot
ascertain; and our own, in men, is inconsiderable, though we
have as yet received no returns of the missing. I have no doubt
they have lost more men than we ; but unfortunately, I won't
say from what cause, they got three field-pieces from us, which
will give them room for vaporing, and embellish their excursion,
in the eyes of those who make every trifle a matter of import-
ance. It is not unlikely they will soon be out of the Jerseys ;
but where they will go to next is mere matter of conjecture, for,
as you observe, their conduct is so eccentric, as to leave no cer-
tain grounds on which to form a judgment of their intentions.

I know the comments that some people will make on our
Fabian conduct. It will be imputed either to cowardice, or to
weakness. But the more discerning, I trust, will not find it
difficult to conceive, that it proceeds from the truest policy, and
is an argument neither of the one nor the "other.

The liberties of America are an infinite stake. TVe should
not play a desperate game for it, or put it upon the issue of a
single cast of the die. The loss of one general engagement may
effectually ruin us, and it would certainly be folly to hazard it,
unless our resources for keeping up an army were at an end,
and some decisive blow was absolutely necessary ; or unless our
strength was so great as to give certainty of success. Neither is
the case — America can in all probability maintain its army for
years, and our numbers, though such as would give a reasonable
hope of success, are not such as should make us entirely san-
guine. A third consideration, did it exist, might make it expe-
dient to risk such an event — the prospect of very great reinforce-
ments to the enemy ; but every appearance contradicts this, and
affords all reason to believe they will get very inconsiderable ac-
cessions of strength this campaign. All the European maritime
powers are interested for the defeat of the British arms in Ame-
rica, and will never assist them. A small part of Germany is
disposed to make a market of its troops, and even this seems not
over fond of being drained any further. Many springs may be
put in motion even to put a stop to this. The king of Prussia
may, perhaps, without much difficulty, be engaged to espouse

588 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 20.

views unfriendly to the court of Britain, and a nod of his would
be sufficient to prevent all future German succors. He, as well
as most other powers of Europe, feels the necessity of commerce
and a large maritime force to be generally respectable. His
situation, till lately, has been unfavorable to this; but the re-
duction of Poland, and the acquisition of Dantzig in the Baltic,
have put it very much in his power to pursue commercial
schemes ; and may tempt him to be propitious to American in-
dependence. Russian assistance is still infinitely more precari-
ous ; for besides that it cannot be the true interest of that ambi-
tious empire to put its troops to sale, it is at present embroiled
with the Turks, and will want all its men to employ in its own
wars. England herself, from the nature of her policy, can fur-
nish few soldiers, and even those few can ill be spared, to come
to America in the present hostile appearance of affairs in Europe.
On whatever side it is considered, no great reinforcements are
to be expected to the British army in America. It is therefore
Howe's business to make the most of his present strength ; and
as he is not numerous enough to conquer and garrison as he
goes, his only hope lies in fighting us, and giving a general de-
feat at one blow.

On our part, we are continually strengthening our political
springs in Europe, and may every day look for more effectual
aids than we have yet received. Our own army is continually
growing stronger in men, arms, and discipline ; we shall soon
have an important addition of artillery, now on its way to join
us. We can maintain our present numbers good, at least, by en-
listments, while the enemy must dwindle away ; and at the end
of the summer the disparity between us will be infinitely great,
and facilitate any exertions that may be made to settle the busi-
ness with them. Their affairs will be growing worse, ours bet-
ter ; so that delay will ruin them. It will serve to perplex and
fret them, and precipitate them into measures that we can turn
to good account. Our business then is to avoid a general engage-
ment, and waste the enemy away by constantly goading their
sides in a desultory, teasing way.

In the mean time it is painful to leave a part of the inhabi-

Mi. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 589

tants a prey to their depredations ; and it is wounding to the
feelings of a soldier, to see an enemy parading before him and
daring him to fight which he is obliged to decline.

But a part must be sacrificed to the whole, and passion must
give way to reason. You will be sensible that it will not be
advisable to publish the seritiments contained in this letter as
coming from me ; because this will make the enemy more fully ac-
quainted with our views ; but it might not be amiss to have them
circulated, as those which ought to govern the conduct of the
army, in order to prepare the minds of the people for what may
happen, and take off the disagreeable impressions our caution
may make. I am, dear sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.
Head-Quarters, Coryel's Ferry, July 29th, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I have the pleasure of your favor of the 25th. I cannot be
induced to think the enemy are so numerous as you apprehend,
and would place no dependence on what is said either by desert-
ers or prisoners, further than as it respects their. own company,
nor even that with regard to prisoners in general, who commonly
have their cue, as the phrase is, and know very well how to man-
ufacture stories calculated to serve the purposes of the side they
belong to. If we may judge at all from the state of the British
and foreign regiments in Howe's army, or the proportion of re-
cruits they have had this year, we cannot but believe the repre-
resentations you mention greatly exaggerated. Though the
northern army have not suffered much by action, they have
probably suffered 'more by sickness than the southern ; for many
accounts agree that they have been very sickly, and particularly,
that there was a great mortality among them while lying at the

590 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 20.

Isle of Noix. From the estimate of the first prisoner, they must
have been greatly reduced by some means or other ; for it appears
that before his company had been augmented by the twenty-four
foreigners, it was only twenty-six strong; and it is very impro-
bable it should have had so large an augmentation, for I am mor-
ally certain the regiments under Howe have not had fifty men
each as recruits, and I see no reason to suppose Burgoyne's could
have had so much better luck. Eight companies, at twenty-six
men each, amount to two hundred and eight. Suppose each regi-
ment to have received one hundred recruits, which, by every
rule of comparison, must be more than the truth ; this brings a
regiment to about three hundred men. Ten regiments, at three
hundred each, amount to three thousand, the number of British
troops in Canada. Again, if I am not mistaken, four thousand
was the allotment of foreign troops for the northern department.
As the sickness spoken of fell chiefly upon them, they, in all
probability, lost more in that way than they have gained in re-
cruits. But, even if this were not the case, they cannot exceed
the original number — four thousand added to three thousand
make seven thousand. Besides these, there are the grenadiers
and light-infantry. Of these there cannot be above eighteen
companies each, which, allowing them to contain every one fifty
men, amount to eighteen hundred — and this brings them to about
eight thousand eight hundred men in their whole force of Brit-
ish and foreign troops. Of these, at least one-sixth must be unfit
for duty, by every calculation, which reduces the number of men
fit for the field to about seven thousand five hundred. Part of
these must be left in Canada, if it were for no other purpose than
to guard their magazines, and for other duty of that kind. Nor
could they with safety commit the charge of those things to the
Canadians, many of whom are notoriously disaffected, and would
be very likely to destroy instead of preserve them. From this
view, which I verily believe is too favorable to them, they can-
not bring more than between six and seven thousand British and
foreign troops to act out of Canada. Out of' these six or seven
thousand, a considerable part must be left to garrison Ticonde-
roga, and secure their rear in case of accidents ; for they could

Mt.20.] correspondence. 591

not without madness attempt to advance, and leave the posts be-
hind them in a defenceless state; and they may be obliged to in-
crease their attention to this matter by keeping a body of men
somewhere about the Grants, which has been recommended.
When this last deduction is made, Burgoyne cannot advance
with more than between five and six thousand men, to suppose
him to act with his whole collective force ; except Canadians and
Indians, who are not, by any accounts, numerous.

Let us now take a view of our own force. When Glover's
brigade gets up, and the recruits for the regiments there, now on
their march, arrive, General Schuyler will have about five thou-
sand continental troops. Surely the eastern States cannot sleep
so soundly, when the danger is so imminent, but that they will
reinforce him with eight or ten thousand militia. If this hap-
pens, and he cannot stop General Burgoyne's progress, it must
proceed from other causes than the want of men. With about
the same army last year, General Washington kept Howe with
sixteen or seventeen thousand men at bay.

Perhaps it may be said, there will not be time to collect this
force, as the enemy are advancing with very great rapidity. I
am much mistaken if there will not be abundant time. The na-
ture of the ground ; the difficulty of transporting the immense
quantity of baggage, provisions, &c, necessary to accompanj^ an
army of five thousand men penetrating an enemy's country ; the
want of wagons for the purpose; the impediments thrown in
their way by cutting up the roads — all these obstacles will retard
their march much more than is at first sight imagined, and will
give full time to prepare them a good reception.

On the whole I am clearly of opinion, that unless Howe co-
operates with Burgoyne against your State, it has very little to
fear; and I even doubt, if he goes to the southward, whether
Burgoyne will attempt to penetrate far. At present there is
every appearance of a southern expedition. Seventy sail of the
enemy's fleet have been seen passing by Little Egg Harbor,
making short tacks towards the capes of Philadelphia. Three
divisions of the army are arrived here and at Howel's Ferry, four
miles up. One is coming on by way of Princeton, &c. Another

592 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 20.

coming after us by way of Morristown. I wish this last to halt
there. Two brigades more have been ordered to cross the North
River and wait further orders. We shall not, however, pass the
Delaware till we hear of the arrival of the enemy in the Capes
of Philadelphia. Nor will those two brigades be ordered on till
the same event takes place. We shall act the most cautious part
possible in our circumstances. I communicated your letter to
the General. He agrees with me in point of the enemy's num-
bers. With respect to animating the eastern States, he has
written the most urgent letter to their several assemblies, which
I am in hopes will answer the end you propose from sending per-
sons to each of them.

It were to be wished your forts and ships were well supplied
with cannon ; but it is wholly out of the General's line to strip
the ships to the eastward of their cannon for that purpose. If
your Convention were to make application to the Congress or
Board of War, it might succeed ; but I should have very little
hope of it.

I am, with great esteem, dear Sir,
Your most obedient,

Alexander Hamilton.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Head-Quarters, Morristown, July 6, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I received your favor of the 4th, by express. If I recollect
how far my last went, it did not announce the return of the
enemy from Westfield to Amboy, nor their evacuation of that
place since. After resting and refreshing themselves a night,
they decamped the following day, and proceeded to Amboy, from
which place they went to Staten Island as expeditiously as they
could ; where they still remain.

The news from the northward wore so serious a face, that our
generals thought the enemy were about to operate in earnest

JEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 593

against our posts in that quarter ; and, as supposing this the
case, General Howe might certainly be expected to co-operate by
way of the North Eiver, it was -judged necessary to move the
main body of the army from Middle Brook to Morristown ; to
advance a division under General Sullivan to Pumpton, and
another under General Parsons as far as Peekskill. A brigade
at that port, under General Nixon, was ordered, so soon as Par-
sons's division arrived near its destination, to proceed imme-
diately as a reinforcement to the northern army. This disposition
is deemed advantageous to prevent the success of a coup de main
on the Highland passes, and not inconsistent with a proper at-
tention to Philadelphia, should the northern alarm prove nothing
more than a diversion, and Howe return to the charge that way.

I am loath to risk a conjecture about Mr. Howe. He is such
an unintelligible gentleman, that no rule of interpretation can
possibly be found out by which to unravel his designs. If he
acted like a man of sense, he would wait quietly on Staten Island,
and there concentrate all his forces. He would draw round him all
the men that could be spared from Canada, and all that are now
at Rhode Island. With these, and the reinforcements he may
receive from Europe, he would make a point of forcing us, by
some means or other, to an action. In this his only hope lies.
If he could defeat our arnry, and improve the moment of success,
he would go very near effecting his purpose ; but, let him go to the
northward or to the southward, every new post he takes weakens
his main body, and makes it the more liable to be ruined by our
collective strength. Any object short of our army is a bad one ;
and that plan is the worst, where, by a division of his forces, he
runs the hazard, in case of an accident either way, of having his
whole scheme overturned.

We have different accounts of the present situation of his
army. Some tell us that the whole is now encamped on Staten
Island ; others, that the greater part of the Hessians are on board
the ships. By some sailors who came from them yesterday, we
are told that the ships are taking in water and provisions for two
months, and that conveniences for transporting horses are fitting up
in them. All this is rather vague, and may or may not be true.
F 38

594 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M-r. 20.

Their flourishes in the Jerseys, I believe, cannot have cost
them less than six or seven hundred men. We have not lost
above a hundred. This is the* best way to ruin them without
risking any thing.

Our present situation is embarrassing. Their ships give them
a vast advantage, and we shall probably be much puzzled when
they begin their operations again. We shall, however, act cau-
tiously, and do the best we can. We are anxiously waiting for
northern intelligence.

I am, dear sir, with great regard,

Yours, &c,

A. Hamilton.

»

Please forward the inclosed to General Schuyler per first
opportunity.

HAMILTON TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON.

Head-Quarters, Camp at Cross Roads, Aug. 18, 1777.

My Dear Sir:

I most sincerely and heartily sympathize with you in the dis-
tress and dangers under which your State is laboring at this crit-
ical period. I lament its misfortunes, as they are wounds to the
common cause, as they more nearly interest those for whom I
feel the warmest regard, and as they are suffered by a State which
I consider in a great measure as my political parent. I wish any
thing in my power could contribute to its relief.

I am fully sensible, with you, that Mr. Burgoyne's successes
involve the most important consequences to America, and that a
further progress in your State may bring on all the evils you de-
lineate, and most deeply affect the common cause. I agree with
you, that the loss of your State will be a more afflicting blow to
America than any that could be struck by Mr. Howe to the
southward ; and I can assure you it is regarded in the same light

jEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 596

by others, whose thoughts of the matter are of much more con-
sequence than my own. I may also add, that His Excellency
has afforded the northern army all the assistance he could, in his
circumstances, give, with the least degree of propriety ; and
were you as well acquainted with those circumstances as I am,
you would be perfectly convinced of the truth of what I assert.

Though I have differed, and still differ, and, I believe, on the
most substantial grounds, with you, as to the numbers of the
enemy, yet I clearly perceive, from the spirit reigning in our
army, and from the unpardonable backwardness of your eastern
neighbors, that you have every thing to fear, notwithstanding
your most strenuous exertions, which, to the honor of your State,
are justly admired, as far surpassing what might naturally be ex-
pected from you under so many discouragements. I am so tho-
roughly impressed with your true situation, that I am fully of
opinion, if Burgoyne is not speedily checked in his career, he
will become the first object to this army, especially if Howe
operates so far to the southward as every appearance seems to in-
dicate. Charlestovvn is now thought to be the place of his desti-
nation. He has been seen passing by Sinnipuxint, steering
southward, twelve days ago ; and, as he has not been since heard
of, 'tis concluded he must be bound pretty far in that course,
and no object short of Charlestown is supposed at all worthy his
attention. However common sense is against Mr. Howe's going
so far to the southward, facts are so strongly in favor of it, that
we must give credit to them. It is an inadmissible supposition,
that he can be keeping a large fleet so long at sea merely as a
feint, or that he would steer so far out of his way, if he really in-
tended to operate to the northward ; the more, as the season is at
hand when he would be liable to heavy gusts on the southern
shores, and contrary winds on his return.

If he goes so far southward, we cannot think of following him
with this army ; and if Burgoyne continues to penetrate, we must
find means to stop him. This will point out the propriety of
uniting this with the northern army, and falling upon him with
their joint force ; and perhaps nothing is more to be wished than
that affairs should run into this train.

596 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 20.

Before this reaches you, you will be informed that two regi-
ments have gone from Peekskill to reinforce the northern army,
and that Morgan's corps of riflemen are on their march for the
same purpose. They left Trenton yesterday morning, and as
they march light, and vessels are ordered to be ready waiting for
them at Peekskill, they will soon be at the place of their desti-
nation. It has been my wish and endeavor for some time past,
that this corps might be sent to your assistance. I expect much
from them; they are a picked corps, well used to rifles and
to wood-fights, commanded by officers of distinguished bravery,
and have been very serviceable in frequent skirmishes with the
enemy. I dare say these people will soon chastise the forward-
ness of the Indians, and I should not be surprised if, after a little
time, they make them desert their British friends. Their known
inconstancy and want of perseverance, give great reason to hope
a few drubbings will exceedingly discourage them, and send the
greatest part of them home. From every account, I am led to
believe our misfortunes are greatly owing to a panic dread of
the Indians. If this be so, the presence of Morgan's corps will
not fail to have the most happy effect. It would be well to pro-
pagate through the country and army, such ideas of this corps as
will tend to revive the spirits of both inhabitants and soldiers.
If their number, which is about five hundred, it

would do no harm. But of ail things, my dear sir, let every
topic be carefully avoided, that may tend to breed jealousies be-
tween this corps and the northern troops ; such jealousies have
been, are, and will be more detrimental to our affairs than any
thing besides.

I communicated your letter to his Excellency.
I am, with real regard and esteem, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton.

P. S. Your express not calling on his return, was the sole
reason of your not receiving a letter from me ; I had written one
to go by him.

His Excellency desires his particular respects to you, and as-

JEt. 20.] CORRESPONDENCE. 597

sures you that nothing in his power will be left undone for your
assistance.

HAMILTON TO MORRIS.

Head-Quarters, Wilmington, September 1st, 1777.

Dear Sir :

Agreeable to the intention of the council, I have delivered
their inclosed letter to his Excellency, who, after perusing it,
has sealed and forwarded it to Mr. Hancock.

The relieving Fort Schuyler is a very happy and important
event, and will concur with the two happy strokes given by
Herkemer and Starke, to reverse the face of affairs, and turn the
scale against Mr. Burgoyne. I hope Captain Montgomery's sug-
gestions may be right as to his being obliged to advance ; but I
fancy, if he once thinks it unsafe, he will not be bound by such
an empty punctilio as to risk the destruction of his army. As
General Howe is now fairly sat down to the southward, the
eastern States, no longer under any apprehensions from him, will
be disposed, I am in hopes, to exert their whole force ; and if
they do, I shall wonder at it if Mr. Burgoyne advances with
impunity.

Before this reaches you, you will have heard of General
Howe's coming into Chesapeake bay, where he has landed his
whole army, within about four miles from the head of Elk ; a
day or two after his landing, he marched from his first position
and extended his van as far as Green Hills. He still lies there
in a state of inactivity, in a great measure, I believe, from the
want of horses to transport his baggage and stores. It seems he
sailed with only about three weeks' provender, and was six at sea ;
this has occasioned the death of a great many of his horses, and
has made skeletons of the rest. He will be obliged to collect a
supply from the neighboring country before he can move, unless
he should be disposed to make a more hazardous movement

598 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

than he would ever be able to justify, unless by a degree of suc-
cess he has no right to expect.

The main body of our army is encamped on the heights of
Wilmington, so as to cover the town. We have strong parties
of light troops and militia advanced towards the enemy, who
have frequent skirmishes with them of little consequence, and
often pick up a few prisoners. We have taken at least seventy
since they landed, and have had thirty deserters. This country
does not abound in good posts. It is intersected by such an
infinity of roads, and is so little mountainous, that it is impossi-
ble to find a spot not liable to capital defects. The one we now
have is, all things considered, the best we could find ; but there
is no great dependence to be put upon it. The enemy will have
Philadelphia if they dare make a bold push for it, unless we
fight them a pretty general action. I opine we ought to do it,
and that we shall beat them soundly if we do. The militia
seem pretty generally stirring. Our army is in high health and
spirits. We shall, I hope, have twice the enemy's numbers. I
would not only fight them, but I would attack them ; for I hold
it an established maxim, that there is three to one in favor of
the party attacking.

I am in haste, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

A. Hamilton".

JEFFERSON TO HAMILTON.*

December 23d, 1791.
Thomas Jefferson presents his respectful compliments to the
Secretary of the Treasury, and incloses him the copy of a letter
and table which he has addressed to the President of the United
States, and which, being on a subject whereon the Secretary of
the Treasury and Thomas Jefferson differed in opinion, he thinks
it his duty to communicate to him.

* This letter was omitted by mistake in its order among the Cabinet papers.

Mt. 34.] CORRESPONDENCE. 599

jefferson to washington.

Sir:

As the conditions of our commerce with the French and British dominions are
important, and a moment seems to be approaching when it may be useful that
both should be accurately understood, I have thrown a representation of them
into the form of a table, showing at one view how the principal articles interesting
to our agriculture and navigation stand in the European and American dominions
of these two powers. As to so much of it as respects France, I have cited under
every article the law on which it depends, which laws, from 1784 downwards, are
in my possession.

Port charges are so different according to the size of the vessel, and the dex-
terity of the captain, that an examination of a greater number of port-bills might
perhaps produce a different result. I can only say that that e xpressed in the
table is fairly drawn from such bills as I could readily get access to, and that I
have no reason to suppose it varies much from the truth, nor on which side the
variation would lie. Still I cannot make myself responsible for this article. The
authorities cited will vouch the rest.

I have the honor to be, with the most perfect respect and attachment,

Sir,
Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Thomas Jefferson.

The President of the United States.

[For table, see Jefferson's Works, v, 3. p. 143.]

[Mt. 32.

LETTEES OP H. G.

LETTER I.

New-York, February 20th, 1789.

Dear Sir :

Your letter of the 18th instant has duly come to hand, and
entitles you to my particular thanks. In return I shall endeavor
fully to comply with your request, and furnish you, in a series of
letters, with all the material in my power to enable you to judge
what conduct it will be proper for you to pursue in relation to
the ensuing election for Governpr. Your influence is considera-
ble, and you do well to examine before you resolve on what side
to bestow it.

The present Governor was bred to the law under William
Smith, Esquire, formerly of this city. Some time before the late
revolution he resided in Ulster county, and there followed his
profession with reputation, though not with distinction. He was
not supposed to possess considerable talents, but, upon the whole,
stood fair on the score of probity. It must, however, be con-
fessed, he very early got the character with many of being a very
artful man, and it is not to be wondered at, if that impression, on
the minds in which it prevailed, deducted something from the
opinion of his integrity. But it would be refining too much to
admit such a consequence to be a just one. There certainly are
characters (though they may be rare) which unite a great degree
of address, and even a large portion of what is best expressed by

jEt. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 601

the word cunning, with a pretty exact adherence in the main to
the principles of integrity.

Mr. Clinton, from his youth upwards, has been remarkable
for a quality which, when accompanied by a sound and enlarged
understanding, a liberal mind, and a good heart, is denominated
firmness, and answers the most valuable purposes; but which,
when joined with narrow views, a prejudiced and contracted dis-
position, a passionate and interested temper, passes under the
name of obstinacy, and is the source of the greatest mischiefs,
especially in exalted public stations.

This gentleman, immediately preceding the contest with
Great Britain, was several times returned a member of Assembly
for the county in which he lived, and being of a warm, zeal-
ous, and resolute temper, became in a great measure the head of
one of the parties which then prevailed in the legislature. The
merit or demerit of these parties is not now worthy of discus- .
sion — nor can they, or the principles upon which they recipro-
cally moved, be too soon or too entirely buried in oblivion.

In the beginning of 1775 the contest with Great Britain had
become serious ; and we all remember the interesting question
then agitated in our Assembly, respecting the co-operation of
this State in the general measures of America. Here Mr. Clin-
ton and Mr. Philip Schuyler* were the leaders of the minority,
who advocated the propriety of that co-operation ; and both
these gentlemen, for their conduct upon the occasion, will always
be entitled to credit from the friends of the revolution. To com-
pare the degree of merit to which they may respectively lay
claim would be an invidious task. But as the partisans of Gov-
ernor Clinton have taken pains to propagate an opinion of supe-
rior merit in him, in regard to this transaction, it is but justice
to the other gentleman to observe, that he was equally open and
decided in the part he took in that question ; that as none
will pretend to ascribe to Mr. Clinton greater abilities than to
Mr. Schuyler, the exertions of the latter must have been at
least as useful as those of the former ; and that Mr. Schuyler
has in his favor the additional circumstance of having risked

* Then called Colonel Schuyler, and since General Schu}-ler.

602 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 32.

a large' property, which Mr. Clinton had not to risk, upon the
event of this revolution.

With sincere esteem,

I remain, dear sir,

Your obedient servant,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER II.

New-York, February 21st, 1789.

Sir:

Shortly after the breaking out of the war with Great Britain,
Mr. Clinton received an appointment as Brigadier-General, in
which capacity he served until he was elected Governor of this
State, some time in the early part of the year 1777.

In both these situations, from the condition of the State, which,
during the greater part of the war, was its principal theatre, Mr.
Clinton was frequently engaged in military duties. There is,
however, no part of his character which has been more misrepre-
sented than the military part of it. His panegyrists describe
him to us as the "war-worn veteran" — the complete soldier — the
consummate general. One would imagine from their stories of
him that he had often, in the language of sergeant Kite, " break-
fasted upon ravelins, and picked his teeth with palisadoes" — that
he was the first of American generals — a Marius in courage — a
Caesar in skill — inferior in nothing to a Turenneor aMonticuculli,
an Eugene or a Marlborough. But trust me, my dear sir, this is
mere rant and romance. That Mr. Clinton is a man of courage,
there is no reason to doubt. That he was upon most occasions
active and vigorous, cannot be justly disputed. In his capacity
of Governor he was ever ready to promote the common cause,
prompt in affording the aid of the militia when requisite ; and
scrupling not, when he thought his presence might be of use, to

JEt. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 603

put himself at the head of them. But here his praise as a soldier
ends. Beyond this he has no pretension to the wreath of milita-
ry renown. No man can tell when or where he gave proofs of
generalship, either in council or in the field. After diligent
inquiry, I have not been able to learn that he was ever more
than once in actual combat. This was at Fort Montgomery,
where he commanded in person ; and which, after a feeble and
unskilful defence, was carried by storm. That post, strongty for-
tified by nature, almost inaccessible in itself, and sufficiently
manned, was capable of being rendered a much more difficult
morsel to the assailants than they found it to be. This, I own,
was not the common idea at the time ; but it is not the less true.
To embellish military exploits, and varnish military disgraces, is
no unusual policy. Besides, Governor Clinton was at the zenith
of his popularity — a circumstance which disposed men's minds
to take a great deal for granted. One particular in this affair de-
serves to be noticed. It is certain that the Governor made a
well-timed retreat, (I mean personally, for the greatest part of
the garrison were captured,) a thing which must have occasioned
no small conflict in the breast of a commander nice in military
punctilio. But squeamishness on this head had been ill-placed.
It was undoubtedly the duty of the Brigadier to provide in season
for the safety of the Governor.

Those who are best acquainted with the particulars of the
burning of Esopus, in the fall of the year 1777, assert that his
Excellency was culpably deficient in exertion on that occasion.
The fact seems to have been, that a large body of men re-
mained unemployed in the vicinity, under his direction, while
the descent of the enemy was made with little or no opposition.
And there is room to suppose, that if a better countenance had
been kept up, the evil might have been prevented.

Very sincerely yours,

H. G.

To . Esq., Suffolk County.

G04 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

LETTER III.

New-York, February 22, 1789.

Dear Sir :

You mention, towards the close of your letter, two reports cir-
culating in your county, which you say operate to the advantage
of Mr. Clinton ; the one, that at the time he first took the chair
of government, " the great men," as they are insidiously called,
declined the station, through apprehension of the dangers that
might attend it, — not less willing then to set him up as a mark
for the resentment of the power with which we were contending,
in case of an unfortunate issue to the war, than eager now to de-
prive him of the well-earned fruits of his courage, after it has
been happily terminated : the other, that the exertions made by
this State during the war, are chiefly to be attributed to his in-
fluence.

Truly, my dear sir, had the terms of your letter been less
positive, I could not have supposed it possible that suggestions
so unfounded as these, and so easily to be disproved by the tes-
timony of all well-informed men, could ever have been propa-
gated.

So far is the first report from being true, that it is a fact noto-
rious to those who were acquainted with the transactions of the
period, that in the very first election for governor in this State,
General Schuyler was a competitor with Mr. Clinton for the
office, and it is alleged would have been likely to prevail, had
not the votes of a considerable body of militia, then under the
immediate command and influence of the latter, turned the scales
in his favor.

Neither is there much more of truth in the second report.
Mr. Clinton's zeal and activity in forwarding the revolution were
unquestionably conspicuous. But to ascribe to him the chief
merit of the exertions of the State, is to decorate him with the
spoils of others. There were, at every period of the war, choice
spirits in both Houses of the legislature, his equals in zeal and
fortitude, his superiors in abilities. These men needed not his

iET. 32.] letters of h. g. 605

incitement to invigorate their efforts, nor his counsel to direct
their plans.

One of the number only I shall name, Egbert Benson, Esq.,
the present attorney-general ; this gentleman, in the capacity of
a member of the Assembly, long had a principal agency in giving
energy and animation to the measures of the State. In confining
myself to the mention of Mr. Benson, it is not because there are
not others who have an equal right to it, but because it is his pe-
culiar good fortune to have virtues and talents, and yet to be unen~
vied. And as it is my intention you should be at liberty to
make any use of these letters which you may think proper, I am
unwilling to attempt an enumeration of all the characters alluded
to, lest, if incomplete, it should be the occasion of offence. Though
not immediately connected with the subject, there is one circum-
stance which I cannot forbear mentioning before I conclude.
Mr. Benson, during the war, was considered as the confidential
friend and adviser of the governor. Not long after the peace,
it was perceived that this relation between the two persons be-
gan to be weakeued, and it is some time since it has been under-
stood to have entirely ceased. The first appearance of the change
was, to discerning men, an ill omen of the future. But Benson
was an unfit confidant for the new system of policy. He was
honest and independent. Materials better adapted for tools were
wanted, and they have been selected with admirable judgment.
Yours, with much regard,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER IV.

New- York, February 24, 1789.
You will perceive, my dear sir, from the sketch I have given
you, that though the present governor has a just title to credit for
his exertions in the last revolution, yet the degree of credit to

GOG HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

which he is entitled has been immodestly exaggerated. It is to
be wished, nevertheless, for the honor and interest of the State,
that his administration since the peace was proportionably com-
mendable. But Avith the close of the war, the scene of merit
closes. All that succeeds is either negative or mischievous.

It may seem strange to some, that a man who had behaved
well in one situation, should be so entirely defective or faulty in
another. But men acquainted with human nature, and its his-
tory, on a large scale, will be sensible that there is nothing extra-
ordinary in the thing. Many of those who have proved the
worst scourges of society, have, in the commencement of their
career, been its brightest ornaments. These fair beginnings are
sometimes the effect of premeditation, to pave the way to future
mischief; at other times^ they are the natural result of a mixed
character, placed in favorable circumstances.

In all struggles for liberty, the leaders of the people have fal-
len under two principal discriminations ; those who, to a con-
viction of the real usefulness of civil liberty, join a sincere attach-
ment to the public good, and those who are of restless and turbulent
spirits, impatient of control, and averse to all «power or superi-
ority which they do not themselves enjoy. With men of the
latter description, this transition from demagogues to despots is
neither difficult nor uncommon.

Mr. Clinton, as a zealous advocate for Amerioan independence
in the course of a war, in which the cause to which he was at-
tached was every moment exposed to the most critical hazards,
under the influence of a sense of continual danger to that cause,
and of course to himself, as one of its supporters, was naturally led
to activity and exertion. But such a situation affords a very
partial and imperfect view of his character. No certain con-
clusion can be drawn from it of the general disposition and prin-
ciples of the man. These can only be estimated with certainty
in situations in which the passions have their natural and ordi-
nary course, free from any violent impulse of any kind.

It is therefore in the peace-administration of Mr. Clinton, that
we may expect to find the best materials for judging of his fit-
ness or unfitness to govern. These I shall endeavor to explore

jEt. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 607

in some succeeding letters, concluding the present with this gen-
eral observation : / do not recollect a single measure of public util-
ity, since the peace, for which the State is indebted to its chief magistrate.
Yours with sincere regard,

H. G.

To , Esq.. Suffolk County.

LETTER V.

New-York, February 25th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

In yours of the 23d instant, which has just come to hand,
you observe that there are persons in your county who entertain
favorable impressions of the present Governor, for the good order
preserved in this city upon the evacuation by the British troops,
and which you say is ascribed to his moderation, care, and deci-
sion. This is an idea riot confined to your county. Mr. Clinton
and his friends have had the address to disseminate it in this and
in other parts of the district. The apprehensions excited by
some inflammatory publications, prior to our taking possession
of the city, disposed men's minds to regard it as a great merit in
the Executive, that they were not subjected to general plunder
and massacre. But this compliment to him includes a supposi-
tion of licentiousness and fury in the citizens in general, who '
returned within the district at that period, which they do not
deserve, and which, in truth, form no part of the American
character.

It must be confessed that there were a few violent men, and
that these, for the sake of present consequence, endeavored to
work on the passions of others for intemperate purposes. But
the number of those who were inclined to violate the laws, or
disturb the public peace, was at no time considerable enough to
make the danger serious. The greater part were either for
liberal and moderate measures, or, at worst, for some legislative

608 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

discriminations. It is worthy of remark, that some of the most
heated have been, at all times, warm adherents to the Governor,
and objects of his peculiar patronage.

What was the precise line of conduct pursued by his Excel-
lency at the juncture in question, I have never been able clearly
to ascertain. But to many, and to me among the rest, it ap-
peared indecisive and temporizing, favoring more of artifice and
duplicity than of real prudence or energy. A popular chief
magistrate, as Mr. Clinton then certainly was, standing on the
firm ground of national faith and the constitution, by an inde-
pendent use of his influence, might, in all probability, have
prevented some measures of that day which have been both
injurious and disreputable to the State.

The inclination of the Governor to hinder tumult or commo-
tion is not to be questioned. In his situation, a man must have
been both abandoned and mad not to have had that inclination.
Eegard to his own authority and consequence, independent of
other motives, was sufficient to produce it. But there are cir-
cumstances which warrant a conclusion, that he had formed a
plan of building up his own popularity in the city upon that of
certain individuals who were then advocates for persecution;
not, indeed, in the shape of mobs and riots, but of law; by
banishment, disfranchisement, and the like ; and that his conduct
was guided by condescensions to them, which, in some measure,
involved him in their policy. There is a fact to this effect, the
particulars of which I do not now distinctly recollect, but which,
'as far as my memory serves me, was of the following com-
plexion : — The Council appointed for the temporary government
of the Southern district, on account of some irregularities which
had happened, passed a resolution, or framed a proclamation, for
repressing the spirit that had occasioned them, which was in-
trusted to the Governor for publication. Instead, however, of
executing the intention of the Council, he communicated their
act to two of the persons alluded to, and, upon their advices or
remonstrances, withheld it from publication till the next meeting
of the Council, a majority of whom were then prevailed upon to
rescind it.

jEt. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 609

It is not undeserving of attention, that the chief agents in
promoting the laws, passed after the evacuation of the city, of
which the inhabitants of the Southern district had reason to
complain, were men who had been constantly devoted to the
Governor; and that the persons who have had the greatest share
in mitigating, or abrogating, those exceptionable laws, have been
in opposite views to him. And it ought not to escape observa-
tion, that there has never been any official act of the Governor
calculated to effect the alteration or repeal of those laws.

It is with reluctance, my dear sir, that I look back to trans-
actions which cannot be too soon forgotten. All parties now
rejoice in the effects of a more liberal policy. And I should not
have been induced to revive topics of so disagreeable a nature,
had it not been necessary as well to the advancement of truth,
as to the performance of my promise to you.

I remain your friend and servant,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER VI.

New-York, Feb. 26, 1789.

Dear Sir:

I shall now proceed to give you a brief history of the Gov-
ernor's administration since the peace, as it respects the United
States ; from the whole of which, preferring the evidence of
actions to that of professions, I am persuaded that you will agree
with me, that there is satisfactory proof of his being an enemy
to the American Union.

The facts from which I shall draw this conclusion are of the
following nature : —

I. That while he has acknowledged the insufficiency of the
old government, he has strenuously opposed the principal mea-
sures devised by the joint councils of America, for supporting
and strengthening it.
f 39

610 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [&t. 32.

II. That he has treated Congress, as a body, in a contemptu-
ous manner.

III. That his behavior towards the individuals composing
that body, has been of a nature calculated to give them just
cause of disgust.

IV. That he disapproved of the very first step taken towards
the effectual amendment of the old confederation.

V. That he prejudged and condemned the new Constitution
before it was framed.

YI. That he opposed it, after it appeared, with unreasonable
obstinacy.

VII. That he has continued his opposition to it even since
its adoption by this State. And,

VIII. That he is unfriendly to the residence of Congress in
this city.

From the assemblage of these facts, I am mistaken, my dear
sir, if you do not think the evidence of his enmity to the Union
complete ; and I shall not be the less mistaken if you do not
consider this as a conclusive objection to his re-election.

Whatever may have been your doubts respecting parts of
the new Constitution, I am satisfied that you regard the preserva-
tion of the Union as essential to the peace and prosperity of the
country, and will deem it unsafe to trust any man with power,
who entertains views inimical to it.

Unfeignedly yours,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER VII.

New-York, Feb. 27th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

In my last I stated a number of facts tending to prove that
Mr. Clinton is not a friend of the Union. I would not be under-

JF.r. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 611

stood, that either of these facts singly would authorize such a
conclusion, but that it is the result of them collectively. Many
men, of whose good intentions I have no doubt, have entertained
similar sentiments with him on several of the points stated; but
I am mistaken if there is to be found one, out of the circle of his
immediate instruments, who has had or discovered the same dis-
position in all the particulars. I shall now briefly mention the
different articles of charge.

The first is, that, while he has acknowledged the insufficiency
of the old government, he has strenuously opposed the principal
measures devised by the joint councils of America for supporting
and strengthening it.

This admission of the insufficiency of the old confederation
has not only been made in private conversations, but fully and
pointedly in the late Convention of this State. He has not, how-
ever, uniformly held the same language, as will be taken notice
of hereafter.

To prove the latter part of the charge, I shall instance his op-
position to the impost system proposed by Congress, and repeat-
edly urged by them as the only measures to obtain revenue, for
objects of indispensable importance, on which reliance could be
placed.

The first idea of a general impost for the benefit of the United
States, is said to have originated in a convention held at Hart-
ford, consisting of deputies from the four New England States
and from New-York. The measure was agreed upon in Con-
gress in February, 1781, at a period when the United States,
after various trials of requisitions, and of other expedients, were
reduced to the utmost extremity of distress, for want of money to
carry on the war. The impost then proposed was, I believe,
granted by all the States except Rhode Island. The act of this
State, passed 19th of March, 1781, expressly provides, that the
duties granted to Congress " should be levied and collected in such
manner and form, and under such pains, penalties, and regulations,
and by such officers, as Congress should from time to time make, order,
direct, and appoint."

But, on the appearance of peace, the system of our policy

612 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

changed. The foregoing act was repealed by one passed the 15th
of March, 1783, by which it was too apparent that the leaders of
our councils, at the first dawn of peace, were resolved to desert
the principles which had governed them in the time of common
danger.

It is true, that the same act grants the duties anew, but to be
collected by the officers, and under the authority of the State ;
which was so essential an alteration of the plan as would have
rendered it necessary (had not the opposition of Ehode Island
already done so) to recommence the business in a new form, in
order that all the States might stand on an equal footing.
I remain, dear Sir,

Your obedient and humble servant,

H. G.

To , Esq , Suffolk County.

LETTER VIII.

New-York, February 28th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The embarrassments experienced in carrying through the
first plan, the increase of the national debt, and other circum-
stances, induced Congress to devise a new system of impost,
which was finally agreed upon on the 18th of April, 1783.

In this system, the appointment of the officers to collect the
duties was referred to the several States, which it was supposed
would remove the principal objection to the former plan. All
the States, except New-York, substantially adopted it, annexing
certain precautions for the more secure exercise of the powers
granted to Congress. But New-York persisted to the last in
withholding her assent. She passed, indeed, a law for granting
an impost on different principles ; but as Congress could not ac-
cept this without releasing the other States, and setting the
whole business afloat, it was evident to all the world, that the act

/Et. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 613

of New- York was nothing better than a mere evasion of the thing
asked.

The Governor, undoubtedly, took an active part in opposition
to this measure. It is true, he declared in the convention that
he had always been a friend to the impost, but could not agree to
the manner in which Congress proposed to exercise the power.
This is plainly a subterfuge. He was a friend to an abstract
something, which might be any thing or nothing, as he pleased ;
but he was an enemy to the thing proposed. A general impost,
being a measure not within the provision of the confederation,
could only be brought about by some general plan devised by the
common councils of the Union, and submitted to the adoption of
the several States. There could else be no concert, no common
agreement. To oppose, therefore, the specific plan offered, and
yet pretend to be a friend to the thing in the abstract, deserves
no better name than that of hypocrisy.

I am possessed of unquestionable evidence, to prove that he
used personal influence with members of the legislature to preju-
dice them against the granting of the impost. You may obtain
a confirmation of this from one of the gentlemen who represented
your own county in the year 1786. The argument employed
with him was, that Congress being a single body, and conse-
quently without checks, would be apt to misapply the money
arising from it. This looks like more than an objection to the
mode. If the money was to be granted in any shape, that conse-
quence, if to be apprehended at all, might follow.

A question of a very delicate and serious nature arises on the
conduct of the Governor. Is it justifiable in the chief magistrate
.of a State to employ his personal influence with individual mem-
bers of the legislature in relation to any matter of public con-
cern, which is to come under their deliberation? To me an in-
terference of this sort appears highly exceptionable.
With sincere regard, I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

II. G.

To , Esq.. Suffolk County.

614 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 32.

LETTER IX.

New-York, March 2d, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The second particular which I have stated, as evidence of Mr.
Clinton's enmity to the Union, is, that he has treated Congress, as
a body, in a contemptuous manner.

A proof of this exists in his refusal to convene the legislature
of this State in the year 1786, upon pressing and repeated suppli-
cations of Congress ; sheltering himself under the frivolous pre-
tence, that the constitution did not leave him at liberty to do it.

The constitution empowers the governor to convene the legis-
lature " on extraordinary occasions." This provision is evidently
calculated to enable him to call together the legislature whenever
any thing of importance out of the ordinary routine of State
business should occur. To put any other meaning upon it is ab-
surd, and would embarrass the operations of government. It
cannot be supposed that the constitution intended by "extraor-
dinary occasions," nothing but wars, rebellions, plagues, or earth-
quakes. The word "extraordinary," as used in this case, can
only be construed as equivalent to special; and a special occasion
is any thing of moment out of the common and expected course.
It merits attention, that the words of the constitution are, simply,
that the governor " shall have power to convene the legislature
upon extraordinary occasions." This mode of expression has
plainly an authorizing and empowering, not a restricting operation.
It is true that the governor is bound, in the exercise of this power,
to observe a reasonable discretion, and not to act with caprice,
levity, or wantonness ; but the same may be said of every other
power with which he is intrusted, and does not affect the consti-
tutional sense of the provision.

Let us now, sir, take a view of the nature of the application
and refusal. The legislature of the State, in May, 1786, passed
the act I have already mentioned, in lieu of one conformable to
the plan proposed by Congress, and agreed to by the other twelve
States ; for even Rhode Island had at length got the better of

,Et. 32.] LETTERS OF II. G. 615

her scruples. Congress were of opinion, for the most obvious
and solid reasons, that they could derive no advantage from the
act of New-York ; that to attempt it would be to let go their
hold on the twelve adopting States, who had made the passing
of similar acts by all the States, the condition of their grants;
that the act of New- York, independent of the objection just men-
tioned, was framed upon principles mischievous in their nature,
and calculated not only in a great measure to -defeat the revenue,
but to prevent several of the States from entering into the plan.
One of these principles was, that the paper money of the States
should be receivable in payment of duties. If Congress had
acceded to such a plan, the consequence would have been, that
the other States which had emitted paper money would insist
upon the same privilege ; by which mean the duties would be
paid in nominal money of different degrees of value, in some
States at a depreciation of forty or fifty per cent. ; a circumstance
which would have diminished the product of the impost, rendered
the burthen unequal upon the citizens of different States, and
deterred the States averse to paper money from engaging in the
scheme.

Congress, for these and other good reasons, considered the act
of New- York as amounting to nothing. They felt at the same time
that the honor and interest of the Union were suffering for want
of the co-operation of this State. They experienced the most
painful embarrassment, in particular from the just demands of
those foreigners, who had lent us money to carry on the war.
They saw themselves without resource, even for paying the inter-
est of the foreign debt, except by new loans abroad for that pur-
pose ; a resource which had the pernicious effect of an accumula-
tion of the debt (for which all our estates must be considered as
mortgaged) by the tremendous process of compound interest.

In this disgraceful and ruinous situation, the representatives
of the United States make a solemn application to the Governor
to convene the legislature, for the purpose of reconsidering their
act. He refuses to comply, assigning the curious reason, that the
Constitution empowers him to convene the legislature only on
extraordinary occasions, and that the present does not seem to

616 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 32.

him such. To give color to this idea, he intimates the recent con-
sideration of the business by the legislature.

He seems in this proceeding not only to have taken it for
granted, that the legislature would be immovable by the most
solid reasons for altering their policy, (which, if true, he had no
right to presume,) but also to have forgotten, or not to have
chosen to recollect, that the legislature to be convened was not
to be regarded as the same body which had before decided,
having been formed by a subsequent election of the people.
The measure would, therefore, have had to undergo a new exa-
mination by a new body.

He, notwithstanding, refuses. Congress, impelled by the
exigency of the situation, pass new resolutions, declaring their
opinion that the critical and embarrassed situation of the finances
of the United States required that the system of impost should
be carried into immediate effect ; and that they deemed the occa-
sion sufficiently important and extraordinary to request that the
legislature of this State should be convened ; and therefore again
earnestly recommending it to the Executive to convene the legis-
lature. The Governor persisted in his refusal, and the legislature
is not convened.

Now, sir, I will boldly appeal to every candid mind, whether
this transaction is not evidence, as well of a splenetic and disre-
spectful disposition towards the government of the United States,
as of a temper inflexibly haughty and obstinate. In what a
humiliating light must he have considered Congress, not to have
looked upon their earnest and repeated application, on a matter
which they and all the other States thought of the most serious
moment to the Union, in a situation notoriously distressing and
critical, as an occasion sufficiently special to leave him at liberty
to call the legislature together ! How much of contempt and
disregard towards the representative authority of confederated
America was implied in such a construction ! The merits of the
impost system are of no consequence in the consideration of the
subject. The whole is a question of decorum and due deference
in the head of a particular member of the confederacy towards
the head of the whole confederacy. In this lig^ht, it is evident

,Et. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 617

that the conduct of the Governor on the occasion was an insult
to the people of the United States, and of course to the people
of this State, through their representatives in Congress.
I remain with the truest attachment, dear Sir,
Your obedient and humble servant,

H G .

To Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER X.

New- York, March 3, 1789.

Dear Sir:

I have mentioned as a third circumstance tending to prove
the enmity of the Governor to the Union, " That his behavior
towards the individuals composing Congress has been of a nature
calculated to give them just cause of disgust."

I am well informed that his Excellency never made a visit to,
or had any intercourse of civilities with either of the two last
Presidents of Congress. This neglect on his part appears the
more pointed, as it is well known that he had been upon a foot-
ing of intimacy with one of the gentlemen previous to his ap-
pointment, I mean General St. Clair. This gentleman had been
heard to lament that the Governor's conduct towards him, in an
official respect, had put it out of his power to keep up the amica-
ble intercourse which had formerly subsisted between them. It
seems as if the character of a President of Congress amounted, in
the Governor's estimation, to a forfeiture even of the rights of
private friendship.

This behavior to the official head of Congress, is to be
regarded in a stronger light than mere disrespect to the individual.
It may justly be esteemed disrespect to the body themselves, and
to have been dictated by a disposition to humiliate the govern-
ment which they administered.

618 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 32.

The same spirit ran through the Governor's conduct towards
the members of Congress in general. Very few, if any of them,
experienced any attentions whatever from him.

Whatever apology may be made for the Governor's want of
decent hospitality towards the representatives of the United
States, I believe it will be difficult to find an excuse for his
personal neglect of them. There are civilities which cost nothing,
and these might have been bestowed without any violation of the
frugality of his Excellency's maxims.

It may be asked, how it can be determined where the fault
lay, whether with the Governor, or with the individuals of Con-
gress? I answer, that with regard to the Presidents of Congress,
there can be no doubt. As that body sat in the State, it was
unquestionably the duty of the Governor to pay the first atten-
tions to the President after his election. This rule has been
understood throughout America, and its propriety is self-evident.
The omitting to pay those attentions, was a mark of disregard to
the government of the Union, for which there can be no excuse,
and which admits of but one interpretation.
Dear Sir,

Yours sincerely, &c,

H G .

To Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER* XL

New- York, March 4th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

Some time in the latter part of the year 1785, or beginning of
1786, the State of Virginia proposed the holding a convention, for
the purpose of devising some system of commercial regulations
for the United States. This State, among others, acceded to the
proposition, and the deputies from the different States appointed

Mr. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 619

pursuant, met at Annapolis in the fall of 1786. But the num-
ber actually assembled formed so incomplete a representation of
the Union, that, if there had been no other reason, it would have
been inexpedient for them to proceed in the execution of their
mission. In addition to this, they were unanimously of opinion,
that some more radical reform was necessary ; and that even to
accomplish the immediate end for which they had been deputed,
certain collateral changes in the federal system would be requi-
site, to which their powers in general could not be deemed com-
petent. Under these impressions, they, with one voice, earn-
estly recommended it to the several States to appoint deputies
to meet in convention, in the ensuing month of May, with power
to revise the confederation at large, and to propose such altera-
tions and amendments as should appear to them necessary to
render it adequate to the exigencies of the Union.

The report of this convention was in course handed to the
Governor, on the return of the deputies of this State from Anna-
polis.

I have ascertained it beyond a doubt, that in a conversation
on the subject of this report, he expressed a strong dislike of its
object, declaring that, in his opinion, no such reform as the re-
port contemplated was necessary; that the confederation as it
stood was equal to the purposes of the Union, or, with little
alteration, could be made so ; and that he thought the deputies
assembled upon that occasion, would have done better to have
confined themselves to the purposes of their errand.

This was the first thing that gave me a decisive impression
of the insincerity of his Excellency's former conduct. The oppo-
nents of the impost system had, in their writings and conversa-
tion, held up the organization of Congress as a principal objec-
tion, to the grant of power required by that system. The same
sentiment had been conveyed by the Governor. The want of
checks from the constitution of Congress, as a single body,
seemed to be the bulwark of the opposition. But now that a pro-
posal was made which evidently had in view a different con-
struction of the federal government, the language was all at once
changed. The old confederation as it stood, or with little alter-
ation, was deemed to be competent to the ends of the Union.

620 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 32.

This, then, seemed to be the true state of the business. On
the one hand, Congress, as constituted, was not fit to be trusted
with power ; on the other, it was not expedient to constitute them
differently. To me it appears impossible to reconcile all this to a
sincere attachment to an efficient federal government. Thus, sir,
have I explained to you my meaning in the assertion : that the
Governor disapproved of the very first step taken towards the
effectual amendment of the old confederation.
I remain with esteem, dear Sir,

Your very humble servant,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER XII.

New-York, March 6th, 1789.

Dear Sir: *

One of the circumstances stated to you in mine of the 26th of
February, to show that the Governor is unfriendly to the Union,
is, that he prejudged and condemned the new Constitution be-
fore it was framed.

This fact has been long since given to the public, to which
no other answer, that I have heard, has been made by his Ex-
cellency or his friends, than that he, as a citizen, had a right to
entertain and declare such sentiments as appeared to him pro-
per. This is a position not to be denied; but it is equally unde-
niable, that his constituents have as good a right to judge of the
propriety of his opinions and conduct, and of the views by which
they seem to be actuated.

While the convention was sitting at Philadelphia, the Gov-
ernor, I am well informed, made unreserved declarations of his
opinion, that no good was to be expected from the appointment
or deliberations of that body. That the most likely result was,
that the country would be thrown into confusion by the mea-
sure. That it was by no means a necessary one ; as the confed-

a:t.32.] letters of h. g. 621

eration had not had a sufficient trial, and probably, on more full
experiment, would be found to answer all the purposes of the
Union.

Here we will discover the clearest indication of a predeter-
mined opposition in the mind of his Excellency. He is not a man
governed in ordinary cases by sudden impulse. Though, of
an irritable temper, when not under the immediate influence of
irritation, he is circumspect and guarded ; and seldom acts or
speaks without premeditation and design.

Language of the kind I have mentioned, from him, clearly
betrayed an intention to excite prejudices beforehand against
whatever plan should be proposed by the convention. For such,
conduct, or for such an intention, no apology can be made. The
United States conceived a convention to be proper, necessary,
and expedient. They appointed one, this State concurring.
Their deputies were actually assembled, and in deliberation.
The step once taken, it became the duty of every good man to
give the attempt a fair chance. It was criminal to endeavor to
raise prepossessions against it. That very conduct might have
led to the mischief predicted. It was certainly not his Excel-
lency's fault that his predictions were not fulfilled. In all pro-
bability, if his whole party had been as pertinacious as himself,
the confusion he foretold would now exist. But, happily for the
United States, some of them were more prudent, and we are in
peace.

The declarations of the Governor on this occasion, fix upon
him the charge of inconsistency. How can what he .said in the
instance in question be reconciled with his declaration in the
convention, " that he had always lamented the feebleness of the con-
federation t "

Yours, with great regard,

H. G.

To Esq., Suffolk County.

622 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 32.

LETTER XIII.

March 7th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The next in order of the circumstances, alleged in proof of
the unfriendly disposition of the Governor to the Union, is that
he opposed the new Constitution, after it appeared, with un-
reasonable obstinacy.

To judge of the propriety of this observation, it ought to be
recollected, that the merits or demerits of that constitution must,
after all, be in a great measure a speculative question, which
experience only can solve with certainty.

It ought also to be recollected that the convention who
framed it consisted, if not wholly, at least generally, of men
from whom America had received the strongest proofs of pa-
triotism and ability ; that this body, so composed (with the ex-
ception of only three individuals), united in the plan, which was
the result of their joint deliberations; and that a Franklin and
a Washington are among the number of those who gave their
approbation to it.

It ought further to be attended to, that when the conven-
tion of this State came to a decision, ten out of the thirteen
States had adopted the Constitution, and that a majority of the
characters in each State, most distinguished for virtue and wis-
dom, were among its advocates.

These, sir, are truths which (notwithstanding the clandestine
arts made use of to traduce some of the best and brightest char-
acters of America for being friends to the Constitution) no man
of candor or information among its opponents will deny.

I do not infer from them, that the Constitution ought on those
accounts to have been considered as a good one ; but I contend
that they dictated greater moderation in the opposition than ap-
peared in the Governor's conduct. They ought to have taught
him, that unless he had better assurance of his own infallibili-
ty than an impartial estimate of himself would justify, there was
a possibility of his being mistaken in his speculations ; and that

JEt.32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 623

as a further resistance to the general sense of America was preg-
nant with manifest inconveniences and hazards, it became him to
sacrifice the pride of opinion to a spirit of accommodation.

I should be the last to blame any man for opposing the adop-
tion of the Constitution, while its establishment was yet a ques-
tion in the United States ; but when that was no longer the case ;
when nine States, the number required by the Constitution to its
establishment, had adopted it ; when it had thereby become the
government of the Union, I think further opposition was not
justifiable by any motives of prudence or patriotism. These
considerations had their proper weight with a great proportion
of the Governor's party.

Out of sixty-four members, of which the Convention of this
State consisted, there were at first only nineteen in favor of the
Constitution. In the conclusion, there was a majority which did
actually adopt it. But the Governor persisted to the last in his
negative.

All those of his party who concurred in the adoption (and
among whom were some of its ablest leaders), are to be regarded
as so many witnesses to the unreasonable obstinacy of the
Governor's conduct on the occasion. Why did they agree to
adopt ? Because they saw that a contrary course was replete
with danger to the peace and welfare of this State and of the
Union. They acted in that like moderate and prudent men.
Why did not his Excellency act a similar part ? Let facts de-
cide ! Let the collective complexion of his language and be-
havior inform us ! The inference from the whole will certainly
not exempt him from the imputation of obstinacy, nor give us a
very favorable impression of his inclination to preserve the tran-
quillity and Union of the States.

I entertain no doubt that your judgment of this instance of
the Governor's conduct will correspond with mine, as I have
understood that the conduct of the members of your county had
met your entire approbation. These gentlemen are among the
number of those who, though like yourself, are not attached in
the abstract to the Constitution as it stands, prudently yielded

624 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [/Et. 32.

to the considerations of expediency which recommended its
adoption.

Accept my best wishes for your health, and

Believe me always yours,

h. a

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER XIV.

March 8th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The seventh of the circumstances enumerated in proof of his
Excellency's enmity to the Union is, that he has continued his
opposition to the new Constitution even since its adoption by
this State.

There are two kinds of opposition, direct and indirect. The
Governor must have been an idiot to have rendered himself
chargeable with the first kind. It would have brought the
resentment of the whole community upon him, and frustrated
the very object he had in view. Indirect methods were the only
ones that could be practised with safety, or with any prospect of
success. To embarrass, not to defeat, the operations of the
government, was, of necessity, the plan of a man who wished ill
to it.

The adversaries of the Constitution in Virginia have furnished
a striking specimen of this species of policy. The last legisla-
ture in which they were predominant, made no difficulty about
organizing the government. The act of the people was, of
course, to be obeyed in appearance. But its efficacy was to be
destroyed by throwing obstacles in the way of the administration
of the system. For this purpose an act has been passed, declar-
ing it incompatible for any officer of the State to perform official
functions under the authority of the United States.

This act, if valid, would oblige the United States to have a

Mr. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 625

complete set of officers for every branch of the national business
— judges, justices of the peace, sheriffs, jail-keepers, constables,
&c, which could not fail to render the government odious. This
may serve as a sample of the means by which it may be dis-
tressed and counteracted.

The friends of the Governor tell us that after the adoption of
the Constitution, he declared in convention that he would con-
ceive himself bound to maintain the public peace, and to concur
in putting the system into operation. This was saying as little as
possible. Luckily, the public peace was in no clanger ; and his
Excellency, with all his hardihood, would not dare to refuse an
official co-operation in putting the government established by the
people in motion. I attended the debates of the convention, and
I could not forbear remarking, that the Governor, in the speech
alluded to, seemed carefully to confine his assurances to a mere
official compliance. The impression made upon my mind by the
two last speeches he delivered, was this : that he would, as Gov-
ernor of the State, in mere official transactions, conform to the
Constitution ; but that he should think it expedient to keep alive
the spirit of opposition in the people, until the amendments pro-
posed, or another convention (I am not certain which), could be
obtained. In this impression I am not singular ; there were
others who understood him in the same sense.

No reasonable man can doubt that such a sentiment was an
unjustifiable one. The United States are to determine on the
propriety of amendments, and on the expediency of a conven-
tion. Both must be referred to their judgment. If they think
both improper or unnecessary, it is the duty of a particular mem-
ber to acquiesce. This is the fundamental principle of the social
compact. To threaten the continuance of an opposition, there-
fore, till either of those purposes was accomplished, was in every
way intemperate and unwarrantable. That there will be a recon-
sideration of parts of the system, and that certain amendments
will be made, I devoutly wish and confidently expect. I have
no doubt that the system is susceptible of improvement, and I
anxiously desire that every prudent means may be used to con-
ciliate the honest oponents of it. But I reprobate the idea of
F 40

626 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 32.

keeping up an opposition upon principles, which derogate from
those on which it is, and must necessarily be supported. I repro-
bate the idea of one State giving law to the rest.

But even the official compliance promised by the Governor,
has hitherto been afforded in a very ungracious and exceptiona-
ble manner; in such a manner as indicates secret hostility and a
disposition to have the government considered in an unimportant
and inferior light. On the 13th of September, 1788, the act for
organizing the government was passed by Congress, and it is
presumed was communicated without delay. We know that it
immediately appeared in the public papers. But it was not until
the 13th of October following, that the Governor issued his pro-
clamation for convening the legislature, and the time appointed
for their meeting was less than a month from that which was
fixed for the appointment of electors to choose the President and
Vice-President. This procrastination appeared at a time extra-
ordinary to every body, and wore the aspect of slight and neglect
at least. The Governor asserts that it was impracticable to
convene the legislature sooner; but he has not told us why it
was so ; and I scruple not to affirm, that if a reason is ever
assigned, it will be found so flimsy a one, as to discover the insig-
nificant light in which his Excellency was disposed to view and
treat the national government. Neglect and slights calculated to
lessen the opinion of the importance of a thing, and bring it into
discredit, are often the most successful weapons by which it can
be attacked.

But this is not the only view in which the delay in convening
the legislature is to be considered as reprehensible. It had the
effect of depriving the legislature itself of the exercise of a right
vested in them by the national Constitution, and hazarded an un-
due postponement of our representation in Congress, which has
actually happened. As to the first, the Constitution of the United
States leaves the mode of appointing electors to the discretion
of the State legislatures. They may, therefore, refer them to the
choice of the people, if they think proper. This has been done
in several of the States, and is, in my opinion, a privilege which
it is of great importance should be in the hands of the people.

Ml. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 627

Making the usual allowances for want of punctuality in meeting,
disagreement in opinion, difficulties in framing new and untried
regulations, it may be safely pronounced that the legislature was
assembled too late to refer the choice of electors to the people ;
whereby they were deprived of an opportunity of exercising a
constitutional discretion, and the people of a chance of exercising
a privilege of very considerable moment to their interests. May
it not be justly said in this instance, that the Governor under-
took to think for the legislature ? But this is not all. The
state of the parties in the legislature was understood long before
they met, and it was to have been foreseen that there would
have been a diversity of views in regard to the mode of appoint-
ing our national representatives, and consequently delays in
agreeing upon any. By not calling the legislature early enough
to allow time for overcoming these impediments, it happens, that
in a matter in which the two houses did finally agree, to wit, the
manner of choosing members of the national House of Eepre-
sentatives, the execution has been so greatly procrastinated, that
it must be more than a month from the time appointed for the
meeting of the body before it can be even ascertained who our
representatives are.

There is a further circumstance in which the Governor's con-
duct subjects him to the suspicion of an intention to embarrass
the measures relating to the Constitution.

The Senate having, in very gentle terms, intimated a wish
that the legislature had been more early convened, the Governor,
in a very petulant and indecent reply, considering that it was the
Executive speaking to a branch of the legislature, made himself
a party on the side of the Assembly in the controversy between
the two houses, and thereby furnished a motive of obstinacy to
the one and of irritation to the other. It is well known, that in
that controversy, one of the reasons on which the Assembly had
chiefly relied in insisting upon the joint ballot, was, that it ap-
proached more nearly to an election by the people; while the Senate
held that they were entitled to an equal voice, and that, as being
the peculiar representative, by our Constitution, of the great body of
the freeholders, they were bound, by a regard to the interests of

628 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 32.

that class, as well as to their own rights as a branch of the legis-
lature, to insist upon the equality they claimed.

The Senate in their speech had observed, that, if there had
been time, they would have been for referring the choice of
electors to the people. The Governor answers, that it was im-
practicable to convene the legislature in time for that object, and
intimates a persuasion that the Senate will see the propriety of
pursuing their principle as far as circumstances would permit,
by adopting such mode of appointment as should appear most
nearly to approach an election by the people, adverting to the ground
which had been taken by the majority in the Assembly. This
intimation of the Governor could not be understood in any other
light than as advocating their principle, and could not have failed
to have had the effect of confirming them in it, and alienating
the Senate, who were indelicately treated, still more from it.
There are circumstances which render a hint as intelligible as the
most precise and positive expressions.

This species of interference in a question between the two
branches of the legislature was very unbecoming in the Chief
Magistrate, and bespoke much more the intemperate partisan
than the temperate arbiter of differences prejudicial to the State.

And the inference from the whole of what I have stated, is,
that the Governor, since the adoption of the Constitution in this
State, has manifested the reverse of a disposition to afford it a cor-
dial support.

I remain, with great regard,

Yours, &c,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER XV.

March 9th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

The last of the circumstances mentioned by me in my letter
of the 20th of February, as evincive of the inimical disposition of

^t. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 629

the Governor towards the Union, is, that he is unfriendly to the
residence of Congress in this city.

This maybe inferred from the disrespectful manner in which
he has treated that honorable body, aggregately and individually,
as detailed in some former letters; and from his fomenting that
spirit of party in the legislature which has left us without a rep-
resentation in Congress.

But the matter does not rest on this evidence only. I have
direct proof that he has held language clearly indicating an
opinion in him, real or affected, that it was a disadvantage to the
State to have the seat of the federal government in it. His ob-
jections have been drawn from its pretended tendency to pro-
mote luxury and dissipation. He has, I am well informed, talked

in this style, among others, to our friend, Judge , of

county, with some circumstances of aggravation, which, from a
regard to decency, I forbear to repeat.

Now, my dear sir, nothing but a rooted hostility to all federal
government could have dictated this sentiment in the breast of
the Governor. Every man of sense knows that the residence of
Congress among us has been a considerable source of wealth to
the State ; and as to the idle tale of its promoting luxury and
dissipation, I believe there has not been for a number of years
past a period of greater frugality than that in which Congress
have resided in this city. As far as my observation or informa-
tion extends, it has made no sensible difference in the style of
living, as to the article of expense. The truth must be, that the
Governor has supposed that the presence of Congress in the State
has had an influence in encouraging the zeal and exertions of the
friends to federal government. Thus it appears that the whole
system of thinking adopted by the Governor has been manifestly
adverse to every thing connected with the federal government,
has led him to view all its concerns through a jaundiced medium.

To what can ail this be attributed ? To what can be ascribed
the regular and undeviating opposition on his part to the measure
devised by the joint council of America for strengthening and
confirming the Union ? How shall we explain the different and
inconsistent grounds of opposition taken at different periods?

630 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 32.

To me, my dear sir, the collective view of his conduct will admit
of no other supposition than that he has entertained a project
for erecting a system of State Power, unconnected with, and in
subversion of the Union. This is my firm and sincere belief;
founded upon a long and close attention to the secret and public
proceedings of his excellency. Some of the circumstances which
have led to it, I am not at liberty to disclose, because I could not
do it without a breach of confidence. Viewing in the light I do
the conduct of the Governor, I consider it as a sacred duty which I
owe to the country, to advise all those with whom I have any connec-
tion or intercourse, to promote a change. It is possible that the
Governor, finding the execution of his schemes impracticable,
may have abandoned them. But I conceive a man capable of
adopting such views as too dangerous to be trusted at the head
of the State. And I should hold it to be the extreme of creduli-
ty and weakness to confide in any assurances of amendment
which his friends, to answer a present purpose, may be induced
to give.

With unalterable regard,

I remain yours,

H. G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

LETTER XVI.

April 9th, 1789.

Dear Sir:

In mine of the 25th of February last, I observed that there
were reasons to conclude that the Governor's conduct immediate-
ly after the evacuation of this city, had been influenced by
condescensions of those who were at the time advocates for per-
secution, which in some measure involved him in their policy ;
and in confirmation of this idea, I mentioned some circum-

.Et. 32.] LETTERS OF H. G. 631

tances, as they then presented themselves to my memory, which
had attended the suppression of a proclamation issued by the
council for the temporary government of the southern district, in
consequence of certain irregularities committed in this city by
some of the persons alluded to. You have no doubt seen in
the newspapers Mr. Willet's statement of this affair, and the
correspondence which ensued between that gentleman and myself.

Pursuant to the assurance contained in my letter to Mr. AVil-
let, I shall now disclose to yon the result of the inquiries I have
made. It has turned out as was to have been apprehended.
Neither of the gentlemen to whom I have applied has a distinct
recollection of particulars. One of them indeed recollects little
more than that he was a good deal displeased with the transac-
tion. The other has a perfect remembrance of some circumstances
though not of all. Among other things, he well recollects that
he was much dissatisfied with the Governor's conduct in the af-
fair, and that the impression which he had at the time was, and
constantly since has been, that there had been on the part of the
Governor an undue and improper acquiescence, at least in the
conduct of the person concerned, in suspending the proclama-
tion. But what the facts or appearances were which produced
that impression, have now, in a great measure, escaped his mem-
ory.*

Thus stands the affair. The investigation has not weakened
in my mind the evidence that the circumstances attending the
suppression of the proclamation were evincive of condescensions on
the part of Hie Governor towards the advocates for persecution, at the
period in question, which in some measure involved him in their
policy.

This, by reference to my letter, you will perceive was the sole
purpose for which the transaction was quoted. I do not insist
that the particulars as first stated are accurate. You will ob-
serve they are stated with hesitation and uncertainty ; but I feel

* Mr. Wilkt. by applying to the printer, may satisfy himself of the fairness of
this representation and of the respectability of the authority on which it is founded.

632 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

an entire conviction that the aggregate complexion of the affair
was such as I have supposed it to be.

I remain with sincere regard,

Dear Sir,
Your very humble servant,

H.G.

To , Esq., Suffolk County.

ADDRESS TO THE PUBLIC CREDITORS.

BY A FRIEND.

September 1, 1790.

It is probable that many of you are not sufficiently apprised
of the advantages of your own situation, and that for want of
judging rightly of it, and of your future prospects, you may be
tempted to part with your securities much below their true value,
and considerably below what it is probable they will sell for in
eight or nine months from this time.

To guard you against an unnecessary sacrifice of your inter-
ests by a precipitate sale, I will now state to you, in a plain and
concise way, what has been done for you in the course of the
last session of Congress, and what you may reasonably expect.

Effectual provision has been made for actually paying you
six per cent, yearly, on two-thirds of the principal of your debt,
that is four per cent, on the whole amount of your principal. And
at the end of ten years you are to receive six per cent, yearly, on
the remaining third of your principal, that is, two per cent, more
on the whole of your principal. And like effectual provision has
been made for actually paying you three per cent, yearly, on
whatever arrears of interest may be due to you on your prin-
cipal. For this interest you are not even to wait to the end of a
year, but you are to receive it in quarter-yearly payments, that
is to say one-fourth part at the end of every three months ; and
it is to be paid to you not in new certificates, or paper money,

Mt. 33.J ADDRESS TO PUBLIC CREDITORS. 633

but in actual gold and silver. To secure this to you, the duties
which have been laid on goods imported, and on the tonnage of
ships or vessels (and which there is every reason, from the ex-
perience we have had, to believe will be sufficient), are absolute-
ly mortgaged to you, till the whole of your debt is discharged. You
will not have to depend, as under most of the State governments,
upon a provision from year to year, with an entire uncertainty
whether it would be continued, and with many examples of fickle-
ness and change ; but you will have to depend on a permanent
provision made once for all, for the sacredness of which the faith,
not of a single State, but of all the States, is solemnly bound to
you, and which cannot be undone or altered, without the concur-
rence of three different branches of the government — the House
of Representatives, the Senate, and the President of the United
States. It cannot be supposed that if one of the two branches
of Congress should hereafter be disposed to do so disgraceful and
ruinous a thing, as to repeal a law on which the credit of the
government was at stake, that the other branch would be willing
to concur in so pernicious a measure; or if both should be so un-
wise and dishonest, that the President of the United States
would give his assent to it, or if he assented, that two-thirds of
both Houses of Congress would be inclined to persist in spite of
his disapprobation. Whoever considers the nature of our gov-
ernment with discernment, will see, that though obstacles and delays
will frequently stand in the way of the adoption of good mea-
sures, yet, when once adopted, they are likely to be stable and
permanent. It will be far more difficult to undo than to do.

To destroy your confidence in future, there are too many
publications, which represent to you that Congress have, by their
late proceedings, violated their past engagements, and that you
can place no greater reliance upon those they now make than
those they have heretofore made. Whether representations like
these proceed from a sincere opinion in persons, who have not
accurately considered the matter, or from those who wish to de-
preciate the government, or from those who wish to buy securi-
ties cheap, or from all these descriptions of persons, I cannot
say ; but from whatever source they proceed, they are certainly
not candid nor just.

G34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

Congress, it is true, submit to your consideration some alter-
ations in the nature of your claims upon the government, for cer-
tain equivalents which they hold out to you, and of which you
are to judge. A principal object they have in doing this is, to
obtain a suspension of the payment of one-third of the interest,
to which you are entitled for ten years, in order to avoid the ne-
cessity of burthening the community, or carrying the taxation
to objects which might be displeasing to them. And you cannot
wonder that a government so lately formed, and not without
considerable opposition, should be cautious in this respect.

But whether you will accept the terms offered to you is cer-
tainly left to your own choice. There is not a syllable in the
Law that obliges you to do it. On the contrary, there is in it an
express ratification of your former contracts ; and to remove all
possibility of future cavil about the true import or obligation, all
questions of discrimination and the like, new titles are offered
to you of the like import in substance with your old ones. And
your rights are thus established, and their meaning defined, so as
to render their future operation, under the sanction of the Con-
stitution, unequivocal. They are not only not violated, but if
possible they have received additional strength, and have become
still more inviolable.

So far is there from being any thing compulsory, in the acts
of the government in the case, that those of you, who do not
choose to subscribe to the new terms, are to receive during the time
allotted for determining upon them, exactly as much as those
who do subscribe. And the faith of the government remains
pledged to you to fulfil its engagements, which must be perform-
ed, as fast as its resources can be brought into action for the pur-
pose. Your only security before the late arrangement was the
faith of government. There were no funds pledged to you which
have been taken away. You have still the faith of government
upon a renewed assurance as your pledge, and while you are de-
liberating on the new proposals you are to receive a payment
on account.

You are therefore to decide according to your own judgment,
whether an acceptance of the new terms, under all their circum-

JEt. 33.] ADDRESS TO PUBLIC CREDITORS. 635

stances, are preferable or not to a dependence on the future re-
sources of the country for more. This is a question of prudent
calculation, which you are at liberty to determine as you please.

Whence it is evident, that whatever other objections may be
against the propriety of the provision which has been made, for
the public debt, the charge of a breach of contract is not well
founded.

The better to form a comparison between the terms proposed,
and those of your former contract, it may be well to recollect
that the latter will be satisfied by a provision, annually made, for
paying you six per cent. Whatever the policy of the govern-
ment may hereafter dictate, there is nothing in the existing con-
tract that calls for a permanent appropriation of funds. Such a
permanent appropriation, however, forms a part of the new loans,
and will be of the essence of the new contract.

These remarks are intended to satisfy you, that there is no
cause, from any thing that has happened, for a diminution, but
on the contrary much reason for an increase of your confidence
in the property you possess, as holders of the public debt.

I return to the subject of the value of your securities. Their
present price, if compared with that at which they were current
before the establishment of the new Constitution, will be deemed
to be high, and is as great as at this time could reasonably have
been expected ; but compared with their true value, and the so-
lidity of the footing on which they stand, is still far too low.
The rise which has already taken place is an earnest to you of
their probable future rise. Such of you who do not incline to be
permanent holders, will at least do well to postpone a sale till
after March, when the first payment of interest is to be made.
The effect of this on the price of securities must undoubtedly
be very favorable, and you may then calculate on a better
market.

The holders of State securities have still stronger reasons for
keeping those they have, the price of which, in most of the
States, is out of all proportion lower than that of the present se-
curities of the United States, and must, in all probability, un-
dergo a considerable change for the better, as soon as funds are

636 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 33.

actually appropriated for them, which is not now the case, but
which must of course be so at the ensuing session of December.
The present debt of the United States having been provided for
out of the duties on imposts and tonnage only, seems to leave no
doubt of the facility of devising the means of providing for the
amount which has been assumed of the State debts.

VINDICATION OF THE FUNDING SYSTEM.

NUMBER ONE.

1 1.

It was to have been foreseen, that though the virtuous part
of those who were opposed to the present Constitution of the
United States, while in deliberation before the people, would
yield to the evidence which experience would afford of its useful-
ness and safety, there were, of a certain character, opponents
who, as happens in all great political questions, would always re-
main incurably hostile to it; that in the course of its adminis-
tration, its greatest merits would be in the eyes of such men its
greatest blemishes, its most brilliant successes to them occasions
of bitter chagrin and envious detraction; its slightest mis-
managements subjects of malignant exaggeration; its most
trivial misfortunes the welcome topics of virulent accusation and
insidious misrepresentation.

With some men, the hardest thing to forgive is the demon-
stration of their errors, the manifestation that they are not infal-
lible. Mortified vanity is one of the most corroding emotions
of the human mind; one of the most unextinguishable sources
of animosity and hatred.

It was equally to have been foreseen, that personal disappoint-
ments would be likely to alienate from the government some in-
dividuals who had at first advocated its adoption, perhaps from
motives not the most patriotic or commendable, — that personal
rivalships and competitions would throw others into an op-

jEt. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 637

position to its measures, without much regard to their intrinsic
merits or demerits, and that a third class would embrace the path
of opposition as the supposed road to popularity and preferment;
raising upon every colorable pretext the cry of danger to liberty ;
endeavoring to disseminate among the people false terrors and
ill-grounded alarms.

Phenomena like these have deformed the political horizon,
and testified the depravity of mankind in all countries and at
all times.

It was likewise to have been expected among the well-mean-
ing friends of the government, there would be a part competent
to the proper management of the affairs of the Union, who,
sensible from experience of the insufficiency of the former sys-
tem, gave their assent to the substitute offered to their choice,
rather from general impressions of the necessity of a change, than
from an accurate view of the necessary compass of the authorities
which ought to constitute it.

When they came to witness the exercise of those authorities
upon a scale more comprehensive than they had contemplated,
and to hear the incendiary comments of those who will ever be
on the watch for pretexts to brand the proceedings of the govern-
ment with imputations of usurpation and tyranny ; and the fac-
tious and indiscreet clamors of those who, in and out of the legis-
lature, with too much levity, torture the Constitution into objec-
tions to measures which they deem inexpedient; — it was to have
been expected, I say, that some such men might be carried away by
transient anxieties and apprehensions, and might for a moment
add weight to an opposition which could not fail to grow out of
other causes, and the real objects of which they would abhor.

There is yet another class of men, who, in all the stages of our
republican system, either from desperate circumstances, or irregu-
lar ambition, or a mixture of both, will labor incessantly to keep
the government in a troubled and unsettled state ; to sow dis-
quietudes in the minds of the people, and to promote confusion
and change. Every republic at all times has its Catilines and its
Caesars.

Men of this stamp, while in their hearts they scoff at the

638 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

principles of liberty, while in their real characters they are arbi-
trary, persecuting, and intolerant, are in all their harangues and
professions the most zealous ; nay, if they are to be believed, the
only friends to liberty. Mercenary and corrupt themselves, they
are continually making a parade of their purity and disinterest-
edness, and heaping upon others charges of peculation and cor-
ruption. Extravagant and dissipated in their own affairs, they
are always prating about public economy, and railing at the gov-
ernment for its pretended profusion. Conscious that as long as
the confidence of the people shall be maintained in their tried
and faithful servants, in men of real integrity and patriotism,
their ambitious projects can never succeed, they leave no artifice
unessayed, they spare no pains to destroy that confidence, and
blacken the characters that stand in their way.

Convinced that as long as order and system in the public
affairs can be maintained, their schemes can never be realized,
they are constantly representing the means of that order and sys-
tem as chains forged for the people. Themselves the only plot-
ters and conspirators, they are for ever spreading tales of plots and
conspiracies; always talking of the republican cause, and mean-
ing nothing but the cause of themselves and their party ; virtue
and liberty constantly on their lips, fraud, usurpation, and
tyranny in their hearts.

There is yet another class of opponents to the government and
its administration, who are of too much consequence not to be
mentioned : a sect of political doctors ; a kind of Popes in gov-
ernment; standards of political orthodoxy, who brand with,
heresy all opinions but their own ; men of sublimated imagina-
tions and weak judgments ; pretenders to profound knowledge
yet ignorant of the most 'useful of all sciences — the science of
human nature ; men who dignify themselves with the appellation
of philosophers, yet are destitute of the first elements of true phi-
losophy ; lovers of paradoxes ; men who maintain expressly that
religion is not necessary to society, and very nearly that govern-
ment itself is a nuisance ; that priests and clergymen of all de-
scriptions are worse than useless. Such men, the ridicule of
any cause that they espouse, and the best witnesses to the good-

jEt. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 639

ness of that which they oppose, have no small share in the
clamors which are raised, and in the dissatisfactions which are
excited.

While the real object of these clamors, with the persons most
active in propagating them, is opposition to the administration
of it ; while they are straining every nerve to render it odious,
they are profuse in their professions of attachment to it. To op-
pose avowedly the icork of the people would be too barefaced. It
would not accord with that system of treacherous flattery, which
is the usual engine of these pretended " friends," but real be-
trayers of the people.

Circumstances require that the mode of attack be changed.
The government is to be good, if not excellent, but its adminis-
tration is to be execrable, — detestable, — a mere sink of corrup-
tion ; a deep-laid plan to overturn the republican system of the
country.

Suspicions of the most flagitious prostitution and corruption
in office; of improper connections with brokers and speculators
to fleece the commmunity ; of the horrid depravity of promoting
wars, and the shedding of human blood, for*the sake of sharing
collusively the emoluments of lucrative contracts ; suspicions like
these, are, if possible, to be thrown upon men, the whole tenor
of whose lives gives the lie to them ; who, before they came into
office, were never either land-jobbers, or stock-jobbers, or job-
bers of any other kind ; who can appeal to their fellow-citizens of
every other party and description to attest, that their reputations
for probity are unsullied ; that their conduct in all pecuniary
concerns has been nicely correct, and even exemplarily disin-
terested ; who, it is notorious, have sacrified, and are sacrificing
the interests of their families to their public zeal ; who, whenever
the necessity of resisting the machinations of the enemies of the
public quiet will permit them to retire, will retire poorer
than they came into office, and will have to resume under nu-
merous disadvantages the pursuits which they before followed
under every advantage. Shame, where is thy blush ? If detrac-
tion so malignant as this can affront the public ear, Integrity,
where is thy shield — where thy reward — if the poisonous breath

640 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

of an unprincipled cabal can pollute thy good name which thou
incessantly toiled to deserve.

People of America, can ye be deceived by arts like these ?
Will ye suffer yourselves to be cheated out of your confidence in
men who deserve it most ? Will ye be the dupes of hypocritical
pretenders?

Think for yourselves. Look around you. Consult your own
experience. If any of you have doubts, listen calmly and dispas-
sionately to the arguments and facts which, in the course of the
following numbers, shall be opposed to the suggestions which
would persuade you that the administration of your government
has been in the aggregate weak or wicked, or both.

NUMBER TWO.

Of all the measures of the government, that which has been
most bitterly inveighed against is the Funding System, contained
in the act making provision for the debt of the United States.
As well for this reason, as on account of its superior importance,
the objections which have been made to it are entitled to an ex-
amination in the first place.

It is a curious phenomenon in political history (not easy to
be paralleled), that a measure which has elevated the credit of
the country from a state of absolute prostration to a state of ex-
alted pre-eminence, should bring upon the authors of it obloquy
and reproach.

It is certainly what, in the ordinary course of human affairs,
they could not have anticipated. They are not here chargeable
with arrogance, if they indulged from it the hope of credit and
applause ; and if the clamors which have been raised have truly
proceeded, as the clamorers assure us, from patriotic motives, it
must be confessed that they have the additional merit of nov-
elty and singularity.

There must be something original in the passions as well as

JEr. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 641

in the ideas of the sect to which they are attributable. It will
be hardly possible not to believe, that some mysterious work of
political regeneration has begun to make its way in the world,
and that all those who have not been the subjects of it are in a
state of pitiable darkness and error.

The two first points which, in considering the funding sys-
tem, present themselves to attention, are the existence and the
composition of the debt funded.

A person who, unacquainted with the fact, should learn the
history of our debt from the declamations with which certain
newspapers are perpetually charged, would be led to suppose,
that it is the mere creature of the present government for the pur-
pose of burthening the people with taxes, and producing an arti-
ficial and corrupt influence over them ; he would, at least, take it
for granted, that it had been contracted in the pursuit of some
wanton or vain project of ambition or glory ; he would scarcely
be able to conceive, that every part of it was the relict of a war
which had given independence, and preserved liberty to the
country; that the present government found it as it is, in point
of magnitude (except as to the diminutions made by itself), and
has done nothing more than to bring under a regular regimen
and provision what was before a scattered and heterogeneous
mass.

And yet this is the simple and exact state of the business.
The whole of the debt embraced by the provisions of the funding
system consisted of the unextinguished principal and arrears of
interest of the debt which had been contracted by the United
States in the course of the late war with Great Britain, and which
remained uncancelled, and the principal and arrears of interest of
the separate debts of the respective States contracted during the
same period, which remained outstanding and unsatisfied, relating
to services and supplies for carrying on the war. Nothing more
was done by that system, than to incorporate these two species
of debt into the mass, and to make for the whole one general,
comprehensive provision.

There is, therefore, no arithmetic, no logic, by which it can
be shown that the funding system has augmented the aggregate
F 41

642 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34.

*lil . t The sum total is manifestly the same;

though the parts which were before divided arc now united.

There is, consequently, no color for an assertion, that the sys-
tem in question either created any new debt, or made any addi-
tion to the old.

And it follows, that the collective burthen upon the people
of the United States must have been as great wit/tout as with the
union of the different portions and descriptions of the debt. The
only difference can be, that without it that burthen would have
been otherwise distributed, and would have fallen with unequal
weight, instead of being equalty borne as it now is.

These conclusions which have been drawn respecting the
non-increase of the debt, proceed upon the presumption that
every part of the public debt, as well that of the States individu-
ally as that of the United States, was to have been honestly paid.

If there is any fallacy in this supposition, the inferences may
be erroneous, but the error would imply the disgrace of the
United States, or parts of them — a disgrace from which every
man of true honor and genuine patriotism will be happy to see
them rescued.

AV hen Ave hear the epithets, " vile matter, " " corrupt mass,"
bestowed upon the public debt, and the owners of it indiscrimi-
nate^ maligned as the harpies and vultures of the community,
there is ground to suspect that those who hold the language,
though they may not dare to avow it, contemplate a more summary
process for getting rid of debts than that of paying them. Charity
itself cannot avoid concluding from the language and conduct of
some men (and some of them of no inconsiderable importance),
that in their vocabularies creditoi* and enemy are synonjmious
terms, and that they have a laudable antipathy against every
man to whom they owe money, either as individuals or as mem-
bers of the society.

It has been said, that the sum of the debt to be ultimately
provided for has been artificially increased by the plan for the
settlement of accounts between the United States and individual
States. This point will most properly be the subject of a dis-
tinct examination, as the act which settles the accounts is a dis-

.'F.t. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 643

tinct one from that which, establishes the funding system. It
will appear, upon examination, that there is no foundation for
the assertion, and, moreover, that the plan which has been adopted
by the present government for the settlement of the accounts is
essentially a recapitulation of that which was adopted under the
confederation, and which established principles which were not
only equitable in themselves, but could not have been reversed
without an infraction of the public faith.

NUMBER THREE.

My last number contained a concise and simple statement of
facts tending to show, that the public debt was neither created
nor increased by the funding system, and, consequently, that it
is not responsible either for the existence or the magnitude of the
debt.

It will be proper next to examine the allegations which Lave
been made of a contrary tendency.

In the first place, it is asserted, that the debt is greater than
it ought to be, because, from the state of depreciation in which
the government found it, a much less provision for it than that
which was made might have sufficed. A saving of nearly one-
half, it is said, might have been made by providing for it in the
hands of alienees, at least at 8s. or 10s. in the pound, who, having
come by it at a much less rate, would have been well compen-
sated by such a provision.

To a man who entertains correct notions of public faith, and
who feels as he ought to feel for the reputation and dignity of
the country, it is mortifying to reflect that there are partis
enough of such a doctrine to render it worth the while to combat
it. It is still more mortifying to know that in that class are
comprehended some men who are in other respects sober-minded
and upright, friends to order, and strenuous a Ivocates for the
rights of property.

644 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 34*

In reasoning upon all subjects, it is necessary to take, as a
point of departure, some principle in which reasonable and sound
minds will agree. Without this there can be no argument, no
conclusion, in moral or political more than in physical or mathe-
matical disquisitions.

The principle which shall be assumed here is this, that the
established rules of morality and justice are applicable to nations as
well as to individuals ; that the former as well as the latter are
bound to keep their promises ; to fulfil their engagements to respect the
rights of property which others have acquired under contracts with
them. Without this there is an end of all distinct ideas of right
or wrong, justice or injustice, in relation to society or govern-
ment. There can be no such thing as rights, no such thing as
property or liberty ; all the boasted advantages of a constitution
of government vanish into air. Every thing must float on
the variable and vague opinions of the governing party, of whom-
soever composed.

To this it may be answered, that the doctrine, as a general
one, is true, but that there are certain great cases which operate
as exceptions to the rule, and in which the public good may de-
mand and justify a departure from it.

It shall not be denied that there are such cases ; but as the
admission of them is one of the most common as well as the most
fruitful sources of error and abuse, it is of the greatest importance
that just ideas should be formed of their true nature, foundation
and extent. To minds which are either depraved or feeble, or
under the influence of any particular passion or prejudice, it is
enough that cases are only attended with some extraordinary cir-
cumstances to induce their being considered as among the excep-
tions. Convenience is with them a substitute for necessity, and
some temporary, partial advantage is an equivalent for a funda-
mental and permanent interest of society. We have too often
seen in the United States examples of this species of levity. The
treaties of the United States, the sacred rights of private property,
have been too frequently sported with, from a too great facility in
admitting exceptions to the maxims of public faith and the gen-
eral rules of property. A desire to escape from this evil was a

Mt. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 645

principal cause of the union which took place among good men
to establish the national government ; and it behoved its friends
to have been particularly cautious how they set an example of
equal relaxation in the practice of that very government.

The characteristics of the only admissible exceptions to the
principle that has been assumed, are — 1st. Necessity. 2d.
There being some intrinsic and inherent quality in the thing
which is to constitute the exception, contrary to the social order
and to the permanent good of society.

Necessity is admitted in all moral reasoning as an exception
to general rules. It is of two kinds , as applied to nations —
where there is want of ability to perform a duty, and then it is
involuntary ; and where the general rule cannot be observed with-
out some manifest and great national calamity.

If from extraordinary circumstances a nation is disabled from
performing its stipulations, or its duty in any other respect, it is
then excusable on the score of inability. But the inability must
be a real, not a pretended one ; one that has been experimentally
ascertained, or that can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of all
honest and discerning men. And the deviation ought to be as
small as possible ; all that is practicable ought to be done.

A nation is alike excusable in certain extraordinary cases for
not observing a right in performing a duty, if the one or the
other would involve a manifest and great national calamity. But
here, also, an extreme case is intended ; the calamity to be avoid-
ed must not only be evident and considerable — it must be such
an one as is like to prove fatal to the nation, as threatens its ex-
istence, or at least its permanent welfare.

War, for instance, is almost always a national calamity, of a
serious kind ; but it ought often to be encountered in protec-
tion even of a part of the community injured or annoyed ; or in
performance of the condition of a defensive alliance with some
other nation.

But if such special circumstances exist in either case, that
the going to war would eminently endanger the existence
or permanent welfare of the nation, it may excusably be for-
borne.

646 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 34.

Of the second class of exceptions, the case of certain foedal
rights, which once oppressed all Europe, and still oppress too great
a part of it, may serve as an example ; rights which made abso-
lute slaves of a part of the community, and rendered the condi-
tion of the greatest proportion of the remainder not much more
eligible.

These rights, though involving that of property, being con-
trary to the social order, and to the permanent welfare of society,
were justifiably abolished in the instances, in which abolitions
have taken place, and may be abolished in all the remaining ves-
tiges.

Wherever, indeed, a right of property is infringed for the
general good, if the nature of the case admits of compensation
it ought to be made ; but if compensation be impracticable, that
impracticability ought not to be an obstacle to a clearly essential
reform.

In what has been said, the cases of exception have been laid
down as broad as they ought to be. They are cases of extremi-
ty— where there is a palpable necessity — where some great and
permanent national evil is to be avoided — where some great and
permanent national good is to be obtained. It must not be to
avoid a temporary burthen or inconvenience — to get rid of a par-
ticular, though a considerable evil, or to secure a partial ad-
vantage. A relaxation of this kind would tend to dissolve all
social obligations — to render all rights precarious, and to intro-
duce a general dissoluteness and corruption of morals.

A single glance will suffice to convince that the case of the
debt of the United States was not one of those cases which could
justify a clear infraction of the fundamental rules of good faith,
and a clear invasion of rights of property acquired under the
most unequivocal national stipulations.

If there was any doubt before, the real facility with which
a provision for the debt has been made removes it, a provision
which touches no internal source of revenue but the single
article of distilled spirits, and lays upon that a very moderate
duty.

But a history of the real state of the debt when it was taken

,Et. 34. j FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED. 64?

up by the government will put -the matter out of all doubt.
This shall constitute the subject of my next number.

NUMBER FOUR.

The debt proper, or the original debt of the United States, in
its primary sense, may be classed under four general heads ; 1st,
the old emissions of Continental money ; 2d, the Loan Office
debt, contracted for moneys lent to the government; 3d, the
Army debt, contracted for the pay and commutation of the army ;
4th, the debt of the five great Departments, as they are called in
the resolution of Congress, being for services and supplies in the
Marine Department, the Quartermaster's, Commissary's, Clothing,
and Hospital Departments.

Emanations from these were the registered debt, so denomi-
nated from new kinds of certificates issued by the Eegister of
the Treasury in lieu of the former evidences. Indents of inter-
est being a species of paper payable to bearer, which, by differ-
ent resolutions of Congress, were issued on account of arrears
of interest on the old debt. The new emission money is not
added to the enumeration, because it was issued upon funds of the
respective States, with only a guarantee of the United States, and
falls, perhaps, most properly, in the class of State debts.

Of this original debt, it appears by a statement of the Eegis-
ter of the Treasury, published in not less than i
in its first concoction, belonged to citizens of the States from
Pennsylvania to New Hampshire inclusively ; the remaining
belonging to States from Maryland to Georgia inclusively, in
nearly the following proportions :

to Maryland, to Virginia, to

North Carolina, to South Carolina, to

Georgia, The reasons of this state of things are

obvious. Until the the principal theatre of the

war had been in the States from Pennsylvania north; and after

648 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 34.

that period, to the close of it, the principal part of the enemy's
force remained stationary at New-York, which obliged to the
keeping up in the same quarter large bodies of troops till the
termination of the war.

The natural consequence of this state of things was, that a
very large proportion of the means for carrying on the war — men,
money, and other supplies — were drawn from the States compre-
hended in the first division. They indeed possessed greater com-
parative resources than the more southern States, and with only
the same degree of zeal could furnish more to the common cause.
Obvious causes always conspire to occasion larger aids to be
drawn from the vicinity of the war than from more distant
parts of the country, and the main dependence of the United
States being credit, a large debt was created in the scene from
which the principal supplies came.

The use of this statement of the original distribution of the
debt will appear hereafter.

A leading character of every part of the debt is, that it was
in its origin made alienable. It was payable to the holder, either
in capacity of assignee or bearer, far the greatest part of the lat-
ter description. The contract, therefore, was, in its very issue, a
contract between the government and the actual holder.

A considerable part of the debt was consequently alienated
by the first proprietors at different periods, from its commence-
ment down to the time of passing the funding act.

Bat this has been much exaggerated, both as to the quantity
alienated and as to the rates of alienation. The declamations on
the subject have constantly represented far the greatest part of
the debt in the hands of alienees, and have taken the lowest price
at which it ever was in the market as the common standard of
the alienation. The changes have been rung upon two shillings
and sixpence in the pound, in all the arguments which have ad-
vocated a violation of the rights of the alienees.

Neither the first nor the last supposition is true. As to the
first point, namely, the quantity of the debt alienated, there are
no documents by which it can be satisfactorily ascertained, which
o course give full scope to imagination.

jEt. 34.] FUNDING SYSTEM VINDICATED.
But there is an important fact which affords strong evidence
that the quantity has always been much less considerable than
has been supposed.

In the year the State of New- York passed a law per-

mitting the holders of Continental securities, to bring them in
and receive in exchange for them State securities upon certain
conditions, which were generally deemed for the advantage of
the holders to accept. The same arrangement embraced an ex-
change of old State securities for new.

In the event of this exchange, which was completed by the
, it appeared that about of the debt re-

mained in the hands of the original proprietors.
Alienations after this period. * *

It may be stated as a fact, that there always has prevailed in
the States north of New-York, a more firm confidence in an
eventual provision for the debt than existed in that State ; and
it may be inferred that the alienation was still less in those States
than in the State of New- York.

In Jersey and Pennsylvania, it is probable that the aliena-
tions were not more considerable in their degree than in New-
York. In Maryland they may be supposed to have been still
less, on account of that State having made a better provision for
its debt than any other, and having included in it Continental
securities in the hands of its own citizens by an exchange of cer-
tificates.

It is probable from information, though not certainly known,
that a more considerable alienation in proportion had taken place in
the States south of Maryland. But making all due allowance for
this, and taking into the account that the principal part of the debt
was originally, owned from Pennsylvania north, the probability
still is, that the progress of alienation has been much less rapid than
has been conjectured. Nothing is more natural than a mistake
on this point. The dealers in the debt in the principal cities,
appeared to be continually engaged in buying and selling large
sums ; and it has not been their fault generally, to underrate the
extent of their dealings. Thence it came to be imagined that
the whole debt, or the greatest part of it, was in the market ;

650 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M-r.34.

whereas a small sum comparatively was sufficient to satisfy all
the appearances. Bandied incessantly from hand to hand, a few
hundred thousand dollars appeared like as many millions.

The best inquiries on the subject will lead to an opinion that
there never was, prior to the funding system, three millions of
dollars of floating debt in all the great stock markets of the
United States. And the whole sum which had been acquired by
foreigners, was about . From all which it is very questiona-
ble whether one-third of the debt in the hands of alienees at the
time when Congress began to deliberate concerning a provision
for it would not be an ample allowance.

Wit! i regard to the terms of alienation, they have varied from
20s. clown to 2s. 6d in the pound.

There are several considerable classes of alienees, who hold
the debt at full or high values :

I. Those who advanced moneys, or furnished supplies to pub-
lic officers upon loan-office certificates, issued to those officers in
their own names. An example of this exists in the cases of pur-
chases made during the war by public officers. Warrants from
the Treasury would frequently be drawn in their favor upon the
commissioners of loans, who would often furnish loan office certi-
ficates in their own names in payment of those warrants. For
these certificates the officers would sometimes procure the cur-
rent paper in exchange, and would transfer the certificates to
those who advanced the money. In other cases they would pay
for supplies in the certificates themselves, which they would in
like manner transfer. This is a very extensive case.

II. Those whose money has been placed in the funds by
trustees or agents, who took out certificates in their own names,
and afterwards assigned them to the true proprietors.

An instance of this was mentioned in the debates in Congress
on the subject of a discrimination between original and present
holders, and can be ascertained- by any one who will take the
pains to inquire. It was that of a Mr. Caldwell, a respectable cler-
gyman and zealous patriot in New Jersey, who acted for some
time during the war in the capacity of deputy quarter-master.
In that capacity he frequently had money to pay to individuals,

JEt. 35.] A X T 1 - 1) E P A MER. 6 5 1

which, at their desire, he would place in the loan-office for them,
take certificates in his own aame, and afterwards transfer them
to the persons whose money he had deposited. There arc like-
wise instances, not a few, of trustees and agents for absent per-
sons and minors, who placed the moneys of those whom they
represented in the loan-offices, took out certificates in their own
names, and afterwards transferred them to the parties entitled.

III. Those who, by laws of particular States, were compelled
to take certificates al the full value in payment of debts.

.V law of the State of New-York passed in the year
obliged all persons who had resided within the British lines dur-
ing the war, to receive, in satisfaction of their debts from those
who had been without the lines, certificates.

IV. Those who, at different periods, voluntarily received cer-
tificates in payment of debts. This, in some States, is a very ex-
tensive case. From the precarious situation in which all persons
were placed by the revolution, whose -property was merely per-
sonal, it was no uncommon thing for creditors to receive from
their debtors certificates in payment of debts ; and this was almost
always at high values.

u since the peace, compromises between creditors and
debtors, especially those whose fortunes had been injured by the
war, in which certificates were received at full value. — Ooetera
desunt.

Fur the Federal Gazette.

1702.
Russell, under an affected moderation, veils the most insidi-
ous and malignant d< ad slyly propagates the basest slan-
ders. This is evident from the following passage of his second
paper. After statin- a visionary and impracticable scheme for
avoiding a war with the Indians, he proceeds thus — " But, then,
how many officers had been wanting, how many lucrative con-
tracts would have been lost, and how great a waste of money

652 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mx. 35.

would have been prevented from flowing into the coffers of
those concerned in this business ?"

The plain inference from this is, that the public officer who
has an agency in making those contracts shares in the profit of
them, and that a part of the money which is expended flows into
his coffers. If this is not his meaning, then Eussell owes it to
himself and to justice to disavow the inference. If it is his
meaning, then he owes it to the public to answer the following
questions : —

Does he know by what public officer the contracts for sup-
plying the army are made ? Has he any ground to believe that
that officer ever advised a single step which has led to the pre-
sent Indian war ? Does he know what his official conduct has
been with regard to it ? Does he know what his private charac-
ter has been as to pecuniary affairs ? Is he acquainted with a
single fact, or even circumstance, which can justify a suspicion
that he has even been directly or indirectly interested in any
contract in which he has had an agency ?

Let him answer these questions, or otherwise assign the
grounds of his insinuation, or let him be despised as a wanton
calumniator.

Anti-defamer.

END OF VOL. VI.

OCT 2 7 1933


===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 7) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander07hami/worksofalexander07hami_djvu.txt

NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES

3 3433 08173703 7
HHMM

\A.

HAMILTON"- vr.jr.KS.

~ : " ::

THE DEATH LIST) OF A DAY.

JOHN CHURCH HAMILTON.
John Church Hamilton, a son of Alexander
Hamilton, tbe first Secretary of the Treasun r,of
the United States, died early yesterday mornm* in
the IStockton cottage, on Ocean-avenue, low
Branch He had heen failing from extreme old
So^veral months, hut the immediate cause
This death was a complication of Janndice and
^tarrh. Mr. Hamilton was horn in :™££*»
, in 1792, while his father was Secretary of the Trees
urv and was only 14 years old when the latter
^w?; "led in to*^^^*™
sequently ^entered tbe Lnned^ta^es A ^ y ^
S^^^HUon. Heroes jg^

ffie^^S hVSeJened JU position in
the Army and retired to. private e. t havinsr
apply himself to the R'actKe on the study

strong l^rary tastes d^yo^ mm ; fc

of history. with a view 10 w « -Memoirs

■Between 1834 and 18 10 he put is! en n« j_

of the Life of Alexanae. H.rn »™£ 4Yft down
r,ehS" ffloS the Sera Kstitution. Two
»v«r^P..ted ^kaM^ar.

J octavo. He aiso t>u »'=> „nmmi?nts which was
Federalist,'; ^Jthnote* and comments,^

I Vrtehl^to^ od n"oynsthoen 'economical subject's were
Hamilton s opinions ou judsre Lawrence.

i I^KrollerAh^SuS «en. Grant, and.

-^^^u|^mP,thies^^eOS

guished ^"W^^^^p^Jarf Cooper,] Its
tropol-^n^ uen you, Hono • L rfn8 u were tne

es»8,«I may be permitted to avow
act oi others. i i-iaj *{ century of

a trust, near -the close > oi : dth&

t e people of ^Slg'dluSiSr of John Cornelius

chant of this C, y^ u»hwgons are Gen. Schuyler

re'd with distinction in the Mex-

> in tbe war of the rebellion;

ilton, of the Supreme Court of

n G Hamilton, the consuming

-,f tvi ennsvlvania Railroad Company,

engineer of th j*™**™ oi Westchester County.

and Alexander HamiAOLO Major.Gen. Hal-

?»l Ld after Ms' death, Major-Gen. Geow
W^X™ Another is the wife of ex-Judge

£%£ wtl b/ffi toWitJ euro* u 12 M. to-

I morrow. ^

cnildren survive
Hamilton, who;
ican war and \
Judge Charles |

Wisconsin: Wi;
engineer of th

THE WORKS

OF

ALEXANDER HAMILTON

COMPRISING

HIS CORRESPONDENCE,

HIS POLITICAL AND OFFICIAL WEITINGS,

EXCLUSIVE OF THE FEDERALIST,

CIVIL AND MILITARY.

PUBLISHED FROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTS DEPOSITED IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

BY ORDER OP

THE JOINT LIBRARY COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.

• EDITED BV

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

AUTHOR OF "THE LIFE OF HAMILTON

VOL. VIL/<V^U i/N

NJEW-YORK

JOHN F TROW, PRINTER, 49 ANN-STREET

M.DCCC.LI.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1851, by

JOHN C. HAMILTON,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New-York.

[JEt. 35.

POLITICAL ESSAYS.

For the Gazette of the United States.

July 25. 1702.

Mr. Fenno,

The editor of the " National Gazette " receives a salary from
government.

Qaere. Whether this salary is paid him for translations, or for
publications, the design of which is, to vilify those to whom the
voice of the people has committed the administration of our public
affairs — to oppose the measures of government, and, by false in-
sinuations, to disturb the public peace ?

In common life it is thought ungrateful for a man to bite the
hand that puts bread in his mouth ; but if the man is hired to
do it, the case is altered.

T. L.

AN AMERICAN.

For the Gazette of the United States.

I.

August 4, 1792.

Mr. Fenno,

It was easy to foresee, when the hint appeared in your Ga-
zette of the 25th July, that the editor of the National Gazette

6 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

received a salary from the general government, that advantage
would be taken of its want of explicitness and particularity, to
make the circumstance matter of merit in Mr. Freneau, and an
argument of his independent disinterestedness. Such a turn of
the business cannot be permitted to succeed. It is now necessary
that the whole truth should be told, and that the real state of the
affair should be well understood.

Mr. Freneau, before he came to this city to conduct the Na-
tional Gazette, was employed by Childs and Swaine, printers of
the Daily Advertiser, in New-York, in the capacity of editor or
superintendent.

A paper more devoted to the views of a certain party, of
which Mr. Jefferson is the head, than any to be found in this
city, was wanted. Mr. Freneau was thought a fit instrument ; a
negotiation was opened with him which ended in the establish-
ment of the National Gazette, under his direction.

Mr. Freneau came here, at once editor of the National Ga-
zette, and clerk for foreign languages in the department of Mr.
Jefferson, Secretary of State; an experiment somewhat new in
the history of political manoeuvres in this country : a news-
paper instituted by a public officer, and the editor of it regularly
pensioned with the public money in the disposal of that officer ;
an example savoring not a little of that spirit, which, in the
enumeration of European abuses, is the continual theme of decla-
matory censure ; an example which could not have been set by
the head of any other department, without having long since
rung throughout the United States.

Mr. Freneau is not then, as he would have it supposed, the in-
dependent editor of a newspaper, who, though receiving a salary
from government, has firmness enough to expose its mal-admin-
istration : he is the faithful and devoted servant of the head of a
party, from whose hands he receives the boon. The whole com-
plexion of his paper exhibits a decisive internal evidence of the
influence of that patronage under which he acts.

Whether the services rendered by him are equivalent to the
compensation he receives, is best known to his employer and
himself; there is, however some room to doubt. It is well known

JEr. 35.] AN AMERICAN. 7

that his employer is, himself, well acquainted with the French
language, the only one of which Mr. Freneau is the translator,
and it may be a question how often his aid is necessary.

It is somewhat singular, too, that a man acquainted with but
one foreign language, engaged in an occupation which it may be
presumed, demands his whole time and attention— the editor of
a newspaper — should be the person selected as the clerk for
foreign languages in the department of the United States for
foreign affairs. Could no person be found acquainted with more
than one foreign language, and who in so confidential a trust could
have been regularly attached to, in the constant employ of the
department, and immediately under the eye of the head of it?

But it may be asked — is it possible that Mr. Jefferson, the
head of a principal department of the government, can be the
patron of a paper, the evident object of which is to decry the
government and its measures ? If he disapproves of the govern-
ment itself, and thinks it deserving of his opposition, can he re-
concile it to his own personal dignity, and the principles of pro-
bity, to hold an office under it, and employ the means of official
influence in that opposition ? If he disapproves of the leading
measures which have been adopted in the course of its adminis-
tration— can he reconcile it with the principles of delicacy and
propriety, to hold a place in that administration, and at the same
time to be instrumental in vilifying measures which have been
adopted by majorities of both branches of the legislature, and
sanctioned by the chief magistrate of the Union?

These questions would certainly be natural. An answer
might be left to the facts which establish the relation between the
Secretary of State and the editor of the National Gazette as the
text, and to the general tenor of that paper, as the commentary.
Let any intelligent man read the paper from the commencement of
it, and let him determine for himself whether it be not a paper
virulently hostile to the government and its measures. Let him
then ask himself whether, considering the connection which has
subsisted between the Secretary of State and the editor of that
paper, coeval with its first establishment, it be probable that the
complexion of the paper is contrary to the views of that officer.

8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. L^Et. 35

If he wishes for a confirmation of the inference which he
cannot fail to draw, as a probable one, let him be informed in ad
dition,

1st. That while the Constitution of the United States was de-
pending before the people of this country for their consideration
and decision, Mr. Jefferson, being in France, was opposed to it
in some of its most important features, and wrote his objections
to some of his friends in Virginia. That he at first went so far
as to discountenance its adoption, though he afterwards recom-
mended it, on the ground of expediency in certain contin-
gencies.

2d. That he is the declared opponent of almost all the im-
portant measures which have been devised by the government,
more especially the provision which has been made for the public
debt, the institution of the Bank of the United States, and such
other measures as relate to the public credit, and the finances of
the United States.

It is proper that these facts should be known, for if the peo-
ple of the United States believe, that their happiness and their
safety are connected with the existence and maintenance of an
efficient national or federal government ; if they continue to
think that which they have created and established worthy of
their confidence — if they are willing that the powers they have
granted to it should be exercised with sufficient latitude to at-
tain the ends they had in view in granting them, and to do the
essential business of the nation ; if they feel an honest pride in
seeing the credit of their country, so lately prostrate, elevated to
an equal station with that of any nation upon earth ; if they are
conscious that their own importance is increased by the increased
respectability of their country, which from an abject and degrad-
ed state, owing to the want of government, has, by the establish-
ment of a wise Constitution, and the measures which have been
pursued under it, become a theme for the praise and admiration
of mankind ; if they experience that their own situation is im-
proved and improving — that commerce and navigation have ad-
vanced, that manufactures are progressive — that agriculture is
thriving — that property is more secure than it was — industry more

Mr. 35.] AN AMERICAN. 9

certain of a real, not nominal reward — personal liberty perfectly
protected — that notwithstanding the unavoidable demands upon
them to satisfy the justice, retrieve the reputation, and answer
the exigencies of the country, they are neither less burthened
than they were, or more equal to the burthen they have to sus-
tain ; — if these are their opinions and their experience, let them
know and understand, that the sentiments of the officer who has
been mentioned — both as to the principles and the practice of the
Constitution which was framed by them, and has been adminis-
tered by their representatives, freely chosen — are essentially dif-
ferent from theirs.

If, on the contrary, the people of the United States are of
opinion, that they erred in adopting their present Constitution —
that it contains pernicious principles and dangerous powers —
that it has been administered injudiciously and wickedly— that
men whose abilities and patriotism were tried in the worst of
times, have entered into a league to deceive, defraud, and op-
press them ; that they are reaily oppressed and ruined, or in
imminent danger of being so; — if they think the preservation of
national Union a matter of no or small consequence ; if they
are willing to return to the situation from which they have es-
caped, and to strip the government of some of the most neces-
sary powers with which they have clothed it ; if they are de-
sirous that those which may be permitted to remain should be
frittered away by a narrow, timid, and feeble exercise of them ;
if they are disposed to see the national government transformed
into the skeleton of power; — if they are persuaded that nations
are under no ties of moral obligation — that public credit is use-
less, or something worse — that public debts may be paid or can-
celled at pleasure — that when a provision is not likely to be
made for them, the discontents to be expected from the omission
may honestly be transferred from a government able to vindi-
cate its rights to the breasts of individuals who may first be en-
couraged to become the substitutes to the original creditors and
may afterwards be defrauded without danger ;* — if to national

* Such was the advice given to Congress by Mr. Jefferson, when Minister Pie-

10 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

union, national respectability, public order, and public credit,
the}7 are willing to substitute national disunion, national insigni-
ficance, public disorder, and discredit, then let them unite their
acclamations and plaudits in favor of Mr. Jefferson ; let him be
the toast of every political club, and the theme of every popular
huzza; for to those points, without examining his motives, do
the real or pretended political tenets of that gentleman most
assuredly tend.

These strictures are made from a conviction that it is impor-
tant to the people to know the characters intrusted with their
public affairs.

As Mr. Jefferson is emulous of being the head of a party
whose politics have ever aimed at depressing the national autho-
rity, let him enjoy all the glory and all the advantage of it. But
let it at the same time be understood by those who are per-
suaded that the real and permanent welfare of the country is to
be promoted by other means, that such are the views by which
he is actuated.

An" American.

ii.

August 11, 1792.
Facts, Mr. Fenno, speak louder than words, and, under cer-
tain circumstances, louder than oaths. The editor of the Na-
tional Gazette must not think to swear away their efficacy. If
he is truly, as they announce, the pensioned tool of the public
character who has been named, no violation of truth in any
shape ought to astonish ; equivocations and mental reservations
are the too common refuge of minds struggling to escape from
disgraceful imputations.

nipotentiary to the court of France, respecting the debt due to the French nation.
The precise terms are not recollected, hut the substance may he depended upon.
The poor Hollanders were to be victims.

JEt. 35.]

AN AMK1UCAN. 11

It may be very true, in a literal sense, that no negotiation
was ever opened with Mr. Freneau by Thomas Jefferson, Secre-
tary of State, and yet it may be very certain, that a negotiation
was opened with him, directly or circuitously, by a particular
friend of that officer, and expectation given of his patronage and
encouragement.

It may be very true, in the same sense, that Mr. Freneau's
coming to the city of Philadelphia, as publisher of a newspaper,
was at no time urged, advised, or influenced, by the same officer,
and yet it may be equally a fact, that it was urged, advised, and
influenced by a friend of his, in concert with him, and to answer
his views, and with authority to engage his assistance and sup-
port. It may in the strictest sense be true, that Mr. Freneau's
coming to Philadelphia was his own voluntary act; and yet true
that he came from interested motives, and to do the work of a
party ; for a man acts not the less voluntarily because he yields
to considerations of interest. It may be even true, that the edi-
tor of the National Gazette was never either directed, controlled,
or attempted to be influenced in any manner, either by the Sec-
retary of State, or any of his friends ; and yet it may, in the
strongest sense, be true, that under the influence of the emolu-
ments received from that officer, he has acted in precise confor-
mity to his known principles and views.

As to the assertion, that not a single line in the National
Gazette was ever, directly or indirectly, written, dictated, or com-
posed for it, by the Secretary of State, it is a shocking instance
of rashness and levity. Unless Mr. Freneau be himself the au-
thor of every line which has been contained in every one of his
papers (a thing not to be believed), it is impossible that he can
know that none has ever been directly or indirectly written, dictated,
or composed j^r the officer in question. And if he had been as
scrupulous about an oath as he ought to have been, he never
could have sworn so positively as he has done, to a thing which
it was impossible for him to know; temerity like this would
invalidate his testimony in a court of justice, if he were even,
as he is not in the present case, a disinterested witness.

No, Mr. Freneau, this is not the way to exculpate yourself

12 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

before a judicious public, from the conclusions which are to be
drawn from the most convincing facts. Nor can it be believed,
from any thing that you have either sworn or said, that the
whole of what has been alleged is "a lie."

The material facts which have been alleged, and may be
added in confirmation, are either acknowledged, or such as you
dare not deny ; and they prove decisively your improper connec-
tion with the Secretary of State, and the influence of that con-
nection upon your press.

It is a fact which you have acknowledged, that you receive
a regular salary from the Secretary of State, as clerk in his de-
partment for foreign languages, while you pretend not to act in
any other capacity than that of translator of one foreign language.

It is a fact which you tacitly concede, that you came from
New-York, where you was in capacity of an editor or director of
a newspaper, to become in this city editor of the National Ga-
zette.

It is a fact which you dare not deny, that your appointment
as clerk for foreign languages, was cotemporary with or rather
antecedent to the commencement of your paper. The first num-
ber of your paper is dated 81st of October, 1791, your appoint-
ment was announced in the Daily Advertiser of October 26th,
1791 (a paper printed in New-York), in the following terms :
" We hear from Philadelphia that the Hon. Thomas Jefferson,
Esq., Secretary of State for the United States, has appointed
Captain Philip Freneau, Interpreter of the French language for
the Department of State."*

It is a fact, which the debates in the Virginia Convention
will testify, that Mr. Jefferson was in the origin opposed to the
present Constitution of the United States.

It is a fact known to every man who approaqjaes that officer
(for he takes no pains to conceal it, and will not thank you to
deny it), that he arraigns the principal measures of the govern-
ment, and it may be added, with indiscreet if not indecent warmth.

* It is believed that Mr. Freneau could throw light upon this question, by
naming the day when his salary commenced.

Mi. 35,]

AN AMERICAN. 13

It is a fact which results from the whole complexion of your
paper, that it is a paper intemperately devoted to the abuse of
the government, and all the conspicuous actors in it, except the
Secretary of State and his coadjutors, who are the constant
theme of your panegyric. Even the illustrious Patriot who pre-
sides at the head of the government, has not escaped your en-
venomed shafts.

And from these facts the inferences ivhich have been drawn are
irresistible.

The circumstances of your having come from another State
to set up and conduct a new paper ; the circumstance of the edi-
tor of that new paper being appointed a clerk in the Department
of State ; the coincidence in point of time of that appointment
with the commencement of your paper, or to speak more correctly,
its precedency — the conformity between the complexion of your
paper, and the known politics of the head of the department
who employed you — these circumstances, collectively, leave no
doubt of your true situation ; the conviction arising from them is
too strong to be weakened by any of those bold or even solemn
declarations, which are among the hackneyed tricks employed by
the purists in politics, of every country and age, to cheat the
people into a belief of their superior sanctity, integrity, and
virtue.

If you had been previously the conductor of a newspaper in
this city — if your appointment had been any considerable time
subsequent to the institution of your paper, there might have
been some room for subterfuge ; but as matters stand, you have
no possible escape.

The fact of the preliminary negotiation which brought you
to this city, is not material, when so many other facts presuppos-
ing it occur ; but even this, if the scruples of family connection,
or the dread of party resentment, docs not prevent the evidence
being brought forward, will be proved incontestably ; not, in-
deed, a negotiation in which Thomas Jefferson, Secretary of
State, was the immediate agent, but one carried on by a very
powerful, influential, and confidential friend and associate of that
gentleman.

14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J3t. 35.

That officer has had too considerable a part of his political
education amidst the intrigues of an European Court, to hazard
a direct personal commitment in such a case ; he knows how to
put a man in a situation calculated to produce all the effects he
desires, without the gross and awkward formality of telling him,
" Sir, I mean to hire you for the purpose."

It is impossible for a correct mind not to pronounce, that, in
the abstract, a connection like that which is acknowledged to sub-
sist between you and Mr. Jefferson, between the editor of a news-
paper, and the head of a department of the government, is inde-
licate and unfit, and consequently of a nature to justify suspicion.

A connection of that sort in a free country, is a pernicious
precedent, inconsistent with those pretensions to extraordinary
republican purity, of which so suspicious a parade is upon every
occasion exhibited.

The apology you attempt for it is ill-founded and inadmissible ;
-there is no law, which annexes a particular salary to the clerk-
ship in question — the appointment is under the general authority
given to the head of the department, to appoint clerks with sa-
laries not exceeding aggregatively five hundred dollars to each —
there is therefore no restriction to the sum you mention to in-
duce, as matter of necessity, the employment of a person engaged
in other occupations — and not ordinarily and regularly attached
to the department. Five hundred dollars, or even more, might
be legally given, for a clerk, competent to the duty, and if it
was not sufficient wholly to employ him, his surplus time might
be dedicated to other business of the department — nor could
there have been any mighty difficulty in finding a clerk so qua-
lified.

But if there had been such difficulty, some other character
should undoubtedly have been found — the precedent of such a
species of influence erected over the press, ought to have been
avoided. This is so obvious, that the not having avoided it is a
proof of sinister design.

The employment of Mr. Pintard, by the Secretary of State,
was a natural consequence of particular situation. Mr. Pintard,
if I am rightly informed, had been employed in the same capa-

jEt. 35.] AN AMERICAN,
city under the old government, and it was natural enough to con-
tinue him in the occupation and employment; but Mr. Pintard
was not the printer of a Gazette.

These strictures, though involving Mr. Freneau, it shall be
confessed have been drawn forth principally with a view to a
character of greater importance in the community — they aim at
explaining a public officer, who has too little scrupled to embar-
rass and disparage the government of which he is a member —
and who has been the prompter, open or secret, of unwarrantable
aspersions on men, who so long as actions, not merely profes-
sions, shall be the true test of patriotism and integrity, need never
decline a comparison with him, of their titles to the public es-
teem.

An American.

hi.

August 18th, 1792.

The charges which have been brought against "the editor of
the National Gazette," as he himself states them to be, are no
otherwise personal charges, than as they designate the person
against whom they are made.

In their application to Mr. Freneau, they affect him solely in
his capacity of editor of a public paper (which may justly be
considered as a public capacity), and in relation to matters of
public or national concern. It is therefore a mere subterfuge to
call them personal charges, and then to say they shall not be an-
swered, unless the author of them will come forward to support
them. It was easily anticipated that he might have good reasons
for not discovering himself, at least at the call of Mr. Freneau —
and it was necessary for him to find a shelter. What else could
he do? The charges brought against him are substantiated by
facts, some of them acknowledged by himself, others proved by
a reference to public documents, and to his own paper, others 0£
general notoriety.

16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ' [Mt. 35.

The inferences from these facts are the only things which re-
main for discussion, and these so naturally flow from the premises,
that they defy the arts of sophistry to obscure them. The expe-
dient, however, which has been adopted comes rather late, con-
sidering that Mr. Freneau began to answer even under the
solemnities of an oath.

An American.

PAYMENTS OF PUBLIC DEBT.

August 29th, 1792.
The following authentic documents respecting the progress
which has been made by the present Government of the United
States, towards extinguishing the Debts contracted under the
former Government, will, it is presumed, be very acceptable to
the people of the United States ; and it is hoped that the dif-
erent editors of newspapers will give the information the general
circulation which its importance merits.

T.

Treasury Department, Register's Office, 24th August, 1792.
Sir:

I have the honor to inclose an abstract and statement of the debt incurred by the
late Government, and which has been paid off from the funds of the present Govern-
ment, amounting to one million eight hundred and forty-five thousand two hundred
and seventeen dollars forty-two cents ; but this sum will be increased, when the
balance of three hundred and ninety seven thousand twenty-four dollars thirteen
cents, remaining to be appropriated to the farther purchase of the public debt, shall
be applied, and which more particularly appears by the subjoined statement.
With every sentiment of the highest respect,
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your most obedient and most humble servant,

Joseph Nourse, Register.
Hon. Alexander Hamilton, Secretary of the Treasury.

jEt. 35.] PAYMENTS OF PUBLIC DEBT. 17

II.

Statement of the balance which remains to be applied to the further purchase of the Pub-
lic Debt.
By the Act passed 12th August, 1790, making provision for the reduction of the
Public Debt. Section 2nd. it is enacted, That all such surplus of the product of the
duties arising from impost and tonnage to 31st December, 1790, after satisfying the
several appropriations therein specified, shall be applied to the purchase of the
public debt.

The product of said duties were .... $3 026,070 65 J
The total appropriations were 1 687,194 81

The surplus fund to 31st December, 1790 . . $1,338,875 84 J
Deduct the amount paid for 81,456,743 18 of the

public debt extinguished as per abstract . . $941,85169

Leaves a balance which remains to be applied to the

farther purchases of the public debt . . . $397,024 15£

III.

An abstract Statement of the sum extinguished of the Public Debt, also of the payment
from thcfudds of the present Government of certain claims which were incurred by
the late Government.

Purchases of the Public Debt.

Amount thereof extinguished $1,456,743 38

Warrants drawn by the Board of Treasury under the late Govern-
ment, and which have been discharged in pursuance of the Act of
Congress of 29th September, 1789 157,789 94

Civil List: for various payments made upon accounts which ori-
ginated u der the late Government 25,768 50

War Department, being for arrearages of pay due to sundry ofl&cers

of the army, and for provisions furnished 7,308 40

Abraham Skinner, late Commissary General of Prisoners, for the
Board of American Prisoners of War at Long Island ; appro,
priated by Congress, per their Act passed 12th August, 1790

Representatives of Mr. de Decoudray, balance of pay

Ditto Hon. John Laurens, his salary on an embassy to the French
Court

Francis Dana, salary on an embassy to the Court of St. Petersburg

Benson, Smith and Barker, their expenses attending the embark-
ation of the British troops at New York

His Most Christian Majesty, for military and ordnance stores sup-
plied to American ships of war, in the French West Indies .
G 2

38,683 13

2,977 24

6,017 31

2,410 30

1,000

29,029 68

18 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ' [Mr. 35.

Oliver Pollock, for balance due him for supplies at New Orleans,
with interest thereon, in conformity with the several Acts of
Congress 108.605

Mons. Gardoqui & Son, balance due for supplies furnished in Spain 502 86

Bills of exchange, which had been drawn on Foreign Commis-
sioners, not paid by them

Timothy Pickering, late Quarter-Master General, being on account
of the appropriation of $40,000, passed July 1st, 1790 .

Grants of Congress, viz : —
John McCord, per Act of Congress of 1st July, 1790 .
Jehoakim M. Tocksin, per Act of Congress of the 26th of March,
Baron de Glaubeck, per Act of 29th September, 1789 .

Seth Harding, per Act 11th August, 1790

Caleb Brewster, ditto, ditto

$1,845,217 42
Treasury Department, Register's Office, August 23rd, 1792.

Joseph Nourse, Register.

$250,542 14

4,185 50

2,077 89

1,309 71

120 00

140 26

200 00

348 57

2,118 54

CIVIS TO MERCATOR.

Sept. 5th, 1792.

Certain Treasury Documents were lately published for the
information of the community, without any precise designation
of the purpose for which they were published. They were left
to speak for themselves, with only a short introduction, denom-
inating them "Authentic documents respecting the progress
which has been made by the present government of the United
States, towards extinguishing the debts contracted under the
former government."

A writer in this Gazette of Saturday last, under the signature

JEt. 35.] CI VIS. 19

of Mercator, has thought fit to come forward, and, assigning
what he conceives to be the object of the publication, endeavors
to show, that the contrary of what was intended, is true.

What right had Mercator to suppose, that any thing more
was intended, than simply to inform the public that besides a
punctual payment of the interest on the debt, from the period at which
measures were matured to begin that payment, a considerable sum of
the Capital of the Debt has been extinguished, and that a further sum
ivillbe extinguished by a provision already made f leaving them to this
very natural inference, which will be drawn by every candid mind,
that the government has been as attentive as circumstances would
permit, at so early a period, to the extinguishment of the debt.

Bat admitting Mercator to be right in his suggestion of the
object, it is presumed that a liberal construction of all circum-
stances will justify the position, that the present government has
reduced the debt of the former government, to the extent ex-
pressed in the documents which have been published. This will
result, if it shall appear that provision was made for the interest,
as early as was reasonably practicable. To have paid the interest
from that period, and to have sunk so much of the capital in
addition, is, in fair construction, to have reduced the debt to the
extent of the capital sunk.

When Mercator undertook to suppose an object, which was
not declared, he ought to have taken care to be better informed
and more accurate. When he undertook to state an account with
the Treasury Department, he ought not only to have selected just
items, to have adverted to dates, times and possibilities, but he
ought to have stated the whole account.

This he has not done ; on the contrary he has both misrepre-
sented and suppressed facts. He has shown, in the true spirit of
a certain junto (who not content with the large share of power
they have in the government, are incessantly laboring to monop-
olize the whole of its power, and to banish from it every man
who is not subservient to their preposterous and all-grasping
views), that he has been far more solicitous to arraign, than to
manifest the truth — to take away, than to afford consolation to
the people of the United States.

20 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ' [JEi. 35.

The following particulars are proofs of his want both of accu-
racy and candor.

First. — He charges to the Treasury Department arrears of
interest, which accrued prior to its existence, that is, from the
1st of August, 1789 ; whereas the department was not instituted
till the 2d of September, nor organized till about the 13th,
when, I am informed, the Secretary of the Treasury entered upon
the duties of his office.

Secondly. — He takes as the standard of his calculation, the
whole amount of the annual interest on the whole amount of the
public debt, as it exists under the present funding system, in-
cluding all the arrears of interest made principal, and the
$21,500,000 of assumed debt — whereas the arrears which did
actually accumulate to the end of the year 1790, were only on
the principal of the foreign and domestic debt, and fall short
more than a million of dollars of the sum he states.

These simple facts prove the fallacy of his statement.
But the principle, upon which he proceeds, is not less absurd
than his calculations are fallacious.

With as much propriety might an executor be charged with
increasing the debts of his testator, by suffering the arrears of
interest on his bonds and notes to accumulate, while he was
collecting, arranging and disposing of the estate ; as the present
government, or if the phrase is preferred, the present Treasury
Department, may be charged with those arrearages, which una-
voidably accrued, during the preparatory measures for bringing
the resources of the public estate into activity. With as much
reason might it be charged with the 13,000,000 of interest, which
accumulated under the imbecile system, the old confederation, to
which, if not to worse, — a dissolution of the Union ! — the designs
of the junto evidently point or tend.

When, proceeding upon grounds so loose and unjust, Mer-
cator makes the extraordinary declaration, that the Secretary of
the Treasury " has produced an actual addition to the public debt
of more than one million and a half of dollars," is it not palpable,
that in the most malignant spirit of party he is endeavoring to
destroy the public confidence in that officer, no matter how unfair

jEt.35.] CI VIS.
the means, as one link in the chain of measures by which the
domineering aims of his party are to be effected, or the cause ot
confusion promoted ? Is it not clear that in the language and
conceptions of Mercator to provide for a debt, and to "produce"
it, amount to the same thing ?

To form a still better estimate of the spirit by which he is
actuated, let there be a review of some leading facts.

Congress met under the present government on the 1st of
April, 1789. To put it in motion they had a vast and very
arduous work before them. This was of course a primary object ;
a provision for the debt, a secondary one. It was natural then
that the first session should have been exhausted in organizing
the government, and that a systematic provision for the debt
should be postponed, as in fact it was, to the second session. A
temporary and partial provision of revenue only was accordingly
made, by very moderate duties of impost, far short of an ade-
quate fund for the support of government, and the payment of
the interest on the debt, to take effect on the 1st of August,
1789 ; which was as early as the law could be promulgated
throughout the Union, and the subordinate executive arrange-
ments made for carrying it into execution.

It has been stated, that the Treasury Department began to be
in activity on the 18th of September. Congress adjourned on
the 29th of that month, after having instructed the Secretary of
the Treasury to report concerning the debt at the ensuing session.
It is to be recollected, that without an order of the House, that
officer can propose nothing.

It is evident, that there was no responsibility on the side of
that department, for the accumulation of interest on the debt
until, at earliest, the second session, which began on the 7th of
January, 1790.

On Thursday, the 14th of January, the Secretary of the
Treasury submitted to the House of Representatives, according
to order, the plan of a provision for the public debt, compre-
hending an additional provision of revenue, for the purpose of
facing the interest. But it was not till the 4th of August that
the principles of a provision for the debt were determined by

22 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

law, nor till the 10th of the same month that a supplementary
fund was established for paying the interest upon it ; and from
considerations of an obvious nature, the commencement of this
fund in operation was deferred to the 1st of January following.

Here again 'tis manifest, that there was no responsibility in
the Treasury Department, for the accumulation of interest up to
the period from which it has been punctually paid, namely, the
1st of January, 1791, because it was not in the power of that
department to have accelerated a provision for it. Nor will any
blame justly light upon Congress for the moderate delay which
ensued. It was their duty to bestow much deliberation upon the
subject. Much difference of opinion — much discussion — a con-
siderable loss of time, were to be expected in relation to a subject
so momentous, so perplexing, touching so differently so many
chords of passion and interest.

The law providing for the debt having passed, the Secretary
of the Treasury immediately seized the opportunity which was
afforded, by an unappropriated surplus of revenue to the end of
the year 1790, to make an impression on the debt. He proposed
that it should be applied to purchases of the debt, at its market
prices, which was agreed to by Congress, and has been carried
into execution, as far as circumstances have hitherto permitted.

This was certainly the best application that could have been
made of the fund. It was equally the interest of the government
and of the public creditors : — of the government, because it was
a clear gain of all the difference between the sum of specie paid,
and the sum of debt redeemed, which is already $514,891 and 69
cents, and will be more when the remaining sum appropriated
comes to be applied to further purchases ; because it was a clear
saving to the nation of all the difference in price which was paid
by foreigners in their purchases ; in consequence of the compe-
tition of the government, in the market, as a purchaser. It is
well known to every well-informed man, that the rapid apprecia-
tion of the debt, was materially owing to that circumstance, and
of course the saving to the nation by it has been very considerable.
The measure in question was equally beneficial to the public
creditors — because if the fund applied to purchases had been

JEt. 35.] CI VIS. 23

apportioned among them in payment of interest, it would have
been a mere pittance ; but applied as it was, it gave a rapid
spring to the whole value of the stock.

As it is therefore proved that the Treasury Department is
chargeable with no delay with regard to a provision for the debt,
occasioning an unnecessary accumulation of interest, in a question
of merit respecting that department which Mercator has raised,
it will follow, that the department on account of the operations
which have been advised by it, has an unbalanced claim of
merit with the community —

1st. — For all that has been or shall be saved by purchases of
the public debt, at the market prices.

2d. — For all that has been saved to the nation, for the more
advanced prices given by foreigners in their purchases of the
debt.

But there are other items of importance to be placed on the
same side of the account.

1st. — The saving resulting from the reduced rate on the new
loans for paying off the foreign debt.

2d. — The positive gain of 1,000,000 of dollars, by the insti-
tution of the Bank of the United States. The stock of the Bank
being at an advance of 50 per cent., it is clear, that the govern-
ment, by having become a proprietor to the extent of 2,000,000
of dollars, has by this single operation made an actual net profit
of 1,000,000 of dollars, that is, it can get three millions for what
will have cost it only two.

I add nothing for any saving, which has accrued from the par-
ticular modification of the domestic debt, for two reasons ; one
because the subject being more complicated would require more
illustration, and the other, because the plan adopted by the
legislature, though having the leading features of that proposed
by the Treasury Department, differs from it in some material
respects ; a strong refutation of the idea, so industriously incul-
cated, that the plans of that department are implicitly followed
by the legislature ; and a decisive proof, that they have had no
more weight than they ought to have had ; that is to say, than
they were entitled to from their intrinsic reasonableness in the

24 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

unbiassed and independent judgment of majorities in the two
houses of Congress. The result of what has been said is this :
that provision was made for paying the interest of the debt as
early as could reasonably have been expected ; that no negli-
gence having happened, the arrears of interest which have accu-
mulated in the interval are properly a part of the debts of the
former government; and consequently, that the sums which
appear to have been absorbed are so much of the debts of the
old government extinguished by the new.

Mercator brings as a proof that the public debt has increased
and is increasing, "what he terms the present amount and
increasing weight of the duties of impost and excise." Let facts
decide the soundness of this logic. In the last session of Con-
gress, the only excise duty which exists was reduced upon an
average fifteen per cent. The only addition which was then
made to the imposts was for carrying on the Indian war, and by
avoiding recourse to permanent loans for that purpose, to avoid
an increase of the debt. How then can that, which was done to
avoid an increase of debt, be a proof that it has increased?

Cms.

ii.

Philadelphia, Sept. 11th, 1792.

Little other notice of the futile reply of Mercator to Civis
is necessary, than merely to put in a clear light the erroneousness
of the standard, which he has adopted for calculating the arrears
of interest to the end of the year 1790.

He takes for his standard, the present annual interest on the
whole amount of the public debt, as provided for under the funding
system; that is, 1st. Upon the former principal of the foreign and
domestic debt : — 2d. Upon the arrears of 'interest of that principal,
which on the 1st of January, 1791, and not before, became prin-
cipal, by the provisions of the funding law: — 3d. Upon the
whole amount of the assumed debt, that is, 21,500,000.

Mt. 35.]

civis. 25

Now the fact is, that the only arrears which can colorably
be computed, are those on the principal of the foreign and domestic
debt, according to the terms of interest which they actually bore,
up to the 1st January, 1791. 1st. Because, in fact, the arrears
of interest on that principal did not bear interest till the 1st Jan-
uary, 1791 ; and consequently no interest whatever accrued upon
them. And 2d, because the government of the United States
took up the State debts, as they stood at the end of the year
1791. If arrears of interest accumulated, in the mean time,
'twas the affair of the State governments, which were the
debtors and alone responsible for a provision for it, not of the
government of the United States, which only became responsible
by virtue of the assumption, from the time that it took effect,
that is, from the 1st January, 1792, from which period the
interest has been punctually paid. This is the true view of it,
unless it can be shown that the government of the United States
is answerable for the neglects and omissions of the State govern-
ments. But, what arrears may have really accumulated on this
part of the debt is unknown, as it is understood there was in
some States a provision for the interest.

Calculating then the arrears, which did actually accrue, that
is on the principal and interest of the foreign and domestic debt,
the former, according to the various rates which were stipulated
upon it, and the latter at 6 per cent., the rate which it then bore,
from the 1st of August, 1789, to the 1st of January, 1791, from
which period interest has been paid — the amount is $3,003,378 47,
that is, $1,032,980 72 less than the amount of the arrears for the
same period by Mercator. This statement is not made from any
secret sources of information, but from documents long since in
the possession of the public. If Mercator has been inattentive
to the means of information, he ought not to come forth the
instructor of his fellow citizens.

In a mere question of the increase and decrease of the public
debt, if the arrears of interest which accrued on the assumed
debt, up to the period from which the United States began to
pay interest upon it, be placed on one side of the account, the
saving or reduction, by the nature of the provision for it, ought

26 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

to be placed on the other side, and the balance will be in favor
of the United States.

Had Mercator stated an account with the Treasury Depart-
ment, on his own principle candidly applied, namely, that of
setting off the surplus of revenue, to the end of the year 1790,
against the amount of the debt redeemed by purchases and pay-
ments, the account would have stood thus —

Debtor Side.
To amount of surplus revenue at the eud of the

year 1790 $1,338,875 84

Credit Side.

By the amount of the sum which appears by the
statement of the Eegister of the Treasury to
have been redeemed and paid off . . . $1,845,217 42

By sum remaining to be applied .... 397,024 13

$2,242,241 55

Balance . $903,366 71
being the amount of the public debt actually reduced, beyond the
amount of the funds remaining on hand, at the commencement
of the operation of the funding system, in virtue of antecedent
provision, and exclusive of reductions on the rates of interest.

As to the concluding remarks of Mercator, they depart from
the question. 'Tis no matter, in reference to that, whether the
items which were mentioned are circumstances of temporary
expedient, or results of the soundest policy. They constitute
positive savings and gains to the nation.

But it was not sufficient for Mercator to assert ; he ought to
have shown what sacrifice of justice or principle was involved in
them. Not having done it, it is sufficient to observe, that one
good effect of the measures of finance, which have been adopted
by the present government, is at least unequivocal. The public
credit has been effectually restored. This may be in the eyes of
Mercator of little moment. There are certain theorists who hold
both private and public credit to be pernicious. But their dis-

JE.T. 35.]

FACT. 27

ciples are not numerous ; at least among sober and enlightened
men.

The actual benefits or actual evils of the measures connected
with the Treasury Department, present and future, would be
cheerfully submitted to the Test of Experience. Happy would
it be for the country, honorable for human nature, if the experi-
ment were permitted to be fairly made. But the pains which
are taken to misrepresent the tendency of those measures, to
influence the public mind, to disturb the operations of the govern-
ment, are a decided proof, that those to whom they are attri-
butable dare not trust the appeal to such a Test. Convinced of
this, they have combined all their forces, and are making one
desperate effort to gain an ascendency in the public councils, by
means of the ensuing election, in order to precipitate the laudable
work of destroying what has been done.

Civis.

FACT.

For the National Gazette.

Sept. 11th, 1792.

Much declamation has been indulged against certain charac-
ters, who are charged with advocating the pernicious doctrine, that
" public debts are public blessings," and with being friends to a
perpetuation of the public debt of the country. Among these
characters, if the Secretary of the Treasury has not been named,
he has been pretty plainly alluded to. It is proper to examine
what foundation there is then for those charges.

That officer, it is very certain, explicitly maintained, that the
funding of the existing debt of the United States would render it
a national blessing ; and a man has only to travel through the
United States with his eyes open, and to observe the invigoration
of industry in every branch, to be convinced that the position is
well founded.

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

But, whether right or wrong, it is quite a different thing from
maintaining, as a general proposition, that a public debt is a
public blessing ; particular and temporary circumstances might
render that advantageous at one time, which at another might
be hurtful.

It is known that prior to the revolution, a great part of the
circulation was carried on by paper money ; that in consequence
of the events of the revolution, that resource was in a great
measure destroyed, by being discredited, and that the same
events had destroyed a large proportion of the moneyed and mer-
cantile capital of the country, and of personal property generally.
It was natural to think that the chasm created by these circum-
stances required to be supplied, and a just theory was sufficient
to demonstrate, that a funded debt would answer the end. To
infer that it would have such an effect, was no more to main-
tain the general doctrine of " public debts being public bless-
ings," than the saying, that paper emissions, by the autho-
rity of government, were useful in the early periods of the
country, was the maintaining, that they would be useful in all
the future stages of its progress.

But to put the matter out of all doubt, and to show how
destitute of candor the insinuations against the Secretary of the
Treasury on this head have been, I have extracted, and shall
insert here some passages from some of his reports to the House
of Representatives, by which it will be seen, that his conduct as
well as his language have been in uniform opposition to the
doctrine charged upon him. The length of these reports, it is
probable, have prevented many well-disposed persons from being
acquainted with their contents, the presumption of which em-
boldens the calumniators of public characters and measures to
make assertions, of the falsehood of which the mere perusal of
official documents would convict them.

Extract from a report of the Secretary of the Treasury on
the subject of a provision for the public debt, presented the 14th
of January, 1790. " Persuaded, as the Secretary is, that the
proper funding of the present debt will render it a national
blessing; yet he is so far from acceding to the position, in the

Mr. 35.] FACT. 29

latitude in which it is sometimes laid down, that "public debts
are public benefits," a position inviting to prodigality, and liable to
dangerous abuse, that he ardently wishes to see it incorporated, as
a fundamental maxim in the system of public credit of the United
States, that the creation of debt should be always accompanied with
the means of extinguishment. This he regards as the true secret for
rendering public credit immortal. And he presumes that it is
difficult to conceive a situation in which there may not be an
adherence to the maxim. At least he feels an unfeigned solicitude
that this may be attempted by the United States, and that they
may commence their measures for the establishment of credit
with the observance of it."

Extract from a report of the Secretary of the Treasury on
manufactures, presented the 5th December, 1791.

After using several arguments to illustrate the operation of a
funded debt as capital, the Secretary concludes thus. " There are
respectable individuals, who from a just aversion to an accumula-
tion of public debt, are unwilling to concede to it any kind of
utility, who can discover no good to alleviate the ill with which
they suppose it pregnant, who cannot be persuaded that it ought
in any sense to be viewed as an increase of capital, lest it should
be inferred that the more debt the more capital, the greater the
burthens the greater the blessings of the community."

"But it interests the public councils to estimate every object as
it truly is ; to appreciate how far the good in any measure is
compensated by the ill, or the ill by the good ; either of them is
seldom unmixed." " Neither will it follow, that an accumulation of
debt is desirable, because a certain degree of it operates as capital.
There may be a plethora in the political, as in the natural body ;
there may be a state of things in which any such artificial capita,
is unnecessary. The debt too may be swelled to such a size as
that the greatest part of it may cease to be useful as a capital,
serving only to pamper the dissipation of idle and dissolute1
individuals ; as that the sums required to pay the interest upon
it may become oppressive, and beyond the means which a
government can employ, consistently with its tranquillity, to
raise them ; as that the resources of taxation, to face the debt,

30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

may have been strained too far to admit of extensions adequate
to exigencies, which regard the public safety."

" Where this critical point is, cannot be pronounced ; but it
is impossible to believe that there is not such a point."

" And as the vicissitudes of nations beget a perpetual tendency
to the accumulation of debt, there ought to be in every government
a perpetual, anxious, and unceasing effort to reduce that which at any
time exists, as fast as shall be practicable, consistently with integrity
and good faith.""

Extract from a report of the Secretary of the Treasury rela-
tive to additional supplies for carrying on the Indian War, pre-
sented the 16th of March, 1792.

" The result of mature reflection is, in the mind of the Secre-
tary, a strong conviction that the last of the three expedients
which have been mentioned (that was the raising of the sum
required, by taxes) is to be preferred to either of the other two."

" Nothing can more interest the national credit and prosperity,
than a constant and systematic attention to husband all the means
previously possessed for extinguishing the present debt, and to avoid,
as much as possible, the incurring any new debt.'11

" Necessity alone, therefore, can justify the application of any
of the public property, other than the annual revenues, to the
current service, or to the temporary and casual exigencies of
the country — or the contracting of an additional debt, by loans,
to provide for those exigencies."

"Great emergencies might exist in which loans would be
indispensable. But the occasions which will justify them, must
be truly of that description." " The present is not of such a
nature. The sum to be provided is not of magnitude enough to
furnish the plea of necessity." " Taxes are never welcome to a
community. They seldom fail to excite uneasy sensations more
or less extensive ; hence a too strong propensity in the govern-
ment of nations to anticipate and mortgage the resources of
posterity, rather than encounter the inconveniences of a present
increase of taxes."

" But this policy, when not dictated by very peculiar circumstances,
is of the ivorst kind. Its obvious tendency is, by enhancing the

Mt. 35.] AMICUS. 31

permanent burthens of the people, to produce lasting distress,
and its natural issue is in national bankruptcy."

" It will be happy if the councils of this country, sanctioned
by the voice of an enlightened community, shall be able to pur-
sue a different course."

Here is example added to precept. In pursuit of a doctrine,
the opposite of that which is charged upon him, the Secretary
did not scruple to hazard the popularity of his administration
with a class of citizens, who, as a class, have been among the
firmest friends of the government, and the warmest approvers of
the measures which have restored public credit. The circum-
stance indeed has been a weapon dexterously wielded against
him by his enemies ; who, in consequence of the increase of
duties proposed, have represented him as the oppressor of trade.
A certain description of men are for getting out of debt, yet are
against all taxes for raising money to pay it off; they are among
the foremost for carrying on war, and yet will have neither loans
nor taxes. They are alike opposed to what creates debt, and to
what avoids it.

In the first case their meaning is not difficult to be divined ; in
the last, it would puzzle any man, not endowed with the gift of
second sight, to find it out, unless it be to quarrel with and pull
down every man who will not consent to walk in their leading
strings ; or to throw all things into confusion.

Fact.

AMICUS.

September 11th, 1792.

A writer in the Gazette of Saturday last, after several obser-
vations with regard to certain charges which have been lately
brought forward against the Secretary of State, proceeds to make
or insinuate several charges against another political character.

As to the observations which are designed to exculpate the

82 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

Secretary of State, I shall do nothing more than refer to the dis-
cussions which have taken place, and appear to be in a train to
be pursued in the Gazette of the United States.

As to the charges which have been brought against the other
public character alluded to, I shall assert, generally, from a long-
intimate and confidential acquaintance with him, added to some
other means of information, that the matters charged, as far as
they are intelligible, are either grossly misrepresented, or palpa-
bly untrue.

A part of them is of a nature to speak for itself without com-
ment, the malignity and turpitude of the accuser denoting
clearly the personal enemy in the garb of the political oppo-
nent.

The subject and the situation of the parties naturally impose
silence, but this is not the first attempt of the kind that has been
made fruitlessly hitherto, and I doubt not, equally fruitlessly in
time to come. An opinion on the experience of 15 years, the
greatest part of the time under circumstances affording the best
opportunity for an accurate estimate of character, cannot be
shaken by slanderous surmises. The charge of which I shall take
more particular notice, is contained in the following passage:

"Let him explain the public character, who, if uncontradict-
ed fame is to be regarded, opposed the Constitution in the grand
convention, because it was too republican, and advocated the
British monarchy as the perfect standard to be approached as nearly
as the people could be made to bear.11 This, I affirm to be a gross
misrepresentation. To prove it is so, it were sufficient to appeal to
a single fact, namely, that the gentleman alluded to, was the only
member from the State to which he belonged, who signed the Con-
stitution, and it is notorious against tbe prevailing weight of the
official influence of the State, and against what would probably
be the opinion of a large majority of his fellow-citizens, till bet-
ter information should correct their first impressions.

How, then, can he be believed to have opposed a thing which
he actually agreed to, and that in so unsupported a situation, and
under circumstances of such peculiar responsibility ? To this I
shall add two more facts — one, that the member in question,

JEt. 35] AMICUS. 33

never made a single proposition to the Convention which was not
conformable to the republican theory — the other, that the highest
toned of any of the propositions made by him was actually voted
for by the representation of several States, including some of the
principal ones ; and including individuals, who, in the estimation
of those, who deem themselves the only republicans, are pre-
eminent for republican character— %iore than this I am not at
liberty to say.

It is a matter generally understood, that the deliberations of
the Convention, which were carried on in private, were to remain
undisturbed. And every prudent man must be convinced of the
propriety both of the one and the other. Had the deliberations
been open while going on, the clamors of faction would have
prevented any satisfactory result ; had they been afterwards dis-
closed, much food would have been afforded to inflammatory
declamation. Propositions made without due reflection, and per-
haps abandoned by the proposers themselves, on more mature
reflection, would have been handles for a profusion of ill-natured
accusation.

Every infallible declaimer, taking his own ideas as the per-
fect standard, would have railed without measure or mercy at
every member of the Convention, who had gone a single line
beyond his standard.

The present is a period fruitful in accusation — much anony-
mous slander has and will be vented — no man's reputation can.
be safe, if charges in this form are to be lightly listened to.
There are but two kinds of anonymous charges that can merit
attention — where the evidence goes along with the charge — and
where reference is made to specific facts, the evidence of the
truth or falsehood of which is in the power or possession of the
party accused, and he at liberty to make a free use of it. None
of the charges brought forward in this instance, fall within either
of these rules.

Amicus.

g

34 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

CATULLUS TO AEISTIDES.

For the Gazel^ of the United States.

Sept. 15th, 1792.

Though there would be no great hazard of mistake in in-
ferring the writer of the paper under the signature of Aristid.es
from " the appropriate and prominent features " which charac-
terize the style of that paper; yet I forbear to imitate the
example which has been set, with too little decorum, by naming
or describing the supposed author. The similitude of style, or
any other circumstance merely probable, is too slight a founda-
tion for so improper a procedure.

Peculiar circumstances which it is not necessary to explain,
uniting with the conjecture which is indulged respecting the real
Aristides, lead to a change of the original party to the charges.
The discussion will be taken up and pursued by one, who is
willing to be responsible for the allegations he shall make, and
who consequently will not refuse to be known on proper terms,
to the officer concerned. It is, however, not meant to invite
inquiry on that head. It is most advisable that none should be
made. For any public purpose, none will be requisite. For any
personal one, none will be proper. What shall be said, will
merely apply to public conduct, and will be supported by proof
and argument.

Why then, it may be asked, the intimation of a willingness to
be known, if required ? The answer is merely to put an end to
the epithets " cowardly assassin," " striking in the dark," and
other tropes and figures of a similar nature. Some rhetoric may
be spoiled, but the elucidation of truth will be promoted.

It occurs at once to an observant reader, that Aristides passes
over, in total silence, the leading article of charge brought by the

Mt. 35.] CATULLUS. 36

American against Mr. Jefferson, namely, — That he is the insti-
tutor and patron of a certain Gazette published in this city, the
object and tendency of which are to vilify and depreciate the
government of the United States, to misinterpret and traduce
the administration of it, except in the single department of which
that gentleman is the head ; implicating in the most virulent
censure the majorities of both houses of Congress, the heads
both of the Treasury and "War departments, and sparing not even
the Chief Magistrate himself ; that in the support of this paper,
thus hostile to the government, in the administration of which
he holds so important a trust, he has not scrupled to apply the
money of that very government, departing by this conduct from
the rules of official propriety and obligation, and from the duty
of a discreet and patriotic citizen.

This is the leading and main charge, which has been brought
by the American against Mr. Jefferson, which he supports in
several ways.

1st.— By direct proof of an official connection between the
Secretary of State and the editor of the National Gazette,
coeval with, or rather antecedent to, the first establishment of that-
paper.

2d. — By the suggestion of his being opposed to the present
government of the United States, while it was under the consi-
deration of the people.

3d. — By the suggestion of his being opposed to the principal
measures which have been adopted in the course of its adminis-
tration, particularly those relating to the finances.

The object of the above recapitulation is to show the true
original state of the question, in order that it may be clearly seen
how entirely Aristides, in his defence, loses sight of the principal
point, and contents himself with an indirect endeavor to involve
it in uncertainty, by disputing or denying some positions which
form only the collateral evidence.

It will now remain to see how the charges of the American
have been and can be supported.

As to the connection between the Secretary of State and the
editor of the National Gazette, neither of the following facts

36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

can or will be disputed. If any of them should be denied, it will
be proved beyond the possibility of doubt.

1st. — That the editor of the National Gazette is a clerk in
the Department of State for foreign languages, and as such
receives a salary of two hundred and fifty dollars a year.

2d. — That he became so, antecedent to the establishment of
his Gazette, having actually received his salary from the 17th
August, 1791, and not having published the first number of his
paper till the 31st of October following.

3d. — That at the time he became so, there was another cha-
racter, a clerk, in the same department, who understood the
French language ; and that the editor of the National Gazette is
a translator of that language only.

4th. — That the appointment was not made under any special
provision, marking out a particular clerkship of the kind, its
duties, or its emoluments ; but, under a general authority to
appoint clerks, and allow them salaries not exceeding the average
of 500 dollars to each.

5th. — That the editor of the National Gazette, immediately
preceding the establishment of that paper, was the superintendent
or conductor of a paper belonging to Childs and Swaine, printed
at New- York.

These are the facts : the conclusion is irresistible. The
secret intentions of men being in the repositories of their own
breasts, it rarely happens, and is therefore not to be expected,
that direct and positive proof of them can be adduced.

Presumptive facts and circumstances must afford the evidence ;
and when these are sufficiently strong they ought to decide.

We find the head of a department taking the editor of a
Gazette into his employment, as a clerk, with a stated salary —
not for any special purpose, which could not have been accom-
plished otherwise ; for he had, at the time, in his department, a
clerk who was capable of performing the very service required,
and could without difficulty have procured others similarly qua-
lified ; nor from any particular necessity arising from a too limited
allowance, or any other cause ; for he had it in his power to
allow an adequate compensation to a character who might have
been regularly attached to the department.

Mr. 35.] CATULLUS. 37

The very existence of such a connection, then, is alone a suffi-
cient foundation for believing that the design of the arrangement
was to secure an influence over the paper, the editor of which
was so employed. But the circumstances which attend it
explain the nature of it beyond a doubt. That which has been
just mentioned, namely, there having been previously a clerk in
the department qualified to render the service, is a weighty one.
The coming of a new printer, from another State, to institute a
new paper, his having been appointed clerk in the department
prior to his removal to this city — his having been compensated
before he was even present, to satisfy the appearance of his ren-
dering service ; these circumstances give a point and energy to
the language of the transaction which render it unequivocal.
There perhaps never was a more flimsy covering for the pen-
sioning of a printer. Some ostensible ground for giving him the
public money was necessary to be contrived — the clerkship of
foreign languages was deemed a plausible pretext. But no man
acquainted with human nature, or with the ordinary rules of
political intrigue, can be deceived by it.

The medium of negotiation between the Secretary of State
and Mr. Freneau, in order to the institution of his paper, is
known, and documents are possessed which ascertain the person,
but they are at present withheld, from considerations of a parti-
cular nature. These are the more readily yielded to, because
the facts which have been stated render it unnecessary to
exhibit them. These facts prove, to the satisfaction of every
impartial mind, that Mr. Jefferson is the Institutor and Patron
of the National Gazette.

As to the complexion and tendency of that Gazette, a refer-
ence to itself is sufficient. No man, who loves the government,
or is a friend to the public tranquillity, but must reprobate it as
an incendiary and pernicious publication, and condemn the aus-
pices under which it is supported.

In another paper, the charges which have occasioned so much
umbrage to Aristides will be more correctly stated and enforced.
The precise terms of the advice which was given by Mr. Jefferson
to Congress, respecting the transfer of the French debt to a com-
pany of Hollanders, will be recited.

38 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

This characteristic trait in the political principles of that
gentleman, will be submitted to the honest feelings not only of
the great body of the yeomanry, to whom such affected appeals
are so often made, but to honest men of whatsoever class and
condition.

Catullus.

ii.

Sept. 19th, 1792.

The " American," to confirm the inferences resulting from
the official connection between the Secretary of State and the
editor of. the National Gazette, appeals to a conformity of the
political principles and views of that officer with those which are
sedulously inculcated in that Gazette. If this conformity exists,
it certainly affords a strong presumption, in aid of direct facts, of
the operation of his influence on the complexion of that paper.

The circumstances of conformity alleged, fall under two
heads ; one, That the Secretary of State was in the origin
opposed to that Constitution, which it is the evident object of
the National Gazette to discredit : the other, That he has been,
and is, opposed to those measures which it is the unremitted, and,
it may be said, the avowed endeavor of that paper to censure
and subvert.

In contradiction to the first suggestion, Aristides cites an
authority, which the American appears to have relied upon in
support of his assertion ; the speech of Mr. Pendleton in the
Convention of Virginia. Let an analysis of this speech show
whether it supports or contradicts the assertion.

Mr. Pendleton represents a certain letter of Mr. Jefferson as
containing these particulars — a strong wish that the first nine con-
ventions may accept the new Constitution because it would secure
the good it contains, which is great and important. 2d. A wish
that the four latest, whichever they should be, might refuse to
accede to it till amendments were secured. 3d. A caution to take

JEt. 35. J CATULLUS. 39

care that no objection to the form of the government should pro-
duce a schism in the Union ; which Mr. Jefferson admits to be
an incurable evil.

From this it appears, that though Mr. Jefferson was of
opinion that the Constitution contained " great and important
good," and was desirous that the first nine deliberating States
should consent to it for the sake of preserving the existence of
the Union, yet he had strong objections to the Constitution ; so
strong, that he was willing to risk an ultimate dismemberment in
an experiment to obtain the alterations which he deemed neces-
sary.

If the four last deliberating States (particularly if they had
happened to be States in geographical contiguity, which was
very possible) had refused to ratify the Constitution, what might
not have been the consequence ? Who knows whether the as-
senting States would have been willing to have been coerced into
the amendments which the non-assenting States might have
been disposed to dictate ? Calculating the intrigues and machi-
nations which were to have been expected to stand in the way,
who can say, if even two-thirds of both houses of Congress
should have been found willing to propose that three fourths of
the legislatures, or conventions, in three-fourths of the States
would have been brought to adopt the required amendments ?

Could any thing but objections to the Constitution of the most
serious kind have justified the hazarding an eventual schism in
the Union, in so great a degree as. would have attended an ad-
herence to the advice given by Mr. Jefferson ? Can there be
any perversion of truth in affirming that the person who enter-
tained those objections was opposed to the Constitution?

The opposition which was experienced in every part of the
United States, acknowledged the necessity and utility of the
Union ; and, generally speaking, that the Constitution contained
many valuable features; contending only that it wanted some
essential alterations to render it upon the whole a safe and good
government.

It may be satisfactory to review what was said in the same
convention of Virginia by some other members on the subject of
the letter in question.

40 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

Mr. Henry (p. 109 of the "Debates") replies thus to Mr.
Pendleton : — " The honorable gentleman has endeavored to ex-
plain the opinion of Mr. Jefferson, our common friend, into an
advice to adopt this new government. He wishes nine States to
adopt, and that four States may be found somewhere to reject it.
Now, sir, I say, if we pursue his advice, what are we to do ? To
prefer form to substance ? for give me leave to ask, what is the
substantial part of his counsel ? It is, sir, that four States should
reject. They tell us that, from the most authentic accounts, New
Hampshire will adopt it. Where then will four States be found
to reject, if we adopt it? If we do, the counsel of this worthy
and enlightened countryman of ours will be thrown away," &c.
Whether this gentleman argued sincerely from his impression of
the true import of the letter, or made an attempt " to pervert
Mr. Jefferson's sentiments," as Aristides affirms, must be re-
served to his own consciousness, and to the candid construction
of an impartial public.

Mr. Madison, in reply to Mr. Henry (p. 122 of the same De-
bates), expresses himself thus: — "The honorable member, in
order to influence our decision, has mentioned the opinion of
a citizen, who is an ornament to this State. When the name of
this distinguished character was introduced, I was much sur-
prised. Is it come to this, then, that we are not to follow our oivn
reason f Is it proper to adduce the opinions of respectable men,
not within these walls ? If the opinion of an important charac-
ter were to weigh on this occasion, could we not adduce a char-
acter equally great on our side ? Are we, who (in the honorable
gentleman's opinion) are not to be guided by an erring world,
now to submit to the opinion of a citizen beyond the Atlantic 1 I be-
lieve that were that gentleman now on this floor, he would be for
the adoption of this Constitution. I wish his name had never
been mentioned; I wish every thing spoken here relative to
his opinion, may be suppressed, if our debates should be pub-
lished. I know that the delicacy of his feelings will be wound-
ed, when he will see in print what has and may be said con-
cerning him on this occasion. I am in some measure acquainted
with his sentiments on this subject. It is not right for me to un-

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 41

fold what he has informed me. But I will venture to assert that
the clause now discussed is not objected to by Mr. Jefferson.
He approves of it, because it enables the government to carry on
its operations," &c. It is observable that Mr. Madison neither ad-
vocates the accuracy of Mr. Pendleton's comment nor denies the
justice of that of Mr. Henry. His solicitude appears to be to
destroy the influence of what he impliedly admits to be the
opinion of Mr. Jefferson, to press out of sight the authority of
that opinion, and to get rid of the subject as fast as possible. He
confesses a knowledge of Mr. Jefferson's sentiments, but pru-
dently avoids disclosure, wrapping the matter in mysterious re-
serve, and leaving the public to this day to conjecture what was
the precise import of the sentiments communicated. Enough,
however, is seen to justify the conclusion, that if the spirit of Air.
Jefferson's advice had prevailed with the convention, and full
credence had been given to the expected adoption by New
Hampshire, Virginia, North Carolina, New- York, and Rhode
Island, would have temporarily thrown themselves out of the
Union. And whether in that event, they would have been at
this day re-united to it, or whether there would be now any
Union at all, is happily a speculation which need only be pur-
sued to derive the pleasing reflection, that the danger was wisely
avoided.

To understand more accurately what the "American " meant
in asserting that Mr. Jefferson had been opposed to the Consti-
tution, let him be compared with himself. In his first paper he
expresses himself thus :—" While the Constitution of the United
States was depending before the people of this country for their
consideration and decision, Mr. Jefferson being in France was
opposed to it in some of its most important features, and wrote his
objections to some of his friends in Virginia. He at first went so
far as to discountenance its adoption ; though he afterwards recom-
mended it on the ground of expediency in certain contingencies."

From this it is evident, that so far from denying, he has even
admitted that Mr. Jefferson, at one stage of the business, recom-
mended the adoption of the Constitution to his fellow-citizens,
but upon a contingency. And this is literally the fact, as estab-

42 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

lislied by the letter quoted in the debates of the convention.
The advice is to adopt, if nine States had not previously adopt-
ed; to reject, if that number of States had previously adopted.
This is clearly to adopt, or not, upon a contingency. Thus the
authority appealed to by " Aristides" confirms the latter part of
the American's assertion, without contradicting the former part
of it.

Aristides has not denied, nor do I believe he will deny, that
Mr. Jefferson, in his early communications, discountenanced the
adoption of the Constitution in its primitive form. I know the
source of the American's information. It is equally authentic
and friendly to Mr. Jefferson. Allowing for the bare possibility
of misapprehension, it exactly accords with the statement which
has been made of it. If the fact shall be denied, the source of
information will be indicated, under due guards for the delicacy
of the proceeding.

This will serve either to confirm, or, in case of misconception,
to correct.

I add, that some of Mr. Jefferson's objections to the Constitu-
tion have not been removed by the amendments which have been
proposed. Part of his objections went to the structure of parti-
cular parts of the government.

As to the second fact which the " American " corroborates,
the charge of Mr. Jefferson's participation in the views of the
National Gazette, it is in a degree conceded by " Aristides." He
confesses, nay, he even boasts Mr. Jefferson's abhorrence of some
of the leading principles of Mr. Hamilton's fiscal administration,
— that is, the leading principles of those measures which have
provided for the public debt and restored public credit.

It would have been well if " Aristides " had told us what
those leading principles are which are the objects of so much ab-
horrence to Mr. Jefferson.

The leading principles of Mr. Hamilton's administration have
been — that the public debt ought to be provided for, in favor of
those who, according to the express terms of the contract, were
the true legal proprietors of it ; that it ought to be provided for,
in other respects, according to the terms of the contract, except so

Mr. 35.] CATULLUS. . 43

far as deviations from it should be assented to by the creditors,
upon the condition of a fair equivalent — that it ought to be
funded on ascertained revenues pledged for the payment of in-
terest, and the gradual redemption of principal — that the debts
of the several States ought to be comprised in the provisions, on
the same terms with that of the United States — that to render this
great operation practicable, avoid the oppression of trade and in-
dustry, and facilitate loans to the government in cases of emer-
gency, it was necessary to institute a national bank — that indi-
rect taxes were, in the actual circumstances of the country, the
most eligible means of revenue ; and that direct taxes ought to
be avoided as much and as long as possible.

I aver, from competent opportunities of knowing Mr. Jeffer-
son's ideas, that he has been hostile to all these positions, except,
perhaps, the last ; and that even in regard to that, his maxims
would oblige the government in practice speedily to resort to di-
rect taxes.

I aver, moreover, that Mr. Jefferson's opposition to the admi-
nistration of the government has not been confined to the mea-
sures connected with the Treasury Department, but has extended,
to use the words of the American, to almost all the important
measures of the government. The exceptions to the generality
of both the preceding assertions, I am content to rest on a desig-
nation by Mr. Jefferson, or by any person, who shall speak from
a knowledge of his sentiments, of those principles of the fiscal
department, or of those measures of the government of any im-
portance, which he does approve. I insist only, that the designa-
tion be precise and explicit, and come with such marks of
authenticity, as are adapted to the nature of an anonymous dis-
cussion.

To give an idea of the accuracy with which Aristides dis-
closes Mr. Jefferson's opinions, I shall cite one of his phrases with
a short observation. He asserts that a suggestion against Mr.
Jefferson, which he states, is made on no better foundation than
his being opposed to some of the principles of the funding sys-
tem, of the national bank, and certain other measures of the Se-
cretary of the Treasury. It is matter of general notoriety, and

44 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

unquestionable certainty, that Mr. Jefferson has been opposed to
the national bank in toto, to its constitutionality, and to its expe-
diency. With what propriety is it then said, that he has been
opposed only to " some of the principles of that institution."

I proceed now to state the exact tenor of the advice which
Mr. Jefferson gave to Congress respecting the transfer of the
debt due to France to a company of Hollanders. After mention-
ing an offer which had been made by such a company for the
purchase of the debt, he concludes with these extraordinary ex-
pressions, " If there is a danger of the public payment not being
punctual, I submit whether it may not be better, that the dis-
contents tohich would then arise should be transferred from a court
of whose good ivill toe have so much need to the breasts of a private
company?-1

The above is an extract which was made from the letter in
Feb., 1787. The date of it was not noted, but the original being
on the files of the Department of State, will ascertain that and
all other particulars relating to its contents. The genuineness of
the foregoing extract may be depended upon.

This letter was the subject of a report from the Board of
Treasury in Feb., 1787. That board treated the idea of the trans-
fer proposed, as both unjust and impolitic : — unjust, because the
nation would contract an engagement which there was no well-
grounded prospect of fulfilling; impolitic, because a failure in the
payment of interest, on the debt transferred (which was inevitable),
would justly blast all hopes of credit with the citizens of the
United Netherlands in future pressing exigencies of the Union ;
and gave it as their opinion, that it would be advisable for Con-
gress, without delay, to instruct their minister at the court of
France, to forbear giving his sanction to any such transfer.
x ■* -x- * * •* *

Congress agreeing in the ideas of the board, caused an instruc-
tion to that effect to be sent to Mr. Jefferson. Here, then, was
a solemn act of government condemning the principle as unjust
and impolitic.

If the sentiment contained in the extract which has been re-
cited, can be vindicated from the imputation of political profligacy,

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. £5

then is it necessary to unlearn all the ancient notions of justice,
and to substitute some new-fashioned scheme of morality in their
stead.

Here is no complicated problem which sophistry may en-
tangle or obscure. Here is a plain question of moral feeling. A
government is encouraged, on the express condition of not having
a prospect of making a due provision for a debt which it owes, to
concur in a transfer of that debt, from a nation well able to bear
the inconveniences of failure or delay, to individuals whose total
ruin might have been the consequence of it, and that upon the
interested consideration of having need of the good will of the
creditor nation, and, with the dishonorable motive, as it is clearly
implied, of having more to apprehend from the discontents of
that nation, than from those of disappointed and betrayed indi-
viduals. Let every honest and impartial mind, consulting its
own spontaneous emotions, pronounce for itself upon the recti-
tude of such a suggestion. Let every sober and independent
member of the community decide whether it is likely to be a
misfortune to the country, that the maxims of the officer at the
head of its Treasury Department are materially variant from those
of the author of that suggestion.

And let Aristides prove, if he can, that Mr. Jefferson gave
advice " expressly contrary to that which has been ascribed to
him." Amidst the eccentric ramblings of this political comet, its
station in another revolution will not prove that its appearance
was not, at one time, at the place which has been assigned for it.

The American, it ought to be confessed, has in this instance
drawn larger than the life. This he has done by blending with
the fact the sudden though natural comments of an honest
indignation. But the original itself, in its true size and shape,
without the help of the least exaggeration, is to the moral eye a
deformed and hideous monster.

Say, Aristides ! did the character to whom you are so partial,
imitate, in this case, the sublime virtue of that venerable Athe-
nian, whose name you have assumed— did he dissuade his
countrymen from adopting a proposition, because though " nothing
could be more advantageous, nothing could be more unjust ?"

46 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

Did lie not rather advise them to do what was both disadvanta-
geous and unjust? May he not, as a public man, discard all
apprehension of ostracism, for being the superlatively just.

Catullus.

P. S. Some additional observations are reserved for another
paper.

ill.

Sept. 29th, 1792.

Aristides complains that the American has charged Mr. Jef-
ferson with being the patron and promoter of national disunion,
national insignificance, public disorder, and discredit. The Ameri-
can, however, has only affirmed, that " the real or pretended
political tenets of that gentleman tend " to those points.

The facts which have been established clearly demonstrate,
that, in the form in which it is made, the charge is well founded.

If Mr. Jefferson's opposition to the funding system, to the
bank, and to the other measures which are connected with the
administration of the national finances, had ceased, when those
measures had received the sanction of law ; nothing more could
have been said, than, he had transgressed the rules of official
decorum, in entering the lists against the head of another depart-
ment (between whom and himself there was a reciprocal duty to
cultivate harmony), that he had been culpable in pursuing a line
of conduct, which was calculated to sow the seeds of discord in
the executive branch of the government, in the infancy of its
existence.

But when his opposition extended beyond that point, when it
was apparent, that he wished to render odious, and of course to
subvert (for in a popular government these are convertible terms),
all those deliberate and solemn acts of the legislature, which had
become the pillars of the public credit, his conduct deserved to
be regarded with a still severer eye.

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 47

Whatever differences of opinion may have preceded those
acts, however exceptionable particular features in them may have
appeared to certain characters, there is no enlightened nor dis-
creet citizen but must agree, that they ought now to remain
undisturbed. To set afloat the funding system, after the faith of
the nation has been so deliberately and solemnly pledged to it —
after such numerous and extensive alienations of property for
full value have been made under its sanction — with adequate
revenues little burthensome to the people — in a time of profound
peace* — with not even the shadow of any public necessity — on
no better ground than that of theoretical and paradoxical dogmas
— would be one of the most wanton and flagitious acts, that ever
stained the annals of a civilized nation.

Yet positions tending to that disgraceful result have been
maintained, in public discourses, by individuals known to be de.
voted to the Secretary of State ; and have been privately smiled
upon as profound discoveries in political science.

Yet the less discreet, though not least important partizans of
that officer, talk familiarly of undoing the funding system as a
meritorious work. Yet his Gazette (which may fairly be re-
garded as the mirror of his views), after having labored for
months to make it an object of popular detestation, has at length
told us in plain and triumphant terms, that " the funding system
has had its day ;" and very clearly, if not expressly, that it is
the object of the party to overthrow it.

The American, then, has justly, and from sufficient data, in-
ferred, that Mr. Jefferson's politics, whatever may be the motives
of them, tend to national disunion, insignificance, disorder, and
discredit. That the subversion of the funding system would
produce national discredit proves itself. Loss of credit, the rea-
son being the same, must attend nations, as well as individuals
who voluntarily and without necessity, violate their formal and
positive engagements.

Insignificance and disorder, as applied to communities, equally

* The partial Indian hostilities which exist can hardly be deemed an interrup-
tion of the general peace.

48 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

with individuals, are the natural offspring of a loss of credit,
premeditatedly and voluntarily incurred.

Disunion would not long lag behind. Soberminded and virtu-
ous men in every State would lose all confidence in, and all respect
for a government, which has betrayed so much levity and incon-
stancy, so profligate a disregard to the rights of property and to
the obligations of good faith. Their support would of course be
so far withdrawn or relaxed, as to leave it an easy prey to its
enemies. These comprise the advocates for separate confedera-
cies ; the jealous partizans of unlimited sovereignty, in the State
governments — the never to be satiated lovers of innovation and
change — the tribe of pretended philosophers, but real fabricators
of chimeras and paradoxes, the Catalines and the Cassars of the
community (a description of men to be found in every repub-
lic), who, leading the dance to the tune of liberty without law,
endeavor to intoxicate the people with delicious but poisonous
draughts to render them the easier victims of their rapacious am-
bition ; the vicious and fanatical of every class who are ever
found the willing or deluded followers of those seducing and
treacherous leaders.

But this is not all — the invasion of sixty millions of pro-
perty could not be perpetrated without violent concussions. The
States, whose citizens, both as original creditors and purchasers
own the largest portions of the debt (and several such there are),
would not remain long bound in the trammels of a party which
had so grossly violated their rights. The consequences in expe-
riment would quickly awaken to a sense of injured right, and in-
terest such of them, whose representatives may have wickedly
embarked, or been ignorantly betrayed into the atrocious and
destructive project.

Where would all this end but in disunion and anarchy ? — in
national disgrace and humiliation ?

Aristides insinuates, that the American has distinguished Mr.
Jefferson, as " the Cataline of the day — the ambitious incendiary."
Those epithets are not to be found in either of the papers under
that signature. But the American has said, that Mr. Jefferson
"has been the prompter, open or secret, of unwarrantable asper-

jEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 49

sions on men, who, as long as actions, not merely professions,
shall be the true tests of patriotism and integrity, need never de-
cline a comparison with him of their titles to the public esteem,"
and he is supported in the assertion by facts.

Not to cite or trace those foul and pestilent whispers which,
clandestinely circulating through the country, have, as far as was
practicable, contaminated some of its fairest and worthiest cha-
acters, an appeal to known circumstances will justify the charge.

Some time since, there appeared in print certain speculations,
which have been construed into an advocation of hereditary dis-
tinctions in government. These (whether with or without
foundation, is to this moment matter of conjecture) were ascribed
to a particular character, pre-eminent for his early, intrepid
faithful, persevering and comprehensively useful services to his
country — a man, pure and unspotted in private life, a citizen
having a high and solid title to the esteem, the gratitude, and the
confidence of his fellow-citizens.

The first volume of the " Eights of Man," makes its appear-
ance. The opportunity is eagerly seized, to answer the double
purpose of wounding a competitor, and of laying in an additional
stock of popularity ; by associating and circulating the name of
Thomas Jefferson, with a popular production of a favorite writer,
on a favorite subject.

For this purpose, the Secretary of State sits down and pens
an epistle to a printer in the city of Philadelphia, transmitting
the work for republication, and expressing his approbation of it
in a way which we learn, from the preface of that printer to his
edition of the work, was calculated not only to do justice to the
rights of Mr. Paine, but to do honor to Mr. Jefferson ; by direct-
ing the mind to a contemplation of that republican firmness and
democratic simplicity, which ought to endear him to every friend
to the " Rights of Man."

The letter, as we learn from the same preface, contained the

following passages : "I am extremely pleased to find it will be

reprinted here, and that something is at length to be publicly

said against the political heresies which have sprung up among

G 4

50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

us." " I liave no doubt our citizens will rally a second time
round tlie standard of common sense."

There was not a man in the United States acquainted with
the insinuations which had been propagated, who did not in-
stantly apply the remark, and the signal was so well understood
by the partisans of the writer, that a general attack immediately
commenced. The newspapers in different States resounded with
invective and scurrility against the patriot, who was marked out
as the object of persecution, and if possible, of degradation.

Under certain circumstances, general expressions designate a
person or an object as clearly as an indication of it by name. So
it happened in the present case. The javelin went directly to its
destination.

But it was quickly perceived that discerning and respectable
men disapproved the step. It was of consequence to endeavor
to maintain their good opinion. Protestations and excuses as
frivolous as awkward were multiplied to veil the real design.

"The gentleman alluded to, never once entered into the
mind. It was never imagined that the printer would be so
incautious as to publish the letter or any part of it. Nothing
more was in view than to turn a handsome period, and avoid the
baldness of a note that did nothing but present the compliments
of the writer."

Thus a solemn invocation to the people of America, on the
most serious and important subject, dwindled at once into a
brilliant conceit, that tickled the imagination too much to be
resisted. The imputation of levity was preferred to that of

malice.

But when the people of America presented themselves to the
disturbed patriotic fancy, as a routed host, scattered and dispersed
by political sorcerers ; how was it possible to resist the heroic,
the chivalrous desire of erecting for them some magic standard
of orthodoxy, and endeavoring to rally them round it for mutual
protection and safety ?

In so glorious a cause, the considerations that a citizen of the
United States had written in a foreign country a book containing
strictures on the government of that country which would be

iET. 35.] CATULLUS. 51

regarded by it as libellous and seditious, tliat lie bad dedicated
tbis book to tbe Chief Magistrate of tbe Union, tbat a repub-
lication of it under tbe auspices of tbe Secretary of State, would
wear tbe appearance of its having been promoted, at least of its
being patronized by tbe government of tbis country, were con-
siderations too ligbt and unimportant to occasion a moment's
hesitation or pause.

Those who, after an attentive review of circumstances, can be
deceived by tbe artifices, which have been employed to varnish
over this very exceptionable proceeding, must understand little
of human nature, must be little read in the history of those arts
which in all countries and at all times have served to disguise
tbe machinations of factious and intriguing men.

The remaining circumstance of public notoriety, which fixes
upon Mr. Jefferson the imputation of being tbe prompter or
instigator of detraction, exists in his patronage of the National
Gazette.

Can any attentive reader of that Gazette, doubt for a moment
tbat it has been systematically devoted to the calumniating and
blackening of public characters ? Can it be a question, that a
main object of the paper is to destroy the public confidence in a
particular public character, who it seems is to be hunted down at
all events, for the unpardonable sin of having been the steady,
invariable, and decided friend of broad national principles of
government ? Can it be a question, that the persecution of tbe
officer alluded to, is agreeable to the views of the institutor of the
paper ?

Does all tbis proceed from motives purely disinterested and
patriotic ? Can none of a different complexion be imagined, that
may at least have operated to give a stimulus to patriotic zeal ?

No. Mr. Jefferson has hitherto been distinguished as the
quiet, modest, retiring philosopher ; as the plain, simple, unam-
bitious republican. He shall not now, for the first time, be
regarded as tbe intriguing incendiary, the aspiring turbulent
competitor.

How long it is since tbat gentleman's real character may have
been divined, or whether this is only tbe first time, that the secret

52 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 35.

has been disclosed, I am not sufficiently acquainted with the
history of his political life to determine ; but there is always a
"first time" when characters studious of artful disguises are
unveiled ; when the vizor of stoicism is plucked from the brow
of the epicurean ; when the plain garb of Quaker simplicity is
stripped from the concealed voluptuary ; when Cassar coyly re-
fusing the proffered diadem, is seen to be Caesar rejecting the
trappings, but tenaciously grasping the substance of imperial
domination.

It is not unusual to defend one post by attacking another.
Aristides has shown a disposition to imitate this policy. He by
clear implication tells us, and doubtless means it as a justification
of the person whom he defends, that attachment to aristocracy,
monarchy, hereditary succession, a titled order of nobility, and all
the mock pageantry of Kingly government, form the appropriate
and prominent features in the character to which he boasts Mr.
Jefferson's opposition, and which it seems to be a principal part
of the business of his Gazette to depreciate. This is no more
than what has been long matter for malevolent insinuation. I
mistake, however, the man to whom it is applied, if he fears the
strictest scrutiny into his political principles and conduct ; if he
does not wish there " were windows in the breast," and that
assembled America might witness the inmost springs of his
public actions. I mistake him— however a turn of mind less
addicted to dogmatizing than reasoning, less fond of hypotheses
than experience, may have led to speculative doubts concerning
the probable success of the republican theory — if he has not
uniformly and ardently, since the experiment of it began in the
United States, wished it success ; if he is not sincerely desirous
that the sublime idea of a perfect equality of rights among
citizens, exclusive of hereditary distinctions, may be practically
justified and realized ; and if among the sources of the regret
which his language and conduct have testified, at the overdriven
maxims and doctrines that too long withstood the establishment
of firm government in the United States, and now embarrass the
execution of the government which has been established, a
principal one has not been their tendency to counteract a fair

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 53

trial of tlie theory to which he is represented to be adverse. I
mistake him, if his measures proceeding upon the ground of a
liberal and efficient exercise of the powers of the national govern-
ment, have had any other object than to give it stability and
duration : the only solid and rational expedient for preserving repub-
lican government in the United States.

It has been pertinently remarked by a judicious writer, that
Ccesar, who overturned the republic, was the Whig, Cato, who died
for it, the Tory of Eome ; such, at least, was the common cant of
political harangues, the insidious tale of hypocritical dema-
gogues.

Catullus.

IV.

October 17th, 1792.

Attempts in different shapes have been made to repel the
charges which have been brought against the Secretary of State.
The defence of him, however, in the quarter in which he has
been principally assailed, has hitherto gone no further than a
mere show of defending him. I speak as to his improper con-
nection with the editor of the National Gazette. But a more
serious and more plausible effort has been made to obviate the
impression which arises from his having been originally an
objector to the present Constitution of the United States.

For this purpose several letters said to have been written by
Mr. Jefferson while in Europe have been communicated. How
far they are genuine letters or mere fabrications ; how far they
may have been altered or mutilated, is liable, from the manner of
their appearance, to question and doubt. It is observable also,
that the extract of a letter of the 6th July, contained in the
American Daily Advertiser of the 10th instant, though it seems
to be intended as part of the one which is mentioned in the
Debates of the Virginia Convention, does not answer to the de-
scription given of it by Mr. Pendleton, who professes to have

54 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35

seen it. For Mr. Pendleton expressly states with regard to that
letter, that Mr. Jefferson, after having declared his wish respecting
the issue of the deliberations upon the Constitution, proceeds to
enumerate the amendments which he wishes to be secured. The ex-
tract which is published, speaks only of a bill of rights, as the
essential amendment to be obtained by the rejection of four
States, which by no means satisfies the latitude of Mr. Pendle-
ton's expressions.

Such, nevertheless, as it is, it affords an additional confirma-
tion of that part of the American's statement, which represents
Mr. Jefferson as having advised the people of Virginia to adopt
or not upon a contingency.

It happens likewise, that the letters which have been com-
municated tend to confirm the only parts of the American's
statement of the sentiments and conduct of Mr. Jefferson, in
relation to the Constitution, which remained to be supported ;
namely, "that he was opposed to it in some of its most important
features, and at first went so far as to discountenance its adoption."
By this I understand without previous amendments.

From the first of those letters, dated "Paris, the 20th Decem-
ber, 1787," it appears that Mr. Jefferson among other topics of
objection " disliked, and greatly disliked, the abandonment of the
principle of rotation in office, and most particularly in the case of
President," from which the inference is clear, that he would have
wished the principle of rotation to have extended not only to the
executive, but to the other branches of the government, to the
Senate at least, as is explained hj a subsequent letter. This
objection goes to the structure of the government in a very im-
portant article ; and while it justifies the assertion that Mr. Jef-
ferson was opposed to the Constitution, in some of its most im-
portant features, it is a specimen of the visionary system of
politics of its author. Had it been confined to the office of Chief
Magistrate, it might have pretended not only to plausibility but
to a degree of weight and respectabilit}-. By being extended to
other branches of the government, it assumes a different charac-
ter, and evinces a mind prone to projects which are incompatible
with the principles of stable and systematic government, dis-

^Et. 35.] CATULLUS. 55

posed to multiply the outworks, and leave the citadel weak and
tottering.

But the fact not the merit of the objection is the material point.
In this particular, it comes fully up to the suggestion which has
been made.

It now only remains to see how far it is proved, that Mr.
Jefferson at first discountenanced the adoption of the Constitution
in its primitive form.

Of this, a person acquainted with the manner of that gentle-
man, and with the force of terms, will find sufficient evidence in
the following passage: " I do not 'pretend to decide, what would
be the best method of procuring the establishment of the man-
ifold good things in the Constitution, and of getting rid of the
bad : whether by adopting it in hopes of future amendment ;
or after it has been duly weighed and canvassed by the people :
after seeing the parts they generally dislike, and those they gene-
rally approve, to say to them, We see now what you wish — send
together your deputies again — let them frame a Constitution for
you, omitting wha* you have condemned, and establishing the
powers you approve."

Mr. Jefferson did not explicitly decide which of these two
modes was best, and while it is clear that he had not determined in
favor of an adoption without previous amendments, it is not
difficult to infer from the terms of expression employed, that he
preferred the last of the two modes ; a recurrence to a second
convention. The faintness of the phrase "in hopes of future
amendment," and the emphatical method of displaying the alter-
native, are sufficient indications of the preference he entertained.

The pains which he takes in the same letter to remove the
alarm naturally inspired by the insurrection which had happened
in Massachusetts, are an additional illustration of the same bias.
It is not easy to understand what other object his comments on
that circumstance could have, but to obviate the anxiety which
it was calculated to inspire, for an adoption of the Constitution,
without a previous experiment to amend it.

It is not possible to avoid remarking by the way, that these
comments afford a curious and characteristic sample of logic and

56 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \JErs. 35.

calculation. " One rebellion, in thirteen States, in the course of
eleven years, is but one for each State in a century and a half;"
while France, it seems, had had three insurrections in three
years. In the latter instance the subdivisions of the entire
nation are confounded in one mass ; in the former, they are the
ground of calculation. And thus a miserable sophism is gravely
made a basis of political consolation and conduct. For, accord-
ing to the data stated, it was as true that the United States had
had one rebellion in eleven years, endangering their common
safety and welfare, as that France had had three insurrections in
three years.

Thus it appears from the very documents produced in excul-
pation of Mr. Jefferson, that he in fact discountenanced, in the
first instance, the adoption of the Constitution, favoring the idea
of an attempt at previous amendments by a second convention ;
which is the only part of the allegation of the American that
remained to be established.

As to those letters of Mr. Jefferson which are subsequent to
his knowledge of the ratification of the Constitution by the
requisite number of States, they prove nothing but that Mr. Jef-
ferson was willing to play the politician.

They can at best only be received as acts of submission to
the opinion of the majority which he professes to believe infal-
lible, resigning to it, with all possible humility, not only his
conduct but his judgment.

It will be remarked that there appears to have been no want
of versatility in his opinions. They kept pace tolerably well
with the progress of the business, and were quite as accommo-
dating as circumstances seemed to require. On the 31st July,
1788, when the adoption of the Constitution was known, the
various and weighty objections of March, 1787, had resolved
themselves into the simple want of a bill of rights ; in November
following, on the strength of the authority of three States (over-
ruling in that instance the maxim of implicit deference for the
opinion of a majority), that lately solitary defect acquires a com-
panion in a revival of the objection to the perpetual re-eligibility
of the President. And another convention, which appeared no

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. .r>7

very alarming expedient while the entire Constitution was in
jeopardy, became an object to be deprecated, when partial amend-
ments to an already established Constitution were alone in
question.

From the fluctuations of sentiment which appear in the let-
ters that have been published, it is natural to infer, that had the
whole of Mr. Jefferson's correspondence on the subject been
given to the public, much greater diversities would have been
discovered.

In the preface to the publication of the letters under consid-
eration, the question is put, "Wherein was the merit or offence
of a favorable or unfavorable opinion of the Constitution, and to
whom rendered ?"

It is a sufficient answer to this question, as it relates to the
present discussion, to say, that the intimation which was given
of Mr. Jefferson's dislike of the Constitution, in the first instance,
was evidently not intended as the imputation of a positive
crime, but as one link in a chain of evidence tending to prove
that the National Gazette was conducted under his auspices, and
in conformity to his views.

After showing that the editor of that paper was in his pay,
and had been taken into it some short time previous to the
commencement of the publication, the inference resulting from
the circumstance, of that paper being a political engine, in his
hands, is endeavored to be corroborated, first, by the suggestion
that Mr. Jefferson had originally serious objections to the Con-
stitution ; secondly, by the further suggestion, that he has disap-
proved of most of the imporant measures adopted in the course
of the administration of the government.

■ In this light, and with this special reference, were those sug-
gestions made, and certainly as far as they are founded in fact,
the argument they afford is fair and forcible. A correspondency
of the principles and opinions of Mr. Jefferson, with the com-
plexion of a paper, the conductor of which is in the regular pay
of his department, is surely a strong confirmation of the conclu-
sion— that the paper is conducted under his influence, and agree-
ably to his views.

58 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 35.

Nothing but a known opposition of sentiment on the part of
Mr. Jefferson to the doctrines inculcated in the National Gazette,
could obviate the inference deducible from his ascertained and
very extraordinary connection with it. A coincidence of senti-
ments is a direct and irresistible confirmation of that inference.

An effort scarcely plausible has been made by another Aris-
tides* to explain away the turpitude of the advice, which was
given respecting the French debt. It is represented that a com-
pany of adventuring speculators had offered to purchase the debt
at a discount, foreseeing the delay of the payment, calculating
the probable loss, and willing to encounter the hazard. The
terms employed by Mr. Jefferson refute this species of apology.
His words are : " If there is a danger of the public payments not
being punctual, I submit whether it may not be better, that the
discontents which would then arise, should be transferred from a
court, of whose good ivill ive have so much need, to the breasts of a
private company."

He plainly takes it for granted that discontents ivoidd arise
from the want of an adequate provision, and proposes that they
should be transferred to the breasts of individuals. This he could
not have taken for granted if, in his conception, the purchasers
had calculated on delay and loss.

The true construction then is, that the company expected to
purchase at an under value, from the probability that the court
of France might be willing to raise a sum of money on this fund,
at a sacrifice, — supposing that the United States, counting on her
friendly indulgence, might be less inclined to press the reim-
bursement, not that they calculated on material delay or neglect
when the transfer should be made to them. They probably
made a very different calculation (to wit), that as it would be ruin-
ous to the credit of the United States abroad, to neglect any part
of its debt which was contracted there with individuals, from the
impossibility of one part being distinguishable from another in
the public apprehension ; this consideration would stimulate to

* The total dissimilarity of style and manner, leaves no doubt that the writer
of the first piece signed " Aristides," is a different person from the writer of the
last. The forces are well marshalled.

jEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 59

exertions to provide for it. And so it is evident, from his own
words, that Mr. Jefferson understood it.

But the persons who offered to purchase were speculators.
The cry of speculation as usual is raised, and this, with some
people, is the panacea, the universal cure for fraud and breach
of faith.

It is true, as alleged, that Mr. Jefferson mentioned an alter-
native, the obtaining of money by new loans, to reimburse the
court of France ; but this is not mentioned in any way that de-
rogates from, or waives the advice given in the first instance.
He merely presents an alternative, in case the first idea should be
disapproved.

It may be added, that the advice respecting the transfer of
the debt was little more honorable to the United States as it re-
garded the court of France, than as it respected the Dutch com-
pany. "What a blemish on our national character, that a debt
of so sacred a nature should have been transferred at so consi-
derable a loss to so meritorious a creditor !

A still less plausible effort has been made to vindicate the
National Gazette from the charge of being a paper devoted to
the calumniating and depreciating the government of the United
States. No original performance in defence of the government
or its measures, has, it is said, been refused by the editor of that
paper. A few publications of that tendency have appeared in it,
principally, if not wholly, since the public detection of the situa-
tion of its conductor.

What a wretched apology ! Because the partiality has not
been so daring and unprecedented, as to extend to a refusal of
original publications in defence of the government, a paper
which industriously copies every inflammatory publication against
it that appears in any part of the United States ; and carefully
avoids every answer which is given to them, even when specially
handed to the editor for the purpose, is not to be accounted a
malicious and pernicious engine of detraction and calumny to-
wards the government ! ! !

But happily here no proof nor argument is necessary. The
true character and tendency of the paper may be left to the evi-

60 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

dence of every reader's senses and feelings. And Aristides, as
often as he looks over that paper, must blush, if he can blush, at
the assertion " that it has abounded since its commencement with
publications in favor of the measures of the government."

Deception, however artfully veiled, seldom fails to betray
some unsound part. Aristides assures us that Mr. Jefferson
" has actually refused in any instance to mark a single paragraph,
which appeared in the foreign prints, for republication in the
National Gazette." On what ground was such an application to
Mr. Jefferson made, if he was not considered as the patron of the
paper ? What printer would make a similar application to the
head of any other department ? I verily believe none. And I
consider the circumstance stated as a confirmation of the relation
of patron and client between the Secretary of State and the
editor of the National Gazette.

The refusal, if it happened, is one of those little under-plots,
with which the most intriguing man in the United States is at
no loss, to keep out of sight the main design of the drama.

Catullus.

METELLTJS.

October 24, 1792.
The votaries of Mr. Jefferson, whose devotion for their idol
kindles at every form in which he deigns to present himself,
have deduced matter of panegyric from his opposition to the
measures of the government. 'Tis according to them the sub-
limest pitch of virtue in him, not only to have extra-officially
embarrassed plans, originating with his colleagues in the course
of their progress, but to have continued his opposition to them,
after they had been considered and enacted by the legislature,
with such modifications as appeared to them proper, and had

vEt. 35.] METELLUS. 61

been approved by the chief magistrate. Such conduct, it seems,
marks " a firm and virtuous independence of character." If any
proof were wanting of that strange inversion of the ideas of de-
corum, propriety, and order, which characterizes a certain party,
this making a theme of encomium of what is truly a demonstra-
tion of a caballing, self-sufficient, and refractory temper, would
afford it.

In order to show that the epithets have been misapplied, I
shall endeavor to state what course a firm and virtuous indepen-
dence of character, guided by a just and necessary sense of de-
corum would dictate to a man in the station of Mr. Jefferson.

This has been rendered more particularly requisite by the
formal discussion of the point, which appears to be the object of
a continuation of a defence of that gentleman, in the American
Daily Advertiser of the 10th inst.

The position must be reprobated that a man who had accept-
ed an office in the Executive Department, should be held to
throw the weight of his character into the scale, to support a
measure which in his conscience lie disapproved, and in his station
had opposed — or, that the members of the administration should
form together a close and secret combination, into whose measures
the profane eye of the public should in no instance pry. But
there is a very obvious medium between aiding or countenancing,
and intriguing and machinating against a measure ; between op-
posing it in the discharge of an official duty, or volunteering an
opposition to it in the discharge of no duty ; between entering
into a close and secret combination with the other members of
an administration, and being the active leader of an opposition
to its measures.

The true line of propriety appears to me to be the following:
A member of the administration, in one department, ought only
to aid those measures of another which he approves — where he
disapproves, if called upon to act officially, he ought to manifest
his disapprobation, and avow his opposition, but out of an official
line he ought not to interfere as long as he thinks fit to continue a
part of the administration. When the measure in question has be-
come a law of the land, especially with a direct sanction of the

62 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

chief magistrate, it is peculiarly his duty to acquiesce. A contrary
conduct is inconsistent with his relations as an officer of the go-
vernment, and with a due respect as such for the decisions of the
legislature, and of the head of the Executive Department. The
line here delineated, is drawn from obvious and very important
considerations. The success of every government — its capacity
to combine the exertion of public strength with the preservation
of personal right and private security, qualities which define the
perfection of a government, must always naturally depend on
the energy of the Executive Department. This energy again
must materially depend on the union and mutual deference which
subsist between the members of that department, and the confor-
mity of their conduct with the views of the executive chief.

Difference of opinion between men engaged in any common
pursuit, is a natural appendage of human nature. When only ex-
erted in the discharge of a duty, with delicacy and temper, among
liberal and sensible men, it can create no animosity ; but when it
produces officious interferences, dictated by no call of duty —
when it volunteers a display of itself in a quarter where there is
no reponsibility, to the obstruction and embarrassment of one
who is charged with an immediate and direct responsibility, it
must necessarily beget ill-humor and discord between the parties.
Applied to the members of the executive administration of any
government, it must necessarily tend to occasion, more or less,
distracted councils, to foster factions in the community, and prac-
tically to weaken the government.

Moreover, the heads of the several Executive Departments
are justly to be viewed as auxiliaries to the executive chief. Op-
position to any measure of his, by either of those heads of de-
partments, except in the shape of frank, firm, and independent
advice to himself, is evidently contrary to the relations which
subsist between the parties. And it cannot well be controverted
that a measure becomes his, so as to involve the duty of acquies-
cence on the part of the members of his administration, as well
by its having received his sanction in the form of a law, as by its
having previously received his approbation.

In the theory of our government, the chief magistrate is him-

Mt. 35.] ME TELL US. 63

self responsible for the exercise of every power vested in him
by the Constitut^m. One of the powers intrusted to him, is that
of objecting to bills which have passed the two houses of Con-
gress. This supposes the duty of objecting, when he is of opi-
nion that the object of any bill is either unconstitutional or perni-
cious. The approbation of a bill implies, that he does not think
it either the one or the other ; and it makes him responsible to
the community for this opinion. The measure becomes his by
adoption, nor could he escape a portion of the blame which should
finally attach itself to a bad measure, to which he had given his
consent.

I am prepared for some declamation agaiast the principles
which have been laid down. Some plausible flourishes have
already been indulged ; and it is to be expected that the public
ear will be still further assailed with the commonplace topics that
so readily present themselves, and are so dexterously detailed by
the traffickers in popular prejudices. But it need never be feared
to submit a solid truth to the deliberate and final opinion of an
enlightened and sober people.

What! (it will probably he asked,) is a man to sacrifice his
conscience and his judgment to an office? Is he to be a dumb
spectator of measures which he deems subversive of the rights or
interests of his fellow-citizens ? Is he to postpone to the frivolous
rules of a false complaisance, or the arbitrary dictates of a tyran-
nical decorum, the higher duty which he owes to the com-
munity ?

I answer, no ! he is to do none of these things. If he cannot
coalesce with those with whom he is associated, as far as the rules
of official decorum, propriety, and obligation may require, with-
out abandoning what he conceives to be the true interest of the
community, let him place himself in a situation in which he will
experience no collision of opposite duties. Let him not cling to
the honor or emolument of an office, whichever it may be that
attracts him, and content himself with defending the injured
rights of the people by obscure or indirect means. Let him
renounce a situation which is a clog upon his patriotism ; tell
the people that he could no longer continue in it without forfeit-

64 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 35.

ing his duty to them, and that he had quitted it to be more at
liberty to afford them his best services. -

Such is the course which would be indicated by a firm and
virtuous independence of character. Such the course that would
be pursued by a man attentive to unite the sense of delicacy
with the sense of duty — in earnest about the pernicious tendency
of public measures, and more solicitous to act the disinterested
friend of the people, than the interested ambitious and intriguing
head of a party.

Metellus.

CATULLUS.

Nov. 24, 1792.

It was my intention to have closed with my last paper the
discussion of Mr. Jefferson's conduct, in the particulars which
have been suggested, but the singular complexion of the last
number* of a series of papers originating in the American Daily
Advertiser, obliges me to resume it.

As if bold assertion were capable of imposing any thing for
truth, an attempt is made in the papers alluded to, to impress
the following opinions : — 1st. That the extract which was given
of Mr. Jefferson's letter, on the subject of a proposition for the
transfer of the French debt, is "false," "deceptive," and "mu-
tilated." These are the epithets in different passages applied to
it. 2d. That Mr. Jefferson was the mere vehicle, or, to use the
precise terms, "only the vehicle of communication to Congress."
3d. That he "discountenanced" the proposition. 4th. That the
" only " proposition which he made to Congress was to borrow
the money in Holland to discharge the debt.

* No. IV.

Mr. 35. J CATULLUS. 65

To give color to these assertions, I am called upon to produce
the entire paragraph, from which the extract has been made, and
it is suggested that the whole was deposited in the quarter from
whence the extract is believed to have been taken.

I pledge my veracity that this suggestion is unfounded ; as is
another — that the information which has been communicated by
me is derived from the opportunities of official situation. I
affirm unequivocally that I obtained, through different channels,
a full knowledge of the transaction in February, 1787 — being in
no public station whatever — that I then saw the extract, which
has been published, and which was at that time taken from the
original letter, and has been since preserved in the most authentic
form. That I then also received information equally authentic
of the general. substance of the letter, as relating to the matter in
question, and of all other particulars concerning it, which have
heretofore been stated, and which have been preserved in a man-
ner, that admits no doubt of their accuracy or genuineness. For
this, I again appeal to the letter itself, on the files of the Depart-
ment of State, where alone, as far as I am informed, its entire
contents are deposited, and which I entertain no doubt will con-
firm not only the truth of the extract which has been given, but
the justness of the representation of the contents of the letter in
all other respects.

Considering the extract as genuine, which undoubtedly it is,
it speaks for itself — and unequivocally falsifies the suggestion that
Mr. Jefferson was "only the vehicle" of communication to Con-
gress. It imports, without the possibility of evasion, advice to
accede to the proposition which was made to the Dutch company,
on the dishonorable ground of there being danger, that the public
payments would not be punctual, and of its being in that case ex-
pedient to transfer the discontents, which would arise from the
want of punctuality, from the court of France to the breasts of a
private company. It therefore clearly makes him more than the
mere vehicle of communication — the patron and adviser of the
measure upon the condition which has been stated. It as clearly
refutes the astonishing assertion that he " discountenanced " the
proposition, whatever subterfuge may be brought to color it.
G 5

66 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 35.

And it equally destroys the other allegation, that the only propo-
sition which Mr. Jefferson made to Congress, was to borrow the
money in Holland to discharge the debt.

It has been admitted, that there was another proposition, in
the same letter, of that import ; but it is denied, under the appeal
which has been made, that it in any maimer derogates from the
advice contained in the extract. It is understood to have been
offered as an alternative, in case the proposition of the Dutch
company should not be approved— as another mode which
might be adopted to effect the payment to France.

It will be remarked by an attentive reader, that while an art-
ful attempt is made to bring into question the genuineness of the
extract, a direct denial of its genuineness is not hazarded. Re-
course is had to equivocal implications. It is said, to be "false"
and " deceptive," not in terms, but " upon a sound construction,"

that "the contents of the letter, even in the extract published,

have been shamefully misrepresented" — not that the extract is itself
a forgery, but that " other parts of the letter, absolutely necessary
for the full comprehension of it, are kept back." The jargon of
asserting, that a literal extract from a paper is " false and decep-
tive upon a sound construction'' is a proof of the embarrassment
of the commentator. Whoever will examine the extract will
perceive, that as to the purpose to which it has been applied, it
is an entire thing. The sentiment reprobated, is there complete,
and can be affected by nothing collateral. The inferences result-
ing from it can only be repelled by establishing that the extract
is in terms false. This, I believe, will not be pretended.

It is as little true (in the sense in which it is evidently meant
to be understood) that the proposition for the transfer of the debt
has been imposed upon Mr. Jefferson as his own, as it is that he
discountenanced it. It has been acknowledged that the offer
was first made by the Dutch company; and has only been
maintained that Mr. Jefferson advised its acceptance on principles
contrary to good morals ; a position which can never be over,
thrown without introducing a new system of ethics. In this
sense, too, and with the disapprobation which belongs to it, was
it understood by those to whom the advice was addressed, to the
honor of the public councils of the day.

jEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 67

It is suggested that the animadversions upon Mr. Jefferson's
conduct in these papers proceed from "private revenge." This
supposes some private injury, real or imagined. The assertor
must be not a little embarrassed to support the probability of
such a cause. It is affirmed that none such exists. Private
revenge, therefore, cannot be the stimulus. Let facts speak the
true motives.

Catullus.

VI.

Deer. 22d, 1792.

If perseverance can supply the want of judgment, Mr. Jef-
ferson has an excellent advocate in the writer of his " vindica-
tion." But I mistake, if his last attempt is not found to involve
still more deeply the character he wishes to extricate.

To repel the imputation on Mr. Jefferson arising from the
advice which he gave to Congress respecting the debt to France,
he not only labors to show that, taken in all its circumstances,
it is not of the exceptionable complexion under which it has been
represented, but endeavors to infuse a belief, that the sense of
the extract originally communicated has been altered by the
interpolation of certain words, as well as by the suppression of a
part of a paragraph, from which the extract is derived.

It will strike the most careless observer as not a little extra-
ordinary, that a person who by undertaking to state the contents
of a letter with precise accuracy, and even to detect a minute
verbal deviation, must be understood to have access to the
original, should, instead of submitting to the public eye a literal
transcript of that original, content himself with giving his own
paraphrase of it, and should expect that this would be accepted
upon the strength of his assurance, that it exhibits the genuine
contents of the letter, on the point in dispute contained in one
paragraph only — " that the arrangement of the idea is the same,
and that in substance nothing has been added to or taken from

68 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

it," thus modestly offering his own construction of substance, the
very thing in question, for the thing itself.

That the extract, as given by me, is correct in every material
expression, is proved by the statement in the Vindication. That
it is literally correct, I must continue to believe until something
more to be depended upon than constructive substance is offered in
lieu of it.

The information I possess is drawn from two sources ; one a
memorandum in the handwriting of a friend, which was given to
me as an exact transcript of the words of the letter, and which
was copied verbatim, in the second of these papers : the other, a
document of unquestionable authenticity, not long since consulted,
which states the contents of Mr. Jefferson's letter in the following
form : —

Mr. Jefferson suggests that " if there is a danger of the public
payments not being punctual, v:hether it might not be better that
the discontents which would then arise, should be transferred
from a court, of whose good will we have so much need, to the
breasts of a private company."

"That the credit of the United States is sound in Holland,
and that it would probably not be difficult to borrow in that
country the whole sum of money due to the court of France ;
and to discharge that debt without any deduction, thereby doing
what would be grateful to the court, and establishing with them
a confidence in our honor."

This statement in the document alluded to serves to confirm
the memorandum, in form as well as substance. Speaking in the
third person, it represents Mr. Jefferson as suggesting " whether it
might not be better, &c," whence it is natural to infer, that
speaking in the first person in the letter, the terms are, " I sub-
mit whether it may not be better, &c."

The form of conveying the idea by way of question is
common to both vouchers ; and the word " whether," which is
also common to both, presupposes the words "I suggest," or "I
submit," the last being the most accurate, and in that view the
most likely to have been used.

It is observable, also, that the same statement disconnects the

JEt. 35.] CATULLUS. 69

two propositions, and gives them a distinct and independent aspect.
The conjunction " but," which is alleged to be in the original,
does not appear in that statement.

It is possible, nevertheless, that some immaterial departures
from literal precision may have found their way into the tran-
scripts, which are relied upon. But while this concession as a
bare possibility is made, it is not intended as an escape from a
rigorous responsibility for the essential accuracy of the disclosure.
If there be in what has been communicated as a literal extract,
any expression the least material, tending to the crimination of Mr.
Jefferson, which is not to be found in the original, it is admitted
to be inexcusable. But not having been possessed of the original,
as has been several times stated, any accidental variation of
expression, not affecting at all the sense of the quotation, or not
affecting it disadvantageously to Mr. Jefferson, cannot be admitted
to be of moment in regard either to the merits of the discussion
or to the fairness of the procedure. To press such a variance as
an objection, is to cavil, and to betray a consciousness of weak-
ness.

Now it happens that the variance which is alleged to exist,
if it has any influence upon the meaning of the passage, has one
favorable to Mr. Jefferson ; taking it for granted that his apolo-
gist has given a true account of it. This will be seen by care-
fully contrasting the phraseology in the two cases.

The extract as stated by me, is in these words, " If there is a
clanger of the •public payments not being punctual, I submit whether
it may not be better that the discontents which would then arise, should
be transferred from a court, of whose good will we have so much need,
to the breasts of a private company P

The statement in the vindication represents that Mr. Jefferson
" having stated the proposition as above (referring to the propo-
sition for the purchase of the debt), observes further upon it in its
relation to this country, that if there be a danger our payments
may not be punctual, it might be better that the discontents
which would then arise, should be transferred from a court, of
whose good will we have so much need, to the breasts of a private
company."

70 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 35.

All the material and exceptionable phrases are the same in
the two statements. The only difference between them is, that
in the first Mr. Jefferson is made to submit in the modest form of
a question, " whether it might not be better" the identical sentiment
or advice, which, in the last, he is made to convey in the affirma-
tive tone of an observation, that " it might be better." The last
mode of expression is certainly stronger than the first, and if the
sentiment conveyed be, as it undoubtedly is, an improper one,
the censure due to it is increased by the greater degree of decision
with which it is expressed, as being an indication of a more
decided state of mind concerning it. This remark, which might
otherwise appear nice and critical, is naturally drawn forth by
the attempt to have it understood that the words " / submit
whether" which are said to have been interpolated, have an
influence upon the sense of the clause injurious to Mr. Jefferson.*

The result is, that the alteration of terms said to have been
made, if real, must have been casual, because it either does not
vary the sense, or varies it favorably to Mr. Jefferson ; and con-
sequently, that the charge which has been brought rests upon
him in its primitive force, unmitigated by the alleged change of
terms.

In like manner, admitting the statement of what is said to
follow as a part of the same paragraph, to be truly represented
in the vindication, it either corresponds with the view I have
heretofore given of the matter, or it implicates Mr. Jefferson in
greater reprehensibility than has been yet charged upon him. It
either presents an alternative proposition predicated upon the
supposition of a state of things different from that which is the basis
of the first, namely, the danger of a deficiency of means for
punctual payment, and in that case does not derogate from the
first ; or proceeding upon the supposition of the same state of
things, it contains advice to Congress to avail themselves of the
yet sound state of their credit in Holland, treacherously to induce
individuals upon the invitation of the government to lend their

* The words " might not be better," arc also said to have been interpolated,
though all but the " not '" are in the quotation made by the Vindicator ; a specimen of
his accuracy.

,Et. 35.] CATULLUS. 71

money on the ordinary terms, for the purpose of making full pay-
ment to France, in order to guard her from loss, and preserve
her confidence, in direct contemplation of not being able to
render the stipulated justice to those individuals. If this was
the advice of Mr. Jefferson, it leaves his conduct without even
those slight extenuations which have been supposed to afford a
semblance of apology. It takes away the feeble pretexts deduced
from the offer having originated with the company, and from
their gaining a considerable boon in the first purchase.

The last, I acknowledge, is the construction best warranted
by the structure of the paragraph as delineated in the vindication.
This, as it there stands, would be the most obvious and natural
reading. If there be a danger that our payments may not be
punctual, it may be better that the discontents which would then
arise should be transferred from a court, of whose good will we
have so much need, to the breasts of a private company. But
still it has occurred to me that we may do what is preferable to
accepting the proposition of the Dutch company. We may find
occasion to do what would be grateful to the court of France, and
establish with them a confidence in our honor. Our credit is
good in Holland — may it not be possible then to borrow there
the four and twenty millions due to France, and pay them the
whole debt at once ? This, besides transferring the discontents to
be expected from the want of punctual payments, from the court
of France to the breasts of individuals, would have the further
advantage of saving that court from any loss on our account. It
is in this sense only, that the first suggestion can be considered
as overruled by, or absorbed in the last, and that Mr. Jefferson
can be said to have discountenanced the proposition made by the
Dutch company. If this be the meaning intended to be con-
tended for, no pains will be taken to dispute it ; and the comment
will be left to Mr. Jefferson's most partial admirers.

The writer of the vindication continues to insist that Mr. Jef-
ferson was only the vehicle of communication, assigning as
reasons for this assertion, that the transaction had taken place
between the parties, before any mention was made of it to him,
and that in communicating it to Congress, he only made known

72 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 35.

to that body the desire both of the company and of the French
court, that the opinion which he gave arose out of the proposition,
was in furtherance of the views of the parties, and that, in fact, no
decision could be formed on it, either by the Congress, or himself,
without a comparison of the parties as creditors of the United
States. But these reasons do not prove that Mr. Jefferson was
only the vehicle of communication, they prove the contrary ;
that he was both the vehicle of communication, and the patron,
though not the author of the proposition. The precise difference
between being the mere vehicle, and being both the vehicle and
the patron of a proposition, consists in this : that in the first case
the agent does nothing more than communicate the proposition ;
in the last, he gives an opinion arising out of it, in furtherance
of the views of the proposers ; which is exactly what is acknow-
ledged to have been done by Mr. Jefferson.

The plea that there could be no immoralitg or indelicacy, in
espousing a proposition coming from the parties interested,
amounts to nothing. The charge is not that advice was given
to accede to the proposition, but that advice was given to
accede to it, upon a ground which was dishonorable and unjust.
It is the condition upon which the acceptance is advised that
constitutes the culpability.

In No. 4 of the vindication, the attack upon Mr. Jefferson is
said to proceed from private revenge. In No. 5, it changes its na-
ture, and becomes an attack upon principles — a monarchical plot
against the republican character of the community. How long
and how often are the people of America to be insulted with this
hypocritical rant ? When will these political pharisees learn
that their countrymen have too much discernment to be the dupes
of their hollow and ostentatious pretensions? That the citi-
zens know how to distinguish the men who serve them from
those who only flatter them, the men who have substantial claims
to their confidence from those who study to conceal the want of
qualities, really solid and useful, under the mask of extraordi-
nary and exclusive patriotism and purity?

It is curious to observe the pathetic wailings which have been
produced by the animadversions in these papers. It would seem

Mt. 35.] CATULLUS. 73

as if a certain party considered themselves as the sole and right-
ful censors of the Republic ; and every attempt to bestow praise
or blame not originating with them, as an usurpation of their
prerogative, every stricture on any of their immaculate band as
a breach of their privilege. They appear to think themselves
authorized to deal out anathemas, without measure or mercy,
against all who dare to swerve from their standard of political
orthodoxy, which are to be borne without retaliation or murmur.
And if any symptom of either shows itself, they are sure to raise
the dismal cry of persecution ; themselves the first to assail, and
the first to complain. But what is not permitted to men who have
so clearly established a title, little less than divine, to a mono-
poly of all the patriotic virtues !

The only answer which is due to the feint of offering to enter
into arrangements for ascertaining whether the writer of these
papers has, in the instance under consideration, been guilty of
misrepresentation — and the breach of an official duty — is to re-
mind the public, that in my first paper I declared myself willing
to be known on proper terms to the officer concerned. To this
I adhere in the spirit of the original intimation, but I deem a
personal disclosure to any subaltern of his improper; nor do I
perceive that it is in the present case necessary to an investigation
of the fticts. The writer of the vindication admits in substance
what is alleged ; and as to his collateral statements, it has been
shown that they imply more blame on the character meant to be
exculpated than was origiually charged. I forbear any comment
on the indecency of naming upon conjecture the person who
has been named as the author of these papers, or upon the palpa-
ble artifice of making an avowal of them, by that particular per-
son, the condition of a disclosure of the name of the writer of
the vindication. Indecency and artifice are the proper weapons
of such adversaries.

Catullus.

74 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J3x. 35.

A PLAIN HONEST MAN.

For the Gazette of the United States.

1792.

In consequence of the intimation contained in the first number
of the vindication of Mr. Jefferson, which originated in the Ame-
rican Daily Advertiser, that, "if any doubt should be suggested
of the authenticity of the extracts published, they should be im-
mediately made accessible to others," a person called upon
Mr. Dunlap to obtain an inspection of those originals. He re-
plied that they had not been left with him, neither was he pos-
sessed of the necessary information where to direct or inquire,
but if desired he would, by advertisement, notify the application
for a perusal of the letters.

A statement of this answer, as extraordinary as unexpected,
was prepared to be inserted, in this Gazette, and was communicat-
ed to Mr. Dunlap with a view to verify its accuracy. The even-
ing before that destined for its appearance, Mr. D. called upon
the person and informed him that the originals were now to be
seen, and would be communicated to any person who might in-
cline to see them, observing, at the same time, that it appeared to
him that it could not be necessary to publish the statement
which has been mentioned, as intended. This was accordingly
foreborne.

On the 17th November, Mr. D. was again applied to and
again proposed an advertisement, but afterwards hinted, as a pre-
liminary condition of the letters being seen, that the person in
whose possession the letters were should be made acquainted
with the name of the person who applied for that purpose. Mr.
D. afterwards said he would apply again for the letters and have
them in his own possession to show them, agreeable to the decla-
ration published— but after this, being again applied to, answer-
ed as before, that the applicant must be previously known.

Mt. 36.]

OBSERVER. 75

On the a note appeared in Mr. Dimlap's paper of

that day, which, after commenting on the disingenuousness of
some doubts hinted in one of the papers, under the signature of
Catullus, gives "notice that any gentleman of known honor and
delicacy who shall be named to the editor of the American Daily
Advertiser, shall have an opportunity of examining not only the
passages extracted, but the entire contents of the original letter."

What gentleman of real delicacy would be willing to present
himself under the professed character of a " gentleman of known
honor and delicacy," at the hazard of being affronted by a rejec-
tion to obtain the proffered access ? Is not an offer so clogged
a felo de se ? What is the natural inference ? If I am not, Mr.
Printer, a " gentleman of known honor and delicacy," I hope
you will not think the worse of me for being only

A Plain Honest Man.

OBSERVER,

1793.
Among the observations which have appeared as containing
the debates in congress, respecting the official conduct of the Secre-
tary of the Treasury, Mr. Findley is represented as having made
the following assertions : '' That the Secretary of the Treasury
had acknowledged that he had not applied the money borrowed in
Europe agreeably to the legal appropriations of the President. That
he had acknowledged his having drawn to this country, and ap-
plied in Europe to uses for which other moneys were appropriated,
three millions of dollars. — That he had acknowledged his having
drawn from Europe more money than the law authorized him to
do. — That he was influenced to do so by motives not contemplat-
ed by the law, and had either applied it, or drawn it from Eu-
rope, with the design of applying it to uses not authorized, and

76 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Ma. 36-

that he had broken in upon the fund appropriated for the dis-
charge of the French debt."

Before I read this speech I had carefully perused the different
communications made bjr the Secretary of the Treasury to the
House of Representatives, and after reading it I was led to revise
them. The result has been that I have found all these assertions
attributed to Mr. Findley either direct untruths or palpable mis-
representations, and I challenge Mr. Findley or any of his friends
to produce the passages which will warrant them. The truth is,
that Mr. Findle}' has palmed upon the Secretary his own reason-
ings and inferences for points conceded by him. The commen-
tary has been substituted for the text.

Observer.

PACIFICUS.

NO. I.

June 29th, 1793.

As attempts are making, very dangerous to the peace, and,
it is to be feared, not very friendly to the Constitution of the
United States, it becomes the duty of those who wish well to
both, to endeavor to prevent their success.

The objections which have been raised against the proclama-
tion of neutrality, lately issued by the president, have been
urged in a spirit of acrimony and invective, which demonstrates
that more was in view than merely a free discussion of an im-
portant public measure. They exhibit evident indications of a
design to weaken the confidence of the people in the author of
the measure, in order to remove or lessen a powerful obstacle to
the success of an opposition to the government, which, however
it may change its form according to circumstances, seems still to
be persisted in with unremitting industry.

This reflection adds to the motives connected with the mea-

JEt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 77

sure itself, to recommend endeavors, by proper explanations, to
place it in a just light. Such explanations, at least, cannot but
be satisfactory to those who may not themselves have leisure or
opportunity for pursuing an investigation of the subject, and who
may wish to perceive that the policy of the government is not
inconsistent with its obligations or its honor.

The objections in question fall under four heads :

1. That the proclamation was without authority.

2. That it was contrary to our treaties with France.

3. That it was contrary to the gratitude which is due from
this to that country, for the succors afforded to us in our own
revolution.

4. That it was out of time and unnecessary.

In order to judge of the solidity of the first of these objec-
tions, it is necessary to examine what is the nature and design of
a proclamation of neutrality.

It is to make Jcnoivn to the powers at war, and to the citizens
of the country whose government does the act, that such country
is in the condition of a nation at peace with the belligerent
parties, and under no obligations of treaty to become an associate
in the tear with either, and that this being its situation, its inten-
tion is to observe a corresponding conduct, by performing
towards each the duties of neutrality ; to warn all persons within
the jurisdiction of that country, to abstain from acts that shall
contravene those duties, under the penalties which the laws of
the land, of which the /us gentium is part, will inflict.

This, and no more, is conceived to be the true import of a
proclamation of neutrality.

It docs not imply that the nation which makes the declara-
tion will forbear to perform to either of the warring jjowers any
stipulations in treaties which can be executed, without becoming
& party in the war. It therefore does not imply in our case that
the United States will not make those distinctions, between the
present belligerent powers, which are stipulated in the 7th and
22d articles of our treaty with France ; because they are not
incompatible with the state of neutrality ; and will in no shape
render the United States an associate or party in the war. This

78 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

must be evident, when it is considered that even to furnish
determinate succors of ships or troops to a power at war, in
consequence of antecedent treaties having no 'particular reference to
the existing quarrel, is not inconsistent with neutrality : a position
equally well established by the doctrines of writers and the
practice of nations.*

But no special aids, succors, or favors; having relation to
war, not positively and precisely stipulated by some treaty of the
above description, can be afforded to either party, without a
breach of neutrality.

In stating that the proclamation of neutrality does not imply
the non-performance of any stipulations of treaties, which are not
of a nature to make the nation an associate in the war, it is con-
ceded that an execution of the clause of guaranty, contained in
the eleventh article of our treaty of alliance with France, would
be contrary to the sense and spirit of the proclamation ; because
it would engage us with our whole force as an auxiliary in the
war ; it would be much more than the case of a definite succor,
previously ascertained.

It follows, that the proclamation is virtually a manifestation
of the sense of the government, that the United States are, under
the circumstances of the case, not bound to execute the clause of
guaranty.

If this be a just view of the force and import of the proclama-
tion, it will remain to see, whether the president, in issuing it,
acted within his proper sphere, or stepped beyond the bounds of
his constitutional authority and duty.

It will not be disputed, that the management of the affairs of
this country with foreign nations is confided to the government
of the United States.

It can as little be disputed, that a proclamation of neutrality,
when a nation is at liberty to decline or avoid a war in which
other nations are engaged, and means to do so, is a usual and a
proper measure. Its main object is to prevent the 7iation's being
responsible for acts done by its citizens, ivithout the privity or conni-

* See Vatel, Book III., Chap. 6: Sec. 101.

Mi. 36.] PACIFICUS. 79

vance of the government, in contravention of the principles of neu-
trality ;* an object of the greatest moment to a country whose
true interest lies in the preservation of peace.

The inquiry then is, what department of our government is
the proper one to make a declaration of neutrality, when the
engagements of the nation permit, and its interests require that
it should be done ?

A correct mind will discern at once, that it can belong neither
to the legislative nor judicial department, of course must belong
to the executive.

The legislative department is not the organ of intercourse
between the United States and foreign nations. It is charged
neither with making nor interpreting treaties. It is therefore not
naturally that member of the government, which is to pronounce
the existing condition of the nation, with regard to foreign
powers, or to admonish the citizens of their obligations and duties
in consequence ; still less is it charged with enforcing the obser-
vance of those obligations and duties.

It is equally obvious, that the act in question is foreign to the
judiciary department. The province of that department is to
decide litigations in particular cases. It is indeed charged with
the interpretation of treaties, but it exercises this function only
where contending parties bring before it a specific controversy.
It has no concern with pronouncing upon the external political
relations of treaties between government and government. This
position is too plain to need being insisted upon.

It must then of necessity belong to the executive department
to exercise the function in question, when a proper case for it
occurs.

It appears to be connected with that department in various
capacities : — As the organ of intercourse between the nation and
foreign nations ; as the interpreter of the national treaties, in those
cases in which the judiciary is not competent, that is, between
government and government ; as the power which is charged
with the execution of the laws, of which treaties form a part; as

* See Vatcl, Book III., Chap. 7, Sec. IIS.

80 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

that which is charged with the command and disposition of the
public force.

This view of the subject is so natural and obvious, so anal-
ogous to general theory and practice, that no doubt can be enter-
tained of its justness, unless to be deduced from particular pro-
visions of the Constitution of the United States.

Let us see, then, if cause for such doubt is to be found there.

The second article of the Constitution of the United States,
section first, establishes this general proposition, that " the exe-
cutive power shall be vested in a President of the United
States of America."

The same article, in a succeeding section, proceeds to delineate
particular cases of executive power. It declares, among other
things, that the president shall be commander in chief of the
army and navy of the United States, and of the militia of the
several states, when called into the actual service of the United
States ; that he shall have power, by and with the advice and
consent of the senate, to make treaties ; that it shall be his duty
to receive ambassadors and other public ministers, and to take care
that the laws be faithfully executed.

It would not consist with the rules of sound construction, to
consider this enumeration of particular authorities as derogating
from the more comprehensive grant in the general clause, further
than as it may be coupled with express restrictions or limitations ;
as in regard to the co-operation of the senate in the appointment
of officers, and the making of treaties ; which are plainly quali-
fications of the general executive powers of appointing officers
and making treaties. The difficulty of a complete enumeration
of all the cases of executive authority, would naturally dictate
the use of general terms, and would render it improbable that a
specification of certain particulars was designed as a substitute
for those terms, when antecedently used. The different mode of
expression employed in the constitution, in regard to the two
powers, the legislative and the executive, serves to confirm this
inference. In the article which gives the legislative powers of
the government, the expressions are, " All legislative powers
herein granted shall be vested in a congress of the United

.Et. 36.] PACIFICUS. 81

States." In that which grants the executive power, the ex-
pressions are, " The executive power shall be vested in a President
of the United States."

The enumeration ought therefore to be considered, as intended
merely to specify the principal articles implied in the definition
of executive power ; leaving the rest to flow from the general
grant of that power, interpreted in conformity with other parts
of the Constitution, and Avith the principles of free government.

The general doctrine of our Constitution then is, that the
executive power of the nation is vested in the President; subject
only to the exceptions and qualifications, which are expressed in
the instrument.

Two of these have been already noticed ; the participation of
the senate in the appointment of officers, and in the making of
treaties. A third remains to be mentioned ; the right of the
legislature "to declare war, and grant letters of marque and
reprisal."

"V\7ith these exceptions, the executive power of the United States
is completely lodged in the President. This mode of construing
the Constitution has indeed been recognized by Congress in
formal acts, upon full consideration and debate ; of which the
power of removal from office is an important instance. It will
follow, that if a proclamation of neutrality is merely an executive
act, as it is believed, has been shown, the step which has been
taken by the President is liable to no j ust exception on the score
of authority.

It may be said, that this inference would be just, if the power
of declaring war had not been vested in the legislature; but thai
this power naturally includes the right of judging, whether the
nation is or is not under obligations to make war.

The answer is, that however true this position may be, it will
not follow, that the executive is in any case excluded from a
similar right of judgment, in the execution of its own functions.

If on the one hand, the legislature have a right to declare war,

it is on the other, the duty of the executive to preserve peace,

till the declaration is made ; and in fulfilling this duty, it must

necessarily possess a right of judging what is the nature of the

g 6

82 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

obligations which the treaties of the country impose on the
government; and when it has concluded that there is nothing in
them inconsistent with neutrality, it becomes both its province
and its duty to enforce the laws incident to that state of the
nation. The executive is charged with the execution of all laws,
the law of nations, as well as the municipal law, by which the
former are recognized and adopted. It is consequently bound,
by executing faithfully the laws of neutrality, when the country
is in a neutral position, to avoid giving cause of war to foreign
powers.

This is the direct end of the proclamation of neutrality. It
declares to the United States their situation with regard to the
contending parties, and makes known to the community, that the
laws incident to that state will be enforced. In doing this, it
conforms to an established usage of nations, the operation of
which, as before remarked, is to obviate a responsibility on the
part of the whole society, for secret and unknown violations of
the rights of any of the warring powers by its citizens.

Those who object to the proclamation will readily admit, that
it is the right and duty of the executive to interpret those articles
of our treaties which give to France particular privileges, in order
to the enforcement of them : but the necessary consequence of
this is, that the executive must judge what are their proper
limits; what rights are given to other nations, by our contracts
with them; what rights the law of nature and nations gives, and
our treaties permit, in respect to those countries with which we
have none ; in fine, what are the reciprocal rights and obligations
of the United States, and of all and each of the powers at war.

The right of the executive to receive ambassadors and other
public ministers, may serve to illustrate the relative duties of the
executive and legislative departments. This right includes that
of judging, in the case of a revolution of government in a foreign
country, whether the new rulers are competent organs of the
national will, and ought to be recognised, or not; which, where a
treaty antecedently exists between the United States and such
nation, involves the power of continuing or suspending its
operation. For until the new government is acknowledged, the

Mt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 83

treaties between the nations, so far at least as regards public
rights, are of course suspended.

This power of determining virtually upon the operation of
national treaties, as a consequence of the power to receive public
ministers, is an important instance of the right of the executive,
to decide upon the obligations of the country with regard to
foreign nations. To apply it to the case of France, if there had
been a treaty of alliance, offensive and defensive, between the
United States and that country, the unqualified acknowledgment
of the new government would have put the United States in a
condition to become an associate in the war with France, and
would have laid the legislature under an obligation, if required,
and there was otherwise no valid excuse, of exercising its power
of declaring war.

This serves as an example of the right of the executive, in
certain cases, to determine the condition of the nation, though it
may, in its consequences, affect the exercise of the power of the
legislature to declare war. Nevertheless, the executive cannot
thereby control the exercise of that power. The legislature is
still free to perform its duties, according to its own sense of them ;
though the executive, in the exercise of its constitutional powers,
may establish an antecedent state of things, which ought to weigh
in the legislative decisions.

The division of the executive power in the Constitution,
creates a concurrent authority in the cases to which it relates.

Hence, in the instance stated, treaties can only be made by
the president and senate jointly; but their activity may be con-
tinued or suspended by the President alone.

No objection has been made to the President's having acknow-
ledged the republic of France, by the reception of its minister,
without having consulted the senate ; though that body is con-
nected with him in the making of treaties, and though the con-
sequence of his act of reception is, to give operation to those
heretofore made with that country. But he is censured for
having declared the United States to be in a state of peace and
neutrality, with regard to the powers at war ; because the right
of changing that state, and declaring ivar, belongs to the legislature.

84 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

It deserves to be remarked, that as the participation of the
senate in the making of treaties, and the power of the legislature
to declare war, are exceptions out of the general " executive
power" vested in the President, they are to be construed strictly,
and ought to be extended no further than is essential to their
execution.

While, therefore, the legislature can alone declare war, can
alone actually transfer the nation from a state of peace to a state
of hostility, it belongs to the "executive power" to do whatever
else the law of nations, co-operating with the treaties of the
country, enjoin in the intercourse of the United States with
foreign powers.

In this distribution of authority, the wisdom of our Constitu-
tion is manifested. It is the province and duty of the executive
to preserve to the nation the blessings of peace. The legislature
alone can interrupt them by placing the nation in a state of war.
But though it has been thought advisable to vindicate the
authority of the executive on this broad and comprehensive
ground, it was not absolutely necessary to do so. That clause
of the Constitution which makes it his duty to " take care that
the laws be faithfully executed," might alone have been relied
upon, and this simple process of argument pursued.

The President is the Constitutional executor of the laws.
Oar treaties, and the laws of nations, form a part of the law of the
land. He, who is to execute the laws, must first judge for him-
self of their meaning. In order to the observance of that con-
duct which the laws of nations, combined with our treaties, pre-
scribed to this country, in reference to the present war in Europe,
it was necessary for the President to judge for himself, whether
there was anything in our treaties, incompatible with an adher-
ence to neutrality. Having decided that there was not, he had a
right, and if in his opinion the interest of the nation required it,
it was his duty as executor of the laws, to proclaim the neutrality
of the nation, to exhort all persons to observe it, and to warn
them of the penalties which would attend its non-observance.

The proclamation has been represented as enacting some new
law. This is a view of it entirely erroneous. It only proclaims

JEt.36.] pacificus. 85

a, fact, with regard to the existing state of the nation ; informs the
citizens of what the laws previously established require of them
in that state, and notifies them that these laws will be put in exe-
cution against the infractors of them.

NO. II.

July 3d, 1793.

The second and principal objection to the proclamation,
namely, that it is inconsistent with the treaties between the
United States and France, will now be examined.

It has been already shown, that it does not militate against
the performance of any of the stipulations in those treaties,
which would not make us an associate or party in the war, and
especially that it does not interfere with the privileges secured to
France by the seventeenth and twenty-second articles of the
treaty of commerce ; which, except the clause of guaranty, con-
stitute the most material discriminations to be found in our
treaties in favor of that country.

Official documents have likewise appeared in the public
papers, which serve as a comment upon the sense of the pro-
clamation in this particular, proving that it was not deemed by
the executive, incompatible with the performance of the stipula-
tions in those articles, and that in practice iliey are intended to
be observed.

It has, however, been admitted, that the declaration of neu-
trality excludes the idea of an execution of the clause of guaranty.

It becomes necessary therefore to examine, whether the
United States would have a valid justification for not complying
with it, in case of their being called upon for that purpose by
France.

Without knowing how far the reasons which have occurred
to me, may have influenced the President, there appear to me to
exist very good and substantial grounds for a refusal.

86 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

The alliance between the United States and France, is of the
defensive kind. In the caption, it is denominated a " treaty of
alliance eventual and defensive." In the body (article the second)
it is called a defensive alliance. The words of that article are as
follows : " The essential and direct end of the present defensive
alliance is to maintain effectually the liberty, sovereignty, and
independence, absolute and unlimited, of the United States, as
well in matters of government, as of commerce."

The leading character then of our alliance with France being
defensive, it will follow that the meaning, obligation, and force
of every stipulation in the treaty, must be tested by the principles
of such an alliance ; unless in any instance terms have been used
which clearly and unequivocally denoted a different intent.

The principal question consequently is : what is the nature
and effect of a defensive alliance ? When does the casus foederis
take place in relation to it ?

Eeason, the concurring opinions of writers, and the practice
of nations, will all answer : " When either of the allies is attached"
when " war is made upon him, not when he makes war upon
another : in other words, the stipulated assistance is to be given
" when our ally is engaged in a defensive, not when he is engaged
in an offensive war." This obligation to assist only in a defen-
sive war, constitutes the essential difference between an alliance
which is merely defensive, and one which is both offensive and
defensive. In the latter case, there is an obligation to co-operate
as well when the war, on the part of our ally, is of the latter, as
when it is of the former description. To affirm, therefore, that
the United States are bound to assist France in the war in which
she is at present engaged, will be to convert our treaty with her
into an alliance offensive and defensive, contrary to the express
and reiterated declarations of the instrument itself.

This assertion implies, that the war in question is an offensive
war on the part of France.

And so it undoubtedly is, with regard to all the powers with
whom she was at war, at the time of issuing the proclamation.

No position is better established, than that the nation which
first declares, or actually begins a war, whatever may have been

At. 36.] PACIFICUS. 87

the causes leading to it, is tliat which makes an offensive war.
Nor is there any doubt, that France first declared and began the
war, against Austria, Prussia, Savoy, Holland, England, and
Spain.

Upon this point, there is apt to be some incorrectness of
ideas. Those who have not examined subjects of such a nature,
are led to imagine that the party which commits the first injury,
or gives the first provocation, is on the offensive side, though
hostilities are actually begun by the other party.

But the cause or the occasion of the war, and the war itself,
are things entirely distinct. It is the commencement of the war
itself which decides the question, whether it be offensive or
defensive. All writers on the laws of nations agree in this
doctrine; but it is most accurately laid down in the following
extracts from Burlemaqui.*

" Neither are we to believe (says he) that he who first injures
another, begins by that an offensive war, and that the other who
demands the satisfaction for the injury received, is always on the
defensive. There are a great many unjust acts, which may

kindle a war, and which, however, are not the war itself; as the

ill treatment of a prince's ambassadors, the plundering of his

subjects, &c."

If, therefore, we take up arms to revenge such an unjust act,

we commence an offensive, but a just war ; and the prince who has

done the injury, and will not give satisfaction, makes a defensive,

but an unjust war.

We must therefore affirm, in general, that the first who takes

up arms, whether justly or unjustly, commences an offensive war;

and he who opposes him, whether with or without reason, begins

a defensive war.

France then being on the offensive in the present war, and

our alliance with her being defensive only, it follows, that the

casus foederis, or condition of our guaranty, cannot take place;

and that the United States are free to refuse a performance of

that guaranty if demanded.

* Vol. II., Book IV., Chap. III., Sec. 4, 5.

S8 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

Those wlio are disposed to justify indiscriminately every thing
in the conduct of France, may reply that though the war, in point
of form, may be offensive on her part, yet in point of principle, it
is defensive ; was in each instance a mere anticipation of attacks
meditated against her, and was justified by previous aggressions
of the opposite parties.

It is believed that it would be a sufficient answer to this
observation to say, that in determining the legal and positive
obligations of the United States, the only point of inquiry is,
whether the war was in fact begun by France, or by her enemies;
that all beyond this is too vague, too liable to dispute, too much
matter of opinion to be a proper criterion of national conduct ;
that when a war breaks out between two nations, all others, in
regard to the positive rights of the parties, and their positive
duties towards them, are bound to consider it as equally just on
both sides ; that consequently in a defensive alliance, when war
is made upon one of the allies, it is the duty of the other to
fulfil the conditions stipulated on its part, without inquiry,
whether the war is rightfully begun or not ; as on the other
hand, when war is commenced by one of the allies, the other is
exempted from the obligation to assist, however just the com-
mencement of it may have been.

This doctrine is founded upon the utility of clear and certain
rules for determining the reciprocal duties of nations, in order
that as little as possible may be left to opinion, and to the subter-
fuges of an over-refining or unfaithful casuistry.

Some writers indeed of high authority affirm, that it is a tacit
condition of every alliance, that one ally is not bound to assist
the other in a war manifestly unjust. But this is questioned by
other respectable authorities on the ground which has been stated.
And though the manifest injustice of the war has been affirmed
by some, to be a good cause for not executing the formal obliga-
tions of a treaty, I have nowhere seen it maintained, that the
abstract justice of a war will of itself oblige a nation to do what
its formal obligations do not enjoin : if this however were not
the true doctrine, an impartial examination would prove, that
with respect to some of the powers, France is not blameless in

jEt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 89

the circumstances which preceded and led to the war ; that if she
received, she also gave causes of offence, and that the justice of
the war, on her side, is in those cases not a little problematical.

There are prudential reasons, which dissuade from going
largely into this examination, unless it shall be rendered neces-
sary by the future turn of the discussion.

It will be sufficient here to notice cursorily the following
facts :

France committed an aggression upon Holland, in declaring
the navigation of the Scheldt free, and acting upon that declara-
tion ; contrary to treaties in which she had explicitly acknow-
ledged, and even guarantied, the exclusive right of Holland to
the use of that river ; and contrary also to the doctrines of the
best writers, and the established usages of nations in such cases.

She gave a general and very serious cause of alarm and um-
brage by the decree of the 19th of November, 1792, whereby the
convention, in the name of the French nation, declare, that they
will grant fraternity and assistance to every people who wish to
recover their liberty ; and charge the executive power to send
the necessary orders to the generals to give assistance to such
people, and to defend those citizens who have been, or who may
be vexed for the cause of liberty ; which decree was ordered to
be printed in all languages.

This very extraordinary decree amounted exactly to what
France herself had most complained of; an interference by one
nation in the internal government of another.

When a nation has actually come to a resolution to throw off
a yoke, under which it may have groaned, and to assert its
liberties, it is justifiable and meritorious in another, to afford
assistance to the one which has been oppressed, and is in the act
of liberating itself; but it is not warrantable for any nation
beforehand, to hold out a general invitation to insurrection and
revolution, by promising to assist every people who may wish to
recover their liberty, and to defend those citizens of every
country, who have been, or who may be vexed for the cause of
liberty ; still less to commit to the generals of its armies the dis-
cretionary power of judging, when the citizens of a foreign

00 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 36.

country have been vexed for the cause of liberty by their own
government.

For Vatel justly observes, as a consequence of the liberty and
independence of nations, " that it does not belong to any foreign
power, to take cognizance of the administration of a sovereign
of another country, to set himself up as a judge of his conduct,
or to oblige him to alter it."

It had a natural tendency to disturb the tranquillity of nations,
and to excite everywhere fermentation and revolt : it therefore
justified neutral powers, who were in a situation to be affected by
it, in taking measures to repress the spirit by which it had been
dictated.

But the principle of that decree received a more particular
application to Great Britain, by some subsequent circumstances.

Among the proofs of this are two answers, which were given
by the President of the National Convention, at a public sitting
on the 28th of November, to two different adresses ; one pre-
sented by a deputation from " the Society for Constitutional
information in London," the other by a deputation of English
and Irish citizens at Paris.

The following are extracts from these answers :

" The shades of Penn, of Hampden, and of Sidney, hover
over your heads ; and the moment, without doubt, approaches,
in which the French will bring congratulations to the national
Convention of Great Britain."

" Nature and principles draw towards us England, Scotland,
and Ireland. Let the cries of friendship resound through the
TWO republics" — "Principles are waging war against tyranny,
which will fall under the blows of philosophy. Eoyalty in
Europe is either destroyed or on the point of perishing, on the
ruins of feudality : and the declaration of rights placed by the
side of thrones, is a devouring fire which will consume them —
Worthy Eepublicans, &c."

Declarations of this sort cannot but be viewed as a direct
application of the principle of the decree to Great Britain ; and
as an open patronage of a revolution in that country ; a conduct
which, proceeding from the head of the body that governed

Mt. 36.] PACIFIC US. 91

France, in the presence and on behalf of that body, was un-
questionably an offence and. injury to the nation to which it
related.

The decree of the 15th of November, is a further cause of
offence to all the governments of Europe, By that decree, " the
French nation declares, that it will treat as enemies the people,
who, refusing or renouncing liberty and equality, are desirous of
preserving their prince and privileged castes, or of entering into
an accommodation with them, &c." This decree was little short
of a declaration of war against all nations having princes and
privileged, classes.

The formal and. definitive annexation to France of the territo-
ries over which her arms had temporarily prevailed, is another
violation of just and moderate principles, into which the conven-
tion was betrayed by an intemperate zeal, if not by a culpable
ambition ; and of a nature to justify the jealousy and ill-will of
every neighboring state.

The laws of nations give to a power at war nothing more than
a usufructuary or possessory right to the territories which it ac-
quires ; suspending the absolute property and dominion, till a
treaty of peace, or something equivalent, shall have ceded or
relinquished the conquered territory to the conqueror. This
rule is one of primary importance to the tranquillity and security
of nations — facilitating an adjustment of their quarrels, and the
preservation of ancient limits.

But France, by incorporating with herself in several instances
the territories she had acquired, violated that rule, and multiplied
infinitely the obstacles to peace and accommodation. The doc-
trine that a nation cannot consent to its own dismemberment,
but in a case of extreme necessity, immediately attached itself to
all the conquered territories ; while the progressive augmentation
of the dominions of the most powerful empire in Europe, on a
principle not of temporary possession, but of permanent acquisi-
tion, threatened the independence of all other countries, and gave
to neighboring neutral powers the justest cause of discontent
and apprehension. It is a principle well agreed, and founded on
substantial reasons, that whenever a particular state adopts

92 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

maxims of conduct contrary to those generally established among
nations, calculated to interrupt their tranquillity and to expose
their safety, they may justifiably make common cause to resist
and control the state which manifests a disposition so suspicious
and exceptionable.

Whatever partiality maybe entertained for the general object
of the French revolution, it is impossible for any well-informed
or sober-minded man, not to condemn the proceedings which
have been stated, as repugnant to the rights of nations, to the
true principles of liberty, to the freedom of opinion of mankind ;
or not to acknowledge as a consequence of this, that the justice of
the war on the part of France, with regard to some of the powers
with which she is engaged, is from those causes questionable
enough to free the United States from all embarrassment on that
score, if indeed it be at all incumbent upon them to go into the
inquiry.

The policy of a defensive alliance is so essentially distinct
from that of an offensive one, that it is every way important not
to confound their effects. The first kind has in view the prudent
object of mutual defence, when either of the allies is involuntarily
forced into a war by the attack of some third power. The latter
subjects the peace of each ally to the will of the other, and obliges
each to partake in the other's wars of policy and interest, as well
as in those of safety and defence. To preserve their boundaries
distinct, it is necessary that each kind should be governed by
plain and obvious rules.

This would not be the case, if instead of taking as a guide the
simple fact of who began the war, it was necessary to travel into
metaphysical niceties about the justice or injustice of the causes
which led to it :

Inasmuch also as the not furnishing a stipulated succor, when
it is due, is itself a cause of war, it is very requisite that there
should be some palpable criterion for ascertaining when it is due.
This criterion, as before observed, in a defensive alliance, is the
commencement or not, of the war by our ally, as a mere matter
of fact.

Other topics serving to illustrate the position that the United

JEt. 36.] PACIFIC US. 93

States are not bound to execute the clause of guaranty, are
reserved for another paper.

NO. III.

July 6th, 1793.

France, at the time of issuing the proclamation, was engaged
in war with a considerable part of Europe, and likely to be em-
broiled with almost all the rest, without a single ally in that
quarter of the globe.

In such a situation, it is evident, that however she may be
able to defend herself at home, of which her factions and internal
agitations furnish the only serious doubt, she cannot make ex-
ternal efforts in any degree proportioned to those which can be
made against her.

This state of things alone discharges the United States from
an obligation to embark in her quarrel.

It is known, that we are wholly destitute of naval force.
France, with all the great maritime powers united against her, is
unable to supply this deficiency. She cannot afford us that
species of co-operation which is necessary to render our efforts
useful to her, and to prevent our experiencing the destruction of
our trade, and the most calamitous inconveniences in other
respects.

Our guaranty does not look to France herself. It does not
relate to her immediate defence, but to the defence and preserva-
tion of her American colonies ; objects of which she might be
deprived, and yet remain a great, a powerful, and a happy nation.

In the actual situation of this country, and in relation to a
matter of only secondary importance to France, it may fairly be
maintained, that an ability in her to supply, in a competent de-
gree, our deficiency of naval force, is a condition of our obliga-
tion to perform the guaranty on our part.

Had the United States a powerful marine, or could the)- com-

94 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 36.

mand one in time, this reasoning would not be solid ; but circum-
stanced as they are, it is presumed to be well founded.

There would be no proportion between the mischiefs and
perils to which the United States would expose themselves, by
embarking in the war, and the benefit which the nature of their
stipulation aims at securing to France, or that which it would be
in their power actually to render her by becoming a party.

This disproportion would be a valid reason for not executing
the guaranty. All contracts are to receive a reasonable construc-
tion. Self-preservation is the first duty of a nation ; and though
in the performance of stipulations relating to war, good faith
requires that its ordinary hazards should be fairly met, because
they are directly contemplated by such stipulations, yet it does
not require that extraordinary and extreme hazards should be
run ; especially where the object to be gained or secured is only
a partial or particular interest of the ally, for whom they are to
be encountered.

As in the present instance, good faith does not require that
the United States should put in jeopardy their essential interests,
perhaps their very existence, in one of the most unequal contests
in which a nation could be engaged, to secure to France — what?
Her West India islands and other less important possessions in
America. For it is always to be remembered, that the stipulations
of the United States do, in no event, reach beyond this point. If
they were, upon the strength of their guaranty, to engage in the
war, and could make any arrangement with the belligerent
powers, for securing to France those islands and those possessions,
they would be at perfect liberty instantly to withdraw. They
would not be bound to prosecute the war one moment longer.

They are under no obligation in any event, as far as the faith
of treaties is concerned, to assist France in defence of her liberty;
a topic on which so much has been said, so very little to the pur-
pose, as it regards the present question.

The contest in which the United States would plunge them-
selves, were they to take part with France, would possibly be
still more unequal than that in which France herself is engaged.
With the possessions of Great Britain and Spain on both flanks,

Mt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 95

the numerous Indian tribes under the influence and direction of
those powers, along our whole interior frontier, with a long ex-
tended sea-coast, with no maritime force of our own, and with
the maritime force of all Europe against us, with no fortifications
whatever, and with a population not exceeding four millions ;
it is impossible to imagine a more unequal contest, than that in
which we should be involved in the case supposed. From such
a contest we are dissuaded by the most cogent motives of self-
preservation, no less than of interest.

We may learn from Vatel, one of the best writers on the laws
of nations, that "if a state which has promised succors, finds
itself unable to furnish them, its very inability is its exemption ;
and if the furnishing the succors would expose it to an evident
danger, this also is a lawful dispensation. The case would ren-
der the treaty pernicious to the state, and therefore not obligatory.
But this applies to an imminent danger threatening the safety of
the state : the case of such a danger is tacitly and necessarily
reserved in every treaty."*

If too, as no sensible and candid man will deny, the extent of
the present combination against France, is in a degree to be
ascribed to imprudences on her part, the exemption to the
United States is still more manifest and complete. No country
is bound to partake in hazards of the most critical kind, which
may have been produced or promoted by the indiscretion and
intemperance of another. This is an obvious dictate of reason,
with which the common sense and common practice of mankind
coincide.

To the foregoing considerations, it may perhaps be added with
no small degree of force, that military stipulations in national
treaties, contemplate only the ordinary case of foreign war, and
are irrelative to the contests which grow out of revolutions of
government ; unless where they have express reference to a
revolution begun, or where there is a guaranty of the existing
constitution of a nation, or where there is a personal alliance for
the defence of a prince and his family.f

* See Book III., Chap. VI., Sec. 92. f Puffendorf, Book VIII., Chap. IX., Sec. 9.

96 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

The revolution in France is the primitive source of the war in
which she is engaged. The restoration of the monarchy is the
avowed object of some of her enemies, and the implied one of
all. That question then is essentially involved in the principle
of the Avar ; a question certainly never in the contemplation of
the government with which our treaty was made, and it may
thence be fairly inferred, never intended to be embraced by it.

The inference is, that the United States fulfilled the utmost
that could be claimed by the nation of France, when they so far
respected its decision as to. recognize the newly constituted
authorities ; giving operation to the treaty of alliance for future
occasions, but considering the present war as a tacit exception.
Perhaps too, this exception is, in other respects, due to the cir-
cumstances under which the engagements between the two
countries were contracted. It is impossible, prejudice apart, not
to perceive a delicate embarrassment between the theory and fact
of our political relations to France.

On these grounds, also, as well as that of the present war
being offensive on the side of France, the United States have
valid and honorable pleas to offer against the execution of the
guaranty, if it should be claimed by France. And the President
was in every view fully justified in pronouncing, that the duty
and interest of the United States dictated a neutrality in the
war.

NO. IV.

July 10th, 1793.

A third objection to the proclamation is, that it is inconsistent
with the gratitude due to France, for the services rendered to us
in our revolution.

Those Avho make this objection disavow, at the same time, all
intention to maintain the position, that the United States ought
to take part in the war. They profess to be friends to our
remaining at peace. "What then do they mean by the objection ?

^t. 36.] PACIFIC US. 97

If it be no breach of gratitude to refrain from joining France
in the war, how can it be a breach of gratitude to declare, that
such is our disposition and intention ?

The two positions are at variance with each other ; and the
true inference is, either that those who make the objection really
wish to engage this country in the war, or that they seek a pre-
text for censuring the conduct of the Chief Magistrate, for some
purpose very different from the public good.

They endeavor in vain to elude this inference by saying,
that the proclamation places France upon an equal footing with
her enemies ; while our treaties require distinctions in her favor,
and our relative situation would dictate kind offices to her, which
ought not be granted to her adversaries.

They are not ignorant, that the proclamation is reconcilable
with both those objects, as far as they have any foundation in
truth or propriety.

It has been shown that the promise of " a friendly and impar-
tial conduct " towards all the belligerent powers, is not incom-
patible with the performance of any stipulations in our treaties,
which would not include our becoming an associate in the war ;
and it has been observed, that the conduct of the executive, in
regard to the seventeenth and twenty-second articles of the treaty
of commerce, is an unequivocal comment upon the terms. They
were, indeed, naturally to be understood, with the exception of
those matters of positive compact, which would not amount to
taking part in the war ; for a nation then observes a friendly and
impartial conduct towards two contending powers, when it only
performs to one of them what it is obliged to do by stipulations
in antecedent treaties, which do not constitute a participation in
the war.

Neither do those expressions imply, that the United States
will not exercise their discretion in doing kind offices to some of
the parties, without extending them to the others, so long as they
have no relation to war ; for kind offices of that description may,
consistently with neutrality, be shown to one party and refused
to another.

If the objectors mean, that the United States ought to favor
g 7

98 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

France, in things relating to war, and where they are not bound
to do it by treaty ; they must in this case also abandon their pre-
tension of being friends to peace. For such a conduct would
be a violation of neutrality, which could not fail to produce war.

It follows then, that the proclamation is reconcilable with all
that those who censure it contend for ; taking them upon their
own ground, that nothing is to be done incompatible with the
preservation of peace.

But though this would be a sufficient answer to the objection
under consideration ; yet it may not be without use, to indulge
some reflections on this very favorite topic of gratitude to France ;
since it is at this shrine that we are continually invited to sacri-
fice the true interests of the country ; as if "all for love, and the
world well lost," were a fundamental maxim in politics.

Faith and justice, between nations, are virtues of a nature the
most necessary and sacred. They cannot be too strongly incul-
cated, nor too highly respected. Their obligations are absolute,
their utility unquestionable ; they relate to objects which, with
probity and sincerity, generally admit of being brought within
clear and intelligible rules.

But the same cannot be said of gratitude. It is not very often,
that between nations, it can be pronounced with certainty, that
there exists a solid foundation for the sentiment ; and how far it
can justifiably be permitted to operate, is always a question of
still greater difficulty.

The basis of gratitude is a benefit received or intended, which
there was no right to claim, originating in a regard to the interest
or advantage of the party on whom the benefit is, or is meant to
be, conferred. If a service is rendered from views relative to
the immediate interest of the party who performs it, and is pro-
ductive of reciprocal advantages, there seems scarcely in such a
case, to be an adequate basis for a sentiment like that of gratitude.

The effect at least would be wholly disproportioned to the
cause, if such a service ought to beget more than a disposition to
render in turn a correspondent good office, founded on mutual
interest and reciprocal advantage. But gratitude would require
much more than this ; it would exact to a certain extent, even a

Mt. 36.] PACIFIC US. 99

sacrifice of the interest of the party obliged to the service or
benefit of the one by whom the obligation had been conferred.

Between individuals, occasion is not unfrequently given for
the exercise of gratitude. Instances of conferring benefits from
kind and benevolent dispositions or feelings towards the person
benefited, without any other interest on the part of the person
who renders the service, than the pleasure of doing a good action,
occur every day among individuals. But among nations they
perhaps never occur. It may be affirmed as a general principle,
that the predominant motive of good offices from one nation to
another, is the interest or advantage of the nation which performs
them.

Indeed, the rule of morality in this respect is not precisely the
same between nations, as between individuals. The duty of
making its own welfare the guide of its actions, is much stronger
upon the former than upon the latter ; in proportion to the greater
magnitude and importance of national, compared with individual
happiness, and to the greater permanency of the effects of national
than of individual conduct. Existing millions, and for the most
part future generations, are concerned in the present measures of
a government ; while the consequences of the private actions of
an individual ordinarily terminate with himself, or are circum-
scribed within a narrow compass :

Whence it follows that an individual may, on numerous occa-
sions, meritoriously indulge the emotions of generosity and be-
nevolence, not only without an eye to, but even at the expense
of, his own interest. But a government can rarely, if at all, be
justifiable in pursuing a similar course : and, if it does so, ought
to confine itself within much stricter bounds.* Good offices
which are indifferent to the interest of a nation performing them
or which are compensated by the existence or expectation of
some reasonable equivalent, or which produce an essential good
to the nation to which they are rendered, without real detriment

* This conclusion derives confirmation from the reflection, that under everv
form of government, rulers are only trustees for the happiness and interest of their
nation, and cannot, consistently with their trust, follow the suggestions of kindness
or humanity towards others, to the prejudice of their constituents.

100 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

to the affairs of the benefactors, prescribe perhaps the limits of
national generosity or benevolence.

It is not here meant to recommend a policy absolutely selfish
or interested in nations ; but to show, that a policy regulated by
their own interest, as far as justice and good faith permit, is, and
ought to be, their prevailing one ; and that either to ascribe to
them a different principle of action, or to deduce, from the sup-
position of it, arguments for a self-denying and self-sacrificing
gratitude on the part of a nation, which may have received from
another good offices, is to misrepresent or misconceive what
usually are, and ought to be, the springs of national conduct.

These general reflections will be auxiliary to a just estimate
of our real situation with regard to France ; of which a closer
view will be taken in a succeeding paper.

no. V.

July 13th, 1793.
France, the rival, time immemorial, of Great Britain, had, in
the course of the war which ended in 1763, suffered from the
successful arms of the latter the severest losses and the most
mortifying defeats. Britain from that moment had acquired an
ascendant in the affairs of Europe, and in the commerce of the
world, too decided and too humiliating to be endured without
extreme impatience, and an eager desire of finding a favorable
opportunity to destroy it, and to repair the breach which had
been made in the national glory. The animosity of wounded
pride, conspired with calculations of interest, to give a keen edge
to that impatience, and to that desire.

The American revolution offered the occasion. It early
attracted the notice of France, though with extreme circumspec-
tion. As far as countenance and aid may be presumed to have
been given prior to the epoch of the acknowledgment of our in-
dependence, it will be no unkind derogation to assert, that they

Mt. 36.J PACIFIC US. 101

were marked neither with liberality, nor with vigor ; that
they wore the appearance rather of a desire to keep alive dis-
turbances which might embarrass a rival, than of a serious design
to assist a revolution, or a serious expectation that it could be
effected.

The victories of Saratoga, the capture of an army, which went
a great way towards deciding the issue of the contest, decided
also the hesitations of France. They established in the govern-
ment of that country, a confidence of our ability to accomplish
our purpose, and, as a consequence of it, produced the treaties of
alliance and commerce.

It is impossible to see in all this any thing more, than the con-
duct of a jealous competitor, embracing a most promising oppor-
tunity to repress the pride, and diminish the power of a dangerous
rival, by seconding a successful resistance to its authority, with
the object of lopping off a valuable portion of its dominions. The
dismemberment of this country from Great Britain was an ob-
vious, and a very important interest of France. It cannot be
doubted, that it was both the determining motive and an adequate
compensation, for the assistance afforded to us.

Men of sense, in this country, derived encouragement to the
part which their zeal for liberty prompted them to take in our
revolution, from the probability of the co-operation of France and
Spain. It will be remembered, that this argument was used in
the publications of the day ; but upon what was it bottomed ?
Upon the known competition between those nations and Great
Britain, upon their evident interest to reduce her power and cir-
cumscribe her empire ; not certainly upon motives of regard to
our interest, or of attachment to our cause. Whoever should
have alleged the latter, as the grounds of the expectation held
out. would have been then j ustly considered as a visionary or a
deceiver. And whoever shall now ascribe to such motives the
aid which we did receive, would not deserve to be viewed in a
better light.

The inference from these facts is not obscure. Aid and co-
operation, founded upon a great interest, pursued and obtained
by the party rendering them, is not a proper stock upon which to

102 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

engraft that enthusiastic gratitude, which is claimed from us by
those who love France more than the United States.

This view of the subject, extorted by the extravagancy of such
a claim, is not meant to disparage the just pretensions of France
to our good-will. Though neither in the motives to the succors
which she furnished, nor in their extent, (considering how pow-
fully the point of honor, in such war, reinforced the considera-
tions of interest when she was once engaged,) can be found a suf-
ficient basis for that gratitude which is the theme of so much
declamation ; yet we shall find, in the manner of affording them,
just cause for our esteem and friendship.

France did not attempt, in the first instance, to take advantage
of our situation to extort from us any humiliating or injurious
concessions, as the price of her assistance ; nor afterwards, in the
progress of the war, to impose hard terms as the condition of par-
ticular aids.

Though this course was certainly dictated by policy ; yet it
was a magnanimous policy, such as always constitutes a title to
the approbation and esteem of mankind ; and a claim to the
friendship and acknowledgment of the party in whose favor it
is practised.

But these sentiments are satisfied on the part of the nation,
when they produce sincere wishes for the happiness of the party
from whom it has experienced such conduct, and a cordial dis-
position to render all good and friendly offices, which can be
rendered without prejudice to its own solid and permanent
interests.

To ask of a nation so situated, to make a sacrifice of substan-
tial interest ; to expose itself to the jealousy, ill-will, or resent-
ment of the rest of the world ; to hazard, in an eminent degree,
its own safety, for the benefit of the party who may have ob-
served towards it the conduct which has been described ; would
be to ask more than the nature of the case demands, more than
the fundamental maxims of society authorize, more than the
dictates of sound reason justify.

A question has arisen, with regard to the proper object of that
gratitude, which is so much insisted upon : whether it be the

Mt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 103

unfortunate prince by whom the assistance received was given ;
or the nation of whom he was the chief or the organ ? It is ex-
tremely interesting to the national justice, to form right concep-
tions on this point.

The arguments which support the latter idea, are as follows :

"Louis the XVI. was but the constitutional agent of the
French people. He acted for and on behalf of the nation ; it was
with their money and their blood he supported our cause. It is
to them, therefore, not to him, that our obligations are due. Louis
the XVI., in taking our part, was no doubt actuated by state
policy. An absolute prince could not love liberty. But the
people of France patronized our cause with zeal, from sympathy
in its object. The people, therefore, not its monarch, are entitled
to our sympathy."

This reasoning may be ingenious ; but it is not founded in
nature or fact.

Louis the XVI., though no more than the constitutional agent
of the nation, had at the time the sole power of managing its
affairs, the legal right of directing its will and its force. It
belonged to him to assist us, or not, without consulting the
nation ; and he did assist without such consultation. His will
alone was active ; that of the nation passive. If there was kind-
ness in the decision, demanding a return of good- will, it was the
kindness of Louis XVI. — his heart was the depository of the sen-
timent. Let the genuine voice of nature, then, unperverted by
political subtleties, pronounce whether the acknowledgment,
which may be due for that kindness, can be equitably transferred
from him to others, who had no share in the decision ; whether
the principle of gratitude ought to determine us to behold with
indifference his misfortunes, and with satisfaction the triumphs
of his foes.

The doctrine, that the prince is the organ of his nation, is
conclusive to enforce the obligations of good faith between two
states ; in other words, the observance of duties stipulated in
treaties for national purposes ; and it will even suffice to continue
to a nation a claim to the friendship and good-will of another,
resulting from friendly offices done by its prince ; but it would

104 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

be to carry the principle much too far, and to render it infinitely
too artificial to attribute to it the effect of transferring such a
claim from the prince to the nation, by way of opposition and
contrast. Friendship, good- will, gratitude for favors received,
have so inseparable a reference to the motives with which, and
to the persons by whom they were rendered, as to be incapable
of being transferred to another at his expense.

But Louis XVI., it is said, acted from reasons of state, without
regard to our cause ; while the people of France patronized it
with zeal and attachment.

As far as the assertion with regard to the monarch may be
well founded, and is an objection to our gratitude to him, it
destroys the whole fabric of gratitude to France. For our grati-
tude is, and must be, relative to the services performed. The
nation can only claim it on the score of their having been ren-
dered by their agent with their means. If the views with which
he performs them divested them of the merit which ought to
inspire gratitude, none is due. The nation no more than their
agent can claim it.

With regard to the individual good wishes of the citizens of
France, as they did not produce the services rendered to us as a
nation, they can be no foundation for national gratitude. They
can only call for a reciprocation of individual good wishes. They
cannot form the basis of public obligation.

But the assertion takes more for granted than there is reason
to believe true.

Louis the XVI., no doubt took part in our contest from reasons
of state ; but Louis the XVI. was a man, humane, and kind-
hearted. The acts of his early youth had entitled him to this
character. It is natural for a man of this disposition to become
interested in the cause of those whom he protects or aids ; and
if the concurrent testimony of the period may be credited, there
was no man in France more personally friendly to the cause of
this country than Louis the XVI. I am much misinformed, if
repeated declarations of the venerable Franklin did not attest
this fact.

It is a just tribute to the peojDle of France to admit, that the}''

Mt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 105

manifested a lively interest in the cause of America ; but while
motives are scanned, who can say how much of it is to be ascribed
to the antipathy which they bore to their rival neighbor ; how
much to their sympathy in the object of our pursuit ? It is cer-
tain that the love of liberty was not a national sentiment in
France, when a zeal for our cause first appeared among that
people.

There is reason to believe too, that the attachment to our
cause, which ultimately became very extensive, if not general,
did not originate with the mass of the French people. It began
with the circles more immediately connected with the court, and
was thence diffused through the nation.

This observation, besides its tendency to rectify ideas, which
are calculated to give a false current to the public feeling, may
serve to check the spirit of illiberal invective, which has been
wantonly indulged against those distinguished friends of Ame-
rica, who, though the authors of the French revolution, have
fallen victims to it ; because their principles would not permit
them to go the whole length of an entire subversion of the
monarchy.

The preachers of gratitude are not ashamed to brand Louis
the XVI. as a tyrant, La Fayette as a traitor. But Iioav can we
wonder at this, when they insinuate a distrust even of a ! ! !

In urging the friendly disposition to our cause, manifested by
the people of France, as a motive to our gratitude towards that
people, it ought not to be forgotten, that those dispositions were
not confined to the inhabitants of that country. They were em-
inently shared by the people of the United Provinces, produced
to us valuable pecuniary aids from their citizens, and eventually
involved them in the war on the same side with us. It may be
added too, that here the patronage of our cause emphatically
began with the mass of the community, not originating as in
France with the government, but finally implicating the govern-
ment in the consequences.

Our cause had also numerous friends in other countries ;
even in that with which we were at war. Conducted with pru-
dence, moderation, justice, and humanity, it may be said to have

106 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

been a popular cause among mankind, conciliating the counte-
nance of princes, and the affection of nations.

The dispositions of the individual citizens of France can
therefore in no sense be urged, as constituting a peculiar claim
to our gratitude. As far as there is foundation for it, it must be
referred to the services rendered to us ; and, in the first instance,
to the unfortunate monarch that rendered them. This is the
conclusion of nature and reason.

NO VI.

July 17th, 1793.

The very men who not long since, with a holy zeal, would
have been glad to make an auto dafe of any one who should have
presumed to assign bounds to our obligations to Louis the XVI.,
are now ready to consign to the flames those who venture even
to think that he died a proper object of our sympathy or regret.
The greatest pains are taken to excite against him our detestation.
His supposed perjuries and crimes are sounded in the public ear,
with all the exaggerations of intemperate declaiming. Ail the
unproved and contradicted allegations, which have been brought
against him are taken for granted, as the oracles of truth, on no
better grounds than the mere general presumptions, that he
could not have been a friend to a revolution which stripped him
of so much power ; that it is not likely the convention would
have pronounced him guilty, and consigned him to so igno-
minious a fate, if he had been really innocent.

It is possible that time may disclose facts and proofs, which
will substantiate the guilt imputed to Louis : but these facts and
proofs have not yet been authenticated to the world ; and justice
admonishes us to wait for their production and 'authentication.

Those who have most closely attended to the course of the
transaction, find least cause to be convinced of the criminality of
the deceased monarch. While his counsel, whose characters

At. 36.] PACIFICUS. 107

give weight to their assertions, with an air of conscious truth,
boldly appeal to facts and proofs, in the knowledge and posses-
sion of the convention, for the refutation of the changes brought
against him, the members of that body, in all the debates upon
the subject which have reached this country, either directly from
France, or circuitously through England, appear to have con-
tented themselves with assuming the existence of the facts
charged, and inferring from them a criminality which, after the
abolition of the royalty, they were interested to establish.

The presumption of guilt drawn from the suggestions which
have been stated, is more than counterbalanced by an opposite
one, which is too obvious not to have occurred to many, though
'I do not recollect yet to have met with it in print. It is this :

If the convention had possessed clear evidence of the guilt of
Louis, they would have promulgated it to the world in an
authentic and unquestionable shape. Respect for the opinion of
mankind, regard for their own character, the interest of their
cause, made this an indis23ensable duty ; nor can the omission be
satisfactorily ascribed to any other reason than the want of such
evidence.

The inference is, that the melancholy catastrophe of Louis
XVL, was the result of a supposed political expediency, rather
than of real criminality.

In a case so circumstanced, does it, can it consist with our
justice or our humanity, to partake in the angry and vindictive
passions which it is endeavored to excite against the unfortunate
monarch ? Was it a crime in him to have been born a prince ?
Could this circumstance forfeit his title to the commiseration
due to his misfortunes as a man ?

Would gratitude dictate to a people, situated as are the peo-
ple of this country, to lend their aid to extend to the son the
misfortunes of the father ? Should we not be more certain of
violating no obligation of that kind, and of not implicating the
delicacy of our national character, by taking no part in the con-
test, than by throwing our weight into either scale ?

Would not a just estimate of the origin and progress of our
relations to France, viewed with reference to the mere question

108 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

of gratitude, lead us to this result — that we ought not to take
part against the son and successor of a father, on whose sole will
depended &e assistance which we received ; that we ought not
to take part with him against the nation, whose blood and whose
treasure had been, in the hands of the father, the means of that
assistance ?

But we are sometimes told, by way of answer, that the cause
of France is the cause of liberty ; and that we are bound to
assist the nation on the score of their being engaged in the
defence of that cause. How far this idea ought to carry us, will
be the subject of future examination.

It is only necessary here to observe, that it presents a ques-
tion essentially different from that which has been in discussion.
If we are bound to assist the French nation, on the principle of
their being embarked in the defence of liberty, this is a con-
sideration altogether foreign to that of gratitude. Gratitude has
reference only to kind offices- received. The obligation to assist
the cause of liberty, must be deduced from the merits of that
cause and from the interest we have in its support. It is possible
that the benefactor may be on one side ; the defenders and sup-
porters of liberty on the other. Gratitude may point one way,
the love of liberty another. It is therefore important to just
conclusions, not to confound the two things.

A sentiment of justice, more than the importance of the ques-
tion itself, has led to so particular a discussion respecting the
proper object of whatever acknowledgment may be due from the
United States, for the aid which they received from France
during their own revolution.

The extent of the obligation which it may impose is by far
the most interesting inquiry. And though it is presumed, that
enough has been already said to evince, that it does in no degree
require us to embark in the war ; yet there is another, and a
very simple view of the subject, which is too convincing to be
omitted.

The assistance derived from France was afforded by a great
and powerful nation, possessing numerous armies, a respectable
fleet, and the means of rendering it a match for the force to be

jEt. 36.] PACIFICUS. 109

encountered. The position of Europe was favorable to the en-
terprise ; a general disposition prevailing to see the power of
Britain abridged. The co-operation of Spain was very much a
matter of course, and the probability of other powers becoming
engaged on the same side not remote. Great Britain was alone,
and likely to continue so ; France had a great and persuasive
interest in the separation of this country from her. In this situa-
tion, with much to hope and little to fear, she took part in our
quarrel.

France is at this time singly engaged with the greatest part
of Europe, including all the first-rate powers except one ; and in
danger of being engaged with the rest. To use the emphatic
language of a member of the national convention, she has but
one enemy, and that is all Europe. Her internal affairs are,
without doubt, in serious disorder ; her navy comparatively in-
considerable. The United States are a young nation: their
population, though rapidly increasing, still small ; their resources,
though growing, not great; without armies, without fleets;
capable, from the nature of the country and the spirit of its in-
habitants, of immense exertions for self-defence, but little capable
of those external efforts which could materially serve the cause
of France. So far from having any direct interest in going to
war, they have the strongest motives of interest to avoid it. By
embarking with France in the war, they would have incom-
parably more to apprehend than to hope.

This contrast of situations and inducements is alone a con-
clusive demonstration, that the United States are not under an
obligation, from gratitude, to join France in the war. The utter
disparity between the circumstances of the service to be rendered,
and of the service received, proves, that the one cannot be an
adequate basis of obligation for the other. There would be a
manifest want of equality, and consequently of reciprocity.

But complete justice would not be done to this question of
gratitude, were no notice to be taken of the address which has
appeared in the public papers, (the authenticity of which has not
been impeached,) from the convention of France to the United
States, announcing the appointment of the present minister pleni-

110 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

potentiary. In that address the convention informs us, that " the
support which the ancient French court had afforded the United
States to recover their independence, was only the fruit of a
base speculation ; and that their glory offended its ambitious
views, and the ambassadors of France bore the criminal orders
of stopping the career of their prosperity."

If this information is to be admitted in the full force of the
terms, it is very fatal to the claim of gratitude towards France.
An observation similar to one made in a former paper occurs
here. If the organ of the nation, on whose will the aid which
was given depended, acted not only from motives irrelative to
our advantage, but from unworthy motives, or, as is alleged, from
a base speculation ; if afterwards he displayed a temper hostile to
the confirmation of our security and prosperity, he acquired no
title to our gratitude in the first instance, or he forfeited it in the
second. And the people of France, who can only demand it in
virtue of the conduct of their agent, must, together with him,
renounce the pretension. It is an obvious principle, that if a
nation can claim merit from the good deeds of its sovereign, it
must answer for the demerit of his misdeeds.

But some deductions are to be made from the suggestions in
the address of the convention, on account of the motives which
evidently dictated the communication. Their zeal to alienate
the good- will of this country from the late monarch, and to in-
crease the odium of the French nation against the monarchy,
which was so ardent as to make them overlook the tendency of
their communication to deprive their votaries among us of the
plea of gratitude, may justly be suspected of exaggeration.

The truth probably is, that the base speculation charged,
amounts to nothing more than that the government of France, in
affording us assistance, was actuated by the motives which have
been attributed to it, namely, the desire of promoting the interest
of France, by lessening the power of Great Britain, and opening
a new channel of commerce to herself ; that the orders said to
have been given to the ambassadors of France, to stop the career
of our prosperity, are resolvable into a speculative jealousy of
the ministers of the day, lest the United States, by becoming as

JEt. 36.] PACIFICUS. Ill

powerful and great as they are capable of being under an efficient
government, might prove formidable to the European possessions
in America. With these qualifications, the address offers no new
discovery to the intelligent and unbiased friends of their country.
They knew long ago, that the interest of France had been the
governing motive of the aid afforded ; and they saw clearly
enough in the conversation and conduct of her agents, while the
present Constitution of the United States was under considera-
tion, that the government, of which they were the instruments,
would have preferred our remaining under the old form. They
perceived also, that these views had their effect upon some of the
devoted partisans of France among ourselves ; as they now per-
ceive, that the same characters are embodying, with all the aid
they can obtain, under the same banner, to resist the operation
of that government of which they withstood the establishment.

All this was, and is seen ; and the body of the people of
America are too discerning to be long in the dark about it : too
wise to have been misled by foreign or domestic machinations,
they adopted a Constitution which was necessary to their safety
and to their happiness : too wise still to be ensnared by the same
machinations, they will support the government they have esta-
blished, and will take care of their own peace, in spite of the
insidious efforts which are employed to detach them from the one,
and to disturb the other.

The information which the address of the convention con-
tains, ought to serve as an instructive lesson to the people of this
country. It ought to teach us not to overrate foreign friend-
ships ; and to be upon our guard against foreign attachments.
The former will generally be found hollow and delusive ; the
latter will have a natural tendency to lead us aside from our own
true interest, and to make us the dupes of foreign influence.
Both serve to introduce a principle of action, which, in its effects,
if the expression may be allowed, is anti-national. Foreign in-
fluence is truly the Grecian horse to a republic. We cannot be
too careful to exclude its entrance. Nor ought we to imagine,
that it can only make its approaches in the gross form of direct
bribery. It is then most dangerous when it comes under the

112 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 36.

patronage of our passions, under the auspices of national pre-
judice and partiality.

I trust the morals of this country are yet too good to leave
much to be apprehended on the score of bribery. Caresses, con-
descensions, flattery, in unison with our prepossessions, are infi-
nitely more to be feared : and as far as there is opportunity for
corruption, it is to be remembered, that one foreign power can
employ this resource as well as another ; and that the effect must
be much greater, when it is combined with other means of in-
fluence, than where it stands alone.

NO. VII.

July 20th, 1793.
The remaining objection to the proclamation of neutrality,
still to be discussed, is, that it was out of time and unnecessary.

To give color to this objection it is asked, why did not the
proclamation appear, when the war commenced with Austria and
Prussia ? Why was it forborne, till Great Britain, Holland, and
Spain, became engaged ? Why did not the government wait,
till the arrival at Philadelphia of the minister of the French
republic ? Why did it volunteer a declaration not required of it
by any of the belligerent parties ?

To most of these questions, solid answers have already
appeared in the public prints. Little more can be done, than to
repeat and enforce them.

Austria and Prussia are not maritime powers. Contraven-
tions of neutrality as against them, were not likely to take
place to any extent, or in a shape that would attract their notice.
It would therefore have been useless, if not ridiculous, to have
made a formal declaration on the subject, while they were the
only parties opposed to France.

But the reverse of this is the case with regard to Spain, Hol-
land and England. These are all commercial and maritime

^Et.36.] PACIFICUS. 113

nations. It was to be expected, that their attentions would be
immediately drawn towards the United States with sensibility,
and even with jealousy. It was to be feared that some of our
citizens might be tempted by the prospect of gain to go into
measures which would injure them, and hazard the peace of the
country. Attacks by some of these powers upon the possessions
of France in America, were to be looked for as a matter of course.
While the views of the United States, as to that particular, were
problematical, they would naturally consider us as a power that
might become their enemy. This they would have been the
more apt to do on account of those public demonstrations of
attachment to the cause of France, of which there has been so
prodigal a display. Jealousy, every body knows, especially if
sharpened by resentment, is apt to lead to ill treatment ; ill treat-
ment to hostility.

In proportion to the probability of our being regarded with
a suspicious, and consequently an unfriendly eye, by the powers
at war with France ; in proportion to the danger of imprudences
being committed by any of our citizens, which might occasion a
rupture with them, the policy on the part of the government, of
removing all doubt as to its own disposition, and of deciding the
condition of the United States, in the view of the parties con-
cerned, became obvious and urgent.

Were the United States now, what, if we do not rashly throw
away the advantages we possess, they may expect to be in fifteen
or twenty years, there would have been more room for an
insinuation which has been thrown out, namely, that they ought
to have secured to themselves some advantage, as the considera-
tion of their neutrality : an idea, however, the justice and mag-
nanimity of which cannot be commended. But in their present
situation, with their present strength and resources, an attempt
of that kind could have only' served to display pretensions at
once excessive and unprincipled. The chance of obtaining any
collateral advantage, if such a chance there was, by leaving doubt
of their intentions, as to peace or war, could not wisely L«ve
been put, for a single instant, in competition with the tendency
of a contrary conduct to secure our peace.
g 8

114 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

The conduciveness of the declaration of neutrality to that end,
was not the only recommendation to the adoption of the measure.
It was of great importance that our own citizens should under-
stand, as soon as possible, the opinion which the government
entertained of the nature of our relations to the warring parties,
and of the propriety or expediency of our taking a side, or re-
maining neuter. The arrangements of our merchants could not
but be very differently affected by the one hypothesis or the
other • and it would necessarily have been very detrimental and
perplexino- to them to have been left in uncertainty. It is not
requisite to say, how much our agriculture and other interests
would have been likely to have suffered by embarrassments to

our merchants.

The idea of its having been incumbent on the government to
delay the measure for the arrival of the minister of the French
republic is as absurd as it is humiliating. Did the executive
stand in need of the logic of a foreign agent to enlighten it as to
the duties or interests of the nation? Or was it bound to ask
his consent to a step which appeared to itself consistent with the
former, and conducive to the latter? _

The sense of our treaties was to be learnt from the instru-
ments themselves. It was not difficult to pronounce beforehand,
that we had a greater interest in the preservation of peace, than
in any advantages with which France might tempt our participa-
tion in the war. Commercial privileges were all that she could
offer of real value in our estimation, and a carte blanche on this
head would have been an inadequate recompense for renouncing
peace and committing ourselves voluntarily to the chances of so
precarious and perilous a war. Besides, if the privileges which
miaht have been conceded were not founded in a real, permanent
mutual interest, of what value would be the treaty that should
concede them? Ought not the calculation, in such case, to be
upon a speedy resumption of them, with perhaps a quarrel as
the pretext? On the other hand, may we not trust that com-
mercial privileges, which are truly founded in mutual interest,
will grow out of that interest ; without the necessity of giving a
premium for them at the expense of our peace ?

iEi\ 36.] PACIFICUS. 115

To what purpose then was the executive to have waited for
the arrival of the minister ? Was it to give opportunity to con-
tentious discussions ; to intriguing machinations ; to the clamors
of a faction won to a foreign interest ?

Whether the declaration of neutrality, issued upon or without
the requisition of any of the belligerent powers, can only be
known to their respective ministers, and to the proper officers of
our government. But if it be true, that it issued without any
such requisition, it is an additional indication of the wisdom of
the measure.

It is of much importance to the end of preserving peace, that
the belligerent nations should be thoroughly convinced of the
sincerity of our intentions to observe the neutrality we profess ;
and it cannot fail to have weight in producing this conviction,
that the declaration of it was a spontaneous act ; not stimulated
by any requisition on the part of either of them ; but proceeding
purely from our own view of our duty and interest.

It was not surely necessary for the government to wait for
such a requisition ; while there were advantages, and no disad-
vantages, in anticipation. The benefit of an early notification to
our merchants, conspired with the consideration just mentioned
to recommend the course which was pursued.

If in addition to the rest, the early manifestation of the views
of the government has had any effect in fixing the public opinion
on the subject, and in counteracting the success of the efforts
which, it was to be foreseen, would be made to distract and dis-
unite, this alone would be a great recommendation of the policy
of having suffered no delay to intervene.

What has been already said, in this and in preceding papers,
affords a full answer to the suggestion, that the proclamation was
unnecessary. It would be a waste of time to add more.

But there has been a criticism several times repeated, which
may deserve a moment's attention. It has been urged, that the
proclamation ought to have contained some reference to our
treaties ; and that the generality of the promise to observe a con-
duct friendly and impartial towards the belligerent powers, ought
to have been qualified with expressions equivalent to these, " as
far as may consist with the treaties of the United States."

116 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEtx. 36.

The insertion of such a clause would have entirely defeated
the object of a proclamation, by rendering the intention of the
government equivocal. That object was to assure the powers at
war, and our own citizens, that in the opinion of the executive,
it was consistent with the duty and interest of the nation to
observe neutrality, and that it was intended to pursue a conduct
corresponding with that opinion. Words equivalent to those
contended for would have rendered the other part of the declara-
tion nugatory, by leaving it uncertain, whether the executive did or
did not believe a state of neutrality to be consistent with our treaties.
Neither foreign powers, nor our own citizens, would have been
able to have drawn any conclusion from the proclamation ; and
both would have had a right to consider it as a mere equivoca-
tion.

By not inserting any such ambiguous expressions, the pro-
clamation was susceptible of an intelligible and proper construc-
tion. While it denoted on the one hand, that in the judgment
of the executive, there was nothing in our treaties obliging us to
become a party in the tear ; it left it to be expected on the other,
that all stipulations compatible with neutrality, according to the
laws and usages of nations, would be enforced. It follows, that
the proclamation was, in this particular, exactly what it ought to
have been.

The words, "make known the disposition of the United
States," have also given a pretext for cavil. It has been asked,
how could the President undertake to declare the disposition of
the United States ? The people, for aught he knew, may have
a very different sentiment. Thus, a conformity with republican
propriety and modesty is turned into a topic of accusation.

Had the President announced his own disposition, he would
have been chargeable with egotism, if not presumption. The
constitutional organ of intercourse between the United States
and foreign nations, whenever he speaks to them, it is in that
capacity ; it is in the name and on the behalf of the United
States. It must therefore be with greater propriety, that he
speaks of their disposition, than of his own.

It is easy to imagine, that occasions frequently occur in the

JEt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 117

communications to foreign governments and foreign agents,
which render it necessary to speak of the friendship or friendly
disposition of the United States, of their disposition to cultivate
harmony and good understanding, to reciprocate neighborly
offices, and the like. It is usual, for example, when public
ministers are received, for some complimentary expressions to
be interchanged. It is presumable, that the late reception of the
French minister did not pass, without some assurance on the
part of the President, of the friendly disposition of the United
States towards France. Admitting it to have happened, would
it be deemed an improper arrogation ? If not why was it more
so, to declare the disposition of the United States to observe a
neutrality in the existing war ?

In all such cases, nothing more is to be understood, than an
official expression of the political disposition of the nation, inferred
from its political relations, obligations, and interests. It is never
to be supposed, that the expression is meant to convey the pre-
cise state of the individual sentiments or opinions of the great
mass of the people.

Kings and princes speak of their own dispositions; the
magistrates of republics, of the dispositions of their nations. The
President, therefore, has evidently used the style adapted to his
situation, and the criticism upon it is plainly a cavil.

NO JACOBIN.

I.

August, 1793.

It is publicly rumored in this city, that the minister of the
French republic has threatened to appeal from the President of the
United States to the people.

Various publications which have recently appeared in the

118 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

papers, particularly that under the signature of " Jiiba" in the
National Gazette of the 10th instant, and that under the signa-
ture of "a Jacobin" in the General Advertiser of Friday last,
seem to have begun the appeal.

Several traits in the latter carry conjectures of the writer to
the source of the threatened appeal. The idiom of it is evidently
foreign, and it abounds in terms and phrases which are said by
those who have access to him, to be frequently in the mouth of
the supposed author. That the idiom is foreign will appear to
a competent judge of the English language, from the structure of
every sentence ; but there are particular expressions which will
prove it even to those who have no very accurate knowledge of
it. Witness these extracts : "I cannot be convinced that a plan
of this kind should be approved by Congress or the people of the
United States," — " through a desire of giving a proof of the loyalty
and confidence which ought to exist between the agents of free
nations." The word " loyalty " in the English language is only
used to denote fidelity to a prince, to a lover, or to a mistress.
In the French it is a familiar expression of good faith, candor,
sincere dealing, &c.

That it probably proceeds from the source of the threatened
appeal is to be inferred from the positive assertion of things,
which if true, can only be known to the principal officers of the
general government, and to the public agents of France. It is
said, that orders were given to the military to take possession of
a French vessel without previous complaint, explanation, or com-
munication with the agents of the French republic. Again it is said,
the minister of France caused to be returned, the Grange, upon a
simple request of the American government. Declarations like
these, could only with propriety be made with so much peremp-
toriness by parties to the transaction.

Indeed, they seem intended to dismiss even the appearance of
concealment. Let us now see in what manner the heavy charges
of breach of treaty, which are brought against the executive of
the general government, are supported.

The first is the detention of French vessels armed in the ports of
the United States ; which is said to be contrary to the 22d article

^t. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 119

of the treaty of commerce between the United States and
France.

The words of the French original upon which this construc-
tion is put, are as follows. " II ne sera permis a aucun corsaire
etranger non appartenant a quelque sujet de sa majeste tres
chretienne ou a aucun citoyen des dits Etats Units, lequel aura
un commission de la part d'un prince ou d'une puissance en guerre
avec Tune des deux nations, d'armer leurs vaissaux dans les
ports de l'une des deux parties ni d'y vendre les prizes qu'il aura
faites, &c."

The true translation of these words is, it shall not be per-
mitted to any foreign privateer, not belonging to subjects of His Host
Christian Majesty, nor to citizens of the United States, which shall
have commissions from a prince or power at war with one of the
two nations, to arm their vessels in the ports of the one or the
other of the two parties, nor there to sell the prizes which they
shall have made, &c.

The plain and evident meaning of this translation is, that
neither of the contracting parties shall be at liberty to permit the
privateers of a power at war with the other, to fit or arm in its
ports, or sell their prizes there, &c.

But this stipulation not to permit the privateers of powers at
war with either of the parties, to fit or arm in the ports of the
other, can by no rule of construction be turned into an agreement
to permit the privateers of one party when engaged in war with a
third power, with whom the other party is at peace, to fit or arm
in the ports of the party at peace. This would be to convert
a prohibition against doing one thing into a contract to do another.

Nor is there a syllable in the Avhole sentence that even im-
plies such a contract. The attempt seems to be to deduce it from
the words " not belonging to subjects of His Most Christian Majesty,
nor citizens of the United States, " as if these words were introduced
by way of exception to the generality of the terms " foreign pri-
vateers," to imply that the privateers of the subjects or citizens
of the parties might be permitted to fit or arm in the ports of
each other.

But these words " not belonging, &c," must be taken merely as

120 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 36.

words of additional description, more clearly to express what is in-
tended by the terras u foreign privateers." Nor are they useless to
this end. The sense of the terms " foreign privateers," is not
sufficiently precise or clear without them, for the privateers of
either party would be foreign with respect to the other, but the
intention being to designate privateers foreign to both parties.
To render this intention unequivocal, the words " not belonging to
the subjects of His Most Christian Majesty, nor to the citizens of
the United States," are added, which fixes the true meaning. It
is equivalent to having said, it shall not be permitted to foreign
privateers, that is to say, privateers "not belonging," &c. Unless
too, these words are understood in this manner, they make non-
sense of the whole clause. To perceive this, it is only necessary
to remark, that the foreign privateers intended to be prohibited
from the privilege of arming, &c, are expressly those which have
commissions from a power at war with one of the parties.

Then, if the words " not belonging, &c," are to be used as
words of exception, the natural reading of the clause would be as
follows. " It shall not be permitted to foreign privateers which
have commissions from a prince or state at war with one of the
two nations, to fit or arm in the ports of the other unless those
privateers so commissioned belong to the subjects or citizens of
the one or the other of the contracting parties."

This exception would then operate to produce one of these
two effects, both equally absurd. Either to authorize one of the
contracting parties to permit privateers belonging to their own
citizens, under commission from a power at war with the other,
to fit or arm in its ports ; thus allowing its subjects or citizens
with impunity, and even countenance, to partake in the war
against the other of the contracting parties ; or to authorize one
of the parties to permit privateers belonging to the subjects or
citizens of the other, under commission from a power at war with
such other party, to fit or arm in the ports of the first mentioned
party ; thus enabling one party to give aid and countenance to
the subjects of the other, when carrying on war against their own
nation or sovereign, and consequently in the situation of rebels
or pirates.

At. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 121

No sense more rational can be given to the words in question,
when understood as words of exception, having regard to the due
and natural connection and import of the terms which imme-
diately precede and succeed. It follows that they cannot be
understood as words of exception, but merely as words of descrip-
tion, and that the inference attempted to be drawn from them is
forced and unwarrantable. Indeed, neither as words of exception,
or as words of description, do they give the least color to that
inference.

If the printed copies of the treaty are accurate, the punctua-
tion is a farther illustration that the words " not belonging, &c,"
are merely words of additional description. In the French ori-
ginal, they are not divided even by a comma from the words
"corsaire etranger," — "foreign privateer," which they imme-
diately follow, forming with them the first member of the sen-
tence and connected with the next member of it by the pronoun
"lequel," or which il ne sera permis a aucun corsaire etranger
non appartenant a quel que sujet de sa majeste tres chretienne, ou
a un citoyen des dits Etats Unis, lequel, &c.

The words in question cannot, without making the clause
nonsense, be understood as words of exception in another view.
The words " foreign privateers" are naturally to be understood as
privateers foreign to both parties. If the words, u not belonging,
&c," are not taken as words of additional description, but of ex-
ception, that is to say, if they are to be understood as equivalent
to saying, " except privateers belonging to the subjects of, and
commissioned by one of the parties," it leads to a contradiction
of terms : it would be equivalent to saying, " it shall not be per-
mitted to foreign privateers, not foreign, &c," for privateers be-
longing to the subjects of and commissioned by one of the parties,
would not be foreign to both the parties.

But if it were possible consistently with the context, to give
the words " non appartenant," or " not belonging," the effect of
an exception favoring the construction which is contended for,
it could not at any rate go further than to authorize vessels pre-
viously fitted out and commissioned in the ports of France, and
coming into our ports in the capacity of privateers, there to fit or

122 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [2Et. 36.

arm ; it could not possibly extend to the original fitting out,
arming, and commissioning of privateers by one party in the
ports of another ; the expressions of every part of the clause pre-
suppose that the vessels intended are already privateers, having
commissions, &c, when they come into the ports of the respective
parties.

And it is well known, that the detention complained of
applies entirely to vessels which have been made privateers in
our own port.

If any confirmation were requisite, in so plain a case, of the
construction which appears to have been adopted by the execu-
tive of the general government, it might be found in the regula-
tions of France herself at the time our treaty Avith her was made.
Those regulations show, that it was the policy of France to
restrict to her own ports the fitting out of privateers, with a
variety of precautions to secure their good behavior, their
accountability, and the rights and interests of all concerned ; from
which it is to be inferred that the clause in question, was not
intended to establish a right on either side to fit out privateers
in the ports of the other, such a right being incompatible with
the then existing policy of France.

Indeed, such a right would be incompatible with the pre-
servation of peace by either party, when the other was engaged
at war, for as it would make one auxiliary to the other in this
vexatious and irritating mode of hostility to an indefinite extent,
it would be stronger than the case of a definite succor stipulated
on a defensive alliance, and could not fail to involve the party
permitting it in the war.

It is not presumable that a mere incidental regulation in a
treaty of commerce could have been intended to include a con-
sequence so important ; and it could only have been admitted
upon the strength of terms explicit and unequivocal.

All advantages relating to war, which are stipulated in favor
of one nation, so as to be incommunicable to another, include
more or less of hazard. They are apt to produce irritations,
which produce war. In every case of doubt, therefore, upon the
construction of treaties, the rule is against the concession of such

jEt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 123

advantages. The principles of interpretation favor nothing that
tends to put the peace of a nation in jeopardy. It is incumbent
on a power at war, claiming of a neutral nation, on the ground of
treaty, particular privileges of a military nature, to rest his pre-
tensions upon clear and definite, not upon doubtful or obscure
expressions. When founded upon expressions of the latter kind,
this claim is always to be rejected.

Hence, consequently, the pretension to fit or arm in our ports
privateers antecedently commissioned in the ports of France,
beyond the mere point of reparation, is inadmissible. It is not
necessary to admit it for the sake of finding a useful object for
the clause in question. That clause will have a very natural
and a very useful application, when it is understood as merely a
prohibition to prevent a power at war with the other, to fit or
arm privateers in the ports of the party at peace. For without
it each party would have been at liberty to grant by treaty such
a right to other powers, which is now prevented.

An argument against every construction of this kind, may be
drawn from the seventeenth article of the treaty of commerce.
This article grants affirmatively to the armed vessels of each
party, certain privileges in the ports of the other. 'Tis there we
should naturally look for a privilege so important as the one
claimed ; not in an article, the general object of which plainly is
to exclude other powers from privileges in the ports of the con-
tracting parties. The omission of the privilege claimed in the
clause where it would naturally be included, is a reason against
admitting it upon a forced construction of a clause where it would
not naturally be expected.

Upon the whole, there is no plausible ground for the preten-
sion set up. The natural construction of the clause of the treaty
which has been quoted, obviously excludes it, and the United
States cannot, ex gratia, accede to it without departing from neu-
trality, and encountering the mischiefs of a war with which they
have nothing to do.

The result is, that a pretension to fit out privateers in our
ports against our will, is an insult to our understandings, and a
glaring infraction of our rights.

124 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

Tlie residue of the Jacobin's charges will be hereafter exa-
mined.

" No Jacobin."

NO. II.

1793.

The next charge of breach of treaty exhibited by the Jacobin
against the executive of the United States is, to use his own
language, " the seizure of prizes made known to the agents of
the French republic at the moment those prizes were held up for
sale. The orders given to the military to take possession of a
French vessel, without previous complaint, explanation, or com-
munication with the agents of the French republic, said to be
contraventions of the 17th article of the treaty of commerce, by
which it is provided " that it shall be lawful for the ships of war
and privateers of either party, freely to carry whithersoever they
please, the ships and goods taken from their enemies, without
being obliged to pay any duty to the officers of the admiralty
or any other judges, and without those prizes entering into the
ports of the one party or the other, being liable to be arrested or
seized, nor can the officers of the places take cognizance of the
validity of the said prizes, which may go out and be conducted
freely and in all liberty to the places expressed in their com-
missions, which the commanders of the said vessels shall be
obliged to show, &c."

It is presumed, that the facts complained of are more par-
ticularly applicable to the case of the ship William, arrested in
this port ; though it is understood that the same proceedings,
with some small difference of circumstances, took place in the
case of another vessel in New-York.

To judge of the propriety of the complaint in each case, it is
necessary to attend to the following particulars. According to
the general laws and usage of nations, the jurisdiction of every
country extends a certain distance into the sea along the whole

Mt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 125

extent of its coast. What this distance is, remains a matter of
some uncertainty, though it is an agreed principle that it at least
extends to the utmost range of cannon shot, that is, not less
than four miles. But most nations claim and exercise jurisdic-
tion to a greater extent. Three leagues, or nine miles, seem to
accord with the most approved rule, and would appear from
Martin, a French author, to be that adopted by France, though
Valin, another French author, states it at only two leagues, or
six miles.

Within this distance of the coast of a neutral country, all
captures made by a power at war upon its enemy, are illegal and
null, on the principle of its being a violation of the jurisdiction
and protection of the neutral country. This principle, founded
on the most evident reason, is asserted by all writers, and prac-
tised upon by all nations.

Every nation has a right to prevent a violation of its juris-
diction, and consequently to prevent the making of captures
within that jurisdiction. A right to redress if such captures be
made is a necessary consequence. A neutral nation is bound to
prevent injuries within its jurisdiction to a power with which it is
at peace, by any other power. In other words, it owes fair guard
and protection to the citizens and subjects of every power with
which it is at peace. It is therefore bound to exert itself to pre-
vent captures within the limits of its protection of the subjects or
property of one power by another power, and if such capture
happens to avail itself of its own right of redress, against the
power making it, for the purpose of effecting a restitution of the
person or thing captured.

This is too plain to be denied ; but it is pretended that the
redress of the injury is to be sought through the channel of ne-
gotiation only, and not by the immediate exertion of the autho-
rity of the neutral nation, to cause restitution to be made in the
first instance, either by means of courts of justice, or by the use
of the public force.

It may boldly be affirmed that this position is founded neither
on principle nor the opinion of writers, nor on the practice of
nations ; not on principle, because it is unreasonable to suppose

126 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 36.

that a nation ought to postpone the opportunity of redressing
itself and of doing justice to another, upon the uncertain issue of
a negotiation of which it cannot forsee the success. When the
object is out of its reach, the way of negotiation ought to be pur-
sued ; for the alternative then is to negotiate or go to war, and a
due moderation requires that a preference should be given to the
milder course ; but if the object to which the injury relates is
within its power, the most prudent as well as the most dignified
and efficacious course is to embrace the opportunity of rectifying
what has been done amiss, for this seems to terminate the affair,
and avoid the controversies and heats too often incident to nego-
tiation.

The position in question is not founded on the opinion of
writers, for these establish a contrary doctrine — as may be seen in
Bynkershoek's Quasstiones Publici Juris, Book I, Chap. 8 ; Vatel,
Book II. Sec. 84, 101, 102, and 289 ; 2 K. Inst., 587-589 ; Leo-
line Jenkin's Life and Papers, vol. 1, xcv. ; vol. 2, page 727, 733,
751, 752, 754, 755, 780 ; Woodeson's Lectures, page 443 ; Doug-
lass' Rep., 595 ; Lee on Captures, Cap. IX. — nor on the practice of
nations, for this is in favor of summary prevention and redress,
as may be seen by one example which those writers quote, and
is within experience of individuals among ourselves. A neutral
fortress never scruples to fire upon the vessels of any power
which attempts to commit a hostility against another power
within reach of its cannon, nor a neutral sovereign or magistrate
to prevent or restore captures made within his jurisdiction.*

The foregoing observations will lead to a right judgment of
the merits of the complaint which is made.

* Indeed our treaties with several powers oblige us to this conduct. In the 5th
article of that with Holland, the 2d of that with Sweden, the 7th of that with
Prussia, the United States in affirmance of the general doctrine of the laws of
nations " bind themselves by all means in their power to endeavor to protect all
vessels and other effects belonging to the subjects and inhabitants of those powers
respectively, in their ports, roads, havens, internal seas, passes, rivers, and as far as
their jurisdiction extends at sea, and to recover and cause to be restored to the
true proprietors, all such vessels and effects which shall be taken under their
(protection) jurisdiction," which is a plain indication that our then negotiators and
government never dreamt of the newly invented construction of that treaty.

JEt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 127

Each of the vessels in question is understood to have been
taken within a distance short of the least of the two distances
which has been mentioned as forming the rule observed by
France, one of them seems less than three miles, the other within
less than five miles.

It may therefore be affirmed that both these captures were
made within the limits of the protection of the United States,
and in violation of their jurisdiction. And it will follow, from the
principles which have been maintained, that the United States
have a right and are bound to cause restitution of those prizes.

To this conclusion is opposed that provision of the article
which declares, that the local officers cannot take cognizance of
the validity of the prizes which are carried by one party into the
harbors or ports of the other.

But there is no established rule of interpretation with regard
either to laws or treaties, than that general expressions shall
never be so understood as to involve unreasonableness or ab-
surdity. According to this rule the general expression " the
local officers," (les officers des lieux) " cannot take cognizance of
the validity of the prizes," must naturally be understood with
reference to prizes made on the high seas without the jurisdiction
of the party into whose harbors or ports they are brought, not
with reference to prizes taken within the protection and jurisdic-
tion of such party. The following qualification is from the
nature of things implied in the general terms, to wit : provided
the prizes have not been taken within the jurisdiction of the
party in whose ports they shall be. An interpretation so exten-
sive as to embrace prizes made within the jurisdiction of such
party, would lead to a consequence not less absurd than this.
A vessel of the United States might be taken by a French priva-
teer in the port of Philadelphia, and there would be no power to
question the validity of the prize or enforce restitution. Such a
consequence is too violent to be admissible, and a position which
includes it refutes itself. It can never be imagined that any
nation could mean to tie up her hands to such an extent.

If then prizes of vessels belonging to the United States or
their citizens shall be excepted, it will follow that the clause

128 HAMILTON'S WORKS. L^T- 36-

cannot in this respect be taken in a literal sense ; and if it is to
be taken in a rational, not a literal sense, it will admit the excep-
tions of all prizes taken within the jurisdiction or protection of
the party within whose territories they are found, being at peace
with the nation of whom or of whose citizens it is made, for a
state owes protection not only to its own citizens but to the citi-
zens of every other nation with which it is at peace, coming
within its jurisdiction for commerce or any other lawful cause.
Nor can it even be supposed upon the strength of mere general
expressions that it has meant to exchange the right of affording
protection and security by its own power and authority, for that
of negotiating with another nation the reparation which may be
due to a violation of its jurisdiction. So essential an alienation
of jurisdiction could only be deduced from precise and specific
as well as express terms.

Besides such an inference is broader even than the letter of
the clause. Tis only to the ofiiciers des lieux, the local officers, or
officers of the harbors, ports or places to which the prizes are
brought, that the cognizance of their validity is forbidden ; 'tis
not to the general judiciary tribunals or general executive autho-
rity of the country that such cognizance is denied. The ex-
pressions, officiers des lieux, are not of a nature to comprehend
them. They are therefore under no prohibition by the treaty,
and consequently, as far as consists with the jus gentium or law
of nations, are at liberty to interpose.

And the rule of the law of nations is this, that a neutral
nation shall not interpose to examine the validity of prizes made
by a power at war, from its enemies, at any place except one
which is within the jurisdiction of such neutral nation. It is of
the essence of jurisdiction to redress all wrongs which happen
within its sphere. Powers at war have no right in derogation
from the peculiar jurisdiction of a neutral nation. That juris-
diction therefore is in the same force against them as against
powers at peace. What would be a marine trespass in the one
case, is so in the other. A capture within the protection or
jurisdiction of a neutral state is not a lawful act of war, but a

JEt.36.] no jacobin. 129

mere trespass, of course -within the competency of the neutral
state to redress it.*

It may be asked why, if this was the rule of the law of na-
tions, there should have been a particular article of treaty con-
cerning it ? The answer is, 1st. That it is a common practice to
introduce into treaties stipulations recognizing the rules of the
law of nations, in order to avoid controversy about them, of
which there are several examples in our treaties. 2d. That the
article secures to France something more than the usage of
several nations admits, namely, a right to continue in our ports
an indefinite time, and the benefit of an exclusion of the pri-
vateers of her enemies, having made prizes of the subjects, people,
or property of France, from the degree of asylum to which they
would otherwise be entitled. These are sufficient objects for the
article without giving to it an extension subversive of the just
and necessary jurisdiction of the country.

It is clearly demonstrated by what has been said that the
government of the United States has an undoubted right to in-
terpose authority, not by mere negotiation, to effect the restora-
tion of the ships in question to their original owners, and that
the doing so, either by a direct exertion of the public force or
by means of judicial process, is consistent both with the laws of
nations, and with the true meaning of our treaty with France.
It therefore gives no handle to the complaint of breach of treaty.
To what department of the government it most regularly belongs
to effect the requisite redress — whether to the Executive or to the
Judiciary, or to both indiscriminately, is not yet settled in this
country, nor is it material to any foreign nation. It is a mere
question between the departments of our own government. So
long as nothing is done which is contrary to the laws of nations

* The rights of war only take place in the countries of the powers at war, or on
the high seas which are common to hoth. If acts of hostility are committed within
a neutral territory, they do not partake of the rights of war, they cannot be judged
of by the laws of war, nor have any of the rules of war the smallest relation to
them. As trespasses they are liable to be redressed in the ordinary course of
justice, as infringements of territorial rights they claim redress and punishment
from the executive authority of the injured country.

G 9

130 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

or to treaty, a foreign power can have no ground of com-
plaint.

As to the point of previous application to the agents of the
foreign nation concerned, this belongs to a mere question of
civility, not of right ; there being in every such case a direct
responsibility on the part of the neutral nation to the power
whose citizens or property may have been captured. The power
making the capture cannot justly be dissatisfied if the surest
method of performing its duty is adopted by the neutral nation.
This is to take the prize in the first instance into custody, till a
fair and full examination can be had into the fact with regard to
the place of capture, as was done in the instances in question.

This course, too, would naturally obtain till some arrange-
ment should have been concerted between the government and
the agents of the powers at war, and is the only one which can
be observed in places where there are no such agents. And it
would seem, from what took place in the case of the William,
immediately after her seizure, that such an arrangement has been
subsequently agreed upon ; which is a proof that the course pur-
sued was not the effect of unkindly disposition. But if there
had been a disposition to proceed with strictness and rigor, it
will be shown in the sequel that it was fully warranted by the
very disrespectful treatment we have experienced from the
agents of France, who have acted towards us from the beginning
more like a dependent colony than an independent nation. A
state of degradation, to which I trust that the freedom of the
American mind will never deign to submit.

No Jacobin.

no. III.

1793.
Another accusation against the Executive of the United
States preferred by the Jacobin, is derived from this circumstance ;
^hat while by the treaty between the United States and France

&t. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 131

the goods of her enemies on board our ships are exempt from
capture, the goods of France on board our ships are subject to
the depredation of her enemies, without any steps being taken by
the executive to cause French property to be returned, and to
prevent similar hardships being in future imposed.
• This has, if possible, still less color than any of the others.

By the general law of nations as laid down by writers, and
practised upon by nations, previous to the late war between the
United States and Great Britain, this rule was clearly and fully
established.

That the goods of an enemy in the ships of a friend (that is,
of a neutral power) are lawful prizes, and that the goods of a
friend in the ships of an enemy (those called contraband ex-
cepted) are not lawful prizes. This rule is founded upon the
principle that one enemy may lawfully take the goods of another
wheresoever he finds them, except within the jurisdiction or
dominion of a neutral state. Of course he may take them upon
the high seas, where no nation can have jurisdiction or dominion.
Vattel, book iii., s. 115, 116 ; Bynkershoek. Quass. Jur. Pub.,
lib. i., cap. 13, 14.

It necessarily follows that French property taken by the
enemies of France in American vessels, is by the law of na-
tions lawful prize, and that American property (not of the
contraband kind) taken by Frenchmen in the ships of their
enemies, is not according to the same law lawful prize. To the
forming a right judgment then on this part of the Jacobin's
charges, and to determine whether France is not benefited rather
than injured by the alterations which have taken place, the fol-
lowing observations may perhaps be useful.

During the war between the United States and Great Britain,
certain powers who associated under the denomination of the
armed neutrality, asserted a rule the reverse of that which had
before prevailed and which has been stated But this association,
made with a view to the then existing war, terminated with it.
The United States never acceded to that association. They con-
tented themselves with introducing its principle into their treaties
with such powers with whom they formed treaties. Accordingly

132 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 36.

it is to be found in our treaties with France, Holland, Sweden,
and Prussia.

Great Britain, on her part, has never acceded to the new prin-
ciple as a general rule ; and there are other powers of Europe
who did not originally unite in the attempt to introduce it, and
who are not known to have since done any act amounting to an
adoption of it.

An established rule of the law of nations can only be altered
by agreements between all the civilized powers, or a new usage
generally adopted and sanctioned by time.

Neither having happened in the present case, the old prin-
ciple must be considered as still forming the basis of the general
law of nations,, liable only to the exceptions resulting from par-
ticular treaties.

With France, Holland, Sweden, and Prussia, four of the
belligerent parties, we have treaties containing the new principle ;
but with Eussia, England, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Savoy, we
have no such treaties. Against the former powers, therefore, we
have a right to claim the new principle, as they would against
us, were we in a state of war and they at peace. Between us
and the latter powers the old rule must govern until a departure
from it can be regulated by mutual consent.

As we cannot of right assert the new principle against those
powers with whom we have not established it by treaty, so
neither can we even in prudence or good policy insist upon it,
unless we are prepared to support it by arms.

There is not a doubt that all the powers who are at liberty to
pursue the old rule will do it. In a war of opinion and passion
like the present, concessions to ill-founded or doubtful preten-
sions are not to be expected. Nor are the United States in a
condition to attempt to enforce such claims.

But it seems that the not having hitherto manifested a dispo-
sition towards this species of knight-errantry, is an injury and
offence to France. The Jacobin deems it a breach of our treaty
with her, that we do not quarrel with other nations for an object
which we can claim of them neither by the law of nations nor
by treaty.

JEt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 133

It appears that the Jacobin is ready enough to insist upon
and even to enlarge constructively all the peculiar advantages
which our treaty with France gives to her ; but any circumstance
of supposed inconvenience to her, is in his eyes a sore grievance,
while he seems insensible to those which operate against us.
This very reasonable gentleman ought to remember, that if the
property of the enemies of France in our ships is protected by
our treaty with her, the property of our citizens in the ships of
these enemies loses by that treaty the immunity or security to
which it would otherwise be entitled, and that this important
sacrifice on our part was agreed to, that Ave might have the ad-
vantage of being the carriers during European wars.

His silence on this head can only be accounted for on the
supposition that if he really belongs to this country, he is
blinded to her interests by foreign influence. He ought to
remember that the citizens of France have already enjoyed the
sweets of this departure by treaty from the law of nations at the
expense of our citizens. This happened in the case of the brig
Little Sarah, on board of which was a quantity of flour belonging
to citizens of Philadelphia. This flour was considered and
treated as a lawful prize.

He ought also to remember that it is at best problematical
whether the citizens of the United States have not more property
afloat in the bottoms of the powers at war with France, than the
citizens of France have afloat in bottoms of the United States,
and consequently whether the balance is not in favor of France.

What is there in our history that can authorize our being
degraded with the supposition that we are ignorant both of our
duties and our rights ?

The result of what has been shown evidently is, that the
Jacobin 's charge has no better foundation than that the Executive
of the United States has not quarrelled with the enemies of
France, for doing what by the law of nations they have a right
to do.

No Jacobin.

134 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 36.

NO. IV.

1793.

I have, I believe, sufficiently answered charges which the
Jacobin has brought against the Executive of the United States.

In doing this, it has been shown that the claim of a right on
the part of France to fit out privateers in the ports of the United
States, as derived from treaty, is without foundation. As this is
the basis on which it has been rested, and indeed it is the only
one upon which it could rest if at all to be supported, it is not
necessary, by way of answer to the Jacobin, to discuss how the
claim of such a right would stand independent of treaty. But a
few remarks on this point, for the information of those who may
not be familiar with subjects of the kind, may not be without
use.

It is a plain dictate of reason and an established principle of
the law of nations, that a neutral state in any matter relating to
war (not specially promised by some treaty made prior to the
commencement of the war and without reference to it) cannot
lawfully succor, aid, countenance, or support either of the parties
at war with each other : cannot make itself, or suffer itself to be
made, with its own consent, permission, or connivance, an instru-
ment of the hostility of one party against the other, and as a
consequence of these general principles cannot allow one party
to prepare within its territories the means of annoying the other,
or to carry on from thence against the other, with means pre-
pared there, military expeditions of any sort by land or water.

To allow such practices is manifestly to associate with one
party against the other. The state which does it ceases thereby
to be a neutral state, becomes an enemy, and may be justly
treated as such. In common life it is readily understood that
whoever knowingly assists my enemy to injure me becomes him-
self, by doing so, my enemy also ; and the reason being the
same, the case cannot be different between nations.

Could it be necessary to enforce principles so clearly founded
on common sense by authorities and precedents, it might be

Mr. 36.]

NO JACOBIN. 135

done by an appeal to writers and to the general practice of na-
tions. The following are a few of these that might be adduced :
Vattel, book iii. sec. 104 ; Bynkershoek, Quest. Jur. Pub., lib.
i. cap. 4, particularly pages 69-70 of Latin edition; Idem,
cap. 8, particularly page 65 of the same edition; Leoline
Jenkins, 2d vol., 728, 756; Valin, lib. iii. tit. ix. art. xiv. p.
272.

Some of these establish only the general principles, others of
them go directly to the point of carrying on military expeditions
from the territories of the neutral state, and even to that of fit-
ting out privateers in the ports of such state ; pronouncing the
neutral state to be answerable for the consequences, and giving
the party injured a right to reparation. This reparation may
either be in damages, to be paid by the neutral state, or by repri-
sals, at the option of the party injured.

It appears from them, moreover, that on the ground of the
laws of neutrality, some nations (if it be not a general usage) go
so far as to exclude from remaining in their ports more than
twenty -four hours (if not detained by tempest), armed vessels of
one belligerent party coming within its ports with prizes made
of another. It was an article of the marine ordinances of France
under the former gorvernment (and it is not known to have
been changed), that " no vessel taken by a captain having a
foreign commission, can remain more than twenty-four hours in
the ports or harbors of France, if not detained there by tempest,
or if the prize has not been made of the enemies of France."

And Valin, advocate and procurator for the king at the seat
of the admiralty of Rochelle, has this comment upon that arti-
cle, " Plenary asylum is due only to those with whom we are not
at war. To enemies we owe no more than the safety of their
lives ; to others we owe hospitality and good treatment, with
liberty to go away when they judge proper.

" Nevertheless, as neutrality with two powers at war permits
not to succor one to the prejudice of the other, to conciliate
this consideration with the right of asylum, nations have tacitly
agreed, and usage has made it a common law, that asylum shall
be granted to foreign armed vessels with their prizes; that is to

136 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

say, if entered into a port through tempest, as long as the bad
weather shall not permit them to put to sea, and for four-and-
twenty hours only, if they shall have put in from any other
cause.

" Thus, except the case of tempest, vessels being in a condi-
tion to make sail, there is an obligation to make them depart
and return to sea after twenty -four hours, whatever danger there
may be of recapture by their enemies ; otherwise it would be to
violate the laws of neutrality."

(See the authorities before referred to.)

The same idea which is to be found in this author, appears
in the writings of Leoline Jenkins, also above referred to, who
was judge of the High Court of Admiralty of England, in the
reign of James II. This serves to show the extreme nicety
of nations on the point of neutrality. But how much stronger
the case of fitting out armed vessels in a neutral port to make
prizes, than that of simply coming into and staying in it with
prizes that have been made !

Another reflection occurs in relation to this point, which is
this : that the government of the United States, in a matter at
least of doubtful propriety, has given to France a doubtful privi-
lege to which she was not entitled by treaty, that of selling the
prizes made by her armed vessels in their ports; the treaty
stipulated nothing more than a free access and egress. Let it be
judged from this how far a disposition to deny France the privi-
leges which she may claim by treaty has governed. It is true,
and in that the United States must seek their justification with
other powers, that writers are not agreed as to this rule with re-
gard to prizes; some considering it as lawful to sell them in neu-
tral ports, as may be seen, Vattel, book iii. cap. 7, sec. 232.
But still it appears that the government, in a doubtful case, has
followed the course which favors France. And it is questiona-
ble whether the examples of national regulations, and the opin-
ions of a judge and a lawyer versed. in the practice of courts of
admiralty and more drawn to attend critically to the point of
usage, ought not to have more weight than those of writers who
were in a situation to have been guided more by general theory.

jEt. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 137

It appears likewise that the Regent of Sweden, who, like us,
has pursued the path of neutrality in the present war, has made
the point of fitting out privateers a particular article of prohibi-
tion ; an example in practice which has great weight in the ques-
tion. The governments of Europe know by long experience
the usages of war, and without consulting the authorities or pre-
cedents, are able to pronounce with facility on what is lawful,
what unlawful.

The example, then, of Sweden, is a respectable confirmation
of what is the usage of nations on the point in question.

It is easy too to discern that the United States would become
one of the most mischievous enemies which the maritime powers
opposed to France could have, if from their territories armed
vessels could be fitted out to an indefinite extent, with the full use
of the means to cruise against the trade of those powers, if the
prizes made by such armed vessels could be brought into their
ports and sold ; and if their professed neutrality could give asy-
lum and security to these vessels and the fruits of their depreda-
tions. The inference is, that such a state of things could not
possibly be long tolerated by those powers, but would lead
inevitably to involving the United States in the war.

A consequence, no doubt, well understood, and unquestiona-
bly intended by the agents of France, who, with delusive profes-
sions of not desiring to embark this country in the war, are
industriously employing every expedient that can tend to pro-
duce the event.

No Jacobin.

August 16. 1793.

The observations hitherto made have been designed to vindi-
cate the Executive of the United States from the aspersions cast
upon it by the Jacobin. Let us now examine what has been the
conduct of the agents of France.

13S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 36.

Mr. Genet, charged with the commission of Minister Plenipo-
tentiary from the French Republic to the United States, arrived
first at Charleston, South Carolina. Instead of coming immedi-
ately on to the seat of government, as in propriety he ought to
have done, he continued at that place and on the road so long as
to excite no small degree of observation and surprise. Here, at
once, the system of electrifying the people (to use a favorite
phrase of the agents of France) began to be put in execution.
Discerning men saw, from this first opening of the scene, what
was to be the progress of the drama. They perceived that nego-
tiation with the constitutional organs of the nation was not the
only means to be relied upon for carrying the points with which
the Representative of France was charged — that popular in-
trigue was at least to second, if not to enforce, the efforts of ne-
gotiation.

During the stay of Mr. Genet at Charleston, without a possi-
bility of sounding or knowing the disposition of our government
on the point, he causes to be fitted out two privateers, under
French colors, and commissions to cruise from our ports against
the enemies of France. Citizens of the United States are engaged
to serve on board these privateers, contrary to the natural duties
of humanity between nations at peace, and contrary to the posi-
tive stipulations of our treaties with some of the powers at war
with France. One of these privateers makes a prize of an Eng-
lish vessel, brings her into the port of Charleston, where a Consul
of France proceeds to try, condemn, and sell her ; unwarranted
bj usage, by treaty, by precedent, by permission. It is impossi-
ble for a conduct less friendly or less respectful than this to have
been observed. To direct violations of our sovereignty, amount-
ing to a serious aggression, was added a dangerous commitment
of our peace, without even the ceremony of previously feeling
the pulse of our government. The incidents that attended Mr.
Genet's arrival here, previous to his reception, though justly sub-
ject to criticism, shall be passed over in silence. Breaches of de-
corum lose their importance when mingled with injuries and out-
rages.

This offensive commencement of his career was not made an

Mr. 36.] NO JACOBIN. 139

objection to his reception ; though it would probably have been
so in any other country in the world. It has not been alleged
either that there was any want of cordiality in that reception.
We shall see what return was made for this manifestation of mod-
eration and friendship. Knowing, as we do, the opposition of
the government to the prevention of fitting out privateers in our
ports, it cannot be doubted that an early opportunity was taken
to make known its disapprobation to the French Minister; nor
is it possible that the Executive of the United States can have
neglected to remonstrate against so improper an exercise of Con-
sular jurisdiction as that which has been mentioned ; yet we have
seen that the practice of fitting out privateers has been openly
persisted in. Their number has so increased, and their depreda-
tions have been so multiplied, as to give just cause of alarm for
the consequences to the peace of this country. It is also matter
of notoriety that the Consuls of France have gone on with the
condemnation of prizes ; that one of them has had the audacity,
by a formal protest to the District Court of New- York, not only
to deny its jurisdiction, but to arrogate to himself a complete and
exclusive jurisdiction over the case.

The aggravating circumstances which attended the fitting out
the Little Democrat at this port, under the very nose of the gov-
ernment; the means which were used to obtain a suspension of
her progress until the return of the President to the seat of gov-
ernment ; the refusal which those overtures met with ; the intem-
perate and menacing declarations which they produced on the
part of the French Minister — have been the subject of general
conversation.

How much more there is in the case ; what further contempt
of the government may have succeeded the return of the Presi-
dent, can only be matter of conjecture. We know, however, that
the Little Democrat proceeded to sea ; and we conclude, from the
known consistency of our Chief Magistrate, that this could not
have been with his consent.

Prosecutions have been instituted, and carried on, against
some of our citizens for entering into the service of France. It i?
known that Mr. Genet has publicly espoused and patronized the

140 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 36.

practice, even, as it is asserted without contradiction, to the feeing
of counsel for carrying on the defence of the guilty ; and we see,
but a few days since, an advertisement from the Consul of France
at Philadelphia, inviting to enter into her service, not only her
own citizens but all friends to liberty, including of course the
citizens of the United States.

We read of cases in which one nation has raised men for
military service in the dominions of another, with the consent of
the nation in whose territories they were raised ; but the raising
of men, not only without the consent but against the will of the
government of the country in which they are raised ; is a novelty
reserved for the present day, to display the height of arrogance
on one side and the depth of humiliation on the other. This is
but a part of the picture.*

No Jacobin.

REPLY OF WASHINGTON.

Draft by Hamilton.
To Nicholas Cruger, Esq., Chairman of a Meeting of the Citizens of New-York,

1793.

Sir:

Your letter, conveying to me the resolutions of the citizens of
New- York at their late meeting, affords me much satisfaction.

The approving voice of my fellow-citizens can never be heard
by me with indifference. That of the inhabitants of your re-
spectable metropolis must always give particular pleasure. An
unanimity so perfect as appears to have prevailed among them
upon an occasion so interesting to our national peace and hap-
piness, furnishes an example of good sense, moderation, and
patriotic virtue, which cannot cease to be remembered to their
honor. Discerning in it a sure pledge of their firm and perse-

* Hamilton being ill with the yellow fever, these essays were not continued.

jEt.37.] AMERICANUS. 141

vering support, I request you to make known to them the high,
sense I entertain of the dispositions they have manifested, and
the complete reliance I place upon those dispositions.

I cannot omit the opportunity of publicly uniting with them
in acknowledging the prompt and decided co-operation of the
Governor of New-York, towards the support of the neutrality of
our country. The disposition hitherto shown by the Chief Ma-
gistrates of the several States in relation to this point, is a pleas-
ing evidence of a spirit of concern for the general good, happily
calculated to harmonize and invigorate all the parts of our politi-
cal system.

George Washington.

AMERICANUS.
i.

February 1, 1794.
The two following papers were prepared some time since, but from
particular circumstances have been postponed. The fresh appearances
of a covert design to embark the United States in the war, induce their
publication at this time.

An examination into the question how far regard to the cause
of Liberty ought to induce the United States to take part with
France in the present war, is rendered necessary by the efforts
which are making to establish an opinion, that it ought to have
that effect. In order to a right judgment on the point, it is re-
quisite to consider the question under two aspects.

I. Whether the cause of France be truly the cause of Liberty,
pursued with justice and humanity, and in a manner likely to
crown it with honorable success.

II. Whether the degree of service we could render, by partici-

142 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

patingin the conflict, was likely to compensate, by its utility to the
cause, the evils which would probably Aoav from it to ourselves.

If either of these questions can be answered in the negative,
it will result, that the consideration which has been stated ought
not to embark us in the war.

A discussion of the first point will not be entered upon. It
would involve an examination too complicated for the compass
of these papers ; and, after all, the subject gives so great scope to
opinion, to imagination, to feeling, that little could be expected
from argument. The great leading facts are before the public ;
and by this time most men have drawn their conclusions so
firmly, that the issue alone can adjust their differences of opin-
ion. There was a time when all men in this country entertained
the same favorable view of the French revolution. At the pre-
sent time, they all still unite in the wish, that the troubles of
France may terminate in the establishment of a free and good
government; and dispassionate, well-informed men must equally
unite in the doubt whether this be likely to take place under
the auspices of those who now govern the affairs of that coun-
try. Bat agreeing in these two points, there is a great and seri-
ous diversity of opinion as to the real merits and probable issue
of the French revolution.

None can deny, that the cause of France has been stained by
excesses and extravagances, for which it is not easy, if possible,
to find a parallel in the history of human affairs, and from which
reason and humanity recoil. Yet many find apologies and ex-
tenuations with which they satisfy themselves ; the}r still see in
the cause of France, the cause of liberty ; they are still sanguine
in the hope, that it will be crowned with success; that the French
nation will establish for themselves not only a free, but a repub-
lican government, capable of promoting solidly their happiness.
Others, on the contrary, discern no adequate apology for the hor-
rid and disgusting scenes, which have been and continue to be
acted. They conceive, that the excesses which have been com-
mitted, transcend greatly the measure of those which, with every
due allowance for circumstances, were reasonably to have been
expected. They perceive in them proofs of atrocious depravity

jEt. 37.] AMERICANUS. 143

in tlie most influential leaders of the revolution. They observe
that among these, a Marat* and a Kobertspjerre, assassins
still reeking with the blood of their fellow-citizens, monsters who
outdo the fabled enormities of a Busiris and a Procrustes, are pre-
dominant in influence as well as iniquity. They find every where
marks of an unexampled dissolution of all the social and moral
ties. They see nowhere any thing but principles and opinions
so wild, so extreme, passions so turbulent, so tempestuous, as
almost to forbid the hope of agreement in any rational or well-
organized system of government. They conclude that a state of
things like this is calculated to extend disgust and disaffection
throughout the nation, to nourish more and more a spirit of
insurrection and mutiny ; facilitating the progress of the invading
armies, and exciting in the bowels of France commotions, of
which it is impossible to compute the mischief, the duration, or
the end : that if by the energy of the national character, and the
intrinsic difficulty of the enterprise, the enemies of France shall
be compelled to leave her to herself, this era may only prove
the commencement of greater misfortunes : that after wading
through seas of blood, in a furious and sanguinary civil war,
France may find herself at length the slave of some victorious
Sylla, or Marius, or Caesar: and they draw this afflicting infer-
ence from the whole view of the subject, that there is more
reason to fear, that the Cause of True Liberty has received a
deep wound in the mismanagements of it, by those who, unfor-
tunately for the French nation, have for a considerable time past
maintained an ascendant in its affairs, than to regard the revolu-
tion of France in the form it has lately worn, as entitled to the
honors due to that sacred and all important cause ; or as a safe
bark in which to freight the fortunes, the liberties, and the
reputation of this now respectable and happy land.

AVithout undertaking to determine which of these opposite
opinions rests most firmly on the basis of facts, I shall content
myself with observing, that if the latter is conceived to have but

* This man has lately met a fate, which, though the essential interests of so-
ciety will not permit us to approve, loses its odium in the contemplation of the
character.

144 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 37.

a tolerable foundation, it is conclusive against the propriety of
our engaging in the war, merely through regard for the cause of
Liberty. For when we resolve to put so vast a stake upon
the chance of the die, we ought at least to be certain that the
object for which we hazard is genuine, is substantial, is real !

Let us then proceed to the discussion of the second question.
To judge of the degree of aid which we could afford to France
in her present struggle, it may be of use to take a brief view of
the means with which we carried on the war, that accomplished
our own revolution.

Our supplies were derived from six sources. 1st, paper mo-
ney; 2d, domestic loans; 3d, foreign loans; 4th, pecuniary
taxes , 5th, taxes in specific articles ; 6th, military impress.

The first of these resources, with a view to a future war, may
be put out of the question. Past experience would forbid its be-
ing again successfully employed, and no friend to the morals,
property, or industry of the people, to public or private credit,
would desire to see it revived.

The second would exist, but probably in a more limited ex-
tent. The circumstance of a depreciating paper, which the
holders were glad, as they supposed, to realize, was a considerable
motive to the loans obtained during the late war. The magnitude
of them, however, even then, forms a small proportion to the ag-
gregate expense.

The third resource would be equally out of the question
with the first. The principal lending powers would be our ene-
mies, as they are now those of France.

The three remaining items — pecuniary taxes — taxes on spe-
cific articles — military impress, could be employed again in a fu-
ture war, and are the resources upon which we should have
chiefly to rely ; for the resource of domestic loans, though valu-
able, is not a very extensive one, in a community where capitals
are so moderate as in ours.

Though it is not to be doubted, that the people of the United
States would hereafter, as heretofore, throw their whole property
into a common stock for their common defence against internal
invasion, or an unprovoked attack — who is there sanguine

At. 37.] AM ERIC ANUS. 145

enough to believe, that large contributions of any kind, could be
extracted from them to carry on an external war, voluntarily un-
dertaken for a foreign and speculative purpose ?

The expectation were an illusion. Those who may entertain
it ought to pause and reflect, whatever enthusiasm might have
been infused into a part of the community would quickly yield
to more just and sober ideas, inculcated by experience of the
burthens and calamities of war. The circuitous logic by which
it is attempted to be maintained, that a participation in the war is
necessary to the security of our own liberty, would then appear
as it truly is, a mere delusion, propagated by bribed incendiaries,
or hair-brained enthusiasts ; and the authors of the delusion
would not fail to be execrated as the enemies of the public weal.

The business would move on heavily in its progress, as it was
in its origin impolitic, while the faculty of the government to ob-
tain pecuniary supplies, would, in the case supposed, be circum-
scribed within a narrow compass ; levies of men would not be
likely to be more successful. No one would think of detaching
the militia for distant expeditions abroad ; and the experience we
have had in our Indian enterprises, do not authorize strong ex-
pectations of going far by voluntary enlistments, where the ques-
tion is not, as it was during the last war, the defence of the fun-
damental rights and essential interests of the whole community.
The severe expedient of drafting from the militia, a principal re-
liance in that war, would put the authority of government in the
case to a very critical test.

This summary view of what would be our situation and pros-
pects, is alone sufficient to demonstrate the general position, that
our ability to promote the cause of France, by external exertions,
could not be such as to be very material to the event.

Let us, however, for more complete elucidation, inquire to
what particular objects they could be directed.

Fleets we have not, and could not have, in time, or to an
extent, to be of use in the contest.

Shall we raise an army and send it to France ? she does not
want soldiers. Her own population can amply furnish her armies.

G 10

146 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

The number we could send, if we could get them there at all,
would be of no weight in the scale.

The true wants of France are of system, order, money, provi-
sions, arms, military stores.

System and order we could not give her by engaging in the
war. The supply of money in that event would be out of our
power. At present we can pay our debt to her in proportion as
it becomes due. Then we could not do this — provision and
other supplies, as far as we are in condition to furnish them,
could not be furnished at all. The conveyance of them would
become more difficult — and the forces we should be obliged our-
selves to raise, would consume our surplus.

Abandoning then, as of necessity we must, the idea of aiding
France in Europe, shall we turn our attention to the succor of
her islands? Alas ! we should probably have here only to com-
bat their own internal disorders, to aid Frenchmen against French-
men — whites against blacks, or blacks against whites ! If we
may judge from the past conduct of the powers at war with
France, their effort is immediately against herself; — her islands
are not, in the first instance, a serious object. But grant, as it is
not unlikely, that they become so, is it evident that we can co-
operate efficaciously to their preservation ; or if we can, what
will this have to do with the preservation of French liberty ?
The dangers to this arise from the invasion of foreign armies,
carried into the bosom of France — from the still more formidable
assault of civil dissension and the spirit of anarchy.

Shall we attack the islands of the powers opposed to
France ?

How shall we without a competent fleet carry on the neces-
sary expeditions for the purpose ? Where is such a fleet ? How
shall we maintain our conquests after they are made ? What
influence could the capture of an island or two have upon the
general issue of the contest? These questions answer them-
selves— or shall we endeavor to make a diversion in favor of
France, by attacking Canada on the one side and Florida on the
other ?

This certainly would be the most, indeed the only eligible

JEt. 37.] AMERICANUS. 147

mode of aiding France in war, these enterprises may be con-
sidered as within the compass of our means.

But while this is admitted, it ought not to be regarded as a
very easy task. The reduction of the countries in question
ought not to be undertaken without considerable forces, for rein-
forcements could be brought to both those countries from the
West India possessions of their respective sovereigns ; relying on
their naval superiority, they could spare from the islands all the
troops which were not necessary for the preservation of their
internal tranquillity.

These armies are then to be raised and equipped, and to be
provided with all the requisite apparatus for operation. Pro-
portionate magazines are to be formed for their accommodation
and supply.

Some men, whose fate it is to think loosely, may imagine that
a more summary substitute could be found in the militia. But
the militia, an excellent auxiliary for internal defence, could not
be advantageously employed in distant expeditions, requiring
time and perseverance. For these, men regularly engaged for a
competent period, are indispensable. The conquest of Canada,
at least, may with reason be regarded as out of the reach of a
militia operation.

If war was resolved upon, the very preparation of the means
for the enterprises which have been mentioned would demand
not less than a year ; before this period was elapsed, the fate of
France, as far as foreign invasion is concerned, would be decided.
It would be manifest, either that she could or could not be subju-
gated by force of external coertion. Our interposition would be
too late to benefit her. It appears morally certain, that the war
against France cannot be of much duration. The exertions are
too mighty to be long protracted.

The only way, on which the enterprises in question could
serve the cause of France, would be by making a diversion of a
part of those forces, which would otherwise be directed against
her. But this consequence could not be counted upon. It would
be known, that we could not be very early ready to attack with
effect, and it would be an obvious policy to risk secondary objects

148 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 37.

rather than be diverted from the efficacious pursuit of the main
one. It would be natural in such case to rely for indemnification
on the successful result of the war in Europe. The governments
concerned imagine that they have too much at stake upon that
result, not to hazard considerably elsewhere, in order to secure
the fairest chance of its being favorable to their wishes.

It would not probably render the matter better, to precipitate
our measures for the sake of a more speedy impulse. The
parties ought in such case to count upon the abortion of our
attempts from their immaturity, and to rely the more confidently
upon the means of resistance already on the spot. Indeed, that
very precipitation would leave no other option.

We could not therefore flatter ourselves that the expedient
last proposed — that of attacking the possessions of Great Britain
and Spain in our neighborhood, would be materially serviceable
to the cause of France.

But to give the argument its fairest course, I shall take
notice of two particulars in respect to which our interference
would be more sensibly felt. These are the depredations which
our privateers might make upon the commerce of the maritime
enemies of France, and what is of far greater consequence, the
direct injury which would accrue to that of Great Britain from
the interruption of intercourse between the two countries, con-
sidering the shock lately sustained by mercantile credit in that
country — the real importance to it of our imports from thence,
and our exports thither — the large sums which are due, and in
a continual course of remittance from our merchants — a war
between the United States and Great Britain could not fail to be
seriously distressing to her.

Yet it would be weak to calculate upon a very decisive in-
fluence of these circumstances. The public credit of Great Bri-
tain has still energy sufficient to enable her to struggle with
much partial derangement. Her private credit, manifestly dis-
ordered by temporary causes, and propped as it has been by the
public purse, seems to have recovered in a great degree, its
impaired tone. Her commerce, too suddenly interrupted by the
breaking out of the war, may be presumed to have resumed its

JEt. 37.] AMERICANUS. 149

wonted channels, in proportion as the progress of her naval pre-
parations has tended to give it protection, and though the beino-
at war with us would be very far from a matter of indifference
either to her commerce or to her credit, yet it is not likely that it
would arrest her career, or overrule those paramount considera-
tions which brought her into her present situation.

When we recollect how she maintained herself under a pri-
vation of our commerce, through a seven years' war with us,
united for certain periods of it with France, Spain, and Holland,
though we perceive a material difference between her present
and her then situation, arising from that very effort, yet we
cannot reasonably doubt that she would be able, notwithstanding
a similar privation, to continue a war, which in fact does not call
for an equal exertion on her part, as long as the other powers
with which she is associated shall be in condition to prosecute
it with a hope of success; nor is it probable, whatever may be
the form or manner of the engagement, that Great Britain could,
if disposed to peace, honorably make a separate retreat. It is
the interest of all parties in such cases, to assure to each other a
co-operation; and it is presumable, that this has taken place in
some shape or other between the powers at present combined
against France.*

The conclusion from the several considerations which have
been presented, carefully and dispassionately weighed, is this,
that there is no probable prospect of this country rendering
material service to the cause of France, by engaging with her in
the war.

It has been very truly observed in the course of the pub-
lications on the subject, that if France is not in some toay or other
wanting to herself slie will not stand in need of our assistance ; and
ifs/ie is, our assistance cannot save her.

Americaxus.

* The treaties between Great Britain, Spain, Russia, and Prussia, which since
writing the above have made their appearance, confirm what is here conjectured.

150 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

NO. II.

February 8th, 1794.

Let us now turn to the other side of the medal ; to be struck
with it, it is not necessary to exaggerate.

All who are not willfully blind must see and acknowledge,
that this country at present enjoys an unexampled state of pros-
perity. That war would interrupt it need not be affirmed. We
should then by war lose the advantage of that astonishing pro-
gress in strength, wealth, and improvement, which we are now
making, and wh'ich, if continued for a few years, will place our
national rights and interests upon immovable foundations. This
loss alone would be of infinite moment : it is such a one as no
prudent or good man would encounter but for some clear ne-
cessity or some positive duty. If, while Europe is exhausting
herself in a destructive war, this country can maintain its peace,
the issue will open to us a wide field of advantages, which even
imagination can with difficulty compass.

But a check to the progress of our prosperity is not the
greatest evil to be anticipated. Considering the naval superiority
of the enemies of France, we cannot doubt that our commerce
would in a very great degree be annihilated by a war. Our
agriculture would of course with our commerce receive a deep
wound. The exportations which now continue to animate it
could not fail to be essentially diminished. Our mechanics
would experience their full share of the common calamity. That
lively and profitable industry, which now spreads a smile over
all of our cities and towns, would feel an instantaneous and rapid
decay.

Nine-tenths of our present revenues are derived from com-
mercial duties. Their declension must of course keep pace with
that of the trade. A substitute cannot be found in other sources
of taxation, without imposing heavy burthens on the people.
To support public credit and carry on the war would suppose
exactions really grievous. To abandon public credit would be
to renounce an important mean of carrying on the war ; besides

Mi. 37.]

AMERICAN US. 151

the sacrifice of the public creditors and the disgrace of a national
bankruptcy.

We will not call in the aid of savage butcheries and depreda-
tions to heighten the picture. 'Tis enough to say, that a general
Indian war, excited by the united influence of Britain and Spain,
would not fail to spread desolation throughout our frontier.

To a people who have so recently and so severely felt the evils
of war, little more is necessary than to appeal to their own recol-
lection, for their magnitude and extent.

The war which now rages is, and for obvious reasons is likely
to continue to be, carried on with unusual animosity and rancor.
It is highly probable that the resentment of the combined powers
against us, if we should take part in it, would be, if possible, still
more violent than it is against France. Our interference would
foe regarded as altogether officious and wanton. How far this
idea might lead to the aggravation of the ordinary calamities of
war, would deserve serious reflection.

The certain evils of our joining France in the war, are suf-
ficient dissuasives from so intemperate a measure. The possible
one#are of a nature to call for all our caution, all our prudence.

To defend its own rights, to vindicate its own honor, there
are occasions when a nation ought to hazard even its existence.
Should such an occasion occur, I trust those who are most averse
to commit the peace of the country, will not be the last to face
the danger, nor the first to turn their backs upon it.

But let us at least have the consolation of not having rashly
courted misfortune. Let us have to act under the animating re-
flection of being engaged in repelling wrongs, which we neither
sought nor merited ; in vindicating our rights, invaded without
provocation; in defending our honor, violated without cause. Let
us not have to reproach ourselves with having voluntarily bar-
tered blessings for calamities.

But we are told that our own liberty is at stake upon the
event of the war against France — that if she foils, we shall be
the next victim. The combined powers, it is said, will never
forgive in us the origination of those principles which were the
germs of the French revolution. They will endeavor to eradi-
cate them from the world.

152 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 37.

If this suggestion were ever so well founded, it would perhaps
be a sufficient answer to it to say, that our interference is not
likely to alter the case ; that it would only serve prematurely
to exhaust our strength.

But other answers more conclusive present themselves.

The war against France requires, on the part of her enemies,
efforts unusually violent. They are obliged to strain every
nerve, to exert every resource. However it may terminate, they
must find themselves spent in an extreme degree ; a situation
not very favorable to the undertaking a new, and even to Europe
combined, an immense enterprise.

To subvert by force republican liberty in this country,
nothing short of entire conquest would suffice. This conquest,
with our present increased population, greatly distant as we are
from Europe, would either be impracticable, or would demand
such exertions, as following immediately upon those which will
have been requisite to the subversion of the French revolution,
would be absolutely ruinous to the undertakers.

It is against all probability that an undertaking, pernicious
as this would be, even in the event of success, would* be
attempted against an unoffending nation, by its geographical
position, little connected with the political concerns of Europe.

But impediments would arise from more special causes.
Suppose France subdued, and a restoration of the monarchy in its
ancient form, or a partition effected — to uphold either state of
things, after the general impulse in favor of liberty which has
been given to the minds of twenty -four millions of people, would
in one way or another find occupation for a considerable part of
the forces which had brought it about.

In the event of an unqualified restoration of the monarchy,
if the future monarch did not stand in need of foreign legions for
the support of his authority, still the powers which had been con-
cerned in the restoration could not sufficiently rely upon the
solidity of the order of things re-established by them, not to keep
themselves in a posture to be prepared against the disturbance of
it, till there had been time to compose the discordant interests
and passions produced by the revolution, and bring back the

iET. 37.J AMERICANUS. 153

nation to ancient habits of subordination — in the event of a par-
tition of France, it would of course give occupation to the forces
of the conquerors to secure the submission of the dismembered
parts.

The new dismemberment of Poland will be another obstacle
to the detaching of troops from Europe for a crusade against this
country — the fruits of that transaction can only be secured to
Eussia and Prussia by the agency of large bodies of forces, kept
on foot for the purpose, within the dismembered territories.

Of the powers combined against France, there are only three
whose interests have any material reference to this country ;
England, Spain, Holland. As to Holland, it will be readily con-
ceded that she can have no interest or feeling to induce her to
embark in so mad and wicked a project. Let us see how the
matter will stand with regard to Spain and England.

The object of the enterprise against us must be, either the
establishment in this country of a royal in place of our present
republican government, the subjugation of the country to the
dominion of one of the parties, or its division among them.

The establishment of an independent monarchy in this
country would be so manifestly against the interests of both
those nations, in the ordinary acceptation of this term in politics,
that neither of them is at all likely to desire it.

It may be adopted as an axiom in our political calculations,
that no foreign power which has valuable colonies in America,
will be propitious to our remaining one people under a vigorous
government.

No man, I believe, but will think it probable, however dis-
advantageous the change in other respects, that a monarchical
government, from its superior force, would ensure more effectually
than our present form, our permanent unity as a nation. This
at least would be the indubitable conclusion of European cal-
culators ; from which may be confidently inferred a disinclination
in England and Spain to our undergoing a change of that kind.

The only thing that can be imagined capable of reconciling
either of those powers to it, would be the giving us for monarch
a member of its own royal family, and forming something like a
family compact.

154 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

But here would arise a direct collision of interests between
them. Which of them would agree that a prince of the family
of the other, should, by reigning over this country, give to that
other a decided preponderancy in the scale of American affairs ?

The subjugation of the United States to the dominion of
those powers, would fall more strongly under a like considera-
tion. 'Tis impossible that either of them should consent that the
other should become master of this country, and neither of them
without madness could desire a mastery, which would cost more
than 'twas worth to maintain it, and which, from an irresistible
course of things, could be but of very short duration.

The third, namely the division of it between them, is the
most colorable of the three suppositions. But even this would
be the excess of folly in both. The dominion of neither of them
could be of any permanency, and while it lasted, would cost
more than it was worth. Spain on her part could scarcely fail
to be sensible that, from obvious causes, her dominion over the
part which was allotted to her, would be altogether transient.

The first collision between Britain and Spain would indu-
bitably have one of two effects, either a temporary reunion of
the whole country under Great Britain, or a dismission of the
yoke of both.

The latter, by far the most probable and eventually certain,
would discover to both the extreme absurdity of the project. If
the first step was a reunion under Great Britain, the second, and
one not long deferred, would be a rejection of her authority.

The United States, rooted as are now the ideas of indepen-
dence, are happily too remote from Europe to be governed by
her ; dominion over any part of them would be a real misfortune
to any nation of that quarter of the globe.

To Great Britain, the enterprise supposed would threaten
serious consequences in more ways than one. It may safely be
affirmed, that she would run by it greater risks of bankruptcy
and revolution, than we of subjugation. A chief proportion of
the burthen would unavoidably fall upon her as the monied and
principal maritime power, and it may emphatically be said, that
she would make war upon her own commerce and credit. There

JEt. 37.]

AMERICANUS. 155

is the strongest ground to believe that the nation would disrelish
and oppose the project. The certainty of great evils attending it,
the dread of much greater, experience of the disasters of the last
war, would operfte upon all : many, not improbably a majority,
would see in the enterprise a malignant and wanton hostility
against liberty, of which they might themselves expect to be the
next victim. Their judgments and their feelings would easily
distinguish this case from that either of their former contest with
us, or their present contest with France. In the former, they
had pretensions to support which were plausible enough to mis-
lead their pride and their interest. In the latter, there were
strong circumstances to rouse their passions, alarm their fears,
and induce an acquiescence in the course which was pursued.

But a future attack upon us, as is apprehended, would be so
absolutely pretextless, as not to be understood. Our conduct will
have been such as tof entitle us to the reverse of unfriendly or
hostile dispositions ; while powerful motives of self-interest would
advocate with them our cause.

But Britain, Spain, Austria, Prussia, and perhaps even Rus-
sia, will have more need and a stronger desire of peace and
repose, to restore and recruit their wasted strength and exhausted
treasures, to re-invigorate the interior order and industry of their
respective kingdoms, relaxed and depressed by war, than either
means or inclination to undertake so extravagant an enterprise
against the liberty of this country.

If there can be any danger to us, it must arise from our
voluntarily thrusting ourselves into the war. Once embarked,
nations sometimes prosecute enterprises of which they would not
otherwise have dreamt. The most violent resentment, as before
intimated, would no doubt in such case be kindled against us,
for what would be called a wanton and presumptuous inter-
meddling on our part ; what this might produce, it is not easy
to calculate.

There are two great errors in our reasoning upon this subject.
One, that the combined powers will certainly attribute to us the
same principles, which they deem so exceptionable in France ;
the other, that our principles are in fact the same.

156 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 37.

If left to themselves, they will all, except one, naturally see
in us a people who originally resorted to a revolution in govern-
ment, as a refuge from encroachments on rights and privileges
antecedently enjoyed, not as a people who from*choice sought a
radical and entire change in the established government, in pur-
suit of new privileges and rights carried to an extreme, irrecon-
cilable perhaps with any form of regular government. They
will see in us a people who have a due respect for property and
personal security ; who, in the midst of our revolution, abstained
with exemplary moderation from every thing violent or sangui-
nary, instituting governments adequate to the protection of per-
sons and property ; who, since the completion of our revolution,
have in a very short period, from mere reasoning and reflection,
without tumult or bloodshed, adopted a form of general govern-
ment calculated, as well as the nature of things would permit, to
remedy antecedent defects, to give strength and security to the
nation, to rest the foundations of liberty on the basis of justice,
order and law ; who have at all times been content to govern
themselves, without intermeddling with the affairs or govern-
ments of other nations; in fine, they will see in us sincere
republicans, but decided enemies to licentiousness and anarchy ;
sincere republicans, but decided friends to the freedom of opinion,
to the order and tranquillity of all mankind. They will not see
in us a people whose best passions have been misled, and whose
best qualities have been perverted from their true direction by
headlong, fanatical, or designing leaders, to the perpetration of
acts from which humanity shrinks, to the commission of out-
rages over which the eye of reason weeps, to the profession and
practice of principles which tend to shake the foundations of
morality, to dissolve the social bands, to disturb the peace of
mankind, to substitute confusion to order, anarchy to govern-
ment.

Such at least is the light in which the reason or the passions
of the powers confederated against France, lead them to view her
principles and conduct. And it is to be lamented, that so much
cause has been given for their opinions. If, on our part, we give
no incitement to their passions, facts too prominent and too deci-

^Et. 37.] TULLY. 157

sive to be combated, will forbid their reason to bestow the same
character upon us.

It is therefore matter of real regret, that there should be an
effort on our part to level the distinctions which discriminate our
case from that of France, to confound the two cases in the view
of foreign powers, and to pervert or hazard our own principles
by persuading ourselves of a similitude which does not exist.

Let us content ourselves with lamenting the errors which a
great, a gallant, an amiable, a respectable nation has been be-
trayed, with uniting our wishes and our prayers, that the Supreme
Ruler of the world will bring them back from those errors to a
more sober and more just way of thinking and acting, and will
overrule the complicated calamities which surround them, to
the establishment of a government under which they may be
free, secure, and happy. But let us not corrupt ourselves by
false comparisons or glosses, nor shut our eyes to the true nature
of transactions which ought to grieve and warn us, nor rashly
mingle our destiny in the consequences of the errors and extra-
vagancies of another nation.

Amekicanus.

TULLY.

To the People of the United States.

I.

August 23, 1794.

It has, from the first establishment of your present Constitu-
tion, been predicted, that every occasion of serious embarrass-
ment which should occur in the affairs of the government, every
misfortune which it should experience, whether produced from
its own faults or mistakes, or from other causes, would be the
signal of an attempt to overthrow it, or to lay the foundation of
its overthrow, by defeating the exercise of constitutional and

158 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

necessary authorities. The disturbances which have recently
broken out in the western counties of Pennsylvania, furnish
an occasion of this sort. It remains to see whether the predic-
tion which has been quoted proceeded from an unfounded jea-
lousy excited by partial differences of opinion, or was a just
inference from causes inherent in the structure of our political
institutions. Every virtuous man, every good citizen, and espe-
cially every true republican, must fervently pray, that the
issue may confound and not confirm so ill-omened a prediction.

Your firm attachment to the government YOU have estab-
lished, cannot be doubted.

If a proof of this were wanting to animate the confidence of
your public agents, it would be sufficient to remark, that as often
as any attempt to counteract its measures appear, it is carefully
prepared by strong professions of friendship to the government
and disavowals of any intention to injure it. This can only re-
sult from a conviction that the government carries with it your
affections ; and that an attack upon it, to be successful, must veil
the stroke under the appearances of good will.

It is therefore very important that you should clearly dis-
cern, in the present instance, the shape in which a design of turn-
ing the existing insurrection to the prejudice of the government
would naturally assume. Thus guarded, you will more readily
discover and more easily shun the artful snares which may be
laid to entangle your feelings and your judgment, and will be
the less apt to be misled from the path by which alone you can
give security and permanency to the blessings you enjoy, and
can avoid the incalculable mischiefs incident to a subversion of
the just and necessary authority of the laws.

The design alluded to, if it shall be entertained, would not
appear in an open justification of the principles or conduct of the
insurgents, or in a direct dissuasion from the support of the gov-
ernment. These methods would produce general indignation
and defeat the object. It is too absurd and shocking a position
to be directly maintained, that forcible resistance by a sixtieth
part of the community to the representative will of the whole,
and to constitutional laws expressed by that will, and acquiesced

Mt. 37.] TULLY. 159

in by the people at large, is justifiable or even excusable. It is
a position too untenable and disgusting to be directly advocated,
that flie government ought not too be supported in exertions to
establish the authority of the laws against a resistance so incapa-
ble of justification or excuse.

The adversaries of good order in every country have too
great a share of cunning, too exact a knowledge of the human
heart, to pursue so unpromising a cause. Those among us
would take upon the present occasion one far more artful, and
consequently far more dangerous.

They would unite with good citizens, and perhaps be among
the loudest in condemning the disorderly conduct of the insur-
gents. They would agree that it is utterly unjustifiable, con-
trary to the vital principle of republican government, and of the
most dangerous tendency. But they would, at the same time,
slily add, that excise laws are pernicious things, very hostile to
liberty (or perhaps they might more smoothly lament that the
government had been imprudent enough to pass laws so con-
trary to the genius of a free people), and they would still more
cautiously hint that it is enough for those who disapprove of
such laws to submit to them — too much to expect their aid in
forcing them upon others. They would be apt to intimate fur-
ther, that there is reason to believe that the Executive has been
to blame, sometimes by too much forbearance, encouraging the
hope that the laws would not be enforced, at other times in pro-
voking violence by severe and irritating measures ; and they
would generally remark, with an affectation of moderation and
prudence, that the case is to be lamented, but difficult to be re-
medied ; that a trial of force would be delicate and dangerous ;
that there is no foreseeing how or where it would end ; that it is
perhaps better to temporize, and by mild means to allay the fer-
ment, and afterwards to remove the cause by repealing the ex-
ceptionable laws. They would probably also propose, by antici-
pation of and in concert with the views of the insurgents, plans
of procrastination. They would say, if force must finally be
resorted to, let it not be till after Congress has been consulted,
who, if they think fit to persist in continuing the laws, can make

160 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 37.

additional provision for enforcing their exe cution. This, too,
they would argue, will afford an opportunity for the public sense
to be better known, which (if ascertained to be in favor of the
laws) will give the government greater assurance of success in
measures of coercion.

By these means, artfully calculated to divert YOUR attention
from the true question to be decided, to combat by prejudices
against a particular system, a just sense of the criminality and
danger of violent resistance to the laws ; to oppose the sugges-
tion of misconduct on the part of government to the fact of
misconduct on the part of the insurgents ; to foster the spirit of
indolence and procrastination natural to the human mind, as an
obstacle to the vigor and exertion which so alarming an attack
upon the fundamental principles of public and private security
demands; to distract your opinion on the course proper to be
pursued, and consequently on the propriety of the measures
which may be pursued. They would expect (I say) by these
and similar means equally insidious and pernicious, to abate
your just indignation at the daring affront which has been of.
fered to your authority and your zeal for the maintenance and
support of the laws, to prevent a competent force, if force is
finally called forth, from complying with the call, and thus to
leave the government of the Union in the prostrate condition of
seeing the laws trampled under foot by an unprincipled combi-
nation of a small portion of the community, habitually disobe-
dient to laws, and itself destitute of the necessary aid for vindi-
cating their authority.

Virtuous and enlightened citizens of a new and happy coun-
try ! ye could not be the dupes of artifices so detestable, of a
scheme so fatal ; ye cannot be insensible to the destructive con-
quences with which it would be pregnant ; ye cannot but re-
member that the government is your own work, that those who
administer it are but your temporary agents ; that you are called
upon not to support their power, but your own power. And
you will not fail to do what your rights, your best interests,
your character as a people, your security as members of society,
conspire to demand of you.

TULLY.

JEt. 37.] TULLY. 161

II.

August 25: 1794.

It has been observed that the means most likely to be em-
ployed to turn the insurrection in the western country to the
detriment of the government, would be artfully calculated among
other things " to divert your attention from the true question to
be decided."

Let us see then what is this question. It is plainly this —
Shall the majority govern or be governed? shall the nation
rule or be ruled ? shall the general will prevail, or the will of a
faction ? shall there be government, or no government ? It is
impossible to deny that this is the true, and the whole question.
]So art, no sophistry can involve it in the least obscuri:

The Constitution you have ordained for yourselves and your
posterity contains this express clause: "The Congress shall have
r to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay
the debts, and provide for the common defence and general welfare
of the United States.*' You have, then, by a solemn and delibe-
rate act, the most important and sacred that a nation can perform,
pronounced and decreed, that your representatives in Congress
shall have power to lay excises. You have done nothing since to
reverse or impair that decree.

Your representatives in Congress, pursuant to the comm> -
derived from you, and with a full knowledge of the public exi-
gencies, have laid an excise. At three succeeding sessions they
have revised that act, and have as often, with a degree of unani-
mity not common, and after the best opportunities of knowing
your sense, renewed their sanction to it, you have acquiesced in
it, it has gone into general operation: and you have actually paid
more than a million of dollars on account of it.

But the four western counties of Pennsylvania, undertake to
rejudge and reverse your decrees. You have said, " The Cong - -
shaM have power to lay excises." They say, " The Cong. --
not have this power."' Or, what is equivalent — they shall not ex-
ercise it: for a power that may not be exercised is a nr.!

G 11

162 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 37.

Your representatives have said, and four times repeated it, " An
excise on distilled spirits shall be collected." They say it shall
not be collected. We will punish, expel, and banish the officers
who shall attempt the collection. We will do the same by every
other person who shall dare to comply with your decree expressed
in the constitutional charter ; and with that of your representa-
tives expressed in the laws. The sovereignty shall not reside
with you, but with us. If you presume to dispute the point
by force, we are ready to measure swords with you, and if une-
qual ourselves to the contest, we call in the aid of a foreign
nation. We will league ourselves with a foreign power.

If there is a man among us who shall affirm that the question
is not what it has been stated to be — who shall endeavor to perplex
it by ill-timed declamations against excise laws — who shall strive
to paralyze the efforts of the community by invectives or insinua-
tions against the government — who shall inculcate directly, or
indirectly, that force ought not to be employed to compel the
insurgents to a submission to the laws, if the pending experiment
to bring them to reason (an experiment which will immortalize
the moderation of the government) shall fail — such a man is not
a good citizen ; such a man, however he may prate and babble
republicanism, is not a republican ; he attempts to set up the will
of a part against the will of the whole, the will of a faction
against the will of the nation, the pleasure of a few against your
pleasure, the violence of a lawless combination against the
sacred authority of laws pronounced under your indisputable
commission.

Mark such a man, if such there be. The occasion may enable
you to discriminate the true from pretended republicans; your
friends from the friends of. faction. 'Tis in vain that the latter
shall attempt to conceal their pernicious principles under a crowd
of odious invectives against the laws. Your answer is this:
" We have already in the constitutional act decided the point
against you, and against those for whom you apologize. We
have pronounced that excises may be laid, and consequently that
they are not, as you say, inconsistent with Liberty. Let our will
be first obeyed, and then we shall be ready to consider the

jEt. 37.] TULLY. 163

reasons which can be afforded to prove our judgment has been
erroneous : and if they convince us to cause them to be observed.
We have not neglected the means of amending in a regular
course the constitutional act. And we shall know how to make
our sense be respected whenever we shall discover that any part of
it needs correction. But as an earnest of this, it is our intention
to begin by securing obedience to our authority, from those who
have been bold enough to set it at defiance. In a full respect
for the laws, we discern the reality of our power and the means
of providing for our welfare as occasion may require ; in the con-
tempt of the laws we see the annihilation of our power ; the
possibility, and the danger of its being usurped by others, and
of the despotism of individuals succeeding to the regular autho-
rity of the nation." That a fate like this may never await you,
let it be deeply imprinted in your minds, and handed down to
your latest posterity, that there is no road to despotism more sure
or more to be dreaded than that which begins at anarchy.

Threats of joining the British are actually thrown out — how

far the idea may go is not known.

Tully.

HI.

August 28, 1794.
If it were to be asked, "What is the most sacred duty, and the
greatest source of security in a Eepublic ? the answer would be,
An inviolable respect for the Constitution and Laws — the first
growing out of the last. It is by this, in a great degree, that the
rich and the powerful are to be restrained from enterprises against
the common liberty — operated upon by the influence of a general
sentiment, by their interest in the principle, and by the obstacles
which the habit it produces erects against innovation and en-
croachment. It is by this, in a still greater degree, that caballers,
intriguers, and demagogues, are prevented from climbing on the
shoulders of faction to the tempting seats of usurpation and tyr-
anny.

164 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 37.

Were it not that it might require too long a discussion, it
would not be difficult to demonstrate that a large and well-organ-
ized Republic can scarcely lose its liberty from any other cause
than that of anarchy, to which a contempt of the laws is the high
road.

But, without entering into so wide a field, it is sufficient to
present to your view a more simple and a more obvious truth,
which is this : that a sacred respect for the constitutional law is
the vital principle, the sustaining energy of a free government.

Government is frequently and aptly classed under two descrip-
tions— a government of force, and a government of laws ; the
first is the definition of despotism — the last, of liberty. But how
can a government of laws exist when the laws are disrespected
and disobeyed ? Government supposes control. It is that power
by which individuals in society are kept from doing injury to
each other, and are brought to co-operate to a common end. The
instruments by which it must act are either the authority of
the laws or force. If the first be destroyed, the last must be
substituted ; and where this becomes the ordinary instrument of
government, there is an end to liberty !

Those, therefore, who preach doctrines, or set examples which,
undermine or subvert the authority of the laws, lead us from free-
dom to slavery ; they incapacitate us for a government of LAWS,
and consequently prepare the way for one of force, for mankind
must have government of one sort or another. There are,
indeed, great and urgent cases where the bounds of the Constitu-
tion are manifestly transgressed, or its constitutional authorities
so exercised as to produce unequivocal oppression on the commu-
nity, and to render resistance justifiable. But such cases can
give no color to the resistance by a comparatively inconsiderable
part of a community, of constitutional laws distinguished by no
extraordinary features of rigor or oppression, and acquiesced in
by the body of the community.

Sucli a resistance is treason against society, against liberty,
against every thing that ought to be dear to a free, enlightened,
and prudent people. To tolerate it, were to abandon your most
precious interests. Not to subdue it, were to tolerate it. Those

jEt. 37.] TULLY. 165

who openly or covertly dissuade you from exertions adequate to
the occasion, are your worst enemies. They treat you either as
fools or cowards, too weak to perceive your interest or your duty,
or too dastardly to pursue them. They, therefore, merit and
will, no doubt, meet your contempt. To the plausible but hol-
low harangue of such conspirators you cannot fail to reply, How
long, ye Catilines, will ye abuse our patience ?

To urge the execution of that system, would manifest, it is
said, an intemperate spirit; and to excite your disapprobation of
that course, you are threatened with the danger of a civil war,
which is called the consummation of human evil.

To crown the outrage upon your understandings, the insur-
gents are represented as men who understand the principles of
freedom, and know the horrors and distresses of anarchy, and
who, therefore, must have been tempted to hostility against the
laws by a radical defect, either in the government or in those
intrusted with its administration. How thin the partition which
divides the insinuation from the assertion, that the government is
in fault, and the insurgents in the right ! •

Fellow-citizens : A name, a sound has too often had influence
on the aftairs of nations; an excise has too long been the
successful watchword of party. It has even sometimes led astray
well-meaning men. The experiment is now to be tried whether
there be any spell in it of sufficient force to unnerve the arm
which may be found necessary to be raised in defence of law and
order.

The jugglers who endeavor to cheat us with the sound, have
never dared to venture into the fair fields of argument. They are
conscious that it is easier to declaim than to reason on the subject.
They know it to be better to play a game with the passions and
prejudices, than to engage seriously with the understanding of
the auditory. You have already seen that the merits of excise
laws are immaterial to the question to be decided — that you have
prejudged the point by a solemn constitutional act, and that until
you shall have revoked or modified that act, resistance to its op-
eration is a criminal infraction of the social compact, an inversion
of the fund-amenta! principles of Republican Government, and a

166 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. SI.

daring attack upon tour Sovereignty, — which you are bound, by
every motive of duty and self-preservation, to withstand and de-
feat. The matter might safely be suffered to rest here : but I shall
take a future opportunity to examine the reasonableness of the
prejudice which is inculcated against excise laws, and which has
become the pretext for excesses tending to dissolve the bands of
society.

Fellow-citizens: You are told that it will be intemperate to
urge the execution of the laws which are resisted. What? Will it
be indeecKntemperate in your Chief Magistrate, sworn to main-
tain the Constitution, charged faithfully to execute the laws, and
authorized to employ for that purpose force, when the ordinary
means fail — will it be intemperate in him to exert that force,
when the Constitution and the laws are opposed by force ? Can
he answer it to his conscience, to you, not to exert it?

Yes, it is said ; because the execution of it will produce civil
war — the consummation of human evil.

Fellow-citizens : Civil war is, undoubtedly, a great evil. It is
one that every good ntan would wish to avoid, and will deplore
if inevitable. But it is incomparably a less evil than the de-
struction of Government. The first brings with it serious but
temporary and partial ills : the last undermines the foundations
of our security and happiness ; and where should we be if it were
once to grow into a maxim, that force is not to be used against
the seditious combinations of parts of the community to resist the
laws ? This would be to give a carte blanche to ambition, to
licentiousness, to foreign intrigue, to make you the prey of the
gold of other nations — the sport of the passions and vices of in-
dividuals among yourselves. The hydra Anarchy would rear
its head in every quarter. The goodly fabric you have established
would be rent asunder, and precipitated into the dust. You knew
how to encounter civil war rather than surrender your liberty to
foreign domination ; you will not hesitate now to brave it rather
than to surrender your sovereignty to the tyranny of a faction ;
you will be as deaf to the apostles of anarchy now as you were to
the emissaries of despotism then. Your love of liberty will guide
you now as it did then ; you know that the power of the major-

Mr. 37.] TULLY. 16 Y

ity and liberty are inseparable. Destroy that, and this perishes.
But, in truth, that which properly can be called civil war is not
to be apprehended — unless from the act of those who endeavor
to fan the flame, by rendering the Government odious. A civil
war is a contest between two great parts of the same empire.
The exertion of the strength of the nation to suppress resistance
to its laws, by a sixtieth part of itself, is not of that description.

After endeavoring to alarm you with the horrors of civil war,
an attempt is made to excite your sympathy in favor of the
armed faction, by telling you that those who compose it are men
who understand the principles of freedom, and know the horrors
and distresses of anarchy, and must therefore have been prompted
to hostility against the laws by a radical defect either in the
government or in its administration. Fellow-citizens, for an
answer to this you have only to consult your senses. The
natural consequences of radical defect in a government, or in its
administration, are national distress and suffering. Look around
you — where is it ? Do you feel it ? Do you see it ?

Go in quest of it beyond the Alleghany, and instead of it you
will find that there also a scene of unparalleled prosperity up-
braids the ingratitude and madness of those who are endeavoring
to cloud the bright face of our political horizon, and to mar the
happiest lot that beneficent Heaven ever indulged to undeserving
mortals.

When you have turned your eyes towards that scene, exa-
mine well the men whose knowledge of the principles of freedom
is so emphatically vaunted — where did they get their better know-
ledge of those principles than that which you possess ? How is
it that you have been so blind or tame as to remain quiet, while
they have been goaded into hostility against the laws by a rad-
ical defect in the government or its administration ? Are you
willing to yield them the palm of discernment, of patriotism, or
of courage ?

TULLY.

168 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 37.

IV.

Sept. 2, 1794.
The prediction mentioned in my first letter begins to be ful-
filled. Fresh symptoms every moment appear of a dark conspi-
racy, hostile to your government, to your peace abroad, to your
tranquillity at home. One of its orators dares to prostitute the
name of Franklin, by annexing it to a publication as insidious
as it is incendiary. Aware of the folly and the danger of a
direct advocacy of the cause of the insurgents, he makes the
impudent attempt to enlist your passions in their favor by false
and virulent railings against those who have heretofore repre-
sented you in Congress. The foreground of the piece presented
you with a bitter invective against that wise, moderate, and
pacific policy, which in all probability will rescue you from the
calamities of a foreign war, with an increase of new dignity and
with additional lustre to the American name and character.
Your representatives are delineated as corrupt, pusillanimous,
and unworthy of your confidence ; because they did not plunge
headlong into measures which might have rendered war inevi-
table ; because they contented themselves with preparing for it,
instead of making it, leaving the path open to the Executive for
one last and solemn effort of negotiation ; because they did not
display either the promptness of gladiators, or the blustering of
bullies, but assumed that firm, yet temperate attitude, which
alone is suited to the representatives of a brave but rational
people ; who deprecated war, though they did not fear it ; and
who have a great and solid interest in peace, which ought only
to be abandoned when it is unequivocally ascertained that the
sacrifice is absolutely due to the vindication of their honor and
the preservation of their essential rights ; because, in fine, your
representatives wished to give an example to the world, that the
boasted moderation of republican governments was not (like the
patriotism of our political barkers) an empty declaration, but a
precious reality.

The sallies of a momentary sensibility, roused and stung by

JEt. 38.] HORATIUS. 169

injury, were excusable. It was not wonderful, that the events of
war were under the first impressions heard from good and pru-
dent men. But to revive them at this late hour, when fact and
reflection unite to condemn them ; to arraign a conduct which
has elevated the national character to the highest point of true
glory ; to hope to embark you in the condemnation of that con-
duct, and to make your indignation against it useful to the cause
of insurrection and treason, are indications of a wrong-headedness,
perverseness, or profligacy, for which it is not easy to find terms
of adequate reprobation.

Happily the plotters of mischief knew ye not. They derive
what they mistake for your image from an original in their own
heated and crooked imaginations, and they hope to mould a
wise, reflecting, and dispassionate people to purposes which pre-
suppose an ignorant, unthinking, and turbulent herd.

But the declamation against your representatives for their
love of peace, is but the preface to the main design. That design
is to alienate you from the support of the laws, by the spectre of
an odious excise system, baneful to liberty, engendered by cor-
ruption, and nurtured by the instrumentality (favored word,
fruitful source of mountebank wit) of the enemies of freedom.

Tully.

HORATIUS.

To the People of the United States.

May, 1795.

Countrymen and Fellow-Citizens :

Nothing can be more false or ridiculous, justly considered,
than the assertion that great sacrifices of your interests are made
in the treaty with Great Britain.

As to the controverted points between the two nations, the
treaty provides satisfactorily for the great and essential ones ;
and only foregoes objects of an inferior and disputable nature, of

170 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

no real consequence to the permanent welfare of the country.
As to trade, the dilemma is this : if an article is added for grant-
ing us such privileges in the British West Indies, as are satis-
factory to us, it will give a duration of twelve years to the
treaty, and will render it as good a one as the most sanguine
could desire, and a better one than any other power of Europe
can make with us ; for no other power in Europe can give us
the advantages in the East Indies, which this treaty confers.

If that article be not added, the commercial part of the treaty
will expire in two years after the present war, by its own
limitation.

It is therefore preposterous to talk of great sacrifices in a
commercial sense. This observation is to be understood with the
exception of the third article ; which regulates the trade between
us and the neighboring British territories, which is permanent,
and which is certainly a precious article ; inevitably throwing
into our lap the greatest part of the fur trade, with the trade of
the two Canadas. This is a full answer to the idle tale of sacri-
fices by the treaty, as the pretext for violating your Constitution,
and for sullying your faith and your honor.

It is an unquestionable truth, fellow-citizens, one which it is
essential you should understand, that the great and cardinal sin
of the treaty in the eyes of its adversaries is, that it puts an end
to controversy with Great Britain.

We have a sect of politicians among us, who, influenced by
a servile and degrading subserviency to the views of France,
have adopted it as a fundamental tenet, that there ought to sub-
sist between us and Great Britain, eternal variance and discord.

What we now see is a part of the same system which led the
ministry of Louis the XVIth to advise our commissioners for
making peace to treat with Great Britain without the acknow-
ledgment of our independence ; wishing that the omission of
this acknowledgment might perpetuate a jealousy and dread of
Great Britain, and occasion a greater necessity for our future
dependence on France.

It is a part of the same system, which, during our war with
Great Britain, produced a resolution of our public councils, with-

JEt. 38.]

HORATIUS. 171

out adequate motive or equivalent, to sacrifice the navigation of
the Mississippi to Spain ; and which also begat a disposition to
abandon our claim to any equal participation in the cod-fisheries.

It is a part of the same disgraceful system which fettered our
commissioners for making peace with the impolitic and humil-
iating instruction to submit all their motions to the direction of
the French Cabinet, and which attempted a censure upon them
for breaking through that system, and in consequence of it
effecting a peace, glorious and advantageous for this country
beyond expectation.

The present rulers of France proclaimed to the world the
insidious and unfriendly policy of the former government to-
wards this country. Their successors may hereafter unmask
equally insidious and unfriendly views in the present rulers.

But if you are as discerning as I believe you to be, you will
not wait for this evidence to form your opinion. You will see in
the conduct of the agents of that government, wherever they
are, that they are machinating against your independence, peace,
and happiness ; — that not content with a fair competition in your
trade, on terms of equal privilege, they are laboring to continue
you at variance with Great Britain, in order that you may be de-
pendent on France.

This conduct in the known agents of a foreign government
is not to be wondered at. It marks the usual and immemorial
policy of all the governments of Europe.

But, that any of your countrymen, that men who have been
honored with your suffrages, should be the supple instruments
of this crooked policy, that they should stoop to nourish and
foster this exotic plant, and should exchange the pure and holy
love of their own country for a meretricious foreign amour — that
they should be willing to sacrifice your interests to their animos-
ity against one foreign nation, and their devotion for another, is
justly matter of surprise and indignation. No terms of reproba-
tion are too severe for so faithless and so unworthy a conduct.

Reason, religion, philosophy, policy, disavow the spurious
and odious doctrine, that we ought to cherish and cultivate en-
mity with any nation whatever.

1^2 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEr. 38.

In reference to a nation with whom we have such extensive
relations of commerce as with Great Britain— to a power so capa-
ble, from her maritime strength, of annoying us— it must be the
offspring of treachery or extreme folly. If you consult your
true interest, your motto cannot fail to be, "Peace and Tkade
with all nations— beyond our present engagements, political
connection with none." You ought to spurn from you, as the
box of Pandora, the fatal heresy of a close alliance, or in the
language of Genet, a true family compact with France. This
would at once make you a mere satellite of France, and entangle
you in all the contests, broils and wars of Europe.

'Tis evident that the controversies of Europe must often grow
out of causes and interests foreign to this country. Why then
should we, by a close political connection with any power of Eu-
rope, expose our peace and interest, as a matter of course, to all
the shocks with which their mad rivalship and wicked ambition
so frequently convulse the earth ? 'Twere insanity to embrace
such a system. The avowed and secret partisans of it merit our
contempt for their folly, or our execration for their depravity.

HORATIUS.

CAMILLUS.

DEFENCE OF MR. JAY'S TREATY.
NO. I.

July 22, 1795.

It was to have been foreseen, that the treaty which Mr. Jay
was charged to negotiate with Great Britain, whenever it should
appear, would have to contend with many perverse dispositions,
and some honest prejudices; that there was no measure in which
the government could engage, so little likely to be viewed according
to its intrinsic merits— so very likely to encounter misconception,
jealousy, and unreasonable dislike. For this, many reasons may
be assigned.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 173

It is only to know the vanity and vindictiveness of human
nature, to be convinced, that while this generation lasts, there
will always exist among us, men irreconcilable to our present
national Constitution ; embittered in their animosity in propor-
tion to the success of its operations, and the disappointment of
their inauspicious predictions. It is a material inference from
this, that such men will watch, with lynx's eyes, for opportunities
of discrediting the proceedings of the government, and will dis-
play a hostile and malignant zeal upon every occasion, where
they think there are any prepossessions of the community to favor
their enterprises. A treaty with Great Britain was too fruitful
an occasion not to call forth all their activity.

It is only to consult the history of nations, to perceive, that
every country, at all times, is cursed by the existence of men,
who, actuated by an irregular ambition, scruple nothing which
they imagine will contribute to their own advancement and im-
portance : in monarchies, supple courtiers ; in republics, fawning
or turbulent demagogues, worshipping still the idol, power, wher-
ever placed, whether in the hands of a prince or of the people, and
trafficking in the weaknesses, vices, frailties, or prejudices of the
one or the other. It was to have been expected, that such men,
counting more on the passions than on the reason of their fellow-
citizens, and anticipating that the treaty would have to struggle
with prejudices, would be disposed to make an alliance with pop-
ular discontent, to nourish it, and to press it into the service of
their particular views.

It was not to have been doubted, that there would be one or
more foreign powers, indisposed to a measure which accommo-
dated our differences with Great Britain, and laid the foundation
of future good understanding, merely because it had that effect.
Nations are never content to confine their rivalships and en-
mities to themselves. It is their usual policy, to disseminate them
as widely as they can, regardless how far it may interfere with
the tranquillity or happiness of the nations which they are able
to influence. — Whatever pretensions may be made, the world is
yet remote from the spectacle of that just and generous policy,
whether in the cabinets of republics or of kings, which would

174 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

dispose one nation, in its intercourses with another — satisfied with
a due proportion of privileges and benefits — to see that other
pursue freely, its true interest with regard to a third ; though at
the expense of no engagement, nor in violation of any rule of
friendly or fair procedure. It was natural, that the contrary
spirit should produce efforts of foreign counteraction to the treaty ;
and it was certain that the partisans of the counteracting power
would second its efforts by all the means which they thought
calculated to answer the end.

It was known, that the resentment produced by our revolu-
tion war with Great Britain, had never been entirely extinguish-
ed, and that recent injuries had rekindled the flame with addi-
tional violence. It was a natural consequence of this, that many
should be disinclined to any amicable arrangement with Great
Britain, and that many others should be prepared to acquiesce
only in a treaty which should present advantages of so striking
and preponderant a kind, as it was not reasonable to expect could
be obtained, unless the United States were in a condition to give
the law to Great Britain, and as, if obtained under the coercion of
such a situation, could only have been the short-lived prelude of
a speedy rupture to get rid of them.

Unfortunately, too, the supposition of that situation has serv-
ed to foster exaggerated expectations ; and the absurd delusion
to this moment prevails, notwithstanding the plain evidence to
the contrary, which is deducible from the high and haughty
ground still maintained by Great Britain against victorious
France.

It was not to be mistaken, that an enthusiasm for France and
her revolution, throughout all its wonderful vicissitudes, has con-
tinued to possess the minds of the great body of the people of
this country ; and it was to be inferred, that this sentiment would
predispose to a jealousy of any agreement or treaty with her
most persevering competitor — a jealousy so excessive, as would
give the fullest scope to insidious arts to perplex and mislead
the public opinion. It was well understood, that a numerous
party among us, though disavowing the design, because the
avowal would defeat it, have been steadily endeavoring to make

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 175

the United States a party in the present European war, by advo-
cating all those measures which would widen the breach between
us and Great Britain, and by resisting all those which would
tend to close it ; and it was morally certain, that this party would
eagerly improve every circumstance which could serve to render
the treaty odious, and to frustrate it, as the most effectual road
to their favorite goal.

It was also known beforehand, that personal and party rival-
ships, of the most active kind, would assail whatever treaty
might be made, to disgrace, if possible, its organ.

There are three persons prominent in the public eye, as the
successor of the actual President of the United States, in the
event of his retreat from the station, Mr. Adams, Mr. Jay, and
Mr. Jefferson.

No one has forgotten the systematic pains which have been
taken to impair the well-earned popularity of the first gentleman.
Mr. Jay, too, has been repeatedly the object of attacks with the
same view. His friends, as well as his enemies, anticipated that
he could make no treaty which would not furnish weapons
against him : and it were to have been ignorant of the indefatiga-
ble malice of his adversaries, to have doubted that they would
be seized with eagerness and wielded with dexterity.

The peculiar circumstances which have attended the two last
elections for governor of this State,* have been of a nature to
give the utmost keenness to party animosity. It was impossible
that Mr. Jay should be forgiven for his double, and, in the last
instance, jriumphant success ; or that any promising opportunity
of detaching from him the public confidence, should pass unim-
proved.

Trivial facts frequently throw light upon important designs.
It is remarkable, that in the toasts given on the 4th of July,
wherever there appears a direct or indirect censure of the treaty,
it is pretty uniformly coupled with compliments to Mr. Jefferson,
and to our late governor, Mr. Clinton, with an evident design to
place those gentlemen in contrast with Mr. Jay, and, decrying

* New- York.

176 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

him, to elevate them. No one can be blind to the finger of party
spirit, visible in these and similar transactions. It indicates to us
clearly, one powerful source of opposition to the treaty.

No man is without his personal enemies. Pre-eminence even
in talents and virtue is a cause of envy and hatred of its possessor.
Bad men are the natural enemies of virtuous men. Good men
sometimes mistake and dislike each other.

Upon such an occasion as the treaty, how could it happen
otherwise, than that personal enmity would be unusually busy,
enterprising, and malignant ?

From the combined operations of these different causes, it
would have been a vain expectation that the treaty would be gen-
erally contemplated with candor and moderation, or that reason
would regulate the first impressions concerning it. It was certain,
on the contrary, that however unexceptionable its true character
might be, it would have to fight its way through a mass of un-
reasonable opposition ; and that time, examination, and reflec-
tion, would be requisite to fix the public opinion on a true basis.
It was certain that it would become the instrument of a systema-
tic effort against the national government and its administration ;
a decided engine of party to advance its own views at the hazard
of the public peace and prosperity.

The events which have already taken place, are a full comment
on these positions. If the good sense of the people does not
speedily discountenance the projects which are on foot, more me-
lancholy proofs may succeed.

Before the treaty was known, attempts were mace to pre-
possess the public mind against it. It was absurdly asserted,
that it was not expected by the people, that Mr. Jay was to make
any treaty ; as if he had been sent, not to accommodate differ-
ences by negotiation and agreement, but to dictate to Great
Britain the terms of an unconditional submission.

Before it was published at large, a sketch, calculated to pro-
duce false impressions, was handed out to the public, through a
medium noted for hostility to the administration of the govern-
ment.— Emissaries flew through the country, spreading alarm and
discontent : the leaders of clubs were every where active to seize

Mi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 177

the passions of the people, and preoccupy their judgments against
the treaty.

At Boston it was published one day, and the next a town-
meeting was convened to condemn it ; without ever being read,
without any serious discussion, sentence was pronounced against it.

Will any man seriously believe, that in so short a time, an
instrument of this nature could have been tolerably understood
by the greater part of those who were thus induced to a con-
demnation of it? Can the result be considered as any thing
more than a sudden ebullition of popular passion, excited by the
artifices of a party, which had adroitly seized a favorable mo-
ment to furorize the public opinion ? This spirit of precipitation
and the intemperance which accompanied it, prevented the body
of the merchants and the greater part of the most considerate
citizens, from attending the meeting, and left those who met
wholly under the guidance of a set of men, who, with two or
three exceptions, have been the uniform opposers of the govern-
ment.

The intelligence of this event had no sooner reached New-
York, than the leaders of the clubs were seen haranguing in
every corner of the city, to stir up our citizens into an imitation
of the example Of the meeting at Boston. An invitation to meet
at the city-hall quickly followed, not to consider or discuss the
merits of the treaty, but to unite with the meeting at Boston to
address the President against its ratification.

This was immediately succeeded by a hand-bill, full of invec-
tives against the treaty, as absurd as they were inflammatory, and
manifestly designed to induce the citizens to surrender their
reason to the empire of their passions.

In vain did a respectable meeting of the merchants endeavor,
by their advice, to moderate the violence of these views, and to
promote a spirit favorable to a fair discussion of the treaty ; in
vain did a respectable majority of the citizens of every descrip-
tion attend for that purpose. The leaders of the clubs resisted
all discussion, and their followers, by their clamors and vocifera-
tions, rendered it impracticable, notwithstanding the wish of a
manifest majority of the citizens, convened upon the occasion.
G 12

178 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [j£t. 38.

Can we believe, that the leaders were really sincere in the
objections they made to a discussion, or that the great and mixed
mass of citizens then assembled, had so thoroughly mastered the
merits of the treaty as that they might not have been enlightened
by such a discussion ?

It cannot be doubted that the real motive to the opposition,
was the fear of a discussion ; the desire of excluding light ; the
adherence to a plan of surprise and deception. Nor need we
desire any fuller proof of the spirit of party which has stimu-
lated the opposition to the treaty, than is to be found in the cir-
cumstances of that opposition.

To every man who is not an enemy to the national govern-
ment, who is not a prejudiced partisan, who is capable of com-
prehe4ding the argument, and dispassionate enough to attend to
it with impartiality, I flatter myself I shall be able to demon-
strate satisfactorily in the course of some succeeding papers —

1. That the treaty adjusts, in a reasonable manner, the points
in controversy between the United States and Great Britain, as
well as those depending on the inexecution of the treaty of peace,
as those growing out of the present European war.

2. That it makes no improper concessions to Great Britain,
no sacrifices on the part of the United States. ;

3. That it secures to the United States equivalents for what
they grant.

4. That it lays upon them no restrictions which are incompa-
tible with their honor or their interest.

5. That in the articles which respect war, it conforms to the
laws of nations.

6. That it violates no treaty with, nor duty towards any
foreign power.

7. That compared with our other commercial treaties, it is,
upon the whole, entitled to a preference.

8. That it contains concessions of advantages by Great
Britain to the United States, which no other nation has obtained
from the same power.

9. That it gives to her no superiority of advantages over
other nations with whom we have treaties.

-Et. 38.] CAMILLUS. 179

10. The interests of primary importance to our general -wel-
fare, are promoted by it.

11. That the too-probable result of a refusal to ratify, is war,
or what would be still worse, a disgraceful passiveness under
violations of our rights, unredressed, and unadjusted: and con-
sequently that it is the true interest of the United States, that
the treaty should go into effect.

It will be understood, that I speak of the treaty as advised
to be ratified by the Senate — for this is the true question before
the public.

Camillus.

no. n.

1795.

Previous to a more particular discussion of the merits of the
treaty, it may be useful to advert to a suggestion which has been
thrown out, namely, That it was foreseen by many, that the mis-
sion to Great Britain would produce no good result, and that the
event has corresponded with the anticipation.

The reverse of this position is manifestly true.

All must remember the very critical posture of this country,
at the time that mission was resolved upon. A recent violation
of our rights, too flagrant and too injurious to be submitted to,
had filled every American breast with indignation, and every
prudent man with alarm and disquietude. A few hoped, and the
body of the community feared, that war was inevitable.

In this crisis, two sets of opinions prevailed, one looked to
measures which were to have a compulsory effect upon Great
Britain, the sequestration of British debts, and the cutting off" in-
tercourse wholly or partially between the two countries: the
other to i preparations for war, and one more effort of nego-

tiation, under the solemnity of an extraordinary mission, to
ave: I

That the latter was the best opinion, no truly sensible man

180 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

can doubt ; and it may be boldly affirmed, that the event has
entirely justified it.

If measures of coercion and reprisal had taken place, war, in
all human probability, would have followed.

National pride is generally a very untractable thiDg. In the
councils of no country does it act with greater force, than in
those of Great Britain. "Whatever it might have been in her
power to yield to negotiation, she could have yielded nothing to
compulsion, without self-degradation, and without the sacrifice
of that political consequence, which, at all times very important
to a nation, was peculiarly so to her at the juncture in question.
It should be remembered, too, that from the relations in which
the two countries have stood to each other, it must have cost
more to the pride of Great Britain to have received the law from
us than from any other poweV.

When one nation hdt cause of complaint against another, the
course marked out by practice, the opinion of writers, and the
principles of humanity, the object being to avoid war, is to pre-
cede reprisals of any kind, by a demand of reparation. To be-
gin with reprisals is to meet on the ground of war, and put the
other party in a condition not to be able to recede without hu-
miliation.

Had this course been pursued by us, it would not only have
rendered war morally certain, but it would have united the Bri-
tish nation in a vigorous support of their government, in the pro-
secution of it : while, on our part, we should have been quickly
distracted and divided. The calamities of war would have
brought the most ardent to their senses, and placed them among
the first in reproaching the government with precipitation, rash-
ness, and folly, for not having taken every chance, by pacific
means, to avoid so great an evil.

The example of Denmark and Sweden is cited in support of
the coercive plan. Those powers, it is asserted, by arming and
acting with vigor, brought Great Britain to terms.

But who is able to tell us the precise course of this transac-
tion, or the terms gained by it? Has it appeared that either
Denmark or Sweden has obtained as much as we have done — a

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 181

stipulation of reparation for tlie violation of our property, con-
trary to the laws of war ?

Besides, what did Denmark and Sweden do ? They armed,
and they negotiated. They did not begin by retaliations and
reprisals. The United States also armed and negotiated, and,
like Denmark and Sweden, prudently forbore reprisals. The
conduct of the three countries agreed in principle, equally steer-
ing clear of a precipitate resort to reprisals, and contradicting
the doctrines and advice of our war party.

The course pursued by our government was then in coinci-
dence with the example of Denmark and Sweden — and, it may be
added, was in every view the wisest.

Few nations can have stronger inducements than the United
States to cultivate peace. Their infant state in general — their
want of a marine in particular, to protect their commerce, would
render war, in an extreme degree, a calamity. It would not
only arrest our present rapid progress to strength and prosperity,
but would probably throw us back into a state of debility and
impoverishment, from which it would require years to emerge.

Our trade, navigation, and mercantile capital, would be es-
sentially destroyed. Spain being an associate of Great Britain,
a general Indian war might be expected to desolate the whole
extent of our frontier — our exports obstructed, agriculture would
of course languish ; all other branches of industry would propor-
tionably suffer ; our public debt, instead of a gradual diminution,
would sustain a great augmentation, and draw with it a large in-
crease of taxes and burthens on the people.

But these evils, however great, were, perhaps, not the worst
to be apprehended. It was to be feared, that the war would be
conducted in a spirit which would render it more than ordina-
rily calamitous. There are too many proofs, that a considerable
party among us is deeply infected with those horrid principles of
jacobinism, which, proceeding from one excess to another, have
made France a theatre of blood, and which, notwithstanding the
most vigorous efforts of the national representation to suppress
it, keeps the destinies of France, to this moment, suspended by a
thread. It was too probable, that the direction of the war, if

182 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

commenced, would have fallen into the hands of men of this de-
scription. The consequence of this, even in imagination, are
such as to make any virtuous man shudder.

It was, therefore, in a peculiar manner, the duty of the gov-
ernment to take all possible chances for avoiding war. The plan
adopted was the only one which could claim this advantage.

To precipitate nothing, to gain time by negotiations, was to
leave the country in a situation to profit by any events which
might turn up, tending to restrain a spirit of hostility to Great
Britain, and to dispose her to reasonable accommodation.

The successes of France, which opportunely occurred, allow-
ing them to have had an influence upon the issue, so far from
disparaging the merit of the plan that was pursued, serve to
illustrate its wisdom. This was one of the chances which pro-
crastination gave, and one which it was natural to take into the
calculation.

Had the reverse been the case, the posture of negotiation was
still preferable to that of retaliation and reprisal; for in this
case, the triumphs of Great Britain, the gauntlet having been
thrown by us, would have stimulated her to take it up without
hesitation.

By taking the ground of negotiation in the attitude of prepa-
ration for war, we at the same time carried the appeal to the
prudence of the British cabinet, without wounding its pride, and
to the justice and interest of the British nation, without exciting
feelings of resentment.

This conduct was calculated to range the public opinion of
that country on our side, to oppose it to the indulgence of hos-
tile views in the cabinet, and, in case of war, to lay the founda-
tion of schism and dissatisfaction.

But one of the most important advantages to be expected
from the course pursued, was the securing of unanimity among
ourselves, if, after all the pains taken to avoid the war, it had
been forced upon us.

As on the one hand, it was certain that dissension and dis-
content would have embarrassed and enfeebled our exertions, in
a war produced by any circumstances of intemperance in our

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 183

public councils, or not endeavored to be prevented by all the
milder expedients usual in similar cases; so, on the other, it
was equally certain, that our having effectually exhausted those
expedients, would cement us in a firm mass, keep us steady and
persevering amidst whatever vicissitudes might happen, and
nerve our efforts to the utmost extent of our resources.

This union among ourselves, and disunion among our ene-
mies, were inestimable effects of the moderate plan, if it had pro-
mised no other advantage.

But to gain time was of vast moment to us in other senses.
Not a sea-port of the United States was fortified, so as to be pro-
tected against the insults of a single frigate. Our magazines
were, in every respect, too scantily supplied. It was highly de-
sirable to obviate these deficiencies before matters came to ex-
tremity.

Moreover, the longer we kept out of war, if obliged to go
into it at last, the shorter would be the duration of the calami-
ties incident to it.

The circumstances of the injury of which we more immedi-
ately complain, afforded an additional reason for preceding re-
prisals by negotiation. The order of the 6th of November, di"
rected neutral vessels to be brought in for adjudication. This was
an equivocal phrase ; and though there was too much cause to
suspect that it was intended to operate as it did, yet there was a
possibility of misconstruction ; and that possibility was a reason,
in the nature of the thing, for giving the English government an
opportunity of explaining before retaliations took place.

To all this it may be added, that one of the substitutes for the
plan pursued, the sequestration of debts, was a measure no less
dishonest than impolitic ; as will be shown in the remarks which
will be applied to the 10th article of the treaty.

But is it unimportant to the real friends of republican govern-
ment, tkat the plan pursued was congenial to the public charac-
ter which is ascribed to it? Would it have been more desirable
that the government of our nation, outstripping the war-maxima
of Europe, should, without a previous demand of reparation, have
rushed into reprisals, and consequently into a war ?

184 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

However this may be, it is a well ascertained fact, that our
country never appeared so august and respectable as in the position
which it assumed upon this occasion. — Europe was struck with
the dignified moderation of our conduct ; and the character of our
government and nation acquired a new elevation.

It cannot escape an attentive observer, that the language,
which, in the first instance, condemned the mission of an envoy
extraordinary to Great Britain, and which now condemns the
treaty negotiated by him, seems to consider the United States as
among the first rate powers of the world in point of strength and
resources, and proposes to them a conduct predicated upon that
condition.

To underrate our just importance, would be a degrading error.
To overrate it, may lead to dangerous mistakes.

A very powerful state may frequently hazard a high and
haughty tone with good policy ; but a weak state can scarcely
ever do it without imprudence. The last is yet our character ;
though we are the embryo of a great empire. It is, therefore, bet-
ter suited to our situation to measure each step with the utmost
caution ; to hazard as little as possible, in the cases in which we
are injured ; to blend moderation with firmness ; and to brandish
the weapons of hostility only when it is apparent that the use of
them is unavoidable.

It is not to be inferred from this, that we are to crouch to any
power on earth, or tamely to suffer our rights to be violated. A
nation which is capable of this meanness, will quickly have no
rights to protect, or honor to defend.

But the true inference is, that we ought not lightly to seek or
provoke a resort to arms ; that, in the differences between us and
other nations, we ought carefully to avoid measures which tend
to widen the breach ; and that we should scrupulously abstain
from whatever may be construed into reprisals, till after the em-
ployment of all amicable means has reduced it to a certainty that
there is no alternative.

If we can avoid a war for ten or twelve years more, we shall
then have acquired a maturity, which will make it no more than
a common calamity, and will authorize us, in our national discus-
sions, to take a higher and more imposing tone.

Mt.38.] camillus. 185

This is a consideration of the greatest weight to determine us
to exert all our prudence and address to keep out of war as long
as it shall be possible ; to defer, to a state of manhood, a struggle
to which infancy is ill adapted. This is the most effectual way
to disappoint the enemies of our welfare ; to pursue a contrary
conduct may be to play into their hands, and to gratify their
wishes. If there be a foreign power which sees with envy or
ill-will our growing prosperity, that power must discern that
our infancy is the time for clipping our wings. We ought to
be wise enough to see, that this is not a time for trying our
strength.

Should we be able to escape the storm which at this juncture
agitates Europe, our disputes with Great Britain terminated, we
may hope to postpone war to a distant period. This, at least, will
greatly diminish the chances of it. For then there will remain
only one power with whom we have any embarrassing discus-
sions. I allude to Spain, and the question of the Mississippi ; and
there is reason to hope, that this question, by the natural progress
of things, and perseverance in an amicable course, will finally be
arranged to our satisfaction without the necessity of the dernier
resort.

The allusion to this case suggests one or two important reflec-
tions. How unwise would it have been to invite or facilitate a
quarrel with Great Britain, at a moment when she and Spain were
engaged in a common cause, both of them having, besides, con-
troverted points with the United States ! How wise will it be to
adjust our differences with the most formidable of these two pow-
ers, and to have only to contest with one of them !

This policy is so obvious, that it requires an extraordinary
degree of infatuation not to be sensible of it, and not to view with
favor any measure which tends to so important a result.

This cursory view of the motives which may be supposed to
have governed our public councils in the mission to Great Britain,
serves not only to vindicate the measures then pursued, but warns
us against a prejudiced judgment of the result, which may, in the
end, defeat the salutary purposes of those measures.

I proceed now to observe summarily, that the objects of the

186 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

mission, contrary to what has been asserted, have been substan-
tially obtained. What were these ? They were principally,

1. To adjust the matters of controversy concerning the inex-
ecution of the treaty of peace, and especially to obtain restitution
of our western posts.

2. To obtain reparation for the captures and spoliations of our
property in the course of the existing war.

Both these objects have been provided for ; and it will be
shown, when we come to comment upon the articles which make
the provisions in each case, that it is a reasonable one, as good a
one as ought to have been expected ; as good a one as there is
any prospect of obtaining hereafter ; one which it is consistent
with our honor to accept, and which our interest bids us to close
with.

The provisions with regard to commerce, were incidental and

auxiliary. The reasons which may be conceived to have led to

the including of the subject in the mission, will be discussed in

some proper place.

Camillus

no. III.

1795.
The opposers of the treaty seem to have put invention on the
rack, to accumulate charges against it, in a great number of cases,
without regard even to plausibility. If we suppose them sincere,
we must often pity their ignorance ; if insincere, we must abhor
the spirit of deception which it betrays. Of the preposterous na-
ture of some of their charges, specimens will be given, in the
coarse of these remarks; though, while nothing, which is col-
orable, will remain unattended to, it were endless to attempt a
distinct refutation of all the wild and absurd things which are
and will be said. It is vain to combat the vagaries of diseased
imaginations. The monsters they engender, are no sooner de-
stroyed, than new legions supply their places. Upon this, as upon

jEt. 38.] CA MILL US. 187

all former occasions, the good sense of the people must be relied
upon ; and it must be taken for granted, that it will be sufficient
for their conviction, to give solid answers to all such objections
as have the semblance of reason ; that now, as heretofore, they
will maintain their character abroad and at home, for deliberation
and reflection, and disappoint those who are in the habit of mak-
ing experiments upon their credulity, who, treating them as chil-
dren, fancy that sugar-plumbs and to}^s will suffice to gain their
confidence and attachment, and to lead them blindfold, whither-
soever it is desired.

In considering the treaty, it presents itself under two princi-
pal heads; the permanent articles, which are the first ten, and
which, with some supplementary provisions, adjust the contro-
verted points between the two countries ; and the temporary ar-
ticles, which are all the remaining ones, and which establish the
principles of mutual intercourse, as to general navigation and
commerce. The manner of the discussion will correspond with
this natural division of the subject.

An objection meets the treaty at the threshold. It is said
that our envoy abandoned the ground which our government had
uniformly held, and with it our rights and interests as a nation,
by acceding, in the preamble of the treaty, to the idea of termi-
nating the differences between the two countries, "in such a man-
ner, as, without reference to the merits of their respective complaints
and pretensions, may be best calculated to produce mutual satisfaction
and good understanding.'''1

It is observed, in support of this, that our government has
constantly charged the first breaches of the treaty upon Great
Britain, in the two particulars of carrying away the negroes, and
detaining the posts ; that while the evacuation of New-York was
going on, a demand of the surrender of the negroes waa made by
Congress, through our commander in chief, which not being com-
plied with, commissioners were sent, to ascertain the number car-
ried away, with a view to a claim of compensation ; that earl}©
and repeated applications were also, made for the surrender of the
Western Posts, which not only was not done, but it is proved by
the circumstances, that orders were not given for it, according to

188 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

the true intent of the treaty, and that there was, from the begin-
ning, a design to infract, and a virtual infraction of the article
with respect to this object. All this, it is alleged, has been the
uniform language of our government, and has been demonstrated
by Mr. Jefferson to be true, in his letter to Mr. Hammond, of the
29th of May, 1792 ; and it is asserted, that the ground ought not
to have been given up by Mr. Jay, because it was the standard of
the mutual rights and duties of the parties, as to the points un-
executed of the treaty of peace.

A proper examination of these matters is therefore called for,
not only by the specific objection which is made to the principle
which is contained in the preamble, but by the influence which
a right solution is calculated to have, in giving a favorable or
unfavorable complexion to the whole plan of the adjustment.

It is true, as suggested, that our government has constantly
charged as breaches of the treaty by Great Britain, the two par-
ticulars which have been stated ; but it is believed to be not
true, that it has uniformly charged them as first breaches of
the treaty. Individuals may have entertained this idea. The
State of Virginia seems to have proceeded upon it in some pub-
lic acts ; but as far as is recollected, that ground was never for-
mally or explicitly taken by the government of the United States
until the above mentioned letter from Mr. Jefferson to Mr. Ham-
mond, when, for the first time, an attempt was made to vindicate
or excuse the whole conduct of this country, in regard to the
treaty of peace, contrary, I will venture to say, to the general
sense of well-informed men.

The most solemn act of our government on this head, is an
address of Congress to the different States, of the 13th of April,
1787.

This address admits contraventions of the treaty on our part ;
and instead of deriving either justification or extenuation of them
from prior infractions by Great Britain, urges the different States
#to a repeal of all contravening laws.

But if the fact, in this respect, were admitted to be, as stated
by the adversaries of the treaty, it would not authorize their
conclusion.

JE.T. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 189

It would not follow, that, because the ground had been taken
by the government, it ought to have been pertinaciously kept,
if, upon fair examination, it had appeared to be not solid, or if
an adherence to it would have obstructed a reasonable adjust-
ment of differences.

Nations, no more than individuals, ought to persist in error,
especially at the sacrifice of their peace and prosperity ; besides,
nothing is more common, in disputes between nations, than each
side to charge the other with being the aggressor or delinquent.
This mutual crimination, either from the nature of circumstances,
or from the illusions of the passions, is sometimes sincere ; at
other times, it is dictated by pride or policy. But in all such
cases, where one party is not powerful enough to dictate to the
other, and where there is a mutual disposition to avoid war ; the
natural retreat for both is in compromise, which waves the ques-
tion of first aggression or delinquency. This is the salvo for
national pride; the escape for mutual error; the bridge by
which nations, arrayed against each other, are enabled to retire
with honor, and without bloodshed, from the field of contest.
In cases of mutual delinquency, the question of the first default
is frequently attended with real difficulty and doubt. One side
has an equal right with the other, to have and maintain its
opinion. What is to be done, when the pride of neither will
yield to the arguments of the other ? War, or a waver of the
point, is the alternative. What sensible man, what humane man,
will deny that a compromise, which secures substantially the
objects of interest, is almost always preferable to war on so
punctilious and unmanageable a point ?

Reject the principle of compromise, and the feuds of nations
must become much more deadly than they have hitherto been.
There would scarcely ever be room for the adjustment of dif-
ferences, without an appeal to the sword ; and, when drawn, it
would seldom be sheathed but with the destruction of one or the
other party. The earth, now too often stained, would then con-
tinually stream with human gore.

From the situation of the thing, and of the parties, there
never could be a rational doubt, that the compromising plan was

190 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

the only one on which the United States and Great Britain could
ever terminate their differences without war ; that the question,
who was the first delinquent, would have "been an eternal bar to
accommodation, and consequently, that a dismission of that ques-
tion was a prerequisite to agreement. Had our envoy permitted
the negotiation to be arrested by obstinacy on this head, he
would have shown himself to be the diplomatic pedant, rather
than the able negotiator, and would have been justly chargeable
with sacrificing to punctilio, the peace of his country. It was
enough for him, as he did, to ascertain by a preliminary dis-
cussion, the impossibility of bringing the other party to concede
the point.

An impartial survey of the real state of the question, will
satisfy candid and discerning men, that it was wise and politic to
dismiss it. This shall be attempted.

It has been observed, that two breaches of the treaty of peace
are charged upon Great Britain ; the carrying away of the
negroes, and the detention of the posts. It remains to investi-
gate the reality of these breaches, and to fix the periods when
they can be said to have happened.

As to the negroes, the true sense of the article in the treaty
of peace, which respects them, is disputed.

The words of the stipulation are (Art. 7) that " his Britannic
Majesty shall, with all convenient speed, and without causing any
destruction or carrying away any negroes or other property of the
American inhabitants, withdraw all his armies, garrisons, and
fleets, from the United States."

These terms admit of two constructions ; one, that no negroes,
or other articles which had been American property, should be
carried away ; the other, that the evacuations were to be made,
without depredation ; consequently, that no new destruction was
to be committed, and that negroes, or other articles, which, at the
time of the cessation of hostilities, continued to be the property of
American inhabitants, unexchanged by the operations of war,
should be forborne to be carried away.

The first was the construction which was adopted by this
country ; and the last is that insisted upon by Great Britain.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 191

The arguments which support her construction, are these ;

I. The established laws of war give to an enemy the use and
enjoyment, during the war, of all real property, of which he ob-
tains possession, and the absolute ownership of all 'personal pro-
terty which falls into his hands. The latter is called booty ; and,
except ships, becomes vested in the captors the moment they
acquire a firm possession. With regard to ships, it seems to be
a general rule of the marine law, that condemnation is necessary
to complete investment of the property in the captor.

II. Negroes, by the laws of the States, in which slavery is
allowed, are personal property. They, therefore, on the prin-
ciple of those laws, like horses, cattle, and other movables, were
liable to become booty — and belonged to the enemy, as soon as
they came into his hands. Belonging to him, he was free either
to apply them to his own use, or set them at liberty. If
he did the latter, the grant was irrevocable, restitution was im-
possible. Nothing in the laws of nations or in those of Great
Britain, will authorize the resumption of liberty, once granted to
a human being.

III. The negroes in question were either taken in the course
of military operations, or they joined the British army upon
invitation by proclamation. However dishonorable to Great
Britain the latter may have been, as an illiberal species of war-
fare, there is no ground to say that the strict rules of war did not
warrant it ; or that the effect was not, in the one case, as well as
in the other, a change of property in the thing.

IV. The stipula#on relates to " negroes or other property of
the American inhabitants ;" putting negroes on the same footing
with any other article. The characteristic of the subject of the
stipulation being property of American inhabitants, whatever had
lost that character could not be the object of the stipulation.
But the negroes in question, by the laws of war, had lost that
character ; they were therefore not within the stipulation.

Why did not the United States demand the surrender of
captured vessels, and of all other movables, which had fallen
into the hands of the enemy ? The answer is, because common
sense would have revolted against such a construction. No one

192 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [IEt. 38.

could believe, that an indefinite surrender of all the spoils or
booty of a seven years' war was ever intended to be stipulated ;
and yet the demand for a horse, or an ox, or a piece of furniture,
would have been as completely within the terms " negroes and
other property," as a negro ; consequently, the reasoning which
proves that one is not included, excludes the other.

The silence of the United States as to every other article,
is therefore a virtual abandonment of that sense of the stipulation
which requires the surrender of negroes.

V. In the interpretation of treaties, things odious or immoral
are not to be presumed. The abandonment of negroes, who
had been induced to quit their masters on the faith of official
proclamation, promising them liberty, to fall again under the
yoke of their masters, and into slavery, is as odious and immoral
a thing as can be conceived. It is odious, not only as it imposes
an act of perfidy on one of the contracting parties ; but as it
tends to bring back to servitude, men once made free. The
general interests of humanity conspire with the obligation which
Great Britain had contracted towards the negroes, to repel this
construction of the treaty, if another can be found.

VI. But another, and a less exceptionable construction is
found in considering the clause as inserted, for greater caution,
to secure evacuations without depredation. It may be answered,
that this was superfluous, because hostilities having ceased, the
stipulation to surrender implied of itself, that it was to be done
without depredation. But, to this the reply is, that a part of the
clause manifestly contemplates the case of itew depreciations, and
provides a guard against it, in the promise, that the evacuations
shall be made without causing any destruction. To cause destruc-
tion is to do some new act of violence. This reflection destroys
the argument drawn from the superfluousness of the stipulation
in the sense here given to it, and by showing that it must have
such a sense in one part, authorizes the conclusion, that the re-
mainder of the clause has a similar sense. The connection of the
two things, in parts of one sentence, confirms this inference.

These arguments certainly have great weight, and do not ad-
mit of easy refutation. It is a fact, too, that the opinions of some

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 193

of the ablest lawyers of our own country, have, from the begin-
ning, corresponded with the construction they enforce.

It is not enough for us to be persuaded, that some of the ne-
gociators, who made the peace, intended the article in our sense.
It is necessary that it should be found in the instrument itself,
and, from the nature of it, ought to have been expressed with
clearness and without ambiguity. If there be real ambiguity in
such a case, the odiousness of the effect will incline the scale
against us.

It does not remove the difficulty, to say, that compensation
for the negroes might have been a substitute for the thing. When
one party promises a specific thing to another, nothing but the
thing itself will satisfy the promise. The party to whom it is
made cannot be required to accept in lieu of it an equivalent.
It follows, that compensation for the negroes would not have
been a performance of the stipulation to forbear to carry them
away ; and therefore, if there be any thing odious in the specific
thing itself, the objection to the interpretation which requires it,
is not done away by the idea of substituting compensation. For
the article does not admit such substitution, and its sense cannot
be defined by what it does admit.

Some color to our sense of the article results from these ex-
pressions in the same clause, "leaving in all fortifications, the
American artillery that may be therein." But this expression is
not of equivalent force to that of property of American inhabitants.
For example, suppose an American ship to have been captured
and condemned, it might still be said of her, in a certain sense,
this is an " American ship," alluding to the country of which
she had been the ship ; but it could not be said in any sense of
her, this ship is American property, or the property of American
inhabitants. The country of which a thing was, may often be
used with aptness as a term of description of that thing, though
it may have changed owners ; but the term property, which is
synonymous with ownership, can never be used in the present
tense as descriptive of an ownership, which has ceased. More-
over, if the expressions in the two cases had been (as they are
not) of equivalent force, it would not follow that they were to
a 13

194 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

have the same meaning in both, cases, being applied to different
matters. For an odious consequence in one instance, would be
a reason for rejecting a particular sense of a word or phrase,
which would be proper in another, to which no such consequence
was attached.

Let me now ask this question of any candid man. Is our
construction of the article respecting the negroes, so much better
supported than that of Great Britain, as to justify our pronoun-
cing with positiveness, that the carrying them away was a breach
of the treaty ?

To me it appears clear, that this must be considered, speak-
ing favorably for us, as a very doubtful point, and that we can-
not with confidence, predicate a breach of the treaty by Great
Britain upon this event. If it was one, it happened in May,
1783.

The affair of the western posts is now to be examined ; that
the detention of them, after the proper point of time for deliver-
ing them up, was a breach of the treaty, will not bear a dispute.
But what that proper time was, is a serious question between the
two parties.

Our government .has contended, that the posts ought to have
been surrendered with all convenient speed, after the provisional
treaty took effect ; and Mr. Jefferson, who is much cited on the
present occasion, has shown, by an ingenious and elaborate de-
duction of circumstances, that this was not only not done, but
never intended.

But Mr. Jefferson has not even discussed the question, whether
the provisional or the definitive treaty was the act from which the
obligation to perform was to date. This is an important omis-
sion ; for Great Britain affirms the definite treaty to be the cri-
terion.

As an original question, much might be said on both sides.
The natural relation of the terms provisioned or preliminary and
definitive, seems to exhibit the former as inchoate and imperfect,
and to refer to the latter the conclusive obligatory force and legal
perfection. There is room, therefore, to say, that all but the mere
cessation of hostilities, or for the execution of which there is no

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 195

precise point of time fixed in the preliminary articles, is referred
to in the definitive treaty.

On the other hand, it may be argued, that a preliminary
treaty is as much a national treaty as a definitive one, both being
made by an equal and the competent authority ; and that there
is no good reason why those things which are sufficiently regu-
lated by the preliminary, should not go into immediate and com-
plete effect, equally as if regulated by the definitive treaty ; or
why the latter should be considered as any thing more than an
instrument for adjusting points which may have been left open
by the preliminary articles, and for giving more perfect form.
Accordingly, there are examples of preliminary treaties going
into mutual and full execution, though never followed by de-
finitive treaties.

But, however this question may have stood on principle, the
conduct of our government in the particular case has settled it
against us, and has completely sanctioned the doctrine of Great
Britain.

If performance was to date from the provisional articles, this
applies as well to us as to Great Britain. It was incumbent upon
Congress to have notified the treaty, with the proper solemnities,
to the different states and their citizens ; to have made the re-
commendations stipulated by the fifth article ; and to have en-
joined the observance of all those things which we promised on
our part. The nature of some of these stipulations rendered it
particularly urgent that no time should be lost. But all was de-
ferred till the ratification in this country of the definitive treaty.
The 15th of January, 1784, is the date of the act which attempts
to carry the treaty into effect on our part. This then is a practi-
cal settlement by ourselves of the principle, that performance
was to date from the definitive treaty.

It is no objection to the position, that our sea-ports were pre-
viously evacuated ; that was matter of mutual convenience ; and
though done, does not change the state of strict obligation between
the parties. Even in the view of liberal and conciliating proce-
dure, the prompt surrender of our sea-ports are, for obvious rea-
sons, very different things.

196 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 38.

But our dilemma is this, if the delay of orders for evacuating
the western posts, previous to the ratification of the definitive
treaty, was, on the part of Great Britain, a breach of treaty, our
delay to act upon the points stipulated by us till after that ratifi-
cation, must have been equally a breach of treaty ; and it must
have been at least cotemporary with any breach that could have
been committed by Great Britain.

We are compelled then by our own example to agree with
Great Britain, that she was not obliged to surrender the western
posts till after the mutual ratification of the definitive treaty, and
to abandon the superstructure, however soothing to our wishes,
which has been reared upon a different foundation. If so, we
must look to the period of the exchange of the ratification in
Europe for the date of the orders for evacuating. I have not in
my possession materials for fixing with accuracy that period; but
considering the time of the ratification here, and the time of its
probable arrival in England, we are carried to the latter end of
April, or beginning of May, 1784 ; so that it is not till about
May, 1784, that we can charge upon Great Britain a delinquency
as to the surrender of the posts.

Having now examined the nature of the infractions of the
treaty of peace charged upon Great Britain with reference to
dates, I shall, in the next number of this defence, trace some in-
stances of infraction on our part with a like reference. The con-
clusions to be drawn from this comparison, if I mistake not, will
greatly disconcert some articles of the prevailing creed on this
head, and go far towards confirming what was preliminarily
offered to evince the prudence of our envoy in relinquishing the
favorite ground.

Cahillus.

no. IV.

1795.

An accurate enumeration of the breaches of the treaty of
peace on our part, would require a tedious research. It will suf-

At. 38.] CAMILLUS. 107

flee to select and quote a few of the most prominent and early in-
stances.

One of the earliest is to be found in an act of this state, for
granting a more effectual relief in cases of certain trespasses,
passed the 17th of March, 1783. This act takes away from any
person (subjects of Great Britain, of every description included)
who had, during the war, occupied, injured, destroyed or received
property, real or personal, of any inhabitant without the British
lines, the benefit of the plea of a military order; consequently
the justification which the laws and usages of war give, and the
immunity resulting from the reciprocal amnesty, which, ex-
pressly or virtually, is an essential part of every treaty of peace.
To this it may be added that it was considered by Great Britain as
a direct infraction of the 6th article of her treaty with us, which
exempts all persons from prosecution "by reason of the part
they might have taken in the war."

Mr. Jefferson, not controverting the point that the provisions
of this act were contrary to the treaty, endeavors to get rid of
the inference from it, by alleging three things. 1st. That it passed
antecedently to the treaty, and so could not be a violation of an
act of subsequent date. 2d. That the treaty was paramount to
the laws of the particular states, and operated a repeal of them.
3d. That the exceptionable principle of this act was never sanc-
tioned by the courts of justice, and in one instance (the case of
Rutgers and Waddington in the mayor's court) was overruled.

As to the first point, it is sufficient to answer, that the law
continued to operate, in fact, from the time of the treaty till the
4th of April, 1787, when there was a repeal of the exceptionable
clause, by an act of our legislature. During the period of four
years, many suits were brought and many recoveries had ; ex-
tending even to persons who had been in the military service of
Great Britain.

To the second point, these observations may be opposed.

The articles of the confederation did not, like our present con-
stitution, declare that treaties were supreme laws of the land. The
United States, under that system, had no courts of their own, to
expound and enforce their treaties as laws. All was to depend

19S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

upon the comparative authority of laws and treaties, in the judg-
ment of the state courts.

The question, whether treaties were paramount to, and a vir-
tual repeal of antecedent laws, was a question of theory, about
which there was room for, and in this country did exist much di-
versity of opinion. It is notorious, that it has been strenuously
maintained that however a national treaty ought, in good faith,
to be conclusive on a state, to induce a repeal of laws contrary
to it ; yet its actual laws could not be controverted by treaty,
without an actual repeal by its own authority. This doctrine has
been emphatically that of the party distinguished by its opposi-
tion to national principles.

And it is observable, that Congress, not relying entirely upon
the force of the treaty, to abrogate contravening laws, in their
address already cited, urge the states to a repeal of those laws. It
is likewise observable in respect to the very act under considera-
tion, that the legislature of the state, in April, 1787, thought a
positive repeal of the exceptionable clause necessary.

The complaints of a power, whose treaty with us was, in fact,
violated by the operation of a state law, could never be satisfac-
torily answered by referring to a theoretic abstract, disputed propo-
sition. Such a power might reply with irresistible force: "It is
not for us to concern ourselves about the structure and meaning
of your political constitutions, or the force of legal maxims de-
ducible from the forms and distributions of power which you
have adopted for your government. It is the act in which alone
we are interested — you have stipulated this and that to us — your
stipulation in practice is contravened. It is your duty to see that
there are no impediments from conflicting authorities within
yourselves, to an exact fulfilment of your promises. If you suf-
fer any such impediment to exist, you are answerable for the con-
sequences."

As to the third point, it is to be observed, that though there
may have been no express formal decision of our courts, enfor-
cing the exceptionable principle of the trespass act ; yet there
never was a decision of a supreme court against it ; and it may
not be amiss to remark incidentally, that the decision of the may-

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 199

or's court, from which Mr. Jefferson is glad to derive an exculpa-
tion of our conduct, was the subject of a severe animadversion at
a popular meeting in this city, as a judiciary encroachment on the
legislative authority of the state. The truth on this point is, that
according to the opinion of our bar, a defence under a military
order was desperate, and it was believed that a majority of our
supreme court bench would overrule the plea. Hence, in nume-
rous cases where it might have been used, it was waived ; and the
endeavor on behalf of the defendants, was either to effect on col-
lateral grounds, a mitigation of damages, or to accomplish the
best compromises that could be obtained ; even the suit of Eutgers
and Waddington, after a partial success in the mayor's court, was
terminated by a compromise, according to the advice of the de-
fendant's council, owing to the apprehension of an unfavorable
issue in the supreme court ; and this, notwithstanding the defend-
ant was a British subject.

Under these circumstances, which are faithfully represented,
is it possible to doubt, that the act in question operated a breach
of our treaty with Great Britain ? and this from the commence-
ment of its existence? can we reasonably expect, that nations
with whom we have treaties, will allow us to substitute theoretic
problems to performances of our engagements, and will be willing
to accept them as apologies for actual violations ?

It is pertinent to remark, that the British commander in chief
very early remonstrated against this act ; but the remonstrance
produced no effect.

Another act of the state of New- York may be cited as a vio-
lation of the treaty on our part, which must have been nearly
cotemporary with that of the detention of the posts. Its date is
the 12th of May, 1781 ; this act confirms, in express terms, all
confiscations before made, notwithstanding errors in the proceed-
ings, and takes away the writ of error upon any judgment pre-
viously rendered.

This was, in substance, a new confiscation ; judgments which
from error were invalid, were nullities. To take away the writ
of error, by which their nullity might be established, was to give
them an efficacy which they did not before possess ; and, as to

200 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

the operation, cannot be distinguished from the rendering of new
judgments. To make voidable acts of confiscation valid and con-
clusive, is equivalent to new acts of confiscation. A fair execu-
tion of the treaty, required, that every thing in this respect
should be left where it was, and forbade the remedying of defects,
in former proceedings, as much as the restitution of new judg-
nier."-.

Another, and an unequivocal breach of the treaty, is found in
an act of South Carolina, of March 26, 1784. This act suspends
the recovery of British debts for nine months, and then aliows
them to be recovered only in four yearly installments, contrary
to the express stipulation of the IVth. article, "that creditors on
either side, sha.ll meet with no lawful impediments to the recovery of
the fall value in sterling money, of all bona fide debts theretofore con-
trac

It is idle to attempt to excuse infractions of this kind, by the
pleas of distress and inability. This is to make the convenience
of one party the measure of its obligation to perform its promises
to another. If there was really an impossibility of payment, as
has been pretended, there was no need of legislative obstruction ;
the thing would have regulated itself; and the very interest of
the creditor was a pledge, that no general evil could have resulted
from allowing a free course to the laws. If such impediments
could be justified, what impediments might not be justified?
"\Vhat would become of the article, the only one in the treaty, to
be performed by us, of real consequence to Great-Britain ?

This infraction by South Carolina, was prior to that of the de-
tention of the posts, by Great Britain.

But the case of Virginia is still stronger than that of South
Carolina. There is evidence which cannot be disputed, that her
courts, in defiance of the treaty, have constantly remained shut
to the recovery of British debts, in virtue of laws passed during
the war.

An act of her general assembly of the 22d June, 178-4, after
suggesting as breaches of the treaty by Great Britain, the carry-
ing off of the negroes, and the detention of theposts, after instruct-
ing her delegates in Congress to request a remonstrance to the

^x. 38.] CAMILLUS. 201

British court, complaining of those infractions, and desiring re-
paration, and after declaring that the national honor and interest
of the citizens of that commonwealth obliged the assembly to
withhold their co-operation in the complete fulfilment of the said treaty,
until the success of the aforementioned remonstrance is known,
or Congress shall signify their sentiments touching the premises,
concludes with the following resolution :

" That so soon as reparation is made for the foregoing infrac-
tion, or Congress shall judge it indisputably necessary, such acts
and parts of acts passed during the late war, as inhibit the
of British debts, ought to be repealed, and payment thereof made in
such time and manner as shall consist with the exh .ation of

the commonvsealth."'

The plain language of this resolution is, that there were acts
passed during the war, which then actually inhibited the recovery
of British debts ; and that for the removal of this inhibition, a
repealing act by the authority of Virginia was necessary.

However unfounded this position might have been in theory,
here is conclusive evidence that the fact in Virginia was conform-
able to it ; that her courts had been, ever since :he peace, then;
were, and until a repealing law was passed, were likely to con-
tinue to be shut against the recovery of British detts. When testi-
mony of this kind was urged by the British minister, was it pos-
sible for our envoy to make any solid reply? Who could be
supposed to know better than the legislature of Virginia, the real
state of the fact ? When that legislature declared it to be as has
been stated, who, or what could contradict it ? With what truth
has it been asserted, that "it was at all times perfectly understood11
that treaties controlled the laws of the states ?

Additional proof of the contrary is found in the subsequent
conduct of Virginia. On the 12th of December, 17S7, the state
passed an act repealing all such acts or parts of acts of the state,
as had prevented, or might prevent the recovery of debts due to
British subjects, according to the true intent of the treaty ; but
with this proviso, that there should be a suspension of the repeal,
'till the governor, by. advice of council had, by proclamation, no-
tified that Great Britain had delivered up the posts, and was tak-

202 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

ing measures for the further fulfilment of the treaty by delivering
up the negroes, or by making compensation for them. This de-
notes clearly, that in the opinion of the legislature of Virginia,
there were acts of that state which had prevented and might prevent
the recovery of debts according to the treaty.

It is observable, too, that the resolutions of June, 1784, do
not even give the expectation of a complete repeal of the imped-
ing laws, in the event of reparation of the breaches of treaty by
Great Britain. They only promise such a modification of them
as would permit the payment in such time and manner as shoidd
consist with the exhausted situation of the commonwealth ; that is, not
according to the true intent of the treaty, but according to the
opinion of the legislature of Virginia of the abilities of the com-
monwealth.

As the infraction which these proceedings of Virginia admit,
resulted from acts passed during the war, it of course was coeval
with the first existence of the treaty of peace, and seems to pre-
'dude the possibility of any prior breach by Great Britain. It
has been at least demonstrated, that the detention of the posts
was not such prior breach ; as there was no obligation to surren-
der 'till after the exchange of the ratifications of the definitive
4reaty in England.

I pass by the serious contraventions of the treaty in this im-
portant article of the debts, which are of a later date, because
they do not affect the question of the first breach, though they
are of great weight to demonstrate the obligation of the United
States to make compensation.

The argument then, upon the whole, as to the question of the
first breach, stands thus — It is a great doubt whether the carrying
away of the negroes was at all a breach. If it was one, the trespass
act of this state preceded it in date, and went into operation the
very moment it was possible to issue process. The detention of
the posts is subsequent to breaches of the article concerning their
recovery of debts on our part. This, in the case of South Caro-
lina, is determined by the date of her act (March 26, 1784) which
is before the exchange of the ratifications of the definitive treaty
could have taken place. In that of Virginia, it results from her

^T. 38.] CAMILLUS. 203

own testimony, that impediments to the recovery of British debts,
created by acts passed during the war, continued from the first
moment of the peace until after the year 1787. Or if, contrary
to our own interpretation, we are disposed to adhere to the pro-
visional treaty, as the act from which performance was to date, we
are guilty of a breach in not acting ourselves upon that treaty :
a breach, which being cotemporary with the existence of the
treaty, seems not to admit of any prior contravention. From all
which it follows, that take what ground we will, we must be per-
plexed to fix the charge of the first breach of the treaty upon
Great Britain.

Let the appeal be to the understandings and hearts of candid
men — men who have force of mind sufficient to rescue themselves
from the trammels of prejudice, and who dare to look even un-
palatable truths in the face. Let such men pronounce, whether
they are still satisfied that Great Britain is clearly chargeable with
the first breaches of the treaty ? Whether they are not, on the
contrary, convinced that the question is one so mixed and doubt-
ful, as to render a waiver of it, even on the score of intrinsic mer-
it, expedient on our part? and especially whether they can en-
tertain a particle. of doubt, that it was wiser to waive it than to
suffer it to prove a final obstacle to the adjustment of a contro-
versy on which the peace of their country was suspended ? This
was undoubtedly the alternative to our envoy. In the choice he
made, the ultimate opinion of our enlightened country cannot fail
to applaud his prudence.

Camillus.

1795.
The discussion in the two last numbers has shown, if I mis-
take not, that this country by no means stands upon such good
ground, with regard to the inexecution of the treaty of peace, as
some of our official proceedings have advanced, and as many

204 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

among us have too lightly credited. The task of displaying this
truth has been an unwelcome one. As long as a contrary doc-
trine was either a mere essay of polemical skill, or a convenient
ingredient of negotiation, it was natural for those who thought
differently of it, to prefer silence to contradiction ; but when it
is made the engine of great errors, of national conduct, of exces-
sive pretensions, which forbid a reasonable accommodation, of na-
tional difference, and endangers rupture and war, on grounds
which reason disapproves and prudence condemns, it becomes an
indispensable duty to expose its hollowness and fallacy. — Eeserve
then would be a crime. The true patriot, who never fears to sac-
rifice popularity to what he believes to be the cause of public
good, cannot hesitate to endeavor to unmask the error, though
with the certainty of incurring the displeasure and censure of the
prejudiced and unthinking.

The disposition to infract the treaty, which, in several parti-
culars, discovered itself among us, almost as soon as it was
known to have been made, was, from its first appearance, a
source of humiliation, regret, and apprehension to those who
could dispassionately estimate the consequences, and who felt a
proper concern for the honor and character of the country.
They perceived that besides loss of reputation, it must sooner or
later lead to very serious embarrassments. They have been
hitherto mistaken in no part of their anticipations ; and if their
faithful warning voice, now raised to check the progress of error,
is as little listened to as when it was raised to prevent the com-
mencement of it, there is too much cause to fear, that the expe-
perience of extensive evils may extort regrets which the fore-
sight of an enlightened people ought to avert.

Citizens of United America ! as you value your present en-
viable lot, rally round your own good sense ! Expel from your
confidence, men who have never ceased to misadvise you !
Discard intemperate and illiberal passions ! Aspire to the glory
of the greatest triumph which a people can gain, a triumph over
prejudice! Be just, be prudent! Listen impartially to the una-
dulterated language of truth ! And, above all, guard your peace
with anxious vigilance against all the artful snares which are

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 205

laid for it ! Accompany me with minds open to conviction, in a
discussion of unspeakable importance to your welfare !

Weigh, well, as preliminary to further investigation, this
momentous proposition. "Peace, in the particular situation
of this independent country, is an object of such great and
primary magnitude, that it ought not to be relinquished, unless
the relinquishment be clearly necessary to preserve our honor
in some unequivocal point, or to avoid the sacrifice of some
right or interest of material and permanent importance."
This is the touchstone of every question which can come before
us, respecting our foreign concerns.

As a general proposition, scarcely any will dispute it ; but
in the application of the rule, there is much confusion of ideas ;
much false feeling, and falser reasoning. The ravings of anger
and pride are mistaken for the suggestions of honor. Thus are
we told in a delirium of rage, by a gentleman of South Carolina,
that our envoy should have demanded an unconditional relinquish-
ment of the western posts as a right ; till which was granted, and
until Lord Grenville had given orders to Lord Dorchester to that
effect, open to be sent to our President, to be by him forwarded, he
should not have opened his lips about the treaty. It was prostrating
the dearest rights of freemen, and laying them prostrate at the feet of
royalty.

In a case of incontestible, mutual infractions of a treaty, one
of the parties is to demand, peremptorily of the other, an uncon-
ditional performance upon his part, by way of preliminary, and
without negotiation. An envoy sent to avert war, carrying with
him the clearest indications of a general solicitude of his country,
that peace might be preserved, was, at the very first step of his
progress, to render hostility inevitable, by exacting, not only
what could not have been complied with, but what must have
been rejected with indignation. The government of Great Bri-
tain must have been the most abject on earth, in a case so
situated, to have listened for a moment to such a demand. And
because our envoy did not pursue this frantic course ; did not
hold the language of an imperious Bashaw to his trembling
slave, he is absurdly stigmatised as having prostrated the rights

206 HAMILTON'S WORKS. (>Et. 38.

of freemen, at the foot of royalty. What are we to think of the
state of mind which could produce so extravagant a sally?
would a prudent people have been willing to have entrusted a
negotiation which involved their peace to the author of it ? Will
they be willing to take him as their guide in a critical emergency
of their affairs ?*

True honor is a rational thing. It is as distinguishable from
Quixotism, as true courage from the spirit of bravo. It is
possible for one nation to commit so undisguised and unqualified
an outrage upon another, as to render a negociation of the ques-
tion dishonorable. But this seldom, if ever happens. In most
cases, it is consistent with honor to precede rupture by negocia-
tion, and whenever it is, reason and humanity demand it.
Honor cannot be wounded by consulting moderation. As a
general rule, it is not till after it has become manifest, that rea-
sonable reparation for a clear premeditated wrong cannot be
obtained by an amicable adjustment, that honor demands a resort
to arms. In all the questions between us and Great Britain, honor
permitted the moderate course ; in those which regard the in-
execution of the treaty of peace, there had undoubtedly been
mutual faults. It was, therefore, a case for negotiation and
mutual reparation. True honor, which can never be separated
from justice, even requires reparation from us to Great Britain,
as well as from her to us. The injuries we complain of in the
present war, were also of a negotiable kind. The first was bot-
tomed on a controverted point in the laws of nations. The
second left open the question, whether the principal injury was
a designed act of the government or a misconstruction of its
courts. To have taken, therefore, the imperious ground which
is recommended, in place of that which was taken — would have
been not to follow the admonitions of honor, but to have sub-
mitted to the impulse of passion and phrensy.

So likewise, when it is asserted that war is preferable to the

* No man in the habit of thinking well either of Mr. Rutledge's head or heart,
but must have felt, at reading the passages of his speech which hare been pub-
lished, pain, surprise, and mortification. I regret the occasion, and the necessity
of animadversion.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 207

sacrifice of our rights and interests, this, to be true, to be rational
must be understood of such rights and interests as are certain
as are important, such as regard the honor, security, or prosperity
of our country. It is not a right disputable, or of small conse-
quence, it is not an interest temporary, partial and incon-
siderable, which will justify, in our situation, an appeal to arms.

Nations ought to calculate as well as individuals ; to com-
pare evils ; and to prefer the lesser to the greater ; to act other-
wise, is to act unreasonably ; those who counsel it, are impostors
or madmen.

These reflections are of a nature to lead to a right judgment
of the conduct of our envoy in the plan of adjustment to which
he has given his assent.

Three objects, as has appeared, were to be aimed at, on be-
half of the United States. 1st. Compensation for negroes carried
away. 2d. Surrender of the Western Posts. 3d. Compensation
for spoliation during the existing war.

Two of these objects, and these in every view the most im-
portant, have been provided for ; how fully will be examined
hereafter. One of them has been given up (to wit) compensation
for the negroes.

It has been shown, as I trust, to the conviction of dispassion-
ate men, that the claim of compensation for the negroes, is, in
point of right, a very doubtful one ; in point of interest, it cer-
tainly falls under the description of partial and inconsiderable ;
affecting in no respect, the honor or security of the nation, and
incapable of having a sensible influence upon its prosperity. The
pecuniary value of the object is, in a national scale, trifling.

Not having before me the proper documents, I can only
speak from memory. But I do not fear to be materially mis-
taken in stating that the whole number carried away, so ascer-
tained as to have afforded evidence for a claim of compensation,
was short of 3,000 persons, of whom about 1,300 were of sixteen
years and upwards, men, women, and children. Computing
these at an average of 150 dollars per head, which is a competent
price, the amount would be 450,000 dollars, and not two or three
millions, as has been pretended.

208 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JKi. 38.

It is a fact, which I assert on the best authority, that our en-
voy made every effort in his power to establish our construction
of the article relating to this subject, and to obtain compensation ;
and that he did not relinquish it, till he became convinced, that
to insist upon it would defeat the purpose of his mission, and
leave the controversy between the two countries unsettled.

Finding, at the same time, that the two other points in dis-
pute could be reasonably adjusted, is there any one who will be
rash enough to affirm, that he ought to have broken off the nego-
ciation on account of the difficulty about the negroes ? Yes !
there are men, who are thus inconsiderate and intemperate ! But
will a sober, reflecting people ratify their sentence ?

What would such a people have said to our envoy, had he
returned with this absurd tale in his mouth: "Countrymen! I
could have obtained the surrender of your posts, and an adequate
provision for the reparation of your losses by unjust captures — I
could have terminated your controversy with Great Britain, and
secured the continuance of your peace, but for one obstacle, a re-
fusal to compensate for the negroes carried away ; on this point
the British government maintained a construction of the treaty
different from ours, and adhered to it with innexibilit}^. I con-
fess, that there appeared to be much doubt concerning the true
construction ; I confess, also, that the object was of inconsider-
able value. Yet it made a part of our claims, and I thought the
hazards of war preferable to a renunciation of it."

What would his adversaries have replied to hirn on such an
occasion? No ridicule would have been too strong, no reproach
too bitter. Their triumph would have been complete : for he
would have been deservedly left without advocate, without
apologist.

It cannot admit of a serious doubt, that the affair of the ne-
groes, was too questionable in point of right, too insignificant in
point of interest, to have been suffered to be an impediment to
the immense objects which were to be promoted by an accommo-
dation of differences acceptable in other respects. There was no
general principle of national right or policy to be renounced. No
consideration of honor forbid the renunciation, every calculation

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 209

of interest invited to it. The evils of war for one month would
outweigh the advantage, if at the end of it there was a certainty
of attainment.

But was war the alternative ? Yes, war or disgrace.

The United States and Great Britain had been brought to
issue. The recent spoliations on our commerce, superadded to
the evils of a protracted Indian war, connected with the deten-
tion of the western posts, and accompanied with indications of a
design to contract our boundaries, obstructing the course of our
settlements and the enjoyment of private rights, and producing
serious and growing discontent in our western country, rendered
it indispensable, that there should be a settlement of old differ-
ences, and a reparation of new wrongs ; or, that the sword should
vindicate our rights.

This was certainly, and with reason, the general sense of our
country, when our envoy left it. There are many indications
that it was the opinion of our government ; and it is to be in-
ferred, that our envoy understood the alternative to be as has
been stated.

Indeed what else could be contemplated ? After the depre-
dations which had been committed upon our commerce, after the
strong sensibility which had been discovered upon the occasion
in and out of our public councils, after an envoy extraordinary
had been sent to terminate differences and obtain reparation ; if
nothing had resulted, was there any choice but reprisals ? Should
we not have rendered ourselves ridiculous and contemptible in
the eyes of the whole world, by forbearing them ?

It is curious to observe the inconsistency of certain men.
They reprobate the treaty as incompatible with our honor, and
yet they affect to believe an abortion of the negotiation would
not have led to war. If they are sincere, they must think that
national honor consists in perpetually railing, complaining, blus-
tering, and submitting. For my part, much as I deprecate war,
I entertain no doubt that it would have been our duty to meet it
with decision, had negotiation failed ; that a due regard to our
honor, our rights and our interests would have enjoined it upon
us. Nor would a pusillanimous passiveness have saved us from

G 14

210 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 38.

it. So unsettled a state of things would have led to fresh inju-
ries and aggravations ; and circumstances, too powerful to be re-
sisted, would have dragged us into war. We should have lost
our honor without preserving our peace. Nations in similar
situations have no option but to accommodate differences, or to
fight. Those which have strong motives to avoid war, should,
by their moderation, facilitate the accommodation of differences.
This is a rule of good sense, a maxim of sound policy.

But the misfortune is, that men will oppose imagination to
fact. Though we see Great Britain predominant on the ocean ;
though we observe her pertinaciously resisting the idea of paci-
fication with France, amidst the greatest discouragements; though
we have employed a man whose sagacity and integrity have been
hitherto undisputed, and of a character far from flexible, to as-
certain what was practicable ; though circumstances favored his
exertions ; though much time and pains were bestowed upon the
subject ; though there is not only his testimony, but the testimony
of other men who were immediately on the scene, and in whom
there is every reason to confide, that all was attained which was
attainable : yet we still permit ourselves to imagine, that more
and better could have been done, and that by taking even now a
high and menacing tone, Great Britain may be brought to our
feet.

Even a style of politeness in our envoy has been construed to
his disadvantage. Because he did not mistake strut for dignity,
and rudeness for spirit ; because he did not, by petulance and
asperity, enlist the pride of the British court against the success
of his mission, he is represented as having humiliated himself
and his nation. It is forgotten that mildness in the manner, and
firmness in the thing, are most compatible with true dignity, and
almost always go further than harshness and stateliness.

Suppositions that more could be done by displaying, what is
called, greater spirit, are not warranted by facts. It would be
extremely imprudent on that basis, to trust ourselves to a further
experiment — to the immense vicissitudes in the affairs of Europe,
which from moment to moment may essentially vary the relative
situations of the contending parties. If there ever was a state

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 211

of things which demanded extraordinary circumspection, and
forbade a spirit of adventure, it is that of the United States
at the existing juncture, viewed in connection with the present
very singular and incalculable posture of Europe.

But it is asked, to avoid Scylla, may we not run upon Cha-
rybdis ? — If the treaty should preserve our peace with Britain,
may it not interrupt it with France ? — I answer, that to me there
appears no room for apprehension. It will be shown in the
course of the discussion, that the treaty interferes in no particular
with our engagements to France, and will make no alteration whatever
in the state of things between us and her, except as to the selling
prizes in our ports, which, not being required by treaty, was ori-
ginally permitted merely because there was no law to forbid it,
and which being confined to France, was of very questionable
propriety on the principles of neutrality, and has been a source
of dissatisfaction to the other belligerent powers. This being the
case, no cause of umbrage is given to France by the treaty, and
it is as contrary to her interest as to inclination, wantonly to seek a
quarrel with us. Prostrate indeed were our situation, if we
could not, without offending France, make a treaty with another
power, which merely tended to extinguish controversy, and to
regulate the rules of commercial intercourse, and this not only
without violating any duty to France, but without giving any
preference to another. It is astonishing that those who affect so
much nicety about national honor, do not feel the extreme humi-
liation of such an idea. As to the denomination of alliance with
Great Britain which has been given to the treaty, it is an insult
to the understandings of the people, to call it by such a name.
There is not a tittle of it which warrants the appellation.

Camillus.

212 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 38.

NO. VI.

1795.

There is one more objection to the treaty for what it does not
do, which requires to be noticed. This is an omission to provide
against the impressment of our seamen.

It is certain that our trade has suffered embarrassments in this
respect, and that there have been abuses which have operated
very oppressively upon our seamen ; and all will join in the wish
that they could have been guarded against in future by the treaty.

But it is easier to desire this, than to see how it could have
been done. A general stipulation against the impressment of
our seamen would have been nugatory, if not derogatory. Our
right to an exemption is perfect by the laws of nations, and a
contrary right is not even pretended by Great Britain. The
difficulty has been, and is, to fix a rule of evidence, by which to
discriminate our seamen from theirs, and by the discrimination
to give ours protection, without covering theirs in our service.
It happens that the two nations speak the same language, and in
every exterior circumstance closely resemble each other ; that
many of the natives of Great Britain and Ireland are among our
citizens, and that others, without being properly our citizens, are
employed in our vessels.

Every body knows that the safety of Great Britain depends
upon her marine. This was never more emphatically the case,
than in the war in which she is now engaged. Her very exist-
ence as an independent power, seems to rest on a maritime supe-
riority.

In this situation, can we be surprised that there are difficul-
ties in bringing her to consent to any arrangement which would
enable us, by receiving her seamen into our employment, to
detain them from her service? Unfortunately, there can be
devised no method of protecting our seamen which does not
involve that danger to her. Language and appearance, instead
of being a guide, as between other nations, are between us and
Great Britain, sources of mistake and deception. The most fa-

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 213

miliar experience in the ordinary affairs of society, proves, that
the oaths of parties interested cannot be fully relied upon. Cer-
tificates of citizenship, by officers of one party, would be too
open to the possibility of collusion and imposition, to expect that
the other would admit them to be conclusive. If inconclusive,
there must be a discretion to the other party which would de-
stroy their efficacy.

In whatever light they may be viewed, there will be found
an intrinsic difficulty in devising a rule of evidence, safe for both
parties, and consequently, in establishing one by treaty. No
nation would readily admit a rule which would make it depend
on the good faith of another, and the integrity of its agents,
whether her seamen, in time of war, might be drawn from her
service, and transferred to that of a neutral power. Such a rule
between Great Britain and us, would be peculiarly dangerous,
on account of circumstances, and would facilitate a transfer of
seamen from one party to another. Great Britain has accordingly
perseveringly declined any definite arrangement on the subject;
notwithstanding earnest and reiterated efforts of our government.

When we consider candidly the peculiar difficulties which
various circumstances of similitude, between the people of the
two countries, oppose to a satisfactory arrangement, and that to
the belligerent party, it is a question of national safety, to the
neutral party a question of commercial convenience and indivi-
dual security, we shall be the less disposed to think the want of
such a provision as our wishes would dictate, a blemish in the
treaty.

The truth seems to be, that from the nature of the thing, it
is matter of necessity to leave it to occasional and temporary
expedients — to the effects of special interpositions from time to
time, to procure the correction of abuses ; and if the abuse be-
comes intolerable, to the ultima ratio; the good faith of the
parties, and the motives which they have to respect the rights of
each other, and to avoid causes of offence, and vigilance in noting
and remonstrating against the irregularities which are committed,
are probably the only peaceable sureties of which the case is sus-
ceptible.

214 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Our minister plenipotentiary, Mr. Pinckney, it is well known,
has long had this matter in charge, and has strenuously exerted
himself to have it placed upon some acceptable footing ; but his
endeavors have been unsuccessful, further than to mitigate the
evil by some additional checks, and by drawing the attention of
the British government to the observance of more caution. A
more sensible effect of our representations has been lately expe-
rienced ; and with attention and vigilance, that effect may be
continued, and perhaps increased. But there is reason to fear
that it would constantly be found impracticable to establish an
efficacious conventional guard.

I proceed now to the examination of the several articles in
the treaty, in the order in which they stand.

The first contains merely a general declaration that there
shall be peace and friendship between the contracting parties,
the countries and people of each, without exceptions of persons
or places.

One would have imagined that this article, at least, would
have escaped a formal objection ; however it might have been
secretly viewed as the most sinful of all, by those who pant after
war and enmity between the two countries. Nothing but the
fact could have led to a surmise that it was possible for it to have
been deemed exceptionable ; and nothing can better display the
rage for objection, which actuates the adversaries of the treaty,
than their having invented one against so innocent a provision.

But the committee appointed by a meeting at Charleston,
(South Carolina) have sagaciously discovered, that this article
permits " the unconditional return to our country of all persons-
who were proscribed during the late war."

With all but men determined to be dissatisfied, it would be
a sufficient answer to such an objection to say, that this article
is a formula in almost every treaty on record, and that the con-
sequence attributed to it was never before dreamt of, though
other nations besides ourselves have had their proscriptions and
their banishments.

But this is not all — our treaty of peace with Great Britain
in 1783, has an equivalent stipulation in these words (article 6) ;

Mx. 38.] CAMILLUS. 215

" there shall be a firm and perpetual peace between his Britan-
nic Majesty and the said States, and between the subjects of the
one, and the citizens of the other." In calling this an equiva-
lent stipulation, I speak with reference to the objection which
is made. The argument to support that objection would be to
this effect : " Exiles and criminals are regarded as within the
peace of a country ; but the people of each are, by this article,
placed within the peace of the other ; therefore proscribed per-
sons are restored to the peace of the United States, and so lose
the character of exiles and criminals." Hence the argument will
turn upon the word " peace" — the word " friendship" will have
no influence upon the question. In other respects there is no
difference, in substance, between the two articles. For the terms
"people," " subjects," " citizens," as used in the two treaties, are
synonymous. If, therefore, the last treaty stipulates that there
shall be peace between the governments, countries, and people
of the two nations, the first stipulates what is equivalent, that
there shall be peace between the two governments, and the sub-
jects and citizens of each. The additional words, without excep-
tion of persons and places, can make no difference, being merely
surplusage. If A says to B, "I will give you all the money in
this purse," the gift is as complete as if he had said, " I give you
all the money in this purse, without exception of a single dol-
lar."

But the object of the stipulation, and the subject of the ob-
jection, have no relation to each other. National stipulations are
to be considered in the sense of the laws of nations. Peace, in
the sense of those laws, defines a state which is opposite to war.
Peace, in the sense of the municipal laws, defines a state Avhich
is opposite to that of criminality. They are, consequently, differ-
ent things ; and a subject of Great Britain, by committing a crime,
may put himself out of the peace of our government, in the sense
of our municipal laws, while there might be a perfect peace with
him, in the sense of the laws of nations, and vice versa, there
might be war with him, in the sense of the laws of nations, and
peace in that of the municipal laws.

The punishment of a subject of Great Britain as a felon,

216 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iET. 38.

would certainly not constitute a state of war between the parties,
nor interfere with the peace which is stipulated by this article ;
though it is declared that it shall be inviolable, and might as well
be affirmed to prevent the punishment of future, as of former
criminals.

But who, in the contemplation of the laws of the respective
states, are the proscribed persons ? They must have been under-
stood to have been subjects or citizens of the states which pro-
scribed them — consequently cannot be presumed to be compre-
hended in an article which stipulates peace between the nations
and their respective citizens.

This is not a stipulation of peace between a nation and its
own citizens; nor can the idea of expatriation be admitted to go
so far as to destroy the relation of citizen, as regards amenability
for a crime. To this purpose, at least, the offender must remain a
citizen.

There can hardly have been a time when a treaty was formed
between two nations, when one or the other had not exiled crim-
inals or fugitives from justice, which it would have been unwil-
ling to reinstate. Yet this was never deemed an obstacle to the
article, nor has an immunity from punishment ever been claimed
tinder it, nor is there the least ground to assert that it might be
claimed under it.

It follows that the objection which has been taken to this ar-
ticle is wholly without foundation. It is humiliating to the human
understanding, or disreputable to the human heart, that similar
objections should come from sensible men ; it is disgustful to
have to refute them. The regard I feel for some of those who
have brought it forward, makes it a painful task. How great is
the triumph of passion over the judgment, on this occasion.

Camillus.

Mi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 217

NO. VII.

1795.

The second article of the treaty stipulates, that his Britannic
majesty will withdraw all his troops and garrisons from all posts
and places within the boundary lines assigned by the treaty of
peace to the United States ; and that this evacuation shall take
place on or before the first day of June, 1796 ; the United States
in the mean time, at their discretion, extending their settlements
to any part within the said boundary lines, except within the pre-
cincts or jurisdictions of any of the said posts — that all settlers
and traders within the precincts or jurisdiction of the said posts,
shall continue to enjoy, unmolested, all their property of every
kind, and shall be protected therein ; that they shall be at liberty
to remain there, or to remove with all or any part of their effects ;
also to sell their lands, houses, or effects, or to retain the pro-
perty thereof at their discretion ; that such of them as shall con-
tinue to reside within the said boundary lines shall not be com-
pelled to become citizens of the United States, but shall be at
liberty to do so, if they think proper, making and declaring their
election within a year after the evacuation ; and that those who
should continue after the expiration of a year, without having
declared their intention of remaining subjects of his Britannic
majesty, shall be considered as having elected to become citizens
of the United States.

This article, which accomplishes a primary object of our
envoy's mission, and one of primary importance to the United
States, has been as much clamored against as if it had made a
formal cession of the posts to Great Britain. On this point an
uncommon degree of art has been exerted, and with no small
success. The value of the principal thing obtained has been put
out of sight by a misrepresentation of incidental circumstances.

But the fact is, nevertheless, that an object has been accom-
plished, of vast consequence to our country. The most impor-
tant desiderata in our concerns with foreign powers are, the pos-
session of the western posts, and a participation in the naviga-
tion of the river Mississippi. More or fewer of commercial

218 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

privileges are of vastly inferior moment. The force of circum-
stances will do all we can reasonably wish in this respect ; and,
in a short time, without any steps that may convulse our trade
or endanger our tranquillity, will carry us to our goal.

The recovery of the western posts will have many important
consequences. It will extinguish a source of controversy with
Great Britain, which, at a period not distant, must have inevita-
bly involved the two countries in a war, and the thing was
becoming every day, more and more urgent. It will enable us
effectually to control the hostilities of the northern and western
Indians, and in so doing will have a material influence on the
southern tribes. It will therefore tend to rescue the country
from what is at present its greatest scourge, Indian wars. When
we consider that these wars have, four years past, taken an extra
million annually from our revenue, we cannot be insensible of
the importance of terminating that source of expense. This
million turned to the redemption of our debt, would contribute
to complete its extinguishment in about twenty years.* The
benefits of tranquillity to our frontier, exempting its inhabitants
from the complicated horrors of savage warfare, speak too loudly
to our humanity, as well as to our policy, to need a commentary.

The advantages of the recovery of the posts do not stop
here ; an extension of trade is to be added to the catalogue.
This, however, need only be mentioned at this time, as it will
come again into view in considering the third article.

But two consequences, not commonly adverted to, require
particular notice in this place.

There is just ground of suspicion, corroborated by various
concurring circumstances, that Great Britain has entertained the
project of contracting our boundaries to the Ohio. This has ap-
peared in Canada — at the British garrisons — at the Indian towns
— at Philadelphia, and at London. The surrender of the posts
for ever cuts up by the roots, this pernicious project. The whole
of our western interests are immediately and deeply concerned
in the question.

* This is a rough calculation, but it cannot materially err.

Ml. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 219

The harmonious and permanent connection of our western
with our Atlantic country, materially depends on our possession
of the western posts. Already has great discontent been engen-
dered in that country by their detention. That discontent was
increasing and rankling daily. It was actually one of the ali-
ments of the insurrection in the western parts of Pennsylvania.
While the posts remained in the hands of Great Britain, danger-
ous tamperings with the inhabitants of that country were to be
apprehended — a community of views between Great Britain and
Spain might have taken place, and by force and sedition, events
formidable to our general union might have been hazarded.
The disposition or prevention of that community of views, is a
point of the greatest moment in our system of national policy.
It presses us to terminate differences, and extinguish misunder-
standings with Great Britain ; — it urges us to improve the favora-
ble moment, and stamps with the charge of madness, the efforts
to let go the hold which the treaty, if mutually ratified, would
give us.

Whoever will cast his eye upon the map of the United States,
will survey the position of the western posts, their relations to
our western waters, and their general bearings upon our western
country ; and is at the same time capable of making the reflec-
tions, which an accurate view of the subject suggests, will dis-
cover multiplied confirmations of the position, that the possession
of those posts by us, has an intimate connection with the preser-
vation of union between our western and Atlantic territories ;
and whoever can appreciate the immense mischiefs of a disunion,
will feel the prodigious value of the acquisition. To such a
man, the question may be confidently put : Is there any thing in
the treaty conceded by us to Great Britain, to be placed in com-
petition with this single acquisition? The answer could not fail
to be in the negative.

But it is said by way of objection, that admitting the posts
will be surrendered at the time stipulated, it is no acquisition by
this treaty : it is only the enjoyment of a right which was secured
by the treaty of peace.

With as much good sense might it be said, that the stipula-

220 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

tion of reparation for the spoliation of our property, or even im-
mediate actual reparation, if it had been obtained, was nothing
gained ; because the laws of nations gave us a right to such re-
paration ; and it might in this way be proved to have been im-
possible for our envoy to have effected any thing useful or meri-
torious.

Let us see what is the real state of the case. Great Britain
had engaged by the treaty of peace, to surrender the western
posts loith all convenient speed; but without fixing a precise time.
For the cause, or on the pretext of our not having complied
with the treaty on our part, especially in not removing the im-
pediments which the antecedent laws of particular States opposed
to the recovery of British debts, she delayed, and afterwards
refused to make the surrender ; and when our envoy left this
country, there was too much appearance of an intention on her
part, to detain them indefinitely, and this after having actually
kept them ten years. The treaty of peace was consequently in
this particular suspended, if not superseded. It was either to be
reinstated by a new agreement, or enforced by arms. The first
our envoy has effected ; he has brought Great Britain to aban-
don the dispute, and to fix a precise, determinate time when, at
furthest, the posts are to be delivered up. It is therefore to this
new agreement, that we shall owe the enjoyment of them, and it
is, of course, entitled to the merit of having obtained them ; it is
a positive ingredient in its value, which cannot be taken from it ;
and it may be added, that this is the first time that the merit of
procuring, by negotiation, restitution of a right withheld, was ever
denied to the instrument which procured it.

But the picture given of the situation of Great Britain, to
warrant the inferences which are drawn, is exaggerated and
false. It cannot be denied that she is triumphant on the ocean ;
that the acquisitions which she has made upon France, are
hitherto greater than those which France has made upon her.
If, on the one hand, she owes an immense debt, on the other
she possesses an immense credit, which there is no symptom of
being impaired. British credit has become, in a British mind,
an article of faith, and is no longer an article of reason. How

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 221

long it may last, how far it may go, is incalculable. But it is
evident, that it still affords prodigious resources, and that it is
likely, for some time to come, to continue to afford them. In
addition to this, it is a well ascertained fact, that her government
possesses internally, as much vigor, and has as much national
support, as it perhaps ever had at any former period of her
history. Alarmed by the unfortunate excesses in France, most
men of property cling to the government, and carry with them
the great bulk of the nation, almost the whole of the farming
interest, and much the greatest proportion of other industrious
classes. Her manufactures, though probably wounded by the
war, are still in a comparatively flourishing condition. They
suffice not only for her own supply, but for the full extent of
foreign demand, and the markets for them have not been mate-
rially contracted by the war. Her foreign commerce continues
to be immense; as a specimen of it, it may be mentioned, that
the ships from India this year, announced to have been seen
upon or near the British coast, amounted to 35 in number, com-
puted to be worth between four and five millions sterling. It is
no light circumstance in the estimate of her resources, that a
vast preponderancy in that quarter of the globe continues to
nourish her wealth and power.

If from a view of Great Britain, singly, we pass to a view of
her in her foreign connections, we shall find no cause to con-
sider her as a prostrate nation. Among her allies, are the two
greatest powers of Europe (France excepted), namely, Russia and
Austria, or the emperor : Spain and Sardinia continue to make
a common cause with her. There is no power of Europe which
has displayed a more uniform character of perseverance than
Austria ; for which she has very strong motives on the present
occasion. Russia, too, is remarkable for her steadiness to her
purpose, whatever it may be. It is true, that heretofore she has
not discovered much zeal in the coalition, but there are symptoms
of her becoming more closely and cordially engaged. If she
does, she is a great weight in the scale.

Against this will be set the astonishing victories, heroic ex-
ploits, and vast armies of France, her rapid conquests to the

222 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Rhine, tlie total reduction of Holland, the progress of her arms
in Spain and Italy, the detaching of the king of Prussia from
the coalition, and the prospect of detaching some others of the
German princes ; and it will be added, that the continental ene-
mies of France appear exhausted, despairing, and unable to con-
tinue the war.

This, if offered only to show that there is no probability that
the enemies of France can succeed in the original object of the
war against her, or can divest her of her acquisitions on the con-
tinent, has all the force that may be desired to be given to it ;
but when it is used to prove that the situation of Great Britain
is so desperate and humbled as to oblige her to receive from
France, or the United States, any conditions which either of them
may think fit to impose, the argument is carried infinitely too
far. It is one thing for a country to be in a posture not to receive
the law from others, and a very different thing for her to be in a
situation which obliges others to receive the law from her, and
what is still stronger, from all her friends. France evidently
cannot annoy Russia — she cannot, without great difficulty, from
their geographical position, make any further acquisitions upon
the territories of Austria. Britain and her possessions are essen-
tially safe, while she maintains a decided maritime superiority.
As long as this is the case, even supposing her abandoned by all
her allies, she never can be in the situation which is pretended
by the opposers of the treaty.

But in describing the. situation of France, only one side of the
medal is presented. There is another side far less flattering, and
which, in order to come to a just conclusion, must be impartially
viewed.

If the allies of Great Britain are fatigued and exhausted,
France cannot be in a better condition. The efforts of the latter,
in proportion to intrinsic resources, have, no doubt, been much
greater than those of the former. It is a consequence from this,
physically certain, that France must be still more fatigued and
exhausted, even than her adversaries. Her acquisitions cannot
materially vary this conclusion: the low countries, long the
theatre of the war, must have been pretty well emptied before

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 223

they fell into her hands. Holland is an artificial power ; her life
and strength were in her credit ; this perished with her reduction.
Accordingly the succors extracted from her, compared with the
scale of the war, have been insignificant.

But it is conjectured, that as much has not been done as
might have been done ; that restitution of the posts has not been
procured, but only a promise to restore them at a remote period,
in exchange for a former promise, which had been violated.
That there is no good ground of reliance upon the fulfilment of
this new promise, for the performance of which there ought to
have been some surety or guarantee. That the restitution of the
posts ought to have been accompanied with indemnification for
the detention, and for the expenses of the Indian wars which
have been occasioned by that detention, and by the instigation of
British intrigue. That it was better to go to war than relinquish
our claim to such indemnification ; or if our present circum-
stances did not recommend this, it was better to wait till it was
more convenient to us to enforce our claims, than to give them
up. These are the declamations by which this part of the treaty
is arraigned. Let us see if they are the random effusions of en-
thusiasm, or the rational dictates of sound policy.

As to the suggestion, that more might have been done than
was done, it must of necessity be mere conjecture and imagina"
tion. If the picture given of the situation of Great Britain, was
better justified by facts than it is, it would not follow that the
suggestion is true ; for the thing would depend not on the real
situation of the country, but on the opinion entertained of it by
its own administration, on the personal character of the prince
and of his council ; on the degree in which they were influenced
by pride and passion, or by reason. The hypothesis, that the
dispositions of a government are conformable with its situation,
is as fallacious a one as can be entertained. It is to suppose, con-
trary to every day's experience, that cabinets are always wise.
It is, on the part of those who draw the inference, to suppose,
that a cabinet, the most violent, rash, and foolish, of Europe, is
at the same time moderate and prudent enough to act according
to the true situation of the country. Who of our enthusiasts,

224 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

reasoning from his view of the abased condition of Great Britain,
has not long since imagined that she ought to be on her knees to
France, suing for mercy and forgiveness? Yet how different
hitherto is the fact ! If we carefully peruse the speeches of the
leading members of the convention, we shall observe the menaces
against Britain frequently interspersed with invitations to peace ;
while the British government maintains a proud and distant
reserve, repels every idea of peace, and inflexibly pursues the
path of war. If the situation of Europe in general, and of Great
Britain in particular, as is pretended, authorized us to expect
whatever we chose, how happens it that France, with all her vic-
tories, has not yet been able to extort peace ?

As to the true position of France, we are not left to mere in-
ference. All the official reports, all the private accounts from
thence acknowledge a state of extreme embarrassment and dis-
tress ; an alarming derangement of the finances, and a scarcity
not distant from famine. To this are to be added, a continuance
of violent and destructive conflicts of parties, and the unextin-
guishable embers of insurrection.

This fair comparison of the relative situation of the contending
parties, will, I know, be stigmatized as blazoning the strength
and resources of Great Britain, and depreciating the advantages
of France. But the cant phrases of party cannot alter the nature
of truth — nor will they prevent the people of the United States
from listening impartially to it, or from discerning that it is a
mark of fidelity to their interests, to counteract misrepresentation,
by placing facts fairly before them, and a duty which they owe
to themselves, and which they cannot omit to perform without
betraying their own interests, to receive them candidly, and weigh
them maturely.

The conclusion is, that all those highly-charged declamations
which describe Great Britain to us as vanquished and humbled ;
as ready to pass under the yoke at command, and to submit to
any conditions which we may think fit to prescribe, are either
the chimeras of over-heated imaginations, or the fabrications of
impostors ; and if listened to, can have no other effect than to
inspire a delusive presumption, and a dangerous temerity.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 225

But to judge the better of the extravagance of these decla-
mations, it will be useful to go back to the periods when the
negotiation began and ended. Our envoy arrived in England,
and entered upon the business of his mission, at the moment
when there was a general elation on account of the naval victory
gained by Lord Howe, and previous to those important successes
which have terminated in the conquest of Holland ; and the
treaty was concluded by the 19th of November last, prior to the
last mentioned event, and the defection of the king of Prussia.
The posture of things at the time it was in negotiation, and not
at this time, is the standard by which to try its merits ; and it
may be observed, that it is probable the negotiation received its
first impression, and even its general outline, anterior to the
principal part of the disasters sustained by the coalesced powers
in the course of the last campaign.

It may not be improper to add, that if we credit the repre-
sentations of our envoy, Great Britain manifested similar dispo-
sitions with regard to the treaty at the commencement as at the
close of the negotiation : whence it will follow, that too much
has been attributed in this country to the victories of France.

The subject of the second article will be resumed and con-
cluded in the next number.

Camillus.

NO. VIII.

1795.

One of the particulars, in which our envoy is alleged to
have fallen short of what might or ought to have been done,
respects the time for the surrender of the western posts. It is
alleged, that there ought either to have been an immediate sur-
render, or some guarantee or surety for the performance of the
i^ew promise. Both parts of the alternative presuppose that
Great Britain was to have no will upon the subject ; that no
circumstances of security or convenience to her were to be con-
g 15

226 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 38.

suited ; that our envoy was not to negotiate, but to command.
How unsubstantial the foundation on which this course of pro-
ceeding is recommended, has been already developed.

The fact was, that our envoy pressed an early evacuation of
the posts ; but there was an inflexible adherence, on the other
side, to the term limited in the treaty. The reasons understood
to have been assigned for it, were to this effect, viz. That
according to the course of the Indian trade, it was customary to
spread through the nations, goods to a large amount, the returns
for which could not be drawn into Canada, in a shorter period
than was proposed to be fixed for the evacuation ; that the im-
pression which the surrender of all the posts to American gar-
risons might make on the minds of the Indians, could not be
foreseen ; that there was the greatest reason for caution, as, on a
former occasion, it had been intimated to them by public agents
of the United States, that they had been forsaken and given up by
the British government ; that the protection promised on our
part, however sincere, and however competent in other respects,
might not be sufficient in the first instance to prevent the em-
barrassment which might ensue ; that for these reasons the
traders ought to have time to conclude their adventures, which
were predicated upon the existing state of things ; that they
would in future calculate upon the new state of things; but
that, in the mean time, the care of government ought not to be
withdrawn from them.

There is ground to believe, that there were representations
on behalf of the Canada traders, alleging a longer term than
that which was adopted in the treaty, to be necessary to wind
up and adapt their arrangements to the new state of things ;
and that the term suggested by them was abridged several months.
And it may not be useless to observe, as explanatory to the
reasons given, that in fact it is the course of the trade to give
long credits to the Indians, and that the returns for goods fur-
nished in one year, only come in the next year.

What was to be done in this case ? Was the negotiation to
break off, or was the delay to be admitted ? The last was pre-
ferred by our envoy ; and the preference was rightly judged.

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 227

The consequence of breaking off the negotiation has been
stated. No reasonable man will doubt, that delay was pre-
ferable to war, if there be good ground of reliance, that the sti-
pulation will be fulfilled at the appointed time. Let us calmly
examine this point.

The argument against it, is drawn from the breach of the
former promise. To be authorized to press this argument, we
ought to be sure that all was right on our part. After what has
been offered on this subject, are we still convinced that this was
the case ? Are we able to say, that there was nothing in our
conduct which furnished a ground for that of Great Britain ?
Has it not been shown to be a fact, that, from the arrival of the
provisional articles in this country, till after the ratification
thereof, by the definitive treaty, acts of States interdicting the
recovery of British debts, and other acts militating against the
treaty, continued in operation ? Can we doubt, that subjects of
Great Britain, affected by these acts, carried complaints to the
ears of their government ? Can we wonder, if they made serious
impressions there, if they produced dissatisfaction and distrust?
Is it very extraordinary, if they excited the idea of detaining the
posts as a pledge, till there were better indications on our part?
Is it surprising, if the continuance of these acts, and the addition
of others, which were new and positive breaches of the treaty,
prolonged the detention of the posts ?

In fine, was the delay in surrendering so entirely destitute of
cause, so unequivocal a proof of a perfidious character, as to
justify the conclusion, that no future dependence can be made on
the promises of the British government ? Discerning men will
not hastily subscribe to this conclusion.

Mutual charges of breach of faith are not uncommon between
nations : yet this does not prevent their making new stipulations
with each other, and relying upon their performance. The argu-
ment from the breach of one promise, if real, to the breach of
every other, is not supported by experience ; and if adopted as a
general rule, would multiply, infinitely, the impediments to
accord and agreement among nations.

The truth is, that though nations will too often evade their

228 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

promises on colorable pretexts, yet few are so profligate as to do
it without such pretexts. In clear cases, self-interest dictates a
regard to the obligations of good faith : nor is there any thing
in the history of Great Britain which warrants the opinion, that
she is more unmindful than other nations, of her character for
good faith.

Yet she must be so, and in an extreme degree, if she be
capable of breaking, without real cause, a second promise on the
same point, after the termination, by a new treaty, of an old dis-
pute concerning it, and this too on the basis of mutual reparation.
It would indicate a destitution of principle, a contempt of cha-
racter, much beyond the usual measure, and to an extent which
it may be affirmed is entirely improbable.

It is a circumstance of some moment in the question, that
the second promise is free from the vagueness of the first, as
to the time of execution. It is not to be performed ivith all
convenient speed, but by a day certain, which cannot be exceeded.
This would give point to violation, and render it unequivocal.

Another argument, against the probability of performance,
has been deduced from the supposed deficiency of good reasons
for the delay, which is represented as evidence of want of sin-
cerity in the promise.

Besides the reasons, which were assigned for that delay, there
are others that may be conjectured to have operated, which it
would not have been equally convenient to avow ; but which
serve to explain the delay different from the supposition of its
having been calculated for ultimate evasion. If, as we have with
too much cause suspected, Great Britain, or her representatives
in Canada, whether with or without orders, had really counte-
nanced the hostilities of the western Indians, it was to be ex-
pected, that she should think it incumbent upon her, to give
them sufficient time to make peace, before an evacuation of the
posts should put them entirely in our power. She might, other-
wise, have provoked them to hostilities against her own settle-
ments, and have kindled in their minds inextinguishable resent-
ments. It was not certain how soon a peace should be brought
about ; and it might be supposed, that the disposition to it on

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 229

our part might be weakened or strengthened by the proximity
or remoteness of the period of the surrender. Moreover, some
considerable time might be requisite to prepare those establish-
ments for the security of Canada, which the relinquishment of
the posts on our side would be deemed to render necessary.

The latter motive is one not justly objectionable : the former
implies an embarrassment, resulting from a culpable policy,
which was entitled to no indulgence from us, but which, never-
theless, must have had a pretty imperious influence on the con-
duct of the other party, and must have created an obstacle to a
speedy surrender, not easy to be surmounted. Taken together,
we find in the reasons assigned, and in those which may be pre-
sumed to have operated, a solution of the pertinacity of Great
Britain on the subject of time, without impeaching, on that
account, the sincerity of the promise to surrender.

But we have very strong holds, for the performance of this
promise, upon the interest of Great Britain : 1st. The interest
which every nation has, in not entirely forfeiting its reputation
for honor and fidelity. 2d. The interest which results from the
correlative stipulation with regard to the indemnification for the
British debts, a point upon which there will be no inconsiderable
mercantile sensibility. 3d. The interest of preserving peace with
this country, the interruption of which, after all that has passed,
could not fail to attend the non-surrender of the posts at the stip-
ulated time.

It is morally certain, that circumstances will every day add
strength to this last motive. Time has already done much for us,
and will do more. Every hour's continuance of the war in Eu-
rope, must necessarily add to the inconveniences of a rupture with
this country, and to the motives which Great Britain must feel,
to avoid an increase of the number of her enemies, to desire peace,
and, if obtained, to preserve it.

The enemies of the treaty, upon their own calculations, can
hardly dispute, that if the war continues another year after the
present, the probable situation of Great Britain will be a com-
plete security for her compliance with her promise to surrender
the posts. But let us suppose that a general peace takes place

230 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

in Europe this winter, what may then be the disposition of Great
Britain in June next, as to war or peace with this country ?

I answer, that the situation will be, of all others, that which
is most likely to indispose her to a war with us. There is no
juncture, at which war is more unwelcome to a nation, than im-
mediately after the experience of another war, which has required
great exertions, and has been expensive, bloody, and calamitous.
The minds of all men then dread the renewal of so great an evil,
and are disposed rather to make sacrifices to peace than to plunge
afresh into hostilities. The situation of Great Britain, at the end
of the war in which she is now engaged, is likely to be the most
discouraging that can be imagined to the provocation of new wars.
Here we may discover a powerful security for the performance of
her stipulations.

As to the idea of a guarantee or surety for the fulfilment of
the promise, it cannot be seriously believed that it was obtainable.
It would have been an admission of the party, that there was a
well-founded distrust of its faith. To consent to it, therefore,
would have been to subscribe to its own humiliation and disgrace,
the expectation of which has been shown to be ridiculous.

But why was there not equally good reason that we should
have given a guarantee or surety for the performance of our new
promise, with regard to the debts? And if there was to have
been reciprocity, where should we have conveniently found that
guarantee or surety? Should we have thought it very reputable
to ourselves, to have been obliged to furnish it?

The arguments of the opposers of the treaty are extremely
at variance with each other. On the one hand, they represent it
as fraught with advantages to Great Britain, without equivalents
to the United States — as a premeditated scheme to sacrifice our
trade and navigation to hers — as a plan dictated by her, for draw-
ing the two countries into close connection and alliance, and for
making our interests subservient to hers ; on the other hand, they
tell us, that there is no security for the surrender of the posts, ac-
cording to stipulation. How is the one thing to be reconciled
with the other ? If the treaty is such an immense boon to Great
Britain, if it be such a master-piece of political craft on her side,

JEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 231

can there be any danger that she will destroy her favorite work,
by not performing the conditions on which its efficacy and dura-
tion must depend ? There is no position better settled, than that
the breach of any article of a treaty by one party, gives the other
an option to consider the whole treaty as annulled. Would Great
Britain give us this option, in a case in which she had so much
to lose by doing it ?

This glaring collision of arguments, proves how superficially
the adversaries of the treaty have considered the subject, and how
little reliance can be placed on the views they give of it.

In estimating the plan which the treaty adopts, for the settle-
ment of the old controversy, it is an important reflection, that,
from the course of things, there will be nothing to be performed,
by us before the period for the restitution of the posts will have
elapsed ; and that, if this restitution should be evaded, we shall
be free to put an end to the whole treaty, about which there could
not be a moment's hesitation. We should then be where we
were before the treaty, with the advantage of having strengthened
the justice of our cause, by removing every occasion of reproach,
which the infractions of the treaty of peace may have furnished
against us.

Two other particulars, in which this part of the treaty is sup-
posed to be defective, regard the want of indemnification for the
detention of the posts, and for the expenses of Indian wars.

Those who make the objection, may be safely challenged to
produce precedents of similar indemnifications, unless imposed
by conquering powers on the vanquished, or by powers of over-
bearing strength upon those which were too weak to dispute the
logic of superior force. If this were the real situation of the
United States and Great Britain, then is the treaty inexcusably
faulty ; but if the parties were to treat and agree as equal powers,
then is the pretension extravagant and impracticable. The resti-
tution of the specific thing detained, is all that was to be expected,
and, it may be added, it is all that was ever really expected on
the part of this country, so far as we may reason either from offi-
cial acts or informal expressions in the public opinion.

In cases where clear injuries are done, affecting objects of

232 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEx. 38.

known or easily ascertained values, pecuniary compensation may
be expected to be obtained by negotiation ; but it is believed that
it will be impossible to cite an example of compensation so ob-
tained, in a case in which territory has been withheld on a dis-
pute of title, or as a hostage for some other claim (as, in the pres-
ent instance, for securing the performance of the 4th article of
the treaty of peace). The recovery of the territory withheld is
the usual satisfaction.

The want of a rule to adjust consequential damages, is, in such
cases, a very great difficulty. In the instance under discussion,
this difficulty would be peculiarly great. The posts are, for the
most part, in a wilderness. There are but two of them which
have any adjacent settlements; Point-au-Fer, or Dutchman's Point,
to which a part of a tract of land, called Caldwell's Manor, with
a few inhabitants, has been claimed as appurtenant ; and Detroit,
which has a settlement in the town and neighborhood of between
two and three thousand souls. In the vicinity of the other posts,
on our side, there is scarcely an inhabitant. It follows, that very
little damage could be predicated either upon the loss of revenue
from, or of the profits of trade with, the settlements in the vicin-
ity of the posts. The trade of the Indians within our limits
would consequently be the basis of the claim of compensation.
But here the ignorance or spirit of exaggeration of the opponents
of the treaty has been particularly exemplified. The annual loss
from this source has been stated by a very zealous writer against
the treaty, who signs himself Cato, at 800,000 dollars.

Now it is a fact well ascertained, that the mean value of the
whole exports from Canada in peltries (which constitute the re-
turns of Indian trade) in the years 1786 and 1787, was some-
thing short of 800,000 dollars. It is also a fact, in which all men,
informed on the subject, agree, that the trade with the Indians,
within our limits,"* is not more than about one-eighth of that

* An account of peltries exported from Canada in 178G and 1787.

1786. 1787.

Beaver skins, 116;509 139,509

Martin do 58,132 68,132

Otter do 26,330 26,330

Mr. 38.]

CAMILLUS,
which furnishes the peltry exported from Canada. Hence the
total product of our Indian trade could not be computed at more
than 100,000 dollars. What proportion of this may be profit, is
not easy to be determined ; but it is certain, that the profits of
that trade, from the decrease of wild animals, and the inferiority
of their kinds, are not considerable. — Many assert, that it is scarce-
ly any longer worth following. Twenty per cent., therefore,
would, probably, be a large allowance, which would bring the
loss on our Indian trade, by the detention of the posts, to about
20,000, instead of 800,000 dollars per annum, as has been asserted.

But might not a claim, even of this sum, by way of indemni-
fication, be encountered with some force, by the observation, that
there is the highest probability that the capital and labor which
would have been employed to produce 20,000 dollars profit on
the trade with the Indians, have been quite as productively em-
ployed in other channels, and consequently, that there may have
been no loss at all ?

Thus we see how erroneous are the data which serve to mag-
nify claims, in themselves insignificant, and which, from the great
uncertainty of their quantum, are exposed to serious objections.
Are claims like these, proper subjects on which to stake the peace
of the United States?

The reasonableness of indemnification for the expenses of

1786. 1787.

Mink do 9,951 17,051

Fisher do 5,813 5813

Fox # do 6,213 8,913

Bear do 22,108 17,108

Deer do 126,000 102,656

Racoon do . 108,346 140,346

Cut do. cased, 3,026 4 526

Do. do. open, 2,925 1 825

Elk do 7,515 9,815

Wolf do 12.287 9,687

Carcajoux do 503 653

Tiger do 77 27

Seal do 157 125

Muskrat do 202,456 240,456

Deer do. dressed, 5,488 lbs. 1,778 lbs.

Castors 1,454 lbs. 1,434 lbs.

234 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 28.

Indian wars, independent of the unusual nature of the claim,
might have been matter of endless debate. We might have
been told, that the Indians ascribe those wars to pretensions upon
their lands, by virtue of treaties with the former government of
the United States, imposed by violence, or contracted with par-
tial and inadequate representations of their nation — that our own
public records witness, that the proceedings of our agents, at
some of those treaties, were far from unexceptionable — that the
wars complained of are to be attributed to errors in our former
policy, or mismanagement of our public agents, not to the deten-
tion of the posts — that it must be problematical how much of the
duration or expenses of those wars are chargeable upon that
detention — and, that the posts having been detained by way of
security for the performance of the article respecting debts, there
was no responsibility for collateral and casual damages. Had we
resorted to the charge of their having instigated or prompted
those wars, they would have denied the charge, as they have
repeatedly done before ; and, though we might have been able
to adduce circumstances of suspicion against them, they would
have contested their validity and force ; and, whether guilty or
not, would have thought their honor concerned in avoiding the
most distant concession of having participated in so improper a
business.

In every view, therefore, the claim for indemnification was a
hopeless one ; and to insist upon it would have answered no
other purpose than to render an amicable adjustment impossible.
No British minister would have dared to go to a British parlia-
ment to ask provision for such an expenditure. What, then, was
to be done ? Were we now or hereafter to go to war to enforce
the claim? Suppose this done, and fifty or a hundred millions of
dollars expended in the contest, what certainty is there that we
should at last accomplish the object ?

Moreover, the principle of such a war would require, that
we should seek indemnification for the expenses of the war
itself, in addition to our former claim. What prospect is there,
that this also would be effected? yet if not effected, it is evident
that we should have made a most wretched bargain.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 235

Why did we not insist on indemnification for the expenses of
our revolution war ? Surely, not because it was less reasonable,
but because it was evident that it could not have been obtained,
and because peace was necessary to us as well as to our enemy.
This likewise would be the end of a war undertaken to enforce
the claim of indemnification for the detention of the posts. We
should at length be glad to make peace, either without the in-
demnification sought, or at best at an expense to carry on the
war, without a chance of reimbursement, with which the thing
gained would bear no comparison.

The idea which has been thrown out, of leaving the posts in
the hands of the British, till we might be better able than at
present to go to war for indemnification, is a notable political
expedient. This would be to postpone, of choice, the possession
of an object which has been shown to be demanded by very
urgent and important general considerations ; to submit to cer-
tain and great inconveniences from that privation, including
probably the continuance or renewal of Indian hostilities ; and
to run the risk, from the growth of the British settlements in
the neighborhood of the posts, and various unforeseen casual-
ties, of their ultimate acquisition becoming difficult and preca-
rious. For what ? why, to take at last the chances of war, the
issue of which is ever doubtful, to obtain an object, which, if ob-
tained, will certainly cost more than it is worth. The expenses
of war apart, pecuniary indemnification upon any possible scale,
would ill compensate for the evils of the future detention, till the
more convenient time for going to war should arrive. What
should we think of this policy, if it should turn out that the
posts and the indemnification too were to be finally abandoned?

Camillus.

no. IX.

1795.
It was my intention to have comprised in two numbers, the
examination of the 2d article ; but on experiment, it was found

236 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

expedient to add a third. I resume, for a moment, the subject
of indemnification for the detention of the posts.

As an inducement to persist in this claim, we are assured, that
the magnanimity of France would have procured for us its
establishment. In the first place, this supposes that we were to
have become a party in the war ; for otherwise it would be silly
to imagine, that France would, on our account, embarrass herself
with a difficulty of this sort. In this case, and supposing the
object accomplished, still the injuries, losses, and expenses of war
would have greatly overbalanced the advantage gained. But
what certainty have we, that France will be able to dictate terms,
even for herself? Could we expect or rely, after the terrible
and wasting war, in which she has been engaged, that she would
be willing to encumber the making of peace with additional
obstacles, to secure so trifling a point with us? Would it be
even humane, or friendly in us, to ask her to risk the prolonging
of her calamities, for so trivial an object? A conduct like this,
with reference either to France, or to ourselves, would resemble
that of the gamester, who should play millions against farthings.
It is so preposterous in every sense, that the recommendation of
it, if sincere, admits of but one construction, namely, that those
who recommend it, wish our envoy to have acted not as if he
had been sent to make peace, but as if he had been sent to make
war, to blow and spread the desolating flames of discord and
contention.

There is a marked disingenuousness running through the
observations which are made to the prejudice of the treaty : they
endeavor constantly to have it understood, that our envoy aban-
doned, without effort, the claims which have not been establish-
ed. Whence is this inferred? Is it from the silence of the
treaty ? Surely we can only expect to find there what was
agreed upon, not what was discussed and rejected. The truth is,
that as well on this point of indemnification for the detention
of the posts, as on that of compensation for the negroes carried
away, our envoy urged our pretensions as far and as long as
he could do it, without making them final obstacles to the pro-
gress of the negotiation.

jEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 237

I shall now enumerate and answer the remaining objections,
which have appeared against this article. They are these : 1.
That the posts to be surrendered, instead of being described in
general terms, should, for greater certainty, have been specially
enumerated; that now the uncertainty of a part of the boundary
line, may furnish a pretext for detaining some of them. 2. That
the expressions "precincts and jurisdictions," which are except-
ed from our right of settlement, previous to the surrender, are
so vague and indeterminate, as to be capable of being made to
countenance encroachments. 3. That it was improper to have
stipulated, for the inhabitants, the option of residing and con-
tinuing British subjects, or of becoming American citizens : that
the first was established, by treaty, a British colony, within our
limits ; the last to admit, without the power of exception, bitter
enemies of the country to the privileges of citizens. 4. That
the securing to those inhabitants the enjoyment of their property
is exceptionable, as being a " cession without equivalent of an
indefinite extent of territory.'11 This is the character given to it by
the meeting at Philadelphia.

The answer to the first objection, is, that the enumeration
proposed might have included the very danger which is objected
to the provision as it stands, and which is completely avoided by
it. The principal posts occupied by the British, are known and
might easily have been enumerated ; but there is a possibility of
there being others not known, which might have escaped. Last
year there started up a post, which had not been before heard
of, on the pretence of an old trading establishment. Who knows
with absolute certainty, how many similar cases may exist in the
vast extent of wilderness, as far as the Lake of the Woods, which,
for several years past, has been inaccessible to us ? If our en-
voy's information could have been perfect, at the time of his last
advices from America, between that period and the signing of
the treaty changes might have taken place, that is, trading
houses might have grown into military posts, as they did in the
case referred to ; a case, which, in fact, happened after the de-
parture of our envoy from the United States. Was it not far
better than to hazard an imperfect specification, to use terms so

238 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [M-r. 38.

general and comprehensive, as could not fail, in any circum-
stances, to embrace every case? Certainly it was; and the terms
" all ports and places" which are those used in the treaty, are
thus comprehensive. Nothing can escape them.

Neither is there the least danger that the uncertainty* of a
part of the boundary line, can be made a pretext for detaining
the posts which it was impossible to enumerate. This will ap-
pear from an inspection of the map. The only uncertain part
of the boundary line (except that depending on the river St.
Croix, which is on a side unconnected with the position of the
posts) is that which is run from the Lake of the Woods to the
Mississippi. The most western of our known posts is at Mi-
chilimackinac, at or near the junction of the Lakes Huron and
Michigan, eastward near eleven degrees of longitude of the Lake
of the Woods, and about ten degrees of longitude of that point,
on the Mississippi, below the falls of St. Anthony, where a sur-
vey, in order to a settlement of the line, is to begin. Moreover,
our line, by the treaty of peace, is to pass through the Lake Hu-
ron, and the water communication between that lake and Lake
Superior, and through the middle of Lake Superior, and thence
westward through other waters, to the Lake of the Woods ; that
is, about half a degree of latitude more northward, and about
eight degrees of longitude more westward, than any part of
the Lake Michigan. Whence it is manifest, that any closing
line, to be drawn from the Lake of the Woods to the Mississippi,
must pass at a distance of several hundred miles from Michili-
mackinac. If the British, therefore, should be disposed to evade
the surrender, they will seek for it some pretext more plausible
than one which involves a palpable geographical absurdity. Nor
can we desire a better proof of the ignorance or disingenuous-
ness of the objectors to the treaty, than their having contrived
one of this nature.

The general terms used, were to be preferred, for the very

* This uncertainty, it is to be observed, results not from the late treaty, but
from the treaty of peace. It is occasioned by its being unknown, whether any
part of the Mississippi extends far enough north, to be intersected by a due west
line from the Lake of the Woods.

JEr. 38.] C A MILL US. 239

reason, that there was a doubt about the course of a part of the
boundary line; for, if there should chance to exist any post now
unknown, so near the line as to render it questionable, in the
first instance, on which side it may fall ; the moment the line is
settled, the obligation to surrender will be settled with it.

The second objection loses all force, when it is considered,
that the exception can only operate till the first of June next,
the period for the surrender of the posts ; and that, in the mean
time, there is ample space for settlement, without coming to dis-
putable ground. There was, besides, real difficulty in an accurate
definition. What the precincts and jurisdictions of the posts are,
is a question of fact. In some instances, where, from there being
no settlements over which an actual jurisdiction had been exer-
cised, a good rule might have been, the distance of gun-shot
from the fortifications, which might have been settled at a certain
extent in miles, say three or four. But in some cases an actual
jurisdiction has been exercised, under circumstances which cre-
ated obstacles to a precise definition. The case of Caldwell's
Manor, in the vicinity of Dutchman's Point, is an example. There,
a mixed jurisdiction has been sometimes exercised by the
British, and by the State of Vermont, connected with a disputed
title to that manor; one party claiming under an ancient French
grant, and the other under the State of Vermont. Detroit and
its vicinity would also have occasioned embarrassment. From
the situation of the settlements, and of a number of dispersed
trading establishments, a latitude was likely to have been requir-
ed, to which it might have been expedient to give a sanction. In
such situations, where a thing is to last but a short time, it is
commonly the most eligible course, to avoid definition. It is ob-
vious, that no ill can result from the want of one, if the posts
are surrendered at the time agreed ; if not, it is equally plain,
that it can be of no consequence, because the whole article will
be void.

The third objection becomes insignificant, the moment the
real state of things is adverted to. This has been described in a
former number for another purpose, but will now be recapitulat-
ed, with one or two additional facts. The first posts, beginning

240 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

eastward, are, Point-au-Fer and Dutchman's Point, on Lake Cham-
plain. The whole number of persons in this vicinity, over whom
jurisdiction has been claimed by the British, may amount to an
hundred families. But the claim of jurisdiction here, has been
only occasionally and feebly urged ; and it is asserted in addi-
tion, by well-informed persons, that the above-mentioned families
have been, for some time, regularly represented in the legislature
of Vermont, the ordinary civil jurisdiction of which State has,
with little interruption, been extended over them. At neither
of the other posts, to wit, Oswego, Niagara, the Miami, Detroit,
Michilimackinac, is there any settlement, except at Detroit,
where, and in the vicinity of which, there may be between two
and three thousand persons, chiefly French Canadians, and their
descendants. It will be understood, that I do not consider as a
settlement, two or three log houses for traders.

It follows, that the number of persons who can be embraced
by the privileges stipulated, is too inconsiderable to admit of at-
taching any political consequences whatever to the stipulation.
Of what importance can it possibly be, to the United States,
whether two or three thousand persons, men, women, and chil-
dren, are permitted to reside within their limits, either as British
or American subjects, at their option? If the thing was an ob-
ject of desire to Great Britain, for the accommodation of the in-
dividuals concerned, could it have merited a moment's hesitation
on our part? As to residence, it is at the courtesy of nations at
peace to permit the residence of the citizens of each other within
their respective territories. British subjects are now free by our
laws, to reside in all parts of the United States. As to the per-
mission to become citizens, it has been the general policy and
practice of our country to facilitate the naturalization of foreign-
ers. And we may safely count on the interest of individuals,
and on that desire to enjoy equal rights which is so deeply plant-
ed in the human breast, that all who resolve to make their per-
manent residence with us, will become citizens.

It is true, that there may be a few obnoxious characters
(though I do not recollect to have heard of more than two or
three) among the number of those who have acquired by the

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 241

stipulation, a right to become citizens of the United States. But
would it ever have been worthy of the dignity of the national
wrath, to have launched its thunders against the heads of two, or
three, or half a dozen despicable individuals? Can we suppose
that, without a stipulation, it would have been thought worth the
while to make a special exception of their cases out of the oper-
ation of our general laws of naturalization? And if this had
not been done, would they not have found means, if they desired
it, after the lapse of a short period, to acquire the rights of citi-
zens? It is to be observed, that citizens of our own, who may
have committed crimes against our laws, not remitted by the
treaty of peace, would find no protection under this article.

Suppose the stipulation had not been made, what would have
been the probable policy of the United States ? Would it not
have been to leave the handful of settlers undisturbed, in quiet
enjoyment of their property, and at liberty, if British subjects,
to continue such, or become American citizens, on the usual
conditions ? A system of depopulation, or of coercion to one
allegiance or another, would have been little congenial with our
modes of thinking, and would not, I am persuaded, have been
attempted.

If, then, the treaty only stipulates in this respect, what would
have been the course of things without it, what cause for serious
objection can there be on this account ?

The matter of the fourth objection can only derive a mo-
ment's importance from misapprehension. It seems, to have
been imagined, that there are large tracts of land, held under
British grants, made since the peace, which are confirmed by the
part of the article that gives the inhabitants the right of removing
with, selling, or retaining their property.

In the first place it is to be observed, that if such grants had
been made, the stipulation could not be deemed to confirm them ;
because our laws must determine the question, what is the pro-
perty of the inhabitants; and they would rightfully decide, that
the British government, since the treaty of peace, could make
no valid grants of land, within our limits. Upon the ground
even of its own pretensions, it could not have made such grants.
G 16

242 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

Nothing more was claimed, than the right to detain the posts as
a hostage. The right to grant lands presupposes much more, a
fall right to sovereignty and territory.

But in the second place, it has always been understood, and
upon recent and careful inquiry is confirmed, that the British
government has never, since the peace, made a grant of lands within
our limits. It appears, indeed, to have been its policy, to pre-
vent settlements in the vicinity of the posts.

Hence the stipulation, as it affects lands, does nothing more
than confirm the property of those which were holden at the
treaty of peace ; neither is the quantity considerable ; and it
chiefly, if not altogether, depends on titles acquired under the
French government, while Canada was a province of France.

In giving this confirmation, the treaty only pursues what is
a constant rule among civilized nations. When territory is
ceded or yielded up by one nation to another, it is a common
practice, if not a special condition, to leave the inhabitants in the
enjoyment of their property. A contrary conduct would be
disgraceful to a nation ; nor is it very reputable to the objectors
to the treaty, that they have levelled their battery against this
part of it. It is a reflection upon them too, that they employ for
the purpose, terms which import more than is true, even on their
own supposition, and are, therefore, calculated to deceive ; for
the confirmation of property to individuals, could be at most a
cession only of the right of soil, and not of territory, which term
has a technical sense, including jurisdiction.

Let it be added, that the treaty of peace, in the article which
provides "that there should be no future confiscations nor pro-
secutions against any person or persons, by reason of the part
which he or they might have taken in the war ; and that no
person should, on that account, suffer any future loss or damage,
either in his person, liberty or property," did substantially what
is made an objection to the treaty under consideration. It will
not, I believe, be disputed, that it gave protection to all property
antecedently owned, and not confiscated. Indeed, it is a ques-
tion whether the stipulations cited, would not have affected, with
regard to other rights than those of property, a great part of

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 243

what is regulated by the last treaty. Its provisions, in this par-
ticular, were, perhaps, in the main, unnecessary, further than to
obviate a doubt which might have arisen from the suspension of
the treaty, by the withholding of the posts.

Thus have I gone through every objection to the second
article, which is in any degree colorable; and I flatter myself
have shown, not only that the acquisition made by it is of great
and real value, but that it stands as well as circumstances per-
mitted, and is defensible in its details. I have been the more
particular in the examination, because the assailants of the treaty
have exerted all their ingenuity to discredit this article, from a
consciousness, no doubt, that it is a very valuable item of the
treaty; and that it was important to their cause, to envelope it
in as thick a cloud of objection as they were able to contrive.
As an expedient of party, there is some merit in the artifice ; but
a sensible people will see that it is merely artifice. It is a false
calculation, that the people of this country can ever be ultimately
deceived.

Camillus.

no. x.

1795.
The object of the third article is connected with that of the
second. The surrender of the posts naturally drew with it an
arrangement, with regard to inland trade and navigation. Such
an arrangement, convenient in several respects, appears to be in
some respects necessary. To restrain the Indians on either side
of the line, from trading with the one party or the other, at dis-
cretion, besides the questionableness of the right, could not be
attempted without rendering them disgusted and hostile. The
truth of this seems to have influenced the conduct of Great Bri-
tain and France, while the latter was in possession of Canada.
The 15th article of the treaty of peace of Utrecht, in the year
1713, allows free liberty to the Indians on each side, to resort for

244 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

trade to the British, and French colonies. It is to be observed,
too, that the Indians not only insist on a right of going to trade
with whom they please, but of permitting whom they please to
come to trade with them, and also to reside among them for that
purpose. Thus, the southern and south-western Indians within
our limits, maintain a constant intercourse with Spain, established
on the basis of treaty — nor has their right to do it, been hitherto
contested by the United States. Indeed, on what clear principle
of justice could this natural right of trade, of a people not sub-
ject to our ordinary jurisdiction, be disputed? This claim, on
their part, gives a corresponding claim to neighboring nations, to
trade with them. Spain would think the pretension to exclude
her inadmissible ; and Great Britain would have thought the
same, if she had found it her interest to assert the right of inter-
course ; views which would always be seconded by the Indians
from regard to their own interest and independence. It was a
point, therefore, which it much concerned the preservation of
good understanding between the parties and with the Indians, to
regulate on some equitable plan ; and the more liberal the plan,
the more agreeable to a natural course of things, and to the free
participation of mutual advantages, the more likely was it- to pro-
mote and prolong that important benefit.

In the second place, the expediency of some arrangement was
indicated by the circumstance of the boundary line between the
parties, running for an extent of sixteen hundred miles through
the middle of the same rivers, lakes, and waters. It may be
deemed impossible, from the varying course of winds and currents,
for the ships of one party to keep themselves constantly within
their own limits, without passing or transgressing those of the
other. How, indeed, was the precise middle line of those great
lakes to be always known ?

It appears evident, that to render the navigation of these wa-
ters useful to, and safe for, both parties, it was requisite that they
should become common. Without this, frequent forfeitures to
enforce interdictions of intercourse might be incurred — and there
would be constant danger of interference and controversy. It is
probable, too, that when those waters are better explored in their

JEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 245

whole extent, it will be found that the best navigation of those
lakes is sometimes on the one side, sometimes on the other, and
that common convenience will, in this respect, also be promoted
by community of right.

Again— It is almost always mutually beneficial for bordering
territories to have free and friendly intercourse with each other.
This relates not only to the advantages of an interchange of com-
modities for the supply of mutual wants, and to those of the re-
ciprocal creation of industry connected with that interchange,
but also to those of avoiding jealousy, collision, and contest, o£
preserving friendship and harmony. Proximity of territory in-
vites to trade— the bordering inhabitants, in spite of every pro-
hibition, will endeavor to carry it on;— if not allowed, illicit ad-
ventures take place of the regular operations of legalised com-
merce— individual interest leads to collusions to evade restraining
regulations — habits of infracting the laws are produced — morals
are perverted— securities, necessarily great, in proportion as they
counteract the natural course of things, lay the foundation of dis-
contents and quarrels. Perhaps it may be safely affirmed, that
freedom of intercourse, or violent hatred and enmity, are the al-
ternative in every case of contiguity of territory.

The maxims of the United States have hitherto favored a free
intercourse with all the world. They have conceived, that they
had nothing to fear from the unrestrained competition of com-
mercial enterprise, and have only desired to be admitted to it on
equal terms. Hence, not only the communication by sea has
been open with the adjacent territories on our continent as well
as with more distant quarters of the globe ; but two ports have
been erected on Lake Champlain for the convenience of interior
commerce with Canada; and there is no restriction upon any na-
tion, to come by the Mississippi to the only port which has been
established for that side of the Union. These arrangements have
excited neither blame nor criticism.

Our envoy, therefore, in agreeing to a liberal plan of inter-
course with the British territories in our neighborhood, has con-
formed to the general spirit of our country, and to the general
policy of our laws. Great Britain, in acceding to such a plan,

246 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

departed from her system of colonial monopoly, a departure which
ought to be one recommendation of the plan to us; for every re-
laxation of that system paves the way for other and further re-
laxations. It might have been expected, also, that a spirit of
jealousy might have proved an obstacle on the part of Great Bri-
tain ; since, especially if we consider the composition of those who
inhabit, and are likely to inhabit Canada, it is morally certain,
that there must be, as the result of a free intercourse, a far greater
momentum of influence of the United States upon Canada, than
tof Canada upon the United States. It would not have been sur-
prising, if this jealousy had sought to keep us at a distance, and
had counteracted the wiser policy of limiting our desires by giv-
ing us possession of what is alone to us truly desirable, the ad-
vantages of commerce, rather than of suffering our wishes to be
stimulated and extended by privation and restraint.

New ideas seem of late to have made their way among us.
The extremes of commercial jealousy are inculcated. Regula-
tion, restriction, exclusion, are now with many the favorite
topics — instead of feeling pleasure, that new avenues of trade are
opened, a thousand dangers and mischiefs are pourtrayed when
the occasion occurs. Free trade with all the world seems to
have dwindled into trade with France and her dominions. The
love-sick partisans of that country appear to regard her as the
epitome of the universe, to have adopted for their motto, " All
for love, and the world well lost."

These new propensities towards commercial jealousy, have
been remarkably exemplified with respect to the article immedi-
ately under consideration. Truly estimated, it is a valuable in-
gredient in the treaty ; and yet there is, perhaps, no part of it
which has been more severety reprobated. It will be easy to
show that it has been extremely misrepresented, and that what
have been deemed very exceptionable features, do not exist at
all.

We will first examine what the article really does contain,
and afterwards what are the comparative advantages likely to
result to the two countries.

The main stipulation is, that "it shall at all times be free

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 247

to his majesty's subjects, and to the citizens of the United States
— and also to the Indians dwelling on either side of the boundary
line, freely to pass and repass, by land and inland navigation, into
the respective territories and countries of the two parties on the
continent of America (the country within the limits of the Hud-
son's Bay company only excepted), and to navigate all the lakes,
rivers, and waters thereof, and freely to carry on trade and com
merce with each other."

The subject matter of this stipulation is plainly inland trade
and commerce, to be carried on by land passage, and inland navig a- .
tion. This appears, 1st, from the terms of the article. The sub-
jects and citizens of the two parties, and also the Indians dwell-
ing on each side of the boundary line, are freely to pass and re-
pass. In what manner? by land and inland navigation : to what
places? into the respective territories and countries of the two
parties, on the continent of America (the country of the Hud-
son's Bay company only excepted). They are also to navigate
all the lakes, rivers, and v:aters thereof, and freely to carry on
trade and commerce with each other. This right to navigate
lakes, rivers, and waters, must be understood with reference to
inland navigation ; because this gives it a sense conformable
with the antecedent clause, with which it is immediately con-
nected, as part of a sentence ; because the right to pass and re-
pass, being expressly restricted to land and inland navigation,
it would not be natural to extend it by implication, on the
strength of an ambiguous term, to passage by sea, or by any
thing more than inland navigation ; because the lakes and rivers
have direct reference to inland navigation, showing that to be the
object in view; and the word "waters," from the order in which
it stands, will, most consistently with propriety of composition,
be understood as something less than lakes and rivers, as ponds,
canals, and those amphibious waters, to which it is scarcely pos-
sible to give a name; and because the waters mentioned are
" waters thereof," that is, waters of the territories and coun-
tries of the two parties on the continent of America ; a de-
scription which cannot very aptly be applied to the sea, or be
supposed to include navigation by sea to the United States, or

248 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

from them to the British territories. It is true, that nations, for
various purposes, claim and exercise jurisdiction over the seas
immediately adjacent to their coasts ; yet this is subject to the
common riarht. of nations to the innocent use of those seas for

O

navigation ; and it is not, prima facie, presumable, that two na-
tions, speaking of the waters of each other, would mean to give
this appropriate denomination to waters, in which both claimed
some common right. — The usual description of such waters in
treaties is, " the seas near the countries," &c. — But were it other-
wise, still the navigating from the open sea into those waters,
could not be within the permission to navigate those waters, and
might be prohibited.

The above construction is confirmed by the general com-
plexion of the treaty. It is the manifest province of the eighteen
articles, which succeed the first ten, to regulate external com-
merce and navigation. The regulations they contain, are intro-
duced thus, by the 11th article: "It is agreed between his
Majesty and the United States of America, that there shall be a
reciprocal and entirely perfect liberty of navigation and com-
merce, between their respective people, in the manner, under the
limitations, and on the conditions specified in the following
articles." Then follow articles, which provide fully and dis-
tinctly for trade and navigation between the United States and
the British West Indies, between the Asiatic dominions of Great
Britain and the United States ; and lastly, between the European
dominions of Great Britain and the United States. These
eighteen articles properly constitute the treaty of commerce and
navigation between the two countries. Their general scope, and
some special provisions which they contain, prove that the object
of the third article is local and partial ; that it contemplates,
exclusively, an interior commerce by land and inland navigation
(except as to the Mississippi,) and particularly that it does not
reach at all our Atlantic ports. An instance of one of the spe-
cial provisions alluded to, will be cited in the further examina-
tion of this article.

In opposition to this construction, much stress is laid upon
the provisions which immediately succeed the clauses that have

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 249

been quoted. They are in these words ; " But it is understood,
that this article does not extend to the admission of vessels of
the United States into the seaports, harbors, bays, or creeks of
his Majesty's said territories, nor into such parts of the rivers in
his said territories as are between the mouth thereof and the
highest port of entry from the sea, except in small vessels trading
bona fide between Montreal and Quebec : nor to the admission
of British vessels from the sea into the rivers of the United
States, beyond the highest ports of entry for foreign vessels from
the sea !" The last, it is said, contains an implication, that under
this article, British vessels have a right to come to our highest
ports of entry for foreign vessels from the sea, while we are
excluded from the seaports of the British territories on this con-
tinent.

But this is altogether an erroneous inference. The clauses
last cited are inserted for greater caution, to guard expressly
against any construction of the article by implications more or
less remote ; contrary to the actual regulations of the parties,
with regard to external commerce and navigation. Great Britain
does not now permit a trade by sea to Nova Scotia and Canada.
She therefore declares that the article shall not be deemed to
contravene this regulation. The United States now permit
foreign vessels to come to certain ports of entry from the sea,
but exclude them from other more interior ports of entry, to
which our own vessels may come." It is therefore declared on
their part, that the article shall not be construed to contravene
this regulation. This was the more proper, as the right of inland
navigation might have given some color to the claim of going
from an outer to an inner port of entry. But this negative of
an implication, which might have found some color in the prin-
cipal provision, can never be construed into an affirmative grant
of a very important privilege, foreign to that principal provision.
The main object of the article, it has been seen, is trade by land
and inland navigation. Trade and navigation by sea, with our

* An example of this is found in the State of New- York. Foreign vessels can
only enter and unlade at the city of New-York ; vessels of the United States may
enter at the city of Hudson, and unlade there and at Albany.

250 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

seaports, is an entirely different tiling. To infer a positive
grant of this privilege, from a clause which, says, that the right
of inland navigation shall not be construed to permit vessels
coming from the sea, to go from the ports of entry, to which our
laws now restrict them, to more interior ports, would be contrary
to reason, and to every rule of sound construction. Such a pri-
vilege could never be permitted to be founded upon any thing
less than a positive and explicit grant. It could never be sup-
ported by an implication drawn from an article relative to a
local and partial object, much less by an implication drawn from
the negative of another implication. The pretension, that all
our ports were laid open to Great Britain by a covert and side-
wind provision, and this without reciprocity, without a right of
access to a single seaport of the other party in any part of the
world, would be too monstrous to be tolerated for an instant.
The principles of equity between nations, and the established
rules of interpretation, would unite to condemn so great an ine-
quality, if another sense could possibly be found for the terms
from which it might be pretended to be deduced. It would be
in the present case the more inadmissible, because the object is
embraced and regulated by other parts of the treaty on terms of
reciprocity.

The different mode of expression, in the clause last cited,
when speaking of the British territories, and when speaking of
the United States, has furnished an argument for the inference
which has been stated. But this difference is accounted for by
the difference in the actual regulations of the parties, as described
above. The object was on each side to oust an implication
interfering with those regulations. The expressions to effect it
were commensurate with the state of the fact on each side ; and
consequently do not warrant any collateral or special inference.

The only positive effect of these clauses is to establish, that
the navigation from Montreal to Quebec shall be carried on in
what are called " small vessels, trading bona fide between Mon-
treal and Quebec." In determining their sense, it merits some
observation, that they do not profess to except from the operation
of the general provisions of the article the seaports, &c, of the

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 251

British territories ; but declare, that it is understood that those
provisions do not extend to them. This is more a declaration that
the antecedent provisions were not so broad as to comprehend
the cases, than an exception of the cases from the operation
of those provisions.

Those who are not familiar with laws and treaties, may feel
some difficulty about the position, that particular clauses are in-
troduced only for greater caution, without producing any new ef-
fect; but those who are familiar with such subjects, know, that
there is scarcely a law or a treaty which does not offer examples
of the use of similar clauses; and it not unfrequently happens,
that a clear meaning of the principal provision is rendered ob-
scure by the excess of explanatory precaution.

The next clause of this article is an exception to the general
design of it, confirming the construction I have given. " The
river Mississippi shall, however, according to the treaty of peace,
be entirely open to both parties ; and it is further agreed, that all
the porta and places on its eastern side, to which soever of the
parties belonging, may freely be resorted to and used by both
parties, in as ample a manner as any of the Atlantic ports or places
of the United States, or any of the ports or places of hisjnajesty
in Great Britain."

If the general provision gives access to all our ports, which
must be the doctrine, if it gives access to our Atlantic ports, then
it would equally have this effect with regard to the Mississippi.
But this clause clearly implies the contrary, not only by intro-
ducing a special provision for the ports of the Mississippi, but by
introducing it expressly, as a further or additional agreement;
the words are, "it is further agreed, &c, and these ports are to be
enjoyed by each party, in as ample a manner as any of the Atlantic
ports or places of the United States, or any of the ports or places of
his majesty in Great Britain, This reference to our Atlantic ports,
coupling them with the ports of Great Britain, shows that the
Mississippi ports are to be regulated by a rule or standard differ-
ent from the ports for that inland navigation, which is the gene-
ral object of the article; else, why that special reference? why
not have stopped at the words " used by both parties ?" If it be

252 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

said, that the reference to our Atlantic ports implies, that they
are within the purview of the article, let it be observed, that the
same argument would prove that the ports of Great Britain are
also within its purview, which is plainly erroneous; for the main
provisions are expressly confined to the territories of the parties
on this continent. The conclusion is, that the reference is to a
standard, out of the article, and depending on other parts of the
treaty.

It may be useful to observe here, that the Mississippi ports
being to be used only in as ample, and not in a more ample man-
ner, than our Atlantic ports, and the ports of Great Britain, will
be liable at all times to all the regulations, privileges, and re-
strictions of the ports with which they are assorted.

The next clause is a still further refutation of the construction
which I oppose.

"All goods and merchandise, whose importation into his ma-
jesty's said territories in America shall not be entirely prohibited, may
freely, for the purposes of commerce, be carried into the same, in
the manner aforesaid, by the citizens of the United States; and
such goods and merchandise shall be subject to no higher or
other duties than would he payable by his majesty's subjects on the im-
portation of the same from Europe, into the said territories : and in
like manner, all goods and merchandise, whose importation into
the United States shall not be wholly prohibited, may freely, for the
purposes of commerce, be carried into the same, in the manner afore-
said, subject to no higher or other duties than luould be payable by the
citizens of the United States, on the importation of the same in
American vessels into the Atlantic ^>orts of the said States: and all
goods not prohibited to be exported from the said territories re-
spectively, may, in like manner, be carried out of the same by
the two parties respectively, paying duty as aforesaid."

The words, " in the manner aforesaid," occur twice in these
clauses, and their equivalent, " in like manner,'11 once. What is
the meaning of this so often repeated phrase ? it cannot be pre-
sumed, that it would have been inserted so frequently without
having to perform some office of consequence. I answer, that it
is evidently the substitute for these other words of the main pro-

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 253

vision, "by land and inland navigation.1'1 This is " the manner
aforesaid." This is the channel, through which goods and mer-
chandises passing,' would be subject to no other or higher duties
than would be payable in the British territories by British sub-
jects, if imported from Europe ; or in the territories of the United
States, by citizens of the United States, if brought by American
vessels into our Atlantic ports. No other reasonable use can be
found for the terms. If they are denied this sense, they had much
better been omitted, as being not only useless, but as giving cause
to suppose a restriction of what, it is pretended, was designed to
be genera] — a right of importing in every way, and into all parts
of the United States, goods and merchandise, if not entirely pro-
hibited, on the same duties as are payable by our own citizens
when brought in our own vessels.

These words, " whose importation into the United States shall
not be entirely prohibited," is a further key to the true sense of
the article. They are equivalent to these other words, " whose
importation into all parts of the United States shall not be prohib-
ited."— The design of this clause is to prevent importation,
through the particular channels contemplated by the article, be-
ing obstructed by a partial or by any other than a general prohi-
bition. As long as certain goods may be introduced into the
United States through the Atlantic ports, they may also be brought
into them through the channels designated by this article, that is,
by land and inland navigation. The making a prohibition in the
given case to depend on a general prohibition, is conclusive to
prove, that the article contemplates only particular channels. On
any other supposition, the clause is nonsense. The true reading,
then, of this part of the article, must be as follows: "Goods and
merchandise, whose importation into all parts of the United States
shall not be prohibited, may freely, for the purposes of commerce,
be carried into the same, in manner aforesaid, that is, by land and
inland navigation, from the territories of his majesty on the conti-
nent of America."

There are still other expressions in the article, which are like-
wise an index to its meaning. They are these, " would be payable
by the citizens of the United States, on the importation of the same

254 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

in American vessels into the Atlantic ports of the said states." This
reference to a rate of duties, which would be payable on impor-
tation into the Atlantic ports, as a rule or guide for the rate of
duties, which is to prevail in the case meant to be comprehended
in the article, is full evidence that importation in the Atlantic
ports is not included in that case. The mention of importation
in American vessels, confirms this conclusion, as it shows that the
article itself contemplates, that the discrimination made by our
existing laws may continue.

But the matter is put out of all doubt by those parts of the
fifteenth article which reserve to the British government the right
of imposing such duty as may be adequate to countervail the dif-
ference of duty, now payable on the importation of European and
Asiatic goods, when imported into the United States in British
and American vessels; and which stipulate, that "the United
States will not increase the now subsisting difference between the
duties payable on the importation of any articles in British or
American vessels."

This is a demonstration that the treaty contemplates, as con-
sistent with it, a continuance of the present difference of duties
on importations in American and British vessels ; and consequent-
ly, that the third article, which stipulates equal duties, as to the
cases within it, does not extend to importations into our Atlantic
ports, but is confined to importations by land and inland naviga-
tion. Though this article be of temporary duration, yet as an
evidence of the sense of the parties, it will always serve as a rule
of construction for every part of the instrument.

These different views of the article establish, beyond the pos-
sibility of doubt, that, except with regard to the Mississippi, in-
land trade and navigation are its sole objects — that it grants no
right or privilege whatever in our Atlantic ports — and that with
regard to the ports of the Mississippi, it only establishes this prin-
ciple, that Great Britain shall always enjoy there the same privi-
leges which by treaty or law she is allowed to have in our Atlan-
tic ports.

I remark incidentally, for a purpose which will appear here-
after, that as far as this article is concerned, we are free to pro-

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 255

hibit the importation into the United States at large, of any Brit-
ish article whatever, though we cannot prohibit its importation
partially, that is, merely from her territories in our neighborhood,
by land or inland navigation ; but we may prohibit the importa-
tion by sea from those territories; nor is there any other part of the
treaty by which this is prevented.

The remaining clauses of this article establish the following
points: "That no duty of entry shall be levied by either party
on peltries brought by land or inland navigation, into the respec-
tive territories;" that Indians, passing and repassing with their
own goods, shall pay no impost or duty upon them ; but goods
in bales, or other large packages, unusual among Indians, shall
not be considered as their goods; that tolls and rates of ferriage
shall be the same on both sides as are paid by natives — that no
duties shall be paid by either party on the mere transit of goods
across portages and carrying places from one part to another of
the territory of the same party ; that the respective governments
will promote friendship, good neighborhood, and amicable inter-
course, by causing speedy and impartial justice to be done, and
necessary protection to be extended to all who may be concerned
therein.

I shall conclude this paper with an observation or two on the
meaning of the terms, inland navigation. These terms have no
technical meaning defined in the laws of either country, nor
have they any precise meaning assigned by the law of nations.
They, however, ex vi termini, exclude navigation from the sea ;
and as a general rule, I should say, that inland navigation begins
there, where sea navigation ends. Where is this ? I answer, at
the ports of entry from the sea. By the laws of Great Britain
and of the United States, all rivers are arms of the sea as far as
the tides flow. It would be a consequence of this principle, that
sea navigation would reach to the head of tide water. But some
more obvious and notorious rule ought to govern the interpreta-
tion of national compacts. The ports of entry from the sea are
conceived to be the proper rule.

In the case under consideration, the general spirit of the
article may require, that all the waters which divide the territo-

256 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

ries of the parties should be in their whole extent common to
both. As to other communicating waters, accessible under the
article, the reciprocal limit of the right will be the ports of entry
from the sea. This is to be understood with the exception of the
Mississippi, to the ports of which, access from the sea is granted
under the qualification which has been pointed out.

Camillus.

NO. XI.

1795.
The foregoing analysis of the third article, by fixing its true
meaning, enables us to detect some gross errors, which have been
principal sources of prejudice against it. One of these is, that
the article gives to the other party a right of access to all
our ports, while it excludes us from the ports of the British terri-
tories in our neighborhood. It has been clearly shown, that it
gives no right of access to any one of our Atlantic ports, and
that it gives only a qualified and conditional access to the ports
which we may have on the Mississippi, to be regulated by the
privileges at any time allowed by law or compact in our Atlantic
ports, and liable to cease with the cessation of those privileges.
The charge, therefore, of want of reciprocity in this particular,
vanishes, and with it all the exceptionable consequences which
have been the fruit of the error. Such is the assertion of Decius,
that a British trader may set out from Canada, traverse our
lakes, rivers and waters to New-York, and thence to Philadel-
phia, while we are precluded from the navigation of the St.
Lawrence, and other British rivers lower than the highest ports
of entry from the sea. It would be an indulgent construction of
the article, not to stop the British trader at Hudson, as the high-
est port of entry from the sea, and the boundary of inland navi-
gation ; but he could certainly have no claim of right under it,
to go from New-York to Philadelphia, because he must necessa-
rily go by sea to arrive at the first place, and no such permission

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 257

is stipulated by the article. Such, also, is the assertion of Cato,
that Great Britain is admitted to all the advantages of which our
Atlantic rivers are susceptible. The rivers, upon which no part
of their territory borders, and which their vessels can only ap-
proach by sea, are certainly excepted.

Another of the errors referred to, is this, that goods and mer-
chandise may, under this article, be imported into any part
of the United States, upon the same duties which are now paya-
ble when imported by citizens of the United States, and in ves-
sels of the United States. It has been clearly proved, that there
is no pretence for this position, and that equality of duties only
applies to importations from the British territories, in our neigh-
borhood, by land and inland navigation.

Cato, Decius, and other writers against the treaty, have
fallen into this strange error, and have founded upon it much
angry declamation. The first, however, embarrassed in his con-
struction, by the provision which reserves to Great Britain the
right of laying countervailing duties, endeavors to escape from it
by distinguishing goods imported for the Indian trade, and those
imported for other uses. Whatever may be the case with regard
to the latter, the former, he is convinced, are certainly entitled to
admission into our Atlantic ports, on the privileged rights of
duty ; though he is very naturally perplexed to see how the dis-
crimination could be maintained in practice. But where does he
find room for this distinction ? Not in the provision respecting
countervailing duties, for that is general — not in the clause of the
third article, to which he gives the interpretation, for that is
directly against his distinction. The goods and merchandise, for
the privileged importation of which it provides, are restricted to
no particular object — have no special reference to Indian more
than to other trade : on the, contrary, they are expressly to be
imported for "the purposes of commerce " at large; so that in
the cases in which they are privileged, they are equally so, whe-
ther it be for a trade with our citizens or with Indians. The
distinction, therefore, only proves the embarrassment of its in-
ventor, without solving the difficulty. A curious assertion has
been made on this article of duties. It has been said, that while
G 17

258 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

we are obliged to admit British goods on the same duties with
those paid by our own citizens, or importation in our own vessels,
Great Britain, under the right to lay countervailing duties, may
incumber us with an additional ten per cent. Can any thing be
more absurd than the position, that the right to lay countervailing
duties exists in a case, where there is no difference of duty to
countervail? The term is manifestly a relative one, and can
only operate where there is something on our side to be counter-
vailed or counterbalanced, and in an exact ratio to it. If it be
true, that a very high law character is the writer of Cato, we
cannot but be surprised at such extreme inaccuracy.

Other errors, no less considerable, will appear in the pro-
gress of the examination ; but it will facilitate the detection of
these, and tend to a more thorough understanding of the article,
to state in this place some general facts, which are material in a
comparison of the advantages and disadvantages of the article, to
the respective parties.

1st. The fur trade within our limits is, to the fur trade within
the British limits, as one to seven, nearly ; that is, the trade with
the Indians, on the British side of the boundary line, is about
seven times greater than the same trade on our side of that line.
This fact is stated as the result of repeated inquiry from well in-
formed persons for several years past. It will not appear extra-
ordinary to those who recollect how much the Indians on our
side are circumscribed in their hunting-grounds, and to what a
degree they are reduced in numbers by the frequent wars, in
which they have been engaged with us ; while the tribes on the
British side of the line are not only far more numerous, but
enjoy an immense undisturbed range of wilderness. The more
rapid progress of settlement on our side than on the other, will
fast increase the existing disparity.

2d. Our communication with the sea is more easy, safe, and
expeditious, than that of Canada, by the St. Lawrence. Accord-
ingly, while our vessels ordinarily make two voyages in a year,
to and from Europe, the British vessels, in the Canada trade,
are, from the course of the seasons, and the nature of the navi-
gation, confined to one voyage in a year. Though hitherto,

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUa. 259

from temporary circumstances, this difference has not made any
sensible difference in the price of transportation ; yet in its per-
manent operation, it is hardly possible that it should not give us
a material advantage in the competition for the supply of Eu-
ropean goods to a large part of Canada, especially that which is
denominated Upper Canada. The city of Hudson, distant 124
miles from the city of New- York, is as near to the junction of
the river Cataraquy and Lake Ontario, as Montreal, which last
is near four hundred miles distant from the mouth of the St.
Lawrence. When the canals, now in rapid execution, are com-
pleted, there will be a water communication the whole way from
the city of Hudson to Ontario.

3d. The supply of East India goods to Canada, is likely to
be always easier and cheaper through us, than in any other way.
According to the present British system, Canada is supplied
through Britain. It is obvious how much the charges of this
double voyage must enhance the prices of the articles, when de-
livered in Canada. A direct trade between the East Indies and
Canada, would suppose a change in the British system, to which
there are great obstacles ; and even then, there are circumstances
which would secure to us an advantageous competition. It is a
fact, which serves to illustrate our advantages, that East India
articles, including teas, are, upon an average, cheaper in the
United States than in England.

The facts demonstrate that a trade between us and the Bri-
tish territories in our neighborhood, upon equal terms as to pri-
vilege, must afford a balance of advantages on our side. As to
the fur trade, for a participation in one eighth of the whole,
which we concede, we gain a participation in seven eighths which
is conceded to us. As to the European and East India trade, we
acquire the right of competition upon equal terms of privilege,
with real and considerable advantages of situation.

The stipulation with regard to equal duties, was essential to
the preservation of our superiority of advantages in this trade,
while it would not interfere with the general policy of our regu-
lation, concerning the difference of duties on goods imported in
our own and in foreign bottoms ; because the supplies which can

260 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38

come to us through Canada, for the reasons already given, mast
be inconsiderable ; because, also, distance would soon countervail,
in expenses of transportation, the effect of the difference of du-
ties in our market; and because, in the last place, this difference
is not very sensible, owing to the large proportion of goods
which are imported in the names of our own citizens. I say
nothing here of the practicability, on general grounds, of long
maintaining with effect this regulation.

Is it not wonderful, considering the real state of the trade, as
depending on locality, that the treaty should be charged with
sacrificing the fur trade to the British? If there be any sacri-
fice, is it not on their side ; when the fact is, that the quantity of
trade in which they admit us to equal privileges is seven times
greater than that in which we admit them to equal privileges?

The arguments against the treaty on this point, are not only
full of falsity, but they are in contradiction with each other.

On the one hand, it is argued that our communication from
the sea, with the Indian country, being much easier than by the
St. Lawrence, we could furnish English goods cheaper, and of
course could have continued the Indian trade in its usual channel,
even from the British side of the lakes ; nor could they have
prevented it, without giving such disgust to the Indians, as would
have made them dangerous neighbors. On the other hand, it is
argued, that from superiority of capital, better knowledge of the
trade, a better established connection of customers, the British
will be able to supplant us, even in our own territories, and to
acquire a monopoly of the whole fur trade.

Propositions so opposite cannot all be true. Either the sup-
posed faculty of supplying English goods cheaper, which, it is
said, would give us a command of the Indian trade, even on the
British side of the lakes, not in the power of the British to pre-
vent, overbalances the advantages which are specified on the
other side, or it does not. If it does not, then it is not true, that it
could draw to us the trade from the British side of the lakes. If
it does, then it is not true, that the British can supplant us in
the trade on either side the lakes ; much less that they can ob-
tain a monopoly of it on both sides.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 261

Besides, if it be true that the British could not prevent our
trading with the Indians on their side, without giving them such
disgust as to make them dangerous to their neighbors; why is it
not equally true, that we could not prevent their trading with
the Indians on our side, without producing a similar effect ? And
if they have really a superiority of advantages, why would they
not, on the principle of this argument, attract and divert the trade
from us, though a mutual right to trade with the Indians in each
other's territories had not been stipulated?

The difficulty of restraining the Indians from trading at plea-
sure, is an idea well founded, as has been admitted in another
place. But there result from it strong arguments in favor of re-
ciprocation of privileges in the Indian trade, by treaty. One of
them, its tendency to preserve peace and good understanding,
has been already noticed ; another arises from the consideration,
that it will probably be the policy of the British to maintain
larger military establishments on their frontier than we shall
think eligible on ours, which will render it proportionably more
easy to them to restrain their Indians, than it will be to us to re-
strain ours. This greater difficulty of executing restraints on our
side, is a powerful reason for us to agree, mutually, to throw
open the door.

It will not be surprising if, upon some other occasion, the
adversaries of the treaty should abandon their own ground, and
instead of saying the treaty is faulty, for what it stipulates on
this point, should affirm merely that it has no merit on this ac-
count, since it only does what the disposition of the Indians
would have brought about without it. But it is always a merit
to divest an advantageous thing of cause of dispute, and to fix,
by amicable agreement, a benefit which otherwise would be lia-
ble to litigation, opposition, and interruption.

As to relative advantages for carrying on trade, the com-
parison ought to be made with caution. That which has been
stated on our side, namely, greater facility in conveying the ma-
terials of the trade from Europe to the scene where it is to be
carried on, is a real one, and in process of time may be expected
to make itself to be felt ; yet hitherto, as before observed, it has
had no sensible effect.

262 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Of the advantages which have been stated as belonging; to
the other side, there is but one which has substance, and this is
previous possession of the ground. But even this, from the very
nature of it, is temporary. With our usual enterprise and indus-
try, it will be astonishing if we do not speedily share the ground
to the full extent of our relative advantages.

As to superiority of capital, it amounts to nothing. It has
been seen, that the capital requisite for the whole trade is small.
From a hundred to a hundred and fifty thousand pounds sterling
would be a high statement. The whole of this, if we were to
monopolize the entire trade, could not create a moment's embar-
rassment to find it, in the opinion of any man who attends to
the great pecuniary operations which are daily going on in our
country. But that very capital which is represented as our rival,
could be brought into action for our benefit in this very trade.
The solution is simple. Our credit will command it in obtaining
the foreign articles necessary for the trade, upon as good terms
as the British merchants who now carry it on. The same objec-
tion of superiority of capital may with as much reason be applied
to any other branch of trade between us and Great Britain.
Why does it not give her a monopoly of the direct trade be-
tween her European dominions and the United States? The argu-
ment, if valid, would prove that we ought to have no commerce,
not only with Great Britain, but with any nation which has
more commercial capital than ourselves.

As to superior knowledge of the particular branch of business,
there is still less force in that argument. It is not a case of
abstruse science or complicated combination. And we are in no
want of persons among us, who are experimentally acquainted
with the subject.

As to customers for the proceeds of the trade, we should
stand upon as good a footing as the British merchants. What
we did not want for our own consumption, might be sent upon
equal terms to the very markets to which they send theirs ; and
to others which might be found preferable, because less well sup-
plied with the kind of articles.

As to whatever may depend on enterprise, we need not fear

JEr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 263

to be outdone by any people on earth. It may almost be said,
that enterprise is our element.

It has been alleged, that our trade with the Indians would
be interrupted by bad seasons and occasional wars, while that of
Great Britain would be steady and uniform. As to the casual-
ties of seasons, it is evident they must fall upon Great Britain as
much as upon us, unless we suppose the elements in conspiracy
against us ; and as to wars, the possession of the posts would
essentially change our situation, and render it peculiarly advan-
tageous for preventing or repressing hostilities; so that with
equally good management, our territories would not be more
exposed than the British.

But the intrigues of the British traders residing among our
Indians, would excite them to hostility. It could not be the
private interest of the traders to do this ; because, besides being
amenable to punishment, if discovered — besides, that both the
traders and the Indians within our limits, by the possession of
the posts, would be under our control — wars interrupt of course
the hunting of the Indians, and so destroy their means of trading.

As to Great Britain, she never could have had but one in-
terest to prompt Indian hostilities, that was, to induce the United
States to relinquish a part of their boundary. The restitution of
the posts will put an end to this project. In regard to trade,
she and her traders will have a common interest with us, and
our traders, to keep all the Indians at peace, for the reason
assigned above. This interest will be the stronger, because the
best communication even with her own Indians, will be partly
through our territory ; and it would be impossible that it should
not be impeded and interrupted by the operations of war between
us and the Indians. In fact, under the circumstance of common
privileges, there is every possible link of common interest be-
tween us and Great Britain in the preservation of peace with the
Indians.

In this question of danger to our peace by the British parti-
cipation in the trade with our Indians, the difficulty of restraining
the Indians from trading with whom they please (which is ad-
mitted by the argument of both sides) is a very material con-

264 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

sideration. Would there not be greater hazard to our peace
from the attempts of the British to participate in a trade from
which we endeavored to exclude them, seconded by the discon-
tents of the Indians, than from any dispositions to supplant us,
when allowed a free competition, when no cause of dissatisfac-
tion was given to the Indians, and when it was certain, that war
must interfere with their means of carrying on the trade ? The
security for our peace appears to be much greater in the latter,
than in the former state of things.

A suspicion is also suggested, that Great Britain, without
exciting war, will indirectly trammel and obstruct our trade.
To objections which suppose a want of fair dealing in the other
party, it is very difficult to answer. All that a treaty can do, is
to establish principles which are likely to operate well, if well
executed. It is no objection to its merits, that the benefits aimed
at may be frustrated by ill faith. The utility of any compact
between nations must presume a sincere execution. The reverse
mav disappoint the best conceived plan : and the security
against it must be the mutual interest to perform, and the power
of retaliation. If Great Britain acts with infidelity or chicanery
towards us, we must retract the privileges granted on our side.

Another objection which is made, is, that while the British
would have a right to reside among us, to hire houses and ware-
houses, and to enjoy every convenience for prosecuting the trade
systematically, we should not be entitled to similar privileges
with them, having only a right to pass " like pedlars with our
shops upon our backs." These are the expressions of Cato.

The position is founded on that clause of the British act of
navigation, which forbids any but a natural born or naturalized
subject to exercise the occupation of a merchant or factor, in any
of the British dominions in Asia, Africa, and America.

In the first place, it is to be observed, that as far as the ar-
ticle under discussion is singly concerned, there is no pretence to
say, that one party has greater rights as to residence than the
other. If, therefore, Great Britain can prevent our citizens
residing in their territories in our neighborhood, we are free by
this article to apply to them a similar exclusion. And any right

JEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 205

of residence which may be claimed under any other part of the
treaty, will be temporary.

In the second place, the prohibition of residence in the act of
navigation, proceeds on the ground of excluding foreigners from
carrying on trade in the territories to which it extends. But the
third article expressly gives us a right freely to carry on trade
and commeice with the British territories on this continent, a
right which necessarily includes the privilege of residing as mer-
chants and factors. For wherever an end is granted, the usual
&nd proper means of enjoying it, are implied in the grant. Resi-
dence is a usual and necessary mean of freely carrying on trade.
Without it, the right to trade becomes essentially nugatory.
This reasoning has peculiar force in relation to inland trade.
And it agrees with decisions at common law, and with the
opinion of Lord Coke, who tells us that " of a house for habita-
tion an alien merchant may take a lease for years, as incident to
commerce ' for without habitation he cannot merchandise or trade."
This, among other things, he informs us, was resolved by all the
judges assembled for that purpose, in the case of Sir James Croft,
in the reign of queen Elizabeth ; and we learn from it, that the
right to hire houses and warehouses is derived from the right to
trade, as its incident. The same principle, in toto, has been
recognized in other cases.

The whole of the article is an innovation upon the British
act of navigation. Being abrogated as to the principal thing,
there is no difficulty in supposing it so as to incidents; on the
other hand, to pretend to exclude us from the right of residence,
could not be deemed a fair execution of the article. Hence we
find, that the want of reciprocity in this particular, also foils,
and with it the supposed disadvantage on our side in the sup.
posed competition for the trade.

Camillus.

266 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38

NO. XII.

1795.
The remaining allegations, in disparagement of the third ar-
ticle, are to this effect: — 1. That the exception of the country of
the Hudson's Bay company, owing to its undefined limits, ren-
ders the stipulations in our favor, in a great measure, nugatory.
2. That the privileges granted to Great Britain in our Mississippi
ports, are impolitic, because without reciprocity. 3. That the
agreement to forbear to lay duties of entry on peltries, is the
surrender, without equivalent, of a valuable item of revenue,
and will give the British the facility of carrying on their fur
trade through us, with the use of our advantages. 4. That the
articles, which will be brought from Europe into Canada, coming
duty free, can be afforded cheaper than the same articles going
thither from us, charged with a heavy duty on their impor-
tation into the United States, and with the expense of a long
transportation by land, and inland navigation. 5. That the po-
pulation of Canada, which, by a census in 1784, amounted only
to 123,082 souls, is too small to render the supply of European
and Asiatic commodities, through us, of so much importance as
to bear any comparison with the loss by the sacrifice of the fur
trade. 6. That the intercourse to be permitted with the British
territories, will facilitate smuggling, to the injury of our revenue.
7. That the much greater extent of the United States than of
the British territories, destroys real reciprocity in the privileges
granted by this article, giving, in fact, far greater advantages
than, are received. These suggestions will be discussed in the
order in which they are here stated: —

1. It is true, that the country of the Hudson's Bay company
is not well defined. Their charter, granted in 1670, gives them
"the sole trade and commerce of and to all the seas, bays,
streights, creeks, lakes, rivers and sounds, in whatsoever latitude
they shall be, that lie within the entrance of the streights com-
monly called Hudson's Streights, together with all the lands,
countries, and territories, upon the coasts and confines of the said

jEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. ^67

seas, streigtits, bays, &c, which are now actually possessed by any of
our subjects, or by the subjects of any other Christian prince or state."
To ascertain their territorial limits, according to charter, it
would be necessary to know what portion of country, at the time
of the grant, was actually possessed by the subjects of Great
Britain, or of some other Christian prince or state ; but though
this be not known, the general history of the country, as to set-
tlement, will demonstrate, that it could not have extended far
westward, certainly not to that region which is the scene of trade
in furs, commonly called the north-west trade, carried on by the
Canada company from Canada ; the possession of which, as far
as possession exists, is recent. We learn from a traveller who
has lately visited that region, that one of this company's establish-
ments is in lat. 56, 9, N. long. 117, 43, W., that is, about 20 de-
grees of longitude westward of the Lake of the Woods ; and it
is generally understood, that the entire scene of the trade of this
company is westward of the limits of the Hudson's Bay com-
pany.

Canada, on the north, is bounded by the territories of the Hud-
son's Bay company. This is admitted by the treaty of Utrecht,
and established by the act of parliament in 1774, commonly
called the Quebec act. The treaty of Utrecht provides for the
settlement of the boundaries by commissioners. I have not been
able to trace whether the line was ever actually so settled ; but
several maps lay down a line as the one settled by the treaty
of Utrecht, which runs north of the Lake of the Woods.

In a case thus situated, the United States will justly claim,
under the article, access to all that country, the trade of which
is now carried on through Canada. This will result both from
the certainty that there were no actual possessions, at the date
of the charter, so far interior, and from the fact of the trade being
carried on through a different channel, by a different company,
under the superintendence and protection of a different govern-
ment, that of Canada. It may be asked, why was the article
embarrassed by the exception of the country of the Hudson's
Bay company ? The answer is this, that the charter of this com-
pany gives to it a monopoly within its limits, and, therefore, a

268 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

right to trade there could not have been granted, with propriety,
to a foreign power, by treaty. It is true that it has been ques-
tioned, whether this monopoly was valid against British subjects,
seeing that the charter had not been confirmed by act of parlia-
ment. But besides that this doubt has been confined to British
subjects, it would appear, that, in fact, the company has enjoyed
the monojH.lv granted by its charter, even against them, and with
at least the implied approbation of parliament. In the year 1749,
petitions were preferred to the House of Commons, by different
trading towns in England, for rescinding the monopoly, and
opening the trade. An inquiry was instituted by the house. The
report of its committee was favorable to the conduct ane} preten-
sions of the company, and against the expediency of opening the
trade; and the business terminated there.

This circumstance of there being a monopoly, confirms the
argument drawn from the fact, that the north-west trade is car-
ried on through Canada by the Canada company; a decisive pre-
sumption, thai the scene of that trade is not within the country
of the Hudson's Bay company, and is, consequently, within the
operation of the privilege granted to us.

Though it will be partly a digression, I cannot forbear, in this
place, to notice some observations of Cato, in his 10th number.
After stating, that in 1784 the peltry from Canada sold in Lon-
don for .£230,000 sterling, he proceeds to observe, that, excluding
the territories of the Hudson's Bay company, nine-tenths of this
trade is within the limits of the United States; and though, with
studied ambiguity of expression, he endeavors to have it under-
stood, that nine-tenths of the trade which yielded the peltry, that
sold for £280,000 sterling in 1784-, was within our territories. It
is natural to ask, how he has ascertained the limits of the Hud-
son's Bay company (which, at other times, is asserted, by way of
objection to the article, to be altogether indefinite) with so much
exactness as to be able to pronounce what proportion, if any, of
the trade carried on through Canada may have come from that
country, towards the calculation which has led to the conclusion,
that nine-tenths of the whole lies within our limits? The truth
is indubitably and notoriously, that whether any or whatever

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 269

part of the peltry exported from Canada may come from the
country of the Hudson's Bay company, seven-eighths* of the
whole trade which furnishes that peltry, has its source on the
British side of the boundary line. It follows, that if it were even
true, that only one-tenth of the whole lay in that part of the
British territory, which is not of the Hudson's Bay company, in-
asmuch as only one-seventh of it lies within our limits, the result
would be, that the trade, in which we granted an equal privilege,
was to that in which a like privilege is granted to us, as one-
seventh to one-tenth, and not, according to Cato, as nine to one.
This legerdemain, in argument and calculation, is really too frivo-
lous for so serious a subject. Or, to speak more properly, it is
too shocking, by the spirit of deception which it betrays. Cato
has a further observation, with regard to the trade with the
Indians, in the vicinity of the Mississippi, and from that river
into the Spanish territories. The product of all this trade, he
says, must go down the Mississippi, and, but for the stipulation
of the third article, would have been exclusively ours; because,
" by the treaty of Paris, though the British might navigate the
Mississippi, yet they did not own a foot of land upon either of
its banks ; whereas the United States possessing all the Indian
country, in the vicinity of that river and the east bank for many
hundred miles, could, when they pleased, establish factories and
monopolize that commerce." This assertion, with regard to the
treaty of Paris, is in every sense incorrect ; for the seventh article
of that treaty, establishes as a boundary between the dominions
of France and his Britannic majesty, "a line drawn along the
middle of the river Mississippi, from its source to the river Iber-
ville, and from thence by a line drawn along the middle of this
river and the Lakes Maurepas and Pont Chartrain to the sea,"
and cedes to his Britannic majesty all the country on the east
side of the Mississippi. By the treaty of Paris then, his Britannic
majesty owned all, except the town and island of New Orleans,
the territory on the east side of the Mississippi, instead of not
having a foot of land there.

* Some statements rate it between six-eighths and seven-eightb.3.

270 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

What part of this territory does not still belong to him, is a
point not yet settled. The treaty of peace between the United
States and Great Britain, supposes that part will remain to Great
Britain; for one line of boundary between us and her, designated
by that treaty, is a line due west from the Lake of the Woods to
the Mississippi. If, in fact, this river runs far enough, north to be
intersected by such a line, according to the supposition of the last
mentioned treaty, so much of that river, and the land upon it?
as shall be north of the line of intersection, will continue to be
of the dominion of Great Britain. The lately-made treaty, not
abandoning the possibility of this being the case, provides for a
survey to ascertain the fact; and in every event, the intent of
the treaty of peace will require, that some closing line, more or
less direct, shall be drawn from the Lake of the Woods to the
Mississippi. The position, therefore, that Great Britain had no
land or ports on the Mississippi, takes for granted, what is not
ascertained, and of which the contrary is presumed by the treaty
of peace.

The trade with the Indian country on our side of the Missis-
sippi, from the Ohio to the Lake of the Woods (if that river ex-
tends so far north), some fragments excepted, has its present di-
rection through Detroit and Michilimackinac, and is included in
many calculations, heretofore stated, of the proportion which the
Indian trade within our limits, bears to that within the British
limits. Its estimated amount is even understood to embrace the
proceeds of a clandestine trade with the Spanish territories; so
that the new scene suddenly explored by Cato, is old and trodden
ground, the special reference to which cannot vary the results
that have been presented. It is still unquestionably and notori-
ously true, that the fur trade within our limits, bears no propor-
tion to that within the British limits. As to a contingent traffic
with the territories of Spain, each party will be free to pursue it
according to right and opportunity ; each would have, indepen-
dent of the treaty, the facility of bordering territories. The
geography of the best regions of the fur trade, in the Spanish
territories, is too little known, to be much reasoned upon ; and
if the Spaniards, according to their usual policy, incline to ex-

JEr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 271

elude their neighbors, their precautions along the Mississippi will
render the access to it circuitous; a circumstance which makes it
problematical, whether the possession of the opposite bank is, as
to that object, an advantage or not, and whether we may not find
it convenient to be able, under the treaty, to take a circuit
through the British territories.

2. It is upon the suggestion of Great Britain having no ports
on the Mississippi, that the charge of want of reciprocity in the
privileges granted, with regard to the use of that river, is founded.
The suggestion has been shown to be more peremptory than is jus.
tified by facts. Yet it is still true that the ports on our side bear no
proportion to any that can exist on the part of the British, accord-
ing to the present state of territory. It will be examined, in a
subsequent place, how far this disproportion is a proper rule in
the estimate of reciprocity. But let it be observed, in the mean
time, that in judging of the reciprocity of an article, it is to be
taken collectively. If, upon the whole, the privileges obtained
are as valuable as those granted, there is a substantial reciprocity ;
and to this test, upon full and fair examination of the article. I
freely refer the decision. Besides, if the situation of Great Bri-
tain did not permit, in this particular, a precise equivalent, it will
not follow that the grant on our part was improper, unless it can
be shown that it was attended with some inconvenience, injury,
or loss to lis ; a thing which has not been, and I believe cannot be
shown. Perhaps there is a very importantly beneficial side to
this question. The treaty of peace established between us and
Great Britain, a common interest in the Mississippi ; the present
treaty strengthens that common interest. Every body knows that
the use of the river is denied so by Spain, and that it is an indis-
pensable outlet to our western country. Is it an inconvenient
thing to us that the interest of Great Britain has, in this particu-
lar, been more completely separated from that of Spain and more
closely connected with ours?

3. The agreement to forbear to lay duties of entry on peltries,
is completely defensible on the following grounds, viz. : It is the
general policy of commercial nations to exempt raw materials
from duty. This has likewise been the uniform policy of the

272 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

United States ; and it has particularly embraced the article of
peltries, which, by our existing laws, may be imported into any
part of the United States free from duty. The object of this reg-
ulation is the encouragement of manufactures, by facilitating a
cheap supply of raw materials. A duty of entry, therefore, as
to such part of the article as might be worked up at home, would
be prejudicial to our manufacturing interest; as to such part as
might be exported, if the duty was not drawn back, would injure
our commercial interest. But it is the general policy of our laws,
in conformit}' with the practice of other commercial countries, to
draw back and return the duties which are charged upon the im-
portation of foreign commodities. This has reference to the ad-
vancement of the export trade of the country ; so that, with re-
gard to such peltries as should be re-exported, there would be no
advantage to our revenue from having laid a duty of entry. Such
a duty, then, being contrary to our established system and to true
principles, there can be no objection to a stipulation against it.
As to its having the effect of making our country the channel of
the British trade in peltries, this, if true, and it is indeed proba-
ble, could not but promote our interest. A large proportion of
the profits would then necessarily remain with us, to compensate
for transportation and agencies. It is likely, too, that to secure
the fidelity of agents, as is usual, copartnerships would be formed,
of which British capital would be the principal instrument, and
which would throw a still greater proportion of the profits into
our hands. The more we can make our country the entrepot, the
emporium of the trade of foreigners, the more we shall profit.
There is no commercial principle more obvious than this, more
universally agreed, or more generally practised upon, in countries
where commerce is well understood.

4. The fourth of the above enumerated suggestions is an-
swered, in its principal point, by the practice just stated, of draw-
ing back the duties on importation, when articles are re-exported.
This would place the articles, which we should send into the
British territories, exactly upon the same footing, as to duties, with
the same articles imported there from Europe. With regard to
the additional expense of transportation, this is another instance

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 273

of the contradiction of an argument, which has been relied upon
by both sides, which is, that taking the voyage from Europe in
conjunction with the interior transportation, the advantage, upon
the whole, is likely to be in our favor. And it is upon this ag-
gregate transportation that the calculation ought to be made.
With respect to India or Asiatic articles, there is the circumstance
of a double voyage.

5. As to the small population of Canada, which is urged to
depreciate the advantages of the trade with the white inhabitants
of those countries, it is to be observed that this population is not
stationary. If the date of the census be rightly quoted, it was
taken eleven years ago, when there were already 123,082 souls.
It is presumable that this number will soon be doubled ; for it is
notorious that settlement has proceeded for some years with con-
siderable rapidity in Upper Canada ; and there is no reason to
believe that the future progress will be slow. In time to come,
the trade may grow into real magnitude ; but be it more or less
beneficial, it is so much gained by the article ; and so much clear
gain, since it has been shown not to be true that it is counterbal-
anced by a sacrifice in the fur trade.

6. With regard to the supposed danger of smuggling, in the
intercourse permitted by this article, it is very probable it will be
found less than if it were prohibited. Entirely to prevent trade
between bordering territories is a very arduous, perhaps an im-
practicable task. If not authorized, so much as is carried on
must be illicit ; and it may be reasonably presumed that the ex-
tent of illicit trade will be much greater in that case, than where
an intercourse is permitted, under the usual regulations and
guards. In the last case, the inducement to it is less, and such as
will only influence persons of little character or principle, while
every fair trader is, from private interest, a sentinel to the laws ;
in the other case, all are interested to break through the barriers
of a rigorous and apparently unkind prohibition. This consid-
eration has probably had its weight with our government in
opening a communication through Lake Champlain with Canada;
of the principle of which regulation, the treaty is only an exten-
sion.

G 18

274 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

7. The pretended inequality of the article, as arising from the
greater extent of the United States than of the British territories,
is one of those fanciful positions which are so apt to haunt the
brains of visionary politicians. Traced through all its conse-
quences, it would terminate in this, that a great empire could
never form a treaty of commerce with a small one ; for, to equal-
ize advantages according to the scale of territory, the small state
must compensate for its deficiency in extent, by a greater quan-
tum of positive privilege, in proportion to the difference of extent,
which would give the larger state the monopoly of its trade. Ac-
cording to this principle, what wretched treaties have we made
with France, Sweden, Prussia, and Holland ! For our territories
exceed in extent those of either of these powers. How immense
the sacrifice in the case of Holland ! for the United States are
one hundred times larger than the United Provinces.

But how are we sure that the extent of the United States is
greater than the territories of Great Britain on our continent?
We know that she has pretensions to extend to the Pacific Ocean,
and to embrace a vast wilderness, incomparably larger than the
United States, and we are told, as already mentioned, that her
trading establishments now actually extend beyond the 56th de-
gree of north latitude, and 117th degree of west longitude.

Shall we be told (shifting the original ground) that not extent
of territory, but extent of population is the measure ? Then how
great is the advantage which we gain in this particular, by the
treaty at large ? The population of Great Britain is to that of the
United States, about two and a half to one : and the comparative
concession by her in the trade between her European dominions
and the United States, must be in the same ratio. When we add
to this the great population of her East India possessions, in which
privileges are granted to us, without any return, how prodigiously
will the value of the treaty be enhanced, according to this new
and extraordinary rule?

But the rule is, in fact, an absurd one, and only merits the
notice which has been taken of it, to exhibit the weak grounds Of
the opposition to the treaty. The great standard of reciprocity
is equal privilege. The adventitious circumstances, which may

JEt.38.] camillus. 275

render it more beneficial to one party than the other, can seldom
be taken into the account, because they can seldom be estimated
with certainty ; the relative extent of country or population, is,
of all others, a most fallacious guide.

The comparative resources and facilities for mutual supply,
regulate the relative utility of a commercial privilege ; and as far
as population is concerned, it may be laid down, as a general rule,
that the smallest population graduates the scale of the trade on
both sides, since it is at once the principal measure of what the
smaller state can furnish to the greater, and of what it can take
from the greater ; or, in other words, of what the greater state
can find a demand for in the smaller state. But this rule, too,
like most general ones, admits of numerous exceptions.

In case of a trade by land and inland navigation, the sphere
of the operation of any privilege can only extend a certain dis-
tance. When the distance to a given point, through a particular
channel, is such that the expense of transportation would render
an article dearer than it could be brought through another chan
nel to the same point, the privilege to carry the article through
that particular channel to such point, becomes of no avail. Thus
the privilege of trading by land or inland navigation from the
British territories on this continent, can procure to that country
no advantage of trade with Princeton in New Jersey, because
supplies can come to it on better terms from other quarters.
Whence we perceive, that the absolute extent of territory or
population of the United States, is no measure of the relative
value of the privileges reciprocally granted by the article under
consideration, and, consequently, no criterion of the real recipro-
city of the article.

The objectors to the treaty have marshalled against this arti-
cle a quaint figure, of which from the use of it in different quar-
ters, it is presumable they are not a little enamoured ; it is this,
that the article enables Great Britain to draw a line of circumval-
lation round the United States. They hope to excite prejudice, by
presenting to the mind the image of a siege, or investment of
the country. If trade be war, they have chosen a most apt
figure ; and we cannot but wonder, how the unfortunate island

276 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

of Great Britain has been able so long to maintain her indepen-
dence amidst the beleaguering efforts of the number of nations
with whom she has been imprudent enough to form treaties of
commerce; and who, from her insular situation, have it in their
power to beset and hem her in on all sides. How lucky it is for
the United States, that at least one side is covered by Spain, and
that this formidable line of circumvallation cannot be completely
perfected ! or rather how hard driven must those be, who are
obliged to call to their aid auxiliaries so preposterous !

Can any good reason be given, why one side of a country
should not be accessible to foreigners, for purposes of trade,
equally with another? Might not the cultivators on the side
from which they were excluded, have cause to complain, that the
carriage of their productions was subject to an increased charge,
by a monopoly of the national navigation ; while the cultivators
in other quarters enjoyed the benefit of a competition between
that and foreign navigation ? and might not all the inhabitants
have a right to demand a reason, why their commerce should be
less open and free, than that of other parts of the country ? Will
privileges of trade extend the line of territorial circumvallation ?
Will not the extent of contiguous British territory remain the
same, whether the communications of trade are open or shut ?
By opening them, may we not rather be said to make so many
breaches in the wall, or intrenchment of this newly-invented
circumvallation? if indeed it be not enchanted!

The argument upon this article has hitherto turned, as to the
trade with the white inhabitants of the British territories, on Euro-
pean and East India goods. But there can be no doubt that a
mutually-beneficial commerce in native commodities ought to be
included in the catalogue of advantages. Already there is a
useful interchange of certain commodities, which time and the
progress of settlement and resources cannot fail to extend. It is
most probable, too, that a considerable part of the productions
of the British territories will find the most convenient channel to
foreign markets through us ; which, as far as it regards the inter-
est of external commerce, will yield little less advantage, than if
they proceeded from our own soil or industry. It is evident, in

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 277

particular, that as far as this shall be the case, it will prevent a
great part of the competition with our commodities which would
exist, if those productions took other routes to foreign markets.

In considering the subject, on the side of a trade in home
commodities, it is an important reflection, that the United States
are much more advanced in industrious improvement, than the
British territories. This will give us a material and growing
advantage. While their articles of exchange with us will essen-
tially consist in the products of agriculture and of mines, we
shall add to these manufactures of various and multiplying kinds,
serving to increase the balance in our favor.

In proportion as the article is viewed on an enlarged plan and
permanent scale, its importance to us magnifies. Who can say
how far British colonization may spread southward and down the
west side of the Mississippi, northward and westward into the
vast interior regions towards the Pacific Ocean? Can we view
it as a matter of indifference, that this new world is eventually
laid open to our enterprise, to an enterprise seconded by the im-
mense advantage already mentioned, of a more improved state
of industry ? Can we be insensible, that the precedent furnishes
us with a cogent and persuasive argument to bring Spain to a
similar arrangement? And can we be blind to the great interest
we have, in obtaining a free communication with all the territo-
ries that environ our country, from the St. Mary's to the St. Croix ?

In this large view of the subject, the fur trade which has
made a very prominent figure in the discussion, becomes a point
scarcely visible. Objects of great variety and magnitude, start
up in perspective, eclipsing the little atoms of the day, and pro-
mising to grow and mature with time.

The result of the whole is, that the United States make, by
the third article of the treaty, a good bargain — that with regard
to the fur trade, with equality of privileges and superior advan-
tages of situation, we stake one against seven, or at most one against
six — that as to the trade in European and East Indian goods and in
home productions, we make an equal stake with some advantages
of situation — that we open an immense field of future enterprise,
— that we avoid embarrassments and dangers ever attendant on

278 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

an artificial and prohibitory policy, which, in reference to the
Indian nations, was particularly difficult and hazardous — and that
we secure those of a natural and liberal policy, and give the fair-
est chances for good neighborhood between the United States and
the bordering British territories, and consequently of good under-
standing with Great Britain, conducing to the security of our peace.
Experience, no doubt, will demonstrate that the horrid spectres
which have been conjured up, are fictions ; and if it should even
be slow to realize the predicted benefits (for time will be requisite
to give permanent causes their due effect in controlling temporary
circumstances), it will at last prove that the predicted evils are
chimeras and cheats.

Camillus.

NO. XIII.

1795.
The fourth and fifth articles of the treaty, from similarity of
object, will naturally be considered together. The fourth, recit-
ing a doubt, " whether the river Mississippi extends so far north-
westward, as to be intersected by a line drawn due west from the
Lake of the Woods, in the manner mentioned by the treaty of
peace," agrees, that measures shall be taken in concert between
the two governments, to make a joint survey of that river, from
a degree of latitude below the falls of St. Anthony, to the princi-
pal source or sources thereof, and of the parts adjacent thereto ;
and that if in the result it should appear that the said river
would not be intersected by such a line as above mentioned, the
two parties will proceed by amicable negotiation, to regulate the
boundary line in that quarter, as well as all other points to be
adjusted between them, according to justice and mutual conve-
nience, and the intent of the treaty of peace. The fifth, reciting
that doubts have arisen, what river was truly intended under the
name of the river St. Croix, mentioned in the treaty of peace,
and forming a part of the boundary therein described, provides
that the ascertainment of the point shall be referred to three

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 279

commissioners, to be appointed thus : one to be named by his
Britannic majesty, another by the President of the United States,
with the advice and consent of the Senate, the third by these
two, if they can agree in the choice ; but if they cannot agree,
then each of them to name a person, and out of the persons
named, one drawn by lot in their presence to be the third com-
missioner. These commissioners are to meet at Halifax, with
power to adjourn to any place or places they may think proper
— are to be sworn to examine and decide the question according
to the evidence Avhich shall be laid before them by both parties —
and are to pronounce their decision, which is to be conclusive^
by a written declaration under their hands and seals, containing a
description of the river, and particularly the latitude and longi-
tude of its mouth and of its source.

These articles, though they have been adjusted with critical
propriety, have not escaped censure. They have even in one
instance been severely reprobated, as bringing into question,
things about which there was no room for any — and which a
bare inspection of the map was sufficient to settle.

With regard to the Mississippi, there is no satisfactory evi-
dence that it has ever been explored to its source. It is even
asserted, that it has never been ascended beyond the 45th degree
of north latitude, about a degree above the falls of St. Anthony.
Fadeus's map in 1793, will serve as a specimen of the great un-
certainty which attends this matter. It notes that the river had
not been ascended beyond the degree of latitude just mentioned,
and exhibits three streams, one connected with the Marshy Lake
in that latitude, another with the White Bear Lake near the 46th
degree, and the third with the Red Lake in the 47th degree ; de-
nominating each of the two first, " the Mississippi by conjecture,''
and the last, " Eed Lake River, or Laboutan's Mississippi," — all
of them falling considerably short in their northern extent, of
the Lake of the Woods, which is placed as high as the fiftieth de-
gree of north latitude. Thus stands this very clear and certain
point, which, we are told, it was disgraceful on the part of our
envoy to have suffered to be brought into question.

There is, however, a specific topic of blame of the article

280 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

which has greater plausibility. It is this, that it does not finally
settle the question, but refers the adjustment of the closing line
to future negotiation, in case it should turn out that the river
does not stretch far enough north to be intersected by an east
and west line from the Lake of the Woods. I answer, that the
arrangement is precisely such as it ought to have been. It would
have been premature to provide a substitute till it was ascertain-
ed that it was necessary. This could only be done by an actual
survey. A survey is therefore provided for and will be made at
the joint expense of the two countries.

That survey will not only determine whether a substitute be
requisite or not; but it will furnish data for judging what sub-
stitute is proper, and most conformable to the true intent of the
treaty. Without the data which it will afford, any thing that
could have been done, would have been too much a leap in the
dark. National acts, especially on the important subject of
boundary, ought to be bottomed on a competent knowledge of
circumstances. It ought to be clearly understood how much is
retained, how much is relinquished. Had our envoy proceeded
on a different principle, if what he had agreed to had turned
out well, it would have been regarded as the lucky result of an
act of supererogation. If it had proved disadvantageous, it
would have been stigmatized as an act of improvidence and
imprudence.

The strong argument for having settled an alternative is the
avoiding of future dispute. But what alternative could have been
agreed upon, which might not have bred controversy? The
closing line must go directly or indirectly to the Mississippi —
which of the streams reputed or conjectured to be such, above
the falls of St. Anthony, is best entitled to be so considered ? To
what known point was the line to be directed? How was that
point to be identified with adequate certainty? The difficulty of
answering these questions, will evince that the danger of contro-
versy might have been increased by an impatience to avoid it,
and by anticipating, without the necessary lights, an adjustment
which they ought to direct.

The facts with regard to the river St. Croix, are these : the

JEt. 38.

CAMILLUS. 281

question is, which of two rivers is the true St. Croix ? The
dispute concerning it is as old as the French possession of Nova
Scotia. France set up one river ; Great Britain another. The
point was undecided when the surrender of Nova Scotia by the
former to the latter, put an end to the question as between those
parties. It was afterwards renewed between the colonies of
Nova Scotia and Massachusetts Bay, which last, in the year 1762,
appointed commissioners to ascertain, in conjunction with com-
missioners which might be appointed by the province of Nova
Scotia, the true river, but no final settlement of the matter ensued.

The treaty of peace gives us for one boundary, the river St.
Croix, but without designating it. Hence it has happened, that
not long after the peace was concluded, the question, which had
been before agitated between France and Great Britain, and be-
tween the provinces of Massachusetts and Nova Scotia, was re-
vived between the State of Massachusetts and that province, and
it has ever since continued a subject of debate.

A mode of settling the dispute was under the consideration
of Congress in the year 1785; and powers were given to our
then minister at the court of London, to adjust the affair, but
nothing was concluded. And we learn from a letter of Mr. Jef-
ferson to Mr. Hammond, dated the 15th December, 1791, that
it then also engaged the attention of our government ; that
the ascertaining of the point in dispute was deemed a matter
of " present urgency," and that it had before been the subject of
application from the United States to the government of Great
Britain.

It is natural to suppose, that a dispute of such antiquity be-
tween such different parties, is not without colorable foundation
on either side : at any rate, it was essential to the preservation of
peace that it should be adjusted.

If one party could not convince the other by argument, of the
superior solidity of its pretensions, I know of no alternative but
arbitration or war. Will any one pretend that honor required
us in such a case to go to war, or that the object was of a nature
to make it our interest to refer it to that solemn, calamitous, and
precarious issue ? No rational man will answer this question in

282 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

the affirmative. It follows, that an arbitration was the proper
course, and that our envoy acted rightly in acceding to this ex-
pedient. It is one, too, not without precedents among nations,
though it were to be wished, for the credit of human modera-
tion, that they were more frequent.

Is there any good objection to the mode of the arbitration ?
It seems impossible that any one more fair or convenient could
have been devised, and it is recommended by its analogy to what
is common among individuals.

What the mode is, has been already detailed, and need not
be repeated here. It is objected, that too much has been left to
chance ; but no substitute has been offered which would have
been attended with less casualty. The fact is, that none such
can be offered. Conscious of this, those who make the objec-
tion have not thought fit to give an opportunity of comparison
by proposing a substitute. What is left to chance ? Not that
there shall be a final decision ; for this is most effectually pro-
vided for. It is not only positively stipulated that commission-
ers, with full and definitive power, shall be appointed, but an ul-
timate choice is secured, by referring, in the last resort, to a de-
cision ly lot, what it might not be practicable to decide by agree-
ment. This is the ne plus ultra of precaution. Is it that this
reference to lot leaves it too uncertain of what character or dis-
position the third commissioner may be ? If this be not rather
a recommendation of the fairness of the plan, how was it to be re-
medied ? Could it have been expected of either of the parties, to
leave the nomination to the other? Certainly not. Would it
have been advisable to have referred the ultimate choice to some
other state or government? Where would one have been found,
in the opinion of both parties, sufficiently impartial? On which
side would there have been the greatest clanger of a successful
employment of undue influence ? Is it not evident that this ex-
pedient would have added to equal uncertainty, as to character
and disposition, other casualties and more delay? Should it
have been left to the two commissioners, appointed by the par-
ties to agree at all events ? It might have been impossible for
them to come to an agreement, and then the whole plan of set-

jEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 283

tlement would have been frustrated. Would the sword have
been a more certain arbiter? Of all uncertain things, the issues
of war are the most uncertain. What do objections of this
kind prove, but that there are persons resolved to object at all
events ?

The submission of this question to arbitration has been repre-
sented as an eventual dismemberment of empire, which, it has
been said, cannot rightly be agreed to, but in a case of extreme
necessity. This rule of extreme necessity is manifestly only ap-
plicable to a cession or relinquishment of a part of a country,
held by a clear and acknowledged title ; not to a case of disputed
boundary.

It would be a horrid and destructive principle, that nations
could not terminate a dispute about the title to a particular par-
cel of territory, by amicable agreement, or by submission to
arbitration as its substitute ; but would be under an indispensable
obligation to prosecute the dispute by arms, till real danger to
the existence of one of the parties should justify, by the plea of
extreme necessity, a surrender of its pretensions.

Besides, the terms in which writers lay down the rule, and
the reason of it, will instruct us that where it does apply, it re-
lates not to territory as such, but to those who inhabit it, on the
principle that the social compact entitles all the members of the
society to be protected and maintained by the common strength
in their rights and relations as members. It is understood, that
the territory between the two rivers in dispute, is either unin-
habited, or inhabited only by settlers under the British. If this
be so, it obviates all shadow of difficulty on our side. But be it
as it may, it would be an abuse of the rule, to oppose it to the
amicable adjustment of an ancient controversy, about the title to
a particular tract of country, depending on a question of fact,
whether this or that river be the one truly intended by former
treaties between the parties. The question is not, in this case,
Shall we cede a part of our country to another power? It is
this — To whom does this tract of country truly belong? Should
the weight of evidence be on the British side, our faith, pledged
by the treaty, would demand from us an acquiescence in their

284 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 38.

claim. Not being able to agree in opinion on this point, it was
most equitable and most agreeable to good faith to submit it to
an impartial arbitration.

It has been asked, among other things, whether the United
States were competent to the adjustment of the matters without
the special consent of the State of Massachusetts. Eeserving a
more particular solution of this question to a separate discussion
of the constitutionality of the treaty, I shall content myself with
remarking here, that our treaty of peace with Great Britain, by
settling the boundaries of the United States without the specific
consent or authority of any State, assumes the principle, that the
government of the United States was of itself competent to the
regulation of boundary with foreign powers — that the actual
government of the Union has even more plenary authority with
regard to treaties, than was possessed under the confederation,
and that acts, both of the former and of the present government,
presuppose the competency of the national authority to decide
the question in the very instance under consideration. I am in-
formed, also, that the State of Massachusetts has, by repeated
acts, manifested a corresponding sense on the subject.

A reflection not unimportant occurs here. It was, perhaps,
in another sense than has been hitherto noticed, a point of pru-
dence in both governments to refer the matter in dispute to ar-
bitration. If one had yielded to the pretensions of the other, it
could hardly have failed to draw upon itself complaints, and cen-
sures, more or less extensive, from quarters immediately inter-
ested or affected.

Camillus.

NO. XIV.

1795.
The sixth article stipulates compensation to British creditors
for losses and damages which may have been sustained by them,
in consequence of certain legal impediments, which, since the

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 285

treaty of peace with Great Britain, are alleged to have obstructed
the recovery of debts bona fide contracted with them before the
peace.

To a man who has a due sense of the sacred obligation of a
just debt, a proper conception of the pernicious influence of laws
which infringe the rights of creditors, upon morals, upon the
general security of property,, upon public as well as private cre-
dit, upon the spirit and principles of good government ; who has
an adequate idea of the sanctity of the national faith, explicitly
pledged — of the ignominy attendant upon a violation of it in so
delicate a particular as that of private pecuniary contracts — of
the evil tendency of a precedent of this kind to the political and
commercial interests of the nation generally — every law which
has existed in this country, interfering with the recovery of the
debts in question, must have afforded matter of serious regret
and real affliction. To such a man, it must be among the most
welcome features of the present treaty, that it stipulates repara-
tion for the injuries which laws of that description may have
occasioned to individuals, and that, as far as is now practicable,
it wipes away from the national reputation the stain which they
have cast upon it. He will regard it as a precious tribute to jus-
tice, and as a valuable pledge for the more strict future obser-
vance of our public engagements ; and he would deplore as an
ill-omened symptom of the depravation of public opinion, the
success of the attempts which are making to render the article
unacceptable to the people of the United States. But of this
there can be no danger. The spontaneous sentiments of equity,
of a moral and intelligent people, will not fail to sanction, with
their approbation, a measure which could not have been resisted
without inflicting a new wound upon the honor and character of
the country.

Let those men who have manifested by their actions, a willing
disregard of their own obligations as debtors — those who secretly
hoard, or openly and unblushingly riot on the spoils of plundered
creditors, let such men enjoy the exclusive and undivided satis-
faction of arraigning and condemning an act of national justice,
in which they may read the severest reproach of their ini-

286 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

quitous principles and guilty acquisitions. But let not the peo-
ple of America tarnisli their honor by participating in that con-
demnation, or by shielding with their favorable opinion, the
meretricious apologies which are offered for the measures that
produced the necessity of reparation.

The recapitulation of some facts will contribute to a right
judgment of this part of the treaty. .

It is an established principle of the laws of nations, that, on
the return of peace between nations which have been at war, a
free and undisturbed course shall be given to the recovery of
private debts on both sides* In conformity to this principle,
the 4th article of the treaty of peace between the United States
and Great Britain, expressly stipulates, " that creditors on either
side shall meet with no lawful impediment to the recovery of the
full value in sterling money of all bona fide debts theretofore
contracted."

Two instances of the violation of this article have been
already noticed, with a view to another point ; one relating to
certain laws of the State of Virginia, passed prior to the peace,
which, for several years after it, appears to have operated to
prevent the legal pursuit of their claims by British creditors.
Another, relating to a law of the State of South Carolina, which
suspended the recovery of the debts for nine months, and after
that period permitted the recovery only in four years' instal-
ments.

But these were not all the instances ; there were other laws
of South Carolina prolonging the instalments, and obliging the
creditors to receive in payment the property of debtors at
appraised values ; and there were laws of Khode Island, New
Jersey, North Carolina, and Georgia, making paper money a
legal tender for the debts of those creditors; which, it is known,
sustained a very great depreciation in every one of those States.
These very serious and compulsory interferences with the rights
of the creditors, have received from Decius, the soft appellation
of a modification of the recovery of British debts. Does he

* Grotius, b. iii. c. xx. s. xvi.

Mi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 287

expect to make us believe, by this smooth phrase, that the right
to recover the full value of a debt in sterling money, is satisfied
by the obligation to take as a substitute, one half, one third, or
one fourth of the real value in paper ?

It must necessarily have happened, that British creditors
have sustained, from the operation of the different acts alluded
to, losses more or less extensive, which the mere removal of the
legal impediments which occasioned them could not repair.
In many instances, the losses must have actually accrued and
taken their full effect : in others, where no proceedings may
have been had, the lapse of so many years must have created
inabilities to pay, in debtors who were originally competent, who
might have been made to pay, had th^re been a free course of
justice.

The removal of the impediments, therefore, by opening of
the courts of justice, was not an adequate satisfaction. It could
not supersede the obligation of compensation for losses which
had irretrievably accrued by the operation of the legal impe-
diments, while they continued in force. The claim for this was
still open on the part of Great Britain, and still to be adjusted
between the two nations.

The excuse, that these laws were retaliations for prior in-
fractions of treaty by Great Britain, was in no view an answer
to the claim.*

In the first place, as has already been proved, the fact of such
prior infractions was too doubtful to be finally insisted upon,
and was, after a fruitless effort to obtain the acquiescence of the
other party, properly and necessarily waved ; so that it could
not serve as a plea against reparation.

* It may not be improper to observe, that this excuse implies a palpable viola-
tion of the then Constitution of the United States. The confederation vested the
powers of war and of treaty in the Union. It therefore lay exclusively with Con-
gress to pronounce, whether the treaty was or was not violated by Great Britain,
and what should be the satisfaction. No State, individually, had the least right to
meddle with the question, and the having done it was an usurpation on the con-
stitutional authority of the United States.

It might be shown, on a similar principle, that all confiscations or sequestrations
of British debts, by particular States, during the war, were also unconstitutional.

288 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

In the second place, if that fact had been indubitable, the
species of retaliation was unwarrantable. It will be shown, when
we come to discuss the 10th article, that the debts of private
individuals are in no case a proper object of reprisals ; that in-
dependent of the treaty, the meddling with them was a violation
of the public faith and integrity ; and that, consequently, it was
due as much to our own public faith and integrity, as to the in-
dividual who had suffered, to make reparation. It was an act
demanded by the justice, probity, and magnanimity of the
nation.

In the third place, it was essential to reciprocity in the ad-
justment of the disputes which had existed concerning the treaty
of peace. When we claimed the reinstatement and execution of
the article with regard to the posts, it was just that we should
consent to the reinstatement and execution of the article with
regard to debts. If the obstruction of the recovery of debts was
the equivalent by way of retaliation for the detention of the
posts, we could not expect to have restitution of the thing with-
held, and to retain the equivalent for it likewise. The dilemma
was, to be content with the equivalent, and abandon the thing ;
or to recover the thing, and abandon the equivalent : to have
both was more than we could rightly pretend. The reinstate-
ment of the article, with regard to the debts, necessarily included
two things, the removal of legal impediments as to the future
recovery ; compensation for past losses by reason of those im-
pediments. The first had been effected by the new Constitution
of the United States ; the last is promised by the treaty.

Did our envoy reply, that the reinstatement of the article
with regard to the posts included likewise compensation for their
detention ? Was it an answer to this, destitute of reason, that
our loss, by the detention of the posts, which resolved itself
essentially into the uncertain profits of a trade that might have
been carried on, admitted of no satisfactory rule of computation ;
while the principal and interest of private debts afforded a familiar
standard for the computation of losses upon them : that, never-
theless, while this was the usual, and must be the admitted
standard, it is an adequate one in cases where payment is pro-

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 289

tracted beyond the allowed term of credit ; since the mere in-
terest of money does not countervail among- merchants, the
profits of its employment in trade, and still less the derangements
of credit and fortune, which frequently result to creditors, from
procrastinations of payment; and that the final damage to Greal
Britain, in these two particulars, for which no provision could be
made, might well exceed any losses to us by the detention of the
posts ?

In the last place, the compensation stipulated was a sine qua
non with Great Britain, of the surrender of the posts, and the
adjustment of the controversy which had subsisted between the
two countries. The making it such may be conceived to have
been dictated more by the importance of the precedent, than by
the quantum of the sum in question. We shall easily under-
stand this, if we consider how much the commercial capital of
Great Britain is spread over the world. The vast credits she
is in the habit of extending to foreign countries, renders it to
her an essential point to protect those credits by all the sanctions
in her power. She cannot forbear to contend at every hazard
against precedents of the invasion of the rights of her merchants
and for retribution where any happen. Hence, it is always to be
expected, that she will be peculiarly inflexible on this point :
and that nothing short of extreme necessity can bring her to
relax in an article of policy, which perhaps not less than any
other, is a necessary prop of the whole system of her political
economy.

It was, therefore, to have been foreseen that whenever our
controversy with Great Britain was adjusted, compensation for
obstructions to the recovery of debts would make a part of the ad-
justment. The option lay between compensation, relinquishment
of the posts, or war. Our envoy is entitled to the applause of all
good men, for preferring the first. The extent of the compensa-
tion can, on no possible scale, compare with the immense perma-
nent value of the posts, or with the expenses of war. The sphere
of the interferences has been too partial to make the sum of til,'
compensation, in any event, a \ery serious object; and as to a
war, a conscientious or virtuous mind could never endure the
G 19

2l,)0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

thoughts of seeing the country involved in its calamities, to get
rid of an act of justice to individuals, whose rights, in contempt
of public faith, had been violated.

Having reviewed the general considerations which justify the
stipulation of compensation, it will be proper to examine if the
plan upon which it is to be made, is unexceptionable.

This plan contains the following features: 1. The cases pro-
vided for are those "where losses and damages occasioned by the
operation of lawful impediments (which since the peace have de-
layed the full recovery of British debts, bona fide contracted before
the peace, and still owing to the creditors, and have impaired and les-
sened the value and security thereof) cannot ?ioio, for whatever rea-
son, be actually obtained in the ordinary course of justice. 2. There
is an express exception out of this provision, of all the cases in
which losses and damages have been occasioned by such insolvency
of the debtors, or other causes, as ivould equally have operated to pro-
duce them, if no legal impediment had existed, or by the manifest de-
lay, or negligence, or toilful omission, of the claimants. 3. The
amount of the losses and damages, for which compensation is to
be made, is to be ascertained by five commissioners to be appointed
as follows: two by his Britannic majesty, two by the President
with the advice and consent of the Senate, the fifth by the unan-
imous voice of these four, if they can agree ; if they cannot agree,
then to be taken by lot out of two persons, one of whom to be
named by the two British commissioners, the other by the two
American commissioners. 4. These five commissioners, thus ap-
pointed, are, before they proceed to the execution of their trust,
to take an oath for its faithful discharge. Three of them to con-
stitute a board ; but there must be present one of the two com-
missioners named on each side, and the fifth commissioner. De-
cisions to be made by majority of voices of those present. They
are first to meet at Philadelphia, but may adjourn from place to
place as they see cause. 5. Eighteen months after the commis-
sioners make a board, are assigned for receiving applications ; but
the commissioners, in particular cases, may extend the term for
any further term, not exceeding six months. 6. The commission-
ers are empowered to take into consideration all claims, whether

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 291

of principal or interest, or balances of principal or interest, and
to determine them according to the merits and circumstances
thereof, and as justice and equity shall appear to them to require —
to examine persons on oath or affirmation, and to receive in evi-
dence, depositions, books, papers, or copies, or extracts thereof,
either according to the legal forms existing in the two countries,
or according to a mode to be devised by them. 7. Their award
is to be conclusive; and the United States are to cause the sum
awarded in each case to be paid in specie to the creditor without
deduction, and at such time and place as shall have been awarded;
but no payment to be required sooner than twelve months from
the day of the exchange of the ratifications of the treaty.

This provision fur ascertaining the compensation to be made,
while it is ample, is also well guarded.

It is confined to debts contracted before the peace, and still
owing to the creditors. It embraces only the cases of loss or
damage in consequence of legal impediments to the recovery of
those debts which will exclude all cases of voluntary compromise,
and can include none, where the laws have allotted a free course
to justice. It can operate in no instance where, at present, the
ordinary course of justice is competent to full relief, and the debtor
is solvent ; nor in any, where insolvency or other cause would
have operated to produce the loss or damage, if no legal impedi-
ment had existed, or where it had been occasioned by the wilful
delay, negligence, or omission of the creditor.

If it be said that the commissioners have nevertheless much
latitude of discretion, and that in the exercise of it they may
transgress the limits intended, the answer is, that the United
States, though bound to perform what they have stipulated with
good faith, would not be bound to submit to a manifest abuse of
authority by the commissioners. Should they palpably exceed
their commission, or abuse their trust, the United States may jus-
tifiably, though at their peril, refuse compliance. For example,
if they should undertake to award upon a debt contracted since
the peace, there could be no doubt that their award would be a
nullity. So likewise there may be other plain cases of miscon-
duct, which, in honor and conscience, would exonerate the United

292 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

States from performance. It is only incumbent upon them to act,
bona fide, and as they act at their peril, to examine well the sound-
ness of the ground on which they proceed.

With regard to the reference to commissioners to settle the
quantum of the compensation to be made, this course was dic-
tated by the nature of the case. The tribunals of neither country
were competent to retrospective adjustment of losses and dam-
ages, in many cases which might require it. It is for this very
reason of the incompetency of the ordinary tribunals to do com-
plete justice, that a special stipulation of compensation, and a spe-
cial mode of obtaining it, became necessary. In constituting a
tribunal to liquidate the quantum of reparation, in the case of a
breach of treaty, it was natural and just to devise one likely to be
more certainly impartial than the established courts of either
party. Without impeaching the integrity of those courts, it was
morally impossible that they should not feel a bias towards the
nation to which they belonged, and for that very reason they were
unfit arbitrators. In the case of the spoliations of our property,
we should undoubtedly have been unwilling to leave the adjust-
ment in the last resort to the British courts ; and by parity of rea-
son, they could not be expected to refer the liquidation of com-
pensation in the case of the debts to. our courts. To have pressed
this would have been to weaken our argument for a different
course in regard to the spoliations. We should have been puz-
zled to find a substantial principle of discrimination.

If a special and extraordinary tribunal was to be constituted,
it was impracticable to contrive a more fair and equitable plan for
it than that which has been adopted. The remarks on the mode
of determining the question respecting the river St. Croix, apply
in full force here, and would render a particular comment super-
fluous.

To the objection of the Charleston committee, that the article
erects a tribunal unknown to our constitution, and transfers to
commissioners the cognizance of matters appertaining to Ameri-
can courts and juries, the answer is simple and conclusive. The
tribunals established by the Constitution do not contemplate a
case between nation and nation arising upon a breach of treaty,

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 293

and are inadequate to the cognizance of it. Could either of them
hold plea of a suit of Great Britain plaintiff, against the United
States, defendant? The case, therefore, required the erection or
constitution of a new tribunal ; and it was most likely to promote
equity to pass by the courts of both the parties.

The same principle contradicts the position that there has been
any transfer of jurisdiction from American courts and juries to
commissioners. It is a question not between individual and indi-
vidual, or between our government and individuals, but between
our government and the British government; of course, one in
which our courts and juries have no jurisdiction. There was a
necessity for an extraordinary tribunal to supply the defect of or-
dinary jurisdiction ; and so far is the article from making the
transfer imputed to it, that it expressly excepts the cases in which
effectual relief can be obtained in the ordinary course of justice.

Nations acknowledging no common judge on earth, when they
are willing to submit the question between them to a judicial de-
cision, must of necessity constitute a special tribunal for the pur-
pose. The mode by commissioners, as being the most unexcep-
tionable, has been repeatedly adopted.

I proceed to reply to some other objections which have been
made against the provision contained in this article.

It is charged with affixing a stigma on the national character,
by providing reparation for an infraction, which, if it ever did
exist, has been done away, there being now a free course to the
recovery of British debts in the courts of the United States.

An answer to this objection has been anticipated by some ob-
servations heretofore made. The giving a free course to justice
in favor of British creditors, which has been effected by the new
Constitution of the United States, though it obviates the future
operation of legal impediment, does not retrospectively repair the
losses and damages which may have resulted from their past op-
eration. In this respect, the effects continued, and reparation was
due. To promise it, could fix no stigma on our national charac-
ter. That was done by the acts which created the cause for re-
paration. To make it, was as far as possible to remove tin' Bl igma.

It has been said that the promise of compensation produces

294 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

injustice to those states which interposed no legal impediments to
the recovery of debts, by saddling them with a part of the bur-
den arising from the delinquencies of the transgressing states.
But the burden was before assumed by the treaty of peace. The
article of that treaty, which engaged that there should be no law-
ful impediments to the recovery of debts, was a guarantee by the
United States of justice to the British creditors. It charged them
with the duty of taking care that there was no legal obstacle to
the recovery of the debts of those creditors, and consequently
with a responsibility for any such obstacle which should happen,
and with the obligation of making reparation for it. We must,
therefore, refer to the treaty of peace, not to the last treaty, the
common charge which has been incurred by interference in the
recovery of British debts. The latter only carries into execution
the promise made by the former. It may be added that it is a
condition of the social compact that the nation at large shall make
retribution to foreign nations for injuries done to them by its
members.

It has been observed, that Mr. Jefferson has clearly shown,
that interest in cases like that of British debts, is liable, during
the period of the war, to equitable abatements and deductions;
and that, therefore, the discretion given to the commissioners on
this head ought not to have been as large as it appears in the
article.

Mr. Jefferson has, no doubt, offered arguments of real weight
to establish the position that judges and juries have, and exercise,
a degree of discretion in any article of interest ; and that the
circumstances of our war with Great Britain, afford strong
reasons for abatements of interest. But it was foreign to his pur-
pose, and accordingly he has not attempted, to particularize the
rules which ought to govern in the application of this principle
to the variety of cases in which the question may arise : and he
has himself noted that the practice in different states and in dif-
ferent courts, has been attended with great diversity. Indeed,
admitting the right to abate interest under special circumstances,
in cases in which it is the general rule to allow it, the circum-
stances of each case, are, perhaps, the only true criterion of the

JEr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 295

propriety of an exception. The ])articular nature of the contract,
the circumstances under which it was entered into, the relative
situation of parties, the possibility or not of mutual access ; these
and other things would guide and vary the exercise of the dis<
tion to abate. It was, therefore right to leave the commissioners,
as they are left, in the same situation with judges and juries : —
to act according to the true equity of the several cases or of the
several classes of cases.

Let it be remembered, that the government of Great Britain
has to consult the interests and opinions of its citizens, as well
as the government of the United States those of their citizens.
The only satisfactory course which the former could pursue, in
reference to its merchants, was to turn over the whole question
of interest as well as principal to the commissioners. And as
this was truly equitable, the government of the United States
could make no well-founded opposition to it.

Camillus.

NO. XV.

1795.

It is the business of the seventh article of the treaty, to pro-
vide for two objects : one, compensation to our citizens for inju-
ries to their property, by irregular, or illegal captures, or con-
demnations ; the other, compensation, to British citizens for cap-
tures of their property within the limits and jurisdiction of the
United States, or elsewhere, by vessels originally armed in our
ports, in the cases in which the captured property having come within
our posts and power, there was a neglect to make restitution.

The first object is thus provided for; 1. It is agreed, that in
all cases of irregular and illegal captures or condemnations of the
vessels and other property of citizens of the United States, under
color of authority or commissions from his Britannic majesty, in
which adequate compensation for the losses and damages sus-
tained, cannot, for whatever reason, be actually obtained in the

296 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

ordinary course of justice, full and complete compensation for the
same will be made by the British government to the claimants ; ex-
cept where the loss or damage may have been occasioned by the
manifest delay or negligence, or wilful omission of those claim-
ants. 2. The amount of the losses and damages to be compen-
sated, is to be ascertained by five commissioners, who are to be
appointed in exactly the same manner as those for liquidating
the compensation to British creditors. 3. These commissioners
are to take a similar oath, and to exercise similar powers for the
investigation of claims with those other commissioners : and they
are to decide according to the merits of the several cases, and to
justice, equity, and the laws of nations. 4. The same term of
eighteen months is allowed for the reception of claims, with a
like discretion to extend the term, as in the case of British debts.
5. The award of these commissioners, or of three of them, under
the like guards as in that case, is to be final and conclusive, both
as to the justice of the claims, and to the amount of the compen-
sation. And, lastly, his Britannic majesty is to cause the com-
pensation awarded, to be paid to the claimants in specie, without
deduction, at such times and places, and upon the condition of
such releases or assignments, as the commissioners shall prescribe.

Mutually and dispassionately examined, it is impossible not
to be convinced, that this provision is ample, and ought to be
satisfactory. The course of the discussion will exhibit various
proofs of the disingenousness of the clamors against it; but it
will be pertinent to introduce here one or two samples of it.

It has been alleged, that while the article preceding, and this
article, provide effectually for every demand of Great Britain
against the United States, the provision for this important and
urgent claim of ours is neither explicit nor efficient, nor co-ex-
tensive with the object, nor bears any proportion to the sum-
mary method, adopted for the satisfying of British claims.

This suggestion is every way unfortunate. The plan for satis-
fying our claim, except as to the description of the subject which
varies with it, is an exact copy of that for making compensation
to British creditors. Whoever will take the pains to compare,
will find, that in the leading points, literal conformity is studied;

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 2(.»7

and that in others, the provisions are assimilated by direct refer-
ences; and will discover also this important distinction in favor
of the efficiency and summariness of the provision for our claim
— that while the commissioners are expressly restricted from
awarding payment to British creditors, to be made sooner than
one year after the exchange of ratifications of the treaty, they
are free to award it to be made the very day of their decision,
for the spoliations of our property. As to compensation for
British property, captured Avithin our limits, or by vessels origi-
nally armed within our ports and not restored, which is the only
other British claim that has been provided for, it happens that
this, forming a part of the very article we are considering, is sub-
mitted to the identical mode of relief which is instituted for
making satisfaction to us.

So far, then, is it from being true, that a comparison of the
modes of redress provided by the treaty, for the complaints of
the respective parties, turns to our disadvantage, that the real
state of the case exhibits a substantial similitude, with only one
material difference, and that in our favor ; and, that a strong ar-
gument for the equity of the provisions on each side, is to be
drawn from their close resemblance of each other.

The other suggestion alluded to, and which has been shame-
lessly reiterated, is, that Denmark and Sweden, by pursuing a
more spirited conduct had obtained better terms than the United
States. It is even pretended, that one or both of them had ac-
tually received from Great Britain a gross sum on account — in
anticipation of an ultimate liquidation. In my second number,
the erroneousness of the supposition, that those powers had ob-
tained more than the United States, was intimated ; but the sub-
sequent repetition of the idea, more covertly in print, and very
openly and confidently in conversation, renders expedient an ex-
plicit and peremptory denial of the fact. There never has ap-
peared a particle of evidence to support it; and after challenging
the asserters of it to produce their proof, I aver, that careful in-
quiry, at sources of information, at least as direct and authentic
as theirs, has satisfied me, that the suggestion is wholly unfound-
ed, and that at the time of the conclusion of our treaty with

298 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Great Britain, both Denmark and Sweden were behind us in the
effect of their measures for obtaining reparation.

What are we to think of attempts like these, to dupe and ir-
ritate the public mind? Will any prudent citizen still consent
to follow such blind or such treacherous guides ?

Let us now, under the influence of a calm and candid temper,
without which truth eludes our researches, by a close scrutiny of
the provision, satisfy ourselves, whether it be not really a reason-
able and proper one. But previous to this it is requisite to ad-
vert to a collateral measure, which was also a fruit of the mission
to Great Britain, and which ought to be taken in conjunction
with the stipulations of this article. I refer to the order of the
British king in council, of the 6th of August, 1794, by which
order the door, before shut by lapse of time, is opened to appeals
from the British West India courts of admiralty, to be brought
at any time which shall be judged reasonable by the lords com-
missioners of appeals in prize causes. This, of itself, was no in-
considerable step towards the redress of our grievances ; and it
may be hoped, that with the aid which the government of the
United States has given to facilitate appeals, much relief may
ensue from this measure. It will not be wonderful, if it should
comport with the pride and policy of the British government, by
promoting justice in their courts, to leave as little as possible to
be done by the commissioners.

I proceed now to examine the characteristics of the supple-
mentary provision made by the article, in connection with the
objections to it.

It admits fully and explicitly the principle, that compensation
is to be made for the losses and damages sustained by our citizens,
by irregular or illegal captures, or condemnations of their vessels
and other property, under color of authority (which includes
governmental orders and instructions) or of commissions of his
Britanuic majesty. It is to be observed, that the causes of the
losses and damages are mentioned in the disjunctive, "captors or
condemnations ;" so that damages by captures, which were not
followed by condemnations, are provided for as well as those
where condemnations did follow.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 299

A cavil has been raised on the meaning of the word color,
which, it is pretended, would not reach the cases designed to be
embraced ; because the spoliations complained of, were made, not
merely by color, but actually by virtue of instructions from the
British government.

For the very reason that this subtil and artificial meaning
ascribed to the term, would tend to defeat the manifest general
intent of the main provision of the article, which is plainly to give
reparation for irregular or illegal captures or condemnations of
American property, contrary to the laws of nations — that mean-
ing must be deemed inadmissible.

But in fact, the expression is the most accurate that could
have been used, to signify the real intent of the article. When
we say, a thing was done by color of an authority or commission,
we mean one of three things ; that it was done on the pretence
of a sufficient authority or commission not validly imparted, or on
the pretence of such an authority or commission validly imparted
but abused or misapplied, or on the pretence of an insufficient
authority or commission, regularly, as to form, imparted and ex-
ercised. It denotes a defect of rightful and just authority, whether
emanating from a wrong source, or improperly from a right
source ; whereas the phrase " by virtue of," is most properly ap-
plicable to the valid exercise of a valid authority. But the two
phrases are not unfrequently used as synonymous. Thus, in a
proclamation of the British king, of the 25th of May, 1792, he,
among other things, forbids all his subjects, by virtue or under
color of any foreign commission or letters of reprisals, to disturb,
infest, or damage, the subjects of France.

In whose mouths does the article put the expression ? In
those of citizens of the United States? What must they be
presumed to have meant? Clearly this; that by color of instruc-
tions or commissions of his Britannic majesty, either exercised
erroneously, or issued erroneously, as being contrary to the laws
of nations ; the citizens of the United States had suffered loss and
damage by irregular or illegal captures or condemnations of their
property. What is the standard appealed to, to decide the irreg*
ularity or illegality to be redressed? Expressly the laws of na-

300 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

tions. The commissioners are to decide "according to the merits
of the several cases, to justice, equity, and the laws of nations."
Wherever these laws, as received and practised among nations,
pronounce a capture or condemnation of neutral property to have
been irregular or illegal, though by color of an authority or com-
mission of his Britannic majesty, it would be the duty of the
commissioners to award compensation.

The criticism, however, fails on its own principle, when tested
by the fact. The great source of grievance, intended to be re-
dressed by the article, proceeded from the instruction of the 6th
of November, 1793. That instruction directs the commanders
of ships of war and privateers, to stop and detain all ships laden
with goods, the produce of any colony belonging to France, or
carrying provisions and other supplies for the use of such colony,
and to bring the same, with their cargoes, to legal adjudication in
the British courts of admiralty. These terms, " legal adjudication ,"
were certainly not equivalent, upon any rational construction, to
condemnation. Adjudication means simply, a judical decision,
which might be either to acquit or condemn. Yet the British
West India courts of admiralty appear to have generally acted
upon the term as synonymous with condemnation. In doing this,
they may be truly said, even in the sense of the objection, to
have acted by color, only, of the instruction.

The British cabinet have disavowed this construction of the
West India courts ; and have, as we have seen, by a special act
of interference, opened a door which was before shut to a reversal
of their sentences, by appeal to the courts in England. We find,
also, that the term adjudication is used in the XVIIth article of
our late treaty as synonymous only with judicial decision, accord-
ing to its true import. This, if any thing were wanting, would
render it impossible for the commissioners to refuse redress on
the ground of the condemnations, if otherwise illegal, being
warranted by the pretended sense of the words legal adjudication.
But in reality, as before observed, their commission will be to
award compensation in all cases, in which they are of opinion,
that, according to the established laws of nations, captures or con-
demnations were irregular or illegal, however otherwise author-

.-Et. 38. j CAM ILL US. 30 J

ized ; and this in contempt of the quibbling criticism which has
been so cunningly devised.

2d. The provision under consideration, obliges the British
government, in all cases of illegal captures or condemnations in
which adequate compensation cannot, for whatever reason, be
actually had in the ordinary course of justice, to make full and
complete compensation to the claimants, which is to be paid in
specie to themselves, without deduction, at such times and places
as shall be awarded.

They are not sent for redress to the captors, or obliged to
take any circuitous course for their payment, but are to receive
it immediately from the treasury of Great Britain.

3d. The amount of the compensation in each case is to be
fixed by five commissioners, two appointed by the United States,
two by Great Britain : the fifth by these four, or in case of dis-
agreement, by lot. These commissioners to meet and act in
London.

It seems impossible, as has been observed and shown in the
analogous cases, to imagine a plan for organizing a tribunal
more completely equitable and impartial than this ; while it is
the exact counterpart of the one which is to decide on the claims
of British creditors. Could it have been believed, that so palpa-
ble an error could have been imposed on a town meeting, in the
face of so plain a provision, as to induce it to charge against this
article, that, in a national concern of the United States, redress
was left to British courts of admiralty ? Yet, strange as it may
appear, this did happen even in the truly enlightened town of
Boston. The just pride of that town will not quickly forget,
that it has been so compromitted.

The truth is, that, according to the common usage of nations,
the courts of admiralty of the belligerent parties are the channels
through which the redress of injuries to neutrals is sought. But
Great Britain has been brought to agree to refer all the cases, in
which justice cannot be obtained through those channels, to an
extraordinary tribunal ; in other words, to arbitrators mutually
appointed.

It is here that we find the reparation of the national wrong

302 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

which we had suffered. In admitting the principle of compensa-
tion by the government itself, in agreeing to an extraordinary
tribunal, in the constitution of which the parties have an equal
voice, to liquidate that compensation, Great Britain has virtually
and effectually acknowledged the injury which had been done to
our neutral rights, and has consented to make satisfaction for it.
This was an apology in fact, however it may be in form.

As it regards our honor, this is an adequate, and the only
species usual in similar cases between nations ; pecuniary com-
pensation is the true reparation in such cases — governments are
not apt to go upon their knees to ask pardon of other govern-
ments— Great Britain, in the recent instance of the dispute with
Spain about Nootka Sound, was glad to accept of a like repara-
tion. It merits remark, incidentally, that the instrument, which
settles this dispute, expressly waves, like our treaty, reference to
the merits of the complaints and pretensions of the respective
parties. Is our situation such as to authorize us to pretend to
impose humiliating conditions on other nations !

It is necessary to distinguish between injuries and insults,
which we are too apt to confound. The seizures and spoliations
of our property fall most truly under the former head. The
acts which produced them, embraced all the neutral powers,
were not particularly levelled at us, bore no mark of an intention
to humble us by any peculiar indignity or outrage.

These acts were of June 8th. and of November 6th, 1793.
The seizure of our vessels going with provisions to the dominions
of France, under the first, was put on the double ground of a
war extraordinary in its principle,* and of a construction of the
laws of nations, which, it was said, permitted that seizure ; a con-
struction not destitute of color, and apparently supported by
the authority of Vatel, though, in my opinion, ill founded. It
was accompanied also by compensation for what was taken, and
other circumstances, that evinced a desire to smooth the act.
The indiscriminate confiscation of our property, upon the order

* Though this country has viewed the principle of the war favorably, it is cer-
tain that Europe generally, the neutral powers n >t wholly excepted, has viewed it
in a different light, so that this was not a mere pretence.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 303

of the 6th of November, which was the truly flagrant injury, was
certainly unwarranted by that order (and no secret one has ap-
peared)— and the matter has been so explained by the British
government. It is clear that evils suffered under acts so circum-
stanced, are injuries rather than insults — and are so much the
more manageable as to the species and measure of redress. It
would be Quixotism to assert that we might not honorably accept
in such a case, the pecuniary reparation which has been stipu-
lated.

But it is alleged, in point of interest, it is unsatisfactory —

tedious in the process — uncertain in the event ; that there ought
to have been actual and immediate indemnifications, or at least,
a payment upon account.

A little calm reflection will convince us, that neither of the
two last things was to be expected. There was absolutely no
criterion, either for a full indemnification, or for an advance upon
account. The value of the property seized and condemned (lay
out of the case damages upon captures where condemnation had
not ensued) was not ascertained, even to our own government,
with any tolerable accuracy. Every well-informed man will
think it probable, that of this, a proportion was covered French
property. There were, therefore, no adequate data, upon which
our government could demand, or the British government pay, a
determined sum. Both governments must have acted essentially
by guess. Ours could not in honor or conscience have made
even an estimate but upon evidence. It might have happened,
that a sum which appeared upon the evidence that had been col-
lected, sufficient, might have proved on further evidence insuffi-
cient. Too little, as well as too much, might have been demanded
and paid. But it will perhaps be said, that some gross estimate
might have been formed ; and that of this, such a part might have
been advanced upon account, as was within the narrowest pro-
bable limit, liable to eventual adjustment. Let us for a moment
suppose this done — what good end would it have answered?
How could the United States have distributed this money among
the sufferers, till it was ascertained which of them was truly en-
titled, and to how much ? Is it not evident, that if they had

304 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

made any distribution, before the final and perfect investigation
of the right of each claimant, it would be at the risk of making
mispayments, and of being obliged to replace the sums mispaid,
perhaps at a loss to the United States, for the benefit of those
who should be found to be better entitled ? AVould it have been
expedient for our government to have incurred this risk to its
constituents ? And if the money was to be held undistributed
till an investigation of claims was completed, to what purpose the
haste about an advance?

On the other hand — Is it in this loose, gross way, that nations
transact affairs with each other? Do even individuals make in-
demnifications to one another, in so lumping a manner ? Could
it be expected of Great Britain, that she would pay, till it was
fairly ascertained what was to be paid ; especially when she had
too much cause to suspect, that a material proportion of the pro-
perty claimed, might turn out to be French ? Would it have
been justifiable on our part, to make her compliance with
such a demand, the sine qua non of accommodation and peace ?
Whoever will believe that she would have complied with so hu-
miliating a requisition, must be persuaded that we were in a con-
dition to dictate, and she in a condition to be obliged to receive
any terms that we might think fit to prescribe ! The person
who can believe this, must be, in my opinion, under the influence
of a delirium, for which there is no cure in the resources of rea-
son and argument.

It must be admitted, that it was matter of necessity, that in-
vestigation should precede payment ; then I see not what more
summary mode could have been devised. Who more capable of
proceeding with dispatch, than arbitrators untrammelled with
legal forms ; vested with powers to examine parties and others,
on oath, and to command and receive all evidence in their own
way ? Here are all the means of expedition divested of every
clog.

Eighteen months are allowed for preferring claims, but the
commissioners are at liberty to adjust them as fast as they are
preferred. In every case in which it appears to them bona Jide,
that the ordinary course of justice is inadequate to relief, they

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 305

may forthwith, proceed to examine and decide. There is no
impediment, no cause of delay whatever, more than the nature
of a due investigation always requires.

The. meeting of the commissioners at London, was recom-
mended by the circumstance that the admiralty courts were
likely to concentre there a considerable part of the evidence,
on which they were to proceed ; which, upon the whole, might
favor dispatch, as well as more complete justice. In many cases,
the decisions of those courts may come under their review.

As to the uncertainty of the event, this, as far as it may be
true, was inseparable from any plan, bottomed on the idea of a
previous investigation of claims : and it has been shown, that
some such plan was reasonable and inevitable.

It may also be added, that the plan affords a moral certainty
of substantial justice, which is all that can rationally be expected
in similar affairs ; compensation, where due, is explicitly stipu-
lated. A fair and adequate mode of deciding and liquidating it
has been settled. All the arguments which were adduced to
prove the probability of good faith, in regard to the posts, apply
equally to this subject. The interest which every nation has in
the preservation of character, and which the most profligate dare
not entirely disregard — the consideration of defeating the ful-
filment of the stipulations on our part — the size of the object,
certainly not of great magnitude — the very discouraging situation
for replunging suddenly into a new war, in which the present
war will in every event leave Great Britain. These are reasons
which afford solid ground of assurances that there will be no
evasion of performance.

As to the commissioners, two of the five will be of our choice,
a third may be so likewise ; but should it prove otherwise, it will
be surprising if one of the other three, all acting under oath, and
having character at stake, shall not be disposed to do us reason-
able justice.

3d. While their power is coextensive with all losses and

damages from irregular or illegal captures or condemnations,

their sentence in each case is to be conclusive, and the rules

which are to govern it, as prescribed by the article, are the merits

G 20

306 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

of each case, justice, equity, and the law of nations. What
greater latitude could have been desired to be given? What
greater latitude could have been given ? What else in the case
was there to have been provided for ? What is meant . by the
assertion, that the provision is not commensurate with the object ?

The general and unqualified reference to the laws of nations,
dismisses all pretence to substitute the arbitrary regulations of
Great Britain as rules of decision. Her instructions or orders, if
incompatible with those laws, are nullities.

Thus the treaty unfetters the question between us and her,
from the commencement of the war, and with her own consent,
commits them at large to a tribunal to be constituted by mutual
choice.

Will any man of candor and equity say, that a better pro-
vision ought to have been expected than has been accomplished ?

The alternative was immediate indemnification, by actual
payment in whole or in part, without examination of the extent
or justice of claims; or future indemnification, after a due in-
vestigation of both in some equitable and effectual mode. The
first was attended with difficulties on our side, and with solid
objections on the other side. The last was therefore the truly
reasonable course, and it has been pursued on a very proper
plan. The causes of loss and damage are fully embraced. They
are referred to the decision of an unexceptionable tribunal, to be
guided by unexceptionable rules, and the indemnification which
may be awarded, is to be paid fully, immediately, and without
detour by the British government itself. Say, ye impartial and
enlightened, if all this be not as it ought to have been !

Camillus.

no. xvi.

1795.
The second object of the seventh article, as stated in my
last number, is "compensation to British citizens, for captures of

Avr. 38.] C A M I L L U S . 307

their property within the limits and jurisdiction of the United
States, or elsewhere, by vessels originally armed in our ports, in
the cases in which the captured property having come within our pow-
er, there ivas a, neglect to make restitution"

This precise view of the thing stipulated, is calculated to
place the whole subject at once before the mind, in its true shape ;
to evince the reasonableness of it, and to dismiss the objections
which have been made, as being foreign to the real state of the
case. These objections are, in substance, that the compensation
promised is of great extent and amount ; that an enormous
expense is likely to be incurred; and that it is difficult to prove,
that a neutral nation is under an obligation to go the lengths of
the stipulation.

These remarks obviously turn upon the supposition, errone-
ously entertained or disingenuously affected, — that compensation
is to be made for all captures within our limits or jurisdiction, or
elsewhere, by vessels originally armed in our ports, where resti-
tution has not, in fact, been made. Did the stipulation stand
on this broad basis, it would be justly liable to the criticism
which has been applied to it. But the truth is, that its basis is
far more narrow— that instead of extending to all those captures,
it is confined to the particular cases of them only, in which the
captured property came, or was, after the capture, within our
power, so as to have admitted of restitution by us, but restitu-
tion was not made, through the omission or neglect of our gov-
ernment. It does not extend to a single case, where the pro-
perty, if taken within our jurisdiction, was immediately carried
out of our reach — or where, if taken within our jurisdiction, it
was never brought within our reach, or where, if at any time
within our reach, due means were employed without success to
effect restitution.

It will follow from this, that the cases within the purview of
the article, must be very few — for, except with regard to three
prizes, made in the first instance, where special considerations
restrained the government from interposing, there has been a
regular and constant effort of the executive, in which our courts
have efficaciously co-operated, to restore prizes made within our

808 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

jurisdiction, or by vessels armed in our ports. The extent or
amount, therefore, of the compensation to be made, can by no
possible means be considerable.

Let us, however, examine if the construction I give to the
clause be the true one.

It is in these words : — "It is agreed that in all such cases
where restitution shall not have been made agreeably to the tenor
of the letter from Mr. Jefferson to Mr. Hammond, dated Sep-
tember 5th, 1793, a copy of which is annexed to this treaty, the
complaints of the parties shall be and hereby are referred to the
commissioners to be appointed by virtue of this article, who
are hereby authorized and required to proceed in the like man-
ner relative to these as to the other cases committed to them ;
and the United States undertake to pay to the complainants in
specie, without deduction, the amount of such sums as shall be
awarded to them respectively," &c.

The letter of Mr. Jefferson, by this reference to it, and its
annexation to the treaty, is made virtually a part of the treaty.
The cases in which compensation is promised, are expressly
those in which restitution has not been made, agreeably to the
tenor of that letter.

An analysis of the letter will of course unfold the cases in-
tended.

1. It recapitulates an assurance before given by a letter of
the 7th August, to the British minister, that measures were
taken for excluding from further asylum in our ports, vessels
armed in them to cruise on nations with which we were at peace,
and for the restoration of the prizes the Lovely Lass, Prince
William Henry, and the Jane of Dublin; and that, should the
measures of restitution fail in their effect, the President considered
it as incumbent on the United /States, to make compensation for the
vessels. These vessels had been captured by French privateers,
originally armed in our ports, and had been afterwards brought
within our ports.

2. It states that we are bound by our treaties with three of
the belligerent nations,* by all the means in our power, to pro-

* France, Holland, and Prussia, and our treaty with Sweden includes a like
proviso.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3<>9

tect and defend their vessels and effects in our ports or waters,
or on the seas near our shore, and to recover and restore the
same to the right owners, when taken from them; adding, that
if all the means in our power are used, and fail in their effect, we
are not bound by our treaties to make compensation. It further
states, that though we have no similar treaty with Great Britain,
it was the opinion of the President, that we should use town ids
that nation the same rule which was to govern us with those
other nations, and even to extend it to captures made on the high
seas and brought into our ports, if done by vessels which had
been armed within them.

3. It then draws this conclusion, that having, for particular
reasons, forbore to use all means in our power for the restitution of
the three vessels mentioned in the letter of the 7th of August,
the President thought it incumbent upon the United States to
make compensation for them: and though nothing was said in
that letter, of other vessels, taken under like circumstances and
brought in after the 5th of June, and before the date of that let-
ter, yet when the same forbearance had taken place, it was his
opinion that compensation would be equally due. The cases, then,
here described, are those in which illegal prizes are made, and
brought into our ports, prior to the 7th of August, 1793, and in
which we had forborne to use all the means in our power for restitu-
tion. Two characters are made essential to the cases in which
the compensation is to be made ; one, that the prizes were brought
within our ports — the other, that vie forbore to use all the means in
our power to restore them.

4. The letter proceeds to observe, that, as to prizes made
under the same circumstances, and brought in after the date of
that letter, the President had determined, that all means in our
power should be used for their restitution ; that if ihesefailed, as we
should not be bound to make compensation to the other powers,
in the analogous case, he did not mean to give an opinion, thai it
ought to be done to Great Britain. But still, if any case shall arise,
subsequent to that date, the circumstances of whirl* shall place them
on a similar ground with those before it, the President would think
compensation incumbent on the United States. The additional

310 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

cases of which an expectation of compensation is given in this
part of the letter, must stand on smiliar ground with those before
described — that is, they must be characterized by the two circum-
stances of a bringing within our ports, and a neglect to use all the
means in our power for their restitution. Every where the idea
of compensation is negatived, where the prizes have not come
within our power, or where we have not forborne to use the
proper means to restore them.

The residue of the letter merely contains suggestions for
giving effect to the foregoing assurances.

This analysis leaves no doubt that the true construction is
such as I have stated. Can there be any greater doubt that the
expectations given by the President, in the first instance, and
which have been only ratified by the treaty, were in themselves
proper, and have been properly ratified ?

The laws of nations, as dictated by reason, as received and
practised upon among nations, as recognized by writers, esta-
blish these principles for regulating the conduct of neutral
powers.

A neutral nation (except as to points to which it is clearly
obliged by antecedent treaties) whatever may be its opinion of
the justice or injustice of the war on either side, cannot, without
departing from its neutrality, favor one of two belligerent parties
more than the other — benefit one, to the prejudice of the other —
furnish or permit the furnishing to either, the instruments of acts
of hostility, or any warlike succor or aid whatever, especially
without extending the same advantage to the other — cannot suf-
fer any force to be exerted, or warlike enterprise to be carried on
from its territory, by one party against the other, or the prepara-
tion or organization there, of the means of annoyance ; has a
right and is bound to prevent acts of hostility within its jurisdic-
tion ; and, if they happen against its will, to restore any property
which may have been taken in exercising them. These positions
will all be found supported in the letter or spirit of the following
authorities ; Barbeyrac's note on Puffendorff, b. viii. c. vi. f. 7.
Grotius, b. iii. c. xvii. f. o. Bynkershoeck, b. i. c. viii. p. 61 — 65.
c. xi. p. 69, 70. Vattel, b. iii. c. vii. Bynkershoeck cites exam-
ples of restitution in the case mentioned.

.Et. 38.] CAMILLUS. 311

Every treaty we have made with foreign powers, promises
protection within our jurisdiction, and the restoration of property
taken there. A similar stipulation is, indeed, a general formula
in treaties, giving an express sanction to the rule of the laws of
nations in this particular.

An act of Congress, of the 5th June, 1794, which is expressly
a declaratory act, recognizes at large the foregoing principles of
the laws of nations, providing, among other things, for the pun-
ishment of any person, who, within the United States, fits out
and arms, or attempts to fit out and arm, or procures to be fitted
out and armed, or is knowingly concerned in furnishing, fitting
out, or arming, of any ship or vessel, with intent to be employed
in the service of a foreign state, to cruise or commit hostilities
upon the subjects or citizens of another foreign state, with which
the United States are at peace ; or issues or delivers a commis-
sion for any such ship or vessel, or increases or augments, or
procures to be increased or augmented, oris knowingly concerned
in increasing or augmenting the force of any ship of war, cruiser,
or other armed vessel, in the service of a foreign state at war with
another foreign state, with which the United States are at peace ;
or within the territory of the United States, begins or sets on foot,
or provides or prepares the means of any military expedition
or enterprise, to be carried on from thence against the dominions
of any foreign state, with which the United States are at peace.

And our courts have adopted, in its fullest latitude, as con-
formable, in their opinion, with those laws, the principle of resti*
tution of property, when either captured within our jurisdiction,
or elsewhere, by vessels armed in our ports. The Supreme Court
of the United States has given to this doctrine, by solemn deci-
sions, the most complete and comprehensive sanction.

It is therefore, undoubtedly, the law of the land, determined
by the proper constitutional tribunal, in the last resort, that resti-
tution is due in the above-mentioned cases.

And it is a direct and necessary consequence from this, that
where it is not made by reason of the neglect of the government,
to use the means in its power for the purpose, there results an
obligation to make reparation. For, between nations, as between

312 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 38.

individuals, wherever there exists a perfect obligation to do a
thing, there is a concomitant obligation to make reparation for
omissions and neglects.

The President was therefore most strictly justifiable, upon
principle, in the opinion which he communicated, that, in the
cases of such omissions or neglects, compensation ought to be
made. And in point of policy, nothing could be wiser : for had
he not done it, there is the highest probability, that war would
have ensued.

Our treaty with France forbids us expressly to permit the
privateers of the enemy to arm in our ports, or to bring or sell
there the prizes which they have made upon her. We could
not, for that reason, have made the privilege of arming in our
ports, if it had been allowed to France, reciprocal. The allow-
ance of it to her would, consequently, have been a clear violation
of neutrality, in the double sense of permitting a military aid, and
of permitting it to the one, and refusing it to the other. Had we
suffered France to equip privateers in our ports, to cruise thence
upon her enemies, and to bring back and vend there the spoils or
prizes taken, we should have become by this the most mischievous
foe they could have. For, while all our naval resources might
have augmented the force of France, our neutrality, if tolerated,
would, in a great degree, have sheltered and protected her cruis-
ers. Such a state of things no nation at war could have ac-
quiesced in. And as well to the efficacy of our endeavors to
prevent equipments in our ports, as to the proof of the sincerity
of those endeavors, it was essential that we should restore the
prizes which came within our reach, made by vessels armed in
our ports. It is known, that notwithstanding the utmost efforts
of the government to prevent it, French privateers have been
clandestinely equipped in some of our ports, subsequent to the
assurances which were given, that the practice would be dis-
countenanced. If prizes made by such vessels were suffered to
be brought into our ports, and sold there, this would be not
only a very great encouragement to the practice, but it would
be impossible that it should be regarded in any other light than
as a connivance.

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 313

In such circumstances, can we blame our chief magistrate ?
Can we even deny him praise, for having diverted ;m imminent
danger to our peace, by incurring the responsibility of giving an
expectation of compensation? The conjuncture we may remem-
ber was critical and urgent. Congress were at the time in recess.
A due notice to convene them in so extensive a country, can
hardly be rated at less than three months.

In this situation our envoy found the business. It is not true,
in the sense in which it has been advanced, that he was to be
governed by the fitness of the thing, unmindful of the opinion
of the President. An opinion of the chief magistrate of the
Union, was to a diplomatic agent an authority and a guide,
which he could not justifiably have disregarded. The claim of
compensation, on the other side, was greatly fortified by this
opinion. Nor was it a matter of indifference to our national de-
licacy and dignity, that the expectation given by it should be
fulfilled. It would have been indecent in our envoy to have
resisted it. It was proper in him, by acceding to it, to refer the
matter to the ultimate decision of that authority, which, by our
Constitution, is charged with the power of making treaties. It
was the more proper, because the thing was intrinsically right.
Every candid man, every good citizen, will rejoice that the Pre-
sident acted as he did in the first instance — that our envoy acted
as he did in the second — and that the conduct of both has re-
ceived the final constitutional sanction.

The opinions of Mr. Jefferson, when they can be turned to
the discredit of the treaty, are with its adversaries oracular
truths. When they are to support it, they lose all their weight.
The presumption, that the letter referred to had the concurrence
of the judgment of that officer, results from a fact, generally un-
derstood and believed, namely, that the proceedings of the Pre-
sident, at the period when it was written, in relation to the war,
were conformable with the unanimous advice of the heads of the
executive departments.

This ease of British property captured by privateers origi-
nally armed in our ports, falsifies the assertion of the adversa-
ries of the treaty, that the pretensions of Great Britain have

314 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

been fully provided for. She had a colorable ground to claim
compensation for all captures made by vessels armed in our ports,
whithersoever carried in, or howsoever disposed of, especially
where their equipment had been tolerated by our government.
This toleration was to be referred, as well from a forbearance to
suppress those vessels when they came within power, as from an
original permission. Had compensation been stipulated on this
scale, it is not certain that it would not have amounted to as
much more than that which has been promised, as would counter-
balance our claims, for negroes carried away, and for the deten-
tion of the posts. But instead of this, it is narrowed down by
the treaty to such prizes of those vessels as were brought within
our ports, and in respect to which we forbore to nse all the
means in our power for restitution. Here, then, is a set-off
against doubtful and questionable claims relinquished on our
side. Here, also, is another proof how much the antagonists of
the treaty are in the habit of making random assertions. But
can we wonder at it, when we reflect that they have undertaken
to become the instructors of their fellow-citizens on a subject, in
the examination of which they unite a very superficial know-
ledge with the most perverse dispositions ?

Camillus.

no. XVII.

1795.
The eighth article provides merely, that the commissioners to
be appointed in the three preceding articles, shall be paid in such
manner as shall be agreed between the parties, at the time of the
exchange of the ratification of the treaty ; and that all other ex-
penses attending the commissions, shall be defrayed jointly by
the two parties, the same being previously ascertained and al-
lowed by a majority of the commissioners ; and that in case of
death, sickness, or necessary absence of a commissioner, his place
shall be supplied in the same manner as he was first appointed

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 315

— the new commissioner to take the same oath or affirmation,
and to perform the same duties as his predecessor.

Could it have been imagined, that even this simple and equi-
table provision was destined not to escape uncensured? As if it
was predetermined, that not a single line of the treaty should
pass without the imputation of guilt; nothing less than an in-
fraction of the Constitution of the United States has been charged
upon this article. It attempts, we are told, a disposition of the
public money, unwarranted by and contrary to the Constitution.
The examination of this wonderful, sagacious objection, with
others of a similar complexion, must be reserved for the sepa-
rate discussion which has been promised of the constitutionality
of the treaty.

Let us proceed, for the present, to the ninth article.

This article agrees, that British subjects, who now hold lands
in the territories of the United States, and American citizens
who now hold lands in the dominions of his Britannic majesty,
shall continue to hold them, according to the nature and tenure of
their respective estates and titles therein ; and may grant, sell, or de-
vise the same. to whom they please, in like manner as if they
were natives; and that neither they, nor their heirs or assigns.
so far as may respect the said lands, and the legal remedies inci-
dental thereto, shall be regarded as aliens.

The misapprehension of this article, which was first ushered
into public view, in a very incorrect and insidious shape, and
was conceived to amount in the grant of an indefinite and per-
manent right to British subjects to hold lands in the United
States, did more, it is believed, to excite prejudices against the
treaty, than any thing that is really contained in it. And yet
when truly understood, it is found to be nothing more than a
confirmation of those rights to lands, which, prior to the treaty,
the laws of the several States allowed British subjects to hold:
with this inconsiderable addition, perhaps, that the heirs and as-
signs of -those persons, though aliens, may hold tin1 same lands:
but no right whatever is given to lauds of which our laws did
not permit and legalize the acquisition.

These propositions will now be elucidated.

316 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

The terra, hold, in the legal code of Great Britain and of these
States, has the same and that a precise technical sense. It im-
ports a capacity legally and rightfully to have and enjoy real estate,
and is contradistinguished from the mere capacity of taking or
purchasing, which, is sometimes applicable to the acquisition
of a thing, that is forfeited by the very act of acquisition.
Thus an alien may take real estate by purchase, but he cannot
hold it. Holding is synonymous with tenure, which, in the feu-
dal system, implies fealty, of which an alien is incapable. Land,
therefore, is forfeited to the government, the instant it passes
to an alien. The Roman law nullifies the contract entirely ; so
that nothing passes by the grant of land to an alien : but our
law, derived from that of England, permits the land to pass for
the purpose of forfeiture to the State. This is not the case with
regard to descent, because the succession or transmission there,
being an act of law, and the alien being disqualified to hold, the
law, consistent with itself, casts no estate upon him.

The following legal authorities, selected from an infinite
number of similar ones, establish the above positions, viz., Coke
on Littleton, pages 2, 3. " Some men have capacity to pur-
chase, but not ability to hold. Some, capacity to purchase and
ability to hold or not to hold, at the election of themselves and
others. Some, capacity to take and to hold. Some, neither ca-
pacity to take nor to hold. And, some are specially disabled to
take some particular thing. If an alien, Christian or Infidel, pur-
chase houses, lands, tenements, or hereditaments to him or his
heirs, albeit he can have no heirs, yet he is of capacity to take a
fee simple, but not to hold.1'' The same, page 8. " If a man
seized of land in fee, hath issue an alien, he cannot be heir, prop-
ter defectum subjectionis." Blackstone's Commentaries, book ii.,
chap, xviii., § 2. "Alienation to an alien is a cause of forfeiture
to the crown of the lands so alienated, not only on account of
his incapacity to hold them, but likewise on account of his pre-
sumption in attempting, by an act of his own, to acquire real
property." Idem, chap, xix., § i., "the case of an alien born, is
also peculiar ; for he may purchase a thing ; but, after purchase,
he can hold nothing, except a lease for years of a house, for the
convenience of merchandise."

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 317

Thus it is evident, that by the laws of England, which it will
not be denied, agree in principle with ours, an alien may take
but cannot hold lands.

It is equally clear, the laws of both countries agreeing in this
particular, that the word hold, used in the article under considera-
tion, must be understood according to those laws, and therefore
can only apply to those cases in which there was a legal capacity
to hold — in other words, those in which our laws permitted the
subjects and citizens of the two parties to hold lands in the terri-
tories of each other. Some of these cases existed prior to the
treaty of peace ; and where confiscations had not taken place,
there has never been a doubt, that the property was effectually
protected by that treaty. Others have arisen since that treaty,
under special statutes of particular States. Whether there are
any others depending on the principles of the common law, need
not be inquired into here, since the late treaty will neither
strengthen nor impair the operation of those principles.

Whatever lands, therefore, may have been purchased by any
British subject, since the treaty of peace, which the laws of the
State wherein they were purchased did not permit him to ac-
quire and hold, are entirely out of the protection of the ar-
ticle under consideration ; the purchase will not avail him ; the
forfeiture, which was incurred by it, is still in full force. As
to those lands which the laws of a State allowed him to purchase
and hold, he ows his title to them, not to the treaty.

Let us recur to the words of the article: "British subjects,
who now hold lands, shall continue to hold' them according to the
nature and tenure of their respective estates and titles therein." But
it has been seen, that to hold lands is to own them in a legal
and competent capacity, and that an alien has no such capacity.
The lands, therefore, which, by reason of the alienage of a
British subject, he could not, prior to the treaty, legally pur-
chase and hold— he cannot, under the treaty, continue to hold.
As if it was designed to render this conclusion palpable, the
provision goes on to say, " According to the nature and tenure
of their respective estates and titles therein." This is equivalent
to saying, they shall continue to hold as they before held. If

318 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 38.

they had no valid estate or title before, they will of course con-
tinue to have none — the expressions neither give any new, nor
enlarge any old estate.

The succeeding clauses relate only to descents or alienations
of the land originally legally holden. Here the disability of ali-
enage is taken away from the heirs and assigns of the primitive
proprietors. While this will conduce to private justice, by en-
abling the families and friends of the individuals to enjoy their
property by descent or devise, which it is presumable was the
main object of the provision, there is no consideration of na-
tional policy that weighs against it. If we admit the whole
force of the argument, which opposes the expediency of per-
mitting aliens to hold lands (and concerning which I shall barely
remark here, that it is contrary to the practice of several of the
States, and to a practice from which some of them have hitherto
derived material advantages) the extent to which the principle
is affected by the present treaty is too limited to be felt, and in
the rapid mutations of property, it will every day diminish.
Every alienation of a parcel of the privileged land to a citizen
of the United States, will, as to that land, by interrupting the
chain, put an end to the future operations of the privilege ; and
the lapse of no great number of years may be expected to make
an entire revolution in the property, so as to divest the whole
of the privilege.

To manifest the unreasonableness of the loud and virulent
clamor, which was excited against this article, it has been
observed by the friends of the instrument, that our treaty with
France not only grants a much larger privilege to the citizens
of France, but goes the full length of removing universally and
perpetually from them the disability of alienism, as to the own-
ership of lands. This position has been flatly denied by some
of the writers on the other side. Deems in particular, after
taking pains to show that it is erroneous — that the terms " goods
movable and immovable," in the article of our treaty with
France, mean only chattels real and personal in the sense of
our law, and exclude a right to the freehold and inheritance
of lands, triumphantly plumes himself on the detection of a fal-

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 319

lacy of the writer of certain "candid remarks od the treaty,"
who gives the interpretation above stated to that article.

The error of Decius's interpretation, proceeds from a misun-
derstanding of the term goods, in the English translation of the
article, to which he annexes the meaning assigned to that term in
our law, instead of resorting, as he ought to have done, to the
French laws for the true meaning of the correspondent term
biens, which is that used in the French original. Goods, in our
law, no doubt, mean chattel interests: but goods or "biens" in
the French law, mean all kinds of property, real as well as per-
sonal. It is equivalent to, and derived from, the term bona,
in the Eoman law, answering most nearly to " estates" in our law,
and embracing inheritances in land, corporeal and incorporeal
hereditaments, as well as property in movable things.

When it is necessary to distinguish one species from another,
it is done by an adjective — "biens meubles et immeubles," answer-
ing to bona or res mobilia, or immobilia, things movable and im-
movable, estates real and personal. — the authorities at foot* will
show the analogy of these different terms in the three different
languages; but for fixing the precise sense of those used in the
treaty, I have selected and shall quote two authorities from
French books, which, are clear and conclusive on the point. —
One will be found in the work of a French lawyer, entitled,
Collection de Decisions Nouvelles, et de Notions relatives
a la Jurisprudence actuelle, under the article BiENsf, and
is in these words, viz. : "The word Men has a general significa-
tion, and comprehends all sorts of possessions as movables, im-

* Justinian's Institutes, Lib. iii. Tit. 10, 11, 12, 13. Lil>. iv. Tit. 2.
Domat'8 Civil and Public Law. Pro]. Book, Tit. 3, Sect. 1, 2. Book iv.
Sect. 1.

f Biens. Le mot, bien, a une signification generate, & comprend toutessortea
de possessions, comiue meubles, immeubles, acquets. conquSts, propres, &c.

On distingue dans les biens des particuliers, les meubles & Irs immeubles, lea
acquets & les propres; &, entre les propres, les paternels vS. lea maternels, les
anciens & les naissans. Les biens meubles sont ceux qui peuveni Be mouvoir &
se transporter d'un lieu en un autre, comme des denrees, des marchandises, de
deniers comptans, de la vaisselle d'agent, des bestiaux, des utensilea d'hotel. !.• •
biens immeubles sont ceux qui De peurent se mouvoir ou se transporter dun lieu
dans un autre, comme des bcritages, des maisons, &c.

•

320 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

movables, purchases, acquisitions by marriage, inheritances, &c.
It is distinguished into these particulars — movables, immovables,
purchases and inheritances; subdividing inheritances into paternal
and maternal, old and new. Movable biens are those which
may be moved and transported from one place to another, as
wares, merchandises, and current money, plate, beasts, house-
hold utensils, &c. Immovable biens are those which cannot be
moved from one place to another, as inheritances, houses, &c.
Biens are distinguished again into corporeal and incorporeal."
Another* is drawn from the celebrated institutes of the French
law, by Mr. Argou, and is in these words : '' Biens — This is in
general whatever composes our riches. There are two sorts of
biens, movable and immovable. Movable, all that may be
transported from one place to another. Immovable, lands or
what is presumed to have the nature of land. They are dis-
tinguished into two kinds, real and fictitious. Eeal are not only
the substance of the earth, which is called fonds ; but all that ad-
heres to its surface, whether from nature, as trees, or from the
hand of man, as houses and other buildings. The others are
called fictitious, because they are only real by fiction, as offices
which are vendible, and subject to fiscal reversion, rent-charges,"
&c. The signification of bona in the Eoman law, corresponds, as
was observed above, with that of biens in the French. " Bono-
rum appellatio universitatem quandem, et non singulas res de-
monstrat ;" which may be rendered, " The appellation of Bona
designates the totality of property or estate, and not particular
things." — and hence it is, that the cessio bonorum of a debtor is
the surrender of his whole fortune.

Both these terms, " bona" and "biens," are indiscriminately

* Biens. — C'est en generate tout ce qui compose nos richesses ; il y a deux sortes
de biens, les meubles & les immeubles ; meubles, tout ce qui peut etre transports
d'un lieu a un autre : immeubles— biens en fonds, ou qui sont presume avoir la
nature de fonds— On distingue deux sorts d'immeubles, les reels, & les fictifs ; les
immeubles reels sont non seulement la substance meme de la terre qui est ce qu'on
appelle le fond, mais tout ce qui est adherent a. sa surface, soit par la nature,
comme les arbres, soit par la main des liommes, comme les maisons & autre bati-
ments_On a appelle l'autre espece d'immeubles, immeubles fictifs; parce qu'ils
ne sont tells que par fiction ; de ce nombre sont les offices venaux, casuels, & les
rentes constitutues.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 321

translated goods, estates, effects, property/' — In our treaty with
France they are translated "goods;" but it is evidently a great
mistake to understand the expression in the limited sense of our
law. Being a mere word of translation, it must be understood
according to the meaning of the French text; for it is declared
in the conclusion of the treat}r, that it was originally composed
and concluded in the French tongue. Moreover, the term goods,
when used in our language, as the equivalent of the term bona, or
biens, is always understood in the large sense of the original term;
in other words, as comprehending real and personal estate, inheri-
tances as well as chattel interests.

Having now established the true meaning of the terms " goods
movable and immovable," let us proceed with this guide to a
review of the article.

Its first and principal feature is, " that the subjects and inha-
bitants of the United States, or any of them, shall not be reputed
Aubains in France. This is the same as if it had been said,
:< they shall not be reputed Aliens." For the definition of
Aubains, as given in the work before first cited, is this — " Au-
bains are persons not born under the dominion of the king," the
exact equivalent of the definition of Alien in the English law.
If our citizens are not to be reputed aliens in France, it follows,
that they must be exempted from alien disabilities, and must have
the same rights with natives, as to acquiring, conveying, and
succeeding to real and other estate. Accordingly the article,
having pronounced that our citizens shall not be reputed aliens
in France, proceeds to draw certain consequences. The first is, that
they shall not be subject to the droit d'aubaine. The droit d'aubaine
was, under the monarchy, one of the regalia; it was the right of
the prince to succeed to all estates or property situate in the
kingdom, belonging to foreigners, who died without legitimate
children, born in the kingdom.

It is to be observed, that the laws of France permitted foreign-
ers to acquire and hold even real estates, subject to the right of
the sovereign, in case of demise without issue born under his

* See authorities before cited: See also Puffendorff, book viii. ch. 5, sect. 8.
Grotius, book iii. eh. 5, sect. 11, 12. Vattel, book i. ch. 20, sect. 245, 246, 247.
G 21

322 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

allegiance. But this right of the sovereign, as to American citi-
zens, is abrogated by the treaty ; so that their legal representatives,
wherever born, may succeed to all the property, real or personal,
which they may have acquired in France.

And, in conformity to this, it is further declared, that they
may, by testament, donation, or otherwise, dispose of their
goods, movable and immovable (that is, as we have seen, their
estates, real and personal) in favor of such persons as to them shall
appear good ; so that their heirs, subjects of the United States,
whether residing in France or elsewhere, may succeed to them,
ab intestate, without being obliged to obtain letters of naturaliza-
tion.

These are the stipulations on the part of France ; and they
amount to a removal from the citizens of the United States, of
alien disabilities in that country, as to property. I say as to
property, because, as to civil and ecclesiastical employments, it
seems to have been a principle of the French law, that the in-
capacity of foreigners could only be removed by special dispensa-
tions, directed to the particular object.

What are the correlative stipulations on the part of the United
States? They are in these terms : "The subjects of the most
Christian king shall enjoy, on their part, in all the dominions of
the said States, an entire and perfect reciprocity, relative to the
stipulations contained in this article. But it is at the same time
agreed, that its contents shall not affect the laws made, or that
may be made hereafter in France, against emigrations, which shall
remain in all their force and vigor; and the United States on
their part, or any of them, shall be at liberty to enact such laws
relative to that matter, as to them shall appear proper."

Since, then, the article removes from our citizens the disabili-
ties of aliens as to property in France, and stipulates for her
citizens, an entire and perfect reciprocity in the United States, it
follows, that Frenchmen are equally exempt in the United States
from the like disabilities. They may, therefore, hold, succeed to,
and dispose of, real estates.

It appears that the sense both of the French and of the Ame-
rican governments has corresponded with this construction.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3*23

In the year 1786, the Marquis Bellegarcle and the Chevalier
Meziere, sons of the two sisters of General Oglethorpe, represented
to the Count de Vergennes, the French minister for foreign affairs,
that they met with impediments to their claims from the laws of
Georgia, prohibiting aliens to hold lands. Mr. de Vergennes
communicated their complaint to Mr. Jefferson, our then minister
in France, observing, that the alien disabilities of the complain-
ants having, in common with those of all Frenchmen, been
removed by the treaty between the two countries, they ought to
experience no impediments on that account, in the succession to
the estate of their uncle, and that the interfering laws of Georgia
ought to be repealed so as to agree with the treaty.

Mr. Jefferson, in reply, states the case of the complainants,
proving that they were precluded from the succession for other
reasons than that of alienism : and then adds, that as the treaty
with France having placed the subjects of France in the United
States on a footing with natives, as to conveyances and descents of
property, there is no necessity for the assemblies to pass laws on
the subject, the treaty being a law, as he conceives, superior to
those of particular assemblies, and repealing them when they stand
in the way of its operation.

Where now, Decius, is thy mighty triumph ? Where the
trophies of thy fancied victory ? Learn that in political, as well
as other science,

" Shallow draughts intoxicate the brain,
And drinking largely sobers us again."

The fixing the true sense of the article in the treat) with
Great Britain, is alone a refutation of most of the objections which
have been made to it, by showing, that they apply not to what
really exists, but to a quite different thing. It may be useful,
however, to pass them briefly in review with some cursory re-
marks.

The article, it is said, infringes the rights of the States, an. I
impairs the obligation of private contracts, permits aliens to hold
real estates against the fundamental policy of our laws, and at tin

324 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

hazard of introducing a dangerous foreign influence ; is unequal,
because no American has been hard}' enough, since the peace, to
purchase lands in England, while millions of acres have been
purchased by British subjects in our country, with knowledge of
the risk— is not warranted by the example of any other treaty
we have made; for if even that of France should contain a simi-
lar provision (which is denied) still the difference of circumstances
would make it an inapposite precedent ; since this was a treaty
made, flagrante hello, in a situation which justified sacrifices.

These objections have been formally and explicitly urged.
One writer, afraid of risking a direct assertion, but insidiously
endeavoring to insinuate misconception, contents himself with
putting a question. What (says he) will be the effect of this
article as to the revival of the claims of British subjects, traitors
or exiles ?

As to the infraction of the rights of the States, this, it is pre-
sumed, must relate to the depriving them of forfeitures of alien
property. But as the article gives no right to a British subject
to hold any lands which the laws of a State did not previously
authorize him to hold — it prevents no forfeiture to which he was
subject by them, and, consequently, deprives no State of the
benefit of any such forfeiture. With regard to escheats for want
of qualified heirs, it depended on every proprietor to avoid them
by alienations to citizens.

As to impairing the obligation of private contracts, it is
difficult to understand what is meant. Since land, purchased by
an alien, passes from the former proprietor, and becomes for-
feited to the State, can it be afterwards the subject of a valid
private contract ? If the effect of the article was to confirm a
defective title derived from the alien, how could this impair the
obligation of any other private contract concerning it? But
whatever may be intended, it is enough to say, that the article
does not confirm the title to any land which was not before good.
So that the ground of the objection fails.

As to permitting aliens to hold land, contrary to the policy
of our laws,.it has been shown, that on a true construction, it
only applies to the very limited case of the alien heirs and assigns

Mr. 38.] CAMILLUS.

of persons who before rightfully held lands, and is confined to
the identical lands so previously holden ; that its greatesl effect
must be insignificant; and that this effect will continually de-
crease.

As to the millions of acres, said to have been purchased 1 ly
British subjects since the peace, it has been shown, that if by the
laws of the States in which the purchases were made, they were
illegally acquired, they still remain in the situation in which they
were before the treaty.

As to there being no precedent of a similar stipulation with
any other country, it has been proved, that, with France, we
have one much broader. The idea that this was a sacrifice to
the necessity of our situation, flagrante hello, is new. Are we
then to understand, that we in this instance gave to France, as
thep-fcce of her assistance, a privilege in our country, which leads
to the introduction of a foreign influence, dangerous to our inde-
pendence and prosperity ? For to this result tends the argument
concerning the policy of the exclusion of aliens. Or is it, that no
privilege, granted to France, can be dangerous ?

Those who are not orthodox enough to adopt this last posi-
tion, may, nevertheless, tranquillize themselves about the con-
sequences. This is not the channel through which a dangerous
foreign influence can assail us. Notwithstanding all that lias
been said, it may, perhaps, bear a serious argument, whether the
permission to foreigners to hold lands in our country, might not,
by the operation of private interest, give us more influence upon
foreign countries, than they will ever acquire upon us, from- the
holding of those lands. Be this as it may, could we not appeal
to some good patriots, as they style themselves, by way of emi-
nence, for the truth of the observation, that foreign governments
have more direct and powerful means of influence than can ever
result from the right in question?

Moreover, there was a peculiar reason for the provision which
has been made in our last treaty, not applicable to any treaty
with another country. The former relative situation of the
United States and Great Britain, led to the possession of lands
by the citizens of each in the respective territories. It was

326 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 38.

natural and just to secure by treaty their free transmission to the
heirs and assigns of the parties.

As to the revival of the claims of traitors or exiles ; if pro-
perty, confiscated and taken away, is property holden by those who
have been deprived of it, then there may be ground for alarm on
this score. How painful is it to behold such gross attempts to
deceive a whole people on so momentous a question ! How
afflicting, that imposture and fraud should be so often able to
assume with success the garb of patriotism ? And that this sub-
lime virtue should be so frequently discredited by the usurpation
and abuse of its name !

Camillus.

no. XVIII.

1795.

It is provided by the tenth article of the treaty, that " neither
debts due from individuals of one nation to individuals of the
other, nor shares, nor moneys, which they may have in the pub-
lic funds, or in the public or private banks, shall ever, in any
event of war, or national difference, be sequestered or confiscated ;
it being unjust and impolitic, that debts and engagements, con-
tracted and made by individuals, having confidence in each
other, and in their respective governments, should ever be
destroyed or impaired by national authority on account of
national differences and discontents."

The virulence with which this article has been attacked, can-
not fail to excite very painful sensations in every mind duly im-
pressed with the sanctity of public faith, and with the importance
of national credit and character ; at the same time that it fur-
nishes the most cogent reasons to desire, that the preservation of
peace may obviate the pretext and the temptation to sully the
honor, and wound the interests of the country, by a measure
which the truly enlightened of every nation would condemn.

I acknowledge, without reserve, that in proportion to the

Mt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 327

vehemence of the opposition against this part of the treat v, is the
satisfaction I derive from its existence, as an obstacle the more
to the perpetration of a thing, which, in my opinion, besides
deeply injuring our real and permanent interest, would cover us
with ignominy. No powers of language, at my command, can
express the abhorrence I feel at the idea of violating the pro-
perty of individuals, which, in an authorized intercourse, in time
of peace, has been confided to the faith of our government and
laws, on account of controversies between nation and nation.
In my view, every moral and every political sentiment unite to
consign it to execration.

Neither will I dissemble, that the dread of the effects of the
spirit which patronizes that idea, has ever been with me one of
the most persuasive arguments for a pacific policy on the part of
the United States. Serious as the evil of war has appeared, at
the present stage of our affairs, the manner in which it was to be
apprehended it might be carried on, was still more formidable,
in my eyes, than the thing itself. It was to be feared, that in
the fermentation of certain wild opinions, those wise, just, and
temperate maxims, which will for ever constitute the true security
and felicity of a state, would be overruled ; and that a war upon
credit, eventually upon property, and upon the general principles
of public order, might aggravate and embitter the ordinary ca-
lamities of foreign war. The confiscation of debts due to the
enemy, might have been the first step of this destructive process.
From one violation of justice to another, the passage is easy.
Invasions of right, still more fatal to credit, might have followed j
and this, by extinguishing the resources which that could have
afforded, might have paved the way to more comprehensive and
more enormous depredations for a substitute. Terrible examples
were before us ; and there were too many not sufficiently remote
from a disposition to admire and imitate them.

The earnest and extensive clamors against the part of the
treaty under consideration, confirm that anticipation ; and while
they enhance the merit of the provision, they also inspire a wish,
that some more effectual barrier had been erected against the
possibility of a contrary practice being ever, at any ill-fated

328 HAMILTON'S WORKS' [Mi. 38.

moment, obtruded upon our public councils. It would have
been an inestimable gem in our national constitution, had it con-
tained a positive prohibition against such a practice, except, per-
haps, by way of reprisal for the identical injury on the part of
another nation.

Analogous to this is that liberal and excellent provision, in the
British Magna Charta, which declares, that " if the merchants of
a country at war with England, are found there in the beginning
of the war, they shall be attached without harm of body or
effects, until it is known in what manner English merchants are
treated in the enemy's country ; and if they are safe, that the
foreign merchants shall also be safe."* The learned Lord Coke
pronounces this to be jus belli or law of war: — And the elegant
and the enlightened Montesquieu, speaking of the same provision,
breaks out into this exclamation — "It is noble that the English
nation have made this one of the articles of its liberty."f How
much it is to be regretted, that our magna charta is not unequi-
vocally decorated with a like feature ; and that, in this instance,
we, who have given so many splendid examples to mankind, are
excelled in constitutional precaution for the maintenance of
justice !

There is, indeed, ground to assert, that the contrary principle
would be repugnant to that article of our Constitution, which
provides, that " no State shall pass any law impairing the obliga-
tion of contracts." The spirit of this clause, though the letter of
it be restricted to the States individually, must, on fair construc-
tion, be considered as a rule for the United States; and if so,
could not easily be reconciled with the confiscation or sequestra-
tion of private debts in time of war. But it is a pity, that so
important a principle should have been left to inference and im-
plication, and should not have received an express and direct
sanction.

* Si Mereatores sint de terra contra nos guerrira, et tales inveniantur in terra
nostra in principio guerrae, attachientur sine damno corporum suorum vel re rum,
donee sciatur a nobis vel a capitali justiciario nostro quo mode- mereatores terras
nostra? tractantur qui tunc inveniantur in terra ilia contra nos guerirra ; et si
nostri salvi sint ibi, alii salvi sint in terra nostra. Magna Charta, cap. xxx.

f Spirit of Laws, book xx., chap. 13.

,Et. 38] CAMILLUS. 329

This position must appear a frightful heresy in the eyes of
those who represent the confiscation or sequestration of debts, as
our best means of retaliation and coercion, as our most powerful,
sometimes as our only means of defence.

But so degrading an idea will be rejected with disdain, by
every man who feels a true and well-informed national pride;
by every man who recollects and glories, that in a state of still
greater immaturity, we achieved independence without the aid of
this dishonorable expedient;* that even in a revolutionatw war,
a war of liberty against usurpation, our national councils were
too magnanimous to be provoked or tempted to depart so widely
from the path of rectitude; by every man, in fine, who, though
careful not to exaggerate, for rash and extravagant projects, can
nevertheless fairly estimate the real resources of the country, for
meeting dangers which prudence cannot avert.

Such a man will never endure the base doctrine, that our
security is to depend on the tricks of a swindler. He will look
for it in the courage and constancy of a free, brave and virtuous
people — in the riches of a fertile soil — an extended and progres-
sive industry — in the wisdom and energy of a well-constituted
and well-administered government — in the resources of a solid, if
well-supported, national credit — in the armies, which, if requisite,
could be raised — in the means of maritime annoyance, which, if
necessary, could be organized, and with which we could inflict
deep wounds on the commerce of a hostile nation. He will
indulge an animating consciousness, that while our situation is
not such as to justify our courting imprudent enterprises, neither
is it such as to oblige us, in any event, to stoop to dishonorable
means of security, or to substitute a crooked and piratical policy,
for the manly energies of fair and open war.

* The federal government never resulted to it; and a few only of the state gov-
ernments stained themselves with it. It may, perhaps, lie said, that the federal
goverment had no power on the subject; hut the reverse of this is truly the case.
The federal government alone had power. The state governments had nonei
though some of them undertook to exercise it. This position is founded on the
solid ground that the confiscation or sequestration of the debts of an enemy is a
high act of reprisal and war, necessarily and exclusively incident to the power ol
making war, which was always in the federal government.

330 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

That is the consequence of the favorite doctrine that the con-
fiscation or sequestration of private debts is our most powerful,
if not our only, weapon of defence ! Great Britain is the sole
power against whom we could wield it, since it is to her citizens
alone, that we are largely indebted. What are we to do, then,
against any other nation which might think fit to menace us ?
Are we, for want of adequate means of defence, to crouch be-
neath the uplifted rod, and, with abject despondency, sue for
mercy ? Or has Providence guaranteed us specially against the
malice or ambition of every power on earth, except Great
Britain ?

It is at once curious and instructive to mark the inconsisten-
cies of the disorganizing sect. Is the question, to discard a spirit
of accommodation, and rush into war with Great Britain ? Col-
umns are filled with the most absurd exaggerations, to prove
that we are able to meet her, not only on equal, but superior
terms. Is the question, whether a stipulation against the confis-
cation or sequestration of private debts ought to have been
admitted into the treaty? Then are we a people destitute of the
means of war, with neither arms, nor fleets, nor magazines —
then is our best, if not our only weapons of defence, the power
of confiscating or sequestrating the debts which are due to the
subjects of Great Britain ; in other words, the power of commit-
ting fraud, of violating the public faith, of sacrificing the princi-
ples of commerce, of prostrating credit. Is the question, whether
free ships shall make free goods, whether naval stores shall or
shall not be deemed contraband ? Then is the appeal to what is
called the modern law of nations ; then is the cry, that recent
usage has changed and mitigated the rigor of ancient maxims.
But is the question, whether private debts can be rightfully con-
fiscated or sequestered ? Then ought the utmost rigor of the
ancient doctrine to govern, and modern usage and opinion to be
discarded. The old rule or the new is to be adopted or rejected,
just as may suit their convenience.

An inconsistency of another kind, but not less curious, is
observable in positions, repeatedly heard from the same quarter,
namely, that the sequestration of debts is the only peaceable

Mi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 331

mean of doing ourselves justice and avoiding war. If we trace
the origin of the pretended right to confiscate or sequester debts,
we find it, in the very authority, principally relied on to prove
it, to be this (Bynkershoeck, qusestiones juris publici, I. s. 2):
" Since it is the condition of war, that ENEMIES may be deprived
of all their rights, it is reasonable, that every thing of an enemy's,
found among his enemies, should change its owner, and go to the
treasury." Hence it is manifest, that the right itself, if it exist,
presupposes, as the condition of its exercise, an actual state of
war, the relation of enemy to enemy. Yet we are fastidiously and
hypocritically told, that this high and explicit act of war, is a
peaceable mean of doing ourselves justice and avoiding war.
Why are we thus told ? Why is this strange paradox attempted
to be imposed upon us? Why, but that it is the policy of the
conspirators against our peace, to endeavor to disguise the hos-
tilities, into which they wish to plunge us, with a specious out-
side, and to precipitate us down the precipice of war, while we
imagine we are quietly and securely walking along its summit.

Away with these absurd and incongruous sophisms ! Blush,
ye apostles of temerity, of meanness, and of deception ! Cease
to beckon us to war, and at the same time to freeze our courage
by the cowardly declaration, that we have no resource but in
fraud ! Cease to attempt to persuade us, that peace may be ob-
tained by menus which are unequivocal acts of war. Cease to
tell us, that war is preferable to dishonor, and yet, as our first
step, to urge us into irretrievable dishonor. A magnanimous, a
sensible people, cannot listen to your crude conceptions. Why
will ye persevere in accumulating ridicule and contempt upon
your own heads ?

In the further observations which I shall offer on this article,
I hope to satisfy, not the determined leaders or instruments of
faction, but all discerning men, all good citizens, that, instead of
being a blemish, it, is an ornament to the instrument in which it
is contained; that it is as consistent with true policy as with sub-
stantial justice ; that it is, in substance, not without precedent in
our other treaties, and that the objections to it are (utile.

( 'amillus.

332 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

NO. XIX.

1795.

The objects protected by the 10th article, are classed under
four heads: — 1. Debts of individuals to individuals; 2, property
of individuals in the public funds; 3, property of individuals
in public banks ; 4, property of individuals in private banks.
These, if analyzed, resolve themselves, in principle, into two dis-
criminations, viz., private debts, and private property in public
funds. The character of private property prevails throughout.
No property of either government is protected from confiscation
or sequestration by the other. This last circumstance merits at-
tention, because it marks the true boundary.

The propriety of the stipulation will be examined under these
several aspects : the right to confiscate or sequestrate private
debts or private property in public funds, on the ground of rea-
son and principle — the right as depending on the opinions of
jurists and on usage — the policy and expediency of the practice
— the analogy of the stipulation with stipulations in our other
treaties, and in treaties between other nations.

First, as to the right on the ground of reason and principle.

The general proposition on which it is supported, is this,
"That every individual of a nation, with whom we are at war,
wheresoever he may be, is our enemy, and his property of every
kind, in ever}r place, liable to capture by right of war."

The only exception admitted to this rule, respects property
within the jurisdiction of a neutral state; but the exemption is
referred to the right of the neutral nation, not to any privilege
which the situation gives to the enemy proprietor.

Reason, if consulted, will suggest another exception. This
regards all such property as the laws of a country permit for.
eigners to acquire within it or to bring into it. The right of
holding or having propert}^ in a country, always implies a duty
on the part of its government to protect that property, and secure
to the owner the full enjoyment of it. Whenever, therefore,
a government grants permission to foreigners to acquire property

JEt. 38.] UAMILLUS. ■'<■'>■'<

within its teritories, or to bring and deposit it there, it tacitly
promises protection and security. It must be understood to
engage, that the foreign proprietor, as to what he shall have
acquired or deposited, shall enjoy the rights, privileges and
immunities of a native proprietor, without any other exceptions
than those which the established laws may have previously de-
clared. How can any thing else be understood ? Every state,
when it has entered into no contrary engagement, is free to per-
mit or not to permit foreigners to acquire or bring property
within its jurisdiction; but if it grant the right, what is there
to make the tenure of the foreigner different from that of the
native, if antecedent laws have not pronounced a difference?
Property, as it exists in civilized society, if not a creature of,
is, at least, regulated and defined by, the laws. They prescribe
the manner in which it shall be used, alienated, or transmitted;
the conditions on which it may he held, perserved, or forfeited.
It is to them we are to look for its rights, limitations, and con-
ditions. No condition of enjoyment, no cause of forfeiture,
which they have not specified, can be presumed to exist. An
extraordinary discretion to resume or take away the thing, with-
out any personal fault of the proprietor, is inconsistent with the
notion of property. This seems always to imply a contract
between the society and the individual ; that he shall retain and
be protected in the possession and use of his property, so long
as he shall observe and perform the conditions which the laws
have annexed to the tenure. It is neither natural nor equitable
to consider him as subject to be deprived of it, for a cause fo-
reign to himself: still less for one which may depend on the
volition or pleasure, even of the very government to whose pro-
tection it has been confided: for the proposition, which affirms
the right to confiscate or sequester, does not distinguish between
offensive or defensive war ; between a war of ambition on the
part of the power which exercises the right, or a war of self-pre-
servation against the assaults of another.

The property of a foreigner placed in another country, by-
permission of its laws, may justly be regarded as a deposit, of
which the society is the trustee. How can it it be reconciled with

334 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

the idea of a trust, to take the property from its owner, when
he has personally given no cause for the deprivation?

Suppose two families in a state of nature, and that a mem-
ber of one of them had by permission of the head of the other,
placed in his custody some article belonging to himself — and
suppose a quarrel to ensue between the two heads of families,
in which the member had not participated by his immediate
counsel or consent — would not natural equity declare the seizure
and confiscation of the deposited property to be an act of per-
fidious rapacity?

Again — suppose two neighboring nations, which had not had
intercourse with each other, and one of them opens its ports and
territories for the purpose of commerce, to the citizens of the
other, proclaiming free and safe ingress and egress — suppose
afterwards a war to break out between the two nations, and the
one which had granted that permission, to seize and convert to
its own use, the goods and credits of the merchants of the other,
within its dominion. What sentence would natural reason, un-
warped by particular dogmas, pronounce on such conduct? If
we abstract ourselves from extraneous impressions, and consult
a moral feeling, we shall not doubt that the sentence would in]
flict all the opprobrium and infamy of violated faith.

Nor can we distinguish either case, in principle, from that
which constantly takes place between nations, that permit a
commercial intercourse with each other, whether with or without
national compact. They equally grant a right to bring into and
carry out of their territories the property which is the subject of
the intercourse, a right of free and secure ingress and egress ;
and in doing this, they make their territories a sanctuary or asy-
lum, which ought to be inviolable, and which the spirit of plunder
only could have ever violated.

There is no parity between the case of the persons and goods
of enemies found in our own country, and that of the persons
and goods of enemies found elsewhere. In the former there is
a reliance upon our hospitality and justice ; there is an express
or implied safe conduct ; the individuals and their property are

jEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 835

in the custody of our faith: they have no power to resist our
will; they can lawfully make no defence against our violence;
they are deemed to owe a temporary allegiance ; and for endea-
voring resistance, would be punished as criminals ; a chara<
inconsistent with that of an enemy. To make them a prey, is,
therefore, to infringe every rule of generosity and equity; it is
to add cowardice to treachery. In the latter case, there is no
confidence whatever reposed in us ; no claim upon our hospitality,
justice or good faith; there is the simple character of enemy,
with entire liberty to oppose force to force. The right of war
consequently to attack and seize, whether to obtain indemnifica-
tion for any injury received — to disable our enemy from doing
us further harm — to force him to reasonable terms of accom-
modation— or to repress an overbearing ambition, exists in full
vigor, unrestrained and unqualified by any trust or duty on our
part. In pursuing it, though we may inflict hardship, we do not
commit injustice.

Moreover, the property of the foreigner within our country
may be regarded as having paid a valuable consideration for its
protection and exemption from forfeiture ; that which is brought
in, commonly enriches the revenue by a duty of entry. All
that is within our territory, whether acquired there or brought
there, is liable to contributions to the treasury, in common with
other similar property. Does there not result an obligation to
protect that which contributes to the expense of its protection ?
Will justice sanction, upon the breaking out of a war, the con-
fiscation of a property, which, during peace, serves to augment
the resources and nourish the prosperity of a state ?

The principle of the proposition gives an equal right to sub-
ject the person as the property of the foreigner to the rigors
of war. But what would be thought of a government which
should seize all the subjects of its enemy found within its ter-
ritory, and commit them to durance, as prisoners of war ? A\ ould
not all agree that it had violated an asylum which ought to have
been sacred? That it had trampled upon tin- laws of hospitality
and civilization ? That it had disgraced itself by an act of cruelty

336 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

aud barbarism ?* Why would it not be equally reprehensible
to violate the asylum which had been given to the property of
those foreigners ?

Eeason, left to its own lights, would answer all these ques-
tions in one way, and severely condemn the molestation, on
account of a national contest, as well of the property as person of
a foreigner found in our country, under the license and guarantee
of the laws of previous amity.

The case of property in the public funds is still stronger than
that of private debts. To all the sanctions which apply to the
latter, it adds that of an express pledge of the public faith to the
foreign holder of stock.

The constituting of a public debt or fund, transferable with-
out limitation or distinction, amounts to a promise to all the
world, that whoever, foreigner or citizen, may acquire a title to
it, shall enjoy the benefit of what is stipulated. Every trans-
feree becomes, by the act of transfer, the immediate proprietor
of the promise. It inures directly to his use, and the foreign
promisee no more than the native, can be deprived of that
benefit, except in consequence of some act of his own, without
the infraction of a positive engagement.

Public debt has been truly defined, " A property subsisting in
the faith of government" Its essence is promise. To confiscate
or sequester it is emphatically to rescind the promise given, to
revoke the faith plighted — It is impossible to separate the two
ideas of a breach of faith, and the confiscation or sequestration of
a property subsisting only in the faith of the government by
which it is made.

When it is considered, that the promise made to the foreigner
is not made to him in the capacity of member of another society,
but in that of citizen of the world, or of an individual in the
state of nature — the infraction of it towards him, on account of
the fault, real or pretended, of the society to which he belongs,
is the more obviously destitute of color. There is no real affinity
between the motive and the consequence. There is a confound-

* All that can rightfully be done, is to oblige the foreigners, who are subjects of
our enemy, to quit our country.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 337

ing of relations. The obligation of a contract can only be avoided
by the breach of a condition express or implied, which appeal's
or can be presumed to have been within the contemplation of
both parties, or by the personal fault or crime of him to whom it
is to be performed. Can it be supposed that a citizen of one
country would lend his money to the government of another, in
the expectation that a war between the two countries, which,
without or against their will, might break out the next day,
could be deemed a sufficient cause of forfeiture ?

The principle may be tested in another way — Suppose one
government indebted to another in a certain sum of money, and
suppose the creditor government to borrow of the citizen of the
other an equal sum of money. When he came to demand pay-
ment, would justice, would good faith, permit the opposing to
his claim, by way of set-off, the debt due from his government?
Who would not revolt at such an attempt ? Could not the indi-
vidual creditor answer with conclusive force, that in a matter of
contract he was not responsible for the society of which he was a
member, and that the debts of the society were not a proper set-
off against his private claim?

With what greater reason could his claim be refused on
account of an injury which was a cause of war, received from
his sovereign, and which had created on the part of the sove-
reign a debt of reparation ? It were certainly more natural and
just to set off a debt due by contract to the citizen of a foreign
country against a debt due by contract from the sovereign of
that country, than to set it off against a vague claim of indem-
nification for an injury or aggression of which we complain, and
of which the reality or justice is seldom undisputed on the other
side.

The true rule which results from what has been said, and
which reason sanctions with regard to the right of capture, i-
this — "It may be exercised every where except within a neutral
jurisdiction* or where the property is under the protection of our mvn

* There are exceptions to this exception ; but they depend on special circum-
stances, which admit the principal exception, and need not be particularized.

G 22

338 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

laws ;" and it may perhaps be added that it always supposes the
possibility of rightful combat, of attack, and defence.

These exceptions involve no refinement — they depend on
obvious considerations, and are agreeable to common sense and
to nature — the spontaneous feelings of equity accord with them.
It is, indeed, astonishing that a contrary rule should ever have
been countenanced by the opinion of any jurist, or by the prac-
tice of any civilized nation.

We shall see in the next number how far either has been the
case, and what influence it ought to have upon the question.

Camillus.

no. xx.

1795.

The point next to be examined is the right of confiscation or
sequestration, as depending on the ©pinions of jurists and on
usage.

To understand how far these ought to weigh, it is requisite to
consider what are the elements or ingredients, which compose
what is called the law of nations.

The constituent parts of this system are, 1. The necessary or
internal law, which is the law of nature applied to nations ; or
that system of rules for regulating the conduct of nation to
nation, which reason deduces from the principles of natural right,
as relative to political societies or states. 2. The voluntary law,
which is a system of rules resulting from the equality and inde-
pendence of nations, and which, in the administration of their
affairs, and the pursuit of their pretensions, proceeding on the
principle of their having no common judge upon earth, attributes
equal validity, as to external effects, to the measures or conduct
of one as of another, without regard to the intrinsic justice of
those measures or that conduct. Thus captures, in war, are as
valid, when made by the party in the wrong, as by the party in
the right. 3. The factitious or conventional law, or that law

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 339

which results from a treaty between two or more nations. This
is evidently a particular, not a general law, since a treaty or pact
can only bind the contracting parties : yet, when we find a pro-
vision universally pervading the treaties between nations, for a
length of time, as a kind of formula, it is high evidence of the
general law of nations. 4. The customary law, which consists of
those rules of conduct, that, in practice, are respected and ob-
served among nations. Its authority depends on usage, implying
a tacit consent and agreement. This also is a particular, not a
general law, obligatory only on those nations whose acquiescence
has appeared, or, from circumstances, may fairly be presumed.
Thus, the customary law of Europe may not be that of a different
quarter of the globe. The three last branches are sometimes
ao-orre^atelv denominated the positive law of nations.

The two first are discoverable by reason; the two last depend
on proof, as matters of fact. Hence the opinion of jurists, though
weighing, as the sentiments of judicious or learned men, who have
made the subject a particular study, are not conclusive, as authori-
ties.— ln regard to the necessary and voluntary law, especially, they
may be freely disregarded, unless they are found to be adopted
and sanctioned by the practice of nations : For where reason is
the guide, it cannot properly be renounced for mere opinion,
however respectable. As witnesses of the customary laws, their
testimony, the result of careful researches, is more particularly
entitled to attention.

If, then, it has been satisfactorily proved, as the dictate of
sound reason, that private debts, and private property in public
funds, are not justly liable to confiscation or sequestration, an op-
posite opinion of one or more jurists could not control the con-
clusion in point of principle. So far as it may attest a practice of
nations, which may have introduced a positive law on the subject,
the consideration may be different. It will then remain to ex-
amine, upon their own and other testimony, whether that practice
be so general as to be capable of varying a rule of reason, by the
force of usage ; and whether it still continues to bear the same
character, or has been weakened or done away by some recent or
more modern usage.

340 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

I will not avail myself of a position, advanced by some wri-
ters, that usage, if derogating from the principles of natural justice,
is null, further than to draw this inference, that a rule of right,
deducible from them, cannot be deemed to be altered by usage,
partially contradicted, fluctuating.

With these guides, our further inquiries will serve to confirm
us in the negative of the pretended right to confiscate or seques-
ter in the cases supposed.

The notion of this right is evidently derived from the Roman
law. It is seen there, in this peculiar form : " Those things of
an enemy which are among us, belong not to the state, but to
the first occupant,"* which seems to mean, that the things of an
enemy, at the commencement of the war, found in our country,
may be seized by any citizen, and will belong to him who first
gets possession. It is known, that the maxims of the Roman
law are extensively incorporated into the different codes of Eu-
rope ; and particularly, that the writers on the law of nations have
borrowed liberally from them. This source of the notion does not
stamp it with much authority. The history of Rome proves, that
war and conquest were the great business of that people, and that,
for the most part, commerce was little cultivated. Hence it was
natural, that the rights of war should be carried to an extreme,
unmitigated by the softening and humanizing influence of com-
merce. Indeed the world was yet too young — moral science too
much in its cradle — to render the Roman jurisprudence a proper
model for implicit imitation : accordingly, in this very particular
of the rights of war, it seems to have been equally a rule of the
Roman law, " That those who go into a foreign country, in time
of peace, if war is suddenly kindled, are made the slaves of those
among whom> now become enemies by ill fortune, they are ap-
prehended, "f This right of capturing the property and of mak-
ing slaves of the persons of enemies is referred, as we learn from
Cicero, to the right of killing them ; which was regarded as abso-

* Digest. XLI. tit. I. "Et quae res hostiles apud nos," &c.

f • In pace qui pervenerunt ad alteros, si bellum subito exarcisset, eorum servi
efficiuntur, apud quos jam hostes suo facto deprehenduntur." Digest, lib. XLIX.
tit. XV, 1. xii.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 341

lute and unqualified, extending even to women and children.
Thus it would seem, that, on the principle of the Roman law, we
might rightfully kill a foreigner, who had come into our country
during peace, and was there at the breaking out of a war with his
country — Can there be a position more horrible, more detesta-
ble ?

The improvement of moral science in modern times, restrains
the right of killing an enemy to the time of battle or resistance,
except by way of punishment for some enormous breach of the
law of nations, or for self-preservation, in case of immediate and
urgent danger ; and rejects altogether the right of imposing
slavery on captives.

Why should there have been a hesitation to reject other odi-
ous consequences of so exceptionable a principle ? What respect
is due to maxims which have so inhuman a foundation ?

And yet a deference for those maxims has misled writers who
have professedly undertaken to teach the principles of national
ethics ; and the spirit of rapine has continued, to a late period, to
consecrate the relics of ancient barbarism with too many prece-
dents of imitation — Else it would not now be a question with
any, " Whether the person or property of a foreigner, being in
our country with permission of the laws of peace, could be liable
to molestation or injury by the laws of war — merely on ac-
count of the war ?"

Turning from the ancients to the moderns, we find, that
the learned Grotius quotes and adopts, as the basis of his o] un-
ions, the rules of the Roman law ; though he, in several par-
ticulars, qualifies them, by the humane innovations of later
times.

On the very question of the right to confiscate or sequester
private debts, his opinion, as far as it appears, seems to be at
variance with his premises, steering a kind of middle course.
His expressions (L. III. C. XX. Sec. XVI.) are these. "Those
debts which are due to private persons, at the beginning of the
war, are not to be accounted forgiven (that is, when peace is
made); for these are not acquired by the right of war, but only
forbidden to be demanded in time of war ; therefore, the impediment

342 HAMILTON'S WORKS. L^t. 38.

being removed, that is, the war ended, they retain their full
force." His idea appears from this passage to be, that the right
of war is limited to the arresting of the payment of private
debts during its continuance, and not to the confiscation or an-
nihilation of the debt. Nor is it clear, whether he means, that
this arrestation is to be produced by a special act of prohibition,
or by the operation of some rule of law, which denies to an
alien enemy a right of action. This feeble and heterogeneous
opinion may be conceived to have proceeded from a conflict be-
tween a respect for ancient maxims, and the impression of more
enlightened views, inculcated by the principles of commerce and
civilization.

Bynkershoeck is more consistent : Adopting, with Grotius,
the rule of the Koman law in its full vigor, he is not frightened
at the consequences, but follows them throughout. Hence he
bestows a chapter upon the defence of the proposition, quoted
in a former number (to wit), that * "Since it is the condition of
war, that enemies may, with full right, be despoiled and proscrib-
ed, it is reasonable that whatsoever things of an enemy are found
among his enemies, should change their owner and go to the
treasury ;" and in several places he expressly applies the rule to
things in action, or debts and credits, as well as to things in pos-
session.

In confirmation of his doctrine, he adduces a variety of ex-
amples, which embrace a period of something more than a cen-
tury, beginning in the year 1556, and ending in the year 1657,
and which comprehends, as actors on the principle which he
espouses, France, Spain, the States General, Denmark, the bish-
ops of Cologne and Munster. But he acknowledges that the
right has been questioned ; and notes particularly, that when
the king of France and the bishops of Munster and Cologne, in
the year 1563, confiscated the debts which their subjects owed
to the confederate Belgians, the states general, by an edict of the
6th of July, of that year, censured the proceeding, and decreed

* Qujestionum Juris Public, liber I. caput VII. l: Cum ea sit belli conditio
ut hostes sint omni jure spoliati proscriptique, rationis est quascumque res hostiura
apud hostes inveutas, dominum mutate et fisco cedere."

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 348

that those debts could not be paid but to the true creditors, and
that the exaction of them, whether by force or with consent,
was not to be esteemed valid.

If from the great pains which appear to have been taken by
this learned writer, to collect examples in proof of his doctrine,
we are to conclude that the collection is tolerably complete, we
are warranted in drawing this inference, that he has not cared
any defect, which reason may discern in his principle, by any
thing like the evidence of such a general, uniform, and continu-
ed usage, as is requisite to introduce a rule of the positive law of
nations, in derogation from the natural.

A minority only of the powers of Europe are shown to have
been implicated in the practice ; and among the majority, not
included, are several of the most considerable and respectable.
One of these, Great Britain, is represented as having acquiesced
in it, in the treaties of peace, between her and some of the pow-
ers who went into the practice, to her detriment, by relinquish-
ing the claim of restitution — But war must, at length, end in
peace ; and the sacrifice a nation makes to the latter, is a slight
argument of her consent to the principle of the injuries which
she may have sustained. I have not been able to trace a single
instance in which Great Britain has, herself, set the example of
such a practice ; nor could she do it, as has elsewhere appeared,
without contravening an article of magna charta, unless by way
of reprisal for the same thing done towards her. The suggestion
of an instance in the present war with France, will, hereafter, be
examined. In such a question, the practice of a nation, which
has, for ages, figured pre-eminently in the commercial world, is
entitled to particular notice.

It is not unworthy of remark, that the common law of Eng-
land, from its earliest dawnings, contradicted the rule of the
Roman law. It exempted from seizure, by a subject of England,
the property of a foreigner brought there before a war ; but gave
to the first seizor, or occupant, the property which came there
after the breaking out of a war. The noble principles of the
common law cannot cease to engage our respect, while we have
before our eyes so many monuments of their excellence in our
own jurisdiction.

344 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

It also merits to be dwelt upon, that the United Netherlands,
for some time the first, and long only the second in commercial
consequence, formally disputed the right, and condemned the
practice of confiscating private debts, though themselves, in some
instances, guilty of it.

And it is likewise a material circumstance, that Bynkershoeck,
who seems to have written in the year 1737, does not adduce
any precedent later than the year 1667, seventy years before his
publication.

The subsequent period will, it is believed, be found upon
strict inquiry, equally barren of similar precedents. The ex-
ceptions are so few,* that we may fairly assert, that there is the
negative usage of near a century and a half, against the pretended
right. This negative usage, of a period, the most enlightened as
well as the most commercial in the annals of the world, is of the
highest authority. The former usage, as being partial and with
numerous exceptions, was insufficient to establish a rule. The
contrary usage, or the renunciation of the former usage, as being
general, as attended with few or no exceptions, is sufficient even
to work a change in the rigor of an ancient rule, if it could be
supposed to have been established. Much more is it sufficient to
confirm and enforce the lesson of reason, and to dissipate the
clouds which error, and some scattered instances of violence and
rapine, may have produced.

Of the theoretical writers, whom I had an opportunity of
consulting, Vattel is the only remaining one, who directly treats
the point. His opinion has been said to favor the right to con-
fiscate and sequester. But when carefully analyzed, it will add
to the proofs of the levity with which the opposers of the treaty
make assertions.

After stating, among other things, that " war gives the same
right over any sum of money due by a neutral nation to our
enemy, as it can give over his other goods," he proceeds thus —
" When Alexander, by conquest, became absolute master of
Thebes, he remitted to the Thessalians, a hundred talents, which

* The case of Prussia and the Silesia loan, is the only one I have found.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. .".IT,

they owed to the Thebans. The sovereign has naturally the
same right over what his subjects may be indebted to bis ene-
mies ; therefore he may confiscate debts of this nature, if the
term of payment happen in the time of war ; or, a1 least, he may
prohibit his subjects from paying, while the war lasts. But at
present, in regard to the advantage and safety of commerce, all
the sovereigns of Europe have departed from this rigor. And as
this custom has been generally received, he who should act con-
trary to it, would injure the public faith; for strangers trusted
his subjects only from a firm persuasion, that the general custom
would be observed. The state does not so much as touch the
sums which it owes to the enemy. Every where, in case of a
war, funds credited to the public, are exempt from confiscation
and seizure."*

The first proposition of the above passage, amounts to this,
that "a sovereign naturally, that is, according to the law of
nature, may confiscate debts, which his subjects owe to his ene-
mies, if the term of payment happen in the time of war ; or, at
least, he may prohibit his subjects from paying while the war
lasts.' '

So far as this goes, it agrees with the principle which I com-
bat, that there is a natural right to confiscate or sequester pri-
vate debts in time of war ; so far Vattel accords with the Roman
law and with Bynkershoeck.

But he annexes a whimsical limitation, "If the term of pay-
ment happen in the time of war" — and there is a marked uncer-
tainty and hesitation — the sovereign "may confiscate, or, at
least, lie may prohibit his subjects from paying while the war
lasts." It is evident, that the circumstance of the time of pay-
ment can have no influence upon the right. If it reaches to
confiscation, which takes away the substance of the thing, the
mere incident of the happening of payment must be immaterial.
If it is confined to the arresting of payment during the war, the
reason of the rule, the object being to prevent supplies going to
the enemy, will apply it as well to debts which had become pay-

* Book III. Chap. 5, sec. 77.

346 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

able before the war, as to those which became payable in the
war. Whence this inaccuracy in so accurate a thinker ? Whence
the hesitation about so important a point, as whether the pre-
tended right extends to confiscation or simply to sequestration ?
They must be accounted for, as in another case, by the conflict
between respect for ancient maxims and the impressions of
juster views, seconded by the more enlightened policy of modern
times.

But while Vattel thus countenances, in the first part of the
passage, the opinion, that the natural law of nations authorizes
the confiscation or sequestration of private debts, in what imme-
diately follows, he most explicitly and unequivocally informs us,
that the rule of that law in this respect has been abrogated by
modern usage or custom ; in other words, that the modern cus-
tomary law has changed in this particular the ancient natural
law. Let his own words be consulted — " At present," says he,
" in regard to the advantage and safety of commerce, all the sove-
reigns of Europe have departed from this rigor : and as this cus-
tom has been generally received, he who would act contrary to
it, would injure the public faith ; for strangers trusted his sub-
jects onty from the firm persuasion that the general custom would
be observed."

This testimony is full, that there is a general custom received
and adopted by all the sovereigns of Europe, which obviates the
rigor of the ancient rule ; the non-observance of which custom
would violate the public faith of a nation ; as being a breach of
an implied contract, by virtue of the custom, upon the strength
of which foreigners trust his subjects.

Language cannot describe more clearly a rule of the custo-
mary law of nations, the essence of which, we have seen, is gene-
ral usage, implying a tacit agreement to conform to the rule.
The one alleged is denominated a custom generally received, a
general custom ; all the sovereigns of Europe are stated to be
parties to it, and it is represented as obligatory on the public
faith, since this would be injured by a departure from it.

The consequence is, that if the right pretended did exist by
the natural law, it has given way to the customary law ; for it

iET. 38.] CAMILLUS. 347

is a contradiction, to call that a right, which cannot be exercised
without breach of faith. The result is, that by the present custo-
mary law of nations, within the sphere of its action, there is no
right to confiscate or sequester private debts in time of war.
The reason or motive of which law is the advantage and safety
of commerce.

As to private property in public funds, the right to meddle
with them is still more emphatically negatived. " The state does
not so much as touch the sums it owes to the enemy. Every
where, in case of a war, funds credited to the public are exempt
from confiscation and seizure." These terms manifestly exclude
sequestration as well as confiscation.

In another place, the author gives the reason of this position,
Book II. Chap. XVIII. " In reprisals, the goods of a subject are
seized in the same manner as those of the state or the sovereign.
Every thing that belongs to the nation is liable to reprisals as
soon as it can be seized, provided it be not a deposit trusted to the
public faith. This deposit is found in our hands, only in con-
sequence of that confidence, which the proprietor has put in our
good faith, and it ought to be respected, even in case of open
war. Thus it is usual to behave in France, England, and else-
where, with respect to the money which foreigners have placed
in the public funds." The same principle, if he had reflected
without bias, would have taught him, that reprisals could right-
fully extend to nothing that had been committed with their per-
mission, to the custody and guardianship of our laws, during a
state of peace ; and, consequently, that no property, of our enemy,
which was in our country before the breaking out of the war.
is justly liable to them. For is not all such property equally a
deposit, trusted to Ok •public faith ? What foreigner would acquire
property in our country, or bring and lodge it there, but in the
confidence, that in case of war, it would not become an object of
reprisals? Why then resort to custom for a denial of tin' right
to confiscate or sequester private debts? Why not trace it to
the natural injustice and perfidy of taking away in war, what a
foreigner is permitted to own and have among us in peace?
Why ever have considered that as a natural right which was

348 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 38.

contrary to good faith tacitly pledged ? This is evidently the
effect of too much deference to ferocious maxims of antiquity, of
undue complaisance to some precedents of modern rapacity.

He had avoided the error, by weighing maturely the conse-
quences of his own principle in another case : " He who declares
war (says he) does not confiscate the immovable goods possessed
in his country by his enemy's subjects: in permitting them to pur-
chase arid possess those goods, he has, in this respect, admitted them
into the number of his subjects," (that is) he has admitted them
to a like privilege with his subjects, as to the real property they
were permitted to acquire and hold. But, why should a less
privilege attend the license to purchase, possess, or have other
kinds of property in his country ? The reason, which is, the
permission of the sovereign, must extend to the protection of one
kind of property as well as another, if the permission extends to
both.

Vattel advances in this and in the passage quoted immediately
before it, the true principles which ought to govern the question
— though he does not pursue them into their consequences ; else
he would not have deduced the exemption of private debts, from
confiscation or sequestration, from the customary law of nations,
but would have traced it to the natural or necessary law, as
founded upon the obligations of good faith ; upon the tacit pro-
mise of security connected with the permission to acquire pro-
perty within, or bring property into, our country ; upon the pro-
tection which every government owes to a property of which it
legalizes the acquisition, or the deposit within its jurisdiction;
and in case of immovable goods or real estate, of which he admits
a right to sequester the income, to prevent its being remitted to
the enemy, he would have perceived the necessity of leaving this
effect to be produced by the obstructions intrinsically incident to
a state of war ; since there is no reason why the income should
be less privileged than the substance of the thing.

It appears, then, that the doctrine of Vattel, collectively
taken, amounts to this, that there is a natural right of war in
certain cases to confiscate or sequester enemy's property found
within our country ; but that, on motives relative to commerce

At. 38.] CAM ILL US. 349

and public credit, the customary law of Europe has restrained
that right, as to private debts, and private property, in public funds.
His opinion, therefore, favors the principle of the article of the
treaty under examination, as consonant with the present Euro-
pean law of nations — and it is an opinion of greater weight than
any that can be cited ; as well on account of the capacity, dili-
gence, information, and the precision of ideas, which characterize
the work in which it is contained, as on account of the recency
of that work.*

A question may be raised — Does this customary law of na-
tions, as established in Europe, bind the United States? An
affirmative answer to this is warranted by conclusive reasons.

1. The United States, when a member of the British empire,
were, in this capacity, a party to that law, and not having dis-
sented from it, when they became independent, they are to be
considered as having continued a party to it. 2. The common
law of England, which was and is in force in each of these
States, adopts the law of nations, the positive equally with the
natural, as a part of itself. 3. Ever since we have been an inde-
pendent nation, we have appealed to, and acted upon, the modern
law of nations as understood in Europe — various resolutions of
Congress during our revolution — the correspondences of execu-
tive officers — the decisions of our courts of admiralty, all recog-
nized this standard, -i. Executive and legislative acts, and the
proceedings of our courts, under the present government, speak
a similar language. The President's proclamation of neutrality,
refers expressly to the modern law of nations, which must neces-
sarily be understood of that prevailing in Europe, and acceded
to by this country ; and the general voice of our nation, together
with the very arguments used against the treaty, accord in the
same point. It is indubitable, that the customary law of Euro-
pean nations is, as a part of the common law, and by adoption,
that of the United States.

But let it not be forgotten, that I derive the vindication of the
article from a higher source, from the natural or necessary law

* It appears to have been written about the year 1700.

350 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [/Et. 38.

of nature — from the eternal principles of morality and good
faith.

There is one more authority which I shall cite in reference to
a part of the question ; property in the public funds. It is a
report of the British king in the year 1753, from Sir George
Lee, judge of the prerogative court, Dr. Paul, advocate-general
in the courts of civil law, Sir Dudley Rider and Mr. Murray, at-
torney and solicitor-general * on the subject of the Silesia loan,
sequestered by the king of Prussia, by way of reprisal, for the
capture and condemnation of some Prussian vessels. This report
merits all the respect which can be derived from consummate
knowledge and ability in the reporters; but it would lose much
of its weight from the want of impartiality, which might fairly
be imputed to the officers of one of the governments interested
in the contest, had it not since received the confirming eulogies
of impartial and celebrated foreign writers. Among these, Vat-
tel calls it an excellent piece on the law of nations.

The following is an extract : — " The king of Prussia has
pledged his royal word to pay the Silesia debt to private men.
It is negotiable, and many parts of it have been assigned to the
subjects of other powers. It will not be easy to find an instance,
where a prince has thought fit to make reprisals upon a debt due
from himself to private men. There is a confidence that this will
not be done. A private man lends money to a prince upon an en-
gagement of honor ; because a prince cannot be compelled, like other
men, in an adversary way, by a court of justice. So scrupulously
did England and France adhere to this public faith, that even
during the war, they suffered no inquiry to be made, whether
any part of the public debt was due to the subjects of the enemy,
though it is certain many English had money in the French
funds, and many French had money in ours."

The universal obligation of good faith is here reinforced on a
special ground, by the point of honor ; to confirm the position
that money which a sovereign or state owes to private men, is
not a proper object of reprisals.

* Sir George Lee, was afterwards the very celebrated Chief Justice Lee, and
Mr. Murray was the late Lord Mansfield.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 351

This case of the Silesia debt is the only example, within the
present century, prior to the existing war, which I have been
able to trace, violating the immunity of private debts, or private
property, in public funds. It is a precedent that can have little
weight, not only from singularity, but from the character of its
author. Frederick was a consummate general, a profound states-
man ; but he was very far from being a severe moralist. This is
not the only instance in which he tarnished his faith ; and the
friends of his fame must regret, that he could not plead on the
occasion those mighty and dazzling reasons of state, which are
the specious apologies for his other aberrations.

It is asserted, that the present war of Europe affords examples
of the practice, which I reprobate, and that Great Britain herself
has given one. The present war of Europe is of so extraordinary
a complexion, and has been conducted, in all respects, upon such
extraordinary principles, that it may truly be regarded as an ex-
ception to all general rules, as a precedent for nothing. It is
rather a beacon, warning mankind to shun the pernicious ex-
amples, which it sets, than a model inviting to imitation. The
human passions, on all sides, appear to have been wrought up to
a pitch of frenzy, which has set reason, justice, and humanity, at
defiance.

Those who have nevertheless thought fit to appeal to the ex-
amples of this very anomalous war, have not detailed to us the
precise nature or course of the transactions to which they refer ;
nor do I know that sufficient documents have appeared in this
country to guide us in the inquiry.

The imperfect evidence which has fallen under my observation,
respects France and Great Britain, and seems to exhibit these
facts : —

France passed a decree sequestering the property of the sub-
jects of the powers at war with her ; and in the same or another
decree, obliged all those of her citizens, who had moneys owing to
them in foreign countries, to draw bills upon their debtors, and
to furnish those bills to the government, by way of loan, or upon
certain terms of payment.

The government of Great Britain, in consequence of this pro-

352 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ceeding, passed ten different acts, the objects of which were to
prevent the payment of those bills, and to secure the sums due
for the benefit of the original creditors. These acts appoint certain
commissioners, to whom reports are to be made of all French
property in the hands of British subjects, and who are empowered
to receive and sell goods and other effects — to collect debts, and
to deposit the proceeds in the bank of London, or in other safe
keeping, if preferred or required by parties interested. The mo-
neys deposited are to be invested in the purchase of public stock,
together with the interest or dividends arising from time to time,
to be eventually accounted for to the proprietors. The commis-
sioners have, likewise, a discretion, upon demand, to deliver over
their effects and moneys to such of the proprietors as do not reside
within the French dominions.

I shall not enter into a discussion of the propriety of these
acts of Great Britain. — It is sufficient to observe, that they are
attended with circumstances which very essentially discriminate
them from the thing for which they were quoted. The act of the
French government was in substance a compulsory assumption
of all the property of its citizens in foreign countries. This ex-
traordinary measure presented two options to the governments of
those countries — One. to consider the tranfer as virtually effected,
and to confiscate the property as being no longer that of the
individuals, but that of the government of France — the other, to
defeat the effect of her plan by bujnng up the property for the
benefit of the original creditors, in exclusion of the drafts which
they were compelled to draw. Great Britain appears to have
elected the latter course. If we suppose her sincere in the motive,
and there is fairness and fidelity in the execution, the issue will
be favorable, rather than detrimental, to the rights of private
property.

I have said, that there was an option to confiscate. A govern-
ment may rightfully confiscate the property of an adversary
government. No principle of justice or policy occurs to forbid
reprisals upon the public or national property of an enemy. That
case is foreign, in every view, to the principles which protect
private property. The exemption stipulated by the 10th article
of the treaty is accordingly restricted to the latter.

JEt. 38] CAMILLUS. 353

It appears, that the government of France, convinced by the
effect of the experiment, that the sequestration of the property of
the subjects of her enemies was impolitic, thought fit to rescind
it. — Thence, on the 29th of December, 1794, the convention
decreed as follows :

" The decrees concerning sequestration of the property of the
subjects of the powers at war with the republic, are annulled.
Such sums as have been paid by French citizens into the treasury,
in consequence of those decrees, will be reimbursed/'

In the course of the debates upon this decree, it was declared,
that the decrees which it was to repeal, had prepared the ruin of
commerce, and had severed, against the rights of nations, the obliga-
tions of merchants in different states. This is a direct admission,
that the sequestration was contrary to the law of nations.

As far as respects France, then, the precedent, upon the whole,
is a strong condemnation of the pretended right to confiscate or
sequester. This formal renunciation of the ground which was at
first taken, is a very emphatical protest against the principle of
the measure — It ought to serve us too as an instructive warning
against the employment of so mischievous and disgraceful an ex-
pedient. And as to England, as has been shown, the precedent
is foreign to the question.

Thus we perceive, that opinion and usage, far from supporting
the right to confiscate or sequester private property, on account
of national wars, when referred to the modern standard, turn
against that right, and coincide with the principle of the article
of the treaty under examination.

What remains to be offered will farther illustrate its propriety,
and reconcile it to all reflecting men.

Camillus.

no. XXI.

1796.

Since the closing of my last number, I have accidentally turn-
ed to a passage of Vattd, which is so pertinent to the immediate
g 23

354 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38

subject of that paper, that I cannot refrain from interrupting the
progress of the discussion, to quote it ; it is in these words (b. 3,
ch. 4, sec. 63) : " The sovereign, declaring war, can neither de-
tain those subjects of the enemy, who are within his dominions at
the time of the declaration, nor their effects. They came into his
country on the public faith. By permitting them, to enter his territo-
ries, and continue there, he tacitly promised them liberty, and security
for their return.'1'' This passage contains, explicitly, the prin-
ciple which is the general basis of my argument, namely, that the
permission to a foreigner to come with his effects into, and ac-
quire others within our country, in time of peace, virtually
pledges the public faith for the security of his person and pro-
perty, in the event of war. How can this be reconciled with the
natural right (controlled only by the customary law of nations)
which this writer admits, to confiscate the debts due by the sub-
jects of a state to its enemies ? I ask once more, can there be a
natural right to do that which includes a violation of faith?

It is plain, to a demonstration, that the rule laid down in this
passage, which is so just and perspicuous as to speak conviction
to the heart and understanding, unites the natural with the cus-
tomary law of nations, in a condemnation of the pretension to
confiscate or sequester the private property of our enemy, found
in our country at the breaking out of a war.

Let us now proceed to examine the policy and expediency of
such a pretension.

In this investigation, I shall assume, as a basis of argument,
the following position, That it is advantageous to nations to have
commerce with each other.

Commerce, it is manifest, like any other object of enterprise
or industry, will prosper in proportion as it is secure. Its secu-
rity, consequently, promoting its prosperit}^ extends its advan-
tages. Security is indeed essential to its having a due and regu-
lar course.

The pretension of a right to confiscate or sequester the effects
of foreign merchants, in the case in question, is, in its principle,
fatal to that necessary security. Its free exercise would destroy
external commerce ; or, which is nearly the same thing, reduce

tEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 355

it within the contracted limits of a game of hazard, where the
chance of large profits, accompanied with the great risks, would
tempt alone the adventurous and the desperate. Those enter-
prises, which, from circuitous or long voyages, slowness of sales
incident to the nature of certain commodities, the necessity of
credit, or from other causes, demand considerable time for their
completion, must be renounced. Credit, indeed, must be ban-
ished from all the operations of foreign commerce; an engine,
the importance of which, to its vigorous and successful prosecu-
tion, will be doubted by none, who will be guided by experience
or observation.

It cannot need amplification, to elucidate the truth of these
positions. The storms of war occur so suddenly and so often,
as to forbid the supposition, that the merchants of one country
would trust their property, to any extent, or for any duration
in another country, which was in the practice of confiscating or
sequestering the effects of its enemies, found within its territo-
ries, at the commencemnt of a war. That practice, therefore
would necessarily paralyze and wither the commerce of the coun-
try in which it obtained. Accordingly, nations attentive to
the cultivation of commerce, which formerly were betrayed, by
temporary considerations, into particular instances of that atro-
cious practice, have been led, by the experience of its mischiefs
to abstain from it in later times. They saw that to have persis
ed in it would have been to abandon competition on equal terms,
in the lucrative and beneficial field of commerce.

It is no answer to this, to say that the exercise of the right
might be ordinarily suspended, though the right itself might be
maintained, for extraordinary and great emergencies.

In the first place, as the ordinary forbearance of its exercise
would be taken by foreigners for evidence of an intention never
to exercise it, by which they would be enticed into large depo-
sites, that would not otherwise have taken place ; a departure
from the general course would always involve an act of treachery
and cruelty.

In the second place, the 'possibility of the occasional exercise
of such a right, if conceived to exist, would be, at least, a slow

356 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

poison, conducing to a sickly habit of commerce ; and, in a
series of time, would be productive of much more evil than
could be counterbalanced by any good which it might be possi-
ble to obtain in the contemplated emergency, by the use of the
expedient.

Let experience decide. Examples of confiscation and seques-
tration have been given. When did the dread of them prevent
a war ? When did it cripple an enemy, so as to disable him from
exertion, or force him into a submission to the views of his ad-
versary ? When did it even sensibly conspire to either of these
ends? If it has ever had any such effect, the evidence of it has
not come within my knowledge.

It is true, that between Great Britain and the United States,
the expectation of such effects is better warranted than perhaps
in any other cases that have existed ; because we commonly owe
a larger debt to that county, than is usual between nations, and
there is a relative state of things, which tends to a continuation
of this situation.

But how has the matter operated hitherto ? In the late war
between the two countries, certain states confiscated the debts
due from their citizens to British creditors, and these creditors
actually suffered great losses. The British cabinet must have
known, that it was possible the same thing might happen in
another war, and on a more general scale ; yet the appearances
were extremely strong, at a particular juncture, that it was their
plan, either from ill-will, from the belief that popular opinion
would ultimately drag our government into the war, from the
union of these two, or from other causes, to force us into hostili-
ties with them. Hence it appears, that the apprehension of acts
of confiscation, or sequestration, was not sufficient to deter from
hostile views, or to insure pacific dispositions.

It may be pretended, that the menace of this measure, had a
restraining influence on the subsequent conduct of Great Britain.
But if we ascribe nothing to the measures which our government
actually pursued, under the pressure of the provocations re-
ceived, we at least find, in the course of European events, a bet-
ter solution of a change of policy in the cabinet of Great Britain,

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 'dbl

than from the dread of a legislative piracy on the debts due to
their merchants.

The truth unfortunately is, that the passions of men stifle cal-
culation ; that nations the most attentive to pecuniary consider-
ations, easily surrender them to ambition, to jealousy, to anger,
or to revenge.

For the same reason, the actual experiment of an exercise of
the pretended right, by way of reprisal for an injury complained
of, would commonly be as inefficacious, as the menace of it, to
arrest general hostilities. Pride is roused ; resentment kindled ;
and where there is even no previous disposition to those hostili-
ties, the probability is, that they follow. Nations, like indivi-
duals, ill brook the idea of receding from their pretensions un-
der the rod, or of admitting the justice of an act of retaliation
or reprisal, by submitting to it. Thus we learn, from the king
of Prussia himself, that the sequestration of the Silesia debt, in-
stead of procuring the restoration for which it was designed, was
on the point of occasioning an open rupture between him and
Great Britain, when the supervention of a quarrel with France
diverted the storm, by rendering him necessary as an ally.

Perhaps it may be imagined, that the practice of confiscation
or sequestration would be more efficacious to wound and disable
Great Britain, in case of a war, than to prevent it. But this also
is a vain chimera ! A nation, that can, at pleasure, raise by
loan twenty millions sterling, would be in little danger of being
disconcerted or enfeebled in her military enterprises, by the tak-
ing away or arresting of three or four millions due to her mer-
chants. Did it produce distress and disorder among those whom
it affected and their connections? If that disorder was suf-
ficient to threaten a general derangement of mercantile credit,
and, with it, of the public finances, the pending war affords an
example, that the public purse or credit could be brought suc-
cessfully into action fir the support of the sufferers. Three or
four millions of exchequer bills applied in loans, would be likely
to suffice, to prevent the partial evil from growing into a nation-
al calamity.

But we forget, that as far as the interruption of the pay-

358 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ment of the debts due to her merchants could be supposed to
operate upon Great Britain, war itself would essentially answer
the purposes of confiscation or sequestration — by interrupting
trade and intercourse, it is in fact, in a great degree, a virtual
sequestration. Eemittances to any extent become impractica-
ble. There are few ways, in which, on account of the state
of war, it is lawful to make thern; and debtors are, for the
most part, enough disposed to embrace pretexts of procrastination.

The inconvenience of deferred payment would, therefore,
be felt by Great Britain, with little mitigation, from the
bare existence of war, without the necessity of our govern-
ment incurring the discredit and responsibility of a special
interference.

Indeed, as far as the dread of eventual loss can operate, it
ought, in a great measure to have its effect exclusive of the
idea of confiscation. Great Britain must want reflection, not to
be sensible, that in making war upon us, she makes war upon
her own merchants ; by the depredations upon our trade destroy-
ing those resources from which they are to be paid. If she be
indifferent to this consideration, it will be because she is govern-
ed by some motive or passion powerful enough to dispose her to
run the risk of the entire loss— in the reliance of obtaining
indemnification by the acquisitions of war, or in the terms of
peace.

Will it be said that the seizure of the debts would put in the
hands of our government a valuable resource for carrying on the
war? This, upon trial, would prove as fallacious as all the rest.
Various inducements would prevent debtors from paying into
the treasury. Some would decline it from conscientious scruples,
from a doubt of the rectitude of the thing— others, with intent to
make a merit with their creditors of the concealment, and to
favor their own future credit and advantage— others, from
a desire to retain the money in their own employment, and a great
number, from the apprehension that the treaty of peace might revive
their responsibility to the creditors, with the embarrassment to
themselves of getting back, as well as they could, the moneys
which they had paid into the treasury. Of this, our last

jEt. 38.] CAM1LLUS. 359

treaty of peace, in the opinion of able judges, gave an example-
— These causes and others, which do not as readily occur, would
oppose great obstacles to the execution of the measure.

But severe laws, inflicting heavy penalties, might compel it.
— Experience does not warrant a sanguine reliance upon this
expedient, in a case in which great opportunity of concealment
is united with strong motives of inclination or interest. — It would
require an inquisition, justly intolerable to a free people— penal-
ties, which would confound the due proportion between crime
and punishment, to detect or to deter from concealment and
evasion, and to execute the law. — Probably no means less effica-
cious than a revolutionary tribunal and a guillotine would go near to
answer the end. — There are but few, I trust, to whom these
would be welcome means.

"We may conclude, therefore, that the law would be evaded
to an extent, which would disappoint the expectations from it,
as a resource. Some moneys, no doubt, would be collected ; but
the probability is, that the amount would be insignificant, even
in the scale of a single campaign. — But, should the collection
prove as complete as it ordinarily is between debtor and
creditor, it would little, if at all, exceed the expense of one cam-
paign.

Hence we preceive, that, regarding the measure, either as a
mean of disabling our enemies, or as a resource to ourselves, its
consequence dwindles, upon a close survey; it cannot pretend
to a magnitude, which would apologize, either for a sacrifice of
national honor or candor, or for a deviation from the true prin-
ciples of commerce and credit.

But let us take a further view of its disadvantages.

A nation, in case of war, is under no responsibility for the
delinquencies or frauds of its citizens, who are debtors to those
of its enemy, if it does not specially interfere with the payment
of the debts which they owe. But, if it interposes its authority
to prevent the payment, it gives a claim of indemnification to
its adversary, for the intervening losses which those delinquen-
cies or frauds may occasion. — Whether, on the making of peace,
this would be insisted upon or waved, might depend much on

360 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

the good or ill success of the war; but every thing which adds
to the catalogue of our enemy's just pretensions, especially when
the fortune of war has been pretty equal, is an evil, either as an
additional obstacle to speedy peace, or as an ingredient to render
the terms of it less advantageous to ourselves. And it is, there-
fore, unwise in a government to increase the list of such pre-
tensions, by a measure, which, without utility to itself, adminis-
ters to the indolence of negligent, and to the avidity of fraudu-
lent, individuals.

Further — Every species of reprisal or annoyance, which a
power at war employs, contrary to liberality or justice, of doubtful
propriety, in the estimation of the law of nations, departing from
that moderation, which, in latter times, serves to mitigate the
severities of war, by furnishing a pretext or provocation to the
other side to resort to extremities, serves to embitter the spirit of
hostilities, and to extend its ravages. War is then apt to become
more sanguinary, more wasting, and every way more destructive.
This is a ground of serious reflection to every nation, both as it
regards humanity and policy; to this country it presents itself,
accompanied with considerations of peculiar force. A vastly-
extended sea-coast, overspread with defenceless towns, would offer
an abundant prey to an incensed and malignant enemy, having
the power to command the sea. The usages of modern war forbid
hostilities of this kind; and though they are not always respect-
ed, yet, as they are never violated, unless by way of retaliation
for a violation of them on the other side, without exciting the
reprobation of the impartial part of mankind, sullying the glory,
and blasting the reputation of the party which disregards them,
this consideration has, in general, force sufficient to induce an
observance of them. But the confiscation or sequestration of
private debts, or private property in public funds, now generally
regarded as an odious and unwarrantable measure, would, as be-
tween us and Great Britain, contain a poignant sting. Its effect
to exasperate, in an extreme degree, both the nation and govern-
ment of that country, cannot be doubted. A disposition to
retaliate, is a natural consequence ; and it would not be difficult
for us to be made to suffer beyond any possible degree of advan-

JEt. 38.1 CAMILLUS. 361

tage to be derived from the occasion of the retaliation. It were
much wiser to leave the property of British subjects, an untouched
pledge for the moderation of its government, in the mode of pro-
secuting the war.

Besides (as, if requisite, might be proved from the records of
history), in national controversies, it is of real importance to con-
ciliate the good opinion of mankind ; and it is even useful to pre-
serve or gain that of ourenemy. The latter facilitates accommo-
dation and peace; the former attracts good offices, friendly
interventions, sometimes direct support, from others. — The ex-
emplary conduct, in general, of our country, in our contest for
independence, was probably not a little serviceable to us in this
way; it secured, to the intrinsic goodness of our cause, every
collateral advantage, and gave it a popularity among nations,
unalloyed and unimpaired, which even stole into the cabinets of
princes. A contrary policy tends to contrary consequences.
Though nations, in the main, are governed by what they suppose
their interest, he must be imperfectly versed in human nature,
who thinks it indifferent, whether the maxims of a state tend to
excite kind or unkind dispositions in others, or who docs not
know, that these dispositions may insensibly mould or bias the
views of self-interest. — This were to suppose that rulers only rea-
son— do not feel ; in other words, are not men.

Moreover, the measures of war ought ever to look forward to
peace. The confiscation or sequestration of the private property
of an enemy must always be a point of serious discussion, when
interest or necessity leads to negotiations for peace. Unless when
absolutely prostrate by the war, restitution is likely to constitute
an ultimatum of the suffering party. It must be agreed to, or the
war protracted, and at last, it is probable, it must still be agreed
to. Should a refusal of restitution prolong the war for only one
year, the chance is, that more will be lost than was gained by the
confiscation. Should it be necessary finally to make it, alter
prolonging the war, the disadvantage will preponderate in a ratio
to the prolongation. Should it be, in the first instance, assented
to, what will have been gained? The temporary use of a fund
of inconsiderable moment, in the general issue of the war, at the

362 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

expense of justice, character, credit, and, perhaps, of having
sharpened the evils of war. How infinitely preferable to have
drawn an equal fund from our own resources, which, with good
management, is always practicable ! — If the restitution includes
damages, on account of the interference, for the failures of indi-
viduals, the loan will have been the most costly that could have
been made. It has been elsewhere observed, that our treaty of
peace with Great Britain gives an example of restitution. The
late one between France and Prussia gives another. This must
become every day more and more a matter of course, because the
immunity of mercantile debts becomes every day more and more
important to trade, better understood to be so. and more clearly
considered as enjoined by the principles of the law of nations.

Thus we see, that in reference to the simple question of war
and peace, the measure of confiscation or sequestration is marked
with every feature of impolicy.

"We have before seen, that the pretensions of a right to do
the one or the other, has a most inimical aspect towards com-
merce and credit.

Let us resume this view of the subject. The credit, which
our merchants have been able to obtain abroad, essentially in
Great Britain, has, from the first settlement of our country to
this day, been the animating principle of our foreign commerce.
This every merchant knows and feels ; — and every intelligent
merchant is sensible, that, for many years to come, the case must
continue the same. This, in our situation, is a peculiar reason,
of the utmost force, for renouncing the pretension in question.

The exercise of it, or the serious apprehension of its exercise,
would necessarily have one of two effects. It would deprive our
merchants of the credit, so important to them, or it would oblige
them to pa}' a premium for it, proportioned to the opinion of the
risk. Or, to speak more truly, it would combine the two effects ;
it would cramp credit, and subject what was given to a high pre-
mium. The most obvious and familiar principles of human
action establish, that the consideration for money or property,
lent or credited, is moderate or otherwise, according to the
opinion of security or hazard, and that the quantity of either to

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3ti3

be obtained, on loan or credit, is in a great degree contracted or
enlarged by the same rule.

Thus should we, in the operations of our trade, pay exorbi-
tantly for a pretension, which is of little value, or rather, which
is pernicious, even in the relations to which its utility is referred.
What folly to cherish it ! How much greater the folly ever to
think of exercising it! It never can be exercised hereafter, in
our country, without great and lasting mischief.

Instead of cherishing so odious a pretension, as " our best,
our only weapon of defence," — wisdom admonishes us to be
eager to cast it from us, as a weapon most dangerous to the
wearer, proscribed by the laws of nations, by the laws of honor,
and by every principle of sound policy.

Every merchant ought to desire that the most perfect tran-
quillity on this point, in foreign countries, should facilitate to
him, on the best and cheapest terms, the credit for which he has
occasion. And every other citizen ought to desire, that he may
be thus freed from a continual contribution, in the enhanced
price of every imported commodity he consumes, towards defray-
ing the premium which the want of that tranquillity is calcu-
lated to generate.

Camillus.

no. XXII.

1795.

The analogy of the stipulation in the 10th article, with stipu-
lations in our other treaties, and in the treaties between other
nations, is the remaining topic of discussion. After this, atten-
tion will be paid to such observations, by way of objection to the
article, as may not have been before expressly or virtually an-
swered.

The 20th article of our treaty of amity and commerce with
France, is in these words:

" For the better promoting of commerce, on both sides, it is

364 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

agreed, that if a war shall break out between the said two na-
tions, six months, after the proclamation of war, shall be allowed
to the merchants in the cities and towns where they live, for
selling and transporting their goods and merchandises; and if
any thing be taken from them, or any injury be done them
within that term by either party, or the people or subjects of
either, full satisfaction shall be made for the same."

The 18th article of our treaty of amity and commerce with
the United Netherlands, is in these words :

" For the better promoting of commerce, on both sides, it is
agreed, that if a war should break out between their high mighti-
nesses, the States General of the United Netherlands, and the
United States of America, there shall always be granted to the
subjects on each side, the term of nine months, after the date of
the rupture or the proclamation of war, to the end that thej^ may
retire with their effects and transport them where they please,
which it shall be lawful for them to do, as well as to sell and
transport their effects and goods, with all freedom and without
any hindrance, and without being able to proceed, during the
said term of nine months, to any arrest of their effects, much less
of their persons ; on the contrary, there shall be given them, for
their vessels and effects which they would carry away, passports
and safe conducts for the nearest ports of their respective coun-
tries, and for the time necessary for the voyage."

The 22d article of our treaty of amity and commerce with
Sweden, is in these words :

" In order to favor commerce on both sides, as much as pos-
sible, it is agreed, that in case war should break out between the
two nations, the term of nine months after the declaration of
war shall be allowed to the merchants and subjects respectively,
on one side and on the other, in order that they may withdraw
with their effects and movables, which they shall be at liberty to
carry off or to sell where they please, without the least obstacle
— nor shall any seize their effects, and much less their persons,
during the said nine months; but on the contrary, passports,
which shall be valid for a time necessary for their return, shall
be given them for their vessels and the effects which they shall

Mt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 365

be willing to carry with them — and, if any thing is taken from
them, or any injury is done to them by one of the parties, their
people and subjects, during the term above prescribed, full ami
entire satisfaction shall be made to them on that account. ,:

The 23d article of our treaty of amity and commerce with
Prussia, contains this provision :

" If war should arise between the two contracting parties, the
merchants of either country, then residing in the other, shall be
allowed to remain nine months, to collect their debts and settle
their affairs, and may depart freely, carrying off all their eil'ects
without molestation or hindrance."

These articles of four, and the only commercial treaties we
had with foreign powers, prior to the pending treaty with Great
Britain, though differing in terms, agree in substance ; except as
to time, which varies from six to nine months. And they clearly
amount to this, that upon the breaking out of a war between the
contracting parties in each case, there shall be, for a term of six
or nine months, full protection and security to the persons and
property of the subjects of one, which are then in the territories
of the other, with liberty to collect their debts,* to sell their
goods and merchandises, and to remove, with their effects, where-
soever they please. For this term of six or nine months, there
is a complete suspension of the pretended right to confiscate or
sequester, giving, or being designed to give, an opportunity to
withdraw the whole property which the subjects or citizens of
one party have in the country of the other.

The differences between these stipulations and that in the
article under examination are chiefly these: the latter is confined
to debts, property in the public funds and in public and private
banks, without any limitation of the duration of the protection.
The former comprehends, in addition, goods and merchandises,
with a limitation of the protection to a term of six or nine
months; but with the intent and supposition that the term al-
lowed may and will be adequate to entire security. The princi-

* The term "debts," is only expressed in the Prussian treaty, bul there are in
the other treaties, terms which include debts, and this is the manifest spirit and
intent of all.

366 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

pie, therefore, of all the stipulations is the same ; each aims at
putting the persons and property of the subjects of one enemy,
especially merchants, being within the country of the other
enemy at the commencement of a war, out of the reach of confis-
cation or sequestration.

The persons whose names are to our other treaties, on the
part of the United States, are Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane,
Arthur Lee, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson. The three first
are to the treaty with France — Mr. Adams is singly to that with
the United Netherlands — Dr. Franklin singly to that with Swe-
den, and these two, with Mr. Jefferson, are jointly to that with
Prussia. The treaty with Sweden was concluded in April, 1783 ;
that with Prussia, in August, 1785. These dates repel the idea,
that considerations of policy, relative to the war, might have
operated in the case.

We have, consequently, the sanction of all these characters
to the principle, which governed the stipulation ei.tered into by
Mr. Jay ; and not only from the ratification of the former treaties
at different periods, distant from each other, by different descrip-
tions of men in our public councils, but also from there never
having been heard, in the community, a lisp of murmur against
the stipulation, through a period of seventeen years, counting
from the date of the treaty with France, there is just ground to
infer a coincidence of the public opinion of the country.

I verily believe, that if, in the year 1783, a treaty had been
made with England, containing an article similar to the 10th in
the present treaty, it would have met with general acquies-
cence. The spirit of party had not then predisposed men's
minds to estimate the propriety of a measure according to the
agent, rather than according to its real fitness and quality.
What would then have been applauded as wise, liberal, equita-
ble, and expedient, is now, in more instances than one, under the
pestilential influence of that baneful spirit, condemned as impro-
vident, impolitic, and dangerous.

Our treaty with Prussia, the 23d article of which has been
cited, is indeed a model of liberality, which, for the principles
it contains, does honor to the parties, and has been in this

JEt. 38.] CAM I LI, US. 367

country a subject of deserved and unqualified admiration. It
contradicts, as if studiously, those principles of restriction and
exclusion, which are the foundations of the mercantile and navi-
gating system of Europe. It grants perfect freedom of conscience
and worship to the respective subjects and citizens, with no other
restraint than that they shall not insult the religion of others.
Adopting the rule, that free ships shall make free goods, it ex-
tends the protection to the persons as well as to the goods of
enemies. Enumerating, as contraband, only "arms, ammunition,
and military stores," it even provides that contraband articles
shall not be confiscated, but may be taken on the condition of
paying for them. It provides against embargoes of vessels and
effects. It expressly exempts women, children, scholars of every
faculty, cultivators of the earth, artisans, manufacturers, and fish-
ermen, unarmed and inhabitating unfortified towns, villages, and
places, and in general, all others whose occupations are for the
common subsistence and benefit of mankind, their houses, fields,
and goods, from molestation in their persons and employments,
and from burning, wasting, and destruction, in time of war ; and
stipulates payment at a reasonable price for what may be neces-
sarily taken from them for military use. It likewise protects
from seizure and confiscation, in time of war, vessels employed
in trade, and inhibits the granting commissions to private armed
vessels, empowering them to take or destroy such trading vessels,
or to interrupt their commerce ; and it makes a variety of ex-
cellent provisions to secure to prisoners of war, a humane treat-
ment.

These particulars are stated as evidence of the temper of the
day, and of a policy, which then prevailed, to bottom our system
with regard to foreign nations upon those grounds of moderation
and equity, by which reason, religion and philosophy had tem-
pered the harsh maxims of more early times. It is painful to
observe an effort to make the public opinion, in this respect,
retrograde, and to infect our councils with a spirit contrary to
these salutary advances towards improvement in true civilization
and humanity.

If we pass from our own treaties, to those between other

368 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

nations, we find that the provisions, which have been extracted
from ours, have very nearly become formulas in the conventions
of Europe. As examples of this may be consulted the following
articles of treaties between Great Britain and other powers (to
wit), the XVIIIth article of a treaty of peace and commerce with
Portugal, in 1642 — the XXXVIth article of a treaty of peace,
commerce, and alliance with Spain, in 1667 — the XlXth article
of a treaty of peace, and the lid of a treaty of commerce with
France, both in 1713, and the Xllth article of a treaty of com-
merce and navigation with Russia, in 1766.

The article with Portugal provides, that if difficulties and
doubts shall arise between the two nations, which give reason to
apprehend the interruption of commerce, public notice of it shall
be given to the subjects on both sides, and after that notice, two
years shall be allowed to carry away the merchandises and goods,
and in the mean time, there shall be no injury or prejudice done
to any person or goods on either side.

The articles with France, in addition to the provisions com-
mon in other cases, particularly stipulate, that during the term of
the protection (six months) " the subjects on each side shall
enjoy good and speedy justice, so that during the said space of
six months, they may be able to recover their goods and effects,
intrusted as well to the public, as to private persons."

The article with Russia besides stipulating an exemption from
confiscation for one year, with the privilege to remove and carry
away in safety, provides additionally, that the subjects of each
party " shall be further permitted, either at or before their de-
parture, to consign the effects which they shall not as yet have
disposed of, as well as the debts that shall be due to them, to
such persons as they shall think proper, in order to dispose of
them according to their desire and for their benefit ; which debts,
the debtors shall be obliged to pay in the same manner as if no
such rupture had happened."

All these articles are, with those of our treaties, analogous in
principle, as heretofore particularly explained, to the 10th article
of the treaty under discussion. That of the British treaty with
France designates expressly debts due from the public as well as

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS.

those duo from private persons. That with Russia goes the full
length of our tenth article ; empowering the creditors on i
side to assign the debts, which they are not able to collect within
the term of their residence, to whomsoever they think fit, for
their own benefit, and declaring that these debts shall be paid to
the assigns in the same manner as if no rupture had happem 1.

There is a document extant, which may fairly be supposed to
express the sense of the government of France, at the period
to which it relates, of the foundation ofthese stipulations. It is a
memorial of Mr. Bussy, minister from the court of France to that
of London, for negotiating- peace, dated in the year 1761, and
contains these passages : " As it is impracticable for two pri]
who make war with each other to agree between them which is the
aggressor ivith regard to the other* equity and humanity have
dictated these precautions, that where an unforeseen rupture
happens suddenly and without any previous declaration, foreign
vessels, which, navigating under the security of peace and of
treaties, happen, at the time of rupture, to be in either of the
respective ports, shall have time and full liberty to withdraw
themselves.

" This wise provision, so agreeable to the rules of good faith,
constitutes a part of the law of nations, and the article of the treaty
which sanctifies these precautions ought to be faithfully executed,
notwithstanding the breach of the other articles of the treaty
which is the natural consequence of the war.

" The courts of France and Great Britain used this salutary
precaution in the treaties of Utrecht and Aix-la*< Ihapelle."

These passages place the security stipulated in the treaties for
the persons and property of the subjects of one party found in
the country of another, at the beginning of a war, upon the
footing of its constituting a part of the law of nations, which may
be considered as a formal diplomatic recognition of the principle

* Thus we find it the sentiment of this minister, that it is impossible for two
princes who make war with each other, to agree which is tht aggrei ard I"

the other. And yet Mr. Jay was to extort from Great Britain an acknow ledgment,
that she was the aggressor with regard to lis, and was guilty of pusillanimity in w
the question.

g 24

370 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

for which we contend. As this position was not itself in dispute
between the two governments, but merely a collateral inference
from it, applicable to vessels taken at sea, prior to a declaration
of war, it may be regarded as a respectable testimony of the law
of nations on the principal point.

If the law of nations confers this exemption from seizure
upon vessels, which, at the time of the rupture, happen to be in
the respective ports of the belligerent parties, it is evident that it
must equally extend its protection to debts contracted in a course
of lawful trade. Vessels are particularly mentioned, because the
discussion turned ' upon vessels seized at sea. But the reference
to the treaties of Utrecht and Aix-la-Chapelle shows, that the
minister, in his observation, had in view the whole subject matter
of the articles of those treaties, which provide for the security of
merchants and their effects in the event of war.

This conformity in principle, of the article under examination,
with the provisions in so many treaties of our own and of other
nations, taken in connection with the comment of Mr. Bussy,
brings a very powerful support to the article. It is additional
and full evidence that our envoy, in agreeing to it, did not go
upon new and untrodden ground ; that, on the contrary, he was
in a beaten track ; that, in pursuing the dictates of reason, and
the better opinion of writers, as to the rule of the law of nations
respecting the point, he was, at the same time, pursuing the ex-
amples of all the other treaties which we had ourselves made, and
of many of those of other countries.

It is now incumbent upon me to perform my promise of
replying to such objections to the article as may remain unan-
swered by the preceding remarks. It is with pleasure I note
that the field is very narrow— that, indeed, there scarcely remains
any thing which is not so frivolous and impotent as almost to
forbid a serious replication. It will therefore be my aim to be
brief.

It is said, there is only an apparent reciprocity in the article,
millions being due on our side, and little or nothing on the
other.

The answer to this is, that no right being relinquished on

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 371

either side, no privilege granted, the stipulation amounting only
to a recognition of a rule of the law of nations, to a promise to
abstain from injustice and a breach of faith, there is no room for
an argument about reciprocity farther than to require that tin-
promise should be mutual, as is the case. This is the only equi-
valent which the nature of the subject demands or permits. It
would be dishonorable to accept a boon merely for an engage-
ment to fulfil a moral obligation. Indeed, as heretofore intimated,
the true rule of reciprocity in stipulations of treaties, is equal
right, not equal advantage from each several stipulation.

But it has been shown, that the stipulation will be beneficial
to us, by the confidence which it will give on the other side ,
obviating and avoiding the obstructions to trade, the injuries to,
and incumbrances upon, credit, naturally incident to the distrust
and apprehension, which, after the question had been once moved,
were to be expected. Here, if a compensation were required,
there is one. Let me add as a truth, which, perhaps, has no
exception, however uncongenial with the fashionable patriotic
creed — that, in the wise order of Providence, nations, in a tem-
poral sense, may safely trust the maxim, that the observance of
justice carries with it its own and a full reward.

It is also said, that having bound ourselves by treaty, we shall
hereafter lose the credit of moderation, which would attend a
forbearance to exercise the right. But it having been demon-
strated that no such right exists, we only renounce a claim to.
the negative merit of not committing injustice, and we acquire
the positive praise of exhibiting a willingness to renounce expli-
citly a pretension, which might be the instrument of oppression
and fraud. — It is always honorable to give proof of upright
intention.

It is further said, that under the protection of this stipulation
the king of Great Britain, who has already sjxcuhtcd in our f ami-
(the assertors would be puzzled to bring proof of the fact), may
engross the whole capital of the bank of the United States, and
thereby secure the uncontrolled direction of it — that he may hold
the stock in the name of his ambassador, or of some citizen of the

372 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

United States, perhaps a senator, who, if of the virtuous twenty,*
might be proud of the honor — that thus our citizens, in time of
peace, might experience the mortification of being beholden to
British directors for the accommodations they might want — that,
in time of war, our operations might be cramped at the pleasure
of his majesty, and according as he should see fit or not to ac-
commodate our government with loans — and that both in peace
and war we may be reduced to the abject condition of having the
whole capital of our national bank administered by his Britannic
majesty.

Shall I treat this rhapsody with seriousness or ridicule ?

The capital of the bank of the United States is ten millions
of dollars, little short, at the present market price, of three mil-
lions of pounds sterling; but, from the natural operation of such
a demand, in raising the price, it is not probable that much less
than four millions sterling would suffice to complete the monopoly.
I have never understood, that the private purse of his Britannic
majesty, if it be true, as asserted, that he has already witnessed a
relish for speculation in our funds (a fact, however, from which it
was natural to infer a more pacific disposition towards us), was so
very ample as conveniently to spare an item of such size for a
speculation across the Atlantic. But, perhaps, the national purse
will be brought to his aid. As this supposes a parliamentary
grant, new taxes and new loans, it does not seem to be a very
manageable thing, without disclosure of the object ; and, if dis-
closed, so very unexampled an attempt of a foreign government
would present a case completely out of the reach of all ordinary
rules, justifying, by the manifest danger to us, even war and the
confiscation of all that had been purchased. For let it be re-
membered, that the article does not protect the public property
of a foreign government, prince, or state, independent of the ob-
servation just made, that such a case would be without the reach
of ordinary rules. It may be added, that an attempt of this kind,
from the force of the pecuniary capital of Great Britain, would,
as a precedent, threaten and alarm all nations. Would conse-
quences like these be incurred?

* Those who advised to a ratification of the treaty.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 373

But let it be supposed, that the inclination shall exist, and
that all difficulties about funds have been surmounted — still, to
effect the plan, there must be, in all the stockholders, a willing-
ness to sell to the British king or his agents, as well as the will
and means, on his part, to purchase. Here, too, some impedi-
ments might be experienced : there are persons who might choose
to keep their property in the shape of bank stock, and live upon
the income of it, whom price would not readily tempt to part
with it. Besides, there is an additional obstacle to complete suc-
cess : — The United States are themselves the proprietors of two
millions of the bank stock.

Of two things, one, either the monopoly of his Britannic
majesty would be known (and it would be a pretty arduous task
to keep it a secret, especially if the stock was to stand, as suggest-
ed, in the name of his ambassador), or it would be unknown and
concealed under unsuspected names : In the former supposition,
the observations already made recur. There would be no pro-
tection to it from the article; and the extraordinary nature
of the case would warrant any thing. Would his majesty or the
parliament choose to trust so large a property in so perilous a
situation ?

If, to avoid this, the plan should be to keep the operation
unknown, the most effectual method would be to place the stock
in the names of our own citizens. This, it seems, would be
attended with no difficulty, since even our senators would be
ambitious of the honor: and if they should have qualms and
fears, others more compliant could, no doubt, be found amo
the numerous sectaries or adherents of Great Britain in our
country : probably some of the patriots would not be inexorable,
if properly solicited. Or, in the last resort, persons might be
sent from Great Britain to acquire naturalization for the express
purpose.

In this supposition, too, the article would be at the least inno-
cent. For its provisions are entirely foreign to the case of
standing in the names of our own citizens. It neither enla
nor abridges the power of the government in this respect.

Further, how will the article work the miracle of placing the

374 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

bank under the management of British directors ? It gives no
new rights, no new qualifications.

The constitution of the bank (section the 5th, 7th of the act
of incorporation) has provided, with solicitude, these important
guards against foreign or other sinister influence. 1. That
none but a citizen of the United States shall be eligible as a di-
rector. 2. That none but a stockholder, actually resident within
the United States, shall vote in the elections by proxy. 3. That
one fourth of the directors, who are to be elected annually, must
every year go out of the direction. 4. That a director may, at
any time, be removed and replaced by the stockholders at a
general meeting. 5. That a single share shall give one vote for
directors, while any number of shares, in the same person, co-
partnership or body politic, will not give more than thirty
votes.

Hence it is impossible, that the bank can be in the manage-
ment of British directors — a British subject being incapable of
being a director. It is also next to impossible, that an undue
British influence could operate in the choice of directors, out of
the number of our own citizens. The British king, or British
subjects out of the United Sates, could not even have a vote by
attorney, in the choice. Schemes of secret monopoly could not
be executed, because they would be betrayed, unless the secret
was confined to a small number. A small number, no one of
whom could have more than thirty votes, would be easily over-
ruled by the more numerous proprietors of single or a small
number of shares, with the addition of the votes of the United
States.

But here again it is to be remembered, that as to combina-
tion with our own citizens, in which they were to be ostensible
for any pernicious foreign project, the article under considera-
tion is perfectly nugatory. It can do neither good nor harm,
since it merely relates, as to the exemption from confiscation
and seizure on our part, to the known property of British sub-
jects.

It follows, therefore, that the dangers portrayed to us from
the speculating enterprises of his Britannic majesty, are the

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 375

vagaries of an over-heated imagination, or the contrivances of a
spirit of deception; and that so far as they could be supposed to
have the least color, it turns upon circumstances upon which
the treaty can have no influence whatever. In taking pains to
expose their futility, I have been principally led by the desire
of making my fellow-citizens sensible, in this instance, as in
others, of the extravagancies of the opposers of the treaty.

One artifice to render the article unacceptable has been to
put cases of extreme misconduct, on the other side, of flagrant
violations of the law of nations, of war, of justice, and of huma-
nity ; and to ask, whether, under such circumstances, the confis-
cation or sequestration of debts would not be justifiable? To
this the answer is, that if circumstances so extraordinary should
arise, as, without the treaty, would warrant so extraordinary an
act, they will equally warrant it under the treaty. For cases of
this kind are exceptions to all general rules. They would ex-
cuse the violation of an express or positive, as well as of a tacit
or virtual, pledge of the public faith : which describes the whole
difference between the existence and non-existence of the article
in question. They resemble those cases of extreme necessity
(through excessive hunger, for instance) which, in the eye of
the law of nature, will excuse the taking of the property of
another, or those cases of extreme abuse of authority of rulers,
which, amounting unequivocally to tyranny, are admitted to
justify forcible resistance to the established authorities. Consti-
tutions of government, laws, treaties, all give way to extremi-
ties of such a description : the point of obligation is, to distin-
guish them with sincerity, and not to indulge our passions and
interests, in substituting pretended for real cases.

A writer, who disgraces by adopting the name of Cicero,
makes a curious remark by way of objection. lie affirms that
the article is nugatory, because a treaty is dissolved by a state of
war, in which state the provision is designed to operate. If this
be true, the article is at least harmless, and the trouble of paint-
ing it in such terrific colors might have been spared. But it is
not true. Reason, writers, the practice of all nations, accord in
this position, that those stipulations which contemplate the state

376 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

of war, in other words, which are designed to operate in case of
war, preserve their force and obligation when war takes place.*
To what end else all the stipulations which have been cited from
so many treaties ?f

Previous to a conclusion I shall observe, barely with a view
to accuracy, that the article leaves unprotected all vessels, goods,
and merchandises — every species of property, indeed, except
debts between individuals and the property of individuals in the
public funds and in public and private banks. With this excep-
tion, whatever before may have been liable to confiscation or
sequestration, still remains so, notwithstanding any thing con-
tained in this article.

To overrate the value and force of our own arguments is a
natural foible of self-love — to be convinced without convincing-
others, is no uncommon fate of a writer or speaker ; but I am
more than ordinarily mistaken if every mind open to conviction,
will not have been satisfied by what has been offered — that the
tenth article of the treaty lately negotiated with Great Britain,
does nothing but confirm, by a positive agreement, a rule of the
law of nations — indicated by reason, supported by the better
opinion of writers, ratified by modern usage, dictated by justice
and good faith, recognized by formal acts and declarations of
different nations, witnessed by diplomatic testimony, sanctioned
by our treaties with other countries, and by treaties between
other countries, and conformable with sound policy and the true
interests of the United States.

The discussion has been drawn out to so great a length, be-
cause the objections to this article are amongst those which have
been urged with the greatest warmth and emphasis against the

* Vattel, B. iii., ch. x.

t This writer is as profligate as he is absurd. Besides imputing to Camillas,
in general terms, a number of things of which he never dreamt, he has the ef-
frontery to forge, as a literal quotation from him (calling it his own language and
designating it by inverted commas), a passage respecting the impressing of seamen.
which certainly not in terms, nor even in substance, upon fair construction, is to be
found in any thing he has written. Not having all the numbers of Cicero at hand-
I may mistake, in attributing to him the principal sentiment, which is from me-
mory, but I have under my eye the number which witnesses his forgery.

JEt. 38.] C A MILL US. 377

treaty, and its vindication from them, if satisfactory, must go far
towards securing to it the public suffrage. Citizens of Ainer ca
it is for you to perform your part of the task, it is for you to
weigh with candor the arguments which have been submitted to
your judgments; to consult, without bias, the integrity of your
hearts ; to exile prejudice, and to immolate on the altar of truth
the artifices of cabal and falsehood ! There can then be no dan-
ger that patriotism will have to lament, or national honor to
blush at the sentence which you shall pronounce.

The articles which adjust the matters of controversy between
the two countries, all those which are permanent, have now been
reviewed. Let me appeal to the consciences of those who have
accompanied me in the review ; if these articles were all that
composed the treaty, would it be the better that they should
exist — or that all the sources of rupture and war with Great Bri-
tain should have survived the negociation to extinguish them,
and should still actually subsist in full vigor ? If every enlight-
ened and honest man must prefer the former — then let me make
another observation, and put another question. The remaining
articles of the treaty, which constitute its commercial part, ex-
pire by their own limitation at the end of twelve years. It is in
the power of either party, consistently with the instrument, to
terminate them at the end of the expiration of two years after
the present war between France and Great Britain.

Is it at all probable that they can contain any thing so inju-
rious, considering the short duration which may be given to
them, as to counterbalance the important consideration of pre-
serving peace to this }roung country ; as to warrant the excessive
clamors which have been raised ; as to authorize the horrid ca-
lumnies which are vented; and to justify the systematic efforts
which are in operation to convulse our country and to hazard
even civil war ?*

Camillus.

* In applying the character of dishonesty and turpitude to the principle >>f con-
fiscation or sequestration, I am far from intending to brand as dishonest menal]

those whoso opinions favor it. I know there are some ardent spirits chargeable
with the error, of whose integrity I think well.

378 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Ms. 38.

NO. XXIII *

1795.
The preceding articles having adjusted those controversies
which threatened an open rupture between the two countries, it
remained to form such dispositions relative to the intercourse,
commerce, and navigation, of the parties, as should appear most
likely to preserve peace, and promote their mutual advantage.

Those who have considered with attention the interests of
commerce, will agree in the opinion, that its utility, as well as
general prosperity, would be most effectually advanced by a total
abolition of the restraints and regulations with which the jea-
lousies and rival policy of nations have embarrassed it. But
though we are not chargeable with having contributed to the es-
tablishment of these errors, so discouraging to the industry and
perplexing in the intercourse of nations, we found them so deeply
rooted and so extensively prevalent, that our voice and opinions
would have been little regarded, had we expressed a desire of a
system more liberal and advantageous to all.

The rights of commerce among nations between whom exist
no treaties, are imperfect.

" The law of nature," says Vattel, (b. i. s. 89) " gives to no
person whatever the least kind of right to sell what belongs to
him to another who does not want to buy it ; nor has any na-
tion that of selling its commodities or merchandise to a people
who are unwilling to have them. Every man and every nation
being perfectly at liberty to buy a thing that is to be sold, or
not to buy it, and to buy it of one rather than of another." —
" Every state has constantly," continues the same author, " a right
to prohibit the entrance of foreign merchandise, and the people
who are interested in this prohibition have no right to complain

of it." States by convention may turn these imperfect into

perfect rights, and thus a nation, not having naturally a perfect
ri^ht to carry on commerce with another, may acquire it by

* This and the seven succeeding numbers are from the pen of Rufus King, ex-
cepting the parts within brackets, which are in Hamilton's hand.— Ed.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3*79

treaty. A simple permission to trade with a nation, gives no per-
fect right to that trade ; it may be carried on so long as permit-
ted ; but the nation granting such permission is under no obli-
gation to continue it. A perfect right in one nation to carry on
commerce and trade with another nation can alone be procured
by treaty.

From the precarious nature of trade between nations, as well
as from the desire of obtaining special advantages and prefer-
ences in carrying it on, originated the earliest conventions on
the subject of commerce. The first commercial treaty that
placed the parties on a more secure and better footing in their
dealings with each other than existed in their respective inter-
course with other nations, inspired others with a desire to estab-
lish, by similar treaties, an equally advantageous arrangement.
Thus one treaty was followed by another, until, as was the case
when the United States became an independent power, all na-
tions had entered into extensive and complicated stipulations,
concerning their navigation, manufactures and commerce.

This being the actual condition of the commercial world,
when we arrived at our station in it, the like inducements to ren-
der certain that, which by the law of nations, was precarious,
and to participate in the advantages secured by national agree-
ments, prompted our government to propose to all, and to con-
clude with several, of the European nations, treaties of com-
merce.

Immediately after the conclusion of the war, Congress ap-
pointed Mr. Adams, Doctor Franklin, and Mr. Jefferson, joint
commissioners, to propose and conclude commercial treaties with
the different nations of Europe. This commission was opened
at Paris, and overtures were made to the different powers (in-
cluding Great Britain) through their ministers residing at J'
The basis of these numerous treaties, which Congress were de-
sirous to form, was, that the parties should respectively enjoy
the rights of the most favored nations. Various answers were
given by the foreign ministers, in behalf of their several nations-
But the treaty with Prussia was the only one concluded, of the
very great number proposed by the American commissioners.

380 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [>Et. 38.

Mr. Adams, in 1785, was removed to London, Dr. Franklin soon
after returned to America, and Mr. Jefferson succeeded him as
minister at Paris. Thus failed the project of forming commer-
cial treaties with almost every power in Europe. Treaties with
Russia, Denmark, Great Britain, Spain and Portugal, would have
been of importance ; but the scheme of extending treaties of
commerce to all the minor powers of Europe, not omitting his
holiness the pope, was, it must be acknowledged, somewhat
chimerical, and could not fail to have cast an air of ridicule on
the commissions that with great solemnity were opened at
Paris.

The imbecility of our national government, under the arti-
cles of confederation, was understood abroad as well as at home ;
and the opinions of characters in England, most inclined to
favor an extensive commercial connection between the two coun-
tries, were understood to have been opposed to the formation of
a commercial treaty with us ; since, from the defects of our arti-
cles of union, we were supposed to be destitute of the power re-
quisite to enforce the execution of the stipulations that such a
treaty might contain.

We must all remember the various and ill-digested laws for
the regulation of commerce, which were adopted by the several
states as substitutes for those commercial treaties, in the conclu-
sion of which our commissioners had been disappointed — the
embarrassments which proceeded from this source, joined to those
felt from the derangement of the national treasury, were the im-
mediate cause which assembled the convention at Philadelphia
in 1787. The result of this convention was the adoption of the
present Federal Constitution, the legislative and executive de-
partments of which each possess a power to regulate foreign
commerce ; the former, by enacting laws for that purpose — the
latter, by forming commercial treaties with foreign nations.

The opinion heretofore entertained by our government, re-
specting the utility of commercial treaties, is not equivocal ; and
it is probable that they will, in future, deem it expedient to
adjust their foreign trade by treaty, in preference to legislative
provisions, as far as it shall be found practicable, on terms of rea-

Mt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 381

sonable advantage. In the formation of the regulations thai
are legislative, being ex parte, the interest of those who establish
them is seen in its strongest light, while that of the other side
is rarely allowed its just weight. Pride and passion too frequent-
ly add their influence to carry these regulations beyond the lim-
its of moderation : restraints and exclusions on one side, beget
restraints and exclusions on the other; and these retaliatory laws
lead to, and often terminate in, open war: While, on the other
hand, by adjusting the commercial intercourse of nations by
treaty, the pretensions of the parties are candidly examined,
and the result of the discussion, it is fair to p resume, as well
from the experience of individuals in private affairs, as from that
of nations in their more important and complicated relations,
establishes those regulations which are best suited to the interests
of the parties, and which alone afford that stability and confi-
dence so essential to the success of commercial enterprise.

That our present government have thought a commercial
treaty with Great Britain would be advantageous, is evident, not
alone from the special and distinct commission given to Mr. Jay
to form one ; but likewise from the letter of Mr. Jefferson to
Mr. Hammond, of the 29th of November, 1791, which was the
first letter to that minister after his arrival; in which the Execu-
tive says: "with respect to the commerce of the two countries,
we have supposed that we saw, in several instances, regulations
on the part of your government, which, if reciprocally adopted,
would materially injure the interests of both nations • on this sub-
ject, too, I must beg the favor of you to say, whether you are
authorized to conclude or to negotiate arrangements with us,
which may fix the commerce between the two countries on prin-
ciples of reciprocal advantage."

Further, from the first session of Congress, to that during
which Mr. Jay's appointment took place, efforts were made to
discriminate, in our revenue and commercial laws, between those
nations with whom we had, and those with whom we had not,
commercial treaties — the avowed object of which discrimination
was, to place the latter nations on a less advantageous commer-
cial footing than the former, in order to induce them likewise to

382 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

form commercial treaties with, us ; and it cannot be forgotten by
those who affect to suppose that it was not expected that a treaty
of commerce would be formed by Mr. Jay, that Mr. Madison's
commercial resolutions, which were under consideration at the
time of Mr. Jay's appointment, grew out of, and were built upon,
a clause of Mr. Jefferson's report of the 26th December, 1793,
which asserts that Great Britain discovered no disposition to en-
fer into a commercial treaty with us. The report alluded to is
explicit in declaring a preference of friendly arrangements, by
treaties of commerce, to regulations by the acts of our legislature,
and authorizes the inference, under which the commercial reso-
lutions were brought forward, that the latter should be resorted
to, only when the former cannot be effected.

The power of the executive to form commercial treaties, and
the objection against the commercial articles before us, as an un-
constitutional interference with the legislative powers of Con-
gress, will, in the sequel, be distinctly examined, together with
other objections on the point of constitutionality.

Against the policy of regulating commerce by treaty, rather
than by acts of the legislature, it is said, that the legislative acts
can, but that a treaty cannot, be repealed. This remark is true,
and of weight against the formation of commercial treaties which
are to be of long duration, or like our commercial treaty with
France, which is permanent. For, as we are yearly advancing
in agriculture, manufactories, commerce, navigation, and strength,
our treaties of commerce, especially such as, by particular stipu-
lations, shall give to the parties other rights than those of the
most favored nation, ought to be of short duration, that, like
temporary laws, they may, at an early day, expire by their own
limitation, leaving the interests of the parties to a new adjust-
ment, founded on equity and mutual convenience.

Of this description are the commercial articles of the treaty
with Great Britain; for none of them can continue in force
more than twelve years ; and they may all expire, if either party
shall choose it, at the end of two years after the peace between
France and Great Britain.

Did the limits assigned to this defence admit a review of the

Mi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3S3

commercial and maritime codes of the principal European na-
tions, we should discover one prevailing feature to characterize
them all ; we should see the general or common interest of na-
tions, every where, placed in a subordinate rank, and their sepa-
rate advantage adopted, as the end to be attained by their respec-
tive laws — hence, one nation has enacted laws to protect their
manufactures, another to encourage and extend their naviga-
tion, a third to monopolize some important branch of trade, and
all have contributed to the creation of that complicated system
of regulations and restraints, which we see established through-
out the commercial world.

One branch, and a principal one of this system, that which
establishes the connection between the several European nations
and their colonies, merits our particular attention. An exact
knowledge of this connection would assist us in forming a just
estimate of the difficulties that stand in opposition to our claim
of free and full participation in the colony trade of Great
Britain.

Unlike the plan of colonization adopted by the ancient gov-
ernments, who, from the crowded population of their cities, sent
forth and established beneath their auspices new and indepen-
dent republics, the colonies of modern times have been planted
with entirely different views ; retained in a state of dependence
on the parent country, their connection has been made subser-
vient to that spirit of monopoly which has shown itself among
all the commercial powers. Every European nation has its colo-
nies, and for that reason prohibited all foreigners from trading to
them.

Important political events arise and pass in such quick suc-
cession, that we are liable to forget facts and opinions familiar to
us in periods within the ordinary powers of recollection. No
subject was more critically examined, or generally understood
before the American revolution, than that which respected the
connection between Great Britain and her colonies; all were
then agreed, that the colony trade "and navigation were subject
to the restraints and regulations of the parent state. It was not
against this dependence and -commercial monopoly that the colo-

384 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

nies complained ! They were willing to submit to them. It
was the unjust attempt to tax them, to raise a revenue from them,
without their consent, which combined that firm and spirited op-
position which effected a division of the empire — thus the Con-
gress of 1775, in their last address to the inhabitants of Great
Britain, say, " We cheerfully consent to such acts of the British
parliament as shall be restrained to the regulations of our exter-
nal commerce, for the purpose of securing the commercial advan-
tages of the whole empire to the mother country, and the commercial
benefit of its respective members; excluding every idea of taxa-
tion internal or external for the purpose of raising a revenue on
the subjects in America without their consent." The "colonial
codes of other nations are marked with the same spirit of mo-
nopoly—thus Portugal shuts out all foreigners from the Brazils
as well as from her Asiatic possessions, Spain from South Ame-
rica and her West India islands, France excludes all foreigners
from her Asiatic dominions, and limits within narrow bounds their
intercourse with her colonies in the West Indies. Holland
guards, with the miser's vigilance, the access to her spice islands,
and imitates, though with somewhat less rigor, the policy of the
other powers in her West India possessions. And England, by
her act of navigation, which has been in operation for more than
a century, asserted, and hitherto has uniformly adhered to, the
like system of exclusion and monopoly.

Notwithstanding the intimate alliance, the family compact,
between France and Spain, the former has not been able to pro-
cure admission into the Spanish colonial territories, where she
might have acquired immense wealth by the sale of her manu-
factures, her wines, and her Wandies. Holland, though a part
of the Spanish monarchy long after the discovery of America,
and the establishment of the Spanish power in that quarter of
the world, was unable after her separation from Spain, and the
• acknowledgment of her independence, even in the zenith of her
splendid power upon the oceau, to obtain by force or treaty a
share in the Spanish colony trade to South America. The rival
wars between the English and the Dutch towards the close of the
last century, which originated in commercial competition and

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 385

jealousy, were successively terminated without England yielding
the smallest departure from the exclusive commercial system,
contained in her act of navigation.

Great Britain, though maintaining her exclusive laws against
other nations at different periods, has shown the strongest desire
to share in the rich trade of Spain with her colonies. The war
that commenced in 1739, was occasioned by the firm, but irregular,
opposition of Spain to the contraband efforts of British traders.

The impediments Great Britain has uniformly met in her
attempts to extend her settlement in the Bay of Honduras, to
form establishments at Falkland's Island, and more recently at
Nootka Sound, afford additional proofs of the fixed policy of
Spain on the subject of her colony trade.

Portugal, whose political safety more than once has appeared
to depend upon the efficacious aid of Great Britain, does not
yield to her ally any portion of her valuable colonial commerce.

So uniform and persevering has been the practice of nations
on this point, that in the latest treaties of commerce between
France and Spain, between each of these powers and Great
Britain, between Great Britain, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, and
Portugal, we do not discover that any one of these powers has
consented to admit the others to a participation in the trade and
navigation to their respective colonies — the Assiento contract
for the supply of negroes to the Spanish colonies, which has
been made by Spain with several powers, is an unimportant and
solitary exception to this rule.

Montesquieu calls this law appropriating the colony commerce
to the benefit of the parent state, " A fundamental law of Europe.''
"It has been established," says this enlightened Frenchman, —
" that the metropolis or mother country alone shall trade in the
colonies, and that for very good reasons ; because the design
of the settlement, was the extension of commerce, not the foun-
dation of a city or new empire. Thus it is still a fundamental
law of Europe, that all commerce with a foreign colony shall be
regarded as a mere monopoly, punishable by the laws oi
country ; and in this case we are not to be directed by the who
and precedents of the ancients, which are not at all applicaith an
G 25

386 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

" It is likewise acknowledged that a commerce established
between the mother countries, does not include a permission to
trade in the colonies ; for these always continue in a state of pro-
hibition." [Montesquieu, Liv. xxi. chap, xvii.]

This subject is of too great importance not to be pursued a
little further. Principles connected with it, and such as will
continue to operate whether we sanction or condemn them, re-
main to be disclosed. It is true that the principal end of the
dominion that the European powers have held over their colo-
nies, has been the monopoly of their commerce, " since in their
exclusive trade (as has been observed by a sensible writer on the
subject) consists the principal advantages of colonies, which afford
neither revenue nor force for the defence of the parent country;"
but this is not the sole object. Some nations, and among them
Great Britain, have viewed the exclusive navigation and trade to
their colonies, in the light in which they have seen their coasting
trade and fisheries ; as a nursery for that body of seamen, whom
they have considered not only as necessary to the prosperity and
protection of commerce, but as essential to the defence and safety
of the state.

The situation of Great Britain in this respect is peculiar : when
compared with several of the neighboring powers, her numbers
and military forces are manifestly inferior. The armies kept on
foot in peace, as well as those brought into the field in war, by
the great nations in Europe, are so decidedly superior to those of
Great Britain, that were she a continental power, her rivals would
easily be an overmatch for her. The ocean is her fortification,
and her seamen alone are the soldiers who can defend it. When
Great Britain shall become an inferior maritime power, when her
enemy shall acquire a decisive superiority on the sea, what will
prevent a repetition of those conquests the examples of which we
find in her early history ? No subject has been more profoundly
thought on than this has been in Great Britain. Her policy, from
the date of her navigation act, has been guided by these consid-
erations— that her national safety depends on her wooden walls,
is a maxim as sacred in Britain, as it once was in Athens. Her
statesmen, her merchants, her manufacturers, and her yeomanry,
comprehend and believe it.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 387

Is it then surprising, that we see her so anxious to encourage
and extend her navigation, as to exclude as far as practicable,
foreigners from any share of her fisheries, her coasting, and her
colony trade ? Does not candor require us to admit, since her
national defence rests upon her navy, which again depends on
her seamen, which an extensive navigation can alone supply, that
Great Britain having more to risk, is among the last powers likely
to break in upon or materially to relinquish that system of exclu-
sive colony trade, that has so long and uniformly prevailed among
the great colonizing powers ?

America has her opinions, perhaps prejudices, on the subject
of commerce : she is, and, at least until she shall become a
naval power, will continue to be, without colonies. But her
laws manifest a similar spirit with those of other nations, in the
regulations which they prescribe for the government of her fishe-
ries and her coasting trade. The object of these laws is an exclu-
sion of foreign competition, in order to encourage and increase
her own navigation and seamen ; from which resources, not only
in wars between other nations, but likewise in those in which she
may be engaged, important commercial and national advantages
may be expected. These opinions deserve attention ; they have
already had and will continue to have a suitable influence with
her government. But we should remember, that other nations
have likewise their opinions and prejudices on these subjects;
opinions and prejudices not the less strong or deeply rooted for
having been transmitted to them through a series of past genera-
tions. Thus in England, not only the public opinion, but what
is more unconquerable, the private interests of many individuals
will oppose every change in the existing laws that may be sup-
posed likely to diminish their navigation, to limit their trade, or
in any measure to affect disadvantageously their established system
of national commerce.

It cannot have escaped notice, that we have among us cha-
racters who are unwilling to see stated the impediments that
stand in the way of the commercial arrangements, which they
contend, should be conceded to us by foreign nations, and who
are ready to charge those who faithfully expose them, with an

388 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

inclination to excuse or vindicate the unreasonable denials of our
commercial rivals, and with a desire to yield up the just preten-
sions of our country. The artifice seems too gross to be dangerous
with a sensible people, but the public should notwithstanding be
on their guard against it. — They should dispassionately examine
the real difficulties to be encountered in the formation of our com-
mercial treaties. They should inquire and ascertain how far
other nations, seeking the same advantages, have been able to
succeed. They should further compare the treaty in question
with those we have before made with other nations — the result
of such investigation so far from warranting the condemnation of
the commercial articles of the treaty before us, it is believed would
demonstrate that these articles make a wider breach in the British
commercial system than has ever before been made ; that on their
commercial dispositions they are preferable to any treaty we have
before concluded, and that there is rational ground to believe that
the treaty will have a tendency friendly to the agriculture, the
commerce, and the navigation of our country.

Camillus.

no. xxiv.

1795.

However uniform may have been the law of Europe in rela-
tion to the colonial establishments, no pains have been spared to
create an opinion that France has been guided by a more liberal
policy than the other colonizing powers, and that the regulations
of her colony trade were essentially dissimilar from theirs ; more-
over that her disinterestedness was so great, that she not long
since proposed to our government to establish by treaty, a trade
between us and her West India colonies equally free with that
which prevails in her own intercourse with them. The object of
these attempts is readily perceived.

As there was no probability, that Great Britain would consent
to our trading with her West India colonies on the same terms

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 389

as she herself does, as it was foreseen that limitations and condi-
tions would accompany any agreement that should be made on
this subject ; to extol the liberty of France, and exclaim against
the monopolizing views of Great Britain, were deemed suitable
means to excite a prejudice against the expected adjustment of
the commercial intercourse between us and the British West In-
dia colonies.

A comparison of the footing by which our trade stood with
the French and British West India colonies, after the completion
of our revolution, and before the present war in Europe, with a
concise exposition of the real views of France on the subject of a
new commercial treaty, will best demonstrate the want of candor
and patriotism in those Americans, who have submitted to be-
come agents in propagating these errors.

France, like England, has endeavored to secure the greatest
possible portion of advantage to herself, by her colonial laws, and
the concessions yielded to foreigners have been only such devia-
tions from an entire monopoly, as her own interest has rendered
indispensable. — France, in imitation of the English navigation
law, as early as 1727, established an ordinance, confirming to the
mother country the monopoly of the trade to her colonies, and
excluding thereby all foreigners. — Experience proved the necessi-
ty of moderating the rigor of their ordinance, and relaxations in
favor of a limited foreign intercourse existed at the time when
our commercial treaty with France was concluded, by the thirtieth
article of which, it is agreed, that France will continue to the
citizens of the United States, the free, ports, which have been and
are open in her West India islands, to be enjoyed agreeable to
the regulations which relate to them. — A system of regulations
relative to the trade of foreigners with the French islands, was
promulgated in 1784. This ordinance established one free port
at St. Lucie, another at Martinique, another atGaudaloupe, another
at Tobago, and three others at St. Domingo, to which foreign ves-
sels of the burthen of sixty tons and upwards might carry for sale,
woods of all sorts, pit coal, live animals, fatted beef, salted fish,
rice, Indian corn, vegetables, green hides, peltry, turpentine, and
tar.— This was followed by the arrests of September, 1785, which

390 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

by imposing heavy duties on foreign salted fish, and establishing
large bounties on those of the national or French fishery, materi-
ally affected the foreign commerce with the French islands in this
important article of supply and consumption.

Such were the duties on the foreign, and the premiums on
the national fish, that together they would have been equivalent
to a prohibition of the former, had the national fishery been able
to supply the consumption.

In return for these articles, which alone were permitted to be
imported by foreigners into the French islands, and which it will
be observed excluded some of our principal staples, especially
flour, they were allowed to purchase and bring away of the pro-
ductions of the islands, only molasses and rum.

All cotton, coffee, sugar, and other productions (rum and
molasses excepted) were prohibited ; and we could, except occa-
sionally by local relaxations of the general law, rightfully obtain
none of them from the French West India islands. This was
the footing of our trade under our treaty and the standing edict
which preceded the French revolution, and even this was liable
to still further limitations, whenever France should think proper
to impose them ; the treaty securing only a right to as free a
commerce as France should grant to other foreign nations.

Great Britain has permitted the importation into her West
India colonies of all the foreign articles, allowed by France to be
imported into her islands (salted fish and salted beef excepted),
and she moreover permitted the importation of foreign tobacco,
flour, meal, biscuit, wheat, and various other grains which France
prohibited. In return for these commodities, Great Britain per-
mitted the exportation from her islands to our country, of rum
and molasses, and moreover of sugar, coffee, cocoa, ginger, and-
pimento, together with such other articles as are allowed to be
carried from their islands to any other foreign country.

Great Britain prohibited the importation and exportation of
most of these articles to and from all foreign nations, except the
United States — France permitted the intercourse with her colo-
nies, under the same limitations to us in common with all other
foreign nations.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 391

The articles received from us by Great Britain, for the supply
of her West India islands, exceeded in variety those received
from us by France for the supply of her islands ; the British West
Indies were, therefore, in the ordinary and established course,
more extensive customers to us than the French West Indies.
Again, the artiqjes which we received from the British West In-
dies, and which we were prohibited from receiving from the
French West Indies, were among the most valuable of their pro-
ductions, and, from the force of habit, some of them are included
in the catalogue of articles of the first necessity in our consump-
tion. In point of supply, therefore, the British were better fur-
nishers, their colonial laws being much less restrictive than those
of France.

Though the regulations of the British West India trade were
more favorable to our agriculture than those of France, and
though the articles with which we were supplied from the British
islands were more numerous and valuable than those obtained
from the islands of France, the colony system of the latter was
preferable to that of the former in relation to our navigation.
France permitted our vessels of and above sixty tons burthen, to
carry and bring away the articles, not prohibited in the foreign
trade with her islands, while Great Britain confined the trade
to her own vessels and excluded those of all foreign nations.

Difference of situation, and not of principle, produced this
variety or distinction in the colony system of the two nations.
France being able from her resources to supply most of the arti-
cles requisite for the consumption of her West Indies, and from
her great population, having a proportionate demand for the
productions of her islands, she has been carefully restrictive in
the trade between her colonies and foreign countries as to the
articles of import and export.

All the productions of her islands must go to the mother
country, except rum and molasses ; these articles were not con-
fined to France, because they would have directly interfered
with the valuable manufacture of her brandies. On the other
hand, Great Britain, being less able from her internal resources
to supply the articles necessary for the consumption of her West

392 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Indies, and her population or home demand not requiring the
whole productions of her islands, she has been more liberal in
the trade allowed to be carried on between her colonies and
foreign countries as to the articles of import and export. But her
navigation being adequate to the whole trade of all her domin-
ions, while that of France required the addition of foreign bot-
toms, Great Britain has excluded entirely from her colony trade
the foreign vessels of all nations, while France has admitted
them to share in the foreign trade permitted to her "West India
islands.

Both France and Great Britain relax their colonial laws, in
times of occasional scarcity and when they are engaged in war ;
during which, the intercourse with their West India possessions
is laid more open to foreigners. The catalogue of supplies is
sometimes enlarged, and Great Britain, as well as France, during
these relaxations, permits American vessels to resort to, and en-
gage in the commerce of, their islands.

It is, notwithstanding, from the permanent laws alone of these
nations, that we are able to infer their views in relation to their
colony trade : the exceptions and deviations that become neces-
sary, by reason of accidental scarcity or the embarrassments of
war, serve only to explain more clearly the principles of the
permanent system.

The result of this comparison affords no support for the asser-
tion that France has been less exclusive, or more liberal in her
colony system, than Great Britain — both these nations have in
the establishment of their colonial laws alike disregarded the
interests of foreign nations, and have been equally under the
control of the principles of self-interest, which ever have, and
ever will govern the affairs of nations.*

Nothing can be more erroneous, than the opinion that any
nation is likely to yield up its own interest, in order, gratuitously,
to advance that of another. Yet we frequently hear declarations
of this kind, and too many honest citizens have surrendered them-

* The opinion heretofore cited of Montesquieu, a Frenchman, agreeing with
facts, is a positive testimony that the principle of the French system, like the
English, is monopoly.

iEr. 38.] CAMILLUS. 393

selves to this delusion — time and experience will cure us of this
folly.

Equal artifice has been practised, and no less credulity dis-
played, on the subject of a new treaty of commerce, which it is
boldly asserted, France from the most disinterested motives has
offered to us. It should be recollected that France already has a
treaty of commerce with us, a treaty that is not limited to two
years, nor twelve years, but one that is to endure for ever. This
treaty is as favorable to France as she can desire, or we in our
utmost fondness be disposed to make — it secures to her our ac-
quiescence in an exclusion from her Asiatic dominions, and in
fresh regulations as her interest shall dictate relative to our inter-
course with her West India possessions — it excludes us from her
fisheries on the banks of Newfoundland, which she was unwilling
to share with us, and it gives to her every commercial favor or
privilege which by treaty we may yield to any other nation,
freely when freely granted, and when otherwise on yielding the
same equivalent — her productions, her manufactures, her mer-
chandises, and her ships may come into all our ports to which
any other foreign productions, manufactures, merchandises, or
ships may come — they are severally to pay only the lowest duties
paid by any other nation, and no other nation in its intercourse
and trade with us, is, in any instance, to have a preference over
her. A variety of other regulations are inserted in this treaty
useful to France and not particularly disserviceable to us.

This treaty has been religiously observed and executed on
our part ; France has repeatedly violated it in the article which
makes enemy's goods free in neutral bottoms, while it is under
stood she has faithfully observed it in the article, that makes
neutral goods lawful prize when found in enemy bottoms.

If it be true, that nations in justice to themselves are bound
to decline the abandonment of their own interest, for the pur-
pose of promoting at their own expense and detriment, the in-
terest of others, ought we too readily to credit an opposite opin-
ion ? Ought we not to expect full proof of the sincerity of those
declarations, that are intended to produce a belief of this disin-
terested and self-denying course? Ought not the very proposal

394 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt, 38.

of such a measure, from its extraordinary nature, inspire circum-
spection, and put a prudent nation on its guard ? If, moreover,
the overture should occur at a moment when we are ascertained
that those who make it, desire, and are, in fact, pursuing objects
incompatible with the disinterestedness which it avows ? If
while it is said we wish that you should remain in peace with
those who hold this language, neglect no means to engage our
citizens to violate their neutral duties and thereby expose their
country to war; if when we are told " we rejoice in the freedom
of a sister republic," all the arts of intrigue, so much more dan-
gerous by our unsuspicious temper, and unlimited affection for
those who practise them, were employed to alienate our attach-
ment from our own government, and to throw us into a state of
anarchy ; if when the fascinating proposal of opening new chan-
nels of commerce, which were to give unbounded riches to our
merchants, was received with more caution than was desired, we
are told that in case of refusal, or evasion (mark the generosity),
France would repeal her existing laws which had been dictated
by an attachment to the Americans. What must have been our
infatuation, what the measure of our folly, had we given implicit
credit to words so much at variance with cotemporary actions ?
But it is asked, do not the letters of Mr. Genet to Mr. Jefferson,
which have been published, prove that France desired and offered
to enter into a new, disinterested, and liberal treaty of commerce
with us ? The question shall be fairly examined.

There are two letters from Mr. Genet on this subject. Imme-
diately after his arrival at Philadelphia, in a letter to Mr. Jeffer-
son of the 23d May, 1793, he says — "The French republic has
given it in charge to me to propose to your government to con-
secrate by a true family compact, by a national covenant, the
liberal and fraternal basis, on which it wishes to establish the
commercial and political system of two people, whose interests
are inseparably connected."

If the object of this proposal was a revision of our commer-
cial treaty, in order to render the intercourse between us more
free and advantageous, this minister was singularly unfortunate
in his expressions. He might have employed the fine phrase of

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 395

consecrating by a true family compact, by a national covenant,
the liberal and fraternal basis on which it was wished to establish
the commercial system of the two countries, and have been intel-
ligible ; but when he tells us, that he is instructed to open a
negotiation with our government, for the purpose of establishing
the commercial and political system of the two countries, what
are we to understand ? That trade and its regulations are alone
in view ? Or that a family compact establishing the political,
as well as the commercial system of the two nations, must in-
clude likewise the league or treaty of alliance, whereby the
strength and wealth of the two nations should be closely united
in the prosecution of a common object?

This ambiguous overture, if its meaning is not too plain to
allow the epithet, was received in the most friendly manner by
our government, and on the suggestion that the Senate are unit-
ed with the President in making treaties, it was understood be-
tween Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Genet, that the subject should be
deferred till the meeting of Congress.

Before that period, however, Mr. Genet, in a letter of the
30th of September, 1793, renews the proposal to open the ne-
gotiation relative to the proposed family compact between us
and France ; and proves to us that our benefit was its principal
exclusive object, by affectionately intimating in the conclusion
of his letter, that he is further instructed to tell us, in case of
refusal or evasion on our part to enter into this family agree-
ment, that France will repeal the laws dictated by the attach-
ment of the French for the Americans.

Had it before been doubted whether political engagements
relative to war, were intended to be connected with the pro-
posed treaty, these doubts must have disappeared on the receipt
of this second letter from Mr. Genet; the intimation that
the laws of France which operated favorably to our trade with
their dominions, would be repealed, in case we refused or
evaded the conclusion of a new treaty, cannot be reconciled
with the belief, that this treaty was sought for from motives
purely commercial, or solely to enlarge and add prosperity to
our trade.

396 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

Mr. Genet at this time had so outraged our government as
to have compelled them to request his recall; he must, therefore,
have been convinced, that no conference would he held with
him except on points of urgent importance, and such as would
not admit of delay. — He was, therefore, answered by Mr. Jeffer-
son on the 5th of November, that his letter had been laid before
the President, and would be considered with all the respect and
interest that its objects necessarily required ; and in Mr. Jefferson's
letter to Mr. Morris of the 23d of August, we are informed that
our government were desirous to go into a commercial negotia-
tion with France, and, therefore, requested that the powers given
to Mr. Genet on that subject should be renewed to his successor.
— It has not appeared that this was ever done. — His immediate
successor, Mr. Fauchet, it is believed, gave no evidence of his
having any powers relative to a commercial treaty ; and if re-
ports, which arrived with the present minister, having great
marks of authenticity, may be credited, he has power only to
digest the articles of such a treaty, not to conclude one.

Notwithstanding the internal evidence contained in the two
letters of Mr. Genet was sufficient to have satisfied a sensible
people, that something beyond a commercial treaty was connect-
ed with the proffered negotiation, and though this conjecture
acquired strength from the cautious prpcedure of our govern-
ment on the occasion : yet these letters, and that procedure, have
been pressed upon the public as conclusive evidence, that
France had offered, and our government refused, to enter into
a new treaty of commerce, that would have been highly bene-
ficial to our trade and navigation.

The refutation of this opinion so injurious to a reasonable
and salutary confidence in the integrity and patriotism of our
own executive government, and which the agents of its propa-
gation had spread far and wide, might have been more difficult,
had not the minister of France, for the purpose of justifying his
own conduct, published his hitherto secret instructions.

By these instructions it appears, that the essential object of
this proffered negotiation, was to engage the United States to
make common cause with France in the war then foreseen, and

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3'.)7

which soon broke out with Spain and England — That the advan-
tages to be yielded by a new commercial treaty were to be pur-
chased by our uniting with France in extending the empire of lib-
erty, in breaking up the colonial and monopolizing systems of all na-
tions, and finally in the emancipation of the new world* — This was
laying out a large and difficult work, in the accomplishment
whereof arduous and numerous perils must be met, to encounter
which we were called by no obligation to others, to avoid which
we were admonished by all the duties which require us to cher-
ish and preserve our own unparalleled freedom, prosperity and
happiness.

However contradictory this extraordinary project may ap-
pear to the friendly communications that had been made by the
French government to ours, however repugnant to the soothing
declarations pronounced by Mr. Genet, of the fraternal and gene-
rous sentiments of his country towards ours, and of the republi-
can frankness and sincerity that should characterize his deport-
ment ; let the following extracts from his instructions published
by himself in December, 1793, be consulted in confirmation of
this statement, and as an authentic exposition of the genuine
views of the French executive council in the mission of Mr.
Genet — viz. :

" The executive council have examined the instructions given
to the predecessors of the citizen Genet in America, and they
have seen with indignation, that while the good people of Ame-
rica have expressed to us their gratitude in the most lively manner,
and given us every testimony of their friendship), both Vergennes
and Montmorin have thought that the interests of France re-
quired, that the United States shoidd not obtain that political order
and consistency of which they were capable, because they would
thereby quickly attain a strength, which they might probably
be inclined to abuse. These ministers, therefore, enjoined it
upon the representatives of Louis XYI. in America, to hold a
passive conduct, and speak only of the personal vows of the
king for the prosperity of the United States. The same ma-

* This mad scheme, the joining in which was to be the price of the proffered
advantages, has since been renounced by France herself as a political chimera.

39S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

chiavelism directed tlie operatioDs of the war of independence,
the same duplicity presided in the negotiations of the peace.
The deputies of Congress had expressed a desire that the cabinet
of Versailles should favor the conquests of the Floridas, of Ca-
nada, of Nova Scotia ; but Louis and his ministers constantly
refused their countenance, regarding the possession of those
countries by Spain and England, as useful sources of disquietude
and anxiety to the Americans."

After declaring that the executive council proposes to itself a
different course, and that it approves of the overtures, which had
been made as well by General Washington, as by Mr. Jefferson,
to Mr. Ternant, relative to the means of renewing and consoli-
dating the commercial regulations between the two countries,
they proceed to declare further, "that they are inclined to ex-
tend the latitude of the proposed commercial treaty (observe, the
first proposal of a new commercial treaty came from us, and not
from France) by converting it into a national compact, whereby
the two people should combine their commercial with their political
interests, and should establish an intimate concert to befriend,
under all circumstances, the extension of the empire of liberty,
to guarantee the sovereignty of the people, and to punish the na-
tions who shall continue to adhere to a colonial system, and an
exclusive commerce, by declaring that the vessels of such na-
tions should not be received into the ports of the two contract-
ing parties. This agreement, which the French people will sup-
port with all the energy that distinguishes them, and of which
they have given so many proofs, will quickly contribute to the
emancipation of the new world. However vast this project may
appear, it will be easily accomplished, if the Americans will con-
cur in it, and in order to convince them of this, no pains must be
spared by the Citizen Genet. For independent of the benefits
that humanity will draw from the success of this negotiation,
France, at this moment, has a particular interest that requires us
to be prepared to act with efficacy against England and Spain,
if, as every circumstance announces, these, in hatred of our prin-
ciples, shall make war upon us." In this state of things, we ought
" to employ every means to reanimate the zeal of the Ameri-

iET. 38.] CAMILLUS. 3(J9

cans, who are also interested that we should disappoint the liber-
ticide designs of George the Third, of which they likewise may
possibly be an object." " The executive council has reason to
believe, that these reflections, joined to the great commercial advan-
tages which we are disposed to grant to the United States, will
decide their government to agree to all that the Citizen Genet
shall propose to them on our part — but as from the rumors re-
specting our interior, our finances, and our marine, the Ameri-
can administration may observe a wavering timid conduct ! The
executive council, in expectation that the American government
will finally decide to make common cause with us, charges the
Citizen Genet to take such steps as shall be most likely to serve
the cause of liberty and the freedom of the people."

In a supplemental instruction, the executive council say, " as
soon as the negotiation concerning a new treaty of commerce
shall be practicable, Citizen Genet must not omit to stipulate a
positive reciprocity of the exemption from the American tonnage
duty." The mutual naturalization of French and American citi-
zens, so far as respects commerce, that has been proposed by Mr.
Jefferson and approved by the executive council (this, it is pre-
sumed, in the eyes of certain characters, would be free from ob
jection, though the naturalization by treaty, of the subjects of
any nation but France, would be treason against the Constitution
and against liberty), "will render this exemption from the ton-
nage duties less offensive to the powers who have a right by
their treaties to claim the same exemption, for the casus faederis
by this mutual naturalization will be entirely changed in respect
to them. The reciprocal guarantee of the possessions of the two
nations, stipulated in the Xlth article of the treaty of 1778, must
form an essential clause in the new treaty to be concluded ! The
executive council, therefore, instructs Citizen Genet early to
sound the American government on this point, and to make it
an indispensable condition of a free trade to the French West
Indies, so interesting for the United States to obtain. It con-
cerns the peace and prosperity of the French nation, that a peo-
ple whose resources and strength increase in a ratio incalculable,
and who are placed so near to our rich colonies, should be held by

400 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 38.

explicit engagements to the preservation of these islands. There
will be the less difficulty in making these propositions relished
by the United States, as the great commerce which will be their
price, will indemnify them beforehand for the sacrifices they
must make in the sequel. Besides, the Americans cannot be
ignorant of the great disproportion between their means and
those of the French republic ; that for a long time the guarantee
will be merely nominal for them, while it will be real on the side
of France. And moreover, that we shall, without delay, take
measures to fulfil it on our part, by sending to the American ports,
a force sufficient to shelter them from all insults and dangers, and
to facilitate their intercourse with our islands and with France ''
— "and to the end that nothing may retard the conclusion of
the negotiations of Citizen Genet with the Americans, and that
he may have in his hands all the means which may be employed
in forwarding the success of his exertions to serve the cause of
liberty, the council, in addition to the full powers hereunto an-
nexed, has authorized the minister of marine to supply him with
a number of blank letters of marque, to be delivered to such
Frenchmen or Americans, as should equip privateers in Ame-
rica ; the minister of war will likewise supply him with commis-
sions in blank for the different grades of the army."*

These were extraordinary means to enable the French minis-
ter to conclude with our government a pacific treaty of com-
merce. The above extracts, though not an entire translation of
the whole of Mr. Genet's instructions, many parts of which are
foreign to the point in discussion, are a faithful abstract of such
parts of them, as relate to the principles and conduct of the
French monarchy towards us, and are as explanatory of the
views of the executive council on the subject of a new treaty of
commerce. — It will, I think, prove, if the assertions of that coun-
cil are to be credited, that the gratitude, of which we have heard
so much, ought not to be demanded on account of the principles

* This measure countenances a conclusion, that it was the intent of the instruc-
tions, he should take the measures he did with regard to privateering and military
expeditions from our territories, to force us into the war in spite of the " wavering
and timid conduct of our administration. "

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 401

that influenced the monarchy of France during our war, or sub-
sequent to the peace ; and furthermore, it will prove that the
real view of the French executive council in the mission of Mr.
Genet, was to engage us by advantages to be conceded in a new
commercial treaty, to make common cause with France, in the ex-
pected war with Great Britain and the coalesced powers. If,
then, the established footing of our trade with the British islands,
has been dictated by that colonial system of monopoly, which
forms a fundamental law in Europe ; and if, moreover, the opin-
ion that we could have procured a new and more liberal treaty
of commerce with France, without plunging our country in the
present war, is an error, that has been artfully imposed on the
public ; by exposing these truths, the examination of the treaty
with Great Britain is at once freed from the objections and as-
persions that have proceeded from these errors.

Camillus.

no. xxv.

1795.

It will be useful, as it will simplify the examination of the
commercial articles of the treaty, to bear in mind and preserve
the division, that we find established by the 12th, 13th, and the
14th and 15th articles ; each respects a particular branch or por-
tion of the trade between the two countries, the regulations
whereof differ from, and are severally independent of, each other.
Thus one is relative to the West Indies, another to the East In-
dies, and a third, distinct from both the former, respects our
trade with the British dominions in Europe.

That Great Britain will consent to place our trade with her
West India colonies upon an equally advantageous footing with
her own, is improbable ; this would be doing what none of the
great colonizing nations has done, or is likely to do ; it would
be to relinquish the principal ends of the establishment and
defence of her colonies ; it would be equivalent to making her
G 26

402 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 38.

islands in the West Indies the common property of Great Bri-
tain and America, for all commercial and profitable purposes ;
and exclusively her own in the burden of support and defence.

The senate have, however, and, I think, wisely, considered
the terms and conditions, on which it is agreed by the 12th arti-
cle, that we should participate in the trade of the British West
Indies, as less liberal than we may, with reason, expect. The
exclusion of all vessels above the burden of seventy tons, would
diminish the benefits and value of this trade ; and though we
cannot calculate upon obtaining by future negotiation a total re-
moval of a limitation on this subject, it is not altogether improba-
ble that a tonnage something larger may be procured.

Those who are conversant with our present intercourse with
the West Indies can best determine whether many vessels under
seventy tons burden are not, at this time, profitably employed in
that trade : It is believed to be true, that previous to our inde-
pendence, vessels of this burden were much engaged in that
employ as well in the southern as in the eastern states.

This limitation, though disadvantageous, is not the strongest
objection to the 12th article : the restraining or regulating of a
portion of our trade, which does not proceed from, and is inde-
pendent of, the treaty, forms a more decisive reason against the
article than any thing else that it contains.

The cause of this restraint is found in the commercial jealousy
and spirit of monopoly, which have so long reigned over the
trade of the colonies. Under our treaty with France and the
French colonial laws, it has been shown that we could not procure
from the French islands sugar, coffee, cocoa, cotton, or any of the
other productions, molasses and rum excepted. Great Britain
has seen it to be compatible with her interest to admit us to share
more extensively in the productions of her islands ; but she has
desired to place limitations on this intercourse. To have left it
entirely open and free, would have been to have enabled us not
only to supply ourselves by means of our own navigation, but to
have made it an instrument of the supply of other nations with
her West India productions.

When we reflect upon the established maxims of the colony

JEt. 38. j CAM1LLUS. 408

system, and moreover when we consider, that an entire freedom
of trade with the British West Indies might, at times, materially
raise the price of "West India productions on the British con-
sumers, the supply of whom is essentially a monopoly in the
hands of the British planters, we shall be the less inclined to be-
lieve that Great Britain will yield an unrestrained commerce with
her West India possessions to any nation whatever.

But if this was the object of the restraint, it may be asked,
why it was not confined to such enumerated articles as were of
the growth or production of her own islands, instead of being so
extended as to comprehend all molasses, sugar, coffee, cocoa, and
cotton, including even the cotton of the growth of our own coun-
try ? It is very possible that the circumstances of our native
cotton's becoming an article of export to foreign markets might
not have occurred to our negotiator — this would be the less ex-
traordinary, as heretofore it has not been cultivated, except in a
very limited degree, and as an article of export rather in the
manner of experiment than otherwise ; and, as moreover, from
the expense and difficulty of separating the seeds from the cotton,
we have been hardly able hitherto to class cotton among our ex-
ports. Its cultivation is said latterly to have become an object of
attention, in Georgia and South Carolina — still however it cannot
yet be considered as a staple commodity. — But from the recent
ingenious and simple machine for spinning cotton, it is hoped
that the cultivation may be extended, so that not only our own
domestic manufactures may be relieved from a dependence on
foreign supply, but the catalogue of our valuable exports enrich-
ed by the addition of this inestimable production.

In answer to the question that has been stated, it may be
further observed, that these enumerated articles, though the pro-
ductions of different territories, being so much alike as not easily
to be distinguished, it is probable that the difficulty in discrimi-
nating the productions of the British islands from those of a
different growth, was supposed to be so great, that an appre-
hension was entertained that the prohibition to re-export the
former would be easily evaded and illusory, while the latter re-
mained free.

404 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

This apprehension, however, it is believed, was carried too
far ; as, on a minute examination of the subject it will be found,
that our laws relative to drawback, with a few analogous provi-
sions in addition, can be made sufficiently to discriminate and
identify, on re-exportation, all such articles of the growth of the
British islands, as may be within our country, and that they will
afford the same security for a faithful and exact execution of the
prohibition to re-export such articles as that on which our own
government relies against frauds upon the revenue. [The appli-
cation of these laws, with the requisite additions and sanctions,
may be secured by a precise stipulation for that purpose in the
'reaty, in such manner as would afford an adequate guard against
material evasions.]

[But though the conduct of the senate in withholding their
assent of this article, is conceived, upon the whole, to be well
judged and wise, yet there were not wanting reasons of real
weight to induce our negotiator to agree to it as it stands.

The inviolability of the principles of the navigation act had
become a kind of axiom, incorporated in the habits of thinking of
the British government and nation. Precedent, it is known, has
great influence, as well upon the councils as upon the popular
opinions of nations ! — and there is, perhaps, no country in which
it has greater force than that of Great Britain. The precedent
of a serious and unequivocal innovation upon the system of the
navigation act, dissolved as it were the spell by which the public
prejudices had been chained to it. It took away a mighty argu-
ment derived from the past inflexibility of the system, and laid
the foundation for greater inroads upon opinion, for further and
greater innovations in practice. It served to strip the question
of every thing that was artificial and to bring it to the simple
test of real national interest, to be decided by that best of all
arbiters, experience.

It may, upon this ground, be strongly argued that the pre-
cedent of the privilege gained was of more importance than its
immediate extent — an argument certainly of real weight, and
which is sufficient to incline candid men to view the motives
that governed our negotiator in this particular, with favor, and the

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 405

opinion to which he yielded with respect. It is perhaps not un-
important by way of precedent, that the article, though not
established, is found in the treaty.]

Though the 12th article, so far as respects the terms and con-
ditions of the trade to the British Islands, forms no part of the
treaty, having been excepted, and made the subject of further
negotiation, it may nevertheless be useful to take notice of some
of the many ill-founded objections that have been made against
it : of this character is that which asserts, that the catalogue of
articles, permitted to be carried by us to the British Islands, may
be abridged at the pleasure of Great Britain, and so the trade may
be annihilated.

The article stipulates that we may carry to any of his majes-
ty's islands and ports in the West Indies, from the United
States, in American vessels, not exceeding seventy tons, any
goods or merchandises " being of the growth, manufacture or
production of the said states, which it is or may be lawful to carry
to the said islands, from the said states, in British vessels;" not
all such articles as it is and may be lawful to carry, but in the
disjunctive, all such as it is or may be lawful to carry; in other
words, all such articles as it is now lawful to carry, together with
such others as hereafter it may be lawful to carry ; the catalogue
may be enlarged, but cannot be diminished. [It may also be re-
marked incidentally, that this objection sounds ill in the
mouths of those who maintain the essentiality of the supplies of
this country, under all possible circumstances, to the British
West Indies; for if this position be true, there never can be
reasonable ground of apprehension of too little latitude in the
exportation in British vessels, which is to be the standard for
the exportation in ours.]

This article has been further criticised on account of the ad-
justment of the import and tonnage duties payable in this trade,
and it has been attempted to be shown that the footing on which
we were to share in the same would, on this account, be disad-
vantageous, and the competition unequal. What is the adjust-
ment ? The article proposes that British vessels employed in
this trade shall pay, on entering our ports, the alien tonnage duty

406 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

payable by all foreign vessels, which is now fifty cents per ton ;
further, the cargoes imported in British bottoms from British
West Indies, shall pay in our ports the same impost or duties,
that shall be payable on the like articles imported in American
bottoms ; and on the other side, that cargoes imported into the
British Islands, in American bottoms, shall pay the same impost
or duties that shall be payable on the like articles imported in
British bottoms — that is to say, the cargoes of each shall pay in
the ports of the other only native duties, it being understood that
those imposed in the British West Indies, on our productions,
are small and unimportant, while those imposed in our ports, on
the productions of the West Indies, are high, and important to
our revenue. — The vessels of each shall pay in the ports of the
other an equal alien tonnage duty, and our standard is adopted
as the common rule.

Is not this equal ? Can we expect or ask British vessels should
pay an alien tonnage duty in our ports, and that American ves-
sels should enter their ports freely, or on payment only of native
tonnage duties ? Can we in equity require them to pay, on the
importation of their cargoes in British vessels, an addition of ten
per cent on the duties payable on the importation of the like
articles in American vessels, and at the same time demand to pay
no higher or other duties on the cargoes carried in our vessels to
the British Islands, than those payable by them on the like arti-
cles imported in British vessels ? The very stating of the question
suggests to a candid mind an answer, that demonstrates the in-
justice of the objection. [To expect more, were to expect that
in a trade in which the opinions and practice of Europe contem-
plate every privilege granted for a foreign nation as a favor, we
were by treaty to secure a greater advantage to ourselves than
would be enjoyed by the nation which granted the privilege.]

But it is added that our laws impose a tonnage duty of six
cents per ton on the entry of American vessels engaged in foreign
trade, and it is not known that British vessels pay any tonnage
duty on their entry in their ports in the West Indies — and so
uniting the two entries, that is, the entry in the West Indies, and
the entry on a return to our ports, an American vessel will pay

.-Et. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 4()7

fifty-six cents per ton, when the British vessels will pay only
fifty cents per ton. If the British government impose no ton-
nage duty on their own vessels, and we do impose a tonnage
duty on ours, this certainly cannot form an objection against
them. They are as free to refrain from the imposition of a ton-
nage duty on their own ships, as we are to impose one on ours.
If their policy is wiser than ours in this respect, we are at liberty
to adopt it, by repealing the tonnage duty levied on American
navigation, which, if we please, may be confined to the particular
case ; the effect of such a measure, as far as it should extend,
though the duty is small, would be to add a proportionable ad-
vantage to our shipping in foreign competition. But the object
of the articles in this particular is to equalize, not the duties that
each may choose to impose on their own vessels, but those that
they shall impose on the vessels of each other ; and in this re-
spect the article is perfectly equal. [It is perhaps the first time
that the objection of inequality was founded on a circumstance
depending on the laws of the party affected by it, and removable
at his own option.]

This view of the subject authorizes a belief, that, in the revi-
sion of the article, a modification of it may be agreed to that will
prove satisfactory. Indeed, from the short duration of the article,
taken in connection with the expressions made use of towards
the close of it, relative to the renewal of the negotiation, for the
purpose of such further arrangements as shall conduce to the
mutual advantage and extension of this branch of commerce, we
may infer that Great Britain contemplates a more enlarged and
equal adjustment on this point.

The relaxations which now exist in the colonial systems, in
consequence of the necessities of war, and which will change to
our disadvantage with the return of peace, have been considered
by some as the permanent state of things. And this error has
had its influence in misleading the public in respect to the terms
and conditions on which we may reasonably expect to participate
in trade to the West Indies. But let it be remembered, that the
restoration of peace will bring with it a restoration of the laws of
limitation and exclusion, which constitute the colonial system.

408 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Our efforts therefore should be directed to such adjustment with
Great Britain on this point, as will secure to us a right after
the return of peace, to the greatest attainable portion of the
trade to her islands in the West Indies.

It has been alleged, should the expected modification of this
article retain its present stipulation on the subject of import and
tonnage duty, that as France by treaty may claim to enjoy the
rights and privileges of the most favored nation, she would
demand an exemption from the ten per cent, on the duties upon
the productions of the West Indies imported in foreign bottoms,
and would moreover be free to impose an alien tonnage on our
vessels entering her ports in the West Indies, equal to that im-
posed on her vessels in our ports. This is true. But in order to
make this demand, France must agree, by treaty, to open all her
ports in the West Indies, to give us a right to import into them
flour, bread, tobacco, and such other articles as Great Britain
should permit, and which France by her permanent system pro-
hibits ; she must also concede to us a right to purchase in her
islands, and bring away, sugar, coffee, and pimento, which by
the same system she also prohibits ; she must do all this, because,
by our treaty with her, she can only entitle herself to a special
privilege granted to another nation, by granting on her part to
us the equivalent of what was the consideration of our grant.
Should France be inclined to arrange the trade between us and her
islands-, we certainly shall not object; because, besides the right
to such an arrangement, it would be more advantageous to us than
that which now regulates our intercourse with her West Indies.

So much of the twelfth article as respects its duration and
the renewal of the negotiation previous to the expiration of two
years after the conclusion of the war, in order to agree in a new
arrangement on the subject of the West India trade, as well as
for the purpose of endeavoring to agree whether in any, and in
what cases, neutral vessels shall protect enemy's property, and in
what cases provisions, and other articles not generally contraband,
may become such, form a part of the treaty as ratified by the
president. These clauses sufficiently explain themselves, and
require no comment in this place. They, however, prove one

JEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 409

point, which is, that after every effort on the part of our nego-
tiator, the parties were not able to agree in the doctrine that free
bottoms should make free goods, nor in the cases in which alone
provisions and other articles not generally contraband, should be
deemed such. Leaving, therefore, both these points precisely as
they found them (except in respect to provisions, the payment
for which, when by the law of nations liable to capture as con-
traband, is secured) to be regulated by the existing law of nations,
it is stipulated to renew the negotiation on these points at the
epoch assigned for the future adjustment of the West India trade,
in order then to endeavor to agree in a conventional rule, which,
instead of the law of nations, should thereafter regulate the con-
duct of the parties in these respects.

[The eleventh article has been passed over in silence as being
merely introductory and formal.]

Camillus.

NO. XXVI.

1795.

The British trade to their possessions in the East Indies, as
well as to China, is a monopoly vested by the legislature in a
company of merchants. No other persons in Great Britain, nor
in any of her dominions or colonies, can send a vessel to, or
prosecute trade independent of the company, with any part of
Asia. The right to trade with their possessions in India is not
only refused to all British subjects, the India company excepted,
but is one, that Great Britain has never before yielded by treaty
to any foreign nation. By the terms of the charter to the India
company, among a variety of limitations, they are restrained and
confined to a direct trade between Asia and the port of London ;
they are prohibited from bringing any of the productions of
India or China directly to any part of America, as well to the
British colonies as to our territories; and moreover they are
restrained from carrying any of the productions of Asia, directly

410 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

to any part of Europe, or to any port in Great Britain, Scotland,
or Ireland, except the single port of London.

The 13th article stipulates, that our vessels shall be admitted
in all the sea-ports and harbors of the British territories in the
East Indies, and that our citizens may freely carry on a trade
between said territories and the United States, in all such
articles, of which the importation or exportation shall not be
entirely prohibited ; provided only, that when Great Britain is at
war, we may not export from their territories in India, without
the permission of their local government there, military stores,
naval stores, or rice. Our vessels shall pay in this trade, the
same tonnage duty as is paid by British vessels in our ports ; and
our cargoes on their importation and exportation shall pay no
other or higher charges or duties than shall be payable on the
same articles when imported or exported in British bottoms ;
but it is agreed that this trade shall be direct between the United
States and the said territories ; that the article shall not be
deemed to allow the vessels of the United States to carry on any
part of the coasting trade of the British territories in India, nor
to allow our citizens to settle or reside within the said territories,
or to go into the interior parts thereof, without the permission of
the British local government there.

The British trade to their territories in the East Indies is car-
ried on by a corporation, who have a monopoly against the great
body of British merchants. Our trade to the same territories
will be open to the skill and enterprise of every American
citizen. The British trade to these territories is direct, but con-
fined to the port of London ; our trade to the same must likewise
be direct, but may be carried on from and to all our principal
ports.

The article gives us a right in common with the India company
to carry to these territories, and to purchase and bring from
thence, all articles which may be carried to or purchased and
brought from the same, in British vessels : our cargoes paying
native duties, and our ships the same alien tonnage as British
ships pay in our ports. This trade is equally open to both
nations ; except when Great Britain is engaged in war, when the

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 411

consent of tlie British local government is required in order to
enable us to export naval stores, military stores, and rice ; a
limitation of small consequence ; none of the articles except nitre
being likely to form any part of our return cargoes. Though
this article is one against which the objection of a want of reci-
procity (so often, and so uncandidly urged against other parts of
the treaty) has not been preferred, it has not however escaped
censure.

It is said that we are already in the enjoyment of a less re-
strained commerce with the British territories in India, and that
the treaty will alter it for the worse : inasmuch as we thereby
incapacitate ourselves to carry on any part of the coasting
trade of the British territories in India, and as we relinquish the
profitable freights to be made between Bombay and Canton, and
likewise those sometimes obtained from the English territories in
Bengal to Ostend.

It would seem a sufficient answer to say, that this trade has
heretofore existed by the mere indulgence of those who permitted
it, that it was liable to variations, that a total exclusion, especial-
ly had it been of us in common with other foreign nations, could
have afforded no just ground of complaint: that the relaxation
which has hitherto given us admission to the British Indian ter-
ritories, was not a permanent, but a mere temporary and occa-
sional regulation, liable to alteration, and by no means to be
demanded as the basis of an intercourse to be adjusted by com-
pact, with a foreign nation, which would no longer leave the
power of alteration in either of the parties.

But in respect to the first objection, the article amounts to this,
that the rights which it does grant, shall not by implication be
construed to give a right to carry on any part of the British
coasting trade in India.

If we have before shared in this trade by permission, nothing
in the article will preclude us from enjoying the same in future.
If we did not participate in it, nothing in the article impairs either
the authority of the British local government to permit our par-
ticipation or our capacity to profit by such permission. This

412 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

objection, therefore, falls to the ground, since the coasting trade
remains as it was before the treaty was formed.*

[Further, according to my information] — It is not the trade
between the East Indies and China, as has been erroneously sup-
posed by some persons, but the exportation of rice and other
articles, which are exchanged between the British territories in
the hither and further Indies, that is denominated the coasting
trade of the British territories in India. The importance of this
trade is not well understood ; nor am I able to say whether we
have heretofore been allowed to carry it on. If we have, the
little that we have heard of it, leads to an opinion that it is not an
object of much consequence. Let it, however, be granted that
hereafter we shall not be allowed to engage in it. Shall we have
more reason to complain of this exclusion, than we have that we
are refused a share in the coasting trade of the European domin-
ions of Great Britain ? or that we are excluded from the coasting
trade between their islands in the "West Indies ? Or than the
British themselves have, that by our prohibiting tonnage duty
(being fifty cents per ton on entry of a foreign vessel, when our
own coasting vessels pay only six cents per ton, for a year's
license) they are excluded from sharing in our coasting trade ; a
branch of business that already employs a large proportion of our
whole navigation, and is daily increasing.

In respect to the second and third objections, it may be re-
marked, that so far as the trade has been heretofore enjoyed, it
has been in consequence of an exception from, and relaxation in,
the system by which the European commerce has been regulated;
that having depended on the mere occasional permission of the
local government, we may safely infer (though it may have been
supposed incompatible with the discretionary powers, vested in
that government, to confer by treaty a positive right to carry on
the trade in question) that so long, and as often as the interest

* [The terms used clearly denote this and nothing more ; they are — " It is also
understood that the permission granted by this article is not to extend to o'/aw."
This does not negative any pre-existing indulgence, but merely provides that the
main grant shall not convert the revocable indulgence, if any there was in this par-
ticular, into an irrevocable right by treaty.]

JEt. 38.] CAM1LLUS. 413

that has heretofore induced the grant of this permission shall
continue or exist, the permission will be continued or renewed.
The stipulation, restraining the trade, may, if the parties see fit,
be dispensed with, and the trade may be enlarged, or made free.
It being a contract only between them and us, the parties are free
to remodify it ; and without a formal alteration, if those in whose
favor the restraint is made consent to remove it, the other party
is released from the obligation to observe it.*

Again — Surat, which is in the neighborhood of Bombay, is
the emporium of Guzerat, and of the northern portion of the
Malabar coast ; the cottons shipped from Bombay to Canton, are
frequently first sent from Surat to Bombay. Surat belongs to
the native powers to which we have free access. If the trans-
portation of cotton and some few other commodities from the
coast of Malabar to Canton is an important branch of our com-
merce, what will prevent our prosecuting it from Surat or any
other free port in the hither Indies ?

That it may be undertaken from the ports of the native
powers is rendered probable by the circitmstance, that these
freights are supplied principally or alone by the native or black
merchants, whose residence would naturally be in the ports
under native jurisdiction more frequently than in those under
the jurisdiction of any of the foreign powers.

But is it not tune (and will not candor admit it) that the trade
to the Asiatic dominions of the European powers has usually
been confined to the nation to whom such territories belong ? In
our treaty with Holland, have we not even stipulated to respect

* [This has been affected to be questioned on account of what is called the per-
emptoriness of the expressions (to wit), " It is expressly agreed that the vessels of
the United States shall not carry, fyc." But there is no real room for the question-
In a contract between two parties, whether individuals or nations, where a restraint
is imposed upon one for the benefit of another, it is always an implied condition of
the restraint that it shall continue, unless dispensed with by the party for whose
benefit it is imposed. — Thus the British government in India may remove the re-
straint, by continuing the indulgence in this respect heretofore granted. — And it
seems to me clear that the law which the United States are to pass, for enforcing
the prohibition, may, with good faith, be qualified with this provision, " unless by
permission of the British government in India."]

414 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38'.

their monopoly of this trade ? And by our treaty with France,
a nation whose liberal policy is said to have laid us under eter-
nal obligations of gratitude, have we acquired the slightest pre-
tensions, much less a right, to resort to, or trade with any part of
their Asiatic territories ?

A late decree of the convention which opened to us the ports
in their West Indies, likewise laid open their remaining terri-
tories in Asia. But this measure proceeding from the necessities
of the war and their inability to carry on their foreign commerce,
will change hereafter, as heretofore it has done, with the establish-
ment of peace. Did this opinion require to be strengthened, it
is abundantly confirmed by the navigation act, decreed by the
convention : the operation whereof is suspended for the same
reason that induced the opening to foreigners that trade to their
colonies and territories in the West and East Indies.

The British for more than a hundred years excluded foreigners
from a share in their East India trade ; for a few years past they
relaxed in the rigor of this system. We have availed ourselves
of this circumstance, and shared with them in their India com-
merce. But this permission can be viewed only as an occasional
departure from a general law ; which may be affected by a
change of circumstances, the duration of which, therefore, is un-
certain. The loss and inconvenience to which our merchants
may be exposed from the prosecution of a tra4e, depending on
regulations arising from inconstant circumstances, and which fre-
quently vary, may, in some measure, be guarded against, where
the scene is not remote, and the alterations in the laws can be
known soon after they are made. But in the Asiatic and in our
other distant commerce, it is of importance that the laws under
which an adventure is begun, should be permanent. Losses to a
considerable amount have been experienced by some of our mer-
chants, who have undertaken distant voyages in the expecta-
tion of the continuation of these temporary regulations. The
trade, for example, with the Cape of Good Hope (which the
Dutch government ordinarily monopolize to their own people)
was some time since opened to foreigners, and some of our citi-
zens profited by it ; but others, who had engaged in large adven-

/Et. 38.] CAMILLUS. 415

tures to that market, suffered no small disappointment and loss
in finding themselves excluded, upon their arrival, by a repeal of
the permission to foreigners to trade there. It must then be con
sidered as an important object secured, in respect to the principal
proportion of our India trade, that alone which is capable of
being pursued as a branch of our commerce, that the treaty turns
a favor into a rigid, and that our direct intercourse with the
British territories in the East Indies, in all respects as broad as
that of Great Britain herself (except in the articles of rice, naval
and military stores, when Great Britain is engaged in war), instead
of being an uncertain and hazardous trade, as heretofore, from
its precarious nature, it has been, will, hereafter, be as certain as
any in which our merchants shall engage.

It is further alleged, by way of objection to this article, that
it does not secure to our citizens a right to reside and settle in
the British territories in India, without the consent of the British
local government. The observation that has been made on a
similar objection, in respect to the coasting trade in India, is
equally applicable to this. The article leaves subjects precisely
in the situation in which it found them. But let it be remem-
bered that the disproportion between the numbers of the native
Indians and the foreigners inhabiting their country, is more than
one thousand of the former to one of the latter — that the most
exact discipline and subordination among the foreigners are
therefore essential to the preservation of the British authority
over that country — that no foreigner, or even a British subject,
is allowed to reside there, except in the character of a servant of
the company, or of a licensed inhabitant — that it has long been
held as a sound opinion, that unrestrained liberty to the Euro-
peans to emigrate to, and settle among the Indians, would, in a
short time, overturn and destroy the British empire in India.
This danger would by no means be diminished by conferring a
right upon the Americans, freely to reside and settle in India —
that we shall be allowed to reside and settle there by permission
of the local British government, is fairly to be inferred from the
article. But an [absolute right] to an entire liberty on these
points, might evidently be dangerous to the British government
over India — [and in prudence could not have been stipulated.]

416 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 38.

The advantageous footing on which the trade is placed, is so
evident, that those who had no reliance on the objections urged
against it, but who, nevertheless, have been unwilling to allow
the treaty any merit on the score of this article, have endeavored
to show that our India trade is of little importance, and of small
value.

Whatever article can be supplied by the India Company, may
likewise be supplied by us, and some of them on better terms by
us, than by them. The reports of the committee of the directors
of the East India company, published in 1793, when their charter
was renewed, afford useful information on this subject, and dis-
close facts which show the advantages that we shall possess in
this trade over the company. They admit, that in the articles of
iron, wines, canvas, cordage, arms, and naval and military stores,
foreigners can enter into a beneficial competition with them ; and
that canvas and cordage, and we may add, all naval stores and
several other articles, can always be furnished in India by
foreigners, cheaper than by the company.

If we appreciate the advantage we have over them, in such
articles of supply as are of our own growth or production, as
well as in the wines not unusually procured by touching at Ma-
deira on the outward voyage to India, and compare it with the
advantage that they have over us in the few articles of choice,
which they purchase at the first hands, and which we must im-
port in order to re-export to India, it is probable that our cargoes
to India will, on the whole, be laid in as advantageously, if not
more so, than those of the India company. If we consider the
vast extent of territory, the numerous population, and the esta-
blished manufactures of India, so far from supposing that a free
trade to that country will be of little value to a young and enter-
prising nation, whose manufactures are still in their infancy, we
ought rather to conclude that it is a country with which we
should be solicitous to establish a free trade and intercourse.

Every one who has bestowed the slightest attention upon the
foreign manufactures consumed in our country, must have ob-
served the general and increasing use of those of India, owing to
the better terms on which they can be procured from Asia than

Mt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 417

from Europe. Though no document is at hand that will show
the value of the annual importations from India, it is stated by
Mr. Coxe, in his View of the United States, that the amount in
value of our importations from Asia is more than one fifth of the
value of our whole annual consumption of foreign commodities.
It is true that the porcelain, silks, nankeens, and teas of China
form a large portion of this annual importation. But, after a full
deduction on this account, a great and profitable branch of our
commerce will be found in our trade to the East Indies. It
should be remembered, [also,] that it is not the consumption
of our own country that regulates the quantity of India goods
that we import ; other countries have been supplied through us
with the fabrics and productions of both India and China. The
treaty will enlarge this demand.*

Several circumstances calculated to give our trade with Asia,
an advantage against foreign competition, and a preference to our
trade with Europe, are deserving of attention.

First. — The direct trade between us and Asia, including the
East Indies as well as China, cannot be prosecuted by the British
East India company, their ships being obliged to return to the
port of London, and there to discharge.

Second. — The difference between the duties on Asiatic goods
imported in American bottoms direct from Asia, and the duties
imposed on the same goods in foreign bottoms from Asia or from
Europe ; being on all articles a favorable discrimination, and in
the articles of teas, the duties on those imported in foreign bot-
toms being 50 per cent, higher than on those imported in Ame-
rican bottoms.

The particular difference of duties on Asiatic goods imported
in American and in foreign bottoms, so favorable to our own
navigation, will not be affected by the right reserved by Great
Britain to impose countervailing duties in certain cases ; that
right being relative to the intercourse between the United States
and the British territories in Europe.

* Perhaps from the certainty of the rights which it confers, it may invite a
foreign capital to extensive enterprises, in which the United States will he an en-
trepot between India and a great part of Europe.

g 27

418 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Third. — The European intercourse with Asia is, in most cases,
conducted by corporation or exclusive companies, and all expe-
rience has proved that in every species of business (that of bank-
ing and a few analogous employments excepted), in conducting
of which a competition shall exist between individuals and cor-
porations, the superior economy, enterprise, zeal, and perse-
verance of the former, will make them an overmatch for the
latter; and that while individuals acquire riches, corporations,
engaged in the same business, often sink their capital and be-
come bankrupt. The British East India company are moreover
burdened with various terms and conditions, which they are re-
quired to observe in their Asiatic trade, and which operate as
so many advantages in favor of their rivals in the supply of for-
eign markets. The company, for example, are obliged annu-
ally to invest a large capital in the purchase of British manufac-
tures to be exported and sold by them in India ; the loss on
these investments is considerable every year, as few of the ma-
nufactures which they are obliged to purchase, will sell in India
for their cost and charges ; besides, from the policy of protecting
the home manufactures, the company are, in a great measure,
shut out from supplying India goods for the home consumption
of Great Britain. Most of the goods which they import from
India, are re-exported with additional charges, incurred by the
regulations of the company, to foreign markets, in supplying of
which we shall be their rivals, as from the information of intelli-
gent merchants, it is a fact that Asiatic goods, including the teas
of China, are, [on an average,] cheaper within the United States
than in Great Britain.

Fourth. — The manufactures of Asia are not only cheaper here
than in Europe, but in general they are cheaper than goods of
equal quality of European manufacture. So long as from the
cheapness of subsistence and the immense population of India
(the inhabitants of the British territories only being estimated at
forty millions) the labor of a manufacturer can be procured from
two to three pence sterling per day, the similar manufactures of
Europe, aided with all their ingenious machinery, is likely, on a
fair competition, in almost every instance, to be excluded by

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 419

those of India. So apprehensive have the British government
been of endangering their home manufactures by the permission
of Asiatic goods to be consumed in Great Britain, that they
have imposed eighteen per cent, duties on the gross sales of all
India muslins, which is equal to twenty-two per cent, on their
prime cost. The duties on coarser India goods are still higher,
and a long catalogue of Asiatic articles, including all stained
and printed goods, is prohibited from being consumed in Great
Britain.

The British manufacturers were not satisfied even with this
prohibitory system ; and on the late renewal of the company's
charter, they urged the total exclusion from British consump-
tion of all India goods, and moreover proposed that the company
should be held to import annually from India a large amount of
raw materials, and particularly cotton, for the supply of the Bri-
tish manufacturers.

Those facts are noticed to show the advantages to be derived
from a free access to the India market, from whence we may
obtain those goods which would be extensively consumed even
in the first manufacturing nations of Europe, did not the security
of their manufactories require their exclusion.*

Camillus.

NO. XXVII.

1795.

The third article contains the terms and conditions of the
trade and intercourse that it authorizes between us and the Bri-
tish colonies on the American continent. The twelfth article
was intended to adjust the trade between us and the British

[* Great Britain has made it a serious point, in which she has in more than one
instance succeeded, to engage foreign powers (the emperor was one) to renounce
establishments for carrying on the trade with India, from their own territories :
yet this treaty opens all the territories to us. And yet it is not only denied merit,
but criminated, in this very particular.]

420 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

islands in the West Indies. The thirteenth article secures to us
a direct trade with the British territories in the East Indies ; and
it is the office of the fourteenth and the fifteenth articles, to ascer-
tain and establish the terms of the intercourse and trade be-
tween the territories of the United States and the British domi-
nions in Europe.

The fourteenth article establishes a perfect and reciprocal li-
berty of commerce and navigation between the territories of the
United States and of the British dominions in Europe ; stipulates
that the people and inhabitants of the two countries respectively,
namely, of the United States, and of the British dominions in
Europe, shall have liberty to come with their ships and cargoes
to the ports, cities, and places of each other, within the territo-
ries and dominions aforesaid, to resort and reside there, without
limitation of time, to hire houses and stores for the purpose of
commerce ; and that the merchants and traders on each side shall
enjoy, for their commerce, the fullest protection and security,
subject, notwithstanding, in respect to the stipulations of this ar-
ticle, to the laws of the two nations respectively.

As this article, in the customary language employed in the
introductory articles of commercial treaties, speaks of a perfect
liberty of commerce and navigation, without excepting any com-
modity, or specifying any impost or duty, it was possible that a
latitude or freedom of trade, inconsistent with the revenue laws,
and policy of the two nations, might have been claimed under
it ; hence the propriety of the provision with which the article
concludes, and which reserves to the parties respectively, the
power of avoiding this inconvenience, by continuing and enact-
ing such laws as may be proper for the purpose.

But as under this power again, partial duties, and even par-
tial exclusions, might have been established, whereby ships and
merchandises, as well as the articles of the growth, produce, or
manufacture of one of the parties, might have been made liable
to higher duties and imposts in the territories of the other, than
the ships and similar merchandises, and articles of the growth,
produce, or manufacture of other nations ; or whereby one of
the parties might prohibit the importation or exportation, by the

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 421

other, of any article to and from his territories, the importation
or exportation whereof was at the same time free to some other
nation : in order to prevent such inequalities, and to secure ef-
fectually to the parties, a right to carry on their trade with each
other on terms equally advantageous and extensive, with those
established by either, with any other nation, the fifteenth arti-
cle stipulates —

1. That no other or higher duty shall be exacted or paid, on
the ships and merchandises, nor on the articles of the growth,
produce, or manufacture of one of the parties, on their entry or
importation into the territories of the other, than shall be paya-
ble on the like ships, and merchandises, and on similar articles
of the growth, produce, or manufacture of any other nation.

2. That no article, the importation or exportation of which by
either party, to or from the territories of the other, is prohibited,
shall be imported or exported to or from the same by any other
foreign nation ; and that every article allowed to be imported or
exported to or from the territories of either party, by any fo-
reign nation, may be imported or exported to or from the same,
by the parties respectively.

By these stipulations it is agreed, that the people and inhabit-
ants of the United States and of the British dominions in Europe,
shall have the right to carry on trade between the said territo-
ries in all articles and commodities in which any other foreign
nation may trade with either of the parties ; that the impost or
duties on any article in the course of such trade, shall be no
other or higher than the lowest imposts or duties paid by any
other foreign nation on the like article ; that both parties shall
remain free, totally to prohibit the importation or exportation,
to or from their respective territories, of any species of goods or
merchandise, or to increase the existing duties, or to impose new
ones on the importation of any species of goods or merchandises,
into their respective territories; such prohibitions and duties
operating equally against all foreign nations. So far as respects
the interchange of commodities between the parties, these stipu-
lations breathe the spirit of reciprocity : the residue of the fif-
teenth article principally relates to the navigation which the
parties shall employ in this trade.

422 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

The first clause of the 15th article, in the spirit of those trea-
ties which mutually confer the right of the most favored nations,
stipulates that no other or higher duties shall be paid by the
ships of the one party in the ports of the other, than such as are
paid by the like vessels of all other nations.

By our laws, a difference exists between the tonnage duty
paid by an American vessel, and that paid by a foreign vessel in
our ports ; the American vessel pays only six cents per ton on
her entry, the foreign vessel, on her entry, pays fifty cents per
ton, and about twenty per cent, more duties on all teas import-
ed from Europe, and ten per cent, more duties on the importa-
tion of other goods, than are payable on the importation of the
same goods, in an American vessel.

By the British laws, the difference between the duties paid
by British and foreign vessels in the British ports in Europe, is
less than that which exists in our ports : the consequence is, that
a British vessel, of a given burden, pays considerably more ton-
nage duties in the trade between our territories and the British
ports in Europe, than is paid by an American vessel of the same
burden, engaged in the same trade.

The trade being laid open to both parties, the principle of
equalization of duties was very naturally deemed an equitable
basis of treaty. This could be effected by lowering the Ameri-
can alien duties to the British standard, or by raising those of
Great Britain to the American standard. The former might
have been inconvenient to our revenue, [especially since, if it
was not general, it would have formed, in respect to foreign na-
tions, an unpleasant discrimination in our laws.]

The American tonnage duty, therefore, was left to operate ;
and by the 15th article, it is agreed, that the British government
shall reserve a right to raise the tonnage duty on our vessels
entering their ports in Europe, so as to make it equal to the ton-
nage duty payable by their vessels entering our ports : and in
order to balance the difference of duties on goods imported into
our ports by American or by British vessels, the effect whereof is
the same as that which proceeds from an alien tonnage duty, the
art cle further agrees, that the British government shall reserve a

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 423

right to impose such duty as may be adequate to effect this end.
The preceding clause of this article stipulates, that the vessels
and cargoes of each shall pay no higher or other duties than
those imposed on the like vessels and cargoes of all other nations ;
it was, therefore, necessary to reserve a right to increase against
us, their alien tonnage duty, and to impose the countervailing
duty in question ; as without such reservation, the same could
not have been done, unless by laws equally operating against all
other nations — [which would have been unjust in reference to
such of them as might not, like us, have discriminated in their
duties between their own and foreign vessels.]

Two methods have been suggested, by which this counter-
vailing power might be executed.

One by imposing a pro rata duty on the importation of goods
into the British ports in Europe by American vessels, equal to
the difference between the duties payable in our ports on the
importation of goods by American or British vessels.

[The other,] by imposing the identical duty on the exporta-
tion of goods from the British ports in Europe, by American
vessels, which forms the difference between the duties payable
on the importation of the same goods into our ports by American
or British vessels.

As the articles imported by our vessels into the British ports
in Europe, are dissimilar from those imported from the same into
our ports, one rule of difference would not effect the equalization
sought for ; and as our difference of duties is not the same on all
articles, being higher on some than on others — [and as, moreover,
the quantities and amount of different articles differ widely, and
are liable to continual proportional variations,] no uniform [ave-
rage] rule of countervailing these differences can be devised ; the
[correct] execution, therefore, of this power, in the method first
suggested, is impracticable, and, [it is presumed,] must be dis-
carded.

The power, then, [it would seem,] can only be [equitably]
exercised by imposing on the articles which we shall export in
American vessels from the British ports in Europe, a duty iden-
tically the same as that which constitutes, in any case, the differ-

424 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

ence of duty, payable in our ports, on the same articles imported
from the British ports in Europe, by a British or American ves-
sel. Thus they may impose on tea and other Asiatic goods, as
well as on the European goods, which we shall export from the
British ports in Europe, the identical duty or the same sum
which constitutes the difference of duties payable in our ports on
the importation from thence of the same articles by an American
or a British vessel.

The right to countervail our alien tonnage duty by imposing
an alien tonnage duty on our vessels entering the British ports in
Europe, equal to that which shall be payable on their vessels en-
tering our ports, will continue so long as the commercial treaty
shall endure, and will apply to any future increase of the tonnage
duty on foreign vessels that we may establish; it is however
stipulated in the conclusion of the fifteenth article, that we shall
abstain from increasing the tonnage duty on British vessels, and
also from increasing the difference that now exists between the
duties payable on the importation of any articles into our ports
in British or in American vessels, until the expiration of two
years after the termination of the war between France and Great
Britain. But we are free to increase the one or the other, after
the expiration of that period ; and though the British govern-
ment will have a right to countervail, by additional tonnage duties,
on our vessels, any increase of that duty on their vessels ; yet
they will have no right to countervail any increase of the differ-
ence between the duties payable on the importation of any arti-
cles into our ports, in British or in American vessels, unless by a
duty common to all foreign nations ; the right reserved on this
subject, being confined to the difference that now exists, will not
reach such future increase.*

From this analysis of the 14th and 15th articles, we are the
better enabled to perceive the truth of the following propositions.

* How ridiculous, then, the argument, if the basis of it were otherwise true,
that the treaty, by tying up the government from future discrimination, has
prostrated our navigation before Great Britain ! Can a restraint which is only to
operate the short term of two years after the termination of the present war, have
the mighty effect of sacrificing our navigation 1

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 425

1. As, for the purpose of encouraging or protecting the agri-
culture and manufactures of Great Britain, several of our pro-
ductions, in common with similar productions of the other na-
tions, are prohibited from being imported into the British ports in
Europe ; we are free, whenever our interest shall require it, also
to exclude any of the productions of the British dominions from
being imported into our ports, extending such exclusions, as they
do, to the like manufactures and productions of foreign nations.

Should that part of the twelfth article, which has not been
ratified, in its modification retain the stipulation relative to the
importation of coffee, sugar, and the other productions of the West
Indies, it would constitute an exception to this proposition. But
as the West India productions are dissimilar to those of our own
country, they would not fall within the reason of these prohibi-
tions, and, therefore, the exception would be of no consequence.

2. As, for the like reasons, some of our productions are
subject, in common with the like productions of other nations, to
high, or prohibitory duties in the British ports in Europe, we are
free, likewise, to impose similar duties on any of the productions
or manufactures of the British dominions, extending such duties,
as they do, to the like productions and manufactures of other
foreign nations.

3. As the navigation act of Great Britain, in order to extend
their own shipping, has heretofore confined the importation of
foreign productions into the British ports, to British ships, and to
the ships of the country producing the same; the 15th article
[appears] to contain an important innovation on this celebrated
act; inasmuch as [by the most obvious construction of the
terms] it gives us a right to import from our own territories into
the British ports in Europe every article and description of goods
and merchandises, which any nation in their own ships is allowed
to import. In consequence whereof, while all other foreign na-
tions are prohibited and restrained from importing in their own
vessels into Great Britain any goods or merchandises, except
those of their own particular growth, produce, or manufacture,
we, by the treaty, have a right to carry from our ports to the
British ports in Europe, not only goods and merchandises of our

426 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEr. 38.

own growth, produce, or manufacture, but also of such goods
and merchandises, the growth, produce, or manufacture of any
foreign nation, as a nation producing or manufacturing the same,
would import in their vessels into Great Britain.

4. Should it ever be politic to exclude all foreign vessels
from importing, or exporting, any species of goods, wares, or
merchandises, by confining their importation or exportation to
our own vessels ; we are perfectly free to do so ; with the excep-
tion, relative to the West India productions, referred to under
the first proposition ; thus, for example, we may prohibit the im-
portation of all Asiatic goods, except in American bottoms.

That these articles of the treaty leave our navigation and
commerce as free, and secure to us as extensive advantages as
have before been procured by our commercial treaties with
foreign nations, will be seen by the following comparison :

1. By the articles before us, the parties restrain themselves
from imposing any other or higher duties on the vessels and
cargoes of each other, than they impose on the vessels and car-
goes of all other nations ; and also from imposing a prohibition
of the importation or exportation of any article to or from the
territories of each other, which shall not extend to all other na-
tions. By the 3d and 4th articles of our treaty with France,
and by the 2d and 3d articles of our treaty with Prussia, it is
stipulated, that the subjects and citizens of the respective parties,
shall pay, in the ports, havens, and places of each other, no
other or greater duties or imposts, of whatsoever nature they
may be, than those which the nations most favored shall be
obliged to pay: and moreover, that they shall enjoy all the
rights, liberties, privileges, and exemptions in trade, navigation,
and commerce, which the said nations do, or shall enjoy : and by
the 2d article of the former, and the 26th article of the latter
treaty, the parties agree mutually, not to grant any particular
favor, in respect to navigation or commerce, which shall not im-
mediately become common to the other party, who shall enjoy
the same favor, if freely granted, or on allowing the same com-
pensation, if the concession was conditional.

The stipulations in the three treaties are, on these points,
equivalent.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 427

The 2d and 3d articles of our treaty with Holland, and the
3d and 4th of our treaty with Sweden, likewise contain mutual
stipulations, that the subjects and citizens of the several parties
shall pay in the ports, havens, and places of their respective
countries, no other or higher duties or imposts than those which
the nations most favored shall pay ; and that they shall enjoy all
the rights, liberties, privileges, and exemptions in trade and
navigation, which the said nations shall enjoy.

2. The articles before us, after stipulating that there shall be
between our territories and the British dominions in Europe, a
reciprocal and perfect liberty of commerce, declare, that the same
shall be subject always to the laws of the respective countries.
The introductory articles of our treaties with France, Holland,
and Sweden, after asserting the intentions of the parties to take
equality and reciprocity as their basis, likewise leave each party
at liberty to form such regulations respecting commerce and navi-
gation as it shall find convenient to itself — and the 2d and 3d
articles of our treaty with Prussia, after stipulating the rights of
the parties, respecting the duties and imposts, and the freedom of
their navigation and trade, likewise require their submission to
the laws and usages established in the two countries.

3. The articles before us, in their provisions relative to navi-
gation, stipulate, as has been already observed, in common with
our other treaties, that the ships of the parties shall not be subject
to higher or other duties, than those paid by all other nations.
They go farther, and agreee to vary this rule, so far as shall be
necessary to equalize the tonnage duty imposed by the parties on
the ships of each other. Our treaty with France is the only one
in which we discover a similar stipulation. — France had a high
alien tonnage duty on all foreign vessels transporting the mer-
chandise of France from one port to another port in her domin-
ions. We had a less alien tonnage duty on foreign ships employed
in a similar trade : though not equally extensive, the case is
parallel to that which exists between us and Great Britain. We
have a high alien tonnage duty on all foreign vessels entering
our ports ; Great Britain has a less alien tonnage duty on foreign
vessels entering her ports. In our treaty with France we reserve

428 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

a right to countervail the alien tonnage duty imposed by France ;
and in like manner, in our treaty with Great Britain, she reserves
a right to countervail the alien tonnage duty imposed by us.
The object, in both instances, has been to place the navigation of
the parties on the footing of exact equality.

The preceding exposition of these articles, illustrated by the
comparison of their provisions, with the analogous articles of our
other treaties, would be sufficient to vindicate them against the
objections to which they have been exposed. — It is, however,
thought advisable to take notice of such of these objections as
are likely to have any influence on the public opinion. — [This will
be done in a subsequent number.]

Camillus.

no. XXVIII.

1795.

An extraordinary construction of the last clause of the four-
teenth article has been assumed by the writer of Cato ; his mistake
in this instance has been the foundation of many of the errors
with which that performance abounds. The article stipulates
that there shall be a perfect and reciprocal liberty of navigation
and commerce between our territories and those of Great Britain
in Europe, subject always to the laws and statutes of the two
countries, respectively. This navigation and commerce, says
Cato, must be subject to, and defined and regulated by the laws
and statutes of the two countries, which existed at the time of
making the treaty, all future laws, that either party might be
disposed to make, relative to the same, being excluded.

The reason assigned, in support of this interpretation, is, that
the article would be nugatory, did not the laws and statutes
alluded to, mean only those in existence at the making of the
treaty ; since future laws might impair or destroy what the article
confers.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 42'J

Nothing in the expressions themselves requires this interpre-
tation.

The customary and established meaning of them in other trea-
ties would lead to a rejection of it. — The object of the clause is
not the limitation of the legislative power of the parties, but the
subjection of their mutual navigation and commerce to their
respective laws. — This end is most fully attained by understanding
the parties to mean their future as well as their existing laws.
Besides, the interpretation must be such as will not destroy the
use and meaning of other parts of the treaty. If this construction
is just, some of the most important stipulations of the fifteenth
article would really become useless. For instance, if the laws,
existing at the time of making the treaty, are alone to prevail, the
articles of commerce, admitted or excluded by those laws, must
remain entitled to admission or liable to exclusion. Why then
say in the fifteenth article " that no prohibition shall be imposed
on the exportation or importation of any articles to or from the
territories of the parties respectively, which shall not extend to
all other nations ?" If a prohibition, applying to all foreign
nations, may be imposed (as the clause allows), this would be a
new or subsequent law, varying the law existing at the time of
making the treaty, and consequently defeating the construction in
question.

The reason adduced by Cato to support his construction is
equally defective with his interpretation itself. The fourteenth
article is in general terms, and similar, as has been shown, to the
introductory articles of other treaties ; so far from the last clause
thereof being capable of destroying the preceding stipulations, it
is the peculiar province of the next article to ascertain the points
which the parties mutually agree to except from their legislative
power. In all cases not thus excepted, the navigation and com-
merce of the parties is subject to their existing or future laws.

It is not necessary to remark on the several objections which
have proceeded from the opinion that the treaty restrains us from
imposing prohibitory duties and exclusions : they are but sub-
divisions of the error that has been just combated.

Another objection which has been stated by several writers,

430 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

and much labored by Cato, is, that under the right reserved to
the British government to countervail an alien tonnage duty, by
the imposition of an equivalent one on our vessels entering their
ports, they would gain and we should lose.

Several methods are adopted to prove this opinion. The ob-
servation that we have a tonnage duty on our own vessels, and
that Great Britain has none, is repeated by way of objection
against this as well as against the proposed adjustment contained
in the 12th article. The same reply already given might be
sufficient in this place.

But [is it true] that British ships entering their own ports in
Europe are wholly free from a tonnage duty ? the contrary is
the fact ; since it is understood, that they pay a tonnage duty for
the support of light-houses, and some other institutions, connected
with their navigation, which [in all their ports*] exceeds the
tonnage duty of six cents per ton, that we levy on the entry of
our own vessels employed in foreign trade. But Great Britain
(it is alleged) will not only impose in virtue of this reserved
right, fifty cents per ton on our vessels entering her ports, but in
every port except that of London, she will furthermore exact
one shilling and ninepence sterling, or thirty-nine cents per ton,
for light-money and Trinity- dues more than is paid by her own
vessels ; this, added to the difference before stated, would have,
it is said, a very discouraging effect upon our navigation. Our
tonnage duty is a tax not divided and appropriated, like the
light-money, or Trinity-dues, in Great Britain, to specific, and
particular objects — but when levied, goes into the treasury with
the duty of impost, and stands appropriated to the various objects
to which that duty is appropriated — among those objects is the
support of light-houses — it is not the object to which the tax is
applied that gives a denomination ; whether it goes to support
the civil list, or to pay annuities, or to maintain light-houses, or
to support hospitals, it is equally a tonnage duty. A tonnage
duty then of a certain amount, is now paid by American vessels
entering the ports of Great Britain. This duty is not uniform,
being less in London than in the other ports, and, in some in-

* Unless London be an exception.

At. 38.] CAMILLUS. 431

stances, less than the tonnage duty paid by British ships entering
our ports. The object of this clause (8th of the 15th article) is to
equalize the alien tonnage duties of the parties. Hence the
reservation of a right to the British government, to impose on
our vessels entering their ports in Europe, a tonnage duty equal
to that which shall be payable by British vessels in our ports.
It would be against the manifest views of the parties as well as
against the explicit terms of the article, to impose a tonnage duty
(whether for light-money, Trinity-dues, or any other purpose)
which should exceed that which shall be payable by British
vessels in our ports.

The right reserved is expressly to impose on our vessels an
equal, not a greater tonnage duty than we shall impose on their
vessels. This objection, therefore, must be abandoned.

But again, it is urged, that our navigation, should it weather
Scylla, must perish on Charybdis : for we are gravely told by
Cato, that under the right reserved to the British government to
impose such duty as may be sufficient to countervail, or, which
is equivalent, to balance the difference of duty payable on the
importation into our ports of Asiatic or European goods by Ame-
rican or by British vessels, our ships will be thrown out of the
trade with the British European dominions ; because under this
right, the British government will impose a duty on our pro-
ductions carried to their ports in our own ships, equal to the
whole duty payable on the goods and merchandises imported
into our ports by British ships ; and as the goods and merchan-
dises which we receive from them exceed in value those that
they receive from us by one-third, and as the duty to be counter-
vailed is at least ten per cent, ad valorem on the goods received
from them, the consequence will be, that the countervailing duty
must amount to fifteen per cent, on the value of all our produc-
tions carried in our own ships to the British ports in Europe,
while the same will be free in British ships. A more extra-
vagant construction,* or an argument more inaccurately formed,
can scarcely be imagined.

[* If I mistake not, the assertion of Cato, as to the whole duty, has been retracted ;
but the residue of his error on this point remains unrecalled.]

432 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 38.

The countervailing right is not applicable to the whole duty-
payable on goods and merchandises imported into our ports in
British ships, but expressly confined to the difference of duty
now payable on the same when imported by American or by
British vessels. This difference is one-tenth part of the duty upon
all European goods, that is to say, these goods pay one-tenth
part more duty when imported in British vessels than is paid on
the same when imported in an American vessel ; in all cases,
therefore, where our impost is ten per cent, ad valorem, the dif-
ference of duty to be countervailed amounts to only one per cent,
on the value of the goods, instead of ten per cent, as is alleged by
Cato ; in the instance of teas imported from Europe the difference
is greater : again it is not an aggregate sum, that is to be appor-
tioned under this countervailing right, for this sum would be
liable to constant variation, according to the quantity and species
of goods imported into our ports from time to time by British
vessels ; and besides, the British government possess no means
whereby, the amount thereof could be ascertained.

Cato feels and admits the force of these remarks as decisive
against an average duty, without perceiving that they possess
equal strength against his project of countervailing the whole duty
paid on the importation of goods and merchandises into our
ports by British vessels ; for the same variation in the amount,
and the same want of the means to ascertain it, will operate in
both cases. The reasons which he himself employs to prove
that an average duty cannot be ascertained, equally show the
impracticability of the method which he considers as the one
that will be employed in the execution of the countervailing
right reserved to the British government. It has before been
stated, that the natural as well as the equitable mode of executing
this power will be, to impose a duty on the goods imported by us
from their European ports exactly the same as makes the dif-
ference of duty on the importation thereof into our ports by
American or by British vessels.

Admitting that the execution of the countervailing right
reserved to Great Britain will do no more than place the naviga-
tion of the parties on an equal footing in their mutual intercourse,

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 433

still we are told that for this, likewise, the treaty is blamable,
because even equality will be such an advantage to our rival,
that we shall be unable to maintain the competition.

This objection brings with it a quality rarely to be discovered
in the opinions of the cavillers against the treaty. Their usual
error is a false and magnified estimate of the comparative re-
sources, strength and importance of our country ; in this instance,
shifting their ground, they fall into the opposite extreme, and
contend for our inferiority in a branch of business in the pro-
secution of which, we are unquestionably able to meet a fair
competition with any nation.

With what propriety could we have proposed or expected an
adjustment of our intercourse by which our vessels should have
been placed on a better footing than those of the other party ?
As the trade was mutually beneficial, why could we, more than
Great Britain, ask for an arrangement that should subject our
rival to comparatively heavier burdens ? Does any considerate
man believe, that it would have been proper for us to ask, or
that there is the least probability that Great Britain would have
acceded to, an arrangement on the subject of our mutual navi-
gation, that should have secured to us advantages denied to
them ? To place the navigation of the parties on an equal foot-
ing, was all that could be rationally expected by either — and so
far from such a settlement being injurious to us, the contrary
has long been the opinion both here and in Great Britain. If
it is true, that we are unable to maintain a competition with the
British navigation, how are we to account for the jealousy [that
is understood] to have shown itself on their part on this subject.

But the fact is otherwise — British ships cannot be built and
equipped as cheap as American ships, nor are they victualled and
manned* on as good terms. Our country abounds with excellent
materials for ship-building. Great Britain is in a great measure
dependent upon other countries for a supply of them. The ma-
terials for the construction of ships are much cheaper in America

* [In the comparison in this particular, we must combine the number of hands
with the terms of compensation according to which the vessels of the two countries
are navigated.]

G 28

434 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

than in Great Britain ; and intelligent characters in Great Britain
as well as in America have affirmed, that an American merchant
ship of any given burden, can be built and equipped for sea one-
third cheaper than a British, Dutch, or French ship of equal
goodness. Mr. Coxe informs us, that the cost of an American
ship, built of our live oak and cedar, is from 36 to 38 dollars per
ton, completely finished ; while an oak ship in the cheapest part
of England, France, or Holland, fitted in the same manner, will
cost from 55 to 60 dollars per ton. The capital employed on the
American merchantmen is therefore one-third less on any given
amount of tonnage than that employed in the same amount of
British tonnage ; or the money requisite to build and equip for
sea two British merchant ships, will be sufficient to build and
equip for sea three American merchant ships of the same burden
and of equal goodness. It is not only the difference in the first
cost, but to this should be added the difference of interest and
insurance, the annual amount whereof is ascertained by the value
of the ships.

If we add to this, the comparative advantages that we pos-
sess in victualling and manning our vessels, independent of the
acknowledged and distinguished skill and enterprise of our sea-
men, it may be safely affirmed, that no American who knows
the character of his countrymen, and who is not ignorant
of our peculiar resources for ship-building, will doubt our
superiority in an equal and fair competion with any other
nation.

It is further alleged, that the treaty wants reciprocity, inas-
much as the whole territory of the United States is laid open
to the British • navigation and commerce, while in return, the
British territories, in Europe only, are open to us. The short
answer to this allegation is, that it is not true. All the British
territories in Europe are laid open to us ; all their territories in
Asia are also opened to us ; the treaty likewise opened all their
territories in the "West Indies. The article relative to this branch
of trade, as has already been observed, is excepted from the
ratification of the treaty, and made the subject of future negotia-
tion. The British territories on our continent, that of the Hud-

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 435

son's Bay company excepted, are also opened to us in like man-
ner as ours are opened to them. The intercourse is confined on
both sides to the interior communications, the inhabitants of
those colonies being equally destitute of a right to resort, by
sea, with their ships to our ports and harbors, as we are of
the right to resort, by sea, with our ships to their ports and har-
bors.

The territory of the Hudson's Bay company, the island of
Newfoundland and the establishments on the coast of Africa,
are the only British dominions to which the treaty, in its origi-
nal form does not give a right of intercourse and trade.

The settlement in the Bay of Honduras is on Spanish lands,
and the right of precedence is conceded for specified objects,
beyond which, the Spanish government are vigilant to restrain
the settlers.

Spain may possibly be induced to allow us a right in common
with Great Britain to cut mahogany and dye-woods in this region ;
but Great Britain cannot, consistently with her convention with
Spain, share with us the privilege that she enjoys.

Newfoundland is a mere establishment for the British fisheries.
The African trade has been, and might hereafter be pursued,
if our humanity and the force of public opinion did not impede
it, without procuring a right to resort to the British ports in that
quarter : and in respect to the unsettled territory of the Hudson's
Bay company, about which so much has been noticed and writ-
ten, it is of no sort of importance, except in a small Indian trade
that employs two or three annual ships which arrive there in
August, and escape in September ; besides, that this trade be-
longs to a company who possess a right to the exclusive enjoy-
ment of it even against their fellow-citizens. It is finally alleged
that the treaty will bind up and restrain our government from
making more specific and beneficial treaties of commerce with
other nations.

Those who urge this objection, have generally placed great
reliance on another objection, which asserts that the treaty with
Great Britain violates the Constitution, because it amounts to a
regulation of commerce, the power to regulate which is vested

436 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

in Congress and not in the executive. Yet these very charac-
ters, in the next breath, maintain that the treaty is bad, be-
cause it precludes our executive government (for no other
power can make treaties) from making more minute and benefi-
cial commercial treaties with other nations. If these observa-
tions can be reconciled, it must be thus : the Constitution does
not authorize the executive, with the aid of the senate, to
make a commercial treaty with Great Britain, having vested
in Congress the power to regulate the trade between us and that
nation ; but it allows the executive to make commercial treaties
with any other nation, which may establish the most material
and minute commercial and revenue laws, without affecting
the power vested in Congress to regulate trade. That Ave may
have characters among us sufficiently intemperate to wish that
such was the Constitution, I am not prepared to deny; — but
that such a construction can be made out, yet remains to be
proved.

The objection, as usual, is made in a loose and inaccurate
manner; literally interpreted, we should infer that the treaty
contained an article, whereby we had agreed with Great Bri-
tain, that we would not form any future treaties of commerce
with any nation ; but no such stipulation exists.

Is it meant by the objection to be alleged, that we can form
no commercial treaty, whereby, for an advantage yielded on
our part, we may acquire a privilege in return, unless we yield
the same advantage to Great Britain gratuitously and without
receiving from her the equivalent?

Admitting the truth of this objection, it might be replied :
So on the other hand, Great Britain can form no commercial
treaty, whereby, for an advantage yielded on her part, she may
acquire some privilege in return, unless she yields the same ad-
vantage to us gratuitously and without receiving from us the
equivalent ; and as Great Britain, whose commercial relations
are equally extensive with ours, and whose capital far exceeds
ours, is equally restrained on this point, our chance of gain would
be fully equal to our chance of loss.

But the allegation is not generally true, and the objection,

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 437

when examined, will be found to be of little weight, even with
those who may imagine that nations do sometimes make good
bargains by the purchase of privileges and exemptions in their
foreign trade. The case that has been chosen to enforce the ob-
jection, shall be employed to invalidate it.

Admit that the treaty with Great Britain is in operation —
that the oil and provision merchants of the United States, and
the wine and brandy merchants of France are desirous of a treaty
between the two countries, whereby those commodities shall be
received from each other on low duties or freely — admit further,
that the governments of the two nations are disposed to make
such a treaty (this is the case again put by the opposers of the
treaty as impracticable), what will restrain the conclusion of this
treaty ? The disadvantage that will arise from our treaty with
Great Britain? ISTo, for Britain produces neither wines, nor
brandy made from wines, with which she could supply us ; she
therefore could gain nothing, nor should we lose any thing by
the conclusion of such a treaty. All that will be requisite, there-
fore, in the formation of such treaties, will be to choose for the
purpose such articles of the growth, manufacture, or produce of
any country with whom we desire to treat, as are not common
to it and the British dominions, and any skilful merchant will
quickly make the selection. Hence it appears that the objection
is not well founded in point of fact.

But though it may be practicable, will it be politic in us to
conclude no commercial treaties of this character with any na-
tion ? If we resort to precedents as guides, we shall discover
few, the history of which would encourage us. Indeed they
are a description of conventions not often formed between na-
tions.

They are of difficult adjustment, and necessarily increase the
provisions of the commercial code, sufficiently intricate, when
only one rule prevails in respect to all nations. Besides, how-
ever perfect may be the right of nations in this respect, yet, when
the productions of one nation are received at lower duties than
the like productions of another, the discrimination will scarcely
fail to awaken desires and to produce dissatisfaction from their
disappointment.

438 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [J2r. 38.

Again, unless we are prepared, at the expense of the whole,
to procure advantages or privileges for a part of the community,
we shall doubt the policy of such stipulations. Between two
manufacturing nations, in each of which the manufactures have
attained to great perfection, a tariff of duties may be establish-
ed by treaties, in the payment of which the manufactures of the
two countries might be freely exchanged and mutually confirm-
ed ; such was the commercial treaty between France and Great
Britain in the year 1786. But the subject was so intricate and
involved such a variety of apparently independent circumstances,
such as the price of provisions, the amount and the manner of
levying of the taxes, and the price of the raw materials employ-
ed in their respective manufactures, that neither part felt entire
confidence in the equity and reciprocity of the treaty : and with
all the skill in negotiation, that France in a superior degree has
been supposed to have possessed, the opinion of that nation has
finally been, that the treaty was burdensome and disadvanta-
geous to them.

We have another specimen of this species of treaty in a short
convention between England and Portugal, concluded in 1703 —
the object was to procure a favorable market for dissimilar com-
modities, and such as were not the common production of the
two countries. But this treaty, which has been so much ap-
plauded, is essentially defective in point of reciprocity. England
agrees to admit the wine of Portugal on payment of two thirds of
the duty that shall be payable on French wines ; and in return,
Portugal agrees not to prohibit the English woollens. She does
not agree to receive them exclusively of the woollens of other
countries, nor to admit them on payment of lower duties. The
advantage, therefore, is manifestly on the side of Portugal. By
the treaty of commerce between France and Great Britain, con-
cluded in 1786, it was agreed, that the wines of France imported
into Great Britain should pay no higher duties than those which
the wines of Portugal then paid. The consequence must have
been a reduction, without compensation or equivalent from
Portugal, of the existing duties on the wines of that country
brought into Great Britain, equal to one third of the amount of

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 439

such duties. This is an instance of inconvenience and loss, re-
sulting from the species of treaties, which it is alleged as an ob-
jection to the treaty concluded between us and Great Britain,
that we are prevented by it from making with other nations.

A small compact nation, likewise, who excel in some one
species of manufacture, that is established throughout their ter-
ritory, and in the conducting and success whereof there is a
common interest, may find it useful to procure the exclusive
supply of some foreign market : provided, in this as in all other
bargains, the compensation shall not be too high. But in a na-
tion like ours, composed of different States, varying in climate,
productions, manufactures, and commercial pursuits, it will be
more difficult to enter into treaties of this kind. Should Great
Britain, for example, be inclined to admit our fish-oils freely, or
on payment of low duties, on condition that we would receive
their woollens or hardware freely, or on payment of low duties
— would the middle and southern States be satisfied with such a
treaty? — would they agree to a tax on their estates sufficient to
supply the deficiency in the revenue arising from the relinquish-
ment of the impost on British woollens or hardware ? Would
it not be said, that such a tax was a bounty out of the common
treasury, on a particular branch of business pursued alone by a
portion of the citizens of a single State in the Union ? Instances
might be multiplied in the illustration of this subject; but they
will readily occur to every man who will pursue a little detail
in his reflections. We have once made an experiment of this
kind — its fate should serve as a caution to us in future. By the
eleventh and twelfth articles of our treaty with France, it was
agreed, that France should never impose any duty on the mo-
lasses that we should import from the French West Indies ; and
in compensation of this exemption, that we should never im-
pose any duty on the exportation of any kind of merchandise by
Frenchmen, from our territories, for the use of the French West
Indies. These articles produced much dissatisfaction in Con-
gress : it was said to be a benefit that would enure to the use
and advantage of only a part, but which, must be compensated
by the whole. Those arguments which will show themselves in

440 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

future, should similar conventions be formed, were displayed on
this occasion. The treaty was ratified, Congress applied to the
king of France to consent to annul these articles — this request
was granted — and the articles were, by the several acts of the
parties, annulled.

Not only the few instances of the existence of these treaties
among the nations, added to the peculiar difficulties which we
must meet in their formation, should lead us to doubt their utili-
ty, but also the opinion of our own country, which, if explicit on
any point, has been repeatedly so in the condemnation of this
species of national compact.

The introductory article of our commercial treaty with
France, asserts, that the parties willing to fix in an equitable
and permanent manner, the rules which ought to be followed
relative to their correspondence and commerce, "have judged
that the said end could not be better obtained, than by taking
for the basis of their agreement the most perfect equality and
reciprocity, and by carefully avoiding all those burdensome
preferences which are usually sources of debate, embarrassment
and discontent."

The same language is employed in our subsequent treaties
with Holland and with Sweden ; the public voice is unequivocal
on this subject.

On the whole, the more closely this question is examined,
the more doubtful will the policy appear, of our entering into
treaties of this description. We shall have to encounter not only
the intrinsic difficulties that always attend a fair and precise ad-
justment of the equivalents, together with the national discon-
tents that proceed from errors on this point ; but moreover a
still greater embarrassment from the circumstances that our great
staple exports are not the common productions of the whole
Union, but different articles are peculiar to different parts there-
of. If, notwithstanding, our government shall discover an in-
stance in which, consistent with the common interest and sound
policy, such a treaty might be desirable, we have scope sufficient
to form it without incurring loss or disadvantage by the opera-
tion of our treaty with Great Britain.

Camillus.

vEt. 38.] CAM1LLUS. 441

NO. XXIX.

1795.

The sixteenth article is entirely conformable to the usage and
custom of nations. The exchange of consuls had already taken
place between us and Great Britain ; and their functions and
privileges being left to the definition of the law of nations, we
shall be exempt from those unpleasant controversies that too
often arise from special conventions, which enlarge the consular
privileges, power, and jurisdiction.

The agreement that either party may punish, dismiss, or send
back a consul for illegal or improper conduct, is calculated to
prevent national misunderstandings, and to secure a respectful
deportment in the consular corps. I have not observed that this
article has been disapproved of from any quarter.

The seventeenth article which respects the capture and deten-
tion of the vessels of the parties on just suspicion of having on
board enemy's property, or contraband of war, has been the ob-
ject of intemperate censure — with how much justice it shall be
the business of this paper to examine.

The principal complaint, is not, that the article exposed our
own property to loss by capture, for this is not the case, but that
it does not protect enemy's property on board our vessels. The
defence of the article will rest upon the proofs which shall be
exhibited, that it is in conformity with, and supported by, the
clear and acknowledged law of nations — that law which pro-
nounces that enemy's goods on the high seas are liable to capture,
and as a necessary mean to this end, that neutral ships are there
liable to examination or search.

The law of nature (as heretofore observed) applicable to indi-
viduals in their independent or unsocial state, is what, when ap-
plied to collections of individuals in society, constitutes the natural
or necessary law of nations. An individual in a state of uature,
for reparation of injuries, or in defence of his person and property,
has a right to seize the property of his enemy, and to destroy his
person.

442 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

Nations always succeed to the rights that the individuals who
composed them enjoyed in a state of nature : and hence it is that
by the law of nations, from the earliest annals of society, the goods
or property of one enemy has been considered as liable to be
seized and applied to the use of another. This right must be so
used as not to injure the rights of others : subject to this limita-
tion, it is perfect, and an interruption of it by another is an injury.
As in a contest between two individuals in a state of nature, no
third has a right, without becoming a party in the controversy,
to protect the property, or defend the person of either of the par-
ties; so in a war between two nations no third nation can act out
of its own jurisdiction, consistent with the duties of neutrality ;
or, without becoming a party in the war, protect the property of,
or defend either of the parties. Though nations are, in respect
to each other, like individuals in a state of nature, the resemblance
is not in every particular perfect. Individuals in a state of nature
have not only the inferior dominion or private ownership of
property, but the entire and perfect dominion over it. In society
the latter right belongs exclusively to the nation, while the former
belongs to the several members that compose it. Immovable
things, such as lands, which are denominated the territory of a
nation, are the immediate and special objects of this perfect do-
minion or paramount property. Movable things are the proper
objects of inferior dominion or private ownership, and are no
otherwise the objects of the national or paramount propert}*- than
as they happen to be within its territorial limits. The perfect
dominion, or jurisdiction of a nation, in respect to property, ex-
tends over, and is bounded by, the lands thereof and the waters
appurtenant to the same.

As soon, therefore, as movable things pass out of these limits,
they cease to be under the dominion or jurisdiction of the nation,
the private property of whose members they may be.

This private property, in movable things, may be enjoyed
within the territory of a nation, by those who are not members
thereof. Hence in a war between two nations, a member of one
of which owns movables within the territory of a third or neutral
nation, such movables or property are not liable to seizure by

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 443

reason of the war ; because, being within and under the exclusive
jurisdiction of a third nation, it would be an injury to the right
of such nation to go there and seize the same. So long as such
movables remain within a foreign territory, they are objects of
its dominion and protection ; but as soon as they are carried out
of the same, they cease to be any longer under its jurisdiction or
protection.

In a war between two nations, all the members of each are
enemies to the other, and all the property of the several members,
as well as the strictly national property, is liable to seizure. In
general the character of the owner, whether enemy or friend,
decides whether property is liable to capture by reason of war ;
but the validity of the capture depends not only on the goods
being enemy's property, but likewise on the fact that the place of
capture is one in which the right maybe exercised without injury
to the rights of a neutral nation. Hence the property of an ene-
my is liable to capture only within the respective territories or
jurisdiction of the belligerent nations, or in a place not within the
territory or jurisdiction of any nation. In either of these places
the right may be exercised without injury to the rights of neutral
nations. The limitation of this right, so far as respects enemy's
property found within the territory of one of the parties on the
breaking out of war, has before been discussed and placed, I
flatter myself, on solid principles.

The main ocean not being within the territory, or subject to
the exclusive dominion of any nation, is a place, where enemy
goods may lawfully be captured. An impediment by any third
nation to the exercise of the right of capture on the ocean by
either of the belligerent parties, would be an injury.

As the goods of an enemy, within the territory of a neutral
State, are under the protection thereof, the law of nations, for
the reasons that have been stated, will not permit us to take
them : in like manner, we have no right to take them if they are
on board a ship, whilst the ship is in a neutral port, whether the
ship itself is a neutral one, or belongs to an enemy, because the
port is a part of the territory. When the goods of an enemy
are on board the ship of an enemy, and the ship is in the main

444 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

ocean, there is no doubt of our right to capture both the goods
and the ship, because they are then in a place which is not the
territory of any nation. But when the goods of an enemy are
on board a neutral ship, and the ship is in the main ocean,
though we have a right to take the goods, we have no right to
take the ship, or to detain her any longer than is necessary to
obtain possession of the goods — for the ocean itself is no terri-
tory— and neutral ships, as they are movable goods, can not be
parts of the neutral territory ; and consequently are no more un-
der the protection of the neutral state, than the same goods
would be, if they were passing through an unoccupied country
in neutral carriages, or on neutral horses.

A neutral ship (says Eutherford in his institutes, whose rea-
soning on this question I adopt) may indeed be called a neutral
place ; but when we call it so, the word place does not mean ter-
ritory, it only means the thing in which the goods are contained.
Though the goods of the enemy had been on board a ship be-
longing to the enemy, we might have said, in the same sense,
that they were in a neutral place, if they had been locked up
there in a neutral chest. But no one would imagine, that such a
neutral place, as a chest, can be considered as a part of the terri-
tory of the neutral state, or that it would protect the goods.
Notwithstanding, a neutral chest is as much a neutral place as
a neutral ship.

A ship, though a movable thing, is under the jurisdiction of
a nation whilst it continues in one of its ports — but as soon as it
is out at sea, only the private ownership, or inferior dominion, of
the ship remains, and it ceases to be under the dominion or
jurisdiction of the nation. The case will be the same, if, instead
of supposing the ship to be the property of a merchant, we sup-
pose it to be the property of the nation.

For though we cannot well call the property which the nation
has in such a ship by the name of private ownership ; yet, when
the ship comes into the main ocean, tne jurisdiction or paramount
property ceases, and the right that remains is an inferior kind of
property, which has the nature of private ownership. If the
jurisdiction, which a neutral state has over the ships of its mem-

^T. 38.] CAMJLLUS. 445

bers, or even over its own ships, ceases when the ships are out at
sea ; the goods of an enemy, that are on board such ships, can-
not be under the protection of the nation, in the same manner as
if the ships had been in one of its ports, or as if the goods had
been on its land.*

Notwithstanding a neutral nation, when its ship is in the
main ocean, has no jurisdiction over the ship itself, as if it was a
part of its territory, yet the nation, or some of its members,
which is the same thing, will continue to have the inferior sort
of property, or ownership in it. This species of property will
protect the ship from capture, though the enemy's goods on
board her may lawfully be taken.

But here a difficulty occurs. This inferior kind of property,
called private ownership, to distinguish it from the jurisdiction
over things, is an exclusive right ; those who have such owner-
ship in things, whether private or public persons, have a right to
exclude all others from making use of such things ; and by this
means, the rights of others are often hindered from taking
effect.

Wild beasts, birds, and fishes, are, till they are catched, in
common to all mankind ; and I, in common with others, have a
right to take them, and thereby to make them my own. But I
cannot hunt, or shoot, or fish, without perhaps sometimes using
the soil or water of another man ; and as I have no right to use
these without his consent, he may justly hinder me from doing
any of these acts, as far as his right of property extends. Thus
by private ownership I am prevented from taking such things, as
I should otherwise have a right to take, if they did not happen
to be in such places as he had an exclusive right to. In like
manner, though I have a right to take the goods of my enemy,
when they are out at sea, yet may not the effect of this right be
prevented by the inferior property or ownership, which a neutral
nation, or its members, have in the ship in which the goods are ?

* [The jurisdiction here spoken of is relative to property, and altogether dis-
tinct from what is termed personal jurisdiction, which respects the relations
between the society and its members. This latter species of jurisdiction is not
confined to the territorial limits of a nation.]

446 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

If the law of nations is nothing but the law of nature applied to
the collective persons of civil societies, instead of saying that the
law of nations has decided otherwise, we should disclose a natu-
ral reason why it should determine otherwise. When I have
merely a right to acquire property in a thing that is common to
all mankind, but cannot do it without the use of what is already
the property of some other man, this man neither does me an
injury, nor encourages or protects others who have injured me,
by excluding me from the use of what belongs to him. But
when we have a right in war, upon account of the damage which
the enemy has done us, to take goods of the enemy, and these
are in a neutral ship ; if the neutral state, though it has property
in the ship, should make use of its right of property to protect
the goods against us, this protection makes it an accessory to the
injury, which is the foundation of the claim upon the enemy to
obtain reparation of damages, and consequently is inconsistent
with the notion of neutrality.

But whilst this answer removes one difficulty, it bring ano-
ther. If a neutral nation makes itself accessory to the damages
done by the enemy, by protecting such enemy's goods as she has
a right to take for reparation of damages, when these goods are
out at sea in one of its ships ; why might not the same nation,
without becoming in like manner an accessory, protect the same
goods when the ship is in one of its ports, or when the goods are
on land within its territory ? A law of nations, which is natural
as to the matter of it, and positive only as to the objects of it,
will furnish an answer to this question.

Every state has, by universal acknowledgment and consent,
by the law of nations, an exclusive jurisdiction over its own ter-
ritory. As long, therefore, as a state keeps within its own terri-
tory, and exercises its jurisdiction there, the protection in question
is not a violation of our rights — but when its ships are in the
main ocean ; as they are then in a place out of its territory,
where, by the law of nations, it has no jurisdiction, this law will
allow us to take notice of the protection, which it gives to the
goods of an enemy, and to consider it as an accessory to the
damages done by the enemy, if it gives them protection.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 447

In respect to the right of examination or search, if the end
is lawful, and the examination or search a necessary mean to
attain this end, the inference is inevitable, that the examination
or search is likewise lawful.

If the question, whether enemy goods are seizable on board
a neutral ship, were really doubtful ; yet the right to search neu-
tral ships must be admitted for another reason. All agree that
arms, ammunition and other contraband articles, may not be car-
ried to an enemy by a neutral power — without searching vessels
at sea, such supply could not be prevented. The right to search,
therefore, results, likewise, from the right to seize contraband
goods. Again, the state of war authorizes the capture of enemy's
ships and goods ; but on the main ocean, which is the great
highway where the ships and goods of all nations pass, how are
the ships and goods*of an enemy to be distinguished from those
of a friend? No other way than by examination and search.
Hence then the right of search is deducible from the general
right to capture the ships and goods of an enemy.

It would undoubtedly disembarrass the commerce of neutral
nations were passports and ships' papers received, in all cases, as
conclusive evidence of the quality and property of the cargo.
And did treaties, in fact, effectually secure an exemption from
rude and detrimental inquisitions upon the ocean, they would
become objects of inestimable worth to the neutral powers.
But, notwithstanding the existence of stipulations in our other
treaties [which aim at giving some force to similar credentials],
can it be said, that our ships have been visited with less cere-
mony by one party than by the other? And may not the
experience of other nations, as well as that of our own, be ap-
pealed to, in proof of the opinion, that these stipulations, how-
ever exact and positive, are too little regarded by that class of
men, to restrain and govern whose conduct they are instituted ?

The right of search ought to be used with moderation, and
with as little inconvenience as possible to the rights of nations
not engaged in the war. And the law of nations, on the other
hand, requires the utmost good faith on the part of the neutral
powers. They are bound not to conceal the property of the

448 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

enemy, but on the contrary, to disclose it when examination
shall be made ; in confidence of this impartiality, the law of na-
tions obliges the powers at war to give credit to the certificates,
bills of lading and other instruments of ownership, produced by
the masters of neutral ships, unless any fraud appear in them, or
there be good reason for suspecting their validity. The right of
search is [always] at the peril of those who exercise it ; the
right, notwithstanding, [must be acknowledged] to be indubita-
ble.

The reasoning employed to prove that all neutral ships, on
the main ocean, are liable to search, and enemy goods on board
them to capture, is supported by the ablest writers on public
law, and their decision is believed to be unanimously in its favor.

The Italian states were the first among modern nations, who
cultivated the interests of commerce, and Ifefore the passage of
the Cape of Good Hope, Venice and Genoa distributed the
manufactures of Asia throughout Europe. They, therefore, first
defined the rights of navigation. Their maritime regulations are
collected in a work called "Consolato del Mare;" I do not pos-
sess the collection, but find the following quotation from it in
Grotius.*

" If both the ship and freight belong to the enemy, then, with-
out dispute, they become lawful prize to the captor ; but if the
ship belong to those that be at peace with us, and the cargo be
the enemy's, they may be forced by the powers at war, to put into
any of their ports, and unlade ; but yet the master must be satis-
fied for the freight of them."

Grotius, that learned and persecuted friend of liberty, whose
life and great talents were dedicated to the service of mankind,
and who displayed so much ability and learning in defending the
freedom of the seas and of commerce, is clearly of opinion, that
enemy goods are not protected by neutral bottoms : he even
goes farther, and allows that such property occasions great pre-
sumption that the vessel is, likewise, enemy property, f Bynker-

* Grotius Book 3, chap. 1, sect 5, Note.

t Grotius. Book 3, chap. 1, sect, 8— Book 8, chap. 6, sect. 6.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 449

shoek is of the same opinion.* Puffendorff and Heinecius:}; agree
in this law ; and Vattel, who is the latest writer, is explicit in his
opinion ; " withont searching neutral ships at sea," says he, "the
commerce of contraband goods cannot be prevented — there is
then a right of searching. Some powerful nations have, at dif-
ferent times, refused to submit to this. At present a neutral ship
refusing to be searched, would, from that proceeding alone, be
condemned as lawful prize." " Effects belonging to an enemy,
found on board a neutral ship, are seizable by the rights of war ;
but by the law of nature, the master is to be paid his freight, and
not to suffer by the seizure. The effects of ; neutrals, found on
board an enemy ship, are to be restored to the owners, against
whom there is no right of confiscation."

Other authors of respectability might be quoted ; but those
already named will be acknowledged as the ablest, and their
authority the most decisive of any that can be cited — so strong,
clear and uninterrupted, are the authorities of the writers on
public law in relation to these points, that the advocates of an
opposite rule, may be challenged to produce a single authority of
approved respectability in support of their opinion.§

Camillus,

NO. XXX.

1795.
Admitting that it was the law of nations that enemy's goods
might be seized in neutral ships, it is alleged by Cato and other
writers, who have appeared on the same side, that the treaties
which have been formed between nations have annulled this laWj
and established another in its stead, equally extensive and binding
on the whole civilized world.

* Bynkershoek, Quest. Jur. Pub. lib. i, cap. 13 and 14.
t Puffendorf.

X Heinecius, de Navibus cap. 2, sect. 114, 115, 116.

§ Tbis subject will be resumed and pursued under different aspects in another
number.

g 29

450 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

In discussing this allegation, we should remember, that all
nations are in a state of equality, and independent of each other.
No law, other than the necessary or natural law of nations, is
binding on any nation without its consent, expressly or tacitly
given. A law among nations cannot, like a civil or municipal
law, be annulled, or enacted by a majority, or any portion short
of the whole. By agreement between two or more nations, the
operation of a law already in existence, may be suspended so far
as respects themselves ; but such agreement works no change of
such law, in relation to the rights or duties of other nations. The
same is true of any rule of action, established by convention be-
tween two nations ; such rule is obligatory on the parties that
form the contract, but is wholly without effect and nugatory in
respect to all other nations. Unless then all nations have con-
curred in the design to annul this law, it must still exist ; and
treaties containing opposite stipulations, can be considered in no
other light, than as exceptions to the same, in which certain na-
tions have seen it their interest to agree.

Though one nation may have agreed with another to suspend
the operation of this law, and to substitute the rule that free ships
make free goods, and enemy ships enemy goods, there may have
been some peculiar reason that induced the parties to form this
convention with each other, that would not apply in respect to
any other nation.

A nation may advance its interest perhaps by forming such a
treaty, with one nation, and injure it by forming it with another —
because a nation has, in some instances, or for a limited time,
formed stipulations of this sort, it cannot from thence be inferred,
that it has thereby, in any sense, expressed its consent to a total
repeal of a law, the operation of which it has agreed to suspend
only for a limited time, and in respect to a particular nation.
Commercial treaties, in which we discover these stipulations,
though not always, are commonly limited in their duration. This
limitation is a strong argument against the doctrine which these
treaties are cited to establish. For so many years, say the parties,
we will suspend the operation of the law. When the treaty
expires by its proper limitation, or is dissolved by war, the rule

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 451

of the treaty ceases, and the law is again in force between the par-
ties, and prescribes to them, in common with other nations, their
rights and duties in this respect.

The law of nations, that authorizes the capture of enemy
goods in neutral ships, requires the restoration of neutral goods
captured in enemy ships : the treaties, which stipulate that free
ships make free goods, stipulate also that enemy ships make
enemy goods. I have discovered no instance of the former sti-
pulation, that has not been accompanied by the latter : though I
have found instances of the latter stipulation unaccompanied by
the former. This is the case in the treaty of peace, commerce
and alliance between Spain and England, concluded at Madrid,
in 1667. Those, therefore, who contend that the law of nations
has been repealed in one instance, must also insist that it has
been repealed in the other. If the number of stipulations is to
be received as evidence, the proof is stronger of a repeal in the
latter than in the former case. But will any one seriously main-
tain, that a nation would have a right to confiscate the goods of
a neutral power found on board an enemy ship, without an ex-
press stipulation on the part of such neutral state consenting to
the same? Would England or Spain, for example, have a
right to confiscate American property captured in a French ship ?
Would America, if at war, have a right to confiscate the neutral
property of Spain, Portugal, Denmark, or Russia, found on board
an enemy ship ? Has any nation ever confiscated property
under this circumstance ? If not, the inference is clear, that
these stipulations are exclusively relative to the parties who form
them, and that the rights of other states remain under the pro-
tection of the law of nations.

But according to Cato, this reasoning may be just, yet in-
applicable ; for he maintains that all nations have consented to
the establishment of this conventional law. " As far back as 150
years, " says this writer, " and ever since, I find that the com-
mercial nations have stipulated in their treaties, that free ships
shall make free goods, that full credit shall be given to ships'
papers, and that armed vessels shall not come within cannon
shot of a neutral ship, but send their boats on board with only

452 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

two or three men at most, to examine papers, but not to search,,
and that the treaties (by which is understood all the treaties) for
150 years back, relative to this object, are drawn in the words of
the treaty between the United States and France."

Struck with the fulness of this assertion, I have carefully
examined such collection of treaties, as I have been able to pro-
cure, and going back to the year 1645, I have given a patient
search to all the public conventions between Great Britain and
the several powers of Europe since that period. I find, that
since that epoch, Great Britain has concluded commercial treaties
with Spain, Portugal, France, Holland, Dantzic, Denmark, Swe-
den, and Russia.

In the treaties with Holland and with France, she has agreed
to the stipulation, that free ships shall make free goods, and
enemy ships, enemy goods. In Chalmers's collection of treaties,
a similar stipulation is contained in the 28d article of the treaty
of alliance, concluded in 1564, between Oliver Cromwell and
the king of Portugal ; but in other collections, in which that
treaty is found, it does not contain a stipulation that free ships
shall make free goods ; and it has been denied, from a reputable
quarter on the part of Great Britain, that she has ever acceded
to this principle, except in the instances of her treaties with
Holland and France ; neither of which exist any longer, the
former having expired long since, and the latter being dissolved
by the present war. Her treaties with Spain, Dantzic, Denmark,
Sweden, and Russia, do neither of them contain this stipulation.
On the contrary, the 12th article of the treaty with Sweden, and
the 20th of the treaty with Denmark, each of which is now in
force, and has been so for more than a century, as likewise the
14th article of the treaty with Dantzic, declares, that "lest the
enemy's goods and merchandise should be concealed under the
disguise of the goods of friends, it is stipulated, that all ships
shall be furnished with passports and certificates, by which it
shall be manifest to whom the articles, composing the cargoes,
belong :" and the two first of these treaties, moreover, declare it
" to be injurious to protect the property of enemies," and esta-
blish special guards to prevent the same.

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 453

In relation to the fall credit to be given to ships' papers, and
the manner of boarding neutral vessels, — in the treaties with
Spain, France, and Holland, it is stipulated, that full faith shall
be given to the passports, and that the boarding shall be by two
or three men only. But the treaties with Portugal and Russia
are destitute of any stipulation on this subject, except that in the
latter it is agreed,* that "the searching of merchant ships shall
be as favorable as the reason of the war can possibly admit,
toward the most favored neutral nation, observing, as near as
may be, the principles of the law of nations that are generally
acknowledged."f In the treaties with Dantzic, Denmark, and
Sweden, passports are required for the purpose of distinguishing,
according to the solemnities of those treaties, the enemy property
on board the ships of the parties ; and it is stipulated, that credit
shall be given to such passports, except in cases of just and
urgent cause of suspicion, when, say these treaties, the ship ought
to be searched ; an exception, that fully recognizes the right to
search, essentially does away the security intended by the pass-
ports. But neither of these treaties contain any regulation rela-
tive to the manner of boarding neutral vessels.

This research, though made with care, may have been imper-
fect ; the result thereof is, that there are only two, possibly three,
of these eight nations, with whom Great Britain has ever agreed
to the stipulation, that free ships shall make free goods ; only
three of them with whom she has stipulated, that full credit shall
be given to passports or ships' papers, or with whom the manner
of boarding is settled. Instead, therefore, of that uniformity and
universality in the stipulations in the commercial treaties, con-
cluded within the last 150 years, so confidently asserted by Cato,
we see that in five instances out of eight, of treaties concluded
between Great Britain and the principal powers of Europe,
within that term, they have on each of these points, given their
sanction to a law directly in opposition to the assertion of this
adventurous writer.

Yet, says Cato, " the principles of the armed neutrality, by

* Treaty of 1776, article 10. f Treaty with Dantzic of 170G, article 20.

454 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

the general consent of the great community of the civilized
world, changed the law of nations." It is a singular logic that
proves the agreement of nations by their disagreement, and their
consent to a principle, by their drawing forth their fleet to dis-
pute it. The armed neutrality, with those who understand its
history, will not be relied on by way of proving a change in the
law of nations, brought about by universal consent.

It will not be denied that this league, which was aimed prin-
cipally against Great Britain, failed to accomplish its purpose,
and that it expired with the American war. Nothing has been
heard of it during the present war ; and it is notorious, that
Russia, and Holland before its conquest, were under agreements
incompatible with the views of that association. The northern
powers of Europe under the countenance of France, united to
support the principles of the armed neutrality ; but the league
did not include all the neutral powers ; and of the powers en-
gaged in the war, at that period, Spain consented to observe the
principles contended for by the confederacy, on condition that
Great Britain would agree to them, who, so far from agreeing,
openly resisted them.

On the same principle, by which it is contended that this
association introduced a new law of nations, might the armed
leagues between certain nations to prohibit all commerce what-
ever with an enemy, be appealed to in proof of an alteration of
the law of nations in this respect. England and Holland entered
into such a league against France, in the year 1689 ; and other
instances are mentioned by Grotius ; yet no one has ever ima-
gined that thereby any change was wrought in the law of
nations.

The objection that has arisen from the dissimilarity between
this article and those relative to the same subject in our other
treaties, is equally defective with those already considered. The
objection proceeds from an opinion that the law of nations has
been changed, and that the stipulations in our other treaties are
evidence thereof. The observations that have been offered on
this subject, are equally applicable to this objection, and it is
therefore unnecessary to repeat them.

jEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 455

Not only reason, and the authority of jurists, but likewise
the practice of nations, where they have been unrestrained by
particular conventions, may be appealed to in support of this
doctrine.

The practice of France, of Holland, even subsequent to par-
ticular stipulations, regulating this subject between themselves,
has, in respect to other powers, been conformable to the law of
nations. The ordinances and maritime decisions of France may
be consulted to show what her practice has been, and that of
Holland is evident by the convention of 1689, between her and
England. The practice of Spain is understood to be the same ;
and in an instance that occurred during the American war, she
carried the law to its utmost rigor, in assigning as a cause of con-
demnation of a neutral Tuscan ship, her forcible resistance of the
right of search. Her capture of American ships, during the
present war, on suspicion of their cargoes being enemy property,
affords additional evidence of her practice and opinions on this
subject. In respect to Great Britain, from the general notoriety
of the fact, it seems, in some sort, unnecessary to add, that she
has immemorially adhered, in her general practice, to the law of
nations in its widest interpretation on this subject. In a few
instances, and perhaps for special reasons, as was the case in
respect to the treaty with Holland, concluded in 1667, she has
entered into opposite stipulations; but at this time, unless it
may be with Portugal, Great Britain has no such treaty with any
nation.

So undisputed was the law on this subject, and so uniform
the practice of nations in cases, not governed by a conventional
rule, that Congress, in the commencement, and through the
greater part of our revolution war, authorized our ships of
war and privateers, to capture enemy property on board neu-
tral ships, and our admiralty courts uniformly restored neutral
property found on board enemy ships. This practice continued
years after the conclusion of our treaty with France, which
contains a stipulation, that free ships shall make free. goods, and
enemy ships enemy goods ; no person, during that period, hav-
ing supposed that thereby the law was altered in respect to other
nations.

456 HAMILTON'S WORKS. LEt. 38.

Towards the close of the war, to favor the views of the
armed neutrality, in which league the United States were not
a party, but whose opposition to Great Britain they naturally
approved, Congress, in an ordinance on the subject of captures,
ordained that neutral bottoms should protect enemy goods —
but here they stopped. Thus far the authority was indubitable,
because it was exercised only in abridgment of their own rights.
Being engaged in war, they could not by their own act enlarge
their rights, or abridge those of neutral ships ; the extent of
both being defined and settled by the public law of nations.
They, therefore, never authorized the capture and condemna-
tion of neutral goods found in enemy ships, nor could they have
authorized the same, without a manifest violation of the rights
of the neutral powers.

It is finally alleged that the article, if sound in its principles,
is defective in those provisions which are requisite to protect and
secure the neutral rights of the parties ; inasmuch as it does not
contain an explicit stipulation for the payment of freight on
enemy goods, nor for the payment of damages for the detention
or loss of neutral ships taken without just cause. I do not re-
collect to have met with any precise stipulation on these points,
in the commercial treaties between other nations. — None such,
if my recollection be right, are found in any of our other trea-
ties ; and I think it would be somewhat difficult to form such
as would afford to the parties a more satisfactory security than
that which arises from the law of nations — a neutral ship is
entitled to freight for enemy goods captured on board her ; but
this right, if so admitted, may be forfeited by the irregular
conduct of the neutral, by the possession of false or double pa-
pers, by the destruction of papers, or by those fraudulent con-
cealments and evasions, which are inconsistent with fair and
impartial neutrality. A ship taken and detained without just
cause, is, together with her cargo, at the risk of the captors
from the moment of capture ; and in cases of partial or total
loss, or of damages by detention, the owner is entitled to full
and complete indemnification. But in case the neutral ship is
under such equivocal and doubtful circumstances, as afford

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 457

probable cause to believe that either the ship, or cargo, is ene-
my property, a situation not to be reconciled with an open and
fair neutrality, in such case, though on trial both ship and car-
go should turn out to have been bona fide neutral property,
yet the captors may avail themselves of her equivocal situation
and character, in mitigation, if not under very peculiar cir-
cumstances, in total discharge of damages. No stipulation, there-
fore, without these exceptions, would have afforded to the
parties adequate security against such irregularities; and with
them, its want of precision would have left the subject as it now
stands, to be regulated by the known and approved provisions
of the law of nations.

These provisions being well understood, the article concludes
with a stipulation against delays in the admiralty, and in the
payment and recovery of the damages it shall decree.

This examination, I flatter myself, has fulfilled its object,
whicli was to prove, that the article relinquishes no right that
we possessed as a nation, that it is agreeable to, and supported
by, the law of nations. A law in relation to this subject, coeval
with the origin of maritime commerce, and the principles where-
of have immemorially operated among nations.

It was desirable that a stipulation, similar to that contained
in our other treaties, should have been obtained. But the time
was unfavorable to the attainment of this object : and, as with
great propriety has been observed by Mr. Jefferson, in behalf
of our government — "since it depends on the will of other
nations as well as our own, we can only obtain it, when they
shall be ready to consent." By the 12th article, the parties
agree to renew the negotiation on this point, within the com-
pass of two years after the conclusion of the present war ; when
perhaps the restoration of peace, and other circumstances, may
prove more propitious to our views.

Camillus.

458 HAMILTON'S WORKS, [Mt. 38.

NO. XXXI.

1795.

I resume the subjects of the two last papers for the sake of a
few supplementary observations.

The objections to the treaty, for not containing the principle,
" that free ships make free goods," as being the relinquishment
of an advantage, which the modern law of nations gives to neu-
trals, have been fully examined, and, I flatter myself, completely
refuted.

I shall, however, add one or two reflections by way of further
illustration. A pre-established rule of the law of nations, can only
be changed by their common consent. This consent may either be
express, by treaties, declarations, &c. adopting and promising the
observance of a different rule, or it may be implied, by a course
of practice or usage. The consent, in either case, must embrace
the great community of civilized nations. If to be inferred from
treaties, it must be shown that they are uniform and universal.
It can, at least, never be inferred, while the treaties of different
nations follow different rules, or the treaties between the same
nation and others, vary from each other. So also as to usage. It
must be uniform and universal, and, let it be added, it must be
continued. A usage adopted by some nations, and resisted by
others, or adopted by all temporarily and then discontinued, is
insufficient to abolish an old, or substitute a new rule of the law
of nations. It has been demonstrated, that no consent of either
description has been given to the rule, which is contended fur in
opposition to the treaty.

The armed neutrality, so much quoted, is entirely deficient
in the requisite characters. Its name imports that it was an armed
combination of particular powers. It grew up in the midst of a
war, and is understood to have been particularly levelled against
one of the belligerent parties. It was resisted by that power.
There were other powers, which did not accede to it. It is a re-
cent transaction, and has never acquired the confirmation of
continued usage. What is more, it has been virtually abandoned

jEt. 38.]

CAMILLUS. 459

by some of the parties to it— and among these, by the principal
promoter of it, the politic and enterprising Catharine. It is, there-
fore, a perversion of all just ideas, to ascribe to such a combination
the effect of altering a rule of the law of nations.

In most important questions, it is remarkable that the opposers
of the truth are as much at variance with each other as they are
with the truth they oppose. This was strikingly exemplified
when the present Constitution of the United States was under
deliberation. The opposition to it was composed of the most
incongruous materials— the same thing is observable in relation
to the treaty. And one instance of the contrariety applies to the
rule cited above.

While some of the adversaries of the treaty complain of the
admission of a contrary principle by that instrument, as the
abandonment of a rule of the present law of nations; others, con-
ceding that there is no such rule yet established, censure that
admission as a check to its complete and formal establishment, and as
a retrograde step from this desirable point.

The objection in this form is more plausible than in the other,
but it is not less destitute of substance. If there has been any
retrograde step, it was taken by the government prior to the
treaty— authentic documents, which have been communicated by
the Executive to Congress, contain the evidence of this fact.

Early in the year 1793, some British cruisers having stopped
vessels of the United States, and taken out of them articles which
were the property of French citizens, Mr. Genet, the then minister
of France, in a letter of the 9th of July of that year, made a lively
representation upon the subject to our government, insisting, in
a subsequent letter of the 25th of that month, in which he recurs
to the same point, that the principles of neutrality established,
that friendly vessels make friendly goods ; and in effect, that the
violation of this rule by Great Britain was a violation of our neu-
tral rights, which we were bound to resent.

The reply of our government, is seen in a letter from our
Secretary of State to that minister, of the 24th of July. It is in
these terms— "I believe," says Mr. Jefferson, "it cannot be
doubted, but that by the general law of nations, the goods of a

460 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 38.

friend, found in the vessel of an enemy, are free, and the goods
of an enemy, found in the vessel of a friend, are lawful prize.
Upon this principle, I presume, the British armed vessels have
taken the property of French citizens found in our vessels in the
cases above mentioned ; and, I confess, I should be at a loss on
what principle to reclaim them. It is true that sundry nations,
desirous of avoiding the inconveniences of having their vessels
stopped at sea, ransacked, carried into port, and detained under
pretence of having enemy goods on board, have, in many instances,
introduced, by their special treaties, another principle between
them, that enemy bottoms shall make enemy goods, and friendly
bottoms friendly goods ; a principle much less embarrassing to
commerce, and equal to all parties in point of gain and loss ; but
this is altogether the effect of particular treaty, controlling, in
special cases, the general principles of the law of nations, and,
therefore, taking effect between such nations only as have so
agreed to control it."

Nothing can be a more explicit or unequivocal abandonment
of the rule, that free ships make free goods, and vice versa, than
is contained in this communication. But this is not all : In the
letter, from Mr. Jefferson to our minister in France, of the 26th
of August, 1793, instructing him to urge the recall of Mr. Genet,
the subject is resumed, the position asserted in answer to Mr.
Genet, insisted upon anew, and enforced by additional considera-
tions. Among other suggestions, we find these : " We suppose it
to have been long an established principle of the law of nations,
that the goods of a friend are free in an enemy's vessel, and an
enemy's goods lawful prize in the vessel of a friend. The incon-
venience of this principle has induced several nations latterly to
stipulate against it by treaty, and to substitute another in its stead,
that free bottoms shall make free goods, and enemy bottoms,
enemy goods. We have introduced it into our treaties with
France, Holland, and Eussia ; and French goods, found by the
two last nations in American bottoms, are not made prize of. It
is our wish to establish it with other nations : — But this requires
their consent also, is a work of time, and in the mean while they
have a right to act on the general principle, without giving to

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 461

us or to France, cause of complaint. Nor do I see, that France
can lose by it on the whole. For though she loses her goods
when found in our vessels, by the nations with whom we have
no treaties — yet she gains our goods when found in the vessels
of the same and all other nations ; and we believe the latter mass
to be greater than the former."

Thus, then, stood the business antecedent to the treaty.
Great Britain, adhering to the principle of the general and long
established law of nations, captures French property in our ves-
sels, and leaves free our property in French vessels. We acqui-
esce in this practice, without even a remonstrance or murmur.
The French minister complains of it, as contrary to the princi-
ples of neutrality. We reply, that, in our opinion, it is not con-
trary to those principles — that it is fully warranted by the gen-
eral law of nations — that treaties, which establish a different
rule, are merely exceptions to that law, binding only on the con-
tracting parties ; that having no treaty of the sort with Great
Britain, we should be at a loss on what ground to dispute the
legitimacy of her practice. We do not simply forbear to oppose
— we do not offer to France as an excuse for our forbearance,
that it is inconvenient to us, at the moment, to assert a question-
able right at the hazard of war — but we tell her peremptorily,
that, in our opinion, no such right exists, and that the conduct
of Great Britain, in the particular case, is justified by the law of
nations — neither do we wrap the motive of our forbearance in
silence, nor content ourselves with revealing it confidentially to
France alone ; but we publish it without reserve to the world,
and thus, in the presence of Great Britain, and every other na-
tion, make a formal renunciation of the pretension, that " free
ships shall make free goods, and enemy ships enemy goods;" no
counter declaration is heard from either house of Congn^s.

It was impossible to give a more full sanction to the opposite
principle than was given by this conduct, and these public and
positive declarations of our government. It was impossible more
completely to abandon the favorite ground. It is puerile to at-
tempt to discriminate between the force of this species of renun-
ciation and that of an admission of its propriety by treaty. The

462 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

conduct of a government avowed and explained, as to motives,
by authentic public declarations, may assert or renounce a pre-
tension as effectually as its compacts. Every nation, with whom
we had no contrary stipulation, could say to us as well before as
since the treaty with Great Britain, " your government has ex-
plicitly admitted that free ships do not make free goods, and you
have no right to complain of our not observing that rule towards
you." Candor, therefore, would oblige us to say that the treaty
has left this point where it found it — that it has only not ob-
tained from Great Britain a concession in favor of an innovation
upon the law of nations, which it is desirable to establish, but
which cannot be claimed as matter of right. Though, therefore,
it may not have the merit of strengthening, it has not the de-
merit of weakening the ground.

The difference in our position, in this respect, before and since
the treaty, amounts to this, that before the treaty the govern-
ment had abandoned the ground through one organ, Mr. Jeffer-
son ; by the treaty, it continued the abandonment through ano-
ther organ, Mr. Jay. If we consider the organ as the voluntary
cause in each case (the presumption of which is equally fair in
both cases), and if there be any blame, it falls more heavily on
Mr. Jefferson than on Mr. Jay ; for the former founded and made
the retreat, and the latter only did not advance from the disad-
vantageous post to which he had retreated. In other words,
Mr. Jay did only not recover the ground which Mr. Jefferson
had lost. And we know that, in general, it is a far more diffi-
cult task to regain than to keep an advantageous position.

But, in truth, no blame can justly be imputed in either case.
The law of nations was against the rule which it is desired to
introduce. The United States could not have insisted upon it as
matter of right ; and in point of policy it would have been mad-
ness in them to go to war, to support an innovation upon the
pre-established law. It was not honorable to claim a right, and
suffer it to be infracted without resistance. It is not for young
and weak nations to attempt to enforce novelties or pretensions
of equivocal validity. It is still less proper for them to contend,
at the hazard of their peace, against the clear right of others.

jEt. 38.] CAM ILL US. 463

The object was truly not of moment enough to risk much upon
it. To use the French proverb, " The play was not worth the
candle." In every view, therefore, it was wise to desert the pre-
tension.

So, also, in the midst of a war, like that in which Great Britain
was engaged, it were preposterous to have expected, that she
would have acceded to a new rule, which, under the circum-
stances of her great maritime superiority, would have oper-
ated so much more conveniently to her enemy than to herself.
And it would have been no less absurd to have made her acces-
sion to that rule the sine qua non of an arrangement, otherwise
expedient. Here again the play ivoidd not have been worth the
candle.

The importance of the rule has artfully been very much mag-
nified, to depreciate proportionably the treaty, for not establish-
ing it. It is to be remembered, that if something is gained by
it, something is also given up. It depends on incalculable cir-
cumstances, whether, in a particular war, most will be lost or
gained. Yet the rule is, upon the whole, a convenient one to
neutral powers. But it cannot be pretended that it is of so great
a value, as that the United States ought to adopt it as a maxim,
never to make a treaty of commerce, in which it was not recog-
nized. They might by this maxim forego the advantages of
regulating their commercial intercourse in time of peace with
several foreign powers, with whom they have extensive relations
of trade, by fixed and useful conventional rules, and still remain
subject in time of war to the inconveniences of not having estab-
lished, with those powers, the principle to which they make that
sacrifice.

Though, therefore, it be a merit to a certain extent in a treaty
to contain this principle, it is not a positive fault or blemish, that
it does not contain it. The want of it is not a good cause of ob-
jection to a treaty otherwise eligible.

Let me add, too, in the spirit of Mr. Jefferson's letter, that
however it may be our wish to establish the rule with other
nations besides those with whom we have already done it, this
requires their consent also, of course their conviction, that it

464 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

is their interest to consent ; and that, considering the obstacles
which lie in the way, the attainment of the object must be " a
work of timer It presupposes, in some of the principal mari-
time powers, a great change of ideas, which is not to be looked
for very suddenly. It was not, therefore, to have been expected
of our envoy, that he was to have accomplished the point at so
premature and so unfavorable a juncture.

The assertion, that he has abandoned it, is made in too un-
qualified a manner. For while he admits the operation for the
present, of the general rule of the law of nations, he has, by the
12th article, engaged Great Britain in a stipulation, that the par-
ties will, at the expiration of two years after the existing war,
renew their discussion, and endeavor to agree whether in any, and
what cases neutral vessels shall protect enemy's property. It is
true, it will be in the option of Great Britain then, to agree or
not : but it is not less true that the principle is retained with
consent of Great Britain in a negotiable state. So far perhaps
some ground has been retrieved.

I confess, however, that I entertain much doubt as to the
probability of a speedy general establishment of the rule, that
friendly ships shall make friendly goods, and enemy ships enemy
goods. It is a rule against which, it is to be feared, the prepon-
derant maritime power, to whatever nation this character may
belong, will be apt to struggle with perseverance and effect, since
it would tend to contract materially the means of that power to
annoy and distress her enemies, whose inferiority on the sea
would naturally cause their commerce, during war, to be carried
on in neutral bottoms. This consideration will account for the
resistance of Great Britain to the principle, and for the endea-
vors of some other powers to promote it — and it deserves notice,
that her last treaty with France was severely assailed by some of
the chiefs of opposition, for containing a stipulation in favor
of that principle. The motive for consenting to it, in this in-
stance, probably was, that the stipulation was likely to be ren-
dered, in a great degree, nugatory by the relative situation of the
two nations, which, in almost any war in which one of the two
was engaged on one side, would probably render the other a
party on the opposite side.

iEi. 38.] CAMILLUS. 465

If these conjectures be right, there is a reflection which
lessens much the value of stipulations in favor of the rule ; that
so long as one or more of the maritime powers disavow it, there
will be a strong temptation to depart from a scrupulous observ-
ance of such stipulations, as we, in relation to France, have ex-
perienced in the present war.

In the course of the arguments against the 17th article, for
virtually admitting the right of search in time of war, the ob-
jectors have had the temerity to cite the opinion of Vattel, as
being opposed to that right; and a mutilated quotation has given
an appearance of truth to the assertion. It has been heretofore
shown, by passages extracted from his work, that his opinion, so
far from denying explicitly, supports the right to search. But it
may be useful to examine the part of it which has been tortured
into a contrary inference.

After affirming the right of search (B. 3, chap. 7, 8. 14) he
proceeds thus : " but to avoid inconveniences, violence, and every
other irregularity, the manner of the search is settled in the
treaties of navigation and commerce. According to the present
custom, credit is to be given to certificates and bills of lading pro-
duced by the master of the ship." Hence it is alleged the right to
search is turned into the right of inspecting the ship's papers,
which, being entitled to credit, are to preclude further scrutiny.

But what immediately follows, destroys this conclusion ; the
words " unless any ground appear in them, or there be very good
reasons for suspecting their validity," are subjoined to the clause
just quoted. This admits clearly, that the ship's papers are not
to be conclusive — but that, upon just cause of suspicion, the
papers may be disregarded, and the right of search may be exer-
cised.

Who is to be the judge of the credit due to the papers and
of the just cause of suspicion? Manifestly the officer of the
belligerent party, who visits the neutral vessel. Then what does
the whole amount to ? Merely this— that ship's papers are enti-
tled to a certain degree of respect and credit ; how much, is left
to the discretion of the officer of the belligerent party !— who, if
he be not satisfied of the fairness and validity of the papers, may
g 30

466 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

proceed to their verification, by a more strict and particular
search, and then if he still sees, or supposes he sees, just cause of
suspicion, he may carry the vessel into a port of his own country,
for judicial investigation. In doing this, he acts at his peril,
and for an abuse of his discretion exposes himself to damages
and other punishment.

This is the true and evident sense of Vattel, and it agrees
with the doctrine advocated in these papers, and, I will add, with
the treaty under examination.

The 17th article admits, that the vessels of each party for
fust cause of suspicion of having on board enemy's property, or
of carrying to the enemy contraband articles, may be captured
or detained, and carried to the nearest and most convenient port
of the belligerent party, to the end that enemy's property and con-
traband articles aboard may become lawful prize. But so far from
countenancing any proceeding without just cause of suspicion, or
from exonerating the officer of the belligerent party from a re-
sponsibility for such proceeding, it leaves the law of nations, in
this particular, in full force, and contemplating that such officer
shall be liable for damages, when he proceeds without just cause
of suspicion, provides that all proper measures shall be taken to
prevent delay in deciding the cases of ships or cargoes brought
in for adjudication, or in i\\Q ptayment or recovery of any indemnifica-
tion adjudged or agreed to he paid to the masters or owners of such
ships. Besides which, the 19th article stipulates, in order that
more abundant care may be taken for the security of the respec-
tive subjects and citizens of the contracting parties, and to pre-
vent their suffering injuries by the men-of-war and privateers of
either party, that the commanders of ships of war and privateers,
shall forbear doing any damage to those of the other party, com-
mitting any outrage against them ; and that if they act to the
contrary, they shall be punished, and shall also be bound in their
persons and estates, to make satisfaction and reparation for all
damages, and the interest thereof of whatever nature the said
damages may he. And further, after establishing that the com-
manders of privateers shall, before they are commissioned, give
security to satisfy all damages and injuries, it adds, that in all

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 467

cases of aggressions their commissions shall be revoked and an-
nulled.

These provisions not only conform to, and corroborate the
injunctions of the laws of nations, but they refute the assertion,
that the treaty is altogether deficient in precautions for guarding
neutral rights ; since those above-mentioned are among the most
efficacious. It is not presumable that any stipulations have been
or can be made which will take away all discretion from the
marine officers of the belligerent parties ; for this would be a
total surrender of the rights of belligerent to neutral nations,
and so long as any discretion is left, its right or wrong exercise
will depend on the personal character of each officer ; and abuses
can only be restrained by the penalties that await them. Those
stipulations of treaties, then, which reinforce the laws of nations
as to the infliction of penalties, are the most effectual of the pre-
cautions which treaties can adopt for the security of neutral
rights ; and in this particular the treaty with Great Britain is to
the full as provident as our other treaties. In one point I believe
it is more so ; for it expressly stipulates a revocation of the com-
missions of the commanders of privateers, for the aggressions
they may commit.

Is not the passage last cited from Yattel a true commentary
on those stipulations, for regulating and mitigating the right of
search, which are found in our own and other treaties ? Do they
not all intend to reserve to the belligerent party a right of judg-
ing of the validity and fidelity of the papers to be exhibited,
and of extending the search or not, according to the circum-
stances of just suspicion which do or do not appear? and if this
be their true construction, as it certainly is their construction in
practice, which our own experience testifies, to what, after all, do
they amount, more than without them the laws of nations, as
universally recognized, of themselves pronounce ? What real
security do they afford more than the treaty with Great Britain
affords ?

It is much to be suspected, that there will always be found
advantages essentially nominal, operating or not according to the
strength or weakness of the neutral party ; which, if strong, will

46S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

find abundant foundation in the acknowledged laws of nations
on which to rest the protection of its rights.

It has been said to be just matter of surprise, that these pre-
cautions should have no place in a treaty with Great Britain,
whose conduct on the seas, so particularly suggested and en-
forced every guard to our rights that could be reasonably insisted
on. Observations of this kind assume constantly the supposition
that we had it in our power to fashion every provision of the
treaty exactly to our own taste, and that the ideas of the other
contracting party were to have no influence even upon the minor
features of the contract. But this supposition is absurd ; and a
treaty may still be entitled to our approbation, which adjusts ac-
ceptably the great points of interest, though in some of its details
it falls short of our desires. Nor can any well-informed man
sincerely deny that it was to have been expected, that an adjust-
ment of the particulars in question, would fall short of our ideas.
It may be answered, that we were then at liberty not to make
the treaty ; so we were, but does it follow that it would have
been wise to split on such points? — upon a just estimate, their
intrinsic value is very moderate.

Camilltjs.

NO. XXXII.

1795.

The eighteenth article of the treaty, which regulates the sub-
ject of contraband, has been grievously misrepresented; the
objections used against it with most acrimony, are disingenuous
and unfounded I Yet while I make this assertion, which, I flat-
ter myself, I shall be able to prove, I shall not pretend to main-
tain that it is an article completely satisfactory. I even admit
that it has one unpleasant ingredient in it, and I am convinced
that our envoy must have consented to it with reluctance.

But while candor demands this concession, it equally admon-
ishes us, that, under the circumstances of the moment, the points

JEt. 38.] CAM1LLUS. 469

in this respect to be adjusted were peculiarly unmanageable —
that the position of the other party rendered an arrangement
entirely agreeable to us, impracticable ; that without compromise
nothing could have been regulated ; that the article made no
change for the worse in our prior situation, but in some particu-
lars made our ground better; and that estimating truly the rela-
tive circumstances of the parties, there is no probability that any
thing more acceptable could have been established.

I will add, that a degree of imperfection, which may fairly be
attributed to this article, is far from being of such importance,
as, on solid calculations, ought to defeat the treaty. No clear
right is abandoned, no material interest of the nation injured.

It is one thing, whether every part of the treaty be satisfac-
tory— another, and a very different thing, whether in the aggre-
gate it be eligible or not, and ought to be accepted or rejected. Na-
tions could never make contracts with one another, if each were
to require that every part of it should be adjusted by its own
standard of right and expediency. The true question always is
upon the collective merits of the instrument ; whether, upon the
whole, it reasonably accommodates the opinions and interests of
the parties. Tried by this test, the treaty negotiated with Great
Britain, fully justifies the acceptance of it by the constituted
authorities of our country, and claims the acquiescence of every
good citizen.

The most labored, and, at the same time, the most false of the
charges against the eighteenth article is, that it allows provisions
to be contraband in cases not heretofore warranted by the laws
of nations, and refers to the belligerent party, the decision of
what those cases are. This is the general form of the charge.
The draft of a petition to the legislature of Virginia, reduces it
to this shape. The treaty "expressly admits, that provisions are
to be held contraband in cases other than when bound to an in-
vested place, and impliedly admits, that such cases exist at present.'

The first is a palpable untruth, which may be detected by a
bare persual of the article. — The last is an untrue inference, im-
pregnated with the malignant insinuation that there was a design
to sanction the unwarrantable pretension of a right to inflict
famine on a whole nation.

470 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

Before we proceed to an analysis of the article, let us review
the prior situation of the parties. Great Britain, it is known,
had taken and acted upon the ground, that she had a right to
stop and detain, on payment for them, provisions belonging to
neutrals, going to the dominions of France. For this violent
and impolitic measure, which the final opinion of mankind will
certainly condemn, she found color, in the sayings of some writ-
ers of reputation, on public laws.

A passage of this kind, from Vattel, has been more than once
quoted, in these terms, " Commodities, particularly used in war,
and the importation of which, to an enemy, is prohibited, are
called contraband goods. Such are military and naval stores,
timber, horses, and even provisions in certain junctures, when there
are hopes of reducing the enemy by famine." Heinecius* counten-
ances the same opinion, and even Grotius seems to lean towards

it.f

The United States, with reason, disputed this construction of
the law of nations! restraining the general propositions which
appear to favor it, to those cases in which the chance of reduc-
ing by famine was manifested and palpable, such as the cases of
particular places, bona fide, besieged, blockaded or invested.
The government accordingly remonstrated against the proceed-
ing of Great Britain, and made every effort against it which pru-
dence, in the then posture of affairs, would permit. The order
for seizing provisions, was, after a time, revoked.

In this state our envoy found the business, pending the very
war in which Great Britain had exercised the pretension, with
the same administration which had done it, was it to have been
expected that she would, in a treaty with us, even virtually or
impliedly have acknowledged the injustice or impropriety of
the conduct ? Here was no escape, as in the instance of the
order of the 6th of November, 1793, in the misconceptions of
her officers. The question was to condemn a deliberate and un-
ambiguous act of the administration itself. The pride, the repu-
tation, and the interest of that administration forbade it.

* Law of nature and nations. B. 2. C. 9. S. 201. Navibus cb vect.
f Book III. Chap. 1. and V. 3. Chap. 1. and X.

Mt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 471

On our side, to admit the pretensions of Great Britain was
still more impossible. — We had every inducement of character,
right and interest against it. What was the natural and only
issue out of this embarrassment? Plainly, to leave the point
unsettled ; to get rid of it ; to let it remain substantially where
it was before the treaty. This, I have good ground to believe,
was the real understanding of the two negotiators ; and the
article has fulfilled that view.

After enumerating specifically what articles shall be deemed
contraband, it proceeds thus, " And whereas the difficulty of
agreeing on the precise cases, in which alone provisions and other
articles, not generally contraband, may be regarded as such,
renders it expedient to provide against the inconveniences and
misunderstandings which might thence arise : It is further agreed,
that whenever any such articles, so becoming contraband
according to the laws of nations, shall, for that reason, be seized,
the same shall not be confiscated, but the owners thereof shall be
speedily and completely indemnified ; and the captors, or, in their
default, the government under Avhose authority they act, shall
pay to the masters or owners of such vessels, the full value
of all articles with a reasonable mercantile profit thereon, togeth-
er with the freight and also the demurrage, incident to such
detention."

The difficulty of agreeing on the precise cases in which arti-
cles, not generally contraband, become so, from particular cir-
cumstances, is expressly assigned as the motive to the stipulation
which follows. — This excludes the supposition that any cases
whatever were intended to be admitted or agreed. But this dif-
ficulty rendered it expedient to provide against the inconvenien-
ces and misunderstandings which might thence arise — a provi-
sion, with this view, is, therefore, made, which is that of liberal
compensation for the articles taken — The evident intent of this
provision is, that in doubtful cases, the inconveniences to the
neutral party being obviated or lessened by compensation, there
may be the less cause or temptation to controversy and rupture
— the affair may be more susceptible of negotiation and accom-
modation. More than this cannot be pretended; because it is

472 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

further agreed, "that whenever any such articles, so become con-
traband, according to the existing laws of nations, shall, for that
reason, be seized, the same shall not be confiscated, but the
owners thereof shall be speedily and completely indemnified,"
&c. &c.

Thus the criterion of the cases, in which articles, not generally
contraband, may, from particular circumstances, become so, is
expressly the existing law of nations ; in other words, the law of
nations at the time the transaction happens. When these laws
pronounce them contraband, they may, for that reason, be seized ;
when otherwise, they may not be seized. Each party is as free
as the other to decide whether the laws of nations do, in the given
case, pronounce them contraband or not, and neither is obliged to
be governed by the opinion of the other. If one party, on a false
pretext of being authorized by the laws of nations, makes a seizure,
the other is at full liberty to contest it, to appeal to those laws,
and, if it thinks fit, to oppose, even to reprisals and war. This
is the express tenor of the provision — there is nothing to the con-
trary ; nothing that narrows the ground ; nothing that warrants
either party in making a seizure, which the law of nations, inde-
pendent of the treaty, permits ; nothing which obliges either party
to submit to one, when it is of opinion the law of nations has been
violated by it.

But as liberal compensation is to be made in every case of
seizure, whereof difference of opinion happens, it will become a
question of prudence and expediency, whether to be satisfied with
the compensation, or to seek farther redress. The provision will,
in doubtful cases, render an accommodation of opinion the more
easy, and, as a circumstance conducing to the preservation of
peace, is a valuable ingredient in the treaty. A very different
phraseology was to have been expected, if the intention had been,
to leave each party at liberty to seize, agreeably to its own opinion
of the law of nations, upon the condition of making compensa-
tion. The stipulation would thus have been : " It is agreed, that
whenever either of the contracting parties shall seize any such
articles so becoming contraband, and which shall, for that reason,
be seized ;" this makes, not the opinion of either party, but the

JEt. 38.] CAMILLUS. 473

fact of the articles having become contraband by the laws of na-
tions, the condition of the seizure.

A cavil has arisen on the term "existing" as if it had the ef-
fect of enabling one of the parties to make a law of nations for the
occasion. But this is a mere cavil.

No one nation can make a law of nations ; no positive regu-
lation of one state, or of a partial nomination of states, can pretend
to this character. A law of nations is a law which nature, agree-
ment, or usage, has established between nations ; as this may vary
from one period to another by agreement or usage, the article
very properly uses the term " existing," to denote that law, which
at the time the transaction may happen, shall be then the law of
nations. This is a plain and obvious use of the term, which noth-
ing but a spirit of misrepresentation could have perverted to a
different meaning.

The argument against the foregoing construction is in sub-
stance this (viz.), it is now a settled doctrine of the law of na-
tions, that provisions and other articles, not generally contraband,
can only become so when going to a place besieged, blockaded,
or invested— cases of this kind are fully provided for in a sub-
sequent part of the article ; the implication therefore is, that
something more was intended to be embraced in the antecedent

part.

Let us first examine the fact, whether all the cases of that kind
are comprehended in the subsequent part of the article. I say
they are not— the remaining clause of the article divides itself
into two parts. The first describes the case of a vessel sailing for
a port or place belonging to an enemy, without knowing that
the same is either besieged, blockaded, or invested ; and provides,
that, in such case, the vessel may be turned away, but not detain-
ed, nor her cargo, if not contraband, confiscated, unless after
notice she shall again attempt to enter : the second describes the
case of a vessel, or goods, which had entered into such port or
place before it was besieged, blockaded, or invested, and declares
that the one or the other shall not be liable to confiscation, but
shall be restored to the owners thereof. These are the only cases
described or provided for. A third, which occurs on the slightest

474 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

reflection, is not mentioned : the case of a vessel going to a port
or place which, is besieged, blockaded, or invested, with notice of
its being in that state when she commences her voyage, or pre-
vious to her receiving notice from the besieging, blockading, or
investing party. This is left to the operation of the general law
of nations, except so far as it may be affected in respect to com-
pensation by the antecedent clause. Thus the fact, which is the
foundation of the argument, fails, and with it, of course, the
argument itself.

But had this been otherwise, the conclusion would still have
been erroneous — the two clauses are entirely independent of each
other, and though they might both contemplate the same cases
in whole, or in part, they do it with an eye to very different
purposes.

The object of the first is to lessen the danger of misunder-
standing, by establishing this general rule, that whenever articles,
not commonly contraband, become so from particular circum-
stances, according to the law of nations, they shall still not be
confiscated, but, when seized, the owners of them shall be in-
demnified.

The object of the last is to regulate some special consequences
with regard to vessels and goods going to, or which had pre-
viously gone to places besieged, blockaded, or invested ; and in
respect to which the dispositions of the laws of nations may have
been deemed doubtful or too rigorous. Thus it is held, that the
laws of nations permit the confiscation of ships and goods going
to places besieged, blockaded, or invested; but this clause de-
cides, that if going without notice, so far from being confiscated,
they shall not even be detained, but shall be permitted to go
whithersoever they please. If they persist after notice, then the
contumacy shall be punished with confiscation. In both in-
stances the consequence is entirely different from every thing in
the antecedent clause.

There, there is seizure, with compensation. Here, in one
instance, seizure is forbidden, and permission to go elsewhere is
enjoined. In the other instances, the offending things are con-
fiscated, which excludes the idea of compensation. Again, the

At. 38.] C A M ILLUS. 475

last part of the last clause stipulates in the case, which it supposes,
the restoration of the property to its owners, and so excludes
both seizure and compensation. Hence it is apparent the objects
of the two clauses are entirely foreign to each other, and that no
argument nor inference whatever can be drawn from the one to
the other.

If it be asked, what other cases there can be, except those of
places besieged, blockaded, or invested ? and if none other, what
difficulty in defining them ? why leave the point so vague and
indeterminate? One answer, which indeed has already been
given in substance, is, that the situation of one of the parties pre-
vented an agreement at the time ; that not being able to agree,
they could not define ; and the alternative was to avoid definition.
The want of definition only argues want of agreement. It is
strange logic to assert, that this or that is admitted, because
nothing is defined.

Another answer is, that even if the parties had been agreed
that there were no other cases than those of besieged, blockaded,
or invested places, still there would have remained much room
for dispute about the precise cases, owing to the impracticability
of defining what is a besieged, blockaded, or invested place. About
this there has been frequent controversy ; and the fact is so com-
plicated, puts on such a variety of shapes, that no definition can
well be devised, which will suit all. Thence nations, in their
compacts with each other, frequently do not attempt one ; and
where the attempt has been made, it has left almost as much
room for dispute about the definition as there was about the

thing.

Moreover, is it impossible to conceive other cases than those
mentioned above, in which provisions and other articles not
generally contraband might, on rational grounds, be deemed so?
What if they were going expressly, and with notice, to a besieg-
ing army, whereby it might obtain a supply essential to the
success of its operations ? Is there no doubt that it would be
justifiable in such case to seize them ? Can the liberty of trade
be said to apply to any instance of direct and immediate aid to a
military expedition ? It would be at least a singular effect of
HAMILTON'S WORKS. \Mt.M.

the rule, if provisions could be carried without interruption for
the supply of a Spanish army besieging Gibraltar, when, if des-
tined for the supply of the garrison in that place, they might, of
right, be seized by a Spanish fleet.

The calumniators of the article have not had the candor to
notice that it is not confined to provisions, but speaks of provi-
sions and other articles. Even this is an ingredient which com-
bats the supposition that countenance was intended to be given to
the pretension of Great Britain with regard to provisions, which,
depending on a reason peculiar to itself; cannot be deemed to be
supported by a clause including other articles, to which that reason
is entirely inapplicable.

^ There is one more observation which has been made against
this part of the article which may deserve a moment's attention.
It is this, that though the true meaning of the clause, be such
as I contend for, still the existence of it affords to Great Britain
a pretext for abuse which she may improve to our disadvantage.
I answer, it is difficult to guard against all the perversions of a
contract which ill faith may suggest. But we have the same
security against abuses of this sort, which we have against those
of other kinds, namely, the right of judging for ourselves, and
the power of causing our rights to be respected. We have this
plain and decisive reply to make, to any uncandid construction
which Great Britain may, at any time, endeavor to raise, " The
article pointedly and explicitly makes the existing law of na-
tions, the standard of the cases in which you may rightfully seize
provisions and other articles not generally contraband. This
law does not authorize the seizure in the instance in question ;
you have consequently no warrant under the treaty for what
you do."

The same disingenuous spirit which tinctures all the conduct
of the adversaries of the treaty, has been hardy enough to im-
pute to it the last order of Great Britain, to seize provisions going
to the dominions of France.

Strange, that an order issued before the treaty had ever been
considered in this country, and embracing the other neutral
powers besides the United States, should be represented as the

jEt. 39.]

CAM1LLUS. 477

fruit of that instrument !* The appearances are, that a motive
no less imperious than that of impending scarcity, has great share
in dictating the measure, and time, I am persuaded, will prove
that it will not ever be pretended to justify it by any thing in the

treaty.

Camillus.

no. XXXIII.

1796.
The course thus far pursued in the discussion of the 18th arti-
cle, has inverted the order of it, as it stands in the treaty. It is
composed of three clauses ; the two last of which have been first
examined— I thought it advisable, in the outset, to dispose of an
objection which has been the principal source of clamor.

The first clause of that which remains to be examined, enu-
merates the articles, which, it is agreed, shall be deemed contra-
band of war. These are, "all arms, and implements serving for
the purpose of war, such as cannon, muskets, mortars, petards,
bombs, grenadoes, carcases, saucisses, carriages for cannon, mus-
ket-rests, bandoliers, gunpowder, match, salt-petre, balls, pikes,
swords, head-pieces, cuirasses, halberts, lances, javelins, horse
furniture, holsters, belts, and generally all other implements of
war ; as also timber for ship-building, tar or rosin, copper in sheets,
sails, hemp, and cordage, and generally whatever may serve
directly to the equipment of vessels, unwrought iron and fir planks

only excepted."

All which articles are declared to be just objects of confisca-
tion, when attempted to be carried to any enemy of either

party. ,

It is well understood, that war abridges the liberty oi trade ol

neutral nations; and that it is not lawful for them to supply

either of two belligerent parties with any article deemed contra-

* As reasonable would it be to place to its account the similar order which was
issued before the mission of an envoy was thought of.

478 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt .39.

band of war ; nor may they supply any article whatever to a
place besieged, blockaded, or invested. The former case includes
a special catalogue of articles which have an immediate reference
to war — the latter extends to all kinds of goods and merchandise.
The penalty in both cases is confiscation.

These positions have not been disputed. The only question
which has been or can be raised, must respect the enumeration of
the articles which are to be considered as contraband.

In comparing the enumeration in the present treaty, with
that of our former treaties, we find the differences to be these.
Our former treaties include "horses" and one of them "soldiers,"
which our present does not; but our present includes "timber
for ship-building, tar or rosin, copper in sheets, sails, hemp, and
cordage, and generally whatever may serve directly to the equip-
ment of vessels, unwrought iron and fir planks only excepted,"
which are not to be found in our former treaties.

It is alleged that the including of these articles is an extension
of the list of contraband beyond the limit of the modern law of
nations ; in support of which allegation, it is affirmed, that they
have been excluded by the uniform tenor of the treaties which
have been formed for more than a century past.

Though this position will not, upon careful examination, ap-
pear correct; yet it is so far founded, as to claim an acknow-
ledgment, that the article under consideration has, in this
instance, pursued the rigor of the law of nations. It was to this
I alluded, when I observed that it contained one unpleasant
ingredient.

It is a fact, that far the greater proportion of modern treaties
exclude naval stores or articles for ship-building ; yet this is not
universally the case.

By the third article of the treaty of alliance and commerce
between Great Britain and Denmark, in 1670, the parties agree,
" not to furnish the enemies of each other with any provisions of
war, as soldiers, arms, engines, guns, ships, or other necessaries
for the use of war, nor to suffer the same to be furnished by their
subjects." An explanation of this article was made by a conven-
tion, dated the 4th of July, 1780, which, after enumerating as

JEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 479

contraband, the usual catalogue of military implements, adds, in
the precise terms of our article, "as also timber for ship-building,
tar, rosin, copper in sheets, sails, hemp, and cordage, and generally
whatever may serve directly to the equipment of vessels, un-
wrought iron, and fir planks only excepted."

In a series of treaties between Great Britain and Portugal,
down to the year 1703, I do not discover that there has ever
been a regulation of the articles which are to be treated as con-
traband, between these powers.

And between Sweden and Great Britain, the 11th article of
a treaty, entered into in 1661, (and still in force unaltered, though
a subsequent commercial treaty was made between those powers
as late as 1776,) subjects to confiscation equally all articles called
contraband, and especially money, 2>r°visions, &c. This specifica-
tion not being complete, naval stores are left upon the open
ground of the law of nations ; but money and provisions arc
superadded. This latitude would bear little doubt as to the
intention to include naval stores.*

* An opinion has been propagated that Sweden armed in concert with Denmark,
in order to maintain the neutral right of carrying corn and flour to France, in op-
position to the convention of March, 1793, between Great Britain and Russia ; and
that in consequence of this proceeding, the remonstrances of these powers have
proved more successful than we have been in obtaining satisfaction from Great
Britain.

This opinion is, throughout, an error, made use of by those whose persevering
aim has been, by silencing truth, reason, and moderation, and inflaming the angry
passions of the community, to involve the country in anarchy and war. The
authors of this imposture, as well as the exalted patriots who have seen in the me-
morial of our envoy, the humiliation of our country, are referred to a " collection
of state papers relative to the war against France," published by Debret, in 1794.
The perusal of the Swedish state papers, as well as the memorials of the able and
prudent Bernstorff, may teach these gentlemen a little of what is deemed good
manners on these occasions.

So far from even remonstrating, much less arming on account of the British
instruction of June, 1793, when that order was notified at Stockholm, by the
British resident there, the government of Sweden, by their resident at London.
acknowledged, in terms too respectful to be repeated in the hearing of our exclu-
sive patriots, that Sweden was perfectly satisfied with the instruction; since.
instead of payment, which the order insured, all provisions, in virtue of an existing
treaty between the two nations, were liable to confiscation when seized, on their
way to an enemy.

This note is added for the purpose of refuting a popular error, and not to vindi-

4K0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 39.

It appears from these specimens, that there is not a perfect
uniformity in the conventions between nations; and that no
purely positive law of nations can be deduced from that source.

If we call to our aid the principles of reason and natural
justice, which are the great foundations of the law of nations,
we shall not discover, in this instance, data as certain as could be
wished, for a satisfactory conclusion ; and the soundest determi-
nation, which we can adopt, will be, that beyond a certain point,
the question is in a great degree arbitrary, and must depend
materially upon conventional regulation between nation and
nation. Hence it is there is so great a diversity in the stipulations
of different parties on this point; indicating that there is no
absolute rule. Hence also it is, that several nations, at different
times, being at war, have thought themselves authorized to regu-
late and announce, by public declarations, the articles which they
would consider and treat as contraband.

The opinion of writers will be found to support the article as
it stands, in the particular, which is now the subject of discus-
sion.

Vattel, we have before seen, (B. B. C. 3. 6, 7. s. 112,) expressly
ranks naval stores and timber under the denomination of contra-
band goods.

Hienecius (de navibus, &c, chap. I. S. 10, 11 and 14) accords
in the same position to the extent of whatsoever appertains to
the equipment of vessels.*

Bynkershoek is less explicit. After laying it down as the
general rule that naval stores, or the materials of ships, are not
contraband, he proceeds thus — "Yet it sometimes happens that
the materials of ships may be prohibited, if an enemy is in great
icant of tJiem, and ivithout them cannot conveniently carry on the
war ;"f and he afterwards cites, with approbation, several edicts or

cate the instruction alluded to, which I consider as an injury to the rights of neutral
nations, that has not heen justified by the answers that have been given by Great
Britain to the American and Danish memorials.

* Vela, Restes et si quse alia ad apparatum nauticum pertinent.

■j- Quandoque tamen accidit ut et navium materia prohibeatur, si hostis ea
quam maxime indigeat at absque ea commode belluui gerere baud possit. Qusesti-
onum juris Publici L., i. chap, x., page 80.

Mt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 481

proclamations, which the states general, in different wars with
different nations, have published, declaring those articles contra-
band— thus referring it to the belligerent party to judge of, and
pronounce the cases when they may rightfully be deemed so-
And the same idea seems to have been adopted by Grotius* and
some other writers on public law. — I have not met with one
whose opinion excludes naval stores from the list of contraband.
Grotius, in discussing this question, divides goods into three
classes, 1. Those which are of use only in war, as arms, &c. •
2. Those which serve only for pleasure ; 3. Those useful for
peaceable as well as for warlike purposes, " as money, provisions,
ships and naval stores " — concerning which he argues in substance,
that the first class are clearly contraband ; that the second class
are clearly not contraband ; and that the third class may or may
not be so, according to the state and circumstances of the war ;
alleging, that if necessary to our defence, they may he intercepted
but upon condition of restitution, unless there be just cause to
the contrary ; which just cause is explained by the examples of
sending them to a besieged, or blockaded place.

The reasoning about the third class has a very inconvenient
latitude. It subjects the trade of neutral nations too extensively
to the discretion of belligerent powers ; and yet there is a serious
embarrassment about drawing the true line, one which will duly
conciliate the safety of the belligerent, with that of the neutral,
party.

What definition of contraband, consulting reason alone, shall
we adopt ? Shall we say, that none but articles peculiar to war
ought to receive this denomination ? But is even powder exclu-
sively applicable to war? Are nitre and sulphur, its chief ingre-
dients, peculiar to war ? Are they not all useful for other pur-
poses ; some of them in medicine, and other important arts ?
Shall we say, that none but articles prepared and organized for
war, as their primary object, ought to have that character? But
what substantial difference can reason know, between the supply
to our enemy of powder, and that of sulphur and saltpetre, the
easily convertible materials of this mischievous compound ?

* B. iii., c. i., v.
G 31

482 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

How would either of these definitions, or any other, comport
with what those of our treaties which are thought unexceptiona-
ble, in this particular, have regulated, or with what is common
in the treaties between other nations ? Under which of them
shall we bring horses and their furniture ?

If we say, that in wars by land, these are instruments little
less important than men, and, for that reason, ought to be com-
prehended ; it may be asked in return, what can be more neces-
sary in wars by sea, than the materials of ships, and why should
they not, for the like reasons, be equally comprehended ?

In wars between maritime nations, who transfer its calamities
from the land to the ocean, and wage their most furious conflicts
on that element, whose dominions cannot be attacked or defended
without a superiority in naval strength, who moreover possess
distant territories, the protection and commercial advantages of
which, depend upon the existence and support of navies, it is
difficult to maintain, that it is against reason, or against those
principles which regulate the description of contraband, to con-
sider as such the materials which appertain to the construction
and equipment of ships.

It is not a sufficient objection, that these articles are useful
for other purposes, and especially for those of maritime com-
merce. Horses are of primary utility in agriculture ; and it has
been seen that there are other articles indisputably on the list of
contraband, which are entirely within the principle of that objec-
tion.

Eutherforth, a sensible modern writer,* after truly observing,
"that the notion of contraband goods is of some latitude, so that
it is not easy precisely to determine what are and what are not of
this sort — that all warlike stores are certainly contraband, but that
still the question returns, what are to be reckoned warlike stores?"
after noticing the division of articles by Grotius and the diffi-
culties with regard to the third class — draws this conclusion, that
" where a war is carried on by sea as well as by land, not only
ships of war which are already built, but the materials for build-

* Institutes of Natural Law, book ii., chap. x. xix.

JEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 483

ing or repairing of ships, will come under the notion of warlike
stores." This is a precise idea, and, it must be confessed, on
principle, not an irrational one.

If we resort to the opinions which have been entertained and
evidenced in our own country, they will be found to have given
great extent to the idea of contraband. Congress, by an act of
May the 8th, 1777, establishing the form of commissions for pri-
vateers, authorize them " to attack, subdue, and take all ships
and other vessels whatever, carrying soldiers, arms, gunpowder,
ammunition, provisions, or any other contraband goods, to any of
the British armies or ships of war, employed against the United
States." And in their act of the 27th of November, 1780, acced-
ing, in part, to the rule of the armed neutrality, they declare,
that contraband shall be thereafter confined to the articles con-
tained under this character, in our treaty with France ; indicat-
ing, by this, their opinion that the list of those articles is abridged
by that treaty. If the first mentioned act was well founded
(and there are strong reasons for it), it establishes that even pro-
visions may be contraband, if going directly to invading fleets
and armies ; which affords an instance of their being so (analo-
gous to the case heretofore put of a besieging army) in addition
to the cases of places besieged, blockaded, or invested. And as
to naval stores, I assert a belief, that the common opinion of
those persons in this country, whose contemplation had embraced
the subject, included them in the catalogue of contraband.

Nevertheless, from the number of modern treaties, which
exclude from that list naval stores, and moreover from the man-
ifest interest of nations, truly considered, to narrow the rights
of war in favor of those of peace ; this clause of the treaty,
which takes a different route, is to be regretted as pursuing the
rigor of the law of nations.— Still, however, it cannot be object-
ed to, as a departure from the law ; and agreeing with the course
observed by Great Britain antecedent to the treaty, it does not
place our trade in those articles upon a worse footing than it
was, independent of the treaty.

The period of the negotiation was most unpropitious to a
change for the better— in the midst of any maritime war, a

484 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

belligerent nation, enjoying a naval superiority, was like to have-
been tenacious of a right which she supposed herself to possess
to intercept naval supplies to her enemy.— But in a war, in which
it was more than ordinarily possible that the independent exist-
ence of a nation might depend on the retaining a naval superi-
ority, it was to have been foreseen that she would not consent to
relinquish such a right. The alternative was, to insert the article
as it stands, or to omit it wholly.

Had it been omitted, the condition of naval stores would
have been the same as with it. But our merchants would then
have continued to be exposed to uncertain risks, which is always
a great inconvenience. It is desirable, in similar cases, to have
a fixed rule. Merchants can then accommodate their specula-
tions to the rule ; and causes of national contention are avoided.

It is in this view to be regretted, that the cases when provi-
sions may be treated as contraband, could not have been agreed
upon ; but as this was impracticable, the next best thing has
been done, by establishing the certainty of compensation in all
such cases. This gives one important species of security, obvi-
ates one source of contention. And if really there may be
other cases than the universally admitted ones, in which provi-
sions can fairly be deemed contraband (as that designated by the
act of Congress of May 1777) the securing of compensation was
truly a point gained by the article.

But while I confess, that the including of naval stores, among
contraband articles, is an ineligible feature of the treaty, I ought
to declare, that its consequences to the interests of the United
States, as it regards the trade in those articles in time of war,
do not appear to me important. — War between other nations,
when we are at peace, will always increase the demand for our
bottoms, so as to require much additional building of vessels,
and probably in that way to produce a more beneficial species of
employment of the naval stores our country affords, than that of
their exportation for sale.

The adversaries of the treaty are eagle-eyed to spy out in-
stances in which it omits any favorable minutes which are found
in our other treaties ; but they forget to balance the account by

Mt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 485

particulars which distinguish it favorably from those treaties.
Of this nature is the omission of horses from the list of contra-
band, and still more the salutary regulations, with regard to
vessels and their cargoes going to places besieged, blockaded,
or invested. I do not discover that these useful provisions or
their equivalents, are in either of our treaties with France, Hol-
land, or Sweden.

It has been said, in reference to this article, "whenever the
law of nations has been a topic for consideration, the result of
the treaty accommodates Great Britian, in relation to one or both
of the republics at war with her, as well as in the abandonment
of the rights and interests of the United States," — and the fol-
lowing examples' are given, to each of which will be annexed a
reply.

I. " American vessels, bound to Great Britain, are protect-
ed, by sea-papers, against French and Dutch searches; but
when bound to France or Holland, are left exposed to British
searches, without regard to ships' papers." The truth of this
proposition depends on another, which is, that the sea-papers
are to be absolutely conclusive ; but reasons have been given for
doubting this construction, which, it has been remarked, does
not obtain in practice. And it is certainly a violent one, inas-
much as it puts it in the power of the neutral, to defeat the
rights of the belligerent party, in points of great consequence
to its safety.

II. " American provisions, in American vessels, bound to the
enemies of Great Britain, are left by the treaty to the seizure and
use of Great Britain ; but provisions, whether American or not,
in American vessels, cannot be touched by the enemies of Great
Britain." The construction of the treaty, upon which this dif-
ference is supposed, has been demonstrated to be erroneous. —
The difference therefore, does not exist.

III. "British property, in American vessels, is not subject
to FrencLuor Dutch confiscation.— French or Dutch property
in Americrtn vessels, is subject to British confiscation." This
was the case before the treaty, which makes no alteration in
the matter.— Moreover, it is counterbalanced by this circum-

486 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

stance ; — that American property, in British vessels, is subject
to confiscation by France or Holland ; but American property,
in French or Dutch vessels, is not subject to confiscation by
Great Britain.

IV. " Articles of ship-building, bound to the enemies of
Great Britain for the equipment of vessels of trade only, are
contraband. — Bound to Great Britain, for the equipment of ves-
sels of war, are not contraband." This, also, was the case before
the treaty, which, consequently, has not in this particular more
than the former, produced any benefit to one party, to the pre-
judice of the other. I forbear to dwell upon the article of horses,
as falling under a contrary discrimination ; — nor shall I insist on
the additional circumstances, that all American goods not gen-
erally contraband, if going to a place besieged, blockaded, or
invested by French or Dutch forces, are liable to confiscation by
France or Holland ; if going to a place besieged, blockaded, or
invested by British forces, are not liable to confiscation by Great
Britain.

Differences of these several kinds are the accidental results
of the varying views of different contracting powers, and form
slender grounds of blame or praise of the respective contracts
made with them.

The form of the criticisms last stated, leaves little doubt that
it was designed to insinuate an intention in this article to favor
the Monarchs of Great Britain, at the expense of the Republics
of France and Holland. The candor of it may be judged of by
the two facts, first, that it makes no alteration, in this view, in
the antecedent state of things; and secondly, that the relative
situation of Holland, as the enemy of Great Britain, is subse-
quent to the adjustment of the article.

Camillus.

Mt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 487

NO. XXXIV.

1796.

The remaining articles of the treaty principally relate to those
maritime regulations, that are usually inserted in modern trea-
ties between commercial nations — and on that consideration, as
well as from their evident utility in enabling us to distinguish
with precision between what is, and what is not lawful, in re-
lation to those points — they are entitled to our approbation;
still however even some of these customary articles, whose ob-
ject and meaning are so well understood, have been deemed
exceptionable.

The first paragraph of the nineteenth article, in order to pre-
vent injuries by men of war, or privateers, enjoins (as before
noticed) all commanders of ships of war and privateers, and all
other citizens or subjects, of either party, to forbear doing any
damage to those of the other, or from committing any outrage
against them : and declares, that if they act to the contrary, they
shall be punishable, and moreover bound in their persons and
estates to make full satisfaction and reparation for all damages, of
whatsoever nature the same may be.

These prohibitions are conformable with the laws of the Uni-
ted States. If under color of authority, those to whom the same
does not relate, shall receive injury, the act, according to its
circumstances, is an offence, for which the offender is not only
answerable to his own country, but moreover to the injured
party, to whom he is bound to make full and complete repara-
tion.

The open and explicit views of the parties, and their mutual
engagement to put this law in execution against all offenders,
will be a salutary check upon the too frequent irregularities that
occur in the course of war between maritime nations. The para-
graph is a copy of a similar one contained in the fifteenth article
of the commercial treaty between France and Great Britain,
concluded in 1786, and agrees with the fourteenth article of our
treaty with Holland. In order to guard still more effectually

488 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

against the injuries to which the citizens and subjects may be
exposed from the private ships of war of each other, the next
paragraph stipulates, that all commanders of privateers, before
they receive their commissions, shall be subjected to give securi-
ty, by at least two responsible sureties, who have no interest in
the privateer, in the sum of fifteen hundred pounds sterling, or
six thousand six hundred and sixty-six dollars ; or, if the priva-
teer is manned with more than one hundred and fifty men, in the
sum of three thousand pounds sterling, or thirteen thousand three
hundred and thirty-three dollars, to satisfy all damages and inju-
ries committed by such privateers, her officers, or any of her men,
against the tenor of the treaty, or the laws and instructions
for the regulation of their conduct ; and in case of aggression,
the commission of such privateer shall be recalled and made
void.

This particular regulation has been frequently introduced in
modern treaties, and exists in this precise shape in the last treaty
of commerce between France and Great Britain ; I have found
no instance where a larger sum has been mentioned. It has,
with little consideration, been made an objection to this regula-
tion, that the amount of the bonds is not adequate to com-
pensate or satisfy the damages that may be committed by these
privateers.

The preceding part of the article gives the injured party a
remedy against the persons and estates of the aggressors; the
bonds are not required for the exclusive purpose of being the
fund, to which the injured may have recourse for satisfaction ;
but principally for the purpose of excluding from the command
of privateers, those dissolute and irregular characters, who are
not restrained by either moral or political ties, and for whose
good behavior, responsible and disinterested men would not
become bondsmen. The same principle is developed in the civil
administration of every nation. In cases of pecuniary trust, it is
a common and useful precaution, to require surety for the faithful
discharge of the office; and the principal advantage of this regu-
lation is to secure the employment of virtuous and upright offi-
cers. The amount of the bonds required on these occasions is

JEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 489

sufficient for this purpose, though inferior to the property confided
to them.

Thus the treasurer of the United States, who has the custody
of millions, gives bonds for only one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars, the collectors of New- York and Philadelphia for fifty and
sixty thousand dollars ; sums very far short of the public money
[of which they are in the receipt], yet sufficient to secure the
public against characters of doubtful integrity. The adequacy of
the sums, [in the particular case,] is moreover evidenced by the
law and practice of our own country. In the resolution of Con-
gress, of the third of April 1776, which, so far as regards this
point, remained in force throughout the American war, Congress
required that the commander of every privateer, before his com-
mission should be delivered to him, should give bonds, with sure-
ties, to the president of Congress, in the sum of five thousand
dollars, if the vessel was of or under one hundred tons; and of
ten thousand dollars, if the vessel was upwards of one hundred
tons, to observe the rules and instructions prescribed for their
' government. These sums are one quarter less than those required
by the article before us.

The last paragraph, requiring the judges of the admiralty
courts to furnish formal and duly authenticated copies of their
proceedings in cases of the condemnation of vessels or cargoes,
belonging to the citizens or subjects of the parties, is pursuant to
that reasonable course of proceeding, which ought always in this
and similar cases to prevail.

The twentieth article, which is in prevention of piracy, has
the sanction of numerous precedents. A pirate is the common
enemy of all mankind.— All, therefore, should unite in refusing
him assistance and refuge, and in the establishment of such re-
gulations relative to the sale of his plunder, as, by shutting
against him every market, may thereby annihilate the motives
to his piracy.

The twenty-first article stipulates, that the citizens and sub-
jects of the parties, shall do no acts of hostility or violence
against each other, nor accept commissions or instructions so to
act from any foreign state being an enemy to the other party.

490 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

That the enemies of either nation shall not be allowed to invite,
or endeavor to enlist, in their military service, any of the citi-
zens or subjects of the other ; and the laws, prohibiting such
offences, are to be punctually executed. The article farther
stipulates, if any citizen or subject of either party, who has
accepted of a foreign commission to arm a privateer against
the other, it shall be lawful for the said party to treat and pun-
nish the said citizen or subject, having such commission, as a
pirate.

The general tenor of this article is in comformity with the
spirit of our preceding laws on this subject; it is moreover in
perfect unison with the duties of neutrality ; those duties which
a just regard to the principles of integrity, as well as an en-
lightened pursuit of our own interest, require us faithfully to
perform.

Two objections have been offered against this article ; one
that it precludes such of our citizens as, with a view of acquir-
ing military knowledge, would otherwise engage as volunteers int
foreign service — the other, that it [makes] every citizen and
subject, of either party, who has accepted a foreign commission
to arm a privateer against the other, and who shall be taken
in possession of such commission, [liable] to be punished as a
pirate.

In respect to the first objection, if, by a rigorous construction,
the case is included within the prohibition, it should be remark-
ed, that it is applicable only to such engagements as commence
and are made in time of mutual war. If we have citizens, who,
with the view of military education, are inclined to engage in
foreign service, though from past experience there is not much
reason to conclude that the examples would be numerous, they
have full scope, as I understand the article, in the periods of
peace, to enter into any of the regular armies of Europe, that
they may prefer ; and being thus engaged, they are free to make
the campaigns of war against Great Britian, if that is their pas-
sion, without injuring this article. [The prohibition seems to be
against engaging in the military service of a nation, previously
in the condition of " enemy " to one of the parties.]

jEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 491

The second objection has even less plausibility than the first ;
the disingenuous means that have been used to excite a repro-
bation of this clause of the article, manifest the want of truth
and patriotism of those who have employed them : passion and
the spirit of opposition have asserted, that the provision before
us is so extensive as to place the subordinate officers and private
men, on board of a privateer, within the predicament of her
commander; nay, that all persons, citizens, or subjects, of either
nation, who would accept commissions, or [enter, in any capa-
city,] in a foreign army or navy, would, in consequence of this
stipulation, be liable to be treated and punished as pirates. It
is sufficient, after noticing these attempts to impose upon the pub-
lic, to observe that the stipulation [expressly] confines the punish-
ment, in question, to the commanders of privateers, who, con-
trary to the laws of the land, and the clear and equitable obliga-
tions of the members of a neutral nation, shall be taken with
such commission ; and that it does not extend to the under
officers or crew, much less to such persons, as, contrary to the
preceding inhibition of the article, should accept commissions in
a foreign army or navy. In respect to such misdemeanors in all
cases (except that of equipping and commanding a privateer,
which will expose the commander, when taken, to be punished
as a pirate) the offence is cognizable only by the nation [within
whose jurisdiction the offence is committed, or] of which the
offender is a citizen, or subject ; and, by our laws, is punishable
only by fine and imprisonment.

[A perversion of the sense of the clause, stipulating, that
" the law against all such offences and aggressions shall be punc-
tually executed," has been attempted, though nothing can be
more innocent or unexceptionable. Its plain meaning is, that
each party, in the cases falling within its jurisdiction, shall
faithfully put in execution its own laws against the offences and
aggressions, in contravention of the article. A stipulation be-
tween the governments, to execute laws on a certain subject,
can mean nothing else than that each shall execute its own
laws on that subject, in the cases appertaining to its jurisdic-
tion.]

492 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 39.

Though most of the objections preferred against the treaty
are marked with that illiberal spirit which characterizes the
party who have unceasingly labored to bring into discredit the
government of the country, yet few of them have been less veil-
ed than this which condemns a stipulation intended to curb and
restrain the few dissolute and daring characters, who, from the
least worthy of all motives that lead to military enterprise,
might otherwise engage in this piratical warfare.

What virtuous citizen would feel himself justified in accept-
ing such command? What must be the morals of those in-
structors, who contend for a freedom to commit what humanity
and honor forbid ? Every treaty that we have concluded with
other nations is enriched with this stipulation ; not only our
own treaties, but those between other nations contain it. How
is it that we nowhere discover a trace of disapprobation, either
on the part of our statesmen, or from an enlightened people,
against a series of treaties, formed by different public ministers,
and ratified by a succession of Congresses, each of which contains
a provision that the crime of accepting a foreign commission to
arm and command a privateer, against a nation with whom we
are at peace, shall be treated and punished as piracy ? Is it that
our virtue has become less severe ? our morality more indulgent ?
Or is it that our predecessors were less vigilant in defending the
rights of the citizens, than the ostentatious patriots of the present
day? But it is time to dismiss an objection entirely destitute of
integrity and [decency].

Camillus.

NO. XXXV.

1796.
The twenty-second article bears upon its face its own justifi-
cation— it is pursuant to those [maxims which enlightened moral-
ists recommend, and just nations respect]. It prescribes a course
of conduct the most likely to procure satisfaction for injuries,

Mt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 4*»3

and to maintain peace, and is therefore entitled to the approba-
tion of all good men and real patriots. [It is particularly valua-
ble to a weak nation, or a nation in its infancy, as an additional
guard against sudden and unforeseen attacks of more powerful
rivals.]

The first paragraph of the twenty-third article provides for
the hospitable reception of the public or national ships of war of
the parties, in the ports of each other ; and engages that the offi-
cers of such ships shall be free from insult, and treated with
decorum and respect.

The practice which our government has adopted in relation
to these points* independent of parties, is agreeable to this pro-
vision.* And though the stipulation will be of less importance
to us than it would be, were we possessed of a respectable naval
force, yet it may be useful. By our treaty with France, our
ships of war have a right to enter their ports only in case of
urgent necessity, and not freely and for mere convenience.

With Spain and Portugal we have no treaties, and conse-
quently not an ascertained or perfect right to use their ports.
Our navigation must be protected from the Barbary powers by
force or by treaty. It is questionable whether the latter mode
will prove effectual without the support of the former ; Congress
have therefore resolved to equip a small naval force, for the spe-
cial object of protecting our trade against the Algerines, and the
other Barbary powers. Some port convenient to the scene of its
cruising will be of essential advantage to the efficiency and suc-
cess of its employment : not only the ports of Great Britain, but
likewise the port of Gibraltar will, by this article of the treaty,
be open to us ; and our frigates will be there entitled to a hospi-
table reception, and their officers to that respect which shall be
due to the commissions which they bear.

The other paragraph of this article provides, in case an Amer-
ican vessel by stress of weather, danger from enemies, or other
misfortune, should be obliged to seek shelter in any British port,

*See Mr. Jefferson's letter of September 9th, 1793, to Mr. Hammond ; also his
letter of the same date to Mr. Van Berckel.

494 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

into which, in ordinary cases such vessel could not claim to be
admitted, that she shall be hospitably received, permitted to refit,
and to purchase such necessaries as she may want; and, by per-
mission of the local government, to sell such part of her cargo
as may be necessary to defray her expenses. Our treaty with
France contains a similar provision ; but the restrictions with
which it is guarded are less than those of the article before us.

The twenty -fourth article stipulates, that it shall not be lawful
for any foreign privateers, commissioned by any nation at war
with either of the parties, to arm the vessels, or to sell or ex-
change their prizes in the ports of either of the parties ; and
that they shall not be allowed to purchase more .provisions than
shall be necessary to carry them to the nearest port of the nation
from whom they received their commission ; and the twenty-fifth
article stipulates that the ships of war and privateers of either
party may carry whithersoever they please the ships and goods
taken from their enemy ; and that such prizes, on their arrival
in the ports of the parties, shall not be searched, seized, detained,
nor judicially examined touching the validity of their capture,
but may freely depart — and furthermore, that no shelter or refuge
shall be given in the ports of one of the parties to such as have
made prizes upon the citizens or subjects of the other. Though
the law of nations is explicit, that one nation having foftned a par-
ticular stipulation with another, is not capable, by a subsequent
treaty with a third nation, to do away or annul its former stipu-
lations, but that the elder treaty, in such case, remains in full
force, notwithstanding such posterior and contradictory treaty ;
yet, in order to remove all cavil on this point, and to maintain a
scrupulous regard to good faith, even in appearance as well as in
reality, and especially in relation to our treaty with France, the
article further declares, " that nothing in the treaty contained
shall be construed or operate contrary to former and existing
public treaties with other sovereigns or states," and adds, that
neither of the parties, while they continue in friendship, will
form any treaty inconsistent with this and the preceding article.
[This last clause has been censured as an undue restraint ; while
it is in fact a mere redundancy ; as long as a treaty between two

Mi. 39.] CAM ILL US. 495

nations continues in force, it is against good faith for either to
form a treaty with another nation inconsistent with it ; if the
treaty is once disclosed, by whatever means, no treaty with an-
other nation can be inconsistent with it. The clause, therefore,
only converts into an express promise, what without it is an im-
plied one, that the parties will not contravene their stipulations
with each other by repugnant engagements with a third party.
The disingenuity on this point has gone so far as to torture the
clause into a positive stipulation against any treaty with anoth-
er power conferring peculiar advantages of commerce upon that
power. It is a sufficient reply to this, that the clause is expressly
confined to the. twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth articles; deter-
mining nothing as to the other articles of the treaty. The gene-
ral principle of this last objection has been sufficiently discussed
elsewhere.]

The article concludes with a mutual engagement, that neither
of the parties will permit the ships or goods of the other to be
taken within cannon shot of the coast, nor in any of the bays,
ports, or rivers of their territories ; and in case of such capture,
the party whose territorial rights are violated shall use his ut-
most endeavors to obtain full satisfaction for the vessels or goods
taken. This stipulation is conformable to the duty and practice
of nations who have entered into no special engagements re-
quiring the same, and agrees with a common provision in public
treaties.

Hitherto we have prudently avoided granting to any nation
a right to arm their privateers or to sell their prizes in our ports ;
our laws are explicit in prohibiting such equipments ; and the
exclusion thereof, contained in the twenty fourth article, is
agreeable to the declared policy of the country. We have en-
gaged in our treaty with France to prohibit her enemies from
selling their prizes within our ports; but not having engaged
to permit France to sell her prizes therein, we were free to agree
with Great Britain, that her enemies shall likewise be prohibited
from selling their prizes within our territory. A clause in the
twenty -fifth article denies all refuge to the ships of war and pri-
vateers that have made prizes upon either of the parties ; and the

496 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 39.

last clause of the twenty-fourth article stipulates, that foreign
privateers, enemies to either of the parties, shall not be allowed
to purchase more provisions than sufficient to carry them to the
nearest port of the nation from whom they received their com-
missions.

These clauses will operate only against such nations as have
not, by an elder treaty, secured a right of reception in the ports
of the parties. Still, however, it is alleged that these articles
violate our treaty with France. It has already been observed
that the treaty contains a clear and explicit agreement of the
parties, excepting from its operation all former existing public
treaties. Our treaty with France is an antecedent and existing
public treaty, and consequently excepted, in all its parts, from
the operation of the treaty before us. Whatever right or privi-
lege, therefore, is secured to France in virtue of that treaty, she
will continue to enjoy, whether the same respects the reception
of her public ships of war, privateers or prizes, in our ports, or
the exclusion therefrom of those of her enemies.

Could there be a doubt on this point, the practice of other
nations, and especially that of France, on the very point, would
effectually remove it. The fifteenth and thirty-sixth articles of
the commercial treaty of Utrecht, between France and Great
Britain, contain the same stipulations as the twenty-fourth and
twenty-fifth articles of the treaty before us. That treat}' was in
existence and force at the time of forming our treaty with
France, yet France found no difficulty in the insertion of the
same stipulations in her treaty with us. She could not have con-
sidered their insertion in the treaty with us as a violation of her
treaty with Great Britain, otherwise good faith would have re-
strained her. The war that soon after took place between France
and Great Britain, dissolved the treaty of Utrecht. Our treaty
with France remained in force ; yet, in the year one thousand
seven hundred and eighty-six, France and Great Britain entered
into a commercial treaty, the sixteenth and fortieth articles of
which renew the stipulations contained in the fifteenth and
thirty-sixth articles of the treaty of Utrecht.

If France was free, first to form these stipulations with us, in

^Et. 39.] CAMILLUS. 1D7

1778, notwithstanding her prior and existing treaty with Great
Britain, and afterwards in 1786 to renew the same stipulations
with Great Britain, we must be equally free in a treaty with
the same, or any other power, to agree to similar stipulations.
Both were free, and neither violates the former engagements, by
assenting, as we have done, to these stipulations in a posterio)
treaty.

It is further alleged, that these articles are injurious to the
interest of the United States, because they prohibit, in certain
cases, foreign privateers to rendezvous in our ports, and to sell
within our territory, the prizes they may have taken. If it is
desirable to render our principal sea-ports and cities scenes of
riot and confusion; if it is politic to divide our citizens, by in-
fusing into their minds the hostile spirit with which the nations
at war are animated against each other ; if we are prepared to see
the prostration of public authority, and to behold the laws
trampled upon by armed banditti; if we are ready to invite our
citizens to abandon their regular and useful employments, and
to engage, as adventurers, even against each other, in the pur-
suit of plunder, then is the objection well-founded, then is the
restraint pernicious, then is the stipulation worthy of condemna-
tion. But if to establish the reverse of all this, is the effort and
aim of every wise and prudent government, the stipulation in
question demands the approbation of all virtuous citizens.

But were none of these consequences to be apprehended
from the free admission of the privateers of all nations engaged
in war, and the permission to sell their plunder, it would, not-
withstanding, be against the interests of the United States to
allow the same. It is a sound commercial principle, that the
interest of buyers, as well as sellers, is best promoted by a free
competition. Ihe great number of the sellers of foreign manu-
factures and productions, afford the best market for the buyers.
The great number of buyers of our productions, afford the best
market for the sellers — foreign privateers are precarious sellers,
and buyers only for their own consumption. They drive away
and banish from our markets, both buyers and sellers. When
our coasts are lined with foreign privateers that rendezvous in
G 32

498 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39

our ports, the merchant ships of all nations, not excepting our
own, will be liable to interruption, and discouraged from coming
to our markets; and those of the belligerent powers will be
generally excluded. Our markets might, perhaps, derive sup-
plies from the prizes that such privateers should take, so as, in
some degree, to compensate for the deficiency that would pro-
ceed from the exclusion of foreign merchantmen ; but this supply
would be uncertain, irregular, ill-assorted, and partial, while the
principal commercial detriment would exist without mitigation,
that of a partial or total destruction of foreign competition in the
purchase of our agricultural and other productions.

If, moreover, it is the duty, as well as the interest, of the
United States, to observe an exact and scrupulous neutrality,
amidst the wars of other nations, one of the most efficacious
means of effecting that purpose, will be, to remove every temp-
tation that might lead our citizens to an opposite course. No
allurement would be more likely to seduce them from their duty
than that which is offered by the expected gains of privateering
— no avenue of political mischief should, therefore, be more
carefully closed.

If these articles are exceptionable, in any respect, it is that
in imitation of the analogous articles of our treaty with France,
they allow the privateers of the parties, in cases not inconsistent
with former treaties, to rendezvous in, and their prizes to be
brought into, each other's ports and harbors : it would, in my
judgment, have been the true policy of the United States, as well
as with the view of maintaining an impartial and decided neu-
trality in the wars of Europe, from a participation in which our
remote situation, with [due] prudence, is an exemption; as like-
wise, in order to promote, in the most advantageous manner, our
national prosperity, totally and for ever to hawe excluded all
foreign privateers and prizes from our ports and harbors.

But having entered into these stipulations with France, by
which she has the use of all our ports against all other nations,
we having the use of her ports only against those nations who
have not an elder treaty with her, it would have manifested an
unwise partiality to have refused to enter into similar stipula-

JEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 499

tions with other nations who might desire them ; accordingly they
are found in our treaties with as well as in that un-

der consideration — another refutation of the objection to this
last as being in these respects repugnant to that with France.

The twenty-sixth article provides, in case of a rupture be-
tween the parties, that the merchants and others of each nation,
residing in the dominions of the other, may remain and continue
their trade during good behavior; in case, however, their con-
duct should become suspicious, they may be removed, and a
twelvemonth after the publication of the order of removal is to
be allowed for that purpose : but this term is not to be granted
to such persons as act contrary to law, or are guilty of any of-
fence against the government: all such persons may be forth-
with removed or sent out of the respective dominions of the par-
ties. The residue of the article is calculated to ascertain the con-
dition of the parties, when the rupture shall be deemed to exist
— each nation remains the exclusive judge of the foreigners
among them, and will be able to decide from their behavior, how
far their residence may be compatible with the public safety. In
case of suspicion only, that their residence will prove detrimen-
tal, they may order them to depart, reasonable time being allow-
ed them to collect their effects. On the one hand, the article
affords to the parties perfect security against the irregular and
suspicious conduct of foreigners, who may be among them on the
breaking out of war, and, on the other, consults with that liberal-
ity which the modern usage of nations sanctions, the safety and
convenience of those, who, under the faith of the respective gov-
ernments, have chosen a residence in the dominions of the par-
ties. Our treaties with France, Holland, and Sweden, secure to
the merchants of the respective parties a limited period, after the
commencement of war, within which they may collect their ef-
fects, and remove ; and the article before us relative to this sub-
ject, is a transcript of the second article of the treaty of com-
merce, of 1786, between France and Great Britain. [The objec-
tion, therefore, to there being a certain term within which they
cannot be removed upon bare suspicion lies against our other
treaties and against almost all the treaties of Europe for many

500 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 39.

years — the pretence to order away upon mere supposition would
defeat all the stipulations, that allow a certain term to collect,
sell, and remove debts and effects; and for that reason could not
be supported.

The remainder of the article which gives an option to each
party, either to request the recall, or immediately to send home,
the ambassador of the other without prejudice to their mutual
friendship and good understanding, is a valuable feature. The
power " immediately to send home,11 without giving offence, avoids
much delicate embarrassment connected with an application to
recall — it renders it easier to arrest an intriguing minister in the
midst of a dangerous intrigue, and it is a check upon the minis-
ter by placing him more completely in the power of the gov-
ernment with which he resides. These last circumstances are
particularly important to a republic, one of the chief dangers
of which, arises from its exposure to foreign intrigue and cor-
ruption.]

The twenty -seventh article, which provides for the delivery
of all persons, charged with murder or forgery committed within
the jurisdiction of one party, and who have taken refuge within
the territories of the other, is a regulation of peculiar worth be-
tween nations whose territories are contiguous to each other ;
without such regulation, the ease with which the perpetrators
of these atrocious crimes might escape punishment, especially
on the frontiers, by passing out of one jurisdiction into the other,
would, in a great measure, destroy the security against these of-
fences, that arises from the fear and certainty of punishment.
The provision, that such delivery shall not be made unless upon
the exhibition of such evidence of criminality, as, according to
the laws of the place where the fugitive shall be found, would
justify his apprehension and commitment for trial, if the crime
had there been committed, will prevent vexatious requisitions,
and is a caution due to the rights of individuals.

The twenty-eighth, and concluding article, establishes, that
the first ten articles of the treaty, shall be permanent ; that the
remaining ones, except the twelfth, which, with the twenty-fifth,
constitute the body of the commercial part of the treaty, shall be

Mr. 39.] CAMILLUS. 501

limited in their duration to twelve years ; and reciting, that the
twelfth will end, by its own limitation, at the end of two years
after the termination of the present European war, further estab-
lishes, that, within the last mentioned term, and in time to perfect
the business by the expiration of that term, the discussion of the
subject of the twelfth article shall be renewed, and if the parties
cannot agree on such new arrangement, concerning it, as may be
satisfactory, that then all the said remaining articles (in other
words, all but the first ten) shall cease and expire together. This
article, which is an entirely independent one, obviates the doubt,
affected to be entertained, whether the exception in the ratifica-
tion, with regard to the twelfth article, did not do away the stip-
ulation, by which the continuance of the treaty, except the first
ten articles, beyond the term of two years after the expiration of
the war, is made to depend on a further arrangement of the West
India trade. This separate article is positive and conclusive,
absolutely annulling the treaty at that time, if such an arrange-
ment be not made, and thereby places it in the power of either
party so to manage the matter as to put an end to all the com-
mercial part of it, except what relates to inland trade and naviga-
tion with the neighboring British territories, at the end of the
short period of two years from the termination of the existing
war. This alone is sufficient to confound all the high-charged
declamations against the tendency of the treaty to ruin our trade
and navigation.

Camillus.

NO. XXXVI.

179G.

It is now time to fulfil my promise of an examination of the
constitutionality of the treaty. Of all the objections which have
been contrived against this instrument, those relating to this point
are the most futile. — If there be a political problem capable of
complete demonstration, the constitutionality of the treat}*, in all

502 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 39.

its parts, is of this sort. — It is even difficult to believe, that any
man in either house of Congress, who values his reputation for
discernment or sincerity, will publicly hazard it by a serious at-
tempt to controvert the position.

It is, nevertheless, too much a fashion with some politicians,
when hard pressed on the expediency of a measure, to intrench
themselves behind objections to its constitutionality — aware that
there is naturally in the public mind a jealous sensibility to ob-
jections of that nature, which may predispose against a thing
otherwise acceptable, if even a doubt, in this respect, can be rais-
ed. They have been too forward to take advantage of this
propensity, without weighing the real mischief of the example.
For, however it may serve a temporary purpose, its ultimate
tendency is, by accustoming the people to observe that alarms
of this kind are repeated with levity and without cause, to prepare
them for distrusting the cry of danger when it may be real : yet
the imprudence has been such, that there has scarcely been an
important public question, which has not involved more or less
of this species of controversy.

In the present case, the motives of those who may incline to
defeat the treaty, are unusually strong for creating, if possible, a
doubt concerning its constitutionality.

The treaty, having been ratified on both sides, the dilemma
plainly is between a violation of the Constitution, by the treaty,
and a violation of the Constitution by obstructing the execution
of the treaty.

The Vlth article of the Constitution of the United States,
declares, that " the Constitution and the laws of the United
States, made in pursuance thereof, all treaties made, or which shall
be made under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme
law of the land, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State
to the contrary notwithstanding." A law of the land, till revoked
or annulled, by the competent authority, is binding, not less on
each branch or department of the government than on each indi-
vidual of the society. Each house of Congress collectively, as
well as the members of it separately, are under a constitutional
obligation to observe the injunctions of a pre-existing law, and

jEt. 39.] CAM1LLUS. 503

to give it effect — if they act otherwise, they infringe the Consti-
tution ; the theory of which knows, in such case, no discretion on
their part. — To resort to first principles for their justification, in
assuming such a discretion, is to go out of the Constitution for an
authority, which they cannot find in it — it is to usurp the original
character of the people themselves — it is, in principle, to prostrate
the government.

The cases must be very extraordinary that can excuse so vio-
lent an assumption of discretion. They must be of a kind to
authorize a revolution in government; — for every resort to origi-
nal principles, in derogation from the established Constitution,
partakes of this character.

Kecalling to view, that all but the first ten articles of the
treaty are liable to expire at the termination of two years after
the present war; if the objection to it in point of constitutionality
cannot be supported — let me ask, who is the man hardy enough
to maintain, that the instrument is of such a nature as to justify
a revolution in government?

If this can be answered in the affirmative, adieu to all the
securities which nations expect to derive from constitutions of
government. They become mere bubbles, subject to be blown
away by every breath of party. The precedent would be a fatal
one — our government, from being fixed and limited, would become
revolutionary and arbitrary — all the provisions which our Con-
stitution, with so much solemnity, ordains " for forming a more
perfect union, establishing justice, insuring domestic tranquillity,
providing for the common defence, promoting the general welfare,
and securing the blessings of liberty to ourselves and posterity,"
evaporate and disappear

Equally will this be the case, if the rage of party spirit can
meditate, if the momentary ascendency of party, in a particular
branch of the government, can effect, and if the people can be so
deceived as to tolerate — that the pretence of a violation of the
Constitution shall be made the instrument of its actual viola-
tion.

This, however, cannot be — there are already convincing indi-
cations on the very subject before us, that the good sense of the

504 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

people will triumph over prejudice and the acts of party — that
they will finally decide according to their true interest, and that
any transient or partial superiority, which may exist, if abused
for the purpose of infracting the Constitution, will consign the
perpetrators of the infraction to ruin and disgrace. But alas !
what consolation would there be in the ruin of a party for the
ruin of the Constitution ?

It is time to enter on the momentous discussion. The ques-
tion shall be examined in the four following views — 1. In rela-
tion to the theory of the Constitution — 2. In relation to the man-
ner in which it was understood by the convention who framed
it, and by the people who adopted it — 3. In relation to the
practice upon a similar power in the confederation — 4. In rela-
tion to the practice under our present constitution, prior to the
treaty with Great Britain.- — In all these views, the constitution-
ality of the treaty can be vindicated beyond the possibility of a
serious doubt.

1. As to the theory of the Constitution. — The Constitution of
the United States distributes its powers into three departments,
legislative, executive, judiciary. — The first article defines the
structure, and specifies the various powers, of the legislative de-
partment— the second article establishes the organization and
powers of the executive department — the third article does the
same with respect to the judiciary department — the fourth and
fifth, and sixth articles, which are the last, are a miscellany of
particular provisions.

The first article declares that " all legislative power granted
by the Constitution shall be vested in a Congress of the United
States, which shall consist of a Senate and a House of Represen-
tatives."

The second article, which organizes and regulates the exe-
cutive department, declares that the " executive power- shall be
vested in a President of the United States of America;" and
proceeding to detail particular authorities of the executive, it
declares that the " President shall have power, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties, provided
two-thirds of the senators present concur." There is in no part

Mr. 39.] CAMILLUS. 505

of the Constitution any explanation of this power to make trea-
ties, any definition of its objects, or delineation of its bounds. —
The only other provision in the Constitution respecting it, is in
the sixth article, which provides, as already noticed, that all
treaties made or which shall be made under the authority of the
United States, shall be the supreme law of the land! — and this
notwithstanding any thing in the Constitution or laws of any
State to the contrary.

It was impossible for words more comprehensive to be used
than those which grant the power to make treaties. They are
such as would naturally be employed to confer a plenipotentiary
authority. — A power " to make treaties," granted in these inde-
finite terms, extends to all kinds of treaties, and with all the
latitude which such a power, under any form of government,
can possess — the power " to make" implies a power to act autho-
ritatively and conclusively, independent of the after-clause which
expressly places treaties among the supreme laws of the land.
The thing to be made is a treaty.

With regard to the objects of the treaty, there being no spe-
cification, there is, of course, a carte blanche. The general pro-
position must, therefore, be, that whatever is a proper subject of
compact, between nation and nation, may be embraced by a
treaty between the President of the United States, with the
advice and consent of the Senate, and the correspondent organ
of a foreign state.

The authority being general, it comprises, of course, what-
ever cannot be shown to be necessarily an exception to it,

The only constitutional exception to the power of making
treaties is, that it shall not change the Constitution ; which re-
sults from this fundamental maxim, that a delegated authority
cannot alter the constituting act, unless so expressly authorized
by the constituting power. An agent cannot new-model his
own commission. — A treaty, for example, cannot transfer the
legislative power to the executive department, nor the power of
this last department to the judiciary ; in other words, i( cannot
stipulate that the President, and not Congress, shall make laws
for the United States, that the judges, and not the President,
shall command the national forces.

506 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

Again, there is also a national exception to the power of
making treaties, as there is to every other delegated power,
which respects abuses of authority in palpable and extreme cases.
On natural principles, a treaty, which should manifestly betray
or sacrifice the private interests of the state, would be null. But
this presents a question foreign from that of the modification or
distribution of constitutional powers. It applies to the case of
the pernicious exercise of a power, where there is legal com-
petency. Thus the power of treaty, though extending to the
right of making alliances offensive and defensive, might not be
exercised in making an alliance, so injurious to the state as to
justify the non-observance of the contract.

Beyond these exceptions to the power, none occurs that can
be supported.

Those which have been insisted upon, towards invalidating
the treaty with Great Britain, are not even plausible. They
amount to this, that a treaty can establish nothing between the
United States and a foreign nation, which it is the province of
the legislative authority to regulate in reference tp the United
States alone. It cannot, for instance, establish a particular rule
of commercial intercourse between the United States and Great
Britain ; because it is provided in the Constitution, that Congress
" shall have power to regulate commerce loith foreign nations.'1'' This
is equivalent to affirming that all the objects upon which the
legislative power may act, in relation to our country, are except-
ed out of the power to make treaties.

Two obvious considerations refute this doctrine. One, that
the power to make treaties, and the power to make laws, are dif-
ferent things, operating by different means, upon different sub-
jects ; the other, that the construction resulting from such a doc-
trine would defeat the power to make treaties, while its opposite
reconciles this power with the power of making laws.

The power to make laws is " the power of pronouncing
authoritatively the will of the nation as to all persons and
things over which it has jurisdiction :" or it may be defined to
be "the power of prescribing rules binding upon all persons and
things over which the nation has jurisdiction." It acts compul-

Mr. 39.] CAMILLUS. 507

sively upon all persons, whether foreigners or citizens, and upon
all things within the territory of such nation, and also upon its
own citizens and their property without its territory in certain
cases and under certain limitations. But it can have no obliga-
tory action whatsoever upon a foreign nation, or upon any person
or thing within the jurisdiction of a foreign nation.

The power of treaty, on the other hand, is the power by
agreement, convention, or compact, to establish rules binding upon
two or more nations, their respective citizens and property. The
rule established derives its reciprocal obligation from promise,
from the faith which the contracting parties pledge to each other
— not from the power of either to prescribe a rule for the other.
It is not here the will of a superior that commands ; it is the con-
sent of two independent parties that contract.

The means which the power of legislation employs, are laws
which it enacts, or rules which it enjoins ; the subject upon which
it acts is the nation of whom it is, the persons and property
within the jurisdiction of the nation. The means which the
power of treaty employs, are contracts with other nations, who
may or may not enter into them — the subjects upon which it
acts, are the nations contracting and those persons and things of
each to which the contract relates. Though a treaty may effect
what a law can, yet a law cannot effect what a treaty does.
These discriminations are obvious and decisive ; and however
the operation of a treaty may, in some things, resemble that of a
law, no two ideas are more distinct than that of legislating and
that of contracting.

It follows that there is no ground for the inference pretended
to be drawn, that the legislative powers of Congress are excepted
out of the power of making treaties. It is the province of the
latter to do what the former cannot do. Congress (to pursue
still the case of regulating trade) may regulate, by law, our own
trade and that which foreigners come to carry on with us; but
they cannot regulate the trade which we may go to carry on in
foreign countries ; they can give to us no rights, no privileges
there. This must depend on the will and regulations of those
countries ; and, consequently, it is the province of the power of

508 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

treaty to establish the rules of commercial intercourse between
foreign nations and the United States. The legislative may reg-
ulate our own trade, but treaty only can regulate the national
trade between our own and another country.

The Constitution accordingly considers the power of treaty as
different from that of legislation. This is proved in two ways :
1. That while the Constitution declares that all the legislative
powers which it grants shall be vested in Congress, it vests the
power of making treaties in the President with consent of the
Senate. 2. That the same article by which it is declared that the
executive power shall be vested in a President, and in which sun-
dry executive powers are detailed, gives the power to make
treaties to the President, with the auxiliary agency of the Sen-
ate. Thus the power of making treaties is placed in the class of
executive authorities ; while the force of laws is annexed to its
results. This agrees with the distribution commonly made by
theoretical writers, though perhaps the power of treaty, from its
peculiar nature, ought to form a class by itself.

When it is said that Congress shall have power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, this has reference to the distri-
bution of the general legislative power of regulating trade be-
tween the national and the particular governments ; and serves
merely to distinguish the right of regulating our external trade,
as far as it can be done by law, which is vested in Congress, from
that of regulating the trade of a State within itself, which is left
to each State.

This will the better appear from the entire clause. "The
Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States and with the Indian tribes,"
which is the same as if it had been said, The whole powers of
regulating trade by law shall reside in Congress, except as to the
trade within a State, the power to regulate which shall remain
with such State. But it is clearly foreign to that mutual regula-
tion of trade between the United States and other nations, which,
from the necessity of mutual consent, can only be performed by
treaty. It is indeed an absurdity to say, that the power of regu-
lating trade by law is incompatible with the power of regulating

jEt. 39.]

CAMILLUS. 509

it by treaty ; since the former can, by no means, do what the
Utter can alone accomplish ; consequently, it is an absurdity to
say, that the legislative power of regulating trade is an exception
to the power of making treaties.

Laws are the acts of legislation of a particular nation for
itself. Treaties are the acts of the legislation of several nations
for themselves jointly and reciprocally. The legislative powers
of one state cannot reach the cases which depend on the joint
legislation of two or more states. For this, resort must be had
teethe factitious power, or the power of treaty. This is another
attitude of the subject, displaying the fallacy of the proposition,
that the legislative powers of Congress, are ^exceptions to, or
limitations of, the power of the President, with the aid of the

Senate, to make treaties.

Camillus.

NO. XXXVII.

1796.

It shall now be shown, that the objections to the treaty,
founded on its pretended interference with the power of Congress,
tend to render the power of making treaties, in a very great
degree, if not altogether, nominal. This will be best seen by an
enumeration of the cases of pretended interference. ^

1st. The power of Congress to lay taxes, is said to be im-
paired by those stipulations which prevent the laying of duties
on particular articles ; which also prevent the laying of higher
or other duties on British commodities than on the commodities
of other countries, and which restrict the power of increasing the
difference of duties on British tonnage and on goods imported m
British bottoms.

2d. The power of Congress to regulate trade is said to be im-
paired by the same restrictions respecting duties, inasmuch as
they are intended, and operate, as regulations of trade— by the
stipulations against prohibitions in certain cases ; and, m general,

510 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Jfr. 39.

by all the rights, privileges, immunities, and restrictions in trade,
which are contained in the treaty ; all which are so many regula-
tions of commerce, which are said to encroach upon the legislative
authority.

3d. The power of Congress to establish an uniform rule of
naturalization, is said to be interfered with, by those provisions
of the treaty which secure to the settlers, within the precincts of
the British posts, the right of becoming citizens of the United
States, and those which, in certain cases, remove the disability of
alienism as to propert}^.

4th. The power of Congress " to define and punish piracies
and felonies, committed on the high seas, and offences against
the law of nations," is said to be contravened by those parts of
the treaty, which declare that certain acts shall be deemed piracy,
which constitute certain other things offences, and stipulate the
reciprocal punishment of them by each.

5th. It is also said that the Constitution is violated, in rela-
tion to that provision which declares, that " no money shall be
drawn from the treasury but in consequence of appropriations
made by law" — by those parts of the treaty which stipulate com-
pensations to certain commissioners, and indemnifications to Great
Britain, in certain cases to be adjusted and pronounced by the
commissioners; and generally, by all those parts which may
involve an expenditure of money.

6th. The Constitution is said to be violated in that part which
empowers Congress to dispose of, and make all needful rules and
regulations respecting the territory, or other property of the
United States, by those provisions of the treaty which respect
the adjustment of boundary in the cases of the rivers St. Croix
and Mississippi.

Lastly. The Constitution is said to be violated, in its pro-
visions concerning the judiciary department, by those parts of
the treaty which contemplate the confiding to the determination
of commissioners certain questions between the two nations.

A careful inspection of the treaty with these objections in
view, will discover, that of the 28 articles which compose it, at
least seventeen are involved in the charge of unconstitutionality ;

iET. 39.] CAMILLUS. 511

and that these seventeen comprise all the provisions which adjust
past controversies, or establish rules of commercial intercourse
between the parties. The other eleven, which are the 1st, 10th
17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 22d, 23d, and 24th, except the 1st, are
made up of provisions which have reference to war ; the first
merely declaring that there shall be peace between the parties.
And it is a question, even with respect to all of these, except the
1st, and 10th, whether they also are not implicated in the charge-
inasmuch as some of their dispositions have commercial rela-
tions. Is not this alone sufficient to bring under a strong sus-
picion the validity of the principles which impeach the constitu-
tionality of the instrument?

It must have been observed that the argument in the last
number is applicable to all the legislative powers of Congress as
well as to that of regulating trade, which was selected, by way of
illustration, on the ground of its being common to all. — Indeed
the instance of the regulations of trade is that which is most
favorable to the opposite doctrine, since foreign nations are
named in the clause ; the true intent of which, however, has been
explained.

The same reasoning, too, would extend the power of treaties
to those objects which are consigned to the legislation of indi-
vidual States ; but here the Constitution has announced its mean-
ing in express terms, by declaring, that the treaties which have
been and shall be made under the authority of the United States,
shall be the supreme law of the land, any thing in the Constitu-
tion or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding. This
manifestly recognizes the supremacy of the power of treaties over
the laws of particular States, and goes even a step farther.

The obvious reason for this special provision, in regard to the
laws of individual States, is, that there might otherwise have been
room for question — whether a treaty of the Union could embrace
objects, the internal regulation of which belonged to the separate
authorities of the States. But with regard to the United States
there was no room for a similar question.

The power of treaty could not but be supposed commensurate
with all these objects to which the legislative power of the Union

512 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 2%

extended, which are the proper subjects of compacts with foreign
nations.

It is a question among some theoretical writers — whether a
treaty can repeal pre-existing laws f This question must always
be answered by the particular form of government of each na-
tion. In our Constitution, which gives, ipso facto, the force of
law to treaties, making them equal with the acts of Congress, the
supreme law of the land, a treaty must necessarily repeal an an-
tecedent law contrary to it ; according to the legal maxim that
" leges posteriores priores contrarias aoroganV

But even in those forms of government, in which there may
be room for such a question, it is not understood that a treaty
containing stipulations which require the repeal of antecedent
laws, is, on that account, unconstitutional and null. The true
meaning is, that the antecedent laws are not, ipso facto, abrogated
by the treaty — but the legislature is, nevertheless, bound in good
faith, under the general limitation, stated in another place, to lend
its authority to remove obstacles which previous laws might op-
pose to a fair execution of a treaty.

One instance of the inconsistency, prevailing in the arguments
against the treaty negotiated by Mr. Jay, is observable in this
point. To get rid of the infractions of our treaty of peace with
Great Britain by certain laws of particular States, it is strenuously
maintained that treaties control the laws of States. To impeach
the constitutionality of the treaty under consideration, it is object-
ed, that, in some points, it interferes with the objects of State
legislation. The express provision of the Constitution in this
particular, quoted above, has not been sufficient to check the
rage for objection.

The absurdity of the alleged interferences will fully appear,
by showing how they would operate upon the several kinds of
treaties usual among nations. These may be classed under three
principal heads. 1. Treaties of commerce, 2. Treaties of alliance,
3. Treaties of peace.

Treaties of commerce are, of course, excluded; for every
treaty of commerce is a system of rules devised to regulate and
govern the trade between contracting nations ; invading directly

jEt. 39.] CAM1LLUS. 513

tlie exclusive power of regulating trade which is attributed to
Congress.

Treaties of alliance, whether defensive or offensive, are equally
excluded, and this on two grounds — 1. Because it is their imme-
diate object to define a case or cases in which one nation shall
take part with another in war, contrary, in the sense of the objec-
tion, to that clause of the Constitution which gives to Congress
the power of declaring war ; and 2. Because the succors stipu-
lated, in whatever shape they may be, must involve an expendi-
ture of money — not to say, that it is common to stipulate succors
in money, either in the first instance or by way of alternative.
It will be pertinent to observe incidentally, in this place, that
even the humane and laudable provision in the seventeenth arti-
cle, which all have approved, is within the spirit of the objection ;
for the effect of this is to restrain the power and discretion of
Congress to grant reprisals, till there has been an unsuccessful
demand of justice. Nothing can better illustrate the unreasona-
ble tendency of the principle.

Treaties of peace are also excluded, or, at the least, are so
narrowed as to be in the greatest number of cases impracticable.
The most common conditions of these treaties are restitutions or
cessions of territory, on one side or on the other, frequently on
both sides, regulations of boundary — restitutions and confirma-
tions of property — pecuniary indemnifications for injuries or ex-
penses.— It will, probably, not be easy to find a precedent of a
treaty of peace, which does not contain one or more of these pro-
visions, as the basis of the cessation of hostilities, and they are all
of them naturally to be looked for in an agreement which is to put
an end to the state of war between conflicting nations.

Yet they are all precluded by the objections which have been
enumerated : pecuniary indemnifications, by that which respects
the appropriations of money ; restitutions or cessions of terri-
tory or property, regulations of boundary, by that which respects
the right of Congress to dispose of, and make all needful rules
and regulations concerning the territory and property of the
United States. It is to be observed, likewise, that cessions of
territory are almost always accompanied with stipulations in favor
G 33

514 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

of those who inhabit the ceded territory, securing personal privi-
leges and private rights of property ; neither of which could be
acceded to on the principles of that objection, which relates to
the power of naturalization ; for this power has reference to two
species of rights, those of privilege and those of property. An
act allowing a foreigner to hold real estate is so far an act of na-
turalization ; since it is one of the consequences of alienism, not
to be able to hold real estate.

It follows, that if the objections which are taken to the treaty,
on the point of constitutionality, are valid, the President, with
the advice and consent of the Senate, can make neither a treaty
of commerce nor alliance, and rarely, if at all, a treaty of peace.
It is probable, that on a minute analysis, there is scarcely any
species of treaty which would not clash, in some particular, with
the principle of those objections; and thus, as was before ob-
served, the power to make treaties, granted in such comprehen-
sive and indefinite terms, and guarded with so much precaution,
would become essentially nugatory.

This is so obviously against the principles of sound construc-
tion ; it, at the same time, exposes the government to so much
impotence in one great branch of political power, in opposition
to a main intent of the Constitution ; and it tends so directly to
frustrate one principal object of the situation of a general gov-
ernment, the convenient management of our external concerns,
that it cannot but be rejected by every discerning man who will
examine and pronounce with sincerity. It is against the principles
of sound construction ; because these teach us, that every instru-
ment is so to be interpreted, as that all the parts may, if possible,
consist with each other, and have their effect. But the construc-
tion which is combated would cause the legislative power to
destroy the power of making treaties. Moreover, if the power
of the executive department be inadequate to the making of the
several kinds of treaties, which have been mentioned, there is,
then, no power in the government to make them ; for there is
not a syllable in the Constitution which authorizes either the
legislative or judiciary departments, to make a treaty with a
foreign nation. And our Constitution would then exhibit the

jEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 515

ridiculous spectacle of a government without a power to make
treaties with foreign nations ; a result as inadmissible as it is ab-
surd ; since, in fact, our Constitution grants the power of making
treaties, in the most explicit and ample terms, to the President,
with the advice and consent of the Senate. On the contrary, all
difficulty is avoided, by distinguishing the province of the two
powers, according to ideas which have been always familiar to
us, and which were never exposed to any question till the treaty
with Great Britain gave exercise to the subtilties of party spirit.

By confining the power to make laws within its proper sphere,
and restricting its actions to the establishment of rules for our
own nation and those foreigners who come within our jurisdic-
tion— and by assigning to the power of treaty the office of con-
certing those rules of mutual intercourse and connection, be-
tween us and foreign nations, which require their consent as well
as our own ; allowing to it the latitude necessary for this purpose, a
harmonious agreement is preserved between the different powers
of the government: that to make laws, and that to make treaties;
between the authority of the legislative and the authority of the
executive department. Hence,

Though Congress, by the Constitution, have power to lay
taxes, yet a treaty may restrain the exercise of it in particular
cases. For a nation, like an individual, may abridge its moral
power of action by agreement ; and the organ charged with the
legislative power of a nation may be restrained in its operation
by the agreements of the organ of its federative power, or power
to contract : let it be remembered, that the nation is the constitu-
ent, and that the executive, within its sphere, is no less the organ
of its will than the legislature.

Though Congress are empowered to make regulations of trade,
yet they are not exclusively so empowered — but regulations of
trade may also be made by treaty ; and, where other nations are
to be bound by them, must be made by treaty.

Though Congress are authorized to establish a uniform rule
of naturalization, yet this contemplates only the ordinary cases of
internal administration; in particular and extraordinary cases,
those in which the pretensions of a foreign government are to be

516 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

managed — a treaty may also confer the rights and privileges of
citizens; thus the absolute cession and plenary dominion of a
province or district, possessed by our arms in war, may be ac-
cepted by the treaty of peace, on the condition that its inhabit-
ants shall, in their persons and property, enjoy the privileges of
citizens.

The same reasoning applies to all the other instances of sup-
posed infraction of the legislative authority : with regard to
piracies and offences against the laws of nations ; with regard to
expenditures of money, with regard to the appointment of officers,
with regard to the judiciary tribunals, with regard to the disposal
and regulation of the national territory and propeily. In all
these cases, the power to make laws and the power to make
treaties are concurrent and co-ordinate. The latter, and not the
former, must act, where the co-operation of other nations is re-
quisite.

As to what respects the commissioners agreed to be appointed,
they are not, in a strict sense, officers. They are arbitrators
between the two countries. Though in the Constitutions, both
of the United States and of most of the individual States, a par-
ticular mode of appointing officers is designated — yet, in prac-
tice, it has not been deemed a violation of the provision to
appoint commissioners or special agents for special purposes, in
a different mode.

As to the provision, which restricts the issuing of money
from the treasury, to cases of appropriation by law, and which,
from its intrinsic nature, may be considered as applicable to the
exercise of every power of government, it is, in no sort, touched
by the treaty. In the constant practice of the government, the
cause of an expenditure, or the contract which incurs it, is a
different thing from the appropriation for satisfying it. Thus
the salary of a public officer is fixed by one law, the appropri-
ation for its payment by another. So, the treaty only stipulates
what may be a cause of expenditure. An appropriation by law
will still be requisite for actual payment.

As to the disposal and regulation of the territory and pro-
perty of the United States, this will be naturally understood of

Mr. 39.] CAMILLUS. 517

dispositions and regulations purely domestic, and where the title
is not disputed by a foreign power. Where there are interfering
claims of foreign powers, as neither will acknowledge the right
of the other to decide, treaty must directly or indirectly adjust
the dispute.

So far then it is from being true, that the power of treaty
can extend to nothing upon which, in relation to ourselves, the
legislative power may act — that it may rather be laid down as
a general rule, that a treaty may do between different nations
whatever the legislative power of each may do with regard to
itself. The exceptions to this rule are to be deduced from the
unfitness and inconvenience of its application to particular cases,
and are of the nature of abuses of a general principle.

In considering the power of legislation in its relations to the
power of treaty, instead of saying, that the objects of the former
are excepted out of the latter, it will be more correct, indeed it
will be entirely correct, to invert the rule, and to say, that the
power of treaty is the power of making exceptions, in particular
cases, to the power of legislation. The stipulations of treaty are,
in good faith, restraints upon the exercise of the last-mentioned
power. Where there is no treaty, it is completely free to act.
Where there is a treaty, it is still free to act in all the cases not
specially excepted by the treaty. Thus, Congress is free to re-
gulate trade with a foreign nation, with whom we have no treaty
of commerce, in such manner as they judge for the interest of the
United States; and they are also free so to regulate it with a
foreign nation with whom we have a treaty, in all the points
which the treaty does not specially except. There is always,
therefore, great latitude for the exercise of the legislative power
of regulating trade with foreign nations, notwithstanding any
treaties of commerce which may be formed.

The effects of a treaty to impose restraints upon the legislative

powers, may, in some degree, be exemplified by the case of the

compacts which the legislature itself makes, as with regard to the

public debt. Its own compacts are, in good faith, exceptions to

its power of action. Treaties with foreign powers, for obvious

reasons, are much stronger exceptions.

Camillus.

518 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

NO. XXXVIII. — AND LAST.

1796.

The manner in which the power of treaty, as it exists in the
Constitution, was understood by the convention in framing it,
and by the people in adopting it, is the point next to be con-
sidered.

As to the sense of the convention, the secrecy with which
their deliberations were conducted, does not permit any formal
proof of the opinions and views which prevailed in digesting the
power of treaty. But from the best opportunity of knowing the fact,
I aver, that it was understood by all, to be the intent of the pro-
vision to give to that power the most ample latitude — to render
it competent to all the stipulations, which the exigencies of na-
tional affairs might require ; competent to the making of treaties
of alliance, treaties of commerce, treaties of peace, and every
other species of convention usual among nations ; and competent,
in the course of its exercise for these purposes, to control and
bind the legislative power of Congress. And it was emphatically
for this reason, that it was so carefully guarded ; the co-operation
of two-thirds of the Senate, with the President, being required to
make any treaty whatever. I appeal for this, with confidence,
to every member of the convention — particularly to those in
the two houses of Congress. Two of these are in the House of
Eepresentatives, Mr. Madison, and Mr. Baldwin : it is expected
by the adversaries of the treaty, that these gentlemen will, in
their places, obstruct its execution. However this may be, I feel
a confidence that neither of them will deny the assertion I have
made — to suppose them capable of such a denial were to suppose
them utterly regardless of truth. But, though direct proof of
the views of the convention on the point, cannot be produced,
yet we are not wholly without proof on this head.

Three members of the convention dissented from the Consti-
tution ; Mr. Mason, Mr. Gerry, and Mr. Randolph. Among the
reasons for his dissent, published by Mr. Mason, we find this
clause : " By declaring all treaties supreme laws of the land, the

Mr. 39.] CAM1LLUS. 519

Executive and Senate have, in many cases, an exclusive power of
legislation, which might have been avoided by proper distinctions
with respect to treaties, and requiring the assent of the house of re-
presentatives where it could be done with safety." This shows
the great extent of the power, in the conception of Mr. Mason :
in many cases amounting to an exclusive power of legislation ; nor
did he object to the extent, but only desired that it should have
been further guarded, by certain distinctions, and by requiring,
in certain cases, the assent of the House of Representatives.

Among the objections to the Constitution, addressed by Mr.
Gerry to the legislature of Massachusetts, we find one to have
been, "that treaties of the highest importance might be formed by
the President, with the advice of two-thirds of a quorum of the
Senate." This shows his idea of the magnitude of the power ;
and impliedly admitting with Mr. Mason, the propriety of its ex-
tent, he seems only to have desired that the concurrence of the
Senate should have embraced two-thirds of the ivhole body, instead
of two-thirds of a quorum. But how small and how insignificant
would the power of treaty be, according to the doctrine lately
promulgated, with regard to its constitutional limit ?

As to the sense of the community in the adoption of the Con-
stitution, this can only be ascertained from two sources, the
writings for and against it, and the debates in the several State
conventions — while it was under consideration.

I possess not, at this moment, materials for an investigation,
which would enable me to present the evidence they afford ; but
I refer to them, with confidence, for proof of the fact, that the
organization of the power of treaty, in the Constitution, was at-
tacked and defended with an admission on both sides, of its be-
ing of the character which I have assigned to it. Its great extent
and importance — its effect to control, by its stipulations, the
legislative authority, were mutually taken for granted, and upon
this basis, it was insisted, by way of objection — that there were
not adequate guards for the safe exercise of so vast a power ;
that there ought to have been reservations of certain rights, a
better disposition of the power to impeach, and a participation,
general or special, of the House of Representatives in the making
of treaties.

520 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [2Et. 39.

The reply to these objections, acknowledging the delicacy
and magnitude of the power, was directed to show that its organ-
ization was a proper one, and that it was sufficiently guarded.*

* The Federalist, No. XLII, has these passages : "The power to make treaties
and to receive and send ambassadors, speak their own propriety— both of them
are comprised in the articles of confederation, with the difference only that the for-
mer is disembarrassed by the plan of the convention, of an exception by which trea-
ties might be substantially frustrated by regulations of the States." This plainly
alludes to the proviso which has been cited and commented upon. " It is true that
when treaties of commerce stipulate for the nominal appointment of consuls, the
admission of foreign consuls may fall within the power of making commercial
treaties." And in number LXIV. are these passages: "The power of making
treaties is an important one, especially as it relates to war, peace, and commerce; and it
should not be delegated but in such a mode and with such precautions as will afford
the highest security, that it will be exercised by men the best qualified for the pur-
pose, and in the manner most conducive to the public good." " There are few who
will not admit, that the affairs of trade and navigation should be regulated by a
system cautiously formed and steadily pursued, and that both our treaties and our
laws should correspond with, and be made to promote it." " Some are displeased
with it (that is, the power of treaty), not on account of any errors or defects in it,
but because, as the treaties, when made, are to have the force of laws, they should
be made only by men invested with legislative authority ;" " others, though con-
tent that treaties should be made in the mode proposed, are averse to their being
the supreme law of the land."

It is generally understood that two persons were concerned in the writings of
these papers, who, from having been members of the convention, had a good op-
portunity of knowing its views— and were under no temptation at that time, in this
particular, to misrepresent them.

In the address and reasons of dissent of the minority of the convention of Penn-
sylvania to their constituents, they state, that they had suggested the following
proposition, among others, for an amendment to the Constitution, " That no trea-
ty which shall be directly opposed to the existing laws of the United States in
Congress assembled, shall be valid until such laws shall be repealed or made con-
formable to such treaty." This shows that it was understood that the power of
treaty in the Constitution extended to abrogating even pre-existing laws of the
United States, which was thought exceptionable; while no objection was made to
the idea of its controlling future exercises of the legislative power. The same ad-
dress states, in another place, that the President and Senate "may form treaties
with foreign nations, that may control and abrogate the Constitution and laws of
the several States."

In the 2d volume of the Debates of the Convention of Virginia, which is the
only part I possess, there are many passages that show the great extent of the
power of treaty in the opinion of the speakers on both sides. As quotations would
be tedious, I will content myself with referring to the papers where they will be
found, viz., 91, 99, 131, 137, 143, 147, 150, 186. It will, in particular, appear, that

jEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. <r>21

The manner of exercising a similar power under the confede-
ration shall now be examined.

To judge of the similarity of the power, it will be useful to
quote the terms in which it was granted. They are these : " The
United States in Congress assembled, shall have the sole and
exclusive right and power of entering into treaties and alliances,
provided that no treaty of commerce shall be made, whereby the
legislative power of the respective States shall be restrained from
imposing such imposts and duties on foreigners as their own
people are subject to, or from prohibiting the importation or
exportation of any species of commodities whatsoever." (Ar-
ticle IX.)

It will not be disputed that the words " treaties and alli-
ances " are of equivalent import, and of no greater force than
the single word " treaties." An alliance is only a species of
treaty, a particular of a general ;— and the power of "entering
into treaties," which terms confer the authority under which
the former government acted, will not be pretended to be
stronger than the power "to make treaties," which are the
terms constituting the authority under which the present govern-
ment acts ; it follows, that the power, respecting treaties, un-
der the former, and that under the present government, are
similar.

But though similar, that under the present government is
more comprehensive ; for it is divested of the restriction in the
provision cited above, and is fortified by the express declaration,
that its acts shall be valid notwithstanding the Constitution or
laws of any State. — This is evidence (as was the fact) of a dis-
position in the convention to disembarrass and reinforce the pow-
er of treaty. It ought not to pass unnoticed, that an important
argument results from the proviso, which accompanies the power
granted by the confederation as to the natural extent of this
power. The declaration that no treaty of commerce shall be

while the opposers of the Constitution denied the power of the House of Represen-
tatives to break in upon, or control the power of treaties, the friends of the Constitu-
tion did not affirm the contrary, but merely contended, that the House of Repre-
sentatives might check by its influence the President aud Senate— on the subject of
treaties.

522 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

made restraining the legislative power of a State from imposing
such duties and imposts on foreigners as their own people are
subject to, or from prohibiting the importation or exportation of
any species of commodities whatsoever, is an admission, 1. That
the general power of entering into treaties, included that of mak-
ing treaties of commerce, and 2. That without the limitation in
the proviso, a treaty of commerce might have been made which
would restrain the legislative authority of the State in the points
interdicted by that proviso.

Let it not be said, that the proviso, by implication, granted
the power to make treaties of commerce, under which Congress
afterwards acted ; for besides that this is inconsistent with the
more obvious meaning of the clause, the first article of the con-
federation leaves to the States individually every power not ex-
pressly delegated to the United States in Congress assembled.
The power of Congress, therefore, to make a treaty of commerce,
and every other treaty they did make — must be vindicated on
the ground that the express grant of power to enter into treaties
and alliances is a general, which necessarily included as particu-
lars the various treaties they have made, and the various stipula-
tions of those treaties.

Under this power, thus granted and defined, the alliance with
France was contracted: guaranteeing, in the case of a defen-
sive war, her West India possessions, and when the casus fcederis
occurs, obliging the United States to make war for the defence
of those possessions, and consequently, to incur the expenses of
war.

Under the same power, treaties of commerce were made with
France, the Netherlands, Sweden, and Prussia.' — Besides that
every treaty of commerce is necessarily a regulation of commerce
between the parties, it has been shown in the antecedent com-
parison of those treaties,* with that lately negotiated, that they
produce the specific effects of restraining the legislative power
from imposing higher or other duties on the articles of those

* Articles 2d, 3d, and 4th of treaty with France, 2d, 3d, and 20th of treaty
with Russia, 2d_and 3d of treaty with Holland, 3d and 4th of treaty with Sweden.

JEt. 39.]

CAMILLUS. 523

nations than on the like articles of other nations, and from ex-
tending prohibitions to them which shall not equally extend to
other nations the most favored ; and thus abridge the exercise of
the legislative power to tax, and the exercise of the legislative
power to regulate trade.

These treaties likewise define and establish the same case of
piracy, which is defined in the treaty with Great Britain. More-
over, the treaty with France, as has been elsewhere shown, with
regard to the rights of property, naturalizes the whole French na-
tion.

The consular convention with France, negotiated, likewise,
under the same power, grants to the consuls of that country, va-
rious authorities and jurisdiction, some of a judicial nature, which
are actual transfers to them of portions of the internal jurisdiction
and ordinary judiciary power of the country; the exercise of
which our government is bound to aid with its whole strength.
It also grants exemptions to French consuls from certain kinds
of taxes, and to them, and French citizens, from all personal ser-
vice ; all which are extremely delicate interferences with our
internal policy and ordinary jurisdiction.

Under the same power, the treaty with Morocco was formed,
which, besides various other regulations relative to war, and
several relative to trade, contains the rule, that neither party
shall make war without a previous demand of reparation ; in
restraint of the general discretionary power of Congress to declare

war

Under the same power, the treaty of peace with Great Britain
was made. This treaty contains the establishment of a boundary
line between the parties, which, in part, is arbitrary, and could
not have been predicated upon precise antecedent right. It also
prohibits the future confiscation of the property of adherents to
Great Britain : declares that no person shall, on account of the
part he took in the war, suffer any future loss or damage in his
person, liberty, or property, and provides for the release of such
persons from confinement, and the discontinuance of prosecutions

against them. . . , - ...

It is difficult to conceive a higher act of control, both of the

524 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 39.

legislative and judiciary authority, than by this article. These
provisions are analogous in principle, to those stipulations which,
in the second and ninth articles of the treaty under examination,
have given occasion to constitutional objection.

Under the same power, various treaties with Indians, inhabit-
ing the territory of the United States, have been made, establish-
ing arbitrary lines of boundary with them : which determine the
right of soil on the one side and on the other. Some of these
treaties proceed on the principle of the United States having
conquered the Indian country, and profess to make gratuitous
concessions to them of the lands which are left to their occupa-
tion. There is also a feature of importance common to these trea-
ties, which is the withdrawing of the protection of the United States
from those of their citizens, who intrude on Indian laws, leaving
them to be punished at the pleasure of the Indians.

Hence it appears, that, except as to the stipulations for ap-
pointing commissioners, the treaties made under the confederation,
contain all the features, identically or by analogy, which create
constitutional objections to the treaty before us : they restrain, in
certain instances, the legislative power to lay taxes ; they make
numerous and important regulations of trade ; they confer the
benefit of naturalization as to property ; they define cases of pi-
racy ; they create causes of expenditure ; they direct and modify
the power of war ; they erect, within the country, tribunals unknown
to our constitutions and laws, in cases to which these are compe-
tent— whereas the treaty with Great Britain only provides for the
appointment of arbitrators in cases to which our tribunals and
laws are incompetent ; and they make dispositions concerning
the territory and property of the United States.

It is true, that some of the treaties made under the former
government, though subsequent to the proposing of the articles
of confederation to the States, were prior to the final adoption of
these articles ; but still it is presumable that the treaties were
negotiated with an eye to the powers of the pending national
compact. Those with Great Britain, Sweden, Russia, and Moroc-
co, and the convention with France, were posterior to the com-
pletion of that compact.

Mr. 39.] CAMILLU8. 525

It may, perhaps, be argued, that a more extensive construction
of the power of treaty, in the confederation, than in our present
Constitution, was countenanced by the union in the same body of
legislative powers with the power of treaty. But this argument
can have no force, when it is considered that the principal legis-
lative powers with regard to the objects embraced by the treaties
of Congress, were not vested in that body, but remained with the
individual States. Such are the power of specific taxation, the
power of regulating trade, the power of naturalization, &c.

If in theory the objects of legislative power are excepted out
of the power of treaty, this must have been equally, at least, the
case with the legislative powers of the State governments as with
those of the United States. Indeed the argument was much
stronger for the objection, where distinct governments were the
depository of the legislative power, than where the same govern-
ment was the depository of that power and of the power of treaty.
Nothing but the intrinsic force of the power of treaty could have
enabled it to penetrate the separate spheres of the State govern-
ments. The practice under the confederation for so many years,
acquiesced in by all the States, is, therefore, a conclusive ill ustration
of the power of treaty, and an irresistible refutation of the novel
and preposterous doctrine, which impeaches the constitutionality
of that lately negotiated. If the natural import of the terms used
in the Constitution were less clear and decisive than they are,
that practice is a commentary upon them, and fixes their sense.
For the sense in which certain terms were practised upon in a
prior constitution of government, must be presumed to have been
intended, in using the like terms in a subsequent constitution of
government for the same nation.

Accordingly, the practice under the present government be-
fore the late treaty, has corresponded with that sense.

Our treaties with several Indian nations regulate and change
the boundaries between them and the United States. And in
addition to compensations in gross, they stipulate the payment of
certain specific and perpetual annuities. Thus a treaty in August,
1790, with the Creeks (article 5) promises them the yearly sum
of one thousand five hundred dollars. And similar features are

526 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEx. 39.

found in subsequent treaties with the Six Nations, the Cherokees,
and the North Western Indians. This last has just been ratified
by the unanimous voice of the Senate. It stipulates an annuity of
9500 dollars — and relinquishes to the Indians, a large tract of
land which they had, by preceding treaties, ceded to the United
States.

Hence we find that our former treaties under the present
government, as well as one subsequent to that under considera-
tion, contradict the doctrine set up against its constitutionality —
in the important particulars of making dispositions concerning
the territory and property of the United States, and binding
them to raise and pay money. These treaties have not only been
made by the President, and ratified by the Senate, without any
impeachment of their constitutionality, but the House of Repre-
sentatives lias heretofore concurred, and without,. objection, in
carrying them into effect, by the requisite appropriation of
money.

The consular convention with France stands in a peculiar pre-
dicament. It was negotiated under the former government, and
ratified under the present ; and so may be regarded as a treaty of
both governments, illustrative of the extent of the power of
treaty in both. The delicate and even the extraordinary nature
of the provisions it contains, have been adverted to. Though
all reflecting men have thought ill of the propriety of some of
them, as inconveniently breaking in upon our interior adminis-
tration, legislative, executive and judiciary ; only acquiescing in
them from the difficulty of getting rid of stipulations entered
into by our public agents under competent powers, yet no ques-
tion has been heard about their constitutionality. And Congress
have, by law, assisted their execution by making our judicial
tribunals, and the public force of the country, auxiliary to the
decrees of the foreign tribunals which they authorize within our
territory.

If it should be said, that our Constitution, by making all
former treaties and engagements as obligatory upon the United
States, under that Constitution, as they were under the confedera-
tion, rendered the ratification of the convention a matter of

JEt. 39.] CAMILLUS. 527

necessity — the answer is, that either the engagements, Avhich it
contracted, were already conclusive, or they were not — if the
former, there was no need of a ratification ; if the latter, there was
no absolute obligation to it. And, in every supposition, a ratifi-
cation by the President, with the consent of the Senate, could
have been predicated only upon the power given in the present
Constitution in relation to treaties ; and to have any validity,
must have been within the limit of that power.

But it has been heretofore seen that the inference from this
instrument is no less strong, if referred to the power under the
confederation, than if referred to the power under the present
Constitution.

How happens it, that all these invasions of the Constitu-
tion, if they were such, were never discovered, and that all the
departments .of the government, and all parties in the public
councils should have co-operated in giving them a sanction?
Does it not prove that all were convinced, that the power of
treaty, applied in our exterior relations to objects, which, in the
ordinary course of internal administration and in reference to
ourselves, were of the cognizance of the legislative power ? and
particularly that the former was competent to bind the latter in
the delicate points of raising and appropriating money ? If com-
petent to this, what legislative power can be more sacred, more
out of its reach?

Let me now ask (and a very solemn question it is, especially
for those who are bound by oath to support the Constitution)
has it not been demonstrated that the provisions in the treaty
are j ustified by the true and manifest interpretation of the Con-
stitution— are sanctioned by the practice upon a similar power
under the confederation, and by the practice in other instances
under the present government ?

If this has been demonstrated, what shall we think of the
candor and sincerity of the objections which have been erected
on the basis of a contrary supposition ? Do they not unequi-
vocally prove, that the adversaries of the treaty have been re-
solved to discredit it by every artifice they could invent ? That
they have not had truth for their guide, and consequently aiv

528 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

very unfit guides for the public opinion, very unsafe guardians
of the public welfare ?

It is really painful and disgusting to observe sophisms so
miserable as those which question the constitutionality of the
treaty, retailed to an enlightened people, and insisted upon with so
much seeming fervency and earnestness. It is impossible not to
bestow on sensible men, who act this part, the imputation of
hypocrisy. The absurdity of the doctrine is too glaring to per-
mit even charity itself to suppose it sincere. If it were possible
to imagine that a majority in any branch of our government,
could betray the Constitution, and trifle with the nation, so far
as to adopt and act upon such a doctrine — it would be time to
despair of the republic.

There would be no security at home, no respectability abroad.
Our constitutional charter would become a dead letter. The
organ of our government for foreign affairs would be treated
with derision whenever he should hereafter talk of negotiation or
treaty. May the great Euler of nations avert from our country
so grievous a calamity ! *

Camillus.

EXPLANATION.

November 11th, 1795.

A very virulent attack has recently been made upon the

President of the United States, the present Secretary of the

Treasury and myself, as his predecessor in office, on the ground

of extra payments to the President on account of his salary.

* It is very probable that a treaty with Algiers is now on its way to the United
States, which may be expected to contain similar stipulations with that with Mo-
rocco. This treaty, which will have cost the United States no trifling sum, and will
be of very great value to our trade, must equally fall, on the doctrine which I
oppose.

JEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 520

The charges against all the three are no less heinous than those
of intentional violation of the Constitution, of the law, and of
their oaths of office. I use the epithet intentional, because though
not expressly used in the terms of the attack, it is implied in
every line of it, since an involuntary error of construction, if that
could ever be made out, would not warrant the imputation " of
contemning and despising every principle which the people have
established for the security of their rights, of setting at defiance all
law and authority, and of servile submission and compliance with
the lawless will and pleasure of a President."

Were considerations personal to myself alone to be considered,
the present attempt would be treated with no greater attention
than has been shown to all the anonymous slanders by which I
have been so long and so implacably persecuted. But convinced
by a course of observation for more than four years, that there
exists in this country an unprincipled and daring combination,
to obstruct by any means, which shall he necessary and can he com-
manded, not short even of force, the due and efficient administration
of the present government, to make our most important national
interests subservient to those of a foreign power, and as means to
these ends to destroy, by calumny and misrepresentation, the
confidence of the people in the truly virtuous men of our
country ; and to transfer it, with the power of the state, to am-
bitious hypocrites and intriguing demagogues, perhaps corrupted
partisans ; perceiving likewise, that this infatuated combination,
in the belief that the well-earned esteem and attachment of his
fellow-citizens towards the Chief Magistrate of the United States,
is the principal remaining actual obstacle to the execution of
their plan, are making the most systematic efforts to extinguish
those sentiments in the breasts of the people ; I think it a duty
to depart from my general rule of conduct, and to submit to the
public with my name, an explanation of the principles which
have governed the Treasury Department on the point in ques-
tion.

I shall state in the first place, that the rule with regard to
expenditures and appropriations which has uniformly regulated
the practice of the department is this, (viz.,) to issue no money
Q 34

530 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

from the Treasury, but for an object for which there ivas a lata pre-
viously passed making an appropriation, and designating the fund
from which the money was to arise; but there being such a laic, and
an adequate fund to support the expenditure, it was deemed justifiable,
as well before as after the service was performed, or the supply obtained,
for which the appropriation was designed, to make disbursements
from the Treasury for the object, if it appeared safe and expedient so
to do. If made before, it was an advance or anticipation, for
which the party was charged, and held accountable till exon-
erated by the performance of the service, or the furnishing of the
supply. If afterwards, it was a payment, and went to some gene-
ral head of account as such.

Thus, if a sum was appropriated for provisions for the army
for a particular year, it was common to make advances on account
to the contractors, long before the supplies were furnished. If
the law was passed in one year for the next, there would be no
hesitation to make the advance immediately after the passing of
the law, and before the year to which the appropriation was
applicable had commenced. So also sums would be furnished to
the Department of War, in anticipation of the monthly pay of
the officers and soldiers, and advances on account of pay, in par-
ticular circumstances, and for good reasons, would be actually
made by that department to the officers and soldiers. And so
likewise advances have been made for the use of the President
and the members of both houses of Congress, in anticipation of
their respective compensations.

It will without difficulty be comprehended, that this practice
of the Treasury has in some cases been essential to the due
course of the public service.

Every good judge will be sensible that from the insufficiency
of individual capitals to such large advances, as the supplies
of an army require, it was indispensable to the obtaining of
them, that anticipations from the Treasury would enable the
Contractors to do, what otherwise they would have been un-
able to do ; and that these anticipations must also have had the
effect of procuring the supplies on cheaper terms to the United
States.

JEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 531

When is is answered to us, that the army has operated for
several years past at several hundred miles distance from the
seat of government ; and a considerable part of the year, from the
rudeness of the country, and obstructions of the waters, it is
impracticable to transmit moneys to the scenes of payment, —
it will be perceived that without advances from the Treasury
in anticipation of the pay, not only a compliance with the en-
gagement of the government would have been impossible ;
but the troops must have been always left most unseasonably
in arrear. — In June, 1794, Congress passed a law, declaring that
the army should in future be paid in such a manner as that the
arrears should not exceed two months. Compliance with this
regulation renders anticipations a matter of physical necessity,
yet that law gave no special authority for the purpose.

A particular case, by way of example, in which, different
from general rules, advances or anticipations in the war depart-
ment are necessary, respects the recruiting service. The of-
ficers, who are for a long time distant from their corps, re-
quire the accommodation of an advance of pay to be able to
discharge their duty. Towards the possibility of enlisting men,
it is indispensable they should carry with them the bounty
money ; another, upon conjecture of what may be done, and
with the possibility that from not being able to obtain the men
the ultimate expenditure may not take place. This instance
will suggest to reflection an infinite number of cases in the
course of service in which a disbursement from the Treasury
must precede the execution of the object, and may exceed the
sum finally requisite for it.

These cases indicate the expediency and even necessity of the
construction which has regulated the practice of the Treasury.
And it might be shown, if necessary, that it is analogous to the
practice under the other government of the United States ; and
under other goverments ; and this too when the theory of expend-
iture equally is, as expressed in our Constitution, that no money
shall be expended, but in consequence of an appropriation by law.

It remains to see whether this rule of conduct, so indispensa-
ble in the practice of the department, be permitted by a fair
interpretation of the Constitution and the laws.

532 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 38.

The general injunction of the Constitution (article i., § ix.)is,
that " no money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in conse-
quence of appropriations made by law."

That clause appears to me to be exactly equivalent to this
other clause — "No money shall be drawn from the Treasury,
but for which there is an appropriation made by law;" in other
words, before money can legally issue from the Treasury for any
purpose, there must be a law authorizing an expenditure, and
designating the object, and the fund. Then such a law is passed.
This being done, the disbursement maybe made consistently with
the Constitution, either by way of advance, or anticipation, or by
way of payment. It may precede or follow the service, supply, or
other object of expenditure. Either will equally satisfy the words
" in consequence of," which are not words of strict import, but may
be taken in several senses — in one sense, that is "in consequence"
of a thing which being followed upon it, follows it in order of
time. A disbursement must be either an advance, ox anticipation,
or a payment. 'Tis not presumable, that the Constitution meant to
distinguish between these two modes of disbursement. It must
have intended to leave this matter wholly to convenience.

The design of the Constitution in this provision was, as I
conceive, to secure these important ends, — that the purpose, the
limit, and the fund of every expenditure should be ascertained
by a previous law. The public security is complete in this
particular, if no money can be expended, but for an object, to an
extent, and out of a fund, which the laws have prescribed.

Even in cases which affect only individual interests, if the
terms of a law will bear several meanings, that is to be preferred,
which will best accord with convenience. In cases that concern
the public, this rule is applicable with still greater latitude. Pub-
lic convenience is to be promoted; public inconveniences to be
avoided. The business of administration requires accommodation
to so great a variety of circumstances, that a rigid construction
would in countless instances arrest the wheels of government.
It has been shown that the construction that has been adopted at
the Treasury is in many cases essential in practice. This inclines
the scale in favor of it, — the words " in consequence of, " admit-
ting of various significations.

Mt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 533

The practice of the legislature as to appropriation laws favors
this construction.

These laws are generally distinct from those which create the
cause of expenditure. Thus the act which declares, that the
President shall be allowed twenty-five thousand dollars per an-
num ; that which declares that each Senator and Kepresentative
shall be entitled to so much per day ; that which determines that
each officer and soldier shall have so much per month &c, neither
of these acts is an act of appropriation. The Treasury has not
considered itself authorized to expend a single cent upon the basis
of any such act ; regarding it merely as constituting a claim upon
the government for a certain compensation, bat requiring, prior
to an actual disbursement for such claim, that a law be passed,
authorizing the disbursement out of a specified fund. This is
what is considered as the law by which the appropriation is made,
from which results to the public a double security.

Hence every year a particular act (sometimes more than one)
is passed, appropriating certain sums for the various branches of
the public service, and indicating the funds from which the moneys
are to be drawn. The object, the sum, and the fund, are all that
are to be found in these acts. They are commonly, if not
universally, silent as to any thing further.

This, I regard as constructive of the clause in the Constitution.
The appropriation laws are in execution of that provision, and
fulfil all its purposes, and they are silent as to the distinction
between anticipation and payment; in other words, as to the man-
ner of disbursement.

Hence I conclude, that if there exist a law appropriating a
certain sum for the salary of the President, an advance upon that
sum in anticipation of the service, is as constitutional, as a payment
after the service has been performed. In other words, that the
advance of a quarter's salary at the beginning of a quarter, is as
much warranted by the Constitution, as the payment of it at the
end of a quarter.

It is in this sense that the present Secretary of the Treasury
has affirmed, that " not one dollar has at any time been advanced
for the use of the President, for which there was not an existing

534 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 38.

appropriation." He did not mean to say that no money had been
advanced in anticipation of the service, for the fact is otherwise ;
but nothing is more true than that the sums disbursed were within
the limits of the sums appropriated. If there. was an excess at
the end of one year, there had been a previous appropriation for
a succeeding year, upon which that excess was an advance.

It is objected to this practice, that the death of the party,
between the advance to him and the expiration of an equivalent
term of service, by superseding the object of the advance, would
render it a misexpenditure of so much money ; and therefore a
violation of the Constitution.

I answer, that the same casualty might have the same effect
in other cases, in which it would be against common sense to
suppose that an advance might not be made with legality and
propriety. Suppose, for example, a law was to be passed,
directing a given quantity of powder to be purchased for public
use, and appropriating a definite sum for the purchase ; and sup-
pose intelligence brought to the Secretary of the Treasury, that
the quantity required could be procured for prompt payment at
Boston ? It cannot in such case be doubted, that the sum appro-
priated might legally be advanced to an agent to proceed to
Boston to make the purchases. Yet, that agent might die, and
the money never be applied according to its destination, or the
desired quantity might be procured for a less sum, and a balance
remain in his hands. In either case, this would be money dis-
bursed, which was not applied to the object of the law. In the
last case, there is no final object for the disbursement, because
the balance is a surplus. This proves that the possibility of a
failure, or falling short of the object for which an advance is
made, is not an objection to its legality. Indeed, the conse-
quence is a possible one in every case of an anticipation, whether
to contractors, or to other public agents, for a determinate or an
indeterminate purpose.

The only consequence is, that the sums unapplied must be
accounted for, and refunded. The distinction here again is
between an advance and a payment. More cannot certainly be
finally paid, than is equal to the object of an appropriation,

Mr. 38.] EXPLANATION. 535

though, the sura appropriated exceed the sum necessary. But
more may be advanced, to the full extent of the appropriation,
than may be ultimately exhausted by the object of the expendi-
ture, on the condition, which always attends an advance, of
accounting for the application, and refunding an excess. This is
a direct answer to the question, whether more can be paid than
is necessary to satisfy the object of an appropriation. More
cannot be paid, but more may be advanced on the accountability
of the person to whom it is advanced.

But risk of loss to the public may attend this principle ?
This is true, but it is as true in all the cases of advances to con-
tractors, &c, as in those of advances upon salaries and compensa-
tions. Nor does this point of risk affect the question of legalitv.
It touches merely that of a prudent exercise of discretion. When
large sums are advanced, it is usual to obtain security for their
due application, or for indemnification. This security is greater
or less according to the circumstances of the parties to whom the
advances are made. When small sums are advanced, especially,
if for the purposes quickly fulfilled, and to persons who are them-
selves adequate sureties, no collateral security is demanded. The
head of the department " is responsible to the government, for
observing proper measures, and taking proper precautions." If
he acts so as to incur justly the charge of improvidence or pro-
fusion, he may be dismissed, or punished, according to the nature
of his misconduct.

But the principle which is set up, would (it is said) be pro-
ductive of confusion, distress, and bankruptcy at the Treasury,
since the appropriation for the support of government is made
payable out of the accruing duties of each year ; and an established
right in the officers of government to claim their compensations,
which amount to several hundred thousand dollars per annum,
either on the first day of the year, or on the first day of a quarter,
before the services were rendered, would create a demand at a
time when there might not, and possibly would not, be a single
shilling in the Treasury, arising out of that appropriation, to
satisfy it. These ideas with regard to the administration of the
fund, are very crude and incorrect, but it would complicate the
subject to go into the development.

536 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

It is not pretended that there is an established right in the
officers to claim their salaries by anticipation, at the beginning of
a year, or at the beginning of a quarter. No such right exists.
The performance of the service must precede the right to demand
payment. But it does not follow, that because there is no right
in the officer to demand payment, it may not be allowable for
the Treasury to advance upon account for good reasons. A
discretion of this sort in the head of the department, can, at least,
involve no embarrassments to the Treasury, nor the formidable
evils indicated ; for the officer who makes the advance, being
himself the judge, whether there is a competent fund, and whe-
ther it can be made with convenience to the Treasury, he will
only make it when he perceives that no evil will ensue.
• Let me recur to the example of advances to contractors for
supplying the army. Suppose that in the terms of contract, cer-
tain advances were stipulated and made, but it turned out never-
theless that the contractor, disappointed in the funds on which he
had relied, could not execute his contract without further ad-
vances. Here there would be no right on his part to demand
such further advances; but there would be a discretion in the
Treasury to make them. This is the example of a discretion to
do what there is not a right to demand. The existence of this
discretion can do no harm, because the head of the Treasury will
judge whether the state of it permits the required advances.
But it is essential, that the discretion should exist, because other-
wise there might be a failure of supplies, which no plan that
could be substituted might be able to avert.

Yet the discretion is in neither case an arbitrary one; it is
one which the head of the department is responsible to exercise'
with a careful eye to the public interest and safety. The abuse
of it, in other words, the careless or wanton exercise of it, would
be a cause of dismission for incapacity, or of punishment for
malconduct.

Thus, advances on account of salaries or to contractors for
procuring public supplies, might be carried so far, and so improvi-
dently managed, as to be highly culpable and justly punishable :
but this is a different question from the violation of Constitution
or law.

jEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 537

In all the cases it is a complete answer to the objection of
embarrassment to the Treasury, that not the will of the parties,
but the judgment of the head of the department is the rule and
measure of the advances which he may make, within the bounds
of the sums appropriated by law.

I consider the law which has been cited with regard to the
pay of the army, as a legislative recognition of the rule of prac-
tice at the Treasury. The legislature could not have been igno-
rant that it was impracticable at certain seasons of the year to
convey the money to the army to fulfil their injunction, without
an advance from the Treasury before the pay became due. They
presuppose a right to make this advance, and enjoin that the
troops shall not be left more than two months in arrear. The
origin of this law enforces the observation. It is known that it
passed in consequence of a representation that the pay of the army
was left too long in arrear, and it was intended to quicken the
measures of payment. No person in either house of the legisla-
ture, I believe, doubted that there was power to precede the ser-
vice by advances so as to render the payment even more punctual
than was enjoined.

Indeed such advances when the army operated at a distance,
were necessary to fulfil the contract with the army. It became
due monthly, and in strictness of contract, was to be made at the
end of each month, — a thing impossible, unless advanced from
the Treasury before it became due. No special authority was
ever given for this purpose to the Treasury, but it appears to
have been left to take its course on the principle that the disburse-
ment might take place as soon as there was an appropriation,
though in anticipation of the term of service.

The foregoing observations vindicate, I trust, the construction
of the Treasury as to the power of making disbursements in
anticipation of services and supplies, if there has been a previous
appropriation by law of the object, and if the advances never
exceed the amount appropriated ; and at the same time evince
that this practice involves no violation of the constitutional pro-
visions with respect to appropriations.

I proceed to examine that clause which respects the pay of

538 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [£h\ 38.

the President. It is in these words: "The President shall, at
stated times, receive for his services a compensation which shall
neither be increased nor diminished during the period for which
he shall have been elected, and he shall not receive within that
period any other emolument from the United States or any of
them."

I understand this clause as equivalent to the following:
" There shall be established by law for the services of the Presi-
dent a periodical compensation, which shall not be increased nor
diminished during the term for which he shall have been elected,
and neither the United States nor any State shall allow him any
emolument in addition to his periodical compensation."

This will, I think, at first sight appear foreign to the ques-
tion of a provisional advance on account of the compensation
periodically established by law for his services.

The manifest object of the provision is to guard the inde-
pendence of the President from the legislative control of the
United States or of any State, by the ability to withhold, lessen,
or increase his compensation.

It requires that the law shall assign him a definite compensa-
tion for a definite time. It prohibits the legislature from in-
creasing or diminishing this compensation during any term of his
election, and it prohibits every State from granting him an addi-
tional emolument. This is all that the clause imports.

It is. therefore satisfied as to the United States, when the
legislature has provided that the President shall be allowed a
certain sum for a certain term of time ; and so long as it refrains
from making an alteration in the provision. All beyond this is
foreign to the subject.

The legislature having done this, an advance by the Treasury
in anticipation of the service cannot be a breach of the provision.
'Tis in no sense an additional allowance by the United States.
'Tis a mere advance or loan upon account of the established pe-
riodical compensation ; will legal ideas, or common parlance,
warrant the giving the denomination of additional compensation,
to the mere anticipation of the term of an established allowance ?
If they will not, 'tis plain such an advance is no breach of this
part of the Constitution.

jEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 539

If the clause is to be understood literally, it leads to an ab-
surdity. The terms are, " The President shall at stated times
receive" &c. ; and again, "he shall not receive within that pe-
riod," &c.

His allowance is at the rate of 25,000 dollars per annum,
6,250 dollars quarter yearly. Suppose at the end of a year an
arrear of 5000 dollars was due to him, which he omits to receive
till some time in the succeeding year, and in the succeeding year
actually receives that balance with his full salary for the last
year. Tis plain, that he would not have received in the whole
more than he was allowed by law, and yet in the stated period of
one year he would have received 30,000 dollars, five thousand
more than his salary for the year. In a literal sense, then, con-
stitutional provision as to actual payment would not have been
complied with ; for within the first stated period he would not
have received the compensation allotted, and within the second of
them he would have received more. In a literal sense it would be
necessary to make the payment at the precise day, to the precise
amount, neither more or less, which as a general rule the indis-
pensable forms of the Treasury render impossible. It follows
that actual receipt or payment are not the criterion — but the ab-
solute definitive allowance by law. An advance beforehand, or
a payment afterwards, are equally consistent with the true spirit
and meaning of this part of the Constitution.

Let us now see if the construction of the Treasury violates
the law which establishes the President's compensation.

The act of the 29th of September, 1789, allows to the Presi-
dent at the rate of 25,000 dollars per annum, to commence from
the time of his entering on the duties of his office, and to be paid
quarterly out of the Treasury cf the United States.

The question is, what is to be understood from these words,
" to be paid quarterly out of the Treasury of the United Slates fn

The conception of the Treasury has been, that these words,
as used in this and in the analogous cases, were meant to define
the time when the right of an individual to the compensation earned
became absolute, not as a command to the Treasury to issue the
money at a precise clay and no other.

540 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

As mentioned above, the indispensable forms of the Treasury,
in compliance with the law establishing the department, and to
secure a due accountability, make it impracticable to pay at the
day ; and if expressions of the kind in question are to be con-
strued literally, and as a positive injunction to the Treasury to
issue the money at the period defined, it will be as much a breach
of the law to pay afterwards as to advance beforehand.

The position that an after payment would be a breach of the
law, will hardly be contended for; and if not, the alternative
seems to be the construction adopted by the Treasury. Such
expressions denote simply, that at certain periods individuals
acquire a perfect right to particular sums of money for their ser-
vices, which it becomes a matter of course to pay ; but they are
not obliged to receive it at the day, nor is the Treasurer re-
strained from paying it afterwards, or from anticipating by way
of loan, if there are adequate reasons for such anticipation.

It is not true, as alleged, that the invariable practice of the
Treasury as to compensations for services differs in principle from
what was done in the case of the President.

Instances to the contrary have been stated. As to what re-
gards the army, there has been sufficient explanation.

But it will be useful to be more particular as to the course
which has been pursued with reference to the two houses of
Congress.

The law that regulates their compensations (passed the 29th
of September, 1789) allows to each member a compensation of
six dollars for every day he shall attend the House to which he
belongs, together with six dollars for every twenty miles of dis-
tance to and from his place of residence ; and directs that the
compensation which shall be due shall be certified by the Presi-
dent of the Senate or Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and shall be paid as public accounts are paid out of the Treasury.

By an arrangement between each House and the Treasuiy
Department, the course actually pursued has been as follows :

Certain gross sums, usually at the commencement of each
session, and from time to time afterwards, have been advanced
from the Treasury at request, to the President of the Senate for

iET. 38.] EXPLANATION. 541

the members of the Senate, to the Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives for the members of that House, on account, and fre-
quently in anticipation of their accruing compensations. The
President of the Senate in the Senate, and the Speaker of the
House of Representatives in that House, disbursed the moneys
to the individuals, and afterwards, upon the close of each session,
settled an account at the Treasury, accompanied with the certifi-
cates required by the law, and the receipts of the members,
which were examined, adjusted, and passed, as other public
accounts.

Whether there were any advances actually made to the mem-
bers, in anticipation of their compensations, was a point never
discussed between the Treasury and the presiding officers of the
two Houses with whom the money was deposited. But I under-
stand that examples of such advances did exist in relation to the
House of Representatives. The fact is however immaterial to
the point in issue ; that must be tested by the times of the advan-
ces from the Treasury ; and it is certain that these were usually
made in anticipation of compensations to grow due ; and it is also
certain that the course was well understood by both Houses, and
is exhibited by the accounts of the Treasurer laid before them in
each session.

If, therefore, the advances for the President were unconstitu-
tional and illegal, those for both Houses of Congress were equally
so ; and if the President be chargeable with a violation of the
Constitution, of the laws, and of his oath of office, on account of
extra advances to his secretaries, whether with or without his
privity, the members of both Houses of Congress, without ex-
ception, have been guilty of the same crimes, in consequence of
the extra advances, with their privity, to the presiding officers
of their respective Houses. A distinction may possibly be at-
tempted to be taken in the two cases from this circumstance, that
the law which allots the compensation of the members of the
two Houses does not use the words " to be paid every day out of
the Treasury," while that which establishes the President's com-
pensation does use the terms " to be paid quarterly out of the
Treasury." But this distinction would be evidently a cavil.

542 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 38.

When a law fixes the term of a compensation, whether per day,
per month, per quarter, or annum, if it says nothing more, it is
implied that it is payable at each epoch out of the Treasury, in
the same sense as if this was expressly said. This observation
applies as well to the monthly pay of the army, as to the daily
pay of Congress.

Having examined the question as it stands upon the Con-
stitution and the laws, I proceed to examine the course of the
fact.

But previous to this, I shall take notice of one point about
which there have been doubts — and which it is not within my
present recollection, whether definitively settled or not by the
accounting officers of the department. It respects the time of
the commencement of the President's compensation. The law
establishing it refers to the time of his entering upon the duties
of his office, but without defining that time.

When in a constitutional and legal sense did the President
enter upon the duties of his office ?

The Constitution enjoins that before he enters upon the
execution of his office he shall take a certain oath which is
prescribed. This oath was not taken till the 30th of April, 1789.
If we date the entrance upon the duties of his office at the
time of taking this oath, it determines the epoch to be the 80th
of April, 1789.

The notice of the arrangement which was made for the
payment of the members of Congress was twofold. It was to
obviate embarrassment to them by facilitating and acceler-
ating the receipt of their compensations, and to avoid an incon-
venient multiplication of adjustments, entries, warrants, and
payments. The theory of the provision admitted of as many
Treasury settlements, entries, warrants, and payments, each day,
as there were members in both Houses.

But there is room for another construction. The 3d of
March, 1789, is the day when the term for which the President,
the Vice-President, and the members of the Congress were first
elected and was deemed to commence. The Constitution de-
clares, that the President shall hold his office for four years;

JEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 543

and it is presumable that the clause respecting his compensation
contemplates its being for the whole term for which he is to
hold his office. Its object may otherwise be evaded.

It is also, I believe, certain, that the President may execute
his office and do valid acts as President without previously tak-
ing the oath prescribed. Though in so doing, if voluntarily, he
would be guilty of a breach of the Constitution, and would be
liable to punishment. The taking the oath is not, therefore,
necessarily, the criterion of entering upon the duties of office.

It is a fact, if I remember right, that the President was at
New-York, the place assigned for the first meeting of the govern-
ment, on the 3d of March, 1789, which might be considered as an
entrance upon the duties of his office : though from the delays
which attended the meeting of Congress, the oath was deferred
till the 30th of April following.

On the strength of these facts, it may be argued, that by force
of the Constitution, dating the commencement of the President's
term of service on the 3d of March, 1789, the law respecting his
compensation ought to be considered as referring to that period,
for a virtual entrance upon the duties of his office.

In stating this construction, I must not be understood to
adopt it. I acknowledge that the other, as most agreeable to the
more familiar sense of the law terms, has appeared to me prefer-
able, though I had reason to believe that an important officer of
the government (I do not mean the President) once thought
otherwise. The result, in point of fact, will vary, as the one or
the other is deemed the true construction.

I return to an examination of the course of the transaction.

Authentic statements which have been published, with some
supplementary ones received from the Treasury upon the occa-
sion, exhibit the following results.

1st. Result. The sums advanced for the use of the President
from the Treasury, have never exceeded the sums previously
appropriated by law: though they have sometimes exceeded,
sometimes fallen short, of the sums actually due for services.
This is thus explained :

An Act of the 29th of September, 1789, appropriated for the
compensation of the President, $25,000.

544 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 38.

The sums to the 8th of April, 1790, and charged to this

appropriation, are $25,000

An Act of the 26th of March, 1790, appropriated for the

same purpose. ....... 25,000

The sums advanced from May 4th, 1790, to the 28th Feb-
ruary, 1791, and charged to this appropriation, . . 25,000

An Act of the 11th February, 1791, appropriated for the

same purpose ....... 25,000

The sums advanced from the 28th February, 1791, to
27 th of December in the same year, and charged to
this appropriation, are ...... 22,150

Excess of appropriation beyond the advances, . . 2,850

An Act of the 23d December, 1791, appropriated for the

same purpose 25,000

The sums advanced from the 3d January, 1792, to the
15th January, 1793, and charged to this appropria-
tion, are 25,000

An Act of the 28th February, 1793, appropriates for the

same purpose ........ 25,000

The sums advanced from the 9th March, 1793, to 27th of
December in the same year, and charged to this appro-
priation, are 25,000

An Act of the 14th of March, 1794, appropriates for the

same purpose 25,000

The sums advanced from the 17th of March, 1794, to the
1st of January, 1795, and charged to the same appro-
priation, are 25,000

An Act of the 2d of January, 1795, appropriated for the

same purpose 25,000

The sums advanced from the 12th of January, 1795, and
prior to the 1st of October in the same year, and
charged to this appropriation, are .... 12,500

12,500

vEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 545

Excess of appropriation beyond advances, on the 1st of

August, 1795, $12,500

Excess of appropriation on the Act of the 11th of Feb-
ruary, 1791, 2,850

Total excess of appropriation beyond advances, to the 1st

of October, 1795, $15,350

The residue of the proposition is illustrated by the quarterly
statement of salary and advances at foot.

2d Eesult. The Treasury has never been in advance for the
President beyond the sums actually accrued, and due to him for
services to the amount of one quarter's salary. The largest
advance at any time is $6,154. A quarter's salary is, $6,250,
Deduct the sums at certain times in arrear from those at other
times in advance, the average of the advances for the whole term
of his service is about

The particulars of this result appear in the statement at foot.
This statement is digested by a quarter of the calendar year,
which is the established course of the Treasury, and a course
essential to the order of its affairs ; that is to say, it is essential
there should be certain fixed periods to which the ordinary stated
disbursements are referred, and in conforming with which the
accounts of the Treasury are kept.

3d Eesult. On the 1st of October, 1795, there was actually
due to the President, for his compensation, over and above all
advances for his use, the sum of $846. This likewise appears
from the statement at foot, and entirely refutes the malevolent
suggestion which has appeared, of an accumulation of advances to
twelve or fifteen thousand dollars.

4th Eesult. The sums advanced for the President prior to
the commencement of the term of his second election, the 3d of
March, 1793, fall short of the sums appropriated for his com-
pensation, $2,850. Thus:

The aggregate of the sums appropriated for four years,
from the 29th of September, 1789, to the 23d of
G 35

546 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

December, 1791, inclusively is ... $100,000

The amount of all the sums advanced prior to the 3d

of March, 1793, is 97,150

Excess of appropriations beyond advances, . . . $2,850

It is nevertheless true, that not only have there been frequent
anticipations of the President's salary, as appears more particu-
larly in the statement at foot, but. counting from the 30th of
April, 1789, as the commencement of his compensation, the sums
advanced for his use prior to the 3d of March, 1793, the expira-
tion of his first term of election, exceed those actually due up
to that period, by $1108 34.

If, on the contrary, the construction were adopted which dates
his compensation on the 4th of March, 1789, there would have
been a balance due to him on the 4th of March, 1795, of 2,850

dollars.

But proceeding on the first supposition, the whole question
still turns upon the legality of the advances. If it was legal to
make him an advance, in anticipation of his salary, within any
period of his election— within one quarter, on account of a suc-
ceeding quarter, it was equally legal to do it within one year, on
account of a succeeding year; and within one term of an election,
on account of a succeeding term. The only inquiry would be, in
either case, will the sum advanced be within the bounds of the
sums before that time appropriated ?— It has been seen that the sums
appropriated for the first four years of service exceeded those ad-
vanced prior to the commencement of the second period of elec-
tion by 2,850 dollars ; besides this, on the 28th of February, 1793,
there was a further appropriation of 25,000 dollars— so that at the
beginning of the second term the total appropriations exceeded
the total disbursements by 27,850 dollars.

Thus has it been shown that the advances for the use of the
President have been governed by a rule of construction which
has obtained in analogous cases, or more truly, which has regu-
lated the general course of disbursements from the Treasury— a
rule which, I trust, has been demonstrated to be consonant with
the Constitution and the laws.

JEt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 547

It is requisite to inquire a little further, whether there has
been any improper use. or rather abuse of the discretion which is
contended for ; for here there is likewise an unquestionable re-
sponsibility. It is seen, that the advances have at no time equalled
one quarter's salary.

I ask, was it unreasonable or unfit, if constitutional and legal,
to afford the President of the United States an accommodation of
this extent ?

I pledge my veracity, that I have always understood, and to
this moment I have good reason to be satisfied, that the expenses
of the President, those of his household and others, incident to
his official situation, have fully equalled, if not on some occasions
exceeded, the allowance made to him by the United States.
Under this conviction especially, how could the head of a depart-
ment hesitate, by so small an accommodation as the advance of
less than a quarter's salary, to enable the President of the United
States to meet his expenses as they accrued, without being oblig-
ed to encroach upon his own private resources, or to resort to
the expedient of borrowing, to defray expenses imposed upon
him by public situation ? I knew that no possible risk could
attend the advance, little considerable as it was. The estate of
the President was answerable in case of death, or other premature
vacancy, for the indemnification of the government.

Reasons of a peculiar kind forbade hesitation. The scale of
expense was such as to render the income even of what is deemed
a large landed property in this country a slender auxiliary —
without an advance from the Treasury, it was not impossible
borrowing might be necessary. Was it just to compel the Presi-
dent to resort to that expedient, for a purpose in fact public, at
his private expense ? Was it for the dignity of the nation that
he should have been exposed to a necessity, an embarrassment
of this sort ?

My judgment and feelings answered both these questions in
the negative. I. entertained no doubt of the constitutionality and
legality of the advance, and I thought the making of it due to the
situation — due to propriety— due to every public consideration
connected with the subject. I can never regret it.

548 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. E8.

How far the President was privy to the course of advances, I
cannot say ; but it is certain they have been all made to his pri-
vate secretaries upon a general arrangement, and not by special
directions from him. And I think it proper to add, that very
early in the day, and probably before any was made, on an ap-
plication to Mr. Lear fur a sum which would constitute an ad-
vance, he qualified it by this observation ; " If in your opinion
it can be done with legality and perfect propriety." I answered
that I had no doubt of either. I shall not attempt to assume
any greater responsibility in this transaction than belongs to me,
but I have been accustomed to think that the responsibility for
the due and regular disbursement of moneys from the Treasury
lies exclusively with the officers of the department, and that, ex-
cept in a very palpable and glaring case, the charge of blamable
participation could not fall on any other person.

As between the officers of the Treasury, I take the responsi-
bility to stand thus. The Secretary and Comptroller, in granting
warrants upon the Treasury, are both answerable for their legal-
ity. In this respect, the Comptroller is a check upon the Secre-
tary. "With regard to the expediency of an advance, in my
opinion, the right of judging is exclusively with the head of the
department. The Comptroller has no voice in this matter. So
far, therefore, as concerns legality in the issues of money, while
I was in the department, the Comptroller must answer with me ;
so far as a question of expedienc}^, or the due exercise of discre-
tion may be involved, I am solely answerable. And uniformly
was the matter so understood between successive comptrollers
and myself. Also it is essential to the due administration of the
department, that it should have been so understood.

I have stated my reasons for considering the advances made,
for the use of the President, constitutional, legal, and proper,
But I pretend not to infallibility ; 'tis possible, I may have erred,
but to convert error into guilt, it must be supposed to have been
wilful. To suppose it wilful, it is necessary to trace it to some
interested or sinister motive. If any appear, let it be pointed
out. It is not common for men to commit crimes without some
adequate inducement.

Mt. 38.] EXPLANATION. 549

What criminal inducement would have probably influenced
the rule of construction as to advances which has been stated to
have been adopted and acted upon at the Treasury ? What crimi-
nal inducement particularly could have led to the application of
this rule to the President's compensation, in so restricted a form
as never to equal one quarter's salary ? Who in his senses will
believe that the President would consciously have hazarded the
imputation of violating the Constitution, the laws, and his oath
of office, by imposing on the officers of the Treasury the neces*
sity of making him so paltry an advance, falsely and ridicu-
lously called a donation ? Who will believe that those officers
would have consented to expose themselves to the same imputa-
tion, by compliance, when they knew that the evidence of their
guilt must regularly be communicated in each succeeding ses-
sion, to both Houses of Congress, and to the public at large? To
believe either, is to believe all the parties concerned foolish, as
well as profligate in the extreme, destitute equally of intellect as
of principle.

To an observation made by Mr. Wolcott in the communica-
tion from the Treasury, it has been answered, that there was no
merit in the disclosure, because the number of agents and the
forms of the Treasury rendered it unavoidable. The fact is so —
but the force of the observation turns upon the egregious folly
of intentionally committing the crimes imputed; when it was
certain, beforehand, that the means of detection must be furnish-
ed, and without delay, by the Treasury itself.

It is certain, that there never has been the least attempt at
mystery or concealment. The documents reported by the Trea-
sury to both Houses of Congress, carried in their face the promi-
nent evidence of what was done. Frequent and indiscriminaU
personal suggestions regarded the principle of action. It is evi-
dent that it must have been understood and acquiesced in by all
the members of the two Houses of Congress.

Hard would be the condition of public officers if even a mis-
construction of constitutional and legal provisions, attended with
no symptom of criminal motive, carrying the proof of innocence
in the openness and publicity of conduct, could justly expose

550 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 38.

them to the odious charges which on this occasion are preferred.
Harder still would be their condition if, in the management
of the great and complicated business of a nation, the fact of
misconstruction, which is to constitute their guilt, is to be de-
cided by the narrow and rigid rules of a criticism no less pedantic
than malevolent. Pre-eminently hard in such circumstances was
the lot of the man who, called to the head of the most arduous
department in the public administration in a new government,
without the guidance of antecedent practice and precedent, had to
trace out his own path, and to adjust for himself the import and
bearings of delicate and important provisions in the Constitution
and in the laws.

Reposing myself on a consciousness which, in no possible
situation, can fail to prove an invulnerable shield to my tran-
quillity, I leave to a candid public to pronounce the sentence
which is due to an attempt, on such a foundation, to erect against
the President of the United States, my successor in office, and
myself, the heinous charges of violation of the Constitution, vio-
lation of the laws, exaction of arbitrary will on the one side, ab-
ject submission on the other, misapplication of the public money,
and, to complete the newspaper group, intentional perjury.

A. Hamilton.

WASHINGTON'S SPEECH TO CONGRESS.

Draft by Hamilton.

Dec. 8, 1795.
I trust I do not deceive myself while I indulge the persua-
sion, that I have never met you at any period, when more than
at the present the situation of our public affairs has afforded just
cause for mutual congratulation, and for inviting you to join with
me in profound gratitude to the Author of all Good for the
numerous and distinguished signal blessings we enjoy.

Mr. 38.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. 551

The termination of the long, expensive, and distressing war
in which we have been engaged with certain Indians northwest
of the Ohio, is placed in the option of the United States by a
treaty which the commander of our army has provisionally con-
cluded with twelve of the most powerful of the hostile tribes in
that region. In the adjustment of these terms, the satisfaction
of the Indians was deemed an object worthy no less of the policy
than of the liberality of the United States, as the necessary basis
of permanent tranquillity. This object, it is believed, has been
fully attained. The articles agreed upon will be immediately
laid before the Senate for their advice and consent.

The Creek and Cherokee Indians, who alone of the Southern
tribes had annoyed our frontier, have lately confirmed their pre-
existing treaties with us, and have given unequivocal evidence
of a sincere disposition to carry them into effect by the surrender
of the prisoners and property they had taken. But we have to
lament that the fair prospect in this quarter has been momenta-
rily clouded by wanton murders, which some citizens of Georgia
have perpetrated on hunting parties of the Creeks, which have
again involved that frontier in disquietude and danger, or which
will be productive of further expense, and is likely to occasion
more effusion of blood. Measures are in train to obviate or
mitigate the consequences, and with the reliance of being able at
least to prevent general hostility.

A letter from the Emperor of Morocco announces to me the
renewal of our treaty, and consequently the restoration of peace,
with that power. But the instrument for this purpose, which
was to pass through the hands of our minister resident at Lisbon,
who was temporarily absent on business of importance, is not
yet received. It is with peculiar satisfaction I can add to this
intelligence, that an agent, deputed on our part to Algiers, com-
municates that the preliminaries of a treaty with the regency
of that country had been settled, and that he had no doubt of
completing the business of his mission, comprehending the re-
demption of our unfortunate fellow-citizens from a grievous
captivity.

The last advices from our envoy to the court of Madrid give,

552 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 38.

moreover, the pleasing information that he had received positive
assurances of a speedy and satisfactory conclusion of his negotia-
tion. While the event, depending on unadjusted particulars, can-
not be regarded as ascertained, it is agreeable to cherish the
expectation of an issue, which, securing amicably very essential
interests of the United States, will, at the same time, establish
the foundation of durable harmony with a power whose friend-
ship we have so uniformly and so sincerely endeavored to
cultivate.

Though not before officially disclosed to the House of Repre-
sentatives, you are all apprised that a treaty of amity, com-
merce, and navigation has been negotiated with Great Britain,
and that the Senate, by the voice of two-thirds, have advised and
consented to its ratification, upon a condition which excepts part
of one article. Agreeably to this advice and consent, and to the
best judgment I was able to form of the public interest, after
full and mature deliberation, I have added my sanction. The
result on the part of His Britannic Majesty is unknown. When
received, the subject will, without delay, be placed before Con-
gress.

This interesting summary of affairs, with regard to the foreign
powers between whom and the United States controversies have
subsisted, and with regard also to those of our Indian neighbors,
with whom we have been in a state of enmity or misunderstand-
ing, opens a wide field for consoling and gratifying reflections.
If, by prudence and moderation on every side, the extinguish-
ment of all the causes of external discord, which have heretofore
menaced our tranquillity, on terms consistent with our national
rights and honor, shall be the happy result, how firm and how
precious a foundation will have been laid for establishing, accele-
rating, and maturing the prosperity of our country !

Contemplating the situation of the United States in their
internal as well as external relations, Ave find equal cause for
contentment and satisfaction, while the greater part of the nations
of Europe, with their American dependencies, have been, and
several of them continue to be, involved in a contest unusually
bloody, exhausting, and calamitous ; in which the ordinary evils

^Et. 38.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. 553

of foreign war are aggravated by domestic convulsion, riot, and
insurrection ; in which many of the arts most useful to society are
exposed to decay or exile; and in which scarcity of subsistence
embitters other sufferings, while even the anticipations of the
blessings of peace and repose are alloyed by the sense of heavv
and accumulating burthens, which press upon all the departments
of industry, and threaten to clog the future springs of govern-
ment ; — our favored country, happy in a striking contrast, enjoys
universal peace — a peace the more satisfactory because preserved
at the expense of no duty. Faithful to ourselves we have not
been unmindful of any obligation to others. Our agriculture, our
commerce, our manufactures, prosper beyond former examples
(the occ^ional depredations upon our trade, however detrimental
to individuals, being greatly overbalanced by the aggregate
benefits derived to it from a neutral position). Our population
advances with a celerity which exceeds the most sanguine calcu-
lations, augmenting fast our strength and resources, and guaran-
teeing more and more our national security. Every part of
the Union gives indications of rapid and various improve-
ment. "With burthens so light as scarcely to be perceived, with
resources more than adequate to our present exigencies, with a
mild Constitution and wholesome laws, is it too much to say that
our country affords a spectacle of national happiness never sur-
passed, if ever before equalled in the annals of human affairs?

Placed by Providence in a situation so auspicious, motives
the most sacred and commanding admonish us, with sincere grati-
tude to Heaven and pure love of our country, to unite our efforts
to preserve, prolong, and improve the immense advantages of
our condition. To co-operate with you in this most interesting-
work is the dearest wish of my heart.

Fellow-citizens: — Amongst the objects which will claim
your attention in the course of the session, a review of our mili-
tary establishment will not be the least important. It is called for
by the events which have changed, and are likely still further to
change, the relative situation of our interior frontier. In this
review, you will no doubt allow due weight to the consideration,
that the questions between us and certain foreign powers are

554 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [/Et. 38.

not yet finally adjusted, that the war in Europe is not yet ter-
minated, and that the evacuation of our Western posts, when it
shall happen, will demand a provision for garrisoning and
securing them. You will consider this subject with a compre-
hensiveness equal to the extent and variety of its relations.
The Secretary at War will be directed to lay before Congress the
present state of the

With the review of our army is naturally connected that of
our militia establishment. It will merit inquiry what imper-
fections, in the existing plan, experience may have unfolded ;
what improvements will comport with the progress of public
opinion. The subject is of so much magnitude, in my estimation,
as to beget a constant solicitude that the consideration §f it will
be renewed, till the greatest attainable degree of perfection is
accomplished. Time, while it may furnish others, is wearing
away some advantages for forwarding the object. None better
deserves the persevering attention of our public councils.

In contemplating the actual condition of our Western bor-
ders, the pleasure it is calculated to afford ought not to cause us
to lose sight of a truth, to the confirmation of which every day's
experience contributes, viz. : That the provisions heretofore
made are inadequate to protect the Indians from the violences
of the irregular and lawless part of the frontier inhabitants ;
and that, without some more effectual plan for restraining the
murders of those people, by bringing the murderers to condign
punishment, all the exertions of the government to prevent or
repress the outrages of the Indians, and to preserve peace with
them, must prove fruitless — all our present agreeable prospects
fugitive and illusory. The frequent destruction of innocent
women and children, chiefly the victims of retaliation, must
continue to shock humanite, while an expense truly enormous
will drain the treasure of the Union.

To enforce the observance of justice upon the Indians, it is
indispensable there should be competent means of rendering
justice to them. If to these means could be added a provision
to facilitate the supply of the articles they want on reasonable
terms (a measure the mention of which I the more readily re-

JJ*. 3*.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. 555

peat, as in all the conferences with them they urge it with so-
licitude), I should not hesitate to entertain a strong hope of a
permanent good understanding with them. It is agreeable to
add that even the probability of their civilization, by per-
severance in a proper plan, has not been diminished by the
experiments thus far made.

Gentlemen of the House of Representatives: — The state of the
revenue in its several relations, with the sums which have been
borrowed and reimbursed, pursuant to different acts of Congress,
will be submitted by the proper officer — together with an esti-
mate of the appropriations necessary to be made for the current
service of the ensuing year. Eeports from the late and present
director of the Mint (which I shall also cause to be laid before
you), will show the situation and progress of that institution,
and the necessity of some further legislative provisions for car-
rying the business of it more completely into execution, and for
checking abuses which appear to be arising in particular quar-
ters.

Whether measures may not be advisable to reinforce the
provision for the redemption of the public debt, will not fail, I
am sure, to engage your attention. In this examination, the
question will naturally occur, whether the present be not a fa-
vorable juncture for the disposal of the vacant lands of the
United States, northwest of the Ohio. Congress have demon-
strated the sense to be, and it were superfluous to repeat more,
that whatever will tend to accelerate the honorable extinguish-
ment of our public debt, will accord as much with the true in-
terest of our country as with the general sense of our consti-
tuents.

Gentlemen : — The progress in providing materials for the
frigates, and in building them, and the state of the fortifications
of our harbors, the measures which have been pursued !'<>r
obtaining proper sites for arsenals, and for furnishing our mag-
azines with military stores; and the steps which have been
taken in execution of the law for opening a trade with the In-
dians, will also be presented for the information of Congr.

556 HAMILTON'S WORKS. r^T. 39.

MESSAGE for WASHINGTON TO CONGRESS, IN
REPLY TO A CALL FOR PAPERS RELATING TO
THE TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN.

Draft by Hamilton.

March 29th, 1796.

I have received your resolution of the inst., and have con-
sidered it with the attention always due to a request of the House
of Representatives. I feel a consciousness (not contradicted I
trust by any part of my conduct) of a sincere disposition to
respect the rights, privileges, and authorities of Congress col-
lectively, and in its separate branches — to pay just deference to
their opinions and wishes — to avoid intrusion on their province
— to communicate freely information pertinent to the subjects of
their deliberation. But this disposition, keeping steadily in
view the public good, must likewise be limited and directed by
the duty incumbent upon us all, of preserving inviolate the
constitutional boundary between the several departments of the
government; a duty enjoined by the very nature of a Constitu-
tion, which defines the powers delegated, and distributes them
among different depositories ; enforced by the solemn sanction
of an oath ; and only to be fulfilled by a regard no less scrupu-
lous for the rights of the Executive, than for those of every other
department.

When I communicated to the House of Representatives the
treaty lately made with Great Britain, I did not transmit the
papers respecting its negotiation, for reasons which appeared to
me decisive.

It is contrary to the general practice of governments, to pro-
mulge the intermediate transactions of a foreign negotiation,
without weighty and special reasons. The motives for great
delicacy and reserve on this point are powerful. There may be
situations of a country, in which particular occurrences of a nego-
tiation, though conducted with the best views to its interest, and

iET. 39.] MESSAGE. 557

even to a satisfactory issue, if immediately disclosed, might tend
to embarrassment and mischief in the interior affairs of that
country. Confidential discussions and overtures arc inseparable
from the nature of certain negotiations, and frequently occur in
others. Essays are occasionally made by one party to discover
the views of another in reference to collateral objects; motives
are sometimes assigned for what is yielded by one party to
another ; which, if made public, might kindle the resentment or
jealousy of other powers, or might raise in them pretensions not
expedient to be gratified. Hence it is a rule of mutual con-
venience and security among nations, that neither shall, without
adequate cause and proper reserves, promulge the details of a
negotiation between them ; otherwise, one party might be injured
by the disclosures of the other, and sometimes without being
aware of the injury likely to be done.

Consequently, the general neglect of this rule in the practice
of a government, would naturally tend to destroy that confidence
in its prudence and delicacy — that freedom of communication
with it, which are so important in the intercourses between nation
and nation, towards the accommodation of mutual differences
and the adjustment of mutual interests.

Neither would it be likely to promote the advantage of a

nation, that the agents of a foreign government with which it

was at any time in treaty, should act under the apprehension

that every expression, every step of theirs, would presently be

exposed, by the promulgation of the other party, to the criticism

of their political adversaries at home. The disposition to a

liberal, and, perhaps, for that very reason, a wise policy in them,

might be checked by the reflection, that it might afterwards

appear from the disclosures on the other side, that they had not

made as good bargains as they might have made. And while

they might be stimulated by this to extraordinary effort and

perseverance, maxims of greater secrecy and reserve id their

cabinet would leave their competitors in the negotiation without

the same motive to exertion. These having nothing to fear from

the indiscretion of the opposite government, would only have to

manage with caution their communications to their own. The

558 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 39.

consequence of such a state of things would naturally be an in-
crease of obstacles to the favorable close of a negotiation, and the
probability of worse bargains for the nation in the habit of giving
indiscreet publicity to its proceedings.

The agents of such a nation themselves would have strong
inducements to extreme reserve in their communications with
their own government, lest parts of their conduct might subject
them in other quarters to unfriendly and uncandid constructions,
which might so narrow the information they gave, as scarcely to
afford sufficient light, with regard either to the fitness of their
own course of proceeding, or the true state and prospects of the
negotiation with which they were charged.

And thus, in different ways, the channels of information to
a government might be materially obstructed by the impolitic
practice of too free disclosure, in regard to its foreign negotia-
tions.

Moreover, it is not uncommon for the instructions to nego-
tiating agents, especially where differences are to be settled, to
contain observations on the views and motives of the other party,
which after an amicable termination of the business it would be
contrary to decorum, unfriendly and offensive to make public.
Such instructions also frequently manifest views which, if dis-
closed, might renew sources of jealousy and ill-will which a
treaty had extinguished, might exhibit eventual plans of proceed-
ing which had better remain unknown for future emergencies,
and might even furnish occasion for suspicion, and pretext for
discontent, to other powers. And in general, where more had
been obtained by a treaty than the ultimata prescribed to the
negotiator, it would be inexpedient to publish those ultimata;
since, among other ill effects, the publication of them might pre-
judice the interest of the country in future negotiations with the
same or with different powers.

These reasons explain the grounds of a prevailing rule of con-
duct among prudent governments, namely, not to promulge
without weighty cause, nor without due reserves, the particulars
of a foreign negotiation. It so happens indeed that many of
them have no immediate application to the case of the present

jEt. 39.] MESSAGE. 55U

treaty. And it would be unadvisable to discriminate here be-
tween such as may and such as may not so apply. But it would
be very extraordinary, situated as the United States were in re-
lation to Great Britain at the commencement of the negotiation,
if some of them did not operate against a full disclosure of the
papers in which it is recorded.

Connected with these general reasons against the transmission
of the papers with the treaty, it was proper to consider if there
were any special reasons, which recommended in the particular
case a departure from the rule, and especially whether there was
any purpose to which the House of Representatives is constitu-
tionally competent which might be elucidated by those papers.

This involved a consideration of the nature of the constitu-
tional agency of that house, in regard to treaties.

The Constitution of the United States empowers the Pesident,
with the advice and consent of the Senate, two thirds concurring,
to make treaties. It nowhere professes to authorize the House
of Representatives or any other branch of the government to
partake with the President and Senate in the making of treaties.
The whole power of making treaties is therefore by the Consti-
tution vested in the President and Senate.

To make a treaty, as applied to nations, is to conclude a con-
tract between them obligatory on their faith : but that cannot be
an obligatory contract, to the validity and obligation of which
the assent of another power in the state is constitutionally neces-
sary.

Again : the Constitution declares that a treaty made under
the authority of the United States shall be a " supreme law of
the land,"— let it be said " a law." A law is an obligatory rule
of action prescribed by the competent authority, but that cannot
be an obligatory rule of action or a law, to the validity and obli-
gation of which the assent of another power in the state is con-
stitutionally necessary.

Hence a discretionary righ^ in the House of Representatives
to assent or not to a treaty, or, what is equivalent, to execute it
or not, would negative these two important provisions of our
Constitution— 1st, that the President and Senate shall have

5(d0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

power to make treaties ; 2dl y, that a treaty made by them shall
be a law: and in the room of them would establish this provi-
sion, " that the power of making treaties resides in the President,
Senate, and House of Representatives." For, whatever coloring
may be given, a right of discretionary assent to a contract is a
right to participate in the making of it.

Is there any thing in the Constitution which by necessary
implication changes the force of the express terms that regulate
the deposit of the power to make treaties ?

If there is, it must be found in those clauses which regulate
the deposit of the legislative power. Here two questions arise :

1st. Can the power of treaty reach and embrace objects upon
which the legislative power is authorized to act, as the regulation
of commerce, the defining of piracy, &c. ; or are these objects
virtually excepted out of the operation of that power?

2dly. If it can reach and embrace those objects, is there any
principle which as to them gives to Congress, or more properly,
the House of Representatives, a discretionary right of assent or
dissent ?

The affirmative of the first question is supported by these
considerations :

1. The words which establish the power of treaty are mani-
festly broad enough to comprehend all treaties.

2. It is a reasonable presumption that they were meant to
extend to all treaties usual among nations, and so to be commen-
surate with the variety of exigencies and objects of intercourse
which occur between nation and nation ; in other words, that they
were meant to enable the organ of the power to manage with
efficacy the external affairs of the country in all cases in which
they must depend upon compact with another nation.

3. The treaties usual among nations are principally those of
peace, alliance, and commerce. It is the office of treaties of peace
to establish the cessation of hostilities and the conditions of it, in-
cluding frequently indemnifications, sometimes pecuniary ones.
It is the office of treaties of alliance to establish cases in which
nations shall succor each other in war, stipulating a union of

orces, the furnishing of troops, ships of war, pecuniary and other

Mt. 39.] MESSAGE. 561

aids. It is the office of treaties of commerce to establish rules
and conditions according to which nations shall trade with each
other, regulating as far as they go the external commerce of the
nations in treaty. Whence it is evident that treaties naturally
bear in different ways upon many of the most imporant objects
upon which the legislative power is authorized to act ; as the ap-
propriation of money, the raising of armies, the equipment of
fleets, the declaring of war, the regulation of trade. But,

4. This is no objection to the power of treaty having a ca-
pacity to embrace those objects : (First.) Because that latitude is
essential to the great ends for which the power is instituted:
(Second.) Because, unless the power of treaty can embrace ob-
jects upon which the legislative power may also act, it is essen-
tially nugatory, often inadequate to mere treaties of peace, al-
ways inadequate to treaties of alliance or commerce. (Third.)
Because it is the office of the legislative power to establish sepa-
rate rules of action for the nation of which it is (the organ), its
arm being too short to reach a single case in which a common
obligatory rule of action for two nations is to be established.
(Fourth.) Because, inasmuch as a common rule of action for inde-
pendent nations can only be established by compact, it necessa-
rily is of the office of the power of treaty to effect its establish-
ment. (Fifth.) Because the power of legislation being unable to-
effect what the power of treaty must effect, it is unreasonable to
suppose that the former was intended to exclude the action of
the latter. (Sixth.) Because, on the other hand, there is no in-
congruity in the supposition that the power of treaty in estab-
lishing a joint rule of action with another nation may act upon
the same subject which the legislative power may act upon in
establishing a separate rule of action for one nation. (Seventh.)
Because it is a common case for the different powers of govern-
ment to act upon the same subject within different spheres and
in different modes. Thus the legislative power lays and pro-
vides for the collection of a particular tax, the executive power
collects the tax and brings it into the Treasury. So the treaty
power may stipulate a pecuniary indemnification for an injury,
and the legislative power may execute the stipulation by pro*
G 36

562 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39-

viding and designating the fund out of which the indemnifica-
tion shall be made. As in the first instance the executive power
is auxiliary to the legislative, so in the last the legislative power
is auxiliary to the treaty powers. (Eighth.) Because this doc-
trine leads to no collision of powers, inasmuch as the stipulations
of a treaty may reasonably be considered as restraints upon the
legislative discretion. Those stipulations operate by pledging the
faith of a nation and restricting its will by the force of moral ob-
ligation, and it is a fundamental principle of social right that the
will of a nation as well as that of an individual, may be bound by
the moral obligation of a contract. (Ninth.) Because the organ
of the power of treaty is as truly the organ of the will of a na-
tion as that of its legislative power ; and there is no incongruity
in the supposition that the will of a nation acting through one
organ may be bound by the pledge of its faith through another
organ. From these different views of the subject it results that
the position, that the power of legislation acting in one sphere,
and the power of treaty acting in another sphere, may embrace
in their action the same objects, involves no interference of con-
stitutional powers ; and of course that the latter may reach and
•comprehend objects which the former is authorized to act upon ;
which it is necessary to suppose it does do, since the contrary
supposition would essentially destroy the power of treaty:
whereas the stipulations of treaties being only particular excep-
tions to the discretion of the legislative power, this power will
always still have a wide field of action beyond and out of the
exceptions.

The latitude of the power of treaty granted by analogous
terms in the articles of our late confederation, as practised upon
for years in treaties with several foreign powers and acquiesced
in by the government and citizens of these States, is an unequi-
vocal comment upon the meaning of the provision of our pre-
sent Constitution, and a conclusive evidence of the sense in
which it was understood by those who planned and by those
who adopted that Constitution — supporting fully the construc-
tion of the power here advocated. That latitude could derive
no aid from the circumstance of all the powers of the con-

^Et. 39.] MESSAGE. 563

federation being vested in one body, for that body had very lit-
tle legislative power, and none in several important particulars
which were actually embraced by our treaties. The examples of
practice under our present government, without the least ques-
tion of their propriety, is a further corroboration of the intended
and accepted sense of the constitutional instrument, agreeing
with the foregoing construction.

The negative of the second question above stated is supported
by these considerations,

1st. A discretionary right of assent in the House of Represen-
tatives (as before shown) would contradict the two important
provisions of the Constitution, that the President with the
Senate shall have power to make treaties, — that the treaties so
made shall be laws.

2dly. It supposes the House of Eepresentatives at liberty to
contravene the faith of the nation engaged in a treaty made by
the declared constitutional agents of the nation for that purpose,
and thus implies the contradiction that a nation may rightfully
pledge its faith through one organ, and without any change of
circumstances to dissolve the obligation, may revoke the pledge
through another organ.

3dly. The obvious import of the terms which grant the power
of treaty, can only be controlled, if at all, by some manifest
necessary implication in favor of the discretionary right which
has been mentioned. But it has been seen that no such implica-
tion can be derived from the mere grant of certain powers to the
House of Representatives in common with the other branch of the
legislative body. As there is a rational construction which ren-
ders the due exercise of these powers in the cases to which they
are competent, compatible with the operation of the power of
treaty, in all the necessary latitude, excluding the discretionary
co-operation of the House of Representatives, that construction is
to be preferred. It is far more natural to consider the exercise
of those powers as liable to the exceptions which the power of
treaty granted to the President and Senate may make, than to
infer from them a right in the House to share in this power in
opposition to the terms of the grant, and without a single ex-

564 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

pression in the Constitution to designate the right. It is im-
probable that the Constitution intended to vest in the House of
Representatives so extensive a control over treaties without a
single phrase that would look directly to the object. It is the
more improbable, because the Senate being in the first instance a
party to treaties, the right of discretionary co-operation in the
House of Representatives, in virtue of its legislative character,
would, in fact, terminate in itself, though but a part of the legis-
lative body, — which suggests this question, Can the House of Re-
presentatives have any right in virtue of its general legislative
character, which is not effectually participated by the Senate ?

4thly. The claim of such a right on the ground that the legis-
lative power is essentially deliberative, that whenever its agency
is in question it has a right to act or not, and that, consequently,
when provision by law is requisite to execute a treaty there is
liberty to refuse it, cannot be acceded to without admitting in
the legislative body, and in each part of it, an absolute discretion
uncontrollable by any constitutional injunctions, limits, or re-
strictions, thereby overturning the fabric of a fixed and definite
Constitution, and erecting upon its ruins a legislative omnipo-
tence.

It would, for example, give to Congress a discretion to allow
or not a fixed compensation to the Judges, though the Constitu-
tion expressly enjoins " that they shall at stated times receive for
their services a compensation, which shall not be diminished
during their continuance in office;" and would sacrifice this
solemn and peremptory command of the Constitution to the
opinion of Congress respecting a more essential application of the
public money. Can this be true ? Can any thing but absolute
inability excuse a compliance with this injunction, and does not
the Constitution presuppose a moral impossibility of such ina-
bility ? If there be a legal discretion in any case to contravene
this injunction, what limit is there to the legal discretion of the
legislative body ? What injunction, what restriction of the Con-
stitution may they not supersede ? If the Constitution cannot
direct the exercise of their authority in particular cases, how can
it limit it in any ? What becomes of the appeal to our courts on

/Et. 39.] MESSAGE. 565

the constitutionality of a legislative act? What becomes of the
power they solemnly assert to test such an act by the constitu-
tional commission, and to pronounce it operative or null according
to its conformity with or repugnance to that commission ? "What,
in fine, becomes of the Constitution itself?

This inquiry suggests a truth fundamental to the principles
of our government, and all important to the security of the peo-
ple of the United States, namely, that the legislative body is not
deliberative in all cases — that it is only deliberative and discre-
tionary where the Constitution and the laws lay it under no
command nor prohibition — that where they command, it can
only execute ; where they prohibit, it cannot act. If the thing be
commanded and the means of execution are undefined, it may
then deliberate on the choice of the means, but it is obliged to
devise some means. It is true that the Constitution provides no
method of compelling the legislative body to act, but it is not the
less under a constitutional, legal, and moral obligation to act,
where action is prescribed, and in conformity with the rule of
action prescribed.

In asserting the authority of laws as well as of the Constitu-
tion to direct and restrain the legislative action, the position is to
be understood with this difference. The Constitution obliges
always — the laws till they are annulled or repealed by the proper
authority ; but till then they oblige the legislative body as well
as individuals, and all their antecedent effects are valid and
binding. And the abrogation or repeal of a law must be by an
act of the regular organ of the national will for that purpose in
the forms of the Constitution — not by a mere refusal to give
effect to its injunctions and requisitions ; especially by a part of
the legislative body. A legal discretion to refuse the execution
of a pre-existing law, is virtually a power to repeal it, and to
attribute this discretion to a part of the legislative body is to
attribute to it the whole instead of a part of the legislative power
in the given case. When towards the execution of an antecedent
law, further legislative provision is necessary, the past effects of
the law are obligatory, and a positive repeal or suspension by
the whole legislature is requisite to arrest its future operation.

566 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

The idea is essential in a government like ours that there is no
body of men or individual above the law ; not even the legisla-
tive body till by an act of legislation they have annulled the

law.

The argument from the principle of an essentially delibera-
tive faculty in the legislative body is the less admissible, because
it would result from it, that the nation could never be conclu-
sively bound by a treaty. Why should the inherent discretion
of a future legislature be more bound by the assent of a preceding
one, than this was by a pledge of the public faith through the
President and Senate? Even the Senate itself, after having
assented to a treaty by two-thirds in one capacity, might in
another, by a bare majority, refuse to execute ; a contradiction
not to be vindicated by any just theory.

Hence it follows that the House of ^Representatives have no
moral power to refuse the execution of a treaty, which is not
contrary to the Constitution, because it pledges the public faith ;
and have no legal power to refuse its execution because it is a
law, until at least it ceases to be a law by a regular act of revoca-
tion of the competent authority.

The ingredient peculiar to our Constitution in that provision
which declares that treaties are laws, is of no inconsiderable
weight in the question. It is one thing, whether a treaty pledg-
ing the faith of the nation shall by force of moral duty oblige
the legislative will to carry it into effect ; another, whether it
shall be of itself a law. The last is the case in our Constitution,
which by a fundamental decree gives the character of a law to
every treaty made under the authority which it designates.
Treaties, therefore, in our government, of themselves and with-
out any additional sanction, have full legal perfection as laws.

Questions may be made as to the cases in which, and the
authority by which, under our Constitution, a treaty consonant
with it may be pronounced to have lost or may be divested of its
obligatory force; a point not necessary now to be discussed-
But admitting that authority to reside in the legislative body,
still its exercise must be by an act of Congress, declaring the
fact and the consequence, or declaring war against the power

JEt. 39.] MESSAGE. 567

with whom the treaty is. There is perceived to be nothing in
our Constitution, no rule of constitutional law to authorize one
branch alone, or the House of Representatives in particular,
to pronounce the existence of such cases, or from the beginning
to refuse compliance with such a treaty, without any new events
to change the original obligation. A right in the whole legisla-
tive body (in our Constitution the two Houses of Congress) by
a collective act to pronounce the non-operation or nullity of a
treaty, satisfies every claim in favor of the legislative power,
and gives to it all the weight and efficacy which is reconcilable
with the due operation of the treaty power.

How discordant might be the results of a doctrine that the
House of Representatives may at discretion execute or not a
constitutional treaty! What confusion, if our courts of justice
should recognize and enforce as laws treaties, the obligation of
which was denied by the House of Representatives, and that
on a principle of inherent discretion which no decision of the
courts could guide ! We might see our commercial and fiscal
systems disorganized by the breaches made in antecedent laws
by posterior treaties, through the want of some collateral pro-
visions requisite to give due effect to the principle of the new
rule. Can that doctrine be true which may present a treaty
operating as a law upon all the citizens of a country, and yet
legally disregarded by a portion of the legislative body?

The sound conclusion appears to be, that when a treaty
contains nothing but what the Constitution permits, it is con-
clusive upon all, and all are bound to give it effect. When it
contains more than the Constitution permits, it is void either
in the whole, or as to so much as it improperly contains.
While I can discover no sufficient foundation in the Constitution
for the claim of a discretionary right in the House of Represen-
tatives to participate in giving validity to treaties, I am con-
firmed in the contrary inference by the knowledge I have that the
expediency of this participation was Considered by the convention
which planned the constitution, and was by them overruled.

The greatness of the power of treaty under this construction
is no objection to its truth. It is doubtless a great power, and

568 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

necessarily so, else it could not answer those purposes of na-
tional security and interest in the external relations of a country
for which it is designed. Nor does the manner in which it is
granted in our Constitution furnish any argument against the
magnitude which is ascribed to it, but the contrary. A treaty
cannot be made without the actual co-operation and mutual
consent of the Executive and two-thirds of the Senate. This
necessity of positive co-operation of the Executive charges him
with a high responsibility, which cannot but be one great se-
curity for the proper exercise of the power. The proportion
of the Senate requisite to their valid consent to a treaty, ap-
proaches so near to unanimity that it would always be very
extraordinary, if it should be given to one really pernicious or
hurtful to the state. These great guards are manifest indica-
tions of a great power being meant to be deposited. So that
the manner of its deposit is an argument for its magnitude
rather than an argument against it, and an argument against
the intention to admit with a view to security the discretionary
co-operation of the House of Kepresentatives rather than in favor
of such a right in them.

Two-thirds of the two Houses of Congress may exercise their
whole legislative power not only without but against the consent
of the Executive. It is not evident on general principles that in
this arrangement there is a materially greater security against a
bad law than in the other against a bad treaty. The frequent
absolute necessity of secrecy not only in the conduct of a foreign
negotiation but at certain conjunctures, as to the very articles of
a treaty, is a natural reason why a part, and that the least nu-
merous part, of the legislative body was united with the Executive
in the making of treaties in exclusion of the other and the most
numerous. But if the deposit of the power of treaty was less
safe, and less well guarded than it is conceived to be, this would
not be a good argument against its being in fact exclusively
•deposited as the terms of the Constitution, which establish it, im-
port it to be. It would only be an argument for an amendment
to the Constitution modifying the deposit of the power differently,
.and superadding new guards.

jEt. 39.] MESSAGE. 569

If the House of Kepresentatives, called upon to act in aid of a
treaty made by the President and Senate, believe it to be un-
warranted by the Constitution which they are sworn to support,
it will not be denied that they may pause in the execution until
a decision on the point of constitutionality in the Supreme Court
of the United States shall have settled the question.

But this is the only discretion of that House, as to the obli-
gation to carry a treaty made by the President and Senate into
effect, in the existence of which I can acquiesce as being within
the intent of the Constitution.

Hence there was no question, in my opinion, of the competen-
cy of the House of Representatives, which I could presuppose
likely to arise, to which any of the papers now requested could be
deemed applicable ; nor does it yet appear that any such ques-
tion has arisen, upon which the request has been predicated.

Were even the course of reasoning which I have pursued less
well founded than it appears to me to be, the call for papers as
a preliminary proceeding of the House would still seem to be
premature.

A question on the constitutionality of a treaty can manifestly
only be decided by comparing the instrument itself with the
Constitution.

A question whether a treaty be consistent with, or adverse
to the interests of the United States, must likewise be decided
by comparing the stipulations which it actually contains with
the situation of the United Sates in their internal and external
relations.

Nothing extrinsic to the treaty, or in the manner of its nego-
tiation, can make it constitutional or unconstitutional, good or
bad, salutary or pernicious. The internal evidence it affords
is the only proper standard of its merits.

Whatever therefore be the nature of the duty, or discretion of
the House, as to the execution of the treaty, it will find its rule of
action in the treaty.

Even with reference to and animadversion on the conduct of
the agents who made the treaty, the presumption of a criminal
mismanagement of the interests of the United States ought first,

570. HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

it is conceived, to be deduced from the intrinsic nature of the trea-
ty, and ought to be pronounced to exist prior to a further inquiry
to ascertain the guilt and the guilty. Whenever the House of
Representatives, proceeding upon any treaty, shall have taken
the ground that such a presumption exists, in order to such an
inquiry, their request to the Executive to be caused to be laid
before them papers which may contain information on the subject,
will rest on a foundation that cannot fail to secure to it due effi-
cacy.

But, under all the circumstances of the present request (cir-
cumstances which I forbear to particularize), and in its present
indefinite form, I adopt with reluctance and regret, but with en-
tire conviction, the opinion, that a just regard to the Constitution
and to the duty of my office forbids on my part a compliance
with that request.

FAREWELL ADDRESS.

ABSTRACT OF POINTS TO FORM AN ADDRESS.*

1796.

I. The period of a new election approaching, it is his duty to
announce his intention to decline.

II. He had hoped that long ere this it would have been in his
power, and particularly had nearly come to a final resolution in
the year 1792 to do it, but the peculiar situation of affairs, and
advice of confidential friends, dissuaded.

III. In acquiescing in a further election he still hoped a year
or two longer would have enabled him to withdraw, but a con-
tinuance of causes has delayed till now, when the position of our

* This endorsement, together with the whole of this paper, is copied from a
draft in Hamilton's hand.— Ed.

jEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 571

country, abroad and at home, justify him in pursuing his incli-
nation.

IV. In doing it he has not been unmindful of his relation as
a dutiful citizen to his country, nor is now influenced by the
smallest diminution of zeal for its interest or gratitude for its
past kindness, but by a belief that the step is compatible with
both.

Y. The impressions under which he first accepted were ex-
plained on the proper occasion.

VI. In the execution of it he has contributed the best exer-
tions of a very fallible judgment — anticipated his insufficiency —
experienced his disqualifications for the difficult trust, and every
day a stronger sentiment from that cause to yield the place — ad-
vance into the decline of life — every day more sensible of weight
of years, of the necessity of repose, of the duty to seek retire-
ment, &c. Add,

VII. It will be among the purest enjoyments which can
sweeten the remnant of his days, to partake in a private station,
in the midst of his fellow-citizens, the laws of a free government,
the ultimate object of his cares and wishes.

VIII. As to rotation.

IX. In contemplating the moment of retreat, cannot forbear
to express his deep acknowledgments and debt of gratitude for
the many honors conferred on him — the steady confidence which,
even amidst discouraging scenes and efforts to poison its source,
has adhered to support him, and enabled him to be useful —
marking, if well placed, the virtue and wisdom of his country-
men. All the return he can now make must be in the vows he
will carry with him to his retirement: 1st, for a continuance of
the Divine beneficence to his country ; 2d, for the perpetuity of
their union and brotherly affection — for a good administration
insured by a happy union of watchfulness and confidence ; 3d,
that happiness of people under auspices of liberty may be com-
plete ; 4th, that by a prudent use of the blessing they may re-
commend to the affection, the praise, and the adoption, of every
nation yet a stranger to it.

X. Perhaps here he ought to end. But an unconquerable

572 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

solicitude for the happiness of his country will not permit him
to leave the scene without availing himself of whatever confi-
dence may remain in him, to strengthen some sentiments which
he believes to be essential to their happiness, and to recommend
some rules of conduct, the importance of which his own experi-
ence has more than ever impressed upon him.

XL To consider the Union as the rock of their salvation,
presenting summarily these ideas:

1. The strength and greater security from external danger.

2. Internal peace, and avoiding the necessity of establishments
Safety, peace dangerous to liberty.

and liberty and D

commerce. 3. Avoids the effects of foreign intrigue.

4. Breaks the force of faction by rendering combinations more
difficult.
Fitness of the parts for each other by their very discrimi-
nations :

1. The North, by its capacity for maritime strength and
manufacture.

2. The agricultural South furnishing materials and requiring
those protections.

The Atlantic board to the western country by the strong in-
terest of peace, and

The Western, by the necessity of Atlantic maritime protection.

Cannot be secure of their great outlet otherwise — cannot trust
a foreign connection.

Solid interests invite to Union. Speculation of difficulty of
Government ought not to be indulged, nor momentary jealousies
— lead to impatience.

Faction and individual ambition are the only advisers of dis-
union.

Let confidence be cherished. Let the recent experience of
the West be a lesson against impatience and distrust.

XII. Cherish the actual Government. It is the Government
of our own choice, free in its principles, the guardian of our
common rights, the patron of our common interests, and con-
taining within itself a provision for its own amendment.

But let that provision be cautiously used — not abused ; chang-
ing only in any material points as experience shall direct; nei-

jEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 573

ther indulging speculations of too much or too little force in the
system ; and remembering always the extent of our country.

Time and habit of great consequence to every government of
"whatever structure.

Discourage the spirit of faction, the bane of free government ;
and particularly avoid founding it on geographical discrimina-
tions. Discountenance slander of public men. Let the Depart-
ments of Government avoid interfering and mutual encroach-
ment.

XIII. Morals, religion, industry, commerce, economy.
Cherish public credit — source of strength and security.
Adherence to systematic views.

XIV. Cherish good faith, justice, and peace, with other na-
tions :

1. Because religion and morality dictate it.

2. Because policy dictates it.

If these could exist, a nation invariably honest and faithful,
the benefits would be immense.

But avoid national antipathies or national attachments.

Display the evils ; fertile source of wars — instrument "of ambi-
tious rulers.

XV. Eepublics peculiarly exposed to foreign intrigue, those
sentiments lay them open to it.

XVI. The great rule of our foreign politics ought to be to
have as little political connection as possible with foreign nations.

Cultivating commerce with all by gentle
Establishing temporary and an(j natural means, diffusing and diversifying

convenient rules that com- ' <-> .

rnerce may be placed on a sta- •+ but forcinq nothinq — and cherish the senti-

ble footing ; merchants know ) J O o

p^theTnoTsLkYng^: ment of independence, taking pride in the ap-
pellation of American.

XVII. Our separation from Europe renders standing alliances
inexpedient — subjecting our peace and interest to the primary
and complicated relations of European interests.

C Keeping constantly in view to place ourselves upon a re-
\ spectable defensive, and if forced into controversy, trusting to
( connections of the occasion.

XVIII. Our attitude imposing and rendering this policy
safe.

574 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

But this must be with the exception of existing engagements,
to be preserved but not extended.

XIX. It is not expected that these admonitions can control
the course of the human passions, but if they only moderate
them in some instances, and now and then excite the reflections
of virtuous men heated by party spirit, my endeavor is rewarded.

XX. How far in the administration of my present office my
conduct has conformed to these principles, the public records
must witness. My conscience assures me that I believed myself
to be guided by them.

XXI. Particularly in relation to the present war, the procla-
mation of the 22d of April, 1793, is the key to my plan.

Touch sentiments Approved by your voice and that of your repre-

conducIt'Sorclbei0 sentatives in Congress, the spirit of that measure has

Aerewisi.p0Wthat continually guided me, uninfluenced by, and regard-

tabiishTgood^ov- less of, the complaints and attempts of any of the

powers at war or their partisans to change them.

I thought our country had a right under all the

tTh'i!!g. every circumstances to take this ground, and I was resolved

as far as depended on me to maintain it firmly.

XXII. However, in reviewing the course of my administra-
tion, I may be unconscious of intentional errors, I am too sen-
sible of my own deficiencies not to believe that I may have fallen
into many. I deprecate the evils to which they may tend,
and pray Heaven to avert or mitigate and abridge them. I carry
with me, nevertheless, the hope that my motives will continue to
be viewed with indulgence, that after forty-five years of my life
devoted to public service with a good zeal and upright views,
the faults of deficient abilities will be consigned to oblivion, and
myself must soon be to the mansions of rest.

XXIII. Neither interest nor ambition has been my impelling
motive. I never abused the power confided' to me — I have not
bettered my fortune, retiring with it, no otherwise improved than
by the influence on property of the common blessings of my
country : — I retire with undefiled hands and an uncorrupted
heart, and with ardent vows for the welfare of that country,
which has been the native soil of myself and my ancestors for

four generations.

Mr. 39. J FAREWELL ADDRESS. -)7'>

WASHINGTON'S FAREWELL ADDRESS*

Draft by Hamilton.

August, 1796.

The period for a new election of a citizen to administer the
executive government of the United States, being not very distant,
and the time actually arrived when your thoughts must be em-
ployed in designating the person who is to be clothed with that
important trust for another term, it appears to me proper, and
especially as it may conduce to a more distinct expression of the
public voice, that I should now apprize you of the resolution I
have formed to decline being considered among the number of
those out of whom a choice is to be made.

I beg you, nevertheless,! to be assured that the resolution
which I announce, has not been taken without a strict regard to
all the considerations attached to^: the relation which, as a duti-
ful citizen, I bear § to my || country, and that in withdrawing the
tender of my service, which silence in my situation might imply,
I am influenced by no diminution of zeal for its future interest,
nor by any deficiency of grateful respect for its past kindness,
but by a full conviction that such a step is compatible with both.

The acceptance of, and the continuance hitherto in the office
to which your suffrages have twice called me, has been a uniform
sacrifice of private inclination to 1" the opinion of public duty
coinciding with what appeared to be your wishes. I had con-
stantly hoped that it would have been much earlier in my power,
consistently with motives which I was not at liberty to disregard,

* This is a copy of the original draft in Hamilton's autograph. The notes
embrace the final alterations in this draft— but there are many previous erasures
which can only be given in a fac-simile.— Ed.

I at the same time.

% connected with— inseparable from — incident to.

§ bears.

|| his.

*[[ combined with a deference for.

576 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

to return to that retirement from which those* motives had re-
luctantly drawn me.

The strength of my desire to withdraw previous to the last
election, had even led to the preparation of an address to declare
it to you, but deliberate f reflection on the very critical and per-
plexed posture of our affairs with foreign nations, and the unani-
mous advice of men;}: every way entitled to my confidence,
obliged § me to abandon the idea.

I rejoice that the state of your national concerns, external as
well as internal, no longer renders the pursuit of my inclination
incompatible with the sentiment of duty or propriety, and | that
whatever partiality any portion of you may still retain for my
services, they, under the existing circumstances of our country,
will not disapprove the^f resolution** I have formed.

The impressions under which I first accepted the arduous
trust of Chief Magistrate of the United States, were explained
on the proper occasion. In the discharge of this trust, I can
only say that I have, with pure intentions, contributed towards
the organization and administration of the government the best
exertions of Avhich a very fallible judgment was capable; that
conscious at ft the outset of the inferiority of my qualifications
for the station, experience in my own eyes, and perhaps still
more in those of others, has not diminished in me the diffidence
of myself — and every day the increasing weight of years admon-
ishes me more and more that the shade of retirement is as neces-
sary^ as it will be welcome to me. Satisfied that if any cir-
cumstances have given a peculiar value to my services, they were
temporary. I have the consolation to believe that while inclina-
tion and prudence urge me to recede from the political scene,
patriotism does not forbid it. May I also have that of knowing
in my §§ retreat, that the involuntary errors which I have probably
committed, have been the causes of no serious or lasting mischief
to my country, and thus be spared the anguish of regrets which
would disturb the repose of my retreat and embitter the remnant

* they.

f mature.

| persons.

§ impelled,

| whatever.

IF my.

** to retire.

ft in.

:)4 to me.

§§ retirement.

At. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 577

of my life! I may then expect to realize, without alloy, the
pure enjoyment of partaking, in the midst of my fellow-citizens,
of the benign influence of good laws under a free government;
the ultimate object of all my wishes, and to which I look as the
happy reward* of our mutual labors and dangers.

In looking forward to the moment which is to terminate the
career of my public life, my sensations do not permit me to sus-
pend the deep acknowledgments required by that debt of grati-
tude, which I owe to my beloved country, for the many honors
it has conferred upon me, still more for the distinguished and
steadfast confidence it has reposed in me, and for the opportuni-
ties it has thus afforded mef of manifesting my inviolable attach-
ment, by services faithful and persevering — however the mad-
equateness of my faculties may have ill seconded mjX zeal. If
benefits have resulted to you, my fellow-citizens, from these ser-
vices, let it always be remembered to your praise, and as an in-
structive example in our annals, that the constancy of your sup-
port amidst appearances§ dubious, vicissitudes of fortune often
discouraging, and in situations in which, not unfrequently, want
of success has seconded the criticisms of malevolence,! was the
essential prop of the efforts and the guarantee of the measures by
which they were achieved.

Profoundly penetrated with this idea, I shall carry it with me
to my retirement, and to my grave, as a lively incitement to
unceasing vows (the only returns I can henceforth make) that
Heaven may continue to you the choicest tokens of its benefi-
cence, merited by national piety and morality— that your union
and brotherly affection may be perpetual— that the free Constitu-
tion, which is the work of your own hands, may be sacredly
maintained— that its administration in every department may be
stamped with wisdom and virtue— that, in fine, the happiness of

* I hope.

■f I have thence enjoyed.

X have rendered their efforts unequal to my— disproportional.
$ under circumstances in which the passions, agitated in every direction, were
liable to the greatest fluctuations.
|| sometimes.

g 37

578 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 3ft

the people of these States under the auspices of liberty may be
made complete, by so careful a preservation, and so prudent a use
of this blessing, as will acquire them the glorious satisfaction of
recommending it to the affection — -the praise — and the adoption
of every nation which is yet a stranger to it.

Here, perhaps, I ought to stop ; but a solicitude for your
welfare, which cannot end but with my life, and the fear that
there may exist projects unfriendly to it, against which it may be
necessary you should be guarded, urge me in taking leave of you
to offer to your solemn consideration and frequent review, some
sentiments, the result of mature reflection confirmed by observa-
tion and experience, which appear to me essential to the perma-
nency of your felicity as a people. These will be offered with
the more freedom, as you can only see in them the disinterested
advice of a parting friend, who can have no personal motive to
tincture or bias his counsel.

Interwoven as is the love of liberty with every fibre of your
hearts, no recommendation is necessary to fortify your attachment
TO it. Next to this, that unity of government which constitutes
you one people, claims your vigilant care and guardianship — as
a main pillar of your real independence, of your peace, safety,
freedom, and happiness.

This being the point in your political fortress, against which
the batteries of internal and external enemies will be most con-
stantly and actively, however covertly and insidiously levelled,
it is of the utmost importance that you should appreciate, in
its full force, the immense value of your political union to
your national and individual happiness — that you should
cherish towards it an affectionate and immovable attachment,
and that you should watch for its preservation with zealous soli-
citude.

For this, you have every motive of sympathy and interest.
Children for the most part of a common country, that country
claims and ought to concentrate your affections. The name of
American must always gratify and exalt the just pride of patriot-
ism more than any denomination which can be derived from
local discriminations. You have with slight shades of difference

JEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 579

the same religion, manners, habits, and political institutions
and principles — you have, in a common cause, fought and tri-
umphed together. The independence and liberty you enjoy are
the work of joint councils, efforts, dangers, sufferings, and suc-
cesses. By your union you achieved them, by your union you
will most effectually maintain them.

The considerations which address themselves to your sensi-
bility, are greatly* strengthened! by those which apply to your
interest. Here, every portion of our country will find the most
urgent and commanding motives for guarding and preserving
the union of the whole.

The North in:}; intercourse with the South under the equal
laws of one government, will, in the productions of the latter,
many of them peculiar, find vast additional resources of mari-
time and commercial enterprise.! The South, in the same inter-
course, will share in the benefits of the agency of the North, will
find its agriculture promoted and its commerce extended by
turning into its own channels those means of navigation which
the North more abundantly affords ; and while it contributes to
extend the national navigation, will participate in the protection
of a maritime strength to which itself is unequally adapted. The
East, in a like intercourse with the West, fmds|| a valuable vent
for the commodities which it brings from abroad or manufactures
at home. The West derives through this channel an essential
supply of its wants; and what is far more important to it, it
must owe the secure and permanent enjoyment of the indis-
pensable outlets for its own productions to the weight, influ-
ence, and maritime resources of the Atlantic States.^" The
tenure by which it could hold this advantage either from its own
separate strength, or by an apostate and unnatural connection
with any foreign nation, must be intrinsically and necessarily

* even.

f outweighed.

$ free and unfettered.

$ and precious materials of their manufacturing industry.

II and in the progressive improvement of internal navigation will more and more

find.

T[ directed by an indissoluble community of interests.

580 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

precarious, at every moment liable to be disturbed by the* com-
binations' of those primaryf interests which constantly regulate
the conduct of every portion of Europe— and where every part
finds a particular interest in the Union. All the parts of our
country will find in their Union^: strength, proportional security
from external danger, less frequent interruption of their peace
with foreign nations; and what is far more valuable, an exemp-
tion from those broils and wars between the parts if disunited,
which, then, our rivalships, fomented by foreign intrigue or the
opposite alliances with foreign nations engendered by their mu-
tual jealousies, would inevitably produce.g

These considerations speak a conclusive language to every
virtuous and considerate mind. They place the continuance of
our union among the first objects of patriotic desire. Is there a
doubt whether a common government can long embrace so ex-
tensive a sphere ? Let time and experience decide the question.
Speculation in such a case ought not to be listened to. And 'tis
rational to hope that the auxiliary! governments of the subdivi-
sions, with a proper organization of the whole, will secure a fa-
vorable issue to the experiment. 'Tis allowable to believe that
the spirit of party, the intrigues of foreign nations, the corrup-
tion and the ambition of individuals, are likely to prove more
formidable adversaries to the unity of our empire, than any in-
herent difficulties in the scheme. 'Tis against these that the
guards^" of national opinion, national sympathy, national prudence
and virtue, are to be erected. With such obvious motives to
union, there will be always cause from the fact itself to distrust
the patriotism of those who** may endeavor to weaken its bands.

* .fluctuating.

•f- European.

X greater independence from the superior abundance and variety of production
incident to the diversity of soil and climate. All the parts of it must find in the ag-
gregate assemblage and reaction of their mutual population — production.

§ consequent exemption from the necessity of those military establishments up-
on a large scale which bear in every country so menacing an aspect towards liberty.

|| agency of.

«|[ mounds.

** in any quarter-

At. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 581

And by all the love I bear you, my fellow-citizens, I conjure*
you, asf often as it appears, to frown upon tlie attempt.

Besides the more serious causes which have been hinted at,
as endangering our Union, there is another less dangerous but
against which it is necessary to be on our guard ; I mean the
petulance of party;}: differences of opinion. It is not uncom-
mon to hear the irritations which these excite, vent themselves
in declarations that the different parts of the Union are ill
assorted and cannot remain together — in menaces from the
inhabitants of one part to those of another, that it will be dis-
solved by this or that measure. Intimations of the kind are as
indiscreet as they are intemperate. Though frequently made
with levity and without being in earnest, they have a tendency
to produce the consequence which they indicate. They teach
the minds of men to consider the Union as precarious, as an ob-
ject to which they are not to attach their hopes and fortunes, and
thus weaken the sentiment in its favor. By rousing the resent-
ment and alarming the pride of those to whom they are ad-
dressed, they set ingenuity to work to depreciate the value of
the object, and to discover motives of indifference to it. This is
not wise. Prudence demands that we should habituate our-
selves in all our words and actions to reverence the Union as a
sacred and inviolable palladium of our happiness, and should
discountenance whatever can lead to a suspicion that it can in
any event be abandoned.

'Tis matter of serious concern that parties in this country for
some time past have been too much characterized by geographi-
cal discriminations— northern and southern States, Atlantic and
western country. These discriminations, § which are the mere
artifice of the spirit of party, (always dexterous to avail itself of
every source of sympathy, of every handle by which the passions
can be taken hold of, and which has been careful to turn to
account the circumstance of territorial vicinity,-!) have furnished
an argument against the Union as evidence of a real difference

* exhort— {written first.) t " often"— instead of " far."

% collisions and disgusts. $ of party.

|| sympathy of. 11 neighborhood.

582 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 39.

of local interests and views, and serve to hazard it by organ-
izing large districts of country under the direction of* different
factions whose passions and prejudices, rather than the true
interests of the country, will be too apt to regulate the use of
their influence. If it be possible to correct this poison in the
affairs of our country, it is worthy the best endeavors of mode
rate and virtuous men to effect it.

One of the expedients which the partisans of faction employ
towards strengthening their influence by local discriminations, f
is to misrepresent the opinions and views of rival districts. The
people at large cannot be too much on their guard against the
jealousies which grow out of these misrepresentations. They
tend to render aliens to each other those who ought to be tied
together by fraternal affection. The western country have lately
had a useful lesson on this subject. They have seen in the
negotiation by the Executive, and in the unanimous ratification
of the treaty with Spain by the Senate, and in the universal sat-
isfaction at that event in all parts of the country, a decisive proof
how unfounded have been the suspicions instilled:}: in them of a
policy in the Atlantic States, and in the different departments of
the general government, hostile to their interests in relation to
the Mississippi. They have seen two treaties formed which se-
cure to them every thing that they could desire to confirm their
prosperity. Will they not henceforth rely for the preservation
of these advantages on that Union by which they were procured?
Will they not reject those counsellors who would render them

alien to their brethren and connect them with aliens?

To the duration and efficacy of your Union, a government
extending over the whole is indispensable. No alliances how-
ever strict between the parts could be an adequate substitute.
These could not fail to be liable to the infractions and inter-
ruptions which all alliances in all times have suffered. Sen-
sible of this important truth, you have lately established a Con-
stitution of general government, better calculated than the for-
mer for an intimate union, and more adequate to the duration of

* the leaders of. f within local spheres. ^ propagated among.

.Et. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 583

your common concerns. This government, the offspring of your
own choice, uninfluenced and unavved, completely free in its
principles, in the distribution of its powers, uniting energy with
safety, and containing in itself a provision for its own amend-
ment, is well entitled to your confidence and support. Respect
for its authority, compliance with its laws, acquiescence in its
measures,* are duties dictated by the fundamental maxims of
true liberty. The basis of our political systems is the right of
the people to make and to alter their constitutions of govern-
ment. But the Constitution for the time, and until changed by
an explicit and authentic act of the whole people, is sacredly bind-
ing upon alL The very idea of the right and power of the peo-
ple to establish government, presupposes the duty of every indi-
vidual to obey the established government.

All obstructions to the execution of the laws — all combina-
tions and associations under whatever plausible character, with
the real design to counteract^ control, £ or awe the regular§ ac-
tion of the constituted authorities, are contrary to this fundamen-
tal principle, and of the most fatal tendency. They serve to
organize faction, || and to put in the stead of the delegated will of
the whole nation the will of a party, often a small** minority of
the whole community; and according to the alternate triumph
of different parties to make the public administration reflect theft
schemes and projects of faction rather than the wholesome plans
of common councils and deliberations. However combinations
or associations of this description may occasionally promote po-
pular ends and purposes, they are likely to produce, in the course
of time and things, the most effectual engines by which artful,
ambitious, and unprincipled men will be enabled to subvert
the power of the people and usurp the reins of government.

Towards the preservation of your government and the per-

* ordinary management of affairs to be left to represent.

•f direct.

jf. influence.

^ deliberation or.

j| to give it an artificial force.

** but artful and enterprising.

ff ill concerted.

584 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

manency of your present happy state, it is not only requisite
that you steadily discountenance irregular oppositions to its
authority, but that you should be upon your guard against the
spirit of innovation upon its principles, however specious the
pretexts. One method of assault may be, to effect alterations in
the forms of the Constitution tending to impair the energy of the
system, and so to undermine what cannot be directly overthrown.
In all the changes to which you may be invited, remember that
time and habit are as necessary to fix the true character of gov-
ernments as of any other human institutions; that experience is
the surest standard by which the real tendency of existing con-
stitutions of government can be tried ; that changes upon* the
credit of mere hypothesis and opinion exposes you to perpetual
change from the successive and endless variety of hypothesis and
opinion. And remember also,f that for the efficacious manage-
ment of your common interests, in a country so extensive as
ours, a government of as much force and strength as is consist-
ent with the perfect security of liberty is indispensable. Liber-
ty itself will find in such a government, with powers properly
distributed and arranged, its surest guardian and protector. In
my opinion, the real danger in our system is, that the general
government, organized as at present, will prove too weak, rather
than too powerful.

I have already observed the danger to be apprehended from
founding our parties on geographical discriminations. Let me
now enlarge the view of this point, and caution you in the most
solemn manner against the baneful effects of party spirit in ge-
neral. This spirit unfortunately is inseparable from human na-
ture, and has its root in the strongest passions of the human
heart. It exists under different shapes in all governments, but J
in those of the popular form it is always seen in its utmost vigor
and rankness, and is their worst enemy. In republics of narrow
extent, it is not difficult for those who at any time possess the
reins of administration, or even for partial combinations of men,

* facility in.

t always.

£ in different degrees stifled, controlled or repressed.

JEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 585

who from birth, riches, and other sources of distinction, have an
extraordinary influence, by possessing or acquiring the direction
of the military force, or by sudden efforts of partisans and fol-
lowers to overturn the established order of things, and effect a
usurpation. But in republics of large extent, the one or the
other is scarcely possible. The powers and opportunities of re-
sistance of a numerous and wide extended nation defy the suc-
cessful efforts of the ordinary military force, or of any collections*
which wealth and patronage may call to their aid, especially if
there be no city of overbearing force, resources, and influence.
In such republics it is perhaps safe to assert, that the conflicts of
popular faction offer the only avenues to tyranny and usurpation.
The domination of one faction over another, stimulated by
that spirit of revenge which is apt to be gradually engendered,
and which in different ages and countries has produced the great-
est enormities, is itself a frightful despotism. But this leads at
length to a more formal and permanent despotism. The disor-
ders and miseries which result, predispose the minds of men to
seek repose and security in the absolute power of a single man.
And thef leader of a prevailing faction, more able or more for-
tunate than his competitors, turns this disposition to the purposes
of an ambitious and criminal self-aggrandizement.

Without looking forward to such an extremity (which, how-
ever, ought not to be out of sight), the ordinary and continual
mischiefs of the spirit of party make it the interest and the duty
of a wise people, to discountenance and repress it.

It serves always to distract the councils and enfeeble the
administration of the government. It agitates the community
with ill-founded jealousies and false alarms.:}: It opens inlets for
foreign corruption and influence, which find an easy access
through the channels of party passions — and cause the true
policy and interest of our own country to be made subservient to
the policy and interest of one and another foreign nation ; some-

* assemblages,
•f- sonic.

X embittering one part of the community against another, and producing occa-
sionally riot and insurrection.

586 HAMILTON'S WORKS. I Air. 39.

times enslaving our own government to the will of a foreign
government.

There is an opinion that parties in free countries are salutary
checks upon the administration of the government, and serve to
invigorate the spirit of liberty. This, within certain limits, is
true ; and in governments of a monarchical character or bias,
patriotism may look with some favor on the spirit of party. But
in those of the popular kind, in those purely elective, it is a
spirit not to be fostered or encouraged. From the natural tend-
ency of such governments, it is certain there will always be
enough of it for every salutary purpose, and there being constant
danger of excess, the effort ought to be, by the force of public
opinion, to mitigate and correct it. 'Tis a fire which *cannot be
quenched, but demandsf a uniform vigilance to prevent its
bursting into a flame — lest it should not only warm, but con-
sume.

It is important, likewise, that the habits of thinking of the
people should tend to produce caution in their public agents in
the several departments of government, to retain each within its
proper sphere, and not to permit one to encroach upon another,
— that every attempt of the kind, from whatever quarter, should
meet with the discountenance^: of the community, and that, in
every case in which a precedent of encroachment shall have
been given, a corrective be sought in [revocation be effected by]
a careful attention to the next choice§ of public agents. The
spirit of encroachment tends to absorbf the powers of the several
branches and departments into one, and thus to establish, under
whatever forms, a despotism. A just knowledge of the human
heart, of that love of power which predominates in it, is alone
sufficient to establish this truth. Experiments, ancient and
modern — some in our own country, and under our own eyes,
serve to confirm it. If, in the public opinion, the distribution of
the constitutional powers be in any instance wrong, or inexpe-
dient— let it be corrected by the authority of the people in a

* not to. t demanding. £ reprobation.

§ election. || and consolidate.

jEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 587

legitimate constitutional course. Let there be no change by
usurpation, for though this may be the instrument of good in one
instance, it is the ordinary* instrument of the destructionf of
free government — and. the influence of the precedent is always
infinitely more pernicious than any thing which it may achieve
can be beneficial.

In all those dispositions which promote political happmess,^
religion and morality are essential props. In vain does he§
claim the praise of patriotism, who labors to subvert or under-
mine these great pillars of human happiness, these firmest foun-
dations of the duties of men and citizens. The mere politician,
equally with the pious man, ought to respect and cherish them.
A volume could not trace all their connections with private and
public happiness.

Let it simply be asked, where is the security for property, for
reputation, for life, if the sense of moral and religious obligation
deserts the oaths which are ||administered in courts of j ustice ?
Nor ought we to flatter ourselves that morality can be separated
from religion. Concede as much as may be asked to the effect
of refined education in minds of peculiar structure — can we be-
lieve— can we in prudence suppose that national morality can be
maintained in exclusion of religious principles ? Does it not
require the aid of a generally received and divinely authoritative
religion ?

"Tis essentially true that virtue or morality is a main and ne-
cessary spring of popular or republican governments. The rule,
indeed, extends with more or less force to all free governments.
Who that is a prudent and sincere friend to them, can look with
indifference on the ravages which are making in the foundation
of the fabric — religion ? The uncommon means which of late
have been directed to this fatal end, seem to make it in a parti-
cular manner the duty of the retiring chief of a nation to warn
his country against tasting of the poisonous draught.

Cultivate also, industry and frugality. They arc auxiliaries

* and natural. t death. t prosperity.

<j that man. |J instruments of investigation.

588 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 39.

of good morals, and great sources of private and national pros-
perity. Is there not room for regret, that our propensity to ex-
pense exceeds the maturity of our country for expense? Is
there not more luxury among us, in various classes, than suits
the actual period of our national progress ? Whatever may be
the apology for luxury in a country mature in all the arts which
are its ministers and the means of national opulence — can it pro-
mote the advantage of a young agricultural country, little ad-
vanced in manufactures, and not much advanced in wealth ?*

Cherish public credit as a mean of strength and security.
As one method of preserving it, use it as little as possible.
Avoid occasions of expense by cultivating peace — remembering
always that the preparation against danger, by timely and provi-
dent disbursements, is often a mean of avoiding greater disburse-
ments to repel it. Avoid the accumulation of debt by avoiding
occasions of expense, and by vigorous exertions in time of peace
to discharge the debts which unavoidable wars -may have occa-
sioned, not transferring to posterity the burthen which we ought
to bear ourselves. Eecollect, that towards the payment of debts
there must be revenue, that to have revenue there must be taxes,
that it is impossible to devise taxes which are not, more or less,
inconvenient and unpleasant — that they are always a choice
of difficulties — that the intrinsic embarrassment which never
fails to attend a selection of objects, ought to be a motive
for a candid construction of the conduct of the government in
making it — and that a spirit of acquiescence in those measures
for obtaining revenue which the public exigencies dictate, is, in
an especial manner, the duty and interest of the citizens of every
State.

Cherish good faith and justice towards, and peace and har-
mony with, all nations. Keligion and morality enjoin this con-
duct, and it cannot be but that true policy equally demands it.
It will be worthy of a free, enlightened, and at no distant period,
a great nation, to give to mankind the magnanimous and too
novel example of a people invariably governed byf those exalted

* in the infancy of the arts, and certainly not in the manhood of wealth,
f exalted justice and henevolence.

jEt. 39] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 589

views. Who can doubt that in a long course of time and events
the fruits of such a conduct would richly repay any temporary
advantages which might be lost by a steady adherence to the
plan ? Can it be that Providence has not connected the perma-
nent felicity of a nation with its virtue? The experiment is
recommended by every sentiment which ennobles human nature.
— Alas ! is it rendered impossible by its vices ?

Towards the execution of such a plan, ^nothing is more
essential than that f antipathies against particular nations and
passionate attachments for others, should be avoided, — and
that instead of them we should cultivate just and amicable
feelings towards all . . . .That nation, which indulges towards
another, an habitual hatred or an habitual fondness, is in some
degree a slave ... .It is a slave to its animosity, or to its affec-
tion— either of which is sufficient to lead it astray from its duty
and interest. Antipathy against one nation, which never fails to
beget a similar sentiment in the other, disposes each more readily
to offer injury and insult to the other, to lay hold of slight causes
of umbrage, and to be haughty and untractable, when accidental
or trifling differences arise. Hence frequent quarrels:}: and bitter
and obstinate contests. The nation, urged by resentment and
rage, sometimes impels the government to war, contrary to its
own calculations of policy. The government sometimes partici-
pates in this propensity, and does through passion, what reason
would forbid at other times ; it makes the animosity of the na-
tions subservient to hostile projects which originate in ambition
and other sinister motives. The peace, often, and sometimes the
liberty of nations, has been the victim of this cause.

In like manner, § a passionate attachment of one nation to
another produces multiplied ills. Sympathy for the favorite

* it is very material.

t that while we entertain proper impressions of particular cases— of friendly or
unfriendly conduct of different foreign nations towards us, we nevertheless avoid
fixed and rooted antipathies against any. or passionate attachments for any, instead
of these cultivating, as a general rule, just and amicable feelings towards all.

$ broils.

§ So likewise.

590 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

nation, promoting* the illusion of a supposed common interest,
in cases where it does not exist, fthe enmities of the one betrays
into a participation in its quarrels and wars, without adequate
inducements or justifications. It leads to the concession of pri-
vileges to one nation, and to the denial of them to others — which
is apt doubly to injure the nation making the concession by an
unnecessary yielding of what ought to have been retained, and
by exciting jealousy, ill-will, and retaliation in the party from
whom an equal privilege is withheld. And it gives to ambitious,
corrupted:}: citizens, who devote themselves to the views of the
favorite foreign power, facility in betraying or sacrificing the
interests of their own country, even with popularity,! gilding
withf

As avenues to foreign influence in innumerable ways, such
attachments are peculiarly alarming to the enlightened inde-
pendent patriot. How many opportunities do they afford to
intrigue with domestic factions, to practise with success the arts
of seduction, to misleadl~the public opinion — to influence or awe
the public councils ? Such an attachment of a small or weak,
towards a great and powerful nation, destines the former to re-
volve round the latter as its satellite.

Against the mischiefs of foreign influence all the jealousy of
a free people ought to be constantly** exerted ;f f but the jealousy
of it to be useful must be impartial, else it becomes an instru-
ment of the very influence to be avoided instead of a defence^
against it.

Excessive partiality for one foreign nation, and excessive dis-

* facilitating.

f and communicating to one.

X or deluded.

() without odium.

|| the appearance of a virtuous impulse, the base yieldings of ambition or cor-
ruption.

H" " mislead "for " misdirect."

** continually.

ff all history and experience in different ages and nations has proved that foreign
influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican government.

Xt guard.

JEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 591

like of another, leads to see danger only on one side, and serves
to veil* the arts of influence on the other. Real patriots, who
resist the intrigues of the favorite, become suspected and odious.
Its tools and dupes usurp the applause and confidence of the
people to betray their interests.

The great rule of conduct for us in regard to foreign nations,
ought to be to have as little political connection with them as
possible. So far as we have already formed engagements, let
them be fulfilled with circumspection, indeed, but with perfect
good faith ; heref let it stop.

Europe has a set of primary interests, which have none or a
very remote relation to us. Hence she must be involved in
frequent contests, the causes of which will be essentially foreign
to us. Hence, therefore, it must necessarily be unwise on our
part to implicate ourselves by an artificial connection in the
ordinary vicissitudes of European politics — in the combination
and collisions of her friendships or enmities.

Our detached and distant situation invites us to a different
course, and enables us to pursue it. If we remain a united peo-
ple, under an efficient government, the period is not distant when
we may defy material injury from external annoyance — when we
may take such an attitude as will cause the neutrality we shall
at any time resolve to observe, to be violated with caution
— when it will be the interest of belligerent nations, under the
impossibility of making acquisitions upon us, to be very careful
how either forced us to throw our weight into the opposite scale
— when we may choose peace or war, as our interest, guided by
justice, shall dictate*

Why should we forego the advantages of so felicitous a
situation? "Why quit our own ground to stand upon foreign
ground ? Why, by interweaving our destiny with any part of
Europe, should we entangle our prosperity and peace in the nets
of European ambition, rivalship, interest or caprice ?

Permanent alliance, intimate connection with any part of the
foreign world, is to be avoided ; so far, I mean, as we are now at

* and second. t but there.

592 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

liberty to do it; for let me never be understood as patronizing
infidelity to pre-existing engagements. These must be observed
in their true and genuine sense.*

Harmony, liberal intercourse, and commerce with all nations,
are recommended by justice, humanity, and interest. But even
our commercial policy should hold an equal hand, neither seek-
ing nor granting exclusive favors or preferences — consulting the
natural course of things — diffusing and diversifying by gentle
means the streams of commerce, but forcing nothing — establish-
ing with powers so disposed f temporary:}; rules of intercourse, the
best that present circumstances and mutual opinion of interest
will permit, but temporary ; and liable to be abandoned or varied,
as time, experience, and future circumstances may dictate —
remembering§ that it is folly in one nation to expect disinterested
favor in another — that to accept|| is to part with a portion of its
independence, and that it may find itself in the condition of
having given equivalents for nominal favors, and of being
reproached with ingratitude in the bargain. There can be no
greater error in national policy than to desire, expect, or calculate
upon real favors. Tis an illusion that experience must cure,
that a just pride ought to discard.

In offering to you, my countrymen, these counsels of an old
and affectionate friend — counsels suggested by laborious reflec-
tion, and matured by a various experience, I dare not hope
that they will make the strong and lasting impressions I wish —
that they will control the current of the passions or prevent our
nation from running the course which has hitherto marked the
destiny of all nations.

ButT if they may even produce partial benefit, some occasional

* But 'tis not necessary, nor will it be prudent, to extend them. 'Tis our true
policy, as a general principle, to avoid permanent or close alliances. Taking care
always to keep ourselves by suitable establishments in a respectably defensive posi-
tion, we may safely trust to occasional alliances for extraordinary emergencies.

f In order to give to trade a stable course, to define the rights of our merchants,
and enable the government to support them.

% and conventional.

§ always.

|| any thing under that character.

% I may flatter myself.

vEt. 39.] FAREWELL ADDRESS. 593

good . . . that they sometimes recur to moderate the violence of
party spirit — to warn against the evils of foreign intrigue — to
guard against the impositions of pretended patriotism — the hav-
ing offered them, must always afford me a precious consolation.

How far in the execution of my present office I have been
guided by the principles which have been recommended,* the
public records and the external evidences of my conduct must
witness. My conscience assures me that I have at least believed
myself to be guided by them.

In reference to the present war of Europe, my proclamation
of the 22d of April, 1793, is the key to my plan, sanctioned by
your approving voice, and that of your Representatives in Con-
gress— the spirit of that measure has continually governed me —
uninfluenced and unawed by the attempts of any of the warring
powers, their agents, or partisans, to deter or divert from it.

After deliberate consideration, and the best lights I could
obtain (and from men who did not agree in their views of the
origin, progress, and nature of that war) I was satisfied that our
country, under all the circumstances of the case, had a right and
was bound in propriety and interest to take a neutral position.
And having taken it, I determined asf should depend on me to
maintain it steadily and firmly 4

Though in reviewing the incidents of my administration, I
am unconscious of intentional error — I am yet too sensible of my
own deficiencies, not to think it possible§ that I have committed
many errors — I deprecate the evils to which they may tend —
and fervently implore the Almighty to avert or mitigate them.
I shall carry with me, nevertheless, the hope that my motives
will continue to be viewed by my country with indulgence, and
that after forty-five years of my life, devoted with an upright
zeal to the public service, the faults of inadequate abilities will
be consigned to oblivion, as myself must soon be, to the mansions
of rest.

* "inculcated" for "recommended."
f as far as.

X Here a large space is found in the draft evidently left for the insertion of
other matter.

§ " probable " for " possible."

Q 38

594 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

Neither ambition nor interest has been the impelling cause of
my actions. I never designedly misused any power confided to
me. The fortune with which I came into office, is not bettered
otherwise than by that improvement in the value of property
which the natural progress and peculiar prosperity of our country
have produced. I retire* with a pure heart, f with undefiled
hands, and with ardent vows for the happiness of a country, the
native soil of myself and progenitors for four generations.

FRANCE.

1796.
There are circumstances which render it too probable, that
;a very delicate state of things is approaching between the United
States and France. When threatened with foreign danger, from
whatever quarter, it is highly necessary that we should be united
at home ; and considering our partiality hitherto for France, it is
necessary towards this union, that we should understand what
has really been the conduct of that country towards us. It is
time for plain truths, which can only be unacceptable to the
hirelings or dupes of that nation.

France, in our revolution war, took part with us. At first
she afforded us secret and rather scanty succors, which wore
more the complexion of a disposition to nourish a temporary
disturbance in the dominions of a rival power, than of an inten-
tion to second a revolution.

The capture of Burgoyne and his army decided the till then
hesitating councils of France, produced the acknowledgment of
our independence, and treaties of commerce and defensive alli-

* without cause for a blush.

f with no alien sentiment to the ardor of those vows for the happiness of his
country, which is so natural to a citizen who sees in it.

JEt. 39.] FRANCE. 595

ance. These again produced the war which ensued between
France and Great Britain.

The co-operation and succor of France after this period was
efficient and liberal. They were extremely useful to our cause,
and no doubt contributed materially to its success.

The primary motives of France for the assistance she gave
us, was obviously to enfeeble a hated and powerful rival, by
breaking in pieces the British empire. A secondary motive was
to extend her relations of commerce in the new world, and to
acquire additional security for her possessions there, by forming
a connection with this country when detached from Great Bri-
tain. To ascribe to her any other motives — to suppose that she
was actuated by friendship towards us, or by a regard for our
particular advantage, is to be ignorant of the springs of action
which invariably regulate the cabinets of princes. He must be
a fool, who can be credulous enough to believe, that a despotic
court aided a popular revolution, from regard to liberty or friend-
ship to the principles of such a revolution. In forming the con-
ditions upon which France lent her aid, she was too politic to
attempt to take any unworthy advantage of our situation. But
they are much mistaken who imagine that she did not take care
to make a good bargain for herself. Without granting to us any
material privilege in any of her external possessions, she secured
in perpetuity a right to participate in our trade, on the foot of
the most favored nation. But what is far more important, she,
in return for the guarantee of our sovereignty and independence,
obtained our guarantee of her West India possessions in every
future defensive war. This may appear at first sight a mutual
and equal advantage, but in its permanent operation it is not so.
The guarantee of our . sovereignty and independence, which is
never likely to be again drawn into question, must hereafter be
essentially nominal; while our guarantee of the West India
possessions must grow into a solid advantage, increasing in im-
portance as we advance in strength— and exposing us often to
the chances of being engaged in wars, in which we may have no
direct interest. However this guarantee may be regarded as
nominal on our part, in this very early stage of our national

596 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 39.

power, it cannot be so in time to come. We shall be able to
afford it with effect, and our faith will oblige us to do so.

But whatever were the motives of France, and though the
conditions of the alliance may be in their permanent tendency
more beneficial to her than to us, it was our duty to be faithful
to the engagements which we contracted with her, and it even
became us, without scanning too rigidly those motives, to yield
ourselves to the impulses of kind and cordial sentiments towards
a power, by which we were succored in so perilous a crisis.

Nor should we ever lightly depart from the line of conduct
which these principles dictate. But they ought not to be carried
so far as to occasion us to shut our eyes against the just causes
of complaint which France has given or may hereafter give us.
They ought not to blind us to the real nature of any instances of
an unfair and unfriendly policy which we have experienced or
may hereafter experience from that country. Let us cherish
faith, justice, and, as far as possible, good will, but let us not be
dupes.

It is certain that in the progress and towards the close of our
revolution war, the views of France, in several important parti-
culars, did not accord with our interests — she manifestly favored
and intrigued to effect the sacrifice of our pretensions on the
Mississippi to Spain. She looked coldly upon our claim to the
privileges we enjoy in the cod fisheries ; and she patronized our
negotiation with Great Britain without the previous acknowledg.
merit of our independence : — a conduct which, whatever color of
moderation may be attempted to be given to it, can only be
rationally explained into the desire of leaving us in such a state of
half peace, half hostility with Great Britain, as would necessarily
render us dependent upon France,

Since the peace every careful observer has been convinced
that the policy of the French government has been adverse to
our acquiring internally the consistency of which we were capable — in
other words, a well-constituted and efficient government. Her
agents every where supported, and with too little reserve, that
feeble and anarchical system, the old confederation ; — which had
brought us almost to the last stage of national nothingness, and

jEt. 39.] FRANCE. 597

which remained the theme of their eulogies, when every en-
lightened and virtuous man of this country perceived and ac-
knowledged its radical defects and the necessity of essential
alterations.

The truth of all this, of which no vigilant and unbiased
friend to his country had before the least doubt, has been fully
confirmed to us by the present government of France, which
has formally proclaimed to us and to the world the Machiavellian
conduct of the old governments towards this country ; nor can
we suspect the promulgation to have been the effect of the en-
mity of the new against the old government, for our records and
our own observations assure us that there is no misrepresentation.

This disclosure, which has not sufficiently attracted the atten-
tion of the American people, is very serious and instructive.
Surely it ought to put us upon our guard — to convince us that it
is at least possible the succeeding rulers of France may have
been on some occasions tinctured with a similar spirit. They
ought to remember that the magnanimity and kindness of France
and the former government were as much trumpeted by its parti-
sans among us as are now the magnanimity and kindness of the
present government. What say facts ?

Genet was the first minister sent by the new government to this
country. Are there no marks of a policy in his behavior,

or in his instructions? Did he say to us, or was he instructed to
say to us with frankness and fair-dealing— Americans, France
wishes your co-operation ;— she thinks you bound by your treaty
— or by gratitude — or by affinity of principles to afford it ? Not
a word of all this. The language was— France does not require
your assistance ; she wishes you to pursue what you think your
interest.

What was the conduct? Genet came out with his pocket
full of commissions to arm privateers. Arrived at Charlestown,
before he had an opportunity of sounding our government,
he begins to them, and to fit out privateers from our

ports ;— certain that this was a practice never to be tolerated
by the enemies of France, and that it would infallibly implicate
us in the war, our government mildly signifies to him its dis

598 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 39.

approbation of the measure. He affects to acquiesce, but still
goes on in the same way — very soon in open defiance of the
o-overnment ; — between which and our own citizens he presently
endeavors to introduce jealousy and schism. He sets on foot
intrigues with our southern and western extremes, and attempts
to organize our territory, and to carry on from it military expe-
ditions against the territories of Spain in our neighborhood — a
nation with wjaich we were at peace.

It is impossible to doubt that the end of all this was to drag
us into the war, with the humiliation of being plunged into it
without ever being consulted, and without any volition of our
own.

No government or people could have been more horridly
treated than we were by this foreign agent. Our Executive,
nevertheless, from the strong desire of maintaining good under-
standing with France, forbore to impute to the French govern-
ment the conduct of its agent ; made the personal with
him, and requested his recall. The French government could
not refuse our request without a rupture with us, which at that
time would have been extremely inconvenient for many plain
reasons. The application for the recall accordingly had full suc-
cess ; and the more readily as it arrived shortly after the over-
throw of the party (to which Genet belonged), and thus
afforded another opportunity of exercising vengeance on that
devoted party.

But it were to be very credulous to be persuaded that Genet
acted in this extraordinary manner, from the very beginning,
without the authority of the government by which he was sent ;
and did not the nature of his conduct contain an internal evidence
of the source it could be easily traced in the instructions which he
published. These instructions demonstrate three things, though
the last is couched in very covert terms. 1. That France did
not consider us as bound to aid her in the war. 2. That she
desired to engage us in it, and the principal bribe was to be large
privileges in her West India trade. 3. That if direct negotiation
did not succeed, indirect means were to be taken to entangle us
in it whether so disposed or not. It is not matter of complaint,

yET. 39.] FRANCE. 599

that France should endeavor to engage by fair means our assist-
ance in the war, if she thought it would be useful to her, but it
is just matter of bitter complaint that she should attempt against
our will to ensnare or drive us into it.

Fauchet succeeded Genet. It was a meteor following a comet.
No very marked phenomena distinguish his course. But the little
twinkling appearances which here and there are discernible, indi-
cate the same general in him which governed his predecessor.
The Executive of our country, in consequence of an insurrec-
tion, to which one of them had materially contributed, had pub-
licly arraigned political clubs. Fauchet, in opposition, openly
patronizes them. At the festivals of these clubs he is always a
guest, swallowing toasts full of sedition and hostility to the gov-
ernment. Without examining what is the real tendency of
these clubs, without examining even the policy of what is called
the President's denunciation of them, it was enough for a foreign
minister that the Chief Magistrate of our country had declared
them to be occasions of calamity to it. It was neither friendly
nor decent in a foreign minister after this, to countenance these
institutions. This conduct discovered towards us not only un-
kindness but contempt. There is the more point in it, as this
countenance continued after similar societies had been proscribed
in France; — what were destructive poisons there, were in this
country salutary medicines. But the hostility of the views of
this minister is palpable in that intercepted letter of his, which
unveils the treachery of Randolph. We there learn, that he
pretended to think it was a duty of patriotism to second the
western insurrection ; that he knew and approved of a conspiracy
which was destined to overthrow the administration of our gov-
ernment, even by the most irregular means.

Another revolution of party in France placed Mr. Adet in
the room of Mr. Fauchet. Mr. Adet has been more circumspect
than either of his predecessors — and. perhaps we ought scarcely
to impute it to him as matter of reproach, that he openly seconded
the opposition in Congress to the treaty concluded with Great
Britain. This was a measure of a nature to call forth the
manoeuvres of diplomatic tactics. But if we are wise, we shall

600 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 39.

endeavor to estimate rightly the probable motives of whatever
displeasure France or her agents may have shown at this measure.
Can it be any thing else than a part of the same plan which in-
duced the minister of Louis XVI. to advise us to treat with
Great Britain without the previous acknowledgment of our
Independence ? Can it be any thing else than a part of that
policy which deems it useful to France, that there should perpe-
tually exist between us and Great Britain germs of discord and
quarrel ? Is it not manifest that in the eyes of France the un-
pardonable sin of that treaty is, that it roots up for the present
those germs of discord and quarrel ? To pretend that the treaty
interferes with our engagements with France, is a ridiculous
absurdity — for it expressly excepts them. To say that it estab-
lishes a course of things hurtful to France in her present strug-
gle, is belied by the very course of things since the treaty — all
goes on exactly as it did before.

Those who can justify displeasure in France on this account^
are not Americans, but Frenchmen. They are not fit for being
members of an independent nation, but prepared for the al
state of colonists. If our government could not without the
permission of France terminate its controversies with another
foreign power, and settle with it a treaty of commerce, to endure
three or four years, our boasted independence is a name. We
have only transferred our allegiance ! we are slaves I

THE ANSWEK.

December 6, 1796.
The French republic have, at various times during the pre-
sent war, complained of certain principles and decisions of the
American government, as being violations of its neutrality, or
infractions of the treaty made with France in the year 1778.

Mi. 39.] THE ANSWER. 6(Jl

These complaints were principally made in the year 1793, and
explanations, which till now were deemed satisfactory, were
made by Mr. Jefferson's correspondence, in August of that year.
They are now not only renewed with great exaggeration, but
the French government have directed that it should be done in
the tone of reproach, instead of the language of friendship. The ap-
parent intention of this menacing tone, at this particular time, is
to influence timid minds to vote agreeably to their wishes in the
election of President and Vice-President, and probably with this
view the memorial was published in the newspapers. This is
certainly a practice that must not be permitted. If one foreign
minister is permitted to publish what he pleases to the people, in
the name of his government, every other foreign minister must
be indulged with the same right. What then will be our situation
on the election of a President and Vice-President, when the gov-
ernment is insulted, the persons who administer it traduced, and
the election menaced by public addresses from these intriguing
agents ? Poland, that was once a respectable and powerful na-
tion, but is now a nation no longer, is a melancholy example of
the dangers of foreign influence in the election of a Chief Magis-
trate. Eleven millions of people have lost their independence from
that cause alone. What would have been the conduct of the
French directory, if the American minister had published an
elaborate and inflammatory address to the people of France
against the government, reprobating the conduct of those in
power, and extolling that of the party opposed to them ? They
would have done as the parliament of England did in 1727, when
the emperor's resident presented an insolent memorial to the
king, and published it next day in the newspapers. All parties
concurred in expressing the highest indignation and resentment
at the affront offered to the government by the memorial deliver-
ed by Monsieur Palm, and more particularly at his audacious
manner of appealing from the government to the people, under
the pretext of applying for reparation and redress of supposed
injuries. In consequence of an address from both houses, Mon-
sieur Palm was ordered to quit England immediately. And is it
not necessary that we should adopt some remedy adequate to

602 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 39.

this evil, to avoid those serious consequences which may other-
wise be apprehended from it ?

The conduct of the American government to preserve its
neutrality, has been repeatedly justified by arguments drawn
from the law of nations, and in the application of its principles
they have gone as far, in every instance, and in one particular
instance, farther in favor of France, than the strict rule of neu-
trality would justify. It would therefore answer no valuable
purpose, to state the same principles, and deduce the same conse-
quences, in order to justify ourselves on the same ground, that
we have already done : but as the reproaches of the French re-
public are founded on an idea, that our construction and appli-
cation of the law of nations is erroneous, partial, and inimical, it
may be worth while to examine whether we cannot justify our-
selves by the example of the French nation itself. I presume a
better rule of justification against any charge cannot be required,
than the conduct of those who have made it in like cases.

I propose, therefore, to compare the decisions of the American
government, in the several points wherein they have been com-
plained of in Mr. Adet's memorial, with the laws of France on
the same points.

It is asserted that the American government has violated the
17th article of the treaty of 1778, by arresting French privateers
and their prizes ; and that it has exercised shocking persecutions
towards them.

It will be found on an accurate inquiry, that all the prizes
brought in under French commissions, that have been restored,
have been found to be in one or the other of the following des-
criptions :

1. Those captured within a marine league of the shores of the
United States.

2. When the captured vessel was owned, and principally
manned by American citizens.

3. When the capturing vessel was armed in our ports.

As to the jurisdiction exercised by the United States, over
the sea contiguous to its shores, all nations claim and exercise
such a jurisdiction, and all writers admit this claim to be well

jEt. 39.] THE ANSWER. 603

founded : and they have differed in opinion, only as to the dis-
tance to which it may extend. Let us see whether France has
claimed a greater or less extent of dominion over the sea, than
the United States. Valin, the king's advocate at Kochelle, in his
new commentary on the marine laws of France, published first in
1761, and again by approbation in 1776,* after mentioning the
opinions of many different writers on public law on this subject,
says, " as far as the distance of two leagues the sea is the domi-
nion of the sovereign of the neighboring coast ; and that whether
there be soundings there or not." It is proper to observe this
method in favor of states whose coasts are so high that there
are no soundings close to the shore, but this does not prevent the
extension of the dominion of the sea, as well as in respect to juris-
diction as the fisheries, to a greater distance by particular treaties,
or the rule herein before mentioned, which extends dominion as
far as there are soundings, or as far as the reach of a cannon
shot; which is the rule at present universally acknowledged. "The
effect of this dominion," the same author says, "according to the
principles of Puffendorf, which are incontestable, is, that every
sovereign has a right to protect foreign commerce in his domi-
nions, as well as to secure them from insult, by preventing others
from approaching nearer to a certain distance." In extending
our dominion over the sea to one league, we have not extended
it so far, as the example of France and the other powers of Eu-
rope would have justified. They therefore can have no right to
complain of our conduct in this respect.

The second description of cases, which has induced the Ameri-
can government to restore prizes claimed by the French, is when
our citizens have made the capture under a French commission.

The third article of the ordinances of the marine of France
which the commission now given to French privateers requires to
be observed (Valin, vol. 2, 235), is as follows: " We prohibit all
our subjects from taking commissions from foreign kings, princes,
Qr states, to arm vessels for war, and to cruise at sea under their
colors, unless by our permission, on pain of being treated as
pirates." The commentator says these general and indefinite

* Book 5, Title 1.

604 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 39.

prohibitions have no exception. They extend to commissions
taken from friends or allies, as well as neutrals, and those that
are equivocal, and they were considered as necessary consequences
of the laws of neutrality.

" If," says Valin, " the commission of the foreign prince be to
cruise against his enemies who are our allies, or those with whom we
intend to preserve neutrality, it would afford just ground of com-
plaint on their part, and might lead to a rupture." The rule
extends as well to subjects domiciliated as not domiciliated in the
kingdom, and foreign countries ; " for Frenchmen are not the less
Frenchmen, for having gone to live in foreign countries." If
France may rightfully prohibit her citizens from accepting foreign
commissions to make prize of the property of her friends, why
should the United States be reproached for exercising a similar
right? A necessary consequence of this wise and just prohibi-
tion is, that all prizes taken contrary to it should be restored
with damages to the party injured.

The third description of prizes restored, is where they have
been fitted and armed in the ports of the United States.

I find no direct, positive provision by the marine laws of
France, prohibiting this ; but the whole tenor of those laws sup-
pose that vessels of war are armed in the ports of the sovereign
who gives the commission. French privateers must not only fit
out in a French port, but are bound to bring all prizes made by
them into some particular port or ports expressed in their com-
missions. (Valin, vol. 2, 276.) And it is certain that the king of
France, previous to his alliance with the United States, delivered
up some American prizes to the English, because the capturing
vessel had been armed in a French port.

Mr. Adet's memorial charges that the English have been per-
mitted to arm their vessels, and bring their prizes into our ports.
As to this charge, the fact is simply denied. In the cases mention-
ed, the vessels said to have taken in guns for their defence, were
gone before he made his representation ; yet he complained, and
the government did nothing. I ask what could they have done?
Mr. Adet will answer, they might have declared war against
Great Britain : and it is certain this was the only remedy that

Mt. 39.] THE ANSWER. 605

remained in such a case : but neither our interest nor our duty
would have permitted us to have adopted it. Our interest did
not permit us to give up our neutrality, and engage in a foreign
war, the event of which would have produced many and certain
evils, and could not by any possibility have produced any good; —
and it was contrary to every principle by which a just nation
would desire to act, to have made war on a whole people because
one or two of them had clandestinely taken arms on board for
their defence, in one of our ports, without the knowledge of their
government or of ours.

The memorial complains that we have infringed the 17th
article of the treaty of 1778, by restraining the prohibition
therein contained only to the ships of war and privateers of
their enemies, who should come into our ports with their prizes.

The literal sense of the 17th article, is, that no armed ship
who shall have made prizes from the French people, shall receive
an asylum in our ports. The 22d article says that no privateer,
fitted under a commission of the enemy of either, shall have
asylum in the ports of the others. Neither of these articles says
any thing of prizes. The literal application of them therefore
would exclude the capturing vessels, but give admission to their
prizes : which would never have been the intention of the
parties. The law of nations expressly adopted by France, re-
lative to the right of asylum, may illustrate these articles of
the treaty. Ord. Louis XIV., art XIV., declares, " that no
prizes made by captains under a foreign commission, shall re-
main in our ports longer than twenty-four hours, unless de-
tained by bad weather, or unless the prize have been made from
our enemies." But this article, says Valin, is only applicable
to prizes carried into a neutral port, " and not at all to armed
vessels, whether neutrals or allies, who have taken refuge there,
without prizes, either to escape the pursuit of enemies, or for any
other cause. They may in this case remain as long as they
please." By the law of neutrality, simply, French prizes could
only have remained twenty-four hours in our ports, but by the
treaty they have obtained the privilege of remaining as long
as they please. This privilege has not only been allowed them

606 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 39.

in its fullest extent, but we had gone a step farther, and as a
favor permitted them to sell their prizes, which neither the
treaty nor the law of nations required ; and which was of more
importance than all the rest put together. This favor, as favors
generally are, is now claimed as a right, and the withholding
is considered as an injury. Let us see what the ordinances of
the French marine have said on this point. Ord. Louis XIV.,
Tit. Prizes, Art. XIV. "If in the prizes brought into our ports
by vessels armed under a foreign commission, there be any mer-
chandises belonging to our subjects, or allies, those belonging to
our subjects shall be restored, and the rest shall not he put into any
storehouses, or be purchased by any person under any pretext whatsoever '.''
"And all this," says Valin, "is founded on the law of neutrality.
By the treaty of Utrecht, Louis XIY. and his grandson the
king of Spain, agreed mutually to permit the prizes made by
one to be brought in, and sold in the ports of the other. But
this, the same author says, was only a particular arrangement,
so much the less to be proposed for a general rule, as the two
nations had given up the duties on prize goods sold in their
dominions, which however did not last long, on account of the
abuses to which it gave rise. Abuses similar, I presume, to
those to which the same permission gave rise in this country.
The next ground of complaint is the British treaty and its
consequences. This treaty is said to deprive France of all the
advantages stipulated in a preceding treaty, and this is done by
an abandonment of the modern law of nations.

If we may credit the declaration of the King of France,
there were no exclusive advantages stipulated for France in
that treaty. His ambassador delivered a paper to the British
Court, dated the 18th of March, 1778, wherein, after announc-
ing the treaty between France and the United States, he says :
" His majesty declares at the same time, that the contracting
parties have paid great attention not to stipulate any exclusive
advantages in favor of the French nation : and that the United States
have reserved the liberty of treating with every other nation ivhatever,
upon the same footing of equality and reciprocity.

The injury supposed to have resulted from an abandonment

At. 39.] THE ANSWER. 607

of the modern public law, assumes two propositions, neither
of which is true : 1st. That neutral ships make neutral pro-
perty : 2d. That materials for building ships are not among
the articles considered as contraband of war. By the marine
laws of France, Eeg. Dec. 1744, Art. 5, it is directed, that " if
there are found on board of neutral vessels, of whatever nation
they may be, merchandises or effects, belonging to the enemies
of his majesty, they shall be good prize, even though they are
not of the growth or manufacture of the enemy's country,
but the vessels shall be released." Previous to this regulation,
and contrary to the law of nations, as Valin acknowledges,
if either the ship or the cargo, or any part of it, was enemy's
property, the whole was confiscated by the laws of France. And
at this day neutral property on board of enemy's ships is, by
the same laws, liable to confiscation.

As to the contraband of war, timber is enumerated among
the articles that are so, by Vattel, Lib. iii., chap. vii. ; but Valin
is much more particular, vol. 2, 264. "In the treaty of com-
merce concluded with the king of Denmark, the 23d of August,
1724, pitch and tar were declared contraband, as also rosin, sail-
cloth, hemp, cordage, masts and timber, for the building of ships.
There would have been, therefore, no reason to complain of the
conduct of the English, if they had not violated particular trea-
ties ; for of right (de droit) these things are contraband at present, and
have been so, since the beginning of this century, which was not the
case formerly -." By the modern law of nations, expressly adopted
by France, enemies' property, on board neutral ships, is good
prize ; and by the same law, the number of contraband articles
has been increased so as to include the materials for ship-build-
ing. All the situations were probably foreseen, in which the
treaty might operate favorably or unfavorably for France at the
time it was made. It might have been stipulated that materials
for ship-building should be deemed contraband, instead of de-
claring that they should not ; or, that the United States should
not enter into any treaty in which they should be made so.
Neither of these being the case, there is no ground of complaint,
except that the consequence is inconvenient, at present, to France,

60S HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 39.

and the belligerent powers allied to her. If timber and naval
stores are contraband by the law of nations, to declare them to
be so by a treaty cannot be considered as a privilege granted to
one nation, or an injury to any other. The French nation will not
persist in asserting, that because the exercise of rights which she
has claimed as legitimate on former occasions, becomes inconve-
nient when exercised by others, she may therefore refuse to ac-
knowledge and respect them. This would be the language of an
haughty despot, in a conquered country, not of justice, honor,
and good faith, from one friend to another.

It is said that the 18th article of the treaty with Great Bri-
tain, suspends all the commercial relations between the United
States and France, by preventing the supplies looked for by
France from this country.

This article has not introduced any new case, in which pro-
visions may be contraband. It only alters the consequence re-
sulting from a seizure of them, when they are so. Valin (vol. 2,
264) says, " By our law and the law of nations, provisions are
not prohibited, except to places besieged or blockaded? The article
complained of says explicitly, that when provisions, and other
articles not generally contraband, are become so, according to the
existing law of nations, and shall, for that reason, be seized, they
shall not be confiscated, but the owner shall be completely in-
demnified, and receive besides a reasonable mercantile profit.
This principle operated as an encouragement for American ves-
sels to seek the French markets, by insuring them against loss,
if they happened in any instance to be interrupted in the voy-
age. France, I presume, might consider our vessels bound with
provisions to a place besieged or blockaded, liable to seizure,
after due notice of the fact ; if instead of this, they contend for
the privilege of paying for them according to the terms of the
treaty with Great Britain, I suppose it will not be denied to
them. But if, under pretence that a vessel is bound to a besieged
or blockaded port, when she is not, either France or Great Bri-
tain should seize or detain her, it is an injury not authorized by
the treaty or the law of nations. This is what both nations have
done, when their interests or necessities required it — sometimes

Mt. 39.] THE ANSWER. 000

with, and often without any apology ; and what they will often
continue to do, I fear, as long as they know we cannot punish
them for it.

These injuries are said to have been received while every
other object around reminds us of the tyranny of Britain and the
generous assistance of France, during the American war.

The generosity of France and the magnitude of the United
States have been often suggested by some of our own citizens,
and we are now reproached with it by France herself. Gratitude
is due for favors received ; and this virtue may exist among na-
tions as well as among individuals ; but the motive of the bene-
fit must be solely the advantage of the party on whom it was
conferred, else it ceases to be a favor. There is positive proof
that France did not enter into the alliance with us in 1778, for
our advantage, but for her own. The whole course of the inves-
tigation, as well as a positive knowledge of the fact, proves this.
She resisted all of our solicitations for effectual assistance for
war three years ; and rose in her demand during the campaign
of 1777, when our affairs presented the most threatening aspect.
Memorials were presented in August and September of that
year, while General Burgoyne's army arrived in December; fear-
ing we might be able to do the business without them, the French
court began to change its tone. In January the British minister
gave notice in the House of Commons that he meant to propose
terms of accommodation with America. The French ministry
on the arrival of this intelligence in France, immediately pressed
the conclusion of the treaty which they had resisted for three
years, and proposed terms much more favorable for us than
those our commissioner had offered, and they had refused three
months before. The treaty was signed on the 8th February. I
perceive no generosity in all this. They did then, as we have
done now, and as every discerning nation will do — they regarded
only their own interest and advantage, and not that of any other
nation. In the interval between the declaration of indepen-
dence and the alliance with France, that court sometimes ordered
away our privateers, and sometimes restored their prizes. They
refused to receive an ambassador or acknowledge our indepen-
G 39

610 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 39.

dence ; all of which was for fear of bringing France prematurely
into the war. The fact is, that the French spoke of very differ-
ent terms, as the condition of their assistance, before the capture
of Burgoyne, from those actually agreed on afterwards. There
can be no doubt that our success on that occasion, and the dis-
position it appeared to have produced in the British ministry, were
the immediate causes of that alliance. It was certainly the in-
terest of the French to unite with America in the war against
Great Britain. They therefore acted right in doing this at last,
though with too much refinement in putting it off so long, but it
is not the interest of the United States to be engaged in any war
whatsoever — much less do they desire to imbrue their hands in
the blood of one nation to gratify the hatred, or serve the inter-
est of another. We have acted right hitherto, in laying it down
as a principle not to suffer ourselves to be drawn into the wars
of Europe ; and if we must have a war, I hope it will be for re-
fusing to depart from that principle.

Our government has acted with firmness, consistency, and
moderation, in repelling the unjust pretensions of the belligerent
powers, as far as reason and argument could have weight. If
it has not attempted in every instance, to preserve our rights by
force, wherein the remedy would have been worse than the dis-
ease, they have not yielded them by concession, in any instance.
Into whatsoever hands the administration of the government
may now come, they are called on by the suggestions of a wise
policy, and the voice of their country, to pursue the same gene-
ral line of conduct, that has been hitherto pursued, without yield-
ing to the violence of party on either side. They will then be
sure of the approbation and support of the most virtuous, which
it is to be hoped are the most numerous of all parties. On the
contrary, if, departing from these principles, they unnecessarily
involve their country in the horrors of war, they will meet the
merited execration of good men, and in the end the punishment
justly due to such conduct from an injured people.

Americanus.

JEt. 39.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. Gil

PART OF WASHINGTON'S SPEECH TO CONGRESS.

First Draft by Hamilton.

December 7th, 1796.

That, among the objects of labor and industry, agriculture,
considered with reference either to individual or national welfare.
is first in importance, may safely be affirmed, without derogating
from the just and real value of any other branch. It is, indeed,
the best basis of the prosperity of every other. In proportion as
nations progress in population and other circumstances of ma-
turity, this truth forces itself more and more upon the conviction
of rulers, and makes the cultivation of the soil more and more
an object of public patronage and care. Institutions for pro-
moting it sooner or later grow up, supported by the public purse
— and the full fruits of them, when judiciously conceived and
directed, have fully justified the undertaking.

Among these, none have been found of greater utility than
Boards, composed of proper characters, charged with collecting
and communicating information, and enabled to stimulate enter-
prise and experiment by premiums and honorary rewards.
These have been found very cheap instruments of imrn
benefits. They serve to excite a general spirit of discovery and
improvement, to stimulate invention, to excite new and useful
experiments — and accumulating in one centre the skill and im-
provement of every part of the nation, they spread it thence ovei
the whole nation, at the same time promoting new discovery, and
diffusing generally, the knowledge of all the discoveries which
are made.

In the United States, hitherto, no such institution has been
essayed, though perhaps no country has stronger motives to it.

Agriculture among us is certainly in a very imperfect state.
In much of those parts where there have been early settlements
the soil, impoverished by an unskilful tillage, yields but a scanty
reward for the labor bestowed upon it, and leaves its possessors

612 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 39.

under strong temptation to abandon it, and emigrate to distant
regions, more fertile, because they are newer, and have not yet
been exhausted by an unskilful use. This is every way an evil.
The undue dislocation of our population from this cause, pro-
motes neither the strength, the opulence, nor the happiness of
our country. It strongly admonishes our national councils to
apply as far as may be practical, by natural and salutary means,
an adequate remedy. Nothing appears to be so unexceptionable,
and likely to be more efficacious, than the institution of a Board
of Agriculture, with the views I have mentioned, and with a
moderate fund towards executing them. After mature reflection,
I am persuaded it is difficult to render our country a more
precious and general service, than by such an institution.

I will, however, observe, that if it be thought expedient, the
objects of the Board may be still more comprehensive. It may
embrace the encouragement of the mechanic and manufacturing
arts by means analogous to those for the improvement of agri-
culture, and with an eye to the introduction, from abroad, of
useful machinery, &c. Or there may be separate Boards, one
charged with one object, the other with the other.

I have, heretofore, suggested the expediency of establishing
a National University, and a Military Academy. The vast
utility of both these measures presses so seriously and so con-
stantly upon my mind, that I cannot forbear with earnestness to
repeat the recommendation.

The assembly to which I address myself, will not doubt that
the extension of science and knowledge is an object primarily
interesting to our national welfare. To effect this, is most
naturally the care of the particular local jurisdictions into which
our country is subdivided, as far as regards those branches of
instruction which ought to be universally diffused, and it gives
pleasure to observe that new progress is continually making in
the means employed for this end. But, can it be doubted that
the general government would with peculiar propriety occupy
itself in affording nutriment to those higher branches of science,
which, though not within the reach of general acquisition, are in
their consequences and relations productive of general advantage ?

JEt. 39.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. 613

Or can it be doubted that this great object would be materially
advanced by a university erected on that broad basis to which
the national resources are most adequate, and so liberally en-
dowed, as to command the ablest professors in the several
branches of liberal knowledge ? It is true, and to the honor of
our country, that it offers many colleges and academics, highly
respectable and useful — but the funds upon which they are es-
tablished are too narrow to permit any of them to be an ade-
quate substitute for such an institution as is contemplated, and
to which they would be excellent auxiliaries. Amongst the
motives to such an institution, the assimilation of the principles,
opinions, manners, and habits of our countrymen, by drawing
from all quarters our youth to participate in a common education,
well deserves the attention of government. To render the peo-
ple of this country as homogeneous as possible, must tend as
much as any other circumstance to the permanency of their
union and prosperity.

The eligibleness of a military academy depends on that evi-
dent maxim of policy, which requires every nation to be prepared
for war, while cultivating peace, and warns it against suffering
the military spirit and military knowledge wholly to decay.
However particular instances, superficially viewed, may seem
exceptions, it will not be doubted by any who have attentively
considered the subject, that the military art is of a complicated
and comprehensive nature; that it demands much previous
study, as well as practice, and that the possession of it in its
most improved state, is always of vast importance to the security
of a nation. It ought, therefore, to be a principal care of every
government, however pacific its general policy, to preserve and
cultivate— indeed, in proportion as the policy of a country is
pacific, and it is little liable to be called to practice the rules of
the military art, does it become the duty of the government to
take care, by proper institutions, that it b ■ not lost. A military
academy instituted on proper principles, would serve to secure
to our country, though within a narrow sphere, a solid fund of
military information which would always be ready for national
emergencies, and would facilitate the diffusion of military know-
ledge as those emergencies might require.

614 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 39.

A systematic plan for the creation of a moderate navy appears
to me recommended by very weighty considerations. An active
external commerce demands a naval power to protect it, besides
the dangers from wars, in which a state is a party. It is a truth,
which our own experience has confirmed, that the most equitable
and sincere neutrality is not sufficient to exempt a state from
the depredations of other nations at war with each other. It is
essential to induce them to respect that neutrality, that there
shall be an organized force ready to vindicate the national flag.
This may even prevent the necessity of going into war by dis-
couraging from those insults and infractions of right, which some-
times proceed to an extreme that leaves no alternative. The
United States abound in materials. Their commerce, fast in-
creasing, must proportionably augment the number of their sea-
men, and give us rapidly the means of a naval power, respect-
able, if not great. Our relative situation, likewise, for obvious
reasons, would render a moderate force very influential, more so,
perhaps, than a much greater in the hands of any other power.
It is submitted as well deserving consideration, whether it will
not be prudent immediately and gradually to provide and lay up
magazines of ship-timber, and to build and equip annually, one
or more ships of force, as the development of resources shall ren-
der convenient and practicable, so that a future war in Europe,
if we escape the present storm, may not find our commerce in
the defenceless situation in which the present found it.

There is a subject which has dwelt long and much upon my
mind, which I cannot omit this opportunity of suggesting. It is
the compensation to our public officers, especially those in the
most important stations. Every man acquainted with the ex-
pense, even of the most frugal plan of living in our great cities,
must be sensible of their inadequateness. The impolicy of such
defective provisions seems not to have been sufficiently weighed.

No plan of governing is well founded, which does not regard
man as a compound of selfish and virtuous passions. To expect
him to be wholly guided by the latter, would be as great an
error as to suppose him wholly destitute of them. Hence the
necessity of adequate rewards for those services of which the

JEt. 39.] WASHINGTON'S SPEECH. G15

public stand in need. Without them, the affairs of a nation are
likely to get sooner or later into incompetent or unfaithful hands.
If their own private wealth is to supply in the candidates for
public office the deficiency of public liberality, then the sphere
of those who can be candidates, especially in a country like ours,
is much narrowed, and the chance of a choice of able as well as
upright men, much lessened. Besides that, it would be repug-
nant to the first principles of our government to exclude men
from the public trusts, because their talents and virtues, however
conspicuous, are unaccompanied by wealth. If the rewards of the
government are scanty, those who have talents without wealth,
and are too virtuous to abuse their stations, cannot accept public
offices without a sacrifice of interest ; which, in ordinary times,
may hardly be justified by their duty to themselves and their
families. If they have talents without virtue, they may, indeed,
accept offices to make a dishonest and improper use of them.
The tendency then is to transfer the management of public
affairs to wealthy, but incapable hands, or to hands which, if
capable, are as destitute of integrity as of wealth. For a time,
particular circumstances may prevent such a course of things, and
hitherto the inference has not been verified in our experience.
But it is not the less probable, that time will prove it to be well
founded. In some governments men have many allurements to
office, exclusive of pecuniary rewards — but from the nature of
our government, pecuniary reward is the only aliment to the
interested passions which public men who are not vicious can
expect. If, then, it be essential to the prosperous course of every
government, that it shall be able to command the services of its
most able and most virtuous citizens of every class, it follow?)
that the compensations which our government allows, ought to
be revised and materially increased. The character and success
of republican government appear absolutely to depend on this
policy.

Congress have repeatedly directed their attention to the
encouragement of manufactures, and have no doubt promoted
them in several branches. The object is of too much impor-
tance not to assure a continance of their efforts in every way

616 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 40.

which shall appear proper, and conducive to the end. But in
the present state of our country, we cannot expect that our
progress, in some essential branches, will be as expeditious as the
public welfare demands, — particularly in reference to security and
defence in time of war. This reflection is the less pleasing when
it is remembered how large a proportion of our supply the
course of our trade derives from a single nation. It appears
very desirable, that at least, with a view to security and de-
fence, some measures more efficacious than have heretofore been
adopted, should be taken. As a general rule, manufactories
carried on upon public account are to be avoided. But every
general rule may admit of exceptions. Where the state of
things in our country leaves little expectation that certain
branches of manufacture will, for a great length time, be suffi-
ciently cultivated — when these are of a nature to be essential to
the furnishing and equipping of the troops and ships of war
of which we stand in need — are not establishments on the pub-
lic account, to the extent of the public demand for supply, recom-
mended by very strong considerations of national policy?
Ought our country to be dependent in such cases upon foreign
supply, precarious because liable to be interrupted ?

THE WARNING.

Jan. 27, 1797.
There are appearances too strong not to excite apprehension
that the affairs of this country are drawing fast to an eventful
crisis. Various circumstances, daily unfolding themselves,
authorize a conclusion that France has adopted a system of con-
duct towards the neutral maritime nations generally, which
amounts to little less than actual hostility. I mean the total in-

jEt. 40.] THE WARNING. 617

terruption of their trade with the ports of her enemies ; a preten-
sion so violent, and at the same time so oppressive, humiliating,
and ruinous to them, that thej cannot submit to it, without not only
the complete sacrifice of their commerce, but their absolute deg-
radation from the rank of sovereign and independent states.

It seems to have become latterly a primary object in the
policy of France to make the principal attack upon Great Bri-
tain through her commerce, in order, by extinguishing the
sources of her revenue and credit, to disable her from continu-
ing the war, and compel her to accept any conditions of peace
which her antagonist may think fit to prescribe. It is to this
plan we are to attribute the unjustifiable treatment of Tuscany,
in the seizure of Leghorn, and shutting her ports against the
English, contrary to the will of her own government. The
same plan has dictated the attempts which are understood to
have been made to oblige Naples to exclude Great Britain from
her ports during the present war. And there have been indi-
cations of a design to effect a similar restraint on all the Italian
states, and expel the British trade wholly from the Mediter-
ranean. The same object of wounding Great Britain through
her commerce, has been promoted by the war into which Spain
has been drawn, and may be considered as the principal advan-
tage expected from it ; while it is likewise alleged to be the
intention to force Portugal to suspend her commercial relations
with Great Britain. The late decree forbidding the impor-
tation of British manufactures into France, is a further
proof of the eagerness with which the policy of destroying the
British commerce is pursued; since it is presumable, from the
derangement of French manufactures by the war, that there
must have been a convenience in the supply which that impor-
tation has afforded.

It is obviously to the same origin that we are to trace the
decree lately communicated by the French minister to our gov-
ernment, with respect to the intended treatment of the trade of
neutrals, and the spoliations which ours has for some time past
suffered. While neutral nations were permitted to enjoy se-
curely their rights, besides the direct commerce between them

618 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. -10.

and the British dominions, the commerce of Great Britain would
be carried on in neutral bottoms, even with the countries where
it was denied access in British bottoms. It follows, that the
abridgment of neutral rights is essential to the scheme of de-
stroying the British commerce. And here we find the true
solution of those unfriendly proceedings, on the part of France
towards this country, which are hypocritically charged to the
account of the treaty with Great Britain, and other acts of pre-
tended infidelity in our government.

Did we need a confirmation of this truth, we should find it in
the intelligence lately received from Cadiz. We are informed,
through a respectable channel,* that Danish and Swedish, as well
as American vessels, carried into that port by French cruisers,
have, with their cargoes, been condemned and confiscated by the
French consul or tribunal there, on the declared principle of in-
tercepting the trade of neutrals with the ports of the enemies of
France. This indiscriminate spoliation of the commerce of neu-
tral powers is a clear proof that France is actuated, not by par-
ticular causes of discontent given by our government, but by a
general plan of policy.

The practice upon the decree is a comment much broader
than the text. The decree purports that France would observe
towards neutrals the same conduct which they permitted her
enemies to observe towards them. But the practice goes a great
deal further. None of the enemies of France, even at the height
of their power and presumption, ever pretended totally to cut off
the trade of neutrals with her ports. This is a pretension reserv-
ed for her, to increase the catalogue of extraordinary examples,
of which her revolution has been so fruitful.

The allegations of discontent with this country are evidently
a mere coloring to the intended violation of its rights, by treaty
as well as by the laws of nations. Some pretext was necessary,
and this has been seized. It will probably appear hereafter that
Denmark and Sweden have been mocked with a similar tale of

* Mr. Ignardi, our Consul at Cadiz, lately arrived, who mentioned the fact as here
stated, adding, without reserve, that the principle above mentioned is avowed in
the correspondence of the French Consul at Cadiz.

Mt.40.] the warning. 619

grievances. It is, indeed, already understood that Sweden, out-
raged in the person of her representative, has been obliged to go
the length of withdrawing her minister from Paris.

The complaints of France may be regarded principally as
weapons furnished to her adherents to defend her cause, not-
withstanding the blows she inflicts. Her aim has been, in every
instance, to seduce the people from their government, and, by
dividing, to conquer and oppress. Hitherto, happily, the potent
spells of this political sorcery have, in most countries, been coun-
teracted and dissipated by the sacred flame of patriotism ! One
melancholy exception serves as a warning to the rest of mankind,
to shun the fatal snare. It is, nevertheless, humiliating, that
there are men among us depraved enough to make use of the
arms she has furnished in her service, and to vindicate her ag-
gressions as the effects of a just resentment, provoked by the
ill conduct of our government. But the artifice will not suc-
ceed. The eyes of the people of this country are, every day,
more and more opened to the true character of the politics of
France ; and the period is fast approaching when it will be seen
in all its intrinsic deformity.

The desire of a power at war to destroy the commerce of its
enemy, is a natural effect of the state of war, and while exercised
within bounds, consistent with the rights of nations who are not
engaged in the contest, is entirely justifiable; but when it mani-
festly overleaps these bounds, and indulges in palpable violations
of neutral rights, without even the color of justification in the
usages of war, it becomes an intolerable tyranny, wounds the
sovereignty of nations, and calls them to resistance by every
motive of self-preservation and self'respect.

The conduct of France, from the commencement of her suc-
cesses, has, by gradual developments, betrayed a spirit of univer-
sal domination ; an opinion that she had a right to be the legis-
latrix of nations ; that they are all bound to submit to her
mandates, to take from her their moral, political, and religious
creeds ; that her plastic and regenerating hand is to mould them
into whatever shape she thinks fit ; and that her interest is to be
the sole measure of the rights of the rest of the world. The

620 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

specious pretence of enlightening mankind, and reforming their
civil institutions, is the varnish to the real design of subju-
gating them. The vast projects of a Louis XIV. dwindle into
insignificance compared with the more gigantic schemes of his
republican successors.

Men, well informed and unprejudiced, early discovered the
symptoms of this spirit. Eeasoning from human nature, they
foresaw its growth with success ; that from the love of dominion,
inherent in the heart of man, the rulers of the most powerful
nation in the world, whether a Committee of Safety or a Direc-
tory, will for ever aim at an undue empire over other nations ;
and that this disposition, inflamed as it was by enthusiasm, if
encouraged by a continuation of success, would be apt to exhibit
itself, during the course of the French revolution, in excesses of
which there has been no example since the days of Eoman
greatness.

Every day confirms the justice of that anticipation. It is
now indispensable that the disagreeable and menacing truth
should be exposed in full day to the people of America ; that
they should contemplate it seriously, and prepare their minds for
extremities, which nothing short of abject submission may be
able to avert. This will serve them as an armor against the
machinations of traitorous men, who may wish to make them
instruments of the ambition of a foreign power, to persuade them
to concur in forging chains for mankind, and to accept, as their
award, the despicable privilege of wearing them a day later than
others.

Already in certain circles is heard the debasing doctrine, that
France is determined to reduce us to the alternative of war with
her enemies, or war with herself, and, that it is our interest and
safety to elect the former.

There was a time when it was believed that a similar alterna-
tive would be imposed by Great Britain. At this crisis there
was but one sentiment. The firmest friends of moderation and
peace, no less than the noisiest partisans of violence and war, re-
solved to elect war with that power which should drive us to
the election. This resolution was the dictate of morality and

Mt. 40.] THE WARNING. G21

honor, of a just regard to national dignity and independence. If
any consideration, in any situation, should degrade us into a
different resolution, we, that instant, shake hands with crime
and infamy : we descend from the high ground of an independent
people, and stoop to the ignominious level of vassals. I trust there
are few Americans who would not cheerfully encounter the worst
evils of a contest with any nation on earth, rather than subscribe
to so shameful an abdication of their rank as men and citizens.

A M ERIC US.

II.

February 7, 1797.

Independent of the commands of honor, the coolest calcula-
tions of interest forbid our becoming the instruments of the
ambition of France, by associating with her in the war. The
question is no longer the establishment of liberty on the basis of
republican government. This point the enemies of France have
ceased to dispute. The question now is whether she shall be
aggrandized by new acquisitions, and her enemies reduced by
dismemberments, to a degree which may render her the mistress
of Europe, and consequently in a great measure of America.
This is truly the remaining subject of contention.

They who understood the real strength and resources of France
before the present war, knew that she was intrinsically the most
powerful nation of Europe. The incidents of the war have dis-
played this fact in a manner which is the astonishment of the
world. If France can finally realize her present plan of aggran-
dizement, she will attain to a degree of greatness and power,
which if not counteracted by internal disorder, will tend to make
her the terror and the scourge of nations. The spirit of modera-
tion in a state of overbearing power is a phenomenon which has
not yet appeared, and which no wise man will expect ever to
see. It is certain that a very different spirit has hitherto marked
the career of the new republic ; and it is due to truth to add, that

622 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 40.

the ardent, impetuous, and military genius of the French, affords
perhaps less prospect of such a spirit in them than in any other
people.

'Twere therefore contrary to our true interest to assist in
building up this colossus to the enormous size at which she aims.
'Twere a policy as short-sighted as mean to seek safety in a sub-
serviency to her views as the price of her clemency. This at best
would be but a temporary respite from the rod ; if indeed that
can be called a respite, which is of itself the sacrifice of a real to
a nominal independence.

These reflections are not designed to rouse a spirit of hostility
against France, or to inculcate the idea that we ought of choice to
participate in the war against her. They are intended merely to
fortify the motives of honor, which forbid our stooping to be
compelled, either to submit without resistance to a virtual war on
her part, or to avert her blows by engaging in the war on her
side.

When it was the opinion, that France was defending the cause
of liberty, it was a decisive argument against embarking with
her in the contest, that it would expose us to hazards and evils
infinitely disproportioned to the assistance we could render.
Now that question plainly is, whether France shall give the law
to mankind. The addition of our opposition to her plan could
have too little influence upon the event to justify our willingly
encountering the certain dangers and mischiefs of the enterprise.
'Tis our true policy to remain at peace, if we can, to negotiate
our subjects of complaint as long as they shall be at all negotia-
ble to defer and

When the indiscriminate seizure of our vessels by British
cruisers, under the order of the sixth of November, 1793, had
brought our affairs with Great Britain to a crisis, which led to
the measure of sending a special envoy to that country to obtain
relief and reparation, it was well understood that the issue of
that mission was to determine the question of peace or war be-
tween the two nations. In like manner, it is to be expected that
our Executive will make a solemn and final appeal to the justice
and interest of France, will insist in mild, but explicit terms on

^Et. 40.] THE WARNING. fit 3

the renunciation of the pretension to intercept the lawful com-
merce of neutrals with the enemies of France, and the institution
of some equitable mode of ascertaining and retributing the losses
which the exercise of it has inflicted upon our merchants. If
the experiment shall fail, there will be nothing left but to repel
aggression and defend our commerce and independence. The
resolution to do this, will then be imposed on the government by
a painful but irresistible necessity, and it were an outrage to the
American name and character to doubt that the people of the
United States will approve the resolution, and will support it
with a constancy worthy of the justice of their cause, and of the
glory they have heretofore deserved and acquired.

No ! let this never be doubted ! the servile minions of France
— those who have no sensibility to injury but when it comes
from Great Britain, who are unconscious of any rights to be pro-
tected against France ; who, at a moment when the public safety
mcre than ever demands a strict union between the people and
their government, traitorously labor to detach them from it, and
to turn against the government, for pretended faults, the resent-
ment which the real oppressions of France ought to inspire ; —
these wretched men will discover in the end, that they are as insig-
nificant as they are unprincipled. They will find that they have
vainly flattered themselves with the co-operation of the great
body of those men with whom the spirit of party has hitherto
associated them. In such an extremity the adventitious discri-
minations of party will be lost in the patriotism and pride of the
American character. Good citizens of every political denomina-
tion will remember that they are Americans ; that when their
country is in danger, the merit or demerit of particular measures
is no longer a question — that it is the duty of all to unite their
efforts to guard the national rights, to avert national humiliation,
and to withstand the imposition of a foreign yoke. The true
and genuine spirit of 1776, not the vile counterfeits of it which
so often disgust our eyes and our ears, will warm every truly
American heart, and light up in it a noble emulation to maiutain
inviolate the rights and unsullied the honor of the American
nation. It will be proved, to the confusion of all false patriots,

624 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 40

that we did not break the fetters of one foreign tyranny to put
on those of another. It will be again proved to the world that
we understand our rights, and have the courage to defend them.
But there is still ground to hope that we shall not be driven
to this disagreeable extremity. The more deliberate calculations
of France will probably rescue us from the present embarrass,
merit. If she perseveres in her plan, she must inevitably add all
the neutral powers to the number of her enemies. How will
this fulfil the purpose of destroying the commerce of Great
Britain ? The commerce of those powers with France will then
entirely cease, and be turned more extensively into the channels
of Great Britain, protected by her navy, with the co-operation of
the maritime force of those powers. The result will be the re-
verse of what is projected by the measure. The commerce and
revenue of Britain will, in all likelihood, be augmented rather
than diminished ; and her arms will receive an important rein-
forcement. Violent and unjust measures commonly defeat their
own purpose. The plan of starving France was of this descrip-
tion, and operated against the views of its projectors. The plan
now adopted by France, of cutting off the trade of neutrals with
her enemies, alike violent and unjust, will no doubt end in simi-
lar disappointment. Let us hope that it will be abandoned, and
that ultimate rupture will be avoided ; but let us also contem-
plate the possibility of the contrary, and prepare our minds
seriously for the unwelcome event.

Americus.

hi.

February 21, 1797.

The Paris accounts inform us, that France has lately exer-
cised towards Genoa an act of atrocious oppression, which is an
additional aud a striking indication of the domineering and pre-
datory spirit by which she is governed. This little republic,
whose territory scarcely extends beyond the walls of her metro-

jEt. 40.] THE WARNING. 625

polis, has been compelled, it seems, to ransom herself from the
talons of France by a contribution of nearly a million of dollars
a large sum for her contracted resources. For this boon, " the
French government engages on its part to renounce all claims
upon Genoa, to forget what has passed during the present war,
and to forbear any future demands." It would appear from this,
that France, to color the odious exaction, besides the pretence of
misconduct towards her in the present war, has not disdained to
resort to the stale and pitiful device of reviving some antiquated
claim upon the country itself. In vain did the signal hazards
encountered by Genoa, to preserve her neutrality, in defiance of
the host of enemies originally leagued against France — in vain
did the character and title of republic plead for a more generous
treatment. The attractions of plunder predominated. The
spirit of rapine, callous to the touch of justice, blind to the evi-
dence of truth, deaf to the voice of entreaty, had marked out,
and devoted the mark. There was no alternative but to com-
pound or perish.

If it be even supposed, though this has never appeared, that
at some period of the war, Genoa may be chargeable with acts
of questionable propriety in relation to France, it is manifest,
that it ought to be attributed to the necessity of a situation
which must have obliged her to temporize a very small and feeble
state, in the midst of so many great conflicting powers, parts of
her territories occupied by armies, which she was unable to op-
pose ; it were a miracle, indeed, if her conduct in every particu-
lar, will bear the test of rigorous scrutiny. But if at any time
the pressure of circumstances may have occasioned some slight
deviation, there is, nevertheless, full evidence of a constant
solicitude on the part of Genoa to maintain, to the utmost of her
ability, a sincere neutrality. It is impossible to forget the glo-
rious stand which she at one time made against the imperious
efforts of Great Britain to force her from her neutral position.
The magnanimous and exemplary fortitude, which she displayed
on that occasion, excited in this country universal admiration, and
must have made a deep impression. 'Tis only to recollect that
instance to be satisfied, that the treatment which she has just
g 40

626 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

experienced from France, merits the indignant execration of
mankind. Unfortunate Genoa! how little didst thou imagine
that thou wert destined so soon to be compelled to purchase thy
safety from the crushing weight of that hand which ought to
have been the first to rise in thy defence !

How fruitful at the same time of instruction to us is this
painful example! The most infatuated partisans of France
cannot but see in it an unequivocal proof of the rapacious and
vindictive policy which dictates her measures. All men must
see in it, that the flagrant injuries which we are now suffering
from her, proceed from a general plan of domination and plun-
der ; from a disposition to prostrate nations at her feet ; to tram-
ple upon their necks; to ravish from them whatever her
avidity or convenience may think fit to dedicate to her own
use.

The last intelligence from France seems to dispel the doubt
whether the depredations in the West Indies may not have
resulted from misapprehension or abuse of the orders of the
French Government. It is now understood to be a fact, that the
cruisers of France every where are authorized to capture and
bring in all vessels bound to the ports of her enemies.

This plan is pregnant with the worst evils, which are to
be dreaded from the declared and unqualified hostility of any
foreign power. If France, after being properly called upon to
renounce it, shall persevere in the measure, there cannot be a
question, but that open war will be preferable to such a state.
By whatever name treachery or pusillanimity may attempt to
disguise it, 'tis in fact war, war of the worst kind, war on one
side. If we can be induced to submit to it longer than is neces-
sary to ascertain that it cannot be averted by negotiation, we
are undone as a people. Whether our determination shall be
to loop up our trade by embargoes, or to permit our commerce
to continue to float an unprotected prey to French cruisers, our
degradation and ruin will be equally complete. The destruction of
our navigation and commerce, the annihilation of our mercantile
capital, the dispersion and loss of our seamen, obliged to emi-
grate for subsistence, the extinction of our revenue, the fall of

.Ex. 40.] THE WARNING. 627

public credit, the stagnation of every species of industry, the
general impoverishment of our citizens, these will be minor evils
in the dreadful catalogue. Some years of security and exertion
might repair them. But the humiliation of the American mind
would be a lasting and a mortal disease jn our social habit.
Mental debasement is the greatest misfortune that can befall a
people. The most pernicious of conquests which a state can
experience is a conquest over that just and elevated sense of
its own rights which inspires a due sensibility to insult and
injury, over that virtuous and generous pride of character,
which prefers any peril or sacrifice to a final submission to op-
pression, and which regards national igaominy as the greatest of
national calamities.

The records of history contain numerous proofs of this
truth. But an appeal to them is unnecessary. Holland and
Italy present to our immediate observation, examples as deci-
sive as they are deplorable. The former within the last ten
years has undergone two revolutions by the intervention of
foreign powers, without even a serious struggle. Mutilated of
precious portions of its territory at home by pretended bene-
factors but real despoilers, its dominions abroad slide into the
possession of its enemies rather as derelicts than as the acqui-
sitions of victory. Its fleets surrender without a blow. Impor-
tant only by the spoils which it offers no less to its friends than
to its enemies, every symptom in its affairs is portentous of
national annihilation. With regard to Italy, 'tis sufficient to
say, that she is debased enough, not even to dare to take
part in a contest, on which, at this moment, her destiny is sus-
pended.

Moderation in every nation is a virtue. In weak or young
nations, it is often wise to take every chance by patience and
address to divert hostility, and in this view to hold parley with
insult and injury — but to capitulate with oppression, or rather
to surrender to it at discretion, is in any nation, that has any
power of resistance, at all times as foolish as it is contemptible.
The honor of a nation is its life. Deliberately to abandon it, is
to commit an act of political suicide. There is treason in the

(528 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

sentiment, avowed in the language of some, and betrayed by
the conduct of others, that we ought to bear any thing from
France, rather than go to war with her. The nation, which
can prefer disgrace to danger is prepared for a Master and de-
serves one.

Americus.

IV.

February 27th, 1797.

The emissaries of France when driven to every other expedi-
ent for extenuating her depredations, have a last refuge in the
example of Great Britain. The treatment which we now receive
from France (say they) is not worse than that which we have re-
ceived from Great Britain. If this apology were founded in fact,
it would still be a miserable subterfuge. For what excuse is it
to France or what consolation to us, that she, our boasted friend
and benefactress, treats us only not worse than a power which is
stigmatized as an envious rival and an implacable foe?

The conduct of Great Britain, appealed to in justification of
France, was admitted by all to be inexcusable. For Gallic fac-
tion thought it so extreme as to call for immediate reprisals.
The real patriots differed from them only in thinking, that an
armed negotiation, to end in reprisals, if unattended with success,
was preferable to immediate hostility. How dare the men, who
at that period were the clamorous champions of our national
dignity, how dare they (I ask) now to stand forth the preachers
not of moderation (for in the propriety of this all unite) but of
tame submission, — of a servility abject enough to love and cherish
the hand which despoils us, to kiss the rod which stings us with
unprovoked lashes ? What logic, what magic, can render inno-
cent or venial in France that which was so criminal and odious in
Great Britain ?

The pretext (we know) of France is, that we have permitted
Great Britain to treat us in the same manner, and her deluded

t£t. 40.] the warning. a 629

or debauched adherents are mean or prostrate enough to re-echo
the excuse.

Let us grant, for argument sake, all that can be pretended on
this subject, namety, that through want of energy in our admin-
istration, or from the opinion which it entertained of the situation
of the country, there has been too much patience under the op-
pressions of Great Britain — Is this really a justification to France?
Is a defect of vigor in the government of one country, or an under-
estimate of its means for repelling injury, a sufficient cause for
another government, lavish in profession of friendship, to imitate
towards it the aggressions which it has suffered from an oppres-
sor? What in private life would be said of that man, who called
himself the friend of another, because the last had too passively
allowed a third, the enemy of both, to wrest from him a portion
of his property, should deduce from this a pretext to strip him of
the remainder ? Has language epithets too severe for such a
character? Is not the guilt of unjust violence in a case like this
aggravated by that of hypocrisy and perfidy ?

But this is not our only reply. The truth is (and a truth we
may boldly proclaim) that we never did tolerate the aggressions
of Great Britain ; that we have steadily resisted them, and re-
sisted them with success. In the respectable attitude of an armed
negotiation, seconded by the self-denying and very influential
measure of an embargo, we sent to demand a revocation of the
orders under which we suffered, and retribution for the losses
which we had sustained. The orders were revoked and the re-
tribution has been stipulated, and the stipulation is in a course of
honorable and liberal execution. The redress of ancient griev-
ances, on the ground of a reciprocity, demanded by every princi-
ple of rectitude, has been superadded to that of more recent ones.

Our flags at this moment proudly wave on the ramparts which
had been so long detained from us ; and Indian butcheries along
the whole extent of our vast frontier have been terminated,
More than this — the redress obtained from Great Britain was a
principal cause of the happy accommodation of our dispute with
Spain, of the recognition of our right to navigate the Mississippi,
and of the establishment of a Southern boundary equal to our

630 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 40.

most sanguine wishes.* These are the fruits (and immense fruits
they are) of a vigorous though temperate resistance to the aggres-
sions of Great Britain.

'Tis therefore in every sense false, that our government has
permitted Great Britain to do as France is now doing. Except here
and there the accidental irregularity of the commander of a par-
ticular ship, there is not one clear right which the law of nations
entitle us to claim, that is not now respected by Great Britain,
and to a degree unusual in the history of the treatment of neutral
nations by great belligerent powers.

It follows that the suggestion on which France bottoms her
ill-treatment of us is a frivolous and a colorless pretext. 'Tis to
confound all just ideas, to consider a temporary forbearance as a
permission or acquiescence — to pretend, above all, to retaliate that
injury after it has passed, has ceased, and has been redressed.
We are bound then to conclude, that our real crime in the eyes
of France is, that we had the temerity to think and to act for our-
selves, and did not plunge headlong into war with Great Britain;
— that the principal streams of our commerce, from the natural
relations of demand and supply, flow through the channels of her
commerce, and that the booty which it offers to rapacity, exceeds
the organized means of protection.

But a country, containing five millions of people, the second
in the number of its seamen, that prime sinew of maritime force,
with a varied industry, and an export of sixty millions, understand-
ing its rights, not deficient in spirit to vindicate them, if compel-
led against its will to exert its strength and resources, will, under
the guidance of faithful and patriotic counsels, be at no loss to
convince its despoilers, that there is as much folly as wickedness
in such a calculation. This reflection ought at once to console
and to animate us; though the remembrance of former friend-

* This consequence was foreseen and foretold. And the prediction is confirmed
by that part of the declaration of war of Spain against Great Britain, which makes
it a charge against the latter, that in the treaty with the United States " she had
no respect or consideration for the known rights of Spain," and in the sudden dis-
appearance after that treaty, of the obstacles which had so long impeded our nego-
tiation with Spain.

jEt. 40.] the warning. 631

ship, and a spirit of virtuous moderation, will induce us still to
wish that there may be some error in appearances — that the views
of France are not as violent and as hostile as they seem to be —
that an amicable explanation may yet dispel the impending
clouds, and brighten the political horizon with a happy reconcil-
iation.

Americus.

V.

March 13th, 1797.

I have asserted, that the conduct of Great Britain towards us
and other neutral powers has been at no period so exceptionable,
as that of France at the present juncture. A more distinct view
of this truth may be useful, which will be assisted by a retro-
spect of the principal acts of violation on both sides.

Though the circumstances were cotemporarily disclosed in all
our newspapers, yet so blind and deaf were we rendered by our
partiality for France, that few among us, till very lately, have
been aware, that the first of those acts is fairly chargeable upon
her. Such, notwithstanding, is the fact. The first in order of
time is a decree of the National Convention of the 9th of May,
1793, which reciting that neutral flags are not respected by the
enemies of France, and enumerating some instances of alleged
violation, proceeds to authorize the vessels of war and cruisers
of France to arrest and conduct into her ports all neutral vessels
which are found laden in whole or in part with provisions belong-
ing to neutrals, or merchandises belonging to the enemies of France,
the latter to be confiscated as prize for the benefit of the captors,
the former to be detained, but paid for according to their value
at the places for which they were destined.

The instances enumerated as the pretext for so direct and
formal an attack upon the rights of neutral powers, except two,
turn upon the pretension to capture goods of an enemy in the
ships of a friend. Of the remaining two, one is the case of an

632 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

American vessel going from Falmouth to St. Maloes with a cargo
of wheat, which the decree states was taken by an English frigate
and carried into Germany, where the agents of the English gov-
ernment detained the cargo, upon a promise to pay the value,
as not being for French account ; the other is the case of some
French passengers going in a Genoese vessel from Cadiz to Bayonne,
who were plundered on the passage by the crew of an English
privateer.

There is no question but that Great Britain, from the begin-
ning of the war, has claimed and exercised the right of capturing
the property of her enemies found in neutral bottoms, and it has
been unanswerably demonstrated, that for this she has the sanc-
tion of the general law of nations. But France, from the exer-
cise of that right by Great Britain, when not forbidden by any
treaty, can certainly derive no justification for the imitation of
the practice, in opposition to the precise and peremptory stipula-
tions of her treaties. Every treaty which established the rule of
i:free ships free goods," must have contemplated the unequal ope-
ration of that rule to the contracting parties, when one was at
peace, the other at war; looking for indemnification to the cor-
respondent of taking friends' property in enemies' ships, and to
the reciprocal effect of the rule when the state of peace and Avar
should be reversed. To make its unequal operation in an exist-
ing war an excuse for disregarding the rule, is therefore a sub-
terfuge for a breach of faith, which hardly seeks to save appear-
ances. France, as she once was, would have blushed to use it.
It is one, among many instances, of the attempts of revolution-
ary France to dogmatize mankind out of its reason, as if she
expected to work a change in the faculties as well as in the ha-
bits and opinions of men.

The case of the American vessel carried to Guernsey is that
of a clear infraction of neutral right. But standing singly, it
was insufficient evidence of a plan of the British government to
pursue the principle. It countenanced suspicion of a secret order
for the purpose; but it did not amount to proof of such an order.
There might have been misapprehension or misrepresentation;
or if neither was the case, the circumstance was resolvable into

JJt. 40.J THE WARNING. 633

the mere irregularity of particular agents — it is unjustifiable to
ascribe to a government, as the result of a premeditated plan,
and to use as the ground of reprisals, a single case of irregularity
happening in a detached portion of the dominions of that gov-
ernment. France was bound to have waited for more full evi-
dence. There was no warrant in a solitary precedent for general
retaliation; even if we could admit the detestable doctrine, that
the injustice of one belligerent power towards neutral nations is
a warrant for similar injustice in another.

The violation of the courtesy of war in the instance of the
French passengers, however brutal in itself, was truly a frivo-
lous pretext for the decree. The frequency of irregular conduct
in the commanders and crews of privateers, even in contempt of
the regulations of their own governments, naturally explains
such a transaction into the cupidity of individuals, and forbids
the imputation of it to their governments. There never was a
war in which similar outrages did not occur in spite of the most
sincere endeavors to prevent them.

The natural and plain conclusion is, that the decree in ques-
tion was a wanton proceeding in the French government, un-
countenanced by the previous conduct either of its enemies, or
of the neutral nations who were destined to punishment for their
faults.

For, the first order of the British government authorizing the
seizure of provisions is dated the sixth of June, 1793, nearly a
month posterior to the French decree. As there is not the least
vestige of any prior order, the presumption is that none ever ex-
isted. If any had existed, the course of things has been such as
to afford a moral certainty that it would have appeared. The
subsequent date of the British order is a strong confirmation of
the argument, that the affair of the vessel carried to Guernsey
was nothing more than a particular irregularity.

The publicity of all the proceedings of the French govern-
ment, and the celerity of commiiLication between Paris and Lon-
don, leave no doubt that the decree of May the 9th, was known
in London before the order of June the 6th. It follows, that
France herself furnished to Great Britain the example and the

634 t HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 40.

pretext for the most odious of the measures with which she is
chargeable ; and, that so far as precedent can justify crime, Great
Britain may find in the conduct of France the vindication of
her own.

An obvious reflection presents itself. How great was the in-
fatuation of France thus to set the example of an interruption of
neutral commerce in provisions, in the freedom of which she was
so much more interested than her adversaries. If the detention
of the cargo at Guernsey was a bait, we cannot but be astonish-
ed at the stupid levity with which it was swallowed.

"We are no less struck with the eager precipitancy with which
France seized the pretext for a formal and systematic invasion of
the rights of neutral powers; equally regardless of the obliga-
tions of treaty and of the injunctions of the laws of nations. The
presumption of the connivance of the neutral power in infrac-
tions of its rights is the only colorable ground for the French
idea of retaliation on the sufferers. Here the yet early stage of
the war and the recency of the facts alleged as motives to the
decree, preclude the supposition of connivance. The unjust
violence of France, consequently, in resorting to retaliation,
stands without the slightest veil. From this prominent trait we
may distinguish, without possibility of mistake, the real charac-
ter of her system.

Americus.

VI.

March 27, 1797.
It has been seen that the government of France has an in-
disputable title to the culpable pre-eminence of having taken
lead in the violation of neutral rights ; and that the first instance
on the part of the British government, is nearly a month pos-
terior to the commencement of the evil by France. But it was
not only posterior, it was also less comprehensive, that of

Mt. 40.] THE WARNING. G35

France extended to all provisions, that of Great Britain to cer-
tain kinds only, corn, flour, and meal.

The French decree, as to the United States, was repeatedly
suspended and revived. As to other neutral nations, it con-
tinued a permanent precedent to sanction the practice of Great
Britain.

This decretal versatility is alone complete evidence of want
of principle. It is the more censurable, because it is ascertained
that it proceeded, in part at least, from a corrupt source. The
sacred power of law-making became the minister and the ac-
complice of private rapine. Decrees exacted by the solemn
obligations of treaty, were sacrificed to sea rovers — to enable
them to enjoy the prey, for the seizure of which they ought
to have been condignly punished.*

The next and most injurious of the acts of Great Britain
is the order of the 6th of November, 1793, which instructs the
commanders of ships of war and privateers to stop, detain, and
carry in for adjudication all ships, laden with the produce of any
French colony, or carrying provisions or other supplies for the
use of such colony. It was under the cover of this order, that
were committed the numerous depredations on our commerce,
which were the immediate cause of sending an envoy to Great
Britain.

The terms of this order were ambiguous, warranting a sus-
picion that they were designed to admit of an oppressive in-
terpretation, and yet to leave room for a disavowal of it.
Whether this was really the case, or whether the order was in
fact misconstrued by the British officers and tribunals in the
West Indies, it is certain that the British government, almost
as soon as their construction was known in England, not only
disclaimed it, but issued a new order, dated the first of Janu-
ary, 1794, revoking that of the sixth of November, and ex-
pressly restraining the power to detain and carry in vessels for

* The report of the Secretary of State mentions (as was known at the time)
that one repeal was effected by the influence of the owners of a privateer, which
had captured the valuable American ship Laurens, to give effect to her condemna-
tion.

636 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 40.

adjudication to such as were laden with the produce of a French
island going from a port in the island to a port in Europe, to
such as were laden with the like produce belonging to subjects of France
whithersoever bound, to such as were laden in whole or in part
with naval or military stores bound to a French island.

This last order obviated in a great measure the mischief of
the former ; and though its principles were in some respect such as
we ought never to recognize, yet were they conformable with
the practice of the principal maritime powers in antecedent
modern wars, especially of France and Great Britain.

These acts comprise the whole of those on which the British
the spoliations have been founded. Taken with all the latitude of
construction adopted by the British officers and courts in the
West Indies, they amount to this, and to no more, — " the seizure
and appropriations of our corn, flour, and meal, going to a French
port, on the condition of paying for them — the seizure and confiscation
of our vessels with their cargoes, when laden with the produce of
a Freyich colony, or in the act of carrying provisions or other
supplies for the use of such colony." Our trade with France
herself, except in corn, flour, and meal, and in contraband ar-
ticles, has in the worst of times remained unmolested, and has
even been allowed to be carried on directly from British ports.

Iniquitous and oppressive as were, the acts of Great Britain,
how very far short do they fall of the more iniquitous and op-
pressive decrees of France: as these have been construed and
acted upon, not only by the colonial administrations, but by
some of its tribunals in Europe ! The decree of the second of
July, 1796, purports in substance, that France will treat the
neutral powers as they have permitted her enemies to treat them.
But under this masked battery the whole of our trade with the
enemies of France has been assailed. The two edicts of her
proconsuls in the West Indies* proclaim the capture of all neu-
tral vessels bound to or coming from English ports, and the
uniform consequence is confiscation of vessel and cargo. We

* Sauthonax and Co., November 27th, 1796. Victor Hugues, 13th Pluviose, 5th
year of the Republic.

iET. 40.] THE WARNING. 637

are now likewise officially informed that a French consular
tribunal at Cadiz has condemned neutral vessels carried in there
on the same broad principle. The evil to us has been magnified
by various aggravations. Our vessels going from one neutral
port to another, even our vessels going from French ports, have
been the victims' of the piratical spirit which dictated those
edicts. Outrage, imprisonment, fetters,- disease and death, in-
flicted or brought upon the commanders and crews of our ves-
sels, cause the bitter cup of our sufferings to overflow, and
leave the imagination at a loss for a parallel without seeking for
it in the ferocious regions of Barbary.

The ambiguity of the British order of November was a
just subject of reproach to its authors. "What shall be said of
the perfidious ambiguity of the French decree of the 2d of July,
1796? When retaliation of the partial injuries which neutral
nations had suffered from the enemies of France was denounced,
who could have dreamt that an universal war on their trade was
meditated? WTho that has a spark of the American in his soul
can refuse his utmost indignation, as well at the manner as at
the matter of this atrocious proceeding? Not only the par-
tisans of France, the advocates for the honor of republican
government, but the friends of human nature, must desire that
the final explanation may reject, as a criminal abuse, the practice
upon that decree, and repair as far as possible the mischiefs
which it has occasioned.

But the treaty with Great Britain, (still exclaim the dupes or
hirelings of France,) that abominable instrument is the Pan-
dora's box from which all our misfortunes issue. When that
instrument was confirmed, who could have expected any thing-
better ?

Peace, ye seduced or seducing babblers ! Had Denmark or
Sweden any share in making that reprobated treaty ? Besides
the refutation of your flimsy pretence, by the ill-treatment in
other shapes of several of the neutral powers in Europe— by the
information from Cadiz of the indiscriminate seizure and con-
demnation of neutral vessels going to or coming from English
ports— do ye not read in the recent accounts from St. Bartholo-

638 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 40

mews, a Swedish island, that not Americans only, that Danes,
that Swedes, that all the neutral nations partake in the common
calamity — alike the prey of a devouring rapacity ? Will ye
still then insist on the barefaced imposture of ascribing to the
treaty grievances which are the mere effects of a spirit of oppres-
sion and rapine ? Read the letter of Mr. Shipwith to Mr. Mon-
roe, dated at Paris, the third of October, 1794, prior to the sig-
nature of the treaty by Mr. Jay. Remember that he is an
American agent, acting under the eye of an American minister,
and that both the minister and the agent are distinguished by a
partiality for France, which exempts them from the suspicion of
exaggerating her misdeeds. What does that letter tell us?
Why, in express terms, that "innumerable embarrassments
and difficulties had for a long time oppressed our commerce in
different ports cf the republic — that if the French government did
not soon remedy the incessant abuses and vexations practised daily
upon our merchants, the trade of the United States with France
must cease." Hence may we learn, that long before our treaty
with Great Britain, the vexations of our trade in the ports of
France were so extreme, as to have become intolerable; — that
" the indiscriminate capture of our vessels at sea by the vessels
of war of the Republic, "* formed only one class of the injuries
which our commerce had sustained : in a word, that the preda-
tory system of France existed before the treaty, and has only of
late acquired greater activity from the cravings of an exhausted
treasury.

The man who, after this mass of evidence, shall be the apolo-
gist of France, and the calumniator of his own government, is
not an American. The choice for him lies between being deemed
a fool, a madman, or a traitor.

* This is also a passage verbatim from Mr. Shipwith's letter— and he produces
a long list of cases to support his assertions.

vEt. 41.] THE STAND. G39

THE STAND.

March 30, 1798.
The enlightened friends of America never saw greater occasion
of disquietude than at the present juncture. Our nation,
through its official organs, has been treated with studied con-
tempt and systematic insult : essential rights of the country are
perseveringly violated, and its independence and liberty event-
ually threatened, by the most flagitious, despotic, and vindictive
government that ever disgraced the annals of mankind; by a
government marchiug with hasty and colossal strides to universal
empire — and in the execution of this hideous project, wielding
with absolute authority the whole physical force of the most en-
thralled, but most powerful nation on earth. In a situation like
this, how great is the cause to lament, how afflicting to every
heart, alive to the honor and interests of its country, to observe,
that distracted and inefficient councils, that a palsied and uncon-
scious state of the public mind, afford too little assurance of
measures adequate either to the urgency of the evils which are
felt, or to the magnitude of the dangers which are in prospect.

When Great Britain attempted to wrest from us those rights,
without which we must have descended from the rank of free-
men, a keen and strong sense of injury and danger ran with
electric swiftness through the breasts of our citizens. The mass
and weight of talents, property, and character, hastened to con-
federate in the public cause. The great body of our community
every where burnt with a holy zeal to defend it, and were eager
to make sacrifices on the altar of their country.

If the nation with which we were called to contend was then
the preponderating power of Europe ; if by her great wealth and
the success of her arms she was in a condition to bias or to awe
the cabinets of princes ; if her fleets covered and domineered
over the ocean, facilitating depredation and invasion ; if the

640 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 40.

penalties of rebellion bung over an unsuccessful contest; if
America was yet in tbe cradle of ber political existence; if ber
population little exceeded two millions; if sbe was without gov-
ernment, without fleets or armies, arsenals, or magazines, with-
out military knowledge ; still her citizens had a just and elevated
sense of her rights, were thoroughly awake to the violence and
injustice of the attack upon them ; saw the conduct of her adver-
sary without apology or extenuation ; and under the impulse of
these impressions and views, determined, with little short of unani-
mity, to brave every hazard in her defence.

This magnanimous spirit was the sure pledge that all the
energies of the country would be exerted to bring all its re-
sources into action ; that whatever was possible would be done
towards effectual opposition ; and this, combined with the im-
mense advantage of distance, warranted the expectation of ulti-
mate success. The event justified the expectation and rewarded
the glorious spirit from which it was derived.

Far different is the picture of our present situation ! The
five tyrants of France, after binding in chains their own country-
men, after prostrating surrounding nations, and vanquishing all
external resistance to the revolutionary despotism at home, with-
out the shadow of necessity, with no discernible motive, other
than to confirm their usurpation and extend the sphere of their
domination abroad — these implacable tyrants obstinately and re-
morselessly persist in prolonging the calamities of mankind, and
seem resolved, as far as they can, to multiply and perpetuate
them. Acting upon the pretension to universal empire, they
have at length in fact, though not in name, decreed war against
all nations not in league with themselves ; and towards this coun-
try in particular, they add to a long train of unprovoked aggres-
sions and affronts the insupportable outrage of refusing to receive
the extraordinary ambassadors whom we sent to endeavor to ap-
pease and conciliate. Thus have they, in regard to us, filled up
the measure of national insult and humiliation. 'Tis not in their
power, unless we are accomplices in the design, to sink us lower.
'Tis only in our own power to do this by an abject submission to
their will.

jEt. 41.] THE STAND. (Ul

But though a knowledge of the true character of the citizens
of this country will not permit it to be suspected that a majority
either in our public councils or in the community can be so
degraded or infatuated ; yet to the firm and independent lover
of his country, there are appearances at once mortifying and
alarming.

Among those who divide our legislative councils, we perceive
hitherto, on the one side, unremitting efforts to justify or excuse
the despots of France, to vilify and discredit our own govern-
ment, of course to destixrv its neces.sary vigor, and to distract the
opinions and to damp the zeal of our citizens — what is worse, to
divert their affections from their own to a foreign country ; on
the other side, we have as yet seen neither expanded views
of our situation, nor measures at all proportioned to the serious-
ness and extent of the danger. While our independence is me-
naced, little more is heard than of guarding our trade, and this
too in very feeble and tremulous accents.

In the community, though in a sounder state than its repre-
sentatives, we discover the vestiges of the same divisions which
enervate our councils. A few — happily, a contemptible few —
prostituted to a foreign enemy, seem willing that their country
should become a province to France. Some of these dare even
to insinuate the treasonable and parricidal sentiment, that in case
of invasion they would join the standard of France. Another
and a more considerable part are weak enough to appear dispos-
ed to sacrifice our commerce, to endure every indignity, and even
to become tributary, rather than to encounter war or to increase
the chances of it ; as if a nation could preserve any rights — could
even retain its freedom — which should conduct itself on the prin-
ciple of passive obedience to injury and outrage; as if the de-
basement of the public mind did not include the debasement of
the individual mind, and the dereliction of whatever adorns or
exalts human nature ; as if there could be any security in com-
pounding with tyranny and injustice by degrading compliances ;
as if submission to the existing violations of our sovereignty
would not invite still greater, and whet the appetite to devour
us by the allurement of an unresisting prey ; as if war was ever
G 41

642 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

to be averted by betraying unequivocally a pusillanimous dread
of it as the greatest of all evils.

This country had doubtless powerful motives to cultivate
peace. It is its policy, for the sake of this object, to go a great
way in yielding secondary interests, and to meet injury with pa-
tience, as long as it could be done without the manifest abandon-
ment of essential rights — without absolute dishonor. But to do
more than this is suicide in any people who have the least
chance of contending with effect. The conduct of our govern-
ment has corresponded with the cogent inducements to a pacific
system. Towards Great Britain it displayed forbearance —
towards France it hath, shown humility. In the case of Great
Britain its moderation was attended with, success. But the inex-
orable arrogance and rapacity of the oppressors of unhappy
France bar all the avenues to reconciliation as well as to redress,
accumulating upon us injury and insult, till there is no choice left
but between resistance and infamy. My countrymen, can ye
hesitate which to prefer ? Can ye consent to taste the brutalizing
cup of disgrace ; to wear the livery of foreign masters ; to put
on the hateful fetters of foreign bondage ? Will it make auy
difference to you, that the badge of your servitude is a cap
rather than an epaulet f Will tyranny be less odious because
five instead of one inflict the rod ? What is there to deter you
from the manful vindication of your rights and your honor ?

With an immense ocean rolling between the United States
and France; with ample materials for ship-building, and a
body of hardy seamen more numerous and more expert than
France can boast ; with a population exceeding five millions,
spread over a wide extent of country, offering no one point, the
seizure of which, as of the great capitals of Europe, might decide
the issue ; with a soil liberal of all the productions that give
strength and resource ; with the rudiments of the most essential
manufactures, capable of being developed in proportion to our
want ; with a numerous, and, in many quarters, well appointed
militia ; with respectable revenues and a flourishing credit ; with
many of the principal sources of taxation yet untouched ; with
considerable arsenals, and the means of extending them ; with

jEt. 41.] THE STAND. G43

experienced officers ready to form an army under the command
of the same illustrious chief who before led them to victory and
glory, and who, if the occasion should require it, could not hesi-
tate to obey the summons of his country ; what a striking and
encouraging contrast does this situation in many respects pre-
sent, to that in which we defied the thunder of Britain ! What
is there in it to excuse or palliate the cowardice and baseness of
a tame surrender of our rights to France ?

The question is unnecessary. The people of America are
neither idiots nor dastards. They did not break one yoke to put
on another. Though a portion of them have been hitherto mis-
led ; yet not even these, still less the great body of the nation
can be long unaware of the true situation, or blind to the treach-
erous arts by which they are attempted to be hoodwinked. The
unfaithful and guilty leaders of a foreign faction, unmasked in all
their intrinsic deformity, must quickly shrink from the scene ap-
palled and confounded. The virtuous whom they have led
astray will renounce their exotic standard. Honest men of all
parties will unite to maintain and defend the honor and the
sovereignty of their country.

The crisis demands it. 'Tis folly to dissemble. The despots
of France are waging war against us. Intoxicated with success
and the inordinate love of power, they virtually threaten our in-
dependence. All amicable means have in vain been tried towards
accommodation. The problem now to be solved is whether we
will maintain or surrender our sovereignty. To maintain it with
firmness is the most sacred of duties, the most glorious of tasks.
The happiness of our country, the honor of the American name
demands it ; the genius of independence exhorts to it ; the se-
cret mourning voice of oppressed millions in the very country
whose despots menace us, admonish to it by their suffering ex-
ample ; the offended dignity of man commands us not to be
accessory to its further degradation ; reverence to the Supreme
Governor of the universe enjoins us not to bow the knee to the
modern Titans* who erect their impious crests against him and
vainly imagine they can subvert his eternal throne.

* A race of giants fabled of old to have made war on heaven.

644 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

But 'tis not enough to resist. Tis requisite to resist with
energy. That will be a narrow view of our situation which does
not contemplate that we may be called, at our very doors, to
defend our independence and liberty, and which does not provide
against it by bringing into activity and completely organizing
all the resources of our country. A respectable naval force
ought to protect our commerce, and a respectable army ought
both to diminish the temptation to invasion, by lessening the ap-
parent chance of success, and to guarantee us not only against
the signal success of such an attempt, but against the serious
though partial calamities, which in that case would certainly await
us if we have to rely on militia alone against the enterprises of
veteran troops, drenched in blood and slaughter, and led by a
skilful and daring chief.

Titus Manlius.

ii.

April, 4, 1798.
The description of vice, by a celebrated poet, may aptly be
applied to the Revolutionary Government of France. It is

" A monster of such horrid mien
As to be hated needs but to be seen."

Unfortunately however for mankind, a species of moral pesti-
lence has so far disordered the mental eye of a considerable portion
of it, as to prevent a distinct view of the deformities of this prod-
igy of human wickedness and folly. It is the misfortune of this
country in particular, that too many among its citizens have seen
the monster, in all its dreadful transformations, with complacency
or toleration. Nor is it among the least of the contradictions of
the human mind, that a religious, moral, and sober people should
have regarded with indulgence so frightful a volcano of atheism,
depravity and absurdity ; that a gentle and humane people should

^ET. 41.] THE STAND. 645

have viewed without detestation, so hateful an instrument ot
cruelty and bloodshed ; that a people having an enlightened and
ardent attachment to genuine liberty, should have contemplated
without horror so tremendous an engine of despotism and slavery.
The film indeed begins to be removed, but the vision of many of
those who have been under its influence is not yet restored to the
necessary energy or clearness.

It is of the last importance to our national safety and welfare,
that the remaining obscurity should be speedily dispelled. Till
this shall be the case, we shall stand on the brink of a precipice.
To exhibit the hydra in all its horrible pre-eminence of guilt
and mischief, would require volumes. Slight sketches, chiefly to
portray its character in reference to other nations, are all that will
comport with the plan of these papers.

In retracing the progress of a war winch has immersed Europe
in blood and calamity, it is an error as common as it is strange to
acquit France of responsibility, and throw the whole blame upon
her adversaries. This is a principal source of the indulgence
which is shown to the extravagances and enormities of her revo-
lution. And yet the plainest facts demonstrate that the reverse
of this supposition is far more agreeable to truth. It required
all the bold imposing pretences of the demagogues of France,
all the docile partiality of a warm admiration for her revolu-
tion, to have secured a moment's success to so glaring a decep-
tion.

The origin of the war is usually charged to the treaty ot
Pilnitz and to the counter-revolutionary projects of the parties

to it.

To this day we are without authentic and accurate evidence
of the nature of that treaty. Taking its existence for granted
there is not the least proof that it comprehended any other powers
than Austria, Prussia, and Sardinia. Beyond these therefore un-
less suspicion be substituted for fact, it could not afford even a
pretext for hostility. It is likewise certain that, after the date
assigned to the treaty of Pilnitz, the emperor, who was the re-
puted head of the confederacy, gave strong proof of the renunci-
ation of its object, if hostile to the revolution, by signifying,

646 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

through his ministers, to all the foreign Courts, his determination
to acquiesce in the Constitution of 1792, accepted by Louis
the XVI.

The diplomatic correspondence between France and Austria,
which preceded the rupture, evinces that the treaty of Pilnitz was
not the cause of the war, for it is not even mentioned. The im-
mediate ostensible cause, as it there appears, was the refusal of
Austria to disarm in compliance with the peremptory demand of
France: a demand to which this apparently very reasonable re-
ply was given — that France had previously armed to a greater
extent ; and that Austria could not safely reduce her force while
France remained in so disturbed and inflamed a state as to leave
her neighbors every moment exposed to the enterprises of her
revolutionary fervor. There is no absolute criterion by which it
can be pronounced whether this reply was merely a pretext or
the dictate of a serious apprehension. But it is certain that the
correspondence discovers great appearance of moderation and
candor, on the part of the imperial cabinet, and it is not to be de-
nied, that the state of effervescence of the French nation at this
juncture furnished real cause of alarm to the neighboring govern-
ments.

It is then, at best, problematical, whether France in declaring
war, as she did at the same time against Austria and Prussia,
was actuated by the conviction that it was necessary to antici-
pate and disconcert the unfriendly views of those powers; or
whether the war, as has been suggested with great probability,
was sought by the republican party as a mean of embarrassing
the executive government, and paving the way for the over-
throw of the royalty. Two things well established are instructive
on this point. The one, that the king was driven against his
wish, by a ministry forced upon him by the popular party, to
propose the declaration of war, which he considered as the tomb
of his family ; the other, that Brissot, the head of the then pre-
vailing faction, some time afterwards exultingly boasted that,
"but for this war, the revolution of the tenth of August would
never have taken place; that, but for this war, France would
never have been a republic."

&t. 41.] THE STAND. .47

Admitting nevertheless that the true source of the war with
Austria and Prussia is enveloped in some obscurity, there is
none as to the wars in which France became subsequently en-
gaged. It is clear as to them that she was the original ag-
gressor.

It appeared from cotemporary testimony that one of the first
acts of that assembly which dethroned the king, was in a parox-
ysm of revolutionary frenzy, to declare itself "A Committee of In-
surrection of the whole human race, for the purpose of overturn-
ing all existing government.'1 This extravagant declaration
surpasses any thing to be found in the ample record of human
madness. It amounted to an act of hostility against mankind.
The republic of America no less than the despotism of Turkey
was included in the anathema. It breathed that wild and ex-
cessive spirit of fanaticism which would scruple no means of es-
tablishing its favorite tenets; and which, in its avowed object,
threatening the disorganization of all governments, warranted a
universal combination to destroy the monstrous system of which
it was the soul.

The decrees of the 19th of November and the 15th of De-
cember, 1792, were modifications of the same spirit. The first
offered fraternity and assistance to every people who should
wish to recover their liberty, and charged the executive power
to send orders to their generals to give that assistance, and to de-
fend those citizens who had been or might be vexed for the cause
of liberty.

The last declared that the French nation would treat as ene-
mies any people who, refusing or renouncing liberty and equality,
were desirous of preserving, recalling, or entering into accommo-
dation with their prince and privileged castes.

The first was a general signal to insurrection and revolt. It
was an invitation to the seditious of every country, in pursuit of
chimerical schemes of more perfect liberty, to conspire under the
patronage of France against the established government, how-
ever free. To assist a people in a reasonable and virtuous strug-
gle for liberty, already begun, is both justifiable and laudable;
but to incite to revolution every where by indiscriminate offers

648 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

of assistance beforehand, is to invade and endanger the founda-
tion of social tranquillity. There is no term of reproach or exe-
cration too strong for so flagitious an attempt.

The last of the two decrees is not merely in spirit — it is in
terms equivalent to a manifesto of war against every nation hav-
ing a prince or nobility. It declares explicitly and formally,
that the French nation will treat as enemies every people, who may
desire to preserve or restore a government of that character.

It is impossible not to feel the utmost indignation against so
presumptuous and so odious a measure. It was not only to scat-
ter the embers of a general conflagration in Europe ; it was to
interfere coercively in the interior arrangements of other nations ;
it was to dictate to them, under the penalty of the vengeance of
France, what form of government they should live under ; it was
to forbid them to pursue their political happiness in their own
way ; it was to set up the worst of all despotisms, a despotism
over opinion, not against one nation, but against almost all na-
tions. With what propriety is the interference of the powers ul-
timately coalesced against France, in her interior arrangements,
imputed to them as an unpardonable crime, when her leaders
had given so terrible an example, and had provoked retaliation
as a means of self-preservation ?*

These decrees preceded the transactions which immediately
led to a rupture between France and the other powers, Austria
and Prussia excepted.

It is idle to pretend, that they did not furnish to those pow-
ors just cause of war. There is no rule of public law better
established, or on better grounds, than that when one nation une-
quivocally avows maxims of conduct dangerous to the security
and tranquillity of others, they have a right to attack her and to
endeavor to disable her from carrying her schemes into effect.

* If it be true, as pretended, that Austria and Prussia first interfered in this
way with France, it was no plea for her to retaliate on all the rest of Europe.
Great Britain in particular, as far as appears, had observed a fair neutrality. Yet
the principle of the French decree was emphatically pointed against her. by the
open reception of deputations of malcontents, and public declarations to them, on
behalf of the French government, avowing the desire of seeing all thrones over-
turned, of a national convention, and a republican revolution in England.

Mt.4i.\ the stand. G49

They are not bound to wait till inimical designs are matured for
action, when it may be too late to defeat them.

How far it may have been wise in a particular government
to have taken up the gauntlet, or if, in its option, to have left
France to the fermentations of the pernicious principles by which
its leaders were actuated, is a question of mere expediency, dis-
tinct from the right. It is also a complicated and difficult ques-
tion, one which able and upright men might decide different
ways. But the right is still indisputable. The moment the con-
vention vomited forth these venomous decrees, all the govern-
ments threatened were justifiable in making war upon France.

Neither were they bound to be satisfied with after explana-
tions or qualifications of the principles which had been declared.
They had a right to judge conscientiously whether reliance could
be placed on any pretended change of system, and to act accord-
ingly. And while the power of France remained in the same
men, who had discovered such hostile views, and while the ef-
fervescence of the public mind continued at its height, there could
not have been, in the nature of things, any security in assurances
of greater moderation. Fanaticism is a spirit equally fraudulent
and intractable. Fanatics may dissemble the better to effect their
aims, but they seldom suddenly reform. No faith is due to the
reformation which they may effect, unless it has been the work
of time and experience.

But whether a wrong or right election, in point of expedien-
cy, may have been made by all or any of the powers which,
after the passing of those decrees, became engaged in hostility
with France, it is not the less true, that her government was the
first aggressor, and is primarily chargeable with the evils which
have followed. This conclusion is greatly aided by the striking
fact, that it was France which declared war, not only against
Austria and Prussia, but against England, Spain, Sardinia, and
Holland.

Two very important inferences result from the facts which
have been presented ; one, that in blowing up the dreadful flame
which has overwhelmed Europe in misfortune, France is the
party principally culpable ; the other, that the prominent original

650 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

feature of her revolution is the spirit of proselytism, ©r the desire
of new modelling the political institutions of the rest of the world
according to her standard. The course of the revolution also
demonstrates that, whatever change of system may have been at
any time pretended, or however the system may in particular
instances have yielded to a temporary policy, it has continued
in the main to govern the conduct of the parties who have suc-
cessively triumphed and tyrannized.

Titus Manlius.

hi.

April 7th, 1798.

In reviewing the disgusting spectacle of the French revolution,
it is difficult to avert the eye entirely from those features of it
which betray a plan to disorganize the human mind itself, as
well as to undermine the venerable pillars that support the edi-
fice of civilized society. The attempt by the rulers of a nation
to destroy all religious opinion, and to pervert a whole nation to
atheism, is a phenomenon of profligacy reserved to consummate
the infamy of the unprincipled reformers of France. The*proofs
of this terrible design are numerous and convincing.

The animosity to the Christian system is demonstrated by
the single fact of the ridiculous and impolitic establishment of
the decades, with the evident object of supplanting the Christian
Sabbath. The inscriptions by public authority on the tombs of
the deceased, affirming death to be an eternal sleep, witness the
desire to discredit the belief of the immortality of the soul. The
open profession of atheism in the convention,* received with ac-
clamations; the honorable mention on its journals of a book
professing to prove the nothingness of all religion ;f the institu-
tion of a festival to offer public worship to a courtesan decorated

* By Dupont, Danton, &c.

f Written and presented by Anacharsis Clootz. calling himself orator of the
human race.

^Et.41.] THE STAND. 651

with the pompous title of " Goddess of Reason," the congratula-
tory reception of impious children appearing in the hall of the
convention to lisp blasphemy against the King of kings— are
among the dreadful proofs of a conspiracy to establish atheism
on the ruins of Christianity— to deprive mankind of its best
consolations and most animating hopes, and to make a gloomy
desert of the universe.

Latterly, the indications of this plan are not so frequent as
they were, but from time to time something still escapes which
discovers that it is not renounced. The late address of Buona-
parte to the Directory is an example. That unequalled conqueror,
from whom it is painful to detract, in whom one would wish to
find virtues worthy of his shining talents, profanely unites reli-
gion (not superstition) with royalty and the feudal system as the
scourges of Europe for centuries past. The decades likewise re-
main the catapulta which are to batter down Christianity.

Equal pains have been taken to deprave the morals as to ex-
tinguish the religion of the country, if indeed morality in a com-
munity can be separated from religion. It is among the singular
and fantastic vagaries of the French revolution, that while the
Duke of Brunswick was marching to Paris a new law of divorce
was passed, which makes it as easy for a husband to get rid of
his wife, and a wife of her husband, as to discard a worn-out
habit.* To complete the dissolution of those ties, which are the
chief links of domestic and ultimately of social attachment, the
journals of the convention record with guilty applause the accu-
sations preferred by children against their parents.

It is not necessary to heighten the picture by sketching the
horrid group of proscriptions and murders which have made
France a den of pillage and slaughter ; blackening with eternal
opprobrium the very name of man.

The pious and moral weep over these scenes as a sepulchre
destined to entomb all they revere and esteem. The politician

* This law, it was understood, had been lately modified in consequence of its
manifestly pernicious tendency: hut upon a plan which, according to the opinions
of the best men in the two councils lately banished, would leave the evil in full
force.

652 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

who loves liberty, sees them with regret as a gulf that may
swallow up the liberty to which he is devoted. He knows that
morality overthrown (and morality must fall with religion), the
terrors of despotism can alone curb the impetuous passions of
man, and confine him within the bounds of social duty.

But let us return to the conduct of revolutionary France to-
wards other nations, as more immediately within our purpose.

It has been seen that she commenced her career as the cham-
pion of universal liberty ; and, proclaiming destruction to the gov-
ernments which she was pleased to denominate despotic, made a
tender of fraternity of and assistance to the nations whom they
oppressed. She at the same time disclaimed conquest and ag-
grandizement.

But it has since clearly appeared that at the very moment
she was making these professions, and while her diplomatic
agents were hypocritically amusing foreign courts* with concili-
atory explanations and promises of moderation, she was exerting
every faculty by force and fraud, to accomplish the very con-
quest and aggrandizement which she insidiously disavowed.
The people of Belgium, ensnared by fair pretences, believed that
in abandoning the defence of their country and the cause of their
ancient sovereign, they acquired a title to enjoy liberty under a
government of their own choice, protected by France. Contrary
to the hopes which were inspired — contrary to the known will
of a large majority of that people — contrary to all their religious
and national prejudices; they have been compelled to become
departments of France. And their violated temples have afforded
a rich plunder to aliment further conquest aud oppression. The
Dutch, seduced by the same arts to facilitate rather than obstruct
the entrance of a French army into their country, thought they
were only getting rid of their stadtholder and nobles, and were
to retain their territory and their wealth, secured by such a civil
establishment as they should freely choose. Their reward is the
dismemberment of their country and the loss of their wealth by
exhausting contributions ; and they are obliged to take a govern-

* England among the rest.

Mt. 41.] THE STAND. 653

ment, dictated by a faction openly countenanced and supported
by France. Completely a province of France, in imitation of
their frantic masters they are advancing with rapid strides to a
lawless tyranny at home." France, professing eternal hatred to
kings, was to be the tutelary genius of republics. Holland, Ge-
noa, Venice, the Swiss Canton, and the United States, are agon-
izing witnesses of her sincerity.

Of undone Holland no more need be said ; nothing remains
for us but to exercise tender sympathy in the unfortunate fate of
a country which generously lent its aid to establish our inde-
pendence, and to deduce from her melancholy example an in-
structive lesson to repel with determined vigor the mortal em.
brace of her seducer and destroyer.

Genoa, a speck on the globe, for having at every hazard re-
sisted the efforts of the enemies of France, to force her from a
neutral station, is recompensed with a subversion of her govern-
ment and the pillage of her wealth, by compulsory and burthen-
some contributions.

Venice is no more ! In vain had she preserved a faithful
neutrality, when perhaps her interposition might have inclined
the scale of victory in Italy against France. A few of her citi-
zensj- kill some French soldiers. Instant retaliation takes place.
Every atonement is offered. Nothing will suffice but the over-
throw of her government. "lis effected. Her own citizens, at-
tracted by the lure of democracy, become accessory to it, and
receive a popular government at the hand of France. What is
the sequel ? what the faith kept with them ? It suits France to
bribe the emperor to a surrender of the Netherlands and to
peace, that she may pursue her projects elsewhere with less ob-
stacle. It suits France to extend her power and commerce by
the acquisitions of portions of the Venitian territories. The
bribe is offered and accepted. Venice is divided. She disap-
pears from the map of nations. The tragedy of Poland is reacted
with circumstances of aggravated atrocity. France is perfidious

* By the last accounts, some of the most independent citizens have heen seized
and imprisoned merely for the constitutional exercise of their opinion,
t Were they not French agents employed to create the pretext 1

654 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jffli. 41'.

enough to sacrifice a people who, at her desire, had consented to
abrogate their privileged casts to the chief of those despots,
against whom she had vowed eternal hatred.

The Swiss Cantons — the boast of republicans — the model
to which they have been glad to appeal in proof that a republi-
can government may consist with the order and happiness of so-
ciety— the old and faithful allies of France, who are not even
pretended to have deviated from sincere neutrality — what are
they at this moment? Perhaps like Venice, a story told! The
despots of France had found pretences to quarrel with them ;
commotions were excited ; the legions of ^France were in march
to second the insurgents. Little other hope remains than that
the death of this respectable people will be as glorious as their
life : that they will sell their independence as dearly as they
bought it. But why despair of a brave and virtuous people who
appear determined to meet the impending danger with a counte-
nance emulous of their ancient renown ?

The United States — what is their situation? Their sov-
ereignty trampled in the dust, and their commerce bleeding at
every pore, speak in loud accents the spirit of oppression and
rapine which characterizes the usurpers of France. But of this
a distinct view is requisite, and will be taken.

In these transactions we discover ambition and fanaticism
marching hand in hand— bearing the ensigns of hypocrisy,
treachery, and rapine. The dogmas of a false and fatal creed
second the weapons of ambition. Like the prophet of Mecca,
the tyrants of France press forward with the alcoran of their
faith in one hand and the sword in the other. They proselyte,
subjugate, and debase — no distinction is made between republic
and monarchy— all must alike yield to the aggrandizement of
the " great nation;" the destinctive, the arrogant appellation
lately assumed by France to assert in the face of nations her
superiority and ascendency. Nor is it a mere title with which
vanity decorates itself ;— it is the substantial claim of dominion.
France, swelled to a gigantic size, and aping ancient Eome, ex-
cept in her virtues, plainly meditates the control of mankind,
and is actually giving the law to nations. Unless they quickly

;Et. 41.] THE STAND. 655

rouse and compel her to abdicate her insolent claim, they will
verify the truth of that philosophy, which makes man in his
natural state a quadruped, and it will only remain for the misera-
ble animal, converting his hands into paws in the attitude of
prone submission, to offer his patient and servile back to what-
ever burthens the lordly tyrants of France may think fit to
impose.

Titus Manlius.

IV.

April 12, 1798.

In the pursuit of her plan of universal empire, the two
objects which now seem to occupy the attention of France, are a
new organization of Germany, favorable to her influence, and the
demolition of Great Britain. The subversion and plunder —
first of Portugal, and next of Spain, will be merely collateral
instances in the great drama of iniquity.

In the new distribution of the territories, population, and
political power of the Germanic body, which has been announced
as in contemplation of the Directory, three characters are con-
spicuous— a despotism to build up rivals to the imperial chief,
strong enough to feel the sentiment of competition, but too
weak to hazard it alone, who will therefore stand in need of the
patronage of France ; and, as a consequence, will facilitate her
influence in the affairs of the empire — a generosity in making
compensation at the expense of others, for the spoils with which
she has aggrandized herself — a facility of transferring communi-
ties like herds of cattle from one master to another, without the
privilege of an option. In a project like this, it is impossible to
overlook the plain indications of a restless, overbearing ambition,
combined with a total disregard of the rights and wishes of na-
tions. The people are counted for nothing, their masters every
thing.

The conduct of France towards Great Britain, is the copy of

656 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

that of Korae towards Carthage. Its manifest aim is to destroy
the principal obstacle to a domination over Europe. History
proves that Great Britain has repeatedly upheld the balance of
power there, in opposition to the grasping ambition of France.
She has no doubt occasionally employed the pretence of danger,
as the instrument of her own ambition ; but it is not the less
true that she has been more than once an essential and effectual
shield againt real danger. This was remarkably the case in the
reign of Louis the XlVth, when the security of Europe was
seriously threatened by the successful enterprises of that very
ambitious monarch.

The course of the last negotiation between France and Britain
leaves no doubt that the former was resolved against peace on
any practicable terms. This of itself indicates that the destruction
of the latter is the direct object in view. But this object is not
left to inference. It has been fastidiously proclaimed to the
world ; and the necessit}7 of crushing the tyrant of the sea, has
been trumpeted as a motive to other powers to acquiesce in the
execution of a plan, by which France endeavors to become the
tyrant both of sea and land. The understanding of mankind has,
at the same time, been mocked with the proposition that the
peace of Europe would be secured by the aggrandizement of
France on the ruins of her rivals; because then, it is said, having
nothing to fear, she would have no motive to attack ; as if mode-
ration was to be expected from a government or people having
the power to impose its own will without control. The peace of
Europe would in such a case be the peace of vassalage.

Towards the execution of the plan of destroying Great
Britain, the rights of other nations are daringly and openly
invaded. The confiscation is decreed of all vessels with their
cargoes, if composed in any part of articles of British fabric ;
and all nations are to be compelled to shut their ports against the
meditated victim. Hamburg is stated to have already reluc-
tantly yielded to this humiliating compulsion.

While the demolition of Great Britain is eagerly pursued as
a primary object, that of Portugal seems designed to form an
episode in the tragedy. Her fears had induced her to buy a

jEt. 41.] THE STAND. 657

peace. The money she had paid was the immediate instrument
of the revolution of September last. Yet no sooner had the
news of pacification with the emperor reached Paris, than pre-
tences were sought to elude the ratification of the purchased
treaty. A larger tribute was demanded — more probably than it
was expected Portugal would be able to pay, to serve as an ex-
cuse for marching an army to revolutionize and plunder.* The
blow may perhaps be suspended by further sacrifices, but it is
not likely to be finally averted.

Spain, too, was in a fair way of enjoying the fruits of her
weakness in putting on the yoke of France, and of furnishing
another proof of the general scheme of aggrandizement and op-
pression. The demand of the cession of Louisiana, long pressed
upon her, had at length become categoric. The alternative was
to comply or offend. The probability is that before this time the
cession has been made ; and Spain has learnt to her cost, that the
chief privilege of an ally of France is to be plundered at discre-
tion. With the acquisition of Louisiana, the foundation will be
laid for stripping her of South America and her mines ; and per-
haps for dismembering the United States. The magnitude of
this mighty mischief is not easily calculated.

Such vast projects and pretensions pursued by such unexam-
pled means, are full evidence of a plan to acquire an absolute
ascendant among nations. The difficulties in the final execution
of a plan of this kind are, with many decisive reasons, against its
existence.

But in the case of ancient Eome, did it not in fact exist, and
was it not substantially realized? Does the experience of the
past day warrant the opinion that men are not as capable of mad
and wicked projects as they were at any former period ? Does
not the conduct of the French government display a vastness
and sublimation of views, an enormity of ambition, and a desti-
tution of principle, which render the supposition of such a design
probable ? Has not a more rapid progress been made towards
its execution than was ever made by Eome in an equal period ?-

* Such is the account of the transaction received through authentic channels.

G 42

65S HAMILTON'S WORKS \JEt.U.

In their intercourse with foreign nations, do not the Directory
affect an ostentatious imitation of Roman pr/ide and superiority ?
Is it not natural to conclude that the same spirit points to the
same ends? The project is possible. The evidence of its exist-
ence is strong, and it will be the wisdom of every other State to
act upon the supposition of its reality.

Let it be understood, that the supposition does not imply the
intention to reduce all other nations formally to the condition of
provinces. This was not clone by Rome in the zenith of her
greatness. She had her provinces, and she had her allies. But
her allies were in fact her vassals. They obeyed her nod.
Their princes were deposed and created at pleasure.

Such is the proud pre-eminence to which the ambition of
France aspires ! After securing as much territory as she thinks
it expedient immediately to govern, after wresting from Great
Britain and attaching to herself the command of the sea, after
despoiling Spain of the riches of Mexico and Peru, after attaining
by all these means to a degree of strength sufficient to defy and
awe competition, she may be content, under the modest denomi-
nation of allies, to rule the rest of the world by her frown or her
smile.

The character of the actual Directory of France justifies the
imputation to them of any project the most extravagant and
criminal. Viewed internally as well as externally, their conduct
is alike detestable. They have overturned the Constitution, which
they were appointed to administer, with circumstances of bare-
faced guilt that disgrace a revolution, before so tarnished as seem-
ed scarcely to admit of greater degradation, and have erected in
its stead a military despotism, clothed but not disguised with
the mere garb of the Constitution which they have abolished.
In the accomplishment of this usurpation, they have assassinated
one of their colleagues* and seized and banished another, together
with all those members of the two councils, who were disposed
and able to combat their pernicious aims. They have done more ;

* Carnot, as was reported at the time, and as is confirmed by nothing having been
since heard of him. He had been too deeply in the secrets of the violent party.
It was necessary to silence him.

At. 41.] THE STAND. 659

not content with rendering themselves masters of the two coun-
cils, and converting them into the mere pageants of national
representation, they have thought it proper to secure their own
power by exiling or imprisoning such private citizens as they
feared might promote the future election of men hostile to their
views, on the futile pretence of a counter revolutionary plot, to
be effected by royalizing the elections. Thus have they not only
monopolized all the power for the present, but they have made
provisions for its perpetuation; so long at least as the Praetorian
bands will permit.

No impartial man can doubt that the plot charged upon the
exiled members is a forgery. The characters of several of the
accused belie it. Barthelemy and Pichegru are virtuous men.
The former has long merited and possessed this character. The
latter has given numerous proofs of a good title to it — his only
fault seems to have been that of enthusiasm in the worst of causes.
Neither of them, like Dumourier, had been, from his entrance on
public life, marked out as the votary of an irregular ambition.
The alleged object of the plot, as to such men, from the circum-
stances of the conjuncture, was wholly improbable ; nothing like
satisfactory proof has come to light. But the decisive argument
of their innocence is, that the usurpers did not dare to con-
front them with a fair legal accusation and trial. It was so clearly
their interest and policy to have justified themselves by establish-
ing the guilt of the accused, if in their power, that the omission
to attempt it is the demonstration of its impossibility. Having all
authority in their own hands, and the army at their devotion,
they had nothing to fear from the pursuit ; and they must have
foreseen that the banishment without trial, would finally marshal
public opinion against them. There can be little doubt that the
people of France at this moment regard with compassion and re-
gret the banished directors and deputies, and with horror and de-
testation the authors of their disgrace. But the people of France
internally are annihilated ; to their liberty and happiness, this last
usurpation gave a more fatal blow than any or all of the former.
It has more of system in it, and been less sanguinary, is less likely
to provoke resistance from despair.

660 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

The inference from the transaction is evident. The real crime
of the banished was the desire of arresting the mad career of the
Directory, and of restoring peace to France, in the hope that
peace might tend to settle the government on the foundation of
order, security, and tranquillity. The majority of the Directory
foresaw that peace would not prove an element congenial with
the duration of their power ; or perhaps, under the guidance of
Sieyes, the conjurer of the scene, they judged it expedient to con-
tinue in motion the revolutionary wheel, till matters were better
prepared for creating a new dynasty and a new aristocracy* to
regenerate the exploded monarchy of France with due regard to
their own interest.

Thus we perceive that the interior conduct of the Directory
has the same characters with their exterior — the same irregular
ambition, the same contempt of principle, the same boldness of
design, the same temerity of execution. From such men what is
not to be expected ? The development of their recent conduct
towards the United States will no doubt confirm all the inferences
to be drawn from other parts of the portrait, and will contribute
to prove, that there is nothing too abandoned or too monstrous
for them to meditate or attempt.

Who that loves his country, or respects the dignity of his na-
ture, would not rather perish than subscribe to the prostration of
both before such men and such a system? What sacrifice, what
danger is too great to be incurred in opposition to both ? What
security in any compromise with such unprincipled men ? What
safety, but in union, in vigor, in preparation for every extremity ;
in a decisive and courageous stand for the rights and honor of
our injured and insulted country ?

Titus Manlius.

* There is good evidence that this, at bottom the real plan of the Abbe Sieyes
and some of the most influential in the executive department, are his creatures.

JEt. 41.] THE STAND. 661

V.

April 10th. 1798.

To estimate properly the conduct of revolutionary France
towards the United States, the circumstances which have recip-
rocally taken place, must be viewed together. It is a whole not
& part which is to be contemplated. A rapid summary, never-
theless, of the most material is all that can be presented.

Not only the unanimous good wishes of the citizens of this
country spontaneously attached themselves to the revolution of
France in its first stages, but no sooner was the change from
monarchy to a republic officially announced, than our govern-
ment, consulting the principles of our own revolution, and the
wishes of our citizens, hastened to acknowledge the new order of
things. This was done to the last minister sent by Louis the
XVIth, before the arrival of the first envoy from the republic.
Genet afterwards came — his reception by the government was
cordial — by the people, enthusiastic.

The government did not merely receive the minister of the
republic, in fact, and defer the obligation of treaties till the con-
test concerning its establishment had been terminated by success :
but giving the utmost latitude to the maxim that, real treaties
bind nations, notwithstanding revolutions of government, ours
did not hesitate to admit the immediate operation of the an-
tecedent treaties between the two countries, though the revolu-
tion could not be regarded as yet fully accomplished — though a
warrant for a contrary policy might have been found in the
conduct of France herself — and though the treaties contained
several stipulations which gave to her important preferences
relative to war, and which were likely to give umbrage to the
powers coalesced against her.

In acknowledging the republic, the United States preceded
every other nation. It was not till a long time after, that any of
the neutral powers followed the example. Ilad prudence been
exclusively consulted, our government might not have done all
that it did at this juncture, when the case was very nearly Eu-
rope in arms against France.

662 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

But good faith and a regard to consistency of principle, pre-
vailed over the sense of danger. It was resolved to encounter it :
qualifying the step by the manifestation of a disposition to ob-
serve a sincere neutrality, as far as should consist with the
stipulations of treaty. Hence the proclamation of neutrality.

It ought to have no small merit in the eyes of France,
that at so critical a period of her affairs, we were willing to run
risks so imminent. The fact is, that it had nearly implicated
us in the war on her side, at a juncture when all calculations
were against her, and when it was certain she could have afforded
us no protection or assistance.

What was the return ? Genet came with neutrality on his
lips, but war in his heart. The instructions published by him-
self, and his practice upon them, demonstrate that it was the pre-
meditated plan to involve us in the contest; not by a candid
appeal to the judgment, friendship, or interest of our country,
but by alluring the avarice of bad citizens into acts of predatory
hostility, by instituting within our territory, military expeditions
against nations with whom we were at peace. And when it was
found that our Executive would not connive at this insidious
plan, bold attempts were made to create a schism between the
people and the government, and, consequently, to sow the seeds
of civil discord, insurrection, and revolution. Thus began the
republic.

It is true that the Girondist faction, having been subverted by
that of Robespierre, our complaint of the agent of the former was
attended with success. The spirit of vengeance came in aid of
the justice of our demand. The offending minister was recalled
with disgrace. But Robespierre did not fail in a public speech
to give a gentle hint of delinquency in the United States, suffi-
ciently indicating that the authors and the manner were more in
fault, in his opinion, than the thing. It was not the expedient
to quarrel with us. There was still a hope that a course of
things, or more dexterous management, might embark us in the
war, as an auxiliary to France.

The treaties were made by us the criterion of our duty ; but
as they did not require us to go to war, as France did never even

JEt. 41.] THE STAND. 663

pretend this to be the case, listening to the suggestions, not on
of interest, but of safety, we resolved to endeavor to preserve
peace. But we were equally resolved to fulfil our real obliga-
tions in every respect. We saw without murmur our property
seized in belligerent vessels — we allowed to French ships of war
and privateers, all the peculiar exclusive privileges in our ports
to which they were entitled by our treaties upon fair construc-
tion— upon a construction fully concurred in by the political had r*
of the adherents to France — we went further, and gratuitously
suffered her to sell her prizes in our country, in contravention,
perhaps, of the true principles of neutrality — we paid to her new
government the debt contracted by us with the old, not only as
fast as it became due, but by an anticipation, which did not give
pleasure to her enemies. While our government was faithful,
our citizens were zealous. Not content with good wishes, they
adventured their property in the furnishing of supplies to an
extent that showed, in many cases, the co-operation of zeal with
interest.

Our country, our merchants, and our ships, in the gloomy
periods of her revolution, have been the organs of succors to
France, to a degree which gives us an undoubted title to the
character of very useful friends.

Eeverse the medal. France from the beginning, has violated
essential points in the treaties between the two countries. The
"first formal unequivocal act by either of the belligerent parties,
interfering with the rule that "free ships make free goods," was a
decree of the French convention. This violation has been per-
sisted in, and successive violations added, till they amount to a
general war on our commerce.

First, the plea of necessity repelled our feeble and modest
complaints of infractions. Next, the plea of delinquencies on
our part was called in aid of the depredations which it was found
convenient to practise upon our trade. Our refusal to accord
privileges not granted by our treaties, but claimed by miscon-
structions destitute even of plausibility, privileges which would

* Mr. Jefferson.

664 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

have put us at once in a state of war with the enemies of France —
the reciprocal application to them of principles originally esta-
blished against their remonstrances in favor of France, occa-
sional embarrassments to her privateers, arising from the esta-
blished forms of our courts, and the necessity of vigilance to
frustrate her efforts to entangle us against our will in the war —
delays in giving relief in a few instances, rendered unavoidable
by the nature of our government, and the great extent of our
territory— these were so many topics of bitter accusation against
our government, and of insult, as rude as it was unmerited.

Our citizens, in judging whether the accusation was captious
or well founded, ought to bear in mind, that most of the trans-
actions on which it was predicated, happened under the adminis-
tration of Jefferson and Eandolph, and, as is well ascertained,
with their full assent and co-operation. They will not readily
suppose that these very cunning men were the dupes of col-
leagues actuated by ill-will towards France ; but they will dis-
cover in this union of opinion, among men of very opposite
principles, a strong probability that our government acted with
propriety, and that the dissatisfaction of France, if more than a
color, was unreasonable.

Hitherto, the progress, no less than the origin of our contro-
versy with France, exhibits plain marks of a disposition on her
part to disregard those provisions in the treaties which it was
our interest should be observed by her — to exact from us a scru-
pulous performance of our engagements, and even the extension
of them beyond their true import — to embroil us with her ene-
mies, contrary to our inclination and interest, and without even
the allegation of a claim upon our faith — to make unreasonable
demands upon the grounds of complaints against us, and excuses
to violate our property and rights — to divide our nation, and to
disturb our government.

Many of the most determined advocates of France among us,
appear lately to admit, that previous to the treaty with Great
Britain, the complaints of France against the United States were
frivolous ; those of the United States against France, real and
serious.

Mt. 41.] THE STAND. GG5

But the treaty with Great Britain, it is affirmed, has changed
the ground. This, it is said, has given just cause of discontent to
France — this has brought us to the verge of war with our first
ally and best friend ; to this fatal instrument are we indebted for
the evils we feel, and the still greater which impend over our
heads.

These suggestions are without the shadow of foundation.
They prove the infatuated devotion to a foreign power of those
who invented them, and the easy credulity of those with whom
they have obtained currency. The evidence of a previous dispo-
sition in France, to complain without a cause, and to injure with-
out provocation, is a sufficient comment upon the resentment she
professes against the treaty. The partiality or indulgence with
which the ill treatment received from her prior to that event, was
viewed by her decided partisans is a proof of the facility with
which they credit her pretensions, and palliate her aggressions.

The most significant of the charges against the treaty, as it
respects France, are, that it abandons the rule of free ships
making free goods ; that it extended unduly the list of contra-
band articles, and gave color to the claim of a right to subject
provisions to seizure ; that a treaty of amity with the enemy of
France, in the midst of a war, was a mark of preference to that
enemy, and of ill-will to her.

The replies which have been given to these charges are con-
clusive.

As to the first point, the stipulation of two powers to observe
between themselves a particular rule in their respective wars, a
rule, too, innovating upon the general law of nations, can, on no
known or reasonable principle of interpretation, be construed to
intend that they will insist upon that rule with all other nations,
and will make no treaty with any, however beneficial in other
respects, which does not comprehend it. To tic up the will of a
nation, and its power of providing for its own interests, to so im-
mense an extent, required a stipulation in positive terms. In
vain shall we seek in the treaty for such a stipulation or its
equivalent. There is not even a single expression to imply it.
The idea is, consequently, no less ridiculous than it is novel.

666 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 41.

The cotemporarj proceedings, legislative and judiciary, of our
government, show that it was not so understood in this country.
Congress even declined to become a formal party to the armed
neutrality of which it was the basis ; unwilling to be pledged for
the coercive maintenance of a principle which they were only
disposed to promote by particular acts. It is equally futile to
seek to derive the obligation of the United States to adhere to
this rule from the supposition of a change in the law of nations
by the force of that league. Neither theory nor practice warrants
the attributing so important an effect to a military association,
springing up in the war and ending with it ; not having had the
universal consent of nations, nor a course of long practice to give
it a sanction.

Were it necessary to resort to an auxiliary argument, it might
be said with conclusive force that France, having before our
treaty with Great Britain violated in practice the rule in question,
absolved us from all obligations to observe it, if any did pre-
viously exist.

As to the second point, it has been repeatedly demonstrated
that the enumeration of contraband in the treaty with Great
Britain, is agreeable to the general law of nations. But this is a
matter from its nature liable to vary according to relative situa-
tion, and to be variously modified, not only between different
nations, but between one nation and different nations. Thus,
in our treaty, with Great Britain, some articles are enumerated
which are omitted in that with France ; in that with France,
some articles are inserted which are omitted in that with
Britain. But it is, perhaps, the first time that a diversity of this
sort has been deemed a ground of umbrage to a third party.

With regard to provisions — the treaty only decides that where
by the law of nations they are subject to seizure, they are to be
paid for. It does not define or admit any new case. As to its
giving color to abuse in this respect, this, if true, would amount
to nothing. For, till some abuse had actually happened, and
been tolerated to the prejudice of France, there was no cause of
complaint. The possibility of abuse from a doubtful construction
of a treaty between two powers, is no subject of offence to a

JEt. 41.] THE STAND. 667

third. It is the fact which must govern. According to this in-
disputable criterion, France has had no cause to complain on this
account ; for since the ratification of the treaty, no instance of the
seizure of provisions has occurred, and it is known that our
government protested against such a construction.

Further, the treaty has made no change whatever in the
actual antecedent state of things to the disadvantage of France.

Great Britain had, before the treaty, with the sanction of our
government, acted upon the principles as to free ships making
free goods, and generally, as to the affair of contraband which
the treaty recognizes. Nor was that sanction merely tacit, but
explicit and direct. It was even diplomatically communicated to
the agents of France. If there was any thing wrong, therefore,
in this matter, it was chargeable, not upon the treaty, but upon
the prior measures of the government, which had left these points
mere points of form in the treaty.

The remaining charge against that instrument, involves a
species of political metaphysics. Neither the theory of writers
nor the history of nations, will bear out the position, that a treaty
of amity between a neutral state and one belligerent party, not
granting either succors or new privileges relative to war, not
derogatory from any obligation of the neutral state to the other
belligerent party, is a cause of umbrage to the latter. There can
be no reason why a neutral power should not settle differences
or adjust a plan of intercourse, beneficial to itself with another
power, because this last happens to be at war with a third. All
this must be a mere question of courtesy ; and might be un-
courteous or otherwise according to circumstances, but never a
ground of quarrel. If there even might have been want of cour-
tesy in the United States to have entered into a treaty of this
sort with the enemy of France ; had they volunteered it without
cogent motives, there could be none in the particular situation.
They were led to the treaty by pre-existing differences, which
had nearly ripened to a rupture, and the amicable settlement of
which affected very important interests. No favorable con-
jucture for this settlement was to be lost. The settlement, by
the usual formulas in such cases, would amount to a treaty of
amity.

668 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 41.

Thus it is evident that the treaty, like all the rest, has been a
mere pretence for ill treatment. But admitting that this was not
the case, that it really afforded some cause of displeasure, was
this of a nature to admit of no atonement, or of none short of the
humiliation of our country ? If the contrary must be conceded,
it is certain that our government has done all that was possible
towards reconciliation, and enough to have satisfied any reasona-
ble or just government.

France, after the treaty, proceeded to inflict still deeper wounds
upon our commerce. She has endeavored to intercept and de-
stroy it with all the ports of her enemies. Nor was this the worst.
The spoliation has frequently attended our trade with her own
dominions — attended with unparalleled circumstances of rapacity
and violence.

The diplomatic representative of the French government to
the United States was ordered to deliver to our government a
most insulting manifesto, and then to withdraw.

Yet our government, notwithstanding this accumulation of
wrongs, after knowing that it had been repeatedly outraged in
the person of one minister, condescended to send another specially
charged to endeavor to conciliate. This minister was known to
unite fidelity to his country with principles friendly to France
and her revolution. It was hoped that the latter would make
him acceptable, and that he would be able, by amicable explana-
tions and overtures, to obviate misunderstanding and restore har-
mony. He was not received.

Though it was very problematical whether the honor of the
United States, after this, permitted a further advance, yet the
government, anxious if possible to preserve peace, concluded to
make another and more solemn experiment. A new mission,
confided to three extraordinary ministers, took place. They were
all three, in different degrees, men well affected to France and her
revolution. They were all men of high respectability, and among
the purest characters of our country. Their powers and instruc-
tions were so ample as to have extorted, from the most determined
opposers of the government in the two Houses of Congress, a
reluctant approbation in this instance of the President's conduct.

JEt. 41.] THE STAND. 669

In contempt of the established usage, and of the respect due to
us an independent people, with the deliberate design of humbling
and mortifying our government, these special and extraordinary
ministers have been refused to be received. Admitting all the
charges brought against us by France to be well founded, still
ministers of that description ought on every principle to have
been accredited and conferred with, till it was ascertained that
they were not ready to do as much as was expected. Not to
pursue this course was to deny us the rank of an independent
nation ; it was to treat us as Great Britain did while we were yet
contending with her for this character.

Instead of this, informal agents, probably panders and mistress-
es, are appointed to intrigue with our envoys. These, attending
only to the earnest wish of their constituents for peace, stoop to
the conference. What is the misshapen result?

Money, money, is the burden of the discordant song of these
foul birds of prey. Great indignation is at first professed against
expressions in the President's speech of May last. The reparation
of a disavowal is absolutely due to the honor of the Directory and
of the Eepublic, but it turns out that there is a practicable substitute
more valuable. The honor of both, being a marketable commod-
ity, is ready to be commuted for gold.

A douceur of 50,000 pounds sterling for the special benefit of
the Directory was to pave the way. Instead of reparation for the
spoliations on our commerce exceeding twenty millions of dollars,
a loan equal to the amount of them is to be made by us to the
French government. Then perhaps a mode might be settled for
the liquidation of the claims of our merchants, to be compensated
at some future period. The depredations nevertheless were to
continue till the treaty should be concluded, which, from the dis-
tance between the two countries, must at all events take a great
length of time, and might be procrastinated indefinitely at the
pleasure of the Directory.

In addition to all this we must purchase of the Directory at
par Dutch inscriptions to the amount of thirty millions of florins,
and look to the ability of the Batavian republic to redeem them.
Already are these assignats depreciated to half their nominal

670 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 41.

value, and in all probability will come to nothing, serving merely
as a flimsy veil to the extortion of a further and immense contri-
bution.* " Money, a great deal of money," is the cry from the
first to the last ; and our commissioners are assured that without
this they may stay in Paris six months without advancing a step.
To enforce the argument they are reminded of the fate of
Venice.

At so hideous a compound of corruption and extortion, at
demands so exorbitant and degrading, there is not a spark of
virtuous indignation in an American breast, which will not
kindle into a flame. And yet there are men, could it be believed,
vile and degenerate enough to run about the streets to contradict,
to palliate, to justify, to preach the expediency of compliance.
Such men merit all the detestation of all their fellow-citizens :
and there is no doubt that, with time and opportunity, they will
merit much more from the offended justice of the laws.

Titus Manlius.

VI.

April 19, 1798.

The inevitable conclusion, from the facts which have been
presented, is that revolutionary France has been and continues
to be governed by a spirit of proselytism, conquest, domination,
and rapine. The detail well justifies the position that we may
have to contend at our very doors for our independence and
liberty. When the wonders achieved by the arms of France
are duly considered, the possibility of the overthrow of Great
Britain seems not to be chimerical. If, by any of those ex-
traordinary coincidences of circumstances which occasionally
decide the fate of empires, the meditated expedition against
England shall succeed ; or if, by the immense expense to which
that country is driven, and the derangement of her commerce

* II faut de l'argent — il faut beaucoup de l'argent.

/Ex. 41. | THE STAND. 071

by the powerful means employed to that end, her affairs shall
be thrown into such disorder as may enable France to dictate
to her the terms of peace; in either of these unfortunate events
the probability is, that the United States will have to choose
between the surrender of their sovereignty, the new-modelling
of their government according to the fancy of the Directory,
the emptying of their wealth by contributions into the coffers
of the greedy and insatiable monster, and resistance to inva-
sion in order to compel submission to fhose ruinous conditions.

In opposition to this, it is suggested that the interest of
France, concurring with the difficulty of execution, is a safe-
guard against the enterprise. It is asked, what incentives suffi-
ciently potent can stimulate to so unpromising an attempt ? The
answer is, the strongest passions of bad hearts — inordinate am-
bition— the love of domination, that prime characteristic of the
despots of France — the spirit of vengeance, for the presumption
of having thought and acted for ourselves, a spirit which has
marked every step of the revolutionary leaders — the fanatical
egotism of obliging the rest of the world to adapt their political
system to the French standard of perfection — the desire of se-
curing the future control of our affairs by humbling and ruin-
ing the independent supporters of their country, and of elevat-
ing the partisans and tools of France — the desire of entangling
our commerce with preferences and restrictions which would
give to her the monopoly — these passions — the most imperious,
these motives, the most enticing to a crooked policy, are
sufficient persuasives to undertake the subjugation of this
country.

Added to these primary inducements, the desire of finding
an outlet for a part of the vast armies, which, on the termin-
ation of the European war, are likely to perplex and endanger
the men in power, would be an auxiliary motive of great force.
The total loss of the troops sent would be no loss to France.
Their cupidity would be readily excited to the undertaking, by
the prospect of dividing among themselves the fertile lands of
this country. Great Britain once silenced, there would be no
insuperable obstacle to the transportation. The divisions among

672 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

us which have been urged to our commissioners as one motive
to a compliance with the unreasonable demands of the Directory,
would be equally an encouragement to invasion. It would be
believed that a sufficient number would flock to the standard of
France, to render it easy to quell the resistance of the rest.
Drunk with success, nothing would be thought too arduous
to be accomplished.

It is too much a part of our temper to indulge an overween-
ing security. At the close of our revolution war, the phantom
of perpetual peace danced before the eyes of every body. We
see at this early period with how much difficulty war has been
parried, and that with all our efforts to preserve peace, we are
now in a state of partial hostility. Untaught by this experience,
we now seem inclined to regard the idea of invasion as incredi-
ble, and to regulate our conduct by the belief of its improbabili-
ty. Who would have thought, eighteen months ago, that Great
Britain would at this time have been in serious danger of an in-
vasion from France? Is it not now more probable that such a
danger may overtake us, than it was then that it would so soon
Great Britain ?

There are currents in human affairs when events, at other
times little less than miraculous, are to be considered as natural
and simple. Such were the eras of Macedonian, of Koman, of
Gothic, of Saracen inundation. Such is the present era of
French fanaticism. Wise men, when they discover symptoms of
a similar era, look for prodigies, and prepare for them with
foresight and energy.

Admit that in our case invasion is upon the whole improba-
ble ; yet, if there are any circumstances which pronounce that
the apprehension of it is not absolutely chimerical, it is the part
of wisdom to act as if it were likely to happen. What are the
inconveniences of preparation compared with the infinite magni-
tude of the evil if it shall surprise us unprepared? They are
lighter than air, weighed against the smallest probability of so
disastrous a result.

But what is to be done ? Is it not wiser to compound on
any terms than to provoke the consequences of resistance ?

.Et. 41.] THE STAND. 673

To do this is dishonor— it is ruin— it is death. Waiving
other considerations, there can be no reliance on its efficacy. The
example of Portugal teaches us that it is to purchase disgrace
not safety. The cravings of despotic rapacity may be appeased
but they are not to be satisfied. They will quickly renew their
force, and call for new sacrifices in proportion to the facility
with which the first were made. The situation of France is
likely to make plunder for a considerable time to come, an in-
dispensable expedient of government. Excluding the great
considerations of public policy, and bringing the matter to the
simple test of pecuniary calculation, resistance is to be preferred
to submission. The surrender of our whole wealth would only
procure respite, not safety. The disbursements for war will
chiefly be at home. They will not necessarily carry away our
riches, and they will preserve our honor and give us security.

But, in the event supposed, can we oppose with success?
There is no event in which we may not look with confidence
to a successful resistance. Though Great Britain should be
impolitic or wicked enough (which is hoped to be impossible)
to compromise her difficulties with France, to divide the United
States according to the insulting threat of the agents of France,
still it is in our power to maintain our independence and baffle
every enemy. The people of the United States, from their num-
ber, situation, and resources, are invincible, if they are provident
and faithful to themselves.

The question returns, "What is to be done ? Shall we declare
war ? No ; there are still chances to avoid a rupture, which
ought to be taken. Want of success must bring the present
despots to reason. Every day may produce a revolution which
may substitute better men in their place, and lead to honorable
accommodation.

Our true policy is, in the attitude of calm defiance, to meet the
aggressions upon us by proportionate resistance, and to prepare
vigorously for further resistance. To this end, the chief meas-
ures requisite are — to invigorate our treasury by calling into ac-
tivity the principal untouched resources of revenue — to fortify
in earnest our chief seaports — to establish founderies, and increase
G 43

674 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

our arsenals — to create a respectable naval force, and to raise
with the utmost diligence a considerable army. Our merchant
vessels ought to be permitted not only to arm themselves but
to sink or capture their assailants. Our vessels of war ought
to cruise on our coast and serve as convoys to our trade. In
doing this, they ought also to be authorized not only to sink or
capture assailants, but likewise to capture and bring in privateers
found hovering within twenty leagues of our coast. For this
last measure, precedent, if requisite, is to be found in the conduct
of neutral powers on other occasions.

This course, it will be objected, implies a state of war. Let
it be so. But it will be a limited, a mitigated state of war, to
grow into a general war or not at the election of France. What
may be that election will probably depend on future and incalcula-
ble events. The continuation of success on the part of France
would insure war. The want of it might facilitate accommoda-
tion. There are examples in which states have been for a long
time in a state of partial hostility without proceeding to general
rupture. The duration of this course of conduct on our part
may be restricted to the continuance of the two last decrees of
France ; that by which the trade of neutrals with the ports of
her enemies has been intercepted, and that by which vessels and
their cargoes composed in whole or in part of British fabrics,
are liable to seizure and condemnation.

The declared suspension of our treaties with France, is a
measure of evident justice and necessity. It is the natural con-
sequence of a total violation on one side. It would be preposte-
rous to be fettered by treaties, which are wholly disregarded by
the other party. It is essentially our interest to get rid of the
guarantee in the treaty of alliance which, on the part of France,
is likely to be henceforth nugatory : on the part of the United
States, is a substantial and dangerous stipulation, obliging them
in good faith to take part with France in any future defensive
war in which her "West India colonies may be attacked. The
consular convention is likewise a mischievous instrument, devised
by France in the spirit of extending her influence into other
countries, and producing to a certain extent imperium in imjperio.

^Et. 41.] THE STAND. 675

It may be happy for the United States that an occasion has
been furnished by France in which with good faith they may
break through these trammels; re-adjusting when reconciliation
shall take place, a basis of connection or intercourse more con-
venient and more eligible.

The resolution to raise an army, it is to be feared, is that one
of the measures suggested which will meet with the greatest
obstacle — and yet it is the one which ought to unite opinion.
Being merely a precaution for internal security, it can in no
sense tend to provoke war ; and looking to eventual security in
a case which, if it should happen, would threaten our very exist-
ence as a nation, it is the most important.

The history of our revolution war is a serious admonition to
it. The American cause had nearly been lost for want of creat-
ing, in the first instance, a solid force commensurate in duration
with the war. Immense additional expense and waste, and a
variety of other evils were incurred, which might have been
avoided.

Suppose an invasion, and that we are left to depend on militia
alone, can it be doubted that a rapid and formidable progress
would, in the first instance, be made by the invaders ? Who can
answer what dismay this might inspire, how far it might go to
create general panic, to rally under the banners of the enemy the
false and the timid? The imagination cannot, without alarm,
anticipate the consequences. Prudence commands that they
shall be guarded against. To have a good army on foot will be
the best of all precautions to prevent, as well as to repel, inva-
sion.

The propriety of the measure is so palpable that it will argue
treachery or incapacity in our councils, if it be not adopted.
The friends of the government owe it to their own characters to
press it : its opposers can give no better proof that they are not
abandoned to a foreign power than to concur in it. The public
safety will be more indebted to its advocates than to the advo-
cates of any other measure, in proportion as our independence
and liberty are of more consequence than our trade.

It is the fervent wish of patriotism that our councils and na-

676 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 41.

tion may be united and resolute. The dearest interests call for it.
A great public danger commands it. Every good man will
rejoice to embrace the adversary of his former opinions, if he will
now by candor and energy evince his attachment to his country.
Whoever does not do this, consigns himself to irrevocable dis-
honor. But it is not the triumph over a political rival which the
true lover of his country desires — it is the safety and the welfare of
that country — and he will gladly share with his bitterest opponent
the glory of defending and preserving her. Americans rouse —
be unanimous, be virtuous, be firm, exert your courage, trust in
Heaven, and nobly defy the enemies both of God and man!

Titus Manlitjs.

vii.

April 21, 1798.

The dispatches from our envoys have at length made their
appearance. They present a picture of the French government
exceeding in turpitude whatever was anticipated from the pre-
vious intimations of their contents. It was natural to expect that
the perusal of them would have inspired a universal sentiment
of indignation and disgust ; and that no man calling himself an
American, would have had the hardihood to defend or even to
palliate a conduct so atrocious. But it is already apparent that
an expectation of this kind would not have been well founded.

There are strong symptoms that men in power in France un-
derstand better than ourselves the true character of their faction
in this country, at least of its leaders ; and that as to these, the
agents who conferred with our envoys were not mistaken in pre-
dicting that the unreasonableness of the demands upon us, would
not serve to detach the party from France, or to reunite them to
}heir own country. The high-priest of this sect, with a tender
regard for the honor of the immaculate Directory, has already
imagined several ingenious distinctions to rescue them from the
odium and corruption unfolded by the dispatches. Among these

Mt. 41.] THE STAND. 677

is the suggestion that there is no proof of the privity of the
Directory — all may have been the mere contrivance of the minis-
ter for foreign relations.

The presumption from so miserable a subterfuge is, that had
the propositions proceeded immediately from the Directory, the
cry from the same quarter would have been — there is no evidence
the council or nation approved of them ; they, at least, are not
implicated ; the friendship of the two republics ought not to be dis-
turbed on account of the villany of the transitory and fugitive
organs of one of them. The inventor of the subterfuge, how-
ever, well knew that the executive organ of a nation never
comes forward in person to negotiate with foreign ministers ; and
that unless it be presumed to direct and adopt what is done by
its agents, it may always be sheltered from responsibility or blame.
The recourse to so pitiful an evasion, betrays in its author a
systematic design to excuse France at all events — to soften a
spirit of submission to every violence she may commit — and to
prepare the way for implicit subjection to her will. To be the
proconsul of a despotic Directory over the United States, de-
graded to the condition of a province, can alone be the criminal,
the ignoble aim of so seditious, so prostitute a character.

The subaltern mercenaries go still farther. Publications have
appeared, endeavoring to justify or extenuate the demands upon
our envoys, and to inculcate the slavish doctrine of compliance.
The United States, it is said, are the aggressors, and ought to
make atonement. France assisted them in their revolution with
loans, and they ought to reciprocate the benefit : peace is a boon
worth the price required for it, and it ought to be paid. In tins
motley form our country is urged to sink voluntarily and with-
out a struggle, to a state of tributary vassalage. Americans are
found audacious and mean enough to join in the chorus of a
foreign nation, which calls upon us to barter our independence
for a respite from the lash.

The charge of aggression upon the United States is false ;
and if true, the reparation, from the nature of the case, ought not
to be pecuniary. This species of indemnification between na-
tions, is only proper where there has been pecuniary injury.

678 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 41.

The loans received by us from France were asked as a favor,
on condition of reimbursement by the United States; and were
freely granted for a purpose of mutual advantage. The ad-
vances to be made by us were exacted as the price of peace.
Though in name loans, they would be in fact contributions, by
the coercion of a power which has already wrested from our citi-
zens an immense property, for which it owes to them compensa-
tion.

To pay such a price for peace, is to prefer peace to indepen-
dence. The nation which becomes tributary takes a master.*
Peace is doubtless precious, but it is a bauble compared with na.
tional independence, which includes national liberty. The evils
of war to resist such a precedent, are insignificant, compared
with the evils of the precedent. Besides that, there could be no
possible security for the enjoyment of the object for which the
disgraceful sacrifice was made. To disguise the poison, misrep-
resentation is combined with sophistry. It is alleged that finally
no more was asked than that the United States should purchase
sixteen millions of Dutch inscriptions, and that by doing this,
they would have secured compensation to their citizens for dep-
redations on their trade to four times the amount, with an in-
termission of the depredations; that no hazard of ultimate loss
could have attended the operation, because the United States
owed the Dutch a much larger sum, which would be a pledge for
payment or discount.

This is a palpable attempt to deceive. The first propositions
were such as have been represented in a former paper ; but it
appears in the sequel that the French agents, seeing the inflexi-
ble opposition of our envoys to their plan, and hoping to extort
finally a considerable sum, though less than at first contem-
plated, relaxed so far in their demands, as to narrow them down

* The argument of what has been done in the cases of Algerines and Indians,
has nothing pertinent but in the comparison of relative ferocity. In this view the
claim of the Directory is indisputable; but in every other it is preposterous. It
is the general practice of civilized nations to pay barbarians ; there is no point of
honor to the contrary. But between civilized nations, the payment of tribute by
one to another, is, by the common opinion of mankind, a badge of servitude.

JEt. 41.] THE STAND. 679

to the payment of a douceur of twelve hundred thousand livres
with a positive engagement to advance to the French govern-
ment a sum equal to the amount of the spoliations of our trade,
and a farther engagement to send to our government for power
to purchase of France thirty-two millions of the inscriptions
(12,800,000 dollars) ; in return for all which, our envoys were to
be permitted to remain six months in Paris, depredations on our
trade during that time were to be suspended, and a commission
of five persons was to be appointed to liquidate the claims for
past depredations which were to be satisfied " in a time and man-
ner to be agreed upon." The substance of these demands is to
pay absolutely twenty millions of dollars more than the estimated
amount of the spoliations ; for what ? Barely for the acknowledg
ment of a debt due to our citizens, which, without it, is not the
less due, and for the suspension of hostilities* for six months.

Afterwards, in a conversation between the French minister
himself and one of our envoys, the propositions assumed another
form. The United States were required to purchase of France
at par sixteen millions of inscriptions, and to promise further aid
when in their power. This arrangement being first made, and not
before, France was to take measures for reimbursing the equita-
ble demands of our citizens on account of captures.

The purchase of the inscriptions was to be a preliminary.
The arrangement for reimbursing our merchants was to follow.
The nature of it was not explained ; but it is to be inferred from
all that preceded, that the expedient of the advance of an equal
sum by the United States would have been pressed as the basis
of the promised arrangement. This last proposal was in its prin-
ciple as bad as either of the former ; its tendency worse. The
promise of future assistance would have carried with it the privi-
lege to repeat at pleasure the demand of money, and to dispute
with us about our ability to supply ; and it would have embark-
ed us as an associate with France in the war. It was to promise
her the most effectual aid in our power, and that of which she
stood most in need.

* It is observable that the French give themselves the denomination of hostili-
ties to their depredations upon us. Our Jacobins would have us consider them as
gentle caresses.

6S0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt 41.

The scheme of concealment was a trick. The interest of
France to engage us in the war against Great Britain, as a mean
of wounding her commerce, is too strong to have permitted the
secret to be kept by her. By the ratification of the treaty, in
which the Senate must have concurred, too many would have
obtained possession of the secret to allow it to remain one.
While it did, the apprehension of discovery would have enabled
France to use it as an engine of unlimited extortion. But a still
greater objection is, that it would have been infamous in the
United States, thus covertly to relinquish their neutrality, and
with equal cowardice and hypocricy to wear the mask of it,
when they had renounced the reality.

The idea of securing our advances, by means of the debt
which we owe to the Dutch, is without foundation. The credi-
tors of the United States are the private citizens of the Batavian
republic. Their demands could not be opposed by a claim of our
government upon their government. The only shape in which
it could be attempted, must be in that of reprisals for the de-
linquency of the government. But this would not only be a
gross violation of the principle, it would be contrary to express
stipulations in the contracts for the loans.*

In the same spirit of deception it has also been alleged that
our envoys, by giving the douceur of twelve hundred thou-
sand livres, and agreeing to send for powers to make a loan}
might have obtained a suspension of depredations for six months
There is not a syllable in the dispatches to countenance this as-
sertion. A large advance in addition, either on the basis of the
spoliations, or by way of purchase of the inscriptions, is uniformly
made the condition of suspending hostilities.

Glosses so false and insidious as these, in a crisis of such im-
minent public danger, to mislead the opinion of our nation con-
cerning the conduct and views of a foreign enemy, are shoots
from a pernicious trunk.

Opportunity alone is wanting to unveil the treason which
lurks at the core.

What signifies the quantum of the contribution had it been

* They all provide against seizure or sequestration by way of reprisals, &c.

JEt. 41.]

THE STAND. 681

really as unimportant as it is represented? Tis the principle
which is to be resisted at every hazard. 'Tis the pretention to
make us tributary, in opposition to which every American ought
to resign the last drop of his blood.

The pratings of the Gallic faction at this time remind us of
those of the British faction at the commencement of our revolu-
tion.

The insignificance of a duty of three pence per pound on tea
was echoed and re-echoed as the bait to an admission of the right
to bind us in all cases whatsoever.

The tools of France incessantly clamor against the treaty
with Britain as the just cause of the resentment of France. It is
curious to remark, that in the conferences with our envoys this
treaty was never once mentioned by the French agents. Parti-
cular passages in the speech of the President are alone specified
as a ground of dissatisfaction. This is at once a specimen of the
fruitful versatility with which causes of complaint are contrived,
and of the very slight foundations on which they are adopted.
A temperate expression of sensibility at an outrageous indignity,
offered to our government by a member of the Directory, is con-
verted into a mortal offence. The tyrants will not endure a
murmur at the blows they inflict. But the dispatches of our
envoys, while they do not sanction the charge preferred by the
Gallic faction against the treaty, confirm a very serious charge
which the friends of the government bring against that faction.
They prove by the unreserved confession of her agents, that France
places absolute dependence on this party in every event, and
counts upon their devotion to her as an encouragement to the
hard conditions which they attempt to impose. The people ot
this country must be infatuated indeed, if after this plain confes-
sion they are at a loss for the true source of the evils they suffer-
ed, or may hereafter suffer from the despots of France. 'Tis the
unnatural league of a portion of our citizens with the oppressors
of their country.

Titus Manlius.

682 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Ex. 41.

A FBENCH FACTION.

1798.

There is a set of men whose mouths are always full of the
phrases, British faction — British agents — British influence. Feel-
ing that they themselves are interested in a foreign faction, they
imagine that it must be so with every one else — and that who-
ever will not join with them in sacrificing the interests of their
country to another country, must be engaged in an opposite
foreign faction — Frenchmen in all their feelings and wishes, they
can see in their opponents nothing but Englishmen. Every true
American — every really independent man, becomes in their eyes,
a British agent — a British emissary.

The truth is, that there is in this country a decided French
faction, but no other foreign faction. I speak as to those who
have a share in the public councils, or in the political influence
of the country — those who adhered to Great Britain during the
revolution may be presumed, generally, to have still a partiality
for her. But the number of those who have at this time any
agency in public affairs, is very insignificant. They are neither
numerous nor weighty enough to form in the public councils a
distinct faction. Nor is it to this description of men that the
passage is applied.

The satellites of France have the audacity to bestow it upon
men who have risked more in opposition to Great Britain, than
but few of them ever did — to men who have given every possible
proof of their exclusive devotion to the interests of their own
country. Let facts speak. The leaders of the French faction
during the war managed to place the minister of the country
abroad in a servile dependence on the ministry of France, and
but for the virtuous independence of those men, which led them
to break their instructions, it is very problematical we should
have had as early, or as good a peace as that we obtained. The
same men, during the same period, effected the revocation of a
commission which had been given for making a commercial

JEt. 42.] THE WAR IN EUROPE. 683

treaty with. Great Britain, and again, on the approach of peace,
defeated an attempt to produce a renewal of that commission,
and thus lost an opportunity known to have been favorable for
establishing a beneficial treaty of commerce with that country —
though they have since made the obtaining of such a treaty, a
pretext for reiterated attempts to renew hostilities with her. The
same men have been constantly laboring, from the first institution
of the present government, to render it subservient, not to the
advancement of our own manufactures, but to the advancement
of the navigation and manufactures of France.

In a proposal which aims at fostering our own navigation
and elevating our own manufactures, by giving them advantages
over those of all foreign nations, a thousand obstacles occur — a
thousand alarms are sounded — usurpation of ungranted powers —
designs to promote the interests of particular parts of the Union
at the expense of other parts of it, and innumerable other spectres
are conjured up to terrify us from the pursuit. Is the project to
confer particular favors upon the navigation and manufactures of
France, even at the expense of the United States — then all diffi-
culties vanish. This is the true and only object of the Constitu-
tion— for this it was framed — by this alone it can live and have
a being. To this precious end, we are assured, the States who
may particularly suffer, will be willing to sacrifice. In this holy
cause we are to risk every thing — our trade, our navigation — our
manufactures — our agriculture — our revenues — our peace. Not
to consent is to want spirit — to want honor — to want patriotism.
Thus does Gallicism assume the honorable part of patriotism.

THE WAK IN EUKOPE.

1799.
Every step of the progress of the present war in Europe has
been marked with horrors. If the perpetration of them was
confined to those who are the acknowledged instruments of des-

684 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 42.

potic power, it would excite less surprise — but when they are
acted upon by those who profess themselves to be the champions
of the rights of man, they naturally occasion both wonder and
regret. Passing by the extreme severities which the French
have exercised in Italy, what shall we think of the following
declarations of Jourdan to the inhabitants of Germany.

■& * * -Jr « -5f

Good God ! is it then a crime for men to defend their own
government and country ? Is it a punishable offence in the Ger-
mans that they will not accept from the French what they offer
as liberty at the point of the bayonet ? This is to confound all
ideas of morality and humanity — it is to trample upon all the
rights of man and nations — it is to restore the ages of barbarism,
according to the laws and practice of modern war ; the peasantry
of a country, if they remain peaceably at home, are protected
from other harm than a contribution to the necessities of the
invading army. Those who join the armies of their country and
fight with them, are considered and treated as other soldiers. But
the present French doctrine is, that they are to be treated as
rebels and criminals.

German patriotism is a heinous offence in the eyes of French
patriots. How are we to solve this otherwise than by observ-
ing that the French are influenced by the same spirit of domina-
tion which governed the ancient Romans. They considered
themselves as having a right to be the masters of the world, and
to treat the rest of mankind as their vassals. How clearly is it
proved by this that the praise of a world is justly due to

Christianity ; — war, by the influence of the humane principles
of that religion, had been stripped of half its horrors. The
French renounce Christianity, and they relapse into barbarism —
war resumes the same hideous and savage form which it wore in
the ages of Gothic and Roman violence.

Mt. 42.] ALLEGORICAL DEVICE. 685

ALLEGORICAL DEVICE.

1799.

A globe, with Europe and part of Africa on one side, Amer-
ica on the other, the Atlantic between. The portion occupied
by America to be larger than that occupied by Europe. A
Colossus to be placed on this globe, with one foot on Europe, the
other extending partly over the Atlantic towards America,
having on his head a quintuple crown, in his right hand an
iron sceptre, projecting but broken in the middle ; in his left
hand a pileus (cap of liberty) reversed — the staff entwined by a
snake with its head downward, having the staff of the pileus
in its mouth, and folding in its tail (as if in the act of strangling)
a label with the words " Rights of Man." Upon a base sup-
ported by fifteen columns erected on the continent of America,
the genius of America to be placed, represented by the figure
of Pallas — a female in armor, with a firm, composed counten-
ance, a golden breast-plate, a spear in her right hand, and an
aegis or shield in her left, having upon it the scales of justice
(instead of the Medusa's head) ; her helmet encircled with wreaths
of olive, her spear striking upon the sceptre of the Colossus and
breaking it asunder ; over her head a radiated crown of glory.
It would improve the allegory to represent the Atlantic in a
tempest, as indicative of rage, and Neptune in the position of
aiming a blow at the Colossus with his trident.

Explanation. — It is known that the globe is an ancient sym-
bol of universal dominion. This, with the Colossus, alluding
to the French Directory, will denote the project of acquiring
such dominion — the position of the Colossus signifying the in-
tent to extend it to America. The Colossus will represent the
American States ; and Pallas, as the genius of America, will in-
timate that though loving peace as a primary object (of which the
olive -wreath is the symbol), yet, guided by wisdom and justice,
America successfully exerts her valor to break the sceptre of
the tyrant.

686 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 42.

MEASUKES OP DEFENCE.

1799.

Further measures advisable to be taken without delay.

I. to authorize the President to proceed forthwith to raise
the 10,000 men already ordered.

II. To establish an academy for military and naval instruc-
tion. This is a very important measure and ought to be perma-
nent.

III. To provide for the immediate raising of a corps of non-
commissioned officers, viz., sergeants and corporals, sufficient
with the present establishment for an army of 50,000 men.
The having these men prepared and disciplined, will accelerate
extremely the disciplining of an additional force.

IV. To provide before Congress rise, that in case it shall
appear that an invasion of this country by a large army is ac-
tually on foot, there shall be a draft from the militia to be class-
ed, of a number sufficient to complete the army of 30,000 men.
Provision for volunteers in lieu of drafts. A bounty to be
given.

V. To authorize the President to provide a further naval
force of six ships of the line, and twelve frigates, with twenty
small vessels not exceeding sixteen guns. It is possible the ships
of the line and frigates may be purchased of Great Britain to be
paid for in stock. We ought to be ready to cut up all the small
privateers and gun-boats in the West Indies, so as at the same
time to distress the French Islands as much as possible and pro-
tect our trade.

VI. Is not the Independence of the French Colonies under
the guarantee of the United States to be aimed at? If it is,
there cannot be too much promptness in opening negotiations
for the purpose. Victor Hughes is probably an excellent sub-
ject. This idea however deserves mature consideration.

VII. It is essential the Executive should have half a million
of secret service money. If the measure cannot be carried

JEt. 43.]

JOHN ADAMS.
Probable produce
500.000.

100.000.

without it, the expenditure may be with the approbation of
three members of each House of Congress. But it were better
without this incumbrance.

VIII. Eevenue in addition to the $2,000,000 of land tax
say:— #

A stamp duty on hats, as well manufactured at
home as imported, distributed into three classes —
10, 15, 25 cents.

Saddle horses one dollar each, excluding those
engaged in agriculture.

Salt so a3 to raise the present duty to 25 cents
per bushel.

Male servants of the capacities by whatever
name: — MaStre d'hotel, house steward, valet de
chambre, butler, under-butler, confectioner, cook,
house porter, waiter, footman, coachman, groom,
postillions, stable boy — for one such servant $1 ;
for two such servants, and not more, $2 each ; for
three such servants, $3 each ; above three, $4 each ;
one dollar additional by bachelors.

New modification with greater diversity of
licenses for sale of wines.

500,000. ' fj? <

100,000.

100,000.

One per cent, on all successions by descent or
devise.

IX. A loan of $10,000,000. The interest to be such as will
insure the loan at par. "lis better to give high interest, redeema-
ble at pleasure, than low interest with accumulation of capital,
as in England.

THE PUBLIC CONDUCT AND CHARACTER OF JOHN
ADAMS, Esq., PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

1800.

Sir:

Some of the warm personal friends of Mr. Adams are taking
unwearied pains to disparage the motives of those federalists
who advocate the equal support of General Pinckney, at the ap-

688 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43

proaching election of President and Vice-President. They are
exhibited under a variety of aspects equally derogatory. Some-
times they are versatile, factious spirits, who cannot be long sat-
isfied with any chief, however meritorious ; sometimes they are
ambitious spirits, who can be contented with no man that will
not submit to be governed by them ; sometimes they are intrigu-
ing partisans of Great Britain, who, devoted to the advancement
of her views, are incensed against Mr. Adams for the independ-
ent impartiality of his conduct.

In addition to a full share of the obloquy vented against this
description of persons collectively, peculiar accusations have
been devised, to swell the catalogue of my demerits. Among
these, the resentment of disappointed ambition, forms a promi-
nent feature. It is pretended, that had the President, upon the
demise of General Washington, appointed me Commander-in-
Chief, he would have been, in my estimation, all that is wise,
and good, and great.

It is necessary, for the public cause, to repel these slanders,
by stating the real views of the persons who are calumniated,
and the reasons of their conduct.

In executing this task, with particular reference to myself, I
ought to premise, that the ground upon which I stand, is different
from that of most of those who are confounded with me in pur-
suit of the same plan. While our object is common, our mo-
tives are variously dissimilar. A part, well affected to Mr.
Adams, have no other wish than to take a double chance against
Mr. Jefferson. Another part, feeling a diminution of confidence
in him, still hope that the general tenor of his conduct will be
essentially right. Few go as far in their objections as I do.
Not denying to Mr. Adams patriotism and integrity, and even
talents of a certain kind, I should be deficient in candor, were
I to conceal the conviction, that he does not possess the talents |
adapted to the administration of government, and that there are
great and intrinsic defects in his character, which unfit him for
the office of chief magistrate.

To give a correct idea of the circumstances which have gra-
dually produced this conviction, it may be useful to retrospect
to an early period.

J3t,43.] JOHN ADAMS. 689

I was one of that numerous class who had conceived a high
veneration for Mr. Adams, on account of the part he acted in
the first stages of our revolution. My imagination had exalted
him to a high eminence, as a man of patriotic, bold, profound, and
comprehensive mind. But in the progress of the war, opinions
were ascribed to him, which brought into question with me, the
solidity of his understanding.

He was represented to be of the number of those who favored
the enlistment of our troops annually, or for short periods, rather
than for the term of the war; a blind and infatuated policy, di-
rectly contrary to the urgent recommendation of General Wash-
ington, and which had nearly proved the ruin of our cause. He
was also said to have advocated the project of appointing yearly
a new commander of the army; a project which, in any service,
is likely to be attended with more evils than benefits ; but which in
ours, at the period in question, was chimerical, from the want of
persons qualified to succeed, and pernicious, from the peculiar
fitness of the officer first appointed, to strengthen, by personal
influence, the too feeble cords which bound to the service an ill-
paid, ill-clothed, and undisciplined soldiery.

It is impossible for me to assert, at this distant day, that these
suggestions were brought home to Mr. Adams in such a manner
as to ascertain their genuineness ; but I distinctly remember their
existence, and my conclusion from them; which was, that, if
true, they proved this gentleman to be infected with some vision-
ary notions, and that he was far less able in the practice, than in
the theory, of politics. I remember, also, that they had the ef-
fect of inducing me to qualify the admiration which I had once
entertained for him, and to reserve for opportunities of future
scrutiny, a definitive opinion of the true standard of his character.

In this disposition I was, when, just before the close of the
war, I became a member of Congress.

The situation in which I found myself there, was far from
being inauspicious to a favorable estimate of Mr. Adams.

Upon my first going into Congress, I discovered symptoms
of a party already formed, too well disposed to subject the inter-
ests of the United States to the management of France. Though
g 44

6(J0 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

I felt, in common with those who had participated in our revo-
lution, a lively sentiment of good will towards a power, whose
co-operation, however it was and ought to have been dictated
by its own interest, had been extremely useful to us, and had
been afforded in a liberal and handsome manner; yet, tenacious
of the real independence of our country, and dreading the pre-
ponderance of foreign influence, as the natural disease of popu-
lar government, I was struck with disgust at the appearance, in
the very cradle of our republic, of a party actuated by an undue
complaisance to a foreign power ; and I resolved at once to resist
this bias in our affairs : a resolution, which has been the chief
cause of the persecution I have endured in the subsequent stages
of my political life.

Among the fruits of the bias I have mentioned, were the
celebrated instructions to our commissioners, for treating of
peace with Great Britain ; which, not only as to final measures,
but also as to preliminary and intermediate negotiations, placed
them in a state of dependence on the French ministry, humiliat-
ing to themselves, and unsafe for the interests-of the country.
This was the more exceptionable, as there was cause to suspect,
that in regard to the two cardinal points of the fisheries and the
navigation of the Mississippi, the policy of the cabinet of Ver-
sailles did not accord with the wishes of the United States.

The commissioners, of whom Mr. Adams was one, had the
fortitude to break through, the fetters which were laid upon them
by those instructions; and there is reason to believe, that by
doing it, they both accelerated the peace with Great Britain, and
improved the terms, while they preserved our faith with France.

Yet a serious attempt was made to obtain from Congress a
formal censure of their conduct. The attempt failed, and instead
of censure, the praise was bestowed which was justly due to the
accomplishment of a treaty advantageous to this country, be-
yond the most sanguine expectation. In this result, my efforts
were heartily united.

The principal merit of the negotiation with Great Britain, in
some quarters, has been bestowed upon Mr. Adams ; but it is cer-
tainly the right of Mr. Jay, who took a lead in the several steps

.Et. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 691

of the transaction, no less honorable to his talents than to his
firmness. The merit, nevertheless, of a full and decisive co-opera-
tion, is justly due to Mr. Adams.

It will readily be seen, that such a course of things was cal-
culated to impress me with a disposition friendly to Mr. Adams.
I certainly felt it, and gave him much of my consideration and
esteem.

But this did not hinder me from making careful observations
upon his several communications, and endeavoring to derive from
them an accurate idea of his talents and character. This scrutiny
enhanced my esteem in the main for his moral qualifications, but
lessened my respect for his intellectual endowments. I then
adopted an opinion, which all my subsequent experience has
confirmed, that he is a man of an imagination sublimated and
eccentric ; propitious neither to the regular display of sound
judgment, nor to steady preseverance in a systematic plan of con-
duct ; and I began to perceive what has been since too manifest,
that to this defect are added the unfortunate foibles of a vanity
without bounds, and a jealousy capable of discoloring every ob-
ject.

Strong evidence of some traits of this character, is to be found
in a journal of Mr. Adams, which was sent by the then Secretary
of Foreign Affairs to Congress. The reading of this journal ex-
tremely embarrassed his friends, especially the delegates of Mas-
sachusetts; who, more than once, interrupted it, and at last,
succeeded in putting a stop to it, on the suggestion that it bore
the marks of a private and confidential paper, which, by some
mistake, had gotten into its present situation, and never could
have been designed as a public document for the inspection of
Congress. The good humor of that body yielded to the sugges-
tion.

The particulars of this journal cannot be expected to have
remained in my memory — but I recollect one which may serve
as a sample. Being among the guests invited to dine with the
Count de Vergennes, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Adams
thought fit to give a specimen of American politeness, by conduct,
ing Madame de Vergennes to dinner ; on the way, she was pleas-

692 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 43

ed to make retribution in the current coin of French politeness —
by saying to him, " Monsieur Adams, vous etes le Washington de
negotiation."* Stating the incident, he makes this comment upon
it : " These people have a very pretty knack of paying compli-
ments." He might have added, they have also a very dexterous
knack of disguising a sarcasm.

The opinion, however, which I have avowed, did not prevent
my entering cordially into the plan of supporting Mr. Adams for
the office of Vice-President, under the new Constitution. I still
thought that he had high claims upon the public gratitude, and pos-
sessed a substantial worth of character, which might atone for
some great defects. In addition to this, it was well known, that
he was a favorite of New England, and it was obvious that his
union with General Washington would tend to give the govern-
ment, in its outset, all the strength which it could derive from
the character of the two principal magistrates.

But it was deemed an essential point of caution to take care,
that accident or an intrigue of the opposers of the government,
should not raise Mr. Adams, instead of General Washington, to
the first place. This, every friend of the government would have
considered as a disastrous event ; as well because it would have
displayed a capricious operation of the system in elevating to the
first station, a man intended for the second ; as because it was
conceived that the incomparably superior weight and transcendent
popularity of General Washington, rendered his presence at the
head of the government, in its first organization, a matter of
primary and indispensable importance. It was therefore agreed
that a few votes should be diverted from Mr. Adams to other
persons, so as to insure to General Washington a plurality.

Great was my astonishment, and equally great my regret,
when, afterwards, I learned from persons of unquestionable veraci-
ty, that Mr. Adams had complained of unfair treatment, in not
having been permitted to take an equal chance with General
Washington, by leaving the votes to an uninfluenced current.

The extreme egotism of the temper, which could blind a man

* Mr. Adams, you are the Washington of negotiation.

JEt. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 698

to considerations so obvious as those that had recommended the
course pursued, cannot be enforced by my comment. It exceeded
all that I had imagined, and showed, in too strong a light, that
the vanity which I have ascribed to him, existed to a degree that
rendered it more than a harmless foible.

Mr. Adams was elected Vice-President. His public conduct,
in that station, was satisfactory to the friends of the government,
though they were now and then alarmed by appearances of some
eccentric tendencies.

It is, in particular, a tribute due from me to acknowledge,
that Mr. Adams being, in quality of Vice-President, ex officio
one of the trustees of the sinking fund, I experienced from him
the most complete support; which was the more gratifying to
me, as I had to struggle against the systematic opposition of Mr.
Jefferson, seconded occasionally by Mr. Randolph. Though it
would be an ill compliment to Mr. Adams, not to presume that
the support which he gave me, was the dictate of his sense of the
public interest ; yet, so cordial and useful a co-operation, at a
moment when I was assailed with all the weapons of party rancor,
won from me an unfeigned return of the most amicable senti-
ments.

I lost no opportunity of combating the prejudices industriously
propagated against him by his political enemies ; and, for a con-
siderable time, went quite as far as candor would permit, to ex-
tenuate the failings which more and more alarmed and dissatisfied
his friends.

The epoch at length arrived, when the retreat of General
Washington made it necessary to fix upon a successor. By this
time, men of principal influence in the federal party, whose sit-
uation had led them to an intimate acquaintance with Mr. Adams's
character, began to entertain serious doubts about his fitness for
the station ; yet, his pretensions, in several respects, were so
strong, that after mature reflection, they thought it better to in-
dulge their hopes than to listen to their fears. To this conclusion,
the desire of preserving harmony in the federal party, was a
weighty inducement. Accordingly it was determined to support
Mr. Adams for the Chief Magistracy.

694 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

It was evidently of much consequence to endeavor to have an
eminent federalist Vice-President. Mr. Thomas Pinckney, of
South Carolina, was selected for this purpose. This gentleman,
too little known in the North, had been all his lifetime distin-
guished in the South, for the mildness and amiableness of his
manners, the rectitude and purity of his morals, and the sound-
ness and correctness of his understanding, accompanied by an
habitual discretion and self-command, which has often occasioned
a parallel to be drawn between him and the venerated Washing-
ton. In addition to these recommendations, he had been, during
a critical period, our minister at the court of London, and recently
envoy extraordinary to the court of Spain ; and in both these
trusts, he had acquitted himself to the satisfaction of all parties.
With the court of Spain he had effected a treaty, which removed
all the thorny subjects of contention, that had so long threatened
the peace of the two countries, and stipulated for the United
States, on their Southern frontier, and on the Mississippi, advan-
tages of real magnitude and importance.

Well-informed men knew that the event of the election was
extremely problematical ; and while the friends of Mr. Jefferson
predicted his success with sanguine confidence, his opposers
feared that he might have at least an equal chance with any
federal candidate.

To exclude him, was deemed, by the federalists, a primary
object. Those of them who possessed the best means of judg-
ing, were of opinion that it was far less important, whether
Mr. Adams or Mr. Pinckney was the successful candidate, than
that Mr. Jefferson should not be the person ; and on this princi-
ple, it was understood among them, that the two first-mentioned
gentlemen should be equally supported ; leaving to casual acces-
sions of votes in favor of the one or the other, to turn the scale
between them.

In this plan I united with good faith; in the resolution, to
which I scrupulously adhered, of giving to each candidate an
equal support. This was done, wherever my influence extend-
ed ; as was more particularly manifested in the State of New-
York, where all the electors were my warm personal or political

JEr. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 695

friends, and all gave a concurrent vote for the two federal can-
didates.

It is true that a faithful execution of this plan would have
given Mr. Pinckney a somewhat better chance than Mr. Adams ;
nor shall it be concealed, that an issue favorable to the former
would not have been disagreeable to me ; as indeed I declared
at the time, in the circles of my confidential friends.* My po-
sition was, that if chance should decide in favor of Mr. Pinckney,
it probably would not be a misfortune ; since he, to every es-
sential qualification for the office, added a temper far more dis-
creet and conciliatory than that of Mr. Adams.

This disposition, on my part, at that juncture, proves, at
least, that my disapprobation of Mr. Adams has not originated
in the disappointment, to which it has been uncandidly attributed.
No private motive could then have entered into it. Not the
least collision or misunderstanding had ever happened between
that gentleman and myself — on the contrary, as I have already
stated, I had reason individually to be pleased with him.

No: The considerations which had reconciled me to the suc-
cess of Mr. Pinckney, were of a nature exclusively public.
They resulted from the disgusting egotism, the distempered jeal-
ousy, and the ungovernable indiscretion of Mr. Adams's temper,
joined to some doubts of the correctness of his maxims of ad-
ministration. Though in matters of finance he had acted with
the federal party; yet he had, more than once, broached the-
ories at variance with his practice. And in conversation, he
repeatedly made excursions in the field of foreign politics, which
alarmed the friends of the prevailing system.

The plan of giving equal support to the two federal candi-
dates, was not pursued. Personal attachment for Mr. Adams,
especially in the New England States, caused a number of the
votes to be withheld from Mr. Pinckney, and thrown away.
The result was, that Mr. Adams was elected President by a
majority of two votes, and Mr. Jefferson Vice-President.

This issue demonstrated the wisdom of the plan which had

* I appeal particularly to Lt. Governor Van Rensselaer and R. Troup, Esq.
HAMILTON'S WORKS. T^Et. 43.

been abandoned, and how greatly, in departing from it, the
cause had been sacrificed to the man. But for a sort of mir-
acle, the departure would have made Mr. Jefferson President.
In each of the States of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and North-
Carolina, Mr. Adams had one vote. In the two latter States,
the one vote was as much against the stream of popular pre-
judice, as it was against the opinions of the other electors.
The firmness of the individuals who separated from their col-
leagues, was so extraordinary, as to have been contrary to all
probable calculation. Had only one of them thrown his vote
into the other scale, there would have been an equality, and no
election. Had two done it, the choice would have fallen upon
Mr. Jefferson.

No one, sincere in the opinion that this gentleman was an
ineligible and dangerous candidate, can hesitate in pronouncing,
that in dropping Mr. Pinckney, too much was put at hazard ;'
and that those who promoted the other course, acted with pru-
dence and propriety.

It is a fact, which ought not to be forgotten, that Mr. Adams,
who had evinced discontent, because he had not been permitted
to take an equal chance with General Washington, was enraged
with all those who had thought that Mr. Pinckney oughtTto
have had an equal chance with him. But in this there is per-
fect consistency. The same turn of temper is the solution of
the displeasure in both cases.

It is to this circumstance of the equal support of Mr. Pinck-
ney, that we are in a great measure to refer the serious schism
which has since grown up in the federal party.

Mr. Adams never could forgive the men who had been
engaged in the plan ; though it embraced some of his most par-
tial admirers. He has discovered bitter animosity against sev-
eral of them. Against me, his rage has been so vehement, as
to have caused him, more than once, to forget the decorum
which, in his situation, ought to have been an inviolable law.
It will not appear an exaggeration to those who have studied
his character, to suppose that he is capable of being alienated
from a system to which he has been attached, because it is up-

At. 43.]

JOHN ADAMS. 697

held by men whom he hates. How large a share this may
have had in some recent aberrations, cannot easily be deter-
mined.

Occurrences which have either happened or come to light
since the election of Mr. Adams to the Presidency, confirming
my unfavorable forebodings of his character, have given new
and decisive energy, in my mind, to the sentiment of his unfit-
ness for the station.

The letter which has just appeared in the public prints, writ-
ten by him, while Yice-President, to Tench Coxe, is of itself
conclusive evidence of the justness of this sentiment. It is
impossible to speak of this transaction in terms suited to its
nature, without losing sight that Mr. Adams is President of the
United States.

This letter avows the suspicion, that the appointment of Mr.
Pinckney to the court of London, had been procured or promot-
ed by British influence. And considering the parade with
which the story of the Duke of Leeds is told, it is fair to consid-
er that circumstance as the principal, if not the sole, ground of
the odious and degrading suspicion.

Let any man of candor or knowledge of the world, pronounce
on this species of evidence.

It happened unfortunately for the Pinckneys, that, while
boys, and long before our revolution, they went to school with a
British duke, who was afterwards minister of the British govern-
ment for the foreign department. This indiscreet duke, perhaps
for no better reason than the desire of saying something to a
parting American minister, and the want of something better to
say, divulges to him the dangerous secret, that the two Pinck-
neys had been his class-mates, and goes the alarming length of
making inquiry about their health. From this, it is sagaciously
inferred, that these gentlemen have " many powerful old friends in
England;" and from this again, that the Duke of Leeds (of course
of the number of these old friends) had procured by intrigue the
appointment of one of his class-mates to the court of London ; or,
in the language of the letter, that much British influence had
been exerted in the appointment.

698 HAMILTON'S WORKS. \Mt. 43.

In the school of jealousy, stimulated by ill-will, logic like this
may pass for substantial ; but what is it in the school of reason
and justice ?

Though this contaminating connection of the Pinekneys with
the Duke of Leeds, in their juvenile years, did not hinder them
from fighting for the independence of their native country
throughout our revolution ; yet, the supposition is, that the in-
stant the war was terminated, it transformed them from the
soldiers of liberty into the tools of the British monarchy.

But the hostility of the Pinekneys to Mr. Adams, evidenced
by their " long intrigue " against him, of which he speaks in the
letter, is perhaps intended as a still stronger proof of their devo-
tion to Great Britain — the argument may be thus understood.
Mr. Adams is the bulwark of his country against foreign in-
fluence. The batteries of every foreign power, desirous of ac-
quiring an ascendant in our affairs, are of consequence always
open against him — and, the presumption, therefore, must be, that
every citizen who is his enemy, is the confederate of one or
another of those foreign powers.

Let us, without contesting this argument of self-love, examine
into the facts upon which its applicability must depend.

The evidence of the "long intrigue" seems to be, that the
family of the Pinekneys contributed to limit the duration of Mr.
Adams's commission to the court of London to the term of three
years, in order to make way for some of themselves to succeed
him. This, it must be confessed, was a long-sighted calculation
in a government like ours.

A summary of the transaction will be the best comment on
the inference which has been drawn.

The resolution of Congress by which Mr. Adams's commission
was limited, was a general one, applying to the commissions of
all ministers to foreign courts. When it was proposed and
adopted, it is certain that neither of the two Pinekneys was a
member of Congress ; and it is believed that they were both at
Charleston, in South Carolina, their usual place of abode, more
than eight hundred miles distant from the seat of government.

But they had, it seems, a cousin, Mr. Charles Pinckney, who

JEt.43.} JOHN ADAMS. 699

was in Congress ; and this cousin it was who moved the re-
strictive resolution. Let us inquire who seconded and who
voted for it.

It was seconded by Mr. Howell, a member from Khode Island,
the very person who nominated Mr. Adams as minister to Great
Britain, and was voted for by the four Eastern States, with New-
York, New Jersey, Maryland and South Carolina. Mr. Gerry,
always a zealous partisan of Mr. Adams, was among the sup-
porters of the resolution. To make out this to be a machination
of the two Pinckneys, many things must be affirmed : — First,
that their cousin Charles is always subservient to their views
(which would equally prove that they have long been, and still
are, opposers of the Federal Administration :) — Second, that this
cunning wight had been able to draw the four Eastern /States into
his plot, as well as New-York, New Jersey, Maryland, and South
Carolina : — Third, that the Pinckneys could foresee, at the dis-
tance of three years, the existence of a state of things which
would enable them to reap the fruit of their contrivance.

Would not the circumstances better warrant the suspicion
that the resolution was a contrivance of the friends of Mr. Adams
to facilitate in some way his election, and that Mr. Pinckney was
their coadjutor, rather than their prompter?

But the truth most probably is, that the measure was a mere
precaution to bring under frequent review the propriety of con-
tinuing a minister at a particular court, and to facilitate the re-
moval of a disagreeable one, without the harshness of formally
displacing him. In a policy of this sort, the cautious maxims of
New England would very naturally have taken a lead.

Thus, in the very grounds of the suspicion, as far as they
appear, we find its refutation. The complete futility of it will
now be illustrated by additional circumstances.

It is a fact, that the rigor with which the war was prosecuted
by the British armies in our Southern quarter, had produced
among the friends of our revolution there, more animosity against
the British government, than in the other parts of the United
States : and it is a matter of notoriety, in the same quarter, that
this disposition was conspicuous among the Pinckneys, and their

^00 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JBx. *&

connections. It may be added, that they were likewise known
to have been attached to the French revolution, and to have con-
tinued so, till long after the appointment of Mr. Thomas Pinck-
ney to the court of London.

These propensities of the gentlemen, were certainly not such
as to make them favorites of Great Britain, or the appointment
of one of them to that court, an object of particular solicitude.

As far as appeared at the time, the idea of nominating Mr.
Thomas Pinckney, originated with the then President himself:
but whatever may have been its source, it is certain that it met
the approbation of the whole administration, Mr. Jefferson in-
cluded. This fact alone, will go far to refute the surmise of a
British agency in the appointment.

Supposing that, contrary to all probability, Great Britain had
really taken some unaccountable fancy for Mr. Pinckney, upon
whom was her influence exerted ?

Had the virtuous, circumspect Washington been ensnared in
her insidious toils ? Had she found means for once to soften the
stern, inflexible hostility of Jefferson ? Had Eandolph been won
by her meretricious caresses ? Had Knox, the uniform friend of
Mr. Adams, been corrupted by her seducing wiles ? Or was it
all the dark work of the alien Secretary of the Treasury ? Was
it this arch juggler, who debauched the principles, or transformed
the prejudices of Mr. Pinckney; who persuaded the British
government to adopt him as a pliant instrument ; who artfully
induced the President to propose him as of his own selection ;
who lulled the zealous vigilance of Jefferson and Randolph, and
surprised the unsuspecting frankness of Knox ?

But when the tiling had been accomplished, no matter by
what means, it was surely to have been expected that the man of
its choice would have been treated at the court of London with
distinguished regard, and that his conduct towards that court
would have been marked, if not by some improper compliances,
at least by some displays of extraordinary complaisance.

Yet, strange as it may appear, upon Mr. Adams's hypothesis,
it might be proved, if requisite, that neither the one nor the
other took place. It might be proved that, far from Mr. Pinck-

;Et. 43.]

JOHN ADAMS. 701

ney's having experienced any flattering distinctions, incidents not
pleasant to his feelings had occurred, and that in the discharge
of his official functions he had advanced pretensions in favor of
the United States, from which, with the approbation of the then
Secretary of State, Mr. Jefferson, he was instructed to desist.

"What will Mr. Adams or his friends reply to all these facts?
How will he be excused for indulging and declaring, on grounds
so frivolous, a suspicion so derogatory of a man so meritorious —
of a man who has acted in a manner so unexceptionable ?

But a more serious question remains : How will Mr. Adams
answer to the government and to his country, for having thus
wantonly given the sanction of his opinion to the worst of the
aspersions which the enemies of the administration have impu-
dently thrown upon it ? Can we be surprised that such a tor-
rent of slander was poured out against it, when a man, the second
in official rank, the second in the favor of the friends of the gov-
ernment, stooped to become himself one of its calumniators?
It is peculiarly unlucky for Mr. Adams in this affair, that he is
known to have desired, at the time, the appointment which was
given to Mr. Pinckney. The President declined the measure,
thinking that it was compatible neither with the spirit of the
Constitution nor with the dignity of the Government, to designate
the Vice-President to such a station.

This letter, better than volumes, developes the true, the un-
fortunate character of Mr. Adams.

The remaining causes of dissatisfaction Avith him respect his
conduct in the office of President, which, in my opinion, has
been a heterogeneous compound of right and wrong, of wisdom
and error.

The outset was distinguished by a speech which his friends
lamented as temporizing. It had the air of a lure for the favor
of his opponents at the expense of his sincerit}^ ; but being of an
equivocal complexion, to which no precise design can be an-
nexed, it is barely mentioned as a circumstance, which, in con-
junction with others of a more positive tint, may serve to explain
character.

It is in regard to our foreign relations, that the public
measures of Mr. Adams first attract criticism.

702 HAMILTON'S WORKS [Mr.- 43.

It will be recollected that General Pinckney, the brother of
Thomas, and the gentleman now supported together with Mr.
Adams, had been deputed by President Washington as successor
to Mr. Monroe, and had been refused to be received by the
French government in his quality of minister plenipotentiary.

This, among those of the well informed, who felt a just sensi-
bility for the honor of their country, excited much disgust and
resentment. But the opposition party, ever too ready to justify
the French government at the expense of their own, vindicated
or apologized for the ill treatment : and the mass of the commu-
nity, though displeased with it, did not appear to feel the full
force of the indignity.

As a final effort for accommodation, and as a mean, in case of
failure, of enlightening and combining public opinion, it was re-
solved to make another, and a more solemn, experiment, in the
form of a commission of three.

This measure (with some objections to the detail) was ap-
proved by all parties ; by the anti-federalists, because they
thought no evil so great as the rupture with France ; by the
federalists, because it was their system to avoid war with every
power, if it could be done without the sacrifice of essential in-
terests or absolute humiliation.

Even such of them who conceived that the insults of the
French government, and the manifestation of its ill-will, had
already gone far enough to call for measures of vigor, perceiving
that the nation was not generally penetrated with the same con-
viction, and would not support with zeal measures of that nature,
unless their necessity was rendered still more apparent, acquiesced
in the expediency of another mission. They hoped that it would
serve either to compose the differences which existed, or to make
the necessity of resistance to the violence of France, palpable to
every good citizen.

The expediency of the step was suggested to Mr. Adams,
through a federal channel, a considerable time before he deter-
mined to take it. He hesitated whether it could be done after
the rejection of General Pinckney, without national debasement.
The doubt was an honorable one ; it was afterwards very pro-

^T. 43.]

JOHN ADAMS. 703

perly surrendered to the cogent reasons which pleaded for a
further experiment.

The event of this experiment is fresh in our recollection.
Our envoys, like our minister, were rejected. Tribute was de-
manded as a preliminary to negotiation. To their immortal
honor, though France at the time was proudly triumphant, they
repelled the disgraceful pretension. Americans will never forget
that General Pinckney was a member, and an efficient member,
of this commission.

This conduct of the French government, in which it is diffi-
cult to say, whether despotic insolence or unblushing corruption
was most prominent, electrified the American people with a be-
coming indignation. In vain the partisans of France attempted
to extenuate. The public voice was distinct and audible. The
nation, disdaining so foul an overture, was ready to encounter
the worst consequences of resistance.

Without imitating the flatterers of Mr. Adams, who, in dero-
gation from the intrinsic force of circumstances, and from the
magnanimity of the nation, ascribe to him the whole merits of
producing the spirit which appeared in the community, it shall
with cheerfulness be acknowledged that he took upon the occa-
sion a manly and courageous lead — that he did all in his power
to rouse the pride of the nation — to inspire it with a just sense
of the injuries and outrages which it had experienced, and to
dispose it to a firm and magnanimous resistance ; and that his
efforts contributed materially to the end.

The friends of the government were not agreed as to ulterior
measures. Some were for immediate and unqualified war; oth-
ers for a more mitigated course; the dissolution of treaties, pre-
paration of force by land and sea, partial hostilities of a defensive
tendency ; leaving to France the option of seeking accommoda-
tion, or proceeding to open war. The latter course prevailed.

Though not as bold and energetic as the other, yet, consider-
ing the prosperous state of French affairs when it was adopted,
and how many nations had been appalled and prostrated by the
French power, the conduct pursued bore sufficiently the marks
of courage and elevation to raise the national character to an ex-
alted height throughout Europe.

704 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 43.

Much is it to be deplored that we should have been precipi-
tated from this proud eminence without necessity, without temp-
tation.

The latter conduct of the President forms a painful contrast
to his commencement. Its effects have been directly the reverse.
It has sunk the tone of the public mind — it has impaired the
confidence of the friends of the government in the executive
chief — it has distracted public opinion — it has unnerved the pub-
lic councils — it has sown the seeds of discord at home, and low-
ered the reputation of the government abroad. The circum-
stances which preceded, aggravate the disagreeableness of the
results. They prove that the injudicious things which have been
acted, were not the effects of any regular plan, but the fortuitous
emanations of momentary impulses.

The session, which ensued the promulgation of the dispatches
of our commissioners, was about to commence. Mr. Adams ar-
rived at Philadelphia from his seat at Quincy. The tone of his
mind seemed to have been raised, rather than depressed.

It was suggested to him, that it might be expedient to insert
in his speech to Congress, a sentiment of this import: That after
the repeatedly rejected advances of this country, its dignity re-
quired that it should be left with France in future to make the
first overture; that if, desirous of reconciliation, she should
evince the disposition by sending a minister to this government,
he would be received with the respect due to his character, and
treated with in the frankness of a sincere desire of accommo-
dation.

The suggestion was received in a manner both indignant and
intemperate.

Mr. Adams declared, as a sentiment which he had adopted on
mature reflection: — That if France should send a minister to-mor-
row, he icould order him back the day after.

So imprudent an idea was easily refuted. Little argument
was requisite to show that, by a similar sj^stem of retaliation,
when one government in a particular instance had refused the
envoy of another, nations might entail upon each other perpetual
hostility, mutually barring the avenues of explanation.

jEt. 43.J JOHN ADAMS. 705

In less than forty-eight hours from this extraordinary sally,
the mind of Mr. Adams underwent a total revolution — he resolv-
ed not only to insert in his speech the sentiment which had been
proposed to him, but to go farther, and to declare, that if France
would give explicit assurances of receiving a minister from this
country, with due respect, he would send one.

In vain was this extension of the sentiment opposed by all his
ministers, as being equally incompatible with good policy, and
with the dignity of the nation — he obstinately persisted, and the
pernicious declaration was introduced.

I call it pernicious, because it was the groundwork of the
false steps which have succeeded.

The declaration recommended to the President was a prudent
one.

The measures of Congress, by their mitigated form, showed
that an eye had been still kept upon pacification. A numerous
party were averse from war with France at any rate. In the rest
of the community, a strong preference of honorable accommodation
to final rupture was discernible, even amidst the effusions of re-
sentment.

The charges which we had exhibited in the face of the world
against the French government, were of a high and disgraceful
complexion; they had been urged with much point and em-
phasis.

To give an opening to France to make conciliatory proposi-
tions, some salve for her pride was necessary. It was also
necessary she should be assured that she would not expose herself
to an affront by a refusal to receive the agent whom she might
employ for that purpose. The declaration proposed fulfilled both
objects.

It was likely to have another important advantage. It would
be a new proof to the American people of the moderate and
pacific temper of their government ; which would tend to pre-
serve their confidence, and to dispose them more and more to
meet inevitable extremities with fortitude and without murmurs.

But the supplement to the declaration was a blamable excess.
It was more than sufficient for the ends to be answered. It waived
G 45
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 43.

the point of honor, which, after two rejections of our ministers,
required that the next mission between the two countries should
proceed from France. After the mortifying humiliations we had
endured, the national dignity demanded that this point should
not be departed from without necessity. No such necessity
could be pretended to exist : moreover, another mission by us
would naturally be regarded as evidence of a disposition on our
part to purchase the friendship of revolutionary France, even at
the expense of honor ; an impression which could hardly fail to
injure our interests with other countries : and the measure would
involve the further inconvenience of transferring the negotiation
from this country, where our government could regulate it accord-
ing to its own view of exigencies, to France, where that advantage
would be enjoyed by her government, and where the power of
judging for us must be delegated to commissioners ; who, acting
under immense individual responsibility, at a distance too great
for consultation, would be apt to act with hesitancy and irresolu-
tion, whether the policy of the case required concession or firm-
ness. This was to place it too much in the power of France to
manage the progress of the negotiation according to events.

It has been said that Paris was wisely preferred as the place
of negotiation, because it served to avoid the caballings of a
French minister in this country. But there is not enough in
this argument to counterbalance the weighty considerations on
the other side. The intrigues of Genet and his successors were
perplexing to the government, chiefly because they were too well
seconded by the prepossessions of the people. The great altera-
tion in public opinion, had put it completely in the power of our
executive to control the machinations of any future public agent
of France. It ought also to be remembered, that if France has
not known agents, she never will be without secret ones, and
that her partisans among our citizens can much better promote
her cause than any agents she can send. In fact, her agents, by
their blunders, were in the event rather useful than pernicious to
our affairs.

But is it likely that France would have sent a minister to this
country ? When we find, that from calculations of policy she

jEt. 43."j JOHN ADAMS. 707

could brook the ignominy which the publication of the dispatches
of our commissioners was calculated to bring upon her ; and
stifling her resentment, could invite the renewal of negotiation ;
what room can there be to doubt, that the same calculations would
have induced her to send a minister to this country when an
opening was given for it ?

The French minister for foreign relations, through the French
diplomatic agent at the Hague, had opened a communication with
Mr. Murray, our resident there, for the purpose of reviving nego-
tiation between the two countries. In this manner, assurances
were given that France was disposed to treat, and that a minister
from us would be received and accredited. But they were ac-
companied with intimations of the characters proper to be employ-
ed, and who would be likely to succeed ; which was exceptionable,
both as it savored of the pretension (justly censured by the
President himself) of prescribing to other governments how they
were to manage their own affairs ; and as it might, according to
circumstances, be construed into a tacit condition of the promise
to receive a minister. Overtures so circuitous and informal,
through a person who was not the regular organ of the French
government for making them, to a person who was not the regu-
lar organ of the American government for receiving them, might
be a very fit mode of preparing the way for the like overtures in
a more authentic and obligatory shape. But they were a very
inadequate basis for the institution of a new mission.

When the President pledged himself in his speech to send a
minister, if satisfactory assurances of a proper reception were
given, he must have been understood to mean such as were direct
and official, not such as were both informal and destitute of a
competent sanction.

Yet upon this loose and vague foundation, Mr. Adams pre-
cipitately nominated Mr. Murray as envoy to the French Kepublic,
without previous consultation with any of his ministers. The
nomination itself was to each of them, even to the Secretary of
State, his constitutional counsellor in similar affairs, the first
notice of the project.

Thus was the measure wrong, both as to mode and substance.

708 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

A President is not bound to conform to the advice of his
ministers. He is even under no positive injunction to ask or re-
quire it. But the Constitution presumes that he will consult them ;
and the genius of our government and the public good recommend
the practice.

As the President nominates his ministers, and may displace
them when he pleases, it must be his own fault if he be not sur-
rounded by men, who for ability and integrity deserve his con-
fidence. And if his ministers are of this character, the consult-
ing of them will always be likely to be useful to himself and to
the state. Let it even be supposed that he is a man of talents
superior to the collected talents of all his ministers (which can
seldom happen, as the world has seen but few Fredericks), he
may, nevertheless, often assist his judgment by a comparison
and collision of ideas. The greatest genius, hurried away by the
rapidity of its own conceptions, will occasionally overlook obsta-
cles which ordinary and more phlegmatic men will discover, and
which, when presented to his consideration, will be thought by
himself decisive objections to his plans.

When, unhappily, an ordinary man dreams himself to be a
Frederick, and through vanity refrains from counselling with
his constitutional advisers, he is very apt to fall into the hands
of miserable intriguers, with whom his self-love is more at ease,
and who without difficulty slide into his confidence, and by flat-
tery govern him.

The ablest men may profit by advice. Inferior men cannot
dispense with it ; and if they do not get it through legitimate
channels, it will find its way to them, through such as are clan-
destine and impure.

Very different from the practice of Mr. Adams was that of
the modest and sage Washington. He consulted much, ponder-
ed much, resolved slowly, resolved surely.

And as surely, Mr. Adams might have benefited by the ad-
vice of his ministers.

The stately system of not consulting ministers is likely to
have a further disadvantage. It will tend to exclude from
places of primary trust the men most fit to occupy them.

jEt. 43.]

JOHN ADAMS. 709

Few and feeble are the interested inducements to accept a
place in our administration. Far from being lucrative, there is
not one which will not involve pecuniary sacrifice to every honest
man of pre-eminent talents. And has not experience shown,
that he must be fortunate indeed, if even the successful execu-
tion of his task can secure to him consideration and fame? Of
a large harvest of obloquy he is sure.

If excluded from the counsels of the Executive Chief, his
office must become truly insignificant. What able and virtuous
man will long consent to be so miserable a pageant?

Every thing that tends to banish from the Administration
able men, tends to diminish the chances of able counsels. The
probable operation of a system of this kind, must be to consign
places of the highest trust to incapable honest men, whose in-
ducement will be a livelihood, or to capable dishonest men, who
will seek indirect indemnifications for the deficiency of direct
and fair inducements.

The precipitate nomination of Mr. Murray, brought Mr.
Adams into an awkward predicament.

He found it necessary to change his plan in its progress, and
instead of one, to nominate three envoys, and to superadd a pro-
mise, that, though appointed, they should not leave the United
States till further and more perfect assurances were given by the
French government.

This remodification of the measure was a virtual acknow-
ledgment that it had been premature. How unseemly was this
fluctuation in the Executive Chief. It argued either instability
of views, or want of sufficient consideration beforehand. The
one or the other, in an affair of so great moment, is a serious
reproach.

Additional and more competent assurances were received;
but before the envoys departed, intelligence arrived of a new re-
volution in the French government ; which, in violation of the
Constitution, had expelled two of the Directory.

Another revolution : another Constitution overthrown. Sure-
ly here was reason for a pause, at least till it was ascertained
that the new Directory would adhere to the engagement of i+'

flO HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[Mr. 43.

predecessors, and would not send back our envoys with dis-
grace.

In the then posture of French affairs, which externally as
well as internally were unprosperous, a pause was every way
prudent. The recent revolution was a valid motive for it.

Definitive compacts between nations, called real treaties, are
binding, notwithstanding revolutions of governments. But to
apply the maxim to ministerial acts, preparatory only to nego-
tiation, is to extend it too far ; to apply it to such acts of an
unstable revolutionary government (like that of France at that
time) is to abuse it.

Had any policy of the moment demanded it, it would have
been not at all surprising to have seen the new Directory disa-
vowing the assurance which had been given, and imputing it as
a crime to the ex-directors, on the pretence that they had pros-
trated the dignity of the republic by courting the renewal of ne-
gotiation with a government which had so grossly insulted it.

Yet our envoys were dispatched without a ratification of the
assurance by the new Directory, at the hazard of the interests
and the honor of the country.

Again, the dangerous and degrading system of not consult-
ing ministers, was acted upon.

When the news of the revolution in the Directory arrived,
Mr. Adams was at his seat in Massachusetts. His ministers ad-
dressed to him a joint letter, communicating the intelligence, and
submitting to his consideration, whether that event ought not to
suspend the projected mission. In a letter which he afterwards
wrote from the same place, he directed the preparation of a draft
of instructions for the envoys, and intimated that their departure
would be suspended for some time.

Shortly after he came to Trenton, where he adjusted with his
ministers the tenor of the instructions to be given ; but he ob-
served a profound silence on the question, whether it was expe-
dient that the mission should proceed. The morning after the
instructions were settled, he signified to the Secretary of State
that the envoys were immediately to depart.

He is reported to have assigned as the reason of his silence,

JEt. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. T 1 1

that he knew the opinions of his ministers from their letter ; that
he had irrevocably adopted an opposite one ; and that he deem-
ed it most delicate not to embarrass them by a useless dis-
cussion.

But would it not have been more prudent to have kept his
judgment in some degree of suspense, till after an interview and
discussion with his ministers? Ought he to have taken it for
granted that the grounds of his opinion were so infallible, that
there was no possibility of arguments being used which were
sufficient to shake them ? Ought he not to have recollected the
sudden revolution which his judgment had undergone in the be-
ginning of the business, and to have inferred from this, that it
might have yielded in another instance to better lights? Was
it necessary for him, if he had had a conference with his minis-
ters, to have alarmed their delicacy, by prefacing the discussion
with a declaration that he had fixed an unalterable opinion?
Did not the intimation respecting a suspension of the departure
of the envoys, imply that this would continue till there was a
change of circumstances ? Was it not a circumstance to strength-
en expectation in the ministers, when consulted about the in-
structions, that they would be heard as to the principal point,
previous to a definitive resolution ?

Giving Mr. Adams credit for sincerity, the desultoriness of
his mind is evinced by the very different grounds upon which, at
different times, he has defended the propriety of the mission.

Sometimes he has treated with ridicule the idea of its being
a measure which would terminate in peace ; asserting that France
would not accommodate, on terms admissible by the United
States, and that the effect to be expected from the mission, was
the demonstration of this truth, and the union of public opinion
on the necessity of war.

Sometimes, and most frequently, he has vindicated the
measure as one conformable with the general and strong wish of
the country for peace, and as likely to promote that desirable
object.

It is now earnestly to be hoped, that the final issue of the
mission, in an honorable accommodation, may compensate for the

712 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 43.

sacrifice of consistency, dignity, harmony, and reputation, at
which it has been undertaken.

But even in relation to the adjustment of differences with the
French Republic, the measure was injudicious. It was probable
that it would delay, rather than accelerate, such an adjustment.

The situation of French affairs, at the time of the overtures
for renewing the negotiation, coincides with the solicitude which
was manifested for that object, to render it likely that, at this
juncture, France really desired accommodation. If this was so,
it is presumable (as observed in another place) that, had not the
declaration about sending a minister to her intervened, she would
have sent one to us, with adequate powers and instructions.
Towards a minister here, our government might have acted such
a part as would have hastened a conclusion ; and the minister,
conforming to the impressions of his government when he was
sent, it is not improbable that a desirable arrangement might
some time since have been effected.

Instead of this, the mode pursued naturally tended to delay.
A lapse of time, by changing the circumstances, is very apt to
change the views of governments. The French agents, charged
with the negotiation at Pans, could find little difficulty in pro-
tracting it till events (such as the fate of a campaign) should be
ascertained, as a guide to rise or fall in their pretensions. And
in this way, obstacles might supervene, which would not have
existed in the beginning, and which might render accommodation
impracticable — or practicable only on terms injurious to our in-
terests.

Thus, on every just calculation, whatever may be the issue,
the measure, in reference either to our internal or foreign affairs,
even to our concerns with France herself, was alike impolitic.

It is sometimes defended by the argument, that when our
commissioners departed, there were circumstances in the position
of Europe which made a general peace during the succeeding
winter probable, and that it would have been dangerous for this
country, remote as it is from Europe, to have been without agents
on the spot authorized to settle its controversy with France, at
the same epoch. The country, it is said, might otherwise have

Mr. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 713

been left in the perilous situation of having a subsisting quarrel
with France, after she had disembarrassed herself of all her
European enemies.

The idea that a general peace was likely to happen during
that winter, was, I know, entertained by Mr. Adams himself;
for, in a casual conversation at Trenton, he expressed it to me,
and I supported a different opinion. But waiving now a discus-
sion of the point, and admitting that the expectation was enter-
tained on substantial grounds, though it has not been verified by
experience, still the argument deduced from it is not valid.

The expediency of the measure must be tested by the state of
things when it had its inception. At the time the foundation
was laid for it by the speech, when even the nomination of Mr.
Murray took place, the affairs of France and of her enemies
portended a result very inauspicious to her, and very different
from that of a general peace, on conditions which would leave
her the inclination or the power to prosecute hostilities against
this country.

But even on the supposition of other prospects, Mr. Adams
had the option of a substitute far preferable to the expedient
which he chose.

He might secretly and confidentially have nominated one or
more of our ministers actually abroad for the purpose of treating
with France ; with eventual instructions predicated upon appear-
ances of an approaching peace.

An expedient of this sort, merely provisory, could have had
none of the bad effects of the other. If the secret was kept, it
could have had no inconvenient consequences ; if divulged, it
would have been deemed here and elsewhere, a prudent precau-
tion only, recommended by the distant situation of the country,
to meet future casualties, with which we might otherwise not
have been able to keep pace. To the enemies of France, it
could have given no ill impression of us ; to France, no motive
to forbear other conciliatory means, for one and the same reason,
namely, because the operation was to be eventual.

There are some collateral incidents connected with this busi-
ness of the mission, which it may not be useless to mention, as

T14 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 43.

they will serve still farther to illustrate the extreme propensity
of Mr. Adams's temper to jealousy.

It happened that I arrived at Trenton a short time before the
President — Chief Justice Elsworth a short time after him. This
was considered as evidence of a combination between the heads
of departments, the Chief Justice and myself, to endeavor to in-
fluence or counteract him in the affair of the mission.

The truth, nevertheless, most certainly is, that I went to
Trenton with General Wilkinson, pursuant to a preconcert with
him of some weeks' standing, to accelerate, by personal confer-
ences with the Secretary of War, the adoption and execution of
arrangements which had been planned between that general and
myself, for the future disposition of the western army ; that
when I left New-York upon this journey, I had no expectation
whatever that the President would come to Trenton, and that I
did not stay at this place a day longer than was indispensable to
the object 1 have stated. General Wilkinson, if necessary, might
be appealed to, not only as knowing that this was a real and sincere
purpose of my journey, but as possessing satisfactory evidence,
that in all probability I had no anticipation of the movement of
the President.

As to Chief Justice Elsworth, the design of his journey was
understood to be to meet his colleague, Governor Davy, at the
seat of the government, where they would be at the fountain
head of information, and would obtain any lights or explanations
which they might suppose useful. This was manifestly a very
natural and innocent solution of the Chief Justice's visit, and I
believe the true one.

Yet these simple occurrences were to the jealous mind of Mr.
Adams, "confirmation strong," of some mischievous plot against
his independence.

The circumstance, which next presents itself to examination,
is the dismission of the two secretaries, Pickering and M 'Henry.
This circumstance, it is known, occasioned much surprise, and a
strong sensation to the disadvantage of Mr. Adams.

It happened at a peculiar juncture, immediately after the un-
favorable turn of the election in New-York, and had much the

^t.43.J JOHN ADAMS. ?15

air of an explosion of combustible materials which had been
long prepared, but which had been kept down by prudential cal-
culations respecting the effect of an explosion upon the friends
of those ministers in the State of New-York. Perhaps, when
it was supposed that nothing could be lost in this quarter, and
that something might be gained elsewhere by an atoning sacrifice
of those ministers, especially Mr. Pickering, who had been for
some time particularly odious to the opposition party, it was de-
termined to proceed to extremities. This, as a mere conjecture,
is offered for as much as it may be worth.

One fact, however, is understood to be admitted, namely,
that neither 'of the dismissed ministers had given any new or re-
cent cause for their dismission.

A primary cause of the state of things which led to this
event, is to be traced to the ungovernable temper of Mr. Adams.
It is a fact that he is often liable to paroxysms of anger, which
deprive him of self-command, and produce very outrageous be-
havior to those who approach him. Most, if not all his minis-
ters, and several distinguished members of the two Houses of
Congress, have been humiliated by the effects of these gusts of

passion.

This violence, and the little consideration for them which
was implied in declining to consult them, had occasioned great
dryness between the President and his ministers, except, I be-
lieve, the Secretary of the Navy.

The neglect was, of course, most poignant to Mr. Pickering,
because it had repeatedly operated in matters appertaining to his
ofhce. Nor was it in the disposition of this respectable man,
justly tenacious of his own dignity and independence, to practise
condescentions towards an imperious chief. Hence the breach
constantly grew wider and wider, till a separation took place.

The manner of the dismission was abrupt and uncourteous ;
ill suited to a man, who, in different stations, had merited so much
from his country.

Admitting that when the President and his minister had got-
ten into a situation thus unpleasant, a seperation was unavoid-
able ; still, as there was no surmise of misconduct, the case re-
quired a frank politeness, not an uncouth austerity.

Y16 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 43.

But the remark most interesting in this particular to the
character of the President, is, that it was by his own fault
that he was brought into a situation which might oblige him
to displace a minister, whose moral worth has his own suf-
frage, and whose abilities and services have that of the
public.

The dismission of this minister was preceded by a very cu-
rious circumstance. It was, without doubt, announced as a thing
shortly to happen in an opposition circle, before any friend of
the government had the slightest suspicion of it. This circum-
stance, taken in connection with the period at which it happen-
ed, naturally provokes the conjecture that there may have been
some collateral inducements to the step.

The dismission of the Secretary at War took place about the
same time. It was declared in the sequel of a long conversation
between the President and him, of a nature to excite alter-
nately pain and laughter ; pain, for the weak and excessive in-
discretions of a Chief Magistrate of the United States ; laughter
at the ludicrous topics which constituted charges against this
officer.

A prominent charge was, that the Secretary, in a report to
the House of Representatives, had eulogized General Washington,
and had attempted to eulogize General Hamilton, which was
adduced as one proof of a combination, in which the Secretary
was engaged, to depreciate and injure him, the President.

Wonderful ! passing wonderful ! that an eulogy of the dead
patriot and hero, of the admired and beloved Washington, con-
secrated in the affections and reverence of his country, should,
in any shape, be irksome to the ears of his successor !

Singular, also, that an encomium on the officer, first in rank
in the armies of the United States, appointed and continued by
Mr. Adams, should in his eyes have been a crime in the head of
the War Department, and that it should be necessary, in order to
avert his displeasure, to obliterate a compliment to that officer
from an official report.

Another principal topic of accusation was, that the Secretary
had, with the other ministers, signed the joint letter, which had

JEt. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 71 f

been addressed to the President respecting a suspension of the
mission to France. It was ostentatiously asked, how he or they
should pretend to know any thing of diplomatic affairs; and it
was plainly intimated that it was presumption in them to have
intermeddled in such affairs.

A variety of things equally frivolous and outre passed. By
way of episode, it fell to my lot to be distinguished by a torrent
of gross personal abuse ; and I was accused of having contrib-
uted to the loss of the election in New-York, out of ill will to
Mr. Adams : a notable expedient truly for giving vent to my ill
will. Who is so blind as not to see, that if actuated by such a
motive, I should have preferred by the success of the election,
to have secured the choice of electors for the State of New- York,
who would have been likely to co-operate in the views by which
I was governed?

To those who have not had opportunities of closely inspect-
ing the weaknesses of Mr. Adams's character, the details of this
extraordinary interview Avould appear incredible ; but to those
who have had these opportunities, they would not even furnish
an occasion of surprise. But they would be, to all who knew
their truth, irrefragable proofs of his unfitness for the station of
Chief Magistrate.

Ill treatment of Mr. M 'Henry cannot fail to awaken the
sympathy of every person well acquainted with him. Sensible,
judicious, well-informed, of an integrity never questioned, of a
temper, which, though firm in the support of principles, has too
much moderation and amenity to offend by the manner of doing
it — I dare pronounce that he never gave Mr. Adams cause to
treat him, as he did, with unkindness. If Mr. Adams thought
that his execution of his office indicated a want of the peculiar
qualifications required for it, he might have said so with gentle-
ness, and he would have only exercised a prerogative intrusted
to him by the Constitution, to which no blame could have at-
tached; but it was unjustifiable to aggravate the deprivation of
ofiice by humiliating censures and bitter reproaches.

The last material occurrence in the administration of Mr.
Adams, of which I shall take notice, is the pardon of Fries,

718 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

and other principals in the late insurrection in Pennsyl-
vania.-

It is a fact that a very refractory spirit has long existed in the
western counties of that State. Repeatedly have its own laws
been opposed with violence, and as often, according to my in-
formation, with impunity.

It is also a fact, which every body knows, that the laws of
the Union, in the vital article of revenue, have been twice re-
sisted in the same State by combinations so extensive, and un-
der circumstances so violent, as to have called for the employ-
ment of military force ; once under the former President, and
once under the actual President ; which together cost the United
States nearly a million and a half of dollars.

In the first instance it happened, that by the early submis-
sion of most of the leaders, upon an invitation of the govern-
ment, few offenders of any consequence remained subject to
prosecution. Of these, either from the humanity of the
juries or some deficiency in the evidence, not one was capi-
tally convicted. Two poor wretches only were sentenced
to die, one of them little short of an idiot, the other a miser-
able follower in the hindmost train of rebellion, both being so
insignificant in all respects, that after the lenity shown to the
chiefs, justice would have worn the mien of ferocity, if she
had raised her arm against them. The sentiment that their
punishment ought to be remitted was universal ; and the Pres-
ident, yielding to the special considerations, granted them par-
dons.

In the last instance, some of the most important of the of-
fenders were capitally convicted — one of them by the verdicts of
two successive juries. The general opinion of the friends of
the government demanded an example, as indispensable to its
security.

The opinion was well founded. Two insurrections in the
same State, the one upon the heels of the other, demonstrated a
spirit of insubordination or disaffection which required a strong-
corrective. It is a disagreeable fact, forming a weighty argu-
ment in the question, that a large part of the population of Penn-

Ms. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 719

sylvania is of a composition which peculiarly fits it for the
intrigues of factious men, who may desire to disturb or over-
throw the government. And it is an equally disagreeable fact,
that disaffection to the national government is in no other State
more general, more deeply rooted, or more envenomed.

The late Governor Mifflin himself informed me, that in the
first case, insurrection had been organized down to the very
liberties of Philadelphia, and that had not the government anti-
cipated it, a general explosion would speedily have ensued.

It ought to be added, that the impunity so often experienced,
had made it an article in the creed of those who were actuated by
the insurgent spirit, that neither the General nor the State govern-
ment dared to inflict capital punishment.

To destroy this persuasion, to repress this dangerous spirit, it
was essential that a salutary rigor should have been exerted, and
that those who were under the influence of the one and the other
should be taught that they were the dupes of a fatal illusion.

Of this, Mr. Adams appeared so sensible, that while the trials
were pending, he more than once imprudently threw out, that
the accused must found their hopes of escape either in their
innocence or in the lenity of the juries ; since from him, in case
of conviction, they would have nothing to expect. And a very
short time before he pardoned them, he declared (b) with no
small ostentation, that the mistaken clemency of Washington on
the former occasion, had been the cause of the second insurrec-
tion, and that he would take care there should not be a third,
by giving the laws their full course against the convicted offend-
ers.

Yet he thought proper, as if distrusting the courts and officers
of the United States, to resort through the Attorney-General to
the counsel of the culprits, for a statement of their cases ; (c) in
which was found, besides some objections of form, the novel
doctrine, disavowed by every page of our law books, that treason
does not consist of resistance by force to a public law ; unless it
be an act relative to the militia, or other military force.

(b) (c) Of these two facts, my evidence is inferior to that which supports the
other allegations of this letter ; yet it is so strong that I feel myself warranted to
state them.

720 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [At. 43.

And upon this, or upon some other ground, not easy to be
comprehended, he of a sudden departed from all his former
declarations, and, against the unanimous advice of his ministers,
with the Attorney-General, came to the resolution, which he
executed, of pardoning all those who had received sentence of
death.

No wonder that the public was thunderstruck at such a result
— that the friends of the government regarded it as a virtual
dereliction — it was impossible to commit a greater error. The
particular situation of Pennsylvania, the singular posture of
human affairs, in which there is so strong a tendency to the dis-
organization of government — the turbulent and malignant humors
which exist, and are so industriously nourished throughout the
United States ; every thing loudly demanded that the Executive
should have acted with exemplary vigor, and should have given
a striking demonstration, that condign punishment would be the
lot of the violent opposers of the laws.

The contrary course, which was pursued, is the most inex-
plicable part of Mr. Adams's conduct. It shows him so much at
variance with himself, as well as with sound policy, that we are
driven to seek a solution for it in some system of concession to
his political enemies ; a system the most fatal for himself, and
for the cause of public order, of any that he could possibly devise.
It is by temporizings like these, that men at the head of affairs,
lose the respect both of friends and foes— it is by temporizings
like these, that in times of fermentation and commotion, govern-
ments are prostrated, which might easily have been upheld by
an erect and imposing attitude.

I have now gone through the principal circumstances in Mr.
Adams's conduct, which have served to produce my disapproba-
tion of him as Chief Magistrate. I pledge my veracity and honor,
that I have stated none which are not either derived from my
own knowledge, or from sources of information, in the highest
degree, worthy of credit.

I freely submit it, sir, to your judgment, whether the grounds
of the opinion I have expressed, are not weighty ; and whether
they are not sufficient to exculpate those federalists, who favor

Mr. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. T21

the equal support of Mr. Pinckney, from all blame, and myself
in particular, from the unworthy imputation of being influenced
by private resentment.

At the same time, I will admit, though it should detract from
the force of my representations, that I have causes of personal
dissatisfaction with Mr. Adams. It is not my practice to trouble
others with my individual concerns; nor should I do it at
present, but for the suggestions which have been made. Even
with this incentive, I shall do it as little as possible.

The circumstances of my late military situation, have much
less to do with my personal discontent than some others. In
respect to them, I shall only say, that I owed my appointment to
the station and rank I held, to the express stipulation of General
Washington, when he accepted the command of the army, after-
wards peremptorily insisted upon by him, in opposition to the strong
wishes of the President ; and that, though second in rank, I was
not promoted to the first place, when it became vacant, by the
death of the commander-in-chief. As to the former, I should
have had no cause to complain, if there had not been an apparent
inconsistency in the measures of the President ; if he had not
nominated me first on the list of Major-Generals, and attempted
afterwards to place me third in rank. As to the latter, the chief
command, not being a matter of routine, the not promoting me to
it, cannot be deemed a wrong or injury ; yet certainly I could not
see, in the omission, any proof of good will or confidence — or of
a disposition to console me for the persecutions which I had inces-
santly endured. But I dismiss the subject, leaving to others to
judge of my pretensions to the promotion, and of the weight, if
any, which they ought to have had with the President.

On other topics, my sensations are far less neutral. If, as I
have been assured from respectable authorities, Mr. Adams has
repeatedly indulged himself in virulent and indecent abuse of
me ; if he has denominated me a man destitute of every moral
principle ; if he has stigmatized me as the leader of a British
faction; then, certainly, I have a right to think that I have been
most cruelly and wickedly traduced; then have I a right to
appeal to all those who have been spectators of my public
g 46

722 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 43.

actions ; to all who are acquainted with my private character, in
its various relations, whether such treatment of me, by Mr.
Adams, is of a nature to weaken or to strengthen his claim to
the approbation of wise and good men ; then will I so far yield
to the consciousness of what I am, as to declare, that in the
cardinal points of public and private rectitude, above all, in pure
and disinterested zeal for the interests and service of this country
— I shrink not from a comparison with any arrogant pretender
to superior and exclusive merit.

Having been repeatedly informed, that Mr. Adams had de-
lineated me as the leader of a British faction, and having under-
stood that his partisans, to counteract the influence of my opinion,
were pressing the same charge against me, I wrote him a letter
on the subject, dated the first of August last. No reply having
been given by him to this letter, I, on the first of the present
month, wrote him another ; of both which letters I send you
copies.

Of the purity of my public conduct in this, as in other par-
ticulars, I may defy the severest investigation.

Not only is it impossible- for any man to give color to this
absurd charge, by a particle of proof, or by any reasonable pre-
sumption ; but I am able to show, that my conduct has uniformly
given the lie to it.

I never advised any connection* with Great Britain, other
than a commercial one ; and in this I never advocated the giving
to her any privilege or advantage which was not to be imparted
to other nations. With regard to her pretensions as a belligerent
power in relation to neutrals, my opinions, while in the Adminis-
tration, to the best of my recollection, coincided with those of
Mr. Jefferson. When, in the year 1793, her depredations on
our commerce discovered a hostile spirit, I recommended one
definitive effort to terminate differences by negotiation, to be

* I mean a lasting connection. From what I recollect of the train of my ideas,
it is possible I may at some time have suggested a temporary connection for the
purpose of co-operating against France, in the event of a definitive rupture ; but of
this I am not certain, as I well remember that the expediency of the measure was
always problematical in my mind, and that I have occasionally discouraged it.

jEt. 43.] JOHN ADAMS. 723

followed, if unsuccessful, by a declaration of war. I urged, in
the most earnest manner, the friends of the Administration, in
both Houses of Congress, to prepare by sea and land for the
alternative, to the utmost extent of our resources ; and to an
extent far exceeding what any member of either party was found
willing to go. For this alternative, I became so firmly pledged
to the friends and enemies of the Administration, and especially
to the President of the United States, in writing as well as
verbally, that I could not afterwards have retracted without a
glaring and disgraceful inconsistency. And being thus pledged,
I explicitly gave it as my opinion to Mr. Jay, Envoy to Great
Britain, that " unless an adjustment of the differences with her could
be effected on solid terms) it would be better to do nothing.1,1 When the
treaty arrived, it was not without full deliberation and some
hesitation, that I resolved to support it. The articles relative to
the settlement of differences were upon the whole satisfactory ;
but there were a few of the others which appeared to me of a
different character. The article respecting contraband, though
conformable with the general law of nations, was not in all its
features such as could have been wished. The XXVth article,
which gave asylum in our ports, under certain exceptions, to
privateers with their prizes, was in itself an ineligible one, being
of a nature to excite the discontent of nations against whom it
should operate, and deriving its justification from the example
before set of an equivalent stipulation in our treaty with France.
The Xllth article, was in my view inadmissible. The en-
lightened negotiator, not unconscious that some parts of the
treat}7 were less well arranged than was to be desired, had him-
self hesitated to sign : but he had resigned his scruples to the
conviction that nothing better could be effected, and that aggre-
gately considered, the instrument would be advantageous to the
United States. On my part, the result of mature reflection was,
that as the subjects of controversy which had threatened the
peace of the two nations, and which implicated great interests of
this country, were in the essential points well adjusted, and as
the other articles would expire in twelve years after the ratifica-
tion of the treaty, it would be wise and right to confirm the com-

724 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 43.

pact, with the exception of the Xllth article. Nevertheless,
when an account was received that the British cruisers had
seized provisions going to ports of the French dominions, not
in fact blockaded or besieged, I advised the President to ratify
the treaty conditionally only, that is, with express instructions
not to exchange ratifications, unless the British government
would disavow a construction of the instrument authorizing the
practice, and would discontinue it.

After the rejection of Mr. Pinckney by the government of
France, immediately after the instalment of Mr. Adams as Pre-
sident, and long before the measure was taken, I urged a member
of Congress, then high in the confidence of the President, to pro-
pose to him the immediate appointment of three commissioners,
of whom Mr. Jefferson or Mr. Madison to be one, to make another
attempt to negotiate. And when afterwards commissioners were
appointed, I expressly gave it as my opinion, that indemnification
for spoliations, should not be a sine qua non of accommodation.
In fine, I have been disposed to go greater lengths to avoid rup-
ture with France than with Great Britain ; to make greater
sacrifices for reconciliation with the former than with the latter.

In making this avowal, I owe it to my own character to say,
that the disposition I have confessed, did not proceed from pre-
dilection for France (revolutionary France, after her early begin-
nings, has been always to me an object of horror), nor from the
supposition that more was to be feared from France, as an enemy,
than from Great Britain (I thought that the maritime power of
the latter, could do us most mischief), but from the persuasion that
the sentiments and prejudices of our country, would render war
with France a more unmanageable business, than war with Great
Britain.

Let any fair man pronounce, whether the circumstances which
have been disclosed, bespeak the partisan of Great Britain, or the
man exclusively devoted to the interests of this country. Let
any delicate man decide, whether it must not be shocking to an
ingenuous mind, to have to combat a slander so vile, after having
sacrificed the interests of his family, and devoted the best part of
his life to the service of that country, in counsel and in the field.

m. 43.| JOHN ADAMS. 725

It is time to conclude. — The statement, which has been made,
shows that Mr. Adams has committed some positive and serious
errors of administration ; that in addition to these, he has certain
fixed points of character which tend naturally to the detriment of
any cause of which he is the chief, of any administration of which
he is the head ; that by his ill humors and jealousies he has
already divided and distracted the supporters of the government;
that he has furnished deadly weapons to its enemies by unfounded
accusations, and has weakened the force of its friends by decrying
some of the most influential of them to the utmost of his power ;
and let it be added, as the necessary effect of such conduct, that
he has made great progress in undermining the ground which
was gained for the government by his predecessor, and that there
is real cause to apprehend, it might totter, if not fall, under his
future auspices. A new government, constructed on free princi-
ples, is always weak, and must stand in need of the props of a
firm and good administration ; till time shall have rendered its
authority venerable, and fortified it by habits of obedience.

Yet with this opinion of Mr. Adams, I have finally resolved
not to advise the withholding from him a single vote. The body
of federalists, for want of sufficient knowledge of facts, are not
convinced of the expediency of relinquishing him. It is even
apparent, that a large proportion still retain the attachment which
was once a common sentiment. — Those of them, therefore, who
are dissatisfied, as far as my information goes, are, generally
speaking, willing to forbear opposition, and to acquiesce in the
equal support of Mr. Adams with Mr. Pinckney, whom they
prefer. Have they not a claim to equal deference from those
who continue attached to the former ? Ought not these, in can-
dor, to admit the possibility that the friends who differ from them,
act not only from pure motives, but from cogent reasons? Ought
they not, by a co-operation in General Pinckney, to give a chance
for what will be a safe issue, supposing that they are right in their
preference, and the best issue, should they happen to be mistaken?
Especially, since by doing this they will increase the probability
of excluding a third candidate, of whose unfitness all sincere
federalists are convinced. If they do not pursue this course, they

726 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr.'AZ.

will certainly incur an immense responsibility to their friends and
to the government.

To promote this co-operation, to defend my own character,
to vindicate those friends, who with myself have been unkindly
aspersed, are the inducements for writing this letter. Accord-
ingly, it will be my endeavor to regulate the communication of
it in such a manner as will not be likely to deprive Mr. Adams
of a single vote. Indeed, it is much my wish that its circulation
could for ever be confined within narrow limits. I am sensible of
the inconveniences of giving publicity to a similar development
of the character of the Chief Magistrate of our country ; and I
lament the necessity of taking a step which will involve that re-
sult. Yet to suppress truths, the disclosure of which is so inter-
esting to the public welfare as well as to the vindication of my
friends and myself, did not appear to me justifiable.

The restraints, to which I submit, are a proof of my disposition
to sacrifice to the prepossessions of those, with whom I have
heretofore thought and acted, and from whom in the present
question I am compelled to differ. To refrain from a decided
opposition to Mr. Adams's re-election has been reluctantly sanc-
tioned by my judgment ; which has been not a little perplexed
between the unqualified conviction of his unfitness for the station
contemplated, and a sense of the great importance of cultivating
harmony among the supporters of the government ; on whose
firm union hereafter will probably depend the preservation of
order, tranquillity, liberty, property ; the security of every social
and domestic blessing.

New-York, August 1, 1800.

Sir:

It has been repeatedly mentioned to me, that you have, on
different occasions, asserted the existence of a British faction in
this country ; embracing a number of leading or influential cha-
racters of the federal party (as usually denominated), and that
you have sometimes named me, at others, plainly alluded to me,
as one of this description of persons. And I have likewise been

JEi. 43-] JOHN ADAMS. 727

assured, that of late some of your warm adherents, for electioneer-
ing purposes, have employed a corresponding language.

I must, sir, take it for granted, that you cannot have made
such assertions or insinuations, without being willing to avow
them, and to assign, the reasons to a party who may conceive him-
self injured by them. I therefore trust, that you will not deem
it improper, that I apply directly to yourself to ascertain from
you, in reference to your own declarations, whether the informa-
tion I have received, has been correct or not ; and if correct,
what are the grounds upon which you have founded the sugges-
tion.

With respect, I have the honor to be,

Sir, your obedient servant,

A. H.

To John Adams, Esa. President of the United States.

New-York, October 1, 1800.

Sir:

The time which has elapsed since my letter of the 1st of Au-
gust was delivered to you, precludes the further expectation of an

answer.

From this silence, I will draw no inference ; nor will I pre-
sume to judge of the fitness of silence on such an occasion on the
part of the Chief Magistrate of a republic, towards a citizen, who,
without a stain, has discharged so many important public trusts.
But thus much I will affirm, that by whomsoever a charge of
the kind mentioned in my former letter, may, at any time, have
been made or insinuated against me, it is a base, wicked and cruel
calumny ; destitute even of a plausible pretext, to excuse the
folly, or mask the depravity which must have dictated it.
With due respect, I have the honor to be,

Sir, vour obedient servant,

A. H.

To John Adams, Esq.. President of the United States.

28 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEr. 44.

ADDRESS, TO THE ELECTORS OF THE STATE OF

NEW- YORK.

1801.

Fellow-Citizens :

We lately addressed you on the subject of the ensuing elec-
tion for Governor and Lieutenant-Governor — recommending to
your support Stephen Van Rensselaer and James Watson. Since
that, we have seen the address of our opponents, urging your
preference of George Clinton and Jeremiah Van Rensselaer.

The whole tenor of our address carries with it the evidence
of a disposition to be temperate and liberal ; to avoid giving oc-
casion to mutual recrimination. It would have been agreeable
to us to have seen a like disposition in our adversaries.; but we
think it cannot be denied that their address manifests a different
one. It arraigns the principles of the federalists with extreme
acrimon}', and by the allusion to Great Britain, in the preposter-
ous figure of the mantle, attributes to them a principle of action,
which every signer of the address knows to have no existence,
and which for its falsehood and malice merits indignation and
disdain.

So violent an attack upon our principles justifies and calls for
an exhibition of those of our opponents. To your good sense,
to your love of country, to your regard for the welfare of your-
selves and families, the comment is submitted.

The pernicious spirit which has actuated many of the leaders
of the party denominated anti-federal, from the moment when our
national Constitution was first proposed down to the present pe-
riod, has not ceased to display itself in a variety of disgusting-
forms. In proportion to the prospect of success it has increased
in temerity. Emboldened by a momentary triumph in the
choice of our national Chief Magistrate, it seems now to have
laid aside all reserve, and begins to avow projects of disorgani-
zation, with the sanction of the most respectable names of the

Jjr. 44.] ADDRESS. 729

party, which before were merely the anonymous ravings of in-
cendiary newspapers.

This precipitation in throwing aside the mask will, we trust,
be productive of happy effects. It will serve to show that the
mischievous designs ascribed to the party have not been the effu-
sions of malevolence, the inventions of political rivalship, or the
visionary forebodings of an over-anxious zeal ; but that they
have been just and correct inferences from an accurate estimate
of characters and principles. It will serve to show, that moder-
ate men, who have seen in our political struggles nothing more
than a competition for power and place, have been deceived ;
that in reality the foundations of society, the essential interests
of our nation, the dearest concerns of individuals, are staked
upon the eventful contest, And, by promoting this important
discovery, it may be expected to rally the virtuous and the pru-
dent of every description round a common standard ; to endeavor,
by joint efforts, to oppose mounds to that destructive torrent,
which in its distant murmuring seemed harmless, but in the por-
tentous roaring of its nearer approach, menaces our country with
all the horrors of revolutionary frenzy.

To what end, fellow-citizens, has your attention been carried
across the Atlantic, to the revolution of France, and to that fatal
war of which it has been the source ? To what end are you
told, that this is the most interesting conflict man ever witnessed
that it is a war of principles— a war between equal and une-
qual rights— between republicanism and monarchy— between lib-
erty and tyranny ?

What is there in that terrific picture which you are to admire
or imitate? Is it the subversion of the throne of the Bourbons,
to make way for the throne of the Buonapartes f Is it the un-
distinguishing massacre in prisons and dungeons, of men, wo-
men, and children? Is it the sanguinary justice of revolution-
ary tribunals, or the awful terrors of a guillotine ? Is it the
rapid succession of revolution upon revolution, erecting the tran-
sient power of one set of men upon the tombs of another ? Is
it the assassinations which have been perpetrated, or the new
ones which are projected ? Is it the open profession of impiety

T30 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. &

in the public assemblies, or the ridiculous worship of a Goddess
of Reason, or the still continued substitution of decades to the
Christian Sabbath ? Is it the dstruction of commerce, the ruin of
manufactures, the oppression of agriculture ? Or, is it the pomp
of war, the dazzling glare of splendid victories, the bloodstained
fields of Europe, the smoking cinders of desolated cities, the af-
flicting spectacle of millions precipitated from plenty and com
fort to beggary and misery ? If it be none of these things, what
is it?

Perhaps it is the existing government of France, of which
your admiration is solicited ?

Here, fellow-citizens, let us on our part invite you to a solemn
pause. Mark, we beseech you, carefully mark, in this result,
the fruit of those extravagant and noxious principles which it is
desired to transplant into our happy soil.

Behold a consul for ten years elected, not by the people, but by
a conservatory Senate, self-orated, and self-continued for life; a
magistrate who, to the plenitude of executive authority, adds the
peculiar and vast prerogative of an exclusive right to originate
every law of the republic.

Behold a legistature elected, not by the people, but by the same
conservative Senate, one branch for fourteen, the other for ten
years ; one branch with a right to debate the law proposed by the
consul but not to propose ; another branch with a right neither
to debate nor propose ; but merely to assent or dissent, leaving to
the people nothing more than the phantom of representation, or
the useless privilege of designating one tenth of their whole mass
as candidates indiscriminately for the offices of the state accord-
ing to the option of the conservatory Senate.

Behold this magic lantern of republicanism ; the odious form
of real despotism ; garnished and defended by the bayonets of
more than five hundred thousand men in disciplined array.

Do you desire an illustration of the practical effect of this
despotic sj^stem, read it in the last advices from France. Read
it in the exercise of a power by the chief consul, recognized to
belong to him by the conservatory Senate, to banish indefinitely
the citizens of France without trial, without the formality of a

jEt.44.] ADDRESS. ^31

legislative act. Then say, where can you find a more hideous
despotism ? Or, what ought ye to think of those men, who dare
to recommend to you as the bible of your political creed, the
principles of a revolution, which in its commencement, m its pro-
gress in its termination, (if termination it can have, before it
has overthrown the civilized world,) is only fitted to serve as a
beacon to warn you to shun the gulfs, the quicksands, and the
rocks of those enormous principles ?

Surely ye will applaud neither the wisdom nor the patriotism
of men, who can wish you to exchange the fair fabric of repub-
licanism which you now enjoy, modelled and decorated by the
hand of federalism, for that tremendous form of despotism which
has sprung up amidst the volcanic eruptions of principles at war
with all past and present experience, at war with the nature of

man.

Or, was the allusion to France and her revolution, to the war
of principles of which you have heard, intended to familiarize
your ears to a war of arms, as one of the blessings of the new
order of things ? Facts, which cannot be mistaken, demonstrate
that in the early period of the French revolution, it was the plan
of our opponents to engage us in the war as associates of France.
But at this late hour, when even the pretence of supporting the
cause of liberty has vanished, when acquisition and aggrandize-
ment have manifestly become the only, the exclusive objects of
this war, it was surely to have been expected that we should
have been left to retain the advantage of a pacific policy.

If there are men who hope to gratify their ambition, their
avarice, or their vengeance, by adding this country to the league
of northern powers, in the fantastic purpose of an extension of
neutral rights, the great body of the people will hardly, we ima-
gine, see in this project benefits sufficiently solid and durable to
counterbalance the certain sacrifices of present advantages, and
the certain sufferings of positive evils inseparable from a state

of war.

Let us now attend to some other parts of this extraordinary

address.

You are told, that there are many in the bosom of our coun-

732 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44.

try, who have long aimed at unequal privileges, and who have
too well succeeded ; by arrogating to themselves the right to be
considered as the only friends of the Constitution, the guardians
of order and religion, by the lavish abuse of their opponents,
and by representing opposition to particular plans of administra-
tion, as hostility to the government itself.

What is meant by this aiming at unequal privileges?

If we are to judge of the end by the means stated to have
been used, the charge amounts to this, that the federalists have
sought to retain in their own hands, by the suffrages of the peo-
ple, the exercise of the powers of the government.

Admitting the charge to be true, have not the anti-federal-
ists pursued exactly the same course ?• Have they not labored
incessantly to monopolize the power of our National and State
governments? Whenever they have had it, have they not
strained every nerve to keep it? Why is it a greater crime in
the federalists than in their rivals to aim at an ascendant in the
councils of our country ?

It is true, as alleged, that the federalists insisted upon their
superior claim to be considered as the friends of our Constitution,
and have imputed to their adversaries improper and dangerous
designs ; but it is equally true, that these have asserted a similar
claim, have advanced the pretension of being the only republi-
cans and patriots, have charged their opponents with being in
league with Great Britain to establish monarchy, have imputed
to men of unblemished characters for probity in high public of-
fices, corruption and peculation, and have persisted in the foul
charge after its falsity had been ascertained by solemn public
inquiry ; and in their wanton and distempered rage for calumny
have not scrupled to brand even a Washington as a tyrant, a con-
spirator, & peculator.

It is also true, that the federalists have represented the lead-
ers of the other party as hostile to our national Constitution ;
but it is not true that it was because they have been unfriendly
to particular plans of its administration.

It is because, as a party, and with few exceptions, they were
violent opposers of the adoption of the Constitution itself; predict-

Mt. 44.] ADDRESS. 733

ed from it every possible evil, and painted it in the blackest
colors, as a monster of political deformity.

It is because the amendments subsequently made, meeting
scarcely any of the important objections which were urged, leav-
ing the structure of the government, and the mass and distribu-
tion of its powers where they were, are too insignificant to be
with any sensible man a reason for being reconciled to the sys-
tem if he thought it originally bad.

It is because they have opposed not particular plans of the
administration, but the general course of it, and almost ail the
measures of material consequence, and this too, not under one
man or set of men, but under all the successions of men.

It is because, as there have been no alterations of the Consti-
tution sufficient to change the opinion of its merits, and as the
practice under it has met with the severest reprobation of the
party, there is no circumstance from which to infer that they can
really have been reconciled to it.

It is because the newspapers under their direction have from
time to time continued to decry the Constitution itself.

It is because they have openly avowed their attachment to
the excessive principles of the French revolution, and to leading
features in the crude forms of government which have appeared
only to disappear; utterly inconsistent with the sober maxims
upon which our federal edifice was reared, and with essential
parts; in its structure. As specimens of this, it is sufficient to ob-
serve that they have approved the unity of the legislative power
in one branch, and have been loud in their.praises of an executive
directory — that five-headed monster of faction and anarchy.

It is because they have repeatedly shown, and in their pre-
sent address again show, that they contemplate innovations in
our public affairs, which, without doubt, would disgrace and
prostrate the government.

On these various and strong grounds have the federalists im-
puted to their opponents disaffection to the national Constitu-
tion. As yet they have no reason to retract the charge. To
future proofs of repentance and reconciliation must an exculpation
be referred. The anti-federalists have acquired the administra-

1M HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

tion of the national government. Let them show by a wise and
virtuous management that they are its friends ; and they shall
then have all the credit of so happy a reformation ; but till then
their assertions cannot be received as proofs.

And if the views which the signers of the address now boldly
avow should unfortunately be those which should regulate the
future administration of the government, the tokens of their
amity would be as pernicious as could possibly be the tokens of
their most deadly hatred.

They enumerate, as the crimes of the federalists, the funding
system, the national debt, the taxes which constitute the public
revenue, the British treaty, the federal city, the mint, a mauso-
leum, the sedition law, and a standing army ; and they tell us in
plain terms that these are "abuses no longer to be suffered."

Let it be observed in the first place, that these crying sins of
our government are not to be placed exclusively to the account
of the federalists ; that for some of them the other party are
chiefly responsible, and that in others they have participated.

As to the federal city, it is not to be denied that this was
a favorite of the illustrious Washington. But it is no less cer-
tain, that it was warmly patronized by Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Madi-
son, and the great majority of the members, who at the time
composed the opposition in Congress, and who are now in-
fluential in the anti-federal party. It is also certain that the
measure has never been a favorite of a majority of the federal
party.

As to the Hint, it was not at all a measure of party. With
slight diversities of opinion about some of the details, it was
approved by both parties.

As to the Mausoleum, it has not taken place at all. The bill
for erecting it, was lost in the Senate, where the federalists have
a decided majority ; and, instead of it, an appropriation of fifty
thousand dollars was made for erecting an equestrian statue,
agreeably to a resolution of Congress, passed under the old confedera-
tion. Is there an American, who would refuse this memorial of
gratitude to the man, who is the boast of his country, the honoi
of his age ?

JEt. 44. j ADDRESS. 735

As to the Funding System, it was thus far a measure of both
parties, that both agreed there should be a Funding System. In
the formation of it the chief points of difference were, 1st, a
discrimination between original holders and transferees of the
public debt; 2d, a provision for the general debt of the Union,
leaving to each State to make separate provision for its particular
debt.

Happily for our country, by the rejection of the first, which
would have been an express violation of contracts, the faith of
the government was preserved, its credit maintained and estab-
lished.

Happily for our country, by not pursuing the last, unity, sim-
plicity, and energy were secured to our fiscal system. The
entanglements of fourteen conflicting systems of finance were
avoided. The same mass of debt was included in one general
provision, instead of being referred to fourteen separate provi-
sions— more comprehensive justice was done, the States which
had made extraordinary exertions for the support of the common
cause, were relieved from the unequal pressure of burthens which
must have crushed them, and the people were saved from the
immense difference of expense between a collection of the neces-
sary revenues by one set of officers or by fourteen different sets.

The truth, then, fellow-citizens, is this : — Both parties agreed
that there should be a funding system ; and the particular plan
which prevailed was most agreeable to the contract of the gov-
ernment, most conducive to general and equal justice among the
States and individuals, to order and efficiency in the finances —
to economy in the collection.

Ought not these ideas to have governed? What is meant by
holding up the funding system as an abuse no longer to be tole-
rated ?

What is this funding system? It is nothing more nor less
than the pledging of adequate funds or revenues for paying the interest
and for the gradual redemption of the principal of that very debt
which was the sacred price of independence. The country
being unable to pay off the principal, what better could have
been done?

736 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 44.

It is recollected, that long before our revolution, most of the
States had their funding systems. They emitted their paper
money, which is only another phrase for certificates of debt ; and
they pledged funds for its redemption, which is but another
phrase for funding it. What, then, is there so terrible in the
idea of a funding system? Those who may have been accus-
tomed under some of the State governments to gamble in the
floating paper, and when they had monopolized a good quantity
of it among themselves at low prices, to make partial legislative
provisions for the payment^of the particular kinds, would very
naturally be displeased with a fixed and permanent system,
which would give to the evidences of debt a stable value, and
lop off the opportunities for gambling speculations; but men
who are sensible of the pernicious tendency of such a state of
things, will rejoice in a plan which was designed to produce, and
has •produced a contrary result.

What have been the effects of this system? An extension of
commerce and manufactures, the rapid growth of our cities and
towns, the consequent prosperity of agriculture, and the advance-
ment of the farming interest. All this was effected by giving
life and activity to a capital in the public obligations, which was
before dead, and by converting it into a powerful instrument of
mercantile and other industrious enterprise.

We make these assertions boldly, because the fact is exempli-
fied by experience, and is obvious to all discerning men. Our
opponents in their hearts know it to be so.

As to the public debt ; the great mass of it was not created
by the federalists peculiarly. It was contracted by all who were
engaged in our councils during our revolutionary war. The
federalists have only had a principal agency in providing for it.
No man can impute that to them as a crime who is not ready to
avow the fraudulent and base doctrine, that it is wiser and better
to cheat, than to pay the creditors of a nation.

It is a fact certain and notorious, that under the administra-
tion of the first Secretary of the Treasury, ample provision was
made, not only for paying the interest of this debt, but for ex-
tinguishing the principal in a moderate term of years.

Mt. 44.] ADDRESS. 737

But it is alleged that this debt has been increased, and is in-
creasing.

On this point we know that malcontent individuals make the
assertion and exhibit statements intended to prove it. But this
we also know, that a Committee of the House of Representatives,
particularly charged with the inquiry, have stated and reported
the contrary ; and we think that more credit is due to their
representation than to that of individuals, especially as nothing
is easier than in a matter of this sort to make plausible state-
ments, which, though utterly false, cannot be detected except by
those who possess all the materials of a complex calculation,
who are qualified, and who will take the pains to make it.

We know likewise that extraordinary events have compelled
our government to extraordinary expenditures — an Indian war,
for some time disastrous, but terminated on principles likely to
give durable tranquillity to our frontier; two insurrections
fomented by the opposition to the government; the hostilities of
a foreign power, encouraged by the undissembled sympathies of
the same opposition, which obliged the government to arm for
defence and security. These things have retarded the success of
the efficacious measures which have been adopted for the dis-
charge of our debt; measures which, with a peaceable and
orderly course of things, accelerated by the rapid growth of our
country, are sufficient in a few years, without any new expedient,
to exonerate it from the whole of its present debt.

These, fellow-citizens, are serious truths, well known to most
of our opponents, but what they shamefully endeavor to disfigure
and disguise.

As to Taxes, they are evidently inseparable from government.
It is impossible without them to pay the debts of the nation, to
protect it from foreign danger, or to secure individuals from
lawless violence and rapine. It is always easy to assert that they
are heavier than they ought to be, always difficult to refute the
assertion, which cannot ever be attempted without a critical
review of the whole course of public measures. This gives an
immense advantage to those who make a trade of complaint and
censure.

G 47

738 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 44.

But, fellow-citizens, it is in our power to state to you in rela-
tion to this subject and upon good information, one material
fact.

There is, perhaps, no item in the catalogue of our taxes which
has been more unpopular than that which is called the Direct
Tax.

This tax may emphatically be placed to the account of the
opposite party ; it was always insisted upon by them as prefera-
ble to taxes of the indirect kind. And it is a truth capable of
full proof, that Mr. Madison, second in the confidence of the
anti-federal party, the confidential friend of Mr. Jefferson, and
now Secretary of State by his nomination, was the proposer of
this tax. This was done in a Committee of the last House of
Eepresentatives, of which he was a member, was approved by
that Committee, and referred to the late Secretary of the Treasury,
Mr. Wolcott, with instructions to prepare a plan as to the mode.
Let it be added, that it was a principle of the federal party, never
to resort to this species of tax but in time of war or hostility
with a foreign power; that it was in such a time when they did
resort to it, and that the occasion ceasing by the prospect of an
accommodation, it has been resolved by them not to renew the
tax.

As to the British treaty, it is sufficient to remind you of the
extravagant predictions of evil persons of its ratification, and to
ask you in what have they been realized ? You have seen our
peace preserved, you have seen our western posts surrendered,
our commerce proceed with success in its wonted channels, and
our agriculture flourish to the extent of every reasonable wish ;
and you have been witnesses to none of the mischiefs which
were foretold. You will, then, conclude with us that the
clamors against this treaty are the mere ebullitions of ignorance,
of prejudice, and of faction.

As to the Sedition Laiv, we refer you to the debates in Con-
gress for the motives and nature of it. More would prolong too
much this reply, already longer than we could wish.

We will barely say that the most essential object of this Act
is to declare the Courts of the United States competent to the

JEt. 44.] ADDRESS. 739

cognizance of those slanders against the principal officers and
departments of the federal government, which at common law are
punishable as libels ; with the liberal and important mitigation
of allowing the truth of an accusation to be given in evidence in
exoneration of the accuser. What do you see in this to merit
the execrations which have been bestowed on the measure ?

As to a standing army, there is none, except four small regi-
ments of infantry, insufficient for the service of guards in the
numerous posts of our immense frontiers stretching from Niagara
to the borders of Florida, and two regiments of artillery, which
occupy in the same capacity the numerous fortifications along our
widely extended sea-coast. What is there in this to affright or
disgust? If these corps are to be abolished, substitutes must be
found in the militia. If the experiment shall be made, it is easy
to foretell that it will prove not a measure of economy, but a
heavy bill of additional cost, and like all other visionary schemes
will be productive only of repentance and a return to a plan
injudiciously renounced.

This exposition of the measures which have been represented
to you as abuses no longer to be suffered (mark the strength of the
phrase) will, we trust, serve to satisfy you of the violence and
absurdity of those crude notions which govern our opposers, if
we believe them to be sincere. Happily for our country, how-
ever, there has just beamed a ray of hope that these violent and
absurd notions will not form the rule of conduct of the person
whom the party have recently elevated to the head of our na-
tional affairs.

In the speech of the new President upon assuming the exer-
cise of his office, we find among the articles of his creed, — " the
honest payment of our debt, and sacred preservation of the public

FAITH."

The funding system, the national debt, the British treaty, are
not therefore in his conception abuses, which, if no longer to be
tolerated, would be of course to be abolished.

But we think ourselves warranted to derive from the same
source, a condemnation still more extensive of the opinions of
our adversaries. The speech characterizes our present govern-

740 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

raent "as a republican in the full tide of successful experiment."
Success in the experiment of a government, is success in the
practice of it, and this is but another phrase for an administration,
in the main, wise and good. That administration has been
hitherto in the hands of the federalists.

Here then, fellow-citizens, is an open and solemn protest
against the principles and opinions of our opponents, from a
quarter which as yet they dare not arraign.

In referring to this speech, we think it proper to make a
public declaration of our approbation of its contents. We view
it as virtually a candid retraction of past misapprehensions, and
a pledge to the community, that the new President will not lend
himself to dangerous innovations, but in essential points will
tread in the steps of his predecessors.

In doing this, he prudently anticipates the loss of a great
portion of that favor which has elevated him to his present sta-
tion. Doubtless, it is a just foresight. Adhering to the pro-
fessions he has made, it will not be long before the body of the
anti-federalists will raise their croaking and ill-omened voices
against him. But in the talents, the patriotism, and the firmness
of the federalists, he will find more than an equivalent for all that
he shall lose.

All those of whatever party who may desire to support the
moderate views exhibited in the Presidential Speech, will unite
against the violent projects of the men who have addressed you
in favor of Mr. Clinton, and against a candidate, who, in all past
experience, has evinced that he is likely to be a fit instrument of
these projects.

Fellow-citizens, we beseech you to consult your experience and
not listen to tales of evil, which exist only in the language, not
even in the imaginations of those who deal them out. This ex-
perience will tell you, that our opposers have been uniformly
mistaken in their views of our Constitution, of its administration,
in all the judgments which they have pronounced of our public
affairs ; and consequently, that they are unfaithful or incapable
advisers. It will teach you that you have eminently prospered
under the system of public measures pursued and supported by

jEt. 44.] ADDRESS. 741

the federalists. In vain are you told that you owe your pros-
perity to your own industry, and to the blessings of Providence.
To the latter, doubtless, you are primarily indebted. You owe
to it, among other benefits, the Constitution you enjoy, and the
wise administration of it by virtuous men as its instruments.
You are likewise indebted to your own industry. But has not
your industry found aliment and incitement in the salutary
operation of your government — in the preservation of order at
home — in the cultivation of peace abroad — in the invigoration of
confidence in pecuniary dealings — in the increased energies of
credit and commerce — in the extension of enterprise, ever incident
to a good government, well administered? Remember what your
situation was immediately before the establishment of the present
Constitution. Were you then deficient in industry more than
now ? If not, why were you not equally prosperous ? Plainly,
because your industry had not at that time the vivifying in-
fluences of an efficient and well conducted government.

There is one more particular in the address which we cannot
pass over in silence, though, to avoid being tedious, we must do
little more than mention it. It is a comparison between the ad-
ministration of the former and present governors of this State, on
the point of economy, accompanied with the observation, that the
former had shown an anxious solicitude to exempt you from
taxation.

The answer to this is, that under the administration of Mr.
Clinton, the State possessed large resources, which were the sub-
stitute for taxation — the duties of impost, the proceeds of con-
fiscated property, and immense tracts of new land, which, if they
had been providently disposed of, would have long deferred the
necessity of taxation. That this was not done, Mr. Clinton, as
one of the commissioners of the land office, is in a principal
degree responsible.

Under the administration of Mr. Jay, the natural increase of
the State has unavoidably augmented the expense of the govern-
ment, and the appropriations of large sums, in most of which all
parties have concurred, to a variety of objects of public utility
and necessity, have so far diminished the funds of the State, as in
the opinion of all parties to have required a resort to taxes.

742^ HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt 44.

The principal of these objects have been : 1. The erection of
fortifications, and the purchase of cannon, arms, and other war-
like implements for the purpose of defence. 2. The building and
maintenance of the State prisons, in the laudable experiment of
an amelioration of our penal code. 3. The purchase from Indians
of lands which, though resold, have not yet been productive of
revenue. 4. The payment of dower to the widows of persons
whose estates have been confiscated. 5. Large appropriations
for the benefit of common schools, roads, and bridges. 6. The
erection of an arsenal and public offices in the city of Albany.

Hence it is evident that the difference which has been re-
marked to you in respect to taxation, has proceeded from a dif-
ference of circumstances, not from the superior providence or
economy of the former, or from the improvidence or profusion
of the existing administration. Our opponents may be chal-
lenged to bring home to Mr. Jay the proofs of prodigality, and
they may be told that the purity and integrity of his conduct in
relation to the public property, have never for a moment been
drawn into question.

We forbear to canvass minutely the personalities in which
our adversaries have indulged. 'Tis enough for us, that they
acknowledge our candidate to possess the good qualities which
we have ascribed to him. If he has inherited a large estate, 'tis
certainly no crime.

'Tis to his honor that his benevolence is as large as his estate.
Let his numerous tenants be his witnesses : — attached as they
are to him, not by the ties of dependence (for the greater part of
them hold their lands in fee simple and upon easy rents), but by
the ties of affection, by those gentle and precious cords which
link gratitude to kindness. Let the many indigent and distressed
who have been gladdened by the benign influence of his bounty,
be his witnesses. And let every reflecting man well consider,
whether the people are likely to suffer because the ample fortune
of a virtuous and generous Chief Magistrate places him beyond
the temptation of a job, for the accumulation of wealth.

We shall not inquire how ample may be the domains, how
productive the revenues, how numerous the dependents of Mr.

Mt. 44.] ADDRESS. *743

Clinton, nor how his ample domains may have been acquired.
'Tis enough for us to say, that if Mr Van Rensselaer is rich, Mr.
Clinton is not poor, and that it is at least as innocent in the
former to have been born to opulence, as in the latter to have
attained to it by means of the advantages of the first office of the
State, long, very long enjoyed, for three years at least too long,
because, by an unlawful tenure contrary to a known majority of
suffrages.

"We shall not examine how likely it is that a man considerably
past the meridian of life, and debilitated by infirmities of body,
will be a more useful and efficient governor, and more inde-
pendent of the aid of friends and relations, than a man of ac-
knowledged good sense, of mature years, in the full vigor of life,
and in the full energy of his faculties.

We shall not discuss how far it is probable that the radical
antipathy of Mr. Clinton to the vital parts of our National Con-
stitution, has given way to the little formal amendments which
have since been adopted. We are glad to be assured that it has.
It gives us pleasure to see proselytes to the truth ; nor shall we
be over curious to inquire how men get right if we can but dis-
cover that they are right. If happily the possession of the power
of our once detested government, shall be a talisman to work the
conversion of all its enemies, we shall be ready to rejoice that
good has come out of evil.

But we dare not too far indulge this pleasing hope. We
know that the adverse party has its Dantons, its Robespierres, as
well as its Brissots, and its Rolands ; and we look forward to the
time when the sects of the former will endeavor to confound the
latter and their adherents, together with the federalists, in pro-
miscuous ruin.

In regard to these sects, which compose the pith and essence
of the anti-federal party, we believe it to be true that the contest
between us, is indeed a war of principles, — a war between
tyranny and liberty, but not between monarchy and republican-
ism. It is a contest between the tyranny of Jacobinism, which
confounds and levels every thing, and the mild reign of rational
liberty, which rests on the basis of an efficient and well balanced

744 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 44.

government, and through the medium of stable laws, shelters and
protects the life, the reputation, the civil and religious rights of
every member of the community.

'Tis against these sects that all good men should form an in-
dissoluble league. To resist and frustrate their machinations is
alike essential to every prudent and faithful administration of
our government, whoever may be the depositories of the power.

EXAMINATION OF JEFFERSON'S MESSAGE TO CON-
GRESS OF DECEMBER 7, 1801.

NO I.

December 17, 1801.

Instead of delivering a speech to the Houses of Congress, at
the opening of the present session, the President has thought fit
to transmit a Message. Whether this has proceeded from pride
or from humility, from a temperate love of reform, or from a
wild spirit of innovation, is submitted to the conjectures of the
curious. A single observation shall be indulged — since all
agree, that he is unlike his predecessors in essential points,
it is a mark of consistency to differ from them in matters of
form.

Whoever considers the temper of the day, must be satisfied
that this Message is likely to add much to the popularity of
our chief magistrate. It conforms, as far as would be toler-
ated at this early stage of our progress in political perfection,
to the bewitching tenets of that illuminated doctrine, which
promises man, ere long, an emancipation from the burdens and
restraints of government ; giving a foretaste of that pure feli-
city which the apostles of this doctrine have predicted. After
having, with infinite pains and assiduity, formed the public taste
for this species of fare, it is certainly right, in those whom the

Mi. 44.] THE EXAMINATION. 745

people have chosen for their caterers, to be attentive to the grat-
ification of that taste. And should the viands, which they may
offer, prove baneful poisons instead of wholesome aliments, the
justification is both plain and easy — Good patriots must at all
events please the peoph. But those whose patriotism is of the old
school, who differ so widely from the disciples of the new
creed, that they would rather risk incurring the displeasure of
the people by speaking unpalatable truths, than betray their
interest by fostering their prejudices, will never be deterred by
an impure tide of popular opinion from honestly pointing out
the mistakes or the faults of weak or wicked men, who may
€have been selected as guardians of the public weal.

The Message of the President, by whatever motives it may
have been dictated, is a performance which ought to alarm all
who are anxious for the safety of our government, for the re-
spectability and welfare of our nation. It makes, or aims at
making, a most prodigal sacrifice of constitutional energy, of
sound principle, and of public interest, to the popularity of one
man.

The first thing in it, which excites our surprise, is the very
extraordinary position, that though Tripoli had declared ivar in
form against the United States, and had enforced it by actual
hostility, yet that there was not power, for want of the sanction
of Congress, to capture and detain her cruisers with their crews.

When the newspapers informed us that one of these cruisers,
after being subdued in a bloody conflict, had been liberated and
permitted quietly to return home, the imagination was perplex-
ed to divine the reason. The conjecture naturally was, that pur-
suing a policy too refined perhaps for barbarians, it was intend-
ed, by that measure, to give the enemy a strong impression of
our magnanimity and humanity. No one dreamt of a scruple
as to the right to seize and detain the armed vessel of an open
and avowed foe, vanquished in battle. The enigma is now solv-
ed, and we are presented with one of the most singular para-
doxes ever advanced by a man claiming the character of a
statesman. When analyzed, it amounts to nothing less than this,
that between two nations there may exist a state of complete war
on the one side — of peace on the other.
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 44.

War, of itself, gives to the parties a mutual right to kill in
battle, and to capture the persons and property of each other.
This is a rule of natural law ; a necessary and inevitable conse-
quence of the state of war. This state between two nations is
completely produced by the act of one— it requires no concur-
rent act of the other. It is impossible to conceive the idea, that
one nation can be in fall war with another, and this other not in
the same state with respect to its adversary. The moment that
two nations are, in an absolute sense, at war, the public force of
each may exercise every act of hostility, which the general laws
of war authorize, against the persons and property of the other.
As it respects this conclusion, the distinction between offensive
and defensive war makes no difference. That distinction is
only material to discriminate the aggressing nation from that
which defends itself against attack.— The war is offensive on the
part of the state which makes it ; on the opposite side it is de-
fensive : but the rights of both, as to the measure of hostility,
are equal.

It will be readily allowed, that the constitution of a particu-
lar country may limit the organ, charged with the direction of
the public force, in the use or application of that force, even in
time of actual war : but nothing short of the strongest negative
words, of the most express prohibitions, can be admitted to re-
strain that organ from so employing it, as to derive the fruits
of actual victory, by making prisoners of the persons and de-
taining the property of a vanquished enemy. Our Constitution,
happily, is not chargeable with so great an absurdity. The
framers of it would have blushed at a provision, so repugnant
to good sense, so inconsistent with national safety and inconve-
nience. That instrument has only provided affirmatively, that,
" The Congress shall have power to declare War ;" the plain
meaning of which is, that it is the peculiar and exclusive prov-
ince of Congress, when the nation is at peace to change that state
into a state of war ; whether from calculations of policy, or
from provocations, or injuries received: in other words, it be-
longs to Congress only, to go to War. But when a foreign nation
declares, or openly and avowedly makes war upon the United

jEt. 44.]

THE EXAMINATION. 747

States, they are then by the very fact already at war, and any
declaration on the part of Congress is nugatory ; it is at least
unnecessary. This inference is clear in principle, and has the
sanction of established practice. It is clear in principle, be-
cause it is self-evident, that a declaration by one nation against
another, produces at once a complete state of war between both ;
and that no declaration on the other side can at all vary their
relative situation ; and in practice, it is well known, that noth-
ing is more common than when war is declared by one party, to
prosecute mutual hostilities without a declaration by the other.

The doctrine of the Message includes the strange absurdity,
that without a declaration of war by Congress, our public force may
destroy the life, but may not restrain the liberty, or seize the prop-
erty of an enemy. This was exemplified in the very instance of
the Tripolitan corsair. A number of her crew were slaughtered
in the combat, and after she was subdued, she was set free with
the remainder. But it may perhaps be said, that she was the
assailant, and that resistance was an act of mere defence and self-
preservation. Let us then pursue the matter a step further. Our
ships had blockaded the Tripolitan Admiral in the Bay of Gib-
raltar ; suppose he had attempted to make his way out, without
first firing upon them ; if permitted to do it, the blockade was a
farce ; if hindered by force, this would have amounted to more
than a mere act of defence : and if a combat had ensued, we
should then have seen a perfect illustration of the unintelligible
right, to take the life but not to abridge the liberty, or capture
the property of an enemy. Let us suppose an invasion of our
territory, previous to a declaration of war by Congress. The
principle avowed in the Message, would authorize our troops to
kill those of the invader, if they should come within the reach of
their bayonets, perhaps to drive them into the sea, and drown
them ; but not to disable them from doing harm, by the milder
process of making them prisoners, and sending them into confine-
ment. Perhaps it may be replied, that the same end would be
answered by disarming, and leaving them to starve. The merit
of such an argument would be complete by adding, that should
they not be famished, before the arrival of their ships with a

748 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Jffir. 44.

fresh supply of arms, we might then, if able, disarm them a
second time, and send them on board their fleet, to return safely
home.

The inconvenience of the doctrine in practice, is not less pal-
pable than its folly in theory. In every case it presents a most
unequal warfare. In the instance which has occurred, the van-
quished barbarian got off with the loss of his guns. ILid he been
victorious, those Americans, whose lives might have been spared,
would have been doomed to wear out a miserable existence in
slavery and chains. Substantial benefits would have rewarded
his success ; while on our side, life, liberty, and property, were
put in jeopardy for an empty triumph. This, however, presents
a partial inconvenience — cases may arise in which evils of a more
serious and comprehensive nature would be the fruits of this
visionary and fantastical principle. — Suppose that, in the recess
of Congress, a foreign maritime power should unexpectedly declare
war against the United States, and send a fleet and army to seize
Ehode Island, in order from thence to annoy our trade and our
sea-port towns. Till the Congress should assemble and declare
war, which would require time, our ships might, according to the
hypothesis of the message, be sent by the President to fight those
of the enemy as often as they should be attacked, but not to
capture and detain them ; if beaten, both vessels and crews would
be lost to the United States ; if successful, they could only disarm
those they had overcome, and must suffer them to return to the
place of common rendezvous, there to equip anew, for the pur-
pose of resuming their depredations on our towns and our trade.

Who could restrain the laugh of derision at positions so pre-
posterous, were it not for the reflection that in the first magistrate
of our country, they cast a blemish on our national character ?
What will the world think of the fold when such is the shep-
herd ?

Lucius Crassus.

jEt. 44.] THE EXAMINATION. 749

NO. II.

December 21, 1801.
The next most prominent feature in the message, is the pro-
posal to abandon at once, all the internal revenue of the country.
The motives avowed for this astonishing scheme are, that " there
is reasonable ground of confidence that this part of the revenue may
now be safely dispensed with — that the remaining sources will
be sufficient to provide for the support of government, to pay the
interest of the public debt, and to discharge the principal in shorter
periods than the laivs or the general expectation had contemplated —
and that though wars and untoward events might change this
prospect of things, and call for expenses which, the impost could
not meet — yet that sound principles would not justify our taxing
the industry of our fellow-citizens to accumulate treasure for wars
to happen we know not when, and which might not perhaps
happen but from the temptations offered by that treasure."

If we allow these to be more than ostensible motives, we shall
be driven to ascribe this conduct to a deficiency of intellect, and
to an ignorance of our financial arrangements, greater than could
have been suspected ; if but ostensible, it is then impossible to
trace the suggestion to any other source than the culpable desire
of gaining or securing popularity at an immediate expense of
public utility, equivalent, on a pecuniary scale, to a million* of
dollars annually ; and at the greater expense of a very serious
invasion of our system of public credit.

That these at least are the certain consequences of the meas-
ure, shall be demonstrated by arguments, which are believed to
be unanswerable.

To do this the more effectually, it is necessary to premise,
that some of the revenues now proposed to be relinquished, are,
with every solemnity of law, pledged for paying the interest and

* This is taken as a round number. The present hett product, including the
duties on stamps, seems to be between eight and nine hundred thousand. Very
speedily, by the natural progress of the country, they would amount to a million,
and soon after exceed it. A million therefore is a moderate ratio.

?'50 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

redeeming the principal of our public debt, foreign and domestic.
As to the interest, and such parts of the principal as by the origi-
nal constitution of the debt are payable by annual instalments
the appropriation is absolute. As to the residue, it is qualified.
On the 3d of March, 1795, was passed an act of Cdhgress which
forms a main pillar in the fabric of our public debt — which
maturing and perfecting the establishment of a sinking fund,
endeavors, with peculiar solicitude, to render it adequate, effectual
and inviolable : by the 8th section of this act it is provided
" That all surpluses of the revenue, which shall remain at the end
of any year, and which at the next session of Congress shall not
be otherwise appropriated or reserved by law, shall ipso facto be-
come a part of the " Sinking Fund." This fund, by other provi-
sions of the same act, is vested in commissioners in trust, to be
applied to the redemption of the debt, by reimbursement or by
purchase, until the whole shall be extinguished: and the faith of
the United States is expressly engaged, that the moneys which
are to constitute the fund, shall inviolably remain so appropriated
and vested, until the redemption of the debt shall be completely
effected.

The simple statement of these provisions goes far to confirm
the character which we have given to the proposition. But a
distinct examination of the reasons by which it is supported, will
when taken in connection with those provisions, place beyond
doubt its absurd and pernicious tendency.

The first inducement offered for relinquishing the internal
revenue, is a reasonable ground of confidence that it may safely be
dispensed with.

When it is considered that we are in the very crisis of an
important change of situation ; passing from a state in which
neutrality had procured to our commerce, and to the revenues
depending on it, a great artificial increase— with good reason
to look for a diminution, and without satisfactory data to enable
us to fix the extent of this diminution : can any thing be more
rash, more empirical, than voluntarily to abandon a valuable and
growing branch of income of which we are already in possession?
Can it be said, that merely " a reasonable ground of confidence,"

jEt. 44. J THE EXAMINATION. 751

is a sufficient warrant for so important a surrender ? Surely we
ought to have been told that there was at least a moral certainty
of the fact. But even this would not have been deemed enough
by a prudent statesman. Nothing less than experimental certainty
ought to have been relied upon. — There was no pressure of cir-
cumstances making it proper to precipitate the measure. — It would
have been ridiculous to pretend that the burden is so heavy, as
to demand immediate relief; and without this incentive to re-
linquishment, experience ought undoubtedly to have been taken
as the only fit and sure guide.

Not only is it problematical what the present duties on imports
will for succeeding years produce ; but it is in a degree question-
able, whether it may not be found necessary to reduce the rates.
That they are now high, when compared with the commercial
capital of our country, is not to be denied, and whether they may
not be found too high for a beneficial course of our trade, is yet
to be decided by experiment. The latter augmentations of the
rates of duty were made at times and under circumstances in the
situations of this and of other countries, which forbid us to regard
past experience as conclusive on the point.

Should it be said in answer, that the revenues can hereafter
be renewed, if on trial it shall be found that they have been pre-
maturely abandoned, the decisive reply is, that this is to invert
the natural order of just reasoning. Were it now the question,
whether such revenues should be created, in anticipation of a
possible deficiency, the correct answer would be, let experiment
first ascertain the necessity : as they already exist, on a question
to abolish them, the answer equally ought to be, let experience
first show them to be unnecessary.

But how can they be unnecessary ? Let us grant that the
remaining sources will be equal to the purposes enumerated in
the message, does it follow that it will not still be wise to retain
the internal revenue ? Is it not desirable that government should
have it in its power to discharge the debt faster than may have
been contemplated? Is not this a felicity in our situation which
ought to be improved ? A precious item in the public fortune
which ought not rashly to be squandered ? But it is not even

752 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [,Et. 44.

true that the laws have exclusively contemplated a definite period
for the ultimate redemption of the entire debt. They have only
made a determinate provision for its extinguishment, at all events,
within a given term of years : but, anxious to shorten the period,
they, in the clause which has been quoted respecting the surpluses
of revenue, have made an auxiliary provision for the purpose of
abridging that term. The message, while it goes to impair the
efficacy of the principal provision, proposes formally to renounce
the auxiliary, and thus to disappoint the provident care of the
laws to accelerate the discharge of the debt.

How is this reconcilable with the wanton and unjust clamors
heretofore vented against those who projected and established
our present system of public credit ; charging them with a design
to perpetuate the debt, under the pretext that a public debt was a
public blessing ? It is not to be forgotten, that in these clamors
Mr. Jefferson liberally participated ! Now, it seems, the tone is
entirely changed. The past administrations, who had so long
been calumniated by the imputation of that pernicious design,
are of a sudden discovered to have done too much for the speedy
discharge of the debt, and its duration is to be prolonged, by
throwing away a part of the fund destined for its prompt redemp-
tion. Wonderful union of consistency and wisdom !

Before we yield our approbation to the proposal, we ought to
have a guarantee for the continuance of our peace, long enough
to give effect to the leisurely operation of that residue of the fund
which it is intended to retain : else war, which never fails to
bring with it an accumulation of debt, may intervene, and we
may then rapidly hasten to that period when the exigencies of
government may render it necessary to appropriate too large a
portion of the earnings of labor. To guard against so unfortunate
a result, towards which there is always too great a tendency in
the affairs of nations, our past administrations have evinced a
deep foresight, and exercised a truly patriotic care. Unhappy
will it be, if any succeeding projector shall be permitted to frus-
trate their salutary plan.

It has been seen, that the message anticipates and attempts to
answer objections to the dereliction of revenue : it is said, that

JEt.U.] the examination. 753

" sound principles will not permit us to tax the industry of our
citizens to accumulate treasure for wars to happen we know not
when, and which might not perhaps happen but for the tempta-
tions offered by that treasure." Unless, however, the accumula-
tion of treasure be the necessary consequence of retaining the
revenue, this argument is evidently futile. But the President
had only to open our statute book to learn, that this consequence
is chimerical. All future surpluses of revenue, being already
eventually appropriated to the discharge of the public debt, it
follows that till the whole debt shall have been extinguished,
there could be no accumulation of treasure — no spoil from that
source to tempt the rapacity of a greedy invader. Here we fix
the charge of ignorance of our financial arrangements : to which
there can be no alternative but a deliberate design to delude the
people. Between the two, let the worshippers of the idol make
their option.

Lucius Crassus.

no. III.

December 24th, 1801.

Had our laws been less provident than they have been, yet
must it give us a very humble idea of the talents of our President
as a statesman, to find him embarrassed between an absolute
abandonment of revenue, and an inconvenient accumulation of
treasure. Pursuing the doctrine professed by his sect, that our
public debt is a national curse, which cannot too promptly be
removed, and adhering to the assurance which he has virtually
given,* that a sponge, the favorite instrument, shall not be em-
ployed for the purpose, how has it happened that he should have
overlooked the simple and obvious expedient of using the sup-
posed excess of income as a remedy for so great a mischief?

* One of the essential principles of government is, " the honest payment of ou
debts and the sacred preservation of the public faith." — Inaugural Speech.

g 48

?54 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[Mt. 44.

After all we have heard in times past, it would ill become
either the head, or any member, of the orthodox sect to contend,
that a too rapid reimbursement of the debt might be attended
with evils. In courtesy, however, this shall be supposed to be
urged by some new convert, who has not entirely shaken off the
prejudices of former modes of thinking ; and it shall be examined,
whether this argument will afford a justification of the measure
recommended.

It shall not be denied, that the immediate payment of our
whole debt, if practicable, would be likely to be injurious in
various ways. It would, in the first instance, produce a money-
plethora (if the phrase may be allowed), which experience has
shown to be inauspicious to the energies, and especially to the
morality and industry of a nation. The quick efflux of this
money to pay a considerable part of the debt in the hands of
foreigners, and to procure from abroad the means of gratifying
an increased extravagance, would, after some time, substitute a
too great vacuity to a too great fulness ; leaving us to struggle
with the bad habits incident to the latter state, and with the em-
barrassments of a defective circulation. To these, other reasons
might be added, which, though equally just and solid, are
omitted as being more liable to dispute.

Though an extreme case is here presented, the immediate
reimbursement of the entire debt ; yet it must be admitted, that
the same considerations are applicable in a less degree to a sum-
mary, or very rapid repayment by large instalments. But the
answer to all this is, that it would have been full time to adopt
precautionary measures against evils from such a source, when
experience had realized the danger. Till such time it is certainly
the highest wisdom to continue the employment of a fund which
is already provided, and without overburdening the people, for
the all-important purpose of exonerating our nation from debt,
and of placing it in a condition, with competent resources to meet
future contingencies which may threaten its safety. On the
other hand, is it not a mark of the highest improvidence and
folly, to throw away an important part of this fund, on the mere
speculation that it may possibly be superfluous ?

.Et. 44.]

THE EXAMINATION. 755

But admitting it to be clearly ascertained, that the fund is
greater than is requisite to extinguish the debt, with convenient
celerity ; does it follow that the excess, if retained, must be suf-
fered to accumulate, and that no different method could have
been found to employ it which would have been productive of
adequate utility ?

Whatever diversity of opinion there may be with regard to
military and naval preparations, for the defence and security of
the country, there are some things in which all well-informed
and reflecting men unite. In order that upon the breaking out
of a war there may be a sufficient supply of warlike implements,
together with the means of speedily creating a navy ; — arsenals,
foundries, dock-yards, magazines (especially of materials for the
construction and equipment of ships), are by all deemed eligible
objects of public care. To provide for these objects upon a com-
petent, though moderate scale, will be attended with expense so
considerable, as to leave nothing to spare from the amount of our
present income. To persons unacquainted with the subject, the
quantities of several articles on hand may appear ample ; but to
good judges there is hardly any one class of supplies, which will
not be thought to require much augmentation. As far as a navy
is concerned, the deficiency is palpable.

If dock-yards are to be established in earnest, they ought
certainly to be well protected. For this purpose, fortifications of
a substantial and durable nature, very different from the tem-
porary shifts hitherto adopted, ought to be erected. And if the
President will inquire into the cost of even these trifling con-
structions, in the instances where they have been managed with
all practicable economy, he will become convinced that the
erection of proper works would call for an expenditure for-
bidding the supposition of a superfluity of revenue.

In addition to objects of national security, there are many
purposes of great public utility to which the revenues in question
might be applied. The improvement of the communications
between the different parts of our country is an object well
wortliy of the national purse, and one which would abundantly
repay to labor the portion of its earnings, which may have been

756 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

borrowed for that purpose. To provide roads and bridges is
within the direct purview of the Constitution. In many parts of
the country, especially in the Western Territory, a matter in
which the Atlantic States are equally interested, aqueducts and
canals would also be fit subjects of pecuniary aid, from the gene-
ral government. In France, England, and other parts of Europe,
institutions exist supported by public contributions, which emi-
nently promote agriculture and the arts ; such institutions merit
imitation by our government ; they are of the number of those
which directly and sensibly recompense labor for what it lends to
their agency.

To suggestions of the last kind, the adepts of the new school
have a ready answer : Industry will succeed and prosper in propor-
tion as it is left to the exertions of individual enterprise. This favor-
ite dogma, when taken as a general rule, is true ; but as an ex-
clusive one, it is false, and leads to error in the administration of
public affairs. In matters of industry, human enterprise ought,
doubtless, to be left free in the main ; not fettered by too much
regulation ; but practical politicians know that it may be bene-
ficially stimulated by prudent aids and encouragements on the
part of the government. This is proved by numerous examples
too tedious to be cited; examples which will be neglected only
by indolent and temporizing rulers, who love to loll in the lap of
epicurean ease, and seem to imagine that to govern well, is to
amuse the wondering multitude with sagacious aphorisms and
oracular sayings.

What has been observed, is sufficient to render it manifest,
that, independent of the extinguishment of the debt, the revenues
proposed to be yielded up, would find ample and very useful
employment for a variety of public purposes. Already in pos-
session of so valuable a resource ; having surmounted the diffi-
culties, which, from the opinions and habits of our citizens,
obstruct, in this, more than in any other country, every new
provision for adding to our public income ; certainly without a
colorable pretence of their being a grievous or undue pressure
on the community — how foolish will it be to resign the boon,
perhaps in a short time to be compelled again to resort to it ;

JEt. 44.]

THE EXAMINATION. 757

and for that purpose to hazard a repetition of the obstacles which
have been before encountered and overcome; obstacles which
gave birth to one insurrection, and may give birth to another !
Infatuated must be the councils from which so injurious a project
has proceeded !

But admitting the position, that there is an excess of income
which ought to be relinquished, still the proposal to surrender the
internal revenue is impolitic. It ought to be carefully preserved,
as not being exposed to the casualties, incident to our intercourse
with foreign nations, and therefore the most certain. It ought to
be preserved, as reaching to descriptions of persons who are not
proportionably affected by the impost, and as tending, for this
reason, to distribute the public burden more equitably. It ought
to be preserved, because if revenue can really be spared, it is
best to do it in such a manner as will conduce to the relief or ad-
vancement of our navigation and commerce. Rather let the
tonnage duty on American vessels be abolished, and let the du-
ties be lessened on some particular articles on which they may
press with inconvenient weight. Let not the merchant be pro-
voked to attempt to evade the duties, by the sentiment that his
ease or interest is disregarded, and that his capital alone is to be
clogged and incumbered by the demands of the Treasury.

But who and what are the merchants, when compared with
the patriotic votaries of whisky in Pennsylvania and Virginia ?

Lucius Crassus.

IV.

December 26, 1801.
It is matter of surprise to observe a proposition to diminish
the revenue, associated with intimations which appear to con
template war. The suggestions in the message respecting the
Barbary States, plainly enough imply, that treaties are found to
be too feeble cords to bind them ; and that a resort to coercive
means will probably be requisite to enforce a greater sense of

758 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

justice towards us. Accordingly, as a comment on this hint, we
have seen a resolution brought into the House of Representa-
tives, authorizing the President to take measures effectually to
protect our commerce against those States. Believing it to be a
sound position, that these predatory nations will never be brought
to respect sufficiently the rights of this country, whether derived
from nature or from compact, without first being made to feel
its power ; there is no disposition to condemn the efficacious em-
ployment of force. Yet, considering the maxims by which
those states are governed, and the obstinacy which they have
evinced upon other occasions, it is likely that a policy of this
sort will be attended with considerable, and with no very tem-
porary expense. This alone is conceived to be a conclusive rea-
son against parting with any portion of our present income :
nothing could be less advisable, at a moment when there is the
prospect, if not the project of a general rupture with those pow-
ers.

Hitherto the proposal for sacrificing the internal revenue, has
been tried almost wholly by the test of expediency ; — it is time to
put it to a severer test ; — that of right. Can the proposed abolition
take effect without impairing the PUBLIC FAITH ?

This is a question of infinite moment to the character of our
government — to the prosperity of our nation. If it is to be an-
swered in the negative, it must be matter of profound regret,
that a proposal which could give rise to it, should have come
from the first magistrate of the United States.

It is hardly necessary to premise, by way of explanation, that
to pledge or appropriate funds for a public debt, is, in effect, to
mortgage them to the public creditors for their security. Retracing
our financial system to its commencement, we find the impost
and the excise on distilled spirits, repeatedly and positively
pledged, first, for the payment and interest of the debt, next, for
the reimbursement of certain instalments of the principal. It is
true, the appropriation is qualified by the words, " so much as
may be necessary," but the public faith is engaged in express
terms, that both the funds shall continue to be levied and collected,
until the whole debt shall be discharged ; with the single re-

jEt.44.] the examination. 759

serve, that the government shall be at liberty to substitute other
funds of equal amount. It follows that these two items of revenue
constitute & joint fund for the security of the public creditor, co-
extensive in duration with the existence of any portion of the
debt : and it is to be inferred, that the government, contemplat-
ing the possibility of a deficiency in one, intended that the other
should serve as an auxiliary, and that the co-operation of the two
should effectually guard the creditor against the fluctuations and
casualties to which either singly might be exposed. Anticipating,
however, the possibility that the one or the other, in whole or in
part, might in practice be found inconvenient, a right was re-
served to exchange either for an adequate substitute. But it is
conceived, that this does not imply the right to exchange the one
for the other. The effect would be essentially different in the two
cases: in the first there would always be two funds, aggregately
of the same or similar force and value, to secure the creditor ;
in the last there would be only one: from being double, the se-
curity would become single.

This mode of reasoning is the only one, upon which the rights
and the interests of the creditors can safely rest : it is plain and
intelligible, and avoids the danger of erroneous speculations about
the separate sufficiency of the respective funds. Admitting, how-
ever, for the sake of the argument, that this is too rigid a con-
struction of the contract, and that when one of the two funds should
have acquired a stable increase, which would render it equal to
the purpose of the pledge, it might then be made to stand in the
place of both : yet, surely, neither the purity of the public faith,
nor the safety of the creditor, will endure the application of this
principle to any other, than to an ascertained result. Neither,
certainly, will tolerate, that merely a reasonable ground of confi-
dence shall authorize so material an alteration in the essence of
the security which protects the debt.

The foregoing reasoning as to the question of right, may be
further elucidated by a particular provision in the act* which
introduced the excise on distilled spirits. After & permanent ap-

* Passed March 3d, 1791.

760 HAMILTON'S WORKS fiEi. 44.

propriation of the proceeds of the tax to the interest of the debt,
it provides that the surplus, if any there shall be, at the end of
each year shall be applied to the reduction of the principal ; un-
less the surplus or any part of it should be required for public
exigencies of the United States, and should be so appropriated
by special " acts of Congress." While at this early period of our
finances it was not thought expedient to appropriate this surplus
absolutely to the sinking fund, it was contemplated that it should
not be diverted, except for public exigencies. Gratuitously to re-
linquish it, is therefore contrary to the letter as well as to the
spirit of the original institution of the fund. The like observa-
tions, though with less force, apply to the provision noticed in
another number, respecting the surpluses of the revenue gener-
ally, which, as we have seen, are all appropriated to the sinking
fund. At the session of Congress immediately succeeding any
year in which such surpluses may accrue, they may be specially
appropriated or reserved by law, for other purposes ; but, if this
be not done, they are then to go of course to the sinking fund.
To appropriate or to reserve, plainly, can never mean to relin-
quish. The true meaning of the provision appears, therefore, to
be, that though Congress, under the restriction expressed as to
time, may appropriate or reserve these surpluses for other objects
of the public service, yet if not wanted for such other objects,
they shall continue to enure to the fund for the reduction of the
debt, so long as, by the laws regulating their duration, they are
continued to be levied.

Thus, on whatever side it is viewed, there is a temerity and
a levity in the proposition which confounds and amazes. If, un-
happily, it shall receive the sanction of Congress, there will re-
main nothing in principle of our system of public credit — nothing
on which the confidence of the creditor can safely repose. The
precedent of a fatal innovation will have been established, and
its extension to a total annihilation of the security, would be a
step not much more violent than that by which the inroad had
commenced. But it is devoutly to be hoped, that the delirium
of party spirit will not so far transport the legislative representa-
tives of the nation, as to induce them to put the seal to a mea-

JEt. 44.] THE EXAMINATION. 761

sure, as motiveless — as precipitate — as impolitic — as faithless — as
could have been dictated, even by a deliberate hostility to the
vital principles of our national credit. Peculiarly the guardians
of the public faith, and of the public purse, they surely will not
consent to betray the one, and impoverish the other, through an
abject and criminal complaisance.

It is a fact not unknown to himself, that abroad, as well as at
home, a diffidence has been entertained of the opinions and
views of the person now at the head of our government, with re-
gard to our system of public credit. This undoubtedly ought to
have been with him a strong reason for caution, especially at so
early a stage of his administration, as to any step which might
strengthen that diffidence, which might be in the least equivocal in
its tendency. Nor ought it to have been overlooked, that the in-
terest of the state, and a regard for his own reputation demanded
this caution. The appearance of instability in the plans of a
government, particularly respecting its finances, can never fail to
make injurious impressions. To a government, the character of
which has not yet been established by time, the example of sud-
den and questionable innovations, may be expected to be in the
highest degree detrimental. Prudent men every where are apt
to take the alarm at great changes not manifestly beneficial and
proper — a disposition which has been much increased by the ter-
rible events of the present revolutionary era. Yet, disregarding
these salutary and obvious reflections, the President has ven-
tured, in the very infancy of his administration, upon the bold
and unjustifiable step of recommending to the legislative body, a
renunciation of the whole internal revenue of the country ; though
the nation is at this moment incumbered with a considerable pub-
lic debt ; and though that very revenue is, by the existing laws,
an established fund for its discharge.

What, then, are we to think of the ostentatious assurance in
the Inaugural Speech as to the preservation of Public Faith?
Was it given merely to amuse with agreeable, but deceptive
sounds ? Is it possible that it could have been intended to con-
ceal the insidious design of aiming a deadly blow at a system
which was opposed in its origin, and has been calumniated in
every stage of its progress ?

762 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 44.

Alas ! how deplorable will it be, should it ever become pro-
verbial, that a President of the United States, like the Wierd
Sisters in Macbeth, " Keeps his promise to the ear, but breaks it to the
sense/"

Lucius Crassus.

no. v.

December 29, 1801.

In the rage for change, or under the stimulus of a deep-rooted
animosity against the former administrations, or for the sake of
gaining popular favor by a profuse display of extraordinary zeal
for economy, even our judiciary system has not passed unas-
sailed. The attack here is not so open as that on the revenue ;
but when we are told that the States individually have "principal
care of our persons, our property and our reputation, constitut-
ing the great field of human concerns ; and that therefore we may
well doubt lohether our organization is not too complicated, too expen-
sive ; whether offices and officers have not been multiplied un-
necessarily, and sometimes injuriously to the service they were
meant to promote ;" when afterwards it is observed that " the
judiciary system will, of course, present itself to the contempla-
tion of Congress ;" and when it appears that pains had been
taken to form and communicate a numerical list of all the causes
decided since the first establishment of the courts, in order that
Congress might be able to judge of the proportion which the in-
stitution bears to the business — with all these indications, it is
not to be misunderstood that the intention was unequivocally to
recommend material alterations in the system.

No bad thermometer of the capacity of our Chief Magistrate
for government is furnished by the rule which he offers for
judging of the utility of the Federal Courts ; namely, the exact
number of causes which have been by them decided. There is
hardly any stronger symptom of a pigmy mind, than a propen-

JEt. 44.] THE EXAMINATION. 763

sity to allow greater weight to secondary than to primary consi-
derations.

It ought, at least, to have been adverted to, that if this cir-
cumstance were a perfect criterion, it is yet too early to apply it,
especially to the courts recently erected : and it might have me-
rited reflection, that it would have been prudent to wait for a
more advanced period of the presidential term, to ascertain what
influence the great change which has lately happened in our
public functionaries may have on the confidence, which in many
parts of the Union has heretofore been reposed in the State
Courts, so as to prevent a preference of those of the United
States.

But, to enable us duly to appreciate the wisdom of the pro-
jected innovation, it is necessary to review the objects which
were designed to be accomplished by the arrangement of the
judiciary power, as it is seen in the Constitution, and to examine
the organization which has been adopted, to give effect to those
objects.

It is well known to all who were acquainted with the situation
of our public affairs when the Constitution was framed, and it is to
be inferred from the provisions of the instrument itself, that the
objects contemplated, were, 1st. To provide a faithful and effi-
cient organ for carrying into execution the laws of the United
States, which otherwise would be a dead letter. 2d. To secure
the fair interpretation and execution of our treaties with foreign
nations. 3d. To maintain harmony between the individual
States ; not only by an independent and impartial mode of deter-
mining controversies between them, but by frustrating the effects
of partial laws in any one, injurious to the rights of the citizens
of another. 4th. To guard generally against invasions of pro-
perty and right, by fraudulent and oppressive laws of particular
States, enforced by their own tribunals. 5th. To guard the
rights and conciliate the confidence of foreigners, by giving them
the option of tribunals created by, and responsible to, the gene-
ral government; which, having the immediate charge of our
external relations, including the care of our national peace,
might be expected to be more tenacious of such an administra-

<T64 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[JEt. 44.

tion of justice as would leave to the citizens of other countries
no real cause of complaint. 6th. To protect reciprocally the
rights and inspire mutually the confidence of the citizens of dif-
ferent States in their intercourse with each other, by enabling
them to resort to tribunals so constituted, as to be essentially
free from local bias or partiality. 7th. To give the citizens of
each State a fair chance of impartial justice through the medium
of those tribunals, in cases in which the titles to property might
depend, on the conflicting grants of different States. These
were the immensely important objects to be attained by the insti-
tution of an adequate judiciary power, in the government of the
United States. Nor did its institution depend upon mere specu-
lative opinion, though, indeed, even that would have been sufficient
to indicate the expediency of the measure : but experience had
actually, in a variety of ways, demonstrated its necessity.

The treaties of the United States had been infracted by State
laws, put in execution by State judicatories. The rights of pro-
perty had been invaded by the same means, in numerous in-
stances, as well with respect to foreigners as to citizens ; as well
between citizens of different States as between citizens of the
same State. There were many cases in which lands were held
or claimed under adverse grants of different States, having rival
pretensions ; and in respect to which, the local tribunals, even if
not fettered by the local laws, could hardly be expected to be
impartial. In several of the States the courts were so constituted
as not to afford sufficient assurance of a pure, enlightened, and
independent administration of justice ; an evil which in some of
them still continues. From these different sources serious mis-
chiefs had been felt. The interests of the United States, in their
foreign concerns, had suffered ; their reputation had been tar-
nished; their peace endangered; their mutual harmony had
been disturbed or menaced ; creditors in numerous instances had
been ruined or very much injured: confidence in pecuniary
transactions had been destroyed, and the springs of industry had
been proportionably relaxed. To these circumstances, as much,
perhaps, as any other that accompanied a defective social organi-
zation, are we to attribute that miserable and prostrate situation

jEt. 44.] THE EXAMINATION. Y65

of our affairs which, immediately before the establishment of our
present National Constitution, tilled every intelligent lover of his
country with affliction and mortification. To the institution of
a competent judiciary, little less than to any one provision in
that Constitution, is to be ascribed the rapid and salutary reno-
vation of our affairs, which succeeded.

The enumeration* of the component parts of the judicial
power, in the Constitution, has an evident eye to the several ob-
jects which have been stated. And considering their vast mag-
nitude, no sound politician will doubt that the principal question,
with the administration, ought to be, how to give the greatest
efficacy to this essential part of the system ; in comparison with
which the more or less of expense, must be a matter of trivial
moment. The difference of expense between an enlarged and a
contracted plan, may be deemed an atom in the great scale of
national expenditure. The fulfilment of the important ends of
this part of our constitutional plan, though with but a small de-
gree of additional energy, facility, or convenience, must infinitely
overbalance the consideration of such difference of expense.

The number of causes which have been tried in these courts,
as already intimated, can furnish but a very imperfect test, by
which to decide upon their utility or necessity. Their existence
alone has a powerful and salutary effect. The liberty to use
them, even where it is not often exercised, inspires confidence in
the intercourse of business. They are viewed as beneficent
guardians, whose protection may be claimed when necessary.
They induce caution in the State Courts, and promote in them a
more attentive, if not a more able administration of justice.
Though in some districts of the Union, the Federal Courts are

* " Sec. II. The judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and equity,
arising under this Constitution ; the laws of the United States, and treaties made,
or which shall be made, under their authority ; to all cases affecting ambassadors,
other public ministers and consuls ; to all cases of admiralty and maritime juris-
diction ; to controversies to which the United States shall be a party ; to contro-
versies between two or more States ; between a State and citizens of another State ;
between citizens of different States ; between citizens of the same State claiming
lands under grants of different States, and between a State, or the citizens thereof,
and foreign States, citizens or subjects."

I
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

seldom resorted to. in others they are used in an extensive degree,
particularly as between foreigners and citizens, and between
citizens of different States.

That their organization throughout the United States ought
to be uniform, will not be denied, and it is evident that it ought
to be regulated by the situation of those parts in which a greater
degree of employment denotes the courts to be most necessary.
Of consequence, if the quantity of business were at all a guide,
the scenes in which there is the greatest employment for the
Federal Courts, ought to furnish the rule of computation ; it ought
not to be sought for in the aggregate of business, throughout the
Union. In reference to this point, it is likewise material to ob-
serve that, from the manner in which the Federal Courts were
constituted, previous to the last arrangement, the organization of
the State Courts was so much better adapted to expedition, as to
afford a strong motive for giving them a preference. The estab-
lishment of Circuit Courts, as now modified, will vary that cir-
cumstance, and thus attract more business ; but it is evident that
it must require a course of years fully to exemplify its operation.
To attempt, therefore, to draw important inferences from the
short experience hitherto had, is worse than puerile.

Lucius Crassus.

no VI.

January, 1802.

In answer to the observations in the last number, it may per-
haps be said, that the message meant nothing more than to con-
demn the recent multiplication of Federal Courts, and to bring
them back to their original organization: considering that as
adequate to all the purposes of the Constitution ; to all the ends
of justice and policy.

Towards forming a right judgment on this point, it may be
of service to those who are not familiar with the subject, to state

Mt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 767

briefly what was the former, and what is the present establish-
ment.

The former consisted of one Supreme Court with six judges,
who twice a year made the tour of the United States, distribut-
ed into three circuits, for the trial of causes arising in the re-
spective districts of each circuit ; and of fifteen District Courts,
each having a single judge. The present consists of one Su-
preme Court with the like number of judges, to be reduced on
the first vacancy happening, to five; of six Circuit Courts, hav-
ing three distinct judges each, excepting one circuit, which has
only a single circuit judge ; and of twenty-two District Courts,
with a judge for each as before : In both plans, the Supreme
Court is to hold two terms at the seat of government, and the
Circuit Courts are to be holden twice a year in each district :
The material difference in the two, as it respects the organs by
which they are executed, is reducible to the creation of twenty-
three additional judges; sixteen for the six Circuit Courts, seven
for the superadded District Courts, and the addition of the ne-
cessary clerks, marshals, and subordinate officers of Seven Courts.
This shows at a single view, that the difference of expense, as
applied to the United States, is of trifling consideration.

But here an inquiry naturally presents itself; why was the
latter plan substituted to the former more economical one ? The
solution is easy and satisfactory. The first was inadequate to its
object, and incapable of being carried into execution. The ex-
tent of the United States is manifestly too large for the due at-
tendance of the six judges in the Circuit Courts. The immense
journeys they were obliged to perform, kept them from their
families for several successive months in the year ; this rendered
the office a grievous burden, and had a strong tendency to ban-
ish or exclude men of the best talents and characters from these
important stations. It is known to have been no light induce-
ment with one Chief Justice, whose health was delicate, to quit
that office for another attended with less bodily fatigue ; and it
is well understood that other important members of the Supreme
Court were prepared to resign their situations, if there had not
been some alteration of the kind which has taken place. It was
HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 45.

also no uncommon circumstance for temporary interruption in
the health of particular judges, of whom only one was attached
to a circuit, to occasion a failure in the sessions of the courts ■
to the no small disappointment, vexation and loss of the suitor.
At any rate the necessity of visiting, within a given time, the
numerous parts of an extensive circuit, unavoidably rendered
the sessions of each court so short, that, where suits were in any
degree multiplied, or intricate, there was not time to get through
the business with due deliberation. Besides all this, the inces-
sant fatigues of the judges of the Supreme Court, and their long
and frequent absences from home, prevented that continued at-
tention to their studies, which even the most learned will confess
to be necessary for those, intrusted in the last resort with ques-
tions frequently novel, always of magnitude, affecting not only
the property of individuals, but the rights of foreign nations,
and the Constitution of the country.

For these reasons, it became necessary either to renounce the
Circuit Courts, or to constitute them differently : the latter was
preferred. The United States were divided into six circuits, with
a proper number of judges to preside over each. No man of
discernment will pretend that the number of circuits is too great.
Surely three States, forming an area of territory equal to that
possessed by some of the first powers of Europe, must afford a
quantity of business sufficient to employ three judges on a cir-
cuit, twice a year; and certainly not less than three will suffice
for the dispatch of business, whether the number of causes be
small or great. The inconsiderable addition made to the number
of the District Courts will hardly excite criticism, and does not,
therefore, claim a particular discussion, nor will their necessity
be generally questioned. They are almost continually occupied
with revenue and admiralty causes, besides the great employ-
ment collaterally given to the judges, in the execution of the
Bankrupt Act, which probably must increase instead of being
diminished.

Perhaps it may be contended, that the Circuit Courts ought
to be abolished altogether, and the business for which they are
designed, left to the State Courts, with a right of appeal to the

jEt.45.1 the examination. 769

Supreme Courts of the United States. Indeed, it is probable
that this was the true design of the intimation in the Message :
A disposition to magnify the importance of the particular States, in
derogation from that of the United States, is a feature in that com-
munication, not to be mistaken. But to such a scheme there
are insuperable objections. The right of appeal is by no means
equivalent to the right of applying, in the first instance, to a
tribunal agreeable to the suitor. The desideratum is to have
impartial justice, at a moderate expense, administered " prompt-
ly and without delay ;" not to be obliged to seek it through
the long, and tedious, and expensive process of an appeal. It is
true, that in causes of sufficient magnitude, an appeal ought to
be open ; which includes the possibility of going through that
process; but when the courts of original jurisdiction are so con-
stituted as not only to deserve, but to inspire confidence, appeals,
from the inevitable inconvenience attached to them, are excep-
tions to the general rule of redress ; where the contrary is the
situation, they become the general rule itself. Appeals will then
be multiplied to a pernicious extent ; while the difficulties to
which they are liable, operate in numerous instances as a pre
ventive of justice, because they fall with most weight on the
least wealthy suitor. It is to be remembered, that the cases in
which the Federal Courts would be perferred, are those, where
there would exist some distrust of the State Courts ; and this
distrust would be a fruitful source of appeals. To Fay that there
could be no good cause for this distrust, and that the danger of
it is imaginary, is to be wiser than experience, and wiser than
the Constitution. The first officer of the government, when
speaking in his official capacity, has no right to attempt to be
thus wise. His duty exacts of him that he should respectfully
acquiesce in the spirit and ideas of that instrument under which
he is appointed.

The detail would be invidious, perhaps injurious; else it
would be easy to show, that however great the confidence to
which the tribunals in some of the States are entitled, there is
just cause for suspicion as to those of others ; and that in respect
to a still greater number, it would be inexpedient to delegate
G 49

^° HAMILTON'S WORKS. [iEi. 45.

to them the care of interests which are specially and properly
confided to the government of the United States.

The plan of using the State Courts as substitutes for the Circuit
Courts of the Union, is objectionable in another view The citi-
zens of the United States have a right to except from those who
administer our government, the efficacious enjoyment of those
privileges, as suitors, for which the Constitution has provided
To turn them round, from the enjoyment of those privileges in
originating their causes, to the eventual and dilatory resource of
an appeal, is in a great degree to defeat the object contemplated
1 his is a consideration of much real weight, especially to the
merchants in our commercial States.

In the investigation of our subject, it is not to be forgotten
that the right to employ the agency of the State Courts, for exe-
cuting the laws of the Union, is liable to question, and has, in
tact, been seriously questioned. This circumstance renders it
the more indispensable, that the permanent organization of the
federal Judiciary should be adapted to the prompt and vi-orous
execution of those laws.

The right of Congress to discontinue judges once appointed,
by the abrogation of the courts for which they were appointed
especially as it relates to their emoluments, offers matter for a
toucheT Si°n' but Which Sha11 now be onlJ superficially

On the one hand, it is not easy to maintain that Congress can-
not abolish courts which, having been once instituted, are found
in practice, to be inconvenient and unnecessary. On the other
if it may be done, so as to include the annihilation of existing
judges, it is evident that the measure may be used to defeat that
clause of the Constitution, which renders the duration and the
emoluments of the judicial office coextensive with the good be-
havior of the officer ; an object essential to the independence of
the judges, the security of the citizen, and the preservation of the
government.

As a medium which may reconcile opposite ideas, and obviate
opposite inconveniences, it would, perhaps, be the best and safest

MT.m THE EXAMINATION. V71

practical construction to say, that though Congress may abolish
the courts, yet shall the actual judges retain their character and
their emoluments, with the authorities of office, so far as they can
be exercised elsewhere than in the courts. For this construction,
a precedent exists in the last arrangement of the Judiciary.
Though the number of the judges of the Supreme Court is re-
duced from six to five, yet the actual reduction is wisely deferred
I to the happening of a vacancg. The expense of continuing the
salaries of the existing incumbents, cannot prudently be put in
competition with the advantage of guarding from invasion one
of the most precious provisions in the Constitution Nor ought
it to be without its weight, that this modification will best com-
port with good faith, on the part of government, towards those
who had been invited to accept offices, to be held, not by an un-
certain tenure, but during good behavior.

Weighing maturely all the very important and very delicate
considerations which appertain to the subject would a wise or
prudent statesman hazard the consequences of immediately un-
making, at one session, courts and judges, which had only been
called into being at the one preceding ? Delectable indeed must
be the work of disorganization, to a mind which can thus rashly
advance in its prosecution '.-Infatuated must that people be who
do not open their eyes to projects so intemperate-so mischiev-
ous ,__Who does not see what is the ultimate object Delenda
est Carthago-lW-Med Constitution, which Americans had fondly
hoped would continue for ages, the guardian of public liberty,
the source of national prosperity ! ^^ ^^^

NO. VII.

January 7, 1802.

The next most exceptionable feature in the Message, is the
proposal to abolish all restriction on naturalization, arising from

772 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 45.

a previous residence. In this the President is not more at va-
riance with the concurrent maxims of all commentators on popular
governments, than he is with himself. The Notes on Virginia
are in direct contradiction to the Message, and furnish us with
strong reasons against the policy now recommended. The passage
alluded to is here presented. Speaking of the population of
America, Mr. Jefferson says, " Here I will beg leave to propose
a doubt. The present desire of America, is to produce rapid
population, by as great importations of foreigners as possible. But
is this founded in good policy?" "Are there no inconveniences
to be thrown into the scale, against the advantage expected from
a multiplication of numbers, by the importation of foreigners ? It
is for the happiness of those united in society, to harmonize as
much as possible, in matters which they must of necessity transact
together. Civil government being the sole object of forming
societies, its administration must be conducted by common consent.
Every species of government has its specific principles. Ours,
perhaps, are more peculiar than those of any other in the universe.
It is a composition of the freest principles of the English Constitution,
with others, derived from natural right and reason. To these,
nothing can be more opposed than the maxims of absolute monar-
chies. Yet from such, we are to expect the greatest number of
emigrants. They will bring with them the principles of the govern-
ments they leave, imbibed in their early youth ; or if able to throw
them off, itwillbein exchange for an unbounded licentiousness, passing
as is usual, from one extreme to another. It would be a miracle were
they to stop precisely at the point of temperate liberty. Their principles
with their language, they will transmit to their children. In propor-
tion to their numbers, they will share with us in the legislation.
They will infuse into it their spirit, warp and bias its direction, and
render it a heterogeneous, incoherent, distracted mass. I may appeal
to experience, during the present contest, for a verification of
these conjectures ; but if they be not certain in event, are they
not possible, are they not probable ? Is it not safer to wait with
patience for the attainment of any degree of population desired or ex-
pected ? May not our government be more homogeneous, more
peaceable, more durable? Suppose twenty millions of republican

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 773

Americans, thrown all of a sndden into France, what would be
the condition of that kingdom? If it would be more turbulent,
less happy, less strong, we may believe that the addition of half
a million of foreigners, to our present numbers, would produce
a similar effect here." Thus wrote Mr. Jefferson in 1781 — Behold
the reverse of the medal. The Message of the President contains
the following sentiments : " A denial of citizenship under a resi-
dence of fourteen years, is a denial to a great proportion of those
who ask it, and controls a policy pursued from their first settle-
ment, by many of these States, and still believed of consequence to
their prosperity. And shall we refuse to the unhappy fugitives
from distress, that hospitality which the savages of the wilderness ex-
tended to our fathers arriving in this land f Shall oppressed humani-
ty find no asylum on this globe ? Might not the general charac-
ter and capabilities of a citizen, be safely communicated to every
one manifesting a bona fide purpose of embarking his life and
fortune permanently with us?"

But if gratitude can be allowed to form an excuse for incon-
sistency in a public character — in the man of the people ; a strong
plea of this sort may be urged in behalf of our President. It is
certain, that had the late election been decided entirely by native
citizens ; had foreign auxiliaries been rejected on both sides, the
man who ostentatiously vaunts that the doors of public honor and
confidence have been burst open to him, would not now have been at
the head of the American nation. Such a proof then of virtuous
discernment in the oppressed fugitives, had an imperious claim on
him to a grateful return, and without supposing any very uncom-
mon share of self-love, would naturally be a strong reason for a
revolution in his opinions.

The pathetic and plaintive exclamations by which the senti-
ment is enforced, might be liable to much criticism, if we are to
consider it in any other light, than as a flourish of rhetoric. It
might be asked in return, does the right to asylum or hospitality
carry with it the right to suffrage and sovereignty ? And what
indeed was the courteous reception which was given to our fore-
fathers, by the savages of the wilderness? When did these
humane and philanthropic savages exercise the policy of incor-

774 HAMILTON'S WORKS. |>Et. 45.

porating strangers among themselves, on their first arrival in the
country ? When did they admit them into their huts, to make
part of their families? and when did they distinguish them by
making them their sachems ? Our histories and traditions have
been more than apocryphal, if any thing like this kind and gen-
tle treatment was really lavished by the much-belied savages
upon our thankless forefathers. But the remark obtrudes itself,
had it all been true, prudence requires us to trace the history
farther, and ask what has become of the nations of savages who
exercised this policy? And who now occupies the territory
which they then inhabited ? Perhaps a lesson is here taught
which ought not to be despised.

But we may venture to ask what does the President really
mean, by insinuating that we treat aliens coming to this country
with inhospitality ? Do we not permit them quietly to land on
our shores ? Do we not protect them equally with our own citi-
zens, in their persons and reputation ; in the acquisition and en-
joyment of property? Are not our courts of justice open for
them to seek redress of injuries? And are they not permitted
peaceably to return to their own country whenever they please,
and to carry with them all their effects ? What then means this
worse than idle declamation ?

The impolicy of admitting foreigners to an immediate and
unreserved participation in the right of suffrage, or in the sove-
reignty of a republic, is as much a received axiom as any thing
in the science of politics, and is verified by the experience of all
ages. Among other instances, it is known, that hardly any thing
contributed more to the downfall of Rome, than her precipitate
communication of the privileges of citizenship to the inhabitants
of Italy at large. And how terribly was Syracuse scourged by
perpetual seditions, when, after the overthrow of the tyrants, a
great number of foreigners were suddenly admitted to the rights
of citizenship? Not only does ancient, but modern, and even
domestic story, furnish evidence of what may be expected from
the dispositions of foreigners, when they get too early a footing
in a country. Who wields the sceptre of France, and has erected
a despotism on the ruins of her former government ? A foreigner.

jEt.45.] the examination. 775

Who rules the councils of our own ill-fated, unhappy country ?
And who stimulates persecution on the heads of its citizens, for
daring to maintain an opinion, and for daring to exercise the
rights of suffrage ? A foreigner ! — Where then is the virtuous
pride that once distinguished Americans ? — Where the indignant
spirit which in defence of principle, hazarded a revolution to
attain that independence now insidiously attacked ?

Lucius Crassus.

no. VIII.

January 12th, 1802.

Eesuming the subject of our last paper, we proceed to trace
still farther, the consequences that must result from a too unqua-
lified admission of foreigners to an equal participation in our civil
and political rights.

The safety of a republic depends essentially on the energy of
a common national sentiment ; on a uniformity of principles and
habits ; on the exemption of the citizens from foreign bias, and
prejudice ; and on that love of country which will almost in-
variably be found to be closely connected with birth, education,
and family.

The opinion advanced in the Notes on Virginia is undoubtedly
correct, that foreigners will generally be apt to bring with them
attachments to the persons they have left behind ; to the country
of their nativity, and to its particular customs and manners.
They will also entertain opinions on government congenial with
those under which they have lived ; or if they should be led
hither from a preference to ours, how extremely unlikely is it
that they will bring with them that temperate love of liberty, so
essential to real republicanism ? There may, as to particular
individuals, and at particular times, be occasional exceptions to
these remarks, yet such is the general rule. The influx of
foreigners must, therefore, tend to produce a heterogeneous com-
pound ; to change and corrupt the national spirit ; to complicate

776 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^t. 45.

and confound public opinion ; to introduce foreign propensities.
In the composition of society, the harmony of the ingredients is
all-important, and whatever tends to a discordant intermixture
must have an injurious tendency.

The United States have already felt the evils of incorporating
a large number of foreigners into their national mass ; by pro-
moting in different classes different predilections in favor of par-
ticular foreign nations, and antipathies against others, it has
served very much to divide the community and to distract our
councils. It has been often likely to compromit the interests of
our own country in favor of another. The permanent effect of
such a policy will be, that in times of great public danger there
will be always a numerous body of men, of whom there may be
just grounds of distrust; the suspicion alone will weaken the
strength of the nation, but their force may be actually employed
in assisting an invader.

In the infancy of the country, with a boundless waste to peo-
ple, it was politic to give a facility to naturalization ; but our
situation is now changed. It appears from the last census, that
we have increased about one-third in ten years ; after allowing
for what we have gained from abroad, it will be quite apparent
that the natural progress of our own population is sufficiently
rapid for strength, security, and settlement. By what has been
said, it is not meant to contend for a total prohibition of the right
of citizenship to strangers, nor even for the very long residence
which is now a prerequisite to naturalization, and which of itself
goes far towards a denial of that privilege. The present law was
merely a temporary measure adopted under peculiar circum-
stances, and perhaps demands revision. But there is a wide
difference between closing the door altogether and throwing it
entirely open ; between a postponement of fourteen years, and an
immediate admission to all the rights of citizenship. Some rea-
sonable term ought to be allowed to enable aliens to get rid of
foreign and acquire American attachments ; to learn the prin-
ciples and imbibe the spirit of our government ; and to admit of
a probability at least, of their feeling a real interest in our affairs.
A residence of not less than five years ought to be required.

Mi. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 711

If the rights of naturalization may be communicated by parts,
and it is not perceived why they may not, those peculiar to the
conducting of business and the acquisition of property, might
with propriety be at once conferred, upon receiving proof, by
certain prescribed solemnities, of the intention of the candidates
to become citizens; postponing all political privileges to the ulti-
mate term. To admit foreigners indiscriminately to the rights of
citizens, the moment they put foot in our country, as recom-
mended in the message, would be nothing less than to admit the
Grecian horse into the citadel of our liberty and sovereignty.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. IX.

January 18, 1802.
The leading points of the message have been sufficiently can-
vassed, and it is believed to have been fully demonstrated, that
this communication is chargeable with all the faults which were
imputed to it on the outset of the examination. We have shown
that it has made, or attempted to make, prodigal sacrifices of
constitutional energy, of sound principle, and of public interest.
In the doctrine respecting war, there is a senseless abandonment
of the just and necessary authority of the executive department,
in a point material to our national safety. In the proposal to
relinquish the internal revenue, there is an attempt to establish a
precedent ruinous to our public credit ; calculated to prolong the
burthen of the debt, and to enfeeble and sink the government, by
depriving it of resources of great importance to its respectability,
to the accomplishment of its most salutary plans, to the power of
being useful. In the attack upon the judiciary establishment,
there is a plain effort to impair that organ of the government :
one on which its efficiency and success absolutely depend. In
the recommendation to admit indiscriminately foreign emigrants
to the privileges of American citizens, on their first entrance into
our country, there is an attempt to break down every pale which

778 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45.

has been erected for the preservation of a national spirit and a
national character, and to let in the most powerful means of per-
verting and corrupting both the one and the other.

This is more than the moderate opponents of Mr. Jefferson's
elevation ever feared from his administration ; much more than
the most wrong-headed of his own sect dared to hope ; infinitely
more than any one who had read the fair professions in his In-
augural speech could have suspected. Reflecting men must be
dismayed at the prospect before us. If such rapid strides have
been hazarded in the very gristle of his administration, what may
be expected when it shall arrive at manhood ? In vain was the
collected wisdom of America convened at Philadelphia, — In vain
were the anxious labors of a Washington bestowed. — Their works
are regarded as nothing better than empty bubbles, destined to
be blown away by the mere breath of a disciple of Turgot ; of a
pupil of Condorcet.

Though the most prominent features of the message have been
portrayed, and their deformity exhibited in true colors ; there
remain many less important traits not yet touched, which, how-
ever, will materially assist us in determining its true character.
To particularize them with minuteness would employ more time
and labor than the object deserves ; yet to pass them by, wholly
without remark, would be to forego valuable materials for illus-
trating the true nature of the performance under examination.

There remains to be cursorily noticed, a disposition in our
Chief Magistrate, far more partial to the State governments, than
to our National government ; to pull down rather than to
build up our federal edifice — to villify the past administrations of
the latter — to court for himself popular favor by artifices not to be
approved, either for their dignity, their candor or their patriotism.
Why are we emphatically and fastidiously told, that " the
States individually have the principal care of our persons, o\xvp)rop-
erty and our reputation, constituting the great field of human concerns V
Was it to render the State governments more dear to us, more
the objects of affectionate solicitude ? Nothing surely was neces-
sary on this head ; they are already the favorites of the people,
and if they do not forfeit the advantage by a most gross abuse of

jEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION.
trust, must, by the very nature of the objects confided to them,
continue always to be so. Was it to prevent too large a portion
of affection from being bestowed on the general government?
No pains on this score were requisite ; not only for the reason
just assigned, but for the further reason that the more peculiar
objects of this government, though no less essential to our pros-
perity than those of the State governments, oblige it often to act
upon the community in a manner more likely to produce aversion
than fondness. Accordingly every day furnishes proof, that it
is not the spoiled child of the many. On this point the high exam-
ple of the President himself is pregnant with instruction. Was
it to indicate the supreme importance of the State governments
over that of the United States? This was as little useful as it
was correct. Considering the vast variety of humors, preposses-
sions and localities which, in the much diversified composition of
these States, militate against the weight and authority of the
.general government, if union under that government is necessary,
it can answer no valuable purpose to depreciate its importance in
the eyes of the people. It is not correct ; because to the care of
the federal government are confided directly, those great, general
interests on which all particular interests materially depend : our
safety in respect to foreign nations ; our tranquillity in respect to
each other ; the foreign and mutual commerce of the States ; the
establishment and regulation of the money of the country ; the
management of our national finances ; indirectly, the security of
liberty by the guaranty of a republican form of government to
each State ; the security of property by interdicting any State from
emitting paper money or from passing laws impairing the obliga-
tion of contracts (from both of which causes the rights of property
had experienced serious injury) ; the prosperity of agriculture
and manufactures, as intimately connected with that of commerce,
and as depending in a variety of ways upon the agency of the
general government. In fine, it is the province of the general
government to manage the greatest number of those concerns in
which the provident activity and exertion of government are of
most importance to the people ; and we have only to compare the
state of our country antecedent to the establishment of the federal

V80 HAMILTON'S WORKS,

[/Et. 45.

Constitution, with what it has been since, to be convinced that
the most operative causes of public prosperity depend upon that
Constitution. It is not meant, by what has been said, to insin-
uate that the State governments are not extremely useful in their
proper spheres ; but the object is to guard against the mischiefs
of exaggerating their importance, in derogation from that of the
general right. Every attempt to do this, is, remotely, a stab at
the union of these States ; a blow to our collective existence as
one people — and to all the blessings which are interwoven with
that sacred fraternity.

If it be true, as insinuated, that, " our organization is too com-
plicated— too expensive," let it be simplified ; let this, however,
be done in such a manner as not to mutilate, weaken, and even-
tually destroy our present system, but to increase the energy, and
insure the duration of our national government — the Rock of
our Political Salvation.

In this insinuation, and in the suggestion that " offices and
officers have been unnecessarily multiplied ;" in the intimation
that appropriations have not been sufficiently specific, and that the
system of accountability to a single department has been disturb-
ed ; in this, and in other things, too minute to be particularized,
we discover new proofs of the disposition of the present executive,
unjustly and indecorously to arraign his predecessors.

As far as the message undertakes to specify any instance of the
* improper complexity of our organization, namely, in the instance
of the judiciary establishment, the late administration has been
already vindicated.

As to the " undue multiplication of offices and officers," it is
substantially a misrepresentation. It would be nothing less than
a miracle if, in a small number of instances, it had not happened
that particular offices and officers might have been dispensed with.
For, in the early essays of a new government, in making the va-
rious establishments relative to the affairs of a nation, some mis-
takes iu this respect will arise, notwithstanding the greatest
caution. It must happen to every government that, in the hurry
of a new plan, some agents will occasionally be employed, who
may not be absolutely necessary ; and this, where there is every

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 7S1

inclination to economy. Similar things may have happened un-
der our past administrations ; but any competent judge, who will
take the trouble to examine, will be convinced, that there is no
just cause for blame in this particular.

The President has not pointed out the cases to which he ap-
plies the charge ; but he has communicated information of some
retrenchments which he has made, and probably intends that
from these the truth of the accusation shall be inferred.

Three instances are particularly presented ; these shall be
briefly examined; it will be seen that they do not justify the
imputation. They respect certain ministers at foreign courts;
some navy agents at particular ports; and some inspectors of the
revenue in particular States.

As to the first, it is believed to be a pretty just idea, that we
ought not greatly to multiply diplomatic agencies. Three per-
manent ones may, perhaps, be found sufficient in the future pro-
gress of our affairs: for France, Spain, and England. The ex-
pediency of having three, is recognized by the conduct of our
present Chief Magistrate. But others must be employed, and
during particular seasons it may be wise to do it for a considera-
ble length of time. Indeed there is strong ground for an opin-
ion entertained by very sensible men, that there ought to be a
permanent minister at every court with which we have exten-
sive commercial relations.

Two other ministers were employed by both the former ad-
ministrations, one with Portugal, the other with Holland; and
it is asserted without fear of denial, that when this was done by
the first President, it was with the approbation of Mr. Jefferson
himself. One other minister was employed by the late President
at the court of Berlin.

A commercial treaty with Portugal is admitted, on all hands,
to be particularly desirable ; as very interesting branches of our
commerce are carried on in the Portuguese dominions. We are
still without any such treaty : to send to that court a diplomatic
agent to endeavor to effect one, was a measure of evident pro-
priety ; to recall him before a treaty had been effected, must be
of questionable expediency. The views and circumstances of

7S2 HAMILTON'S WQRKS. [Mr. 45.

nations change ; and an opportunity may occur, at some particu-
lar conjuncture, for effecting what was not before possible, which
may be lost by the want of a fit agent on the spot to embrace it.
But admitting the experiment has now been sufficiently tried to
justify its abandonment, still it does not follow that it was un-
wise to have continued it as long as it was ; and as this must at
least rest in opinion, the continuance, if upon an erroneous cal-
culation in this particular, is no proof of a " disposition to multi-
ply offices or officers." And those who consider the nature and
extent of our commercial relations with Portugal, will not cease
to think it problematical, whether the expense of a diplomatic
agent, especially in a situation in which nothing has been de-
fined by treaty, ought to stand in competition with the benefits
which may result from the presence of a minister at the court of
that kingdom. This consideration alone is sufficient to repel
the charge.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. X.

Jauuary 19th, 1802.
As to Holland — being the second power which acknowledged
our independence, and made a treaty with us, a step which in-
volved her in war with Great Britain, it was deemed proper to
treat her with a marked respect. Besides this, from the time of
our revolution to the present, we have had large money concerns
with her people. A trusty and skilful public agent was for a
long time necessary to superintend those concerns ; and by the
annexation of a diplomatic character, a double purpose was an-
swered. The honorable nature of the station enabled the gov-
ernment to find a competent agent at a less expense than would
have been requisite to procure one merely for the money object.
It is not meant to deny, that the great change which has lately
happened in the affairs of that country, making it in effect a de-
pendency on France, rendered a removal of the minister proper :

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 783

but it does not follow that it ought to have been done sooner.
It is also known, that Mr. Murray, the late envoy, has been for
a considerable time past employed in onr negotiations with
France, which probably was a collateral reason for not recalling
him sooner. In respect to one, if not to both these agents, it
may be observed, that a time of war was not the most eligible
moment for the removal of a minister.

As to Berlin, the inducements for keeping a minister there,
have never been fully explained. It is only known, that our
commercial treaty with Prussia had expired, and that a renewal
has been effected by the envoy sent thither ; but influential as
was the court of Prussia in the affairs of Europe, during the late
dreadful storm, it may have been conceived that a cultivation of
the good will of the Prussian monarch was not a matter of indif-
ference to the peace and security of this country. If this was
the object of the mission, though there may have been too far-
fetched a policy in the case, it offers a defence of the measure,
which exculpates the executive, at least from the charge of a de-
sire to multiply officers improvidently.

On the most unfavorable supposition, then, here was one di-
plomatic agent too many, and two others were continued longer
than was absolutely necessary. This surely is not of magnitude
sufficient to constitute a serious charge, where malevolence does
not inspire a spirit of accusation. In considering this question,
it ought to be remembered, that it is the prevailing policy of
governments to keep diplomatic agents at all courts where they
have important relations.

As to the navy agents, it is sufficient to say, that they were
temporary persons who grew up out of our rupture with France ;
who, when they were appointed, were useful to accelerate naval
preparations at as many points as could be advantageously occu-
pied, and that it was only proper to discontinue them when an ac-
commodation had been effected, and after they had had time enough
to wind up the affairs of their agency. This was not the case
previous to Mr. Jefferson's administration. Accordingly, in some
early instances of removal, it was only done to substitute mem.
bers of his own sect. And though several of the navy agents

7K4 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45

were afterwards discontinued, spleen itself cannot imagine any
color of blame, either as to the appointment or continuance of them.

As to the inspectors of the revenue, the case in brief stands
thus: When the excise on distilled spirits was established,
three different descriptions of officers were instituted to carry it
into effect — supervisors, inspectors, and collectors, distributed
to districts, surveys and divisions, one to each. A district com-
prehending an entire State ; a survey some large portions of
it or a number of counties ; a division for the most part a
single county. In some of the small States there were no dis-
tinct officers for the surveys — the duties of inspectors being an-
nexed to those of supervisor ; in larger ones there were inspec-
tors; more or less numerous, according to their extent. As
other internal revenues were established, they were put under
the management of the same officers. The bare statement of the
fact shows the necessity of these officers. The revenues of no gov-
ernment were perhaps ever collected under a more simple organ-
ization, or through a smaller number of channels. It is not al-
leged that the first and last classes of officers were unnecessary.
It is only to the middle class that any specious objection can be
made. Let us conjecture the reasons for employing them.

In some of the States great opposition was expected, and was
actually experienced. In such States especially, it was evidently
useful to have the exertions of some men of weight and charac-
ter in spheres of moderate extent, to reconcile the discontented ;
to arrange the details of business, and to give energy to the mea-
sures for collection. In others, similar officers were probably
useful in the early stages, for the purpose of establishing the de-
tails simply. The subdivision was in all cases favorable to an
active and vigilant superintendence. Nor does it require extra-
ordinary penetration to discern that the policy was wise at the
time when the measure was adopted. It is possible that upon
the complete establishment of the plan, when all opposition had
been vanquished, and when the collection had become an affair
of mere routine, that this intermediate class may have ceased to
be essential. But till this had become perfectly evident, it would
have been premature to alter the original plan. Though it be

/Et. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 785

true, that some years have elapsed since the excise law was pass-
ed, it is not very long since it has been in full and uninterrupted
operation. Other laws, introducing other branches of internal
revenue, have been subsequently passed from time to time, and
the agency of the same officers has probably been found useful
on their first introduction and execution. Hence it is easily ac-
counted for, that the inspectors were not before discontinued, if
indeed experience has shown that they are not still necessary,
which is itself problematical. Nothing is more easy than to re-
duce the number of agents employed in any business, and yet
for the business to go on with the reduced number. But before
the reduction is applauded, it ought to be ascertained that the
business is as well done as it was before. There is a wide differ-
ence between merely getting along with business and doing it
well and effectually.

These observations sufficiently show, that in the instances
which have been cited there is no evidence of a disposition, in
the preceding administrations, improperly to multiply offices and
officers. Acting under different circumstances, they conducted
as those circumstances dictated, and in all probability in a man-
ner the best adapted to the advancement of the public service.
A change of circumstances may, in some instances, have render-
ed a continuance of some of the agents thus employed unneces-
sary ; and the present Chief Magistrate may even be right in
discontinuing them ; but it is not therefore right to attempt to
derive from this any plea of peculiar merit with the people ; and
it is very far from right to make it a topic of slander on prede
cessors. Perhaps, however, this is too rigorous a construction,
and that nothing more was intended than to set off to the best
advantage, the petty services of petty talents.

If this was the true aim, it is to be regretted that it was not
so managed as to avoid the appearance of a design to depreciate
in the public estimation, those who went before. Had this deli-
cacy been observed, the attempt would have attracted neither
notice nor comment. At most it would have been said,

" Commas and points he sets exactly right,
And 'twere a sin to rob him of his mite."

Lucius Crassus.
g 50

786 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 45.

NO. XI.

February 3, 1802.

The Message observes, "that in our care of the public con-
tributions intrusted to our direction, it would be prudent to
multiply barriers against the dissipation of public money, by
appropriating specific sums to every specific purpose, susceptible
of definition ; by disallowing all applications of money varying
from the appropriation in object, or transcending it in amount,
by reducing the undefined field of contingencies, and thereby
circumscribing discretionary powers over money, and by bringing
back to a single department all accountabilities for money where
the examination may be prompt, efficacious, and uniform." In
this recommendation we can be at no loss to discover additional
proof of a deliberate design in the present Chief Magistrate, to
arraign the former administrations. All these suggestions imply,
on their part, either a neglect of, or a defective attention to, the
objects recommended ; some of them go farther, and insinuate
that there had been a departure from correct plans, which had
before been adopted. The censure intended to be conveyed is as
unjust, as the conceptions which have dictated it are crude and
chimerical. In all matters of this nature, the question turns
upon the proper boundaries of the precautions to be observed ;
how far they ought to go ; where they should stop ; how much
is necessary for security and order ; what qualifications of gene-
ral rules are to be admitted to adapt them to practice, and to at-
tain the ends of the public service. It is certainly possible to do
too much as well as too little ; to embarrass, if not defeat the
end intended, by attempting more than is practicable; or to
overbalance the good, by evils accruing from an excess of regu-
lation. Men of business know this to be the case in the ordinary
affairs of life : how much more must it be so, in the extensive
and complicated concerns of an empire ? To reach and not to
pass the salutary medium is the province of sound judgment.
To miss the point, will ever be the lot of those, who, enveloped
all their lives in the mist of theory, are constantly seeking for

jEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 787

an ideal perfection, which never was and never will be attainable
in reality. It is about this medium, not about general principles
that those in power in our government have differed ; and to ex-
perience, not to the malevolent insinuations of rivals, must be the
appeal, whether the one or the other description of persons have
judged most accurately. Yet discerning men may form no imper-
fect opinion of the merits of the controversy between them, by
even a cursory view of the distinctions on which it has turned.

Nothing, for instance, is more just or proper than the position
that the legislature ought to appropriate specific sums, for specific
purposes ; but nothing is more wild or of more inconvenient
tendency, than to attempt to appropriate "a specific sum for
each specific purpose, susceptible of definition" as the Message
preposterously recommends. Thus (to take a familiar example)
in providing for the transportation of an army ; oats and hay for
the subsistence of horses, are each susceptible of a definition,
and an estimate, and a precise sum may be appropriated for each
separately ; yet in the operations of an army, it will often hap-
pen that more than a sufficient quantity of the one article may
be obtained, and not a sufficient quantity of the other : if the
appropriations be distinct, and the officer who is to make the
provision, be not at liberty to divert the fund from one of these
objects to the other (as the doctrine of the Message implies), the
horses of the army may in such a case starve ; and its move-
ments be arrested — in some situations, even the army itself may
likewise be starved, by a failure of the means of transportation.

If it be said, that the inconvenience here suggested may be
avoided, by making the appropriations for forage generally, and
not for the items which compose it separately — the answer is,
first, that this, by uniting and blending different things, suscepti-
ble each of a precise definition, is an abandonment of the princi-
ple of the Message ; secondly, that it would be only a partial
cure for the mischiefs incident to that rigorous principle. It
might happen that the badness of roads would injure the wagons
of the army more than was anticipated, and so much more, as to
exhaust the specific fund appropriated for their repairs ; it might
also have happened, from various causes, that at an earlier period

788 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45-

of the campaign, the consumption of forage had been less than
was calculated, so that there would be a surplus of the fund des-
tined for this object ; if, in such a case, the public agent could
not transfer that surplus to the repairs of the wagons, the motions
of the army might, in this way, be suspended, and in the event,
famine and ruin produced.

This analysis might be pursued, so as to prove that similar
evils are inseparable from a much more qualified application of
the principle in the Message, and to demonstrate that nothing
more can safely or reasonably be attempted, than to distribute
the public expenses, into a certain number of convenient sub-
divisions or departments ; to require from the proper officers,
estimates of the items, which are to compose each head of ex-
pense; and after examining these with due care, to adapt the
appropriations to the respective aggregates ; applying a specific
sum to the amount of each great subdivision : — the pay of the
army ; military stores ; quartermaster stores, &c, &c. This, with
even more detail than could be well executed, has been uni-
formly done, under the past administrations of the present gov-
ernment from the very beginning of its proceedings. More will,
in the experiment, be found impracticable and injurious ; espe-
cially in seasons and situations when the public service demands
activity and exertion.

In like manner, the former practice of the government has
corresponded with the rule, taken in its true and just sense, of
" disallowing all applications of money, varying from the appro-
priation in object, or transcending it in amount." It is confi-
dently believed, that whoever shall allege or insinuate to the
contrary, may be challenged to point out the instance in which
money has been issued from the Treasury for any purpose which
was not sanctioned by a regular appropriation, or which exceeded
the appropriated amount ; or where there was an expenditure of
money allowed, that was not strictly within the limits of such an
appropriation; except, indeed, upon the impracticable idea of
minutely separating, and distinguishing the items, which form the
aggregate of some general head of expenditure.

It is likewise material to have it well understood that, gene-

MtA5.] THE EXAMINATION. 78i>

rally speaking, the distinction between the appropriations for
different objects can only be strictly observed at the Treasury
itself; which can easily take care that more money shall not go
out for any purpose than is authorized by law ; and can see that
this money is fairly expended by the proper officer, in conformity
with the general spirit of the appropriation prescribed by the
law. But it is in most cases impossible for the officer, charged
with a particular branch of the public service, to separate nicely
in the details of expenditure, the differents funds which may
have been placed in his hands. Thus (still drawing our exam-
ples from the military department, where the danger of misap-
plication is always the greatest) if several sums be placed in the
hands of the Quartermaster-General, for different objects, he must,
of necessity, distribute a large proportion of them among his
principal deputies, and these again among subordinate agents
Unless this distribution be pursued through the remotest ramifi-
cations, down to the moment of final expenditure, it is evident
that it must fail throughout ; and it is no less evident that it can-
not be so far pursued. But to this, the accountantship only
would be an insuperable obstacle ; it would require in every the
most inferior agent, a profound knowledge of accounts, and
would impose, both on principals and subordinates, the duty of
keeping such a multiplicity of them, as, if even practicable, would
exhaust the funds issued for the public service, in mere clerkship.
Another most mischievous consequence would ensue. The exi-
genciesof the public service are often so variable, that a public
agent would frequently find himself full-handed for one purpose,
empty-handed for another, and if forbidden to make a transfer,
not only the service would suffer, but an opportunity, with very
strong temptation, would be given, to traffic with the public
money for private gain ; while the business of the government
would be stagnated by the injudicious and absurd impediments
of an over-driven caution. Happily, it is not very material that
the principle of distinct appropriations for separate objects,
should be carried through all the details. The essential ends of
it are answered, if it be strictly pursued, in the issuing of money
from the Treasury, and if this department be careful that the
principal lines of discrimination are not transgressed.

790 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

The theory of the Message plainly contemplates, that in no
case shall the actual money appertaining to one fund, be expended
for the purpose of another ; though each fund may be sufficient
for its object, and though there may be an appropriation for each
object. This is another excess of theory ; which, with a full
treasury, would often disable the government from fulfilling its
engagements, and from carrying on the public business. To
execute this plan, consistently with the exigencies of national
expenditure, would probably require, in ordinary, a triplication
of the revenues, or a capital necessary for the whole amount of
that expenditure, and would very often lock up from circulation
large sums, which might be of great importance to the activity
of trade and industry. Such are the endless blessings to be ex-
pected from the notable schemes of a philosophic projector I Strict
to a fault, where relaxation is necessary ; lax to a vice, where
strictness is essential !

As to "reducing the undefined field of contingencies, and
circumscribing discretionary powers over money," observations
similar to those which have been already made, occur. The
term reducing, implies, that the thing must exist in a degree ; and
indeed it is manifest, that all the minute casualties of expenditure,
especially in the naval and military departments, cannot be fore-
seen and defined. The question then must be, have not the
limits been sufficiently narrow for the situation of the govern-
ment, in the scenes through which it has passed ; comprehending
for a great part of the time Indian wars and foreign hostilities ?
Certainly, if viewed on a proportionable scale, the extent appears
to have been as moderate as could have been desired; and no
blame can justly attach to the administration, on this account.

As to " bringing back to a single department all accounta-
bilities for money," there never has been a deviation from that
system. The department of the Treasury has uniformly preserv-
ed a vigilant superintendence over all accountabilities for public
money. A particular accountant, indeed, has been appointed in
the War and Navy departments, but he has been subordinate to
the Treasury department, which has prescribed regulations for
his conduct, and has constantly revised his proceedings. It is

Mn. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 791

true, that by his connection with the particular department for
which he is accountant, there are cases in which he is to be
guided by the directions of the head of that department ; but
though these directions, if not plainly contrary to the rules pre-
scribed by the Treasury, would exempt him from responsibility,
the directions themselves pass under the review of the Treasury,
as a check upon the head of the department to which he is at-
tached ; and in case of abuse, they would serve to establish a
responsibility of the principal. To say that this interferes with
a prompt examination of accounts, is to affirm that a division
of labor is injurious to dispatch ; a position contrary to all ex-
perience. The fact, without doubt, is, that it essentially contrib-
utes to dispatch ; and that whatever new modification may be
adopted, either the accounts of the other departments will never
keep pace with the current of business in times of activity, or
that modification must adhere to the principle of employing dis-
tinct organs.

If it be the design to exclude, in every case, the intervention
of the head of the particular department, some or all of these
evils will follow : The service of that department will suffer by
unduly restricting its head, in cases in which he must be the
most competent judge; and by obliging him, in order to avoid
eventual difficulties, to resort, in the first instance, to another de-
partment, less alive than himself to the exigencies of his own,
for a cautious and slow, perhaps a reluctant acquiescence in ar-
rangements which require promptness ; if in the spirit of con-
fidence and accommodation, the officers of the Treasury yield a
ready compliance with the wishes of the head of such depart-
meut, they may inadvertently co-operate in measures which they
would have disapproved and corrected on a deliberate and im-
partial revision. If this spirit be not shown, not only the im-
mediate service of the department may be improperly impeded,
but sensations unfriendly to the due harmony of the different
members of the administration may be engendered. On one
side of the dilemma stands collusion, on the other discord.

The existing plan steers a middle and a prudent course ;
neither fettering too much the heads of the other departments

792 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [^Et. 45.

nor relinquishing too far the requisite control of the Treasury.
Its opposite supposes all trust may be placed in one department
— none in the others. The extravagant jealousy of the over-
bearing influence of the Treasury department, which was so con-
spicuous in the times of the two former secretaries, has of a sud-
den given way to unlimited confidence ! The intention seems
to be to surround the brow of their immaculate successor with
the collected rays of legislative and executive favor. But vain
will be the attempt to add lustre to the dim luminary of a be-
nighted administration !

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XII.

February 23, 1302.
From the manner in which the subject was treated in the
fifth and sixth numbers of the Examination, it has been doubted,,
whether the writer did or did not entertain a decided opinion
as to the power of Congress to abolish the offices and compensa-
tions of judges, once instituted and appointed, pursuant to a law
of the United States. In a matter of such high constitutional
moment, it is a sacred duty to be explicit. The progress of a
bill lately brought into the Senate for repealing the law of the
last session, entitled, " an Act to provide for the more conveni-
ent organization of the courts of the United States," with the
avowed design of superseding the judges who were appointed
under it, has rendered the question far more serious than it was
while it rested merely on the obscure suggestion in the Presiden-
tial Message. Till the experiment had proved the fact, it was
hardly to have been imagined, that a majority of either House of
Congress, whether from design or error, would have lent its
sanction to a glaring violation of our national compact, in that
article which, of all others, is the most essential to the efficiency
and stability of the government ; to the security of property ;
to the safety and liberty of person. This portentous and fright-

At. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 793

ful phenomenon has, nevertheless, appeared. It frowns with
malignant and deadly aspect upon our Constitution. Probably
before these remarks shall be read, that Constitution will be no
more ! It will be numbered among the numerous victims of
Democratic frenzy ; and will have given another and an awful
lesson to mankind — the prelude perhaps of calamities to this
country, at the contemplation of which imagination shudders !

With such prospect before us, nothing ought to be left un-
essayecl, to open the eyes of thinking men to the destructive
projects of those mountebank politicians, who have been too
successful in perverting public opinion, and in cheating the peo-
ple out of their confidence ; who are advancing with rapid
strides in the work of disorganization — the sure forerunner of
tyranny ; and who, if they are not arrested in their mad career,
will, ere long, precipitate our nation into all the horrors of an-
archy.

It would be vanity to expect to throw much additional light
upon a subject, which has already exhausted the logic and elo-
quence of some of the ablest men of our country ; yet it often
happens, that the same arguments placed in a new attitude, and
accompanied with illustrations, which may have escaped the
ardor of a first research, serve both to fortify and to extend
conviction. In the hope that this may be the case, the discus-
sion shall be pursued with as much perspicuity and brevity, as
can be attained.

The words of the Constitution are, " The judges both of the
supreme and inferior courts shall hold their offices during good
behavior, and shall at stated times receive for their services a
compensation which shall not be diminished during their continu-
ance in office.'11

Taking the literal import of the terms as the criterion of
their true meaning, it is clear, that the tenure or duration of the
office is limited by no other condition than the good behavior
of the incumbent. The words are imperative, simple and un-
qualified: "The judges shall hold their offices during good behav-
ior.'1'1 Independent therefore of any artificial reasoning to vary
the natural and obvious sense of the words, the provision must

794 HAMILTON'S WORKS.

[JEt. 45.

be understood to vest in the judge a right to the office, indefea-
sible but by his own misconduct.

It is, consequently, the duty of those who deny this right, to
show, either that there are certain presumptions of intention,
deducible from other parts of the constitutional instrument, or
certain general principles of constitutional law or policy, which
ought to control the literal and substitute a different meaning.

As to presumptions of intention, different from the import of
the terms, there is not a syllable in the instrument from which
they can be inferred ; on the contrary, the latter member of the
clause cited affords a very strong presumption the other way.

From the injunction, that the compensation of the judges
shall not be diminished, it is manifest that the Constitution intends
to guard the independence of those officers against the legislative
department ; because, to this department alone would have be-
longed the power of diminishing their compensations.

When the constitution is thus careful to tie up the legislature
from taking away part of the compensation, is it possible to sup-
pose that it can mean to leave that body at full liberty to take away
the whole ? The affirmative imputes to the Constitution the man-
ifest absurdity of holding to the legislature this language : " You
shall not weaken the independence of the judicial character, by
exercising the power of lessening his emolument, but you may
destroy it altogether, by exercising the greater power of annihi-
lating the recompense with the office." No mortal can be so
blind as not to see that, by such a construction, the restraint in-
tended to be laid upon the legislature by the injunction not to
lessen the compensation, becomes absolutely nugatory.

In vain is a justification sought in that part of the article
which provides that "the judicial power of the United States
shall be vested in one supreme court, and in such inferior courts
as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish."
The position that a discretionary power to institute inferior courts
includes virtually a power to abolish them, if true, is nothing to
the purpose. The abolition of a court does not necessarily imply
that of its judges. In contemplation of law, the court and the
judge are distinct things. The court may have a legal existence,

jE-r.45.] the examination. ?95

though there may be no judge to exercise its powers. This may
be the case, either at the original creation of a court, previous to
the appointment of a judge, or subsequently, by his death, resig-
nation, or removal. In the last case, it could not be pretended
that the court had become extinct by the event. In like manner,
the office of the judge may subsist, though the court in which he
is to officiate may be suspended or destroyed. The duties of a
judge, as the office is denned in our jurisprudence, are twofold-
judicial and ministerial. The latter may be performed out of
court, and often without reference to it. As conservator of the
peace, which every judge is, ex officio, many things are done, not
connected with a judicial controversy, or to speak technically,
with a lis pendens. This serves to illustrate the idea, that the office
is something different from the court: which is the place or situ-
ation for its principal action, yet not altogether essential to its
activity. Besides, a judge is not the less a judge when out of
court than when in court. The law does not suppose him to be
always in court, yet it does suppose him to be always in office ;
in vacation as well as in term. He has also a property or inter-
est in his office, which entitles him to civil actions and recom-
pense in damages, for injuries that affect him in relation to his
office ; but he cannot be said to have a property or interest in
the court of which he is a member. All these considerations
confirm the hypothesis, that the court and the judge are distinct
legal entities, and therefore may exist, the one independently of

the other.

If it be replied, that the office is an incident to the court, and
that the abolition of the principal includes that of the incidents—
the answer to this is, that the argument may be well founded as
to all subsequent appointments ; but not as to those previously
made. Though there be no office to be filled in future, it will
not follow that one already vested in an individual, by a regular
appointment and commission, is thereby vacated and divested.
Whether this shall or shall not happen, must depend on what
the Constitution or the law has declared with regard to the
tenure of the office. Having pronounced that this shall be during
good behavior, it will preserve the office, to give effect to that

796 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. &.

tenure for the benefit of the possessor. To be consistent with
itself, it will require and prescribe such a modification and con-
struction of its own acts, as will reconcile its power over the
future, with the rights which have been conferred as to the past
Let it not be said, that an office is a mere trust for public
benefit, and excludes the idea of a property or a vested interest
in the individual. The first part of the proposition is true-the
last false. Every office combines the two ingredients of an inter-
est in the possessor, and a trust for the public. Hence it is that
the law allows the officer redress, by a civil action, for an iniurv
m relation to his office, which presupposes property or interest.
I his interest may be defeasible at the pleasure of the government
or it may have a fixed duration, according to the constitution of
the office. The idea of a vested interest holden even by a per-
manent tenure, so far from being incompatible with the principle
that the primary and essential end of every office is the public
good, may be conducive to that very end, by promoting a dili-
gent, faithful, energetic, and independent execution of the office
But admitting, as seems to have been admitted by the speak-
ers on both sides of the question, that the judge must fall with
the court, then the only consequence will be, that Confess can-
not abolish a court once established. There is no rule°of inter-
pretation better settled, than that different provisions in the same
instrument, on the same subject, ought to be so construed, as if
possible, to comport with each other, and give a reasonable effect
to all.

The provision that "The judiciary power shall be vested in
one supreme court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress
may from time to time ordain and establish," is immediately fol-
lowed by this other provision, "The judges both of the supreme
and inferior courts shall hold their offices during good beha-

vior

The proposition, that a power to do, includes, virtually a
power to undo, as applied to a legislative body, is generally but
not universally true. All vested rights form an exception to the
rule. In strict theory, there is no lawful or moral power to divest
by a subsequent statute, a right vested in an individual, by a

Mr. 45.]

THE EXAMINATION. 797

prior. And accordingly it is familiar to persons conversant with
legal studies, that the repeal of a law does not always work the
revocation or divestiture of such rights.

If it be replied, that though a legislature might act immorally
and wickedly, in abrogating a vested right, yet the legal validity
of its act for such a purpose could not be disputed ; it may be
answered, that this odious position, in any application of it, is
liable to question in every limited Constitution ; (that is, in every
Constitution, which, in its theory, does not suppose the whole
power of the nation to be lodged in the legislative body ;*)—
and that it is certainly false, in its application to a legislature, the
authorities of which are defined by a positive written Constitution,
as to every thing which is contrary to the actual provisions of
that Constitution. To deny this, is to affirm that the delegated is
paramount to the constituent power. It is in fact to affirm there
are no constitutional limits to the legislative authority.

The inquiry then must be, whether the power to abolish infe-
rior courts, if implied in that of creating them, is not abridged
by the clause which regulates the tenure of judicial office.

The first thing which occurs in this investigation, is, that the
power to abolish is, at most, an implied or incidental power, and
as such, will the more readily yield to any express provision with
which it may be inconsistent.

The circumstance of giving to Congress a discretionary power
to establish inferior courts, instead of establishing them specifically
in the Constitution, has, with great reason, been ascribed to the
impracticability of ascertaining beforehand the number and
variety of courts, which the development of our national affairs
might indicate to be proper ; especially in relation to the progress
of new settlements, and the creation of new States. This render-
ed a discretionary power to institute courts indispensable ; but it
did not alike render indispensable a power to abolish those which
were once instituted. It was conceivable that with intelligence,
caution, and care, a plan might be pursued in the institution of
courts, which would render abolitions unnecessary. Indeed, it is

* As in the parliament of Great Britain.

798 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

not presumable with regard to establishments of such solemnity
and importance, making part of the organization of a principal
dapartment of the government, that a fluctuation of plans was
anticipated. It is therefore not essential to suppose, that the
power to destroy was intended to be included in the power to
create. Thus the words " to ordain and establish," may be
satisfied by attributing to them only the latter effect. — Conse-
quently when the grant of the power to institute courts, is imme-
diately succeeded by the declaration that the judges of those
courts shall hold their offices during good behavior ; if the exer-
cise of the power to abolish the courts, cannot be reconciled with
the actual holding or enjoyment of the office, according to the
prescribed tenure, it will follow that the power to abolish is
interdicted. The implied or hypothetical power, to destroy the
office, must give way to the express and positive right of holding
it during good behavior. This is agreeable to the soundest rules
of construction ; the contrary is in subversion of them.

Equally in vain is a justification of the construction, adopted
by the advocates of the repeal, attempted to be derived from a
distinction between the supreme and inferior courts. The argu-
ment, that as the former is established by the Constitution, it
cannot be annulled by a legislative act, though the latter which
must owe their existence to such an act may by the same author-
ity be extinguished, can afford no greater stability to the office
of a judge of the supreme court than to that of a judge of an inferior
court. The Constitution does indeed establish the supreme
court ; but it is altogether silent as to the number of judges.
This is as fully left to legislative discretion as the institution of
inferior courts ; and the rule that a power to undo is implied in
the power to do, is therefore no less applicable to the reduction
of the number of the judges of the supreme court, than to the
abolition of the inferior courts. If the former are not protect-
ed by the clause, which fixes the tenure of office, they are no
less at the mercy of the legislature than the latter. And if that
clause does protect them, its protection must be equally effectual
for the judges of the inferior courts. Its efficacy, in either case
must be founded on the principle that it operates as a restraint

jEt. 45.] the examination. T99

upon the legislative discretion ; and if so, there is the like restraint
in both cases, because the very same words in the very same
sentence, define conjunctly the tenure of office of the two classes
of judges. No sophistry can elude this conclusion. •

It is therefore plain to a demonstration, that the doctrine which
affirms the right of Congress to abolish the judges of the inferior
courts, is absolutely fatal to the independence of the judicairy
department. The observation that so gross an abuse of power,
as would be implied in the abolition of the judges of the supreme
court, ought not to be supposed, can afford no consolation against
the extreme danger of the doctrine. The terrible examples before
us, forbid our placing the least confidence in that delusive obser-
vation. Experience, sad experience, warns us to dread every
extremity — to be prepared for the worst catastrophe that can
happen.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XIII.

February 27, 1802.

The advocates of the power of Congress to abolish the judges,
endeavor to deduce a presumption of intention favorable to their
doctrine, from this argument. The provision concerning the
tenure of office (say they) ought to be viewed as a restraint upon
the executive department, because, to this department belongs the
power of removal ; in like manner as the provision concerning
the diminution of compensation, ought to be regarded as a re-
straint upon the legislative department, because, to this department
belongs the power of regulating compensations. The different
members of the clause ought to be taken distributive!?, in confor-
mity with the distribution of power to the respective depart-
ments.

This is certainly the most specious of the arguments which
have been used on that side. It has received several pertinent
and forcible answers. But it is believed to be susceptible of one

800 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

still more direct and satisfactory ; which is not recollected to have
been yet given.

If, in the theory of the Constitution, there was but one way
of c/Qkating the tenure of office, and that exclusively appertaining
to the executive authority, it would be a natural and correct
inference that this authority was solely contemplated, in a con-
stitutional provision upon the subject. But the fact is clearly
otherwise. There are two modes known to the Constitution, in
which the tenure of office may be affected — one,t he abolition of
the office ; the other, the removal of the officer. The first is a
legislative act, and operates by removing the office from the per-
son— the last is an executive act, and operates by removing the
person from the office. Both equally cause the tenure, enjoyment,
or holding of the office to cease.

This being the case, the inference which has been drawn,
fails. There is no ground for the presumption, that the Con-
stitution, in establishing the tenure of an office, had an exclusive
eye to one only of the two modes in which it might be effected.
The more rational supposition is, that it intended to reach and
exclude both ; because, this alone can fulfil the purpose which it
appears to have in view : and it ought neither to be understood
to aim at less than its language imports, nor to employ inade-
quate means for accomplishing the end which it professes. Or,
the better to elucidate the idea, by placing it in another form,
it may be said, that, since in the nature of things the legislative,
equally with the executive organ, may by different modes of
action affect the tenure of office ; when the Constitution under-
takes to prescribe what that tenure shall be, it ought to be pre-
sumed to intend to guard that which shall have been prescribed,
against the interference of either department.

In an instrument, abounding with examples of restrictions on
the legislative discretion, there is no difficulty in supposing that
one was intended, in every case in which it may be fairly
inferred, either from the words used, or from the object to be
effected.

While the reason which has been stated, refers the provision
respecting the tenure of judicial officers as well to the execu-

Mr. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 801

tive as to the Legislative Department, were it necessary to ex-
amine to which, if to either of them, it ought to be deemed most
appropriate, there could be no difficulty in selecting the latter,
rather than the former. The tenure of an office is one of its
essential qualities. A provision, therefore, which is destined to
prescribe or define this quality, may be supposed to have a more
peculiar reference to that Department, which is empowered to
constitute the office ; either as directory to it, in the exercise of
its power, or as fixing what otherwise would be left to its dis-
cretion.

It is constantly to be recollected, that the terms of the pro-
vision do not look particularly to either Department. They are
general, "the judges shall hold their offices during good be-
havior." 'Tis not from the terms, therefore, that an exclusive
applicability to the executive organ can be inferred. On the
contrary, they must be narrowed, to give them only this effect.

It is different as to the provision concerning compensations.
Though equally general in the terms, this can have no relation
but to the Legislative Department ; because, as before observed,
that department alone would have had power to diminish the
compensations. But this reason for confining that provision to
one department, namely, the power of affecting the compensa-
tions, so far from dictating a similar appropriation of the other
provision, looks a different way, and requires by analogy that
the latter should be applied to both the departments, each hav-
ing a power of affecting the tenure of office, in a way peculiar
to itself. Nor can it be too often repeated, because it is a con-
sideration of great force, that the design, so conspicuous in the
former of these two provisions, to secure the independence of
the judges against legislative influence, is a powerful reason
for understanding the latter in a sense calculated to advance the
same important end, rather than in one which must entirely
frustrate it.

A rule of constitutional law opposed to our construction, is

attempted to be derived, from the maxim, that the power of

legislation is always equal ; and that a preceding can never bind

or control a succeeding legislature, by its acts, which therefore

G 51

802 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

must always be liable to repeal at the discretion of the succes-
sor.

The misapplication, or too extensive application of general
maxims or propositions, true in their genuine sense, is one of
the most common and fruitful sources of false reasoning. This
is strongly exemplified in the present instance. The maxim re-
lied upon, can mean nothing more, than, that as to all those mat-
ters which a preceding legislature was free to establish and re-
voke, a succeeding legislature will be equally free. The latter
may do what the former could have done, or it may undo what
the former could have undone. But unless it can be maintained,
that the power of ordinary legislation is in itself illimitable, in-
controllable, incapable of being bound either by its own acts,
or by the injunctions or prohibitions of a Constitution, it will
follow, that the body invested with that power, may bind itself,
and may bind its successor ; so that neither itself nor its succes-
sor can, of right, revoke acts which may have been once done.
To say that a legislature may bind itself, but not its successor,
is to affirm that the latter has not merely an equal, but a greater
power than the former, else it could not do what the former was
unable to do. Equality of power only will not suffice for the
argument. On the other hand, to affirm that a legislature can-
not bind itself, is to assert, that there can be no valid pledge of
the public faith, that no right can be vested in an individual
or collection of individuals, whether of property, or of any
other description, which may not be resumed at pleasure.

Without doubt, a legislature binds itself, by all those acts
which engage the public faith ; which confer on individuals per-
manent rights, either gratuitously or for valuable consideration ;
and in all these instances a succeeding one is not less bound. As
to a right which may have been conferred by an express pro-
vision of the Constitution defining the condition of the enjoy-
ment ; or as to an institution or matter in its nature permanent,
which the Constitution may have confided to an act of the legis-
lature ; its authority terminates with the act that vests the right
or makes the establishment. A case of the first sort is exem-
plified in the office of a judge ; of the last, in the creation of a new

Mt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 803

state, which has been very pertinently mentioned as a decisive
instance of power in a legislature, to do a thing which beiuo-
done is irrevocable.

But whatever may be the latitude we assign to the power of
a legislature over the acts of a predecessor, it is nothing to the
purpose, so long as it shall be admitted that the Constitution
may bind and control the legislature. With this admission,
the simple inquiry must always be — has or has not the Constitu-
tion, in the particular instance, bound the legislature? And
the solution must be sought in the language, nature, and end of
the provision. If these warrant the conclusion, that the legis-
lature was intended to be bound, it is perfect nonsense to reply,
that this cannot be so because a legislature cannot bind itself by
its own acts ; or because the power of one legislature is equal to
that of another. What signifies this proposition, if the Constitu-
tion has power to bind the legislature, and has in fact bound it
in a given case ? Can a general rule disprove the fact of an ex-
ception which it is admitted may exist ? If so, the argument
is always ready, and equally valid to disprove any limitation of
the legislative discretion.

Compelled, as they must be, to desist from the use of the
argument in the extensive sense in which it has been employed, if
its inventors should content themselves with saying, that at least,
the principle adduced by them ought to have so much of force,
as to make the exception to it depend on an express provision —
it may be answered, that in the case under consideration, there
is an express provision. No language can be more precise or
peremptory than this, " The judges, both of the Supreme and
Inferior Courts, shall hold their offices during good behavior."
If this be not an express provision, it is impossible to devise
one. But the position, that an express provision is necessary
to form an exception, is itself unfounded. Wherever it is clear,
whether by a circumstance expressed, or by one so implied as
to leave no reasonable doubt, that a limitation of the authority
of the legislature was designed by the Constitution, the inten-
tion ought to prevail.

A very strong confirmation of the true intent of the provision

S04 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

respecting the tenure of Judicial office, results from an argument
by analogy. In each of the articles which establishes any branch
of the government, the duration of office is a prominent feature.
Two years for the House of Eepresentatives, six for the Senate,
four for the President and Vice-President, are the respective
terms of duration ; and for the Judges, the term of good beha-
vior is allotted. It is presumable, that each was established in
the same spirit, as a point material in the organization of the
government and of a nature to be properly fundamental. It will
not be pretended that the duration of office prescribed as to any
other department, is within the reach of legislative discretion.
And why shall that of Judicial officers form an exception ? Why
shall the Constitution be supposed less tenacious of securing to
this organ of the sovereign power a fixed duration than to any
other ? If there be any thing which ought to be supposed to be
peculiarly excepted out of the power of the ordinary Legislature,
it is emphatically the organization of the several constituent de-
partments of the government ; which in our system are the Le-
gislative, Executive, and Judiciary. Eeasons of the most cogent
nature recommend, that the stability and independence of the
last of these three branches, should be guarded with particular
circumspection and care.

Lucius Ceassus.

NO. XIV.

March 2d, 1802.
In the course of the debate in the Senate, much verbal criti-
cism has been indulged : many important inferences have been
attempted to be drawn from distinctions between the words shall
and may. This species of discussion will not be imitated, because
it is seldom very instructive or satisfactory. These terms, in
particular cases, are frequently synonymous, and are imperative
or permissive, directing or enabling, according to the relations in
which they stand to other words. It is, however, certain, that

Mi. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 805

the arguments even from this source, greatly preponderate against
the right of Congress to abolish the Judges.

But there has been one argument, rather of a verbal nature,
upon which some stress has been laid, which shall be analyzed ;
principally to furnish a specimen of the wretched expedients to
which the supporters of the repeal are driven. It is this, " The
tenure of an office is not synonymous with its existence. Though
Congress may not annul the tenure of a Judicial office, while the
office itself continues ; yet it does not follow that they may not
destroy its existence."

The constituent parts of an office are its authorities, duties, and
duration. These may be denominated the elements of which it
is composed. Together they form its essence or existence* It is
impossible to separate even in idea the duration from the exist-
ence : the office must cease to exist when it ceases to have dura-
tion. Hence let it be observed, that the word tenure is not used
in the Constitution, and that in the debate it has been the substi-
tute for duration. The words, " The judges shall hold their of-
fices during good behavior," are equivalent to these other words ;
The offices of the judges shall endure or last so long as they be-
have well.

The conclusions from these principles are, that existence is a
whole, which includes tenure and duration as a part ; that it is
impossible to annul the existence of an office without destroying
its tenure ; and consequently that a prohibition to destroy the
tenure is virtually and substantially a prohibition to abolish the
office. How contemptible then the sophism that Congress may
not destroy the tenure, but may annihilate the office !

It has now been seen, that this power of annihilation is not
reconcilable with the language of the constitutional instrument,
and that no rule of constitutional law, which has been relied up-
on, will afford it support. Can it be better defended by any
principle of constitutional policy ?

To establish the affirmative of this question, it has been ar-

* The remuneration or recompense is not added, because it is most properly
an accessory.

806 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

gued, that if the judges hold their offices by a title absolutely
independent of the legislative will, the judicial department be-
comes a colossal and overbearing power, capable of degenerating
into a permanent tyranny ; at liberty, if audacious and corrupt
enough, to render the authority of the legislature nugatory, by
expounding away the laws, and to assume a despotic control
over the rights of person and property.

To this argument (which supposes the case of a palpable abuse
of power) a plain and conclusive answer is, that the Constitution
has provided a complete safeguard in the authority of the House
of Representatives to impeach ; of the Senate to condemn. The
judges are in this way amenable to public justice for misconduct ;
and upon conviction, removable from office. In the hands of
the legislature itself, is placed the weapon by which they may
be put down and the other branches of the government protect-
ed. The pretended danger, therefore, is evidently imaginary —
the security perfect.

Eeverse the medal. Concede to the legislature a legal dis-
cretion to abolish the judges; where is the defence? where
the security for the judicial department? There is absolutely
none. This most valuable member of the government, when
rightly constituted the surest guardian of person and property,
of which stability is a prime characteristic ; losing at once its
most essential attributes, and doomed to fluctuate with the vari-
able tide of faction, degenerates into a disgusting mirror of all
the various, malignant, and turbulent humors of party spirit.

Let us not be deceived. The real danger is on the side of
that foul and fatal doctrine, which emboldens its votaries, with
daring front and unhallowed step, to enter the holy temple of
justice, and pluck from their seats the venerable personages,
who, under the solemn sanction of the Constitution, are commis-
sioned to officiate there — to guard that sacred compact with jea-
lous vigilance : to dispense the laws with a steady and impartial
hand — unmoved by the storms of faction, unawed by its powers,
unseduced by its favors — shielding right and innocence from
every attack — resisting and repressing violence from every quar-
ter. 'Tis from the triumph of that execrable doctrine, that we

Mt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 807

may have to date the downfall of our government, and with it,
of the whole fabric of republican liberty. Who will have the
folly to deny that the definition of despotism is the concentration
of all the powers of government in one person or in one body?
Who is so blind as not to see, that the right of the legislature to
abolish the judges at pleasure, destroys the independence of the
judicial department, and swallows it up in the impetuous vortex
of legislative influence? Who is so weak as to hope that the ex-
ecutive, deprived of so powerful an auxiliary, will long survive ?
What dispassionate man can withstand the conviction that the
boundaries between the departments will be thenceforth nomi-
nal; and that there will be no longer more than one active and
efficient department?

It is a fundamental maxim of free government, that the three
great departments of power, legislative, executive, and judiciary,
shall be essentially distinct and independent, the one of the
other. This principle, very influential in most of our State con-
stitutions, has been particularly attended to in the Constitution
of the United States ; which, in order to give effect to it, has
adopted a precaution peculiar to itself, in the provisions that for-
bid the legislature to vary in any way the compensation of the
President, to diminish that of a, judge.

It is a principle equally sound, that though in a government
like that of Great Britain, having an hereditary chief with vast
prerogatives, the danger to liberty, by the predominance of one
department over the other, is on the side of the executive ; yet
in popular forms of government, this danger is chiefly to be ap-
prehended from the legislative branch.

The power of legislation is, in its own nature, the most compre-
hensive and potent of the three great subdivisions of sovereignty.
It is the will of the government ; it prescribes universally the
rule of action, and the sanctions which are to enforce it. It cre-
ates and regulates the public force, and it commands the public
purse. If deposited in an elective representative of the people, it
has, in most cases, the body of the nation for its auxiliary, and
generally acts with all the momentum of popular favor. In
every such government it is consequently an organ of immense

808 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

strength. But when there is an hereditary chief magistrate,
clothed with dazzling prerogatives and a great patronage, there
is a powerful counterpoise, which, in most cases, is sufficient to
preserve the equilibrium of the government ; in some cases, to
incline the scale too much to its own side.

In governments wholly popular or representative, there is
no adequate counterpoise. Confidence in the most numerous,
or legislative department, and jealousy of the executive chief,
form the genius of every such government. That jealousy, op-
erating in the constitution of the executive, causes this organ to
be intrinsically feeble ; and, withholding in the course of admin-
istration accessory means of force and influence, is for the most
part vigilant to continue it in a state of impotence. The result
is that the legislative body, in this species of government, pos-
sesses additional resources of power and weight ; while the exe-
cutive is rendered much too weak for competition ; almost too
weak for self-defence.

A third principle, not less well founded than the other two,
is that the judiciary department is naturally the weakest of the
three. The sources of strength to the legislative branches have
been briefly delineated. The Executive, by means of its several
active powers, of the dispensation of honors and emoluments,
and of the direction of the public force, is evidently the second in
strength. The judiciary, on the other hand, can ordain nothing.
It commands neither the purse nor the sword. It has scarcely
any patronage. Its functions are not active but deliberative. Its
main province is to declare the meaning of the laws ; and in ex-
traordinary cases, it must even look up to the Executive aid
for the execution of its decisions. Its chief strength is in the
veneration which it is able to inspire by the wisdom and recti-
tude of its judgments.

This character of the judiciary clearly indicates that it is not
only the weakest of the three departments of power, but, also, as
it regards the security and preservation of civil liberty, by far
the safest. In a conflict with the other departments, it will be
happy if it can defend itself — to annoy them is beyond its power.
In vain would it singly attempt enterprises against the rights of

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 809

the citizen. The other departments could quickly arrest its arm,
and punish its temerity. It can only then become an effectual
instrument of oppression, when it is combined with one of the
more active and powerful organs ; and against a combination of
this sort, the true and best guard is a complete independence of
each and both of them. Its dependence on either will imply and
involve a subserviency to the views of the department on which
it shall depend. Its independence of both will render it a pow-
ful check upon the others, and a precious shield to the rights of
persons and property. Safety, liberty, are therefore inseparably
connected with the real and substantial independence of the
courts and judges.

It is plainly to be inferred from the instrument itself, that
these were governing principles in the formation of our Consti-
tution : that they were in fact so, will hereafter be proved by
the cotemporary exposition of persons who, having been them-
selves members of the body that framed it, must be supposed
to have understood the views with which it was framed.
Those principles suggest the highest motives of constitutional
policy against that construction which places the existence
of the judges at the mercy of the legislature. They instruct
us, that to prevent a concentration of powers, the essence of despot-
ism, it is essential, that the departments among which they shall
be distributed, should be effectually independent of each other;
and that, it being impossible to reconcile this independence with
a right in any one or two of them to annihilate at discretion the
organs of the other, it is contrary to all just reasoning to imply
or infer such a right. So far from its being correct, that an
express interdiction is requisite to deprive the legislature of
the power to abolish the judges, the very reverse is the true
position. It would require a more express provision susceptible
of no other interpretation, to confer on that branch of the gov-
ernment an authority, so dangerous to the others, in opposition
to the strong presumptions, which arise from the care taken in
the Constitution, in conformity with the fundamental maxims of
free governments, to establish and preserve the reciprocal and
complete independence of the respective branches, first by a sep-
HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

ni-

arate organization of the departments ; next by a precise defi_.
tion of the powers of each ; lastly by precautions to secure to
each a permanent support. -.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XV.

March, 1802.
It is generally understood that the Essays under the title of
the Federalist, which were published at New-York, while the
plan of our present federal Constitution was under the consider-
ation of the people, were principally written by two persons*
who had been members of the convention which devised that
plan, and whose names are subscribed to the instrument con-
taining it. In these essaysf the principles advanced in the last
number of this examination are particularly stated and strongly
relied upon, in defence of the proposed Constitution ; from which
it is a natural inference that they had influenced the views
with which the plan was digested. The full force of this obser-
vation will be best perceived by a recurrence to the work itself;
but it will appear clearly enough from the following detached
passages.

" One of the principal objections inculcated by the more re-
spectable adversaries to the Constitution, is its supposed viola-
tion of the political maxim, that the legislative, executive, and
judiciary departments ought to be separate and distinct. No po-
litical truth is certainly of greater intrinsic value, or is stamped
with the authority of more enlightened patrons of 'liberty,
than that on which the objection is founded. The accumulation
of all power, legislative, executive, and judiciary, in the same
hands, whether of one, a few, or many ; whether hereditary,
self-appointed or elective, may justly be pronounced the very de-

* James Madison, now Secretary of State. Alexander Hamilton, formerly Se-
cretary of the Treasury.

t Particularly Nos. xlvii. to li. inclusive, and Nos. lxxviii. to lxxxii. inclusive.

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 811

finition of tyranny* Neither of the three departments ought to
possess directly or indirectly an overriding influence over the others
in the administration of thdl respective powers." " But the
most difficult task is to provide some practical security for each,
against the invasion of the others. Experience assures us that the
efficacy of 'parchment harriers has been greatly overrated, and
that some more adequate defence is indispensably necessary for the
more feeble against the more powerful members of the govern-
ment. The legislative department is every where extending the
sphere of its activity, and drawing all power into its impetuous
vortex." " In a representative republic, where the executive
magistracy is carefully limited, both in the extent and the dura-
tion of its power ; and where the legislative power is exercised
by an assembly, which is inspired by a supposed influence over
the people with an intrepid confidence in its own strength ;
which is sufficiently numerous to feel all the passions which ac-
tuate a multitude ; yet not so numerous as to be incapable of
pursuing the objects of its passions by means which reason pre-
scribes ; it is against the enterprising ambition of this department,
that the people ought to indulge cdl their jealousy and exhaust all their
precaution.'1'1 Again, "The tendency of republican governments
is to an aggrandizement of the legislative at the expense of the other
departments"

These passages recognize, as a fundamental maxim of free
government, that the three departments of power ought to be
separate and distinct- consequently that neither of them ought
to be able to exercise, either directly or indirectly, an overruling
influence over any other. They also recognize as a truth, indi-
cated by the nature of the system and verified by experience,
that in a representative republic, the legislative department is
the " Aaron's rod " most likely to swallow up the rest, and there-
fore to be guarded against with particular care and caution : and
they inculcate that parchment barriers (or the formal provisions
of a Constitution designating the respective boundaries of authori-
ty), having been found ineffectual for protecting the more feeble,

* No. xlvii.

812 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

against the more powerful members of the government, some
more adequate defence, some practical security, is necessary.
What this was intended to be, %rill appear from subsequent
passages.

" To what expedient shall we finally resort for maintaining in
practice the necessary partition of power among the several
departments as laid down in the Constitution ?" " As all exterior
provisions are found to be inadequate, the defect must be supplied
by so contriving the interior structure of the government, as that
its several constituent departments may, by their mutual re-
lations, be the means of keeping each other in their proper
places."*

These passages intimate the "practical security" which ought
to be adopted for the preservation of the weaker against the
stronger members of the government. It is so to be contrived in
its interior structure that the constituent organs may be able to
keep each other in their proper places ; an idea essentially incom-
patible with that of making the existence of one dependent on
the will of another. It will be seen afterwards, how this struc-
ture is to be so contrived.

" In order to lay a foundation for that separate and distinct
exercise of the different powers of government, which, to a certain
extent, is admitted on all hands to be essential to the preservation
of liberty, it is evident that each department should have a will
of its own ; and consequently should be so constituted, that the
members of each should have as little agency as possible in the
appointment of the members of the others. This principle rig-
orously adhered to, would require that all the appointments for
the several departments should be drawn from the same fountain
of authority, the people." But in the constitution of the judiciary
department, it might be inexpedient to insist rigorously on the
principle ; first, because peculiar qualifications being essential in
the members, the primary consideration ought to be to select that
mode of choice, which best secures these qualifications ; secondly,
because the permanent tenure by which the appointments are held

* No. li.

jEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 813

in that department, must soon destroy all sense of dependence on
the authority conferring them.

" It is equally evident, that the members of each department
should be as little dependent as possible on those of the others,
for the emoluments annexed to their offices. Were the Executive
Magistrate or the judges not independent of the legislature in this
particular, their independence in every other would be merely nomi-
nal." " The great security against a concentration of the several
powers in the same department, consists in giving to those who
administer each department the necessary constitutional means and
personal motives to resist encroachments of the others." "But it
is not possible to give to each department an equal power of self-
defence. In republican governments the legislative authority
necessarily predominates."

The means held out as proper to be employed, for enabling
the several departments to keep each other in their proper places,
are : 1. To give to each such an organization as will render them
essentially independent of one another. 2. To secure to each a
support which shall not be at the discretionary disposal of any
other. 8. To establish between them such mutual relations of
authority, as will make one a check upon another, and enable them
reciprocally to resist encroachments, and confine one another
within their proper spheres.

To accomplish the first end, it is deemed material that they
should have as little agency as possible in the appointment of one
another, and should all emanate directly from the same fountain
of authority — the people. And that it being expedient to relax
the principle, in respect to the judiciary department, with a view
to a more select choice of its organs — this defect in the creation
ought to be remedied by a permanent tenure of office ; which cer-
tainly becomes nominal and nugatory, if the existence of the
office rests on the pleasure of the legislature. The principle that
the several organs should have as little agency as possible in the
appointment of each other, is directly opposed to the claim in
favor of one of a discretionary agency to destroy another. The
second of the proposed ends is designed to be effected by the
provisions for fixing the compensations of the executive and

814 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

judicial departments. The third, by the qualified negative of the
executive on the acts of the two houses of Congress ; by the
right of one of these houses to accuse ; of the other to try and
punish the executive and judicial officers; and lastly, by the
right of the judges, as interpreters of the laws, to pronounce un-
constitutional acts void.

These are the means contemplated by the Constitution for
maintaining the limits assigned to itself, and for enabling the re-
spective organs of the government to keep each other in their
proper places, so that they may not have it in their power to
domineer the one over the other, and thereby in effect, though
not in form, to concentrate the powers in one department, over-
turn the government, and establish a tyranny. Unfortunate, if
these powerful precautions shall prove insufficient to accomplish
the end, and stem the torrent of the impostor Innovation, dis-
guised in the specious garb of patriotism !

The views which prevailed in the formation of the Constitution
are further illustrated by these additional comments from the
same source.*

" As liberty can have nothing to fear from the judiciary alone,
but would have every thing to fear from its union with either of
the other departments ; as all the effects of such a union must
ensue from a dependence of the former on the latter, notwithstand-
ing a nominal and apparent separation ; as from the natural
feebleness of the judiciary, it is in continual jeopardy of being
overpowered, awed or influenced by its co-ordinate branches ; and
as nothing can contribute so much to its firmness and indepen-
dence as permanency in office, this quality may therefore be justly
regarded as an indispensable ingredient in its Constitution ; and
in a great measure as the citadel of the public justice and the pub-
lic security."

" The complete independence of the courts of justice is pecu-
liarly essential in a limited Constitution. Limitations can be
preserved in practice no other way, than through the medium of
the courts of justice, whose duty it must be to declare all acts
contrary to the manifest tenor of the Constitution void."

* No. lsxviii.

Mi. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 815

Then follows a particular discussion of the position, that it is
the right and the duty of the courts to exercise such an autho-
rity : to repeat which, would swell this number to an improper
size.

The essence of the argument is, that every act of a delegated
authority, contrary to the tenor of the commission under which
it is exercised, is void ; consequently that no legislative act, in-
consistent with the Constitution, can be valid. That it is not a
natural presumption that the Constitution intended to make the
legislative body the final and exclusive judges of their own
powers; but more rational to suppose that the courts were
designed to be an intermediate body between the people and the
legislature, in order, among other things, to keep the latter
within the bounds assigned to its authority : that the interpreta-
tion of the laws being the peculiar province of the courts, and a
Constitution being in fact a fundamental law, superior in obligation
to a statute, if the Constitution and the statute are at variance, the
former ought to prevail against the latter ; the will of the people
against the will of the agents; and the judges ought in their
quality of interpreters of the laws, to pronounce and adjudge the
truth, namely, that the unauthorized statute is a nullity.

"Nor (continues the commentator) does this conclusion by
any means suppose a superiority of the judicial to the legislative
power. It only supposes that the power of the people is supe-
rior to both ; and that where the will of the legislature declared
in its statute, stands in opposition to that of the people declared in
the Constitution, the judges ought to be governed by the latter,
rather than the former. They ought to regulate their decisions
by the fundamental laws, rather than by those which are not funda-
mental."

"If, then, the courts of justice are to be considered as the
bulwarks of a limited Constitution against legislative encroachments,
this consideration will afford a strong argument for the permanent
tenure of judicial offices."

But no proposition can be more manifest than that this perma-
nency of tenure must be nominal, if made defeasible at the
pleasure of the legislature ; and that it is ridiculous to consider

81(3 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [.Et. 45.

it as an obstacle to encroachments of the legislative department,
if this department has a discretion to vacate or abolish it directly
or indirectly.

In recurring to the comments which have been cited, it is not
meant to consider them as evidence of any thing but of the
views with which the Constitution was framed. After all, the
Instrument must speak for itself. Yet, to candid minds, the co-
temporary explanation of it, by men, who had had a perfect op-
portunity of knowing the views of its framers, must operate as
a weighty collateral reason for believing the construction agree-
ing with this explanation to be right, rather than the opposite
one. It is too cardinal a point, to admit readily the supposition
that there was misapprehension; and whatever motives may
have subsequently occurred to bias the impressions of the one or
the other of the persons alluded to, the situation in which they
wrote, exempts both from the suspicion of an intention to misre-
present in this particular. Indeed a course of argument more
accommodating to the objections of the adversaries of the Con-
stitution would probably have been preferred as most politic, if
the truth, as conceived at the time, would have permitted a
modification. Much trouble would have been avoided by say-
ing, "The legislature will have a complete control over the
judges, by the discretionary power of reducing the number of
those of the Supreme Court, and of abolishing the existing
judges of the inferior courts, by the abolition of the courts
themselves." But this pretension is a novelty reserved for the
crooked ingenuity of after discoveries.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XVI.

March 19, 1802.
The President, as a politician, is in one sense particularly un-
fortunate. He. furnishes frequent opportunities of arraying him

Mt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 817

against himself — of combating his opinions at one period, by his
opinions at another. Without doubt, a wise and good man may,
on proper grounds, relinquish an opinion which he has once en-
tertained, and the change may even serve as a proof of candor
and integrity. But with such a man, changes of this sort, espe-
cially in matters of high public importance, must be rare. The
contrary is always a mark, either of a weak and versatile mind,
or of an artificial and designing character ; which, accommodating
its creed to circumstances, takes up or lays down an article of
faith, just as may suit a present convenience.

The question in agitation, respecting the Judiciary Depart-
ment, calls up another instance of opposition between the former
ideas of Mr. Jefferson, and his recent conduct. The leading
positions which have been advanced, as explanatory of the
policy of the Constitution in the structure of the different de-
partments, and as proper to direct the interpretation of the pro-
visions, which were contrived to secure the independence and
firmness of the judges, are to be seen in a very emphatical and
distinct form, in the Notes on Virginia. The passage in which
they appear, deserves to be cited at length, as well for its intrin-
sic merit, as by way of comment upon the true character of its
author ; presenting an interesting contrast between the maxims,
which experience had taught him while Governor of Virginia,
and those which now guide him as the official head of a great
party in the United States. It is in these words : —

" All the powers of government, legislative, executive, and
judiciary, result to the legislative body. The concentrating these
in the same hands, is precisely the definition of despotic govern-
ment, It will be no alleviation that these powers will be exer-
cised by a plurality of hands, and not by a single one. One
hundred and seventy-three despots would surely be as oppressive as
one. Let those who doubt it, turn their eyes on the Eepublic of
Venice. As little will it avail us that they are chosen by our-
selves. An elective despotism was not the government we fought
for; but one which should not only be founded on free principles,
but in which the powers of government should be so divided and
balanced among several bodies of magistracy, as that no one
g 52

818 HAMILTON'S WORKS. ' [&t. 45.

could transcend their legal limits without being effectually checked
and restrained by the others. For this reason, that Convention
which passed the ordinance of government, laid its foundation
on this basis, that the legislative, executive, and judiciary de-
partments, should be separate and distinct, so that no person
should exercise the powers of more than one of them at the same
time. But no barrier was provided between these several powers.
The judiciary and executive members were left dependent on the
legislative for their subsistence in office, and some of them for
their continuance in it. If, therefore, the legislature assumes
executive and judiciary powers, no opposition is likely to be
made, — nor if made, can be effectual ; because in that case, they
may put their proceedings into the form of an act of assembly,
which will render them obligatory on the other branches. They
have accordingly in many instances decided rights which should
have been left to judiciary controversy ; and the direction of the
Executive, during the whole time of their session, is becoming habitual
and familiar?

This passage fully recognizes these several important truths :
that the tendency of our governments is towards a concentra-
tion of the powers of the different departments in the legisla-
tive body ; that such a concentration, is precisely the defini-
tion of despotism, and that an effectual barrier between the re-
spective departments ought to exist. It also, by a strong impli-
cation, admits that officers during good behavior are independent
of their legislature for their continuance in office. This implica-
tion seems to be contained in the following sentence : " The
judiciary and executive members were left dependent on the
legislature for their subsistence in office, and some of them for
their continuance in it." The word "some" implies that others
were not left thus dependent ; and to what description of officers
can the exception be better applied than to the judges, the tenure
of whose offices was during good behavior ?

The sentiments of the President, delivered at a period when he
can be supposed to have been under no improper bias, must be
regarded by all those who respect his judgment, as no light evi-
dence of the truth of the doctrine for which we contend. Let

,Et. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 819

us, however, resume and pursue the subject on its merits, without
relying upon the aid of so variable and fallible an authority.

At an early part of the discussion in this examination, a con-
struction of the Constitution was suggested, to which it may not
be amiss to return. It amounts to this, that Congress have
power to new-model, or even to abrogate an Inferior Court, but
not to abolish the office or emoluments of a judge of such court
previously appointed. In the Congressional debates, some of the
speakers against the repealing law, appear to have taken it for
granted, that the abrogation of the court must draw with it the aboli-
tion of the judges, and therefore have denied in totality, the power
of abrogation. In the course of these papers, too, it has been
admitted, that if the preservation of the judges cannot be recon-
ciled with the power to annul the court, then the existence of
this power is rightly denied. But in an affair of such vast mag-
nitude, it is all-important to survey with the utmost caution, the
ground to be taken, and then to take and maintain it with in-
flexible fortitude and perseverance. Truth will be most likely
to prevail, when the arguments which support it, stop at a tem-
perate mean, consistent with practical convenience. Excess is
always error. There is hardly any theoretic hypothesis, which,
carried to a certain extreme, does not become practically false.
In construing a Constitution, it is wise, as far as possible to pur-
sue a course, which will reconcile essential principles with con-
venient modifications. If guided by this spirit, in the great
question which seems destined to decide the fate of our govern-
ment, it is believed that the result will accord with the construc-
tion, that Congress have a right to change or abolish inferior courts,
but not to abolish the actual judges.

Towards the support of this construction, it has been shown
in another place, that the courts and the judges are distinct legal
entities, which, in contemplation of law, may exist, independently
the one of the other— mutually related, but not inseparable.
The act proposed to be repealed exemplifies this idea in practice.
It abolishes the District Courts of Tennessee and Kentucky, and
transfers their judges to one of the Circuit Courts. Though the
authorities and jurisdiction of those courts are vested in the Cir-

820 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEi. 45.

cuit Court, to Avbich the judges are transferred; yet the identity
of the courts ceases. It cannot be maintained that courts, so dif-
ferent in their organization and jurisdiction, are the same ; nor
could a legislative transfer of the judges have been constitutional,
but upon the hypothesis, that the office of a judge may survive
the court of which he is a member. A new appointment by the
Executive, of two additional judges for the Circuit Court, would
othenvise have been necessary.

This precedent in all its points, is correct, and exhibits a
rational operation of the construction, which regards the office
of the judge, as distinct from the court ; as one of the elements,
or constituent parts, of which it is composed ; not as a mere in-
cident that must perish with its principal.

It will not be disputed, that the Constitution might have pro-
vided in terms, and with effect, that an Inferior Court which had
been established by law, might by law be abolished, so, neverthe-
less, that the judges of such court should retain the offices of
judges of the United States with the emoluments before attach-
ed to their offices. The operation of such a provision would be,
that when the court was abolished, all the functions to be ex-
ecuted in that court would be suspended, and the judge could
only continue to exert the authorities and perform the duties,
which might before have been performed, without reference to
causes pending in court; but he would have the capacity to be an-
nexed to another court, without the intervention of a new ap-
pointment, and by that annexation, simply to renew the exercise
of the authorities and duties which had been suspended.

If this might have been the effect of positive and explicit
provision, why may it not likewise be the result of provisions,
which, presenting opposite considerations, point to the same con-
clusion : as a compromise calculated to reconcile those considera-
tions with each other and to unite different objects of public
utility? Surely the affirmative infringes no principle of legal
construction ; transgresses no rule of good sense.

Let us then inquire, whether there are not in this case op-
posite and conflicting considerations, demanding a compromise of
this nature ? On the one hand, it is evident, that if an inferior

/Ex. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 821

court once instituted, though found inconvenient, cannot be
abolished, this is to entail upon the community the mischief, be
it more or less, of a first error in the administration of the gov-
ernment: on the other hand, it is no less evident, that if the
judges hold their offices at the discretion of the legislature, they
cease to be a co-ordinate, and become a dependent branch of the
government; from which dependence, mischiefs infinitely greater
are to be expected.

All these mischiefs, the lesser as well as the greater, are
avoided by saying, " Congress may abolish the courts, but the judges
shall retain their offices with the appertinent emoluments." The only
remaining inconvenience then, will be one too insignificant to
weiffh in a national scale, that is, the expense of the compensa-
tion's of the incumbents during their lives. The future and
permanent expense will be done away.

But will this construction secure the benefits intended by
the Constitution to be derived from the independent tenure
of judicial office?— Substantially it will.— The mam object is
to preserve the judges from being influenced by an apprehension
of the loss of the advantages of office. As this loss could not be
incurred, that influence would not exist. Their firmness could not
be assailed by the danger of being superseded, and perhaps con-
signed to want. Let it be added, that when it was once understood
not to be in the power of the legislature to deprive the judges
of their offices and emoluments, it would be a great restraint
upon ihe factious motives, which might induce the abolition of a
court This would be much less likely to happen unless for gen-
uine reasons of public utility; and of course there would be a
much better prospect of the stability of judiciary establish-
ments. _.

Lucius Crassus.

822 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

NO. XVII.

March 20, 1802.

It was intended to have concluded the argument respecting
the Judiciary Department with the last number. But a speech*
lately delivered in the House of Eepresentatives, having since
appeared, which brings forward one new position, and reiterates
some others in a form well calculated to excite prejudice, it may
not be useless to devote some further attention to the subject.

The new position is, that the clause of the Constitution, en-
abling the judges to hold their offices during good behavior,
ought to be understood to have reference to the Executive only,

BECAUSE ALL OFFICES ARE HOLDEN OF THE PRESIDENT ! !

This is the second example of a doctrine contrary to every
republican idea, broached in the course of this debate by the
advocates of the repealing law.f Had a federalist uttered the
sentiment, the cry of monarchy would have resounded from one
extremity of the United States to the other. It would have been
loudly proclaimed that the mask was thrown aside, by a glaring
attempt to transform the servants of the people into the supple
tools of Presidential ambition. But now, to justify a plain vio-
lation of the Constitution, and serve a party purpose, this bold
and dangerous position is avowed without hesitation or scruple,
from a quarter remarkable, chiefly, for the noisy promulgation
of popular tenets.

The position is not correct ; and it is of a nature to demand
the indignant reprobation of every real republican. In the
theory of all the American Constitutions, offices are h olden of
the Government, in other words, of the People through the
Government. The appointment is indeed confided to a partic-
ular organ, and in instances in which it is not otherwise provid-
ed by the Constitution or the laws, the removal of the officer is

* By Mr. Giles.

f The other is the denial of the right of the courts to keep the Legislature
within its constitutional bounds by pronouncing laws which transgress them, in-
operative.

jEt.45.] the examination. 823

left to the pleasure or discretion of that organ. But both these
acts suppose merely an instrumentality of the organ, from the
necessity or expediency of the people's acting in such case by an
agent.— They do not suppose the substitution of the agent to the
people, as the object of the fealty or allegiance of the officer

It is said that the word holden is a technical term denoting
tenure, and implying that there is one who holds ; another of
whom the thing is holden. This assertion is indeed agreeable to
the common use of the word in our law books. But it is hardly
to be presumed that it was employed in the Constitution in so
artificial a sense. It is more likely that it was designed to be
the equivalent of the words possess, enjoy. Yet let the assertion be
supposed correct.— In this case, it must also be remembered that
the term in this technical sense includes two things, the quantity
of interest in the subject holden, and the meritorious considera-
tion upon which the grant is made; which in many cases in-
cludes service or rent, in all fealty ; this last forming emphati-
cally the link or tie between the lord and the tenant, the sov-
ereign and the officer. Will any one dare to say that fealty or
allegiance, as applied to the government of the United States,
is due from the officer to the President? Certainly it is not.
It is due to the people in their political capacity. If so, it will
follow that the office is holden not of the President, but of the
Nation, State or Government.

It is remarkable that the Constitution has every where used
the language " Officers of the United States," as if to denote the
relation between the officer and the sovereignty; as if to exclude
the dangerous pretension that he is the mere creature of the
executive ; acccordingly, he is to take an oath to support the
Constitution," that is, an oath of fidelity to the government; but
no oath of any kind to the President.

In the theory of the British government, it is entirely differ-
ent ; there the majesty of the nation is understood to reside in the
prince. He is deemed the real sovereign. He is, emphatically,
the fountain of honor. Allegiance is due to him; and conse-
quently, public offices are, in the true notion of tenure, holden of
him. But in our Constitution the President is not the sovereign ;

824 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mv.m.

the sovereignty is vested in the government, collectively ; and it
is of the sovereignty, strictly and technically speaking, that a
public officer holds his office.

If this view of the matter be just, the basis of the argument,
in point of fact, fails ; and the principle of it suggests an opposite
conclusion, namely, that the condition of good behavior is obliga-
tory on the whole government, and ought to operate as a barrier
against any authority by which the displacement of the judges
may be directly or indirectly effected.

In the same speech, much stress has been laid on the words
" during their continuance in office," as implying that the com:
pensation of the judge was liable to cease by a legislative discon-
tinuance of the office. If the words had been, during the continu-
ance of the office, the argument would have been pertinent — but as
they stand, a different inference, if any, is to be drawn from them.
They seem rather to relate to the continuance of the officer than
to that of the office. But in truth, an inference either way — is a
pitiful subtilty. The clause is neutral ; its plain and simple
meaning being, that the compensation shall not be diminished
while the judge retains the office. It throws no light whatever
on the question how he may lawfully cease to possess it.

Another point is pressed with great earnestness, and with
greater plausibility. It is this, that the Constitution must have
intended to attach recompense to service, and cannot be supposed
to have meant to bestow compensation, where, in the opinion of
the legislature, no service was necessary. Without doubt, the
Constitution does contemplate service as the ground of compensa-
tion ; but it likewise takes it for granted, that the legislature will
be circumspect in the institution of offices ; and especially, that
it will be careful to establish none of a permanent nature, which
will not be permanently useful. With this general presumption,
the Constitution anticipates no material inconvenience from the
permanency of judicial offices connected with permanent emolu-
ments. And though it should have foreseen that cases might
happen in which the service was not needed, yet there is no diffi-
culty whatever in the supposition, that it was willing to encounter
the trivial contingent evil of having to maintain a few superflu-

Ms. 4S.J THE EXAMINATION. 825

ous officers, in order to obtain the immense good, of establishing
and securing the independence of the courts of justice. The
readiness of the officer to render service at the will of the govern-
ment is the consideration, as to him, for continuing the compen-
sation. But the essential inducement is the public utility incident
to the independency of the judicial character. As to the suppo-
sition of an enormous abuse of power, by creating a long list of
sinecures, and a numerous host of pensioners ; whenever such a
thing shall happen, it will constitute one of those extreme cases,
which, on the principle of necessity, may authorize extra-consti-
tutional remedies. But these are cases which can never be ap-
pealed to for the interpretation of a Constitution, which, in met-
ing out the powers of the government, must be supposed to adjust
them on the presumption of a fair execution.

A further topic of argument is, that our doctrine would equally
restrain the legislature from abolishing offices held during pleas-
ure. But this is not true. The two things stand on different
ground. First, the executive lias such an agency in the enacting
of laws, that, as a general rule, the displacement of the officer
cannot happen against his pleasure. Second, the pleasure of the
President, in all cases not particularly excepted, is understood to
be subject to the direction of the law. Third, an officer during
pleasure, having merely a revocable interest, the abolition of his
office is no infringement of his right. In substance, he is a tenant
at the will of the government, liable to be discontinued by the exe-
cutive organ, in the form of a removal ; by the legislative, in the
form of an abolition of the office. These different considerations
reconcile the legislative authority to abolish, with the prerogative
of the Chief Magistrate to remove, and with the temporary right
of individuals to hold. — And therefore, there is no reason against
the exercise of such an authority ; nothing to form an exception
to the general competency of the legislative power to provide for the
public welfare. Very different is the case as to the judges. The
most persuasive motives of public policy, the safety of liberty
itself, require that the judges shall be independent of the legisla-
tive body ; in order to maintain effectually the separation between
the several departments. The provision that their compensation

826 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 45.

shall not be diminished, is a clear constitutional indication, that
their independence was intended to be guarded against the legis-
lature. The express declaration that they shall hold their offices
during good behavior, that is, upon a condition dependent on them-
selves, is repugnant to the hypothesis that they shall hold at the
mere pleasure of others. Provisions which profess to confer rights
on individuals, are always entitled to a liberal interpretation in
support of the rights, and ought not, without necessity, to receive
an interpretation subversive of them. Provisions which respect
the organization of a co ordinate branch of the government, ought
to be construed in such a manner, as to procure for it stability
and efficiency, rather than in such a manner as to render it weak,
precarious, and dependent. These various and weighty reasons
serve to establish strong lines of discrimination between judicial
and other officers ; and to prove, that no inference can be drawn
from the power of the legislature as to the latter, which will be
applicable to the former.

One more defence of this formidable claim is attempted to
be drawn from the example of the judiciary establishment of
Great Britain. It is observed, that this establishment, the theme
of copious eulogy on account of the independence of the judges,
places those officers upon a footing far less firm than will be that
of the judges of the United States, even admitting the right of
Congress to abolish their offices by abolishing the courts of which
they are members. And as one proof of the assertion, it is men-
tioned, that the English judges are removable by the king, on
the address of the two houses of parliament.

All this might be very true, and yet would prove nothing as
to what is or ought to be the construction of our Constitution on
this point. It is plain from the provision respecting compensation,
that the framers of that Constitution intended to prop the inde-
pendence of our judges, beyond the precautions which have been
adopted in England in respect to the judges of that country ; and
the intention apparent in this particular, is an argument, that the
same spirit may have governed other provisions. Cogent reasons
have been assigned, applicable to our system, and not applicable
to the British system, for securing the independence of our judges
against the legislative, as well as against the executive power.

jEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 827

It is alleged that the statute of Great Britain of the 13 of Wil-
liam III. was the model from which the framers of our Constitu-
tion copied the provisions for the independence of our judiciary.
It is certainly true, that the idea of the tenure of office during
good behavior, found in several of our Constitutions, is borrowed
from that source. But it is evident that the framers of our
federal system did not mean to confine themselves to that model. —
Hence the restraint of the legislative discretion, as to compensa-
tion ; hence the omission of the provision for the removal of the
judges by the executive, on the application of the two branches
of the legislature; a provision which has been imitated in some
of the State governments.

This very omission affords no light inference, that it was the
intention to depart from the principle of making the judges re-
movable from office, by the co-operation or interposition of the
legislative body. "Why else was this qualification of the perma-
nent tenure of the office, which forms a conspicuous feature in the
British statute, and in some of the State Constitutions, dropped in
the plan of the federal government?

The insertion of it in the British statute, may also be supposed
to have been dictated by the opinion, that without a special reser-
vation, the words during good behavior would have imported an
irrevocable tenure. If so, the precaution will serve to fortify our
construction.

But, however it may seem in theory, in fact, the difference in
the genius of the two governments would tend to render the
independence of the judges more secure under the British statute,
than it would be in this country, upon the construction which
allows to Congress the right to abolish. The reason is this. —
From the Constitution of the British monarchy, the thing chiefly
to be apprehended is, an overbearing influence of the crown upon
the judges. The jealousy of executive influence resting upon
more powerful motives in that country, than in this, it may be
expected to operate as a stronger obstacle there than here, to an
improper combination between the executive and legislative
departments to invade the judiciary. Moreover, the British exe-
cutive has greater means of resisting parliamentary control, than

828 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45.

an American executive has of resisting the control of an American
legislature ; consequently, the former would be in less danger
than the latter, of being driven to a concurrence in measures hos-
tile to the independence of the judges. And in both these ways,
there would be greater security for the British than for the Ameri-
can judges.

Thus is it manifest, that in every attitude in which the subject
has been placed, the argument is victorious against the power of
Congress to abolish the judges. But what, alas! avails the
demonstration of this important truth ? The fatal blow has been
struck! It is no longer possible to arrest the rash and daring
arm of power ! Can the proof that it has acted without right,
without warrant — can this heal the wound ? — Can this renovate
the perishing Constitution? Yes, let us hope that this will be
the case. Let us trust that the monitory voice of true patriotism
will at length reach the ears of a considerate people, and will
rouse them to a united and vigorous exertion for the restoration
of their violated chaeter ; not by means, , either disorderly
or guilty, but by means which the Constitution will sanction and
reason approve. Surely this will be so. — A people, who, descry-
ing tyranny at a distance, and guided only by the light of just
principles, before they had yet felt the scourge of oppression,
could nobly hazard all in the defence of their rights ; a people,
who, sacrificing their prejudices on the altar of experience, and
spurning the artifices of insidious demagogues, could, as a delibe-
rate act of national reason, adopt and establish for themselves
a Constitution, which bid fair to immortalize their glory and their
happiness: such a people, though misled for a period, will not be
the final victims of a delusion, alike inauspicious to their reputa-
tion and to their welfare. They will not long forget the fame
they have so justly merited, nor give the world occasion to as-
cribe to accident, what has hitherto been imputed to wisdom.
They will disdain to herd with the too long list of degraded na-
tions, who have bowed their necks to unworthy idols of their own
creating — who, immolating their best friends, at the shrine of
falsehood, have sunk under the yoke of sycophants and betrayers.
They will open their eyes and see the precipice on which they

JEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 829

stand ! They will look around and select from among tbe throng,
the men who have heretofore established a claim to their confi-
dence on the solid basis of able and faithful service ; and they
will, with indignation and scorn, banish from their favor the
wretched impostors, who, with honeyed lips and guileful hearts,
are luring them to destruction ! Admonished by the past, and
listening again to the counsels of real friends, they will make a
timely retreat from the danger which threatens — they will once
more arrange themselves under the banners of the Constitution —
with anxious care will repair the breaches that have been made,
and will raise new mounds against the future assaults of open or
secret enemies!

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XVIII.

April 8th, 1802.

In order to cajole the people, the message abounds with all
the commonplace of popular harangue, and prefers claims of
merit, for circumstances of equivocal or of trivial value. With
pompous absurdity are we told of the "multiplication of men, sus-
ceptible of happiness" (as if this susceptibility were a privilege
peculiar to our climate,) " habituated to self-government, and valu-
ing its blessings above all price. ," Fortunate will it be, if the pre-
sent favorites of the people do not, before their reign is at an
end, transform those blessings into curses, so serious and heavy,
as to make even despotism a desirable refuge from the elysium
of democracy.

In a country, the propensities of which are opposed even to
necessary burdens, an alarm is attempted to be excited about the
general tendency of government, " to leave to labor the smallest
portion of its earnings on which it can subsist, and to consume the
residue of what it was instituted to guard.'' Ilf might have been
well, to have explained whether it is the whole of the earnings of
labor, which government is instituted to guard, or only the rest-

830 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [jEt. 45.

due after deducting what is necessary to enable it to fulfil the duty
of protection. Kepresentatives who share with their constitu-
ents in an excessive jealousy of executive abuses, are cantingly
admonished to "circumscribe discretionary powers over mo-
ney," though they are known to be already so limited, as that
the Executive, even on the prospect of a rupture with a foreign
power, would not possess the means of obtaining intelligence the
most necessary for the proper direction of its measures. That
the new administration has not boldly invaded the laws and
withheld the funds applicable to the payment of the principal
and interest of the public debt, is fastidiously proclaimed as evi-
dence that " the public faith has been exactly maintained." The
praise of a spirit of economy is attempted to be gained, by the sup-
pression of a trifling number of officers, (a majority of whom had
become unnecessary by the mere change of circumstances,) and by
declaiming, with affectation, against " the multiplication of officers
and the increase of expense.'1'1 The proposition to reduce our insignifi-
cant military establishment (the actual number of troops probably
not exceeding that which is intended to be retained) cannot be sug-
gested, without tickling our ears with the trite but favorite max-
im, that " a standing army ought not to be kept up in time of peaceP
To make a display of concern for their prosperity — agriculture,
manufactures, commerce, and navigation, are introduced among
the pageants of the piece; but, except as "to protection from
casual embarrassments," we are sagaciously informed that these
" great PILLARS of our prosperity, ought to be left to take care of
themselves.'''' The carying trade, however, seems to engage more
solicitude ; no doubt that we may be terrified by the expecta-
tion of future evils, from a much traduced instrument,* which
in time past, has done nothing but good, in spite of the gloomy
predictions of patriotic seers.

Such are the minor features of this curious performance. Had
these been its only blemishes, a regard to national reputation
would have forbidden a comment ; but connected as they are
with schemes of innovation replete with great present mischief,

* The treaty with Great Britain.

Mt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 831

and still greater future danger ; designed as they are to varnish
over projects which threaten to precipitate our nation from an
enviable height of prosperity to that low and abject state, from
which it was raised by the establishment and wise administra-
tion of our present government — they become entitled to notice
as additional indications of character and disposition.

The merits of the message have now been pretty fully dis-
cussed ; but before it is dismissed, it may be useful to take a
view of it in another and a different light ; as one link in a chain
of testimony, which the force of circumstances, at every step of
the new administration, extorts from them, in favor of their pre-
decessors.

The President, on the threshold of office, at the first opportu-
nity of speaking to his constituents, in his very inaugural speech ;
full of a truth, which the most rancorous prejudice cannot ob
scure, and not sufficiently reflecting on the inferences which
would be drawn, proclaims aloud to the world, that a govern-
ment, which he had disapproved in its institution and virulently
opposed in its progress, was in the full tide of successful
experiment. In the last address he again unconsciously be-
comes the panygerist of those whom he seeks to depreciate. The
situation in which (humanly speaking) we have been preserved
by the prudent and firm councils of the preceding administra-
tions, amidst the revolutionary and convulsive throes, amidst the
desolating conflicts of Europe, is there a theme of emphatic gra-
tulation. It shall not be forgotten, as the solitary merit of the
address, that we are reminded of the gratitude due to Heaven for
the blessings of this situation. Amidst the spurious symptoms
of a spirit of reform, it is consoling to observe one, which, in
charity, ought to be supposed genuine. But it would not have
diminished our conviction of its sincerity, if the instruments of
Providence in the accomplishment of the happy work, had not
been entirely overlooked ; since this would have been evidence
of a willingness to acknowledge and retract error — to make re-
paration for injury. But though they have been overlooked by
the message, the American people ought never for a moment to
forget them. Their efforts and their struggles, their moderation

832 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [j£r. 45.

and their energy, their care and their foresight ; the mad and
malignant opposition of their political adversaries; the charges
of pusillanimity and perfidy lavished on the declaration of neu-
trality ; the resistance to measures for avoiding a rupture with
Great Britain ; the attempt to rush at once into reprisals ; the cry
for war with the enemies of France, as the enemies of republican
liberty ; all these things should be for ever imprinted on the me-
mory of a just and vigilant nation. And in recollecting them,
they should equally recollect that the opposers of the salutary
plans to which they are so much indebted, were and are the
zealous partisans of the present head of our government ; who
have at all times submitted to his influence and implicitly obey-
ed his nod ; who never would have pursued with so much vehe-
mence the course they did, had they known it to be contrary to
the views of their chief: nor should it be forgotten that this
chief, in the negotiation with the British minister, conducted by
him as Secretary of State, acted precisely as if it had been his
design to widen, not to heal the breach between the two coun-
tries ; that he at first objected to the declaration of neutrality ;
was afterwards reluctantly dragged into the measures connected
with it ; was believed by his friends not to approve the system
of conduct, of which he was the official organ ; was publicly and
openly accused by the then agent of the French republic with
duplicity and deception, with having been the first to inflame his
mind with ill impressions of the principles and views of leading
characters in our government, not excepting the revered Wash-
ington ; that this chief, at a very critical period of our affairs
in reference to the war of Europe, withdrew from the direction
of that department peculiarly charged with the management
of our foreign relations, evidently to avoid being more deeply
implicated in the consequences of the position, which had been
assumed by the administration ; but on the hollow pretence of a
dislike to public life and a love of philosophic retirement. Citi-
zens of America, mark the sequel and learn from it instruction !
You have been since agitated to the centre, to raise to the first
station in your government the very man who, at a conjuncture
when your safety and your welfare demanded his stay, early re-

jEt. 45. j THE EXAMINATION. 833

linquished a subordinate, but exalted and very influential post,
on a pretence as frivolous as it has proved to be insincere ! Was
he, like the virtuous Washington, forced from a beloved retreat,
by the unanimous and urgent call of his country ? No ; he
stalked forth the champion of faction — having never ceased in
the shade of his retreat, by all the arts of intrigue, to prepare
the way to that elevation, for which a restless ambition impa-
tiently panted.

The undesigned eulogy of the men who have been slandered out
of the confidence of their fellow-citizens, has not been confined to
the situation of the country as connected with the war of Europe.
In the view given of the very flourishing state of our finances,
the worst of the calumnies against those men is refuted, and it is
admitted, that in this article of vital importance to the public
welfare, their measures have been provident and effectual beyond
example. To the charge of a design to saddle the nation with a
perpetual debt, a plain contradiction is given by the concession,
that the provisions which have been made for it are so ample, as
even to justify the relinquishment of a part no less considerable
than the whole of the internal revenue. The same proposal testifies
the brilliant success of our fiscal system generally ; and that it is
more than equal to all that has been undertaken, to all that has
been promised to the nation.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury, as published,
confirms this high commendation of the conduct of the former
administrations. After relieving each State from the burden of
its particular debt, by assuming the payment of it on account of
the United States, in addition to the general debt of the nation ;
after settling the accounts between the States relatively to their
exertions for the common defence in our revolutionary war, and
providing for the balances found due to such of them as were
creditors ; after maintaining, with complete success, an obstinate
and expensive war with the Indian tribes ; after making large
disbursements for the suppression of two insurrections against
the government ; after liberal contributions to the Barbary pow-
ers, to induce them to open to our merchants the trade of the
Mediterranean ; after incurring a responsibility for indemnities
G 53

834 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

to a large amount, due to British merchants, in consequence of
infractions of the treaty of peace by some of the States ; after
heavy expenditures for creating and supporting a navy, and for
other preparations, to guard our independence and territory
against the hostilities of a foreign nation ; after the accomplish-
ment of all these very important objects, it is now declared to
the United States, by the present head of the Treasury, by the
confidential minister of the present Chief Magistrate, by the
most subtle and implacable of the enemies of the former admin-
istrations, " That the actual revenues of the Union are sufficient
to defray all the expenses, civil and military, of government, to the
extent authorized by existing laivs, to meet ALL the engagements
OF THE United States ; and to discharge in fifteen years and a
half the whole of our public debt " — foreign as well as do-
mestic, new as well as old. Let it be understood, that the reve-
nues spoken of were all provided under the two first administrations ;
and that the "existing laws" alluded to, were all passed under
the same administrations ; consequently, that the revenues had not
been increased, nor the expenses diminished, by the men who now hold
the reins : and then let it be asked, whether so splendid a result
does not reflect the highest credit on those who in time past have
managed the affairs of the nation ? Does not the picture furnish
matter not only for consolation, but even for exultation, to every
true friend of his country? And amidst the joy which he must
feel in the contemplation, can he be so unjust as to refuse the
tribute of commendation to those, by whose labors his country
has been placed on so fair an eminence ? Will he endure to see
any part of the fruits of those labors blasted or hazarded, by a
voluntary surrender of any portion of the means which are to
insure the advantages of so bright a prospect?

In vain will envy or malevolence reply, " The happy situa-
tion in which we are placed is to be attributed, not to the labors
of those who have heretofore conducted our affairs, but to an
unforeseen and unexpected progress of our country." Candor
and truth will answer — Praise is always due to public men who
take their measures in such a manner as to derive to the nation
the benefit of favorable circumstances which are possible, as well
a of those which are foreseen. If proportionate provision had not

jEt. 45.] THE EXAMINATION. 835

been made, concurrently with the progress of our national re-
sources, the effect of them would not have been felt as to the
past, and would not have been matured as to the future.

But why should it be pretended that this progress was not
anticipated ? In past experience, there were many data for cal-
culation. The ratio of the increase of our population had been
observed and stated ; the extent and riches of our soil were
known ; the materials for commercial enterprise were no secret;
the probable effect of the measures of the government, to foster
and encourage navigation, trade, and industry, was well under-
stood ; and especially, the influence of the means which were
adapted to augment our active capital, and to supply a fit and
adequate medium of circulation, towards the increase of national
wealth, was declared and insisted upon, in official reports.
Though adventitious circumstances may have aided the result, it is
certain, that a penetrating and comprehensive mind could be at no
loss to foresee a progress of our affairs, similar to what has been
experienced. Upon this anticipation, the assumption of the State
debts, and other apparently bold measures of the government,
were avowedly predicated, in opposition to the feeble and con-
tracted views of the little politicians, who now triumph in
the success of their arts, and enjoy the benefits of a policy, which
they had neither the wisdom to plan nor the spirit to adopt ; idly
imagining that the cunning of a demagogue and the talents of a
statesman are synonymous. Consummate in the paltry science
of courting and winning popular favor, they falsely infer that
they have the capacity to govern, and they will be the last to
discover their error. But let them be assured that the people
will not long continue the dupes of their pernicious sorceries.
Already the cause of truth has derived this advantage from the
crude essays of their chief, that the film has been removed from
many an eye. The credit of great abilities was allowed him by
a considerable portion of those who disapproved his principles ;
but the short space of nine months has been amply sufficient to
dispel that illusion ; and even some of his most partial votaries
begin to suspect that they have been mistaken in the object of
their idolatry.

Lucius Crassus.

H36 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION.

RESOLUTIONS FOR THE AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION OF
THE UNITED STATES IN THE LEGISLATURE OF NEW-YORK.

1802.

Resolved: as the sense of the legislature, that the following
amendments ought to be incorporated into the Constitution of
the United States, as a necessary safeguard in the choice of a
President and Vice-President, against pernicious dissensions, as
the most eligible mode of obtaining a full and fair expression of
the public will in such election.

1st. That Congress shall, from time to time, divide each State
into districts, equal to the whole number of Senators and Repre-
sentatives from such State in the Congress of the United States,
and shall direct the mode of choosing an elector of President
and Vice-President, in each of the said districts, who shall be
chosen by citizens who have the qualifications requisite for elec-
tors of the most numerous branch of the State Legislature, and
that the districts shall be formed, as nearly as may be, with an
equal proportion of population in each, and of counties, and, if
necessary, parts of counties contiguous to each other, except
where there may be any detached portion of territory, not suf-
ficient of itself to form a district, which then shall be an-
nexed to some other nearest thereto.

2d. That in all future elections of President and Vice-Pre-
sident, the persons voted for shall be particularly designated,
by declaring which is voted for as President, and which as Vice-
President.

Resolved, that the president of the Senate, and speaker of
the Assembly, transmit a copy of the preceding resolutions to
the Senators and Representatives in Congress, from this State,
with an earnest request, that they would use their best exertions
for obtaining the adoption of the above amendments, or other
amendments in substance equivalent, so as that the President

JEt. 45.] MEMORIAL. S3T

and Vice-President may be separately designated in voting for
them, and that the electors for both may be chosen in distinct
districts.

SUPPLYING NEW- YORK WITH WATER.

1802.
To the Honorable the Legislature of the State of New- York :

The memorial of the subscribers, citizens of New-York,
respectfully showeth —

That your memorialists have become alarmed, lest a difference
of opinion about the best mode of providing the means of con-
veying water in pipes throughout the city (a measure which your
memorialists deem of essential consequence), should prevent any
law being passed on the subject.

That without desiring to interfere with the plan which, un-
der the patronage of the corporation of the city, they under-
stand, has been presented to your consideration, they have
thought it may not be improper to suggest an alternative, in
case that plan should not be improved.

It is, that a company may be incorporated with a capital not
exceeding one million of dollars, to be formed by voluntary
subscriptions of fifty dollars to a share, and with the necessary
powers to enable them to act.

Of this capital, it may be expedient to reserve to the corpo-
ration, at its option, a number of shares not exceeding one third ;
and it may be provided that the recorder shall be ex-officio a
director of the company.

It will likewise conduce materially to the success of the plan,
if the Legislature will apply to this object, the duties arising
from sales by auction. It may be a fund for raising a correspond-
ent principal to be invested in stock of the company, from
which a superior revenue may be eventually derived.

838 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [vEt. 45.

Your memorialists deeming it unnecessary to enter into
further details, pray leave to bring in a bill for the above men-
tioned purpose.

PLAN OF THE MERCHANTS' BANK.

To all to whom these presents shall come, or in any wise concern.

Be it known and made manifest, that we the subscribers, have
formed a company or limited partnership, and do hereby associ-
ate and agree with each other, to conduct business in the manner
hereinafter specified and described, by and under the name and
style of the "Merchants' Bank," and we do hereby mutually
covenant, declare, and agree, that the following are and shall be
the fundamental articles of this our association and agreement
with each other, by which we, and all persons who at any time
hereafter may transact business with the said company, shall be
bound and concluded.

I. The capital stock of the said company shall consist of one
million two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, in money of the
United States. The said capital stock shall be divided into shares
of fifty dollars each : two dollars and fifty cents on each share
shall be paid at the time of subscribing, and the remainder shall
be paid at such times, and in such proportions as the board of
directors shall order and appoint, under pain of forfeiting to the
said company the said shares, and all previous payments thereon :
but no payment shall be required, unless by a notice to be pub-
lished for at least fifteen days, in two newspapers printed in the
city of New-York.

II. The affairs of the said company, shall be conducted by
sixteen directors, who shall elect one of their number to be the
president thereof, and nine of the directors shall form a board or
quorum for transacting all the business of the company, except

jEx.45.] MERCHANTS' BANK. 839

ordinary discounts, which it shall be in the power of any five of
the directors to perform, of whom the president shall always be
one, except in case of his sickness or necessary absence, when his
place may be supplied by any other director, whom he by writing
under his hand, shall nominate for that purpose ; and until the
second Tuesday in June, one thousand eight hundred and four,
Oliver Wolcott, Richard Varick, Peter Jay Munro, Joshua Sands,
Thomas Storm, William W. Woolsey, John Hone, John Kane,
Joshua Jones, Robert Gilchrist, Wynant Van Zandt, jun., Isaac
Bronson, James Roosevelt, John Swartwout, Henry I. Wyckoff,
and Isaac Hicks, shall be directors of the said company ; the directors
from and after that period, shall be elected for one year by the stock-
holders, for the time being, and each director shall be a stockholder
at the time of his election, and shall cease to be a director if he should
cease to be a stockholder: and the number of votes which each
stockholder shall be entitled to, shall be equal to the number of
shares which he shall have held on the books of the company,
for at least sixty days prior to the election ; and all stockholders
shall vote at elections by ballot, either personally or by proxy ;
to be made in such form as the board of directors may appoint.

III. A general meeting of the stockholders of the company
shall be holden upon the first Tuesday of June, in every year
(excepting in June now next ensuing), at such place as the board
of directors shall appoint, by notice, to be published in two news-
papers printed in the city of New-York, at least fifteen days pre-
vious to such meeting, for the purpose of electing directors for
the ensuing year, who shall take their seats at the board on the
second Tuesday in the same month of June, and immediately
proceed to elect the president.

IV. The board of directors are hereby fully empowered to
make, revise, and alter or annul, all such rules, by-laws, and
regulations, for the government of the company, and that of their
officers, servants, and affairs, as they, or a majority of them, shall
from time to time think expedient, not inconsistent with law, or
these articles of association ; and to use, employ, and dispose of
the joint stock, funds or property of the said company (subject
only to the restrictions herein after contained) as to them, or a
majority of them, shall seem expedient.

840 HAMILTON'S WORKS

[Mt. 45.

V. All bills, bonds, notes, and every contract and engagement
on behalf of the company, shall be signed by the president ; and
countersigned or attested by the cashier of the company ; and
the funds of the company shall in no case be held responsible for
any contract or engagement whatever, unless the same shall be
so signed and countersigned, or attested as aforesaid.

VI. The books, papers, correspondence and funds of the
company, shall at all times be subject to the inspection of the
directors.

VII. The said board of directors shall have power to ap-
point a cashier, and all other officers and servants, for executing
the business of the company ; and to establish the compensations
to be paid to the president and all the other officers and servants
of the company respectively ; all which, together with all other
necessary expenses, shall be defrayed out of the funds of the
company.

VIII. A majority of the directors shall have power to call a
general meeting of the stockholders, for purposes relative to the
concerns of the company ; giving at least thirty days' notice, in
two of the public newspapers, printed in the city of New-York,
and specifying in such notice the object or objects of such meet-
ing.

IX. The shares of capital stock, at any time owned by any
individual stockholder, shall be transferable on the books of the
company, according to such rules as, conformable to law, maybe
established in that behalf by the board of directors ; but all debts
actually due and payable to the company, by a stockholder re-
questing a transfer, must be satisfied before such transfer shall be
made, unless the board of directors shall direct to the contrary.

X. No transfer of stock in this company shall be considered
as binding upon the company, unless made in a book or books,
to be kept for that purpose by the company. And it is hereby
further expressly agreed and declared, that any stockholder, who
shall transfer in manner aforesaid all his stock or shares in this
company, to any other person or persons whatever, shall ipso
facto cease to be a member of this company ; and that any person
or persons whatever, who shall accept a transfer of any stock or

jEt. 45.] MERCHANTS' BANK. 841

share in this company, shall ipso facto become and be a member
of this company, according to these articles of association.

XL It is hereby expressly and explicitly declared to be the
object and intention of the persons who associate under the style
or firm of the " Merchants' Bank," that the joint stock or property
of the said company (exclusive of dividends to be made in the
manner hereinafter mentioned) shall alone be responsible for the
debts and engagements of the said company. And that no per-
son, who shall or may deal with this company, or to whom they
shall or may become in any wise indebted, shall on any pretence
whatever have recourse against the separate property of any pre-
sent or future member of this company, or against their persons,
further than may be necessary to secure the faithful application
of the funds thereof, to the purposes to which by these presents
they are liable. But all persons accepting any bond, bill, note,
or other contract of this company, signed by the president, and
countersigned or attested by the cashier of the company for the
time being, or dealing with it in any other manner whatsoever,
thereby respectively give credit to the said joint stock or property
of the said company, and thereby respectively disavow having
recourse, on any pretence whatever, to the person or separate
property of any present or future member of this company, except
as above mentioned. And all suits to be brought against this
company (if any shall be) shall be brought against the president
for the time being ; and in case of his death or removal from
office, pending any such suit against him, measures shall betaken
at the expense of the company for substituting his successor in
office as a defendant; so that persons having demands upon the
company, may not be prejudiced or delayed by that event, or if
the person suing shall go on against the person first named as
defendant (notwithstanding his death or removal from office), this
company shall take no advantage by writ of error, or otherwise,
of such proceeding, on that account ; and all recoveries had in
manner aforesaid, shall be conclusive upon the company, so far
as to render the company's said joint stock or property liable
thereby, and no further ; and the company shall immediately
pay the amount of such recovery out of their joint stock, but not

842 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [JEt. 45.

otherwise. And in case of any suit at law, the president shall
sign his appearance upon the writ, or file common bail thereto ;
it being expressly understood and declared, that all persons deal-
ing with the said company agree to these terms, and are to be
bound thereby.

XII. Dividends of the profits of the company, or of so much
of the said profits as shall be deemed expedient and proper, shall
be declared and paid half yearly during the months of May and
November in every year, and shall from time to time be deter-
mined by a majority of the said directors, at a meeting to beheld
for that purpose, and shall in no case exceed the amount of the
net profits actually acquired by the company ; so that the capi-
tal stock of the company shall never be impaired by dividends :
and at the expiration of every three years, from the first Tuesday
of June next, a dividend of surplus profits shall be made, but the
directors shall be at liberty to retain at least one per cent, upon
the capital, as a fund for future contingencies.

XIII. If the said directors shall at any time, wilfully and
knowingly, make or declare any dividend which shall impair the
said capital stock, all the directors present at the making or
declaring such dividend, and consenting thereto, shall be liable,
in their individual capacities, to the company, for the amount or
proportion of the said capital stock so divided by the said direc-
tors. And each director who shall be present at the making or
declaring of such dividend, shall be deemed to have consented
thereto, unless he shall immediately enter, in writing, his dissent
on the minutes of the proceedings of the board, and give public
notice to the stockholders, that such dividend has been declared.

XIV. These articles of agreement shall be published in at
least three newspapers, printed in the city of New- York, for one
month ; and for the further information of all persons, who may
transact business with, or in any manner give credit to this com-
pany, every bond, bill, note, or other instrument or contract,
by the effect or terms of which the company may be charged or
held liable for the payment of money, shall specially declare in
such form as the board of directors shall prescribe, that payment
shall be made out of the joint funds of the Merchants' Bank, according

Mr. 45.] MERCHANTS' BANK. 843

to the present articles of association, and not otherwise • and a copy
of the eleventh article of this association shall be inserted in
the bank book of every person depositing money, or other valu-
able property, with the company for safe custody, or a printed
copy shall be delivered to every such person, before any such
deposit shall be received from him. And it is hereby expressly
declared, that no engagement can be legally made in the name
of the said company, unless it contain a limitation or restriction,
to the effect above recited. And the company hereby express-
ly disavow all responsibility, for any debt or engagement, which
may be made in their name, not containing a limitation or re-
striction to the effect aforesaid.

XV. The company shall in no case be owners of any ships
or vessels, or directly or indirectly concerned in trade, or the
importation or exportation, purchase or sale of any goods, wares,
or merchandise whatever (bullion only excepted), unless by sell-
ing such goods, wares, and merchandise, as shall be truly pledg-
ed to them, by way of security for debts due to the said com-
pany.

XVI. If a vacancy shall at any time happen among the di-
rectors, by death, resignation, or otherwise, the residue of the
directors, for the time being, shall immediately elect a director,
to fill the said vacancy, until the next election of directors, to
be made according to the second article of these presents.

XVII. This association shall continue until the first Tuesday
of June, one thousand eight hundred and fifteen, and no longer;
but the proprietors of two thirds of the capital stock of the com-
pany may, by their concurring votes, at a general meeting to be
called for that express purpose, dissolve the same at any prior
period ; provided, that notice of such meeting, and of its object,
shall be published in at least three newspapers, to be printed in
the city of New-York, for at least six months previous to the
time appointed for such meeting.

XVIII. Immediately on any dissolution of this association,
effectual measures shall be taken by the directors then existing,
for closing all the concerns of the company, and for dividing the
capital and profits, which may remain, among the stockholders,
in proportion to their respective interests.

844 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 45.

In witness thereof, we have hereunto set our names or firms
the seventh day of April, one thousand eight hundred and
three.

LAW BRIEFS.

VALIDITY OF CERTAIN BRITISH ACTS.

Question. Will the acts (particularly judgments and executions)
of courts, exercising jurisdiction under the authority of Great
Britain, subsequent to the time when by the treaty of peace the
western posts ought to have been delivered up, within the dis-
tricts comprehending those posts, be recognized as valid by the
courts of the United States?

This question is both new and difficult. The argument for
the negative is — that the treaty of peace having admitted those
territories to be within the United States, the detention of
them after the time when they ought to have been surrendered,
and all exercise of inspection over them by Great Britain after
that time, to be wrongful and unlawful; especially as not
sanctioned by the jus belli, there being a state of peace, conse-
quently the tribunals of Great Britain as illegal and incompetent,
interfering with those of the United States, and their acts as
nullities.

The argument for the affirmative is — that Great Britain
being antecedently in the possession of those posts {jure belli)
and not having actually restored them to the jurisdiction of the
United States after the peace, her anterior jurisdiction must be
supposed to have continued, and that of the United States in
virtue of territorial right, suspended by the adverse possession of
a foreign sovereign power ; that, therefore, there was no inter-
ference of jurisdiction, especially as the United States had not
within the districts in question any competent organs to exercise
jurisdiction. That the treaty of peace having only stipulated

JEt. 45.] LAW BRIEFS. 845

that the posts should be delivered up as soon as conveniently
might be, there was no judiciary epoch from which to date the
cessation of British jurisdiction and the commencement of
American.

That the wrongful detention was a question between the two
governments foreign to the fact of jurisdiction, as it respected
individuals and the effects of it. That with regard to those
who were under the coercion of the jurisdiction in fact, and
whose mutual dealings had reference to it, the legal effects'ought to
be according to the fact. That convenience and legal justice will
both be promoted by this principle and extremely infringed by
its opposite.

It is impossible to foresee with certainty what will be the de-
termination of the courts of the United States on the point ; but
it is conceived that the argument for the affirmative, on great
principles of policy, convenience and right, ought to prevail, and it
is presumed that it will.

CARRIAGE TAX.

February 25, 1795.

What is the distinction between direct and indirect taxes ? It
is a matter of regret that terms so uncertain and vague in so im-
portant a point are to be found in the Constitution. We shall
seek in vain for any antecedent settled legal meaning to the
respective terms — there is none.

We shall be as much at a loss to find any disposition of either
which can satisfactorily determine the point.

Shall we call an indirect tax, a tax which is ultimately paid
by a person, different from the one who pays it in the first instance?

Truly speaking, there is no such tax — those on imported arti-
cles best claim the character. But in many instances the mer-
chant cannot transfer the tax to the buyer ; in numerous cases it
falls on himself, partly or wholly. Besides, if the same article

846 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mi. 45.

which is imported by a merchant for sale, is imported by a mer-
chant for his ownuse, or by a lawyer, a physician, or mechanic, for
his own use, there can be no question about the transfer of the
tax. It remains upon him who pays it.

According to that rule, then, the same tax may be both a
direct and indirect tax, which is an absurdity. To urge that a
man may either buy an article already imported, or import it him-
self, amounts to nothing; sometimes he could not have that
option.

But the option of an individual cannot alter the nature of a
thing. In like manner he might avoid the tax on carriages, by
hiring occasionally instead of buying.

The subject of taxation, not the contingent optional conduct of
individuals, must be the criterion of direct or indirect taxation.
Shall it be said that an indirect tax is that of which a man is not
conscious when he pays? Neither is there any such tax. The
ignorant may not see the tax in the enhanced price of the com-
modity— but the man of reflection knows it is there. Besides,
when any but a merchant pays, as in the case of the lawyer, &c,
who imports for himself, he cannot but be conscious that it falls
upon himself.

By this rule, also, then a tax would be both direct and indirect
— and it will be equally impracticable to find any other precise
or satisfactory criterion.

In such a case no construction ought to prevail calculated to
defeat the express and necessary authority of the government.

It would be contrary to reason, and to every rule of sound
construction, to adopt a principle for regulating the exercise of a
clear constitutional power which would defeat the exercise of the
power.

It cannot be contested that a duty on carriages specifically, is
as much within the authority of the government as a duty on
lands or buildings.

Now if a duty on carriages is to be considered as a direct tax,
to be apportioned according to the rates of representation, very
absurd consequences must ensue.

'Tis possible that a particular State may have no carriages of
the description intended to be taxed, or a very small number.

^Et. 45.J LAW BRIEFS. 847

But each State would have to pay a proportion of the sum to
be laid, according to its relative numbers ; yet, while the State
would have to pay a quota, it might have no carriages upon
which its quota could be assessed, or so few, as to render it ruin-
ous to the owners to pay the tax. To consider then a duty on
carriages as a direct tax, may be to defeat the power of laying
such a duty. This is a consequence, which ought not to ensue
from construction.

Further : If the tax on carriages be a direct tax, that on
ships according to their tonnage must be so likewise. Here is
not a consumable article. Here the tax is paid by the owner of
the thing taxed, from time to time, as would be the tax on car-
riages.

If it be said that the tax is indirect because it is alternately
paid by the freighter of the vessel, the answer is, that some-
times the owner is himself the freighter, and at other times the
tonnage accrues when there is no freight, and is a dead charge on
the owner of the vessel.

Moreover, a tax on a hackney or stage-coach or other car-
riage, or on a dray or cart employed in transporting commodi-
ties for hire, would be as much a charge on the freight as a tax
upon vessels ; so that, if the latter be an indirect tax, the former
cannot be a direct tax.

And it would be too great a refinement for a rule of practice
in government to sa}r, that a tax on a hackney or stage-coach,
and upon a dray or cart, is an indirect one, and yet a tax upon a
coach or wagon ordinarily used for the purposes of its owner, is
a direct one.

The only known source of the distinction between direct and
indirect taxes is in the doctrine of the French Economists — Locke
and other speculative writers — who affirm that all taxes fall ulti-
mately upon land, and are paid out of its produce, whether laid
immediately upon itself, or upon any other thing. Hence, taxes
upon lands are in that system called direct taxes ; those on all
other articles indirect taxes.

According to this, land taxes only would be direct taxes, but
it is apparent that something more was intended by the Constitu-
tion. In one case, a capitation is spoken of as a direct tax.

848 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mr. 45.

But how is the meaning of the Constitution to be determined ?
It has been affirmed, and so it will be found, that there is no
general principle which can indicate the boundary between the
two. That boundary, then, must be fixed by a species of arbitra-
tion, and ought to be such as will involve neither absurdity nor
inconvenience.

The following are presumed to be the only direct taxes.

Capitation or Poll taxes.

Taxes on Lands and Buildings.

General assessments, whether on the whole property of indivi-
duals, or on their whole real or personal estate ; all else must of
necessity be considered as indirect taxes.

To apply a rule of apportionment according to numbers to
taxes of the above description, has some rationale in it ; but to
extend an apportionment of that kind to other cases, would, in
many instances, produce, as has been seen, preposterous conse-
quences, and would greatly embarrass the operations of the
government. Nothing could be more capricious or outre, than
the application of quotas in such cases.

The Constitution gives power to Congress to lay and collect
the taxes, duties, imports, and excises, requiring that all duties,
imports, and excises shall be uniform throughout the United
States.

Here duties, imports, and excises appear to be contradis-
tinguished from taxes, and while the latter is left to apportion-
ment, the former are enjoined to be uniform.

But unfortunately, there is equally here a want of criterion to
distinguish duties, imports, and excises from taxes.

If the meaning of the word excise is to be sought in the Bri-
tish statutes, it will be found to include the duty on carriages,
which is there considered as an excise, and then must necessarily
be uniform and liable to apportionment; consequently, not a
direct tax.

Some argument results from this, though not perhaps a con-
clusive one : yet where so important a distinction in the Con-
stitution is to be realized, it is fair to seek the meaning of terms
in the statutory language of that country from which our juris-
prudence is derived.

iEr.47.] LAW BRIEFS. 849

THE LAW OF LIBEL.

1804.

I. The liberty of the press consists in the right to publish
with impunity truth, with good motives, for justifiable ends,
though reflecting on government, magistracy, or individuals.

II. That the allowance of this right is essential to the preser-
vation of free government — the disallowance of it, fatal.

III. That its abuse is to be guarded against, by subjecting
the exercise of it to the animadversion and control of the tribu-
nals of justice ; but that this control cannot safely be intrusted
to a permanent body of magistracy, and requires the effectual
co-operation of court and jury.

IV. That to confine the jury to the mere question of publi-
cation and the application of terms, without the right of inqui-
ry into the intent or tendency, referring to the court the
exclusive right of pronouncing upon the construction, tendency,
and intent of the alleged libel, is calculated to render nugatory
the function of the jury ; enabling the court to make a libel of
any writing whatsoever, the most innocent or commendable.

V. That it is the general rule of criminal law, that the intent
constitutes the crime, and that it is equally a general rule, that
the intent, mind, or quo animo, is an inference of fact to be drawn
by the jury.

VI. That if there are exceptions to this rule, they are con-
fined to cases in which not only the principal fact, but its cir-
cumstances can be and are specifically defined by statute or judi-
cial precedent.

VII. That in respect to libel there is no such specific and
precise definition of facts and circumstances to be found, that con-
sequently it is difficult, if not impossible, to pronounce that any
writing is per se and exclusive of all circumstances libellous;
that its libellous character must depend on intent and tendency,
the one and the other being matter of fact.

VIII. That the definitions or descriptions of libels to be found
in the books predicate them upon some malicious or mischievous

G 54

850 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [tEt. 47.

intent or tendency, to expose individuals to hatred or contempt,
or to occasion a disturbance or breach of the peace.

IX. That in determining the character of a libel, the truth or
falsehood is in the nature of things a material ingredient, though
the truth may not always be decisive, but being abused, may still
admit of a malicious and mischievous intent which may consti-
tute a libel.

X. That in the Roman law, one source of the doctrine of
libel, the truth in cases interesting to the public, may be given
in evidence. That the ancient statutes probably declaratory of
the common law, make the falsehood an ingredient of the crime.
That ancient precedents in the courts of justice correspond, and
that these precedents to this day charge a malicious intent.

XI. That the doctrine of excluding the truth as immaterial,
originated in a tyrannical and polluted source, the court of Star
Chamber, and that though it prevailed a considerable length of
time, yet there are leading precedents down to the revolution,
and even since, in which a contrary practice prevailed.

XII. That this doctrince being against reason and natural
justice, and contrary to the original principles of the common
law enforced by statutory provisions, precedents which support
it deserve to be considered in no better light than as malus
usus which ought to be abolished.

XIII. That in the general distribution of powers in our sys-
tem of jurisprudence, the cognizance of law belongs to the court,
of fact to the jury ; that as often as they are not blended, the
power of the court is absolute and exclusive. That in civil cases
it is always so, and may rightfully be so exerted. That in crimi-
nal cases the law and fact being always blended, the jury, for
reasons of a political and peculiar nature, for the security of life
and liberty, is intrusted with the power of deciding both law
and fact.

XIY. That this distinction results, 1, from the ancient forms
of pleading in civil cases, none but special pleas being allowed
in matter of law ; in criminal, none but the general issue ; 2, from
the liability of the jury to attaint in civil cases, and the general
power of the court as its substitute in granting new trials, and

vEt. 47.] LANSING OR BURR. 851

from the exemption of the jury from attaint in criminal cases,
and the defect of power to control their verdicts by new trials,
the test of every legal power being its capacity to produce a defi-
nitive effect liable neither to punishment nor control.

XV. That in criminal cases, nevertheless, the court are the
constitutional advisers of the jury in matter of law; who may
compromit their consciences by lightly or rashly disregarding
that advice, but may still more compromit their consciences by
following it, if exercising their judgments with discretion and
honesty they have a clear conviction that the charge of the court
is wrong.

LANSING or BURR.

REASONS WHY IT IS DESIRABLE THAT MR. LANSING RATHER THAN
COL. BURR SHOULD SUCCEED.

1804.

1. Col. Burr has steadily pursued the tract of democratic
politics. This, he has done either from -principle, or from calcula-
tion. If the former, he is not likely now to change his plan,
when the federalists are prostrate, and their enemies predominant.
If the latter, he will certainly not at this time relinquish the
ladder of his ambition, and espouse the cause or views of the
weaker party.

2. Though detested by some of the leading Clintonians, he is
certainly not personally disagreeable to the great body of them,
and it will be no difficult task for a man of talents, intrigue, and
address, possessing the chair of government, to rally the great
body of them under his standard, and thereby to consolidate for
personal purposes, the mass of the Clintonians, his own adherents
among the democrats, and such federalists as, from personal
good- will or interested motives, may give him support.

3. The effect of his elevation will be to reunite under a more

852 HAMILTON'S WORKS. [Mt. 47.

adroit, able, and daring chief, the now scattered fragments of the
democratic party, and to reinforce it by a strong detachment
from the federalists. For though virtuous federalists, who, from
miscalculation may support him, would afterwards relinquish his
standard, a large number from various motives would continue
attached to it.

4. A farther effect of his elevation by aid of the federalists
will be, to present to the confidence of New England, a man,
already the man of the democratic leaders of that country, and
towards whom the mass of the people have no weak predilection,
as their countryman, as the grandson of President Edwards, and
the son of President Burr. In vain will certain men resist this
predilection, when it can be said, that he was chosen governor of
this State, in which he was best known, principally, or in a great
degree, by the aid of the federalists.

5. This will give him fair play to disorganize New England,
if so disposed ; a thing not very difficult, when the strength of the
democratic party in each of the New England States is con-
sidered, and the natural tendency of our civil institutions is duly
weighed.

6. The ill opinion of Jefferson, and jealousy of the ambition
of Virginia, is no inconsiderable prop of good principles in that
country. But these causes are leading to an opinion, that a dis-
memberment of the Union is expedient. It would probably suit
Mr. Burr's views to promote this result, to be the chief of the
Northern portion ; and placed at the head of the State of New-
York, no man would be more likely to succeed.

7. If he be truly, as the federalists have believed, a man of
irregular and unsatiable ambition, if his plan has been to rise to
power on the ladder of Jacobinic principles, it is natural to con-
clude that he will endeavor to fix himself in power by the same
instrument ; that he will not lean on a fallen and falling party,
generally speaking, of a character not to favor usurpation, and
the ascendency of a despotic chief. Every day shows, more and
more, the much to be regretted tendency of governments en-
tirely popular, to dissolution, and disorder. Is it rational to
expect that a man, who had the sagacity to foresee this tendency,

jEt.47.] LANSING OR BURR. 853

and whose temper would permit him to bottom his aggrandize-
ment on popular prejudices and vices, would desert the system at
a time, when, more than ever, the state of things invites him to
adhere to it.

8. If Lansing is governor, his personal character affords some
security against pernicious extremes, and at the same time ren-
ders it morally certain, that the democratic party, already much
divided, and weakened, will moulder, and break asunder more
and more. This is certainly a state of things favorable to the
future ascendency of the wise and good. May it not lead to a
recasting of parties, by which the federalists will gain a great
accession of force from former opponents ? At any rate is it not
wiser in them to promote a course of things, by which schism
among the democrats will be fostered and increased, than on
fair calculation to give them a chief, better able than any they
have yet had, to unite and direct them ; and in a situation to
infer rottenness in the only part of our country which still re-
mains sound, the federal States of New England?

CONTENTS.

Page.

Correspondence. — {See Index of Letters, I. II.) Vol. i. 1

Notes in Pay Book 4

Narrative of a Duel between Lee and Laurens 72

A Full Vindication Vol. ii. 1

The Farmer Eefuted 37

Remarks on the Quebec Bill 127

Eeorganization of the Army 139

Inspector-General 153

Publius 156

Military Remarks and Queries 164

Inspector-General 168

Mission to France 171

Military Regulations 176

Discipline 133

The Continentalist 185

Resolution for a General Convention 201

Specific Taxation 205

Resolutions in Congress {See General Index) 213

Military Peace Establishment 253

Reports in Congress 276

Vindication of Congress 283

Letters from Phocion 287

Constitution of the Bank of New-York 330

Petition as to Revenue System 333

Cincinnati ' 335

Address of the Annapolis Convention 336

Resolution for a General Convention 340

Resolution for Appointment of Delegates 340

Act to Institute an University 341

856 CONTENTS.

Speech on the Revenue System Vol. ii. 352

Act to Accede to Independence of Vermont 374

Speech on Acceding to the Independence of Vermont 375

Speech on Act repealing Acts inconsistent with the Treaty of Peace 390

Propositions for a Constitution of Government 393

Constitution of Government by the People of the United States of America 395

Brief of Speech on submitting Plan of Constitution 409

Speeches in Federal Convention 416 — 419

Impressions as to the New Constitution 419

Resolution for Erection of Kentucke into an Independent State 426

Speeches in New- York Convention on the Constitution of United States. . . 426—463

Brief of Argument on the Constitution of the United States 463

Draft of Proposed Ratification of the Constitution of the United States 467

Resolutions in Congress 471 474

Address on Election of Governor in New- York 474

Eulogium on General Nathaniel Greene 480

Report on Public Credit Vol. ill. 1

Remission of Forfeitures 46

Additional Estimates 48

State Debts 50

Operations of Impost Act 54

Tonnage Duties 80

Monet received from or paid to the States 80

Purchase of West Point 82

Disposition of Public Lands 84

Estimates 89

Renewal of final Settlement Certificates 93

Public Credit 95

National Bank 106

Estimates for 1791 146

Duties on Imports 148

Establishment of a Mint 149

Trade with India and China 188

The Dutch Loan 190

Spirits, Foreign and Domestic 192

Manufactures 192

Estimates of Receipts and Expenditures 284

Loans 286, 350, 351, 357, 368, 871, 403, 413

Spirits, Foreign and Domestic 297

Additional Supplies for 1792 826

CONTENTS. S57

Page.

„ . . „t. .. Vol. iii. 337

Report on Remission of Duties

Public Debt

Bank Deposits, Surplus Revenue and Loans

, ... 411

Public Funds

„ 441,442

Spirits, Domestic

Balance in the Treasury, and Domestic Loans

Public Debt, Receipts, and Expenditures

448, 451

Loan
Public Credit
Improvement of the Revenue

... 537

Revenue Circulars
Reports on Claims

Cabinet Papers, vol. iv. 1-604, vol. v. l-S0.-(See Index or Letters I. II.)

^ • , t> w .... Vol. v. 80

Speech on Commercial Relations

Act to punish Certain Crimes
Act laying duties upon Carriages

Act as to Calling forth Militia

Remarks on the Treaty with Great Britain

r r, t \ . 137— 43S

Military Papers.— {See General Index.)

Correspondence.-^ Index of Letters I. II.) 439 to end ; vol. vi. 1-600

„_ „ Vol. vi. 600

Letters of H. G

, -,. 632

Address to Public Creditors
Funding System V indicated '
Anti-Defamer

Vol. vii. 1

An American
Civis
Fact

Amicus

... 34

Catullus

... 74

A Plain Honest Man
Observer
Paciflcus
No Jacobin
Reply of Washington

... 141

Americanus
Tullv
Horatius
Camillus
Explanation
Washington's Speech. draft

858 CONTENTS.

Page.

Message for Washington — draft Vol. vii. 556

Abstract of Points to form an Address 570

Farewell Address — draft 575

France 594

The Answer 600

Part of Washington's Speech to Congress 611

The Warning 616

The Stand 639

A French Faction 682

The War in Europe 688

Allegorical Device 685

Public Conduct and Character of John Adams 687

Address to the Electors of the State of New- York 728

The Examination 744

Resolutions for the Amendment of the Constitution 836

Memorial for supplying New-York with Water 837

Plan of the Merchants' Bank 838

Brief on Validity of certain British Acts 844

Brief on the Carriage Tax 845

Brief on the Law of Libel 849

Lansing or Burr , £>51

1 N 1) EX

OF

LETTERS FROM HAMILTON.
No. I.

A.

Adams, John, iv. 245; v. 359, 430; vi. 449, 470.
Adluin, Major, v. 268.
Auldjo, i. 439.

B.

Bayard, J. A., vi. 419, 451, 499, 540.
Bayard, Low & Boudinot, v. 471.
Bond, vi. 152.

Boston, Supervisors of, iv. 166.
Boudinot, Elisha, v. 514, 517, 518; vi. 138.
Broome, Samuel, i. 469.

c.

Zl'oI^X 287, 291, 331, 366, 368, 396, 404 ; vi. 561, 562, 564, 565.
Chipman, Nathaniel, i. 46. ,477.
Church, J. B., i. 414.

Clarkson, Matthew, v. 279. conmHtee of Congress of TJ. S.

Congress, provincial of Tsew-torK, i. i, J, ^,
512, 513; President of, i. 34, 35, 36, 76, 413.
Convention of New-York, i. 10.
County Treasurers, i. 292, 304.
Craig, v. 12, 15.
Cruger, Tileman, i. 2.

D

Dayton, Jonathan, vi. 335, 383.
De Chastellux, i. 419.
De Noailles, i. 314 ; v. 422, 427.
De Ternay, i. 140.
Duportail, vi. 328.

860 INDEX OF LETTERS

Duane, James, i. 82, 85, 87, 92, 137, 150, 170, 190.
Duer, William, i. 25, 56; iv. 147; v. 444, 478, 489, 506.

Ellery, Captain, v. 264.
Fitzsimmons. i. 416.

Gates, Horatio, i. 43, 49.

Georgia, Governor of, v. 33.

Goodhue, Benjamin, iv. 79 ; v. 470.

Greenleaf, vi. 142.

Greene, Nathaniel, i. 185, 318.

Greene, Mrs., v. 583.

Gunn, James, v. 180, 184.

Hamilton, A., vi. 243.

Hamilton, Eliza, i. 266, 268, 269, 396.

Hamtranek, v. 257, 266.

Harison, Richard, v. 503, 542.
Harrison, K. E., v. 446.
Hazard, Nathaniel, i. 430.
Hay, Col., i. 290.
Heth, Col.,, v. 512.
Hoffman, Josiah O., vi. 413.
Hoops, Major, v. 269.

E.
P.
G.

H.

J.

Jay, John,iv. 551, 564; v. 142, 150, 291, 522; vi 92 281 4-«
•' erxerson, Thomas iv oq or oq i« , -, ' ' °'

422, 490 ' ' ' 98' 141' l01' 155' 162' 170> 185> "<>, 240, 332, 391, 394, 410,

K.
"V2f e^fl \XT£ ft 5J J? 55°' 562' 569> 5U> ^ ™> «* ^

. 298,' 347,' 362/415, 546', 559 ' ' ^ ^ 106' 108' 1M> 187> 206> 236' 252, m[ 287,'
Knox, Henry, vi. 403.
Knox, Hugh, i. 31.

La Fayette, i. 62, 270, 320 ; v. 440 ; vi. 388

Latour, Du Pin, vi. 363.

Laurens, John, i. 109, 172.

Lear, Tobias, vi. 415.

Lee, Henry, i. 79; v. 38, 446 ; vi. 431.

Lincoln, iv. 75.

Livingston, E. E., i. 23; vi. 586, 594, 597

Livingston, William, i. 47i.

FROM HAMILTON. &61

M.

Q.

Madison James, i. 393, 395, 450, 451, 453, 454, 459, 460, 462, 463, 464, 469, 483

McH nry J™ v 138, 141, 152, 180, 186, 190, 194, 196, 209, 211, 215, 234, 235, 236,

ST'i 2 5, 256, 259, 261, 263, 271, 272, 275, 278, 279, 233, 284, 286,
S 292; 297; 299 300 808 306; 308, 320, 326, 331, 334, 341 345 847 355, 356, 360

371, 378, 384, 385, 386, 392, 396, 397, 401, 402, 409, 423, 429, 435, 43, ; v,. 127, 267,

285, 338, 340, 354, 355.
McPherson, v. 185, 262.
Meade, i. 275, 298.
Mifflin, Thomas, iv. 1S3; v. 1, 16.
Miranda, vi. 348.

S":-S^, m i w. eoe ; vi. «, m, *, «, m, m, m, m, k

568, 570, 572, 574, 575, 577, 579, 531, 583, 589, 592.
MorHs! Eobert, i. 116, 223, 279, 281, 236, 287, 293, 297, 302, 304, 306, 307, 309, 311, 319.

N.

New-York, Bank of, v. 503.
Newton, William, i. 3.
North, William, v. 391.

Ogden, Col., v. 416.
Olney, Jeremiah, v. 588.
Otis, H. G., vi. 379, 390.

P.

, . m- li • on/.. ,.; an ins on*. 213 216 226,246,249,264,269,271,278,
Pickering, Timothy, i. 306 ; vi. 80, 198, mo, -Ji<5, ^xo> — «> - 'i ' '

299, 326, 355, 395, 407, 435, 477, 556.

Pinckney, C. C, v. 232, 388, 404, 415, 427, 532 ; vi. 434, 551.

Pintard, John, v. 469.

R.

Randolph, Edmund, iv. 544, 571 ; v. 29.

Eeade, Col., v. 370.

Eeed, i. 374.

Eivardi, Major, v. 222, 434.

Bush, Richard, vi. 527.

s.

Sands, Comfort, i. 282.

Schuyler, Eliza, i. 169, 186, 137.

Schuyler, Philip, i. 211.

Sears, Isaac, i. 189.

Sedgewick, Theodore, i. 476, 481, 486, 49«» ; v. 215. 024 : vi. 193, 209, 354, 381, 397, 429.

436, 440, 441, 495, 521. 567.
Seton, William, iv. 93 ; v. 403, 477, 486, 491, 498, 501, 502, 503, 508, 520.
Short, William, iv. 5, 22, 37, 38, 152, 157,158, 162, 163,163, 170, 176, 180, 181, 185, 1 6,

188, 193, 194, 216, 217, 219, 221, 223, 225, 226, 239, 279, 283, 307, 319, 320, 331, 388,

337, 338, 345, 405.

862 INDEX OF LETTERS.

Smith, Col., v. 295, 371, 304, 426.

Smith, William, vi. 92, 189, 192, 234, 237, 432.

Speaker of House of Representatives, iv. 49 ; v. 56.

Steele, v. 583.

Stevens, Ebenezer, v. 260, 291 .

Stevens, Edward, i. 1.

Steuben, Baron de, i. 72, 78, 84, 136, 139, 142, 143.

Stoddert, v. 290 ; vi. 336.

Stuyvesant, P. G., vi. 567.

Sullivan, Gen., i. 60.

Swan, Caleb, v. 836, 482 ; vi. 42s.

T.

Talleyrand, vi. 566.
Toussard, Colonel, v. 309, 393.

VanSchaack, v. 506.
Verplanck, v. 491.

w.

Wadswortk, i. 440 ; v. 584.
Walbach, v. 248.

Washington, George, i. 39, 41, 45, 48, 51, 63, 64, 65, 67, 102, 132, 139, 200, 220 258 267
273, 274, 327, 342, 345, 34S, 349, 351, 355, 359, 402, 403, 428, 435, 444, 448, 47o' 473' 487 '
iv. 1, 6, 13, 23, 30, 32, 37,46, 47, 48, 71, 72, 73, 77, 81, 84, 93, 94, 95, 108,' 104,' 148^
1 49, 150, 154, 161, 167, 174, 175, 177, 188, 193, 206, 217, 220, 222, 226, 235, 289 242
247, 282, 284, 287, 291,303, 306, 315, 319, 328, 332, 337, 347, 355, 356, 362, 3S2, 392
894,406,411,414,417,419,420,425,426,436, 443, 448, 449, 460, 467,477,481 48s'
489,491,497,506,509,510,516,519,532,533,534, 536, 540, 546,547, 557, 560, 561
562, 564, 566, 568, 569, 573, 575, 599, 600 ; v. 11, 13, 14, 30, 43, 45, 46, 48, 50, 51, 52, 53,
55, 56, 60, 63, 65, 67, 69,70, 73,75, 77, 142, 154, 177, 213, 214, 215, 233, 239 240 253*
267, 270, 302, 310, 387, 353, 374, 467, 480, 633; vi. 47, 49. 61, 79, 82, 84, 85 86 9o'
95, 96,97,100, 101,102, 119, 122,128, 133, 161. 163. 167. 168, 177. 194 264 289 W
316, 331, 341,361, 3C5,414.
Washington, Mrs., vi. 418.
Wilkes, John, i. 424.
Wilkinson, James, v. 211, 247, 361.
Willink & Co., iv. 12, 173, 1*7, 346, 466 ; v. 66, 73.
Winn, iv. 69.

Wolcott, Oliver, v. 296, 626 ; vi. 9, 11, 23, 29, 40, 48, 50, 57, 64, 107, 127, 129, 131, 185
143, 155, 156, 161, 165, 179, 184, 218, 229, 238, 252, 259, 294, 307, 334, 349, 381, 404 432'
414, 449, 486, 487, 549.

INDEX

LETTERS TO HAMILTON

NO. II.

A

Adams, John, i. 424 ; v. 140, 285, 430, 435.

Adams, John Q., v. 58.

Affleck, W., v. 585.

Ames, Fisher, v. 473, 510, 581 ; vi. 198, 4C3.

B.

Bard, William, v. 540.

Bauman, S., i. 144.

Bayard, J. A., vi. 455, 505, 522, 530, 543.

Bird, Savage & Bird, v. 79.

Boudinot, v. 519, 525, 548.

Bradford, William, vi. 1.

C

Cabot, George, v. 486, 547 ; vi. 453, 458, 460, 476, 480.

Garrington, Edward, v. 544, 549, 555, 598, 606, 614, 617.

Carroll, Charles, v. 537 ; vi. 434, 467.

Carter, John, i. 261.

Chipman, Nathaniel, i. 466, 472.

Church, J. B., vi. 261.

Clarkson, Matthew, v. 64.

Clinton, George, i. 55, 295, 303, 324, 338 ; vi. 561, 563.

Constable, William, vi. 524.

Convention of New-York, i. 12, 15, 19, 22.

Corbin, Thomas, v. 604.

Coxe, Tenche, v. 455, 456,457, 513.

Cashing, Dana & Brcck, i. 432.

864 INDEX OF LETTERS

r>

Davie, v. 483.

Dayton, Jonathan, v. 521 ; vi. 83.

De Corny, i. 197.

Delany, v. 622.

De Marbois, i. 147.

De Noailles, i. 260.

Duane, James, i. 83, 86, 89, 90, 329, 399.

Duportail, i. 108, 133, 198.

Duplessis, i. 75.

Fitzgerald, v. 485.
Fitzsimmons, iv. 82.
Fleury, L., i. 81, 172.
Fry, John, v. 4S1.

F.

(I.

Goodhue, vi. 478.

Gore, C, v. 631.

Greanleaf, James, vi. 141.

Greene, Nathaniel, i. 203.

Greene, Mrs., v. 563.

Guun, James, v. 182, 195 ; vi. 483, 492, 508.

H.

Hamilton, A., vi. 371.

Hamilton, James, v. 567.

Hamtranck, v. 197.

Harper, E. G., vi. 282.

Harrison, Eobt. II., i. 192, 215.

Hawkins, v. 464.

Heth, Col., v. 596.

Higginson, Stephen, v. 570, 577, 595, 599, 603; vi. 18?, 191.

Humphreys, D., i. 442.

I.

Indians, Oneida, v. 591.

J.

Jackson, "W., vi. 532.

Jay, John, i. 61, 400; iv. 574; v. 12, 27, 28, 54, 151, 524, 541, 552; vi. 87, 280 281 369

462,466,469,526,598. '

Jefferson, Thomas, iv. 23, 96, 144, 148, 1S9, 215, 354, 474.
Johnson, W. S., v. 531.

K.

King, Rufus, i. 456 ; y. 516, 526, 530, 553, 572, 589, 630 ; vi. 77, 102, 112 113 146 150
151, 183, 207, 211, 227, 260, 262, 265, 283, 297, 300, 308, 311, 313, 314, 356, 359' m
37o, 3(6, 389, 402, 407, 410, 411, 527, 538.

Knox, Hugh, i. 24, 52.

TO HAMILTON. 865

La Fayette, i. 63, 194, 196, 199, 217, 219, 262, 277, 283, 325, 421, 422, 423, 432, 445 ; vi.

425, 430, 555.
Lauzun, Duke de, i. 215.
Laurens, Henry, i. 80.
Laurens, John, i. 68, 111, 113, 114, 214.
Lear, Tobias, vi. 424, 425.

i£££r££#k «.i *• «». «* 6«- «•. •»■ «• 621 ' ri- 48°-

Lincoln, Benjamin, V. 454, 460 ; vi. 23.
Livingston, K. K., i. 14.

M.

tSZSZXSi £ 3U -. -, «, wj -.»■-•« 252- M4' 276'

282, 388, 400, 401, 403, 444, 462, 536, 623 ; vi. 250, 282, 3o6, 374, 408, 479.
McKenzie, v. 611.
McPherson, v. 237. -

Madison, James, i. 409, 457, 458, 461, 462, 463, 465 ; vi. 524.
Meade, E. K., i. 207.
Miranda, v. 465 ; vi. 225.
Mitchell, John, i. 100.

E£££2£~ «,«,»; iv. «.; v. m, m, 538,539> w, 5Sr ; vi. m,m.

503, 517, 518, 528.
Morris, Robert, i. 264, 278, 280, 284, 299, 312.
Murray, Vans, vi. 476.

N.

North, William, v. 415.

0.

Olney, Jeremiah, i. 484.
Otis, H. G., vi. 377, 490.

P.

Page, v. 497.
Paterson, John, v. 459.

SSSJ'm i. «• i * •». w, »* «.«* ™. «. »■ 2'3' 279' S08' 325' S2r'

343, 350, 351, 398, 443, 484, 558.
Pinckney, C. C, v. 357, 421 ; vi. 545, 554.
Pinckney, Thomas, v. 543.

R

Randolph, Edmund, iv. 288, 487 ; v. 623 ; vi. 22, 31.
Rice, Col., v. 419.
Ross, David, v. 592.
Rutledge, Edward, vi. 2.
Rutledge, John, vi. 509.

G 55

866 INDEX OF LETTERS.

S.

Schuyler, Philip, i. 136, 169, 1S2, 1S3, 1S8, 191, 209, 210, 222, 265, 270; v. 492, 590;

vi. 212.
Sedgewick, Theodore, i. 482, 483; v. 216, 580; vi. 392,396, 399, 437, 442, 491, 511, 552.
Seton, William, i. 416 ; v. 463, 4S0, 500, 505, 509, 511, 512.
Short, Wm, iv. 7, 9, 86, 99, 138, 164, 177, 180.
Smith, E. II., vi. 268.
Smith, Col., v. 394, 412.
Smith. William, vi. 241.
St. Clair, v. 613 ; vi. 403.
Steele, v. 561.

Steuben, Baron de, i. 83, 475 ; vi. 405.
Stevens, Edward, vi. 115.
Stirling, Lord, i. 21.
Stoddert, v. 209 ; vi. 353.

T.

Talleyrand, vi. 170.
Ternant, iv. 174, 382.
Tilghman, i. 219.
Tracy, Uriah, vi. 286.
Truxton, vi. 533.

V.

Van Eensselaer, vi. 404.
Van Vechteu, vi. 525.
Varick, Eichard, v. 633.
Verplanck, v. 490.

w.

Wadsworth, Jeremiah, i. 440 ; v. 447, 586.

Washington, Bushrod, vi. 526.

Washington, George, i. 37, 52, 62, 95, 97, 101, 106, 107, 193, 195, 202, 221, 339, 343, 352,
353, 361, 363, 410, 412, 429, 437, 447, 449, 479, 485, 490 ; iv. 4, 35, 70, 75, 76, 94, 103,
145, 146, 156,159,168, 175, 17S, 180,230, 238, 241, 280,284, 286, 312, 313, 314, 333,
341, 857, 359, 392,435,44S, 453, 454, 455, 464, 465, 471, 473, 475, 476, 515, 516, 534,
589, 543, 547, 562, 566, 570, 572 ; v. 11, 15, 27, 42, 44, 47, 49, 74, 143, 148, 217, 237,
245, 266, 274, 277, 316, 339, 35S, 387, 439, 593 ; vi. 12, 14, 16, 19, 25, 28, 03, 35, 51, 52,
63,64,70,71,73,78,99,116,120,135,144,147, 149, 156, 160, 171,178,196,263,260,
290,322, 336,369,400,401.

Walterstoff, vi. 556.

Watson, James, v. 495 ; vi. 126.

Wheelock, John, v. 458.

Williams, vi. 258.

Williams, O. H., i. 148.

Williamson, IE, v. 594.

Willinck, vi. 4.

Willing, v. 76.

Wilkes, John, i. 427.

Witherspoon, v. 442.

Wolcott, Oliver, iv. 223 ; vi. 7, 15, 20, 24, 27, 30, 39, 41, 57, 59, 65, 74, 83, 110, 126, 129, 132,
154, 164, 173, 175, 185, 221, 237, 278, 358, 365, 379,406, 447, 470, 471, 498.

Woolsey, vi. 525.

INDEX OF LETTERS

No. III.

"Washington to Count D'Estaing, vol. i. 93.

Clinton to Duane and L'Hommedieu, i. 398.

Jefferson to Washington, iv. 35.

Washington to President of National Assembly, iv. 101.

Knox to Washington, iv. 196, 459.

Jefferson to Washington, iv. 197, 293, 314, 334, 401, 412, 415, 419, 430, 458.

Randolph to Washington, iv. 209, 344, 403, 455.

Jefferson to Ternaut, iv. 240.

Washington to Governors of Pennsylvania and North and South Carolina, iv. 318.

Substance of answer proposed to French Minister, iv. 353.

Washington to Jefferson, iv. 429.

Washington to Justices of Supreme Court of United States, iv. 449.

Washington to Heads of Departments, iv. 454.

Jefferson to Genet, iv. 490.

Wolcott to Wilkes, vi. 37.

McHenry to Washington, vi. 143.

Washington to McHenry, vi. 154, 165.

Adams to McHenry, vi. 285, 283.

GENERAL INDEX.

N1_ VnrO \^ A

Academies, ii. 344.

Academy, Military/i. 262 ; v. 373, 387 ; vi. 295 ; vn. 612, 613, 686.

Accounts wITII States, i. 337, 347, 350 ; auditor of, ii. 148, 236 ; m Irregular settle-

ments of, not to be disturbed, i. 580 ; adjustment of, v. 397, 409 423.
Adams, Jon* as v. p. i. 481, 482 ; opinions and writings, 482, 483 4 7 439 cha ac r
v. 217 ; election, 526, 533, 534 ; vi. 186, 191, 206, 213, 251, 294 ,817 359 8bS,
413 436, 437, 440, 441, 444, 446, 448, 449, 452, 454, 456, 458, 459, 460, 461, 463, 464,
465, 471, 472, 474, 475, 477, 479, 480, 431, 482, 483, 522 ; vii. 175, 380 ; public con-
duct examined, 687 to 727 ; letters to, 726, 727-
Adams, Fort, v. 366.
Address on New- York Election, ii. 474.

to Public Creditors, vi. 632.

, answer to, vi. 35 ; valedictory, see Farewell Address.

Ade. succeeds Fauchet as Minxster erom France vi 1 ; bis powers 41 42, 72 129,
130, 132, 134; publisbed letter, 156, 157 ; conduct to, 159, 160, 161, 163, 169, 175,
17s', 179, 180, 197, 207; vii. 599, 602.
Adjutant General, v. 264. „„„„„ rcn

Administrate, objections to, iv. 231 ; answered, 248, 294 808 ; of £ibho money M0,
562 ; measures of, vi. 222, 227 ; policy, 236, 248, 250, 253, 255, 270, 2, 3, 277 , mea,
ures advised, 295 ; member of, bis duty, vii. 61, 62, 63.
Advances, to Army, v. 334; by Treasury, vi. 59 60. __
Agriculture, promotion of, iii. 5; vi. 158; board of, vn. 611, 61-
Aids de Camp, v. 169, 170, 229.
Algiers, iv. 215 ; vi. 55, 131, 212.
Alien Bill, vi. 300, 303.
Allegiance, ii. 47.

Alleghany, insurrection in, v. 2, 39.

Allowances, extra, wben proper, v. 152, 153, 306, 357, 396, 432.

Ambassador, power to send home, vn. 500. .... , ._ „,9 . lib„

America, independence, ii. 10 ; courage, 67, 88, 105 ; population, 117 , duty, 3-9 , liber

ties of, vi. 587.
America, South. See South America.
Amsterdam, iv. 7.

Andre, Major, capture and execution, i. 173, 179, 187.
Animals, live, v. 88.

870 GENERAL INDEX.

Appropriations, vii. 530, 532 ; laws, 533, 786, 788, 790.

Army, of revolution — composition, i. 58, 155 ; raise for war, 159; supply, 160; half-pay
to, 160, 321 ; claims, 328 ; discontents, 341, 343; addresses to, 344; accounts, 347, 348,
849, 351, 354, 355, 361, 364, 384; reorganization, ii. 139, 145; position, 150; recruit-
ing, 164 ; supplies, 166 ; ordnance, clothing, 166 ; regulations, 176 ; servants, 177 ;
arms, 177; guards, 177; dragoons, 182 ; furloughs, 185; memorial, 229 ; pay, half-
pay, accounts, 229 ; rights, 230 ; pay, 234 ; patriot, 237 ; accounts, 238 ; invalids,
246 ; discharge, 250 ; land, 251 ; peace establishment, 253, 256 ; fortifications,
255, 260 ; rations, 259 ; pay, 259 ; forage, 260 ; clothing, 260 ; arsenals, magazines,
261 ; foundries, arms, 262 ; officers, 262 ; board of, 266 ; promotions, 267 ; necessity
of, 268 ; mutiny, 268, 276, 279 ; standing, 50 ; supplies, regulation, iv. 226, 242 ;
claims, v. 512; station, 146, 159; supplies, 146, 155; augmentation, 156; western,
160; supplies, 162; deportment of, 162; organization, 166; disposition, 179; in-
crease, 184; supplies,! 84; provisional, 185, 189, 190, 195; command, 196 ; stations,
199 ; commands, 202, 205, 211, 213; act better organizing, 223, 227; disposition, 311,
816 ; distribution, 345, 347, 352, 355, 358, 362, 402, 406 ; disbanded, 437 ; address to,
437 ; vi. 56 ; provisional, 214, 240, 243, 282, 295, 305, 317, 378, 380, 386, 393, 408 ; re-
view of establishment urged, vii. 553 ; increase of, 686, 739.

Arnold, Mr., i. 342.

Arnold, Gen., treason, i. 172, 181, 202; in Virginia, 20S.

Articles or War, v. 392.

Artillery, ii. 148, 256; v. 147; park, 149, 160, 166, 169, 174; stations, 178, 206, 223, 251,
269 ; organization, 280 ; regulations, 393, 405.

Arts and Sciences, academy of, v. 479.

Arsenals, v. 164, 323.

Assays, iv. 93.

Assembly, ii. 395, 396 ; persons eligible, 466.

Assumption of State Debts, iii. 43 ; amount, 96 ; further and general, 291 ; iv. 277 ; v
455, 457, 547.

Attorney General, iv. 4; views of constitution, iii. 117.

Auction, sales at, iii. 52.

Auldjo, i. 43.S, 439.

Austria, vi. 211, 315, 375, 376, 407, 408; vii. 112.

B.

Baoite, v. 50, 51.

Bank, i. national, plan, 125, 127, 131, 164, 165, 236 to 317, 414; of New-York, 415; in

Pennsylvania, 415, 416, 419; national, ii. 194; of New- York, 330; national, iii. 40;

notes, 69, 70, 105 ; report on, 106 ; advantages, 108, 110, 111 ; disadvantages, 112 ;

capital, 115, 119, 120; banks three, 125; direction of, 129, 136; organization, 132;

stock, 137; loans, 138; debts, 143; deposits, 352, 353; public benefits, 433; notes,

540; iv. 93, 103; constitutionality, 104, 124, 127 to 184; of New- York, v. 37, 76,

463; national, 478, 475; branch, 485, 486, 562; vi. 9; vii. 371, 372, 374; merchants,

plan of, vii. 838, 844.
Barracks, v. 308.
Barras, vi. 231.
Barre, Col., ii. 93.
Battle, order of, v. 414, 421, 427.
Bauman, S., i. 144; condition of West Point.
Batard, Willlam, vi. 363.

GENERAL INDEX. S?1

Beaumarchais, claim, vi. 170, 171.

Beck, i. 402.

Beckwith, Major, mission, iv. 30, 32, 33, 34.

Bellamy, vi. 314.

Berxadotte, vi. 555.

Bern*torf, Count, vi, 556.

Blanchard, v. 497, 525.

Blount, Gov., v. 13, 36.

Bohlman, Dr., vi. 85, 118.

Buonaparte, vi. 209, 302, 308, 311, 313, 315, 360, 375, 377, 412, 426, 427, 435,439, 453,

469, 476.

Bond, memorial, vi. 110.

Bonds, form of returns, iii. 551, 553, 555.

Books, printed, iii. 279.

Boston, act closing port, ii. 94, 100.

Bradford, v. 43.

Breckenridge, v. 51.

Brest Fleet, v. 271.

British army, disposition and numbers, vi. 590, 593 ; connection, i. 346 ; creditors,
compensation, vii. 284, 286, 287, 289 ; plan of, 290, 291, 292 ; suits by, 293 ; interest,
294; faction, vi. 449; posts, i. 359, 360; titles to lands, vii. 315, 316, 317, 318, 319,
321, 324, 325.

Burcoyne, i. 30, 32 ; vi. 591, 594, 595, 597.

Burke, ii. 93.

Burr, Aaron, v. 493, 494, 496, 497, 526, 527, 529, 532, 535, 537; vi. 419, 420, 421, 422,
423, 445, 453, 467, 483, 486, 487, 488, 489, 490, 491, 492, 494, 495, 497, 498, 499, 500,
502,' 506, 507, 508, 509, 510, 512, 513, 517, 520, 521, 523, 524, 537, 539, 548, 559, 560;
vii. 851.

Butler, Major, v. 11.

c.

Cabot, George, vi. 51, 209, 214, 223, 230, 235.

Cadwallader, ii. 155.

Call for Papers, vi. 90, 91, 94, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 271.

Calm Observer, vi. 49, 50, 57, 64.

Calonne, i. 433, 434.

Cambauld, vi. 288, 298, 301, 304.

Camillus on British Treaty, vi. 26 ; vii. 473 to 556.

Canada, ii. 6, 17, 18, 19, 109, 127, 128 ; vii. 226, 229, 233, 258, 259, 267, 26*, 278.

Canton, vii. 413.

Canvassers, New-York, v. 515, 517.

Captures and Condemnations, compensation, vii. 295 ; how made, 296, 299, 301 to 311 ;

treaty regulation, 441, 446.
Carleton, Guy, i. 371 ; iv. 77 ; vi. 573.
Carolina, Noinn, ii. 77, 93, adopts constitution ; iv. 6, 15; discontents, 293 ; resolutions,

v. 13, 439 ; instructions, 464; paper money, 4S3; South, v. 37; act of, suspending

British debts, 117; vii. 200.
Carriages, duties on, iii. 52, 535 ; act imposing, v. 99 ; constitutionality, vi. 83 ; nature

of, vii. 845. t

Caerlngton, Edward, i. 133 ; v. 68, 302 ; vi. 68, 438.
Carroll, Charles, v. 536 ; vi. 479.

872 GENERAL INDEX.

Carter, John, i. 261.

Catherine, brigantine, iv. 425.

Cavalry, ii. 144, 257, 264 ; v. 223, 248, 275, 276 278, 282, 284 ; vi. 249.

Cazenove, vi. 7.

Census, ii. 225, 241.

Certificates cancelled, of registry and enrollments, iii. 552 ; renewal, 582, 583.

Charles First, ii. 71, 74 ; Second, 79.

Charlestown, resolutions of, vi. 292.

Charters, ii. 3, 4, 47, 66, 122.

China, iii. 188, 189.

Chipman, Nathaniel, i. 466, 472, 477.

Christianity, ii. 65; vii. 650, 651, 684.

Church, Philip, v. 138.

Cincinnati, i. 428, 429 ; constitution of, ii. 335 ; primogeniture, 336 ; vi. 532.

Circulating Medium, paper, i. 313, 314, 319.

Citizens, mutual rights of, ii. 408; protection, 418.

Crvn, War, vii. 167.

Clarke, Gen., v. 36.

Clarkson, Col., i. 419 ; v. 63, 64, 150.

Clinton, George, i. 47, 48, 55, 444, 447 ; opposition to constitution, 453 ; political char-
acter and conduct, ii. 475; iv. 245, 424; v. 464, 493, 514, 527, 528, 530, 532, 535; vi.
66, 522 ; career, military and political, 601 to 632; vii. 175, 740, 741, 743.

Clinton, Henry, Sir, i. 86, 316.

Clothing, v.- 149, 172, 231, 254, 279.

Coal, iii. 264.

Cochrane, vi. 299.

Cockade, v. 150.

Coffee, iii. 38.

Coinage, i. 419, 420 ; foreign, iv. 162, 326.

Colonies, American, population, ii. 11, 15, 45, 46, 102 ; French, vi. 296.

Colonization, vii. 383 ; trade monopoly, 384, 385.

Collectors, iii. 63.

Colleges, ii. 343 ; Columbia, 345 ; vi. 451.

Commander in Chief, vi. 290, 293, 309, 316, 354, 355, 365, 369, 417.

Commerce, internal, ii. 112, 222 ; iv. 97, 98 ; power over, 121 ; v. 81, 92, 94 ; vi. 599 ;
free, vii. 378 ; rights of imperfect, 378 ; state regulations, 380 ; West India, 401 ;
East India, 409 ; European, 420, 422, 423, 425, 426, 427, 429, 431 ; reciprocity, 440.

Commissariat, v. 236, 242.

Commission, return of, iv. 69 ; to France, vi. 397, 400.

Commissioners of Accounts, iii. 17.

Comptroller, v. 68, 78.

Confederation, defects of, i. 150: reform of, i. 353, 401, 406; ii. 190, 219 ; defects, 269
to 274, 410, 428, 430, 432, 444.

Confiscation prohibited, vii. 326, 331, 338, 340, 341, 342, 343 ; when rightful, 352 ; effect
of, 357, 363, 376.

Congress, powers of, i. 151, 158, 323, 324, 325, 333, 353 ; removal of, 381, 393, 410 ; resi-
dence, 411 ; adjourn, 412; ii. 1, 4, 5, 7, 13, 21, 23, 27, 29, 31, 40, 101, 153, 161, 163 ;
its officers, 200 ; powers of, 203, 267 ; vindication, 283 ; powers of, 356 ; convening,
iv. 455, 458, 459, 460;#meeting of, 476, 477, 481 ; character, vi. 202, 203, 214, 215,
288, 357, 362, 384, 416, 429.

GENERAL INDEX,
Connecticut, ii. 75, 147, 235.
Consolidation, v. 455.

Constitution of U. S., formation of, i. 157, 158, 444 ; prospects, 447, 448, 450 ; amend-
ments to, 465 ; adoption by New Hampshire and Virginia, 462 ; ratification condi-
tional, 464, 465 ; creature of people, ii. 319, 322, 356 ; propositions for, 393 ; plan
of, 395 ; amendments to, 409 ; ratifications of, 409 ; prospects, 419 ; opposition to,
422 ; defence, 426 ; nature, 463 ; powers, 466 ; advantages, miscellaneous, 466 ; ra-
tification, draft of, 467 ; amendments to, time of electing officers, 471, 472 ; iv. 6,
18; powers, 105, 106, 107, 112, 135; construction of, 278, 298, 312, 313; v. 1, 4;
power over militia, 23, 24, 25, 26 ; amendments, v. 445, 470 ; vi^ 526, 531, 536, 537,
539, 542, 557 ; vii. 8, 9; Jefferson's opposition to, 39, 54, 55, 56; executive power^
80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 157, 158 ; policy of opponents, i58, 159 to 166 ; violation of, 287,
328, 380, 435 ; treaty power, 502. 504, 505, 517, 518, 527 ; appropriations, 532, 559,
563 ; opposition to, 728, 733, 741 ; Judiciary, 767, 792, 794, 797, 799, 803, 809, 810,
814, 819, 820, 824, 828.
Constitution of New-York, v. 515.
Constellation, vi. 376.

Consuls, iv. 184, 332 ; American, vi. 127 ; vii. 441.

Contraband, vii. 468, 469 to 481 ; provisions, 483, 484, 607, 608, 666, 667.
Convention to form a Constitution, i. 157 ; writings to induce, 167 ; of public creditors,
311 ; at Annapolis, 432, 435, 442 ; General, resolutions for, ii. 201, 204 ; call of, 269,
275; address of Annapolis, 336; New- York resolutions for, 340; propositions in,
393 ; New York, 426.
Convoys, vi. 131.
Copper, manufactures of, iii. 263.

Cotton, ii. 113; iii. 243; manufacture of, 272, 273; duty on, 275 ; iv. 179 ; vii. 403.
Cornwallis, i. 149 ; vi. 312, 585.

Correspondence with France, disclosing to Senate, iv. 505, 539.
Corporations, nature and creation, iv. 106, 108, 113, 115, 116, 117,123.
Countervailing right, vii. 432.
Courts Martial, v. 392.
Coxe, Tenche, v. 78.
Craig, Doctor, vi. 311.

Crimes, trial by Jury, ii. 404 ; act to punish, v. 95.
Cruger, Nicholas, i. 2.
Currency, depreciation of, i. 31, 72, 166, 172.
Cusuing, i. 432.

Cutters, Eevence, iii. 61, 62, 538, 550, 554; iv. 46, 70, 72.
Cutting, William, vi. 80, 82.

D.

Dale, v. 209.

Dallas, v. 526, 528, 574, 576, 589 ; vi. 39, 406.

Dana, i. 432.

Danbury, expedition to, vi. 577.

Dartmouth College, v. 458.

D'Autun, Bishop of, iv. 23.

Dayton, vi. 327, 365.

Deane, i. 358.

Debate, open, ii. 237.

8*74 GENERAL INDEX.

TJebts, funding, i. 347, 350 ; ii. 175, 212, 220 ; interest, 223, 230 ; liquidate and pay, 232 ;
amount of, 240 ; foreign, 367 ; iii. 4, 6 ; foreign, 7 ; liquidated, 18 ; loan office,
19 ; domestic, 20, 21, 22, 31 ; extinguishment of, 41 ; interest, 44 ; certificates, re-
newal, 93 ; amount subscribed, 286; foreign officers, 294; redemption, 338, 341,
446 ; provisions for funding, 464 ; for reimbursing and redeeming, 470 ; statement,
477 ; definition of, 517 ; composition with a debtor, 5S6; iv. 9, 10, 12, 20; payment
of, 39 ; foreign, 41, 83, 99 ; price of, 153, 156, 162, 1S2, 183, 194; owners of, 275,
320, 327, 334, 464 ; discharge of, 486 ; sequestration, 526 ; to France, v. 448, 450 ; of
United States, 481, 498, 500, 501, 503, 505, 543, 627, 681 ; French, finally settled, vi.
7 ; domestic, payment of, vi. 8 ; provision for, 632 ; composition of, 641, 647 ; aliena-
tion of, 650 ; payments of, vii. 16, 17, 18, 20, 26 ; funding it a national blessing, 28 ;
extinguishment of, 30, 75 ; redemption, 555, 736, 737.

De Corny, i. 197.

D'Estaing, Count, i. 65, 91, 92, 93, 98, 112.

Delaware, i. 471.

De Marbois, i. 147.

Democracy, ii. 463 ; representative, 464 ; vi. 201, 368, 438, 439, 568, 582. Democrats,
devotion to France, vi. 170, 171, 173, 832.

Denmark, policy of, vii. 181, 297, 298.

De Noallles, i. 260, 314, 322.

De Kochambeau, i. 193, 215.

De Segur, i. 321.

Desertion, v. 263, 393.

Despotism, vii. 164.

De Ternay, Chevalier, i. 140.

Dexter, vi. 61.

Directory, French, vi. 313, 316, 357, 376, 418 ; vii. 658, 659, 660; demand of tribute
676, 679, 680, 685, 709.

Disaffected, vi. 574.

Discipline, ii. 117, 1S3, 184; v. 181, 198,295.

Discrimination, iii. 8, 11, 20; v. 443 ; object, vii. 381.

Dismemberment of United States, vi. 568.

District Judge, vi. 168.

Disunion, vii. 47, 4S.

Donald, v. 521.

Dorchester, Lord, iv. 30, 31, 32, 34, 85, 48.

Drafting troops, ii. 142.

Dragoons, v. 166.

Drawback, iii. 58.

Duane, James, i. 82, 85, 86, 90, 137, 150, 408.

Duer, William, i. 25, 56, 464.

Duelling, v. 331, 340.

Duplessis, i. 75.

Duportail, i. 93, 95, 108, 133, 198, 322.

Dutch, ii. 17.

Duties, Light House, v. 29.

E.

East India Trade, vii. 409 to 418.
Education, ii. 341 to 352 ; vi. 147, 143, 141).

GENERAL INDEX. 875

Eliza, ship, capture of, vi. 152.

Elizabeth, Queen, ii. 65, 66. 300.

Elswobth, i. 136, 379, 383 : ii. 252 ; vi. 448, 484, 498.

Embargo, iv. 511 ; vi. 135, 193, 214.

Emigrants, French, vi. 405.

Engineers, ii. 256, 257, 259; v. 148, 150, 174, 229; organization, 280.

Enlistment of citizens in foreign service, vii. 489.

Ensign, v. L68.

Estimates, additional, in. 48, 89, 92, 146, 284, 285.

Etiquette, iv. 1.

Excise on distilled liquors, i. 312; constitutional, vii. 161, 165.

Executive departments, i. 127, 155, 158, 189.

Expenditures, how controlled, vii. 529 ; advances, 536, 541, 545.

Expenses, extra, rules, v. 326, 398, 399, 402, 410.

Expop.ts, duties, return of, iii. 570.

F.

Faiklie, James, i. 428, 429.

Farewell Address, vi. 119, 120, 121, 122, 137, 138, 143, 144, 145, 147, 148, 149 ; points
to frame, vii. 570 ; draft of, 575 ; Union, 578, 579 ; dangers to, 580 ; partisan and
geographical differences, 581 ; one government, 582, 583 ; innovation, dangers of,
5S4* party spirit, 584, 585, 586 ; religion and morality, 587 ; industry, frugality,
public credit, 588 ; good faith, justice, peace, 588 ; national antipathies and attach-
ments, 589 ; foreign influence, 590, 591 ; foreign relations, 592 ; proclamation of
neutrality, 593.

Fauciiet, iv. 508, 546, 547 ; vi. 1, 40, 41, 42, 57, 65, 66, 69, 76 ; vii. 599.

Federalist, The, i. 450, 451, 454, 455, 470.

Federalists, The, vi. 368, 404, 486, 494, 508, 541, 543, 544, 548, 553, 565; vii. 831.

Fenno, iv. 299.

Finance, ii. 174 ; Superintendent, 193 ; iii. 1, 13 ; vi. 40.

Fines, penalties and forfeitures, iii. 556.

Flndley, v. 45.

Fisheries, i. 372. 408; iii. 55, 56; whale, iv. 79 ; v. 486.

Fish, liberty to, ii. 78. Fish and Fish Oil, v. 85.

Flsh, Major, i. 271.

FlTZSIMM'iNS, ii. 213.

Flax and Hemp, manufacture of, iii. 270.

Fleming, Col., ii. 155.

Fleury, Col., i. 80, 81, 172, 411 ; Madame, vi. 480.

Floridas, iv. 35, 57; v. 148, 283; cession of, vi. 15, 20, 291. 891

Flour, v. 82.

Floyd, Col., i. 324.

Forage, v. 370.

Foreign Affairs, department of, ii. 242; consuls, 243.

Foreign Attachments, v. 845.

Foreigners, enlistment of, v. 261, 264.

Forfeitures, remission of, iii. 46, 47.

Fortifications, inspector of, v. 230.

Fowler, Tiieodocius, iv. 147.

France, commerce, ii. 104, 119, 120, 127 ; mission to, 171 ; iv. «, 7, 11, 14; «ommerce, 22 ;

876 GENERAL INDEX.

debt to, 38; conduct, 55, 62, 77, 98, 102, 151, 153, 155, 153; payment, 171, 181, 188,
216, 221, 223, 240, 283, 318, 339, 343, 358; minister, received or not, 362; treaties
with, 365, 379, 382 ; debt to, 381, 414, 415, 418, 420 ; v. 441 ; accounts with, 422, 444 ;
reclaims tonnage, 474, 488, 497, 508, 546 ; v. 13 ; commercial system, 81, 94, 95, 135,
136, 140 ; invasion by, v. 148, 157, 274, 359 ; prospects, 440 ; commerce, 487, 489,
538, 539, 555, 559, 566, 570, 588, 634; famine in, vi. 16, 75, 88, 116, 122, 125 ; plan
of, 130, 133, 136, 150, 159, 165, 178, 174, 177, 181, 183, 187, 193; mission to, 194 to
209; treaty, 210; commission extraordinary to, 214, 216 to 260, 265, 269, 274, 284,
296, 297, 301, 319, 328, 357, 367, 378, 390, 407, 425, 466 ; treaty, 491, 508, 524, 575 ;
vii. 85, 86 ; war by, offensive, 87, 88 ; decree, 89, 90, 91 ; guarantee, 96 ; gratitude
to, 96, 99 ; conduct to U. S., 100, 105 ; obligation to, 108, 118 ; treaty with, 131, 137 ;
career and objects, 141, 142, 151, 157, 171, 174, 181, 210, 211, 222, 224, 353 ; treaty
with, 382 ; colonial system, 389, 391 ; new treaty with, 393 ; terms required, 398 ;
guarantee, 399 ; succors of, vii. 594 ; motives, 595 ; policy, 596, 597 ; conduct, 601 ;
motives, 609 ; policy, 616 ; adherents, 619 ; object, 620 ; power, 621 ; measures to-
wards, 622 ; captures by, 626 ; decrees aggressive, 631, 636; conduct, 640; resistance
to, 642, 643; war, origin of, 645, 647, 649 ; irreligion and immorality, 650, 651 ; arro-
ance, 663, 664; demand of tribute, 669 ; invasion, 671,672; policy towards, 673, 675,
702, 729, 731.

Frauncis, v. 583, 584, 585 ; vi. 261.

Franklin, Benjamin, i. 39S ; opinion of Adams, vi. 446, 569, 571; vii. 380.

Franklin Fort, v. 11, 12; pieces signed, vi. 2; vii. 168.

Freedom, definition of, ii. 3, 22, 34, 64, 116, 291.

Free Ships, free goods, vii. 452, 453, 458, 460, 463, 464, 665, 667.

Freneau, iv. 299 ; v. 518, 519, 522 ; vii. 5, 6, 11, 15, 35.

French Captures, vi. 84; colonies, independence of, vii. 686 ; faction, vii. 681, 682, 6S9.

Fulton, v. 43.

Fundlng, i. 312 ; permanent, 317 ; general, 329, 356, 366, 867 ; ii. 191, 197, 198, 236, 239 ,
sinking, 212, 213 ; general, 217, 220, 239 ; iii. 5 ; sinking, 295; right of taxing public,
514 ; of sequestration and confiscation, 521 ; iv. 167, 187 ; sinking, 217, 218 ; state
of, 426 ; vindication of, vi. 636 ; vii. 735, 833.

Funerals and Executions, military, v. 415.

G.

Gallatin, vi. Ill, 279.

Galvan, Major, i. 221.

Gates, Horatio, i. 28, 37, 38 ; objects to detaching troops, 41, 49, 111, 170, 171 ; v. 546.

Genet, iv. 394, 415, 419 ; recall requested, 469 ; conduct, 489, 491, 494 ; correspondence
with, 496, 497; v. 561, 564, 565, 572, 574, 589; appeal of, vii. 117, 118, 119; fitting
privateers, 138, 139 ; enlisting citizens, 139, 140, 394, 395 ; instructions to, 396, 397,
399, 597, 598.

Genoa, iv. 169 ; vii. 624, 625, 653.

Georgia, ii. 17, 19; iv. 408, 473, 572; v. 33, 35.

Gerard, i. 65, 92.

German Battalion, ii. 147.

Germany, Emperor of, vi. 215, 230, 313 ; vii. 655.

Gerry, Elbridge, iv. 274; vi. 283, 297, 313, 316, 357, 367, 413.

Giles, Wm. B., v. 596 ; vi. 261.

Gllleland, i. 11, 271.

Gilman, iv. 85.

GENERAL INDEX.

8Y7

Gimat, i. 322.
Glass, iii. 277.
Glaubeck, v. 583, 584, 586.
Goodhue, vi. 249.
Goods, unloading of, iii. 64.
Gore, v. 580; vi. 61,402.
Gouvion, i. 305, 322 ; Madame, vi. 364.

Government, general, i. 189, 330, 435, 444; seat of, 471, 477; republican, ii. 30; civil,
44 ; free, 56, 188 ; federal and state, 189 ; powers necessary, 189, 198 ; weakness,
201, 202, 284; adequate, 339, 363; constitution of, 393, 395; guaranteed, 408; sup-
ports, 411 ; British, 413, 415 ; republic, 415 ; democratic, 415, 440 ; moderate, 416 ;
depends on opinion, 438, 446, 453 ; objects, 456 ; state, 459 ; national, 460 ; mixed,
464; monarchy, 464; representative,*^; departments, 465 ; extent of, 465 ; national,
iv. 19, 83 ; powers of sovereign, 105, 109, 110 ; defect of, 148 ; change of, 271 ;
powers, vi. 386 ; views of the, 581 ; national and state, vii. 778, 780 ; departments,
813, 818 ; definition of, vii. 164.
Grain, manufacture, iii. 267 ; v. 87.
Grand, Mr., iv. 163, 307, 308.
Grants, New Hampshire, i. 324, 330, 338, 397.
Granville, ii. 92 ; v. 29 ; vi. 34.

Great Britain, ii. 2, 8, 11, 14, 20 ; king, 46, 48, 62, 104, 105, 116 ; army, 117 ; income,
196; consumption of, 196; peace with, 244, 298, 323; iv. 31, 34, 35, 36, 59, 60, 62,
67 ; policy towards, 500 ; non-intercourse, 527 ; negotiation with, 531 ; conduct of,
545 ; treaty with, 549 ; instructions, 472, 550, 552, 565 ; v. 28.
Commercial System, v. 81, 93, 95, 470, 487, 489, 568, 593 ; vi. 2, 26 ; remonstrance to, 35,
58 89 107 125, 135, 166, 181, 187 ; Bank of England, 211, 237, 278, 286 ; new in-
structions, 288, 297, 300, 306, 315, 417, 462, 466, 469, 478, 485, 496, 519, 538; resources,
vii. 149,153,154,172; hostility to, 174, 185, 210, 218; situation, 220, 221; acts of
June 8, and November 6,1793, 302, 382; colonial system, 383, 384, 386, 390, 391,
461; conduct, 628; policy towards, 629, 630; orders of, 683, 635; conduct to, 639,
656 ; treaty with, 723 ; acts, validity of, 844.
Greene, Gen., succeeds Gates, i. 190, 193 ; southern army, 204 ; defeat of Gates, 205,

316, 318, 423; eulogium on, ii. 480; v. 583, 585, 586; vi. 579; Mrs., vi. 3, 6.
Greenleaf, vi. 413.
Gunpowder, iii. 278.

H.

Habersham, v. 37, 68.

Half-Pat, i. 347, 358.

Hamilton, prophetic letter, i. 1 ; mercantile letters, 2, 8 ; pay-book, 4; notes of reading,
4 5, 6, 7 ; captain of artillery, 7, 8, 9, 10; aid to Washington and Lieut.-Colonel, 11 ;
operations of enemy, 16; check to disaffection, 24 ; rank to Frenchmen, 26 ; danger
of Philadelphia, 34; his exposure, 35; mission to Gates, 37, 41, 44, 45 ; movements
of enemy, 60, 62, 63, 64, 70 ; battalions of negroes, 76 ; their emancipation , 77 ; vigor
at south, reinforcements of enemy, 85; western expedition, 85; West Indies, 88 ;
mission to D'Estaing, 93, 95; currency, finances, a foreign loan, 119 ; employment
of it, 121; a tax in kind, 124; advises a bank, board of trade, single executive de-
partments, 127 ; mission to negotiate a cartel, 132 ; movement of enemy, 139 ; mis-
sion to De Ternay, plan of co-operation, 140 ; movement of enemy, 142 ; officers of
light infantry, 143 ; defects of confederation, 150 ; advises a convention to form a con-
stitution, 157 ; perpetual revenue, 158 ; a bank-executive departments, 159 ; taxes, 162 ;

(o GENERAL INDEX.

a continental receiver, 163 ; Gates' defeat, lVl ; capture of Andre, 173; his character.
179 ; Arnold's treason, 172, 181 ; asks a command in light infantry, attack on New-
York, 195 ; armory, 201 ; marriage, 202 ; resigns as aid, 211 ; asks a command, 220 ;
finances, 225; revenues of U. S., 231; expenses, credit, a national bank. 236; plan
of, 240 ; funds and debts, 255 ; as to command in army, 258 ; obtains it, 266 ; ad-
vances to Yorktown, 269; attack of, 271; as to retaining his rank, 275; appointed
continental receiver, 279 ; condition of U. S., visits New-York Legislature, and
urges taxes, 288 ; resolution for a national convention, 288 ; as to New-York finances,
291,293; elected to Congress, 29S ; urges collection of taxes, 304 ; permanent funds.
307; taxes, collection of, 308 ; system of taxation, 311; advises funding debt, ii. 317 ;
resigns office of Continental receiver, 320 ; admitted to the bar, 320 ; elected to
Congress, 320 ; dissuades removal of French army, 821 ; rule of conduct, 336 ; na-
tional commissioners, his plan of, 336 ; mocferation in army, 346, 851 ; chairman of
committee on peace arrangements, 359 ; as to plan funding debt, 366 ; treaty of
peace, 369 ; mutiny of troops, 374, 895 ; New Hampshire, 397 ; Federal Union,
402 ; relinquishment of compensation, 403 ; rank in army, 403 ; garrisoning posts,
405 ; rank, 412 ; brevet,'413 : learning, 420 ; Cincinnati, 428 ; tories 431 ; for an en-
ergetic government, 436 ; temporary absence from convention, 436, 440, 442 ; as to
his appointment of aid to Washington, 444 ; the new Constitution, 445, 448 ;
Steuben's claims, 448 ; the Federalist, 450 ; as to conditional ratification of Consti-
tution/464 ; as to adoption by Vermont, 46S ; "Washington becoming President?
470, 473, 488 ; as to seat of Government, 471 ; advises policy of Massachusetts as
to amendments, 476, 486 ; Vermont, 477 ; as to the Vice-President, 481 ; opinion
of Adams, 487, 489 ; choice of President, 488 ; choice of Vice-President, 490.

Writes "full vindication of Congress," ii. 1; "farmer refuted," 37; "Ee-
marks on Quebec bill," 127 ; plan "reorganization of army," 189 ; plan "Inspector
General office," 153; writes Essays of Publius, 156; " military remarks and que-
ries," 164 ; second plan of office of " Inspector General," 168 ; instructions for
mission to France, 171 ; "military regulations," 176 ; "discipline," 188 ; "the Con-
tinentalist," 185; "resolutions for General Convention," 201 ; plan of " specific tax-
ation," 204; resolution for "raising funds," 212; for sinking fund, 212; report on
import duty, 213 ; provision for interest on debt, 223 ; for compensation to Steu-
ben, 223; for "valuation of lands and a census," 224; plan of quartermaster
general's department, 225 ; report on army memorial, 229 ; on memorial of Penn-
sylvania, 230 ; valuation of lands deferred, 236 ; for permanent and adequate funds
collected by Congrses, 236 ; respectful resolution as to Washington, 236 ; for open
debate, 237 ; homage to the army, 237 ; army lands and settlement of accounts, 238 ;
national funds, 239 ; basis of taxation, 241 ; department of foreign affairs, 242 ; ratifi-
cation of treaty with Great Britain, 243 ; Indian affairs, 244; commercial treaty with
Great Britain, 245 ; corps of invalids, 246 ; collection of taxes, 247 ; garrisoning fron-
tier posts, 248: treaty with Russia, 248; discharge of army, 250; deportation of ne-
groes, 251 ; army lands, 251 ; fulfilment of treaty with Great Britain, 252 ; thanks to
B. E. Livingston, 253 ; military peace [establishment, 253 ; mutiny at Philadelphia,
268 ; resolutions for a general convention, 269 ; mutiny at Philadelphia, 276 ; vindi-
cates Congress, 283; Phocion, 287 ; bank of New- York, 830; revenue system, 333;
Cincinnati, 335 ; address of Annapolis convention, 336 ; resolution of New-York legis-
lature calling a convention, and for appointment of delegates, 340 ; act instituting an
university, 341 ; revenue system, 352 ; act acceding to independence of Vermont,
374 ; speech on it, 375 ; speech on fulfilment of treaty, 390 ; propositions for a na-
tional government, 393 ; Constitution for the U. S., 395 ; speech on, 409 ; on a re-

GENERAL INDEX. 879

publican government, 416, 417 ; prospects of Constitution, 419 ; on the opposition
to it, 422 ; speech on it, 426 ; speech on Senate, 446 ; brief of argument on Consti-
tution, 463 ; draft of proposed ratification, 467 ; resolution to carry it into effect,
471 ; on fugitive slaves, 472 ; free navigation of Mississippi, 473 ; address on New-
York election, 474 ; euloginm on General Greene, 480.

Eeport on public credit, iii. 1 ; on remission of forfeitures, 4G ; on additional
estimates, 48 ; on State debts, 50 ; impost act, 54, tonnage duties, SO ; State debits
and credits, 80; purchase of West Point, 82; plan for sale of public lands, B4 : es-
timates, 89 ; renewal of certificates, 93; public credit, 95; National Bank, 106:
estimates, 146; duties on imports, 148; establishment of a mint, 149; India and
China trade, 18S ; Dutch loan, 190 ; duties on spirits, 192 ; report on manufactures,
192; receipts and expenditures, 284; loans, 2S6 ; duties on spirits, 297 ; additional
supplies, 326; remission of duties, 337; public debt, 338; loans, 350, 351; bank
deposits, 352 , loans, 356, 368, 370, 371, 403 ; public funds, 411 ; loans, 413 : duties
on spirits, 441 ; balance in treasury, and loans, 444; Public debt, &c, 446; loan,
448, 451 ; public credit, 456 ; improvement of revenue, 529 ; revenue circulars.
537; reports on claims, 578.

Etiquette, iv. 1 ; formation of cabinet, 4 ; negotiations as to foreign loans, 5,
12, 13, 22, 37, 38, 149, 152, 154, 157, 158, 162, 163, 168, 170, 176, 181, ISO, 188, 193,
217, 221, 226, 279, 282, 308, 320, 337, 411, 425, 426, 436, 449, 466, 533, 540, 562 ;
Indian Treaty, 6 ; on arrears of pay to Virginia and North Carolina lines, 15 ; on light-
houses, 23 ; communication with Beckwith, 30, 32 ; on revenue cutters, 46 ; on march-
ing British troops through U. S., and a pacific policy, 48 ; on navigation of Mississippi,
71 ; President's speech, 77, 83 ; on fisheries, 79 ; assay of dollars, 93 ; mail con-
tracts, 95; on treaty with Prance, 97; letter to National Assembly, 101; on con-
stitutionality of National Bank, 104 ; on treaty with Great Britain, 141 ; on defect of
power in national government, 148; foreign coins, 162; inspection of stock lists;
166; succor to Hispaniola, 174 ; President's Speech, 184; on treaty with Great
Britain, 190 ; apportionment of Kepresentatives, 206 ; loans from France, 223 ; re-
election of Washington, 235 ; army supplies, 242 ; salary to Vice-President, 245 ;
defence of his administration, 248 ; on opposition to internal duties, 284, 286, 287,
291, 306, 311, 315; cabinet dissensions, 303; speech of President, 323; succor to
Hispaniola, 328, 339 ; commerce and navigation of United States, 332 ; treaty with
Indians, 340 ; debt to France, 343 ; invasion of Spanish territory, 343 ; loans, 347 ;
war in Europe, 356; neutrality, 357, 359, 360, 361; reception of French minister,
362 ; obligations of treaties with France, 382 ; advance of money to France, 391 ;
fitting out privateers, 394; allowances collecting revenue, 407 ; Indian wars, 409 ;
debt to France, 414, 417, 420, 422 ; French privateers, 424, 434, 438, 443, 457, 462,
471; questions to judges, 450; convening Congress, 460; restoration of French
prizes, 467 ; on Genet's conduct, 469 ; on British instructions, 472 ; reply to Rich-
mond, 474 ; convening Congress, 477, 481 ; communication to Congress, 485 ; Presi-
dent's Speech, 486 ; President's Message, 492; requests inquiry into his conduct,
495 ; message of President, 496 ; release of La Fayette, 505 ; transmission of corre-
spondence, 505; preparation for war, 507; advance to France, 508; on loans, 510,
512,513,516; state of public affairs and mission to England, 519 ; instructions to
Jay, 536, 550; on reply to Hammond, 544; on negotiating with Great Britain, 551 ;
treaty project, 555; Indian war, 558; establishment at Presqu' Isle, 559; foreign
intercourse expense, 560; supervisor of revenue, 566 ; removal of a collector, 568;
compensation for captured vessels, 569 ; treaty concert with Sweden and Denmark.
571; Kentucky and Georgia, 573; insurrection in Pennsylvania, 575; report on.
578 ; proclamation, 600.

880 GENERAL INDEX.

Insurrection in Pennsylvania, v. 1, 11, 12, 13, 15 ; employment of militia, 16 ;
on commercial treaty with Great Britain, 29 ; Indians in Georgia, 33 ; instructions
to General Lee, 38 ; march through Pennsylvania, 43 to 55 ; invites inquiry into his
conduct, 56 ; purveyor of supplies, 56 ; loan, 60 ; proclamation of thanksgiving,
61 ; commissioner of loans, 63 ; additional compensation to supervisors, 65 ; remit-
tance of stock, 66 ; conduct of mint, 70 ; mounted volunteers, 72 ; agents for Indian
affairs, 72 ; 7'esigns treasury department, 73 ; Washington's approbation, 74'; speech
on commercial relations, 80 ; act to punish crimes, 95 ; imposing duties on carriages,
99 ; for calling forth militia, 103 ; remarks on treaty with Great Britain, 106 ; ap-
pointed Inspector General, 137; extra allowances, 152; reply for Washington
to Secretary at war, 154, 165, 177 ; army regulations, 181 ; bill for provisional army,
190; organization of militia, 191; provisional army, 192; system of trade with In-
dians, 193; manufactories of arms, 193; medical establishment, 194, 210; distribu-
tion of commands, 196; instructions for recruiting, 211; army commands, 211 ;
act better organizing troops, 223 ; transportation, 232 ; riot in Pennsylvania, 235,
237; plan as to military supplies, 242; objects of discussion with Wilkinson, 247 ;
cavalry evolutions, 248 ; arrangement of artillery, 251 ; filling vacancies, 255 ; dress
of soldiers, 256 ; Indian affairs, 257 ; candidates for vacancies, 258 ; sales by In-
dians, 259 ; supplies, 260 ; enlistment of foreigners, 261 ; volunteer corps, 262 ; re-
medies for desertion, 263; duties of Adjutant General, 264; supply of a regiment
of infantry, 272; cavalry, 276; act better organizing corps of artillerists and engi-
neers, 280 ; rank and promotion, 286 ; capital punishment, 289 ; plan for uniform,
291 ; regulations for issue of fuel, straw, and stationery ; horses, 293 ; discipline, 296 ;
winter quarters, 299 ; on legal enlargement of soldiers, 303; circular as to military
communications, 304 ; allowance of barracks and quarters, 308 ; disposition of
troops on frontiers, 311 ; army supplies, 320 ; allowance of servants, 327 ; regulations
as to supplies and special and extra expense, 329 ; filling vacancies, 331 ; advances to
army, 334; arrangement of huts, 341, 342; distribution of troops, 345, 347, 355;
extra allowance, 356; works at Loftus Heights, 360, 372 ; distribution of troops, 361 ;
stage wagon for army uses, 369; rations, 370; pay of troops, 374; plan of mili-
tary academy, 378 ; uniform, 385 ; funeral honors to Washington, 388 ; separate
commands, 396 ; adjustment of accounts, 397, 409 ; general army system, 404; the
step, 407,412; organization of a regiment, 413 ; Deputy Quarter Master General's
duties, 416 ; order of battle, 421, 427 ; Paymaster General 424, 425'; rule of promo-
tion, 430, 435 ; special compensations, 432 ; address on disbanding army, 437
French revolution, 440 ; excessive speculation, '463, 476, 477, 478, 492, 498, 500
character of Wolcott, 467 ; manufactory at Patterson, 471, 508 ; army claims, 512
New- York canvassers, 514 ; appointment of Freneau in State department, 518
Pennsylvania opposition to internal revenue, 522; election of Vice-President,
527,528, 529, 532, 533 ; necessity of a loan, 550; reception of Genet, 564; deten-
tion of privateers, 569 ; threatened appeal of Genet to people, 574, 575 ; party ap-
pointments, 588 ; negotiation with Great Britain, western insurrection, 609, 611 ;
public credit, 624, 626 ; purposes of France, 634.

Katification of treaty with G. B., vi. 5 ; advice as to finance, 9 ; as to British Pro-
vision order, 29 ; of remonstrance to G. B., and modification of treaty, 35 ; power of
treaty commissioners, 43 ; G. W. La Fayette, 47, 70, 79, 102 ; calm observer, 49, 50 ;
instructions prior to conclusion of definitive treaty, 57 ; as to Secretary of State, 61 ;
Freich captures, 84; convening Senate, 86; call for papers, 90, 95, 97, 100 ^fulfil-
ment of treaty, 92, 94, 103, 106 ; conduct of England, impressment of seamen, 107 ;
candidate for President, 114; farewell address, 119; advice as to France, 122; ad-

GENERAL INDEX. 881

vises Veto, 128 ; policy of France, 130, 133 ; completion of frigates, 131 ; sale of a
prize, 155, 161, 165; conduct to Adet, 161, 163, 168; outline of president's speech,
167 ; commencement of a navy, 177 ; reply to Adet, 177, 179 ; election of president,
188 ; system of revenue, 190, 253, 259 ; policy towards France, mission and prepara-
tion, 193, 194, 205, 209, 213, 216, 218, 226, 230, 234, 246, 249, 270; sketch of his
career, 243 ; advice as to aid by G. B., 278 ; declines seat in Senate of the U. S., 281 ;
as to president's power to employ ships as convoys, 2S5 ; British instructions, 288 ;
proposes journey by Washington, 289 ; probable appointment to command army,
293, 316; measures of military preparation and revenue, 295; conduct of British
officers, 298 ; policy as to alien bill, 300 ; bill to define treason, 307 ; as to his
military rank, 326, 331, 340, 341, 355; military expedition to S. America, 347,
348 ; advises treasury notes, 349 ; terms of loan, 381 ; house-tax, 381 ; proposes
measures to support government, 384 ; internal improvements, 386 ; subdivision
of States, 387 ; contingent authority to declare war, and conquest of Floridas and
Louisiana, 390 ; expedition to South America, 391 ; nomination of Murray, 397 ;
governor of each State first general of its militia, 405 ; directs prosecution for a libel,
413; commission to France, 414 ; on death of Washington, 415; condition of public
affairs, completion of navy, 416, 417 ; election of president, 429, 438, 441, 445, 451 ;
as to compensation for injury in public service, 432 ; letters to Adams, 449, 470, 477 ;
Jefferson or Burr as president, 487, 495, 497, 499, 508, 519, 520, 521 ; treaty with
France, 496 ; effect of, 514 ; judiciary system, 529 ; proposes amendments of consti-
tution, as to election of president and vice-president, 531, 536; policy of federalists,
540 ; state of parties, 546 ; project in aid of Wolcott, 549 ; cession of Lousiana to
France, 551 ; states his propositions in federal convention, and views of govrnment
for U. S., 556 ; New-York election, Lansing or Burr, 559 ; vindicates federalists,
561, 562, 565 ; on preservation of the Union, 568 ; condition of army and enemy in
1777; punishment of disaffected persons, 574; Danbury expedition, 577; plan of
enemy, 579 ; his views of government, 5S1 ; designs of enemy, 534 ; Fabian policy
vindicated, 587 ; strength and movements of enemy, 589, 592, 594,597 ; New- York
election, character of George Clinton examined, 600; writes "Address to Public
Creditors," 632; "Funding System Vindicated," 636; " Anti-Defamer," 651.

" An American," vi. 1 ; "payments of public debt," 16 ; "Civis,"18; "Fact,"
27; "Amicus," 31; "Catullus," 34; " A plain honest man," 74 ; " Observer," 75 ;
"Pacificus," 76; "No Jacobin," 117; "Reply of Washington," 140 ; " Ameriea-
nus,"141; "Tully,"157; " Horatius," 169; "Camillus," 172; "Explanation,"
528; " Washington's speech," 550; "Message for Washington as to call for pa-
pers and treaty power," 556 ; " Abstract of points to form Farewell Address,"
570 ; " draft of Farewell Address," 575 ; " France," 594; " The Answer," 600 ;
"Washington's speech," 611 ; " The Warning," 616 ; " The Stand," 689 ; "John
Adams," 687; "Address to Electors of New- York," 728; "The Examination,"
744 ; " Resolutions for amendment of constitution," 836; " Supplying New- York
with water," 837 ; " Plan of Merchants' Bank," 838 ; " Law Briefs," " Validity of
British acts," 844 ; "Carriage tax," 845 ; "Law of libel," 849; " Lansing or Burr,"
as Governor of New-York, 851.

Hammond, iv. 141, 177 ; reply to, 544, 557, 569 ; v. 470 ; vi. 27 ; vii. 381.

Hancock, John, i. 484 ; vi. 597.

Harper's Ferry, v. 339.

Harper, Goodloe, vi. 334, 338.

Harrison, Robert H., eastern alliance, i. 192, 215.

Hawkesbury, Lord, iv. 177.

Hay, Col., i. 85.

G 56

882 GENERAL INDEX.

Hazen, ii. 147.

Hemp, iii. 57.

Henfield, iv. 410.

Henry, Patrick, i. 463 ; vi. 113, 114 ; vii. 40, 41.

Hessians, i. 136.

Heth, Col., vi. 338, 343.

Hispaniola, iv. 174, 184.

Holders, original of debt, iii. 9, 12.

Holland, debt to, iv. 15, 39, 42, 62, 94, 151, 157, 169, 176, 247, 419, 566 ; v. 450, 554

vi. 20 ; treaty with, vii. 413, 427, 653, 782.
Holmes, vi. 33.
Honor, true, vii. 206.
Hoops, Major, v. 141.
Hospital, ii. 167.

Howe, Gen., i. 19, 27, 32, 50; vi. 588, 589, 593, 595, 597.
Howell, Gov., v. 43.
Hubbard, iv. 13, 37.

Hudson's Bat Co., vi. 17 ; vii. 266, 270, 435.
Humphreys, Col., i. 441, 442.
Husbands, v. 48.

I.

Impeachments, court of, ii. 404.

Import Doty, ii. 213, 214, 239, 364, 370 ; iii. 54, 55, 148 ; v. 447.
Impressment, vi. 35, 38, 80, 107, 169 ; vii. 212, 213.
Improvements, internal, iii. 255, 256 ; vi. 384, 385, 386 ; vii. 755, 756.
Income, professional, v. 139.
Indemnification, claims for, iii. 585, 587.

Independence, ii. 49, 50, 55, 175, 303, 358 ; of Vermont, 374, 419; of U. S., vi. 231.
India Goods, iii. 56, 57 ; trade, 188, 189.

Indians, i. 32, 421 ; ii. 244, 245 ; iv. 32, 84, 145, 184, 238, 323, 341, 408, 409, 411, 558, 559,
573 ; v. 11, 33, 35, 36 ; agents for, 72, 193, 247, 257, 259, 317 ; vi. IS, 56, 107, 596,
651 ; vii. 181, 243, 244, 255, 260, 551 ; protection of, 554, 555.
Indigo, v. 88.

Infantry, ii. 143; v. 166, 223, 498, 506.
Inland Trade Navigation, vii. 243, 247, 254, 262, 271, 275, 277.

Inspector General, i. 56, 77 ; ii. 153 ; duties, 154, 168, 169, 170 ; v. 137, 139 ; compen-
sation, 181, 187, 197, 207 ; deputy, 228, 231, 265, 297 ; vi. 294, 323, 326, 327, 323,
329, 355.

Inspectors, iii. 65.

Interest, rate of, iii. 23 ; quarter yearly, 30 ; rate of, iv. 86, 89, 172, 346.

Invalids, corps of, v. 328.

Ireland, ii. 17, 18, 106, 107 ; vi. 309, 312, 372, 412.

Iron, manufacture of, iii. 259, 262 ; v. 89.

Irvine, Gen., iv. 174.

Insurgents, trial of, vi. 2, 432 ; vii. 159, 165, 718, 719.

J,

Jacobin, vii. 118, 133, 137.
James, King, ii. 70.

GENERAL INDEX. 883

Jay, John, i. 61, 400, 421 ; iv. 4, 7, 531 ; instructions to, 536, 550 ; prospects, 574 ; v. 140,
589, 602, 603, 605, 609 ; vi. 2, 95, 97, 114, 117, 137, 141, 161, 192, 207, 312, 345, 492 ;
vii. 175, 176 ; mission, 179, 180, 182, 186, 208, 209, 381, 462, 464, 690, 723, 741, 742.

Jefferson, iv. 4, 8, 23, 34, 35, 148, 303, 306, 312, 314, 517 ; v. 90, 115, 116, 127, 519, 522
526, 528, 535, 538, 540, 552, 575 ; vi. 59, 111, 191, 192, 206, 214, 242, 246, 280, 419, 420,
421, 434, 437, 438, 441, 445, 447, 453, 454, 457, 463, 464, 467, 468, 473, 483, 486,
487, 488, 490, 491, 492, 494, 495, 497, 499, 501, 504, 506, 507, 509, 510, 511, 512, 513,
523; vii. 5, 6; opposition to constitution and provision for debt-bank, 8, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14, 35, 38, 41 ; advice as to debt to France, 37, 40, 44, 58, 59, 64, 65, 66, 68, 69, 70,
71, 72; opposition to fiscal measures, 42, 43, 47, 48 ; attack on Adams, 49, 50; op-
position to Constitution, 54, 55, 56, 60, 74, 175, 197, 199, 294; letter of, 308, 313, 323,
380, 381, 382, 394, 395, 398, 459, 460, 462, 463, 601, 688, 695, 696, 700, 722, 724, 734,
738, 817, 832, 852.

Johnson, Gov., v. 439.

Judiciary Department, ii. 270, 394, 395, 403 ; iv. 17 ; v. 446 ; extension of, vi. 384, 385-
483, 498, 528, 543, 545 ; vii. 762 ; objects, 763, 765 ; constitution of, 767, 792 ; inde-
pendence of, 793, 799, 806, 808, 811, 815, 824, 826.

Jury, trial by, ii. 315.

Justice, fugitives from, ii. 408.

K.

Keane, iv. 6.
Kent, Duke of, v. 434.

Kentucke, i. 458 ; ii. 426 ; iii. 589 ; iv. 326, 344, 573 ; v. 13, 473 ; vi. 392, 403.
Ktng, Rufus, iv. 145, 150 ; vi. 61, 113, 122, 125, 130, 2S0, 303, 546, 553.
Kirkpatrick, i. 272.
Knowlton, i. 342.
Knox, Hugh, i. 24, 52.

Knox, Gen., i. 482, 483; ii. 152 ; iv. 6 ; v. 31, 139, 141 ; vi. 324, 326, 328, 331, 336, 339,
340, 341, 342, 343, 346, 351, 355, 366, 369, 373, 571.

La Fayette, i. 63, 137, 138, 140, 197, 211 ; southern army, 263 ; negotiations in France,
277, 283 ; Indians, 421 ; U. S. and France, 446 ; iv. 6, 100, 102 ; his release, 505 ; vi.
47, 48, 51, 63, 65, 70, 71, 73, 78, 79, 85, 90, 102, 118, 120, 266 ; vii. 105.

Lakes, v. 319.

Lazurne, character, i. 83, 84.

Land, valuation of, i. 334, 335; Hamilton's plan of, 336; ii. 190; valuation, 225; ces-
sion, 234, 235 ; valuation deferred, 235 ; allowances, 238, 251 ; tax, 240 ; value, iii. 6
26 ; report sale of, 84, 85, 86, 87 ; patents, 88 ; commissioners, 89 ; waste, 123 ; ap-
propriation, 295, 463 ; estimate, iv. 184 ; power to relinquish, 340 ; vii. 555.

Langdon, iv. 85.

Lansdown, Marquis of, v. 481.

Lansing, vi. 559 ; reasons for election, vii. 851, 853.

Laurens, Col., i. 68, 109, 111 ; mission to France, 113; southern army, 114; 172, 214
271 ; death, 318.

Laurens, Henry, i. 80.

Lauzun, Duke, i. 215.

88-4 GENERAL INDEX.

Law of Nature, ii. 43, 45.

Law or Nations, modern, binding on U. S., vii. 349.

Lawrence, John, i. 310 ; vi. 82, 83.

Laws, Doctor of, v. 458.

Lead, manufacture of, iii. 264.

Lebeuf, v. 613.

Lee, Major-Gen., i. 19, 68 ; duel with Laurens, 73, 358.

Lee, Major, instructions to, i. 79, 86, 94, 99, 104, 105 ; Governor, v. 44, 45, 46, 48, 53 ; vi.

62, 68.
Lee, Richard H., i. 482.

Legislation, power of, vii. 801, 803, 807, 819, 825.
Legislature of U. S., powers of, ii. 405; exceptions to, 406.
Leguen, vi. 133.
Lenox, Major, v. 52.
Letters, forged, vi. 111.
Lewis, Morgan, vi.'560.
L'Hohmedieu, i. 409.

LlANCOURT, EoCHEFAtTCATJLD, v/28.*

Libel, law of, vii. 849.

Liberty, vii. 164.

Licenses, duties on, iii. 52 ; abstracts of, 570.

Lieutenant Colonel, v. 168.

Light Houses, iv. 23, 30, 75, 82, 222, 316.

Lincoln, Gen., as V. P., i. 482, 483.

Liston, vi. 472, 473.

Livingston, Eobert E., i. 12, 14, 15 ; ii. 253 ; v. 464 ; vi. 231, 232, 233, 234, 473.

Livingston, William, Gov. i. 471.

Livingston, Edward, vi. 90 ; election of, 188.

Loans, i., abroad, 323 ; ii. 192, 193, 204, 458 ; iii. 2, 24 ; Tontine, 29, 42 ; Dutch, 190, 191,
286; Eeporton, 350, 351, 352, 356, 357, 368, 370; policy, 384; authority, 403; de-
fence, 414 ; benefits, 418 ; domestic, 444, 448, 449 ; from bank, 451 ; iv. 12, 13, 14,
39, 41, 44, 83, 87, 90, 138, 140 148, 151, 153, 155, 164, 167, 173, 178, 186, 193, 227,
239, 246, 347, 354, 411, 419, 428, 429, 430, 435; application of, 436, 449, 453, 464,
466, 509, 533, 540, 543, 546, 566 ; v. 37 ; at Antwerp, 59, 60, 550 ; vi. 7 ; interest on,
how payable, 10, 16, 381.

Loftus Heights, Water battery, v. 360, 363, 371. '

London, ii. 2, 6.

Louis XVI., vii. 103, 105, 107.

Louisiana, iv. 35, 57 ; v. 148, 158, 283 ; cession to France, vi. 15, 20, 276, 278, 291, 391,
524, 551, 553.

Lowndes, Capt., i. 1.

Loyalists, i. 443.

Luxuries, iii. 34.

M.

McDougal, Gen., i. 36, 90, 159 ; vi. 579.

McGillivrat, iv. 6.

MoHenry, i. 327, 365 ; vi. 63, 130, 133, 334,^351, 354, 366 ; vii. 717.

McKean, Judge, vi. 406, 523.

McPherson, Gen., vi. 406.

GENERAL INDEX. 885

Madison, James, i. 383 ; conditional ratification, 465, 470 ; ii. 213, 252 ; iv. 274, 277, 517 ;
vi. 78, 92, 111, 209, 214, 223, 230, 235, 241, 242, 246, 261, 473, 559 ; vii. 40, 41 ; com-
mercial resolutions, 382, 724, 734; proposes direct tax, 738.

Magazines, v. 164, 165, 323.

Major General, v. 137, 138, 229.

Malcolm, Col., i. 310 ; vi. 562, 563.

Malmesbury, Mission of, vi. 183, 260, 276.

Malta, vi. 811.

Mansfield, Jared, i. 442.

Manufactures, ii. 12, 20, 28, 113, 114, 115 ; iii. 5, 123 ; report on, 123 ; expediency of en-
couraging, 193, 232; enumeration of, 233 : effect on price, 235; motives to protect,
236 ; effects of, 237 ; geographical interests, 241 ; protective duties, 244 ; prohibito-
ry, 245; bounties, 246 ; premiums, 251 ; exemptions from duty, 251; drawbacks,
252 ; new inventions, 253 ; inspection of, 255 ; remittances, 255 ; transportation,
255 ; bounties, 280, 2S1 ; v. 193, 471, 475, 478, 506, 508, 512, 514, 548 ; vii. 615, 616.

Manumission Society, i. 423 ; vi. 525.

Marshall, John, vi. 283, 392, 438.

Maryland, ii. 71, 74, 146, 147 ; vi. 367.

Massachusetts, i. 456 ; ii. 5, 71, 87, 95 ; iii. 72 ; iv. 76 ; v. 215, 216, 277.

Matthews, i. 136.

Meade, Col., i. 207, 298.

Measures, Weights and Coins, Report on, iv. 23.

Medical Establishment, v. 194, 218, 297.

Meigs, i. 442.

Mercator, vii. 19, 21, 24.

Mercer, Col., v. 592.

Merchants, integrity of, iii. 62 ; protection of, vii. 499.

Mexico, iv. 70 ; vi. 391.

Mifflin, Gov., iv. 559 ; as to drafting militia, v. 43, 44, 47 ; vi. 406.

Militia, plan of, ii. 264, 265, 266 ; v. 8, 9, 17, 20, 21, 32 ; objects of calling, 38, 42, 43, 46,
49; return, 55; act calling forth, 103; classing, 185; plan, 191, 193; act, 447, 608
621 ; classed, vi. 295, 306 ; draft, 378, 380, 405 ; vii. 554, 686.

Military Academy, See Academy Military.

Military Executions, v. 249, 289, 356.

Mint, establishment of, iii. 149 ; money unit, 151, 15S, 180; coins, 158; metals, 161;
alloy, 163; coinage free or not, 165, 176; alloy, 178; pieces, 180; denominations,
182; devices, 184; coins, foreign, 185 ; officers of mint, 187 ; errors, remedy of, 187
iv. 23, 96; v. 70; vii. 555, 734.

Miranda, iv. 71 ; vi. 343, 347.

Mission to France, v. 359 ; to England, vi. 113, 122, 125 ; to France, 209.

Mississippi, i. 408 ; ii. 17, 19, 109 ; navigation, 255, 293, 473 ; iv. 35, 48, 56, 60, 63, 65, 71 ;
v. 349 ; vi. 58 ; vii. 171, 217, 251, 254, 256, 271, 277, 278, 279, 596.

Mitchell, John, i. 100.

Monarchy, iv. 271, 273, 298 ; vi. 565.

Money, when in the treasury, iii. 449.

Monroe, James, v. 27, 48, 634; vi. 1, 88, 116, 129, 133, 137, 150, 159, 225, 226, 231, 261
389.

Montesquieu, vi. 388.

Montmorin, iv. 10 11 ; v. 449.

Morgan, General, v. 47, 50.

886 GENERAL INDEX.

Morocco, vi. 55 ; vii. 551.

Morris, Gouverneur, i. 12, 13, 27, 362, 417, 490 ; iv. 10, 31, 140, 157, 227, 307 ; v. 27 ; tj.

116, 120, 443.
Morris, Chief Justice, ii. 478, 470.
Morris, Kobert, i. 116, 159, 223, 264; appoints Hamilton-Continental Receiver, 278, 284,

299, 357, 358, 362, 364, 417 ; v. 474.
Mount Vernon, the capture of, vi. 132, 136.
Moustier, Count de, iv. 7, 8, 9, 11.
Mutint at Philadelphia, i. 374, 385, 386, 394, 395.
Murray, Vans, v. 216 ; vi. 396, 397, 399.

N.

Nash, vi. 431.

National Assembly, iv. 77, 78, 101, 304.

National Gazette, vii. 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 35, 36, 51.

Naturalization Laws, aholition of, vii. 771, 772, 774,775, 776.

Naval Officer, iv. 37.

Naval Stores, v. 89.

Navigation, French, iv. 97.

Navy, ii. 255; agent of marine, 261, 267; v. 283, 288, 595, 598; vi. 131, 177, 189, 214,
283, 285, 295 ; Secretary of, 303, 386, 417, 534 ; vi. 555, 614, 686 ; agents, 783.

Necker, iv. 7 ; v. 441, 448, 450, 451.

Negroes, arming and emancipation of, i. 76, 77, 214 ; slavery, 423 ; deportation of, ii..
251 ; representation of, 434 ; vi. 38 ; deportation of, vii. 190, 191, 192, 193, 207.

Nelson, Admiral, vi. 311.

Netherlands, United, iv. 37.

Neutrality, rules for preserving, iii. 574 ; iv. 36, 63, 357, 359 ; proclamation, 360, 361 .
circular, 392, 451, 452, 454, 457, 467, 475, 486; v. 553, 555, 559, 581, 595: vi. 150^
151; proclamation of, vii. 76, 77>(79 ; object, 82; policy, 93, 94, 114, 116; rights,
443, 448, 449, 451 ; armed, 453, 456, 458, 498, 593, 618, 632, 634.

Neuville, de, vi. 84, 192, 196.

Neville, Presby, v. 17.

New England, ii. 71.

Newfoundland, vii. 435.

New Hampshire, i. 456, 462, ii. 147.

New Jersey, i. 471 ; ii. 147 ; vi. 138.

New Plymouth, ii. 72, 73.

New- York, attack on, i. 28, 31, 347, 407 ; as to Constitution, 452, 455, 459, 460, 464, 469.
ii. 81, 147 ; v. 493 ; trespass act, 115, 116 ; vii. 197 ; fortification of, v. 141, 151, 291 J
vi. 212, 370, 404,405; election, 436; bank, 175, 176, 184; reply to, vii. 140, 141.

Nicholas, George, vi. 403.

Nicholson, v. 209.

Non Exportation, ii. 13, 21, 87.

Non Importation, effects of, ii. 13, 21, 28, 87, 98.

North, William, vi. 69, 365.

Notables, Assembly of, i. 433.

Nova Scotia, ii. 17.

GENERAL INDEX. 887

0.

Oath of Office, ii. 408.

O'Connor, vi. 372, 373.

Officers, Army, accounts of, i. 344, 346, 365; ii. 139 ; half pay, general, 144; appoint-
ment, 190; [of Congress, 200, 216;] appointment, 260, 262; v. 144, 145, 154, 155,
166, 167 ; distribution, 177, 178 ; pay and rations, 224, 255 ; appointment, 255, 266.
279 ; detached, 152 ; French, v. 545 ; foreign, debt to, iii. 92 ; iv. 279, 282, 307, 317 ;
of customs, compensation, iii. 68, 77, 79, 531, 544 ; superintendence of, 558 ; and
interpretation of laws, 559 ; compensation, 562, 564 ; of inspection duties, v. 404 ;
officers, public compensation, vii. 614 ; reduction, 780.

Office, definition of, vii. 805 ; how holden, 822.

0<sden, i. 23, vi. 335.

Oglethorpe, vii. 323.

Ohio, iv. 123, company, 220, 340, 344 ; v. 349.

Olney, Capt., i. 271, 484.

Organization of Troops, v. 166, 320, 321, 413.

Original Claimant, iv. 15.

Orleans, New, iv. 35, 58, 60, 71.

Osnaburgh, Bishop of, i. 443.

Osgood, Col., iv. 4.

Pacificus, v. 571.

Paine, Thomas, vi. 185, 225.

Paper Monet, ii. 368 ; iii. 124, 125, 278.

Papers, call for, vii. 556 ; reasons for refusing, 557, 559, 570.

Parker, iv. 78 ; v. 339, 353.

Parkinson's Ferry, v. 46.

Parliament, ii. 26, 42 ; Commons, power of, 52 ; supremacy, 60, 92, 289.

Passage, right of, iv. 48, 49.

Pay of Army, v. 224, 325, 374.

Paymaster General, ii. 148 ; v. 229, 233, 243, 376, 424, 425.

Peace, i. 321, 339, 346, 348 ; treaty of, 360, 362, 368, 396 ; vii. 205.

Peace Establlshment, i. 359, 410, 412.

Pendleton, Edmund, v. 563 ; vi. 526.

Pendleton, Nathaniel, vi. 62.

Pennsylvania, i. 28, 374, 381, 388, 393, 471 ; ii. 146 ; iv. 285, 287 ; insurrection, 291, 564,

566, 575; suppressed, 576 ; report on, 578; proclamation, 599, 600; v. 1, 3, 12, 13.

19, 22 ; proclamation, 31, 46, 53, 236, 237, 240, 262, 268, 522, 524, 530, 606, 608, 609,

610, 611, 613, 614, 617, 620 ; vi. 406 ; vii. 161, 162.
Peru, vi. 391.
Peters, EicnARD, v. 40.
Pftition, ii. 5, 9.
Petri, v. 69.
Pettit, v. 458.
Phelps, i. 324.

Philadelphia, i. 33; danger of, 34, 381 ; ii, 77; vi. 578, 579, 585.
Pichon, v. 217; vi. 425, 428.
Pickering, Timothy, i. 297, 306 ; v. 284 ; vii. 715.

888 GENERAL INDEX.

Pierce, Major, i. 438.

Pilots, regulation of, iv. 81.

Pinckney, C. C.j v. 149, 203. 204, 217 ; vi. 208, 211, 213, 221, 223, 230, 235, 241, 242, 246,
282, 283, 313, 319, 324, 326, 331, 333, 337, 342, 344, 350, 369, 436, 440, 444, 446, 452,
454, 457, 459, 461, 463, 464, 465, 471, 475, 481, 513; vii. 702, 724, 725.

Pinckney, Charles, vi. 559.

Pinckney, Thomas, vi. 113, 114, 131, 180, 186, 191, 197 ; vii. 694, 695, 697, 698, 699, 700.

Pirates, vii. 489, 492.

Pitt, William, ii. 90 ; v. 504 ; vi. 375.

Pittsburgh, v. 12, 15, 17, 53, 522, 524.

Poland, vii. 153.

Police of Army, v. 384.

Polly Sloop, iv. 424.

Population, i. 335 ; iv. 84.

Portsmouth, v. 309.

Portugal, vii. 438, 781.

Posts, i. 371, 398, 399; garrisoning, 405; ii. 248, 295; iv. 34, 63, 65; vii. 194, 195, 196..
217, 218, 219, 220, 223, 225, 226, 232.

Post Office, iii. 41 ; iv. 4, 95, 184, 326 ; v. 72.

Pot and Pearl Ash, v. 88.

Power, excess, ii. 187 ; want of, 188 ; jealousy of, 222 ; bigotry, 325 ; toleration, 326.

President, ii. 399 ; persons eligible, 407, 466 ; iv. 1, 2, 292, 342, 570 ; v. 472 ; vi. 186,
188, 191, 285; electors, 404, 439, 452; salary of, vii. 529, 533, 538, 539, 542, 543,
547, 548.

Press, liberty of defined, vii. 849 ; bow protected, 849.

Prisoners, i. 359, 363 ; ii. 149.

Privateers, French, iv. 394, 401, 403, 438, 440, 443, 462, 469, 565 ; v. 14, 572, 577, 579;
vii. 120, 121, 123, 134, 135, 136, 138, 312, 313, 314; letters of marque, French, 400,
487, 488, 491, 495; refitting and providing, 496, 497 ; French, 602, 603; prizes, iv.
192, 451, 462, 467, 468, 471, 532 ; compensation for, 569, 570, 571 ; sale of, vi. 154,
155, 161, 164, 165, 166 ; seizure of, vii. 124, 125, 126, 129 ; sale, 136 ; condemnation,
139 ; sale, 494, 495 ; French, when restored, 602, 603, 606.

Promotion, v. 170, 286, 303, 430, 435.

Property, power over, iv. 122.

Prosecutions, i. 413.

Providence, vi. 567.

Provisions, salted, v. 89.

Provision Order, vi. 29, 31, 33.

Prussia, vi, 313, 315, 375, 407, 408, 588 ; vii. 112, 153, 155 ; treaty with, 379, 781, 783.

Public Credit, i. 329, 347, 356 ; iii. 1, 2, 5, 44, 95 ; plan for improvement, 456 ; proposi-
tions to complete system, 483, 491 ; iv. 5, 83, 98, 443, 454, 481, 625, 627 ; vi. 4, 16 ;
sinking fund, 127 ; vii. 26.

Public Creditors, i. 310; iii. 3, 5, 15, 19, 24; v. 456, 457 ; address to, vi. 632.

Public Funds, books not inspected, iv. 166.

Public Interest, vi. 431.

Publius, ii. 156, 160.

Purdy, Judge, vi. 561, 562, 563, 565.

Puritans, ii. 73.

Purveyor of Military Supplies, v. 56, 62.

Putnam, Gen., i. 45, 48, 51, 55.

GENERAL INDEX.

88V)

Quarters, v. 308.

Quarter Master General's Department, ii. 225, 228 ; v. 175, 227, 243, 346, 416.

Quebec Bill, ii. 127.

R.

Randolph, Edmund, i. 451, 455; iv. 4; v. 13, 27, 30; vi. 1, 2, 19, 27, 28, 39, 40, 48, 52,

65, 66, 76, 78, 79.
Bank of Officers, v. 250, 286, 287, 290, 368.
Rastadt, vi. 312, 315.
Ration, v. 173, 179, 230, 370.
Rawle, Wm,, v. 40.
Recruiting, v. 139, 145, 161, 178, 203, 209, 211, 218, 226, 233, 239, 241, 253, 266, 267, 400,

401 ; vi. 400.
Regiments, completing, ii. 141 ; organization, 143, 146.
Regulations of Tactics, v. 181, 207, 292, 293, 309, 329.
Religion, ii. 25 ; established, 131, 135; Protestant, 136: toleration, 351; Christian,

vi. 542.
Remission of Duties, iii. 337.
Remittances, how made, v. 66, 627.
Remonstrance, ii. 5, 9.
Representation, its basis, ii. 188,425, 440, 455; iv. 5, 17; apportionment, 196, 197, 206,

209, 213.
Rensselaer, Van, v. 493 ; vi. 522.
„ Republic, Federal, ii. 201 ; rights in, 316, 320, 415, 446, 463 ; dangers of, iv. 271 :
theory, vi. 558.
Residence, v. 456.
Responsibility, v. 373.
Returns, Monthlv, v. 273, 305, 021.

Revenue, ii. 191, 192, 197; perpetuity, 212 ; sources, 222, 223 ; adoption of system, 333.
352, 365, 366 ; power, 456 ; exclusive, 457 ; iii. 31, 32, 33 ; collection, 35 ; duties, 36,
38 ; product, 40, 53 ; how payable, 68 ; collection, 98 ; indirect, why preferable, 101 :
moderate duties, 102, 103; diversification, 103 ; additional, 327, 330 ; ratesexamined,
334; additional, 340; plan, 341, 347, 348; account and expenditure, 411,433, 439 ;
statement, 458, 474; disposition, 475 ; statement, 479 ; plan for improvement, 529 ;
collection, 531, 537,538; duties, bonded, 542; tonnage, 543; collection, 54o; reve-
nue laws, breaches of, 547 ; actual measuring, &c, 550 ; vi. 190, 214, 296 ; vn. 687,
749, 750, 753, 755, 758, 759, 761.
Revenue Officers, iv. SI, 319, 324, 407, 487, 506, 568.
Reynolds, James, i. 440.

Rhode Island, attack on, i. 64, 67 ; evacuation, 97 ; refuses duty on imports, 322 ; de-
putation to, 322; opposition to plan funding debt, 366, 484; n. 75, 164, 212, 216,
232; v. 296.
Rice, v. 87.
Richmond, iv. 474.
Riflemen, v. 175, 227.
Rights, equality of, ii. 52, 61, 62, 80.
Robespierre, v. 13 ; vii. 662.
Rolls, Muster and Pay, v. 336.

890 GENERAL INDEX.

Eome, ii. 10, 61.

Russia, ii. 118 . treaty with, 248,259; commerce, iv. 100 ; v. 504; vi. 215, 260, 586;

vii. 153, 155.
Rutledge, vi. 24, 77.
Rouverie, S., Marquis de, vi. 405.

s.

Salt, ill. 52, 333.

Sarah, little, brigantine, iv. 438, 440, 443.

Savannah invested, i. 101, 103.

Schuyler, Philip, i. 135, 159 ; eastern convention,|169, 183, 185, 188, 191, 209, 210,.222,

266, 330; vi. 573, 591.
Scotland, ii. 103 ; vi. 309.
Sea, Jurisdiction iv. 480.

Search, right of, vii. 447, 448, 453, 465, 467.

Sears, Isaac, i. 189.

Secretary of State, iv. 4, 23 ; iii. 116 ; vi. 52, 53, 67, 160.

Secretary of the Treasury, iv. 5, 23, 35.

Sedgwick, Theodore, i. 476, 481, 483 ; vi. 498.

Sedition, vi. 387 ; law, vii. 738.

Senate, ii. 395, 397, 447, 451, 452, 466 ; vi. 9, 15, 19, 86, 392.

Sequestration, prohibited, iv. 526 ; vii. 326, 380, 340, 350, 354; effect of, 357, disadvan-
tages of, 358, 363, 376.

Segur, Madame, vi. 65.

Servants, public, iv. 40 ; army, v. 327, 3S6.

Seton, James, i. 416.

Settlement, iii. 16.

Shelburne Lord, i 346.

Ships, v. 90, 94.

Short, William, appointed minister to Hague, iv. 185, 308.

Silk, iii. 277.

Simcoe, Lt. Col., i. 106.

Sims, i. 23.

Skins, Manufacture, iii. 265.

Slaves, Fugitive, ii. 472.

Slaves, Manumission of, vi. 268.

Slavery, definition of, ii. 3, its effects, 9, 23, 86.

Smallwood, i. 36.

Smith, Col., v. 435.

Smith, Wm., v. 533; vi. 61.

Smuggling, effects of, iii. 36.

Snuff, iii. 51, 534.

Soldiers, discharge of, v. 303.

South America, iv. 34; v. 283 ; vi. 347, 348, 368, 390, 391, 402.

Spain, ii. 119, 120, 193 ; debt to, iv. 14, 15, 31, 35; conduct of, 55, 64, 66, 78; treatv
with, 189, 190, 192, 294; v. 247, 367 ; vi. 15, 19, 21, 55, 74, 376, 524; vii. 153, 171,
181, 185, 244 ; Colonial system, 384, 385, 435 ; negotiation with, 552, 596, 657.

Speculation, v. 465, 477, 480, 492, 510.

Spices, duties on, iii. 51.

Spinosa, ii. 58.

GENERAL INDEX. 891

Spirits, distilled, duties on, iii. 36, 52, 96, 97, 98, 100, 106, 192, 297, 299, 325, 338 ; rev-
enue from, 441, 442 ; collection, 532 ; iv. 241, 285, 288, 292 ; proclamation, 306, 311.
318, 325, 332, 338 ; report on opposition, 578 ; proclamation, 600.

Staff, General, vi. 310, 323.

State, suits against, v. 582.

State Creditors, iii. 15.

State Debts, iii. 50 ; v. 447, 455, 547 ; vi. 193.

States, Governors of, ii. 407.

State Legislatures, iv. 19 ; governments, 105, 148.

States, money received from, and paid to, iii. 80, 81.

States, New, how formed, ii. 408 ; artificial beings, 418 ; delinquencies of, 429 ; inter_
est, 433 ; powers, 436, 449 ; necessity, 459 ; influence, 461 ; jurisdiction, 462.

State Prejudices, i. 346 ; politics, 356.

St. Clair, General, i. 132, 378, 382, 383, 385.

St. Croix, vi. 115 ; boundary, vi. 139, 140 ; vii. 280, 284.

St. Domingo, iv. 328, 490 ; vi. 395, 398, 399.

Steuben, Baron de, i. 56, 72, 73, 83, 136, 139, 142, 143,263, 428, 430, 431, 448, 475 ; ii.
154, 223.

Stevens, Edward, i. 1 ; Consul-general to St. Domingo, vi. 398.

Stevens, Col., v. 141, 260.

Stirling, Lord, i. 21 ; vi. 586.

Stoddart, v. 285 ; vi. 303, 356 ; fort., v. 365.

Sugars, duty on, iii. 50 ; manufacture of, 280.

Supervisors, plan, compensation, v. 65.

Sullivan, General, i. 60, 85, 90, 111.

Supplies, Military, plan v. 241, 242, 251, 271, 286, 301, 324; regulations of, 329.

Supreme Court, ii. 395, 403, 460.

Surat, vii. 413.

Surgeons, ii. 151, 167.

Surveys, v. 182, 185.

Surveyor General, iii. 87.

Sweden, ii. 118 ; treaty with dissuaded, iv. 571 ; vii. 137, 181, 297, 298 ; treaty with, 427.

T.

Tactics, v. 181, 384, 407, 412, 419, 422, 427.

Talbot, v. 209 ; vi. 354.

Talleyrand, de Perigord, iv. 548; v. 593; vi. 231, 280, 313, 316, 357, 3G7, 413.

Taverns, license on, i. 211, 312.

Taxes, mode of collecting, i. 163, 310, 311, 332; general, 332, 333, 373; ii. 24, 124, 190 ;
poll, 195; arbitrary, evil of, 199; plan of, 204; collection, 208; house, 210;
carriage, 210 ; seal, 211 ; tavern, 211, 218, 241 ; collection, 347 ; poll, iii. 257 ; arbi-
trary, 258; power, iv. 120, 121; house, stamp, salt, vi. 190; direct, 193, 199, 253,
255, 256, 296, 349, 382, 385 ; vii. 737, 738, 830, 888 ; direct and indirect, 845, 848.

Tea, ii. 24, 26, 93 ; iii. 38, 104 ; duties classified, 530.

Ternant, vii. 398.

Territorial Eights, how determined, ii. 405.

Territory, alienation of, iv. 191.

Test Oaths, ii. 316, 317.

Thanksgiving, proclamation of, v. 61.

892 GENERAL INDEX.

TlLGHMAN, Col., i. 219.

Tillotson, i. 310.

Tobacco, iii. 51 ; v. 83.

Tonnage, duties on, iii. 59,60; collection, 61, 80, 543; admeasurement, 546 ; when
payable, 546; returns of, 548 ; vii. 430, 431.

Toussaint, vi. 395, 399.

Toussaed, Col., v. 140.

Trade, boards of, i. 127, 159; restriction on, ii. 9 ; regulating, 189, 194; promote ex-
ports, 221 ; iii. 5 ; Mediterranean, iv. 84 ; free, 99 ; with Britain and France, 185 ;
spoliations on, vi. 200, 205, 212, 248.

Transportation, v. 232.

Treason, attainders, ii. 288, 303 ; discriminations, 321 ; bill defining, vi. 307.

Treasury Bills, vi. 127.

Treasury Department, iii. 1.

Treasury Notes, vi. 349.

Treaty of Peace, ratification, i. 413.

Treaty, commercial, ii. 245 ; provisional, 238, 243, 252, 390 ; power of, 573, 293 295, 306,
308; validity, 408; of peace, infractions of, iv. 141, 143, 144; with France, effects
of, iv. 449 ; with Britain, 536, 552, 555 ; v. 29, 54, 106, 630, 632 ; vi. 5, 6, 9, 11, 12,
13, 14, 15, 17, 19, 23, 25, 27, 30, 34, 36, 38,41, 44, 46, 54, 58, 75, 77, 83, 86, 92, 102,
104, 106, 108, 110, 112, 130, 135, 139, 146, 161, 208, 252, 264; with France, 286 ; vii.
78, 85, 86, 118, 119, 120, 312, 318, 323; suspension of, 674; with Britain, 169, 172;
opposition to, 176, 177 ; results of, 178, 186 ; of peace, breaches first, 187 ; date of
execution, 195, 196; breaches of, 197,400; articles of, 214; performance of, 228,
230 ; indemnification, 233, 237. 242, 381 ; twelfth article rejected, 403, 404, 405 ;
East India trade, 409; with Europe, 420, 427, 429, 431, 436; constitutionality of,
501, 509, 518, 527 ; effects of, 665, 667, 738 ; treaty power, vi. 92, 93, 94, 95 ; vii.
284; examined, 502, 509, 518; under confederation, 521; over territory, 525;
where lodged, 559 ; objects, 560, 561; obligation of House of Keprcsentatives, 563;
its province and rights, 567.

Treaties, commercial, vii. 379 ; policy of, 380, 382.

Tripoli, vi. 212 ; vii. 745, 747.

Trumbull, v. 48.

Truxton, Capt. v. 209 ; vi. 376, 435.

Tyconderoga, i. 31.

Tyranny, vi. 307.

u

Uniform, v. 149, 170, 230, 256, 291, 385.

Union, i. 334; perpetuation of, 348, 402, 405; opposition to, 453; ii. 358, 373, 459; iii.
4 ; v. 4 ; its value, vii. 572, 578.

Uniontown, v. 47.

United States, situation of, iv. 61, 519 ; parties, 520; policy, 523, 531 ; v. 59, 461 ; vii.
117 ; means of assisting France, 144, 145, 146, 147 ; war in concert, 148 ; effects of,
150, 151, 154; people of, motives and conduct, 156, 160; condition, 167 ; true foreign
policy, 172; interest in peace, 181, 182, 183, 184; war or peace, 209; commercial
policy, 387— towards France, 395, 396 ; situation, 552 ; public opinion, 641 ; condi-
tion, 642, 654 ; conduct to France, 661, 662, 663 ; device armorial, 685.
.University of New- York, ii. 341 ; national, vii. 611.

GENERAL INDEX. 893

United Provinces, i. 331.

Unjegah or Peace Eiver, journey to, v. 612.

V.

Vacancies, v. 331, 332.

Valerius, vi. 59.

Van Staphorst, iv. 13, 37.

Varville, de, v. 441.

Vaughan, v. 52.

Venice, vii. 653.

Vermont, independence of, i. 324 ; ii. 374, 375, 466, 472, 478.

Vessels, registering and clearing, iii. 72 ; admeasurement, 73; transfer, 74; coasting
and fishing, 74, 75 ; manifests, 539 ; measuring, 551 ; new entry, 572 ; armed pro-
hibition of, vi. 238, 248, 258 ; American, vii. 433, 434 ; national treatment of, 493 :
disabled, 494.

Veto, iv. 21, 205; advice to interpose, vi. 129.

Vice-President, ii. 403, 405 ; iv. 147, 154 ; salary, 245.

Virginia, as to Constitution, i. 452, 455, 461, 463 ; ii. 70, 146, 235 ; iv. 245 ; answer to,
471 ; v. 245; resolve, v. 460, 461, 526, 555, 604, 609, 615, 619; vi. 392, 416, 468; act
of, vii. 200, 201, 202 ; officers debt to, iv. 15.

Volunteers, Mounted, v. 72 ; organization, v. 262.

w.

Wabash, iv. 67.

Wadswoth, Jeremiah, i. 83, 415 ; ii. 160.

Wagon, stao-e, v. 369.

War, articles of, ii. 150 ; iv. 61, 68, 69, 356 ; preparation urged, 492 ; measures advised,
506 ; vi. 390 ; in Europe, character of, vii. 683.

Waranzow, Count, v. 504.

Walker, Col, vi. 338, 342.

Washington, election, i. 492; re-election, iv. 235, 280, 393, 492, 496 ; death, v. 388; fu-
neral honors, 388 ; general order, 389, 391, 395 ; vi. 207, 344, 349, 415, 416, 418, 424,
482, 491 ; vii. 700, 832.

Wayne, Gen., i. 36, 86 ; iv. 344, 558 ; v. 15.

Wats and Means, report on iv. 193.

Wells, i. 342 ; Benjamin, vi. 432, 433.

Western Country, iv. 57, 60, 64, 66, 174.

West Indies, ii. 13, 108, 109 ; iv. 56 ; v. 29, 30 ; vi. 378 ; trade, v. 90 ; vii. 401, 408 ;
depredations in, 626.

West Point, condition of, i. 144, 173, 185; purchase of, iii. 82, 83, 84.

Whigism, its spirit, ii. 288, 289.

Whitmore, i. 440, 442.

Wilkinson, v. 159, 211, 212, 218, 247, 270, 277, 282, 302, 360.

Williams, Otho H., i. 79, 148.

Willink, iv. 12, 13, 37, 38, 46, 164, 186.

Wines, iii. 36, 52, 104.

Whiter Quarters, huts, v. 299, 341, 342.

Wolcott, Oliver, appointed Comptroller, iv.fl59, 161 ; v. 67, 73, 74, 467 ; vi/68, 344,|345,
351, 356, 361, 463, 479, 549.

Wood, manufacture, iii. 265 ; v. 86.

894 GENERAL INDEX.

Wool, iii. 276.
Wtcomb, Lord, v. 480.

X.

X. Y. Z., vi. 313.

Y.

Yates, ii. 478, 479 ; v. 493.
Yorktown, i. 404, vi. 556.

1.

ERRATA

Vol. i., p. 20, for " Edminston " read " Edmonson."
144, for " We," line 17 from top, read " He."
227, for " some," line 13 from top, read "same."
225, in second line, before " have " read " will."
324, at bottom, for " decicisely " read " decisively."
419, for " Clarkeson " read " Clarkson."
Vol. ii., p. 396, in line 3 from bottom, omit " shall."

397, for " full," in line 19 from top, read "first."

in line next to bottom, for " not be less " read " be not less.'

399, in line 9 from top, for " shall be not" read " shall not be."
in last line, omit " individually."

400, in lines 16 and 17 from top, for "Junior " read " Senior."

402, in line 15 from top, for " finances" read " finance."
in line 23 from top, for " office " read " offices."

in line 32 from top, for "or" read " nor."

403, in line 14 from top, for "and" read "who."

404, before " Impeachments." in line 14 from top, read " Sec. ii.
in line 29 from top, omit " a."

407, in line 8 from top, before " its" read " to."

408, in line 21 from top, after " more " read " States."
Vol. iv., p. 595, for"Smilee" read "Smilic,"

OCT 2 7 1933


===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 8) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander08hami/worksofalexander08hami_djvu.txt

H*r

^

BOOK 973.4.H18 V.8 c. 1
HAMILTON # WORKS

^^^Si-^eQ&^^^S-fe,-

Constitutional jEMtlon

The Works of

e

lOO-

Alexander Hamilton

Edited by

Henry Cabot Lodge

^* The sacred rights of mankind are not to be rummaged for among old parchments or
musty records. They are written, as with a sunbeam, in the whole volume of human nature,
by the hand of the Divinity itself, and can never be erased or obscured by mortal power."

[Hamilton— Z/^^ Farmer Refuted^ ^IIS-, ■^^- i8.]

" We are laboring hard to establish in this country principles more and more national^
and free from all foreign ingredients, so that we may be neither ' Greeks nor Trojans,' but
truly Americans." — [Hamilton to King, 1796, Rx.. 39.]

Volume VIII

G. P. Putnam's Sons
New York and London
^be fcnickecbocKer ipresa

Ube fintcfierboc^et ^ress, Dew l^rfc

CONTENTS

PAGE

Miscellaneous Papers:

Cincinnati 3

Speeches in the New York Assembly, 1787 . 5

Speech on Acceding to the Independence of

Vermont ....... 42

EuLOGiuM on Major-General Greene . . 63
Presidential Etiquette:

Hamilton to Washington .... 83

Washington to Hamilton . . . . 87

Public Lands:

Report of a Uniform System for the Dis-
position OF THE Lands, the Property
OF THE United States .... 87

Heads of Topics for President's Speech

OF December 8, 1790 .... 94

Apportionment of Representatives: — Ham-
ilton TO Washington .... 95

Indian Affairs ...... 100

President's Speech ..... 102

Indian Affairs . . ,. . . . 109

Convening Congress: — Hamilton to Wash-
ington . . . . . . .110

Objects to be Communicated in Speech and

Messages . . . . . . .115

President's Speech . . . . .116

President's Message . . . . .119

Proclamation for a National Thanksgiving. 120
IV

Contents

Miscellaneous Papers — Continued:

Explanation . . . . . . .122

Washington's Speech to Congress . . 153
Message for Washington to Congress in
Reply to a Call for Papers Relating

to the Treaty with Great Britain . 161

Farewell Address ...... 181

Washington's Farewell Address . . . 187

Part of Washington's Speech to Congress . 214
Address to the Electors of the State op

New York 'Ssi 223

Examination of Jefferson's Message to

Congress of December 7, 1801 . . 246

Lansing or Burr 373

Law Briefs ....... 376

Carriage Tax ....... 378

The Law of Libel . . . . . . 383

Speech in the Case of Harry Croswell . 387

Fragment on the French Revolution . . 425

Defence of the Funding System . . . 429

\

MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS

VOL. VIII. — 1.

MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS

CINCINNATI ^

New York, July 6, 1786.

'X'HE committee to whom was referred the pro-
^ ceedings of the Society of the Cincinnati, at
their last general meeting, beg leave to report, that
they have attentively considered the alterations pro-
posed at the meeting to be made in the original Con-
stitution of that Society ; and, though they highly
approve the motives which dictated those alterations,
they are of opinion it would be inexpedient to adopt
them, and this chiefly on the two following accounts :
''First. — Because the institution, as proposed to
be altered, would contain in itself no certain pro-
vision for the continuance of the Society, beyond
the lives of the present members ; this point being
left to the regulation of charters, which may never be

I The Society of the Cincinnati, founded in 1783, by the Revolu-
tionary officers, excited a great deal of foolish hostility on account of
what were considered its perilous aristocratic military and hereditary
features. Prejudice was so strong that modifications were considered
necessary, and were finally made in accordance with the advice of
Washington, President of the Society. The main alterations were
made in 1784, at the first general meeting, but the question continued
to be mooted for some years, and was kept active by the formation of
the State Societies, and it was n this connection that the above report
was written.

4 Alexander Hamilton

obtained, and which, in the opinion of this commit-
tee, so far as affects this object, ought never to be
granted, since the dangers apprehended from the
institution could then only cease to be imaginary,
when it should receive the sanction of a legal estab-
lishment. The utmost the Society ought to wish or
ask from the several legislatures is, to enable it to
appoint trustees to hold its property, for the charita-
ble purposes to which it is destined."

'' Second. — Because by a fundamental article it
obliges the Society of each State to lend its funds to
the State ; a provision which would be improper, for
two reasons: one, that in many cases the Society
might be able to dispose of its funds to a much
greater advantage; the other, that the State might
not always choose to borrow from the Society."

But while the committee entertained this opin-
ion with respect to the proposed alterations, they
are, at the same time, equally of opinion, that some
alterations in the original Constitution will be
proper, as well in deference to the sense of many of
our fellow citizens, as in conformity to the true
spirit of the institution itself. The alterations they
have in view respect principally the duration or
succession of the Society, and the distinction be-
tween honorary and regular members. As to the
first, the provision intended to be made appears to
them to be expressed in terms not sufficiently ex-
plicit; and, as far as it may intend, an hereditary
succession by right of primogeniture, is liable to this
objection — that it refers to birth what ought to belong
to merit only: a principle inconsistent with the genius

The New York Assembly 5

of the Society founded on friendship and patriotism.
As to the second, the distinction holds up an odious
difference between men who have served their coun-
try in one way, and those who have served it in an-
other, and improper in a Society where the character
of patriot ought to be an equal title to all its members.
The committee, however, decline proposing any
specific substitute for the parts of the original con-
stitution which appear to them exceptionable; as
they are of opinion any alterations necessary to be
made can only be digested in a general meeting of
the Society, specially authorized to agree upon and
finally establish those alterations. With a view to
this, they beg leave to recommend that a circular-
letter be written from the Society to the different
State Societies, suggesting the expediency of in-
structing and empowering their delegates at the
next general meeting, to concur in such alterations
as may appear to that meeting proper, after a full
communication of what shall be found to be the
sense of the several Societies.

SPEECHES IN THE NEW YORK ASSEMBLY,

1787^

JANUARY 19TH. — SPEECH ON THE ANSWER OF THE
HOUSE TO GOVERNOR CLINTON 'S MESSAGE^

This now leads us to examine the important ques-
tion presented to us by the proposed amendment.

' These Speeches, with the exception of that on the Independence of
Vermont, are now included for the first time in Hamilton's Works.
They are taken from the contemporary newspaper report.

2 Congress had asked for an extra session of the Legislature, to

6 Alexander Hamilton

For my own part, I have seen with regret the pro-
gress of this business, and it was my earnest wish
to have avoided the present discussion. I saw with
regret the first appHcation of Congress to the Gover-
nor, because it was easy to perceive that it involved
a delicate dilemma: Either the Governor, from con-
sideration of inconvenience, might refuse to call the
Assembly, which would derogate from the respect
due to Congress; or he might call them, and, by
being brought together at an unreasonable period
before the time appointed by law for the purpose,
they would meet with reluctance and perhaps with
a disposition less favorable than might be wished to
the views of Congress themselves.

I saw, with equal regret, the next step of the busi-
ness. If a conference had been desired with Con-
gress, it might have been had — circumstances might
have been explained; reasons might have been as-
signed satisfactory to them for not calling the Legis-
lature, and the affair might have been compromised.
But instead of this, the Governor thought fit to an-
swer by a flat denial, founded on a constitutional
amendment, and the idea of an invasion of the right
of free deliberation was brought into view. I earn-
estly wished the matter to have rested here. I
might appeal to gentlemen in the House — and par-
ticularly to the honorable gentleman who is so zeal-
ous in support of the amendment — that, before the

reconsider their action as to granting revenue, and Governor Clinton
had refused to call an extra session as requested. This was the point
involved in the debate on the answer of the House to the Governor's
message, which drew with it approval or censure of the Governor's
course.

The New York Assembly 7

speech appeared, I discovered a solicitude that, by
passing the subject over in silence, it might give
occasion to the present discussion.

H( He H: Hi H( H(

The question by the honorable member on my
right has been wrongly stated. He says it is this:
whether a request of Congress to convene the Legis-
lature is conclusive upon the Governor of the State?
or whether a bare intimation of that honorable body
lays him under a constitutional necessity of con-
vening the Legislature? But this is not the true
question. From the shape in which the business
comes before us, the inquiry truly is: whether a
solemn application of the United States to the Ex-
ecutive of the State to convene the Legislature for
the purpose of deliberating on a matter which is
considered by that body as of essential importance
to the Union, and which has been viewed in a similar
light by most of the other States individually, is
such an extraordinary occasion as left the Governor
under no constitutional impediment to a compliance ?
And, it may be added, whether that application,
under all the circumstances, was an attempt to in-
vade the freedom of deliberation in this House ?

Here let us ask, what does the Constitution say
upon the subject? Simply this, that the governor
"shall have power to convene the Assembly and
Senate on extraordinary occasions." But what is
an extraordinary occasion? What circumstances
are to concur, what ingredients combine, to consti-
tute one? What general rule can be imagined by
which to define the precise meaning of these vague

8 Alexander Hamilton

terms, and draw the line between an ordinary and
an extraordinary occasion? Will the gentleman on
my right (that is, the ever-ready-to-jump-up-in-a-
Jack-in-the-box - fashion - to-say-it-is-n 't- when- A . -H . -
says-it-is Mr. Jones) furnish us with such a criterion?
Profoundly skilled as he is in law (at least the local
laws of the State) , I fancy it will be difficult for him
to invent one that will suit his present purpose. Let
him consult his law books, they will not relieve his
embarrassment. It is easy to see that the clause
allows the greatest latitude to opinion. What one
may think a very extraordinary occasion, another
may think a very ordinary one, according to his bias,
his interest, or his intellect.

If there is any rule at all, it is this: the governor
shall not call the Legislature with a view to the ordi-
nary details of the State administration. Whatever
does not fall within this description, and has any
pretensions to national importance in any view,
leaves him at liberty to exercise the discretion vested
in him by the Constitution. There is at least no
constitutional bar in the way. The United States
are entrusted with the management of the general
concerns and interests of the community ; they have
the power of war and peace ; they have the power of
treaty.

Our affairs with respect to foreign nations are left
to their direction. We must entertain very diminu-
tive ideas of the Government of the Union, to con-
ceive that their earnest call on a subject which they
deem of great national magnitude, which affects
their engagements with two respectable foreign pow-

The New York Assembly 9

ers, France and the United Netherlands, which relates
to the preservation of their faith at home and abroad,
is not such an occasion as would justify the Execu-
tive, upon the terms of the Constitution, in conven-
ing the Legislature. If this doctrine is maintained,
where will it lead to ? what kind of emergency must
exist before the Constitution will authorize the Gov-
ernor to call the Legislature ? Is the preservation of
our national faith a matter of such trivial moment?
Is the fulfilment of the public engagements, domestic
and foreign, of no moment? Must we wait for the
fleets of the United Netherlands or of France to en-
force the observance of them, before the Executive
will be at liberty to give the Legislature an oppor-
tunity of deliberating on the means of their just de-
mand? This is straining the indefinite words of
the Legislature to a most unreasonable extreme. It
would be a tenable position to say that the call of the
United States is alone sufficient to satisfy the idea
of an extraordinary occasion. It is easy to conceive
that such a posture of European affairs might exist
as would render it necessary to convene the different
Legislatures to adopt measures for the public safety,
and at the same time inexpedient to disclose the ob-
ject till they were assembled. Will we say that Con-
gress would be bound to communicate the object of
their call to the Executive of every State; or that
the Executive of this State, in complying with their
request, would be guilty of a violation of the Con-
stitution? But the present case is not that of a
mere general request; it is specifically to deliberate
upon an object of acknowledged importance in one

lo Alexander Hamilton

view or another. On one hand it is alleged to be es-
sential to the honor, interest, and perhaps the exist-
ence of the Union; on the other, it is said to be on
principles subversive of the Constitution and dan-
gerous to the liberty of the subject. It is therefore
a matter of delicacy and moment. And the urgent
call of the Union to have it considered, cannot fall
within the notion of so common and so ordinary an
occasion as would prohibit the Executive from sum-
moning a meeting of the Legislature.

The only argument urged to denominate it such,
is that it had been recently determined upon by the
Legislature. But there is an evident fallacy in this
position. The call was addressed to a new and
different body, really different in the contemplation
of the Constitution, and materially different in fact
with respect to the members who compose it. A
large proportion of the members of the present
House were not the members of the last. For
aught that either Congress or the Governor could
officially know, there might have been a total change
in the individuals, and, therefore, a total difference
in the sentiments. No inference, of course, could
be fairly drawn from the conduct of the last Legis-
lature to that of the present. Indeed, however it
might be wished to prepossess the members of the
former House with a contrary idea, it is plain that
there is no necessary connection between what they
did at that time and what it may be proper for them
to do now. The act of the last session proves the
conviction of the House then, that the grant of the
impost was an eligible measure. Many members

The New York Assembly n

were led to suppose that it would answer the pur-
pose, and might have been accepted by Congress.
If the experiment has shown that they were mistaken
in their expectations, and if it should appear to them
that Congress could not for good reasons accept it,
the same motives which induced them to the grant
already made, would determine them to consent to
such alterations as would accommodate it to the
views of Congress and the other States, and make it
practicable to carry the system into execution.

It may be observed that as Congress accompanied
their request with an explanation of the object, they,
by that mode of procedure, submitted the whole
matter to the discretion of the Governor, to act ac-
cording to the estimate formed in his own mind as
to its importance.

It is not denied that the Governor had a discre-
tion upon the occasion. It is not contended that he
was under a constitutional necessity to convene the
Legislature. The resolution of Congress itself does
not imply or intimate this. They do not pretend to
require, they only earnestly recommend. The Gov-
ernor might at his peril refuse, responsible, however,
for any ill consequences that might have attended
his refusal. But the thing contended for is this:
that the call of the United States, under the circum-
stances, was sufficient to satisfy the terms of the
Constitution empowering him to convene the Legis-
lature on extraordinary occasions; and left him at
full liberty to comply.

The admission of his discretion does not admit
that it was properly exercised, nor does it admit that

12 Alexander Hamilton

the footing upon which he placed his refusal was
proper. It does not admit that the Constitution in-
terposed an obstacle in his way, or that the request
of Congress implied any thing hostile to the right of
free deliberation.

This is the aspect under which the business pre-
sents itself to our consideration, as well from the cor-
respondence between Congress and the Governor, as
from the manner in which it is ushered to us in the
speech. A general approbation of his conduct is an
approbation of the principle by which it is professed
to have been actuated.

Are we ready to say that the Constitution would
have been violated by a compliance ? Are we ready to
say that the call upon us to deliberate is an attempt
to infringe the freedom of deliberation ? If we are not
ready to say both, we must reject the amendment.

In particular, I think it must strike us all that
there is something singularly forced in intimating
that the application of Congress to the Governor of
the State to convene a new Legislature to consider
a very important national subject, has any thing in
it dangerous to the freedom of our deliberations.

I flatter myself we should all have felt ourselves as
much at liberty to have pursued our sentiments if we
had met upon an extraordinary call, as we do now
when met according to our own appointments. There
yet remains an important light in which the subject
merits consideration. I mean as it respects the au-
thority of the State itself: By deciding that the ap-
plication of Congress, upon which the debate turns,
was not such an extraordinary occasion as left the

The New York Assembly 13

Governor at liberty to call the Legislature, we may
form a precedent of a very dangerous tendency; we
may impose a sense on the Constitution very differ-
ent from the true meaning of it, and may fetter the
present or a future executive with very inconvenient
restraints. A few more such proceedings may tie
up the hands of the Governor in such a manner as
would either oblige him to act at an extreme peril,
or to omit acting when public exigencies required it.
The mere sense of one governor would be no pre-
cedent for his successor; but that sense, approved by
both Houses of the Legislature, would become a rule
of conduct. Suppose a few more precedents of the
kind, on different combinations of circumstances
equally strong, and let us ask ourselves : What would
be the situation of the Governor whenever he came
to deliberate on the propriety of exercising the dis-
cretion in this respect vested in him by the Constitu-
tion? Would he not be apt to act with a degree of
caution, or, rather, timidity, which, in certain emer-
gencies, might be productive of very pernicious con-
sequences? A mere intimation of the Constitution
to him not to call the Legislature in their recess upon
every trifling affair, which is its true import, would
be turned into an injunction not to do it but upon
occasions of the last necessity.

We see, therefore, that the question upon which
we are called to decide is not less delicate as it re-
spects the Constitution of the State itself, than as it
respects the Union ; and that, in every possible view,
it is most prudent to avoid the determination. Let
the conduct of the Governor stand on its own merits.

14 Alexander Hamilton

If he was right, our approbation will not make him
more right; if he was wrong, it would be improper
to sanction his error.

Several things have been said in the debate which
have no connection with it; but to prevent their
making improper impressions, it may not be amiss to
take some notice of them. The danger of a power
in Congress to compel the convening of the Legisla-
ture at their pleasure has been strongly insisted upon.
It has been urged that, if they possessed it, they
might make it an engine to fatigue the Legislature
into a compliance with their measures. Instances of
an abuse of a like power in the Crown under the
former government have been cited.

It is a sufficient answer to all this to say that no
such power has been contended for. I do not assert
that their request obliged the Governor to convene
the Legislature. I only maintain that their request
on an important national subject was such an occa-
sion as left him free to do it without any color for
imputing to him a breach of the Constitution ; and
that, from motives of respect to the Union, and to
avoid any further degradation of its authority, al-
ready at too low an ebb, he ought to have complied.
Admitting, in the fullest extent, that it would be
dangerous to allow to Congress the power of requir-
ing the Legislature to be convened at pleasure, yet
no injury nor inconvenience can result from suppos-
ing the call of the United States upon a matter by
them deemed of importance to be an occasion suffi-
ciently extraordinary to authorize not to oblige the
governor to comply with it.

The New York Assembly 15

I cannot forbear remarking that it is a common
artifice to endeavor to insinuate a resemblance be-^i
tween the king under the former government and I
Congress, although no two things could be more :
unlike each other. Nothing can be more dissimilar
than a monarch, permanent, hereditary, the source
of honor and emolument; and a republican body,
composed of individuals appointed annually, liable
to be recalled within the year, and subject to a con-
tinual rotation, which, with few exceptions, is the
fountain neither of honor nor emolument. If we
will exercise our judgments, we shall plainly see that
no such resemblance exists, and that all inferences
deducted from the comparison must be false.

Upon every occasion, however foreign such ob-
servations may be, we hear a loud cry raised about
the danger of intrusting power to Congress ; we are ,
told it is dangerous to trust power anywhere; that I
power is liable to abuse, — with a variety of trite max- '
ims of the same kind. General propositions of this na-
ture are easily framed, the truth of which cannot be
denied, but they rarely convey any precise idea. To
these we might oppose other propositions, equally
true and equally indefinite. It might be said that
too little power is as dangerous as too much ; that it
leads to anarchy, and froni anarchy to despotism.
But the question still recurs: What is the too much
or too little? Where is the measure or standard to
ascertain the happy mean?

Power must be granted, or civil society cannot
exist ; the possibility of abuse is no argument against
the thing. This possibility is incident to every

1 6 Alexander Hamilton

species of power, however placed or modified. The
United States, for instance, have the power of war
and peace; it cannot be disputed that conjunctures
might occur in which that power might be turned
against the rights of the citizen. But where can we
better place it? In short, where else can we place
it at all ?

In our State constitutions, we might discover
powers liable to be abused to very dangerous pur-
poses. I shall instance only the council appoint-
ments. In that council the governor claims and
exercises the power of nominating to all others.

This power of nomination, in its operation,
amounts to a power of appointment, for it can always
be so managed as to bring in persons agreeable to
him and exclude all others. Suppose a governor
disposed to make this an instrument of personal
influence and aggrandizement ; suppose him inclined
to exclude from office all independent men, and to
fill the different departments of the State with persons
devoted to himself, what is to hinder him from doing
it ? Who can say how far the influence arising from
such a prerogative might be carried? Perhaps this
power, if closely inspected, is a more proper subject
of republican jealousy, than any power possessed by
or asked by the United States — fluctuating and vari-
able as this body is. But as my intention is not to
instil any unnecessary jealousies, I shall prosecute
these observations no further. They are only urged
to show the imperfections of himian institutions, and
to confirm the principle that the possibility of a
power being abused is no argimient against its exist-

The New York Assembly 17

ence. Upon the whole, let us venture with caution
upon constitutional ground. Let us not court nor
invite discussions of this kind. Let us not endeavor
still more to weaken and degrade the Federal Govern-
ment by heaping fresh marks of contempt on its
authority. Perhaps the time is not far distant when
we may be inclined to disapprove what we now seem
anxious to commend, and may wish we had cherished
the Union with as much zeal as we now discover
apprehension of its encroachment.

I hope, Mr. Chairman, the House will not agree
to the amendment. In saying this I am influenced
by no other motive than a sense of duty. I trust my
conduct will be considered in this light. I cannot
give my consent to put any thing upon our minutes
which, it appears to me, we may one day have
occasion to wish obliterated from them.

January 2jd

[The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole on the
paragraph in the election bill enabling the inspector to take aside any
ignorant person and examine him privately touching his ballot. A
debate arose.]

Col. Hamilton thought it was very apparent, if
the clause prevailed, that it would tend to increase
rather than prevent an improper influence. For,
though an inspector takes an oath that his conduct
shall be impartial, yet he can easily interpret the
oath so as to correspond with his own wishes. If
he is an honest man, he will think the public good
concerned in promoting a candidate to whom he is
attached; and under this impression may see no
harm in recommending him to a person offering his

VOL. VIII.— 2.

t8 Alexander Hamilton

vote. His suggestion will be generally attended
with success, and the consequence will be that the
inspector will have the disposition of the votes of
almost all unlettered persons in favor of the party to
which he inclines. Here, then, is a more concentred
influence over the illiterate and uninformed part of
the community, than they would have been subject
to if left to themselves. Here they will be liable to
an influence more dangerous than the one we wish
to avoid. The question then is, whether it is better
to leave them to an accidental influence or imposi-
tion, or to subject them to a more regular and exten-
sive influence. The appointment of inspectors will
then become more than it is, an object of party, and
it will always be in their power to turn the scale of a
contested election. On the contrary, if the voters
are left to themselves, the activity of the different
parties will make the chance equal; and the influ-
ence on one hand will be balanced by an equal degree
on the other. I move we strike out the clause.

[Mr. Jones did not agree; thought inspector's influence would be
good, he being under oath, and a man of reputation. Mr. Harper
thought inspectors should be obliged not to mention, nominate, or
propose any person whatever.]

Col. Hamilton observed this was one of those sub-
jects more plausible in theory than practice. The
gentleman's reply did not answer, nor could it, the
objections he had made. The question is, whether
it is better to let the illiterate take the chance of im-
position from two parties equally active, the imposi-
tion of the one side being equally balanced by the
exertions of the other, or leave it to party views con-

The New York Assembly 19

centred in one person on whom the certain fate of
the election depends. I do not mean to impeach the
actions of the inspectors, for at present they can
have little bias; but if the clause takes place, though
an inspector means to do his duty impartially, yet I
believe his friendly attention to A being more than
to B will lead us to conceive that he will have little
scruple to ask for the vote for A, whom he recom-
mends to be as good or a better person than the
other. Now if this happen, sure, there are very few
ignorant persons but will be greatly influenced by
such inspectors, and on them turns the fate of the
elections. There is also another reason which should
induce us not to admit the proposed mode: it will
occasion a great delay, as some inspectors will have
to take down and examine the tickets proposed by
the illiterate, while the others will find it difficult to
attend to the polls. There is therefore the objec-
tion of delay as well as influence to avoid, which
makes it necessary to strike out the clause altogether.
I repeat once more it is better to leave them to par-
ties who are equal in their exertions, equally send
about tickets, and whose chance of influence is equal.

[After more debate the question was put on striking out, and lost.]

January 24th

[The House went into a Committee of the Whole on the election bill.
A debate arose upon the clause authorizing the inspector, or any other
I>erson offering himself to poll, to take an oath of abjuration of ecclesi-
astical as well as civil obedience. Mr. Jones did not think it proper to
make alteration. Oath of naturalization provides for this point. He
went on ground of Constitution, and no other. House could not make
any alteration.]

Mr. Hamilton declared the Constitution to be their

20 Alexander Hamilton

creed and standard, and ought never to be departed
from ; but in the present instance it was proper first
to examine how far it applied to the subject under
consideration: that there were two different bodies
in the State to which this has reference; these were
the Roman Catholics already citizens and those com-
ing from abroad. Between these two were great
distinctions. The foreigner who comes among us
and will become a citizen, who wishes a naturaliza-
tion, may with propriety be asked these terms ; it
may be necessary he should abjure his former
sovereign. For the natural subject, the man bom
amongst us, educated with us, possessing our man-
ners, with an equally ardent love of his native
country, to be required to take the same oath of
abjuration — what has he to abjure? He owes no
fealty to any other power upon earth ; nor is it likely
his mind should be led astray by bigotry or the in-
fluence of foreign powers. Then, why give him oc-
casion to be dissatisfied with you, by bringing forward
a test which will not add to his fidelity? Moreover,
the clause in the Constitution confines this test to
foreigners, and, if I am not misinformed, it was not
till after much debate and warm contention that it
got admittance, and then only by a small majority in
the convention.

It was a question with him whether it was proper
to propose this test in the case before them. But he
was decidedly against going so far as to extend it to
ecclesiastical matters. Why should we wound the
tender conscience of any man? and why present
oaths to those who are known to be good citizens?

The New York Assembly 21

Why alarm them? Why set them upon inquiry
which is useless and unnecessary? You give them
reason to suppose that you expect too much of them,
and they cannot but refuse compliance. The Con-
stitution does not require such a criterion to try
the fidelity of any citizen. It is solely intended for
aliens and foreigners coming from abroad, with man-
ners and habits different from our own, and whose
intentions are concealed.

Instead, Mr. Chairman, of going so far, I would
propose to stop at the word State, and strike out all
that followed. Then it would read thus:

''I, , do swear, etc., that I renounce and ab-
jure all allegiance and obedience to the king of
Great Britain, etc., and to every foreign king, prince,
power, potentate, and state."

This will bind the person only in civil matters, and
is all that we ought or can require. A man will not
then be alarmed in his interpretation, and it will not
set his mind to inquire if his religious tenets are
affected, and how much inconvenience would be
avoided. Again, sir, we should be cautious how we
carry the principle of requiring and multiplying tests
upon our fellow-citizens, so far as to practise it to the
exclusion and disfranchisement of any. And as a
doubt must arise with every member on the pro-
priety of extending this abjuration oath, it will be
their best mode to decide for the amendment, as in
all cases where there is a doubt it is our duty to
oppose the measure.

[Mr. Harper thought oath a proper one, and should vote for it.]

Mr. Hamilton mentioned again that, so far as the

22 Alexander Hamilton

Constitution went, it was a rule, and must be
adopted, but he questioned the propriety of extend-
ing it.

[Whole clause, without amendment, was agreed to.]

[Another clause in the bill ordered the judges of election for gover-
nor and lieutenant-governor to destroy the whole ballot of every dis-
trict where there was an excess of even one vote.]

Mr. Hamilton showed this to be a very great in-
justice to the district, as it was in the power of the
clerk or any officer, by putting in an additional bal-
lot, to set aside the votes of five hundred persons;
he therefore moved that, in any case where there was
an excess, such excess should be destroyed by lot.

[Motion opposed by Mr. Jones and adopted.]

January 2yth

[Discussion on clause in election bill prohibiting pensioners, and
officers tmder Congress from sitting in Assembly or Senate. Question
arose whether the Legislature possessed the power of abridging the
constitutional rights of the people.]

Mr. Hamilton observed they were going on dan-
gerous ground. The best rule the committee could
follow was that held out in the Constitution, which
it would be safest to adhere to without alteration or
addition. If we once depart from this rule, there is
no saying where it will end. To-day, a majority of
the persons sitting here, from a particular mode
of thinking, disqualify one description of men. A
future Legislature, from a particular mode of think-
ing in another point, disqualify another set of men.
One precedent is the pretext of another, till we
narrow the ground of qualifications to a degree sub-
versive of the spirit of the Constitution. It is impos-
sible to suppose that the convention who framed the

The New York Assembly 23

Constitution were inattentive to this point. It is a
matter of too much importance not to have been
well considered; they have fixed the qualifications
of electors with precision ; they have defined those of
senator and governor, but they have been silent as to
the qualifications of members of Assembly. It may
be said that, being silent, they have left the matter
to the discretion of the Legislature. But is not the
language of the framers of the Constitution rather
this: We will fix the qualifications of electors; we
will take care that persons absolutely indigent shall
be excluded; we will provide that the right of voting
shall be on a broad and secure basis; and we will
trust to the discretion of the electors themselves the
choice of those who are to represent them in Assem-
bly. Every qualification implies a disqualification.
The persons who do not possess the qualification
required are ineligible. Is not this to restrain the
freedom of choice allowed by the Constitution to the
body of electors? An improper exercise of this lib-
erty cannot constitutionally be presumed. Why,
therefore, should we circumscribe it within limits
unknown to the Constitution? Why should we
abridge the rights of any class of citizens in so im-
portant an article?

By the Constitution every citizen is eligible to a
seat in the Assembly. If we say certain descriptions
of persons shall not be so eligible, what is this but
to deprive all those who fall within that description
of an essential right allowed them by the Constitu-
tion ?

I have observed that if we once break the ground

24 Alexander Hamilton

of departing from the simple plan of the Constitu-
tion, it may lead us much further than we now in-
tend. From the prevalency of a certain system it is
now proposed to exclude all persons from seats who
hold offices under Congress. The pretence is to
guard against an improper influence. I may think
another species of influence more dangerous. I have
taken notice, upon a former occasion, of the decisive
agency of the Executive in the appointment of all
officers. If the persons who derive their official ex-
istence from that source sit in this House, it cannot
be denied that it might give the executive an undue
influence in the Legislative deliberations. If, in the
vicissitude of human events, a majority of a future
Legislature should view the subject in this light, and
if the principle of a right to admit disqualifications
unknown to the Constitution be admitted in prac-
tice, all persons holding office under the State would
then be excluded. I wish here to be clearly under-
stood. I mean only to reason on general principles,
without any particular reference whatever. I have
hitherto confined myself to the general principle of
the clause. There are, however, particular objec-
tions. One just occurs to me: there are officers
who have been wounded in the service, and who now
have pensions under the United States as the price
of their blood; would it be just, would it not be
cruel on this account to exclude men from a share in
the government which they have at every hazard
contributed to establish? This instance strikes me;
other members may probably think of other cases
equally strong against the exclusion ; further reflec-

The New York Assembly 25

tions may suggest others that do not now occur. If
the committee, however, should resolve to adopt it;
for the sake of consistency they must carry it one
step further — they must say that no member of
Congress shall hold a seat. For surely if it be dan-
gerous that the servants of Congress should have a
seat in this House, it is more dangerous that the
members themselves should be allowed this privilege.
But I would not be understood to advocate this
extension of the clause. I am against the whole
business. I am for adhering to the present pro-
visions of the Constitution. I repeat, if we once break
the ground of innovation, we may open the door to
mischief which we neither know nor think of.

[Mr. Jones opposes Mr. H.'s opinion and wishes clause retained.]

Mr. Hamilton. — I still continue, Mr. Chairman, of
the same opinion on this subject. The more I con-
sider the matter, the more forcibly am I struck that
it will be dangerous to introduce qualifications un-
known to the Constitution. Is it possible to sup-
pose the framers of the Constitution were inattentive
to this important subject, or that they did not
maturely consider the propriety of annexing qualifica-
tions to the elected? From the silence of the Con-
stitution it is inferred that it was intended to leave
this point to the discretion of the Legislature. I
rather infer that the intention of the Constitution
was to leave the qualifications of their representa-
tives wholly to the electors themselves. The lan-
guage of the Constitution : Let us take care that the
persons to elect are properly qualified, that they are
in such a situation in point of property as not to be

26 Alexander Hamilton

absolutely indigent and dependent, and let us trust
to them the care of choosing proper persons to repre-
sent them. The Constitution will not presume that
whole districts and counties of electors duly qualified
will choose men improper for the trust. Let us, on
our part, be cautious how we abridge the freedom
of choice allowed them by the Constitution, or the
right of being elected, which every citizen may claim
under it. I hold it to be a maxim which ought to be
sacred in our form of government, that no man
ought to be deprived of any right or privilege which
he enjoys under the Constitution, but for some
offence proved in due course of law. To declare
qualifications or disqualifications by general descrip-
tions in legislative acts, would be to invade this im-
portant principle. It would be to deprive in the
gross all those who had not the requisite qualifica-
tions, or who were objects of those disqualifications,
to that right to a share in the administration of the
republic which the Constitution gives them, and that
without any offence to incur a forfeiture. As to the
objection that the electors might even choose a for-
eigner to represent them within the latitude of the
Constitution, the answer is that common sense would
not tolerate such a construction. The Constitution,
from the fundamental policy of a republican govern-
ment, must be understood to intend citizens. But
the gentleman (Mr. Jones) has not adverted to the
fact that the same difficulty would attend the case
of electors where he admits there is no power in the
Legislature to make alterations. The expression
there is, every male inhabitant possessed of certain

The New York Assembly 27

property shall vote ; but there surely could never be
a doubt that such inhabitant must also be a citizen.

But let us pursue the subject a little further: com-
merce, it will be admitted, leads to an increase
of individual property; property begets influence.
Though a Legislature composed as we are will always
take care of the rights of the middling and lower
classes, suppose the majority of the Legislature to
consist at a future day of wealthy men, what would
hinder them, if the right of innovating on the Con-
stitution be admitted, from declaring that no man
not worth ten thousand pounds should be eligible to
a seat in either House ? Would not this introduce a
principle fatal to the genius of our present Constitu-
tion?

In making this observation, I cannot be suspected
of wishing to increase the jealousy — already suffi-
ciently high — of men of property. My situation,
prospects, and connections forbid the supposition.
But I mean to lay honestly before you the dangers
to which we expose ourselves by letting in the prin-
ciple which the clause under consideration rests upon.
I give no opinion on the expediency of the exclusion
proposed. I only say, in my opinion the Constitu-
tion does not permit it, and I shall be against any
qualification or disqualification — either of electors or
elected — not prescribed by the Constitution. To me
it appears that the qualifications of both ought to be
fundamental in a republican government, not liable
to be varied or added to by the Legislature, and that
they should for ever remain where the Constitution
has left them. I see no other safe ground. It is

28 Alexander Hamilton

to be lamented that men, to carry some favorite
point in which their party or prejudices are inter-
ested, will inconsiderately introduce principles and
precedents which lead to successive innovations de-
structive of the liberty of the subject and the safety
of the government. For my part, I shall uniformly
oppose every innovaton not known in the provisions
of the Constitution. I therefore move that the
clause be struck out.

February 6th

[Discussion on amendment to exclude all British adherents who had
been engaged in privateering in war.]

Mr. Hamilton observed that, when the discrim-
inating clauses, admitted into the bill by that House
were introduced, he was restrained, by motives of
respect for the sense of a respectable part of the
House, from giving it any further opposition than
a simple vote. The limited operation they would
have, made him less anxious about their adoption.
But he could not reconcile it to his judgment or feel-
ings to observe a like silence on the amendment pro-
posed by the Senate. Its operation would be very
extensive ; it would include almost every man in the
city engaged in navigation during the war.

We had, in a former debate, travelled largely over
the ground of the Constitution, as applied to legis-
lative disqualifications. He would not repeat what
he had said, but he hoped to be indulged by the
House in explaining a sentence in the Constitution,
which seems not well understood by these gentlemen.
In one article it says, that no man shall be dis-
franchised or deprived of any right he enjoys under

The New York Assembly 29

the Constitution, but by the law of the land or the
judgment of his peers.

Some gentlemen hold that the law of the land will
include an act of the Legislature. But Lord Coke,
that great luminary of the law, in his comment upon
a similar clause in Magna Charta, interprets the law
of the land to mean presentment and indictment
and process of outlawry, as contradistinguished from
trial by jury. But if there were any doubt upon the
Constitution, the bill of rights enacted in this very
session removes it. It is there declared that no man
shall be disfranchised or deprived of any right but
by due process of law, or the judgment of his peers.
The words ''due process" have a precise technical
import, and are only applicable to the process and
proceedings of courts of justice; they can never be
referred to an act of the Legislature.

Are we willing, then, to endure the inconsistency
of passing a bill of rights and committing a direct
violation of it in the same session? In short, are
we ready to destroy its foundations at the moment
they are laid?

Our having done it, to a certain degree, is to be
lamented; but it is no argument for extending it.

He would now make some remarks on the ex-
pediency and justice of the clause, distinct from con-
stitutional considerations.

The word privateer is indefinite. It may include
letters of marque. The merchants of this city during
war must, generally speaking, abandon their means
of livelihood or be concerned in navigation. If con-
cerned in navigation, they must of necessity have

30 Alexander Hamilton

their vessels armed for defence. They would natu-
rally take out letters of marque. If every owner
of a letter of marque is disfranchised, the body of
your merchants will probably be in this situation.
Is it politic or wise to place them in it? Is it ex-
pedient to force, by exclusions and discriminations,
a numerous and powerful class of citizens to be
unfriendly to the government?

He knew many individuals who would be com-
prehended, who are well affected to the prosperity
of the country, who are disposed to give every sup-
port to the government, and who, some of them at
least, even during the war had manifested an attach-
ment to the American cause. But there is one view
in which the subject merits consideration, that must
lay hold on all our feelings of justice. By the mari-
time law, a majority of the owners have a right to
dispose of the destination of the vessel. The dis-
sent of the minority is of no avail. It may have
happened, and probably has happened in many in-
stances, that vessels have been employed as priva-
teers on letters of marque, by a majority of the
owners, contrary to the sense of the minority.

Would it be just to punish the innocent with the
guilty, to take away the rights of the minority for
an offence committed by the majority, without their
participation, perhaps contrary to their inclination?

He would mention a further case, not equally
strong, but of considerable force to incline the House
against the amendment. He had been informed
that in one or more instances during the war, some
zealous people had set on foot subscriptions for fitting

The New York Assembly 31

out privateers, perhaps at the instigation of the
British Government; and had appHed to persons
suspected of an attachment to us to subscribe, mak-
ing their comphance a test of their loyalty. Several
individuals, well disposed to our cause, to avoid be-
coming objects of persecution, had complied; would
it not be too rigorous to include them in so heavy a
penalty? But if there are any of us who are con-
scious of greater fortitude, such persons should not
on that account be too severe on the weakness of
others. They should thank nature for its bounty
to them, and should be indulgent to human frailty.
How few are there who would have had strength of
mind enough in such circumstances to hazard, by a
refusal, being marked out as the objects of military
resentment? I hope, Mr. Speaker, as well from
motives of justice, as a regard to the Constitution,
we shall stop where we are, and not go any farther
into the dangerous practice of disqualifying citizens
by general descriptions. I hope we shall reject the
amendment, sir!

[Question was determined in the negative,]

February 14th

[Bill considered for settling intestate estates, proving wills, and
granting letters of administration.]

Mr. Hamilton said he did not rise to oppose the
motion of the gentleman who last spoke [Jones].
He should probably vote with him on the question;
but he confessed he did not view it in quite so clear
a light as that gentleman appeared to do. There
appeared to him to be difficulties in the case, which
he would candidly lay before the House to assist its

32 Alexander Hamilton

judgment. The objection is that a new court is
erected or an old one invested with a new jurisdic-
tion, in which it is not bound to proceed according
to the course of the common law. The question is,
What is meant in the Constitution by this phrase,
"the common law"? These words have in a legal
view two senses, one more extensive, the other more
strict.

In their most extensive sense they comprehend the
constitution of all those courts which were estab-
lished by immemorial custom, such as the Court
of Chancery, the Ecclesiastical Court, etc., though
these courts proceed according to a peculiar law. In
their more strict sense they are confined to the course
of proceedings in the courts of Westminster in Eng-
land, or in the Supreme Courts in this State. If the
words are understood in the first sense, the bill under
consideration is not unconstitutional; if in the last,
it is tmconstitutional. For it gives to an old court
a new jurisdiction, in which it is not to proceed ac-
cording to the course of the common law in this last
sense. And to give new jurisdiction to old courts,
not according to the course of the common law, is in
my opinion as much an infringement in substance of
this part of the Constitution, as to erect new courts
with such jurisdiction. To say the reverse would be
to evade the Constitution.

But though I view it as a delicate and difficult
question, yet I am fairly inclined to think that the
more extensive sense may be adopted; with this
limitation, that such new jurisdiction must proceed
according to the course of those courts having by

The New York Assembly 33

the common law cognizance of the subject-matter.
They ought, however, never to be extended to ob-
jects which at common law belonged to the jurisdic-
tion of the courts at Westminster, and which, in this
State, are of the peculiar cognizance of the Supreme
Court. At common law, the Ecclesiastical Courts,
not the courts of Westminster, had cognizance of
intestacies and testamentary causes. The bill pro-
poses that the Court of Probate shall have cognizance
of the same causes and proceed in the same manner
as the Ecclesiastical Courts, except as to inflicting
ecclesiastical penalties.

This distinction I have taken will, I think, bear us
out in passing the bill under consideration. But it is
certainly a point not without considerable difficulty.

[Question was called and put: Will the House pass the law? Deter-
mined in the affirmative.]

February i^th

[House went into Committee of Whole on Tax Bill.]

Mr. Hamilton observed that, as the present bill
exhibited a new system of taxation, it might be
proper to enter into some explanations of its prin-
ciples. It was agreed on all hands that the system
heretofore in use was full of defects, both in the view
of equality among individuals and of revenue to the
State. From the Legislature to the assessor, all
was conjecture and uncertainty. To begin with the
Legislature, — what criterion could any man possi-
bly have by which to estimate the relative abilities
of the several counties ? For his part he had thought
maturely of the subject, but could find none. The
whole must either be a business of honest guessing,

VOL, VIII. — 3.

34 Alexander Hamilton

or interested calculations of county convenience, in
which each member would seek to transfer the burden
from his own county to another. The same thing
must happen in the subdivisions among the districts
by the supervisors ; and, in a still more striking man-
ner, in the apportionment of the tax to individuals
by the assessors. How can they possibly ascertain
the comparative abilities of individuals? — appear-
ances more than realities must govern. The mer-
chant or factor who has a large store of goods, for
which, perhaps, he owes more than the amount,
will pay much more than a man of less apparent
gains, though ten times as much property. This he
mentioned by way of example. The same thing
happened among other orders of society. To-
day, an assessor, my friend, taxes me at ten pounds.
To-morrow, one less my friend will tax me four times
the sum. Infinite differences must happen from the
different degrees of judgment men possess, from their
different biasses and inclinations. A great inequal-
ity results, and all is uncertainty.

Theoretical and practical financiers have agreed in
condemning the arbitrary in taxation. By the ar-
bitrary is meant the leaving the amount of tax to be
paid by each person to the discretion of the officers
employed in the management of the revenue. It is
indeed another word for assessment, where all is left
to the discretion of the assessors.

The English writers have justly boasted the su-
periority of their system over that of France and
some other countries; because little or nothing is
left to the discretion of the ofBcers of the revenue.

The New York Assembly 35

And the ablest observers among the French have
acknowledged the advantage. The celebrated M.
Necker in a late publication has taken especial notice
of this circumstance. The opinion of that states-
man, who conducted the finances of France for sev-
eral years, and during the most critical periods of
the late war, with infinite ability and success, is a
most respectable authority in a matter of this kind.

These had no small share in his disapprobation of a
practice which puts one citizen so much in the power
of another.

He would not say that the practice was contrary
to the provisions of our Constitution ; but it was cer-
tainly repugnant to the genius of our government.
What is the power of the supervisors and assessors,
but a power to tax in detail, while the Legislature
taxes in gross ? Is it proper to transfer so important
a trust from the hands of the Legislature to the
officers of the particular districts? Equality and
certainty are the two great objects to be aimed at in
taxation. The present bill does not pretend to reach
absolute equality. This is impossible. No human
plan can attain it. The variety of circumstances to
be taken into the calculations are too complicated to
be comprised in any scheme that could be devised.
But the principles of the present bill will approach
much nearer to equality than the former system,
and it will have the great advantage of certainty. It
leaves nothing to discretion. Every man can him-
self estimate what he has to pay, without being
dependent on the caprices, the affections, or the
enmities of another.

3^ Alexander Hamilton

The bill in its present form is but an imperfect
sketch. It is in the power of the committee to make
it better. No doubt the combined wisdom of the
House will improve it. The land tax, in particular,
may require great alterations. He had not been
able to satisfy himself on this part of the plan. All
this was, of course, submitted to the discretion of the
committee. One thing only was clear. Any change
would be for the better, and time and experience
would mature and ameliorate it.

[The bill was taken into consideration. Amendments were pro-
posed and adopted.]

February 21st

[Debate on fees allowed for certain legal services.]

Col. Hamilton expressed a hope that the House
would not carry matters to an extreme. It would
be, he thought, as improper to make the fees of the
profession too low as to make them too high. Gen-
tlemen who practised the law, if they were men of
ability, would be paid for the services required of
them; and if the law did not allow a proper com-
pensation, it would be evaded. Names might be
given to things and charges made; against which
there would be no guard. In Pennsylvania and
Jersey attempts had been made to reduce the emolu-
ments of the profession below the proper standard.
This had afforded no relief ; on the contrary, the ex-
penses of the law and the profits of the practisers
had increased since the experiment, the only effect of
which had been to transfer the expense from the de-
linquent debtor to the injured creditor. If the legal
fees amount to a compensation, in most cases the

The New York Assembly zi

practiser would content himself with them; if they
did not, he would consider himself justified in making
the best bargain he could, — the consequences of
which were obvious. While differences would arise
among mankind, and that there would be differences
was certain, lawyers would be necessary, and for
their services they would be paid. He, therefore,
was of the opinion, that in going through the bill,
the House should agree that reasonable allowances
should be made for the services mentioned in the bill,
or they would defeat their own object.

March 8th

[Motion that no freeholder or citizen shall be hereafter imprisoned
for any sum less than £io, but that execution shall issue and remain
in force against the debtor till, from time to time by different seizures
of his effects, the creditors shall be satisfied.]

Col. Hamilton confessed that his own judgment
was not clearly made up on this subject. It was not,
however, a new one to him. It was a question
which had two sides, both of which deserved a se-
rious attention. The clause as it stood, in his opinion,
was not proper. It might be right to say what shall
be done in future contracts. But it will be wrong to
meddle with the past. It was very probable, if the
clause was passed, it would prevent people in poor
circumstances from getting assistance from the
wealthy; this ought to be considered. Many a poor
man who can be favored with a credit of ;^io finds a
material advantage in it; if the security be taken
away there will be an end to credit. He would wish
that every man in distress should meet relief. He

38 Alexander Hamilton

was willing to come into any measure that would
effect this purpose.

March 20th

[Debate on bill for relief of certain public creditors.]

Col. Hamilton supposed that it was agreed on all
hands that some relief should be granted. There
were, he said, two questions before the committee:
one, if they would put them on a footing with other
citizens; and the other, if they did not merit some-
thing more. If, said he, you receive their certifi-
cates and grant them your own, you extend to them
only that reli-ef which you have already given to
your other citizens, who purchased up the loan-office
certificates of other States. But there can be no
difference between any one species of our debt; and
there can be no substantial difference between taking
a certificate of this State and a certificate of the
United States. Much has been said about discrim-
inating, but all arguments of discrimination amount
to nothing. Whether we, by this assumption, make
our State a creditor State or not, cannot be deter-
mined. The present calculation of the public debts
is no criterion to go by. He remembered, he said,
that when he was in Congress the liquidated debt
was somewhere about $40,000,000, and that it was
supposed the unliquidated debt was $40,000,000
more. If this is the case, which he believed it was,
the State of New York would be a debtor State.
From the situation of public affairs, it is to be re-
gretted that there is no system existing which can
give general relief to public creditors. In the present

The New York Assembly 39

instance, it is only required that you do that justice
to one part of your citizens which you have already
done to another part. If we should make our State
a creditor State, by extending this relief to our
citizens, can we not obtain redress, if our Confedera-
tion exists, and God forbid that it may not? He
was willing, he said, to extend the relief; he did not
want to confine it to any particular class of people.

March 21st

[Debate on repealing part of the Trespass Act.^]

Col. Hamilton said that this amendment to the
trespass law was only to repeal that part which was
in violation of the pubHc treaty. The courts of jus-
tice were at present in a delicate dilemma, obliged
either to explain away a positive law of the State, or
openly violate the national faith by counteracting
the very words and spirit of the treaties now in
existence. Because the treaty declares a general
amnesty, and this State, by this law declares that no
person shall plead any military order for a trespass
committed during the war. He said no State was
so much interested in the due observance of the
treaty as the State of New York, the British having
possession of its western frontiers, and which they
hold under the sanction of our not having complied
with our national engagements. He hoped the
House would have too much wisdom not to do away
this exception, and indeed he expected the bill would
be readily agreed to.

[Bill was agreed to almost unanimously.]

I This was an Act to punish persons who held property of patriots
during the war, and to prevent their pleading a military order in
defence.

40 Alexander Hamilton

March 22d
[Motion for laying ;;^i 3,000 tax on New York County.]

Col. Hamilton did not suppose that any arguments
would have much influence on the decision of this
question. There is no criterion to go by, and we fall
into the greatest uncertainty. A gentleman has
told us plainly, that he has been intriguing and mak-
ing the best bargain for his county. He would not
say that New York had made any conditions. He
hoped that the intrigues might not have the effect
that was sought. The county of Albany, he said,
was always rated too low. It was only required to
pay £7,000 with 70,000 inhabitants; while Suffolk,
with only 14,000, paid ;^4,5oo. He asked if the
House would permit intrigues to have such an effect.
The county of Kings, which numbers only 3,000 in-
habitants, and contains 18,500 acres of land, is to
pay ;£2,4oo. Richmond County, which is equally
small, is also overrated; is this right? New York
had ever been rated too high. One of the gentlemen
from New York had proposed ;£ 12,000 from the mere
despair of coming at an equality, but this sum is too
high. He asked if it was justice that the city and
county of New York, which was not a tenth part
of the value or population of the State, should bear
one fourth of its burdens. He hoped this would
be considered, and no partiality exhibited by the
Legislature.

March 24th

[Bill for establishing university.]

Col. Hamilton hoped that the House would not
recommit the bill. There was no doubt, he said,

The New York Assembly 41

but the Legislature possessed the right to give this
power. There were frequent examples of the kind
in Great Britain, where this power had been granted.
No disadvantage, he said, could arise from it; on the
contrary, many would be the benefits. He there-
fore wished the bill might be finished, as no doubt
existed with him of the power and the propriety of
the Legislature granting those privileges which were
mentioned in the bill.

April 1 2th

[Bill to repeal citation acts.]

Mr. Hamilton advocated the bill with great ability
and candor. He mentioned the bad effects of the
present laws, the difficulties that the courts of justice
threw in the way of them, and the impossibility ever
to amend them in such a manner as to have them
acted upon. He urged the influence the opinion of
our courts ought to have on the Legislature. The
courts were not interested, and their decisions were
perfectly impartial. He asked if the Southern Dis-
trict of the State, instead of having fared tolerably
well, had been ruined, would the Legislature have
compelled their debtors who were without the lines
to have paid additional sums. This he did not be-
lieve. And why, then, said he, compel the creditors
to take a less sum? He mentioned that in several
instances the severity of the law fell on gentlemen
who were attached to the American cause, and
who had acted meritoriously in the Revolution. It
was certainly not right to view all the creditors
as enemies. Remarking on the ill effects of the

42 Alexander Hamilton

Legislature interfering in private contracts, and the
violation of public faith which it occasioned, he ob-
served that it would destroy all credit, and be the
means of injuring many whom the Legislature had
intended to benefit.

[Bill passed unanimously.]

SPEECH ON ACCEDING TO THE INDEPENDENCE OF

VERMONT

April. — The counsel for the petitioners has entered
into a large field of argument against the present
bill. He has endeavored to show that it is con-
trary to the Constitution, to the maxims of sound
policy, and to the rights of property. His observa-
tions have not been destitute of weight. They ap-
pear to have the more force, as they are to a certain
degree founded in truth. But it is the province of
the committee to distinguish the just limits of the
principles he has advanced; how far they extend,
and where they terminate. To aid the committee
in this inquiry shall be my endeavor, and following
the counsel for the petitioners through the different
heads of his argument, I hope to be able to show, that
neither of the objections he has urged stands in the
way of the measure proposed, and that the Con-
stitution permits, policy demands it, and justice
acquiesces in its adoption.

The first objection is drawn from that great prin-
ciple of the social compact, — that the chief object of
government is to protect the rights of individuals by
the united strength of the community. The justness

The Independence of Vermont 43

of this principle is not to be disputed, but its extent
remains to be ascertained. It must be taken with
this limitation : The united strength of the commun-
ity ought to be exerted for the protection of individ-
uals so far as there is a rational prospect of success;
so far as is consistent with the safety and well-being
of the whole. The duty of a nation is always limited
by these considerations: It is bound to make efforts
and encounter hazards for the protection of its mem-
bers, proportioned to its abilities, warranted by a
reasonable expectation of a favorable issue, and
compatible with its eventual security. But it is not
bound to enter into or prosecute enterprises of a mani-
fest rashness and folly; or which, in the event of suc-
cess, would be productive of more mischief than good.

This qualification of the principle can no more be
denied than the principle itself. The counsel for the
petitioners indeed admits it in substance, when he
admits that a case of extreme necessity is an ex-
ception to the rule: but he adds that this necessity
should be apparent and unequivocal.

What constitutes a case of extreme necessity ad-
mits of no precise definition. It is always a question
of fact, to be determined by a consideration of the
condition of the parties and the particular circum-
stances of the case itself. A case of necessity then
exists, when every discerning unprejudiced man,
well acquainted with facts, must be convinced that
a measure cannot be undertaken or pursued with a
probability of success. To determine this an experi-
ment is not always necessary: circumstances may
exist so decisive and palpable in their nature, as to

44 Alexander Hamilton

render it the extreme of temerity to begin as well as
to continue an experiment. The propriety of doing
either the one or the other must equally be decided
by a judicious estimate of the national situation.

The tendency of the principle contended for, on
the application of it in argument, has been to prove
that the State ought to employ the common strength
of the society to protect the rights of its citizens, in-
terested in the district of territory in question, by
reducing the revolted inhabitants of that district to
an obedience to its laws. The inquiry therefore is:
Can this be done ? Is the State in a situation to un-
dertake it? Is there a probability that the object
will be more attainable at a future day? Is there
not rather a probability that it will be every day
more out of our reach, and that leaving things in
their present state will be attended with serious dan-
gers and inconveniences? Is it even desirable, if
practicable, to reduce the people in question under
subjection to this State?

In pursuing this inquiry we ought to bear in mind
that a nation is never to regulate its conduct by re-
mote possibilities or mere contingencies, but by such
probability as may reasonably be inferred from the
existing state of things and the usual course of
human affairs.

With this caution, no well-informed mind can be
at a loss in what manner to answer the questions I
have proposed. A concise review of the past, and
a dispassionate consideration of the present, will
enable us to judge with accuracy of the obligations
and interests of the State.

The Independence of Vermont 45

The pretensions to independence of the district of
territory in question began shortly after the com-
mencement of the late Revolution. We were then
engaged in a war for our existence as a people, which
required the utmost exertion of our resources to give
us a chance of success. To have diverted any part
' of them from this object to that of subduing the in-
habitants of Vermont, to have involved a domestic
quarrel which would have compelled that hardy and
numerous body of men to throw themselves into the
arms of the power with which we were then con-
tending, instead of joining their efforts to ours in
the common cause of American liberty, as they for
a long time did, with great advantage to it, would
have been a species of frenzy, for which there could
have been no apology, and would have endangered
the fate of the Revolution more than any one step
we could have taken.

This idea is too obvious to need being enlarged
upon. The most prejudiced will acquit the State
from blame for not trying the effect of force against
that people during the continuance of the war.
Every moderate measure, every thing short of hos-
tility or a total sacrifice of those rights, which were
the original cause of the revolt, and which are the
occasion of the opposition to the present bill, were
tried. Conciliating laws were passed, overtures
made, negotiations carried on in Congress, but all to
no purpose.

The peace found the Vermonters in a state of
actual independence, which they had enjoyed for
several years — organized under a regular form of

4^ Alexander Hamilton

government, and increased in strength by a consider-
able accession of numbers. It found this State the
principal seat of the war, exhausted by peculiar exer-
tions and overwhelmed in debt. The embarrass-
ments arising from this situation press us daily. The
utmost exertion of wisdom in our public councils
would not be more than equal to extricating us from
them. As matters stand, the public debts are un-
provided for, and the public credit prostrate.

Are we now in a situation to undertake the reduc-
tion of Vermont ; or are we likely speedily to be in such
a situation ? Where are our resources,where our public
credit, to enable us to carry on an offensive war?

We ought to recollect that, in war, to defend or
attack are two different things. To the first, the
mountains, the wilderness, the militia, sometimes
even the poverty of a country, will suffice. The lat-
ter requires an army and a treasury.

The population of Vermont will not be rated too
high, if stated at nearly one half of that of New York.
Can any reasonable man suppose that New York,
with the load of debt the Revolution has left upon
it, and under a popular government, would be able
to carry on with advantage an offensive war against
a people half as numerous as itself, in their own ter-
ritory; a territory defended as much by its natural
situation as by the numbers and hardihood of its
inhabitants? Can it be imagined that it would be
able, finally, to reduce such a people to its obedience?
The supposition would be chimerical, and the at-
tempt madness.

Can we hope a more favorable posture of affairs

The Independence of Vermont 47

hereafter? Will not the population and strength of
Vermont increase in ratio to our own? There is,
perhaps, no essential difference between their govern-
ment and ours. The necessity of making provision,
in one way or another, for the exigencies of the
Union, and for the discharge of the debts of the
State, must continue to subject our citizens to
heavier burthens than are borne by the inhabitants
of that country, who have no call for revenue beyond
the support of their domestic administration. A
country possessing a fertile soil, exempt from taxes,
cannot fail of having a rapid growth.

The enterprise will of course become more difficult
by delay ; and procrastination can only serve to ren-
der the claims of the State and its citizens, in the
opinion of mankind, obsolete, and to give the con-
sent of time to the connection which the people of
Vermont have, in all appearance, already formed
with the British Government. This last point I
shall discuss more fully in another place.

I have confined myself in my reasoning to an ex-
amination of what is practicable on the part of this
State alone. No assistance is to be expected from
our neighbors. Their opinion of the origin of the
controversy between this State and the people of
Vermont, whether well or ill founded, is not gener-
ally in our favor ; and it is notorious that the Eastern
States have uniformly countenanced the independ-
ence of that country. This might suggest to us
reflections that would confirm the belief of the im-
practicability of destroying, and the danger of at-
tempting to destroy, that independence.

48 Alexander Hamilton

The scheme of coercion would ill suit even the
disposition of our own citizens. The habits of think-
ing to which the Revolution has given birth, are not
adapted to the idea of a contest for dominion over
a people disinclined to live under our government.
And, in reality, it is not the interest of the State ever
to regain dominion over them by force. We shall do
well to advert to the nature of our government, and
to the extent of this State, according to its acknow-
ledged limits. Are we sure we shall be able to govern
what we already possess? or would it be wise to
wish to try the strength of our government over a
numerous body of people disaffected to it, and com-
pelled to submit to its authority by force ? For my
part I should regard the reunion of Vermont to this
State as one of the greatest evils that could be-
fall it ; as a source of continual embarrassment and
disquietude.

It is hinted by the counsel for the petitioners, that
many of the inhabitants of Vermont are desirous of
living under our government; and sanguine tem-
pers have long ago predicted that they would shortly
grow weary of their independence, throw it off, and
become reunited with us and New Hampshire, of
their own accord. There are clear principles of
human nature, to which we may resort to falsif}^ this
prediction. In popular governments, the sentiments
of the people generally take their tone from their
leaders. The leaders of Vermont cannot desire a
reunion with New York, because this would amount
to an abdication of their own power and consequence.
The people of Vermont will not desire it ; because no

The Independence of Vermont 49

people ever desired to pass from a situation in whix:h
they were exempted from taxes, and in which they
suffered no particular oppression, to one in which
they would be subject to burthens comparatively
heavy.

I pass now to an examination of the constitution-
ality of the measure proposed by the bill. It is
observed, that by the Constitution the counties of
Charlotte, Cumberland, and Gloucester, are con-
stituent parts of the State; that one article of it
declares that no power shall be exercised over the
people, but such as is derived from and granted by
them ; that no express power is given to the Legisla-
ture to dismember any part of the State; and that
this silence of the Constitution is a tacit reservation
of that power to the people.

To all this I answer, that the sovereignty of the
people, by our Constitution, is vested in their repre-
sentatives in Senate and Assembly, with the inter-
vention of the Council of Revision, and, that the
power of dismembering the State, under certain cir-
cumstances, is a necessary appendage of the sover-
eignty. The practice of nations, and the authority
of writers, conspire to establish this principle; and
the safety of society requires it. There are certain
situations of kingdoms and states, in which the sac-
rifice of a part is essential to the preservation or
welfare of the rest.

History furnishes abundant examples of such
sacrifices. Nations, in making peace, frequently
cede parts of their territories to each other. Civil
commotions have many times produced similar

VOL. VIII.— 4,

50 Alexander Hamilton

dismemberments. The monarchy of Spain, after a
destructive and fruitless contest to preserve it, was
obliged, at last, to surrender its dominion over the
Netherlands. The crown of Austria was, in like man-
ner, compelled to abandon its jurisdiction over the
Swiss Cantons. And the United States are a recent
and still more signal instance of the exercise of the
same right. Neither of these instances has been cen-
sured or condemned, nor the power of the sovereign
to accede to the separation called in question.

The celebrated author quoted by the counsel for
the petitioners is explicit on this article, and decides
with clearness that the prince or body intrusted with
the sovereign authority may, in certain emergencies,
dismember the empire, and lop off a limb for the
good of the body. This inference from the silence
of a constitution, is the reverse of that drawn by the
counsel of the petitioners. Doubts have been raised
by particular theorists upon the subject; but their
theories were too abstract for practice, and are now
exploded by the ablest writers on the laws of nations.
Indeed, those doubts were chiefly applied to the case
of a cession, or relinquishment, of a part of the em-
pire still in possession of the sovereign. It has long
been considered as a clear point, that where a part
of an empire is actually severed, by conquest, or a
revolution, the prince, or body vested with the ad-
ministration of the government, has a right to assent
to and to ratify that separation. This is an obvious
and important distinction; from which other infer-
ences of moment will be drawn in another place. It
will be found in Vattel, book four, chapter second.

The Independence of Vermont 51

Vermont is, in fact, severed from New York, and
has been so for years. There is no reasonable pro-
spect of recovering it, and the attempt would be
attended with certain and serious calamities. The
Legislature have, therefore, an undoubted right to
relinquish it, and policy dictates that it should be
done.

It is of no force to say that this principle would
authorize the dismemberment of Long Island, or of
any other part of the State. There is no doubt,
the same circumstances concurring, the same conse-
quences would result, but not sooner ; and it will be
the duty of the State to endeavor to prevent a simi-
lar extremity.

The next thing, in the order observed by the coun-
sel for the petitioners, that presents itself to our
discussion, is the policy of the measure.

Against this it is objected, that the precedent
would be dangerous, that the facility with which
the Vermonters will have accomplished their object,
might invite other parts of this State and the United
States to follow their example.

To this I answer, that examples have little to do
with the revolutions of empire. Wherever such a
state of things exists as to make it the interest or
the inclination of a large body of people to separate
from the society with which they have been con-
nected, and at the same time to afford a prospect of
success, they will generally yield to the impulse, with-
out much inquiry or solicitude about what has been
done by others, or upon other occasions; and when
this is not the case, precedents will never create the

52 Alexander Hamilton

disposition. Events of this kind are not produced
or controlled by the ordinary operations of human
policy, care, or contrivance.

But, whatever may be the effect of the example,
it is too late to prevent or redress the evil. It sprang
up under circumstances which forbade the applica-
tion of an effectual remedy, and it has now acquired
a maturity which would mock all our efforts to
counteract it. Vermont is lost to New York, be-
yond the possibility of a recovery; and a passive
acquiescence in its independence cannot make it
more formidable, as an example, than a direct recog-
nition of it. Success and impunity are the ingredi-
ents that are to constitute the force of the example,
and these will exist in either case.

On the other hand, the policy of the measure re-
sults from two important considerations. The one,
that by the union of Vermont to the Confederacy, it
must of course bear a proportion of the public bur-
dens ; the other, that it would be detached from the
completion of a connection, already in all appear-
ance begun, with a foreign power. The incorpora-
tion of Vermont into the Confederacy is by the bill
made an express condition of the acknowledgment
of their independence.

The first advantage was too obvious to be denied,
though observations have been made to diminish its
importance. Its inland situation has been noted as
a circumstance that precluded the expectation of any
considerable revenue from it. But the same thing
might be said of the interior parts of this and of
the other States; and yet we should make a much

The Independence of Vermont 53

worse figure than we do if our resources were to be
drawn wholly from our Atlantic settlements. The
country of Vermont is fertile and will soon be popu-
lous, and the resources which it may be capable of
affording at a day not far remote, though not of
great magnitude, will by no means be contemptible.

But the principal advantage to be expected from
the measure is the one mentioned last. Here it is
asked, Where is the evidence of the fact, where
the proof of the connection? Would Great Britain,
which has so recently, in a solemn treaty, acknow-
ledged the territory in question to be comprehended
within the limits of the United States, derogate from
that treaty, and for so insignificant an object, as a
connection with a small comer of one of the States,
hazard a rupture with the whole Confederacy?

Not expecting a formal call for the evidence of the
fact, my memory is not prepared to enter into all the
details requisite to its full elucidation. I well re-
member that during the later periods of the war, a
variety of circumstances produced a conviction of
its existence everywhere, — in the army, in the Legis-
lature, and in Congress. Among other transactions
that came to my knowledge, I shall mention one
as nearly as my recollection will serve me. Some
time in the year 1781, Fay and Ira Allen, two of the
most influential individuals in that country, went
into Canada, and we were well informed had re-
peated interviews with General Haldimand. Not
long after, a party of the British, under St. Leger,
penetrated as far as Ticonderoga.

A detachment from that body fell in by accident

54 Alexander Hamilton

with a small party of Vermonters, fired upon them,
killed one of their nimiber, and took the rest pris-
oners. Discovering their mistake, they interred the
dead body with the honors of war, and sent the
prisoners home loaded with kindnesses and caresses.
From that period a free intercourse subsisted be-
tween Canada and Vermont. This is one proof, and
a pretty decisive one, to show that a connection was
formed during the war. I doubt not there are others
equally strong, within the recollection of other mem-
bers of the committee. Since the peace, this inter-
course has been cultivated with reciprocal zeal, and
there are circumstances related (which I shall not
repeat, as they do not come to me with sufficient
authenticity) that look strongly to a continuance of
the connection.

If this connection ever existed, what reason have
we to believe that it has been since dissolved? To
me, I confess, there appears none. On the contrary,
the situation of the parties in my opinion forbids the
supposition of its dissolution.

I flatter myself, those who know my manner of
thinking will acquit me of a disposition to sow
groundless jealousies of any nation. I consider a
conduct of this kind, as undignified and indelicate in
a public character; and if I were not persuaded the
suspicions I entertain are well founded, no motive
would have induced me to bring them forward.

It is asked, in substance, what object Great Brit-
ain can have in cultivating such connection. This
admits of several answers.

Great Britain cannot but see our governments are

The Independence of Vermont 55

feeble and distracted ; that the Union wants energy,
the nation concert ; that our pubHc debts are unpro-
vided for; our federal treasuries empty; our trade
languishing. She may flatter herself that this state
of things will be productive of discontents among
the people, and that these discontents may lead to
a voluntary return to her dominion. She may hope
to see in this country a counterpart of the restoration
of Charles the Second. However mistaken they may
be, it is not impossible, that speculations of this kind
may enter into the head of a British minister.

The government lately established in Canada —
the splendid title of Viceroy — seems to look beyond
the dreary regions of Canada and Nova Scotia.

In this view, she would naturally lay hold of Ver-
mont as a link in the chain of events. It would be
a positive acquisition of so much, and nothing could
better answer the purpose of accelerating the pro-
gress of discontent than the example of a country,
part of ourselves, comparatively speaking, free from
taxes. Nothing could have a more powerful influ-
ence than such an example upon the inhabitants of
the settlements bordering upon that country. How
far and how rapidly it might extend itself is a matter
not easy to be calculated.

But laying aside every supposition of this nature,
there are motives of interest which would dispose
the British Government to cultivate Vermont. A
connection with Vermont will hereafter conduce to
the security of Canada, and to the preservation of
the Western posts. That Great Britain means to
retain these posts, may be inferred from the interest

56 Alexander Hamilton

she has in doing it. The ostensible reason for not
having delivered them up heretofore, is the infrac-
tions of the treaty on our part; but though these
infractions in some instances cannot be denied, it
may fairly be presumed that they are nothing more
than the pretext for withholding the posts, while
the true motive is the prodigious advantage which
the monopoly of the fur trade affords to the com-
merce of the English nation.

If Great Britain has formed the design of finally
retaining those posts, she must look forward sooner or
later to a rupture with this country ; for, degraded
as we are by our mismanagement, she can hardly
entertain so mean an opinion of us as to expect
we shall eventually submit to such a violation of
our rights and interests without a struggle. And, in
such a case, Vermont would be no despicable auxiliary.

But would Great Britain hazard a war with the
United States for so inconsiderable an object?

In the first place, the object is not inconsiderable.
In the next, our situation is not such as to render
our resentment formidable. This situation is per-
haps better understood by everybody else than
ourselves; and no nation would forego a present
advantage to our detriment, while it knew that a
change of government must precede any inconven-
iences from our displeasure.

I do not suppose that the British Government
would, in the present state of things, commit itself
to any avowed engagements with the people of Ver-
mont. It will, no doubt, take care to be in such a
situation as to leave itself at liberty to act according

The Independence of Vermont 57

to circumstances; but it will, and I have no doubt
does, by the intermediation of its officers, keep up a
secret intercourse with the leaders of that people, to
endeavor gradually to mould them to its interest, to
be ready to convert them to its own purposes upon
any favorable conjuncture or future emergency.
This policy is so obvious and safe, that it would be
presumable without any evidence of its existence.

On the part of Vermont, while their fate in the
American scale remains suspended, considerations of
safety would direct them to such a connection with
the British Government. They would not choose to
lie at our mercy, or to depend on their strength, if
they could find refuge and support elsewhere.

There is a circumstance, too, mentioned with a dif-
ferent view by the counsel for the petitioners, which
would contribute to this connection. I mean the re-
lative situation of Canada and Vermont. It is asked :
"May not this situation induce Vermont to regret
the offer of independence, and prompt the people of
that country, for the sake of commerce, to form still
closer connections with a foreign power?" I ask:
Does not this situation, which it is supposed might
have so powerful an influence, afford a strong pre-
sumption of the existence of such a connection?
And is it not our true policy to take away every
additional temptation?

I shall readily admit, that it is very doubtful
whether Vermont will accept the proffered acknow-
ledgment of its independence, upon the condition
annexed. I firmly believe that she does not desire it,
and that she would be perplexed by the dilemma to

58 Alexander Hamilton

which she would be reduced. But whether she ac-
cepts it or not, the offer may be expected to have a
good effect. It would at least serve to ascertain
facts. Her refusal would be a conclusive evidence
of a determined predilection to a foreign connection ;
and it would show the United States the absolute
necessity of combining their efforts to subvert an in-
dependence so hostile to their safety. If they should
find themselves unequal to the undertaking, it must
operate as a new inducement to the several States
to strengthen the Union.

In every light, therefore, the measure on national
ground appears advisable ; but it still remains to in-
quire what will be our duty in respect to the citizens
of this State who are owners of land in Vermont.
How far shall we violate their rights, and how far
are we bound to make them compensation ?

The claim to a compensation is the thing which has
been with most propriety urged by the counsel for the
petitioners. Let us, however, examine its nature
and foundation.

But, before I enter into this examination, I shall
repeat an observation which I made on a former
occasion. Whatever obligations there may be on
the part of the State, cannot be increased by acceding
to the measure proposed. If Vermont is not irre-
trievably lost to this State, the duty of protection
which it owes to individuals obliges it to employ the
common strength to reinstate them in their rights.
If it is irretrievably lost, no rights capable of being
rendered effective will be sacrificed; of course, no
obligation to making a recompense will exist.

The Independence of Vermont 59

But the truth is, the present bill, so far from sur-
rendering the rights of individuals, puts things in
the only train in which they will ever have an oppor-
tunity of giving them validity. The third clause of
the ninth article of the Confederation expressly de-
clares that all controversies about the right of soil
between the citizens of different States shall be de-
cided by a federal court. The counsel for the pe-
titioners tells us that his clients doubt the operation
of this clause, but as he gives us no reason for the
doubt, I shall only say that the terms of it appear to
me clear and explicit.

I have no doubt that the petitioners would be en-
titled to a federal court ; and though that court would
not decide in such a question like the tribunals of New
York,but upon general principles of natural and politi-
cal rights, I should confidently expect that all equita-
ble claims of our citizens would have their full effect.

It is, however, further observed on this head, that
the expense of such court would exceed the abilities
of individuals, and could only be compassed by the
resources of sovereign States.

If this suggestion should be admitted to be true
(though I think the expense is greatly overrated),
yet surely it would be more reasonable to ask the
State for its assistance in procuring a federal court
to obtain justice to the petitioners, than to ask it to
undertake a ruinous war for that purpose. The dif-
ference in expense would not bear a comparison.
Indeed, the first would be a trifling object to the
State, while the last would exceed its abilities, and
perhaps end in its disgrace.

6o Alexander Hamilton

But if the bill even contained no provision for ob-
taining justice to the petitioners, I should hold that
the State would not be under a strict obligation to
recompense them for their losses. The distinction
I would lay down upon the subject is this: If a
government voluntarily bargains away the rights, or
disposes of the property, of its citizens, in their en-
joyment, possession, or power, it is bound to make
compensation for the thing of which it hath de-
prived them; but if they are actually dispossessed
of those rights, or that property, by the casualties
of war, or a revolution, the State, if the public good
requires it, may abandon them to the loss without
being obliged to make reparation. The author
quoted by the counsel for the petitioners, has in view
the case of a voluntary disposition of the property of
citizens in the power of the State; and his doctrine
is unquestionably just, but it does not apply to the
case of an actual dispossession by any of those events
in which nations have no choice. In wars between
States, the sovereign is never supposed to be bound
to make good the losses which the subject sustains
by the captures or ravages of the enemy, though
they should amount to the destruction of his whole
property ; and yet nothing can be more agreeable to
natural equity than that those who happen to be
the unlucky victims of the war should be indemnified
by the community. But, in practice, such a princi-
ple would be found attended with endless difficul-
ties and inconveniences; and therefore the reverse
of it has been adopted as a general rule. The in-
dividual sufferer, however, might with great color of

The Independence of Vermont 6i

justice, say to the government, Why did you make
peace without stipulating a reparation for the dam-
age done to your citizens? If it was necessary for
the pubHc good to sacrifice my interests, I have a
right to a pubHc compensation for my losses.

Though this case may, upon a superficial view,
appear dissimilar to the one under consideration, yet
the principle upon examination will be found as ap-
plicable to the one as to the other. The true reason
is that the resources of nations are not adequate to
the reparation of such extensive losses as those which
are commonly occasioned by wars and revolutions;
and it would therefore be contrary to the general
good of society to establish it as a rule, that there is
a strict obligation to repay such losses. It is better
that there should be individual sufferers than to
admit a rule which would fetter the operations of
government and distress the affairs of the community.

Generosity and policy may, in particular instances,
dictate such compensation. Sometimes they have
been made by nations, but much oftener omitted.
The propriety of doing the one or the other must
depend on circumstances in which the ability of the
public will always be a primary consideration.

I think, sir, I have by this time gone through all
the arguments that have been brought against the
bill, and I hope satisfactorily refuted them.

I shall say a little in answer to the observations
drawn from the examples of Roman magnanimity.
Neither the manners nor the genius of Rome are
suited to the republic or to the age we live in. All her
maxims and habits were military; her government

62 Alexander Hamilton

was constituted for war. Ours is unfit for it; and
our situation, still less than our Constitution, invites
us to emulate the conduct of Rome, or to attempt a
display of unprofitable heroism.

One more observation will conclude what I have
to say. The present situation of our national affairs
appears to me peculiarly critical. I know not what
may be the result of the disordered state of our
government. I am, therefore, the more solicitous to
guard against danger from abroad. Gentlemen who
view our public affairs in the same light in which
they present themselves to my mind, will, I trust,
vote with me upon the present occasion. Those, on
the contrary, who think all is well — who suppose our
government is full of energy, our credit high, and
trade and finances flourishing — will probably see no
room for any anxiety about the matter, and may be
disposed to leave Vermont in its present state. If
the bill should fail, I hope they will never have oc-
casion to regret the opportunity they have lost.

As to the petitioners, I shall only say that I have
no reason to doubt the purity of the motives with
which they are actuated. With many of them I am
too well acquainted to permit me to entertain any
unfavorable impression of their conduct; but, how-
ever their opinion of their own rights or interests
may have misled them in estimating the merits of
the question before the committee, I trust we shall
be cautious how we suffer our judgment of a national
question to be biassed or misguided by the specious-
ness of the arguments or appearances on which their
opposition is supported.

Major-General Greene 63

EULOGIUM ON MAJOR-GENERAL GREENE

Delivered before the Society of the Cincinnati

July 4, 1789.

There is no duty that could have been assigned
to me by this Society which I should execute with
greater alacrity than the one I am now called upon
to perform. All the motives capable of interesting
an ingenuous and feeling mind conspire to prom.pt
me to its execution. To commemorate the talents,
virtues, and exploits of great and good men, is at all
times a pleasing task to those who know how to
esteem them. But when such men, to the title of
superior merit, join that of having been the defenders
and guardians of our country ; when they have been
connected with us as companions in the same dan-
gers, sufferings, misfortunes, and triumphs; when
they have been allied to us in the still more endear-
ing character of friends, we recall the ideas of their
worth with sensations that affect us yet more nearly,
and feel an involuntary propensity to consider their
fame as our own. We seem to appropriate to our-
selves the good they have done, to take a personal
interest in the glory they have acquired, and to
share in the very praise we bestow.

In entering upon a subject in which your feelings
as well as my own are so deeply concerned, however
it might become me to follow examples of humility,
I shall refrain from a practice perhaps not less lauda-
ble than it is common. I cannot prevail upon my-
self to check the current of your sensibility by the
cold formalities of an apology for the defects of
the speaker. These can neither be concealed nor

64 Alexander Hamilton

extenuated by the affectation of diffidence, nor even
by the genuine concessions of conscious inability.
'T is your command, and the reverence we all bear to
the memory of him of whom I am to speak, that
must constitute my excuse, and my claim to your in-
dulgence. Did I even possess the powers of oratory,
I should with reluctance attempt to employ them
upon the present occasion. The native brilliancy
of the diamond needs not the polish of art ; the con-
spicuous features of pre-eminent merit need not the
coloring pencil of imagination, nor the florid decora-
tions of rhetoric.

From you who knew and loved him, I fear not the
imputation of flattery, or enthusiasm, when I in-
dulge an expectation, that the name of Greene will
at once awaken in your minds the images of what-
ever is noble and estimable in human nature. The
fidelity of the portrait I shall draw will therefore
have nothing to apprehend from your sentence.
But I dare not hope that it will meet with equal jus-
tice from all others, or that it will entirely escape the
cavils of ignorance and the shafts of envy. For high
as this great man stood in the estimation of his
country, the whole extent of his worth was little
known. The situations in which he has appeared,
though such as would have measured the faculties
and exhausted the resources of men who might
justly challenge the epithet of great, were yet incom-
petent to the full display of those various, rare, and
exalted endowments with which nature only now
and then decorates a favorite, as if with intention to
astonish mankind.

Major-General Greene 65

As a man, the virtues of Greene are admitted; as
a patriot, he holds a place in the foremost rank; as
a statesman, he is praised; as a soldier, he is ad-
mired. But in the two last characters, especially in
the last but one, his reputation falls far below his
desert. It required a longer life, and still greater
opportunities, to have enabled him to exhibit, in
full day, the vast, I had almost said the enormous,
powers of his mind.

The termination of the American war — not too
soon for his wishes, nor for the welfare of his country,
but too soon for his glory — put an end to his military
career. The sudden termination of his life cut him
off from those scenes which the progress of a new,
immense, and unsettled empire could not fail to
open to the complete exertion of that universal and
pervading genius which qualified him not less for the
senate than for the field.

In forming our estimate, nevertheless, of his char-
acter, we are not left to supposition and conjecture.
We are not left to vague indications or uncertain
appearances, which partiality might varnish or pre-
judice discolor. We have a succession of deeds, as
glorious as they are unequivocal, to attest his great-
ness and perpetuate the honors of his name.

It is an observation, as just as it is common, that
in those great revolutions which occasionally con-
vulse society, human nature never fails to be brought
forward in its brightest as well as in its blackest
colors; and it has very properly been tanked not
among the least of the advantages which compen-
sate for the evils they produce that they serve to

VOL. VIII,— 4.

66 Alexander Hamilton

bring to light, talents and virtues, which might
otherwise have languished in obscurity, or only shot
forth a few scattered and wandering rays.

Nathaniel Greene, descended from reputable
parents, but not placed by birth in that elevated
rank which, under a monarchy, is the only sure road
to those employments that give activity and scope
to abilities, must, in all probability, have contented
himself with the humble lot of a private citizen, or,
at most, with the contracted sphere of an elective
office, in a colonial and dependent government,
scarcely conscious of the resources of his own mind,
had not the violated rights of his country called him
to act a part on a more splendid and more ample
theatre.

Happily for America, he hesitated not to obey the
call. The vigor of his genius, corresponding with the
importance of the prize to be contended for, over-
came the natural moderation of his temper; and
though not hurried on by enthusiasm, but animated
by an enlightened sense of the value of free govern-
ment, he cheerfully resolved to stake his fortune, his
hopes, his life, and his honor upon an enterprise, of
the danger of which he knew the whole magnitude;
in a cause, which was worthy of the toils and of the
blood of heroes.

The sword having been appealed to, at Lexington,
as the arbiter of the controversy between Great
Britain and America, Greene, shortly after, marched,
at the head of a regiment, to join the American
forces at Cambridge; determined to abide the awftil
decision.

Major-General Greene 67

He was not long there before the discerning eye of
the American Fabius marked him out as the object
of his confidence.

His abilities entitled him to a pre-eminent share
in the councils of his Chief. He gained it, and he
preserved it, amidst all the checkered varieties of
military vicissitude, and in defiance of all the in-
trigues of jealous and aspiring rivals.

As long as the measures which conducted us safely
through the first most critical stages of the war shall
be remembered with approbation; as long as the
enterprises of Trenton and Princeton shall be re-
garded as the dawnings of that bright day which
afterwards broke forth with such resplendent lustre ;
as long as the almost magic operations of the re-
mainder of that memorable winter, distinguished
not more by these events than by the extraordinary
spectacle of a powerful army straitened within nar-
row limits by the phantom of a military force, and
never permitted to transgress those limits with im-
punity, in which skill supplied the place of means,
and disposition was the substitute for an army — as
long, I say, as these operations shall continue to be
the objects of curiosity and wonder, so long ought
the name of Greene to be revered by a grateful
country. To attribute to him a portion of the
praise which is due, as well to the formation as to the
execution of the plans that effected these important
ends, can be no derogation from that wisdom and
magnanimity which knew how to select and embrace
counsels worthy of being pursued.

The laurels of a Henry were never tarnished by

68 Alexander Hamilton

the obligations he owed and acknowledged to a
Sully.

It would be an unpleasing task, and therefore I
forbear to lift the veil from off those impotent coim-
cils, which, by a formal vote, had decreed an un-
disturbed passage to an enemy returning from the
fairest fruits of his victories, to seek an asylum from
impending danger, disheartened by retreat, dispirited
by desertion, broken by fatigue, retiring through
woods, defiles, morasses, in which his discipline was
useless, in the face of an army superior in numbers,
elated by pursuit, and ardent to signalize their
courage. 'T is enough for the honor of Greene to
say, that he left nothing unessayed to avert and
to frustrate so degrading a resolution. And it was
happy for America, that the man, whose reputation
could not be wounded without wounding the cause
of his country, had the noble fortitude to rescue
himself, and the army he commanded, from the dis-
grace with which they were both menaced by the
characteristic imbecility of a council of war.

Unwilling to do more than merely to glance at a
scene in which the meritorious might be involved
with the guilty, in promiscuous censure, here let me
drop the curtain, and invite you to accompany me
to the Heights of Monmouth. There let me recall
to your indignant view, the flower of the American
infantry flying before an enemy that scarcely dared
to pursue — vanquished without a blow — vanquished
by their obedience to the commands of a leader who
meditated their disgrace. Let me contrast with this
the conduct of your Greene; the calm intrepidity

Major-General Greene 69

and unshaken presence of mind with which he sec-
onded the dispositions of his General, to arrest the
progress of the disorder and retrieve the fortune of
the day. Let me recall to your recollection that
well-timed and happy movement on the left of the
enemy, by which he so materially contributed to
deciding the dubious event of the conflict, and turn-
ing the hesitating scale of victory.

From the Heights of Monmouth I might lead you
to the Plains of Springfield, there to behold the vet-
eran Knyphausen, at the head of a veteran army,
baffled and almost beaten by a general without an
army — aided, or rather embarrassed, by small fugitive
bodies of volunteer militia, the mimicry of soldiership !

But it would ill become me to detain you in the
contemplation of objects diminutive in comparison
with those that are to succeed.

Hitherto, we have seen the illustrious Greene
acting in a subordinate capacity, the faint glimmer-
ings of his fame absorbed and lost in the superior
rays of a Washington. Happy was it for him to
have been called to a more explicit station. Had
this never been the case, the future historian, per-
plexed between the panegyric of friends and the
satire of enemies, might have doubted in what colors
to draw his true character. Accident, alone, saved
a Greene from so equivocal a fate ; a reflection which
might damp the noble ardor of emulation, and check
the towering flight of conscious merit.

The defeat of Camden, and the misfortune of
Gates, opened the career of victory and of glory to
Greene. Congress having resolved upon a successor

yo Alexander Hamilton

to the former, the choice was left to the Commander-
in-Chief, and fell upon the latter. In this destina-
tion, honorable in proportion as it was critical, he
acquiesced with the mingled emotions of a great
mind — impelled by a sense of duty — allured by the
hope of fame — apprised of the danger and precari-
ousness of the situation, yet confident of its own
strength, and animated by the magnitude of the
object for which it was to be exerted.

Henceforth we are to view him on a more exalted
eminence. He is no longer to figure in an ambigu-
ous or secondary light; he is to shine forth the
artificer of his own glory — the leader of armies and
the deliverer of States!

To estimate properly the value of his services, it
is necessary to recur to the situation of the southern
extremity of the Union at the time he entered upon
the command in that quarter. Georgia and South
Carolina subdued and overrun; the spirit of their
people dejected and intimidated; the flame of re-
sistance scarcely kept alive by the transient gleams
of a few expiring embers ; North Carolina distracted
by the still recent effects of internal commotion,
dreading the hostility of a considerable part of its
own citizens, and depending, for its exertions, on the
tried valor and patriotism of the rest, more than on
the energy of a feeble and ill-organized government ;
Virginia, debilitated by the excessive efforts of its
early zeal, and by the dissipation of its revenues and
forces, in Indian hostilities, in domestic projects,
encumbered by a numerous body of slaves, bound
by all the laws of degraded humanity to hate their

Major-General Greene 71

masters; deficient in order and vigor in its adminis-
tration, and relying wholly, for immediate defence
against threatened invasion, on the resources of a
country, extensive, populous, and fertile, to be put
in motion by the same ardent and magnanimous
spirit which first lighted up the opposition to Great
Britain, and set the glorious example of resistance to
America. In such a situation what was to be hoped ?
What was to be hoped from a general without troops,
without magazines, without money? A man of less
depth of penetration or force of soul than Greene,
would have recoiled at the prospect; but he, far
from desponding, undertook the arduous task with
firmness — with a firmness which was the result
of a well-informed estimate of a situation perilous
but not desperate. He knew how much was to be
expected from the efforts of men contending for the
rights of man. He knew how much was to be per-
formed by capacity, courage, and perseverance.

Not to be disconcerted by the most complicated
embarrassments, nor the most discouraging pro-
spects, he began, before he entered upon the duties
of the field, by adjusting the outlines of the plan
which was to regulate his future conduct; a plan
conceived with as much wisdom, and so perfect a
judgment of circumstances, that he never had oc-
casion to depart from it in the progress of his sub-
sequent operations. This alone might suffice to form
the eulogium of his genius, and to demonstrate that
he was an accomplished master in the science of
military command.

His next care was to endeavor to impress the

72 Alexander Hamilton

neighboring States with a proper sense of their situa-
tion, in order to induce them, with system and
effect, to furnish the succors of which he stood in
need. To urge the collection and accelerate the
arrival of these, as well as to repel any invasion to
which the State might be exposed, he stationed, in
Virginia, the Baron de Steuben, an officer who mer-
ited and justified his confidence; and having made
these preliminary arrangements, he hastened to put
himself at the head of the inconsiderable remains of
the southern army, which he joined at Charlotte, on
the borders of North Carolina, destitute of every
thing but courage, and an unconquerable attach-
ment to the cause they had espoused.

To enter into a particular detail of the operations
by which the Southern States were rescued from
conquest and desolation, and the last project of
Britain for the subjugation of America frustrated,
would be to assume the province of the historian.
This, neither the occasion, nor any reasonable claim
to your indulgence, would justify. A general sketch
is all that can, with propriety, be attempted, and
shall limit my endeavors. To supply a necessitous
army by coercion, and yet maintain the confidence
and good- will of the coerced; this was among the
first and not the least of the difficulties to be sur-
mounted. But delicate and difficult as was the task,
it was, nevertheless, accomplished. Conducted with
system, moderation, and equity, even military exac-
tions lost their rigor, and freemen venerated the
hand that reluctantly stripped them of their prop-
erty for their preservation.

Major-General Greene 73

Having concerted the arrangements requisite to
this end, Greene, without further delay, entered
upon that busy, comphcated, and extraordinary
scene, which may truly be said to form a phenome-
non in war — a scene which almost continually pre-
sents us, on the one hand, with victories ruinous to
the victors ; on the other, with retreats beneficial to
the vanquished ; which exhibits to our admiration a
commander almost constantly obliged to relinquish
the field to his adversary, yet as constantly making
acquisitions upon him; beaten to-day; to-morrow,
without a blow, compelling the conqueror to re-
nounce the very object for which he had conquered,
and, in a manner, to fly from the very foe he had
subdued. Too weak, with his collected strength, to
dispute the field with an enemy superior both in
numbers and discipline, and urged by the necessity
of giving activity to the natural force of the country,
by rousing the inhabitants from the state of despon-
dency into which they had sunk, with the prospect
of succor and protection, Greene divided his little
army into two parts: one of which he sent, under
Morgan, into the western extremities of North Caro-
lina; and, with the other, marched to Hicks' Creek.

This movement had the desired effect. The ap-
pearance of aid, magnified by advantages oppor-
tunely gained (though unimportant in themselves),
rekindled the ardor of patriotic hope in the breasts
of many who had begun to despair, and emboldened
them to resume their arms, and again to repair to
the standard of liberty.

Sensible of the importance of counteracting this

74 Alexander Hamilton

policy of the American general, the British com-
mander hesitated not about the part he should act.
Directing his first attention towards the detachment
under Morgan, and meditating a decisive blow
against that corps, he committed the execution of
the enterprise to Lieutenant-Colonel Tarleton, at the
head of a thousand veterans. Tarleton, hitherto not
less the favorite of fortune than of his chief, hastened
to perform the welcome duty; anticipating an easy
triumph over foes inferior both in numbers and dis-
cipline; and dreaming not of the reverse which was
destined to confound his hopes, and even to sully the
lustre of his former fame. In the very grasp of
victory, when not to combat but to slaughter seemed
all that remained to be done, the forward intrepidity
of a Washington, seconded by the cool, determined
bravery of a Howard, snatched the trophy from his
too eager and too exulting hand. He was discom-
fited and routed. The greater part of his followers
were either killed or taken; and the remaining few,
with himself, were glad to find safety in flight.

Here first the bright dawn of prosperity began to
dispel that gloomy cloud which had for some time
lowered over the Southern horizon ! Thunderstruck
at so unexpected a disaster, and ill able to spare so
considerable a part of his force, Comwallis resolved,
at every sacrifice, to attempt the recovery of his
captive troops. The trial of skilful exertion between
the generals and of patient fortitude between the
troops, to which that attempt gave occasion, was
such as to render it difficult to pronounce to whom
the palm of merit ought to be decreed. Abandoning

Major-General Greene 75

whatever might impede the celerity of his motions,
Cornwallis began and urged the pursuit of the
detachment under Morgan, with a rapidity seldom
equalled, never surpassed; while, on the other hand,
the provident and active Greene spared no exertion
to disappoint his enterprising adversary.

Anxious for the security of that detachment, with
their prisoners, and desirous of affecting a reunion of
his forces, now rendered necessary by a change of
circumstances, he gave instant orders for the march
of the body under his immediate command to Guil-
ford Court-House ; and hastened, in person, through
the country, a hundred and fifty miles, to join
General Morgan, whom he came up with on the
banks of the Catawba. Thus, placed in front of the
enemy, he was the better able to counteract their
immediate design, and to direct the co-operation
necessary to the intended junction. So well were
his measures taken, that he succeeded in both ob-
jects. The prisoners were carried off in safety ; and
Guilford Court-House, the destined place of rendez-
vous, received and reunited the two divisions of the
American army. Still, however, too weak to keep
the field in the face of his enemy, a further retreat
became inevitable. A resolution was accordingly
taken to retire beyond the Dan. Here a new and
not less arduous trial of skill ensued. To get be-
tween the American army and Virginia, intercept
their supplies and reinforcements, and oblige them
to fight on disadvantageous terms — this now became
the object of Cornwallis. With this view he directed
his march into the upper country, where the rivers

7^ Alexander Hamilton

were fordable with facility; flattering himself that
the depth of the waters below, and the want of boats,
would oppose insuperable obstacles to the expedi-
tious passage of the American troops. To retard the
progress of the British army was, of course, an in-
dispensable policy on the part of Greene. For this
purpose, he practised every expedient which a mind,
fertile in resource, could devise. And so efficacious
were the expedients he adopted, that, surmounting
all the impediments in his way, he completed his
retreat across the Dan, without loss of men, baggage,
or stores.

Such, nevertheless, was the energy of the pursuit,
that in crossing the three principal rivers, the Ca-
tawba, the Yadkin, and the Dan, the British troops,
in a manner, trod upon the heels of the American.
In the passage of the last of the three, the van of the
enemy's army reached one shore, almost at the very
moment that the rear of ours landed on the opposite.

Comwallis, upon this occasion, imitating Charles
the Twelfth of Sweden, when the celebrated Schulen-
burgh made good his retreat across the Oder, in
spite of the utmost efforts of that vigorous and en-
terprising monarch, might, with propriety, have ex-
claimed. This day, at least, Greene has conquered
me! The art of retreating is perhaps the most diffi-
cult in the art of war. To have effected a retreat in
the face of so ardent a pursuit, through so great an
extent of country; through a country offering every
obstacle, affording scarcely any resource ; with troops
destitute of every thing, who a great part of the way
left the vestiges of their march in their own blood;

Major-General Greene T]

— to have done all this, I say, without loss of any
kind may, without exaggeration, be denominated a
masterpiece of military skill and exertion. Disap-
pointed at his first aim, Comwallis now retired from
the Dan to Guilford Court- House. Having driven
the American army out of North Carolina, he flat-
tered himself that his efforts would at least be pro-
ductive of the advantage of an accession of force, by
encouraging the numerous royalists of that State
to repair to his standard. Greene, not without ap-
prehensions that the hopes of his competitor, in this
respect, might be realized, lost not a moment, after
receiving a small reinforcement from Virginia, in
recrossing the Dan, to take post in the vicinity of
the British army, and interrupt their communica-
tion with the country. Three weeks passed in a
constant scene of military manoeuvre: Comwallis,
equally striving to bring his antagonist to an action ;
and Greene, adroitly endeavoring to elude it, yet
without renouncing such a position as would enable
him to prevent both supplies and reinforcements.
On this occasion he played the part of Turenne ; and
he played it with complete success. The relative
position which he took and maintained, and the
tragical fate of a body of royalists, intercepted in
their way to the British army, destroyed every pro-
spect of that aid which they, not without reason, had
promised themselves from their adherents in North
Carolina.

Virginia, in the meantime, awakened by the pre-
sence of danger, exerted herself to reinforce the Amer-
ican army, Greene, speedily finding himself in a

7^ Alexander Hamilton

condition to outnumber his adversary, resolved to
offer that battle which he had hitherto declined. He
considered that, in the existing circumstances, a de-
feat must be, to the enemy, absolute ruin; while to
him, from his superiority in cavalry, united with
other advantages, it could be nothing more than a
partial misfortune, and must be compensated at a
price which the enemy could not afford to pay for it.

The two armies, now equally willing to try the
fortime of a battle, met and engaged near Guilford
Court-House. All that could be expected from able
disposition towards insuring success, promised a
favorable issue to the American arms. But superior
discipline carried it against superior numbers and
superior skill. Victory decreed the glory of the
combat to the Britons; but Heaven, confirming
the hopes of Greene, decreed the advantage of it
to the Americans. Greene retired; Comwallis kept
the field. But Greene retired only three miles ; and
Comwallis, in three days, abandoning the place where
the laurels he had gained were a slender compensa-
tion for the loss he had suffered, withdrew to Wil-
mington on the sea-coast.

This victory cost him a large proportion of the
flower of his army; and it cost him a Webster.

Here occurred the problem, on the right solution
of which depended the fame of Greene and the fate
of the Southern States. There was every proba-
bility that the next movement of Comwallis would
be towards a junction with Arnold for the invasion
of Virginia. Was the American general to keep
pace with his adversary in his northern career, in

Major-General Greene 79

order to resist his future enterprises ? Or, was he to
return into the field he had lately left, to endeavor
to regain what had been there lost? The first, as
the most obvious, and, in a personal light, the least
perilous course, would have been thought the most
eligible by an ordinary mind. But the last, as the
wisest, though, to his own reputation, the most
hazardous, appeared preferable to the comprehensive
eye and adventurous spirit of a Greene.

On the one hand, he concluded, justly, that Vir-
ginia might safely be trusted to her own strength
and resources, and to the aid which, if necessary, she
might derive from the North, against all the force
which the enemy were then able to employ in that
quarter. On the other hand, he foresaw, that if
South Carolina and Georgia should be abandoned
to the situation in which they then were, they would
quickly have abandoned themselves to despair;
would have lost even the spirit of opposition; and
might have been rendered, in several respects, sub-
servient to the future progress of their conqueror.
Under these impressions, he determined to return
into South Carolina, to attempt the recovery of that
and its neighboring State.

This was one of those strokes that denote superior
genius, and constitute the sublime of war. T was
Scipio leaving Hannibal in Italy, to overcome him at
Carthage !

The success was answerable to the judicious bold-
ness of the design. The enemy were divested of
their acquisitions in South Carolina and Georgia,
with a rapidity which, if not ascertained, would

8o Alexander Hamilton

scarcely be credible. In the short space of two
months, all their posts in the interior of the country
were reduced. The perseverance, courage, enter-
prise, and resource, displayed by the American gen-
eral in the course of these events, commanded the
admiration even of his enemies. In vain was he de-
feated in one mode of obtaining his object: another
was instantly substituted that answered the end.
In vain was he repulsed from before a besieged fort-
ress: he immediately found other means of com-
pelling its defenders to relinquish their stronghold.
Where force failed, address and stratagem still won
the prize.

Having deprived the enemy of all their posts in
the interior of the country, and having wasted their
forces in a variety of ways, Greene now thought him-
self in a condition to aim a decisive blow at the muti-
lated remains of the British army, and, at least, to
oblige them to take refuge within the lines of Charles-
ton. With this view he collected his forces into one
body, and marched to give battle to the enemy, then
stationed at the Springs of the Eutaw.

A general action took place. Animated, obstinate,
and bloody was the contest. The front line of the
American army, consisting of militia, after begin-
ning a brisk attack, began to give way. At this
critical and inauspicious juncture, Greene, with that
collected intrepidity which never forsook him, gave
orders to the second line, composed of Continentals,
to advance to the charge with trailed arms. This
order, enforced by example and executed with
matchless composure and constancy, could not fail

I

Major-General Greene 8i

of success. The British veterans shrunk from the
American bayonet. They were routed and pursued
a considerable distance. Numbers of them fell into
the hands of their pursuers, and the remainder were
threatened with a similar fate; when, arriving at a
position which, with peculiar advantages, invited to
a fresh stand, they rallied and renewed the action.
In vain did the intrepid Washington, at the head of
the pursuing detachment, redouble the efforts of his
valor, to dislodge them from this new station. He
was himself wounded and made a prisoner, and his
followers, in their turn, compelled to retire.

But though the enemy, by an exertion of bravery
which demands our esteem, saved themselves from
the total ruin which was ready to overwhelm them,
they had, nevertheless, received too severe a blow to
attempt any longer to maintain a footing in the open
country. They, accordingly, the day following, re-
treated towards Charleston, leaving behind them
their wounded and a considerable quantity of arms.
Here ended all serious offensive operations in the
South! The predatory excursions which intervened
between the battle of the Eutaw and the evacuation
of Charleston and Savannah, deserve not a place
in the catalogue of military achievements. But be-
fore we take leave of a scene as honorable as it was
advantageous to the American arms, it behooves us
to stop for a moment, to pay the tribute of merited
applause to the memory of that gallant officer, who,
at the head of the Virginia line, fell in this memorable
conflict. More anxious, to the last, about his coun-
try than himself, in the very agonies of departing

VOL. VIII.— 5.

r

82 Alexander Hamilton

life, he eagerly inquired which of the contending
parties prevailed; and having learned that his
countrymen were victorious, he, like another Epami-
nondas, yielded up his last breath in this noble
exclamation: ''Then do I die contented.''' Heroic
Campbell ! How enviable was such a death !

The evacuation of the two capitals of South Caro-
lina and Georgia entirely restored those States to
their own governments and laws. They now hailed
the illustrious Greene as their defender and deliverer.
Their gratitude was proportioned to the extent of
the benefits resulting from his services; nor did it
show itself in words only, but was manifested by
acts that did honor to their generosity. Conse-
crated in the affections of their citizens to the re-
motest posterity, the fame of Greene will ever find
in them a more durable, as well as a more flattering,
memorial, than in the proudest monuments of mar-
ble or brass.

But where, alas, is now this consummate General;
this brave Soldier; this discerning Statesman; this
steady Patriot; this virtuous Citizen; this amiable
Man? Why could not so many talents, so many
virtues, so many bright and useful qualities, shield
him from a premature grave? Why was he not
longer spared to a country he so dearly loved ; which
he was so well able to serve; which still seems so
much to stand in need of his services ? Why was he
only allowed to assist in laying the foundation, and
not permitted to aid in rearing the superstructure,
of American greatness? Such are the inquiries
which our friendly, yet short-sighted, regrets would

Presidential Etiquette 83

naturally suggest. But inquiries like these are to
be discarded as presumptuous. 'T is not for us to
scan, but to submit, to the dispensations of Heaven.
Let us content ourselves with revering the memory,
imitating the virtues, and, as far as we dare, emu-
lating the glory of the man, whom neither our warm-
est admiration, nor our fondest predilection, could
protect from the fatal shaft. And as often as we
indulge our sorrow for his loss, let us not fail to
mingle the reflection, that he has left behind him,
offspring who are the heirs to the friendship which
we bore to the father, and who have a claim from
many, if not from all of us, to cares not less than
parental.

PRESIDENTIAL ETIQUETTE

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

New York, May s, 1789.

Sir:

In conformity to the intimation you were pleased
to honor me with on * * * evening last, I have
reflected upon the etiquette proper to be observed
by the President, and now submit the ideas which
have occurred to me on the subject.

The public good requires as a primary object, that
the dignity of the office should be supported.

Whatever is essential to this ought to be pursued,
though at the risk of partial or momentary dis-
satisfaction. But care will be necessary to avoid
extensive disgust or discontent. Men's minds are

84 Alexander Hamilton

prepared for a pretty high tone in the demeanor of the
Executive, but I doubt whether for so high a one as
in the abstract might be desirable. The notions of
equality are yet, in my opinion, too general and too
strong to admit of such a distance being placed
between the President and other branches of the
government as might even be consistent with a due
proportion. The following plan will, I think, steer
clear of extremes, and involve no very material in-
conveniences.

I. The President to have a levee day once a week
for receiving visits; an hour to be fixed at which it
shall be understood that he will appear, and conse-
quently that the visitors are to be previously assem-
bled.

The President to remain half an hour, in which
time he may converse cursorily on indifferent sub-
jects, with such persons as shall invite his attention,
and at the end of that half hour disappear. Some
regulation will be hereafter necessary to designate
those who may visit.

A mode of introduction through particular officers
will be indispensable. No visits to be returned.

II. The President to accept no invitations, and to
give formal entertainments only twice or four times
a year, the anniversaries of important events in the
Revolution. If twice, the day of the declaration of
independence, and that of the inauguration of the
President, which completed the organization of the
Constitution, to be preferred; if four times, the day
of the treaty of alliance with France, and that of the
definitive treaty with Britain to be added. The

Presidential Etiquette 85

members of the two Houses of the Legislature, prin-
cipal officers of the government, foreign ministers
and other distinguished strangers only to be in-
vited. The numbers form in my mind an objection ;
but there may be separate tables in separate rooms.
This is practised in some European courts. I see no
other method in which foreign ministers can, with
propriety, be included in any attentions of the table
which the President may think fit to pay.

III. The President, on the levee days, either by
himself or some gentleman of his household, to give
informal invitations to family dinners on the days of
invitation. Not more than six or eight to be in-
vited at a time, and the matter to be confined es-
sentially to members of the Legislature and other
official characters. The President never to remain
long at table.

I think it probable that the last article will not
correspond with the ideas of most of those with
whom your Excellency may converse ; but on pretty
mature reflection, I believe it will be necessary to
remove the idea of too immense an inequality,
which I fear would excite dissatisfaction and cabal.
The thing may be so managed as neither to occasion
much waste of time nor to infringe on dignity.

It is an important point -to consider what persons
may have access to your Excellency on business.
The heads of departments will, of course, have this
privilege. Foreign ministers of some descriptions
will also be entitled to it. In Europe, I am informed,
ambassadors only have direct access to the chief
magistrate. Something very near what prevails

86 Alexander Hamilton

there would, in my opinion, be right. The distinc-
tion of rank between diplomatic characters requires
attention, and the door of access ought not to be too
wide to that class of persons. I have thought that
the members of the Senate should also have a right
of individual access on matters relative to the public
administration. In England and France, peers of
the realm have this right. We have none such in
this country, but I believe that it will be satisfactory
to the people to know that there is some body of
men in the state who have a right of continual com-
munication with the President. It will be con-
sidered a safeguard against secret combinations to
deceive him.

I have also asked myself. Will not the Representa-
tives expect the same privilege, and be offended if
they are not allowed to participate with the Senate ?
There is sufficient danger of this to merit considera-
tion. But there is reason for the distinction in the
Constitution. The Senate are coupled with the
President in certain executive functions, treaties,
and appointments. This makes them in a degree
his constitutional counsellors, and gives them a
peculiar claim to the right of access. On the whole,
I think the discrimination will be proper and may
be hazarded.

I have chosen this method of communication be-
cause I understood your Excellency that it would be
most convenient to you. The unstudied and un-
ceremonious manner of it will, I hope, not render it
the less acceptable. And if, in the execution of your
commands, at any time I consult frankness and

Public Lands 2>y

simplicity more than ceremony or profession, I
flatter myself you will not on that account distrust
the sincerity of my cordial wishes for your personal
happiness, and the success of your administration.

I have the honor to be, with the highest respect,
Your Excellency's most obedient and humble ser-
vant.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON

New York, May 5, 1789.

Dear Sir:

I beg you to accept my unfeigned thanks for your
friendly communication of this date, and that you
will permit me to entreat a continuation of them as
occasion may arise.

The manner chosen for doing it is most agreeable
to me. It is my wish to act right; if I err, the head
and not the heart shall, with justice, be chargeable.

With sentiments of sincere esteem and regard,
I am, dear sir, your obed't serv't,

Geo. Washington.

PUBLIC LANDS

REPORT OF A UNIFORM SYSTEM FOR THE DISPOSITION
OF THE LANDS, THE PROPERTY OF THE UNITED
STATES

Communicated to the House of Representatives, July 22, 1790.

That on the formation of a plan for the disposition
of the vacant lands of the United States, there ap-
pear to be two leading objects of consideration : one,

SS Alexander Hamilton

the facility of advantageous sale according to the
probable course of purchases ; the other, the accom-
modation of individuals now inhabiting the western
country, or who may hereafter emigrate thither.

The former, as an operation of finance, claims pri-
mary attention ; the latter is important, as it relates
to the satisfaction of the inhabitants of the western
country. It is desirable, and it does not appear im-
practicable, to conciliate both.

Purchasers may be contemplated in three classes:
moneyed individuals and companies, who will buy
to sell again; associations of persons who intend
to make settlements themselves ; single persons or
families now resident in the western country, or who
may emigrate thither hereafter. The two first will
be frequently blended, and will always want con-
siderable tracts. The last will generally purchase
small quantities. Hence a plan for the sale of the
western lands, while it may have due regard for the
last, should be calculated to obtain all the advan-
tages which may be derived from the two first
classes. For this reason it seems requisite that the
general land-office should be established at the seat
of government. 'T is there that the principal pur-
chasers, whether citizens or foreigners, can most
easily find proper agents, and that contracts for
large purchases can be best adjusted.

But the accommodation of the present inhabitants
of the western territory, and of tmassociated persons
and families who may emigrate thither, seems to
require that one office, subordinate to that at the
seat of Congress, should be opened in the north-

Public Lands 89

western, and another in the southwestern govern-
ment.

Each of these offices, as well the general one as
the subordinate ones, it is conceived, may be placed
with convenience under the superintendence of three
commissioners, who may either be pre-established
officers of government, to whom the duty may be
assigned by law, or persons specially appointed for
the purpose. The former is recommended by con-
siderations of economy, and it is probable would
embrace every advantage which could be derived
from a special appointment.

To obviate those inconveniences, and to facilitate
and insure the attainment of those advantages,
which may arise from new and casual circumstances,
springing up from foreign and domestic causes, ap-
pear to be objects for which adequate provisions
should be made in any plan that may be adopted.
For this reason, and from the intrinsic difficulty of
regulating the details of a specific provision for the
various objects which require to be consulted, so as
neither to do too much nor too little for either, it
is respectfully submitted, whether it would not be
advisable to vest a considerable latitude of discre-
tion in the commissioners of the general land-office,
subject to some such regulations and limitations as
follows, viz.:

That no land shall be sold, except such in respect
to which the titles of the Indian tribes shall have
been previously extinguished.

That a sufficient tract or tracts shall be reserved
and set apart for satisfying the subscribers to the

90 Alexander Hamilton

proposed loan in the public debt; but that no loca-
tion shall be for less than five hundred acres.

That convenient tracts shall from time to time be
set apart for the purpose of locations by actual set-
tlers, in quantities not exceeding to one person one
hundred acres.

That other tracts shall from time to time be set
apart for sales in townships of ten miles square, ex-
cept where they shall adjoin upon a boundary of
some prior grant, or of a tract so set apart, in which
cases there shall be no greater departure from such
form of location than may be absolutely necessary.

That any quantities may nevertheless be sold
by special contract, comprehended either within
natural boundaries or lines, or both.

That the price shall be thirty cents per acre, to be
paid either in gold or silver, or in public securities,
computing those which shall bear an immediate in-
terest of six per cent, as at par with gold and silver;
and those which shall bear a future or less interest,
if any there shall be, at a proportional value.

The certificates issued for land upon the proposed
loan shall operate as warrants within the tract or
tracts which shall be specially set apart for satisfying
the subscribers thereto, and shall also be receivable
in all payments whatsoever for land, by way of dis-
count, acre for acre.

That no credit shall be given for any quantity less
than a township of ten miles square, nor more than
two years' credit for any greater quantity.

That in every instance of credit, at least one
quarter part of the consideration shall be paid down,

Public Lands 91

and security, other than the land itself, shall be re-
quired for the residue. And that no title shall be given
for any tract, or part of a purchase, beyond the quanti-
ty for which the consideration shall be actually paid.

That the residue of the tract or tracts, set apart
for the subscribers to the proposed loan, which shall
not have been located within two years after the
same shall have been set apart, may then be sold on
the same terms as any other land.

That the commissioners of each subordinate office
shall have the management of all sales, and the issu-
ing of warrants for all locations, in the tracts to be
set apart for the accommodation of individual set-
tlers, subject to the superintendency of the com-
missioners of the general land-office, who may also
commit to them the management of any other sales
or locations which it may be found expedient to
place under their direction.

That there shall be a surveyor-general, who shall
have power to appoint a deputy surveyor-general in
each of the western governments, and a competent
number of deputy surveyors to execute in person all
warrants to them directed by the surveyor-general,
or deputy surveyor-generals, within certain districts
to be assigned to them respectively. That the sur-
veyor-general shall also have in charge all the duties
committed to the geographer-general by the several
resolutions and ordinances of Congress.

That all warrants issued at the general land-office
shall be signed by the commissioners, or such one of
them as they may nominate for that purpose, and
shall be directed to the surveyor-general. That all

92 Alexander Hamilton

warrants issued at a subordinate office, shall be
signed by the commissioners of such office, or by
such one of them as they may nominate for that
purpose, and shall be directed to the deputy sur-
veyor-general within the government. That the
priority of locations upon warrants shall be deter-
mined by the times of the applications to the deputy
surveyors ; and, in case of two applications for the
same land at one time, the priority may be deter-
mined by lot.

That the treasurer of the United States shall be
the receiver of all payments for sales at the general
land-office, and may also receive deposits of money,
or securities for purchases intended to be made at
the subordinate offices, his receipts, or certificates for
which, shall be received in payment at those offices.

That the secretary of each of the western govern-
ments shall be the receiver of all payments arising
from sales at the office of such government.

That controversies concerning rights to patents,
or grants of land, shall be determined by the com-
missioners of that office under whose immediate
direction, or jurisdiction, the locations in respect
to which they may arise shall have been made.

That the completion of all contracts, and sales
heretofore made, shall be under the direction of the
commissioners of the general land-office.

That the commissioners of the general land-office,
surveyor-general, deputy surveyors-general, and the
commissioners of the land-office in each of the west-
ern governments, shall not purchase, nor shall others
purchase for them, in trust, any public lands.

Public Lands 93

That the secretaries of the western governments
shall give security for the faithful execution of their
duties as receivers of the land-office.

That all patents shall be signed by the President
of the United States, or by the Vice-President, or
other officer of government acting as President, and
shall be recorded in the office either of the surveyor-
general, or of the clerk of the Supreme Court of the
United States.

That all surveys of land shall be at the expense of
the purchasers or grantees.

That the fees shall not exceed certain rates, to be
specified in the law, affording equitable compensa-
tions for the services of the surveyors, and estab-
lishing reasonable and customary charges for patents
and other office papers, for the benefit of the United
States.

That the commissioners of the general land-office
shall, as soon as may be, from time to time, cause all
the rules and regulations which they may establish to
be published, in one gazette at least, in each State,
and in each of the western governments where there
is a gazette, for the information of the citizens of the
United States.

Regulations like these will define and fix the most
essential particulars which can regard the disposal
of the western lands, and where they leave any thing
to discretion, will indicate the general principles or
policy intended by the Legislature to be observed,
for a conformity to which the commissioners will of
course be responsible. They will, at the same time,
leave room for accommodating to circumstances

94 Alexander Hamilton

which cannot beforehand be accurately appreciated,
and for varying the course of proceeding as experi-
ence shall suggest to be proper, and will avoid the
danger of those obstructions and embarrassments
in the execution, which would be to be apprehended
from an endeavor at greater precision and more
exact detail.

All which is humbly submitted.

Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury.

HEADS of topics FOR PRESIDENT'S SPEECH OF

DECEMBER 8, I790'

Draft by Hamilton, December i, 1790,

I. — Confidence that measures for the further sup-
port of public credit, and for the payment of the in-
terest and gradual extinguishment of the principal
of the public debt, will be pursued with zeal and
vigor ; and that, as one means to this, a plan for the
sale of the western lands will be adopted, which will
give them the effect intended, appropriating them
to the sinking fund, and which will extend the agri-
culture of the United States.

II. — Felicitation on the success of the measures
hitherto adopted for the support of public credit,
as witnessed by the rise of American stock, not only
in the United States, but in Europe. The public
credit cannot but acquire additional energy when
it is known that the resources hitherto in activity
have been more productive than was calculated
upon. As proof not only of the resources of the

^ Compare Writings of Washington, xii., p. 12.

President's Speech 95

country, but of the patriotism and honor of the
mercantile and marine citizens of the United States,
the punctuaHty of the former in discharging their
obligations has been exemplary.

III. — Information that a loan of 300,000 florins
has been effected in Holland, the terms and disposi-
tion of which (as far as any has been made) the Secre-
tary of the Treasury has been directed to explain.

IV. — Growing conviction in the minds of the
great body of the people of the utility and benefits
of a National Government. It is not to be doubted
that any symptoms of discontent which may have
appeared in particular places, respecting particular
measures, will be obviated by a removal of the mis-
apprehensions which may have occasioned them.

V. — Communication of the expedition against the
Indians, and of the motives to it.

VI. — Disturbed situation of Europe, particularly
of the great maritime powers. The precautions of a
prudent circumspection on the part of the United
States ought not to be neglected.

VII. — Almost total interruption of our Mediter-
ranean trade, from the dread of piratical depreda-
tions. Great importance of opening that trade, and
expediency of considering whether protection cannot
be afforded to it.

IX. — Symptoms of greater population than was
supposed — a further proof of progressive strength
and resource.

X. — Remarks on the abundance of the harvests,
affording an assurance of internal plenty, and the
means of easy payment for foreign supplies.

96 Alexander Hamilton

APPORTIONMENT OF REPRESENTATIVES

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON '

Philadelphia, April 4, 1792,

The Secretary of the Treasury presents his respects
to the President of the United States. He was in-
formed yesterday, by the Attorney- General, that his
opinion concerning the constitutionality of the Re-
presentation Bill was desired this morning. He now
sends it with his reasons, but more imperfectly
stated than he could have wished, through want of
time. He has never seen the bill, but from the
accoimts he has had of it, he takes it for granted
that he cannot have misconceived its contents, so
as to cause any material error in the process of his
reasoning.

The President desires an opinion, whether the act
entitled '* An act for an apportionment of representa-
tives among the several States, according to the first
enumeration," be constitutional or not.

It is to be inferred, from the provisions of the act,
that the following process has been pursued:

I. The aggregate nimibers of the United States

^ The first attempt to apportion representatives produced a long
wrangle in Congress. Finally the Senate bill, fixing the number of
representatives at one hundred and twenty, and giving representation
to the larger fractions, passed. Washington before deciding asked for
the written opinion of each member of his cabinet, which was divided.
Jefferson and Randolph thought it clearly unconstitutional. Hamil-
ton and Knox considered it constitutional. Washington vetoed the
bill. Another act was then passed fixing simply the ratio of repre-
sentation, and every ten years thereafter there was a wrangle. In 1850
we reverted to the Senate plan of fixing the number of representatives
first, and that system has prevailed.

Apportionment of Representatives 97

are divided by 30,000, which gives the total number
of representatives, or 120.

2. This number is apportioned among the several
States by the following rule: As the aggregate num-
bers of the United States are to the total number of
representatives found as above, so are the particular
numbers of each State to the number of represent-
atives of such State. But,

3. As this second process leaves a residue of eight
out of the 120 members unapportioned, these are
distributed among those States which, upon that
second process, have the largest fractions or re-
mainders.

As a ratio of 30,000 appears to have been adopted
as a guide, the question is, whether this ratio ought
to have been applied, in the first instance, to the
aggregate mmibers of the United States, or to the
particular numbers of each State ?

I am of opinion that either of these courses might
have been constitutionally pursued; or, in other
words, that there is no criterion by which it can be
pronounced decisively that the one or the other is
the true construction. Cases so situated often arise
on constitutions and laws.

The part of the Constitution in question is thus
expressed: ''Representatives and direct taxes shall be
apportioned among the several States according to
their respective numbers.'"

'T is plain that the same rule is to be pursued
with regard to direct taxes as with regard to repre-
sentatives.

What is the process which would naturally be

VOL. VIII.— 7.

98 Alexander Hamilton

followed in relation to the apportionment of direct
taxes ?

Clearly this — the total sum necessary would be first
ascertained.

This total sum would then be apportioned among
the several States by the following rule, viz. :

As the aggregate numbers of the United States are
to the whole sum required, so are the particular
numbers of a particular State to the proportion of
such State; which is, so far, the exact process that
has been followed by the bill in the apportionment
of representatives.

And hence results a strong argument for its con-
stitutionality.

If there had been no ratio mentioned in the Con-
stitution, 't is evident that no other course could
have been well pursued. No doubt, at least, of the
propriety of that which has been pursued, could have
been then entertained.

Does the mention of a ratio necessarily alter it?

The words of the Constitution, in respect to the
ratio, are these: ''The number of representatives
shall not exceed one for every 30,000, but each State
shall have at least one representative."

This provision may naturally be read and under-
stood thus: ''The whole number of the represent-
atives of the United States shall not exceed one to
every 30,000 of the aggregate numbers of the United
States; but if it should happen that the proportion
of the numbers of any State to the aggregate num-
bers of the United States should not give to such
State one representative, such State shall, never-

Apportionment of Representatives 99

theless, have one. No State shall be without a
representative. "

There is nothing in the form of expression to con-
fine the application of the ratio to the several num-
bers of the States. The mode of expression equally
permits its application to their joint or aggregate
numbers. The intent of inserting it is merely to
determine a proportional limit, which the number
of the House of Representatives shall not exceed.
This is as well satisfied by resorting to the collect-
ive, as to the separate, population of the respective
States.

There is, therefore, nothing in the last recited
clause to control or direct the sense of the first.

If it be said that the further process which appor-
tions the residue among the States having the great-
est remainders is the circumstance that renders the
bill unconstitutional, because it renders the repre-
sentation not strictly according to the respective num-
bers of the States, it may be answered that this is
but a necessary consequence of the first principle.

As there would commonly be left, by the first pro-
cess, an unapportioned residue of the total number
to be apportioned, it is of necessity that that residue
should be distributed among the several States by
some rule, and none more equal or defensible can be
found than that of giving a preference to the greatest
remainders.

If this makes the apportionment not mathemat-
ically '' according to the respective numbers of the sev-
eral States," so neither would the opposite principle
of construction.

loo Alexander Hamilton

Fractions, more or less great, would, in this case
also, and in a greater degree, prevent a conformity of
the proportion of representatives to numbers. The
same objection would lie, in this respect, against
both principles of construction, against that in the
bill at least.

Upon the whole, then, the bill apportions the re-
presentatives among the several States, according to
their respective numbers; so that the number of re-
presentatives does not exceed one for every 30,000
persons, each State having at least one member. It
therefore performs every requisition of the Con-
stitution ; and it will not be denied that it performs
this in the manner most consistent with equality.

There appears, therefore, no room to say that the
bill is unconstitutional, though there may be an-
other construction of which the Constitution is
capable. In cases where two constructions may
reasonably be adopted, and neither can be pro-
nounced inconsistent with the public good, it seems
proper that the legislative sense should prevail. The
present appears to the Secretary clearly to be such
a case.

INDIAN AFFAIRS

For the Federal Gazette.

Russell, under an affected moderation, veils the
most insidious and malignant designs, and slyly
propagates the basest slanders. This is evident
from the following passage of his second paper.

Indian Affairs loi

After stating a visionary and impracticable scheme
for avoiding a war with the Indians, he proceeds
thus : " But, then, how many officers had been want-
ing, how many lucrative contracts would have been
lost, and how great a waste of money would have
been prevented from flowing into the coffers of those
concerned in this business ? ' '

The plain inference from this is, that the public
officer who has an agency in making those contracts
shares in the profit of them, and that a part of the
money which is expended flows into his coffers. If
this is not his meaning, then Russell owes it to him-
self, and to justice, to disavow the inference. If it is
his meaning, then he owes it to the public to answer
the following questions: Does he know by what
public officer the contracts for supplying the army
are made ? Has he any ground to believe that that
officer ever advised a single step which has led to the
present Indian war ? Does he know what his official
conduct has been with regard to it? Does he know
what his private character has been as to pecuniary
affairs? Is he acquainted with a single fact or even
circumstance which can justify a suspicion that he
has ever been directly or indirectly interested in any
contract in which he has had an agency ?

Let him answer these questions, or otherwise as-
sign the grounds of his insinuation, or let him be
despised as a wanton calumniator.

Anti-Defamer.

I02 Alexander Hamilton

PRESIDENT'S SPEECH^

Draft by Hamilton.

November 6, 1793.

It is an abatement of the satisfaction with which I
meet you, on the present occasion, that in felicitating
you on the continuance of the national prosperity
generally, I am not able to add to it information that
the Indian hostilities, which have for some time dis-
tressed our northwestern frontier, have terminated.

You will doubtless learn with as much concern as
I communicate it, that reiterated endeavors to effect
a pacification have hitherto issued only in new and
outrageous proofs of persevering hostility on the
part of the tribes with whom we are in contest. An
earnest desire to procure tranquillity to the frontier,
to stop the further effusion of blood, to arrest the
progress of expense, to promote the prevalent wish
of the country for peace, have led to strenuous
efforts, through various channels, to effect that de-
sirable end, in which neither my own calculations of
the event, nor my scruples which may have occurred
concerning the dignity of government, have been
permitted to outweigh the important considerations
that have been mentioned.

A detail of the measures which have been adopted,
will be laid before you, from which I persuade my-
self it will appear to you, that means as proper and
as efficacious as could have been devised, have been
employed. The issue indeed of some of them is yet
depending, but while a favorable one is not to be

' Writings of Washington, xii., 27.

President's Speech 103

despaired of, every antecedent and collateral cir-
cumstance discourages an expectation of it.

In the course of these attempts, some valuable citi-
zens have fallen victims to their zeal for the public
service. A sanction hitherto respected even among
savages has not been sufficient to protect from
slaughter the messengers of peace. It will, I pre-
sume, be duly considered whether the occasion does
not call for an exercise of liberality towards the
families of the deceased.

It must add to your concern to know that in addi-
tion to the continuation of hostile appearances
among the tribes north of the Ohio, some threaten-
ing symptoms have lately been revived among some
of those south of it. According to the last accounts,
an attack upon the settlements within the territory
of the United States, was meditated on the part of
the Chickamagas who form a portion of the nation
of the Cherokees.

Further evidence, however, is necessary to ascer-
tain the reality and extent of the evils; and in
the meantime defensive precautions only have been
permitted.

It is not understood that any breach of treaty or
aggression on the part of the United States or citi-
zens is even alleged, as a pretext for the spirit of
hostility in this quarter. Other causes for it are in-
dicated, which it would be premature to particularize.

I have reason to believe that every practicable
exertion has been made to be prepared for the alter-
native of a continuance of the war in pursuance of the
provisions made by law. A large proportion of the

I04 Alexander Hamilton

troops authorized to be raised have been recruited,
but the number is still incomplete. A particular
statement from the proper department on this sub-
ject, and in relation to some other points which have
been suggested, will afford more precise information
as a guide to the legislative deliberations, and among
other things will enable Congress to judge whether
some additional stimulus to the recruiting service
may not be advisable.

In looking forward to the future expense of the
operations which may be necessary, I derive con-
solation from the information I receive, that, as far
as the product of the revenues for the present year
is known at the Treasury, there is a strong prospect
that no additional burdens on the community will
be requisite for the supplies of the ensuing year.
This, however, will be better ascertained in the
course of the present session ; and it is proper to add,
that the information proceeds upon the supposition
of no material extension of the spirit of hostility.

I cannot dismiss the subject of Indian affairs with-
out recalling to your attention the necessity of more
adequate provision for giving energy to the laws
throughout our interior frontiers, so as effectually
to restrain depredations upon the Indians, without
which every pacific system must prove abortive;
and also for enabling the employment of qualified
persons to reside as agents among the Indians, an
expedient of material importance in the successful
management of Indian affairs.

If some efficacious plan could be devised for carry-
ing on trade with the Indians, upon a scale adequate

President's Speech 105

to their wants, and under regulations calculated
to protect them from extortion and imposition, it
would prove hereafter a powerful means of preserv-
ing peace and a good understanding with them.

The prosperous state of our revenue has been in-
timated. This would be still more the case, were
it not for the impediments which in some places
continue to embarrass the collection of the duties
on home-made spirits. These impediments have
lessened, and are lessening, as to local extent; and
as applied to the community at large, the spirit of
acquiescence in the law appears to be progressive.

But symptoms of an increasing opposition having
recently manifested themselves in certain quarters,
particularly in one where the enjoyment of im-
mediate benefits from the common contributions of
the country was to have been expected to fortify the
general sense of respect and duty towards the gov-
ernment and its laws, and the disposition to share in
the public burdens, I thought a special interposition
on my part had become proper and advisable; and
under this impression I have issued a proclamation.

Measures have also been begun for the prosecution
of offenders; and Congress may be assured that
nothing within constitutional and legal limits which
may depend on me, shall be, wanting to assert and
maintain the just authority of the laws. In fulfill-
ing this trust, I shall count entirely upon the full co-
operation of the other departments of government,
and upon the zealous support of all good citizens.

I cannot forbear to bring again into the view of
the Legislature the expediency of a revision of the

io6 Alexander Hamilton

judiciary system. A representation from the judges
of the Supreme Court, which will be laid before you,
points out some of the inconveniences that are ex-
perienced. In the course of the administration of
the laws, considerations arise out of the structure of
that system which tend to impede their execution.
As connected with this subject, some provisions re-
specting the taking of bail upon processes out of the
courts of the United States, and a supplementary
definition of offences against the Constitution and
laws, and of punishment for such offences, are pre-
sumed to merit particular attention.

The interests of the nation, when well understood,
will be found to coincide with their moral duties.
Among these, it is an important one to cultivate
peace and friendship with our neighbors. To do
this, we should make provision for rendering the
justice we must sometimes require from them. I
recommend therefore to your consideration, whether
the laws of the Union should not be extended to
restrain our citizens from committing acts of violence
within the territories of other nations, which would
be punished were they committed within our own.
And in general, the maintenance of a friendly inter-
course with foreign nations will be presented to your
attention by the expiration of the laws for that pur-
pose, which takes place, if not renewed, at the close
of the present session.

In execution of the authority given by the Legis-
lature, measures have been taken for engaging some
artists from abroad to aid in the establishment of our
mint; others have been employed at home. Pro-

President's Speech 107

vision has been made of the requisite buildings, and
these are now putting into proper condition for the
purposes of the estabhshment. There has been also
a small beginning in the coinage of half dollars and
cents; the want of small coins in circulation calling
the first attention to them.

The regulation of foreign coins, in correspondency
with the principles of our national coinage, will, I
doubt not, be resumed and completed, being a mat-
ter essential to the due operation of the system, and
to order in our pecuniary concerns.

It is represented that the regulations contained in
the law which establishes the post-office, operate in
experiment against the transmission of newspapers
to different parts of the country. Should this, upon
due inquiry, be found to be the fact, the legislative
wisdom will, doubtless, apply a remedy, under a full
conviction of the great importance of facilitating the
circulation of political intelligence and information.

Information has been received of the adoption of
a constitution for the State of Kentucky. An event
so interesting to the happiness of the part of the
nation to which it relates, cannot but make a cor-
respondent impression. The communications con-
cerning it will be laid before you.

It is proper likewise to inform you that, since my
last communication on the subject, in further execu-
tion of the acts severally making provision for the
public debt, and for the reduction thereof, three new
loans have been effected, one for 3,000,000 of florins
at Antwerp, at four and a half per cent., and four
per cent, charges, and two others, each for 3,000,000

io8 Alexander Hamilton

of florins, at Amsterdam, at four per cent., and five
and five and a half per cent, charges. Among the
objects to which these funds have been directed to
be applied, the payment of the debts due to certain
foreign officers, according to the provision made for
that purpose during the last session, is included.

House of Representatives:

I entertain a strong hope that the state of the
national finances is now sufficiently matured to en-
able you to enter upon systematic and effectual ar-
rangements for the regular redemption and discharge
of the public debt, according to the right which has
been reserved to the government. No measure can
be regarded as more desirable, whether viewed with
an eye to its intrinsic importance, or to the general
sentiment and wish of the nation.

Provision likewise is requisite for the reimburse-
ment of the loan which has been made of the Bank
of the United States, pursuant to eleventh section
of the act by which it is incorporated. In fulfilling
the public stipulations in this particular, a valuable
saving may, it is expected, be made.

Appropriations for the service of the ensuing year,
and for such extraordinaries as may have occurred,
will demand and, I doubt not, will engage your early
attention.

Senate and House of Representatives :

I content myself with recalling your attention
generally, to such objects suggested in my former

Indian Affairs 109

communications as have not yet been finally acted
upon, and as are not previously particularized.

The results of your joint deliberations hitherto
will, I trust, be productive of solid and durable ad-
vantages to our constituents, and which, by con-
ciliating more and more their approbation, may
tend to strengthen their attachment to that con-
stitution of the government upon which depend,
under Divine Providence, their union, safety, and
prosperity.

Still further to secure these inestimable ends,
there is nothing which can have so powerful a ten-
dency as the careful cultivation of harmony, com-
bined with a due regard to stability in the public
councils.

INDIAN AFFAIRS

Cabinet Opinion.

June I, 1793.

My judgment balanced a considerable time on
the proposed measure ; but it has at length decided
against it, and very materially, on the ground, that
I do not think the United States can honorably or
morally, or with good policy, embark the Choc taws
in the war, without a determination to extricate
them from the consequences, even by force. Ac-
cordingly it is proposed that, in settling our differ-
ences with the Creeks, ''we mediate effectually the
peace of the Chickasaws and Choctaws"; which I
understand to mean, that we are to insist with the
Creeks on such terms of peace for them as shall

I lo Alexander Hamilton

appear to us equitable; and if refused, will exert
ourselves to procure them by arms. I am unwilling,
all circumstances foreign and domestic considered, to
embarrass the government with such an obligation.

Alexander Hamilton.

CONVENING CONGRESS

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON '

2 J Miles from Philadelphia, October 24, 1793.

Sir: — I arrived at my house yesterday evening,
where I found your letter of the 14th instant ; having
previously received that of the 25th of September, by
the circuitous route of Albany, the evening before
my departure from New York.

As to the right of the President to convene Con-
gress out of the ordinary course, I think it stands as
follows — ''he may on extraordinary occasions con-
vene both houses of Congress or either of them."
These are the words of the Constitution. Nothing
is said as to time or place — nothing restrictive as
to either; I therefore think they both stand on the
same footing. The discretion of the President ex-
tends to place as well as time. The reason of the
thing as well as the words of the Constitution would
extend it to both. The usual seat of the govern-
ment may be in possession of an enemy, it may be
swallowed up by an earthquake.

' This is an opinion as to the power of the President to convene
Congress at some place other than that to which they had adjourned.
The cause of the inquiry was the presence of yellow fever in Philadel-
phia.

Convening Congress iii

I know of no law that abridges in this respect the
discretion of the President — if a law could abridge a
constitutional discretion of either branch.

But the doubt with me is whether the '' extraor-
dinary occasion" mentioned in the Constitution be
not some unforeseen occurrence in the public affairs,
which renders it advisable for the public service to
convene Congress at some time different from that
which the Constitution or some law has established;
in other words, to anticipate their ordinary meeting,
to have a special session for a special object of public
business out of the pre-established course.

I doubt, therefore, whether the circumstance of a
contagious disease existing at the seat of govern-
ment be a constitutional ground for convening Con-
gress at another place, but at the same time they had
premeditated.

And I know that there are respectable opinions
against the power of the President to change the
place of meeting in such a case, so as I think to ren-
der it inexpedient to take the step.

But the President may recommend a meeting at
some other place, as a place of preliminary rendez-
vous for the members of the two houses, that they
may informally concert what further the exigency
may require, and my present opinion inclines in
favor of such a measure.

The question then would be, what place is the
most eligible. Obvious reasons render it desirable
that it should be as near Philadelphia as may con-
sist with the motive for naming such a place — to
wit, the safety of the members, i. Innovation upon

112 Alexander Hamilton

the existing arrangement with regard to the seat of
government ought to be avoided as much as possible.
2. Congress may think it necessary for regularity to
go within the limits of the city (though but for an
hour), to give legality by some summary act to an-
other place of meeting ; and with this view it will be
convenient to meet at no great distance from the
city. 3. The place recommended may influence the
place of session. The President and heads of de-
partments ought to be near Congress, but they can-
not be long remote from their offices, and a removal
of the public offices for one session would be in many
ways an evil. Lastly, the less the President in such
cases departs from the pre-established course, the
less room there will be for cavil.

All these reasons would operate in favor of Ger-
mantown, if competent only to the momentary
accommodation of Congress. Mr. Peters and some
other gentlemen affirm that it is. I have myself
great doubt on the point, and I have not had time to
examine, but I cannot help paying deference to the
opinion of those who assert its competency.

There is, however, another consideration not un-
worthy of attention. Experience seems to decide
satisfactorily that there would be due safety at Ger-
mantown; but it is very probable this would not
appear to be the case to the members generally.
The alarm appears to be greatest in proportion as
you go furthest from the seat of the disease. Yet I
should hope the President's recommendation, stating
the fact as evidenced by experience, would appease
the apprehensions of the parties concerned.

Convening Congress 113

If German town should not be found adequate, on
the score of accommodation, Trenton, Reading, Lan-
caster, and Wilmington are the places which present
themselves to choice as most eligible ; nothing more
northerly or southerly ought to be thought of. A
place in Pennsylvania will best please the Pennsyl-
vanians. They would be very jealous of Trenton,
and they would have some, though less, jealousy of
Wilmington; Lancaster would afford better accom-
modation than Reading. Wilmington would, I ap-
prehend, be the most agreeable of these places to
Congress.

But I am, upon the whole, of opinion that it will
be best to make Germantown do, if possible. It
will be time enough to decide when you arrive, and
the interval will be employed to examine the ground.

Mrs. Hamilton and myself are very sensible to the
obliging interest you have manifested on our re-
covery. Exercise and northern air have restored us
beyond expectation. We are very happy that Mrs.
Washington and yourself escaped.

I have the honor to remain, etc.

HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON

Fair Hill, November 3, 1793.

Sir: — Not having been in condition to attend you
yesterday, and (though free from fever) yet not
being well enough to go abroad immediately, I have
concluded to submit to you by a line the result of my
further reflections on the subject of my last letter.

I believe it will be altogether safe for the ensuing

VOL. VIII.— 8.

114 Alexander Hamilton

session of Congress to be held at Philadelphia, and
that the good of the public service requires it, if pos-
sible. Under the existing prospect, I do not think
it would be advisable for the President to give the
business a different direction by any preliminary
step. But as the apprehensions of distant mem-
bers will probably be too much alive, it is desirable
they should, if possible, be brought in the vicinity of
Philadelphia some days beforehand, to examine and
judge for themselves. It is likely they will then be
satisfied that they can safely sit in the city. If
otherwise, their sentiments concerning another place
can be collected, as a guide to the President. To
effect this end, I would advise that circular-letters
be written (say by the Attorney-General, the Sec-
retary of State not being here) to the respective
members, informally recommending to them, as on
the part of the President, to repair to Germantown
and its vicinity some days, not more than a week,
prior to the day for the meeting of Congress, giving
the reasons for this recommendation.

I prefer this to any public act, because there is an
inconvenience in giving any sort of formality to an
unauthoritative proceeding.

An objection to the proceeding is, that the remote
Southern members cannot be reached in time. But
the answer to this is, that they will probably come
forward, of course, to some neighboring State —
New York, Delaware, or Maryland, — and letters for
them may be lodged in each.

With true respect and attachment, I have the
honor to be, etc.

Objects to be Communicated 115

OBJECTS TO BE COMMUNICATED IN
SPEECH AND MESSAGES

(By Hamilton.)

1793-

I. — Proclamation.

II. — Embarrassments in carrying into execution
the principles of neutrality; necessity of some aux-
iliary provisions by law. * * *

III. — Expectation of indemnification given in re-
lation to illegal captures.

IV. — State of our affairs with regard to Great
Britain, Spain, and France — claim of Guarantee —
propositions respecting Trade.

V. — Indian affairs — failure of Treaty — state of
expedition under Wayne — prospects with regard to
Southern Indians.

VI. — Prudence of additional precautions for de-
fence, as the best security for the peace of the
country.

1 . Fortification of principal seaports.

2. Corps of efficient militia.

VII. — Completion of settlement of Accounts be-
tween the United and Individual States; Provision
for balances.

VIII. — Provision for a sinking fund.

IX. — Our revenues in the aggregate have con-
tinued to answer expectation as to productiveness,
but if the various objects pointed out, and which ap-
pear to be necessary to the public interest, are to be
accomplished, it can hardly be hoped that there will
not be a necessity for some moderate addition to
them.

ii6 Alexander Hamilton

X. — Prolongation of the Dutch instalment by way
of loan terms.

XL — Provision for the second instalment due to
the Bank of the United States.

XII. — For interest in the unsubscribed debt dur-
ing the present year. Quere.

XIII. — Communication of the state of cessions of
Light-houses. The cession in various instances has
not been entire; it has reserved a partial right of
jurisdiction for process; consequently is not strictly
conformable to law.

XIV. — Commissary to receive, issue, and account
for all public stores would conduce much to order
and economy.

PRESIDENT'S SPEECH '

Draft by Hamilton.

December 3, 1793.

It is greatly to be lamented, for the sake of hu-
manity, that the flame of war, which had before
spread over a considerable part of Europe, has,
within the present year, extended itself much fur-
ther; implicating all those powers with whom the
United States have the most extensive relations.
When it was seen here, that almost all the maritime
nations either were, or were likely soon to become,
parties to the war, it was natural that it should
excite serious reflections about the possible conse-
quences to this country. On the one hand, it ap-

' Writings of Washington, xii., 36.

President's Speech 1 1 7

peared desirable that no impressions in reference to
it should exist with any of the powers engaged, of a
nature to precipitate arrangements or measures tend-
ing to interrupt or endanger our peace. On the
other, it was probable that designing or inconsiderate
persons among ourselves might, from different mo-
tives, embark in enterprises contrary to the duties
of a nation at peace with nations at war with each
other; * * * and, of course, calculated to in-
vite and to produce reprisals and hostilities. Ad-
verting to these considerations, in a situation both
new and delicate, I judged it advisable to issue a
proclamation (here insert the substance of the pro-
clamation). The effects of this measure have, I
trust, neither disappointed the views which dic-
tated it, nor disserved the true interests of our
country.

The Commissioners charged with the settlement of
Accounts between the United and the Individual
States, completed that important business within
the time limited by law; and the balances which
they have reported have been placed upon the
Books of the Treasury. A copy of their Report,

bearing date the day of last, will be laid

before Congress for their information.

The importance of the object will justify me in
recalling to your consideration the expediency of a
regular and adequate provision for the redemption
and discharge of the Public Debt. Several obvious
considerations render the economy of time, in re-
lation to this measure, peculiarly interesting and
desirable.

ii8 Alexander Hamilton

It is necessary that provision should be also made
for paying the second instalment of the loan of
$2,000,000 from the Bank of the United States,
agreeably to the terms of that loan ; the first having
been paid pursuant to the propositions for that pur-
pose made during the last session.

On the first day of June last an instalment of
1,000,000 florins became payable on the loans of the
United States in Holland. This was adjusted by a
prolongation of the period of reimbursement, in na-
ture of a new loan, at an interest of five per cent.,
for a term of ten years. The charges upon this
operation were a commission of three per cent. It
will readily be perceived that the posture of Euro-
pean affairs is calculated to affect unfavorably the
measures of the United States for borrowing abroad.

The productiveness of the public revenues hitherto
has continued to equal the anticipations that were
formed of it ; but it is not expected that it will prove
commensurate with all the objects that have been
suggested. Some auxiliary provisions will, there-
fore, it is presumed, be requisite; but these, it is
hoped, can be made consistently with a due regard
to the convenience of our citizens, who cannot but
be sensible of the true wisdom of encountering a
small present addition to their contributions for the
public service, to avoid a future accumulation of
burdens.

President's Message 119

PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE ■

Draft by Hamilton.

December, 1793.

Since the application which was made to the Gov-
ernment of France for the recall of its present min-
ister, that minister has furnished new and material
causes of dissatisfaction with his conduct. But
these occasions of offence have hitherto passed with-
out particular notice, in the hope that it would not
be long before the arrival of an order of recall would
terminate the embarrassment, and in the desire, in-
spired by sentiments of respect and friendship for
his nation, to avoid as long as possible an act of ex-
tremity toward its agent. But a case has occurred
which is conceived to render further forbearance in-
consistent with the dignity and perhaps the safety
of the United States. It is proved, as will be seen by
papers now transmitted for the information of Con-
gress, that this foreign agent has proceeded to the
extraordinary lengths of issuing commissions in the
name of the French Republic to several of our citi-
zens, for the purpose of raising within the two Caro-
linas and Georgia a large military force, with the
declared design of employing them, in concert with
such Indians as could be engaged in the enterprise,
in an expedition against the colonies, in our neigh-
borhood, of a nation with which the United States
are at peace.

^ Writings of Washington, xii., 96. J. C. Hamilton dates this draft
January, 1794, but a comparison with Washington's writings seems to
show that it was prepared as an assistance in composing the message
of Dec. 5,1793. It may, however, have been made for a message which
was never sent.

I20 Alexander Hamilton

It would seem, likewise, from information con-
tained in other papers, herewith also communicated,
that a similar attempt has been going on in another
quarter, namely, the State of Kentucky; though
the fact is not yet ascertained with the requisite
authenticity.

Proceedings so unwarrantable, so derogatory to
the sovereignty of the United States, so dangerous
in precedent and tendency, appear to render it im-
proper that the person chargeable with them should
longer continue to exercise the functions and enjoy
the privileges of a diplomatic character.

The supersedence of the exercise of those functions,
nevertheless, being a measure of great delicacy and
magnitude, I have concluded not to come to an ulti-
mate determination, without first placing the subject
under the eye of Congress.

But unless the one or the other House shall, in the
meantime, signify to me an opinion that it is not ad-
visable so to do, I shall consider it my duty to adopt

that measure after the expiration of days

from this communication.

PROCLAMATION FOR A NATIONAL
THANKSGIVING^

Draft by Hamilton.

United States, January i, 1795.

By George Washington, President of the United States

When we review the calamities which afflict so

many other nations, and trouble the sources of indi-

^ Writings of Washington , xii . , 1 3 2 . Washington adopted Hamilton 's
draft verbatim.

Proclamation 1 2 1

vidual quiet, security, and happiness, the present
condition of the United States affords much matter
of consolation and satisfaction.

Our exemption hitherto from the evils of foreign
war, an increasing prospect of the continuance of
that precious exemption, the great degree of internal
tranquillity we have enjoyed, the recent confirma-
tion of that tranquillity by the suppression of an
insurrection which so wantonly threatened it; the
happy course of our public affairs in general; the
unexampled prosperity of all classes of our citizens;
are circumstances which mark our situation with pe-
culiar indications of the Divine beneficence toward us.

In such a state of things, it is in an especial man-
ner our duty as a people, with devout reverence and
affectionate gratitude, to acknowledge our many
and great obligations to Almighty God, and to im-
plore Him to continue and confirm the blessings we
experience.

Deeply penetrated with this sentiment, I, George
Washington, President of the United States, do re-
commend to all religious societies and denominations,
and to all persons whomsoever in the United States,
to set apart and observe Thursday, the 19th day of
February next, as a day of public thanksgiving and
prayer, and on that day to meet together and render
their sincere and hearty thanks to the great Ruler of
nations, for the manifold and signal mercies which
distinguish our lot as a nation, particularly for the
constitutions of government which unite, and by
their union establish, liberty with order, for the pre-
servation of our peace, foreign and domestic, for

122 Alexander Hamilton

the seasonable check which has been given to a
spirit of disorder, in the suppression of the late in-
surrection, and generally, for the prosperous course
of our affairs, public and private; and at the same
time humbly and fervently to beseech the kind
Author of these blessings graciously to prolong them
to us; to imprint in our hearts a deep and solemn
sense of our obligations for them; to teach us
rightly to estimate their immense value ; to preserve
us from the wantonness of prosperity from jeopard-
izing the advantages we enjoy, by culpable or delu-
sive projects ; to dispose us to merit the continuance
of His favors by not abusing them, by our gratitude
for them, and by a correspondent conduct as citizens
and as men to render this country more and more a
safe and propitious asylum for the unfortunate of
other countries; to extend among them true and
useful knowledge; to diffuse and establish habits of
sobriety, order, morality, and piety; and, finally, to
impart all the blessings we possess or ask for our-
selves to the whole family of mankind, that so men
may be happy and God glorified throughout the
earth. Done, etc.

EXPLANATION '

November ii, 1795.

A very virulent attack has recently been made
upon the President of the United States, the present

* This personal explanation appeared in the newspapers, and the
attacks which made such a defence necessary give a vivid idea of the
bitterness ot party politics at that time. The Democrats did not
hesitate to accuse Washington of abusing his high trust for pecuniary
advantage.

Explanation 123

Secretary of the Treasury, and myself, as his prede-
cessor in office, on the ground of extra payments to
the President on account of his salary.

The charges against all the three are no less heinous
than those of intentional violation of the Constitu-
tion, of the law, and of their oaths of office. I use
the epithet intentional, because though not expressly
used in the terms of the attack, it is implied in every
line of it, since an involuntary error of construction,
if that could ever be made out, would not warrant
the imputation ''of contemning and despising every
principle which the people have established for the
security of their rights, of setting at defiance all law
and authority, and of servile submission and com-
pliance with the lawless will and pleasure of a
President."

Were considerations personal to myself alone to
be considered, the present attempt would be treated
with no greater attention than has been shown to all
the anonymous slanders by which I. have been so
long and so implacably persecuted. But convinced
by a course of observation for more than four years,
that there exists in this country an unprincipled and
daring combination, to obstruct by any means,
which shall he necessary and can he commanded, not
short even of force, the due and efficient administra-
tion of the present government, to make our most
important national interests subservient to those of
a foreign power, and as means to these ends to de-
stroy, by calumny and misrepresentation, the con-
fidence of the people in the truly virtuous men of our
country, and to transfer it, with the power of the

124 Alexander Hamilton

state, to ambitious hypocrites and intriguing dema-
gogues, perhaps corrupted partisans; perceiving
likewise, that this infatuated corabination, in the
belief that the well-earned esteem and attachment
of his fellow-citizens towards the Chief Magistrate

'^ of the United States, is the principal remaining
actual obstacle to the execution of their plan, are
making the most systematic efforts to extinguish
those sentiments in the breasts of the people, I think
it a duty to depart from my general rule of conduct,
and to submit to the public with my name, an ex-
planation of the principles which have governed the
Treasury Department on the point in question.

I shall state in the first place, that the rule with
regard to expenditures and appropriations which has
uniformly regulated the practice of the department
is this, viz.: to issue no money from the Treasury,
hut for an object for which there was a law previously
passed making an appropriation, and designating the
fund from which the money was to arise; hut there
heing such a law, and an adequate fund to support the
expenditure, it was deemed justifiable, as well before

' as after the service was performed, or the supply ob-
tained, for which the appropriation was designed, to
make disbursements from the Treasury for the object,
if it appeared safe and expedient so to do. If made

. before, it was an advance or anticipation, for which
the party was charged, and held accountable till
exonerated by the performance of the service, or the
furnishing of the supply. If afterwards, it was a
payment, and went to some general head of account
as such.

Explanation 125

Thus, if a sum was appropriated for provisions for
the army for a particular year, it was common to
make advances on account to the contractors, long
before the supplies were furnished. If the law was
passed in one year for the next, there would be no
hesitation to make the advance immediately after
the passing of the law, and before the year to which
the appropriation was applicable had commenced.
So also sums would be furnished to the Department
of War, in anticipation of the monthly pay of the
officers and soldiers, and advances on account of pay,
in particular circumstances, and for good reasons,
would be actually made by that department to the
officers and soldiers. And so likewise advances have
been made for the use of the President and the mem-
bers of both houses of Congress, in anticipation of
their respective compensations.

It will without difficulty be comprehended, that
this practice of the Treasury has in some cases been
essential to the due course of the public service.

Every good judge will be sensible that from the
insufficiency of individual capitals to such large ad-
vances as the supplies of an army require, it was
indispensable to the obtaining of them, that anticipa-
tions from the Treasurv would enable the contract-
ors to do, what otherwise they would have been
unable to do ; and that these anticipations must also
have had the effect of procuring the supplies on
cheaper terms to the United States.

When it is answered to us, that the army has
operated for several years past at several hundred
miles' distance from the seat of government; and a

126 Alexander Hamilton

considerable part of the year, from the rudeness of
the country, and obstructions of the waters, it is im-
practicable to transmit moneys to the scenes of pay-
ment, it will be perceived that without advances
from the Treasury in anticipation of the pay, not
only a compliance with the engagement of the gov-
ernment would have been impossible, but the troops
must have been always left most unseasonably in
arrear. In June, 1794, Congress passed a law, de-
claring that the army should in future be paid in
such a manner as that the arrears should not exceed
two months. Compliance with this regulation ren-
ders anticipations a matter of physical necessity, yet
that law gave no special authority for the purpose.

A particular case, by way of example, in which,
different from general rules, advances or anticipa-
tions in the War Department are necessary, respects
the recruiting service. The officers, who are for a
long time distant from their corps, require the ac-
commodation of an advance of pay to be able to
discharge their duty. Toward the possibility of en-
listing men, it is indispensable they should carry with
them the bounty money. Another, upon conjec-
ture of what may be done, and with the possibility
that from not being able to obtain the men the ul-
timate expenditure may not take place. This in-
stance will suggest to reflection an infinite number
of cases in the course of service in which a disburse-
ment from the Treasury must precede the execution
of the object, and may exceed the sum finally requi-
site for it.

These cases indicate the expediency and even

Explanation 127

necessity of the construction which has regulated the
practice of the Treasury. And it might be shown, if
necessary, that it is analogous to the practice under
the other government of the United States, and
under other governments; and this too when the
theory of expenditure equally is, as expressed in our
Constitution, that no money shall be expended, but
in consequence of an appropriation by law.

It remains to see whether this rule of conduct, so
indispensable in the practice of the department, be
permitted by a fair interpretation of the Constitu-
tion and the laws.

The general injunction of the Constitution (article
i., § ix.) is, that *'no money shall be drawn from the
Treasury but in consequence of appropriations made
bylaw."

That clause appears to me to be exactly equivalent
to this other clause: ''No money shall be drawn
from the Treasury, but for which there is an appro-
priation made by law"; in other words, before
money can legally issue from the Treasury for any
purpose, there must be a law authorizing an expendi-
ture, and designating the object and the fund.
Then such a law is passed. This being done, the
disbursement may be made consistently with the
Constitution, either by way of advance, or anticipa-
tion, or by way of payment. It may precede or
follow the service, supply, or other object of ex-
penditure. Either will equally satisfy the words
"in consequence of," which are not words of strict
import, but may be taken in several senses — in one
sense, that is ''in consequence of a thing which

128 Alexander Hamilton

being followed upon it, follows it in order of time. A
disbursement must be either an advance, or anticipa-
tion, or a payment. 'T is not presumable that the
Constitution meant to distinguish between these two
modes of disbursement. It must have intended to
leave this matter wholly to convenience.

The design of the Constitution in this provision
was, as I conceive, to secure these important ends,
— that the purpose, the limit, and the fund of every
expenditure should be ascertained by a previous
law. The public security is complete in this par-
ticular, if no money can be expended, but for an
object, to an extent, and out of a fund, which the laws
have prescribed.

Even in cases which affect only individual inter-
ests, if the terms of a law will bear several meanings,
that is to be preferred which will best accord with
convenience. In cases that concern the public, this
rule is applicable with still greater latitude. Public
convenience is to be promoted ; public inconveniences
to be avoided. The business of administration
requires accommodation to so great a variety of
circumstances, that a rigid construction would in
countless instances arrest the wheels of government.
It has been shown that the construction that has
been adopted at the Treasury is in many cases es-
sential in practice. This inclines the scale in favor
of it, — the words *'in consequence of," admitting
of various significations.

The practice of the Legislature as to appropriation
laws favors this construction.

These laws are generally distinct from those which

Explanation 129

create the cause of expenditure. Thus the act which
declares that the President shall be allowed twenty-
five thousand dollars per annum; that which de-
clares that each senator and representative shall be
entitled to so much per day ; that which determines
that each officer and soldier shall have so much per
month, etc., — neither of these acts is an act of ap-
propriation. The Treasury has not considered itself
authorized to expend a single cent upon the basis of
any such act; regarding it merely as constituting a
claim upon the government for a certain compensa-
tion, but requiring, prior to an actual disbursement
for such claim, that a law be passed, authorizing the
disbursement out of a specified fund. This is what
is considered as the law by which the appropriation
is made, from which results to the public a double
security.

Hence every year a particular act (sometimes
more than one) is passed, appropriating certain
sums for the various branches of the public service,
and indicating the funds from which the moneys are
to be drawn. The object, the sum, and the fund
are all that are to be found in these acts. They are
commonly, if not universally, silent as to any thing
further.

This I regard as constructive of the clause in the
Constitution. The appropriation laws are in execu-
tion of that provision, and fulfilall its purposes, and
they are silent as to the distinction between anticipa-
tion and payment ; in other words, as to the manner
of disbursement.

Hence I conclude, that if there exist a law appro-

voL. vni. — 9.

130 Alexander Hamilton

priating a certain sum for the salary of the President,
an advance upon that sum in anticipation of the ser-
vice is as constitutional as a payment after the ser-
vice has been performed. In other words, that the
advance of a quarter's salary at the beginning of a
quarter is as much warranted by the Constitution
as the payment of it at the end of a quarter.

It is in this sense that the present Secretary of the
Treasury has affirmed, that ''not one dollar has at
any time been advanced for the use of the President
for which there was not an existing appropriation."
He did not mean to say that no money had been ad-
vanced in anticipation of the service, for the fact is
otherwise; but nothing is more true than that the
sums disbursed were within the limits of the sums
appropriated. If there was an excess at the end of
one year, there had been a previous appropriation
for a succeeding year, upon which that excess was an
advance.

It is objected to this practice, that the death of the
party between the advance to him and the expira-
tion of an equivalent term of service, by superseding
the object of the advance, would render it a mis-
expenditure of so much money, and therefore a viola-
tion of the Constitution.

I answer, that the same casualty might have the
same effect in other cases, in which it would be
against common-sense to suppose that an advance
might not be made with legality and propriety.
Suppose, for example, a law was to be passed direct-
ing a given quantity of powder to be purchased for
public use, and appropriating a definite sum for the

Explanation 13^

purchase; and suppose intelligence brought to the
Secretary of the Treasury that the quantity re-
quired could be procured for prompt payment at
Boston. It cannot in such case be doubted that the
sum appropriated might legally be advanced to an
agent to proceed to Boston to make the purchases.
Yet, that agent might die, and the money never be
applied according to its destination, or the desired
quantity might be procured for a less sum, and a
balance remain in his hands. In either case, this
would be money disbursed which was not applied
to the object of the law. In the last case, there is
no final object for the disbursement, because the
balance is a surplus. This proves that the possi-
bility of a failure, or falling short of the object for
which an advance is made, is not an objection to its
legality. Indeed, the consequence is a possible one
in every case of an anticipation, whether to con-
tractors or to other public agents, for a determinate
or an indeterminate purpose.

The only consequence is, that the sums unapplied
must be accounted for and refunded. The distinc-
tion here again is between an advance and a payment.
More cannot certainly be finally paid than is equal
to the object of an appropriation, though the sum
appropriated exceed the sum necessary. But more
may be advanced, to the full extent of the appro-
priation, than may be ultimately exhausted by the
object of the expenditure, on the condition, which
always attends an advance, of accounting for the
application, and refunding an excess. This is a direct
answer to the question, whether more can be paid

132 Alexander Hamilton

than is necessary to satisfy the object of an appro-
priation. More cannot be paid, but more may be
advanced on the accountability of the person to
whom it is advanced.

But risk of loss to the public may attend this prin-
ciple? This is true, but it is as true in all the cases
of advances to contractors, etc., as in those of ad-
vances upon salaries and compensations. Nor does
this point of risk affect the question of legality. It
touches merely that of a prudent exercise of discre-
tion. When large sums are advanced, it is usual to
obtain security for their due application, or for in-
demnification. This security is greater or less ac-
cording to the circumstances of the parties to whom
the advances are made. When small sums are ad-
vanced, especially, if for the purposes quickly ful-
filled, and to persons who are themselves adequate
sureties, no collateral securit}^ is demanded. The
head of the department ''is responsible to the gov-
ernment for observing proper measures and taking
proper precautions." If he acts so as to incur
justly the charge of improvidence or profusion, he
may be dismissed, or punished, according to the
nature of his misconduct.

But the principle which is set up would (it is said)
be productive of confusion, distress, and bankruptcy
at the Treasury, since the appropriation for the sup-
port of government is made payable out of the ac-
cruing duties of each year; and an established right
in the officers of government to claim their com-
pensations, which amount to several hundred thou-
sand dollars per annum, either on the first day of the

Explanation 133

year, or on the first day of a quarter, before the
services were rendered, would create a demand at a
time when there might not, and possibly would not,
be a single shilling in the Treasury, arising out of
that appropriation, to satisfy it. These ideas with
regard to the administration of the fund are very
crude and incorrect, but it would complicate the
subject to go into the development.

It is not pretended that there is an established right
in the officers to claim their salaries by anticipation,
at the beginning of a year, or at the beginning of a
quarter. No such right exists. The performance of
the service must precede the right to demand pay-
ment. But it does not follow that because there is
no right in the officer to demand payment, it may
not be allowable for the Treasury to advance upon
account for good reasons. A discretion of this sort
in the head of the department can, at least, involve
no embarrassments to the Treasury, nor the formida-
ble evils indicated; for the officer who makes the
advance, being himself the judge, whether there is a
competent fund, and whether it can be made with
convenience to the Treasury, he will only make it
when he perceives that no evil will ensue.

Let me recur to the example of advances to con-
tractors for supplying the army. Suppose that in the
terms of the contract certain advances were stipu-
lated and made, but it turned out, nevertheless, that
the contractor, disappointed in the funds on which
he had relied, could not execute his contract without
further advances. Here there would be no right on
his part to demand such further advances ; but there

134 Alexander Hamilton

would be a discretion in the Treasury to make them.
This is the example of a discretion to do what there
is not a right to demand. The existence of this dis-
cretion can do no harm, because the head of the
Treasury will judge whether the state of it permits
^' the required advances. But it is essential that the
discretion should exist, because, otherwise, there
might be a failure of supplies which no plan that
could be substituted might be able to avert.

Yet the discretion is in neither case an arbitrary
one; it is one which the head of the department is
responsible to exercise with a careful eye to the pub-
lic interest and safety. The abuse of it — in other
words, the careless or wanton exercise of it, would
be a cause of dismission for incapacity, or of pun-
ishment for malconduct.

Thus, advances on account of salaries, or to con-
tractors for procuring public supplies, might be
carried so far, and so improvidently managed, as to
be highly culpable and justly punishable; but this
is a different question from the violation of Con-
stitution or law.

In all the cases it is a complete answer to the ob-
jection of embarrassment to the Treasury, that not
; the will of the parties, but the judgment of the head
of the department is the rule and measure of the
. advances which he may make, within the bounds of
the sums appropriated by law.

I consider the law which has been cited with re-
gard to the pay of the army, as a legislative recogni-
tion of the rule of practice at the Treasury. The
Legislature could not have been ignorant that it was

Explanation 135

impracticable at certain seasons of the year to con-
vey the money to the army to fulfil their injunction,
without an advance from the Treasury before the
pay became due. They presuppose a right to make
this advance, and enjoin that the troops shall not be
left more than two months in arrear. The origin of
this law enforces the observation. It is known that
it passed in consequence of a representation that the
pay of the army was left too long in arrear, and it
was intended to quicken the measures of payment.
No person in either house of the Legislature, I be-
lieve, doubted that there was power to precede the
service by advances, so as to render the payment
even more punctual than was enjoined.

Indeed such advances, when the army operated at
a distance, were necessary to fulfil the contract with
the army. It became due monthly, and in strict-
ness of contract, was to be made at the end of each
month, — a thing impossible, unless advanced from
the Treasury before it became due. No special au-
thority was ever given for this purpose to the Treas-
ury, but it appears to have been left to take its
course on the principle that the disbursement might
take place as soon as there was an appropriation,
though in anticipation of the term of service.

The foregoing observations vindicate, I trust, the
construction of the Treasury as to the power of
making disbursements in anticipation of services and
supplies, if there has been a previous appropriation
by law for the object, and if the advances never ex-
ceed the amount appropriated ; and at the same time
evince that this practice involves no violation of the

136 Alexander Hamilton

constitutional provisions with respect to appropri-
ations.

I proceed to examine that clause which respects
the pay of the President. It is in these words : " The
President shall, at stated times, receive for his ser-
vices a compensation which shall neither be increased
nor diminished during the period for which he shall
have been elected, and he shall not receive within
that period any other emolimient from the United
States or any of them."

I understand this clause as equivalent to the follow-
ing : * 'There shall be established by law for the services
of the President a periodical compensation, which shall
not be increased nor diminished during the term for
which he shall have been elected, and neither the
United States nor any State shall allow him any emol-
ument in addition to his periodical compensation."

This will, I think, at first sight appear foreign to
the question of provisional advance on account of
the compensation periodically established by law for
his services.

The manifest object of the provision is to guard
the independence of the President from the legisla-
tive control of the United States or of any State, by
the ability to withhold, lessen, or increase his com-
pensation.

It requires that the law shall assign him a definite
compensation for a definite time. It prohibits the
Legislature from increasing or diminishing this com-
pensation during any term of his election, and it
prohibits every State from granting him an addi-
tional emolument. This is all that the clause imports.

Explanation 137

It is therefore satisfied as to the United States,
when the Legislature has provided that the President
shall be allowed a certain sum for a certain term of
time; and so long as it refrains from making an
alteration in the provision. All beyond this is for-
eign to the subject.

The Legislature having done this, an advance by
the Treasury in anticipation of the service cannot be
a breach of the provision. 'T is in no sense an addi-
tional allowance by the United States. 'T is a mere
advance or loan upon account of the established
periodical compensation ; will legal ideas, or common
parlance, warrant the giving the denomination of
additional compensation, to the mere anticipation of
the term of an established allowance? If they will
not, 't is plain such an advance is no breach of this
part of the Constitution „

If the clause is to be understood literally, it leads
to an absurdity. The terms are, ''The President
shall at stated times receive,'' etc.; and again, ''he
shall not receive within that period," etc.

His allowance is at the rate of 25,000 dollars per
annum, 6,250 dollars quarter-yearly. Suppose at
the end of a year an arrear of 5,000 dollars was due
to him, which he omits to receive till some time in
the succeeding year, and in the succeeding year ac-
tually receives that balance with his full salary for
the last year. T is plain, that he would not have
received in the whole more than he was allowed by
law, and yet in the stated period of one year he would
have received 30,000 dollars, five thousand more
than his salary for the year. In a literal sense, then,

138 Alexander Hamilton

constitutional provision as to actual payment would
not have been complied with; for within the first
stated period he would not have received the compen-
sation allotted, and within the second of them he
would have received more. In a literal sense it would
be necessary to make the payment at the precise
day, to the precise amount, neither more nor less,
which as a general rule the indispensable forms of
the Treasury render impossible. It follows that ac-
tual receipt or payment are not the criterion — but
the absolute definitive allowance by law. An ad-
vance beforehand, or a payment afterward, are
equally consistent with the true spirit and meaning
of this part of the Constitution.

Let us now see if the construction of the Treasury
violates the law which establishes the President's
compensation.

The act of the 29th of September, 1789, allows to
the President at the rate of 25,000 dollars per an-
num, to commence from the time of his entering on
the duties of his office, and to he paid quarterly out of
the Treasury of the United States.

The question is, what is to be understood from
these words, ''to be paid quarterly out of the Treasury
of the United States''?

The conception of the Treasury has been, that
these words, as used in this and in the analogous
cases, were meant to define the time when the right
of an individual to the compensation earned became
absolute, not as a command to the Treasury to issue
the money at a precise day and no other.

As mentioned above, the indispensable forms of

Explanation 139

the Treasury, in compliance with the law establish-
ing the department, and to secure a due accountabil-
ity, make it impracticable to pay at the day ; and if
expressions of the kind in question are to be con-
strued literally, and as a positive injunction to the
Treasury to issue the money at the period defined,
it will be as much a breach of the law to pay after-
ward as to advance beforehand.

The position that an after-payment would be a
breach of the law, will hardly be contended for ; and
if not, the alternative seems to be the construction
adopted by the Treasury. Such expressions denote
simiply, that at certain periods individuals acquire a
perfect right to particular sums of money for their
services, which it becomes a matter of course to pay ;
but they are not obliged to receive it at the day, nor
is the Treasurer restrained from paying it afterward,
or from anticipating by way of loan, if there are ade-
quate reasons for such anticipation.

It is not true, as alleged, that the invariable prac-
tice of the Treasury as to compensations for services
differs in principle from what was done in the case
of the President.

Instances to the contrary have been stated. As to
what regards the army, there has been sufficient
explanation.

But it will be useful to be more particular as to the
course which has been pursued with reference to the
two houses of Congress.

The law that regulates their compensations (passed
the 29th of September, 1789) allows to each member
a compensation of six dollars for every day he shall

I40 Alexander Hamilton

attend the House to which he belongs, together with
six dollars for every twenty miles of distance to and
from his place of residence; and directs that the
compensation which shall be due shall be certified
by the President of the Senate or Speaker of the
House of Representatives, and shall be paid as pub-
lic accounts are paid out of the Treasury.

By an arrangement between each house and the
Treasury Department, the course actually pursued
has been as follows :

Certain gross sums, usually at the commencement
of each session, and from time to time afterward,
have been advanced from the Treasury, at request,
to the President of the Senate for the members of
the Senate, to the Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives for the members of that house, on account,
and frequently in anticipation, of their accruing
compensations. The President of the Senate in the
Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives in that house, disbursed the moneys to the
individuals, and afterward, upon the close of each
session, settled an account at the Treasury, accom-
panied with the certificates required by the law, and
the receipts of the members, which were examined,
adjusted, and passed, as other public accounts.

Whether there were any advances actually made to
the members, in anticipation of their compensations,
was a point never discussed between the Treasury
and the presiding officers of the two houses with
whom the money was deposited. But I understand
that examples of such advances did exist in relation
to the House of Representatives. The fact is, how-

Explanation 141

ever, immaterial to the point in issue ; that must be
tested by the times of the advances from the Treasury;
and it is certain that these were usually made in
anticipation of compensations to grow due; and it is
also certain that the course was well understood by
both houses, and is exhibited by the accounts of the
Treasurer laid before them in each session.

If, therefore, the advances for the President were
unconstitutional and illegal, those for both houses of
Congress were equally so; and if the President be
chargeable with a violation of the Constitution, of the
laws, and of his oath of office, on account of extra
advances to his secretaries, whether with or without
his privity, the members of both houses of Congress,
without exception, have been guilty of the same
crimes, in consequence of the extra advances, with
their privity, to the presiding officers of their re-
spective houses. A distinction may possibly be
attempted to be taken in the two cases from this cir-
cumstance, that the law which allots the compensa-
tion of the members of the two houses does not use
the words, " to be paid every day out of the Treasury, '*
while that which establishes the President's compen-
sation does use the terms, '' to be paid quarterly out
of the Treasury. " But this distinction would be evi-
dently a cavil. When a law fixes the term of a com-
pensation, whether per day, per month, per quarter,
or annum, if it says nothing more, it is implied that
it is payable at each epoch out of the Treasury, in
the same sense as if this was expressly said. This
observation applies as well to the monthly pay of the
army as to the daily pay of Congress.

142 Alexander Hamilton

Having examined the question as it stands upon
the Constitution and the laws, I proceed to examine
the course of the fact.

But previous to this I shall take notice of one
point about which there have been doubts — and
which it is not within my present recollection
whether definitely settled or not by the accounting
officers of the department. It respects the time of
the commencement of the President's compensation.
The law establishing it refers to the time of his en-
tering upon the duties of his office, but without de-
fining that time.

When in a constitutional and legal sense did the
President enter upon the duties of his office ?

The Constitution enjoins that before he enters
upon the execution of his office, he shall take a cer-
tain oath, which is prescribed. This oath was not
taken till the 30th of April, 1789. If we date the
entrance upon the duties of his office at the time of
taking this oath, it determines the epoch to be the
30th of April, 1789.

The purpose of the arrangement which was made
for the payment of the members of Congress was
twofold. It was to obviate embarrassment to them
by facilitating and accelerating the receipt of their
compensations, and to avoid an inconvenient multi-
plication of adjustments, entries, warrants, and pay-
ments. The theory of the provision admitted of as
many Treasury settlements, entries, warrants, and
payments, each day, as there were members in both
houses.

But there is room for another construction. The

Explanation 143

3d of March, 1789, is the day when the term for
which the President, the Vice-President, and the
members of the Congress were first elected, was
deemed to commence. The Constitution declares
that the President shall hold his office for four years ;
and it is presumable that the clause respecting his
compensation contemplates its being for the whole
term for which he is to hold his office. Its object
may otherwise be evaded.

It is also, I believe, certain, that the President may
execute his office and do valid acts as President with-
out previously taking the oath prescribed; though
in so doing, if voluntarily, he would be guilty of a
breach of the Constitution, and would be liable to
punishment. The taking the oath is not, therefore,
necessarily, the criterion of entering upon the duties
of office.

It is a fact, if I remember right, that the Presi-
dent was at New York, the place assigned for
the first meeting of the government, on the 3d of
March, 1789, which might be considered as an en-
trance upon the duties of his office; though from
the delays which attended the meeting of Con-
gress, the oath was deferred till the 30th of April
following.

On the strength of these facts, it may be argued,
that by force of the Constitution, dating the com-
mencement of the President's term of service on the
3d of March, 1789, the law respecting his compensa-
tion ought to be considered as referring to that
period, for a virtual entrance upon the duties of his
office.

144 Alexander Hamilton

In stating this construction, I must not be under-
stood to adopt it. I acknowledged that the other,
as most agreeable to the more familiar sense of the
law terms, has appeared to me preferable, though I
had reason to believe that an important officer of the
government (I do not mean the President) once
thought otherwise. The result, in point of fact, will
vary, as the one or the other is deemed the true
construction.

I return to an examination of the course of the
transaction.

Authentic statements which have been published,
with some supplementary ones received from the
Treasury upon the occasion, exhibit the following
results.

ist Result. The sums advanced for the use of
the President from the Treasury have never exceeded
the sums previously appropriated by law: though
they have sometimes exceeded, sometimes fallen
short, of the sums actually due for services. This is
thus explained:

An Act of the 29th of September, 1789, appropriated
for the compensation of the President . .$25,000

The sums to the 8th of April, 1790, and charged to

this appropriation, are ..... 25,000

An Act of the 26th of March, 1790, appropriated

for the same purpose ..... 25,000

The sums advanced from May 4, 1790, to 28th
February, 1 79 1 , and charged to this appropria-
tion, are ....... 25,000

An Act of the nth February, 1791, appropriated

for the same purpose ..... 25,000

Explanation 145

The sums advanced from the 28th February, 1 791,
to 27th of December in the same year, and
charged to this appropriation, are . . .$22,150

Excess of appropriation beyond the advances . 2,850

An Act of the 23d December, 1791, appropriated

for the same purpose ..... 25,000

The sums advanced from the 3d January, 1792, to
the 15th January, 1793, and charged to this
appropriation, are . ..... 25,000

An Act of the 28th February, 1793, appropriates

for the same purpose ..... 25,000

The sums advanced from the 9th March, 1793, to
27th of December in the same year, and
charged to this appropriation, are . . 25,000

An Act of the 14th of March, 1794, appropriates

for the same purpose ..... 25,000

The sums advanced from the 1 7th of March, 1 794,
to the ist of January, 1795, and charged to
the same appropriation, are .... 25,000

An Act of the 2d of January, 1795, appropriated

for the same purpose ..... 25,000

The sums advanced from the 12th of January,
1795, and prior to the ist of October in the
same year, and charged to this appropriation,
are ........ 12,500

Excess of appropriation beyond advances, on the

ist of October, 1795 ..... 12,500

Excess of appropriation on the Act of the i ith of

February, 1791 2,850

Total excess of appropriations beyond advances, to

the ist of October, 1795 . . . $15,350

VOL. VUI.— 10,

146 Alexander Hamilton

The residue of the proposition is illustrated by
the quarterly statement of salary and advances at
foot.

2d Result. The Treasury has never been in ad-
vance for the President beyond the sums actually
accrued, and due to him for services, to the amount
of one quarter's salary. The largest advance at any
time is $6,154. A quarter's salary is, $6,250. De-
duct the sums at certain times in arrear from those
at other times in advance, the average of the ad-
vances for the whole term of his service is about

The particulars of this result appear in the state-
ment at foot. This statement is digested by a quar-
ter of the calendar year, which is the established
course of the Treasury, and a course essential to
the order of its affairs ; that is to say, it is essential
there should be certain fixed periods to which the
ordinary stated disbursements are referred, and in
conformity with which the accounts of the Treasury-
are kept.

3d Result. On the ist of October, 1795, there was
actually due to the President, for his compensation,
over and above all advances for his use, the sum of
$846. This likewise appears from the statement at
foot, and entirely refutes the malevolent suggestion
which has appeared, of an accumulation of advances
to twelve or fifteen thousand dollars.

4th Result. The sums advanced for the President
prior to the commencement of the term of his second
election, the 3d of March, 1793, fall short of the
sums appropriated for his compensation, $2,850.
Thus:

Explanation i47

The aggregate of the sums appropriated for four
years, from the 29th of September, 1789, to
the 23d of December, 1791, inclusively, is $100,000

The amount of all the sums advanced prior to the

3d of March, 1793, is 97.150

Excess of appropriations beyond advances . $2,850

It is nevertheless true, that not only have there
been frequent anticipations of the President's salary,
as appears more particularly in the statement at
foot, but, counting from the 30th of April, 1789, as
the commencement of his compensation, the sums
advanced for his use prior to the 3d of March, 1793,
the expiration of his first term of election, exceed
those actually due up to that period, by $1,108.34.

If, on the contrary, the construction were adopted
which dates his compensation on the 4th of March,
1789, there would have been a balance due to him
on the 4th of March, 1795, of 2,850 dollars.

But proceeding on the first supposition, the whole
question still turns upon the legality of the advances.
If it was legal to make him an advance, in anticipa-
tion of his salary, within any period of his election —
within one quarter, on account of a succeeding quar-
ter,— it was equally legal to do it within one year, on
account of a succeeding year; and within one term
of an election, on account of a succeeding term. The
only inquiry would be, in either case. Will the sum
advanced be within the bounds of the sums before
that time appropriated? It has been seen that the
sums appropriated for the first four years of service
exceeded those advanced prior to the commencement

148 Alexander Hamilton

of the second period of election by 2,850 dollars;
besides this, on the 28th of February, 1793, there
was a further appropriation of 25,000 dollars, so
that at the beginning of the second term the total
appropriations exceeded the total disbursements by
27,850 dollars.

Thus has it been shown that the advances for the
use of the President have been governed by a rule of
construction which has obtained in analogous cases,
or, more truly, which has regulated the general
course of disbursements from the Treasury — a rule
which, I trust, has been demonstrated to be con-
sonant with the Constitution and the laws.

It is requisite to inquire a little further, whether
there has been any improper use or rather abuse of
the discretion which is contended for ; for here there
is likewise an unquestionable responsibility. It is
seen that the advances have at no time equalled one
quarter's salary.

I ask. Was it unreasonable or unfit, if constitu-
tional and legal, to afford the President of the
United States an accommodation of this extent?

I pledge my veracity that I have always under-
stood, and to this moment I have good reason to be
satisfied, that the expenses of the President — those
of his household and others incident to his official
situation — have fully equalled, if not on some occa-
sions exceeded, the allowance made to him by the
United States. Under this conviction especially,
how could the head of a department hesitate by so
small an accommodation as the advance of less than
a quarter's salary, to enable the President of the

Explanation 149

United States to meet his expenses as they accrued,
without being obHged to encroach upon his own
private resources, or to resort to the expedient of
borrowing, to defray expenses imposed upon him by
pubHc situation ? I knew that no possible risk could
attend the advance, little considerable as it was.
The estate of the President was answerable in case
of death or other premature vacancy for the indem-
nification of the government.

Reasons of a peculiar kind forbade hesitation.
The scale of expense was such as to render the in-
come even of what is deemed a large landed property
in this country, a slender auxiliary; without an
advance from the Treasury, it was not impossible
borrowing might be necessary. Was it just to com-
pel the President to resort to that expedient, for a
purpose in fact public, at his private expense? Was
it for the dignity of the nation that he should have
been exposed to a necessity, an embarrassment of
this sort?

My judgment and feelings answered both these
questions in the negative. I entertained no doubt
of the constitutionality and legality of the advance,
and I thought the making of it due to the situation,
due to propriety, due to every public consideration
connected with the subject. I can never regret it.

How far the President was privy to the course of
advances I cannot say; but it is certain that they
have been all made to his private secretaries upon a
general arrangement, and not by special directions
from him. And I think it proper to add, that very
early in the day, and probably before any was made,

150 Alexander Hamilton

on an application to Mr. Lear for a sum which would
constitute an advance, he qualified it by this observa-
tion : *' If in your opinion it can be done with legality
and perfect propriety." I answered that I had no
doubt of either. I shall not attempt to assume any
greater responsibility in this transaction than be-
longs to me; but I have been accustomed to think
that the responsibility for the due and regular dis-
bursement of moneys from the Treasury lies exclu-
sively with the officers of the department, and that,
except in a very palpable and glaring case, the
charge of blamable participation could not fall on
any other person.

As between the officers of the Treasury, I take the
responsibility to stand thus. The Secretary and
Comptroller, in granting warrants upon the Treasury,
are both answerable for their legality. In this re-
spect, the Comptroller is a check upon the Secretary.
With regard to the expediency of an advance, in my
opinion, the right of judging is exclusively with the
head of the department. The Comptroller has no
voice in this matter. So far, therefore, as concerns
legality in the issues of money while I was in the
department, the Comptroller must answer with me;
so far as a question of expediency or the due exercise
of discretion may be involved, I am solely answer-
able. And uniformly was the matter so understood
between successive comptrollers and myself. Also it
is essential to the due administration of the depart-
ment, that it should have been so understood.

I have stated my reasons for considering the ad-
vances made, for the use of the President, con-

Explanation 1 5 1

stitutional, legal, and proper. But I pretend not to
infallibility ; 't is possible I may have erred ; but to
convert error into guilt, it must be supposed to have
been wilful. To suppose it wilful, it is necessary to
trace it to some interested or sinister motive. If
any appear, let it be pointed out. It is not common
for men to commit crimes without some adequate
inducement.

What criminal inducement would have probably
influenced the rule of construction as to advances
which has been stated to have been adopted and
acted upon at the Treasury ? What criminal induce-
ment particularly could have led to the application
of this rule to the President's compensation, in so
restricted a form as never to equal one quarter's
salary? Who in his senses will believe that the
President would consciously have hazarded the im-
putation of violating the Constitution, the laws, and
his oath of oflice, by imposing on the officers of the
Treasury the necessity of making him so paltry an
advance, falsely and ridiculously called a donation?
Who will believe that those officers would have con-
sented to expose themselves to the same imputation,
by compliance, when they knew that the evidence of
their guilt must regularly be communicated in each
succeeding session, to both houses of Congress, and
to the public at large? To believe either, is to be-
lieve all the parties concerned foolish, as well as
profligate in the extreme, destitute equally of intel-
lect as of principle.

To an observation made by Mr. Wolcott in the
communication from the Treasury, it has been

152 Alexander Hamilton

answered, that there was no merit in the disclosure,
because the number of agents and the forms of the
Treasury rendered it unavoidable. The fact is so —
but the force of the observation turns upon the
egregious folly of intentionally committing the
crimes imputed; when it was certain, beforehand,
that the means of detection must be furnished, and
without delay, by the Treasury itself.

It is certain, that there never has been the least
attempt at mystery or concealment. The docu-
ments reported by the Treasury to both houses of
Congress, carried in their face the prominent evidence
of what was done. Frequent and indiscriminate per-
sonal suggestions regarded the principle of action.
It is evident that it must have been understood and
acquiesced in by all the members of the two houses
of Congress.

Hard would be the condition of public officers if
even a misconstruction of constitutional and legal
provisions, attended with no symptom of criminal
motive, carrying the proof of innocence in the open-
ness and publicity of conduct, could justly expose
them to the odious charges which on this occasion
are preferred. Harder still would be their condition
if, in the management of the great and complicated
business of a nation, the fact of misconstruction,
which is to constitute their guilt, is to be decided by
the narrow and rigid rules of a criticism no less pe-
dantic than malevolent. Pre-eminently hard in such
circumstances was the lot of the man who, called to
the head of the most arduous department in the
public administration in a new government, without

Washington's Speech 153

the guidance of antecedent practice and precedent,
had to trace out his own path, and to adjust for
himself the import and bearings of deHcate and im-
portant provisions in the Constitution and in the
laws.

Reposing myself on a consciousness which, in no
possible situation, can fail to prove an invulnerable
shield to my tranquillity, I leave to a candid public
to pronounce the sentence which is due to an at-
tempt, on such a foundation, to erect against the
President of the United States, my successor in
office, and myself, the heinous charges of violation
of the Constitution, violation of the laws, exaction of
arbitrary will on the one side, abject submission on
the other, misapplication of the public money, and, to
complete the newspaper group, intentional perjury.

A. Hamilton.

WASHINGTON'S SPEECH TO CONGRESS ^

December 8, 1795.

I trust I do not deceive myself while I indulge the
persuasion, that I have never met you at any period,
when more than at the present the situation of our
public affairs has afforded just cause for mutual con-
gratulation, and for inviting you to join with me
in profound gratitude to the Author of all Good for
the numerous and distinguished signal blessings we
enjoy.

The termination of the long, expensive, and dis-
tressing war, in which we have been engaged with

I Writings of Washington, xii., 56. This draft by Hamilton also was
adopted verbatim.

154 Alexander Hamilton

certain Indians northwest of the Ohio, is placed in
the option of the United States by a treaty which
the commander of our army has provisionally con-
cluded with twelve of the most powerful of the
hostile tribes in that region. In the adjustment of
these terms, the satisfaction of the Indians was
deemed an object worthy no less of the policy than
of the liberality of the United States, as the neces-
sary basis of permanent tranquillity. This object,
it is believed, has been fully attained. The articles
agreed upon will be immediately laid before the
Senate for their advice and consent.

The Creek and Cherokee Indians, who alone of the
Southern tribes had annoyed our frontier, have lately
confirmed their pre-existing treaties with us, and
have given unequivocal evidence of a sincere dis-
position to carry them into effect by the surrender
of the prisoners and property they had taken. But
we have to lament that the fair prospect in this
quarter has been momentarily clouded by wanton
murders, which some citizens of Georgia have per-
petrated on hunting parties of the Creeks, which
have again involved that frontier in disquietude and
danger, or which will be productive of further ex-
pense, and is likely to occasion more effusion of
blood. Measures are in train to obviate or mitigate
the consequences, and with the reliance of being able
at least to prevent general hostility.

A letter from the Emperor of Morocco announces
to me the renewal of our treaty, and consequently
the restoration of peace, with that power. But the
instrument for this purpose, which was to pass

Washington's Speech 155

through the hands of our minister resident at Lis-
bon, who was temporarily absent on business of im-
portance, is not yet received. It is with pecuHar
satisfaction I can add to this intelHgence, that an
agent, deputed on our part to Algiers, communicates
that the preliminaries of a treaty with the regency
of that country had been settled, and that he had
no doubt of completing the business of his mission,
comprehending the redemption of our unfortunate
fellow-citizens from a grievous captivity.

The last advices from our envoy to the court of
Madrid give, moreover, the pleasing information that
he had received positive assurances of a speedy and
satisfactory conclusion of his negotiation. While
the event, depending on unadjusted particulars, can-
not be regarded as ascertained, it is agreeable to
cherish the expectation of an issue, which, securing
amicably very essential interests of the United
States, will, at the same time, establish the founda-
tion of durable harmony with a power whose friend-
ship we have so uniformly and so sincerely endeavored
to cultivate.

Though not before officially disclosed to the
House of Representatives, you are all apprised that
a treaty of amity, commerce, and navigation has
been negotiated with Great Britain, and that the
Senate, by the voice of two thirds, have advised and
consented to its ratification, upon a condition which
excepts part of one article. Agreeably to this advice
and consent, and to the best judgment I was able to
form of the public interest, after full and mature
deliberation, I have added my sanction. The result

156 Alexander Hamilton

on the part of His Britannic Majesty is unknown.
When received, the subject will, without delay, be
placed before Congress.

This interesting summary of affairs, with regard
to the foreign powers between whom and the United
States controversies have subsisted, and with regard
also to those of our Indian neighbors, with whom we
have been in a state of enmity or misunderstanding,
opens a wide field for consoling and gratifying re-
flections. If, by prudence and moderation on every
side, the extinguishment of all the causes of external
discord, which have heretofore menaced our tran-
quillity, on terms consistent with our national rights
and honor, shall be the happy result, how firm and
how precious a foundation will have been laid for
establishing, accelerating, and maturing the prosper-
ity of our country!

Contemplating the situation of the United States
in their internal as well as external relations, we find
equal cause for contentment and satisfaction, while
the greater part of the nations of Europe, with their
American dependencies, have been, and several of
them continue to be, involved in a contest unusually
bloody, exhausting, and calamitous; in which the
ordinary evils of foreign war are aggravated by do-
mestic convulsion, riot, and insurrection; in which
many of the arts most useful to society are exposed
to decay or exile; and in which scarcity of subsist-
ence embitters other sufferings, while even the antici-
pations of the blessings of peace and repose are
alloyed by the sense of heavy and accumulating bur-
thens, which press upon all the departments of in-

Washington's Speech 157

dustry, and threaten to clog the future springs of
government; — our favored country, happy in a
striking contrast, enjoys universal peace — a peace
the more satisfactory because preserved at the ex-
pense of no duty. Faithful to ourselves we have not
been unmindful of any obligation to others. Our agri-
culture, our commerce, our manufactures, prosper
beyond former examples (the occasional depreda-
tions upon our trade, however detrimental to indi-
viduals, being greatly overbalanced by the aggregate
benefits derived to it from a neutral position). Our
population advances with a celerity which exceeds
the most sanguine calculations, augmenting fast
our strength and resources, and guaranteeing more
and more our national security. Every part of the
Union gives indications of rapid and various im-
provement. With burthens so light as scarcely to
be perceived, with resources more than adequate to
our present exigencies, with a mild Constitution and
wholesome laws, is it too much to say that our
country affords a spectacle of national happiness
never surpassed, if ever before equalled, in the annals
of human affairs ?

Placed by Providence in a situation so auspicious,
motives the most sacred and commanding admonish
us, with sincere gratitude to Heaven and pure love
of our country, to unite our efforts to preserve, pro-
long, and improve the immense advantages of our
condition. To co-operate with you in this most in-
teresting work is the dearest wish of my heart.

Fellow-citizens : — Amongst the objects which will
claim your attention in the course of the session, a

15S Alexander Hamilton

review of our military establishment will not be the
least important. It is called for by the events which
have changed, and are likely still further to change,
the relative situation of our interior frontier. In
this review you will no doubt allow due weight to
the consideration, that the questions between us ;
and certain foreign powers are not yet finally ad- j
justed, that the war in Europe is not yet termin- ;
ated, and that the evacuation, of Western posts,
when it shall happen, will demand a provision for
garrisoning and securing them. You will consider
this subject with a comprehensiveness equal to the
extent and variety of its relations. The Secretary
at War will be directed to lay before Congress the
present state of the Department of War.

With the review of our army is naturally connected
that of our militia establishment. It will merit in-
quiry what imperfections, in the existing plan, ex-
perience may have unfolded; what improvements
will comport with the progress of public opinion. The
subject is of so much magnitude, in my estimation,
as to beget a constant solicitude that the considera-
tion of it will be renewed, till the greatest attainable
degree of perfection is accomplished. Time, while it
may furnish others, is wearing away some advan-
tages for forwarding the object. None better de-
serves the persevering attention of our public
councils.

In contemplating the actual condition of our West-
em borders, the pleasure it is calculated to afford
ought not to cause us to lose sight of a truth, to the
confirmation of which every day's experience con-

Washington's Speech 159

tributes, viz. : That the provisions heretofore made
are inadequate to protect the Indians from the
violences of the irregular and lawless part of the
frontier inhabitants; and that, without some more
effectual plan for restraining the murders of those
people, by bringing the murderers to condign pun-
ishment, all the exertions of the government to pre-
vent or repress the outrages of the Indians, and to
preserve peace with them, must prove fruitless — all
our present agreeable prospects fugitive and illusory.
The frequent destruction of innocent women and
children, chiefly the victims of retaliation, must con-
tinue to shock humanity, while an expense truly
enormous will drain the treasure of the Union.

To enforce the observance of justice upon the In-
dians, it is indispensable there should be competent
means of rendering justice to them. If to these
means could be added a provision to facilitate the
supply of the articles they want on reasonable terms
(a measure the mention of which I the more readily
repeat, as in all the conferences with them they urge
it with solicitude), I should not hesitate to entertain
a strong hope of a permanent good understanding
with them. It is agreeable to add that even the
probability of their civilization, by perseverance in a
proper plan, has not been diminished by the experi-
ments thus far made.

Gentlemen of the House of Representatives:

The state of the revenue in its several relations,
with the sums which have been borrowed and reim-
bursed, pursuant to different acts of Congress, will be

i6o Alexander Hamilton

submitted by the proper officer — together with an
estimate of the appropriations necessary to be made
for the current service of the ensuing year. Reports
from the late and present Director of the Mint
(which I shall also cause to be laid before you) will
show the situation and progress of that institution,
and the necessity of some further legislative pro-
visions for carrying the business of it more completely
into execution, and for checking abuses which appear
to be arising in particular quarters.

Whether measures may not be advisable to rein-
force the provision for the redemption of the public
debt, will not fail, I am sure, to engage your atten-
tion. In this examination, the question will natu-
rally occur, whether the present be not a favorable
juncture for the disposal of the vacant lands of the
United States northwest of the Ohio. Congress have
demonstrated the sense to be, and it were superfluous
to repeat more, that whatever will tend to accelerate
the honorable extinguishment of our public debt,
will accord as much with the true interests of our
country as with the general sense of our constituents.

Gentlemen: — The progress in providing materials
for the frigates, and in building them, and the state
of the fortifications of our harbors, the measures
which have been pursued for obtaining proper sites
for arsenals, and for furnishing our magazines with
military stores, and the steps which have been taken
in execution of the law for opening a trade with the
Indians, will also be presented for the information of
Congress.

Message i6i

MESSAGE FOR WASHINGTON TO CONGRESS, IN REPLY
TO A CALL FOR PAPERS RELATING TO THE TREATY
WITH GREAT BRITAIN '

Draft by Hamilton.

March 20, 1796.

I have received your resolution of the inst.,

and have considered it with the attention always
due to a request of the House of Representatives.
I feel a consciousness (not contradicted I trust by
any part of my conduct) of a sincere disposition to
respect the rights, privileges, and authorities of Con-
gress, collectively and in its separate branches — to
pay just deference to their opinions and wishes — to
avoid intrusion on their province — to communicate
freely information pertinent to the subjects of their
deliberation. But this disposition, keeping steadily
in view the public good, must likewise be limited and
directed by the duty incumbent upon us all, of pre-
serving inviolate the constitutional boundary be-
tween the several departments of the government ; a
duty enjoined by the very nature of a Constitution
which defines the powers delegated, and distributes
them among different depositories; enforced by the
solemn sanction of an oath ; and only to be fulfilled
by a regard no less scrupulous for the rights of the
Executive than for those of every other department.

When I communicated to the House of Represent-
atives the treaty lately made with Great Britain, I
did not transmit the papers respecting its negotia-
tion, for reasons which appeared to me decisive.

^ Writings of Washington, xii., 112.
VOL. vin.— II.

1 62 Alexander Hamilton

It is contrary to the general practice of govern-
ments to promulge the intermediate transactions of
a foreign negotiation, without weighty and special
reasons. The motives for great delicacy and reserve
on this point are powerful. There may be situations
of a country in which particular occurrences of a
negotiation, though conducted with the best views to
its interest, and even to a satisfactory issue, if im-
mediately disclosed, might tend to embarrassment
and mischief in the interior affairs of that country.
Confidential discussions and overtures are insepar-
able from the nature of certain negotiations, and fre-
quently occur in others. Essays are occasionally
made by one party to discover the views of another
in reference to collateral objects ; motives are some-
times assigned for what is yielded by one party to
another which, if made public, might kindle the re-
sentment or jealousy of other powers, or might raise
in them pretensions not expedient to be gratified.
Hence it is a rule of mutual convenience and security
among nations, that neither shall, without adequate
cause and proper reserve, promulge the details of
a negotiation between them; otherwise, one party
might be injured by the disclosures of the other, and
sometimes without being aware of the injury likely
to be done.

Consequently, the general neglect of this rule in
the practice of a government, would naturally tend
to destroy the confidence in its prudence and deli-
cacy and that freedom of communication with it,
which are so important in the intercourses between
nation and nation, toward the accommodation of

Message 163

mutual differences and the adjustment of mutual
interests.

Neither would it be likely to promote the advan-
tage of a nation, that the agents of a foreign govern-
ment with which it was at any time in treaty, should
act under the apprehension that every expression,
every step of theirs, would presently be exposed, by
the promulgation of the other party, to the criticism
of their political adversaries at home. The disposi-
tion to a liberal, and, perhaps, for that very reason,
a wise policy in them, might be checked by the re-
flection, that it might afterward appear from the
disclosures on the other side, that they had not made
as good bargains as they might have made. And
while they might be stimulated by this to extraor-
dinary effort and perseverance, maxims of greater
secrecy and reserve in their cabinet would leave their
competitors in the negotiation without the same
motive to exertion. These having nothing to fear
from the indiscretion of the opposite government,
would only have to manage with caution their com-
munications to their own. The consequence of such
a state of things would naturally be an increase of
obstacles to the favorable close of a negotiation, and
the probability of worse bargains for the nation
in the habit of giving indiscreet publicity to its
proceedings.

The agents of such a nation themselves would
have strong inducements to extreme reserve in their
communications with their own government, lest
parts of their conduct might subject them in other
quarters to unfriendly and uncandid constructions,

164 Alexander Hamilton

which might so narrow the information they gave,
as scarcely to afford sufficient light, with regard
either to the fitness of their own course of proceed-
ing, or the true state and prospects of the negotia-
tion with which they were charged.

And thus, in different ways, the channels of
information to a government might be materially
obstructed by the impolitic practice of too free
disclosure, in regard to its foreign negotiations.

Moreover, it is not uncommon for the instructions
to negotiating agents, especially where differences
are to be settled, to contain observations on the
views and motives of the other party, which after
an amicable termination of the business it would
be contrary to decorum, unfriendly and offensive to
make public. Such instructions also frequently
manifest views which, if disclosed, might renew
sources of jealousy and ill-will which a treaty had
extinguished, might exhibit eventual plans of pro-
ceeding which had better remain unknown for future
emergencies, and might even furnish occasion for
suspicion, and pretext for discontent, to other
powers. And in general, where more had been ob-
tained by a treaty than the ultimata prescribed to
the negotiator, it would be inexpedient to publish
those ultimata; since, among other ill effects, the
publication of them might prejudice the interest of
the country in future negotiations with the same or
with different powers.

These reasons explain the grounds of a prevailing
rule of conduct among prudent governments, namely,
not to promulge without weighty cause, nor without

Message 165

due reserves, the particulars of a foreign negotiation.
It so happens indeed that many of them have no
immediate appHcation to the case of the present
treaty. And it would be unadvisable to discriminate
here between such as may and such as may not so
apply. But it would be very extraordinary, situated
as the United States were in relation to Great Brit-
ain at the commencement of the negotiation, if some
of them did not operate against a full disclosure of
the papers in which it is recorded.

Connected with these general reasons against the
transmission of the papers with the treaty, it was
proper to consider if there were any special reasons,
which recommended in the particular case a depart-
ure from the rule, and especially whether there was
any purpose to which the House of Representatives
is constitutionally competent which might be eluci-
dated by those papers.

This involved a consideration of the nature of the
constitutional agency of that house, in regard to
treaties.

The Constitution of the United States empowers ^^.^
the President, with the advice and consent of the
Senate, two thirds concurring, to make treaties. It
nowhere professes to authorize the House of Repre-
sentatives or any other branch of the government to
partake with the President and Senate in the making
of treaties. The whole power of making treaties is
therefore by the Constitution vested in the President
and Senate.

To make a treaty, as applied to nations, is to con-
clude a contract between them obligatory on their

1 66 Alexander Hamilton

faith: but that cannot be an obligatory contract, to
the validity and obligation of which the assent of an-
other power in the state is constitutionally necessary.

Again, the Constitution declares that a treaty
made under the authority of the United States shall
be a "supreme law of the land," — let it be said "a
law." A law is an obligatory rule of action pre-
scribed by the competent authority, but that cannot
be an obligatory rule of action or a law, to the valid-
ity and obligation of which the assent of another
power in the state is constitutionally necessary.

Hence a discretionary right in the House of Repre-
sentatives to assent or not to a treaty, or, what is
equivalent, to execute it or not, would negative
these two important provisions of our Constitution
— ist, that the President and Senate shall have power
to make treaties; 2dly, that a treaty made by them
shall be a law; and in the room of them would es-
tablish this provision, "that the power of making
treaties resides in the President, Senate, and House
of Representatives." For, whatever coloring may
be given, a right of discretionary assent to a con-
tract is a right to participate in the making of it.

Is there any thing in the Constitution which by
necessary implication changes the force of the ex-
press terms that regulate the deposit of the power to
make treaties?

If there is, it must be found in those clauses which
regulate the deposit of the legislative power. Here
two questions arise:

I St. Can the power of treaty reach and embrace
objects upon which the legislative power is authorized

Message 167

to act, as the regulation of commerce, the defining of
piracy, etc. ; or are these objects virtually excepted
out of the operation of that power?

2dly. If it can reach and embrace those objects, is
there any principle which as to them gives to Con-
gress, or, more properly, the House of Represent-
atives, a discretionary right of assent or dissent?

The affirmative of the first question is supported
by these considerations:

1 . The words which establish the power of treaty are
manifestly broad enough to comprehend all treaties.

2. It is a reasonable presumption that they were
meant to extend to all treaties usual among nations,
and so to be commensurate with the variety of
exigencies and objects of intercourse which occur
between nation and nation; in other words, that
they were meant to enable the organ of the power
to manage with efficacy the external affairs of the
country in all cases in which they must depend upon
compact with another nation.

3. The treaties usual among nations are princi-
pally those of peace, alliance, and commerce. It is
the office of treaties of peace to establish the cessa-
tion of hostilities and the conditions of it, including
frequently indemnifications, sometimes pecuniary
ones. It is the office of treaties of alliance to estab-
lish cases in which nations shall succor each other in
war, stipulating a union of forces, the furnishing of
troops, ships of war, pecuniary and other aids. It is
the office of treaties of commerce to establish rules
and conditions according to which nations shall trade
with each other, regulating as far as they go the

1 68 Alexander Hamilton

external commerce of the nations in treaty. Whence
it is evident that treaties naturally bear in different
ways upon many of the most important objects upon
which the legislative power is authorized to act; as
the appropriation of money, the raising of armies,
the equipment of fleets, the declaring of war, the
regulation of trade. But,

4. This is no objection to the power of treaty
having a capacity to embrace those objects: (First.)
Because that latitude is essential to the great ends
for which the power is instituted. (Second.) Be-
cause, unless the power of treaty can embrace ob-
jects upon which the legislative power may also
act, it is essentially nugatory, often inadequate to
mere treaties of peace, always inadequate to treaties
of alliance or commerce. (Third.) Because it is the
office of the legislative power to establish separate
rules of action for the nation of which it is the organ,
its arm being too short to reach a single case in which
a common obligatory rule of action for two nations
is to be established. (Fourth.) Because, inasmuch
as a common rule of action for independent nations
can only be established by compact, it necessarily is
of the office of the power of treaty to effect its estab-
lishment. (Fifth.) Because the power of legislation
being unable to effect what the power of treaty must
effect, it is unreasonable to suppose that the former
was intended to exclude the action of the latter.
(Sixth.) Because, on the other hand, there is no
incongruity in the supposition that the power of
treaty in establishing a joint rule of action with
another nation may act upon the same subject which

Message 169

the legislative power may act upon in establishing a
separate rule of action for one nation. (Seventh.)
Because it is a common case for the different powers
of government to act upon the same subject within
different spheres and in different modes. Thus the
legislative power lays and provides for the collection
of a particular tax ; the executive power collects the
tax and brings it into the treasury. So the treaty
power may stipulate a pecuniary indemnification
for an injury, and the legislative power may execute
the stipulation by providing and designating the
fund out of which the indemnification shall be made.
As in the first instance the executive power is aux-
iliary to the legislative, so in the last the legislative
power is auxiliary to the treaty powers. (Eighth.)
Because this document leads to no collision of pow-
ers, inasmuch as the stipulations of a treaty may
reasonably be considered as restraints upon the
legislative discretion. Those stipulations operate by
pledging the faith of a nation and restricting its will
by the force of moral obligation, and it is a funda-
mental principle of social right that the will of a na-
tion, as well as that of an individual, may be bound
by the moral obligation of a contract. (Ninth.)
Because the organ of the power of treaty is as truly
the organ of the will of a nation as that of its legisla-
tive power; and there is no incongruity in the sup-
position that the will of a nation acting through one
organ may be bound by the pledge of its faith through
another organ. From these different views of the
subject it results that the position — that the power
of legislation acting in one sphere, and the power of

170 Alexander Hamilton

treaty acting in another sphere, may embrace in
their action the same objects — involves no inter-
ference of constitutional powers; and, of course,
that the latter may reach and comprehend objects
which the former is authorized to act upon ; which it
is necessary to suppose it does do, since the contrary
supposition would essentially destroy the power of
treaty : whereas the stipulations of treaties being only
particular exceptions to the discretion of the legisla-
tive power, this power will always still have a wide
field of action beyond and out of the exceptions.

The latitude of the power of treaty granted by ana-
logous terms in the articles of our late confederation,
as practised upon for years in treaties with several
foreign powers, and acquiesced in by the govern-
ment and citizens of these States, is an unequivocal
comment upon the meaning of the provision of our
present Constitution, and a conclusive evidence of
the sense in which it was understood by those who
planned and by those who adopted that Constitu-
tion— supporting fully the construction of the power
here advocated. That latitude could derive no aid
from the circumstance of all the powers of the con-
federation being vested in one body, for that body
had very little legislative power, and none in several
important particulars which were actually em-
braced by our treaties. The examples of practice
under our present government, without the least
question of their propriety, is a further corrobora-
tion of the intended and accepted sense of the con-
stitutional instrument, agreeing with the foregoing
construction.

Message 1 7 1

The negative of the second question above stated
is supported by these considerations.

First. — A discretionary right of assent in the House
of Representatives (as before shown) would contra-
dict the two important provisions of the Constitu-
tion; that the President with the Senate shall have
power to make treaties; that the treaties so made
shall be laws.

Secondly. — It supposes the House of Representa-
tives at liberty to contravene the faith of the nation
engaged in a treaty made by the declared constitu-
tional agents of the nation for that purpose, and thus
implies the contradiction that a nation may right-
fully pledge its faith through one organ, and without
any change of circumstances to dissolve the obliga-
tion, may revoke the pledge through another organ.

Thirdly. — The obvious import of the terms which
grant the power of treaty can only be controlled, if
at all, by some manifest necessary implication in
favor of the discretionary right which has been men-
tioned. But it has been seen that no such implica-
tion can be derived from the mere grant of certain
powers to the House of Representatives in common
with the other branch of the legislative body. As
there is a rational construction which renders the
due exercise of these powers in the cases to which
they are competent, compatible with the operation
of the power of treaty, in all the necessary latitude,
excluding the discretionary co-operation of the House
of Representatives, that construction is to be pre-
ferred. It is far more natural to consider the exer-
cise of those powers as liable to the exceptions which

172 Alexander Hamilton

the power of treaty granted to the President and
Senate may make, than to infer from them a right
in the House to share in this power in opposition to
terms of the grant, and without a single expression
in the Constitution to designate the right. It is im-
probable that the Constitution intended to vest in
the House of Representatives so extensive a control
over treaties without a single phrase that would look
directly to the object. It is the more improbable,
because the Senate being, in the first instance, a
party to treaties, the right of discretionary co-opera-
tion in the House of Representatives, in virtue of
its legislative character, would, in fact, terminate in
itself, though but a part of the legislative body —
which suggests this question, Can the House of
Representatives have any right in virtue of its
general legislative character, which is not effectually
participated by the Senate ?

Fourthly. — The claim of such a right on the ground
that the legislative power is essentially deliberative,
that whenever its agency is in question it has a right
to act or not, and that, consequently, when provision
by law is requisite to execute a treaty there is liberty
to refuse it, cannot be acceded to without admitting
in the legislative body, and in each part of it an abso-
lute discretion uncontrollable by any constitutional
injunctions, limits, or restrictions, thereby overturn-
ing the fabric of a fixed and definite Constitution,
and erecting upon its ruins a legislative omnipotence.

It would, for example, give to Congress a discre-
tion to allow or not a fixed compensation to the
judges, though the Constitution expressly enjoins

Message 1 73

"that they shall at stated times receive for their
services a compensation, which shall not be dimin-
ished during their continuance in office ' ' ; and would
sacrifice this solemn and peremptory command of
the Constitution to the opinion of Congress respecting
a more essential application of the public money.
Can this be true? Can any thing but absolute ina-
bility excuse a compliance with this injunction, and
does not the Constitution presuppose a moral im-
possibility of such inability ? If there be a legal dis-
cretion in any case to contravene this injunction,
what limit is there to the legal discretion of the
legislative body? What injunction, what restriction
of the Constitution may they not supersede ? If the
Constitution cannDt direct the exercise of their au-
thority in particular cases, how can it limit it in any?
What becomes of the appeal to our courts on the
constitutionality of a legislative act? What be-
comes of the power they solemnly assert to test such
an act by the constitutional commission, and to pro-
nounce it operative or null, according to its con-
formity with or repugnance to that commission?
What, in fine, becomes of the Constitution itself?

This inquiry suggests a truth fundamental to the
principles of our government, and all important to
the security of the people of the United States —
namely, that the legislative body is not deliberative
in all cases; that it is only deliberative and discre-
tionary where the Constitution and the laws lay it
under no command nor prohibition ; that where they
command, it can only execute ; where they prohibit,
it cannot act. If the thing be commanded and the

174 Alexander Hamilton

means of execution are undefined, it may then de-
liberate on the choice of the means, but it is obliged
to devise some means. It is true that the Constitu-
tion provides no method of compelling the legislative
body to act, but it is not the less under a constitu-
tional, legal, and moral obligation to act, where ac-
tion is prescribed, and in conformity with the rule of
action prescribed.

In asserting the authority of laws as well as of
the Constitution to direct and restrain the legislative
action, the position is to be understood with this
difference. The Constitution obliges always — the
laws till they are annulled or repealed by the proper
authority; but till then they oblige the legislative
body as well as individuals, and all their antecedent
effects are valid and binding. And the abrogation
or repeal of a law must be by an act of the regular
organ of the national will for that purpose, in the
forms of the Constitution, — not by a mere refusal to
give effect to its injunctions and requisitions; es-
pecially by a part of the legislative body. A legal
discretion to refuse the execution of a pre-existing
law is virtually a power to repeal it, and to attribute
this discretion to a part of the legislative body is to
attribute to it the whole, instead of a part, of the
legislative power in the given case. When towards
the execution of an antecedent law, further legisla-
tive provision is necessary, the past effects of the
law are obligatory, and a positive repeal or suspen-
sion by the whole Legislature is requisite to arrest
its future operation. The idea is essential in a gov-
ernment Hke ours, that there is no body of men or

Message 1 75

individuals above the law; not even the legislative
body, till by an act of legislation they have annulled
the law.

The argument from the principle of an essentially
deliberative faculty in the legislative body is the less
admissible, because it would result from it that the
nation could never be conclusively bound by a treaty.
Why should the inherent discretion of a future Legis-
lature be more bound by the assent of a preceding
one, than this was by a pledge of the public faith
through the President and Senate? Even the Sen-
ate itself, after having assented to a treaty by two
thirds in one capacity, might in another, by a bare
majority, refuse to execute; a contradiction not to
be vindicated by any just theory.

Hence it follows that the House of Representa-
tives have no moral power to refuse the execution of
a treaty which is not contrary to the Constitution,
because it pledges the public faith; and have no
legal power to refuse its execution, because it is a
law, until at least it ceases to be a law by a regular
act of revocation of the competent authority.

The ingredient peculiar to our Constitution in that
provision which declares that treaties are laws, is of
no inconsiderable weight in the question. It is one
thing, whether a treaty pledging the faith of the na-
I tion shall, by force of moral duty, oblige the legisla-
tive will to carry it into effect; another, whether it
shall be of itself a law. The last is the case in our
Constitution, which, by a fundamental decree, gives
the character of a law to every treaty made under the
authority which it designates. Treaties, therefore,

176 Alexander Hamilton

in our government, of themselves, and without any
additional sanction, have full legal perfection as
laws.

Questions may be made as to the cases in which,
and the authority by which, under our Constitution,
a treaty consonant with it may be pronounced to
have lost or may be divested of its obligatory force ;
a point not necessary now to be discussed. But ad-
mitting that authority to reside in the legislative
body, still its exercise must be by an act of Congress
declaring the fact and the consequence, or declaring
war against the power with whom the treaty is.
There is perceived to be nothing in our Constitution,
no rule of constitutional law to authorize one branch
alone, or the House of Representatives in particular,
to pronounce the existence of such cases, or from the
beginning to refuse compliance with such a treaty,
without any new events to change the original obli-
gation. A right in the whole legislative body (in our
Constitution the two houses of Congress), by a col-
lective act, to pronounce the non-operation or nullity
of a treaty, satisfies every claim in favor of the legis-
lative power, and gives to it all the weight and
efficacy which is reconcilable with the due operation
of the treaty power.

How discordant might be the results of a doctrine
that the House of Representatives may at discretion
execute or not a constitutional treaty! What con-
fusion, if our courts of justice should recognize and
enforce as laws treaties, the obligation of which was
denied by the House of Representatives, and that on a
principle of inherent discretion, which no decision of

Message 177

the courts could guide ! We might see our commercial
and fiscal systems disorganized by the breaches made
in antecedent laws by posterior treaties, through the
want of some collateral provisions requisite to give
due effect to the principle of the new rule. Can that
doctrine be true which may present a treaty oper-
ating as a law upon all the citizens of a country, and
yet legally disregarded by a portion of the legislative
body?

The sound conclusion appears to be, that when
a treaty contains nothing but what the Constitution
permits, it is conclusive upon all, and all are bound
to give it effect. When it contains more than the
Constitution permits, it is void either in the whole,
or as to so much as it improperly contains. While I
can discover no sufficient foundation in the Constitu-
tion for the claim of a discretionary right in the
House of Representatives to participate in giving
validity to treaties, I am confirmed in the contrary
inference by the knowledge I have that the ex-
pediency of this participation was considered by the
convention which planned the Constitution, and was
by them overruled.

The greatness of the power of treaty under this
construction is no objection to its truth. It is doubt-
less a great power, and necessarily so, else it could
not answer those purposes of national security and
interest in the external relations of a country for
which it is designed. Nor does the manner in which
it is granted in our Constitution furnish any argu-
ment against the magnitude which is ascribed to it,
but the contrary. A treaty cannot be made without

VOL. Via. — 12.

178 Alexander Hamilton

the actual co-operation and mutual consent of the
Executive and two thirds of the Senate. This neces-
sity of positive co-operation of the Executive charges
him with a high responsibility, which cannot but
be one great security for the proper exercise of the
power. The proportion of the Senate requisite to
their valid consent to a treaty approaches so near
to unanimity, that it would always be very extra-
ordinary if it should be given to one really pernicious
or hurtful to the state. These great guards are
manifest indications of a great power being meant
to be deposited. So that the manner of its deposit
is an argument for its magnitude rather than an
argument against it, and an argument against the
intention to admit with a view to security the dis-
cretionary co-operation of the House of Repre-
sentatives rather than in favor of such a right
in them.

Two thirds of the two houses of Congress may
exercise their whole legislative power not only with-
out but against the consent of the Executive. It is
not evident on general principles that in this arrange-
ment there is a materially greater security against a
bad law than in the other against a bad treaty. The
frequent absolute necessity of secrecy not only in the
conduct of a foreign negotiation, but at certain con-
junctures, as to the very articles of a treaty, is a natu-
ral reason why a part, and that the least ntmierous
part, of the legislative body was united with the
Executive in the making of treaties in exclusion of
the other and the most numerous. But if the de-
posit of the power of treaty was less safe, and less

Message 1 79

well guarded than it is conceived to be, this would
not be a good argument against its being in fact ex-
clusively deposited as the terms of the Constitution,
which establish it, import it to be. It would only
be an argument for an amendment to the Constitu-
tion modifying the deposit of the power differently,
and superadding new guards.

If the House of Representatives, called upon to
act in aid of a treaty made by the President and
Senate, believe it to be unwarranted by the Con-
stitution which they are sworn to support, it will not
be denied that they may pause in the execution
until a decision on the point of constitutionality in
the Supreme Court of the United States shall have
settled the question.

But this is the only discretion of that house, as to
the obligation to carry a treaty made by the Presi-
dent and Senate into effect, in the existence of which
I can acquiesce as being within the intent of the
Constitution.

Hence there was no question, in my opinion, of the
competency of the House of Representatives, which
I could presuppose likely to arise, to which any of
the papers now requested could be deemed applic-
able ; nor does it yet appear that any such question
has arisen, upon which the request has been predi-
cated.

Were even the course of reasoning which I have
pursued less well founded than it appears to me to
be, the call for papers as a preliminary proceeding
of the house would still seem to be premature.

A question on the constitutionality of a treaty can

i8o Alexander Hamilton

manifestly only be decided by comparing the instru-
ment itself with the Constitution.

A question whether a treaty be consistent with or
adverse to the interests of the United States, must
likewise be decided by comparing the stipulations
which it actually contains with the situation of the
United States in their internal and external relations.

Nothing extrinsic to the treaty, or in the manner
of its negotiation, can make it constitutional or un-
constitutional, good or bad, salutary or pernicious.
The internal evidence it affords is the only proper
standard of its merits.

Whatever therefore be the nature of the duty, or
discretion of the House, as to the execution of the
treaty, it will find its rule of action in the treaty.

Even with reference to and animadversion on
the conduct of the agents who made the treaty, the
presumption of a criminal mismanagement of the
interests of the United States ought first, it is con-
ceived, to be deduced from the intrinsic nature of the
treaty, and ought to be pronounced to exist prior to
a further inquiry to ascertain the guilt and the guilty.
Whenever the House of Representatives, proceeding
upon any treaty, shall have taken the ground that
such a presumption exists, in order to such an in-
quiry, their request to the Executive to be caused to
be laid before them papers which may contain in-
formation on the subject, will rest on a foundation
that cannot fail to secure to it due efficacy.

But, under all the circumstances of the present re-
quest (circumstances which I forbear to particularize),
and in its present indefinite form, I adopt with re-

Farewell Address i8i

luctance and regret, but with entire conviction, the
opinion, that a just regard to the Constitution and
to the duty of my office forbids on my part a com-
pliance with that request.

FAREWELL ADDRESS '

ABSTRACT OF POINTS TO FORM AN ADDRESS '

1796.

L — The period of a new election approaching, it is
his duty to announce his intention to decline.

IL — He had hoped that long ere this it would have
been in his power, and particularly had nearly come
to a final resolution in the year 1792 to do it, but the
peculiar situation of affairs, and the advice of con-
fidential friends, dissuaded.

IIL — In acquiescing in a further election he still
hoped a year or two longer would have enabled him
to withdraw, but a continuance of causes has de-
layed till now, when the position of our country,
abroad and at home, justify him in pursuing his
inclination.

IV. — In doing it he has not been unmindful of his
relation as a dutiful citizen to his country, nor is now
influenced by the smallest diminution of zeal for its
interest or gratitude for its past kindness, but by a
belief that the step is compatible with both.

V. — The impressions under which he first accepted
were explained on the proper occasion.

* See note to next paper, "Washington's Farewell Address."

* This endorsement, together with the whole of this paper, is copied
from a draft in Hamilton's hand.

1 82 Alexander Hamilton

VI. — In the execution of it he has contributed the
best exertions of a very falHble judgment — antici-
pated his insufficiency — experienced his disquahfica-
tions for the difficult trust, and every day a stronger
sentiment from that cause to yield the place — ad-
vance into the decline of life — every day more sensi-
ble of weight of years, of the necessity of repose, of
the duty to seek retirement, etc.

VII. — It will be among the purest enjoyments
which can sweeten the remnant of his days, to par-
take in a private station, in the midst of his fellow-
citizens, the laws of a free government, the ultimate
object of his cares and wishes.

VIII. — As to rotation.

IX. — In contemplating the moment of retreat,
cannot forbear to express his deep acknowledgments
and debt of gratitude for the many honors conferred
on him — the steady confidence which, even amidst
discouraging scenes and efforts to poison its source,
has adhered to support him, and enabled him to be
useful — marking, if well placed, the virtue and wis-
dom of his countrymen. All the return he can now
make must be in the vows he will carry with him to
his retirement: ist, for a continuance of the Divine
beneficence to his country; 2d, for the perpetuity of
their union and brotherly affection — for a good ad-
ministration insured by a happy union of watchful-
ness and confidence; 3d, that happiness of people
under auspices of liberty may be complete; 4th,
that by a prudent use of the blessing they may
recommend to the affection, the praise, and the adop-
tion of every nation yet a stranger to it.

Farewell Address 183

X. — Perhaps here he ought to end. But an un-
conquerable solicitude for the happiness of his
country will not permit him to leave the scene with-
out availing himself of whatever confidence may re-
main in him, to strengthen some sentiments which
he believes to be essential to their happiness, and to
recommend some rules of conduct, the importance of
which his own experience has more than ever im-
pressed upon him.

XL — To consider the Union as the rock of their
salvation, presenting summarily these ideas:

1. The strength and greater security from external
danger.

2. Internal peace, and avoiding the necessity of estab-
lishments dangerous to liberty.

3. Avoids the effect of foreign intrigue.

4. Breaks the force of faction by rendering combina-
tions more difficult.

Fitness of the parts for each other by their very
discriminations:

1 . The North, by its capacity for maritime strength
and manufacture.

2. The agricultural South furnishing materials and
requiring those protections.

The Atlantic board to the western country by the
strong interest of peace, and

The Western, by the necessity of Atlantic mari-
time protection.

Cannot be secure of their great outlet otherwise —
cannot trust a foreign connection.

Solid interests invite to Union. Speculation of

1 84 Alexander Hamilton

difficulty of government ought not to be indulged,
nor momentary jealousies — lead to impatience.

Faction and individual ambition are the only ad-
visers of disunion.

Let confidence be cherished. Let the recent ex-
perience of the West be a lesson against impatience
and distrust.

XIL — Cherish the actual government. It is the
government of our own choice, free in its principles,
the guardian of our common rights, the patron of our
common interests, and containing within itself a pro-
vision for its own amendment.

But let that provision be cautiously used — not
abused ; changing only in any material points as ex-
perience shall direct; neither indulging speculations
of too much or too little force in the system ; and re-
membering always the extent of our country.

Time and habit of great consequence to every gov-
ernment of whatever structure.

Discourage the spirit of faction, the bane of free
government; and particularly avoid founding it on
geographical discriminations. Discountenance slan-
der of public men. Let the departments of govern-
ment avoid interfering and mutual encroachment.

XIIL — Morals, religion, industry, commerce, econ-
omy.

Cherish public credit — source of strength and se-
curity.

Adherence to systematic views.

XIV. — Cherish good faith, justice, and peace with
other nations :

I . Because religion and morality dictate it.

Farewell Address 185

2. Because policy dictates it.

If these could exist, a nation invariably honest and
faithful, the benefits would be immense.

But avoid national antipathies or national attach-
ments.

Display the evils; fertile wSource of wars — instru-
ment of ambitious rulers.

XV. — Republics peculiarly exposed to foreign in-
trigue, those sentiments lay them open to it.

XVI. — The great rule of our foreign politics ought
to be to have as little political connection as possible
with foreign nations.

Cultivating commerce with all by gentle and natu-
ral means, diffusing and diversifying it, but forcing
nothing — and cherish the sentiment of independence,
taking pride in the appellation of American.

XVII. — Our separation from Europe renders stand-
ing alliances inexpedient — subjecting our peace and
interest to the primary and complicated relations of
European interests.

Keeping constantly in view to place ourselves upon
a respectable defensive, and if forced into contro-
versy, trusting to connections of the occasion.

XVIII. — Our attitude imposing and rendering this
policy safe.

But this must be with the exception of existing
engagements, to be preserved but not extended.

XIX. — It is not expected that these admonitions
can control the course of the human passions, but if
they only moderate them in some instances, and now
and then excite the reflections of virtuous men
heated by party spirit, my endeavor is rewarded.

1 86 Alexander Hamilton

XX. — How far in the administration of my present
office my conduct has conformed to these principles,
the public records must witness. My conscience as-
sures me that I believed myself to be guided by them.

XXI. — Particularly in relation to the present war,
the proclamation of the 2 2d of April, 1793, is the key
to my plan.

Approved by your voice and that of your represent-
atives in Congress, the spirit of that measure has
continually guided me, uninfluenced by, and regard-
less of, the complaints and attempts of any of the
powers at war or their partisans to change them.

I thought our country had a right under all the cir-
cumstances to take this ground, and I was resolved,
as far as depended on me, to maintain it firmly.

XXII. — However, in reviewing the course of my
administration, I may be unconscious of intentional
errors, I am too sensible of my own deficiencies not
to believe that I may have fallen into many. I de-
precate the evils to which they may tend, and pray
Heaven to avert or mitigate and abridge them. I
carry with me, nevertheless, the hope that my mo-
tives will continue to be viewed with indulgence;
that after forty-five years of my life devoted to pub-
lic service, with a good zeal and upright views, the
faults of deficient abilities will be consigned to ob-
livion, as myself must soon be to the mansions of
rest.

XXIII. — Neither interest nor ambition has been
my impelling motive. I never abused the power con-
fided to me. I have not bettered my fortune, re-
tiring with it, no otherwise improved than by the

Farewell Address 187

influence on property of the common blessings of my
country. I retire with undefiled hands and an un-
corrupted heart, and with ardent vows for the wel-
fare of that country, which has been the native soil
of myself and my ancestors for four generations.

WASHINGTON'S FAREWELL ADDRESS ^

"Original Draft" by Hamilton. ^

August, 1796.

The period for a new election of a citizen to ad-
minister the executive government of the United
States being not very distant, and the time actually

^ The question of the authorship of the Farewell Address has been
discussed with the utmost ability by Horace Binney in his Inquiry into
the Formation of Washington's Farewell Address. That masterly argu-
ment, in every way worthy of its distinguished author, finally settled
all doubts or questionings on the subject, and to it every one interested
in the matter must be referred. It is only needful here to give a bare
outline of the facts in the case.

In 1792, Washington, contemplating withdrawal from public life,
sent Madison certain suggestions and asked him to put them into the
form of an address. This Madison did very briefly, confining himself
to the points given him by Washington. As Washington decided to
accept a second term the paper was not used. In 1796 Washington
sent to Hamilton the draft by Madison, together with certain addi-
tional paragraphs of his own, which made, as Mr. Binney said, the ' 'soul
of the address." These two papers constituted Washington's original
draft, and Hamilton was requested to ''re-dress'' it. Hamilton, first
incorporating these suggestions in the "abstract of points" just given,
and adhering strictly to the lines marked out by Washington, made an
entirely new draft of his own. This may be called Hamilton's original
draft, which was sent to Washington at once. Hamilton then took
Washington's original draft and consulted Jay in regard to it. The
result of this conference was that Hamilton drew up a paper of changes

2 This is a copy of the original draft in Hamilton's autograph. The
notes embrace the final alterations in this draft — but there are many
previous erasures which can only be given in a fac-simile.

1 88 Alexander Hamilton

arrived when your thoughts must be employed in
designating the person who is to be clothed with that
important trust for another term, it appears to me
proper, and especially as it may conduce to a more
distinct expression of the public voice, that I should
now apprise you of the resolution I have formed to

and corrections which he sent back to Washington together with the
latter's original draft. Washington compared the three papers with
his customary care, and then wrote that he greatly preferred Hamil-
ton's original draft, and returned it to the author for certain changes
including the addition of a paragraph on education, and asked that it
be put in shape for the press. Hamilton, therefore, wrote a second
draft, which may be called "Hamilton's revision," and sent it to
Washington, September i, 1796. Washington then made an auto-
graph copy of the revision, cancelled all those passages which he had
told Hamilton he should expunge, and on Sept. 17th the "Farewell
Address" was given to the world. Washington kept with wonted care
every paper relating to the Farewell Address, but "Hamilton's
revision" has disappeared. The circumstances connected with this
disappearance are suspicious, but as Hamilton preserved his original
draft, the suppression of the revision, if there was any evil intention
in the matter, failed of its purpose. The original draft of Hamilton
shows beyond question the hand which gave form to the Farewell
Address. The differences between that draft and the Farewell
Address are such as would have been made in the revision, except as
to the cancelled passages which Washington cut out in bulk as he
originally proposed. Jay's argument, written in 181 1, carries its own
refutation, for he cites as a proof of his theory that Washington alone
could with propriety write such a paper, a passage which is taken
word for word from Madison's draft of 1792. Mr. Binney's conclusion
is ima voidable. The thoughts and the general idea of the Farewell
Address are all Washington's. The form, the arrangement, and the
method of argument are Hamilton's. No edition of Hamilton's works
would be complete without showing in some degree the share which
he had in this famous paper. I have, therefore, printed here as best
adapted for this purpose two documents. The first is the abstract of
points just given, which was made by Hamilton for his own use and
drawn from Washington's original draft composed of Madison's sketch
and his own additional suggestions. The other is Hamilton's original
draft. These papers can be readily compared with the Farewell
Address as it finally appeared, and in this way Hamilton's share in
this great state paper is at once apparent. In the private correspond-

Farewell Address 189

decline being considered among the number of those
out of whom a choice is to be made.

I beg you, nevertheless,' to be assured that the
resolution which I announce has not been taken
without a strict regard to all the considerations at-
tached to '' the relation which, as a dutiful citizen,
I bear ^ to my "^ country, and that in withdrawing the
tender of my service, which silence in my situation
might imply, I am influenced by no diminution of
zeal for its future interest, nor by any deficiency of
grateful respect for its past kindness, but by a
full conviction that such a step is compatible with
both.

The acceptance of, and the continuance hitherto in
the office to which your suffrages have twice called
me, has been a uniform sacrifice of private inclina-
tion to ^ the opinion of public duty coinciding with
what appeared to be your wishes. I had constantly
hoped that it would have been much earlier in my
power, consistently with motives which I was not
at liberty to disregard, to return to that retirement
from which those ^ motives had reluctantly drawn me.

The strength of my desire to withdraw previous to
the last election, had even led to the preparation of

ence in this edition, all Hamilton's letters on the subject will be found
printed, in conjunction with those of Washington, for the first time.

All the important documents are given in Mr. Binney's Inquiry, but
the appendix to Irving's Life of Washington (vol. v.), the appendix to
Sparks' edition of the Writings of Washington (vol. xii.), and Hamilton's
History of the Republic (vol. vi., p. 492), should also be consulted by
every one desiring the fullest information.

' at the same time. * connected with — ^inseparable from — incident
to.

3 bears. •♦ his. s combined with a deference for. 6 they.

190 Alexander Hamilton

an address to declare it to you, but deliberate ' re-
flection on the very critical and perplexed posture of
our affairs with foreign nations, and the unanimous
advice of men "" every way entitled to my confidence,
obliged ^ me to abandon the idea.

I rejoice that the state of your national concerns,
external as well as internal, no longer renders the
pursuit of my inclination incompatible with the
sentiment of duty or propriety, and ^ that whatever
partiality any portion of you may still retain for my
services, they, under the existing circumstances of
our country, will not disapprove the ^ resolution ^
I have formed.

The impressions under which I first accepted the
arduous trust of Chief Magistrate of the United
States, were explained on the proper occasion. In
the discharge of this trust, I can only say that I
have, with pure intentions, contributed towards the
organization and administration of the government
the best exertions of which a very fallible judgment
was capable ; that conscious at '' the outset of the
inferiority of my qualifications for the station, ex-
perience in my own eyes, and perhaps still more in
those of others, has not diminished in me the diffi-
dence of myself — and every day the increasing
weight of years admonishes me more and more that
the shade of retirement is as necessary ^ as it will be
welcome to me. Satisfied that if any circumstances
have given a peculiar value to my services, they were
temporary, I have the consolation to believe that

^ mature. « persons. 3 impelled. ^ whatever.

^ my. 6 to retire. 7 in. 8 to me.

Farewell Address 191

while inclination and prudence urge me to recede
from the political scene, patriotism does not forbid
it. May I also have that of knowing in my retreat,'
that the involuntary errors which I have probably
committed have been the causes of no serious or
lasting mischief to my country, and thus be spared
the anguish of regrets which would disturb the
repose of my retreat and embitter the remnant
of my life! I may then expect to realize, with-
out alloy, the pure enjoyment of partaking, in the
midst of my fellow-citizens, of the benign influence
of good laws under a free government; the ulti-
mate object of all my wishes, and to which I look
as the happy reward ^ of our mutual labors and
dangers.

In looking forward to the moment which is to ter-
minate the career of my public life, my sensations do
not permit me to suspend the deep acknowledgments
required by that debt of gratitude, which I owe to
my beloved country, for the many honors it has
conferred upon me, still more for the distinguished
and steadfast confidence it has reposed in me, and
for the opportunities it has thus afforded me ^ of
manifesting my inviolable attachment, by services
faithful and persevering — however the inadequate-
ness of my faculties may have ill seconded my 4 zeal.
If benefits have resulted to you, my fellow-citizens,
from these services, let it always be remembered to
your praise, and as an instructive example in our
annals, that the constancy of your support amidst

^ retirement. * I hope. ^ i have thence enjoyed.

4 have rendered their efforts unequal to my — disproportional.

192 Alexander Hamilton

appearances ' dubious, vicissitudes of fortune often
discouraging, and in situations in which, not unfre-
quently, want of success has seconded the criticisms
of malevolence,^ was the essential prop of the efforts
and the guaranty of the measures by which they
were achieved.

Profoundly penetrated with this idea, I shall carry
it with me to my retirement, and to my grave, as a
lively incitement to unceasing vows (the only re-
turns I can henceforth make) that Heaven may
continue to you the choicest tokens of its benefi-
cence, merited by national piety and morality ; that
your union and brotherly affection may be perpetual ;
that the free Constitution, which is the work of
your own hands, may be sacredly maintained; that
its administration in every department may be
stamped with wisdom and virtue; that, in fine, the
happiness of the people of these States under the
auspices of liberty may be made complete, by so
careful a preservation, and so prudent a use of this
blessing, as will acquire them the glorious satisfac-
tion of recommending it to the affection, the praise,
and the adoption of every nation which is yet a
stranger to it.

Here, perhaps, I ought to stop; but a solicitude
for your welfare, which cannot end but with my life,
and the fear that there may exist projects unfriendly
to it, against which it may be necessary you should
be guarded, urge me in taking leave of you to offer
to your solemn consideration and frequent review,

' tinder circiimstances in which the passions, agitated in every
direction, were liable to the greatest fluctuations. ^ sometimes.

Farewell Address 193

some sentiments, the result of mature reflection con-
firmed by observation and experience, which appear
to me essential to the permanency of your felicity as
a people. These will be offered with the more free-
dom, as you can only see in them the disinterested
advice of a parting friend, who can have no personal
motive to tincture or bias his counsel.

Interwoven as is the love of liberty with every fibre
of your hearts, no recommendation is necessary to
fortify your attachment to it. Next to this, that
unity of government which constitutes you as one
people, claims your vigilant care and guardianship —
as a main pillar of your real independence, of your
peace, safety, freedom, and happiness.

This being the point in your political fortress
against which the batteries of internal and external
enemies will be most constantly and actively, how-
ever covertly and insidiously levelled, it is of the
utmost importance that you should appreciate, in its
full force, the immense value of your political union
to your national and individual happiness — that you
should cherish towards it an affectionate and im-
movable attachment, and that you should watch for
its preservation with zealous solicitude.

For this, you have every motive of sympathy and
interest. Children for the most part of a common
country, that country claims and ought to concen-
trate your affections. The name of American must
always gratify and exalt the just pride of patriotism
more than any denomination which can be derived
from local discriminations. You have, with slight
shades of difference, the same religion, manners,

VOL. VIII. — 13.

194 Alexander Hamilton

habits, and political institutions and principles ; you
have, in a common cause, fought and triumphed
together. The independence and liberty you enjoy
are the work of joint councils, efforts, dangers, suf-
ferings, and successes. By your union you have
achieved them, by your union you will most effectu-
ally maintain them.

The considerations which address themselves to
your sensibility are greatly ' strengthened ^ by those
which apply to your interest. Here, every portion
of our country will find the most urgent and com-
manding motives for guarding and preserving the
union of the whole.

The North, in ^ intercourse with the South, under
the equal laws of one government, will, in the pro-
ductions of the latter, many of them peculiar, find
vast additional resources of maritime and commer-
cial enterprise. 4 The South, in the same intercourse,
will share in the benefits of the agency of the North,
will find its agriculture promoted and its commerce
extended by turning into its own channels those
means of navigation which the North more abun-
dantly affords; and while it contributes to extend
the national navigation, will participate in the pro-
tection of a maritime strength to which itself is un-
equally adapted. The East, in a like intercourse with
the West, finds ^ a valuable vent for the commodi-
ties which it brings from abroad or manufactures
at home. The West derives through this channel

^ even. ^ outweighed. ^ free and unfettered.

^ and precious materials of their manufacturing industry,
s and in the progressive improvement of internal navigation will
more and more find.

Farewell Address 195

an essential supply of its wants; and what is far
more important to it, it must owe the secure and
permanent enjoyment of the indispensable outlets
for its own productions to the weight, influence, and
maritime resources of the Atlantic States.' The
tenure by which it could hold this advantage, either
from its own separate strength, or by an apostate and
unnatural connection with any foreign nation, must
be intrinsically and necessarily precarious, at every
moment liable to be disturbed by the ^ combinations
of those primary ^ interests which constantly regu-
late the conduct of every portion of Europe — and
where every part finds a particular interest in the
Union. All the parts of our country will find in
their Union ^ strength, proportional security from
external danger, less frequent interruption of their
peace with foreign nations; and what is far more
valuable, an exemption from those broils and wars
between the parts if disunited, which, then, our
rivalships, fomented by foreign intrigue or the op-
posite alliances with foreign nations engendered by
their mutual jealousies, would inevitably produce.^

These considerations speak a conclusive language
to every virtuous and considerate mind. They place

1 directed by an indissoluble commtinity of interests.

2 fluctuating.

3 European.

"♦ greater independence from the superior abundance and variety of
production incident to the diversity of soil and climate. All the parts
of it must find in the aggregate assemblage and reaction of their mutual
population — production .

s consequent exemption from the necessity of those military estab-
lishments upon a large scale which bear in every coiintry so menacing
an aspect towards liberty.

196 Alexander Hamilton

the continuance of our union among the first objects
of patriotic desire. Is there a doubt whether a com-
mon government can long embrace so extensive a
sphere? Let time and experience decide the ques-
tion. Speculation in such a case ought not to be
listened to. And 't is rational to hope that the
auxiliary ' governments of the subdivisions, with a
proper organization of the whole, will secure a favor-
able issue to the experiment. 'T is allowable to be-
lieve that the spirit of party, the intrigues of foreign
nations, the corruption and the ambition of individ-
uals, are likely to prove more formidable adver-
saries to the unity of our empire, than any inherent
difficulties in the scheme. 'T is against these that
the guards ^ of national opinion, national sympathy,
national prudence and virtue, are to be erected.
With such obvious motives to union, there will be
always cause from the fact itself to distrust the
patriotism of those who ^ may endeavor to weaken
its bands. And by all the love I bear you, my fellow-
citizens, I conjure "^ you, as often as ^ it appears, to
frown upon the attempt.

Besides the more serious causes which have been
hinted at as endangering our Union, there is another
less dangerous, but against which it is necessary to
be on our guard ; I mean the petulance of party ^
differences of opinion. It is not uncommon to hear
the irritations which these excite, vent themselves in
declarations that the different parts of the Union
are ill assorted and cannot remain together — in

^ agency of. 3 in any quarter. 5 "often" — instead of "far."

^ moiinds. ■* exhort — (written first). ^ collisions and disgusts.

Farewell Address 197

menaces from the inhabitants of one part to those
of another, that it will be dissolved by this or that
measure. Intimations of the kind are as indiscreet
as they are intemperate. Though frequently made
with levity and without being in earnest, they have
a tendency to produce the consequence which they
indicate. They teach the minds of men to consider
the Union as precarious, as an object to which they
are not to attach their hopes and fortunes, and thus
weaken the sentiment in its favor. By rousing the
resentment and alarming the pride of those to whom
they are addressed, they set ingenuity to work to
deprecate the value of the object, and to discover
motives of indifference to it. This is not wise. Pru-
dence demands that we should habituate ourselves in
all our words and actions to reverence the Union as
a sacred and inviolable palladium of our happiness,
and should discountenance whatever can lead to a
suspicion that it can in any event be abandoned.

'T is matter of serious concern that parties in this
country for some time past have been too much
characterized by geographical discriminations —
northern and southern States, Atlantic and western
country. These discriminations,' which are the
mere artifice of the spirit of party (always dexterous
to avail itself of every source of sympathy,^ of every
handle by which the passions can be taken hold of,
and which has been careful to turn to account the
circumstance of territorial vicinity ^),have furnished
an argument against the Union as evidence of a real
difference of local interests and views, and serve to

^ of party. " sympathy of. 3 neighborhood.

198 Alexander Hamilton

hazard it by organizing large districts of country
under the direction of ' different factions whose pas-
sions and prejudices, rather than the true interests
of the country, will be too apt to regulate the use
of their influence. If it be possible to correct this
poison in the affairs of our country, it is worthy the
best endeavors of moderate and virtuous men to
effect it.

One of the expedients which the partisans of fac-
tion employ towards strengthening their influence
by local discriminations, "" is to misrepresent the
opinions and views of rival districts. The people at
large cannot be too much on their guard against the
jealousies which grow out of these misrepresenta-
tions. They tend to render aliens to each other
those who ought to be tied together by fraternal
affection. The people of the western country have
lately had a useful lesson on this subject. They
have seen in the negotiation by the Executive, and
in the unanimous ratification of the treaty with
Spain by the Senate, and in the universal satisfac-
tion at that event in all parts of the country, a de-
cisive proof how unfounded have been the suspicions
instilled ^ in them of a policy in the Atlantic States,
and in the different departments of the general gov-
ernment, hostile to their interests in relation to the
Mississippi. They have seen two treaties formed
which secure to them every thing that they could
desire to confirm their prosperity. Will they not
henceforth rely for the preservation of these advan-
tages on that Union by which they were procured?

* the leaders of. * within local spheres. ^ propagated among.

Farewell Address 199

Will they not reject those counsellors who would
render them alien to their brethren and connect
them with aliens?

To the duration and efficacy of your Union, a gov-
ernment extending over the whole is indispensable.
No alliances however strict between the parts could
be an adequate substitute. These could not fail to
be liable to the infractions and interruptions which
all alliances in all times have suffered. Sensible of
this important truth, you have lately established a
Constitution of general government, better calcu-
lated than the former for an intimate union, and
more adequate to the duration of your common con-
cerns. This government, the offspring of your own
choice, uninfluenced and unawed, completely free in
its principles, in the distribution of its powers, unit-
ing energy with safety, and containing in itself a
provision for its own amendment, is well entitled to
your confidence and support. Respect for its au-
thority, compliance with its laws, acquiescence in its
measures,' are duties dictated by the fundamental
maxims of true liberty. The basis of our political
systems is the right of the people to make and
to alter their constitutions of government. But the
Constitution for the time, and until changed by an
explicit and authentic act of the whole people, is
sacredly binding upon all. The very idea of the
right and power of the people to establish govern-
ment presupposes the duty of every individual to
obey the established government.

All obstructions to the execution of the laws — all

^ ordinary management of affairs to be left to represent.

200 Alexander Hamilton

combinations and associations under whatever plaus-
ible character, with the real design to counteract,'
control,'' or awe the regular ^ action of the constituted
authorities, are contrary to this fundamental prin-
ciple, and of the most fatal tendency. They serve
to organize faction,^ and to put in the stead of the
delegated will of the whole nation the will of a party,
often a small ^ minority of the whole community ;
and according to the alternate triumph of different
parties to make the public administration reflect
the ^ schemes and projects of faction rather than the
wholesome plans of common councils and delibera-
tions. However combinations or associations of this
description may occasionally promote popular ends
and purposes, they are likely to produce, in the
course of time and things, the most effectual engines
by which artful, ambitious, and unprincipled men
will be enabled to subvert the power of the people
and usurp the reins of government.

Towards the preservation of your government and
the permanency of your present happy state, it is
not only requisite that you steadily discountenance
irregular oppositions to its authority, but that you
should be upon your guard against the spirit of in-
novation upon its principles, however specious the
pretexts. One method of assault may be to effect
alterations in the forms of the Constitution tending
to impair the energy of the system, and so to under-
mine what cannot be directly overthrown. In all

^ direct. * influence. 3 deliberation or.

4 to give it an artificial force. s but artftil and enterprising.

6 ill concerted.

Farewell Address 201

the changes to which you may be invited, remember
that time and habit are as necessary to fix the true
character of governments as of any other human
institutions; that experience is the surest standard
by which the real tendency of existing constitutions
of government can be tried ; that changes upon ' the
credit of mere hypothesis and opinion expose you to
perpetual change from the successive and endless
variety of hypothesis and opinion. And remember
also,^ that for the efficacious management of your
common interests, in a country so extensive as ours,
a government of as much force and strength as is
consistent with the perfect security of liberty is
indispensable. Liberty itself will find in such a
government, with powers properly distributed and
arranged, its surest guardian and protector. In my
opinion, the real danger in our system is, that the
general government, organized as at present, will
prove too weak rather than too powerful.

I have already observed the danger to be appre-
hended from founding our parties on geographical
discriminations. Let me now enlarge the view of
this point, and caution you in the most solemn man-
ner against the baneful effects of party spirit in gen-
eral. This spirit unfortunately is inseparable from
human nature, and has its root in the strongest pas-
sions of the human heart. It exists under different
shapes in all governments, but 3 in those of the popu-
lar form it is always seen in its utmost vigor and
rankness, and is their worst enemy. In republics of

' facility in. ^ always.

3 in difEerent degrees stifled, controlled, or repressed.

202 Alexander Hamilton

narrow extent, it is not difficult for those who at any
time possess the reins of administration, or even for
partial combinations of men, who from birth, riches,
and other sources of distinction have an extraor-
dinary influence, by possessing or acquiring the direc-
tion of the military force, or by sudden efforts of
partisans and followers, to overturn the established
order of things, and effect a usurpation. But in re-
publics of large extent, the one or the other is scarcely
possible. The powers and opportunities of resist-
ance of a numerous and wide-extended nation defy
the successful efforts of the ordinary military force,
or of any collections ' which wealth and patronage
may call to their aid, especially if there be no city of
overbearing force, resources, and influence. In such
republics it is perhaps safe to assert that the con-
flicts of popular faction offer the only avenues to
tyranny and usurpation. The domination of one
faction over another, stimulated by that spirit of
revenge which is apt to be gradually engendered, and
which in different ages and countries has produced
the greatest enormities, is itself a frightful despot-
ism. But this leads at length to a more formal and
permanent despotism. The disorders and miseries
which result predispose the minds of men to seek
repose and security in the absolute power of a single
man. And the ^ leader of a prevailing faction, more
able or more fortunate than his competitors, turns
this disposition to the purposes of an ambitious and
criminal self-aggrandizement.

Without looking forward to such an extremity

^ assemblages. ^ some.

Farewell Address 203

(which, however, ought not to be out of sight), the
ordinary and continual mischiefs of the spirit of
party make it the interest and the duty of a wise
people, to discountenance and repress it.

It serves always to distract the councils and en-
feeble the administration of the government. It
agitates the community with ill-founded jealousies
and false alarms.' It opens inlets for foreign cor-
ruption and influence, which find an easy access
through the channels of party passions, and causes
the true policy and interest of our own country to be
made subservient to the policy and interest of one
and another foreign nation, sometimes enslaving our
own government to the will of a foreign government.

There is an opinion that parties in free countries
are salutary checks upon the administration of the
government, and serve to invigorate the spirit of lib-
erty. This, within certain limits, is true; and in
governments of a monarchical character or bias,
patriotism may look with some favor on the spirit of
party. But in those of the popular kind, in those
purely elective, it is a spirit not to be fostered or
encouraged. From the natural tendency of such
governments, it is certain there will always be
enough of it for every salutary purpose, and there
being constant danger of excess, the effort ought to
be, by the force of public opinion, to mitigate and
correct it. 'T is a fire which ^ cannot be quenched,
but demands ^ a uniform vigilance to prevent its

* embittering one part of the community against another, and pro-
ducing occasionally riot and insurrection.

2 not to. 3 demanding.

204 Alexander Hamilton

bursting into a flame — ^lest it should not only warm
but consume.

It is important, likewise, that the habits of think-
ing of the people should tend to produce caution
in their public agents in the several departments of
government, to retain each within its proper sphere,
and not to permit one to encroach upon another;
that every attempt of the kind, from whatever quar-
ter, should meet with the discountenance ' of the
community, and that, in every case in which a pre-
cedent of encroachment shall have been given, a cor-
rective be sought in [revocation be effected by] a
careful attention to the next choice ^ of public
agents. The spirit of encroachment tends to absorb ^
the powers of the several branches and departments
into one, and thus to establish, under whatever form,
a despotism. A just knowledge of the himian heart,
of that love of power which predominates in it,
is alone sufficient to establish this truth. Experi-
ments, ancient and modern, some in our own country,
and under our own eyes, serve to confirm it. If, in
the public opinion, the distribution of the constitu-
tional powers be in any instance wrong, or in-
expedient, let it be corrected by the authority of
the people in a legitimate constitutional course. Let
there be no change by usurpation, for though this
m.ay be the instrument of good in one instance,
it is the ordinary ^ instrument of the destruc-
tion ^ of free government — and the influence of
the precedent is always infinitely more pernicious

' reprobation. " election. ^ and consolidate.

4 and natural. ^ death.

Farewell Address 205

than any thing which it may achieve can be bene-
ficial.

In all those dispositions which promote political
happiness,' religion and morality are essential props.
In vain does he "" claim the praise of patriotism, who
labors to subvert or undermine these great pillars of
human happiness, these firmest foundations of the
duties of men and citizens. The mere politician,
equally with the pious man, ought to respect and
cherish them. A volume could not trace all their
connections with private and public happiness.

Let it simply be asked, where is the security for
property, for reputation, for life, if the sense of
moral and religious obligation deserts the oaths
which are administered ^ in courts of justice ? Nor
ought we to flatter ourselves that morality can be
separated from religion. Concede as much as may
be asked to the effect of refined education in minds
of peculiar structure, can we believe, can we in pru-
dence suppose, that national morality can be main-
tained in exclusion of religious principles? Does it
not require the aid of a generally received and di-
vinely authoritative religion?

'T is essentially true that virtue or morality is a
main and necessary spring of popular or republican
governments. The rule, indeed, extends with more
or less force to all free governments. Who that is a
prudent and sincere friend to them, can look with
indifference on the ravages which are making in the
foundation of the fabric — religion? The uncommon

^ prosperity. ^ that man.

3 instruments of investigation.

2o6 Alexander Hamilton

means which of late have been directed to this fatal
end, seem to make it in a particular manner the duty
of a retiring chief of a nation to warn his country
against tasting of the poisonous draught.

Cultivate, also, industry and frugality. They are
auxiliaries of good morals, and great sources of pri-
vate and national prosperity. Is there not room for
regret, that our propensity to expense exceeds the
maturity of our country for expense? Is there not
more luxury among us, in various classes, than suits
the actual period of our national progress? What-
ever may be the apology for luxury in a country
mature in all the arts which are its ministers and
the means of national opulence — can it promote the
advantage of a young agricultural country, little
advanced in manufactures, and not much advanced
in wealth? '

Cherish public credit as a means of strength and
security. As one method of preserving it, use it as
little as possible. Avoid occasions of expense by
cultivating peace — remembering always that the
preparation against danger, by timely and provident
disbursements, is often a mean of avoiding greater
disbursements to repel it. Avoid the acctmiulation
of debt by avoiding occasions of expense, and by
vigorous exertions in time of peace to discharge the
debts which unavoidable wars may have occasioned,
not transferring to posterity the burthen which we
ought to bear ourselves. Recollect, that towards the
payment of debts there must be revenue, that to

^ in the infancy of the arts, and certainly not in the manhood of
wealth.

Farewell Address 207

have revenue there must be taxes, that it is impos-
sible to devise taxes which are not more or less in-
convenient and unpleasant — that they are always a
choice of difficulties, that the intrinsic embarrass-
ment which never fails to attend a selection of ob-
jects ought to be a motive for a candid construction
of the conduct of the government in making it, and
that a spirit of acquiescence in those measures for
obtaining revenue which the public exigencies dic-
tate, is, in an especial manner, the duty and interest
of the citizens of every state.

Cherish good faith and justice towards, and peace
and harmony with, all nations. Religion and moral-
ity enjoin this conduct, and it cannot be but that
true policy equally demands it. It will be worthy
of a free, enlightened, and at no distant period, a
great nation, to give to mankind the magnanimous
and too novel example of a people invariably gov-
erned by ' those exalted views. Who can doubt
that in a long course of time and events the fruits of
such a conduct would richly repay any temporary
advantages which might be lost by a steady adher-
ence to the plan ? Can it be that Providence has not
connected the permanent felicity of a nation with its
virtue? The experiment is recommended by every
sentiment which ennobles human nature. Alas! is
it rendered impossible by its vices?

Towards the execution of such a plan,^ nothing is
more essential than that ^ antipathies against par-

^ exalted justice and benevolence.
* it is very material.

3 that while we entertain proper impressions of particular cases— of
friendly or imfriendly conduct of different foreign nations towards us,

2o8 Alexander Hamilton

ticular nations and passionate attachments for others
should be avoided, and that instead of them we
should cultivate just and amicable feelings towards
oll^ * * ^ That nation which indulges towards
another an habitual hatred or an habitual fondness,
is in some degree a slave. * * * It is a slave to
its animosity, or to its affection — either of which is
sufficient to lead it astray from its duty and interest.
Antipathy against one nation, which never fails to
beget a similar sentiment in the other, disposes each
more readily to offer injury and insult to the other,
to lay hold of slight causes of umbrage, and to be
haughty and untractable when accidental or trifling
differences arise. Hence frequent quarrels ' and bit-
ter and obstinate contests. The nation urged by
resentment and rage, sometimes compels the govern-
ment to war, contrary to its own calculations of
policy. The government sometimes participates in
this propensity, and does through passion what
reason would forbid at other times; it makes the
animosity of the nations subservient to hostile pro-
jects which originate in ambition and other sinister
motives. The peace, often, and sometimes the lib-
erty of nations, has been the victim of this cause.

In like manner "" sl passionate attachment of one
nation to another produces multiplied ills. Sym-
pathy for the favorite nation, promoting ^ the illu-
sion of a supposed common interest, in cases where
it does not exist, "^ the enmities of the one betray the

we nevertheless avoid fixed and rooted antipathies against any, or
passionate attachments for any, instead of these cultivating, as a
general rule, just and amicable feelings towards all.

^ broils. ^So likewise, ^facilitating, ^and communicating to one.

Farewell Address 209

other into a participation in its quarrels and wars,
without adequate inducements or justifications. It
leads to the concession of privileges to one nation,
and to the denial of them to others, which is apt
doubly to injure the nation making the concession
by an unnecessary yielding of what ought to have
been retained, and by exciting jealousy, ill-will, and
retaliation in the party from whom an equal privi-
lege is withheld. And it gives to ambitious, cor-
rupted ' citizens, who devote themselves to the views
of the favorite foreign power, facility in betraying
or sacrificing the interests of their own country,
even with popularity, "" gilding with ^

As avenues to foreign influence in innumerable
ways, such attachments are peculiarly alarming
to the enlightened independent patriot. How many
opportunities do they afford to intrigue with domes-
tic factions, to practise with success the arts of
seduction, to mislead "^ the public opinion — to influ-
ence or awe the public councils? Such an attach-
ment of a small or weak towards a great and
powerful nation, destines the former to revolve
round the latter as its satellite.

Against the mischiefs of foreign influence all the
jealousy of a free people ought to be constantly ^
exerted ^ ; but the jealousy of it to be useful must

^ or deluded. - * without odium.

3 the appearance of a virtuous impulse, the base yieldings of ambition
or corruption.

4 "mislead" for "misdirect." 5 continually.

6 all history and experience in different ages and nations have proved
that foreign influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican
government.

VOL. VIII.— 14.

2IO Alexander Hamilton

be impartial, else it becomes an instrument of the
very influence to be avoided, instead of a defence '
against it.

Excessive partiality for one foreign nation, and
excessive dislike of another, leads to see danger only
on one side, and serves to veil ^ the arts of influence
on the other. Real patriots, who resist the intrigues
of the favorite, become suspected and odious. Its
tools and dupes usurp the applause and confidence of
the people to betray their interests.

The great rule of conduct for us in regard to for-
eign nations ought to be to have as little political
connection with them as possible. So far as we
have already formed engagements, let them be ful-
filled with circumspection, indeed, but with perfect
good faith; here ^ let it stop.

Europe has a set of primary interests, which have
none or a very remote relation to us. Hence she
must be involved in frequent contests, the causes
of which will be essentially foreign to us. Hence
therefore, it must necessarily be unwise on our part
to implicate ourselves by an artificial connection in
the ordinary vicissitudes of European politics — in
the combination and collisions of her friendships or
enmities.

Our detached and distant situation invites us to
a different course, and enables us to pursue it. If
we remain a united people, under an eflicient govern-
ment, the period is not distant when we may defy
material injury from external annoyance — when we
may take such an attitude as will cause the neu-

^ guard. * and second. 3 but there.

Farewell Address 211

trality we shall at any time resolve to observe,
to be violated with caution — when it will be the
interest of belligerent nations, under the impos-
sibility of making acquisitions upon us, to be very
careful how either forced us to throw our weight
into the opposite scale — when we may choose
peace or war, as our interest, guided by justice, shall
dictate.

Why should we forego the advantages of so felici-
tous a situation ? Why quit our own ground to
stand upon foreign ground? Why, by interweaving
our destiny with any part of Europe, should we
entangle our prosperity and peace in the nets of
European ambition, rivalship, interest, or caprice?

Permanent alliance, intimate connection with any
part of the foreign world is to be avoided; so far, I
mean, as we are now at liberty to do it; for let me
never be understood as patronizing infidelity to pre-
existing engagements. These must be observed in
their true and genuine sense.'

Harmony, liberal intercourse, and commerce with
all nations are recommended by justice, humanity,
and interest. But even our commercial policy
should hold an equal hand, neither seeking nor
granting exclusive favors or preferences — consulting
the natural course of things — diffusing and diversify-
ing by gentle means the streams of commerce, but
forcing nothing — establishing with powers so dis-

^ But 't is not necessary, nor will it be prudent, to extend them.
'T is our true policy, as a general principle, to avoid permanent or
close alliances. Taking care always to keep ourselves by suitable
establishments in a respectably defensive position, we may safely trust
to occasional alliances for extraordinary emergencies.

212 Alexander Hamilton

posed ' temporary * rules of intercourse, the best
that present circumstances and mutual opinion of
interest will permit, but temporary, and liable to be
abandoned or varied, as time, experience, and future
circumstances may dictate — remembering ^ that it is
folly in one nation to expect disinterested favor in
another, that to accept "^ is to part with a portion
of its independence, and that it may find itself in the
condition of having given equivalents for nominal
favors, and of being reproached with ingratitude in
the bargain. There can be no greater error in na-
tional policy than to desire, expect, or calculate upon
real favors. 'T is an illusion that experience must
cure, that a just pride ought to discard.

In offering to you, my countrymen, these coun-
sels of an old and affectionate friend — counsels sug-
gested by laborious reflection, and matured by a
various experience, I dare not hope that they will
make the strong and lasting impressions I wish —
that they will control the current of the passions, or
prevent our nation from running the course which
has hitherto marked the destiny of all nations.

But ^ if they may even produce partial benefit,
some occasional good * * * that they some-
times recur to moderate the violence of party spirit,
to warn against the evils of foreign intrigue, to guard
against the impositions of pretended patriotism, the
having offered them must always afford me a precious
consolation.

» In order to give to trade a stable course, to define the rights of our
merchants, and enable the government to support them.

* and conventional. 3 always. ♦ any thing tinder that character.
5 I may flatter myself.

Farewell Address 213

How far in the execution of my present office I
have been guided by the principles which have been
recommended,' the public records and the external
evidences of my conduct must witness. My con-
science assures me that I have at least believed my-
self to be guided by them.

In reference to the present war of Europe, my
proclamation of the 2 2d April, 1793, is the key to
my plan, sanctioned by your approving voice, and
that of your Representatives in Congress — the spirit
of that measure has continually governed me — un-
influenced and unawed by the attempts of any of the
warring powers, their agents, or partisans, to deter
or divert from it.

After deliberate consideration, and the best lights
I could obtain (and from men who did not agree in
their views of the origin, progress, and nature of that
war), I was satisfied that our country, under all the
circumstances of the case, had a right and was bound
in propriety and interest to take a neutral position.
And having taken it, I determined as "" should de-
pend on me to maintain it steadily and firmly.^

Though in reviewing the incidents of my adminis-
tration I am unconscious of intentional error, I am
yet too sensible of my own deficiencies, not to think
it possible ^ that I have committed many errors ; I
deprecate the evils to which they may tend, and
fervently implore the Almighty to avert or mitigate

^ "inculcated" for "recommended."
^ as far as.

3 Here a large space is foimd in the draft evidently for the insertion
of other matter.

4 "probable" for "possible."

214 Alexander Hamilton

them. I shall carry with me, nevertheless, the hope
that my motives will continue to be viewed by my
country with indulgence, and that after forty-five
years of my life, devoted with an upright zeal to the
public service, the faults of inadequate abilities will
be consigned to oblivion, as myself must soon be to
the mansions of rest.

Neither ambition nor interest has been the impel-
ling cause of my actions. I never designedly mis-
used any power confided in me. The fortune with
which I came into office, is not bettered otherwise
than by that improvement in the value of property
which the natural progress and peculiar prosperity
of our country have produced. I retire ' with a
pure heart,^ with undefiled hands, and with ardent
vows for the happiness of a country, the native soil
of myself and progenitors for four generations.

PART OF WASHINGTON'S SPEECH TO
CONGRESS 3

First Draft by Hamilton.

December 7, 1796.

That, among the objects of labor and industry,
agriculture, considered with reference either to indi-
vidual or national welfare, is first in importance,
may safely be affirmed, without derogating from the
just and real value of any other branch. It is, in-

^ without cause for a blush.

* with no alien sentiment to the ardor of those vows for the happiness
of his country, which is so natural to a citizen who sees in it.
3 Writings of Washington, xiii., 65.

Speech 2 1 5

deed, the best basis of the prosperity of every other.
In proportion as nations progress in population and
other circumstances of maturity, this truth forces
itself more and more upon the conviction of rulers,
and makes the cultivation of the soil more and more
an object of public patronage and care. Institu-
tions for promoting it sooner or later grow up, sup-
ported by the public purse — and the full fruits of
them, when judiciously conceived and directed, have
fully justified the undertaking.

Among these, none have been found of greater
utility than Boards, composed of proper characters,
charged with collecting and communicating informa-
tion, and enabled to stimulate enterprise and ex-
periment by premiums and honorary rewards.
These have been found very cheap instruments of
immense benefits. They serve to excite a general
spirit of discovery and improvement, to stimulate
invention, to excite new and useful experiments —
and accumulating in one centre the skill and improve-
ment of every part of the nation, they spread it thence
over the whole nation, at the same time promoting
new discovery, and diffusing generally the knowledge
of all the discoveries which are made.

In the United States, hitherto, no such institution
has been essayed, though perhaps no country has
stronger motives to it.

Agriculture among us is certainly in a very im-
perfect state. In much of those parts where there
have been early settlements, the soil, impoverished
by an unskilful tillage, yields but a scanty reward for
the labor bestowed upon it, and leaves its possessors

2i6 Alexander Hamilton

under strong temptation to abandon it, and emi-
grate to distant regions, more fertile, because they
are newer, and have not yet been exhausted by an
unskilful use. This is every way an evil. The un-
due dislocation of our population from this cause
promotes neither the strength, the opulence, nor the
happiness of our country. It strongly admonishes
our national councils to apply, as far as may be prac-
tical, by natural and salutary means, an adequate
remedy. Nothing appears to be more unexceptiona-
ble, and likely to be more efficacious, than the insti-
tution of a Board of Agriculture, with the views I
have mentioned, and with a moderate fund towards
executing them. After mature reflection, I am per-
suaded it is difficult to render our coimtry a more
precious and general service, than by such an in-
stitution.

I will, however, observe, that if it be thought ex-
pedient, the objects of the Board may be still more
comprehensive. It may embrace the encouragement
of the mechanic and manufacturing arts by means
analogous to those for the improvement of agricul-
ture, and with an eye to the introduction, from
abroad, of useful machinery, etc. Or there may be
separate Boards, one charged with one object, the
other with the other.

I have, heretofore, suggested the expediency of
establishing a National University, and a Military
Academy. The vast utility of both these measures
presses so seriously and so constantly upon my mind,
that I cannot forbear with earnestness to repeat the
recommendation .

Speech 2 1 7

The assembly to which I address myself will not
doubt that the extension of science and knowledge is
an object primarily interesting to our national wel-
fare. To effect this is most naturally the care of the
particular local jurisdictions into which our country
is subdivided, as far as regards those branches of in-
struction which ought to be universally diffused, and
it gives pleasure to observe that new progress is con-
tinually making in the means employed for this end.
But, can it be doubted that the general government
would with peculiar propriety occupy itself in afford-
ing nutriment to those higher branches of science,
which, though not within the reach of general ac-
quisition, are in their consequences and relations
productive of general advantage? Or can it be
doubted that this great object would be materially
advanced by a university erected on that broad
basis to which the national resources are most ade-
quate, and so liberally endowed, as to command the
ablest professors in the several branches of liberal
knowledge? It is true, and to the honor of our
country, that it offers many colleges and academies,
highly respectable and useful, but the funds upon
which they are established are too narrow to permit
any of them to be an adequate substitute for such
an institution as is contemplated, and to which they
would be excellent auxiliarie^s. Amongst the mo-
tives to such an institution, the assimilation of the
principles, opinions, manners, and habits of our
countrymen, by drawing from all quarters our youth
to participate in a common education, well deserves
the attention of government. To render the people

2i8 Alexander Hamilton

of this country as homogeneous as possible, must
tend as much as any other circumstance to the per-
manency of their union and prosperity.

The eligibleness of a military academy depends on
that evident maxim of policy which requires every
nation to be prepared for war while cultivating
peace, and warns it against suffering the military
spirit and military knowledge wholly to decay.
However particular instances, superficially viewed,
may seem exceptions, it will not be doubted by any
who have attentively considered the subject, that
the military art is of a complicated and comprehen-
sive nature, that it demands much previous study
as well as practice, and that the possession of it in its
most improved state is always of vast importance
to the security of a nation. It ought, therefore, to
be a principal care of every government, however
pacific its general policy, to preserve and cultivate
— indeed, in proportion as the policy of a country is
pacific, and it is little liable to be called to practise the
rules of the military art, does it become the duty of
the government to take care, by proper institutions,
that it be not lost. A military academy, instituted
on proper principles, would serve to secure to our
country, though within a narrow sphere, a solid fund
of military information, which would always be
ready for national emergencies, and would facilitate
the diffusion of military knowledge as those emer-
gencies might require.

A systematic plan for the creation of a moderate
navy appears to me recommended by very weighty
considerations. An active external commerce de-

Speech 219

mands a naval power to protect it, besides the dan-
gers from wars, in which a maritime state is a party.
It is a truth, which our own experience has con-
firmed, that the most equitable and sincere neu-
trality is not sufficient to exempt a state from the
depredations of other nations at war with each other.
It is essential to induce them to respect that neutral-
ity, that there shall be an organized force ready to
vindicate the national flag. This may even prevent
the necessity of going into war by discouraging from
those insults and infractions of right, which some-
times proceed to an extreme that leaves no alter-
native. The United States abound in materials.
Their commerce, fast increasing, must proportion-
ately augment the number of their seamen, and give
us rapidly the means of a naval power, respectable,
if not great. Our relative situation, likewise, for
obvious reasons, would render a moderate force very
influential, more so, perhaps, than a much greater in
the hands of any other power. It is submitted as
well deserving consideration, whether it will not be
prudent immediately and gradually to provide and
lay up magazines of ship-timber, and to build and
equip annually one or more ships of force, as the de-
velopment of resources shall render convenient and
practicable, so that a future war in Europe, if we
escape the present storm, may not find our com-
merce in the defenceless situation in which the pres-
ent found it.

There is a subject which has dwelt long and much
upon my mind, which I cannot omit this opportunity
of suggesting. It is the compensation to our public

220 Alexander Hamilton

officers, especially those in the most important sta-
tions. Every man acquainted with the expense,
even of the most frugal plan of living in our great
cities, must be sensible of their inadequateness.
The impolicy of such defective provisions seems not
to have been sufficiently weighed.

No plan of governing is well founded, which does
not regard man as a compound of selfish and virtuous
passions. To expect him to be wholly guided by the
latter, would be as great an error as to suppose him
wholly destitute of them. Hence the necessity of
adequate rewards for those services of which the pub-
lic stand in need. Without them, the affairs of a
nation are likely to get sooner or later into incom-
petent or unfaithful hands. If their own private
wealth is to supply in the candidates for public office
the deficiency of public liberality, then the sphere of
those who can be candidates, especially in a country
like ours, is much narrowed, and the chance of a
choice of able as well as upright men much lessened.
Besides that, it would be repugnant to the first prin-
ciples of our government to exclude men, from the
public trusts, because their talents and virtues, how-
ever conspicuous, are unaccompanied by wealth.
If the rewards of the government are scanty, those
who have talents without wealth, and are too vir-
tuous to abuse their stations, cannot accept public
offices without a sacrifice of interest; which, in ordi-
nary times, may hardly be justified by their duty to
themselves and their families. If they have talents
without virtue, they may, indeed, accept offices to
make a dishonest and improper use of them. The

Speech
tendency then is to transfer the management of pub-
lic affairs to wealthy but incapable hands, or to hands
which, if capable, are as destitute of integrity as of
wealth. For a time, particular circumstances may
prevent such a course of things, and hitherto the in-
ference has not been verified in our experience. But
it is not the less probable, that time will prove it to
be well founded. In some governments men have
many allurements to office, exclusive of pecuniary
rewards — but from the nature of our government,
pecuniary reward is the only aliment to the inter-
ested passions which public men who are not vicious
can expect. If, then, it be essential to the prospei-
ous course of every government, that it shall be able
to command the services of its most able and most
virtuous citizens of every class, it follows, that the
compensations which our government allows ought to
be revised and materially increased. The character
and success of republican government appear abso-
lutely to depend on this policy.

Congress have repeatedly directed their attention
to the encouragement of manufactures, and have
no doubt promoted them in several branches. The
object is of too much importance not to assure a con-
tinuance of their efforts in every way which shall ap-
pear proper and conducive to the end. But in the
present state of our country, we cannot expect that
our progress, in some essential branches, will be as
expeditious as the public welfare demands, — par-
ticularly in reference to security and defence in time
of war. This reflection is the less pleasing when it
is remembered how large a proportion of our supply

2 22 Alexander Hamilton

the coiirse of our trade derives from a single nation.
It appears very desirable, that at least, with a view
to security and defence, some measures more effica-
cious than have heretofore been adopted should be
taken. As a general rule, manufactories carried on
upon public account are to be avoided. But every
general rule may admit of exceptions. Where the
state of things in our country leaves little expectation
that certain branches of manufacture will, for a great
(^' length of time, be sufficiently cultivated — when these
^^ are of a nature to be essential to the furnishing and

^ '^^ equipping of the troops and ships of war of which we

>^ stand in need — are not establishments on the public

account, to the extent of the public demand for supply,
recommended by very strong considerations of na-
tional policy? Ought our country to be dependent
in such cases upon foreign supply, precarious be-
cause liable to be interrupted? If the necessary
supplies ' should be procured in this mode, at great
expense — in time of peace — will not the security and
independence arising from it very amply compen-
sate? Institutions of this kind commensurate only
with our peace establishments, will in time of war
be easily extended in proportion to the public ex-
igencies, and they may even perhaps be rendered
contributary to the supply of our citizens at large,
so as greatly to mitigate the privation arising from
the interruption of trade.

The idea at least is worthy of the most serious

' Additional paragraph of Washington's first draft of speech of Dec.
7, 1796, now first printed from Hamilton's MSB.; see pp. 69, 70, and 74,
vol. xii., Writings of Washington.

Address 223

consideration. If adopted, the plan ought, of course,
to exclude all those branches which may be con-
sidered as already established in our country, and to
which the efforts of individuals appear already, or
likely to be, speedily adequate.

A reinforcement of the existing provisions for dis-
charging our public debt was mentioned in my ad-
dress at the opening of the last session. Congress
took some preliminary steps, the maturing of which
will no doubt engage their zealous attention during
the present. I will only add that it will afford me
a heartfelt satisfaction to concur in such auxiliary
measures as will ascertain to our country the pro-
spect of a speedy extinguishment of the debt. Pos-
terity may have cause to regret if, from any motive,
intervals of tranquillity are left unemployed for
accelerating this valuable end.

ADDRESS TO THE ELECTORS OF THE STATE

OF NEW YORK

1801.
Fellow-Citizens :

We lately addressed you on the subject of the
ensuing election for Governor and Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor— recommending to your support Stephen Van
Rensselaer and James Watson. Since that, we have
seen the address of our opponents, urging your
preference of George Clinton and Jeremiah Van
Rensselaer.

The whole tenor of our address carries with it the
evidence of a disposition to be temperate and liberal ;

224 Alexander Hamilton

to avoid giving occasion to mutual recrimination. It
would have been agreeable to us to have seen a like
disposition in our adversaries; but we think it can-
not be denied that their address manifests a different
one. It arraigns the principles of the Federalists
with extreme acrimony, and by the allusion to Great
Britain, in the preposterous figure of the mantle,
attributes to them a principle of action, which every
signer of the address knows to have no existence,
and which for its falsehood and malice merits indig-
nation and disdain.

So violent an attack upon our principles justifies
and calls for an exhibition of those of our opponents.
To your good sense, to your love of country, to your
regard for the welfare of yourself and families, the
comment is submitted.

The pernicious spirit which has actuated many
of the leaders of the party denominated anti-federal,
from the moment when our national Constitution
was first proposed down to the present period, has
not ceased to display itself in a variety of disgusting
forms. In proportion to the prospect of success it
has increased in temerity. Emboldened by a mo-
mentary triumph in the choice of our national Chief
Magistrate, it seems now to have laid aside all re-
serve, and begins to avow projects of disorganization,
with the sanction of the most respectable names of
the party, which before were merely the anonymous
ravings of incendiary newspapers.

This precipitation in throwing aside the mask will,
we trust, be productive of happy effects. It will
serve to show that the mischievous designs ascribed

Address 225

to the party have not been the effusions of male-
volence, the inventions of political rivalship, or the
visionary forebodings of an over-anxious zeal; but
that they have been just and correct inferences
from an accurate estimate of characters and prin-
ciples. It will serve to show that moderate men,
who have seen in our political struggles nothing more
than a competition for power and place, have been
deceived ; that in reality the foundations of society,
the essential interests of our nation, the dearest con-
cerns of individuals, are staked upon the eventful
contest. And by promoting this important dis-
covery, it may be expected to rally the virtuous and
the prudent of every description round a common
standard; to endeavor, by joint efforts, to oppose
mounds to that destructive torrent, which in its
distant murmuring seemed harmless, but in the por-
tentous roaring of its nearer approach, menaces our
country with all the horrors of revolutionary frenzy.

To what end, fellow-citizens, has your attention
been carried across the Atlantic, to the Revolution
of France, and to that fatal war of which it has been
the source? To what end are you told, that this is
the most interesting conflict man ever witnessed — ■
that it is a war of principles — a war between equal
and unequal rights — between republicanism and
monarchy — -between liberty and tyranny.

What is there in that terrific picture which you are
to admire or imitate? Is it the subversion of the
throne of the Bourbons, to make way for the throne
of the Bonaparte sf Is it the un distinguishing mas-
sacre in prisons and dungeons, of men, women, and

VOL. VIII.— 15.

226 Alexander Hamilton

children? Is it the sanguinary justice of revolu-
tionary tribunals, or the awful terrors of a guillo-
tine? Is it the rapid succession of revolution upon
revolution, erecting the transient power of one set
of men upon the tombs of another ? Is it the assas-
sinations which have been perpetrated, or the new
ones which are projected? Is it the open profession
of impiety in the public assemblies, or the ridiculous
worship of a Goddess of Reason, or the still con-
tinued substitution of decades to the Christian Sab-
bath? Is it the destruction of commerce, the ruin
of manufactures, the oppression of agriculture ? Or,
is it the pomp of war, the dazzling glare of splendid
victories, the bloodstained fields of Europe, the
smoking cinders of desolated cities, the afflicting
spectacle of millions precipitated from plenty and
comfort to beggary and misery? If it be none of
these things, what is it?

Perhaps it is the existing government of France,
of which your admiration is solicited?

Here, fellow-citizens, let us on our part invite you
to a solemn pause. Mark, we beesech you, carefully
mark, in this result, the fruit of those extravagant
and noxious principles which it is desired to trans-
plant into our happy soil.

Behold a consul for ten years elected, not by the
people, but by a conservatory Senate, self-created and
self-continued for life; a magistrate who, to the
plenitude of executive authority, adds the peculiar
and vast prerogative of an exclusive right to origi-
nate every law of the republic.

Behold a Legislature elected, not by the people, but

Address 227

by the same conservatory Senate, one branch for
fourteen, the other for ten years; one branch with a
right to debate the law proposed by the consul, but
not to propose ; another with right neither to debate
nor propose, but merely to assent or dissent, leaving
to the people nothing more than the phantom of
representation, or the useless privilege of designating
one tenth of their whole mass as candidates indis-
criminately for the officers of the State, according to
the option of the conservatory Senate.

Behold this magic lantern of republicanism; the
odious form of real despotism; garnished and de-
fended by the bayonets of more than five hundred
thousand men in disciplined array.

Do you desire an illustration of the practical effect
of this despotic system, read it in the last advices
from France. Read it in the exercise of a power by
the chief consul, recognized to belong to him by the
conservatory Senate, to banish indefinitely the citi-
zens of France without trial, without the formality
of a legislative act. Then say, where can you find
a more hideous despotism? Or, what ought ye to
think of those men who dare to recommend to you
as the Bible of your political creed, the principles of
a revolution, which in its commencement, in its
progress, in its termination (if termination it can
have, before it has overthrown the civilized world),
is only fitted to serve as a beacon to warn you to
shun the gulfs, the quicksands, and the rocks of
those enormous principles?

Surely ye will applaud neither the wisdom nor the
patriotism of men, who can wish you to exchange

228 Alexander Hamilton

the fair fabric of republicanism which you now
enjoy, modelled and decorated by the hand of
federalism, for that tremendous form of despotism
which has sprung up amidst the volcanic eruptions
of principles at war with all past and present ex-
perience, at war with the nature of man. *

Or, was the allusion to France and her Revolution, i
to the war of principles of which you have heard, .
intended to familiarize your ears to a war of arms,
as one of the blessings of the new order of things?
Facts, which cannot be mistaken, demonstrate that
in the early period of the French Revolution, it was
the plan of our opponents to engage us in the war as
associates of France. But at this late hour, when
even the pretence of supporting the cause of liberty
has vanished, when acquisition and aggrandizement
have manifestly become the only, the exclusive ob-
jects of this war, it was surely to have been expected
that we should have been left to retain the advan-
tage of a pacific policy.

If there are men who hope to gratify their ambi-
tion, their avarice, or their vengeance, by adding
this country to the league of northern powers, in the
fantastic purpose of an extension of neutral rights,
the great body of the people will hardly, we imagine,
see in this project benefits sufficiently solid and dur-
able to counterbalance the certain sacrifices of present
advantages, and the certain sufferings of positive
evils inseparable from a state of war.

Let us now attend to some other parts of this ex-
traordinary address.

We are told that there are many in the bosom of

Address 229

our country who have long aimed at unequal privi-
leges, and who have too well succeeded, by arrogat-
ing to themselves the right to be considered as the
only friends of the Constitution, the guardians of
order and religion, by the lavish abuse of their
opponents, and by representing opposition to par-
ticular plans of administration as hostility to the
government itself.

What is meant by this aiming at unequal privi-
leges ?

If we are to judge of the end by the means stated
to have been used, the charge amounts to this, that
the Federalists have sought to retain in their own
hands, by the suffrages of the people, the exercise of
the powers of the government.

Admitting the charge to be true, have not the
Anti-Federalists pursued exactly the same course?
Have they not labored incessantly to monopolize
the power of our national and State governments?
Whenever they have had it, have they not strained
every nerve to keep it? Why is it a greater crime
in the Federalists than in their rivals to aim at an
ascendant in the councils of our country?

It is true, as alleged, that the Federalists insisted
upon their superior claim to be considered as the
friends of our Constitution, and have imputed to
their adversaries improper and dangerous designs;
but it is equally true, that these have asserted a simi-
lar claim, have advanced the pretension of being the
only republicans and patriots, have charged their
opponents with being in league with Great Britain
to establish monarchy, have imputed to men of

230 Alexander Hamilton

unblemished characters for probity in high public
offices, corruption and peculation, and have per-
sisted in the foul charge after its falsity had been
ascertained by solemn public inquiry; and in their
wanton and distempered rage for calumny have not
scrupled to brand even a Washington as a tyrant, sl
conspirator, sl peculator.

It is also true, that the Federalists have repre-
sented the leaders of the other party as hostile to our
national Constitution; but it is not true that it was
because they have been unfriendly to particular plans
of its administration.

It is because, as a party, and with few exceptions,
they were violent opposers of the adoption of the
Constitution itself; predicted from it every possible
evil, and painted it in the blackest colors, as a mon-
ster of political deformity.

It is because the amendments subsequently made,
meeting scarcely any of the important objections
which were urged, leaving the structure of the gov-
ernment, and the mass and distribution of its powers
where they were, are too insignificant to be with any
sensible man a reason for being reconciled to the
system if he thought it originally bad.

It is because they have opposed not particular
plans of the administration, but the general course
of it, and almost all the measures of material conse-
quence, and this, too, not under one man or set of
men, but under all the successions of men.

It is because, as there have been no alterations of
the Constitution sufficient to change the opinion of
its merits, and as the practice under it has met with

Address 231

the severest reprobation of the party, there is no cir-
cumstance from which to infer that they can really
have been reconciled to it.

It is because the newspapers under their direction
have from time to time continued to decry the Con-
stitution itself.

It is because they have openly avowed their at-
tachment to the excessive principles of the French
Revolution, and to leading features in the crude
forms of government which have appeared only to
disappear; utterly inconsistent with the sober max-
ims upon which our federal edifice was reared, and
with essential parts in its structure. As specimens
of this, it is sufficient to observe that they have ap-
proved the unity of the legislative power in one
branch, and have been loud in their praises of
an executive directory — that five-headed monster of
faction and anarchy.

It is because they have repeatedly shown, and in
their present address again show, that they con-
template innovations in our public affairs, which,
without doubt, would disgrace and prostrate the
government.

On these various and strong grounds have the
Federalists imputed to their opponents disaffection
to the national Constitution. As yet they have no
reason to retract the charge. To future proofs of
repentance and reconciliation must an exculpation
be referred. The Anti-Federalists have acquired
the administration of the national government. Let
them show by a wise and virtuous management that
they are its friends, and they shall then have all the

232 Alexander Hamilton

credit of so happy a reformation ; but till then their
assertions cannot be received as proofs.

And if the views which the signers of the address
now boldly avow should unfortunately be those
which should regulate the future administration of
the government, the tokens of their amity would be
as pernicious as could possibly be the tokens of their
most deadly hatred.
, I They enumerate, as the crimes of the Federalists,
the funding system, the national debt, the taxes
which constitute the public revenue, the British
treaty, the federal city, the mint, a mausoleum, the
sedition law, and a standing army; and they tell us
in plain terms that these are '' abuses no longer to
be suffered."

Let it be observed in the first place that these cry-
ing sins of our government are not to be placed ex-
clusively to the account of the Federalists; that for
some of them the other party are chiefly responsible,
and that in others they have participated.

As to the federal city, it is not to be denied that
this was a favorite of the illustrious Washington.
But it is no less certain that it was warmly patron-
ized by Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Madison, and the great
majority of the members who at the time composed
the opposition in Congress, and who are now influ-
ential in the anti-federal party. It is also certain
that the measure has never been a favorite of a
majority of the federal party.

As to the mint, it was not at all a measure of party.
With slight diversities of opinion about some of the
details, it was approved by both parties.

Address 233

As to the mausoleum, it has not taken place at all.
The bill for erecting it was lost in the Senate, where
the Federalists have a decided majority; and, in-
stead of it, an appropriation of fifty thousand dollars
was made for erecting an equestrian statue, agreeably
to a resolution of Congress passed under the old Con-
federation. Is there an American who would refuse
this memorial of gratitude to the man who is the
boast of his country, the honor of his age ?

As to the funding system, it was thus far a measure
of both parties, that both agreed there should be a
funding system. In the formation of it the chief
points of difference were, ist, a discrimination be-
tween original holders and transferees of the public
debt; 2d, a provision for the general debt of the
Union, leaving to each State to make separate pro-
vision for its particular debt.

Happily for our country, by the rejection of the
first, which would have been an express violation of
contracts, the faith of the government was preserved,
its credit maintained and established.

Happily for our country, by not pursuing the last,
unity, simplicity, and energy were secured to our
fiscal system. The entanglements of fourteen con-
flicting systems of finance were avoided. The same
mass of debt was included in one general provision
instead of being referred to fourteen separate pro-
visions, more comprehensive justice was done, the
States which had made extraordinary exertions for
the support of the common cause were relieved from
the unequal pressure of burthens which must have
crushed them, and the people were saved from the

234 Alexander Hamilton

immense difference of expense between a collection of
the necessary revenues by one set of officers or by
fourteen different sets.

The truth, then, fellow-citizens, is this: — Both
parties agreed that there should be a funding system ;
and the particular plan which prevailed was most
agreeable to the contract of the government, most
conducive to general and equal justice among the
States and individuals, to order and efficiency in the
finances, to economy in the collection.

Ought not these ideas to have governed ? What is
meant by holding up the funding system as an abuse
no longer to be tolerated?

What is this funding system? It is nothing more
nor less than the pledging of adequate funds or revenues
for paying the interest and for the gradual redemption
of the principal of that very debt which was the
sacred price of independence. The country being
unable to pay off the principal, what better could
have been done ?

It is recollected, that long before otir revolution
most of the States had their funding systems. They
emitted their paper money, which is only another
phrase for certificates of debt; and they pledged
fimds for its redemption, which is but another phrase
for funding it. What, then, is there so terrible in
the idea of a funding system ? Those who may have
been accustomed under some of the State govern-
ments to gamble in the floating paper, and when
they had monopolized a good quantity of it among
themselves at low prices, to make partial legislative
provisions for the payment of the particular kinds,

Address 235

would very naturally be displeased with a fixed and
permanent system, which would give to the evi-
dences of debt a stable value, and lop off the oppor-
tunities for gambling speculations; but men who
are sensible of the pernicious tendency of such
a state of things, will rejoice in a plan which was
designed to produce, and has produced, a contrary
result.

What have been the effects of this system? An
extension of commerce and manufactures, the rapid
growth of our cities and towns, the consequent pro-
sperity of agriculture, and the advancement of the
farming interest. All this was effected by giving
life and activity to a capital in the public obligations,
which was before dead, and by converting it into a
powerful instrument of mercantile and other indus-
trious enterprise.

We make these assertions boldly, because the fact
is exemplified by experience, and is obvious to
all discerning men. Our opponents in their hearts
know it to be so.

As to the public debt ; the great mass of it was not \
created by the Federalists peculiarly. It was con-
tracted by all who were engaged in our councils dur-
ing our revolutionary war. The Federalists have
only had a principal agency in providing for it. No
man can impute that to them as a crime who is not
ready to avow the fraudulent and base doctrine, that
it is wiser and better to cheat than to pay the credit-
ors of a nation.

It is a fact certain and notorious, that under the
administration of the first Secretary of the Treasury

236 Alexander Hamilton

ample provision was made, not only for paying the
interest of this debt, but for extinguishing the prin-
cipal in a moderate term of years.

But it is alleged that this debt has been increased,
and is increasing.

On this point we know that malcontent individ-
uals make the assertion and exhibit statements in-
tended to prove it. But this we also know, that a
committee of the House of Representatives, particu-
larly charged with the inquiry, have stated and re-
ported the contrary; and we think that more credit
is due to their representation than to that of in-
dividuals, especially as nothing is easier than in a
matter of this sort to make plausible statements,
which, though utterly false, cannot be detected except
by those who possess all the materials of a complex
calculation, who are qualified, and who will take the
pains to make it.

We know likewise that extraordinary events have
compelled our government to extraordinary expend-
itures— an Indian war, for some time disastrous, but
terminated on principles likely to give durable tran-
quillity to our frontier; two insurrections fomented
by the opposition to the government ; the hostilities
of a foreign power, encouraged by the undissembled
sympathies of the same opposition, which obliged the
government to arm for defence and security. These
things have retarded the success of the efficacious
measures which have been adopted for the discharge
of our debt; measures which, with a peaceable and
orderly course of things, accelerated by the rapid
growth of our country, are sufficient in a few years,

Address 237

without any new expedient, to exonerate it from the
whole of its present debt.

These, fellow-citizens, are serious truths, well
known to most of our opponents, but which they
shamefully endeavor to disfigure and disguise.

As to taxes, they are evidently inseparable from
government. It is impossible without them to pay
the debts of the nation, to protect it from foreign
danger, or to secure individuals from lawless violence
and rapine. It is always easy to assert that they
are heavier than they ought to be, always difficult to
refute the assertion, which cannot ever be attempted
without a critical review of the whole course of pub-
lic measures. This gives an immense advantage to
those who make a trade of complaint and censure.

But, fellow-citizens, it is in our power to state to
you in relation to this subject, and upon good in-
formation, one material fact.

There is, perhaps, no item in the catalogue of our
taxes which has been more unpopular than that
which is called the direct tax.

This tax may emphatically be placed to the ac-
count of the opposite party; it was always insisted
upon by them as preferable to taxes of the indirect
kind. And it is a truth capable of full proof, that
Mr. Madison, second in the confidence of the anti-
federal party, the confidential friend of Mr. Jeffer-
son, and now Secretary of State by his nomination,
was the proposer of this tax. This was done in a
committee of the last House of Representatives, of
which he was a member, was approved by that com-
mittee, and referred to the late Secretary of the

238 Alexander Hamilton

Treasury, Mr. Wolcott, with instructions to prepare
a plan as to the mode. Let it be added that it was a
principle of the federal party never to resort to this
j species of tax but in time of war or hostility with a
) foreign power ; that it was in such a time when they
did resort to it, and that the occasion ceasing by the
prospect of an accommodation, it has been resolved
by them not to renew the tax.

As to the British treaty, it is sufficient to remind
, you of the extravagant predictions of evil persons of
' its ratification, and to ask you in what have they
, been realized? You have seen our peace preserved,
you have seen our western posts surrendered, our
commerce proceed with success in its wonted chan-
nels, and our agriculture flourish to the extent of
every reasonable wish ; and you have been witnesses
to none of the mischiefs which were foretold. You
will, then, conclude with us that the clamors against
this treaty are the mere ebullitions of ignorance, of
prejudice, and of faction.

As to the sedition law, we refer you to the debates
in Congress for the motives and nature of it. More
would prolong too much this reply, already longer
than we could wish.

We will barely say that the most essential object
of this act is to declare the courts of the United
States competent to the cognizance of those slanders
against the principal officers and departments of the
Federal Government, which at common law are pun-
ishable as libels, with the liberal and important miti-
gation of allowing the truth of an accusation to be
given in exoneration of the accuser. What do you

Address 239

see in this to merit the execrations which have been
bestowed on the measure?

As to a standing army, there is none, except four
small regiments of infantry, insufficient for the serv-
ice of guards in the numerous posts of our immense
frontiers stretching from Niagara to the borders of
Florida, and two regiments of artillery, which oc-
cupy in the same capacity the numerous fortifications
along our widely extended sea-coast. What is there
in this to affright or disgust? If these corps are
to be abolished, substitutes must be found in the
militia. If the experiment shall be made, it is to
foretell that it will prove not a measure of economy,
but a heavy bill of additional cost, and like all
other visionary schemes will be productive only of
repentance and a return to a plan injudiciously
renounced.

This exposition of the measures which have been
represented to you as abuses no longer to be suffered
(mark the strength of the phrase) will, we trust,
serve to satisfy you of the violence and absurdity
of those crude notions which govern our opposers,
if we beheve them to be sincere. Happily for our
country, however, there has just beamed a ray of
hope that these violent and absurd notions will not
form the rule of conduct of the person whom the
party have recently elevated to the head of our
national affairs.

In the speech of the new President upon assuming
the exercise of his office, we find among the articles
of his creed, — ''the honest payment of our debt, and
sacred preservation of the public faith/*

240 Alexander Hamilton

The funding system, the national debt, the British
treaty, are not therefore in his conception abuses,
which, if no longer to be tolerated, would be of
course to be abolished.

But we think ourselves warranted to derive from
the same source, a condemnation still more exten-
sive of the opinions of our adversaries. The speech
characterizes our present government ''as a republi-
can in the full tide of successful experiment.'" Suc-
cess in the experiment of a government, is success in
the practice of it, and this is but another phrase for
an administration, in the main, wise and good. That
administration has been hitherto in the hands of the
Federalists.

Here then, fellow-citizens, is an open and solemn
protest against the principles and opinions of our
opponents, from a quarter which as yet they dare
not arraign.

In referring to this speech, we think it proper to
make a public declaration of our approbation of its
contents. We view it as virtually a candid retrac-
tion of past misapprehensions, and a pledge to the
community, that the new President will not lend
himself to dangerous innovations, but in essential
points will tread in the steps of his predecessors.

In doing this, he prudently anticipates the loss of
a great portion of that favor which has elevated him
to his present station. Doubtless, it is a just fore-
sight. Adhering to the professions he has made, it
will not be long before the body of the Anti- Federal-
ists will raise their croaking and ill-omened voices
against him. But in the talents, the patriotism, and

Address 241

the firmness of the Federalists, he will find more than
an equivalent for all that he shall lose.

All those of whatever party who may desire to
support the moderate views exhibited in the presi-
dential speech, will unite against the violent projects
of the men who have addressed you in favor of Mr.
Clinton, and against a candidate who, in all past ex-
perience, has evinced that he is likely to be a fit in-
strument of these projects.

Fellow-citizens, we beseech you to consult your
experience and not listen to tales of evil, which exist
only in the language, not even in the imaginations,
of those who deal them out. This experience will
tell you, that our opposers have been uniformly mis-
taken in their views of our Constitution, of its ad-
ministration, in all the judgments which they have
pronounced of our public affairs ; and, consequently,
that they are unfaithful or incapable advisers. It
will teach you that you have eminently prospered
under the system of public measures pursued and
supported by the Federalists. In vain are you told
that you owe your prosperity to your own industry,
and to the blessings of Providence. To the latter,
doubtless, you are primarily indebted. You owe to
it, among other benefits, the Constitution you enjoy,
and the wise administration of it by virtuous men as
its instruments. You are likewise indebted to your
own industry. But has not your industry found
aliment and incitement in the salutary operation of
your government — in the preservation of order at
home — in the cultivation of peace abroad — in the
invigoration of confidence in pecuniary dealings —

VOL. VIII, — 16.

242 Alexander Hamilton

in the increased energies of credit and commerce — in
the extension of enterprise, ever incident to a good
government well administered? Remember what
your situation was immediately before the establish-
ment of the present Constitution? Were you then
deficient in industry more than now ? If not, why were
you not equally prosperous? Plainly, because your
industry had not at that time the vivifying influences
of an efficient and well-conducted government.

There is one more particular in the address which
we cannot pass over in silence, though, to avoid
being tedious, we must do little more than mention
it. It is a comparison between the administration
of the former and present governors of this State, on
the point of economy, accompanied with the observa-
tion, that the former had shown an anxious solicitude
to exempt you from taxation.

The answer to this is, that under the administra-
tion of Mr. Clinton the State possessed large resources,
which were the substitute for taxation — the duties
of impost, the proceeds of confiscated property, and
immense tracts of new land, which, if they had been
providently disposed of, would have long deferred
the necessity of taxation. That this was not done,
Mr. Clinton, as one of the commissioners of the land
office, is in a principal degree responsible.

Under the administration of Mr. Jay, the natural
increase of the State has unavoidably augmented
the expense of the government, and the appropria-
tions of large sums, in most of which all parties have
concurred, to a variety of objects of public utility and
necessity, have so far diminished the funds of the

Address 243

State as in the opinion of all parties to have required
a resort to taxes.

The principal of these objects have been: i. The
erection of fortifications, and the purchase of cannon,
arms, and other warlike implements for the pur-
pose of defence. 2. The building and maintenance of
the State prisons, in the laudable experiment of an
amelioration of our penal code. 3. The purchase
from Indians of lands which, though resold, have not
yet been productive of revenue. 4. The payment of
dower to the widows of persons whose estates have
been confiscated. 5. Large appropriations for the
benefit of common schools, roads, and bridges. 6.
The erection of an arsenal and public offices in the
city of Albany.

Hence it is evident that the difference which has
been remarked to you in respect to taxation, has pro-
ceeded from a difference of circumstances, not from
the superior providence or economy of the former,
or from the improvidence or profusion of the existing
administration. Our opponents may be challenged
to bring home to Mr. Jay the proofs of prodigality,
and they may be told that the purity and integrity
of his conduct in relation to the public property have
never for a moment been drawn into question.

We forbear to canvass minutely the personal-
ities in which our adversaries have indulged. 'T is
enough for us, that they acknowledge our candidate
to possess the good qualities which we have ascribed
to him. If he has inherited a large estate, 't is cer-
tainly no crime.

'T is to his honor that his benevolence is as large

244 Alexander Hamilton

as his estate. Let his numerous tenants be his wit-
nesses : — attached as they are to him, not by the ties
of dependence (for the greater part of them hold their
lands in fee simple and upon easy rents), but by the
ties of affection, by those gentle and precious cords
which link gratitude to kindness. Let the many in-
digent and distressed who have been gladdened by
the benign influence of his bounty, be his witnesses.
And let every reflecting man well consider, whether
the people are likely to suffer because the ample for-
tune of a virtuous and generous Chief Magistrate
places him beyond the temptation of a job, for the
accimiulation of wealth.

We shall not inquire how ample may be the do-
mains, how productive the revenues, how numerous
the dependents of Mr. Clinton, nor how his ample
domains may have been acquired. 'T is enough for
us to say, that if Mr. Van Rensselaer is rich, Mr.
Clinton is not poor, and that it is at least as innocent
in the former to have been bom to opulence, as in
the latter to have attained to it by means of the ad-
vantages of the first office of the State, long, very
long enjoyed, for three years at least too long, be-
cause, by an unlawful tenure, contrary to a known
majority of suffrages.

We shall not examine how likely it is that a man
considerably past the meridian of life, and debilitated
by infirmities of body, will be a more useful and
efficient governor, and more independent of the aid
of friends and relations, than a man of acknowledged
good sense, of mature years, in the full vigor of life,
and in the full energy of his faculties.

Address 245

We shall not discuss how far it is probable that the
radical antipathy of Mr. Clinton to the vital parts of
our National Constitution has given way to the little
formal amendments which have since been adopted.
We are glad to be assured that it has. It gives us
pleasure to see proselytes to the truth; nor shall we
be over-curious to inquire how men get right if we
can but discover that they are right. If, happily,
the possession of the power of our once-detested gov-
ernment shall be a talisman to work the conversion
of all its enemies, we shall be ready to rejoice that
good has come out of evil.

But we dare not too far indulge this pleasing hope.
We know that the adverse party has its Dantons,
and its Robespierres, as well as its Brissots and its
Rolands ; and we look forward to the time when the
sects of the former will endeavor to confound the
latter and their adherents, together with the Feder-
alists, in promiscuous ruin.

In regard to these sects, which compose the pith
and essence of the anti-federal party, we believe it
to be true that the contest between us is indeed a
war of principles — a war between tyranny and lib- )|
erty, but not between monarchy and republicanism.
It is a contest between the tyranny of Jacobinism,
which confounds and levels every thing, and the
mild reign of rational liberty, which rests on the basis
of an efficient and well-balanced government, and
through the medium of stable laws shelters and pro-
tects the life, the reputation, the civil and religious
rights of every member of the community.

'T is against these sects that all good men should

246 Alexander Hamilton

form an indissoluble league. To resist and frus-
trate their machinations is alike essential to every
prudent and faithful administration of our govern-
ment, whoever may be the depositories of the power.

EXAMINATION OF JEFFERSON'S MESSAGE
TO CONGRESS OF DECEMBER 7, 1801 '

NO. I

December 17, 1801.

Instead of delivering a speech to the Houses of
Congress, at the opening of the present session, the
President has thought fit to transmit a Message.
Whether this has proceeded from pride or from hu-
mility, from a temperate love of reform or from a
wild spirit of innovation, is submitted to the con-
jectures of the curious. A single observation shall
be indulged — since all agree that he is unlike his
predecessors in essential points, it is a mark of con-
sistency to differ from them in matters of form.

Whoever considers the temper of the day must
be satisfied that this message is likely to add much
to the popularity of our Chief Magistrate. It con-
forms, as far as would be tolerated at this early stage
of our progress in political perfection, to the be-
witching tenets of that illuminated doctrine, which
promises man, erelong, an emancipation from the

' This paper and that which precedes it really constitute a defence of
the Federalist party and an elaborate and bitter criticism of their
opponents. As specimens of controversial political writing, they take
very high rank, and are admirable examples of Hamilton's power and
force in this field of literature.

Jefferson's Message 247

burdens and restraints of government ; giving a fore-
taste of that pure felicity which the apostles of this
doctrine have predicted. After having, with infinite
pains and assiduity, formed the public taste for this
species of fare, it is certainly right, in those whom
the people have chosen for their caterers, to be at-
tentive to the gratification of that taste. And
should the viands, which they may offer, prove bane-
ful poisons instead of wholesome aliments, the justi-
fication is both plain and easy — Good patriots must
at all events please the people. But those whose
patriotism is of the old school, who differ so widely
from the disciples of the new creed, that they would
rather risk incurring the displeasure of the people by
speaking unpalatable truths, than betray their in-
terest by fostering their prejudices, will never be
deterred by an impure tide of popular opinion from
honestly pointing out the mistakes or the faults of
weak or wicked men, who may have been selected
as guardians of the public weal.

The message of the President, by whatever mo-
tives it may have been dictated, is a performance
which ought to alarm all who are anxious for the
safety of our government, for the respectability and
welfare of our nation. It makes, or aims at making,
a most prodigal sacrifice of constitutional energy, of
sound principle, and of public interest, to the popu-
larity of one man.

The first thing in it, which excites our surprise, is
the very extraordinary position, that though Tripoli
had declared war in form against the United States,
and had enforced it by actual hostility, yet that

248 Alexander Hamilton

there was not power, for want of the sanction of Con-
gress y to capture and detain her cruisers with their
crews.

When the newspapers informed us that one of
these cruisers, after being subdued in a bloody con-
flict, had been liberated and permitted quietly to
return home, the imagination was perplexed to divine
the reason. The conjecture naturally was, that pur-
suing a policy too refined perhaps for barbarians, it
was intended, by that measure, to give the enemy a
strong impression of our magnanimity and humanity.
No one dreamt of a scruple as to the right to seize and
detain the armed vessel of an open and avowed foe,
vanquished in battle. The enigma is now solved,
and we are presented with one of the most singu-
lar paradoxes ever advanced by a man claiming
the character of a statesman. When analyzed, it
amounts to nothing less than this, that between two
nations there may exist a state of complete war on
the one side — of peace on the other.

War, of itself, gives to the parties a mutual right to
kill in battle, and to capture the persons and prop-
erty of each other. This is a rule of natural law ; a
necessary and inevitable consequence of the state of
war. This state between two nations is completely
produced by the act of one — it requires no concurrent
act of the other. It is impossible to conceive the
idea, that one nation can be in full war with another,
and this other not in the same state with respect to
its adversary. The moment that two nations are, in
an absolute sense, at war, the public force of each
may exercise every act of hostility, which the general

Jefferson's Message 249

laws of war authorize, against the persons and prop-
erty of the other. As it respects this conclusion,
the distinction between offensive and defensive war
makes no difference. That distinction is only ma-
terial to discriminate the aggressing nation from
that which defends itself against attack. The war
is offensive on the part of the state which makes it ;
on the opposite -side it is defensive; but the rights of
both, as to the measure of hostility, are equal.

It will be readily allowed, that the constitution of
a particular country may limit the organ charged
with the direction of the public force, in the use or
application of that force, even in time of actual war ;
but nothing short of the strongest negative words,
of the most express prohibitions, can be admitted to
restrain that organ from so employing it, as to de-
rive the fruits of actual victory, by making prisoners
of the persons and detaining the property of a van-
quished enemy. Our Constitution, happily, is not
chargeable with so great an absurdity. The framers
of it would have blushed at a provision, so repugnant
to good sense, so inconsistent with national safety
and convenience. That instrument has only provided
affirmatively, that, " The Congress shall have power
to declare war"; the plain meaning of which is, that
it is the peculiar and exclusive province of Congress,
when the nation is at peace, to change that state into
a state of war; whether from calculations of policy,
or from provocations or injuries received; in other
words, it belongs to Congress only, to go to war. But
when a foreign nation declares or openly and avow-
edly makes war upon the United States, they are

250 Alexander Hamilton

then by the very fact already at war, and any de-
claration on the part of Congress is nugatory; it
is at least unnecessary. This inference is clear in
principle, and has the sanction of established prac-
tice. It is clear in principle, because it is self-
evident, that a declaration by one nation against
another, produces at once a complete state of war
between both, and that no declaration on the other
side can at all vary their relative situation; and in
practice, it is well known that nothing is more com-
mon than when war is declared by one party, to
prosecute mutual hostilities without a declaration
by the other.

The doctrine of the message includes the strange
absurdity, that without a declaration of war by Con-
gress, our public force may destroy the life but may
not restrain the liberty or seize the property of an
enemy. This was exemplified in the very instance
of the Tripolitan corsair. A number of her crew
were slaughtered in the combat, and after she was
subdued, she was set free with the remainder. But
it may perhaps be said that she was the assailant,
and that resistance was an act of mere defence and
self-preservation. Let us then pursue the matter a
step further. Our ships had blockaded the Tripoli-
tan admiral in the Bay of Gibraltar ; suppose he had
attempted to make his way out, without first firing
upon them; if permitted to do it, the blockade was a
farce ; if hindered by force, this would have amounted
to more than a mere act of defence ; and if a combat
had ensued, we should then have seen a perfect il-
lustration of the unintelligible right, to take the life

Jefferson*s Message 251

but not to abridge the liberty or capture the prop-
erty of an enemy. Let us suppose an invasion of
our territory, previous to a declaration of war by
Congress. The principle avowed in the message
would authorize our troops to kill those of the in-
vader, if they should come within the reach of their
bayonets, perhaps to drive them into the sea, and
drown them; but not to disable them from doing
harm, by the milder process of making them prison-
ers and sending them into confinement. Perhaps it
may be replied that the same end would be an-
swered by disarming, and leaving them to starve.
The merit of such an argument would be complete
by adding that, should they not be famished before
the arrival of their ships with a fresh supply of arms,
we might then, if able, disarm them a second time,
and send them on board their fleet, to return safely
home.

The inconvenience of the doctrine in practice is
not less palpable than its folly in theory. In every
case it presents a most unequal warfare. In the in-
stance which has occurred, the vanquished bar-
barian got off with the loss of his guns. Had he
been victorious, those Americans, whose lives might
have been spared, would have been doomed to wear
out a miserable existence in slavery and chains.
Substantial benefits would have rewarded his suc-
cess; while on our side, life, liberty, and property
were put in jeopardy for an empty triumph. This,
however, presents a partial inconvenience — cases
may arise in which evils of a more serious and com-
prehensive nature would be the fruits of this visionary

252 Alexander Hamilton

and fantastical principle. Suppose that, in the re-
cess of Congress, a foreign maritime power should
unexpectedly declare war against the United States,
and send a fleet and army to seize Rhode Island, in
order from thence to annoy our trade and our sea-
^ port towns. Till the Congress should assemble and
declare war, which would require time, our ships
might, according to the hypothesis of the message,
be sent by the President to fight those of the enemy
as often as they should be attacked, but not to cap-
ture and detain them; if beaten, both vessels and
crews would be lost to the United States; if success-
ful, they could only disarm those they had overcome,
and must suffer them to return to the place of com-
mon rendezvous, there to equip anew, for the pur-
pose of resuming their depredations on our towns
and our trade.

Who could restrain the laugh of derision at posi-
tions so preposterous, were it not for the reflection
that in the first magistrate of our country they cast
a blemish on otir national character ? What will the
world think of the fold when such is the shepherd ?

Lucius Crassus.

NO. II

December 21, 1801.

The next most prominent feature in the message
is the proposal to abandon at once all the internal
revenue of the country. The motives avowed for
this astonishing scheme are, that "there is reasonable
ground of confidence that this part of the revenue
may now be safely dispensed with ; that the remain-

Jefferson's Message 253

ing sources will be sufficient to provide for the sup-
port of government, to pay the interest of the public
debt, and to discharge the principal in shorter periods
than the laws or the general expectation had contem-
plated; and that though wars and untoward events
might change this prospect of things, and call for
expenses which the impost could not meet, yet that
sound principles would not justify our taxing the in-
dustry of our fellow-citizens to accumulate treasure
for wars to happen we knew not when, and which
might not perhaps happen but from the temptations
offered by that treasure."

If we allow these to be more than ostensible mo-
tives, we shall be driven to ascribe this conduct to a
deficiency of intellect, and to an ignorance of our
financial arrangements, greater than could have been
suspected ; if but ostensible, it is then impossible to
trace the suggestion to any other source than the
culpable desire of gaining or securing popularity at
an immediate expense of public utility, equivalent,
on a pecuniary scale, to a million ' of dollars annu-
ally, and at the greater expense of a very serious
invasion of our system of public credit.

That these at least are the certain consequences of
the measure, shall be demonstrated by arguments
which are believed to be unanswerable.

To do this the more effectually, it is necessary to
premise that some of the revenues now proposed to

^ This is taken as a rotind number. The present net product, includ-
ing the duties on stamps, seems to be between eight and nine hundred
thousand. Very speedily, by the natural progress of the country, they
would amount to a million, and soon after exceed it. A million there'
fore is a moderate ratio.

254 Alexander Hamilton

be relinquished are, with every solemnity of law,
pledged for paying the interest and redeeming the
principal of our public debt, foreign and domestic.
As to the interest, and such parts of the principal as
by the original constitution of the debts are payable
by annual instalments, the appropriation is absolute.
As to the residue, it is qualified. On the 3d of
March, 1795, was passed an act of Congress which
forms a main pillar in the fabric of our public debt;
which, maturing and perfecting the establishment of
a sinking fund, endeavors, with peculiar solicitude,
to render it adequate, effectual, and inviolable. By
the 8th section of this act it is provided, "That all
surpluses of the revenue, which shall remain at the
end of any year, and which at the next session of
Congress shall not be otherwise appropriated or re-
served by law, shall ipso facto become a part of the
Sinking Fund/' This fund, by other provisions of
the same act, is vested in commissioners in trust, to
be applied to the redemption of the debt, by reim-
bursement or by purchase, until the whole shall be
extinguished; and the faith of the United States is
expressly engaged, that the monies which are to
constitute the fund shall inviolably remain so ap-
propriated and vested, until the redemption of the
debt shall be completely effected.

The simple statement of these provisions goes far
to confirm the character which we have given to
the proposition. But a distinct examination of the
reasons by which it is supported, will, when taken in
connection with those provisions, place beyond doubt
its absurd and pernicious tendency.

Jefferson's Message 255

The first inducement offered for relinquishing the
internal revenue, is a reasonable ground of confidence
that it may safely be dispensed with.

When it is considered that we are in the very crisis
of an important change of situation ; passing from a
state in which neutrality had procured to our com-
merce, and to the revenues depending on it, a great
artificial increase — with good reason to look for a
diminution, and without satisfactory data to enable
us to fix the extent of this diminution, — can any
thing be more rash, more empirical, than voluntarily
to abandon a valuable and growing branch of income
of which we are already in possession? Can it be
said that merely " a reasonable ground of confidence,"
is a sufficient warrant for so important a surrender?
Surely we ought to have been told that there was at
least a moral certainty of the fact. But even this
would not have been deemed enough by a prudent
statesman. Nothing less than experimental certainty
ought to have been relied upon. There was no pres-
sure of circumstances making it proper to precipitate
the measure. It would have been ridiculous to
pretend that the burden is so heavy, as to demand
immediate relief; and without this incentive to re-
linquishment, experience ought undoubtedly to have
been taken as the only fit and sure guide.

Not only is it problematical what the present
duties on imports will for succeeding years produce;
but it is in a degree questionable, whether it may
not be found necessary to reduce the rates. That
they are now high, when compared with the com-
mercial capital of our country, is not to be denied,

256 Alexander Hamilton

and whether they may not be found too high for a
beneficial course of our trade, is yet to be decided by
experiment. The latter augmentations of the rates
of duty were made at times and under circumstances
in the situations of this and of other countries, which
forbid us to regard past experience as conclusive on
the point.

Should it be said in answer, that the revenues can
hereafter be renewed, if on trial it shall be found that
they have been prematurely abandoned, the decisive
reply is, that this is to invert the natural order of just
reasoning. Were it now the question, whether such
revenues should be created, in anticipation of a pos-
sible deficiency, the correct answer would be, let
experiment first ascertain the necessity: as they
already exist, on a question to abolish them, the
answer equally ought to be, let experience first show
them to be unnecessary.

But how can they be unnecessary? Let us grant
that the remaining sources will be equal to the pur-
poses enumerated in the message, does it follow that
it will not still be wise to retain the internal revenue ?
Is it not desirable that government should have it
in its power to discharge the debt faster than may
have been contemplated? Is not this a felicity in
our situation which ought to be improved ; a precious
item in the public fortune which ought not rashly to
be squandered? But it is not even true that the
laws have exclusively contemplated a definite period
for the ultimate redemption of the entire debt.
They have only made a determinate provision for its
extinguishment, at all events, within a given term of

Jefferson's Message 257

years. But, anxious to shorten the period, they, in
the clause which has been quoted respecting the
surpluses of revenue, have made an auxiliary pro-
vision for the purpose of abridging that term. The
message, while it goes to impair the efficacy of the
principal provision, proposes formally to renounce
the auxiliary, and thus to disappoint the provident
care of the laws to accelerate the discharge of the
debt.

How is this reconcilable with the wanton and un-
just clamors heretofore vented against those who
projected and established our present system of pub-
lic credit ; charging them with a design to perpetuate
the debt, under the pretext that a public debt was a
public blessing? It is not to be forgotten, that in
these clamors Mr. Jefferson liberally participated!
Now, it seems, the tone is entirely changed. The
past administrations, who had so long been calum-
niated by the imputation of that pernicious design,
are of a sudden discovered to have done too much
for the speedy discharge of the debt, and its duration
is to be prolonged, by throwing away a part of the
fund destined for its prompt redemption. Wonder-
ful union of consistency and wisdom!

Before we yield our approbation to the proposal,
we ought to have a guaranty for the continuance of
our peace, long enough to give effect to the leisurely
operation of that residue of the fund which it is in-
tended to retain ; else war, which never fails to bring
with it an accumulation of debt, may intervene, and
we may then rapidly hasten to that period when the
exigencies of government may render it necessary

VOL. VIII. — 17.

258 Alexander Hamilton

to appropriate too large a portion of the earnings
of labor. To guard against so unfortunate a result,
towards which there is always too great a tendency
in the affairs of nations, our past administrations
have evinced a deep foresight, and exercised a truly
patriotic care. Unhappy will it be, if any succeed-
ing projector shall be permitted to frustrate their
salutary plan.

It has been seen, that the message anticipates and
attempts to answer objections to the dereliction of
revenue: it is said, that "sound principles will not
permit us to tax the industry of our citizens to ac-
cumulate treasure for wars to happen we know not
when, and which might not perhaps happen but for
the temptations offered by that treasure." Unless,
however, the accumulation of treasure be the neces-
sary consequence of retaining the revenue, this argu-
ment is evidently futile. But the President had only
to open our statute book to learn, that this conse-
quence is chimerical. All future surpluses of re-
venue being already eventually appropriated to the
discharge of the public debt, it follows that till the
whole debt shall have been extinguished, there could
be no accumulation of treasure — no spoil from that
source to tempt the rapacity of a greedy invader.
Here we fix the charge of ignorance of our financial
arrangements; to which there can be no alternative
but a deliberate design to delude the people. Be-
tween the two, let the worshippers of the idol make

their option.

Lucius Crassus.

Jefferson's Message 259

NO. Ill

December 24, 1801.

Had our laws been less provident than they have
been, yet must it give us a very humble idea of the
talents of our President as a statesman, to find him
embarrassed between an absolute abandonment of
revenue, and an inconvenient accumulation of treas-
ure. Pursuing the doctrine professed by his sect,
that our public debt is a national curse, which cannot
too promptly be removed, and adhering to the assur-
ance which he has virtually given,' that a sponge,
the favorite instrument, shall not be employed for the
purpose, how has it happened that he should have
overlooked the simple and obvious expedient of
using the supposed excess of income as a remedy for
so great a mischief ?

After all we have heard in times past, it would ill
become either the head or any member of the ortho-
dox sect to contend, that a too rapid reimbursement
of the debt might be attended with evils. In cour-
tesy, however, this shall be supposed to be urged by
some new convert, who has not entirely shaken off
the prejudices of former modes of thinking; and it
shall be examined, whether this argument will afford
a justification of the measure recommended.

It shall not be denied, that the immediate pay-
ment of our whole debt, if practicable, would be
likely to be injurious in various ways. It would, in
the first instance, produce a money-plethora (if the

' One of the essential principles of government is," the honest payment
of our debts and the sacred preservation of the public faith.'* — Inaugural
Speech.

26o Alexander Hamilton

phrase may be allowed) , which experience has shown
to be inauspicious to the energies, and especially to
the morality and industry, of a nation. The quick
efflux of this money to pay a considerable part of
the debt in the hands of foreigners, and to procure
from abroad the means of gratifying an increased
extravagance, would, after some time, substitute a
too great vacuity to a too great fulness, leaving us
to struggle with the bad habits incident to the latter
state, and with the embarrassments of a defective
circulation. To these, other reasons might be added,
which, though equally just and solid, are omitted as
being more liable to dispute.

Though an extreme case is here presented, the im-
mediate reimbursement of the entire debt, yet it
must be admitted that the same considerations are
applicable in a less degree to a summary or very
rapid repayment by large instalments. But the an-
swer to all this is, that it would have been full time
to adopt precautionary measures against evils f'-om
such a source, when experience has realized the
danger. Till such time it is certainly the highest
wisdom to continue the employment of a fund which
is already provided, and without overburdening the
people, for the all-important purpose of exonerating
our nation from debt, and of placing it in a condi-
tion, with competent resources to meet future con-
tingencies which may threaten its safety. On the
other hand, is it not a mark of the highest impro-
vidence and folly, to throw away an important part
of this fund, on the mere speculation that it may
possibly be superfluous?

Jefferson's Message 261

But admitting it to be clearly ascertained, that the
fund is greater than is requisite to extinguish the debt
with convenient celerity, does it follow that the ex-
cess, if retained, must be suffered to accumulate, and
that no different method could have been found to
employ it which would have been productive of ade-
quate utility?

Whatever diversity of opinion there may be with
regard to military and naval preparations, for the
defence and security of the country, there are some
things in which all well-informed and reflecting men
unite. In order that upon the breaking out of a
war there may be a sufficient supply of warlike im-
plements, together with the means of speedily
creating a navy, arsenals, foundries, dock-yards,
magazines (especially of materials for the construction
and equipment of ships), are by all deemed eligible
objects of public care. To provide for these objects
upon a competent, though moderate scale, will be
attended with expense so considerable, as to leave
nothing to spare from the amount of our present
income. To persons unacquainted with the subject,
the quantities of several articles on hand may ap-
pear ample ; but to good judges there is hardly any
one class of supplies which will not be thought to
require much augmentation. As far as a navy is
concerned, the deficiency is palpable.

If dock-yards are to be established in earnest, they
ought certainly to be well protected. For this pur-
pose, fortifications of a substantial and durable
nature, very different from the temporary shifts
hitherto adopted, ought to be erected. And if the

262 Alexander Hamilton

President will inquire into the cost of even these
trifling constructions, in the instances where they
have been managed with all practicable economy, he
will become convinced that the erection of proper
works would call for an expenditure forbidding the

* supposition of a superfluity of revenue.

In addition to objects of national security, there
are many purposes of great public utility to which
the revenues in question might be applied. The im-
provement of the communications between the dif-
ferent parts of our country is an object well worthy
of the national purse, and one which would abun-
dantly repay to labor the portion of its earnings,
which may have been borrowed for the purpose. To
provide roads and bridges is within the direct pur-
view of the Constitution. In many parts of the
country, especially in the Western Territory, a
matter in which the Atlantic States are equally in-
terested, aqueducts and canals would also be fit sub-
jects of pecuniary aid, from the general government.
In France, England, and other parts of Europe,
institutions exist supported by public contributions',
which eminently promote agriculture and the arts.
Such institutions merit imitation by our govern-

. ment; they are of the number of those which di-
rectly and sensibly recompense labor for what it

. lends to their agency.

To suggestions of the last kind, the adepts of the
new school have a ready answer: Industry will suc-
ceed and prosper in proportion as it is left to the exer-
tions of individual enterprise. This favorite dogma,
when taken as a general rule, is true; but as an

Jefferson*s Message 263

exclusive one, it is false, and leads to error in the
administration of public affairs. In matters of in-
dustry, human enterprise ought, doubtless, to be
left free in the main; not fettered by too much
regulation; but practical politicians know that it
may be beneficially stimulated by prudent aids and
encouragements on the part of the government.
This is proved by numerous examples too tedious to
be cited; examples which will be neglected only bv
indolent and temporizing rulers, who love to loll in
the lap of epicurean ease, and seem to imagine that
to govern well, is to amuse the wondering multitude
with sagacious aphorisms and oracular sayings.

What has been observed is sufficient to render it
manifest that, independent of the extinguishment
of the debt, the revenues proposed to be yielded up
would find ample and very useful employment for a
variety of public purposes. Already in the posses-
sion of so valuable a resource; having surmounted
the difficulties which, from the opinions and habits
of our citizens, obstruct, in this, more than in any
other country, every new provision for adding to our
public income; certainly without a colorable pre-
tence of their being a grievous or undue pressure on
the community — how foolish will it be to resign the
boon, perhaps in a short time to be compelled again
to resort to it; and for that purpose to hazard a
repetition of the obstacles which have been before
encountered and overcome, — obstacles which gave
birth to one insurrection, and may give birth to
another ! Infatuated must be the councils from
which so injurious a project has proceeded!

264 Alexander Hamilton

But admitting the position, that there is an excess
of income which ought to be rehnquished, still the
proposal to surrender the internal revenue is impoli-
tic. It ought to be carefully preserved, as not being
exposed to the casualties incident to our intercourse
with foreign nations, and therefore the most certain.
It ought to be preserved, as reaching to descriptions
of persons who are not proportionately affected by
the impost, and as tending, for this reason, to dis-
tribute the public burden more equitably. It ought
to be preserved, because if revenue can really be
spared, it is best to do it in such a manner as will
conduce to the relief or advancement of our naviga-
tion and commerce. Rather let the tonnage duty
on American vessels be abolished, and let the duties
be lessened on some particular articles on which they
may press with inconvenient weight. Let not the
merchant be provoked to attempt to evade the
duties by the sentiment that his ease or interest is
disregarded, and that his capital alone is to be
clogged and incumbered by the demands of the
Treasury.

But who and what are the merchants, when com-
pared with the patriotic votaries of whiskey in Penn-
sylvania and Virginia?

Lucius Crassus.

NO. IV

December 26, 1801.

It is a matter of surprise to observe a proposition
to diminish the revenue, associated with intimations
which appear to contemplate war. The suggestions

Jefferson's Message 265

in the message respecting the Barbary States plainly
enough imply that treaties are found to be too feeble
cords to bind them; and that a resort to coercive
means will probably be requisite to enforce a greater
sense of justice towards us. Accordingly, as a com-
ment on this hint, we have seen a resolution brought
into the House of Representatives, authorizing the
President to take measures effectually to protect our
commerce against those states. Believing it to be
a sound position, that these predatory nations will
never be brought to respect sufficiently the rights of
this country, whether derived from nature or from
compact, without first being made to feel its power,
there is no disposition to condemn the efficacious
employment of force. Yet, considering the maxims
by which those states are governed, and the obstin-
acy which they have evinced upon other occasions,
it is likely that a policy of this sort will be attended
with considerable, and with no very temporary, ex-
pense. This alone is conceived to be a conclusive
reason against parting with any portion of our pre-
sent income; nothing could be less advisable, at a
moment when there is the prospect, if not the pro-
ject, of a general rupture with those powers.

Hitherto the proposal for sacrificing the internal
revenue has been tried almost wholly by the test of
expediency; it is time to put it to a severe test —
that of right. Can the proposed abolition take effect
without impairing the public faith?

This is a question of infinite moment to the char-
acter of our government — to the prosperity of our
nation. If it is to be answered in the negative, it

266 Alexander Hamilton

must be matter of profound regret that a proposal
which could give rise to it should have come from the
First Magistrate of the United States.

It is hardly necessary to premise, by way of ex-
planation, that to pledge or appropriate funds for a
public debt is, in effect, to mortgage them to the pub-
lic creditors for their security. Retracing our finan-
cial system to its commencement, we find the impost
and the excise on distilled spirits repeatedly and
positively pledged, first, for the payment and interest
of the debt, next, for the reimbursement of certain
instalments of the principal. It is true, the appro-
priation is qualified by the words, '' so much as may
be necessary," but the public faith is engaged in ex-
press terms, that both the funds shall continue to be
levied and collected, until the whole debt shall be
discharged; with the single reserve, that the govern-
ment shall be at liberty to substitute other funds
of equal amount. It follows that these two items of
revenue constitute a joint fund for the security of
the public creditor, co-extensive in duration with the
existence of any portion of the debt; and it is to be
inferred that the government, contemplating the pos-
sibility of a deficiency in one, intended that the other
should serve as an auxiliary, and that the co-opera-
tion of the two should effectually guard the credi-
tor against the fluctuations and casualties to which
either singly might be exposed. Anticipating, how-
ever, the possibility that the one or the other, in
whole or in part, might in practice be found incon-
venient, a right was reserved to exchange either for
an adequate substitute. But it is conceived that this

Jefferson's Message 267

does not imply the right to exchange the one for the
other. The effect would be essentially different in
the two cases : in the first there would always be two
funds, aggregately of the same or similar force and
value, to secure the creditor; in the last there would
be only one: from being double, the security would
become single.

This mode of reasoning is the only one upon
which the rights and the interests of the creditors
can safely rest; it is plain and intelligible, and
avoids the dangers of erroneous speculations about
the separate sufficiency of the respective funds. Ad-
mitting, however, for the sake of the argument, that
this is too rigid a construction of the contract, and
that when one of the two funds should have acquired
a stable increase, which would render it equal to the
purpose of the pledge, it might then be made to
stand in the place of both; yet, surely, neither the
purity of the public faith, nor the safety of the credi-
tor, will endure the application of this principle to
any other, than to an ascertained result. Neither,
certainly, will tolerate, that merely a reasonable
ground of confidence shall authorize so material an
alteration in the essence of the security which pro-
tects the debt.

The foregoing reasoning as to the question of
right, may be further elucidated by a particular pro-
vision in the act ' which introduced the excise on
distilled spirits. After a permanent appropriation of
the proceeds of the tax to the interest of the debt,
it provides that the surplus, if any there shall be, at

' Passed March 3, 1791.

268 Alexander Hamilton

the end of each year shall be applied to the reduction
of the principal ; unless the surplus or any part of
it should be required for public exigencies of the
United States, and should be so appropriated by
special "acts of Congress." While at this early
period of our finances it was not thought expedient
to appropriate this surplus absolutely to the sinking
fund, it was contemplated that it should not be
diverted, except for public exigencies. Gratuitously
to relinquish it, is therefore contrary to the letter as
well as to the spirit of the original institution of the
fund. The like observations, though with less force,
apply to the provision noticed in another num-
ber, respecting the surpluses of the revenue generally,
which, as we have seen, are all appropriated to the
sinking fund. At the session of Congress imme-
diately succeeding any year in which such surpluses
may accrue, they may be specially appropriated or
reserved by law, for other purposes; but, if this be
not done, they are then to go of course to the sink-
ing fund. To appropriate or to reserve, plainly, can
never mean to relinquish. The true meaning of the
provision appears, therefore, to be, that though Con-
gress, under the restriction expressed as to the time,
may appropriate or reserve these surpluses for other
objects of the public service, yet if not wanted for
such other objects, they shall continue to enure to
the fund for the reduction of the debt, so long as,
by the laws regulating their duration, they are con-
tinued to be levied.

Thus, on whatever side it is viewed, there is a
temerity and a levity in the proposition which con-

Jefferson's Message 269

founds and amazes. If, unhappily, it shall receive
the sanction of Congress, there will remain nothing
in principle of our system of public credit — nothing
on which the confidence of the creditor can safely
repose. The precedent of a fatal innovation will
have been established, and its extension to a total
annihilation of the security would be a step not much
more violent than that by which the inroad had
commenced. But it is devoutly to be hoped, that
the delirium of party spirit will not so far transport
the legislative representatives of the nation, as to
induce them to put the seal to a measure, as motive-
less— as precipitate — as impolitic — as faithless — as
could have been dictated, even by deliberate hostil-
ity to the vital principles of our national credit.
Peculiarly the guardians of the public faith, and of
the public purse, they surely will not consent to be-
tra}^ the one, and impoverish the other, through an
abject and criminal complaisance.

It is a fact not unknown to himself, that abroad, as
well as at home, a diffidence has been entertained of
the opinions and views of the person now at the
head of our government, with regard to our system
of public credit. This undoubtedly ought to have
been with him a strong reason for caution, especially
at so early a stage of his administration, as to any
step which might strengthen that diffidence, which
might be in the least equivocal in its tendency. Nor
ought it to have been overlooked, that the interest
of the State and a regard for his own reputation de-
manded this caution. The appearance of instability
in the plans of a government, particularly respecting

270 Alexander Hamilton

its finances, can never fail to make injurious impres-
sions. To a government, the character of which has
not yet been established by time, the example of
sudden and questionable innovations may be ex-
pected to be in the highest degree detrimental. Pru-
dent men everywhere are apt to take the alarm at
great changes not manifestly beneficial and proper —
a disposition which has been much increased by the
terrible events of the present revolutionary era. Yet,
disregarding these salutary and obvious reflections,
the President has ventured, in the very infancy of
his administration, upon the bold and unjustifiable
step of recommending to the legislative body a
renunciation of the whole internal revenue of the
country; though the nation is at this moment
encumbered with a considerable public debt, and
though that very revenue is, by the existing laws, an
established fund for its discharge.

What, then, are we to think of the ostentatious
assurance in the Inaugural Speech as to the preserva-
tion of Public Faith ? Was it given merely to
amuse with agreeable but deceptive sounds? Is it
possible that it could have been intended to conceal
the insidious design of aiming a deadly blow at a
system which was opposed in its origin, and has
been calumniated in every stage of its progress ?

Alas! how deplorable will it be, should it ever
become proverbial, that a President of the United
States, like the Weird Sisters in Macbeth, " Keeps his
word of promise to our ear, but breaks it to our hope! ' '

Lucius Crassus.

Jefferson's Message 271

NO. V

December 29, 1801.

In the rage for change, or under the stimulus of
a deep-rooted animosity against the former adminis-
trations, or for the sake of gaining popular favor by
a profuse display of extraordinary zeal for economy,
even our judiciary system has not passed unassailed.
The attack here is not so open as that on the revenue ;
but when we are told that the States individually
have ''principal care of our persons, our property,
and our reputation, constituting the great field of
human concerns; and that, therefore, we may well
doubt whether our organization is not too complicated,
too expensive; whether offices and officers have not
been multiplied unnecessarily, and sometimes in-
juriously to the service they were meant to promote";
when afterwards it is observed that "the judiciary
system will, of course, present itself to the contem-
plation of Congress"; and when it appears that
pains had been taken to form and communicate a
numerical list of all the causes decided since the first
establishment of the courts, in order that Congress
might be able to judge of the proportion which the
institution bears to the business; — with all these in-
dications, it is not to be misunderstood that the
intention was unequivocally to recommend material
alterations in the system.

No bad thermometer of the capacity of our Chief
Magistrate for government is furnished by the rule
which he offers for judging of the utility of the Fed-
eral Courts; namely, the exact number of causes
which have been by them decided. There is hardly

272 Alexander Hamilton

any stronger symptom of a pigmy mind, than a pro-
pensity to allow greater weight to secondary than to
primary considerations.

It ought, at least, to have been adverted to, that if
this circumstance were a perfect criterion, it is yet
too early to apply it, especially to the courts re-
cently erected ; and it might have merited reflection,
that it would have been prudent to wait for a more
advanced period of the presidential term, to ascer-
tain what influence the great change which has lately
happened in our public functionaries may have on
the confidence, which in many parts of the Union
has heretofore been reposed in the State Courts, so
as to prevent a preference of those of the United
States.

But, to enable us duly to appreciate the wisdom
of the projected innovation, it is necessary to review
the objects which were designed to be accomplished
by the arrangement of the judiciary power, as it is
seen in the Constitution, and to examine the organ-
ization which has been adopted, to give effect to
those objects.

It is well known to all who were acquainted with
the situation of our public affairs when the Constitu-
tion was framed, and it is to be inferred from the
provisions of the instrument itself, that the objects
contemplated, were: ist. To provide a faithful and
efficient organ for carrying into execution the laws
of the United States, which otherwise would be a
dead letter. 2d. To secure the fair interpretation and
execution of our treaties with foreign nations. 3d.
To maintain harmony between the individual States ;

Jefferson's Message 273

not only by an independent and impartial mode
of determining controversies between them, but by
frustrating the effects of partial laws in any one,
injurious to the rights of the citizens of another.
4th. To guard generally against invasions of prop-
erty and right, by fraudulent and oppressive laws
of particular States, enforced by their own tribunals.
5 th. To guard the rights and conciliate the confidence
of foreigners, by giving them the option of tribunals
created by, and responsible to the general govern-
ment; which, having the immediate charge of our
external relations, including the care of our national
peace, might be expected to be more tenacious of
such an administration of justice as would leave to
the citizens of other countries no real cause of com-
plaint. 6th. To protect reciprocally the rights and
inspire mutually the confidence of the citizens of
different States in their intercourse with each other,
by enabling them to resort to tribunals so constituted
as to be essentially free from local bias or partiality.
7 th. To give the citizens of each State a fair chance
of impartial justice through the medium of those
tribunals, in cases in which the titles to property
might depend on the conflicting grants of different
States. These were the immensely important ob-
jects to be attained by the institution of an adequate
judiciary power in the government of the United
States. Nor did its institution depend upon mere
speculative opinion, though, indeed, even that would
have been sufficient to indicate the expediency of
the measure; but experience had actually, in a
variety of ways, demonstrated its necessity.

VOL. VIII.— 18.

2 74 Alexander Hamilton

The treaties of the United States had been in-
fracted by State laws, put in execution by State
judicatories. The rights of property had been in-
vaded by the same means, in numerous instances, as
well with respect to foreigners as to citizens ; as well
between citizens of different States as between citi-
zens of the same State. There were many cases in
which lands were held or claimed under adverse
grants of different States, having rival pretensions;
and in respect to which, the local tribunals, even if
not fettered by the local laws, could hardly be ex-
pected to be impartial. In several of the States the
courts were so constituted as not to afford sufficient
assurance of a pure, enlightened, and independent
administration of justice; an evil which in some of
them still continues. From these different sources
serious mischiefs have been felt. The interests of
the United States, in their foreign concerns, had suf-
fered; their reputation had been tarnished; their
peace endangered; their mutual harmony had been
disturbed or menaced; creditors in numerous in-
stances had been ruined or very much injured ; con-
fidence in pecuniary transactions had been destroyed,
and the springs of industry had been proportionably
relaxed. To these circumstances, as much, perhaps,
as any other that accompanied a defective social
organization, are we to attribute that miserable and
prostrate situation of our affairs which, immediately
before the establishment of our present national
Constitution, filled every intelligent lover of his
country with affliction and mortification. To the
institution of a competent judiciary, little less than

Jefferson's Message 275

to any one provision in that Constitution, is to be
ascribed the rapid and salutary renovation of our
affairs, which succeeded.

The enumeration ' of the component parts of the
judicial power, in the Constitution, has an evident
eye to the several objects which have been stated.
And considering their vast magnitude, no sound
politician will doubt that the principal question with
the administration ought to be, how to give the
greatest efficacy to this essential part of the system ;
in comparison with which the more or less of ex-
pense must be a matter of trivial moment. The
difference of expense between an enlarged and a
contracted plan may be deemed an atom in the
great scale of national expenditure. The fulfilment
of the important ends of this part of our constitu-
tional plan, though with but a small degree of
additional energy, facility, or convenience, must
infinitely overbalance the consideration of such dif-
ference of expense.

The number of causes which have been tried in
these courts, as already intimated, can furnish but a
very imperfect test by which to decide upon their
utility or necessity. Their existence alone has a

^ "Sec. II. The judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and
eqtiity, arising under this Constitution; the laws of the United States,
and treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority; to
all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls;
to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies
to which the United States shall be a party; to controversies between
two or more States; between a State and citizens of another State;
between citizens of different States; between citizens of the same
State, claiming lands under grants of different States; and between a
State, or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens, or subjects."

276 Alexander Hamilton

powerful and salutary effect. The liberty to use
them, even where it is not often exercised, inspires
confidence in the intercourse of business. They are
viewed as beneficent guardians, whose protection
may be claimed when necessary. They induce cau-
tion in the State Courts, and promote in them a more
attentive, if not a more able administration of jus-
tice. Though in some districts of the Union the
Federal Courts are seldom resorted to, in others they
are used in an extensive degree, particularly as be-
tween foreigners and citizens, and between citizens
of different States.

That their organization throughout the United
States ought to be uniform will not be denied, and it
is evident that it ought to be regulated by the situa-
tion of those parts in which a greater degree of em-
ployment denotes the courts to be most necessary.
Of consequence, if the quantity of business were at
all a guide, the scenes in which there is the greatest
employment for the Federal Courts ought to furnish
the rule for computation; it ought not to be sought
for in the aggregate of business throughout the
Union. In reference to this point, it is likewise
material to observe that, from the manner in which
the Federal Courts were constituted, previous to
the last arrangement, the organization of the State
Courts was so much better adapted to expedition, as
to afford a strong motive for giving them a prefer-
ence. The establishment of Circuit Courts, as now
modified, will vary that circumstance, and thus at-
tract more business; but it is evident that it must
require a course of years fully to exemplify its opera-

Jefferson's Message 277

tion. To attempt, therefore, to draw important
inferences from the short experience hitherto had, is
worse than puerile.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. VI

January, 1802.

' In answer to the observations in the last number,
it may perhaps be said, that the message meant
nothing more than to condemn the recent multipli-
cation of Federal Courts, and to bring them back to
their original organization: considering that as ade-
quate to all the purposes of the Constitution; to all
the ends of justice and policy.

Towards forming a right judgment on this point,
it may be of service to those who are not familiar
with the subject, to state briefly what was the for-
mer and what is the present establishment.

The former consisted of one Supreme Court with
six judges, who twice a year made the tour of the
United States, distributed into three circuits, for the
trial of causes arising in the respective districts of
each circuit; and of fifteen District Courts, each
having a single judge. The present consists of one
Supreme Court with the like number of judges, to be
reduced on the first vacancy happening, to five; of
six Circuit Courts, having three distinct judges each,
excepting one circuit, which has only a single circuit
judge; and of twenty-two District Courts, with a
judge for each as before. In both plans, the Supreme
Court is to hold two terms at the seat of government,
and the Circuit Courts are to be holden twice a year

278 Alexander Hamilton

in each district. The material difference in the two,
as it respects the organs by which they are executed,
is reducible to the creation of twenty-three additional
judges; sixteen for the six Circuit Courts, seven for
the superadded District Courts, and the addition of
the necessary clerks, marshals, and subordinate offi-
cers of seven courts. This shows at a single view,
that the difference of expense, as applied to the
United States, is of trifling consideration.

But here an inquiry naturally presents itself : why
was the latter plan substituted to the former more
economical one? The solution is easy and satisfac-
tory. The first was inadequate to its object, and in-
capable of being carried into execution. The extent
of the United States is manifestly too large for the
due attendance of the six judges in the Circuit Courts.
The immense journeys they were obliged to perform
kept them from their families for several successive
months in the year ; this rendered the office a griev-
ous burden, and had a strong tendency to banish or
exclude men of the best talents and characters from
these important stations. It is known to have been
no light inducement with one Chief -Justice, whose
health was delicate, to quit that office for another at-
tended with less bodily fatigue ; and it is well under-
stood that other important members of the Supreme
Court were prepared to resign their situations, if
there had not been some alterations of the kind which
has taken place. It was also no uncommon circum-
stance for temporary interruption in the health of
particular judges, of whom only one was attached to
a circuit, to occasion a failure in the sessions of the

Jefferson's Message 279

courts; to the no small disappointment, vexation,
and loss of the suitor. At any rate the necessity of
visiting, within a given time, the numerous parts of
an extensive circuit, unavoidably rendered the ses-
sions of each court so short, that, where suits were in
any degree multiplied or intricate, there was not time
to get through the business with due deliberation.
Besides all this, the incessant fatigue^ of the judges
of the Supreme Court, and their long and frequent
absences from home, prevented that continued at-
tention to their studies, which even the most learned
will confess to be necessary for those intrusted in the
last resort with questions frequently novel, always
of magnitude, affecting not only the property of in-
dividuals, but the rights of foreign nations, and the
Constitution of the country.

For these reasons it became necessary either to re-
nounce the Circuit Courts or to constitute them
differently: the latter was preferred. The United
States were divided into six circuits, with a proper
number of judges to preside over each. No man of
discernment will pretend that the number of circuits
is too great. Surely three States forming an area
equal to that possessed by some of the first powers of
Europe, must afford a quantity of business sufficient
to employ three judges on a circuit, twice a year;
and certainly not less than three will suffice for the
dispatch of business, whether the number of cases be
small or great. The inconsiderable addition made
to the number of the District Courts will hardly
excite criticism, and does not, therefore, claim a
particular discussion, nor will their necessity be

28o Alexander Hamilton

generally questioned. They are almost continually
occupied with revenue and admiralty causes, besides
the great employment collaterally given to the judges
in the execution of the Bankrupt Act, which proba-
bly must increase instead of being diminished.

Perhaps it may be contended that the Circuit
Courts ought to be abolished altogether, and the
business for which they are designed left to the State
Courts, with a right of appeal to the Supreme Courts
of the United States. Indeed, it is probable that this
was the true design of the intimation in the message :
A disposition to magnify the importance of the par-
ticular States, in derogation from that of the United
States, is a feature in that communication not to be
mistaken. But to such a scheme there are insupera-
ble objections. The right of appeal is by no means
equivalent to the right of applying, in the first in-
stance, to a tribunal agreeable to the suitor. The
desideratum is to have impartial justice, at a moder-
ate expense, administered ''promptly and without
delay"; not to be obliged to seek it through the
long, and tedious, and expensive process of an ap-
peal. It is true, that in causes of sufficient magni-
tude an appeal ought to be open ; which includes the
possibility of going through that process ; but when
the courts of original jurisdiction are so constituted
as not only to deserve but to inspire confidence,
appeals, from the inevitable inconvenience attached
to them, are exceptions to the general rule of re-
dress; where the contrary is the situation, they be-
come the general rule itself. Appeals will then be
multiplied to a pernicious extent, while the difficul-

JefFerson*s Message 281

ties to which they are hable operate in numerous in-
stances as a preventive of justice, because they fall
with most weight on the least wealthy suitor. It is
to be remembered that the cases in which the Fed-
eral Courts would be preferred, are those where there
would exist some distrust of the State Courts, and
this distrust would be a fruitful source of appeals.
To say that there could be no good cause for distrust,
and that the danger of it is imaginary, is to be wiser
than experience, and wiser than the Constitution.
The first officer of the government, when speaking
in his official capacity, has no right to attempt to be
thus wise. His duty exacts of him that he should
respectfully acquiesce in the spirit and ideas of that
instrument under which he is appointed.

The detail would be invidious, perhaps injurious;
else it would be easy to show that however great the
confidence to which the tribunals in some of the States
are entitled, there is just cause for suspicion as to
those of others ; and that in respect to a still greater
number, it would be inexpedient to delegate to them
the care of interests which are specially and properly
confided to the Government of the United States.

The plan of using the State Courts as substitutes
for the Circuit Courts of the Union, is objectionable
in another view. The citizens of the United States
have a right to expect from those who administer our
government, the efficacious enjoyment of those privi-
leges, as suitors, for which the Constitution has pro-
vided. To turn them round, from the enjoyment of
those privileges, in originating their causes, to the
eventual and dilatory resource of an appeal, is in a

282 Alexander Hamilton

great degree to defeat the object contemplated.
This is a consideration of much real weight, es-
pecially to the merchants in our commercial States.

In the investigation of our subject, it is not to be
forgotten that the right to employ the agency of the
State Courts, for executing the laws of the Union, is
liable to question, and has, in fact, been seriously
questioned. This circumstance renders it the more
indispensable, that the permanent organization of
the Federal Judiciary should be adapted to the
prompt and vigorous execution of those laws.

The right of Congress to discontinue judges once
appointed, by the abrogation of the courts for which
they were appointed, especially as it relates to their
emoluments, offers matter for a very nice discussion
but which shall now be only superficially touched.

On the one hand, it is not easy to maintain that
Congress cannot abolish courts which, having been
once instituted, are found in practice to be incon-
venient and unnecessary. On the other hand, if it
may be done, so as to include the annihilation of
existing judges, it is evident that the measure may
be used to defeat that clause of the Constitution
which renders the duration and the emoluments
of the judicial office coextensive with the good be-
havior of the officer, an object essential to the inde-
pendence of the judges, the security of the citizen,
and the preservation of the government.

As a medium which may reconcile opposite ideas,
and obviate opposite inconveniences, it would, per-
haps, be the best and safest practical construction
to say that, though Congress may abolish the courts,

JefFerson's Message 283

yet shall the actual judges retain their character and
their emoluments, with the authorities of office, so
far as they can be exercised elsewhere than in the
courts. For this construction a precedent exists in
the last arrangement of the Judiciary. Though the
number of the judges of the Supreme Court is re-
duced from six to five, yet the actual reduction is
wisely deferred to the happening of a vacancy. The
expense of continuing the salaries of the existing
incumbents cannot prudently be put in competition
with the advantage of guarding from invasion one
of the most precious provisions in the Constitution.
Nor ought it to be without its weight, that this modi-
fication will best comport with good faith, on the
part of government, towards those who had been in-
vited to accept offices, to be held, not by an uncer-
tain tenure, but during good behavior.

Weighing maturely all the very important and
very delicate considerations which appertain to the
subject, would a wise or prudent statesman hazard
the consequences of immediately unmaking, at one
session, courts and judges, which had only been
called into being at the one preceding? Delectable
indeed must be the work of disorganization to a
mind which can thus rashly advance in its prosecu-
tion!— Infatuated must that people be who do not
open their eyes to projects so intemperate — so mis-
chievous!— Who does not see what is the ultimate
object? Delenda est Carthago — Ill-fated Constitu-
tion, which Americans had fondly hoped would con-
tinue for ages, the guardian of public liberty, the
source of national prosperity! Lucius Crassus.

284 Alexander Hamilton

NO. VII

January 7, 1802.

The next most exceptionable feature in the mes-
sage, is the proposal to abolish all restriction on na-
turalization, arising from a previous residence. In
this the President is not more at variance with the
concurrent maxims of all commentators on popular
governments, than he is with himself. The Notes
on Virginia are in direct contradiction to the mes-
sage, and furnish us with strong reasons against the
policy now recommended. The passage alluded to
is here presented. Speaking of the population of
America, Mr. Jefferson says: ''Here I will beg leave
to propose a doubt. The present desire of America,
is to produce rapid population, by as great importa-
tions of foreigners as possible. But is this founded in
good policy?''' ''Are there no inconveniences to be
thrown into the scale, against the advantage ex-
pected from a multiplication of numbers, by the im-
portation of foreigners? It is for the happiness of
those united in society, to harmonize as much as
possible, in matters which they must of necessity
transact together. Civil government being the sole
object of forming societies, its administration must
be conducted by common consent. Every species
of government has its specific principles. Ours, per-
haps, are more peculiar than those of any other in
the universe. It is a composition of the freest prin-
ciples of the English Constitution, with others, de-
rived from natural right and reason. To these,
nothing can be more opposed than the maxims of
absolute monarchies. Yet from such, we are to

Jefferson*s Message 285

expect the greatest number of emigrants. They will
bring with them the principles of the governments they
leave, imbibed in their early youth; or if able to throw
them off, it will be in exchange for an unbounded
licentiousness, passing as is usual, from one extreme
to another. It would be a miracle were they to stop
precisely at the point of temperate liberty. Their prin-
ciples with their language, they will transmit to their
children. In proportion to their numbers, they will
share with us in the legislation. They will infuse into
it their spirit, warp and bias its direction, and render
it a heterogeneous, incoherent, distracted mass. I may
appeal to experience, during the present contest, for
a verification of these conjectures ; but if they be not
certain in event, are they not possible, are they not
probable ? Is it not safer to wait with patience for the
attainment of any degree of population desired or ex-
pected? May not our government be more homo-
geneous, more peaceable, more durable? Suppose
twenty millions of republican Americans, thrown all
of a sudden into France, what would be the condi-
tion of that kingdom? If it would be more turbu-
lent, less happy, less strong, we may believe that the
addition of half a million of foreigners, to our present
numbers, would produce a similar effect here. " Thus
wrote Mr. Jefferson in 1781. — Behold the reverse of
the medal. The message of the President contains
the following sentiments: ''A denial of citizenship
under a residence of fourteen years, is a denial to a
great proportion of those who ask it, and controls a
policy pursued from their first settlement, by many
of these States, and still believed of consequence to

286 Alexander Hamilton

their prosperity. And shall we refuse to the unhappy
fugitives from distress, that hospitality which the
savages of the wilderness extended to our fathers ar-
riving in this land? Shall oppressed humanity find
no asylum on this globe? Might not the general
character and capabilities of a citizen, be safely com-
municated to every one manifesting a bona-fide pur-
pose of embarking his life and fortune permanently
with us?"

But if gratitude can be allowed to form an excuse
for inconsistency in a public character — in the man
of the people — a strong plea of this sort may be urged
in behalf of our President. It is certain, that had the
late election been decided entirely by native citizens,
had foreign aiixiliaries been rejected on both sides,
the man who ostentatiously vaunts that the doors of
public honor and confidence have been burst open to
him, would not now have been at the head of the
American nation. Such a proof, then, of virtuous
discernment in the oppressed fugitives had an im-
perious claim on him to a grateful return, and, with-
out supposing any very uncommon share of self-love,
would naturally be a strong reason for a revolution in
his opinions.

The pathetic and plaintive exclamations by which
the sentiment is enforced might be liable to much
criticism, if we are to consider it in any other light
than as a flourish of rhetoric. It might be asked in
return. Does the right to asylum or hospitality carry
with it the right to suffrage and sovereignty? And
what, indeed, was the courteous reception which was
given to our forefathers by the savages of the wild-

Jefferson's Message 287

erness? When did these humane and philanthropic
savages exercise the poHcy of incorporating strangers
among themselves on their first arrival in the coun-
try ? When did they admit them into their huts, to
make part of their families? and when did they dis-
tinguish them by making them their sachems ? Our
histories and traditions have been more than apoc-
ryphal, if any thing like this kind and gentle treat-
ment was really lavished by the much-belied savages
upon our thankless forefathers. But the remark ob-
trudes itself. Had it all been true, prudence re-
quires us to trace the history further and ask what
has become of the nations of savages who exercised
this policy, and who now occupies the territory which
they then inhabited? Perhaps a lesson is here
taught which ought not to be despised.

But we may venture to ask, What does the Presi-
dent really mean by insinuating that we treat aliens
coming to this country with inhospitality ? Do we
not permit them quietly to land on our shores? Do
we not protect them, equally with our own citizens,
in their persons and reputation, in the acquisition
and enjoyment of property? Are not our courts of
justice open for them to seek redress of injuries ? and
are they not permitted peaceably to return to their
own country whenever they please, and to carry
with themx all their effects ? What, then, means this
worse than idle declamation? ,^

The impolicy of admitting foreigners to an imme-
diate and unreserved participation in the right of
suffrage, or in the sovereignty of a republic, is as
much a received axiom as any thing in the science of

288 Alexander Hamilton

politics, and is verified by the experience of all ages.
Among other instances, it is known that hardly any
thing contributed more to the downfall of Rome
than her precipitate communication of the privileges
of citizenship to the inhabitants of Italy at large.
And how terribly was Syracuse scourged by per-
petual seditions, when, after the overthrow of the
tyrants, a great number of foreigners were suddenly
admitted to the rights of citizenship ? Not only does
ancient, but modern, and even domestic, story
furnish evidence of what may be expected from the
dispositions of foreigners when they get too early a
footing in a country. Who wields the sceptre of
France, and has erected a despotism on the ruins of
her former government ? A foreigner. Who rules the
councils of our own ill-fated, unhappy country? and
who stimulates persecution on the heads of its citi-
zens for daring to maintain an opinion, and for dar-
ing to exercise the rights of stiff rage ? A foreigner! '
Where, then, is the virtuous pride that once dis-
tinguished Americans? where the indignant spirit,
which, in defence of principle, hazarded a revolution
to attain that independence now insidiously at-
tacked? Lucius Crassus.

NO. VIII

January 12, 1802.

Resuming the subject of our last paper, we pro-
ceed to trace still further the consequences that must

' This would seem to refer to Mr. Gallatin, Secretary of the Treasury,
and yet the latter part of the question is so unlike Mr. Gallatin that
we are almost forced to suppose that it is a fling at some one else who
cannot be now identified.

JefFerson*s Message 289

result from a too unqualified admission of foreigners
to an equal participation in our civil and political
rights.

The safety of a republic depends essentially on the
energy of a common national sentiment; on a uni-
formity of principles and habits; on the exemption
of the citizens from foreign bias, and prejudice ; and
on that love of country which will almost invariably
be found to be closely connected with birth, educa-
tion, and family.

The opinion advanced in the Notes on Virginia is
undoubtedly correct, that foreigners will generally
be apt to bring with them attachments to the per-
sons they have left behind; to the country of their
nativity, and to its particular customs and manners.
They will also entertain opinions on government con-
genial with those under which they have lived; or,
if they should be led hither from a preference to ours,
how extremely unlikely is it that they will bring
with them that temperate love of liberty, so essential
to real republicanism? There may, as to particular
individuals, and at particular times, be occasional ex-
ceptions to these remarks, yet such is the general
rule. The influx of foreigners must, therefore, tend
to produce a heterogeneous compound; to change
and corrupt the national spirit; to complicate
and confound public opinion; to introduce foreign
propensities. In the composition of society, the
harmony of the ingredients is all-important, and
whatever tends to a discordant intermixture must
have an injurious tendency.

The United States have already felt the evils of

VOL, VIII,— ig.

290 Alexander Hamilton

incorporating a large number of foreigners into their
national mass; by promoting in different classes
different predilections in favor of particular foreign
nations, and antipathies against others, it has served
very much to divide the community and to distract
our councils. It has been often likely to compromit
the interests of our own country in favor of another.
The permanent effect of such a policy will be, that in
times of great public danger there will be always a
numerous body of men, of whom there may be just
grounds of distrust ; the suspicion alone will weaken
the strength of the nation, but their force may be
actually employed in assisting an invader.

In the infancy of the country, with a boundless
waste to people, it was politic to give a facility to
naturalization; but our situation is now changed.
It appears from the last census that we have in-
creased about one third in ten years ; after allowing
for what we have gained from abroad, it will be quite
apparent that the natural progress of our own popu-
lation is sufficiently rapid for strength, security, and
settlement. By what has been said, it is not meant
to contend for a total prohibition of the right of
citizenship to strangers, nor even for the very long
residence which is now a prerequisite to naturaliza-
tion, and which of itself goes far towards a denial
of that privilege. The present law was merely a
temporary measure adopted under peculiar circum-
stances, and perhaps demands revision. But there
is a wide difference between closing the door alto-
gether and throwing it entirely open; between a
postponement of fourteen years, and an immediate

Jefferson's Message 291

admission to all the rights of citizenship. Some
reasonable term ought to be allowed to enable aliens
to get rid of foreign and acquire American attach-
ments; to learn the principles and imbibe the spirit
of our government ; and to admit of a probability at
least, of their feeling a real interest in our affairs. A
residence of not less than five years ought to be re-
quired.

If the rights of naturalization may be communi-
cated by parts, and it is not perceived why they may
not, those peculiar to the conducting of business and
the acquisition of property, might with propriety be
at once conferred, upon receiving proof, by certain
prescribed solemnities, of the intention of the candi-
dates to become citizens; postponing all political
privileges to the ultimate term. To admit foreigners
indiscriminately to the rights of citizens, the moment
they put foot in our country, as recommended in the
message, would be nothing less than to admit the
Grecian horse into the citadel of our liberty and

sovereignty.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. IX

January i8, 1802.

The leading points of the message have been
sufficiently canvassed, and it is believed to have
been fully demonstrated that this communication is
chargeable with all the faults which were imputed
to it on the outset of the examination. We have
shown that it has made, or attempted to make,
prodigal sacrifices of constitutional energy, of sound

292 Alexander Hamilton

principle, and of public interest. In the doctrine re-
specting war, there is a senseless abandonment of
the just and necessary authority of the executive
department, in a point material to our national
safety. In the proposal to relinquish the internal
revenue, there is an attempt to establish a precedent
ruinous to our public credit; calculated to prolong
the burden of the debt, and to enfeeble the government,
by depriving it of resources of great importance to its
respectability, to the accomplishment of its most
salutary plans, to the power of being useful. In the
attack upon the judiciary establishment, there is a
plain effort to impair that organ of the government:
one on which its efficiency and success absolutely
depend. In the recommendation to admit indis-
criminately foreign emigrants to the privileges of
American citizens, on their first entrance into our
country, there is an attempt to break down every
pale which has been erected for the preservation of
a national spirit and a national character, and to let
in the most powerful means of perverting and cor-
rupting both the one and the other.

This is more than the moderate opponents of Mr.
Jefferson's elevation ever feared from his adminis-
tration; much more than the most wrong-headed of
his own sect dared to hope ; infinitely more than any
one who had read the fair professions in his inaugural
speech could have suspected. Reflecting men must
be dismayed at the prospect before us. If such
rapid strides have been hazarded in the very gristle
of his administration, what may be expected when
it shall have arrived at manhood? In vain was the

Jefferson's Message 293

collected wisdom of America convened at Philadel-
phia ; in vain were the anxious labors of a Washing-
ton bestowed. Their works are regarded as nothing
better than empty bubbles, destined to be blown
away by the mere breath of a disciple of Turgot; of
a pupil of Condorcet.

Though the most prominent features of the mes-
sage have been portrayed, and their deformity ex-
hibited in true colors, there remain many less
important traits not yet touched, which, however,
will materially assist us in determining its true char-
acter. To particularize them with minuteness would
employ more time and labor than the object de-
serves; yet to pass them by, wholly without re-
mark, would be to forego valuable materials for
illustrating the true nature of the performance under
examination.

There remains to be cursorily noticed, a disposi-
tion in our Chief Magistrate, far more partial to the
State governments, than to our National Govern-
ment; to pull down rather than to build up our
federal edifice — to vilify the past administrations of
the latter — to court for himself popular favor by arti-
fices not to be approved, either for their dignity,
their candor, or their patriotism.

Why are we emphatically and fastidiously told,
that " the States individually have the principal care
of our persons, our property and our reputation, con-
stituting the great field of human concerns''? Was it
to render the State governments more dear to us,
more the objects of affectionate solicitude ? Nothing
surely was necessary on this head ; they are already

294 Alexander Hamilton

the favorites of the people, and if they do not forfeit
the advantage by a most gross abuse of trust, must,
by the very nature of the objects confided to them,
continue always to be so. Was it to prevent too
large a portion of affection being bestowed on the
General Government? No pains on this score were
requisite ; not only for the reason just assigned, but
for the further reason that the more peculiar objects
of this government, though no less essential to our
prosperity than those of the State governments,
oblige it often to act upon the community in a man-
ner more likely to produce aversion than fondness.
Accordingly every day furnishes proof, that it is not
the spoiled child of the many. On this point the high
example of the President himself is pregnant with
instruction. Was it to indicate the supreme im-
portance of the State governments over that of the
United States? This was as little useful as it was
correct. Considering the vast variety of humors,
prepossessions and localities which, in the much
diversified composition of these States, militate
against the weight and authority of the General
Government, if union under that government is ne-
cessary, it can answer no valuable purpose to de-
preciate its importance in the eyes of the people. It
is not correct ; because to the care of the Federal Gov-
ernment are confided directly, those great, general
interests on which all particular interests materially
depend: our safety in respect to foreign nations;
our tranquillity in respect to each other; the foreign
and mutual commerce of the States; the establish-
ment and regulation of the money of the country;

Jefferson's Message 295

the management of our national finances ; indirectly,
the security of liberty by the guaranty of a repub-
lican form of government to each State ; the security
of property by interdicting any State from emitting
paper money or from passing laws impairing the
obligation of contracts (from both of which causes
the rights of property had experienced serious
injury) ; the prosperity of agriculture and manufac-
tures, as intimately connected with that of com-
merce, and as depending in a variety of ways upon
the agency of the General Government. In fine,
it is the province of the General Government to
manage the greatest number of those concerns in
which the provident activity and exertion of govern-
ment are of most importance to the people ; and we
have only to compare the state of our country ante-
cedent to the establishment of the Federal Constitu-
tion, with what it has been since, to be convinced
that the most operative causes of public prosperity
depend upon that Constitution. It is not meant, by
what has been said, to insinuate that the State gov-
ernments are not extremely useful in their proper
spheres; but the object is to guard against the mis-
chiefs of exaggerating their importance, in deroga-
tion from that of the general right. Every attempt
to do this, is, remotely, a stab at the union of these
States; a blow to our collective existence as one
people — and to all the blessings which are inter-
woven with that sacred fraternity.

If it be true, as insinuated, that " our organization
is too complicated — too expensive," let it be simpli-
fied; let this, however, be done in such a manner

296 Alexander Hamilton

as not to mutilate, weaken, and eventually destroy,
our present system, but to increase the energy and
insure the duration of our National Government —
THE Rock of our Political Salvation.

In this insinuation, and in the suggestion that
'' offices and officers have been unnecessarily multi-
plied"; in the intimation that appropriations have
not been sufficiently specific, and that the system of
accountability to a single department has been dis-
turbed ; in this, and in other things too minute to be
particularized, we discover new proofs of the dis-
position of the present executive, unjustly and in-
decorously to arraign his predecessors.

As far as the message undertakes to specify any
instance of the improper complexity of our organiza-
tion, namely, in the instance of the judiciary estab-
lishment, the late administration has been already
vindicated.

As to the ''undue multiplication of offices and
officers," it is substantially a misrepresentation. It
would be nothing less than a miracle if, in a small
number of instances, it had not happened that par-
ticular offices and officers might have been dispensed
with. For, in the early essays of a new government
in making the various establishments relative to the
affairs of a nation, some mistakes in this respect will
arise, notwithstanding the greatest caution. It must
happen to every government that, in the hurry of
a new plan, some agents will occasionally be em-
ployed who may not be absolutely necessary; and
this, where there is every inclination to economy.
Similar things may have happened under our past

Jefferson's Message 297

administration, but any competent judge who will
take the trouble to examine, will be convinced that
there is no just cause for blame in this particular.

The President has not pointed out the cases to
which he applies the charge; but he has communi-
cated information of some retrenchments which he
has made, and probably intends that from these the
truth of the accusation shall be inferred.

Three instances are particularly presented; these
shall be briefly examined; it will be seen that they
do not justify the imputation. They respect certain
ministers at foreign courts; some navy agents at
particular ports ; and some inspectors of the revenue
in particular States.

As to the first, it is believed to be a pretty just
idea that we ought not greatly to multiply diplo-
matic agencies. Three permanent ones may, per-
haps, be found sufficient in the future progress of our
affairs: for France, Spain, and England. The ex-
pediency of having three is recognized by the con-
duct of our present Chief Magistrate. But others
must be employed, and during particular seasons it
may be wise to do it for a considerable length of
time. Indeed, there is strong ground for an opinion
entertained by very sensible men, that there ought
to be a permanent minister at every court with
which we have extensive commercial relations.

Two other ministers were employed by both the
former administrations, one with Portugal, the other
with Holland; and it is asserted without fear of de-
nial, that when this was done by the first president,
it was with the approbation of Mr. Jefferson himself.

298 Alexander Hamilton

One other minister was employed by the late Presi-
dent at the Court of Berlin.

A commercial treaty with Portugal is admitted on
all hands to be particularly desirable, as very in-
teresting branches of our commerce are carried on
in the Portuguese dominions. We are still without
any such treaty; to send to that court a diplomatic
agent to endeavor to effect one, was a measure of
evident propriety ; to recall him before a treaty had
been effected, must be of questionable expediency.
The views and circumstances of nations change ; and
an opportunity may occur, at som^e particular con-
juncture, for effecting what was not before possible,
which may be lost by the want of a fit agent on the
spot to embrace it. But admitting the experiment
has now been sufficiently tried to justify its abandon-
ment, still it does not follow that it was unwise to
have continued it as long as it was ; and as this must
at least rest in opinion, the continuance, if upon an
erroneous calculation in this particular, is no proof
of a ''disposition to multiply offices or officers."
And those who consider the nature and extent of
our commercial relations with Portugal, will not
cease to think it problematical, whether the ex-
pense of a diplomatic agent, especially in a situation
in which nothing has been defined by treaty, ought
to stand in competition with the benefits which may
result from the presence of a minister at the court
of that kingdom. This consideration alone is suf-
ficient to repel the charge.

Lucius Crassus.

Jefferson's Message 299

NO. X

January 25, 1802.

As to Holland — being the second power which
acknowledged our independence, and made a treaty
with us, a step which involved her in war with Great
Britain, it was deemed proper to treat her with a
marked respect. Besides this, from the time of our
revolution to the present, we have had large money
concerns with her people. A trusty and skilful pub-
lic agent was for a long time necessary to superin-
tend those concerns; and by the annexation of a
diplomatic character, a double purpose was an-
swered. The honorable nature of the station en-
abled the government to find a competent agent at
a less expense than would have been requisite to
procure one merely for the money object. It is not
meant to deny that the great change which has
lately happened in the affairs of that country, mak-
ing it in effect a dependency on France, rendered a
removal of the minister proper; but it does not fol-
low that it ought to have been done sooner. It is
also known that Mr. Murray, the late envoy, has
been for a considerable time past employed in our
negotiations with France, which probably was a
collateral reason for not recalling him sooner. In
respect to one, if not to both these agents, it may be
observed that a time of war was not the most eli-
gible moment for the removal of a minister.

As to Berlin, the inducements for keeping a minis-
ter there, have never been fully explained. It is
only known that our commercial treaty with Prussia
had expired, and that a renewal has been effected by

300 Alexander Hamilton

the envoy sent thither; but influential as was the
Court of Prussia in the affairs of Europe, during the
late dreadful storm, it may have been conceived that
a cultivation of the good-will of the Prussian mon-
arch was not a matter of indifference to the peace
and security of this country. If this was the object
of the mission, though there may have been too far-
fetched a policy in the case, it offers a defence of the
measure, which exculpates the executive, at least
from the charge of a desire to multiply officers im-
providently.

On the most unfavorable supposition, then, here
was one diplomatic agent too many, and two others
were continued longer than was absolutely necessary.
This surely is not of magnitude sufficient to consti-
tute a serious charge, where malevolence does not
inspire a spirit of accusation. In considering this
question, it ought to be remembered that it is the
prevailing policy of governments to keep diplomatic
agents at all courts where they have important
relations.

As to the navy agents, it is sufficient to say that
they were temporary persons who grew up out of
our rupture with France; who, when they were
appointed were useful to accelerate naval prepara-
tions at as many points as could be advantageously
occupied, and that it was only proper to discontinue
them when an accommodation had been effected,
and after they had had time enough to wind up the
affairs of their agency. This was not the case pre-
vious to Mr. Jefferson's administration. Accord-
ingly, in some early instances of removal, it was only

Jefferson's Message 301

done to substitute members of his own sect. And
though several of the navy agents were afterwards
discontinued, spleen itself cannot imagine any color
of blame, either as to the appointment or continu-
ance of them.

As to the inspectors of the revenue, the case in
brief stands thus: When the excise on distilled
spirits was established, three different descriptions
of officers were instituted to carry it into effect —
supervisors, inspectors, and collectors, distributed to
districts, surveys, and divisions, one to each. A dis-
trict comprehending an entire State ; a survey, some
large portions of it or a nimiber of counties ; a divi-
sion, for the most part a single county. In some of
the small States there were no distinct officers for
the surveys — the duties of inspectors being annexed
to those of supervisor; in larger ones there were
inspectors; more or less numerous, according to
their extent. As other internal revenues were estab-
lished, they were put under the management of the
same officers. The bare statement of the fact shows
the necessity of these officers. The revenues of no
government were perhaps ever collected under a
more simple organization, or through a smaller num-
ber of channels. It is not alleged that the first and
last classes of officers were unnecessary. It is only
to the middle class that any specious objection can
be made. Let us conjecture the reasons for em-
ploying them.

In some of the States great opposition was
expected, and was actually experienced. In such
States especially, it was evidently useful to have the

302 Alexander Hamilton

exertions of some men of weight and character
in spheres of moderate extent, to reconcile the dis-
contented; to arrange the details of business, and to
give energy to the measures for collection. In others
similar officers were probably useful in the early
stages, for the purpose of establishing the details
simply. The subdivision was in all cases favorable
to an active and vigilant superintendence. Nor does
it require extraordinary penetration to discern that
the policy was wise at the time when the measure
was adopted. It is possible that upon the complete
establishment of the plan, when all opposition had
been vanquished, and when the collection had
become an affair of mere routine, that this inter-
mediate class may have ceased to be essential. But
till this had become perfectly evident, it would have
been premature to alter the original plan. Though
it be true that some years have elapsed since the
excise law was passed, it is not very long since it
has been in full and uninturrupted operation. Other
laws introducing other branches of internal revenue
have been subsequently passed from time to time,
and the agency of the same officers has probably
been found useful on their first introduction and
execution. Hence it is easily accounted for, that the
inspectors were not before discontinued, if indeed
experience has shown that they are not still neces-
sary, which is itself problematical. Nothing is more
easy than to reduce the number of agents employed
in any business, and yet for the business to go on
with the reduced number. But before the reduction
is applauded, it ought to be ascertained that the

Jefferson's Message 303

business is as well done as it was before. There is a
wide difference between merely getting along with
business and doing it well and effectually.

These observations sufficiently show, that in the
instances which have been cited there is no evidence
of a disposition, in the preceding administrations,
improperly to multiply offices and officers. Acting
under different circumstances, they conducted as
those circumstances dictated, and in all probability
in a manner the best adapted to the advancement of
the public service. A change of circumstances may,
in some instances, have rendered a continuance of
some of the agents thus employed unnecessary ; and
the present Chief Magistrate may even be right in
discontinuing them; but it is not therefore right
to attempt to derive from this any plea of peculiar
merit with the people ; and it is very far from right
to make it a topic of slander on predecessors. Per-
haps, however, this is too rigorous a construction,
and that nothing more was intended than to set off
to the best advantage the petty services of petty
talents.

If this was the true aim, it is to be regretted that
it was not so managed as to avoid the appearance
of a design to depreciate in the public estimation
those who went before. Had this delicacy been
observed, the attempt would have attracted neither
notice nor comment. At most it would have been
said,

" Commas and points he sets exactly right,
And 't were a sin to rob him of his mite."

Lucius Crassus.

304 Alexander Hamilton

NO. XI

February 3, 1802.

The message observes, ''that in our care of the
public contributions intrusted to our direction, it
would be prudent to multiply barriers against the
dissipation of public money by appropriating spe-
cific sums to every specific purpose, susceptible of
definition; by disallowing all applications of money
varying from the appropriation in object or tran-
scending it in amount, by reducing the undefined
field of contingencies, and thereby circumscribing
discretionary powers over money, and by bringing
back to a single department all accountabilities for
money where the examination may be prompt, effi-
cacious, and uniform." In this recommendation, we
can be at no loss to discover additional proof of a
deliberate design in the present Chief Magistrate to
arraign the former administrations. All these sug-
gestions imply, on their part, either a neglect of, or
a defective attention to, the objects recommended.
Some of them go further, and insinuate that there |
had been a departure from correct plans which had
before been adopted. The censure intended to be
conveyed is as unjust as the conceptions which have
dictated it are crude and chimerical. In all matters
of this nature, the question turns upon the proper
boundaries of the precautions to be observed; how
far they ought to go ; where they should stop ; how
much is necessary for security and order ; what quali-
fications of general rules are to be admitted to adapt
them to practice and to attain the ends of the public
service. It is certainly possible to do too much as

Jefferson's Message 305

well as too little; to embarrass, if not defeat the end
intended, by attempting more than is practicable;
or to overbalance the good by evils accruing from an
excess of regulation. Men of business know this to
be the case in the ordinary affairs of life. How
much more must it be so in the extensive and com-
plicated concerns of an empire? To reach and not
to pass the salutary medium is the province of sound
judgment. To miss the point will ever be the lot
of those, who, enveloped all their lives in the midst
of theory, are constantly seeking for an ideal perfec-
tion, which never was and never will be attainable
in reality. It is about this medium — not about
general principles — that those in power in our gov-
ernment have differed ; and to experience, not to the
malevolent insinuations of rivals, must be the appeal,
whether the one or the other description of persons
has judged most accurately. Yet, discerning men
may form no imperfect opinion of the merits of the
controversy between them by even a cursory view of
the distinctions on which it has turned.

Nothing, for instance, is more just or proper than
the position that the Legislature ought to appropriate
specific sums, for specific purposes; but nothing is
more wild or of more inconvenient tendency, than to
attempt to appropriate ''a specific sum for each
specific purpose, susceptible of definition,'' as the
message preposterously recommends. Thus (to take
a familiar example) in providing for the transporta-
tion of an army, oats and hay for the subsistence of
horses, are each susceptible of a definition, and an
estimate, and a precise sum may be appropriated

VOL. VIII. — ao.

3o6 Alexander Hamilton

for each separately; yet in the operations of an
army, it will often happen that more than a sufficient
quantity of the one article may be obtained, and not
a sufficient quantity of the other. If the appropria-
tions be distinct, and the officer who is to make the
provision be not at liberty to divert the fund from
one of these objects to the other (as the doctrine of
the message implies), the horses of the army may in
such a case starve and its movements be arrested —
in some situations, even the army itself may likewise
be starved, by a failure of the means of transportation.
If it be said that the inconvenience here suggested
may be avoided, by making the appropriations for
forage generally, and not for the items which com-
pose it separately — the answer is, first, that this, by
uniting and blending different things, susceptible
each of a precise definition, is an abandonment of
the principle of the message ; secondly, that it would
only be a partial cure for the mischiefs incident to
that rigorous principle. It might happen that the
badness of roads would injure the wagons of the
army more than was anticipated, and so much more,
as to exhaust the specific fund appropriated for their
repairs; it might also have happened, from various
causes, that at an earlier period of the campaign, the
consumption of forage had been less than was calcu-
lated, so that there would be a surplus of the fund
destined for this object; if, in such a case, the public
agent could not transfer that surplus to the repairs
of the wagons, the motions of the army might, in this
way, be suspended, and in the event, famine and
ruin produced.

Jefferson's Message 307

This analysis might be pursued, so as to prove
that similar evils are inseparable from a much more
qualified application of the principle in the message,
and to demonstrate that nothing more can safely or
reasonably be attempted, than to distribute the pub-
lic expenses, into a certain number of convenient
subdivisions or departments; to require from the
proper officers, estimates of the items, which are to
compose each head of expense ; and after examining
these with due care, to adapt the appropriations to
the respective aggregates, — applying a specific sum
to the amount of each great subdivision : the pay of
the army; military stores; quartermaster stores, etc.,
etc. This, with even more detail than could be well
executed, has been uniformly done under the past
administrations of the present government from the
very beginning of its proceedings. More will, in the
experiment, be found impracticable and injurious;
especially in seasons and situations when the public
service demands activity and exertion.

In like manner, the former practice of the govern-
ment has corresponded with the rule, taken in its
true and just sense, of '' disallowing all applications
of money, varying fiom the appropriation in object,
or transcending it in amount. " It is confidently be-
lieved, that whoever shall allege or insinuate to the
contrary, may be challenged to point out the in-
stance in which money has been issued from the
Treasury for any purpose which was not sanctioned
by a regular appropriation, or which exceeded the
appropriated amount; or where there was an ex-
penditure of money allowed, that was not strictly

3o8 Alexander Hamilton

within the limits of such an appropriation; except,
indeed, upon the impracticable idea of minutely
separating, and distinguishing the items, which form
the aggregate of some general head of expenditure.
It is likewise material to have it well understood
that, generally speaking, the distinction between
the appropriations for different objects can only be
strictly observed at the Treasury itself, which can
easily take care that more money shall not go out
for any purpose than is authorized by law; and can
see that this money is fairly expended by the proper
officer in conformity with the general spirit of the
appropriation prescribed by the law. But it is in
most cases impossible for the officer, charged with a
particular branch of the public service, to separate
nicely in the details of expenditure, the different
funds which may have been placed in his hands.
Thus (still drawing our examples from the military
department, where the danger of misapplication is
always the greatest) if several sums be placed in the
hands of the Quartermaster-General, for different ob-
jects, he must, of necessity, distribute a large pro-
portion of them among his principal deputies, and
these again among subordinate agents. Unless this
distribution be pursued through the remotest rami-
fications, down to the moment of final expenditure,
it is evident that it must fail throughout; and it is
no less evident that it cannot be so far pursued. But
to this, the accountantship only would be an in-
superable obstacle; it would require in every, the
most inferior, agent, a profound knowledge of ac-
counts, and would impose, both on principals and

Jefferson's Message 309

subordinates, the duty of keeping such a multipHcity
of them, as, if even practicable, would exhaust the
fund issued for the public service, in mere clerkship.
Another most mischievous consequence would ensue.
The exigencies of the public service are often so vari-
able, that a public agent would frequently find him-
self full-handed for one purpose, empty-handed for
another; and if forbidden to make a transfer, not
only the service would suffer, but an opportunity,
with very strong temptation, would be given, to
traffic with the public money for private gain ; while
the business of the government would be stagnated
by the injudicious and absurd impediments of an
over-driven caution. Happily, it is not very ma-
terial that the principle of distinct appropriations for
separate objects, should be carried through all the
details. The essential ends of it are answered, if it
be strictly pursued, in the issuing of money from the
Treasury, and if this department be careful that the
principal lines of discrimination are not transgressed.
The theory of the message plainly contemplates
that in no case shall the actual money appertaining
to one fund be expended for the purpose of another,
though each fund may be sufficient for its object,
and though there may be an appropriation for each
object. This is another excess of theory, which,
with a full treasury, would often disable the govern-
ment from fulfilling its engagements, and from carry-
ing on the public business. To execute this plan
consistently with the exigencies of national expendi-
ture would probably require, in ordinary, a triplica-
tion of the revenues, or a capital necessary for the

3IO Alexander Hamilton

whole amount of that expenditure, and would very
often lock up from circulation large sums which
might be of great importance to the activity of trade
and industry. Such are the endless blessings to be
expected from the notable schemes of a philosophic
projector! Strict to a fault where relaxation is neces-
sary; lax to a vice where strictness is essential!

As to " reducing the undefined field of contingen-
cies, and circumscribing discretionary powers over
money," observations similar to those which have
been already made occur. The term reducing im-
plies that the thing must exist in a degree; and in-
deed it is manifest that all the minute casualties of
expenditure, especially in the naval and military
departments, cannot be foreseen and defined. The
question then must be, Have not the limits been
sufficiently narrow for the situation of the govern-
ment in the scenes through which it has passed, com-
prehending for a great part of the time Indian wars
and foreign hostilities? Certainly, if veiwed on a
proportionable scale, the extent appears to have
been as moderate as could have been desired, and no
blame can justly attach to the administration on
this account.

As to ''bringing hack to a single department all
accountabilities for money," there never has been a
deviation from that system. The department of the
Treasury has uniformly preserved a vigilant superin-
tendence over all accountabilities for public money.
A particular accountant, indeed, has been appointed
in the War and Navy departments, but he has been
subordinate to the Treasury Department, which has

Jefferson's Message 311

prescribed regulations for his conduct, and has con-
stantly revised his proceedings. It is true that by
his connection with the particular department for
which he is accountant, there are cases in which he
is to be guided by the directions of the head of that
department; but though these directions, if not
plainly contrary to the rules prescribed by the Treas-
ury, would exempt him from responsibility, the
directions themselves pass under the review of the
Treasury, as a check upon the head of the depart-
ment to which he is attached, and in case of abuse
they would serve to establish a responsibility of the
principal. To say that this interferes with a prompt
examination of accounts, is to affirm that a division
of labor is injurious to dispatch, a position contrary
to all experience. The fact, without doubt, is that
it essentially contributes to dispatch, and that what-
ever new modification may be adopted, either the
accounts of other departments will never keep pace
with the current of business in times of activity, or
that modification must adhere to the principle of
employing distinct organs.

If it be the design to exclude in every case, the
intervention of the head of the particular depart-
ments, some or all of these evils will follow: The
service of that department will suffer by unduly re-
stricting its head, in cases in which he must be the
most competent judge ; and by obliging him, in order
to avoid eventual difficulties, to resort, in the first
instance, to another department, less alive than him-
self to the exigencies of his own, for a cautious and
slow, perhaps a reluctant acquiescence in arrange-

312 Alexander Hamilton

ments which require promptness. If in the spirit of
confidence and accommodation, the officers of the
Treasury yield a ready compliance with the wishes
of the head of such department, they may inad-
vertently co-operate in measures which they would
have disapproved and corrected on a deliberate and
impartial revision. If this spirit be not shown, not
only the immediate service of the department may
be improperly impeded, but sensations unfriendly to
the due harmony of the different members of the
administration may be engendered. On one side of
the dilemma stands collusion, on the other discord.
The existing plan steers a middle and a prudent
course ; neither fettering too much the heads of the
other departments nor relinquishing too far the
requisite control of the Treasury. Its opposite sup-
poses all trust may be placed in one department —
none in the others. The extravagant jealousy of the
overbearing influence of the Treasury Department,
which was so conspicuous in the times of the two
former secretaries, has of a sudden given way to un-
limited confidence! The intention seems to be to
surround the brow of their immaculate successor
with the collected rays of legislative and executive
favor. But vain will be the attempt to add lustre
to the dim luminary of a benighted administration!

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XII

February 23, 1802.

From the manner in which the subject was treated
in the fifth and sixth numbers of the Examination, it

Jefferson's Message 313

has been doubted whether the writer did or did not
entertain a decided opinion as to the power of Con-
gress to aboHsh the offices and compensations of
judges, once instituted and appointed, pursuant to a
law of the United States. In a matter of such high
constitutional moment, it is a sacred duty to be ex-
plicit. The progress of a bill lately brought into the
Senate for repealing the law of the last session, en-
titled, *'An act to provide for the more convenient
organization of the courts of the United States," with
the avowed design of superseding the judges who
were appointed under it, has rendered the question
far more serious than it was while it rested merely on
the obscure suggestion in the Presidential Message.
Till the experiment had proved the fact, it was
hardly to have been imagined that a majority of
either House of Congress, whether from design or
error, would have lent its sanction to a glaring viola-
tion of our national compact, in that article which,
of all others, is the most essential to the efficiency
and stability of the government; to the security of
property; to the safety and liberty of person. This
portentous and frightful phenomenon has, never-
theless, appeared. It frowns with malignant and
deadly aspect upon our Constitution. Probably be-
fore these remarks shall be read, that Constitution will
be no more! It will be numbered among the nu-
merous victims of Democratic frenzy ; and will have
given another and an awful lesson to mankind — the
prelude perhaps of calamities to this country, at the
contemplation of which imagination shudders!
With such a prospect before us, nothing ought to

3^4 Alexander Hamilton

be left unessayed to open the eyes of thinking men
to the destructive projects of those mountebank
politicians, who have been too successful in pervert-
ing public opinion, and in cheating the people out
of their confidence; who are advancing with rapid
strides in the work of disorganization — the sure fore-
runner of tyranny ; and who, if they are not arrested
in their mad career, will, erelong, precipitate our
nation into all the horrors of anarchy.

It would be vanity to expect to throw much ad-
ditional light upon a subject which has already ex-
hausted the logic and eloquence of some of the
ablest men of our country ; yet it often happens that
the same arguments placed in a new attitude and
accompanied with illustrations, which may have
escaped the ardor of a first research, serve both to
fortify and extend conviction. In the hope that
this may be the case, the discussion shall be pursued
with as much perspicuity and brevity as can be
attained.

The words of the Constitution are, ''The judges
both of the supreme and inferior courts shall hold
their offices during good behavior, and shall at stated
times receive for their services a compensation which
shall not be diminished during their continuance in
officer

Taking the literal import of the terms as a criterion
of their true meaning, it is clear that the tenure or
duration of the office is limited by no other condi-
tion than the good behavior of the inctmibent. The
words are imperative, simple, and unqualified: '' The
judges shall hold their offices during good behavior,''

Jefferson's Message 315

Independent therefore of any artificial reasoning to
vary the natural and obvious sense of the words, the
provision must be understood to vest in the judge a
right to the office, indefeasible but by his own mis-
conduct.

It is, consequently, the duty of those who deny
this right to show, either that there are certain pre-
sumptions of intention, deducible from other parts
of the constitutional instrument, or certain general
principles of constitutional law or policy, which
ought to control the literal and substitute a different
meaning.

As to presumptions of intention, different from the
import of the terms, there is not a syllable in the
instrument from which they can be inferred; on
the contrary, the latter member of the clause cited
affords a very strong presumption the other way.

From the injunction, that the compensation of the
judges shall not be diminished, it is manifest that
the Constitution intends to guard the independence
of those officers against the Legislative Department ;
because, to this department alone would have be-
longed the power of diminishing their compensations.

When the Constitution is thus careful to tie up the
Legislature from taking away part of the compensa-
tion, is it possible to suppose that it can mean to
leave that body at full liberty to take away the
whole? The affirmative imputes to the Constitution
the manifest absurdity of holding to the Legislature
this language: " You shall not weaken the independ-
ence of the judicial character by exercising the power
of lessening his emolument, but you may destroy it

3i6 Alexander Hamilton

altogether, by exercising the greater power of anni-
hilating the recompense with the office." No mortal
can be so blind as not to see that, by such a con-
struction, the restraint intended to be laid upon the
Legislature by the injunction not to lessen the com-
pensation, becomes absolutely nugatory.

In vain is a justification sought in that part of the
article which provides that '' the judicial power of the
United States shall be vested in one supreme court,
and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from
time to time ordain and establish." The position
that a discretionary power to institute inferior
courts includes virtually a power to abolish them, if
true, is nothing to the purpose. The abolition of a
court does not necessarily imply that of its judges.
In contemplation of law, the court and the judge are
distinct things. The court may have a legal exist-
ence, though there may be no judge to exercise its
powers. This may be the case either at the original
creation of a court, previous to the appointment of a
judge, or subsequently, by his death, resignation, or
removal. In the last case, it could not be pretended
that the court had become extinct by the event. In
like manner the office of the judge may subsist,
though the court in which he is to officiate may be
suspended or destroyed. The duties of a judge, as
the office is defined in our jurisprudence, are two-
fold— judicial and ministerial. The latter may be
performed out of court, and often without reference
to it. As conservator of the peace, which every
judge is, ex officio, many things are done, not con-
nected with a judicial controversy, or to speak tech-

Jefferson's Message 317

nically, with a lis pendens. This serves to illustrate
the idea that the office is something different from
the court; which is the place or situation for its
principal action, yet not altogether essential to its
activity. Besides, a judge is not the less a judge
when out of court than when in court. The law does
not suppose him to be always in court, yet it does
suppose him to be always in office; in vacation as
well as in term. He has also a property or interest
in his office, which entitles him to civil actions and
recompense in damages for injuries that affect him
in relation to his office ; but he cannot be said to
have a property or interest in the court of which
he is a member. All these considerations confirm
the hypothesis that the court and the judge are
distinct legal entities, and therefore may exist, the
one independently of the other.

If it be replied that the office is an incident to the
court, and that the abolition of the principal includes
that of the incidents, the answer to this is, that the
argimient may be well founded as to all subsequent
appointments, but not as to those previously made.
Though there be no office to be filled in future, it
will not follow that one already vested in an individ-
ual, by a regular appointment and commission, is
thereby vacated and divested. Whether this shall
or shall not happen must depend on what the Con-
stitution or the law has declared with regard to the
tenure of the office. Having pronounced that this
shall be during good behavior, it will preserve the
office to give effect to that tenure for the benefit of
the possessor. To be consistent with itself it will

3i8 Alexander Hamilton

require and prescribe such a modification and con-
struction of its own acts as will reconcile its power
over the future with the rights which have been con-
ferred as to the past.

Let it not be said that an office is a mere trust for
public benefit, and excludes the idea of a property or
a vested interest in the individual. The first part
of the proposition is true — the last false. Every office
combines the two ingredients of an interest in the
possessor and a trust for the public. Hence it is
that the law allows the officer redress, by a civil ac-
tion, for an injury in relation to his office which pre-
supposes property or interest. This interest may be
defeasible at the pleasure of the government, or it
may have a fixed duration, according to the con-
stitution of the office. The idea of a vested interest
holden even by a permanent tenure, so far from
being incompatible with the principle that the pri-
mary and essential end of every office is the public
good, may be conducive to that very end, by pro-
moting a diligent, faithful, energetic, and independ-
ent execution of the office.

But admitting, as seems to have been admitted by
the speakers on both sides of the question, that the
judge must fall with the court, then the only conse-
quence will be that Congress cannot abolish a court
once established. There is no rule of interpretation
better settled than that different provisions in the
same instrument, on the same subject, ought to be
so construed as, if possible, to comport with each
other, and give a reasonable effect to all.

The provision that ''the judiciary power shall be

Jefferson's Message 319

vested in one supreme court, and in such inferior
courts as the Congress may from time to time or-
dain and estabUsh," is immediately followed by this
other provision, '' the judges, both of the supreme and
inferior courts, shall hold their offices during good
behavior."

The proposition that a power to do includes, virtu-
ally, a power to undo, as applied to a legislative body,
is generally but not universally true. All vested
rights form an exception to the rule. In strict
theory there is no lawful or moral power to divest
by a subsequent statute a right vested in an individ-
ual by a prior. And accordingly it is familiar to
persons conversant with legal studies that the repeal
of a law does not always work the revocation or di-
vestiture of such rights.

If it be replied that though a legislature might act
immorally and wickedly in abrogating a vested right,
yet the legal validity of its act for such a purpose
could not be disputed, it may be answered that this
odious position, in any application of it, is liable
to question in every limited constitution (that
is, in every constitution, which, in its theory, does
not suppose the whole power of the nation to be
lodged in the legislative body ') ; and that it is cer-
tainly false, in its application to a legislature, the
authorities of which are defined by a positive written
Constitution, as to every thing which is contrary to
the actual provisions of that Constitution. To deny
this, is to affirm that the delegated is paramount to
the constituent power. It is, in fact, to affirm that

^ As in the Parliament of Great Britain.

320 Alexander Hamilton

there are no constitutional limits to the legislative
authority.

The inquiry, then, must be whether the power to
abolish inferior courts, if implied in that of creating
them, is not abridged by the clause which regulates
the tenure of judicial office.

The first thing which occurs in this investigation
is, that the power to abolish is, at most, an implied
or incidental power, and, as such, will the more read-
ily yield to any express provision with which it may
be inconsistent.

The circumstance of giving to Congress a discre-
tionary power to establish inferior courts, instead of
establishing them specifically in the Constitution,
has, with great reason, been ascribed to the imprac-
ticability of ascertaining beforehand the number and
variety of courts which the development of our na-
tional affairs might indicate to be proper ; especially
in relation to the progress of new settlements and
the creation of new States. This rendered a discre-
tionary power to institute courts indispensable, but
it did not alike render indispensable a power to
abolish those which were once instituted. It was
conceivable that with intelligence, caution, and care,
a plan might be pursued in the institution of courts
which would render abolitions unnecessary. In-
deed, it is not presumable, with regard to establish-
ments of such solemnity and importance, making
part of the organization of a principal department of
the government, that a fluctuation of plans was an-
ticipated. It is therefore not essential to suppose
that the power to destroy was intended to be in-

Jefferson's Message 321

eluded in the power to create. Thus the words,
*'to ordain and estabUsh," may be satisfied by at-
tributing to them only the latter effect. Consequently,
when the grant of the power to institute courts is
immediately succeeded by the declaration that the
judges of those courts shall hold their offices during
good behavior, if the exercise of the power to abolish
the courts cannot be reconciled with the actual hold-
ing or enjoyment of the office, according to the pre-
scribed tenure, it will follow that the power to abolish
is interdicted. The implied or hypothetical power
to destroy the office must give way to the express and
positive right of holding it during good behavior.
This is agreeable to the soundest rules of construc-
tion; the contrary is in subversion of them.

Difference of origin is a justification of the con-
struction, adopted by the advocates of the repeal, at-
tempted to be derived from a distinction between
the supreme and inferior courts. The argument,
that, as the former is established by the Constitution,
it cannot be annulled by a legislative act, though the
latter, which must owe their existence to such an act,
may by the same authority be extinguished, can
afford no greater stability to the office of a judge of
the supreme court than to that of a judge of an in-
ferior court. The Constitution does, indeed, estab-
lish the supreme court; but it is altogether silent as
to the number of judges. This is as fully left to
legislative discretion as the institution of inferior
courts ; and the rule that a power to undo is implied
in the power to do, is therefore no less applicable to
the reduction of the number of the judges of the

VOL. VIII. — 21.

322 Alexander Hamilton

supreme court than to the abolition of the inferior
courts. If the former are not protected by the
clause which fixes the tenure of office, they are no less
at the mercy of the Legislature than the latter. And
if that clause does protect them, its protection must
be equally effectual for the judges of the inferior
courts. Its efficacy, in either case, must be founded
on the principle that it operates as a restraint upon
the legislative discretion; and, if so, there is the like
restraint in both cases, because the very same words
in the very same sentence define conjunctly the ten-
ure of office of the two classes of judges. No soph-
istry can elude this conclusion.

It is therefore plain to a demonstration, that the
doctrine which affirms the right of Congress to abolish
the judges of the inferior courts is absolutely fatal to
the independence of the judiciary department. The
observation that so gross an abuse of power, as would
be implied in the abolition of the judges of the Su-
preme Court, ought not to be supposed, can afford
no consolation against the extreme danger of the
doctrine. The terrible examples before us forbid
our placing the least confidence in that delusive ob-
servation. Experience, sad experience, warns us
to dread every extremity — to be prepared for the
worst catastrophe that can happen.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XIII

February 27, 1802.

The advocates of the power of Congress to abolish
the judges endeavor to induce a presumption of in-

Jefferson's Message 323

tention favorable to their doctrine from this argu-
ment. The provision concerning the tenure of office
(say they) ought to be viewed as a restraint upon the
Executive Department, because, to this department
belongs the power of removal ; in like manner as the
provision concerning the diminution of compensa-
tion ought to be regarded as a restraint upon the
legislative department, because, to this department
belongs the power of regulating compensations. The
different members of the clause ought to be taken
distributively, in conformity with the distribution
of power to the respective departments.

This is certainly the most specious of the argu-
ments which have been used on that side. It has
received several pertinent and forcible answers. But
it is believed to be susceptible of one still more direct
and satisfactory, which is not recollected to have
been yet given.

If, in the theory of the Constitution, there was but
one way of defeating the tenure of office, and that ex-
clusively appertaining to the executive authority, it
would be a natural and correct inference that this
authority was solely contemplated in a constitu-
tional provision upon the subject. But the fact is
clearly otherwise. There are two modes known to
the Constitution in which the tenure of office may be
affected — one, the abolition of the office ; the other, the
removal of the officer. The first is a legislative act,
and operates by removing the office from the person ;
the last is an executive act, and operates by removing
the person from the office. Both equally cause the
tenure, enjoyment, or holding of the office to cease.

324 Alexander Hamilton

This being the case, the inference which has been
drawn fails. There is no ground for the presump-
tion that the Constitution, in establishing the tenure
of an office, had an exclusive eye to one only of the
two modes in which it might be affected. The more
rational supposition is, that it intended to reach and
exclude both; because this alone can fulfil the pur-
pose which it appears to have in view : and it ought
neither to be understood to aim at less than its lan-
guage imports, nor to employ inadequate means for
accomplishing the end which it professes. Or, the
better to elucidate the idea, by placing it in another
form, it may be said that since in the nature of things
the legislative, equally with the executive organ,
may by different modes of action affect the tenure
of office, when the Constitution undertakes to pre-
scribe what that tenure shall be, it ought to be
presumed to intend to guard that which shall have
been prescribed against the interference of either
department.

In an instrument abounding with examples of
restrictions on the legislative discretion, there is
no difficulty in supposing that one was intended in
every case in which it may be fairly inferred, either
from the words used or from the object to be effected.

While the reason which has been stated refers the
provision respecting the tenure of judicial officers as
well to the executive as to the legislative department,
were it necessary to examine to which, if to either of
them, it ought to be deemed most appropriate, there
could be no difficulty in selecting the latter rather
than the former. The tenure of an office is one of its

Jefferson's Message 325

essential qualities. A provision, therefore, which is
destined to prescribe or define this quahty, may be
supposed to have a more pecuHar reference to that
department which is empowered to constitute the
office, either as directory to it in the exercise of its
power, or as fixing what otherwise would be left to
its discretion.

It is constantly to be recollected, that the terms of
the provision do not look particularly to either de-
partment. They are general, " the judges shall hold
their office during good behavior." 'T is not from
the terms, therefore, that an exclusive applicability
to the executive organ can be inferred. On the con-
trary, they must be narrowed, to give them only
this effect.

It is different as to the provision concerning com-
pensations. Though equally general in the terms,
this can have no relation but to the legislative depart-
ment; because, as before observed, that department
alone would have had power to diminish the com-
pensations. But this reason for confining that pro-
vision to one department, namely, the power of
affecting the compensations, so far from dictating a
similar appropriation of the other provision, looks a
different way, and requires by analogy that the latter
should be applied to both the departments, each
having a power of affecting the tenure of office in a
way peculiar to itself. Nor can it be too often re-
peated, because it is a consideration of great force,
that the design, so conspicuous in the former of these
two provisions, to secure the independence of the
judges against legislative influence, is a powerful

326 Alexander Hamilton

reason for understanding the latter in a sense cal-
culated to advance the same important end, rather
than in one which must entirely frustrate it.

A rule of constitutional law opposed to our con-
struction is attempted to be derived from the maxim,
that the power of legislation is always equal, and
that a preceding can never bind or control a suc-
ceeding Legislature by its acts, which therefore must
always be liable to repeal at the discretion of the
successor.

The misapplication or too extensive application of
general maxims or propositions, true in their genuine
sense, is one of the most common and fruitful sources
of false reasoning. This is strongly exemplified in
the present instance. The maxim relied upon can
mean nothing more than that as to all those matters
which a preceding Legislature was free to establish
and revoke, a succeeding Legislature will be equally
free. The latter may do what the former could have
done, or it may undo what the former could have
undone. But unless it can be maintained, that the
power of ordinary legislation is in itself illimitable,
incontroUable, incapable of being bound either by
its own acts or by the injunctions or prohibitions of
a constitution, it will follow, that the body invested
with that power may bind itself, and may bind its
successor ; so that neither itself nor its succsesor can,
of right, revoke acts which may have been once done.
To say that a Legislature may bind itself, but not
its successor, is to affirm that the latter has not
merely an equal but a greater power than the former,
else it could not do what the former was unable to

Jefferson*s Message 327

do. Equality of power only will not suffice for the
argument. On the other hand, to affirm that a
Legislature cannot bind itself, is to assert, that there
can be no valid pledge of the public faith, that no
right can be vested in an individual or collection of
individuals, whether of property, or of any other
description, which may not be resumed at pleasure.

Without doubt, a Legislature binds itself, by all
those acts which engage the public faith; which
confer on individuals permanent rights, either gratu-
itously or for valuable consideration ; and in all these
instances a succeeding one is not less bound. As to
a right which may have been conferred by an ex-
press provision of the Constitution defining the con-
dition of the enjoyment, or as to an institution or
matter, in its nature permanent, which the Con-
stitution may have confided to an act of the Legis-
lature, its authority terminates with the act that
vests the right or makes the establishment. A case
of the first sort is exemplified in the office of a judge ;
of the last, in the creation of a new State, which has
been very pertinently mentioned as a decisive in-
stance of power in a Legislature to do a thing which
being done is irrevocable.

But whatever may be the latitude we assign to the
power of a Legislature over the acts of a predecessor,
it is nothing to the purpose,, so long as it shall be
admitted that the Constitution may bind and con-
trol the Legislature. With this admission, the sim-
ple inquiry must always be — has or has not the
Constitution, in the particular instance, bound the
Legislature? And the solution must be sought in

328 Alexander Hamilton

the language, nature, and end of the provision. If
these warrant the conclusion, that the Legislature
was intended to be bound, it is perfect nonsense to
reply, that this cannot be so, because a Legislature
cannot bind itself by its own acts, or because the
power of one Legislature is equal to that of another.
What signifies this proposition, if the Constitution
has power to bind the Legislature, and has in fact
bound it in a given case? Can a general rule dis-
prove the fact of an exception which it is admitted
may exist ? If so, the argument is always ready, and
equally valid to disprove any limitation of the legis-
lative discretion.

Compelled, as they must be, to desist from the use
of the argument in the extensive sense in which it
has been employed, if its inventors should content
themselves with saying, that at least the principle
adduced by them ought to have so much of force as
to make the exception to it depend on an express pro-
vision, it may be answered, that in the case under
consideration there is an express provision. No
language can be more precise or peremptory than
this: ''The judges, both of the Supreme and Inferior
Courts, shall hold their offices during good behavior. "
If this be not an express provision, it is impossible to
devise one. But the position, that an express pro-
vision is necessary to form an exception, is itself
unfounded. Wherever it is clear, whether by a cir-
cumstance expressed, or by one so implied as to leave
no reasonable doubt, that a limitation of the author-
ity of the Legislature was designed by the Constitu-
tion, the intention ought to prevail.

Jefferson's Message 329

A very strong confirmation of the true intent of
the provision respecting the tenure of judicial office,
results from an argument by analogy. In each of
the articles which establishes any branch of the gov-
ernment, the duration of office is a prominent feature.
Two years for the House of Representatives, six for
the Senate, four for the President and Vice-Presi-
dent, are the respective terms of duration; and for
the judges, the term of good behavior is allotted. It
is presumable, that each was established in the same
spirit, as a point material in the organization of the
government and of a nature to be properly funda-
mental. It will not be pretended that the duration
of office prescribed as to any other department, is
within the reach of legislative discretion. And why
shall that of judicial officers form an exception?
Why shall the Constitution be supposed less tena-
cious of securing to this organ of the sovereign
power a fixed duration than to any other? If there
be any thing which ought to be supposed to be pe-
culiarly excepted out of the power of the ordinary
Legislature, it is emphatically the organization of the
several constituent departments of the government ;
which in our system are the Legislative, Executive,
and Judicial. Reasons of the most cogent nature
recommend that the stability and independence of
the last of these three branches should be guarded
with particular circtimspection and care.

Lucius Crassus.

330 Alexander Hamilton

NO. XIV

March 2, 1802.

In the course of the debate in the Senate, much i
verbal criticism has been indulged : many important
inferences have been attempted to be drawn from
distinctions between the words shall and may. This
species of discussion will not be imitated, because
it is seldom very instructive or satisfactory. These
terms, in particular cases, are frequently synony- |
mous, and are imperative or permissive, directing or
enabling, according to the relations in which they
stand to other words. It is, however, certain, that |
the arguments even from this source, greatly pre-
ponderate against the right of Congress to abolish
the judges.

But there has been one argument, rather of a ver-
bal nature, upon which some stress has been laid,
which shall be analyzed; principally to furnish a
specimen of the wretched expedients to which the
supporters of the repeal are driven. It is this : " The
tenure of an office is not synonymous with its ex-
istence. Though Congress may not annul the tenure
of a judicial office while the office itself continues,
yet it does not follow that they may not destroy its
existence."

The constituent parts of an office are its au-
thorities, duties, and duration. These may be de-
nominated the elements of which it is composed.
Together they form its essence or existence.^ It is
impossible to separate, even in idea, the duration

' The remuneration or recompense is not added, because it is most
properly an accessory.

Jefferson's Message 331

from the existence. The office must cease to exist
when it ceases to have duration. Hence, let it be
observed that the word tenure is not used in the
Constitution, and that in the debate it has been the
substitute for duration. The words: *'The judges
shall hold their offices during good behavior," are
equivalent to these other words: The offices of the
judges shall endure or last so long as they behave
well.

The conclusions from these principles are that ex-
istence is a whole, which includes tenure and dura-
tion as a part; that it is impossible to annul the
existence of an office without destroying its tenure;
and, consequently, that a prohibition to destroy the
tenure is virtually and substantially a prohibition
to abolish the office. How contemptible, then, the
sophism that Congress may not destroy the tenure,
but may annihilate the office!

It has now been seen that this power of annihila-
tion is not reconcilable with the language of the
constitutional instrument, and that no rule of consti-
tutional law, which has been relied upon, will afford
it support. Can it be better defended by any princi-
ple of constitutional policy?

To establish the affirmative of this question, it has
been argued that if the judges hold their offices by a
title absolutely independent of the legislative will,
the judicial department becomes a colossal and over-
bearing power, capable of degenerating into a per-
manent tyranny ; at liberty, if audacious and corrupt
enough, to render the authority of the Legislature
nugatory by expounding away the laws, and to

33^ Alexander Hamilton

assume a despotic control over the rights of person
and property.

To this argument (which supposes the case of a
palpable abuse of power) a plain and conclusive an-
swer is, that the Constitution has provided a com-
plete safeguard in the authority of the House of
Representatives to impeach, of the Senate to condemn.
The judges are in this way amenable to public jus-
tice for misconduct, and, upon conviction, remov-
able from office. In the hands of the Legislature
itself is placed the weapon by which they may be
put down and the other branches of the government
protected. The pretended danger, therefore, is evi-
dently imaginary — the security perfect.

Reverse the medal. Concede to the Legislature
a legal discretion to abolish the judges, where is
the defence? where the security for the judicial de-
partment? There is absolutely none. This most
valuable member of the government, when rightly
constituted the surest guardian of person and
property, of which stability is a prime characteristic,
losing at once its most essential attributes, and
doomed to fluctuate with the variable tide of fac-
tion, degenerates into a disgusting mirror of all the
various malignant and turbulent humors of party
spirit.

Let us not be deceived. The real danger is on the
side of that foul and fatal doctrine, which emboldens
its votaries, with daring front and unhallowed step,
to enter the holy temple of justice and pluck from
their seats the venerable personages, who, under the
solemn sanction of the Constitution, are commis-

Jefferson's Message ^^^

sioned to officiate there — to guard that sacred com-
pact with jealous vigilance — to dispense the laws
with a steady and impartial hand — unmoved by the
storms of faction, unawed by its powers, unseduced
by its favors — shielding right and innocence from
every attack — resisting and repressing violence from
every quarter. 'T is from the triumph of that exe-
crable doctrine that we may have to date the down-
fall of our government, and, with it, of the whole
fabric of republican liberty. Who will have the folly
to deny that the definition of despotism is the con-
centration of all the powers of government in one
person or in one body? Who is so blind as not to
see that the right of the Legislature to abolish the
judges at pleasure, destroys the independence of the
judicial department, and swallows it up in the im-
petuous vortex of legislative influence? Who is so
weak as to hope that the Executive, deprived of so
powerful an auxiliary, will long survive? What dis-
passionate man can withstand the conviction that
the boundaries between the departments will be
thenceforth nominal, and that there will be no longer
more than one active and efficient department?

It is a fundamental maxim of free government,
that the three great departments of power, legisla-
tive, executive, and judiciary, shall be essentially dis-
tinct and independent, the one of the other. This
principle, very influential in most of our State con-
stitutions, has been particularly attended to in the
Constitution of the United States; which, in order
to give effect to it, has adopted a precaution peculiar
to itself, in the provisions that forbid the Legislature

334 Alexander Hamilton

to vary in any way the compensation of the Presi-
dent, or to diminish that of a judge.

It is a principle equally sound, that though in a
government like that of Great Britain, having an
hereditary chief with vast prerogatives, the danger
to liberty, by the predominance of one department
over the other, is on the side of the executive; yet
in popular forms of government, this danger is
chiefly to be apprehended from the legislative branch.

The power of legislation is, in its own nature, the
most comprehensive and potent of the three great
subdivisions of sovereignty. It is the will of the
government; it prescribes universally the rule of
action, and the sanctions which are to enforce it. It
creates and regulates the public force, and it com-
mands the public purse. If deposited in an elective
representative of the people, it has, in most cases,
the body of the nation for its auxiliary, and gener-
ally acts with all the momentum of popular favor.
In every such government it is consequently an organ
of immense strength. But when there is an hered-
itary chief magistrate, clothed with dazzling pre-
rogatives and a great patronage, there is a powerful
counterpoise, which, in most cases, is sufficient to
preserve the equilibrium of the government ; in some
cases, to incline the scale too much to its own side.

In governments wholly popular or representative,
there is no adequate counterpoise. Confidence in the
most numerous, or legislative department, and jeal-
ousy of the executive chief, form the genius of every
such government. That jealousy, operating in the
constitution of the executive, causes this organ to be

Jefferson's Message 335

intrinsically feeble ; and withholding in the course of
administration accessory means of force and influ-
ence, is for the most part vigilant to continue it in
a state of impotence. The result is that the legis-
lative body, in this species of government, possesses
additional resources of power and weight; while the
executive is rendered much too weak for competi-
tion; almost too weak for self-defence.

A third principle, not less well founded than the
other two, is that the judiciary department is natu-
rally the weakest of the three. The sources of
strength to the legislative branches have been briefly
delineated. The executive, by means of its several
active powers, of the dispensation of honors and
emoluments, and of the direction of the public force,
is evidently the second in strength. The judiciary,
on the other hand, can ordain nothing. It commands
neither the purse nor the sword. It has scarcely any
patronage. Its functions are not active but delib-
erative. Its main province is to declare the mean-
ing of the laws; and, in extraordinary cases, it must
even look up to the executive aid for the execution
of its decisions. Its chief strength is in the venera-
tion which it is able to inspire by the wisdom and
rectitude of its judgments.

This character of the judiciary clearly indicates
that it is not only the weakest, of the three depart-
ments of power, but, also, as it regards the security
and preservation of civil liberty, by far the safest.
In a conflict with the other departments, it will be
happy if it can defend itself — to annoy them is be-
yond its power. In vain would it singly attempt

Z?>^ Alexander Hamilton

enterprises against the rights of the citizen. The
other departments could quickly arrest its arm and
punish its temerity. It can only, then, become an
effectual instrument of oppression, when it is com-
bined with one of the more active and powerful
organs; and against a combination of this sort, the
true and best guard is a complete independence of
each and both of them. Its dependence on either
will imply and involve a subserviency to the views
of the department on which it shall depend. Its
independence of both will render it a powerful check
upon the others, and a precious shield to the rights
of persons and property. Safety, liberty, are there-
fore inseparably connected with the real and sub-
stantial independence of the courts and judges.

It is plainly to be inferred from the instrument
itself, that these were governing principles in the
formation of our Constitution: that they were in
fact so, will hereafter be proved by the contemporary
exposition of persons who, having been themselves
members of the body that framed it, must be sup-
posed to have understood the views with which it
was framed. Those principles suggest the highest
motives of constitutional policy against that con-
struction which places the existence of the judges
at the mercy of the Legislature. They instruct us,
that to prevent a concentration of powers, the essence
of despotism, it is essential, that the departments
among which they shall be distributed, should be
effectually independent of each other; and that, it
being impossible to reconcile this independence with
a right in any one or two of them to annihilate at

Jefferson's Message 337

discretion the organs of the other, it is contrary to
all just reasoning to imply or infer such a right. So
far from its being correct, that an express interdic-
tion is requisite to deprive the Legislature of the
power to abolish the judges, the very reverse is the
true position. It would require a more express pro-
vision susceptible of no other interpretation, to con-
fer on that branch of the government an authority
so dangerous to the others, in opposition to the
strong presumptions, which arise from the care taken
in the Constitution, in conformity with the funda-
mental maxims of free governments, to establish and
preserve the reciprocal and complete independence
of the respective branches, first by a separate or-
ganization of the departments, next by a precise
definition of the powers of each, lastly by precau-
tions to secure to each a permanent support.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XV

March 9, 1802.

It is generally understood that the Essays under
the title of the Federalist, which were published at
New York, while the plan of our present Federal
Constitution was under the consideration of the
people, were principally written by two persons '
who had been members of the convention which
devised that plan, and whose names are subscribed
to the instrument containing it. In these essays ""

^ James Madison, now Secretary of State. Alexander Hamilton,

formerly Secretary of Treasury. [Note by A. H.]

* Partictilarly, Nos. xlvii. to li. inclusive, and Nos. Ixxviii. to Ixxxii.

inclusive.

vou vui.— aa.

33^ Alexander Hamilton

the principles advanced in the last number of this
examination are particularly stated and strongly re-
lied upon, in defence of the proposed Constitution ;
from which it is a natural inference that they had
influenced the views with which the plan was di-
gested. The full force of this observation will be
best perceived by a recurrence to the work itself;
but it will appear clearly enough from the following
detached passages.

'' One of the principal objections inculcated by the
more respectable adversaries to the Constitution, is
its supposed violation of the political maxim, that
the legislative, executive, and judicial departments
ought to be separate and distinct. No political truth
is certainly of greater intrinsic value, or is stamped
with the authority of more enlightened patrons of
liberty, than that on which the objection is founded.
The accumulation of all power, legislative, executive,
and judicial, in the same hands, whether of one, a
few, or many ; whether hereditary, self-appointed, or
elective, may justly be pronounced the very defini-
tion of tyranny ^ Neither of the three departments
ought to possess directly or indirectly an overruling
influence over the others in the administration of
their respective powers." ''But the most difficult
task is to provide some practical security for each,
against the invasion of the others. Experience as-
sures us that the efficacy of parchment harriers has
been greatly overrated, and that some more adequate
defence is indispensably necessary for the more feeble
against the more powerful members of the govern-

' No. xlvii.

Jefferson's Message 339

ment. The legislative department is everywhere
extending the sphere of its activity, and drawing all
power into its impetuous vortex." '* In a represent-
ative republic, where the executive magistracy is
carefully limited, both in the extent and the dura-
tion of its power, and where the legislative power is
exercised by an assembly, which is inspired by a
supposed influence over the people with an intrepid
confidence in its own strength; which is sufficiently
numerous to feel all the passions which actuate a
multitude, yet not so numerous as to be incapable of
pursuing the objects of its passions by means which
reason prescribes ; it is against the enterprising ambi-
tion of this department, that the people ought to indulge
all their jealousy and exhaust all their precaution.'"
Again: ''The tendency of republican governments is
to an aggrandizement of the legislative at the expense
of the other departments.''

These passages recognize, as a fundamental maxim
of free government, that the three departments of
power ought to be separate and distinct; conse-
quently that neither of them ought to be able to
exercise, either directly or indirectly, an overruling
influence over any other. They also recognize as a
truth, indicated by the nature of the system and
verified by experience, that in a representative re-
public, the legislative department is the "Aaron's
ROD ' ' most likely to swallow up the rest, and there-
fore to be guarded against with particular care and
caution : and they inculcate that parchment barriers
(or the formal provisions of a Constitution designat-
ing the respective boundaries of authority) having

340 Alexander Hamilton

been found ineffectual for protecting the more feeble
against the more powerful members of the govern-
ment, some more adequate defence, some practical
security, is necessary. What this was intended to
be, will appear from subsequent passages.

"To what expedient shall we finally resort for
maintaining in practice the necessary partition of
power among the several departments as laid down
in the Constitution?" ''As all exterior provisions
are found to be inadequate, the defect must be sup-
plied by so contriving the interior structure of the
government, as that its several constituent depart-
ments may, by their mutual relations, be the means
of keeping each other in their proper places." '

These passages intimate the ''practical security''
which ought to be adopted for the preservation of
the weaker against the stronger members of the gov-
ernment. It is so to be contrived in its interior
structure that the constituent organs may be able to
keep each other in their proper places; an idea essen-
tially incompatible with that of making the existence
of one dependent on the will of another. It will
be seen afterwards how this structure is to be so
contrived.

'' In order to lay a foundation for that separate and
distinct exercise of the different powers of govern-
ment, which, to a certain extent, is admitted on all
hands to be essential to the preservation of liberty,
it is evident that each department should have a
will of its own ; and consequently should be so con-
stituted, that the members of each should have as

I No. li.

Jefferson's Message 341

little agency as possible in the appointment of the
members of the others. This principle, rigorously
adhered to, would require that all the appointments
for the several departments should be drawn from
the same fountain of authority, the people." But in
the constitution of the judiciary department, it might
be inexpedient to insist rigorously on the principle:
first, because peculiar qualifications being essential
in the members, the primary consideration ought to
be to select that mode of choice which best secures
these qualifications; secondly, because the perma-
nent tenure by which the appointments are held in
that department, must soon destroy all sense of
dependence on the authority conferring them.

** It is equally evident that the members of each
department should be as little dependent as possible
on those of the others for the emoluments annexed
to their offices. Were the Executive Magistrate or
the judges not independent of the Legislature in this
particular, their independence in every other would be
merely nominal." "The great security against a
concentration of the several powers in the same
department consists in giving to those who admin-
ister each department the necessary constitutional
means and personal motives to resist encroachments
of the others." ''But it is not possible to give to
each department an equal power of self-defence. In
republican governments the legislative authority
necessarily predominates."

The means held out as proper to be employed for
enabling the several departments to keep each other
in their proper places are: i. To give to each such

342 Alexander Hamilton

an organization as will render them essentially inde-
pendent of one another. 2 . To secure to each a sup-
port which shall not be at the discretionary disposal
of any other. 3. To establish between them such
mutual relations of authority as will make one a
check upon another, and enable them reciprocally to
resist encroachments, and confine one another within
their proper spheres.

To accomplish the first end, it is deemed material
that they should have as little agency as possible
in the appointment of one another, and should all
emanate directly from the same fountain of author-
ity— the people. And that it being expedient to
relax the principle, in respect to the judiciary depart-
ment, with a view to a more select choice of its
organs, this defect in the creation ought to be reme-
died by a permanent tenure of office ; which certainly
becomes nominal and nugatory if the existence of
the office rests on the pleasure of the Legislature.
The principle that the several organs should have as
little agency as possible in the appointment of each
other, is directly opposed to the claim in favor of one
of a discretionary agency to destroy another. The
second of the proposed ends is designed to be effected
by the provisions for fixing the compensations of the
executive and judicial departments. The third, by
the qualified negative of the executive on the acts
of the two houses of Congress; by the right of one
of these houses to accuse, of the other to try and
punish, the executive and judicial officers; and
lastly, by the right of the judges, as interpreters of
the laws, to pronounce unconstitutional acts void.

Jefferson's Message 343

These are the means contemplated by the Consti-
tution for maintaining the Umits assigned to itself,
and for enabling the respective organs of the govern-
ment to keep each other in their proper places, so
that they may not have it in their power to domineer
the one over the other, and thereby in effect, though
not in form, to concentrate the powers in one de-
partment, overturn the government, and establish
a tyranny. Unfortunate, if these powerful precau-
tions shall prove insufficient to accomplish the end
and stem the torrent of the impostor Innovation,
disguised in the specious garb of patriotism!

The views which prevailed in the formation of the
Constitution are further illustrated by these addi-
tional comments from the same source.'

''As liberty can have nothing to fear from the
judiciary alone, but would have every thing to fear
from its union with either of the other departments ;
as all the effects of such a union must ensue from a
dependence of the former on the latter, notwithstand-
ing a nominal and apparent separation ; as from the
natural feebleness of the judiciary it is in continual
jeopardy of being overpowered, awed, or influenced
by its co-ordinate branches ; and as nothing can con-
tribute so much to its firmness and independence as
permanency in office, this quality may therefore be
justly regarded as an indispensable ingredient in its
constitution ; and, in a great measure, as the citadel
of the public justice and the public security."

" The complete independence of the courts of jus-
tice is peculiarly essential in a limited constitution.

' No. Ixxviii.

344 Alexander Hamilton

Limitations can be preserved in practice no other
way than through the meditim of the courts of jus-
tice, whose duty it must be to declare all acts con-
trary to the manifest tenor of the Constitution void."

Then follows a particular discussion of the posi-
tion, that it is the right and the duty of the courts to
exercise such an authority: to repeat which, would
swell this number to an improper size.

The essence of the argument is, that every act of
a delegated authority, contrary to the tenor of the
commission under which it is exercised, is void ; con-
sequently that no Legislative act, inconsistent with
the Constitution, can be valid. That it is not a
natural presumption that the Constitution intended
to make the legislative body the final and exclusive
judges of their own powers; but more rational to
suppose that the courts were designed to be an in-
termediate body between the people and the Legis-
lature, in order, among other things, to keep the
latter within the bounds assigned to its authority:
that the interpretation of the laws being the peculiar
province of the courts, and a Constitution being in
fact a fundamental law, superior in obligation to a
statute, if the Constitution and the statute are at
variance, the former ought to prevail against the
latter; the will of the people against the will of the
agents ; and the judges ought in their quality of in-
terpreters of the laws, to pronounce and adjudge the
truth, namely, that the imauthorized statute is a
nullity.

" Nor (continues the commentor) does this conclu-
sion by any means suppose a superiority of the ju-

Jefferson's Message 345

dicial to the legislative power. It only supposes
that the power of the people is superior to both ; and
that where the will of the Legislature declared in its
statute, stands in opposition to that of the people
declared in the Constitution, the judges ought to be
governed by the latter, rather than the former. They
ought to regulate their decisions by the funda-
mental laws, rather than by those which are not
fundamental.''

'' If, then, the courts of justice are to be considered
as the bulwarks of a limited Constitution against legis-
lative encroachments, this consideration will afford a
strong argument for the permanent tenure of judicial
offices."

But no proposition can be more manifest than
that this permanency of tenure must be nominal, if
made defeasible at the pleasure of the Legislature;
and that it is ridiculous to consider it as an obstacle
to encroachments of the legislative department, if this
department has a discretion to vacate or abolish it
directly or indirectly.

In recurring to the comments which have been
cited, it is not meant to consider them as evidence
of any thing but of the views with which the Con-
stitution was framed. After all, the instrument
must speak for itself. Yet, to candid minds, the
contemporary explanation of it, by men who had
had a perfect opportunity of knowing the views of
its framers, must operate as a weighty collateral
reason for believing the construction agreeing with
this explanation to be right, rather than the op-
posite one. It is too cardinal a point, to admit readily

34^ Alexander Hamilton

the supposition that there was misapprehension ; and
whatever motives may have subsequently occurred
to bias the impressions of the one or the other of the
persons alluded to, the situation in which they wrote
exempts both from the suspicion of an intention to
misrepresent in this particular. Indeed a course of
argument more accommodating to the objections of
the adversaries of the Constitution would probably
have been preferred as most politic, if the truth, as
conceived at the time, would have permitted a modi-
fication. Much trouble would have been avoided by
saying: "The Legislature will have a complete con-
trol over the judges, by the discretionary power of
reducing the number of those of the supreme court,
and of abolishing the existing judges of the inferior
courts, by the abolition of the courts themselves."
But this pretension is a novelty reserved for the
crooked ingenuity of after discoveries.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XVI

March 19, 1802,

The President, as a politician, is in one sense
particularly unfortunate. He furnishes frequent
opportunities of arraying him against himself — of
combating his opinions at one period by his opinions
at another. Without doubt, a wise and good man
may, on proper grounds, relinquish an opinion which
he has once entertained, and the change may even
serve as a proof of candor and integrity. But with
such a man, changes of this sort, especially in mat-
ters of high public importance, must be rare. The

Jefferson's Message 347

contrary is always a mark, either of a weak and
versatile mind, or of an artificial and designing
character; which, accommodating its creed to cir-
cumstances, takes up or lays down an article of
faith, just as may suit a present convenience.

The question in agitation, respecting the judiciary
department, calls up another instance of opposition
between the former ideas of Mr. Jefferson and his
recent conduct. The leading positions which have
been advanced as explanatory of the policy of the
Constitution in the structure of the different depart-
ments and as proper to direct the interpretation of
the provisions, which were contrived to secure the
independence and firmness of the judges, are to be
seen in a very emphatical and distinct form, in the
Notes on Virginia. The passage in which they ap-
pear deserves to be cited at length, as well for its
intrinsic merit, as by way of comment upon the true
character of its author; presenting an interesting
contrast between the maxims, which experience had
taught him while Governor of Virginia, and those
which now guide him as the official head of a great
party in the United States. It is in these words: —

'' All the powers of government, legislative, execu-
tive, and judiciary, result to the legislative body.
The concentrating these in the same hands is pre-
cisely the definition of despotic government. It will
be no alleviation that these powers will be exercised
by a plurality of hands, and not by a single one.
One hundred and seventy-three despots would surely he
as oppressive as one. Let those who doubt it turn
their eyes on the republic of Venice. As little will

34^ Alexander Hamilton

it avail us that they are chosen by ourselves. An
elective despotism was not the government we
fought for; but one which should not only be
founded on free principles, but in which the powers
of government should be so divided and balanced
among several bodies of magistracy, as that no one
could transcend their legal limits without being ef-
fectually checked and restrained by the others. For
this reason, that convention which passed the or-
dinance of government, laid its foundation on this
basis, that the legislative, executive, and judiciary
departments should be separate and distinct, so that
no person should exercise the powers of more than
one of them at the same time. But no harrier was
provided between these several powers. The judiciary
and executive members were left dependent on the
legislative for their subsistence in office, and some of
them for their continuance in it. If, therefore, the
Legislature assumes executive and judiciary powers,
no opposition is likely to be made, — nor if made, can
be effectual; because, in that case, they may put
their proceedings into the form of an act of assembly,
which will render them obligatory on the other
branches. They have accordingly in many instances
decided rights which should have been left to judiciary
controversy; and the direction of the Executive, during
the whole time of their session, is becoming habitual
and familiar.'"

This passage fully recognizes these several im-
portant truths: that the tendency of our govern-
ments is towards a concentration of the powers
of the different departments in the legislative

Jefferson's Message 349

body; that such a concentration is precisely the
DEFINITION of DESPOTISM, and that an effectual
harrier between the respective departments ought
to exist. It also, by a strong implication, admits
that officers during good behavior are independent of
their Legislature for their continuance in office. This
implication seems to be contained in the following
sentence: ''The judiciary and executive members
were left dependent on the Legislature for their sub-
sistence in office, and some of them for their continu-
ance in it,'' The word ''some''' implies that others
were not left thus dependent; and to what descrip-
tion of officers can the exception be better applied
than to the judges, the tenure of whose offices was
during good behavior?

The sentiments of the President, delivered at a
period when he can be supposed to have been under
no improper bias, must be regarded by all those who
respect his judgment, as no light evidence of the
truth of the doctrine for which we contend. Let
us, however, resume and pursue the subject on its
merits, without relying upon the aid of so variable
and fallible an authority.

At an early part of the discussion in this examina-
tion, a construction of the Constitution was sug-
gested, to which it may not be amiss to return. It
amounts to this, that Congress, have power to new-
model, or even to abrogate, an inferior court, but not
to abolish the office or emoluments of a judge of such
court previously appointed. In the Congressional
debates, some of the speakers against the repealing
law appear to have taken it for granted, that the

350 Alexander Hamilton

abrogation of the court must draw with it the abolition
of the judges, and therefore have denied in totaHty
the power of abrogation. In the course of these
papers, too, it has been admitted, that if the pre-
servation of the judges cannot be reconciled with
the power to annul the court, then the existence of
this power is rightly denied. But in an affair of such
vast magnitude, it is all important to survey with the
utmost caution the ground to be taken, and then to
take and maintain it with inflexible fortitude and
preseverance. Truth will be most likely to prevail,
when the arguments which support it stop at a tem-
perate mean, consistent with practical convenience.
Excess is always error. There is hardly any theo-
retic hypothesis which, carried to a certain extreme,
does not become practically false. In construing a
Constitution, it is wise, as far as possible, to pursue a
course, which will reconcile essential principles with
convenient modifications. If guided by this spirit,
in the great question which seems destined to decide
the fate of our government, it is believed that the
result will accord with the construction, that Con-
gress have a right to change or abolish inferior courtSy
but not to abolish the actual judges.

Towards the support of this construction, it has
been shown in another place, that the courts and the
judges are distinct legal entities, which, in contem-
plation of law, may exist, independently the one of
the other — mutually related, but not inseparable.
The act proposed to be repealed exemplifies this
idea in practice. It abolishes the District Courts of
Tennessee and Kentucky, and transfers their judges

Jefferson's Message 351

to one of the Circuit Courts. Though the authori-
ties and jurisdiction of those courts are vested in the
Circuit Court, to which the judges are transferred;
yet the identity of the courts ceases. It cannot be
maintained that courts, so different in their organ-
ization and jurisdiction, are the same; nor could a
legislative transfer of the judges have been con-
stitutional, but upon the hypothesis, that the office
of a judge may survive the court of which he is a
member. A new appointment by the Executive, of
two additional judges, for the Circuit Court, would
otherwise have been necessary.

This precedent in all its points is correct, and ex-
hibits a rational operation of the construction which
regards the office of the judge as distinct from the
court; as one of the elements, or constituent parts,
of which it is composed; not as a mere incident
that must perish with its principal.

It will not be disputed, that the Constitution
might have provided in terms, and with effect, that
an inferior court which had been established by law
might by law be abolished, so, nevertheless, that
the judges of such court should retain the offices of
judges of the United States with the emoluments
before attached to their offices. The operation of
such a provision would be, that when the court was
abolished, all the functions to be executed in that
court would be suspended, and the judge could only
continue to exert the authorities and perform the
duties, which might before have been performed,
without reference to causes pending in court; but he
would have the capacity to be annexed to another

352 Alexander Hamilton

court, without the intervention of a new appoint-
ment, and by that annexation, simply to renew the
exercise of the authorities and duties which had
been suspended.

If this might have been the effect of positive and
explicit provision, why may it not likewise be the
result of provisions which, presenting opposite con-
siderations, point to the same conclusion: as a com-
promise calculated to reconcile those considerations
with each other and to unite different objects of
public utility? Surely the affirmative infringes no
principle of legal construction; transgresses no rule
of good sense.

Let us then inquire, whether there are not in
this case opposite and conflicting considerations, de-
manding a compromise of this nature? On the one
hand, it is evident, that if an inferior court once,
instituted, though found inconvenient, cannot be
abolished, this is to entail upon the community the
mischief, be it more or less, of a first error in the ad-
ministration of the government; on the other hand,
it is no less evident, that if the judges hold their
offices at the discretion of the Legislature, they
cease to be co-ordinate, and become a dependent
branch of the government; from which dependence,
mischiefs infinitely greater are to be expected.

All these mischiefs, the lesser as well as the greater,
are avoided by saying: ''Congress may abolish the
courts, hut the judges shall retain their offices with the
appertinent emoluments.'' The only remaining in-
convenience then will be one too insignificant to
weigh in a national scale, that is, the expense of the

JefFerson*s Message 353

compensations of the incumbents during their Hves.
The future and permanent expense will be done
away.

But will this construction secure the benefits in-
tended by the Constitution to be derived from the
INDEPENDENT TENURE OF JUDICIAL OFFICE? Sub-
stantially it will. The main object is to preserve
the judges from being influenced by an apprehension
of the loss of the advantages of office. As this loss
could not be incurred, that influence would not exist.
Their firmness could not be assailed by the danger of
being superseded, and perhaps consigned to want.
Let it be added, that when it was once understood
not to be in the power of the Legislature to deprive
the judges of their offices and emoluments, it would
be a great restraint upon the factious motives which
might induce the abolition of a court. This would be
much less likely to happen unless for genuine reasons
of public utility; and of course there would be a
much better prospect of the stability of judiciary

establishments.

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XVII

March 20, 1802.

It was intended to have concluded the argument
respecting the judiciary department with the last
number. But a speech ' lately delivered in the
House of Representatives having since appeared,
which brings forward one new position, and reiterates
some others in a form well calculated to excite

I By Mr. Giles.

VOL. Vlll. — 23.

354 Alexander Hamilton

prejudice, it may not be useless to devote some
further attention to the subject.

The new position is, that the clause of the Con-
stitution enabling the judges to hold their offices
during good behavior, ought to be understood to
have reference to the Executive only, because all

OFFICES ARE HOLDEN OF THE PRESIDENT!!

This is the second example of a doctrine contrary
to every republican idea, broached in the course of
this debate by the advocates of the repealing law.'
Had a Federalist uttered the sentiment, the cry of
monarchy would have resounded from one extremity
of the United States to the other. It would have
been loudly proclaimed that the mask was thrown
aside, by a glaring attempt to transform the servants
of the people into the supple tools of Presidential
ambition. But now, to justify a plain violation of
the Constitution, and serve a party purpose, this bold
and dangerous position is avowed without hesita-
tion or scruple, from a quarter remarkable, chiefly,
for the noisy promulgation of popular tenets.

The position is not correct; and it is of a nature
to demand the indignant reprobation of every real
republican. In the theory of all the American Con-
stitutions, offices are holden of the government, in
other words, of the People through the Govern-
ment. The appointment is indeed confided to a
particular organ, and in instances in which it is not
otherwise provided by the Constitution or the laws,

* The other is the denial of the right of the courts to keep the Legis-
lature within its constitutional bounds by pronouncing laws which
transgress them inoperative.

Jefferson's Message 355

the removal of the officer is left to the pleasure or
discretion of that organ. But both these acts sup-
pose merely an instrumentality of the organ, from
the necessity or expediency of the people's acting in
such case by an agent. They do not suppose the
substitution of the agent to the people, as the object
of the fealty or allegiance of the officer.

It is said that the word holden is a technical term
denoting tenure, and implying that there is one who
holds; another of whom the thing is holden. This
assertion is, indeed, agreeable to the common use of
the word in our law books. But it is hardly to be
presumed that it was employed in the Constitution
in so artificial a sense. It is more likely that it was
designed to be the equivalent of the words possess,
enjoy. Yet, let the assertion be supposed correct.
In this case it must also be remembered that the term
in this technical sense includes two things — the quan-
tity of interest in the subject holden and the merit-
orious consideration upon which the grant is made ;
which in many cases includes service or rent, in all
fealty ; this last forming emphatically the link or tie
between the lord and the tenant, the sovereign and
the officer. Will any one dare to say that fealty
or allegiance, as applied to the government of the
United States, is due from the officer to the Presi-
dent? Certainly it is not. It is due to the people in
their political capacity. If so, it will follow that the
office is holden not of the President, but of the Na-
tion, State, or Government.

It is remarkable that the Constitution has every-
where used the language, ''Officers of the United

35^ Alexander Hamilton

States," as if to denote the relation between the
officer and the sovereignty; as if to exclude the
dangerous pretension that he is the mere creature
of the Executive ; accordingly, he is to take an oath
to support the ''Constitution"; that is, an oath of
fidelity to the government ; but no oath of any kind ^
to the President. {

In the theory of the British Government it is en-
tirely different; there the majesty of the nation is
understood to reside in the prince. He is deemed
the real sovereign. He is, emphatically, the fount-
ain of honor. Allegiance is due to him; and, con-
sequently, public offices are, in the true notion of
tenure, holden of him. But in our Constitution the
President is not the sovereign; the sovereignty is
vested in the government, collectively; and it is of
the sovereignty, strictly and technically speaking,
that a public officer holds his office.

If this view of the matter be just, the basis of the
argument, in point of fact, fails ; and the principle of
it suggests an opposite conclusion, namely, that the
condition of good behavior is obligatory on the whole
government, and ought to operate as a barrier against
any authority by which the displacement of the
judges may be directly or indirectly effected.

In the same speech much stress has been laid on
the words, ''during their continuance in office," as
implying that the compensation of the judge was
liable to cease by a legislative discontinuance of the
office. If the words had been, during the continu-
ance of the o-fflce, the argument would have been per-
tinent— but as they stand, a different inference, if

Jefferson's Message 357

any, is to be drawn from them. They seem rather
to relate to the continuance of the officer than to that
of the office. But, in truth, an inference either way
is a pitiful subtilty. The clause is neutral ; its plain
and simple meaning being that the compensation
shall not be diminished while the judge retains the
office. It throws no light whatever on the question
how he may lawfully cease to possess it.

Another point is pressed with great earnestness
and with greater plausibility. It is this: that the
Constitution must have intended to attach recom-
pense to service, and cannot be supposed to have
meant to bestow compensation where, in the opinion
of the Legislature, no service was necessary. With-
out doubt, the Constitution does contemplate serv-
ice as the ground of compensation; but it likewise
takes it for granted that the Legislature will be cir-
cumspect in the institution of offices ; and especially
that it will be careful to establish none of a permanent
nature which will not be permanently useful. With
this general presumption the Constitution antici-
pates no material inconvenience from the perman-
ency of judicial offices connected with permanent
emoluments. And though it should have foreseen
that cases might happen in which the service was
not needed, yet there is no difficulty whatever in the
supposition that it was willing to encounter the
trivial contingent evil of having to maintain a few
superfluous officers, in order to obtain the immense
good of establishing and securing the independence
of the courts of justice. The readiness of the officer
to render service at the will of the government is the

35^ Alexander Hamilton

consideration, as to him, for continuing the compen-
sation. But the essential inducement is the public
utility incident to the independency of the judicial
character. As to the supposition of an enormous
abuse of power by creating a long list of sinecures
and a numerous host of pensioners, whenever such a
thing shall happen, it will constitute one of those ex-
treme cases which, on the principle of necessity, may
authorize extra-constitutional remedies. But these
are cases which can never be appealed to for the in-
terpretation of a Constitution, which, in meting out
the powers of the government, must be supposed to
adjust them on the presumption of a fair execution.
A further topic of argument is, that our doctrine
would equally restrain the Legislature from abolish-
ing offices held during pleasure. But this is not
true. The two things stand on different ground.
First, the Executive has such an agency in the enact-
ing of laws, that, as a general rule, the displacement
of the officer cannot happen against his pleasure.
Second, the pleasure of the President, in all cases
not particularly excepted, is understood to be sub-
ject to the direction of the law. Third, an officer
during pleasure, having merely a revocable interest,
the abolition of his office is no infringement of his
right. In substance, he is a tenant at the will of the
government, liable to be discontinued by the execu-
tive organ, in the form of a removal ; by the legis-
lative, in the form of an abolition of the office. These
different considerations reconcile the legislative au-
thority to abolish, with the prerogative of the Chief
Magistrate to remove, and with the temporary right

Jefferson's Message 359

of individuals to hold. And therefore there is no
reason against the exercise of such an authority;
nothing to form an exception to the general competency
of the legislative power to provide for the public wel-
fare. Very different is the case as to the judges.
The most persuasive motives of public policy, the
safety of liberty itself, require that the judges shall
be independent of the legislative body; in order
to maintain effectually the separation between the
several departments. The provision that their com-
pensation shall not be diminished, is a clear con-
stitutional indication that their independence was
intended to be guarded against the Legislature.
The express declaration that they shall hold their
offices during good behavior — that is, upon a condi-
tion dependent on themselves, is repugnant to the
hypothesis that they shall hold at the mere pleasure
of others. Provisions which profess to confer rights
on individuals, are always entitled to a liberal in-
terpretation in support of the rights, and ought
not, without necessity, to receive an interpretation
subversive of them. Provisions which respect the
organization of a co-ordinate branch of the govern-
ment, ought to be construed in such a manner as to
procure for it stability and efficiency, rather than
in such a manner as to render it weak, precarious,
and dependent. These various and weighty reasons
serve to establish strong lines of discrimination be-
tween judicial and other officers; and to prove that
no inference can be drawn from the power of the
Legislature as to the latter, which will be applicable
to the former.

3^0 Alexander Hamilton

One more defence of this formidable claim is at-
tempted to be drawn from the example of the judici-
ary establishment of Great Britain. It is observed
that this establishment, the theme of copious eulogy
on account of the independence of the judges, places
those officers upon a footing far less firm than will be
that of the judges of the United States, even admit-
ting the right of Congress to abolish their offices by
abolishing the courts of which they are members.
And as one proof of the assertion, it is mentioned,
that the English judges are removable by the king,
on the address of the two houses of Parliament.

All this might be very true, and yet would prove
nothing as to what is or ought to be the construction
of our Constitution on this point. It is plain from
the provisions respecting compensation, that the
framers of that Constitution intended to prop the
independence of our judges, beyond the precautions
which have been adopted in England in respect to
the judges of that country; and the intention ap-
parent in this particular is an argument that the
same spirit may have governed other provisions.
Cogent reasons have been assigned, applicable to our
system, and not applicable to the British system,
for securing the independence of our judges against
the legislative as well as against the executive
power.

It is alleged that the statute of Great Britain of
the 13 of William III. was the model from which the
framers of our Constitution copied the provisions for
the independence of our judiciary. It is certainly
true, that the idea of the tenure of office during good

Jefferson's Message 361

behavior, found in several of our constitutions, is
borrowed from that source. But it is evident that
the framers of our federal system did not mean to
confine themselves to that model. Hence the re-
straint of the legislative discretion, as to compensa-
tion; hence the omission of the provision for the
removal of the judges by the Executive, on the ap-
plication of the two branches of the Legislature — a
provision which has been imitated in some of the
State governments.

This very omission affords no light inference, that
it was the intention to depart from the principle of
making the judges removable from office, by the
co-operation or interposition of the legislative body.
Why else was this qualification of the permanent
tenure of the office, which forms a conspicuous
feature in the British statute, and in some of the
State constitutions, dropped in the plan of the fed-
eral government?

The insertion of it in the British statute may also
be supposed to have been indicated by the opinion
that without a special reservation, the words during
good behavior would have imported an irrevocable
tenure. If so, the precaution will serve to fortify
our construction.

But, however it may seem in theory, in fact the
difference in the genius of the two governments
would tend to render the independence of the
judges more secure under the British statute than it
would be in this country, upon the construction
which allows to Congress the right to abolish. The
reason is this: From the Constitution of the British

1^2 Alexander Hamilton

monarchy, the thing chiefly to be apprehended is an
overbearing influence of the crown upon the judges.
The jealousy of executive influence resting upon more
powerful motives in that country than in this, it may
be expected to operate as a stronger obstacle there
than here to an improper combination between the
executive and legislative departments to invade the
judiciary. Moreover, the British Executive has
greater means of resisting parliamentary control
than an American Executive has of resisting the
control of an American Legislature; consequently
the former would be in less danger than the latter, of
being driven to a concurrence in measures hostile to
the independence of the judges. And in both these
ways, there would be greater security for the British
than for the American judges.

Thus is it manifest, that in every attitude in which
the subject has been placed, the argument is vic-
torious against the power of Congress to abolish the
judges. But what, alas! avails the demonstration
of this important truth? The fatal blow has been
struck! It is no longer possible to arrest the rash
and daring arm of power! Can the proof that it
has acted without right, without warrant, can this
heal the wound ? can this renovate the perishing Con-
stitution ? Yes, let us hope that this will be the case.
Let us trust that the monitory voice of true patriot-
ism will at length reach the ears of a considerate
people, and will rouse them to a imited and vigorous
exertion for the restoration of their violated char-
ter; not by means, either disorderly or guilty, but
by means which the Constitution will sanction and

Jefferson's Message 363

reason approve. Surely this will be so. A people
who, descrying tyranny at a distance, and guided only
by the light of just principles, before they had yet
felt the scourge of oppression, could nobly hazard all
in defence of their rights; a people who, sacrificing
their prejudices on the altar of experience, and spum-
ing the artifices of insidious demagogues, could, as a
deliberate act of national reason, adopt and establish
for themselves a Constitution which bid fair to im-
mortalize their glory and their happiness: such a
people, though misled for a period, will not be the
final victims of a delusion, alike inauspicious to their
reputation and to their welfare. They will not long
forget the fame they have so justly merited, nor give
the world occasion to ascribe to accident what has
hitherto been imputed to wisdom. They will dis-
dain to herd with the too long list of degraded na-
tions, who have bowed their necks to unworthy idols
of their own creating — who, immolating their best
friends at the shrine of falsehood, have sunk under
the yoke of sycophants and betrayers. They will
open their eyes and see the precipice on which they
stand! They will look around and select from
among the throng, the men who have heretofore
established a claim to their confidence on the solid
basis of able and faithful service ; and they will, with
indignation and scorn, banish from their favor the
wretched impostors who, with honeyed lips and
guileful hearts, are luring them to destruction ! Ad-
monished by the past, and listening again to the
counsels of real friends, they will make a timely re-
treat from the danger which threatens; they will

3^4 Alexander Hamilton

once more arrange themselves under the banners of
the Constitution; with anxious care will repair the
breaches that have been made, and will raise new
mounds against the future assaults of open or secret
enemies!

Lucius Crassus.

NO. XVIII

April 8, 1802.

In order to cajole the people, the message abounds
with all the commonplace of popular harangue, and
prefers claims of merit, for circumstances of equi-
vocal or of trivial value. With pompous absurdity
are we told of the ''multiplication of men, susceptible
of happiness'' (as if this susceptibility were a privi-
lege peculiar to our climate), ''habituated to self-
government, and valuing its blessings above all price. ' '
Fortunate it will be, if the present favorites of the
people do not, before their reign is at an end, trans-
form those blessings into curses, so serious and
heavy, as to make even despotism a desirable refuge
from the elysium of democracy.

In a country, the propensities of which are op-
posed even to necessary burdens, an alarm is at-
tempted to be excited about the general tendency of
government, " to leave to labor the smallest portion
of its earnings on which it can subsist, and to con-
sume the residue of what it was instituted to guard."
It might have been well to have explained whether
it is the whole of the earnings of labor which govern-
ment is instituted to guard, or only the residue after
deducting what is necessary to enable it to fulfil the

Jefferson^s Message 365

duty of protection. Representatives who share with
their constituents in an excessive jealousy of executive
abuses, are cantingly admonished to " circumscribe
discretionary powers over money," though they are
known to be already so limited, as that the Execu-
tive, even on the prospect of a rupture with a foreign
power, would not possess the means of obtaining in-
telligence the most necessary for the proper direction
of its measures. That the new administration has
not boldly invaded the laws and withheld the funds
applicable to the payment of the principal and in-
terest of the public debt, is fastidiously proclaimed
as evidence that '' the public faith has been exactly
maintained." The praise of a spirit of economy is
attempted to be gained by the suppression of a
trifling number of officers (a majority of whom had
become unnecessary by the mere change of circum-
stances), and by declaiming, with affectation, against
''the multiplication of officers and the increase of ex-
pense.'' The proposition to reduce our insignificant
military establishment (the actual number of troops
probably not exceeding that which is intended to be
retained) cannot be suggested, without tickling our
ears with the trite but favorite maxim, that "a
standing army ought not to he kept up in time of peace.''
To make a display of concern for their prosperity,
agriculture, manufactures, commerce, and navigation
are introduced among the pageants of the piece;
but, except as ''to protection from casual embarrass-
ments," we are sagaciously informed that these
*' GREAT PILLARS of our prosperity ought to be left to
take care of themselves. ' ' The carrying trade, however,

3^6 Alexander Hamilton

seems to engage more solicitude; no doubt that
we may be terrified by the expectation of future
evils, from a much-traduced instrument,' which in
time past has done nothing but good, in spite of the
gloomy predictions of patriotic seers.

Such are the minor features of this curious per-
formance. Had these been its only blemishes, a re-
gard to national reputation would have forbidden a
comment; but connected as they are with schemes
of innovation replete with great present mischief,
and still greater future danger ; designed as they are
to varnish over projects which threaten to precipitate
our nation from an enviable height of prosperity to
that low and abject state from which it was raised by
the establishment and wise administration of our
present government, they become entitled to notice
as additional indications of character and disposi-
tion.

The merits of the message have now been pretty
fully discussed ; but before it is dismissed it may be
useful to take a view of it in another and a different
light — as one link in a chain of testimony which the
force of circumstances, at every step of the new ad-
ministration, extorts from them, in favor of their
predecessors.

The President, on the threshold of office, at the
first opportunity, of speaking to his constituents, in
his very inaugural speech, full of a truth which the
most rancorous prejudice cannot obscure, and not
sufficiently reflecting on the inferences which would
be drawn, proclaims aloud to the world, that a gov-

* The treaty with Great Britain.

Jefferson's Message 367

ernment which he had disapproved in its institution,
and virulently opposed in its progress, was in the

FULL TIDE OF SUCCESSFUL EXPERIMENT. In the last

address he again unconsciously becomes the pane-
gyrist of those whom he seeks to depreciate. The
situation in which (humanly speaking) we have been
preserved by the prudent and firm councils of the
preceding administrations, amidst the revolutionary
and convulsive throes, amidst the desolating con-
flicts, of Europe, is there a theme of emphatic gratu-
lation. It shall not be forgotten, as the solitary
merit of the address, that we are reminded of the
gratitude due to Heaven for the blessings of this situa-
tion. Amidst the spurious symptoms of a spirit of
reform, it is consoling to observe one which, in char-
ity, ought to be supposed genuine. But it would
not have diminished oiu* conviction of its sincerity,
if the instruments of Providence, in the accomplish-
ment of the happy work, had not been entirely
overlooked ; since this would have been evidence of
a willingness to acknowledge and retract error — to
make reparation for injury. But though they have
been overlooked by the message, the American peo-
ple ought never for a moment to forget them. Their
efforts and their struggles, their moderation and
their energy, their care and their foresight; the mad
and malignant opposition of their political adver-
saries ; the charges of pusillanimity and perfidy lav-
ished on the declaration of neutrality ; the resistance
to measures for avoiding a rupture with Great Brit-
ain; the attempt to rush at once into reprisals; the
cry for war with the enemies of France, as the enemies

368 Alexander Hamilton

of republican liberty; — all these things should be
forever imprinted on the memory of a just and
vigilant nation. And in recollecting them, they
should equally recollect that the opposers of the
salutary plans to which they are so much indebted,
were and are the zealous partisans of the present
head of our government ; who have at all times sub-
mitted to his influence and implicitly obeyed his
nod; who never would have pursued with so much
vehemence the course they did, had they known it to
be contrary to the views of their chief : nor should it
be forgotten that this chief, in the negotiation with
the British minister, conducted by him as Secretary
of State, acted precisely as if it had been his design
to widen, not to heal, the breach between the two
countries ; that he at first objected to the declaration
of neutrality; was afterwards reluctantly dragged
into the measures connected with it; was believed
by his friends not to approve the system of conduct
of which he was the official organ ; was publicly and
openly accused by the then agent of the French re-
public with duplicity and deception, with having
been the first to inflame his mind with ill impres-
sions of the principles and views of leading characters
in our government, not excepting the revered
Washington; that this chief, at a very critical pe-
riod of our affairs in reference to the war of Europe,
withdrew from the direction of that department
peculiarly charged with the management of our
foreign relations, evidently to avoid being more
deeply implicated in the consequences of the position
which had been assumed by the administration, but

JefFerson*s Message 369

on the hollow pretence of a dislike to public life and
a love of philosophic retirement. Citizens of Amer-
ica, mark the sequel and learn from it instruction!
You have been since agitated to the centre, to raise
to the first station in your government the very man
who, at a conjuncture when your safety and your
welfare demanded his stay, early relinquished a
subordinate but exalted and very influential post,
on a pretence as frivolous as it has proved to be
insincere! Was he, like the virtuous Washington,
forced from a beloved retreat by the unanimous and
urgent call of his country ? No ; he stalked forth the
champion of faction — having never ceased in the
shade of his retreat, by all the arts of intrigue, to
prepare the way to that elevation for which a rest-
less ambition impatiently panted.

The undesigned eulogy of the men who have been
slandered out of the confidence of their fellow-citizens,
has not been confined to the situation of the country
as connected with the war of Europe. In the view
given of the very flourishing state of our finances, the
worst of the calumnies against those men is refuted,
and it is admitted, that in this article of vital im-
portance to the public welfare, their measures have
been provident and effectual beyond example. To
the charge of a design to saddle the nation with a
perpetual debt, a plain contradiction is given by the
concession, that the provisions which have been
made for it are so ample, as even to justify the re-
linquishment of a part no less considerable than
the whole of the internal revenue. The same proposal
testifies the brilliant success of our fiscal system

VOL. VIII.— 24.

370 Alexander Hamilton

generally ; and that it is more than equal to all that
has been undertaken, to all that has been promised
to the nation.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury, as
published, confirms this high commendation of the
conduct of the former administrations. After reliev-
ing each State from the burden of its particular debt,
by assuming the payment of it on account of the
United States, in addition to the general debt of
the nation ; after settling the accounts between the
States relatively to their exertions for the common
defence in our revolutionary war, and providing for
the bala,nces found due to such of them as were
creditors; after maintaining, with complete success,
an obstinate and expensive war with the Indian
tribes; after making large disbursements for the
suppression of two insurrections against the govern-
ment; after liberal contributions to the Barbary
powers, to induce them to open to our merchants
the trade of the Mediterranean; after incurring a
responsibility for indemnities to a large amount, due
to British merchants, in consequence of infractions
of the treaty of peace by some of the States; after
heavy expenditures for creating and supporting a
navy, and for other preparations, to guard our in-
dependence and territory against the hostilities of
a foreign nation; — after the accomplishment of all
these very important objects, it is now declared to
the United States, by the present head of the Treas-
ury, by the confidential minister of the present Chief
Magistrate, by the most subtle and implacable of
the enemies of the former administrations, '' That the

Jefferson's Message 371

actual revenues of the Union are sufficient to defray
all the expenses, civil and military^ of government, to
the extent authorized by existing laws; to meet all

THE ENGAGEMENTS OF THE UNITED STATES ; and tO

discharge in fifteen years and a half the whole of
OUR public debt" — foreign as well as domestic,
new as well as old. Let it be understood, that the
revenues spoken of were all provided under the two
first administrations; and that the ''existing laws"
alluded to were all passed under the same adminis-
trations; consequently, that the revenues had not been
increased, nor the expenses diminished, by the men
who now hold the reins; and then let it be asked,
whether so splendid a result does not reflect the high-
est credit on those who in time past have managed
the affairs of the nation? Does not the picture fur-
nish matter not only for consolation, but even for
exultation, to every true friend of his country?
And amidst the joy which he must feel in the con-
templation, can he be so unjust as to refuse the
tribute of commendation to those by whose labors
his country has been placed on so fair an eminence ?
Will he endure to see any part of the fruits of those
labors blasted or hazarded, by a voluntary surrender
of any portion of the means which are to insure the
advantages of so bright a prospect?

In vain will envy or malevolence reply: "The
happy situation in which we are placed is to be
attributed, not to the labors of those who have here-
tofore conducted our affairs, but to an unforeseen
and unexpected progress of our country." Candor
and truth will answer : Praise is always due to public

372 Alexander Hamilton

men who take their measures in such a manner
as to derive to the nation the benefit of favorable
circumstances which are possible, as well as of those
which are foreseen. If proportionate provision had
not been made, concurrently with the progress of
our national resources, the effect of them would not
have been felt as to the past, and would not have
been matured as to the future.

But why should it be pretended that the progress
was not anticipated? In past experience, there
were many data for calculation. The ratio of the
increase of our population had been observed and
stated ; the extent and riches of our soil were known ;
the materials for commercial enterprise were no
secret; the probable effect of the measures of the
government, to foster and encourage navigation,
trade, and industry, was well understood; and espe-
cially, the influence of the means which were adapted
to augment our active capital, and to supply a fit
and adequate medium of circulation, towards the
increase of national wealth, was declared and insisted
upon, in official reports. Though adventitious cir-
cumstances may have aided the result, it is certain,
that a penetrating and comprehensive mind could
be at no loss to foresee a progress to our affairs,
similar to what has been experienced. Upon this
anticipation, the assumption of the State debts,
and other apparently bold measures of the govern-
ment, were avowedly predicated, in opposition to the
feeble and contracted views of the little politi-
cians, who now triumph in the success of their arts,
and enjoy the benefits of a policy, which they had

Lansing or Burr 373

neither the wisdom to plan nor the spirit to adopt;
idly imagining that the cunning of a demagogue and
the talents of a statesman are synonymous. Con-
summate in the paltry science of courting and win-
ning popular favor, they falsely infer that they have
the capacity to govern, and they will be the last to
discover their error. But let them be assured that
the people will not long continue the dupes of their
pernicious sorceries. Already the cause of truth has
derived this advantage from the crude essays of their
chief, that the film has been removed from many an
eye. The credit of great abilities was allowed him
by a considerable portion of those who disapproved
his principles; but the short space of nine months
has been amply sufficient to dispel that illusion ; and
even some of his most partial votaries begin to sus-
pect that they have been mistaken in the object

OF THEIR IDOLATRY.

Lucius Crassus.

LANSING OR BURR '

reasons why it is desirable that MR. LANSING
RATHER THAN COL. BURR SHOULD SUCCEED

": , 1804.
I. Col. Burr has steadily pursued the track of
democratic politics. This he has done either from

^ Burr was in the midst of his fight with Jefferson, and Lansing re-
ceived the regular Democratic nomination for Governor. Burr made
a split, also received a nomination, and looked to the Federalists for
support. Five days before Burr was nominated a meeting of leading
Federalists was held in Albany, and Hamilton then read this paper.
Lansing declined to run and Lewis was then nominated. The tendency
of the Federalists was towards Burr, but Hamilton by his attitude
divided them and Lewis was elected.

374 Alexander Hamilton

principle or from calculation. If the former, he is
not likely now to change his plan, when the Federal-
ists are prostrate, and their enemies predominant.
If the latter, he will certainly not at this time relin-
quish the ladder of his ambition, and espouse the
cause or views of the weaker party.

2. Though detested by some of the leading Clin-
tonians, he is certainly not personally disagreeable to
the great body of them, and it will be no difficult
task for a man of talents, intrigue, and address, pos-
sessing the chair of government, to rally the great
body of them under his standard, and thereby to
consolidate for personal purposes, the mass of the
Clintonians, his own adherents among the Demo-
crats, and such Federalists as, from personal good-
will or interested motives, may give him support.

3. The effect of his elevation will be to reunite
under a more adroit, able, and daring chief, the now
scattered fragments of the Democratic party, and
to reinforce it by a strong detachment from the
Federalists. For though virtuous Federalists, who,
from miscalculation, may support him, would after-
wards relinquish his standard, a large number from
various motives would continue attached to it.

4. A farther effect of his elevation by aid of the
Federalists will be, to present to the confidence of
New England, a man, already the man of the Demo-
cratic leaders of that country, and towards whom the
mass of the people have no weak predilection, as
their countryman, as the grandson of President
Edwards, and the son of President Burr. In vain
will certain men resist this predilection, when it can

Lansing or Burr 375

be said, that he was chosen governor of this State, in
which he was best known, principally, or in a great
degree, by the aid of the Federalists.

5. This will give him fair play to disorganize New
England, if so disposed; a thing not very difficult,
when the strength of the Democratic party in each
of the New England States is considered, and the
natural tendency of our civil institutions is duly
weighed.

6. The ill opinion of Jefferson, and jealousy of the
ambition of Virginia, is no inconsiderable prop of
good principles in that country. But these causes
are leading to an opinion, that a dismemberment of
the Union is expedient. It would probably suit Mr.
Burr's views to promote this result, to be the chief of
the Northern portion ; and placed at the head of the
State of New York, no man would be more likely to
succeed.

7. If he be truly, as the Federalists have believed,
a man of irregular and unsatiable ambition, if his
plan has been to rise to power on the ladder of Jaco-
binic principles, it is natural to conclude that he
will endeavor to fix himself in power by the same
instrument; that he will not lean on a fallen and
failing party, generally speaking, of a character not
to favor usurpation and the ascendancy of a despotic
chief. Every day shows, more and more, the much
to be regretted tendency of governments entirely
popular, to dissolution and disorder. Is it rational
to expect that a man, who had the sagacity to foresee
this tendency, and whose temper would permit him
to bottom his aggrandizement on popular prejudices

37^ Alexander Hamilton

and vices, would desert the system at a time when,
more than ever, the state of things invites him to ad-
here to it?

8. If Lansing is governor, his personal character
affords some security against pernicious extremes,
and at the same time renders it morally certain, that
the democratic party, already much divided and
weakened, will moulder and break asunder more and
more. This is certainly a state of things favorable
to the future ascendancy of the wise and good. May
it not lead to a recasting of parties, by which the
Federalists will gain a great accession of force from
former opponents? At any rate is it not wiser in
them to promote a course of things, by which schism
among the Democrats will be fostered and increased,
than on fair calculation to give them a chief, better
able than any they have yet had, to unite and direct
them; and in a situation to infer rottenness in the
only part of our country which still remains sound,
the Federal States of New England?

LAW BRIEFS

VALIDITY OF CERTAIN BRITISH ACTS

Question. Will the acts (particularly judgments
and executions) of courts, exercising jurisdiction un-
der the authority of Great Britain, subsequent to the
time when by the treaty of peace the Western posts
ought to have been delivered up, within the districts
comprehending those posts, be recognized as valid by
the courts of the United States?

Law Briefs 377

This question is both new and difficult. The argu-
ment for the negative is — that the treaty of peace
having admitted those territories to be within the
United States, the detention of them after the time
when they ought to have been surrendered, and all
exercise of inspection over them by Great Britain
after that time, to be wrongful and unlawful; espe-
cially as not sanctioned by the jus belli, there being
a state of peace, consequently the tribunals of Great
Britain are illegal and incompetent, interfering with
those of the United States, and their acts as nullities.

The argument for the affirmative is — that Great
Britain being antecedently in the possession of those
posts (jure belli) and not having actually restored
them to the jurisdiction of the United States after
the peace, her anterior jurisdiction must be supposed
to have continued, and that of the United States in
virtue of territorial right, suspended by the adverse
possession of a foreign sovereign power ; that, there-
fore, there was no interference of jurisdiction, espe-
cially as the United States had not within the districts
in question any competent organs to exercise juris-
diction. That the treaty of peace having only
stipulated that the posts should be delivered up as
soon as conveniently might be, there was no judicial
epoch from which to date the cessation of British
jurisdiction and the commencement of American.

That the wrongful detention was a question be-
tween the two governments foreign to the fact of
jurisdiction, as it respected individuals and the effects
of it. That with regard to those who were under
the coercion of the jurisdiction in facty and whose

2,7^ Alexander Hamilton

mutual dealings had reference to it, the legal effects
ought to be according to the fact. That convenience
and legal justice will both be promoted by this prin-
ciple and extremely infringed by its opposite.

It is impossible to foresee with certainty what will
be the determination of the courts of the United
States on the point ; but it is conceived that the ar-
gument for the affirmative, on great principles of
policy, convenience, and right, ought to prevail, and
it is presumed that it will.

„ j,^^.^3 CARRIAGE TAX'

^ ^ February 24, 1795.

What is the distinction between direct and indirect
taxes ? It is a matter of regret that terms so uncer-
tain and vague in so important a point are to be
found in the Constitution. We shall seek in vain

* Hamilton, when Secretary of the Treasury, recommended a tax on
pleasure carriages and Madison opposed it in the House on the ground
that it was a direct tax, and therefore unconstitutional. The bill laying
the tax became a law, and certain persons in Virginia refused to pay the
tax, taking Madison's position as to its unconstitutionality. The case
came before the Supreme Court, and Hamilton appeared for the gov-
ernment with the Attorney-General of the United States. One of the
newspapers said next day (Feb. 25th): "Yesterday, in the Supreme
Court of the United States, Mr. Hamilton, late Secretary of the
Treasury, made a most eloquent speech in support of the constitution-
ality of the carriage tax. He spoke for three hours, and the whole of
his argument was clear, impressive, and classical. The audience, which
was very numerous, and among whom were many foreigners of dis-
tinction and many of the Members of Congress, testified the effect pro-
duced by the talents of this great orator and statesman."

All that now remains of the argument is the fragment of a brief given
above. The case was Hylton vs. the United States, and is reported
I Dallas, 171. The court sustained Hamilton's view, and held unani-
mously that the tax was not direct and therefore constitutional.

Carriage Tax 379

for any antecedent settled legal meaning to the re-
spective terms — there is none.

We shall be as much at a loss to find any disposi-
tion of either which can satisfactorily determine the
point.

Shall we call an indirect tax, a tax which is ulti-
mately paid by a person, different from the one who
pays it in the first instance?

Truly speaking, there is no such tax — those on
imported articles best claim the character. But in
many instances the merchant cannot transfer the
tax to the buyer ; in numerous cases it falls on him-
self, partly or wholly. Besides, if the same article
which is imported by a merchant for sale, is imported
by a merchant for his own use, or by a lawyer, a phy-
sician, or mechanic, for his own use, there can be no
question about the transfer of the tax. It remains
upon him who pays it.

According to that rule, then, the same tax may be
both a direct and indirect tax, which is an absurdity.
To urge that a man may either buy an article already
imported, or import it himself, amounts to nothing;
sometimes he could not have that option.

But the option of an individual cannot alter the
nature of a thing. In like manner he might avoid
the tax on carriages by hiring occasionally instead of
buying.

The subject of taxation, not the contingent optional
conduct of individuals, must be the criterion of
direct or indirect taxation. Shall it be said that an
indirect tax is that of which a man is not conscious
when he pays? Neither is there any such tax. The

380 Alexander Hamilton

ignorant may not see the tax in the enhanced price
of the commodity — but the man of reflection knows
it is there. Besides, when any but a merchant pays,
as in the case of the lawyer, etc., who imports for
himself, he cannot but be conscious that it falls upon
himself.

By this rule, also, then a tax would be both direct
and indirect — and it will be equally impracticable to
find any other precise or satisfactory criterion.

In such a case no construction ought to prevail
calculated to defeat the express and necessary au-
thority of the government.

It would be contrary to reason, and to every rule
of sound construction, to adopt a principle for regu-
lating the exercise of a clear constitutional power
which would defeat the exercise of the power.

It cannot be contested that a duty on carriages
specifically is as much within the authority of the
government as a duty on lands or buildings.

Now, if a duty on carriages is to be considered as
a direct tax, to be apportioned according to the rates
of representation, very absurd consequences must
ensue.

'T is possible that a particular State may have no
carriages of the description intended to be taxed, or
a very small number.

But each State would have to pay a proportion of
the sum to be laid, according to its relative numbers ;
yet, while the State would have to pay a quota, it
might have no carriages upon which its quota could
be assessed, or so few, as to render it ruinous to the
owners to pay the tax. To consider then a duty on

Carriage Tax 381

carriages as a direct tax, may be to defeat the power
of laying such a duty. This is a consequence which
ought not to ensue from construction.

Further: If the tax on carriages be a direct tax,
that on ships according to their tonnage must be so
Hkewise. Here is not a consumable article. Here
the tax is paid by the owner of the thing taxed,
from time to time, as would be the tax on carriages.

If it be said that the tax is indirect because it is
alternately paid by the freighter of the vessel, the
answer is, that sometimes the owner is himself the
freighter, and at other times the tonnage accrues
when there is no freight, and is a dead charge on the
owner of the vessel.

Moreover, a tax on a hackney or stage-coach or
other carriage, or on a dray or cart employed in
transporting commodities for hire, would be as much
a charge on the freight as a tax upon vessels; so
that, if the latter be an indirect tax, the former can-
not be a direct tax.

And it would be too great a refinement for a rule
of practice in government to say, that a tax on a
hackney or stage-coach, and upon a dray or cart, is
an indirect one, and yet a tax upon a coach or wagon
ordinarily used for the purposes of its owner, is a
direct one.

The only known source of the distinction between
direct and indirect taxes is in the doctrine of the
French Economists — Locke and other speculative
writers — who affirm that all taxes fall ultimately
upon land, and are paid out of its produce, whether
laid immediately upon itself, or upon any other thing.

382 Alexander Hamilton

Hence, taxes upon lands are in that system called
direct taxes ; those on all other articles indirect taxes.

According to this, land taxes only would be direct
taxes, but it is apparent that something more was
intended by the Constitution. In one case, a capita-
tion is spoken of as a direct tax.

But how is the meaning of the Constitution to
be determined? It has been affirmed, and so it will
be found, that there is no general principle which
can indicate the boundary between the two. That
boundary, then, must be fixed by a species of arbitra-
tion, and ought to be such as will involve neither
absurdity nor inconvenience.

The following are presumed to be the only direct
taxes.

Capitation or poll taxes.

Taxes on lands and buildings.

General assessments, whether on the whole prop-
erty of individuals, or on their whole real or personal
estate; all else must of necessity be considered as
indirect taxes.

To apply a rule of apportionment according to
numbers to taxes of the above description, has some
rationale in it; but to extend an apportionment of
that kind to other cases, would, in many instances,
produce, as has been seen, preposterous conse-
quences, and would greatly embarrass the opera-
tions of the government. Nothing could be more
capricious or outre, than the application of quotas
in such cases.

The Constitution gives power to Congress to lay
and collect the taxes, duties, imposts, and excises,

The Law of Libel 2>^^

requiring that all duties, imposts, and excises shall
be uniform throughout the United States.

Here duties, imposts, and excises appear to be con-
tradistinguished from taxes, and while the latter is
left to apportionment, the former are enjoined to be
uniform.

But, unfortunately, there is equally here a want of
criterion to distinguish duties, imposts, and excises
from taxes.

If the meaning of the word excise is to be sought
in the British statutes, it will be found to include
the duty on carriages, which is there considered as
an excise, and then must necessarily be uniform and
not liable to apportionment; consequently not a
direct tax.

An argument results from this, though not per-
haps a conclusive one : yet where so important a dis-
tinction in the Constitution is to be realized, it is
fair to seek the meaning of terms in the statutory
language of that country from which our jurispru-
dence is derived.

THE LAW OF LIBEL ^

1804.

I. — The liberty of the press consists in the right to
publish with impunity truth, with good motives, for
justifiable ends, though reflecting on government,
magistracy, or individuals.

II. — That the allowance of this right is essential to

^ This is the brief in the Croswell case, and the argument as reported
follows.

384 Alexander Hamilton

the preservation of free government — the disallow-
ance of it, fatal.

III. — That its abuse is to be guarded against by
subjecting the exercise of it to the animadversion and
control of the tribunals of justice ; but that this con-
trol cannot safely be intrusted to a permanent body
of magistracy, and requires the effectual co-opera-
tion of court and jury.

IV. — That to confine the jury to the mere ques-
tion of publication and the application of terms,
without the right of inquiry into the intent or
tendency, referring to the court the exclusive right
of pronouncing upon the construction, tendency, and
intent of the alleged libel, is calculated to render
nugatory the function of the jury; enabling the
court to make a libel of any writing whatsoever, the
most innocent or commendable.

V. — That it is the general rule of criminal law, that
the intent constitutes the crime, and that it is equally
a general rule that the intent, mind, or quo animo, is
an inference of fact to be drawn by the jury.

VL — That if there are exceptions to this rule, they
are confined to cases in which not only the principal
fact, but its circumstances can be and are specifically
defined by statute or judicial precedent.

VII. — That in respect to libel there is no such
specific and precise definition of facts and circum-
stances to be found, that consequently it is difficult,
if not impossible, to pronounce that any writing is
per se and exclusive of all circumstances libellous;
that its libellous character must depend on intent and
tendency, the one and the other being matter of fact.

The Law of Libel 385

VI IL — That the definitions or descriptions of
Hbels to be found in the books predicate them upon
some mahcious or mischievous intent or tendency, to
expose individuals to hatred or contempt, or to occa-
sion a disturbance or breach of the peace.

IX. — That in determining the character of a Hbel,
the truth or falsehood is in the nature of things a
material ingredient, though the truth may not al-
ways be decisive, but being abused, may still admit 1
of a malicious and mischievous intent which may
constitute a libel.

X. — That in the Roman law, one source of the
doctrine of libel, the truth in cases interesting to the
public, may be given in evidence. That the ancient
statutes probably declaratory of the common law,
make the falsehood an ingredient of the crime. That
ancient precedents in the courts of justice corre-
spond, and that these precedents to this day charge
a malicious intent.

XI. — That the doctrine of excluding the truth as
immaterial originated in a tyrannical and polluted
source, the court of Star Chamber, and that though
it prevailed a considerable length of time, yet
there are leading precedents down to the Revolu-
tion, and even since, in which a contrary practice
prevailed.

XII. — That this doctrine being against reason and '
natural justice, and contrary to the original prin-
ciples of the common law enforced by statutory pro-
visions, precedents which support it deserve to be
considered in no better light than as mains usus
which ought to be abolished.

VOL. VIII. — 25.

386 Alexander Hamilton

XIII. — That in the general distribution of powers
in our system of jurisprudence, the cognizance of law-
belongs to the court, of fact to the jury; that as
often as they are not blended, the power of the court
is absolute and exclusive. That in civil cases it is
always so, and may rightfully be so exerted. That
in criminal cases the law and fact being always
blended, the jury, for reasons of a political and pe-
culiar nature, for the security of life and liberty, is
intrusted with the power of deciding both law and
fact.

XIV. — That this distinction results: i, from the
ancient forms of pleading in civil cases, none but
special pleas being allowed in matter of law; in
criminal, none but the general issue; 2, from the
liability of the jury to attaint in civil cases, and the
general power of the court as its substitute in grant-
ing new trials, and from the exemption of the jury
from attaint in criminal cases, and the defect of
power to control their verdicts by new trials, the test
of ever}^ legal power being its capacity to produce
a definitive effect liable neither to punishment nor
control.

XV. — That in criminal cases, nevertheless, the
court are the constitutional advisers of the jury in
matter of law ; who may compromit their conscience
by lightly or rashly disregarding that advice, but
may still more compromit their consciences by fol-
lowing it, if exercising their judgments with discre-
tion and honesty they have a clear conviction that
the charge of the court is wrong. x r

Speech 387

SPEECH IN THE CASE OF HARRY CROSWELL'

May it please the Court:

In rising to address your honors at so late a period
of the day, and after your attention has been so
much fatigued, and the cause has been so ably
handled, I may say, so exhausted, I feel a degree of
embarrassment which it is with difficulty I can sur-
mount. I fear lest it should not be possible for me
to interest the attention of the court on the subject
on which I have to speak. Nevertheless, I have a
duty to perform, of which I cannot acquit myself,
but by its execution. I have, however, this con-
solation, that though I may fail in the attempt, I

^ This speech in the celebrated case of the People against Harry
Croswell, on an indictment for libel on Thomas Jefferson, President of
the United States, was delivered before the Supreme Court of the State
of New York, in the year 1804, by Mr. Hamilton, for the defendant,
on a motion for a new trial.

The indictment in this case charged that Harry Croswell, late of the
city of Hudson, in the county of Columbia, New York, printer, being a
malicious and seditious man, of a depraved mind, and wicked and
diabolical disposition; and also deceitfully, wickedly, and maliciously
devising, contriving, and intending Thomas Jefferson, Esq., President
of the United States of America, to detract from, scandalize, traduce,
vilify, and to represent him, the said Thomas Jefferson, as unworthy
of the confidence, respect, and attachment of the people of the said
United States, and to alienate and withdraw from the said Thomas
Jefferson, Esq., President as aforesaid, the obedience, fidelity, and
allegiance of the citizens of the State of New York, and also of the said
United States; and wickedly and seditiously to disturb the peace and
tranquillity, as well of the people of the State of New York, as of the
United States; and also to bring the said Thomas Jefferson, Esq. (as
much as in him, the said Harry Croswell, lay), into great hatred, con-
tempt, and disgrace, not only with the people of the State of New York,
and the said people of the United States of America, but also with the
citizens and subjects of other nations, and for that purpose the said
Harry Croswell did, on the ninth of September, in the year of our Lord
1802, with force and arms, at the said city of Hudson, in the said

3^^ Alexander Hamilton

shall be justified by the importance of the question.
I feel that it is of the utmost magnitude; of the
highest importance viewed in every light. First, as
it regards the character of the head of our nation;
for, if indeed the truth can be given in evidence, and '
that truth can, as stated in the indictment, be estab-
lished, it will be a serious truth, the effect of which
it will be impossible to foresee. It is important also
as it regards the boundaries of power between the
constituent parts of our constitutional tribunals, to
which we are, for the law and the fact, to resort^—
our judges and our juries. It is important, as it
regards settling the right principles that may be
applied to the case, in giving to either the one or the
other the authority destined to it by the spirit and

county of Columbia, wickedly, maliciously, and seditiously print and
publish, and cause and procure to be printed and published, a certain |
scandalous, malicious, and seditious libel, in a certain paper or publica-
tion entitled The Wasp; containing therein, among other things, cer-
tain scandalous, malicious, inflammatory, and seditious matters of
and concerning the said Thomas Jefferson, Esq., then and yet being i
President of the United States of America; that is to say, in one part ■
thereof according to the tenor and effect following, that is to say
Jefferson (the said Thomas Jefferson, Esq., meaning) paid Callendar
(meaning one James Thompson Callendar) for calling Washington
(meaning George Washington, Esq., deceased, late President of the
United States) a traitor, a robber, and a perjurer; for calling Adams
(meaning John Adams, Esq., late President of the United States) a
hoary-headed incendiary, and for most grossly slandering the private
characters of men whom he (meaning the said Thomas Jefferson) well
knew to be virtuous, to the great scandal and infamy of the said
Thomas Jefferson, Esq., in contempt of the people of the State of New
York, in open violation of the laws of the said State, to the evil exam-
ple of all others in like case offending, and against the peace of the
people of the State of New York, and their dignity.

All that need be said in addition is that Hamilton won the case, which
attracted great attention, both from its political bearings and the
important principles of law which it involved.

speech 389

letter of our law. It is important on account of the
influence it must have on the rights of our citizens.
Viewing it, therefore, in these lights, I hope I shall,
in the arduous attempt, be supported by its import-
ance, and if any doubt hangs on the mind of the
court, I shall, I trust, be able to satisfy them that
a new trial ought to be had.

The question branches itself into two divisions.
The first as to the truth — whether, under a general
issue of not guilty, it ought to be given in evidence.
The other, as to the power of the court — whether it
has a right, exclusively, over the intent, or whether
that and the law do not constitute one complicated
fact, for the cognizance of the jury, under the direc-
tion of the judge. The last, I trust, can be made to
appear, on the principle of our jurisprudence, as
plainly as it is possible to evince anything to a
court; and that, in fact, there are no precedents
which embrace the doctrines of the other side, or
rather that they are so diverse and contrarient that
nothing can arise from them to make an application
to this case.

After these preliminary observations, and before I
advance to the full discussion of this question, it may
be necessary for the safety and accuracy of investiga- .
tion, a little to define what this liberty of the press is,
for which we contend, and which the present doc-
trines of those opposed to us, are, in our opinions,
calculated to destroy.

The liberty of the press consists, in my idea, in •
publishing the truth, from good motives and for jus-
tifiable ends, though it reflect on the government, on

390 Alexander Hamilton

I magistrates, or individuals. If it be not allowed, it
excludes the privilege of canvassing men, and our
rulers. It is in vain to say, you may canvass meas-
ures. This is impossible without the right of looking
to men. To say that measures can be discussed, and

f that there shall be no bearing on those who are the
authors of those measures, cannot be done. The very
end and reason of discussion would be destroyed.
Of what consequence to show its object? Why is it
to be thus demonstrated, if not to show, too, who is
the author ? It is essential to say, not only that the
measure is bad and deleterious, but to hold up to
the people who is the author, that, in this our free
and elective government, he may be removed from
the seat of power. If this be not to be done, then in
vain will the voice of the people be raised against the
inroads of tyranny. For, let a party but get into
power, they may go on from step to step, and, in
spite of canvassing their measures, fix themselves
firmly in their seats, especially as they are never to
be reproached for what they have done. This ab-
stract mode, in practice, can never be carried into
effect. But if, under the qualifications I have men-
tioned, the power be allowed, the liberty for which I
contend will operate as a salutary check. In speak-
ing thus for the freedom of the press, I do not say

^ there ought to be an unbridled license; or that the
characters of men who are good will naturally tend
eternally to support themselves. I do not stand
here to say that no shackles are to be laid on this
license.

I consider this spirit of abuse and calumny as the

Speech 391

pest of society. I know the best of men are not
exempt from the attacks of slander. Though it
pleased God to bless us with the first of characters,
and though it has pleased God to take him from us
and this band of calumniators, I say that falsehood
eternally repeated w^ould have affected even his
name. Drops of water, in long and continued suc-
cession, will wear out adamant. This, therefore,
cannot be endured. It would be to put the best and
the worst on the same level.

I contend for the liberty of publishing truth, with
good motives and for justifiable ends, even though
it reflect on government, magistrates, or private per-
sons. I contend for it under the restraint of our
tribunals. When this is exceeded, let them inter-
pose and punish. From this will follow none of
those consequences so ably depicted. When, how-
ever, we do look at consequences, let me ask whether
it is right that a permanent body of men, appointed
by the executive, and, in some degree, always con-
nected with it, should exclusively have the power of
deciding on what shall constitute a libel on our
rulers, or that they shall share it, united with a
changeable body of men chosen by the people. Let
our juries still be selected, as they now are, by lot.
But it cannot be denied, that every body of men is,
more or less, liable to be influenced by the spirit of
the existing administration; that such a body may
be liable to corruption, and that they may be in-
clined to lean over towards party modes. No man
can think more highly of our judges, and I may say
personally so of those who now preside, than myself;

392 Alexander Hamilton

but I must forget what human nature is, and how
her history has taught us that permanent bodies
may be so corrupted, before I can venture to assert
that it cannot be. As then it may be, I do not
think it safe thus to compromise our independence.
For though, as individuals, the judges may be in-
terested in the general welfare, yet, if once they
enter into these views of government, their power
may be converted into the engine of oppression. It
is in vain to say that allowing them this exclusive
right to declare the law, on what the jury has found,
can work no ill; for, by this privilege, they can
assume and modify the fact, so as to make the most
innocent publication libellous. It is therefore not a
security to say, that this exclusive power will but
follow the law. It must be with the jury to decide
on the intent; they must in certain cases be per-
mitted to judge of the law, and pronounce on the
combined matter of law and of fact. Passages have
been adduced from Lord Mansfield's declarations to
show that judges cannot be under the influence of
an administration. Yet still it would be contrary to
our own experience, to say that they could not. I
do not think that even as to our own country it may
not be. There are always motives and reasons that
may be held up. It is therefore still more necessary,
here, to mingle this power, than in England. The
person who appoints there, is hereditary. That per-
son cannot alone attack the judiciary; he must be
united with the two Houses of Lords and of Com-
mons, in assailing the judges. But, with us, it is
the vibration of party. As one side or the other

Speech 393

prevails, so of that class and temperament will be
the judges of their nomination. Ask any man, how-
ever ignorant of principles of government, who con-
stitute the judiciary, he will tell you the favorites of
those at the head of affairs. According then to the
theory of this our free government, the independ-
ence of our judges is not so well secured as in Eng-
land. We have here reasons for apprehension not
applicable to them. We are not, however, to be
now influenced by the preference to one side or the
other. But of which side soever a man may be, it ?
interests all, to have the question settled, and to \
uphold the power of the jury, consistently however
with liberty, and also with legal and judicial prin-
ciples, fairly and rightly understood. None of these
impair that for which we contend — the right of pub-
lishing the truth, from good motives and justifiable
ends, though it reflect on government, on magis-
trates, or individuals.

Some observations have, however, been made in
opposition to these principles. It is said, that as no
man rises at once high into office, every opportunity
of canvassing his qualities and qualifications is af-
forded, without recourse to the press; that his first
election ought to stamp the seal of merit on his name.
This, however, is to forget how often the hypocrite
goes from stage to stage of public fame, under false
array, and how often, when men obtain the last ob-
ject of their wishes, they change from that which
they seemed to be; that men, the most zealous
reverers of the people's rights, have, when placed on
the highest seat of power, become their most deadly

394 Alexander Hamilton

oppressors. It becomes, therefore, necessary to ob-
serve the actual conduct of those who are thus
raised up.

I have already shown that, though libelling shall
continue to be a crime, it ought to be so only when
under a restraint, in which the court and the jury
shall co-operate. What is a libel that it should be
otherwise ? Why take it out of the rule that allows,
in all criminal cases, when the issue is general, the
jury to determine upon the whole? What is then
a libel to produce this? That great and venerable
man. Lord Camden, already cited with so much well-
deserved eulogy, says that he has never yet been
able to form a satisfactory definition. All essays
made towards it are neither accurate nor satisfac-
tory; yet, such as they are, I shall cite them and
animadvert.

Blackstone and Hawkins declare that it is any
malicious defamation, with an intent to blacken the
reputation of any one, dead or alive.

The criminal quality is its maliciousness. The
next ingredient is, that it shall have an intent to
defame. I ask, then, if the intent be not the very
essence of the crime. It is admitted that the word
falsity, when the proceedings are on the statute,
must be proved to the jury, because it makes the
offence. Why not then the malice, when, to consti-
tute the crime, it must necessarily be implied? In
reason there can be no difference.

A libel is, then, a complicated matter of fact and
law, with certain things and circimistances to give
them a character. If so, then the malice is to be

Speech 395

proved. The tendency to provoke is its constitu-
ent. Must it not be shown how and in what manner ?
If this is not to be the case, must every one who does
not panegyrize be said to be a Hbeller? Unless the
court are disposed to go to that extreme length, it is
necessary that the malice and intent must be proved.
To this it is certain the definition of Lord Coke may,
in some degree, be opposed. He does seem to super-
add ''the breach of the peace." Lord Coke, how-
ever, does not give this as a specific definition; and
even then the defamatory writing, which he par-
ticularizes, includes the question both of intent and
malice. The breach of the peace, therefore, is not
made the sole, but only one of the qualities. The
question is not on the breaking of the peace, but de-
pends on time, manner, and circumstances, which
must ever be questions of fact for jury determina-
tion. I do not advocate breaking the peace; ob-
servations may be made on public men, which are
calculated merely to excite the attention of the com-
munity to them; to make the people exercise their
own functions, which may have no tendency to a
breach of the peace, but only to inspection. For
surely a man may go far in the way of reflecting
on public characters, without the least design of ex-
citing tumult. He may only have it in view to rouse
the nation to vigilance and a due exertion of their
right to change their rulers. This, then, being a mere
matter of opinion, can it be not a matter for them to
judge of to whom it is addressed? The court, to
be sure, may, like a jury, and in common with them,
have the legal power and moral discernment to

396 Alexander Hamilton

determine on this ; yet it does not arise out of the
writing, but by adverting to the state of things and
circumstances. It, therefore, answers no purpose to
say it has a tendency to a breach of the peace.

Lord Loughborough, in the Pari. Chron., 644, 657,
instances that passages from holy writ may be turned
into libels.

Lord Thurlow admits that this may happen, and
that time and circumstances may enter into the ques-
tion. He, it is true, sanctioned the doctrines of our
opponents, but allowed time and circumstances to be
ingredients; and, strange to say, though these are
extrinsic to the record, was of opinion for the old
law. Lord Thurlow says, however, that it might be
something more than a bare libel — intimating here
that it may be even treason; and is it not, then, to
confess that intent is a matter of fact? If so, who
or where shall be the forum but the jury ?

My definition of a libel is, and I give it with all
difiidence after the words of Lord Camden — my de-
finition, then, is this: I would call it a slanderous or
ridiculous writing, picture, or sign, with a malicious
or mischievous design or intent, towards govern-
ment, magistrates, or individuals. If this definition
does not embrace all that may be so called, does it
not cover enough for every beneficial purpose of jus-
tice? If it have a good intent, it ought not to be a
libel, for it then is an innocent transaction; and it
ought to have this intent, against which the jury
have, in their discretion, to pronounce. It shows it-
self to us as a sentence of fact. Crime is a matter of
fact by the code of our jurisprudence. In my opin-

Speech 397

ion, every specific case is a matter of fact, for the law
gives the definition. It is some act in violation of
law. When we come to investigate, every crime in-
cludes an intent. Murder consists in killing a man
with malice prepense. Manslaughter, in doing it
without malice, and at the moment of an impulse
of passion. Killing may even be justifiable, if not
praiseworthy, as in defence of chastity about to be
violated. In these cases the crime is defined, and
the intent is always the necessary ingredient. The
crime is matter of law, as far as definition is con-
cerned; fact, as far as we are to determine its
existence.

But it is said the judges have the right, on this
fact, to infer the criminal intent, that being matter
of law. This is true ; but what do we mean by these
words, unless the act dependent on and united with
its accessories, such as the law has defined, and
which when proved constitute the crime? But
whether the jury are to find it so with all its quali-
ties, is said to be a question; no act, separate from
circumstances, can be criminal, for without these
qualities it is not a crime. Thus, as I have before
instanced, murder is characterized by being with
malice prepense; manslaughter, by being involun-
tary; justifiable homicide, by having some excuse.
Killing, therefore, is not a crime; but it becomes so
in consequence of the circumstances annexed. In
cases that are, in the general opinion of mankind,
exceptions to the explanations I have given, the law
contemplates the intent. In duelling, the malice is (
supposed, from the deliberate acts of reflecting, send-

39^ Alexander Hamilton

ing a challenge, and appointing the time and place of
meeting. Here, it is true, the law implies the intent;
but then, let it be remembered that it is in conse-
quence of its having previously defined the act, and
forbidden its commission. This too is on the prin-
ciple of natural justice, that no man shall be the
avenger of his own wrongs, especially by a deed alike
interdicted by the laws of God and of man. That,
therefore, the intent shall in this case constitute the
crime, is because the law has declared it shall be so.
It is impossible to separate a crime from the intent.
I call on those opposed to us to say what is a libel.
To be sure they have told us that it is any scandalous
publication, etc., which has a tendency to a breach
of the peace. This, indeed, is a broad definition,
which must, for the purpose of safety, be reduced to
a positive fact, with a criminal intent. In this there
is no violation of law: it is a settled maxim, that
mens jacit reum; non reuSy nisi sit mens rea.

When a man breaks into a house it is the intent
that makes him a felon. It must be proved to the
jury that it was his intention to steal; they are the
judges of whether the intent was such, or whether it
was innocent. Then so, I say, should it be here; let
the jury determine, as they have the right to do, in
all other cases, on the complicated circumstances of
fact and intent. It may, as a general and universal
rule, be asserted that the intention is never excluded
in the consideration of the crime. The only case re-
sorted to, and which is relied on by the opposite side
(for all the others are built upon it), to show a con-
trary doctrine, was a star-chamber decision. To

Speech 399

prove how plainly the intent goes to the constituting
the crime of libel, the authority cited by the counsel
associated with me, is fully in point. In that, the
letter written to the father, though (as far as words
were concerned) perfectly a libel, yet having been
written for the purpose of reformation, and not with
an intent to injure, was held not to amount to a libel.
Suppose persons were suspected of forging public
papers, and this communicated by letter to the Sec-
retary of State, with a good design, still if the doc-
trines contended for were to prevail, it would be
libellous and punishable, though the party not only
did it with the best of motives, but actually saved the
State. In madness and idiocy, crimes may be per-
petrated, nay, the same malicious intent may exist,
but the crime does not. These things tend to show
that the criminality of an act is a matter of fact and
law combined, and on which it cannot belong to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the court to decide the in-
tent ; for the question is forever a question of fact.

The criminal intent, says Lord Mansfield, in the
Dean of St. Asaph's case, is what makes the crime.

Here, that truly great man — for great he was, and
no one more fully estimates him than I do, yet he
might have some biases on his mind not extremely
favorable to liberty, — here, then, he seems to favor
the doctrine contended for; but he will be found to
be at times contradictory, nay, even opposed to him-
self. '*A criminal intent in doing a thing in itself
criminal, without a lawful excuse, is an inference of
law." How can that be in itself criminal which ad-
mits of a lawful excuse ? Homicide is not in itself a

400 Alexander Hamilton

crime, therefore it is not correct to say a criminal in-
tent can be inferred, because a lawful excuse may be
set up. A thing cannot be criminal which has a law-
ful excuse, but as it may have a certain quality which
constitutes the crime. To be sure you may go on to
say that where the intent bestows the character of
criminality on an act indifferent, then it is a matter
of fact, and not where the act is bad in itself. But
this is begging the question. We contend that no
act is criminal, abstracted and divested of its intent.
Trespass is not in itself innocent. No man has a
right to enter another's land or house. Yet it be-
comes in this latter case felony only in one point of
view, and whether it shall be holden in that point is
a subject of jury determination. Suppose a man
should enter the apartments of a king; this, in itself,
is harmless, but if he do it with intent to assassinate,
it is treason. To whom must this be made to appear
in order to induce conviction? To the jury. Let it
rather be said that crime depends on intent, and in-
tent is one parcel of the fact. Unless, therefore, it
can be shown that there is some specific character of
libel that will apply in all cases, intent, tendency, and
quality must all be matters of fact for a jury. There
is therefore, nothing which can be libel, independent
of circumstances; nothing which can be so called in
opposition to time and circumstances. Lord Lough-
borough, indeed, in the parliamentary debates on
this very subject, to which I have referred the court,
admits this to be the case. Lord Mansfield, em-
barrassed with the truth and strength of the doc-
trine, endeavors to contrast meaning with intent.

Speech 401

He says that the truth may be given in evidence to
show the meaning, but not the intent. If this can
be done to show the apphcation where the person is
imperfectly described, why not to prove the intent,
without which the crime cannot be committed?
Whatever is done collaterally must show this, and in
all cases collateral facts are for the jury. The intent
here has been likened to the construction of a deed,
or any unwritten instrument, in all of which the in-
tent is for the court. But the comparison will not
hold; for even there the intent may be inquired
aliunde. When you go to quality and explain, what
is this but to decide on the intent by matters of fact ?
Lord Mansfield is driven into this contradiction when,
on one occasion, he says it is a matter on which the
jury may exercise their judgment, and in another
that it is not. I am free to confess, that in all diffi-
cult cases, it is the duty of a jury to hearken to the
directions of a judge with very great deference. But
if the meaning must be either on the face of the libel
or from any thing aliunde, then it must be a matter
of fact for the jury. That the quo animo affects the
constitution of libel, cannot be disputed, and must
be inquired of by somebody. Now, imless this is
tried by the jury, by whom is it to be determined?
Will any man say, that in the case of the star cham- .
ber, respecting the letter written to the child's father,
the intent was not the reason why it was held inno-
cent, and the quo animo not gone into? Did they
not then endeavor to prove the guilt by the intent?
Now, if you are to show things malicious aliunde, you
may defend by the same means. The mens is the

VOL. VIII.— 26.

402 Alexander Hamilton

question, and in common parlance it is that to which
we resort to show guilt. II. Mod., the Queen vs.
Brown, will explain how it is to be found. Nay, in
this very case, when the counsel for the defendant
objected to the attorney-general reading passages
from the prospectus of the Wasp, and from other
numbers, he expressly avowed that he thus acted in
order that the jury might see it to be '* manifest that
the intent of the defendant was malicious." This,
I here observe, is a mistake that law officers would
not be very apt to slide into. Yet, on this very in-
tent, this malicious intent thus proved to the jury,
and on which they founded their verdict, is the court
now asked to proceed to judgment. To demonstrate
how fully this matter of intent is by our law a subject
of jury determination, suppose the grand jury had,
in the present case, returned to the bill ignoramus;
on what would they have founded their return? Is
not this, then, a precedent that the quo ammo is for
a jury? If it be necessary only to find the publica-
tion, why is not the grand jury competent for the
whole ? For if the supposition is that the grand jury
may decide on the finding of the bill, surely the petit
jury may acquit. If so, then is the case I have men-
tioned an important precedent. In Rex vs. Home,
an authority that has been justly urged, the prin-
ciple is allowed. It appears there that the jury are
to exercise their judgment from the nature of the act,
what is its intent. Into a confession of this is Lord
Mansfield himself driven. Regina vs. Fuller, we are
told from the other side, was a case on the statute for
scandalum magnatum. Of this, however, I can find

Speech 403

no trace in the books, and there Lord Holt, repeatedly
interrogated as to the truth, would have allowed it
to be given in evidence, and directed the jury that if
they did not believe the allegations false, they were
not to find the defendant guilty. This, then, is a
decision, as we contend, that not only the intent, but
the truth is important to constitute the crime, and
nothing has been shown against it. Nay, Lord Holt
goes on still further; he bids the jury consider
whether the papers have not a tendency to beget
sedition, riot, and disturbance. Surely this author-
ity of that great man demonstrates that intent and
tendency are matters of fact for a jury. This argu-
ment will be further strengthened when I enimierate
those cases where truth has been permitted to be
shown. But before I do that, I must examine how
far truth is to be given in evidence. This depends
on the intent being a crime. Its being a truth is a
reason to infer that there was no design to injure an-
other. Thus, not to decide on it would be injustice,
as it may be material in ascertaining the intent. It
is impossible to say that to judge of the quality and
nature of an act, the truth is immaterial. It is in-
herent in the nature of things, that the assertion of
truth cannot be a crime. In all systems of law this
is a general axiom, but this single instance, it is at-
tempted to assert, creates an exception, and is there-
fore an anomaly. If, however, we go on to examine
what may be the case that shall be so considered, we
cannot find it to be this. If we advert to the Roman
Law, we shall find that Paulus and Pereizius take
a distinction between those truths which relate to

404 Alexander Hamilton

private persons and those in which the public are
interested. Vinnius lays it down in the doctrine
cited by the associate counsel who last spoke. If,
then, we are to consider this a doctrine to be adopted
in all that relates to public men, it ought now to be
received. When we advert to the statutes they con-
firm our positions. Those statutes are indisputably
declaratory of the early law. We know that a great
part of the common law has been, for certainty, re-
duced to statutes. Can we suppose that the com-
mon law did not notice that no punishment was to
be inflicted for speaking the truth, when we see a
statute thus enacting?

Therefore, the fair reasoning is, that they are de-
claratory of the common law. That, by our code,
falsehood must be the evidence of the libel. If we

I apply to precedents, they are decidedly for us. In
the case cited from 7 D. and E. this is admitted, for
there it is allowed that the word false is contained in

; all the ancient forms. This, then, is a strong argu-
ment for saying that the falsity was, by the common
law, considered a necessary ingredient. It is no
answer to say that in declarations for assaults we
use the words ''sticks," "staves," etc. When in-
struments are named, this imports only one or the
other which might be used ; but when a word by way
of epithet, that it means a precise idea, and we are
to take it as if introduced for the purpose of explain-
ing the crime. As to the practice on this occasion,
we must take various epochs of the English his-
tory into consideration. At one time, that the law
was as we have shown, is proved by the statutes.

Speech 405

At that time the truth was clearly drawn into ques-
tion, and that since the period of Lord Raymond
a different practice has prevailed, is no argument
against the common law. The authority from the
third institute is conclusive, at least satisfactory, to
show that it was then necessary to show the words
were true. Et quid, etc., qucB liter a in se continet
nullum veritatem ideo, etc. It is to be supposed that
the truth in this case was not inquired into, when the
want of it is the reason of the judgment. Unless
this had been gone into, the court would not nor
could not have spoken to it. The insertion of that,
then, is a strong argument that this was the old law,
and it shows us what that law was. In the case of
the seven bishops, they were allowed to go into
all the evidence they wanted. The court permitted
them to read every thing to show it.

On that occasion Halloway and all agreed as to the
admissibility of the truth. But this case is import-
ant in another view, as it shows the intent ought to
be inquired into, for the bishops might have done it
either with a seditious or an innocent motive. They
declare that by the law they could not do the act
required. They exculpated themselves by an ap-
peal to their consciences. This shows the necessity
of inquiring into the intent of the act.

In Rex vs. Fuller, this very atrocious offender was
indicted for a most infamous libel, and yet Lord
Holt at every breath asked him. Can you prove the
truth? At the time, then, when this was done, there
were some things in favor of the truth. It stands,
then, a precedent for what we contend. I shall now

4o6 Alexander Hamilton

notice some intermediate authorities between that
day and those in which a contrary principle has been
endeavored to be supported. It is true that the
doctrine originated in one of the most oppressive
institutions that ever existed ; in a court whose op-
pressions roused the people to demand its abolition,
whose horrid judgments cannot be read without
freezing the blood in one's veins. This is not used
as declamation, but as argument. If doctrine tends
to trample on the liberty of the press, and if we see
it coming from a foul source, it is enough to warn us
against polluting the stream of our own jurispru-
dence. It is not true that it was abolished merely
for not using the intervention of juries, or because
it proceeded ex parte, though that, God knows,
would have been reason enough, or because its func-
tions were discharged by the court of king's bench.
It was because its decisions were cruel and tyran-
nical ; because it bore down the liberties of the people,
and inflictedthe most sanguinary punishments. It is
impossible to read its sentences without feeling indig-
nation against it. This will prove why there should not
be a paramount tribunal to judge of these matters.
Want's case is the first we find on this subject ; but
even then we do not meet the broad definition of
Lord Coke, in the case of de famosts lihellis. I do
not deny this doctrine of the immateriality of the
truth as a universal negative to a publication's being
libellous, though true. But still I do say, that in no
case may you not show the intent ; for, whether the
truth be a justification will depend on the motives
with which it was published.

speech 407

Personal defects can be made public only to make
a man disliked. Here, then, it will not be excused;
it might, however, be given in evidence to show the
libellous degree. Still, however, it is a subject of in-
quiry. There may be a fair and honest exposure.
But if he uses the weapon of truth wantonly ; if for
the purpose of disturbing the peace of families; if
for relating that which does not appertain to official
conduct, so far we say the doctrine of our opponents
is correct. If their expressions are, that libellers
may be punished though the matter contained in the
libel be true, in these I agree. I confess that the
truth is not material as a broad proposition respect-
ing libels. But that the truth cannot be material
in any respect, is contrary to the nature of things.
No tribunal, no codes, no systems can repeal or im-
pair this law of God, for by his eternal laws it is in-
herent in the nature of things. We first find this
large and broad position to the contrary in 5 Rep.
And here it is to be noticed that when Lord Coke
himself was in office, when he was attorney-general,
and allowed to give his own opinion, he determines
the truth to be material. But when he gets into
that court, and on that bench, which had pronounced
against it, when he occupies a star-chamber seat,
then he declares it is immaterial. I do not mention
this as derogating from Lord Coke, for, to be sure, he
may be said to have yielded; but this, I say, is the
first case on this point in which he seems to be of a
contrary opinion. We do not, in every respect, con-
tend even against his last ideas, we only assert that
the truth may be given in evidence. But this we

4o8 Alexander Hamilton

allow is against the subsequent authorities, which,
in this respect, overturn the former precedents.
These latter, however, are contrary to the common
law; to the principles of justice and of truth. The
doctrine, that juries shall not judge on the whole
matter of law and fact, or the intent and tendency
of the publication, is not to be found in the cases
before the time of Lord Raymond; and it is con-
trary to the spirit of our law, because it may prevent
them from determining on what may, perhaps, be
within their own knowledge. It was only by Lord
Raymond that this was first set up and acted upon,
and this has been followed by Lord Mansfield and
his successors. Here, then, have been a series of
precedents against us. Blackstone, too, says that
the truth may not be given in evidence so as to just-
ify; and so, with the qualifications I have before
mentioned, do we. Prior, indeed, to his time. Lord
Holt had laid down the law, in one or two cases, in
conformity to that of the other side, and later times
have given this a currency by a coincidence of pre-
cedents in its favor. A reflection may, perhaps, be
here indulged, that, from what I have before re-
marked on Lord Coke, it is frequent for men to forget
sound principles, and condemn the points for which
they have contended. Of this, the very case of the
seven bishops is an example, when those, who there
maintained the principles for which we contend,
supplanted the persons then in power, they were
ready to go the whole length of the doctrine that the
truth could not be given in evidence on a libel. This
is an admonition that ought at all times to be at-

speech 409

tended to; that at all times men are disposed to \
forward principles to support themselves. The au-
thority of Paley had been adduced, if indeed he may
be called an authority. That moral philosopher
considers every thing as slanderous libels whether
true or false, if published with motives of malice.

In these cases he does not consider the truth a
justification. Nor do we; we do not say that it is,
alone, always a justification of the act; and this we
say, consistent with sound morality, is good law and
good sense. On what ought a court to decide on
such an occasion as this? Shall they be shackled
by precedents, weakened in that very country where
they were formed? Or rather, shall they not say,
that we will trace the law up to its source ? We con-
sider, they might say, these precedents as only some
extraneous bodies engrafted on the old trunk; and
as such I believe they ought to be considered. I am f
inclined to think courts may go thus far, for it is
absolutely essential to right and security that the
truth should be admitted. To be sure, this may
lead to the purposes suggested. But my reply is,
that government is to be thus treated, if it furnish
reasons for calumny. I affirm that, in the general
course of things, the disclosure of truth is right and
prudent, when liable to the checks I have been willing
it should receive as an object of animadversion. |

It cannot be dangerous to government, though it
may work partial difficulties. If it be not allowed,
they will stand liable to encroachments on their
rights. It is evident that if you cannot apply this
mitigated doctrine, for which I speak, to the cases

/

4IO Alexander Hamilton

of libels here, you must forever remain ignorant of
what your rulers do. I never can think this ought
to be ; I never did think the truth was a crime ; I am
glad the day is come in which it is to be decided, for
my soul has ever abhorred the thought that a free
man dared not speak the truth; I have forever re-
joiced when this question has been brought forward.
I I come now to examine the second branch of this
' inquiry — the different provinces of the court and the
jury. I will introduce this subject by observing that
the trial by jury has been considered, in the system
of English jurisprudence, as the palladium of public
and private liberty. In all the political disputes of
that coimtry, this has been deemed the barrier to
secure the subjects from oppression. If, in that
country, juries are to answer this end, if they are to
protect from the weight of state prosecutions, they
must have this power of judging of the intent, in
order to perform their functions; they could not
otherwise answer the ends of their institution. For,
under this dangerous refinement of leaving them to
decide only the fact of composing and publishing,
any thing on which they may decide, may be made
a libel. I do not deny the well-known maxim — that
to matters of fact the jury, and to matters of law
the judges, shall answer. I do not deny this, be-
cause it is not necessary, for the purpose of this or
any other case, that it should be denied. I say,
with this complicated explanation, I have before
given of the manner in which the intent is neces-
sarily interwoven in the fact, the court has the gen-
eral cognizance of the law. In all cases of ancient

speech 411

proceedings the question of law must have been
presented.

It was in civil cases alone that an attaint would
lie. They have, it is said, the power to decide in
criminal cases, on the law and the fact. They have
then the right, because they cannot be restricted in
its exercise; and, in politics, power and right are
equivalent. To prove it, what shall we say to this
case? Suppose the Legislature to have laid a tax,
which, by the Constitution, they certainly are en-
titled to impose, yet still the Legislature may be
guilty of oppression; but who can prevent them, or
say they have not authority to raise taxes? Legal
power, then, is the decisive effect of certain acts
without control. It is agreed that the jury may
decide against the direction of the court, and that
their verdict of acquittal cannot be impeached, but
must have its effect. This, then, I take to be the
criterion, that the Constitution has lodged the power
with them, and they have the right to exercise it.
For this I could cite authorities. It is nothing to
say, in opposition to this, that they, if they act
wrong, are to answer between God and their con-
sciences. This may be said of the Legislature, and
yet, nevertheless, they have the power and the right
of taxation. I do not mean to admit that it would
be proper for jurors thus to conduct themselves, but
only to show that the jury do possess the legal right
of determining on the law and the fact. What, then,
do I conceive to be true doctrine ? That in the gen-
eral distribution of power in our Constitution, it is
the province of the jury to speak to fact, yet, in

412 Alexander Hamilton

criminal cases, the consequences and tendency of
acts, the law and the fact are always blended. As
far as the safety of the citizen is concerned, it is
necessary that the jury shall be permitted to speak
to both. How, then, does the question stand? Cer-
tainly not without hazard; because, inasmuch as
in the general distribution of power, the jury are to
? be confined to fact, they ought not wantonly to de-
depart from the advice of the court; they ought to
receive it, if there be not strong and valid reasons to
the contrary; if there be, they should reject. To go
beyond this is to go too far. Because, it is to say,
when they are obliged to decide, by their oath, ac-
cording to the evidence, they are bound to follow the
words of the judge. After they are satisfied from
him what the law is, they have a right to apply the
definition. It is convenient that it should be so.
If they are convinced that the law is as stated, let
them pronounce him guilty; but never let them
leave that guilt for the judge; because, if they do,
the victim may be offered up, and the defendant
gone. Will any one say, that under forms of law
we may commit homicide? Will any directions
from any judge excuse them? I am free to say, I
would die on the rack, were I to sit as a juror, rather
than confirm such a doctrine, by condemning the
man I thought deserved to be acquitted; and yet I
would respect the opinion of the judge, from which,
however, I should deem myself at liberty to depart,
and this I believe to be the theory of our law.

These are the propositions I shall endeavor to
maintain. I have little more to do than examine

Speech 413

how far precedents accord with principles, and
whether any estabhsh a contrary doctrine. I do not
know that it is necessary to do more than has already
been done by my associate counsel, and yet, perhaps,
I should not complete my duty without adverting to
what has fallen, on this point, from our opponents.
There is not one of the ancient precedents in which
our doctrine has not in general prevailed, and it is,
indeed, to be traced down to one of a modem date.
The case of the seven bishops is that to which I
allude. There it was permitted to go into the truth,
and all the court submitted the question to the jury.
This case deserves particular attention. If, on the
one hand, it was decided at a time when the nation
was considerably agitated, it was, on the other hand,
at a time when great constitutional precedents and
points were discussed and resolved. The great one
was, the power of the jury; and this power was sub-
mitted to, to extricate the people, for the salvation
of the nation, from the tyranny with which they
were then oppressed. This was one of the reasons
which brought about their glorious revolution, and
which, perhaps, tended to the maturing those prin-
ciples which have given us ours. This ought to be
considered as a landmark to our liberties, as a pillar
which points out to us on what the principles of our
liberty ought to rest; particularly so if we examine
it as to its nature, and the nature of the attempts
then made to set up and support the endeavors to
construe an act of duty a libel — a deed in which con-
science did not permit those reverend characters to
act in any other way than what they did, a respect

V.

414 Alexander Hamilton

to which they held a bounden duty. It is a pre-
cedent then on which we should in every way fasten
ourselves. The case of Fuller is of minor import-
ance. Yet that is one in which Lord Holt called on
the defendant to enter into the truth. In the King
vs. Tutchin, Lord Holt expressly tells the jury, You
are to consider whether the tendency of this writing ;
be not to criminate the administration ; you, the .
jury are to decide on this. Owen's case is to the
same effect. There Lord Camden was of counsel,
and in the discussion, in the House of Lords, he tells
us, and surely his testimony is good, that being of
counsel for the defendant, he was permitted to urge
to the jury a cognizance of the whole matter of libel ;
that in the case of Shepherd, where, by his official
situation, he was called on to prosecute for the
Crown, where the interests of government called on
him to maintain an opposite doctrine, yet then he
insisted for a verdict on the whole matter, from the
consideration of the jury. In the King vs. Home,
Lord Mansfield himself tells the jury they have a
right to exercise their judgment from the nature of
the intent. This surely, then, is a precedent down
to a late period. It is not, however, to be denied,
that there is a series of precedents on the other side.
But as far as precedents of this kind can be sup-
ported, they can rest on precedents alone, for the
fundamental rights of juries show, that as by their
power they can affect a question of this nature, so,
politically speaking, they have the right. To ascer-
tain this, it is necessary to inquire, whether this law,
now contended for, uniformly and invariably formed

Speech 415

the practice of all the judges in Westminster Hall.
For, if so, then an argument may, with more pro-
priety, be raised ; but if it was disputed, then it is to
be doubted. Precedents ought to be such as are
universally acknowledged, and this, if we are to
credit the highest authority, was not the invariable
practice. Lord Loughborough says, that his prac-
tice was the other way. He declares that he invari-
ably left the whole to the jury; and Lord Camden
gives us to understand the same thing. Here, then,
is proof that it was not universally acquiesced in,
and this, by some of the most respected characters
that ever sat on a bench.

Can we call this a settled practice — a practice
which is contradicted by other precedents? Have
they not varied? I consider nothing but a uniform
course of precedents, so established that the judges
invariably conform to it in their judicial conduct, as
forming a precedent. When this is not the case, we
must examine the precedent, and see how far it is
conformable to principles of general law. If, then,
they have not that character of uniformity, which
gives force to precedents, they are not to be regarded,
for they are too much opposed to fundamental prin-
ciples. The court may, therefore, disregard them,
and say the law was never thus settled. It was a
mere floating of litigated questions. Different con-
duct was pursued by different men, and, therefore,
the court is at liberty to examine the propriety of
all; and if it be convenient that a contrary mode
should be adopted, we ought to examine into what
has been done, for we have a right so to do, and it is

4i6 Alexander Hamilton

our sacred duty. When we pass from this to the
declaratory law of Great Britain, the whole argument
is enforced by one of the first authorities. I do not
consider it as binding, but as an evidence of the
common law. If so, I see not why we may not now
hold it as evidence of another evidence, that the law
had not been settled by a regular course of judicial
precedents. In all the debates on this question, it is
denied to have been so settled. It must then be
confessed that it was so ; the law was one thing, and
the practice another; that to put it out of doubt
was the end and object of Mr. Fox's bill. There-
fore it is in evidence that the law was not settled in
that country. I notice another fact, or historical
evidence of this; it is what was mentioned by Lord
Lansdowne, in the very debates to which I have
before alluded. It is, that twenty years before, a
similar act was brought forward and dropped. Here
then is a matter of fact to show that, in the consid-
eration of that nation, the doctrines of Lord Mans-
field were never palatable nor settled, and that the
opinions of judges and lawyers were considered by
many as not the law of the land. Let it be recol-
lected, too, that with that nation the administration
of justice in the last resort is in the House of Lords.
That being so it gives extreme weight to a declar-
atory act, as it shows the sense of the highest branch
of the judicature of that country. It is in evidence
that what we contend for was and had been the law,
and never was otherwise settled. It is a very honor-
able thing to that country, in a case where party
passions had been excited to a very great height, to

speech 417

see that all united to bring it in. It was first intro-
duced by Mr. Fox; the principal officers of the
crown acquiesced; the Prime-Minister gave it his
support, and in this they were aided by many of the
great law lords. All parties concurred in declaring
the principles of that act to be the law, and not only
does the form prove it to be declaratory, but when
the court read the debates on that subject they will
see this to be the fact. Adding the word '' enacted "
to a bill does not vary the conclusion of its being de-
claratory. The word ** enacted " is commonly super-
added, but the word '' declared " is never used but
when it is intended that the act shall be considered
as declaratory; and when they insert the word ''de-
clare" it is because they deem it important that it
should be so understood. This I deem conclusive
evidence of the intent. Thus also it was understood
by all the judges except Lord Kenyon, and he does
not say that it was not declaratory. To be sure he
makes use of some expressions that look that way,
such as, " that the act had varied the old law. " But
not one word to show that it was not intended by
Parliament to be a declaratory law. But it would
not be surprising that Lord Kenyon, who opposed
the passage of the act, should, in a judicial decision,
still adhere to his old ideas. This, however, does
not affect the evidence which arises from the words
of the act. I join in issue, then, whether this be
sufficient evidence to the court. For I contend, that
notwithstanding the authority of Lord Kenyon and
the cases on the other side, the conclusions they
maintain would be unfair. For if these conclusions

VOL. Vlll. — 27.

41 8 Alexander Hamilton

necessarily tend to the subversion of fundamental
principles, though they be warranted by precedents,
still the precedents ought not to weigh. But should
they have settled the law by their precedents, still
this court will admit any evidence to show that the
facts are otherwise, and the law never was as they
have settled it. In this case, then, I say, as matters
of evidence, these precedents shall not prevail and
shall not have any effect. In practice on this de-
claratory act they have gone into a construction im-
portant to our argument. But previously to entering
into this I shall make one observation to show the
nature of this act to be declaratory ; the recital states
it to be so.

Spencer, Attorney-General — The whole matter in
issue are the words.

Hamilton — Is it to be doubted that every general
issue includes law and fact? Not a case in our
criminal code in which it is otherwise. The con-
struction, the publication, the meaning of the innu-
endoes, the intent and design, are all involved in the
question of libel, and to be decided on the plea of not
guilty, which puts the whole matter in issue. It is,
therefore, a subtlety to say that the fact and law are
not in issue. There can be no distinction taken,
even by judges, between libels and other points.
But will it be said, that when this question was be-
fore the Parliament, whether the law and the fact
should be in issue, that the Parliament did not mean
to give the power to decide on both? It is a mere
cavil to say that the act did not mean to decide
on this very point. The opposition of the twelve

Speech 419

judges has been much insisted on. But in my opin-
ion they have given up the point as to the right of
the jury to decide on the intent. They in some part
of their answer assert the exclusive power of the
court; they deny in terms the power of the jury to
decide on the whole. But when pressed on this
point as to a letter of a treasonable nature, how do
they conclude? Why, the very reverse of all this.
Here, then, we see the hardship into which the best
of men are driven, when compelled to support a
paradox. Can the jury do it with power, and with-
out right? When we say of any forum that it can
do and may hazard the doing a thing, we admit the
legal power to do it. What is meant by the word
* 'hazard " ? If they choose to do it, they have then the
legal right; for legal power includes the legal right.
This is really only a question of words. But in the
exercise of this right, moral ideas are no doubt to
restrain ; for the conscience ought to decide between
the charge and the evidence which ought to prevail,
one side or the other. The moment, however, that
question as to the power is admitted, the whole
argument is given up. I consider the judges driven
to yield up, at the conclusion of their opinion, that
point for which they had in the former parts con-
tended. Thus, then, stands the matter, on English
conduct, and on English precedent. Let us see if
any thing in the annals of America will further the
argument. Zenger's case has been mentioned as an
authority. A decision in a factitious period, and
reprobated at the very time.

A single precedent never forms the law. If in i

420 Alexander Hamilton

England it was fluctuating in an English court, can
I a colonial judge, of a remote colony, ever settle it?
/ He cannot fix in New York what was not fixed in
Great Britain. It was merely one more precedent
to a certain course of practice. But because a
colonial governor, exercising judicial power, subor-
dinate to the judges of the mother country, decides
in this way, can it be said that he can establish the
law, and that he has, by a solitary precedent, fixed
what his superior could not? The most solemn de-
cisions of the court of king's bench are at one time
made and at another time overruled. Why are our
courts to be bound down by the weight of only one
precedent? Is a precedent, like the laws of the
Medes and Persians, never to be changed? This is
to make the colonial precedent of more weight than
is in England allowed to a precedent of Westminster
Hall. To pursue the precedents more emphatically
I our own, let us advert to the sedition law, branded
■ indeed with epithets the most odious, but which will
one day be pronounced a valuable feature in our
, national character. In this we find not only the
I intent but the truth may be submitted to the jury,
1 and that even in a justificatory manner. This, I
I afiirm, was on common-law principles. It would,
} however, be a long detail to investigate the appli-
cability of the common law to the Constitution of the
United States. It is evident, however, that parts of
it use a language which refers to former principles.
The habeas corpus is mentioned, and as treason, it
adopts the very words of the common law. Not
even the Legislature of the Union can change it.

Speech 42 1

Congress itself cannot make constructive or new
treasons. Such is the general tenor of the Constitu-
tion of the United States, that it evidently looks to
antecedent law. What is, on this point, the great
body of the common law ? Natural law and natural
reason applied to the purposes of society. What are .,
the English courts now doing but adopting natural '
law?

What have the court done here? Applied moral
law to constitutional principles, and thus the judges
have confirmed this construction of the common
law; and therefore, I say, by our Constitution it is
said the truth may be given in evidence. In vain it
is to be replied that some committee met, and in
their report gave it the name of amendment. For
when the act says declared, I say the highest legis-
lative bodies in this country have declared that the
common law is, that the truth shall be given in evi-
dence ; and this I urge as a proof of what that com-
mon law is. On this point a fatal doctrine would be
introduced if we were to deny the common law to be
in force according to our federal Constitution. Some
circumstances have doubtless weakened my position.
Impeachments of an extraordinary nature have
echoed through the land, charging as crimes things
unknown, and although our judges, according to that
Constitution, must appeal to the definitions of the
common law for treasons, crimes, and misdemeanors,
this, no doubt, was that no vague words might be
used. If, then, we discharge all evidence of the
common law, they may be pronounced guilty ad
libitum, and the crime and offence being at once

422 Alexander Hamilton

their will, there would be an end of that Consti-
tution.

By analogy a similar construction may be made of
our own Constitution, and our judges thus got rid of.
This may be of the most dangerous consequences.
It admonishes us to use with caution these argu-
ments against the common law; to take care how
we throw down this barrier which may secure the
men we have placed in power; to guard against a
spirit of faction, that great bane to our community,
that mortal poison to our land. It is considered by
all great men as the natural disease of our form of
government, and therefore we ought to be careful to
restrain that spirit. We have been careful that
when one party comes in it shall not be able to break
down and bear away the others. If this be not so,
in vain have we made constitutions; for if it be not
so, then we must go into anarchy, and from thence
to despotism and to a master. Against this I know
there is an almost insurmountable obstacle in the
spirit of the people. They would not submit to be
thus enslaved. Every tongue, every arm would be
uplifted against it; they would resist, and resist,
and resist, till they hurled from their seats those who
dared make the attempt. To watch the progress of
such endeavors is the office of a free press — to give
us early alarm, and put us on our guard against the
encroachments of power. This, then, is a right of
the utmost importance; one for which, instead of
yielding it up, we ought rather to spill our blood.
Going on, however, to precedents, I find another in
the words of Chief -Justice Jay, when pronouncing the

Speech 423

law on this subject. The jury are, in the passage
already cited, told the law, and the fact is for their
determination; I find him telling them that it is
their right. This admits of no qualification. The '
little, miserable conduct of the judge in Zenger's
case, when set against this, will kick the beam ; and
it will be seen that even the twelve judges do not
set up, with deference, however, to their known
ability, that system now insisted on. If the doctrine
for which we contend is true in regard to treason
and murder, it is equally true in respect to libel.
For there is the great danger. Never can tyranny
be introduced into this country by arms; these can )
never get rid of a popular spirit of inquiry ; the only
way to crush it down is by a servile tribunal. It is
only by the abuse of the forms of justice that we
can be enslaved. An army never can do it. For \
ages it can never be attempted. The spirit of the \
country, with arms in their hands, and disciplined as
a militia, would render it impossible. Every pre-
tence that liberty can be thus invaded is idle decla-
mation. It is not to be endangered by a few
thousand of miserable, pitiful military. It is not thus i
that the liberty of this country is to be destroyed.
It is to be subverted only by a pretence of adhering
to all the forms of law, and yet by breaking down
the substance of our liberties; by devoting a
wretched but honest man as the victim of a nominal
trial. It is not by murder, by an open and public
execution that he would be taken off. The sight of
this, of a fellow-citizen's blood, would at first beget
sympathy; this would rouse into action, and the

424 Alexander Hamilton

people, in the madness of their revenge, would break,
on the heads of their oppressors, the chains they had
destined for others.

One argument was stated to the court of a most
technical and precise kind. It was that which re-
lates to putting on the record a part only of the libel.
That on this, no writ of error would lie. What was
the answer given? That it could not be presumed
judges could be so unjust. Why, it requires neither
prejudice nor injustice, it may be matter of opinion.
The argument goes to assert that we are to take for
granted the infallibility of our judges. The court
must see that some better reason must be given,
that it must be shown that this consequence cannot
ensue. If not, it is decisive against the argument.
Surely this question deserves a further investigation.
Very truly and righteously was it once the intention
of the attorney-general that the truth should have
been given in evidence. It is desirable that there
should be judicial grounds to send it back again to a
jury. For surely it is not an immaterial thing that
a high official character should be capable of saying
any thing against the father of this country.

It is important to have it known to the men of
our country, to us all, whether it be true or false ; it
is important to the reputation of him against whom
the charge is made, that it should be examined. It
will be a glorious triumph for truth ; it will be happy
to give it a fair chance of being brought forward ; an
opportunity, in case of another course of things, to
say that the truth stands a chance of being the cri-
terion of justice. Notwithstanding, however, the con-

The French Revolution 425

trary is asserted to be the doctrine of the EngHsh
courts, I am, I confess, happy to hear that the free-
dom of the EngHsh is allowed; that a nation with
king, lords, and commons, can be free. I do not
mean to enter into a comparison between the free-
dom of the two countries. But the attorney-general
has taken vast pains to celebrate Lord Mansfield's
character. Never, till now, did I hear that his repu-
tation was high in republican estimation ; never, till
now, did I consider him as a model for republican
imitation. I do not mean, however, to detract from
the fame of that truly great man, but only conceived
his sentiments were not those fit for a republic. No
man more truly reveres his exalted fame than my-
self; if he had his faults, he had his virtues; and I
would not only tread lightly on his ashes, but drop
a tear as I passed by. He, indeed, seems to have
been the parent of the doctrines of the other side.
Such, however, we trust, will be proved not to be
the doctrines of the common law nor of this country,
and that in proof of this, a new trial will be granted.

FRAGMENT ON THE FRENCH REVOLUTION '

Facts, numerous and unequivocal, demonstrate
that the present ^RA is arnong the most extra-
ordinary which have occurred in the history of human

^ This fragment, now first printed, from the Hamilton MSB., vol. xv.,
p. 117, has no date, but is of interest as showing the effect produced
upon his mind by the French Revolution, and why that great con-
vulsion so affected and colored the views of the Federalists and of
the more conservative classes of every community.

426 Alexander Hamilton

affairs. Opinions, for a long time, have been gradu-
ally gaining ground, which threaten the foundations
of religion, morality, and society. An attack was
first made upon the Christian revelation, for which
natural religion was offered as the substitute. The
Gospel was to be discarded as a gross imposture, but
the being and attributes of God, the obligations of
piety, even the doctrine of a future state of rewards
and punishments, were to be retained and cherished.

In proportion as success has appeared to attend
the plan, a bolder project has been unfolded. The
very existence of a Deity has been questioned and in
some instances denied. The duty of piety has been
ridiculed, the perishable nature of man asserted, and
his hopes bounded to the short span of his earthly
state. Death has been proclaimed an eternal
sleep; "the dogma of the immortality of the soul a
cheat, invented to torment the living for the benefit
of the dead." Irreligion, no longer confined to the
closets of conceited sophists, nor to the haunts of
wealthy riot, has more or less displayed its hideous
front among all classes.

Wise and good men took a lead in delineating
the odious character of despotism, in exhibiting the
advantages of a moderate and well-balanced govern-
ment, in inviting nations to contend for the en-
joyment of national liberty. Fanatics in political
science have since exaggerated and perverted their
doctrines. Theories of government unsuited to the
nature of man, miscalculating the force of his pas-
sions, disregarding the lessons of experimental wis-
dom, have been projected and recommended. These

The French Revolution 427

have everywhere attracted sectaries, and everywhere
the fabric of government has been in different de-
grees undermined.

A league has at length been cemented between the
apostles and disciples of irreligion and of anarchy.
Religion and government have both been stigma-
tized as abuses; as unwarrantable restraints upon
the freedom of man; as causes of the corruption of
his nature, intrinsically good; as sources of an arti-
ficial and false morality which tyrannically robs him
of the enjoyments for which his passions fit him,
and as clogs upon his progress to the perfection for
which he was destined.

As a corollary from these premises, it is a favorite
tenet of the sect that religious opinion of any sort is
unnecessary to society; that the maxims of a genu-
ine morality and the authority of the magistracy and
the laws are a sufficient and ought to be the only
security for civil rights and private happiness.

As another corollary, it is occasionally maintained
by the same sect that but a small portion of power is
requisite to government; that even this portion is
only temporarily necessary, in consequence of the
bad habits which have been produced by the errors
of ancient systems ; and that as human nature shall
refine and ameliorate by the operation of a more en-
lightened plan, government itself will become use-
less, and society will subsist and flourish free from
shackles.

If all .the votaries of this new philosophy do not go
the whole length of its frantic creed, they all go far
enough to endanger the full extent of the mischiefs

428 Alexander Hamilton

which are inherent in so wild and fatal a scheme,
every modification of which aims a mortal blow at
the vitals of human happiness.

The practical development of this pernicious sys-
tem has been seen in France. It has served as an
engine to subvert all her ancient institutions, civil
and religious, with all the checks that served to
mitigate the rigor of authority; it has hurried her
headlong through a rapid succession of dreadful
revolutions, which have laid waste property, made
havoc among the arts, overthrown cities, desolated
provinces, unpeopled regions, crimsoned her soil with
blood, and deluged it in crime, poverty, and wretch-
edness; and all this as yet for no better purpose
than to erect on the ruins of former things a despot-
ism unlimited and uncontrolled; leaving to a de-
luded, an abused, a plundered, a scourged, and an
oppressed people, not even the shadow of liberty to
console them for a long train of substantial misfor-
tunes, of bitter suffering.

This horrid system seemed awhile to threaten the
subversion of civilized society and the introduction
of general disorder among mankind. And though
the frightful evils which have been its first and only
fruits have given a check to its progress, it is to be
feared that the poison has spread too widely and
penetrated too deeply to be as yet eradicated. Its
activity has indeed been suspended, but the elements
remain, concocting for new eruptions as occasion
shall permit. It is greatly to be apprehended that
mankind is not near the end of the misfortunes which
it is calculated to produce, and that it still portends

The Funding System 429

a long train of convulsion, revolution, carnage, de-
vastation, and misery.

Symptoms of the too great prevalence of this sys-
tem in the United States are alarmingly visible. It
was by its influence that efforts were made to em-
bark this country in a common cause with France in
the early period of the present war; to induce our
government to sanction and promote her odious
principles and views with the blood and treasure of
our citizens. It is by its influence that every suc-
ceeding revolution has been approved or excused ; all
the horrors that have been committed justified or
extenuated; that even the last usurpation, which
contradicts all the ostensible principles of the Re-
volution, has been regarded with complacency, and
the despotic constitution engendered by it slyly held
up as a model not unworthy of our imitation.

In the progress of this system., impiety and in-
fidelity have advanced with gigantic strides. Pro-
digious crimes heretofore unknown among us are
seen. The chief and idol of * * * [The rest is
wanting.]

DEFENCE OF THE FUNDING SYSTEM '

The second feature of the plan as stated was to
fund the entire debt, foreign and domestic, original
and assumed.

^ This paper and the one which follows are from the Hamilton MSB.
in Washington, now printed here for the first time. They were not
discovered in season for the volume on Taxation and Finance, where
they belong, and are therefore added here to the miscellaneous papers.
They are unfinished and incomplete, and the originals have marginal

430 Alexander Hamilton

The funding of the debt has been unexpectedly
the theme of much declamation and invective. A
confusion of ideas has been attempted to be produced
among the ignorant. The funding with the assump-
tion has been sometimes treated as the creation of
the debt ; at others the funding has been represented
as its perpetuation, and as a direct attempt to fasten
the burthen irrevocably about the necks of the
people. A particular ingredient in the plan pro-
posed— the rendering the debt redeemable only in
certain proportions — has been pressed to reinforce
this argument and to prove the iniquitous tendency
of the plan. The circumstance of qualified re-
deemability will be spoken of hereafter. Remarks
here will be confined to the mere funding of the
debt.

The Revolution, which gave us independence and
secured us liberty, left upon the country as the
price of it a considerable debt, partly contracted by

notes of points to be investigated. They are numbered 9 and 10
respectively but I have printed them in an inverse order because it
seems to preserve the logical sequence of thought and subject better
than the numerical arrangement. These two papers have no date, and
there is no trace of any preceding numbers. It is possible that they
were intended as part of the unfinished "Vindication of the Funding
System" (Vol. iii., p. i), but they are conceived on a much more
elaborate and extensive plan, and while the "Vindication" belongs to
the year 1791, these papers are clearly later than 1795, when Hamil-
ton retired from office. Unfinished and unrevised as they are, these
essays are to be ranked among the most remarkable of Hamilton's
financial papers. The second one is of especial interest, because it con-
tains an exhaustive defence of the assumption measures — the most
contested portion of Hamilton's financial policy, and upon which his
arguments and opinions in all their extent have never before been
thoroughly known. The discovery of these papers, in a word, has
made an important addition to Hamilton's writings on finance, the
subject in which above all others he was a master.

The Funding System 431

the United States in their joint capacity, partly by
the individual States in their separate capacities.

What was to be done with the debt ? Was it to be
wiped off with a sponge or was it to be provided for ?

The first idea was the extreme of political pro-
fligacy and folly. Governments like individuals have
burthens which ought to be deemed sacred, else they
become mere engines of violence, oppression, extor-
tion, and misery. Adieu to the security of property,
adieu to the security of liberty ! Nothing is then safe.

All our favorite notions of natural and constitu-
tional right vanish. Every thing is brought to a
question of power. Right is anathematized, ex-
communicated, and banished.

In the code of moral and political obligations, that
of paying debts holds a prominent place. Tried by
the test of utility, there is perhaps none of greater
force or extent. Without it, no borrowing or lend-
ing, no selling or purchasing upon time; no credit,
private or public ; consequently a more cramped and
less prosperous agriculture, fewer and more imperfect
mechanic and other industrial arts; less and more
embarrassed commerce; an immense contraction
of national resource and strength. A most active
power in the whole scheme of national happiness
would be destroyed. A vast void would be created.
Every thing would languish an,d wither.

No one will be hardy enough directly to dispute
these positions or advocate the horrid doctrine of
applying the sponge, but it was seen to lurk beneath
some very insidious suggestions, often reiterated and
urged with earnestness and exaggeration.

432 Alexander Hamilton

The debt had a great deal of alloy in it. A great
part of it had been produced for no adequate value.
To pay it, therefore, involved injustice and injury to
the public.

The real state of the fact which is the basis of this
suggestion shall be discussed in another place. Here
it shall be taken for granted that it was well founded.

But what were the causes ? The bad arrangement
and delinquencies of government itself ; the infidelity
of its own agents ; the enhancement of price from the
demand and scarcity incident to a long and exhaust-
ing war ; the embarrassments and risks to individuals
from a depreciating currency; the eventual hazards
inseparable from a state of revolution. These were
the essential causes of the alloy, if any, in the
debt.

Was any one or all of them a good plea to the
government not to pay ? Was it just that the whole
debt should be cancelled because a fifteenth, or a
tenth, or a fifth of it had been contracted without
adequate consideration? Was it equitable that
those persons who had yielded their personal serv-
ices, lent their money, and parted with their prop-
erty to the government, upon fair and reasonable
compensation and values, should lose their rights
because others may have extorted or imposed; be-
cause the disorders in the public arrangements had
prevented proper liquidations of accounts and had
let in unfounded claims; because the infidelity of
the government's own agents had produced dilapida-
tions and had emitted evidences of debt without
value or for little value? Was it reasonable to ob-

The Funding System 433

ject to compensations and allowances predicated
upon a state of war, revolution, disorder, and hazard,
because they were not agreeable to a standard ad-
justed to a state of peace, established government
credit, and safety? An individual may plead duress
and compulsion as an objection to the performance
of his engagements ; but this is impossible to a gov-
ernment. Individuals cannot exercise over it that
species of control which may be demonstrated as
compulsion. It may oppress, but it cannot be op-
pressed. Circumstances which, according to the laws,
enable individuals to demand high prices for their
property are never arguments of compulsion to vit-
iate the contract.

Where would an objection of this kind lead ? War,
insurrection, every great disturbance of the social
order is apt to augment price. Is there constantly
on the return of peace and order to be a revision and
reliquidation or a rejection of the contracts? How
long would governments under such a system obtain
any success but by exactions and violence in similar
emergencies ?

It is plain that such an objection ought to be dis-
carded as a contemptible and pernicious subterfuge.
It was in the view both of justice and policy indis-
pensable to provide fairly for the debt. 'T is afflict-
ing that there should be a state of public opinion or
feeling, however limited, which should encourage a
man to dare to expect to give currency to a contrary
insinuation, or to throw any degree of unpopularity
upon a fair provision for the debt.

Another weapon indirectly used against a pro-

VOL. VIII.— 28.

434 Alexander Hamilton

vision for the debt was the fact of alienations of it at
low values.

But how could this supersede the obligation of the
government to pay or provide? The government
had received the benefit of the services, loans, or
supplies which were the consideration of its con-
tracts. These contracts were in their constitution
alienable and assignable. The proprietors had a
full right to part with them at any value they
pleased, or even to give them away. What was it
to the government how they disposed of them? By
what rule of reason, law, or right was the govern-
ment dispensed, by alienations, provident or im-
provident, of the original proprietors, from paying
its debts and performing its engagements?

It is evident that the only colorable question which
could be raised was not whether the debt should be
provided for, but for whose benefit the provision
should accrue — that of the original proprietors or of
their alienees — a question which will be examined in
another place.

The obligation to provide for the debts of the bene-
fit of those who were best entitled was indisputable.
No argument can enforce it; no man who has the
least regard for his reputation will hazard a denial
of it.

But the anonymous publications have, by insinua-
tions, attempted to raise doubts and prejudices. Not
the mode merely of providing has been attacked,
but by implication any provision whatever. The
debt itself has been sometimes treated as a nuisance,
as a morbid excrescence on the body politic, as the

The Funding System 435

creature of a wicked combination to create a monied
aristocracy and undermine the republican system.
A debt created by that very revolution which gave
us the republican system has been artfully presented
in these odious colors to the dislikes of a spirit of
jealousy and avarice, and those who were disposed
to uphold the integrity and credit of the nation have
been exhibited as conspirators against democratic
principles. It is afflicting that there should be a
state of public information, opinion, or feeling which
should encourage any man to attempt to traffic for
popularity by means so absurd and so base as these.
If they could succeed we must renounce those pre-
tensions to intelligence and light as a people which
we claim hitherto on such just grounds; we must
soon after renounce that republican system of which
these men affect to be so fond.

The plainest maxims of common sense and common
honesty establish that our government had no option
but to make a fair provision for the debt. Justice,
true policy, character, credit, interest, all spoke on
this head a uniform and unequivocal language. Not
to have listened to it would have been to have pro-
strated every thing respectable among nations. It
would have been an act of suicide in the government
at the very commencement of its existence. It
would not have strangled the serpents which threat-
ened, but it would have strangled itself.

The only possible question was about the nature
of the provision. And to this point indeed were con-
fined all the questions formally raised, though in-
directly it has been endeavored to excite prejudices

43^ Alexander Hamilton

in the public mind against the debt itself, and conse-
quently against all provision for it.

But among the questions raised as to the nature
of the provision, I neither recollect nor can trace that
among the legislative parties, while the subject was
under discussion, there was any party against the
principle of funding the debt as contradistinguished
from other modes of providing.

Indeed, but three options occurred: to pay off the
principal and interest at once, which was impossible;
to provide annually for the interest and occasionally
for reimbursing as much of the principal as the public
resources permitted; to fund the debt, or, in other
words, to pledge specified and adequate funds for the
regular payment of interest till the principal was re-
imbursed, and, as an auxiliary measure, to constitute
and pledge adequate funds for the reimbursement of
the principal.

The last was conformable to the sense of America
repeatedly and solemnly expressed. Different acts
of Congress under the old Confederation embrace and
enforce the propriety of this measure, and frequently
with unanimity. The States separately had all
sanctioned it. The objectors were a few solitary
individuals, neither numerous nor significant enough
by weight of talents or character to form a party.

In proposing, therefore, to fimd the debt, I con-
sidered myself not only as pursuing the true prin-
ciples of credit and the true policy of the case, but
the uniform general sense of the Union.

I had heard no lisp from any description of men in
the national legislature of an objection to this idea,

The Funding System 437

and accordingly when the plan proposed was under
discussion there appeared none in opposition to it.

The clamors therefore which have been subse-
quently raised on this head and patronized more or
less directly by a whole party are not less strong in-
dications of the disingenuousness of party spirit than
of an immaturity of ideas on the subject of public
credit.

The substance of the argument against the funding
systems is that by facilitating credit they encourage
to enterprises which produce expense ; by furnishing
in credit a substitute for revenue, they prevent the
raising contemporarily with the causes of expense
as much as might be raised to avoid the unpopularity
of laying new taxes, and in both ways occasion a
tendency to run in debt, consequently a progressive
accumulation of debt and its perpetuation — at least
till it is crushed beneath the load of its own enorm-
ous weight.

An analysis of this argument proves that it turns
upon the abuses of a thing intrinsically good.

A prosperous state of agriculture, commerce, and
manufactures nourishes and begets opulence, re-
source, and strength. These, by inspiring a con-
sciousness of power, never fail to beget in the councils
of nations, under whatever form of government,
pride, ambition, and a sentiment of superiority.
These dispositions lead directly to war, and conse-
quently to expense and to all the calamities which
march in the train of war. Shall we, therefore,
reprobate and reject improvements in agriculture,
commerce, and manufactures?

43^ Alexander Hamilton

Again the same causes leading to opulence, in-
creasing the means of enjoyment, naturally sharpen
the appetite for it, and so promote luxury, extra-
vagance, dissipation, effeminacy, disorders in the
moral and political system, convulsions, revolutions,
the overthrow of nations and empires. Shall we,
therefore, on this account renounce improvements
in agriculture, commerce and manufactures?

Again, science, learning, and knowledge promote
those momentous discoveries and improvements
which accelerate the progress of labor and industry,
and with it the accumulation of that opulence which
is the parent of so many pleasures and pains, so many
blessings and calamities. Shall we, therefore, on
this account explode science, learning, and know-
ledge ?

Again, true liberty, by protecting the exertions
of talents and industry, and securing to them their
justly acquired fruits, tends more powerfully than
any other cause to augment the mass of national
wealth and to produce the mischiefs of opulence.
Shall we, therefore, on this account proscribe liberty
also?

What good, in fine, shall we retain? 'T is the por-
tion of man, assigned to him by the eternal allotment
of Providence that every good he enjoys shall be
alloyed with ills, that every source of his bliss shall
be a source of his affliction — except virtue alone, the
only unmixed good which is permitted to his tem-
poral condition.

But shall we on this account forego any advantage
which we are fitted to enjoy ? Shall we put in prac-

The Funding System 439

tice the horrid system of the detestable Robespierre ?
Shall we make war upon science and its professors?
Shall we destroy the arts useful as well as pleasur-
able? Shall we make knowledge a crime, ignorance
a gratification ? Shall we lay in ruins our towns and
deform the face of our fields? Shall we enchain the
human mind and blunt all its energies under the
withering influences of privation and the benumbing
strokes of terror? Shall we substitute the unmin-
gled misery of a gloomy and destructive despotism
to the alternate sunshine and storms of liberty ?

The very objection to funding systems makes
their panegyric. '' They facilitate credit'' ; they give
energy, solidity, and extent to the credit of a nation ;
they enable it in great and dangerous emergencies to
obtain readily and copiously the supplies of money
of which it stands in need for its defence, safety, and
the preservation or advancement of its interests.
They enable it to do this, too, without crushing the
people beneath the weight of intolerable taxes ; with-
out taking from industry the resources necessary for
its vigorous prosecution; without emptying all the
property of individuals into the public lap; without
subverting the foundation of social order.

Indeed, war, in the modem system of it, offers but
two options — credit or the devastation of private
property. 'T is impossible merely with that portion
of the income of the community which can be spared
from the wants, conveniences, and industrious pur-
suits of individuals to face the expenses of a serious
war during its progress.

There must be anticipation by credit, or there must

440 Alexander Hamilton

be a violent usurpation of private property. The
state must trench upon the capital instead of the
revenue of the people, and thus every war would in-
volve a temporary ruin.

'T is the signal merit of a vigorous system of
national credit, that it enables a government to
support war without violating property, destroying in-
dustry, or interfering unreasonably with individual
enjoyments. The citizens retain their capital to
carry on their several businesses and a due propor-
tion of its produce for obtaining their usual comforts.
Agriculture, commerce, and manufactures may re-
ceive some check, but they receive no serious wound ;
their stamina remain, and, on peace returning, they
quickly resume their wonted elasticity.

War, by the use of credit, becomes less a scourge
and loses a great portion of its sting.

Will it be said that equal credit may be established
without funding systems? Then I answer the ob-
jection made to those systems will apply to that
mode whatever it is by which this equal credit is
obtained. 'T is credit which, giving extraordinary
resources to government encourages to enterprises
that produce expense, and which, furnishing a sub-
stitute for revenue, relaxes the efforts of taxation,
and prevents the raising for the current expenditure
as much as might be raised in this way. However
that credit is acquired the same consequences follow
— the same evils ensue.

Will it be said that without funding systems not
an equal but a competent credit might be secured ? I
answer by asking what is this competent credit ? Is

The Funding System 441

it the power of obtaining by loans all that the state
may want for extraordinary exigencies, more than
it can conveniently and without oppression or dis-
order raise on the citizens? If any thing less it is
plainly not enough, and if it is this it is as much as
funding systems effect. The how much in each case
to be obtained in loans beyond what can be conve-
niently raised in taxes depends on the pressure of the
occasion and the opinion of the legislature of the day.
And this opinion will be affected by the temper of
the times — the degree of popular favor or disfavor
towards the object of expense and the genius of the
government. A credit is not good which does not
extend the power of the government to borrow to
the utmost limit of the power of individuals to lend.

Thus it appears that the great objection to fund-
ing systems resolves itself into an objection to credit
in the abstract, and if listened to drives us to the
alternative of a mean surrender of our rights and in-
terests to every enterprising invader, or to the op-
pression of the citizens and destruction of capital
and industry in every war in which we should be en-
gaged, and in the end from the insupportableness of
that situation to the same surrender of our rights
and interests.

Indeed as far as it is the attribute of funding sys-
tems to invigorate credit, it is their tendency in an
important particular to diminish debt. This relates
to the lower or higher rate of interest at which money
is borrowed according to the state of credit. A
government which borrows 100 dollars at three per
cent, owes in fact a less debt than a government

442 Alexander Hamilton

which is obliged to borrow the same sum at five per
cent. Interest is always a part of the debt, and it is
self-evident that the ultimate discharge of one which
bears five per cent, will exhaust more money or in-
come than that of one which only bears three per
cent. This principle runs through all the public
operations in which credit is concerned, and the
difference in the result of the public expenditures,
and consequently its debts, from a perfect or an im-
perfect state of credit, is immense.

Every state ought to aim at rendering its credit —
that is, its ability to borrow — commensurate with
the utmost extent of the lending faculties of the
community and of all others who can have access to
its loans. 'T is then that it puts itself in a condition
to exercise the greatest portion of strength of which
it is capable, and has its destiny most completely in
its own hands. 'T is then that it is able to supply
all its wants, not only in the most effectual manner,
but at the cheapest rate. 'T is then that the various
departments of its industry are liable to the least
disturbance and proceed with the most steady and
vigorous motion. An ignorance which benights the
political world and disputes the first principles of
administration is requisite to bring this position for
a moment into question. The principle on which
such a question could be founded would equally com-
bat every institution that promotes the perfection
of the social organization; for this perfection in all
its shapes, by giving a consciousness of strength and
resource and inspiring pride, tends to ambitious pur-
suits, to war, expense, and debt.

The Funding System 443

On this question, as on most others, evils are
traced to a wrong source. Funding systems, as the
engines of credit, are blamed for the wars, expenses,
and debts of nations. Do these evils prevail less in
countries where either those systems do not exist or
where they exist partially and imperfectly? Great
Britain is the country where they exist in most en-
ergy. Her wars have no doubt been frequent, her
expenses great, and her debts are vast. But is not
this, with due allowance for difference of circum-
stances, the description of all the great powers of
Europe — France, Spain, Austria, Russia, Prussia?
Are they not as frequently at war as Great Britain,
and as often of their own choice? Have not their
expenses compared with their means and the state of
society been as great? Have they not all, except
Prussia, heavy debts?

The debt of France brought about her revolution.
Financial embarrassments led to those steps which
led to the overthrow of the government and to all the
terrible scenes which have followed.

Let us then say, as the truth is, not that funding
systems produce wars, expenses, and debts, but that
the ambition, avarice, revenge, and injustice of man
produce them. The seeds of war are sown thickly
in the human breast. It is astonishing, after the
experience of its having deluged the world with
calamities for so many ages, with how great pre-
cipitancy and levity nations still rush to arms
against each other.

Besides what we see abroad, what have we re-
cently witnessed among ourselves? Never was a

444 Alexander Hamilton

thing more manifest than that our true policy lay in
cultivating peace with scrupulous care. Never had
a nation a stronger interest. Yet how many were
there who directly, and indirectly raised and joined
in the cry of war. Sympathy with one nation and
animosity against another, made it infinitely difficult
for the government to steer a course calculated to
avoid our being implicated in the volcano, which
shook and overwhelmed Europe. Vague speculations
about the cause of liberty seconded by angry passions,
had like to have plunged this young country, just
recovering from the effects of the long and desolating
war, which confirmed its revolution, just emerging
from a state little short of anarchy; just begin-
ning to establish system and order, to revive credit
and confidence, into an abyss of war, confusion, and
distress !

After all the experience, which has been had upon
the point, shall we still charge upon funding systems
evils which are truly chargeable upon the bad and
turbulent passions of the human mind?

Peruse the history of Europe from its earliest pe-
riod, were wars less frequent or pernicious before the
system of credit was introduced than they have been
since ? They were more frequent and more destruc-
tive though perhaps not of as long duration at one
time.

But they did not equally produce debt. This is
true, yet it remains to compare the evils of debt with
those which resulted from the antecedent system of
war — the devastations and extortions, the oppres-
sions, and derangements of industry in all its

The Funding System 445

branches ; and it remains to consider whether expedi-
ents may not be devised, which may secure to nations
the advantages of credit and avoid essentially its
evils. If this shall be practicable, the argument in
favor of the system of credit has no counterpoise and
becomes altogether conclusive.

Credit may be called a new power in the mechan-
ism of national affairs. It is a great and a very use-
ful one, but the art of regulating it properly, as is
the case with every new and great contrivance, has
been till lately imperfectly understood. The rule of
making contemporary provision for the extinguish-
ment of principal as well as for the payment of in-
terest in the act of contracting new debt, is the
desideratum — the true panacea.

But this, like most others, is not an absolute but a
relative question. If it were even admitted that the
system of anticipation by credit is, in the abstract, a
bad one, it will not follow that it can be renounced
by any one nation while nations in general continue
to use it. It is so immense a power in the affairs of
war, that a nation without credit would be in great
danger of falling a victim in the first war with a
power possessing a vigorous and flourishing credit.

What astonishing efforts has credit enabled Great
Britain to make? What astonishing efforts does it
enable her at this very moment to continue ? What
true Englishman, whatever may be his opinion of
the merits and wisdom of the contest in which his
country is engaged, does not rejoice that she is able
to employ so powerful an instrument of warfare?
However he may wish for peace, he will reflect that

44^ Alexander Hamilton

there must be two parties to the pacification, and
that it is possible the enemy may either be unwilling
to make peace, or only willing to make it on terms
too disadvantageous and humiliating.

He must, therefore, cherish the national credit, as
an engine by which war, if inevitable can be main-
tained, and by which, from that very possibility, a
better peace can be secured.

It is remarkable too that Great Britain, the only
power which has uniformly cultivated an enlightened
and exact plan of national credit at a juncture so
critical as the present, continues to uphold the vari-
ous branches of her commerce and industry in great
energy and prosperity, and will in the end tax her
adversary, in exchange for the products of her in-
dustry, with a large proportion of the expenses of
the actual war.

The commerce and manufactures of France are so
prostrated that this consequence cannot but follow.
For some years to come, after peace, she must be
customer to Great Britain for vast supplies.

But let us still return to and keep in view this very
material point already stated. 'T is credit in gen-
eral, not funding systems in particular, against
which the objections made, as far as they have
foundation, lie. However obtained, it leads to ex-
actly the same consequences, which are charged on
funding systems, which are no otherwise answerable
for those consequences than as they are means of
credit.

Any provision, therefore, for our revolution debt,
which from its justice and efficiency would have given

The Funding System 447

satisfaction and inspired confidence, would equally
have conferred national credit, and would have been
equally liable to the evils of an abuse of credit.

The dilemma was either to make and continue a
just and adequate provision for the debt, till it was
discharged, and thereby establish credit, and incur
the chances of the evils incident to its abuse ; or not
to make a just and adequate provision for the debt,
and so commit national injustice, incur national dis-
honor and disgrace, and, it may be added, shake
and weaken the foundation of property and social
security.

Thus we may discard from the examination of the
subject, the general question whether the system of
credit (and as a means of credit, the funding of
debts) is a salutary or a pernicious system. It could
only with propriety arise with regard to the policy
of the government in future cases — that is, how it
would or would not in future emergencies resort to
anticipation by credit, or find immediate resources
in contemporary contributions of the community and
in the spoils of war. It could never be properly
raised as to a debt previously contracted. The ob-
jections to a system of credit could never, with an
honest man, justify a moment's hesitation about the
obligation and propriety of a just and efficacious
provision for a debt previously incurred, either from
a real necessity or from a past neglect of the govern-
ment to attend duly to the impolicy of employing
credit and of contracting debt.

A government which does not rest on the basis of
iustice rests on that of force. There is no middle

448 Alexander Hamilton

ground. Establish that a government may decline
a provision for its debts, though able to make it, and
you overthrow all public morality, you unhinge
all the principles that must preserve the limits of
free constitutions, you have anarchy, despotism, or
what you please, but you have no just or regular
government.

In all questions about the advantages or disad-
vantages of national credit, or in similar questions
which it has been seen may be raised (and it may be
added have been raised) with respect to all the
sources of social happiness and national prosperity,
the difference between the true politician and the
political empyric is this: the latter will either at-
tempt to travel out of human nature and introduce
institutions and projects for which man is not fitted
and which perish in the imbecility of their own con-
ception and structure, or without proposing or at-
tempting any substitute they content themselves
with exposing and declaiming against the ill sides
of things, and with puzzling and embarrassing
every practicable scheme of administration which
is adopted. The last indeed is the most usual be-
cause the easiest course, and it embraces in its prac-
tice all those hunters after popularity who, knowing
better, make a traf^c of the weak sides of the human
understanding and passions.

The true politician, on the contrary, takes human
nature (and human society its aggregate) as he finds
it, a compound of good and ill qualities, of good and
ill tendencies, endued with powers and actuated by
passions and propensities which blend enjoyment

The Funding System 449

with suffering and make the causes of welfare the
causes of misfortune.

With this view of human nature he will not at-
tempt to warp or disturb its natural direction, he
will not attempt to promote its happiness by means
to which it is not suited, he will not reject the em-
ployment of the means which constitute its bliss be-
cause they necessarily involve alloy and danger, but
he will seek to promote its action according to the
bias of his nature, to lead him to the development of
his energies according to the scope of his passions,
and erecting the social organization on this basis he
will favor all those institutions and plans which tend
to make men happy according to their natural bent,
which multiply the sources of individual enjoyment
and increase national resources and strength, taking
care to infuse in each case all the ingredients which
can be devised as preventives or correctives of the
evil which is the eternal concomitant of temporal
blessing.

Thus, observing the immense importance of credit
to the strength and security of nations, he will en-
deavor to obtain it for his own country in its highest
perfection, by the most efficient means ; yet not over-
looking the abuses to which, like all other good things,
it is liable, he will seek to guard against them by
prompting a spirit of true national economy, by pur-
suing steadily, especially in a country which has no
need of external acquisition, the maxims of justice,
moderation, and peace, and by endeavoring to es-
tablish, as far as human inconstancy allows, certain
fixed principles in the administration of the finances

VOL. VIII. — 2g.

450 Alexander Hamilton

calculated to secure efficaciously the extinguishment
of debt as fast at least as the public exigencies of the
nation are likely to occasion the contracting of it.
These, I can truly say, are the principles which have
regulated every part of my conduct in my late office.

And as a first step to this great result, I proposed
the funding of the public debt.

This quality of funding appeared to me essential
in the plan of providing, for different reasons.

1. First it appeared to me advisable that the na-
ture of the provision should be such as to give satis-
faction and confidence by inspiring an opinion of
security to the creditors. This was important not
only as it regarded their advantage, but as it regarded
the public interest, the national credit was intimately
connected with that satisfaction and confidence.
They tended besides to produce another important
effect which will be noticed hereafter.

2. It was desirable to guard the government and
the creditors against the danger of inconstancy in
the public councils. The debt being once funded, it
would require the concurrence of both branches of
the legislature and of the President, or of two thirds
of both branches overruling the opposition of the
President, to shake the provision. Of this there was
a moral impossibility — at least the highest degree of
improbability. To make a provision annually would
require the like concurrence in its favor; of course,
would be continually liable to be defeated by im-
proper views on either of the branches or depart-
ments. Whoever has attended to the course of our
public councils, and to the dispositions which have

The Funding System 451

been manifested by a powerful party in them, must
be sensible that danger in this case was not ideal.
There was good ground to apprehend that the acci-
dental result of a single election and the accidental
prevalency of ill-humors in parts of the community
might violate the justice and prostrate the credit of
the nation.

It is the part of wisdom in a government, as well
as in an individual, to guard against its own infirmi-
ties; and, having taken beforehand a comprehensive
view of its duty and interest, to tie itself down by
every constitutional precaution to the steady pur-
suit of them.

3. It appeared important to give all practicable
solidity and stability to the funds or stock which
constituted the debt. The funding of the debt was
essential to this end. This is but an inference from
the preceding remarks. It was to result from ob-
viating the danger of fluctuating councils concerning
the debt from the satisfaction and confidence of the
creditors arising from an opinion of security, from
the constant estimation in which that opinion of
security would cause it to be holden, not only by the
creditors, but by all other classes of the community,
and by foreigners.

One effect of this was to accelerate the period
which would terminate an irregular and excessive
spirit of speculation in the funds. It is evident that
this must have been in proportion to the causes cal-
culated to produce fluctuation in the public opinion
with regard to the value of the funds. Insecurity,
the chance of the provision being interrupted or de-

452 Alexander Hamilton

teriorated, occurring at every new period of making
it, was a more fruitful source than any other of that
fluctuation of opinion. The degree of this being
always incalculable would have given the utmost
scope to imagination, to the acts and intrigues of
stock-jobbers, and must have kept the funds con-
stantly an object of the most gambling speculation.

The moment opinion, regulated by experience, had
liquidated the value of the funds, speculation would
be confined within the limits necessary to give them
due activity and value. The immutability of the
provision by furnishing better data of calculation, as
well as giving security, would hasten that moment,
and once arrived it would continue.

The funds in this State would become as they
ought to be an object of ordinary and temperate
speculation like any other article, whether of com-
merce, manufactures, or agriculture. While on the
opposite plan they would be as long as they existed
a mere game of chance and a subject of the most
gambling speculation.

It may be remarked that it is now a considerable
time since the public stock has reached the desirable
point and put an end to the excessive spirit of specu-
lation. This, for some time past, has been far more
active, even to intemperateness in other pursuits, in
trading adventures and in lands. And it is curious
to observe how little clamor there is against the
spirit of speculation in its present direction ; though
it were not difficult to demonstrate that it is not less
extravagant or as pernicious in the shape of land-
jobbing than in that of stock- jobbing. But many

The Funding System 453

of the noisy patriots who were not in condition to be
stock-jobbers are land-jobbers, and have a becoming
tenderness for this species of extravagance. And
virtuous, sensible men, lamenting the partialities of
all over-driven speculation, know at the same time
that they are inseparable from the spirit and free-
dom of commerce and that the cure must result from
the disease.

Another important effect of funding the debt was
the quick appreciation of the funds from the same
opinion of security. This was calculated to save
immense sums to the country. Foreigners else
would have become the proprietors of the stock at
great undervalues, to the loss of millions to the
holders and to the country. The loss to the holders
is perceived at once, but the loss to the country,
though an obvious consequence, has not been equally
palpable to all.

But a little reflection and combination must make
it evident to the meanest capacity. If the sale of
any article is made at an undervalue by one citizen
to another of the same country, what one loses the
other gains, and containing within its own bosom
the gainer as well as the loser is neither the richer nor
the poorer by the operation. It possesses exactly
the same property which it had before the bargain
between its two citizens. .But when the citizen of
one country sells to the citizen of another country
residing abroad any article at an undervalue, a more
valuable thing goes out of the country in exchange
for a less valuable thing which is brought into it,
and the state whose citizen is the seller loses in exact

454 Alexander Hamilton

proportion to the difference of value of the things
exchanged, whether commodity for commodity, or
commodity for money — that is, the state loses
exactly what its citizen loses by the disadvantageous
sale.

It has been imagined, however, that if our debt
had not been funded, its precariousness would have
been a security against transfers to foreigners. But
waiving the observation that this precariousness,
which it is supposed would deter foreigners, would
imply a depreciation and discredit of the funds, and
consequently a bad state of national credit, it may
be replied that the effect expected from it would not
have been realized.

Foreigners who possessed redundant capitals would
still have devoted a part of them to play in this pre-
carious stock, to buy and to sell again. And, though
permanent transfers of the stock might not have
taken place in the same degree, yet it is probable
more property of the country in another shape might
have been extracted by the force of this gambling
capital acting upon the occasional necessities and
sporting with the occasional confidences of our citizens.

Another expedient has been mentioned for pre-
venting alienations, and consequently loss by aliena-
tions to foreigners. This was to forbid the alienations
to foreigners; in other words, to render them in-
capable of holding the debt.

But this expedient was inadmissible, and would
have been ineffectual.

I. The original debt was alienable without re-
striction, and foreigners had actually become the

The Funding System 455

bona-fide proprietors of a considerable sum of it
which they had an indisputable title to a provision
for, and it was not easy in many cases to distinguish
between past and future acquisition, without danger
of interfering with rights already acquired.

2. The original debt being in its constitution alien-
able without restriction, which was an ingredient of
value to the holder, it could not have been taken
away without breach of contract, unless with his con-
sent upon an equivalent, and this would have in-
creased the embarrassment of such a modification of
the debt with consent of the creditors as would con-
sist with the contract and with the immediate re-
quisite accommodation of the government.

3. It was ineligible, as calculated to diminish the
value of the stock. All restraints upon alienation,
by fettering the free use and circulation of an article
of property, naturally lessen its value. As far as
foreign capital could have been excluded from the
stock market, the effect would have been sensible
upon it. It is evident that the value of an article
must depend materially on the quantity of capital
employed in its negotiations, and it is known that
foreign capital has formed and must have formed a
considerable portion of that which was employed in
the funds.

But, in fact, this exclusion would not have taken
place. Foreigners under the cover of citizens would
have continued to speculate in the funds, but they
would have given considerably less for them on ac-
count of the additional risk from the necessity of
that cover. And it might have happened that fewer

45^ Alexander Hamilton

of those solid and discreet capitalists, who meant to
hold, would have engaged in the business, and more
of those who meant a temporary profit proportioned
to the risk, and, in the end, the probability was the
price of stock would have been much lower and less
steady, and the foreigners would have had as much
of the property either in the shape of stock in trust
or in equivalents resulting from the traffic in it as if
there was not restriction, and for a less compensa-
tion to the country. This has been exemplified in
the case of our waste-lands in those States which do
not permit foreigners to hold. The only effect, then,
of the restriction would have been to depreciate the
stock of the country, the thermometer of its credit,
without any counterbalancing good.

Indeed, if the exclusion of foreigners could have
been effected, cui bono ? What harm is there that
foreigners should speculate in our funds, if they give
full value for them? Will not the money they give
for the stock, employed in extending our commerce,
agriculture, manufactures, roads, canals, and other
ameliorations, more than indemnify the country for
the interest which they will receive upon the stock,
till the principal is reimbursed? In a country with
so much improvable matter in a crude state as ours
it cannot be doubted that capital employed in those
ways will incomparably more than repay the interest
of the money employed.

But to overthrow this important consideration, it
is alleged that the money acquired by the sales of
stock to foreigners would not be employed on the
objects which have been mentioned, but would be

The Funding System 457

dissipated in the enjoyments of luxury and extra-
vagance and sent abroad again to pay for these
objects, to the loss pro tanto of the country?

This suggestion was not founded in probability,
nor has been warranted by the fact. It was true
that a large increase of active capital and augmenta-
tion of private fortunes would beget some aug-
mentation of expense among individuals, and that
a portion of this expense would be laid out on foreign
articles of luxury. But the proportion which this
employment of the new capital would bear to the
part of it which would be employed on useful and
profitable objects, would be and has been inconsider-
able. Whoever will impartially look around will see
that the great body of the new capital created by
the stock has been employed in extending commerce,
agriculture, manufactures, and other improvements.
Our own real navigation has been much increased,
our external commerce is carried on much more
upon our own capitals than it was; our marine in-
surances in a much greater proportion are made by
ourselves; our manufactures are increased in num-
ber and carried on upon a larger scale. Settlements
of our waste-land are progressing with more vigor
than at any former period. Our cities and towns
are increasing rapidly by the addition of new and
better houses. Canals are^ opening, bridges are
building with more spirit and effect than was ever
known at a former period. The value of lands has
risen everywhere.

These circumstances (though other causes may
have co-operated) it cannot be doubted by a

45^ Alexander Hamilton

well-formed or candid man are imputable in a great
degree to the increase of capital in public debt, and
they prove that the predictions of the dissipation in
luxurious extravagances have not been verified. If
a part has gone in that way, this loss has not been
considerable enough to impair the force of the argu-
ment. The universal vivification of the energies of
industry has laid the foundation of benefits far
greater than the interests to be paid to foreigners can
counterbalance as a disadvantage.

Indeed, it is a question whether there has not been
an incidental advantage equivalent to the incidental
disadvantage of an increased expense in foreign
articles. It is the restoration of stock alienated to
the country by the emigration to it of foreign set-
tlers with capitals. It may be said that this advan-
tage is foreign to the operation of the plan — it arises
from other causes out of the state of Europe. But
it is to be remembered that collateral facilities, when
dispositions to a certain event exist, contribute to
give them an effect which they would not have with-
out those facilities. The convenient mode of trans-
ferring property to this country, through the medium
of our stock in the markets of Europe, has materially
promoted the emigration of persons possessed of cap-
ital. And if our government continues to operate in
a manner which will maintain the confidence of for-
eigners, it is a question whether the possession of
large sums in our funds will not bring over most of
the proprietors, so as to reinvest the country with
the alienated stock, and thus procure it a double
compensation on foreign alienations.

The Funding System 459

A third important effect of giving soHdity and sta-
bihty to the stock by funding the debt, was the
rendering it useful as capital. Those who may deny
that it has even this tendency in defiance of the most
manifest facts, cannot dispute that it must have it,
if at all, in proportion to the security of the footing
upon which it stands.

The opinion of its being a safe and substantial
property is essential to that ready marketable
quality which will render it expedient to invest
unemployed monies in it till the opportunity of em-
ployment occurs, and certain that it can be brought
into action when the opporuntity arrives.

To be certain of its operation as active capital it
is only necessary to consider that it is property which
can almost at any moment he turned into money. All
property is capital; that which can quickly and at
all times be converted into money is active capital.
It is nearly the same thing as if the possessor had an
equal sum of money in hand. The profound and
ingenious Hume thus describes its effects.

******

Who doubts that a man who has in his desk 10,000
dollars in good bank notes, has that sum of active
capital? Who doubts any more, though there be
two steps in the process, that a man who has in his
hand 10,000 dollars of the notes of merchants of un-
questionable solidity and credit, which he can at any
moment discount at the banks, has an equal sum,
bating the price of discount, of active capital ? Who
can doubt any more that the possessor of 10,000
dollars of funded stock which he can readily carry

46o Alexander Hamilton

into the market and sell for 10,000 dollars of these
merchants' or bank notes, or gold and silver, is
equally possessor of so much active capital?

In this country, where the sum of gold and silver,
the great organ of alienation and circulation, is com-
paratively more limited than in Europe, the cer-
tainty of an immediate conversion of stock into
money is not as great as in some of the great stock
markets of Europe; but the difference is not so
material as to prevent the effect being substantially
the same.

When the stock is unfunded and precarious, its
salableness is proportionably fluctuating and uncer-
tain. So much so, that it does not possess the quality
of active capital, but inverts the effect by becoming
a mere subject of gambling speculation. This was
noticed in my first report on the finances in these
words. * * *

Some theoretical writers on political economy have
contested the effect of public funds as capital.

Their objections, and an answer to them are to be
found in my report on manufactures. * * *

It may be useful to add some further illustrations.
Trace the progress of a public debt in a particular
case.

The government borrows of an individual one hun-
dred dollars in specie, for which it gives its funded
bonds. These hundred dollars are expended on
some branch of the public service. It is evident
they are not annihilated; they only pass from the
individual who lent, to the individual or individuals
to whom the government has disbursed them. They

The Funding System 461

continue, in the hands of their new masters, to per-
form their usual functions, as capital. But besides
this, the lender has the bonds of the government for
the sum lent. These from their negotiable and easily
vendible nature, can at any moment be applied by
him to any useful or profitable undertaking which
occurs; and thus the credit of the government pro- <^'
duces a new and additional capital, equal to one ' '-'^
hundred dollars, which, with the equivalent for the
interest on that sum, temporarily diverted from
other employments while passing into and out of
the public coffers, continues its instrumentality as a
capital, while it remains not re-imbursed.

When, indeed, the money borrowed by the gov-
ernment is sent abroad to be expended, the effect
above described does not happen, unless the expen-
diture is for a purpose which brings a return. But
this is a partial exception to the general rule.

It has been said that from the sum of the debt
acting as capital is to be deducted the. quantity of
money actually employed in the negotiation of the
funds. To conceive well of the immense disparity
between the capital negotiated and the organ of
negotiation, money, it may be useful to advert to
the small quantity of specie in certain nations of
immense capital in fixed and negotiable property.
The specie of Great Britain, for example, is computed
as from 15,000,000 to 20,000,000 stg. How small a
sum to be the organ of all the alienations of landed
property, ships, merchandise, manufactures, public
funds, and of insurances and other pecuniary nego-
tiations! The capital value of its land is estimated

462 Alexander Hamilton

at * * * The public funds amount to near
* * * The objects of foreign and domestic com-
merce, including manufactures and other casual ob-
jects, cannot be estimated at less than * * *
Yet the small sum of from 15,000,000 to 20,000,000
of specie is directly and indirectly the instrument of
all the alienation of this prodigious mass. This gives
us an idea of the vast activity of the power.

A simple, concise, and yet comprehensive view of
the effect of the funds as capital is comprised in
this exhibition of it. To the mass of active capital
resulting from the property and credit of all the
individuals of the nation, is added another mass con-
stituted as the joint credit of the whole nation, and
existing in the shape of the government stock, which
continues till that stock is extinguished by redemp-
tion or reimbursement. Is it not evident that this
throwing into the common stock of individual opera-
tions the credit of the nation, must increase and in-
vigorate the powers of industrious enterprise ?

See what a wonderful spectacle Great Britain ex-
hibits. Observe the mature state of her agricultural
improvements under the auspices of large capitals
employed to that end. Consider the extent of her
navigation and external commerce. Note the huge
and varied pile of her manufactures. See her factors
and agents spread over the four quarters of the globe,
doing a great part of the business of other nations
by force of capital. View the great extent of her
marine insurances attracting to her a considerable
portion of the profits of the commerce of most other
nations. View her, in fine, the creditor of the world.

The Funding System 463

Consider withal what her population is, that all
the gold and silver she contains probably falls short
of 20,000,000 stg., then ask whether there be not a
strong presumption that her public funds are a prin-
cipal pillar of this astonishing edifice, as her own men
of business generally believe. But another and a
powerful motive to the funding of the debt was that
it would serve as one of the equivalents to be offered
to induce the public creditors to consent voluntarily
to those modifications of their claims which the pub-
lic accommodation required.

The public debt of this country, as I stated in my
first report upon the finances, was fifty-four millions.

There was no obligation to do more than make
provision annually for the debt. The funding of it
was no part of the original contract.

This, therefore, superadded a material advantage
for the creditors to their primitive rights. The
additional security was a reasonable ingredient or
commutation to be proposed for something to be
relinquished.

Among individuals, money lent for a length of
time on personal security frequently carries a higher
interest than if lent on real security. The change
from one to the other would be a fair ground for a
stipulation to lower the interest as the consideration.
A government need not fear imputations on its
honor or loss of credit by regulating itself in its
money concerns according to the rules which pre-
vail among fair individuals.

The third feature of my plan was to provide, in the
first instance, for the foreign part of the general

464 Alexander Hamilton

debt in exact conformity with the contracts con-
cerning it.

The propriety of this has been uncontested and
speaks for itself. It would have been highly inex-
pedient and would have exposed our credit abroad
to have perplexed our creditors with any new propo-
sitions concerning their debts. Even the measure of
endeavoring to transfer the foreign debt to a domes-
tic foundation, which has been subsequently pro-
posed, upon equivalents to be given, would have
been premature till confidence had been inspired by
an experience of the efficacy of the provision.

The fourth feature was "to take, as the basis of
the provision for the domestic part of the general
debt, the contracts with the creditors as they stood
at the time of the adoption of the new Constitution,
according to the then unrevoked acts and resolu-
tions of the former government, except as to such
alterations as they might, on legal principles, be pro-
nounced to have undergone by voluntary acts and
acquiescences of the creditors themselves; bottom-
ing the provision on this principle, that those con-
tracts were to be fulfilled as far and as fast as was
practicable, and were not to be departed from with-
out the free consent of the creditors."

To a man who thinks justly and feels rightly for
the reputation of the country of which he is a citizen,
it is a humiliating reflection that it should be at all
necessary to insist on the propriety of regulating the
provision for the debt by the contracts concerning it.

The obligation to fulfil contracts is so fundamental
a principle of private morality and social justice — so

The Funding System 465

essential a basis of national credit, that nothing less
than the fact itself could induce a belief that the
application of the rule to our public debt could have
been controverted by leaders of parties or by any
considerable portion of the community. Yet, in
truth, it has been controverted, either avowedly or
virtually, by a great proportion of all parties, by
declarations or propositions disclaiming the applica-
tion of the principle, or by the rejection of proposi-
tions necessary to give it effect.

The general proposition, indeed, which affirms the
obligation of fulfilling contracts, on governments as
well as individuals, was of a nature which the most
profligate politician was not shameless enough to
deny.

But it has been contended that the case of our pub-
lic debt was an extraordinary and peculiar case, jus-
tifying, on great principles of national justice and
policy, a departure from common rules. The quan-
tity of alloy in its original concoction, the extensive
alienations at undervalues, the extreme point of de-
preciation for a certain period, the confused state of
the debt by antecedent violations of contract and
by the concession of partial advantages to particular
descriptions of it, the impossibility of reinstating the
primitive contracts which had been formerly vio-
lated, and the inequality of a full provision accord-
ing to the new, — all these were urged or espoused as
reasons for arbitrary provisions for the debt accord-
ing to certain abstract notions of equity and right.
It has been intimated that these heretics were divided
into two principal classes: one which advocated a

VOL. VIII. — 30.

466 Alexander Hamilton

provision for the debt on the ground of a discrimina-
tion between original holders and alienees; another
which advocated an equal provision for all at some
arbitrary rate of interest inferior to the stipulated
rates.

The first was apparently at least subdivided into
three lesser sects: one which contended for provid-
ing in f ayor of original holders according to the terms
of the contract, and in cases of alienation by a kind
of composition or compromise between the original
holders and alienees, which, in the course of the de-
bate in Congress, took the specific form of giving ten
shillings in the pound to one and the same to the
other; another which contended for a full premium
for original holders who had not alienated, and for
an inferior one to alienees, without regarding the
original holders who had alienated ; a third for a re-
liquidation of the debt, making a full provision ac-
cording to that reliquidation for original holders and
an inferior one for alienees, with or without regard
to the creditors who alienated.

The second general sect had also a diversity of
opinions, some willing to allow a higher, some a
lower rate of interest ; some willing to fix the stand-
ard absolutely, without compensations for the reduc-
tion ; others willing to give some kind of equivalents,
but to make the provision absolute and final, leaving
no option to the creditors.

The latter, when the subject was under debate,
made no direct propositions; but then and since,
they discovered their intentions in their conversa-
tions, in endeavoring to pare down the provision

The Funding System 467

proposed in my report, and in resisting in subsequent
cases a compliance with the contracts as to those
creditors who have not accepted the terms held out
to them.

The former made a formal and passionate effort to
substitute their scheme for that which was contained
in the plan reported from the Treasury. It failed,
but it has laid the foundation of the great schism
which has since prevailed.

There never was a doubt that if the idea of dis-
crimination had obtained it would have resulted in a
fraud on alienees without benefit to their alienors.
A large proportion of those who supported the prin-
ciple of discrimination clearly manifested that they
meant to leave the difference in the public pocket.

The substance of the argument for a discrimina-
tion was this: [The rest is wanting.]

DEFENCE OF THE FUNDING SYSTEM

II

THE ASSUMPTION OF THE STATE DEBTS

The operation of these circumstances generated a
variety of different sects holding different opinions.
The parties in and out of Congress on the subject of
a provision for the public debt ' may be thrown into

^ In speaking of the public debt hereafter, to avoid circumlocution I
shall denominate the original debt of the United States the general
debt, and the separate debts of the respective States the particular
debts. As often as these terms occur they are to be understood in this
sense.

468 Alexander Hamilton

five classes: I. Those who were for providing for the
general debt, exclusively of the particular debts, on
the basis of the subsisting contracts. II. Those who
were for providing separately for the general debt on
the principle of a discrimination between original
holders and alienees. III. Those who were for pro-
viding separately for the general debt without that
discrimination at arbitrary rates of interest inferior
to the stipulated rates. IV. Those who were for pro-
viding for the general debt on the basis of the sub-
sisting contracts, and for assuming the particular
debts upon an equal provision. V. Those who were
for providing for the general debt at arbitrary rates
of interest inferior to the stipulated rates, and for
assuming the State debts upon an equal provision.

The classes which embraced the greatest number
of real partisans were the second and fifth. The
second was subdivided, apparently at least, into
those who advocated the taking the rate of interest
stipulated in the contract as the standard of pro-
vision, giving to the original holders what was with-
held from the alienees and those who were for saving
to the public what was withheld from the alienees.
The last, though not in appearance, was in fact the
most numerous. Indeed it may justly be doubted
whether any of those who professed to advocate
compensation to the original holders were ever sin-
cere in the proposition. But neither of the classes in
either house of Congress was itself a majority for the
general debt.

Those who favored a provision at lower than the
stipulated rates of interest were influenced respect-

The Funding System 469

ively by different motives : some by a doubt of the
ability of the government to make a full provision,
especially with the assumption of the particular
debts ; others by an opinion that from the constitu-
tion of the debt and what they called the alloy in it
a rate of interest lower than that stipulated was most
consistent with justice to the public; others from
a spirit of mean and fraudulent parsimony which
aimed at savings to the public per fas et nefas. These
last were not distinguishable in their principle of
action from those who advocated one species of dis-
crimination. Collateral circumstances respecting the
course of alienations locally and otherwise gave a
d fferent direction to their conduct.

It is easy to perceive that such a heterogeneous
mass of opinions, not merely speculative, but actu-
ated by different interests and passions, could not
fail to produce much embarrassment to the person
who was to devise the plan of a provision for the
public debt, if he had been provident enough to
sound the ground and probe the state of opinions.

It was proper for him to endeavor to unite two
ingredients in his plan: intrinsic goodness and a
reasonable probability of success.

It may be thought that the first was his only con-
cern, that he ought to have devised such a plan as
appeared to him absolutely the best, leaving its
adoption or rejection to the chance of events and to
the responsibility of those whose province it was to
decide.

But would not this have been to refine too much ?
If a plan had been offered too remote from the pre-

470 Alexander Hamilton

vailing opinions, incapable of conciliating a suffi-
cient number to constitute a majority, what would
have been the consequences? The minister would
have been defeated on his first experiment.

Before he had established any reputation for a
knowledge of the business of his department, he
might be sure that the blame of his ill-success would
have fallen on his want of skill, not upon the ig-
norance or perverseness of those who had rejected
his plan.

Placed in a background, he would have lost con-
fidence and influence. A retreat, or the disgrace of
remaining in office without weight or credit or an
adequate prospect of being useful, would have been
his alternative. The public interest might have been
still more injured. The public deliberations, left
without any rallying point, would have been the
more apt to be distracted between jarring, incoher-
ent, and indigested projects, and either to conclude
nothing or to conclude on something manifestly con-
trary to the public interests. That this is a natural
inference is proved by the diversity and still more by
the crudity of the opinions which have been enumer-
ated, and by the zeal with which considerable men
afterwards and since have maintained opinions which
would disgrace pupils not yet out of the alphabet of
political science.

Had a single session passed, after the subject had
been once seriously entered upon, without some ade-
quate provision for the debt, the most injurious con-
sequences were to have been expected.

With but a slight dawning of previous confidence,

The Funding System 471

such a delay arising from the conflict of opinions,
after a public display of the very unsound and hereti-
cal notions which were entertained by too many,
would have excited something very like despair in
the creditors, and would have thrown complete dis-
credit on the debt. The value in the market would
have sunk to almost nothing, to the great prejudice
of those who had lately, through confidence in the
new government, purchased at high prices. The
fluctuation would have increased the dissatisfaction
with the thing itself, and by its influence upon opin-
ion would have multiplied twofold the obstacles to
a future provision on proper principles. The con-
tagion of the opposite opinions maintained in the
legislature would have spread through the commun-
ity, fixing, increasing, and embittering the differ-
ences of opinion there, which, by reaction, would
have strengthened and confirmed the oppositions in
the legislature. No mortal could foresee the result.
A total failure to provide for the debt was possible.
A provision for it on terms destructive of principle,
replete with injustice to the creditors, was the least
ill result to have been apprehended.

Those who from a horrible sentiment of injustice
or the mania of false opinions regard the public debt
with detestation as a nuisance and a curse, and
every creditor as a culprit;^ those who would have
delighted in the disgrace of a government they had
resisted and villified, might have looked forward
with malignant pleasure to this wreck of the public
debt. But every virtuous enlightened man would
foresee, in the complicated mischief of ruined credit,

472 Alexander Hamilton

the prostration abroad and at home of the character
of the new government, its possible subversion, and
with it a severe blow to the general security of
property.

In hinting at the possible subversion of the gov-
ernment, it may be proper to explain the foundation
of this idea. The public creditors, who consisted of
various descriptions of men, a large proportion of
them very meritorious and very influential, had had
a considerable agency in promoting the adoption of
the new Constitution, for this peculiar reason, among
the many weighty reasons which were common to
them as citizens and proprietors, that it exhibited
the prospect of a government able to do justice
to their claims. Their disappointment and disgust,
quickened by the sensibility of private interest, could
not but have been extreme.

There was another class of men, and a very
weighty one, who had had great share in the estab-
lishment of the Constitution, who, though not per-
sonally interested in the debt, considered the maxims
of public credit as of the essence of good government,
as intimately connected by the analogy and sym-
pathy of principles with the security of property in
general, and as forming an inseparable portion of the
great system of political order. These men, from
sentiment, would have regarded their labors in sup-
porting the Constitution as in a great measure lost;
they would have seen the disappointments of their
hopes in the unwillingness of the government to do
what they esteemed justice, and to pursue what they
called an honorable policy; and they would have

The Funding System 473

regarded this failure as an augury of the continuance
of the fatal system which had for some time pro-
strated the national honor, interest, and happiness.
The disaffection of a part of these classes of men
might have carried a considerable reinforcement to
the enemies of the government. The lukewarmness
of the residue would have left them a clearer stage
to direct their assaults against it. The real failure
to do right, which often sinks the governments as
well as individuals into merited contempt, alienating
many of its ablest friends, while it would diminish
its support, would, at the same time, increase in a
tenfold ratio the mass of unfavorable opinion towards
it. And from the combination of these causes it would
have been likely to have degenerated into a despic-
able impotence, and after a lingering atrophy to have
perished.

In pursuing too far the idea of absolute perfection
in the plan to be proposed, unaccommodated to cir-
cumstances, the chance of an absolutely bad issue
was infinitely enhanced, and of the evils connected
with it.

Was this the course either of patriotism or true
personal policy? It has been remarked that in the
rejection of the plan which was proposed it was to be
apprehended that public opinion would charge the
fault upon the plan, not upon the rejecters of it.
But it may be said that time and the experience of
ill effects would have done justice and placed the
blame at the proper door. Let it be so. Would it
not have been blamably selfish to have sought to
secure reputation at the hazard of so great evils to

474 Alexander Hamilton

the community ? Was it not more fit by accommoda-
tion to circumstances within due limits to pursue
a better chance of public good at the risk of an im-
putation that complete theoretic perfection had not
been adhered to ?

Would time have pronounced a favorable sen-
tence upon a different course? Would it not have
said that goodness is often not an absolute but a
relative term, and that it was culpable refinement to
have sacrificed the prospect of accomplishing what
was substantially good to the impracticable attain-
ment of what was deemed theoretically perfect?

I grant that the idea of accommodation was not
to be carried so far as to sacrifice to it any essential
principle. This is never justifiable. But with the
restriction of not sacrificing principle, was it not
right and advisable so to shape the course as to
secure the best prospect of effecting the greatest
possible good?

To me this appeared the path of policy and duty,
and I acted under the influence of that sentiment.

Thus guided, I resolved to give the following
features to my plan :

First. To embrace in the provision, upon equal
terms, the particular debts of the individual States
as well as the general debt of the United States.

Secondly. To fund the whole by pledging for the
payment of the interest certain specified revenues
adequate to the object, to continue pledged until the
redemption or reimbursement of the principal of the
debt.

Thirdly. To provide, in the first instance, for the

J

The Funding System 475

foreign part of the general debt in exact conformity
with the contracts concerning it. To endeavor to
effect a new, more manageable, and more convenient
modification of the domestic part of the general debt,
with consent of the creditors, upon the ground of
certain equivalents to be offered to them.

Fourthly. To take as the basis of the provision
for the domestic part of the general debt the con-
tracts with the creditors as they stood at the tim.e
of the adoption of the new Constitution, according
to the unrevoked acts and resolutions of the former
government, except as to such alterations as they
might on legal principles be pronounced to have
undergone by voluntary acts and acquiescences of
the creditors themselves ; bottoming the provision on
this principle, that those contracts were to be ful-
filled as far and as fast as was practicable, and were
not to be departed from without the free consent of
the creditors.

Fifthly. To provide for the arrears of interest
which had accumulated, upon the same terms with
the principal, constituting them a new capital.

Sixthly. To endeavor to carry these ideas into
effect by opening two loans on the terms proposed,
one for the domestic part of the general debt, the
sums subscribed thereto to be paid in the principal
and arrears of interest of the .old debt ; another for
the particular debts of the respective States, the
sums subscribed thereto to be paid in the principal
and arrears of interest of those debts.

Seventhly. To endeavor to establish it as a rule
of administration, that the creation of debt should

476 Alexander Hamilton

always be accompanied with a provision for its ex- \
tinguishment ; and to apply the rule as far as it
could be applicable to a new provision for an old
debt by incorporating with it a fund for sinking the
debt.

Eighthly. As an incident to the whole, to provide
for the final settlement of accounts between the
United and individual States, charging the latter
with the sums assumed for them by the subscriptions
on State debts, which should be made to the pro-
posed loan.

Let us now review, and under each head, the
reasonings which led to this plan and the means and
modes of execution :

I. As to the uniting in the provision upon equal
terms the particular debts of the several States with
the general debt of the United States.

It appeared to me that this measure would be
conducive to the greatest degree of justice, and was
essential to policy.

I use a qualified and comparative mode of expres-
sion in the first case, because from the past course ^
and then existing state of things perfect justice was ^
unattainable. The object consequently was to pur-
sue such a plan as would procure the greatest prac-
ticable quantum of justice.

The true rule for conducting the expenses of the
Revolution, which established independence, seems
to have been this: That, as the benefits to be de- I
rived from it would be individually equal to the
citizens of every State, so the burthens ought also to
be individually equal among the citizens of all the

The Funding System 477

States according to individual property and ability.
That for this purpose all the expenses of the war
ought to have been defrayed out of a common treas-
ury, supplied by contributions of all the individuals
of the United States, levied under the common au-
thority, according to equal rules, by loans either
direct by borrowing or indirect and implied by emis-
sions of paper money, operated upon the joint credit
of the Union, and by bringing into common stock
all auxiliary or adventitious resources, as waste
land, confiscated property, etc.

This was the true justice of the case and the true
national ground — a ground which perhaps might
well have been taken by those full assemblies of
the Union, convened by the direct commission of
the people, with plenary power to take care of the
nation, but which was never but partially taken, and
was successfully abandoned in compliance with the
unnational demands of State claims — the aristocracy
of State pretensions.

But instead of this course, that which was pursued
was a compound of incoherent principles. A part of
the general expenditure was defrayed on the general
credit of the United States immediately by the emis-
sion of bills of credit and by loans of individuals,
mediately by the contracts of various officers and
agents who obtained services^ and supplies on the
credit of the Union and gave certain paper evidences
of them. Another part was defrayed in consequence
of requisitions upon the States of men, money, pro-
visions, and other articles of supply, according to
certain estimated or conjectural quotas to be raised

47^ Alexander Hamilton

and furnished by the States separately. A third
part was defrayed by the spontaneous exertions of
the States themselves for local defence, for enter-
prises independently undertaken to annoy ' the com-
mon enemy, divest him of acquisitions,^ or make
acquisitions ^ upon him. Each State enjoyed the
exclusive benefit of its extra resources, waste lands,
and confiscated property. Geographical lines thus
made a substantial difference in the condition of the
citizens of one common country, engaged in a com-
mon cause.

It was impossible that such a state of things shotild
not have led to very disproportionate exertions and
contributions — should not have produced and left
very unequal burthens on the citizens of different
States. According to the temporary energy of the
councils of each, according to their comparative de-
gree of zeal in the common cause, according to the
pressure of circumstances, the remoteness or prox-
imity of danger, according to the peculiar character
of the citizens of each State, according to a variety
of contingent impulses — were the exertions of the
several States, and of course their contributions to
the expenses of the general defence.

Very different also was the care and accuracy of
the different States in recording and preserving the
evidences of their contributions. Some States kept
an account of every thing; others only of those
things which they had furnished upon regular au-
thorizations of the Union; others kept very loose

' Frigates and Carolinas. " Penobscot expedition.

3 Indian expeditions.

The Funding System 479

and imperfect accounts of any thing; and others
lost by accidents of the war the records and vouchers
which they had taken.

Add to all this the circumstance of the valuable
aids which some States were able to derive more
than others from auxiliary resources, particularly of
waste land and confiscated property, and two obvi-
ous consequences will result:

First. That it was impossible that in the course
of the war there could have been any proportional
equality between the exertions, contributions, and
burthens of the citizens of the different States.

Secondly. That it was impossible by any after
adjustment to restore the equilibrium and produce
retrospective equality.

All then that could be rationally aimed at was to
pursue such a course as promised most certainly
the greatest degree of justice.

The option lay between three modes of proceed-
ing:

First. To refer the obtaining of ultimate justice to
a final settlement of accoimts between the United
and individual States upon the best and most equi-
table principles which were practicable, and to pro-
vide for the balances which would be established in
favor of certain States by that settlement.

Second. To exonerate all the States from debt by
the assumption of their still-existing debts, and to
abandon a settlement as impracticable on certain
and equitable principles.

Third. To exonerate the States from debt by the
assumption of their still-existing debts; to charge

480 Alexander Hamilton

each with the sums assimied upon its account, and
to attempt an ultimate equalization by the settle-
ment of accounts.

The first and second plans were those contrasted
by official propositions and deliberations, and will be
considered together by way of comparison with each
other: first, with regard to justice; and secondly,
with regard to policy.

The first plan, which was that vehemently insisted
upon by those who opposed the assumption of the
State debts, appeared to me liable to some conclusive
objections on the score of justice.

I. It would have left certain States greatly in-
debted, deprived of the most easy and productive
sources of revenue by the occupation of them in a
provision for the general debt, to struggle for an in-
definite and uncertain period with a heavier load
than they were able to bear, depending for relief on
the precarious issues of a final settlement of accounts
and a provision for the balances.

II. It was uncertain in the nature of the thing,
and so considered by all parties, not only when a
settlement could be effected, but whether any settle-
ment would ever be practicable. The peace took
place in 1783. In 1790 very little more than the
formal measures of settlement had been devised, and
scarcely any impression made on the business.

III. It was altogether a chapter of accidents
whether a settlement would bring the expected and
the just relief. From the circumstances which have
been mentioned, a settlement must have been of
necessity an artificial and arbitrary thing. It was

The Funding System 4S1

impossible for any to be made on truly equitable or
satisfactory principles.

The greatest portion of human intellect and justice
was unequal to it, because adequate data were want-
ing. Some States would have credits, when others,
from the manner of keeping their accounts, would
be without the corresponding credits for similar ob-
jects.' Some States, from the system of manage-
ment, would have much larger credits for a given
quantum of service and supply than others.^ Some
States, from the imperfect mode of keeping their
accounts, and from the loss of vouchers, would either
have too much or too little credit. Either stricter
rules of evidence must be pursued, which would ex-
clude too much, or looser rules must be admitted,
which would admit too much. These suggest suf-
ficient and yet only a part of the causes which
rendered a just settlement impracticable.

In such a posture of things consequently, it might
well have happened that an indebted State, well en-
titled to relief by a balance in its favor, might have
been disappointed by the issue of the settlement.

Not to assume the State debts therefore was to have
the greatly indebted States totter under a burthen
to which they were unequal, in the indefinite expec-
tation of a settlement, and to involve a possibility
that they might never obtain relief, either from
the total failure of a settlement on account of the

* Thus botinties for engaging men were in particular States regularly
brought into account and vouched; in others, ftimished at the expense
of classes, no accounts were ever kept.

2 Thus purchasers at exorbitant prices procured in some stations

what coercion at regulated moderate prices procured in others.
VOL. vni.— 31.

482 Alexander Hamilton

difficulties attending it, or from not receiving their
just dues by the embarrassment that unavoidably
rendered a settlement artificial and arbitrary.

The reference, therefore, to a settlement as the
sole rule of justice, without an assumption of the
State debts, was not likely to afford either such
prompt or such certain justice as might be looked for
from the immediate assumption of the State debts.

The objection to this reasoning was that it takes
it for granted that the greatly indebted States were
not so through want of good management or exer-
tion, and were entitled to eventual relief ; but the con-
trary of this presumption might have been the fact.

There were good grounds for the conclusion that
the States most indebted were so from meritorious
causes, from their exertion in the common cause,
and not from extravagance in the first instance, or
want of effort to extricate themselves in the second.

The States most involved in debt, in proportion to
their resources, were South Carolina and Georgia to
the south, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode
Island to the north.

South Carolina and Georgia, it is well known, next
to New York, had been the principal theatres of the
war. Though the metropolis of New York was dur-
ing almost the whole of the war in the hands of the
enemy, and there were very few parts of it which at
some period were not exposed to his ravages, yet it
never was so completely overrun or so entirely a
victim as were the States of South Carolina and
Georgia. It is known that they were temporarily
conquered.

The Funding System 483

Besides, as the principal military operations in the
southern quarter were late in the war, when the de-
clension of the paper money disabled Congress from
affording equal succor, and their remoteness from the
States of the greatest pecuniary resources prevented
them from deriving equal aid from their neighbors,
they were of course left to sustain on their own shoul-
ders a greater part of the weight of the war than
had been borne by other States while the seats of it.

Besides exhausting all the means of credit, they
were subjected a great part of the time to the mili-
tary coercion of our own army as well as the depre-
dations of the enemy. What in other cases had
been an extraordinary and momentary expedient was
there an ordinary resource — the principal means for
a considerable time of carrying on the war. They
were literally devoured by the war. The whole
movable property of the States was taken by the
enemy or thrown into the public lap. Besides this,
the State governments, from the same circumstance
of remoteness, were more ostensible in that quarter.
More of the effort was on their immediate account.
The consequence was that a less proportion of the
supplies drawn from the country were taken to the
immediate account of the United States by their
officers and agents and upon their acknowledgments
or certificates ; consequently a greater proportion of
the expense assumed the shape of State debt.

The consequence was that the particular debts of
South Carolina and Georgia, especially the former,
were, comparatively speaking, swelled to an enor-
mous amount.

484 Alexander Hamilton

To face them they had but slender resources. The
degree to which they had been exhausted and rav-
aged by the war left them in a situation to require
bounties rather than to struggle with heavy debts.
The inability of South Carolina and Georgia to pro-
vide for their debts was increased by the consider-
able debts which their individuals owed to foreigners.
The population of either of them was not great.
Georgia may be considered as in its infancy. She
claims a large tract of waste land, but besides the
counter claim of the United States it had not been
in her power, from the situation of her frontier with
regard to the Indians, to turn them to great account.
She had indeed paralyzed a great proportion of her
debt by means far from justifiable, but she was un-
able to provide even for the residue.

South Carolina ' had no auxiliary resource except
what she had derived from confiscated property,
which a spirit of liberality that does her honor on the
return of peace prevented her turning to much ac-
count, and which at best was a very inadequate
resotirce compared with her burthens. It was mani-
festly impossible for her to face efficaciously the
interest upon her debts, much more to make any
impression on the principal.

From this sketch and various circumstances of
general notoriety, scepticism itself cannot doubt that
South Carolina had indisputable claim of relief from
the United States. She had contracted her debt

' In attempts to provide for the interest, taxation had been carried in
South Carolina to a length not short of any State, except Massachusetts
and perhaps Connecticut.

The Funding System 485

most meritoriously, her sufferings had only been
equalled by her efforts, she was unable to struggle
unassisted with her debt, she was chargeable with no
deficiency of effort to face it since the peace, and she
was equitably entitled to relief from the United
States. But her situation with regard to the reg-
ularity of her accounts and the evidence for
authenticating her claims, rendered it peculiarly
problematical whether she would ever find relief in a
general settlement of accounts.

Rhode Island had also contracted her debt mer-
itoriously. A considerable part of her small territory
had been for a great part of the war in the possession
of the enemy. She kept, for her population, respect-
able forces in the field throughout the war, and had
uniformly manifested a useful and laudable zeal.
Her resources were slender. Taxes upon a popula-
tion of were all she could pretend to. She had

no waste land, and none or very little confiscated
property.

Her debt was considerable ; 't is evident that if
she was to provide for it, the means must come from
the United States. And there was every presump-
tion that she was entitled to this aid. It is true that
she had in a great measure encumbered herself by
means which will be an indelible stain in her annals.
But the individuals who were the victims had not
the less claim upon the justice of their country. The
assumption has promoted this justice, and has en-
abled and induced the State to come forward with
more equitable arrangements in their favor.

The pretensions of Massachusetts and Connecticut

486 Alexander Hamilton

with regard to their debt were of the most meritori-
ous complexion. As a general position each State
may justly claim the praise of a laudable spirit of
exertion in the defence of their common liberty,
but there were certainly marked differences in the
degrees. Abstracting the impulse of being the im- !
mediate seat of the war, Massachusetts and Connecti- ■
cut, especially Massachusetts, stood pre-eminent for -
steady, constant, and efficient exertions, immedi-
diately conducing to the great object of the war, not
to collateral acquisitions and partial advantages.
Massachusetts in particular might justly be de-
nominated the Atlas of the Union, uniformly zealous,
uniformly vigorous.

The records of the Treasury and War Departments
witness by their results the great exertions of these
States in men, money, and other supplies.

The situation in which I myself was placed during
the war gave me an opportunity of appreciating the
efforts of these different States in the results. The
impression on my mind was decisive as to the spirit
of what I have asserted. In how many critical
periods of the war were the forces of those States
the sinews and muscles of the war ? Let the records
before mentioned declare. Let the memoirs of those
who, charged with the chief direction of our military
affairs, had the best opportunities of observing,
pronounce.

No well-informed man then doubted the fact ; sub-
sequent examination, the evidence of official records,
confirm the truth.

While the efforts of these States during the war

The Funding System 487

are incontestably ascertained, they are chargeable
with no want of exertion since to exonerate them-
selves from debt.

Taxation in Connecticut embraced every object,
and was carried as far as it could be done without
absolutely oppressing individuals. Instead of a few
scattered examples of excise, every article of con-
sumption in Connecticut was excised.

In Massachusetts taxation was carried still fur-
ther, even to a degree too burdensome for the com-
fortable condition of the citizens. This may have
been partly owing to that unskilfulness which was
the common attribute of the State administration of
finance, but it was still more owing to the real weight
of the taxes. The insurrection was in a great de-
gree the offspring of this pressure.

These States had no material auxiliary resources.
The moderation of fortunes had left them without
much aid from confiscated property. They had
claims to waste land, but that of Connecticut has
issued in a very unimportant acquisition. That of
Massachusetts has fared better, but her acquisition
would have done little towards the extinguishment
of her debt. Connecticut, without any seaport of
consequence, not only could not derive resources
from this circumstance, but had been tributary to
her more fortunate neighbors.

There was, therefore, a priori satisfactory evi-
dence that these overburdened States had a just
claim of relief from the United States; and, if we
may take the settlement of accounts as evidence,
the anticipation has been fully justified by the event.

488 Alexander Hamilton

For not only the sums assumed for them have been
covered, but they have had considerable balances
reported in their favor.

It will strengthen the argument for the superior
justice of the assumption plan, to remark that the
debts of the States represented the great mass of
State effort during the war.

Not much had been done by taxation. Credit
had been the principal engine.

Another objection on the score of justice, which
was strenuously urged against the plan of assuming,
was that certain States, by vigorous efforts, had
considerably reduced these particular debts, while
others had made little impression on them. It was,
therefore, unequal to assume the debts in the unequal
States.

It has been already shown that this difference, as
far as it may be founded in fact, was owing to ad-
ventitious advantages, and, therefore, in point of
substantial justice, the States which had absorbed
less of their debt had not the less equitable title to
relief. I recur to the example of New York. This
State, by large possessions of waste land, by a great
deal of confiscated property, by not providing for
payment of interest on the debt, whereby its value
was kept low to the great injury of the creditors,
was able to absorb a considerable proportion of her
debt. Connecticut, without these advantages was
able to do much less, though her citizens were bur-
dened with a much more considerable effort in con-
tribution. Was it, therefore, inequitable as between
these States, that Connecticut should find relief in

The Funding System 489

an assumption ? Surely it was not. Again, if a set-
tlement of account, which was a part of the plan of
assumption, was to be relied upon, any inequality
created by the assumption would be rectified by the
settlement.

Either an equitable settlement of accounts would
take place, or it would not. If it did not, the greatly
indebted States without an assumption would cer-
tainly fail of justice and due relief; if it did, with an
assumption, the settlement would remedy any in-
equality which might have been occasioned by it,
and restore equilibrium. An assumption and a set-
tlement on right principles would ensure justice —
no assumption and no settlement would ensure in-
justice. It was to be feared a settlement might not
take effect. It was precarious and contingent. An
assumption, of course, gave the greatest certainty of
justice by an assumption or equalization of the con-
dition of individuals. Pursuing such impressions,
this must be deemed of more consequence than any
thing which regarded the States in their corporate or
collective capacities.

The most simple and satisfactory notion of justice
was to secure that individuals of the same nation,
who had contended in the same cause for the same
object — their common liberty, — should, at the end of
the contest, find themselves on an equal footing as
to burdens arising from the contest.

Nothing could be more revolting than that the
citizens of one State should live at ease free from
taxes and the citizens of a neighboring State be over-
burthened with taxes growing out of a war which

490 Alexander Hamilton

had given equal political advantages to the citizens
of both States.

This condition of things previous to the assump-
tion was remarkably exemplified between New York
and Massachusetts, between New York and Connec-
ticut. The citizens of New York scarcely paid any
taxes, those of Massachusetts and Connecticut were
heavily burthened. A like comparison though dif-
ferent in degree might be extended to other States.

The relative condition of States depended on many
artificial circumstances. These circumstances might
forever have stood in the way of that equality of
condition among citizens which was infinitely the
most important consideration and the most desir-
able attainment. The measure which went most
directly and certainly to this object was to be pre-
ferred. The assumption was such a measure. By
taking all the debts upon the Union, to be paid out
of the common treasury, defrayed by common con-
tribution according to general rules, the citizens of
every State were on an equal footing. State pro-
visions produced inequality from the inequality of
their debts, from the inequality of adventitious re-
sources, from the inequality of permanent abilities.
Justice among individuals was better promoted in
another way.

The New Government had given to the United
States the exclusive possession of the branch of re-
venue which for a considerable time to come in this
country is likely to be most productive. Had the
government of the United States confined itself to a
provision for the general debt, the proprietors of the

The Funding System 491

particular debts would in several States have been
not only in a very unequal, but in a very bad situa-
tion. Thus forms would have superseded substance.
Men who had contributed their services and property
to the support of the common cause at the instance
of a State Government, would have fared worse than
those who have done the same thing at the instance
of the General Government. Did this comport with
any rational and true scheme of justice which pre-
ferred natural to artificial consideration ?

It would have been the more hard, unjust, and
tmnatural, because a great proportion of the State
debts, had been originally contracted immediately
with the United States and afterwards transferred
to the particular State.

A still greater part was contracted in virtue of the
requisitions of Congress upon the States, in which
cases it was more reasonable to consider them as
agents than as principals.

To resume. — The superiority of the plan of a joint
provision over that of a separate provision in the
view of justice consists in this :

That supposing a final equitable settlement of
accounts between the States, either plan wotild pro-
duce eventual justice.

But the plan of assumption was most likely to ex-
pedite justice by the imraediate relief which it gave
to the overburthened States.

That setting aside the supposition of a final equi-
table settlement of accoimts, the plan of assumption
contained the best chance of success, by giving relief
to the overburthened States, which would otherwise

492 Alexander Hamilton

have remained without it, though from known cir-
cumstances there was a moral certainty of their being
entitled to it.

That the asstmiption in every event better con-
sulted justice by conducing to equalize in the first
instance the burthen of citizens of the same country
arising from a contest in a common cause, and by
securing a simultaneous and equal provision for
creditors who otherwise would have fared imequally.

These are the principal considerations that relate
to justice. In the view of policy the argimient is
still more conclusive in favor of assumption.

CONTINUED IN VOL. IX.

University of
Connecticut

Libraries

GESTECllEBT^Co,


===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 9) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander09hami/worksofalexander09hami_djvu.txt

n^^

H^*^-

^%^^^%^<\

BOOK 973.4.H18 V.9 c. 1
HAMILTON # WORKS

T=nr^^^»^^5^?^

£
Conetitutional leMtion 3 02

•HZ

The Works of ^'^

Alexander Hamilton

Edited by-
Henry Cabot Lodge

" The sacred rights of mankind are not to be rummaged for among old parchments or
musty records. They are written, as with a sunbeam, in the whole volume of human nature,
by the hand of the Divinity itself, and can never be erased or obscured by mortal power."

[Hamilton— 7';^^ Farmer Refuted^ 1775, ^t. 18.]

" We are laboring hard to establish in this country principles more and more national^
and free from all foreign ingredients, so that we may be neither ' Greeks nor Trojans,' but
truly Americans."— [Hamilton to King, 1796, Rx. 59.]

Volume IX

G. P. Putnam's Sons
New York and London
Cbe 1ftntcF?erbockec iprees

Ube Knicfsetboctter f>rees» mew ISotb

CONTENTS

^

^
^

^
^

^

J

Miscellaneous Papers — Continued :

Defence of the Funding System — Con-
tinued: .......

Private Correspondence:

To Edward Stevens

To TiLEMAN CrUGER

To THE Provincial Congress of New York

To THE Honorable Convention of New York,

To THE Provincial Congress . . . .

To Gouverneur Morris, Robert Livingston,
and William Allison, Esqs. .

To Gouverneur Morris, etc.

To THE Committee of the New York Conven-
tion

To Gouverneur Morris, etc. .

To the Committee of the New York Conven-
tion

To William Livingston .

To William Duer .

To Gouverneur Morris .

To Robert R. Livingston

To Dr. Hugh Knox .

To Gouverneur Morris .

To Robert R. Livingston

To Gouverneur Morris .

To THE Honorable John Hancock,
OF Congress

To Washington

President
38
42
45
50
56
63
77
86
99

lOI
d

IV

Contents

Private Correspondence — Continued:
To General Gates .
To Washington
To General Gates .
To Waspiington
To General Putnam
To Governor George Clinton
To William Duer, M.C. .
To Lafayette ....
To Washington
To Elias Boudinot .
To Lord Stirling (?)
To Washington
To Elias Boudinot .
To . . . .

To Baron Steuben ......

Narrative of an Affair of Honor between

General Lee and Colonel Laurens
To the Honorable John Jay, President of

Congress .
To Miss Livingston.
To Baron Steuben .
To Otho H. Williams
To Major Lee or, in his Absence, Captain

McLane
To Col. David Henley
To Col. John Brooks
To Dr. William Gordon
To James Duane
To Baron Steuben .
To James Duane
To Col. John Brooks
To John Laurens .
To James Duane
Du PoRTAiL and Hamilton to Washington
To JoFiN Laurens .....
To Doctor William Gordon .
III
119
122
137
140
144
152
156
163
166
167
169
170
172
176
184

Contents

Private Correspondence — Continued
To Washington
To Baron Steuben .
To James Duane
To General Greene
To Baron Steuben .
To Washington
To the Chevalier De Ternay
To Baron Steuben .
To General Anthony Wayne
To Baron Steuben .
To Miss Schuyler .
To James Duane
To Washington
To General Greene
To Miss Schuyler .
To John Laurens .
To Isaac Sears
To James Duane
To Washington

To

To Philip Schuyler
To General Greene
To Washington
To Mrs. Hamilton .
To Washington
To Mrs. Hamilton .
To Lafayette
To Mrs. Hamilton .
To Washington
To Richard K. Meade
To Robert Morris .
To General Knox .
To Robert Morris .
To Comfort Sands .
To Robert Morris .
To Governor Clinton

V

PAGE
191
194
199
202
205
206
224
226
243
244
250
253
256
261
263

VI

Contents

Private Correspondence — Continued
To Robert Morris
To Governor Clinton
To the County Treasurers
To Robert Morris .
To John Laurens .
To Governor Clinton
To Robert Morris .
To Colonel Richard K. Meade
To Robert Morris .
To THE County Treasurers
To Robert Morris ,
To Timothy Pickering .
To Robert Morris .
To De Noailles
To General Greene
To Robert Morris .
To Lafayette

To THE Governor of Rhode Island
To Governor Clinton
To Washington
To Governor Clinton
To Washington ».
To Governor Clinton
To John Dickinson .
To James Madison, Jr. .
To Mrs. Hamilton .
To John Jay
To Governor Clinton
To Washington
To Governor Clinton
To THE Honorable Thomas Mifflin, Presi

dent of Congress
To John Barker Church
To Thomas Fitzsimmons .
To Gouverneur Morris .
To De Chastellux .

Contents

Vll

Private Correspondence — Continued:

To HIS Brother, James Hamilton

To Israel Wilkes .

To Washington

To Nathaniel Hazard .

To Messrs. Semphill & Co.

To John Thomas, Esq., Sheriff

CHESTER ....

To Washington

To ....

To Major Peirce

To AULDJO ....

To RuFus King

To Colonel Jeremiah Wadsworth

To RuFus King

To Washington

To James Madison, Jr. .

To Gouverneur Morris .

To James Madison, Jr. .

To John Sullivan, Esq., President of the

State of New Hampshire
To James Madison, Jr. .
To Nathaniel Chipman .
To James Madison, Jr. .
To Washington
To Samuel Broome .
To Governor Wm. Livingston
To Washington
To Theodore Sedgwick
To Nathaniel Chipman .
To Theodore Sedgwick .
To Washington
To James Madison, Jr. .
To Theodore Sedgwick .
To Rufus King
To Oliver Wolcott
To Lafayette

OF West
406
413
416
419
421
422
423
428
432
438
441
442
446
451
453
457
459

VUl

Contents

Private Correspondence — Continued
To James Madison, Jr .
To Washington
To Timothy Pickering
To Col. R. H. Harrison
To Henry Lee
To William Duer .
To ^DANus Burke .
To Timothy Pickering
To Winn .
To Washington
To John Jay
To Washington
To William Seton .

To

To Washington

To Benjamin Goodhue

To Mrs. Martha Walker

To RuFus King

To Timothy Pickering

To William Seton .

To William Duer .

To William Seton .

To THE President, Directors, etc., o

Bank of New York
To William Seton
To A Friend
To Washington
To General Knox
To William Seton
To Philip Hamilton
To Nicholas Gouverneur
To Gulian Verplanck and Others
To William Seton
To William Duer
To William Seton

THE

Contents ix

PAGE

Private Correspondence — Continued:

To THE Directors and Company of the Bank

OF New York 508

To William Duer 508

To William Seton 509

To William Duer 510

To William Seton 512

To Colonel Edward Carrington . . .513

To General Otho H. Williams . . . 536

To Gouverneur Morris ..... 537

To Colonel Heth and Others . . . 539

To William Seton 540

To RuFus King 540

To Elias Boudinot 541

To Washington 542

MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS {Continued)

MISCELLANEOUS PAPERS

DEFENCE OF THE FUNDING SYSTEM

II

THE ASSUMPTION OF THE STATE DEBTS
{Continued from Vol. VIII.)

THE theory of our constitutions with respect to
taxation is perhaps a new example in the
world — that is to say, a conctirrent and co-ordinate
authority in one general head and in thirteen (now
fifteen) distinct members of a confederacy united
under that head to impose in detail upon individuals
and upon all taxable objects.

Yet experience had demonstrated that a power in
the general head to tax the States only in their
collective capacities — that is, by the system of requi-
sitions, was a system of imbecility and injustice : im-
becility, because it did not produce to the common
treasury the requisite supplies; injustice, because the
separate efforts of the States under such a system,
from the nature of things, would ever be imequal, and
consequently their contributions disproportionate.

Hence, all those who agreed in the necessity of a
union of the States imder a common head, felt and

4 Alexander Hamilton

acknowledged that a change in the plan was an essen-
tial feature in a new arrangement of the constitution
of General Government.

But though agreed in this general principle, they
were not equally agreed in the application of the
rule. Some were for a general and paramoimt power
of taxation in the National Government, and either
a subordinate or a limited (by being confined to par-
ticular objects) power of taxation in the State Gov-
ernments. Some were for a division of the power of
taxation, giving certain branches of it exclusively to
the General Government, and other branches of it
exclusively to the State Government. Others were
for a general concurrent power of taxation in the
Federal and State Governments.

The two first opinions equally presupposed a great
difficulty of execution and danger of collision in a
concurrent power of taxation, and sought to avoid it
by different means. The last seems to have consid-
ered that difficulty and danger as less formidable
than the embarrassments which belonged to either
of the other schemes. And this opinion was adopted
by the Convention, except with regard to the duties
of imports and tonnage, which for cogent and obvi-
ous reasons was incompatible and was exclusively
vested in the Federal head.

This course was, relatively to the existing state of
things, the wisest. The subordination of the State
power of taxation to that of the General Government,
or the confining it to particular objects, would prob-
ably have been an insuperable obstacle to the adop-
tion of the Constitution. The division of the power

The Funding System 5

between the Union and the States could not have
been regulated upon any plan which would not either
have left the General Government more restricted
than was compatible with a due provision for the
exigencies of the Union, or would have so confined
the State Government as would have been equally
an impediment to the success of the Constitution.
Besides that, a truly eligible division, which con-
sulted all the cases possible by the general principles
of the Constitution, was intrinsically very difficult
if not impracticable.

But though it is admitted that the course pursued
by the Convention was the most expedient, yet it is
not the less true that the plan involved inherent and
great difficulties.

It may not unaptly be styled the Gordian-knot of
our political situation.

To me there appeared but one way of untying or
severing it, which was in practice to leave the States
under as little necessity as possible of exercising the
power of taxation. The narrowness of the limits of
its exercise on one side left the field more free and
unembarrassed to the other, and avoided essentially
the interference and collisions to be apprehended
from inherent difficulties on the plan of concurrent
jurisdiction.

Thus, to give a clear field to the Government of
the United States was so manifestly founded in good
policy that the time must come when a man of sense
would blush to dispute it.

It was essential to give effect to the objects of the
Union. As to the past, the General Government was

6 Alexander Hamilton

to provide for the debts which the war that accom-
plished our Revolution had left upon us. These were
to the debts which the same events had left upon the
States individually as five to two nearly.

For the future, the General Government, besides
providing for the expenses of its civil administration,
which from obvious causes would unavoidably ex-
ceed those of the State Governments, and for a vari-
ety of other objects tedious to enumerate or define,
was charged with the care of the common defence.

Reason and experience teach that the great mass
of expense in every country proceeds from war. Our
experience has already belied the reveries of those
dreamers or impostors who were wont to weaken the
argument arising from this source by promising to
this country a perpetual exemption from war.

In the few years of our existence our frontiers have
exhibited a state of desolating and expensive hos-
tility. How narrowly have we thus far escaped a
war with a great European Power? Who can say
how long we shall be before we may be compelled to
defend our independence against some one of the
great competitors still engaged on that theatre?

The violent passions which have agitated the
apostles of perpetual peace, and which were so near
forcing our political ship upon the rock of war, which
at this moment still impel her to the same ruinous
point, are the mirrors in which they may read the
refutation of their silly predictions, and the cer-
tainty that our nation is enough exposed to the
chances of war to render a clear stage for command-
ing all our resources of taxation indispensable. Be-

The Funding System 7

sides actual war and danger of still greater, we have
already experienced a domestic insurrection in which
more than a million has been expended.

Without an assumption of the State debts which
produced this effect, the first war with an European
Power would have convinced us of the ineligibleness
of our situation, of the weakness and embarrassment
incident to fifteen or perhaps to fifty different sys-
tems of finance.

The foundation of the observation is obvious.
Different States would have and actually have dif-
ferent predilections and prejudices on the subject of
taxation. Some incline more to excises, or taxes on
articles of consumption, than to taxes on real estate.
Others favor the latter more than the former. In
some stamp duties are not ill thought of; in others
they are odious.

Suppose, what was the natural and probable effect
of such a diversity of opinion, the States being left to
make separate provisions for their particular debts
had bottomed their provisions on different objects of
revenue; that some had occupied the most produc-
tive objects of excise; that others had had recourse
to taxes on real estate; that some had preferred to
either duties on stamps; that a fourth class had
sought the needed revenue from duties on the aliena-
tion of certain kinds of property; and that a fifth
class had derived its provision from general assess-
ments of real and personal estate. These, with
duties on imports and exports, from which they are
excluded, and poll taxes, which are the scourge of any
society, comprise all the important branches of re-

8 Alexander Hamilton

venue. Suppose, as would have been the case if fair
provisions had been made, that in each case the taxes
had been carried as far as could be done without
oppression or overburthening the object or the per-
son, what would have been the situation of the Gen-
eral GkDvemment in case the breaking out of a war
had called for great resources ?

In all but direct taxes the Constitution enjoins
uniformity. Reason and principle enjoin it with re-
spect to all taxes laid by the same government upon
the same society. What was to be done? Revenue
could not be had from excises, because the principal
objects were already burthened by certain States
as much as they could conveniently bear and to lay
additional burthens would be equally ruinous to in-
dustry and to persons. Indeed excessive accumula-
tion prevents collection and defeats the end.

Similar reasons would be obstacles as to all the
other great branches of revenue, because different
States had previously occupied them all to the
convenient extent. The hand of the General Gov-
ernment would thus have been arrested, and the
greatest part of the resources of the community
would have been tied up, incapable of being brought
into action for the common exigencies of the nation.

Will it be said that the General Government might
still have laid the taxes on such objects as appeared
to it proper, leaving the States to change their ground
and adopt others? Who would wish to have seen
the necessity of so violent an expedient, or who could
calculate the consequences of it?

Is it certain that a State would have thus com-

The Funding System 9

plaisantly changed a ground to which it had been
led by the coincidence of its predilections and pre-
judices ? If it had mortgaged the particular revenues
for its debt, is it certain that it would have been able
to change its ground justly and satisfactorily? Is it
not too probable that perseverance, complaint, con-
troversy, between the general head and the members,
dissatisfaction in the community, and weakness of
measures would have been the effects of such an
experiment?

No one can doubt the dangers and inconveniences
of such a situation. No sound mind but must think
it a great recommendation of a measure that it
tended to obviate so perilous and so inauspicious a
situation.

An inference has been drawn that without the as-
sumption and with separate provisions for the State
debts, the chief part of the resources of the com-
munity would have been tied up, incapable of be-
ing brought into action for the public necessities.
Let this be still more particularly illustrated.

Suppose Massachusetts had provided for her par-
ticular debt by excises. It is certain from the mag-
nitude of her debt that to make the provision ade-
quate in this way would have required excises to be
extended as far as was practicable. Suppose Con-
necticut to have provided for her debt by stamp
duties and duties on alienations of property, which
carried to any extent not oppressive would not have
been more than an adequate fund for her debt. Sup-
pose South Carolina to have rested her debt on taxes
and assessments upon real and personal estate, which

lo Alexander Hamilton

in any admissible extent would probably have been
inadequate to her debt.'

It would follow that the United States could not
touch either of those great branches of taxation,
because they had been preoccupied in those three
States as far as the subject in each case would per-
mit, and therefore additions would be insupportable
to the citizens and incapable of collection, and be-
cause Congress could not, by the Constitution or upon
principle, touch those branches in some States with-
out extending it to all.

The only palliative for this paralytic state of things
was requisitions upon the States to be raised in their
own way. No man conversant with the effects of
this system during the war of our Revolution, who
saw its impotent and unequal operation, who is a
friend to vigor in the government of his country, who
has an enlightened desire to see it in a state to
vindicate efficaciously its honor and interests, who

I It may be said that the occupation of the several branches of reve-
nue in the way which has been stated is merely suppositious! It might
not have happened — a more partial and at the same time a more
various distribution might have left a freer stage to the United States.
The possibility of what has been stated in theory is a conclusive
argument for preferring a plan which avoided it. But more than this,
it is probable, and from circumstances was in a great degree unavoid-
able that what has been supposed should have been substantially
realized in practice. The modes of taxation in particular States and
the magnitude of their debts would have naturally led to it. And as
far as the States, in their provisions, had recourse to different objects,
though not to the full extent, so far the evil would have existed and
would have been an obstacle to a due provision for the public necessi-
ties. But besides this, it would be impossible to the State Govern-
ments to command efficaciously one principal source of taxation, that
of excises, because of the competition of industry where they were not
laid.

The Funding System ii

wishes the reign of equal justice by equal effort
among the States and their citizens — no such man but
would deplore that this system should ever be again
the principal reliance of the National Government.

But it might be expected to be even more im-
potent under the present government than under the
Confederation. There the system of requisitions had
a constitutional basis. Requisitions were the mode
indicated by the Articles of Confederation for sup-
plying the general treasury, and it was natural
that their obligations should be so much the more
respected.

But under the present government there is no au-
thority for obtaining revenue in that way. A con-
trary supposition has crept in from that provision of
the Constitution which regulates that ''direct taxes
shall be apportioned among the States according to
their respective numbers." But the true meaning
of this is, that when Congress are about to raise
revenue by their own authority upon those objects
which are contemplated as the objects of direct tax-
ation, the proportional measure of the quantum of the
tax to be levied in each State must be on the numbers
of such State. It is a mere rule for the exercise of
the general power of taxation vested in Congress
as to the article of direct taxes.

It does not authorize the calling upon a State to
raise such a quota of money by its own authority and
in its own way. This would be to change taxation
by Congress into taxation by the States — direct taxes
into taxes of any other description which it might
appear advisable to a State to substitute.

12 Alexander Hamilton

Requisitions are, then, unknown to our present
Constitution. They would amount, therefore, to
mere recommendations, a compliance with which
would be purely gratuitous and voltmtary in theory
as well as in fact. What could be expected from such
a system?

This position alone condemns any plan which
would or might have left the United States depend-
ent on the resource of requisitions for carrying on a
war. It is against every principle of sound reason-
ing or constitutional or practical policy, to leave the
administration in a condition to depend not on legal
and obligatory provisions, but on such as are gratu-
itous and voltmtary. This is to arbitrate, not to
govern.

Perhaps the force of these reasonings may be
thought to be diminished by the reflection that the
debts of the States were temporary impediments
which might be expected to cease within a certain
period.

But who would say when they would cease? It
was certain that if fairly provided for the evil would
have lasted a very considerable time, and it was un-
certain how soon a war might render it embarrassing
to the finances and dangerous to the safety of the
country.

The certain length of duration and the greatness
of the probable mischief were sufficient reasons for
removing the cause when it could so well be done.

It will be argued hereafter that the duration of
all the debts, both general and particular, suppos-
ing a fair provision, was likely to have been much

The Funding System 13

greater on the plan of separate than on that of joint
provision.

It was observed by way of objection to the as-
sumption of the State debts, that the division of the
business would facilitate a provision for the whole
debt of the country, general and particular ; that the
resource of imposts would alone enable Congress
to provide for the general debt, while the States
separately could more conveniently employ other
resources for the particular debts, and that together
they could not only better provide for the interest of
the debt but for the speedy extinguishment of the
principal. This was, in truth, the most plausible
argument which was used against the assumption.

In some of its aspects it was not without founda-
tion, and in contemplating the plan to be proposed
did not escape very serious reflection and examination.

It appeared to me well founded in this important
view: that leaving a provision for the general debt
within the compass of duties on imports, and dis-
embarrassing Congress from the necessity of resort-
ing to other and less agreeable modes of taxation, it
avoided exposing the government in its infancy, and
before it had engaged in its favor habit and opinion
to the clamor and unpopularity which was to be
feared from the resort to other means. To avoid
this inconvenience had many charms for the person
who was to propose a plan ; it seemed to have much
less risk for his reputation and quiet.

But on full and mature reflection, I yielded without
reserve to the conviction that the consideration just
mentioned, though not without weight, was greatly

14 Alexander Hamilton

outweighed by many other considerations, and that
in a personal view it would have been pusillanimity
and weakness to have stopped short of a provision
for the aggregate debt of the country.

Some of the reasons which determined me have
been anticipated:

1. The superior probability of justice among the
States and among the individuals composing them,
including a greater certainty of relief to the over-
burthened States and their citizens, and the advan-
tage of equalizing the condition of the citizens of all
the States as to contributions, which was incident to
the plan of a joint provision.

2. The avoiding of the collisions, heart-burnings,
and bickerings to which fifteen different and com-
prehensive systems of finance connected with a
separate provision for the State debts was subject.

3. To leave the field of revenue more open to the
United States, and thus secure to their government
and the general exigencies of the Union, including
defence and safety, a more full and complete com-
mand of the resources of the nation.

These considerations were of themselves sufficient
to outweigh that which has been stated by way of
objection, but I proceed to add others which con-
curred in determining my judgment.

The assumption would tend to consolidate and
secure public credit.

This would happen from various causes.

If it had not taken place, there would have been a
conflict of interests and feelings among the public
creditors.

The Funding System 15

The creditors of certain States, from the imprac-
ticaUty, admitting a disposition, of making for them
a provision equal to that which was made for the
creditors of the United States, would naturally have
felt jealousy and dissatisfaction. They would have
considered it as unjust that their claims, equally
meritorious, should be worse treated, and the sensi-
bility in certain cases would have been aggravated by
the reflection that the most productive resources,
before exclusively enjoyed by the State Government
and applied to their benefit, had been devoted to the
General Government, and applied by it to the sole
benefit of the national creditors.

This jealousy and dissatisfaction would have aug-
mented the mass of dissatisfaction from other causes
which would exist against an adequate provision for
the general debt. The sources of such dissatisfac-
tion have been stated, and it was certain that en-
mity to the government in some and the spirit of
faction in others would make them engines for
agitating the public mind. Such dissatisfactions in
a popular government especially tend to jeopardize
the security of the public creditors, and, consequently,
of the public credit.

The assumption, by uniting the interests of public
creditors of all descriptions, was calculated to pro-
duce an opposite effect. It brought into the field
an anxiety to fortify the public opinion in opposition
to the efforts of faction and of the anti-proprietary
spirit, in favor of a just and reasonable provision for
the debt and for the support of credit.

These considerations, to a mind which has been

1 6 Alexander Hamilton

attentive to the progress of things since, will have
very particular weight.

The assiimption would favor public credit in an-
other sense, by promoting and enabling a more ade-
quate provision for the entire debt of the country.
This is in direct contradiction to one of the positions
which the objection that was last stated contains.
These are the reasons for a contrary opinion.

Some States — especially Massachusetts, Rhode
Island, Connecticut, South Carolina, and Georgia —
could not have made adequate provision for their
respective debts. There is the ground of experience
to assert that some States were not disposed to do it.
From the co-operation of the two causes, the debts
of a large majority of the States would have remained
without an adequate provision, and would have been
in danger of being frittered away by means incon-
sistent with the spirit of public credit; while the
United States, by assuming the State debts, and by
laying open all the resources of taxation to the com-
mand of the General Government upon a uniform
plan, could, for reasons already detailed, make a
more efficacious and complete provision for every
part of the debt than could possibly have been done
by separate provisions.

This may seem to have been a matter of no con-
cern to the General Government. But the cause of
credit and property is one and the same throughout
the States. A blow to it, in whatever State or in
whatever form, is a blow to it in every State and in
every form. The intimacy of interest and connec-
tion between the States leads to an observance in one

The Funding System 17

of what passes in another. Bad precedents influence
as well as good. They are greedily looked up to and
cited by men of loose principles who make them in-
struments of instilling doctrines and feelings hostile
to morals, property, and credit. It may be averred
as a maxim, without danger of material error, that
there cannot be a violation of public principle in any
State without spreading more or less an evil con-
tagion in all.

It is known that the relaxed conduct of the State
Governments in regard to property and credit was
one of the most serious diseases under which the
body politic labored prior to the adoption of our
present Constitution, and was a material cause of
that state of public opinion which led to its adoption.

The Constitution of the United States contained
guards against this evil. Its provisions inhibit to the
State Governments the power to make any thing but
gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts, or
to pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts,
which had been great engines of violating property,
destroying confidence and credit, and propagating
public dishonor and private distress.

In the practice of the Federal Government it was
wise to second the spirit of those provisions: i, by
avoiding examples of those very practices which
were meant to be guarded against in the States; 2,
by removing, as far as it could be constitutionally
done, out of the way of the States, whatever would
oblige or tempt to further tampering with faith, credit,
and property.

The assumption was calculated to do this, and it

VOL. IX.— .2

1 8 Alexander Hamilton

is not one of its least merits. It has served to pre-
vent the reiteration of examples from necessity or
choice which could not but have a malignant aspect
towards the cause of public credit.

It might be added that the national character
abroad has been rescued from stains by the same
measure. It was not easy for foreigners to distin-
guish accurately between the infractions of credit by
the State Governments and by the General. More
or less it was natural that some confusion of ideas
should prevail, and that the character of the country
at large should suifer from the crookedness of parts.

Another beneficial effect of the assumption favor-
able to public credit was the placing of all the public
funds of the country upon the same foundation.
The price and steadiness or instability of the public
funds are the barometers of public credit, and, with
due allowance for temporary circumstances, they
mark and establish the state of public credit.

It cannot be doubted by a man acquainted with
the subject, that the fluctuations, instability, and
precariousness of the value of property in funds in
this country would have been very much in a ratio
to the variety of kinds and of the foundations on
which they rested; that it would have been incom-
parably greater upon the plan of fifteen different
provisions at different rates by different author-
ities upon different principles, than upon that of
one provision upon one principle by one authority.
It is observable in the European markets that the
principles of the different species of funds afloat in-
fluence each other, though perhaps the causes that

The Funding System 19

affect some ought either not to affect others, or to
affect them differently. Few of the many who deal
habitually, or occasionally, in the funds are able to
appreciate accurately the causes of fluctuations and
what ought to have been the consequences. The
knowing ones take advantage of the facts, and turn
it to their own advantage, commonly to the dis-
advantage of the less knowing and to the injury of
public credit.

A great mass of precarious funds in the shape of
State debts could not have failed to injure and keep
down the funds of the General Government by the
influence of appearances, by the quick and sudden
diversion of money from one channel to another, by
the manoeuvres of speculation, by the distraction of
public opinion.

There are some who reason so much a travers as to
regard a low state of the funds as desirable, because,
say they, it enables the government to sink the debt
more speedily by purchases.

But they forget that the lowness of the funds is
an argument of a bad state of credit, and that the
nation loses more by the greater purchases of foreign-
ers at low prices than it gains by its own purchases at
those prices, and the government loses infinitely
more by the higher premiums and interests which it
must in that case give for new loans than it can gain
in purchases of the bonds given for old loans at low
prices. Let it be remembered that a bond given last
year is as good as a bond given to-day ; that borrow-
ing by the government is in fact only sending its
bonds to market, and if its old bonds are low its new

20 Alexander Hamilton

bonds cannot be high. What would be thought of
the policy of a merchant who should wish to see his
notes at ten shillings in the pound?

Much clamor has been raised against the funding
system on the score of speculation, how justly will be
examined in the proper place, but what would have
been the degree of it on the plan of so many differ-
ent funds or stocks depending on so many different
provisions? It is evident that it would have been
multiplied tenfold. The legerdemain of speculation
would have had full scope for its exertion. To give
as quickly as possible elevation and stability to the
funds was a most important means of raising and
fixing public credit. The assumption, by equalizing
the condition of every part of the public debt, and
placing every part on good and on equal security,
was one of the most effectual expedients for that
purpose.

Another consequence of the assumption, contrary
to what has been supposed, and favorable to public
credit, is that it facilitated a speedy and honorable
extinguishment of the debt.

This results from the superior efficacy of unity in
the financial system; the superior and better com-
mand of the national resources, as well from the
reason assigned as from the probability of greater
skill and order in the arrangements of the General
than the State Governments.

That plan which gave a more systematic and
thorough command of every branch of national re-
sources was evidently better adapted not only to the
effectual payment of interest, but to the speedy

The Funding System 21

honorable discharge of principal, for the very reason
that greater resources could be brought into action.^

Certain States would have had to struggle end-
lessly with their debts — ^happy to be able to face
even the interest. But the General Government was
able to make and has already made a joint provision
which would with due dispatch absorb the whole
debt.

Besides the advantages to public safety and public
credit, consequences very favorable to the ease and
satisfaction of individuals were included in the as-
sumption, of three kinds : i . Lightening the burthens
absolutely of all the citizens of the United States. 2.
Equalizing their condition as to burthens of the citi-
zens of one State with those of another. 3. Bringing
certain relief in the first instance to the over-in-
debted States, and facilitating settlement of accounts.
These are the incidents of the same superiority of
faculty in the General Government to make a con-
venient provision for the whole debt.

It is a curious fact which has not made its due im-
pression, that in every State the people have found
relief from assumption, while an incomparably better
provision than before existed has been made for the
State debts.

^ I have annexed the epithet honorable to that of speedy, because
certainly a more speedy extingtdshment could have been found in
bankruptcy and fraud. There is too much cause to believe that those
who favored the intricate speckled system of State provisions secretly
had an eye to this happy resource. Its evils in every sense have been
delineated, and no one who values his character will avow it. No
sound politician will look with complacency toward it. It was of the
justice and policy of the United States to expel this corruption from the
body politic.

22 Alexander Hamilton

Let the citizens of Virginia be appealed to whether
they have not, in consequence of being exonerated
from the necessity of providing for their debt, been
relieved in degree, or kind from burthens which be-
fore pressed heavily upon them. They must answer
in the affirmative. The same inquiry will find the
same answer in every State. Men wonder at the
lightness of these burthens, and yet at the capacity
of the government to pay the interest of the debt, to
absorb a portion of the principal, and to find exten-
sive resources for defence against Indian ravages.

The solution of the enigma is in the present
financial system of the country, intrinsically more
energetic, more orderly, better directed, and more
uniform and comprehensive than could possibly have
been the case with fifteen different systems to pro-
vide for as many different loads of debt.

The effect of energy and system is to vulgar and
feeble minds a kind of magic which they do not com-
prehend, and thus they make false interpretation of
the most obvious facts. The people of several parts
of the State, relieved and happy by the effects of the
assumption, execrate the measure and its authors, to
which they owe the blessing.

The equalizing the condition of the individual
citizens of the several States by the generalizing of
the provision, is connected with this part of the sub-
ject. It has been already noticed in reference to the
justice of procedures. It deserves particular atten-
tion in the view of policy.

It is impossible to imagine any thing more calcu-
lated to breed discontent, and, between the citizens

The Funding System 23

of the United States, mutual jealousy and animosity,
than the inequality of conditions, which, without the
assumption, would have existed.

When the citizens of Massachusetts or Connecticut
bordering on New York felt themselves burdened
with heavy taxes, while their neighbors of New York
paid scarcely any, what must have been their sensa-
tions? How must they have been stung by the
sense of so unjust an inequality? How must their
envy and dissatisfaction have been excited? How
must this have tended to beget in them discontent
with the government under which they lived, and,
from discontent, to lead them to revolt?

Something of this actually took place. That
spirit of dissatisfaction which produced the insurrec-
tion in Massachusetts was in all probability promoted
by a comparison which exhibited the people of that
State as in a condition far worse than their neighbors.

If it be said that this effect was likely to be tem-
porary, destined to cease upon a settlement of ac-
counts which would bring relief to the overburdened
States, then the remark before made recurs. A set-
tlement at all was precarious and uncertain ; whether
it would bring relief even where it ought to, was still
more precarious and uncertain.

Let us conceive what would have been the effect
under the inequality of conditions which has been
stated, either if a settlement had been long procras-
tinated, or if, having been made, it did not bring
relief to the much-indebted States.

What would then have been the situation of the
public mind in those States ? Who can calculate the

24 Alexander Hamilton

mischiefs which would have attended the disap-
pointment or despair of relief and the prospect of
continuing indefinitely under such unequal loads?

It is a great recommendation of the assumption,
not only that it anticipated a relief which was indis-
pensable and which might not have come from a
settlement, but that it facilitated a settlement and
rendered a tolerable issue far more probable.

This position is thus explained :

The circumstances which have been enumerated
rendered a settlement upon strict or systematic prin-
ciples impracticable. Had the State debts remained
unassumed, the nature of the settlement which might
be made was proportionately important, and imposed
on the commissioners the duty of greater rigor and
exactness. The more this was the case, the more
difficult it was to come to any admissible or satisfac-
tory result. Adherence to principles was likely on
one side or another to produce greater mischief.
Compromise and management were essential.

The assumption of the State debts, by giving re-
lief to the much indebted States, rendered the issue,
and, consequently, the principles of the settlement,
less important. It allowed greater latitude to the
commissioners to deviate from rule, to consult ex-
pediency, to shape the result by a spirit of accom-
modation and concession to circumstances. Hence,
a settlement became more practicable in proportion
as it was less important.

I declare that I am not in the secret of the princi-
ples or maxims by which the commissioners were
governed, but from what I do know of the state of

The Funding System 25

things, with a full conviction of there being as much
disposition on their part of doing as much justice
as possible, I can entertain no doubt that the settle-
ment which they made was essentially artificial and
the result of a thousand compromises of principle.
No other settlement was possible, and I believe none
could ever have been made, had not things been put
upon a footing to enfetter the commissioners.

Thus, then, it is one of the merits of the assump-
tion, that it facilitated a settlement of accounts which
all the States were desirous of, and so has contributed
to establish their harmony. And it is fortunate that
it has so issued as to have produced relief to those
States which, notwithstanding the assumption, were
still left with considerable debts upon them.

This circumstance of there having remained such
balances ' may be urged as an objection to the
reasonings in favor of the assumption. But, to this,
two things are to be replied:

I. That my proposition to Congress embraced the
entire debt of the State, which would have given in
the first instance complete relief. The limitation by
Congress is not chargeable on my plan. It was the
effect of a compromise between the zealous friends of
assumption and some who opposed or doubted, and
was dictated in some degree by a spirit of caution.

But though by this limitation the relief was less
complete in the first instance than was intended by
my plan, enough was done to obviate the principal

' When the Assumption Act was carried out by the commissioners
considerable balances remained, owing to Congress having allowed a
State term which could not be overstepped.

26 Alexander Hamilton

mischiefs, and to ensure that a State could not
be oppressed by the peculiar burthen remaining
upon it.

2. Another advantage incident to the assumption
was the preventing the depopulation of particular
States.

Had the overburdened States remained so any
considerable time while the citizens of other States
were lightly taxed, it could not but have promoted
extremely emigration from the more to the less bur-
dened States. This dislocation of population from
any violent cause or any extraordinary pressure on
parts of the Union cannot but be regarded as a
serious evil. It could not but disturb in some degree
the general order, the due course of industry, the due
circulation of public benefits.

One particular inconvenience would have been to
have increased the inability and distress of the over-
burdened States by lessening the population, from
the labor of which the public resources were to be
derived.

Another particular inconvenience might have been
the transferring the population of the country from
more to less beneficial situations in a national sense.
No one has been more uniformly nor more entirely
than myself in favor of the system of giving a free
course to the population and settlement of our in-
terior country, and of securing to it by the best efforts
of the government the enjoyment of those collateral
advantages on which its prosperity must depend.
This, in my opinion, is preferable as the most natural
policy, and as that which will best secure and cement

The Funding System 27

the unity of the empire. But with this poHcy
adopted in my most unquaHfied manner, I am far
from regarding it as wise to give any extraordinary
occasion or impulse to a transfer of people from the
settled to the unsettled parts of the country. This is
to retard the progress in general improvement, and to
impair for a greater length of time the vigor of the
nation, by scattering too widely and sparsely the ele-
ments of resource and strength. It is to weaken
government by enlarging too rapidly the sphere of its
action, and the Union by stretching out the links of
connection between the different parts.

The true politician will content himself by seeing
new settlements formed by the current of a redundant
population; he will submit, because it is unnatural,
and would be fruitless and unwise, to oppose even a
greater transfer than the mere surplus, by the attrac-
tions to emigration which new countries hold out;
he will seek to tie the emigrants to the friends and
brethren they leave, by a kind and liberal conduct of
the government towards them, by efficacious pro-
tection, and by sincere, persevering, and energetic
endeavors to obtain for them the free and full enjoy-
ment of those rights and advantages which local
situation requires. But he will not accelerate this
transfer by accumulating artificial disadvantages on
the already settled parts of the country; he will even
endeavor to avoid this by removing such disadvan-
tages if casual causes have produced them.

Such without reserve is my sincere view of this
subject, and I deem it no small recommendation of
the assumption that it was a mild and equitable

28 Alexander Hamilton

expedient for preventing a violent dislocation of the
population of particular States.

It remains to mention one consideration which
naturally occurred in the reflections upon the expedi-
ency of assuming the State debts.

This is its tendency to strengthen our infant gov-
ernment by increasing the number of ligaments
between the government and the interests of
individuals.

I frankly acknowledge that this tendency as far as
it appeared to be founded was not excluded from the
calculation, for my opinion has been and is that the
true danger to our prosperity is not the overbearing
strength of the Federal head but its weakness and
imbecility for preserving the union of the States
and controlling the eccentricities of State ambition
and the explosion of factious passions. And a
measure which consistently with the Constitution
was likely to have the effect of strengthening the
fabric would have recommended itself to me on that
account.

But though this was the case; though I thought,
too, that the assumption would have in several senses
a temporary tendency of the kind alluded to, and so
far might serve as a prop to the government in the
infancy of its authority, while there was yet a numer-
ous party alive whose vanity and envy pledged them
to opposition, and before it had acquired the con-
firmations of habit and age, and though weight was
given to the argument where it was thought most
likely to have effect, yet upon the whole it was the
consideration upon which I relied least of all.

The Funding System 29

It appeared to me in a considerable degree counter-
balanced by the suggestion of an objection which has
been stated, the necessity which it imposed on the
government of resorting early to impalatable modes
of taxation which jeopardized its popularity and gave
a handle to its enemies to attack it. It appeared to
me also entitled to the less weight, because, on the
supposition that the debt was to be extinguished
within a moderate term of years, its influence must
then be terminated, and it had not pretensions to
be considered as a permanent or lasting prop to the
government.

Besides that, it was to be foreseen that successive
transfers of considerable portions of the debt to
foreigners and accumulations at home would rapidly
enough lessen the number of ligaments, diminish the
influence upon individuals, and, the taxes continuing,
perhaps invert the effect.

Had this, then, been the weightiest motive to the
measure, it would never have received my patronage.
The great inducements with me were those which
have been previously enumerated, and chiefly the
growing simplicity and energy to the national
finances, the avoiding the collisions of multifarious
and conflicting systems, the securing to the govern-
ment for national exigencies the complete command
of the national resources, the consolidation of public
credit. These were the commanding motives, and it
is believed they were solid.

It is understood that a contrary course has been
a principal cause of embarrassment in the United
Netherlands. The separate debts of the different

30 Alexander Hamilton

provinces have been an endless source of perplexity
and financial imbecility.

But for the same reason that the effect of the
assumption to strengthen the government was a
feeble or ambiguous motive, its importance as an
objection, in the views of those who fear the over- ;
bearing power of the General Government, has been ;
much exaggerated. What solid ground was there for ,"
all the declamation which has represented this meas-
ure as a premeditated plan for overthrowing the
State Governments and consolidating the States into
one? What room was there, in a matter of so tem-
porary and partial an operation, for the dreadful
alarms which were felt or affected?

The inconvenience of an early resort to modes of
taxation which run coimter to public prejudices, has
been mentioned. Its force was felt; but then, in
addition to the reasons immediately connected with
the measure, — which led to it, there were collateral
ones which united to meet it.

The current of popularity immediately after the
adoption of the government ran strongly in its favor.
The immediate Chief Magistrate justly united in his
person the full confidence and cordial regard of the
nation.

It was not to be doubted that intrigues to un-
popularize the government would go on — that the
passions incident to faction, the natural disease of
popular governments, would grow and multiply — that
the rivalships of power would increase. And it was
to be feared that greater difficulties might exist at a
future day to introduce the most difficult species of

The Funding System 31

revenues, however necessary they might be in the then
stage of our affairs. The delay in establishing them
might even be construed into an implied condemna-
tion of them, and might be rendered an argument
against their future introduction. Even negative
precedents in such cases are not without force. While
the advantages of present situation facilitated the in-
troduction of these revenues at the time, the obstacles
that might be afterwards created rendered it advis-
able to occupy the ground, and to avoid, by anticipat-
ing, difficulties. The presidency of the actual Chief
Magistrate was a more favorable period than was
likely in a short time to recur to establish points
favorable to the just and necessary efficiency of the
government.

Besides that, it would probably have been in the
long run an imwise calculation, even of popularity,
for the government to have omitted the measure of
assumption. A weak and embarrassed government
never fails to be impopular. It attaches to itself the
disrespect incident to weakness, and, unable to pro-
mote the public happiness, its impotencies are its
crimes. Without the assumption, the government
would have been for a long time at least under all
the entanglements and imbecilities of a complicated
clashing and disordered system of finance.

The foregoing considerations appeared to me de-
cisive for proposing an assumption of the State debts.
Experience has not led me to repent the measure, and
I believe it will more and more recommend itself even
to its enemies.

In the course of the remarks which have been made,

32 Alexander Hamilton

the considerations which combated the mode of pro-
ceeding with regard to assumption — namely, an entire
assumption of the State debts and a dereliction of the
settlement of accounts, have been anticipated. The
state of public opinion was an insuperable obstacle.
Almost every State flattered itself with being a cred-
itor, and imagined a particular interest in a settle-
ment. The renunciation of it would consequently
have destroyed the confidence and disturbed the
harmony of the States, else it would imdoubtedly
have been the best policy and as good justice to
have renounced it. There was no groimd of pro-
cedure more likely to promote mutual justice and
convenience, than to assume as a principle that each
State in the war had exerted itself to the extent of its
faculties, that the subsisting debts were to be paid out
of a common treasury, and that all retrospection and
reliquidation between the States were to be aban-
doned. But this great and liberal measure was
impossible. All parties accordingly concurred in
demanding a settlement.

The course of the argument has stated and replied
to all the objections to the assumption except one.
This is that it has tended to increase the mass of the
debt.

This observation has frequently been so managed
as to infuse into the minds of many, a vague, confused
conception that the public debt of the country has
been augmented in mass to the extent of the aggre-
gate sum of State debts assumed. But it were
absurd to attempt a refutation of this idea. It is
self-evident that the assumption in this respect did

The Funding System 33

nothing more than transfer the particular debts to the
Union. It united fourteen sums in one, and charged
them upon one responsibihty, that of the Union,
instead of leaving them to exist separately, charge-
able on the separate responsibilities of the Union and
the individual States. The debt of the Union was in-
creased, but the debts of the several members of it
were proportionably decreased. The mass of public
DEBT consequently remained the same, on the in-
fallible evidence of a mathematical axiom that a
WHOLE cannot be greater than its parts.

But the objection has had a more particular signifi-
cation. It has amounted to this, that the debts of
the States have been twice provided for, once to the
individual creditors who held evidences of State
debts, and once to the States in whose favor balances
were foimd at the settlement. This objection, like
most others from the same quarter, has been pre-
sented in a shape so general, inexplicit, and naked
of explanation, that it is not easy even to compre-
hend, much less to answer it. It probably turns
on a sophism or error which supposes the same
item of service or supply twice represented, once
in the evidence or voucher given by the State to
the person who served or supplied, and once in the
account of the State as a charge against the United
States.

But this supposition of double representation over-
looks the material fact that by the plan of settlement
according to the assumption the sums assumed by the
United States to individuals are charged to the State
which incurred them, and so balance and extinguish

VOL. IX.— 3.

34 Alexander Hamilton

the correlative charge for the service or supply which
was the origin of the debt.

Moreover, it is manifest in point of result that the
objection can have little if any foundation.'

' The conclusion of this paper is lacking. All that remains imprinted
is an imperfect outline of a proof, by figures, of the proposition that
no part of the debt was paid twice.

PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE

3S

Note. — A few words of explanation only are needed in addition to
what has already been said in the preface to this edition as to the
private correspondence. The letters are all from Hamilton, and,
being arranged chronologically, constitute to a certain extent an
autobiography. They may be divided into three classes : those which
were printed in the edition of 1850; those which have been printed
elsewhere and were not included in that edition ; and those which are
now printed for the first time from the original manuscripts. The
letters in the edition of 1850, except in the few cases where the original
has been lost, have all been carefully collated, thanks to the untiring
kindness of Mr. Dwight, who was at that time the librarian of the
State Department, with the originals in the Hamilton papers. As first
published, they aboiinded in errors, for the most part verbal, but some-
times more serious. These errors have been corrected, and the text is
now believed to be correct. The letters now first printed have been
drawn from many sources and have all been carefully transcribed and
collated. Those which have been printed elsewhere than in the edition
of 1850 have been collated with the originals so far as it could be done.
Unfortunately this was impossible in some instances, and particularly
in the case of several letters which are to be foimd only in J. C.
Hamilton's History of the Republic. Every effort has been made to
secure all the Hamilton letters extant, not only by private research,
but by public advertisement, and the editor believes that compara-
tively few letters of any importance have escaped him. Every letter
of the slightest historical value which has come under the notice of
the editor is given in full in the following pages, and all letters devoid
of historical or personal interest have been scrupulously excluded.
The source of every letter given here is indicated, except in the case
of those reprinted from the edition of 1850. The notes are intended
merely to explain the object of the letter when it is obscure, or to
identify the persons to whom the letters are addressed or who are
mentioned incidentally by the writer.

PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE

TO EDWARD STEVENS'

St. Croix, Nov. ii, 1769.

THIS just serves to acknowledge receipt of yours
per Capt. Lowndes, which was delivered me
yesterday. The truth of Capt. Lightbowen and
Lowndes' information is now verified by the presence
of your father and sister, for whose safe arrival I
pray ; and that they may convey that satisfaction to
your soul that must naturally flow from the sight of
absent friends in health; and shall, for news this
way, refer you to them. As to what you say respect-
ing your having soon the happiness of seeing us all, I
wish for an accomplishment of your hopes, provided
they are concomitant with your welfare; otherwise
not; though I doubt whether I shall be present or
not, for, to confess my weakness, Ned, my ambition
is prevalent, so that I contemn the grovelling con-
dition of a clerk or the like, to which my fortune, etc.,
condemns me, and would willingly risk my life,
though not my character, to exalt my station. I am
confident, Ned, that my youth excludes me from any

^ Edward Stevens, the friend of Hamilton's boyhood, was the son of
Mr. Stevens, a West India planter and merchant. Hamilton's relations
with the Stevens family were very intimate, and young Stevens ac-
companied him to this cotmtry where they both were educated.
n

38 Alexander Hamilton

hopes of immediate preferment; nor do I desire it;
but I mean to prepare the way for futurity. I 'm no
philosopher, you see, and may justly be said to build
castles in the air; my folly makes me ashamed, and
I beg you 11 conceal it; yet, Neddy, we have seen
such schemes successful when the projector is con-
stant. I shall conclude saying, I wish there was a
war.

P. S. — I this morning received yours by William
Smith, and am pleased to see you give such close ap-
plication to study.

TO TILEMAN CRUGER ^

St. Croix, Nov. i6, 1771.

In behalf of Mr. Nicholas Cruger ' (who, by reason
of a very ill state of health, went from this to New
York, the 15th ult.), I have the pleasure to address
you by the long-expected sloop Thunderbolt, Capt.
William Newton, owned by Messrs. Jacob Walton,
John Harris, and Nicholas Cruger, the latter of whom
has written you fully concerning her destination,
which I need not repeat. She has on board besides
a parcel of lumber for yourself, sundry articles on
account of her owners as per inclosed bill of lading;
and when you have disposed of them, you will please
to credit each partner for one third of the proceeds.

Mr. N. Cruger 's proportion of this, and the balance

^ This letter is one of a number of similar letters written by Hamilton
while a clerk in Mr. Cruger's cotmting-room. It is given merely as a
specimen of his business correspondence which was certainly remark-
able for a boy of fourteen.

3 The gentleman in whose office Hamilton was employed.

Private Correspondence 39

of your account hitherto, will more than pay for his
one third cost of her first cargo up ; and for the other
two, I shall endeavor to place value in your hands
betimes. I only wish for a line from you to know
what will best answer.

Reports here represent matters in a very disagree-
able light, with regard to the Guarda Costas, which
are said to swarm upon the coast ; but as you will be
the best judge of what danger there might be, all is
submitted to your prudent direction.

Capt. Newton must arm with you, as he could not
so conveniently do it here. Give me leave to hint to
you that you cannot be too particular in your instruc-
tions to him. I think he seems to want experience in
such voyages. Messrs. Walton and John H. Cruger
are to furnish you themselves with their respective
proportion of the cost of the several cargoes.

The staves on board, if by any means convenient, I
beg may be returned by the sloop; they will com-
mand a good price here, and I suppose little or no-
thing with you; could they be got at I would not
send them down, but they are stowed promiscuously
among other things.

If convenient, please to deliver the hogsheads, now
containing the Indian meal, to the captain as water
casks, and others should he want them. I supplied
him with twenty here. I must beg your reference to
Mr. Cruger 's last letter of the 2d ult. for other par-
ticulars.

Our crop will be very early, so that the utmost
dispatch is necessary to import three cargoes of
mules in due time.

40 Alexander Hamilton

TO THE PROVINCIAL CONGRESS OF NEW YORK '

New York, May 26, 1776.

Gentlemen :

I take the liberty to request your attention to a
few particulars, which will be of considerable import-
ance to the future progress of the company under
my command : and I shall be much obliged to you for
as speedy a determination concerning them as you
can conveniently give. The most material is respect-
ing the pay. Our company, by their articles, are to
be subject to the same regulations, and to receive the
same pay, as the Continental Artillery. Hitherto I
have conformed to the standard laid down in the
Journal of the Congress, published the loth May,
1775; but I am well informed that, by some later
regulation, the pay of the Artillery has been aug-
mented, and now stands according to the following
rates: Captain, ;^io. 13. 4. Captain-Lieutenant, £S.
Lieutenants, each, £j. 6. 8. Sergeants, £^. 6. 8.
Corporals, £s. i. 4. Bombardiers, £s. 1. 4. Gun-
ners, £^. Matrosses, £2. 17. 4. Drummers and
Fifers, £s. By comparing these with my pay-rolls,
you will discover a considerable difference; and I
doubt not you will be easily sensible that such a
difference should not exist.

I am not personally interested in having an aug-
mentation agreeably to the above rates, because my
own pay will remain the same as that it now is : but I
make this application on behalf of the company; as
I am fully convinced such a disadvantageous distinc-

' Hamilton was at this time captain of an artillery company of the
New York troops.

Private Correspondence 41

tion will have a very pernicious effect on the minds
and behavior of the men. They do the same duty
with the other companies, and think themselves
entitled to the same pay. They have been already
comparing accounts ; and many marks of discontent
have lately appeared on this score. As to the cir-
cumstance of our being confined to the defence of the
colony, it will have little or no weight ; for there are
but few in the company, who would not as willingly
leave the colony on any necessary expedition, as stay
in it : and they will not, therefore, think it reasonable
to have their pay curtailed on such a consideration.
Captain Beauman, I understand, enlists all his men
on the above terms ; and this makes it difficult for me
to get a single recruit: for men will naturally go to
those who pay them best. On this account, I should
wish to be immediately authorized to offer the same
pay to all who may be inclined to enlist. The next
thing I should wish to know, is, whether I must be
allowed my actual expenses that might attend the
enlistment of men, should I send into the coimtry
for that purpose. The expense would not be great ;
and it would enable me to complete my company at
once, and bring it the sooner into proper order and
discipline.

Also, I should be glad to be informed if my com-
pany is to be allowed the frock which is given to the
other troops as a bounty. This frock would be ex-
tremely serviceable in summer, while the men are on
fatigue ; and would put it in their power to save their
uniform much longer. I am, gentlemen, with the
greatest respect, etc.

42 Alexander Hamilton

TO THE PROVINCIAL CONGRESS

July 26, 1776.

Gentlemen :

I am obliged to trouble you to remove a difficulty
which arises respecting the quantity of subsistence
which is to be allowed my men. Inclosed you have
the rates of rations, which is the standard allowance
of the whole Continental, and even the provincial,
army; but it seems Mr. Curtenius cannot afford to
supply us with more than his contract stipulates;
which, by comparison, you will perceive is consider-
ably less than the forementioned rate.

My men, you are sensible, are, by their articles,
entitled to the same subsistence with the Continental
troops and it would be to them an insupportable dis-
crimination, as well as a breach of the terms of their
enlistment, to give them almost a third less provisions
than the whole army besides receives. I doubt not
you will readily put this matter upon a proper footing.

Hitherto we have drawn our full allowance from
Mr. Curtenius; but he did it upon the supposition
that he would have a farther consideration for the
extraordinary supply.

At present, however, he scruples to proceed in the
same way, till it can be put upon a more certain
foundation. I am, gentlemen, etc.

TO the honorable convention of new YORK

New York, August, 1776.

It is necessary I should inform you that there is
at present a vacancy in my company, arising from
the promotion of Lieut. Johnson to a captaincy in one

Private Correspondence 43

of the new Gallies (which command, however, he has
since resigned for a very particular reason). As
artillery officers are scarce in proportion to the call
for them, and as myself and my remaining officers
sustain an extraordinary weight of duty on account
of the present vacancy, I shall esteem it a favor, if you
will be pleased, as soon as possible, to make up my
deficiency by a new appointment. It would be pro-
ductive of much inconvenience should not the inferior
officers succeed in course, and from this consideration
I doubt not you will think it proper to advance
Mr. Gilleland and Mr. Bean, and fill up the third
lieutenancy with some other person. I would beg
the liberty warmly to recommend to your attention
Thomas Thompson, — now first sergeant in my com-
pany,— a man highly deserving of notice and prefer-
ment. He has discharged his duty in his present
station with uncommon fidelity, assiduity, and ex-
pertness. He is a very good disciplinarian — pos-
sesses the advantage of having seen a good deal of
service in Germany, has a tolerable share of common
sense, and will not disgrace the rank of an officer and
gentleman. In a word, I verily believe he will make
an excellent lieutenant, and his advancement will be
a great encouragement and benefit to my company in
particular, and will be an animating example to all
men of merit to whose knowledge it comes. Myself
and my officers will be much obliged to the Hon. the
Convention to favor us with our commissions with all
convenient speed, as they may be highly requisite
under some circumstances that may possibly here-
after arise.

44 Alexander Hamilton

TO THE PROVINCIAL CONGRESS

MoRRiSTOWN, March 6, 1777.

Gentlemen:

It is necessary I should inform you of the changes
which have happened in your company of artillery,
which would have been done long ago, had I not been
prevented by sickness, from which I am but lately
recovered.

General Washington has been pleased to appoint
me one of his aids-de-camp. Captain-Lieutenant
James Moore, a promising officer, and who did credit
to the State he belonged to, died about nine weeks
ago. Lieutenant James Gilleland, some time before
that resigned his commission, prompted by domestic
inconveniences, and other motives best known to
himself. There remain now only two officers, Lieu-
tenants Bean and Thompson, and about thirty men.
The reason that the number of men is so reduced,
besides death and desertions, was owing to a breach
of orders in Lieutenant Johnson, who first began the
enlistment of the company, and who, instead of en-
gaging them during the war, according to the inten-
tion of the State, engaged them for the limited term
of a twelvemonth. The time of those enlisted by
him has expired, and for want of power to re-engage
them they have mostly entered into other corps.

I have to request you will favor me with instruc-
tions as to your future intentions. If you design to
retain the company on the particular establishment
of the State, it will be requisite to complete the num-
ber of officers, and make provision to have the com-
pany filled by a new enlistment. In this case, I

Private Correspondence 45

should beg leave to recommend to your notice, as far
as a captain-lieutenancy, Mr. Thompson. Mr. Bean
is so incurably addicted to a certain failing, that I
cannot, in justice, give my opinion in favor of his
preferment. But if you should determine to resign
the company, as I expect you will, considering it
as an extraordinary burthen without affording any
special advantages, the Continent will readily take it
off your hands so soon as you shall intimate your
design to relinquish it. I doubt not you will see the
propriety of speedily deciding on the matter, which
the good of the service requires.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS, ROBERT LIVINGSTON, AND
WILLIAM ALLISON, ESQS.'

March 20, 1777.

Gentlemen :

With cheerfulness I embrace the proposal of cor-
responding with your convention through you, and
shall from time to time, as far as my leisure will
permit and my duty warrant, communicate such
transactions as shall happen, such pieces of intelli-
gence as shall be received, and such comments upon
them as shall appear necessary to convey a true idea
of what is going on in the military line. Let me
caution you, however, that whatever opinions I shall
give in the course of our correspondence are to be
considered merely as my private sentiments, and are
never to be interpreted as an echo of those of the

* These gentlemen formed a committee of the New York Convention.

46 Alexander Hamilton

General; since they will not be really so, and a con-
struction of the kind may lead into errors and be
productive of inconveniences.

The present season affords nothing of importance.
There are, daily, little skirmishes arising from attempts
of the enemy to forage ; but which, though generally
favorable to us, are attended with consequences so
trifling and insignificant as to be scarcely worth men-
tioning. They are, indeed, of great service in the
general scale, as they serve to harass and distress the
enemy, and, by keeping them from forage, will put
them under difficulties as to the transportation of
their baggage and cannon whenever they shall think
of making any capital movement. One thing worthy
of notice is, that hardly a day passes without some
deserter coming in. The fact itself, and the accounts
they concurrently give, prove that the spirit of de-
sertion runs high; and the reason assigned for it is,
that many of the regiments have been a very long
time without pay, and that the men are most bar-
barously treated if they only dare to lisp their dis-
content on the score of it.

'T is rumored that the Congress have received a
letter from Dr. Franklin, by which he seems to be in
such high spirits as to prognosticate a favorable dis-
position of affairs in the quarter where he is. I was
just now also transiently told that he had been re-
ceived in the public character of a plenipotentiary
from the American States. When it receives con-
firmation, I will give it to you.

I shall observe your directions respecting a trans-
ference of the company lately mine to the Continental

Private Correspondence 47

establishment, and in my next shall communicate
the result of my inquiry into the present state of
your cannon. The General is now perfectly recov-
ered, and, added to the pleasure of returning health,
enjoys the solace of his lady's company, who has
lately joined the army.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS, ETC.

Headquarters, Morristown, March 22, 1777.

Gentlemen:

Two days ago I accepted your challenge and met
you for the first time in the epistolary field, since
which I had the pleasure of receiving yours of the
19th instant, and, as far as circumstances will per-
mit, close with your proposal of interchanging blows
twice a week=

The present time is so unfruitful of events that it
affords no intelligence worthy of your notice. As to
transactions of a military nature, I can only say that
the British army continues to decrease by the daily
loss of prisoners and deserters taken at and coming
into the different posts, which is a striking symptom
that the situation of affairs with the enemy is not so
favorable as it might be; for when an army is in
good humor and its affairs prosperous, desertion is a
disease that seldom prevails in it.

From all the accounts they have given us, seconded
by considerations that obviously present themselves,
it is my opinion the enemy will make no grand
movement before the beginning of May, and perhaps
not then. There is no expectation in their army of

48 Alexander Hamilton

their being speedily called to the field, nor the least
disposition of matters that I have heard of for a sud-
den excursion. It will be a long time before the
roads will be fit for the transportation of artillery,
which is an essential instrument in their operations;
and a still longer before the ground will permit of an
encampment consistent with the health and comfort
of the soldiers ; and it would defeat their ptirpose to
undertake any thing of importance under circum-
stances that would oblige them to divide their army
in order to accommodate it. It seems also to be an
opinion supported by the best reasons, that the
main object with which they will open the campaign
will be the capture of Philadelphia. If so, they will
have a greater probability of success by co-operating
both by sea and land ; and the preparations for this,
added to the dangers of making an attempt by water
at too early a season, will in all likelihood protract the
execution of their project at least till the time I have
mentioned.

I intimated that it might perhaps be later before
they would move. It seems to me a pretty general
idea in their army, that they will wait for reinforce-
ments before they take the field. Should they do
this, I see not from what quarter they can expect any
succors worth mentioning so early as the beginning of
May. But I would lay no great stress upon this.
Notwithstanding the idea is countenanced by their
weakness in numbers, which must make their success
more doubtful and expose them to greater hazards in
whatever they attempt than can be agreeable where
so much is at stake, much will depend, however, upon

Private Correspondence 49

the comparative strength of our army, and the con-
ception they may form of it.

Though I do not doubt your discretion, which
occasioned me so readily to embrace your proposal,
yet such is the delicacy of my situation, that I must
beg leave to repeat what I before observed to you,
that whenever I give opinions they are merely my
own, and will probably, so far from being a transcript
of those of the General, differ widely from them in
many respects. The one I now advance is of this
kind, and is besides improper to be generally circu-
lated; for many people who have the management
of affairs are of so lethargic a complexion that they
are to be kept in action only by the fear of immediate
danger, — and should they get it into their heads that
the enemy would remain idle for six weeks, would
think they had a right to doze away forty days at
least.

In my last I mentioned a rumor concerning Doctor
Franklin ; since that I have seen something said (and
I believe it) to be an extract of a letter from him to
Mr. Bache, of Philadelphia, in which he represents
things to be in an excellent train in France, and uses
this strong emphatical language, that a war between
her and Britain "was as inevitable as death." No
public advices from him that I know of have reached
headquarters.

I spoke to General Knox about your cannon in the
Continental service. He answered that it would be
difficult to ascertain to what particular class the
pieces that had been left belonged, but he considered
the Continent at all times bound to make good the

VOL. IX.— 4.

50 Alexander Hamilton

number borrowed from your State ; and that he had
still your six pieces in his hands. I have always
looked upon the matter in the same light.

TO THE COMMITTEE OF THE NEW YORK CONVENTION
Headquarters, Morristown, April 5, 1777.

Gentlemen:

Since my last I have had the pleasure of receiving
your reply to my two favors of the 29th ultimo and
2d current. I am happy enough to be able to inform
you that my indisposition, which was the occasion of
my brevity when I last wrote, is now removed.

The opinion I advanced respecting the enemy's not
moving before the beginning of May, seems to be
shaken, though not entirely overthrown, by some
present appearances. We have received information
that they are embarking about three thousand men
on board of transports, which are lying at the Hook,
by way of Staten Island. This, it is conjectured, is
with a view to the Delaware; and the supposition
is confirmed by the circimistance of a confederacy
lately detected at Philadelphia, who, among other
things, were endeavoring, by the temptation of fifty
pounds, to engage persons as pilots up that river.
The extreme difficulties they must labor under for
want of forage, and the infinite hazard they must run
by moving with a small body of about five thousand
men, with an enemy in the rear, incapable of sparing
any considerable body of troops to form a post be-
hind, and be an asylum to them in case of accident, —

Private Correspondence 51

these circumstances will hardly allow me to think
they will be daring enough to make an attempt at
this time. But on the other hand, as they know we
are in a progressive state as to numbers, and other
matters of importance, and as they have no prospect
of early reinforcement, and are in a state of uncer-
tainty as to any, from the bustling aspect of Euro-
pean affairs, it is probable they may conceive a
necessity of making a push at all risks. Perhaps,
however, this embarkation is intended for some other
purpose ; to make a diversion, or execute some parti-
san exploit elsewhere. On the whole, I find it diffi-
cult to believe they are yet ready for any capital
operation.

As to your apprehensions of an attempt up the
North River, I imagine you may discard any un-
easiness on that score, although it will be at all times
advisable to be on the watch against such a contin-
gency. It is almost reduced to a certainty, that the
principal views of the enemy, in the ensuing cam-
paign, will be directed towards the southward, and
to Philadelphia more immediately ; of which idea, the
discovery before mentioned, with respect to pilots, is
no inconsiderable confirmation. Philadelphia is an
object calculated to strike and attract attention. It
has all along been the main source of supplies towards
the war; and the getting it into their possession
would deprive us of a wheel we could very badly
spare, in the great political and military machine.
They are sensible of this, and are equally sensible,
that it contains, in itself, and is surrounded by, a
prodigious number of persons attached to them, and

52 Alexander Hamilton

inimicable to us, who would lend them all the assist-
ance they could, in the further prosecution of their
designs. It is also a common and well-grounded
rule in war, to strike first and principally, at the
capital towns and cities, in order to the conquest of
a country.

I must confess I do not see any object equally
interesting to draw their efforts to the northward.
Operations merely for plundering and devastation
can never answer their end; and if they could, one
part of the continent would do nearly as well as an-
other. And as to the notion of forming a junction
with the northern army, and cutting off the com-
munication between the Northern and Southern
States, I apprehend it will do better in speculation
than in practice. Unless the geography of the
country is far different from any thing I can conceive,
to effect this would require a chain of posts, and such
a number of men at each as would never be practi-
cable or maintainable, but to an immense army. In
their progress, by hanging upon their rear, and
seizing every opportunity of skirmishing, their situa-
tion might be rendered insupportably uneasy.

But for fear of mistake, the General has determined
to collect a considerable body of troops at or about
Peekskill, which will not be drawn off till the
intentions of the enemy have acquired a decisive
complexion. These will be ready, according to con-
junctures, either to proceed northerly or southerly, as
may be requisite. Every precaution should be taken
to prevent the boats from being destroyed, by col-
lecting them, at the first movement of the enemy,

Private Correspondence 53

under cover of one of the forts, or into some inlet,
difficult of access, and easily defensible with a small
number of men. The loss of them would be an
irreparable disadvantage.

The enemy's attempt upon Peekskill is a demon-
stration of the folly of having any quantity of stores
at places so near the water, and so much exposed to
a sudden inroad. There should never be more there
than sufficient to answer present demands. We have
lost a good deal in this way at different times, and I
hope experience will at last make us wiser.

His Excellency lately had a visit from the Oneida
Chief and five others. He managed them with a
good deal of address, and sent them away perfectly
satisfied. He persuaded them to go to Philadelphia,
but they declined it, alleging their impatience to
return, and remove the erroneous opinions of their
countrymen, from the misrepresentations of British
emissaries, which they were apprehensive might draw
them into some rash proceedings. They parted, after
having made the most solemn protestations of friend-
ship and good will. His Excellency has been very
busy all day in dispatching the southern post, which
has prevented me giving him your resolve. It will,
no doubt, be very acceptable ; and it is with pleasure
I inform you that the zeal and abilities of the New
York Convention hold the first rank in his estimation.

No news from France, save that the Congress have
obtained a credit there, for which they can draw bills
to the amount of ;/^ 100,000 sterling. This will be
extremely serviceable in carrying on a trade with the
French. The new troops begin to come in. If we

54 Alexander Hamilton

can shortly get any considerable accession of strength
we may be able to strike some brilliant stroke.

P. S. — We have been some time endeavoring to
negotiate a regular cartel; but it has been lately
broken off, principally on account of Major-General
Lee. General Howe will not allow him to be compre-
hended under the general idea of American prisoners.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS, ETC.

Headquarters, Morristown, April 12, 1777.

Gentlemen:

I this day have received your favor of the 8th
instant. Hurry of business prevents my entering
into a particular detail of affairs, either with respect
to the enemy or ourselves, though matters remain
much in the same situation as when I last wrote.
The enemy are unquestionably preparing to take the
field as soon as possible, notwithstanding which I
believe it may be full as late as I at first suggested
before they will be perfectly ready for a general
movement. By several persons who have come out
of New York within these few days, it is pretty well
confirmed that they have constructed a bridge to be
laid upon boats, for the purpose, in all probability, of
crossing the Delaware.

The new levies begin to come in from the south-
ward, but not in such large numbers as could be
wished. It is to be hoped, however, that we shall
shortly be sufficiently reinforced to give an effectual
obstruction to their designs. The Congress have
resolved, if the General approves, to form a camp on

Private Correspondence 55

the west side of the Delaware, and have called upon
Pennsylvania to furnish 3,000 militia to join the
same. Every nerve must and will be strained to
prevent Philadelphia falling into the enemy's hands.
It is a place of infinite importance.

It is said there are favorable accounts lately re-
ceived from Doctor Franklin; but we have no au-
thentic advice of the kind, nor does the report extend
to any particulars.

Your sentiments of Major Edmonston's conduct
correspond with the General's ideas of it. He had
given some directions to General Schuyler on the
subject. Besides other purposes it might serve, the
design of his going to Canada was evidently that he
might be a vehicle of instructions to General Carleton.
It would be the most convenient, certain, and expe-
ditious mode they could have fallen upon to convey
them. I communicated the paragraph of your letter
respecting him to his Excellency. He wishes the
major might be sent on directly to Philadelphia. I
fancy he would be glad to be saved the trouble of an
interview with him.

I should be obliged to you to inform the conven-
tion, that it is my opinion the General will not permit
Mr. Leroy to go into New York. It is a determined
point with him to grant no such indulgence when any
matter of the kind is referred to him, unless the per-
son applying can assign the most substantial reasons
for his request, and can also produce explicit creden-
tials of his political principles and conduct being
favorable to the American cause. I conclude from
my being instructed to require his parole, that he

56 Alexander Hamilton

cannot give satisfaction on these points. If, how-
ever, he should obtain permission, I will execute the
resolve transmitted to me. For the future, if the
convention have cogent reasons for allowing any sub-
ject of the State to go in to the enemy, as they are
the best judges of all the circumstances concerning
him, they had better send him in without referring
the matter particularly to the General.

I take the liberty to inclose a letter to the care of
Mr. Jay, the delivery of which to him will be a favor
conferred on, etc.

TO THE COMMITTEE OF THE NEW YORK CONVENTION

Headquarters, Morristown, April 20, 1777.

Gentlemen :

The disposition of the convention, with respect to
the disaffected among you, is highly commendable,
and justified by every principle of equity and policy.
The necessity of exemplary punishment throughout
the States is become evident beyond a doubt, and it
were to be wished every one of the thirteen would
imitate the judicious conduct of New York. Lenity
and forbearance have been tried too long to no pur-
pose: it is high time to discard what the clearest
experience has shown to be ineffectual.

But in dispensing punishment, the utmost care and
caution ought to be used. The power of doing it, or
even of bringing the guilty to trial, should be placed
in hands that know well how to use it. I believe it
would be a prudent rule to meddle with none but
those whose crimes are supported by very sufficient

Private Correspondence 57

evidence, and are of a pretty deep dye. The appre-
hending innocent persons, or those whose offences are
of so slender a nature as to make it prudent to dis-
miss them, furnishes an occasion of triumph, and a
foundation for a species of animadversion which is
very injurious to the pubHc cause. Persons so appre-
hended generally return home worse than they were,
and by expatiating on their sufferings, first excite the
pity towards themselves, and afterwards the abhor-
rence towards their persecutors, of those with whom
they converse. I believe it would also be in general a
good rule either to pardon offenders entirely, or to
inflict capital and severe punishments. The advice
given by a certain general to his son, when the latter
had the Roman army in his power, was certainly very
politic : he advised him either to destroy them utterly
or to dismiss them with every mark of honor and
respect. By the first method, says he, you disable
the Romans from being your enemies; by the last,
you make them your friends. So with respect to the
Tories; I would either disable them from doing us
any injury, or I would endeavor to gain their friend-
ship by clemency. Inflicting trifling punishments
only embitters the minds of those on whom they fall,
and increases their disposition to do mischief without
taking away the power of doing it.

I shall communicate your additional resolve to the
General and consult him on what you mention, and
shall let you know his opinion in my next: mine,
however, is that those who appear to be of such a
character as to be susceptible of reformation, should
be employed ; but it is a delicate point.

58 Alexander Hamilton

As to news, the most material is, that from in-
telligence received from Rhode Island, it appears
the enemy are abandoning it. This is a preparatory
step to the intended operations of the enemy.

The other day we surprised a lieutenant's guard,
took sixteen prisoners, and killed three or four.

In a private letter from Philadelphia I am informed
that a treaty of a very particular nature is on the
point of being concluded between the Court of
France and the States of America. There is a pro-
spect of opening a trade with Sweden. I hear Mr.
Morris,' of Philadelphia, has a vessel arrived from
thence.

TO THE COMMITTEE OF THE NEW YORK CONVENTION

Headquarters, Morristown, April 28, 1777.

Gentlemen:

Extreme hurry of business puts it out of my power
to say but very little.

Your information concerning a piece of ordnance
lately constructed at Philadelphia is true. There is
such a piece at headquarters, weighs 227 pounds,
carries a three-potmd ball. The iron is wrought,
hooped, and welded together. The General and
others esteem it a great acquisition. It has been
fired twenty times, as fast as possible, and is sup-
posed to be thorough proof. For my part I am
rather dubious of this matter, and have recom-
mended fifty successive discharges instead of twenty.
If she would stand that, her sufficiency would be

I Robert Morris, the distinguished financier of the revolution.

Private Correspondence 59

ascertained beyond a doubt, and her value would be
immense; and as it is a new experiment, we cannot
take too much pains to be sure. If Mr. Livingston
can construct pieces of the same kind and weight that
will stand a similar proof, he will render the most
essential service to his country. We cannot have too
respectable an artillery, and he need not doubt they
will be wanted.

As to ships opposite to Fort Washington, the
General first supposed they might be intended to
make a descent on the Jersey side and come by sur-
prise on our left flank ; but he now considers it wholly
as an amusement, while they were executing their
attempt on the stores at Danbury. Of this affair
you are probably as well advised as we are.

I thank you for your promise of sending me the
model of your government as soon as published. I
have sanguine expectations concerning it.

Nothing new at headquarters but the attempt
against Danbury. If the enemy do not * * * * i
till they get reinforced or receive further orders.

Troops coming on from the southward. We are
told two thousand Carolinians, far on their way to
Philadelphia — a part arrived.

TO WILLIAM LIVINGSTON '

April, 1777.

A number of disaffected persons having been taken
up and brought to his Excellency, he has ordered an

' Not legible in the manuscript.

2 The distinguished revolutionary Governor of New Jersey.

6o Alexander Hamilton

examination into their cases to know who of them
were subject to a military jurisdiction, and who came
properly under the cognizance of the civil power;
also to discriminate those who were innocent or
guilty of trivial offences from those whose crimes
were of a more capital and heinous nature, directing
that those of the former character should be dis-
missed, and those of the latter be referred to you for
further trial and punishment. The examination, at
which I was present, has been accordingly made, and
the enclosed list of names will inform you of those
who have been deemed proper subjects for a legal
prosecution ; and who are herewith sent under guard
to be disposed of as you shall direct. I have trans-
mitted you a bundle of papers, in which you will
find the information and evidence that support the
charges against them, and the confession they made
in the court of inquiry. Many of them have nothing
against them but what is to be found in their own
acknowledgments. How far these may operate in
fixing their guilt you can best determine. Several
of them have been taken in arms, and others were
beyond a doubt employed in enlisting men for the
service of the enemy. You will readily concur with
his Excellency in the obvious necessity of inflicting
exemplary punishment on such daring offenders, to
repress that insolent spirit of open and avowed
enmity to the American cause, which, unhappily, is
too prevalent in this and some of the States. The
examination, in this instance, is somewhat irregular
and out of the common order of things. But in the
present unsettled state of government, the distinc-

Private Correspondence 6i

tion between the civil and military powers cannot be
upheld with that exactness which every friend to
society must wish. His Excellency desires to avoid
nothing more, I flatter myself you will believe me,
than deviations from the strict rules of propriety in
this respect, or the least encroachments either upon
the rights of the citizens or of the magistrate. It
was necessary to make inquiry for the sake of the
discrimination before mentioned, and tenderness to
the innocent, to save them from long and immerited
confinement, commended the measure.'

TO WILLIAM LIVINGSTON

Headquarters, Morristown, April 29, 1777.

Sir:

The inclosed was intended to be sent with the
prisoners mentioned in the list ; but before this could
be conveniently done, Mr. Sims, one of the Chief-
Justices of the State, came to this town, and informed
me, that the Governor and Council were upon the
point of adjourning; and that the sending of the
prisoners to them would only be an embarrassment,
without answering, at present, any valuable purpose.
He considered himself authorized to take the matter
under his direction, and desired a sight of the papers
relating to it. After perusing them, he determined
it was best the prisoners should remain here, until he
should receive your further orders on the subject;
and delivered me a letter for you, containing a repre-
sentation of their cases, as they appear to him, in

' Reprinted from Hamilton's History of the Republic, i., 194.

62 Alexander Hamilton

order to know your sense, in what manner they shall
be disposed of.

He admits two of them, Woolverton and Silas
Howel, to bail.

In addition to the former, I send you a second list
of four others that have been lately committed to
jail. These are high offenders, and among the num-
ber of those who it were to be wished could have an
immediate trial and punishment. Isaac Ogden, in
particular, is one of the most barefaced, impudent
fellows that ever came under my observation. He
openly acknowledged himself a subject of the king of
Great Britain; and flatly refused to give any satis-
faction to some questions that were put to him re-
specting one Moses Nichols, an emissary from the
enemy; assigning no other reason for his refusal,
than that he had given his word to be silent.

A spirit of disaffection shows itself with so much
boldness and violence in different parts of this State,
that it is the ardent wish of his Excellency, that no
delay, which can be avoided, might be used in making
examples of some of the most atrocious offenders.
If something be not speedily done, to strike a terror
into the disaffected, the consequences must be very
disagreeable.

Among others, all security to the friends of the
American cause will be destroyed; and the natural
effect of this, will be an extinction of zeal in seconding
and promoting it. Their attachment, if it remain, will
be a dead, inactive, useless principle. And the disaf-
fected, emboldened by impunity , will be encouraged to
proceed to the most dangerous and pernicious lengths.

Private Correspondence 63

TO WILLIAM DUER.'

Headquarters, Morristown, 6th May, 1777.

Sir:

The bearer of this is Mr. Malmedi,' a French gentle-
man of learning, abilities, and experience. I believe
he thinks himself entitled to preferment, and comes
to Congress for that purpose. At the recommenda-
tion of General Lee, he was made Brigadier-General
by the State of Rhode Island, and filled the station to
the satisfaction of his employers, as appears by a
letter from Governor Cook,^ speaking of him in the
highest terms of approbation. This has led him to
hope that he shoiild be adopted by the Continent on
an equal footing. But in this he will no doubt be
mistaken, as there are many insuperable objections
to such an event. Among others, it would tend to
raise the expectations of the Frenchmen in general,
already too high, to a pitch, which it would be im-
possible to gratify or endure. It might not however,
be amiss to do whatever propriety would warrant to
keep him in good humor, as he is a man of sense and

1 Col. Wm. Duer, bom in England in 1747, served with Lord Clive in
India, and came to New York in 1768. He warmly espoused the
patriot side, married Catherine Alexander, daughter of William Alex-
ander, commonly known as Lord Stirling, and was a life-long friend of
Hamilton, who stood by him and helped him in the business mis-
fortunes which befell him, and which cost Hamilton deep anxiety.
Col. Duer figures often in this correspondence. He was at this time on
the New York Committee of Safety, and was soon after chosen to
Congress.

2 Mr. Malmedi was appointed Colonel on the Continental establish-
ment. He thought the rank below his deserts, and was one of the
many French officers who harassed Washington on this score. See
Writings of Washington, iv., 419.

3 Nicholas Cook, Governor of Rhode Island from 1775 to 1778.

64 Alexander Hamilton

merit. I think policy would justify the advancing
him a step higher than his former Continental rank.

Congress in the beginning went upon a very in-
judicious plan with respect to Frenchmen. To every
adventurer that came, without even the shadow of
credentials, they gave the rank of field officers. This
circumstance, seconding the aspiring disposition
natural to those people, carried the expectations of
those who had really any pretensions to the character
of officers to a length that exceeds all the bounds of
moderation. As it was impossible to pursue this
impolitic plan, the Congress have begun to retrench
their excessive liberality; and the consequence has
been universal disgust and discontent.

It would, perhaps, be injurious, as the French are
much addicted to national punctilio, to run into the
opposite extreme to that first embraced, and by that
means create a general clamor and dissatisfaction.
Policy suggests the propriety of discriminating a few
of the most deserving, and endeavoring to keep them
in temper, even by gratifying them beyond what they
can reasonably pretend to. This will enable us to
shake off the despicable part with safety, and to turn
a deaf ear to the exorbitant demands of the many.
It will be easily believed in France that their want
of merit occasioned their want of success, from the
extraordinary marks of favor that have been con-
ferred on others; whereas, the imited voice of com-
plaint from the whole, might make ill impressions in
their own country, which it is not our interest should
exist.

We are already greatly embarrassed with the

Private Correspondence 65

Frenchmen among us, and, from the genius of the
people, shall continue to be so. It were to be wished
that our agents in France, instead of courting them
to come out, were instructed to give no encourage-
ment but where they could not help it ; that is, where
applications were made to them by persons, counten-
anced and supported by great men, whom it would
be impolitic to disoblige. Be assured, sir, we shall
never be able to satisfy them ; and they can be of no
use to us, at least for some time. Their ignorance of
our language, of the disposition of the people, the
resources and deficiencies of the country — their own
habits and tempers; all these are disqualifications
that put it out of their power to be of any real use
or service to us. You will consider what I have said
entirely as my own sentiments.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

Headquarters, Morristown, May 7, 1777.

I thank you for the favor of the pamphlet ' con-
taining your form of government, which, without
flattery, T consider as more judicious and digested
than any thing of the kind that has yet appeared
among us; though I am not so unreserved in my
approbation as to think it free from defects. While
I view it in the main as a wise and excellent system,
I freely confess it appears to me to have some faults

' The Constitution of New York was at this time under consideration,
and Morris was on the committee engaged in making a draft, and had
made some very able speeches on the subject in the Provincial Conven-
tion or Congress.

VOL. IX.— 5.

66 Alexander Hamilton

which I cotild wish did not exist. Were it not too
late to discuss particulars for any useful end, or could
my judgment have any weight in a matter which is
the work of so many far more able and discerning
than I can pretend to be, I should willingly descend
to an exhibition of those parts I dislike and my
reasons for disapproving. But, in the present
situation of things, it would be both useless and
presumptuous.

I congratulate you on the late important arrivals
to the eastward. We consider them as immense
acquisitions. Did I not suppose you must be pos-
sessed of the same particulars we have at head-
quarters, I would transmit those we have to you. I
congratulate you also on the Danbury expedition.
The stores destroyed there have been purchased at a
pretty high price to the enemy. The spirit of the
people on the occasion does them great honor — is a
pleasing proof that they have lost nothing of that
primitive zeal with which they began the contest,
and will be a galling discouragement to the enemy
from repeating attempts of the kind. Such an oppo-
sition, under such circumstances, was not to be
expected. By every account, both from our friends
and from themselves, they cannot have sustained a
loss of less than five hundred killed, wounded, and
taken. An honest, intelligent lad, a prisoner with
them, who made his escape two or three days ago,
informs us that he saw three vessels loaded with
wounded. He was permitted to look into the hold
of two of them, and affirms there could not be fewer
than forty in each. He attempted to inspect the

Private Correspondence 67

contents of the third, but was hindered by the sen-
tries. He also informs us that there were loud wail-
ings and lamentations among the soldiers' women on
the occasion, and that the people of New York con-
sidered the affair in the light of a defeat to the British
troops.

From some late appearances, my opinion is greatly
shaken as to the enemy's intention to move against
Philadelphia. I begin to fear they will disappoint us
with a contrary movement. The General is aware of
this possibility, and will do every thing he can to
provide for the event: and I trust the convention
of your State will co-operate with him by every
exertion in their power. By intelligence received
yesterday and to-day from Generals Putnam and
Lincoln at the outposts, we have reason to suspect
the enemy will soon evacuate Brunswick and push
for Amboy, whence they will no doubt embark for
some expedition by water. This may be either to
Philadelphia or up the North River; or, perhaps, the
appearances that indicate this may be only feints
to perplex and deceive us. The testimony of every
person that comes from them confirms this fact, that
their horses are in such miserable condition as to
render them incapable of any material operations by
land. If, therefore, proper care be taken wherever
they shall point their efforts to prevent their collect-
ing supplies of good horses among ourselves, I know
not how it will be possible for them to penetrate any
distance into the country. As far as it may depend
upon them, I hope the convention will attend to this
circumstance, and will take effectual measures to

68 Alexander Hamilton

put it out of their power to gain such supplies in any
part of your State towards which they may direct
their movements. Nothing particular from Europe.
Doctor Lee,' indeed, writes that, from the face of
affairs there, a war cannot be postponed longer than
three months. He thinks, however, the English will
be able to get a reinforcement this year of 8,000 or
10,000 Germans. If I mistake not, he says they have
already engaged them and sent transports to take
them in.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

Headquarters, Morristown, May 12, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I have received the pleasure of your favor of
yesterday's date. The reasons you assign for the
interval of silence on your part are admitted as
sufficient, though I regret that the principal one
exists — the combination of the Tories for a general
insurrection. But, perhaps, on the scale of policy, I
ought rather to congratulate you on the event. That
there are too many Tories in your State, as well as
in several others, is a fact too well known. That
they should confederate themselves for active pur-
poses of revolt and disaffection, when once dis-
covered, is desirable, because it arms the vindictive
justice of the State, and will justify, in the eyes of
all the world, a radical blow at the faction. Were it
not that we have seen so many similar instances, that

I Arthur Lee, of Virginia, brother of Richard Henry Lee, at this time
one of our agents in Europe.

Private Correspondence 69

only prove the temerity and folly of the Tories, I
should consider this as a presumptive argument, that
the enemy intend your way.

It seems now fully the opinion of our generals, that
the last year's project for uniting the two armies, by
the conquest of your State, will be prosecuted this
campaign. To confirm this supposition, all the later
intelligence we have received from the enemy strongly
indicates an intention to evacuate the Jerseys; and
't is thought there will be very great obstacles to an
attempt on Philadelphia, by way of the Delaware;
't is concluded that the North River must be the
object. And, upon this principle. Generals Greene
and Knox, in whom his Excellency has great con-
fidence, are sent to examine the situation of things
with you, and in concert with General McDougal,
who is in equal estimation, to adopt every proper
expedient for putting you in the best state of defence.
They set out this day.

If the enemy do not, in fact, aim at Philadelphia,
they have been very artful in throwing out appear-
ances well calculated to deceive ; and which, though
they have not had so full an efEect as at any time to
cause our cautious General to lose sight of the other
object which 't is now imagined they propose to
themselves, yet they have so far deceived as to beget
pretty universally the opinion they wished to impose.
But, for my own part, though I am staggered in my
conjectures, yet I by no means give up my first sup-
position. I think it very probable they are only
evacuating the Jerseys to be out of danger of an
attack from us, which they have reason to fear from

70 Alexander Hamilton

the increasing strength of our army, and mean to
encamp on Staten Island till reinforced. It would
be madness in them, weak as they are in numbers, to
risk all in any capital attempt, and I am confident
they will not do it unless they have a desperate game
to play, and have no expectation of reinforcements.
Such a conduct would be contrary to every principle
of war or policy. Howe cannot take the field with
more than eight thousand men ; let him go where he
will, the probability of defeat will be strong, and the
consequences of it would be absolutely fatal. How
can he hope to penetrate far with so small a force,
and with such a miserable supply of horses to convey
his artillery and baggage? It seems to me, too, with
respect to the supposed design upon your State, if it
really existed, they would have taken care to have
seized your forts, and other important posts, when
they might have been apprised you were in no con-
dition to defend them.

We have lately had one or two little skirmishes
here. A party from Boimdbrook beat up some of the
enemy's advanced pickets from Brunswick. An at-
tack was made upon their pickets near Bonhamtown.
We have no regular account of this matter ; but what
we have had is to this purport : *' That a party under
Col. Cook attacked one of their pickets and drove it
in ; that it was reinforced and sallied out again, and
was beaten in a second time; that it received a
second reinforcement and made a second sally ; and
that Gen. Maxwell, who conducted the affair, per-
ceiving the matter growing too serious by continual
succors coming to them from Brunswick and Amboy,

Private Correspondence 71

thought it best to retire which he did in good order —
the enemy keeping at a respectful distance during
the whole time of the retrogradation." 'T is said
we have lost between twenty and thirty killed and
wounded, and a few stragglers taken ; and 't is also
asserted that some of our officers counted nineteen
dead bodies of the enemy on the field. The Royal
Highlanders had taken possession of a wood, by way
of ambuscade, out of which they were expelled by
our troops. Here, I believe, the principal loss was
sustained on both sides.

P. S. — I thank you for the inclosures of every kind.
I believe you have not received a letter I wrote a few
days ago, giving my idea of your Constitution, with
which, on a second inspection, I am better pleased
than at first. You will oblige me by forwarding the
inclosed.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

Headquarters, Morristown, May 19, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I this moment received the favor of your letter of
the 1 6th instant.

I partly agree and partly disagree with you re-
specting the deficiencies of your Constitution. That
there is a want of vigor in the executive, I believe,
will be found true. To determine the qualifications
proper for the chief executive magistrate requires the
deliberate wisdom of a select assembly, and cannot
be safely lodged with the people at large. That in-
stability is inherent in the nature of popular govern-

72 Alexander Hamilton

ments I think very disputable ; unstable democracy,
is an epithet frequently in the mouths of politicians ;
but I believe that from a strict examination of the
matter — from the records of history, it will be found
that the fluctuations of governments in which the
popular principle has borne a considerable sway, have
proceeded from its being compounded with other
principles; — and from its being made to operate
in an improper channel. Compound governments,
though they may be harmonious in the beginning,
will introduce distinct interests, and these interests
will clash, throw the State into convulsions, and pro-
duce a change or dissolution. When the deliberative
or judicial powers are vested wholly or partly in the
collective body of the people, you must expect error,
confusion, and instability. But a representative
democracy, where the right of election is well se-
cured and regulated, and the exercise of the legisla-
tive, executive, and judiciary authorities is vested in
select persons, cho^eruxgally and not nominally by
the people, will, in my opinion, be most likely to be
happy, regular, and durable. That the complexity
of your Legislature will occasion delay and dilatori-
ness, is evident, and I fear may be attended with a
much greater evil; — as expedition is not very ma-
terial in making laws, especially when the govern-
ment is well digested and matured by time. The
evil I mean is, that in time your Senate, from the
very name, and from the mere circumstance of its
being a separate member of the Legislature, will be
liable to degenerate into a body purely aristocratical.
And I think the danger of an abuse of power from

Private Correspondence 73

a simple legislature, would not be very great in a
government where the equality and fulness of popu- __
lar representation is so wisely provided for as in
yours. On the whole, though I think there are the
defects intimated, I think your government far the
best that we have yet seen, and capable of givin^-^'
long and substantial happiness to the people. Ob-
jections to it should be suggested with great caution
and reserve.

Nothing particular in the military line. The
enemy still in the Jerseys, though they have been
some time sending away their stores, baggage, etc.,
and are raising new works of defence. All this may
be preparatory to an evacuation at all events, and
they may be only intended to pave the way for a
retreat, in case of an attack or any accident.

Advices from the West Indies, that have an ap-
pearance of authenticity, mention a French vessel
bound for the continent, being taken by the British
frigate Perseus, and carried into Dominique; and a
remonstrance being made by the Governor of Martin-
ique, threatening reprisals in case of a detention.
Nay, some accounts say he has actually seized all the
English vessels in the harbor of Martinique, and im-
prisoned their seamen till restitution shall be made.
If these accounts be true, they are important, and may
be considered as an earnest of more general hostility.

Perhaps your next favor will find me at Bound-
brook. Headquarters will soon be moved there.
Our family seem desirous of cultivating a closer
acquaintance with the enemy than we have had the
pleasure of for some time past.

74 Alexander Hamilton

Relying on your punctuality in favoring me with
any important intelligence your way, I am likely to
lose a beaver hat, which was staked against the truth
of the report of the stores at St. John's being de-
stroyed. If you forget me in future, I will certainly
excommunicate you.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

Middle Brook Camp, June 2, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I received your favor per express, and as the
absence of my former respectable correspondents has
made a change necessary, I am happy that you have
been substituted in their room.

Except a body of militia at and about Pompton,
and a few detachments of observation, our whole
army is now collected at two points ; the main body
here, and a division under General Sullivan at Prince-
ton. Though this alteration of circimistances takes
off in a great measure the restraints imposed upon the
enemy during the winter, gives them a more ample
field to range in, and exposes the country more to
their ravages, yet the measure is abundantly justified
by every wise military maxim. The rigor of the
season has been heretofore our chief security against
those advantages which might have been taken of our
dispersed state; and this dispersion was necessary
both for the conveniency of winter-quarters, and
with a view to confine and distress the enemy, which
was the most capital object we could then propose to
ourselves. It was also necessary by this method to

Private Correspondence 75

second the check to that torrent of influence which
their successes in the Jerseys had given them. Many-
other justifying reasons might be assigned, which I
doubt not you will easily conceive, and which it
would be indiscreet to commit to paper.

But now that a more active season is arrived, and
something of importance must be done on one side
or the other, it becomes our business to put ourselves
in the best posture both for defence and offence.
Common-sense dictates that the best way to effect
this is to collect our strength. In a collected state
we can best repel a general attack ; we can best make
one, if circumstances warrant it; and we can move
with greater expedition to disconcert any sudden
push not immediately upon us, which the enemy
are likely to make. It is needless to enlarge on a
subject which your own judgment will enable you
of itself to view in a just light.

As to the designs of the enemy, appearances are
so intricate, fluctuating, and seemingly inconsistent,
that it is difficult to form any certain conclusion from
them. Either they do not understand themselves,
and are very irresolute and fickle, or they very art-
fully manage matters to deceive us. I am rather
inclined to suppose the former. This, however, I
may say with tolerable certainty, that my ideas of
their intending to operate to the southward, derive
just support from such parts of their conduct lately
as are most intelligible. We have a variety of con-
curring intelligence that they have lately drawn
more troops into the Jerseys — that they have
brought over a large number of wagons, and all the

76 Alexander Hamilton

boats prepared for bridges, with several other par-
ticulars of less importance, all of which denote a
preparation to operate this way. Persons who have
been among them assert confidently that they mean
to attack us. But we are divided in sentiment as to
the probability of that, or of their making a forced
march to Philadelphia. If they act wisely, they will
neither attack us in our present situation, strongly
posted as we are, nor will they attempt to cross a
river, where they may certainly expect opposition in
front, and leaving at the same time a formidable
army in the rear. He should endeavor to draw us
from here and fight us upon more equal ground. But
after all, if he expects any timely reinforcements,
upon what rational principle can he risk his own
reputation and all the hopes of his cause, in an at-
tempt with his present force, so extremely important
and hazardous ? Perhaps he only means to get every
thing in readiness against the arrival of the reinforce-
ments looked for, that he may immediately com-
mence his operations. Things, however, will hardly
bear this construction. We are told that in seven-
teen sail lately arrived from Europe, there were about
2,000 raw recruits.

This from the deserters.

The enemy yesterday perpetrated a most barbarous
butchery upon a Lieutenant Martin of ours. He was
out with a scouting party and met some of the British
light-horse; his men, it is said quitted him. But
however other matters may be, 't is certain his dead
body was found most horribly mangled. He had not
a single bullet wound, but was hacked to pieces with

Private Correspondence T^

the sword; he had several cuts on his head, each of
which was sufficient to dispatch him, besides a num-
ber of more inconsiderable scars about his body and
hands. It is evident that the most wanton and un-
necessary cruelty must have been used towards him ;
for the greater part of his wounds must have been
given him when utterly out of a condition to resist.
This may be relied on as a fact, for I saw his corpse,
as did also every officer and soldier in camp that
chose it. The General sent him down to their lines
with a letter to Lord Comwallis, as an undeniable
evidence of their brutality ; but the letter was taken
from the flag and sent in ; the flag and the body not
permitted to pass their outposts.

TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON '

Headquarters, Camp at Middle Brook, June 28, 1777.

Dear Sir:

Yours of the 25th came to hand last night. Since
my last addressed to Mr. Morris, the enemy have been
trying a second experiment to tempt us to an engage-
ment, on equal terms of ground. Under the sup-
position of their intending to evacuate the Jerseys
immediately, in order to keep up the idea of a pursuit,
and to be in a posture to take advantage of any
critical movement that might present itself, to give

^ A leading patriot and a member of the well-known New York
family. He was a signer of the Declaration of Independence, for many-
years Chancellor of New York, and Minister to France from 1801 to
1804. At this time he was a member of the New York Constitutional
Convention.

78 Alexander Hamilton

them a blow; the chief part of our army, after their
retreat from Brunswick, was marched down to
Quibbletown, and parties detached thence further
towards the enemy. Finding this disposition take
place, and expecting that, elated by what had passed,
we might be willing to venture upon a general en-
gagement, which is Howe's only hope, he came out
with his whole army from Amboy, only on Thursday
morning, and made a forced march towards our left,
with design, if possible, to cut off some of our detach-
ments, particularly one under Lord Stirling; and,
probably, if we were not expeditious in regaining the
heights, to get there before us, by rapidly entering
the passes on our left. Lord Stirling's party was
near being surrounded; but after a smart skirmish
with the enemy's main body, made their retreat good
to Westfield, and ascended the pass of the mountains
back of the Scotch plains. The other parties, after
skirmishing on their flanks, came off to join the main
body, and take possession of the heights. The
enemy continued their march towards our left as far
as Westfield, and there halted. In the meantime, it
was judged prudent to return with the army to the
mountains, lest it should be their intention to get
into them, and force us to fight them on their own
terms. They remained at Westfield till the next day,
and perceiving their views disappointed, have again
returned to Amboy, plundering and burning as usual.
We had parties hanging about them on their re-
turn; but they were so much on their guard, no
favourable opportunity could be found of giving them
any material annoyance. Their loss we cannot ascer-

Private Correspondence 79

tain; and our own, in men, is inconsiderable, though
we have as yet received no returns of the missing. I
have no doubt they have lost more men than we ; but
unfortunately, I won't say from what cause, they got
three field-pieces from us, which will give them room
for vaporing, and embellish their excursion, in the
eyes of those who make every trifle a matter of im-
portance. It is not unlikely they will soon be out of
the Jerseys ; but where they will go to next is mere
matter of conjecture, for, as you observe, their con-
duct is so eccentric as to leave no certain grounds on
which to form a judgment of their intentions.

I know the comments that some people will make
on our Fabian conduct. It will be imputed either to
cowardice, or to weakness. But the more discerning,
I trust, will not find it difficult to conceive, that it
proceeds from the truest policy, and is an argument
neither of the one nor the other.

The liberties of America are an infinite stake. We
should not play a desperate game for it, or put it
upon the issue of a single cast of the die. The loss
of one general engagement may effectually ruin us,
and it would certainly be folly to hazard it, unless
our resources for keeping up an army were at an end,
and some decisive blow was absolutely necessary;
or unless our strength was so great as to give cer-
tainty of success. Neither is the case — America can
in all probability maintain its army for years, and our
numbers, though such as would give a reasonable
hope of success, are not such as should make us
entirely sanguine. A third consideration, did it
exist, might make it expedient to risk such an event

8o Alexander Hamilton

— the prospect of very great reinforcements to the
enemy; but every appearance contradicts this, and
affords all reason to believe they will get very incon-
siderable accessions of strength this campaign. All
the European maritime powers are interested for the
defeat of the British arms in America, and will never
assist them. A small part of Germany is disposed to
make a market of its troops, and even this seems not
over-fond of being drained any further. Many
springs may be put in motion even to put a stop to
this. The king of Prussia may, perhaps, without
much difficulty, be engaged to espouse views un-
friendly to the court of Britain, and a nod of his
would be sufficient to prevent all future German suc-
cors. He, as well as most other powers of Europe,
feels the necessity of commerce and a large maritime
force to be generally respectable. His situation,
until lately, has been unfavorable to this; but the
reduction of Poland, and the acquisition of Dantzig
in the Baltic, have put it very much in his power to
pursue commercial schemes ; and may tempt him to
be propitious to American independence. Russian
assistance is still infinitely more precarious; for be-
sides that it cannot be the true interest of that am-
bitious empire to put its troops to sale, it is at
present embroiled with the Turks, and will want all
its men to employ in its own wars. England herself,
from the nature of her policy, can furnish few soldiers,
and even those few can ill be spared to come to
America in the present hostile appearance of affairs
in Europe. On whatever side it is considered, no
great reinforcements are to be expected to the

Private Correspondence 8i

British army in America. It is therefore Howe's
business to make the most of his present strength;
and as he is not numerous enough to conquer and
garrison as he goes, his only hope hes in fighting us,
and giving a general defeat at one blow/

On our part we are continually strengthening our
political springs in Europe, and may every day look
for more effectual aids than we have yet received.
Our own army is continually growing stronger in
men, arms, and discipline: we shall soon have an
important addition of artillery, now on its way to
join us. We can maintain our present numbers good,
at least, by enlistments, while the enemy must
dwindle away; and at the end of the summer the
disparity between us will be infinitely great, and
facilitate any exertions that may be made to settle
the business with them. Their affairs will be grow-
ing worse, ours better; so that delay will ruin them.
It will serve to perplex and fret them, and precipitate
them into measures that we can turn to good account.
Our business then is to avoid a general engagement,
and to waste the enemy away by constantly goading
their sides in a desultory, teasing way.

In the meantime it is painful to leave a part of the
inhabitants a prey to their depredations; and it is
wounding to the feelings of a soldier, to see an
enemy parading before him and daring him to fight
which he is obliged to decline.

But a part must be sacrificed to the whole, and
passion must give way to reason. You will be sensible

' For a youth of twenty this is a rather remarkable analysis of the
condition of Europe.

VOL. IX. — 6.

82 Alexander Hamilton

that it will not be advisable to publish the senti-
ments contained in this letter as coming from me;
because this will make the enemy more fully ac-
quainted with our views; but it might not be amiss
to have them circulated, as those which ought to
govern the conduct of the army, in order to prepare
the minds of the people for what may happen, and
take off the disagreeable impressions our caution
may make.

TO DR. HUGH KNOX '

July, 1777.

* * * This event (the evacuation of Ticon-
deroga ') redounds very little to our credit. For if
the post was untenable, or required a larger number
of troops to defend it than could be spared for the
purpose, it ought long ago to have been foreseen and
given up. Instead of that, we have kept a large
quantity of cannon in it, and have been heaping
up very valuable magazines of stores and provisions
that, in the critical moment of defence, are aban-
doned and lost. This affair will be attended with
several evil consequences ; for besides the loss of our
stores, which we cannot well afford, it opens a new
and easy door by which to penetrate the northern
States. It will fiK the hitherto fluctuating disposi-
tion of the Indians in that quarter in their favor, and
expose the frontiers of the adjacent country to their

^ Dr. Hugh Knox, a worthy minister in the West Indies, who had
advised and helped Hamilton in his boyhood, and always remained his
warm admirer.

^J^iiy 5> 1777-

Private Correspondence 83

depredations. But though it is a misfortune we have
reason to lament, I dare say it will be regarded with
you as much more important than it really is, and
as materially endangering the success of our cause,
which is by no means the case. Our opposition is
at this time too well matured and has too great
stability to be shaken by an accident of that kind.
While we have a respectable army in the field, and
resources to feed, clothe, and arm them, we are safe.
We have had a force sufficient for the foregoing part
of the campaign to maintain such a superiority over
the main army of the enemy as effectually to hinder
them from attaining any of their purposes. And, to
the northward, with the reinforcements sent up to
succor the retreating garrison of Ticonderoga and the
militia flocking in from New England, I think there
is little doubt we have by this time a force adequate
to give Mr. Burgoyne a seasonable check. One good
effect will result from the misfortune, which is, that
it will stimulate the eastern States to greater exer-
tions than they might otherwise make.

By our last advices the enemy were in possession of
all the country between Ticonderoga and Fort George ;
and our army, nearly equal in number to them, were
about to take post somewhere between Fort Edward
and Saratoga.

The consequences of this northern affair will depend
much upon the part that Howe acts. If he were to
co-operate with Burgoyne it would demand our ut-
most efforts to counteract them. But if he should
go towards the southward, all or most of the advan-
tages of Burgoyne 's success will be lost. He will

84 Alexander Hamilton

either be obliged to content himself with the posses-
sion of Ticonderoga and the dependent fortresses, and
with carrying on a partisan war the rest of the cam-
paign, or he must precipitate himself into certain
ruin by attempting to advance into the country with
a very incompetent force.

Appearances lead us to suppose that Howe is fool
enough to meditate a southern expedition ; for he has
now altered his station at Staten Island, mentioned
above, and has fallen down to the Hook. Judging it
morally certain that there would be a co-operation
of the two armies, we thought it expedient to march
northerly ; and had accordingly reached within four-
teen miles of New Windsor, the place where we could
cross the North River without danger or interruption.
But this new movement of the enemy's fleet, has in-
duced us to return a few miles, and make a disposition
for marching southerly. We shall, however, be cau-
tious how we proceed on that course, lest nothing
more than a feint is intended, to divert us from the
real object.

If they go to the southward in earnest, they must
have the capture of Philadelphia in view; for there
is no other inducement. We shall endeavor to get
there in time to oppose them ; and shall have the
principal part of the Continental force, and a large
body of spirited militia, many of them, from their
services during the last campaign, pretty well inured
to arms, to make the opposition with. Yet I would
not have you to be much surprised if Philadelphia
should fall; for the enemy will doubtless go there
with a determination to succeed at all hazard; and

Private Correspondence 85

we shall not be able to prevent them, without risking
a general action, the expediency of which will de-
pend upon circumstances. If the militia turn out
with that zeal we have a right to expect, from their
conduct when the enemy made their last experiment
in the Jerseys, and were supposed to be going to
Philadelphia, we may do it without much incon-
venience. If they fall materially short of it, we
shall be obliged to confine ourselves to a skirmishing
opposition, which we cannot expect will be effectual.
It may be asked, If, to avoid a general engagement,
we give up objects of the first importance, what is
to hinder the enemy from carrying every important
point, and ruining us? My answer is, that our
hopes are not placed in any particular city or spot of
ground, but in the preserving a good army, furnished
with proper necessaries, to take advantage of favora-
ble opportunities, and waste and defeat the enemy
by piecemeal. Every new post they take, requires
a new division of their forces, and enables us to
strike with our united force against a part of theirs:
and such is their present situation, that another
Trenton affair will amount to a complete victory on
our part ; for they are at too low an ebb to bear an-
other stroke of the kind. Perhaps, before I may
have an opportunity of sending this, facts will un-
fold what I am now endeavoring to anticipate by
conjecture.

You will expect some animadversions on the tem-
per and views of the French nation. I presume you
are nearly as well acquainted with the assistance
they are giving us as I am, both by their intrigues in

86 Alexander Hamilton

foreign courts, and by supplies of every kind of war-
like stores and apparatus.

It does not admit of a doubt that they are inter-
ested to wish us success; and their conduct plainly
shows, they are willing to give us every aid essential
to our preservation. But it is natural they should
desire to do it with as much convenience to them-
selves as they can. I apprehend they are not over-
fond of plunging themselves into a war with England
if they can avoid it, and still answer the end they
have to pursue: and, indeed, from the evident re-
luctance shown on the part of the latter, to do any
thing that may bring about such an event, it be-
comes extremely difficult to draw her into it. The
conclusion we may make, is, that France will not
wish to force England into a war, unless she finds
our affairs require it absolutely; and England will
not enter into one, till she is compelled to do it.

My best respects to all friends ; and I beg you will
believe me to be, with unabated regard, etc.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

Headquarters, Morristown, July 6, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I received your favour of the 4th, by express. If
I recollect how far my last went, it did not announce
the return of the enemy from Westfield to Amboy,
nor their evacuation of that place since. After rest-
and refreshing themselves a night, they decamped
the following day, and proceeded to Amboy, from

Private Correspondence 87

which place they went to Staten Island as expedi-
tiously as they could; where they still remain.

The news from the northward wore so serious a
face, that our generals thought the enemy were
about to operate in earnest against our posts in that
quarter; and, as supposing this the case, General
Howe might certainly be expected to co-operate by
way of the North River, it was judged necessary to
move the main body of the army from Middle Brook
to Morristown ; to advance a division imder General
Sullivan to Pompton, and another under General
Parsons as far as Peekskill. A brigade at that port,
under General Nixon, was ordered, as soon as Par-
sons' division anived near its destination, to proceed
immediately as a reinforcement to the northern
army. This disposition is deemed advantageous to
prevent the success of a coup de main on the High-
land passes, and not inconsistent with a proper at-
tention to Philadelphia, should the northern alarm
prove nothing more than a diversion, and Howe re-
turn to the charge that way.

I am loath to risk a conjecture about Mr. Howe.
He is such an unintelligible gentleman, that no rule
of interpretation can possibly be found out by which
to unravel his designs. If he acted like a man of
sense, he would wait quietly on Staten Island, and
there concentrate all his forces. He would draw
around him all the men that could be spared from
Canada, and all that are now at Rhode Island. With
these, and the reinforcements he may receive from
Europe, he would make a point of forcing us, by
some means or other to an action. In this his only

88 Alexander Hamilton

hope lies. If he could defeat our army and improve
the moment of success, he would go very near effect-
ing his purpose ; but, let him go to the northward or to
the southward, every new post he takes weakens his
main body and makes it the more liable to be ruined
by our collective strength. Any object short of our
army is a bad one, and that plan is the worst, where,
by a division of his forces, he runs the hazard, in case
of an accident either way, of having his whole scheme
overturned.

We have different accounts of the present situation
of his army. Some tell us that the whole is now en-
camped on Staten Island; others, that the greater
part of the Hessians are on board the ships. By
some sailors who came from them yesterday, we are
told that the ships are taking in water and provisions
for two months, and that conveniences for transport-
ing horses are fitting up in them. All this is rather
vague, and may or may not be true.

Their flourishes in the Jerseys, I believe, cannot
have cost them less than six or seven hundred men.
We have not lost above a hundred. This is the best
way to ruin them without risking any thing.

Our present situation is embarrassing. Their
ships give them a vast advantage, and we shall
probably be much puzzled when they begin their op-
erations again. We shall, however, act cautiously,
and do the best we can. We are anxiously waiting
for northern intelligence.

Please forward the inclosed to General Schuyler
per first opportunity.

Private Correspondence 89

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS
Headquarters, Smith's Clove,' July 22, 1777.

Dear Sir:

Your favor of the eighteenth from Saratoga
reached me yesterday. Your pronouncing Fort
Edward among the other forts indefensible, surprises
me a Httle, as it is entirely contrary to the representa-
tions of several gentlemen of judgment, who have
had an opportunity of seeing and considering its
situation ; by whom we have been taught to believe
that it would be an excellent post, at least for check-
ing and retarding Burgoyne's progress. I agree
with you that our principal strength in the quarter
you are, will be in the forests and natural strength of
the country, and in the want of forage, provisions,
carriages, etc., in which the enemy may easily be
thrown, by taking away what there are of those
articles, which, you observe, have never been in
great abundance.

I am doubtful whether Burgoyne will attempt to
penetrate far, and whether he will not content him-
self with harassing our back settlements by parties
assisted by the savages, who, it is to be feared, will
pretty generally be tempted by the enemy's late suc-
cesses to confederate in hostilities against us.

This doubt arises from some appearances that in-
dicate a southern movement of General Howe's army,
which, if it should really happen, will certainly be a
barrier against any further impressions of Burgoyne;

' Sussex County, New Jersey; Washington calls this place simply
"The Clove," the name which it bears to-day.

QO Alexander Hamilton

for it cannot be supposed he would be rash enough
to plunge into the bosom of the country without an
expectation of being met by General Howe. Things
must prove very averse to us indeed, should he make
such an attempt, and not be ruined by it. I confess,
however, that the appearances I allude to do not
carry a full evidence in my mind, because they are
opposed by others of a contradictory kind, and be-
cause I cannot conceive upon what principle of
common- sense or military propriety Howe can be
running away from Burgoyne to the southward.

It is much to be wished he may, even though
it should give him the possession of Philadelphia,
which by our remoteness from it, may very well
happen. In this case we may not only, if we think
proper, retaliate, by aiming a stroke at New York;
but we may come upon him with the greatest part
of our collective force, to act against that part which
is under him. We shall then be certain that Bur-
goyne cannot proceed, and that a small force of
Continental troops will be sufficient for that partisan
war which he must carry on the rest of the campaign.

A small force will also be sufficient to garrison
the posts in the Highlands, and prevent any danger
there; so that we shall be able to bring nearly the
whole of the Continental army against Mr. Howe.
The advantages of this are obvious. Should he be
satisfied with the splendor of his acquisition, and
shut himself up in Philadelphia, we can ruin him by
confinement. Should he leave a garrison there and
go forward, we can either fall upon that or his main
body, diminished as it will be by such a measure,

Private Correspondence 91

with our whole force. There will, however, be many
disagreeable consequences attending such an event,
amongst which the foremost is the depreciation of
our currency, which, from the importance in which
Philadelphia is held, cannot fail to ensue.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

Headquarters, Coryell's Ferry, July 29, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I have the pleasure of your favor of the 25th.
I cannot be induced to think the enemy are so
numerous as you apprehend, and would place no de-
pendence on what is said either by deserters or pris-
oners, further than as it respects their own company,
nor even that with regard to prisoners in general, who
commonly have their cue, as the phrase is, and know
very well how to manufacture stories calculated to
serve the purposes of the side they belong to. If we
may judge at all from the state of the British and
foreign regiments in Howe's army, or the propor-
tion of recruits they have had this year, we cannot
but believe the representations you mention greatly
exaggerated. Though the northern army have not
suffered much by action, they have probably suf-
fered more by sickness than the southern ; for many
accounts agree that they have been ver}^ sickly, and
particularly, that there was a great mortality among
them while lying at the Isle of Noix. From the esti-
mate of the first prisoner, they must have been
greatly reduced by some means or other; for it ap-
pears that before his company had been augmented

92 Alexander Hamilton

by the twenty-four foreigners, it was only twenty-
six strong; and it is very improbable it should have
had so large an augmentation, for I am morally cer-
tain the regiments under Howe have not had fifty
men each as recruits, and I see no reason to suppose
Burgoyne's could have had so much better luck.
Eight companies, at twenty-six men each, amount
to two hundred and eight. Suppose each regiment
to have received one hundred recruits, which, by
every rule of comparison, must be more than the
truth ; this brings a regiment to about three hundred
men. Ten regiments, at three hundred each, amount
to three thousand, the number of the British troops
in Canada. Again, if I am not mistaken, four thou-
sand was the allotment of foreign troops for the
northern department. As the sickness spoken of
fell chiefly upon them, they, in all probability, lost
more in that way than they have gained in recruits.
But, even if this were not the case, they cannot
exceed the original number — four thousand added
to three thousand make seven thousand. Besides
these, there are the grenadiers and light infantry.
Of these there cannot be above eighteen companies
each, which, allowing them to contain every one
fifty men, amount to eighteen hundred — and this
brings them to about eight thousand eight hundred
men in their whole force of British and foreign troops.
Of these, at least one sixth must be unfit for duty,
by every calculation, which reduces the number of
men fit for the field to about seven thousand five
hundred. Part of these must be left in Canada, if it
were for no other purpose than to guard their maga-

Private Correspondence 93

zines, and for other duty of that kind. Nor coidd
they with safety commit the charge of those things
to the Canadians, many of whom are notoriously
disaffected, and would be very likely to destroy in-
stead of preserve them. From this view, which I
verily believe is too favorable to them, they cannot
bring more than between six and seven thousand
British and foreign troops to act out of Canada.
Out of these six or seven thousand, a considerable
part must be left to garrison Ticonderoga, and se-
cure their rear in case of accidents; for they could
not without madness attempt to advance, and leave
the posts behind them in a defenceless state; and
they may be obliged to increase their attention to
this matter by keeping a body of men somewhere
about the Grants,' which has been recommended.
When this last deduction is made, Burgoyne cannot
advance with more than between five and six thou-
sand men, to suppose him to act with his whole col-
lective force; except Canadians and Indians, who
are not, by any accounts, numerous.

Let us now take a view of our own force. When
Glover's brigade gets up, and the recruits for the
regiments there, now on their march, arrive. General
Schuyler will have about five thousand Continental
troops. Surely the Eastern States cannot sleep so
soundly, when the danger is so imminent, but that
they will reinforce him with eight or ten thousand
militia. If this happens, and he cannot stop Gen-
eral Burgoyne 's progress, it must proceed from other
causes than the want of men. With about the same

^ The New Hampshire Grants in what is now Vermont.

94 Alexander Hamilton

army last year, General Washington kept Howe with
sixteen or seventeen thousand men at bay.

Perhaps it may be said, there will not be time to
collect this force, as the enemy are advancing with
very great rapidity. I am much mistaken if there
will not be abundant time. The nature of the
ground; the difficulty of transporting the immense
quantity of baggage, provisions, etc., necessary to
accompany an army of five thousand men pene-
trating an enemy's country; the want of wagons for
the purpose; the impediments thrown in their way
by cutting up the roads — all these obstacles will re-
tard their march much more than is at first sight
imagined, and will give full time to prepare them a
good reception.

On the whole, I am clearly of opinion, that unless
Howe co-operates with Burgoyne against your State,
it has very little to fear ; and I even doubt, if he goes
to the southward, whether Burgoyne will attempt
to penetrate far. At present there is every appear-
ance of a southern expedition. Seventy sail of the
enemy's fleet have been seen passing by Little Egg
Harbor, making short tacks towards the Capes of
Philadelphia. Three divisions of the army are ar-
rived here and at Howel's Ferry, four miles up. One
is coming on by way of Princeton, etc. Another
coming after us by way of Morristown. I wish this
last to halt there. Two brigades more have been
ordered to cross the North River and wait further
orders. We shall not, however, pass the Deleware till
we hear of the arrival of the enemy in the Capes of
Philadelphia. Nor will those two brigades be ordered

Private Correspondence 95

on till the same event takes place. We shall act the
most cautious part possible in our circumstances.
I communicated your letter to the General. He
agrees with me in point of the enemy's numbers.
With respect to animating the Eastern States, he
has written the most urgent letter to their several
assemblies, which I am in hopes will answer the end
you propose from sending persons to each of them.

It were to be wished your forts and ships were
well supplied with cannon; but it is wholly out of
the General's line to strip the ships to the eastward
of their cannon for that purpose. If your Conven-
tion were to make application to the Congress or
Board of War, it might succeed; but I should have
very little hope of it.

TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON
Headquarters, Camp at Cross Roads, Aug. i8, 1777.

My Dear Sir:

I most sincerely and heartily sympathize with you
in the distress and danger under which your State
is laboring at this critical period. I lament its mis-
fortunes, as they are wounds to the common cause,
as they more nearly interest those for whom I feel
the wannest regard, and as they are suffered by a
State which I consider in a great measure as my
political parent. I wish any thing in my power
could contribute to its relief.

I am fully sensible, with you, that Mr. Burgoyne's
successes involve the most important consequences
to America, and that a further progress in your State

96 Alexander Hamilton

may bring on all the evils you delineate, and most
deeply affect the common cause. I agree with you
that the loss of your State will be a more afflicting
blow to America than any that could be struck by
Mr. Howe to the southward; and I can assure you
it is regarded in the same light by others whose
thoughts of the matter are of much more conse-
quence than my own. I may also add that his
Excellency has afforded the northern army all the
assistance he could in his circumstances give, with
the least degree of propriety, and were you as well ac-
quainted with those circumstances as I am, you would
be perfectly convinced of the truth of what I assert.
Though I have differed, and still differ, and, I be-
lieve, on the most substantial grounds, with you, as
to the numbers of the enemy, yet I clearly perceive,
from the spirit reigning in our army, and from the
unpardonable backwardness of your eastern neigh-
bors, that you have every thing to fear, notwith-
standing your most strenuous exertions, which, to
the honor of your State, are justly admired, as far
surpassing what might naturally be expected from
you under so many discouragements. I am so
thoroughly impressed with your true situation, that
I am fully of opinion, if Burgoyne is not speedily
checked in his career, he will become the first object
to this army, especially if Howe operates so far to
the southward, as every appearance seems to indi-
cate. Charleston is now thought to be the place of
his destination. He has been seen passing Sino-
puxent,' steering southward, twelve days ago; and,

^ Sinopuxent Bay on the coast of Maryland.

Private Correspondence 97

as he has not been since heard of, 't is concluded
he must be bound pretty far in that course, and no
object short of Charleston is supposed at all worthy
his attention. However common sense is against
Mr. Howe's going so far to the southward, facts are
so strongly in favor of it, that we must give credit to
them. It is an inadmissible supposition, that he
can be keeping a large fleet so long at sea merely as a
feint, or that he would steer so far out of his way, if
he really intended to operate to the northward; the
more as the season is at hand when he would be liable
to heavy gusts on the southern shores and contrary
winds on his return.

If he goes so far southward, we cannot think of
following him with this army ; and if Burgoyne con-
tinues to penetrate, we must find means to stop him.
This will point out the propriety of uniting this with
the northern army, and falling upon him with their
joint force ; and perhaps nothing is more to be wished
than that affairs should run into this train.

Before this reaches you, you will be informed that
two regiments have gone from Peekskill to reinforce
the northern army, and that Morgan's corps of
riflemen are on their march for the same purpose.
They left Trenton yesterday morning, and as they
march light, and vessels are ordered to be ready
waiting for them at Peekskill, they will soon be at
the place of their destination. It has been my wish
and endeavor for some time past that this corps
might be sent to your assistance. I expect much
from them; they are a picked corps, well-used to
rifles and to wood-fights, commanded by officers of

q8 Alexander Hamilton

distinguished bravery, and have been very service-
able in frequent skirmishes with the enemy. I dare
say these people will soon chastise the forwardness
of the Indians, and I should not be surprised if, after
a little time, they make them desert their British
friends. Their known inconstancy and want of per-
severance give great reason to hope a few drub-
bings will exceedingly discourage them and send the
greatest part of them home. From every account,
I am led to believe our misfortunes are greatly owing
to a panic dread of the Indian. If this be so, the
presence of Morgan's corps will not fail to have the
most happy effect. It would be well to propagate
through the coimtry and army such ideas of this corps
as will tend to revive the spirits of both inhabitants
and soldiers. If their number, which is about five
hundred, should be exaggerated it would do no harm.
But of all things, my dear sir, let every topic be care-
fully avoided that may tend to breed jealousies
between this corps and the northern troops. Such
jealousies have been, are, and will be more detri-
mental to our affairs than any thing besides.
I communicated your letter to his Excellency.

P. S. — Your express not calling on his return was
the sole reason of your not receiving a letter from
me ; I had written one to go by him.

His Excellency desires his particular respects to
you, and assures you that nothing in his power will
be left undone for your assistance.

Private Correspondence 99

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

Headquarters, Wilmington, Sept. i, 1777.

Dear Sir:

Agreeable to the intention of the council, I have
delivered their inclosed letter to his Excellency, who,
after perusing it, has sealed and forwarded it to Mr.
Hancock.

The relieving Fort Schuyler is a very happy and
important event, and will concur with the two happy
strokes given by Herkimer and Stark, to reverse the
face of affairs and turn the scale against Mr. Bur-
goyne. I hope Captain Montgomery's suggestions
may be right as to his being obliged to advance ; but
I fancy, if he once thinks it unsafe, he will not be
bound by such an empty punctilio as to risk the de-
struction of his army. As General Howe is now
fairly sat down to the southward, the eastern States,
no longer under any apprehensions from him, will be
disposed, I am in hopes, to exert their whole force;
and if they do, I shall wonder at it if Mr. Burgoyne
advances with impunity.

Before this reaches you, you will have heard of
General Howe's coming into Chesapeake Bay, where
he has landed his whole army, within about four
miles of the head of Elk; a day or two after his land-
ing, he marched from his first position and extended
his van as far as Green Hills. He still lies there in a
state of inactivity, in a great measure, I believe, from
the want of horses to transport his baggage and
stores. It seems he sailed with only about three
weeks' provender, and was six at sea; this has occa-
sioned the death of a great many of his horses, and

loo Alexander Hamilton

has made skeletons of the rest. He will be obliged
to collect a supply from the neighboring country
before he can move, unless he should be disposed to
make a more hazardous movement than he would
ever be able to justify except by a degree of success
he has no right to expect.

The main body of our army is encamped on the
heights of Wilmington, so as to cover the town. We
have strong parties of light troops and militia ad-
vanced towards the enemy, who have frequent skir-
mishes with them of little consequence, and often
pick up a few prisoners. We have taken at least
seventy since they landed, and have had thirty
deserters. This country does not abound in good
posts. It is intersected by such an infinity of roads,
and is so little mountainous, that it is impossible to
find a spot not liable to capital defects. The one we
now have is, all things considered, the best we could
find; but there is no great dependence to be put
upon it. The enemy will have Philadelphia if they
dare make a bold push for it, unless we fight them a
pretty general action. I opine we ought to do it,
and that we shall beat them soundly if we do. The
-militia seem pretty generally stirring. Our army is
in high health and spirits. We shall, I hope, have
twice the enemy's numbers. I would not only fight
them, but I would attack them; for I hold it an
established maxim, that there is three to one in
favor of the party attacking.

Private Correspondence loi

TO THE HONORABLE JOHN HANCOCK PRESIDENT OF

CONGRESS

September i8, 1777.

Sir:

If Congress have not left Philadelphia they ought
to do it immediately without fail ; for the enemy
have the means of throwing a party this night into
the city. I just now passed the Valley Forge — in
doing which a party of the enemy came down and
fired upon us in the boat, by which means I lost my
horse — one man was killed, and another wounded.
The boats were abandoned, and will fall into their
hands. I did all I could to prevent this, but to no
purpose.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

September 18, 1777, 9 o'clock at night.

Sir:

I did myself the honor to write you a hasty line
this evening, giving it as my opinion that the city
was no longer a place of safety for you. I write you
again, lest that letter should not get to hand. The
enemy are on the road to Swedes Ford, the main
body about four miles from it. They sent a party
this evening to Daviser's ferry, which fired upon
me and some others in crossing it, killed one man,
wounded another, and disabled my horse.

They came on so suddenly, that one boat was left
adrift on the other side, which will of course fall into
their hands; and, by the help of that, they will get
possession of another, which was abandoned by
those who had the direction of it, and left afloat, in

I02 Alexander Hamilton

spite of every thing I could do to the contrary. These
two boats will convey fifty men across at a time, so
that in a few hours they may throw over a large
party, perhaps sufficient to overmatch the militia
who may be between them and the city. This rend-
ers the situation of Congress extremely precarious,
if they are not on their guard; my apprehensions
for them are great, though it is not improbable they
may not be realized.

The most cogent reasons oblige me to join the army
this night, or I should have waited upon you myself.
I am in hopes our anny will be up with the enemy
before they pass Schuylkill: if they are, something
serious will ensue.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Philadelphia, Sept. 22, 1777.

Sir:

I left camp last evening, and came to the city to
superintend the collection of blankets and clothing
for the army. Mr. Lovell ' sends to inform me that
there is an express going off to Congress; and I do
myself the honor to communicate a brief state of
things when I left camp. The enemy moved yes-
terday, from where they lay opposite to Valley Forge,
etc., higher up the river, on their old scheme of gain-
ing our right. I don't know precisely where they
halted; but our army was preparing to move up
also, to counteract them.

I am this morning told they marched about twelve

I James Lovell of Massachusetts, at this time member of Congress.

Private Correspondence 103

o'clock at night for that purpose. The general
opinion was that the enemy would attempt crossing
this day ; every appearance justified the supposition.

We had intelligence that the enemy had, the
night before last, surprised Generals Smallwood and
Wayne, and consequently dispersed them, after a
small opposition. The loss, it is said, was not great :
and our troops were re-assembling fast at the Red
Lion. This seems to have been a bad look out, and
is somewhat disconcerting.

By a letter from General McDougal, received this
morning, it appears he was, on the twentieth, in the
morning, at Second River, just setting out on his
march toward Woodbridge. He is pressing forward
with all possible expedition. The troops were pretty
well refreshed, and in good spirits.

TO WASHINGTON

Headquarters, Fishkill, Nov. 2, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I lodged last night in the neighborhood of New
Windsor. This morning early, I met Col. Morgan
with his corps, about a mile from it, in march for
headquarters. I told him the necessity of making
all the dispatch he could, so as not to fatigue his
men too much, which he has promised to do.

I understood from Col. Morgan that all the north-
em army were marching down on both sides the
river, and would probably be to-morrow at New
Windsor and this place, and that General Putnam
had held a council for the general disposition of

I04 Alexander Hamilton

them, in which it was resolved to send you four
thousand men and to keep the rest on this side the
river. I came here in expectation that matters were
in such a train as to enable me to accomplish my
errand without going any farther; imless it should
be to hasten the troops that were on their march.
But on my arrival I learned from Mr. Hughes, an
aid-de-camp of General Gates, that the following
disposition of the northern army had taken place.

General Patterson's, Glover's, and Nixon's bri-
gades, and Colonel Warner's mountain boys, to re-
main in and about Albany; barracks building for
them. General Poor's brigade, marching down this
side of the river to join General Putnam, will be
here probably to-morrow. General Lamed 's brigade,
Morgan's corps, Warner's brigade of Massachusetts
militia, and some regiments of New York militia, on
their march on the west side of the river.

I have directed General Putnam, in your name, to
send forward with all dispatch to join you the two
Continental brigades and Warner's militia brigade.
This last is to serve till the latter end of this month.
Your instructions did not comprehend any militia,
but as there are certain accounts here that most of
the troops from New York are going to reinforce
General Howe, and as so large a proportion of Con-
tinental troops have been detained at Albany, I
concluded you would not disapprove of a measure
calculated to strengthen you, though but for a
small time, and have ventured to adopt it on that
presumption.

Being informed by General Putnam that General

Private Correspondence 105

Winds, with seven hundred Jersey miHtia, were at
King's Ferry, with intention to cross to Peekskill, I
prevailed upon him to reHnquish that idea and send
off an immediate order for them to march toward
Redbank. It is possible, however, imless your Ex-
cellency supports this order by an application from
yourself, he may march his men home instead of to
the place he has been directed to repair to.

Neither Lee's, Jackson's regiments, nor the de-
tachments belonging to General McDougal's division,
have yet marched. I have pressed their being sent,
and an order has been dispatched for their instantly
proceeding. Colonel Hughes is pressing some fresh
horses for me. The moment they are ready I shall
recross the river in order to fall in with the troops
on the other side, and make all the haste I can to
Albany to get the three brigades there sent forward.

Will your Excellency permit me to observe that I
have some doubts, under present circumstances and
appearances, of the propriety of leaving the regi-
ments proposed to be left in this quarter? But if
my doubts on this subject were stronger than they
are, I am forbid, by the sense of coimcil, from inter-
fering in the matter.

General Poor's brigade is just arrived here; they
will proceed to join you with all expedition. So
strongly am I impressed with the importance of en-
deavoring to crush Mr. Howe, that I am apt to think
it would be advisable to draw off all the Continental
troops. Had this been determined on, General War-
ner's sixteen hundred militia might have been left
here.

io6 Alexander Hamilton

TO WASHINGTON

Albany, November, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I arrived here yesterday at noon, and waited upon
General Gates immediately, on the business of my
mission, but was sorry to find that his ideas did not
correspond with yours for drawing off the number of
troops you directed. I used every argument in my
power to convince him of the propriety of the meas-
ure, but he was inflexible in the opinion that two
brigades at least of Continental troops should re-
main in and near this place. His reasons were that
the intelligence of Sir Harry Clinton's having gone
to join Burgoyne was not sufficiently authenticated
to put it out of doubt; that there was therefore a
possibility of his returning up the river, which might
expose the finest arsenal in America (as he calls the
one here) to destruction, should this place be left so
bare of troops as I proposed, and that the want of
conveniences and the difficulty of the roads would
make it impossible to remove artillery and stores
for a considerable time; that the New England
States would be left open to the depredations and
ravages of the enemy ; that it would put it out of his
power to enterprise any thing against Ticonderoga,
which he thinks might be done in the winter and
which he considers it of importance to undertake.

The force of these reasons did by no means strike
me, and I did every thing in my power to show they
were unsubstantial, but all I could effect was to have
one brigade dispatched in addition to those already
marched. I found myself infinitely embarrassed,

Private Correspondence 107

and was at a loss how to act. I felt the importance
of strengthening you as much as possible, but, on
the other hand, I foimd insuperable inconveniences
in acting diametrically opposite to the opinion of a
gentleman whose successes have raised him to the
highest importance. General Gates has won the
entire confidence of the Eastern States; if disposed
to do it, by addressing himself to the prejudices of
the people he would find no difficulty to render a
measure odious which it might be said, with plausi-
bility enough to be believed, was calculated to ex-
pose them to unnecessary danger, notwithstanding
their exertions during the campaign had given them
the fullest title to repose and security. General
Gates has influence and interest elsewhere ; he might
use it if he pleased to discredit the measure there
also. On the whole, it appears to me dangerous to
insist on sending more troops from hence while Gen-
eral Gates appears so warmly to oppose it. Should
any accident or inconvenience happen in conse-
quence of it, there would be too fair a pretext for
censure, and many people are too well disposed to
lay hold of it. At any rate it might be considered
as using him ill to take a step so contrary to his judg-
ment in a case of this nature. These considerations,
and others I shall be more explicit in when I have
the pleasure of seeing you, determined me not to
insist upon sending either of the other brigades re-
maining here. I am afraid what I have done may
not meet with your approbation, as not being per-
haps fully warranted by your instructions, but I
ventured to do what I thought right, hoping that at

io8 Alexander Hamilton

least the goodness of my intention will excuse the
error of my judgment.

I was induced to this relaxation the more readily,
as I had directed to be sent on two thousand militia,
which were not expected by you, and a thousand
Continental troops out of those proposed to be left
with General Putnam, which I have written to him,
since I foimd how matters were circumstanced here,
to forward to you with all dispatch. I did this for
several reasons: because your reinforcement would
be more expeditious from that place than from this ,
because two thousand Continental troops at Peeks-
kill will not be wanted in its present circumstances,
especially as it was really necessary to have a body
of Continental troops at this place for the security of
the valuable stores here, and I should not, if I had my
wish, think it expedient to draw off more than two
of the three brigades now here. This being the case,
one of the ends you proposed to be answered by
leaving the ten regiments with General Putnam, will
be equally answered by the troops here — I mean that
of covering and fortifying the Eastern States, — and
one thousand Continental troops, in addition to the
militia collected and that may be collected there,
will be sufficient in the Highlands for covering the
country down that way and carrying on the works
necessary to be raised for the defence of the river.

The troops gone and going to reinforce you are
near five thousand rank and file Continental troops,
and two thousand five hundred Massachusetts and
New Hampshire militia. These and the seven hun-
dred Jersey militia will be a larger reinforcement

Private Correspondence 109

than you expected, though not quite an equal num-
ber of Continental troops, nor exactly in the way
directed. General Lincoln tells me the militia are
very excellent; and, though their time will be out
by the last of this month, you will be able, if you
think proper, to order the troops still remaining here
to join you by the time their term of service expires.

I cannot forbear being uneasy, lest my conduct
should prove displeasing to you; but I have done
what, considering all circumstances, appeared to me
most eligible and prudent.

Vessels are preparing to carry the brigade to New
Windsor, which will embark this evening. I shall
this afternoon set out on my return to camp, and on
my way shall endeavor to hasten the troops forward.

TO GENERAL GATES

Albany, November 5, 1777.

Sir:

By inquiry I have learned that General Patterson's
brigade, which is the one you propose to send, is by
far the weakest of the three now here, and does not
consist of more than about six hundred rank and
file fit for duty. It is true that there is a militia
regiment with it of about two hundred, but the term
of service for which this regiment is engaged is so
near expiring, that it would be past by the time the
men could arrive at the place of their destination.

Under these circumstances, I cannot consider it
either as compatible with the good of the service
or my instructions from his Excellency, General

no Alexander Hamilton

Washington, to consent that that brigade be selected
from the three to go to him; but I am under the
necessity of desiring, by virtue of my orders from
him, that one of the others be substituted instead
of this, — either General Nixon's or General Glover's,
— and that you will be pleased to give immediate
orders for its embarkation.

Knowing that General Washington wished me to
pay the greatest deference to your judgment, I ven-
tured so far to deviate from the instructions he gave
me, as to consent, in compliance with your opinion,
that two brigades should remain here instead of one.
At the same time, permit me to observe, that I am
not myself sensible of the expediency of keeping
more than one with the detached regiments in the
neighborhood of this place, and that my ideas coin-
cide with those gentlemen whom I have consulted
on the occasion, whose judgment I have much more
reliance upon than on my own, and who must be
supposed to have a thorough knowledge of all the
circumstances. Their opinion is that one brigade
and the regiments before mentioned would amply
answer the purposes of this post. When I pre-
ferred your opinion to other considerations, I did
not imagine you would pitch upon a brigade little
more than half as large as the others; and, finding
this to be the case, I indispensably owe it to my duty
to desire, in his Excellency's name, that another may
go instead of the one intended, and without loss of
time. As it may be conducive to dispatch to send
Glover's brigade, if agreeable to you, you will give
orders accordingly.

Private Correspondence in

TO WASHINGTON

New Windsor, Nov. io, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I arrived here last night from Albany. Having
given General Gates a little time to recollect him-
self, I renewed my remonstrances on the necessity
and propriety of sending you more than one brigade
of the three he had detained with him, and finally
prevailed upon him to give orders for Glover's, in
addition to Patterson's brigade, to march this way.

As it was thought conducive to expedition to send
the troops by water as far as it could be done, I pro-
cured all the vessels that could be had at Albany fit
for the purpose, but could not get more than suffi-
cient to take Patterson's brigade. It was embarked
the 7th instant, and I expected would have been
here before this, but the wind has been contrary;
they must in all probability be here to-day. Gen-
eral Glover's brigade marched at the same time on
the east side of the river, the roads being much better
than on this side. I am at this moment informed
that one sloop with a part of Patterson's is arrived
and that the others are in sight. They will imme-
diately proceed by water to King's Ferry, and
thence take the shortest route to you.

I am pained beyond expression to inform your
Excellency that on my arrival here I find every thing
has been neglected and deranged by General Putnam,
and that the two brigades — Poor's and Lamed 's —
still remain here and on the other side of the river
at Fishkill. Colonel Warner's militia, I am told,
have been drawn to Peekskill to aid in an expedition

112 Alexander Hamilton

against New York, which, it seems, is at this time
the hobby-horse with General Putnam. Not the
least attention has been paid to my order in your
name for a detachment of one thousand men from
the troops hitherto stationed at this post. Every
thing is sacrificed to the whim of taking New
York.

The two brigades of Poor and Lamed it appears
would not march for want of money and necessaries ;
several of the regiments having received no pay for
six or eight months past. There has been a high
mutiny among the former on this account, in which
a captain killed a man, and was himself shot by his
comrade. These difficulties, for want of proper
management, have stopped the troops from proceed-
ing. Governor Clinton has been the only man who
has done any thing towards removing them; but,
for want of General Putnam's co-operation, has not
been able to effect it. He has only been able to pre-
vail with Lamed 's brigade to agree to march to
Goshen, in hopes, by getting them once on the go,
to get them to continue their march. On coming
here I immediately sent for Colonel Bailey, who now
commands Lamed 's brigade. Have gotten him to
engage for carrying the brigade on to headquarters
as fast as possible. This he expects to effect by mean
of five or six thousand dollars, which Governor Clin-
ton was kind enough to borrow for me, and which
Colonel Bailey thinks will keep the men in good
humor till they join you. They marched this morn-
ing towards Goshen.

I shall as soon as possible see General Poor, and

Private Correspondence 113

do every thing in my power to get him along, and
hope I shall be able to succeed.

The plan I before laid having been totally de-
ranged a new one has become necessary. It is now
too late to send Warner's militia. By the time they
get to you their term of service would be out. The
motive for sending them, which was to give you a
speedy reinforcement, has by the past delay been
superseded.

By Governor Clinton's advice, I have sent an or-
der in the most emphatic terms to General Putnam
immediately to dispatch all the Continental troops
under him to your assistance and to detain the militia
instead of them.

My opinion is that the only present use for troops
in this quarter is to protect the country from the de-
predations of little plundering parties, and for carry-
ing on the works necessary for the defence of the
river. Nothing more ought to be thought of. 'T is
only wasting time and misapplying men to employ
them in a suicidal parade against New York, for in
this it will undoubtedly terminate. New York is no
object if it could be taken, and to take it would re-
quire more men than could be spared from more
substantial purposes. Governor Clinton's ideas co-
incide with mine. He thinks that there is no need
of more Continental troops here than a few to give a
spur to the militia in working upon the fortifications.
In pursuance of this I have given the directions
before mentioned. If General Putnam attends to
them, the troops under him may be with you nearly
as early as any of the others (though he has

VOL. IX.— 8.

114 Alexander Hamilton

unluckily, marched them down to Tarrytown), and
General Glover's brigade, when it gets up, will be
more than sufficient to answer the true end of this
post.

If your Excellency agrees with me in opinion, it
will be well to send instant directions to General
Putnam, to pursue the object I have mentioned; for
I doubt whether he will attend to any thing I shall
say, notwithstanding it comes in the shape of a
positive order. I fear, unless you interpose, the
works here will go on so feebly, for want of men, that
they will not be completed in time; whereas it ap-
pears to me of the greatest importance they should
be pushed with the utmost vigor. Governor Clinton
will do every thing in his power. I wish General
Putnam was recalled from the command of this post,
and Governor Clinton would accept it. The bltm-
ders and caprices of the former are endless. Believe
me, sir, nobody can be more impressed with the im-
portance of forwarding the reinforcements coming
to you, with all speed, nor could any body have en-
deavored more to promote it than I have done ; but
the ignorance of some, and the design of others, have
been almost insuperable obstacles. I am very un-
well; but I shall not spare myself to get things im-
mediately in a proper train; and for that purpose
intend, unless I receive other orders from you, to
continue with the troops in the progress of their
march. As soon as I get General Poor's brigade in
march, I shall proceed to General Putnam's at Peeks-
kill.

Private Correspondence 115

TO WASHINGTON

New Windsor, Nov. 12, 1777.

Dear Sir:

I have been detained here these two days, by a
fever and violent rheumatic pains throughout my
body. This has prevented my being active in per-
son for promoting the purposes of my errand; but I
have taken every other method in my power, in
which Governor CHnton has obhgingly given me all
the aid he could. In answer to my pressing applica-
tion to General Poor for the immediate marching of
his brigade, I was told they were under an operation
for the itch; which made it impossible for them to
proceed till the effects of it were over. By a let-
ter, however, of yesterday, General Poor informs me
he would certainly march this morning. I must do
him the justice to say, he appears solicitous to join
you; and that I believe the past delay is not owing
to any fault of his, but is wholly chargeable on Gen-
eral Putnam. Indeed, sir, I owe it to the service to
say, that every part of this gentleman's conduct is
marked with blunder and negligence, and gives gen-
eral disgust.

Parson's brigade will join you, I hope, in five or six
days from this. Larned's may do the same. Poor's
will, I am persuaded, make all the haste they can for
the future, and Glover's may be expected at Fishkill
to-night, whence they will be pressed forward as fast
as I can have any influence to make them go ; but I
am sorry to say, the disposition for marching, in the
officers and men in general, of these troops, does not

ii6 Alexander Hamilton

keep pace with my wishes or the exigency of the
occasion. They have, unfortunately, imbibed an
idea that they have done their part of the business
of the campaign, and are now entitled to repose.
This and the want of pay make them averse to a long
march at this advanced season.

A letter from you to General Putnam, of the 9th,
fell just now into my hands. As it might possibly
contain something useful to me, I took the liberty
of opening it and after reading it, immediately dis-
patched it to him. If he has paid any attention to
my last letters to him, things will be in a right train
for executing the order in yours ; but whether he has
or not is a matter of doubt.

In a letter from him just now received by Governor
Clinton, he appears to have been, the loth instant,
at King's Street, at the White Plains. I have had no
answer to my last applications. The enemy appear
to have stripped New York very bare. The people
there — that is, the Tories, are in a very great fright.
This adds to my anxiety, that the reinforcements
from this quarter to you are not in greater forward-
ness and more considerable.

I have written to General Gates, informing him of
the accounts of the situation of New York with re-
spect to troops, and the probability of the force gone
to Howe being greater than was at first expected —
to try if this will not extort from him a further rein-
forcement. I don't, however, expect much from
him; as he pretends to have in view an expedition
against Ticonderoga, to be undertaken in the winter,
and he knows that, under the sanction of this idea,

Private Correspondence 117

calculated to catch the Eastern people, he may,
without censure, retain the troops. And as I shall
be under a necessity of speaking plainly to your Ex-
cellency, when I have the pleasure of seeing you, I
shall not hesitate to say, I doubt whether you would
have had a man from the Northern army, if the
whole could have been kept at Albany with any de-
cency. Perhaps you will think me blamable in not
having exercised the powers you gave me, and given
a positive order. Perhaps I have been so ; but, de-
liberately weighing all circumstances, I did not and
do not think it advisable to do so.

TO GENERAL GATES

FiSHKILL, Nov. 12, 1777.

Sir:

Ever since my arrival in this quarter, I have been
endeavoring to collect the best idea I could of the
state of things in New York, in order the better to
form a judgment of the probable reinforcement gone
to General Howe. On the whole, this is a fact well
ascertained, that New York has been stripped as
bare as possible; that in consequence of this, the
few troops there and the inhabitants are under so
strong apprehensions of an attack, as almost to
amount to a panic; that to supply the deficiency of
men, every effort is making to excite the citizens to
arms for the defence of the city. For this purpose,
the public papers are full of addresses to them, that
plainly speak the apprehensions prevailing on the
occasion.

Hence I infer, that a formidable force is gone to

ii8 Alexander Hamilton

General Howe. The calculations made by those
who have had the best opportunities of judging
carry the number from six to seven thousand. If
so, the number gone and going to General Washing-
ton is far inferior ; five thousand at the utmost. The
militia were all detained by General Putnam till it
became too late to send them.

The state of things I gave you when I had the
pleasure of seeing you, was, to the best of my know-
ledge, sacredly true. I give you the present infor-
mation, that you may decide whether any further
succor can with propriety come from you.

The fleet, with the troops on board, sailed out of
the Hook the 5th instant. This circumstance de-
monstrates, beyond the possibility of doubt, that
it is General Howe's fixed intention to endeavor to
hold Philadelphia at all hazards; and removes all
danger of any further operations up the North River
this winter. Otherwise, Sir Harry Clinton's move-
ment, at this advanced season, is altogether inex-
plicable.

If you can with propriety afford any further as-
sistance, the most expeditious manner of conveying
it will be to acquaint General Putnam of it, that he
may send on the troops with him, to be replaced by
them. You, sir, best know the uses to which the
troops with you are to be applied, and will determine
accordingly. I am certain it is not his Excellency's
wish to frustrate any plan you may have in view for
the benefit of the service, so far as it can possibly be
avoided, consistent with a due attention to more im-
portant objects.

Private Correspondence 119

TO WASHINGTON
Mr. Kennedy's House, Peekskill, Nov. 15, 1777.

Sir:

I arrived at this place last night, and unfortu-
nately find myself unable to proceed any further.
Imagining I had gotten the better of my complaint,
which confined me at Governor Clinton's, and anxious
to be about attending to the march of the troops, the
day before yesterday I crossed the ferry, in order to
fall in with General Glover's brigade, which was on
its march from Poughkeepsie to Fishkill. I did not,
however, see it myself, but received a letter from
Colonel Shepherd, who commands the brigade, in-
forming me he would be last night at Fishkill and this
night at King's Ferry. Wagons, etc., are provided
on the other side for his accommodation, so that there
need be no delay but what is voluntary, and I believe
Colonel Shepherd is as well disposed as could be
wished to hasten his march. General Poor's brigade
crossed the ferry the day before yesterday. Two
York regiments — Courtland's and Livingston's — are
with them. They were unwilling to be separated
from the brigade and the brigade from them. Gen-
eral Putnam was unwilling to keep them with him;
and if he had consented to do it, the regiments to
replace them would not join you within six days
as soon as these. The troops now remaining with
General Putnam will amount to about the number
you intended, though they are not exactly the same.
He has detached Colonel Charles Webb's regiment to
you. He says the troops with him are not in a con-
dition to march, being destitute of shoes, stockings.

I20 Alexander Hamilton

and other necessaries; but I believe the true reasons
of his being unwilling to pursue the mode pointed
out by you were his aversion to the York troops and
his desire to retain General Parsons with him.

TO GENERAL PUTNAM

December 9, 1777.

Sir:

I cannot forbear confessing that I am astonished
and alarmed beyond measure to find that all his Ex-
cellency's views have been hitherto frustrated, and
that no single step of those I mentioned to you has
been taken to afford him the aid he absolutely stands
in need of, and by delaying which the cause of Amer-
ica is put to the utmost conceivable hazard. I so
fully explained to you the general's situation that I
could not entertain a doubt that you would make it
the first object of your attention to reinforce him
with that speed the exigency of affairs demanded, but
I am sorry to say he will have too much reason to
think other objects — in comparison with that, in-
significant— have been uppermost. I speak freely
and emphatically, because I tremble at the conse-
quence of the delay that has happened. General
Clinton's reinforcement is probabl}^ by this time with
Mr. Howe. This will give him a decisive superiority
over our army. What may be the issue of such a
state of things I leave to the feelings of every friend
to his country capable of foreseeing consequences.
My expressions may perhaps have more warmth
than is altogether proper, but they proceed from the

Private Correspondence 121

overflowing of my heart, in a matter where I con-
ceive this continent essentially interested. I wrote
to you from Albany and desired you would send a
thousand Continental troops of those first proposed
to be left with you. This I understand has not been
done. How the non-compliance can be answered
to General Washington you can best determine. I
now, sir, in the most explicit terms, by his Excel-
lency's authority, give it as a positive order from
him, that all the Continental troops under your com-
mand may be immediately marched to King's Ferry,
there to cross the river and hasten to reinforce the
army under him. The Massachusetts militia are to
be detained instead of them until the troops coming
from the northward arrive. When they do they will
replace, as far as I am instructed, the troops you
shall send away in consequence of this requisition.
The general's idea of keeping troops this way does
not extend farther than covering the country from
any little irruptions of small parties and carrying on
the works necessary for the security of the river. As
to attacking New York, that he thinks ought to be
out of the question at present. If men could be
spared from the other really necessary objects, he
would have no objection to attempting a diversion
by way of New York, but nothing further. As the
times of the Massachusetts and New Hampshire mili-
tia will soon expire, it will be proper to call in time
for a reinforcement from Connecticut. Governor
Clinton will do all in his power to promote objects
in which the state he commands in is so immedi-
ately concerned. Generals Glover's and Patterson's

122 Alexander Hamilton

brigades are on their way down. The number of
Continental troops necessary for this post will be
furnished out of them. I cannot but have the fullest
confidence you will use your utmost exertions to
execute the business of this letter. And I am, with
great respect, sir, yotir most obedient servant.'

TO GOVERNOR GEORGE CLINTON ^

Headquarters, Feb. 13, 1778.

Dear Sir:

I did myself the honor of writing to you imme-
diately after my arrival at headquarters, in answer
to two letters I found here from you.

There is a matter which often obtrudes itself upon
my mind, and which requires the attention of every
person of sense and prudence among us — I mean a
degeneracy of representation in the great council of
America. It is a melancholy truth, sir, the effects of
which we daily see and feel, that there is not so much
wisdom in a certain body as there ought to be, and
as the success of our affairs absolutely demands.
Many members of it are, no doubt, men in every re-
spect fit for the trust, but this cannot be said of it as
a body. Folly, caprice, a want of foresight, com-
prehension, and dignity characterize the general tenor

1 Reprinted from Hamilton's History of the Republic, {., p. 348.

2 I owe this and the other letters to be given subsequently from the
Clinton papers, to the kindness of Mr. Henry A. Homes, State Librarian
at Albany, and to the late Judge Clinton, editor of the Clinton papers.
This letter was published by the New York Herald in a pamphlet en-
titled "Clinton Correspondence," in 1842, and is now reprinted from
the Clinton papers in the possession of the State of New York.

Private Correspondence 123

of their action. Of this, I dare say, you are sensi-
ble, though you have not, perhaps, so many oppor-
tunities of knowing it as I have. Their conduct, with
respect to the army especially, is feeble, indecisive,
and improvident — insomuch that we are reduced
to a more terrible situation than you can conceive.
False and contracted views of economy have pre-
vented them, though repeatedly urged to it, from
making that provision for officers which was requisite
to interest them in the service, which has produced
such carelessness and indifference to the service as
is subversive to every officer-like quality. They
have disgusted the army by repeated instances of the
most whimsical favoritism in their promotions, and
by an absurd prodigality of rank to foreigners and to
the meanest staff of the army. They have not been
able to summon resolution enough to withstand the
impudent importunity and vain boasting of foreign
pretenders, but have manifested such a ductility and
inconsistency in their proceedings as will warrant
the charge of suffering themselves to be bullied by
every petty rascal who comes armed with ostenta-
tious pretensions of military merit and experience.
Would you believe it, sir, it is become almost pro-
verbial in the mouths of the French officers and
other foreigners, that they have nothing more to do
to obtain whatever they please than to assume a high
tone and assert their own merit with confidence and
perseverance ? These things wound my feelings as a
Republican more than I can express, and in some
degree make me contemptible in my own eyes.
By injudicious changes and arrangements in the

124 Alexander Hamilton

middle of a campaign, they have exposed the army
frequently to temporary want, and to the danger of
dissolution from absolute famine. At this very day
there are complaints from the whole line of having
been three or four days without provisions; deser-
tions have been immense, and strong features of
mutiny begin to show themselves. It is indeed to
be wondered at that the soldiery have manifested so
unparalleled a degree of patience as they have. If
effectual measures are not speedily adopted I know
not how we shall keep the army together or make
another campaign.

I omit saying any thing of the want of clothing for
the army. It may be disputed whether more could
have been done than has been done.

If you look into their conduct in the civil line you
will equally discover a deficiency of energy, dignity,
and extensiveness of views; but of this you can bet-
ter judge than myself, and it is unnecessary to par-
ticularize.

America once had a representation that would do
honor to any age or nation. The present falling off
is very alarming and dangerous. What is the cause?
or how is it to be remedied? — are questions that the
welfare of these States requires should be well at-
tended to. The great men who composed our first
council ; are they dead, have they deserted the cause,
or what has become of them ? Very few are dead and
still fewer have deserted the cause; they are all, ex-
cept the few who still remain in Congress, either in
the field or in the civil offices of their respective
States ; for the greater part are engaged in the latter.

Private Correspondence 125

The only remedy then is to take them out of these
employments and return them to the place where
their presence is infinitely more important.

Each State, in order to promote its own external
government and prosperity, has selected its best
members to fill the offices within itself, and conduct
its own affairs. Men have been fonder of the emolu-
ments and conveniences of being employed at home;
and local attachment falsely operating has made
them more provident for the particular interests of
the State to which they belonged, than for the com-
mon interests of the Confederacy. This is a most
pernicious mistake and must be corrected. How-
ever important it is to give form and efficiency to
your interior constitutions and police, it is infinitely
more important to have a wise general council;
otherwise a failure of the measures of the Union will
overwhelm all your labors for the advancement of
your particular good, and ruin the common cause.
You should not beggar the councils of the United
States to enrich the administration of the several
members. Realize to yourself the consequence of
having a Congress despised at home and abroad. How
can the common force be exerted if the power of col-
lecting it be put in weak, foolish, and unsteady hands ?
How can we hope for success in otir European nego-
tiations, if the nations of Europe have no confidence
in the wisdom and vigor of the great Continental
Government? This is the object on which their eyes
are fixed; hence it is, America will derive its im-
portance or insignificance in their estimation.

Arguments to you, sir, need not be multiplied to

126 Alexander Hamilton

enforce the necessity of having a good general coun-
cil; neither do I think we shall very widely differ as to
the fact that the present is very far from being such.

The sentiments I have advanced are not fit for the
vulgar ear ; and circumstanced as I am now, I should
with caution utter them except to those in whom I
may place an entire confidence. But it is time that
men of weight and understanding should take the
alarm, and excite each other to a proper remedy.
For my part, my insignificance allows me to do no-
thing more than to hint my apprehensions to those
of that description who are pleased to favor me with
their confidence. In this view I write to you.

As far as I can judge, the remarks I have made do
not apply to your State nearly so much as to the
other twelve. You have a Duane, a Morris, and,
may I not add, a Duer? But why do you not send
your Jay, and your R. R. Livingston? I wish Gen-
eral Schuyler was either explicitly in the army or in
Congress. For yourself, sir, though I mean no com-
pliments, you must not be spared from where you
are.

But the design of this letter is not so much that
you may use your influence in improving or enlarg-
ing your own representation, as in discreetly giving
the alarm to other States through the medium of
your confidential friends. Indeed, sir, it is necessary
there should be a change. America will shake to its
centre if there is not.

You and I had some conversation when I had the
pleasure of seeing you last, with respect to the exist-
ence of a certain faction. Since I saw you I have

Private Correspondence 127

discovered such convincing traits of the monster that
I cannot doubt its reaUty in the most extensive
sense. I dare say you have heard enough to settle
the matter in your own mind. I beHeve it unmasked
its batteries too soon, and begins to hide its head;
but as I imagine it will only change the storm to a sap,
all the true and sensible friends to their country,
and of course to a certain great man, ought to be
upon the watch to counterplot the secret machina-
tions of his enemies. Have you heard any thing of
Conway's ' history ? He is one of the vermin bred in
the entrails of his chimera dire, and there does not
exist a more villainous calumniator and incendiary.
He is gone to Albany on a certain expedition/

TO GOVERNOR GEORGE CLINTON ^

Headquarters, March 12, 1778.

Sir:

Captain Coleman delivered me yotir two letters of
the 5th and 6th instant.

The pleasure I have in corresponding with you will
dispose me, whenever I have any thing to communi-
cate that may be worth your attention, or that ap-
pears to me so, to trouble you with my sentiments.
But I shall not expect you to make an equal return
either in quantity or frequency. You will in this
entirely consult your own convenience.

I had previously flattered myself that your ideas

' The leader of the intrigue against Washington which has become
famous as the "Conway Cabal."

2 Endorsed "private" by Governor Clinton, and answered by him
March 5th.

3 From the Clinton papers.

128 Alexander Hamilton

and mine would correspond on certain matters, and
I am glad to find I was not mistaken. I doubt not
the defects of a certain synod will appear to you not
the subject of speculation only, but as disorders
in the State that require a remedy, and will, as far
as your influence reaches, contribute to it. Shall I
speak what seems to me a most melancholy truth ?
It is this : that with the most adequate means to in-
sure success in our contest, the weakness of our coun-
cils will, in all probability, ruin us. Arrangements on
which the existence of the army depends, and almost
the possibility of another campaign, are delayed in
a most astonishing manner, and I doubt whether
they will be adopted at all.

A late resolve directs G. W.' to fix the number of
men under which G. H." shall not send any parties
out of his lines on pain of being treated as marauders.
The folly of this is truly ridiculous; but as there is
perhaps nothing but folly in it, it may be excused
in them. Another resolve made for punishing kid-
nappers or persons who aid the enemy in carrying
off the peaceable inhabitants, has a retrospective
view to those who; have assisted, as well as a pro-
spective one to those who shall assist, in such prac-
tices. Thus we have gotten into the spirit of making
ex post facto laws, or rather, violating all law. An-
other resolve by plain implication acknowledges a
thing not founded on fact, which is very injurious to
us — to wit, that we have enlisted prisoners of war.
This silences all our complaints against the enemy for
a similar practice and furnishes them with a damn-

^ General Washington. ^ General Howe.

Private Correspondence 129

ing answer to any thing we can say on the subject.
This is at least an instance of folly and inconsidera-
tion, and serves to prove the general charge.

These men seem also to have embraced a system
of infidelity. They have violated the convention of
Saratoga, and I have reason to beUeve the ostensible
motives for it were little better than pretences, that
had no foimdation. I have lately seen some letters
from Burgoyne on the subject. There was, however,
a strong temptation for this, and it may be excused,
though I cannot say the measure is to my taste.
Lately a flag with provisions and clothing for the
British prisoners with G. W.'s passport was seized
at Lancaster. The affair was attended with circum-
stances of violence and meanness that would disgrace
Hottentots. Still more lately, G. W.'s engagements
with G. H. for an exchange of prisoners have been
most shamefully violated, Congress have resolved
that no exchange shall take place till all accounts are
settled and the balance due the U. S. paid. The
beauty of it is, on a fair settlement, we shall without
doubt be in Mr. Howe's debt; and, in the meantime,
we detain his officers and soldiers as a security for the
payment — perhaps forever. At any rate, it cannot
take place all next summer.

It is thought to be bad policy to go into an ex-
change; but, admitting this to be true, it is much
worse policy to commit such frequent breaches of
faith and ruin our national character. Whatever re-
fined politicians may think, it is of great consequence
to preserve a national character; and, if it should
once seem to be a system in any State to violate

VOL. IX.— Q.

130 Alexander Hamilton

its faith whenever it is the least inconvenient to
keep it, it will unquestionably have an ill effect upon
foreign negotiations, and tend to bring Government
at home in contempt, and, of course, to destroy its
influence. The general notions of justice and human-
ity are implanted in almost every human breast
and ought not to be too freely shocked. In the
present case the passions of the country and army
are on the side of an exchange, and a studied attempt
to avoid it will disgust both and serve to make the
source odious. It will injure drafting and recruiting,
discourage the militia, and increase the discontents
of the army. The prospects of hopeless captivity
cannot but be very disagreeable to men constantly
exposed to the chance of it. Those whose lot it is to
fall into it, will have little scruple to get out of it by
joining the enemy.

It is said not to be our present interest to exchange,
because we shall endeavor, by and by, to take ad-
vantage of the enemy's weakness to strike some de-
cisive blow. If we should fail in this, which I believe
we shall, when they get reinforced, we shall not think
it our interest to add to the strength of an enemy,
already strong enough, and so on ad infinitum. The
truth is, considered in the mere view of barter, it can
never be our interest to exchange; the constitution
of our army, from the short term of enlistments and
the dependence we are obliged to place in the militia,
are strongly opposed to it; and if the argument of
present interest be adhered to, we never can ex-
change. I may venture to assert there never can be
a time more proper than the present, or, rather, a

Private Correspondence 131

month or two hence; and go about it as soon as we
please, the previous negotiations necessary and other
circumstances will, of course, procrastinate it for
some time. And I would ask whether, in a republican
State and a republican army, such a cruel policy
as that of exposing those men who are foremost in
defense of their country, to the miseries of hopeless
captivity, can succeed?

For my own part, I have so much of the milk of
humanity in me, that I abhor such Neronian maxims ;
and I look upon the old proverb that honesty is the
best policy to be so generally true, that I can never
expect any good from a system at real deviation from
it; and I never can adopt the reasonings of some
American politicians, deducible from their practice,
that no regard is to be paid to national character
or the rules of good faith.

I dwell upon the faults of Congress, because I think
they strike at the vitals of our opposition and of our
future prosperity; and with this idea, I cannot but
wish that every gentleman of influence in the country
should think with me.

We have nothing new in camp, save that Capt.
Barry, late of a continental frigate, has destroyed,
with a few gun-boats, two large ships belonging to
the enemy, laden with forage from Rhode Island.
He also took an armed schooner, which he has since
been obliged to run on shore, after a gallant defence.
'T is said he has saved her cannon and stores ; among
the ordnance, four brass howitzers. Some accounts
say the enemy are preparing to evacuate Philadel-
phia. Sed credat Judceus Apelles, non ego.

132 Alexander Hamilton

TO WILLIAM DUER, M.C

Headquarters, Jiine 18, 1778.

Dear Sir:

I take the liberty to trouble you with a few hints
on a matter of some importance. Baron Steuben,
who will be the bearer of this, waits on Congress to
have his office arranged upon some decisive and per-
manent footing. It will not be amiss to be on your
guard. The Baron is a gentleman for whom I have
a particular esteem, and whose zeal, intelligence, and
success, the consequence of both, entitle him to the
greatest credit. But I am apprehensive, with all his
good qualities, that a fondness for power and im-
portance, natural to every man, may lead him to
wish for more extensive prerogatives in his depart-
ment than it will be for the good of the service to
grant. I should be sorry to excite any prejudice
against him on this account ; perhaps I may be
mistaken in my conjecture. The caution I give will
do no harm if I am; if I am not, it may be useful.
In either case, the Baron deserves to be considered as
a valuable man and treated with all the deference
which good policy will warrant.

On the first institution of this office, the General
allowed him to exercise more ample powers than
would be proper for a continuance. They were
necessary in the commencement, to put things in a
train with a degree of dispatch which the exigency
of our affairs required; but it has been necessary to

' Baron Steuben was appointed Inspector-general of the Army May
5, 1778, and this letter, which is undated in the edition of 1850, refers
to that ofi&ce.

Private Correspondence 133

restrain them, even earlier than was intended. The
novelty of the office excited questions about its
boundaries; the extent of its operations alarmed the
officers of every rank for their own rights. Their
jealousies and discontents were rising fast to a height
that threatened to overturn the whole plan. It be-
came necessary to apply a remedy. The General has
delineated the functions of the Inspectorship in gen-
eral orders, a copy of which will be sent to Congress.
The plan is good and satisfactory to the army in
general.

It may be improved, but it will be tmsafe to deviate
essentially from it. It is of course the General's
intention, that whatever regulations are adopted
by him, should undergo the revision and receive
the sanction of Congress ; but it is indispensable, in
the present state of our army, that he should have the
power, from time to time, to introduce and authorize
the reformations necessary in our system. It is a
work which must be done by occasional and gradual
steps, and ought to be intrusted to a person on the
spot who is thoroughly acquainted with all our de-
fects and has judgment sufficient to adopt the pro-
gressive remedies they require. The plan established
by Congress, on a report of the Board of War, when
Conway was appointed, appears to me exception-
able in many respects. It makes the Inspector
independent of the Commander-in-chief ; confers
powers which would produce universal opposition in
the army ; and, by making the previous concurrence
of the Board of War requisite to the introduction of
every regiilation which should be foimd necessary,

134 Alexander Hamilton

opens such a continual source of delay as would
defeat the usefulness of the institution. Let the
Commander-in-chief introduce, and the Legislature
afterwards ratify or reject, as they think proper.
Perhaps you will not differ much from me when I
suppose, that, so far as relates to the Board of War,
the former scheme was a brat of faction, and therefore
ought to be renounced.

There is one thing which the Baron has much at
heart, which, in good policy, he can by no means be
indulged in ; it is the power of enforcing that part of
discipline which we understand by subordination or
an obedience to orders. This power can only be
properly lodged with the Commander-in-chief, and
would inflame the whole army if put into other hands.
Each captain is vested with it in his company, each
colonel in his regiment, each general in his particular
command, and the Commander-in-chief in the whole.

When I began this letter I did not intend to meddle
with any other subject than the inspectorship, but
one just comes into my head which appears to me of
no small importance. The goodness or force of an
army depends as much, perhaps more, on the compo-
sition of the corps which form it, as on its collective
number. The composition is good or bad — not only
to the quality of the men, but in proportion to the
completeness or incompleteness of a corps in respect
to numbers. A regiment, for instance, with a full
complement of officers and fifty or sixty men, is not
half so good as a company with the same number of
men. A colonel will look upon such a command as
unworthy his ambition, and will neglect and despise

Private Correspondence 135

it: a captain would pride himself in it, and take all
the pains in his power to bring it to perfection. In
one case we shall see a total relaxation of discipline
and negligence of every thing that constitutes mili-
tary excellence ; in the other there will be attention,
energy, and every thing that can be wished. Opinion,
whether well- or ill-founded, is the governing princi-
ple of human affairs. A corps much below its estab-
lishment, comparing what it is with what it ought to
be, loses all confidence in itself, and the whole army
loses that confidence and emulation which are essen-
tial to success. These, and a thousand other things
that will occur to you, make it evident that the most
important advantages attend the having complete
corps, and proportional disadvantages the reverse.
Ten thousand men, distributed into twenty imperfect
regiments, will not have the efficiency of the same
number in half the number of regiments. The fact
is, with respect to the American army, that the want
of discipline and other defects we labor under, are as
much owing to the skeleton state of our regiments as
to any other cause. What then?

Have we any prospects of filling our regiments?
My opinion is, that we have nearly arrived at our ne
plus ultra. If so, we ought to reduce the number of
corps, and give them that substance and consistency
which they want, by incorporating them together, so
as to bring them near their establishment. By this
measure the army would be infinitely improved; and
the State would be saved the expense of maintaining
a ntmiber of superfluous officers.

In the present condition of our regiments, they are

13^ Alexander Hamilton

incapable even of performing their common exercises
without joining two or more together: an expedient
reluctantly submitted to by those officers who see
themselves made second in command of a battalion,
instead of first, as their commission imports; which
happens to every younger colonel whose regiment is
united with that of an elder.

What would be the inconveniencies, while the
officers who remain in command, and who might be
selected from the others on account of superior merit,
would applaud themselves in the preference given
them, and rejoice at a change which confers such
additional consequence on themselves?

Those who should be excluded by the measure
would return home discontented, and make a noise,
which would soon subside and be forgotten among
matters of greater moment. To quiet them still
more effectually, if it should be thought necessary,
they might be put upon half -pay for a certain time.

If, on considering this matter, you should agree
with me in sentiment, it were to be wished the scheme
could be immediately adopted, while the arrange-
ment now in hand is still unexecuted. If it is made,
it will be rather inconvenient, immediately after, to
unhinge and throw the whole system again afloat.

When you determined upon your last arrangement,
you did not know what success the different States
might have had in draughting and recruiting. It
would then have been improper to reduce the number
of corps, as proposed. We have now seen their suc-
cess: we have no prospect of seeing the regiments
filled; we should reduce them.

Private Correspondence 137

TO LAFAYETTE

25th June, 1778.

Sir:

We find, on onr arrival here, that the intelHgence
received on the road is true. The enemy have all
filed off from Allen Town, on the Monmouth road.
Their rear is said to be a mile westward of Lawrence
Taylor's tavern, six miles from Allen Town. General
Maxwell is at Hyde's Town, about three miles from
this place. General Dickinson is said to be on the
enemy's right fiank; but where, cannot be told. We
can hear nothing certain of General Scott ; but, from
circumstances, he is probably at Allen Town. We
shall, agreeably to your request, consider and appoint
some proper place of rendezvous for the union of our
force, which we shall communicate to Generals Max-
well and Scott, and to yourself. In the meantime, I
would recommend to you to move toward this place
as soon as the convenience of your men will permit.
I am told that Colonel Morgan is on the enemy's right
flank. We had a slight skirmish with their rear this
forenoon, at Robert Montgomery's, on the Monmouth
road, leading from Allen Town. We shall see Gen-
eral Maxwell immediately, and you will hear from us
again. Send this to the General after reading it.

Doctor Stile's House, Cranbury Town, 9 o'clock.

We are just informed that General Scott passed by
Hooper's tavern, five miles from Allen Town, this
afternoon, at five o'clock.

138 Alexander Hamilton

TO WASHINGTON

Robin's Tavern, 8 miles from Allen Town,
12 o'clock, June 26, 1778.

Sir:

We have halted the troops at this place„ The
enemy, by our last reports, were four miles from this
(that is, their rear), and had passed the road which
turns off toward South Amboy, which, determines
their route toward Shrewsbury. Our reason for
halting, is the extreme distress of the troops for want
of provisions. General Wayne's detachment is al-
most starving, and seems both unwilling and unable
to march further till they are supplied. If we do not
receive an immediate supply, the whole purpose of
our detachment must be frustrated.

This morning we missed doing any thing, from a
deficiency of intelligence. On my arrival at Cran-
bury yester-evening, I proceeded, by desire of the
Marquis, immediately to Hyde's Town and Allen
Town, to take measures for co-operating with the
different parts of the detachment, and to find what
was doing to procure intelligence. I found every pre-
caution was neglected ; no horse was near the enemy,
nor could be heard of till late in the morning, so that
before we could send out parties and get the necessary
information, they were in full march: and as they
have marched pretty expeditiously, we should not be
able to come up with them during the march of the
day, if we did not suffer the impediment we do, on the
score of provisions. We are entirely at a loss where
the army is, which is no inconsiderable check to our
enterprise. If the army is wholly out of supporting

Private Correspondence 139

distance, we risk the total loss of the detachment in
making an attack.

If the army will countenance us, we may do some-
thing clever. We feel our personal honor, as well as
the honor of the army, and the good of the service,
interested; and are heartily desirous to attempt
whatever the disposition of our men will second, and
prudence authorize. It is evident the enemy wish
to avoid, not to engage us.

Desertions, I imagine, have been pretty consider-
able to-day. I have seen eight or ten deserters and
have heard of many more. We have had some little
skirmishing by detached parties: one attacked their
rear-guard with a degree of success, killed a few, and
took seven prisoners.

An officer has just come in, who informs that he
left the enemy's rear five miles off, still in march,
about half an hour ago. To ascertain still more
fully their route, I have ordered a fresh party on
their left, toward the head of their column. They
have three brigades in rear of their baggage.

TO WASHINGTON

Jirne 28, 1778.

Sir:

The result of what I have seen and heard, concern-
ing the enemy, is, that they have encamped with
their van a little beyond Monmouth Court House,
and their rear at Manalapan's river, about seven
miles from this place. Their march to-day has been
very judiciously conducted; — their baggage in front,

I40 Alexander Hamilton

and their flying army in the rear, with a rear-guard
of one thousand men about four hundred paces
from the main body. To attack them in this situa-
tion, without being supported by the whole army,
would be folly in the extreme. If it should be
thought advisable to give the necessary support, the
whole army can move to some position near the
enemy's left flank, which would put them in a very
awkward situation, with so respectable a body in
their rear ; and it would put it out of their power to
turn either flank, should they be so disposed. Their
left is strongly posted, and I am told their right also.
By some accounts one part of their army lies on the
road leading from the Monmouth road to South Am-
boy. It is not improbable that South Amboy may
be the object.

I had written thus far when your letter to the
Marquis arrived. This puts the matter on a totally
different footing. The detachment will march to-
morrow morning at three o'clock to English Town.

TO ELIAS BOUDINOT ^

July 5, 1778.

Dear Sir:

We have made another detachment of a thousand
men under General Wayne, and formed all the de-
tached troops into an advanced corps, imder the

' The distinguished New Jersey patriot and statesman; at this time
member of Congress and Commissary General of Prisoners; afterwards
President of Congress, and from 1 789-1 795 member of the National
House of Representatives.

Private Correspondence 141

command of the Marquis de Lafayette. The project
was that this advanced corps should take the first
opportunity to attack the enemy's rear on a march,
to be supported or covered, as circumstances should
require, by the whole army. General Lee's conduct
with respect to the command of this corps was truly
childish. According to the incorrect notions of our
army, his seniority would have entitled him to the
command of the advanced corps ; but he in the first
instance declined it in favor of the marquis. Some of
his friends having blamed him for doing it, and Lord
Stirling having shown a disposition to interpose his
claim. General Lee very inconsistently reasserted his
pretensions. The matter was a second time accom-
modated, General Lee, and Lord Stirling agreed to let
the Marquis command. General Lee, a little time
after, recanted again, and became very importunate.
The General (Washington), who had all along ob-
served the greatest candor in the matter, grew tired
of such fickle behavior, and ordered the Marquis to
proceed.

I never saw the General to so much advantage.
His coolness and firmness were admirable. He in-
stantly took measures for checking the enemy's
advance, and giving time to the army, which was
very near, to form and make a proper disposition.
He then rode back, and had the troops formed on a
very advantageous piece of groimd, in which, and in
other transactions of the day. General Lee and Lord
Stirling rendered very essential service, and did them-
selves great honor. America owes a great deal to
General Washington for this day's work. A general

142 Alexander Hamilton

rout, dismay, and disgrace would have attended the
whole army in any other hands but his. By his own
good sense and fortitude, he turned the fate of the
day. Other officers have great merit in performing
their parts well, but he directed the whole with the
skill of a master workman. He did not hug himself
at a distance and leave an Arnold to win laurels for
him, but by his own presence he brought order out of
confusion, animated his troops, and led them to suc-
cess. After a tribute to Wayne, Stewart, Ramsey,
Olney, Livingston, Barber, Cilley, Parker, Craig, and
Oswald, the behavior of the officers and men was such
as could not easily be surpassed. Our troops, after
the first impulse from mismanagement, behaved with
more spirit and moved with greater order than the
British troops. You know my way of thinking of
our army, and that I am not apt to flatter it. I
assure you I never was pleased with them before this
day. What think you now of General Lee ? What-
ever a court martial may decide, I shall continue to
believe and say, — his conduct was monstrous and
unpardonable.'

TO LORD STIRLING (?) '

July 14th (?), 1778.

Sir:

Since the giving my evidence at the Court Martial,
I have been endeavoring to recollect more particu-

' Reprinted from Hamilton's History of the Republic, {., pp. 468 and

478.

2 William Alexander, commonly called in America Lord Stirling, from
his claim to that earldom, was President of the Court Martial which
tried Gen. Charles Lee for his conduct at the battle of Monmouth, and

Private Correspondence 143

larly the import of the conversation between General
Lee and myself, that happened in the field the day of
the action, and which was the subject of discussion
yesterday before the court. My memory will not
serve me on the occasion, in so clear a manner as I
could wish ; but I have been able to form some more
distinct ideas, than those expressed when I was in-
terrogated by General Lee, which I communicate to
you to make what use of them you think proper. On
my making some remarks to General Lee which I
now forget, he asked me the following questions, or
others to the same effect, and I think partly in the
same words — '' Do I appear to you to have lost my
senses, or do I not possess myself?"

My answer to these questions I do not perfectly
recollect, but I remember that it was a favorable one,
though I am unable to determine to what extent.
It will be readily conceived that so singular and tm-
expected a question was not a little embarrassing, and
it is possible I may have replied in terms of less re-
serve and caution than I should have done at a
moment of greater tranquillity and cooler reflection.
I perfectly remember what passed in my mind upon
the occasion with respect to General Lee's conduct,
and, from the most deliberate and unbiassed retro-
spect of it, my judgment entirely coincides with what
I then thought. His answers to what was said to
him were pertinent, and his behavior had not the
least appearance of concern on the score of personal

it is probable therefore that this hitherto unpublished letter from the
Hamilton papers in the State Department, was addressed to him.
Hamilton testified at the trial on July 4th and July 13th.

144 Alexander Hamilton

security. So far he possessed himself and could not
be said to have lost his senses according to his own
expressions. But he certainly did not appear to me
to be in that collected state of mind or to have that
kind of self-possession which is an essential requisite
of the General, and which alone can enable him in
critical emergencies to take his measures with the
promptitude and decision they require. A certain
indecision, improvidence, and hurry of spirits to the
best of my recollection were apparent. These were
my thoughts at the time, and it is natural for me to
believe that what I replied to General Lee could not be
inconsistent with them.

This letter I mean as explanatory to my testimony
of yesterday, founded upon my reflections since, and
if it can be done with propriety, I shall be glad it may
be admitted by the court as such.

TO WASHINGTON

Black Point, July 20, 1778.

Sir:

Inclosed I transmit your Excellency a letter from
Count D'Estaing.^ He has had the river sounded,
and finds he cannot enter. He will sail for Rhode
Island to-morrow evening. In the meantime, he is
making demonstrations to deceive the enemy, and
beget an opinion that he intends to operate in this

^ Coiint D'Estaing arrived in Delaware Bay on July 8th, ten days too
late to intercept the British. He sailed for New York and remained
some time in the lower bay, unable to get pilots to take him up. He
then sailed for Newport, where he arrived July 29th. This letter was
written just before D'Estaing's departure from New York.

Private Correspondence 145

quarter. He would sail immediately, but he awaits
the arrival, or to hear, of a frigate which carried Mr.
Gerard to Delaware, and which he appointed to meet
him at Sandy Hook ; so that he fears that his sudden
and unexpected departure, before she arrives, might
cause her to be lost. He will not, however, wait
longer than to-morrow evening. We have agreed
that five cannon, fired briskly, shall be a signal of his
arrival by day, and the same number, with five sky-
rockets, a signal by night. In communicating this
to General Sullivan, the Count wishes not a moment
may be lost; and that he may be directed to have
persons stationed on the coast, and intermediate
expresses, to facilitate the communication between
them. Pilots will be a material article. He begs
that every thing may be forwarded as much as pos-
sible ; and as many troops collected as may be. He
would be glad if a detachment could march from your
army, or could be sent by water ; for which purpose
he would send covering ships, and some vessels he
has taken, by way of transports ; but he cannot think
of losing so much time as seerns necessary. If the
water scheme could shorten it, it would be a happy
circumstance. He recommends it to your attention;
and that you would take measures, if the end can
be better answered in this way, and meet him with
information of the part he may have to act to exe-
cute the plan. I perceive he can, with difficulty,
debark four thousand troops; but he will try to do it.
I hope your Excellency will excuse my not being
myself the bearer of these particulars ; the end may
be answered by letter. Mr. Neville is anxious to get

VOL. IX.— lO.

146 Alexander Hamilton

on. I just have heard of dispatches arrived from
you. I don't know but they may contain something
new which may make the Count to wish a good con-
veyance to return an answer. My stay until to-
morrow morning may answer that end. I shall not
delay coming forward.

TO WASHINGTON

Newark, July 23, 1778, one o'clock.

Sir:

I wrote to your Excellency the evening of the 20th
by Major Neville. I remained in the neighborhood
of Black Point till the afternoon following. The
Count had received his expected dispatches from
Congress, and was to sail, as I mentioned before, the
first fair wind. i\t Bnmswick yesterday Mr. Cald-
well joined me. He was immediately from the Point,
and brought intelligence that the fleet got under way
yesterday morning. The wind, imfortimately, has
been much against them, which is so much the more
to be regretted, as they are rather in want of water.

I need not suggest to your Excellency that an es-
sential part of the Rhode Island plan is to take every
possible measure to watch the enemy's motions and
to establish expresses from place to place, to give the
Count instant information of any movement among
their fleet. This will enable him to be in time to
intercept them should they attempt to evacuate New
York while he is at Rhode Island ; and will, in general,
facilitate the intercourse and co-operation between
him and your Excellency.

I have nothing new to commimicate beside what

Private Correspondence 147

was sent by Major Neville and what I now send. All
the ideas interchanged between the Count and myself
were such as were familiar before I left headquarters.
He was to go to Rhode Island, and, in connection
with General Sullivan, endeavor to possess himself
of the enemy's ships and troops there; if, on his
arrival, he had good reason to think it could be
effected without further assistance. If not, he will
be glad of a reinforcement from you in the most
expeditious manner possible. What manner you
think will be most expeditious, you will adopt; and
if his aid may be useful, he will afford it as soon as
he is informed of it.

This being the case, my immediate presence at
headquarters is the less necessary as to this business ;
and I hope your Excellency will indulge me, if I do
not make all the dispatch back which a case of
emergency would require, though I do not mean to
delay more than a moderate attention to my frail
constitution may make not improper.

TO ELIAS BOUDINOT

July 26, 1778.

Dear Sir:

Baron Steuben will do me the honor to deliver you
this. He waits upon Congress in a temper which I
very much regret — discontented with his situation,
and almost resolved to quit the service. You know
we have all the best opinion of this gentleman's mili-
tary merit, and shall, of course, consider his leaving
the army as a loss to it. Whether any expedient can
be adopted to reconcile difficulties and retain him in

148 Alexander Hamilton

the service, at the same time that no disgust is given
to others who ought not to be disgusted, I cannot
certainly determine. But I should conceive it would
not be impossible to find such an expedient. You
have no doubt heard while you were with the army
of the obstacles thrown in his way by many of the
general officers, excited to it by Lee and Mifflin, as
I believe, in the execution of the inspectorship; and
you have, it is equally probable, heard of the arrange-
ment the General was in a manner obliged to adopt
to silence the clamors which existed among them,
and place the inspectorate upon a footing more con-
formable to their ideas. The opposition the Baron
met with in this case was one cause of dissatisfaction
to him. In our march from Brunswick, as the Baron
was unemployed, and there was a great deficiency of
general officers, notwithstanding the ideas of the
army are against giving a command in the line to a
person vested with an office similar to that held by
him, the General ventured to give him the temporary
command of a division during the march, in conse-
quence of which the command of a wing devolved
upon him. This was a source of offence to many.
When we came near the White Plains the General
thanked him in general orders for his services, and
requested he would resume the exercise of his former
office. To this, on account of the opposition he had
already met with, and from the original plan for the
inspectorship being mutilated, he discovered very
great disinclination, and expressed desire to preserve
a command in the line, and, from some conversation
we had together, I apprehend he means to resign his

Private Correspondence 149

present appointment, if he cannot have a command
suited to his rank annexed to it. You will see by
the General's letters what are his sentiments, both
with respect to the duties of the inspectorship and
the Baron's holding a command in the line. Far be
it from me to wish to contravene his views ; you may
be assured they cannot be essentially departed from
without very serious inconvenience. But if any
thing could be done consistent with them to satisfy
the Baron, it would be extremely desirable. Perhaps
the principle on which the General's arrangement is
formed may be preserved, and, at the same time, the
objects of the inspectorship enlarged, so as to render
it a more important employment. Perhaps a reso-
lution of Congress giving the Baron a right to be
employed on detachments might for the present
compensate for the want of a permanent command
in the line and might not be disagreeable to the
officers. You can sound him on these heads. I
need not caution you that this is a matter of great
delicacy and importance, and that every step taken
in it ought to be well considered.^

TO ELIAS BOUDINOT

September (?) 1778.2

You know the feuds and discontents which have
attended the departure of the French fleet from
Rhode Island. You are probably not uninformed of
the imprudence of General Sullivan on the occasion,

^ Reprinted from Hamilton's History of the Republic, i., p. 488.
2 The French left New York for Newport at the end of July, and the
battle of Quaker Hill was fought on August 29th.

150 Alexander Hamilton

particularly in the orders he issued charging our allies
with refusing to assist us. This procedure was the
summit of folly, and has made a very deep impression
upon the minds of the Frenchmen in general, who
naturally consider it as an unjust and ungenerous
reflection on their nation. The stigmatizing an ally
in public orders, and one with whom we meant to
continue in amity, was certainly a piece of absurdity
without parallel. The Frenchmen expect the State
will reprobate the conduct of their general, and by
that means make atonement for the stain he has
attempted to bring upon French honor. Something
of this kind seems necessary, and will in all likelihood
be expected by the Court of France, but the manner
of doing it suggests a question of great delicacy and
difficulty, which I find myself unable to solve. The
temper with which General Sullivan was actuated
was too analogous to that which appeared in the
generality of those concerned with him in the expe-
dition, and to the sentiments prevailing among the
people. Though men of discretion will feel the im-
propriety of his conduct, yet there are too many who
will be ready to make a common cause with him
against any attempt of the public authority to con-
vince him of his presumption, unless the business is
managed with great address and circumspection.
The credit universally given him for a happy and
well-conducted retreat, will strengthen the senti-
ments in his favor, and give an air of cruelty to any
species of disgrace which might be thrown upon a
man, who will be thought rather to deserve the
esteem and applause of his country. To know how

Private Correspondence 151

to strike the proper string will require more skill than
I am master of; but I would offer this general hint,
that there should be a proper mixture of the sweet
and bitter in the potion which may be administered.
I am sure it will give you pleasure to have heard that
our friend Greene did ample justice to himself on this
expedition ; and that Laurens ' was as conspicuous
as usual. But while we celebrate our friends and
countrymen, we should not be forgetful of those
meritorious strangers who are sharing the toils and
dangers of America. Without derogating from the
merit of the other French gentlemen who distin-
guished themselves, Mr. Toussard ^ may be justly
allowed a pre-eminent place. In the enthusiasm of
heroic valor, he attempted, single and unseconded,
to possess himself of one of the enemy's field-pieces,
which he saw weakly defended. He did not effect it,
and the loss of his arm was the price of his bravery —
his horse was shot under him at the same time ; but
we should not the less admire the boldness of the
exploit from a failure in the success. This gentle-
man has now, in another and more signal instance,
justified the good opinion I have long entertained of
him, and merited by a fresh testimony of his zeal,
as well as a new stroke of misfortune, the considera-

^ John Laurens, Hamilton's friend and his comrade on Washington's
staff.

2 Colonel Louis Toussard was one of the officers who came out in
1777, recommended by Silas Deane. For his gallantry in this action he
was brevetted a Lieutenant-Colonel and received a pension from Con-
gress. He afterwards served his own government in the West Indies,
and in 1794 returned to this country. He was an officer in our army
from 1795 to 1802, and afterwards French Consul at New Orleans,
1812-1815.

152 Alexander Hamilton

tion of Congress. The splendid action he has now
performed, and for which he has paid so dear should
neither be concealed from the public eye, nor the
public patronage. You are at liberty to commit this
part of my letter to the press. '

TO

Headquarters, Nov. 8, 1778.

Dear Sir:

I have received your favor of the 4th, and shall
with pleasure commtmicate the intelligence we have
had at headquarters. On the morning of the 3d
one hundred and eight sail of vessels sailed out of
the Hook, — supposed, from the best calculations, to
contain seven or eight thousand men. They first
steered to the eastward, but soon after changed their
course and bore S. E. with the wind at N. W. The
general accounts from New York speak of three dis-
tinct embarkations : one for the West Indies, another
for Halifax, another for St. x\ugustine. One divi-
sion, which seems to be best ascertained, contains ten
or twelve British regiments and most of the new
levies, which probably went in the above-mentioned
fleet.

This much is pretty certain, that the embarkation
has continued since the departure of that fleet, which
is a strong circumstance in favor of a general evacua-
tion. All their vessels the least out of repair are
drawn up to the different ship-yards, and their re-
pairs are going on with all possible vigor. Whether
the merchants are packing up or not, is a point still

^ Reprinted from Hamilton's History of the Republic, i., 494.

Private Correspondence 153

much in duhio; though we have several accounts
that look like it, but they are not so precise and
certain as could be wished. Several bales of goods
have been seen on the wharves, marked for particular
ships. A deserter, indeed, lately from the city, in-
sists that he saw Coffin and Anderson packing up.
This, if true, would be decisive, for this is a very
considerable house partictilarly attached to the
army. One of our spies, a trusty one too, writes, the
31st of October, that the principal part of the sick
from the hospitals had embarked, but this stands
almost wholly upon its own bottom. The capture of
Jamaica seems to be a mere rumor. There are
several others respecting St. Kitts, Montserrat, and
Grenada. The two former are said to have been
taken by surprise on a temporary absence of their
guard-ships, but these stories were not improbably
suggested by a late sudden and very considerable rise
in the prices of rum and molasses. The former being
as high as fourteen or fifteen shillings per gallon.
Large purchases have been made of these articles as
sea stores for the troops, and the speculators in the
city have been bidding against the commissaries,
which better accounts for the increased prices.

It is a question very undecided in my mind whether
the enemy will evacuate or not. Reasoning a priori,
the arguments seem to be strongest for it — from the
exhausted state of the British resources, the naked
condition of their dominions ever^^where, and the
possibility of a Spanish war. But, on the other
hand, naval superiority must do a great deal in
the business. This I think, considering all things,

154 Alexander Hamilton

appears clearly enough to be on the side of Britain.
The sluggishness of Spain affords room to doubt her
taking a decisive part. The preserving posts in these
States will greatly distress our trade and give security
to the British West India trade. They will also
cover the West Indies, and restrain any operations of
ours against the British dominions on the continent.
These considerations, and the depreciated state of our
currency, will be strong inducements to keep New
York and Rhode Island, if not with a view to con-
quest, with a view to temporary advantages, and
making better terms in a future negotiation.

From appearances, the great delay which attends
the embarkation, the absolute tranquillity of the post
at Rhode Island, where there is no kind of prepara-
tion for leaving it, and some other circumstances,
seem to indicate an intention to remain. On the
other hand, besides the general appearances I have
already mentioned, their inattention to the petition
of the refugees, and the not raising new works, are
strong additional reasons for going away. I think it
most probable, if they were determined to continue a
garrison, that they would give most explicit assur-
ance to their friends, in order to encourage their pro-
posal and engage them to aid in maintaining it. I
think, also, they would contract their work, to be
better proportioned to the number of the garrison,
and of course more defensible, by throwing a chain
of fortifications across the narrow part of the
island.

Nothing has yet been decided that we know of
with respect to the sentences you mention. General

Private Correspondence 155

Lee's case,' by our last advices, was on the eve of a
final decision. It seems he has made a strong party
in Congress, and is very confident of having the
sentence annulled. St. Clair's trial ^ was ordered to
be printed for the separate consideration of the
members.

The depreciation of our currency really casts a
gloom on our prospects, but my sentiments on the
subject are rather peculiar. I think, bad as it is, it
will continue to draw out the resources of the country
a good while longer, and especially if the enemy
make such detachments, of which there is hardly a
doubt, as will oblige them to act on the defensive.
This will make our public expenditures infinitely less,
and will allow the States leisure to attend to the ar-
rangements of their finances, as well as the country
tranquillity to cultivate its resources.

Any letters that may come to headquarters for you
will be carefully forwarded.

TO BARON STEUBEN

Headquarters, Dec. 19, 1778.

I snatch a hasty moment, my dear Baron, to
acknowledge the receipt of your obliging favor of the
sixth. It came here while I was absent in an inter-
view with some British commissioners on the subject
of an exchange of prisoners, and was not delivered to

^ General Charles Lee was tried by court-martial, for his conduct at
the battle at Monmouth, as already described.

2 Major-General Arthur St. Clair, of our army. He was tried by
court-martial in September, 1778, for the evacuation of Ticonderoga,
July 4, 1777, and honorably acqxiitted.

156 Alexander Hamilton

me till two days ago. I am sorry that your business
does not seem to make so speedy a progress as we
all wish, but I hope it will soon come to a speedy
termination. I wish you to be in a situation to
employ yourself usefully and agreeably, and to con-
tribute to giving our military constitution that order
and perfection it certainly wants. I have not time
now to enter upon some matters which I shall take
another opportunity to give you my sentiments con-
cerning. I have read your letter to Lee with pleas-
ure. It was conceived in terms which the offence
merited, and if he had had any feeling, must have
been felt by him. Considering the pointedness and
severity of your expressions, his answer was certainly
a very modest one, and proved that he had not a
violent appetite for so close a tHe-a-tUe as you seem
disposed to insist upon. This evasion, if known to
the world, would do him very little honor. I don't
know but I shall be shortly at Philadelphia, if so, I
shall have the honor of personally assuring you of the
perfect respect and esteem with which I am, etc.

NARRATIVE OF AN AFFAIR OF HONOR BETWEEN GEN-
ERAL LEE AND COL. LAURENS '

24th December, 1778.

General Lee, attended by Major Edwards, and
Col. Laurens, attended by Col. Hamilton, met agree-
able to appointment on Wednesday afternoon at
half-past three in a wood situate near the four-mile

' Colonel Laurens called Gen. Charles Lee out for using disrespectful
language about Washington after the battle of Monmouth.

Private Correspondence 157

stone on the Point-no-point road. Pistols having
been the weapons previously fixed upon, and the
combatants being provided with a brace each, it
was asked in what manner they were to proceed.
General Lee proposed to advance upon one another
and each fire at what time and distance he thought
proper. Col. Laurens expressed his preference of
this mode, and agreed to the proposal accordingly.

They approached each other within about five or
six paces and exchanged a shot almost at the same
moment. As Col. Laurens was preparing for a
second discharge. General Lee declared himself
wounded. Col. Laurens, as if apprehending the
wound to be more serious than it proved, advanced
towards the General to offer his support. The same
was done by Col. Hamilton and Major Edwards under
a similar apprehension. General Lee then said the
wound was inconsiderable — less than he had imagined
at the first stroke of the ball, and proposed to fire a
second time. This was warmly opposed both by
Col. Hamilton and Major Edwards, who declared it to
be their opinion, that the affair should terminate as
it then stood. But General Lee repeated his desire
that there should be a second discharge, and Col.
Laurens agreed to the proposal. Col. Hamilton ob-
served that unless the General was influenced by
motives of personal enmity, he did not think the
affair ought to be pursued any further; but as
General Lee seemed to persist in desiring it, he was
too tender of his friend's honor to persist in opposing
it. The combat was then going to be renewed; but
Major Edwards again declaring his opinion, that the

158 Alexander Hamilton

affair ought to end where it was, General Lee then
expressed his confidence in the honor of the gentle-
men concerned as seconds, and said he should be
willing to comply with whatever they should coolly
and deliberately determine. Col. Laurens consented
to the same.

Col. Hamilton and Major Edwards withdrew, and
conversing awhile on the subject, still concurred fully
in the opinion, that, for the most urgent reasons, the
affair should terminate as it was then circumstanced.
This decision was communicated to the parties and
agreed to by them, upon which they immediately re-
turned to town; General Lee slightly wounded in
the right side.

During the interview a conversation to the follow-
ing purport passed between General Lee and Col.
Laurens. On Col. Hamilton's intimating the idea of
personal enmity, as before mentioned, General Lee
declared he had none, and had only met Col. Laurens
to defend his own honor; that Mr. Laurens best
knew whether there was any on his part. Col.
Laurens replied, that General Lee was acquainted
with the motives that had brought him there, which
were that he had been informed, from what he
thought good authority, that General Lee had
spoken of General Washington in the grossest and
most opprobrious terms of personal abuse, which he,
Col. Laurens, thought himself bound to resent, as
well on account of the relation he bore to General
Washington, as from motives of personal friendship
and respect for his character. General Lee acknow-
ledged that he had given his opinion against General

Private Correspondence 159

Washington's military character to his particular
friends, and might perhaps do it again. He said
every man had a right to give his sentiments freely of
military characters, and that he did not think him-
self personally accountable to Col. Laurens for what
he had done in that respect. But he said he never
had spoken of General Washington in the terms
mentioned, which he could not have done, as well
because he had always esteemed General Washington
as a man, as because such abuse would be incom-
patible with the character he would ever wish to
sustain as a gentleman.

Upon the whole we think it a piece of justice to the
two gentlemen to declare, that after they met their
conduct was strongly marked with all the politeness,
generosity, coolness, and firmness that ought to
characterize a transaction of this nature.

Alex. Hamilton.
Ev. Edwards.

Philad., Decemr. 24, 1778.

TO THE HONORABLE JOHN JAY, PRESIDENT OF
CONGRESS

Headquarters, March 14, 1779.

Dear Sir:

Colonel Laurens, who will have the honor of de-
livering you this letter, is on his way to South
Carolina, on a project which I think, in the present
situation of affairs there, is a very good one, and
deserves every kind of support and encouragement.
This is to raise two, three, or four battalions of
negroes, with the assistance of the government of

i6o Alexander Hamilton

that State, by contributions from the owners, in
proportion to the number they possess. If you
should think proper to enter upon the subject with
him, he will give you a detail of his plan. He wishes
to have it recommended by Congress to the State;
and, as an inducement, that they would engage to
take their battalions into Continental pay.

It appears to me that an expedient of this kind, in
the present state of Southern affairs, is the most
rational that can be adopted, and promises very
important advantages. Indeed, I hardly see how a
sufficient force can be collected in that quarter with-
out it; and the enemy's operations there are growing
infinitely serious and formidable. I have not the
least doubt that the negroes will make very excellent
soldiers, with proper management; and I will ven-
ture to pronounce, that they cannot be put in better
hands than those of Mr. Laurens. He has all the
zeal, intelligence, enterprise, and every other qualifi-
cation requisite to succeed in such an undertaking.
It is a maxim with some great military judges, that,
with sensible officers, soldiers can hardly be too
stupid; and, on this principle, it is thought that the
Russians would make the best soldiers in the world,
if they were under other officers than their own. The
king of Prussia is among the number who maintains
this doctrine, and has a very emphatic saying on the
occasion, which I do not exactly recollect. I men-
tion this because I have frequently heard it objected
to the scheme of embodying negroes, that they are
too stupid to make soldiers. This is so far from
appearing to me a valid objection, that I think their

Private Correspondence i6i

want of cultivation (for their natural faculties are as
good as ours), joined to that habit of subordination
which they acquire from a life of servitude, will
enable them sooner to become soldiers than our
white inhabitants. Let officers be men of sense and
sentiment; and the nearer the soldiers approach to
machines, perhaps the better.

I foresee that this project will have to combat
much opposition from prejudice and self-interest.
The contempt we have been taught to entertain for
the blacks, makes us fancy many things that are
founded neither in reason nor experience; and an
unwillingness to part with property of so valuable a
kind, will furnish a thousand arguments to show the
impracticability, or pernicious tendency, of a scheme
which requires such sacrifices. But it should be
considered, that if we do not make use of them in
this way, the enemy probably will ; and that the best
way to counteract the temptations they will hold
out, will be to offer them ourselves. An essential
part of the plan is to give them their freedom with
their swords. This will secure their fidelity, animate
their courage, and, I believe, will have a good in-
fluence upon those who remain, by opening a door to
their emancipation. This circumstance, I confess,
has no small weight in inducing me to wish the suc-
cess of the project; for the dictates of humanity,
and true policy, equally interest me in favor of this
unfortunate class of men.

While I am on the subject of Southern affairs, you
will excuse the liberty I take in saying, that I do not
think measures sufficiently vigorous are pursuing for

VOL, IX.— II.

i62 Alexander Hamilton

our defence in that quarter. Except the few regular
troops of South Carolina, we seem to be relying
wholly on the militia of that and the two neighboring
States. These will soon grow impatient of service,
and leave our affairs in a miserable situation. No
considerable force can be uniformly kept up by
militia; to say nothing of the many obvious and
well-known inconveniences that attend this kind of
troops. I would beg leave to suggest, sir, that no
time ought to be lost in making a draught of militia
to serve a twelvemonth, from the States of North
and South Carolina and Virginia. But South Caro-
lina, being very weak in her population of whites,
may be excused from the draught, on condition of
furnishing the black battalions. The two others
may furnish about three thousand five hundred men,
and be exempted, on that account, from sending any
succors to this army. The States to the northward
of Virginia will be fully able to give competent sup-
plies to the army here; and it will require all the
force and exertions of the three States I have men-
tioned to withstand the storm which has arisen and
is increasing in the South.

The troops draughted must be thrown into bat-
talions, and officered in the best possible manner.
The supernumerary officers may be made use of as
far as they will go. If arms are wanted for their
troops, and no better way of supplying them is to be
found, we should endeavor to levy a contribution
of arms upon the militia at large. Extraordinary
exigencies demand extraordinary means. I fear this
Southern business will become a very grave one.

Private Correspondence 163

TO MISS LIVINGSTON '

Headquarters, March 18, 1779.

I can hardly forgive an application to my humanity
to induce me to exert my influence in an affair in
which ladies are concerned, and especially when you
are of the party. Had you appealed to my friend-
ship or to my gallantry, it would have been irresisti-
ble. I should have thought myself bound to have
set prudence and policy at defiance, and even to
have attacked wind- mills in your ladyship's service.
I am not sure but my imagination would have gone
so far as to have fancied New York an enchanted
castle — the three ladies so many fair damsels rav-
ished from their friends and held in captivity by the
spells of some wicked magician — General Clinton, a
huge giant, placed as keeper of the gates — and my-
self, a valorous knight, destined to be their champion
and deliverer.

But when, instead of availing yourself of so much
better titles, you appealed to the cold, general princi-
ple of humanity, I confess I felt myself mortified, and
determined, by way of revenge, to mortify you in
turn. I resolved to show you that all the eloquence
of your fine pen could not tempt our Fabius to do
wrong ; and, avoiding any representation of my own,
I put your letter into his hands and let it speak for
itself. I knew, indeed, this would expose his resolu-
tion to a severer trial than it could experience in any
other way, and I was not without my fears for the

^ Miss Livingston was the daughter of Gov. Livingston, of New
Jersey, and had asked Hamilton to procure a pass through the Ameri-
can hnes for some friends Hving in New York.

1 64 Alexander Hamilton

event, but if it should decide against you, I antici-
pated the triumph of letting you see your influence
had failed. I congratulated myself on the success
of my scheme; for, though there was a harder
struggle upon the occasion between inclination and
duty, than it would be for his honor to tell; yet he
at last had the courage to determine that, as he could
not indulge the ladies with consistency and propriety,
he would not run the risk of being charged with a
breach of both. This he desired me to tell you,
though, to be sure, it was done in a different manner,
interlarded with many assurances of his great desire
to oblige you, and of his regret that he could not do
it in the present case, with a deal of stuff of the same
kind, which I have too good an opinion of your under-
standing to repeat. I shall, therefore, only tell you
that whether the Governor and the General are more
honest or more perverse than other people, they have
a very odd knack of thinking alike; and it happens
in the present case that they both equally disap-
prove the intercourse you mention, and have taken
pains to discourage it. I shall leave you to make
your own reflections upon this, with only one more
observation, which is that the ladies for whom you
apply would have every claim to be gratified, were
it not that it would operate as a bad precedent. But,
before I conclude, it will be necessary to explain one
point. This refusal supposes that the ladies mean
only to make a visit and return to New York. If it
should be their intention to remain with us, the case
will be altered. There will be no rule against their
coming out, and they will be an acquisition. But

Private Correspondence 165

this is subject to two provisos — ist, that they are not
found guilty of treason or any misdemeanor punish-
able by the laws of the State, in which case the
General can have no power to protect them; and,
2dly, that the ladies on our side do not apprehend
any inconvenience from increasing their number.
Trifling apart, there is nothing could give me greater
pleasure than to have been able to serve Miss Living-
ston and her friends on this occasion, but circum-
stances really did not permit it. I am persuaded she
has too just an opinion of the General's politeness
not to be convinced that he would be happy to do
any thing which his public character would justify in
an affair so interesting to the tender feelings of so
many ladies. The delicacy of her own ideas will
easily comprehend the delicacy of his situation; —
she knows the esteem of her friend,

A. Hamilton.

The General and Mrs. Washington present their
compliments.'

TO BARON STEUBEN

May 26, 1779.

The General, on reflection, is a little uneasy about
the route you intend to take. He thinks it not
quite safe, as the enemy have troops on Long Island
and may easily throw a party across the Sound, so
that you would be in danger of having your agreeable
dreams interrupted, if you should sleep any where
from New Haven to Fairfield.

^ Reprinted from Sedgwick's Life of Wm. Livingston, p. 320.

1 66 Alexander Hamilton

It is probable one of the Count's motives in coming
this way may be to see the ruins of those places ; and
if he could do it without risk, it would be desirable ;
but he would not probably be at his ease if in conse-
quence of it he should be obliged to attend the levee
of Sir Henry Clinton. This may happen if he con-
tinues his intention, unless very good precautions
are taken to avoid the danger. The General recom-
mends it to you at least to be very vigilant upon
your post, and not to suffer yourself to be surprised.
You will be so good as to let us have timely notice of
your approach, as we shall, at least, meet you at
Fishkill Landing with boats to take you down to
headquarters.

TO OTHO H. WILLIAMS '

June II, 1779.

Dear Williams :

The General sends you four fresh horsemen to en-
able you to transmit him intelligence. The General
will take the road you marched to your quarters.

Mind your eye, my dear boy, and if you have an
opportunity, fight hard.

TO MAJOR LEE OR, IN HIS ABSENCE, CAPT. McLANE

July, 1779.

Sir:

There is an encampment of the enemy, or a de-
monstration of one, which appears on the other side

^ Major Otho H. Williams, of Maryland, afterwards a brigadier-
general, and always a warm friend of Hamilton.

Private Correspondence 167

of the river, considerably on this side of Tarrytov^n.
You will be pleased in consequence to have patrols
kept from this till morning seven or eight miles down
along the shore and on the roads leading to this
place on our right. This may be a critical night,
and demands the greatest vigilance.

TO COL. DAVID HENLEY '

Headquarters, New Windsor, July 12, 1779.

Dear Sir:

I take the liberty to trouble you with a letter for
Mr. Dana, which I have left open for your perusal;
and I request it as a favor which I hope I may claim
from your friendship to deliver it to him and press
for a speedy answer. I think you sufficiently know
my character and way of thinking to be convinced
I could never have expressed sentiments of the kind
imputed to me ; and you will therefore be the more
ready to afford me your good offices upon this occa-
sion. There is no other gentleman in Boston whose
friendship I could so far intrude upon."*

' Colonel David Henley, a brave officer of the Revolutionary War.
This letter and certain others which follow relate to a remark attributed
to Hamilton by Doctor Gordon, the historian of the Revolution. The
most careful search has failed to discover the letters to Mr. Dana, but
the "Calumny" of Dr. Gordon is shown, by a letter to Laurens (Sept.
II, 1779), given below, page 173, to have been that he quoted Hamilton
as saying that he wished the people to rise, join General Washington,
and turn Congress out of doors. The letters are interesting, because
they are so extremely characteristic of the writer. The Mr. Dana re-
ferred to apparently was Francis Dana, of Massachusetts, afterwards a
Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, and Commissioner
to France.

2 Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

1 68 Alexander Hamilton

TO COL. JOHN BROOKS '

West Point, Aug. 6, 1779.

Dear Sir:

I enclose you the copy of a letter which I received
by the last post from Mr. Dana. You will perceive,
he says, he does not recollect or imagine that he
threw out the observation mentioned by you re-
specting the probability of my having made the de-
claration with which I am charged; but believes it
was used by some other person in company, and that
you had unintentionally blended the conversation.
As I am anxious to have this affair developed in all
its circumstances in a clear and unequivocal man-
ner, I request you will do me the favor to inform me
whether your memory in this particular is distinct
and positive, or whether it is probable you may have
committed the mistake which Mr. Dana supposes.
In the last case I shall be obliged to you to endeavor
to recollect the real author of the insinuation. Any
other remarks which Mr. Dana's statement of the
matter may appear to you to require will add to the
obligation you have already conferred on, sir, etc.

P. S. — I shall thank you for your answer to-mor-
row that I may have time to take the necessary
measures before the next post sets out.^

I Colonel John Brooks, of Massachusetts, a gallant soldier of the
Revolution, Adjutant-General of the State during the War of 181 2 and
Governor from i8i6to 1823. The letter also relates to the affair with
Dr. Gordon.

* Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

Private Correspondence 169

TO DR. WILLIAM GORDON '

West Point, Aug. lo, 1779.

Sir:

You will find by the enclosed copy of a letter of
the 25th of July from Mr. Dana, that he mentions
you as his author for a charge of a very singular na-
ture, that has been brought against me, relative to
a declaration which I am said to have made in the
public coffee-house at Philadelphia. Conscious that
this charge is totally destitute of foundation, I owe
it to myself to investigate its source, and evince its
falsehood; and as I cannot but believe that you
have too great a regard to the interests of truth and
justice to withhold your aid in detecting the inventor
of a calumny, I persuade myself you will cheerfully
disclose the authority on which your information to
Mr. Dana was founded. This I now call for, and you
will no doubt consider it a duty as well to yourself
as to me, to give an immediate, direct, and explicit
answer; sensible that the least hesitation or reserve
may give room for conjectures which it can be neither
your wish nor mine to excite. Col. Henley will do
me the favor to receive and forward your letter.^

TO JAMES DUANE ^

August 28, 1779.

Dear Sir:

I with pleasure snatch a moment, agreeable to
your request, to inform you of the events which have

' Dr. William Gordon, an English clergyman, who was in this coimtry
during the Revolution and wrote a history of the war.

* Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

3 The eminent patriot and lawyer of New York and a leader in
Congress.

170 Alexander Hamilton

taken place since you left us. A York paper of the
24th announces the arrival of the Russell of 74, which
parted three days before from Arbuthnot's fleet,
which was of course momently expected. Subse-
quent intelligence gives us the arrival of the whole
fleet. This comes through different channels, and
is believed; but we have no particulars. Wayne is
still safe.

Northern news says that Sir George Collier, having
appeared in Penobscot River, put our grand fleet to
the rout. They were run ashore, abandoned, and
burnt; the troops and seamen safe. Colonel Jack-
son's regiment, which had been sent as a reinforce-
ment, landed at Portsmouth. This account comes
in a letter from General Gates to Colonel Hay. To
counterbalance the bad in a degree, he tells me three
of our Continental frigates were arrived at Boston
with six sail out of ten of the Jamaica fleet, which
had fallen into their hands, containing five thousand
hogsheads of rum and sugar.

TO BARON STEUBEN

September, 1779.

Dear Baron:

I am at this moment honored with your letter of
the 30th ultimo, and have communicated that part
of it which concerns M. De la Luzerne ' to the Gen-
eral ; agreeably to which we shall take oiir measures
on the reception of this private public gentleman.
We had prepared a party of cavalry to receive him
at Fishkill, on the supposition that he would set out

' French Minister to the United States.

Private Correspondence 171

with an escort from Boston; but we have now sent
orders to the party immediately to take the route you
mention to Hartford, and there place themselves
imder your orders.

The General requests you will make his respectful
compliments to your Chevalier, and gives you carte
blanche to say every handsome thing you think
proper in his name of the pleasure which this visit
will give him. I have no doubt that your portrait,
which appears to be executed en maitre, will be
found a just representation of the original; and if he
is as happy as his predecessor in gaining the esteem
and confidence of the men of this country, with so
many talents to conciliate the leaders, his ministry
will not be unsuccessful. I augur well for him.
Gen. Washington proposes to meet him as a private
gentleman at Fishkill.

TO JAMES DUANE

September 7, 1779.

My Dear Sir:

I this day received your letter of the 4th, with one
enclosed for Col. Washington, which was immedi-
ately forwarded. You do not mention the receipt
of a line from me, which I wrote several days since,
giving you an account of Arbuthnot's arrival.

The current of our intelligence makes the rein-
forcement with him amount to about three thousand,
mostly recruits, and in bad health; it is said some
preparations are making for an expedition, and
there are various conjectures about the object:

172 Alexander Hamilton

some point to the Southward; perhaps the true
destination is the West Indies. But, I confess, I
should not be surprised if the enemy should make a
further and vigorous attempt to gain possession of
two or three of the Southern States. If their affairs
are so desperate with respect to alliance as we are
told, the object of the war on their side, from con-
quest, must necessarily change to pacification. The
acquisition of two or three of the Southern States
would be a handsome counterpoise to their losses in
the Islands, and would enable them to negotiate
with the more credit and success the ensuing winter.
I am happy to have it in my power to gratify your
curiosity about the Western expedition with the
enclosed agreeable account. It is the substance of
a letter from General Sullivan of the 30th, extracted
at Col. Hay's request, for Mr. Lowdon's paper. The
facts are all true, though you will perceive I have
given it a few of the usual embellishments of a news-
paper paragraph. I have not specified the number
of Gen. Sullivan's wounded; they amount to thirty-
nine, among which are Major Titcomb and two other
officers. This is a pleasing and, I hope, decisive
event.

TO COLONEL JOHN BROOKS

Headquarters, Sept. 10, 1779.

Dear Sir:

I send you, merely by way of information, the copy
of a letter of the 25th of August which I yesterday
received from Mr. Dana. I have only to request

Private Correspondence 173

that you will be good enough to inform me of the
names of all the gentlemen that composed the com-
pany before which I had the honor of being exhibited
on the occasion in question. '

TO JOHN LAURENS'

West Point, Sept. ii, 1779.

From the current of intelligence, an embarkation
is on foot at New York. A little time will develop
its destination. I hope it may disappoint my con-
jectures. The general opinion points to the West
Indies; and, upon the whole, I believe myself the
plan of Southern operations is too bold and enlarged
for the feeble, shivering, contracted councils of
Britain. The naval force that arrived under Ar-
buthnot, by the best intelligence, consists of two
ships-of-the-line, two fifty-gun, and two smaller frig-
ates. Some seamen — deserters — report that they
made at sea two detachments of troops: one for
Quebec, the other to Halifax — each under convoy
of a vessel of the line. If Arbuthnot goes to the
West Indies, Byron will still be inferior to D'Estaing,
to say nothing of the Spanish fleet in that quarter.
The troops and seamen arrived in a very sickly con-
dition.

' Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

2 Col. John Laurens, of South Carolina, whose name has already
occurred frequently in this correspondence, was the son of Henry
Laurens. He was a member of Washington's staff, and Hamilton's
most intimate friend. He was one of the most dashing and brilliant
of the youthful officers of the Revolution, and fell in a skirmish Aug.
27, 1782, when the war was nearly over. In 1780 he went to France as a
commissioner on the loan, and was in all ways one of the most promis-
ing men of the period.

174 Alexander Hamilton

We have just received an account that looks like
the approach of D'Estaing to our continent. A
vessel arrived at Boston mentions having parted
with him in lat. 25°, long. 70°; steering N. W., with
six thousand troops on board taken in at the Cape,
bound for Georgia, and afterwards northward. If
this should be true, you will probably hear of him
before this reaches you; but he may, perhaps, push
directly northward, to lay the axe to the root. This
will be a master-stroke, and fix D'Estaing's char-
acter as a first-rate officer. The reduction of the
enemy's fleets and armies in America will make all
their islands fall of course, deprive them of supplies
from this continent, and enable us to second opera-
tions of the French with ample succors of provisions.
If he touches at Georgia for your relief, and continues
his progress northward, you, I know, will endeavor
to keep pace with him and make us happy again.
The lads all join me in embracing you most affection-
ately. Pray let me hear from you frequently, and
deal a little in military details, as you expect the
same from me. The Philadelphia papers will tell
you of a handsome stroke by Lee ' on Powle's Hook.
Some folks in the Virginia line, jealous of his glory,
had the folly to get him arrested. He has been tried
and acquitted with the highest honor. Lee unfolds
himself more and more to be an officer of great ca-
pacity, and if he had not a little spice of the Julius
Caesar or Cromwell in him, he would be a very clever
fellow. Adieu.

Apropos, speaking of a Cassar and a Cromwell,

' Henry Lee, of Virginia, "Light-Horse Harry."

Private Correspondence 175

don't you think the Cabal have reported that I de-
clared in a public house in Philadelphia that it was
high time for the people to rise, join General Wash-
ington, and turn Congress out of doors? I am run-
ning the rogues pretty hard. Dana was the first
mentioned to me. He has given up Dr. Gordon, of
Jamaica Plains. You well remember the old Jesuit.
He made us a visit at Fredericksburg, and is writing
the history of America. The proverb is verified, —
'' There never was any mischief, but had a priest or a
woman at the bottom." I doubt not subornation
and every species of villainy will be made use of to
cover the villainy of the attack. I have written to
Gordon, and what do you think is his answer? — ^he
will give up his author if I will pledge my honor
" neither to give nor accept a challenge, to cause it to
be given or accepted, nor to engage in any encounter
that may produce a duel." Pleasant terms enough.
I am first to be calumniated, and then, if my calum-
niator takes it into his head, I am to bear a cudgelling
from him with Christian patience and forbearance;
for the terms required, if pursued to their conse-
quences, come to this. I have ridiculed the pro-
posal, and insisted on the author, on the principle
of unconditional submission. What the Doctor's
impudence will answer, I know not. But you who
know my sentiments will know how to join me in
despising these miserable detractors. On revising
my work, I find several strokes of the true schoolboy
sublime. Pray let them pass, and admire them if
you can.'

' Reprinted from Moore's Memoir of Laurens, p. 154.

176 Alexander Hamilton

TO JAMES DUANE

West Point, Sept. 14, 1779.

My Dear Sir:

I do not recollect whether I said any thing in my
last about the strength of the reinforcement with
Arbuthnot. All the accounts agree that it does not
exceed 3,000, mostly recruits, and in very bad health;
it is said more than a thousand died on the passage,
and a greater part of the remainder are journeying
fast to the other world. Disease prevails also in the
other parts of the army and among the inhabitants,
more than has been known at any time since the
enemy has been in possession of the city. They have
been of late making extensive preparations for em-
barking troops, and we have just received advice
that two German and one British regiment sailed
from New York on the i ith, under convoy of a sixty-
four. The rumors about the destination are various.
The West Indies, Georgia, Canada, are all talked of,
but the first with most confidence, and is no doubt
most probable. Our intelligence announces a con-
tinuance of the embarkation.

A vessel, lately arrived at Boston from the Cape,
reports that she sailed from that place in company
with Count D'Estaing, with twenty-five sail of the
line and some transports, containing 6,000 troops
taken in at the Cape, and bound first to Georgia and
afterwards farther northward. She parted with the
fleet in latitude 25^, longitude 74°. Two other ves-
sels, arrived at some place in Connecticut, pretend
that they parted with a French fleet of men-of-war
and transports, in the latitude of Bermuda, steering

Private Correspondence 177

for this coast. These concurrent accounts are not
entirely unworthy of attention, though I am not dis-
posed to give them entire credit.

The reduction of the enemy's fleets and armies in
this country would be the surest method to effect
the complete conquest of the Islands, and it would
be one of the most fatal strokes Great Britain could
receive. The stamina of their military establishment
are in this country. The ruin of this, and the cap-
ture of their seamen and ships, would be an irrecov-
erable loss. The West Indies would scarcely have
any further prospect of succor, and would be obliged
to submit to the power of France almost without re-
sistance, which might then operate at leisure, aided
by ample supplies from this continent, which I be-
lieve are the principal thing wanting.

These reasons may have induced the Count to
make us a visit during the season of inactivity in the
West Indies; or, if he does not come himself, if by
forming a junction with the Spanish fleet he can
make a detachment this way, and still maintain a
superiority for operation in that quarter, this per-
haps will make the event more probable than on the
former supposition. I have now given you all the
intelligence we have, and have mixed certainties,
rumors, and conjectures. You will extract and be-
lieve as much as you think proper.

The General and family charge me to present their
most affectionate respects. We are to receive the
new minister to-morrow morning.

VOL. IX.— la.

178 Alexander Hamilton

TO JAMES DUANE

October i, 1779.

I am much obliged to you, my dear sir, for your
two letters of the i6th and 23d. In haste I snatch
up my pen by an express going off to the Governor,
to give you the news as it runs. The most important
and best authenticated is, that Count D'Estaing has
arrived on the coast of Georgia. The tale runs thus :
We are in possession of a Charleston paper of the 6th
of September, which mentions that the Viscount de
Fontanges ' had arrived at that place, sent by the
Count to annoimce his approach. Mr. Mitchel, who
transmits the paper, adds that by the express which
brought it Mr. Gerard "" had received dispatches
from the Count informing him of his intention to
attack the enemy in Georgia on the 9th; that in
consequence of this intelligence Mr. Gerard had post-
poned his voyage a few days to be the bearer of the
event. This, I hope, puts a period to the danger of
the Southern States, for which I could not help hav-
ing strong apprehensions, notwithstanding the pre-
simiption drawn from the enemies' past folly against
their pursuing any plan favorable to their interest.
I acknowledge the force of the argument, but I was
afraid they might for once blunder upon the right
way. The departure of Comwallis on the 25th,
with the grenadiers, light infantry, and one British
regiment, had increased my horrors on this subject.
The nature of this corps pointed to a temporary
service for some important coup de main. Charleston

1 Adjutant-General of the French army.

2 The French Minister.

Private Correspondence 179

presented itself as the only object. They would
hardly separate the flower of their troops for any
remote and permanent station. They are continu-
ing their embarkation. The accounts we have of
the particular corps carry them to between five and
six thousand. I send you a Boston paper of the
23d containing some interesting European advices.

P. S. — The General is happy in the hopes you give
him of a speedy visit from General Schuyler and
yourself, and orders me to present his respects to
both. The family join in every sentiment of perfect
esteem.

DU PORTAIL AND HAMILTON TO WASHINGTON '

Great Egg Harbor Landing, Oct. 26, 1779.

Sir:

We are honored with two letters from your Ex-
cellency of the loth and 21st, to the contents of
which we beg leave to assure you of our strictest
attention.

That of the i8th has not yet come to hand. It is
not improbable it has gone round by Lewistown, which
has occasioned the delay.

Colonel Hamilton wrote to your Excellency from
Philadelphia, acquainting you with our arrival there
and our intention to proceed to Lewistown, Cape

^ Hamilton and General Du Portailwere sent by Washington to meet
the Count D'Estaing on his way up the coast with the French fleet and
arrange for his cooperation with our forces. Lebegue Du Portail,
general in the French army, came to the United States with Lafayette,
and was a valued officer. After the revolution began in France he was
made minister of War by Lafayette's influence, and fell with the latter.
He remained long in hiding and finally escaped to America, and died
at sea on his way back to France after the i8th Brumaire.

i8o Alexander Hamilton

Henlopen, and from Great Egg Harbor, commimi-
cating our progress since, and our determination to
establish ourselves at Batsto Furnace. We have
since fixed on this place, about forty-four miles from
the extremity of Cape May (eighteen miles short of
the Furnace, which we found to be more remote than
had been represented), and, as far as we have been
able to learn, from one hundred to one hundred and
ten miles from Sandy Hook, and about fifty from
Philadelphia. Your Excellency will easily perceive
the reason of our choosing this station. It did not
appear to us, from our inquiries in Philadelphia, to
be a point well ascertained that the fleet would stop
at the Delaware, and the time which had elapsed
made it more possible, if the Count should be deter-
mined to prosecute any further operations on the
Continent, that he would not lose time by a pro-
cedure of this sort, but might content himself with
sending some transports, under escort of a few frig-
ates, to receive the provisions for the fleet, and
proceed himself directly on to the Hook. On this
supposition our position at Lewistown was entirely
ineligible. The distance at which we were from the
city as well as from the Hook, the delays that would
consequently attend our intelligence from every
quarter, the difficulty and impossibility, sometimes,
of traversing the bay, made our first situation incon-
venient in every respect in the event of the fleet's
proceeding immediately to the Hook. These con-
siderations induced us to cross the Delaware and
take the position at which we now are, where, or in
the vicinity, we propose to remain till the arrival of

Private Correspondence i8i

the Count, till intelligence from him decides the in-
utility of a longer stay, or till we receive your Ex-
cellency's orders of recall.

We have now a better relation to the different
points in which we are interested, and have taken
the necessary precautions to gain the earliest no-
tice of whatever happens. We have stationed ex-
presses at the pitch of the Cape, and have established
a regular communication with Major Lee, and with
the city. If the fleet should appear off the Dela-
ware, we can be there in twelve hours after its first
appearance; and if at the Hook, in less than four
days; provided Major Lee is punctual in conveying
the intelligence, and the expresses from either side,
in bringing it.

By recent information from Philadelphia (though
not quite so distinct and accurate as we could wish) ,
we find, that so late as the fourth of this month, the
Coimt, as yet, was to open his batteries against the
enemy at Savannah. The time that will probably
intervene between this and the final reduction, the
re-embarkation of the Count's troops, the disposi-
tions for sailing, and his arrival on this coast, may,
we fear, exhaust the season too much to permit of
the co-operation to which our mission relates.

We do not, however, despair; for if the Count has
been fully successful to the southward, and should
shortly arrive (which may be the case), the enter-
prise may possibly go on."

I The attack upon Savannah was made on Oct. 9th. The assault
was a gallant one, but the combined French and American forces were
repulsed by the British with heavy losses.

1 82 Alexander Hamilton

In a letter from Major Lee, of the 2 2d, he informs
us, that a vessel from Georgia arrived on the i6th;
since which the two sixty-fours, and the Renown,
which were at the Hook, had fallen down towards
New York; and the troops at the Hook had em-
barked and gone to the city. At first sight, this ac-
coimt alarmed us, and made us apprehensive that
the enemy had received some favorable advices from
the southward which put them out of danger, and
superseded the necessity of continuing their pre-
parations for defence. But, on further reflection,
we think it more probable, that this is only a change
of disposition; and that finding, on closer examina-
tion, they would be unable to defend the Hook, they
had determined to relinquish the attempt.

This seems the more likely, as Major Lee mentions,
that a part of the hulks, sunk in the channel, had
gotten afloat and drifted ashore.

To this experience of the difficulty of obstructing
the channel, may, perhaps, be attributed the change
we suppose. And we are confirmed in this conjec-
ture, by the evacuation of the two posts at King's
Ferry, which appears by your Excellency's letter to
have taken place on the 21st, five days after the sup-
posed arrival of the vessel from Georgia; a proof
that they had not received information of any de-
cisive good fortune on their side, or ill fortime on
ours ; and that they persisted in their defensive plan.
We are persuaded, too, that their exultation would
have given wings to any good news they might
have received, and that it would have reached us
before this. Were the season less advanced, we

Private Correspondence 183

should regret the change of disposition ; because we
believe the attempt to defend the entrance of the
Hook v^ould have been fruitless ; and it might have
thrown a part of their ships and of their troops into
our hands, in the first instance, which could not fail
to facilitate the successive operations.

But, at this late period, it may rather be an ad-
vantage. To force the passage might have required
land operations against the Hook, which would lose
time and expose the fleet to the hazard of winds,
which would have rendered its situation critical.
Now, the fleet may probably enter the bay, on its
first approach, and be in security; and the whole
operation will be brought to a point, and may de-
mand less time for its accomplishment.

As a large number of fascines, ready for use, ap-
pear to us essential to any operations that may be
imdertaken, we presume your Excellency has been
preparing, and will continue to prepare, as many as
possible. We beg leave to suggest the utility of
having, at the same time, a sufficient number of ga-
bions and sand bags. Of the former, Colonel Gou-
vion,^ if your Excellency thinks proper, may be
charged with the constructing: the latter may be
made under the care of the Quarter-Master at Phila-
delphia. Several thousands may be necessary. The
usual dimensions are fifteen or eighteen inches long,
and twelve wide. If, notwithstanding the advices
from Major Lee, any thing by land is to be attempted

^ Jean Baptiste Gouvion, captain in the French army and major-
general of the National Guard in 1789 He was killed before Mau-
beuge in 1792.

184 Alexander Hamilton

against the Hook, these will be peculiarly useful on
such a flat, sandy spot; and, indeed, it would be im-
practicable to construct batteries, in any reasonable
time, without them.

TO JOHN LAURENS

December, 1779.

Cold in my professions, warm in my friendships,
I wish, my dear Laurens, it may be in my power, by
actions rather than words, to convince you that I
love you. I shall only tell you that, till you bade us
adieu, I hardly knew the value you had taught my
heart to set upon you. Indeed, my friend, it was
not well done. You know the opinion I entertain of
mankind, and how much it is my desire to preserve
myself free from particular attachments, and to keep
my happiness independent of the caprices of others.
You should not have taken advantage of my sensi-
bility to steal into my affections without my consent.

But as you have done it and as we are generally
indulgent to those we love, I shall not scruple to par-
don the fraud you have committed, on one condition :
that for my sake, if not for your own, you will always
continue to merit the partiality, which you have so
artfully instilled into me.

I have received your two letters : one from Phila-
delphia, the other from Chester. I am pleased with
your success, so far — and I hope the favorable omens
that precede your application to the Assembly may
have as favorable an issue — ^provided the situation
of affairs should require it, which I fear will be the
case. But both for your country's sake and for my

Private Correspondence 185

own, I wish the enemy may be gone from Georgia
before you arrive, and that you may be obUged to
return and share the fortunes of your old friends.
In respect to the commission which you received
from Congress, all the world must think your con-
duct perfectly right. Indeed, your ideas on this oc-
casion seem not to have their wonted accuracy ; and
you have had scruples, in a great measure, without
foundation. By your appointment as aide-de-camp
to the commander-in-chief, you had as much the
rank of lieutenant-colonel as any officer in the line.
Your receiving a commission as lieutenant- colonel,
from the date of that appointment, does not in the
least injure or interfere with one of them; unless by
virtue of it you are introduced into a particular
regiment in violation of the right of succession, which
is not the case at present, neither is it a necessary
consequence. As you were going to command a
battalion, it was proper that you should have a com-
mission; and if this commission had been dated
posterior to your appointment as aide-de-camp, I
should have considered it derogatory to your former
rank, to mine, and to that of the whole corps. The
only thing I see wrong in the affair is this — Congress
by their conduct, both on the former and present
occasion, appear to have intended to confer a privi-
lege, an honor, a mark of distinction, a something
upon you, which they withheld from other gentle-
men in the family. This carries with it an air of
preference, which, though we can all truly say, we
love your character and admire your military merit,
cannot fail to give some of us uneasy sensations. But

1 86 Alexander Hamilton

in this, my dear, I wish you to understand me well.
The blame, if there is any, falls wholly upon Con-
gress. I repeat it, your conduct has been perfectly
right, and even laudable. You rejected the offer
when you ought to have rejected it; and you ac-
cepted it when you ought to have accepted it, and,
let me add, with a degree of over- scrupulous delicacy.
It was necessary to your project. Your project w^as
the public good; and I should have done the same.
In hesitating, you have refined on the refinements of
generosity.

There is a total stagnation of news here, political
and military. Gates has refused the Indian com-
mand. Sullivan is come to take it. The former has
lately given a fresh proof of his impudence, his folly,
and his rascality. T is no great matter; but a pe-
culiarity in the case prevents my saying what.

' I anticipate by sympathy the pleasure you must
feel from the sweet converse of your dearer self in
the enclosed letters. I hope they may be recent.
They were brought out of New York by General
Thompson, delivered to him there by a Mrs. Moore,
not long from England, soi disante parente de madame
votre epouse. She speaks of a daughter of yours, —
well, when she left England, and now, my dear, as
we are upon the subject of wife, I empower and com-
mand you to get me one in Carolina. Such a wife as
I want will, I know, be difficult to be found, but if
you succeed, it will be the stronger proof of your

^ This passage beginning "I anticipate" and extending as far as the
postscript, is now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State
Department.

Private Correspondence 187

zeal and dexterity. Take her description — she must
be young, handsome (I lay most stress upon a good
shape), sensible (a little learning will do), well bred
(but she must have an aversion to the word ton)y
chaste, and tender (I am an enthusiast in my notions
of fidelity and fondness), of some good nature, a
great deal of generosity (she must neither love
money nor scolding, for I dislike equally a termagant
and an economist). In politics I am indifferent
what side she may be of. I think I have arguments
that will easily convert her to mine. As to religion
a moderate stock will satisfy me. She must believe
in God and hate a saint.

But as to fortune, the larger stock of that the
better. You know my temper and circumstances
and will therefore pay special attention in the
treaty. Though I run no risk of going to Purgatory
for my avarice, yet as money is an essential ingre-
dient to happiness in this world, as I have not much
of my own, and as I am very little calculated to get
more either by my address or industry, it must needs
be that my wife, if I get one, bring at least a suffi-
ciency to administer to her own extravagancies.
N. B. — You will be pleased to recollect in your ne-
gotiations that I have no invincible antipathy to
the maidenly beauties, and that I am willing to take
the trouble of them upon myself.

If you should not readily meet with a lady that
you think answers my description, you can only ad-
vertise in the public papers, and doubtless you will
hear of many competitors for most of the qualifica-
tions required, who will be glad to become candidates

1 88 Alexander Hamilton

for such a prize as I am. To excite their emulations
it will be necessary for you to give an account of the
lover — his size, make, qualities of mind and body,
achievements, expectations, fortune, etc. In draw-
ing my picture you will no doubt be civil to your
friend, mind you do justice to the length of my nose,
and don't forget that I

After reviewing what I have written, I am ready
to ask myself what could have put it into my head
to hazard this jeu de jolie. Do I want a wife? No.
I have plagues enough without desiring to add to the
number that greatest of all ; and if I were silly enough
to do it I should take care how I employed a proxy.
Did I mean to show my wit? If I did, I am sure I
have missed my aim. Did I only intend to frisk?
In this I have succeeded, but I have done more. I
have gratified my feelings, by lengthening out the
only kind of intercourse now in my power, with my
friend.

P. S. — Fleury shall be taken care of. All the
family send their love. In this join the General and
Mrs. Washington, and what is best, it is not in the
style of ceremony but sincerity.

TO DOCTOR WILLIAM GORDON

December lo, 1779.

Sir:

As your letter of the 23d of September offered
nothing conclusive, I delayed acknowledging it till
I should receive the result of your pretended ap-
plication to your informer. This is contained in
your last of the 15th of November, which arrived

Private Correspondence 189

while I was absent from headquarters. The un-
ravelment of the plot in the ridiculous farce you have
been acting, proves, as I at first suspected, that you
are yourself the author of the calumny. Such I con-
sider you, and such I shall represent you. The re-
presentation, I am sure, will find credit with all who
know me, and the notorious bias of your disposition
to duplicity and slander will give it sanction with all
who are acquainted with you. I shall use the less
ceremony, as I am well informed you have established
a character which, in the opinion of every man of
sense, has forfeited all title to the delicacy of treat-
ment usually attached to your function. I only
lament that respect to myself obliges me to confine
the expression of my contempt to words.

The feint you make of involving Congress in a
business little worthy of their attention, I regard as
a mere trick to elude my demands for a discovery
which you are unable to make. And, as I have no
hope of bringing the affair to a more satisfactory
issue, I now put an end to the correspondence on my
part, and shall only add a repetition of what I before
said, that I have no objection to any part of my con-
duct being canvassed before any tribtinal whatever.'

TO WASHINGTON

MoRRisTOWN May 2, 1780.

Dear Sir:

I am extremely sorry your Excellency has been
troubled with the affair to which the papers trans-

^ Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

igo Alexander Hamilton

mitted in your letter of this morning relate. Ad-
mitting the possibility of Doctor Gordon's not being
the author of what I must always call a calimmy,
and had he not been an irreconcilable enemy to
plain dealing, the matter might have been brought
to a very easy issue without the necessity of an
appeal to you. My determination, however, on the
contents of his letter will be a very summary one. I
shall not follow him in his labored digressions, be-
cause the scope of some of them is to me unintelli-
gible, and the rest do not merit an answer.

So far from being disposed to comply with the
Doctor's conditions to avoid an inquiry, I consider
the proposal he makes as a finishing stroke to that
display of absurdity, littleness, and effrontery which
characterizes the whole proceeding on his part, and
I defy the utmost extent of his malignity and in-
trigue. I shall ever continue to hold him in the
highest contempt, — to believe him to be the con-
niver of the charge against me till he gives up some
other person as the author, and to represent him as
such to all those with whom I have occasion to con-
verse on the subject. I shall always speak of him
in those terms which a sense of injury and a con-
viction of his worthlessness dictate.

I hope your Excellency will excuse the asperity of
my expressions, which my respect for you would in-
duce me to suppress, did I not owe it to my sensi-
bility, wounded by the most barbarous attack upon
my reputation and principles, to speak without re-
serve. I flatter myself you, sir, are too well ac-
quainted with my way of thinking to entertain the

Private Correspondence 191

least doubt of my innocence, and I beg leave to as-
sure you that nothing will give me greater pleasure
than to have the matter properly investigated.

I am only apprehensive that the Doctor will so
manage it as that it will be found inexpedient to bring
it to a public discussion, and that the knowledge of
circumstances will be confined to a few, to be handed
about as may best suit his purposes, to the prejudice
of my character. Your Excellency, too, I trust, will
see the propriety of that delicacy by which I am with-
held from making any formal appeal to public au-
thority in my own justification. 'T is the business
of my accuser to bring me to justice, and, by antici-
pating him, I should not fail to incur the imputation
of self-importance. I return your Excellency the
papers from Doctor Gordon. '

TO BARON STEUBEN

May 10, 1780.

Dear Baron:

General Knox, in conversation, has observed to
the General, that instead of sending to Philadelphia
for the fifteen hundred arms mentioned in your letter
of the sixth, and sending those here to that place to
be fitted, it would be a great saving of expense, in
the article of transportation, to have the bayonets
and accoutrements brought on without the arms,
and fitted to those now here; which can be easily
done at the Park. The question is, if the arms here

I Now first printed from the Hamilton papers. It does not appear
that Dr. Gordon ever brought the matter to the notice of the authorities
of the state.

192 Alexander Hamilton

have no other defect than want of bayonets. The
General will be glad to know what you think of Gen-
eral Knox's proposal. It seems to him eligible, unless
there are reasons he is not acquainted with.

If there are any other articles you wish to have
sent for (the General thinks you mentioned some-
thing of the kind to him), he will be glad to know
what they are.

We have heard from the Marquis. He will be
here at dinner. Will you dine with us also? The
General requests it.

TO JAMES DUANE

May 14, 1780.

My Dear Sir:

This will be handed you by the Marquis (de Lafay-
ette), who brings us very important intelligence.
The General commimicates the substance of it in a
private letter to you, and proposes a measure which
all deem essential.' For God's sake, my dear sir,
engage Congress to adopt it, and come to a speedy
decision. We have not a moment to lose. Were
we to improve every instant of the interval, we
should have too little time for what we have to do.
The expected succor may arrive in the beginning
of June; in all probability it will not be later than
the middle. In the last case we have not a month

^ Writings of Washington, vii., 32. Lafayette brought news of the
coming of the French fleet with the army of Rochambeau. The
measure urged by Washington was the appointment of a committee by
Congress with full powers to raise men and supplies and to arrange for
cooperation with the French. A committee was raised as Washington
suggested, and consisted of Philip Schuyler, John Mathews, and
Nathaniel Peabody.

Private Correspondence 193

to make our preparations in, and in this short pe-
riod we must collect men, form magazines, and do
a thousand things of as much difficulty as im-
portance. The propriety of the measure proposed
is so obvious that an hour ought to decide it, and
if any new members are to come, they ought to set
out instantly with all expedition for headquarters.

Allow me, my dear sir, to give you a hint. The
General will often be glad to consult the committee
on particular points, but it will be inexpedient that
he should be obliged to do it oftener than he thinks
proper, or any peculiar case may require. Their
powers should be formed accordingly. It is the
essence of many military operations, that they
should be trusted to as few as possible.

The Marquis has a title to all the love of all Amer-
ica ; but you know he has a thousand little whims to
satisfy ; one of these he will have me to write to some
friend in Congress about. He is desirous of having
the captain of the frigate in which he came compli-
mented; and gives several pretty instances of his
punctuality and disinterestedness. He wishes Con-
gress to pass some resolutions of thanks, and to
recommend him to their minister in France, to be
recommended to the French court. The first of these
is practicable. The last I think might have an offi-
cious appearance. The essential services the Mar-
quis has rendered America in France give him a
claim for all that can be done with propriety; but
Congress must not commit themselves.

Again, my dear sir, I must entreat you to use the
spur on the present occasion. The fate of America

VOL. IX.— 13.

194 Alexander Hamilton

is perhaps suspended on the issue; if we are found
unprepared, it must disgrace us in the eyes of all
Europe, besides defeating the good intentions of our
allies, and losing the happiest opportunity we ever
have had to save ourselves.

TO GENERAL GREENE

May i6, 1780.

My Dear General:

When you ask my opinion as a friend, I must
always act the part of a true friend, however fre-
quently the advice I give may happen to clash with
your feelings, justly irritated by injuries which you
have not merited. Considering the Board of Treas-
ury as so many individuals, the complexion of their
letter to you would abundantly justify the asperity
of your reply ; but considering them as a public body,
one of the first in the State, policy pronounces it to be
too great. We are entered deeply in a contest on
which our all depends. We must endeavor to rub
through it, sometimes even at the expense of our
feelings. The treasury will always be essential to
your department. The board conducting it will
necessarily have no small influence. You may con-
tinue at the head of the department. I should think
it imprudent to push differences to extremity, or to
convert the airs of official consequence and the tem-
porary work of popular prejudice into rooted per-
sonal resentments. This appears to me to be the
tendency of the present letter. The board, from the
necessity of our affairs, may sue for peace, but they

Private Correspondence 195

will hate you for the htimiliation you bring upon
them ; and they may have it in their power to em-
barrass your operations. I would have you show a
sensibility of injury, but I would wish you to do it in
milder terms.'

TO BARON STEUBEN

June 7, 1780.

Dear Baron:

I am commanded by the General to inform you
that the enemy are out in considerable force, and, by
the last advice, were advancing this way. We are
going to meet them. The General is just set out
for Chatham, and will be happy to meet you there.

^ TO WASHINGTON

June 8, 1780.

Sir:

I have seen the enemy. Those in view I calculate
at about three thousand; there may be, and prob-
ably enough are, others out of sight. They have
sent all their horse to the other side, except about
fifty or sixty. Their baggage, it is agreed on all
hands, has also been sent across, and their wounded.
It is not ascertained that any of their infantry have
passed to the other side. There are four or five

^ This letter is reprinted from Geo. W. Greene's Life of General
Greene, ii., p. 287; it is also given in the History of the Republic, ii., 4.
The Treasury Board had written to Greene, who was at that time
quartermaster-general, in terms implying a doubt of his integrity. He
was naturally much incensed, and wrote a reply, which he sub-
mitted to Hamilton, who wrote this letter in response. Greene pro-
fessed himself unable to adopt a milder tone, but consulted Hamilton
as to another draft. The date is that given by Mr. Greene.

196 Alexander Hamilton

hundred on the opposite point, but it is uncertain
whether they are those who went from this side, or
those who were on Staten Island; I rather suppose
the former.

Different conjectures may be made. The present
movement may be calculated to draw us down and
betray us into an action. They may have desisted
from their intention of passing till night, for fear of
our falling upon their rear. I believe this is the case ;
for, as they have but few boats, it would certainly
be a delicate manoeuvre to cross in our face. We
are taking measures to watch their motions to-night
as closely as possible. An incessant but very light
skirmishing. Very few boats, not more than enough
to carry three or four hundred men at a time; it is
likely more will come down this evening.

TO THE CHEVALIER DE TERNAY '

Au Cap Henry, le 13 Juin, 1780.

Monsieur Le Chevalier:

Je suis envoye par le General Washington au Cap
Henry pour y attendre votre escadre, et vous remettre
ainsi qu' a Monsieur le Comte de Rochambeau, les
depeches de Monsieur le Marquis de Lafayette. Ces
depeches. Monsieur le Chevalier, contiennent le plan
d 'operations que le General Washington a I'honneur
de vous proposer, la situation des ennemies, et la
notre relativement aux forces respectives des deiix

' Charles Louis d'Arsac de Temay, admiral and commander of the
fleet that brought Rochambeau and his army to America. He reached
Newport with his fleet July 10, 1780, and died there on December 15th
of the same year, in the fifty-ninth year of his age.

Private Correspondence 197

parties, aux points occupes, aiix moyens de subsist-
ence et cetera; tons les changemens qui pouvaient
survenir sur ces objets doivent m'etre communiques,
afin qu' h votre arrivee vous puissiez avoir sous les
yeux le plus de donnees possibles. Les memes
details vous attendent k Rhode Island, et si vous ne
devezles regevoir qu' apr^s etre arrive, il estpresque
indifferent. Monsieur le Chevalier, que votre escadre
atterisse a Rhode Island ou au Cap Henry; mais
il y a des circonstances qui, si elles vous etaient con-
nues, tendraient peut etre k vous determiner plustot
pour I'un de ces points que pour I'autre, ou meme
pour un troisi^me point que vos instructions n'ont pu
prevoir. C'est pour vous rendre compte de ces cir-
constances que je saisis I'occasion du fier Rodrique;
heureux si, dans une conjoncture ou les moments
sont d'une si grande importance, cette lettre peut
anticiper de quelques jours vos dispositions.

1°. Par le plan propos6 k vous. Monsieur le Che-
valier, et a Monsieur le Comte de Rochambeau, les
efforts combines de I'armee Frangaise et Americaine
doivent se porter sur New York, et vous Stes instam-
ment prie de vous rendre immediatement k Sandy
Hook.

2°. Suivant les informations qui m'ont ete recem-
ment fournies par le Gouvemeur de la Virginie, la
ville de Charleston est prise ; les ennemis embarquent
une partie des troupes qui en ont fait la conqu^te, et
d'apr^s la certitude ou nous sommes que la destina-
tion de votre escadre leur est connue, il semble que
cet embarquement pourrait bien avoir pour objet de
renforcer la gamison New York.

198 Alexander Hamilton

3^. La somme de leurs forces navales sur ce conti-
nent se borne h trois vaisseaux de ligne, un de 50
canons, denx de 44, et quelques fregates k Charles-
ton; un vaisseau de 74 et quelques frigates, sortis de
New York depuis trois semaines et dont nous igno-
rons la destination.

Ainsi, Monsieur le Chevalier, la premiere de ces
considerations vous invite k Sandy Hook ; la seconde
reclame votre atterrage sur un point d'ou vous puis-
siez gtre en mesure d'intercepter les secours destines
potir New York ; et la troisieme vous off re un terme
de comparaison entre la plus grande force qui puisse
escort er ces secours, et cette avec laquelle vous pou-
vez les attaquer. II est enclore k observer qu'
excepte les trois vaisseaux de ligne, tous les autres
(a Charleston) sont dans le port, et que les plus gros
n'en peuvent sortir, qu'apr^s avoir ete alleges, et
avec la concurrence d'une haute marree et d'un vent
propice.

Telles sont. Monsieur le Chevalier, les choses dont
ma mission a pour objet de vous rendre compte, et
comme il est de toute importance que ces informa-
tions vous parviennent le plus tot possible, j'ai cru
ne pas devoir negliger la probabilite, qui s 'off re de
les faire devancer votre arrivee.

En supposant, Monsieur le Chevalier, que le fier
Rodrique vous rencontre et que vous jugiez k propos
de vous rendre en droiture k Sandy Hook, il est un
moyen de faire que les dep^ches qui vous attendant
k Rhode Island et du Cap Henry vous parviennent
aussi promptement qui si vous aviez atterri k I'un
de ces deux points: ce serait de d^p8cher, vers Tun

Private Correspondence 199

ou Tautre, Tun de vos plus legers vaisseaux qui re-
cevrait a son bord I'officier charge de ces depeches,
et vous irait rejoindre vers Sandy Hook, ou vraisem-
blablement il se rendrait aussitot que votre flotte, ou
du moins beaucoup plustot que les reponses de Gen-
eral Washington ou de Monsieur le Marquis de
Lafayette, aux lettres qui leur annonceraient votre
arrivee.

Si le Cap Henry etait le point choisi, j'oserais vous
prier. Monsieur le Chevalier, afin d'eviter tous delais,
d'ordonner qu'k la vue, du signal que vous savez, le
vaisseau y r6ponde par un signal contraire, je veux
dire en avertissant la position des pavilions: qu'il
envoie sa chaloupe h terre avec un officier muni des
mots de reconnaissance ; que cet officier me donne la
premiere partie de ces mots et regoive de moi la
seconde. Par la je crois, Monsieur le Chevalier, que
toute possibilite de surprise est sauvee, de part et
d 'autre, sans qu'il y ait un seul instant de perdre par
le ceremonial de la reconnaissance.

TO BARON STEUBEN

Whippany, June 25, 1780.

Dear Baron:

The enemy, the day before yesterday, made a for-
ward movement to Springfield, which they burnt,
and retired to Elizabethtown Point. The same even-
ing they crossed over to Staten Island, and there
are a great many concurring circumstances which
make it probable we shall next hear of them on the
North River. As you are at West Point the General

200 Alexander Hamilton

wishes you to remain there until the present appear-
ances come to some result. He has confidence in
your judgment, and wishes you to give your advice
and assistance to the commanding officer. As you
have no command in the post you can only do this
in a private, friendly way; but I dare say General
Howe will be happy to consult you. You will con-
sider this as a private letter, in which I rather con-
vey you the General's wishes than his commands.

All the army is in march toward you, and will be
at Pompton this evening.

TO BARON STEUBEN.

Headquarters, Ramapo, June 30, 1780.

Agreeably to your request, my dear Baron, I com-
municated your project to the General. Happily
the inactivity of the enemy has given us time to
make dispositions which render the calling out of the
militia unnecessary, and the whole has been accord-
ingly countermanded.

The General requests that when you have com-
pleted the object of your errand in your department,
and put things in train, you will rejoin the army.

I wrote you a line from Whippany, of which you
made no mention.

TO GENERAL ANTHONY WAYNE

July 6, 1780.

Dear General:

Doctor W. Mendy is one of those characters that
for its honesty, simplicity, and helplessness interests

Private Correspondence 201

my humanity. He is exceedingly anxious to be in
the service, and, I beheve, has been forced out of it
not altogether by fair play. He is just what I should
like for a military parson, except that he does not
drink. He will fight, and he will not insist upon
your going to heaven whether you will or not. He
tells me there is a vacancy in your brigade. I should
be really happy if, through your influence, he can
fill it. Pray take care of the good old man.'

TO BARON STEUBEN

Headquarters, July 23, 1780.

I have received, my dear Baron, your two letters
of the sixteenth and eighteenth. On the formation
of the light infantry, the General has already written
to you. I presume it will be, ultimately, nearly as
you have proposed.

Smith set out some days since to join you. Brad-
ford, I am told, is undecided about entering into the
office. Col. Scammel has promised to bring him to
me, and if he accepts, we will forward him. I be-
lieve Prescott will be appointed in the light infantry.
Entre nous, 't is not easy to find good majors for this
corps in the Massachusetts Line, and as it will act a
good deal with the French troops, we wish it (for
this additional reason) to be well officered. Prescott
will answer the purpose: but he is not yet to know
that he is in contemplation. We shall not long con-
tinue in our present position. The distinctions of

' Now first printed from the original in the Wayne MSS. I owe this
letter to the kindness of the Hon. George Bancroft.

202 Alexander Hamilton

departments are an old story, which now do not
exist except with respect to South Carolina. You
are with a detachment of the main army.

I dare say all you are doing will be found right.
I shall join my beau-pere to save you from the cord.
The arrangement for your department was unfor-
tunately sent to Congress soon after you went from
here, with the most pressing instances to determine
upon it without delay. We have heard nothing of
it since. We have repeated our prayers and exhorta-
tions. If we get no answer in three or four days, we
must determine for ourselves.

Major Francis is returned from Philadelphia, but I
have not seen him since the arrival of your letters.
I will move the inquiry you wish when I see him.
Can you do any thing for him in your department?

A severe stroke upon us is, that our arms expected
from France are not arrived. I do not know how
we shall be able to arm our recruits.

Graves sailed from the Hook the nineteenth. We
had been playing off and on two days.

TO MISS SCHUYLER ^

September 6, 1780.

Most people here are groaning under a very dis-
agreeable piece of intelligence just come from the
southward, that Gates has had a total defeat near

^ Miss Elizabeth Schuyler, whom Hamilton met first at Albany on
his mission to Gates in 1777. She was the daughter of General Philip
Schuyler. At the time of this letter she and Hamilton were engaged
and they were married Dec. 14, 1780.

Private Correspondence 203

Camden, in South Carolina. Cornwallis and he met
in the night of the fifteenth, by accident, marching
to the same point. The advanced guards skirmished,
and the two armies halted and formed till morning.
In the morning a battle ensued, in which the militia,
and Gates with them, immediately ran away, and
left the Continental troops to contend with the
enemy's whole force.

They did it obstinately, and probably are most of
them cut off. Gates, however, who writes to Con-
gress, seems to know very little what has become of
his army. He showed that age and the long labors
and fatigues of a military life had not in the least
impaired his activity, for in three days and a half he
reached Hillsborough, one hundred and eighty miles
from the scene of action, leaving all his troops to
take care of themselves, and get out of the scrape
as well as they could.

He has confirmed, in this instance, the opinion I
always had of him. This event will have very seri-
ous consequences to the southward. People's im-
aginations have already given up North Carolina and
Virginia ; but I do not believe either of them will fall.
I am certain Virginia cannot. This misfortune
affects me less than others, because it is not in my
temper to repine at evils that are past, but to en-
deavor to draw good out of them, and because I
think our safety depends on a total change of system,
and this change of system will only be produced by
misfortune.

204 Alexander Hamilton

TO JAMES DUANE

September 6, 1780.

My Dear Sir:

The letter accompanying this has lain by two or
three days for want of an opportunity. I have heard
since of Gates' defeat: a very good comment on the
necessity of changing our system. His passion for
militia, I fancy, will be a little cured, and he will
cease to think them the best bulwark of American
liberty. What think you of the conduct of this
great man? I am his enemy personally, for unjust
and unprovoked attacks upon my character ; there-
fore what I say of him ought to be received as from
an enemy, and have no more weight than as it is
consistent with fact and common sense. But did
ever any one hear of such a disposition or such a
flight? His best troops placed on the side strongest
by nature, his worst on that weakest by nature, and
his attack made with these. 'T is impossible to give
a more complete picture of military absurdity. It
is equally against the maxims of war and common
sense. We see the consequences. His left ran away,
and left his right uncovered. His right wing turned
on the left has in all probability been cut off. Though,
in truth, the General seems to have known very
little what became of his army. Had he placed his
militia on his right, supported by the morass,
and his Continental troops on his left, where it
seems he was most vulnerable, his right would have
been more secure, and his left would have op-
posed the enemy; and instead of going backward
when he ordered to attack, would have gone for-

Private Correspondence 205

ward. The reverse of what has happened might
have happened.

But was there ever an instance of a general run-
ning away, as Gates has done, from his whole army?
And was there ever so precipitate a flight? One
hundred and eighty miles in three days and a half.
It does admirable credit to the activity of a man at
his time of life. But it disgraces the general and
the soldier. I have always believed him to be very
far short of a Hector, or a Ulysses. All the world,
I think, will begin to agree with me.

But what will be done by Congress? Will he be
changed or not? If he is changed, for God's sake
overcome prejudice, and send Greene. You know
my opinion of him. I stake my reputation on the
events, give him but fair play.

But, above all things, let us have, without delay,
a vigorous government, and a well constituted army
for the war.

TO WASHINGTON

Verplanck's Point, Sept. 25, 1780.

Dear Sir:

You will see by the enclosed that we are too late.
Arnold went by water to the Vulture. I shall write
to General Greene, advising him, without making a
bustle, to be in readiness to march, and even to de-
tach a brigade this way; for, though I do not believe
the project will go on, yet it is possible Arnold has
made such dispositions with the garrison as may
tempt the enemy, in its present weakness, to make
the stroke this night, and it seems prudent to be

2o6 Alexander Hamilton

providing against it. I shall endeavor to find Meigs,
and request him to march to the garrison, and shall
make some arrangements here. I hope your Excel-
lency will approve these steps, as there may be no
time to be lost. The Vulture is gone down to New
York.^

TO GENERAL GREENE

Verplanck's Point, 25th Sept., 1780.

Dear Sir:

There has just been imfolded at this place a scene
of the blackest treason. Arnold has fled to the
enemy — Andre, the British Adjutant-General, is in
our possession as a spy. His capture unravelled the
mystery.

West Point was to have been the sacrifice. All
the dispositions have been made for the purpose, and
't is possible, though not probable, we may still see
the execution. The wind is fair. I came here in
pursuit of Arnold, but was too late. I advise your
putting the army under marching orders and detach-
ing a brigade immediately this way.

TO Miss SCHUYLER

September 25, 1780.

Arnold, hearing of the plot being detected, imme-
diately fled to the enemy. I went in pursuit of him,

^ This letter is reprinted from the Writings of Washington, vii., 215.
It is also given without date in the History of the Republic, ii., 55.
Hamilton had been sent, as soon as Arnold's escape was known, to
Verplanck's Point to try to intercept him, and this letter was written
on his arrival, which he found was too late, for the bird had flown and
was safe on board the Vulture, an English sloop-of-war.

Private Correspondence 207

but was much too late ; and could hardly regret the
disappointment, when, on my return, I saw an ami-
able woman, frantic with distress for the loss of a
husband she tenderly loved ; a traitor to his country
and to his fame; a disgrace to his connections: it
was the most affecting scene I ever was witness to.
She, for a considerable time, entirely lost herself.
The General went up to see her, and she upbraided
him with being in a plot to murder her child. One
moment she raved, another she melted into tears.
Sometimes she pressed her infant to her bosom, and
lamented its fate, occasioned by the imprudence of
its father, in a manner that would have pierced in-
sensibility itself. All the sweetness of beauty, all the
loveliness of innocence, all the tenderness of a wife,
and all the fondness of a mother showed themselves
in her appearance and conduct. We have every
reason to believe that she was entirely unacquainted
with the plan, and that the first knowledge of it was
when Arnold went to tell her he must banish himself
from his country and from her forever. She in-
stantly fell into a convulsion, and he left her in that
situation.

This morning she is more composed. I paid her a
visit, and endeavored to sooth her by every method
in my power, though you may imagine she is not
easily to be consoled. Added to her other distresses,
she is very apprehensive the resentment of her
country will fall upon her (who is only unfortunate)
for the guilt of her husband.

I have tried to persuade her that her fears are
ill-founded, but she will not be convinced. She

2o8 Alexander Hamilton

received us in bed, with ever}^ circiimstance that
would interest our sympathy ; and her sufferings were
so eloquent, that I wished myself her brother, to have
a right to become her defender. As it is, I have
entreated her to enable me to give her proofs of my
friendship. Could I forgive Arnold for sacrificing
his honor, reputation, and duty, I could not forgive
him for acting a part that must have forfeited the
esteem of so fine a woman. At present she almost
forgets his crime in his misfortunes ; and her horror
at the guilt of the traitor is lost in her love of the
man. But a virtuous mind cannot long esteem a
base one ; and time will make her despise if it cannot
make her hate.

TO MISS SCHUYLER

Tappan, Oct. 2, 1780.

Poor Andr6 suffers to-day. Every thing that is
amiable in virtue, in fortitude, in delicate sentiment,
and accomplished manners, pleads for him; but
hard-hearted policy calls for a sacrifice. He must

die . I send you my account of Arnold's affair;

and to justify myself to your sentiments, I must in-
form you that I urged a compliance with Andre's
request to be shot ; and I do not think it would have
had an ill effect; but some people are only sensible
to motives of policy, and sometimes, from a narrow
disposition, mistake it.

When Andre's tale comes to be told, and present
resentment is over, the refusing him the privilege of

Private Correspondence 209

choosing the manner of his death will be branded
with too much obstinacy.

It was proposed to me to suggest to him the idea
of an exchange for Arnold ; but I knew I should have
forfeited his esteem by doing it, and therefore de-
clined it. As a man of honor, he could but reject
it, and I would not for the world have proposed to
him a thing which must have placed me in the
unamiable light of supposing him capable of mean-
ness, or of not feeling myself the impropriety of the
measure. I confess to you I had the weakness to
value the esteem of a dying man, because I rever-
enced his merit.

TO JOHN LAURENS *

October, 1780.

Since my return from Hartford, my dear Laurens,
my mind has been too little at ease to permit me to
write to you sooner. It has been wholly occupied by
the affecting and tragic consequences of Arnold's
treason. My feelings were never put to so severe a
trial. You will no doubt have heard the principal
facts before this reaches you. But there are par-
ticulars, to which my situation gave me access, that
cannot have come to your knowledge from public re-
port, which I am persuaded you will find interesting.

From several circumstances, the project seems to

^ This letter is the best description extant of Arnold's treason, and
all the accompanying incidents. It is admirably written, and shows,
in a striking way, Hamilton's literary skill. In the edition of 1850 it
is dated September, which is an obvious error, as Andr4 was not
executed until October 2d, and this letter describes his execution.

VOL. IX.— 14.

2IO Alexander Hamilton

have originated with Arnold himself, and to have
been long premeditated. The first overture is traced
back to some time in June last. It was conveyed in
a letter to Colonel Robinson, the substance of which
was that the ingratitude he had experienced from
his country, concurring with other causes, had en-
tirely changed his principles; that he now only
sought to restore himself to the favor of his king by
some signal proof of his repentance, and would be
happy to open a correspondence with Sir Henry
Clinton for that purpose. About this period he
made a journey to Connecticut, on his return from
which to Philadelphia, he solicited the command of
West Point, alleging that the effects of his wounds
had disqualified him for the active duties of the
field. The sacrifice of this important post was the
atonement he intended to make. General Washing-
ton hesitated the less to gratify an officer who had
rendered such eminent services, as he was convinced
the post might be safely intrusted to one who had
given so many distinguished specimens of his brav-
ery. In the beginning of August he joined the army,
and renewed his application. The enemy, at this
juncture, had embarked the greatest part of their
forces on an expedition to Rhode Island, and our
army was in motion to compel them to relinquish the
enterprise, or to attack New York in its weakened
state. The General offered Arnold the left wing of
the army, which he declined, on the pretext already
mentioned, but not without visible embarrassment.
He certainly might have executed the duties of such
a temporary command, and it was expected, from

Private Correspondence 211

his enterprising temper, that he would gladly have
embraced so splendid an opportunity. But he did
not choose to be diverted a moment from his favorite
object, probably from an apprehension that some
different disposition might have taken place, which
would have excluded him. The extreme solicitude
he discovered to get possession of the post would
have led to a suspicion of treachery, had it been pos-
sible from his past conduct to have supposed him
capable of it.

The correspondence thus begun was carried on be-
tween Arnold and Major Andre, Adjutant-General
to the British army, in behalf of Sir Henry Clinton,
under feigned signatures, and in a mercantile dis-
guise. In an intercepted letter of Arnold's, which
lately fell into our hands, he proposes an interview,
" to settle the risks and profits of the copartnership,"
and, in the same style of metaphor, intimates an ex-
pected augmentation of the garrison, and speaks of
it as the means of extending their traffic. It appears,
by another letter, that Andre was to have met him
on the lines, under the sanction of a flag, in the char-
acter of Mr. John Anderson. But some cause or
other not known prevented this interview.

The twentieth of last month, Robinson ' and
Andre went up the river in the Vulture, sloop-of-war.
Robinson sent a flag to Arnold with two letters : one
to General Putnam, inclosed in another to himself,

' Beverly Robinson, son of John Robinson of Virginia. He married
Susanna Phillipse and thus acquired fortune and part of the famous
Phillipse estate. He was a strong Tory and colonel of the regiment of
Royal Americans in the British service. After the Revolution he fled
to England, where he died.

212 Alexander Hamilton

proposing an interview with Putnam, or, in his ab-
sence, with Arnold, to adjust some private concerns.
The one to General Putnam was evidently meant as
a cover to the other, in case, by accident, the letters
should have fallen tmder the inspection of a third
person.

General Washington crossed the river on his way
to Hartford the day these despatches arrived. Ar-
nold, conceiving he must have heard of the flag,
thought it necessary, for the sake of appearances, to
submit the letters to him, and ask his opinion of
the propriety of complying with the request. The
General, with his usual caution, though without the
least surmise of the design, dissuaded him from it,
and advised him to reply to Robinson that whatever
related to his private affairs must be of a civil na-
ture, and could only be properly addressed to the
civil authority. This reference fortunately deranged
the plan, and was the first link in the chain of events
that led to the detection. The interview could no
longer take place in the form of a flag, but was
obliged to be managed in a secret manner.

Arnold employed one Smith ^ to go on board the
Vulture on the night of the twenty-second, to bring
Andre on shore, with a pass for Mr. John Anderson.
Andre came ashore accordingly, and was conducted
within a picket of ours to the house of Smith, where
Arnold and he remained together in close conference
all that night and the day following. At daylight,

^ Joshua H. Smith, who had been employed by General Howe,
Arnold's predecessor, to gather intelligence. He had always been
thought a loyal man, but Arnold succeeded in corrupting him.

Private Correspondence 213

in the morning, the commanding officer at King's
Ferry, without the privity of Arnold, moved a
couple of pieces of cannon to a point opposite to
v^here the Vulture lay, and obliged her to take a
more remote station. This event, or some lurking
distrust, made the boatmen refuse to convey the
two passengers back, and disconcerted Arnold so
much that, by one of those strokes of infatuation
which often confound the schemes of men consci-
ous of guilt, he insisted on Andre's exchanging his
uniform for a disguise, and returning in a mode
different from that in which he came. Andre, who
had been undesignedly brought within our posts in
the first instance, remonstrated warmly against this
new and dangerous expedient. But Arnold per-
sisting in declaring it impossible for him to return as
he came, he at length reluctantly yielded to his di-
rection, and consented to change his dress and take
the route he recommended. Smith furnished the
disguise, and in the evening passed King's Ferry
with him and proceeded to Crompond,' where they
stopped the remainder of the night, at the instance
of a militia officer," to avoid being suspected by him.
The next morning they resumed their journey,
Smith accompanying Andre a little beyond Pine's
Bridge, where he left him. He had reached Tarry-
town, when he was taken up by three militiamen,^
who rushed out of the woods and seized his horse.
At this critical moment his presence of mind

* A place about eight miles from Verplanck's Point.

2 Captain Boyd.

3 Paulding, Van Wart, and Williams.

214 Alexander Hamilton

forsook him. Instead of producing his pass, which
would have extricated him from our parties, and
could have done him no harm with his own, he asked
the militiamen if they were of the upper or lower
party; descriptive appellations known among the
enemy's refugee corps. The militiamen replied they
were of the lower party, upon which he told them he
was a British officer, and pressed them not to detain
him, as he was upon urgent business. This confession
removed all doubts, and it was in vain he afterwards
produced his pass. He was instantly forced off to a
place of greater security, where, after a careful search,
there were found concealed in the feet of his stock-
ings several papers of importance, delivered to
him by Arnold! Among these were a plan of the
fortifications of West Point; a memorial from the
engineer on the attack and defence of the place ; re-
turns of the garrison, cannon, and stores; copy of
the minutes of a council of war held by General
Washington a few weeks before. The prisoner at
first was inadvertently ordered to Arnold, but on
recollection, while still on the way, he was counter-
manded and sent to Old Salem. The papers were
enclosed in a letter to General Washington, which,
having taken a route different from that by which he
returned, made a circuit that afforded leisure for
another letter, through an ill-judged delicacy, written
to Arnold with information of Anderson's capture,
to get to him an hour before General Washington
arrived at his quarters; time enough to elude the
fate that awaited him. He went down the river on
his barge to the Vulture with such precipitate con-

Private Correspondence 215

fusion that he did not take with him a single paper
useful to the enemy. On the first notice of the
affair he was pursued, but much too late to be
overtaken.

There was some color for imagining that it was a
part of the plan to betray the General into the hands
of the enemy. Arnold was very anxious to ascer-
tain from him the precise day of his return, and the
enemy's movements seem to have corresponded to
this point. But if it was really the case it was very
injudicious. The success must have depended on
surprise, and as the officers at the advanced posts
were not in the secret their measures might have
given the alarm, and General Washington, taking
the command of the post, might have rendered the
whole scheme abortive. Arnold, it is true, had so
dispersed the garrison as to have made a defence
difficult but not impracticable; and the acquisition
of West Point was of such magnitude to the enemy
that it would have been unwise to connect it with
any other object, however great, which might make
the obtaining of it precarious.

Arnold, a moment before the setting out, went
into Mrs. Arnold's apartment, and informed her that
some transactions had just come to light which must
forever banish him from his country. She fell into
a swoon at this declaration : and he left her in it to
consult his own safety, till the servants, alarmed by
her cries, came to her relief. She remained frantic
all day, accusing every one who approached her
with an intention to murder her child (an infant in
her arms), and exhibiting every other mark of the

2i6 Alexander Hamilton

most genuine and agonizing distress. Exhausted by
the fatigue and tumult of her spirits, her phrensy
subsided towards evening, and she sank into all the
sadness of affliction. It was impossible not to have
been touched with her situation. Every thing
affecting in female tears, or in the misfortunes of
beauty ; every thing pathetic in the wounded tender-
ness of a wife, or in the apprehensive fondness of a
mother ; and, till I have reason to change the opinion,
I will add, every thing amiable in suffering innocence'
conspired to make her an object of sympathy to all
who were present. She experienced the most deli-
cate attentions and every friendly office, till her de-
parture for Philadelphia.

Andre was, without loss of time, conducted to the
headquarters of the army, where he was imme-
diately brought before a Board of General Officers,
to prevent all possibility of misrepresentation, or
cavil on the part of the enemy. The Board reported
that he ought to be considered as a spy, and, ac-
cording to the laws of nations, to suffer death, which
was executed two days after.

Never, perhaps, did a man suffer death with more
justice, or deserve it less. The first step he took after
his capture was to write a letter to General Wash-
ington, conceived in terms of dignity without in-
solence, and apology without meanness. The scope
of it was to vindicate himself from the imputation of
having assumed a mean character for treacherous or
interested purposes; asserting that he had been in-

^ Mrs. Arnold, as Hamilton supposed, was undoubtedly free from all
complicity in her husband's treason.

Private Correspondence 217

voluntarily an impostor ; that contrary to his inten-
tion, which was to meet a person for intelligence on
neutral groimd, he had been betrayed within our
posts, and forced into the vile condition of an enemy
in disguise; soliciting only that, to whatever rigor
policy might devote him, a decency of treatment
might be observed, due to a person who, though
unfortunate, had been guilty of nothing dishonor-
able. His request was granted in its full extent;
for, in the whole progress of the affair, he was treated
with the most scrupulous delicacy. When brought
before the Board of Officers he met with every
mark of indulgence, and was required to answer no
interrogatory which could even embarrass his
feelings. On his part, while he carefully concealed
every thing that might involve others, he frankly
confessed all the facts relating to himself ; and, upon
his confession, without the trouble of examining a
witness, the Board made their report. The mem-
bers of it were not more impressed with the candor
and firmness, mixed with a becoming sensibility,
which he displayed, than he was penetrated with
their liberality and politeness. He acknowledged
the generosity of the behavior towards him in every
respect, but particularly in this, in the strongest
terms of manly gratitude. In a conversation with
a gentleman who visited him after his trial, he said
he flattered himself he had never been illiberal ; but
if there were any remains of prejudice in his mind,
his present experience must obliterate them.

In one of the visits I made to him (and I saw him
several times during his confinement), he begged me

2i8 Alexander Hamilton

to be the bearer of a request to the General, for per-
mission to send an open letter to Sir Henry Clinton.
'' I foresee my fate," said he, *' and though I pretend
not to play the hero, or to be indifferent about life,
yet I am reconciled to whatever may happen, con-
scious that misfortune, not guilt, has brought it upon
me. There is only one thing that disturbs my
tranquillity. Sir Henry Clinton has been too good
to me; he has been lavish of his kindness. I am
bound to him by too many obligations, and love him
too well, to bear the thought that he should reproach
himself, or that others should reproach him, on the
supposition of my having conceived myself obliged,
by his instructions, to run the risk I did. I would
not for the world leave a sting in his mind that
should imbitter his future days." He could scarce
finish the sentence, bursting into tears in spite of his
efforts to suppress them, and with difficulty collected
himself enough afterwards to add, "I wish to be
permitted to assure him I did not act under this im-
pression, but submitted to a necessity imposed upon
me, as contrary to my own inclination as by his
orders." His request was readily complied with,
and he wrote the letter annexed, with which I dare
say you will be as much pleased as I am, both for the
diction and sentiment.

When his sentence was announced to him he re-
marked that since it was his lot to die, there was
still a choice in the mode, which would make a ma-
terial difference in his feelings, and he would be
happy, if possible, to be indulged with a professional
death. He made a second application, by letter, in

Private Correspondence 219

concise but persuasive terms. It was thought this
indulgence, being incompatible with the customs of
war, could not be granted, and it was therefore
determined, in both cases, to evade an answer, to
spare him the sensations which a certain knowledge
of the intended mode would inflict.

In going to the place of execution, he bowed
familiarly as he went along, to all those with whom
he had been acquainted in his confinement. A
smile of complacency expressed the serene fortitude
of his mind. Arrived at the fatal spot, he asked,with
some emotion, ''Must I then die in this manner?"
He was told that it had been unavoidable. '' I am
reconciled to my fate," said he, ''but not to the
mode. " Soon, however, recollecting himself, he add-
ed: "It will be but a momentary pang, " and, spring-
ing upon the cart, performed the last offices to him-
self, with a composure that excited the admiration
and melted the hearts of the beholders. Upon being
told that the final moment was at hand, and asked if
he had anything to say, he answered: " Nothing but
to request you will witness to the world that I die
like a brave man." Among the extraordinary cir-
cumstances that attended him, in the midst of his
enemies, he died universally esteemed and universally
regretted.

There was something singularly interesting in the
character and fortunes of Andr6. To an excellent
understanding, well improved by education and
travel, he united a peculiar elegance of mind and
manners, and the advantage of a pleasing person.
'T is said he possessed a pretty taste for the fine arts,

220 Alexander Hamilton

and had himself attained some proficiency in poetry,
music, and painting. His knowledge appeared with-
out ostentation, and embellished by a diffidence that
rarely accompanies so many talents and accom-
plishments: which left you to suppose more than
appeared. His sentiments were elevated, and in-
spired esteem: they had a softness that conciliated
affection. His elocution was handsome; his ad-
dress easy, polite, and insinuating. By his merit he
had acquired the unlimited confidence of his general,
and was making a rapid progress in military rank and
reputation. But in the height of his career, flushed
with new hopes from the execution of a project, the
most beneficial to his party that could be devised, he
was at once precipitated from the summit of pro-
sperity, and saw all the expectations of his ambition
blasted, and himself ruined.

The character I have given of him, is drawn partly
from what I saw of him myself, and partly from in-
formation. I am aware that a man of real merit is
never seen in so favorable a light as through the
medium of adversity: the clouds that surround him
are shades that set off his good qualities. Misfortune
cuts down the little vanities that, in prosperous
times serve as so many spots in his virtues; and
gives a tone of humility that makes his worth more
amiable. His spectators, who enjoy a happier lot,
are less prone to detract from it, through envy, and
are more disposed, by compassion, to give him the
credit he deserves, and perhaps even to magnify it.

I speak not of Andre's conduct in this affair as a
philosopher, but as a man of the world. The au-

Private Correspondence 221

thorized maxims and practices of war are the satires
of human nature. They countenance almost e very-
species of seduction as well as violence; and the
general who can make most traitors in the army of
his adversary is frequently most applauded.

On this scale we acquit Andre ; while we could not
but condemn him, if we were to examine his conduct
by the sober rules of philosophy and moral rectitude.
It is, however, a blemish on his fame, that he once in-
tended to prostitute a flag: about this, a man of nice
honor ought to have had a scruple ; but the tempta-
tion was great: let his misfortunes cast a veil over
his error.

Several letters from Sir Henry Clinton, and others,
were received in the course of the affair, feebly at-
tempting to prove that Andre came out under the
protection of a flag, with a passport from a general
officer in active service ; and consequently could not
be justly detained. Clinton sent a deputation, com-
posed of Lieutenant-General Robinson, Mr. Elliot,
and Mr. William Smith, to represent, as he said, the
true state of Major Andre's case. General Greene
met Robinson, and had a conversation with him, in
which he reiterated the pretence of a flag, urged
Andre's release as a personal favor to Sir Henry
Clinton, and offered any friend of ours in their power
in exchange. Nothing could have been more frivol-
ous than the plea which was used. The fact was,
that beside the time, manner, object of the interview,
change of dress, and other circumstances, there
was not a single formality customary with flags ; and
the passport was not to Major Andre, but to Mr.

222 Alexander Hamilton

Anderson. But had there been, on the contrary,
all the formalities, it would be an abuse of language
to say that the sanction of a flag for corrupting an
officer to betray his trust, ought to be respected.
So unjustifiable a purpose would not only destroy
its validity, but make it an aggravation.

Andre, himself, has answered the argument, by
ridiculing and exploding the idea, in his examination
before the Board of Officers. It was a weakness to
urge it.

There was, in truth, no way of saving him. Ar-
nold or he must have been the victim; the former
was out of our power.

It was by some suspected Arnold had taken his
measures in such a manner, that if the interview had
been discovered in the act, it might have been in his
power to sacrifice Andre to his own security. This
surmise of double treachery made them imagine
Clinton might be induced to give up Arnold for
Andre; and a gentleman took occasion to suggest
this expedient to the latter as a thing that might be
proposed by him. He declined it. The moment he
had been capable of so much fraility, I should have
ceased to esteem him.

The infamy of Arnold's conduct previous to his
desertion is only equalled by his baseness since. Be-
side the folly of writing to Sir Henry Clinton, assur-
ing him that Andre had acted under a passport from
him, and according to his directions while command-
ing officer at a post, and that, therefore, he did not
doubt he would be immediately sent in, he had the
effrontery to write to General Washington in the

Private Correspondence 223

same spirit, with the addition of a menace of re-
taliation, if the sentence should be carried into exe-
cution. He has since acted the farce of sending in
his resignation. This man is, in every sense, de-
spicable. Added to the scene of knavery and pros-
titution during his command in Philadelphia, which
the late seizure of his papers has unfolded, the his-
tory of his command at West Point is a history of
little, as well as great villainies. He practised every
dirty art of peculation, and even stooped to connec-
tions with the sutlers of the garrison to defraud the
public.

To his conduct, that of the captors of Andr6 forms
a striking contrast. He tempted them with the
offer of his watch, his horse, and any simi of money
they should name. They rejected his offers with
indignation, and the gold that could seduce a man
high in the esteem and confidence of his coimtry,
who had the remembrance of past exploits, the mo-
tives of present reputation and future glory, to prop
his integrity, had no charms for three simple peas-
ants, leaning only on their virtue and an honest sense
of their duty. While Arnold is handed down with
execration to future times, posterity will repeat with
reverence the names of Van Wart, Paulding, and
Williams.

I congratulate you, my friend, on our happy escape
from the mischiefs with which this treason was big.
It is a new comment on the value of an honest man,
and, if it were possible, would endear you to me more
than ever.

2 24 Alexander Hamilton

TO ISAAC SEARS '

Oct. 12, 1780.

I was much obliged to you, my dear sir, for the
letter which you did me the favor to write me since
your return to Boston. I am sorry to find that the
same spirit of indifference to public affairs prevails.
It is necessary we should rouse and begin to do our
business in earnest, or we shall play a losing game.
It is impossible the contest can be much longer sup-
ported on the present footing. We must have a gov-
ernment with more power. We must have a tax in
kind. We must have a foreign loan. We must
have a bank — on the true principles of a bank. We
must have an administration distinct from Congress,
and in the hands of single men imder their orders.
We must, above all things, have an army for the war,
and an establishment that will interest the officers in
the service.

Congress are deliberating on our military affairs;
but I apprehend their resolutions will be tinctured
with the old spirit. We seem to be proof against ex-
perience. They will, however, recommend an army
for the war, at least, as a primary object. All those
who love their country ought to exert their influence
in the States where they reside, to determine them
to take up this object with energy. The States must
sink imder the burden of temporary enlistments;
and the enemy will conquer us by degrees during the
intervals of our weakness.

Clinton is now said to be making a considerable

' Isaac Sears was one of the early patriot leaders in New York, but
never rose into distinction afterwards.

Private Correspondence 225

detachment to the southward. My fears are high,
my hopes low. We are told here there is to be a
congress of the neutral powers at the Hague, for
mediating of peace. God send it may be true. We
want it ; but if the idea goes abroad, ten to one if we
do not fancy the thing done, and fall into a profound
sleep till the cannon of the enemy awaken us next
campaign. This is our national character.

TO JAMES DUANE

October i8, 1780.

My Dear Sir:

Since my last to you, I have had the pleasure of
receiving two letters from you. I am sorry to find
we do not seem to agree in the proper remedies to
our disorder, at least, in the practicability of apply-
ing those which are proper. Convinced, as I am, of
the absolute insufficiency of our present system to
our safety, if I do not despair of the republic, it is
more the effect of constitution than of judgment.

With the sentiments I entertain of Gates, I can-
not but take pleasure in his removal; and with the
confidence I have in Greene, I expect much from his
being the successor; at least, I expect all his circum-
stances will permit. You seem to have mistaken
me on the subject of this gentleman. When I spoke
of prejudice, I did not suppose it to exist with you,
but with Congress as a body — at least with a great
part of them. The part they have taken in the
affair, in my opinion, does honor to their impartial-
ity. I hope they will support the officer appointed
with a liberal confidence; his situation, surrounded

VOL. IX.— 15.

2 26 Alexander Hamilton

with difficulties, will need support. Of your influ-
ence for this purpose, I am too thoroughly persuaded
of your patriotism, my dear sir, to doubt.

Be assured, my dear sir, the marks of your regard
give me a sincere pleasure, and I shall be always
happy to cultivate it, and to give you proofs of my
affectionate attachment.

TO WASHINGTON

November 22, 1780.

Dear Sir:

Some time last fall, when I spoke to your Excel-
lency about going to the southward, I explained to
you candidly my feelings with respect to mihtary
reputation, and how much it was my object to act a
conspicuous part in some enterprise that might per-
haps raise my character as a soldier above medi-
ocrity. You were so good as to say you would be
glad to furnish me with an occasion. When the ex-
pedition to Staten Island was afoot, a favorable one
seemed to offer. There was a battalion without a
field officer, the command of which, I thought, as it
was accidental, might be given to me without incon-
venience. I made an application for it through the
Marquis, ' who informed me of your refusal on two
principles — one, that the giving me a whole bat-
talion might be a subject of dissatisfaction; the
other, that if any accident should happen to me, in
the present state of your family, you would be em-
barrassed for the necessary assistance.

The project you now have in contemplation affords

' Lafayette.

Private Correspondence 227

another opportunity. I have a variety of reasons
that press me to desire ardently to have it in my
power to improve it. I take the liberty to observe
that the command may now be proportioned to my
rank, and that the second objection ceases to operate,
as, during the period of establishing our winter-
quarters, there will be a suspension of material busi-
ness ; besides which, my peculiar position will, in any
case, call me away from the army in a few days, and
Mr. Harrison may be expected back early next month.
My command may consist of one hundred and fifty
or two hundred men, composed of fifty men of Major
Gibbes' corps, fifty from Col. Meigs' regiment, and
fifty or a hundred more from the light infantry;
Major Gibbes to be my major. The hundred men

from here may move on Friday morning towards ,

which will strengthen the appearances for Staten
Island, to form a junction on the other side of the
Passaic.

I suggest this mode to avoid the complaints that
might arise from composing my party wholly of the
light infantry, which might give umbrage to the
officers of that corps, who, on this plan, can have no
just subject for it.

The primary idea may be, if circumstances per-
mit, to attempt with my detachment Bayard's Hill.
Should we arrive early enough to undertake it, I
should prefer it to any thing else, both for the bril-
liancy of the attempt in itself and the decisive con-
sequences of which its success would be productive.
If we arrive too late to make this eligible (as there is
reason to apprehend), my corps may form the van

228 Alexander Hamilton

of one of the other attacks ; and Bayard's Hill will be
a pretext for my being employed in the affair, on a
supposition of my knowing the ground, which is
partly true. I flatter myself, also, that my military
character stands so well in the army as to reconcile
the ofBcers in general to the measure. All circum-
stances considered, I venture to say any exceptions
which might be taken would be unreasonable.

I take this method of making the request to avoid
the embarrassment of a personal explanation. I
shall only add that, however much I have the matter
at heart, I wish your Excellency entirely to consult
your own inclination, and not, from a disposition to
oblige me, to do any thing that may be disagreeable
to you. It will, nevertheless, make me singularly
happy if yoiir wishes correspond with mine.

TO WASHINGTON

Albany, Dec. 9, 1780.

Dear Sir:

Mr. Rensselaer, who has the direction of the ar-
mory here, tells me that the Board of War write him
that they are unable to support it any longer on the
present establishment for want of supplies, and pro-
pose to him to endeavor to have it carried on by
contract. This he declares is impossible. The ar-
mory must either continue on the present footing, or
cease. As far as I understand the matter, there is
no objection to the terms in themselves, but a want
of means to comply with them. If there is a want
of means, the thing must be relinquished; but, as it

Private Correspondence 229

does not strike me that it can be more difficult to
maintain an armory here than elsewhere, and as I
apprehend, in the present state of arsenals, we shall
stand in need of all the repairing we can do, I take
the liberty, at Mr. Rensselaer's request, to mention
the matter to you. I have seen the armory myself.
It appears to be in excellent order, and under a very
ingenious and industrious man. I am told it has
been conducted hitherto with great activity. Its
situation is, in my opinion, advantageous. As there
is a considerable body of troops always at West
Point, and the army generally in its vicinity, the
river is very convenient for transportation to and
from the armory, and I should think would be con-
ducive to economy. This consideration strikes me
as of importance. General Knox, however, will be
the best judge of the usefulness of this armory.

Mr. Rensselaer also mentions a considerable num-
ber of hides in the hands of persons here who had
had orders from the clothier-general not to dispose
of them but by his order. He says he can no longer
but with great difficulty procure leather for the public
works on credit, and has requested me to mention this
also to your Excellency.

Mrs. Hamilton presents her respectful compli-
ments to Mrs. Washington and yourself. After the
holidays, we shall be at headquarters.

I believe I imparted to you General Schuyler's
wish that you could make it convenient to pay
a visit with Mrs. Washington this winter. He and
Mrs. Schuyler have several times repeated their in-
quiries and wishes. I have told them I was afraid

230 Alexander Hamilton

your business would not permit you; if it should, I
shall be happy. You will enable me to let them
know about what period it will suit. When the
sleighing arrives, it will be an afEair of two days up
and two days down.

TO

Headquarters, Feb. 7, 1781.

Dear Sir:

The first step to reformation, as well in an adminis-
tration as in an individual, is to be sensible of our
faults. This begins to be our case, and there are
several symptoms that please me at this jimcture.
But we are so accustomed to doing right by halves,
and spoiling a good intention in the execution, that
I always wait to see the end of our public arrange-
ments before I venture to expect good or evil from
them. The plan of executive ministers is undoubt-
edly a good one, and by some men has been fruit-
lessly insisted upon for three or four years back ; but
whether it will work a present good or evil must de-
pend on the choice of the persons. This is a bad
omen. I am not at all informed of the persons in
nomination.

The accession of Maryland to the Confederacy will
be a happy event if it does not make people believe
that the Confederacy gives Congress power enough
and prevent their acquiring more. If it has this
effect it will be an evil, for it is unequal to the exi-
gencies of the war or to the preservation of the Union
hereafter. The cession of territory by Virginia ought

Private Correspondence 231

to have an important influence. New York is about
to make a similar cession. It is now before the
Legislature and will probably be adopted.

The late disturbances in the army and disquietudes
in the State of New York, which are with difficulty
diverted, show that the republic is sick and wants
powerful remedies. God send that the negotiation
abroad for money may succeed, for it is only this
that can give success to our interior efforts.

Paper credit cannot be supported without pe-
cuniary funds. Back lands are a very good resource
in reserve, but I suspect they will not have so much
present efficacy as is imagined. I only regard the
acquisition of territory to Congress as useful so far
as it enables them to procure credit.

The Eastern States are really making great exer-
tions towards the next campaign.

Have the goodness to assure the Chevalier De la
Luzerne of my sincere respect and attachment, and
do justice to the sentiments for you personally with
which I have the honor to be, etc

^ This letter is now first printed from the mutilated original in the
possession of a gentleman in New York, to whose kindness I am in-
debted for the opportunity to publish it. I am unable to give the
name of my kind correspondent, as his note, which accompanied the
copy of the letter, has been unfortimately lost — a circtunstance which
I cannot sufficiently regret.

232 Alexander Hamilton

TO PHILIP SCHUYLER '
Headquarters, New Windsor, February 18, 1781.

My Dear Sir:

Since I had the pleasure of writing you last, an un-
expected change has taken place in my situation. I
am no longer a member of the General's family.
This information will surprise you, and the manner
of the change will surprise you more. Two days ago,
the General and I passed each other on the stairs.
He told me he wanted to speak to me. I answered
that I would wait upon him immediately. I went
below, and delivered Mr. Tilghman a letter to be
sent to the commissary, containing an order of a
pressing and interesting nature.

Returning to the General, I was stopped on the
way by the Marquis de La Fayette, and we con-
versed together about a minute on a matter of busi-
ness. He can testify how impatient I was to get
back, and that I left him in a manner which, but for
our intimacy, would have been more than abrupt.
Instead of finding the General, as is usual, in his

' This famous letter to Hamilton's father-in-law. General Schuyler,
is now printed entire. It would have been perfectly justifiable to have
destroyed or suppressed this letter altogether, for it was written by
Hamilton when he was very angry, and had lost control of himself, so
that the opinions here expressed do not in the least represent his real
feeling about Washington, for whom he had the deepest reverence and
affection, either at this or any other time. As Mr. J. C. Hamilton,
however, saw fit to publish the letter, he should not have suppressed
part; he should have given all or nothing. It is given here in its
entirety from a copy of the original, made by Mr. James A. Hamilton,
and which I found among the papers of my grandfather, Mr. Henry
Cabot. The additional paragraphs now published for the first time
are enclosed in brackets.

Private Correspondence 233

room, I met him at the head of the stairs, where,
accosting me in an angry tone, *' Colonel Hamilton,"
said he, "you have kept me v^aiting at the head of
the stairs these ten minutes. I must tell you, sir,
you treat me with disrespect." I replied, without
petulancy, but with decision: "I am not conscious
of it, sir ; but since you have thought it necessary to
tell me so, we part." ''Very well, sir," said he, "if
it be your choice," or something to this effect, and we
separated. I sincerely believe my absence, which
gave so much umbrage, did not last two minutes.

In less than an hour after, Tilghman ^ came to me
in the General's name, assuring me of his great con-
fidence in my abilities, integrity, usefulness, etc., and
of his desire, in a candid conversation, to heal a
difference which could not have happened but in a
moment of passion. I requested Mr. Tilghman to
tell him — ist. That I had taken my resolution in a
manner not to be revoked. 2d. That, as a con-
versation could serve no other purpose than to pro-
duce explanations, mutually disagreeable, though I
certainly would not refuse an interview if he desired
it, yet I would be happy if he would permit me to
decline it. 3d. That, though determined to leave
the family, the same principles which had kept me so
long in it would continue to direct my conduct to-
wards him when out of it. 4th. That, however, I
did not wish to distress him, or the public business,
by quitting him before he could derive other assist-
ance by the return of some of the gentlemen who
were absent. 5th. And that, in the mean time, it

^ Lt. -Colonel Tench Tilghman, of Washington's stafiE.

234 Alexander Hamilton

depended on him to let our behavior to each other
be the same as if nothing had happened. He con-
sented to decline the conversation, and thanked me
for my offer of continuing my aid in the manner
I had mentioned. [Thus we stand. I wait Mr.
Humphrey's return from the eastward, and may be
induced to wait the return of Mr. Harrison from
Virginia.]

I have given you so particular a detail of our differ-
ence from the desire I have to justify myself in your
opinion. Perhaps you may think I was precipitate
in rejecting the overture made by the General to an
accommodation. I assure you, my dear sir, it was
not the effect of resentment; it was the deliberate
result of maxims I had long formed for the govern-
ment of my own conduct.

I always disliked the office of an aid-de-camp as
having in it a kind of personal dependence. I re-
fused to serve in this capacity with two major-
generals at an early period of the war. Infected,
however, with the enthusiasm of the times, an idea
of the General's character [which experience taught
me to be unfoimded] overcame my scruples, and in-
duced me to accept his invitation to enter into his
family. [It was not long before I discovered he was
neither remarkable for delicacy nor good temper,
which revived my former aversion to the station in
which I was acting, and it has been increasing ever
since.] It has been often with great difficulty that
I have prevailed upon myself not to renounce it ; but
while, from motives of public utility, I was doing
violence to my feelings, I was always determined, if

Private Correspondence 235

there should ever happen a breach between us, never
to consent to an accommodation. I was persuaded
that when once that nice barrier, which marked the
boundaries of what we owed to each other, should
be thrown down, it might be propped again, but
could never be restored.

[I resolved, whenever it should happen, not to be
in the wrong. I was convinced the concessions the
General might make would be dictated by his in-
terest, and that his self-love would never forgive me
for what it would regard as a humiliation.

I believe you know the place I held in the General's
confidence and counsels, which will make it the more
extraordinary to you to learn that for three years
past I have felt no friendship for him and have pro-
fessed none. The truth is, our dispositions are the
opposites of each other, and the pride of my temper
would not suffer me to profess what I did not feel.
Indeed, when advances of this kind have been made to
me on his part, they were received in a manner that
showed at least that I had no desire to court them,
and that I desired to stand rather upon a footing of
military confidence than of private attachment.

You are too good a judge of human nature not to
be sensible how this conduct in me must have oper-
ated on a man to whom all the world is offering in-
cense. With this key you will easily unlock the
present mystery.

At the end of the war I may say many things to
you concerning which I shall impose upon myself
till then an inviolable silence.]

The General is a very honest man. His com-

236 Alexander Hamilton

petitors have slender abilities, and less integrity.
His popularity has often been essential to the safety
of America, and is still of great importance to it.
These considerations have influenced my past con-
duct respecting him, and will influence my future. I
think it is necessary he should be supported.

His estimation in your mind, whatever may be its
amount, I am persuaded has been formed on prin-
ciples which a circumstance like this cannot ma-
terially affect; but if I thought it could diminish
your friendship for him, I should almost forego the
motives that urge me to justify myself to you. I
wish what I have said to make no other impression
than to satisfy you I have not been in the wrong. It
is also said in confidence, as a public knowledge of
the breach would, in many ways, have an ill effect.
It will probably be the policy of both sides to conceal
it, and cover the separation with some plausible pre-
text. I am importuned by such of my friends as
are privy to the affair, to listen to a reconciliation;
but my resolution is unalterable.

As I cannot think of quitting the army during the
war, I have a project of re-entering into the artillery,
by taking Lieutenant-Colonel Forrest's place, who is
desirous of retiring on half -pay. I have not, how-
ever, made up my mind upon this head, as I should
be obliged to come in the youngest Lieutenant-Col-
onel instead of the eldest, which I ought to have been
by natural succession, had I remained in the corps;
and, at the same time, to resume studies relative to
the profession, which, to avoid inferiority, must be
laborious.

Private Correspondence 237

If a handsome command in the campaign in the
light infantry should offer itself, I shall balance be-
tween this and the artillery. My situation in the
latter would be more solid and permanent : but as I
hope the war will not last long enough to make it
progressive, this consideration has the less force. A
command for the campaign would leave me the win-
ter to prosecute studies relative to my future career
in life.^ I have written to you on this subject with
all the freedom and confidence to which you have a
right, and with an assurance of the interest you take
in all that concerns me.

TO GENERAL GREENE

February, 1781.

Dear General:

I acknowledge myself to have been unpardonably
delinquent in not having written to you before, but
my matrimonial occupations have scarcely left me
leisure or inclination for any other. I must now be
brief, as the post is just setting out. I shall shortly
write you at large. I have not been much in the way
of knowing sentiments out of the army, but as far as
I am acquainted with them, either in or out, you
have great reason to be satisfied. Your conduct in
the southern command seems to be universally ap-
proved, and your reputation is progressive. How
long this will last, the wheel of fortune will have too
much in determining. I cannot tell you any thing

' There is a break marked here in the edition of 1850, but my copy
of the original letter does not indicate any omission.

238 Alexander Hamilton

of our prospects here, because we know little about
them ourselves. Hitherto we have received few
recruits. I fear this campaign will be a defensive
one on our part. Harrison has left the General to
be a chief -justice of Maryland. I am about leaving
him to be any thing that fortune may cast up — I
mean in the military line. This, my dear General,
is not an affair of calculation, but of feeling. You
may divine the rest, and I am sure you will keep
your divinations to yourself. The enemy have
gotten so much in the way of intercepting our mails
that I am afraid of seeing whatever I write hung up
the week after in Rivington's Gazette. This obliges
me to be cautious. Adieu. My dear General, let
me beg you will believe that whatever change there
may be in my situation, there will never be any in
my respect, esteem, and affection for you.

P. S. — Let me know if I could find any thing worth
my while to do in the southern army. You know I
shall hate to be nominally a soldier.'

TO WASHINGTON

De Peyster's Point, April 27, 1781.

Sir:

I imagine your Excellency has been informed that
in consequence of the resolution of Congress for
granting commissions to aids- de- camp appointed
under the former establishment, I have obtained

' This letter is reprinted from the History of the Republic, ii . , 1 8 7 . It
has no date except the year, but was evidently written just after the
disagreement with Washington, of Feb. 1 6th, described in the preceding
letter.

Private Correspondence 239

one of lieutenant-colonel in the army of the United
States, bearing rank since the first of March, 1777.

It is become necessary to me to apply to your Ex-
cellency to know in what manner you foresee you
will be able to employ me in the ensuing campaign.
I am ready to enter into activity whenever you think
proper, though I am not anxious to do it till the
army takes the field, as before that period I perceive
no object.

Unconnected as I am with any regiment, I can
have no other command than in a light corps, and I
flatter myself my pretensions to this are good.

Your Excellency knows I have been in actual ser-
vice since the beginning of '76. I began in the line,
and had I continued there I ought in justice to have
been more advanced in rank than I now am. I be-
lieve my conduct in the different capacities in which
I have acted has appeared to the officers of the
army in general such as to merit their confidence and
esteem; and I cannot suppose them to be so ungener-
ous as not to see me with pleasure put into a situa-
tion still to exercise the disposition I have always had
of being useful to the United States. I mention
these things only to show that I do not apprehend
the same difficulties can exist in my case (which is
peculiar) that have opposed the appointments to
commands of some other officers not belonging to
what is called the line. Though the light infantry
is chiefly formed, yet being detached to the south-
ward, I take it for granted there will be a vanguard
detachment formed for this army.

240 Alexander Hamilton

TO WASHINGTON

De Peyster's Point, May 2, 1781.

Sir:

I am extremely sorry to have embarrassed you by
my late application, and that you should think there
are insuperable obstacles to a compliance with it.
Having renounced my expectations, I have no other
inducement for troubling your Excellency with a
second letter, than to obviate the appearance of
having desired a thing inconsistent with the good of
the service, while I was acquainted with the circum-
stances that made it so.

I was too interested a spectator of what happened
in the case of Major M'Pherson, not to have re-
marked, and not to recollect, all the circumstances.
The opposition turned ostensibly on his being a
brevet officer, yet having a command in a corps
formed entirely from one line; the propriety of his
being employed in a detachment from the army at
large, so far as I remember, was not disputed. In
delicacy to Major M'Pherson, no personal objections
were formally made, but in reality they existed and
contributed to the discontent. It was thought a
peculiar hardship that a gentleman who had for a
long time fought against us, and had not taken part
with us till a late period and when our affairs had
assumed a more prosperous aspect, should be pre-
ferred in one of the most honorary commands of the
service. Your Excellency must be convinced that
I mention this in no other view than to show the
sentiments of the officers at the time and the whole

Private Correspondence 241

grounds for the opposition. My esteem for Major
M'Pherson, and other reasons, make it impossible I
can have a different intention.

I know less of the motives of dissatisfaction in the
case of Colonel Gimat and Major Gal van; but I
have understood that it is founded on their being
appointed in the light corps for two successive
campaigns.

It would be uncandid in me not to acknowledge
that I believe a disposition to exclude brevet officers
in general from command has a great share in the
opposition in every instance, and that so far it
affects my case. But, at the same time, it appears
to me this principle alone can never be productive of
more than momentary murmurs, where it is not
seconded by some plausible pretext. I also am
convinced that the Pennsylvania officers, for their
own sakes, repented the rash steps they had taken,
and, on cool reflection, were happy in an opportu-
nity to relinquish their menaces of quitting a service
to which they were attached by habit, inclination,
and interest, as well as by patriotism. I believe,
too, we shall never have a similar instance in the
army unless the practice should be carried to excess.
Major Galvan, I am told, will probably be relieved.
Colonel Gimat will be then the only brevet officer
remaining in command. Your Excellency is the
best judge of the proper limits, and there can be no
doubt that the rights of particular officers ought to
give place to the general good and tranquillity of
the service.

I cannot forbear repeating that my case is pe-

VOL. IX.— 16.

242 Alexander Hamilton

culiar and dissimilar to all the former. It is dis-
tinguished by the circumstances I have before
intimated: my early entrance into the service; my
having made the campaign of '76, the most disagree-
able of the war, at the head of a company of artil-
lery, and having been entitled in that corps to a
rank equal in degree, and more ancient in date, than
I now possess; my having made all the subsequent
campaigns in the family of the Commander-in-Chief,
in a constant course of important and laborious ser-
vice. These are my pretensions, at this advanced
period of the war, to being employed in the only way
which my situation admits; and I imagine they
would have their weight in the minds of the officers
in general. I only urge them a second time as rea-
sons which will not suffer me to view the matter in
the same light with your Excellency, or to regard
as impracticable my appointment in a light corps,
should there be one formed. I entreat that they
may be understood in this sense only. I am in-
capable of wishing to obtain any object by impor-
tunity. I assure your Excellency that I am too well
persuaded of your candor to attribute your refusal
to any other cause than an apprehension of incon-
veniences that may attend the appointment.

P. S. — I have used the term brevet in the sense
your Excellency appears to have understood it in,
as signifying, in general, all officers not attached to
any established corps. Congress seem, however, to
have made a distinction: they only give a kind of
warrant to those whom they designate as brevet
officers. Mine is a regular commission.

Private Correspondence 243

TO MRS. HAMILTON

Camp near Dobbs Ferry, July lo, 1781.

The day before yesterday I arrived here, but for
want of an opportunity could not write any sooner;
indeed, I know of none now. Finding, when I came
here, that nothing was said on the subject of a
command, I wrote the General a letter, and inclosed
him my commission. This morning Tilghman came
to me in his name, pressed me to retain my commis-
sion, with an assurance that he would endeavor, by
all means, to give me a command, nearly such as I
could have desired in the present circumstances of
the army. Though I know you would be happy to
hear had I rejected this proposal, it is a pleasure my
reputation would not permit me to afford you. I
consented to retain my commission, and accept the
command. I quarter, at present, by a very polite
and warm invitation, with General Lincoln, and ex-
perience from the officers of both armies every mark
of esteem. * * *

TO WASHINGTON

Camp, August 7, 1781.

Sir:

The other day I applied to Colonel Tilghman for
an order for shoes, for the two companies of levies.
He thought, on a general principle, it could not be
granted; but as from the best of my recollection,
confirmed by inquiry of others, I have reason to be-
lieve a distinction was made last campaign in favor
of the advanced corps, in the case of Cortland's

244 Alexander Hamilton

regiment, I am induced to submit the matter to your
Excellency.

Your Excellency is sensible that the service of an
advanced corps, must be in general more active than
of the line; and that, in a country like this, the
article of shoes is indispensable. If the men cannot
be supplied, they cannot perform the duty required
of them; which will make the service fall heavier
upon that part of the corps which is not under the
same disability, as well as render a considerable part
of it of much less utility. I will not add any per-
sonal consideration to those which affect the service ;
though it certainly cannot be a matter of indifference
to me.

The men, I am informed, have, in general, received
a bounty of about thirty pounds each, which is
spent. The State makes no provision for them; and
the fact is, they cannot supply themselves: they
must therefore be destitute, if they have not a con-
tinental supply.

The distinction last campaign was, if I am not
mistaken, that shoes were an article of absolute
necessity, and therefore to be allowed, though the
articles of clothing were refused.

TO MRS. HAMILTON

August, 1 78 1.

In my last letter I informed you that there was a
greater prospect of activity now, than there had
been heretofore. I did this to prepare your mind for
an event which, I am sure, will give you pain. I

Private Correspondence 245

begged your father, at the same time, to intimate to
you, by degrees, the probabiHty of its taking place.
I used this method to prevent a surprise, v^hich
might be too severe to you. A part of the army, my
dear girl, is going to Virginia, and I must, of neces-
sity, be separated at a much greater distance from
my beloved wife. I cannot announce the fatal
necessity, without feeling every thing that a fond
husband can feel. I am unhappy; I am unhappy
beyond expression. I am unhappy, because I am to
be so remote from you; because I am to hear from
you less frequently than I am accustomed to do. I
am miserable, because I know you will be so; I am
wretched at the idea of flying so far from you, with-
out a single hour's interview, to tell you all my pains
and all my love. But I cannot ask permission to
visit you. It might be thought improper to leave
my corps at such a time and upon such an occasion.
I must go without seeing you — I must go without
embracing you; — alas! I must go. But let no idea,
other than of the distance we shall be asunder, dis-
quiet you. Though I said the prospects of activity
will be greater, I said it to give your expectations a
different turn, and prepare you for something dis-
agreeable. It is ten to one that our views will be dis-
appointed, by Comwallis retiring to South Carolina
by land. At all events, our operations will be over
by the latter end of October, and I will fly to my
home. Don't mention I am going to Virginia.

246 Alexander Hamilton

TO MRS. HAMILTON

Head of Elk, Sept. 6, 1781.

Yesterday, my lovely wife, I wrote to you, inclos-
ing you a letter in one to your father, to the care of
Mr. Morris. To-morrow the post sets out, and to-
morrow we embark for Yorktown. I cannot refuse
myself the pleasure of writing you a few lineSo Con-
stantly uppermost in my thoughts and affections, I
am happy only when my moments are devoted to
some office that respects you. I would give the
world to be able to tell you all I feel and all I wish,
but consult your own heart and you will know mine.
What a world will soon be between us! To support
the idea, all my fortitude is insufficient. What must
be the case with you, who have the most female of
female hearts? I sink at the perspective of your
distress, and I look to heaven to be your guardian
and supporter. Circumstances that have just come
to my knowledge assure me that our operations will
be expeditious, as well as our success certain. Early
in November, as I promised you, we shall certainly
meet. Cheer yourself with this idea, and with the
assurance of never more being separated. Every
day confirms me in the intention of renouncing pub-
lic life and devoting myself wholly to you. Let
others waste their time and their tranquillity in a
vain pursuit of power and glory ; be it my object to
be happy in a quiet retreat with my better angel.

i

Private Correspondence 247

TO MRS. HAMILTON

September, 1781.

How chequered is hiiman life! How precarious is
happiness! How easily do we often part with it for
a shadow! These are the reflections that frequently
intrude themselves upon me with a painful applica-
tion. I am going to do my duty. Our operations
will be so conducted as to economize the lives of men.
Exert your fortitude and rely upon heaven. '

TO LAFAYETTE

Camp before Yorktown, Oct. 15, 1781.

Sir:

I have the honor to render you an account of the
corps under my command in your attack of last
night upon the redoubt on the left of the enemy's
lines.

Agreeably to your orders, we advanced in two
columns with unloaded arms: the right, composed of
Lieutenant-Colonel Gimat's battalion and my own,
commanded by Major Fish; the left, of a detach-
ment commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Laurens,
destined to take the enemy in reverse, and intercept
their retreat. The column on the right was preceded
by a vanguard of twenty men, led by Lieutenant
Mansfield, and a detachment of sappers and miners,
commanded by Captain Gilliland, for the purpose of
removing obstructions.

The redoubt was commanded by Major Campbell,
with a detachment of British and German troops,
and was completely in a state of defence.

* Reprinted from the History of the Republic, ii., 260.

248 Alexander Hamilton

The rapidity and immediate success of the assault
are the best comment on the behavior of the troops.
Lieutenant-Colonel Laurens distinguished himself by
an exact and vigorous execution of his part of the
plan, by entering the enemy's works with his corps
among the foremost, and making prisoner the com-
manding officer of the redoubt. Lieutenant-Colonel
Gimat's battalion, which formed the van of the right
attack, and which fell under my immediate observa-
tion, encouraged by the decisive and animated ex-
ample of their leader, advanced with an ardor and
resolution superior to every obstacle. They were
well seconded by Major Fish, with the battalion
imder his command, who, when the front of the
column reached the abatis, unlocking his corp to the
left, as he had been directed, advanced with such
celerity as to arrive in time to participate in the
assault.

Lieutenant Mansfield deserves particular com-
mendation for the coolness, firmness, and punctuality
with which he conducted the vanguard. Captain
Olney, who commanded the first platoon of Gimat's
battalion, is entitled to peculiar applause. He led
his platoon into the work with exemplary intrepidity,
and received two bayonet wounds. Captain Gilli-
land, with the detachment of sappers and miners,
acquitted themselves in a manner that did them
great honor.

I do but justice to the several corps when I have
the pleasure to assure you there was not an officer
nor soldier whose behavior, if it could be particular-
ized, would not have a claim to the warmest appro-

Private Correspondence 249

bation. As it would have been attended with delay
and loss to wait for the removal of the abatis and
palisades, the ardor of the troops was indulged in
passing over them.

There was a happy coincidence of movements.
The redoubt was in the same moment enveloped and
carried in every part. The enemy are entitled to the
acknowledgment of an honorable defence.

Permit me to have the satisfaction of expressing
our obligations to Col. Armand, Capt. Legongne, the
Chevalier De Fontevieux, and Capt. Bedkin, officers
of his corps, who, acting upon this occasion as volun-
teers, proceeded at the head of the right column,
and, entering the redoubt among the first, by their
gallant example contributed to the success of the
enterprise.

Our killed and wounded you will perceive by the
enclosed return. I sensibly felt, at a critical period,
the loss of the assistance of Lieutenant-Colonel
Gimat, who received a musket ball in his foot, which
obliged him to retire from the field. Captain Bets,
of Laurens's corps, Captain Hunt and Lieutenant
Mansfield, of Gimat 's were wounded with the bayonet
in gallantly entering the work. Captain Kirkpat-
rick, of the corps of sappers and miners, received a
wound in the ditch.

Inclosed is a return of the prisoners. The killed
and wounded of the enemy did not exceed eight.
Incapable of imitating examples of barbarity, and,
forgetting recent provocations, the soldiery spared
every man who ceased to fight.
Alexander Hamilton

Return of the Killed and Wounded in the Advanced Corps

Commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Hamilton, in an

Attack on the Enemy's Left Redoubt on the

Evening of the 14TH Oct., 1781.

Lieut.-
Cols.

Majors.

Capt's.

Sub-
alterns-

Ser-
geants.

Rank
and
File.

Lt.-Col. Hamilton's battal-
ion
i

c

I

I
I
1

i
I
I
TJ
^
S

c
1

I
I

-d

I
I
A
I
-d
Lt.-Col. Gimat's battalion .

Lt -Col. Laurens's detach-

ixient
Corps of Sappers and Miners
Total

I
2^

TO MRS. HAMILTON

YORKTOWN, Oct. 16, 1 78 1.

Two nights ago, my Eliza, my duty and my honor
obliged me to take a step in which your happiness
was too much risked. I commanded an attack upon
one of the enemy's redoubts; we carried it in an
instant, and with little loss. You will see the par-
ticulars in the Philadelphia papers. There will be,
certainly, nothing more of this kind ; all the rest will
be by approach; and if there should be another
occasion, it will not fall to my turn to execute it.^

I Reprinted from the History of the Republic, ii., 275.

Private Correspondence 251

TO WASHINGTON

March i, 1782.

Sir:

I need not observe to your Excellency that respect
for the opinion of Congress will not permit me to be
indifferent to the impressions they may receive of
my conduct. On this principle, though I do not
think the subject of the enclosed letter of sufficient
importance to request an official communication of
it, yet I should be happy it might in some way be
known to the members of that honorable body.
Should they hereafter learn that, though retained on
the list of their officers, I am not in the execution of
the duties of my station, I wish them to be sensible
that it is not a diminution of zeal which induces me
voluntarily to withdraw my services, but that I only
refrain from intruding them when circumstances
seem to have made them either not necessary or not
desired; and that I shall not receive emoluments
without performing the conditions to which they
were annexed. I also wish them to be apprised upon
what footing my future continuance in the army is
placed, that they may judge how far it is expedient
to permit it. I therefore take the liberty to request
the favor of your Excellency to impart the know-
ledge of my situation in such manner as you think
most convenient.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, March i, 1782.

Sir.

Your Excellency will, I am persuaded, readily
admit the force of this sentiment, that though it is

252 Alexander Hamilton

the duty of a good citizen to devote his services to
the public when it has occasion for them, he cannot
with propriety or delicacy to himself obtrude them
when it either has, or appears to have none. The
difficulties I experienced last campaign in obtaining
a command will not suffer me to make any further
application on that head.

As I have many reasons to consider my being em-
ployed hereafter in a precarious light, the bare possi-
bility of rendering an equivalent will not justify to
my scruples the receiving any future emoluments
from my commission. I therefore renounce, from
this time, all claim to the compensations attached
to my military station during the war or after-
wards. But I have motives which will not permit
me to resolve on a total resignation. I sincerely
hope a prosperous train of affairs may continue
to make it no inconvenience to decline the services
of persons whose zeal, in worse times, was foimd
not altogether useless ; but as the most promising
appearances are often reversed by unforeseen dis-
asters, and as unfortunate events may again make
the same zeal of some value, I am imwilling to put
it out of my power to renew my exertions in the
common cause in the line in which I have hitherto
acted.

I shall accordingly retain my rank while I am per-
mitted to do it, and take this opportunity to declare
that I shall be at all times ready to obey the call of
the public in any capacity, civil or military (con-
sistent with what I owe to myself), in which there
may be a prospect of my contributing to the final

Private Correspondence 253

attainment of the object for which I embarked in
the service.'

TO RICHARD K. MEADE '

Philadelphia, March, 1782.

A half hour since brought me the pleasure of your
letter of December last. It went to Albany and
came from thence to this place. I heartily felicitate
you on the birth of your daughter. I can well con-
ceive your happiness on that occasion by that which
I feel on a similar one. Indeed, the sensations of a
tender father of the child of a beloved mother can
only be conceived by those who have experienced
them.

Your heart, my dear Meade, is peculiarly formed
for enjoyments of this kind. You have every right
to be a happy husband — a happy father. You have
every prospect of being so. I hope your felicity may
never be interrupted.

You cannot imagine how entirely domestic I am
growing. I lose all taste for the pursuits of ambi-
tion. I sigh for nothing but the company of my
wife and my baby. The ties of duty alone, or im-
agined duty, keep me from renouncing public life
altogether. It is, however, probable I may not any
longer be engaged in it. I have explained to you
the difficulties which I met with in obtaining a

* This was inclosed in the preceding letter. History of the Republic,
ii., 279.

2 Col. Meade, of Virginia, was one of Washington's confidential and
trusted aides-de-camp. He was a gallant soldier and an intimate
friend of Hamilton.

254 Alexander Hamilton

command last campaign. I thought it incompatible
with the delicacy due to myself to make any applica-
tion this campaign. I have expressed this senti-
ment in a letter to the General, and, retaining my
rank only, have relinquished the emoluments of my
commission, declaring myself , notwithstanding, ready
at all times to obey the "calls of the public. I don't
expect to hear any of these, unless the state of our
affairs should change for the worse, and, lest by any
unforeseen accident that would happen, I choose to
keep myself in a situation again to contribute my
aid. This prevents a total resignation.

You were right in supposing I neglected to prepare
what I promised you at Philadelphia. The truth is
I was in such a hurry to get home that I could think
of nothing else. As I set out to-morrow morning
for Albany, I cannot from this place send you the
matter you wish.

Imagine, my dear Meade, what pleasure it must
give Eliza and myself to know that Mrs. Meade in-
terests herself in us. Without a personal acquaint-
ance, we have been long attached to her. My visit
at Mr. Fitzhugh's confirmed my partiality. Betsy
is so fond of your family that she proposes to form a
match between her boy and your girl, provided you
will engage to make the latter as amiable as her
mother.

Truly, my dear Meade, I often regret that fortune
has cast our residence at such a distance from each
other. It would be a serious addition to my happi-
ness if we lived where I could see you every day, but
fate has determined it otherwise. I am a little hur-

Private Correspondence 255

ried, and can only request, in addition, that you will
present me most affectionately to Mrs. Meade, and
believe me to be, etc.

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, May i8, 1782.

Sir:

I had this day the honor of receiving your letter
of the 2d instant, and am much obliged by the mark
of your confidence which it contains, and to Col.
Stewart for his friendly intentions upon the occasion.

My military situation has indeed become so nega-
tive, that I have no motive to continue in it; and if
my services could be of importance to the public in
a civil line, I should cheerfully obey its command.
But the plan which I have marked out to myself is
the profession of the law, and I am now engaged in
a course of studies for that purpose. Time is so
precious to me that I could not put myself in the way
of any interruptions, unless for an object of conse-
quence to the public or to myself. The present is
not of this nature. Such are the circumstances of
this State, the benefit arising from the office you
propose would not, during the war, exceed yearly
one hundred pounds; for, unfortunately, I am per-
suaded it will not pay annually into the Continental
treasury above forty thousand pounds; and, on a
peace establishment, this will not be for some time
to come much more than doubled. You will per-
ceive, sir, that an engagement of this kind does not

256 Alexander Hamilton

correspond with my views, and does not afford a
sufficient inducement to relinquish them.

I am not the less sensible of the obliging motives
which dictated the offer, and it will be an additional
one to that respect and esteem with which I have
the honor to be, etc.

TO GENERAL KNOX

Albany, June 7, 1782.

Dear General:

We are told here that there is a British officer
coming on from Comwallis' army to be executed by
way of retaliation for the murder of Capt. Huddy.
As this appears to me clearly to be an ill-timed pro-
ceeding, and if persisted in will be derogatory to the
national character, I cannot forbear communicating
to you my ideas upon the subject. A sacrifice of
this sort is entirely repugnant to the genius of the
age we live in, and is without example in modem
history, nor can it fail to be considered in Europe
as wanton and unnecessary. It appears that the
enemy (from necessity, I grant, but the operation is
the same) have changed their system and adopted a
more humane one ; and, therefore, the only justifying
motive of retaliation — the preventing a repetition of
cruelty — ceases. But if this were not the case, so
solemn and deliberate a sacrifice of the innocent for
the guilty must be condemned on the present re-
ceived notions of humanity, and encourage an opin-
ion that we are, in a certain degree, in a state of
barbarism. Our affairs are now in a prosperous train,

Private Correspondence 257

and so vigorous — I would rather say so violent — a
measure would want the plea of necessity. It would
argue meanness in us that at this late stage of the
war, in the midst of success, we should suddenly de-
part from that temper with which we have all along
borne with a great and more frequent provocation.
The death of Andre could not have been dispensed
with, but it must still be viewed at a distance as an
act of rigid justice. If we wreak our resentment on
an innocent person, it will be suspected that we are
too fond of executions. I am persuaded it will have
an influence peculiarly unfavorable to the General's
character.

If it is seriously believed that in this advanced
stage of affairs retaliation is necessary, let another
mode be chosen. Let under actors be employed,
and let the authority by which it is done be wrapt in
obscurity and doubt. Let us endeavor to make it
fall upon those who have had a direct or indirect
share in the guilt. Let not the Commander-in-
Chief — considered as the first and most respectable
character among us — come forward in person and
be the avowed author of an act at which every hu-
mane feeling revolts. Let us at least have as much
address as the enemy; and, if we must have victims,
appoint some obscure agents to perform the cere-
mony and bear the odium which must always attend
even justice itself when directed by extreme severity.

For my own part, my dear sir, I think a business
of this complexion entirely out of season. The time
for it, if there ever was one, is past.

But it is said that the Commander-in-Chief has

VOL. IX. — 17.

258 Alexander Hamilton

pledged himself for it and cannot recede. Incon-
sistency in this case would be better than consist-
ency. But pretexts may be found and will be
readily admitted in favor of humanity. Carleton
will in all probability do something like apology and
concession. He will give appearances of preventing
everything of the kind in future. Let the General
appear to be satisfied with these appearances. The
steps Carleton is said to have taken to suppress the
refugee incursions will give the better color to lenity.
I address myself to you upon this occasion, be-
cause I know your liberality and your influence with
the General. If you are of my opinion, I am sure
you will employ it, if it should not be too late. I
would not think a letter necessary, but I know how
apt men are to be actuated by the circumstances
which immediately surroimd them, and to be led
into an approbation of measures which, in another
situation, they would disapprove. Mrs. Hamilton
joins me in compliments to Mrs. Knox.'

^ This letter is printed from the original in the possession of the
New England Historical Genealogical Society [Knox MSS., vol. viii.,
pp. 170-172]. It has already been printed in the History of the Re-
public, ii., 284. The affair to which it refers was the murder of Captain
Huddy, an American officer, by a party of refugees under the com-
mand of Captain Lippincott. The anger excited by this brutal out-
rage was intense, and Washington was so strongly moved, that he
demanded from Sir Guy Carleton the surrender of Lippincott. This
being refused, he ordered a British officer to be selected from among
the prisoners and held in close confinement preparatory to execution
if Sir Guy Carleton would not yield. The lot fell upon Captain Asgill,
an officer of the Guards and a boy of nineteen. Captain Asgill was
finally released, as Washington could not bring himself to this act of
retaliation, even as a last extremity, and the real culprit escaped. It
was while Asgill was in prison with death hanging over him that
Hamilton wrote this letter.

Private Correspondence 259

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, June 17, 1782.

Sir:

The letter which you did me the honor to write me,
of the 4th instant, came to my hands too late to per-
mit me to answer it by the return of the same post.
The explanation you give of your intention in your
late offer makes it an object that will fully compen-
sate for the time it will deduct from my other oc-
cupations. In accepting it, I have only one scruple,
arising from a doubt whether the service I can render
in the present state of things will be an equivalent
for the compensation. The whole system (if it may
be so called) of taxation in this State is radically
vicious, burthensome to the people, and unproduc-
tive to government. As the matter now stands,
there seems to be little for a continental receiver to
do. The whole business appears to be thrown into
the hands of the county treasurers, nor do I find that
there is any appropriation made of any part of the
taxes collected to continental purposes, or any pro-
vision to authorize payment to the officer you ap-
point ; this, however, must be made. There is only
one way in which I can imagine a prospect of being
materially useful — that is, in seconding your applica-
tion to the State. In popular assemblies much may
sometimes be brought about by personal discussions,
by entering into details and combating objections as
they rise. If it should at any time be thought ad-
visable by you to empower me to act in this capacity,
I shall be happy to do every thing that depends on
me to effectuate your views. I flatter myself to you,

26o Alexander Hamilton

sir, I need not profess that I suggest this, not from a
desire to augment the importance of office, but to
advance the public interest.

It is of primary moment to me as soon as possible
to take my station in the law, and on this considera-
tion I am pressing to qualify myself for admission
to next term, which will be the latter end of July.
After this, if you think an interview with me neces-
sary I will wait upon you in Philadelphia. In the
meantime I shall be happy to receive your instruc-
tions, and shall direct my attention more particu-
larly to acquiring whatever information may be
useful to my future operations. I have read your
publications at different times, but as I have not the
papers containing them in my possession, it will be
necessary that their contents should be comprised
in your instructions. A meeting of the Legislature
is summoned early in the next month, at which, if I
previously receive your orders, it may be possible to
put matters in train.

I am truly indebted to you, sir, for the disposition
you have manifested upon this occasion ; and I shall
only add an assurance of my endeavors to justify
your confidence and prove to you the sincerity of
that respectful attachment with which
I am, sir, etc.

Private Correspondence 261

TO COMFORT SANDS '

Albany, June 23, 1782.

Sir:

Mr. Morris having lately offered me the appoint-
ment of Receiver of Continental Taxes for this State,
I wish to collect as much and as accurate information
as possible of the situation of its money concerns. It
will be, among other things, of great importance that
I should form an idea of the money brought into the
State and carried out of it ; and, with a view to this,
I take the liberty to request you will furnish me with
an estimate of what you have reason to think you
will lay out in this State in the course of a year in the
transactions of your contract business. Mr. Duer
has been so obliging as to promise me a sketch of his
disbursements in this quarter, and has informed me
that you are principally charged with what relates
to the supplies of the main army as well as West
Point, and will therefore be best able to enlighten me
on that head. The calculation may not admit of
absolute precision; but if it comes near the truth it
will answer. It would be useful that you could dis-
tinguish, as nearly as possible, what part will be in
specie, what in bank and other notes. As this is a
matter that can be attended with no inconvenience
to any person, and will be conducive to the public
utility, I flatter myself you will favor me with a
speedy communication.

* A merchant and army contractor of New York.

262 Alexander Hamilton

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, July 13, 1782.

Sir:

I have this moment received your letter of the
second inst., and as the post will set out on its return
in half an hour, I have little more than time to ac-
knowledge the receipt of it.

I shall to-morrow morning commence a journey to
Poughkeepsie, where the Legislature are assembled,
and I will endeavor by every step in my power to
second your views, though, I am sorry to add, with-
out very sanguine expectations. I think it proba-
ble the Legislature will do something, but whatever
momentary effort they may make, till the entire
change of their present system very little will be
done. To effect this, mountains of prejudice and
particular interest are to be levelled. For my own
part, considering the late serious misfortune of our
ally, the spirit of reformation, of wisdom, and of
unanimity, which seems to have succeeded to that of
blunder, perverseness, and dissension in the British
Government, and the universal reluctance of these
States to do what is right, I cannot help viewing our
situation as critical, and I feel it the duty of every
citizen to exert his faculties to the utmost to support
the measures, especially those solid arrangements of
finance on which our safety depends.

I will by the next post forward you the bond exe-
cuted with proper sureties.

It is not in the spirit of compliment, but of sin-
cerity, I assure you, that the opinion I entertain of
him who presides in the department was not one of

Private Correspondence 263

the smallest motives to my acceptance of the office;
nor will that esteem and confidence which makes me
now sensibly feel the obliging expressions of your
letter fail to have a great share in influencing my
future exertions.

TO GOVERNOR CLINTON

POUGHKEEPSIE, July l6, 1 782.

Sir:

I have the honor to inclose your Excellency the
copy of a warrant from the Honorable Robert Morris,
Esq., Superintendent of the Finances of the United
States, by which you will perceive that, agreeable to
the resolution of Congress, of the 2d of November
last, he has appointed me Receiver of the Continental
Taxes of the State. I am therefore to request that
the Legislature will be pleased to vest in me the au-
thority required by that resolution.

It is a part of my duty to explain to the Legisla-
ture, from time to time, the views of the Superin-
tendent of Finance, in pursuance of the orders of
Congress, that they may be the better enabled to
judge of the measures most proper to be adopted
for an effectual co-operation. For this purpose I
pray your Excellency to impart my request, that I
may have the honor of a conference with a committee
of the two Houses, at such time and place as they
may find convenient.

264 Alexander Hamilton

TO ROBERT MORRIS

POUGHKEEPSIE, July 22, 1 782.

Sir:

Agreeably to my letter to you from Albany, I
came to this place and had an interview with a com-
mittee of the Legislature, in which I urged the
several matters contained in your instructions. I
strongly represented the necessity of solid arrange-
ments of finance, and, by way of argument, pointed
out all the defects of the present system. I found
every man convinced that something was wrong, but
few that were willing to recognize the mischief when
defined, and consent to the proper remedy. The
quantum of taxes already imposed is so great as to
make it useless to impose any others to a considerable
amount. A bill has, however, passed both Houses,
payable in specie, bank notes, or your notes, for
eighteen thousand pounds. It is at present appro-
priated to your order, but I doubt whether some
subsequent arrangement will not take place for a
different appropriation. The Commander-in-Chief
has applied for a quantity of forage, which the Legis-
lature is devising the means of furnishing, and I fear
it will finish by diverting the eighteen thousand
pounds to that purpose. I have hitherto been able
to prevent this, but as it is of indispensable import-
ance to me to leave this place immediately to prepare
for my examination, for which I have pledged my-
self the ensuing term, which is at hand, it is possible,
after I have left it, that contrary ideas will prevail.
Efforts have been made to introduce a species of
negotiable certificates, which I have strenuously op-

Private Correspondence 265

posed. It has not yet taken place, but I am not
clear how the matter will terminate.

Should the bill for the eighteen thousand pounds
go out in its present form, I cannot hope that it will
produce in the treasury above half the sum, such are
the vices of our present mode of collection.

A bill has also passed the Assembly for collecting
arrearages of taxes, payable in specie, bank notes,
your notes, old continental emissions at one hundred
and twenty-eight for one, and a species of certificates
issued by the State for the purchase of horses. This is
now before the Senate. The arrearages are very large.

Both Houses have unanimously passed a set of
resolutions, to be transmitted to Congress and the
several States, proposing a convention of the States,
to enlarge the powers of Congress and vest them with
funds. I think this a very eligible step, though I
doubt of the concurrence of the other States; but I
am certain without it they will never be brought to
co-operate in any reasonable or effectual plan. Urge
reforms or exertions, and the answer constantly is:
What avails it for one State to make them without
the concert of the others ? It is in vain to expose the
futility of this reasoning; it is founded in all those
passions which have the strongest influence on the
human mind.

The Legislature have also appointed, at my in-
stance, a committee to devise, in its recess, a more
effectual system of taxation, and to communicate
with me on this subject. A good deal will depend
on the success of this attempt. Convinced of the
absurdity of multiplying taxes in the present mode,

266 Alexander Hamilton

where, in effect, the payment is voluntary, and the
money received exhausted in the collection, I have
labored chiefly to instil the necessity of a change in
the plan, and, though not so rapidly as the exigency
of public affairs requires, truth seems to be making
some progress.

There is other appropriation to the use of Con-
gress than of the eighteen thousand pounds.

I shall, as soon as possible, give you a full and just
view of the situation and temper of this State. This
cannot be till after my intended examination; that
over, I shall lay myself out in every way that can
promote your views and the public good.

I am informed you have an appointment to make
of a Commissioner of Accounts for this State. Per-
mit me to suggest the expediency of choosing a citi-
zen of the State ; a man who, to the qualifications
requisite for the execution of the office, adds an in-
fluence in its affairs. I need not particularize the
reasons of this suggestion. In my next I will also
take the liberty to mention some characters.

I omitted mentioning that the two Houses have
also passed a bill, authorizing Congress to adjust the
quotas of the States on equitable principles, agree-
ably to your recommendation. I enclose you the
bond executed jointly with General Schuyler.

TO GOVERNOR CLINTON

Albany, August 3, 1782.

Sir:

I have lately received a letter from the Super-
intendent of Finance, inclosing a copy of a circu-

Private Correspondence 267

lar- letter from him to the several States, dated
twenty-fifth July, '81, in which he requests informa-
tion on the following important points.

''What supplies, of every kind, money, provisions,
forage, transportation, etc., have been furnished by
this State to the United States, since the eighteenth
of March, 1780."

''The amount of the money in the treasury; the
sums expected to be there; the times they will
probably be brought in; the appropriations."

" The amount of the different paper currencies in
the State; the probable increase, or decrease, of
each; and the respective rates of depreciation."

"The Acts passed since the eighteenth of March,
1780, for raising taxes, furnishing supplies, etc.; the
manner they have been executed; the time neces-
sary for them to operate ; the consequences of their
operation ; the policy of the State relative to laying,
assessing, levying, and collecting taxes."

In his letter, which is circular, to the Receivers, he
says the answers he has received to these inquiries
are few and short of the object; and he therefore
urges me to take the most speedy and effectual means
in my power, to enable him to form a proper judg-
ment on such of the subjects referred to as the actual
state of things renders it important to know.

In compliance with this, I request the favor of
your Excellency to inform me what steps have been
taken on the several heads of which the above is an
abstract; and what progress has been made in the
business ; particularly with respect to the first arti-
cle. I shall also be much obliged to you to direct

268 Alexander Hamilton

Mr. Holt to furnish me, without delay, with the Acts
mentioned in the inclosed list.

Your Excellency must have been too sensible of
the necessity of enabling the Director of the Finances
of the United States to form a just judgment of the
true state of our affairs, to have omitted any measure
in your power to procure the fullest information on
the several matters submitted to you: and I am
persuaded the business is in such a train that little
will be left for me to do.

I entreat you will do me the honor to let me hear
from you as soon as possible on the subject.

It would promote the public business, if you would
be so good as to direct Mr. Banker to supply me with
such information as I might call upon him for. He
is very obliging, but without some authority for the
purpose, there is a delicacy in calling upon him. I
wrote at the same time to Mr. Holt, printer for the
State, desiring him to forward me the copies of
the Acts above mentioned ; and telling him that if the
Governor did not make satisfaction, I would do it.
These Acts were all those relative to finance and
supply, from March i8, 1780, to this time.

TO THE COUNTY TREASURERS

Albany, August 5, 1782.

Sir:

It will be of great utility to the State, and essential
to the execution of my instructions from the Super-
intendent of Finance, that I should be able to ascer-
tain, as speedily as possible, the expense attending

Private Correspondence 269

the collection of taxes within this State. In order
to this, I shall be much obliged to you to send me
without delay an account of what you have received
in your county, since the beginning of the year '80 to
this time, as well for the taxes laid for county pur-
poses, as for those imposed by the Legislature ; and
of the expenses of every kind attending the collec-
tion; those of the supervisors, assessors, the allow-
ance to the collectors and to myself.

When I assure you I want this information for an
important purpose, I doubt not you will forward it
to me as speedily as it can be prepared, and with
as much accuracy as circumstances will permit ; by
doing which you will serve the public and oblige,
sir, etc.

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, August 13, 1782.

Sir:

I promised you in former letters to give you a full
view of the situation and temper of this State. I
now sit down to execute that task.

You have already in your possession a pretty just
picture of the State, drawn by the Legislature, per-
haps too highly colored in some places, but just, and,
in the main, true.

It is the opinion of the most sensible men with
whom I converse, who are best acquainted with the
circumstances of the State, and who are least dis-
posed to exaggerate its distress as an excuse for in-
activity, that its faculties for revenue are diminished
at least two thirds.

270 Alexander Hamilton

It will not be difficult to conceive this when we
consider that five out of the fourteen counties of
which the State is composed, including the capital,
are in the hands of the enemy ; that two and part of
a third have revolted; two others have been deso-
lated the greater part by the ravages of the enemy
and of our own troops, and the remaining four have
more or less suffered partial injuries from the same
causes. Adding the fragments of some to repair the
losses of others, the efficient property, strength, and
force of the State will consist in little more than four
counties.

In the distribution of taxes before the war, the
city of New York used to be rated at one third of the
whole; but this was too high, owing probably to
the prevailing of the country influence. Its proper
proportion I should judge to have been about one
fourth, which serves further to illustrate the prob-
able decrease of the State.

Our population, indeed, is not diminished in the
same degree, as many of the inhabitants of the dis-
membered and ruined counties, who have left their
habitations, are dispersed through those which re-
main; and it would seem that the labor of the ad-
ditional hands ought to ensure the culture and value
of these. But there are many deductions to be
made from this apparent advantage: the numbers
that have recruited the British army; those that
have been furnished to ours ; the emigrations to Ver-
mont and to the neighboring States, less harassed
by the war, and affording better encouragements to
industry, both which have been considerable.

Private Correspondence 271

Besides these circumstances, many of the fugitive
famihes are a burthen for their substance upon the
State. The fact is, labor is much dearer than be-
fore the war.

This State has certainly made, in the course of the
war, great exertions, and, upon many occasions, of
the most exhausting kind. This has sometimes
happened from want of judgment; at others, from
necessity. When the army, as has too often been
the case, has been threatened with some fatal calam-
ity— for want of provisions, forage, the means of
transportation, etc., — in consequence of pressing
applications from the Commander-in-Chief, the
Legislature have been obliged to have recourse to
extraordinary expedients to answer the ' pressing
emergency, which have both distressed and disgusted
the people. There is no doubt that, with a prudent
and systematic administration, the State might have
rendered more benefit to the common cause, with
less inconvenience to itself, than by all its forced
efforts; but there, as everywhere else, we have
wanted experience and knowledge. And, indeed,
had this not been the case, every thing everywhere
has been so radically wrong, that it was difficult, if
not impossible, for any one State to be right.

The exposed situation of the frontier, and the fre-
quent calls upon the inhabitants for personal service
on each extremity, by interfering with industry, have
contributed to impoverish the State and fatigue the
people.

Deprived of foreign trade, our internal traffic is
carried on upon the most disadvantageous terms.

272 Alexander Hamilton

It divides itself into three branches : with the city of
New York, with Jersey and Pennsylvania, and with
New England.

That with New York consists chiefly of liixuries
on one part and returns of specie on the other. I
imagine we have taken goods from that place to the
amount of near ;^3o,ooo. The Legislature passed a
severe law to prevent this intercourse, but what will
laws avail against the ingenuity and intrepidity of
avarice ?

From Jersey and Pennsylvania we take about
;^3o,ooo more, and we pay almost entirely in cash.

From Massachusetts and other parts of New Eng-
land we purchase to the amount of about ;^5 0,000,
principally in tea and salt. (The articles of tea and
salt alone cost this State the annual sum of £60,000.)
We sell to these States to the value of about ;^3 0,000.

The immense land transportation, of which the
chief part is carried on by the subjects of other
States, is a vast incumbrance upon otir trade.

The principal article we have to throw in the op-
posite scale is the expenditures of the army. Mr.
Sands informs me that the contractors for the main
army and West Point lay out in this State at the
rate of about $60,000 a year; Mr. Duer, for these
northern posts, about $30,000. If the Quartermas-
ter-General expends as much more in his depart-
ment, the whole will amount to about $180,000. I
speak of what is paid for in specie, or such paper as
answers the purpose of specie. These calculations
cannot absolutely be relied on, because the data are
necessarily uncertain, but they are the result of the

Private Correspondence 273

best information I can obtain, and, if near the truth,
prove that the general balance of trade is against
us — a plain symptom of which is an extreme and
universal scarcity of money.

The situation of the State with respect to its in-
ternal government is not more pleasing. Here we
find the general disease which infects all our consti-
tutions— an excess of popularity. There is no order
that has a will of its own. The inquiry constantly
is what will please, not what will benefit the people.
In such a government there can be nothing but
temporary expenditure, fickleness, and folly.

But the point of view in which this subject will be
interesting to you is that which relates to our finances.
I gave you, in a former letter, a sketch of our plan
of taxation, but I will now be more particular.

The general principle of it is apparent, according
to circumstances and abilities collectively considered.
The ostensible reason for adopting this vague basis
was a desire of equality. It was pretended that this
could not be obtained so well by any fixed tariff of
taxable property, as by leaving it to the discretion
of persons chosen by the people themselves to deter-
mine the ability of each citizen. But perhaps the
true reason was a desire to discriminate between the
Whigs and Tories. This chimerical attempt at per-
fect equahty has resulted in total inequality, or
rather this narrow disposition to overburthen a par-
ticular class of citizens (Hving under the protection
of the government) has been retorted upon the con-
trivers or their friends, wherever that class has been
numerous enough to preponderate in the election of

VOL. IX.— 18.

2/4 Alexander Hamilton

the officers who were to execute the law. The ex-
terior figure a man makes, the decency and mean-
ness of his manner of living, the personal friendships
or dislikes of the assessors, have much more share in
determining what individuals shall pay, than the
proportion of property.

The Legislature first assesses or quotas the several
counties. Here the evil begins — the members cabal
and intrigue to throw the burthen off their respective
constituents. Address and influence, more than con-
siderations of real ability, prevail. A great deal of
time is lost, and a great deal of expense incurred,
before the juggle is ended and the necessary com-
promise made.

The supervisors, of whom there are upon an aver-
age sixteen in each coimty, meet at the notification
of the county clerk, and assign their proportions to
the subdivisions of the coimty, and, in the distribu-
tion, play over the same game which was played in
the Legislature.

The assessors, assembled on a like notification, ac-
cording to their fancies, determine the proportion of
each individual ; a list of which being made out and
signed by the supervisors, is a warrant to the collect-
ors. There are near an hundred upon an average
in each country. The allowance to these officers
has been various. It is now six shillings a day, be-
sides expenses. In some cases they have been lim-
ited to a particular time for executing the business;
but, in general, it is left to their discretion, and the
greater part of them are not in a hurry to complete
it, as they have a conpensation for their trouble and

Private Correspondence 275

live better at the public charge than they are ac-
customed to do at their own. The consequence is
not only delay but a heavy expense.

It now remains for the collectors to collect the tax,
and it is the duty of the supervisors to see that they
do it. Both these offices are elective as well as that
of the assessor; and, of course, there is little dis-
position to risk the displeasure of those who elect.
They have no motive of interest to stimulate them
to their duty equivalent to the inconvenience of per-
forming it. The collector is entitled to the trifling
compensation of sometimes four, sometimes six
pence, out of each pound he collects, and is liable to
the trifling penalty of twenty or twenty-five pounds
for neglect of duty. The supervisors have no in-
terest at all in the collections, and it will not on this
account appear extraordinary, that, with continual
delinquencies in the collection, there has never been
a single prosecution. As I observed on a former oc-
casion, if the collector happens to be a zealous man
and lives in a zealous neighborhood, the taxes are
collected; if either of these requisites are wanting,
the collection languishes or entirely fails.

When the taxes are collected they are paid to
the county treasurer, an officer chosen by the super-
visors. The collectors are responsible to him also;
but as he is allowed only one fourth or one half per
cent., he has no sufficient inducement to incur the
odium of compelling them to do their duty.

The county treasurer pays what he receives in to
the State treasurer, who has an annual salary of
;£3oo, and has nothing to do but to receive and pay

276 Alexander Hamilton

out according to the appropriation of the Legisla-
ture.

Notwithstanding the obvious defects of this sys-
tem; notwithstanding experience has shown it to
be iniquitous and inefficient, and that all attempts
to amend it without totally changing it are fruitless ;
notwithstanding there is a pretty general discontent
from the inequality of the taxes, still ancient habits,
ignorance, the spirit of the times, the opportunity
afforded to some popular characters of screening
themselves by intriguing with the assessors, have
hitherto proved an overmatch for common sense and
common justice, as well as the manifest advantage of
the State and of the United States.

The temper of the State, which I shall now de-
scribe, may be considered under two heads — that of
the rulers and that of the people.

The rulers are generally zealous in the common
cause, though their zeal is oftentimes misdirected.
They are jealous of their own power; but yet, as
this State is the immediate theatre of the war, these
apprehensions of danger, and an opinion that they
are obliged to do more than their neighbors, make
them very willing to part with power in favor of the
Federal Government. This last opinion and an idea
added to it, that they have no credit for their past
exertions, has put them out of humor and indisposed
many of them for future exertions. I have heard
several assert that in the present situation of this
State, nothing more ought to be expected than that
it maintain its own government and keep up its
quota of troops.

Private Correspondence 277

This sentiment, however, is as yet confined to
few, but it is too palpable not to make proselytes.

The rulers of this State are attached to the alli-
ance, as are Whigs generally. They have also great
confidence in you personally, but pretty general ex-
ception has been taken to a certain letter of yours
written, I believe, in the winter or spring. The idea
imbibed is that it contains a reflection upon them
for their past exertions. I have on every account
combated this impression, which could not fail to
have an ill effect, and I mention it to you with free-
dom, because it is essential you should know the
temper of the States respecting yourself.

As to the people, in the early periods of the war,
near one half of them were avowedly more attached
to Great Britain than to their liberty, but the energy
of the government has subdued all opposition. The
State by different means has been purged of a large
part of its malcontents; but there still remains, I
dare say, a third, whose secret wishes are on the side
of the enemy; the remainder sigh for peace, mur-
mur at taxes, clamor at their rulers, change one in-
capable man for another more incapable, and, I fear,
if left to themselves, would, too many of them, be
willing to purchase peace at any price — not from in-
clination to Great Britain or disaffection to inde-
pendence, but from mere supineness and avarice.

t The speculation of evils from the claims of Great
Britain gives way to the pressure of inconveniences
actually felt, and we required the event which has
lately happened — the recognition of our independ-

f See page 280.

?r-6/

278 Alexander Hamilton

ence by the Dutch — to give a new spring to the
public hopes and the public passions. This has had
a good effect, and if the Legislature can be brought
to adopt a wise plan for its finances, we may put the
people in better humor, and give a more regiilar and
durable movement to the machine. The people of
this State, as far as my observation goes, have as
much firmness in their make and as much submission
to government as those of any part of the Union. It
remains for me to give you an explicit opinion of
what is practicable for this State to do.

Even with a judicious plan of taxation I do not
think the State can afford, or the people will bear, to
pay more than ;£7o,ooo or ;£8o,ooo a year. In its
entire and flourishing state, according to my mode
of calculation it could not have exceeded ;£23o,ooo
or ;£24o,ooo; and reduced as it is, with the wheels of
circulation so exceedingly clogged for want of com-
merce and a sufficient medium, more than I have
said cannot be expected. Past experience will not
authorize a more flattering conclusion. Out of this
is to be deducted the expense of the interior adminis-
tration and the money necessaries for the levies of
men. The first amounts to about ;£i 5,000, as you
will perceive by the inclosed slate; but I suppose
the Legislature would choose to retain ;£2o,ooo. The
money hitherto yearly expended in recruits has
amoimted to between ;£2o,ooo and ;£3o,ooo; but on
a proper plan ;gio,ooo might suffice. There would
then remain ;£4o,ooo for your department.

But this is on a supposition of a change of system;
for with the present I doubt there being paid into

Private Correspondence 279

the Continental treasury one third of that sum. I
am endeavoring to collect materials for greater cer-
tainty upon this subject. But the business of sup-
plies has been so diversified, lodged in such a variety
of independent hands, and so carelessly transacted,
that it is hardly possible to get any tolerable idea of
the gross and net product.

With the help of these materials I shall strive
to convince the committee, when they meet, that
a change of measures is essential; if they enter cor-
dially into right views, we may succeed; but I con-
fess I fear more than I hope.

I have taken every step in my power to procure
the information you have desired in your letter of
July 1 8th. The most material part of it, an ac-
count of the supplies furnished since March, '80, has
been committed to Col. Hay. I have written to him
in pressing terms to accelerate the preparation.

You will perceive, sir, I have neither flattered the
State nor encouraged high expectations. I thought
it my duty to exhibit things as they are, not as they
ought to be. I shall be sorry to give you an ill opin-
ion of the State for want of equal candor in the
representations of others; for, however disagreeable
the reflection, I have too much reason to believe that
the true picture of other States would be, in pro-
portion to their circumstances, equally unpromising.
All my inquiries and all that appears induce this
opinion. I intend this letter in confidence to your-
self, and therefore I endorse it private.

Before I conclude I will say a word on a point that
possibly you could wish to be informed about. The

28o Alexander Hamilton

contract up this way is executed generally to the
satisfaction of the officers and soldiers, which is
more meritorious in the contractor, as in all prob-
ability it will be to him a losing undertaking. '

TO JOHN LAURENS *

August 15, 1782.

I received with great pleasure, my dear Laurens,

the letter which you wrote me in last. Your

wishes in one respect are gratified. This State has
pretty unanimously elected me to Congress. My
time of service commences in November. It is not
probable it will result in what you mention. I hope
it is too late. We have great reason to flatter our-
selves. Peace on our own terms is upon the carpet.
The making it is in good hands. It is said your
father is exchanged for Comwallis, and gone to Paris
to meet the other commissioners, and that Gran-
ville, on the part of England, has made a second trip
there; in the last instance, vested with plenipoten-
tiary powers.

I fear there may be obstacles, but I hope they may
be surmounted.

Peace made, my dear friend, a new scene opens.
The object then will be to make our independence a
blessing. To do this we must secure our Union on

1 This long and interesting letter is now first printed entire from the
Hamilton papers in the State Department. A small portion beginning
at the sentence, "The speculation of evils," marked thus f, [page 277]
and continuing to the end, has been printed in the edition of 1850, vol.
i., 295.

2 In those days of slow mails, this letter probably never reached
Laurens, who fell near the Combahee in a skirmish Aug. 27th

Private Correspondence 281

solid foundations — a herculean task, — and to effect
which, mountains of prejudice must be levelled ! It
requires all the virtue and all the abilities of the
country. Quit your sword, my friend; put on the
toga. Come to Congress. We know each other's
sentiments; our views are the same. We have
fought side by side to make America free; let us
hand in hand struggle to make her happy. Re-
member me to General Greene with all the warmth
of sincere attachment. Yours forever.'

TO GOVERNOR CLINTON

Albany, August 25, 1782.

Sir:

By advices from Philadelphia, I find that the
present is a period rather critical on the subject of
money, and concentres a variety of demands which
it is not easy to satisfy.

It becomes, therefore, of importance to the Fi-
nancier to avail himself of every immediate resource.

This induces me to request you will be so good as
to inform me whether there is any near prospect of
obtaining the loan directed to be applied to Con-
tinental use; also, whether any measures can be
taken to accelerate the collection of the late tax im-
posed for the same use.

I would willingly write to the county treasurers
myself, but, unauthorized as I am, I could expect no
good effect from it.^

^ Reprinted from the History of the Republic, ii., 300.
2 Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

282 Alexander Hamilton

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, August 25, 1782.

Sir:

This letter serves only to transmit the two last
papers. I wish the measures I have taken to satisfy
you on the points you desire to be informed of had
been attended to with so much success as to enable
me now to transmit the result. But I find a sin-
gular confusion in the accounts kept by the public
officers from whom I must necessarily derive my in-
formation, and a singular dilatoriness in complying
with my application, partly from indolence and
partly from jealousy of the office. I hope, by the
next post, to transmit you information on some
particulars.

TO COLONEL RICHARD K. MEADE

Albany, August 27, 1782.

I thank you, my dear Meade, for your letter of the
first of this month, which you will perceive has
travelled much faster than has been usual with our
letters. Our correspondence hitherto has been un-
fortunate; nor, in fact, can either of us compliment
himself on his punctuality, but you were right in
concluding that, however indolence or accident may
interrupt our intercourse, nothing will interrupt our
friendship. Mine for you is built on a solid basis of
a full conviction that you deserve it, and that it is
reciprocal; and it is the more firmly fixed because
you have few competitors. Experience is a con-
tinual comment on the worthlessness of the human

Private Correspondence 283

race ; and the few exceptions we find have the greater
right to be valued in proportion as they are rare. I
know few men estimable, fewer amiable; and when
I meet with one of the last description, it is not in
my power to withhold my affection.

[You reproach me with not having said enough
about our little stranger. When I wrote last I was
not sufficiently acquainted with him to give you his
character. I may now assure you that your daugh-
ter, when she sees him, will not consult you about
the choice, or will only do it in respect to the rules
of decorum. He is truly a very fine young gentle-
man, the most agreeable in his conversation and
manners of any I ever knew, nor less remarkable for
his intelligence and sweetness of temper. You are
not to imagine, by my beginning with his mental
qualifications, that he is defective in personal. It
is agreed on all hands that he is handsome; his
features are good, his eye is not only sprightly and
expressive, but full of benignity. His attitude in
sitting, is, by connoisseurs, esteemed graceful, and he
has a method of waving his hand that announces the
future orator. He stands, however, rather awk-
wardly, and as his legs have not all the delicate
sHmness of his father's, it is feared he may never
excel as much in dancing, which is probably the only
accomplishment in which he will not be a model.
If he has any fault in manners, he laughs too much.
He has now passed his seventh month. I am glad
to find your prospect of being settled approaches.
I am sure you will realize all the happiness you
promise yourself with your amiable partner. I wish

284 Alexander Hamilton

fortune had not cast our lots at such a distance.
Mrs. Meade, you, Betsey, and myself would make
a most affectionate and most happy partie quarre.]

As to myself, I shall sit down in New York when
it opens; and this period, we are told, approaches.
No man looks forward to a peace with more pleasure
than I do; though no man would sacrifice less to it
than myself if I were not convinced that the people
sigh for peace.

I have been studying the law for some months,
and have lately been licensed as an attorney. I wish
to prepare myself by October for examination as a
counsellor; but some public avocation may possibly
prevent me.

I had almost forgotten to tell you that I have been
pretty unanimously elected, by the Legislature of
this State, a member of Congress, to begin to serve
in November. I do not hope to reform the State,
although I shall endeavor to do all the good I can.

[Suffer Betsey and me to present our love to Mrs.
Meade. She has a sisterly affection for you. My
respects, if you please, to Mr. and Mrs. Fitzhugh.
God bless you.] '

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, August 31, 1782.

Sir:

I send you herewith all the acts of the Legislature
of this State since the government has been organ-

* This letter was partly printed in the edition of 1850. It is now
completed from the History of the Republic ^ ii., 305. The added
portions are inclosed in brackets.

Private Correspondence 285

ized; on the margin of which I have numbered all
the acts relative to the matters you mention in your
letter of July, '81, to the States agreeable to the
within list. I inclose you the papers of the last
week.

The indolence of some and the repugnancy of
others make every trifle lag so much in the execu-
tion, that I am not able at this time to give you any
further information. I wish to hear from you on
the subject of my former letters previous to the
meeting of the committee — the 15th of the ensuing
month.

TO THE COUNTY TREASURERS

Albany, Sept. 7, 1782.

Sir:

The fifteenth of this month is the period fixed for
the payment of the tax imposed at the last meeting
of the Legislature for the use of the United States.
The public exigencies and the reputation of the
State require that every exertion should be made to
collect this tax with punctuality and dispatch; and
it is therefore my duty to urge you that you employ
the powers vested in you, and all your personal in-
fluence, to induce the collectors to expedite the col-
lection with all the zeal and vigor in their power.
While the other States are all doing something, as a
citizen of this, I shall feel a sensible mortification in
being obliged to continue publishing to the others,
that this State pays nothing in support of the war,
as I have been under the necessity of doing the last

286 Alexander Hamilton

two months. Besides this, and other still more
weighty considerations, a regard to the subjects of
the State itself demands every exertion in our power.
They have parted with their property on the public
faith, and it is impossible for the public to fulfil its
engagements to individuals, unless it is enabled to
do it by the equal and just contributions of the
commimity at large.

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, Sept. 7, 1782.

Sir:

I have had the inclosed ready for some time ; but
in hopes of receiving the returns of the certificates
mentioned in memorandum B, I delayed sending the
present sketch. Having even received no answers
from some of the parties who live at a distance from
me, I suspect they have done their business in so
disorderly a manner (to say nothing worse of it)
that they are at a loss how to render the accounts;
and I have therefore concluded not to detain any
longer what I have procured.

I do not take the step mentioned in memorandum
A, because I doubted its propriety. It might raise
expectations about the old money, which, possibly,
it may not enter into your plans to raise; and, be-
sides this, by knowing what has been called in, in
each State (which, from the sketch I send you, will
appear as to this), you can determine the balance of
omissions remaining out, except what may have
worn out and been accidentally destroyed. If you

Private Correspondence 287

desire this step to be taken, I will obey your com-
mands.

I have said nothing of the rates of depreciation,
because I imagine your letter, written in July, '81,
had reference to the rates at which the money was
then actually circulating, and the circulation has
now totally ceased. The laws I sent you by the last
post will inform you of the rates fixed at different
periods by the Legislature: forty, seventy-five, and,
lastly, one hundred and twenty-eight. I am obliged
to infer there is a studied backwardness in the officers
of the State, who ought to give me the information
you require respecting the supplies of different kinds
which have been furnished to the use of the United
States. Indeed, I find on inquiry, that their joint
information will not be so full as to satisfy your in-
tentions ; and that this cannot be done till you have
appointed a commissioner of accounts, authorized to
enter into all the details, aided by some legislat-
ive arrangement which may be obtained the next
session.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING '

Albany, Sept. 7, 1782.

Dear Sir:

I this day received your letter of the 20th August.
Mr. Morris has advised me of the bills you describe,
and directed my purchasing them, together with his
notes, and the bank notes, with what money shall
come into my hands on public account. They are

I The well-known Massachusetts soldier and statesman; at this time
quarter-master-general .

288 Alexander Hamilton

now beginning to collect the tax imposed for the use
of the United States, though I can as yet form no
judgment with what success or expedition. I shall
with pleasure give you the information you ask, but
I would rather wish to be excused from anticipation
by previous deposits in my hands, as that will, in
some measure, pledge me to give a preference to the
bills deposited, and may hereafter expose me to a
charge of partiality. There have been several appli-
cations to me for a similar anticipation, which I
have avoided, reserving to myself the power of pay-
ing the bills as they shall be presented, and in pro-
portion to the nearness or remoteness of the periods
of payments.

You may, however, depend that I shall be happy
to assist your department, and will keep in view
your present request. I hope towards the latter end
of the month I shall receive something considerable
on the late tax.

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, Sept. 14, 1782.

Sir:

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of
your letter of the 29th of August, the contents of
which shall be executed.

I have just received by the post accounts of the
specific supplies furnished by the State, copies of
which I shall prepare to be transmitted to you by
the next post, as I am to return the originals, which
are for the inspection of the Legislature. I hope to
add to these accoimts of the moneys supplied.

Private Correspondence 289

I have v^ritten to you a number of letters since
my journey to Poughkeepsie, of which, as they con-
tain some things of a confidential nature, I am not
without anxiety to learn the safe arrival.

I should also have been happy to have received
your instructions against the meeting of the com-
mittee, which is to take place to-morrow. As they
will have other business, if I hear from you by the
next post, I shall not be too late. I am at a loss to
know whether I ought to press the establishment of
permanent funds or not; though, unless I receive
your instructions, following my own apprehensions
of what are probably your views, I shall dwell on
this article.

I inclose you a copy of the letter of the Governor,
of the 2d inst., from which you will see his hopes.
Mine are not so good. In this vicinity, always de-
linquent, little is doing.

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, Sept. 21, 1782.

Sir:

The hurry in which I wrote to you by the last
post prevented my examining particularly the papers
which I informed you I had received. On a more
careful inspection of them I found them not so com-
plete as I had hoped. There is a general statement of
specific supplies; but the returns referred to in that
for the particulars were by some mistake omitted.
I have written for them, but they have not yet

VOL. IX.— 19,

290 Alexander Hamilton

arrived ; when they do I shall lose no time in forward-
ing them.

I observe there is nothing respecting transporta-
tion, and there is a part of the supplies for the period
before Colonel Hay came into office which is esti-
mated on a scale of proportion — too vague a method
to be satisfactory. I have urged him to send me an
account of the transportation, and to collect, as
speedily as possible, official returns of the supplies
above mentioned.

There is a practice obtaining, which appears to me
to contravene your views. The contractors, I am
informed, have gotten into a method of carrying
your bills immediately to the collectors and drawing
the specie out of their hands, by which means the
paper never goes into circulation at all, but passes,
so to speak, immediately out of one hand of the
public into the other. The people, therefore, can
never be familiarized to the paper, nor can it ever
obtain a general ciirrency.

If the specie were to come in to the receivers, and
the contractors were left under a necessity of exert-
ing their influence to induce the inhabitants to take
your notes, to be afterwards redeemed by the re-
ceivers agreeably to your plan, this would gradually
accustom the people to place confidence in the
notes, and though the circulation at first should be
momentary, it might come to be more permanent.

I am in doubt whether, on the mere speculation of
an evil, without your instructions, I ought to take
any step to prevent this practice. For, should I
forbid the exchange, it might possibly cause a sus-

Private Correspondence 291

picion that there was a preference of the paper to
the specie, which might injure its credit.

I have thought of a method to prevent, without
forbidding it in direct terms. This was to require
each collector to return the names of the persons
from whom he received taxes, and in different col-
umns specify the kind of money, whether specie,
your notes, or bank notes, in which the tax was paid,
giving the inhabitants receipts accordingly, and pay-
ing in the money in the same species in which it was
received. This would cover the object.

I have tried to prevail upon the county treasurer
of this place to instruct the collectors accordingly;
but the great aim of all these people is to avoid
trouble, and he affected to consider the matter as a
Herculean labor. Nor will it be done without a
legislative injunction.

A method of this kind would tend much to check
fraud in the collectors, and would have many good
consequences.

I thought it my duty, at any rate, to apprise you
of the practice, that, if my apprehensions are right,
it may not be continued without control. I have
reason to believe it is very extensive — by no means
confined to this State.

Permit me to make one more observation. Your
notes, though in credit with the merchants by way
of remittance, do not enter far into ordinary circula-
tion, and this principally on account of their size;
which even makes them inconvenient for paying
taxes. The taxes of very few amount to twenty
dollars a single tax; and though the farmers might

292 Alexander Hamilton

combine to sell their produce for the notes, to pay
the taxes jointly; yet this is not always convenient,
and will seldom be practised. If the notes were, in
considerable part, of five eight, or ten dollars, their
circulation would be far more general; the mer-
chants would, even in their retail operations, give
specie in exchange for balances, which few of them
care to do, or can do, with the larger notes; though
they are willing to take them for their goods.

TO ROBERT MORRIS

September 28, 1782.

Sir:

I have been honored this week with your letters
of the 28th August, 6th, 12th, and 17th instant,
with their inclosures.

It gives me the most real pleasure to find that my
past commimications have met with your appro-
bation; and I feel a particular satisfaction in the
friendly confidence which your letters manifest.

I am persuaded that substantial reasons have de-
termined your choice in a particular instance to
Doctor Tillotson; and I am flattered by the atten-
tion you have obligingly paid to my recommenda-
tions of Col. Malcolm and Mr. Lawrence. Those
gentlemen are now here. They make you the warm-
est acknowledgments for your offer, but decline leav-
ing the State ; which, indeed, is not compatible with
the present prospects of either of them.

I am glad to have had an opportunity of perusing
your letter to this State, at which so much excep-

Private Correspondence 293

tion has been taken ; because it has confirmed me in
what I presumed, that there has been much unjust-
ifiable ill-humor upon the occasion. I will make
use of the knowledge I have to combat misrepre-
sentation.

Yours of the 29th of July, to Congress, is full of
principles and arguments as luminous as they are
conclusive. 'T is to be lamented that they have not
had more weight than we are to infer from the mo-
mentary expedient adopted by the resolutions of
the 4th and loth; which will, alone, not be satisfac-
tory to the public creditors; and I fear will only
tend to embarrass your present operations, without
answering the end in view. The more I see, the
more I find reason for those who love this country
to weep over its blindness.

The committee on the subject of taxation are met.
Some have their plans, and they must protect their
own children, however misshapen ; others have none,
but are determined to find fault with all. I expect
little, but I shall promote any thing, though imper-
fect, that will mend our situation.

The public creditors in this quarter have had a
meeting, and appointed a committee to devise meas-
ures. The committee will report petitions to Con-
gress, the Legislature, and an address to the public
creditors in other parts of the State to appoint per-
sons to meet in convention, to unite in some common
measure. I believe they will also propose a general
convention of all the creditors in the different States.

294 Alexander Hamilton

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, October 5, 1782.

Sir:

In my last I informed you that the committee ap-
pointed by the Legislature on the subject of taxation
were together. In spite of my efforts, they have
parted without doing any thing decisive. They
have, indeed, agreed upon several matters, and
those of importance, but they have not reduced
them to the form of a report, which, in fact, leaves
every thing afloat, to be governed by the impres-
sions of the moment when the Legislature meets.

The points agreed upon are these: That there
shall be an actual valuation of land, and a tax of so
much in the pound, — the great diversity in the quali-
ties of land would not suffer them to listen to an
estimated valuation, or to a tax by the quantity,
agreeably to the idea in your late report to Congress :
that there shall be also a tariff of all personal prop-
erty, to be also taxed at so much in the pound ; that
there shall be a specific tax on carriages, clocks,
watches, and other similar articles of luxury; that
money at usury shall be taxed at a fixed rate in the
pound, excluding that which is loaned to the public ;
that houses in all towns shall be taxed at a certain
proportion of the annual rent; that there shall be a
poll-tax on all single men from fifteen upwards ; and
that the collection of the taxes should be advertised
to the lowest bidder, at a fixed rate per cent., bear-
ing all subordinate expenses.

Among other things which were rejected, I pressed
hard for an excise on distilled liquors, but all that

Private Correspondence 295

could be carried on this article was a license on
taverns.

The committee were pretty generally of opinion
that the system of funding for payment of old debts
and for procuring further credit, was wise and in-
dispensable, but a majority thought it would be
unwise in one State to contribute in this way alone.

Nothing was decided on the quantum of taxes
which the State was able to pay; those who went
furthest did not exceed seventy thousand pounds, of
which fifty for the use of the United States.

I send you my cash account, which is for what has
been received in this county. We have not heard
from the others.

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, October 9, 1782.

Sir:

I wrote you a hasty letter by the last post, which
arrived late, and set out very soon after its arrival.

Since that I have received two thousand dollars,
all in your bills on Mr. Swanwick, in favor of Messrs.
Sands & Co. One half the sum is in bills payable
in February next, exchanged by them for specie with
one of the county treasurers. I am sensible there is
an inconvenience in this in different ways, but it
appears by your letter of the 19th of July that you
mean to have those bills received upon the same
footing with your and the bank notes, without re-
gard to the time they have to run. I have, however,
induced the treasurer to write in a manner that I
hope will discourage like exchanges in future without

296 Alexander Hamilton

giving any unfavorable impression. Besides the
inconvenience from this practice, which I mentioned
in a former letter, there is another which I am per-
suaded will result.

People will get into a way of discounting your
bills and notes with the treasurers and collectors, to
the injury of their credit.

Probably you are apprised of a fact which, how-
ever, I think it my duty to mention: It is that the
bank notes pass pretty currently as cash, with a
manifest preference to your notes.

I have not yet received the other papers relative
to the account of supplies I have sent you.

I hope to be able to inclose you a copy of the
address of the public creditors in this town to the
rest of that denomination in this State. It incul-
cates the ideas which ought to prevail.

1 have not yet heard of your messenger, Mr. Brown.
I presume his circuit is regiilated by your occasional
direction.'

TO DE NOAILLES '

1782.

Esteem for your talents and acquirements is a
sentiment which, from my earliest acquaintance

'Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

2 Louis Marie, Vicomte de Noailles, one of the most brilliant of the
French ofiicers in our Revolution. After his return to France he took
an active part on the popular side in the Revolution, but fled in 1792,
being then with the army, and took refuge in England and afterwards
in the United States. His wife was guillotined in 1794. After the
reign of terror was over he returned to France, had his name erased
from the list of emigres and took service again in the army. In 1803
he was sent to St. Domingo, and on his way thence to Cuba he was
killed in an action with an English corvette.

Private Correspondence 297

with you, my dear Viscount, I have shared in com-
mon with all those who have the happiness of know-
ing you; but a better knowledge of your character
has given it, in my eyes, a more intrinsic merit, and
has attached me to you by a friendship founded upon
qualities as rare as they are estimable. Averse as I
am to professions, I cannot forbear indulging this
declaration, to express to you the pleasure I felt at
receiving (after an inexplicable delay) the letter you
were so obliging as to write me before your depart-
ure from Boston. It was of that kind which is al-
ways produced by those attentions of friends we
value: which, not being invited by circumstances,
nor necessitated by the forms of society, bespeak the
warmth of the heart. At least my partiality for
you makes me fond of viewing it in this light, and I
cherish the opinion.

I was chagrined to find that you left us with an
intention not to return. Though I should be happy
if, by a removal of the war, this country should cease
to be a proper theatre for your exertions, yet, if it
continues to be so, I hope you will find sufficient
motives to engage you to change your resolution.
Wherever you are you will be useful and distin-
guished; but the ardent desire I have of meeting
you again makes me wish America may be your
destination. I would willingly do it in France, as
you invite me to do, but the prospect of this is re-
mote. I must make a more solid establishment here
before I can conveniently go abroad. There is no
country I have a greater curiosity to see, or which I
am persuaded would be so interesting to me as yours.

298 Alexander Hamilton

I should be happy to renew and improve the valu-
able acquaintances from thence, which this war has
given me an opportunity of making; and, though I
could not flatter myself with deriving any advantage
from it, I am persuaded it is there I should meet with
the greatest number of those you describe, who, etc.,
— but considerations of primary importance will
oblige me to submit to the mortification of deferring
my visit.

In the meantime I should be too much the gainer
by communication with you, not gladly to embrace
the offer you so politely make for writing to each
other.

The period, since you left us, has been too barren
of events to enable me to impart any thing worth
attention. The enemy continue in possession of
Charleston and Savannah, and leave us masters of
the rest of the country. General Greene has detached
Wayne to Georgia ; but I believe his views do not ex-
tend beyond the mere possession of the country. It
is said the Assemblies of the two invaded States
are about meeting, to restore the administration
of government. This will be a step to strengthen-
ing the hands of General Greene, and counteracting
the future intrigues of the enemy. Many are san-
guine in believing that all the southern posts will be
evacuated, and that a fleet of transports is actually
gone to bring the garrisons away. For my part, I
have doubts upon the subject. My politics are, that
while the present ministry can maintain their seats
and procure supplies, they will prosecute the war on
the mere chance of events; and that while this is

Private Correspondence 299

the plan, they will not evacuate posts so essential as
points of departure ; from whence, on any favorable
turn of affairs, to renew their attack on our most
vulnerable side. Nor will they relinquish objects
that would be so useful to them, should the worst
happen in a final negotiation. Clinton, it is said, is
cutting a canal across New York Island, through the
low grounds, about a mile and a half from the city.
This will be an additional obstacle; but if we have,
otherwise, the necessary means to operate, it will
not be an insurmountable one. I do not hear that
he is constructing any other new works of conse-
quence. To you, who are so thoroughly acquainted
with the military posture of things in this country,
I need not say that the activity of the next cam-
paign must absolutely depend on effectual succors
from France. I am convinced we shall have a
powerful advocate in you. La Fayette, we know,
will bring '' the whole house" with him if he can.

There has been no material change in our internal
situation since you left us. The capital successes
we have had have served rather to increase the hopes
than the exertions of the particular States. But in
one respect we are in a mending way. Our financier
has hitherto conducted himself with great ability,
has acquired an entire personal confidence, revived
in some measure the public credit, and is conciliating
fast the support of the moneyed men. His opera-
tions have hitherto hinged chiefly on the seasonable
aids from your country; but he is urging the es-
tabHshment of permanent funds among ourselves;
and though, from the nature and temper of our

300 Alexander Hamilton

governments, his applications will meet with a dil-
atory compliance, it is to be hoped they will by de-
grees succeed.

The institution of a bank has been very service-
able to him; the commercial interest, finding great
advantages in it, and anticipating much greater, is
disposed to promote the plan; and nothing but
moderate funds, permanently pledged for the secur-
ity of lenders, is wanting to make it an engine of the
most extensive and solid utility. By the last ad-
vices there is reason to believe the delinquent States
will shortly comply with the requisition of Congress
for a duty on our imports. This will be a great
resource to Mr. Morris; but it will not alone be
stifficient.

Upon the whole, however, if the war continues
another year, it will be necessary that Congress
should again recur to the generosity of France for
pecuniary assistance. The plans of the financier
cannot be so matured as to enable us by any possi-
bility to dispense with this ; and if he should fail for
want of support, we must replunge into that con-
fusion and distress which had liked to have proved
fatal to us, and out of which we are slowly emerging.
The cure, on a relapse, would be infinitely more
difficult than ever.

I have given you an uninteresting but a faithful
sketch of our situation. You may expect, from
time to time, to receive from me the progress of our
affairs; and I know you will overpay me.

Private Correspondence 301

TO GENERAL GREENE

Albany, October 12, 1782.

Dear General:

It is an age since I have either written to you or
received a line from you ; yet I persuade myself you
have not been the less convinced of my affectionate
attachment and warm participation in all those
events which have given you that place in your
country's esteem and approbation which I have
known you to deserve, while your enemies and rivals
were most active in sullying your reputation.

You will perhaps learn before this reaches you
that I have been appointed a member of Congress.
I expect to go to Philadelphia in the ensuing month,
where I shall be happy to correspond with you with
our ancient confidence; and I shall entreat you not
to confine your observations to military subjects,
but to take in the whole scope of national concerns.
I am sure your ideas will be useful to me and to the
public.

I feel the deepest affliction at the news we have
just received of the loss of our dear and estimable
friend Laurens. His career of virtue is at an end.
How strangely are human affairs conducted, that so
many excellent qualities could not insure a more
happy fate! The world will feel the loss of a man
who has left few like him behind, and America of a
citizen whose heart realized that patriotism of which
others only talk. I shall feel the loss of a friend I
truly and most tenderly loved, and one of a very
small number.

He 4c 3f: 9ie 9is ^

302 Alexander Hamilton

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Albany, October 26, 1782.

Sir:

I am honored with your letters of the 5th, 15th,
and 1 6th instant.

The detail you have been pleased to enter into
in that of the 5 th exhibits very cogent reasons for
confining yourself to pretty large denominations of
notes. Some of them had occurred to me, others
had not; but I thought it my duty to state to you
the operation which that circumstance had, as in the
midst of the variety and extent of the objects which
occupy your attention, you may not have so good
opportunities of seeing the effect of your plans in
detail. While I acknowledge that your observa-
tions have corrected my ideas upon the subject,
and shown me that there would be danger in gener-
ally lessening the denominations of the paper issued,
I should be uncandid not to add that it still appears
to me there would be a preponderance of advan-
tages in having a part of a smaller amount. I shall
not trouble you at present with any further reasons
for this opinion.

I have immediately on receipt of your letter taken
measures for the publication of your advertisement
in the newspapers of this State.

You will perceive by the enclosed cash account
that, since my last, I have received five and twenty
hundred dollars. This was procured in part of the
loan I mentioned to you. It was chiefly paid to me
in specie, and I have exchanged it with Col. Picker-
ing and Mr. Duer for the notes ; the latter had twelve

Private Correspondence 303

hundred dollars. Taxes collect slowly, but I must
shortly receive two or three hundred pounds more,
of which Mr. Duer will have the principal benefit, as
it appears by your letter to him, that you hoped he
might receive three thousand dollars from me.

As I may shortly set out for Philadelphia, I wish
to surrender to Mr. Tillotson, as soon as you think
proper, the office in which he is to succeed.

TO LAFAYETTE

Albany, Nov. 3, 1782.

Since we parted, my dear Marquis, at Yorktown,
I have received three letters from you; one written
on your way to Boston, two from France. I ac-
knowledge that I have written to you only once, but
the reason has been that I have been taught daily to
expect your return. This I should not have done
from my own calculations, for I saw no prospect but
of an inactive campaign; and you had much better
be intriguing for your hobby-horse at Paris than
loitering away your time here. Yet they seem to be
convinced at headquarters that you were certainly
coming out; and by your letter it appears to have
been your own expectation. I imagine you have
relinquished it by this time.

I have been employed for the last ten months in
rocking the cradle and studying the art of fleecing
my neighbors. I am now a grave counsellor-at-law,
and shall soon be a grave member of Congress. The
Legislature, at their last session, took it into their

304 Alexander Hamilton

heads to name me, pretty unanimously, one of their
delegates.

I am going to throw away a few months more in
public life, and then retire a simple citizen and good
pater familias. I set out for Philadelphia in a few
days. You see the disposition I am in. You are
condemned to run the race of ambition all your life.
I am already tired of the career, and dare to leave it.

But you would not give a pin for my letter unless
politics or war made a part of it. You tell me they
are employed in building a peace, and other accounts
say it is nearly finished. I hope the work may meet
with no interruptions. It is necessary for America,
especially if your army is taken from us, as we are
told will soon be the case. That was an essential
point d'appui, though money was the primum mobile
of our finances, which must now lose the little ac-
tivity lately given them. Our trade is prodigiously
cramped. These States are in no humor for con-
tinuing exertions ; if the war lasts it must be carried
on by external succors. I make no apology for the
inertness of this country. I detest it, but since it
exists I am sorry to see other resources diminish.
Your ministers ought to know best what they are
doing, but if the war goes on and the removal of the
army does not prove an unwise measure, I renounce all
future pretensions to judgment. I think, however,
the circumstances of the enemy oblige them to peace.

We have been hoping that they would abandon
their posts in these States. It no doubt was once in
contemplation, but later appearances are rather am-
biguous. I begin to suspect that if peace is not

Private Correspondence 305

made, New York and Charleston — the former at
least — will still be held.

There is no probability that I shall be one of the
Commissioners of Peace. It is a thing I do not de-
sire myself, and which I imagine other people will
not desire.

Our army is now in excellent order, but small.

The temper we are in respecting the alliance, you
will see from public acts. There never was a time
of greater unanimity on that point.

I wish I durst enter into a greater detail with you,
but our cipher is not fit for it, and I fear to trust it in
another shape.

Is there any thing you wish on this side the water?
You know the warmth and sincerity of my attach-
ment. Command me.

I have not been so happy as to see Mr. De Segur.
The title of your friend would have been a title to
every thing in my power to manifest. Adieu.

General and Mrs. Schuyler and Mrs. Hamilton all
join warmly in the most affectionate remembrances
to you.

As to myself, I am in truth.

Yours pour la vie.

I wrote a long letter to the Viscount De Noailles,
whom I also love. Has he received it? Is the
worthy Gouvion well? Has he succeeded? How is
it with our friend Gimat? How is it with General
Du Portail? All those men are men of merit, and
interest my best wishes.

Poor Laurens! He has fallen a sacrifice to his

VOL. IX.— 20.

3o6 Alexander Hamilton

ardor in a trifling skirmish in South Carolina. You
know how truly I loved him, and will judge how
much I regret him.

I will write you again soon after my arrival at
Philadelphia.

TO THE GOVERNOR OF RHODE ISLAND '

Philadelphia, Dec. ii, 1782.

Sir:

Congress are equally affected and alarmed by the
information they have received that the Legislature
of your State, at their last meeting, have refused
their concurrence in establishing a duty on imports.
They consider this measure as so indispensable to the
prosecution of the war, that a sense of duty and re-
gard to the common safety compel them to renew
their efforts to engage a compliance with it. And
in this view they have determined to send a deputa-
tion of three members to your State, as expressed in
the inclosed resolution. The gentleman they have
appointed will be able to lay before you a full and
just representation of public affairs, from which,
they flatter themselves, will result a conviction of
the propriety of their solicitude upon the present
occasion. Convinced by past experience of the zeal
and patriotism of the State of Rhode Island, they
cannot doubt that it will yield to those urgent con-
siderations which flow from a knowledge of our true
situation.

They will only briefly observe that the increasing
discontents of the army, the loud clamors of the pub-

^ At this time William Greene.

Private Correspondence 307

lie creditors, and the extreme disproportion between
the public supplies and the demands of the public
service, are so many invincible arguments for the
fund recommended by Congress. They feel them-
selves unable to devise any other that will be more
efficacious, less exceptionable, or more generally
agreeable; and if this is refused, they anticipate
calamities of the most menacing nature — with this
consolation, however, that they have faithfully dis-
charged their trust, and that the mischiefs which
follow cannot be attributed to them.

A principal object of the proposed fund is to pro-
cure loans abroad. If no security can be held out to
lenders, the success of these must necessarily be very
limited. The last accounts on the subject were not
flattering; and when intelligence shall arrive in Eu-
rope that the State of Rhode Island has disagreed
to the only fund which has yet been devised, there
is every reason to apprehend it will have a fatal in-
fluence upon their future progress.

Deprived of this resource, our affairs must in all
probability hasten to a dangerous crisis, and these
States be involved in greater embarrassments than
they have yet experienced, and from which it may
be much more difficult to emerge. Congress will
only add a request to your Excellency, that if the
Legislature should not be sitting, it may be called
together as speedily as possible, to enable the gen-
tlemen whom they have deputed to perform the pur-
pose of their mission.'

^ This letter was written by Hamilton as one of the committee of
Congress to whom the matter was referred.

3o8 Alexander Hamilton

TO GOVERNOR CLINTON

Philadelphia, Dec. i8, 1782.

Dear Sir:

I shall very shortly be out of cash, and shall be
much obliged to you to forward me the State allow-
ance. It will answer as well in Mr. Morris' notes as
specie, provided the notes have not more than a
fortnight or so to run. It will be better if they are
due. A disappointment in this will greatly em-
barrass me, and from what your Excellency said, I
take it for granted it cannot happen. Nothing new
except a probable account of the evacuation of
Charleston.*

TO GOVERNOR CLINTON

Philadelphia, Jan. 12, 1783.

Sir:

I am honored with your Excellency's letter of the
29th of December. I have received an order from
Colonel Hay on Mr. Sands, which I have no doubt
will shortly be paid. I have felt no inconvenience
from not having the money sooner.

Since my last to you we have received no further
accounts from Europe, so that we remain in the
same uncertainty with respect to the negotiations
for peace. Whether it will take place or not is a
problem of difficult solution. The duplicity and un-
steadiness for which Lord Shelburne is remarkable
will not justify any confidence in his intentions; and
the variety of interests to be conciliated in a treaty

' Reprinted from the History of the Republic, iii., 7.

Private Correspondence 309

of peace, with the best dispositions on all sides, must
render it a work of difficulty. I suspect too the
Spaniards and the Dutch will have large demands.

We have now here a deputation from the army,
and feel the mortification of a total disability to
comply with their just expectations. If, however,
the matter is taken up in a proper manner, I think
their application may be turned to a good account.
Every day proves more and more the insufficiency
of the Confederation. The proselytes to this opinion
are increasing fast, and many of the most sensible
men acknowledge the wisdom of the measure recom-
mended by your Legislature at their last sitting.
Various circumstances conspire at this time to in-
cline to the adoption of it, and I am not without
hope it may ere long take place. But I am far from
being sanguine.

We are deliberating on some mode for carrying
that article of the Confederation into execution,
which respects the valuation of lands, to ascertain
the quotas of the several States. None has yet
been proposed that appears to me eligible. I confess
I dislike the principle altogether; but we are tied
down by the Confederation.

The affairs of the Grants have been no further
touched since the resolutions transmitted to you. It
is a business in which nobody cares to act with de-
cision. As intimated before, I must doubt the per-
severance of Congress, if military coercion should
become necessary. I am clear the only chance the
Legislature have for a recovery of any part of the
revolted territory is by a compromise with New

3IO Alexander Hamilton

Hampshire, and this compromise must originate
between the States themselves. I hope the Legis-
lature will revise the late act for confirming the pos-
sessions of those who hold lands in that country. I
am certain there are doubts upon the subject, and it
were much to be wished such doubts did not exist.
The present dissatisfaction of the army is much op-
posed to any experiment of force in a service where
scruples of interest or prejudice may operate. '

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, February 7, 1783.

Sir:

Flattering myself that your knowledge of me will
induce you to receive the observations I make, as
dictated by a regard to the public good, I take the
liberty to suggest to you my ideas on some mat-
ters of delicacy and importance. I view the present
juncture as a very interesting one. I need not ob-
serve how far the temper and situation of the army
make it so. The state of our finances was perhaps
never more critical. I am under injunctions which
will not permit me to disclose some facts that would
at once demonstrate this position; but I think.it
probable you will be possessed of them through
another channel. It is, however, certain that there
has scarcely been a period of the Revolution which
called more for wisdom and decision in Congress.
Unfortunately for us, we are a body not governed
by reason or foresight, but by circumstances. It is

^ Now first printed from the Clinton papers at Albany.

Private Correspondence 311

probable we shall not take the proper measures;
and if we do not, a few months may open an em-
barrassing scene. This will be the case whether we
have peace or a continuance of the war.

If the war continues, it would seem that the army
must, in June, subsist itself, to defend the country.
If peace should take place, it will subsist itself, to
procure justice to itself. It appears to be a prevailing
opinion in the army that the disposition to recom-
pense their services will cease with the necessity for
them, and that, if they once lay down their arms,
they part with the means of obtaining justice. It is
to be lamented that appearances afford too much
ground for their distrust.

It becomes a serious inquiry: What is the true
line of policy? The claims of the army, urged with
moderation, but with firmness, may operate on those
weak minds which are influenced by their apprehen-
sions more than by their judgments, so as to produce
a concurrence in the measures which the exigencies
of affairs demand. They may add weight to the
applications of Congress to the several States. So
far a useful turn may be given to them. But the
difficulty will be to keep a complaining and suffering
army within the bounds of moderation.

This your Excellency's influence must effect. In
order to do it, it will be advisable not to discounten-
ance their endeavors to procure redress, but rather,
by the intervention of confidential and prudent per-
sons, to take the direction of them. This, however,
must not appear. It is of moment to the public
tranquillity, that your Excellency should preserve

312 Alexander Hamilton

the confidence of the army without losing that of
the people. This will enable you, in case of ex-
tremity, to guide the current, and to bring order,
perhaps even good, out of confusion. 'T is a part
that requires address ; but 't is one which your own
situation, as well as the welfare of the commtmity,
points out.

I will not conceal from your Excellency a truth
which it is necessary you should know. An idea is
propagated in the army that delicacy, carried to an
extreme, prevents your espousing its interests with
sufficient warmth. The falsehood of this opinion
no one can be better acquainted with than myself,
but it is not the less mischievous for being false. Its
tendency is to impair that influence which you may
exert with advantage, should any commotions un-
happily ensue, to moderate the pretensions of the
army, and make their conduct correspond with their
duty.

The great desideratum at present is the establish-
ment of general funds, which alone can do justice to
the creditors of the United States (of whom the army
forms the most meritorious class), restore public
credit, and supply the future wants of government.
This is the object of all men of sense. In this
the influence of the army, properly directed, may
co-operate.

The intimations I have thrown out will suffice to
give your Excellency a proper conception of my
sentiments. You will judge of their reasonableness
or fallacy, but I persuade myself you will do justice
to my motives. General Knox has the confidence of

Private Correspondence 313

the army, and is a man of sense. I think he may be
safely made use of. Situated as I am, your Ex-
cellency will feel the confidential nature of these
observations.

TO GOVERNOR CLINTON

February 24, 1783.

Sir:

In my letter of the 14th I informed your Excellency
that Congress were employed in devising a plan for
carrying the eighth article of the Confederation into
execution. This business is at length brought to a
conclusion. I enclose, for the information of the
Legislature, the proceedings upon it in different
stages, by which they will see the part I have acted.
But as I was ultimately left in a small minority, I
think it my duty to explain the motives upon which
my opposition to the general course of the House
was founded.

I am of opinion that the article of the Confedera-
tion itself was ill-judged. In the first place I do not
believe there is any general representative of the
wealth of a nation, the criterion of its ability to pay
taxes. There are only two that can be thought of —
land and numbers.

The revenues of the United Provinces (general
and particular) were computed, before the present
war, to more than half as much as those of Great
Britain. The extent of their territory is not one
fourth part as great, their population less than a
third. The comparison is still more striking be-
tween those provinces and the Swiss Cantons, in

314 Alexander Hamilton

both of which extent of territory and population are
nearly the same, and yet the revenues of the former
are five times as large as those of the latter; nor
could any efforts of taxation bring them to any
thing like a level. In both cases the advantages for
agriculture are superior in those countries which
afford least revenue in proportion. I have selected
these examples because they are most familiar, but
whoever will extend the comparison between the
different nations of the world will perceive that the
position I have laid down is supported by universal
experience.

The truth is, the ability of a coimtry to pay taxes
depends on infinite combinations of physical and
moral causes which can never be accommodated to
any general rule — climate, soil, productions, advan-
tages for navigation, government, genius of the
people, progress of arts and industry, and an endless
variety of circumstances. The diversities are suf-
ficiently great in these States to make an infinite
difference in their relative wealth, the proportion of
which can never be fotmd by any common measure
whatever.

The only possible way, then, of making them con-
tribute to the general expense in an equal proportion
to their means, is by general taxes imposed tmder
Continental authority.

In this mode there would no doubt be inequalities,
and, for a considerable time, material ones, but ex-
perience, and the constant operation of a general
interest, which, by the very collision of particular
interests, must, in the main, prevail in a Continental

Private Correspondence 3^5

deliberative, would at length correct those inequali-
ties, and balance one tax that should bear hard upon
one State by another that should have proportional
weight in others. This idea, however, was not, at
the period of framing the Confederation, and is not
yet, agreeable to the spirit of the time. To futurity
we must leave the discovery how far this spirit is
wise or foolish. One thing only is now certain:
that Congress having the discretionary power of
determining the quantum of money to be paid into
the general treasury towards defraying the common
expenses, have in effect the constitutional power of
general taxation.

The restraints upon the exercise of this power
amount to the perpetuating a rule for fixing the pro-
portions, which must of necessity produce inequality,
and by refusing the Federal Government a power
of specific taxation and of collection, without sub-
stituting any other adequate means of coercion, do,
in fact, leave the compliance with Constitutional
requisitions to the good- will of the respective States.
Inequality is inherent in the theory of the Confedera-
tion, and, in the practice, that inequality must in-
crease in proportion to the honesty or dishonesty of
the component parts. This vice will either, in its
consequences, reform the Federal Constitution or
dissolve it.

If a general standard must be fixed, numbers were
preferable to land. Modes might be devised to as-
certain the former with tolerable precision; but I
am persuaded the experiment will prove that the
value of all the land in each State cannot be

3i6 Alexander Hamilton

ascertained with any thing like exactness. Both
these meastires have the common disadvantage of
being no equal representative of the wealth of the
people, but one is much more simple, definite, and
certain than the other.

I have indulged myself in these remarks to show
that I have little expectation of success from any
mode of carrying the article in question into execu-
tion upon equitable principles. I owe it, however,
to myself to declare that my opposition did not
arise from this source. The Confederation has
pointed out this mode, and, though I would heartily
join in a representation of the difficulties (of which
every man of sense must be sensible on examina-
tion) that occur in the execution of the plan to in-
duce the States to consent to a change, yet, as this
was not the disposition of a majority of Congress, I
would have assented to any mode of attempting
it, which was not either obviously mischievous or
impracticable.

The first plan proposed, as your Excellency will
see, was an actual valuation of each State by itself.
This was evidently making the interested party judge
in his own cause. Those who have seen the opera-
tion of this principle between the counties in the
same State, and the districts in the same county,
cannot doubt a moment that the valuations on this
plan would have been altogether imequal and un-
just. Without supposing more liberality in one
State than in another, the degree of care, judgment,
and method employed in the execution would alone
make extreme differences in the results.

Private Correspondence 317

This mode has also the further inconvenience of
awakening all the jealousies of the several States
against each other. Each would suspect that its
neighbor had favored itself, whether the partiality
appeared or not. It would be impossible to silence
these distrusts and to make the States sit down
satisfied with the justice of each other. Every
new requisition for money would be a new signal
for discussion and clamor, and the seeds of dis-
union, already sown too thick, would be not a little
multiplied.

To guard against these evils the plan proposes a
revision by Congress; but it is easy to be seen that
such a power could not be exercised. Should any
States return defective valuations it would be diffi-
cult to find sufficient evidence to determine them
such. To alter would not be admissible, for Con-
gress could have no data which could be presumed
equivalent to those which must have governed the
judgment of commissioners imder oath, or an actual
view of the premises. To do either this or reject
would be an impeachment of the honor of the States,
which it is not probable there would be decision
enough to hazard, and which, if done, could not fail
to excite serious disgusts. There is a wide differ-
ence between a single State exercising such a power
over its own counties and a confederate government
exercising it over sovereign States which compose
the Confederacy. It might also happen that too
many States would be interested in the defective
valuations to leave a sufficient number willing either
to alter or to reject.

3i8 Alexander Hamilton

These considerations prevailed to prevent the
plan being adopted by the majority.

The last plan may be less mischievous than the
first, but it appears to me altogether ineffectual.
The mere quantity of lands granted and surveyed,
with the general species of buildings upon them, can
certainly be no criteria to determine their value.
The plan does not even distinguish the improved
from the unimproved land, the qualities of soil or
degrees of improvement; the qualities of the houses
and other buildings are entirely omitted. These, it
seems, are to be judged by the commissioners to be
appointed by each State. But I am unable to con-
ceive how any commissioner can form the least
estimate of these circumstances with respect even
to his own State, much less with respect to other
States, which would be necessary to establish a just
relative value. If even there was a distinction of
improved from unimproved land, by supposing an
intrinsic value in the land and adopting general
rates, something nearer the truth might be attained;
but it must now be all conjecture and uncertainty.

The numbers of inhabitants, distinguishing white
from black, are called for. This is not only totally
foreign to the Confederation, but can answer no
reasonable purpose. It has been said that the
proportion of numbers may guide and correct the
estimates. An assertion, purely verbal, has no mean-
ing. A judgment must first be formed of the value
of the lands upon some principles. If this should be
altered by the proportion of numbers, it is plain num-
bers would be substituted to land.

Private Correspondence 319

Another objection to this plan is that it lets in the
particular interests of the States to operate in the
returns of the quantities of land, number of build-
ings, and number of inhabitants. But the principle
of this objection applies less forcibly here than
against the former plan.

Whoever will consider the plain import of the
eighth article of the Confederation must be con-
vinced that it intended an actual and specific valua-
tion of land, buildings, and improvements, — not a
mere general estimate, according to the present plan.
While we insist, therefore, upon adhering to the Con-
federation, we should do it in reality, not barely in
appearance.

Many of those who voted for this scheme had as
bad an opinion of it as myself, but they were induced
to accede to it by a persuasion that some plan for
the purpose was expected by the States, and that
none better, in the present circumstances of the
country, could be fallen upon.

A leading rule which I have laid down for the di-
rection of my conduct is this, that, while I would
have a just deference for the expectations of the
States, I would never consent to amuse them by
attempts which must either fail in the execution or
be productive of evil. I would rather incur the
negative inconveniences of delay than the positive
mischiefs of injudicious expedients. A contrary
conduct serves to destroy confidence in the govern-
ment, the greatest misfortune that can befall a
nation. There should, in my opinion, be a character
of wisdom and efficiency in all the measures of the

320 Alexander Hamilton

Federal Council, the opposite of a spirit of tem-
porizing concession.

I would have sufficient reliance on the judg-
ments of the several States to hope that good
reasons for not attempting a thing would be more
satisfactory to them than precipitate and fruitless
attempts.

My idea is that, taking it for granted the States
will expect an experiment on the principle of the
Confederation, the best plan will be to make it by
commissioners, appointed by Congress, and acting
tmder their authority. Congress might, in the first
instance, appoint three or more of the principal
characters in each State for probity and abilities,
with a power to nominate other commissioners un-
der them in each subdivision of the State. General
principles might be laid down for the regulation of
their conduct, by which uniformity in the manner
of conducting the business would obtain. Sanctions
of such solemnity might be prescribed and such no-
toriety given to every part of the transaction, that
the commissioners could neither be careless nor par-
tial without a sacrifice of reputation.

To carry this plan, however, into effect, with
sufficient care and accuracy, would be a work both
of time and expense ; and, unfortunately, we are so
pressed to find money for calls of immediate neces-
sity, that we could not at present undertake a
measure which would require so large a sum.

To me it appears evident that every part of a busi-
ness which is of so important and imiversal concern
should be transacted on imiform principles and

Private Correspondence 321

under the direction of that body which has a common
interest.

In general, I regard the present moment, probably
the dawn of peace, as peculiarly critical, and the
measures which it shall produce as of great impor-
tance to the future welfare of these States. I am
therefore scrupulously cautious of assenting to plans
which appear to me founded on false principles.

Your Excellency will observe that the valuation
of the lands is to be the standard for adjusting the
accounts for past supplies between the United States
and the particular States. This, if adhered to with-
out allowance for the circumstances of those States
which have been more immediately the theatre of
the war, will charge our State for the past according
to its future ability when in an entire condition, if the
valuation should be made after we regain possession
of the parts of the State now in the power of the
enemy.

I have therefore introduced a motion for repeating
the call, in a more earnest manner, upon the States
to vest Congress with a power of making equitable
abatements, agreeably to the spirit of the resolution
of the 20th of February last, which few of the States
have complied with. This motion has been com-/
mitted. I know not what will be its fate.

Notwithstanding the opposition I have given, now
the matter has been decided in Congress I hope the
State will cheerfully comply with what is required.
Unless each State is governed by this principle,
there is an end to the Union. Every State will, no
doubt, have a right in this case to accompany its

VOL. IX. — 21.

322 Alexander Hamilton

compliance with such remarks as it may think proper.
After the plan was agreed upon it was committed
to be put into form, and when reported, instead of
commissioners, an alteration was carried for making
the estimate by a grand committee.

February 27.

Mr. Morris has signified to Congress his resolution
to resign by the ist of June if adequate funds are
not by that time provided. This will be a severe
stroke to our affairs. No man fit for the office will
be willing to supply his place, for the very reason he
resigns.

'T is happy for us we have reasons to expect
a peace. I am sorry that, by different accoimts,
it appears not to have been concluded late in
December.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, March 5, 1783.

Sir:

I had the honor of writing your Excellency lately
on a very confidential subject, and shall be anxious
to know, as soon as convenient, whether the letter
got safe to hand.

The bearer, Shattuck, thinks he can point out
means of apprehending Wells and Knowlton," the

'November 27, 1782, Congress directed Washington to apprehend
and secure Luke Knowlton of Newfane and Samuel Wells of Brattle-
borough, in the New Hampshire Grants, for being in a dangerous cor-
respondence and intercourse with the enemy. This affair probably
grew out of the trouble between New York and New Hampshire, and
the inhabitants of what is now Vermont. There was a party among
the people there which was said to aim at a union with the British
provinces.

Private Correspondence 323

two persons whom your Excellency was authorized
to have taken into custody. I have desired him to
call upon you to disclose the plan. I will not
trouble your Excellency with any observation on
the importance of getting hold of those persons.

The surmise that Mr. Arnold,' a member of Con-
gress, gave intelligence to them of the design to take
them, makes it peculiarly important.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, March 17, 1783.

Sir:

I am duly honored with your Excellency's letters
of the 4th and 12th instant. It is much to be re-
gretted, though not to be wondered at, that steps
of so inflammatory a tendency have been taken in
the army. Your Excellency has, in my opinion,
acted wisely. The best way is ever not to attempt
to stem a torrent, but to divert it.

I am happy to find you coincident in opinion with
me on the conduct proper to be observed by your-
self. I am persuaded more and more it is that which
is most consistent with your own reputation and
the public safety.

Our affairs wear a most serious aspect, as well
foreign as domestic. Before this gets to hand your
Excellency will probably have seen the provisional
articles between Great Britain and these States. It
might at first appearance be concluded that these

^ Jonathan Arnold, delegate from Rhode Island, but a resident of
Vermont. He was not re-elected to Congress, but there is no means
of knowing whether Hamilton's suspicions were correct.

324 Alexander Hamilton

will be a prelude to a general peace, but there are
strong reasons to doubt the truth of such a conclu-
sion. Obstacles may arise from different quarters:
from the demands of Spain and Holland; from the
hope in France of greater acquisitions in the East;
and perhaps still more probably, from the insincerity
and duplicity of Lord Shelbume, whose politics,
founded in the peculiarity of his situation, as well
as in the character of the man, may well be sus-
pected of insidiousness. I am really apprehensive
if peace does not take place that the negotiations
will tend to sow distrust among the allies and weaken
the force of the common league. We have, I fear,
men among us, and men in trust, who have a han-
kering after British connection. We have others
whose confidence in France savors of credulity.
The intrigues of the former and the incautiousness
of the latter may be both, though in different de-
grees, injurious to the American interests, and make
it difficult for prudent men to steer a proper course.

There are delicate circumstances with respect to
the late foreign transactions, which I am not at
liberty to reveal, but which, joined to our internal
weaknesses, disorders, follies, and prejudices, make
this country stand upon precarious ground.

Some use, perhaps, may be made of these ideas to
induce moderation in the army. An opinion that
their country does not stand upon a secure footing
will operate upon the patriotism of the oflQcers
against hazarding any domestic commotions.

When I make these observations I cannot forbear
adding that if no excesses take place I shall not be

Private Correspondence 325

sorry that ill-humors have appeared. I shall not
regret importunity, if temperate, from the army.

There are good intentions in the majority of Con-
gress, but there is not sufificient wisdom or decision.
There are dangerous prejudices in the particular
States opposed to those measures which alone can
give stability and prosperity to the Union. There
is a fatal opposition to Continental views. Neces-
sity alone can work a reform. But how produce
that necessity, how apply it, and how keep it within
salutary bounds? I fear we have been contending
for a shadow.

The affair of accounts I considered as having been
put on a satisfactory footing. The particular States
have been required to settle till the first of August,
'80, and the Superintendent of Finance has been
directed to take measures for settling since that
period. I shall immediately see him on the subject.

We have had eight States and a half in favor of a
commutation of the half pay for an average of ten
years' purchase — that is, five years' full pay instead
of half pay for life, which, on a calculation of annui-
ties, is nearly an equivalent. I hope this will now
shortly take place.

We have made considerable progress in a plan to
be recommended to the several States for funding
all the public debts, including those of the army,
which is certainly the only way to restore public
credit and enable us to continue the war by borrow-
ing abroad, if it should be necessary to continue it.

I omitted mentioning to your Excellency that,
from European intelligence, there is great reason to

326 Alexander Hamilton

believe, at all events — peace or war, — New York will
be evacuated in the spring. It will be a pity if any
domestic disturbances should change the plans of
the British court.

P. S. — Your Excellency mentions that it has been
surmised the plan in agitation was formed in Phila-
delphia, that combinations have been talked of be-
tween the public creditors and the army, and that
members of Congress had encouraged the idea. This
is partly true. I have myself urged in Congress the
propriety of uniting the influence of the public
creditors, and the army as part of them, to prevail
upon the States to enter into their views. I have
expressed the same sentiments out-of-doors. Sev-
eral other members of Congress have done the same.
The meaning, however, of all this was simply that
Congress should adopt such a plan as would em-
brace the relief of all the public creditors, including
the army, in order that the personal influence of
some, the connections of others, and a sense of jus-
tice to the army, as well as the apprehension of ill
consequences, might form a mass of influence in each
State in favor of the measures of Congress. In this
view, as I mentioned to your Excellency in a former
letter, I thought the discontents of the army might
be turned to a good account. I am still of opinion
that their earnest but respectful applications for re-
dress will have a good effect. As to any combination
of force, it would only be productive of the horrors
of a civil war, might end in the ruin of the country,
and would certainly end in the ruin of the army.

Private Correspondence 327

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, March 24, 1783.

Sir:

Your Excellency will, before this reaches you,
have received a letter from the Marquis de Lafay-
ette, informing you that the preliminaries of peace
between all the belligerent powers have been con-
cluded. I congratulate your Excellency on this
happy conclusion of your labors. It now only re-
mains to make solid establishments within, to per-
petuate our Union, to prevent our being a ball in
the hands of European powers, bandied against each
other at their pleasure; in fine to make our inde-
pendence truly a blessing. This, it is to be la-
mented, will be an arduous work; for, to borrow a
figure from mechanics, the centrifugal is much
stronger than the centripetal force in these States, —
the seeds of disunion much more numerous than
those of union.

I will add that your Excellency's exertions are as
essential to accomplish this end as they have been
to establish independence. I will upon a future
occasion open myself upon this subject.

Your conduct in the affair of the officers is highly
pleasing here. The measures of the army are such
as I could have wished them, and will add new
lustre to their character as well as strengthen the
hands of Congress.

328 Alexander Hamilton

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, March 25, 1783.

Sir:

I wrote your Excellency a day or two ago by ex-
press. Since that, a committee, appointed on the
communications from you, have had a meeting, and
find themselves embarrassed. They have requested
me to communicate otir embarrassments to you in
confidence, and to ask your private opinion. The
army, by their resolutions, express an expectation
that Congress will not disband them previous to a
settlement of accounts and the establishment of
funds. Congress may resolve upon the first, but the
general opinion is that they cannot constitutionally
declare the second. They have no right, by the
Confederation, to demand ftmds — they can only
recommend — and to determine that the army shall
be continued in service till the States grant them,
would be to determine that the whole present army
shall be a standing army during peace, unless the
States comply with the requisition for funds. This,
it is supposed, would excite the alarm and jealousies
of the States, and increase, rather than lessen, the
opposition to the funding scheme. It is also ob-
served the longer the army is kept together the more
the payment of past dues is procrastinated, the
abilities of the States being exhausted for their imme-
diate support, and a new debt every day incurred.
It is further suggested that there is danger in keep-
ing the army together in a state of inactivity, and
that a separation of the several lines would facilitate
the settlement of accounts, diminish present ex-

Private Correspondence 329

pense, and avoid the danger of union. It is added
that the officers of each Hne, being on the spot,
might, by their own soHcitations and those of their
friends, forward the adoption of funds in the different
States.

A proposition will be transmitted to you by Colo-
nel Bland, in the form of a resolution to be adopted
by Congress, framed upon the principles of the fore-
going reasoning.

Another proposition is contained in the following
resolution :

'''That the Commander-in-Chief be informed it is
the intention of Congress to effect the settlement of
the accounts of the respective lines previous to their
reduction, and that Congress are doing, and will
continue to do, every thing in their power towards
procuring satisfactory securities for what shall be
found due on such settlement."

The scope of this your Excellency will perceive
without comment.

I am to request you will favor me with your senti-
ments on both the propositions, and in general with
your ideas of what had best be done with reference
to the expectation expressed by the officers; taking
into view the situation of Congress. On one side the
army expect they will not be disbanded till accounts
are settled and funds established. On the other
hand, they have no constitutional power of doing
any thing more than to recommend funds, and are
persuaded that these will meet with mountains of
prejudice in some of the States.

A considerable progress has been made in a plan

330 Alexander Hamilton

for funding the public debts, and it is to be hoped it
will erelong go forth to the States, with every argu-
ment that can give it success.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, March 21;, 1783.

Sir:

The inclosed ' I write more in a public than in a
private capacity. Here I write as a citizen zealous
for the true happiness of this country; as a soldier
who feels what is due to an army which has suffered
every thing and done much for the safety of America.

I sincerely wish ingratitude was not so natural to
the human heart as it is. I sincerely wish there were
no seeds of it in those who direct the coimcils of the
United States. But while I urge the army to mod-
eration, and advise your Excellency to take the
direction of their discontents, and endeavor to con-
fine them within the botmds of duty, I cannot, as an
honest man, conceal from you that I am afraid their
distrusts have too much foundation. Republican
jealousy has in it a principle of hostility to an army,
whatever be their merits, whatever be their claims
to the gratitude of the community. It acknow-
ledges their services with unwillingness, and rewards
them with reluctance. I see this temper, though
smothered with great care, involuntarily breaking
out upon too many occasions. I often feel a mor-
tification, which it would be impolitic to express,

' The "inclosed" is the preceding letter.

Private Correspondence 331

that sets my passions at variance with my reason.
Too many, I perceive, if they could do it with safety
or color, would be glad to elude the just preten-
sions of the army. I hope this is not the prevailing
disposition.

But supposing the country ungrateful, what can
the army do? It must submit to its hard fate. To
seek redress by its arms would end in its ruin. The
army would moulder by its own weight, and for
want of the means of keeping together the soldiers
would abandon their officers; there would be no
chance of success without having recourse to means
that would reverse our revolution. I make these
observations, not that I imagine your Excellency
can want motives to continue your influence in the
path of moderation, but merely to show why I can-
not myself enter into the views of coercion which
some gentlemen entertain, for I confess, could force
avail, I should almost wish to see it employed. I
have an indifferent opinion of the honesty of this
country, and ill forebodings as to its future system.

Your Excellency will perceive I have written with
sensations of chagrin, and will make allowance for
coloring, but the general picture is too true. God
send us all more wisdom.

TO WASHINGTON

April, 1783.

Sir:

I have received your Excellency's letters of the
thirty-first of March and fourth of April, the last to-
day. The one to Colonel Bland, as member of the

332 Alexander Hamilton

committee, has been read in committee confidentially,
and gave great satisfaction. The idea of not at-
tempting to separate the army before the settlement
of accounts, corresponds with my proposition. That
of endeavoring to let them have some pay, had also
appeared to me indispensable. The expectations
of the army, as represented by your Excellency, are
moderation itself. To-morrow we confer with the
Superintendent of Finance on the subject of money.
There will be difficulty, but not, we hope, insur-
mountable.

I thank your Excellency for the hints you are so
obliging as to give me in your private letter. I do
not wonder at the suspicions that have been in-
fused; nor should I be surprised to hear that I have
been pointed out as one of the persons concerned in
playing the game described. But facts must speak
for themselves. The gentlemen who were here from
the army, and General McDougal who is still here,
will be able to give a true account of those who have
supported the just claims of the army, and of those
who have endeavored to elude them.

There are two classes of men, sir, in Congress, of
very different views: one attached to State, the
other to Continental, politics. The latter have been
strenuous advocates for funding the public debt
upon solid securities; the former have given every
opposition in their power, and have only been
dragged into the measures which are now near
being adopted, by the clamors of the army and other
public creditors.

The advocates for Continental funds have blended

Private Correspondence 333

the interests of the army with other creditors, from
a conviction that no funds for partial purposes will
go through those States to whose citizens the United
States are largely indebted; or, if they should be
carried through, from impressions of the moment,
would have the necessary stability, for the influence
of those unprovided for would always militate
against a provision for others in exclusion of them.
It is in vain to tell men who have parted with a large
part of their property on the public faith, that the
services of the army are entitled to a preference;
they would reason from their interest and their feel-
ings; these would tell them that they had as great
a title as any other class of the community to public
justice, and that while this was denied to them it
would be unreasonable to make them bear their part
of a burthen for the benefit of others. This is the
way they would reason; and as their influence in
some of the States was considerable, they would have
been able to prevent any partial provision. ■

But the question was not merely how to do justice
to the creditors, but how to restore public credit.
Taxation in this country, it was found, would not
supply a sixth part of the public necessities. The
loans in Europe were far short of the balance, and
the prospect every day diminishing: the Court of
France telling us in plain terms she could not even
do as much as she had done; individuals in Holland,
and everywhere else, refusing to part with their
money on the precarious tenure of the mere faith of
this country, without any pledge for the payment
either of principal or interest.

334 Alexander Hamilton

In this situation what was to be done? It was
essential to our cause that vigorous efforts should be
made to restore public credit; it was necessary to
combine all the motives to this end that could oper-
ate upon different descriptions of persons in the
different States; the necessities and discontents of
the army presented themselves as a powerful engine.

But, sir, these gentlemen would be puzzled to
support their insinuations by a single fact. It was,
indeed, proposed to appropriate the intended im-
post on trade to the army debt; and, what was ex-
traordinary, by gentlemen who had expressed their
dislike to the principle of the ftind. I acknowledge
I was one that opposed this, for the reasons already
assigned and for these additional ones. That was
the fund on which we most counted; to obtain fur-
ther loans in Europe, it was necessary we should
have a ftmd sufficient to pay the interest of what
had been borrowed and what was to be borrowed.
The truth was, these people, in this instance, wanted
to play off the army against the funding system.

As to Mr. Morris, I will give your Excellency a
true explanation of his conduct. He had been for
some time pressing Congress to endeavor to obtain
funds, and had found a great backwardness in the
business. He found the taxes unproductive in the
different States ; he f oimd the loans in Europe mak-
ing a very slow progress; he found himself pressed
on all hands for supplies ; he found himself, in short,
reduced to this alternative: either of making en-
gagements which he could not fulfil, or declaring his
resignation in case funds were not established by a

Private Correspondence 335

given time. Had he followed the first course, the
bubble must soon have burst; he must have sacri-
ficed his credit and his character, and public credit,
already in a ruinous condition, would have lost its
last support.

He wisely judged it better to resign. This might
increase the embarrassments of the moment; but
the necessity of the case, it was to be hoped, would
produce the proper measures; and he might then
resimie the direction of the machine with advantage
and success.

He also had some hope that his resignation would
prove a stimulus to Congress.

He was, however, ill advised in the publication of
his letters of resignation. This was an imprudent
step, and has given a handle to his personal enemies,
who, by playing upon the passions of others, have
drawn some well-meaning men into the cry against
him. But Mr. Morris certainly deserves a great deal
from his country. I believe no man in this country
but himself could have kept the money machine a-go-
ing during the period he has been in office. From
every thing that appears, his administration has
been upright as well as able.

The truth is, the old leaven of Deane and Lee is,
at this day, working against Mr. Morris. He hap-
pened, in that dispute, to have been on the side of
Deane; and certain men can never forgive him. A
man whom I once esteemed, and whom I will rather
suppose duped than wicked, is the second actor in
this business.

The matter with respect to the army which has

33^ Alexander Hamilton

occasioned most altercation in Congress and most
dissatisfaction in the army, has been the half-pay.
The opinions on this head have been two : one party
was for referring the several lines to their States, to
make such commutation as they should think proper ;
the other, for making the commutation by Congress,
and funding it on Continental security. I was of
this last opinion, and so were all those who will be
represented as having made use of the army as pup-
pets. Our principal reasons were: Firstly, by re-
ferring the lines to their respective States, those
which were opposed to the half-pay would have
taken advantage of the officers' necessities to make
the commutation far short of an equivalent. Sec-
ondly, the inequality which would have arisen in the
different States when the officers came to compare
(as has happened in other cases), would have been a
new source of discontent. Thirdly, such a reference
was a continuance of the old wretched State system,
by which the ties between Congress and the army
have been nearly dissolved, by which the resources
of the States have been diverted from the common
treasury and wasted — a system which your Excel-
lency has often justly reprobated.

I have gone into these details to give you a just
idea of the parties in Congress. I assure you, upon
my honor, sir, I have given you a candid state of
facts, to the best of my judgment. The men against
whom the suspicions you mention must be directed,
are in general the most sensible, the most liberal,
the most independent, and the most respectable
characters in our body, as well as the most im-

Private Correspondence 337

equivocal friends to the army. In a word, they are
the men who think continentally.

I am chairman of a committee for peace arrange-
ments. We shall ask your Excellency's opinion at
large on a proper military peace establishment. I
will just hint to your Excellency, that our preju-
dices will make us wish to keep up as few troops as
possible.

We this moment learn an officer is arrived from
Sir Guy Carleton with dispatches, probably official
accounts of peace.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, April 9, 1783.

Sir:

Congress having appointed a committee consist-
ing of Messrs. Madison, Osgood, Wilson, Ellsworth,
and myself, to consider what arrangements it will be
proper to adopt in the different departments with
reference to a peace, I am directed by the committee
to address your Excellency on the subject of the
military department.

The committee wish your Excellency's sentiments
at large on such institutions of every kind for the in-
terior defence of these States as may be best adapted
to their circumstances, and conciliate security with
economy and with the principles of our govern-
ment. In this they will be glad if you will take as
great latitude as you may think necessary, and will
therefore omit entering into any details.

The committee apprehend it to be the intention

VOL. IX.— 22.

33^ Alexander Hamilton

of Congress to lay down a general plan, to be carried
into execution as circumstances will permit, and
that in attending to such dispositions as the imme-
diate situation of the country may require, they are
chiefly desirous of establishing good principles that
will have a permanent salutary operation.'

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, April 15, 1783.

Sir:

There are two resolutions passed relative to the
restoration of the British prisoners, and to making
arrangements for the surrender of the posts in the
possession of the British troops; the first of which
is to be transacted b}^ you in conjunction with the
Secretary of War, the latter by yourself alone. I
will explain to you some doubts which have arisen
in Congress with regard to the true construction of
the provisional treaty, which may be of use to you
in transacting the business above mentioned.

The sixth article declares that there shall be no
future confiscations, etc., after the ratification of the
treaty in America, and the seventh article makes the
surrender of prisoners, evacuation of posts, cessa-
tion of hostilities, etc., to depend on that event, to
wit, the ratification of the treaty in America.

Now the doubt is, whether the treaty means the
provisional treaty already concluded, or the definitive
treaty to he concluded. The last construction is
most agreeable to the letter of the provisional ar-
ticles, the former most agreeable to the usual prac-

^ Now first printed from the Knox papers.

Private Correspondence 339

tice of nations, for hostilities commonly cease on the
ratification of the preliminary treaty.

There is a great diversity of opinion in Congress.
It will be, in my opinion, advisable, at the same time
that we do not communicate our doubts to the British,
to extract their sense of the matter from them.

This may be done by asking them at what periods
they are willing to stipulate the surrender of posts,
at the same time that they are asked in what manner
it will be the most convenient to them to receive the
prisoners.

If they postpone the evacuation of the different
posts to the definitive treaty, we shall then be justi-
fied in doing the same with respect to prisoners.
The question will then arise, whether, on principles
of humanity, economy, and liberality, we ought not
to restore the prisoners, at all events, without delay ?
Much may be said on both sides. I doubt the expe-
dience of a total restoration of prisoners till they are
willing to fix the epochs at which they will take leave
of us. It will add considerably to their strength,
and accidents, though improbable, may happen.

I confess, however, I am not clear in my opinion.

The provisional or preliminary treaty is ratified by
us — for the greater caution.

TO GOVERNOR CLINTON

Philadelphia, May 14, 1783.

Sir:

The President of Congress will of course have
transmitted to your Excellency the plan lately
adopted by Congress for funding the public debt.

340 Alexander Hamilton

This plan was framed to accommodate it to the ob-
jections of some of the States, but this spirit of
accommodation will only serve to render it less
efficient without making it more palatable. The
opposition of the State of Rhode Island, for in-
stance, is chiefly founded upon these two considera-
tions: the merchants are opposed to any revenue
from trade ; and the State, depending almost wholly
on commerce, wants to have credit for the amount
of the duties.

Persuaded that the plan now proposed will have
little more chance of success than a better one, and
that, if agreed to by all the States, it will in a great
measure fail in the execution, it received my nega-
tive. My principal objections were:

First, that it does not designate the funds (except
the impost) on which the whole interest is to arise,
and by which (selecting the capital articles of visible
property) the collection would have been easy, the
funds productive, and necessarily increasing with
the increase of the country.

Second, that the duration of the funds is not co-
extensive with the debt, but limited to twenty-five
years, though there is a moral certainty that in that
period the principal will not by the present provision
be fairly extinguished.

Third, that the nomination and appointment of
the collectors of the revenue are to reside in the
State, instead of at least the nomination being in the
United States; the consequence of which will be
that those States which have little interest in the
fimds, by having a small share of the public debt

Private Correspondence 341

due to their own citizens, will take care to appoint
such persons as are least likely to collect the revenue.

The evils resulting from these defects will be that
in many instances the objects of the revenues will
be improperly chosen, and will consist of a multitude
of little articles, which will, on experiment, prove in-
sufhcient; that for want of a vigorous collection in
each State the revenue will be unproductive in many,
and will fall chiefly upon those States which are
governed by most liberal principles; that for want
of an adequate security the evidences of the public
debt will not be transferable for any thing like their
value; that this not admitting an incorporation of
the creditors in the nature of banks, will deprive the
public of the benefit of an increased circulation, and
of course will disable the people from paying the
taxes for want of a sufficient medium.

I shall be happy to be mistaken in my apprehen-
sions, but the experiment must determine.

I hope our State will consent to the plan pro-
posed, because it is in her interests at all events to
promote the payment of the public debt on Conti-
nental funds (independent of the general considera-
tions of union and propriety).

I am much mistaken if the debts due from the
United States to the citizens of the State of New
York do not considerably exceed its proportion of
the necessary funds; of course, it has an immediate
interest that there should be a Continental provision
for them. But there are superior motives that
ought to operate in every State — the obligations of
national faith, honor, and reputation.

342 Alexander Hamilton

Individuals have been already too long sacrificed
to public convenience. It will be shocking, and,
indeed, an eternal reproach to this country, if we
begin the peaceable enjoyment of our independence
by a violation of all the principles of honesty and
true policy.

It is worthy of remark that at least four fifths of
the domestic debt are due to the citizens of the
States, from Pennsylvania, inclusively, northward.

P. S. — It is particularly interesting that the State
should have a representation here. Not only mat-
ters are depending which require a full representation
in Congress, and there is now a thin one, but those
matters are of a nature so particularly interesting
to our State, that we ought not to be without a
voice in them. I wish two other gentlemen of the
delegation may appear as soon as possible, for it
would be very injurious for me to remain much
longer here. Having no future views in public life,
I owe it to myself without delay to enter upon the
care of my private concerns in earnest.

TO GOVERNOR CLINTON

Philadelphia, June i, 1783.

Sir:

In my last letter to your Excellency I took occa-
sion to mention that it was of great importance to
the State at this time to have a representation here,
as points in which, by its present situation, it is
particularly interested are daily and will be daily
agitated.

It is also of importance at this moment to the

Private Correspondence 343

United States (not only from general consideration,
but) because we have a very thin representation in
Congress, and are frequently unable to transact any
of those matters which require nine States. I wish
your Excellency would urge a couple of gentlemen
to come on, as it becomes highly inconvenient to me
to remain here, and as I have stayed the full time to
be expected.

I observe with great regret the intemperate pro-
ceedings among the people in different parts of the
State, in violation of a treaty, the faithful observ-
ance of which so deeply interests the United States.

Surely the State of New York, with its capital and
its frontier posts (on which its important fur trade
depends), in the hands of the British troops, ought
to take care that nothing is done to furnish a pretext
on the other side, even for delaying, much less for
refusing, the execution of the treaty. We may
imagine that the situation of Great Britain puts her
under a necessity, at all events, of fulfilling her en-
gagements and cultivating the good-will of this
country.

This is, no doubt, her true policy: but when we
feel that passion makes us depart from the dictates
of reason ; when we have seen that passion has had so
much influence in the conduct of the British councils
in the whole course of the war; when we recollect
that those who govern them are men like ourselves,
and alike subject to passions and resentments ; when
we reflect also that all the great men in England
are not united in the liberal scheme of policy with
respect to this country, and that in the anarchy

344 Alexander Hamilton

which prevails there is no knowing to whom the
reins of government may be committed; when we
recollect how little in a condition we are to force a
compliance with our claims we ought certainly to be
cautious in what manner we act, especially when we
in particular have so much at stake, and should not
openly provoke a breach of faith on the other side
by setting the example.

iVn important distinction is not sufficiently at-
tended to. The fifth article is recommendatory;
the sixth, positive. There is no option on the part
of the particular States as to any future confisca-
tions, prosecutions, or injuries of any kind, to per-
son, liberty, or property, on account of any thing
done in the war. It is matter of discretion in the
States whether they will comply with the recom-
mendations contained in the fifth article; but no
part of the sixth can be departed from by them
without a direct breach of public faith and of the
Confederation. The power of making treaties is ex-
clusively lodged in Congress. That power includes
whatever is essential to the termination of the war
and to the preservation of the general safety. In-
demnity to individuals in similar cases is a usual
stipulation in treaties of peace, of which many prece-
dents are to be produced.

Should it be said that the associations of the
people, without legal authority, do not amoimt to
a breach of the public faith, the answer is, if the
government does not repress them, and prevent
them having effect, it is as much a breach as a formal
refusal to comply on its part. In the eye of a

Private Correspondence 345

foreign nation, if our engagements are broken, it is
of no moment whether it is for the want of good in-
tention in the government, or for want of power to
restrain its subjects.

Suppose a violence committed by an American
vessel on the vessel of another nation on the high
seas, and after complaint made there is no redress
given. Is not this a hostility against the injured
nation which will justify reprisals?

But if I am not misinformed, there are violations
going on in form of law. I am told that indictments
continue to be brought under the former confiscation
laws. A palpable infraction, if true, of the sixth
article of the treaty, to which an immediate stop
ought no doubt to be put.

It has been said by some men that the operation
of this treaty is suspended till the definitive treaty ;
a plain subterfuge. Whatever is clearly expressed
in the provisional or preliminary treaty is as binding
from the moment it is made as the definitive treaty,
which, in fact, only develops, explains, and fixes
more precisely what may have been too generally
expressed in the former.

Suppose the British should now send away not
only the negroes, but all other property, and all the
public records in their possession belonging to us,
on the pretence above stated; should we not justly
accuse them with breaking faith? Is this not al-
ready done in the case of the negroes who have been
carried away, though foimded upon a very different
principle — a doubtful construction of the treaty,
not a denial of its immediate operation.

346 Alexander Hamilton

In fine, is it our interest to advance this doctrine
and to countenance the position that nothing is
binding till the definitive treaty, when there are ex-
amples of years intervening between the preliminary
and definitive treaties?

Sir Guy Carleton, in his correspondence, has ap-
peared to consider the treaty as immediately obli-
gatory, and it has been the policy which I have
pursued to promote the same idea.

I am not, indeed, apprehensive of the renewal of
the war, for peace is necessary to Great Britain. I
think it also most probable her disposition to con-
ciliate this country will outweigh the resentments
which a breach of our engagements is calculated to
inspire. But with a treaty which has exceeded the
hopes of the most sanguine; which, in the articles
of boundary and the fisheries, is even better than we
asked; circumstanced, too, as this country is with
respect to the means of making war, I think it the
height of imprudence to run any risk. Great Brit-
ain, without recommencing hostilities, may evade
parts of the treaty. She may keep possession of the
frontier posts ; she may obstruct the free enjoyment
of the fisheries; she may be indisposed to such ex-
tensive concessions in matters of commerce as it is
our interest to aim at. In all this she would find no
opposition from any foreign power, and we are not
in a condition to oblige her to any thing. If we
imagine that France, obviously embarrassed herself
in her finances, would renew the war to oblige Great
Britain to the restoration of frontier posts, or to a
compliance with the stipulations respecting the

Private Correspondence 347

fisheries (especially after a manifest breach of the
treaty on our part), we speculate much at random.
Observations might be made on the last article
which would prove that it is not the policy of France
to support our interest there. Are we prepared, for
the mere gratification of our resentments, to put
those great national objects to the hazard: to leave
our Western frontier in a state of insecurity; to
relinquish the fur- trade ; and to abridge our preten-
sions to the fisheries? Do we think national char-
acter so light a thing as to be willing to sacrifice the
public faith to individual animosity?

Let the case be fairly stated: Great Britain and
America, two independent nations, at war. The
former in possession of considerable posts and dis-
tricts of territory belonging to the latter, and also
of the means of obstructing certain commercial ad-
vantages in which it is deeply interested.

But it is not imcommon in treaties of peace for
the uti possidetis to take place. Great Britain, how-
ever, in the present instance, stipulates to restore
all our posts and territories in her possession. She
even adds an extent not within our original claims,
more than a compensation for a small part ceded in
another quarter. She agrees to readmit us to a par-
ticipation in the fisheries. What equivalent do we
give for this? Congress are to recommend the re-
storation of property to those who have adhered to
her, and expressly engage that no future injury shall
be done them in person, liberty, or property. This
is the sole condition, on our part, where there is not
an immediate reciprocity (the recovery of debts and

34^ Alexander Hamilton

liberation of prisoners being mutual, the former, in-
deed, only declaring what the rights of private faith,
which all civilized nations hold sacred, would have
declared without it), and stands as the single equiva-
lent for all the restitutions and concessions to be
made by Great Britain. Will it be honest in us to
violate this condition, or will it be prudent to put
it in competition with all the important matters to
be performed on the other side ?

Will foreign nations be willing to undertake any
thing with us, or for us, when they find that the
nature of our governments will allow no dependence
to be placed upon our engagements ? I have omitted
saying any thing of the impolicy of inducing by our
severity a great number of useful citizens, whose
situations do not make them a proper object of
resentment, to abandon the country to form settle-
ments that will hereafter become our rivals, ani-
mated with a hatred to us which will descend to
their posterity. Nothing, however, can be more un-
wise than to contribute, as we are doing, to people
the shores and wilderness of Nova Scotia, a colony
which, by its position, will become a competitor with
us, among other things, in that branch of commerce
on which our navigation and navy will essentially
depend; — I mean the fisheries, in which I have no
doubt the State of New York will hereafter have a
considerable share.

To your Excellency I freely deliver my sentiments,
because I am persuaded you cannot be a stranger to
the force of these considerations. I fear not even to
hazard them to the justice and good sense of those

Private Correspondence 349

whom I have the honor to represent. I esteem it my
duty to do it, because the question is important to
the interests of the State in its relation to the United
States.

Those who consult only their passions might
choose to construe what I say as too favorable to a
set of men who have been the enemies of the public
liberty, but those for whose esteem I am most con-
cerned will acquit me of any personal consideration,
and will perceive that I only urge the cause of na-
tional honor, safety, and advantage. We have as-
sumed an independent station ; we ought to feel and
to act in a manner consistent with the dignity of
that station.

I anxiously wish to see every prudent measure
taken to prevent those combinations which will cer-
tainly disgrace us, if they do not involve us in other
calamities. Whatever distinctions are judged neces-
sary to be made in the cases of those persons who have
been in opposition to the common cause, let them be
made by legal authority, on a fair construction of the
treaty, consistent with national faith and national
honor.

' P. S. — Your Excellency will have been informed
that Congress have instructed General Washington
to garrison the frontier posts, when stirrendered,
with the three years' Continental troops. This is
more for the interest of the State than to have them
garrisoned at its particular expense, and I should
wish that permanent provision might be made on
the same principle. I wait to see whether any

^ Thus divided in original in State Department.

350 Alexander Hamilton

Continental peace establishment for garrisons, etc.,
will take place, before I engage the consent of Con-
gress to a separate provision.

I cannot forbear adding a word on the subject of
money. The only reliance we now have for redeem-
ing a large anticipation on the public credit, already
made and making for the benefit of the army, is on
the taxes coming in. The collection hitherto is out
of all proportion to the demand. It is of vast con-
sequence at this jimcture that every thing possible
should be done to forward it. I forbear entering
into details which would be very striking upon this
subject. I will only say that unless there is a seri-
ous exertion in the States, public credit must ere-
long receive another shock very disagreeable in its
consequences.

TO JOHN DICKINSON *

1783.

Sir:

Having always entertained an esteem for you per-
sonally, I could not, without reluctance, yield to im-
pressions that might weaken that sentiment, and it
is with pain I find myself drawn by circumstances
to animadvert upon the late message from the
Executive Council to the Assembly of Pennsylvania
relative to the mutiny, in a manner which may seem

^ In the edition of 1850 this letter is headed "To Reed, "presumably-
intending Joseph Reed, who was President of Pennsylvania in 1781.
The original in the State Department has no address. The mutiny to
which this refers was in 1783, the letter is dated 1783, and John Dick-
inson was President from 1782 to 1786. It seems obvious that this
letter was written to the supreme magistrate of Pennsylvania, and if
so it must have been to Dickinson.

Private Correspondence 351

to impeach the candor of those who were the authors
of it.

But it will be impossible for persons who have read
the report of the committee and the message of the
Council, however inclined to make allowances for
the force of involuntary bias, not to conclude that
on one side or the other the facts have been wilfully-
discolored. I decline any attempt to set the public
opinion right upon this subject, because, after all
that can be said, the judgments of men will eventu-
ally be determined by personal and party preposses-
sions. So far as I am concerned, I persuade myself
that those who are acquainted with me will place
entire confidence in my fairness and veracity. I
doubt not your Excellency's friends will be equally
partial to you, and those of the Council to them.
But though I should despair of rectifying or fixing
the public opinion by an appeal to the public, and
though I have seen too much of the ridicule thrown
upon such appeals from men in official stations, and
of the ill effect they have had upon the national
character, not to be willing to sacrifice the desire of
justifying myself to considerations of prudence and
propriety, yet I cannot forbear indulging my feelings
so far as to enter into a few explanations with your
Excellency, submitting the justness of them to the
testimony of your own mind.

As this is a mere private discussion, I address my-
self to your Excellency in particular; and the rather,
as, from the style and manner of the message, I take
it for granted you had the principal agency in it, and
I shall consider, on the same grounds, the notes in

352 Alexander Hamilton

' paper of the % as a comment on the report

of the committee by yourself, in aid of the message.

I take up the matter individually, because I mean
to treat it on a private footing, and because, though
I do not acknowledge any peculiar responsibility, it
happened to be my lot, as chairman, principally to
conduct the conferences on the part of the committee.

I regard the whole of this business as a most un-
fortunate one, in which, probably, none of the actors
will acquire great credit. I deplore it as tending to
interrupt the harmony between Congress and a re-
spectable, a meritorious member of the Union. Who
were right or who were wrong is a question of less
importance than how mutual irritations may be
best healed. Whatever revives or continues the
former, is to be regretted. I lament to be under an
inducement to discuss circumstances that relate to
it in the remotest degree. Nothing but an attack
upon the ingenuousness of my conduct could have
called me to it. Its prudence, either collectively or
individually, would patiently have been consigned
to the lash of censure and criticism, merited or
immerited.

Happily in the present case, the members of the
committee have a strong ground, from which they
cannot easily be forced. Apprehensive of miscon-
ception, I will not say of misrepresentation, they
tried to render it impossible by written communi-
cations. The presumption, with impartial minds,
cannot fail to be in favor of that side which gave
so decisive a proof of its disposition to fairness

* These blanks are in the manuscript.

Private Correspondence 353

as to endeavor to put it out of its own power to
misrepresent.

The professed scruples of the Council cannot be
admitted to have any weight. Usage and the
plainest rules of propriety will dictate that it never
could have wounded the dignity or delicacy of the
executive of any State to have given to a committee
of Congress, appointed to confer on a subject of
moment, a written answer to a request in writing
after previous explanations. The fact stated speaks
for itself. The consequences show that the precau-
tion of the committee was well judged, and that
it would have been well for the Council to have
concurred.

In the present case it might be observed that
there was, in the first instance, a written application
from Congress to the Council, in the customary form
of resolutions; and though a committee was au-
thorized to confer and explain, a formal and authen-
tic answer might reasonably have been expected by
Congress, and, when desired by the committee, should
have been understood as desired on their behalf.

There is an awkwardness in reasoning upon self-
evident positions ; but as the Council have, by their
conduct in the first instance and by their message
since, put forward a doubt upon the subject, and
made it a point of importance, I shall be excused for
examining it a little further. On what could the
objection of the Council be founded? They say it
had been unusual. Admitting the fact, was the mere
novelty of the thing a sufficient reason against it?
If there was no apparent inconvenience in making

VOL. IX.— 23.

354 Alexander Hamilton

a new precedent ; if, on the contrary, there was a
manifest convenience in it, ought not such a punctiHo
to have given way to considerations of utility ?

Was it derogatory to the dignity of the Council?
Surely, if they communicate in writing with the
executive servants of Congress, even those in sub-
ordinate stations, as is the practice of every day, and
as is indispensable to the prosecution of public busi-
ness, they might, at less expense of dignity, pursue
the same mode with a part of that body itself.

The distinction taken by the Council in their
message to the Assembly, respecting the responsi-
bility of such executive officers, as not applicable to
a committee, if it amounts to any thing, proves only
this: That such officers ought in prudence to take
greater precautions for their own justification than
a committee of Congress need to do. It is not to be
inferred, if a committee of Congress acting minis-
terially think it expedient to use circumspection,
that those with whom they are transacting business
can with propriety refuse to join them in that mode
which is best adapted to precision and certainty.

But indeed the ground of distinction is erroneous.
A committee of Congress act in a ministerial capa-
city, and are therefore responsible to the body to
which they belong, as well as the servants of that
body, though in a different manner. If it be said
that they do not act ministerially, but stand in the
place of Congress, then the Council, upon their own
principles, ought to have complied with their request.

To diminish the exceptionableness of their refusal,
it is true, as stated by the Council, that though they

Private Correspondence 355

said they could not condescend to do what the com-
mittee had asked, yet they declared themselves
v^illing to grant an answer in writing if Congress
should request it, and that they proposed that the
committee should put their verbal answer in writing,
to be afterward perused and examined by them.

The answer of the committee, as I doubt not
your Excellency will recollect, was, as to the first
point, that Congress in all probability would not
make the request, having determined (as the Council
had been already informed) not to resume their de-
liberations in this city until effective measures had
been taken to suppress the mutiny, and should they
assemble, would naturally feel a delicacy in request-
ing what had been denied to their committee. And
as to the second point, that the Council having
judged it inexpedient to give a written answer, the
committee would content themselves with making
the most accurate report in their power, relying
upon the confidence of the body to which they be-
longed and upon the candor of the Council.

Your Excellency is too good a judge of human
nature, as well as the force of language, not to have
perceived at the time the effect which the refusal of
the Council had upon my mind. I own it struck
me as an uncandid reserve, or an unbecoming state-
liness, and in either supposition a disrespect to the
body of which the committee were members.

Though nothing enters less into my temper than
an inclination to fetter business by punctilio, after
the Council had discovered such overwhelming
nicety I should have thought it a degradation to

35 6 Alexander Hamilton

my official character to have consented to their
proposal.

The desire of self -justification is so natural that I
should not have been surprised to have seen the
transactions which are the subject of the Council's
message receive a coloring favorable to their pur-
pose; but I did not expect to see material facts
either suppressed or denied.

The report made by the committee on the first in-
terview with the Council was, I acknowledge, from
memory, and therefore I admit a possibility of error ;
but so far as my memory can be relied on, the repre-
sentation was just. And I am certain that there is
a mistake in the insinuation that the circumstance
of the message sent to Congress by the Board of Ser-
geants was not mentioned at all to the Council, for
I have a note of it, taken immediately after the first
conference subsequent to the mutiny. The affair,

by the event of , having assumed a more serious

aspect, I kept a regular minute of the proceedings,
a summary of which made up our report to Congress,
and which I shall annex at large to this letter for
your Excellency's perusal.

The message entirely omits the declaration of the

Council that ' ; and the note says that the

Council only declared: ''That they could not be
sure that such another insult would produce those
exertions."* The difference in this article is of

' This blank is in the manuscript.

2 "The words, as reported by the committee to Congress, were : 'It,*
i. e., the arming of the citizens to suppress the mutineers, 'was not to
be expected, merely from a repetition of the insult which had hap-
pened.' " — Note by Col. Pickering.

Private Correspondence 357

great importance. The declaration made so deep
an impression at the time that almost the precise
words remained in my memory. They were twice
repeated, as well when we saw your Excellency alone
in your own house in the morning, as when you de-
livered to us in the Council-chamber the determina-
tion of the Council.

Mr. Ellsworth ' in half an hour afterwards re-
peated them to several members of Congress assem-
bled at the President's house, and in a few hours
from that time I committed them to writing. I
cannot suppose your Excellency's recollection fails
you in this particular, and I must pointedly appeal
to your candor.

To show the inaccuracy with which the report of
the committee was composed, it is observed in the
notes with respect to that part which relates to the
commission given by the mutineers to the officers
whom they had chosen to represent them, that only
two hours had intervened between that event and
the conference with the Council, and that it was very
improbable the knowledge of it could have so early
reached the committee. It is added that none of
the Council remembers to have heard a single sylla-
ble respecting it during the whole conference.

As to the argument drawn from the short interval
between the delivery of the commission and the con-
ference, it will be sufficient to say that the committee
held a constant communication with General St.
Clair, and that he kept a vigilant eye upon all the
motions of the mutineers; that his access to them

' "Mr. Ellsworth was the other member of the committee. — T. P."

35^ Alexander Hamilton

was easy; that the fact in question was a matter of
immediate notoriety ; that two hours were abundant
time for a thing of that nature to be conveyed from
the barracks to General St. Clair's quarters; and
that one of the committee had actually seen and
obtained the intelligence from him a little time be-
fore the interview with the Council commenced.

It is much more extraordinary that the Council
should have been apprised of it so late, than that
the committee should have known it so early. As
to the memory of the Council, it is unfortunate it
should have been so fallible as it is said to have been ;
but I would rather suppose "in the quick succession
of circumstances" the matter had escaped their re-
collection, than that my minutes as well as my mem-
ory should have deceived me. I well recollect also
that your Excellency, when it was mentioned, ac-
knowledged that it rather contradicted the pacific
appearance which the conduct of the troops in other
respects wore.

These are the essential differences in point of fact
between the report of the committee and the message
of the Council; the whole complexion, indeed, of the
one materially varies from the other; but the most
common observer must have noticed how different
an aspect the same facts will bear differently dressed
and arranged. It was to avoid this we proposed to
reduce them to writing, but as this has not been
done, spectators must judge, from the situation of
the parties and the course of the transactions, which
side has given the justest relation.

I cannot, however, forbear remarking that I see

Private Correspondence 359

expressions of civility on the part of the committee,
making a figure in the message very different from
their genuine intention, being introduced in a man-
ner that gives them the air of concessions in favor of
the conduct of the Council. Your Excellency will
certainly recollect that the committee v^ere very
remote from a concurrence in sentiment with the
Council ; and, though they did not presume to judge
of the disposition of the citizens, strongly urged the
expedience and necessity of calling out the mihtia,
and facility of employing them with success against
an unofficered and disorderly body of mutinous sol-
diers. It is true also that they acknowledged the
candor with which the Council exposed to them
what they deemed the temper of their citizens and
their own difficulties and embarrassments, which
were, no doubt, delineated with great energy of lan-
guage and display of circumstances, but they cer-
tainly never admitted the candor of refusing an
answer in writing, which was a part of the business
transacted with the Council; nor did they withdraw
without giving an intelligible intimation of their
sense of this proceeding.

I was also surprised to see any part of the private
and confidential conversation I had with your Ex-
cellency ushered into the message from the Council,
and moulded into such a shape as to imply, by an
obvious construction, an approbation of their reasons.
Your Excellency will admit the following state of
this transaction to be a just one.

I waited upon the Council to correct a piece of in-
formation I had given them respecting ammunition,

3^0 Alexander Hamilton

but even this is misstated, as will be seen by my
minutes. Having done this, my official business
ended, when I was taken aside by your Excellency,
and a conversation passed in declared confidence.
You informed me that a meeting of the militia
officers was then holding, and in consultation with
the Council about eventual measures (in conse-
quence, as I conjectured, of a communication to you
the preceding evening from the delegates of the
State, of the intention of Congress to remove from
the city in case they did not receive satisfactory
assurances of support). You added that you hoped
nothing would be precipitated, but that proper al-
lowance would be made for the situation of the
Coimcil.

I understood your observations with reference to
the departure of Congress, and replied to this effect:
That I viewed the departure of Congress as a delicate
measure, including consequences important to the
national character abroad, and critical with respect
to the State of Pennsylvania, and, in particular, the
city of Philadelphia; that the triumph of a handful
of mutinous soldiers, permitted in a place which is
considered as the capital of America, to surround
and, in fact, imprison Congress, without the least
effort on the part of the citizens to uphold their dig-
nity and authority, so as to oblige them to remove
from the place which had been their residence during
the Revolution, would, it was to be feared, be viewed
at a distance as a general disaffection of the citizens
to the Federal Government, might discredit its ne-
gotiations, and affect the national interests ; that at

Private Correspondence 361

home it might give a deep wound to the reputation
of Pennsylvania, might draw upon it the resentments
of the other States, and sow discord between Con-
gress and the State; that the removal of Congress
would probably bring the affair to a crisis, and, by
convincing the mutineers that extremities were in-
tended, would either intimidate them into a sub-
mission, or determine them to immediate excesses;
that, impressed with these considerations, and still
hoping, notwithstanding some appearances to the
contrary, that the mutineers might be sincere in
their professions of submission, or that the Council,
on further examination, would find it in their power
to act with vigor, I had declined giving my assent to
a report in writing, which would necessarily be fol-
lowed by the departure of Congress ; that though the
committee had no discretion by the powers under
which they acted, but were bound, by the tenor of
their instructions, the moment they did not receive
''satisfactory assurances of prompt and adequate
exertions on the part of the State for supporting the
public authority," to advise the adjournment of
Congress to Trenton or Princeton, and I therefore
considered the delay of this advice as at their ex-
treme peril; yet, as to myself, I should persist in it
till the result of the present consultation with the
militia officers, or till some new circumstance should
turn up to explain the designs of the mutineers ; and
in pursuing this line of conduct I should counteract
the sense of some gentlemen whose feelings upon the
occasion were keen, and the opinions of others who
thought the situation of Congress, under the existing

362 Alexander Hamilton

circumstances, extremely awkward, precarious, and
unjustifiable to their constituents.

Your Excellency approved my intention, wished
for time, and promised if any new resolution should
be taken to give me immediate notice of it.

The meeting of the militia officers dissolved; I
heard nothing from your Excellency. General St.
Clair, about two in the afternoon, informed the com-
mittee that the officers appointed by the soldiers to
manage their business had, in the first instance, re-
fused to give him an account of their transactions,
the which was only extracted from them by a per-
emptory demand. He mentioned to us the instruc-
tions they had received from the soldiers, which
contained faint and affected concessions, mixed with
new and inadmissible demands.

The whole affair wore the complexion of collusion
between the officers of the committee and the sol-
diery, and of a mere amusement on their part until
they could gain fresh strength and execute their pro-
ject, whatever it might be, with greater advantage.

This behavior of the officers gave the affair a new
and more serious aspect, and overcame my opposi-
tion to the report. Mr. Peters, on hearing the rela-
tion of General St. Clair, declared at once that he
thought the committee had then no alternative; at
least, what he said was understood in this sense by
General St. Clair, Mr. Ellsworth, and myself. If I
am not much mistaken. General St. Clair also ex-
pressed his opinion that Congress were unsafe in the
city.

The ideas I suggested to your Excellency, in the

Private Correspondence 363

conversation I have mentioned, were substantially
expressed to several members of Congress as the
motives of my delay, and particularly, I recollect, to
Mr. Madison, with these observations in addition:
That though I was fully convinced Congress, imder
an immediate view of circumstances, would in
reality be justified in withdrawing from a place
where such an outrage to government had been with
impunity perpetrated by a body of armed mutineers,
still, for several days, in complete command of the
city, and where either the feebleness of public coun-
cils or the indisposition of the citizens afforded no
assurance of protection and support, yet, as the
opinions of men would be governed by events, and
as the most probable event was that the removal of
Congress, announcing decisive measures of coercion
to the soldiery, would awe them into submission,
there was great danger that the reputation of Con-
gress would suffer by the easy termination of the
business, and that they would be accused of levity,
timidity, or rashness.

Though not within the scope of my original in-
tention, I will indulge in a few additional reflections
on this subject. I am sensible that the Council, in
some respects, stand upon advantageous ground in
this discussion. Congress left the city because they
had no forces at hand, no jurisdiction over the
militia, and no assurances of effectual support from
those who had. The Council, as the executive of the
State, were necessitated to remain on the spot. Soon
after Congress removed, the mutineers were deserted
by their leaders and surrendered at discretion.

364 Alexander Hamilton

The multitude will be very apt to conclude that
the affair was of trifling consequence; that it van-
ished iinder its own insignificance; that Congress
took up the matter in too high a tone of authority;
that they discovered a prudish nicety and irritability
about their own dignity ; that the Council were more
temperate, more humane, and possessed of greater
foresight.

The bias in favor of an injured army, the propen-
sity of the human mind to lean to the speciousness
of professed humanity rather than to the necessary
harshness of authority, the vague and imperfect
notions of what is due to public authority in an
infant popular government, and the insinuating
plausibility of a well-constructed message, will all
contribute to that conclusion.

But let us suppose an impartial man of sense, well
acquainted with facts, to form an argument upon
the subject. It appears to me he might naturally
fall into this train of combination.

It is a well-known fact that, from the necessities
of the war, or the delinquencies of the several States,
Congress were not enabled to comply with their en-
gagements to the army, which, after a glorious and
successful struggle for their country, much suffering,
exemplary patience, and signal desert, they were
compelled, by the irresistible dictates of an empty
treasury and a ruined credit, to disband, after hav-
ing given strong indications of their discontent and
resentment of the public neglect. A large part of
the army suffer themselves to be patiently dismissed ;
a particular corps of four or five hundred men, sta-

Private Correspondence 365

tioned in the place where Congress reside, refuse
to accept their discharges but on certain specified
conditions.

They even go further, and, stimulated by their in-
juries, or encouraged and misled by designing per-
sons, are emboldened to send a threatening message
to Congress, declaring to them that unless they
would do them justice immediately they would find
means of redress for themselves. Measures are in-
directly taken to appease this disorder and give the
discontented soldiers as much satisfaction as the
situation of things will permit. Shortly after, ac-
counts are received that another corps, at

miles' distance, have also mutinied, and that a part
of them, to the number of about eighty men, are on
their march to join those who had already discovered
so refractory a disposition. A committee of Con-
gress is immediately appointed to confer with the
executive of the State on the measures proper to be
pursued in this exigency. That committee in the
first instance suggest to the Council the expedience
of calling out a body of militia to intercept the de-
tachment of mutineers on its march and represent
the danger of the progress of the spirit of mutiny
and of future outrages should those on their march
be suffered without molestation, to join a more nu-
merous corps in the same temper with themselves.

The Council urge a variety of difficulties: the
shortness of the time to collect the militia before
the mutineers would arrive, the reluctance with
which the citizens would obey a call against men
whom they consider as meritorious, and injured,

366 Alexander Hamilton

and the like. The committee perceiving the un-
willingness of the Council to employ the militia,
desist from pressing, and recur to expedients. The
day after, the mutineers march in triumph into the
city, and unite themselves with those who are al-
ready there; and the following day, the whole body
assemble in arms, throw off all obedience to their
officers, and, in open defiance of government, march
to the place which is the usual seat of Congress and
the Council of the State, while both are actually
sitting; surround it with guards, and send a message
to the Council, demanding authority to appoint,
themselves, officers to command them, with abso-
lute discretion to take such measures as those officers
should think proper to redress their grievances, ac-
companied with a threat that, if there was not
a compliance in twenty minutes, they would let in
an injured soldiery upon them, and abide the
consequence.

The members of Congress who were at the time
assembled, request General St. Clair, who happened
to be present, to take such measures as he should
judge expedient, without committing the honor of
government, to divert the storm, and induce the
troops to return to their quarters without perpetrat-
ing acts of violence. General St. Clair, in concert
with the Council, grants the mutineers permission
to elect, out of officers then or formerly in com-
mission, such as they should confide in, to repre-
sent their grievances to the Council, with a promise
that the Council would confer with the persons
elected for that piirpose. Having obtained this

Private Correspondence 367

promise, the mutineers return to their quarters, in
military parade, and continue in open defiance of
government.

The concession made was a happy compromise
between an attention to dignity and a prudent re-
gard to safety.

Men who had dared to carry their insolence to
such an extreme, and who saw no opposition to their
outrages, were not to be expected to retreat without
an appearance, at least, of gratifying their demands.
The slightest accident were sufficient to prompt men
in such a temper and situation to tragical excesses.

But however it might become the delicacy of gov-
ernment not to depart from the promise it had given,
it was its duty to provide effectually against a re-
petition of such outrages, and to put itself in a situa-
tion to give, instead of receiving, the law, and to
manifest that its compliance was not the effect of
necessity, but of choice.

This was not to be considered as the disorderly
riot of an unarmed mob, but as the deliberate mutiny
of an incensed soldiery, carried to the utmost point
of outrage short of assassination. The licentious-
ness of an army is to be dreaded in every govern-
ment, but in a republic it is more particularly to be
restrained; and when directed against the civil au-
thority, to be checked with energy and punished
with severity. The merits and sufferings of the
troops might be a proper motive for mitigating
punishment, when it was in the power of the gov-
ernment to inflict it ; but it was no reason for relax-
ing in the measures necessary to put itself in that

368 Alexander Hamilton

situation. Its authority was first to be vindicated,
and then its clemency to be displayed.

The rights of government are as essential to be
defended as the rights of individuals. The security
of the one is inseparable from that of the other.
And, indeed, in every new government, especially of
the popular kind, the great danger is that public
authority will not be siifficiently respected.

But upon this occasion there were more particular
reasons for decision.

Congress knew there were within two or three
days' march of the city a more considerable body of
the same corps, part of which had mutinied and
come to town, and had been the chief actors in the
late disorder; that those men had with difficulty
been kept, by the exertions of their officers, from
joining the insurgents in the first instance; that
there was another corps in their neighborhood
which, a little time before, had also discovered symp-
toms of mutiny; that a considerable part of the
same line which were in mutiny in town was every
moment expected to arrive from the southward, and
there was the greatest reason to conclude would be
infected with the same spirit on their arrival, as had
presently happened in the case of a small detach-
ment which had joined a few days before; that there
were besides large numbers of disbanded soldiers
scattered through the country, in want, and who
had not yet had time to settle down to any occupa-
tion, and exchange their military for private habits;
that some of these were really coming in and add-
ing themselves to the revolters; that an extensive

Private Correspondence 369

accession of strength might be gained from these
different quarters, and that there were all the S3^mpa-
thies of like common wrongs, distresses, and resent-
ments to bring them together and to unite them in
one cause. The partial success of those who had
already made an experiment would be a strong en-
couragement to others, the rather as the whole line
had formerly mutinied, not only with impunity, but
with advantage to themselves.

In this state of things, decision was most compat-
ible with the safety of the community, as well as
the dignity of government. Though no general
convulsion might be to be apprehended, serious mis-
chiefs might attend the progress of the disorder.
Indeed it would have been meanness to have nego-
tiated and temporized with an armed banditti of
four or five hundred men, who, in any other situa-
tion than surrounding a defenceless senate, could
only become formidable by being feared. This was
not an insurrection of a whole people ; it was not an
army, with their officers at their head, demanding the
justice of their country — either of which might have
made caution and concession respectable ; it was a
handful of mutinous soldiers, who had equally violated
the laws of discipline and rights of public authority.

Congress therefore wisely resolve that '* it is neces-
sary that effectual measures be immediately taken
for supporting the public authority," and call upon
the State in which they reside for assistance of its
militia, at the same time that they send orders for
the march of a body of regular forces as an eventual
resource.

VOL. IX.— 24.

370 Alexander Hamilton

There was a propriety in calling for the aid of the
militia, in the first place, for different reasons. Civil
government may always, with more peculiar pro-
priety, resort to the aid of the citizens to repel mili-
tary insults or encroachments.

'T is there, it ought to be supposed, where it may
seek its surest dependence, especially in a democ-
racy which is the creature of the people. The citi-
zens of each State are, in an aggregate light, the
citizens of the United States, and bound as much to
support the representatives of the whole as their
own immediate representatives. The insult was not
to Congress personally; it was to the government,
to public authority in general, and was very properly
put upon that footing. The regular forces which
Congress cotild command were at a great distance,
and could not, but in a length of time, be brought to
effectuate their purpose. The disorder continued to
exist on the spot where they were, was likely to in-
crease by delay, and might be productive of sudden
and mischievous effects by being neglected.

The city and the bank were in immediate danger
of being rifled, and perhaps of suffering other calami-
ties. The citizens, therefore, were the proper per-
sons to make the first exertion.

The objection that these were not the objects of
the care of Congress, can only serve to mislead the
vulgar. The peace and safety of the place which
was the immediate residence of Congress, endan-
gered, too, by the troops of the United States, demanded
their interposition. The President of the State of
Pennsylvania was himself of this opinion, having

Private Correspondence 37 1

declared to a member of that body, that, as their
troops were the offenders, it was proper for them to
declare the necessity of calling out the militia, as a
previous step to its being done.

Nor is there more weight in the supposition that
the danger was inconsiderable, and that, from the
pacific appearances of the troops, it was to be ex-
pected the disorder would subside of itself. The
facts were, that the troops still continued in a state
of mutiny, had made no submissions nor offered any,
and that they effected to negotiate with their arms
in their hands.

A band of mutinous soldiers in such a situation,
uncontrolled, and elated with their own power, was
not to be trusted.

The most sudden vicissitudes and contradictory
changes were to be expected, and a fit of intoxica-
tion was sufficient at any moment, with men who
had already gone such length, to make the city a
scene of plunder and massacre. It was the height
of rashness to leave the city exposed to the bare
possibility of such mischiefs.

The only question, in this view, is, whether there
was greater danger to the city in attempting their
reduction by force, than in endeavoring by pallia-
tives to bring them to a sense of duty? It has been
urged, and appeared to have operated strongly upon
the minds of the Council,' that the soldiers being
already embodied, accustomed to arms, and ready

I Your Excellency will recollect that in our private conversation you
urged this consideration, and appealed to my military experience, and
that I made substantially the observations which follow.

372 Alexander Hamilton

to act at a moment's warning, it would be extremely
hazardous to attempt to collect the citizens to sub-
due them, as the mutineers might have taken advan-
tage of the first confusion incident to the measure
to do a great deal of mischief before this militia
could have assembled in equal or superior force.

It is not to be denied that a small body of disci-
plined troops, headed and lead by their officers, with
a plan of conduct, could have effected a great deal
in similar circumstances; but it is equally certain
that nothing can be more contemptible than a body
of men used to be commanded and to obey, when
deprived of the example and direction of their
officers. They are infinitely less to be dreaded than
an equal number of men who have never been
broken to command, nor exchanged their natural
courage for that artificial kind which is the effect of
discipline and habit. Soldiers transfer their con-
fidence from themselves to their officers, face danger
by the force of example, the dread of pimishment,
and the sense of necessity. Take away these induce-
ments and leave them to themselves, they are no
longer resolute than till they are opposed.

In the present case it was to be relied upon that
the appearance of opposition would instantly bring
the mutineers to a sense of their insignificance and
to submission. Conscious of their weakness from
the smallness of their numbers, in a populous city
and in the midst of a populous country, awed by
the consequences of resisting government by arms,
and confounded by the want of proper leaders and
proper direction, the common soldiers would have

Private Correspondence 373

thought of nothing but making their peace by the
sacrifice of those who had been the authors of their
misconduct.

The idea, therefore, of coercion was the safest and
most prudent, for more was to be apprehended from
leaving them to their own passions than from at-
tempting to control them by force. It will be seen,
by and by, how far the events, justly appreciated,
correspond with this reasoning.

Congress were not only right in adopting measures
of coercion, but they were also right in resolving to
change their situation if proper exertions were not
made by the particular government and citizens of
the place where they resided. The want of such
exertions would evince some defect, no matter where,
that would prove they ought to have no confidence
in their situation. They were, to all intents and
purposes, in the power of a lawless, armed banditti,
enraged, whether justly or not, against them. How-
ever they might have had a right to expose their own
persons to insult and outrage, they had no right to
expose the character of representatives, or the dig-
nity of the States they represented, or of the Union.
It was plain they could not with propriety, in such
a state of things, proceed in their deliberations where
they were, and it was right they should repair to a
place where they could do it. It was far from im-
possible that the mutineers might have been in-
duced to seize their persons as hostages for their own
security, as well as with a hope of extorting conces-
sions. Had such an event taken place the whole
country would have exclaimed: Why did not Con-

374 Alexander Hamilton

gress withdraw from a place where they found they
could not be assured of support ; where the govern-
ment was so feeble, or the citizens so indisposed, as
to suffer three or four hundred mutinous soldiers to
violate, with impunity, the authority of the United
States and of their own State?

When they resolved to depart, on the want of ade-
quate exertions, they had reason to doubt their
being made, from the disinclination shown by the
Council to call out the militia in the first instance;
and when they did actually depart they were in-
formed by the Council that the efforts of the citizens
were not to be looked for, even from a repetition of
the outrage which had already happened, and it was
to be doubted what measure of outrage would pro-
duce them. They had also convincing proof that
the mutiny was more serious than it had even at
first appeared, by the participation of some of the
officers.

To throw the blame of harshness and precipitancy
upon Congress, it is said that their dignity was only
accidentally and undesignedly offended. Much stress
has been laid upon the message from the soldiery
being directed to the Council, and not to them. All
this, however, is very immaterial to the real merits
of the question. Whatever might have been the
first intention of the mutineers in this particular act,
whether it proceeded from artifice or confusion of
ideas, the indignity to Congress was the same. They
knew that Congress customarily held their delibera-
tions at the State House ; and if it even be admitted
that they knew Saturday to be a day of usual recess,

Private Correspondence 375

which, perhaps, is not altogether probable, when
they came to the place they saw and knew Congress
to be assembled there. They did not desist in con-
sequence of this, but proceeded to station their
guards and execute their purposes. Members of Con-
gress went out to them, remonstrated with them,
represented the danger of their proceedings to them-
selves, and desired them to withdraw ; but they per-
sisted till they obtained what they supposed a part
of their object. A majority of the same persons had,
some days before, sent a message, almost equally
exceptionable, to Congress; and at the time they
scarcely spoke of any other body than Congress, who,
indeed, may naturally be supposed to have been
the main object of their resentments: for Congress,
having always appeared to the soldiery to be the
body who contracted with them, and who had broken
faith with them, it is not to be supposed they were
capable of investigating the remote causes of the
failures, so as to transfer the odium from Congress
to the State.

But the substantial thing to be considered in this
question is the violation of public authority. It
cannot be disputed that the mutiny of troops is a
violation of that authority to which they owe obe-
dience. This was, in the present case, aggravated
to a high degree of atrociousness by the gross insult
to the government of Pennsylvania, in the face of
Congress and in defiance of their displeasure. It
was further aggravated by continuing in that condi-
tion for a series of time.

The reasons have been assigned that made it

3/6 Alexander Hamilton

incumbent upon Congress to interpose; and when
they called upon the State of Pennsylvania, not only
to vindicate its own rights, but to support their au-
thority, the declining a compliance was a breach of
the Confederation and of the duty which the State of
Pennsylvania owed to the United States. The best
apology for the government of Pennsylvania, in this
case, is that they could not command the services of
their citizens. But so improper a disposition in the
citizens, if admitted, must operate as an additional
justification to Congress in their removal.

The subsequent events, justly appreciated, illus-
trate the propriety of their conduct. The mutineers
did not make voluntary submissions in consequence
of negotiation, persuasion, or conviction. They did
not submit till after Congress had left the city, pub-
lishing their intentions of coercion; till after there
had been an actual call upon the militia; till their
leaders and instigators, alarmed by the approach of
force and the fear of being betrayed by the men,
fled. They were reduced by coercion, not overcome
by mildness.

It appears, too, that while they were professing
repentance and a return to their duty, they were
tampering with the troops at Yorktown and Lan-
caster to increase their strength, and that two
officers, at least, were concerned in the mutiny, who,
by their letters since, have confessed that some pro-
ject of importance was in contemplation.

The call for the militia was made the day after
it had been pronounced ineligible by the Council.
There could have been little change in that time,

Private Correspondence Z11

either in the temper or preparations of the citizens.
The truth is, that the departure of Congress brought
the matter to a crisis, and that the Council were com-
pelled by necessity to do what they ought to have
done before through choice.

It is to be lamented they did not, by an earlier
decision, prevent the necessity of Congress taking a
step which may have many disagreeable conse-
quences. They then would * * *

[The rest of the manuscript is lacking.]

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

Princetown, June 29, 1783

Dear Sir:

I am informed that among other disagreeable
things said about the removal of Congress from
Philadelphia, it is insinuated that it was a contriv-
ance of some members to get them out of the State
of Pennsylvania into one of those to which they
belonged; and I am told that this insinuation has
been pointed at me in particular.

Though I am persuaded that all disinterested
persons will justify Congress in quitting a place
where they were told they were not to expect sup-
port (for the conduct of the Council amounted to
that), yet I am unwilling to be held up as having
had an extraordinary agency in the measure for in-
terested purposes when the fact is directly the re-
verse. As you were a witness to my conduct and
opinions through the whole of the transaction, I am
induced to trouble you for your testimony upon this

37B Alexander Hamilton

occasion. I do not mean to make a public use of it,
but, through my friends, to vindicate myself from
the imputations I have mentioned.

I will therefore request your answers to the follow-
ing questions:

Did that part of the resolutions which related to
the removal of Congress originate with me or not ?

Did I, as a member of the committee, appear to
press the departure, or did I not rather manifest a
strong disposition to postpone that event as long as
possible, even against the general current of opinion?

I wish you to be as particular and full in your
answer as your memory will permit. I think you
will recollect that my idea was clearly this: That
the mutiny ought not to be terminated by negocia-
tion; that Congress were justifiable in leaving a
place where they did not receive the support which
they had a right to expect, but, as their removal was
a measure of a critical and delicate nature, might
have an ill appearance in Europe, and might, from
events, be susceptible of an unfavorable interpreta-
tion in this country, it was prudent to delay it till its
necessity became apparent; not only till it was
manifest there would be no change in the spirit
which seemed to actuate the Council, but till it was
evident complete stibmission was not to be expected
from the troops; that to give full time for this it
would be proper to delay the departure of Congress
till the latest period which would be compatible with
the idea of meeting at Trenton or Princeton on
Thursday — perhaps even till Thursday morning.

Private Correspondence 379

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

Philadelphia, July 6, 1783.

Dear Sir:

On my arrival in this city I am more convinced
than I was of the necessity of giving a just state of
fact to the pubhc. The current runs strongly against
Congress, and in a great measure for want of informa-
tion. When facts are explained they make an im-
pression, and incline to conclusions more favorable
to us.

I have no copy of the reports in my possession,
which puts it out of my power to publish them. Will
you procure and send me one without loss of time?
Without appearing, I intend to give them to the
public with some additional explanations. This done
with moderation will, no doubt, have a good effect.

The prevailing idea is, that the actors in the re-
moval of Congress were influenced by the desire of
getting them out of the city, and the generality of
the remainder by timidity — some say passion. Few
give a more favorable interpretation.

I will thank you in your letter to me to answer the
following question:

What appeared to be my ideas and disposition re-
specting the removal of Congress? Did I appear to
wish to hasten it, or did I not rather show a strong
disposition to procrastinate it?

I will be obliged to you in answering this question
to do it fully. I do not intend to make any public
use of it, but through my friends to vindicate myself
from the insinuation I have mentioned, and in that
to confute the supposition that the motive assigned

380 Alexander Hamilton

did actuate the members on whom it fell to be more
particularly active.

TO MRS. HAMILTON

Philadelphia, July 22, 1783.

I wrote you, my beloved Eliza, by the last post,
which I hope will not meet with the fate that many
others of my letters must have met with. I count
upon setting out to see you in four days, but I have
been so frequently disappointed by unforeseen events,
that I shall not be without apprehensions of being
detained, till I have begun my journey. The mem-
bers of Congress are very pressing with me not to
go away at this time, as the House is thin, and as the
definitive treaty is momently expected.

Tell your father that Mr. Rivington,' in a letter
to the South Carolina delegates, has given informa-
tion, coming to him from Admiral Arbuthnot, that
the Mercury frigate is arrived at New York with the
definitive treaty, and that the city was to be evacu-
ated yesterday by the treaty.

I am strongly urged to stay a few days for the
ratification of the treaty; at all events, however, I
will not be long absent.

I give you joy of the happy conclusion of this im-
portant work in which your coimtry has been en-
gaged. Now, in a very short time, I hope we shall
be happily settled in New York.

My love to your father. Kiss my boy a thousand
times.

I Probably the well known New York publisher of that name.

Private Correspondence 381

TO JOHN JAY

Philadelphia, July 25, 1783.

Dear Sir:

Though I have not performed my promise of
writing to you which I made you when you left this
country, yet I have not the less interested myself in
your welfare and success. I have been witness with
pleasure to every event which has had a tendency
to advance you in the esteem of your country, and
I may assure you with sincerity that it is as high as
you could possibly wish. All have united in the
warmest approbation of your conduct. I cannot
forbear telling you this, because my situation has
given me access to the truth, and I gratify my
friendship for you in communicating what cannot
fail to gratify your sensibility.

The peace, which exceeds in the goodness of its
terms the expectations of the most sanguine, does
the highest honor to those who made it. It is the
more agreeable, as the time was come when thinking
men began to be seriously alarmed at the internal
embarrassments and exhausted state of this country.
The New England people talk of making you an
annual fish-offering, as an acknowledgment of your
exertions for the participation of the fisheries. We
have now happily concluded the great work of inde-
pendence, but much remains to be done to reap the
fruits of it. Our prospects are not flattering. Every
day proves the inefficiency of the present Confedera-
tion ; yet the common danger being removed, we are
receding instead of advancing in a disposition to
amend its defects. The road to popularity in each

382 Alexander Hamilton

State is to inspire jealousies of the power of Con-
gress, though nothing can be more apparent than
that they have no power; and that for the want of
it, the resources of the country during the war could
not be drawn out, and we at this moment experience
all the mischiefs of a bankrupt and ruined credit. It
is to be hoped that when prejudice and folly have
nm themselves out of breath, we may return to
reason and correct our errors. After having served
in the field during the war, I have been making a
short apprenticeship in Congress, but the evacuation
of New York approaching, I am preparing to take
leave of public life, to enter into the practice of the
law. Your country will continue to demand your
services abroad. I beg you to present me most re-
spectfully to Mrs. Jay, and to be assured, etc.^

TO GOVERNOR CLINTON

Princeton, July 27, 1783.

Sir:

A few days since I was honored with your Ex-
cellency's letter of the ; and was glad to find

your ideas on the subject corresponded with mine.

As I shall, in a day or two, take leave of Congress,
I think it my duty to give my opinion to the Legis-
lature on a matter of importance to the State, which
has been long depending, and is still without a pros-
pect of termination in the train in which it has been
placed. I mean the affair of the Grants."" It is

' Reprinted from W. Jay's Life of John Jay, ii., 122.
2 This refers to the dispute as to the territory now forming the State
of Vermont.

Private Correspondence 3^3

hazardous to pass a positive judgment on what will
happen in a body so mutable as that of Congress;
but, from all I have seen, I have come to a settled
opinion that no determination will be taken and
executed by them in any other manner than in that
prescribed by the Confederation. There is always
such a diversity of views and interests, so many
compromises to be made between different States,
that, in a question of this nature, the embarrass-
ments of which have been increased by the steps
that have preceded, and in which the passions of the
opposite sides have taken a warm part, decision
must be the result of necessity. While Congress
have a discretion, they will procrastinate; when
they are bound by the Constitution, they must
proceed.

It is therefore my opinion that it will be advisable
for the Legislature, when they meet, to review the
question, and either to relinquish their pretensions
to the country in dispute, or to instruct their dele-
gates, if a decision is not had within a limited time,
to declare the submission to Congress revoked, and
to institute a claim according to the principles of the
Confederation.

It would be out of my province to discuss which
side of the alternate ought in policy to prevail, but
I will take the liberty to observe, that if the last
should be preferred, it would be expedient to remove
every motive of opposition from private claims, not
only by confirming in their full latitude, previous to
the trial, the possessions of the original settlers, but
even the grants of the usurped government. It

3^4 Alexander Hamilton

may happen that it will be eventually necessary
to employ force, and in this case it would be of
great importance that neither the inhabitants of the
Grants, nor powerful individuals in other States,
should find their private interest in contradiction to
that of the State. This has already had great in-
fluence in counteracting our wishes, would continue
to throw impediments in the way of ulterior measures,
and might at last kindle a serious flame between the
States.

I communicated to your Excellency, in a former
letter, that I had declined pressing the application
of the Legislature to Congress respecting the State
troops for garrisoning the frontier posts, because
temporary provision had been made in another way
which would save the State the immediate expense,
and because there was a prospect of some general
provision for the defence of the frontiers on a Conti-
nental establishment, which was to be preferred on
every account. A report for this purpose is now
before Congress, but the thinness of representation
has for some time retarded, and still retards, its
consideration.

The definitive treaty is not yet arrived, but
from accotmts which, though not official, appear to
deserve credit, it may be daily expected. A gentle-
man known and confided in, has arrived at Phila-
delphia, who informs that he saw a letter from Dr.
Franklin to Mr. Barkeley, telling him that the defini-
tive treaties were signed the 27 th of May between
all the parties ; that New York was to be evacuated
in six months from the ratification of the prelimi-

Private Correspondence 3^5

naries in Europe, which will be the 12th or 15th of
next month.

As it is not my intention to return to Congress, I
take this opportunity to make my respectful ac-
knowledgements to the Legislature for the honorable
mark of their confidence conferred upon me by hav-
ing chosen me to represent the State in that body.
I shall be happy if my conduct has been agreeable to
them.

TO WASHINGTON

Albany, September 30, 1783.

Dear Sir:

As I flatter myself I may indulge a consciousness
that my services have been of some value to the
public, at least enough to merit the small compensa-
tion I wish, I will make no apology to your Excel-
lency for conveying, through you, that wish to
Congress. You are able to inform them, if they
wish information, in what degree I may have been
useful ; and I have entire confidence that you will do
me justice.

In a letter which I wrote to you several months
ago, I intimated that it might be in your power
to contribute to the establishment of our Federal
Union upon a more solid basis. I have never since
explained myself. At the time, I was in hopes Con-
gress might have been induced to take a decisive
ground; to inform their constituents of the imper-
fections of the present system, and of the impossi-
bility of conducting the public affairs, with honor to

VOL. IX.— 25.

386 Alexander Hamilton

themselves and advantage to the community, with
powers so disproportioned to their responsibility;
and, having done this, in a fiill and forcible manner,
to adjourn the moment the definitive treaty was
ratified. In retiring at the same jimcture, I wished
you, in a solemn manner, to declare to the people
your intended retreat from public concerns, your
opinion of the present government, and of the abso-
lute necessity of a change.

Before I left Congress I despaired of the first, and
your circular-letter to the States had anticipated the
last. I trust it will not be without effect, though I
am persuaded it would have had more, combined
with what I have mentioned. At all events, without
compliment, sir, it will do you honor with the sen-
sible and well-meaning; and, ultimately, it is to be
hoped, with the people at large, when the present
epidemic frenzy has subsided.

Mrs. Hamilton presents her compliments to Mrs.
Washington.

I beg the favor of your Excellency to forward the
enclosed to General Greene.

TO WASHINGTON

Albany, September 30,1783.

Sir:

I think I may address the subject of this letter to
your Excellency with more propriety than to any
other person, as it is purely of a military nature, as
you are best acquainted with my services as an
officer, and as you are now engaged in assisting to

Private Correspondence 3^7

form the arrangements for the future peace establish-
ment.

Your Excellency knows that in March, '82, I re-
linquished all claim to any future compensation for
my services, either during the residue of the war, or
after its conclusion — simply retaining my rank. On
this foundation I build a hope that I may be per-
mitted to preserve my rank, on the peace establish-
ment, without emoluments and unattached to any
corps — as an honorary reward for the time I have
devoted to the public. As I may hereafter travel,
I may find it an agreeable circumstance to appear in
the character I have supported in the Revolution.

I rest my claim solely on the sacrifice I have made,
because I have no reason to believe that my services
have appeared of any value to Congress, as they de-
clined giving them any marks of their notice, on an
occasion which appeared to my friends to entitle me
to it, as well by the common practice of sovereigns
as by the particular practice of this coimtry in re-
peated instances.

Your Excellency will recollect that it was my lot
at York Town to command, as senior officer, a suc-
cessful attack upon one of the enemy's redoubts;
that the officer who acted in a similar capacity in
another attack, made at the same time, by the French
troops, has been handsomely distinguished in con-
sequence of it by the government to which he be-
longs; and that there are several examples among
us where Congress have bestowed honors upon ac-
tions, perhaps not more useful, nor apparently more
hazardous.

388 Alexander Hamilton

These observations are inapplicable to the present
Congress, further than as they may possibly furnish
an additional motive to a compliance with my wish.

The only thing I ask of your Excellency is, that
my application may come into view in the course of
the consultations on the peace establishment.

TO GOVERNOR CLINTON

Albany, October 3, 1783.

Sir:

I have lately received, from Messrs. Duane and
L'Hommedieu, an extract of a letter from your Ex-
cellency to the delegates, of the 23d of August last,
requesting " a particular detail of the motives which
influenced the determination of Congress ' ' respecting
the application of the Legislature to have their State
troops released from Continental pay, for the pur-
pose of garrisoning the frontier posts.

In my letters to your Excellency of the first of
June and twenty-seventh of July, which were in-
tended to be official, I summarily informed you that
Congress had made temporary provision for garri-
soning the frontier posts, and that a plan was under
deliberation relative to a peace establishment, which
would, of course, embrace that object permanently;
that such temporary provision being made at the
common expense, and a general plan being under
consideration for the future, I had declined pressing
a compliance with the application of the Legislature ;
conceiving it to be more for the interest of the State

Private Correspondence 3^9

that the expense should be jointly borne, than that
it should fall exclusively upon itself.

I did not enter into a more full detail upon the
subject, because the business continued, to the time
I left Congress, in an undecided state, and it was im-
possible to judge what views would finally prevail.

The concurrent resolutions of the two Houses had
been, immediately on their receipt, referred to a
committee appointed to report on a peace establish-
ment, who had suspended their report on these reso-
lutions until it should appear what would be the fate
of a general plan which had been submitted.

As to the motives that influenced Congress in
making the provision they did make, rather than
immediately assenting to the application of the
State, as far as I was able to collect them, they were
these: The opinions of many were unsettled as to
the most eligible mode of providing for the security
of the frontiers consistent with the Constitution, as
well with respect to the general policy of the Union,
as to considerations of justice to those States whose
frontiers were more immediately exposed. A con-
siderable part of the House appeared to think, from
reasons of a very cogent nature, that the well-being
of the Union required a federal provision for the
security of the different parts, and that it would be
a great hardship to individual States peculiarly cir-
cumstanced to throw the whole burthen of expense
upon them by recurring to separate provisions in a
matter, the benefit of which would be immediately
shared by their neighbors, and ultimately by the
Union at large; that indeed it was not probable

390 Alexander Hamilton

particular States would be either able or, upon experi-
ment, willing to make competent provision at their
separate expense, and that the principle might
eventually excite jealousies between the States un-
friendly to the common tranquillity.

I freely confess I was one who held this opinion.

Questions naturally arose as to the true construc-
tion of the articles of Confederation upon this head;
questions as delicate, as interesting, and as difficult
of solution.

On one hand it was doubted whether Congress
were authorized by the Confederation to proceed
upon the idea of a federal provision; on the other, it
was perceived that such a contrary construction
would be dangerous to the Union, including, among
other inconveniences, this consequence, that the
United States, in Congress, cannot raise a single
regiment, nor equip a single ship, for the general
defence, till after the declaration of war, or an
actual commencement of hostilities.

In this dilemma, on an important constitutional
question, other urgent matters depending before
Congress, and the advanced season requiring a de-
termination upon the mode of securing the Western
posts in case of a surrender this fall, all sides of the
House concurred in making a temporary provision,
in the manner which has been communicated.

My apprehension of the views of the Legislature
was simply this: That, looking forward to a sur-
render of the posts, and conceiving, from some
expressions in the articles of Confederation, that
separate provision was to be made for the frontier

Private Correspondence 39 ^

garrisons, they had thought it expedient to apply
the troops already on foot to that purpose, and to
propose to Congress to give their sanction to it.

Under this apprehension, reflecting besides, that
those troops were engaged only for a short period,
upon a very improper establishment to continue, on
account of the enormous pay to the private men,
and that the expense which is now shared by all, and
which would have fallen solely upon the State had the
application been complied with, would probably be
at the rate of nearly eighty thousand dollars per an-
num, a considerable sum for the State in its present
situation — I acknowledge to your Excellency that I
saw with pleasure, rather than regret, the turn which
the affair took. I shall be sorry, however, if it has
contravened the intentions of the Legislature.

I will take the liberty to add upon this occasion
that it has always appeared to me of great impor-
tance, to this State in particular as well as to the
Union in general, that Federal rather than State
provision should be made for the defence of every
part of the Confederacy, in peace as well as in war.

Without entering into arguments of general policy,
it will be sufficient to observe that this State is in
all respects critically situated.

Its relative position, shape, and intersections,
viewed on the map, strongly speak this language:
Strengthen the Confederation; give it exclusively
the power of the sword; let each State have no
forces but its militia.

As a question of mere economy, the following con-
siderations deserve great weight:

392 Alexander Hamilton

The North River facilitates attacks by sea and by
land; and, besides the frontier forts, all military
men are of opinion that a strong post should be
maintained at West Point, or some other position on
the lower part of the river.

If Canada is well governed, it may become well
peopled, and by inhabitants attached to its govern-
ment. The British nation, while it preserves the
idea of retaining possession of that countr}^ may be
expected to keep on foot there a large force. The
position of that force, either for defence or offence,
will necessarily be such as will afford a prompt and
easy access to us.

Our precautions for defence must be proportioned
to their means of annoying us, and we may here-
after find it indispensable to increase our frontier
garrisons.

The present charge of a competent force in that
quarter, thrown additionally into the scale of those
contributions which we must make to the payment
of the public debt and to other objects of general ex-
pense if the Union lasts, would, I fear, enlarge our
burden beyond our ability: that charge, hereafter
increased as it may be, would be oppressively felt by
the people. It includes not only the expense of pay-
ing and subsisting the necessary number of troops,
but of keeping the fortifications in repair, probably
of erecting others, and of furnishing the requisite
supplies of military stores. I say nothing of the In-
dian nations, because, though it will be always pru-
dent to be upon our guard against them, yet I am of
opinion we diminish the necessity of it by making

Private Correspondence 393

them our friends; and I take it for granted there
cannot be a serious doubt anywhere as to the ob-
vious poHcy of endeavoring to do it. Their friend-
ship alone can keep our frontiers in peace. It is
essential to the improvement of the fur trade; an
object of immense importance to the State. The
attempt at the total expulsion of so desultory a
people is as chimerical as it would be pernicious.
War with them is as expensive as it is destructive.
It has not a single object, for the acquisition of their
lands is not to be wished till those now vacant are
settled; and the surest, as well as the most just and
humane way of removing them, is by extending our
settlements to their neighborhood.

Indeed, it is not impossible they may be already
willing to exchange their former possessions for
others more remote.

The foregoing considerations would lose all force
if we had full security that the rest of the world
would make our safety and prosperity the first ob-
ject of their reverence and care ; but an expectation
of this kind would be too much against the ordinary
course of human affairs — too visionary to be a rule
for national conduct.

It is true our situation secures us from conquest,
if internal dissensions do not open the way; but
when nations now make war upon each other, the
object seldom is total conquest — partial acquisitions,
the jealousy of power, the rivalship of dominion or
of commerce, sometimes national emulation and
antipathy, are the motives.

Nothing shelters us from the operation of either

394 Alexander Hamilton

of these causes. The fisheries, the fur trade, the
navigation of the lakes and of the Mississippi, the
Western territory, the islands of the West Indies,
with reference to traffic, — in short, the passions of
human nature, are abundant sources of contention
and hostility.

I will not trespass further on your Excellency's
patience. I expected indeed that my last letter
would have finished my official commimications, but
Messrs. Duane and L'Hommedieu having trans-
mitted the extract of your letter to Mr. Floyd and
myself, in order that we might comply with what
your Excellency thought would be expected by the
Legislature, it became my duty to give this explana-
tion. Mr. Floyd having been at Congress but a
little time after the concurrent resolutions arrived,
and being now at a great distance from me, occa-
sions a separate communication.

N. B. — I did not at the time enclose the resolution
directing the General to provide for garrisoning the
frontier posts, because I understood it would in
course be transmitted to you by the President or the
Secretary at War.

TO THE HONORABLE THOMAS MIFFLIN, PRESIDENT OF

CONGRESS

New York, Dec. 8, 1783.

Sir:

Being concerned as counsel for a number of persons
who have been, since the annunciation of the pro-

Private Correspondence 395

visional treaty, indicted under the confiscation laws
of this State for the part they are supposed to have
taken in the late war, we are induced, at the desire
of our clients and in their behalf, to apply to Con-
gress, through your Excellency, for an exemplifica-
tion of the definitive treaty. We take it for granted
that ere this it will have been [done under the] direc-
tion of the United States. We have found a great
strictness in the courts in this State. It will, we ap-
prehend, be necessary to be able to produce an ex-
emplification of the treaty under the seal of the
United States. In a matter so interesting to a great
number of individuals — for it does not belong to us
to urge considerations of national honor, — we hope
we shall be excused when we observe that there
appears to be no probability that the Legislature of
this State will interpose its authority to put a stop
to prosecutions till the definitive treaty is announced
in form. In the mean time a period is limited for
the appearance of the indicted persons to plead to
their indictments, and if they neglect to appear,
judgment by default will be entered against them.
It is therefore of great consequence to them that we
should have in our possession as speedily as possible
an authentic document of the treaty and of its rati-
fication by Congress ; and we, on this account, pray
an exemplification of both.

We persuade ourselves that the justice and liberal-
ity of Congress will induce a ready compliance with
our prayer, which will conduce to the security of a
great number of individuals who derive their hopes
of safety from the national faith.

39^ Alexander Hamilton

TO JOHN BARKER CHURCH *

New York, March lo, 1784.

My Dear Sir:

In my last to you I informed you that a project
for a land bank had been set on foot by Mr. Sayre
as the ostensible parent, but I had reason to suspect
the Chancellor " was the true father. The fact has
turned out as I supposed, and the Chancellor, with
a number of others, has since petitioned the Legis-
lature for an exclusive charter for the proposed bank.
I thought it necessary not only with a view to your
project, but for the sake of the commercial interests
of the State, to start an opposition to this scheme and
took occasion to point out its absurdity and incon-
venience to some of the most intelligent merchants,
who presently saw the matter in a proper light and
began to take measures to defeat the plan.

The Chancellor had taken so much pains with
the country members that they all began to be per-

^ John Barker Church, who married Angelica Schuyler, the sister
of Mrs. Hamilton, was an Englishman by birth: and Lossing ( Life of
Schuyler, ii., p. 207) says that his name was Carter, and that he added
the Church in this country and dropped it when on a visit to England.
There is also a letter signed John Carter, addressed to Hamilton, and
dated May 18, 1781, which seems to confirm Lossing. Yet there can
be no doubt that here he was known as John Barker Church, because
he is so described by Hamilton in a letter to Troup about his will, and
Mr. Geo. L. Schuyler, of New York, very kindly writes me that Church
was called John Barker in the will of Mr. Schuyler's grandfather, Gen.
Schuyler. Church was associated with Col. Wadsworth in furnishing
supplies to the French and American armies. Some time after his
marriage, according to Lossing, he returned to England, became a
member of Parliament, went much into society, and was a friend of
the Prince of Wales and in the Carlton House set. He finally returned
to New York where he remained until his death at an advanced age.

* The Chancellor was Robert R. Livingston.

Private Correspondence 397

suaded that the land bank was the true philosopher's
stone that was to turn all their rocks and trees into
gold, and there was great reason to apprehend a
majority of the Legislature would have adopted his
views. It became necessary to convince the pro-
jectors themselves of the impracticability of their
scheme, and to counteract the impressions they had
made by a direct application to the Legislature.
Some of the merchants, to effect these purposes, set
on foot a subscription for a money bank, and called
upon me to subscribe. I was a little embarrassed
how to act, but upon the whole I concluded it best
to fall in with them, and endeavor to induce them to
put the business upon such a footing as might enable
you with advantage to combine your interests with
theirs; for since the thing had been taken up upon
the broad footing of the whole body of the mer-
chants, it appeared to me that it never would be
your interest to pursue a distinct project in opposi-
tion to theirs, but that you would prefer, so far as
you might choose to employ money in this way, to
become purchasers in the general bank. The ob-
ject, on this supposition, was to have the bank
founded on such principles as would give you a
proper weight in the direction. Unluckily for this
purpose I entered rather late into the measure. Pro-
posals had been agreed upon, in which, among other
things, it was settled that no stockholder, to what-
ever amount, should have more than seven votes,
which was the number to which a holder of ten shares
was to be entitled. At an after meeting of some of
the most influential characters, I engaged them so

398 Alexander Hamilton

far to depart from this ground as to allow a vote for
every five shares above ten.

The stockholders have since thought proper to
appoint me one of the directors.' I shall hold it till
Wadsworth and you come out, and if you choose to
become partners in this bank I shall make a vacancy
for one of you. I inclose you the constitution and
the names of the president, directors, and cashier.

An application for a charter has been made to the
Legislature, with a petition against granting an ex-
clusive one to the land bank. The measures which
have been taken appear to have had their effect upon
the minds of the partisans of the land bank.

The affairs of the bank in Pennsylvania appear
to be in some confusion. They have stopped dis-
counts; but I have no apprehension that there is
any thing more in the matter than temporary em-
barrassment, from having a little overshot their
mark in their issues of paper, and from the opposition
which the attempt to establish a new bank had
produced.

I have had no tolerable offer for your land in
Connecticut, — forty shilHngs, and that currency, per
acre has been the highest, but I have written to Mr.
Campfield, requesting him to inform himself well of
the value of the land, and if he thinks it is not worth
more, to accept the offer. I am told he is a judicious
and honest man ; and I presume the land where it is
will never be worth any thing to you if it remains
unsold. Betsy joins me in best affections to Mrs. C.
and yourself.

' This bank thus formed was the Bank of New York.

Private Correspondence 399

TO THOMAS FITZSIMMONS ^

New York, March 21, 1784.

Dear Sir:

Permit me to introduce to yoiir acquaintance and
attention Mr. Seton, Cashier of the Bank of New
York. He is just setting out for Philadelphia to
procure materials and information in the forms of
business. I recommend him to you, because I am
persuaded you will with pleasure facilitate his object.
Personally, I dare say you will be pleased with him.

He will tell you of our embarrassments and pro-
spects. I hope an incorporation of the two banks,
which is evidently the interest of both, has put an
end to differences in Philadelphia. Here a wild and
impracticable scheme of a land bank stands in our
way; the projectors of it persevering in spite of the
experience they have, that all the mercantile and
moneyed influence is against it.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

New York, March 21, 1784.

I duly received, my dear sir, your letter of the
27th of January, and I would have sooner told you
how much pleasure it gave me, if I had had time, but
legislative folly has afforded so plentiful a harvest
to us lawyers that we have scarcely a moment to
spare from the substantial business of reaping. To-
day being Sunday, I have resolved to give an hour

' Thomas Fitzsimmons, an eminent merchant of Philadelphia, was
after a leading member of Congress and always a stanch supporter and
friend of Hamilton.

400 Alexander Hamilton

to friendship and to you. Good people would say
that I had much better be paying my devotions to
the great "■

:ic H: H: H< He H:

devotions I mean ; for with so lively an imagination
as yours it is necessary to be explicit, lest you should
be for making a different association that would not
suit me quite as well.

To say that I was amused with your letter was to
say what must have happened of course; a good
theme in good hands could not fail to be amusing.
The coalition you mention is not to be wondered at,
though in a political light it is whimsical enough;
but the meeting of extremes at the same point is a
common case. I expect in another year to see our
political antipodes in this city shaking hands, but
whenever it happens it will not affect me as it seems
to have done you in the instance you mention, be-
cause probably I shall not have the same reasons. —
To be serious :

The erection of a new bank in Philadelphia does
not appear to me an evil to the community. The
competition may indeed render the large profits of
the old bank less permanent, but they will always
remain considerable enough; and the competition
will cause business to be done on easier and better
terms in each, to the advancement of trade in gen-
eral. If I reason wrong, correct me. That a stock-
holder of the old bank should feel his interest
wounded, that those who have made their property in
it subservient in some measure to the support of the

I There is a slice cut out of the body of the letter here.

Private Correspondence 401

Revolution should feel a degree of indignation at the
kind of rivalship which has started up, are both nat-
ural sensations ; but that large profits should produce
rivalship, that men in a matter of this kind should
employ their money where they expect the greatest
advantage and the cheapest market in purchasing '

second bank has been established, I think you will, on
reflection, agree with me that they ought to wish to
be interested in both the institutions, and that there-
fore it is the duty of those who have the laying out
of their money to purchase in the new bank, on the
principle I have hinted at as well as the circum-
stances of a lower price. The whole of this business,
my dear friend, is a mere mercantile speculation, and
I am sure when there has been time to cool down the
considerate proprietors of the old bank will blame
nobody for adventuring upon mere mercantile prin-
ciples. To you I need not say that it is chimerical
to expect any other will prevail.

Were I to advise upon this occasion, it would be
as soon as possible to bring about a marriage or,
perhaps what you will prefer, an intrigue between
the old bank and the new. Let the latter be the
wife or, still to pursue your propensity, the mistress
of the former. As a mistress (or, you 11 say a wife)
it is to be expected she will every now and then be
capricious and inconstant; but in the main it will
be the interest of both husband and wife that they
should live well together and manage their affairs with
good humor and concert. If they quarrel they will not

I MS. cut.

VOL. IX— a6.

402 Alexander Hamilton

only expose themselves to the gibes of their neighbors,
but the more knowing part of these will endeavor to
keep them by the ears in order to make the favors
of each more cheap and more easily attainable.

I ought, in return, to give you an account of what
we are doing here, but I will, in the lump, tell you
that we are doing those things which we ought not
to do, and leaving undone those things which we
ought to do. Instead of wholesome regulations for
the improvement of our polity and commerce, we
are laboring to contrive methods to mortify and
punish Tories and to explain away treaties.

Let us both erect a temple to time, only regretting
that we shall not command a longer portion of it to
see what will be the event of the American drama. '

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

New York, April 7, 1784.

Pardon me, my dear sir, for not sooner having
obeyed your orders with respect to the enclosed. I
part with it reluctantly; for wit is so rare an article,
that when we get so much of it in so small a compass
we cannot easily consent to be dispossessed of it. I
am very happy to hear of the union of your two
banks, for you will believe me when I tell that on
more deliberate consideration I was led to view the
competition in a different light from that in which
it at first struck me. I had no doubt that it was
against the interests of the proprietors, but on a super-

' Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

Private Correspondence 403

ficial view I perceived benefits to the community , which
on a more close inspection I found were not real.

You will call our proceedings here strange doings.
If some folks were paid to counteract the prosperity
of the State, they could not take more effectual
measures than they do. But it is in vain to at-
tempt to kick against the pricks.

Discrimination bills, partial taxes, schemes to en-
gross public property in the hands of those who have
present power, to banish the real wealth of the State,
and to substitute paper bubbles, are the only dishes
that suit the public palate at this time.

Permit me to ask your opinion on a point of im-
portance to the New York Bank — the best mode of
receiving and paying out gold. I am aware of the
evils of that which has been practised upon in Phila-
delphia— weighing in quantities — but I cannot satisfy
myself about a substitute, unless there could be a
coinage.

Favor me with your sentiments on this subject as
soon as you can.

TO DE CHASTELLUX '

New York, June 14, 1784.

Monsieur Le Chevalier:

Colonel Clarkson,^ who will have the honor of

' Francois Jean, Marquis de Chastellux, was one of the most dis-
tinguished of our French alHes; he was bom in 1734, and died in 1788.
He was something of a Hterary man, and left, among other works, an
entertaining accoimt of his adventures in this coimtry. He became
Marquis in the year 1784.

2 Colonel Matthew Clarkson, of New York, a distinguished officer of
the Revolution, born in 1759; died in 1825. He was aid-de-camp to
General Gates, and severely woimded at the battle of Stillwater.

404 Alexander Hamilton

delivering you this, being already known to you, I give
him this letter more for the sake of renewing to you
the assurances of my attachment and esteem, than
from a supposition that he will stand in need of any
new title to your attention. I will therefore only
say of him that his excellent qualities cannot be
known without interesting those to whom they are
known, and that from a personal and warm regard
for him, I should be happy, if any thing I could say,
could be an additional motive for your coimtenance
and civilities to him.

I speak of him in the light of a friend. As a mes-
senger of science, he cannot fail to acquire the
patronage of one of her favorite ministers. He com-
bines with the views of private satisfaction, which a
voyage to Europe cannot but afford, an imdertaking
for the benefit of a seminary of learning, lately in-
stituted in this State.

Learning is the common concern of mankind;
and why may not poor republicans, who can do
little more than wish her well, send abroad to solicit
the favor of her patrons and friends? Her ambas-
sador will tell you his errand. I leave it to your
mistress to command and to the trustees of the in-
stitution to ask your permission in promoting his
mission.

Permit me only to add that if there is any thing in
this country by which I can contribute to your satis-
faction, nothing will make me happier at all times
than that your commands may enable me to give you
proofs of the respectful and affectionate attachment
with which, etc.

Private Correspondence 405

TO HIS BROTHER, JAMES HAMILTON — ST. THOMAS

New York, Jtine 23, 1785.

My Dear Brother:

I have received your letter of the 31st of May
last, which and one other are the only letters I have
received from you in many years. You did not re-
ceive one which I wrote to you about six months ago.
The situation you describe yourself to be in gives me
much pain, and nothing will make me happier than,
as far as may be in my power, to contribute to your
relief. I will cheerfully pay your draft upon me
for fifty pounds sterling whenever it shall appear. I
wish it was in my power to desire you to enlarge the
sum; but, though my future prospects are of the
most flattering kind, my present engagements would
render it inconvenient to me to advance a larger
sum. My affection for you, however, will not permit
me to be inattentive to your welfare, and I hope
time will prove to you that I feel all the sentiments
of a brother. Let me only to request of you to exert
your industry for a year or two more where you are,
and at the end of that time I promise myself to be
able to invite you to a more comfortable settlement
in this country. But what has become of our dear
father? It is an age since I have heard from him, or
of him, though I have written him several letters.
Perhaps, alas, he is no more, and I shall not have the
pleasing opportunity of contributing to render the
close of his life more happy than the progress of it.
My heart bleeds at the recollection of his misfortunes
and embarrassments. Sometimes I flatter myself his
brothers have extended their support to him, and

4o6 Alexander Hamilton

that he now enjoys tranquillity and ease. At other
times I fear he is suffering in indigence. Should he
be alive, inform him of my inquiries; beg him to
write to me, and tell him how ready I shall be to de-
vote myself and all I have to his accommodation and
happiness. I do not advise your coming to this
country at present, for the war has also put things
out of order here, and people in your business find a
subsistence difficult enough. My object will be, by
and by, to get you settled on a farm.'

TO ISRAEL WILKES ^

November 8, 1785.

Sir:

The message which you sent me yesterday, and
your letter today, were conceived in terms to which

' Reprinted from the Reminiscences of J as. A. Hamilton, p. 2.

^ This letter is given in the edition of 1850 as addressed to John
Wilkes, but as he was never in this country, the first sentence, "the
message which you sent me yesterday and your letter today," shows
that it could not have been written to John Wilkes, but must have been
addressed to some one in New York. The following letter, now first
printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Department, throws
light on the subject:

TO .

New York, June 18, 1784.
Sir:

I have been duly honored with your letter of the 30th of March,
and am much flattered by the confidence you have reposed in me. I
should with pleasure have undertaken to execute your wishes had I
been in a situation that left me at liberty to do it ; but it has happened
that Mr. Wilkes, some time since, applied to me on the same subject ; and
though I was not absolutely retained by him, yet as I have been con-
sulted on the business, I should conceive it improper to act against
him. In this dilemma, as you were at a great distance, and he might
elude your pursuit before you could make a new choice of a person to
manage the affair for you, I thought it my duty to transfer the trust
to some person on the spot, to whose judgment and integrity your

Private Correspondence 407

I am little accustomed. Were I to consult my feel-
ings only upon the occasion, I should return an an-
swer very different from that which I have, in justice
to my own conduct, resolved upon. But in what-

interests might be safely committed. I have fixed upon Mr. Samuel
Jones ' for this purpose, a gentleman as distinguished for his probity
as for his professional knowledge, and have accordingly substituted
him in my place.

He has had Mr. Wilkes arrested upon your demand, who, not being
able to obtain bail, is of course, in prison. This has been done in
pursuance of your intimation that Mr. Wilkes' friends are able to do
something for him; and it is to be hoped that, rather than suffer him
to be in jail, they will either satisfy or become bound for at least a
part of your demand. This seems to be your only resource; for he
has no property in this country, and has been of late in no way of
acqtiiring any.

He did not (as you had been informed) accompany Mrs. Hayley ^
to this country; but it is reported that she has lately arrived at
Boston.

I am requested by Mr. Jones to mention to you that it will be
necessary you should furnish him with the account of sales rendered
by Mr. Wilkes, and, at the same time, with the bills of exchange which
he accepted. He wishes to be possessed of these as evidence in case
of a controverted suit. You mention that the bills of exchange were
sent to New York, but you do not say to whom. On tracing the mat-
ter, we have reason to conclude they were sent to Mr. McAdam; but
as he is now in England, we cannot have recourse to him to obtain
them. Circumstanced as I am, I must now take leave of this business,
without acting hereafter on either side.

But as a just representation of facts is always most conducive to the
settlement of disputes, and may enable you the better to judge what
course it will be proper for you to pursue, I think it incumbent upon
me, from the confidence you have been pleased to repose in me, to
inform you that I have taken pains to ascertain the quality and con-

^ Afterwards Chief Justice of New York, called "the father of the
New York Bar," and a very eminent lawyer.

2 Mary Wilkes, youngest sister of the famous agitator, married, first,
Samuel Stork, merchant, of London; second, George Hayley, alder-
man. After the death of Mr. Hayley she came to this country, and
remained for some time, chiefly in Boston, where she married her
third husband, Mr. Jeffreys, with whom she returned to London in
1803.

4o8 Alexander Hamilton

ever light we are to view each other hereafter, and
however harsh and indelicate I may think the method
you have taken to obtain an explanation to be, I
shall, for my own part, leave no room to suppose

dition of the wines of both cargoes on their arrival in this cotintry ; and
the result of my inquiries of gentlemen who could not be mistaken in
the matter, and on whose veracity I can depend, has been that the
wine of the second, as well as the first, cargo was in general either
damaged or of indifferent quality, and necessarily sold at very low
rates.

I am inclined to suspect that Mr. Wilkes' intention will be to en-
deavor to procure an act of insolvency in his favor at the next meeting
of the Legislature (continuing in the meantime in confinement), and
that he will in this expectation rather discourage his friends from
becoming sureties for him.

I think, with proper management on the part of those concerned for
you, it will be very difficult for him to succeed in this scheme; but
moderation in your behalf will be best calculated to frustrate the
experiment, and lay him under a necessity of calling in the aid of his
friends.

I persuade myself you will do justice to the motives of these intima-
tions, and, though I have it not in my power to serve you upon the
present occasion, will permit me to make you an offer of my best
services upon every other, and to assure you that I am, with much
consideration and esteem, etc.^

I This letter has no address, but is evidently written to some one in
England who wished to retain Hamilton as counsel. The allusion to
Mrs. Hayley makes it clear that the Mr. Wilkes to whom the letter in
the text was addressed was of the agitator's family, while the letter
just given shows that it could not have been John Wilkes, as Mr. J. C.
Hamilton has it, because an eminent New York lawyer could not have
arrested and put in prison in New York a man who was never in this
country. It is plain, therefore, that the Mr. Wilkes intended was the
eldest brother of the agitator, Israel Wilkes, who came to New York
at quite an early age and, with the exception of occasional visits to
England, remained there until his death in his eighty-first year. It is
impossible now to unravel the details of the affair, and as it was purely
a matter of business the letters might have been omitted had not Mr.
J. C. Hamilton seen fit to print one of them with what must be a wrong
address. I have not been able to determine, or even guess at, Hamil-
ton's would-be chent. It may be that he was the Mr. Macaulay
mentioned in the letter in the text, but that helps us but little. Mrs.

Private Correspondence 409

that I intentionally gave you any cause to com-
plain. I shall, therefore, explicitly declare, that

Macaulay, the historian, was in intimate relation with the Wilkes
family, and is constantly mentioned in the letters of John Wilkes and
his daughter, but her husband was not Mr. but Dr. Macaulay. The
most curious thing is that Mr. J. C. Hamilton prints an answer from
"John Wilkes," written in reply to Hamilton's of the day before,
given above.

WILKES TO HAMILTON
Sir: November 9, 1785.

The moment I received yours, I perceived the precipitancy of my
own conduct, and was very sorry I had so far mistaken both our
characters as to act in the manner I have done. I flatter myself that
the same candor which has dictated yours will be exerted towards
mine, and that you will only view it as the act of a man who con-
ceived himself injured. As you have never experienced the cruel
reverses of fortune, you can scarcely judge how the least insinuations
to their prejudice will affect those persons who have; or how much
more suspicious they are of the behavior of mankind towards them.

The morning I left the message for you I had been called upon by
one of the creditors of Mr. Heart, who thought it very strange no
dividend was made ; and he insinuated some party must be interested
in the delay. It is the first money transaction I have engaged in since
my release. I felt the insinuation as alluding to me, and with a force
which, perhaps, I should not. However, that moment I went to your
office.

The next morning, when I saw your note to Mr. Atkinson, and found
myself totally set aside in a business where I had, most undoubtedly,
been originally neglected, I felt myself very much agitated, and in that
frame of mind I wrote my last to you.

So much I thought it necessary to add in explanation.

I am convinced now I have been too hasty, and I am sorry for it.
It will put me on my guard in future, and, I make no doubt, prove
beneficial to me, provided it has not been the means of hurting me in
your estimation, which I am now more desirous than ever of obtaining.
I am, sir, etc. John Wilkes.^

' I have shown that the Wilkes in question must have been one of
the family of the English agitator, and could not have been the
agitator himself, but could, and indeed must have been, his brother
Israel. Why Mr. J. C. Hamilton should have printed the letter as from
John Wilkes cannot be determined. That the original should have
been signed " John Wilkes " seems most unlikely.

4IO Alexander Hamilton

whatever inattention may have appeared towards
you, was solely owing to the continual hurry in
which my engagements, for a long time past, have
kept me ; and that, so far from its having been occa-
sioned by any designed neglect, it was what, under
the circumstances, might have happened to my best
friend. Indeed, much of what you mention to have
been done by you, I am a stranger to. The frequent
callings, by yourself and by your servant, did not,
that I recollect, come to my knowledge. It is possi-
ble some of them might have been mentioned to me,
and, in the hurry of my mind, forgotten. Once, I
remember, I saw your servant just as I was going out
on some urgent business. I sent a verbal message,
promising that I would see you; which I intended
to do, as soon as I had made up my resolution on
the business of the interview. When I received your
note I was about sending you an answer in writing;
but, upon inquiring for your servant, and finding
him gone, I omitted it, with an intention to see you
personally.

You say it is near six months since you first ap-
plied to me on the business in question. A great
part of the time I gave you all the answer I could
give you — to wit, that I had written to Mr. Macaulay,
and only waited his answer. About two months
since, I received it. I have been the greater part of
the time out of town on indispensable business. In
the intervals I have been occupied about objects of
immediate and absolute necessity, which could not
have been delayed without letting my business run
into utter confusion. Mr. Macaulay 's concerns have

Private Correspondence 411

been hanging upon my spirits. I have been prom-
ising myself, from day to day, to bring them to a
conclusion, but more pressing objects have unavoid-
ably postponed it. I thought the delay required
some apology to Mr. Macaulay, but I never dreamt
of having given occasion of offence to you.

I will not, however, deny, upon a review of what
has passed, that there have been, through hurry and
inadvertency on my part, appearances of neglect
towards you; but between gentlemen and men of
business, unfavorable conclusions ought not to be
drawn before explanations are asked. Allowances
ought to be made for the situations of parties ; and
the omissions of men, deeply involved in business,
ought rather to be ascribed to that cause than to ill
intentions.

Had you, in the first instance, expressed to me
(in such a manner as respect for yourself and deli-
cacy to me dictated) your sense of these appearances,
I should have taken pains to satisfy you that nothing
improper towards you was intended by me. But to
make one of my clerks the instrument of communica-
tion, and the bearer to me of a harsh accusation, was
ill-judged and ungenteel. To take it for granted
that you had received an injury from me, without
first giving me an opportunity of an explanation, and
to couch your sense of it in terms so offensive as
some of those used in your letter, is an additional
instance of precipitation and rudeness. Inadver-
tencies susceptible of misapprehension, I may com-
mit; but I am incapable of intending to wound or
injure any man who has given me no cause for it;

412 Alexander Hamilton

and I am incapable of doing any thing, sir, of which
I need be ashamed. The intimation, on your part,
is unmerited and unwarrantable. After thus having
explained my own conduct to you, and given you
my ideas of yours, it will depend on yourself how far
I shall be indifferent, or not, to your future senti-
ments of my character. I shall only add, that to-
morrow you shall receive from me my determination
on the matter of business between us.

TO WASHINGTON

November 23, 1785.

Dear Sir:

Major Fairly is just setting out on a visit to you,
I believe, on some business relating to the Cincinnati.
The society of this State met some short time since,
and took into consideration the proposed alterations
in the original frame of the Institution; some were
strenuous for adhering to the old constitution, a few
adopting the new, and many for a middle line. This
disagreement of opinion and the consideration that
the different State societies pursuing different courses
— some adopting the alterations entire, others re-
jecting them in the same way, others adopting in
part and rejecting in part — might beget confusion
and defeat good purposes, induced a proposal which
was unanimously agreed to, that a committee should
be appointed to prepare and lay before the society a
circular-letter expressive of the sense of the society
on the different alterations proposed, and recom-
mending the giving powers to a general meeting of

Private Correspondence 4^3

the Cincinnati, to make such alterations as might
be thought advisable to obviate objections and pro-
mote the interests of the society. I believe there
will be no difficulty in agreeing to change the present
mode of continuing the society ; but it appears to be
the wish of our members that some other mode may
be defined and substituted, and that it might not be
left to the uncertainty of legislative provision. We
object, too, to putting the fimds under legislative
direction. Indeed, it appears to us, the Legisla-
tures will not at present be inclined to give us any
sanction. I am of the committee, and I cannot
but flatter myself that when the object is better
digested and more fiilly explained it will meet your
approbation.

The poor Baron ' is still soliciting Congress, and
has every prospect of indigence before him. He has
his imprudences, but, upon the whole, he has ren-
dered valuable services, and his merits and the repu-
tation of the country alike demand that he should
not be left to suffer want.

If there could be any mode by which your influ-
ence could be employed in his favor, by writing to
your friends in Congress, or otherwise, the Baron and
his friends would be imder great obligations to you.

TO NATHANIEL HAZARD

Q April 24, 1786.

Your letter of the 21st was only delivered me this
morning. The good opinion of liberal men I hold in

* Steuben.

414 Alexander Hamilton

too high estimation not to be flattered by that part
of your letter which relates to me personally. The
other part I have communicated to General Schuyler,
and he assures me he will see all his friends this
afternoon upon the subject ; so that I have no doubt,
as far as his influence extends, it will be employed
in favor of the success of the bill in the Assembly, as
it has already been in the Senate.

In taking this step, however, I would not be under-
stood to declare any opinion concerning the prin-
ciples of the bill, with which I am not sufficiently
acquainted to form a decided opinion. I have
merely made your letter the occasion of introducing
the subject to General Schuyler, whose sentiments
are as favorable to your wishes as you could desire.

I make this observation from that spirit of candor
which I hope will always direct my conduct. I am
aware that I have been represented as an enemy to
the wishes of what you call your corps. If by this
has been meant that I do not feel as much as any
man, not immediately interested, for the distresses of
those merchants who have been in a great measure
the victims of the Revolution, the supposition does
not do justice either to my head or my heart. But
if it means that I have always viewed the mode of
relieving them as a matter of peculiar delicacy and
difficulty, it is well founded.

I should have thought it unnecessary to enter into
this explanation, were it not that I am held up as a
candidate at the ensuing election; and I would not
wish that the step I have taken in respect to your
letter should be considered as implying more than it

Private Correspondence 4^5

does; for I would never wish to conciliate at the
expense of candor. On the other hand, I confide in
your liberality not to infer more than I intend from
the explanation I have given ; and hope you will be-
lieve me to be, with great cordiality and esteem, etc.

to messrs. semphill & co.

Gentlemen: ^^"^ ^'^^^' ^^^ '°' '^86.

On the recommendation of Mr. Nicholas Cruger,'
of this city, I take the liberty to commit to your care
a small matter in which I am interested. I am in-
formed that Mr. John Hallwood, a relation of mine,
who died some time since in St. Croix, has, by his
will, left me one-fourth part of his estate. The
amount, I imagine, is not very considerable, but,
whatever it may be, I shall be glad to have it
collected and remitted. Mr. Hallwood 's estate, I
believe, consisted entirely in his share in his grand-
father's estate, Mr. James Lytton," whose affairs
have been a long time in a dealing [sic] court, but
one would hope are now ready for a final settlement.
Dr. Hugh Knox can give you further information on
the subject.

^ Hamilton's early friend and employer.

2Mr. Hallwood's grandfather was Mr James Lytton,as it here appears,
and Mr. Hallwood was a relative of Hamilton. In the appendix to my
Life of Hamilton (American Statesmen Series), p. 294, I have dis-
cussed, in connection with the question of his parentage, his relation-
ship to the Lyttons. This letter tends to show that, if the view there
suggested is probable, Hamilton's mother was a Miss Lytton, and not
Miss Faucette. This letter is valuable only on this account, for it
proves beyond a peradventure Hamilton's relationship to the Lyttons,
which is mentioned by Mr. John C. Hamilton in the first and un-
finished Life, but which is omitted in the History of the Republic,

4^6 Alexander Hamilton

As I know money concerns in your island rarely
improve by delay, if things should not be in a train
to admit of an immediate settlement, I shall be ready,
to effect this to transfer my claim to any person who
may incline to the purchase at a discount of five and
twenty per cent.

This, however, I submit to your discretion, and
authorize you to do whatever you think for my in-
terest. Inclosed I send you a power of attorney,
which I presume you will find competent. Should
it be in my power to render you any services here, I
shall with pleasure obey your commands.

TO JOHN THOMAS, ESQ., SHERIFF OF WESTCHESTER

New York, June 22, 1786.

Sir:

I think it necessary to apprise you that in my
opinion you will not be safe in taking paper money
on executions, without the consent of the parties,
and in those which I have sent to you that consent I
believe cannot be obtained.

This is a matter, however, which I mention to you
in confidence, for your own safety. I would not wish
to have much said about it till you should be under
a necessity of explaining yourself, lest it should in-
jure the credit of the paper on its first appearance,
to which (whatever be my opinion of the measure
itself since it has been adopted) I would not wish to
be accessory. '

* Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

Private Correspondence 4^7

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Jtily 3, 1787.

Dear Sir:

In my passage through the Jerseys, and since my
arrival here, I have taken particular pains to dis-
cover the public sentiment, and I am more and more
convinced that this is the critical opportunity for
establishing the prosperity of this country on a solid
foundation. I have conversed with men of informa-
tion, not only in this city, but from different parts of
the State, and they agree that there has been an
astonishing revolution for the better in the minds of
the people.

The prevailing apprehension among thinking men
is, that the Convention, from the fear of shocking
the popular opinion, will not go far enough. They
seem to be convinced that a strong, well-mounted
government will better suit the popular palate than
one of a different complexion. Men in office are in-
deed taking all possible pains to give an unfavorable
impression of the Convention, but the current seems
to be moving strongly the other way.

A plain but sensible man, in a conversation I had
with him yesterday, expressed himself nearly in
this manner: The people begin to be convinced that
"their excellent form of government," as they have
been used to call it, will not answer their purpose, and
that they must substitute something not very remote
from that which they have lately quitted.

These appearances, though they will not warrant
a conclusion that the people are yet ripe for such a
plan as I advocate, yet serve to prove that there is

VOL. IX.— 27.

4i8 Alexander Hamilton

no reason to despair of their adopting one equally
energetic, if the Convention should think proper to
propose it. They serve to prove that we ought not
to allow too much weight to objections drawn from
the supposed repugnance of the people to an efficient
constitution. I confess I am more and more in-
clined to believe that former habits of thinking are
regaining their influence with more rapidity than is
generally imagined.

Not having compared ideas with you, sir, I cannot
judge how far our sentiments agree; but, as I per-
suade myself the genuineness of my representations
will receive credit with you, my anxiety for the event
of the deliberations of the Convention induces me to
make this communication of what appears to be the
tendency of the public mind.

I own to you, sir, that I am seriously and deeply
distressed at the aspect of the counsels which pre-
vailed when I left Philadelphia. I fear that we
shall let slip the golden opportunity of rescuing the
American empire from disunion, anarchy, and misery.

No motly or feeble measure can answer the end,
or will finally receive the public support. Decision
is true wisdom, and will be not less reputable to the
Convention than salutary to the community. .

I shall of necessity remain here ten or twelve days.
If I have reason to believe that my attendance at
Philadelphia will not be mere waste of time, I shall,
after that period, rejoin the Convention.

Private Correspondence 4^9

TO '

New York, , 1787.

Dear Sir:

Agreeably to what passed between us, I have had
an interview with Mr. Auldjo, and I flatter myself if
there is (as I doubt not there will be) as much mod-
eration on the part of Major Peirce as there appears
to be on that of Mr. Auldjo, that the affair between
them may yet be amicably terminated.

But Mr. Auldjo observes, I confess in my opinion
with propriety, that he ought to know with some
precision the matters which have given offence to
Major Peirce, before he can enter into explanations,
which he declares himself to be very ready to do with
coolness and candor the moment he shall be enabled
to do it by a specification of the subjects of com-
plaint. If a personal interview is for any reason
disagreeable to Major Peirce, I entreat you, my dear
sir, to obtain from him and to communicate to me
by letter the substance of what has occasioned his
dissatisfaction, with so much particularity only as
will put it in the power of Mr. Auldjo to give an ex-
plicit answer. Major Peirce will, I hope, have no
scruples about this, for as the door of explanation
has been opened by Mr. Auldjo, there is no punctilio
which stands in his way ; and I trust he will feel the
force of a sentiment which prudence and humanity
equally dictate, that extremities ought then only to
ensue when after a fair experiment accommodation

' Addressed presumably to the second of Major Peirce in the affair
of honor which seems to have been impending between that gentleman
and Hamilton's friend Mr. Auldjo.

420 Alexander Hamilton

has been found impracticable. An attention to this
principle interests the characters of both the gentle-
men concerned, and with them our own, and from
every other consideration, as well as that of personal
friendship to the parties, I sincerely wish to give it
its full operation. I am convinced you are not less
anxious to effect this than myself, and I trust our
joint endeavors will not prove unsuccessful.

I cannot, however, conclude without making one
remark. Though Mr. Auldjo has expressed and still
entertains a desire of explanation, it would ill become
him to solicit it. Whatever therefore in my expres-
sions may seem to urge such an explanation with
the earnestness of entreaty, must be ascribed to my
own feelings and to that inclination which every man
of sensibility must feel — not to see extremities take
place if it be in his power to prevent them, or until
they become an absolutely necessary sacrifice to
public opinion.

to major peirce

Dear Sir:

As the enclosed contains details relating to your
private affairs, it is judged most delicate to put it
under cover to you. Permit me to use the privilege
of a friend to say, that what has appeared to you
offensive in the conduct of Mr. Auldjo, seems to have
been a very natural result of disappointments on his
side, to which your disappointments gave birth, in-
fluenced too, perhaps, in some degree by incidents
which may have been misrepresented or misimder-

Private Correspondence 421

stood. His explanations speak a language which I
sincerely think may put an end to your controversy —
I as sincerely hope this may be the case. I speak
with the more freedom, because in a difference be-
tween men I esteem — a difference evidently foreign
from any real enmity between them, — I can never
consent to take up the character of a second in a
duel till I have in vain tried that of the mediator.
Be content with enough, for more ought not to be
expected.'

TO AULDJO

New York, July 26, 1787.

Sir:

I have delivered the paper you committed to me,
as it stood altered, to Major Peirce, from whose con-
duct I am to conclude the affair between you is at
an end. He informs me that he is shortly to set out
on a jaunt up the North River.

As you intimate a wish to have my sentiments in
writing on the transaction, I shall with pleasure de-
clare that the steps you have taken in consequence
of Mr. Peirce 's challenge have been altogether in
conformity to my opinion of what would be prudent,
proper, and honorable on your part. They seem to
have satisfied Mr. Pierce's scruples arising from what
he apprehended in some particulars to have been
your conduct to him, and I presume we are to hear
nothing further of the matter.

' Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

422 Alexander Hamilton

TO RUFUS KING '

New York, August 20, 1787.

Dear Sir:

Since my arrival here I have written to my col-
leagues, informing them if either of them would
come down, I would accompany him to Philadelphia;
so much for the sake of propriety and public opinion.

In the meantime, if any material alteration should
happen to be made in the plan now before the Con-
vention, I will be obliged to you for a communica-
tion of it. I will also be obliged to you to let me
know when your conclusion is at hand, for I would
choose to be present at that time.

TO COLONEL JEREMIAH WADSWORTH *

August 20, 1787.

My Dear Sir:

The inclosed is said to be the copy of a letter
circulating in your State. The history of its
appearance among us is that it was sent by one
Whitmorej of Stratford, formerly in the Paymaster-
General's office, to one James Reynolds of this city.

1 am at a loss clearly to understand its object, and
have some suspicion that it has been fabricated to
excite jealousy against the Convention, with a view
at an opposition to their recommendations. At all

' The eminent statesman of Massachusetts and New York. He was
always one of Hamilton's most intimate friends.

2 Colonel Jeremiah Wadsworth, of Connecticut, Commissary-General
in the Revolutionary army, delegate to the Continental, and member
of the National, Congress. By his reply to this letter it appears that
the person whom Hamilton calls Whitmore was named Wetmore.

Private Correspondence 423

events, I wish, if possible, to trace its source, and
send it to you for that purpose.

Whitmore must of course say where he got it, and
by pursuing the information, we may at last come
at the author. Let me know the political connec-
tions of this man and the complexion of the people
most active in the circulation of the letter. Be so
good as to attend to this inquiry somewhat particu-
larly, as I have different reasons of some moment for
setting it on foot.

TO RUFUS KING

New York, August 28, 1787.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you some days since to request you to in-
form me when there was a prospect of your finishing,
as I intended to be with you for certain reasons
before the conclusion.

It is whispered here that some late changes in
your scheme have taken place which give it a higher
tone. Is this the case? I leave town to-day to
attend a circuit in a neighboring county, from which
I shall return the last of the week, and shall be glad
to find a line from you explanatory of the period of
the probable termination of your business.

TO WASHINGTON

October, 1787.

Dear Sir:

You probably saw some time since some animad-
versions on certain expressions of Governor Clinton

424 Alexander Hamilton

respecting the Convention. You may have seen a
piece signed "A RepubHcan," attempting to bring
the fact into question, and endeavoring to contro-
vert the conclusions drawn from it, if true. My an-
swer you will find in the inclosed. I trouble you
with it merely from that anxiety which is natural to
every man, to have his veracity at least stand in a
fair light. The matter seems to be given up by the
Governor, and the fact, with the inferences from it,
stand against him in full force and operate as they
ought to do.

It is, however, of some importance to the party to
diminish whatever credit or influence I may possess,
and to effect this they stick at nothing. Among
many contemptible artifices practised by them they
have had recourse to an insinuation that I palmed
myself upon you, and that you dismissed me from
your family.' This I confess hurts my feelings, and
if it obtains credit, will require a contradiction.

You, sir, will undoubtedly recollect the manner in
which I came into your family and went out of it,
and know how destitute of foundation such insinua-
tions are. My confidence in your justice will not
permit me to doubt your readiness to put the matter
in its true light in your answer to this letter. It
cannot be my wish to give any complexion to the
affair which might excite the least scruple to you,

^ In his reply to this letter, Washington says: " But as you say it is
insinuated by some of your political adversaries and may obtain public
credit, 'that you palmed yourself upon me and was dismissed from my
family,* and call upon me to do you justice by a recital of the facts,
I do therefore explicitly declare that both charges are entirely un-
fovmded."

Private Correspondence 425

but I confess it would mortify me to be under the
imputation either of having obtruded myself into
the family of a General or having been turned out
of it.

The new Constitution is as popular in this city as
it is possible for any thing to be, and the prospect
thus far is favorable to it throughout the State.
But there is no saying what turn things may take
when the full flood of official influence is let loose
against it. This is to be expected; for, though the
Governor has not publicly declared himself, his par-
ticular connections and confidential friends are loud
against it.

Mrs. Hamilton joins in respectful compliments to
Mrs. Washington.

TO WASHINGTON

October 30, 1787.

I am much obliged to your Excellency for the ex-
plicit manner in which you contradict the insinua-
tions mentioned in my last letter. The only use I
shall make of your answer will be to put it into the
hands of a few friends.

The constitution proposed has in this State warm
friends and warm enemies. The first impressions
everywhere are in its favor, but the artillery of its
opponents makes some impression. The event can-
not yet be foreseen. The inclosed is the first number
of a series of papers to be written in its defence.'

I send you also, at the request of the Baron de
Steuben, a printed pamphlet containing the grounds

^ This allusion is to The Federalist

426 Alexander Hamilton

of an application lately made to Congress. He tells
me there is some reference to you, the object of
which he does not himself seem clearly to under-
stand, but imagines it may be in your power to be
of service to him.

There are public considerations that induce me to
be somewhat anxious for his success. He is fortified
with materials which, in Europe, could not fail to
establish the belief of the contract he alleges. The
documents of service he possesses are of a nature
to convey an exalted idea of them. The compen-
sations he has received, though considerable, if
compared with those which have been received by
American officers, will, according to European ideas,
be very scanty in application to a stranger who is
acknowledged to have rendered essential services.
Our reputation abroad is not at present too high.
To dismiss an old soldier empty and hungry, to seek
the bounty of those on whom he has no claims, and
to complain of unkind returns and violated engage-
ments, will certainly not tend to raise it. I confess,
too, there is something in my feelings which would
incline me in this case to go further than might be
strictly necessary, rather than drive a man, at the
Baron's time of life, who has been a faithful servant,
to extremities. And this is unavoidable if he does
not succeed in his present attempt. What he asks
would, all calculations made, terminate in this: an
allowance of his five hundred and eighty guineas a
year. He only wishes a recognition of the contract.
He knows that until affairs mend no money can be
produced. I do not know how far it may be in your

Private Correspondence 427

power to do him any good, but I shall be mistaken
if the considerations I have mentioned do not appear
to your Excellency to have some weight.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

New York, April 3, 1788.

I have been very delinquent, my dear sir, in not
thanking you for your letter from Philadelphia. The
remarks you made on a certain subject are impor-
tant, and will be attended to.

There is truly much embarrassment in the case.

I think, however, the principles we have talked of
are not only just, but will apply to the other depart-
ments. Nor will the consequences appear so dis-
agreeable as they may seem at first sight, when we
attend to the true import of the rule established.
The States retain all the authorities they were be-
fore possessed of, not alienated in the three modes
pointed out; but this does not include cases which
are the creatures of the new Constitution. For in-
stance, the crime of treason against the United
States immediately is a crime known only to the new
Constitution. There of course was no power in the
State constitutions to pardon that crime. There
will therefore be none under the new, etc. This is
something likely, it seems to me, to afford the best
solution of the difficulty. I send you the Federalist
from the beginning to the conclusion of the com-
mentary on the Executive Branch. If our sus-
picions of the author be right, he must be too much
engaged to make a rapid progress in what remains.

428 Alexander Hamilton

The Court of Chancery and a Circuit Court are now
sitting.

We are told that your election has succeeded, with
which we all felicitate ourselves. I will thank you
for an account of the result generally. In this State
our prospects are much as you left them. A moot
point which side will prevail. Our friends to the
northward are active.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

May 4, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

I believe I am in your debt a letter or two, which
is owing to my occupation in relation to the elections,
etc.

These are now over in this State, but the result is
not known. All depends upon Albany, where both
sides claim the victory. Our doubts will not be re-
moved till the latter end of the month. I hope your
expectations of Virginia have not diminished.

Respecting the first volume of Puhlius I have ex-
ecuted your commands. The books have been sent
addressed to the care of Governor Randolph. The
second, we are informed, will be out in the course of a
week, and an equal number shall be forwarded. In-
closed is a letter, committed to my care by Mr. Van-
derkemp, which I forward with pleasure.

TO gouverneur morris

My Dear Sir: ^^^ y^^^- ^^y ^9. 1788.

I acknowledge my delinquency in not thanking
you before for your obliging letter from Richmond.

Private Correspondence 429

But the truth is that I have been so overwhelmed in
avocations of one kind or another, that I have scarcely
had a moment to spare to a friend. You I trust will
be the less disposed to be inexorable, as I hope you
will believe there is no one for whom I have more
inclination than yourself — I mean of the male kind.

Your account of the situation of Virginia was in-
teresting, and the present appearances as represented
here justify your conjectures. It does not however
appear that the adoption of the Constitution can be
considered as out of doubt in that State. Its con-
duct upon the occasion will certainly be of critical
importance.

In this State, as far as we can judge, the elections
have gone wrong. The event, however, will not
certainly be known till the end of the month. Vio-
lence rather than moderation is to be looked for from
the opposite party. Obstinacy seems the prevailing
trait in the character of its leader. The language is
that if all the other States adopt, this is to persist in
refusing the Constitution. It is reduced to a cer-
tainty that Clinton has in several conversations de-
clared the Union unnecessary — though I have the
information through channels which do not permit
a public use to be made of it.

We have, notwithstanding this unfavorable com-
plexion of things, two sources of hope: one, the
chance of a ratification by nine States before we
decide, and the influence of this upon the firmness of
the followers; the other, the probability of a change
of sentiment in the people, auspicious to the Con-
stitution.

430 Alexander Hamilton

The current has been for some time running to-
ward it ; though the whole flood of official influence,
accelerated by a torrent of falsehood, early gave the
public opinion so violent a direction in a wrong chan-
nel that it was not possible suddenly to alter its
course. This is a mighty stiff simile; but you know
what I mean; and after having started it, I did not
choose to give up the chase.

The members of the Convention in this city, by a
majority of nine or ten to one, will be: John Jay,
Robert R. Livingston, Richard Morris, John Sloss
Hobart, James Duane, Isaac Roosevelt, Richard
Harrison, Nicholas Low, Alexander Hamilton.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

New York, May 19, 1788.

Some days since I wrote to you, my dear sir, in-
closing a letter from a Mr. Vanderkemp, etc.

I then mentioned to you that the question of a
majority for or against the Constitution would de-
pend upon the County of Albany. By the later ac-
counts from that quarter, I fear much that the issue
there has been against us.

As Clinton is truly the leader of his party, and
is inflexibly obstinate, I count little on overcoming
opposition by reason. Our only chances will be the
previous ratification by nine States, which may
shake the firmness of his followers; and a change
in the sentiments of the people, which have, for
some time, been travelling towards the Constitution,
though the first impressions, made by every species

Private Correspondence 43 1

of influence and artifice, were too strong to be eradi-
cated in time to give a decisive turn to the elections.
We shall leave nothing undone to cultivate a favor-
able disposition in the citizens at large.

The language of the Anti-Federalists is, that if all
the other States adopt, New York ought still to hold
out. I have the most direct intelligence, but in a
manner which forbids a public use being made of it,
that Clinton has, in several conversations, declared
his opinion of the inutility of the Union. It is an
unhappy reflection that the friends to it should, by
quarrelling for straws among themselves, promote
the designs of its adversaries. We think here that
the situation of your State is critical. Let me know
what you now think of it. I believe you meet nearly
at the time we do. It will be of vast importance
that an exact communication should be kept up be-
tween us at that period; and the moment any de-
cisive question is taken, if favorable, I request you
to dispatch an express to me, with pointed orders to
make all possible diligence, by changing horses, etc.
All expense shall be thankfully and liberally paid.
I executed your commands respecting the first volume
of the Federalist. I sent forty of the common copies
and twelve of the finer ones, addressed to the care
of Governor Randolph. The printer announces the
second volume in a day or two, when an equal num-
ber of the two kinds shall also be forwarded. He
informs that the Judicial Department — Trial by
Jury — Bill of Rights, etc., is discussed in some addi-
tional papers which have not yet appeared in the
Gazettes.

432 Alexander Hamilton

TO JOHN SULLIVAN, ESQ., PRESIDENT OF THE STATE OF
NEW HAMPSHIRE

New York, Jtine 6, 1788.

Dear Sir:

You will no doubt have understood that the Anti-
federal party has prevailed in this State by a large
majority. It is therefore of the utmost importance
that all external circumstances should be miade use
of to influence their conduct. This will suggest to
you the great advantage of a speedy decision in your
State, if you can be sure of the question, and a
prompt communication of the event to us. With
this view, permit me to request that the instant you
have taken a decisive vote in favor of the Constitu-
tion, you send an express to me at Poughkeepsie.
Let him take the shortest route to that place, change
horses on the road, and use all possible diligence. I
shall with pleasure defray all expenses, and give a
liberal reward to the person. As I suspect an effort
will be made to precipitate us, all possible safe dis-
patch on your part, as well to obtain a decision as to
commimicate the intelligence of it, will be desirable.'

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.
My Dear Sir: New York, June S, 1788.

In my last, I think, I informed you that the elec-
tions had turned out, beyond expectation, favorable
to the Anti-federal party. They have a majority of
two thirds in the Convention, and, according to the

* This interesting letter, now first printed, I owe to the kindness of
Mr. George Clarendon Hodges, of Boston, the possessor of the original.

Private Correspondence 433

best estimate I can form, of about four sevenths in
the community. The views of the leaders in this
city are pretty well ascertained to be turned towards
a long adjournment — say, till next spring or summer.
Their incautious ones observe that this will give an
opportunity to the State to see how the government
works, and to act according to circumstances.

My reasonings on the fact are to this effect: The
leaders of the party hostile to the Constitution are
equally hostile to the Union. They are, however,
afraid to reject the Constitution at once, because
that step would bring matters to a crisis between
this State and the States which had adopted the
Constitution, and between the parties in the State.
A separation of the Southern District from the other
parts of the State, it is perceived, would become the
object of the Federalists and of the neighboring
States. They therefore resolve upon a long ad-
journment as the safest and most artful course to
effect their final purpose. They suppose that when
the government gets into operation, it will be obliged
to take some steps in respect to revenue, etc., which
w^ill furnish topics of declamation to its enemies in
the several States, and will strengthen the minorities.
If any considerable discontent should show itself,
they will stand ready to head the opposition. If, on
the contrary, the thing should go on smoothly, and
the sentiments of our own people should change,
they can elect to come into the Union. They, at all
events, take the chances of time and the chapter of
accidents.

How far their friends in the country will go with

VOL IX.— 28.

434 Alexander Hamilton

them, I am not able to say, but, as they have always
been found very obsequious, we have little reason to
calculate upon an uncompliant temper in the present
instance. For my own part, the more I can pene-
trate the views of the Anti-federal party in this
State, the more I dread the consequences of the non-
adoption of the Constitution by any of the other
States — the more I fear an eventual disunion and
civil war. God grant that Virginia may accede.
The example will have a vast influence on our poli-
tics. New Hampshire, all accounts give us to ex-
pect, will be an assenting State.

The number of the volumes of the Federalist which
you desired have been forwarded, as well the second
as the first, to the care of Governor Randolph. It
was impossible to correct a certain error.

In a former letter, I requested you to communicate
to me, by express, the event of any decisive question
in favor of the Constitution, authorizing changes of
horses, etc., with an assurance to the person that he
will be liberally paid for his diligence.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.
Dear SiRI Poughkeepsie, June, 1788.

Your letter of the 20th came to hand two days
since. I regret that your prospects are not yet re-
duced to greater certainty. There is more and more
reason to believe that our conduct will be influenced
by yours.

Our discussions have not yet travelled beyond the
power of taxation. To-day we shall probably quit

Private Correspondence 435

this ground to pass to another. Our arguments con-
found, but do not convince. Some of the leaders,
however, appear to be convinced by circumstances,
and to be desirous of a retreat. This does not apply
to the chief, who wishes to establish Clintonism on
the basis of Anti-federalism.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

POUGHKEEPSIE, JunC 21, 1788.

Yesterday, my dear sir, the Convention made a
House. That day and this have been spent in
preliminary arrangements. To-morrow we go into a
committee of the whole on the Constitution. There
is every appearance that a full discussion will take
place, which will keep us together at least a fort-
night. It is not easy to conjecture what will be the
result. Our adversaries greatly outnumber us. The
leaders gave indications of a pretty desperate dis-
position in private conversations previous to the
meeting; but I imagine the minor partisans have
their scruples, and an air of moderation is now as-
sumed. So far the thing is not despaired of. A
happy issue with you must have a considerable in-
fluence upon us. I have time to add nothing more
than the assurance of my sincere attachment.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

My Dear Sir* Poughkeepsie, June 21, 1788.

I thank you for your letter of the 9th instant, and
am glad to learn that you think the chance is in your

436 Alexander Hamilton

favor. I hope no disagreeable change may appear.
Yet, I own I fear something from your indisposition.

Our debate here began on the clause respecting the
proportion of representation, etc., which has taken
up two days. To-morrow, I imagine, we shall talk
about the power over elections. The only good in-
formation I can give you is, that we shall be some
time together, and take the chance of events.

The object of the party at present is undoubtedly
conditional amendments. What effect events may
have cannot precisely be foreseen. I believe the
adoption by New Hampshire is certain.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

PouGHKEEPSiE, Friday morning, June 27, 1788.

A day or two ago General Schuyler, at my request,
sent forward to you an express with an account of
the adoption of the Constitution by New Hamp-
shire. We eagerly wait for further intelligence from
you, as our chance of success depends upon you.
There are some slight symptoms of relaxation in
some of the leaders, which authorizes a gleam of
hope, if you do well, but certainly I think not
otherwise.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

My Dear Sir: July 8. 1788.

I felicitate you sincerely on the event in Virginia,
but my satisfaction will be allayed if I discover too
much facility in the business of amendment-making.
I fear the system will be wounded in some of its vital

Private Correspondence 437

parts by too general a concurrence in some very in-
judicious recommendations. I allude more particu-
larly to the power of taxation. The more I consider
requisition in any shape, the more I am out of humor
with it. We yesterday passed through the Constitu-
tion. To-day some definitive proposition is to be
brought forward, but what, we are at a loss to judge.
We have good reason to believe that our opponents
are not agreed, and this affords some ground of hope.
Different things are thought of — conditions precedent,
or previous amendments; conditions subsequent ^ or
the proposition of amendments, upon condition that
if they are not adopted within a limited time, the
State shall be at liberty to withdraw from the Union ;
and, lastly, recommendatory amendments. In either
case, constructive declarations will be carried as far as
possible. We will go as far as we can in the latter
without invalidating the act, and will concur in
rational recommendations. The rest for our oppo-
nents. We are informed there has been a disturb-
ance in the city of Albany, on the fourth of July,
which has occasioned bloodshed. The Anti-federal-
ists were the aggressors, and the Federalists the vic-
tors. Thus stand our accounts at present. We
trust, however, the matter has passed over, and
tranquillity been restored.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

PouGHKEEPSiE, Saturday, July, 1788.

I thank you, my dear sir, for yours by the post.
Yesterday I communicated to Duer our situation,

43^ Alexander Hamilton

which I presume he will have communicated to you.
It remains exactly the same. No further question
having been taken, I fear the footing I mentioned to
Duer is the best upon which it can be placed, but
every thing possible will yet be attempted to bring
the party from that stand to an unqualified ratifica-
tion. Let me know your idea upon the possibility
of our being received on that plan. You will under-
stand that the only qualification will be the reserva-
tion of a right to recede in case our amendments have
not been decided upon in one of the modes pointed
out by the Constitution, within a certain number of
years, perhaps five or seven. If this can, in the first
instance, be admitted as a ratification, I do not fear
any further consequences. Congress will, I presume,
recommend certain amendments to render the struc-
ture of the government more secure. This will satisfy
the more considerate and honest opposers of the Con-
stitution, and with the aid of them will break up the
party.

TO NATHANIEL CHIPMAN ^
Sir: Poughkeepsie, July 22, 1788.

Your brother delivered me your favor, which I re-
ceived with pleasure, as the basis of a correspondence
that may be productive of public good.

I Nathaniel Chipman, of Vermont, was bom in Connecticut, in 1752,
and died in 1843. He was a soldier of the Revolution and a distin-
guished lawyer and statesman. He was Chief-Justice of Vermont and
Senator from that State. The letter to which this is a reply related
to the question of the New York grants. In 1789 Mr. Chipman was
appointed to settle the differences with New York, and two years later
was one of the Commissioners to arrange for the admission of Vermont
into the Union.

Private Correspondence 439

The accession of Vermont to the Confederacy is,
doubtless, an object of great importance to the
whole ; and it appears to me that this is the favorable
moment for effecting it upon the best terms for all
concerned. Besides mere general reasons, there are
circumstances of the moment which will forward a
proper arrangement. One of the first subjects of
deliberation with the new Congress will be the
independence of Kentucky, for which the Southern
States will be anxious. The Northern will be glad
to send a counterpoise in Vermont. These mutual
interests and inclinations will facilitate a proper
result.

I see nothing that can stand in your way but the
interfering claims under the grants of New York.
As to taxation, the natural operation of the new
system will place you exactly where you might wish
to be. The public debt, as far as it can prudently be
provided for, will be by the Western lands and the
appropriation of some general fund. There will he
no distribution of it to particular parts of the com-
munity. The fund will be sought for in indirect
taxation; as for a number of years, and except in
time of war, direct taxes would be an impolitic
measure. Hence, as you can have no objection to
your proportion of contribution as consumers, you
can fear nothing from the article of taxation.

I readily conceive that it will hardly be practicable
to you to come into the Union, unless you are se-
cured from claims under New York grants. Upon
the whole, therefore, I think it will be expedient for
you, as early as possible, to ratify the Constitution,

440 Alexander Hamilton

*' upon condition that Congress shall provide for the
extinguishment of all existing claims to land under
grants of the State of New York, which may inter-
fere with claims under the grants of the State of
Vermont." You will do well to conform your
boundary to that heretofore marked out by Con-
gress, othei*wise insuperable difficulties would be
likely to arise with this State.

I should think it altogether unadvisable to annex
any other conditions to your ratification, for there is
scarcely any of the amendments proposed that will
not have a party opposed to it, and there are several
that will meet with a very strong opposition; and
it would, therefore, be highly inexpedient for you
to embarrass your main object by any collateral
difficulties.

As I write in Convention, I have it not in my
power to enlarge. You will perceive my general
ideas on the subject. I will only add that it will be
wise to lay as little impediment as possible in the
way of your reception into the Union.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

Dear Sir* Poughkeepsie, juiy 22, 1788.

I wrote to you by the last post, since which nothing
material has turned up here. We are debating on
amendments without having decided what is to be
done with them. There is so great a diversity in the
views of our opponents that it is impossible to pre-
dict any thing. Upon the whole, however, our fears
diminish.

Private Correspondence 441

TO WASHINGTON

New York, August 13, 1788.

Sir:

Capt. Cochran of the British navy has requested
my aid in recovering a family watch worn by his
brother, w^ho fell at Yorktown, and now in the pos-
session of Gen. Morgan. In compliance with his re-
quest I have written the letter herewith to Gen.
Morgan, which I take the liberty to convey through
you, in hope that if you see no impropriety in it,
you would add your influence to the endeavor to
gratify Capt. Cochran. It is one of those things in
which the affections are apt to be interested, beyond
the value of the object, and in which one naturally
feels an inclination to oblige.

I have delivered to Mr. Madison, to be forwarded
to you, a set of the papers under the signature of
Publius,' neatly enough boimd to be honored with a
place in your library. I presume you have under-
stood that the writers of these papers are chiefly Mr.
Madison and myself, with some aid from Mr. Jay.

I take it for granted, sir, you have concluded to
comply with what will no doubt be the general call
of your country in relation to the new government.
You will permit me to say that it is indispensable
you should lend yourself to its first operations. It
is of little purpose to have introduced a system, if the
weightiest influence is not given to its firm estab-
lishment in the outset.

^ These papers constituted The Federalist.

442 Alexander Hamilton

TO SAMUEL BROOME '

New York, August i6, 1788.

Dear Sir:

I have this moment received your letter of the
thirteenth instant, and am sorry that the rules of
propriety in respect to my situation as a member of
Congress will not permit my acting in the capacity
you wish.

My situation for some time past has prevented my
acknowledging one or two of your favors, which have
been duly handed to me. I recollect that one of
them contains an inquiry concerning your son, to
which you will naturally desire an answer. My
public avocations for some time past have put it out
of my power to ascertain the progress he has made —
though I expect when I shall be enough disengaged
to examine, to find it a good one; it cannot fail to
be so if his diligence has been equal to his capacity.
I shall shortly write you further on the subject.

TO GOVERNOR WM. LIVINGSTON

New York, August 29, 1788.

Dear Sir:

We are informed here that there is some prob-
ability that your Legislature will instruct your dele-
gates to vote for Philadelphia as the place of the
meeting of the first Congress imder the new govern-
ment. I presume this information can hardly be
well foimded, as upon my calculations there is not a

^ A New York merchant, and one of the well-known family of that
name.

Private Correspondence 443

State in the Union so much interested in having the
temporary residence at New York as New Jersey.

As between Philadelphia and New York, I am
mistaken if a greater proportion of your State will
not be benefited by having the seat of government
at the latter than the former place.

If at the latter, too, its exposed and eccentric
position will necessitate the early establishment of a
permanent seat, and in passing south it is highly
probable the government would light upon the Dela-
ware in New Jersey. The Northern States do not wish
to increase Pennsylvania by an accession of all the
wealth and population of the federal city. Penn-
sylvania herself, when not seduced by immediate
possession, will be glad to concur in a situation on
the Jersey side of the Delaware. Here are at once
a majority of the States; but place the government
once down in Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania will, of
course, hold fast ; the State of Delaware will do the
same.

All the States south, looking forward to the time
when the balance of population will enable them to
carry the government further south (say to the Po-
tomac), and being accommodated in the meantime
as well as they wish, will concur in no change. The
government, from the delay, will take root in Phila-
delphia, and Jersey will lose all prospect of the
federal city within her limits.

These appear to me calculations so obvious that I
cannot persuade myself New Jersey will so much
oversee her interest as to fall, in the present instance,
into the snares of Pennsylvania.

444 Alexander Hamilton

TO WASHINGTON
Dear Sir* ^^^ York. September, 1788.

Your. Excellency's friendly and obliging letter of
the 28th ultimo came safely to hand. I thank you
for your assurance of seconding my application to
General Morgan. The truth of that affair is that he
purchased the watch for a trifle of a British soldier,
who plundered Major Cochran at the moment of his
fall at Yorktown.

I should be deeply pained, my dear sir, if your
scruples in regard to a certain station should be
matured into a resolution to decline it, though I am
neither surprised at their existence, nor can I but
agree in opinion that the caution you observe in
deferring an ultimate determination is prudent. I
have, however, reflected maturely on the subject,
and have come to a conclusion (in which I feel no
hesitation), that every public and personal considera-
tion will demand from you an acquiescence in what
will certainly be the unanimous wish of your country.
The absolute retreat which you meditated at the
close of the late war was natural and proper. Had
the government produced by the Revolution gone on
in a tolerable train, it would have been most advisable
to have persisted in that retreat. But I am clearly
of opinion that the crisis which brought you again
into public view left you no alternative but to com-
ply, and I am equally clear in the opinion that you
are by that act pledged to take a part in the execu-
tion of the government. I am not less convinced
that the impression of this necessity of your filling the

Private Correspondence 445

station in question is so universal that you run no
risk of any uncandid imputation by submitting to it.
But even if this were not the case, a regard to your
own reputation, as well as to the public good, calls
upon you in the strongest manner to run that risk.

It cannot be considered as a compliment to say
that on your acceptance of the office of President
the success of the new government in its commence-
ment may materially depend. Your agency and in-
fluence will be not less important in preserving it
from the future attacks of its enemies than they have
been in recommending it in the first instance to the
adoption of the people. Independent of all consider-
ations drawn from this source, the point of light in
which you stand at home and abroad will make an
infinite difference in the respectability with which
the government will begin its operations in the al-
ternative of your being or not being at the head of it.
I forbear to urge considerations which might have a
more personal application. What I have said will
suffice for the inferences I mean to draw.

First. In a matter so essential to the well-being
of society as the prosperity of a newly-instituted
government, a citizen of so much consequence as
yourself to its success has no option but to lend his
services if called for. Permit me to say it would
be inglorious in such a situation not to hazard the
glory, however great, which he might have previously
acquired.

Secondly. Your signature to the proposed system
pledges your judgment for its being such a one as,
upon the whole, was worthy of the public approbation.

44^ Alexander Hamilton

If it should miscarry (as men commonly decide
from success, or the want of it), the blame will,
in all probability, be laid on the system itself, and
the framers of it will have to encounter the disrepute
of having brought about a revolution in government,
without substituting any thing that was worthy of
the effort. They pulled down one Utopia, it will be
said, to build up another. This view of the subject
if I mistake not, my dear sir, will suggest to your
mind greater hazard to that fame, which must be
and ought to be dear to you, in refusing your future
aid to the system than in affording it. I will only
add that, in my estimate of the matter, that aid is
indispensable.

I have taken the liberty to express these senti-
ments, and to lay before you my view of the subject.
I doubt not the considerations mentioned have fully
occurred to you, and I trust they will finally produce
in your mind the same result which exists in mine.
I flatter myself the frankness with which I have de-
livered myself will not be displeasing to you. It has
been prompted by motives which you would not dis-
approve. The letter inclosed in yours was imme-
diately forwarded.

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK '

New York, October 9, 1788.

I thank you, my dear sir, for your obliging con-
gratulations on the event towards effecting which

' Theodore Sedgwick, of Massachusetts, afterwards member of Con-
gress, Speaker of the House, and a judge of the Supreme Court of his
native State, He was a staimch Federalist and an ardent friend of
Hamilton.

Private Correspondence 447

your aid as a joint laborer was so essential. I hope
experience may show that, while it promotes the in-
terest of this place, it will not be incompatible with
public good. We are making efforts to prepare
handsome accommodations for the session of the
new Congress.

On the subject of Vice-President, my ideas have
concurred with yours, and I believe Mr. Adams will
have the votes of this State. He will certainly, I
think, be preferred to the other gentleman. Yet
certainly is perhaps too strong a word. I can con-
ceive that the other, who is supposed to be a more
pliable man, may command Anti-federal influence.

The only hesitation in my mind with regard to
Mr. Adams has arisen within a day or two from a
suggestion by a particular gentleman that he is un-
friendly in his sentiments to General Washington.
Richard H. Lee, who will probably, as rumor now
runs, come from Virginia, is also in this style. The
Lees and Adamses have been in the habit of uniting,
and hence may spring up a cabal very embarrassing
to the Executive, and of course to the administration
of the government. Consider this — sound the real-
ity of it, and let me hear from you.

What think you of Lincoln or Knox? This is a
flying thought.

TO NATHANIEL CHIPMAN

1788.

Sir:

Your favor of the 6th of September has been duly
handed to me, and I receive great pleasure from the

44^ Alexander Hamilton

hopes you appear to entertain of a favorable turn of
affairs in Vermont in regard to the new government.
It is certainly an object of mutual importance to
yourselves, and to the Union, and well deserves
the best endeavors of every discerning and good
man.

I observe with satisfaction your opinion that Ver-
mont will not make a point of introducing amend-
ments. I mean as a condition of her accession.
That ground would be the most hazardous which she
could venture upon, as it is very probable that such
amendments as might be popular with you would be
deemed inadmissible by the friends of the system,
who will doubtless be the most influential persons
in the national councils ; and who would rather sub-
mit to the inconvenience of your being out of the
Union, till circumstances should alter, than consent
to any thing that might impair the energy of the
government. The article of taxation is, above all,
the most delicate thing to meddle with; for as
plenary power in that respect must ever be con-
sidered as the vital principle of government, no
abridgment or constitutional suspension of that
power can ever, upon mature consideration, be coun-
tenanced by the intelligent friends of an effective
national government. You must, as I remarked in
my former letter, rely upon the natural course of
things, which I am satisfied will exempt you in ordi-
nary times from direct taxation, on account of the
difficulty of exercising it in so extensive a country,
so peculiarly situated, with advantage to the revenue
or satisfaction to the people. Though this difficulty

Private Correspondence 449

will be gradually diminished from various causes, a
considerable time must first elapse; and, in the in-
terim, you will have nothing to apprehend on this
score.

As far as indirect taxation is concerned, it will be
impossible to exempt you from sharing in the bur-
then, nor can it be desired by your citizens. I re-
peat these ideas to impress you the more strongly
with my sense of the danger of touching this chord,
and of the impolicy of perplexing the main object
with any such collateral experiments, while I am
glad to perceive that you do not think your people
will be tenacious on the point.

It will be useless for you to have any view in your
act to the present Congress. They can of course do
nothing in the matter. All you will have to do will
be to pass an act of accession to the new Constitu-
tion, on the conditions on which you mean to rely.
It will then be for the new government, when met,
to declare whether you can be received on your own
terms or not.

I am sorry to find that the affair of boundary is
likely to create some embarrassment. Men's minds,
everywhere out of your State, are made up upon and
reconciled to that which has been delineated by Con-
gress. Any departure from it must beget new dis-
cussions, in which all the passions will have their
usual scope, and may occasion greater impediments
than the real importance of the thing would justify.
If, however, the further claims you state cannot be
gotten over with you, I would still wish to see the ex-
periment made, though with this clog, because I have

VOL. IX. — 29.

450 Alexander Hamilton

it very much at heart that you should become a mem-
ber of the Confederacy, It is, however, not to be
inferred that the same disposition will actuate every-
body. In this State, the pride of certain individuals
has too long triumphed over the public interest; and
in several of the Southern States a jealousy of North-
em influence will prevent any great zeal for increas-
ing in the national councils the number of Northern
votes.

I mention these circumstances (though I dare say
they will have occurred to you), to show you the
necessity of moderation and caution on your part,
and the error of any sanguine calculation upon a dis-
position to receive you at any rate. A supposition
of this nature might lead to fatal mistakes.

In the event of an extension of your boundary
beyond the Congressional hne, would it be imprac-
ticable for you to have commissioners appointed to
adjust any differences which might arise? I pre-
sume the principal object with you in the extension
of your boundary would be to cover some private
interests. This might be matter of negotiation.

There is one thing which I think it proper to men-
tion to you, about which I have some doubt — that
is, whether a legislative accession would be deemed
valid. It is the policy of the system to lay its
foundations in the immediate consent of the people.
You will best judge how far it is safe or practicable
to have recourse to a convention. Whatever you
do, no time ought to be lost. The present moment
is undoubtedly critically favorable. Let it by all
means be improved.

Private Correspondence 45 ^

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

New York, November 9, 1788.

My Dear Sir:

Your last letter but one met me at Albany attend-
ing court, from whence I am but just returned.
Yours of the 2d inst. is this moment handed me.

I am very sorry for the schism you hint at among
the Federalists, but I have so much confidence in the
good management of the fast friends of the Constitu-
tion, that I hope no ill consequences will ensue from
that disagreement. It will, however, be worthy of
great care to avoid suffering a difference of opinion
on collateral points, to produce any serious division
between those who have hitherto drawn together on
the great national question.

Permit me to add that I do not think you should
allow any line to be run between those who wish to
trust alterations to future experience, and those who
are desirous of them at the present juncture. The
rage for amendments is in my opinion rather to
be parried by address than encotmtered with open
force. And I shall therefore be loth to learn that
your parties have been arranged professedly upon
the distinction I have mentioned. The mode in
which amendments may best be made, and twenty
other matters, may serve as pretexts for avoiding
the evil and securing the good.

On the question between Mr. H.' and Mr. A.,*
Mr. King will probably have informed you that I

' John Hancock.

2 John Adams. The question was which of these two shoiild be
supported for the Vice- Presidency.

452 Alexander Hamilton

have, upon the whole, concluded that the latter
ought to be supported. My measures will be taken
accordingly. I had but one scruple, but after ma-
ture consideration, I have relinquished it. Mr. A.,
to a sound understanding, has always appeared to
me to add an ardent love for the public good, and,
as his further knowledge of the world seems to have
corrected those jealousies which he is represented to
have once been influenced by, I trust nothing of the
kind suggested in my former letter will disturb the
harmony of the administration. Let me continue
to hear from you, and believe me to be, with very
great esteem and regard, etc.

TO WASHINGTON
Dear Sir: November i8, 1788.

Your last two letters have duly come to hand, and
the Count de Moustier has delivered me the watch
you committed to his charge. Your obliging atten-
tion to this matter claims my particular acknow-
ledgments. I will make no apology for asking you
to take the additional trouble of forwarding the en-
closed to the General. I take the liberty of passing
it through you, that you may, by perusing the con-
tents, know the situation of the business.

The demand of fifty guineas is to me quite un-
expected. I am sorry to add that there is too good
evidence that it cost a mere trifle to the General.
This, however, I mention in confidence. Nor shall
I give you any further trouble on the subject. What-
ever may be proper will be done.

Private Correspondence 453

Mrs. Hamilton requests her affectionate remem-
brances to Mrs. Washington, and joins me in the best
wishes for you both.

P. S. — Your last letter, on a certain subject, I
have received. I feel a conviction that you will
finally see your acceptance to be indispensable. It
is no compliment to say that no other man can
sufficiently unite the public opinion or can give the
requisite weight to the office in the commencement
of the government. These considerations appear to
me of themselves decisive. I am not sure that your
refusal would not throw every thing into confusion.
I am sure that it would have the worst effect imagin-
able. Indeed, as I hinted in a former letter, I think
circumstances leave no option.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

New York, November 23, 1788.

I thank you, my dear sir, for yours of the 20th.
The only part of it which surprises me is what you
mention respecting Clinton. I cannot, however, be-
lieve that the plan will succeed. Nor, indeed, do I
think that Clinton would be disposed to exchange
his present appointment for that office, or risk his
popularity by holding both. At the same time the
attempt merits attention, and ought not to be
neglected as chimerical or impracticable.

In Massachusetts the Electors will, I understand,
be appointed by the Legislature, and will be all
Federal, and 't is probable will be, for the most part.

454 Alexander Hamilton

in favor of Adams. It is said the same thing will
happen in New Hampshire, and, I have reason to
believe, it will be the case in Connecticut. In this
State it is difficult to form any certain calculation.
A large majority of the Assembly was doubtless of
' an Anti-federal complexion, but the schism in the
party, which has been occasioned by the falling off
of some of its leaders in the Convention, leaves me
not without hope that, if matters are well managed,
we may proctire a majority for some pretty equal
compromise. In the Senate we have the superiority
by one. In New Jersey there seems to be no ques-
tion but that the complexion of the Electors will be
Federal, and I suppose, if thought expedient, they
may be united in favor of Adams. Pennsylvania
you can best judge of. From Delaware, Maryland,
and South Carolina, I presume, we may count with
tolerable assurance on Federal men; and I should
imagine, if pains are taken, the danger of an Anti-
federal Vice-President might itself be rendered the
instrument of Union. At any rate, their weight
will not be thrown into the scale of Clinton, and I
do not see from what quarter numbers can be mar-
shalled in his favor equal to those who will advocate
Adams, supposing even a division in the Federal
votes.

On the whole I have concluded to support Adams,
though I am not without apprehensions on the score
we have conversed about. My principal reasons are
these: First, he is a declared partisan of deferring
to future experience the expediency of amendments
in the system, and (although I do not altogether

Private Correspondence 455

adopt this sentiment) it is much nearer my own than
certain other doctrines. Secondly, he is certainly a
character of importance in the Eastern States ; if he
is not Vice-President, one of two worse things will be
likely to happen. Either he must be nominated to
some important office, for which he is less proper, or
will become a malcontent, and give additional weight
to the opposition to the government. As to Knox,
I cannot persuade myself that he will incline to the
appointment. He must sacrifice emolument by it,
which must be of necessity a primary object with
him.

If it should be thought expedient to endeavor to
unite on a partictdar character, there is a danger of a
different kind to which we must not be inattentive —
the possibility of rendering it doubtful who is ap-
pointed President. You know the Constitution has
not provided the means of distinguishing in certain
cases, and it wotdd be disagreeable to have a man
treading close upon the heels of the person we wish
as President. May not the malignity of the opposi-
tion be, in some instances, exhibited even against
him? Of all this we shall best judge when we know
who are our Electors ; and we must, in our different
circles, take our measures accordingly.

I could console myself for what you mention re-
specting yourself, from a desire to see you in one
of the executive departments, did I not perceive the
representation will be defective in characters of a cer-
tain description. Wilson is evidently out of the ques-
tion. King tells me he does not believe he will be
elected into either House. Mr. Gouvemeur Morris

45 6 Alexander Hamilton

set out to-day for France, by way of Philadelphia.
If you are not in one of the branches, the government
may sincerely feel the want of men who unite to zeal
all the requisite qualifications for parrying the machi-
nations of its enemies. Might I advise, it would be,
that you bent your course to Virginia.

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

New York, January 29, 1789.

My Dear Sir:

I thank you for your two letters of the 4th and 7th
instant which arrived here during my absence at
Albany, from which place I have but recently re-
turned. I believe you may be perfectly tranquil on
the subject of Mr. Adams' election. It seems to be
certain that all the Middle States will vote for him
to Delaware inclusively, and probably Maryland.
In the South there are no candidates thought of but
Rutledge and Clinton. The latter will have the
votes of Virginia, and it is possible some in South
Carolina. Maryland will certainly not vote for
Clinton, and New York, from our Legislature having
by their contentions let slip the day, will not vote at
all. For the last circumstance I am not sorry, as
the most we could hope would be to balance accounts
and do no harm. The Anti-federalists incline to an
appointment notwithstanding, but I discourage it
with the Federalists. Under these circumstances I
see not how any person can come near Mr. Adams —
that is, taking it for granted that he will unite the
votes in New Hampshire and Massachusetts. I ex-

Private Correspondence 457

pect that the federal votes in Virginia, if any, will be
in favor of Adams.

You v^ill probably have heard that our Legislature
has passed a bill for electing representatives. The
Houses continue to disagree about senators, and I
fear a compromise will be impracticable. I do not,
however, entirely lose hope. In this situation you
will see we have much to apprehend respecting the
seat of government. The Pennsylvanians are en-
deavoring to bring their forces early in the field — I
hope our friends in the North will not be behind-
hand. On many accounts, indeed, it appears to be
important that there be an appearance of zeal and
punctuality in coming forward to set the government
in motion.

I shall learn with definite pleasure that you are a
representative. As to me, this will not be the case —
I believe, from my own disinclination of the thing.
We shall, however, I flatter myself, have a couple of
Federalists.

TO RUFUS KING

Albany, July 15, 1789.

My Dear Sir:

I received your letter by the last post but one. I
immediately set about circulating an idea that it
would be injurious to the city to have Duane elected,
as the probability was some very unfit character
would be his successor. My object was to have this
sentiment communicated to our members. But a
stop was put to my measures by a letter received

458 Alexander Hamilton

from Burr, announcing that at a general meeting of
the Federalists of both Houses, Schuyler and Duane
had been determined upon in a manner tliat pre-
cluded future attempts.

I find, however, by a letter from General Schuyler,
received this day, that L'Hommedieu and Morris
may spoil all. Troup tells me that L'Hommedieu
is opposed to you. He made our friend Benson be-
lieve that he would even relinquish himself for you.
What does all this mean?

Certain matters here, about which we have so
often talked, remain in statu quo.'

I For this letter, now first printed, I am indebted to the kindness
of Dr. Charles King, the possessor of the King papers. It is a very-
interesting letter, because it relates to the struggle over the election of
United States Senators from New York, which kept New York without
representation in the Senate during the first session of Congress, and
which by its results had such an important influence on the party
politics of the time. Hamilton desired Schuyler and Rufus King to
he Senators. The Livingstons, who led and represented an important
part of the FederaHsts, cheerfully conceded Schuyler, but wished the
other to be a member of their faction. There was no question as to
King's ability and distinction as a statesman, but he had just come to
New York from Massachusetts, and was a comparative stranger. The
wish of the Livingstons was perfectly right and reasonable, and every
consideration of party wisdom urged the importance of gratifying them.
Whether they would have been satisfied with Duane is not clear. Both
L'Hommedieu and Gouvemeur Morris were at one time in the field.
Ezra L'Hommedieu was an able politician, and the originator of the
measure for the State University. Hamilton however decUned to
yield. A protracted struggle followed, and Schuyler and King were
chosen. At the expiration of Schuyler's term of two years, Burr was
elected in his stead, the Livingstons were hopelessly and finally aUen-
ated, the State became doubtful, and was finally lost to the Federal-
ists. It was one of the instances in which Hamilton's bold, imperious
temper, which made him so strong as a statesman and administrator,
led him into a fatal error as a politician. The Robert Troup referred
to was an adroit politician and great friend of Hamilton. I have one
of his letters written at this time, which exhibits the details of the
contest of which I have given an outline. - "ti

Private Correspondence 459

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, September 13, 1789.

Sir:

It is with pleasure I am able to inform you that

you have been appointed Auditor in the Depart-
ment of the Treasury. The salary of this office is
fifteen hundred dollars. Your friends having ex-
pressed a doubt of your acceptance, I cannot forbear
saying that I shall be happy to find the doubt has
been ill-founded, as from the character I have re-
ceived of you I am persuaded you will be an acquisi-
tion to the department. I need scarcely add that
your presence here as soon as possible is essential to
the progress of business.'

TO LAFAYETTE

New York, October 6, 1789.

My Dear Marquis:

I have seen, with a mixture of pleasure and appre-
hension, the progress of the events which have lately
taken place in your country. As a friend to man-
kind and to liberty, I rejoice in the efforts which you
are making to establish it, while I fear much for the
final success of the attempts, for the fate of those I
esteem who are engaged in it, and for the danger, in
case of success, of innovations greater than will con-
sist with the real felicity of your nation. If your
affairs still go well when this reaches you, you will

^ This letter is reprinted from Gibbs' Administrations of Washington
and Adams, i., 2. Oliver Wolcott of Connecticut accepted the office
of Auditor here offered him, and succeeded Hamilton as Secretary of
the Treasury.

460 Alexander Hamilton

ask why this foreboding of ill, when all the appear-
ances have been so much in your favor. I will tell
you. I dread disagreements among those who are
now united (which will be likely to be improved by
the adverse party) about the nature of your consti-
tution; I dread the vehement character of your
people, whom I fear you may find it more easy to
bring on, than to keep within proper bounds after
you have put them in motion; I dread the inter-
ested refractoriness of your nobles, who cannot be
gratified, and who may be unwilling to submit to
the requisite sacrifices. And I dread the reveries of
your philosophic politicians, who appear in the mo-
ment to have great influence, and who, being mere
speculatists, may aim at more refinement than suits
either with human nature or the composition of your
nation.

These, my dear Marquis, are my apprehensions.
My wishes for your personal success and that of the
cause of liberty are incessant. Be virtuous amidst
the seductions of ambition, and you can hardly in
any event be unhappy. You are combined with a
great and good man; you will anticipate the name
of Neckar. I trust you and he will never cease to
harmonize.

You will, I presume, have heard before this gets
to hand, that I have been appointed to the head of
the finances of this country. This event, I am sure,
will give you pleasure. In undertaking the task I
hazard much, but I thought it an occasion that
called upon me to hazard. I have no doubt that the
reasonable expectation of the public may be satis-

Private Correspondence 461

fied, if I am properly supported by the Legislature,
and in this respect I stand at present on the most
encouraging footing.

The debt due to France will be among the first
objects of my attention. Hitherto it has been from
necessity neglected. The session of Congress is now
over. It has been exhausted in the organization of
the government and in a few laws of immediate
urgency respecting navigation and commercial im-
posts. The subject of the debt, foreign and domestic,
has been referred to the next session, which will
commence the first Monday in January, with an in-
struction to me to prepare and report a plan compre-
hending an adequate provision for the support
of the public credit. There were many good reasons
for a temporary adjournment.

From this sketch you will perceive that I am not
in a situation to address any thing officially to your
administration; but I venture to say to you, as my
friend, that if the installments of the principal of the
debt could be suspended for a few years, it would be
a valuable accommodation to the United States. In
this suggestion, I contemplate a speedy payment of
the arrears of interest now due, and effectual pro-
vision for the punctual payment of future interest
as it arises. Could an arrangement of this sort meet
the approbation of your government, it would be
best on every account that the offer should come un-
solicited as a fresh mark of good- will.

I wrote you last by Mr. De Warville. I presume
you received my letter. As it touched upon some
delicate topics I should be glad to know its fate.

4^2 Alexander Hamilton

P. S. — The latest accounts from France have
abated some of my apprehensions. The abdica-
tions of privileges patronized by your nobility in the
States-General are truly noble, and bespeak a patri-
otic and magnanimous policy which promises good
both to them and their country.

TO JAMES MADISON, JR.

October 12, 1789.

I thank you, my dear sir, for the line you were so
obliging as to leave for me, and the loan of the book
accompanying it, in which I have not made suffi-
cient progress to judge of its merit. I don't know
how it was, but I took it for granted that you had
left town earlier than I did; else I should have foimd
an opportunity, after your adjournment, to converse
with you on the subjects committed to me by the
House of Representatives. It is certainly important
that a plan as complete and as unexceptionable as
possible should be matured by the next meeting of
Congress; and for this purpose it could not but be
useful that there should be a comparison and con-
centration of ideas, of those whose duty leads them
to a contemplation of the subject. As I lost the op-
portunity of a personal communication, may I ask
of your friendship, to put to paper and send me your
thoughts on such objects as may have occurred to
you, for an addition to our revenue, and also as to
any modifications of the public debt, which could be
made consistent with good faith — the interest of the
public and of the creditors.

Private Correspondence 4^3

In my opinion, in considering plans for the in-
crease of our revenue, the difficult}'^ Hes not so much
in the want of objects as in prejudice, which may
be feared with regard to almost every object. The
question is very much, What further taxes will be
least unpopular? '

TO WASHINGTON

New York, October 20, 1789.

Sir:

Agreeably to your desire I sit down to commit a
few lines to the post.

Nothing worth particular mention has occurred
since your departure, except a report brought by
Mr. Keane from South Carolina, that Mr. McGillivray,
the Indian chief, has, after a short conference, left
our commissioners, declaring that what they sug-
gested was only a repetition of the old story, and in-
admissible, or something to that effect. It is added
that the Lower Creeks appeared, notwithstanding,
willing to go into a treaty, but the Upper ones de-
clined it. General Knox, who has particularly con-
versed with Mr. Keane, will doubtless give you a
more accurate statement of what he brings. It
seems, however, that he has his intelligence at
second- or third-hand.

P. S. — I have just seen a letter from a private gen-
tleman of considerable intelligence now in North
Carolina, who gives an ill picture of the prospect
there, respecting the adoption of the Constitution.

^ Reprinted from the History of the Republic, iv., 60.

464 Alexander Hamilton

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING
Sir: Treasury Department, Nov. 19, 1789.

In the estimate laid before Congress at their last
sessions, I included as an anticipation of the late
Superintendent of Finance the amount of a draft
issued by him in your favor on the late Receiver of
Taxes for the State of New York, for fifty thousand
dollars, no part of which appears to have been paid.

The circumstances attending this anticipation not
being sufficiently known by the Legislature, pre-
vented (as I presume) a provision being made for it.
It will be therefore necessary for you to inform me
particularly of the nature and circumstances at-
tending this anticipation, and particularly whether
there are any points respecting the claims under it
which give the parties a right to expect payment for
them in specie, whilst so many debts in your depart-
ment appear to have been discharged by certificates.

I wish likewise to know whether any or what part
of these claims may have been settled by the differ-
ent State commissioners, and what mode can be
adopted for ascertaining them should the Legislature
think proper to make a provision for it.'

to col. r. h. harrison ^

My Dear Friend: New York, Nov. 27, 1789.

After having labored with you in the common
cause of America during the late war, and having

' Now first printed from the Pickering papers in the possession of
the Massachusetts Historical Society.

2 Col. Robert Hanson Harrison, of Maryland, one of Washington's
aides-de-camp, familiarly known as the "Old Secretary."

Private Correspondence 465

learned your value, judge of the pleasure I feel in
the prospect of a reunion of efforts in this same
cause, for I consider the business of America's happi-
ness as yet to be done.

In proportion to that sentiment has been my dis-
appointment at learning that you had declined a
seat on the bench of the United States. Cannot
your determination, my dear friend, be reconsidered?

One of your objections, I think, will be removed;
I mean that which relates to the nature of the estab-
lishment. Many concur in opinion that its present
form is inconvenient, if not impracticable. Should
an alteration take place, your other objection will
also be removed ; for 3^ou can then be nearly as much
at home as you are now.

If it is possible, my dear Harrison, give yourself
to us. We want men like you. They are rare at all
times. Adieu.

TO HENRY LEE '

New York, December i, 1789.

My Dear Friend:

I have received your letter of the i6th inst. I am
sure you are sincere when you say that you would
not subject me to an impropriety; nor do I know
that there would be any in my answering your
queries. But you remember the saying with regard
to Caesar's wife. I think the spirit of it applicable
to every man concerned in the administration of the

' Henry Lee, of Virginia, one of the most dashing soldiers of the
Revolution, and best known by his soubriquet of "Light-Horse
Harry."

VOL. IX,— 30.

466 Alexander Hamilton

finance of a country. With respect to the conduct of
such men, stispicion is ever eagle-eyed. And the
most innocent things are apt to be misinterpreted.
Be assured of the affection and friendship of, etc.

TO WILLIAM DUER

1790.

While I truly regret, my dear friend, that the neces-
sity of your situation compels you to relinquish a
station ' in which public and personal considerations
combine to induce me to wish your continuance, I
cannot but be sensible of the force of the motives by
which you are determined. And I interest myself
in your happiness too sincerely not to acquiesce in
whatever may redound to your advantage. I con-
fess, too, that upon reflection I cannot help thinking
you have decided rightly.

I count with confidence on your future friendship,
as you may on mine.

An engagement at the President's will not let me
meet you at dinner, but I shall be happy to see you
in the evening. Adieu. God bless you, and give
you the success for which you will always have my
warmest wishes.

' William Duer was Secretary of the old Treasury Board, and
served as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury with Hamilton until
1790. This letter is dated 1789 in the edition of 1850, but as it refers
to Duer's retirement from office, could not have been written until the
beginning of the following year.

Private Correspondence 4^7

TO ^DANUS BURKE '
Sir.* New York, April i, 1790.

1 have been informed that in the House of Repre- ,
sentatives yesterday, you made use of some very [
harsh expressions in relation to me.

As I cannot but ascribe so unprovoked an attack
to misapprehension or misrepresentation, I have
concluded to send you an extract from the eulogium
pronounced by me on Gen. Greene, of the part to
which alone your animadversions could relate.

It is in these words:

** From the heights of Monmouth I might lead you
to the plains of Springfield, there to behold the
veteran Knyphaussen, at the head of a veteran army,
baffled and almost beaten by a general without an
army, aided — or rather embarrassed — ^by small fugi-
tive bodies of volunteer militia, the mimicry of
soldiership.'''

From this you will perceive that the epithets to
which you have taken exception are neither applica-
ble to the militia of South Carolina in particular, nor
to militia in general, but merely to ''small fugitive
bodies of volunteer militia."

Having thus, sir, stated the matter in its true
light, it remains for you to judge what conduct, in
consequence of the explanation, will be proper on
your part.^

^ Member of Congress from South Carolina from 1 789-1 791. He
was a distinguished lawyer, a judge, and, at the end of his life, Chancel-
lor of his State. There is no speech by Mr. Burke reported in the
Annals of Congress for March 31, 1790.

2 Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

468 Alexander Hamilton

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, May 13, 1790.

Dear Sir:

The offer of your service as successor to Mr. Duer
reached me in due time.

I can with truth assure you that you were one of
a very small number who held a competition in my
judgment, and that had personal considerations
alone influenced me, I could with difficulty have
preferred another. Reasons of a peculiar nature,
however, have determined my choice towards Mr.
Tench Coxe, who to great industry and very good
talents adds an extensive theoretical and practical
knowledge of trade.

Allow me to say that, knowing as I now do yotir
views to public life, I shall, from conviction of your
worth, take pleasure in promoting them — and I hope
an opportunity will not be long wanting.'

TO WINN

gjj^» Treasury Department, Sept. 18, 1790.

Mr. Justin Foote has delivered at this office a com-
mission from the President of the United States,
vesting you with the office of Surveyor of the Port
of Winton in North Carolina. This gentleman in-
formed me that he was not charged with any letter
of resignation from you, but stated the substance of
your verbal communication to him at the time.

^ Now first printed from the Pickering papers in the possession of the
Massachusetts Historical Society. Soon after this Col. Pickering was
made Postmaster- General.

Private Correspondence 469

Passing over the obligation of every good citizen
to deport himself with due respect to the Chief
Magistrate, and especially of those to whom he and
the Senate may have previously given indications of
confidence, which I am persuaded you would not
intentionally deviate from, I beg leave to observe
that questions may be raised whether the return of
a commission is all that is requisite from gentlemien
who decline an appointment to a public trust. Under
these circumstances, I find myself constrained to
request that you will make known to the President,
in a regular way, your intentions as to your late
appointment.

TO WASHINGTON
gjj^« New York, September 21, 1790.

Doctor Craigie has communicated to me a letter
from Mr. Daniel Parker to him, dated London, the
12th of July, which mentions that he had just seen
Mr. De Miranda, who had recently conversed with
the Marquis del Campo, from whom he had learnt
that the Court of Spain had acceded to our right of
navigating the Mississippi.

Col. Smith has also read to me a passage out of
another letter of the 6th of July, which mentions
that orders had been sent to the Viceroy of Mexico
and the Governor of New Orleans not to interrvipt
the passage of vessels of the United States through
that river.

It is probable that other communications will have
ascertained to you whether there be any and what

470 Alexander Hamilton

foundation for this intelligence; but I have thought
it advisable, notwithstanding, to impart it to you.

The reports from Europe favor more and more the
idea of peace. They are, however, not conclusive,
and not entirely correspondent.

Captain Watson, of the ship New York, who left
London the 28th of July, and Torbay the i6th or
17th of August, informs that the evening preceding
her departure from Torbay he was informed by
different officers of the fleet that peace between
Britain and Spain had taken place, and had been
notified by Mr. Pitt in a letter to the Lord Mayor of
London, of which an account had arrived that even-
ing. He had, however, seen no papers concerning
the account, and the press of seamen had continued
down to the same evening.

On the other hand. Captain Hunter, of the ship
George y who left St. Andero the 8th of August, affirms
that vigorous preparations for war were still going
on at that port.

TO WASHINGTON
gjj^. New York, September 29, 1790.

I have been duly honored with your two letters of
the 1 8th and 20th of September.

My opinion on a certain subject has been for-
warded, and I hope will ere this have come to hand.

Inclosed you will be pleased to receive a list of
such characters as, from the documents furnished by
Mr. Lear, from my inquiries, and from the intima-
tions contained in your letter of the 20th, appear to

Private Correspondence 47i

stand, upon the whole, fairest for the command of
the revenue boats, except for the stations of North
CaroHna and Georgia concerning which there is no
satisfactory information.

Captain Montgomery is said to have, on some
accounts, greater pretensions to respectabihty than
Captain Roach (though both are represented to be
men of merit), and something like claim to preference
from situation.

Mr. Gross is submitted on the recommendation of
Captain Barney, who mentions favorably both him
and a Mr. Daniel Porter, naming Gross first, but
without expressing a preference of either.

The Vice-President put into my hand a day or two
ago the inclosed letters concerning Captain Lyde,
but as Williams, who is recommended by Governor
Hancock, is also warmly recommended by General
Lincoln, the evidence in his favor may be deemed
to preponderate.

The manifest expediency of the previous nomi-
nation or appointment of the persons who are to
command the boats to oversee the building and
equipping of them will suspend the further execu-
tion of the business till your pleasure as to persons
shall be signified.

The subaltern officers can be appointed at greater
leisure, for which purpose I am collecting informa-
tion, as I am also doing in respect to commanders
for the two boats destined for North Carolina and
Georgia; but I presume the others need not be de-
layed on this account.

P. S. — The British packet is just arrived. The

472 Alexander Hamilton

rumor is, that the declarations in the inclosed paper
were regarded as the prelude of peace; but that the
matter was not considered as finished, and, accord-
ingly, the press of seamen had continued with as
much vivacity as before. In the letter from the
Minister to the Lord Mayor, these declarations
seemed to be regarded in the above-mentioned light.
The letter says, the negotiators were about to pro-
ceed to the discussion of the other matters in dispute
with a view to a definite arrangement.

TO WASHINGTON

gjp^. New York, October 17, 1790.

I had the honor of receiving yoiir letter of the
loth inst. by the last post. It is certainly very pos-
sible, that motives different from the one avowed
may have produced a certain communication; and
in matters of such a nature it is not only allowable,
but the dictate of prudence, to receive suggestions
with peculiar caution.

A British packet arrived yesterday. The accoimts
she brings are all of a warlike aspect. I have ex-
tracted from an English paper the inclosed decree
of the National Assembly of France; which, though
of a qualified tenor, looks pretty directly towards the
eventual supporting of Spain. The English papers
hold it up as a decisive indication of a disposition to
do so. And it is said, in some of the letters which
have been received, that positive orders have been
sent to Lord Howe to fight if he can find an oppor-
timity. The papers announce a second fleet of

Private Correspondence 473

fifteen sail of the line ready to rendezvous at Ports-
mouth, to be under the command of Admiral Hood.
Their destination unknown.

It is also mentioned that the Dutch fleet had re-
turned to the Texel, the Duke of Leeds having pre-
viously made a journey for an interview with the
Dutch admiral. This very mysterious circumstance
is wholly imexplained.

A certain gentleman who called on me to-day, in-
formed me that a packet had sailed the i6th of Au-
gust for Quebec, in which went passenger General
Clarke. He added that the rumor in England was,
that Sir Guy Carleton was to return in her. He
made no other communication.

The inclosed letter came to hand to-day. I have had
no opportunity of making any inquiry concerning the
person recommended in it. If I can obtain any addi-
tional lights, they shall be made known without delay.

The object suggested in your letter as preparatory
to the meeting of the Legislature shall engage my
particular attention.

The papers of the Department of State and the
Treasury, and of the commissioners for settling ac-
counts, are on their way to Philadelphia. On the
2oth, I propose with my family to set out for the
same place.

TO JOHN JAY
--. T-^ ^ Philadelphia, November i^, 1700.

My Dear Sir:

I enclose you copies of two resolutions which
have passed the House of Representatives of Vir-

474 Alexander Hamilton

ginia. Others had been proposed and disagreed to.
But the war was still going on. A spirited remon-
strance to Congress is talked of. This is the first
symptom of a spirit which must either be killed, or
it will kill the Constitution of the United States. I
send the resolutions to you, that it may be considered
what ought to be done. Ought not the collective
weight of the different parts of the government to be
employed in exploding the principles they contain?
This question arises out of sudden and imdigested
thought.'

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, December 2, 1790.

Sir:

The day before yesterday I received a letter from
Mr. Woodbury Langdon, declining the appointment
offered him. There was a letter with it for you
which I immediately forwarded.

Since that time I have conversed with Mr. Lang-
don, and have heard from Mr. Oilman; the former
is warm in his recommendation of Mr. Keith Spence;
he states that his insolvency was owing to the loss of
a valuable ship and cargo, and was attended with
the most honorable circumstances; that an imme-
diate adjustment with the creditors took place to
their entire satisfaction ; that the deficiency was only
;£i,ooo, which he considers as remitted; that Mr.
Spence was in partnership with Mr. Sherburne ; that
they have both been since in good business, and are

' Reprinted from Lije of Jay, ii., 202.

Private Correspondence 475

now more than able to pay whatever they may owe ;
that the failure happened some years ago ; that Mr.
Spence, though a native of Scotland, came early to
this coimtry — is a man of education and abilities,
well known and respected — a firm friend to the Re-
volution and to the National Government — married
to a lady of New Hampshire, with whom he has
several children. He showed me a letter from Mr.
Spence, which gives a favorable impression of his
modesty and capacity.

Mr. Gilman talks of Mr. Spence as a man not gen-
erally known, and who, being by birth a foreigner,
is not as acceptable as a native to the people of that
country ; that his attachment to the American cause
was rather ambiguous ; that he married the daughter
of a person who is now in office in the Island of Ber-
muda, and lately made a visit there; that his in-
solvency would throw a shade on his appointment
in the public opinion.

He, on the other hand, warmly recommended a
Mr. William Gardiner, the present Treasurer of New
Hampshire ; speaks decidedly of his good character,
and abilities as a man of business, and of his general
good standing in the State.

Mr. Langdon admits Mr. Gardiner to be a good
and a qualified man — says he was formerly his first
clerk, but afiirms that Mr. Spence has greatly the
superiority in point of qualification — hints at an
arrangement between Mr. Gardiner and Mr. Gilman,
the late Loan Officer, by which Mr. Gilman expects
to succeed to the office of Treasurer, if the other ob-
tains that of Commissioner of Loans.

47^ Alexander Hamilton

Thus stands my information as far as it goes; I
conjecture, on the whole, that Mr. Spence is an un-
exceptionable man, in every respect but that of his
late insolvency, and that he is probably better quali-
fied than Mr. Gardiner, or, in other words, a man of
more ability. That, nevertheless, Mr. Gardiner is
qualified for the office, and in other respects an
eligible person. Perhaps the appointment of him
will be, upon the whole, a safer one — freer from
hazard of imputation of any kind.

You are, I presume, not unapprised of a Langdon
and Gilman party in New Hampshire. Though it is
desirable this business should be finished, yet if it be
supposed likely that the arrival of the Eastern mem-
bers will afford any new light, a few days' delay can-
not be very important.

TO WILLIAM SETON '

Philadelphia, January i8, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

I have learnt with infinite pain the circumstances
of a new bank having started up in your city. Its
effects cannot but be in every way pernicious.
These extravagant sallies of speculation do injury to
the government and to the whole system of public
credit, by disgusting all sober citizens and giving a
wild air to every thing. 'T is impossible but that
three great banks in one city must raise such a mass

' William Seton, a Scotchman by birth, and a well-known business
man of New York. He was Cashier of the Bank of New York, of
which Hamilton was one of the foimders. See History of the Bank of
New York, by Henry W. Domett.

Private Correspondence 477

of artificial credit as must endanger every one of
them, and do harm in every view.

I sincerely hope that the Bank of New York will
listen to no coalition with this newly engendered
monster; a better alliance, I am strongly persuaded,
will be brought about for it, and the joint force of
two solid institutions will, without effort or violence,
remove the excrescence which has just appeared,
and which I consider as a dangerous tumor in your
political and commercial economy.

I express myself in these strong terms to you con-
fidentially, not that I have any objection to my
opinion being known as to the nature and tendency
of the thing.

TO

Philadelphia, April lo, 1791.

Sir:

Your letter of the 15th of March duly came to
hand, though not till after the arrangement for the
execution of the act mentioned in your letter had
been made.

I wish you not to consider it as a mere compliment,
when I say that the light in which your character
stands could not fail to have brought you into view
in that arrangement, and could you be minutely
acquainted with every circumstance that in the
President's mind inclined the balance a different
way, you would find no reason to be dissatisfied
with the estimation in which you have been held.
You are well aware that in a comparison of the

47^ Alexander Hamilton

pretensions of men of merit, collateral considerations
may be often justly allowed to tm*n the scale.

Suffer me to add that in the course of those future
opportunities which may be expected to occur, it
would give me a pleasure, as far as may be in my
power, to be instrumental in furnishing you with a
proper occasion for the exercise of your talents and
zeal in the service of the national government.

TO WASHINGTON '

April lo, 1 79 1.

* * * It is to be lamented that our system is
such as still to leave the public peace of the Union
at the mercy of each State government. This is not
only the case as it regards direct interferences, but as
it regards the inability of the national government,
in many particulars, to take those direct measures
for carrying into execution its views and engage-
ments which exigencies require. For example: a
party comes from a coimty of Virginia into Penn-
sylvania and wantonly murders some friendly In-
dians. The national government, instead of having
power to apprehend murderers and bring them to
justice, is obliged to make a representation to that
of Pennsylvania; that of Pennsylvania again is to
make a representation to that of Virginia. And
whether the murderers shall be brought to justice
at all, must depend upon the particular policy and
energy and good disposition of two State govern-
ments and the efficacy of the provisions of their re-

' The other parts of this letter are not to be found.

Private Correspondence 479

spective laws ; and the security of other States, and
the money of all, are at the discretion of one. These
things require a remedy.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, April 17, 1791.

You will probably recollect that previous to your
departure from this place, anticipating the event
which has taken place with regard to the death of
Mr. Everleigh, I took the liberty to mention to you
that Mr. Wolcott, the present Auditor, woiild be in
every respect worthy of your consideration as his
successor in office.

Now that the event has happened, a concern as
anxious as it was natural for the success of the depart-
ment, united with a sentiment of justice towards
Mr. Wolcott, leads me to a repetition of that idea.
This gentleman's conduct in the station he now fills
has been that of an excellent officer. It has not
only been good, but distinguished. It has com-
bined all the requisites which can be desired : mod-
eration with firmness, liberality with exactness,
indefatigable industry with an accurate and sound
discernment, a thorough knowledge of business, and
a remarkable spirit of order and arrangement. In-
deed, I ought to say that I owe very much of what-
ever success may have attended the merely executive
operations of the department to Mr. Wolcott; and
I do not fear to commit myself when I add that he
possesses in an eminent degree all the qualifications

480 Alexander Hamilton

desirable in a Comptroller of the Treasury — that it
is scarcely possible to find a man in the United States
more competent to the duties of that station than
himself; few who could be equally so. It may be
truly said of him that he is a man of rare merit, and
I have good evidence that he has been viewed in
this light by the members of Congress extensively
from different quarters of the Union, and is so con-
sidered by all that part of the public who have had
opportunities of witnessing his conduct.

The immediate relation, too, which his present
situation bears to that of Comptroller is a strong
argument in his favor. Though a regular gradation
of office is not admissible in a strict sense in regard
to offices of a civil nature, and is wholly inapplicable
to those of the first rank (such as the heads of the
great executive departments), yet a certain regard
to the relation which one situation bears to another
is consonant with the natural ideas of justice, and is
recommended by powerful considerations of policy.
The expectation of promotion in civil as in military
life is a great stimulus to virtuous exertion, while
examples of unrewarded exertion, supported by
talent and qualification, are proportionable discour-
agements. Where they do not produce resignations
they leave men dissatisfied, and a dissatisfied man
seldom does his duty well.

In a government like ours, where pecuniary com-
pensations are moderate, the principle of gradual
advancement as a reward for good conduct is per-
haps more necessary to be attended to than in others
where offices are more lucrative. By due attention

Private Correspondence 481

to it it will operate as a means to secure respectable
men for offices of inferior emolument and conse-
quence.

In addition to the rest, Mr. Wolcott's experience
in this particular line pleads powerfully in his favor.
This experience may be dated back to his office of
Comptroller of the State of Connecticut, and has
been perfected by practice in his present place.

A question may perhaps, sir, arise in your mind,
whether some inconvenience may not attend his
removal from his present office. I am of opinion
that no sensible inconvenience will be felt on this
score, since it will be easy for him as Comptroller,
who is the immediate superior of the Auditor, to
form any man of business for the office he will leave,
in a short period of time. More inconvenience
would be felt by the introduction of a Comptroller
not in the immediate train of the business.

Besides this, it may be observed that a degree of
inconvenience on this score cannot be deemed an
obstacle, but upon the principle which would bar
the progress of merit from one station to another.

On this point of inconvenience a reflection occurs,
which I think I ought not to suppress. Mr. Wolcott
is a man of sensibility, not unconscious of his own
value, and he doubtless must believe that he has
pretensions from situation to the office. Should
another be appointed, and he resign, the derange-
ment of the department would truly be distressing
to the public service.

In suggesting thus particularly the reasons which
in my mind operate in favor of Mr. Wolcott, I am

VOL. IX.— 31.

482 Alexander Hamilton

influenced by information that other characters will
be brought to your view by weighty advocates, and
as I think it more than possible that Mr. Wolcott
may not be mentioned to you by any other person
than myself, I feel it a duty arising out of my situa-
tion in the department, to bear my full and explicit
testimony to his worth, confident that he will justify
by every kind of substantial merit any mark of your
approbation which he may receive.

I trust, sir, that in thus freely disclosing my sen-
timents to you, you will be persuaded that I only
yield to the suggestions of an honest zeal for the
public good, and of a firm conviction that the pros-
perity of the department under my particular care
(one so interesting to the aggregate movements of
the government) will be best promoted by trans-
ferring the present Auditor to the ofiice of Comp-
troller of the Treasury.

TO WASHINGTON
gjj^» Philadelphia, June 19, 1791.

I have been duly honored with your letter of the
13th inst., from Mount Vernon; and, according to
your desire have informed Mr. Wolcott of your in-
tention to appoint him Comptroller. This appoint-
ment gives me particular pleasure, as I am confident
it will be a great and real improvement in the state
of the Treasury Department. There can no material
inconvenience attend the postponing a decision con-
cerning the future Auditor till your arrival in this
city.

Private Correspondence 483

I am very happy to learn that the circumstances
of your journey have been in all respects so favorable.
It has certainly been a particularly fortunate one,
and I doubt not it will have been of real utility.

There is nothing which can be said to be new here
worth communicating, except generally that all my
accoimts from Europe, both private and official,
concur in proving that the impressions now enter-
tained of our government and its affairs (I may say)
throughout that quarter of the globe, are of a nature
the most flattering and pleasing.

TO BENJAMIN GOODHUE *

Philadelphia, June 30, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

As Mr. Cone, who, I think, informed me he had a
letter from you on the same subject, imdertook to
say all that could be said in relation to Mr. Gray^s
affair, I permitted the hurry of business to keep me
silent. Nothing further concerning the affair has
since come to me, so that I am wholly ignorant what
turn it may have taken. It must have given you
pleasure to learn how much the Constitution of the
United States, and the measures under it, in which
you have had so considerable an agency, have con-
tributed to raise this country in the estimation of
Europe. According to the accounts received here,
the change which has been wrought in the opinion
of that part of the world respecting the United

^ Benjamin Goodhue, of Salem, Member of Congress from Massa-
chusetts.

4^4 Alexander Hamilton

States is almost wonderful. The British Cabinet
wish to be thought disposed to enter into amicable
and liberal arrangements with us. They had ap-
pointed Mr. Elliott, who, on private considerations,
had declined; and it is affirmed from pretty good,
though not decisive authority, that they have sub-
stituted a Mr. Hammond, and that his arrival may
shortly be expected. I would not warrant the issue,
but if some liberal arrangement with Great Britain
should ensue, it will have a prodigious effect upon
the conduct of some other parts of Europe. It is,
however, most wise for us to depend as little as pos-
sible upon European caprice, and to exert ourselves
to the utmost to unfold and improve every domestic
resource.

In all appearance, the subscriptions to the Bank
of the United States will proceed with astonishing
rapidity. It will not be surprising if a week com-
pletes them.

TO MRS. MARTHA WALKER
Madam : Philadelphia, July 2, 1791.

Mr. Ames ' has conveyed to me your letter of the
9th of May.

Hitherto it has not been in my power to consider
the merits of your application to Congress, but you
may be assured of its being done so as to admit of a
report at the commencement of the ensuing session.

' Fisher Ames, Member of Congress from Massachusetts, and well
known for his ability and eloquence. I can find nothing in the State
papers or in the Annals of Congress to explain Mrs. Walker or her
claim.

Private Correspondence 4^5

While I dare not encourage any expectation, and
while my conduct must be determined by my sense
of official propriety and duty, I may with great truth
say that I shall enter into the examination with
every prepossession which can be inspired by favor-
able impression of personal merit, and by a sym-
pathetic participation in the distresses of a lady as
deserving as unfortunate.

TO RUFUS KING

My Dear Sir: Juiys.iypi.

I received your letter on a certain subject, and
was obliged by it. But there was nothing practica-
ble by way of remedy.

The thing, as it has turned out, though good in the
main, has certainly some ill sides. There have also
been faults in the detail, which are not favorable to
complete satisfaction. But what shall we do? 'T is
the lot of every thing human to mingle a portion of
evil with the good.

The President, as you will have seen, has re-
turned. His journey has done good, as it regards
his own impressions. He is persuaded that the
dispositions of the Southern people are good, and
that certain pictures which have been drawn have
been strongly colored by the imagination of the
drawers.

We have just heard from the Westward, but of no
event of importance. Things are said to have been
in good preparation; the people of Kentucky won-
derfully pleased with the government; and Scot,

4^6 Alexander Hamilton

with a corps of ardent volunteers, on their route to
demolish every savage, man, woman, and child.

On Tuesday next I expect to leave this for New
York, with Mrs. Hamilton.

TO RUFUS KING

August 7, 1791.

Your letter of Monday evening has a good deal
tranquillized me. I am glad to learn that the mis-
chiefs from the over-use of scrip are not likely to be
very extensive.

I observe what you say respecting the quotation
of my opinion. I was not unaware of the delicacy
of giving any, and was sufficiently reserved until I
perceived the extreme to which bank scrip, and with
it other stock, was tending. But when I saw this I
thought it advisable to speak out — ^for a bubble
connected with any operation is, of all the enemies I
have to fear, in my judgment the most formidable ;
and not only not to promote, but, as far as depends
on me, to counteract, delusions, appears to me
to be the only secure foundation on which to
stand. I thought it expedient, therefore, to risk
some thing in contributing to dissolve the charm.
But I find that I have been misquoted. Speaking of
sales on time at seventy-four shillings for 6 per cent.,
etc., I think it probable I may have intimated an
opinion that they went faster than could be sup-
ported. But it is untrue that I have given as a
standard prices below those of the market, as men-
tioned by you. On the contrary, my standard, on

Private Correspondence 487

pretty mature reflection, has been and is nearly as
follows :

For bank scrip
6 per cents
3 per cents
Deferred
22
12

I proceed on the idea of 5 per cent, interest —
taking at the same time into calculation the partial
irredeemability of the 6 per cents.

I give you my standard, that you may be able if
necessary to contradict insinuations of an estima-
tion on my part short of that standard — for the pur-
pose of depressing the funds.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

Philadelphia, Aug. 13, 1791.

Dear Sir:

Some investigations in which I am engaged in-
duce a wish to be able to form as accurate an idea as
can be obtained of the usual product in proportion
to the value of cultivated lands in different parts of
the United States.

As I am persuaded no person can better assist me
in this object than yourself, I take the liberty to
ask the favor of your assistance.

It has occurred to me that if the actual product on
cultivated farms of middling quality could be ascer-
tained with tolerable precision, it might afford as
good a rule by which to judge as the nature of the
thing admits of.

4^8 Alexander Hamilton

With this view I have prepared a form with a num-
ber of columns under heads specifying the different
kinds of produce usual in your quarter, in order that
they may be filled in each case according to the fact
and as the nature of each head shall require.

There are besides some additional columns which
respect the total value of the farm and the different
kinds of land of which it consists.

The value of the farm must be determined not by
what it would fetch in cash on a forced or sudden
sale, but by what it would sell for at a reasonable and
usual credit, or perhaps by what the opinion of the
neighborhood would compute to be its true value.

The quantity of each kind of land must conform
to the actual quantity in cultivation at the time for
which the product is taken.

It is submitted to your judgment, according to
circumstances, whether to determine the product by
the average of a series of years, three or more, or by
what has been considered as a year of middling
fertility.

The price ought to express the value of each ar-
ticle on the farm. Perhaps to determine this there
is no better rule than to deduct the expense of trans-
portation, from the price at the nearest usual market.
The high price of an extraordinary year would not
be a proper criterion ; but that which is deemed by
intelligent and reasonable farmers a good saving
price.

If not inconvenient to you to execute my present
request, you will add to the favor by explaining in
each case the rule by which you have proceeded;

Private Correspondence
and if it would not be attended with too much
trouble, the extension of the inquiry to two or three
different farms would be satisfactory.

In a matter with which I am not very familiar, it
is possible I may have omitted circumstances of im-
portance to the object of my inquiry. The supply-
ing of such omissions will be particularly acceptable.

As whatever comes from the Treasury is apt to
be suspected of having reference to some scheme of
taxation, it is my wish that the knowledge of this
request may be confined to yourself. And I think
it not amiss to add that in truth it has not the most
remote reference to any such purpose.'

I Now first printed from the Pickering papers in the possession of the

Massachusetts Historical Society.
The form inclosed is as follows:

Value of Farm

Kinds

Acres of Arable Land

OF

Acres of Pasture Land

Land

Acres of Meadow

Acres of Woodland

Bushels of Wheat

Bushels of Rye

Bushels of Com

Bushels of Oats

Bushels of Barley

Bushels of Buckwheat

Annual

Bushels of Potatoes

Other Roots and Vegetables in
Value

Product

Black Cattle

Horses

Sheep

Hogs

Dozens of Poultry

Pounds of Tobacco

Cords of Wood Consumed in Fuel..
Hay

Quantity Consumed by Cattle and Poultry.

Prices.

490 Alexander Hamilton

TO WILLIAM SETON

Treasury Department, Aug. 15, 1791.

Inclosed is a resolution of the Trustees of the
Sinking Fund, appropriating a certain sum for the
purchase of public debt, within certain limits therein
specified; in consequence of that resolution I have
concluded to apply one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars towards purchases in the city of New York,
and to ask you to undertake the execution of the
business. In thus forbearing to employ some officer
of the United States, and having recourse to yoiir
aid, I am governed by the consideration that your
situation would lead to such an execution of the
business as might at the same time best consist with
the accommodation of the Bank of New York.

Inclosed is a letter to the directors of the bank, re-
questing them to pay to you the above-mentioned
sum. You will, of course, however, only avail your-
self of this authority in proportion to the actual
purchases you shall make, as you will please to ad-
vise me weekly of such as you may be able to effect.
The Trustees have never yet determined on any
allowance to the persons who have been employed
in similar purchases, nor is it clear how much is in
their power on this point. I can therefore only say
that the same rule will govern in your case as in that
of others.'

I Now first printed, with the inclosures which follow, from the
Hamilton papers in the State Department.
(Inclosure.)

Whereupon it is Resolved:

I. That the aforesaid sum to purchase, at the following rates: To
the purchase of funded stock, bearing a present interest of six per

Private Correspondence 491

TO WILLIAM SETON
(Private.)

Philadelphia, Aug, i6, 1791.

I send you herewith an official letter; this private
one I write as explanatory of it. I hardly expect
that you will be able to procure the debt within the
limits prescribed, and yet I do not know what effect
the imprudent speculations in bank scrip may pro-
duce. A principal object with me is to keep the
stock from falling too low in case the embar-
rassments of the dealers should lead to sacrifices;
whence you will infer that it is not my wish that the

centum, at twenty shillings in the pound; funded debt, bearing an
interest of three per centum, at twelve shillings in the poimd; and
deferred debt, at twelve shillings and six-pence in the pound.

2. That if any of the aforesaid species of debt be lower than the
rates here fixed, preference be given to it.

3. That any surplus of the said purchase money or the whole, as
the case, imder the preceding circumstances may be, be applied in the
first instance to the purchases of the three per cents and the deferred
debt, as far as they can be obtained, and afterwards to the purchase
of funded stock of six per cent.

4. That the cities of Philadelphia and New York be the places of
purchases.

In behalf of the Board,

(Signed) Th. Jefferson.

(Inclosure.)

To the President, Directors, and Co. of the Bank of New York:

Treasury Department, Aug. 16, 1791.
Gentlemen:

You will please cause to be paid to William Seton, Esq., such sums,
not exceeding in the whole one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, as
he may require, to be applied by him towards purchases of the public
debt, at the request of the Trustees of the Sinking Fund; the advances
you shall make, when known, will be covered in the requisite forms.

Yours, etc.,
(Signed) A. Hamilton.

492 Alexander Hamilton

purchases should be below the prescribed limits, yet
if such should unfortunately be the state of the
market, it must of course govern. The limits as-
signed for the purchases of 3-per-cents and deferred
debt are founded on a calculation of the government
rate of interest being 5 per cent. The same rule has
not been extended to the stock bearing an imme-
diate interest of 6 per cent., because the government
have a right to redeem it at par in certain propor-
tions; and though to individual purchasers it is
worth more than par, because a part only can be
redeemed, yet it is not at present the interest of the
government to give more than par for it, because of
the right to redeem a part. Indeed, the law limits
the commissioners in this particular. You will
recollect that the act requires that the purchases
should be made openly. This has been construed to
mean by a known agent for the public. When you
make a purchase, therefore, it will be proper that it
should be understood that it is on account of the
United States, but this need not precede the pur-
chase; and it will be best that there should be no
unnecessary demonstration, lest it should raise hopes
beyond what will be realized.

P. S. — If the prices of stocks should exceed the
prescribed limits, you may retain the letter to the
directors. If there are any gentlemen who support
the funds and others who depress them, I shall be
pleased that your purchases may aid the former, —
this in great confidence.

Private Correspondence 493

TO WILLIAM DUER

Philadelphia, Aug. 17, 1791.

My Dear Friend:

I have received your two letters of the 12th and
loth.

The subscription-book for the Manufacturing So-
ciety did not remain with me nor with either of the
two gentlemen who came on with me. Is it with
neither of those who accompanied you ? If it is not,
it must have been left at Brunswick, and you will
do well to write to some trusty person there to look
it up and send it to you. I am impatient for the
alterations which were agreed upon, and a list of the
subscribers.

La Roche may go to Scioto, if he can be back in
the time you mention.

I fear that in the hurry of writing my letter on
the subject of bank scrip, I must have expressed
myself more strongly than was intended.

The conversation here was: " Bank scrip is getting
so high as to become a bubble," in one breath; in
another: '' 'T is a South-Sea dream"; in a third:
''There is a combination of knowing ones at New
York to raise it as high as possible by fictitious pur-
chases, in order to take in the credulous and ig-
norant"; in another: '' Duer, Constable, and some
others are mounting the balloon as fast as possible.
If it don't soon burst, thousands will rue it," etc.,
etc.

As to myself, my friend, I think I know you too
well to suppose you capable of such views as were
implied in those mnuendoes, or to harbor the most

494 Alexander Hamilton

distant thought that you could wander from the
path either of public good or private integrity. But
I will honestly own I had serious fears for you — for
your purse and for your reputation; and with an
anxiety for both, I wrote to you in earnest terms.
You are sanguine, my friend. You ought to be
aware of it yourself and to be on your guard against
the propensity. I feared lest it might carry you
further than was consistent either with your own
safety or the public good. My friendship for you
and my concern for the public cause were both
alarmed. If the infatuation had continued pro-
gressive, and any extensive mischiefs had ensued,
you would certainly have had a large portion of the
blame. Conscious of this I wrote to you in all the
earnestness of apprehensive friendship.

I do not widely differ 'from you about the real
value of bank scrip. I should rather call it about
190, to be within bounds, with hopes of better things,
and I sincerely wish you may be able to support it
at what you mention. The acquisition of too much
of it by foreigners will certainly be an evil.

TO WILLIAM SETON

Treasury Department, Aug. 22, 1791.

I have to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the
1 8th. The transfer of the stock which you have
purchased on account of the United States must be
made to the Vice-President, the Chief -Justice, the

Private Correspondence 495

Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and
the Attorney -General for the time being.

In all future purchases, it will be most convenient
to have the stock in the first instance transferred as
here directed.'

TO WILLIAM SETON

Treasury Department, Sept. 7, 1791.

I write herewith to the directors of the Bank of
New York to advance you a further sum of fifty
thousand dollars towards purchases of the public
debt on account of the United States, on the same
principles with the sum heretofore advanced to you
for the like purpose.'

TO THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, ETC., OF THE BANK
OF NEW YORK

Treasury Department, Sept. 7, 1791.

Gentlemen :

I request you to furnish the cashier of your bank V ^
with the further sum of fifty thousand dollars, to be
by him applied towards purchases of the public
debts on account of the United States.

P. S. — A warrant will issue to-morrow to cover
the 150,000 dollars already advanced for the same
purpose.'

^ Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

'\Ai'

49^ Alexander Hamilton

TO WILLIAM SETON

(Private.)

September 7, 1791.

You will find by the letter herewith that you are
furnished with a further sum of 50,000 dollars for
purchases. I wish I could have gone farther, but
my hands are tied by the want of a majority of the
Trustees being present, Mr. Jefferson being just gone
to Virginia. The $50,000 now authorized, and the
sum appropriated here for the same purpose, com-
plete what has as yet been determined to be applied.

You may, however, make it known that the
treasurer is purchasing here, etc

TO WILLIAM SETON

(Private.)

September 8, 1791.

I wrote you a private letter last evening, which
went by a private opportunity. The principal
object was to inform you that I could not exceed
the sum now directed to be advanced for want of
authority, the present $50,000 completing the
sum heretofore appropriated by the Trustees, and
there not being here a sufficient number for a Board;
that purchases by the Treasurer were going on
here '

' Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

Private Correspondence 497

TO A FRIEND

September 30, 1791.

Dear Sir:

If you can conveniently let me have twenty dollars
for a few days, be so good as to send it by bearer. I
have just put myself out of cash by payment of
Major L 'Enfant 's bill.^

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, Oct. 11, 1791.

Sir:

Lord Wycomb having mentioned to me his inten-
tions to pay you his respects at Mount Vernon, I
beg your permission to present him to you.

The personal acquirements and permits of his
lordship conspire, with a consideration for the
friendly dispositions and liberal policy of his father,
the Marquis of Lansdowne, towards this country, to
constitute a claim in his favor to cordial notice.

TO GENERAL KNOX

October 17, 1791.

Dear Sir:

The following are the particulars in the President's
letter which he expects you to prepare.

^ Reprinted from Reminiscences of J. A. Hamilton, p. 7. The letter
is a curious one, because it shows how really pressed Hamilton was for
even small sums of money. On the back of the letter is the following:

Memorandum by the lender : — ' ' Gave a check for fifty dollars, dated
Sept. 30, 1791."

VOL. IX— 32.

49^ Alexander Hamilton

Expeditions against the Indians. Every pacific
measure was previously tried to produce accord and
avoid expense.

More pointed laws, with penalties to restrain our
own people; and this and good faith may produce
tranquillity.

Treaties with Cherokees and Six Nations, and
reasons.

I annex to the first the hints in the President's
letter.

You will, of course, send any other things that
occur on any points

TO WILLIAM SETON

November 25, 1791.

My Dear Sir:

I seize the first moment of leisure to answer your
letter of the 21st inst. Strange as it may appear to
you, it is not more strange than true that the whole
affair of branches was begun, continued, and ended,
not only without my participation, but against my
judgment.

When I say against my judgment, you will not
understand that my opinion was given and over-
ruled, for I never was consulted ; but that the steps
taken were contrary to my private opinion of the
course which ought to have been pursued.

I am sensible of the inconveniences to be appre-
hended, and I regret them, but I do not know that
it will be in my power to avert them.

^ Now first printed from the Knox papers in the possession of the
New England Historic Genealogical Society.

Private Correspondence 499

Ultimately it will be incumbent on me to place
the public funds in the keeping of the branch ; but it
may be depended upon that I shall precipitate nothing,
but shall so conduct the transfer as not to embarrass
or distress your institution. I have not time to say
more at present, except that if there are -finally to be
two institutions, my regard for you makes me wish
you may feel yourself at liberty to take your f ortime
with the branch which must preponderate.

TO PHILIP HAMILTON '

Philadelphia, Dec. 5, 1791.

I received with great pleasure, my dear Philip, the
letter which you wrote me last week. Your mamma
and myself were very happy to learn that you are
pleased with your situation, and content to stay as
long as shall be thought best for you. We hope and
believe that nothing will happen to alter this dispo-
sition. Your master also informs me that you re-
cited a lesson the first day you began, very much to
his satisfaction. I expect every letter from him will
give me a fresh proof of your progress, for I know you
can do a great deal if you please, and I am sure
you have too much spirit not to exert yourself that
you may make us every day more and more proud
of you. You remember that I engaged to send for
you next Saturday, and I will do it, unless you re-
quest me to put it off, for a promise must never be
broken, and I never will make you one which I wiE

' His eldest son.

500 Alexander Hamilton

not fill as far as I am able ; but it has occurred to me
that the Christmas holidays are near at hand, and I
suppose your school will then break up for a few
days and give you an opportunity of coming to stay
with us for a longer time than if you should come on
Saturday. Will it not be best, therefore, to put off
your journey till the holidays? But determine as
you like best, and let me know what will be most
pleasing to you. A good night to my darling son.'

TO NICHOLAS GOUVERNEUR ^

1792.

Mr. B. last evening delivered me your letter, en-
closing a copy of your correspondence with Mr.
Lewis. In one other respect I feel myself painfully
situated, having received a favorable impression of
your character. I am sorry to observe any thing to
have come from you which I am obliged to consider
as exceptionable. Your second letter to Mr. Lewis
contains a general, and of course an unjustifiable re-
flection on the profession to which I belong, and of
a nature to put it out of my power to render you any
service in the line of that profession. I really be-
lieve that you did not attend to the full force of the
expression when you tell Mr. Lewis, ''Attorneys like
to make the most of their bills of cost ' ' ; but it con-
tains in it other insinuations which cannot be pleas-
ing to any man in the profession, and which must
oblige any one that has the proper delicacy to de-

^ Reprinted from the Reminiscences of J. A. Hamilton, p. 4.
2 A merchant of New York.

Private Correspondence 501

cline the business of a person who professedly enter-
tains such an idea of the conduct of this profession.
I make allowance for your feelings when you wrote
that letter, and am therefore reluctantly drawn into
these observations.'

TO GULIAN VERPLANCK AND OTHERS

Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1792.

Gentlemen:

The mark of esteem on the part of fellow-citizens,
to whom I am attached by so many ties, which is
announced in your letter of 29th of December, is
entitled to my affectionate acknowledgments.

I shall cheerfully obey their wish as far as respects
the taking of my portrait, but I ask that they will
permit it to appear unconnected with any incident
of my political life. The simple representation of
their fellow-citizen and friend will best accord with
my feelings.

TO WILLIAM SETON

Philadelphia, Jan. 24, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I feel great satisfaction in knowing from yourself
that your institution rejects the idea of a coalition
with the new project, or rather hydra of projects.

I shall labor to give what has taken place a turn
favorable to another union, the propriety of which is,
as you say, clearly illustrated by the present state of

^ Reprinted from Reminiscences of J. A. Hamilton, p. 6.

502 Alexander Hamilton

things. It is my wish that the Bank of New York
may, by all means, continue to receive deposits from
the Collector in the paper of the Bank of the United
States, and that they may also receive payment for
the Dutch bills in the same paper. This paper may
either be remitted to the Treasurer, or remain in the
bank, as itself shall deem most expedient. I have
explicitly directed the Treasurer to forbear drawing
on the Bank of New York without special direction
from me. And my intention is to leave you in pos-
session of all the money you have or may receive till
I am assured that the present storm is effectually
weathered.

Everybody here sees the propriety of your having
refused the paper of the Bank of the United States
in such a crisis of your affairs. Be confidential with
me; if you are pressed, whatever support may be in
my power shall be afforded. I consider the public
interest as materially involved in aiding a valuable
institution like yours to withstand the attacks of a
confederated host of frantic and, I fear, in too many
instances, unprincipled gamblers.

Adieu. Heaven take care of good men and good
views!

TO WILLIAM DUER ^
My Dear DuER: Philadelphia, March 14. 1792.

Your letter of the nth got to hand this day. I
am affected beyond measure at its contents, especi-
ally as it was too late to have any influence upon the

* Duer had speculated deeply and failed disastrously.

Private Correspondence 5^3

event you were apprehensive of, Mr. Wolcott's in-
structions having gone off yesterday.

I trust, however, the alternative which they
present to the attorney of the , and the dis-

cretion he will use in managing the affair, will enable
you to avoid any pernicious Mat, if your affairs are
otherwise retrievable.

Be this as it may, act with fortittide and honor. If
you cannot reasonably hope for a favorable extrica-
tion, do not plunge deeper. Have the courage to
make a full stop. Take all the care you can in the
first place of institutions of public utility, and in the
next of all fair creditors.

God bless you, and take care of you and your
family. I have experienced all the bitterness of
soul on your account which a warm attachment can
inspire. I will not now pain you with any wise re-
marks, though if you recover the present stroke, I
shall take great liberties with you. Assure yourself,
in good and bad fortune, of my sincere friendship and
affection.

TO WILLIAM SETON

(Private)

Philadelphia, March 25, 1792.

If six per cents, should sink below par, you may
purchase on account of the United States at par to
the extent of fifty thousand dollars. You will not,
however, declare on whose account you act, because,
though there is, as to a purchase on that principle,

504 Alexander Hamilton

no difference of opinion among the trustees, the
thing is not formally arranged, and this is Sunday.

It will be very probably conjectured that you ap-
pear for the public, and the conjecture may be left
to have its course, but without confession. The pur-
chase ought, in the present state of things, to be at
auction, and not till to-morrow evening. But if the
purchase at auction will not tend as well to the pur-
pose of relief as a different mode, it may be departed
from; the usual note must be made of persons, time,
etc. You will consider whether done all at once, or
a part now and a part then, will best answer the pur-
pose; in the state of this market the latter mode is
foimd preferable. I have just received a letter from
Mr. Short, our minister resident, dated Amsterdam,
28th December, by which he informs me that he
has effected a loan for three millions of florins at four
per cent, interest, on account of the United States.
This may be announced ; and as, in the present mo-
ment of suspicion, some minds may be disposed to
consider the thing as a mere expedient to support
the stocks, I pledge my honor for its exact truth.
Why then so much despondency among the hold-
ers of our stock? When foreigners lend the United
States at four per cent., will they not purchase here
upon a similar scale, making reasonable allowance
for expense of agency, etc.? Why then do indi-
viduals part with so good a property so much
below its value? Does Duer's failure affect the
solidity of the government?

After paying the present quarter's interest I shall
have near a million dollars in cash, and a million

Private Correspondence 5^5

more in bonds from the duties of last year. All this
is truly so much beforehand. The duties for the
current year being fully adequate to the objects of
the year, except the further sum of about five hun-
dred thousand dollars for the western expedition,
for which the ways and means have been proposed.
Is the treasury of Great Britain comparatively in
so good a state ? Is the nation comparatively so
equal to its debt? Why then so much depression?
I shall be answered, The immediate necessity for
money. But if the banks are forbearing as to the
necessity of paying up, cannot the parties give each
other mutual credit and avoid so great a press? If
there are a few harpies who will not concur in this
forbearance, let such be paid and execrated, and let
others forbear. The necessity of great sacrifices
among your dealers cannot affect the nation, but it
may deeply wound the city of New York by a trans-
fer to foreigners and citizens of other States of a
large mass of property greatly below its value. The
face of your affairs may undergo for a considerable
time a serious change. Would not the plan I sug-
gested to you in my last be a means of securing more
effectually the debts due to the bank by accepting in
part payment the credits on your books?

While I encourage due exertion in the banks, I
observe that I hope they will put nothing to risk.
No calamity truly public can happen while these in-
stitutions remain sound. They must, therefore, not
yield too far to the impulse of circumstances.

5o6 Alexander Hamilton

TO WILLIAM SETON

(Private)

Philadelphia, April 4, 1792.

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you.
I am pained beyond expression at the picture you
and others give me of the situation of my fellow-
citizens, especially as an ignorance of the extent of
the disorder renders it impossible to judge whether
any adequate remedy can be applied.

You may apply another 50,000 dollars to pur-
chases at such a time as you judge it can be rend-
ered most useful. The prices may be 20^. for 6 per
cents., 125. for 3 per cents., and 125. dd. for deferred.
The law and the object require that it should be
known you purchase for the public. I shall by the
next post send an official authorization.

I have doubt, however, whether it will be best to
apply this immediately or wait the happening of the
crisis, which I fear is inevitable. If, as is represented,
a pretty extensive explosion is to take place, the de-
pression of the funds at such a moment will be in the
extreme, and then it may be more important than
now to enter the market in force. I can in such a
a case without difficulty add a hundred thousand
dollars — probably a larger sum. But you, who are
on the spot, being best able to calculate consequences,
I leave the proper moment of operating to your judg-
ment. To relieve the distressed and support the
funds are primary objects. As it may possibly be-
come advisable for the bank to receive payments in
stock from embarrassed persons, it may not be amiss
that you should know as a guide that there are at

Private Correspondence 507

this moment orders from a respectable Dutch con-
cern to purchase 6 per cents, at 245. if bills can be
sold at par; of this I have the most unequivocal evi-
dence. This is a proof that foreigners will be willing
to give that price. How vexatious that imprudent
speculations of individuals should lead to an aliena-
tion of the national property at such under-rates as
are now given ! I presume your greatest embarrass-
ments arise from the contracts to pay and deliver
not yet at issue. Is it possible to form any conjec-
ture of their extent?

TO WILLIAM SETON

(Private.)

Philadelphia, April 12, 1792.

I have your letters of the loth and nth, and, more
to my distress and surprise, I learn by other letters
a confirmation of what you apprehended, namely,
Mr. Macomb's failure. This misfortune has, I fear, a
long tail to it.

The enclosed, you will perceive, gives you addi-
tional latitude. The terms as heretofore for 6 per
cents., 205.; 3 per cents. 12s.; and deferred 125. 6d.

You must judge of the best mode and manner of
applying the sum. The operation here not being ex-
tensive, I have found it best to eke out my aid. I
doubt whether this will answer with you. My reason
was to keep up men's spirits by appearing often,
though not much at one time. All is left to you.
You will doubtless be cautious in securing your
transfer before you pay.

5o8 Alexander Hamilton

TO THE DIRECTORS AND COMPANY OF THE BANK OF

NEW YORK

Treasury Department, April 12, 1792.

Gentlemen :

Since my official letter to you authorizing an ad-
vance to your cashier of fifty thousand dollars, to be
applied to the purchase of public debt on account of
the United States, I have authorized that gentleman
to apply for another fifty thousand dollars, and to
make the like use of it. I now confirm this direction,
and add my desire that he may be furnished with a
further sum of fifty thousand dollars, making in the
whole one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, the
whole for the purpose above mentioned.

TO WILLIAM DUER

April 22, 1792.

My Dear Duer:

I hoped ere this to have seen you, to have afforded
you whatever of aid could have resulted from my
advice, after knowing your real situation. But the
session protracts itself, and I can scarcely say when
it will finish. Lest the information contained in
my last should induce you to postpone an arrange-
ment with your creditors in the hope of speedily
having an opportunity of consulting me, I have
thought it best to apprise you of the degree of delay
which may attend my proposed visit to New York.
Indeed, I can hardly flatter myself that my advice
could be of any real importance to you.

Private Correspondence 5^9

How are you? How are your family? At a mo-
ment of composure I shall be glad to hear from you.

Eliza joins me in affectionate remembrances to
Lady Kitty/ Farewell.

TO WILLIAM SETON

Treasury Department, May lo, 1792.

Sir:

I received your letter of the 7th inst., covering an
account of stock purchased by you for the United
States.

I observe that you have exceeded the sum which
was limited by me to the amount of one thousand and
ninety-eight dollars and eighty-nine cents; but so
small a difference is not very material, and I am
willing that the whole should remain on accoimt of
the United States.

In order to a winding up of the business, I have
now to request that you will, as soon as it can be
conveniently done, cause all the stock to be trans-
ferred in the names of the trustees as heretofore, and
that you will then procure from the commissioner
and forward to me the necessary certificates for
transferring the stock from the books of the commis-
sioner to those of the treasurer.

' " Lady Kitty" was Duer's wife. Mrs. Duer who was a beauty and
belle in the society of that day (see Griswold's Republican Court) was
Katherine Alexander, daughter of William Alexander, the unsuccessful
claimant to the earldom of Stirling. He was, as is well known, a dis-
tinguished officer in our war for independence, and was commonly
called "Lord Stirling," from which his youngest daughter came to be
known as "Lady Kitty."

5IO Alexander Hamilton

You will please to accept of my best acknowledg-
ment for this additional mark of your zeal for the
public service, and believe me to be, etc.

TO WILLIAM DUER

May 23, 1792.

My dear Duer, five minutes ago I received youi*
letter of yesterday. I hasten to express to you my
thoughts, as your situation does not permit of delay.
I am of opinion that those friends who have lent you
their money or security from personal confidence in
your honor, and without being interested in the
operations in which you may have been engaged,
ought to be taken care of absolutely, and preferably
to all creditors. In the next place, public institu-
tions ought to be secured. On this point the manu-
facturing society will claim peculiar regard. I am
told the funds of that society have been drawn out
of both banks ; I trust they are not diverted. The
public interest and my reputation are deeply con-
cerned in the matter. Your affairs with the govern-
ment, as connected with your office as assistant to
the Board of Treasury, will deserve your particular
attention. Persons of whom you have made actual
purchases and whose property has been delivered to
you, would stand next after public institutions.
But here perhaps some arbitration may be made. It
would certainly be desirable to distinguish between
the price of stock at the time of purchase and its en-
hanced price upon time. With regard to contracts
merely executory, and in regard to which differences
would be to be paid, no stock having been delivered,

Private Correspondence 5'^

I postpone claims of this nature to all others. They
ought not to interfere with any claim which is
founded on value actually given. As to the usurious
tribe: these present themselves under different as-
pects. Are these women, or ignorant people, or
trustees of infants ? The real principal advanced
and legal interest would, in such cases, stand, in my
mind, on high ground. The mere veteran usurers
may be taken greater liberties with. Their real
principal and interest, however, abstracted from
usurious accumulation, would stand better than
claims constituted wholly by profits from specula-
tive bargains. But the following course deserves
consideration: Take care of debts to friends who
have aided you by their money or credit disinterest-
edly, and the public institutions. Assign the rest of
your property for the benefit of creditors generally.
The law will do the rest. Whenever usury can be
proved, the contract, I take it, will be null. Where
it cannot be proved, the parties will be obliged to
acknowledge on oath, and then their principal and
interest only will be due. Wherever a fair account
can be stated, and all the sums borrowed and paid
can be set against each other, it is probable it will be
found that more has been paid than, on a computa-
tion of legal interest, was ever received. Here, I
presume, the demand would be extinguished, and
possibly the parties would be compelled to disgorge.
These are rather desultory thoughts than a system-
atic view of the subject. I wish I had more time to
form a more digested opinion, but as I have not you
must take what I can give. Adieu, my unfortunate

512 Alexander Hamilton

friend. God bless you and extricate you with re-
putation. Again adieu. Be honorable, calm, and
firm.*

TO WILLIAM SETON

Philadelphia, May 25, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

The society for the establishmg of useful manu-
factures, at their last meeting resolved to borrow
a sum of five thousand dollars upon a pledge of de-
ferred stock. Mr. Walker is empowered to nego-
tiate the loan, and I expect application will be made
to the Bank of New York for it. I have a strong
wish that the directors of that bank may be disposed
to give facilities to this institution upon terms of
perfect safety to itself. I will add that from its
situation it is much the interest of our city that it
should succeed. It is not difficult to discern the
advantage of being the immediate market of a con-
siderable manufacturing town. A pledge of public
stock will completely fulfil the idea of perfect secur-
ity. I will add more, that in my opinion banks
ought to afford accommodation in such cases upon
easy terms of interest. I think five per cent, ought
to suffice, for a direct public good is presented. And
institutions of this kind, within reasonable limits,
ought to consider it as a principal object to promote
beneficial public purposes.

To you, my dear sir, I will not scruple to say in
confidence that the Bank of New York shall suffer no

^ Reprinted from the History of the Republic, iv., 289.

Private Correspondence 513

diminution of its pecuniary facilities from any ac-
commodation it may afford to the society in ques-
tion. I feel my reputation much concerned in its
welfare.

I would not wish any formal communication of
this letter to the directors, but you may make
known my wishes to such of them as you may judge
expedient.

TO COLONEL EDWARD CARRINGTON '

Philadelphia, May 26, 1792. ^ ^ ^ ,^ -^^

My Dear Sir:

Believing that I possess a share of your personal / - ^/ ^
friendship and confidence, and yielding to that which
I feel towards you; persuaded also, that our political
creed is the same on two essential points — first, the
necessity of Union to the respectability and happi-
ness of this country, and second, the necessity of an
efficient general government to maintain the Union,
I have concluded to unbosom myself to you, on the
present state of political parties and views. I will
ask no reply to what I shall say ; I only ask that you
will be persuaded the representations I shall make
are agreeable to the real and sincere impressions of
my mind. You will make the due allowance for the
influence of circumstances upon it; you will consult
your own observations, and you will draw such a
conclusion as shall appear to you proper. When I
accepted the office I now hold, it was imder full per-
suasion, that from similarity of thinking, conspiring

^ Col. Carrington, of Virginia, was an old and trusted friend of
Hamilton.

VOL. IX.— 33.

514 Alexander Hamilton

with personal good-will, I should have the firm sup-
port of Mr. Madison, in the general course of my
administration. Aware of the intrinsic difficulties
of the situation, and of the powers of Mr. Madison, I
do not believe I should have accepted under a differ-
ent supposition. I have mentioned the similarity of
thinking between that gentleman and myself. This
was relative, not merely to the general principles of
national policy and government, but to the leading
points, which were likely to constitute questions in
the administration of the finances. I mean, first,
the expediency of ftmding the debt; second, the in-
expediency of discrimination between original and
present holders; third, the expediency of assuming
the State debts.

As to the first point, the evidence of Mr. Madison's
sentiments, at one period, is to be found in the ad-
dress of Congress, of April twenty-sixth, seventeen
hundred and eighty- three, which was planned by
him, in conformity to his own ideas, and without any
previous suggestions from the committee, and with
his hearty co-operation in every part of the business.
His conversations upon various occasions since have
been expressive of a continuance in the same senti-
ment ; nor, indeed, has he yet contradicted it, by any
part of his official conduct. How far there is reason
to apprehend a change in this particular, will be
stated hereafter. As to the second part, the same
address is an evidence of Mr. Madison's sentiments
at the same period. And I had been informed that
at a later period he had been, in the Legislature of
Virginia, a strenuous and successful opponent of the

Private Correspondence 515

principle of discrimination. Add to this, that a
variety of conversations had taken place between
him and myself, respecting the public debt, down to
the commencement of the new government, in none
of which had he glanced at the idea of a change of
opinion. I wrote him a letter after my appointment,
in the recess of Congress, to obtain his sentiments
on the subject of the finances. In his answer, there
is not a lisp of his new system.

As to the third point, the question of an assump-
tion of the State debts by the United States was in
discussion when the convention that framed the
present government was sitting at Philadelphia, and
in a long conversation which I had with Mr. Madison
in an afternoon's walk, I well remember that we were
perfectly agreed in the expediency and propriety of
such a measure; though we were both of opinion
that it would be more advisable to make it a measure
of administration than an article of Constitution,
from the impolicy of multiplying obstacles to its re-
ception on collateral details.

Under these circumstances you will naturally
imagine that it must have been matter of surprise
to me when I was apprised that it was Mr. Madison's
intention to oppose my plan on both the last-men-
tioned points. Before the debate commenced,' I
had a conversation with him on my report; in the
course of which I alluded to the calculation I had

^ Hamilton to Madison: "If Mr. Madison shotdd be disengaged this
evening, Mr. Hamilton would be obliged by an opportunity of con-
versing with him at his lodgings for half an hour. If engaged this
evening he will thank him to say whether to-morrow evening will s\iit.
Wednesday."

5i6 Alexander Hamilton

made of his sentiments, and the grounds of that cal-
culation. He did not deny them; but alleged in his
justification that the very considerable alienation of
the debt, subsequent to the periods at which he had
opposed a discrimination, had essentially changed
the state of the question ; and that as to the assump-
tion, he had contemplated it to take place as matters
stood at the peace. While the change of opinion
avowed on the point of discrimination diminished
my respect for the force of Mr. Madison's mind and
the soundness of his judgment; and while the idea
of reserving and setting afloat a vast mass of already
extinguished debt, as the condition of a measure,
the leading objects of which were an accession of
strength to the national government, and an assur-
ance of order and vigor in the national finances, by
doing away with the necessity of thirteen complicated
and conflicting systems of finance, appeared to me
somewhat extraordinary, yet my previous impres-
sions of the fairness of Mr. Madison's character, and
my reliance on his good-will towards me, disposed me
to believe that his suggestions were sincere, and even
on the point of an assumption of the debts of the
States as they stood at the peace, to lean towards
a co-operation in his views, till on feeling the ground
I found the thing impracticable, and on further re-
flection I thought it liable to immense difliculties.
It was tried and failed with little countenance.

At this time and afterwards repeated intimations
were given to me that Mr. Madison, from a spirit of
rivalship, or some other cause, had become person-
ally unfriendly to me; and one gentleman in par-

Private Correspondence 517

ticular, whose honor I have no reason to doubt,
assured me that Mr. Madison, in a conversation with
him, had made a pretty direct attempt to insinuate
unfavorable impressions of me. Still I suspended
my opinion on the subject. I knew the malevolent
officiousness of mankind too well to yield a very
ready acquiescence to the suggestions which were
made, and resolved to wait till time and more ex-
perience should afford a solution. It was not till the
last session that I became unequivocally convinced
of the following truth: "that Mr. Madison, co-
operating with Mr. Jefferson, is at the head of a fac-
tion decidedly hostile to me and my administration;
and actuated by views, in my judgment, subversive
of the principles of good government and dangerous
to the Union, peace, and happiness of the country."

These are strong expressions, they may pain your
friendship for one or both of the gentlemen whom I
have named. I have not lightly resolved to hazard
them. They are the result of a serious alarm in my
mind for the public welfare, and of a ivHl conviction
that what I have alleged is a truth, and a truth
which ought to be told, and well attended to by
all the friends of the Union and efficient national
government. The suggestion will, I hope, at least,
awaken attention free from the bias of former pre-
possessions.

This conviction, in my mind, is the result of a
long train of circumstances, many of them minute.
To attempt to detail them all would fill a volume.
I shall therefore confine myself to the mention of a
few.

5i8 Alexander Hamilton

First. — As to the point of opposition to me and
my administration.

Mr. Jefferson, with very little reserve, manifests
his dislike of the fimding system generally, calling in
question the expediency of funding a debt at all.
Some expressions, which he has dropped in my pre-
sence (sometimes without sufficient attention to
delicacy), will not permit me to doubt on this point
representations which I have had from various re-
spectable quarters. I do not mean that he advo-
cates directly the undoing of what has been done,
but he censures the whole, on principles which, if
they should become general, could not but end in
the subversion of the system. In various conversa-
tions, with foreigners as well as citizens, he has
thrown censure on my principles of government and
on my measures of administration. He has pre-
dicted that the people would not long tolerate my
proceedings, and that I should not long maintain
my ground. Some of those whom he immediately
and notoriously moves have even whispered sus-
picions of the rectitude of my motives and conduct.
In the question concerning the bank he not only
delivered an opinion in writing against its constitu-
tionality and expediency, but he did it in a style and
manner which I felt as partaking of asperity and
ill humor toward me. As one of the trustees of the
sinking fund, I have experienced in almost every
leading question opposition from him. When any
turn of things in the community has threatened
either odium or embarrassment to me, he has not
been able to suppress the satisfaction which it gave

Private Correspondence 519

him. A part of this is, of course, information, and
might be misrepresentation, but it comes through so
many channels, and so well accords with what falls
under my own observation, that I can entertain no
doubt.

I find a strong confirmation in the following cir-
cumstances: Freneau, the present printer of the
National Gazette, who was a journeyman with Childs
& Swain, at New York, was a known Anti-federalist.
It is reduced to a certainty that he was brought to
Philadelphia by Mr. Jefferson to be the conductor of
a newspaper. It is notorious that contemporarily
with the commencement of his paper he was a clerk
in the Department of State, for foreign languages.
Hence a clear inference that his paper has been set
on foot and is conducted under the patronage and
not against the views of Mr. Jefferson. What then
is the complexion of this paper? Let any impartial
man peruse all the numbers down to the present day,
and I never was more mistaken if he does not pro-
nounce that it is a paper devoted to the subversion
of me and the measures in which I have had an
agency ; and I am little less mistaken if he does not
pronounce that it is a paper of a tendency generally
unfriendly to the government of the United States.
It may be said that a newspaper being open to all
the publications which are offered to it, its com-
plexion may be influenced by other views than those
of the editor. But the fact here is that whenever
the editor appears it is in a correspondent dress.
The paragraphs which appear as his own, the pub-
lications, not original, which are selected for his

^L^-h

520 Alexander Hamilton

press, are of the same malignant and unfriendly
aspect ; so as not to leave a doubt of the temper
which directs the publication. Again, Brown, who
publishes an evening paper called The Federal Ga-
zette ^ was originally a zealous Federalist, and person-
ally friendly to me. He has been employed by Mr.
Jefferson as a printer to the government for the pub-
lication of the laws, and for some time past, until
lately, the complexion of his press was equally bitter
and unfriendly to me and to the government.

Lately Col. Pickering, in consequence of certain
attacks upon him, got hold of some instances of mal-
conduct of his which have served to hold him in
check, and seemed to have varied his tone a little. I
don't lay so much stress on this last case as on the
former. There I find an internal evidence, which is
as conclusive as can be expected in any similar case.
Thus far as to Mr. Jefferson.

With regard to Mr. Madison, the matter stands
thus: I have not heard, but in the one instance to
which I have alluded, of his having held language
unfriendly to me in private conversation, but in his
public conduct there has been a more uniform and
persevering opposition than I have been able to
resolve into a sincere difference of opinion. I can-
not persuade myself that Mr. Madison and I, whose
politics had formerly so much the same point of de-
parture, should now diverge so widely in otir opinions
of the measures which are proper to be pursued.
The opinion I once entertained of the candor and
simplicity and fairness of Mr. Madison's character,
has, I acknowledge, given way to a decided opinion

Private Correspondence 521

that it is one of a peculiarly artificial and com-
plicated kind. For a considerable part of the last
session Mr. Madison lay in a great measure perdu.
But it was evident from his votes and a variety of
little movements and appearances, that he v^as the
prompter of Mr. Giles and others who were the open
instruments of the opposition. Two facts occurred
in the course of the session which I view as unequi-
vocal demonstrations of his disposition towards me.
In one, a direct and decisive blow was aimed. When
the Department of the Treasury was established,
Mr. Madison was an unequivocal advocate of the
principles which prevailed in it, and of the powers
and duties which were assigned by it to the head of
the department. This appeared, both from his
private and public discourse, and I will add, that I
have personal evidence that Mr. Madison is as well
convinced as any man in the United States of the
necessity of the arrangement which characterizes
that establishment, to the orderly conducting of the
business of the finances. Mr. Madison nevertheless
opposed a reference to me to report ways and means
for the Western expedition, and combated, on prin-
ciple, the propriety of such references.

He well knew that if he had prevailed a certain
consequence was my resignation; that I would not
be fool enough to make pecuniary sacrifices and en-
dure a life of extreme drudgery without opportunity
either to do material good or to acquire reputation,
and frequently with a responsibility in reputation for
measures in which I had no hand, and in respect to
which the part I had acted, if any, could not be

522 Alexander Hamilton

known. To accomplish this point an effectual train,
as was supposed, was laid. Besides those who or-
dinarily acted under Mr. Madison's banners, several
who had generally acted with me, from various
motives — vanity, self-importance, etc., etc., — ^were
enlisted.

My overthrow was anticipated as certain, and Mr.
Madison, laying aside his wonted caution, boldly led
his troops, as he imagined, to a certain victory. He
was disappointed. Though late, I became apprised
of the danger. Measures of counteraction were
adopted, and when the question was called Mr. Madi-
son was confounded to find characters votmg against
him whom he counted upon as certain. Towards the
close of the session another, though a more covert,
attack was made. It was in the shape of a proposi-
tion to insert in the supplementary act respecting
the public debt something by way of instruction to the
trustees ''to make their purchases of the debt at
the lowest market price." In the course of the dis-
cussion of this point Mr. Madison dealt much in in-
sidious insinuations calculated to give an impression
that the public money, under my particular direc-
tion, had been unfaithfully applied to put imdue
advantages in the pockets of speculators, and to
support the debt at an artificial price for their bene-
fit. The whole manner of this transaction left no
doubt in any one's mind that Mr. Madison was act-
uated by personal and political animosity. As to
this last instance, it is but candid to acknowledge
that Mr. Madison had a better right to act the enemy
than on any former occasion. I had, some short time

Private Correspondence 523

before, subsequent to his conduct respecting the
reference, declared openly my opinion of the views
by which he was actuated towards me, and my de-
termination to consider and treat him as a political
enemy. An intervening proof of Mr. Madison's un-
friendly intrigues to my disadvantage is to be found
in the following incident, which I relate to you upon
my honor, but, from the nature of it, you will per-
ceive in the strictest confidence: The President,
having prepared his speech at the commencement of
the ensuing session, communicated it to Mr. Madison
for his remarks. It contained, among other things,
a clause concerning weights and measures, hinting
the advantage of an invariable standard, which pre-
ceded, in the original state of the speech, a clause
containing the mint. Mr. Madison suggested a
transposition of these clauses and the addition of
certain words, which I now forget, imparting an im-
mediate connection between the two subjects. You
may recollect that Mr. Jefferson proposes that the
unit of weight and the unit in the coins shall be the
same, and that my propositions are to preserve the
dollar as a unit, adhering to its present quantity of
silver and establishing the same proportion of alloy
in the silver as in the gold coins. The evident de-
sign of this manoeuvre was to commit the President's
opinion in favor of Mr. Jefferson's idea in contradic-
tion to mine, and, the worst of it is, without his being
aware of the tendency of the thing. It happened
that the President showed me the speech, altered in
conformity to Mr. Madison's suggestion, just before
it was copied for the purpose of being delivered, I

^c.

524 Alexander Hamilton

remarked to him the tendency of the alteration. He
declared that he had not been aware of it, and had
no such intention, and without hesitation agreed to
expunge the words which were designed to connect
the two subjects.

This transaction, in my opinion, not only fur-
nishes a proof of Mr. Madison's intrigues in opposi-
tion to my measures, but charges him with an abuse
of the President's confidence in him, by endeavoring
to make him, without his knowledge, take part with
one officer against another in a case in which they
had given different opinions to the Legislature of the
country. I forbore to awake the President's mind to
this last inference, but it is among the circumstances
which have convinced me that Mr. Madison's true
character is the reverse of that simple, fair, candid
one which he has assumed. I have informed you
that Mr. Freneau was brought to Philadelphia by
Mr. Jefferson, to be conductor of a newspaper. My
information announced Mr. Madison as the means of
negotiation, while he was at New York last summer.
This, and the general coincidence and close intimacy
between the two gentlemen, leave no doubt that
their views are substantially the same.

Secondly, as to the tendency of the views of the
two gentlemen who have been named. Mr. Jefferson
is an avowed enemy to a funded debt. Mr. Madison
disavows, in public, any intention to undo what has
been done, but, in private conversation with Mr.
Charles Carroll, Senator, (this gentleman's name I
mention confidentially, though he mentioned the
matter to Mr. King and several other gentlemen as

Private Correspondence 525

well as myself, and if any chance should bring you
together you would easily bring him to repeat it to
you,) he favored the sentiment in Mr. Mercer's
speech, that a Legislature had no right to fund the
debt by mortgaging permanently the public re-
venues, because they had no right to bind posterity.
The inference is that what has been unlawfully done
may be tmdone.

The discourse of partisans in the Legislature, and
the publication in the party newspapers, direct their
main battery against the principle of a funded debt,
and represent it in the most odious light as a per-
fect Pandora's box.

If Mr. Barnwell of South Carolina, who appears
to be a man of nice honor, may be credited, Mr.
Giles declared, in a conversation with him, that if
there was a question for reversing the funding sys-
tem on the abstract point of the right of pledging
and the utility of preserving public faith, he should
be for reversal, merely to demonstrate his sense of
the defect of right and the inutility of the thing. If
positions equally extravagant were not publicly ad-
vanced by some of the party, and secretly counten-
anced by the most guarded and discreet of them, one
would be led, from the absurdity of the declaration,
to suspect misapprehension. But, from what is
known, any thing may be believed. Whatever were
the original merits of the funding system, after hav-
ing been so solemnly adopted, and after so great a
transfer of property under it, what would become of
the government should it be reversed? What of the
national reputation ? Upon what system of morality

526 Alexander Hamilton

can so atrocious a doctrine be maintained? In me,
I confess it excited indignation and horror!

What are we to think of those maxims of govern-
ment by which the power of a Legislature is denied
to bind the nation, by a contract in the affair of
property for twenty-four years? For this is pre-
cisely the case of the debt. What are to become of
all the legal rights of property, of all charters to cor-
porations, nay, of all grants to a man, his heirs and
assigns, for ever, if this doctrine be true? What is
the term for which a government is in capacity to
contract? Questions might be multiplied without
end, to demonstrate the pemiciousness and absurd-
ity of such a doctrine.

In almost all the questions, great and small, which
have arisen since the first session of Congress, Mr.
Jefferson and Mr. Madison have been found among
those who are disposed to narrow the federal au-
thority. The question of a national bank is one
example. The question of bounties to the fisheries
is another. Mr. Madison resisted it on the ground of
constitutionality, till it was evident, by the inter-
mediate questions taken, that the bill would pass;
and he then, under the wretched subterfuge of a
change of a single word, ''bounty" for ''allowance,'*
went over to the majority, and voted for the bill.
On the militia bill, and in a variety of minor cases,
he has leaned to abridging the exercise of federal
authority, and leaving as much as possible to the
States; and he lost no opportunity of sounding the
alarm, with great affected solemnity, at encroach-
ments, meditated on the rights of the States, and of

Private Correspondence 527

holding up the bugbear of a faction in the govern-
ment having designs unfriendly to liberty.

This kind of conduct has appeared to me the more
extraordinary on the part of Mr. Madison, as I know
for a certainty, it was a primary article in his creed,
that the real danger in our system was the subver-
sion of the national authority by the preponderancy
of the State governments. All his measures have
proceeded on an opposite supposition. I recur again
to the instance of Freneau's paper. In matters of
this kind one cannot have direct proof of men's
latent views; they must be inferred from circum-
stances. As coadjutor of Mr. Jefferson in the estab-
lishment of this paper, I include Mr. Madison in the
consequences imputable to it. In respect to foreign
politics, the views of these gentlemen are, in my
judgment, equally unsound and dangerous. They
have a womanish attachment to France and a
womanish resentment against Great Britain. They
would draw us into the closest embrace of the former,
and involve us in all the consequences of her politics ;
and they would risk the peace of the coimtry in their
endeavors to keep us at the greatest possible dis-
tance from the latter. This disposition goes to a
length, particularly in Mr. Jefferson, of which, till
lately, I had no adequate idea. Various circum-
stances prove to me that if these gentlemen were
left to pursue their own course, there would be, in
less than six months, an open war between the
United States and Great Britain. I trust I have a
due sense of the conduct of France towards this
country in the late revolution; and that I shall

528 Alexander Hamilton

always be among the foremost in making her every
suitable return; but there is a wide difference be-
tween this and implicating ourselves in all her poli-
tics; between bearing good- will to her and hating
and wrangling with all those whom she hates. The
neutral and the pacific policy appears to me to mark
the true path to the United States.

Having delineated to you what I conceive to be
the true complexion of the politics of these gentlemen,
I will not attempt a solution of these strange appear-
ances. Mr. Jefferson, it is known, did not in the
first instance cordially acquiesce in the new Constitu-
tion for the United States ; he had many doubts and
reserves. He left this country before we had ex-
perienced the imbecilities of the former.

In France, he saw government only on the side of
its abuses. He drank freely of the French philo-
sophy, in religion, in science, in politics. He came
from France in the moment of a fermentation, which
he had a share in exciting, and in the passions and
feelings of which he shared both from temperament
and situation. He came here probably with a too
partial idea of his own powers; and with the ex-
pectation of a greater share in the direction of our
councils than he has in reality enjoyed. I am not
-^(,0 sure that he had not peculiarly marked out for him-
self the department of the finances.

He came, electrified with attachment to France,
and with the project of knitting together the two
countries in the closest political bands.

Mr. Madison had always entertained an exalted
opinion of the talents, knowledge, and virtues of Mr.

Private Correspondence 529

Jefferson. The sentiment was probably reciprocal.
A close correspondence subsisted between them dur-
ing the time of Mr. Jefferson's absence from the
country. A close intimacy arose upon his return.

Whether any peculiar opinions of Mr. Jefferson's
concerning the public debt wrought a change in the
sentiments of Mr. Madison (for it is certain that the
former is more radically wrong than the latter), or
whether Mr. Madison, seduced by the expectation of
popularity, and possibly by the calculation of ad-
vantage to the State of Virginia, was led to change
his own opinion, certain it is that a very material
change took place, and that the two gentlemen were
united in the new ideas. Mr. Jefferson was indis-
creetly open in his approbation of Mr. Madison's
principles, upon his first coming to the seat of gov-
ernment. I say indiscreetly, because a gentleman
in the administration, in one department, ought not
to have taken sides against another, in another de-
partment. The course of this business and a variety
of circumstances which took place left Mr. Madison
a very discontented and chagrined man, and begot
some degree of ill-humor in Mr. Jefferson. Attempts
were made by these gentlemen, in different ways, to
produce a commercial warfare with Great Britain.
In this, too, they were disappointed. And, as they
had the liveliest wishes on the subject, their dissatis-
faction has been proportionably great ; and, as I had
not favored the project, I was comprehended in their
displeasure.

These causes, and perhaps some others, created,
much sooner than I was aware of it, a systematic

VOL. IX.— 34.

530 Alexander Hamilton

opposition to me, on the part of these gentlemen.
My subversion, I am now satisfied, has been long an
object with them.

Subsequent events have increased the spirit of
opposition and the feelings of personal mortification
on the part of these gentlemen.

A mighty stand was made on the affair of the bank.
There was much commitment in that case. I pre-
vailed. On the mint business I was opposed from
the same quarters and with still less success. In the
affair of ways and means for the Western expedi-
tion, on the supplementary arrangements concern-
ing the debt, except as to the additional assumption,
my views have been equally prevalent in opposition
to theirs. This current of success on the one side
and of defeat on the other has rendered the opposi-
tion furious, and has produced a disposition to sub-
vert their competitors, even at the expense of the
government.

Another circumstance has contributed to widen-
ing the breach. 'T is evident, beyond a question,
from every movement, that Mr. Jefferson aims with
ardent desire at the Presidential chair. This, too,
is an important object of the party-politics. It is
supposed, from the nature of my former personal
and political connections, that I may favor some
other candidate more than Mr. Jefferson, when the
question shall occur by the retreat of the present
gentleman. My influence, therefore, with the com-
munity becomes a thing, on ambitious and personal
grounds, to be resisted and destroyed. You know
how much it was a point to establish the Secretary

Private Correspondence 531

of State, as the officer who was to administer the
government in defect of the President and Vice-
President. Here, I acknowledge, though I took far
less part than was supposed, I ran counter to Mr.
Jefferson's wishes; but if I had had no other reason
for it, I had already experienced opposition from him,
which rendered it a measure of self-defence. It is
possible, too, (for men easily heat their imaginations
when their passions are heated,) that they have by
degrees persuaded themselves of what they may
have at first only sported to influence others, namely,
that there is some dreadful combination against
State government and republicanism; which, ac-
cording to them, are convertible terms. But there
is so much absurdity in this supposition, that the
admission of it tends to apologize for their hearts at
the expense of their heads. Under the influence of
all these circumstances the attachment to the govern-
ment of the United States, originally weak in Mr.
Jefferson's mind, has given way to something very
like dislike in Mr. Madison's. It is so counteracted
by personal feelings as to be more an affair of the
head than of the heart; more the result of a con-
viction of the necessity of Union than of cordiality
to the thing itself. I hope it does not stand worse
than this with him. In such a state of mind both
these gentlemen are prepared to hazard a great deal
to effect a change. Most of the important measures
of every government are connected with the treas-
ury. To subvert the present head of it, they deem
it expedient to risk rendering the government itself
odious; perhaps foolishly thinking that they can

1 (.2.

532 Alexander Hamilton

easily recover the lost affections and confidence of
the people, and not appreciating, as they ought to
do, the natural resistance to government, which in
every community results from the human passions,
the degree to which this is strengthened by the or-
ganized rivality of State governments, and the infinite
danger that the national government, once rendered
odious, will be kept so by these powerful and inde-
fatigable enemies. They forget an old, but a very
just, though a coarse saying, that it is much easier
to raise the devil than to lay him. Poor Knox has
come in for a share of their persecutions, as a man
who generally thinks with me, and who has a por-
tion of the President's good- will and confidence. In
giving you this picture of political parties, my de-
sign is, I confess, to awaken your attention, if it has
not yet been awakened, to the conduct of the gentle-
men in question. If my opinion of them is founded,
it is certainly of great moment to the public weal
that they should be understood. I rely on the
strength of your mind to appreciate men as they
merit, when you have a clue to their real views.

A word on another point. I am told that serious
apprehensions are disseminated in your State as to
the existence of a monarchical party meditating the
destruction of State and republican government. If
it is possible that so absurd an idea can gain ground,
it is necessary that it should be combated. I assure
you, on my private faith and honor as a man, that
there is not, in my judgment, a shadow of founda-
tion for it. A very small number of men indeed
may entertain theories less republican than Mr. Jef-

Private Correspondence 533

ferson and Mr. Madison, but I am persuaded there
is not a man among them who would not regard
as both criminal and visionary any attempt to sub-
vert the republican system of the country. Most of
these men rather fear that it may not justify itself
by its fruits, than feel a predilection for a different
form; and their fears are not diminished by the
factious and fanatical politics which they find pre-
vailing among a certain set of gentlemen and threat-
ening to disturb the tranquillity and order of the
government.

As to the destruction of State governments, the
great and real anxiety is to be able to preserve the
national from the too potent and counteracting in-
fluence of those governments. As to my own
political creed, I give it to you with the utmost sin-
cerity. I am affectionately attached to the repub-
lican theory. I desire above all things to see the
equality of political rights, exclusive of all heredi-
tary distinction, firmly established by a practical
demonstration of its being consistent with the order
and happiness of society. As to State governments,
the prevailing bias of my judgment is that if they
can be circumscribed within bounds, consistent with
the preservation of the national government, they
will prove useful and salutary. If the States were
all of the size of Connecticut, Maryland, or New Jer-
sey, I should decidedly regard the local governments
as both safe and useful. As the thing now is, how-
ever, I acknowledge the most serious apprehensions,
that the government of the United States will not
be able to maintain itself against their influence. I

534 Alexander Hamilton

see that influence already penetrating into the na-
tional councils and preventing their direction. Hence,
a disposition on my part towards a liberal construc-
tion of the powers of the national government, and
to erect every fence, to guard it from depredations
which is, in my opinion, consistent with constitu-
tional propriety. As to any combination to pros-
trate the State governments, I disavow and deny it.
From an apprehension lest the judiciary should not
work efficiently or harmoniously, I have been de-
sirous of seeing some national scheme of connection
adopted as an amendment to the Constitution,
otherwise I am for maintaining things as they are ;
though I doubt much the possibility of it, from a
tendency in the nature of things towards the pre-
ponderancy of the State governments.

I said that I was affectionately attached to the
republican theory. This is the real language of my
heart, which I open to you in the sincerity of friend-
ship; and I add that I have strong hopes of the
success of that theory; but, in candor, I ought also
to add that I am far from being without doubts. I
consider its success as yet a problem. It is yet to
be determined by experience whether it be consistent
with that stability and order in government which
are essential to public strength and private security
and happiness.

On the whole, the only enemy which Republican-
ism has to fear in this country is in the spirit of
faction and anarchy. If this will not permit the
ends of government to be attained under it, if it
engenders disorders in the community, all regular

Private Correspondence 535

and orderly minds will wish for a change, and the
demagogues who have produced the disorder will
make it for their own aggrandizement. This is the
old story. If I were disposed to promote monarchy
and overthrow State governments, I would mount
the hobby-horse of popularity; I would cry out
"usurpation," ''danger to liberty," etc., etc.; I
would endeavor to prostrate the national govern-
ment, raise a ferment, and then ''ride in the whirl-
wind, and direct the storm." That there are men
acting with Jefferson and Madison who have this in
view, I verily believe ; I could lay my finger on some
of them. That Madison does not mean it, I also
verily believe; and I rather believe the same of
Jefferson, but I read him upon the whole thus: "A
man of profound ambition and violent passions."

You must be by this time tired of my epistle.
Perhaps I have treated certain characters with too
much severity. I have, however, not meant to do
them injustice, and, from the bottom of my soul, be-
lieve I have drawn them truly; and it is of the ut-
most consequence to the public weal they should be
viewed in their true colors. I yield to this impres-
sion. I will only add that I make no clandestine
attacks on the gentlemen concerned. They are both
apprised indirectly from myself of the opinion I en-
tertain of their views. With the truest regard and
esteem.'

^ Reprinted from the History of the Republic^ iv., 520. This long,
interesting, and most important letter was written at the time of the
troubles in the Cabinet. It is evidently much more than merely a
letter to a friend, and was undoubtedly written with a specific purpose,
probably to explain through Carrington to the Virginia Federalists

'^4 I)'

53^ Alexander Hamilton

TO GENERAL OTHO H. WILLIAMS

Philadelphia, Jiine 9, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I feel myself not a little a delinquent in regard to
a certain paper you forwarded to me. I will now
explain the reason of its non-appearance. Though
I thought it a merited and a very good reproof on
certain folks, as well as calculated to throw useful
light on transactions interesting to the fame of our
deceased friend,' as the business depending was taking
a favorable turn when I received your letter, I doubted
the expediency of starting any new game, lest it
should wound the pride and jar the nerves of more
than the individual meant to be chastised, so as
to perhaps do harm to a cause we both wish to
promote.

If things had continued on an unpromising train,
I should have been willing to have taken the chance
of the publication. In me it would have gratified
feelings of more than one kind.

I at first intended to reserve the publication for
the conclusion of the business, but then I doubted
whether it was worth while to stir again the ques-
tion. It could not serve the original purpose, and it
was not necessary to the fame of the General, that
stands unassailable with success.

If any impressions have fallen under your notice

why the writer had parted company with Madison and had attacked
Jefferson. It is the ablest and best exposition that we have of the
condition of poHtics at that time; and, although written by a party
leader is singularly moderate in tone and is clearly intended to be
fair to all.

^ General Greene, of whom General Williams had written a defence.

Private Correspondence 537

which induce you to think this last conclusion erro-
neous, the publication at this time will not be too
late for that purpose.

P. S. — With your permission, I will retain the
paper as an interesting record of some particulars
which were not before known to me.'

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

Philadelphia, June 22, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I accept your challenge to meet you in the field of
mutual confidential communication; though I can-
not always promise punctuality or copiousness. I
will, however, do the best I can.

Will it not be a necessary preliminary to agree
upon a cypher ? One has been devised for me which,
though simple in execution, is tedious in prepara-
tion. I may shortly forward it. In the meantime
let us settle some appellations for certain official
characters. I will call,

The President, Scaevola. The Vice-President,

Sec'y of State, Scipio. Brutus.

Sec'y of Treasury, Paulus Sec'y of War, Sempro-

nius.
Attorney-General, Ly-

sander.

' I owe this letter, now first printed from the original, to the kindness
of Mr. Otho H. Williams, of Baltimore, the grandson of the Revolu-
tionary soldier. The paper referred to is among the Hamilton MSB.
in the State Department.
Alexander Hamilton

SENATORS

Robert Morris, Cato.
Rufus King, Leonidas.
Aaron Burr, Saevius.
Monroe, Sydney.

Oliver Ellsworth, Virgin-
ius.

George Cabot, Fortius.

Richard Henry Lee, Mar-
cus.

Ralph Izard, Themis-
tocles.

REPRESENTATIVES

James Madison, Tarquin.
Abraham Baldwin,

Hampden.

Mercer, Tacitus.

Thomas Fitzsimmons,

Cicero.
Jeremiah Wadsworth,

Titius.

Giles, Chronus.

Ames, Valerius.

John Lawrence, Solon.

Murray, Livy.

Egbert Benson, Crom-
well.

Jonathan Tnmibull,
Qmntus.

You see that I have avoided characteristic names.
In my next you shall have a sketch of the general
state of the coimtry, its politics and parties. I
thank you for your calculations, as I will for every
suggestion you shall make. I shall seldom fail to
get either a new idea or a new appellation of an old
one. I shall endeavor to put in train, by this oppor-
tunity, the papers you advise to be sent to the Rus-
sian Ambassador. If your courage is not put to the
test by being put to wear what you have won, it will
not be my fault. Do you know enough of the
catechism in the vulgar tongue to fulfil what you
have lately undertaken? '

' Reprinted from Sparks's Life of Gouverneur Morris, vol. i., p. 373.

Private Correspondence 539

TO COLONEL HETH ' AND OTHERS

Philadelphia, June 26, 1792.

Gentlemen :

I have received your circular-letter of the 28th of
February last.

I consider it as addressed to me in the capacity of
a fellow-soldier, and in that capacity I now acknow-
ledge and answer it.

Respect for you, gentlemen, and for those on
whose behalf you write, does not permit me to be
silent, and in replying, the frankness which is due to
you and them, and which is not less due to my own
character, forbids me to dissemble.

My judgment does not accord with the views which
are announced in your letter. A perseverance in
them will not, I believe, be productive of any ad-
vantage to the parties, and may I fear be attended
with some public inconveniences, which I am per-
suaded they would regret.

1 also have made sacrifices with the army, and,
what is less known, for the army. I feel that I love
those who remain of that respectable band, and that
no one can be more solicitous than myself for their
welfare. I trust, therefore, they will do justice to
my motives on the present occasion.^

^ Colonel William Heth, of Virginia.

2 This letter refers to a claim made by the army for compensation
for losses incurred by their having been paid in a depreciated cur-
rency. This movement had been made political in the South, and
the foundation of attacks on the North for buying soldiers' claims, and
also on Washington and Hamilton. A second circular was then
issued reiterating the claim and asking the co-operation of all officers.
This was the subject of Hamilton's letter.

540 Alexander Hamilton

TO WILLIAM SETON

(Private.)

June 26, 1792.

Dear Sir:

This accompanies an official letter. I acknow-
ledge I doubt the accuracy of the opinion of the
attorney-general on the last point.. A law is not to
be so literally construed as to involve absurdity and
oppression. The Legislature might reasonably re-
strain its officers from future buying and selling of
stock, but could not reasonably prevent their making
a disposition of property which they had previously
acquired according to the laws of their country.

At the same time, for greater caution, I should in
my own case follow the strict interpretation.

All my property in the funds is about $800, 3 per
cents. These, at a certain period, I should have
sold, had I not been unwilling to give occasion to
cavil.

The restriction itself, as it respects the officers of
the treasury, and I rather think the commissioners
of loans, is a wise and unexceptionable one.

But the propriety of its further extension is not
obvious, and I doubt whether it will be lasting. The
act passed in a prodigious hurry.

TO RUFUS KING

Philadelphia, June 28, 1792.

My Dear King:

I have not, as you well may imagine, been in-
attentive to your political squabble. I believe you

Private Correspondence 541

are right (though I have not accurately examined),
but I am not without apprehension that a ferment
may be raised which may not be allayed when you
wish it. 'T is not to be forgotten that the opposers
of Clinton are the real friends to order and good
government, and that it will ill become them to give
an example to the contrary.

Some folks are talking of conventions and the
bayonet. But the case will justify neither a resort
to such principles nor to violence. Some amend-
ments of your election laws, and possibly the im-
peachment of some of the canvassers who have
given proofs of premeditated partiality, will be very
well, and it will answer good purposes to keep alive,
within proper bounds, the public indignation. But
beware of extremes!

There appears to be no definite declared objects of
the movements on foot, which render them more
ticklish. What can you do? What do you expect
to effect? '

TO ELIAS BOUDINOT

Philadelphia, July 12, 1792.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you, a day or two since, on the subject of
the advertisement.

You recollect there is a power to borrow to be

^ Now first printed from the King papers in the possession of Dr.
Charles King. In R. King's handwriting on the opposite page is the
following: " I have had no agency in promoting the measures adopted
respecting the decision of the canvassers. I have, however, felt the
utmost indignation."

542 Alexander Hamilton

given to the committee, under the seal of the corpora-
tion. No time ought to be lost in preparing and
executing the power and making application for the
loan. Not more than $30,000, in addition to the
$10,000 already borrowed, need at first be asked for.
I shall write to Mr. Seton by to-morrow's post.
Pray, my friend, let nothing slumber.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, Jtily 22, 1792.

Sir:

I wrote you on Monday last, transmitting a reso-
lution of the Commissioners of the Sinking Fund.
Nothing in the way of public business requiring yoiir
attention has since occurred.

There is a matter I beg leave to mention to you
confidentially, in which your interposition, if you
deem it advisable, may have a good effect.

I have long had it at heart that some good system
of regulations for the forwarding supplies to the
army, issuing them there and accounting for them
to the Department of War, should be established.
On conversing with the Secretary at War, I do not
find that any such now exists; nor had the intima-
tions I have taken the liberty to give on the subject,
though perfectly well received, hitherto produced
the desired effect. The utility of the thing does not
seem to be as strongly impressed on the mind of the
Secretary at War as it is on mine.

It has occurred to me that if you should think fit
to call by letter upon the Secretary of the Treasury

Private Correspondence 543

and the Secretary at War to report to you the sys-
tem and regulations under which the procuring, issuing,
and accounting for supplies to the army is conducted,
it would produce what appears to be now wanting.
I submit the idea accordingly.

END OP VOL. IX

University of
Connecticut

Libraries

391530289721S2

G.ESTEt'HERTiCo
(ALFRED HAFNER)
NEW YORK


===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 10) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander10hami/worksofalexander10hami_djvu.txt

hi v* I

SSSSBSffiSl^Ei^

BOOK 973.4.H18 V.10 C.I
HAMILTON # WORKS

y^lrs^^g&gS-gBST' 5

Conatitutlonal £&ition

3>02.

The Works of

Alexander Hamilton

Edited by

Henry Cabot Lodge

'■^ The sacred rights of mankind are not to be rummaged for among old parchments or
musty records. They are written, as with a sunbeam, in the whole volume of human nature,
by the hand of the Divinity itself, and can never be erased or obscured by mortal power."

[Hamilton— 7";^^ Farmer Refuted., 'i-11^-, -^t. i8.]

" We are laboring hard to establish in this country principles more and more national^
and free from all foreign ingredients, so that we may be neither ' Greeks nor Trojans,' but
truly Americans." — [Hamilton to King, 1796, Rx.. 39.]

Volume X

G. P. Putnam's Sons

New York and London
Cbe Iknicherbocftcr ipress

His

Ube Iknicfterbocfter ipress, flew jgorft

CONTENTS

Private Correspondence — Continued:
:']^i To RuFus King

To Colonel Edward Carrington

To RuFus King

To Washington

To Elias Boudinot .

To John Adams

To William Seton .

To John Jay

To

To RuFus King

To

To Gen. C. C. Pinckney

To John Steele

To John Adams

To John Jay
!"7 To Richard Harrison

To William Short .

To RuFus King

To Washington

To John Jay

To RuFus King

To Jefferson .

To

To RuFus King

To Gen. Otho H. Williams

To Washington

To One of the Creditors of Col. Duer

PAGB
5
7
15
i6

i8
20
22
28
30
S3
38
40
46
48
IV

Contents

;*l^

Private Correspondence — Continued:
To RuFus King
To Mrs. General Greene
To Jeremiah Wadsworth
To Miss Angelica Hamilton

To

To Colonel Olney .
'i-^-: 'Pq ^he United States Senate
To Washington
To Jay .
To Washington
To RuFus King

To George Matthews, Governor of Georgia
To Oliver Wolcott
To RuFus King
To A Friend in Europe .
To Thomas Fitzsimmons .
To Washington

To WiLLiNK, Van Staphorst, & Hu
To Washington
Washington to Hamilton
To Washington
To Theodore Sedgwick .
To RuFus King
To Oliver Wolcott
To RuFus King
To William Bradford
To RuFus King
To Oliver Wolcott
To RuFus King
To Oliver Wolcott
To Robert Troup .
To Oliver Wolcott
To Washington
To Oliver Wolcott
To Washington
To Pickering .

PAGE
54
57
59
63
67
F Georgia
76
78
79

beard
84

. 8s
. 89
92

. 98

. 98

lOI
103
107
122

. 125
133

Contents

V

PAGE

Private Correspondence — Continued:

To RuFus King i3S

To Washington
To Timothy Pickering .
To Washington
)7<5r4» To Rufus King
To Washington
To Oliver Wolcott
To Washington
To William Smith .
To Rufus King
To Washington
To Rufus King
To Washington
To Rufus King
To Oliver Wolcott
To Rufus King
To Timothy Pickering
To Washington

. 165

To Oliver Wolcott

. 170

To James McHenry

. 171

To Washington

. 171

To Oliver Wolcott

. 173

To Washington
To Oliver Wolcott
To Washington
To Oliver Wolcott
To Elias Boudinot .
To Oliver Wolcott

. 183

To Timothy Pickering
To Oliver Wolcott

. 185

To Washington
To Greenleaf

. 187

To Oliver Wolcott

. 187

To Washington
To Phineas Bond .
To Timothy Pickering
vi Contents

PAGE

Private Correspondence — Continued:

To 195

To Oliver Wolcott
To Washington
To Oliver Wolcott
To Washington
To Oliver Wolcott
To RuFus King
To Oliver Wolcott
To Theo. Foster, Esq. .
To Oliver Wolcott
To William Smith .
To
To Washington
To William Smith .
To Theodore Sedgwick .
To Washington
To Timothy Pickering
To RuFus King

. 237

To Oliver Wolcott

. 238

To Theodore Sedgwick

. 239

To James McHenry
To Timothy Pickering
To Oliver Wolcott
To Timothy Pickering
To Oliver Wolcott

. 251

To William Smith .

• 253

To RuFus King

. 254

To William Smith .

. 256

To Oliver Wolcott
To Hamilton

. 257

To Timothy Pickering
To RuFus King
To Oliver Wolcott
To Timothy Pickering
To Washington
To Oliver Wolcott
Contents

Private Correspondence — Contimi^d:
/'^^^g To RuFus King

To Timothy Pickering

To Theodore Sedgwick

To Timothy Pickering

To John Jay

To James McHenry

To RuFus King

To Washington

To Oliver Wolcott

To RuFus King

To Timothy Pickering

To Oliver Wolcott

To Washington

To Timothy Pickering

To General Duportail

To Washington

To Oliver Wolcott

To General Dayton

To Benjamin Stoddert

To James McHenry

To Washington

To Oliver Wolcott

To RuFus King

To Francisco Miranda

To Oliver Wolcott

To James McHenry

To Theodore Sedgwick

To Timothy Pickering

To James McHenry

To Washington

To RuFus King

To THE Count Latour Dupin Gouvernet

To William Heth .

To Harrison Gray Otis

To Theodore Sedgwick
\"|*|^ To Jonathan Dayton

VII

PAGE
279
281
284
291
297
299
307
312
315
317
319
32c
322
325
329

Vlll

Contents

Private Correspondence — Continued
To Lafayette .
To Harrison Gray Otis
To Theodore Sedgwick
To Timothy Pickering
To Washington
To Timothy Pickering
To Theodore Sedgwick
To Oliver Wolcott
To General Knox .
To James McHenry
To Oliver Wolcott
To Timothy Pickering
To Oliver Wolcott
To Washington
To Colonel Taylor
To James McHenry
To Josiah O. Hoffman
To Washington
) ^ To Tobias Lear
To RuFus King
To Mrs. Martha Washington
To Captain George Izard
To Theodore Sedgwick .
To Henry Lee
To William Smith .
To Oliver Wolcott
To Timothy Pickering .
To Oliver Wolcott
To General Charles Cotesworth
To Timothy Pickering
To Theodore Sedgwick
To John Jay
To Theodore Sedgwick
To Timothy Pickering
To Oliver Wolcott
To Charles Carroll

Pinckney,

PAGE
340
343
345
348
349
351
353
354
356
360
362
364
366

3^8
369
371
376
378

Contents

Private Correspondence — Continued:

To Samuel Dexter .

To John Adams

To Oliver Wolcott

To James Ashton Bayard

To James McHenry

To Oliver Wolcott

To John Adams

To Timothy Pickering .

To Oliver Wolcott

To Theodore Sedgwick .

To Gouverneur Morris .

To James A. Bayard

To John Rutledge .
•<?.•: To James Ross

To Gouverneur Morris .

To James A. Bayard

To Gouverneur Morris

To Theodore Sedgwick .

To Mrs. Hamilton .

To ....

Ht'i To Dr. Benjamin Rush .

To Gouverneur Morris .

To General Charles Cotesworth

To Gouverneur Morris .

To James A. Bayard

To RuFus King

To THE Editor of the "Evening

To Oliver Wolcott

To Gouverneur Morris .

To General Charles Cotesworth
i^e ^ To Timothy Pickering ..
7 0 ■-■ To RuFus King

To Governor George Clinton

To Talleyrand

To ....

To Philip J. Schuyler .

IX

PAGE

• • «
• •

. 382

• •

. 383

• •

. 384

• •

. 388

• •

. 389

• •

• 390

.

. 391

•

. 392

• •

' 397

• •

. 398

• •
• •
•
• •
• •
• •
• •
.

. 421

•
.
• •
Pinckney
• •
.
.

• 437

Post"
•

. 442

.
Pinckney
.
.
« •
• • «
• • 4
• •

• 457

X

Contents

Private Correspondence — Continued:

To James A. Hamilton ....
To Theodore Sedgwick ....
To General John Sullivan ^7P^ .
To Washington »• .
A. Burr to General Hamilton
Hamilton to Burr .....
Burr to Hamilton .....

Hamilton to Burr

W. P. Van Ness to Hamilton

Van Ness to Major Nathaniel Pendleton

Pendleton to Van Ness

Van Ness to Pendleton

Remarks by Hamilton on the Letter of

June 27, 1804

Statement by Hamilton as to His Motives

IN Meeting Burr ....
To Mrs. Hamilton .....
Statement by Hamilton as to His Pecuniary

Affairs 4/--/-./ ^f?^.
Rules for Mr. Philip Hamilton .
Last Will and Testament of Alexander

Hamilton

Epitaph

Index to Private Correspondence .
General Index to Vols. I. to X., Inclusive .
List of Letters and Other Papers Written by
Hamilton and Printed in the John C. Hamil-
ton Edition of 1850, which are Omitted in
THIS Edition

PAGE
457
459
461
464
465
468
471
476
481
485
509

PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE— Co^^^mw^d

VOL X.— Z,

PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE

[Continued)

TO RUFUS KING

Philadelphia, July 25, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I received, lately, a letter from you, in which you
expressed sentiments according with my own on the
present complexion of your party politics, as, if a
letter of mine to you did not miscarry, you will have
seen. I wished that Clinton and his party should be
placed in a just light before the people, and that a
spirit of dissatisfaction, within proper bounds, should
be kept alive ; and this for national purposes, as well
as from a detestation of their principles and conduct.

But a resort to first principles, in any shape, is
decidedly against my judgment. I don't think the
occasion will, in any sense, warrant it. It is not for
the friends of good government to employ extraor-
dinary expedients, which ought only to be resorted
to in cases of great magnitude and urgent necessity.
I reject as well the idea of a convention as of force.

To re judge the decision of the canvassers by a
convention, has to me too much the appearance of
reversing the sentence of a court by a legislative
decree. The canvassers had a final authority in all
the forms of the Constitution and laws. A question

4 Alexander Hamilton

arose in the execution of their office, not absolutely
free from difficulty which they have decided (I am
persuaded wrongly), but within the power vested in
them. I do not feel it right or expedient to attempt
to reverse the decision by any means not known to
the Constitution or laws.

The precedent may suit us to-day ; but to-morrow
we may see its abuse.

I am not even sure that it will suit us at all. I
see already publications aiming at a revision of the
Constitution, with a view to alterations which would
spoil it. It would not be astonishing, if a conven-
tion should be called, if it should produce more than
is intended. Such weapons are not to be played
with. Even the friends of good government, in
their present mood, may fancy alterations desirable
which would be the reverse.

Men's minds are too much unsettled ever3rwhere
at the present juncture. Let us endeavor to settle
them, and not to set them more afloat. I find that
strong-minded men here view the matter in the same
light with me, and that even Mr. Jay's character is
likely in a degree, to suffer by the idea that he fans
the flame a little more than is quite prudent. I
wish this idea to be conveyed to him with proper
management. I have thoughts of writing to him.

You see, out of the reach of the contagion, I am
very cool and reasonable. If I were with you I
should probably not escape the infection.

Francis Childs ' is a very cunning fellow. In

' Editor of the New York Daily Advertiser, and proprietor, with
Freneau, of the National Gazette.

Private Correspondence 5

Philadelphia, in the person of his proxy, Freneau,
he is a good Anti-federalist and Clintonian ; in New
York, he is a good Federalist and Jayite. Beckley
and Jefferson pay him for the first, and the Federal
citizens of New York for the last. Observe a para-
graph in his Daily Advertiser of the i8th instant.
These things ought, in a proper way, to be brought
into view.

TO COLONEL EDWARD CARRINGTON

Philadelphia, July 25, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I have received and thank you for your two letters
of the nth instant.

When I asked your opinion concerning the most
fit position for a branch of the bank, I had no idea
that the question would have been decided with
so much precipitation as has happened. After
some loose conversation with individual directors,
in which the comparative merits of different places
were slightly discussed, and left, as I understood,
for further information, I was surprised with an
intimation that the place had been decided upon,
that Richmond was that place, and that some day
in August had been assigned for choosing directors.
A predominating motive, though an insufficient one,
appears to have been that most of the bank-stock
held in Virginia is held by persons in and about
Richmond.

The reasons assigned in your letter in favor of
another place are prodigiously weighty. Without

6 Alexander Hamilton

committing you, they shall be made known before
the thing is finally finished. But I suspect it has
gone too far.

Your observations concerning the temper of the
people of your State are, as far as they go, consoling.
Reflections according with them had arisen in my
mind, though I could not be sure that I might not
overrate circumstances. I shall wait with expecta-
tion for the further communication which you are
so obliging as to promise.

What you remark concerning the non-execution
of the excise law in North Carolina is very interest-
ing. The probable effect of a continuance of the
affair in the same posture is obvious. It has been
the wish to win the object from time and reflection.
But this can no longer be relied upon. The thing
must be brought to an issue, and will be, as soon as
the new arrangement respecting compensations is
completed. If process should be violently resisted
in the parts of North Carolina bordering on your
State, how much could be hoped from the aid of the
militia of your State ? '

TO RUFUS KING

July 27, 1792.

Desirous of examining accurately the question
decided by the canvassers, I will thank you for a

^ This letter is now first printed from the original in the possession
of the same gentleman to whom I owe another letter already given on
page 230 of Vol. IX., and whose name I am unfortunately prevented
from giving, as I have explained in a note on page 231.

Private Correspondence 7

minute of all the authorities which were consulted
by you when you gave your opinion.'

I shall be glad to have them as soon as convenient.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, July 30, 1792.

Sir:

I received the most sincere pleasure at finding in
our late conversation, that there was some relaxa-
tion in the disposition you had before discovered to
decline a re-election. Since your departure, I have
left no opportunity of sounding the opinions of per-
sons, whose opinions were worth knowing on these
two points. I St. The effect of your declining, upon
the public affairs, and upon your own reputation.
2dly. The effect of your continuing, in reference to
the declarations you have made of your disinclina-
tion to public life ; and I can truly say that I have
not found the least difference of sentiment on either
point. The impression is uniform, that your de-
clining would be to be deplored as the greatest evil
that could befall the country at the present juncture,

^ This letter, and those which precede, refer to one of the earliest and
worst of our election frauds. Burr wished to run against Clinton, but
was baffled by Hamilton, the result being that Jay was nominated,
and, after a most heated canvass, elected. His election depended,
however, on the votes of three counties, and the Clintonian board of
canvassers threw out, on the most technical and flimsy grounds, the
votes of these counties and burned them. There was great wrath and
excitement over this "count out," as it would now be called, and a
convention and other violent measures were proposed, which Hamilton
resisted. The Legislature, by a party vote, sustained the canvassers,
and declared Clinton elected by a majority of 108 votes.

8 Alexander Hamilton

and as critically hazardous to your own reputation;
that your continuance will be justified in the mind
of every friend to his country, by the evident neces-
sity for it. 'T is clear, says every one with whom I
have conversed, that the affairs of the national gov-
ernment are not yet firmly established — that its
enemies, generally speaking, are as inveterate as
ever — that their enmity has been sharpened by its
success, and by all the resentments which flow from
disappointed predictions and mortified vanity — that
a general and strenuous effort is making in every
State to place the administration of it in the hands
of its enemies, as if they were its safest guardians
— that the period of the next House of Represen-
tatives is likely to prove the crisis of its permanent
character — that if you continue in office nothing
materially mischievous is to be apprehended, if you
quit, much is to be dreaded — that the same motives
which induced you to accept originally ought to de-
cide you to continue till matters have assumed a
more determined aspect — that indeed it would have
been better, as it regards your own character, that
you had never consented to come forward, than now
to leave the business unfinished and in danger of
being undone — that in the event of storms arising,
there would be an imputation either of want of fore-
sight or want of firmness — and, in fine, that on public
and personal accounts, on patriotic and prudential
considerations, the clear path to be pursued by you
will be, again to obey the voice of your country,
which, it is not doubted, will be as earnest and as
unanimous as ever.

Private Correspondence 9

On this last point, I have some suspicion that it
will be insinuated to you, and perhaps (God forgive
me if I judge hardly) with design to place before you
a motive for declining — that there is danger of a
division among the electors, and of less unanimity in
their suffrages than heretofore. My view of this
matter is as follows:

While your first election was depending, I had no
doubt that there would be characters among the
electors, who, if they durst follow their inclinations,
would have voted against you ; but that in all prob-
ability they would be restrained by an apprehension
of public resentment — that nevertheless it was possi-
ble a few straggling votes might be found in opposi-
tion, from some headstrong and fanatical individuals
— that a circumstance of this kind would be in fact,
and ought to be estimated by you, as of no im-
portance, since there would be sufficient unanimity
to witness the general confidence and attachment
towards you.

My view of the future accords exactly with what
was my view of the past. I believe the same mo-
tives will operate to produce the same result. The
dread of public indignation will be likely to restrain
the indisposed few. If they can calculate at all,
they will naturally reflect that they could not give a
severer blow to their cause than by giving a proof of
their hostility to you. But if a solitary vote or two
should appear wanting to perfect unanimity, of what
moment can it be ? Will not the fewness of the ex-
ceptions be a confirmation of the devotion of the
community to a character which has so generally

lo Alexander Hamilton

united its suffrages after an administration of four
years at the head of a new government, opposed in
its first establishment by a large proportion of its
citizens, and obliged to run counter to many preju-
dices in devising the arduous arrangements requisite
to public credit and public order? Will not those
who may be the authors of any such exceptions,
manifest more their own perverseness and malevo-
lence than any diminution of the affection and con-
fidence of the nation? I am persuaded that both
these questions ought to be answered in the affirma-
tive, and that there is nothing to be looked for, on
the score of diversity of sentiment, which ought to
weigh for a moment.

I trust, sir, and I pray God, that you will deter-
mine to make a further sacrifice of your tranquillity
and happiness to the public good. I trust that it
need not continue above a year or two more ; and I
think that it will be more eligible to retire from office
before the expiration of a term of election, than to
decline a re-election.

The sentiments I have delivered upon this occa-
sion, I can truly say, proceed exclusively from an
anxious concern for the public welfare, and an af-
fectionate personal attachment. These dispositions
must continue to govern in every vicissitude one who
has the honor to be, very truly and respectfully,

etc.

August 3d. Since writing the foregoing, I am
favored with your interesting letter of the 29th of
July. An answer to the points raised is not difficult,
and shall as soon as possible be forwarded.

Private Correspondence ii

TO WASHINGTON
-- Treasury Department, Aug. lo, 1792.

Sir:

I have been duly honored with your letters of the
ist and 5th instant. A copy of the letter is inclosed
according to your desire.

You may depend upon it, sir, that nothing shall be
wanting in this department to furnish all requisite
supplies for the army with efficiency and economy,
and to bring to exact account all persons concerned
in them as far as shall consist with the powers of
the department. Hitherto moneys have been fur-
nished to the War Department as they have been
called for, for procuring all those articles which have
not been objects of direct contract with the Treasury.
And I leam from the Secretary of War that every
thing is in great maturity.

Under the former system, provisions and clothing
were the only articles which the Treasury had the
charge of procuring; the receiving, issuing, and in-
specting their quality belonged to the Department
of War by usage.

The act of the last session, entitled '' An act mak-
ing alterations in the Treasury and War Depart-
ments," prescribes that all purchases and contracts
for all supplies for the use of the Department of War,
be made by or under the direction of the Treasury
Department.

As much progress has been made in the prepara-
tion for the campaign, prior to the passing of this
act, by the Secretary of War, I thought it best to
continue the business under his immediate care for

12 Alexander Hamilton

some time — till in fact all the arrangements begun
should be completed. It is now, however, deter-
mined that on the first of September the business of
procuring all supplies will be begun under the imme-
diate direction of the Treasury, upon estimates and
requisitions from time to time furnished and made
by the Department of War.

The arrangement which is contemplated for this
purpose is the following: — Provisions and clothing
will be provided as heretofore, by contracts made by
the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to previous
advertisements. Articles in the quartermaster's de-
partment will be to be procured by him, or his agents
or deputies; for which purpose, advances of money
will be made to him directly, to be accounted for
to the Treasury by him. Ordnance stores, Indian
goods, and all contingent supplies, will be procured
by an agent who will be constituted for the purpose,
with an allowance of eight hundred dollars a year
in lieu of commission. Accounts for his purchases,
in every case in which it can conveniently be done
(which will comprehend the greatest number of
cases) , will be settled immediately with the Treasury,
and the money paid directly to the individuals. In
other cases, advances on account will be made to
the agent, to be accounted for directly to the
Treasury.

A leading object of this arrangement is to exempt
the officers, both of the War and Treasury Depart-
ments, from the ill-natured suspicions which are
incident to the actual handling and disbursements
of public money. None of the inferior officers of

Private Correspondence 13

either department, except the Treasurer, will have
any concern with it.

The supplies of every kind will be delivered to the
order of the Department of War. The issuing of
them and the accounting for the issues (except as to
provisions, which are directly issued by the con-
tractors to the troops, and which are proved to the
Treasury upon vouchers prescribed for the purpose)
appertain to the Department of War. The regula-
tions which have been adopted for the purpose, will
no doubt be eagerly reported to you by the Secretary
of War, as well as those which have been concerted
with the Treasury respecting the paying and ac-
counting for the pay of the troops.

I beg leave to assure you, that, in the application
of the general arrangement which you have adopted
respecting the execution of the act concerning dis-
tilled spirits, the greatest attention will be paid to
economy, as far as the precautions of the Treasury
can insure it.

I presume it to have been your intention that the
opinion of the Attorney-General should be taken as
to the power of the President to appoint the sup-
plementary officers contemplated during the recess
of the Senate ; which shall accordingly be done.

It affords me much satisfaction to observe that
your mind has anticipated the decision to enforce the
law, in case a refractory spirit should continue to
render the ordinary and more desirable means in-
effectual. My most deliberate reflections have led
me to conclude, that the time for acting with decision
is at hand; and it is with pleasure I can add, that an

14 Alexander Hamilton

increasing acquiescence is likely to render this course
the less difficult in the cases in which an uncomply-
ing temper may finally prevail.

I shall without delay execute your directions re-
specting the officers of the cutters.

TO ELIAS BOUDINOT
My Dear Sir: Philadelphia, Aug. 13. i79-

Some skirmishing having begun in the Gazette of
the United States respecting Mr. Freneau's receiving
a salary from government, I mentioned in conversa-
tion with a friend all that I knew of the matter, and
among other things, but without naming you, the
information you had given me concerning Mr. Madi-
son's negotiation with Freneau. Upon this he
founded a very pointed attack upon Mr. Freneau
and Mr. Jefferson, which I dare say you have seen,
as also Mr. Freneau 's affidavit denying all negotia-
tion with "Thomas Jefferson, Esq., Secretary of
State," etc., etc. The gentleman has since applied
to me to obtain, if possible, an authentication of the
fact of the negotiation.

If I recollect right, you told me that this, if neces-
sary, could be done ; and, if practicable, it is of real
importance that it should be done. It will con-
found and put down a man who is continually machi-
nating against the public happiness.

You will oblige me in the most particular manner
by obtaining and forwarding to me without delay
the particulars of all the steps taken by Mr. Madison

Private Correspondence 15

— the when and where — and with Uberty to use the
name of the informant. His affidavit to the facts,
if obtainable, would be of infinite value. Care ought
to be taken that nothing is asserted which is not
unquestionable.

TO JOHN ADAMS

Philadelphia, Aug. 16, 1792.

Dear Sir:

I have been duly favored with your letter of the
4th inst. A warrant for one thousand dollars in
your favor has issued. If any authorization from
you had been sent to your son or any one else, your
signature on the warrant would have been un-
necessary. But as it is, it will be indispensable.
Perhaps, however, the Treasurer may pay in ex-
pectation of it.

The question when the Vice-President entered on
the duties of his office is open at the Treasury, though
an opinion has obtained that the taking of the oath
was the criterion. This has been founded on two
considerations — analogy to the case of the President.
The Constitution requires that he shall take an oath
before he enters upon the execution of his office. He
cannot enter upon the duties of it without entering
upon the execution of it, and he cannot legally do
the latter till he has taken the oath prescribed. The
same injunction, however, is not laid upon the Vice-
President, and therefore, except by analogy, resort
must be had to the second consideration, namely,
that the taking of the oath of office is the legal act

1 6 Alexander Hamilton

of acceptance and may be supposed to date the com-
mencement of service.

But this reasoning, it must be confessed, is not
conclusive, and therefore the opinion of the Attor-
ney-General will be taken, both as to the President
and Vice-President, and I presume will guide in the
adjustment.

Twenty thousand dollars have been appropriated,
and the advances by anticipation may reach that
limit.

You forgot that Mr. Clinton could feast upon what
would starve another. He will not, however, have
an opportunity of making the experiment, and I
hope the starvation policy will not long continue
fashionable.

Your confirmation of the good disposition of New
England is a source of satisfaction. I have a letter
from a well-informed friend in Virginia who says:
" All the persons I converse with are prosperous and
happy, and yet most of them, including the friends
of the government, appear to be much alarmed at a
supposed system of policy tending to subvert the
republican government of the country." Were ever
men more ingenious to torment themselves with
phantoms ?

TO WILLIAM SETON

August 17, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter mentioning certain particulars re-
specting the two banks has been received and will
be duly attended to. I trust, however, that certain

Private Correspondence 17

appearances have in no degree proceeded from any
unkind disposition. The solution, I beHeve, is to
be found in the necessity of sending here a consider-
able sum in specie. Large payments into the Bank
of North America on account of the State of Penn-
sylvania, subscriptions to canals, etc., and large calls
upon the Bank of the United States for the services
of government, joined to liberal discounts, had pro-
duced a considerable balance in favor of the Bank of
North America, which rendered it expedient to draw
a sum of specie from New York, not to leave the
National Bank in any degree in the power of the
Bank of North America, which once manifested a
very mischievous disposition, that was afterwards
repaid by acts of kindness and generosity. The tide
is now changing and must speedily reverse the bal-
ance, and I mention it in confidence, because I wish
by explaining to cherish the confidence between the
two institutions at New" York so necessary to their
mutual interest.

Inclosed, my dear sir, is a letter to Mr. Donald, of
St. Vincents, which I beg your most particular care
in forwarding. I presiime he is a merchant there,
but a gentleman lately mentioned to me that he
thought the name of the Governor of St. Vincents
was Donald. If so, he is probably the person in-
tended. I received a letter from him giving me
some information of my father. The letter to Mr.
Donald covers one to my father, who, from a series
of misfortunes, was reduced to great distress. You
will perceive from this that I must be anxious for the
safe conveyance of my letter. If there is any person

1 8 Alexander Hamilton

of whom you can make previous inquiry concerning
Mr. Donald, you will oblige me by doing it as a guide
in forwarding the letter. I mean to send a duplicate
from this place.

TO JOHN JAY
(Private.)
,, T^ ry Philadelphia, Sept. -?, 1702.

My Dear Sir: p ^' /y

The proceedings at Pittsburgh which you will find
stated in the inclosed papers and other incidents in
the western parts of this State announce so deter-
mined and persevering a spirit of opposition to the
laws, as in my opinion to render a vigorous exertion
of the powers of government indispensable. I have
communicated this opinion to the President, and I
doubt not his impressions will accord with it. In
this case, one point for consideration will be the ex-
pediency of the next Circuit Court's noticing the
state of things in that quarter, particularly the
meeting at Pittsburgh and its proceedings. You will
observe an avowed object is to ''obstruct the oper-
ation of the law." This is attempted to be qualified
by a pretence of doing it by "every legal measure."
But "legal measures" to "obstruct the operation
of a law" is a contradiction in terms. I therefore
entertain no doubt that a high misdemeanor has
been committed. The point, however, is under sub-
mission to the Attorney- General for his opinion.

There is really, my dear sir, a crisis in the affairs of
the country which demands the most mature con-
sideration of its best and wisest friends.

Private Correspondence 19

I beg you to apply your own most serious thoughts
to it, and favor me as soon as possible with the re-
sult of your reflections. Perhaps it will not be amiss
for you to converse with Mr. King. His judgment
is sound — he has caution and energy.

Would a proclamation from the President be ad-
visable, stating the crimiinality of such proceedings,
and warning all persons to abstain from them as the
laws will be strictly enforced against all offenders?

If the plot should thicken and the application of
force should appear to be unavoidable, will it be ex-
pedient for the President to repair in person to the
scene of commotion?

These are some of the questions which present
themselves. The subject will doubtless open itself
in all its aspects to you.

TO

Dear Sir* Philadelphia, Sept. 21, 1792.

I take the liberty to inclose you the copy of a
letter from a very respectable friend in New York.
The contents surprised me — nor am I quite per-
suaded that the appearance of Mr. Burr on the stage
is not a diversion in favor of Mr. Clinton. '

Mr. Clinton's success I should think very unfortu-
nate; I am not for trusting the government too
much in the hands of its enemies. But still Mr. C.
is a man of property, and in private life, as far as I
know, of probity. I fear the other gentleman is

^ This refers to the contest for the Vice-Presidency at the second
national election. The struggle finally settled down to Clinton and
Adams, and the latter was elected.

20 Alexander Hamilton

unprincipled, both as a public and a private man.
When the Constitution was in deliberation, his con-
duct was equivocal, but its enemies, who, I believe,
best understood him, considered him as with them.
In fact, I take it, he is for or against nothing, but as
it suits his interest or ambition. He is determined,
as I conceive, to make his way to be the head of the
popular party, and to climb per fas aut nefas to the
highest honors of the State, and as much higher as
circumstances may permit. Embarrassed, as I un-
derstand, in his circumstances, with an extravagant
family, bold, enterprising, and intriguing, I am mis-
taken if it be not his object to play the game of con-
fusion, and I feel it to be a religious duty to oppose
his career.

I have hitherto scrupulously refrained from in-
terference in elections; but the occasion is, in my
opinion, of sufficient importance to warrant in this
instance a departure from that rule. I therefore
commit my opinion to you without scruple; but in
perfect confidence. I pledge my character for dis-
cernment, that it is incumbent upon every good
man to resist the present design.

TO RUFUS KING

September 23, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

Though I had had a previous intimation of the
possibility of such an event, yet the intelligence con-
tained in your letter of the 17th surprised me. Even
now I am to be convinced that the movement is any
thing more than a diversion in favor of Mr. Clinton;

Private Correspondence 21

yet, on my part, it will not be neglected. My atten-
tion, as far as shall be in any degree safe, will be
directed to every State south of New York. I do
not go beyond it, because other influences would be
quite as efficacious there as mine.

A good use will be made of it in this State. I wish
a letter could be written here, stating the plan, and
Mr. Dallas' assertion respecting Pennsylvania, which
could be made use of without reserve. You well
know who could write such a letter, and of course to
whom it miight be addressed. Mr. Lewis would be
the most proper person to be written to. This is a
matter of importance, and if practicable no time
should be lost.

I wrote Mr. Jay a long letter, which I fear reached
New York after he had set out on the circuit, in-
forming him that I had concluded to advise a pro-
clamation; and my reasons for it, which included
some material facts not before communicated, I have
not leisure to repeat. The proclamation has been
signed by the President, and sent to Mr. Jefferson
for his counter-signature; I expect it here on Tues-
day, and have taken correspondent measures. I be-
lieve all is prudent and safe.

TO

Philadelphia, Sept. 26, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

Some days since I was surprised with the following
intelligence in a letter from Mr. King, whose name I
disclose to you in confidence.

'' Burr is industrious in his canvass, and his object
is well understood by our Antis. Mr. Edwards is to

22 Alexander Hamilton

make interest for him in Connecticut, and Mr. Dallas,
who is here, and quite in the circle of the Governor
and the party, informs us that Mr. Burr will be sup-
ported as Vice-President in Pennsylvania. Nothing
which has heretofore happened so decisively proves
the inveteracy of the opposition. Should they suc-
ceed, much would be to be apprehended."

Though in my situation I deem it most proper to
avoid interference in any matter relating to the elec-
tions for members of the government, yet I feel
reasons of sufficient force to induce a departure from
that rule in the present instance.

Mr. Burr's integrity as an individual is not un-
impeached. As a public man, he is one of the worst
sort — a friend to nothing but as it suits his interest
and ambition. Determined to climb to the highest
honors of the State, and as much higher as circum-
stances may permit, he cares nothing about the
means of effecting his purpose. 'T is evident that
he aims at putting himself at the head of what he
calls the ''popular party" as affording the best tools
for an ambitious man to work with, secretly turning
liberty into ridicule. He knows as well as most men
how to make use of the name. In a word, if we have
an embryo-Caesar in the United States, 't is Burr.

TO GEN. C. C. PINCKNEY '

Philadelphia, Oct. lo, 1792.

My Dear Sir:

I duly received your letter of the 6th September,
and have sent an extract to Mr. Church for the ex-

* General Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, of South Carolina.

Private Correspondence 23

plan at ion which is necessary. I feel myself truly
obliged by your friendly allusion to my unpleasant
situation, and for the consolation which you are so
kind as to offer me. The esteem of discerning and
virtuous men must always support a mind properly
formed under the pressure of malevolence and envy.
I will not pretend that I am insensible to the perse-
cution which I experience ; but it may be relied upon
that I shall desert no post which I ought to endeavor
to maintain, so long as my own reputation or the
public good may render perseverance necessary
or proper. When it is not requisite, either to the
one or the other, my friends will excuse me if I re-
collect that I have a growing and hitherto too much
neglected family. It is to be lamented that so
strong a spirit of faction and innovation prevails at
the present moment in a great part of the country.
The thing is alarming enough to call for the atten-
tion of every friend to government. Let me not be
thought to travel out of my sphere, if I observe that
a particular attention to the election for the next
Congress is dictated by the vigorous and general
effort which is making by factious men to introduce
everywhere, and in every department, persons un-
friendly to the measures, if not the constitution, of
the national government. Either Governor Clinton,
or Mr. Burr, of New York, both decidedly of the de-
scription of persons I have mentioned, is to be run
in this quarter as Vice-President, in opposition to
Mr. Adams. The former has been invariably the
enemy of national principles. The latter has no
other principles than to mount, at all events, to the

:} Vl

24 Alexander Hamilton

fiill honors of the State, and to as much more as cir-
cumstances will permit — a man in private life not
unblemished. It will be a real misfortune to the
government if either of them should prevail. 'T is
suspected by some that the plan is only to divide the
votes of the Northern and the Middle States, to let
in Mr. Jefferson by the votes of the South. I will not
scruple to say to you, in confidence, that this also
would be a serious misfortune to the government.
That gentleman whom I once very much esteemed ^
but who does not permit me to retain that sentiment
for him, is certainly a man of sublimated and para-
doxical imagination, entertaining and propagating
opinions inconsistent with dignified and orderly gov-
ernment. Mr. Adams, whatever objections may lie
against some of his theoretic opinions, is a firm,
honest, and independent politician. Some valuable
characters are about to be lost to the House of Re-
presentatives of their own choice. I feared once
that this would be the case with Mr. Smith, ^ of your
State ; but I believe his present intention is rather
to continue to serve. I trust there can be no doubt
of his success, and I wish means to be used to deter-
mine his acquiescence. He is truly an excellent
member — a ready, clear speaker, of a sound analytic
head, and the justest views. I know no man whose
loss from the House would be more severely felt by
the good cause. The delicacy of these observations
from me will, of course, occur to you; I make them
without reserve, confiding equally in your friendship
and prudence. Accept the assurances of the cordial

I Hon. Wm. Smith, South Carolina.

Private Correspondence 25

esteem and regard with which I have the honor to
remain.

TO JOHN STEELE '
My Dear Sir: Philadelphia, Oct. 15, 179-

The letter which you did me the favor to write me,
of the 19th of September, came to hand two days ago.
The late symptoms of acquiescence in the duty on
distilled spirits, which you announce in your quarter,
are particularly satisfactory. If the people will but
make trial of the thing, their good- will towards it will
increase. This has hitherto happened every^where,
where the law has gone into operation. There
certainly can be no tax more eligible or less burthen-
some. Though I impose on myself great circum-
spection on the subject of elections for the federal
government, yet, in relation to the characters you
mention, I feel myself more at liberty, and my entire
confidence in you will not permit me to affect re-
serve. I take it for granted that in all the Northern
and Middle States, the present President will have a
unanimous vote. I trust it will be so in the South
also. A want of unanimity would be a blot on
our political hemisphere, and would wound the mind
of that excellent character to whom the country is
so much indebted. For Vice-President, Mr. Adams
will have a nearly unanimous vote in the Eastern
States. The same thing would happen in New York
if the electors were to be chosen by the people ; but
as they will be chosen by the Legislature, and as a

^ Member of Congress from North Carolina, 1790 to 1793.

26 Alexander Hamilton

majority of the existing Assembly are Clintonians,
the electors will, I fear, be of the same complexion.
In Jersey, Mr. Adams will have a unanimous vote,
and, according to present appearances, in Pennsyl-
vania likewise. The parties have had a trial of their
strength here for representatives, and though the
issue is not finally ascertained, there is a moral cer-
tainty, from the returns received, that the ticket
supported by the federal interest will prevail by
a large majority. The electors nominated by the
same interest will all, or nearly all, favor Mr. Adams.
I believe the weight of Delaware will be thrown into
the same scale. And I think it probable there will
be votes for Mr. Adams in Maryland. I presume
none in Virginia or Georgia. Of North Carolina,
you can best judge. In South Carolina he will have
votes, but I am at a loss to judge of the proportion.
This statement will inform you that Mr. Adams
is the man who will be supported in the Northern and
' Middle States, by the friends of the Government.
They reason thus: "Mr. Adams, like other men,
has his faults and foibles ; some of the opinions he is
supposed to entertain, we do not approve, but we
believe him to be honest, firm, faithful, and inde-
pendent— a sincere lover of his country — a real
friend to genuine liberty, but combining his attach-
ment to that with love of order and stable govern-
ment. No man's private character can be fairer
than his. No man has given stronger proofs than
he of disinterested and intrepid patriotism. We
will therefore support him as far preferable to any
one who is likely to be opposed to him."

Private Correspondence 27

Who will be seriously opposed to him, I am yet at
a loss to decide. One while, Governor Clinton ap-
peared to be the man. Of late, there have been
symptoms of Col. Burr's canvassing for it. Some
say one or both of these will be played off as a diver-
sion in favor of Mr. Jefferson. I do not scruple to
say to you that my preference of Mr. Adams to
either of these is decided. As to Mr. Clinton, he is
a man of narrow and perverse politics, and as well
under the former as under the present government,
he has been steadily, since the termination of the
war with Great Britain, opposed to national prin-
ciples. My opinion of Mr. Burr is yet to form — but,
according to the present state of it, he is a man whose
only political principle is to mount at all events, to
the highest legal honors of the nation, and as much
further as circumstances will carry him. Imputa-
tions not favorable to his integrity as a man rest upon
him, but I do not vouch for their authenticity.

There was a time when I should have balanced
between Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Adams; but I now
view the former as a man of sublimated and para-
doxical imagination — cherishing notions incompati-
ble with regular and firm government.

Thus have I opened myself to you with frankness;
I doubt not I am perfectly safe in doing it.

You give me pain by telling me that you have
declined serving in the House of Representatives
after the third of March next, and that it is doubtful
whether you will attend the next session. I anx-
iously hope that you will find it convenient to at-
tend, and that you will change your resolution as to

^■i

28 Alexander Hamilton

not serving in a future House. The ensuing session
will be an interesting one, and the next Congress
will either anchor the government in safety or set it
afloat.

My apprehension is excited when I see so many
valuable members dropping off. Mr. Lawrence '
and Mr. Benson ^ will not serve again. Mr. Bam-
well ^ also declines. The House will, I fear, lose
more of its talents than it can spare.

TO JOHN ADAMS

October, 1792.

I trust you are sufficiently convinced of my re-
spect for you and attachment to you to render an
apology for the liberty I am going to take, unneces-
sary. I learn with pain that you may not probably
be here till late in the session. I fear that this wiU
give some handle to your enemies to misrepresent,
and though I am persuaded you are very indifferent
personally to the event of a certain election, yet I
hope you are not so as regards the cause of good
government. The difference in that view is, in my
conception, immense between the success of Mr.

^ John Lawrence, an Englishman by birth and a soldier in the
Revolution, was an eminent lawyer of New York, at this time a
member of Congress, and afterwards U. S. District Judge and Senator
from New York.

* Egbert Benson, at this time a member of Congress from New York,
and again in 181 3. Attorney-General of New York, 1 780-1789, and
from 1 794 to 1 80 1 a Judge of the Supreme Court of the State.

3 Robert Barnwell, member of Congress from South Carolina from
1791 to 1793.

Private Correspondence 29

Clinton or yourself, and some sacrifices of feeling are
to be made. But this is not the only relation in
which I deem your early presence here desirable.
Permit me to say it best suits the firmness and
elevation of your character to meet all events,
whether auspicious or otherwise, on the ground
where station and duty call you. One would not give
the ill-disposed the triumph of supposing that an
anticipation of want of success has kept you from
your post.

You observe, my dear sir, I speak without much
menagement. You will ascribe it to my confidence
and esteem. It is not necessary in any view to
multiply words. I forbear it ; but allow me to add
that it is the universal wish of your friends you
should be as soon as possible at Philadelphia.'

TO JOHN JAY

My Dear Sir: Philadelphia, Dec 18, 1792.

Your favors of the 26th of November and i6th
inst. have duly come to hand. I am ashamed that
the former has remained so long unacknowledged,
though I am persuaded my friends would readily
excuse my delinquencies could they appreciate my
situation. 'T is not the load of proper official busi-
ness that alone engrosses me, though this would be
enough to occupy any man. 'T is not the extra at-
tention I am obliged to pay to the course of legisla-
tive manoeuvres that alone adds to my burden and
perplexity. 'T is the malicious intrigues to stab me

I Reprinted from the History of the Republic, v., 02.

30 Alexander Hamilton

in the dark, against which I am too often obliged to
guard myself, that distract and harass me to a point
which, rendering my situation scarcely tolerable, in-
terferes with objects to which friendship and inclina-
tion would prompt me.

I have not, however, been unmindful of the sub-
ject of your letters. Mr. King will tell you the state
the business was in. Nothing material has happened
since. The representation will probably produce
some effect, though not as great as ought to be ex-
pected. Some changes for the better, I trust, will
take place.

The success of the Vice-President is as great a
source of satisfaction as that of Mr. Clinton would
have been of mortification and pain to me. Will-
ingly, however, would I relinquish my share of the
command to the Anti-federalists if I thought they
were to be trusted. But I have so many proofs of
the contrary, as to make me dread the experiment
of their preponderance.'

TO RICHARD HARRISON '

Philadelphia, Jan. 5, 1793.

Dear Sir:

Le Roy has not yet appeared with the powers
and receipts mentioned in your letter of the 31st

' Reprinted from Life of Jay, ii., 213.

^ Richard Harrison was bom in 1750. He was our Consul at Cadiz
for five years, and this letter seems to have been written at the time of
his return from his consulship and on the presentation of his accounts.
In this year, 1793, he was appointed Auditor of the Treasury, a position
which he held until his death, in 1841.

Private Correspondence 31

December. Every practicable facility will be given
to the business when it conies forward. But I be-
lieve, according to the course of the Treasury, a cer-
tificate, not money, will be given for the balance.
Your account is returned with directory remarks
upon it. I am sorry you should have the trouble of
so many different applications, but the course of
public business requires it.

I am more sorry that we have been deprived of
the pleasure of seeing you. Every friend I see from
a place I love is a cordial to me, and I stand in need
of something of that kind now and then.

The triumphs of vice are no new thing under the
sim, and I fear, till the millennium comes, in spite of
all our boasted light and purification, hypocrisy and
treachery will continue to be the most successful
commodities in the political market. It seems to
be the destined lot of nations to mistake their foes
for their friends, their flatterers for their faithful
servants.

TO WILLIAM SHORT ^

(Private.)

Philadelphia, Feb. 5, 1793.

Sir:

The spirit of party has grown to maturity sooner
in this country than perhaps was to have been
counted upon. You will see a specimen of it in

I William Short, of Virginia, was Minister to the Hague and in
charge of our financial negotiations in Holland, and was afterwards
Minister to Spain.

32 Alexander Hamilton

the inclosed speech of Mr. Giles, a member from
Virginia. The House of Representatives adopted
the resolutions proposed by him, nemine contra-
dicente. The object, with a majority, was to con-
found the attempt, by giving a free course to
investigation.

I send you, also, a printed copy of a letter from me
to the House of Representatives, of yesterday's date
being the first part of an answer to those resolutions.
The statements referred to in it could not yet be
printed, but lest the thing should pass the Atlantic
and be made an ill use of to the prejudice of our
country, I send you the antidote, to be employed or
not, as you may see occasion.

An investigation intended to prejudice me is begun
with respect to the circumstances attending the last
payment on account of the French debt, which, in
its progress, may draw your conduct into question.
I think, however, you need be under no anxiety for
the result. Your hesitations, at a certain stage,
were so natural, and your reasons so weighty for
them, that they will give little handle against you,
besides the coincidence in opinion here about the
expediency of a suspension of payment. The popu-
lar tide in this country is strong in favor of the last
revolution in France; and there are many who go,
of course, with that tide, and endeavor always to
turn it to account. For my own part, I content my-
self with praying most sincerely that it may issue in
the real advantage and happiness of the nation.

Private Correspondence 33

TO RUFUS KING
T., T-v r, Philadelphia, April 2, 170'?.

My Dear Sir: - p ' /y^

When you are acquainted with all the facts, I
think you will alter the opinion you appear to enter-
tain. My application comes literally within your
rule. The loan is necessary for the current expendi-
ture, independent of any new advance to France, or
of purchases of the debt. This has arisen from my
having been under the necessity of remitting to
Holland, for a payment in June of 1,000,000 guilders,
as an instalment of the principal, and 470,000 guild-
ers for interest of the Dutch debt.

Late advices rendering it problematical whether a
loan could be obtained for the purpose of the instal-
ment, it became necessary to make this remittance
to avoid danger to the public credit.

Hence, without a loan from the bank, I ought to
calculate upon a deficiency in the present quarter
(remember we are in April) of 672,023 dollars and
26 cents, and in the next, of 325,447 dollars and 28
cents.

This is the result of as accurate a view of receipts
and expenditures as can now be taken. You will
anticipate that, by all the expenditures not falling
actually within the periods to which they are applica-
ble, the real deficiency would not be so great as the
calculated ; but you will, at the same time, perceive
that the view given supposes a state of the Treasury
which renders an auxiliary indispensable.

At the same time, I cannot but think that you
apply your principle too rigorously. I ought not to

VOL. X.— 3.

34 Alexander Hamilton

be forced to divert for a length of time funds appro-
priated for other purposes, to the current expendi-
ture. To compel this would be, in substance to
withhold the means necessary for the public service ;
for it would oblige the Treasury to employ an adven-
titious resource, which ought not be so employed,
and that too at a time when it could be employed ad-
vantageously, according to its original and true des-
tination. I therefore think, independent of the real
exigency, the bank ought to make the loan.

The loans to government stand on very different
considerations from those to individuals. Besides
the chartered privileges, which are the grant of the
government, the vast deposits constantly on hand,
and which ordinarily exceed the loans from the bank,
frequently very greatly, are an advantage which,
generally speaking, bears no proportion to the ad-
vantages of the dealings between individuals and the
bank. Consider, too, what has been the state of
things for some time past, and the real sacrifices
which have been made not to distress the institution.

If for such accommodations equivalent services
are not to be rendered, they could not easily be
defended.

Besides, from the necessity of having a consider-
able sum on hand in the Treasury, and the natural
course of the business, the bank is pretty sure of
having always on deposit a large part of what it
lends to the government. This does not exist in any
thing like the same degree, in the case of individuals.

You seem to calculate that the past advances will
not be replaced. On the contrary, it is my inten-

Private Correspondence 35

tion, pursuant to stipulation, to repay as fast as the
funds come in applicable to it ; and in the last quarter
of the year I hope to make a considerable progress in
the reimbursement; till then, it will not be prac-
ticable.

I do not know whether Mr. Kane stated to you the
nature of my proposal. It was that the payments
should be made in four equal monthly instalments —
the first on the first of June — and that each instal-
ment should be reimbursed in six months. The real
advance of the bank will be very temporary indeed
before greater sums will come into its vaults from
the duties. In the last quarter of the present and
the first quarter of the ensuing year, very large re-
ceipts may be expected.

You are sure that while I seek to put myself in a
proper posture, I shall not fail to have a due regard
to the safety of the institution.

It is much to be wished that I could be enabled to
make some purchases, though this will not be the
case with the loan in question, unless a loan shall
also have been obtained in Europe.

A meeting of the commissioners has lately been
called by Mr. Jefferson, out of the course heretofore
practised, in which I have been pressed to declare
whether I had or had not funds applicable to purchases.
I answered so as to be safe. But you readily perceive
the design of this movement. There is no doubt in
my mind that the next session will revive the attack
with more system and earnestness — and it is surely
not the interest of any body or any thing that a
serious handle should be furnished.

36 Alexander Hamilton

On the whole, I am persuaded that the bank can
do what I ask without real inconvenience to itself;
and my situation is such that I shall be compelled
to find an aiixiliary.

All the cry here is for peace. How is it with you?

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, April 5, i793-

Sir:

The ship John Buckley is just arrived here from
Lisbon, which place she left on the 23d of February.

The Messrs. Wains, a respectable mercantile house
here, have received a letter from Mr. John Buckley,
a respectable merchant of Lisbon, after whom the
ship is named, of which the following is an extract :

" By letters from France, by this day's post, we
find that an embargo took place there the 2d instant
on all English, Russian, and Dutch vessels, which is
certainly the prelude of war." This letter is dated
the 2 2d of February.

Messrs. Wains, in addition, inform , that on

the 23d of February, the moment the ship was getting
under way, Mr. Buckley came on board with a letter
from Mr. Fenwick, of Bordeaux, informing him that
war had been declared by France against England,
Russia, and Holland. The foregoing particulars I
have directly from the Wains.

The report in the city is that the war was declared
on the 8th of February.

Combining this with the letter of Lord Grenville to

Private Correspondence 37

Mr. Chauvelin, requiring his departure, and the king's
message to the House of Commons, foimded upon it
— there seems to be no room for doubt of the exist-
ence of war.

P. S. — I this instant learn that there are EngHsh
papers in town, by way of St. Vincent, which men-
tion that on the 8th of February the late Queen of
France was also put to death, after a trial and con-
demnation.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, April 8, 1793.

Sir:

The papers of to-day, which I take it for granted
are forwarded to you, will inform you of the con-
firmation of the war between France, England, and
Holland, and of such other leading particulars as are
contained in the English papers brought by the
packet.

The object of this letter is merely to apprise you
that the whole current of commercial intelligence^
which comes down to the i ith of February, indicates
thus far an unexceptionable conduct on the part of
the British Government towards the vessels of the
United States.

The information is received here with very great
satisfaction, as favorable to the continuance of peace,
the desire of which may be said to be both universal
and ardent.

P. S. — Lest the papers may not be regularly
transmitted, I enclose the two of this morning.

38 Alexander Hamilton

TO JOHN JAY
Dear Sir* Philadelphia, April 9, 1793.

When we last conversed together on the subject,
we were both of opinion that the minister expected
from France should be received.

Subsequent circumstances have perhaps induced an
additional embarrassment on this point, and render
it advisable to reconsider the opinion generally, and
to raise this further question, Whether he ought to
be received absolutely or with qualifications. The
king has been decapitated. Out of this will arise a
regent, acknowledged and supported by the powers
of Europe almost universally, in capacity to act, and
who may himself send an ambassador to the United
States. Should we in such case receive both? If
we receive one from the republic and refuse the
other, shall we stand on ground perfectly neutral?
If we receive a minister from the republic, shall we
be afterward at liberty to say. We will not decide
whether there is a government in France competent
to demand from us the performance of the existing
treaties? What the government of France shall be
is the very point in dispute. Till that is decided,
the applicability of the treaties is suspended. When
that government is established, we shall consider
whether such changes had been made as to render
their continuance incompatible with the interest of
the United States. If we shall not have concluded
ourselves by any act, I am of opinion that we have
at least a right to hold the thing suspended. Till
the point in dispute is decided, I doubt whether we

Private Correspondence 39

could bona fide dispute the ultimate obligation of the
treaties. Will the unqualified reception of a min-
ister conclude us? If it will, ought we so to con-
clude ourselves? Ought we not rather to refuse
receiving, or to receive with qualifications ; declaring
that we receive the person as the representative of
the government, in fact, of the French nation, re-
serving to ourselves the right to consider the ap-
plicability of the treaties to the actual situation
of the parties? These are questions which require
our utmost wisdom. I would give a great deal for
a personal discussion with you. Imprudent things
have already been done, which render it proportion-
ally important that every succeeding step should be
well considered.'

TO JOHN JAY

Philadelphia, April 9, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

I have already written you by this post. A fur-
ther question occurs — Would not a proclamation
prohibiting our citizens from taking commissions on
either side be proper? Would it be well that it
should include a declaration of neutrality? If you
think the measure prudent, could you draught such
a thing as you would deem proper? I wish much
you could.^

^ Reprinted from Life of Jay, i., 298. ' Ibid., 300.

40 Alexander Hamilton

TO RUFUS KING

Philadelphia, May 2, 1793.

The failures in England will be so seriously felt in
this country as to involve a real crisis in our money
concerns.

I anxiously wish you could be here to assist in the
operations of the Bank of the United States. Never
was there a time which required more the union of
courage and prudence than the present and approach-
ing juncture. You can imagine all that I could add
on this subject. Is it possible for you to spend a
month with us?

TO JEFFERSON '

Treasury Department, May 3, 1793.

Sir:

I regret extremely that I did not receive your
letter respecting Mr. Temant's application till two
o'clock yesterday, after a warrant had issued in his
favor for the sum requested.

Agreeing entirely in opinion with you, that all ap-
plications from diplomatic characters, as well those
relating to pecuniary matters as others, ought to be
addressed to your department, I should have taken
no step on the present occasion, had it not been put
on the footing of a previous arrangement (as you will
perceive by the copy of Mr. Ternant's note to me),
and had I not myself carried along in my mind a

I This, and the other letters to Jefferson which follow, simply show
the strained relations between Jefferson and Hamilton, and the widen-
ing of the breach which finally resulted in open enmity.

Private Correspondence 41

general impression that the spirit of what had passed
would comprise the advance requested in the par-
ticular case.

For greater caution, however, I thought it advis-
able to mention the matter to the President, which
was followed (if I remember right, upon my own
suggestion) by the conversation which I had with
you.

You will remember that though your recollection
at the time of what had passed from you agreed with
what had been the result of your subsequent ex-
amination, yet you expressed an opinion that in the
special case (adhering as a general rule to the spirit
of your late communication) it ought to be ad-
visable to make the advance desired, as it would be
well ''to part friends.'' And it was at my request,
subsequent to this declaration, that you engaged to
review your communications to Mr. Temant.

Having told Mr. Temant that the matter would be
terminated the day succeeding his application — not
having heard from you on that day — understanding
it to be your opinion that, on the whole, it would be
well to make the advance, — I waited on the Presi-
dent yesterday morning, stated what had passed be-
tween us, and obtained his consent for making the
advance.

I am thus particular from a desire that you
may see the ground upon which I have proceeded,
as it would give me pain that you should consider
what has been done as the infringement of a rule of
official propriety. I assure you this was not my
intention.

42 Alexander Hamilton

TO '

May, 1793,

You ask me if the newspapers of Philadelphia give
a true picture of the conduct of its citizens on the
occasion of the arrival of Mr. Genet, and whether the
great body of them are really as indiscreet as those
papers represent them.

It gives me pleasure to be able to answer you in
the negative. I can assure you upon the best evi-
dence that, comparatively speaking, but a small pro-
portion of them have had agency in the business.

Though the papers, on the morning of the day of
Mr. Genet's arrival, announced his approach, and at

o'clock , three guns were fired from the

frigate as a signal to those who were disposed to go
to meet him at Gray's ferry, as had been previously
concerted and notified in the papers, and though we
are told by some of the printers that all the outlets
from the city were crowded with persons going out
to meet Mr. Genet, the fact is that a very inconsider-
able number indeed went out. It is seldom easy to
speak with absolute certainty in such cases, but from
all I could observe or have been able to learn, I be-
lieve the number would be stated high at a htmdred
persons.

In the evening of the same day, according to no-
tice in an evening paper which came out earlier than
usual for the purpose, a meeting was convened at
the State House yard under the direction of the same

' This letter is undated, but it must have been written at this time,
as Genet reached Philadelphia May 16, 1793, and the letter relates to
that event.

Private Correspondence 43

persons who had projected the going out to Gray^s.
This meeting was also inconsiderable. From forty
to one hundred persons give you the extremes of the
numbers present, as reported by those who were at
the meeting or in a situation to observe it.

Here a committee was appointed to prepare an
address to Mr. Genet; and another meeting of the
citizens was advertised for the ensuing evening at
the same place, the object of which, it seems, was
to consider and approve the address.

This last meeting is stated differently from three
himdred to one thousand. An accurate observer, ^
who was a by-stander and paid particular attention
to the matter, assures me that there were between
five and six hundred assembled. I rely upon this as
about the truth.

The persons who were met approved the address
which had been prepared, and, as you have seen,
nominated a committee to present it, whom they
accompanied to Mr. Genet's lodging at the City
Tavern.

On their way to the City Tavern their number
was, as you will imagine, considerably increased.
A crowd will always draw a crowd, whatever be the
purpose. Curiosity will supply the place of attach-
ment to or interest in the object. What number
may have been assembled in the vicinity of the
City Tavern, it is impossible to say. The evening
being pretty far advanced, was alone an obstacle to
judging.

But the true test was the meeting in the State
House yard. 'T is there we are to look for the real

44 Alexander Hamilton

partisans of the measure. And, according to this
standard, it may be pronounced that not a tenth part
of the city participated in it.

You ask who were its promoters. I answer, that
with very few exceptions they were the same men
who have been uniformly the enemies and the dis-
turbers of the government of the United States. It
will not be surprising if we see ere long a curious
combination growing up to control its measures, with
regard to foreign politics, at the expense of the peace
of the country — perhaps at a still greater expense.

We too have our disorganizers. But I trust there
is enough of virtue and good sense in the people of
America to bafBe every attempt against their pro-
sperity, though masked under the specious garb of an
extraordinary zeal for liberty. They practically, I
doubt not, adopt this sacred maxim, that without
government there is no true liberty.

I agree with you in the reflections you make on
the tendency of public demonstrations of attach-
ment to the cause of France. 'T is certainly not
wise to expose ourselves to the jealousy and resent-
ment of the rest of the world, by a fruitless display
of zeal for that cause. It may do us much harm, and
it can do France no good (unless indeed we are to
embark in the war with her, which nobody is so
hardy as to avow, though some secretly machinate
it). It cannot be without danger and inconvenience
to our interests to impress on the nations of Europe
an idea that we are actuated by the same spirit
which has for some time past fatally misguided the
measures of those who conduct the affairs of France,

Private Correspondence 45

and sullied a cause once glorious, and that might
have been triumphant. The cause of France is
compared with that of America during its late revo-
lution. Would to Heaven that the comparison were
just. Would to Heaven we could discern in the
mirror of French affairs the same humanity, the
sam.e decorum, the same gravity, the same order,
the same dignity, the same solemnity, which dis-
tinguished the cause of the American Revolution.
Clouds and darkness would not then rest upon the
issue as they now do. I own I do not like the com-
parison. When I contemplate the horrid and sys-
tematic massacres of the 2d and 3d of September;
when I observe that a Marat and a Robespierre, the
notorious prompters of those bloody scenes, sit tri-
umphantly in the convention and take a conspicuous
part in its measures — that an attempt to bring the
assassins to justice has been obliged to be aban-
doned; when I see an unfortunate prince, whose
reign was a continued demonstration of the good-
ness and benevolence of his heart, of his attachment
to the people of whom he was the monarch, who,
though educated in the lap of despotism, had given
repeated proofs that he was not the enemy of liberty,
brought precipitately and ignominiously to the block
without any substantial proof of guilt, as yet dis-
closed— ^without even an authentic exhibition of
motives, in decent regard to the opinions of man-
kind; when I find the doctrines of atheism openly
advanced in the convention, and heard with loud
applause; when I see the sword of fanaticism ex-
tended to force a political creed upon citizens who

46 Alexander Hamilton

were invited to submit to the arms of France as the
harbingers of liberty; when I behold the hand of
rapacity outstretched to prostrate and ravish the
monuments of religious worship, erected by those
citizens and their ancestors; when I perceive pas-
sion, tumult, and violence usurping those seats,
where reason and cool deliberation ought to preside,
I acknowledge that I am glad to believe there is no
real resemblance between what was the cause of
America and what is the cause of France — that the
difference is no less great than that between liberty
and licentiousness. I regret whatever has a ten-
dency to compound them, and I feel anxious, as an
American, that the ebullitions of inconsiderate men
among us may not tend to involve our reputation in
the issue.

TO RUFUS KING

June 15, 1793.

Dear Sir:

The ideas expressed in your letter of the 14th
correspond with my view of the subject in general.
I did not perceive that any process could be devised
to detain the privateer, and concluded that the issue
would be to leave her in military custody. Indeed,
I believe this was rather the expectation with all,
though it was thought advisable to make the experi-
ment of a reference to the civil tribunal.

With regard to the Catharine ^ I also entertain the
doubt you appear to have. In the case of the
Grange, the surrender was brought about by a de-

Private Correspondence 47

mand of Mr. Genet and his interposition. But it
was in contemplation of employing the military in
case of refusal.

Yet, since that time, a libel has been filed in the
District Court in the case of another vessel alleged
to have been captured within the limits of our ju-
risdiction. And both Mr. Lewis and Mr. Rawle,
Attorney of the District, hold that the District or Ad-
miralty Court will take cognizance of this question.
They argue that it would be a great chasm in the law
that there should not be some competent judicial
authority to do justice between parties in the case
of an illegal seizure within our jurisdiction. That
the Court of Admiralty has naturally cognizance of
tortious takings on the high seas, and as she gives re-
lief in rem, may cause a re-delivery. That though,
as a general principle, a court of a neutral nation will
not examine the question of prize or not prize be-
tween belligerent powers, yet this principle must ex-
cept the case of the infraction of the jurisdiction of
the neutral power itself. Quoad this fact, its courts
will interpose and give relief.

This is their reasoning, and it has much force.
The desire of the Executive is to have the point as-
certained, and if possible to put the affair in this
train. There may arise nice difficulties about the
factj and nice points about the extent of jurisdiction
at sea, which the courts had best settle.

The contest in form must, as you say, be between
the owners and the captors. For this purpose Mr.
Hammond is to cause the proper instructions to be
given.

48 Alexander Hamilton

There is a letter from me to Harrisons If Troup
has not opened it, let him do it.

TO GEN. OTHO H. WILLIAMS

(Private and Confidential.)

Philadelphia, June 21, 1793.

My Dear Sir:

I learnt with real pleasure your return from the
West Indies in improved health. Be assured that I
interest myself with friendship in your welfare.

The Collector of Annapolis has announced his in-
tention to resign by the first of next month. Do
you know a character there fit and probably willing
to serve? There is a salary of 200 dollars a year,
besides the percentage and fees. The whole, how-
ever, is moderate enough.

If any inquiry is made, it must be so as to avoid
all possible commitment. For it is the President's
practice to seek information through different chan-
nels and to decide according to the result of the
whole.*

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, June 21, 1793.

Sir:

Considerations relative to both the public interest
and to my own delicacy have brought me, after
mature reflection, to a resolution to resign the office

' Richard Harrison mentioned above.

2 Now first printed from the original in the possession of Mr. Otho H.
Williams, of Baltimore.

Private Correspondence 49

I hold towards the close of the ensuing session of
Congress.

I postpone the final act to that period, because
some propositions remain to be submitted by me to
Congress which are necessary to the full development
of my original plan, and, as I suppose, of some con-
sequence to my reputation, and because, in the sec-
ond place, I am desirous of giving an opportunity,
while I shall still be in office, to the revival and more
deliberate prosecution of the inquiry into my con-
duct which was instituted during the last session.

I think it proper to communicate my determina-
tion thus early, among other reasons, because it will
afford full time to investigate and weigh all the con-
siderations which ought to guide the appointment of
my successor.

TO ONE OF THE CREDITORS OF COL. DUER '

August, 1793.

Dear Sir:

Poor Duer has now had a long and severe confine-
ment, such as would be adequate punishment for no
trifling crime. I am well aware of all the blame to
which he is liable and do not mean to be his apolo-
gist, though I believe he has been as much the dupe
of his own imagination as others have been the vic-
tims of his projects. But what then? He is a man
— ^he is a man with whom we have both been in

* Colonel Duer remained in prison for five years {Reminiscences of
James A. Hamilton, p. 5). I give this letter as dated in the edition of
1850, where it is misplaced, but its language would suggest a later
period, somewhat near the end of Duer's confinement in 1797.

VOL. X.— 4.

50 Alexander Hamilton

habits of friendly intimacy. He is a man who, with
a great deal of good zeal, has in critical times ren-
dered valuable services to the country. He is a
husband who has a most worthy and amiable wife
perishing with chagrin at his situation; your rela-
tion by blood, mine by marriage. He is a father
who has a number of fine children destitute of the
means of education and support, every way in need
of his future exertions.

These are titled to sympathy, which I shall be
mistaken if you do not feel. You are his creditor.
Your example may influence others. He wants per-
mission, through a letter of license, to breathe the
air for five years. Your signature to the inclosed
draft of one will give me much pleasure.

TO RUFUS KING *
Dear Sir: Philadelphia, Aug. 13, 1793.

The post of to-day brought me your letter of the
loth, but I was too much engaged to reply to it by
return of post.

The facts with regard to Mr. Genet's threat, to
appeal from the President to the people, stand thus:

On Saturday, the 6th of July last, the warden of this
port reported to Governor Mifflin that the brig Little

^ Chief-Justice Jay and Mr. King had declared publicly that Genet
had threatened to appeal to the people against the President, which
produced profound indignation, and turned the c\irrent of public feel-
ing against Genet and his partisans. Freeman's Gazette was frantic in
its abuse of the informers, as it called them, and Genet denied the
charge. Finally Jay and King made a decisive cotmter-statement,
and this letter was written probably to aid in its preparation.

Private Correspondence 51

Sarah, since called the Petit Democrat {an English
merchant vessel, mounting from two to four guns, taken
off our coast by the French frigate the Ambuscade, and
brought into this port), had very materially altered her
military equipments, having then fourteen iron cannon
and six swivels mounted, and it being understood that
her crew was to consist of one hundred and twenty men.

Governor Mifflin, in consequence of this informa-
tion, sent Mr. Dallas to Mr. Genet to endeavor to
prevail upon him to enter into an arrangement for de-
taining the vessel in port, without the necessity of em-
ploying for that purpose military force.

Mr. Dallas reported to Governor Mifflin that Mr.
Genet had absolutely refused to do what had been re-
quested of him, that he had been very angry and in-
temperate, that he had complained of ill-treatment from
the government, and had declared that ''he would ap-
peal from the President to the people ' '; mentioned his
expectation of the arrival of three ships of the line,
observing that he would know how to do justice to
his country, or, at least, he had a frigate at his com-
mand, and could easily withdraw himself from this;
said that he would not advise an attempt to take posses-
sion of the vessel, as it would be resisted. ^

The refusal was so peremptory that Governor Mifflin,
in consequence of it, ordered out 120 men for the pur-
pose of taking possession of the vessel.

This conversation between Genet and Dallas was
in toto repeated by General Mifflin to General Knox
the day following, and the day after that the gov-
ernor confirmed to me the declaration with regard to
appealing to the people, owned that something like

52 Alexander Hamilton

the threat to do justice to his country by means of
the ships of the line was thrown out by Mr. Genet,
but showed an unwillingness to be explicit on this
point, objecting to a more particular disclosure, that
it would tend to bring Mr. Dallas into a scrape.

Mr. Jefferson, on Sunday, went to Mr. Genet, to
endeavor to prevail upon him to detain the Petit Demo-
crat until the President could return and decide upon
the case, hut, as Mr. Jefferson afterwards communi-
cated, he absolutely refused to give a promise of the
kind, saying only that she would not probably be ready
to depart before the succeeding Wednesday, the day of
the President's expected return. This, however, Mr.
Jefferson construed into an intimation that she would
remain. Mr. Jefferson also informed that Mr. Genet
had been very unreasonable and intemperate in his
conversation (though he did not descend to par-
ticulars), and that Dallas had likewise told him {Mr.
Jefferson) that Genet had declared he would appeal
from the President to the people.

The Petit Democrat, instead of remaining, as Mr.
Jefferson had concluded, fell down to Chester previous
to the Wednesday referred to, where she was when
the President returned. A letter was written to Mr.
Genet, by order of the President, informing him that the
case of the vessel, among others, was under considera-
tion, and desiring that she might be detained until he
should come to a decision about her, but this requisition
was disregarded. She departed in defiance of it.

I give this detail that you may have the whole
subject before you, but I cannot authorize you to
make use of it all. The circumstance of the letter

Private Correspondence 53

may be omitted. It may be said generally that a
requisition was made of Mr. Genet, by order of the
President, for the detention of the vessel. All that
part, however, which is scored or underlined, may be
freely made up. This part is so circumstanced as to
take away all scruples of personal or political deli-
cacy. 'T is not so with the rest. It can therefore
only be confidentially disclosed to persons whose
discretion may be relied on, and whose knowledge of
it may be useful.

It is true (as you have heard) that things, if possi-
ble still more insulting, have since been done by Mr.
Genet; but of this at present no use can be made,
no more than of some antecedent transactions nearly,
if not quite, as exceptional. The mass would con-
found Mr. Genet and his associates. Perhaps it may
not be long before a promulgation will take place.

I am of opinion with you that the charge ought to
be insisted upon.

P. S. — The case does not require the naming Gen-
eral Knox or myself, and it will therefore not be done.
It is to be observed that the equipments of the Petit
Democrat are, in the strictest sense, an original fitting
out. She was before a merchant vessel; here she
was converted into a vessel commissioned for war, of
considerable force.

to rufus king

My Dear Sir: ''"^^'' '''''

It is not yet finally determined that there shall be
a publication, and there has been some difference of

54 Alexander Hamilton

opinion on the point. But it seems to me the pub-
lication of the letters renders it indispensable that
the whole should be told. Yet, when it appears, it
will probably include only what is regularly official,
so that the present question may be pursued inde-
pendently.

Perhaps you will not think it necessary at first to
say to whom Dallas reported the conversation. Yet,
if you deem it essential, it may be done, and should
it be finally necessary, which is not at all probable,
General Knox and myself will come forward as
witnesses.

TO MRS. GENERAL GREENE

Philadelphia, Sept. 3, 1793.

It is not an uncommon thing for you women to
bring us poor men into scrapes. It seems you have
brought me into one. You will wonder how. Hear
the tale.

Shortly after I came into office, Wadsworth in-
formed me that Baron Glaubeck was indebted to
General Greene (to whom he had behaved in a very
exceptionable manner), and that it was intended to
endeavor to purchase of Glaubeck some pay which
had been just granted to him by Congress, upon the
plan of advancing to him a certain sum of money to
satisfy his immediate necessities, and the residue
that was due to him to be applied towards the in-
demnification of the General's estate for what Glau-
beck owed to it. I afterwards understood that the
execution of this plan was committed to Flint or

Private Correspondence 55

Duer, or one or both of them, and that a purchase
of the claim was, in fact, made — not, indeed, to
Glaubeck, but of some person to whom he had parted
with it for some trifling consideration — the object
being throughout to benefit you by way of indemni-
fication as above mentioned.

It likewise would appear from the Treasury records
that you have in fact received the whole benefit of
the purchase. The conversations we had together
when you were last in Philadelphia assure me at
least that the certificate for four fifths of his claim
accrued immediately to your use.

Francis, late a clerk in my department (partly
from resentment at a disappointment he has met
with at the Treasury, and partly, I believe, from
it having been made worth his while by some political
enemies of mine), endeavors to have it believed that
this transaction was a speculation in which I was
engaged, and in proof of it, shows a draft of a power
of attorney, corrected by some interlineations in my
handwriting, as he asserts.

I do not recollect this part of the business, though
I think it very possible that such a correction, in
such a draft, may have been made by me.

For Duer or Flint, it seems, employed Francis to
make the purchase, and it is not unlikely that a
draft of a power for the purpose may have been
brought to me, to know from me whether it would
answer the purpose of the Treasury as a competent
instrument, and that I (believing the design to be
such as I have represented — one not only unexcep-
tionable, but laudable — one in which my friendship

56 Alexander Hamilton

for you would naturally take part) may have taken
up my pen and made such corrections as the draft
might appear to stand in need of.

I give you this detail to show you how I may have
been implicated.

What I wish of you is that you will have the good-
ness to state in writing what you know of the affair,
ascertaining that the purchase was for your benefit
and the cause of it, and that you will take the trouble
to make affidavit to the statement, and forward it to
me.

As it is an affair of delicacy, I will thank you to
request some gentleman of the law to give form and
precision to your narrative.

You perceive that it is not in one way only that I
am the object of unprincipled persecution; but I
console myself with these lines of the poet —

But optics sharp it needs, I ween,
To see what is not to be seen;

and with this belief, that in spite of caliminy the
friends I love and esteem will continue to love and
esteem me.

TO JEREMIAH WADSWORTH

Philadelphia, Sept. 3, 1793.

My Dear Wadsworth:

Shortly after I came into office I remember your
having told me that Glaubeck (whom you repre-
sented as a worthless and ungrateful fellow) was in-
debted to General Green's estate, I think for money
lent him, and that it was your intention to endeavor

Private Correspondence 57

to effect a purchase of his pubHc claim, and allow
him some part of it for his immediate necessities,
letting the residue be an indemnification [original
illegible] estate; or, in other words, go to the [ori-
ginal illegible] that he would [original illegible] some-
thing [original illegible] you left the city; that you
had left the business in charge with Flint.

The purchase of the claim was afterwards made
through a second hand, and it appears in fact that
Mrs. Greene has had the benefit of it.

Francis, lately a clerk in my department, prompted
partly by resentment and partly, I believe, by some
political enemies, gives out that I assisted in this
affair as a speculation, and, to prove it, shows the
draft of a power for assigning the claim, with some
corrections, which are said to be in my handwriting.

Whether this be so or not I really do not now
recollect, but I think it very possible that, having
understood the matter in the light I have stated
from you, and viewing the transaction [original il-
legible] precision the course of the transaction as it
stands in your recollection, partictilarly what passed
between you and myself in the first instance. If
not inconvenient to you, I should even be glad that
you would attest to it.

TO MISS ANGELICA HAMILTON

September 21, 1793.

I was very glad to learn, my dear daughter, that
you were going to begin the study of the French
language. We hope you will in every respect

5^ Alexander Hamilton

behave in such a manner as will secure to you the
good- will and regard of all those with whom you are.
If you happen to displease any of them, be always
ready to make a frank apology. But the best way
is to act with so much politeness, good manners, and
circumspection as never to have occasion to make
any apology. Your mother joins in best love to you.
Adieu, my very dear daughter.^

TO

Albany, October i, 1793.

Contemptible as you are, what answer could I
give to your last letter? The enclosed is a copy of
what shortly will appear in one of the gazettes of the
City of New York:

'' One Andrew G. Francis, late clerk in the Treas-
ury Department, has been endeavoring to have it
believed that he is possessed of some facts of a na-
ture to criminate the official conduct of the Secretary
of the Treasury, an idea to which, for obvious rea-
sons, an extensive circulation has been given by a
certain description of persons.

*' The public may be assured that the said Francis
has been regularly and repeatedly called upon to
declare the grounds of his suggestion, that he has
repeatedly evaded the inquiry, that he possesses no
facts of the nature pretended, and that he is a de-
spicable calumniator." "^

^ Reprinted from Reminiscences of J. A. Hamilton, p. 4.
2 This letter is reprinted from the History of the Republic, vol. v., p.
424. At the previous session Giles and Madison had made this attack

Private Correspondence 59

TO COLONEL OLNEY '
Dear Sir* Philadelphia, Nov. 26, 1793.

Some embarrassment has arisen on the subject of
a fit person for District Attorney of Rhode Island.
Mr. Howell ^ has been strongly recommended on the
one hand, and positively objected to on another, and

Mr. has been proposed in opposition. Your

opinion does not appear on either side.

The President is desirous of further information,
and I have undertaken to procure it for him. In
addressing myself to you on the point, I proceed on
an assurance of your judgment and candor. I re-
quest your ideas of the candidates fully and freely,
promising that it shall not in any shape compromit
you. Be so good as to state not only the qualifica-
tions of each, but the collateral circumstances affecting
the public service, which will be likely to attend the
appointment of either.

on Hamilton, who had replied to them, and who then, on December 16,
1792, asked for another inquiry. Before this his enemies attempted to
arouse feeling against him by procuring one Francis, a dismissed clerk,
to declare that Hamilton had speculated in soldiers' certificates, and
they are said even to have sent a lawyer to Philadelphia to collect
evidence. Hamilton thereupon published the card quoted above, which
dashed the whole slander to pieces. It was in this connection that
this letter was written, but the whole matter is so blindly stated in the
History of the Republic that it is impossible to tell whether the letter
was addressed to the lawyer just referred to, to some anonymous
assailant, or to some one of the Secretary's open enemies.

' Colonel Jeremiah Olney, of Rhode Island, a soldier of the Revolu-
tion and Collector of Customs at Providence.

2 David Howell, of Rhode Island, Professor of Law in Brown Uni-
versity. He had been delegate to Congress, 1 782-1 785, and Attorney-
General and Judge of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island. He was
appointed District Attorney, and from 1812 till his death, in 1824, was
U. S. District Judge.

6o Alexander Hamilton

It is regretted that the affair has assumed too
much a party complexion. This suggests an in-
quiry whether there be not some third character
competent, eligible, and who would not be liable to
a similar difficulty. The more speedy your answer,
the more it will oblige.

TO THE UNITED STATES SENATE
^ Treasury Department, Feb. 22, 1794.

Sir:

I have received a late order of the Senate on the
subject of a petition of Arthur Hughes. Diligent
search has been made for such a petition, and it
has not been found. Neither have I now a distinct
recollection of ever having seen it. Whether, there-
fore, it may not have originally failed in the trans-
mission to me, or may have become mislaid by a
temporary displacement of the papers of my imme-
diate office, occasioned by a fire which consumed a
part of the building in the use of the Treasury, or by
some of those accidents which in an extensive scene
of business will sometimes attend papers, especially
those of inferior importance, is equally open to con-
viction. There is no record in the office of its having
been received, nor do any of my clerks remember to
have seen it. A search in the Auditor's office has
brought up the enclosed paper, which it is presumed
relates to the object of the petition; but this paper,
it will appear from the memorandum accompanying
it, was placed in that office prior to the reference of
the petition.

Private Correspondence 6i

The Auditor of the Treasury is of opinion, though
his recollection is suppositive, that the claim had
relation to the services of John Hughes as forage
master. Two objections opposed its admission: (i)
the not being presented in time; the name of
John Hughes, in the capacity in which he claimed,
not appearing upon any return in the Treasury.

If these be the circumstances, I should be of opin-
ion that it would not be advisable by a special legis-
lative interposition to except the case out of the
operation of the acts of limitation.

The second order of the Senate on the subject of
this petition leads to the following reflections :

Does this hitherto unusual proceeding (in a case
of no public and no peculiar private importance)
imply a supposition that there has been undue delay
or negligence on the part of the Secretary of the
Treasury ?

If it does, the supposition is unmerited; not merely
from the circumstances of the paper, which have
been stated, but from the known situation of the
officer. The occupations necessarily and perman-
ently incident to the office are at least sufficient fully
to occupy the time and faculties of one man. The
burden is seriously increased by the numerous pri-
vate cases, remnants of the late war, which every
session are objects of particular reference by the two
Houses of Congress. These accumulated occupa-
tions again have been interrupted in their due course
by unexpected, desultory, and distressing calls for
lengthy and complicated statements, sometimes with
a view to general information, sometimes for the

62 Alexander Hamilton

explanation of points which certain leading facts, wit-
nessed by the provisions of the laws and by informa-
tion previously communicated might have explained
without those statements, or which were of a nature
that did not seem to have demanded a laborious,
critical, and suspicious investigation, unless the
officer was understood to have forfeited his title
to a reasonable and common degree of confidence.
Added to these things, it is known that the affairs of
the country in its external relations have for some
time past been so circumstanced as unavoidably
to have thrown additional avocations on all the
branches of the Executive Department, and that a
late peculiar calamity in the city of Philadelphia has
had consequences that cannot have failed to derange
more or less the course of public business.

In such a situation, was it not the duty of the
officer to postpone matters of mere individual con-
cern to topics of public and general concern, to the
preservation of the essential order of the department
committed to his care? Or, is it extraordinary that
in relation to cases of the first description there
should have been a considerable degree of procrasti-
nation? Might not an officer who is conscious that
public observation and opinion, whatever deficien-
cies they may impute to him, will not rank among
them want of attention and industry, have hoped
to escape censure, expressed or implied, on that
score ?

I will only add that the consciousness of devoting
myself to the public service to the utmost extent of
my faculties and to the injury of my health, is a

Private Correspondence 63

tranquillizing consolation of which I cannot be de-
prived by any supposition to the contrary.

With perfect respect, etc. ' »*^'fl'*>'

—————— i < * .'^

TO WASHINGTON i tV'

March 8, 1794.

The present situation of the United States is un-
doubtedly critical, and demands measures vigorous,
though prudent. We ought to be in a respectable
military posture, because war may come upon us,
whether we choose it or not; and because, to be in a
condition to defend ourselves, and annoy any who
may attack us, will be the best method of securing
our peace. If it is known that our principal mari-
time points are out of the reach of any but formal
serious operations, and that the government has an
efficient active force in its disposal for defence or
offence on an emergency, there will be much less
temptation to attack us, and much more hesitation
to provoke us.

It seems then advisable —

1. To fortify the principal ports in the several
States (say one in each State), so as to be able to
resist a merely maritime attack, or any thing but a
regular siege.

2. To raise 20,000 auxiliary troops, upon a plan
something like the following, viz. :

To be divided into ten regiments.

'Reprinted from American State Papers, "Claims," p. 77. This
letter has also been reprinted in Adams's Life of Gallatin, p. 116, It is
a very interesting and somewhat amusing document, and it may be
doubted if any other Secretary of the Treasury ever dared to lecture
the Senate in this way.

64 Alexander Hamilton

Each regiment to consist of two battalions, and of
the following officers and men:

I colonel, 2 majors, lo captains, 20 lieutenants, 2
lieutenants and adjutants, 2 sergeant-majors, 40
sergeants, 4 musicians, and 1,000 rank and file.

These troops to be engaged upon the following
terms:

To be enlisted for two years ; but upon condition,
that if a war should break out with any European
power, they shall be obliged to serve four years from
the commencement of such war, upon the same terms
as the troops of the establishment.

To receive as a bounty, clothes with 1 2 dollars per
man.

To be under an obligation to meet forty days in
the year, and thirty of these days to encamp. When
assembled, to be paid, officers and men, as the troops
of the establishment, and to have the same subsis-
tence and rations. To be furnished with arms and
accoutrements by the United States, to be surren-
dered at the expiration of their term of service.

The officers in time of war to rank and rise with the
officers of the military establishment. The arrange-
ment to cease, ipso facto, at the expiration of a cer-
tain term (about two years).

The expense of these operations would be,

For the fortifications, $150,000

For the auxiliary troops, per annum 350,000

$500,000

In addition to this, the Legislature ought to vest
the President of the United States with the power

Private Correspondence 65

to lay an embargo, partial or general, and to arrest
the exportation of commodities, partially or gener-
ally.

It may also deserve consideration whether the
Executive ought not to take measures to form some
concert of the neutral powers for common defence.

Mr. Hamilton presents his respects to the Presi-
dent— submits to him some reveries which have oc-
cupied his imagination. It may be interesting for
the President to consider whether some such plan is
not demanded by the conjunction of affairs; and if
so, whether there ought not to be some Executive
impulse. Many persons look to the President for
the suggestion of measures corresponding with the
exigency of affairs. As far as this idea may be
founded, many important and delicate ideas are in-
volved in the consideration.

The pains taken to preserve peace, include a pro-
portional responsibility that equal pains be taken
to be prepared for war.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, May 27, 1794.

Sir: - ^

I some time since communicated my intention to

withdraw from the office I hold, towards the close of

the present session.

This I should now put in execution, but for the

events which have lately accumulated, of a nature

to render the prospects of the continuance of our

peace in a considerable degree precarious. I do not

perceive that I could voluntarily quit my post at

VOL. X. — 5.

66 Alexander Hamilton

such a juncture consistently with considerations
either of duty or character; and therefore I find
myself reluctantly obliged to defer the offer of my
resignation.

But if any circumstances should have taken place
in consequence of the intimation of an intention to
resign, or should otherwise exist, which serve to
render my continuance in ofhce in any degree incon-
venient or ineligible, I beg leave to assure you, sir, I
should yield to them with all the readiness naturally
inspired by an impatient desire to relinquish a situa-
tion opposed by the strongest personal and family
relations, and in which even a momentary stay could
only be produced by a sense of duty or reputation.

TO JAY

Philadelphia, June 4, 1794.

My Dear Sir:

The session of Congress is about to close better
than I expected. All mischievous measures have
been prevented, and several good ones have been
established. Among these, additional provisions of
revenue and some of force, are not the least im-
portant.

But as more immediately connected with the ob-
jects of your mission, you will learn with satisfaction,
that the bill which had passed the Senate before you
left this, for punishing and preventing practices con-
trary to neutrality, has become a law with only one
material alteration, the rejection of the clause which
forbids the selling of prizes. I now consider the
Executive and the Judiciary, as armed with ade-

Private Correspondence 67

quate means for repressing the fitting out of priva-
teers, the taking of commissions, or enlisting in
foreign service, the unauthorized imdertaking of
mihtary expeditions, etc.

At Charleston some considerable irregularities have
lately happened. But means have been taken, and
are in train, v^hich will no doubt arrest their pro-
gress, and correct the evil.

I believe it would be useful for you to collect and
communicate exact information with regard to the
usage of Europe as to permitting the sale of prizes in
neutral countries. If this should be clearly against
the toleration of the practice, the Executive might
still, perhaps, disembarrass itself.

Men's minds have gotten over the irritation by
which they were some time since possessed, and if
Great Britain is disposed to justice, peace, and con-
ciliation, the two countries may still arrive at a bet-
ter imderstanding than has for some time subsisted
between them. Is there not a crisis which she ought
not to suffer to pass, without laying a solid founda-
tion for future harmony? I think there is.

Adieu, my dear sir: not knowing how far any
press of business on the Department of State might
delay its communications, I thought a few hasty
lines would not be unacceptable.

TO WASHINGTON

Treasury Department, Jtdy 13, 1794.

I have considered the two subjects upon which you
desire my opinion, as maturely as my situation has
permitted.

68 Alexander Hamilton

With regard to the proceedings in Kentucky, I
perceive nothing that can, with propriety or utility,
be done, unless the attorney-general, on full and
careful examination, should be of opinion that they
furnish indictable matter, in which case I should
think it very material that prosecutions against
the ostensible and leading characters should be
instituted.

With regard to the affair in Georgia, the following
course presents itself as eligible :

1. To urge the Governor of Georgia to employ,
efficaciously, all the means in his power (that of mili-
tary coercion, if necessary, excepted) to prevent the
establishment supposed to be meditated, referring
him to the late act of Congress, and informing him
that the expense will be borne by the United States.
The commanding officer of the troops of the United
States to be directed to co-operate.

2. To apprise the Creek nation of the information
which has been received, and to assure them that the
United States will co-operate with them to prevent
the intrusion in the first instance, and afterwards to
dispossess the intruders. It may, perhaps, be made a
consideration for urging them to run the line of the
last treaty.

3. To mention the matter informally to the Span-
ish commissioners, expressing the disapprobation of
the government, and its intention to exert all the
measures in its power to frustrate the enterprise.

Private Correspondence 69

TO RUFUS KING

Philadelphia, Sept. 17, 1794.

When you recollect that I have two departments
on my shoulders, and when I tell you that I have
been out of health in the bargain, you will perhaps
admit an excuse for my not answering sooner your
letter some time since received.

Mr. Jay has given nothing conclusive. His letters
to the 26th of June barely gave the idea that ap-
pearances were not unfavorable. The last letter, I
forget the date, but it came by the last arrival at
New York, refers to letters which were not received,
but which are supposed to have been confided to the
Portuguese Minister. This letter is couched in the
same cautious terms, considers the scale as capable
of turning either way, and advises not to relax in
military preparation. The ministry, however, have
certainly continued to countenance shipments to
this country, and very large ones were making. It is
a strange, mysterious business. The change in ad-
ministration had made some pause in the negotia-
tion.

Nothing from the Western country authorizes an
expectation of a pacific termination of that business.
All the militia are going forward as fast as they can
be got forward. Virginia, all below the mountains,
is zealous; beyond, neutral in conduct and divided
in affection. Jersey is also zealous; so are the
eastern shore of Maryland and the town of Balti-
more. Thence to Frederictown a pretty good temper
prevails; beyond that a very insurgent spirit and
some insurrection. In Philadelphia an excellent and

^o Alexander Hamilton

productive zeal, embracing all parties, has been
kindled. A good spirit will generally pervade the old
counties. But there is much bad leaven in the new
counties this side of as well as beyond the mountains
— Cumberland, Franklin, Mifflin, and even North-
umberland.

Governor Lee is at the head of the Virginia militia,
and will command if the President does not go out;
he is all zeal. Governor Howell, with equal zeal,
was to march from Trenton to-day with the van of
the Jersey militia, consisting of 500 horse. Mifflin,
who at first showed some untoward symptoms, ap-
pears now to be exerting himself in earnest and with
great effect, and goes at the head of his militia.

The President will be governed by circumstances.
If the thing puts on an appearance of magnitude, he
goes; if not, he stays. There is a pro and a con in
the case. If permitted, I shall at any rate go.

TO RUFUS KING

September 22, 1794.

I thank you, my dear sir, for your letter of the
A few days previously I wrote you pretty

fully. I hope my letter got to hand.

The inclosed paper gives you the substance of our
European intelligence under the Philadelphia head.

The returns from the western counties of this
State are just come to hand. They show a valuable
division, ranging on the side of the laws the most in-
fluential men, and a respectable body of others —
but leaving a great number still uncomplying and

Private Correspondence 71

violent, so as to afford no appearance of submission
to the laws without the application of force. It will
give you pleasure to learn that there is every pro-
spect of our being able to apply this effectually, and
of the issue being favorable to the authority of the
laws. It will occasion a large bill of costs, but what
is that compared with the object? Adieu.

TO GEORGE MATTHEWS, GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA

War Department, Sept. 25, 1794.

Sir:

In the absence of the Secretary of War, I have the
honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letters to
his department of the 5th, 19th, and 30th of August,
and to reply to such parts as are the most pressing,
referring the others to the return of that officer.

Among the posts which have been established,
that of Doctor's Town creates a question, in conse-
quence of Lieutenant Colonel Gaither's information
that it is within the Indian boundary.

This is a matter which ought to be unequivocally
ascertained, and if found to be within the Indian
line, or if it be even doubtful whether that be the
case, the post must be immediately removed. It is
deemed essential that no encroachment should take
place. And your Excellency is relied upon for a
strict and scrupulous adherence to this principle.

Under the circumstances which led to it, the
President has thought proper to authorize the
adoption by the United States of the new troop
ordered by you into service, from the time of its

72 Alexander Hamilton

commencement, and to continue until the first of
November ensuing, when it is to be disbanded.

And you are at liberty, if the state of things shall
render it, in your judgment essential, to substitute
at that time a company of infantry for the same
purpose. Corps of horse, upon the terms on which
that in question is engaged, are expensive in the
extreme, and in a much greater proportion, com-
pared with infantry, than any supposable superior-
ity of usefulness can justify. Indeed, it would
require a treasury much better supplied than that of
the United States to support the expense of a multi-
plication or extension of such corps. Consequently,
that multiplication or extension would tend to de-
feat its own object, for our instruments of defence,
to be durable, must be relative to our means of sup-
porting them. And when we find, as in the instance
of the insurrection now existing in the western parts
of Pennsylvania, that those for whose immediate
benefit the objects of military expenditure occur
are among the first to resist, even to violence, the
necessary means of defraying them, it is easy to
appreciate the perplexing dilemma to which the
government is reduced, between the duty and the
means of affording protection, and the necessity,
consequently, of economy in the modes of effecting it.

Your Excellency is pleased to express your con-
cern at being so repeatedly compelled to solicit pro-
tection for the State of Georgia.

This is not understood as implying any want of
due disposition on the part of the Executive of this
government to afford all the protection which is

Private Correspondence 73

within the compass of the means placed within its
power, having regard to all the objects which, along
a very extended frontier, equally demand attention.
It is not doubted that you render justice, in this re-
spect, to the views of the Executive.

But the observation you have made in this par-
ticular naturally leads to another, which calls for
the most serious attention of the governments of the
States exposed to Indian depredations. It is this,
that there is a reciprocal duty in the case. The ob-
ligation upon the United States to afford adequate
protection to the inhabitants of the frontiers is no
doubt of the highest and most sacred kind. But
there is a duty no less strong upon those inhabitants
to avoid giving occasion to hostilities by an irreg-
ular and improper conduct, and upon the local gov-
ernments sincerely and effectually to punish and
repress instances of such conduct, and the spirit
which produces them. If these inhabitants can
with impunity thwart all the measures of the United
States for restoring or preserving peace, if they can
with impunity commit depredations and outrages
upon the Indians, and that in violation of the faith
of the United States, pledged not only in their gen-
eral treaties, but even in the special (and among all
nations peculiarly sacred) case of a safe conduct, as
in the instance of the attack upon the Indians while
encamped within our protection, on the loth of May
last, can it be surprising if such circumstances
should abate the alacrity of the national councils to
encounter those heavy expenses which the protec-
tion of the frontiers occasions, and the readiness

74 Alexander Hamilton

of the citizens of the United States distant from the
scenes of danger to acquiesce in the burdens they
produce? It is not meant by these remarks to
diminish the force of the excuse within due limits
which is drawn from the conduct of the Indians
towards the frontier inhabitants. It cannot be
denied that frequent and great provocations to a
spirit of animosity and revenge are given by them,
but a candid and impartial survey of the events
which have from time to time occurred can leave no
doubt that injuries and provocations have been too
far mutual, that there is much to blame in the con-
duct of the frontier inhabitants, as well as in that of
the Indians. And the result of a full examination
must be that, unless means to restrain by punishing
the violences which those inhabitants are in the
habit of perpetrating against the Indians can be put
in execution, all endeavors to preserve peace with
them must be forever frustrated.

An example worthy of imitation in its spirit
has lately been given by the surrender to Governor
Blount of some Indians who lately committed a
murder upon one John Ish, an inhabitant of the
southwestern territory, and who have been tried and
executed. The record of such an example of justice
and fair dealing will give occasion to us to blush, if
we can cite no instance of reciprocity amidst the
numerous occasions which are given for the exercise
of it.

These reflections, your Excellency may be as-
sured, are merely designed to present to consider-
ation some very important truths — truths a due

Private Correspondence 75

attention to which is of the most serious concern to
those States which have an exposed frontier. To
give full weight to their claims upon the exertions of
the Union to afford the requisite protection, it is of
great moment to satisfy the United States that the
necessity for them has not been created or pro-
moted by a culpable temper, not sufficiently re-
strained among those to whom the protection is
immediately to be extended.

The President learns with great pleasure the meas-
ures your Excellency had begun and was about to
pursue for the removal of the settlers under General
Clarke. It is impossible to conceive a settlement
more unjustifiable in its pretexts, or more dangerous
in its principle than that which he is attempting. It
is not only a high-handed usurpation of the rights
of the general and State governments, and a most
unwarrantable encroachment upon those of the In-
dians, but proceeding upon the idea of a separate
and independent government, to be erected on a
military basis, it is essentially hostile to our repub-
lican systems of government, and is pregnant with
incalculable mischiefs. It deeply concerns the great
interests of the country that such an establishment
should not be permitted to take root, and that the
example should be checked by adequate punish-
ment, in doing which no time is to be lost, for such
is the nature of the establishment that it may be
expected rapidly to attain to a formidable magni-
tude, involving great expense and trouble to sub-
vert it.

The President therefore depends absolutely upon

76 Alexander Hamilton

measures equally prompt and efficacious to put an
end to it.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT '

Treasury Department, Sept. 29, 1794.

Sir:

Being about to leave the seat of government for
a few weeks, to accompany the army in its march
against the western insurgents of Pennsylvania, I
commit to you during my absence the management
of those matters which are reserved to my superin-
tendence, under the constitution and regulations of
the department, especially the receipts and expendi-
tures of money, and I rely upon your diligence and
zeal that nothing will suffer during my absence.
With regard to remissions and mitigations of penal-
ties and forfeitures, it will be best to avoid acting in
any case in which particular inconvenience will not
arise from delay, as there is not time to explain the
principles which have governed in the past, and the
course of policy may, without such explanation, be
innovated upon so as to occasion something like in-
consistency. But in urgent cases you will act, con-
sulting the most recent precedents in similar cases.
To preserve the usual forms, I have signed and left
in my office a large number of blank warrants of the
different kinds which issue. Enclosed is a letter to
the President and Directors of the Bank of New
York. If they agree to loan you will conclude it.
You will find in the office a power from the President

* Comptroller of the Treasury.

Private Correspondence ^^

for the purpose. It will be regular in any contract
which may be made to pursue the terms of the
power as to parties/

TO RUFUS KING

Jones' Mill, Oct. 30, 1794.

Dear Sir:

Our light corps, the Jersey infantry, and a brigade
of cavalry, are about eight and a half miles in front,
beyond all the mountains. This division, which has
been delayed by a somewhat worse route and the
incumbrance of the public stores, will be at the same
place this evening. The left wing is at a corre-
sponding point. All is essentially well; no appear-
ance of opposition. It is of great consequence that
a law should, if possible, be expedited through Con-
gress for raising 500 infantry and 100 horse, to be
stationed in the disaffected country. Without this,
the expense incurred will be essentially fruitless.

A law regulating a peace process of outlawry is
also urgent; for the best objects of punishment will
fly, and they ought to be compelled by outlawry
to abandon their property, homes, and the United
States. This business must not be skinned over.
The political putrefaction of Pennsylvania is greater
than I had any idea of. Without rigor everywhere,
our tranquillity is likely to be of very short dura-
tion, and the next storm will be infinitely worse
than the present one.

I Reprinted from Administrations of Washington and Adams, i., 155.

78 Alexander Hamilton

TO A FRIEND IN EUROPE

1794.

My own hope of making a short excursion to
Europe the ensuing spring increases. Believe me, I
am heartily tired of my situation, and wait only the
opportunity of quitting it with honor and without
decisive prejudice to the public affairs. This winter,
I trust, will wind up my plans so as to secure my
reputation. The present appearance is that the de-
pending elections will prove favorable to the good
cause and obviate anxiety for the future. In this
event my present determination is to resign my po-
litical family and set seriously about the care of my
private family. Previous to this I will visit Europe.
There I shall have the happiness of meeting you once
more. But will not a few months afterwards give
us the pang of a final separation? Let us hope the
best. Adieu.'

TO THOMAS FITZSIMMONS

Philadelphia, Nov. 27, 1794.

Dear Sir:

Seeing the debates on the subject of Democratic
Societies, I called at your house to state some facts.

It is true that the opposition to the excise laws
began from causes foreign to Democratic Societies,
but it is well ascertained by proof in the course of

' Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vi., 193, where it has
neither address nor date. This letter, however, must have been
written in the autumn of 1794, as the reference to the pending elections
and the writer's resignation in the following winter shows.

Private Correspondence 79

judiciary investigations that the insurrection imme-
diately is to be essentially attributed to one of those
societies sometimes called the Mingo-Creek Society,
sometimes the Democratic Society. An early and
active member of it commanded the first attack
at Neville's House; another active member of that
Society, McFarlane, the second attack. Benjamin
Parkinson, the president, and several other members
of it seemed to have directed the second attack as a
committee. This may be asserted as founded upon
good proof and information recently received, though
it would not be consistent with decorum to name
me. Make what use you please of this, and com-
municate it to other friends.'

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, Dec. i, 1794.

Sir:

I have the honor to inform you that I have fixed
upon the last of January next as the day for the
resignation of my office of Secretary of the Treasury.
I make the communication now that there may be
time to mature such an arrangement as shall appear
to you proper to meet the vacancy when it occurs.

TO WASHINGTON , j->P^ ■'

December 2, 1794.

The Secretary of the Treasury has the honor re-
spectfully to make the following representation to the

^ Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vi., 123.

8o Alexander Hamilton

President of the United States, in order that he may
determine on the expediency of laying the subject of
it before Congress.

The procuring of military supplies generally is,
with great propriety, vested by law in the Depart-
ment of the Treasury. That department, from situ-
ation, may be expected to feel a more habitual
solicitude for economy than any other, and to pos-
sess more means of information respecting the best
modes of obtaining supplies.

It is, however, important that the particular ar-
rangement should be such as to enable the depart-
ment to execute the trust in the best manner. This
branch of business forms a very considerable one of
the public expenditure. Including supplies for the
navy, it is so extensive as, to be well executed, would
occupy the whole time and attention of one person,
possessing the requisite qualifications. This, with
the growth of the country, must be every year more
and more the case. It cannot, therefore, be con-
ducted in detail by the head of the department, or
by any existing officer of it, now charged with other
duties, and without being less well executed than
it ought to be, or interfering with other essential
duties, or without a portion of both these incon-
veniences, to the material detriment of the public
service. Experience has already verified the posi-
tion.

It must then, of necessity, either be confided to a
special agent, employed by the head of the depart-
ment, or to a new officer of the department, to be
constituted by law, and to act under the discretion

Private Correspondence 8i

and superintendence of that head. The last mode is
preferable to the first, for obvious reasons.

Whenever an object of public business is likely to
be permanent, it is more fit that it should be trans-
acted by an officer of the government, regularly
constituted, than by the agent of a department,
specially intrusted.

The officer can be placed, by law, under more
effectual checks. In the present case, that idea is
particularly important. The person intrusted ought
to be prohibited, under penalties, from all dealing,
on his own account, in the objects of supply.

The duration and emoluments of mere agency
being precarious, a well-qualified man, disposed to
make the necessary sacrifices of other pursuits, and
to devote himself exclusively to the business, could
with much greater difficulty, if at all, be found.

The compensation to such an officer ought, it is
conceived, to weigh nothing as an objection. Inde-
pendent of the equivalent expense, arising from the
necessity of employing and compensating an agent,
it is morally certain that the close, constant, un-
divided attention of a person, charged exclusively
with this object, and in condition, for that reason,
to make the minute as well as extensive inquiries
and investigations which are often requisite, would
produce savings to the United States with which the
salary of the officer could bear no comparison. It
is equally evident that it would contribute greatly
to ptmctuality, despatch, and efficiency in procuring
the supplies.

VOL. X. — 6.

82 Alexander Hamilton

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, Jan. 26, 1795.

Sir:

Mr. Wolcott has just informed me that the Secre-
tary of State had called upon him as by your direc-
tion, to confer on the subject of a person to be
appointed Comptroller, in the event of his appoint-
ment as Secretary of the Treasury; and intimated
that you had concluded to take some gentleman from
the South ; that Mr. Habersham (brother of the col-
lector of Savannah) was more particularly in your
eye, and that if he or I had any different view of the
subject, it was your wish that it might be speedily
communicated, as you were desirous of coming to a
conclusion.

This I accordingly feel it my duty to do.

It is of the greatest importance to the proper con-
ducting the business of the Treasury Department
that the Comptroller should be a man of the follow-
ing description : of strong sense, of clear discernment,
sound judgment, indefatigable industry, firmness,
and prompt decision of temper; possessing a com-
prehensive knowledge of accounts, and of course
good principles.

As well from the nature of the office as from the
particular situation of the department, as it will
stand at the moment of my resignation, it is of pe-
culiar consequence that there should be no mistake
in the selection of the proper character for Comp-
troller. It will be easy for the department to run
into disorder if such a mistake should happen.

Private Correspondence 83

From all the light I have been able to obtain on
the subject, though it results in a favorable impres-
sion of Mr. Habersham generally, yet it leaves a con-
siderable doubt on my mind that he would be an
eligible appointment as Comptroller of the Treasury.
I cannot, therefore, add my opinion to the rest of
the opinions which may favor it.

There is one gentleman South, whom I have be-
fore mentioned, of whose fitness in every respect,
from trial of him in different public situations, it
appears to me impossible to entertain a doubt — I
mean Colonel Edward Carrington. I will pledge my
reputation to the President for his proving, if ap-
pointed, an excellent Comptroller, and a valuable
acquisition to the department.

I have fully reflected on the objection which
from the distributive geographical rule, is supposed
to be against him — and I beg leave to submit, as my
opinion, that it ought not to be conclusive. This
rule is doubtless a good one; but if carried so far as
to hazard the appointment of unqualified persons to
offices of material importance to the general admin-
istration of the government, it will become a bad
one, sacrificing primary to secondary considerations.

I have offered my opinion with the less reserve
because I ought to be explicit in a case not only of
much moment to the public service, but when the
arrangements which may be made, may, naturally
from situation, be presumed to have had the con-
currence of my opinion, and where, therefore, my
reputation is more particularly concerned.

84 Alexander Hamilton

TO WILLINK, VAN STAPHORST, & HUBBARD '

Treasury Department, Jan. 31, 1795.

Gentlemen:

It is probable that before this reaches you, you
will have heard of my determination to resign my
office as Secretary of the Treasury as on this day.
The event will accordingly take place.

I could not permit myself to renoimce my official
situation without placing among my last acts the
expression of the high sense I continue to entertain
of the fidelity and ability with which you have imi-
formly served the United States. This testimony is
due to you, and it is with great pleasure I give it.

The gentleman whom the President has deter-
mined to nominate as my successor, and who will be
no doubt appointed, is Oliver Wolcott, Esquire, the
present Comptroller of the Treasury. I do him no
more than justice by assuring you that he is a gen-
tleman of undoubted intelligence, probity, and good
principles with regard to public credit. The con-
fidence of yourself and your cotmtrymen may be
safely reposed in him.

to WASHINGTON

Treasury Department, Jan. 31, 1795.

Sir:

Agreeably to the intimation heretofore given, I
have the honor now to tender you my resignation
of the office of Secretary of the Treasury, and to be

' The Dutch bankers who had charge of our financial negotiations in
Holland.

Private Correspondence 85

with sincere respect and affectionate attachment,
sir, etc.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON

Sunday, Feb. i, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I received the enclosed letter, with the document
therein, last night.

For reasons which will appear obvious, I make you
acquainted with the contents of them — being yours,

G. Washington.

Endorsement on this letter by A, H,

This covered a letter from Mr. Coxe, of the 31st
January,' 1795, containing a charge against Mr.
Wolcott, for my having committed to him, and
he having exercised, the duties of Secretary of the
Treasury in my absence on the Western expedition.

A. H.

WASHINGTON TO HAMILTON

Philadelphia, Feb. 2, 1795.

Dear Sir:

After so long an experience of your public services, I
am naturally led, at this moment of your departure from
office — which it has always been my wish to prevent —
to review them.

In every relation which you have borne to me I have
found that my confidence in your talents, exertions, and
integrity, has been well placed.

' This letter ciiriously shows the hostility which pursued Hamilton
even when leaving office. The writer was Tench Coxe, who was an
officer in the Department. See following letter of Feb. 12, to Wash-
ington.

86 Alexander Hamilton

I the more freely render this testimony of my ap-
probation, because I speak from opportunities of in-
formation which cannot deceive me, and which furnish
satisfactory proof of your title to pubHc regard.

My most earnest wishes for your happiness will attend
you in your retirement, and you may assure yourself of
the sincere esteem, regard, and friendship of, etc.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, Feb. 3, 1795.

Sir:

My partictilar acknowledgments are due for your
very kind letter of yesterday. As often as I may
recall the vexations I have endured, your approba-
tion will be a great and precious consolation.

It was not without a struggle that I yielded to the
very urgent motives which impelled me to relin-
quish a station in which I could hope to be in any
degree instrumental in promoting the success of
an administration under your direction; a struggle
which would have been far greater had I supposed
that the prospect of future usefulness was propor-
tioned to the sacrifices to be made.

Whatsoever may be my destination hereafter, I
entreat you to be persuaded (not the less for my
having been sparing in professions) that I shall never
cease to render a just tribute to those eminent and
excellent qualities which have been already produc-
tive of so many blessings to your country, that you
will always have my fervent wishes for your public
and personal felicity, and that it will be my pride to
cultivate a continuance of that esteem, regard, and

Private Correspondence ?>y

friendship of which you do me the honor to assure
me. With true respect and affectionate attach-
ment, etc.

TO WASHINGTON
(Private.)

Philadelphia, Feb. 12, 1795.

Sir:

I have maturely reflected on the subject of the
within papers. I do not hesita,te to give it as my
opinion that, if it were not for very peculiar personal
circumstances, the fittest arrangement, upon the
whole, would be to consign the temporary execution
of the comptroller's office to the commissioner of
the revenue. But I could not advise this, because
it could not fail, for strong reasons, to be unpleasant
to Mr. Wolcott, and because there is real danger
that Mr. Coxe would first perplex and embarrass,
and afterward misrepresent and calumniate.

The treasurer would by no means answer, because,
as the keeper of the money, it is particularly essential
that all the checks upon him should be maintained
in full vigor, and the comptroller is the officer who,
in the last resort, settles his accounts, as well as
concurs, in the first instance, in authorizing, by the
warrants which are issued by the secretary, and
countersigned by the comptroller, the payments
and receipts of the treasurer.

The register is also one of the principal checks of
the department : first, upon the secretary and comp-
troller, whose warrants he must register and sign be-
fore they can take effect; and secondly, upon the

SB Alexander Hamilton

settlements of the comptroller and auditor, by re-
cording their acts, and entering them upon the books
to the proper accounts.

Of any of the officers of the department, except
the commissioner of the revenue, the business can be
best managed through the auditor, consistently with
the preservation of the most material checks, with
the restriction I mentioned this morning, of his not
deciding, as comptroller, upon any account he may
have settled as auditor. The temporary suspension
of the final conclusion of the accounts — all the pre-
vious examinations going on, cannot be attended
with any serious inconvenience. If the laws admit
of it (which I doubt, as they now stand), the ap-
pointment of the auditor's first clerk to act as the
auditor in his stead will be a conveniency. I do not
think this would be liable to the same objections as
the appointing a clerk to act as comptroller, whose
office imports the second trust in the department.
In one sense, to appoint the auditor to act as comp-
troller, would comport best with the spirit of the
constitution of the department. This is, that the
officer who is to settle the accounts by countersigning
the warrants for receipts and payments, shall have
an opportunity to observe this conformity with the
course of business as it appears in the accounts, and
shall have notice in the first instance of all payments
and receipts, in order to the bringing all persons to
account for public moneys. This reason operates
to make the auditor, who is the coadjutor of the
comptroller in settlements, his most fit substitute in
this particular view.

Private Correspondence 89

On the whole, I am of opinion that it is most ad-
visable to appoint the auditor.'

A clerk, for reasons already mutually adverted to,
does not appear to be expedient. I have the honor
to be, etc.

P. S. — The restriction above suggested, for greater
caution, had best be in writing in a letter to the
Secretary of the Treasury.

The instrument appears to me to be in proper
form.

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

Bristol, Feb. i8, 1795.

My Dear Sedgwick:

Every moment's reflection increases my chagrin
and disgust at the failure of the propositions con-
cerning the unsubscribed debt. I am tortured by
the idea that the country should be so completely
and unnecessarily dishonored. A day of reckoning
must come. I pray you let the yeas and nays sepa-
rate the wheat from the chaff. I may otherwise have
to feel the distress of wounding a friend by a shaft
levelled at an enemy. The case is an extreme one.
Managements are every way improper.

TO RUFUS KING

Kingston, Feb. 21, 1795.

My Dear King:

The unnecessary and capricious and abominable
assassination of the national honor by the rejection

' Richard Harrison.

90 Alexander Hamilton

of the propositions respecting the unsubscribed debt
in the House of Representatives haunts me every
step I take, and afflicts me more than I can express.
To see the character of the government and the
country so sported with — exposed to so indelible a
, blot — puts my heart to the torture. Am I, then,
1 ■ more of an American than those who drew their first
breath on American ground ? Or what is it that thus
torments me at a circumstance so calmly viewed by
almost everybody else? Am I a fool — a romantic
Quixote — or is there a constitutional defect in the
American mind? Were it not for yourself and a
few others, I could adopt the reveries of De Paux '
as substantial truths, and could say with him that
there is some thing in our climate which belittles
every animal, human or brute.

I conjure you, my friend, make a vigorous stand
for the honor of your country! Rouse all the ener-
gies of your mind, and measure swords in the Senate
with the great slayer of public faith — the hackneyed
veteran in the violation of public engagements.
Prevent him if possible from triumphing a second
time over the prostrate credit and injured interests
of his country.^ Unmask his false and horrid hypo-
thesis. Display the immense difference between an
able statesman and the man of subtleties. Root out
the distempered and noisome weed which is at-

* The Abbe de Paux, or Pauw, a distinguished scholar, bom in
Amsterdam. The work referred to is his Recherches Philosophiques sur
les Americains. He wrote similar works on the Chinese, Egyptians,
Greeks, and ancient Germans.

* Witness the forty for one scheme — a most unskilful measure, to
say the best of it.

Private Correspondence 91

tempted to be planted in our political garden, to
choke and wither in its infancy the fair plant of
public credit.

I disclose to you without reserve the state of my
mind. It is discontented and gloomy in the ex-
treme. I consider the cause of good government as
having been put to an issue and the verdict ren-
dered against it.

Introduce, I pray you, into the Senate, when the
bill comes up, the clause which has been rejected,
freed from embarrassment by the bills of credit,
bearing interest on the nominal value. Press its
adoption in this, the most unexceptionable shape,
and let the yeas and nays witness the result.

Among the other reasons for this is my wish that
the true friends of public credit may be distinguished
from its enemies. The question is too great a one
not to undergo a thorough examination before the
community. It would pain me not to be able to
distinguish. Adieu. God bless you!

P. S. — Do me the favor to revise carefully the
course of the bill respecting the unsubscribed debt
and let me know the particulars. I wish to be
able to judge more particularly of the under -plot I
suspect.

TO RUFUS KING

New York, Feb. 26, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I have received your letter with the printed bills.
The new clause is an additional bad feature, yet 't is

m

92 Alexander Hamilton

better the thing should pass as it is than not at all.
Every thing should be gained that can be.

So it seems that under the present administration
of the department, Hillhouse ' and Goodhue ' are to
be the ministers in the House of Representatives,
and Ellsworth ^ and Strong "^ in the Senate. Fine
work we shall have!

But I swear the nation shall not be dishonored
with impunity.^

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

Albany, April lo, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you a few lines by the last post. I sit
down to fulfil my promise then made.

The fulfilment of our foreign engagements under
the existing circumstances is no doubt a perplexing
task. But I hope it will not be found impracticable
to effect enough to preserve character and credit.

Every thing must be done to this end, though with
considerable sacrifices, provided you do not go so far
as to endanger credit at home. This must at all events
be kept sound, since a shock there will be fatal,
while the extraordinary situation of the times will
furnish an apology for any omissions which may

^ James Hillhouse, of Connecticut.

2 Benjamin Goodhue, of Massachusetts.

3 Oliver Ellsworth, of Connecticut.

4 Caleb Strong, of Massachusetts.

5 All the persons mentioned in this letter were staunch Federalists
and warm friends of Hamilton. He wrote evidently in great but
momentary irritation on account of the course of Congress as to the
unsubscribed debt.

Private Correspondence 93

happen abroad; and, by eventual indemnification,
the v^ounds v^hich may be given to foreign credit
may be healed. The opinion which some entertain
is altogether a false one — that it is more important
to miaintain our credit abroad than at home. The
latter is far the most important nursery of resources,
and, consequently, far the most important to be in-
violably maintained. A failure here would be the
more material, because it would argue want of means,
and could not shelter itself under the plea of tem-
porary embarrassments from external causes, and be-
cause it would derange our whole internal economy.

But, except the compromitting our whole domes-
tic credit, nothing must be left imdone to preserve
external credit.

I do not doubt that the means which have been
taken down to the first of June, inclusively, will be
deemed adequate, considering the circumstances.
They may, however, fail of the effect intended. But
I do not apprehend any material evil from the delay
of reimbursing the instalment of principal, if the in-
terest is but punctually and honestly paid. I hope
our commissioners, with the public and their own
resources, will effect this, till further provision can
be brought into action.

As to sending specie from this country, 't is out
of the question. 'T would derange every thing, and
our commissioners ought to be frankly told that it
is impracticable, owing to the interruption by the war
of some of the usual channels through which we have
derived our supplies of specie.

But commodities may be remitted on the public

94 Alexander Hamilton

account, and this (the resource of stock failing)
must, for aught I see, be done, unless what I shall
now mention can be accomplished, with the judg-
ment of our commissioners in its favor, to wit:

Let them enter into an arrangement with the con-
stituted authorities of Holland or France (preferring
the former) to receive at Amsterdam the sums neces-
sary for paying those which we shall owe, giving
drafts upon our treasury for equivalent sums. This
will enable the French or Dutch government to ob-
tain supplies here, which they will want.

But may they for this purpose receive and pay
assignats? Not so, if assignats are not the general
currency of the country; but if they are, there may
be no choice. Gold and silver may not then be
obtainable at all. Perhaps the commissioners may
be able to raise funds by the sale of bills upon this
country; otherwise, as many may wish, to remit
from the Netherlands.

Yet our creditors must not be paid without
a reasonable indemnification in depreciated paper.
Consequently our commissioners must be authorized,
if obliged to pay in assignats, to augment the rate,
so as to allow an equivalent.

Accordingly, if the arrangement I have intimated
can be effected, the commissioners may give bills,
-florin for florin, of gold or silver (or a dollar for 2^
florins) ; but if they are obliged to receive assignats,
they ought to secure a premium of exchange equal
to the depreciation.

This transaction ought to be managed under the
superintendence of our minister.

Private Correspondence 95

What I wish you were able immediately to do is
this: To ship without delay commodities sufficient,
together with the moneys certainly in the command
of the commissioners, independent of sales of stock,
to pay interest to September, inclusively, writing
them a letter suggesting the above plan, and au-
thorizing them to act upon it if they approve.

The stock remitted may be ordered to be sold in
England, which will furnish a fund upon which you
can draw, in order to prosecute other methods of
remittance.

At the same time, I think it may be well to take
measures for ascertaining whether some arrange-
ment could not be relied upon for remitting through
England to Amsterdam. I know of no impediment,
even now, to sending bullion (including Spanish and
other foreign gold and silver coin) in American bot-
toms to Amsterdam, but impediments might arise.
Perhaps in this case London might be made an inter-
mediary of remittances to Holland, either by sales
of stock or commodities there.

The commodities to be remitted ought to be such
as to be liable to as little casualty as possible from
war considerations, and they ought to be most
effectually insured, and ought to appear authentic-
ally as those of the United States sent to pay their
debts on their own account and risk. I suspect,
however, the other plan will be found practicable on
satisfactory principles, but no agreement ought to
be for a longer term than a year.

If you are not able to send, immediately, com-
modities for payment of interest to September, it

g6 Alexander Hamilton

may then be of necessity to wait further information,
giving full latitude, if it has not already been given,
to sell stock for payment of interest at any price;
suggesting the possibility of doing some thing
through London, and proposing the plan of the ar-
rangement which has been suggested. All the stock
not salable in Amsterdam ought to be placed in
London, imder due precautions for security, to be
sold there as a fund.

The co-operation of our minister in Holland will
be proper throughout; and pretty large discretions
must be confided.

If a very trusty and a clever fellow could go from
hence, as agent for the treasury, with alternative
instructions according to circumstances, it might be
very useful. I believe William Smith, of South
Carolina, would go and he would be safe and com-
petent. Would not James Watson go? He wotild
also do.

In contemplating a possible course of things, I had
my eye upon the expedient of issuing warrants upon
the treasurer, payable at future periods, from two to
twelve months, in nature of exchequer bills. This
may be a means of providing for the current service
of credit, besides the expedient of loans from the
bank. By being negotiable, they may answer the
purposes of contractors, though articles may there-
by cost some thing more to the public, than on the
plan of anticipated or prompt payment.

I mention this, because I foresee that, from the
embarrassment of foreign events, there may be a
press upon the treasury.

Private Correspondence 97

If any thing further occurs, you shall have it.
Write me as freely as you please.

P. S. — There is one idea v^hich may deserve atten-
tion— a depreciated paper naturally gives to gold
and silver an artificial and exaggerated value. This
may even occasion an undue loss to a debtor who is \
honorable enough to pay in gold and silver, when a |
depreciated paper is the general currency. This is
more than just. But it may be policy in a govern-
ment to submit to it. Yet there may be bounds.
The idea may be brought into the view of our min-
ister and commissioners for this purpose: To sug-
gest, that if such an artificial advancement of gold
and silver takes place, the compensation for de-
preciation may be adjusted upon some equitable
ratio. But a moderate sacrifice, for simplicity of
proceeding, may, in this case, be best.

I send a letter to the Attorney-General which you
will read, seal, and deliver. You will easily divine
my reason for addressing it to him. The President
ought to view this matter as it is, but I do not write
to him, because I do not wish to appear officious.

Have you taken any arrangement at Amsterdam,
to facilitate the change of foreign and domestic debt,
according to the law of last session? The moment is
favorable. Facilities on the spot may promote the
object. Our commissioners and our minister are
worthy of trust.

VOL. X.— 7.

9^ Alexander Hamilton

TO RUFUS KING

April 24, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I return you a certain draft, with a little substi-
tute for the close of it proposed by Mr. J , with

an eye to your suggestion.

Our petition went yesterday by express. It had
more than 3,200 signers, which is within about 300
of the highest poll we ever had in this city on both
sides, at the most controverted election. Nothing
can more clearly demonstrate our unanimity, and I
feel no doubt of equal or greater imanimity through-
out the State.

The meeting-men have not dared to publish the
names of the committee, because it impudently con-
tained a considerable proportion of persons hostile to
its object, several of them actually on our petition.
You see by this their embarrassment and their
weakness.

TO WILLIAM BRADFORD '

May, 1795.

Dear Sir:

Yours of the twenty-first of May, by going to Al-
bany, did not reach me till yesterday. The ex-
pectation of Mr. Adet properly varied the course of
proceeding. I am glad the impression with you
corresponded with mine.

^ William Bradford, of Pennsylvania, at this time Attorney-General
of the United States. He had been a soldier of the Revolution and a
judge and Attorney-General of Pennsylvania. He was a man of ability
and character, and his premature death shortly after the date of this
letter, on August 23, 1795, was deeply regretted.

Private Correspondence 99

If Mr. Randolph showed Fauchet any part of the
instructions to Mr. Jay, I do not much regret that he
manifests displeasure at the withholding of a part.
When shall we cease to consider ourselves as a colony
of France? To assure her minister that the in-
structions to Mr. Jay contained nothing which could
interfere with our engagements to France might,
imder all the circtimstances, have been expedient;
but to communicate specifically any part of the in-
structions to our envoy, was, in my judgment, im-
proper in principle and precedent.

I expect the treaty will labor. It contains many ]
good things, but there is one ingredient in it which
displeases me — of a commercial complexion. I am,
however, of opinion, on mature reflection, that it is
expedient to ratify, accompanied by a declaration
that it is our intention, till there be a further ex-
planation and modification of the article, to forbear
the exercise of a certain privilege, and consequently
the performance of the condition of it, or some thing
equivalent. This, it is true, may or may not be
accepted. But I believe it will create no difficulty, :
and I would rather risk it than take the treaty im-
qualifiedly. I prefer this course to that of sending
back the treaty for a new negotiation, because
(among other reasons) it may save time, and more
speedily close certain matters which I deem it very
important to terminate. I am also glad to learn
that, since the date of your letter, there have been
some convictions of the insurgents. This was very es-
sential to the permanent good effects of the meas-
ures which were pursued on that subject. You see,

loo Alexander Hamilton

I have not entirely lost my appetite for a little pol-
itics; you must not infer that I have not a very
good one for law.

P. S. — I had almost forgotten a principal object of
this letter. It concerns the Marquis Lafayette. In
conversation, I think, but certainly by letter (this
entre nous), I suggested to Mr. Jay that, in case the
treaty with Great Britain turned favorably, it will
be well to hint to the British minister that the
United States took a very particular interest in the
welfare of Lafayette, and that the good offices of
that country, to procure his liberation, woiild be
regarded as a valuable mark of friendship. I be-
lieve I also had some conversation, in the same
spirit, either with the President or the Secretary of
State ; but I do not remember if any thing was done.
If the thing has not been tried, and if the treaty is
ratified, will it not be advisable to instruct the per-
son who is to exchange it, to accompany it with an
observation of the above import ? The moment will
be a favorable one — and I imagine the time is fast
approaching when Lafayette will recover his popu-
larity in his own country. The chief thing against
this is the rivalship of those who hold the power.
But will they not be glad to consolidate their gen-
eral plan by weight of a man who with all parties,
has maintained the character of well-intentioned,
and who probably has the good- will of the multitude,
spite of all that has passed. I see no inconvenience
in your taking occasion to ask Mr. Jay if the Mar-
quis Lafayette was ever the subject of conversation

Private Correspondence loi

between him and the British ministry, and how it
terminated. And I will thank you, if you feel your-
self at liberty, to let me know whether any thing like
the step I have suggested obtains.'

TO RUFUS KING

New York, Jime ii, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your letter of the loth. The case
has been with me as with you. Reflection has not
mitigated the exceptionable point. Yet it will be to
be lamented, if no mode can be devised to save the
main object and close the irritable questions which
are provided for. Every thing besides an absolute
and simple ratification will put some thing in jeop-
ardy. But while, on the one hand, I think it ad-
visable to hazard as little as possible, on the other,
I should be willing to hazard some thing, and un-
willing to see a very objectionable principle put into
activity.

It is to be observed that no time is fixed for the
ratification of the treaty. It may then be ratified
with a collateral instruction to make a declaration,
that the United States considers the article in ques-
tion, aggregately taken, as intended by the king of
Great Britain as a privilege ; that they conceive it for
their interest to forbear the exercise of that privilege,
with the condition annexed to it, till an explanation
in order to a new modification of it shall place it on
a more acceptable footing, or till an article to be

' Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vi., 216.

I02 Alexander Hamilton

sent to our minister containing that modification
shall be agreed upon between him and the British
court as a part of the treaty — the ratification not to
be exchanged without further instruction from this
country, unless accepted in this sense and with this
qualification.

This course appears to me preferable to sending
back the treaty to open the negotiation anew, be-
cause it may save time on the points most interest-
ing to us, and I do not see that if the ratifications be
exchanged with this saving, there can be any doubt
of the matter operating as intended. Adieu.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Jxine 13, 1795.

Dear Sir:

Your letter from New York, after a circuit by
Albany, found me here.

I forgot to observe to you in my last, that unless
there were objections to it which did not occur to
me, it appeared advisable, if not done, to institute
at Amsterdam a plan for subscribing the Dutch and
Antwerp debt. It may be conducted under the
management of our commissioners with the superin-
tendence of our minister. In all such cases a con-
siderable deal depends on facilities on the very spot,
and the moment seems particularly favorable.

P. S. — I will willingly testify what you mention
respecting Mr. Cabot,' but having torn up your letter,

^ George Cabot, Senator from Massachusetts, an intimate friend of
Hamilton and Wolcott. It is impossible now to tell the meaning of
the reference here made to him.

Private Correspondence 103

trusting to my memory, it havS left me in the lurch,
and I do not know where Cabot is, whether here or
in Europe. What prospects as to the treaty f '

TO RUFUS KING

New York, June 20, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

A considerable alarm has been spread this morning
by a report that the treaty had been disagreed to.
I have assured those I have seen that I was con-
vinced any rumor of a decision must be premature.
The anxiety, however, about the result is extreme.
The comimon opinion among men of business of all
descriptions is that a disagreement to the treaty
would greatly shock and stagnate pecuniary plans
and operations in general. This is not a small source
of disquietude. Others, who are not likely to be
affected in that sense (and among these myself),
look forward to the result with great solicitude, as
fixing or endangering the stability of our present
beneficial and desirable situation.

My influence in seconding the wishes of our friend
General Greene is, I fear, overrated. Unwilling to
raise expectation which may not be realized, I will
only say that it will give me real pleasure to be able
to promote his accommodation or advantage, as my
opinion of him entirely corresponds with yours. In

I Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society. I owe this and other letters from the
same source to the kindness of the Hon. J. Hammond Trumbull, of
Hartford.

I04 Alexander Hamilton

the meantime I will, as far as circumstances permit,
have an eye to the affair.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Jiine 22, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the i8th instant. I
will reply to one or two points now, and to the rest
hereafter.

With regard to the measure of receiving Dutch
bonds here to be exchanged, as is usual, it has differ-
ent sides. To do it may be, in some measure, neces-
sary to effectuate the main object, as there may be
many individuals who, from circumstances, might
not think themselves safe in employing the mode
which has been adopted, and which is no doubt
proper. Yet it is easy to see it might be attended
with hazard of imposition. But some thing may
depend on the nature of the checks which the course
of the business originally gives to our agents at
Amsterdam. If similitude of handwriting is the only
internal check, perhaps it may be possible to manage
the matter here. A conversation with Cazenove
may furnish you with the requisite data. Yet I feel
great doubts of the safety of the operation, and, if
adopted at all, it ought to be upon condition that no
definitive or alienable evidences are to be given in
exchange for the original bonds till after a period
(to be named) long enough to receive at the treasury
the result of the operation in Holland, and a parti-
cular and detailed statement of it; and that no
interest be payable (in the meantime) without a
guaranty for repayment. With these checks none

Private Correspondence 105

but respectable men will come forward, and there may
be little or no risk. Yet, as I intimated, even the ex-
pediency of this depends on the nature of the original
checks, and it ought to be announced that the treasury
reserves to itself entire discretion as to the admission
or non-admission of the bonds presented here.

With regard to the contract proposed by Mr.
Swan, I answer, that I doubt much the advisability
of concluding any thing with him here, for being
concluded, it must be relied upon as a primary re-
source with the auxiliary and contingent expedient
of drawing in case of failure; and Mr. Swan is not
of standing, or character, to justify the leaving the
public credit to depend primarily upon his punc-
tuality. If Mr. Swan is able to do what he offers, it
must be on the basis of French government funds, or
that of a powerful moneyed combination in Europe.
If either, why cannot he be referred to our commis-
sioners and minister, under letters from the treasury
stating the offer, the desirableness that such a con-
tract could be formed under adequate guards for its
performance, and leaving it to them to judge of the
adequateness of the guards which shall be proposed?
It appears to me very material that they should be
satisfied with the arrangement, and essential that
there should be good security and known resources
for the execution of it.

Else no loss on shipping commodities, or other-
wise, for the short time it can last, will counterpoise
the risk of disappointment and censure of reliance on
an incompetent character.

I will barely observe on one point of the latter part

io6 Alexander Hamilton

of your letter, namely, the payment of interest under
the direction of the commissioners of the sinking
fund. I have not the act by me, and can only speak
from memory; but I am persuaded it does not re-
quire it. I am sure it will be highly inexpedient to
place any extra clogs on that operation, and I do not
perceive why the manner of keeping the accounts
may not obviate any embarrassment from a separate
management of the two things. I will write again
more particularly, on this as well as on other points.
I am glad to know that there is a probability of a
proper issue to the affair of the treaty.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, June 26, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have direct information, in confidence, that the
minister of France, by a letter received yesterday,
has ordered a fast-sailing vessel for France to be pre-
pared at this port. No doubt this has connection
with the treaty with England. I presume, with the
reserves that decorum requires, he is apprised of the
contents of that treaty. This ought, at least, to go
so far as to satisfy him that there is nothing in it
inimical to his country, especially as I suppose it to
have been adopted. It is well to guard our peace on
all sides, as far as shall consist with dignity.

Indeed, I am of opinion, on the whole, that all
further mystery at present is unnecessary, and ought
to be waived, for the satisfaction of the public mind.
I do not think any scruples of diplomatic decorum
of weight enough to stand in the way.

Private Correspondence 107

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, June 30, 1795.

Dear Sir:

Doctor Livingston some time since left with me a
bundle of vouchers relating to the questions between
Phil. Livingston's estate and the public. There was,
among other things, a little register or book with a
marble cover, doubled up. I do not find it among
my papers, and if m.y memory does not deceive me
it was sent, on breaking up at Philadelphia, to one
of the officers of the treasury. Mr. Jones may know
some thing of it. It is interesting to the estate. Let
a careful search be made, and when found let it be
forwarded by a careful hand to me,

P. S. — I find the non-publication of the treaty is
working as I expected — that is, giving much scope
to misrepresentation and misapprehension. The
Senate, I am informed by several members, did not
take any step towards publication, because they
thought it the affair of the President to do as he
thought fit.'

TO ROBERT TROUP '

New York, July 25, 1795.

My Dear Troup:

Confiding in your integrity and friendship to me, I
have made you executor of my will. My concerns
are not very extensive and of course will not give
you much trouble. Indeed, I might have dispensed

^ Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

2 Robert Troup, of New York, a gallant officer in the war for inde-
pendence. He was a successful lawyer, a United States district judge,
and one of Hamilton's closest friends.

io8 Alexander Hamilton

with the ceremony of making a will as to what I may
myself leave, had I not wished that my little prop-
erty may be applied as readily and as fairly as may
be to the benefit of my few creditors. For after a
life of labor I leave my family to the benevolence of
others, if my course shall happen to be terminated
here.

My property will appear on the list herewith
marked A.

My creditors are John Barker Church,' to whom
I owe about five thousand pounds, as will appear by
account marked B.

The Office of Discount and Deposit, New York,
who hold a note of mine for five hundred dollars en-
dorsed by Nicholas Fish. The holders, unknown, of
two drafts drawn upon me by my father, one for
five hundred, the other for two hundred, dollars.
Mr. Meade, to whom Ceracchi gave a bill on me for
six hundred and odd dollars, which I told Mr. Lud-
low it was my intention to pay.

Mr. Sheaf, of Philadelphia, wine merchant, to
whom I owe a balance of account not very con-
siderable. Gaspard Joseph Armand Ducher, who
has my bond in duplicate for ;£698 principal, being
for money which he left in my hands when he went
to France, having no better disposition of it. This,
being a bond debt, will claim a preference, and from
the nature of it I am glad of it.

Arthur Noble, Esquire, who has my bond for the
fourth part of the lands purchased of him in company
with yourself, Lawrence, and Fish. The lands them-

' His brother-in-law.

Private Correspondence 109

selves will be a fund for the payment of these bonds.
I hope the poor fellow may be alive. He was a
member of the convention.

I have left in the hands of Col. Fish the obligations
mentioned in the list of Cortland and of Wickham &
Thompson, to secure him in this mere act of friend-
ship from the possibility of loss, and to accelerate his
reimbursement .

I hesitated whether I would not also secure a
preference to the drafts of my father, but these, as
far as I am concerned, being a voluntary engagement,
I doubted the justice of the measure, and I have
done nothing. I regret it, lest they should return
upon him and increase his distress. Though, as I
am informed, a man of respectable connections in
Scotland,' he became, as a merchant, bankrupt at
an early day in the West Indies and is now in indi-
gence. I have pressed him to come to me, but his
great age and infirmity have deterred him from the
change of climate.

I hope w^hat I leave may prove equal to my debts.
If it does not, I have the consolation of hoping that
the loss will be permitted by himself to fall upon my
brother-in-law, Mr. Church, whose friendship and
generosity I do not doubt.

I regret that his affairs as well as my own have
suffered by my devotion to the public service. But
I trust, upon the whole, that the few operations I
have made for him will more than recompense him
for my omissions, though they will not have been as

^ When Hamilton speaks in this way of his father, it is not surprising
that so much mystery should overhang his birth and parentage.

no Alexander Hamilton

profitable to him as they ought to have been, and
as they would have been if I could have paid more
attention.

Purchases of lands have been made for Mr. Church,
first, in Pennsylvania, in company with Tench Coxe,
to whom I advanced ten thousand dollars ; second, in
this City of New York, in company with J. Lawrence,
to whom I have advanced the sums mentioned in the
accotmt marked C, in bundle AA. Besides these ad-
vances, I have put into his hands a draft of Fit-
simmons upon Constable, accepted by the latter, for
four thousand dollars, and a set of bills for five
hundred pounds sterling, received from Robert Mor-
ris, drawn by Harrison & Sherret upon the house
of Cazenove & Co., London. These are all on the
same account of the purchases.

You will find, in the bundle marked AB, a smaller
bundle marked D, which will explain the nature and
state of the business with Mr. Coxe, by which also
you will see that Mr. Anthony, who is a very good
man, is my agent in that affair.

You will also find in bundle AA a note of Mr.
Morris for nine thousand five hundred dollars, on
account of which the above bills are. This note was
for money lent belonging to Mr. Church. Mr. Mor-
ris will not dispute that it bears interest from the
date. Indeed, the real sum was ten thousand dol-
lars, but Mr. Morris after some time paid me five
hundred. The interest ought to be calculated ac-
cordingly. Mr. Morris can furnish the data.

As this money was thus disposed of without being
warranted by the spirit of Mr. Church's instructions,

Private Correspondence iii

I considered myself as responsible for it. And I
trust that Mr. Morris will exert himself to pay the
balance speedily, to be applied to the investments
which Mr. Lawrence is making.

I have received some large fees for which the
parties could not have had equivalents: from Wil-
liamson, one hundred pounds; from Constable, one
hundred pounds ; from Macombe, one hundred
pounds ; from Mr. Bayard, on behalf of Wilken and
Jared Willink, one hundred pounds. It would be
just, if there were means, that they should be repaid.
But what can I direct who am, I fear, insolvent?

God bless you, my friend. Be assured always of
the attachment of, etc.

P. S. — I remitted vSheaf, on my way through Jer-
sey, an order on the Bank of the United States for a
good part of his demand. This will appear by my
bank account.

In my leather trank, where the bundles above
mentioned are, is also a bundle I. R. inscribed thus:

To he forwarded to Oliver Wolcott, Jun., Esqr.

I entreat that this may be early done by a careful
hand.

This trunk contains all my interesting papers.^

^This long and interesting letter is now first printed from the Hamil-
ton papers in the State Department. It furnishes a striking commen-
tary on the charges of corruption made against Hamilton by Jefferson
and his tools, and on Madison's cold sneer that Hamilton retired from
office alleging poverty as the cause.

112 Alexander Hamilton

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, July 28, 1795.

Dear Sir:

We have some cause to suspect, though not enough
to believe, that our Jacobins meditate serious mis-
chief to certain individuals. It happens that the
militia of this city, from the complexion of its officers
in general, cannot be depended on, and it will be
difficult for some time to organize a competent armed
substitute. In this situation our eyes turn as a re-
source in a sudden emergency, upon the military now
in the forts, but these, we are told, are under march-
ing orders. Pray converse confidentially with the
Secretary of War, and engage him to suspend the
march. Matters in eight or ten days will explain
themselves.

How are things truly in Philadelphia? I have
good reason to believe that the President, before he
left Philadelphia, had concluded to ratify the treaty
according to the advice of the Senate. Has any
thing finally been done, or are we where we were?

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, August 5, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received yours of the 3d instant. You
make no mention of having received one from me,
enclosing another for the Attorney-General, in which
I tell him that I will attend the cause which involves
the question respecting direct taxes when notified of
the time it will come on.

Private Correspondence 113

The silence of your letter makes me fear it may
have miscarried.

I do not wonder at what you tell me of the author
of a certain piece.' That man is too cunning to be
wise. I have been so much in the habit of seeing
him mistaken, that I hold his opinion cheap.^

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, August lo, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter by Saturday's post.
The one you enquire about was received.

1 incline very much to the opinion that this will
be the proper course of conduct in reference to the
order to seize our vessels with provisions — viz., to
send to our agent the treaty ratified as advised by
the Senate, with this instruction: that if the order
for seizing provisions is in force when he receives it,
he is to inform the British ministry that he has the
treaty ratified, but that he is instructed not to ex-
change the ratification till that order is rescinded,
since the United States cannot ever give an implied
sanction to the principle. At the same time a re-
monstrance ought to go from this country, well
considered and well digested, even to a wordy to be
delivered against the principle of the order.

My reasons for this opinion are summarily these:

^ Note by Oliver Wolcott: "Tench Coxe, author of a piece signed
Juriscola." Tench Coxe was commissioner of revenue, and, as has
appeared above, had already made charges against and attempted to
injure both Hamilton and Wolcott.

2 Now first printed from the Wolcott papers, in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

VOL. X.— 8.

114 Alexander Hamilton

Firstly. — That in fact we are too much interested
in the exemption of provisions from seizure to give
even an implied sanction to the contrary pretensions.

Secondly. — That the exchange of ratifications
pending such an order would give color to an abusive
construction of the eighteenth article of the treaty,
as though it admitted of the seizure of provisions.

Thirdly. — That this would give cause of umbrage
to France, because it would be more than merely to
refrain from resisting by force an innovation injurious
to her, but it would be to give a sanction to it in the
midst of a war.

Fourthly. — It would be thus construed in our
country, and would destroy confidence in the gov-
ernment.

Fifthly. — It would scarcely be reputable to a na-
tion to conduct a treaty with a Power to heal past
controversies, at the very moment of a new and
existing violation of its rights.

P. S. — Deliver the enclosed as soon as it gets
to hand. If an order has existed, and has been
rescinded, the remonstrance ought still to be pre-
sented, after the exchange of ratifications, as a pro-
test against the principle, etc.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Sept. 20, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

A slight indisposition prevented my meeting you
at E. Town, which I should otherwise have done
with great pleasure.

Private Correspondence 115

It is wished for a particular purpose to know who
are the writers of Valerius, Hancock, Belisarius, AU^
ticus. If any thing about them is known in a manner
that can be depended upon, I will thank you for it in
confidence.

The fever in this town has become serious. The
alarm, however, exceeds the quantum of disease and
danger. It is not ascertained that the fever is con-
tagious. It is clearly traced to local causes, but it
is sufficiently mortal. Bleeding is found fatal. Most
of our physicians purge more or less, some with
calomel, I fear more than does good; bark, wine,
etc., plentifully used, and with good effect. They,
however, all behave well, and shrink not from their
duty.

Show the last paragraph of this letter to Doctor
Stevens, from whom, though I have written to him,
I have not received a line since I came to New York.'

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Oct. 3, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the , and thank

you for the information. As to Randolph, I shall
be surprised at nothing, but if the facts come out,
his personal influence is at all events damned. No
coloring will remove unfavorable impressions. To
do mischief, he must work in the dark.

What you say respecting your own department

'Now first printed from the Wolcott papers, in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

ii6 Alexander Hamilton

disquiets me, for I think we shall, for the present,
weather all storms but those from real deficiencies
in our public an-angements. Not knowing details, I
can attempt to suggest nothing, except the general
observation, that if the means heretofore provided,
are seriously likely to prove inadequate. Congress
ought to be explicitly told so, in order to a further
provision. It was a maxim in my mind, that ex-
ecutive arrangements should not fail for want of full
disclosure to the Legislature. Then, if adequate
provision be not made, the responsibility is theirs.
The worst evil we can struggle with is inefficiency in
the measures of government.

If I remember right, it never appeared that
Fauchet had any power to make a commercial
treaty with us, and the late Attorney-General
(Bradford) informed me that Adet had power only
to treat, none to conclude. How are these things? I
ask for special reasons.'

What is the object of the dispatch-boat from
France? Nothing menacing, I hope.

' Col. Pickering writes Wolcott in reference to the above:

" October 6, i795'
"Dear Sir: — Mr. Taylor informs me that Mr. Fauchet never to his
knowledge made even any overtures relative to a treaty of any kind.
I have cast my eye over those of Mr. Adet, by which it appears, that
he is authorized to digest with the American Government a new treaty
of commerce and a new consular convention, but not to conclude any
thing. Mr. Randolph agreed to meet him on this ground. If the
articles digested should meet the approbation of the respective govern-
ments, they might give full powers to constitute of these articles the
proposed new treaties.

"Sincerely yours,

•• T. Pickering."

Private Correspondence 117

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Oct. 3, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 6th instant.

I am of opinion that the commissioners to be ap-
pointed under the seventh article are competent to
grant relief, in all cases of captures and condemna-
tions of our property, during the present war, and
antecedent to the treaty, which were contrary to the
laws of nations, and in which there is adequate evi-
dence (of which they are to judge bona fide), that
compensation could not, at the time of the treaty,
for whatever reason, be actually obtained. I think
their power competent to relief, after a decision, in
the last resort; that is, by the Lords Commissioners
of Appeals, and if the proper steps have been taken
to ascertain that justice cannot be had, in the ordin-
ary course of justice, before and without such decision.

This opinion is founded upon the following reasons :

Firstly. — The subject of complaint to be redressed
is irregular or illegal captures or condemnations. The
word "condemnations" is general. It is not re-
stricted to condemnations in the inferior courts, or in
the final Court of Appeals. It may then apply to
either. Condemnation in the last resort may have
been had prior to the treaty. There being no re-
striction, they, like those in inferior tribunals, were
equally within the terms of complaint. But could
they be illegal? Yes, in controversies between na-
tions, respecting the application of the rules of the
laws of nations, decisions of the highest court of one
of the parties, if contrary to those rules, are illegal.

ii8 Alexander Hamilton

In other words, they are contrary to that law, which
is the standard of legality and illegality between na-
tions; and, if manifestly so, are a cause of war.
Moreover, this rule of legality or illegality, is recog-
nized by the article itself, in that part which au-
thorizes the commissioners to decide according to
the merits of the several cases, to justice, equity, and
the law of nations.

Secondly. — The article contemplates that '* various
circumstances'' may obstruct compensation in the
ordinary course of justice. These terms would not be
fully satisfied by tying the article down, as has been
attempted, to cases of insolvency and absconding.

Thirdly. — The article expressly declares, that when
compensation cannot, ''for whatever reason,'' be had
in the ordinary course of justice, it shall be made
by the British Government upon the award of the
commissioners. It is inadmissible to narrow down
these very comprehensive terms to the two cases of
insolvency or absconding. They are commensurate
with every cause of irregularity or illegality, pro-
nounced such by the laws of nations. The excep-
tions of manifest delay, or negligence, or willful
omission, confirm the extensive interpretation.

Fourthly. — The commissioners are not restricted
in the description of cases they are to take up; and
they are to decide them according to their merits, to
justice, equity, and the laws of nations. These terms
are as latitudinary as they could be made. They
seemed formed on purpose to overrule any technical
difficulties, with regard to local tribunals, or positive
rules of decision in those tribunals.

Private Correspondence 119

Fifthly. — The nature of the circumstance which
led to the article, and which involved a controversy
between the two nations, respecting the rules of the
laws of nations, as well as the application of those
rules. The natural presumption is that it was meant
to refer this controversy, in all its latitude, to the
extraordinary tribunal created ; to transfer the right
of judgment of each nation, which, being exercised
differently, might have ended in war, to that tribunal.
Any thing less than this would be inadequate to the
origin of the business, to the solemnity of the pro-
vision, or to the views which, from the facts, must
be conceived to have governed the parties.

All this appears so clear to me that I confess I am
confounded at an opinion which I have seen of
Messrs. Lewis and Rawle. They seem to pare away
the object of the articles to the two cases mentioned
above, founding their opinion upon the maxim that
the courts of the belligerent power are the com-
petent tribunals to decide similar questions between
that power and a neutral nation.

This maxim is true, but how can it be deemed to
apply to the instance of a controversy between two
nations about the interpretation of the laws of na-
tions, and about the decisions of courts founded upon
an interpretation concerning which they disagreed?
And this when an extraordinary tribunal has been
constituted by the joint acts of the two parties, to
decide their differences plainly as a substitute for a
controversy by arms? Is not the constitution of
such a tribunal by the two parties a manifest aban-
donment of the pretension of one to administer

I20 Alexander Hamilton

justice definitely through its tribunals? How can it
be presumed, after such a proceeding, that the neu-
tral power meant to be concluded by the decisions of
those tribunals ? Is not the reverse the obvious pre-
sumption? Why else was it not left to the British
Courts of Admiralty to liquidate the damages in
the admitted cases of insolvency and absconding to
be paid by the government? These circumstances
could call for a substitute only in the person to pay,
not in the person, or tribunal, which was to liquidate.
There was no need, on the principle set up, for an ex-
traordinary tribunal to liquidate and award damages.

I confess that the opinion referred to appears to
me destitute of color; contrary to the antecedent
course of the transaction, contrary to the positive
expressions of the article, and to what can reason-
ably be presumed to be the intention of the parties.
It fritters away to nothing a very solemn and im-
portant act between two contending nations.

The exception of the cases in which justice might
be obtained, in the ordinary course, appears to me to
decide nothing. It might be unobtainable in that
course as well from the obstructions of positive regu-
lations of the belligerent parties controlling the
courts, and from false principles adopted by the
courts, as from the inability or default of the captors.
The commissioners, who are the court of the two na-
tions, are to pronounce whether justice is unobtain-
able in the ordinary course for any of these reasons.
As the tribunals of both parties, they are necessarily
superior to the tribunals of either. And they are the
judges, in their own way, and upon their own grounds,

Private Correspondence 121

of the question whether and when justice can or
cannot be obtained in the ordinary course.

But they ought to exercise their discretion reason-
ably— not to abuse it, otherwise they may release the
party injured from the obligation to perform.

Hence, though it is not necessary that every indi-
vidual case of capture should be prosecuted to a
decision in the last resort, it appears to me proper that,
by such prosecution of some one case of the several
classes of cases, it may be ascertained, by a final
decision on the principle of each class, that redress
cannot be obtained. Else the commissioners may
object that there has been a neglect to procure for
them satisfactory evidence that justice could not
be had in the ordinary course.

I would advise, then, that our agent be instructed
to lay all the cases, with the evidence, before our
counsel, and to desire them to make a selection of
one of each class in which a defence can be made
with probability of success, on some difference of
principle; to have these cases prosecuted to an
ultimate decision, and to leave all the rest pending,
if possible, undecided in a course of appeal. This
will give reasonable evidence to the commissioners,
strengthened, in view of those appointed by the other
party, by the character of our counsel, who, I learn,
are every way men of respectability.

The other points in your letter I shall pursue
hereafter.

P. S. — In a consultation on an insurance case be-
tween our district attorney, Mr. Burr, B. Livingston,

122 Alexander Hamilton

and myself, the above points incidentally occurred,
and I understood all these gentlemen as agreeing in
the opinion I have stated. You are at liberty to
communicate this to Mr. Pickering.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Oct. i6, 1795.

Sir:

About a fortnight since arrived here Mr. Frestel,

with G. W. Fayette, the son of the marquis. The
former, who is in capacity of tutor to the latter, re-
quested me to mention their arrival to you, and that
they meant to retire to some place in the neighbor-
ing country until they should receive some direction
from you. Thus, at least, I understood him, and
accordingly they are gone to a house between Hack-
ensack and Ramapo, in the Jerseys, to which may be
conveyed any letter you may confide to me for them.
They are incog.

Having been informed you were speedily ex-
pected from Philadelphia, and being oppressed with
occupation, I delayed writing till this time.

Mr. Frestel, who appears a very sedate, discreet
man, informs me that they left France with permis-
sion, though not in their real characters, but in fact
with the privity of some members of the Committee
of Safety who were disposed to shut their eyes and
facilitate their departure.

The young Fayette also appears to me very ad-
vantageously modest, of very good manners, and
expressing himself with intelligence and propriety.

Shall I trespass on your indulgence by hazarding a

Private Correspondence 123

sentiment upon the subject of this young gentleman?
If I do, let it be ascribed to the double interest I take
in the son of the marquis, and in whatever interests
the good fame and satisfaction of him to whom I write.

On mature reflection, and on sounding opinions as
far as opportunity and the nature of the case have
permxitted, I fully believe that the President need be
under no embarrassment as to any good offices his
heart may lead him to perform towards this young
man. It will not, I am persuaded, displease those
in possession of the power of the country from which
he comes, and in ours it will be singularly and
generally grateful. I am even convinced that the
personal and political enemies of the President
would be gratified, should his ideas of the policy of
the case restrain him from that conduct which his
friendship to the m.arquis and his feelings otherwise
would dictate. The youth of this person, joined to
the standing of his father, make the way easy.

I even venture to think it possible that the time
is not very remote when the marquis will again re-
cover the confidence and esteem of his country, when
perhaps the men in power may be glad to glorify
themselves and their cause with his alliance. This,
however, is supposition, merely to be indulged as a
reflection, not to be counted upon as a fact.

There is another subject upon which I will hazard
a few words. It is that of Mr. Randolph. I have
seen the intercepted letter, which, I presume, led to
his resignation. I read it with regret, but without
much surprise, for I never had any confidence in Mr.
Randolph, and I thought there were very suspicious

124 Alexander Hamilton

appearances about him on the occasion to which the
letter particularly refers.

I perceive that, rendered desperate, he meditates
as much mischief as he can. The letter he calls for,
I presume, is that above alluded to. His object is,
if he obtains it, to prejudice others; if any part is
kept back, to derive advantage to his cause from the
idea that there may be some thing reserved which
would tend to his exculpation, and to produce the
suspicion that there is some thing which you are in-
terested to keep from the light.

Though, from the state of public prejudices, I
shall probably for one be a sufferer by the publica-
tion; yet, upon the whole, I incline to the opinion
that it is most advisable the whole should come be-
fore the public. I acknowledge that I do not ex-
press this opinion without hesitation, and therefore
it will deserve, as it will no doubt engage, your ma-
ture reflection; but such is the present bias of my
judgment. I am the more inclined to the opinion,
as I presume that the subject being in part before the
public, the whole letter will finally come out through
the quarter by which it was written, and then it would
have additional weight to produce ill impressions.

With great respect and affectionate attachment, I
have the honor to be, etc.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Oct. 26, 1795.

Sir:

I have noticed a piece in the Aurora, under the
fijL' signature of the '' Calm Observer," which I think re-

Private Correspondence 125

quires explanation, and I mean to give one with my
name.' I have written to Mr. Wolcott for material
from the books of the treasury.

Should you think it proper to meet the vile in-
sinuation in the close of it, by furnishing for one
year the account of expenditure of the salary, I will
with pleasure add what may be proper on that point.
If there be any such account signed by Mr. Lear, it
may be useful.

I wrote to you some days since, directed to you
at Philadelphia, chiefly on the subject of young La
Fayette. I mention it merely that you may have
knowledge that there is such a letter, in case it has
not yet come to hand.

I touched in it upon a certain intercepted letter.
The more I have reflected, the more I am of opinion
that it is advisable the whole should speedily appear.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Oct. 26, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I have observed in the Aurora, a piece under the
signature of "A Calm Observer," which I think
merits attention. It is my design to reply to it,
with my name, but for this I wish to be furnished, as
soon as possible, with the account of the President,
and of the appropriations for him, as it stands in the
Secretary's office, the Comptroller's, and the account
rendered to Congress, and also the account of ap-
propriations for this object. Of one point I am

I This reply was didy published. See above, "The Explanation,"
vol. viii., p. 122.

126 Alexander Hamilton

sure — that we never exceeded the appropriations y
though we may have anticipated the service. Add
any remarks you may judge useful. The sooner the
better.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Oct. 27, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I wish the statements requested in my letter
of yesterday may contain each particular payment,
not aggregates for periods. It runs in my mind that
once, there being no appropriation, I procured an
informal advance for the President from the bank.
If this is so, let me know the time and particulars. If
the account has been wound up to an exact adjust-
ment, since the period noticed by the ''Calm Ob-
server," it may be useful to carry it down to that
period.

I should like to have a note of other instances of
advances on account of salaries.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Oct. 30, 1795.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you yesterday for a statement of the
advances and appropriations for the Department of
State.

I am very anxious that Fauchefs whole letter
should appear just as it is. Strange whispers are
in circulation of a nature foreign to truth, and im-

Private Correspondence 127

plicating honest men with rascals. Is it to come
out ? Can 't you send me a copy ? I will observe any
condition you annex.

The secret journals, and other files of the Depart-
ment of State, will disclose the following facts:

That during the war a commission to negotiate a
treaty of commerce with Great Britain, was given
to Mr. Adams, and afterwards revoked.

That our commissioners for making peace were in-
structed to take no step whatever, without a previous
consultation with the French ministry, though there
was at that time reason to believe that France
wished us to make peace, or truce, with Great Brit-
ain, without an acknowledgment of our indepen-
dence, that she favored a sacrifice to Spain of our
pretensions to the navigation of the Mississippi, and
the relinquishment of a participation in the fisheries.

It will appear that instructions were actually given
to Mr. Jay to yield the navigation of the Mississippi
to Spain, in consideration of an acknowledgment
of our independence ; that Mr. Jay made a proposal
accordingly, but clogged with some condition or
qualification to bring it back to Congress before
a final conclusion, and expostulated with Congress
against the measure.

It wHll appear that this was effected by a Southern
party, who would also have excluded the fisheries
from being an ultimatum, in which they were op-
posed by the North, who equally contended for Mis-
sissippi and fisheries.

It will appear that Chancellor Livingston, as
Secretary of State, reported a censure on our

128 Alexander Hamilton

commissioners for breaking their instructions in the
negotiations for peace.

It will appear that shortly after the arrival in this
country of the preliminary articles, I made a motion
in Congress to renew the commission to negotiate a
treaty of commerce with Great Britain, that a com-
mittee was appointed to prepare one, with instruc-
tions, of which Mr. Madison was one, and that the
committee never reported.

Thus stand the facts in my memory.

It is very desirable, now that a free access to the
files of the department can give the evidence, to
examine them accurately; noting times, places, cir-
cumstances, actors, etc. I want this very much for
a public use, in my opinion essential.

It would also be useful to have a copy of Mr. Jef-
ferson's letter to Congress concerning the transfer of
the French debt to private money-lenders, on which
the report of the Board of Treasury is founded.

Nov. 1 2th. This letter, by accident, has lain in
my desk since it was written. I send it still. B ache's
paper of the eleventh has a Valerius, which I think
gives an opportunity of oversetting him. The lead-
ing ideas may be :

Firstly. — He discloses the object of the party to
place Mr. Jefferson in contrast with the President.

Secondly. — He discloses the further object — an in-
timate and close alliance with France — to subject us
to the vortex of European politics, and attributes it
to Mr. Jefferson.

Thirdly. — He misrepresents totally Mr. Jefferson's
returning from France.

Private Correspondence 129

A solid answer to this paper, with facts, would do
great good.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Nov. 5, 1795.

Sir:

I received on the second instant your two letters
of the 29th of October with the enclosures. An an-
swer has been delayed to ascertain the disposition of
Mr. King, who, through the summer, has resided in
the country, and is only occasionally in town. I am
now able to inform you he would not accept. Cir-
cumstances of the moment conspire with the dis-
gust which a virtuous and independent mind feels
at placing itself en hut to the foul and venomous
shafts of calumny which are continually shot by an
odious confederacy against virtue, to give Mr. King
a decided disinclination to the office.

I wish, sir, I could present to you any useftil ideas
as a substitute; but the embarrassment is extreme
as to the Secretary of State. An Attorney-General,
I believe, may easily be fixed upon by a satisfactory
choice. Either Mr. Dexter or Mr. Gore would an-
swer. They are both men of undoubted probity.
Mr. Dexter has most natural talent, and is strong
in his particular profession. Mr. Gore, I believe, is
equally considered in his profession, and has more
various information. No good man doubts Mr.
Gore's purity, but he has made money by agencies
for British houses in the recovery of debts, etc., and
by operations in the funds, which a certain party

VOL. X.— 9.

I30 Alexander Hamilton

object to him. I believe Mr. Dexter is free from
every thing of this kind. Mr. King thinks Gore
on the whole preferable. I hesitate between them.
Either will, I think be a good appointment.

But for a Secretary of State, I know not what to
say. Smith, though not of fiill size, is very respect-
able for talent, and has pretty various information. I
think he has more real talent than the last incumbent
of the office. But there are strong objections to his
appointment. I fear he is of an uncomfortable tem-
per. He is popular with no description of men,
from a certain hardness of character; and he, more
than most other men, is considered as tinctured with
prejudices towards the British. In this particular
his ground is somewhat peculiar. It may suit party
views to say much of other men, but more in this
respect is believed with regard to Smith. I speak
merely as to bias and prejudice. There are things,
and important things, for which I would recommend
Smith — thinking well of his abilities, information,
industry, and integrity; but, at the present junc-
ture, I believe his appointment to the office in ques-
tion would be unadvisable.

Besides, it is very important that he should not
now be removed from the House of Representatives.

I have conferred with Mr. King with respect to
Mr. Potts. We both think well of his principles and
consider him as a man of good sense. But he is of a
cast of character ill-suited to such an appointment,
and is not extensive either as to talents or information.
It is also a serious question whether the Senate at
this time ought to be weakened.

Private Correspondence 131

Mr. Innis, I fear, is too absolutely lazy for Secre-
tary of State. The objection would weigh less as
Attorney-General.

The following characters, in the narrowness of the
probable circle as to willingness, have occurred to me.
Judge Pendleton, of Georgia; Mr. Desaussure (late
Director of the Mint), of South Carolina; Governor
Lee, or Mr. Lee, late Collector of Alexandria, of Vir-
ginia ; McHenry, of Maryland — / mean the Doctor.

Judge Pendleton writes well, is of respectable
abilities, and a gentleman-like, smooth man. If I
were sure of his political views, I should be much
disposed to adopt his appointment under the cir-
cumstances, but I fear he has been somewhat tainted
with the prejudices of Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison,
and I have afflicting suspicions concerning these
men. Desaussure, I believe, has considerable tal-
ents, is of gentleman-like manners, good views, and
only wants sufficient standing to put him upon a
footing with any attainable man.

Governor Lee' has several things for him and
several against him. He ought to have a good
secretary under him. His brother I only know
enough of to think him worth considering.

McHenry you know. He would give no strength
to the administration, but he would not disgrace
the office. His views are good. Perhaps his health,
etc., would prevent his accepting.

I do not know Judge Bee. I have barely thought
of him.

In fact, a first-rate character is not attainable. A

' "Light-Horse Harry," of Virginia.

132 Alexander Hamilton

second-rate must be taken with good dispositions and
barely decent qualifications. I wish I could throw
more light. 'T is a sad omen for the government.

By the fifteenth I will carefully attend to the other
parts of your letters. I regret that bad health and
a pressure of avocations will permit nothing earlier.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Nov. 19, 1795.

Sir:

Your letters of the i6th and i8th instant, with
the enclosures, are received.

An extraordinary pressure of professional busi-
ness has delayed my reply on the subject of young
La Fayette, in which another cause co-operated. I
wished, without unveiling the motives incidentally,
to sound the impressions of other persons of judg-
ment, who, I know, had been apprised of his being
in the country.

The bias of my inclination has been that you
should proceed as your letter of yesterday proposes,
and I cannot say it is changed, though it is weak-
ened. For I find that in other minds, and judicious
ones, a doubt is entertained, whether at the actual
crisis it would be prudent to give publicity to your
protection of him. It seems to be feared that the
factious might use it as a weapon to represent you
as a favorer of the anti-revolutionists of France;
and it is inferred that it would be inexpedient to
furnish at this moment any aliment to their slanders.

These ideas have enough of foundation and im-

Private Correspondence 133

portance to make me question my own impressions,
which, from natural disposition, are in similar cases
much to be distrusted.

I shall therefore do nothing more at present than
write to La Fayette and his preceptor to come to
New York, and I shall forbear any definite com-
munication to them till I hear further from you,
after you have reflected on the information I now
give.

Should 3^ou on reconsideration conclude on yield-
ing to the doubt as a matter of greater caution,
perhaps it will be then left for you to write to La Fay-
ette a letter, affectionate as your feelings will natur-
ally lead you to make it, announcing your resolution
to be to him a parent and friend, but mentioning
that very peculiar circumstances of the moment im-
pose on you the necessity of deferring the gratifica-
tion of your wishes for a personal interview, desiring
him at the same time to concert with me a plan of
disposing of himself satisfactorily and advantage-
ously in the meantime. I shall with pleasure
execute any commands you may give me on the
subject. The papers respecting this matter are
herewith returned. I shall without delay attend to
all the others.

TO PICKERING

New York, Nov. 20, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

I duly received your letter of the 17 th, which
needed no apology as it will always give me pleasure

134 Alexander Hamilton

to comply with any wish of yours connected with the
public service, or your personal satisfaction.

Good men, in the idea of your appointment to the
office of Secretary of State, will find many consola-
tions for your removal from one in which your use-
' fulness was well understood.

I wish it was easy to replace you in the depart-
ment you will leave. But this is a most difficult
point.

I consider it as absolutely necessary that the
person shall come from some State south of Penn-
sylvania. All the great offices in the hands of men
from Pennsylvania northward, would do the lord
knows what mischief. I speak as to public opinion.
Hence I forbear any remarks on characters from that
quarter.

Of those South, notwithstanding there are real and
weighty objections, I incline on the whole to Lee,^

Of the others whom you present (and none others
have occurred to me), whose qualifications are
known to me, I believe I should prefer Howard,^

Yet I speak with hesitation, for I am afraid he is
not enough a man of sense or business. But he is
of perfect worth, is respectable in the community,
and has reputation as a soldier.

There are others who would stand better as to
talents, but temper or fairness of character is wanted.
I do not know enough of Winden.

Since writing the above, Judge Pendleton, of

^ Henry Lee, of Virginia.

* John Eagar Howard, a soldier of the Revolution, and Governor of
Maryland. The Secretaryship of War was offered to him, and he
declined.

Private Correspondence 135

Georgia, has occurred to me. He was a military
man, Aide to General Greene, and esteemed by him.
He is certainly a man of handsome abilities. I have,
however, within a few days, heard that he had some
agency in the purchase of the Georgia lands. If he
has had any interested concern in this transaction,
it would be an immense objection. Otherwise, if
he would accept, all things considered, I should
prefer him. He is tinctured with Jeffersonian poli-
tics, but I should be mistaken if, among good men
and better informed, he did not go right.

I have received the French copy of a certain paper,
and thank you for it. The translation you men- { ^-k-
tion has not yet come to hand. I will with pleasure
revise, if requisite, and correct it. I even wish for
the opportunity; for, as you say, it much concerns
me, and it is also very important to the public, and
there are many nice turns of expression, which, to
be rendered perfectly, demand a very critical know-
ledge of the language.'

TO RUFUS KING

December 14, 1795.

My Dear Sir:

An extraordinary press of occupation has delayed
an answer to your letter on the subject of Mr. R.^
Though it may come too late, I comply with your
request as soon as I can.

* Now first printed from the Pickering papers, in the possession of
the Massachusetts Historical Society.

3 John Rutledge, of South Carolina, nominated by Washington for
Chief- Justice of the United States, and rejected by the Senate on ac-
count of his habits and consequent mental condition.

136 Alexander Hamilton

The subject is truly a perplexing one; my mind
has several times fluctuated. If there was nothing
in the case but his imprudent sally upon a certain
occasion, I should think the reasons for letting him
pass would outweigh those for opposing his passage.
But if it be really true that he is sottish, or that his
mind is otherwise deranged, or that he has exposed
himself by improper conduct in pecuniary transac-
tions, the bias of my judgment would be to nega-
tive. And as to the fact, I would satisfy myself by
careful inquiry of persons of character who may have
had an opportunity of knowing.

It is now, and, in certain probable events, will still
more be of infinite consequence that our judiciary
should be well composed. Reflection upon this in
its various aspects weighs heavily upon my mind
against Mr. R. upon the accounts I have received of
him, and balances very weighty considerations the
other way.

P. S. — From what a Mr. Wadsworth, lately in
Philadelphia tells me of a conversation between
Burr, Baldwin, and Gallatin, it would seem that the
two last gentlemen have made up their minds to
consider the treaty, if ratified by Great Britain,
as conclusive upon the House of Representatives. I
thought it well this should be known to you, if not
before understood from any other quarter.

Private Correspondence 137

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Dec. 24, 1795.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the .

Young La Fayette is now with me. I had before
made an offer of money in your name, and have re-
peated it; but the answer is, that they are not as yet
in want, and will have recourse when needed.

Young La Fayette appears melancholy, and has
grown thin. A letter lately received from his
mother, which speaks of some thing which she wishes
him to mention to you (as I learn from his preceptor),
has quickened his sensibility and increased his re-
gret. If I am satisfied that the present state of things
is likely to occasion a durable gloom, endangering
the health, and in some sort the mind of the young
man, I shall conclude, on the strength of former per-
mission, to send him to you for a short visit; the
rather, as upon repeated reflection, I am not able to
convince myself that there is any real inconvenience
in the step, and as there are certainly delicate oppo-
site sides. But it will be my endeavor to make him
content to remain away.

I have read with care Mr. Randolph's pamphlet. It
does not surprise me. I consider it as amounting to a
confession of guilt ; and I am persuaded this will be
the universal opinion. His attempts against you are
viewed by all whom I have seen, as base. They will
certainly fail of their aim, and will do good, rather than
harm, to the public cause and to yourself. It appears
to me that, by you, no notice can be, or ought to be,
taken of the publication. It contains its own antidote.

138 Alexander Hamilton

I perceive that Mr. Fauchet, and with him Mr.
Randolph, have imputed to me the having asked
to accompany you on the Western expedition.

The true course of the fact was as follows: You
had mentioned, and that early in the affair, as a
question for consideration, the propriety and ex-
pediency of your going out with the militia. But
no opinion had been given to you, and you had not
announced any determination on the point when my
letter to you, of the 19th of September, was written.
That letter does not ask to accompany you, but to be
permitted to go on the expedition. A short time
after it was sent, you mentioned to me that you had
concluded to go as far as Carlisle in the first in-
stance, and to take your ulterior determination ac-
cording to circumstances, and proposed to me to
accompany you.

My request was independent of your going or not
going. Its objects were — ist. That mentioned in
my letter. 2d. An anxious desire that, by being
present, I might have in my power, in a case very
interesting to my department, as well as the govern-
ment generally, to promote, in the event of your not
going on the expedition, a course of conduct the best
calculated to obviate impediments, and secure its
object. I had serious fears of treachery in Governor
Mifflin, and I thought that even Lee might miss the
policy of the case in some particulars, etc., etc.

These were the considerations that determined
me, and not the little cunning policy by which Mr.
Fauchet supposes me to have been governed.

I greatly miscalculate if a strong and general cur-

Private Correspondence 139

rent does not now set in favor of the government on \
the question of the treaty.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, Dec. 26, 1795.

Dear Sir:

Mr. Cutting has given to me a perusal of his papers,
respecting his agency in reheving our seamen from
British impress. He wished my opinion profession-
ally respecting the vahdity of his claim, which I de-
clined to give, because it would contradict certain
maxims I have prescribed to myself with regard
to public questions pending while I was part of the
administration .

But there are reasons which induce me to convey
to you privately my view of the subject.

It appears to me clearly established that Mr. Cut-
ting rendered a very meritorious and an important
service to the United States. Its value is not to be
estimated merely by the number of persons re-
lieved, but by the influence of the exertion upon
other cases — indeed, upon our trade generally with
the English ports at the juncture. It is also a ser-
vice very interesting to the feelings of all our citi-
zens— and there was certainly much good zeal and
address displayed upon the occasion. It sufficiently
appears, too, that the nature of the case must have
involved considerable expense, and in ways which
frequently would not admit of after authentication.

Under these circumstances I feel a strong impres-
sion that it is of the policy, as well as of the justice

I40 Alexander Hamilton

of the government, to go lengths in giving satisfac-
tion to Mr. Cutting. 'T is a case which calls for
liberality, not scrupulous or prying investigation.
Mr. Cutting's own testimony from necessity ought to
be received as to expenditures. This observation, to
be sure, has reasonable limits. But still the case
demands that the testimony should be received with
influential effect.

Mr. Dorhman is an example of similar compensa-
tion in circumstances not unlike. Our own citizen
has not an inferior claim.

What has been hitherto done for Mr. Cutting ap-
pears to be manifestly inadequate. If it could be
supposed that there was risk of doing too much, it is
of the reputation of the government that the error
should be on that side. Care ought to be taken that
a zealous citizen, who has rendered real service,
should not be out of pocket, and out of reputation,
too, by his bargain. I include a reasonable com-
pensation for service, as well as reimbursement of
expenses.

These ideas will, I am sure, be received as they are
intended.

TO WASHINGTON

December, 1795.

Sir:

I have the pleasure to send you enclosed two let-
ters— one from young Lafayette, the other from his
preceptor. They appear reconciled to some further
delay.

I take the liberty to enclose a copy of a letter to

Private Correspondence 141

the Secretary of State respecting Mr. Cutting. I do
not know upon the whole what sort of a man Mr.
Cutting is; but as to the particular subject of his
claim, I really think it deserves an indulgent consid-
eration, and that it is expedient and right to favor it
to a liberal extent. Some reflections have made me
think it advisable to place the matter under your
eye. Neither the Secretary of State nor Mr. Cutting
will be informed of this.

I wrote you a few lines two or three days ago in
answer to your letter concerning Mr. Randolph's
pamphlet.

TO RUFUS KING

January, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

If the newspapers tell truth, it would appear that
Massachusetts has anticipated New York. But it is
intended by our friends in the Legislature to give
some pointed discountenance to the propositions.
It was expected that it would have been done to-day,
but by the divergings of some men who seek popu-
larity with both sides, they have gotten into an
unnecessary debate upon the proposition in detail,
which will lose time; but in the result a handsome
majority will do right.

Lawrence is hurt, and as far as I see, not without
some reason, from particular circumstances, at being
left out of the direction of the bank. It will be balm
to his feelings to be put into the direction of the
office here, and I believe it will be an improve-
ment of the direction to do it. I wish you would

142 Alexander Hamilton

endeavor to bring it about. Speak to Bayard of our
city and to Wharton of Philadelphia. This is a sug-
gestion of my own, for Lawrence rather rides a high
horse upon the occasion. Yours truly.

TO WASHINGTON

Jan. 19, 1796.

Sir:

The bearer of this letter is Doctor Bollman," whom
you have heard of as having made an attempt for
the relief of the Marquis La Fayette, which very
nearly succeeded. The circumstances of this affair,
as stated by Doctor Bollman and Mr. Huger,^ son of
B. Huger, of South Carolina, deceased, who assisted,
do real credit to the prudence, management, and
enterprise of the doctor, and show that he is a man
of sense and energy.

He appears to have been induced to think that
he attempted a service which would strongly recom-
mend him to the favor of this country, in which idea
I have reason to believe that Mr. Pinckney, among
others, encouraged him, and, as a consequence of it,
he hopes for some civil employment under our gov-
ernment. His expectations of what he may begin
with are not high, it being principally his object to

' Eric Bollman, M.D., a Hanoverian by birth, concerned, as here
stated, in the effort to liberate La Fayette. Banished for this, he came
to the United States, and was a friend of Burr, and mixed up in his
conspiracy, after which he returned to Europe.

' Francis Kinloch Huger, whose father. Col. Benj. Huger, was killed
in the war, at Charleston, in 1780. He returned after the affair at
Olmutz and entered the army. He died in 1855, aged 81.

Private Correspondence 143

obtain some present provision in a way which may
lead him, if he discovers talents, to some thing bet-
ter. He appears to be a man of education, speaks
several languages, converses sensibly, is of polite
manners, and, I dare say, has the materials of future
advancement.

I have not left him unapprised of the difficulties in
his way, but he concludes to go to Philadelphia to
ascertain what is, or is not possible, relying at least
on a kind reception from you.

He brought me letters from Mr. and Mrs. Church,
which speak handsomely of him. I believe they had
a chief agency in promoting his undertaking.

P. S. — The doctor is a German.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Feb. 25, 1796.

Sir:

The evening I had last the pleasure of seeing you,
you asked my opinion whether any and what meas-
ures might be taken with the Senate with reference
to the treaty with Great Britain, in the event of its
not arriving before the adjournment of the Legis-
lature.

I mentioned as a hasty thought, that I feared it
would be impossible to detain them long in expecta-
tion of a treaty not arrived, but that it might be
advisable, immediately after the adjournment, to
notify another meeting, as little distant as might be
compatible with reasonable time of notice.

144 Alexander Hamilton

On reflection this opinion appears to me not to be
well founded as to the last point. I fear the first
part will be found true, and that the body would not
upon casualty remain many days together after the
expiration of the session.

In place of the course which I at first mentioned
I submit the following:

'' That the Secretary of State write a letter to each
member present and absent, announcing the expec-
tation of the treaty, and that, when arrived, the
Senate will be convened by a proclamation for a time
not exceeding six weeks."

The letter of the Secretary of State to be sent by
land, and by water also, to the most remote mem-
bers, and when the proclamation for convening the
Senate issues, the same be done, upon special ex-
presses for the land conveyance, and having ready
some swift-sailing vessel for the water conveyance.

With these precautions, I think six weeks' notice
will be enough.

The President cannot specially convene the Sen-
ate without announcing that an extraordinary occa-
sion exists. He had, when I left Philadelphia, no
such advice of the treaty as would warrant the as-
sertion, and even if he had, until it arrives there is
a possibility of a miscarriage, which might prevent
his having it ready to lay before the Senate at the
time of meeting, if they should be convened upon
contingency. These reflections have led to the
change of opinion.

Private Correspondence 145

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

March, 1796.

Dear Sir:

Enclosed are tv^o letters which I will thank you
to send on. I have just seen Livingston's motion
concerning instructions,' etc. My first impression
is that the propriety of a compliance with the call,
if made, is extremely doubtful. But much careful
thought on the subject is requisite.

P. S. — I send you also a letter from Mrs. Church to
Mr. Beaumete, which I will thank you to send to Mr.
Talleyrand.''

TO WASHINGTON

New York, March 7, 1796.

Sir:

I found young La Fayette here, and delivered him

your letter, which much relieved him. I fancy you
will see him on the first day of April.

Mr. Livingston's motion in the House of Repre-
sentatives concerning the production of papers, has
attracted much attention. The opinion here of those
who think, is that if the motion succeeds, it ought
not to be complied with. Besides, that in a matter
of such a nature the production of the papers cannot
fail to start new and unpleasant game. It will be
fatal to the negotiating power of the government if

1 This was the demand for papers relating to the Jay treaty which
caused so much discussion, and with which Washington finally decHned
to comply.

2 Reprinted from Administrations of Washington and Adams, i., 310.

VOL. X.— 10.

146 Alexander Hamilton

it is to be a matter of course for a call of either House
of Congress to bring forth all the communications,
however confidential.

It seems to me that some thing like the following
answer by the President will be advisable :

"A right in the House of Representatives to de-
mand and have, as a matter of course, and without
specification of any object, all communications re-
specting negotiations with a foreign power, cannot
be admitted without danger of much inconvenience.
A discretion in the executive department how far and
when to comply in such cases is essential to the due
conduct of foreign negotiations and is essential to
preserve the limits between the legislative and
executive departments. The present call is alto-
gether indefinite, and without any declared purpose.
The Executive has no basis on which to judge of the
propriety of a compliance with it, and cannot, there-
fore, without forming a very dangerous precedent,
comply.

*' It does not occur that the view of the papers
asked for can be relative to any purpose of the com-
petency of the House of Representatives but that
of an impeachment. In every case of a foreign
treaty, the grounds for an impeachment must pri-
marily be deduced from the nature of the instrument
itself, and from nothing extrinsic. If at any time a
treaty should present such grounds, and it shall have
been so pronounced by the House of Representatives
and a further inquiry shall be necessary to ascertain
the culpable person, there being then a declared
and ascertained object, the President would attend

Private Correspondence 147

with due respect to any application for necessary
information."

This is but a hasty and crude outline of what has
struck me as an eligible course. For, while a too
easy compliance will be mischievous, a too per-
emptory and unqualified refusal might be liable to
just criticism.

TO WILLIAM SMITH'

March lo, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I observe Madison brings the power of the House
of Representatives in the case of the treaty into
question. Is the agency of the House of Representa-
tives on the subject deliberative or executive? On the
sophism that the Legislature, and each branch of it,
is essentially deliberative, and consequently must have
discretion, will he, I presume, maintain the freedom
of the House to concur or not.

But the sophism is easily refuted. The Legisla-
ture, and each branch of it, is deliberative, but with
various restrictions; not with unlimited discretion.
All the injunctions and restrictions of the Constitu-
tion, for instance, abridge its deliberative faculty,
and leave it quoad hoc, merely executive. Thus the
constitution enjoins that there shall be a fixed allow-
ance for the judges, which shall not be diminished.
The Legislature cannot, therefore, deliberate whether
they will make a permanent provision, and when the
allowance is fixed, they cannot deliberate whether
they will appropriate and pay the money. So far

' William Smith, Member of Congress from South Carolina.

148 Alexander Hamilton

their deliberative faculty is abridged. The mode of
raising and appropriating the money only remains
matter of deliberation.

So, likewise, the constitution says that the Presi-
dent and Senate shall make treaties, and that these
treaties shall be supreme laws. It is a contradiction
to call a thing a law which is not binding. It fol-
lows that by constitutional injunction the House of
Representatives quoad the stipulations of treaties,
as in the case cited, respecting the judges, are not
deliberative, but merely executive, except as to the
means of executing.

Any other doctrine would vest the Legislature and
each House with unlimited discretion, and destroy
the very idea of a constitution limiting its discretion.
The constitution would at once vanish.

Besides, the legal power to refuse the execution of
a law is a power to repeal it. Thus, the House of
Representatives must, as to treaties, concentre in
itself the whole legislative power, and undertake,
without the Senate, to repeal a law. For the law is
complete by the action of the President and Senate.

Again. A treaty, which is a contract between
nation and nation, abridges even the legislative dis-
cretion of the whole Legislature by the moral obliga-
tion of keeping its faith ; a fortiori, that of one branch.
In theory, there is no method by which the obliga-
tions of a treaty can be annulled but by mutual
consent of the contracting parties, by ill-faith in one
of them, or by a revolution of government, which is
of a nature so to change the condition of parties as
to render the treaty inapplicable.

Private Correspondence 149

TO RUFUS KING

New York, March i6, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

I thank you for your letter of the . My

opinion on the resolution when it first appeared was
that the President should answer in substance as
follows, viz.:

'' That it could not be admitted as a right of course
in the House of Representatives to call for and have
papers in the Executive department, especially those
relating to foreign negotiations, which frequently
embrace confidential matters. That, under all the
circumstances, upon so indefinite a call, without any
declared specific object, he did not think it proper
nor consistent with what he owed to a due separation
of the respective powers to comply with the call.
That if, in the course of the proceedings of the
House, a question of their competency should arise,
for which any of the papers in question might be
necessary, an application made on that groimd
would be considered with proper respect," etc.

But after what has taken place in the discussion, if
it can with propriety be got in as to form, I think a
stand ought to be made by the President against the
usurpation. The following propositions comprise an
obvious ground.

I. — The Constitution empowers the President, ^ ,!^f^
with the Senate, to make treaties.

II. — A treaty is a perfected compact between two
nations, obligatory on both.

III. — That cannot be a perfect contract or treaty
to the validity of which the concurrence of any other

hiC^f

150 Alexander Hamilton

power in the State is constitutionally necessary.
Again :

IV. — The Constitution says a treaty is a law.

V. — A law is an obligatory rule of action pre-
scribed by the competent authority. But —

VI. — That cannot be such a rule of action, or law,
to the validity of which the assent of any other
person is requisite. Again :

VII. — The object of the legislative power is to pre-
scribe a rule of action for our own nation, which
includes foreigners coming among us.

VIII. — The object of the treaty power is, by
agreement, to settle a rule of action between two
nations, binding on both.

IX. — These objects are essentially different and,
in a constitutional sense, cannot interfere.

X. — The treaty power binding the will of the
nation, must, within its constitutional limits, be
paramount to the legislative power, which is that
will; or, at least, the last law being a treaty must
repeal an antecedent contrary law. And,

XL — If the legislative power is competent to re-
peal this law by a subsequent law, this must be the
whole legislative power, by a solemn act in the forms
of the Constitution, not one branch of the legislative
power by disobeying the law.

XII. — The foregoing construction reconciles the
two powers, and assigns them distinguishable spheres
of action; while

XIII. — The other construction, that claiming that
a right of assent is a sanction for the House of
Representatives, destroys the treaty, making power-

Private Correspondence 151

less and negative two propositions in the Constitu-
tion, to wit: I. That the President, with the Senate,
is competent to make treaties. 2. That a treaty is
a law.

On these grounds, with the President's name a
bulwark not to be shaken is erected. The propo-
sitions, in my opinion, amount to irresistible demon-
stration.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, March 24, 1796.

Sir:

I had the honor to receive yesterday your letter of
the 2 2d. The course you suggest has some obvious
advantages, and merits careful consideration. I am
not, however, without fear that there are things in
the instructions to Mr. Jay — which good policy, con-
sidering the matter externally as well as internally ^
would render it inexpedient to communicate. This
I shall ascertain to-day. A middle course is under
consideration — that of not communicating the papers
to the House, but of declaring that the Secretary of
State is directed to permit them to be read by the
members individually. But this is liable to a great
part of the objections which militate against a full
public disclosure. I throw it out, however, here,
that you may be thinking of it, if it has not before
occurred. In the course of this day, I shall endeavor
to concentre my ideas, and prepare some thing, the
premises of which may be in any event proper,
admitting of the conclusion being modified and
adapted to your eventual determination.

152 Alexander Hamilton

TO WASHINGTON

March 26, 1796.

Sir:

I perceive by the newspaper that the resolution has
been carried. I have not been idle as far as my
situation would permit, but it will not be in my
power, as I had hoped, to send you what I am pre-
paring by this day's post; the next will carry it.
It does not, however, appear necessary that the
Executive should be in a hurry.

The final result, in my mind, for reasons I shall
submit in my next, is that the papers ought all to
be refused. I am persuaded that the communication
of the instructions in particular would do harm to the
President and to the government.

TO WASHINGTON

March 28, 1796.

Sir:

I am mortified at not being able to send you
by this post a certain draft. But the opinion that
reasons ought to be given, and pretty fairly, has
extended it to considerable length and a desire to
make it accurate as to idea and expression keeps it
still upon the anvil. But it is so far prepared that
I can assure it by to-morrow's post. Delay is always
unpleasant. But the case is delicate and important
enough to justify it.

I mentioned as my opinion, that the instructions to
Mr. Jay, if published, would do harm. The truth,
unfortunately, is that it is in general a crude mass,
which will do no credit to the administration. This

Private Correspondence 153

was my impression of it at the time, but the deHcacy
of attempting too much reformation in the work of
another head of department, the hurry of the mo-
ment, and a great confidence in the person to be sent,
prevented my attempting that reformation.

There are several particular points in it which
would have a very ill effect to be published.

I. — There is a part which seems to admit the idea
that an adjustment might be made respecting the
spoliations which should leave that matter finally to
the ordinary course of the British courts. This is
obscurely and ambiguously expressed, but the least
color for such a construction would give occasion for
infinite clamor.

II. — The negotiator is expressly instructed to ac-
cede to the entire abolition of alienism as to inheri-
tances of land. You have seen what clamor has been
made about the moderate modification of this idea
in the treaty, and can thence judge what a load
would fall on this part of the instructions.

III. — He is instructed to enter into an article
against the employment of privateers in war. This
is manifestly against the policy of a cotmtry which
has no navy in a treaty with a country which has a
large navy. For it is chiefly by privateers that we
could annoy the trade of Great Britain. Some would
consider this as a philosophic whim; others as an
intentional sacrifice of the interests of this coimtry
to Great Britain.

IV. — There are several parts which hold up the dis-
reputable and disorganizing idea of not being able
to restrain our own citizens.

154 Alexander Hamilton

V. — There are parts the publication of which,
though proper to our own agent, would be a viola-
tion of decorum towards Great Britain, after an
amicable termination of the affair, and offensive be-
cause contrary to the rules of friendly and respectful
procedure.

VI. — The instructions have too little point (in the
spirit of the framer, who was in the habit of saying
much and saying little), and would be censured as
altogether deficient in firmness and spirit.

On the whole, I have no doubt that the publication
of these instructions would do harm to the Executive,
and to the character and interest of the government.

The draft will be so prepared as to admit of this
conclusion.

If the President concludes to send papers, they
ought only to be the commissions y and Mr. Jay's
correspondence, saying that these are all that it ap-
pears to him for the public interest to send.

But he may be then prepared for as much clamor
as if he had sent none. It would be said that what
was done showed that the principle had not been the
obstacle — and that the instructions were withheld
because they would not bea.r the light. Or, at most,
only that part of the instructions should go which
begins at these words, ''4. This enumeration pre-
sents, generally, the objects which it is desirable to
comprise in a commercial treaty," etc., to the end of
the instructions.

But after the fullest reflection I have been able to
give the subject (though I perceive serious degrees of
inconveniencies in the course), I entertain a final

Private Correspondence 155

opinion that it will be best, after the usurpation
attempted by the House of Representatives, to send
none, and to resist in totality.

TO WASHINGTON

March 29, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I wish the enclosed ' could have been sent in a more
perfect state. But it was impossible. I hope, how-
ever, it can be made out and may be useful. It
required some time to say all that was proper in a
more condensed form. In considering the course to
be pursued by the President, it may be well he should
be reminded, that the same description of men who
call for the papers have heretofore maintained, that
they were not bound by any communication in con-
fidence, but were free afterwards to do as they
pleased with papers sent themi.''

TO WASHINGTON

New York, April 2, 1796.

Sir:

The express is this morning gone off with your
letter to young La Fayette. I foresaw when in
Philadelphia a certain machination on the subject.

I rejoice at the decision you have come to in regard
to the papers. Whatever may happen, it is right
in itself, will elevate the character of the President,

1 Draft of an answer to the request of the House of Representatives
for papers. See above, vol. viii., p. i6i.

2 Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vi., 377.

156 Alexander Hamilton

and inspire confidence abroad. The contrary woiild
have encouraged a spirit of usurpation, the bounds
of which could not be foreseen.

If there is time, I should like to have back the
paper lately sent to correct, prune, guard, and
strengthen — I have no copy. But of the expediency
of this the circumstances on the spot will decide.
There is great fitness in the message to the House. I
see only one point the least vulnerable, the too direct
notice of the debate in the House — which may be
attacked as contrary to parliamentary usage. I hear

the criticism here among the L s.' But this

cannot be very material.

TO RUFUS KING

April 2, 1796.

Thank you for yours of yesterday. I have no copy
of the paper sent: the greatest part went in the
original draft, though considerably reformed accord-
ing to joint ideas, and somewhat strengthened by
new thoughts. A letter I have received tells me
that it came to hand after the ground which was
acted upon had been formally considered and taken
in council, and that it is referred for future use in the
event of an expected criticism of the message.

I have asked for it conditionally, to prune, correct,
etc. If I get it you shall have a copy. But you
must take care that there is no crossing of paths.

' Livingstons.

Private Correspondence 157

TO WASHINGTON

New York, April 9, 1796.

Sir:

It gives me great pleastire to have the opporttinity
of announcing to you one whom I know to be in-
teresting to you as a bearer (f this — Mr. Motier La
Fayette. I allow myself to ii'iare, by anticipation,
the satisfaction which the meeting will afford to
all parties — the more, as I am persuaded, that time
will confirm the favorable representation I have
made of the person, and justify the interest you take
in him.

I have pleasure, also, in presenting to you Mr.
Frestel, who accompanies him, and who more and
more convinces me that he is entirely worthy of the
charge reposed in him, and every way entitled to
esteem.

TO RUFUS KING

New York, April 15, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

A letter by yesterday's post from our friend Ames,'
informed me that the majority (fifty-seven concur-
ring) had resolved in a private meeting to refuse
appropriation for the treaty. A most important
crisis ensues. Great evils may result, unless good
men play their card well and with promptitude and
decision. For we must seize and carry along with us
the public opinion, and loss of time may be loss of
every thing.

* Fisher Ames, of Massachusetts.

158 Alexander Hamilton

ji.^^

/ ^ \^ \ To me our true plan appears to be the following (I
• 0>^ ' pre-suppose that a certain commtmication has been

\^ made) :

I St. The President ought, immediately after the
House has taken the ground of refusal, to send them
a solemn protest. This protest ought to contain
reasons in detail against the claim of the House in
point of constitutional right, and ought to suggest
summarily, but with solemnity and energy, the
danger to the interest and peace of the country from
the measures of the House, the certainty of a deep
wound to our character with foreign nations, and
essential destruction of their confidence in the gov-
ernment, concluding with an intimation that in such
a state of things he must experience extreme em-
barrassment in proceeding in any pending or future
negotiations which the affairs of the United States
may require, inasmuch as he cannot look for due
confidence from others, nor give them the requisite
expectation that stipulations will be fulfilled on our
part.
/^ A copy of this protest to be sent to the Senate
for their information. The Senate, by resolutions to
express strongly their approbation of his principles,
to assure him of their firm support, and to advise him
to proceed in the execution of the treaty on his part
in the confidence that he will derive from the virtue
•^and good sense of the people, constitutionally exerted,
eventual and effectual support, and may still be the
instrument of preserving the Constitution, the peace,
and the honor of the nation. /

Then the merchants to meet in the city, and

Private Correspondence 159

second by their resolutions the measures of the
President and Senate, further addressing their fellow-
citizens to co-operate with them. Petitions after-
wards to be handed throughout the United States.

The Senate to hold fast, and consent to no ad-
journment till the expiration of the term of service
of the present House, unless provision made.

The President to cause a confidential communi-
cation to be made to the British minister, stating
candidly what has happened, his regrets, his adher-
ence nevertheless to the treaty, his resolution to
persist in the execution, as far as depends on the
Executive, and his hope that the faith of the coun-
try will be eventually preserved.

I prefer that measures should begin with a protest
of the President, as it will be in itself proper, and
there will be more chance of success if the contest
appears to be with him and the Senate auxiliaries
than in the reverse.

But in all this business, celerity, decision, and an
imposing attitude are indispensable. The glory of
the President, the safety of the Constitution — the
greatest interests — depend upon it. Nothing will be
wanting here.. I do not write to the President on
the subject.

An idea has come from Cooper of an intention in
our friends in the House of Representatives to resist
the execution of the other treaties — the Spanish and
Algerine — unless coupled with the British. But this
will be altogether wrong and impolitic. The mis-
conduct of the other party cannot justify in us an
imitation of their principles. 'T is best, I think, that

i6o Alexander Hamilton

the first course should be given to the other treaties.
Or at most, if a feint of opposition is deemed advis-
able, it ought to be left to the Senate by postpone-
ment, etc. But even this is very delicate and very
questionable.

Let us be right, because to do right is intrinsically
proper, and I verily believe it is the best means of
securing final success. Let our adversaries have the
whole glory of sacrificing the interests of the nation.

P. S. — If the treaty is not executed, the President
will be called upon, by regard to his character and
the public good, to keep his post till another House
of Representatives has pronounced.

TO RUFUS KING

New York, April i8, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your letter received to-day. Our
I merchants here are not less alarmed than those of
''(Philadelphia, and will do all they can. All the in-
surance people meet to-day. The merchants and
traders will meet to-morrow or the next day. A
petition will.be prepared and circulated among the
other citizens.

I regret that a certain communication was not
|^^,\ made. Indeed, I think that the Executive will be
hereafter blamed for keeping back the fact in so
critical a posture of things.

Private Correspondence i6i

TO RUFUS KING

April 20, 1796.

Dear Sir:

Yesterday's post brought me a letter from you,
which gave me pleasure. The papers will apprise
you of the proceedings of the merchants and traders
here on yesterday. There is among them, also,
'' w;^exampled unanimity," and, as far as I can
judge, the current is in our favor throughout the
city. Persons to-day are going through the different
wards.

P. S. — Our friends in the House will do well to gain
time.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, April 20, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the eighteenth in-
stant. The money paid me for you shall be placed
to your credit in the office of discoimt and deposit,
as you desire.

The British ministry are as great fools or as great ' ,

rascals as our Jacobins, else our commerce would not ^^^'}L
continue to be distressed as it is by their cruisers;
nor would the Executive be embarrassed as it now
n is by the new proposition. \

Not knowing the precise form of that proposition,
I cannot have an opinion what is right on the part
of the Executive. But, if I understand it, it ought to
be sufficient for the Executive to declare that the
article in the treaty with the Indians can never

VOL. X.— H.

[^^

162 Alexander Hamilton

operate, nor will be permitted to operate, in contra-
vention with the treaty of Great Britain. It relates
to a right reserved for our benefit, which we can and
will waive; and, being in a treaty of subsequent
date, it naturally gives way to another of prior date,
with which it is consistent. The Executive ought to
be careful about admitting the propriety of a new
condition, though it ought to be ready to give all due
satisfaction. It should not even shun a new ex-
planatory article, if reasonable in itself, but should
agree to it upon the strength of its own reasonable-
ness, not as a new condition foreign to the treaty.
This affair requires great caution; but, as I said, I
do not know enough to give advice worth much.

Yet the government must take care not to appear
pusillanimous. I hope a very serious remonstrance
has long since gone against the wanton impressment
of our seamen. It will be an error to be too tame
with this overbearing Cabinet.

Our city is in motion against the plan of the
majority in the House of Representatives with regard
to the treaty. The current appears to be strong
with us. The papers will tell you the measures in
contemplation.

But I was sorry to learn that a proper qualified
communication was made to the House of Repre-
sentatives of the late communication from the
British agent. The Executive may hereafter be
blamed for withholding so important a fact; yet, not
knowing the whole affair, I cannot judge well on this
point more than on the other.

Private Correspondence 163

TO RUFUS KING

April 23, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I have received your two letters, and shall this day
attend to the one which requires it. I see, however,
no objection to it as it stands, and I do not now per-
ceive how the further object you aim at could be
accomplished in the manner you seem to desire.

I have written to Ames this day concerning the
course of things in our city. He will communicate to
you, as I have not time to repeat. We are decidedly
well. But it is intended to-day to continue the
petition in circulation, and to-morrow it will be sent.
I have thought it advisable to publish an extract
from your letter without naming you.

TO RUFUS KING

May 4, 1796.

Dear Sir:

Since my last I have received two or three letters
from you. The late turn of the treaty question makes
us all very happy. I hope no future embarrassment
will arise.

I am entirely of opinion that, Patrick Henry de-
clining, Mr. Pinckney ^ ought to be our man. It is
even an idea of which I am fond in various lights.
Indeed, on latter reflection, I rather wish to be rid of
Patrick Henry, that we may be at full liberty to take
up Pinckney.

I Thomas Pinckney, of South Carolina. He was Minister to Eng-
land, and had just concluded a treaty with Spain, securing the free
navigation of the Mississippi.

164 Alexander Hamilton

In the event of Pinckney's return to this country, I
am of opinion, all circumstances considered, it is
expedient you should replace him. I hope no great
question will in a short period agitate our councils,
and I am sure you will do much good on the scene in
question. I have called on Jay, but happened not
to find him disengaged. I shall quickly see him, and
shall, with great pleasure, do every thing requisite
on my part.

We believe, confidently, our election in the city
has succeeded ; the other party, however, also claims
success. Our Senator ticket seems admitted on both
sides to have prevailed, and all accounts assure us of
great success throughout the State. The vile affair
of whipping Burke and McCredy made our election,
in the view of the common people, a question be-
tween the rich and the poor. You will easily con-
ceive how much this must have embarrassed and
jeoparded.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

May 10, 1796.

Dear Sir:

Inclosed is a letter which I will thank you to hand
to its destination.

While I have my pen in my hand, give me leave to
mention a particular subject to you. Mr. Pinckney,
it is said, desires to return to the United States. In
this case a successor will be wanted. If we had
power to make a man for the purpose, we could not
imagine a fitter than Mr. King.' He is tired of the

I Rufus King, who was appointed and accepted.

Private Correspondence 165

Senate, and I fear will resign at all events. I pre-
stime he would accept the mission to England. Can
there be a doubt that it will be wise to offer it to
him?^

TO WASHINGTON

New York, May 20, 1796.

Sir:

A belief that the occasion to which they may be
applicable is not likely to occur, whatever may have
been once intended, or pretended in terrorem, has
delayed the following observations in compliance
with your desire, and which are now the result of
conferences with the gentlemen you named.

The precise form of any proposition ox demand

' Now first printed from the Pickering papers in possession of the
Massachusetts Historical Society.

2 "Copied from Writings of Washington. Whether it is an extract
from, or the entire letter, is unknown to the editor." (Note by J. C.
Hamilton.) The paper referred to is the "Farewell Address."
TO WASHINGTON

New York, May lo, 1796.

Sir:

When last in Philadelphia you mentioned to me -vv^/*^
your wish that I should re-dress a certain paper which
you had prepared. As it is important that a thing
of this kind should be done with great care, and
much at leisure, touched and re-touched, I submit a
wish that as soon as you have given it the body you
mean it to have, it may be sent to me. '

1 66 Alexander Hamilton

which may be made to or of the government, must so
materially influence the course proper to be pursued
with regard to such proposition or demand, that it is
very difficult to judge by anticipation what would
be fit and right. The suggestions which can be sub-
mitted must therefore be very general and liable to
much modification, according to circumstances.

It wotild seem in almost any case advisable to put
forward a calm exhibition of the views by which our
government has been influenced in relation to the
present war of Europe, — making prominent the great
interest we have in peace, in our present infant state;
the limitedness of our capacity for external effort;
the much greater injury we should have suffered than
good we could have done to France, by taking an
active part with her ; the probability that she would
have derived more advantage from our neutrality
than from our direct aid; the promptitude with
which, while all the world was combined against her,
we recognized the new order of things and the con-
tinuance of our treaties, and before any other power
had done so; the danger to which we exposed our-
selves in so doing; the fidelity with which we have
adhered to our treaties, notwithstanding formal vio-
lations of certain parts of them on the other side;
our readiness, to the utmost extent of our abilities, to
discharge our debt without hesitation in the earliest
period of the revolution, and latterly having facilitated
an anticipated enjoyment of the balance; the zeal
and confidence of our merchants, by which they are
now creditors for very large sums to France; the
patience with which we have seen infractions of our

Private Correspondence 167

rights ; the pecuHar nature of the war as it regarded
the origin of our relations to France (quare ?) ; the
declaration of the war by France against the mari-
time powers ; her incapacity for maritime effort and
to supply our deficiency in that particular so as to
render a war not absolutely ruinous to us ; the early
expectations given to us by her agents that we were
not expected to become parties ; the exposed state of
our commerce at this time with an immense property
of our merchants afloat, relying on the neutral plan
which they have imderstood our government to be
pursuing, even with the concurrence of France, at
least without its opposition; the extreme mischiefs
to us of a sudden departure from the plan, and the
little advantage to France from our aid; the merely
peace views which influenced our treaty with Great
Britain; the nature of that treaty involved no in-
gredient of political connection reserving the obliga-
tion of our prior treaties; the commercial articles
terminating in two years after the present war; no-
thing in it to change the nature of our relations with
France. All this will, of course, require great caution
and delicacy, so as not to compromise the dignity of
the country or give umbrage elsewhere, and I think
the observations ought to hold out the idea that,
under all the circumstances of the case, the govern-
ment of the coimtry thought itself at full liberty
consistently with its treaties with France, to pursue
a neutral plan. And they ought to hold up strongly
our desire to maintain friendship with France; our
regret that any circumstance of dissatisfaction
should occur; our hope that justice and reason will

1 68 Alexander Hamilton

prevail, and preserve the good understanding, etc.
The conclusion of this preliminary exposition will be
according to the nature of the proposition.

If it should claim a renunciation of the British
treaty, the answer will naturally be that this sacrifice
of the positive and recent engagements of the country
is pregnant with consequences too humiliating and
injurious to allow us to believe that the expectation
can be persisted in by France, since it is to require a
thing impossible, and to establish, as a price of the
continuance of friendship with us, the sacrifice of
our honor by an act of perfidy which would destroy
the value of our friendship to any nation. That,
besides, the Executive, if it were capable of comply-
ing with a demand so fatal to us, is not competent to
it, it being the province of Congress, by a declaration
of war, or otherwise, in the proper cases, to annul the
operation of treaties.

If it should claim the abandonment of the articles
of the present treaty respecting free ships, free goods,
etc., the answer may be that our treaties with France
are an entire work, parts of a whole ; that neverthe-
less the Executive is disposed to enter into a new
negotiation by a new treaty to modify them, so as
may consist with a due regard to mutual interest
and the circumstances of parties, and may even tend
to strengthen the relations of friendship and good
understanding between the two countries.

If the guaranty of the West Indies should be
claimed, the answer may be, ''that the decision of
this question belongs to Congress, who, if it be de-
sired, will be convened to deliberate upon it. " I pre-

Private Correspondence 169

sume and hope they will have adjourned — for to gain
time is every thing.

The foregoing marks the general course of our
reflections. They are sketched hastily, because they
can only be general ideas, and much will depend on
minute circumstances.

I observe what you say on the subject of a certain
diplomatic mission. Permit me to offer with frank-
ness the reflections which have struck my mind.

The importance of our security, and commerce,
and good understanding with Great Britain, renders
it very important that a man able and not disagreeable
to that government, should be there. The gentle-
man in question, equally with any who could go, and
better than any willing to go, answers this descrip-
tion. The idea hinted in your letter will apply to
every man fit for the mission, by his conspicuousness,
talents, and dispositions. 'T is the stalking-horse of
a certain party, and is made use of against every man
who is not in their views and of sufficient consequence
to attract their obloquy. If listened to, it will de-
prive the government of the services of the most able
and faithful agents. Is this expedient? What will
be gained by it? Is it not evident that this party
will pursue its hostility at all events as far as public
opinion will permit? Does policy require any thing
more than that they shall have no real cause to com-
plain? Will it do, in deference to their caliimniating
insinuations, to forbear employing the most compe-
tent men, or to entrust the great business of the
country to imskilful, unfaithful, or doubtful hands? I
really feel a conviction that it will be very dangerous

170 Alexander Hamilton

to let party insinuations of this kind prove a serious
obstacle to the employment of the best qualified
characters. Mr. King is a remarkably well-informed
man, a very judicious one, a man of address, a man
of fortune and economy, whose situation affords just
ground of confidence ; — a man of unimpeached prob-
ity where he is best known, a firm friend to the gov-
ernment, a supporter of the measures of the President
— a man who cannot but feel that he has strong pre-
tensions to confidence and trust.

I might enlarge on these topics, but I have not
leisure, neither can it be necessary. I have thrown
out so much in the fulness of my heart, and too much
in a hurry to fashion either the idea or the expression
as it ought to be. The President, however, will, I
doubt not, receive what I have said — as it is meant,
as dictated by equal regard to the public interest and
to the honorable course of his administration.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

May 30, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I perceive Congress are invading the Sinking Fund
system. If this goes through, and is sanctioned by the
President, the fabric of public credit is prostrate, and
the country and the President are disgraced. Treas-
ury bills, and every expedient, however costly, to
meet exigencies, must be preferable, in the event, to
such an overthrow of system.

Private Correspondence 171

TO JAMES McHENRY '

New York, June i, 1796.

My Dear Mc:

I am told the Executive Directory have com-
plained of Mr. , our consul at . Perhaps

the complaint may be ill-founded, but perhaps
also he was indiscreet in giving color for it. Admit
too that he is a good man, yet we must not quarrel
with France for pins and needles. The public temper
would not bear any iimbrage taken, where a trifling
concession might have averted it. 'T is a case for
temporizing, reserving our firmness for great and

necessary occasions. Let Mr. be superseded

with a kind letter to him. I do not write to Picker-
ing, or the President, because I am not regularly
possessed of the information, but I hope you will
attend to the matter, even at the expense of being a
little officious.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Jirne i, 1796.

Sir:

Your letter of the 29th was delivered me by Mr.
King yesterday afternoon. I thought I had acknow-
ledged the receipt of the paper inquired for in a letter
written speedily after it — or in one which transmitted
you a draft of a certain letter by Mr. Jay. I hope this
came to hand.

I am almost afraid to appear officious in what I am
going to say; but the matter presses so deeply on my

' James McHenry, of Maryland, Secretary of War.

172 Alexander Hamilton

mind, that fearing you may not recollect the situa-
tion of the thing, and that it may happen not to be
brought fully under your eye, I cannot refrain from
making the suggestion to you. It regards a bill
which, I am told, has lately passed the two Houses
of Congress, authorizing a sale of bank stock, for
paying off a sum due to the bank. You will perceive
by the 8th and 9th sections of the act entitled, *'An
Act making further provision for the support of the
public credit," and for the redemption of the public
debt, passed the 3d of March, 1795, ^^^^ "tl^^ dividends
of the bank stock are appropriated to the sinking
fund, with all the force and solemnity of which the
language is capable, and that to divert them in the
manner proposed (and this too without any substi-
tute in the act which so diverts) will be a formal,
express, and unequivocal violation of the public
faith, will subvert the system of the sinking fimd,
and with it all the security which is meant to be
given to the people for the redemption of the public
debt, and, violating the sanctity of an appropriation
for the public debt, will overturn at once the founda-
tion of the public credit. These are obvious and un-
deniable consequences ; and though I am aware that
great embarrassments may ensue to the Treasury if
the bill by the objection of the President is lost,
and no substitute for it takes place towards the
reimbursement of the bank; yet I am sure no
consequences can ensue of equal moment from the
rejection as from the principle of the bill going into
execution.

All the President's administration has effected for

Private Correspondence 173

establishing the credit of the country will be pros-
trate at a single blow. He will readily make all
necessary comments upon this position. It grieves
my heart to see so much shocking levity in our
representative body.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, June 9, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I called at your house the morning of my depart-
ure, but you were not then up. While I was in the
city, we had a little conversation concerning an affair
of an arrangement with Swan ' for effecting a remit-
tance to Holland. I intended to resume it for two
reasons : one, because it has been represented to the
disadvantage of the conduct of the Treasury; an-
other because Swan, who lodged at the same house
with me, begged me to converse with you on the
subject, and give my opinion both to you and him of
what I thought of the matter. The latter I should
of course have managed with due regard to all
prudential considerations.

But I wished chiefly to apprise you that it is in-
dustriously circulated that Monroe and Skip with, as

^ Colonel James Swan, of Boston. He had a most romantic and
adventurous life, beginning as one of the Boston Tea-Party, and a
soldier of the Revolution. In 1787, he went to Paris a bankrupt, where
he speculated successfully, and whence he returned with a fort line in
1795. He went back to Europe in 1798, engaged in still larger enter-
prises, and failed. At the suit of a creditor he was thrown into Ste.
Pelagic in 181 5, and remained there fifteen years, litigating constantly
in French courts. He died in 1831.

174 Alexander Hamilton

agents for the Treasury y received Swan's money at
Paris to remit to Holland, that they mismanaged the
ftind, produced, besides, delay and loss, and that the
Treasury now endeavors to turn the loss on Swan.
If you have not been apprised of this, it is requisite
you should be.'

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

June IS, 1796.

Dear Sir:

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you.
From some recent information which I have ob-
tained here, I have scarcely any doubt that the plan
of the French is —

Firstly, — To take all enemy property in our ships
contrary to the treaty between the two countries.

Secondly. — To seize and carry in all our vessels
laden with provisions for any English port.

Among this, all that they choose to think enemy
property will be seized, and for the residue they wiU
promise to pay.

This state of things is extremely serious. The
government must play a skilful card, or all is lost.
No doubt an explanation has been asked of Mr. Adet.
There is room enough for asking it, and the result,
if explanatory, ought, in some convenient way, to be
made known.

Moreover, the government must immediately set
in earnest about averting the storm. To this end, a
person must be sent in place of Monroe. General

' Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

Private Correspondence 175

Pinckney, John Marshall, Mr. Desaussure, of South
Carolina, young Washington, the lawyer, McHenry,
Secretary at War, Judge Peters, occur as eligible in
different degrees, either of them far preferable to
Monroe. It may be understood that the appoint-
ment is permanent or temporary, at the choice of the
person sent. Under this idea, perhaps Pinckney
may be prevailed upon, perhaps Marshall, it being
well urged as a matter of great importance to the
cotmtry.

I mentioned to Colonel Pickering an idea, which
has since dwelt powerfully on my mind. Mr. King
ought not to be empowered to do any thing to
prolong the treaty beyond the two years after the
war. This will afford the government a strong
argument. I earnestly hope this idea will prevail in
the instructions.

P. S, — After turning the thing over and over in
my mind, I know of nothing better that you have in
your power than to send McHenry. He is not yet
obnoxious to the French, and has been understood
formerly to have had some kindness towards their
revolution. His present office would give a sort of
importance to the mission. If he should incline to
an absolute relinquishment, his mission might be
temporary, and Colonel Pickering could carry on his
office in his absence. He is at hand, and might de-
part immediately, and I believe he would explain
very well, and do no foolish thing. Though unusual,
perhaps it might be expedient for the President to
write, himself, a letter to the Executive Directory,

176 Alexander Hamilton

explaining the policy by which he has been governed,
and assuring of the friendship. But this would
merit great consideration. Our measures, however,
should be prompt.

Sometimes I think of sending Pinckney, who is
in England; but various uncertainties and possible
delays deter one from this plan.

Remember always, as a primary motive of action,
that the favorable opinion of our country is to be
secured.

A frigate or two to serve as convoys would not be
amiss. If the English had been wise, they would
neither have harassed our trade themselves, nor suf-
fered their trade with us to be harassed. They
would see this a happy moment for conciliating us
by a clever little squadron in our ports and on our
coast.

A hint might not perhaps do harm.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

June 16, 1796.

Dear Sir:
) It appears to me material, under our present pro-
spects, to complete three frigates without delay.
They may be useful with reference to the Algerines.
They may be useful to convoy our vessels out of the
reach of picaroon privateers hovering on our coast.
I know you want money; but could not the mer-
chants, by secret movements, be put in motion to
make you a loan? I think some thing of this kind
may be done here, and I should presume at Phila-
delphia, etc. The sole ostensible object may be the

Private Correspondence 177

Algerines, but the second object may circulate in
whispers. If you conclude on any thing, I will
second you.

Perhaps no bad form of the thing may be to place
in the hands of your agents for building, Treasury
bills from one hundred to one thousand dollars, pay-
able in a year with interest ; and to let it be known
among the merchants that they are lodged exclu-
sively to facilitate the equipment of the ships. But
a more direct operation may be attempted, and I
should hope with success, for the sum you may
want for the frigates.

TO WASHINGTON

Jime, 1796.

Sir:

I have received information this morning of a na-
ture which, I think, you ought to receive without
delay. A Mr. Le Guen,' a Frenchman — a client of
mine, and in whom I have inspired confidence, and
who is apparently a discreet and decent man — called
on me this morning to consult me on the expediency
of his becoming naturalized, in order that certain
events between France and the United States might
not prejudice him in a suit which I am directed to
bring for him for a value of 160,000 dollars. I asked

^ Louis Le Guen brought suit to recover money for goods sold by his
factors, a Jewish house in New York. The first verdict was for the
factors and was set aside. The verdict on the new trial was for
Le Guen for $120,000, and this was affirmed in the Court of Errors
(February, 1800) after a great argument by Hamilton. The case was
a famous one. Gouvemeur Morris appeared for the factors and Burr
was associated with Hamilton.

VOL. X.— 12.

178 Alexander Hamilton

him what the events to which he alluded were. He
made me the following reply under the strictest in-
junctions of confidence : '* I have seen a letter from St.
Thomas to Mr. Labagarde of this city, informing him
that a plan was adopted to seize all American vessels
carrying to any English port provisions of any kind,
to conduct them into some French port ; if found to
be British property, to condemn them; if American,
to take them on the accountability of the government ;
adding that he must not thence infer that it was the
intention to make war upon the United States, but
it was with a view to retaliate the conduct of Great
Britain, to keep supplies from her, and to obtain
them for themselves, and was also bottomed on
some political motives not necessary to be explained. "
"That it was also in contemplation when Admiral
Richery arrived, if the ships could be spared, to send
five sail of the line to this country." Fearing, he
said, that this might produce a rupture between the
two countries, he had called to consult me on the
subject, etc.

I asked his permission to make the communica-
tion to you. He gave me leave to do it, but with
the absolute condition that the knowledge of names
was on no account to go beyond you and myself. I
must therefore request, sir, that this condition be
exactly observed. He has promised me further in-
formation.

I believe the information, as well because the
source of it under all the circumstances engages my
confidence, as because the thing appears in itself
probable. France wants supplies, and she has not

Private Correspondence 179

the means of paying, and our merchants have done
crediting.

It becomes very material that the real situation
should as soon as possible be ascertained, and that
the merchants should know on what they have to
depend. They expect that the government will ask
an explanation of Mr. Adet, and that in some proper
way the result will be made known.

It seems to become more and more urgent that the
United States should have some faithful organ near
the French government to explain their real views
and ascertain those of the French. It is all important
that the people should be satisfied that the govern-
ment has made every exertion to avert a rupture, and
as early as possible.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

June 26, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I learn from a gentleman of character, that a prize,
brought into Boston by a French privateer, is about
to be sold. This being in direct breach of our treaty
with Great Britain, how does it happen? Though
no particular law passed, the treaty being the law of
the land, our custom-houses can, and ought to, pre-
vent the entry and sale of prizes, upon Executive in-
struction. If any thing is wanting to this end, for
God's sake, my dear sir, let it be done, and let us not
be disgraced.
R ^/ Considering what is going on, and may go on, in
the West Indies, it appears to me essential that the

i8o Alexander Hamilton

President should be empowered to lay embargoes in
the interval between the present and the next ses-
sion of Congress.

TO WASHINGTON

Jtily s, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I was in due time favored with your letter of the
26th June, and consulted the gentleman you named
on the subject of it. We are both of opinion there is
no power in the President to appoint an envoy ex-
traordinary, without the concurrence of the Senate,
and that the information in question is not a suffi-
cient ground for extraordinary convening the Senate.
If, however, the President from his information col-
lectively be convinced that a dangerous state of
things exists between us and France, and that an
envoy extraordinary to avert the danger is a neces-
sary measure, I believe this would, in the sense of the
Constitution, warrant the calling of the Senate for the
purpose. But this measure may be questionable in
point of expediency, as giving a stronger appearance
of danger than facts warrant. If further depreda-
tions on our commerce take place, if new revivals of
the principle of the last capture should appear, it
may alter the case. But without some thing more
the measure would scarcely seem advisable. Mr.
Jay and myself, though somewhat out of your ques-
tion, talked of the expediency of removing Monroe,
and though we perceive there are weighty reasons
against it, we think those for it preponderate, if a
proper man can be found. But here we feel, both

Private Correspondence i8i

immense embarrassment, for he ought to be at the
same time a friend to the government and understood
to be not unfriendly to the French Revolution.
General Pinckney is the only man we can think of
who fully satisfies the idea, and unfortunately every
past experiment forbids the hope that he would ac-
cept, though but for a short time. But if a character
of tolerable fitness can be thought of, it would seem
expedient to send him. At any rate, it is to be
feared, if under the symptoms of discontent which
have appeared on the part of the French govern-
ment, no actual and full explanation takes place, it
will bring serious censure upon the Executive. It
will be said that it did not display as much zeal to
avoid misunderstanding with France as with Great
Britain; that discontents were left to rankle; that
if the agent of the government in France was negli-
gent or unfaithful, some other mode ought to have
been found.

As to your resignation, sir, it is not to be regretted
that the declaration of your intention should be sus-
pended as long as possible, and suffer me to add that
you should really hold the thing undecided to the
last moment. I do not think it is in the power of
party to throw any slur upon the lateness of your
declaration. And you have an obvious justification
in the state of things. If a storm gathers, how can
you retreat? This is a most serious question. The
proper period now for your declaration seems to be
two months before the time for the meeting of the
electors. This will be sufficient. The parties will
in the meantime electioneer conditionally, that is to

1 82 Alexander Hamilton

say, if you decline; for a serious opposition to you
will, I think, hardly be risked. I have completed the
first draft (his own draft) of a certain paper, and
shall shortly transcribe, correct, and forward it. I
will then also prepare and send forward, without
delay, the original paper (Washington's draft), cor-
rected upon the general plan of it, so that you may
have both before you for a choice in full time, and
for alteration if necessary.^

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

Jtdy 7, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I have had some conversation with some influen-
tial members of the Bank of New York, who are dis-
posed to do all that shall be found possible. But I
wish to know without exaggeration the least sum
that will be a material relief to you, and when and
how the payments will be desired.^

TO ELIAS BOUDINOT

July 7, 1796.

My Dear Sir:

You will oblige me by letting me have an extract
from that part of your mortgage law in New Jei;sey
which regulates the mode of cancelling mortgages;
also an extract from the registering book of the
usual manner in which entries for cancelling were
made about the years 1771, 1772, and 1773, and by

' Reprinted from the History of the Republic, ii., 468, 522.
2 Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

Private Correspondence 183

inforraing me whether these entries have been ad-
judged conclusive — though the order or certificate
of the mortgage is not to be found, the mortgage
money not paid, and the fact should appear that the
entry was a fraudulent act of the registering officer.

Excuse the trouble I give you, and use me freely
in a like case.

How are your election prospects? Do not let the
discontent with Dayton ' hazard the main point. 'T
is better by a coalition with him to secure that, though
you make some sacrifice of opinion, than to produce
a dangerous schism.

Our affairs are critical, and we must be dispassion-
ate and v/ise.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

July IS, 1796.

Dear Sir:

The application for a loan from the Bank of New
York, though powerfully supported by some of the
leading directors, labors, owing to the jealousy and
narrowness of certain ones, who see in it a plan to
increase the active capital of the Branch Bank, and
put them in its power. Unluckily, the President
suddenly went off to Rhode Island with his wife and
some sick children. I pursue the affair, and I hope
still to accomplish it.

There will be no difficulty in obtaining a postpone-
ment of the existing loan. But this I tell them will
not be sufficient.''

^ Jonathan Dayton, of New Jersey,

2 Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

184 Alexander Hamilton

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

July 21, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I communicated your letter to Mr. Jay, and now
give you our joint sense.

Considering the nature of the transaction and
what must necessarily have been presumed to be
the intent, and that the authority is on a public sub-
ject, and between two nations, we think that a de-
cision by two out of three commissioners must be
sufficient.

We know nothing but an immediate personal in-
terest in property which may be affected by the
decision, that can be a conclusive objection to the
person nominated — but this interest must be known,
not suspected. The rest must be matter of nego-
tiation. In point of property, neither government
ought to name a person liable from local situation to
the suspicion of particular interest or bias. But one
cannot formally object to the nomination of the other
on this general gro\md.

Declarations like those ascribed to Mr. Barkely,
if well authenticated and unequivocal, importing
clearly that he thought himself at liberty to gain
advantages, and bound not to act impartially, would
justify the government in stopping, and represent-
ing the matter to the British Government. But we
ought to act with great caution not to give occasion
to impute to us a spirit of procrastination or subter-
fuge. 'T is so much more important that the dis-
pute should be settled than how it is settled (at least
according to my idea of the object) ; that we should

Private Correspondence 185

by no means seek for difficulties, but rather facilitate
than impede.'

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

July 28, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I have not lost sight of the negotiation with the
bank, though it labors, and I have thought it best
to let it lie by till the President returns. Mr. Mc-
Cormick is violent against it, and plays on little
jealousies and, what is still more efficacious, private
interests, representing the consequent inability of
the bank to accommodate the merchants, many of
whom, from the tmfortunate issue of some recent
speculations, are likely to want much aid,""

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

July 30, 1796.

Dear Sir:

1 have written you a short line previous to the
receipt of your letter of the 26th, to which, indeed, I
can add nothing material.

It will, as things stand, be imprudent to push the
point of a further loan till the President arrives —
for, though a majority of the directors are well dis-
posed to the thing, they are afraid of Mr. McCor-
mick's clamors and want the sanction of the President
to control and counterbalance him. All, I am told,

^ Now first printed from the Pickering papers in the possession of the
Massachusetts Historical Society.

2 Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

1 86 Alexander Hamilton

that can now be relied upon, is a postponement of
the payment of the 200,000 dollars heretofore lent,
to which Mr. McCormick assents.^

TO WASHINGTON

New York, July 30, 1796.

Sir:

I have the pleasure to send you herewith a certain
draft which I have endeavored to make as perfect
as my time and engagements would permit. It has
been my object to render this act importantly and
lastingly useful, and, avoiding all just cause of
present exception, to embrace such reflections and
sentiments as will wear well, progress in approbation
with time, and redound to future reputation. How
far I have succeeded, you will judge. I have begun
the second part of the task — the digesting of the
supplementary remarks to the first address, — which,
in a fortnight, I hope also to send you; yet I con-
fess the more I have considered the matter, the less
eligible this plan has appeared to me. There seems
to me to be a certain awkwardness in the thing, and
it seems to imply that there is a doubt whether the
assurance without the evidence would be believed.
Besides that, I think that there are some ideas which
will not wear well in the former address, and I do
not see how any part can be omitted, if it is to be
given as the thing formerly prepared. Nevertheless,

^ Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society. This letter, and those preceding on
the same subject, give a curious idea of the conduct of the government
and the scale of financial dealings in 1796 as compared with those of
to-day.

Private Correspondence 187

when you have both before you, you can judge. If
you should incline to take the draft now sent, and
after perusing and noting any thing that you wish
changed, will send it to me, I will, with pleasure,
shape it as you desire. This may also put it in my
power to improve the expression, and perhaps, in
some instances, condense. I rejoice that certain
clouds have not lately thickened, and that there is a
prospect of a brighter horizon.*

TO GREENLEAF ^

New York, July 30, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I have carefully reflected upon the subject of your
letter of the 27th instant.

Though the data which it presents authorize an
expectation of large pecuniary advantage, and
though I discern nothing in the affair which an in-
dividual differently circumstanced might not with
propriety enter into, yet, in my peculiar situation,
viewed in all its public, as well as personal relations,
I think myself boimd to decline the overture.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

August 3, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the ist. I deplore
the picture it gives, and henceforth wish to forget

^ Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vi., 523.

2 Greenleaf described himself as worth five millions, and in debt
for twelve hundred thousand dollars. He offered, if Hamilton would
help him, and lend him his name, to give a third of his property, and
make him his partner in a banking-house.

1 88 Alexander Hamilton

there is a bank or a treasury in the United States,
though I shall not forget my regard to individuals.

I do not see one argument in any possible shape
of the thing, for the sale of bank stock, or against
that of the other stock, which does not apply vice
versa, and I shall consider it as one of the most in-
fatuated steps that ever was adopted.

It will be known on Thursday whether any thing
is to be expected here.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

August 5, 1796.

Dear Sir:

The Bank of New York is willing to make the loan
of 324,000 dollars to you (I mean the exact sum of
about this amount, if you desire it, which one of the
laws you mention authorizes to borrow), on these
terms: to advance all but 200,000 dollars when you
please to advance the 200,000 dollars, by way of re-
loan, when that sum, payable in October, becomes
due. The term of credit to be, in each case, six
months from the time of the advance. The interest,
six per cent., with a deposit of stock (6 per cent.) at
par, so placed as to permit the sale of it at the market
price, if there be a failure of reimbursement at the
stipulated periods. The treasury, upon honor, to
draw immediately upon the bank as the money is
wanted for expenditure, not to transfer it before-
hand. On this point, sincerity and delicacy will be
expected.

It was mentioned, too, as desirable, though not

Private Correspondence 189

made a condition, that it should be understood that
in case a real pressing emergency in the course of the
winter should exist, the bank, on giving previous
notice of the necessity to the Treasury might be at
liberty to sell the stock at the then market price.
The directors to be, upon honor, not to use this per-
mission but in case of real necessity. Their honor,
I know, may be entirely relied upon, and it may be
well to gratify.

The deposit of stock was suggested by myself,
upon your first letter. It is an ingredient in the
negotiation which the bank values. '

The bank wishes a speedy decision.

TO WASHINGTON

August 10, 1796.

Sir:

About a fortnight ago I sent you a certain draft.
I now send you another on the plan of incorporation.
Whichever you may prefer, if there be any part you
wish to transfer from one to another, any part to be
changed, or if there be any material idea in your
own draft which has happened to be omitted, and
which you wish introduced, in short, if there be any
thing further in the matter in which I can be of any
(service), I will, with great pleasure, obey your
comxmands.''

1 Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

2 Reprinted from the History of the Republic, Vi., 523. This letter,
and those which follow, all relate to the preparation of the farewell
address which was published September 17, 1796.

iQO Alexander Hamilton

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Sept. 4, 1796.

Sir:

I have received your two late letters, the last but
one transmitting me a certain draft. It will be cor-
rected and altered with attention to your suggestions,
and returned by Monday's or Tuesday's post. The
idea of the University is one of those which, I think,
will be properly reserved for your speech at the open-
ing of the session. A general suggestion respecting
education will very fitly come into the address.'

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Sept. 4, 1796.

Sir:

I return the draft, corrected agreeably to your
intimations. You will observe a short paragraph
added respecting education. As to the establish-
ment of a university, it is a point which, in connec-
tion with the military schools, and some other things,
I meant, agreeably to your desire, to suggest to you
as parts of your speech at the opening of the session.
There will several things come there much better
than in a general address to the people, which like-
wise would swell the address too much. Had I
health enough, it was my intention to have written
it over, in which case I would both have improved
and abridged. But this is not the case. I seem
now to have regularly a period of ill health every
summer. I think it will be advisable simply to send

' Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vi., 529.

Private Correspondence 191

the address by your secretary to Dunlap. It will,
of course, find its way into all the other papers.
Some person on the spot ought to be charged with a
careful examination of the impression by the proof-
sheet.'

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Sept. 8, 1796.

Sir:

I have received your letter of the 6th by the bearer.
The draft was sent forward by the post on Tuesday.

I shall prepare a paragraph with respect to the
University and some others for consideration re-
specting other points which have occurred.^

TO PHINEAS BOND

New York, Sept. 15, 1796.

Sir:

Two days since a letter was delivered to me with
a declaration of the bearer that it came from Mr.
Lyston.^ On opening the cover I found nothing ex-
cept a letter from Captain Cochran (which, though
not addressed, would appear to have been written
to some public agent of Great Britain) and a de-
claration of David Wilson and Thomas Marshall re-
specting the ship Eliza. The superscription of the
packet resembling your handwriting, I concluded
that it might have come from you, and that by some

' Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vi., 530.
a Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vi., 531.
3 The British minister.

192 Alexander Hamilton

mistake the letter you had written me had been
omitted, and that on discovery of omission it would
have been foi*warded by another opportunity. Find-
ing after two days' waiting that the expectation has
not been realized, I have determined to write to you
on the subject.

Mr. Charles Wilkes had previously applied to me
concerning this affair, and had submitted to my
consideration various papers. The result was that
I discouraged a judicial prosecution. My reasons
are these:

Taking it to be true, as stated, that Captain Huffey
brought from the shore within our territory persons
who, by force, aided him to rescue the captured ves-
sel, I am of opinion that this circumstance would give
jurisdiction of the case to our courts on the applica-
tion of the capturing party.

But when on such application any of our courts
should hold jurisdiction, it would in my judgment
go into the merits and examine the validity of the
capture.

Here these facts occur: that the Eliza, being a
transport vessel in the service of Great Britain, was
captured by a French privateer fitted out of some
port of France by Barney, an American citizen, in
quality of armateur — Levelle, probably a French-
man, captain by commission, and was afterwards
condemned as prize by the sentence of a Court of
Admiralty at Dunkirk; and, as far as the direct
proof goes, purchased in virtue of that sentence by
an American citizen.

It is conjectured that two thirds of the vessel

Private Correspondence 193

may have belonged to a French house — Messrs. De
Baques — because it appears that Huifey paid tv^o
thirds of the purchase-money in a bill drawn by that
house. But this is evidently a mere circumstance of
suspicion, and wholly inconclusive. Why may not
the De Baques have been factors or agents for
Huffey? Why may not Huffey have purchased
their draft towards the payment ? One or the other
of the two latter suppositions would no doubt pre-
vail with the court if there was no collateral proof to
the contrary.

It is also conjectured that the Eliza may have
continued the property of Barney, but all the docu-
ments now in the power of the captor speak a con-
trary language. This suspicion, then, however just
it may be in fact, cannot be supported.

The question then is, would the equipment of the
privateer by Barney be sufficient to invalidate the
purchase by a neutral citizen under the sentence of
a court of the capturing power?

No opinion of any theoretic writer, nor, as I be-
lieve, any usage of any nation, nor the decisions of
courts of admiralty, will authorize, in my judgment,
an affirmative answer to that question.

If Mr. Barney comes within the 21st article of our
treaty with Great Britain, it would make him liable,
if taken by Great Britain, to be punished as a pirate.
But it will be observed that the stipulation would
not oblige the United States to treat him as such.
And the article being confined to personal punish-
ment, may be supposed not to contemplate the con-
fiscation of property captured by such a person.

VOL. X.— 13.

194 Alexander Hamilton

But it would be to go an unheard-of length to pro-
nounce null the prize made under such circumstances
by a vessel fitted out of the ports of the belligerent
power, and regularly commissioned, and after a sen-
tence of condemnation.

Therefore, and as the property in question is of
little value, and as smart damages would be likely to
attend a failure of the prosecution, I advised against
it, as I now still do.

Yet, if Captain Cochran, or any person acting on
his behalf, shall desire the experiment to he made, how-
ever unpromising in my view, I shall esteem it a
professional duty, and due to justice to a foreign
power, to put the affair in a course of judicial in-
vestigation.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, Sept. 21, 1796.

Dear Sir:

Some time since Mr. McCormick spoke to me about
the case of his kinsman, Mr. Pitcaim, whom Mr.
Monroe had prevented from exercising the functions
of consul. I can, in justice, inform you that this
gentleman is well considered in our city, and that his
political principles have been understood to be very
friendly to the French Revolution ; nor have we any
doubts that his sentiments towards our own govern-
ment are altogether American, so that in truth there
can be no shadow of political objection to him as to
the office for which he was intended.^

^ Now first printed from the Pickering papers in the possession of the
Massachusetts Historical Society.

Private Correspondence 195

TO

1796.

Our excellent President, as you have seen, has
declined a re-election. 'T is all-important to our
country that his successor shall be a safe man. But
it is far less important who of many men that may
be named shall be the person, than that it shall not
be Jefferson. We have every thing to fear if this
man comes in, and from what I believe to be an
accurate view of our political map I conclude that
he has too good a chance of success, and that good
calculation, prudence, and exertion were never more
necessary to the Federal cause than at this very
critical juncture. All personal and partial con-
siderations must be discarded, and every thing must
give way to the great object of excluding Jefferson.
It appears to be a common opinion (and I think it a
judicious one), that Mr. Adams and Mr. Pinckney
(late minister to England) are to be supported on
our side for President and Vice-President. New
York will be unanimous for both. I hope New Eng-
land will be so too. Yet I have some apprehensions
on this point, lest the fear that he may outrun Mr.
Adams should withhold votes from Pinckney. Should
this happen, it will be, in my opinion, a most unfor-
tunate policy. It will be to take one only instead
of two chances against Mr. Jefferson, and, well
weighed, there can be no doubt that the exclusion
of Mr. Jefferson is far more important than any
difference between Mr. Adams and Mr. Pinckney.
At foot, is my calculation of chances between Adams
and Jefferson. 'T is too precarious. Pinckney has

196 Alexander Hamilton

the chance of some votes southward and westward,
which Adams has not. This will render our pros-
pect in the main point, the exclusion of Jefferson,
far better.

Relying on the strength of your mind, I have not
scrupled to let you see the state of mine. I never
was more firm in an opinion than in the one I now
express, yet in acting upon it there must be much
caution and reserve.'

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

Albany, Oct. 27, 1796.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 1 7 th instant found me at Albany,
attending the Supreme Court. I have no copy of the
treaty with Great Britain at hand, but I am well
satisfied, from memory, that the true interpretation
of the treaty, enforcing, in this respect, the true rule
of neutrality, forbids our permitting the sale of a
prize, taken and brought in by a French national ship
equally as if by a privateer, and that the prize vessel
herself, with her cargo, ought to depart our ports. I
hasten to give you my opinion thus far. I reserve
to consider more at leisure what exceptions absolute
necessity may justify. But this is clear: thr.t as far
as it may admit any, the exceptions must be measured
and restricted by the necessity, and as soon as pos-
sible you must return into the path of the treaty.

Thus, if the prize vessel was absolutely insiifficient
to proceed to sea, her cargo ought to be sent out of

^ Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vi., 538.

Private Correspondence 197

the country in another vessel, and care ought to be
taken that it does not go out under false colors. Our
own officers, no doubt, must inspect and ascertain any
case of necessity which may be suggested.

Pray, my good friend, let there be no evasions.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

November i, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I wrote you a line from Albany, expressing an
opinion from memory that our treaty with Great
Britain prohibited the sale of prizes made by French
national ships. Being just returned to town, I have
looked into the article which related to the point, and
I jear that opinion was wrong. In a day or two I
will write to you more particularly.

Adefs late communication demands a very careful
and well-managed answer.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

November 3, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I have more carefully examined our treaty with
Great Britain and I return to the opinion given you
from Albany. My hesitation yesterday arose from
the terms of the twenty-fourth article, which were con-
fined to privateers, a word that has an appropriate
sense, meaning ships of private persons commis-
sioned to cruise. But the following article contains
the equivalent one to that with France, upon

igS Alexander Hamilton

which we refused all bringing in and sale of prizes by
her enemies. The words are, "no refuge,'* etc., the
major including the minor. And though France, by
our treaty with her, may bring in prizes, yet the
treaty gives her no right to sell. The clause in ques-
tion, in the English treaty, cannot take away the
right she before had to bring in her prizes ; but as she
had not a positive right to sell, it will oblige her to
depart with them : in other words, it will preclude her
from whatever she has not a positive right to. This
also is Mr. Jay's opinion, and it is certainly agreeable
to the whole spirit of the treaty.

TO WASHINGTON

November 4, 1796.

Sir:

I have lately been honored with two letters from
you, one from Mount Vernon, the other from Phila-
delphia, which came to hand yesterday. I imme-
diately sent the last to Mr. Jay, and conferred with
him last night. We settled our opinion on one
point, viz.: that whether Mr. Adet acted with or
without instruction from his government in publish-
ing his commimi cation, he committed a disrespect
towards our government, which ought not to pass
unnoticed, and would most properly be noticed to
him as the representative or agent. That the man-
ner of noticing it, in the first instance, at least, ought
to be negative; that is, by the personal conduct of
the President towards the Minister. That the true
rule on this point would be to receive the Minister

Private Correspondence 199

at your levees with a dignified reserve, holding an
exact medium between an offensive coldness and cor-
diality. The point is a nice one to be hit, but no one
will know better how to do it than the President.

Self-respect and the necessity of discouraging fur-
ther insult, requires that sensibility should be mani-
fested; on the other hand, the importance of not
widening a breach, which may end in rupture, de-
mands great measure and caution in the mode.

Mr. Jay and myself are both agreed also, that no
im^mediate publication of the reply which may be
given ought to be made, for this would be like join-
ing in an appeal to the public — would countenance
and imitate the irregularity, and would not be digni-
fied; nor is it necessary for any present purpose of
the government. Mr. Jay inclined to think that the
reply ought to go through Mr. Pinckney to the Di-
rectory, with only a short note to Adet, acknowledg-
ing the reception of his paper and informing him that
this mode will be taken. I am not yet satisfied that
this course will be best. We are both to consider
further, and confer. You will shortly be informed
of the result.

But whatever be the mode adopted, it is certain
that the reply will be one of the most delicate papers
that has proceeded from our government, in which
it will require much care and nicety to steer between
sufficient and too muck justification, between self-
respect and provocation of further insult or injury;
and that will at the same time save a great political
interest which this step of the French Government
opens to us. Did I not know how guarded you will

200 Alexander Hamilton

yourself be, I should be afraid of Mr. Pickering's
warmth. We must, if possible, avoid a rupture with
France, who, if not effectually checked, will, in the
insolence of power, become no less troublesome to
us than to the rest of the world.

I dedicate Sunday to the execution of your com-
mands in preparing certain heads. You will speedily
hear again from me.

TO WASHINGTON

November 5, 1796.

Sir:

Yesterday, after the departure of the post, I re-
ceived your letter of the 3d. I have since seen the
answer to Adet. I perceive in it nothing intrinsically
exceptionable, but some thing in the manner a little
epigrammatical and sharp. I make this remark
freely, because the card now to be played is perhaps
the most delicate that has occurred in our adminis-
tration, and nations, like individuals, sometimes get
into squabbles from the manner more than the mat-
ter that passes between them. It is all-important
to us — first, if possible, to avoid rupture with France;
secondly, if that cannot be, to evince to the people
that there has been an unequivocal disposition to
avoid it. Our discussions, therefore, ought to be
calnij smooth, inclined to be argumentative; when
remonstrance and complaint are unavoidable, carry-
ing upon the face of them a reluctance and regret^
mingling a steady assertion of our rights and ad-
herence to principle with the language of modera-
tion, and, as long as it can be done, of friendship.

Private Correspondence 201

I am the more particular in these observations,
because I know that Mr. Pickering, who is a very
worthy man, has nevertheless some thing warm and
^ angular in his temper, and will require much a vigil-
ant, moderating eye.

I last evening saw Doctor Bailey, our health
officer, who tells me that the French Consul here, in
conversation with an assistant of the doctors, who is
a refugee from St. Domingo, expressed a desire to
make arrangements for the sick of a French fleet
expected shortly to arrive at this port. I thought
this circumstance worth communication.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

November 9, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I received yesterday your letter of the 6th, and
immediately wrote some additional letters to the
eastward, enforcing what I had before written.
Pennsylvania does not surprise me.

I have reconsidered the opinion given to you on
the third, and see no reason to change it. The
reasoning which leads me to the conclusion, has not
been sufficiently explained, I will therefore be more
particular.

The articles in our treaty with France, which re-
spect the subject, are the seventeenth and twenty-
second.

The seventeenth consists of two parts.

First. — It grants asylum in our ports for French
ships of war and privateers, with their prizes; and

202 Alexander Hamilton

with liberty to carry them freely thence to their own
ports.

Secondly. — It prohibits the giving refuge, in our
ports, to such as shall have made prize of the subjects ^
or property, of the French. It grants no right to sell
prizes in our ports, neither does the letter of the
article prohibit prizes, made of the French, from
coming into our ports. It only prohibits the in-
strument of making the prizes. But the construc-
tion justly adopted by the President was, that the
prohibition, in its true spirit, excluded the bringing
in of prizes, whether coming with, or without, the
capturing vessels. 'T is upon this part of the treaty,
alone, that prizes made by national vessels of Great
Britain, were excluded from our ports. For, —

The twenty-second article with France is wholly
confined to privateers; prohibiting those of other
nations to fit or to sell their prizes in our ports.

This article, had it stood alone, would have left us
as free to admit British national ships, with their
prizes, into our ports, as our twenty-fourth article
with Great Britain leaves us free to admit French
national ships, with their prizes. For these articles
are the exact equivalents of each other. So that, as
before remarked, the prohibition of the coming in,
or sale in, our ports, of prizes made upon the French
by British national ships, was derived, by construction
and implication, from the seventeenth article of our
treaty with France.

It follows, that this article was considered as
competent to prevent the coming in and sale of
prizes.

Private Correspondence 203

If so, the same, or equivalent, terms in the British
treaty, must be competent to the same thing.

Now the twenty-fifth article of our treaty with
Great Britain has equivalent terms. We there read,
that '' no shelter or refuge shall be given in their ports
to such as have made a prize upon the subjects, or
citizens, of either of the contracting parties; but if
forced, by stress of weather or the danger of the sea,
to enter therein, particular care shall be taken to
hasten their departure; and to cause them to retire
as soon as possible. " This prohibition includes here,
as in the seventeenth article of our treaty with
France, a prohibition to sell prizes in our ports ; not
the prizes of privateers only, but prizes generally.

But France, it is answered, had a prior right, by
the seventeenth article of our treaty with her, "to
come and bring prizes into our ports."

True, she had this right, and must have it still,
notwithstanding the twenty-fifth article of our treaty
with Great Britain: but she had no prior right, by
treaty, to sell prizes in our ports ; and consequently,
as the twenty-fifth article of our treaty with Great
Britain excludes, as the minor of a major, the selling
of prizes in our ports, the exclusion, so far, is in force,
because it contravenes no prior right of France. As
far as the treaty with France gives a right, incon-
sistent with the above twenty-fifth article, that right
forms an exception ; but the exception must be only
co-extensive with the right. The conclusion is that
France retains the right of asylum, but is excluded
from the right of selling. This gives effect to the
twenty-fifth article with Great Britain, so far as

204 Alexander Hamilton

the treaty-right of France does not require an ex-
ception.

And this construction ought to be favored, be-
cause it best comports with the rule of neutrality.

It will also best agree with the President's former
decisions. He peimitted France to sell prizes; not
because treaty gave her a right, but because he did
not see clearly any law of the country, or of nations,
that forbids it. But consistency does not require
that this permission shall continue, if there be any
thing in the treaty with Great Britain against it.
Consistency, however, does require that the same
latitude of construction should be given to the
twenty-fifth article of our treaty with Great Britain,
as was before given to the seventeenth article of our
treaty with France. The same latitude will, as I ap-
prehend, exclude the sale of prizes, by France, in the
case in question.

I regret extremely the publication of the reply to
Adet, otherwise than through the channel of Con-
gress. The sooner the Executive gets out of the
newspapers the better. What may now be in its
power, will depend on circumstances which are to
occur.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Nov. io, 1796.

Sir:

I have been employed in making, and have ac-
tually completed a rough draft on the following
heads: ''National University; Military Academy;

Private Correspondence 205

Board of Agriculture; establishment of such manu-
factories on public account as are relative to the
equipment of army and navy, to the extent of the
public demand for supply, and excluding all the
branches already well established in the country;
the gradual and successive creation of a navy;
compensations to public officers; reinforcement of
provision for public debt." I send you this enumer-
ation, that you may see the objects which I shall
prepare for. But I must beg your patience till the
beginning of the next week for the transmission of
the draft, as I am a good deal pressed for time.

The Legislature having appointed Mr. Lawrence
district judge, a successor will of course be to be pro-
vided. A conviction of his competency, a high
opinion of his worth, and a long-established personal
friendship, induce me to take the liberty of pre-
cipitating a recommendation to you of Mr. Troup,
the present clerk of the District and Circuit Court
(the attorney of the district being known to be dis-
inclined to the office). Mr. Troup is a lawyer, pro-
fessionally very respectable, so that his practice is
inferior in productiveness to no other ; but he has by
the most unexceptionable means acquired a property
sufficient to make it reasonable in him to withdraw
from practice, upon a salary such as that of the dis-
trict judge, and latterly his health has somewhat
suffered from a long course of excessive application.
His moral character is without an imputation of any
sort; indeed, no man in the State is better esteemed
than this gentleman; so that, I believe the appoint-
ment would be considered as altogether fit. I trust,

2o6 Alexander Hamilton

however, that in expressing myself thus strongly, it
will not occasion to you a moment's embarrassment,
if any candidate more agreeable to you shall occur.

TO WASHINGTON

November ii, 1796.

Sir:

My anxiety for such a course of things as will most
promise a continuance of peace to the country, and
in the contrary event a full justification of the
President, has kept my mind dwelling on the late
reply to Mr. Adet; and, though it is a thing that
cannot be undone, yet, if my ideas are correct, the
communication of them may not be wholly useless
for the future. The more I have considered the
paper, the less I like it.

I think it is to be regretted that answers were not
given to the preceding communications of Mr. Adet.
For silence commonly carries with it the appearance
of hauteur and contempt. And even if the paper to
be answered is offensive, 't is better and less hazard-
ous to harmony to say so, with calmness and modera-
tion, than to say nothing. Silence is only then to be
adopted when things have come to such a state with
a minister, that it is the intention to break with him.
And even in this case, if there is still a disposition
to maintain harmony with his government, a reply
ought to go through our own organ to it, so as to dis-
tinguish between the minister and the government.

The reason given for not having answered the in-
quiry respecting the impressment of our seamen is

Private Correspondence 207

too broad. When two nations have relations to
each other, and one is at war, the other at peace, if
the one at peace suffers Uberties to be taken with it
by the enemy of the one at war, which turns to the
detriment of the latter, it is a fair subject of inquiry
and discussion. The questions may be asked: How
does this happen? What measures are taken to
prevent a repetition or continuance ? There is always
possibility of connivance, and this possibility gives
a right to inquire, and imposes an obligation to enter
into friendly explanation. 'T is not a matter of in-
difference to our friend, what conduct of its enemy
we permit towards ourselves. Much indeed in all
these cases depends on the manner of the inquiry;
but I am satisfied the principle is as I state it, and
the ground assumed by Mr. Pickering, in the latitude
of the expression, untenable.

These opinions are not confined to me. Though
most people like the air of what is called spirit in
Mr. Pickering's letter, yet some of the best friends
of the cause whisper cautiously remarks similar to
the above.

It is a question now well worth considering,
whether, if a handsome opportunity of rectifying
should not occur with Mr. Adet, it may not be ex-
pedient, specially to instruct Mr. Pinckney, to make
the explanations, putting our backwardness here to
the score of the manner of the inquiry, and qualify-
ing the generality of our principle — ^without giving up
our right of judging of the measure of our compliance
in similar cases.

I know you will so well appreciate the motives to

2o8 Alexander Hamilton

these observations, that I run no risk in being thought
officious, and I therefore freely transmit them, being
always, etc.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Nov. 19, 1796.

Sir:

I duly received your letter of the 12th instant.
My avocations have not permitted me sooner to
comply with your desire. I have looked over the
papers, and suggested alterations and corrections;
and I have also numbered the paragraphs, I., II.,
III., etc., in the order in which it appears to me
eligible they should stand in the speech.

I thought, upon full reflection, you coiild not
avoid an allusion to your retreat, in order to express
your sense of the support of Congress, but that the
simplest manner of doing it was to be preferred. A
paragraph is offered accordingly.

I believe the commencement of a navy ought to

/^' be contemplated. Our fiscal concerns, if Congress

- ' please, can easily be rendered efficient; if not, 't is

their fault, and ought not to prevent any suggestion

which the interest of the country may require.

The paragraph in your letter respecting our
Mediterranean commerce may well be incorporated
in this part of the communication.

You will observe a paragraph I have framed con-
templates a full future communication of our situa-
tion with France. At present it seems to me that
this will be effected in the following mode:

Let a full reply to Mr. Adet's last communication

Private Correspondence 209

be made, containing a particular review of our con-
duct and motives from the commencement of the
Revolution. Let this be sent to Mr. Pinckney, to
be imparted to the Directory; and let a copy of it,
with a short auxiliary statement of facts, if neces-
sary, be sent to the House of Representatives. As
Mr. Adet has suspended his functions, I presume no
reply can be made to him ; but, not having seen his
paper, I cannot judge.

The crisis is immensely important to the glory of
the President, and to the honor and interest of the
country.

It is all-important that the reply to Adet's last
communication, to whomsoever made, should be
managed with the utmost possible prudence and
skill, so that it may be a solid justification — an in-
offensive remonstrance — the expression of a dignified
seriousness — reluctant to quarrel, but resolved not
to be humbled. The subject excites the greatest
anxiety.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

November 22, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your note sending me Adet's letter.
The present is, in my opinion, as critical a situation
as our government has been in, requiring all its pru-
dence, all its wisdom, all its moderation, all its
firmness.

Though the thing is now passed, I do not think it
useless to say to you that I was not well pleased with
the Secretary of State's answer to Adet's note

VOL. X. — 14.

2IO Alexander Hamilton

communicating the order respecting neutral vessels.
There was some thing of hardness and epigrammatic
sharpness in it. Neither did I think the position
true that France had no right to inquire respecting
the affair of seamen. I am of opinion that whenever
a neutral power suffers liberties to be taken with it
by a belligerent one, which turns to the detriment of
the other party, as the acquiring strength by impressing
our seamen, there is a good ground of inquiry, de-
manding candid explanation.

My opinion is, that our communication should be
calm, reasoning, and serious, showing steady resolu-
tion more than feeling, having force in the idea rather
than in the expression.

I am very anxious that our government should do
right on the present occasion.

My ideas are these :

As Adet has declared his functions suspended, the
reply ought not to be to him, but through Mr. Pinck-
ney to the Directory.

It ought to contain a review of our conduct from
the beginning, noticing our first and full acknow-
ledgment of the Republic, and the danger we ran by
it. Also the dangers we incurred by other large in-
terpretations of the treaty in favor of France, ad-
verting to the sale of prizes.

It should meet all the suggestions of the Minister,
correct his misstatements of facts, and meet, argu-
ment atively, his principles. Where arguments al-
ready used are repeated, it ought to be in a new
language, or by quotations in the body of the reply,
not by reference to other communications annexed,

Private Correspondence 211

or otherwise, which embarrass the reading and
attention.

It should review calmly the conduct of France
and her agents, pointing out fully and clearly the
violations of our rights, and the spirit which was
manifested, but in terms the most cautious and in-
offensive.

It should advert to the policy of moderation
towards the enemies of France, which our situation
and that of France, especially as to maritime power,
imposed upon us.

It should briefly recapitulate the means of obtain-
ing redress from Great Britain employed by our
government, and the effects they have produced.

It should explain why the government could not
adopt more expeditious modes; why the Executive
could not control the Judiciary, and should show
that, in effect, the opposite party, as well as France,
suffered the inconveniences of delay.

It should make prominent the consequences upon
the peace and friendship of governments, if all acci-
dental infractions from, situation, from the negli-
gences, etc., of particular officers, are to be imputed
with severity to the government itself, and should
apply the remark to the case of the injuries we have
suffered, in different ways, from the officers and
agents of France.

It should make prominent two ideas: the situa-
tion in which we were with Great Britain prior to
the last treaty, so as to show that, by the laws of
nations, as admitted to us and declared to France
and the world, prior to that treaty, all the things

212 Alexander Hamilton

complained of as resulting from that treaty pre-
viously existed. And it should dwell on the ex-
ception, in that treaty, of prior treaties.

It should point out strongly the idea that the in-
convenience at particular junctures of particular stip-
ulations is no reason for one party superseding them,
but should intimate that the President is willing to
review the relations between the two countries, and,
by a new treaty, if the same shall be approved by
the Senate, to readjust the terms of those relations.

The article in the treaty with France respecting an
admission of the same privileges which are granted
to other powers should be examined. This plainly
means where there is any concession of a positive
privilege which the United States were free to re-
fuse, not where there is a mere recognition of the
principles of the laws of nations.

It should be made prominent that the United
States have always wished, and still wish, to culti-
vate the most amicable relations, and are still dis-
posed to evince this disposition by every method in
their power ; that in what they said they mean only
to show that they have acted in sincerity and good
faith, and have rather received than given cause to
complain; that they have been disposed to make a
candid construction of circumstances which might
seem inconsistent with a friendly conduct in France,
and claim a similar candor in the estimate of their
situation and conduct.

There should be an animadversion upon the unfit-
ness of looking beyond the government to the citizens.

And there should be these ideas, properly couched :

Private Correspondence 213

that the United States cannot admit that a just
cause of resentment has been given; that they ap-
peal from the misapprehension which dictated this
sentiment to the justice and magnanimity of France,
for a retraction of it, and for meeting them freely in
the complete restoration of a friendly intercourse;
that France will not deliberately expect that they
could make a sacrifice of self-respect, since she must
be sensible that a free people ought, in every event,
to cherish it as a sacred duty, and to encounter with
firmness every danger and calamity which an at-
tempt to make them forget it, or degrade them from
their independent character, may involve.

This would be the general complexion of the reply
which I would give. The manner should be ex-
tremely cautious, smooth, even friendly, but yet
solemn and dignified.
'^ . The alliance, in its future operation, must be
against our interest. The door to escape from it is
opened. Though we ought to maintain with good
faith our engagements, if the conduct of the other
party releases us, we should not refuse the release,
so far as we may accept without compromitting our
peace. This idea is very important.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

December 6, 1796.

Dear Sir:

The president of the Bank of New York called upon
me yesterday and manifested considerable anxiety
about the state of the bank. It seems the course
of things lately and their large accommodations to

214 Alexander Hamilton

the Government have produced a balance against
them in favor of the office of discount at this place,
which has lately called for 100,000 dollars in specie
and it is apprehended may speedily call for more.

The president mentioned this situation generally,
with only this view, to show that the bank would
probably be under the necessity of selling the stock
pledged with them, if the government should not be
punctual. It was at the same time declared that
nothing but necessity would lead to any measure in-
convenient to the government, yet it was thought
advisable to admonish of the probable necessity.

A director two or three days since also mentioned
to me that there was a sum of about 26,000 dollars of
interest due to the bank, of which an account had
been rendered, but which was not paid, adding that
in the present situation every little would help. Ob-
servations like these are of course confidential. But
the situation requires, and it will make it good
policy that, if in your power, you should come to the
aid of the Bank of New York. It would be wise, if
possible, to anticipate a particular payment. It will
be also useful to arrest for a time too free calls from
the office.

Friendly attention and good offices on your part
will inspire confidence and embolden the bank to
assist in future emergencies, and it is very much the
policy of the Treasury not to be exclusively de-
pendent on one institution.

P. S. — Let me hear from you on this subject.
What is doing with Adet ?

Private Correspondence 215

TO RUFUS KING

New York, Dec. i6, 1796.

I have received, my dear sir, your several letters
of the 25th of August, loth and nth of September.
You know my sentiments towards you too well to
ascribe my delay in answering them to any other
cause than the imperiousness of avocations with
which I could not dispense.

' Public opinion, taking the country at large, has
continued since you left us to travel on a right di-
rection, and, I trust, will not easily deviate from it.^
You will have seen before this reaches you Mr.
Adet's communciations. We conjecture, as to the
timing of them, that they were intended to influence
the election of president by the apprehension of war
with France. We suppose also they are designed in
the same way to give support to the partisans of
France, and that they have for eventual object the
placing things in just such a state as will leave
France at liberty to slide easily either into a renewal
of cordiality or an actual or virtual war with the
United States. If the war of Europe continues, the
efforts of France will be likely to be levelled as a
primary object against the commerce and credit of
Great Britain; and to injure these, she may think it
advisable to make war upon our trade, — ^forgetting
perhaps that the consequence may be to turn it
more entirely into the channels of Great Britain.
These reflections will be obvious to you. I only
make them to apprise you of the view which is taken
of the subject here. Thus far appearances do not

2i6 Alexander Hamilton

indicate that the purpose of influencing the country
has been obtained. I think, in the main, the effect
has been to impress the necessity of adhering more
firmly to the government.

You need not be told that every exertion not de-
grading to us will be made to preserve peace with
France. Many of the opposite party, however they
may be pleased with appearances of ill-humor in
France, will not wish to go to the length of war.
And we shall endeavor to avoid it in pursuance of
our general plan of preserving peace with all the
world. Yet you may depend that we shall not sub-
mit to be dictated to, or to be forced into a departure
from our plan of neutrality, tmless to repel an attack
upon us.

Our anxiety has been extreme on the subject of
the election for president. If we may trust our in-
formation, which we have every reason to trust, it is
now decided that neither Jefferson nor Burr can be
president. It must be either Adams or Pinckney —
the first most probably. By the throwing away of
votes in New England, lest Pinckney should outrun
Adams, it is not unlikely that Jefferson will be vice-
president. The event will not a little mortify Burr.
Virginia has given him only one vote.

It was expected of course that the Senate's answer
to the President would be flattering to him. But
the speech in the House of Representatives has been
better than was expected. An address, which I
have not seen, but stated by our friends to be a
very good one, has passed the House with only
twelve dissenting, consisting of the most fiery spirits.

Private Correspondence 217

The address is not only generally complimentary to
the President, but includes, it is said, an explicit
approbation of his administration, which caused the
division. Edward Livingston is in the minority.

After giving you these consolatory accounts, I am
now to dash the cup a little by telling you that Liv-
ingston is in all probability re-elected in this city.
The principal cause has been an unacceptable can-
didate on our part — James Watson. There were
four gentlemen who would certainly have succeeded,
but none of them would accept. In Watson we
could not unite opinions. He was more disagreeable
than I had supposed to a large body of our friends,
and yet, after the declining of the persons alluded to,
we could not do otherwise than support him ; for he
had gotten a strong hold upon most of the leading
mechanics who act with us.

But in the State at large we shall better our re-
presentation, and I hope for a majority in the House
of Representatives. As an omen of this there are
several new members in Congress from different
States who hitherto vote with our friends.

The favorable change in the conduct of Great
Britain towards us strengthens the hands of the
friends of order and peace. It is much to be de-
sired that a treatment in all respects unexception-
able from that quarter should obviate all pretext to
inflame the public mind.

We are laboring hard to establish in this country
principles more and more national and free from all tr '^^

foreign ingredients, so that we may be neither ' ^%
'' Greeks nor Trojans," but truly Americans.

^■■

'.-. '^^<f

2i8 Alexander Hamilton

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Dec. 21, 1796.

Dear Sir:

I did not understand by your letter of the 1 7th of
November whether you meant or not to authorize
the immediate commencement of the sale of stock.
If you think this measure will become indispensable,
it may be well to anticipate the execution; though,
indeed, sales of stock are at this juncture nearly im-
practicable. Yet I imagine it will be agreeable to the
bank to have permission to anticipate.

A very prudent letter has lately been written by
the president of the Bank of the United States to
the Office of Discount here, among other things ad-
vising a reduction of the balance due from the Bank
of New York to 100,000 dollars. This letter, which
in my opinion leaves, as it ought to do, to the di-
rectors of the office here, discretion to execute the
idea with due regard to circumstances, has, however,
been construed by them in too peremptory a light;
and accordingly they have drawn from the Bank of
New York pretty rapidly 150,000 dollars, which
begets an apprehension that subsequent calls may
be equally rapid, and, exciting fear and jealousy, is
likely to produce too sudden a retrenchment of the
business of the Bank of New York. And as the
office, being confined, as they suppose, to discount-
ing twice their capital, cannot, by increased accom-
modations, fill the void, there is danger of stagnating
and convulsing the business of the city so as to give
a shock to credit. The directors here are sensible of
the danger, but several of them take the intimation

Private Correspondence 219

from Philadelphia in too strict a sense, and cannot
resolve to alleviate the apprehensions of the Bank of
New York.

Though the Bank of New York has reduced and is
reducing its discounts, there are circumstances of
the moment which continue to incline the balance in
favor of the office, but it is easy to see, taking in the
payments of the government in February, that there
will be a natural change, and consequently it is every
way imprudent to force them.

If the last loan of the Bank of New York to gov-
ernment had no other use than that which you hint,
this still was very important. And it is interesting
all round that a disposition should exist to repeat
similar accommodations. But you easily see how
cautious and disaffected spirits are armed against it
when they can say, ''We told you that you would
embarrass yourself by your loan to government,"
and in truth if this had not been made the Bank of
New York would now stand on high ground.

Pray interpose with Mr. Willing to obtain an ex-
planatory letter leaving more clearly the time and
manner of accomplishing the reduction of the present
balance to their discretion.

I will say nothing more of an anticipated payment,
but if this were practicable to the extent of 50,000
or 100,000 dollars it would be consolatory to the direc-
tors and leave the residue more to your convenience.

Don't derive from this letter any source of alarm.
Every thing is sound with both banks here. I know
the state of both. But there is danger that fear and
jealousy in the directors of the Bank of New York

220 Alexander Hamilton

may produce evil which it is unnecessary to hazard.
I wish to see your report on direct taxes.

I shall send you, the first opportunity, the volume
of "Reports of Courts."

P. S. — Mr. Caleb Brewster is a candidate for the
office of first mate in the revenue cutter here. I re-
member he rendered very meritorious services in
the war, and I am told has been bred a seaman. In
these respects he has a good claim. His character
otherwise is not known to me. But if it affords no
objection, I think he will be an eligible man.

It is said Walker is to resign. In this case Jonathan
Burrall wishes to succeed. There cannot, you know,
be a more fit man, and he will be entirely acceptable
here.'

TO THEO. FOSTER, ESQ.^

Philadelphia, i Sept., 1791.

Dear Sir:

I have had the pleasure of receiving your two
letters of the 23rd July & 4th of August. You con-
cluded rightly that it could require no apology for
entering into the detail with which you have favored
me. On a subject so interesting to your State, your
desire to communicate information was indulged

^ Now first printed from the Wolcott papers, in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society,

2 This letter of Hamilton's to Theo. Foster is now for the
first time printed. The publishers are indebted to the courtesy of
Mr. G. H. Crawford and to the Hamilton Club, of Brooklyn, for per-
mission to use the letter in this set. Theo. Foster was United States
Senator from Rhode Island in 1790.

Private Correspondence 221

with peculiar propriety, & on any subject I shall
always esteem myself obliged by your sentiments.
Thoroughly impressed with the hardship of a de-
cision against the certificates which had been sur-
rendered to the State by their Proprietors, I did not
come to it without a serious struggle between my
Judgment & my Wishes ; but after mature delibera-
tion I sav/ no way of allowing those Certificates to be
received on the proposed loan which would not in-
volve inextricable embarrassment. All the States
have called in large portions of their respective Debts.
There is good reason to believe, that on a close in-
vestigation Rhode Island might not be found to be
the only State in which they had been so called in for
a very inadequate consideration. And tho' it might
be urged to distinguish the case, that Rhode Island
alone compelled the surrender, on pain of forfeiture,
it might be answered that in sound equity, there is
no very material distinction between obliging Per-
sons to surrender their property for less than its
value, under the penalty of confiscation and laying
them under a necessity of doing the same thing,
from the total and deliberate neglect of a better pro-
vision. Be this as it may, I saw no safe rule, that
would be admitted to be such by even the candid
part of those, whose interest it might be to dispute it,
by which I could pronounce that Certificates sur-
rendered and cancelled by the Mutual Acts of the
Creditor and Debtor should be permitted to receive
and acquire validity in respect to one State and not
in respect to another. And without such rule, all
the extinguished portions of the Debts of all the

2 22 Alexander Hamilton

States might, if they should think proper to make it
so, acquire a capacity of being subscribed towards
the assumption. Where this would lead it is not
necessary to say. The two Carolinas have actually
passed laws for subscribing the portions of their
respective Debts which have been extinguished by
them — the only answer I can give is that a Bond
surrendered as discharged constitutes no Debt and
that in every such case, there is no Debt to be
assumed.

I cannot allow an after act of a State to create a
Debt within the meaning of the funding Act, which
it cannot be admitted to have contemplated as then
in existence. It may be asked, How then shall
the Certificates which remained in the hands of
Individuals, but which were forfeited by the law of
the State, be admitted upon the Loan, any more than
those which were surrendered? This is a question
not wholly free from difficulty; but if I had found
no distinction satisfactory to my own mind, I should
have been obliged to reject the whole. Such a dis-
tinction, however, was in my opinion to be found.
Upon principle, it is a general rule, that the dissolu-
tion of a contract by one party without the con-
currence of the other, is void.

The Creditors who did not concur may claim the
benefit of that rule and it is to be supposed that it
was the intention of Congress, they should have it.
It may be said to be a legal presumption that Con-
gress, at the time of passing the funding Act, was
acquainted with the laws of Rhode Island respecting
the Certificates. And in point of fact the generality

Private Correspondence 223

of them were so at least in substance. They must,
therefore, have been apprised, that if the forfeiture
annexed in those laws to the not bringing in the
certificates for payment was to prevail, there was no
debt of the State of Rhode Island to be assumed.
By assuming a Sum of 200,000 Dollars, a sum by the
way nearly corresponding with the amount of the
outstanding Certificates, the clear inference is that
they meant to consider those Certificates as in force,
and the forfeiture as far as regarded the assumption,
as inoperative. But it is not a reasonable presump-
tion, that they could have intended to comprise the
surrendered Certificates, which could not even be
repossessed by the individual proprietors without
a subsequent act of the State.

I have made some suggestions in this letter, which
I should perhaps have omitted if I had considered it
as strictly official, and therefore request that it may
be received as a private and in some sort a confi-
dential communication.

I cannot lose the opportunity of expressing to you
that I feel myself truly and very much indebted to
the Senators of Rhode Island for the very flattering
manner in which they have made mention of the
Secretary of the Treasury in their late commimication
to the State.

The measure of their approbation certainly ex-
ceeds that of his services or pretentions.

With respectful consideration and real regard, I
have the honor to be

Dear Sir

Your obedient Servant.

2 24 Alexander Hamilton

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

December 23, 179(5.

My Dear Sir:

I wrote to you two days ago on the subject of
obtaining an instruction from the Bank of the
United States to the direction of the office here to
prevent a speedy repetition of these calls on the
Bank of New York. This bank has so large a pro-
portion of its whole capital in the power of the office
that, if it be not tranquillized on the subject of
demands from that quarter, it will be driven to such
violent operations as cannot fail to convulse credit,
and, among other evils, prevent the collection of the
revenues. The danger is urgent, and a prompt ex-
planation is essential.

The situation of the Bank of New York is, no
doubt, materially owing to the prolongation of the
old and the new loan to government. Its capital is
900,000 dollars; its discount, 1,600,000. Here is
certainly no imprudence.

Many of the merchants here are anxious for an
accommodation for the duties similar to that which
I upon certain trying occasions made. I know not
what is possible on your part."

TO WILLIAM SMITH

1797.

My Dear Sir:

I received your letter of the . Though I do

not like in some respects the answer of the House to
the speech, yet I frankly own that I had no objection

^ Now first printed from the Wolcott papers, in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

Private Correspondence 225 ^0

Sf
to see it softened down. For I think there is no use

in hard words — and in pubHc proceedings would

almost always unite the suaviter in modo with the

for titer in re.

But I must regret that there is no prospect of the
fortiter in re. I perceive clearly that your measures
will wear upon the whole the aspect of resentment,
without means or energy sufficient to repel injury.
Our country will be first ruined, and then we shall
begin to think of defending ourselves.

I will not enter much into detail, but I will observe
that instead of three frigates of thirty- two, I would
prefer an increase of the number of cutters. Surely
twenty of these cannot embarrass the most squeam-
ish, and less than this number will be useless.

But from all I can see you will have no revenue.
Overdriven theory everywhere palsies the operations
of our government, and renders all rational practice
impossible.

My ideas of revenue wovild be :
A tax on buildings ..... $1,000,000
Stamp tax, including perfumeries — a per-
centage on policies of insurance — on
collateral successions to real and per-
sonal estate — on hats — say . . . 500,000
5 cents for the worst, 10 for the middling,

and 20 for the best saddle-horses . 250,000

Salt, so as to make the whole 25 per cent. 250,000

$2,000,000

I have explained my ideas of the house tax to
Wolcott and Sedgwick.

It is to take certam criteria of different buildings,

VOL X. — 15.

226 Alexander Hamilton

and annex to them ratios, not rates. (What I gave
to Sedgwick as rates may serve as ratios.) Then
apportion the tax among the States, and distribute
the quota of each among the individuals according
to ratios. The aggregate of the ratios will represent
the quota of the State — then, as that aggregate is to
be the sum of the quota, so will be the sum of the
ratios of each building to the tax to be paid by each
individual.

I am told an objection will arise from the negro
houses in the South. Surely there is no impractica-
bility in annexing ratios to them which will be pro-
portional to their taxable value. This plan will
avoid the worst of all inconveniences — arbitrary
valuations ; and will avoid the embarrassment for the
present of a land tax; will be also consistent with
expedition. I entertain no doubt it can be adjusted
so as to be free from any material objection. The
smallness of the tax will render any material in-
equality impossible. You cannot compute fewer
than six hundred thousand houses, which, at an
average, would be about a dollar and a half a house.
The proportions of the better houses on the proposed
plan would make the tax fall light on the inferior and
country houses, which is desirable for recommending
the first essay; nor would any house I am persuaded
have to pay ten dollars. What room for serious
objection ? You then lay a foimdation for an annual
million on real property, which will become a per-
manent accession to your revenue ; whereas you will
feel an endless embarrassment about agreeing upon
any tax on lands.
Private Correspondence 227

TO

You seem to be of opinion to defer to a future
period the commencement of direct taxation. 1
acknowledge I am inclined to lay hold of it now. The
leaders (Findley, Gallatin, Madison, Nicholas) of the
opposite party favor it now perhaps with no good
design. But it will be well to take them while in the
humor, and make them share the responsibility.
This will be the more easy, as they are inclined to
take the lead. Our external affairs are so situated,
that it seems to me indispensable to open new springs
of revenue, and press forward our little naval pre-
paration, and be ready for augmenting it.

I have been reading the report of the Secretary of
the Treasury on this subject. I think it does him
credit. The general principles and objects are cer-
tainly good ; nor am I sure that any thing better can
be done. I remember that I once promised you to
put in writing my ideas on the subject. I intended
to have done it, and commimicated them to the
Secretary. My hurry and press of business pre-
vented me, but I concluded lately to devote an
evening to a rude sketch and to send it to you. You
may show it to the Secretary and confer. If, in the
course of the thing, it can be useful to the general end
we all have in view, it will give me pleasure. If not,
there will have been but little time misspent. Of
cotirse, no use will be made of it in contradiction to
the views of the Treasury department.

As to the part which relates to land, I do not feel

2 28 Alexander Hamilton

any strong preference of my plan to that in report;
for this, in my opinion, ought to be considered only
as an auxiliary, and not as the pith of the tax. But
I have a strong preference of my plan of a house tax
to that in the report. These are my reasons: It is
more comprehensive, embracing all houses, and will
be proportionally more productive. It is more cer-
tain, avoiding the evasions and partialities to which
valuations will forever be liable, and I think is for
that reason likely to be at least as equal. I entertain
no doubt that the rules of rates, adapted as they are
to characterize circumstances, will in fact be more
favorable to equality than appraisements. I think
the idea of taxing only houses of above a certain
annual value will be dissatisfactory. The com-
parison of the proprietors of houses immediately
above with those immediately below the line will
beget discontent, and the errors of valuation will
increase it. I think there will be a great advantage
in throwing the weight of the tax on houses, as well
because lands are more difficult to manage, as be-
cause it will fall in a manner less dissatisfactory. I
would not bear hard in this way. I would add, as
aid, the taxes contemplated last session on stamps,
collateral successions — new modifications of some
articles of imports, and, let me add, saddle-horses.
The idea of taxing slaves generally will not work
well. If confined to all menial servants for luxury,
as coachmen, footmen, cooks, etc., it would be
eligible.'

^ Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vi., 592.

Private Correspondence 229

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Jan. 19, 1797.

Sir:

Mrs. De Neuville, widow of Mr. De Neuville,'
formerly of Holland, lately passed through this city.
On her way she called upon me, and announced her
intention to make application to Congress, on the
ground of the political services rendered the United
States by her husband as, in fact, a principal cause
of his pecuniary misfortunes, and expressed a wish
that I would lay the case under your eye. I told her
that your situation did not permit you to take an
agency in similar matters depending before Congress,
and that you were very delicate on such subjects.
She replied that you might, perhaps, indirectly pro-
mote her cause, and that from a letter from you to
her husband, she was encouraged to think you would
be disposed to befriend her. I yielded at last to
female importunity, and promised to mention the
matter. I do not know what the case admits of, but
from papers which she showed me, it would seem
that she has pretensions on the kindness of this
country.

Our merchants here are becoming very uneasy on
the subject of the French captures and seizures.
They are certainly very perplexing and alarming,
and present an evil of a magnitude to be intolerable,

^ John De Neuville, of the Dutch banking-house of John De Neuville
& Sons. He was an active, agreeable, speculative man, who had more
or less to do with our financial efforts during the war. He made
propositions to Franklin, which were dismissed as extravagant, and
John Adams, with many misgivings and viltiniate disapproval, had
some dealings with him.

230 Alexander Hamilton

if not shortly remedied. My anxiety to preserve
peace with France is known to you, and it must be
the wish of every prudent man that no honorable
expedient for avoiding a rupture be omitted. Yet
there are bounds to all things. This country cannot
see its trade an absolute prey to France without re-
sistance. We seem to be where we were with Great
Britain when Mr. Jay was sent there, and I cannot
discern but that the spirit of the policy, then pur-
sued with regard to England, will be the proper one
now in respect to France — viz. : a solemn and final
appeal to the justice and interest of France, and if
this will not do, measures of self-defence. Any thing
is better than absolute humiliation. France has
already gone much further than Great Britain ever
did.

I give vent to my impressions on this subject,
though I am persuaded yotir own reflections cannot
materially vary.

TO WILLIAM SMITH

January 19, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Mrs. De Neuville, widow of Mr. De Neuville,'
formerly of Holland, is on her way to Philadelphia to
solicit the kindness of Congress in virtue of services
rendered the American cause by her husband. You
probably know their history, as South Carolina was
particularly concerned. From what I have heard, it
seems to me her pretensions, on the score of her

* See above to Washington, January 19, 1797.

Private Correspondence 231

husband, to the kindness of this country, are strong;
as a distressed and amiable woman, she has a claim
to everybody's kindness.

What are you about in Congress? Our affairs
seem to be at a very critical point with France. We
seem to be brought to the same point with her as we ^ ^

were with Great Britain when Mr. Jay was sent
there. One last effort of negotiation to produce f i'^^ ,.
accommodation and redress, or measures of self-
defence. Have you any thoughts of an embargo?
There may be erelong a necessity for it. Are you in
earnest about the additional revenue? this is very
necessary.

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

January 20, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I received your late letter in due time. You seem
to be of opinion to defer to a future period the com-
mencement of direct taxation. I acknowledge I am
inclined to lay gently hold of it now. Leaders of the
opposite party favor it now, perhaps, with no good
design. But it will be well to take them while in
the humor, and make them share the responsibility.
This will be the more easy as they are inclined to
take the lead. Our external affairs are so situated,
that it seems to me indispensable to open new springs
of revenue, and press forward our little naval pre-
paration, and be ready for augmenting it. But, on
the whole, I have always leaned to the opinion that
half a million from direct taxes was not enough to
begin with, nor should I have proposed more.

i\

•7

232 Alexander Hamilton

What are we to do with regard to our good allies ?
Are we to leave our commerce a free prey to them?
I hope not. It seems to me we are even beyond the
point at which we were with Great Britain when Mr.
\\ J^y "^^s ^^^^ thither, and that some thing like a
similar plan ought to be pursued — that is, we ought
to make a final effort to accommodate, and then re-
sort to measures of defence. I believe erelong an
embargo on our own vessels will be advisable — to last
till the conduct of France changes, or till it is ascer-
tained it will not change. In the last event, the fol-
lowing system may be adopted: to grant special
letters of marque, with authority to repel aggressors
and capture assailants; to equip our frigates ; to arm
a number of sloops-oj-war of existing vessels to con-
voy our merchantmen. This may be a middle term
of general hostility, though it may slide into the
latter. Yet, in this case, it may be well to let
France make the progress. But at all events we
must protect our commerce and save our honor.

As to the balance business, the agitation has been
every way unfortunate. There is not an individual
in the State of New York who is not profoundly
convinced that the settlement was wholly artificial^
and as it regarded the rule of quoting, manifestly
unjust, and consequently, that there is no justice in
paying it. I never saw but one mode of getting
through the business, which is for Congress to call
for a certain sum of each debtor State annually, say
a fiftieth part, declaring that if not paid, each instal-
ment shall bear interest from the time it becomes
due, but till then the principal to carry no interest.

Private Correspondence 233

I believe the State for harmon^^'s sake would yield to
such an arrangement. It may be said this will be
onh^ a nominal payment. I answer, true, but an
artificial balance ought only to be nominally paid.
The conduct of some gentlemen in the late question
has pained me much. It is inconsistent with a tacit
pledge of faith. Every New Yorker who had any
thing to do with our fiscal arrangements has been
personally compromised.

TO WASHINGTON

January 22, 1797.

Sir:

The sitting of the court and an uncommon pressure
of business have unavoidably delayed an answer to
your last favor. I have read with attention Mr.
Pickering's letter. It is, in the main, a substantial
and satisfactory paper — will, in all probability, do
considerable good in enlightening public opinion at
home, and I do not know that it contains any thing
which will do harm elsewhere. It wants, however, in
various parts, that management of expression and
suaviter in modo which a man more used to diplo-
matic communications could have given it, and which
would have been happy if united with its other
merits.

I have reflected as maturely as time has permitted
on the idea of an extraordinary mission to France, and,
notwithstanding the objections, I rather incline to it
under some shape or other. As an imitation of what
was done in the case of Great Britain, it will argue
to the people equal solicitude. To France it will

234 Alexander Hamilton

have a similar aspect (for Pinckne}^ will be considered
there as a mere substitute in ordinary course to Mr.
Monroe), and will in some degree soothe her pride.
The influence on party, if a man in whom the oppo-
sition has confidence is sent, will be considerable in
the event of non- success ; and it will be to France a
bridge over which she may more easily retreat.

The best form of the thing, in my view, is a com-
mission including three persons, who may be called
commissioners plenipotentiary and extraordinary.
Two of these should be Mr. Madison and Mr. Pinck-
ney ; a third may be taken from the Northern States,
and I know of none better than Mr. Cabot, who, or
any two of whom, may be empowered to act.

Mr. Madison will have the confidence of the French
and of the opposition. Mr. Pinckney will have some
thing of the same advantage in an inferior degree.
Mr. Cabot, without being able to prevent their doing
what is right, will be a salutary check upon too much
Gallicism, and his real commercial knowledge will
supply their want of it. Besides that, he will enjoy
the confidence of all the friends of the Administra-
tion. His disposition to preserve peace is ardent and
unqualified.

This plan, too, I think, will consist with all reason-
.1-^° ^b"^ able attention to Mr. Pinckney 's feelings.
^ /^^"^ ^ Or (which, however, I think less eligible) Mr.

Madison and Mr. Pinckney only may be joint com-
missioners, without a third person. Mr. Cabot, if
appointed without being consulted, will, I think,
certainly go. If not, the other two may act without
him.

Private Correspondence 235

The power to the commissioners will be to adjust
amicably mutual compensations and the compen-
sations which may be due by either party, and to
revise and remodify the political and commercial
relations of the two countries.

In the exercise of their power they must be re-
strained by precise instructions to do nothing in-
consistent with our other existing treaties, or with
the principles of construction of those with France
adopted by our executive government, as declared in
its public acts and communications ; and nothing to
extend our political relations in respect to alliance,
but to endeavor to get rid of the mutual guaranty in
the treaty, or, if that shall be impracticable, to
stipulate specific succors in lieu of it, as so many 14
troops, so many ships, so much money, etc.; strictly
confining the casus foederis to future defensive wars,
after a general and complete pacification terminating
the present war, and defining offensive war to be,
where there is either a full declaration of war against
the ally, or a first commission of actual hostility on
the territory or property of the ally by invasion or
capture. As to commerce, with the above restric-
tions, there may be full discretion. These are
merely inaccurate outlines.

Unless Mr. Madison will go, there is scarcely
another character that will afford advantage.

Cogent motives of public utility must prevail over
personal considerations. Mr. Pinckney may be told,
in a private letter from you, that this is an unavoid-
able concession to the pressure of public exigency and
the state of internal parties.

M^

236 Alexander Hamilton

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

January 23, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I remember that very early in the day, and prior
to any act of Great Britain, the French passed a
decree violating, with regard to all the neutral
powers, the principle of free ships, free goods, and I
think making provisions liable to seizure. This de-
cree was afterwards rescinded as to America — then
again revived, and then again revoked. I want
copies of these decrees for a particular purpose useful
to the government, and presuming they must be on
the files of your department, you will oblige me much
by letting me have copies as speedily as may be
convenient.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, Feb. 6, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I duly received your letter of the 23d of January,
with its enclosure, for which I am much obliged to
you. I have read it with great pleasure. It is a
substantial, satisfactory paper; will do good in this
country; and as to France, I presume events will
govern there.

Is it not proper to call upon the merchants to
furnish your department with statements and proofs
of the spoliations which we have suffered from the
French, as was done when the English were in their
mischievous career?

I received your other letter with certain enclo-
sures.

Private Correspondence 237

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

February lo, 1797.

Dear Sir:

If I recollect right, Chancellor Livingston, while
Secretary of Foreign Affairs, reported a censure upon
our commissioners who made the peace with Great
Britain, for not obeying their instructions with regard
to France. Will you favor me in confidence with
the real state of this business? I was at the time
a member of Congress. It was immediately on the
arrival of the provisional articles.

I hope, my dear sir, effectual measures axe taking
to bring us to some issue with France to ascertain
whether her present plan is to be persisted in or
abandoned. For, surely, our commerce ought not
to be thus an undefended prey.

TO rufus king

February 15, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Give me leave to recall to your recollection and
acquaintance Mr. De Galon the bearer of this, who,
as he informs me, goes to Europe on private business.
I need not observe that he is an interesting man, as
you know all his titles to the attention which your
situation permits you to afford.

You must not think I forget you because I do not
write (for this is only my third letter). I am over-
whelmed in professional business, and have scarcely
a moment for any thing else.

238 Alexander Hamilton

You will have learned the terrible depredations
which the French have committed upon our trade
in the West Indies, on the declared principle of in-
tercepting our whole trade with the ports of her
enemies. This conduct is making the impression
which might be expected, though not with that
electric rapidity which would have attended similar
treatment from another power. The present session
of Congress is likely to be very unproductive. That
body is in the situation which we foresaw certain
an^^'-executive maxims would bring them to.

Mr. Adams is President, Mr. Jefferson is Vice-
President. Our Jacobins say they are well pleased,
and that the lion and the lamb are to lie down to-
gether. Mr. Adams' personal friends talk a little in
the same way. "Mr. Jefferson is not half so ill a
man as we have been accustomed to think him.
There is to be a united and a vigorous administra-
tion." Skeptics like me quietly look forward to the
event, willing to hope, but not prepared to believe.
If Mr. Adams has vanity 't is plain a plot has been
laid to take hold of it. We trust his real good sense
and integrity will be a sufficient shield.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Feb. 17, 1797.

I groan, my dear sir, at the disgraceful course of
our affairs. I pity all those who are officially in the
vortex. The behavior of Congress in the present
crisis is a new political phenomenon. They must be

Private Correspondence 239

severely arraigned before the bar of the pubhc. How j
unfortunate that our friends suffer themselves, by
their passiveness, to be confounded in the guilt.'

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

February 26, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

The present inimitable course of our public affairs
proves me to be a very bad politician, so that I am
afraid to suggest any idea that occurs to me. Yet I
will give over my timidity and commimicate for
your consideration a reverie which has struck me.

It is a fact that the resentment of the French
Government is very much levelled at the actual
President. A change of the person (however un-
desirable in other respects) may give a change to
the passion, and may also furnish a bridge to retreat
over. This is a great advantage to a new president, \
and the most ought to be made out of it. For it is
much our interest to preserve peace, if we can with
honor, and if we cannot, it will be very important to
prove that no endeavor to do it has been omitted.

Were I Mr. Adams, then, I believe I should begin , u
my presidency by naming an extraordinary com- '
mission to the French repiiblic, and I think it woiild
consist of three persons : Mr. Madison, Mr. Pinckney ,
and Mr. Cabot. I should pursue this course for
several reasons, because I would have a man as in-
fluential with the French as Mr. Madison, yet I

I Reprinted from the Administrations of Washington and Adams,
i-, p. 443-

>'>

240 Alexander Hamilton

would not trust him alone, lest his Gallicism shotild
work amiss, because I would not wound Mr. Pinck-
ney, so recently sent in the same spirit; thirdly, I
think Cabot would mix very useful ingredients in
the cup.

The commission should be charged to make ex-
planations, to remonstrate, to ask indemnification,
and they should be empowered to make a new treaty
of commerce, not inconsistent with our other treat-
ies, and perhaps to abrogate or remodify the treaty
of alliance.

That treaty can only be inconvenient to us in the
future. The guaranty of our sovereignty and inde-
pendence henceforth is nominal. The guaranty of
the West India Islands of France, as we advance in
strength, will be more and more real. In future, and
in a truly defensive war, I think we shall be bound
to comply efficaciously with our guaranty. Nor
have I been able to see that it means less than obliga-
tion to take part in such a war with our whole force.
I have no idea of treaties which are not executed.

Hence, I want to get rid of that treaty by mutual
consent, or liquidate its meaning to a treaty of
definite succor, in a clearly defensive war; so many
men, so many ships, so much money, and to be fur-
nished by one ally to the other. This, of course,
must be so managed as to exclude unequivocally the
present war in all its possible mutations. The idea
of a definite duration would also be useful.

Such objects are important enough for three. In
executive matters, I am as little fond as most people
of plurality, but I think it pedantry to admit no ex-

Private Correspondence 241

ceptions to any general rule, and I believe, under the
present circumstances of the case, a commission
would be advisable. I give my dream of it as it
occurred; you will do with it what you please.

The idea here given, to be useful ought to be exe-
cuted at once. The Senate should not be permitted
to disperse.

TO JAMES McHENRY.

March 22 (?), 1797.

My Dear Friend:

Take my ideas and weigh them of a proper course
of conduct for our Administration in the present
juncture.

You have called Congress. 'T is well.

When the Senate meets (which I should be glad to
see anticipated), send a Commission Extraordinary
to France. Let it consist of Jefferson or Madison y
Pinckney, and a third very safe man, say, Cabot (or

Jay).

Proclaim a religious solemnity to take place at ^ ,^
the meeting of Congress. '-^^^"^

When Congress meet, get them to lay an embargo,
with liberty to the Executive to grant license to de-
part to vessels armed or sailing with convoys.

Increase the revenues vigorously and provide
naval forces for convoys.

Purchase a number of vessels now built the most
fit for sloops-of-war and cutters, and arm and com-
mission them to serve as convoys. Grant qualified
letters of marque to your merchantmen to arm,

VOL. X. — 16.

*7*

242 Alexander Hamilton

defend themselves, and capture those who attack, but
not to cruise or attack.

J! Form a provisional army of 25,000 men, to be en-
' gaged eventually and have certain emoluments.
Increase your cavalry and artillery in immediate
service.

Or do as much of all this as you can. Make a
last effort for peace, but be prepared for the worst.

The Emperor Paul is at best equivocal. A suc-
cessor is apt to differ from a predecessor. He seems
to be a reformer, too. Who can say into what scale
his weight may be finally thrown ?

If things shall so turn that Austria is driven to
make peace and England left to contend alone, who
can guarantee us that France may not sport in this
country a proselyting army?

Even to get rid of the troops if it fails may be no
bad thing to the government of that country. There
is a possible course of things which may subject
us even to an internal invasion by France. Our
calculations to be solid should contemplate this
possibility.

I know in your Administration there is a doubt
about a Commission or Envoy Extraordinary. I am
very sorry for it, because I am sure it is an expedi-
ent measure. But perhaps France has said she will
receive no minister till her grievances shall be
redressed.

'T is hardly possible this can refer to any but a
minister who is to reside. A special extraordinary
mission cannot be intended to be excluded, because
it is at least necessary to know what measure of re-

Private Correspondence 243

dress will satisfy if any is due. But grant she will
refuse to hear.

Still, the great advantage results of showing in the
most glaring light to our people, her unreasonable-
ness, of disarming a party of the plea that all has
not been done which might be done, and of refuting
completely the charge that the actual administration
desires war with France.

But the enemies of the government desire the
measure. 'T is the strongest reason for adopting it.
This will meet them on their own ground and shut
their mouths.

But to answer the end, a man who will have their
confidence must be sent — Jefferson or Madison. To
do this and to be safe, others must be united —
Jay, Pinckney, and Cabot. Hence the idea of a
commission.

I am really, my friend, anxious that this should be
your plan. Depend on it, it will unite the double ad-
vantage of silencing enemies and satisfying friends.

I write you this letter on your fidelity. No mortal
must see it or know its contents/

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

March 22, 1797.

Dear Sir:

It is now ascertained that Mr. Pinckney has been
refused, and with circumstances of indignity. What
is to be done ? The share I have had in the public

^ Now first printed entire from the Hamilton papers in the State
Department. A portion of this letter is given in the History of the
Republic, vii., i8.

\

244 Alexander Hamilton

administration, added to my interest as a citizen,
makes me extremely anxious that at this delicate
crisis a course of conduct exactly proper may be
adopted. I offer to your consideration, without
what appears to me ceremony, such a course.

First. — I would appoint a day of humiliation and
prayer. In such a crisis this appears to me proper
in itself, and it will be politically useful to impress
our nation that there is a serious state of things — to
strengthen religious ideas in a contest, which in its
progress may require that our people may consider
themselves as the defenders of their country against
atheism, conquest, and anarchy. It is far from
evident to me that the progress of the war may
not call on us to defend our firesides and our
altars. And any plan which does not look forward
to this as possible, will, in my opinion, be a super-
ficial one.

Second. — I would call Congress together at as short
a day as a majority of both houses can assemble.

Third. — When assembled, I would appoint a com-
mission extraordinary, to consist of Mr. Jefferson or
Mr. Madison, together with Mr. Cabot and Mr.
Pinckney. To be useful it is important that a man
agreeable to the French should go. But neither
Madison nor Jefferson otight to go alone. The three
will give security. It will flatter the French pride.
It will engage American confidence and recommend
the people to what shall be eventually necessary.
The commission should be instructed to explain ; to
ask a rescinding of the order imder which we suffer,
and reparation for the past — to remodify our treaties

Pirvate Correspondence 245

under proper guards. On the last idea I will trouble
you hereafter.

Fourth. — The Congress should be urged to take
defensive measures, these to be an embargo, unless
with convoy by special license.

1. Additional revenue for additional expenses.

2. The creation of a naval force — including the
prompt purchase and equipment of sloops-of-war —
this force to serve as convoys to our trade.

3. Commissions to be granted to our merchant
vessels, authorizing them to arm to defend them-
selves; to capture when attacked, but not to cruise.
The same instructions to our convoys.

4. The organization of a provisional army of
twenty-five thousand men, to be ready to serve if a
war breaks out — in the meantime to receive certain
compensations, but not full pa3^ The actual in-
crease of our establishment in artillery and cavalry.

The following considerations appear to me weighty.
The Empress of Russia is dead. Successors are too
apt to contradict predecessors. The new emperor
may join Prussia. The emperor of Germany by this
means or by the fortune of war may be compelled to
make peace. England may be left alone. America
may be a good outlet for troublesome armies which
the government is at a loss to manage. The govern-
ing passion of the rulers of France has been revenge.
Their interest is not to be calculated upon. To
punish us, to force us into a greater dependence, may
be the plan of France.

At any rate we shall best guarantee ourselves
against calamity by preparing for the work. In this

246 Alexander Hamilton

/ time of general convulsion, in a state of things which
threatens all civilization, 't is a great folly to wrap
ourselves up in a cloak of security.

The Executive before Congress meet ought to have
a well-digested plan and to co-operate in getting it
adopted.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, March 29, 1797.

Dear Sir:

The post of yesterday brought me your letter of
the day before.

I regret that the idea of a commission extraor-
dinary appears of doubtful propriety. For after
very mature reflection I am entirely convinced of its
expediency. I do not understand the passage you
cite as excluding the reception of a special extra-
ordinary minister, but of an extraordinary resident
minister. It seems impossible that the Directory
can mean to say that they will shut the door to all
explanation, even as to the nature and measure of the
redress of grievances which they require. They
speak too hastily not to authorize a large interpreta-
tion of what they say.

But if I were certain they would not hear the com-
mission, it would not prevent my having recourse
to it. It would be my policy, if such a temper exists
in them, to accumulate the proofs of it with a view
to union at home.

This union (I do not expect to proselyte all the
leaders of faction) appears to me a predominant

Private Correspondence 247

consideration; and, with regard to France, more
than ordinary pains are requisite to attain it.

That the enemies of the government desire the
measure, is a cogent reason with me for adopting it;
because I would meet them on their own ground and
disarm them of the argument that all has not been
done which might have been done towards preserv-
ing peace.

The estimation of the merit of all our past measures
depends on the final preservation of peace. This,
besides the interest of the country in peace, is a very
powerful reason for attempting every thing. The
best friends of the government will expect it, and if
this expedient be not adopted, it seems to me rup-
ture will inevitably follow.

There is an opinion industriously inculcated
(which nobody better than myself knows to be
false), that the actual administration are endeavor-
ing to provoke a war. It is all important by the
last possible sacrifice to confound this charge. I
cannot but add that I have not only a strong wish,
but an extreme anxiety, that the measure in question
may be adopted.

To attain the end of it, however, it is very ma-
terial to engage in the errand a man who will have the
full confidence of the adverse party, and who will be
agreeable to France.

This cannot be done without employing others
with him.. Hence the idea of a commission, which
to me appears capable of attaining every advantage
and obviating every danger.

I am also desirous of impressing the public mind

I

248 Alexander Hamilton

strongly by a religious solemnity, to take place about
the meeting of Congress. I also think the step in-
trinsically proper.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

March 30, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Every one who can properly appreciate the situa-
tion of our affairs at this moment, in all the extent
of possible circumstances, must be extremely anx-
ious for such a course of conduct in our govern-
ment, which will unite the utmost prudence with
energy. It has been a considerable time my wish,
that a commission extraordinary ' should be con-
stituted to go to France, to explain, demand, nego-
tiate, etc. I was particularly desirous that the first
measure of the present president's administration
should have been that. But it has not happened.
I now continue to wish earnestly that the same
measure may go into effect, and that the meeting of
the Senate may be accelerated for that purpose.
Without opening a new channel of negotiation, it
seems to me the door to accommodation is shut, and
rupture will follow, if not prevented by a general
peace. Who, indeed, can be certain that a general
pacification of Europe may not leave us alone to re-
ceive the law from France ? Will it be wise to omit
any thing to parry, if possible, these great risks?

Perhaps the Directory have declared they will not
receive a minister till their grievances shall have been
redressed.

^ Madison, Pinckney, and Cabot. ;^ ^ -5 <^_

Private Correspondence 249

This can hardly mean more than that they will not
receive a resident minister. It cannot mean that
they will not hear an extraordinary messenger, who
may even be sent to know what will satisfy.

Suppose they do. It will still be well to convince
the people that the government has done all in its
power, and that the Directory are unreasonable.

But the enemies of the government call for the
measure. To me this is a very strong reason for
pursuing it. It will meet them on their own ground,
and disarm them of the plea that some thing has
been omitted.

I ought, my good friend, to apprise you, for you
may leam it from no other, that a suspicion begins
to dawn among the friends of the government, that
the actual administration is not much averse to war
with France. How very important to obviate this!

The accounts just received offer a great danger,
that the Emperor may be compelled to make peace.
Paul of Russia is evidently lukewarm in the cause of
the allies. From lukewarmness to enmity, when for-
tunes take the other side, is but a step.

If England is left to bear the burthen alone, who
can say that France may not venture to sport an
army to this country? It may get rid of trouble-
some spirits.

As in the case of England, so now, my opinion is,
to exhaust the expedients of negotiation; and, at
the same time, to prepare vigorously for the worst.
This is sound policy. Any omission or deficiency
either way, will be a great error.

250 Alexander Hamilton

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

April I, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 30th, with the
statement enclosed. I do not believe that its pub-
lication would have any influence upon the question
of a rupture with France, but yet, as it seems that
those who surround the President are not agreed in
the matter — as an opinion is industriously circulated
that too much fuel has been added by the publica-
tions of the government — as it is important to dis-
arm a certain party of the weapons of calumny, — as
it is in general best to avoid unofficial publications
of official matter — as it may be even useful, for the
sake of impression, to reserve the disclosure till
the meeting of Congress, when the accumulation of
insult may be the instrument of giving a strong im-
pulse,— I rather advise the withholding of the state-
ment. When Congress meet, it will be very useful
to have a statement ready, as the abstract of the
communication, to present to the people a summary
view.

Such, my dear sir, is the infatuation of a great
part of our community, that it will be policy in our
government to do a great deal too much to make the
idea palpable that rupture was inevitable. Adieu.

Yours truly, etc.

If the statement is published, I would close with
the words ''January last" in the last paragraph.
The residue will make a good separate newspaper
paragraph. Pray, who is the emigrant alluded to?

l--'

Private Correspondence 251

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

April 5, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of March 31st. I hope
nothing in my last was misunderstood. Could it be
necessary, I would assure you that no one has a
stronger conviction than myself of the purity of the
motives which direct your public conduct, or of the
good sense and judgment by which it is guided. If
I have a fear (you will excuse my frankness), it is
lest the strength of your feelings, the companions of
energy of character, should prevent that pliancy to
circumstances which is sometimes indispensable. I
beg you only to watch yourself on this score, and the
public will always find in you an able as well as a
faithful servant.

The situation of our country, my dear sir, is sin-
gularly critical. The map of Europe is every way
discouraging. There is too much reason to appre-
hend that the Emperor of Germany, in danger from
Russia and Prussia, perhaps from the Porte, as well
as from France, may be compelled to yield to the
views of the latter. England, standing alone, may
be driven to a similar issue. It is certain that great
consternation in court and coimtry attended the in-
telligence of Bonaparte's last victories. Either to
be in rupture with France, united with England
alone, or singly, as is possible, would be a most im-
welcome situation. Divided as we are, who can say
what would be hazarded by it?

In such a situation, it appeared to me we should
rather err on the side of condescension than on the

252 Alexander Hamilton

opposite side. We ought to do every thing to avoid
rupture, without unworthy sacrifices, and to keep in
view, as a primary object, union at home.

No measure can tend more to this than an extra-
ordinary mission. And it is certain to fulfil the ends
proposed. It ought to embrace a character in whom
France and the opposition have full credit. What
risk can attend Madison, if combined, as I propose,
with Pinckney and Cabot, or such a man (two de-
ciding) ? Depend on it, Pinckney is a man of honor,
and loves his country. Cabot we both know. Be-
sides, there ought to be certain leading instructions
from which they may not deviate.

I agree with you that we have nothing to retract;
that we ought to risk every thing before we submit
to any dishonorable terms. But we may remould
our treaties. We may agree to put France on the
same footing as Great Britain by our treaty with
her. We may also liquidate, with a view to future
wars, the import of the mutual guaranty in the
treaty of alliance, substituting specific succors, and
defining the casus fcederis. But this last may or
may not be done, though with me it is a favorite
object.

Ingersol will not fulfil the object, but I would
rather have him than do nothing.

I am clearly of opinion with you that the President
shall come forward to Congress in a manly tone, and
that Congress shall adopt vigorous defensive meas-
ures. Those you propose are proper, and some
others on which I may write hereafter.

If Madison is well coupled, I do not think his

Private Correspondence 253

intrigues can operate as you imagine. Should he
advocate dishonorable concessions to France, the
public opinion will not support. His colleagues, by
address, and showing a disposition to do enough, may
easily defeat his policy, and maintain the public con-
fidence. Besides that, it is possible too much may
be taken for granted with regard to Mr. Madison.

TO WILLIAM SMITH

New York, April 5, 1797.

I have received, my dear sir, your letter of the 2d
of April, (1797,) with your little work accompanying
it, which I shall read with the interest I take in the
author, the first leisure hour. I have cast my eye
over it, and like very much the plan.

Our affairs are indeed very critical. But I am
sorry to find that I do not agree with several of my
friends. I am clearly of opinion for an extraordinary
mission, and as clearly that it should embrace Madi-
son. I do not think we ought to construe the de-
claration of the Directory against receiving a Minister
Plenipotentiary, as an extraordinary mission pro hac
vice. And if it does, it would be no reason with me
against it. I would accumulate the proofs of French
violence, and demonstrate to all our citizens that
nothing possible has been omitted. That a certain
party desires it is with me a strong reason for it —
since I would disarm them of all plea that we
have not made every possible effort for peace. The
idea is a plausible one, that as we sent an Envoy

254 Alexander Hamilton

Extraordinary to Britain, so we ought to send one
to France. And plausible ideas are always enough
for the multitude.

, These and other reasons (and principally to avoid
rupture with a political monster, which seems des-
tined soon to have no competitor but England)
make me even anxious for an extraordinary mission.

And to produce the desired effect, it seems to me
essential that it shall embrace a distinguished char-
acter agreeable to France, and having the confidence
of the adverse party. Hence I think of Madison,
but I think of him only as onCy because I would not
trust him alone. I would unite with him Pinckney,
and some strong man from the North, Jay, Cabot,
• and two of the three should rule. We should then
be safe.

I need not tell you that I am disposed to make no
sacrifices to France. I had rather perish myself and
family than see the country disgraced. But I would
try hard to avoid rupture, and if that cannot be, to
unite the opinions of all good citizens of whatever
political denomination. This is with me a mighty
object.

I will give you hereafter my ideas of what ought
to be done when Congress meet. My plan ever is to
\ combine energy with moderation.

TO RUFUS KING

April 8, 1797.

I thank you, my dear sir, for your letter of the 6th
of February. The intelligence that the Directory

Private Correspondence 255

have ordered away our minister is every way un-
pleasant. It portends, too, a final rupture as the
only alternative to an ignominious submission.
Much public feeling has been excited; but the gov-
ernment, I trust and believe, will continue prudent,
and do every thing that honor permits towards ac-
commodation. It is, however, to be feared that
France, successful, will be too violent and imperious
to meet us on any admissible ground.

Congress are called together. I can give you no
conjecture as to what will be done. Opinions are
afloat. My idea is, another attempt to pacify by
negotiation, vigorous preparation for war, and de-
fensive measures with regard to our trade. But
there never was a period of our affairs in which I
could less foresee the state of things.

I believe there is no danger of want of firmness in
the Executive. If he is not ill-advised, he will not
want prudence. I mean, that he is himself disposed
to a prudently firm course.

You know the mass of our Senate. That of our
House of Representatives is not ascertained. A
small majority on the right side is counted upon.
In Virginia it is understood that Morgan comes in
place of Rutherforth, and Evans in place of Page.
The whole result of the Virginia election is not
known.

The conduct of France has been a very powerful
medicine for the political disease of our country. I
think the commimity improves in soimdness.

256 Alexander Hamilton

TO WILLIAM SMITH

April 10, 1797.

Dear Sir:

Since my last to you I have perused with great
satisfaction your little work on our governments. I
like the execution no less than the plan. If my
health and leisure should permit, I would make some
notes; but you can not depend on it, as I am not
only extremely occupied, but in feeble health.

I send you my ideas of the course of conduct
proper in our present situation. It is unpleasant to
me to know that I have for some time differed
materially from many of my friends on public sub-
jects, and I particularly regret that, at the present
critical juncture, there is in my apprehension much
danger that sensibility will be an overmatch for
policy. We seem now to feel and reason as the
Jacobins did when Great Britain insulted and in-
jured us, though certainly we have at least as much
need of a temperate conduct now as we had then. I
only say, God grant that the public interest may not
be sacrificed at the shrine of irritation and mistaken
pride. Farewell.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, April 13, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you.
I am just informed that an order is come to the
custom-house not to clear out any vessels if armed,
unless destined for the East Indies. Under the
present circumstances, I very much doubt the ex-

Private Correspondence 257

pediency of this measure. The excesses of France
justify passiveness in the government; and its in-
abiHty to protect the merchants requires that it
should leave them to protect themselves. Nor do
I fear that it would tend to rupture with France,
if such be not her determination otherwise. The
legality of this prohibition cannot be defended; it
must stand on its necessity. It would, I think, have
been enough to require security that the vessel is
not to be employed to cruise against any of the
belligerent powers. Perhaps even now, where ves-
sels have been armed previous to the receipt of the
prohibition, it is safe and advisable to except them
on the condition of such security. Think of this
promptly. The general measure may be further
considered at leisure. Nor am I prepared to say
that, having been taken, it ought to be revoked.

I will send you shortly some remarks in reply to
questions you propose.

TO HAMILTON

Albany, State of New York, May 2, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Some days since I received with great pleasure
your letter of the loth of March. The mark it
affords of your kind attention, and the particular
account it gives me of so many relations in Scotland
are extremely gratifying to me. You, no doubt,
have understood that my father's affairs at a very
early day went to wreck, so as to have rendered his

VOL. X.— 17.

258 Alexander Hamilton

situation during the greatest part of his life far from
eligible. This state of things occasioned a separa-
tion between him and me, when I was very young,
and threw me upon the bounty of my mother's rela-
tives, some of whom were then wealthy, though by
vicissitudes to which human affairs are so liable, they
have been since much reduced and broken up. My-
self, at about sixteen, came to this country. Having
always had a strong propensity to literary pursuits,
by a course of study and laborious exertion, I was
able, by the age of nineteen, to qualify myself for the
degree of Bachelor of Arts in the College of New
York, and to lay the foundation by preparatory
study for the future profession of the law.

The American Revolution supervened. My prin-
ciples led me to take part in it ; at nineteen, I entered
into the American army as captain of artillery.
Shortly after I became, by his invitation, aide-de-
camp to General Washington, in which station I
served till the commencement of that campaign
which ended with the siege of York in Virginia, and
the capture of Comwallis' army. The campaign I
made at the head of a corps of light infantry, with
which I was present at the siege of York, and en-
gaged in some interesting operations.

At the period of the peace with Great Britain I
found myself a member of Congress, by appointment
of the legislature of this State.

After the peace, I settled in the city of New York,
in the practice of the law, and was in a very lucrative
course of practice, when the derangement of our pub-
lic affairs, by the feebleness of the general confedera-

Private Correspondence 259

tion, drew me again reluctantly into public life. I
became a member of the Convention which framed
the present Constitution of the United States; and
having taken part in this measure, I conceived my-
self to be under an obligation to lend my aid towards
putting the machine in some regular motion. Hence,
I did not hesitate to accept the offer of President
Washington to undertake the office of Secretary of
the Treasury.

In that office I met with many intrinsic difficulties,
and many artificial ones, proceeding from passions,
not very worthy, common to human nature, and
which act with peculiar force in republics. The ob-
ject, however, was effected of establishing public
credit and introducing order in the finances.

Public office in this country has few attractions.
The pecimiary emolument is so inconsiderable as to
amount to a sacrifice to any man who can employ his
time with advantage in any liberal profession. The
opportunity of doing good, from the jealousy of
power and the spirit of faction, is too small in any
station to warrant a long continuance of private
sacrifices. The enterprises of party had so far suc-
ceeded as materially to weaken the necessary influ-
ence and energy of the executive authority, and so
far diminish the power of doing good in that depart-
ment, as greatly to take away the motives which a
virtuous man might have for making sacrifices. The
prospect was even bad for gratifying in future the
love of fame, if that passion was to be the spring of
action.

The union of these motives, with the reflections of

26o Alexander Hamilton

prudence in relation to a growing family, determined
me as soon as my plan had attained a certain ma-
turity, to withdraw from office. This I did by a re-
signation about two years since, when I resumed the
profession of the law in the city of New York under
every advantage I could desire.

It is a pleasant reflection to me, that since the
commencement of my connection with General
Washington to the present time, I have possessed a
flattering share of his confidence and friendship.

Having given you a brief sketch of my political
career, I proceed to some further family details.

In the year 1780, I married the second daughter of
General Schuyler, a gentleman of one of the best
families of this country, of large fortune, and no less
personal and political consequence. It is impossible
to be happier than I am in a wife; and I have five
children, four sons and a daughter, the eldest a son
somewhat past fifteen, who all promise as well as
their years permit, and yield me much satisfaction.
Though I have been too much in public life to be
wealthy, my situation is extremely comfortable, and
leaves me nothing to wish for but a continuance of
health. With this blessing, the profits of my pro-
fession and other prospects authorize an expectation
of such addition to my resources, as will render the
eve of life easy and agreeable ; so far as may depend
on this consideration.

It is now several months since I have heard from
my father, who continued at the island of St. Vin-
cent. My anxiety at this silence would be greater
than it is, were it not for the considerable interrup-

Private Correspondence 261

tion and precariousness of intercourse which is pro-
duced by the war.

I have strongly pressed the old gentleman to come
and reside with me, which would afford him every
enjoyment of which his advanced age is capable;
but he has declined it on the ground that the advice
of his physicians leads him to fear that the change of
climate would be fatal to him. The next thing for
me is, in proportion to my means, to endeavor to
increase his comforts where he is.

It will give me the greatest pleasure to receive
your son Robert at my house in New York, and still
more to be of use to him ; to which end, my recom-
mendation and interest will not be wanting, and I
hope not unavailing. It is my intention to embrace
the opening which your letter affords me to extend
my intercourse with my relations in your country,
which will be a new source of satisfaction to me.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

May II, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

On my return here I found your letter of the 29th.
The sitting of a court of chancery, and important
business there, have unavoidably delayed a reply;
now, it must be much more cursory than I could
wish.

As to the mission, in some shape or other, the more
I have reflected upon it, the more has it appeared to
me indispensable. To accomplish, with certainty,

262 Alexander Hamilton

a principal object of it — the silencing of Jacobin
i criticism, and promoting union amxong ourselves, —
it is very material to engage in it a person who will
have the Jacobin confidence; else, if France should
still refuse to receive, or if receiving, the mission
should prove unsuccessful, it will be said that this
was because a suitable agent was not employed.
Hence, my mind was led to Jefferson or Madison;
but, as it would be unsafe to trust either alone, the
idea of associates occurs as an essential part of the
plan. This, likewise, is an expedient for saving Mr.
Pinckney's feelings.

But will either of them go on this footing? If
offered, and they refuse, they will put themselves in
the wrong; for on so great an emergency, they can-
not justifiably decline the service without a good
reason; and it would not be a good reason for re-
fusal, that there was to be a commission. The re-
fusal, too, if it happened, would furnish a reply to
Jacobin clamor. It was offered to your leaders, and
they would not act.

I confide in Pinckney's integrity and federal at-
tachments; why, then, name a third? Because,
first, two may disagree, and there may be inaction.
Second, though I have the confidence I mention, I
■. think Pinckney has had too much French leaning to
consider him, in conjunction with Jefferson or Mad-
ison, as perfectly safe. A third on whom perfect
reliance could be placed would secure Pinckney 's co-
operation. I do consider him, as in some sort, a
middle character.

As to the two gentlemen named (Jefferson and

Private Correspondence 263

Madison), it may be fairly observed to either of
them that the combination of character is essential
to combine the confidence of the country, and to
render the result, whatever it may be, acceptable.
It may also be observed that delicacy to Mr. Pinck-
ney dictates this course — not to exclude him after
what has happened. To Mr. Pinckney the state of
parties here may also be pleaded.

The French Directory may also be made to under-
stand indirectly that the association has proceeded
from a desire in the Executive to unite confidence
in the mission and secure its success at home.

I should not despair that in such a crisis men of
opposite politics might agree. I verily believe that
Jefferson, Pinckney, and King would agree. There
might be a joint commission for action and a sepa-
rate commission to Jefferson as envoy or ambassador
extraordinary for representation.

I miscalculate if Jefferson will not be anxious for
peace. I only fear that alone he would give too
much for it.

If this plan is thought liable to too strong objec-
tions, the next best thing is to send the commission
of ambassador extraordinary to Pinckney, and send
him also some clever fellow as secretary of embassy.

But I repeat it with extreme solicitude, another
mission is absolutely indispensable.

On the subject of permitting our vessels to arm,
there is some difficulty. You are right in the idea
that merchant vessels under the convoy of ships-of-
war are exempt from search. But I know no book
where it is to be found. Yet I have so constantly

v^^

264 Alexander Hamilton

understood it to be the usage, that I venture to rely
upon it. But I believe the privilege is confined
to public ships of war, and could not, according
to usage, be transferred to private armed vessels.
The measure must, therefore, be justified by the
extremity.

Moreover^ I understand no other consequence as
resulting from the being armed than that it exposes
the vessel to confiscation for resisting a search. It
is no breach of neutrality to permit the being armed.

But I would avoid the formality of a commission,
and would substitute some permit, perhaps to be
signed by the head of a department. This should
be united with great precautions to prevent abuse by
cruising, by driving contraband trade by transfers to
foreigners.

At all events our trade must have protection ; for
our whole mercantile capital will else be destroyed,
our seamen lost, and our country involved in ex-
treme distress.

As to a provisional army, I reason thus: no plan of
a militia which is not the equivalent, in other words,
which is not under a positive engagement to con-
stitute a permanent army in case of invasion, will be
worth any thing. For we want a stable force created
beforehand to oppose to the first torrent, which, with
mere militia, would involve incalculable dangers and
calamities. Hence, as a substitute for a standing
army, I offer a provisional one. It would be com-
posed thus : the officers to be appointed by the United
States and rank with those of the establishment, to
receive some pay till called into actual service — say

Private Correspondence 265

half, a third, or a fourth; those employed to recruit
to be fully paid.

The men to be regularly enlisted upon condition
not to be called into actual service, except in case of
invasion, and then to serve during the war; to re-
ceive a uniform coat and a dollar, perhaps two dollars
per month when not in the field; to be obliged to
assemble for exercise so many days in the year, and
then to have full pay and rations; when called into
actual service to have the same compensations, etc.,
with the establishment; in short, to become part of
it. To be armed by the United States ; to be liable
from the beginning to the articles of war.

I think such a corps, from the certainty of advan-
tage, and the uncertainty of service, might be engaged
sooner than a standing force, and, with precautions
in the enlistment, would be a solid resource in case
of need.

I am much attached to the idea of a large corps of
efficient cavalry, and I cannot allow this character to
militia. It is all-important to an undisciplined
against a disciplined army. It is a species of force
not easy to be brought by an invader — ^by which his
supplies may be cut off and his activity extremely
checked. Were I to command an imdisciplined
army, I should prefer half the force with a good corps
of cavalry to twice the force without one.

;

!,<

266 Alexander Hamilton

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

Satiirday, May 13, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

Mr. Goodhue takes on with him a Boston paper,
the printer of which states that he has obtained, by
a ship just arrived, a London paper of March 24th,
mentioning in positive terms an account just received
from the Emperor, that in consequence of a com-
bination between Prussia and France, he is driven to
the necessity of making an immediate peace for the
safety of the empire; that in consequence of this, the
king, who was at Windsor, had been sent for, etc.

The manner of announcing it is too positive to allow
much doubt that the thing is substantially true.

This intelligence confirms the expediency of a
further attempt to negotiate, but I hope it will not
carry us too far. A firm and erect countenance
must be maintained, and the vigor of preparation
increased. Safety can only be found in uniting
energy with moderation. Honor certainly is only to
be found there, and either as a man or citizen, I, for
one, had rather perish than submit to disgrace.

TO RUFUS KING % - ^^H^ '^^

J\ine 6, 1797.

I thank you, my dear sir, for two letters lately re-
ceived from you, the last by Mr. Church. I feel very
guilty for my negligence. But how can I help it?

The public prints will inform you of the course of
public proceedings hitherto. You will perceive that
the general plan is analogous to what was done in the

Private Correspondence 267

case of Great Britain, though there are faults in the
detail. Some people cannot learn that the only
force which befits a government is in the thought and
action, not in words, and many reverse the golden
rule. I fear we shall do ourselves no honor in the
result, and we shall remain at the mercy of events,
without those efficient preparations which are de-
manded by so precarious situations ; and which, not
provoking war, would put us in condition to meet it.
All the consolation I can give is, that the public
temper of this coimtry mends daily, and that there
is no final danger of our submitting tamely to the
yoke of France.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

Jiine 6, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

You some time ago put a question to me which,
through hurry I never answered, viz. — whether
there can be any distinction between the provision
in the treaty with Great Britain respecting British
debts and that respecting spoliations as to the power
of the commissioners to rejudge the decisions of the
courts f I answer that I can discover none.

I am of the opinion, however, that in the exercise
of this power two principles ought to be strenuously
insisted upon. One — that the commissioners ought
not to intermeddle but when it is unequivocally ascer-
tained that justice cannot now be obtained through
our courts. The other — that there ought to be no
revision of the question of interest where abate-
ments were made by juries undirected by any special

268 Alexander Hamilton

statute. For it is certain that interest is capable of
being affected by circumstances, and that the law
leaves a considerable discretion on this point with
juries. I take it for granted also, that where com-
promises were made between creditor and debtor
without the intervention of courts, or the injunctions
of positive law, there will be no revision. This is all
a very delicate subject, one upon which great mod-
eration on the part of the British commissioners is
very important to future harmony.

I like very well the course of Executive conduct
in regard to the controversy with France, and I like
the answer of the Senate in regard to the President's
speech.

But I confess, I have not been well satisfied with
the answer reported in the House. It contains too
many hard expressions; and hard words are very
rarely useful in public proceedings. Mr. Jay and
other friends here have been struck in the same man-
ner with myself. We shall not regret to see the
answer softened down. Real firmness is good for
every thing. Strut is good for nothing.

Last session I sent Sedgwick, with request to
communicate to you, my project of a building tax.
Enclosed is the rough sketch. I do not know whether
there was any alteration in the copy sent to him.

But the more I reflect, the more I become con-
vinced that some such plan ought to be adopted,
and the idea of valuation dropped, and I have also
become convinced that the idea of a tax on land
ought to be deferred. The building tax can be ac-
commodated to the quota-mle. For what were in-

Private Correspondence 269

tended as rates may be considered as ratios of each
individual's tax only, and then, as the aggregate of
these ratios within a State is to the sum of the ratios
on a particular building, so will the sum to be raised
in the State be to the sum to be paid by the owner
of that building, and so the very bad business of
valuations may be avoided in general. In regard to
stores y if they are comprehended, rents or valuations
may be adopted, and these rents may also be repre-
sented by ratios equivalent to the proportion of the
specific ratios to the rents of houses to be estimated
in the law.

If these ideas are not clear I will on your desire
give a further explanation.

My plans of ways and means then for the present
would be :

A tax on buildings equal to $1,000,000

On stamps, including a small percentage on
policies of insurance and a percentage on
collateral successions 500,000

A duty on hats, say 5 per cent, for the com-
monest kind, 10 per cent, for the middling,
and 20 for the best, to be decided by the
materials

On saddle-horses dollars per horse 250,000

On salt, so much as will make the whole duty

25 cents — suppose 250,000

$2,000,000

I should like also a remodification of the duties
on licenses to sell spirituous liquors by multiplying
discriminations .

270 Alexander Hamilton

I would then open a loan for five millions of dol-
lars, to be repaid absolutely within five years, upon
which I would allow a high interest, say eight per
cent., payable quarterly, and redeemable at pleasure
by paying off, and I would accept subscriptions as
low as one hundred dollars. In case of pressure.
Treasury-bills bearing a like interest may be used.

If unfortunately war breaks out, then every prac-
ticable object of taxation should at once be seized
hold of, so as to carry our revenue in the first in-
stance to the extent of our ability. Nor is the field
narrow.

I give you my ideas full gallop and without man-
agement of expression. I hope you always under-
stand me a-right and receive my communications as
they are intended, in the spirit of friendly frankness.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

June 8, 1797.

Dear Sir:

I have received your two letters of the 6th and
7th. The last announced to me no more than I
feared. Nor do I believe any sufficient external im-
pulse can be given to save us from disgrace. This,
however, will be thought of.

I regret that you appear remote from the idea of
a house tax simply, without combining the land. I
do not differ from your general principle. The truth
is a solid one that the sound state of political economy
depends, in a great degree, on a general repartition
of taxes on taxable property, by some equal rule.

Private Correspondence 271

But it is very important to relax in theory, so as to
accomplish as much as may be practicable. I de-
spair of a general land tax without actual war. I
fear the idea of it ; it keeps men from the augmenta-
tion of re/enue by other means which they might be
willing to adopt. The idea of a house tax alone is
not so formidable. If placed upon a footing which
would evince practicability and moderation in the
sum, I think it might succeed. Now, one million of
dollars, computing the number of houses at six hun-
dred thousand, would be an average of about a dollar
and a half. The tax would be very low on the worst
houses, and could not be high on the best. This idea
would smooth a great deal.

As to the circumstance of the habitations of the
Southern negroes, I see no insuperable difficulty in
applying ratios to them which would tend to indi-
vidual equity. As between the States, the quota
principle would make this point unimportant.

As to the inequality in certain States, I believe,
on the plan suggested, there could be no general tax
which in fact would operate more equally. The
idea of equalization by embracing lands does not
much engage my confidence. Besides that, this
may be an after-object, and we are to gain points
successively.

As to the productiveness of the stamp tax, with
the items I suggest, it is difficult, in the first instance,
to judge. But I am persuaded it would go far to-
wards the point aimed at. There cannot be much
fewer than three millions of hats consumed in a year
in this country. At an average of eight cents per

272 Alexander Hamilton

hat, this would be two hundred and forty thousand
dollars, a large proportion of the five hundred thou-
sand dollars. If law proceedings can be included,
directly or indirectly, the produce will be very con-
siderable. I think you mistake when you say these
taxes in England are inconsiderable in proportion.
According to my recollection, the reverse is the truth.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

August 27, 1797.

Dear Sir:

Some time since I received the enclosed, being
directions concerning measures requisite to be pur-
sued to obtain indemnification in case of capture by
British cruisers. I laid it by in haste, and have since
overlooked it. I do not recollect to have seen it in
the newspapers, and yet it appeared to me necessary
that it should be so. As it came to me from some
one of our public characters in London, I presume
you must have received the equivalent. I am
curious to know if this has been the case, and if any
thing has been done upon it.

After perusal, and making such use as you may
think proper, you will oblige me by returning it.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, August 28, 1797.

My Dear Sir:

The receipt two days since of your letter of the 21st
instant gave me sincere pleasure. The token of your

Private Correspondence 273

regard which it announces is very precious to me, and
will always be remembered as it ought to be.

Mrs. Hamilton has lately added another boy to
our stock; she and the child are both well. She
desires to be affectionately remembered to Mrs.
Washington and yourself.

We have nothing new here more than our papers
contain, but are anxiously looking forward to a
further development of the negotiations in Europe,
with an ardent desire for general accommodation.
It is at the same time agreeable to observe that the
public mind is adopting more and more sentiments
truly American, and free from foreign tincture.

I beg my best respects to Mrs. Washington.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

November 20, 1797.

Dear Sir:

Give me leave to remind you of your promise to
send me the documents and information which au-
thenticate the situation of Mr. Beaumarchais as to
the unaccounted-for million.

Allow me also to mention to you another point. I
hear there is a plan among the directors of the bank
to transfer the management of their concerns from
the house of Cazenove to that of Baring. When the
arrangement was originally upon the tapis, I felt
some preference to the house of Baring as of more
known solidity. But after its having taken a differ-
ent course I should regret a change unless upon
grounds which I am persuaded do not exist — cir-

VOL. X— 18.

2 74 Alexander Hamilton

cumstances of insecurity in the conduct of affairs of
the existing agents. I verily believe they unite pru-
dence and solidity. The change might, without
cause, injure their credit and do them positive harm.
It was one thing to have entrusted them in the first
instance. It is another to recall that trust, which
neither justice nor the reputation of the bank will
countenance, but for valid reasons of change of
opinion. My friendship for Mr. Cazenove, the
father, corresponds with my sense of propriety, to
induce the wish that you may see fit to exert your
influence in every proper way to prevent a change.^

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

1797.

Dear Sir:

I thank you for your last letter. The opinion with
regard to the conduct of the President is very im-
portant.

As to our finances, all will be well if our councils
are wise and vigorous; if not, all will go to. ruin. I
fear there is not among the friends sufficient capa-
ciousness of views for the greatness of the occasion.

I send the enclosed because it requires correction.^

TO rufus king

(Probably March, 1798.)

It is a great while, my dear friend, since I have
written to you a line. You will not, I am sure, im-

* Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

Private Correspondence 275

pute my silence to any cause impeaching my friend-
ship, for that must be always cordial and entire.
The truth is that my professional avocations occupy
me to the extent of the exertions my health permits,
and I have been unwilling to sit down to write you
without leisure to say some thing interesting. But
I now depart from the rule, that my persevering
silence may not make me sin beyond redemption. I
have, however, only time to tell you that your friends
are generally well, and as much attached to you as
ever, and that I hear of no cabals against you.

Being just returned from Albany, I would say
nothing about the political juncture as it is affected
by the unpleasant advices from our commissioners
in France. I will only say, that the public mind is
much sounder than that of our representatives in the
national council, and that there is no danger of our
entirely disgracing ourselves — that is, by any un-
worthy compliances with the exorbitant pretensions , ^^^
of ''The Great Monster." '

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, March 17, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I make no apology for offering you my opinion on
the present state of our affairs.

I look upon the question before the public as
nothing less than whether we shall maintain our
independence; and I am prepared to do it in every

* Soi-disant, "The Great Nation."

276 Alexander Hamilton

event, and at every hazard. I am therefore of
opinion that our Executive should come forth on
this basis.

I wish to see a temperate, but grave, solemn, and
firm communication from the President to the two
houses on the result of the advices from our com-
missioners; this communication to review sum-
marily the course of our affairs with France from the
beginning to the present moment; to advert to her
conduct towards the neutral powers generally, dwell-
ing emphatically on the last decree respecting vessels
carrying British manufactures, as an unequivocal act
of hostility against all of them ; to allude to the dan-
gerous and vast projects of the French government;
to consider her refusal to receive our ministers as a
virtual denial of our independence, and as evidence
that, if circumstances favor the plan, we shall be
called to defend that independence, our political in-
stitutions, and our liberty, against her enterprises;
to conclude, that leaving still the door to accommo-
dation open, and not proceeding to final rupture, our
duty, our honor, and safety, require that we shall
take vigorous and comprehensive measures of de-
fence, adequate to the immediate protection of our
commerce, to the security of our ports, and to our
eventual defence in case of invasion, and with a view
to these great objects, calling forth and organizing all
the resources of the country. I would, at the same
time, have the President to recommend a day of fast-
ing, humiliation, and prayer. The occasion renders
it proper, and religious ideas will be useful. I have
this last measure at heart.

^e t

Private Correspondence 277

The measures to be advocated by our friends in
Congress to be these:

I. — Permission to our merchant vessels to arm and
to capture those which may attack them.

II. — The completion of our frigates, and the pro-
vision of a considerable number of sloops-of-war
not exceeding twenty guns. Authority to capture
all attacking, and privateers found within twenty
leagues of our coast.

III. — Power to the President, in general terms, to ^ -^
provide and equip ten ships of the line in case of open ^^_ .
rupture with any foreign power. \^ /f/_

IV. — The increase of our military establishment '^J- ^'
to twenty thousand, and a provisional army of '^^^^'^
thirty thousand, besides the militia. <./

V. — The efficacious fortification of our principal
ports, say Portsmouth, Boston, Newport, New Lon-
don, New York, Philadelphia, Norfolk, Baltimore,
Wilmington, N. C, Charleston, Savannah. It is
waste of money to be more diffusive.

VI. — The extension of our revenue to all the prin-
cipal objects of taxation, and a loan commensurate
with the contemplated expenditures.

VII. — Th^ suspension of our treaties with France
till a basis of connection shall be re-established by
treaty.

In my opinion, bold language and bold measures
are indispensable. The attitude of calm defiance
suits us. It is vain to talk of peace with a power
with which we are actually in hostility. The elec-
tion is between a tame surrender of our rights or a
state of mitigated hostility. Neither do I think that

278 Alexander Hamilton

this state will lead to general rupture if France is
unsuccessful; and if successful, there is no doubt
in my mind that she will endeavor to impose her
yoke upon us.

P. S. — If Robert Troup resigns his office of district
judge, the President cannot make a better choice
than of Samuel Jones, Esq., the present Comptroller
of the State. I imderstand he will accept.

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

March, 1798.

The President ought to make a solemn and manly
communication to Congress — the language grave and
firm, but without invective, in which, after recapitu-
lating the progress of our controversy with France,
the measures taken toward accommodation, and
stating their degrading result, he ought to advert to
the extremely critical posture of Europe, the exces-
sive pretensions of France externally, her treatment
of the neutral powers generally, and dwelling em-
phatically on the late violent invasion of their com-
merce, as an act destructive of the independence of
nations, to state that eventual dangers of the most
serious kind hang over us, and that we ought to
consider ourselves as bound to provide with the ut-
most energy for the immediate security of our in-
vaded rights, and for the ultimate defence of our
liberty and independence, and conclude with a
recommendation in general terms to adopt efficient

Private Correspondence 279

measures for increasing our revenue, for protecting
our commerce, for guarding our sea-ports, and ulti-
mately for repelling invasion; intimating also, that
the relations of treaty which have subsisted between
us and France, and which have been so entirely dis-
regarded by her, ought not to remain by our Con-
stitution and laws binding upon us, but ought to be
suspended in their operations, till an adjustment of
differences shall re-establish a basis of connection
and intercourse between two countries, taking espe-
cial care, however, that merely defensive views be
indicated.'

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

(Post-marked March 23, 1798.)

My Dear Sir:

I understand that the Senate have called upon the
President for papers. Nothing certainly can be more
proper ; and such is the universal opinion here ; and
it appears to me essential that as much as possible
can be commimicated. Confidence will otherwise be
wanting, and criticism will ensue which it will be
difficult to repel. The observation is that Congress
are called upon to discharge the most important of
all their functions, and that it is too much to expect
that they will rely on the influence of the Executive
from materials which may be put before them. The
recent examples of the British king are cited. Pray,
let all that is possible be done.

I Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vii., 114.

28o Alexander Hamilton

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

lo o'clock, Tuesday, March 27, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I have this moment received your two favors of
the 25th. I am delighted with their contents, but
it is impossible for me to reply particularly to them
so as to reach you to-morrow as you desire. I will
therefore confine myself to one point. I am against
going immediately into alliance with Great Britain.
It is my opinion that her interests will insure us her
co-operation to the extent of her power, and that
a treaty will not secure her further. On the other
hand, a treaty might entangle us. Public opinion
is not prepared for it. It would not fail to be repre-
sented as to the point to which our previous conduct
was directed; and, in case of offers from France satis-
factory to us, the public faith might be embarrassed
by the calls of the people for accommodation and
peace.

The desideratum is that Britain could be engaged
to lodge with her minister here powers commensurate
with such arrangement as exigencies may require
and the progress of opinion permit. I see no good
objection on her part to this plan.

It would be good policy in her to send to this
( country a dozen frigates to pursue the directions of
V."^ \^ \ this government.

If Spain would cede Louisiana to the United
States, I would accept it absolutely if obtainable
absolutely, or with an engagement to restore, if it
cannot be obtained absolutely. I shall write again
to-morrow.

Private Correspondence 281

TO JOHN JAY

New York, April 24, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I have received your two favors of the 19th in-
stant. I feel, as I ought, the mark of confidence
they announce. But I am obhged by my situation
to dechne the appointment. This situation you are
too well acquainted with to render it necessary for
me to enter into explanation. There may arrive a
crisis when I may conceive myself bound once more
to sacrifice the interests of my family to public call.
But I must defer the change as long as possible.

I do not at present think of a person to recom-
mend adapted to the emergency. I shall reflect and
consult, and write you by the next post. This, the
first day, is not decisive of our election here, but
there is as yet nothing to discourage/

TO JAMES McHENRY

May 17, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I have received your letter of the 12th instant.
Not having seen the law which provides the naval
armament, I cannot tell whether it gives any new
power to the President; that is, any power what-
ever with regard to the employment of the ships.
If not, and he is left at the foot of the Constitution,
as I understand to be the case, I am not ready to say
that he has any other power than merely to employ
the ships as convoys, with authority to repel force

''Jay was at this time Governor of New York, and he had written
Hamilton, asking his permission to appoint hira U. S. Senator in place
of Judge Hobart, who had resigned.

282 Alexander Hamilton

by force (but not to capture), and to repress hos-
tilities within our waters, including a marine league
from our coasts.

Any thing beyond this must fall under the idea of
reprisals, and requires the sanction of that depart-
ment which is to declare or make war.

In so delicate a case, in one which involves so im-
portant a consequence as that of war, my opinion is
that no doubtful authority ought to be exercised by
the President; but, that as different opinions about
his power have been expressed in the House of
Representatives, and no special power has been
given by the law, it will be expedient for him, and
his duty, and the true policy of the conjuncture, to
come forward by a message to the two houses of
Congress, declaring that ''so far and no farther'' he
feels himself confident of his authority to go in the
employment of the naval force ; that as, in his opin-
ion, the depredations on our trade demand a more
extensive protection, he has thought it his duty to
bring the subject under the review of Congress by
a communication of his opinion of his own powers,
having no desire to exceed the constitutional limits.

This course w^U remove all clouds as to what the
President will do ; will gain him credit for frankness
and an unwillingness to chicane the Constitution,
and will return upon Congress the question in a
shape which cannot be eluded.

I presume you will have heard before this reaches
you that a French privateer has made captures at
the mouth of our harbor. This is too much humilia-
tion after all that has passed.

Private Correspondence 283

Our merchants are very indignant; our govern-
ment very prostrate in the view of every man of
energy.

TO RUFUS KING

May, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

It is a great while since I received a line from
you, nor, indeed, have I deserved one; the vortex of
business in which I have been having kept me from
writing to you. At this moment, I presume, you
will not be sorry to know my opinion as to the course
of our public affairs.

In Congress a good spirit is gaining ground, and,
though measures march slowly, there is reason to
expect that almost every thing which the exigency
requires will be done. The plan is present defence
against depredations by sea, and preparations for
eventual danger by land. In the community, in-
dignation against the French Government, and a
firm resolution to support our own, discover them-
selves daily by unequivocal symptoms. The ap-
pearances are thus far highly consoling.

But, in this posture of things, how unfortunate is
it that the new instructions offered by Great Britain,
which appear, according to the reports of the day,
to be giving rise to many abusive captures of our
vessels, are likely to produce a counter-current, and
to distract the public dissatisfaction between two
powers, who, it will be said, are equally disposed to
plunder and oppress. In vain will it be urged that
the British Government cannot be so absurd as at

284 Alexander Hamilton

such a juncture to intend us injury. The effects
will be alone considered, and they will make the
worst possible impression. By what fatality has the
British Cabinet been led to spring any new mine, by
new regulations, at such a crisis of affairs? What can
be gained to counteract the mischievous tendency
of abuses? Why are weapons to be furnished to
our Jacobins ?

It seems the captured vessels are carried to the
Mole, where there is a virtuous judge, of the name
of Cambault, disposed to give sanction to plunder
in every shape. Events are not yet sufficiently
unfolded to enable us to judge of the extent of the
mischief, but nothing can be more unlucky than that
the door has been opened. The recency of the thing
may prevent your hearing any thing about it from
the government by this opportunity.

P. S. — It is said privateers are fitting out at An-
tigua and St. Kitts.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, May 19, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

At the present dangerous crisis of public affairs, I
make no apology for troubling you with a political
letter. Your impressions of our situation, I am per-
suaded, are not different from mine. There is cer-
tainly great probability that we may have to enter
into a very serious struggle with France; and it is
more and more evident that the powerful faction
which has for years opposed the government, is

Private Correspondence 285

determined to go every length with France. I am
sincere in declaring my full conviction, as the result
of a long course of observation, that they are ready
to new-model our Constitution under the influence
or coercion of France, to form with her a perpetual
alliance, offensive and defensive, and to give her a
monopoly of our trade by peculiar and exclusive
privileges. This would be in substance, whatever it
might be in name, to make this country a province
of France. / Neither do I doubt that her standard,
displayed in this country, would be directly or in-
directly seconded by them, in pursuance of the pro-
ject I have mentioned.

It is painful and alarming to remark, that the
opposition faction assumes so much a geographical
complexion. As yet, from the south of Maryland
nothing has been heard but accounts of disappro-
bation of our government, and approbation of or
apology for France. This is a most portentous symp-
tom, and demands every human effort to change it.

In such a state of public affairs, it is impossible not
to look up to you, and to wish that your influence
could in some proper mode be brought into direct
action. Among the ideas which have passed through
my mind for this purpose, I have asked myself
whether it might not be expedient for you to make a
circuit through Virginia and North Carolina, under
some pretence of health, etc. This would call forth
addresses, public dinners, etc., which would give
you an opportunity of expressing sentiments in an-
swers, toasts, etc., which would throw the weight of
your character into the scale of the government, and

286 Alexander Hamilton

revive an enthusiasm for your person, that may be
turned into the right channel.

I am aware that the step is delicate, and ought to
be well considered before it is taken. I have even
not settled my own' opinion as to its propriety, but I
have concluded to bring the general idea under your
view, confident that your judgment will make a
right choice; and that you will take no step which
is not well calculated. The conjuncture, however, is
extraordinary, and now, or very soon, will demand
extraordinary measures.

You ought also to be aware, my dear sir, that in
the event of an open rupture v/ith France, the public
voice will again call you to command the armies of
your country; and, though all who are attached to
you will, from attachment, as w^ell as from public
considerations, deplore an occasion which should
once more tear you from that repose to which you
have so good a right, yet it is the opinion of all those
with whom I converse, that you will be compelled
to make the sacrifice. All your past labor may de-
mand to give it efficacy this further, this very great
sacrifice. Adieu, my dear sir.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, June 2, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I have before me your favor of the 27th of May.
The suggestion in my last was an indigested thought,
begotten by my anxiety. I have no doubt that
your view of it is accurate and well founded.

It is a great satisfaction to me to ascertain what I

Private Correspondence 287

had anticipated in hope, that you are not deter-
mined in an adequate emergency against affording
once more your mihtary services. There is no one
but yourself that v^ould unite the pubhc confidence
in such an emergency, independent of other con-
siderations, and it is of the last importance that this
confidence should be full and complete. As to the
wish of the country, it is certain that it will be ardent
and universal. You intimate a desire to be in-
formed what would be my part in such an event as
to entering into military service. I have no scruple
about opening myself to you on this point. If I am
invited to a station in which the service I may render
may he proportionate to the sacrifice I am to make, I
shall be willing to go into the army. If you com-
mand, the place in which I should hope to be most
useful is that of Inspector-General, with a command
in the line. This I would accept. The public must
judge for itself as to whom it will employ, but every
individual must judge for himself as to the terms on
which he will serve, and consequently must estimate
his own pretensions.

I have no knowledge of any arrangement contem-
plated, but I take it for granted the service of all the
former officers worth having may be commanded,
and that your choice would regulate the Executive.
With decision and care in the selection an excellent
army may be formed.

The view you give of the prospects in the South is
very consoling. The public temper seems every-
where to be travelling to a right point. This prom- ' / ^'
ises security to the country in every event.

-/

x4

288 Alexander Hamilton

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Jtine 5, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

The answer from the President to the Commander-
in-Chief, etc., of New Jersey, contains in the close
a very indifferent passage. The sentiment is intem-
perate and revolutionary. It is not for us, par-
ticularly for the government, to breathe an irregular
or violent spirit. Hitherto I have much liked the
President's answers, as, in the main, within proper
bounds, and calculated to animate and raise the
public mind. But there are limits which must not
be passed, and from my knowledge of the ardor of
the President's mind, and this specimen of the effects
of that ardor, I begin to be apprehensive that he
may run into indiscretion. This will do harm to the
government, to the cause, and to himself. Some
hint must be given, for we must make no mistakes.

Enclosed is a sketch of some ideas which have run
through my mind. They are perhaps none of them
new, but they are offered as the evidence of my opin-
ion on the point. As yet we are far short of the
point of vigor.

■•J •

Further measures advisable to be taken without delay.

^^ First. — To authorize the President to proceed
t-^ forthwith to raise the ten thousand men already

ordered.

Secondly. — To establish an academy for naval
and military instruction. This is a very important
measure, and ought to be permanent.
i'o Thirdly. — To provide for the immediate raising of

Private Correspondence 289

a corps of non-commissioned officers, viz. : sergeants
and corporals, sufficient, with the present estabHsh-
ment, for an army of fifty thousand men. The hav-
ing these men prepared and disciplined will accelerate
extremely the disciplining of an additional force.

Fourthly. — To provide, before Congress rise, that
in case it shall appear that an invasion of this country
by a large army is actually on foot, there shall be a
draft from the militia, to be classed, of a number
sufficient to complete the army of fifty thousand
men. Provision for volunteers in lieu of drafts. A
bounty to be given „

Fifthly. — To authorize the President to provide a
further naval force of six ships of the line and twelve
frigates, with twenty small vessels not exceeding
sixteen guns. It is possible the ships of the line and
frigates may be purchased of Great Britain, to be
paid for in stock. We ought to be ready to cut up
all the small privateers and gun-boats in the West
Indies, so as at the same time to distress the French
islands as much as possible, and protect our own
trade.

Sixthly. — Is not the independence of the French
colonies, und^r the guaranty of the United States, to
be aimed at? If it is, there cannot be too much
promptness in opening negotiations for the purpose.
Victor Hugues is probably an excellent subject.
This idea, however, deserves mature consideration.

Seventhly. — It is essential the Executive should
have half a million of secret-service money. If the
measure cannot be carried without it, the expendi-
ture may be with the approbation of three members

VOL. X. — 19.
Alexander Hamilton

of each house of Congress. But it were better with-
out this incumbrance.

Eighthly. — Revenue in addition to the two millions
of land tax, say :

Probable
Produce

A stamp duty on hats, as well manufactured at
home as imported, distributed into three
classes: ten, fifteen, and twenty-five cents, $500,000
Saddle-horses one dollar each, excluding those

engaged in agriculture .... 100,000
Salt, add so as to raise the present duty to

twenty-five cents per bushel.
Male servants of these capacities, by whatever
name : maUre d' hotel, house steward, valet de
chamhre, butler, under butler, confectioner^
cook, house porter, waiter, footman, coach-
man, groom, postilion, stable-boy.^
For one such servant . . . . $1
For two servants and not more . each, 2
For three servants and not more . " 3

Above three . . . . . ** 4 500,000
(One dollar additional by bachelors.)
New modification, with greater diversity of

licenses for sale of wines, etc . . . 100,000
One per cent, on all successions by descent or

devise ....... 100,000

Ninthly. — A loan of ten millions of dollars. The
interest to be such as will insure the loan at par. It
is better to give high interest redeemable at pleasure,
than low interest with accumulation of capital, as in
England.

' In lieu of tax on slaves, which is liable to much objection.

Private Correspondence 291

TO RUFUS KING

June 6, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Official information and the public papers will give
you all the information I could give of the measures
going on in this country. You will have observed
with pleasure a spirit of patriotism kindling every-
where. And you will not be sorry to know that it is
my opinion, that there will shortly be national una-
nimity, as far as that idea can ever exist. Many of
the leaders of faction will persist, and take ultimately
a station in the public estimation like that of the
tories of our revolution.

Our chief embarrassment now is, the want of
energy among some of our friends, and our councils
containing too strong an infusion of those characters
who cannot reform, and who, though a minority, are
numerous enough and artful enough to perplex and
relax. We do far less than we ought towards organ-
izing and maturing for the worst the resources of the
country. But I count that there is a progress of
opinion which will probably shortly overcome this
obstacle.

How vexatious that at such a juncture there should
be officers of Great Britain, who, actuated by a spirit
of plunder, are doing the most violent things, calcu-
lated to check the proper amount of popular feeling,
and to furnish weapons to the enemies of govern-
ment. Cambault at the Mole is acting a part quite
as bad as the Directory and their instruments. I
have seen several of his condemnations. They are
wanton beyond measure. It is not enough that his

292 Alexander Hamilton

acts are disavowed, and a late and defective redress
given through the channels of the regular courts.
Justice, and the policy of the crisis, demand that
he be decisively punished and disgraced. I think it
probable you will be instructed to require this. It
would be happy if the government where you are
would anticipate.

It is unlucky, too, that Cochran, of the Thetis, ap-
pears to be doing some ill things. The Southern
papers announce a number of captures lately made
by him, and in some instances, if they say true, on
very frivolous pretexts. The character of that gen-
tleman would lead me to hope that there is in this
some misrepresentation, but the present appearances
against him are strong.

There seems a fatality in all this. It cannot be
doubted that the British cabinet must at this time
desire to conciliate this country. It is to be hoped
they will not want vigor to do it with effect, by pun-
ishing those who contravene the object.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

June 7, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

As McHenry will probably have left Philadelphia
before this reaches that place, I take the liberty to
address the subject of it to you.

I have received a letter from Capt. Van Rensselaer,
in which he informs me that he is a candidate for
a commission on board our navy, and requests
my recommendation of it. As a connection of our

Private Correspondence 293

family, I cannot refuse it, as far as truth and pro-
priety will warrant.

When he first began his career, the young man did
things which were not pretty, but he has since that
retrieved his character by a conduct which has
rapidly raised him to the command of a ship, which
he has had of several. I have particularly inquired
concerning him, and my inquiries have been satis-
factorily answered, so that I really conclude he is
a deserving man. But of this you can be better
ascertained from persons in Philadelphia, in whose
employ I believe he has sailed.

My only intention is to request attention to
his pretensions, as far as they appear to be good,
and in the proportion which they bear to those
of other candidates. I owe this to him as a fam-
ily connection, and I may add that he is of a brave
blood.

What do the British mean? What are these
stories of the Thetis, etc. ? In my opinion, our coun-
try is now to act in every direction with spirit. Will
it not be well to order one of our frigates to Charles-
ton, to protect effectually our commerce in that
quarter, and, if necessary, control the Thetis f This
conduct will unite and animate.

P. S. — If an alien bill passes, I would like to know
what policy, in execution, is likely to govern the
Executive. My opinion is, that while the mass ought
to be obliged to leave the country, the provisions in
our treaties in favor of merchants ought to be ob-
served, and there ought to be guarded exceptions of

294 Alexander Hamilton

characters whose situation would expose them too
much if sent away, and whose demeanor amongst us
has been unexceptionable. There are a few such.
Let us not be cruel or violent.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

June 8, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Though I scarcely think it possible that the British
Administration can have given the orders which ac-
counts from various quarters attribute to them, yet
the circumstance of these accounts coming from
different quarters, and the conduct of such a man as
Capt. Cochran, make me apprehensive. I take the
liberty to express to you my opinion that it is of the
true policy as well as of the dignity of our govern-
ment, to act with spirit and energy as well toward
Great Britain as France. I would mete the same
measure to both of them, though it should ever furn-
ish the extraordinary spectacle of a nation at war
with two nations at war with each other. One of
them will quickly court us, and by this course of con-
duct our citizens will be enthusiastically united to
the government. It will evince that we are neither
Greeks nor Trojans. In very critical cases bold ex-
pedients are often necessary. Will not a pointed
call on the British Minister here to declare whether
he has any knowledge of the instructions alleged be
proper? The making this call and the answer public
may have good effect.

No one who does not see all the cards can judge

Private Correspondence 295

accurately. But I am sure the general course I in-
dicate cannot but be well.'

TO OLIVER V^OLCOTT

June 29, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I have this moment seen a bill "" brought into the
Senate, entitled "A Bill to define more particularly
the crime of Treason," etc. There are provisions in
this bill, which, according to a cursory view, appear
to me highly exceptionable, and such as, more than
any thing else, may endanger civil war. I have not
time to point out my objections by this post, but I
will do it to-morrow. I hope sincerely the thing may
not be hurried through. Let us not establish a
tyranny. Energy is a very different thing from \
violence. If we make no false step, we shall be es-
sentially united, but if we push things to an extreme,
we shall then give to faction body and solidity.

TO WASHINGTON

\ H, ■ July 8, 1798.

Dear Sir: . j^^^-'f^*

I was much surprised on my arrival here to discover
that your nomination had been without any previ-
ous consultation of you. Convinced of the good-
ness of the motives, it would be useless to scan the
propriety of the step. It is taken, and the question

^ Now first printed from the Pickering papers in possession of the
Massachusetts Historical Society.

2 The first draft or project of what afterwards became the Alien and
Sedition laws.

296 Alexander Hamilton

is, what, under the circumstances, ought to be done?
I use the liberty which my attachment to you and
to the public authorizes, to offer my opinion that you
should not decline the appointment. It is evident
that the public satisfaction at it is lively and uni-
versal. It is not to be doubted that the circum-
stance will give an additional spring to the public
mind — will tend much to unite, and will facilitate
the measures which the conjuncture requires. On
the other hand, your declining would certainly pro-
duce the opposite effects, would throw a great damp
upon the ardor of the country, inspiring the idea that
the crisis was not really serious or alarming. At
least, then, let me entreat you, and in this all your
friends, indeed, all good citizens will unite, that if
you do not give an unqualified acceptance, that you
accept provisionally, making your entering upon
the duties to depend on future events, so that the
community may look up to you as their certain
commander. But I prefer a simple acceptance.

It may be well, however, to apprise you that the
arrangement of the army may demand your par-
ticular attention. The President has no relative
ideas, and his prepossessions on military subjects in
reference to such a point are of the wrong sort. It
is easy for us to have a good army, but the selection
requires care. It is necessary to inspire confidence
in the efficient part of those who may incline to mili-
tary service. Much adherence to routine would do
great harm. Men of capacity and exertion in the
higher stations are indispensable. It deserves con-
sideration whether your presence at the seat of gov-

Private Correspondence 297

ernment is not necessary. If you will accept it will
be conceived that the arrangement is yours, and you
will be responsible for it in reputation. This, and
the influence of a right arrangement upon future
success, seem to require that you should, in one
mode or another, see efficaciously that the arrange-
ment is such as you would approve.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, July 17, 1798

My Dear Sir:

I thank you for your friendly letter by the post. 1
had not contemplated the possibility that Knox
might come into service, and was content to be sec-
ond to him, if thought indispensable. Pinckney, if
placed over me, ptits me a grade lower. I don't be-
lieve it to be necessary. I am far from certain that
he will not be content to serve under me, but I am
willing that the affair should be so managed as that
the relative ranks may remain open to future settle-
ment, to ascertain the effect of the arrangement
which has been contemplated.

I am not, however, ready to say that I shall be
satisfied with the appointment of Inspector-General,
with the rank and command of Major-General, on
the principle that every officer of high rank in the
late army, who may be appointed, is to be above me.

I am frank to own that this will not accord with
my opinion of my own pretensions, and I have every
reason to believe that it will fall far short of public
opinion.

298 Alexander Hamilton

Few have made so many sacrifices as myself. To
few would a change of situation for a military ap-
pointment be so injurious as to myself. If, with
this sacrifice, I am to be degraded below my just
claim in public opinion, ought I to acquiesce?

TO GENERAL DUPORTAIL '

New York, July 23, 1798.

My Dear General:

Though it is a great while since I have heard from
you, I have not ceased to inquire after you, and I
shall never cease to interest myself in your welfare.

You have seen the progress of things between this
country and France, and you must have made re-
flections on your own situation. I am aware that
the idea of your entering in any way into the military
service of this country, on such an occasion, is one
of great delicacy, and opposed by many motives.
But knowing your opinion as to the revolution and
revolutionary leaders of your country, I have thought
it not wholly impossible that such an idea would not
be entirely disagreeable to you, and I am desirous of
ascertaining, in the most scrupulous confidence, the
state of your mind on this point. The subject may
divide itself into employment in the field and employ-
ment out of the field.

When I take the liberty to sound you on this head,

^ The Chevalier Louis Duportail, a distinguished officer of engineers
among our French allies. He was denounced after the fall of Lafay-
ette, and fled to this country. He died on the voyage home, after the
1 8th Brumaire made it possible for him to return.

Private Correspondence 299

I ought to assure you, as is truly the case, that the
step is wholly from the suggestion of my own mind,
and that I am altogether at a loss to conjecture
whether those who must decide the matter would be
at all disposed to avail themselves of your services.
I pray you nevertheless to open to me freely your
heart on this point, in the fullest reliance upon my
prudence, honor, and delicacy. If it were not to in-
trude too much upon you, I would request you to
favor me with a digested plan of an establishment
for a military school. This is an object I have ex-
tremely at heart.

TO WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, July 29, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 14th instant did not reach me
till after the appointments mentioned in it were
made.

I see clearly in what has been done a new mark of
your confidence, which I value as I ought to do.

With regard to the delicate subject of the relative
rank of the major-generals, it is very natural for me
to be a partial judge, and it is not very easy for me
to speak upon it. If I know myself, however, this,
at least, I may say, that, were I convinced of injus-
tice being done to others in my favor, I should not
hesitate even to volunteer a correction of it, as far
as my consent would avail. But in a case like this,
am I not to take the opinion of others as my guide?
If I am, the conclusion is that the gentlemen con-
cerned ought to acquiesce. It is a fact of which

300 Alexander Hamilton

there is a flood of evidence that a great majority of
leading Federal men were of opinion that in the
event of your declining the command of the army,
it ought to devolve upon me, and that in case of
your acceptance, which everybody ardently desired,
the place of second in command ought to be mine.

It is not for me to examine the justness of this
opinion. The illusions of self-love might be ex-
pected too easily to give it credit with me. But
finding it to exist, am I at liberty to seek to post-
pone myself to others, in whose hands, according to
that opinion, the public interests would be less well
confided? Such are the reflections which would
have determined me to let the business take its
course.

My own opinion, at the same time, is, that of the
two gentlemen postponed to me, the cause of com-
plaint, if any, applies emphatically to General Knox.
His rank in the army was much higher than that
either of Pinckney or m.yself. Pinckney's preten-
sions on the score of real service are not extensive;
those of Knox are far greater. Pinckney has, no
doubt, studied tactics with great care and assiduity,
but it is not presumable that he is as well versed in
the tactics of a general as Knox.

Pinckney's rank at the close of the war was only
nominally greater than mine; it was, indeed, of more
ancient date. But when, in the year 1777, the regi-
ments of artillery were multiplied, I had good reason
to expect that the command of one of them would
have fallen to me, had I not changed my situation.
And this, in all probability, would have led further.

Private Correspondence 301

I am aware, at the same time, that there were acci-
dental impediments to Pinckney's progress in prefer-
ment, but an accurate comparison would, I imagine,
show that, on the score of rank merely, the claim of
superiority on his part is not strongly marked. As
to military service, I venture to believe that the gen-
eral understanding of the late army would allow a
considerable balance to me.

As to civil services since the war, I am extremely
'\^ mistaken if, in the minds of Federal men, there is
any comparison between us. The circumstances of
the moment, it is true, give him a certain eclat, but
judicious men reduce the merit to the two points of
judicious forbearance and the firmness not to sacrifice
his country by base compliances. In all this, it is
very far from my inclination to detract from Gen-
eral Pinckney. I have a sincere regard for him, and
hold him in high estimation. At the same time, en-
deavoring to view the matter with all the impar-
tiality which my situation permits, I must conclude
that General Pinckney, on a fair estimate of all
circumstances, ought to be well satisfied with the
arrangement.

After saying this much, I will add that regard to
the public interest is ever predominant with me;
that if the gentlemen concerned are dissatisfied, and
the service likely to suffer by the preference given to
me, I stand ready to submit our relative pretensions
to an impartial decision, and to waive the prefer-
ence. It shall never be said, with any color of truth,
that my ambition or interest has stood in the way of
the public good.

302 Alexander Hamilton

Thus, sir, have I opened my heart to you with as
little reserve as to myself, willing, rather, that its
weakness should appear than that I should be de-
ficient in frankness. I will only add that I do not
think it necessary to make public beforehand the
ultimate intentions I have now disclosed.

It is possible the difficulties anticipated may not
arise. But, my dear sir, there is a matter of far
greater moment than all this, which I must do vio-
lence to my friendship by stating to you, but of
which it is essential you should be apprised. It is
that my friend McHenry is wholly insufficient for his
place, with the additional misfortune of not having
himself the least suspicion of the fact. This gener-
ally will not surprise you, when you take into view
the large scale upon which he is now to act. But
you perhaps may not be aware of the whole extent
of the insufficiency. It is so great as to leave no
probability that the business of the War Depart-
ment can make any tolerable progress in his hands.
This has been long observed, and has been more
than once mentioned to the President by members
of Congress.

He is not insensible, I believe, that the execution
of the department does not produce the expected
results; but the case is of course delicate and em-
barrassing.

My real friendship for McHenry, concurring with
my zeal for the service, predisposed me to aid him
in all that he could properly throw upon me, and I
thought that he would have been glad, in the organi-
zation of the army, and in the conduct of the recruit-

Private Correspondence 303

ing service, to make me useful to him. With this
view, I came to this city, and I previously opened
the way as far as I could with the least decency-
But the idea has thus far been very partially em-
braced, and to-morrow or next day I shall return to
New York, without much fruit of my journey. I
mention this purely to apprise you of the course of
things, and the probable results.

It is to be regretted that the supposition of co-
operation between the Secretary of War and the
principal military officers will unavoidably throw
upon the latter a part of the blame which the ill
success of the operations of the War Department
may be expected to produce. Thus you perceive,
sir, your perplexities are begun.

P. S. — Since writing the above, I have concluded
to write a letter, of which the enclosed is the copy.^
This effort to save a man I value, and promote the
service, has, under the circumstances, cost some
thing to my delicacy.

Mr. Harper, of the House of Representatives, is
desirous of being in your family. He is a man of
very considerable talents and has the temper of a
soldier. The shade of his useful qualities is vanity,
but I think the good much outweighs the ill. Par-
don this liberty in a point so delicate.

New York, Aug. i, 1798.

The above was written at Philadelphia, but a very
pressing call to this place, added to occupation there,

^ The writer of the enclosed letter is a man of respectability. I
could recommend his primary object. (This is in the MS.)

304 Alexander Hamilton

prevented my being able to copy and forward it till
now.

Give me leave to suggest the expediency of your
asking of McHenry a statement of all the military
supplies, cannon, arms, etc., etc., which are already
provided, and of the means and measures provided
and in execution for augmenting the quantity. This
will give you necessary information and prompt to
exertion.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

August 6, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

You are probably apprised that in announcing to
the general officers their appointments they are told
that the emoluments are to be suspended until called
into actual service, and that, as a consequence of
this plan, they are to remain inactive.

This project suits admirably my private arrange-
ments, by leaving me to pursue in full extent my
profession. But I believe it accords neither with
the intention of the individuals who framed the laws
nor with the good of the service. It is impossible
for McHenry to get through all that is now upon his
hands in a manner honorable to himself, satisfac-
tory to the public, or proportioned to the energy of
the conjuncture. You will see by the enclosed that
I have sacrificed my delicacy to my friendship and
public zeal. I have heard nothing in reply. I
thought it expedient that you and Colonel Pickering
should understand in confidence the situation of
things. Without a change of plan they will not go

Private Correspondence 305

well, and the government and all concerned will be
discredited.

TO GENERAL DAYTON *

New York, Aug. 6, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I received at Philadelphia your letter of the 27th
of July, the answer to which has been delayed by
excessive occupation.

You know, I trust, sufficiently my sentiments of
you not to need being told how much pleasure your
appointment gave me, and how highly I value the
confidence you express in me.

It will probably be unexpected to you to be told
that I am not yet in the exercise of the functions
of my military office, and that my participation in
the preliminary arrangements is only occasional and
very limited.

Such, however, is the course of the plan which has
been adopted by the Executive.

But I have, notwithstanding, had conversation
with the Secretary at War on the points you men-
tion, and to the extent of my opportunity have en-
deavored to promote a right direction. You no
doubt have before this received a letter from the
Secretary on the subject of proper characters for
officers. It seems to be determined in his mind to

^ Elias Dayton, of New Jersey, a distinguished revolutionary officer
and father of Jonathan Dayton, at this time Speaker of the National
House, and grandfather of William L. Dayton, senator from New
Jersey, candidate on the Fremont ticket in 1856 for vice-president, and
minister to France.

VOL. X.— 20.

3o6 Alexander Hamilton

appoint Col. Aaron Ogden to the command of a
regiment.

Everybody must consider him as a great acquisi-
tion in this station. The part of your letter which
respects him, announcing the certainty of his accept-
ance, was particularly grateful to me.

Enclosed you will receive the instructions for the
recruiting service, which were previously prepared
by the Secretary at War. I made such remarks upon
them as hastily occurred. Examine them carefully,
and suggest to me whatever amendments or addi-
tions may present themselves to you. You will
oblige me by free communications at all times.

TO BENJAMIN STODDERT '

New York, Aug. 7, 1798.

Dear Sir:

Capt. Robert Hamilton, a first cousin of mine, is
desirous of employment in this country in the line of
his profession. He is regularly bred to the sea, which
he has followed since he was fourteen years old, and
has had the best opportunities of improvement —
among others that of voyages to the East Indies. He
has also commanded a ship and has acted as super-
cargo. I venture with confidence to recommend
him as well qualified and every way worthy ; adding
to skill in his profession the sentiments of a gentle-
man, good morals, intelligence, and prudence. I in-

' Benjamin Stoddert, of Maryland, at this time Secretary of the
Navy.

Private Correspondence 307

terest myself very much in his success, and shall
esteem it as a personal favor to myself whatever may
be done for his interest.

TO JAMES McHENRY
(Private.)

New York, Aug. 19, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

I write you herewith an official letter. Your pri-
vate one of the 14th is before me. I regret that you
have been unwell and rejoice that you are better.

The affair of General Knox perplexes me. I wish
him to serve. I am pained to occasion to him pain
for I have truly a warm side for him, and a high value
for his mierits; but my judgment tells me, and all I
consult confirm it, that I cannot reasonably post-
pone myself in a case in which a preference so im-
portant to the public in its present and future
consequences has been given me. In denominating
the preference important, I do not intend to judge
whether it will be well or ill founded ; in either case its
tendency is so important, I am willing to confer, to
adjust amicably, with the advice of mutual friends.
But how can I abandon my pretension ?

At foot, my dear sir, I transmit you the draft of
such a reply as it seems to me proper for you to make
to General Knox. It may also be well for you, in a
private letter, to advise him to accept, with a reserva-
tion of his claim ad referendum, upon the ground of
the rule he quotes, and with the understanding that
it will not be imderstood to engage him to continue,

3o8 Alexander Hamilton

if the matter be not finally settled according to his
claim.

(Draft above referred to)

Sir:
1. ' An answer to your letter of the 5th instant has
> ^0 been delayed by some degree of ill health on my part.

The general disposition it marks accords well with
the patriotic sentiments you have so constantly
manifested. It is extremely regretted that any cir-
cumstances should induce you to hesitate about the
acceptance of an appointment in which it is not to
be doubted your services would be eminently useful.

The paragraph of my former letter which you
quote explains to you my conception of the relative
rank of the generals in question as resulting from the
order of the nominations and appointments. This
conception, however, cannot affect the claim of
either, if there be any subsisting binding rule in our
military code which will arrange the priority of rank
between officers nominated on the same day, ac-
cording to their relative stations in the late army.
This will naturally be the subject of some future de-
cision in some proper mode. It is not understood
that there has been any former repeal of the rule to
which you allude.

It remains, then, for you to determine whether you
will or not accept the appointment, with the reserva-
tion of a claim to the benefit of that rule.

Private Correspondence 309

TO JAMES McHENRY

New York, Aug. 19, 1798.

Sir:

An absence from the city, upon some urgent avoca-
tions, prevented my receiving till yesterday your let-
ters of the loth and nth instant.

I observe the suggestion which you have made to
the President towards calling General Knox and my-
self into immediate service. If he shall approve, I
stand ready to execute, in the best manner I shall be
able, whatever business may be confided to me; but
I must earnestly hope that it will not be attended
with the necessity of an immediate change of resi-
dence. The nature of my arrangements would ren-
der this absolutely ruinous to me, and I trust I shall
not be reduced to such an alternative, unless events
portending public danger shall ripen faster than, ac-
cording to present appearances, they are likely to do.
I do not object to a frequent attendance at the seat
of government, for this can be reconciled with my
other engagements, till they can be gradually pre-
pared for a total relinquishment and a new position.
With this, I am satisfied, every desirable end can be
obtained, especially when the promptness of com-
munication between this place and the seat of gov-
ernment is considered. Be assured that none but
very imperious motives could induce this hesitation
on my part. In accepting the appointment I did
not contemplate as probable a speedy dislocation of
residence.

The tenor of General Knox's letter, transmitted
by you and now returned, occasions to me no small

3IO Alexander Hamilton

regret and embarrassment. My esteem and friend-
ship for that gentleman would lead me far ; but there
is a very great difficulty in waiving a station to which,
I am well convinced, I have been called, no less by
the public voice of the country than by the acts of the
Commander-in-Chief and of the President and Sen-
ate. The intention as to the relative grades of the
officers appointed is presumed to be unequivocal. It
is believed that the rule to which General Knox
refers can have no application to the case of the for-
mation of a new army at a new epoch, embracing
officers not previously in actual service.

It was not a permanent provision of law, but a
regulation adapted to the peculiar circumstances of
the late army, and governing, as far as I can recollect,
only in the cases of promotions from lower subsisting
grades to higher ones. At the same time, it is very
delicate for me to give an opinion in a matter in
which I am so personally interested.

I send you back the list of applications which you
transmitted to me, with remarks, and with the addi-
tion of names. It has been in my power to do little
as to candidates in any State but New York. I have
supposed that you have had recourse to better
sources of information as to others.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Aug. 20, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

A necessary absence from this city prevented the
receipt of your letter of the 9th instant till yesterday.

It is very grateful to me to discover in each sue-

Private Correspondence 311

ceeding occurrence a new mark of your friendship
towards me. Time will evince that it makes the
impression that it ought on my mind.

The effect which the course of the late military ap-
pointments has produced on General Knox, though
not very unexpected, is very painful to me. I have
a respectful sense of his pretensions as an officer, and
I have a warm personal regard for him. My em-
barrassment is not inconsiderable between these sen-
timents, and what I owe to a reasonable conduct on
my own part, both in respect to myself and to the
public. It is a fact, that a number of the most in-
fluential men in our affairs would think that in waiv-
ing the preference given to me I acted a weak part,
in a personal view, and an unwarrantable one, in a
public view ; and General Knox is much mistaken if
he does not believe that this sentiment would em-
phatically prevail in that region to which he sup-
poses his character most interesting. I mean New
England.

Yet, my dear sir, I can never consent to see
you seriously compromitted or embarrassed. I shall
cheerfully place myself in your disposal, and facili-
tate any arrangement you may think for the general
good. It does not, however, seem necessary to pre-
cipitate any thing. It may be well to see first what
part Gen. Pinckney will act when he arrives.

The Secretary at War has sent me a copy of Gen-
eral Knox's letter to him on the subject of his
appointment. It does not absolutely decline, but
implies the intention to do it, unless a rule of the
late army, giving, in cases of promotion on the same

312 Alexander Hamilton

day, priority according to the former relative rank,
is understood to govern. I have addressed a reply
of which a copy is enclosed.

The commissions have issued, so that no altera-
tion can now be made as between Generals Knox and
Pinckney, if there were not the serious difficulties in
the way which you seem to have anticipated.

The Secretary at War has proposed to the Presi-
dent a change of the plan announced in the first in-
stance— which may bring into immediate activity
the Inspector-General and Gen. Knox. In this case
you may depend on the best efforts in my power,
with a peculiar attention to the objects you men-
tion, and you shall be carefully and fully advised of
whatever it interests you to know.

Col. Walker resides at present in the western part
of this State. He is occupied in some important
agencies for persons abroad, which renders it doubt-
ful whether he would now accept military employ-
ment. He has been written to, and will be proposed
for the command of a regiment.

Heth is, in many respects, very desirable, in the
capacity you mention. But you are, I presume,
aware of the impracticability of his temper.

The papers sent by you are now returned.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Aug. 21, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your two letters of the 9th reached this place
during an absence on necessary business which only
terminated on Saturday.

Private Correspondence 313

Our friend Mr. McHenry has adopted the ideas
suggested to him. And you may rely on my effect-
ual co-operation. At the same time, as a total dis-
location of residence, to fulfil in all its extent the
idea you intimate, would be unqualified ruin to me,
I must endeavor to avoid it. Frequent visits and
constant communication, and the immediate charge
of certain branches of the service will, I doubt not,
substantially suffice.

The objects you indicate as deserving primary at-
tention will engage it.

In respect to Mr. Wharton, I shall with pleasure
promote whatever may suit him and the service
But I do not know that there is in the establishment
any provision for a clerk or secretary to a general
officer. It is usual, except in case of the Commander-
in-Chief for aides-de-camp to perform the duties of
such characters. In reference to aides, my situa-
tion is this — I have already yielded to the strong
wishes of Mr. and Mrs. Church the promise to ap-
point their eldest son as one; for the other I must
endeavor to find an experienced officer. If Mr.
Wharton desires an appointment in some regiment
to take his chance for a place in the family of some
general officer, I will assist the wish. Let me, if you
please, understand this matter with precision.'

^ Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

314 Alexander Hamilton

TO RUFUS KING

New York, Aug. 22, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your several letters of May 12th, June the 6th and
8th, have regularly come to hand.

You will be, no doubt, fully instructed of the
measures which have taken place on the part of our
government, and you will have seen in the numerous
addresses to the President a confirmation of the
opinion I gave you respecting the disposition of this
country. From both you will have derived satis-
faction, though you should not think we are yet
where we now ought to be. But console yourself
with the assurance that we are progressing in good.
The indications are to my mind conclusive that we
are approaching fast to as great unanimity as any
country ever experienced, and that our energies will
be displayed in proportion to whatever exigencies
shall arise.

I have received several letters from General Mi-
randa. I have written an answer to some of them,
which I send you to deliver or not, according to your
estimate of what is passing in the scene where you
are. Should you deem it expedient to suppress my
letter you may do it, and say as much as you think
fit on my part in the nature of a communication
through you.

With regard to the enterprise in question, I wish
it much to be undertaken, but I should be glad that
the principal agency be in the United States, — they to
furnish the whole land force if necessary. The com-
mand in this case would very naturally fall upon me,

Private Correspondence 315

and I hope I shall disappoint no favorable anticipa-
tion. The independence of the separate territory
under a moderate government, with the joint guar-
anty of the co-operating powers, stipulating equal
privileges in commerce, would be the sum of the re-
sults to be accomplished.

Are we yet ready for this undertaking ? Not quite.
But we ripen fast, and it may, I think, be rapidly
brought to maturity if an efficient negotiation for
the purpose is at once set on foot upon this ground.
Great Britain cannot alone insure the accomplish-
ment of the object. I have some time since advised
certain preliminary steps to prepare the way con-
sistently with national character and justice. I was
told they would be pursued, but I am not informed
whether they have been or not.

TO FRANCISCO MIRANDA *

New York, Aug. 22, 1798.

Sir:

I have lately received by duplicates your letter of
the 6th of April, with the postscript of the 9th of
June. The gentleman you mention in it has not ^'^«^
made his appearance to me, nor do I know of his

^ Francisco Miranda, bom in Caraccas, 1750, was a South American
revolutionist and adventurer. He took part in our war, and then went
to France and engaged in the revolution. He served with Dumouriez,
was put in prison for his intrigues, was ordered to leave France, and
twice afterwards (in 1797 and 1804) expelled. He was always setting
on foot abortive revolutions, and finally, in 181 1, in an attempt at
Caraccas, he was seized and carried to Spain, and died in prison at
Cadiz in 1816.

3^^ Alexander Hamilton

arrival in this country ; so that I can only divine the
object from the hints in your letter.

The sentiments I entertain with regard to that
object have been long since in your knowledge, but
I could personally have no participation in it unless
patronized by the government of this country. It
was my wish that matters had been ripened for a
co-operation in the course of this fall on the part of
this country.

But this can now scarcely be the case. The win-
ter, however, may mature the project, and an effect-
ual co-operation by the United States may take
place. In this case I shall be happy, in my official
station, to be an instrument of so good a work.

The plan in my opinion ought to be: A fleet of
Great Britain, an army of the United States, a gov-
ernment for the liberated territory agreeable to both
co-operators, about which there will be no difficulty.
To arrange the plan a competent authority from
Great Britain to some person here is the best expe-
dient. Your presence here will, in this case, be ex-
tremely essential.

We are raising an army of about twelve thousand
men. General Washington has resumed his station
at the head of our armies. I am appointed second
in command.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

Nbw York, Aug. 22, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

No one knows better than yourself how difficult
and oppressive is the collection even of taxes very

Private Correspondence 317

moderate in their amount, if there be a defective
circulation. According to all the phenomena which
fall under my notice, this is our case in the interior
parts of the country.

Again, individual capitalists, and consequently
the facility of direct loans, are not very extensive in
the United States. The banks can only go a certain
length, and must not be forced. Yet government
will stand in need of large anticipations.

For these and other reasons which I have thought ,
well of, I have come to a conclusion that our Treasury i
ought to raise up a circulation of its own. I mean '
by the issuing of Treasury-notes payable, some on
demand, others at different periods, from very short
to pretty considerable — at first having but little
time to run.

This appears to me an expedient equally necessary
to keep the circulation full and to facilitate the anti-
cipations which government will certainly need. By
beginning early the public eye will be familiarized,
and as emergencies press it will be easy to enlarge
without hazard to credit.

Think well of this suggestion, and do not discard
it without perceiving well a better substitute.

TO JAMES McHENRY

New York, Aug. 25, 1798.

Dear Sir:

I perceive it would be agreeable to the Commander-
in-Chief to receive frequent communications from
you, and particularly to understand the state of

3i8 Alexander Hamilton

public supplies; that is, the quantities on hand and
the measures in execution to procure others.

I give you this hint as a guide, and would advise
to have a full statement made out, with notes of
what is further doing, and send it to him.

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

New York, Aug. 29, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 3d instant came seasonably to
hand. Business and absence from this place have
delayed the acknowledgment.

The persons you mention have been correspond-
ently placed before the Secretary of War.

As to military affairs, they lag not a little — ^no
appointments of regimental officers yet made. Mc-
Henry, as you know, is loaded beyond his strength.
It was an obvious idea to derive aid from among
general officers; but instead of embracing this re-
source, they have all been told that the President
hoped they would think it proper to waive the
emoluments of their offices till called into actual
service.

Steps have been taken towards the correction of
this obvious mistake, the success of which now de-
pends on the President, and on that success the al-
ternative of some or no energy.

Private Correspondence 319

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, Aug. 29, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your friendly letters of the 21st, 2 2d, and 23d of
August have been duly received. I feel myself at
once much flattered and truly indebted for the very
favorable opinion of me which you manifest. The
good estimation of men of sense and virtue is an
ample consolation for the censure and malice of those
of a different character, while the expression of your
sentiments has all the value which a well-known
sincerity and integrity of disposition can give. Be
assured that I shall be happy to be ranked by you
in the number of your friends. The course of the
thing in a particular quarter does not surprise. Be-
sides the direct influence vv^hich would be exerted, I
am aware that the circumstances of the late elec-
tion for president have made some imfortimate
impressions.

The Com^mander-in-Chief , I am authorized by his
own communications to me to believe, will not easily
relinquish the original spirit of the primitive arrange-
ments; but, in the last resort, I shall be inclined to
have much deference for his wishes. It is important
he should well understand, what I verily believe to
be an undoubted fact, that New England would
rather see high command in my hands than in those
of Gen. Kjiox.

320 Alexander Hamilton

TO JAMES McHENRY.

New York, Sept. 8, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Yours, dated by mistake August 6th, I received
yesterday. I postponed a reply till to-day, because
I wished first to reflect maturely. My mind is un-
alterably made up. I shall certainly not hold the
commission on the plan proposed, and only wait an
official communication to say so.

I return you the enclosure in your letter. You
may depend on my fidelity to your friendly confi-
dence. I shall regret whatever of inconvenience
may attend you. You doubtless will take care that
you retain in your own power all the evidences of
this transaction.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Sept. 30, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Your obliging favor of the 24th instant has duly
come to hand. I see in it a new proof of sentiments
towards me which are truly gratifying. But permit
me to add my request to the suggestions of your own
prudence that no personal considerations for me may
induce more on your part than on mature reflection
you may think due to public motives. It is ex-
tremely foreign to my wish to create to you the least
embarrassment, especially in times like the present,
when it is more than ever necessary that the interests
of the whole should be paramountly consulted.

I shall strictly comply with the recommendation
in the close of your letter.

Private Correspondence 321

TO RUFUS KING

New York, Oct. 2, 1798.

My Dear Sir:

Mr. R. delivered me your letter of the 31st of July.
The opinion in that and other of your letters con-
cerning a very important point has been acted upon
by me from the very moment that it became un-
equivocal that we must have a decisive rupture with
France. In some things my efforts succeeded; in ^
others they were disappointed ; in others I have had
promises of conformity to lay the foundation of fu-
ture proceeding, the performance and effect of which
promises are not certainly known to me. The effect,
indeed, cannot yet be known.

The public mind of this country continues to pro-
gress in the right direction. That must influence
favorably the present Congress at the ensuing ses-
sion. The next will be, in all appearance, intrinsically
better.

Of the executive I need say little; you know its
excellent dispositions, its general character, and the
composition of its parts. You know also how
widely different the business of government is from
the speculation of it, and the energy of the imagina-
tion dealing in general propositions from that of
execution in detail.

These are causes from which delay and feebleness
are experienced. But the difficulty will be sur-
mounted, and I anticipate with you that this country
will, erelong, assume an attitude correspondent with
its great destinies — majestic, efficient, and operative
of great things. A noble career lies before it. /

\L^

VOL. X. — 21. ,- 1>

322 Alexander Hamilton

Why does not Gouverneur Morris come home ? His
talents are wanted. Men like him do not super-
abound. Indeed, I wish that you were here rather
than where you are, though I think your position an
important one at the present juncture. But we
want to infuse more abilities into the management
of our internal affairs.

Governor Jay is well. He and all your friends
continue to take a lively interest in all that concerns
you.

TO THE COUNT LATOUR DUPIN GOUVERNET '

New York, Oct. 3, 1798.

I had yesterday, my dear sir, the pleasure of receiv-
ing your letter of the 15th of July, accompanied by
two others, one for Messrs. Le Roy and Bayard, the
other for Mr. Olive, which will be sent to them in the
country, where they now continue, in consequence
of the sickness in this city. The letters which you
mention to have before written have also been re-
ceived. To mine I replied shortly after; nor can I
imagine how it has happened that you have received
no answer from either of the parties.

On the subject of the sale of your farm Mr. Bayard

^ Frederic Seraphin, Marquis de la Tour Du Pin Gouvemet, son of
General Jean Frederic Latour Du Pin Gouvemet, Comte de Paulin.
General Latour Du Pin, with his cousin, the Marquis Latour Du Pin,
were distinguished soldiers and statesmen. They were summoned as
witnesses at the trial of Marie Antoinette, and their devotion to the
queen only hastened their own doom. They were both guillotined on
the same day, in April, 1794. Frederic Seraphin, son of the General,
fled to America, bought an estate, no doubt the one referred to in
Hamilton's letter, and turned farmer. He returned to Europe after

Private Correspondence 323

and I myself had a conference, and we agreed that a
sale at this time was inexpedient, as it could not
be hoped that the farm would bring near its value,
owing to the embarrassments in pecuniary opera-
tions produced by the prospect of war. I shall, how-
ever, now advise that an experiment be made. The
offers received, if any, will determine whether a sale
can take place without an imprudent sacrifice for
you, and the result can be regulated accordingly.

Be assured, my dear sir, that I shall be happy to
be useful to you in this or any other matter. In
doing so, I shall equally gratify the esteem and
friendship with which you have inspired me for your-
self, and that lively and affecting interest in what-
ever concerns Madame de Gouvemet, which cannot
but be felt by all w^ho have had an opportunity to
know her value.

If it shall conduce to her and your happiness to
return to this country, it will certainly add to ours;
and if you will beforehand apprise me of your reso-

the 9th Thermidor, and to France permanently after the i8th Bnimaire,
taking service under the Empire . During the Restoration he filled many-
high posts, but after the revolution of July he was obliged to leave
France on account of Legitimist intrigues, and died in exile at Lau-
sanne, in 1837 (Larbusse, Diet. Universe!). This letter is correctly ad-
dressed in the original draft in the State Department , but in the edition
of 1850 it is changed to Coimt Latour Dupin Gouvion. Mr. J. C.
Hamilton knew of no officer among our allies by such a name as Gouver-
net, whereas there was one named Gouvion, and for this reason, ap-
parently, he printed it Gouvion. Jean Baptiste Gouvion was an officer
in the war, but he had no connection whatever with the Latour Dupin
family, except that his last name, like theirs, began with G. If Mr.
J. C. Hamilton had either looked up the Latour Dupin family, or if he
had recollected that Frenchmen came to America in other capacities
than that of military allies, he would have saved himself from the
compHcated blunder which he made in the address of this letter.

324 Alexander Hamilton

lution, when taken, and your general plan, you will
find me zealous to co-operate in giving it effect.

I would invite you to return with the more con-
fidence from the assurance in the stability of affairs
in this country, which is derived from the late happy
course of the public mind. An extraordinary union
among the people in the support of their own govern-
ment, and in resistance to all foreign encroachments,
leaves nothing to be feared for our future security
and prosperity. The most reasonable ideas in every
respect prevail.

Accept, whenever you shall come, under the roof
of Mrs. Hamilton and myself, an asylum where you
may be perfectly at home until you shall have com-
pleted your arrangements for your future establish-
ment. She joins me in cordial remembrance to
Madame de Gouvemet and yourself.

TO WILLIAM HETH *

New York, Dec. 18, 1798.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 30th of July was duly received.
It gave me much pleasure as a proof of your friendly
remembrance, and as an indication that you were
not disposed to be idle in a crisis of national danger.
You are indeed one of those men who cannot be per-
mitted to be idle, and you will no doubt be called to
take the field in some eligible station, if the impend-
ing storm shall not subside. You can imagine the

^ William Heth, of Virginia, a gallant soldier of the Revolution who
now came forward to again offer his services in case of war.

Private Correspondence 325

multiplicity and extent of my avocations, and I hope
you will make a kind allov^ance for my silence. At-
tribute it to any thing but want of regard for you;
on this score depend that I have no retribution to
make, being very cordially and truly yours, etc.

P. S. — What do the factions in your State really
aim at ? '

TO HARRISON GRAY OTIS ^

New York, Dec. 27, 1798.

Dear Sir;

I did not receive till yesterday your letter dated
2ist instant. No apology was necessary for so
gratifying a mark of your good opinion, upon which
I set the high value it so justly deserves.

In the enclosed extract of a letter to another of
the government, you will find my ideas generally on
the subject of your letter. I adopt this method of
communication as equally effectual and best adapted
to the multiplicity of my avocations. Some addi-
tional remarks in direct reference to your particular
questions, may perhaps be requisite to fulfil your
object.

Any reduction of the actual force appears to me 93J

inexpedient. It will argue to our enemy that we are
either very narrow in our resources, or that our jeal-
ousy of his designs is abated. Besides, that with a

^ Reprinted from Reminiscences of James A. Hamilton, p. 38.

2 Harrison Gray Otis, of Boston, distinguished as a lawyer and orator,
at this time member of Congress and one of the yoiinger Federalist
leaders. He was afterwards, 181 7-182 2, United States Senator, and
died in 1848, at the age of eighty-three.

326 Alexander Hamilton

view to the possibility of internal disorders alone, the
force authorized is not too considerable. The efficacy
of militia for suppressing such disorders is not too
much to be relied upon. The experience of the West-
em expedition ought not to be [forgotten ?]. That was
a very uphill business. There were more than once
appearances to excite alarm as to the perseverance of
the troops, and it is not easy to foresee what might
have been the result had there been serious resistance.
The repetition of similar exertions may be found
very difficult, insomuch as to render it extremely
[needful?], in these precarious times, to have the
government armed with the whole of the force which
has been voted.

There are several defects in the military establish-
ment which demand reform as well for economy as
efficiency. On these there has been an ample com-
munication from the Commander-in-Chief to the De-
partment of War. I cannot conceive why nothing
has yet gone to Congress. Certainly this cannot be
much longer delayed. Will it be amiss informally
to interrogate the Minister? If the silence is per-
sisted in, you shall know from me the objects.

The extract answers your questions as to the pro-
visional army. I think the act respecting the eighty
thousand militia ought likewise to be revived. The
effect abroad will be good, and it will likewise be so
at home, as the evidence of a reliance of the govern-
ment on the militia.

Good policy does not appear to me to require ex-
tensive appropriations for fortifications at the present
juncture. Money can be more usefully employed in

Private Correspondence 327

other ways. A good deal of previous examination
ought to lead to a plan for fortifying three or four
cardinal points. More than this will be a misap-
plication of money. Secure positions for arsenals
and dock-yards are in this view a primary object.

Your last question respecting the West India
Islands I shall reserve for a future communication.

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK ~^.,-.i^r^'^j}i.^^^^

Dear Sir: ^^^^^-^ii;,^

I have been reading the report of the Secretary of
the Treasury on the subject of direct taxes. I think
it does him credit. The general principles and ob-
jects are certainly good, nor am I sure that any
thing better can be done.

I remember, however, that I once promised you to
put in writing my ideas on the subject. I intended
to have done it and communicated them to the
Secretary. My hurry and press of business pre-
vented me; but I concluded lately to devote an
evening to a rude sketch, and to send it to you. You
may show it to the Secretary and confer. If, in the
course of the thing, it can be useful to the general
end we all have in view, it will give me pleasure ; if
not, there will have been but little time misspent.
Of course, no use will be made of it in contradiction
to the views of the Treasury Department.

As to the part which relates to land, I do not feel

* This is the date and place given this letter in the edition of 1850.
The original is undated.

328 Alexander Hamilton

any strong preference of my plan to that in the re-
port; for this, in my opinion, ought to be considered
only as an auxiliary, and not as the pith of the tax.
But I own I have a strong preference of my plan of
a house-tax to that in the report. These are my
reasons :

It is more comprehensive, embracing all houses,
and will be proportionately more productive. It is
more certain, avoiding the evasions and partialities
to which valuations will be for ever liable, and I
think it for that reason likely to be at least as equal.
I entertain no doubt that the rule of rates, adapted
as they are to characteristic circumstances, will in
fact be more favorable to equality than appraise-
ments. I think the idea of taxing only houses of
above a certain annual value will be dissatisfactory.
The comparison of the proprietors of houses imme-
diately above with those immediately below the line
will beget discontent, and the errors of valuations
will increase it.

I think there will be a great advantage in throwing
the weight of the tax on houses, as well because lands
are more difficult to manage as because it will fall in
a manner less dissatisfactory.

My plan as to houses can be easily combined with
that in the report as to land.

Some years ago I proposed a similar plan in the
Legislature of this State. It went through three
readings and had a great majority in its favor, but as
it was essentially different from what had always
before obtained in the State it was thought best to
postpone, to feel the sense of constituents. I left

Private Correspondence 329

the Legislature — changes in our poHtical situation
rendered the plan of State taxation less important,
and the business shrunk out of sight. But there was
every appearance that the plan would have been
popular in this State.

You observe I confine myself to a million. It
would not bear hard in this way. I would add, as
aid, the taxes contemplated last session — on stamps,
collateral successions, new modifications of some
articles of imports, and, let me add, 5a(iG^/^-horses.
The idea of taxing slaves generally will not work
well. If confined to all menial servants for luxury,
as coachmen, footmen, cooks, etc., it would be
eligible.

TO JONATHAN DAYTON '

1799.

An accurate view of the internal situation of the
United States presents many discouraging reflections
to the enlightened friends of our government and
country. Notwithstanding the unexampled success
of our public measures at home and abroad — not-
withstanding the instructive comments afforded by
the disastrous and disgusting scenes of the French
Revolution — public opinion has not been ameli-
orated; sentiments dangerous to social happiness
have not been diminished; on the contrary, there
are symptoms which warrant the apprehension that
among the most numerous class of citizens, errors of

^ Of New Jersey, at this time Speaker of the national House. This
letter, like the preceding, has no date in the original, and is placed and
dated according to the edition of 1850.

^2,0 Alexander Hamilton

a very pernicious tendency have not only preserved
but have extended their empire. Though some
thing may have been .gained on the side of men of
information and property, more has probably been
lost on that of persons of a different description. An
extraordinary exertion of the friends of government,
aided by circumstances of momentary impression,
gave, in the last election for members of Congress, a
more favorable countenance to some States than
they had before worn; yet it is the belief of well-
informed men that no real or desirable change has
been wrought in those States. On the other hand,
it is admitted by close observers that some of the
parts of the Union which, in times past, have been
the soundest, have of late exhibited signs of a gan-
grene begun and progressive.

It is likewise apparent that opposition to the gov-
ernment has acquired more system than formerly,
is bolder in the avowal of its designs, less solicitous
than it was to discriminate between the Constitution
and the administration, and more open and more
enterprising in its projects. The late attempt of
Virginia and Kentucky to unite the State Legisla-
tures in a direct resistance to certain laws of the
Union can be considered in no other light than as an
attempt to change the government.

It is stated in addition that the opposition party
in Virginia, the headquarters of the faction, have
followed up the hostile declarations which are to be
found in the resolutions of their General Assembly
by an actual preparation of the means of supporting
them by force, that they have taken measures to put

Private Correspondence 331

their militia on a more efficient footing — are prepar-
ing considerable arsenals and magazines, and (which
is an unequivocal proof how much they are in earn-
est) have gone so far as to lay new taxes on their
citizens. Amidst such serious indications of hos-
tility, the safety and the duty of the supporters of
the government call upon them to adopt vigorous
measures of counteraction. It will be wise in them
to act upon the hypothesis that the opposers of the
government are resolved, if it shall be practicable,
to make its existence a question of force. Possess- ^

ing, as they now do, all the constitutional powers,
it will be an unpardonable mistake on their part if ,| 1;^^^; «
they do not exert them to surround the Constitution ' ^^ ^
with more ramparts and to disconcert the schemes of
its enemies.

The measures proper to be adopted may be classed
under heads.

First. — Establishments which will extend the in- '•

fluence and promote the popularity of the govern-
ment. Under this head three important expedients
occur. First. The extension of the judiciary system.
Second. The improvement of the great communica-
tions, as well interiorly as coastwise, by turnpike
roads. Third. The institution of a society with
funds to be employed in premiums for new in-
ventions, discoveries, and improvements in agricul-
ture and in the arts.

The extension of the judiciary system ought to
embrace two objects: one, the subdivision of each
State into small districts (suppose Connecticut into
four, and so on in proportion), assigning to each a

tl

332 Alexander Hamilton

judge with a moderate salary; the other, the ap-
pointment in each county of conservators or justices
of the peace, with only ministerial functions, and
with no other compensation than fees for the ser-
vices they shall perform. This measure is necessary
to give efficacy to the laws, the execution of which
is obstructed by the want of similar organs and by
the indisposition of the local magistrates in some
States. The Constitution requires that judges shall
have fixed salaries; but this does not apply to mere
justices of the peace without judicial powers. Both
those descriptions of persons are essential, as well
to the energetic execution of the laws as to the pur-
poses of salutary patronage.

The thing, no doubt, would be a subject of clamor,
but it would carry with it its own antidote, and when
once established, would bring a very powerful sup-
port to the government.

The improvement of the roads would be a measure
universally popular. None can be more so. For
this purpose a regular plan should be adopted, co-
extensive with the Union, to be successively exe-
cuted, and a fund should be appropriated sufficient
for the basis of a loan of a million of dollars. The
revenue of the post-office naturally offers itself. The
future revenue from tolls would more than reimburse
the expense, and public utility would be promoted
in every direction. The institution of a society, with
the aid of proper funds, to encourage agriculture and
the arts, besides being productive of general advan-
tage, will speak powerfully to the feelings and in-
terests of those classes of men to whom the benefits

Private Correspondence 333

derived from the government have been heretofore
the least manifest.

Second. — Provision for augmenting the means
and consohdating the strength of the government.
A milHon of dollars may without difficulty be added
to the revenue, by increasing the rates of some exist-
ing indirect taxes, and by the addition of some new ^^
items of a similar character. ^^ ^

The direct taxes ought neither to be increased nor ", ^ ^ ^
diminished. Our naval force ought to be completed
to six ships of the line, twelve frigates, and twenty-
four sloops of war. More at this juncture would be
disproportioned to our resources, less would be in-
adequate to the ends to be accomplished. Our
military force should, for the present, be kept upon tT

its actual footing; making provision for a re-en-
listment of the men for five years in the event of a
settlement of differences with France, — with this con-
dition, that in case of peace between Great Britain,
France, and Spain, the United States being then also
at peace, all the privates of the twelve additional
regiments of infantry, and of the regiment of dra-
goons, not exceeding twenty to a company, shall be
disbanded. The corps of artillerists may be left to
retain the numbers which it shall happen to have,
but without being recruited until the number of
officers and privates shall fall below the standard of
the infantry and dragoons. A power ought to be
given to the President to augment the four old regi-
ments to their war establishment.

The laws respecting volunteer companies, and the
eventual army, should be rendered permanent, and

t:2.v

334 Alexander Hamilton

the Executive should proceed without delay to or-
ganize the latter. Some modifications of the dis-
cretion of the President will, however, be proper in
a permanent law. And it will be a great improve-
ment of the plan, if it shall be thought expedient to
allow the enlistment, for the purpose of instruction,
of a corps of sergeants equal to the number requisite
for the eventual army. The institution of a military
academy will be an auxiliary of great importance.
Manufactories of every article, the woollen parts of
clothing included, which are essential to the supply
of the army, ought to be established.

Third. — Arrangements for confirming and enlarg-
ing the legal powers of the government. There are
several temporary laws which, in this view, ought to
be rendered permanent, particularly that which au-
thorizes the calling out of the militia to suppress im-
lawful combinations and insurrections.

An article ought to be proposed, to be added to
the Constitution, for empowering Congress to open
canals in all cases in which it may be necessary to
conduct them through the territory of two or more
States, or through the territory of a State and that
of the United States. The power is very desirable
for the purpose of improving the prodigious facilities
for inland navigation with which nature has favored
this country. It will also assist commerce and agri-
culture, by rendering the transportation of com-
modities more cheap and expeditious. It will tend
to secure the connection, by facilitating the com-
munication between distant portions of the Union,
and it will be a useful source of influence to the gov-

Private Correspondence 335

emment. Happy would it be if a clause could be ,
added to the Constitution, enabling Congress, on the \
application of any considerable portion of a State, »
containing not less than a hundred thousand persons,
to erect it into a separate State, on the condition of
fixing the quota of contributions which it shall make
toward antecedent debts, if any there shall be, re-
serving to Congress the authority to levy within such
State the taxes necessary to the payment of such
quota, in case of neglect on the part of the State. The \
subdivision of the great States is indispensable to the .'
security of the general government, and with it of the
Union. \

Great States will always feel a rivalship with the \
common head; will often be supposed to machinate
against it, and in certain situations will be able to do
it with decisive effect. The subdivision of such States
ought to be a cardinal point in the federal policy, and
small States are doubtless best adapted to the purposes ;
of local regulation and to the preservation of the repub-
lican spirit. This suggestion, however, is merely
thrown out for consideration. It is feared that it
would be inexpedient and even dangerous to pro-
pose, at this time, an amendment of the kind. ^-

Fourth. — Laws for restraining and punishing in- ^ -$2.'
cendiary and seditious practices. It will be useful to '^'
declare that all such writings, etc., which at common
law are libels, if levelled against any officer whatso- ^

ever of the United States, shall be cognizable in the
courts of the United States. To preserve confidence
in the officers of the general government, by preserv-
ing their reputations from malicious and unfounded

.^.^6 Alexander Hamilton
slanders, is essential to enable them to fulfil the ends
of their appointment. It is, therefore, both constitu-
tional and politic to place their reputations under
the guardianship of the courts of the United States.
They ought not to be left to the cold and reluctant
protection of State courts, always temporizing, and
sometimes disaffected. But what avail laws which
j are not executed? Renegade aliens conduct more
than one of the most incendiary presses in the United
States — and yet, in open contempt and defiance of
the laws, they are permitted to continue their de-
■'^v structive labors. Why are they not sent away ? Are
laws of this kind passed merely to excite odium and
^ remain a dead letter ? Vigor in the executive is at
\ least as necessary as in the legislative branch. If
f the President requires to be stimulated, those who
can approach him ought to do it.

TO LAFAYETTE

New York, Jan. 6, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I have been made happy, my dear friend, by the
receipt of your letter of the 1 2th of August last. No
explanation of your political principles was neces-
sary to satisfy me of the perfect consistency and
purity of your conduct. The interpretation may
always be left to my attachment for you. Whatever
difference of opinion may on any occasion exist be-
tween us, it can never lessen my conviction of the
goodness both of your head and heart. I expect

Private Correspondence 337

from you a return of this sentiment so far as con-
cerns the heart. 'T is needless to detail to you my
political tenets. I shall only say that I hold with
Montesquieu, that a government must be fitted to
a nation, as much as a coat to the individual; and,
consequently, that what may be good at Phila-
delphia may be bad at Paris, and ridiculous at
Petersburgh.

I join with you in regretting the misunderstanding
between our two countries. You will have seen by
the President's speech that a door is again opened
for terminating them amicably. And you may be
assured that we are sincere, and that it is in the power
of France, by reparation to our merchants for past
injury, and the stipulation of justice in future, to
put an end to the controversy.

But I do not much like the idea of your being any
way implicated in the affair, lest you should be com-
promitted in the opinion of one or the other of the
parties. It is my opinion that it is best for you
to stand aloof. Neither have I abandoned the idea
that it is most advisable for you to remain in Europe
till the difference is adjusted. It would be very
difficult for you here to steer a course which would
not place you in a party, and not remove you from
the broad ground which you now occupy in the hearts
of all. It is a favorite point with me that you shall
find in the universal regard of this country all the
consolations which the loss of your own (for so I
consider it) may render requisite.

Mrs. Church and Mrs. Hamilton unite in assurance
of their affectionate remembrance.

VOL. X.— 22.

^^S Alexander Hamilton

TO HARRISON GRAY OTIS

New York, Jan. 26, 1799.

Dear Sir:

You will recollect that I reserved for a future an-
swer part of a letter which I had the pleasure of
receiving from you some time since. These are my
ideas on that subject.

I should be glad to see, before the close of the ses-
sion, a law empowering the President, at his discre-
tion, in case a negotiation between the United States
and France should not be on foot by the first of Au-
gust next, or being on foot should terminate without
an adjustment of differences, to declare that a state
of war exists between the two countries, and there-
upon to employ the land and naval forces of the
United States in such manner as shall appear to him
most effectual for annoying the enemy, and for pre-
venting and frustrating hostile designs of France,
either directly or indirectly through any of her allies.

This course of proceeding, by postponing the
event, and giving time for the intervention of nego-
tiation, would be a further proof of moderation in
the government, and would tend to reconcile our
citizens to the last extremity, if it shall ensue, gradu-
ally accustoming their minds to look forward to it.

If France be really desirous of accommodation,
this plan will accelerate her measures to bring it
about. If she have not that desire, it is best to
anticipate her final vengeance, and to throw what-
ever weight we have into the scale opposed to her.
This conduct may contribute to disable her to do the
mischief which she may meditate.

Private Correspondence 339

As it is every moment possible that the project
of taking possession of the Floridas and Louisiana,
long since attributed to France, may be attempted
to be put in execution, it is very important that the
Executive should be clothed with power to meet and
defeat so dangerous an enterprise. Indeed, if it is
the policy of France to leave us in a state of semi-
hostility, 't is preferable to terminate it, and by tak-
ing possession of those countries for ourselves, to
obviate the mischief of their falling into the hands
of an active foreign power, and at the same time to
secure to the United States the advantage of keeping
the key to the Western country. I have been long
in the habit of considering the acquisition of those
countries as essential to the permanency of the Union
which I consider as very important to the welfare of
the whole.

If universal empire is still to be the pursuit of
France, what can tend to defeat the purpose better
than to detach South America from Spain, which is
only the channel through which the riches of Mexico
and Peru are conveyed to France? The Executive
ought to be put in a situation to embrace favorable
conjunctures for effecting that separation. 'T is
to be regretted that the preparation of an adequate
military force does not advance more rapidly. There
is some sad nonsense on this subject in some good
heads. The reveries of some of the friends of the
government are more injurious to it than the attacks
of its declared enemies.

When will men learn to profit by experience?

340 Alexander Hamilton

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

February 2, 1799,

What, my dear sir, are you going to do in Vir-
ginia ? This is a very serious business, which will call
for all the wisdom and firmness of the government.
The following are the ideas which occur to me on the
occasion. The first thing in all great operations of
such a government as ours is to secure the opinion
of the people. To this end the proceedings of Vir-
ginia and Kentucky, with the two laws complained
of,' should be referred to a special committee. That
committee should make a report, exhibiting with
great luminousness and particularity the reasons
which support the constitutionality and expediency
of those laws, the tendency of the doctrines advanced
by Virginia and Kentucky to destroy the Constitu-
tion of the United States, and with calm dignity
united with pathos the full evidence which they
afford of a regular conspiracy to overturn the govern-
ment. And the report should likewise dwell upon
the inevitable effect, and probably the intention, of
the proceedings to encourage hostile foreign powers
to decline accommodation and proceed in hostility.

The government must not merely de^nd itself, it
must attack and arraign its enemies., -^^ut in all this
there should be great care to distinguish the people
of Virginia from their Legislature, and even the
greater part of those who may have concurred in
the Legislature from their chiefs, manifesting, in-
deed, a strong confidence in the good sense and

* The Alien and Sedition laws.

Private Correspondence 341

patriotism of the people that they will not be the
dupes of an insidious plan to disunite the people of
America, to break down their Constitution, and ex-
pose them to the enterprise of a foreign powei\/''' This
report should conclude with a declaration that there
is no cause for a repeal of the laws. If, however, on
exanriination, any modifications consistent with the
general design of the laws, but instituting better
guards, can be devised, it may be well to propose
them as a bridge for those who may incline to re-
treat over. Concessions of this kind, adroitly made,
have a good rather than a bad effect. On a recent,
though hasty, revision of the Alien law, it seems to
me deficient in precautions against abuse and for the
security of citizens. This should not be. No pains
or expense should be spared to disseminate this re-
port. A little pamphlet containing it should find
its way into every house in Virginia. This should
be left to work and nothing to court a shock should
be adopted. In the meantime the measures for
raising the military force should proceed with ac-
tivity. 'T is much to be lamented that so much
delay has attended the execution of this measure.
In times like the present, not a moment ought to
have been lost to secure the government so powerful
an auxiliary. Whenever the experiment shall be
made to subdue a refractory and powerful State by
militia, the event will shame the advocates of their
sufficiency. In the expedition against the Western
insurgents, I trembled every moment lest a great
part of the militia should take it into their heads to
return home rather than to go forward. When a

342 Alexander Hamilton

clever force has been collected, let them be drawn
toward Virginia, for which there is an obvious pre-
text, then let measures be taken to act upon the
laws and put Virginia to the test of resistance. This
plan will give time for the fervor of the moment to
subside, for reason to resume the reins, and, by di-
viding its enemies, will enable the government to
triumph with ease.'

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, Feb. 9, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I am this moment favored with your letter of the
9th instant. I shall immediately reflect on the most
important point, and to-morrow give you the result.

The provision in the law is ample. But in this,
my dear sir, as in every thing else, we must unite
caution with decision. The United States must not
be committed on the independence of St. Domingo.
No guaranty — no formal treaty — nothing that can
rise up in judgment. It will be enough to let Tous-
saint be assured verbally, but explicitly, that upon
his declaration of independence a commercial inter-
course will be opened, and continue while he main-
tains it, and gives due protection to our vessels and
property. I incline to think the declaration of in-
dependence ought to precede.

' Reprinted from the History of the Republic ^ vii., 277.

Private Correspondence 343

TO WASHINGTON

{Private.)

New York, Feb. i6, 1799.

Dear Sir:

Different reasons have conspired to prevent my
writing to you since my return to New York — the miil-
tipHcity of miy avocations, an imperfect state of health,
and the want of some thing material to communicate.

The official letter herewith transmitted, will in-
form you of the disposition of our military affairs
which has been recently adopted by the department
of war. There shall be no want of exertion on my
part to promote the branches of the service con-
fided to my care.

But I more and more discover cause to apprehend
that obstacles of a very peculiar kind stand in the
way of an efficient and successful management of
our military concerns. These it woiild be imsafe at
present to explain.

It may be useful that I should be able to write to
you hereafter some confidential matters relating to
our administration without the mention of names.
When this happens, I shall designate the President
by X, the Secretary of State by V, of the Treasury
by I, and of the Department of War by C.

Every thing in the northern quarter, as far as I
can learn, continues favorable to the government.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, Feb. 21, 1799.

My Dear Sir:

The multiplicity of my avocations joined to im-
perfect health has delayed the commiinication you

344 Alexander Hamilton

desired respecting St. Domingo. And what is worse,
it has prevented my bestowing sufficient thought to
offer at present any thing worth having.

No regular system of liberty will at present suit
St. Domingo. The government, if independent, must
I be military — partaking of the feodal system.

A hereditary chief would be best, but this I fear
is impracticable.

Let there be then, a single Executive, to hold his
place for life.

The person to succeed on a vacancy to be either
the officer next in command in the island at the time
of the death of the predecessor, or the person who by
plurality of voices of the commandants of regiments
shall be designated within a certain time. In the
meantime the principal military officers to admin-
ister.

All the males within certain ages to be arranged in
military corps, and to be compellable to military ser-
vice. This may be connected with the tenure of lands.

Let the supreme judiciary authority be vested in
twelve judges to be chosen for life by the generals or
chief military officers.

Trial by jury in all criminal causes not military to
be established. The mode of appointing them must
be regulated with reference to the general spirit of
the establishment.

Every law inflicting capital or other corporal pun-
ishment, or levying a tax or contribution in any
shape, to be proposed by the Executive to an assem-
bly composed of the generals and commandants of
regiments for their sanction or rejection.

".'7

Private Correspondence 345

All other laws to be enacted by the sole authority
of the Executive.

The powers of war and treaty to be in the Execu-
tive.

The Executive to be obliged to have three minis-
ters— of finance, war, and foreign affairs — ^whom he
shall nominate to the generals for their approbation
or rejection.

The colonels and generals, when once appointed,
to hold their offices during good behavior, removed
only by conviction of an infamous crime in due course
of law or the sentence of a court-martial cashiering
them.

Court-martials for trial of officers and capital of-
fences to be not less than twelve, and well guarded
as to mode of appointment.

Duties of import and export, taxes on lands and
buildings to constitute the chief branches of revenue.

These thoughts are very crude, but perhaps they
may afford some hints.

How is the sending an agent to Toussaint to en-
courage the independency of St. Domingo, and a
minister to France to negotiate an accommodation
reconcilable to consistency or good faith ? ^

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

New York, Feb. 21, 1799.

The step announced in your letter just received,
in all its circumstances, would astonish, if any thing
from that quarter could astonish.

^ Now first printed from the Pickering papers in the possession of the
Massachusetts Historical Society.

34^ Alexander Hamilton

But as it has happened, my present impression is
that the measure must go into effect with the addi-
tional idea of a commission of three.

The mode must be accommodated with the Presi-
dent. Murray is certainly not strong enough for so
immensely important a mission.'

I will write to-morrow if my impression varies.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, March 13, 1799.

Dead Sir:

It is natural for people, where their interest is
concerned, to die hard. Mr. Juhel, the bearer of
this, goes to Philadelphia to lay before you some
supplementar}?- evidence with regard to the ship
Ger mania, which he hopes may vary your determina-
tion. At his request I give him this line to you,
merely to say that he is a merchant of this city, of
reputation, and, so far as his conduct has fallen
under my observation, of candor and probity. I
wish him success as far as personal considerations
alone are concerned and no general rule of policy is
contravened.

But having occasion to write you on a subject con-
nected with the law prohibiting intercourse with the
French territories, I ought not to withhold from you
an opinion which I deliberately entertain. It is that
whatever may have been the intention of the Legis-

I This letter refers to the message of John Adams of February 18,
1799, announcing his intention of reopening negotiations with France
and nominating William Vans Miirray as Minister to the French Repub-
lic. This action on the part of the President, taken without consulting
even his Cabinet, astonished the country and fell like a thunderbolt
upon the Federalists.

Private Correspondence 347

lature in framing this law, it is in fact so worded
that it will be a very violent thing in a court of jus-
tice to pronounce that the prohibition of the third
section extends to any but a French bottom.

The leading and prominent feature of the pro-
hibition, as to the subject, is a ''French ship or
vessel.'' There are subsequent words which, by im-
plication, look to vessels of other descriptions, but
they may be understood consistently with the main
and preliminary feature.

Thus the proviso excepts ships or vessels ''bona
fide the property of, or hired or employed by, the
citizens of the United States." A French bottom,
by her build and registry, may be the property of
citizens of the United States. Again, these words
will be satisfied by supposing that they intend ships
and vessels which were French immediately before
the voyage in question, but were purchased for the
voyage by citizens of the United States.

And this construction will better consist with the
principles which govern the interpretation of penal
laws, than to extend the prohibition which is to con-
stitute the penalty beyond the letter by implication
and force of proviso which is introduced to make an
exception to the general terms.

I am well aware of the course which in such a case
policy will dictate to the Executive, but if this view
of the law be correct, it may afford an argument
for a mitigated course where no actual intention to
evade appears."

^ Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

34^ Alexander Hamilton

TO GENERAL KNOX

My Dear Sir: New York, March 14, 1799-

The enclosed letters, as I concluded from others
which accompany them, have been a long time getting
to hand. There was a moment when their object
seemed to present itself as one not entirely chimeri-
cal, but the probability has diminished. 'T is, how-
ever, a thing on which the mind may still speculate
as in the chapter of extraordinary events which
characterize the present wonderful epoch.

My judgment tells me I ought to be silent on a cer-
tain subject ; but my heart advises otherwise, and my
heart has always been the master of my judgment.
Believe me I have felt much pain at the idea, that any
circumstance personal to me should have deprived
the public of your services or occasioned to you the
smallest dissatisfaction. Be persuaded, also, that the
views of others, not my own, have given shape to what
has taken place — and that there has been a serious
struggle between my respect and attachment for you
and the impression of duty. This sounds, I know,
like affectation, but it is nevertheless the truth. In a
case in which such great public interests were con-
cerned, it seemed to me the dictate of reason and
propriety, not to exercise an opinion of my own, but
to leave that of others, who could influence the issue,
to take a free course. In saying this much, my only
motive is to preserve, if I may, a claim on your
friendly disposition towards me, and to give you
some evidence that my regard for you is unabated.'

^ This last paragraph refers to Hamilton's having been placed at
the head of the provisional army, which had so much chagrined Knox
that he had resigned his commission.

Private Correspondence 349

TO JAMES McHENRY ^v J- W/ | ^^

(Private.)

New York, March i8, 1799.

Beware, my dear sir, of magnifying a riot into an
insurrection, by employing, in the first instance, an
inadequate force. 'T is better far to err on the other
side.

Whenever the government appears in arms, it
ought to appear Hke a Hercules, and inspire respect j
by the display of strength. The consideration of <
expense is of no moment compared with the advan-
tages of energy. 'T is true this is always a relative
question, but 't is always important to make no
mistake. I only offer a principle and a caution.

A large corps of auxiliary cavalry may be had in
Jersey, New York, Delaware, Maryland, without in-
terfering with farming pursuits.

Will it be inexpedient to put under marching orders
a large force provisionally, as an eventual support of
the corps to be employed, to awe the disaffected?

Let all be well considered.^

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT '

New York, March 21, 1799.

Dear Sir:

It is a good principle for the United States to em-
ploy directly its own means, only do not let this be

^ Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vii., 313.

2 This letter and the preceding refer to the troubles which became
known as the Fries rebellion, and which grew out of the resistance in i
Pennsylvania to the direct taxes. The disturbances were violent and
riotous, and at last the President issued a proclamation and ordered
out some troops, and the whole affair ended. Fries was arrested, tried,
convicted of treason, sentenced to death, and pardoned by President
Adams.

350 Alexander Hamilton

carried so far as to confine it to the use of inadequate
means, or to embarrass the auxiliary means which
circumstances may require.

The idea of the late President's administration of
considering the governor of each State as the first
general of the militia, and its immediate organ in
acting upon the militia, was wisely considered, and,
in my opinion, wisely adopted, and well to be ad-
hered to. In its final operation, it will obviate many
difficulties and collisions, and by enhancing their im-
portance, tend to draw the State Executives to the
general government. Take good care that in the
present instance the force be not inadequate.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, April 4, 1799.

Sir:

I observe, by the Boston papers, that some dis-
patches have been lately found on board a vessel
from this port which was carried into Gibraltar.
The late consul here, Mr. Rosier, has just been with
me, and suggested that the dispatches are probably
from him, and allude (but without naming me) to
some conversations with me relating to his being
received as consul-general some time last winter.
Being so much engaged as not to have been able
conveniently to call upon you, I mentioned the sub-
ject while in Philadelphia to Mr. Wolcott, and was
informed by him that Mr. Rosier could not then be
received. In the interviews respecting this object,

Private Correspondence 351

some general conversation took place about the
state of things between the two countries. Mr.
Rosier will write to you offering the means of de-
ciphering his dispatches, which he assures me, with
every appearance of candor, will be found to contain
nothing unfriendly to this country. It is his wish,
in the meantime, that no idea may circulate of his
being a conspirator.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, April 8, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I send you in confidence the copy of a letter of this ^ ^/
date to the Secretary of War and of the plan to
which it refers. Consider it well. Make the Secre-
tary of War talk to you about it, without letting him
know that I have sent it to you. And urge the es-
tablishment of some plan which will effectually or-
ganize this important branch of our military service.
The proper course in the interest of the army is in-
dicated by the plan I present. The connections be-
tween the agents with the army and the principal
officers at the seat of the government admit of such
modifications as may be deemed best. I think it
desirable to separate the quartermaster-general from
the business of procuring supplies, and make him and
his deputies, in this respect, checks. In addition to
this duty he will have numerous military functions
of great importance which will give him abimdant
employment."

^ Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society.

352 Alexander Hamilton

-^ TO WASHINGTON

(Private.)

New York, June 15, 1799.

Dear Sir:

I wrote to you a few days since, chiefly to inform
you of the progress of the measures respecting the
recruiting service, and that the symptoms with re-
gard to it were sufficiently promising. The accounts
continue favorable.

1 have just received a letter from General Wilkin-
son,' dated the 13th April, in which he assures me
he will set out in the ensuing month for the seat of
government. The interview with him will be useful.

It strikes me forcibly that it will be both right
and expedient to advance this gentleman to the
grade of major-general. He has been long steadily
in service and long a brigadier. This in so con-
siderable an extension of the military establishment
gives him a pretension to promotion.

I am aware that some doubts have been enter-
tained of him, and that his character on certain
sides gives room for doubts. Yet he is at present in
the service, is a man of more than ordinary talent —
of courage and enterprise, — has discovered upon
various occasions a good zeal, has embraced military

' James Wilkinson, a soldier of the Revolution, and conspicuous at
the time of Burr's conspiracy and in the War of 1812. He was a bom
intriguer. During the Revolutionary War he was mixed up in the
Conway cabal. He was involved with Burr, whom he finally decided
to give up, at the time of the latter's conspiracy, and in the War of
181 2 he was singularly unsuccessful and contentious. Hamilton's
apparently favorable opinion is rather curious, although it is obvious
that he recommends Wilkinson's promotion with many doubts.

Private Correspondence 353

pursuits as a profession, and will naturally find his
interest, as an ambitious man, in deserving the
favor of the government. While he will be apt to
become disgusted if neglected, and through disgust
may be rendered really what he is now only sus-
pected to be. Under such circumstances it seems to
me good policy to avoid all just grounds of discon-
tent and to make it the interest of the individual to
pursue his duty.

If you should be also of this opinion, I submit to
your considjration whether it would not be advisa-
ble for you to express it in a private letter to the
Secretary of War.'

TO COLONEL TAYLOR'

New York, July 3, 1799.

Sir:

I have written to the Secretary of War agreeably
to the suggestion of your letter of the 26th of June,
respecting Abijah Fenn. It is to be lamented that
the most circumspect men are apt to have too much
facility about recommendations. Warned by this
instance, it is hoped that you will in future not pre-
sent a candidate without personal knowledge or in-
quiry through various channels.

^ Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment,

2 I have not been able to determine absolutely the identity of Col.
Taylor, but I think it must have been Robert Barnard Taylor, of
Virginia, afterwards Brigadier-General of Virginia militia and finally
General in the regular army. This letter is now first printed from the
Hamilton papers in the State Department.

VOL. X. — 23,

354 Alexander Hamilton

TO JAMES McHENRY

(Private.)

New York, July lo, 1799.

Why, my dear friend, do you suffer the business
of providing to go on as it does? Every moment
proves the insufficiency of the existing plan and the
necessity of auxiliaries. I have no doubt that at
Baltimore, New York, Providence, and Boston addi-
tional supplies of clothing may promptly be pro-
cured and prepared by your agents, and it ought
to be done, though it should enhance the expense.
'T is terrible at this juncture that there should be
wants anywhere.

So of tents. Calls for them are repeated from
Massachusetts, where, better and cheaper than any-
where else, they can certainly be provided.

Pray, take a resolution adequate to the emer-
gency, and rescue the credit of your department.^

TO JOSIAH O. HOFFMAN ^

1799.

Sir:

Greenleaf's New Daily Advertiser of this morning
contains a publication entitled, " Extract of a Letter
from Philadelphia, dated September 20th," which
charges me with being at the "bottom of an effort
recently made to suppress the Aurora'' (a news-
paper of that city) by pecuniary means.

^ Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

2 Attorney-General of New York. This letter is undated in original,
and is dated and placed here according to the edition of 1850. It was
'i\ probably written in September or October of this year.

Private Correspondence 355

It is well known that I have long been the object
of the most malignant calumnies of the faction op-
posed to our government through the medium of
the papers devoted to their views. Hitherto I have
forborne to resort to the laws for the punishment of
the authors or abettors, and were I to consult per-
sonal considerations alone, I should continue in this
course, repaying hatred with contempt.

But public motives now compel me to a different
conduct. The designs of that faction to overturn
our government, and with it the great pillars of
social security and happiness in this country, be-
come every day more manifest, and have of late
acquired a degree of system which renders them
formidable.

One principal engine for effecting the scheme is by
audacious falsehoods to destroy the confidence of
the people in all those who are in any degree con-
spicuous among the supporters of the government —
an engine which has been employed in time past
with too much success, and which, unless coimter-
acted in future, is likely to be attended with very
fatal consequences.

To counteract it is therefore a duty to the com-
munity. Among the specimens of this contrivance,
that which is the subject of the present letter demands
peculiar attention. A bolder calumny — one more
absolutely destitute of foundation — was never propa-
gated, and its dangerous tendency needs no com-
ment ; being calculated to inspire the belief that the
independence and liberty of the press are endangered
by the intrigues of ambitious citizens aided by

35^ Alexander Hamilton

foreign gold. In so flagrant a case the force of the
laws must be tried.

I therefore request that you will take immediate
measures towards the prosecution of the persons who
conduct the enclosed paper.

TO WASHINGTON

New York, Oct. 21, 1799.

Dear Sir:

On my return from Trenton the day before yes-
terday I found your private letter of the 13th as
well as your public letter of the 15th instant.

The newspapers have probably informed you that
poor Avery is dead of the yellow fever.
f The President has resolved to send the commis-
sioners to France, notwithstanding the change of
affairs there. He is not understood to have con-
sulted either of his ministers; certainly not either
the Secretary of War or of Finance. All my calcula-
tions lead me to regret the measure. I hope that it
may not in its consequences involve the United
States in a war on the side of France with her
enemies.

My trust in Providence, which has so often inter-
posed in our favor, is my only consolation.

TO TOBIAS LEAR *

New York, Jan. 2, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 15 th of December last was de-
layed in getting to hand by the circumstance of its

^ Washington's private secretary.

Private Correspondence 357

having gone to New York while I was at Philadelphia,
and of its having arrived at Philadelphia after I had
set out on my return to New York.

The very painful event which it announces had,
previous to the receipt of it, filled my heart with
bitterness. Perhaps no man in this community has
equal cause with myself to deplore the loss. I have
been much indebted to the kindness of the General,
and he was an j^gis very essential to me. But re-
grets are unavailing. For great misfortunes it is the
business of reason to seek consolation. The friends
of General Washington have very noble ones. If
virtue can secure happiness in another world, he is
happy. In this the seal is now put upon his glory.
It is no longer in jeopardy from the fickleness of
fortune.

P. S. — In whose hands are his papers gone? Our
very confidential situation will not permit this to be
a point of indifference to me.

TO RUFUS KING

New York, Jan. 5, 1800.

It is indeed a long time, my dear sir, since I have
written to you, and I feel my obligation to you for
the continuance of your correspondence, notwith-
standing my delinquency.

Had it been true that I had left every thing else to
follow the drum, my delinquency would not have
been so great. But our military establishment
offers too little inducement, and is too precarious to

358 Alexander Hamilton

have permitted a total dereliction of professional
pursuits. The double occupation occasioned by
these added military duties, and the attention which
circumstances call me to pay to collateral objects,
engage my time more than ever, and leave me less
leisure to communicate with distant friends.

If the projected cipher was established, I should
now have very much to say to you. But for this the
arrangement is not yet mature. Soon, however, I
hope to make it so, by forwarding to you the coun-
terpart, which is in preparation. I must, however,
give you some sketch of our affairs.

At home every thing is in the main well; except
as to the perverseness and capriciousness of one, and
the spirit of faction of many.

Our measures from the first cause are too much
the effect of momentary impulse. Vanity and
jealousy exclude all coimsel. Passion wrests the
helm from reason.

The irreparable loss of an inestimable man removes
a control which was felt, and was very salutary.

The leading friends of the government are in a sad
dilemma. Shall they risk a serious schism by an
attempt to change? Or shall they annihilate them-
selves and hazard their cause by continuing to up-
hold those who suspect or hate them, and who are
likely to pursue a course for no better reason than
because it is contrary to that which they approve?

The spirit of faction is abated nowhere. In Vir-
ginia it is more violent than ever. It seems de-
monstrated that the leaders there, who possess
completely all the powers of the local government,

Private Correspondence 359

are resolved to possess those of the national, by the
most dangerous combinations; and, if they cannot
effect this, to resort to the employment of physical
force. The want of disposition in the people to sec-
ond them will be the only preventive. It is believed
that it will be an effectual one.

In the two houses of Congress we have a decided
majority. But the dread of unpopularity is likely
to paralyze it, and to prevent the erection of addi-
tional buttresses to the Constitution, a fabric which
can hardly be stationary, and which will retrograde
if it cannot be made to advance.

"In the mass of the people the dispositions are not
bad. An attachment to the system of peace con-
tinues. No project contrary to it could easily con-
ciliate favor. Good-will towards the government,
in my opinion, predominates ; ^ though a numerous
party is still actuated by an opposite sentiment, and
some vague discontents have a more diffused influ-
ence. Sympathy with the French Revolution acts
in a much narrower circle than formerly, but the
jealousy of monarchy, which is as actual as ever,
still furnishes a handle by which the factions mis-
lead well-meaning persons.

In our councils there is no fixed plan. Some are
for preserving and invigorating the navy and de-
stroying the army. Some among the friends of
government for diminishing both on pecuniary
considerations.

My plan is to complete the navy to the contem-
plated extent: say, six ships of the line, twelve frig-
ates, and twenty-four sloops of war; to make no

\

360 Alexander Hamilton

alteration for the present as to the military force;
and, finally, to preserve the organs of the existing
force, reducing the men to a very moderate number.
For this plan there are various reasons that appear
to me solid. I must doubt, however, that it will
finally prevail.

The recent depredations of British cruisers, sanc-
tioned in various instances by the courts, have re-
kindled in many hearts an animosity which was fast
being extinguished. Such persons think they see
in this circumstance a new proof that friendship
towards this country on the part of Great Britain
will always be measured by the scale of her success.
A very perplexing conflict of sensations is the result
of this impression.

I must hasten to a conclusion. It was unnecessary
for me to have told you that for the loss of our illus-
trious friend every heart is in mourning. Adieu.

Who is to be Commander-in-Chief?
Not the next in command. The appointment will
probably be deferred.

TO MRS. MARTHA WASHINGTON

New York, Jan. 12, 1800.

I did not think it proper, madam, to intrude amidst
the first effusions of your grief ; but I can no longer
restrain my sensibility from conveying to you an
imperfect expression of my affectionate sympathy
in the sorrows you experience. No one better than
myself knows the greatness of your loss, or how much
your excellent heart is formed to feel it in all its ex-

Private Correspondence 361

tent. Satisfied that you cannot receive consolation,
I will attempt to offer none. Resignation to the will
of Heaven, which the practice of your life insures,
can alone alleviate the sufferings of so heartrending
an affliction.

There can be few who equally with me participate
in the loss you deplore. In expressing this senti-
ment, I may, without impropriety, allude to the nu-
merous and distinguished marks of confidence and
friendship of which you have yourself been a witness,
but I cannot say in how many ways the continuance
of that confidence and friendship was necessary to
me in future relations. Vain, however, are regrets.
From a calamity which is common to a mourning na-
tion, who can expect to be exempt? Perhaps it is
even a privilege to have a claim to a larger portion
of it than others.

I will only add, madam, that I shall esteem it a
real and a great happiness if any future occurrence
shall enable me to give you proof of that respectful
and cordial attachment with which, etc.

TO CAPTAIN GEORGE IZARD ^

New York, Feb. 27, 1800.

Sir:

Your letter of the 25 th instant was received yes-
terday. I should certainly regret any occurrence

^ Son of Ralph Izard, delegate and Senator from South Carolina.
He was at this time Hamilton's aid, and remained in the army tintil
1803, when he resigned. He re-entered the army in 1812, and at the
close of the war was a major-general, when he again resigned from the
army, and was appointed governor of the Territory of Arkansas, a post
he held tintil his death in 1825.

362 Alexander Hamilton

which might deprive me of your services, unless
being one which was likely to redound to your own
honor and advantage.

It is very certain that the military career in this
country offers too few inducements, and it is equally
certain that my present station in the army cannot
very long continue under the plan which seems to
govern. With these impressions it would consist
with a candid and friendly part towards you to dis-
courage your acceptance of the invitation you men-
tion. You are doubtless aware of the uncertainties
which rest on the diplomatic state also, and after
balancing well you will make your election, perfectly
assured of my cordial acquiescence in either event
and of my constant wishes for your success.

Major Toussard has informed me of his progress
in preparing the regulations. The necessity of your
further attention to this object has ceased.^

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

New York, Feb. 27, 1800.

Dear Sir:

When will Congress probably adjourn? Will any
thing be settled as to a certain election? Will my
presence be requisite as to this or any other purpose,
and when?

I observe more and more that by the jealousy and
envy of some, the miserliness of others, and the con-
curring influence of all foreign powers, America, if

^ Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

Private Correspondence 363

she attains to greatness, must creep to it. Will it be
so? Slow and sure is no bad maxim. Snails are a
wise generation.

P. S. — Unless for indispensable reasons, I had
rather not come.

TO HENRY LEE

New York, March 7, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

The letters to which you allude in yours of the 5th
instant have never been seen by me. The truth is,
that I pay very little attention to such newspaper
ebullitions, unless some friend points out a par-
ticular case which may demand attention.

But be assured once for all, that it is not easy for
these miscreants to impair the confidence in and
friendship for you, which are long habits of my mind;
so that you may join me in looking with indifference
upon their malicious efforts.

You have mistaken a little an observation in my
last. Believe me, that I feel no despondency of any
sort. As to the country, it is too young and vigor-
ous to be quacked out of its political health ; and
as to myself, I feel that I stand on ground which,
sooner or later, will insure me a triumph over all my
enemies.

But in the meantime I am not wholly insensible of
the injustice which I from time to time experience,
and of which, in my opinion, I am at this moment
the victim.

364 Alexander Hamilton

Perhaps my sensibility is the effect of an exag-
gerated estimate of my services to the United States ;
but on such a subject a man will judge for himself;
and if he is misled by his vanity, he must be content
with the mortifications to which it exposes him. In
no event, however, will any displeasure I may feel
be at war with the public interest. This in my eyes
is sacred. Adieu.

TO WILLIAM SMITH

New York, March 11, 1800.

Dear Sir:

You will probably have heard, before this reaches
you, that I had appointed Captain Izard one of my
aids. I part with him to you with all the reluctance
that a strong impression of his merit can inspire.
Yet I do not resist his going, because our military
prospects in general, and mine in particular, are very
uncertain.

Though we have had no communication since your
departure, you may be assured that I have not
ceased to interest myself in your welfare. If you go
to Constantinople, I wish you good luck. It is, per-
haps, past the time for you to play the false Ibrahim.
You see I am in a humor to laugh. What can we
do better in this best of all possible worlds? Should
you even be shut up in the seven towers, or get the
plague, if you are a true philosopher you will con-
sider this only a laughing matter. Adieu.

Private Correspondence 365

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, March 12, 1800.

Sir:

I have written to you heretofore respecting Mr.
Benjamin Wells, who acted as an excise officer in the
western part of Pennsylvania at the time of the dis-
turbances there. But this gentleman has just ar-
rived here, and requests me to mention his case again
to you. I comply with his request.

It appeared from what I saw and heard at the
time, that Mr. Wells distinguished himself by per-
severing exertion to carry the laws into effect. He
was, of course, marked out as an object of vengeance.
The losses which he sustained were very considerable,
and proceeded from the zeal he had displayed in sup-
port of the government. To repair his losses and
reward his zeal, is therefore a duty imposed on the
government by the principles both of justice and
policy. It is imposed by justice — ^for the injuries
were committed by persons in disguise, or under
circumstances which render it impossible to discover
the offenders. It is vain, therefore, to refer Mr.
Wells to the individuals by whose acts he suffered.
This is to tell him that his losses will never be re-
paired.

Policy speaks in this case the same language with
justice. Mr. Wells suffered in consequence of his
efforts to support the government, and of his atten-
tion to duty. Will the government then refuse to
make him compensation? To do so, will be to vio-
late the plainest maxims of policy, as it will effectu-
ally damp the zeal of public officers in every future

366 Alexander Hamilton

case of difficulty. It is not to be expected that in-
dividuals will expose their persons to violence, and
their property to destruction, in support of a govern-
ment that has not generosity sufficient to reward
those who suffer in its cause.

There appears to me to be no doubt of the meri-
torious exertions of Mr. Wells. Even if there were
some doubt, yet the excellent effect which the meas-
ure is calculated to produce on public officers, will
prove a full compensation for the money that may
be advanced. I recollect to have mentioned to Mr.
Wells, and other persons in the same capacity, that
I considered the government as bound to indemnify
them. So far, therefore, as my opinion could pledge
the government, it was pledged. In giving this
opinion I thought I was promoting the best interests
of the nation, and it appears to me that the govern-
ment will very widely mistake its policy in refusing
to allow these men all reasonable claims.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, March 15, 1800.

Dear Sir:

The bearer of this, Mr. DuPont, formerly consul
at Charleston, is personally known to you. He
comes with the rest of his family to establish them-
selves in the United States. They are desirous of
being favorably viewed by our government, and my
intervention for this purpose has been requested.

Inclosed is a letter from General Pinckney, which

Private Correspondence 367

speaks for itself. All that has come to my know-
ledge of this particular gentleman is recommenda-
tory of him, as far as situation has permitted. I
have always understood that his sentiments towards
this country have been amicable, and that he has
not been very deeply tinctured with the revolution-
ary spirit of his own, though circumstances have
placed him in office under the new government. And
I believe, if ever diseased, he is now perfectly cured.
He is afraid that some expressions respecting the in-
fluence of the British Government in this country
may have given an ill impression. He explains by
saying, first, that they are qualified; second, that
they were a necessary concession to the prejudices
of the persons to whom his observations were ad-
dressed, calculated to procure attention to the con-
ciliatory plan which he recommended, by screening
him from the suspicion of being a corrupted partisan
of this country. This solution seems to me an ad-
missible one. In addressing enthusiasts, it is com-
monly requisite to adopt a little of their nonsense.

He has delivered me a paper which he sent to the
Aurora to be published, but which he said was sup-
pressed, and some thing of an insidious complexion
substituted. He delivers the true communication,
that it may be seen what he really did.

I am much mistaken if his father be not really a
benevolent, well-disposed man. Indeed, the family
generally impress us here agreeably, and we are in-
clined to augur well of them.'

' Now first printed from the Pickering papers in the possession of the
Massachusetts Historical Society.

368 Alexander Hamilton

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, April 7, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I thank yoii for the disposition shown to accom-
modate Mr. Robertson. When I saw him some days
ago, he hoped that the matter would be placed upon
the footing which was indicated.

I would readily comply with the wish of Mr. Evans,
was I sure that it would not be a breach of propriety
towards Mr. Madison. But if my memory does not
deceive me, there was a sort of understanding be-
tween us that there should be no disclosure but by
mutual consent. You will be sensible that I ought
to be peculiarly circumspect with regard to this
gentleman. '

TO general CHARLES COTESWORTH PINCKNEY

(Private.)

New York, April 10, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I am perfectly content with the delay of com-
munication to the Rev. Mr. Hill until the effect of
your experiments with the Secretary of War shall be
known.

I have heard nothing as to the impression made
by our mission to France upon the combined powers,

^ Now first printed from the Wolcott papers in the possession of the
Connecticut Historical Society. Mr. Evans's question must have re-
ferred, I think, to the authorship of the Federalist, and one cannot help
contrasting Hamilton's nice sense of honor, as shown here, with the
course of Monroe in the Reynolds case. With Hamilton his differences
with Madison only served to make him more circumspect.

Private Correspondence 369

but I cannot doubt that it is a disagreeable one, and
certainly the course of events lately has not said
much for the good policy of the measure. This cal-
culation of the President on a general peace as the
main argument for what was done, proves at least
to be as fallacious as I ventured to predict to him
just after he had resolved to consummate the error.
Captain Izard has accepted his appointment under
Mr. Smith, and has sailed for Europe.

Mrs. H, and myself have learned with great
pleasure the amendment of Mrs. P.'s health. Offer
her and accept yourself our felicitations and best
wishes.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

April 25, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I send you the paragraph of a newspaper just pub-
lished. I hope it is an electioneering lie; but as it
is likely to do mischief, I will thank you, by return
of post, to inform me whether you have any thing to
confirm or refute, and particularly whether you have
heard of the list with which Commodore Truxtim's'
name is connected.

I Thomas Truxtun, the first of otir naval officers to win distinction.
He had been Captain of the Constellation, and in that frigate captured
the French frigate L'Insurgente, Feb. 9, 1799. A year later he over-
came another — La Vengeance, but she escaped by an accident to one
of the masts of Truxtun's ship. In 1802, he was given the command
of the Tripoli expedition, but refusing to go because the department
would not allow him a captain as usual for his flag-ship, Jefferson dis-
missed him from the service. It is needless to add that he had always
been a strong Federalist.

VOL. X.— 24.

370 Alexander Hamilton

(Copy of enclosed paragraph)

New Haven, April isth.

Captain James Stewart, of Chatham, in the brig Sally,
arrived at New London on the 4th instant, from Jamaica,
brings the most unpleasant accounts from that quarter.
He states that the British capture all American vessels
that afford the slightest pretext for condemnation, and
impress all their seamen without discrimination. Cap-
tain Stewart was taken by his majesty's ship A casta, of
forty-four guns, the commander of which, Edward Fel-
lows, came on board the Sally himself, ordered Captain
Stewart's chest open, and, with his own hands, took out
4250 dollars, besides plundering the captain of other
articles.

On the arrival of the brig at Kingston, every man on
board except the captain and boy, all natives of Con-
necticut, were impressed, and are left there. Captain
Nathan Allyn, of Groton, had all his people impressed,
with their protections in their hands. Captain Water-
man, of New York, was treated in the same manner, with
many others. And Mr. Savage, the American agent in
Kingston, informed Captain Stewart that he had for-
warded to the Secretary of State, by Commodore Trux-
tun, an attested list of the names of one thousand and
one bona fide American seamen who have lately been im-
pressed by the British in that single port. American
vessels and cargoes were constantly condemned in that
place, a full account of which must soon be made public.
Several masters and supercargoes of condemned vessels
came home with Captain Stewart, who, besides the gen-
eral usage, was himself treated with personal incivilities
and contempt.

Private Correspondence 371

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

May 4, 1800.

Dear Sir:

You have heard of the loss of our election in the
city of New York. This renders it too probable that
the electors of President for this State will be anti-
federal. If so, the policy which I was desirous of
pursuing at the last election is now recommended by
motives of additional cogency.

To support Adams and Pinckney equally is the
only thing that can possibly save us from the fangs
of Jefferson.

It is, therefore, essential that the Federalists
should not separate without coming to a distinct
and solemn concert to pursue this course bona fide.

Pray attend to this, and let me speedily hear from
you that it is done.

TO JOHN JAY

New York, May 7, 1800.

Dear Sir:

You have been informed of the loss of our election
in this city. It is also known that we have been
unfortunate throughout Long Island and in West-
chester. According to the returns hitherto, it is too
probable that we lose our senators for this district.

The moral certainty therefore is, that there will
be an anti-federal majority in the ensuing Legisla-
ture ; and the very high probability is that this will
bring Jefferson into the chief magistracy, unless it be

^iT^ Alexander Hamilton

prevented by the measure which I shall now submit
to your consideration, namely, the immediate calling
together of the existing Legislature.

I am aware that there are weighty objections to

the measure, but the reasons for it appear to me to

outweigh the objections; and in times like these in

\ which we live, it will not do to be over-scrupulous.

/ It is easy to sacrifice the substantial interests of society

by a strict adherence to ordinary rules.

In observing this, I shall not be supposed to mean
that any thing ought to be done which integrity will
forbid, but merely that the scruples of delicacy and
propriety, as relative to a common course of things,
ought to yield to the extraordinary nature of the
\ crisis. They ought not to hinder the taking of a
legal and constitutional step to prevent an atheist in
religion, and a fanatic in politics, from getting pos-
session of the helm of state.

You, sir, know in a great degree the anti-federal
party ; but I fear you do not know them as well as I
do. It is a composition, indeed, of very incongru-
ous materials; but all tending to mischief — some of
them, to the overthrow of the Government, by
stripping it of its due energies; others of them, to a
Revolution, after the manner of Bonaparte. I
speak from indubitable facts, not from conjectures
and inferences. In proportion as the true character
of the party is understood, is the force of the con-
siderations which urge to every effort to disappoint
it; and it seems to me, that there is a very solemn
obligation to employ the means in our power.

The calling of the Legislature will have for its ob-

Private Correspondence 373

\

ject the choosing of electors by the people in districts;
this (as Pennsylvania will do nothing) will insure a
majority of votes in the United States for a federal
.candidate. The measure will not fail to be approved
by all the federal party; while it will, no doubt, be
condemned by the opposite. As to its intrinsic na-
ture, it is justified by unequivocal reasons of Public
Safety.

The reasonable part of the world will, I believe,
approve it. They will see it as a proceeding out of
the common course, but warranted by the particular
nature of the crisis and the great cause of social
order.

If done, the motive ought to be frankly avowed.
In your communication to the Legislature they ought
to be told that temporary circumstances had ren-
dered it probable that, without their interposition,
the executive authority of the general government
would be transferred to hands hostile to the system
heretofore pursued with so much success, and dan-
gerous to the peace, happiness, and order of the
country; that under this impression, from facts con-
vincing to your own mind, you had thought it your
duty to give the existing Legislature an opportunity
for deliberating whether it would not be proper to
interpose, and endeavor to prevent so great an evil
by referring the choice of electors to the people dis-
tributed into districts.

In weighing this suggestion you will doubtless bear
in mind that popular governments must certainly be ^^•
overturned, and, while they endure, prove engines
of mischief, if one party will call to its aid all the

374 Alexander Hamilton

resources which vice can give, and if the other (how-
ever pressing the emergency) confines itself within
all the ordinary forms of delicacy and decorum.

The Legislature can be brought together in three
weeks, so that there will be full time for the object;
but none ought to be lost.

Think well, my dear sir, of this proposition — ap-
preciate the extreme danger of the crisis; and I am
unusually mistaken in my view of the matter, if
you do not see it right and expedient to adopt the
measure.'

/

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

New York, May 8, 1800.

I thank you, my dear sir, for your letter of the 5th
instant, which was received yesterday. The measure
you mention has been attempted, but without much
hope of success.

Yet our friends are to-day in good spirits. The
accounts from the northward, apparently authentic,
give us the strong hope of still having a majority in
our Legislature. But, be this as it may, our welfare
depends absolutely on a faithful adherence to the
plan which has been adopted. New York, if federal,
will not go for Mr. Adams unless there shall be as
firm a pledge as the nature of the thing will admit,
that Mr. Pinckney will be equally supported in the
Northern States.

I The proposition in this letter was one entirely \in worthy of Hamil-
ton. It was due to his anger and disgust at the result of the election
in New York. Jay endorsed the letter "Proposing a measure for
party purposes which it wotdd not become me to adopt."

Private Correspondence 375

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

New York, May lo, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I am very sorry for the information contained in
your letter of the 7 th. But I am not intimate enough
with Dexter to put myself upon paper to him.

If on his return I can catch him at New York I
shall have a particular conversation with him.

He is, I am persuaded, much mistaken as to the
opinion entertained of Mr. Adams by the federal
party. Were I to determine from my own observa-
tion, I should say most of the most influential men of
that party consider him as a very unfit and incapable
character.

For my individual part my mind is made up. I
will never more be responsible for him by my direct
support, even though the consequence should be the
election of Jefferson.

If we must have an enemy at the head of the gov-
ernment, let it be one whom we can oppose, and for
whom we are not responsible, who will not involve
our party in the disgrace of his foolish and bad
measures. Under Adams, as under Jefferson, the
government will sink. The party in the hands of
whose chief it shall sink will sink with it, and the
advantage will all be on the side of his adversaries.

'T is a notable expedient for keeping the federal
party together, to have at the head of it a man who
hates and is despised by those men of it who, in
time past, have been its most efficient supporters.
If the cause is to be sacrificed to a weak and per-
verse man, I withdraw from the party and act upon

2,7^ Alexander Hamilton

my own ground — never certainly against my prin-
ciples, but in pursuance of them in my own way. I
am mistaken if others do not do the same.

The only way to prevent a fatal schism in the fed-
eral party is to support General Pinckney in good
earnest.

If I can be perfectly satisfied that Adams and
Pinckney will be upheld in the East with entire good
faith, on the ground of conformity, I will, wherever
my influence may extend, pursue the same plan.

If not, I will pursue Mr. Pinckney as my single
object. Adieu.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

May 14, 1800.

My Dear Sir:

I perceive that you as well as McHenry are quitting
the administration. I am not informed how all this
has been, though I conjecture. Allow me to suggest
that you ought to take with you copies and extracts
of all such documents as will enable you to explain
both Jefferson and Adams. You are aware of a very
curious journal of the latter when he was in Europe
— a tissue of weakness and vanity.

The time is coming when men of real integrity
and energy must write against all empirics. '

' Now first printed from the Pickering papers in the possession of the
Massachusetts Historical Society.

Private Correspondence Zll

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Jiily i, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I send you the enclosed; if any good use can be
made of it, you will do it. I have been in Massa-
chusetts, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island. There
is little doubt of federal electors in all, but there is
considerable doubt of a perfect union in favor of
Pinckney.

The leaders of the first class are generally right,
but those of the second class are too much disposed
to be wrong. It is essential to inform the most dis-
creet of this description of the facts which denote
unfitness in Mr. Adams. I have promised confiden-
tial friends a correct statement. To be able to give
it, I must derive aid from you, and any thing you
may write shall, if you please, be returned to you.
But you must be exact, and much in detail. The
history of the mission to France, from the first steps
connected with the declarations in the speech to Con-
gress down to the last proceeding, is very important.

I have serious thoughts of writing to the President,
to tell him that I have heard of his having repeatedly
mentioned the existence of a British faction in this
country, and alluded to me as one of that faction,
requesting that he will inform me of the truth of this
information, and, if true, what have been the grounds
of the suggestion. His friends are industrious in
propagating the idea, to defeat the efforts to unite
for Pinckney. The inquiry I propose may furnish an
antidote and vindicate character. What think you
of this idea ? For my part, I can set malice at defiance.

>i>

37^ Alexander Hamilton

TO CHARLES CARROLL '

New York, Jtily i, 1800.

Dear Sir:

/ I yesterday returned from an excursion through
three of the four Eastern States, and found your
letter of the i8th of April. It is very necessary that
the true and independent friends of the government
should communicate and understand each other at
the present very embarrassed and dangerous crisis
of public affairs. I am glad, therefore, of the oppor-
tunity which your letter affords me of giving you
some explanations which may be useful. They are
given without reserve, because the times forbid tem-
porizing, and I hold no opinions which I have any
motives to dissemble. As to the situation of this
State with regard to the election of President, it
is perfectly ascertained that, on a joint ballot of
the two houses of our Legislature, the opposers of
the government will have a majority of more than

, twenty, a majority which can by no means be over-
come. Consequently all our electors will vote for
Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Burr. I think there is little
cause to doubt that the electors in the four Eastern
States will all be federal.

The only question seems to be as to Rhode Island,
where there is some division, and a state of things
rather loose. Governor Fenner, as far as he may
dare, will promote the interest of Jefferson.

A considerable diversion in favor of the opposition

^ Charles Carroll, of Maryland, who lived to be the last survivor of the
signers of the Declaration of Independence. Among the Hamilton
papers in the State Department is a draft of this letter addressed to
Jonathan R. Wilmer, also of Maryland.

Private Correspondence 379

has lately been made in New Jersey, but the best
and best-informed men there entertain no doubt that
all her electors will still be federal, and I believe this
opinion may be relied upon.

I go no further south, as I take it for granted your
means of calculation with regard to that quarter are
at least equal to mine.

The result of a comprehensive view of the subject
seems to me to be that the event is uncertain, but
that the probability is that a universal adherence of
the Federalists to Pinckney will exclude Jefferson.

On this point there is some danger, though the
greatest number of strong-minded men in New Eng-
land are not only satisfied of the expediency of sup-
porting Pinckney as giving the best chance against
Jefferson, but even prefer him to Adams; yet, in the
body of that people there is a strong personal at-
tachment to this gentleman, and most of the leaders
of the second class are so anxious for his re-election
that it will be difficult to convince them that there
is as much danger of its failure as there unquestion-
ably is, or to induce them faithfully to co-operate
in Mr. Pinckney, notwithstanding their common and
strong dread of Jefferson.

It may become advisable, in order to oppose their
fears to their prejudices, for the middle States to de-
clare that Mr. Adams will not be supported at all,
when, seeing his success desperate, they would be
driven to adhere to Pinckney. In this plan New
Jersey, and even Connecticut, may be brought to
concur. For both these States have generally lost
confidence in Mr. Adams.

380 Alexander Hamilton

But this will be best decided by future events and
elucidations. In the meantime, it is not advisable
that Maryland should be too deeply pledged to the
support of Mr. Adams.

That this gentleman ought not to be the object
of the federal wish is, with me, reduced to demon-
stration. His administration has already very ma-
terially disgraced and sunk the government. There
are defects in his character which must inevitably
continue to do this more and more. And if he is
supported by the federal party, his party must, in
the issue, fall with him. Every other calculation
will, in my judgment, prove illusory.

Doctor Franklin, a sagacious observer of human
nature, drew this portrait of Mr. Adams: "He is
always honest, sometimes great, but often mad.'' I
subscribe to the justness of this picture, adding, as
^ to the first trait of it, this qualification: "as far as
a man excessively vain and jealous and ignobly at-
tached to place can be."

TO SAMUEL DEXTER '

New York, July 9, 1800.

Sir: '^ "Z

From a letter (not, however, couched in very ex-
plicit terms) which I have received from Mr. Bu-
reaux de Pusy,^ I am induced to think that this

' Samuel Dexter, the eminent lawyer of Massachusetts, at this time
Secretary of War.

2 Jean Xavier Bureaux de Pusy was, as here said, a distinguished
French officer and friend of Lafayette, whose imprisonment he shared
at Olmutz. He came to this country in 1797, but returned after the
1 8th Brumaire, and filled in succession three important prefectures
under Napoleon.

Private Correspondence 381

gentleman would be willing to accept an appointment
in the service of the United States.

He was, under the royal government, an engineer
of distinction in the service of France. You are, I
dare say, informed of his political history. He w^as
a member and once president of the constituent
assembly. Attached warmly to Lafayette and in-
volved in his fortunes, he withdrew with him and was
his fellov/ prisoner with the Russians and Austrians.
Tired of the tempest of Europe himself, with his
father-in-law DuPont de Nemours,' and the whole
connection have removed to this country and made
a little establishment in Bergen County, New Jersey.

His professional pretensions admit of no dispute.
His private character is amuable ; his intelligence and
information are highly respectable.

After mature reflection I am well satisfied that it
is advisable for the United States to engage him if
they can. He may be one of the two engineers
whom the President is empowered to employ with
the grade of colonel and such emoluments as he may
think proper to agree for.

As the grade is rather below the pretensions of
Mr. de Pusy, he may expect an increase of emolu-
ments, which indeed is agreeable to the spirit of the
provision made for this object.

There is a little probability of finding a person

' Pierre Samuel DuPont de Nemours, an eminent French economist
and statesman. He took an active part in the Revolution, sustaining
the moderate party, was thrown into prison, and narrowly escaped
transportation. He came to this country in 1797, returned in 1802,
but declined office under Napoleon, and in 1815 came back to the
United States, where he died two years later.

382 Alexander Hamilton

better qualified than in all probability is this gentle-
man.

The institution of a military academy being an
object of primary importance, will, I doubt not,
be zealously pursued. Whenever it shall take place,
Mr. de Pusy will be a most desirable character to be
at the head of it."

^^^ ' New York, Aug. i, 1800.

Sir:

It has been repeatedly mentioned to me that you
have on different occasions asserted the existence of
a British faction in this country, embracing a num-
ber of leading or influential characters of the federal
party, as usually denominated; and that you have
sometimes named me, at others plainly alluded to
me, as one of this description of persons. And I
have likewise been assured that of late some of your
warm adherents, for electioneering purposes, have
employed a corresponding language. I must, sir,
take it for granted that you cannot have made such
assertions or insinuations without being willing to
avow them, and to assign the reasons to a party who
may conceive himself injured by them. I therefore
trust that you will not deem it improper, that I
apply directly to yourself, to ascertain from you, in
reference to your own declarations, whether the in-
formation I have received is correct or not, and if
correct, what are the grounds upon which you have
founded the suggestion.

^ Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

Private Correspondence 383

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Aug. 3, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I have, two days since, written to Mr. Adams a
I respectful letter on the subject I heretofore men-
tioned to you. Occupation at court prevented its
being done sooner.

But I wait with impatience for the statement of
facts which you promised me. It is plain that, un-
less we give our reasons in some form or other, Mr.
Adams' personal friends, seconded by the Jacobins, '
will completely run us down in the public opinion.
Your name, in company with mine, that of T. Pick-\
ering etc., is in full circulation, as one of the British
faction of which Mr. Adams has talked so much.

I have serious thoughts of giving to the public my
opinion respecting Mr. Adams, with my reasons, in
a letter to a friend, with my signature. This seems
to me the most authentic way of conveying the in-
formation, and best suited to the plain dealing of my
character. There are, however, reasons against it;
and a very strong one is, that some of the principal
causes of my disapprobation proceed from yourself,
and other members of the administration, who
would be understood to be the sources of my infor-
mation, whatever cover I might give the thing.

What say you to this measure ? I could predicate
it on the fact that I am abused by the friends of Mr.
Adams, who ascribe my opposition to pique and
disappointment; and could give it the shape of a
defence of myself.

You have doubtless seen the Aurora publication

384 Alexander Hamilton

of treasury documents, and the manner in which my
name is connected with it. These publications do
harm with the ignorant, who are the greatest num-
ber. I have thoughts of insinuating an action of
slander, to be tried by a struck jury, against the
editor. If I do it, I should claim you and the super-
visors, collectors, and loan officers of all the States,
from Maryland to New York, inclusively, as wit-
nesses, to demonstrate completely the malice and
falsity of the accusation. What think you of this?
You see I am in a very belligerent humor.

But I remember that, at the outset, before the
sums payable for interest, pensions, etc., were as-
certained, I placed the money in the hands of the
paying officers, upon estimate, and that, to avoid
disappointment, I made the estimates large. Pray
look into this, and see how far it may give any color
to the calumny.

Let me hear from you soon.

TO JAMES ASHTON BAYARD *

New York, Aug. 6, 1800.

Dear Sir:

The president of Columbia College, in this city, has
resigned, and we are looking out for a successor. Dr.
Wharton has occurred to me as a character worthy
of inquiry; and the great confidence I feel in your
judgment and candor, induces me to have recourse
to you.

' At this time member of Congress, from Delaware; afterwards for
many years Senator from that State. He was one of the peace com-
missioners at Ghent, and died soon after his rettim, in August, 1815.

Private Correspondence 385

We are extremely anxious to have a well-qualified
man, as this is the only thing wanted to render our
institution very flourishing. We have two very good
professors — one of the languages, the other of the
mathematics and natural philosophy; and we have
a professor of chemistry — this branch having been
lately made a part of the academic course, — together
with better funds, as I believe, than any similar in-
stitution in the United States. I mention these par-
ticulars to impress you with the importance of our
college to the cause of literature, and with the duty
which thence results of peculiar circumspection and
care in the choice of a president. It is essential
that he be a gentleman in his manners, as well as a
sound and polite scholar; that his moral character
be irreproachable; that he possess energy of body
and mind, and be of a disposition to maintain disci-
pline without undue austerity; and, in the last place,
that his politics be of the right sort. I beg you to
inform me particularly how far Dr. Wharton meets
this description, in what, if any thing, he fails. You
will, of course, see the propriety of mentioning no-
thing about this inquiry.

In the present eventful crisis of our affairs, a mu-
tual communication of informations and opinions •
among influential men of the federal party, may be
attended with some advantage to their cause. Un-
der this impression I shall give you a summary of the
state of things north of the Delaware; south of it,
your information is likely to be as good as mine ; and, '^ ,1 i)i)
accordingly, I shall request your view of what is to
be expected from that quarter. In New Hampshire

VOL. X.— 25. ;

386 Alexander Hamilton

there is no doubt of federal electors; but there is
a decided partiality for Mr. Adams. I took pains
to possess Governor Gilman, whose influence is very
preponderating, of the errors and defects of Mr.
Adams, and of the danger that no candidate can pre-
vail, by mere federal strength; consequently of the
expediency and necessity of unanimously voting for
General Pinckney (who, in the South, may get some
anti-federal votes) as the best chance of excluding
Mr. Jefferson. The Governor appeared convinced of
the soundness of these views, and cautiously gave
me to expect his co-operation. Yet I do not count
upon New Hampshire for more than two things:
one, a unanimous vote for Mr. Adams ; the other, no
vote for any Anti-federalist. In Massachusetts, al-
/ most all the leaders of the first class are dissatisfied
with Mr. Adams ; and enter heartily into the policy
of supporting General Pinckney. But most of the
leaders of the second class are attached to Mr. Adams,
and fearful of jeopardizing his election by promoting
that of General Pinckney ; and the mass of the peo-
ple are well affected to him and to his administra-
tion. Yet I have strong hopes that, by the exertions
of the principal Federalists, Massachusetts will unani-
mously vote for Adams and Pinckney. Rhode
Island is in a state somewhat uncertain. Schisms
have grown up from personal rivalships, which have
been improved by the Anti-federalists, to strengthen
their interests. Governor Fenner expresses a hope
that there will be two anti-federal electors ; but our
friends reject this idea as wholly improbable. But
I am not quite convinced that they know the ground.

Private Correspondence z^7

In every event, however, I expect that Mr. Adams
will have there an unanimous vote.

I think nothing can be relied upon as to General
Pinckney. Connecticut will, I doubt not, unani-
mously vote for General Pinckney, but, being very
much displeased with Mr. Adams, it will require the jy

explicit advice of certain gentlemen to induce them
to vote for him. No Anti-federalist has any chance
there. About Vermont I am not as yet accurately
informed, but I believe Adams and Pinckney will
both have all the votes. In New York, all the votes
will certainly be for Jefferson and Burr. New Jersey
does not stand as well as she used to do. The Antis
hope for the votes of this State, but I think they will
be disappointed. If the electors are federal, Pinck-
ney will certainly be voted for, and Adams will be,
or not, as leading friends shall advise. Adding to
this view of the Northern what I have imderstood
of the Southern quarter, our prospects are not bril-
liant. There seems to be too much probability that
Jefferson or Burr will be President. The latter is \
intriguing with all his might in New Jersey, Rhode i
Island, and Vermont, and there is a possibility of
some success in his intrigues. He counts positively
on the universal support of the Anti-federalists, and !
that, by some adventitious aid from other quarters,
he will overtop his friend Jefferson. Admitting the
first point, the conclusion may be realized; and if it
is so. Burr will certainly attempt to reform the gov-
ernment a la Bonaparte. He is as tmprincipled and
dangerous a man as any country can boast — as true
a Catiline as ever met in midnight conclave.

^^ i (L-^^^_^ ffj ^^

388 Alexander Hamilton

TO JAMES McHENRY

New York, Aug. 27, 1800.

Indeed, my dear Mac, I have not enough the gift
of second sight to foresee what New England will do.

The mass of the people there are attached to
Adams and the leaders of the second class pretty
generally. The leaders of the first class pretty gen-
erally promote the joint support of Adams and
Pinckney, either because they dislike Adams, or hate
or fear Jefferson.

Upon the whole, I believe, though not with perfect
assurance, that Pinckney will have almost all the
votes of New England. Adams will have all.

The State of New Jersey is more uncertain than I
could wish. Parties will be too nicely balanced there.
But our friends continue confident of a favorable
result. If the electors in this State are federal, they
will certainly vote for Pinckney, and I rather think
will do, with respect to Mr. Adams, what may be
thought right.

In New York, there is no chance for any federal
candidate.

I think, at all events, Maryland had better choose
by the Legislature. If we have a majority of federal
votes throughout, we can certainly exclude Jeffer-
son, and, if we please, bring the question between
Adams and Pinckney to the House of Represent-
atives.

We fight Adams on very unequal grounds, because
we do not declare the motives of our dislike. The
exposition of these is very important — ^but how? I
would make it and put my name to it, but I cannot

Private Correspondence 389

do it without its being conclusively inferred that as
to very material facts I must have derived my in-
formation from members of the administration. Yet,
without this, we have the air of mere caballers, and
shall be completely run down in the public opinion.
I have written a letter, of which I shall send a copy
to you, another to Wolcott. If I am not forbidden.
Colonel Ogden, to whom it will be addressed, will
commit it to the newspapers.

P. S. — I have concluded to send the enclosed to
you instead of Major Jackson.'

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Sept. a6, 1800.

Dear Sir:

As I hinted to you some time since, I have drafted
a letter which it is my wish to send to influential in-
dividuals in the New England States. I hope from
it two advantages — the promoting of Mr. Pinckney's
election and the vindication of ourselves.

You may depend upon it, a very serious impres-
sion has been made on the public mind, by the par- i
tisans of Mr. Adams, to our disadvantage; that the
facts hitherto known have very partially impaired ^ ~,^^
the confidence of the body of the Federalists in Mr.
Adams, who, for want of information, are disposed
to regard his opponents as factious men. If this can-
not be counteracted, our characters are the sacrifice.

^ Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

390 Alexander Hamilton

To do it, facts must be stated with some authentic
stamp. Decorum may not permit going into the
newspapers, but the letter may be addressed to so
many respectable men of influence as may give its
contents general circulation,
t What say you to the measure ? Anonymous pub-
lications can now effect nothing.

Some of the most delicate of the facts stated I hold
from the three ministers, yourself particularly, and I
do not think myself at liberty to take the step with-
out your consent. I never mean to bring proof, but
to stand upon the credit of my own veracity.

Say quickly what is to be done, for there is no
time to spare. Give me your opinion not only of the
measure, but of the fashion and spirit of the letter in
regard to utility and propriety. If there are excep-
tionable ideas or phrases, note them.

As it is a first draught, there is much I should my-
self mend. But I have not now leisure for it pre-
vious to your inspection.^

TO JOHN ADAMS

New York, Oct. i, 1800.

Sir:

The time which has elapsed since my letter of the
I St Aug. was delivered to you precludes the further
expectation of an answer.

From this silence I will draw no inference, nor will
I presume to judge of the fitness of silence on such an

^ Reprinted from the Administrations of Washington and Adams, ii.,
421.

Private Correspondence 391

occasion on the part of the chief magistrate of a re-
pubHc towards a citizen who, without a stain, has
discharged so many important pubhc trusts.

But this much I will affirm, that by whomsoever a
charge of the kind mentioned in my former letter
may at any time have been made or insinuated
against me, it is a base, wicked, and cruel calumny,
destitute even of a plausible pretext to excuse the
folly or the depravity which must have dictated it.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING

New York, Nov. 13, 1800.

Dear Sir:

You no doubt have seen my pamphlet respecting
the conduct and character of President Adams. The
press teems with replies, and I may finally think it
expedient to publish a second time. In this case I
shall reinforce my charges by new anecdotes. My
friends will, no doubt, be disposed to aid me. You
probably possess some which are unknown to me.
Pray let me have them without delay.

You will observe that a prejudice is attempted to
be excited against you as wishing to bring about an
alliance with Great Britain. Explain to me fully
this affair. I remember that you once consulted me
about the expediency of the measure, and that I in
reply gave you my opinion. I think it was that the -;. "^ ^

thing was in any event problematical — that it was
not advisable to go into at the time — that the most
prudent course would be for Great Britain to have
a power competent to the purpose vested in her

392 Alexander Hamilton

Minister in this country, and to take the matter ad
referendum to be governed by future circumstances.
I have not a copy of my letter. You will oblige
me by letting me have it.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

New York, Dec. i6, 1800.

It is now, my dear sir, ascertained that Jefferson
or Burr will be President, and it seems probable that
they will come with equal votes to the House of
Representatives. It is also circulated here that, in
this event, the Federalists in Congress, or some of
them, talk of preferring Burr. I trust New England,
at least, will not so far lose its head as to fall into
this snare. There is no doubt but that, upon every
virtuous and prudent calculation, Jefferson is to be
preferred. He is by far not so dangerous a man;
and he has pretensions to character.

As to Burr, there is nothing in his favor. His pri-
vate character is not defended by his most partial
friends. He is bankrupt beyond redemption, except
by the plunder of his country. His public principles
have no other spring or aim than his own aggrand-
izement, per fas et nefas. If he can, he will certainly
disturb our institutions, to secure to himself per-
manent power, and with it wealth. He is truly the
Catiline of America; and, if I may credit Major
i\\\^- Wilcocks, he has held very vindictive language re-
specting his opponents.

But early measures must be taken to fix on this
point the opinions of the Federalists. Among them,

Private Correspondence 393

from different motives, Burr will find partisans. If
the thing be neglected, he may possibly go far.

Yet it may be well enough to throw out a lure for
him, in order to tempt him to start for the plate, and
then lay the foundation of dissension between the
two chiefs.

You may communicate this letter to Marshall^
and Sedgwick. Let me hear speedily from you in
reply.

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

December 17, 1800.

Your last letter, my dear sir, has given me great
pain, not only because it informed me that the opin-
ion in favor of Mr. Burr was increasing among the
Federalists, but because it also told me that Mr. >
Sedgwick was one of its partisans. I have a letter
from this gentleman, in which he expresses decidedly
his preference of Mr. Jefferson. I hope you have
been mistaken, and that it is not possible for him to
have been guilty of so great duplicity."

There is no circumstance which has occurred in
the course of our political affairs that has given me
so much pain as the idea that Mr. Burr might be ele-
vated to the Presidency by the means of the Federal-
ists. I am of opinion that this party has hitherto
solid claims of merit with the public, and so long as
it does nothing to forfeit its title to confidence, I

^ John Marshall, at this time Secretary of State, and afterwards
Chief-Justice.

2 Hamilton was right, and Wolcott mistaken; Sedgwick preferred .,. i^^ /^
Jefferson. -72 /

394 Alexander Hamilton

shall continue to hope that our misfortunes are tem-
porary, and that the party will erelong emerge from
its depression. But if it shall act a foolish or un-
worthy part in any capital instance, I shall then
despair.

Such, without doubt, will be the part it will act, if
it shall seriously attempt to support Mr. Burr, in op-
position to Mr. Jefferson. If it fails, as, after all, is
not improbable, it will have riveted the animosity
of that person ; will have destroyed or weakened the
motives to moderation which he must at present feel,
and it will expose them to the disgrace of a defeat, in
an attempt to elevate to the first place of the govern-
ment one of the worst men in the community.

If it succeeds, it will have done nothing more nor
less than place in that station a man who will possess
the boldness and daring necessary to give success to
the Jacobin system, instead of one who, for want of
that quality, will be less fitted to promote it.

Let it not be imagined that Mr. Burr can be won to
the federal views. It is a vain hope. Stronger ties
and stronger inducements than they can offer will
impel him in a different direction. His ambition
will not be content with those objects which virtuous
men of either party will allot to it, and his situation
and his habits will oblige him to have recourse to
corrupt expedients, from which he will be restrained
by no moral scruple. To accomplish his ends, he
must lean upon unprincipled men, and will continue
to adhere to the myrmidons who have hitherto sec-
onded him. To these he will, no doubt, add able
rogues of the federal party, but he will employ the

.^v^^^

v/. «4'

Private Correspondence 395

rogues of all parties to overrule the good men of all
parties, and to prosecute projects which wise men
of every description will disapprove.

These things are to be inferred, with moral cer-
tainty, from the character of the man. Every step
in his career proves that he has formed himself upon
the model of Catiline, and he is too cold-blooded and
too determined a conspirator ever to change his plan.

What would you think of these toasts and this
conversation at his table within the last three or four
weeks ?

ist. The French republic.

2d. The commissioners on both sides who nego-
tiated the convention.

3d. Bonaparte.

4th. Lafayette.

What would you think of his having seconded the
positions, that it was the interest of this country to
allow the belligerent powers to bring in and sell their
prizes, and build and equip ships in our ports? Do
you not see in this the scheme of war with Great
Britain, as the instrument of power and wealth? ' ^'^
Can it be doubted that a man who has all his life
speculated upon the popular prejudices, will consult
them in the object of a war when he thinks it is expe-
dient to make one ? Can a man who, despising de- „ .771' i? ^
mocracy, has chimed in with all its absurdities, be ' '^'^
diverted from the plan of ambition which must have
directed his course? They who suppose it must
understand little of human nature.

If Jefferson is President, the whole responsibility , -^"'^

of bad measures will rest with the Anti-federalists. ''

U06-

li

39^ Alexander Hamilton

If Burr is made so by the Federalists, the whole re-
sponsibility will rest with them. The other party
will say to the people: We intended him only for
Vice-President; here he might have done very well,
or been at least harmless. But the Federalists, to
disappoint us, and a majority of you, took advan-
tage of a momentary superiority to put him in the
first place. He is therefore their President, and
they must answer for all the evils of his bad conduct.
And the people will believe them.

Will any reasonable calculation on the part of the
Federalists uphold the policy of assuming so great
a responsibility in the support of so unpromising a
character? The negative is so manifest that, had
I not been assured of the contrary, I should have
thought it impossible that assent to it would have
been attended with a moment's hesitation.

Alas! when will men consult their reason rather
than their passions? Whatever they may imagine,
the desire of mortifying the adverse party must be
the chief spring of the disposition to prefer Mr. Burr.
This disposition reminds me of the conduct of the
Dutch moneyed men, who, from their hatred of the
old aristocracy, favored the admission of the French
into Holland, to overturn every thing.

Adieu to the Federal Troy, if they once introduce
this Grecian horse into their citadel.

Trust me, my dear friend, you cannot render a
greater service to your country than to resist this
project. Far better will it be to endeavor to obtain
from Jefferson assurances on some cardinal points:

I St. The preservation of the actual fiscal system.

„s

Private Correspondence 397

2d. Adherence to the neutral plan.

3d. The preservation and gradual increase of the
navy.

4th. The continuance of our friends in the offices
they fill, except in the great departments, in v^hich
he ought to be left free.

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

New York, Dec. 22, 1800.

I entirely agree with you, my dear sir, that, in the
event of Jefferson and Burr coming to the House of
Representatives, the former is to be preferred. The
appointment of Burr as President would disgrace
our country abroad. No agreement with him could
be relied upon. His private circumstances render
disorder a necessary resource. His public principles
offer no obstacle. His ambition aims at nothing
short of permanent power and wealth in his own \\ }i\'f'^
person. For heaven's sake, let not the federal party
be responsible for the elevation of this man! / J/ ^"^ -^'^I-a

The convention with France is just such an issue
as was to have been expected. It plays into the
hands of France, by the precedent of those prin-
ciples of navigation which she is at this moment de-
sirous of making the basis of a league of the northern
powers against England. This feature will be pe-
culiarly disagreeable to the latter, and, as it relates
to the general politics of the world, is a make-weight
in the wrong scale.

The stipulation about privateers and prizes is of

398 Alexander Hamilton

questionable propriety. If third powers are en-
titled to the benefit of annulling our treaties with
France, it is a plain violation of our compact with
Great Britain.

But I rather think it the better opinion that, pend-
ing the differences which produced that measure, it
is a matter purely between France and ourselves, by
which no third power has a right to profit, and that
even the status quo would not have been a violation
of our engagements with Great Britain.

Thus situated, I am of opinion the treaty must be
ratified. The contrary condition would, I think, ut-
terly ruin the federal party and endanger our internal
tranquillity. Moreover, it is better to close the
thing where it is, than to leave it to a Jacobin to do
much worse.

This is a deliberately formed sentiment, and I hope
will accord with the conclusions of our friends. At
the same time, I wish it to be declared by our friends
in the Senate, that they think the treaty liable to
strong objections and pregnant with dangers to the
interests of this country, but having been negotiated,
they will not withhold their assent.

Reasons should be given.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS ^

New York, Dec. 24, 1800.

Dear Sir:

I w411 run the risk with you of giving countenance
to a charge lately brought against me, though it has

* At this time Senator from New York.

Private Correspondence 399

certainly had a very false direction. I mean that of
being fond of giving advice.

Several friends at Washington inform me that
there is likely to be much hesitation in the Senate
about ratifying the convention with France. I do
not wonder at it, and yet I should be sorry that it
should mature itself into a disagreement to the in-
strument. Having received its present form, I think
it should be ratified.

In my opinion, there is nothing in it contrary to j
our treaty with Great Britain. The annulling of our
former treaties with France was an act of reprisal in
consequence of hostile differences, of which no other
power had a right to benefit, and which, upon an ac-
commodation, might have been rescinded, even to
the restoration of the status quo. Great Britain is
now, in this respect, in a better situation than she
was when she made the treaty. She has, so far, no
good cause to complain.

There are, indeed, features which will not be
pleasant to the British cabinet, particularly the prin-
ciple that free ships shall make free goods, and that j
the flag of ships-of-war shall protect. As these are
points upon which France was endeavoring to form
hostile combinations against Great Britain, the giv-
ing place to them in the convention will have an un-
friendly countenance towards her and us, and is to
be regretted in the present moment. Yet we had a
right to make these stipulations, and as they may be
fairly supposed to be advantageous to us, they are
not in fact indications of enmity. They give no
real cause of umbrage, and, considering the general

400 Alexander Hamilton

interests of Great Britain and her particular situa-
tion, it does not seem probable that they will produce
on her part a hostile conduct.

As to the indemnification for spoliations, that was
rather to be wished than expected, while France is
laying the world under contribution. The people of
this country will not endure that a definitive rupture
with France shall be hazarded on this ground.

If this convention is not closed, the leaving of the
whole subject open will render it easier for the Jacobin
administration to make a worse thing.

On the whole, the least evil is to ratify. The con-
trary would finish the ruin of the federal party, and
endanger our internal tranquillity. It is better to
risk the dangers on the other hand, than on this side.

Another subject. Jefferson or Burr? the former
without all doubt. The latter, in my judgment, has
no principle, public or private; could be bound by
no agreement; will listen to no monitor but his am-
bition, and for this purpose will use the worst part
of the community as a ladder to climb to permanent
power, and an instrument to crush the better part.
He is bankrupt beyond redemption, except by the
resources that grow out of war and disorder, or by
a sale to a foreign power, or by great peculation.
War with Great Britain would be the immediate
instrument. He is sanguine enough to hope every
thing, daring enough to attempt every thing, wicked
enough to scruple nothing. From the elevation of
such a man may heaven preserve the country!

Let our situation be improved to obtain from Jef-
ferson assurances on certain points : the maintenance

o-?

Private Correspondence 401

of the present system, especially on the cardinal ar-
ticles of public credit — a navy, neutrality. Make
any discreet use you may think fit of this letter.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

New York, Dec. 26, 1800.

Dear Sir:

The post of yesterday gave me the pleasure of a
letter from you. I thank you for the communica-
tion. I trust that a letter which I wrote you the day
before the receipt of yours will have duly reached you,
as it contains some very free and confidential ob-
servations ending in two results.

I St. That the convention with France ought to
be ratified as the least of two evils.

2d. That on the same ground Jefferson ought to
be preferred to Burr.

I trust the Federalists will not finally be so mad
as to vote for the latter. I speak with an intimate
and accurate knowledge of character. His elevation ■' k ^s^ ^,
can only promote the purposes of the desperate and
profligate.

If there be a man in the world I ought to hate, it is
Jefferson. With Burr I have always been personally
well. But the public good must be paramount to
every private consideration.

My opinion may be freely used with such reserves
as you shall think discreet.

VOL. X.— 36.

Z^

402 Alexander Hamilton

TO JAMES A. BAYARD

New York, Dec. 27, 1800.

Dear Sir:

Several letters to myself and others from the city
, of Washington, excite in my mind extreme alarm on
' the subject of the future President. It seems nearly
ascertained that Jefferson and Burr will come into
the House of Representatives with equal votes, and
those letters express the probability that the federal
party may prefer the latter. In my opinion, a cir-
cumstance more ruinous to them, or more disastrous
to the country, could not happen.

This opinion is dictated by a long and close atten-
tion to the character of B., with the best opportuni-
ties of knowing it — an advantage of judging which,
few of our friends possess, and which ought to give
some weight to my opinion.

Be assured, my dear sir, that this man has no prin-
ciple, public nor private. As a politician, his sole
spring of action is an inordinate ambition ; as an in-
dividual, he is believed by friends as well as foes to
be without probity; and a voluptuary by system —
with habits of expense that can be satisfied by no
fair expedients. As to his talents, great manage-
ment and cunning are the predominant features ; he
is yet to give proofs of those solid abilities which
characterize the statesman. Daring and energy
must be allowed him; but these qualities, under the
direction of the worst passions, are certainly strong
objections, not recommendations. He is of a temper
to undertake the most hazardous enterprises, be-
cause he is sanguine enough to think nothing im-

Private Correspondence 403

practicable ; and of an ambition that will be content
with nothing less than permanent power in his own
hands. The maintenance of the existing institu-
tions will not suit him; because under them his
power will be too narrow and too precarious. Yet
the innovations he may attempt will not offer the
substitute of a system durable and safe, calculated
to give lasting prosperity, and to unite liberty with
strength. It will be the system of the day, sufficient ''
to serve his own turn, and not looking beyond him-
self. To execute this plan, as the good men of the
country cannot be relied upon, the worst will be used.
Let it not be imagined that the difficulties of execu-
tion will deter, or a calculation of interest restrain.
The truth is, that under forms of government like
ours, too much is practicable to men who will, with-
out scruple, avail themselves of the bad passions of
human nature. To a mian of this description, pos-
sessing the requisite talents, the acquisition of per-
manent power is not a chimera. I know that Mr.
Burr does not view it as such, and I am sure there
are no means too atrocious to be employed by him.
In debt, vastly beyond his means of payment, with
all the habits of excessive expense, he cannot be
satisfied with the regular emoluments of any office
of our government. Corrupt expedients will be to
him a necessary resource. Will any prudent man \
offer such a President to the temptations of foreign
gold? No engagement that can be made with him
can be depended upon ; while making it, he will laugh
in his sleeve at the credulity of those with whom he
makes it ; — and the first moment it suits his views to

r. ■^

404 Alexander Hamilton

break it, he will do so.' Let me add, that I could
scarcely name a discreet man of either party in our
State, who does not think Mr. Burr the most tmfit
man in the United States for the office of President.
Disgrace abroad, ruin at home, are the probable
fruits of his elevation. To contribute to the disap-
pointment and mortification of Mr. J., would be, on
my part, only to retaliate for unequivocal proofs of
enmity; but in a case like this, it would be base to
listen to personal considerations. In alluding to the
situation, I mean only to illustrate how strong must
be the motives which induced me to promote his
elevation in exclusion of another.

For heaven's sake, my dear sir, exert yourself to
the utmost to save our country from so great a
calamity. Let us not be responsible for the evils,
which in all probability will follow the preference . All
calculations that may lead to it must prove fallacious.

TO JOHN RUTLEDGE

December, 1800.

As long as the federal party pursue their high
ground of integrity and principle, I shall not despair

^ A recent incident will give you an idea of his views as to foreign
politics. I dined with him lately. His toasts were : "The French Re-
public," "The Commissioners who Negotiated the Convention," " Buo-

"^ naparte," "The Marquis La Fayette." His doctrines, that it would be

the interest of this country to permit the indiscriminate sale of prizes
by the belligerent powers; and the building and equipment of vessels
— a project amounting to nothing more nor less (with the semblance of
equality) than to turn all our naval resources into the channel of France,
and compel Great Britain to war. Indeed, Mr. Burr must have war,
as the instrument of his ambition and cupidity. The peculiarity of

■"^ the occasion will excuse my mentioning in confidence the occurrences of

a private table.

Private Correspondence 405

of the public weal ; but if they quit it and descend to
be willing instruments of the elevation of the most
unfit and most dangerous man of the community to
the highest station in the government, I shall no
longer see any anchor for the hopes of good men. I
shall at once anticipate all the evils that a daring and
unprincipled ambition, wielding the lever of Jacob-
inism, can bring upon an infatuated country. 'T is
not to the chapter of accidents that we ought to
trust the government, peace, and happiness of our
country. 'T is enough for us to know that Mr. Burr
is one of the most unprincipled men in the United
States, to determine us to decline being responsible
for the precarious issues of his calculations of inter-
est. You cannot, in my opinion, render a greater
service to your country than by exerting your in-
fluence to counteract the impolitic and impure idea
of raising Mr. Burr to the chief magistracy.'

TO JAMES ROSS *

I80I.

Letters which myself and others have received
from Washington give me much alarm at the pro-
spect that Mr. Burr may be supported by the Feder-
alists in preference to Mr. Jefferson. Be assured, my
dear sir, that this would be a fatal mistake. From

^Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vii., 445. General
John Rutledge, of South Carolina, to whom this letter is addressed,
was the son of the revolutionary patriot and statesman of the same
name. He was at this time Member of Congress from South Carolina.

2 James Ross, Senator from Pennsylvania, was one of the leaders of
the Federalists and a lawyer of distinguished ability.

4o6 Alexander Hamilton

a thorough knowledge of the characters, I can pro-
nounce with confidence that Mr. Burr is the last
man in the United States to be supported by the
Federalists.

First. It is an opinion firmly entertained by his
enemies and not disputed by his friends, that, as a
man, he is deficient in honesty. Some very sad
stories are related of him. That he is bankrupt for
a large deficit, is certain. Second. As a politician,
discerning men of both parties admit that he has but
one principle — to get power by any means, and to
keep it by all means. Third. Of an ambition too
irregular and inordinate to be content with institu-
tions that leave his power precarious, he is of too
bold and sanguine a temper to think any thing too
hazardous to be attempted, or too difficult to be ac-
complished. Fourth. As to talents, they are great
for management and intrigue — but he is yet to give
the first proofs that they are equal to the act of
governing well. Fifth. As to his theory, no man can
tell what it is. Institutions that would serve his own
purposes (such as the government of France of the
present day), not such as would promise lasting pro-
sperity and glory to the country, would be his prefer-
ence, because he cares only for himself, and nothing
for his country or glory. Sixth. Certain that his
irregular ambition cannot be supported by good men,
he will court and employ the worst men of all parties
as the most eligible instruments. Jacobinism in
its most pernicious form will scourge the country.
Seventh. As to foreign politics, war will be a neces-
sary means of power and wealth. The animosity to
Private Correspondence 407

the British will be the handle by which he will at-
tempt to wield the nation to that point. Within a
fortnight he has advocated positions, which, if acted
upon, would in six months place us in a state of war
with that power. From the elevation of such a man
may heaven preserve the country. Shotild it be by
the means of the Federalists, I should at once despair.
I should see no longer any thing upon which to rest
the hope of public or private prosperity.

No. Let the Federalists vote for Jefferson.

But, as they have much in their power, let them
improve the situation to obtain assurances from him :

1. The preservation of the actual system of
finance and public credit.

2. The support and gradual increase of the navy.

3. A bona fide neutrality towards belligerent
powers.

4. The preservation in office of our friends, ex-
cept in the great departments, in respect to which
and to future appointments he ought to be at liberty
to promote his friends.'

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

New York, Jan. 9, 1801.

I have lately, my dear sir, written you two letters.
As they contained some delicate topics, I shall be
glad to know that they got to hand.

It has occurred to me that perhaps the Federalists
may be disposed to play the game of preventing an
election, and leaving the executive power in the

^ Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vii., 445. ' p

jri

4o8 Alexander Hamilton

hands of a future President of the Senate. This, if
it could succeed, would be, for obvious reasons, a
most dangerous and unbecoming policy. But it is
well it should be understood that it cannot succeed.
The Anti-federalists, as a body, prefer Jefferson, but
among them are many who will be better suited by
the dashing, projecting spirit of Burr, and who, after
doing what they will suppose to be saving appear-
ances, they will go over to Mr. Burr. Edward Liv-
ingston has declared among his friends that his first
jT^^^ ballot will be for Jefferson; his second for Burr.
^,^1^^^ The present is a crisis which demands the exertions

of men who have an interest in public order.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

New York, Jan. lo, 1801.

I thank you, my dear sir, for your letter of the 5th
instant. The scruples you express about the rati-
fication of the convention are very respectable. No
well-informed man can doubt that it is an exception-
able instrument, but I continue of the opinion that
it is best, upon the whole, to ratify it unconditionally.

It does not appear to me that, on fair construction,
the existence of the old treaties is recognized, though
a right of mutual indemnities as to the past is ad-
mitted. But inasmuch as it is declared that they
shall hereafter have no effect until a future agree-
ment, this appears to me to amount to the consent
of France that they shall become inoperative and
null, unless they shall be revived by the consent of

Private Correspondence 409

the United States. So far I think that some thing
is gained. For the right of one party to annul a
treaty is a Htigious right, never consummated till the
other party waives its opposition. This is now in
substance done by France. And, in my opinion, to
have advanced so far is a matter of considerable
importance.

The indemnification for spoliation is, I admit, vir-
tually relinquished as the price of the waiver of the
treaties; but considering our situation, and the im-
mense and growing power of France, that price is not
too great.

Further, there are such potent obstacles in the
nature of things to the obtaining of effectual in-
demnification, that it is very well to leave it to the
chapter of accidents.

The restoration of ships-of-war is an unpleasant,
and, I do not deny, rather a humiliating thing.

But as it is in form reciprocal, it does not seem
to me that unequivocal species of dishonor which
ought to induce us to run great risks. Our conduct
heretofore has gone on the ground that, though we
ought not to submit to unequivocal disgrace, yet we
ought not to be too susceptible or overcurious and
nice. In this spirit we have borne a great deal,
sometimes too much, from all the belligerents. Cir-
cumstances do not now invite to a different course.
Our rapid progress to strength will, erelong, encour-
age to and warrant higher pretensions.

You seem to have gotten over the difficulty of
the supposed collision between the convention and
our treaty with Britain. You already know that this

4 TO Alexander Hamilton

accords with my opinion. Yet it seems to me the
most thorny point, as it draws into question our
faith towards a third power.

This gotten over, there is not, in my apprehension,
any remaining obstacle to a full ratification which
may not be overcome.

The limitation of the treaty as to time is doubtless
desirable, but we may be sure it will not be eternal
in fact. Perpetual peace will not exist. A war cuts
the knot, and leaves us free to renew or not, to renew
absolutely, or with qualifications.

With this view of the subject, I do not consider
the objections to a simple ratification to be strong
enough to countervail the dangers of a qualified one,
which certainly will leave it in the option of the other
party to recede.

It is possible that, in the pride of success, our
backwardness to ratify may be the pretext of a
rupture to punish the presumption. Under existing
circumstances, such an event would be disastrous,
if not for the evils which the arms of France might
inflict, yet for the hazard of internal schisms and dis-
cord. The mania for France has in a great degree
revived in our country, and the party which should
invite a rupture would be likely to be ruined.

Perhaps, with the administration we are going to
have, there may be less danger of rupture than with
one of a different cast ; yet not much reliance can be
placed on this circumstance, and there is another
side to the question which deserves attention.

If the present convention be ratified, our relations
to France will have received a precise shape. To

Private Correspondence 411

take up the subject anew and mould it into a shape
better according with Jacobin projects will not be
as easy as finding the whole business open to give it
that shape. I think it politic, therefore, to close as
far as we can.

Again, it will be of consequence to the federal
cause in future to be able to say the federal adminis-
tration steered the vessel through all the storms r'^'^,^^
raised by the contentions of Europe into a peaceful -'Z' j^ ^
and safe port. This cannot be said if the contest
with France continues open.

Inclosed you have some recent intelligence which
seems to strengthen the argument for a simple rati-
fication. Great Britain stands on a precipice. The
misfortune for her is that there are manifest symp-
toms of a depreciated and depreciating paper cur-
rency. This may cut deep.

The result is that good understanding with the
United States is more than ever necessary to Great
Britain. She will not lightly take umbrage while
France is in a position to ride a high horse. These
facts cannot prudently be excluded from the calcu-
lation.

So our eastern friends want to join the armed neu-
trality and make war upon Britain. I infer this
from their mad propensity to make Burr President.
If Jefferson has prejudices leading to that result, he ^
has defects of character to keep him back. Burr,
with the same propensities, will find the thing neces-
sary to his projects, and will dare to hazard all con-
sequences. They may as well think to bind a giant
by a cobweb as his ambition by promises.

412 Alexander Hamilton

TO JAMES A. BAYARD

New York, Jan. i6, 1801.

I was glad to find, my dear sir, by your letter that
you had not yet determined to go with the current
of the federal party in the support of Mr. Burr, and
that you were resolved to hold yourself disengaged
till the moment of final decision. Your resolution
to separate yourself in this instance from the federal
party, if your conviction shall be strong of the un-
fitness of Mr. Burr, is certainly laudable. So much
does it coincide with my ideas, that if the party shall,
by supporting Mr. Burr as President, adopt him for
their official chief, I shall be obliged to consider my-
self as an isolated man. It will be impossible for me
to reconcile with my notions of honor or policy the
continuing to be of a party which, according to
my apprehension, will have degraded itself and the
country.

I am sure, nevertheless, that the motives of many
will be good, and I shall never cease to esteem the in-
dividuals, though I shall deplore a step which, I fear,
experience will show to be a very fatal one. Among
the letters which I receive assigning the reasons pro
> and con for preferring Burr to J., I observe no small
exaggeration to the prejudice of the latter, and
some things taken for granted as to the former, which
are at least questionable. Perhaps myself the first,
at some expense of popularity, to unfold the true
character of Jefferson, it is too late for me to become
his apologist ; nor can I have any disposition to do it.

I admit that his politics are tinctured with fanatic-

Private Correspondence 413 v' -

ism; that he is too much in earnest in his demo-
cracy ; that he has been a mischievous enemy to the
principal measures of our past administration; that
he is crafty and persevering in his objects; that he is
not scrupulous about the means of success, nor very
mindful of truth, and that he is a contemptible hypo-
crite. But it is not true, as is alleged, that he is an
enemy to the power of the Executive, or that he is
for confounding all the powers in the House of Re-
presentatives. It is a fact which I have frequently
mentioned, that, while we were in the administra-
tion together, he was generally for a large construc-
tion of the Executive authority and not backward to
act upon it in cases which coincided with his views.
Let it be added that in his theoretic ideas he has
considered as improper the participations of the Sen-
ate in the Executive authority. I have more than
once made the reflection that, viewing himself as the \y ^^
reversioner, he was solicitous to come into the pos-
session of a good estate. Nor is it true that Jeffer-
son is zealot enough to do any thing in pursuance of
his principles which will contravene his popularity or
his interest. He is as likely as any man I know to
temporize — to calculate what will be likely to pro-
mote his own reputation and advantage; and the
probable result of such a temper is the preservation
of systems, though originally opposed, which, being
once established, could not be overturned without
danger to the person who did it. To my mind a
true estimate of Mr. Jefferson's character war-
rants the expectation of a temporizing rather than
a violent system. That Jefferson has manifested a

4H Alexander Hamilton

culpable predilection for France is certainly true ; but
I think it a question whether it did not proceed quite
as much from her popularity among us as from senti-
ment, and, in proportion as that popularity is di-
minished, his zeal will cool. Add to this that there is
no fair reason to suppose him capable of being cor-
rupted, which is a security that he will not go be-
yond certain limits. It is not at all improbable that
under the change of circumstances Jefferson's Gal-
licism has considerably abated.

As to Burr these things are admitted, and indeed
cannot be denied, that he is a man of extreme and
irregular ambition; that he is selfish to a degree
which excludes all social affections, and that he is
decidedly profligate. But it is said (i) that he is
/ artful and dexter otts to accomplish his ends; that
he holds no pernicious theories, but is a mere matter-
of -fact man; that his very selfishness ' is a guard
against mischievous foreign predilections; that
his local situation has enabled him to appreciate the
utility of our commercial and fiscal systems, and the
same quality of selfishness will lead him to support
and invigorate them; that he is now disliked by
the Jacobins; that his elevation will be a mortal
stab to them, breed an invincible hatred to him, and
compel him to lead on the Federalists; that
Burr's ambition will be checked by his good sense,
by the manifest impossibility of succeeding in any
scheme of usurpation, and that, if attempted, there
is nothing to fear from the attempt. These topics
are, in my judgment, more plausible than solid. As

^ It is always very dangerous to look at the vices of men for good.

Private Correspondence 415

to the first point, the fact must be admitted, but
those qualities are objections rather than recom-
mendations, when they are under the direction of
bad principles. As to the second point, too much is
taken for granted. If Burr's conversation is to be
credited, he is not very far from being a visionary.
He has quoted to me Connecticut as an example of
the success of the democratic theory, and as au-
thority, I have serious doubts whether it was not a
good one. It is ascertained in some instances that
he has talked perfect Godwinism. I have myself
heard him speak with applause of the French sys-
tem, as unshackling the mind and leaving it to its
natural energies, and I have been present when he
has contended against banking systems ' with earn-
estness and with the same arguments that Jefferson
would use.

The truth is, that Burr is a man of a very subtle
imagination, and a mind of this make is rarely free
from ingenious whimsies. Yet I admit that he has
no fixed theory, and that his peculiar notions will
easily give way to his interest. But is it a recom-
mendation to have no theory? Can that man be a
systematic or able statesman who has none? I be-
lieve not. No general principles will hardly work
much better than erroneous ones.

As to the third point, it is certain that Burr,
generally speaking, has been as warm a partisan of
France as Jefferson; that he has, in some instances,

^ Yet he has lately, by a trick, established a hank — a perfect monster
in its principles, but a very convenient instrument of profit and i»-
fluence.

) no ^

4i6 Alexander Hamilton

shown himself to be so with passion. But if it was
from calculation, who will say that his calculations
will not continue him so? His selfishness,' so far
from being an obstacle, may be a prompter. If cor-
rupt as well as selfish, he may be a partisan for gain.
If ambitious as well as selfish, he may be a partisan
for the sake of aid to his views. No man has traf-
ficked more than he in the floating passions of the
multitude. Hatred to Great Britain and attach-
ment to France, in the public mind, will naturally
lead a man of his selfishness, attached to place and
power, to favor France and oppose Great Britain.
The Gallicism of many of our patriots is to be thus
resolved, and, in my opinion, it is morally certain
that Burr will continue to be influenced by this
calculation.

As to the fourth point, the instance I have cited
with respect to banks, proves that the argument is
not to be relied on. If there was much in it, why
does Chancellor Livingston maintain that we ought
not to cultivate navigation, but ought to let foreign-
ers be our carriers? France is of the opinion too,
and Burr, for some reason or other, will be very apt
to be of the opinion of France.

As to the fifth point, nothing can be more falla-
cious. It is demonstrated by recent facts ^ that
Burr is solicitous to keep upon anti-federal ground, to
avoid compromitting himself by any engagements,^
with the Federalists. With or without such engage-

^ Unprincipled selfishness is more apt to seek rapid gain in disorderly
practices than slow advantages from orderly systems.

2 My letter to Mr. Morris states some of them,

3 He trusts to their prejudices and hopes for supporb.

Private Correspondence 417

ments, he will easily persuade his former friends that
he does stand on that ground, and after their first
resentment they will be glad to rally under him. In
the meantime he will take care not to disoblige them,
and he will always court those among them who are
best fitted for tools. He will never choose to lean
on good men, because he knows that they will never
support his bad projects; but instead of this he will
endeavor to disorganize both parties, and to form
out of them a third, composed of men fitted by their
characters to be conspirators and instruments of
such projects.

That this will be his future conduct may be in-
ferred from his past plan, and from the admitted
quality of irregular ambition. Let it be remembered
that Mr. Burr has never appeared solicitous for fame,
and that great ambition, unchecked by principle or
the love of glory, is an imruly tyrant, which never
can keep long in a course which good men will
approve. As to the last point, the proposition is
against the experience of all times. Ambition with-
out principle never was long under the guidance of
good sense. Besides that, really, the force of Mr.
Burr's understanding is much overrated. He is far
more cunning than wise, far more dextrous than able.

{Very, very confidential . — In my opinion he is in-
ferior in real ability to Jefferson. There are also
facts against the supposition. It is past all doubt
that he has blamed me for not having improved the
situation I once was in to change the government. !
That when answered that this could not have been
done without guilt, he replied, "Les grandes ames

VOL. X.— 27. I

41 8 Alexander Hamilton

se soucient pen des petits moratix "; that when told
the thing was never practicable from the genius and
situation of the country, he answered, '' That depends
on the estimate we form of the human passions, and
of the means of influencing them." Does this prove
that Mr. Burr would consider a scheme of usurpation
as visionary?)

The truth is, with great apparent coldness he is the
most sanguine man in the world. He thinks every
thing possible to adventure and perseverance, and,
though I believe he will fail, I think it almost certain
he will attempt usurpation, and the attempt will in-
volve great mischief. But there is one point of view
which seems to me decisive. If the Anti-federalists
who prevailed in the election are left to take their
own man, they remain responsible, and the Federal-
ists remain free, united, and without stain, in a situa-
tion to resist, with effect, pernicious measures. If
the Federalists substitute Burr, they adopt him and
become answerable for him. Whatever may be the
theory of the case abroad and at home (for so from
the beginning will be taught), Mr. Burr will become
in fact the man of our party; and if he acts ill, we
must share in the blame and disgrace. By adopting
him we do all we can to reconcile the minds of the
Federalists to him, and we prepare them for the
effectual operation of his arts. He will doubtless
gain many of them, and the Federalists will become
a disorganized and contemptible party. Can there
be any serious question between the policy of leaving
the Anti-federalists to be answerable for the eleva-
tion of an exceptionable man, and that of adopting

Private Correspondence 419

ourselves and becoming answerable for a man who,
on all hands, is acknowledged to be a complete
Catiline? 'T is enough to state the question to in-
dicate the answer, if reason, not passion, presides in
the decision.

You may communicate this, and my former letter,
to discreet and confidential friends.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

New York, January, 1801.

Dear Sir:

I hasten to give you some information which may
be useful. I know as a fact that overtures have
been made by leading individuals of the federal
party to Mr. Burr, who declines to give any assur-
ances respecting his future intentions and conduct,
saying that to do it might injure him with his friends,
and prevent their co-operation ; that all ought to be
inferred from the necessity of his future situation, as
it regarded the disappointment and animosity of the
Anti-federalists; that the Federalists, relying upon
this, might proceed in the certainty that, upon a
second ballot. New York and Tennessee would join
him. It is likewise ascertained that he perfectly
understands himself with Edward Livingston, who
will be his agent at the seat of government.

Thus you see that Mr. Burr is resolved to pre-
serve himself in a situation to adhere to his former
friends, engagements, and projects, and to use the
Federalists as tools of his aggrandizement.

420 Alexander Hamilton

The hope that by his election he will be separated
from the Anti-federalists, is a perfect farce.

He will satisfy them that he has kept himself free
to continue his relations with them, and as many of
them are secretly attached to him, they will all be
speedily induced to rally under his standard, to
which he will add the unprincipled of our party, and
he will laugh at the rest.

It is a fact that Mr. Burr is now in frequent and
close conference with a Frenchman, who is suspected
of being an agent of the French Government, and it
is not to be doubted that he will be the firm ally of
Buonaparte.

You are at liberty to show this letter to such friends
as you think fit, especially Mr. Bayard, of Delaware,
in whose principles and soimd sense I have much
confidence.

Depend upon it, men never played a more foolish
game than will do the Federalists if they support
Burr.

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

Albany, Jan. 21, 1801.

Dear Sir:

Being in a hurry to leave New York for this place,
I compressed, in a letter to Bayard, some observa-
tions which, had I time, I should have put in a reply
to your last. I requested him to communicate it to
you, and I beg of you, as you love your country,
your friends, and yourself, to reconsider dispas-
sionately the opinion you have expressed in favor
of Burr.

Private Correspondence 421

I never was so much mistaken as I shall be if our
friends, in the event of their success, do not rue the
preference they will give to that Catiline. Adieu. '^-

TO MRS. HAMILTON

On the Road to Albany, Feb., 1801.

The roads are too bad for you to venture in your
carriage, if you can possibly avoid it. Don't forget
to visit the Grange. From what I saw there, it is
very important the drains should be better regulated.
Leave, in particular charge of Philip, what you can-
not yourself accomplish.

TO MRS. HAMILTON

February 19, 1801.

I arrived here, my beloved, about five this after-
noon. I ought now to be much further advanced.
But somehow ''Riddle'' sprained the ankle of one
of his hind legs, which very much retarded my pro-
gress to-day. By care and indulgence, he is much
better this evening. I have travelled comfortably,
and my health is better. Wife, children, and hobby
are the only things upon which I have permitted my
thoughts to run. As often as I write, you may ex-
pect to hear some thing of the latter. Don't lose
any opportunity which may offer of ploughing up
the new garden spot, and let the wagon make a tour

^i

422 Alexander Hamilton

of the ground lately purchased. When it is too cold
to go on with grubbing, our men may be employed in
cutting and clearing away the underbrush in the
grove and the other woods; only let the centre of
the principal wood in the line of the different rocks
remain rough and wild.

(Again he writes) : I am less and less pleased with
the prospect of so long a separation from my beloved
family, and you may depend shall shorten it as much
as possible. " Dumphy ' ' had planted the tulip trees
in a row along the outer fence of the garden in the
road, and was collecting some hemlock trees to plant
between them. I desired him to place these in a
row along the inner fence. But, having attended to
them in my route, I shall be glad, if white pines are
not conveniently to be had, that besides those along
the inner fence, there may be one hemlock between
every two of the tulip trees along the outer fence.

TO MRS. HAMILTON

POUGHKEEPSIE, Feb. 20, 180I.

I am in much better health than spirits. The
Swiss malady grows upon me very fast. In other
words, I am more and more homesick. This, added
to some other circumstances that do not give me
pleasure at the present moment, makes me rather
heavy-hearted. But we must make the best of
those ills that cannot be avoided. The occupation
I shall have at Albany will divert my mind from

Private Correspondence 423

painful reflections; and a speedy return to my dear
family will bring me a cure. Write me often, and
receive every wish that is due to the best of women.
Kiss my children for me. Adieu.'

TO

Albany, Feb. 22, 1801.

Dear Sir:

After my ill success hitherto, I ought, perhaps, in
prudence, to say nothing further on the subject.
But, situated as things now are, I certainly have no
advice to give. Yet I may, without impropriety,
communicate a fact ; it is this :

Colonel Burr is taking an active personal part in
favor of Mr. Clinton against Mr. Rensselaer, as gov-
ernor of this State. I have, upon my honor, direct
and indubitable evidence, that between two and
three weeks past, he wrote a very urgent letter to
Oliver Phelps, of the western part of this State, to
induce his exertions in favor of Clinton. Is not this
an unequivocal confirmation of what I predicted
that he will, in every event, continue to play the
Jacobin game? Can any thing else explain his con-
duct at such a moment, and under such circum-
stances? I might add several other things to prove
that he is resolved to adhere to and cultivate his old
party, who lately, more than ever, have shown the
cloven foot of rank Jacobinism,

^ These three letters to Mrs. Hamilton are reprinted from the History
of the Republic, vii., 488 and ff.

424 Alexander Hamilton

TO DR. BENJAMIN RUSH '

New York, Feb, 12, 1802.

Dear Sir:

I felt all the weight of the obligation which I owed
to you and your amiable family for the tender con-
cern they manifested in an event beyond comparison
the most afflicting of my life, but I was obliged to
wait for a moment of greater calm to express my
sense of the kindness.

My loss is indeed great. The brightest as well as
the eldest hope of my family has been taken from me.
You estimated him rightly. He was a fine youth.
But why should I repine ? It was the will of heaven,
and he is now out of the reach of the seductions and
calamities of a world full of folly, fiill of vice, full of
danger — of least value in proportion as it is best
known. I firmly trust, also, that he has safely
reached the haven of eternal repose and felicity.

You will easily imagine that every memorial of
the goodness of his heart must be precious to me.
You allude to one recorded in a letter to your son.
If no special reasons forbid it, I should be very glad
to have a copy of that letter.

Mrs. Hamilton, who has drunk deeply of the cup
of sorrow, joins me in affectionate thanks to Mrs.
Rush and yourself; our wishes for your happiness
will be unceasing.

' The distinguished physician and patriot of Philadelphia. The
letter refers to the death of Hamilton's eldest son, Philip, who was
killed in a duel arising from a political quarrel.

Private Correspondence 425

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

New York, Feb. 27, i8oa.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 2 2d is the third favor I am in-
debted to you since you left New York.

Your frankness in giving me your opinion as to the
expediency of an application of our bar to Congress,
obliged me. But you know we are not readily per-
suaded to think we have been wrong. Were the
matter to be done over, I should pursue the same
course. I did not believe the measure would be use-
ful as a preventive, and for the people an expres-
sion of an opinion by letter would be as good as a
memorial.

It appeared to be best, because it saved our deli-
cacy, and because in the abstract, I am not over fond
of the precedent of the bar addressing Congress.
But I did what I thought likely to do more good. I
induced the Chamber of Commerce to send a me-
morial. As to the rest, I should be a very unhappy
man, if I left my tranquillity at the mercy of the
misinterpretations which friends as well as foes are
fond of giving to miy conduct.

Mine is an odd destiny. Perhaps no man in the
United States has sacrificed or done more for the
present Constitution than myself; and contrary to
all my anticipations of its fate, as you know from ^ 5^^

the very beginning, I am still laboring to prop the
frail and worthless fabric. Yet I have the murmurs
of its friends no less than the curses of its foes
for my reward. What can I do better than with-
draw from the scene? Every day proves to me

<1l\\

s

^^■''

426 Alexander Hamilton
" more and more, that this American world was not

made for me.

The suggestions with which you close your letter
suppose a much sounder state of the public mind
than at present exists. Attempts to make a show
of a general popular dislike of the pending measures
of the government, would only serve to manifest the
direct reverse. Impressions are indeed making, but
as yet within a very narrow sphere.

The time may erelong arrive when the minds of
men will be prepared to make an effort to recover the
Constitution, but the many cannot now be brought
to make a stand for its preservation. We must
wait a while.

I have read your speeches with great pleasure.
They are truly worthy of you. Your real friends
had many sources of satisfaction on account of them.
A The conspiracy of dulness was at work. It chose to
misinterpret your moderation in certain transactions
of a personal reference.

A public energetic display of your talents and prin-
ciples was requisite to silence the cavillers. It is
now done. You, friend Morris, are by birth sl native
of this country, but by genius an exotic. You mis-
take, if you fancy that you are more of a favorite
than myself, or that you are in any sort upon a
theatre suited to you.

Private Correspondence 427

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

New York, March 4, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

You have seen certain resolutions unanimously
pass our Legislature for amending the Constitution;
ist, by designating separately the candidates for
President and Vice-President ; 2d, by having electors
chosen by the people in districts under the direction \
of the national Legislature. '

After mature reflection, I was thoroughly con-
firmed in my full impression, that it is true federal j«
policy to promote the adoption of these amendments.

Of the first, not only because it is in itself right,
that the people should know whom they are choosing,
and because the present mode gives all possible scope
to intrigue, and is dangerous (as we have seen) to
the public tranquillity ; but because in every thing
which gives opportunity for juggling arts, our ad-
versaries will nine times out of ten excel us.

Of the second, because it removes thus far the in- .
tervention of the State governments, and strengthens X^.-^
the connection between the Federal head and the \
people, and because it diminishes the means of party
combination, in which also, the burning zeal of our
opponents will be generally an overmatch for our
temperate flame.

I shall be very happy that our friends may think
with me, and that no temporary motive may induce
them to let slip the precious occasion in which per-
sonal motives induce the other party to forget their
true policy.

We are told here, that at the close of your birth-

428 Alexander Hamilton

day feast, a strange apparition, which was taken
for the Vice-President, appeared among you, and
toasted " the union of all honest men." I often hear
at the comer of the streets important federal secrets,
of which I am ignorant. This may be one.

If the story be true, 't is a good thing, if we use
it well. As an instrument, the person will be an
auxiliary of some value; as a chief, he will disgrace
and destroy the party.

I suspect, however, the folly of the mass will make
him the latter, and from the moment it shall appear
that this is the plan, it may be depended upon much
more will be lost than gained. I know of no more
important character, who has a less founded interest
than the man in question. His talents may do well
enough for a particular plot, but they are ill suited to
a great and wise drama. But what has wisdom to
do with weak men? Adieu.

TO GENERAL CHARLES COTES WORTH PINCKNEY

March 15, 1802.

You will probably have learned before this reaches
you that the act of last session for the better organi-
zation of the Judiciary Department has been re-
pealed, and I take it for granted that you will, with
me, view this measure as a vital blow to the Con-
stitution. In my opinion it demands a systematic
and persevering effort by all constitutional means to
produce a revocation of the precedent, and to re-
store the Constitution. For this purpose I deem it

Private Correspondence 429

essential that there should be, without delay, a
meeting and conference of a small number of lead-
ing Federalists from different States. Unless there
shall be a plan of conduct proceeding from such a
source, our measures will be disjointed, discordant,
and of course ineffectual. There is also a further
danger which may attend the want of a plan capable
of fixing opinions and determining objects. There
are among us incorrect men with very incorrect
views, which may lead to combinations and projects
injurious to us as a party and very detrimental to
the country. These considerations have determined
me to make an attempt to bring about such a meet-
ing. And it has occurred that the first Monday of
May next, at the city of Washington, may be a good
time and place. A general meeting of the Society
of the Cincinnati is to be then and there held. I
have likewise taken the liberty to request the attend-
ance of Governor Davie, of North Carolina. In the
event of your concurring in sentiment with me, it
will be expedient for you to second my invitation to
him.*

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

New York, April 6, 1802.

Amidst the himiiliating circumstances which at-
tend our country, all the soimd part of the com-
munity must find cause of triumph in the brilliant
display of talents which have been employed, though
without success, in resisting the follies of an in-

^ Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vii., 564.

I

430 Alexander Hamilton

fatuated administration; and your personal friends
will not have much reason for mortification on ac-
count of the part you have performed in the interest-
ing scene. But, my dear sir, we must not content
ourselves with a temporary effort to oppose the ap-
proach of evil. We must derive instruction from
the experience before us; and learning to form a
just estimate of things to which we have been at-
tached, there must be a systematic and persevering
endeavor to establish the fortune of a great empire
on foundations much firmer than have yet been de-
vised. What will signify a vibration of power if it
cannot be used with confidence or energy, and must
be again quickly restored to hands which will pros-
trate much faster than we shall be able to rear under
'}^ so frail a system? Nothing will be done until the

'<'^' structure of our national edifice shall be such as

naturally to control eccentric passions and views,
and to keep in check demagogues and knaves in the
disguise of patriots. Yet I fear a different reasoning
will prevail, and an eagerness to recover lost power
will betray us into expedients which will be injurious
to the country and disgraceful and ruinous to our-
'tz\ selves. What meant the apparition and the toast
which made part of the after-piece of the birthday
festival? Is it possible that some new intrigue is
V^ about to link the Federalists with a man who can

never be anything else than the bane of a good cause ?
I dread more from this than from all the contrivances
of the bloated and senseless junto of Virginia.

The Federalists and Anti-federalists of this State
I united in certain amendments to the Constitution

Private Correspondence 431

now before your House, having for objects, ist, to
discriminate the candidates for the Presidency and
Vice-Presidency; 2d, to have the electors of these
officers chosen by the people, in districts, under the
direction of Congress. Both these appear to me
points of importance in true federal calculation.
Surely the scene of last session ought to teach us the
intrinsic demerits of the existing plan. It proved
to us how possible it is for a man in whom no party
had confidence, and who deserved the confidence of
none, by mere intrigue and accident, to acquire the
first place in the government of our nation; and it
also proves to us how^ serious a danger of convulsion
and disorder is incident to the plan. On this point
things have come to my knowledge, improper for a
letter, which would astonish you. Surely, we ought
by this time to have learnt that whatever multi-
plies the opportunities and means of cabal, is more
favorable to our adversaries than to us. They have
certainly the advantage in the game by greater zeal,
activity, and subtlety, and especially by an aban-
donment of principle. On all these accounts it is
our true policy to abridge the facilities to cabal as
much as possible in all our public institutions and
measures. As to the second of the amendments, it
has ever appeared to me as sound principle to let the
federal government rest, as much as possible, on the
shoulders of the people, and as little as possible on
those of the State Legislatures. The proposition
accords with this principle, and, in my view, it is
ftirther recommended by its tendency to exclude
combinations^ which, I am persuaded, in the general

432 Alexander Hamilton

and permanent course of things, will operate more
against than for us. Colonel Burr, without doubt,
will resist these amendments; and he may induce
some of our friends to play into his hands; but this
will be a very bad calculation, even admitting the
inadmissible idea that he ought to be adopted as a
chief of the federal party. We never can have him
fairly in our power, till we render his situation ab-
solutely hopeless with his old friends. While the
indiscriminate voting prevails, he will find it his in-
terest to play fast and loose, and to keep himself in
a state to be at the head of the anti-federal party.
If these hopes are cut off, he will immediately set
about forming a third party, of which he will be at
the head; and then, if we think it worth the while,
we can purchase him with his flying squadron.

These observations are, of course, hypothetical,
for, to my mind, the elevation of Mr. Burr, by fed-
eral means, to the chief magistracy of the United
States, will be the worst kind of political suicide.

TO JAMES A. BAYARD

New York, April, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

Your letter of the 12th instant has relieved me
from some apprehension. Yet it is well that it
should be perfectly understood by the truly sound
part of the Federalists that there do, in fact, exist
intrigues in good earnest between several individuals
not unimportant, of the federal party, and the per-
son in question, which are bottomed upon motives

Private Correspondence 433

and views by no means auspicious to the real welfare
of the country. I am glad to find that it is in con-
templation to adopt a plan of conduct. It is very
necessary ; and, to be useful, it must be efficient and
comprehensive in the means which it embraces, at
the same time that it must meditate none which are
not really constitutional and patriotic. I will com-
ply with your invitation by submitting some ideas
which, from time to time, have passed through my
mind. Nothing is more fallacious than to expect to
produce any valuable or permanent results in po-
litical projects by relying merely on the reason of 1
men. Men are rather reasoning than reasonable
animals, for the most part governed by the impulse
of passion. This is a truth well understood by our
adversaries, who have practised upon it with no
small benefit to their cause ; for at the very moment
they are eulogizing the reason of men, and professing
to appeal only to that faculty, they are courting the
strongest and most active passion of the human
heart, vanity! It is no less true, that the Federalists
seem not to have attended to the fact sufficiently;
and that they erred in relying so much on the recti-
tude and utility of their measures as to have ne-
glected the cultivation of popular favor, by fair and
justifiable expedients. The observation has been
repeatedly made by me to individuals with whom I
particularly conversed, and expedients suggested for
gaining good will, which were never adopted. Un-
luckily, however, for us, in the competition for the
passions of the people, our opponents have great ad-
vantages over us; for the plain reason that the

VOL. X.— 28.

434 Alexander Hamilton

vicious are far more active than the good passions;
and that, to win the former to our side, we must re-
nounce our principles and our objects, and unite
in corrupting public opinion till it becomes fit for
nothing but mischief. Yet, unless we can contrive
to take hold of, and carry along with us some strong
feelings of the mind, we shall in vain calculate upon
any substantial or durable results. Whatever plan
we may adopt, to be successful, must be founded on
the truth of this proposition. And perhaps it is not
very easy for us to give it full effects ; especially not
without some deviations from what, on other occa-
sions, we have maintained to be right. But in de-
termining upon the propriety of the deviations, we
must consider whether it be possible for us to suc-
ceed, without, in some degree, employing the weap-
ons which have been employed against us, and
whether the actual state and future prospect of
things be not such as to justify the reciprocal use of
them. I need not tell you that I do not mean to
countenance the imitation of things intrinsically un-
worthy, but only of such as may be denominated
irregular; such as, in a sound and stable order of
things, ought not to exist. Neither are you to infer
that any revolutionary result is contemplated. In
my opinion, the present Constitution is the standard
to which we are to cling. Under its banners, bona
fide, must we combat our political foes, rejecting all
changes but through the channel itself provides for
amendments. By these general views of the subject
have my reflections been guided. I now offer you
the outline of the plan which they have suggested.

Private Correspondence 435

Let an association be formed to be denominated
'* The Christian Constitutional Society." Its objects
to be :

I St. The support of the Christian religion.

2d. The support of the Constitution of the United
States.

Its organization

I St. A council, consisting of a president and
twelve members, of whom four and the president to
be a quorum.

2d. A sub-directing council in each State, con- \
sis ting of a vice-president and twelve members, of
whom four, with the vice-president, to be a quorum.

3d. As many societies in each State as local cir-
cumstances may permit to be formed by the sub-
directing council.

The meeting at Washington to nominate the
president and vice-president, together with four
members of each of the councils, who are to com-
plete their own numbers respectively.

Its means

I St. The diffusion of information. For this pur-
pose not only the newspapers, but pamphlets, must
be largely employed, and to do this a fund must be
created; five dollars annually, for eight years, to be '
contributed by each member who can really afford
it (taking care not to burthen the less able brethren),
may afford a competent fund for a competent term.
It is essential to be able to disseminate gratis useful '

%^

43^ Alexander Hamilton

publications. Wherever it can be done, and there
is a press, clubs should be formed, to meet once
a week, read the newspapers, and prepare essays,
paragraphs, etc.

2d. The use of all lawful means in concert to pro-
mote the election of fit men ; a lively correspondence
must be kept up between the different societies.

3d. The promoting of institutions of a charitable
and useful nature in the management of Federalists.
The populous cities ought particularly to be attended
to; perhaps it would be well to institute in such

i places — ist, societies for the relief of emigrants; 2d,
academies, each with one professor, for instructing
the different classes of mechanics in the principles
of mechanics and the elements of chemistry. The
cities have been employed by the Jacobins to give
an impulse to the country; and it is believed to be
an alarming fact that, while the question of presi-
dential election was pending in the House of Re-
presentatives, parties were organizing in several of
the cities in the event of there being no election, to
cut off the leading Federalists and seize the govern-
ment.

The foregoing to be the principal engine, and, in
addition, let measures be adopted to bring as soon as

.(' possible the repeal of the judiciary law before the
Supreme Court; afterwards, if not before, let as
many Legislatures as can be prevailed upon instruct
their Senators to endeavor to procure a repeal of the
repealing law. The body of New England, speaking
the same language, will give a powerful impulse. In
Congress our friends to propose little, to agree cor-

Private Correspondence 437

dially to all good measures, and to resist and expose
all bad. This is a general sketch of what has occurred
to me. It is at the service of my friends for so much
as it may be worth.

TO RUFUS KING

New York, June 3, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

I have been long very delinquent towards you as
a correspondent, and am to thank you that you have
not cast me off altogether as an irretrievable repro-
bate. But you know how to appreciate the causes,
and you have made a construction equally just and
indulgent.

In your last you ask my opinion about a matter
delicate and important, both in a public and in a
personal view. I shall give it with the frankness to
which you have a right, and I may add that the im-
pressions of your other friends, so far as they have
fallen under my observation, do not differ from my
own. While you were in the midst of a negotiation
interesting to your country, it was your duty to
keep your post. You have now accomplished the
object, and with the good fortune, not very common,
of having the universal plaudit. This done, it seems ^
to me most advisable that you return home. There I
is little probability that your continuance in your
present station will be productive of much positive
good. Nor are circumstances such as to give reason
to apprehend that the substitute for you, whoever
he may be, can do much harm. Your stay or return,
therefore, as it regards our transatlantic concerns,

43^ Alexander Hamilton

is probably not material, while your presence at
home may be useful in ways which it is not neces-
sary to particularize. Besides, it is questionable
whether you can long continue in the service of the
present administration consistently with what is
due, as well to your own character as to the common
cause. I am far from thinking that a man is bound
to quit a public office merely because the administra-
tion of the government may have changed hands.
But when those who have come into power are un-
disguised persecutors of the party to which he has
been attached, and study with ostentation to heap
upon it every indignity and injury, he ought not, in
my opinion, to permit himself to be made an excep-
tion, or to lend his talents to the support of such
characters. If, in addition to this, it be true that
the principles and plans of the men at the head of
affairs tend to the degradation of the government,
and to their own disgrace, it will hardly be possible
to be in any way connected with them without shar-
ing in the disrepute which they may be destined to
experience.

I wish I had time to give you a comprehensive and
particular map of our political situation; but more
than a rude outline is beyond my leisure, devoted as
I am more than ever to my professional pursuits.

You have seen the course of the administration
hitherto, especially during the last session of Con-
gress, and I am persuaded you will agree with me in
opinion, that it could hardly have been more dili-
gent in mischief. What, you will ask, has been and
is likely to be the effect on the public mind?

Private Correspondence 439

Our friends are sanguine that a great change for
the better has been wrought and is progressive. I
suppose good has been done — that the Federal-
ists have been reunited and cemented; have been
awakened, alarmed. Perhaps, too, there may be
some sensible and moderate men of the opposite
party who are beginning to doubt. But I as yet
discover no satisfactory symptoms of a revolution
of opinion in the mass — ''informe ingens cui lumen ,,,
ademptum." Nor do I look with much expecta- •
tion to any serious alteration until inconveniences
are extensively felt, or until time has produced a
disposition to coquet it with new lovers. Vibra-
tions of power, you are aware, are of the genius of
our government.

There is, however a circumstance which may ac-
celerate the fall of the present party. There is cer- ;,^
tainly a most serious schism between the chief and
his heir-apparent; a schism absolutely incurable, be-
cause founded in the hearts of both, in the rivalship
of an insatiable and unprincipled ambition. The
effects are already apparent, and are ripening into a
more bitter animosity between the partisans of the
two men, than ever existed between the Federalists
and Anti-federalists.

Unluckily, we are not as neutral to this quarrel as
we ought to be. You saw, however, how far our
friends in Congress went in polluting themselves
with the support of the second personage for the
Presidency. The cabal did not terminate there.
Several men of no inconsiderable importance among
us like the enterprising and adventurous character

440 Alexander Hamilton

of this man, and hope to soar with him to power.
Many more, through hatred to the chief, and through
an impatience to recover the reins, are linking them-
selves to the new chief almost without perceiving it,
and professing to have no other object than to make
use of him ; while he knows that he is making use of
them. What this may end in, it is difficult to per-
ceive.

Of one thing only I am sure, that in no event will
I be directly or indirectly implicated in a responsi-
bility for the elevation or support of either of two
men who, in different senses, are in my eyes equally
unworthy of the confidence of intelligent or honest
men.

Truly, my dear sir, the prospects of our country
are not brilliant. The mass is far from sound. At
headquarters a most visionary theory presides. De-
pend upon it, this is the fact to a great extreme. No
army, no navy, no active commerce; national de-
fence, not by arms, but by embargoes, prohibitions
of trade, etc. ; as little government as possible within ;
— these are the pernicious dreams which, as far and
as fast as possible, will be attempted to be realized.
Mr. Jefferson is distressed at the codfish having lat-
terly emigrated to the southern coast, lest the people
there should be tempted to catch them, and com-
merce, of which we have already too much, receive
an accession. Be assured this is no pleasantry, but
a very sober anecdote.

Among Federalists old errors are not cured.
They also continue to dream, though not quite so
preposterously as their opponents. All will be very

Private Correspondence 441

well (say they) when the power once gets back into
federal hands. The people, convinced by experience
of their error, will repose a permanent confidence in
good men. Risum teneatis.

TO THE EDITOR OF THE "EVENING POST "

New York, Aug. lo, 1802.

Sir:

Finding that a story, long since propagated, under
circumstances which it was expected would soon con-
sign it to oblivion (and by which I have been com-
plimented at the expense of Generals Washington
and Lafayette), has of late been revived, and has
acquired a degree of importance by being repeated
in different publications, as well in Europe as Amer-
ica, it becomes a duty to counteract its currency and
influence by an explicit disavowal. The story im-
ports in substance, that General Lafayette, with the
approbation or connivance of General Washington,
ordered me, as the officer who was to command
the attack on a British redoubt, in the course of the
siege of York Town, to put to death all those of the
enemy who should happen to be taken in the redoubt,
and that, through motives of humanity, I forbore to
execute the order. Positively and unequivocally I
declare, that no such nor similar order, nor any in-
timation nor hint resembling it, was ever by me
received, or understood to have been given. It is
needless to enter into an explanation of some occur-
rences on the occasion alluded to, which may be con-
jectured to have given rise to the calumny. It is

442 Alexander Hamilton

enough to say that they were entirely disconnected
with any act of either of the generals who have been
accused.

With esteem, I am, sir, your most obedient ser-
vant.'

TO OLIVER WOLCOTT

Grange, Aug. 14, 1803.

My Dear Sir:

When you were last in town, I proposed to com-
municate to you the outline of a project, by which I
think you may enter upon a career of business bene-
ficial to yourself and friends. My almost constant
attendance at court ever since you were here, has
retarded the communication which I shall now make.

Let a commercial capital be found, to consist of
100,000 dollars, divided into shares of $100 each. A
subscriber to pay in cash one tenth of his subscription,
and for the residue 7 per centum per annum. It
will then be his interest to pay up as soon as he can.

The subscribers to form a partnership, under the
firm of Oliver Wolcott & Co. ; Oliver Wolcott alone
to have the signature of the firm, and the active
management of the affairs of the company, with an
allowance of $1,500 per annum out of the profits
for the trouble of management, besides his share of
profits as a partner.

Oliver Wolcott and two others of the partners to
form a board of direction, to plan, etc.

Clerks and all incidental expenses to be paid out
of the fund.

' Reprinted from the History of the Republic, ii., 271.

Private Correspondence 443

The objects of the company.

1 . Agencies of purchase and sales of land, stocks,
etc.

2. Factorage of cargoes, consigned on commis-
sion; purchase of goods on commission, etc. ; in brief,
''the business of a commission merchant merely."

3. Purchases at auction, and sales of the articles
purchased.

4. Loans of money on deposit of goods, with a
right, if not redeemed in time, to sell on commission,
perhaps.

Speculative enterprises in navigation and com-
merce to be excluded.

In a company thus formed under your manage-
ment, I should be willing to become a partner for
from 5 to 10,000 dollars, and I have no doubt that
the capital will be readily formed of confidential
and trustworthy characters, who would insure great
credit to the house. I am also confident, that when
it should be known in Europe that certain characters
were of the company, it would attract a good portion
of profitable employment.

I will enter into no further detail. If the project
impresses you favorably, come to New York, and we
will give it form, and finish and prepare for execu-
tion. Do not lightly reject it.

TO GOUVERNEUR MORRIS

Grange, Sept. 4, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

I fully intended to have dined with you to day,
but, going to town the two last days, and forgetting

444 Alexander Hamilton

that I ought to observe a regimen, I have brought
back, in some degree, the complaint which lately an-
noyed me, and which requires to be well watched.
This must deprive me of the pleasure of seeing you.

I send schedules of the papers required of Tillier,
all which have been put into my hands ; the bills to
remain till the close of the affair; the other docu-
ments to be delivered to your order.

I also send a draught of the trust deed. It en-
deavors to comply with your suggestion, as far as
can be done without running foul of the danger de-
sired to be avoided.

Your guests are invited to dine with us Thursday
next.

Will you make one?

TO GENERAL CHARLES COTESWORTH PINCKNEY

Grange (New York), Dec. 29, 1802.

My Dear Sir:

A garden, you know, is a very useful refuge of a
disappointed politician. Accordingly, I have pur-
chased a few acres about nine miles from town, have
built a house, and am cultivating a garden. The
melons in your country are very fine. Will you have
the goodness to send me some seed, both of the
water and musk melons? My daughter adds an-
other request, which is for three or four of your
paroquets. She is very fond of birds. If there be
any thing in this quarter the sending of which can
give you pleasure, you have only to name them.

/

Private Correspondence 445

As farmers, a new source of sympathy has arisen
between us, and I am pleased with every thing in
which our Hkings and tastes can be approximated.
Amidst the triumphant reign of democracy, do you V^
retain sufficient interest in pubHc affairs to feel any
curiosity about what is going on? In my opinion,
the follies and vices of the administration have as
yet made no material impression to their disadvan-
tage. On the contrary, I think the malady is rather
progressive than upon the decline in our Northern j
quarter. The last lullaby message, instead of in- i_.
spiring contempt, attracts praise. Mankind are for- ■ f
ever destined to be the dupes of bold and cunning
imposture. But a difficult knot has been twisted by
the incidents of the cession of Louisiana, and the in- \
terruption of the deposit of New Orleans. You have
seen the soft turn given to this in the message. Yet
we are told that the President, in conversation, is
very stout. The great embarrassment must be how
to carry on the war without taxes. The pretty
scheme of substituting economy to taxation will not
do here. And a war would be a terrible comment
upon the abandonment of the internal revenue. Yet
how is popularity to be preserved with the Western
partisans if their interests are tamely sacrificed?
Will the artifice be for the chief to hold a bold lan-
guage, and the subalterns to act a feeble part?
Time must explain. You know my general theory
as to our Western affairs. I have always held that
the unity of our empire and the best interests of our
nation require that we shall annex to the United
States all the territory east of the Mississippi, New i

44^ Alexander Hamilton

Orleans included. Of course I infer that, in an
emergency like the present, energy is wisdom.

Mrs. Hamilton joins me in affectionate compli-
ments to Mrs. Pinckney.

TO TIMOTHY PICKERING *

New York, Sept. i8, 1803.

My Dear Sir:

I will make no apology for my delay in answering
your inquiry, some time since made, because I could
offer none which would satisfy myself. I pray you
only to believe that it proceeded from any thing
rather than want of respect or regard. I shall now
comply with your request. The highest- toned pro-
positions which I made in the convention were for a
President, Senate, and Judges during good behavior
— a House of Representatives for three years.
Though I would have enlarged the legislative power
of the general government, yet I never contem-
plated the abolition of the State governments, but
on the contrary, they were, in some particulars, con-
stituent parts of my plan. This plan was, in my
conception, conformable with the strict theory of a
government purely republican, the essential criteria
of which are that the principal organs of the execu-
tive and legislative departments be elected by the
people, and hold their offices by a responsible and
temporary or defeasible tenure. A vote was taken
on the proposition respecting the executive. Five

^ At this time Senator from Massachusetts.

Private Correspondence 447

States were in favor of it, among these Virginia, and
though, from the manner of voting — by delegations,
— individuals were not distinguished, it was morally
certain, from the known situation of the Virginia
members (six in number, two of them, Mason and
Randolph, professing popular doctrines), that Madi-
son must have concurred in the work of Virginia;
thus, if I sinned against republicanism, Mr. Madison
was not less guilty. I may truly then say that I
never proposed either a President or Senate for life,
and that I neither recommended nor meditated the
annihilation of the State governments. And I may
add that, in the course of the discussions in the con-
vention, neither the propositions thrown out for de-
bate, nor even those voted in the earlier stages of
the deliberation, were considered as evidences of a
definitive opinion in the proposer or voter. ^ It ap-
peared to me to be in some sort imderstood that,
with a view to free investigation, experimental propo-
sitions might be made, which were to be received
merely as suggestions for consideration. Accord-
ingly, it is a fact that my final opinion was against
an Executive during good behavior, on account of
the increased danger to the public tranquillity inci-
dent to the election of a magistrate of this degree of
permanency. In the plan of a constitution which I
drew up while the convention was sitting, and which
I communicated to Mr. Madison about the close of
it, perhaps a day or two after, the office of President
has no greater duration than for three years.^ This

* See Madison Papers, ii., 724-762.
2 Ihid., iii.; Appendix xvi. and xxi.

i

44^ Alexander Hamilton

plan was predicated upon these bases: i. That the

political principles of the people of this country

would endure nothing but republican government.

2. That in the actual situation of the country, it was

^ in itself right and proper that the republican theory

K' should have a fair and full trial. 3. That to such a

; trial it was essential that the government should be

\ so constructed as to give all the energy and stability

^. reconcilable with the principles of that theory.

These were the genuine sentiments of my heart,
and upon them I acted. I sincerely hope that it
may not hereafter be discovered that, through want
of sufficient attention to the last idea, the experi-
ment of republican government, even in this country,
has not been as complete, as satisfactory, and as
decisive as could be wished.

TO RUFUS KING

Albany, Feb. 24, 1804.

My Dear Sir:

You will have heard before this reaches you of the
fluctuations and changes which have taken place in
the measures of the reigning party, as to a candidate
for governor ; and you will probably have also been
informed that, pursuant to the opinions professed by
our friends, before I left New York I had taken an
active part in favor of Mr. Lansing.

It is a fact to be regretted, though anticipated,
that the Federalists very extensively had embarked
with zeal in the support of Mr. Burr ; yet an impres-
sion to the contrary, and in favor of Mr. Lansing, had

Private Correspondence 449

been made, and there was good ground to hope that
a proper direction in the main might have been given
to the current of Federahsm. The substitution of
Mr. Lewis has essentially varied the prospect, and
the best informed among us here agree that the
Federalists, as a body, could not be diverted from
Mr. Burr to Mr. Lewis, by any efforts of leading
characters, if they should even deem the support of
the latter expedient.

Though I have no reason to think that my original
calculation was wrong, while the competition was be-
tween Clinton and Burr, yet from the moment the
former declined, I began to consider the latter as
having a chance of success. It was still, however, my
reliance that Lansing would outrun him; but now
that Chief -Justice Lewis is the competitor, the prob-
ability in my judgment inclines to Mr. Burr.

Thus situated, two questions have arisen; first,
whether a federal candidate ought not to be run, as
a means of defeating Mr. Burr, and of keeping the
Federalists from becoming a personal faction allied
to him. Second, whether, in the conflict of parties
as they now stand, the strongest of them discon-
certed and disjointed, there would not be a consider-
able hope of success for a federal candidate.

These questions have received no solution in
scarcely any one's mind; but it is agreed that, if an
attempt is to be made, you must be the candidate. |
There is no other man among us under whose stand-
ard either fragment of the democratic party could
as easily rally. It is enough to say, you have been
absent during the time in which party animosities

VOL. X.— 2g.

450 Alexander Hamilton

have become matured and fixed, and, therefore, are
much less than any other distinguished FederaHst,
an object of them.

To detach the Federalists from Burr, they must
believe two things: one, that we are in earnest as to
our candidate, and that it is not a mere diversion;
the other, that there is some chance of success. All
believe, and some leading candidates admit, that if
either of the two democratic rival parties should
come to expect a defeat, they will range themselves
under your banner.

Reflect well on all these things, and make up your
mind in case you should be invited^ to consent. I
have not time to enlarge.

TO GOVERNOR GEORGE CLINTON

Albany, Feb. 27, 1804.

Sir:

It is now a long time since a very odious slander '
has been in circulation to the prejudice of my
character.

It has come to my ears in more than one way, but
always, till lately, without the disclosure of any
source to which I could resort for explanation or
detection. Within a few days, Mr. Kane, of this
city, related to me a story as coming from Judge
Purdy, in substance very similar to the calumny to

' To the effect that he was the author of a letter proposing a mon-
archical government, in 1788, with Prince Frederick, Duke of York,
and titular Bishop of Osnaburg, as king. Clinton finally disclaimed
all belief in the accusation.

Private Correspondence 451

which I have alluded. The amount of his informa-
tion, and the result of an interview with Judge Purdy,
are contained in the enclosed paper.^ You will ob-
serve, sir, that your name is implicated in the trans-
action. With what warrant, it would be improper

' The following letter is the paper referred to. It is taken from, the
Clinton papers, and I owe it to the kindness of Mr. Henry A. Homes,
State Librarian of New York:

" Some time in the month of January last I called on the Hon. Jacob
Snell, a member of the Council of Appointment, where I found the
Hon. Ebenezer Purdy, together with a Mr. Hughes and one or two other
gentlemen, whose names I do not recollect. Mr. Purdy immediately
asked me if I had any objection to hear an oration read that was
delivered on the Fourth of July by a young Irishman, who, if I mistake
not, then resided in his family. I replied, Certainly not. It was a
violent philippic against the Federal administration; the stamp act,
sedition law, standing army, etc., were represented as the leading
features of the Federal faction. After some considerable conversation
on the merits of the oration, between Mr. Purdy and myself, he re-
marked that he fully believed monarchy was the object of the Federal-
ists; that there was a person who did not wish to have his name
mentioned who could prove the fact, and stood ready to make affidavit
of it. That some time in the year of '98 a negotiation was opened
between Gen. Hamilton, Mr. Adams, and the King of England, for the
purpose of introducing monarchy into this country, at the head of
which was to be placed one of the royal family, and that Canada was
to be ceded to the States. For the truth of the above, Mr. Purdy
referred me to Governor Clinton, who he said would not deny it, altho'
he did not wish to say any thing about it.

"On the 23d of January, 1804, Gen. Hamilton and myself called
upon Mr. Purdy for the purpose of investigating the affair. Gen.
Hamilton introduced the subject to Mr. Purdy by telling him he had
received information from Mr. Kane of certain declarations [of] a
nature very interesting to his character, which he was determined to
have explained and investigated. I then related to Mr. Purdy the
conversation he had with me, as above stated. Mr. Purdy replied:
'What you have said, Mr. Kane, is pretty nearly correct [or words to
that effect], with this difference: I did not mention Mr. Adams' name,
and that affair which I spoke of to you did not happen in '98, but some
time previous to the convention which formed the present Constitution
of the United States. What I told you was nearly this: That some-
body in England had made proposals to somebody at the Eastward

452 Alexander Hamilton

for me to prejudge. But the very mention of your
name adds importance to the affair, and increases
the motives to investigation.

The charge, even in the mitigated form to which
it is reduced by Judge Purdy's admission, is of a na-
ture too derogatory to permit me to pass it Hghtly
over. It is essential that its origin and progress
should be traced as fully as may be practicable, in
order to the thorough exposure of its falsehood and
malignity.

The assertions of Judge Purdy authorize me to
appeal to you for a frank and candid explanation of
so much of the matter as relates to yourself. This
explanation I request as speedily as may be.

for establishing a monarchy in this country, and placing at the head
of it a son of the King of Great Britain; that some letters or papers
containing these proposals were sent to Gen. Hamilton, copies of which
were made in his office to be distributed amongst certain persons.'
Mr. Purdy then asked me if this was not the substance of what he had
told me. I said that the difference was between that and what I had
before stated, and recapitulated what I have before said. I also
pressed upon Mr. Purdy what I had before stated respecting Gov.
Clinton, and questioned him whether he had not made such an appeal
to Gov. Clinton, and also whether he had not affirmed that there
was a person who could attest the truth of the story. Mr. Purdy per-
sisted in the statement which he had just made. As to Gov. Clinton,
he admitted that he had mentioned to the Governor the story he had
heard, and that the Governor had replied that he had had one of the
letters. On being interrogated by Gen. Hamilton, whether he had
mentioned his name to Gov. Clinton, he answered he was not sure
whether he had done it or not. On being further interrogated as to his
having said there was a person ready to prove the transaction he had
stated, he answered there was a person who had assured him of his
knowledge of the transaction as it was now stated by him. A variety
of other conversation passed, but the above comprises the most
material particulars.

(Signed) *' James Kane."

Private Correspondence 453

TO GOVERNOR GEORGE CLINTON

Albany, March 2, 1804.

Sir:

If our correspondence does not terminate with
your letter of the 29th February, received yesterday,
I wish it to be understood that it proceeds merely
from the desire of removing all ambiguity from a
transaction in which my character may be materially
interested.

It is perhaps the natural inference from what you
have stated, that nothing took place on your part to
sanction or corroborate the story related to you by
Judge Purdy, in reference to any agency or co-opera-
tion of mine in the supposed project. Yet some of
the circumstances are such, that a different inference
might possibly be drawn.

I therefore trust that you will be sensible of the
propriety of dissipating all obscurity on this point.

If the letter, which you mention to have been put
in your hands by General Malcolm, was not with-
drawn by him, or if any copy was retained by you,
it would be satisfactory to me to have an inspection
of the one or the other, with leave to take a copy, in
order that I may have an additional clue to the
source of a story, which I verily believe originated
entirely in a fabrication.

TO GOVERNOR GEORGE CLINTON
3jr; Albany, March 7, 1804.

On Saturday last I sent you a letter, of which the
foregoing is a copy, to which, as yet, I have received
no reply.

454 Alexander Hamilton

Intending to leave this place for New York on
Saturday next, it is important that I should receive
an answer before that day.

TO GOVERNOR GEORGE CLINTON

Albany, March 9, 1804.

Sir:

I had the honor of receiving yesterday your Ex-
cellency's letter of the 6th instant. It is agreeable
to me to find in it a confirmation of the inference
that you had given no countenance to the supposi-
tion of my agency or co-operation in the project to
which the story of Judge Purdy relates ; and it only
remains for me to regret that it is not in your power
to furnish the additional clue, of which I was de-
sirous, to aid me in tracing the fabrication to its
source.

I shall not only rely on the assurance which you
give as to the future communication of the copy of
the letter in question, should it hereafter come to
your hands, but I will take the liberty to add a re-
quest, that you will be pleased to make known to
me any other circumstances, if any should reach you,
which may serve to throw light upon the affair. I
feel an anxiety that it should be thoroughly sifted,
not merely on my own account, but from a convic-
tion that the pretended existence of such a project,
long travelling about in whispers, has had no in-
considerable influence in exciting false alarms, and
unjust suspicions to the prejudice of a number of

Private Correspondence 455

individuals, every way worthy of public confidence,
who have always faithfully supported the existing
institutions of the country, and who would disdain
to be concerned in an intrigue with any foreign power,
or its agents, either for introducing monarchy, or for
promoting or upholding any other scheme of govern-
ment within the United States.

TO TALLEYRAND

New York, March 25, 1804.

Sir:

Presuming on the acquaintance, from which I
derived so much pleasure during your stay in this
country, I am going to take a very great liberty. It
concerns a near relation of mine, Mr. Alexander
Hamilton, now a prisoner of war on parole at Paris.

His brother, from whom I have just received a let-
ter, informs me that, being on a visit to the continent
as a traveller, he was overtaken by the war between
France and Great Britain, and has been since that
time in the situation which I have mentioned. He
is a Scotch gentleman of education and literary ac-
quirements, who, having amassed a pretty hand-
some fortune in the East Indies, had returned to his
own country to devote himself to the pursuits of
knowledge, and was induced to pass over to the con-
tinent to indulge his curiosity, with a particular eye
to the very interesting monuments of the arts, of
which Paris is now the depository.

I will ask nothing specific for him, because I know
not what could with propriety be done, contenting

\

45^ Alexander Hamilton

myself with merely saying, that if your interposition
can procure for him any facility, indulgence, or favor,
it will confer a personal obligation on one who has
the honor to remain, etc.

TO

New York, April 12, 1804.

Dear Sir:

The post of to-day brought me a letter from you,

and another from Mr. . I have no doubt but

the latter would serve you if he could ; but he cannot
at this time.

On the whole, I would advise you to return to
New York, and accept any respectable employment
in your way, till an opportunity of something better
shall occur. T is by practice and perseverance
that we can expect to vanquish difficulties, and
better an unpleasant condition.

Arraign not the dispensations of Providence, they
must be founded in wisdom and goodness ; and when
they do not suit us, it must be because there is some
fault in ourselves which deserves chastisement; or
because there is a kind intent, to correct in us some
vice or failing, of which, perhaps, we may not be
conscious ; or because the general plan requires that
we should suffer partial ill.

In this situation it is our duty to cultivate resigna-
tion, and even humility, bearing in mind, in the lan-
guage of the poet, " that it was pride which lost the
blest abodes." '

^ Now first printed from the Hamilton papers in the State Depart-
ment.

Private Correspondence 457

TO PHILIP J. SCHUYLER '

April 20, 1804.

My Dear Sir:

I did not write to you on the subject of the awards,
because I was in correspondence with Mr. Jacob Van
Rensselaer respecting the matter.

He has sent me the draughts of deeds which I
shall in a few days inspect, and return with such
suggestions as may be requisite.

The things most urgent are — i. The completion of
the survey, which Mr. R. writes me is in train. — 2.
The appointment of a guardian for Mr. Kane's
daughter at Schenectady. On both objects, I have
written particularly to Mr. J. Van Rensselaer.

I say nothing on politics, with the course of which
I am too much disgusted to give myself any futtire
concern about them.*

TO JAMES A. HAMILTON

1804.

My Dear James:

I have prepared for you a Thesis on Discretion.
You may need it. God bless you.

Your affectionate father.^

TO THEODORE SEDGWICK

New York, Jiily lo, 1804.

My Dear Sir:

1 have received two letters from you since we last
saw each other, that of the latest date being the 24th

' Hamilton's brother-in-law.

2 This letter, now first printed, I owe to the kindness of Mr. Henry A.
Homes, State Librarian at Albany.

3 Reprinted from the Reminiscences of James A. Hamilton, p. 40.

'iY

45^ Alexander Hamilton

of May. I have had on hand for some time a long
letter to you, explaining my view of the course and
tendency of our politics, and my intentions as to my
own future conduct. But my plan embraced so
large a range that, owing to much avocation, some
indifferent health, and a growing distaste to politics,
the letter is still considerably short of being finished.
I write this now to satisfy you that want of regard
for you has not been the cause of my silence.
I I will here express but one sentiment, which is,
'' that dismemberment of our empire will be a clear
sacrifice of great positive advantages without any
counterbalancing good, administering no relief to
-\l! our real disease, which is democracy, the poison of
which, by a subdivision, will only be the more con-
centrated in each part, and consequently the more
virulent. King is on his way for Boston, where you
may chance to see him, and hear from himself his
sentiments. God bless you.'

[This letter and the next were omitted by an over-
sight, and are therefore given here.]

TO GENERAL JOHN SULLIVAN

Headquarters, 1778.

Sir:

His Excellency has received your two last favors
to-day. In the first you hint the want of a rein-
forcement, but as the intention of your body is
chiefly for observation and skirmishing, and not to

' The day after this letter was written Hamilton was killed by Burr.

Private Correspondence 459

make any serious stands, it is the less necessary it
should be powerful in numbers. It will, however,
depend upon circumstances how far it will be ex-
pedient to reinforce; and as soon as anything can
be determined from them, you shall have whatever
addition of strength you may stand in need of.

The information contained in your last, of the
enemy's being encamped on the road leading from
New Brunswick to Princeton, about the Third Mile
Run, is not well founded. We have had parties and
officers, reconnoitring as far as the Mile Run, and
there is no sign of an encampment. They seem to
be taking their old position with their right at Am-
boy , their left at Brunswick ; but how long they will
remain so it is hard to tell. His Excellency desires
you will engage some trusty person at South Amboy,
on whom you can depend for faithful and early in-
telligence of the appearance of shipping in the river,
or any preparation for a movement by water, that
we may be in time prepared to counteract them.

TO WASHINGTON

Amboy, March 17, 1780.

Dear Sir:

I duly received your letter of the fourteenth, and
shall not fail, in conjunction with General St. Clair,
to attend to the military object of it. I am much
obliged to your Excellency for the communication
of your Southern advices. The enemy are still in
the dark about their fleet and army gone that way,
as we gather from the commissioners. They pre-

460 Alexander Hamilton

tend to have little European news, though a vessel
arrived two or three days since from England, after
ten weeks' passage. We send you some late New
York papers.

The commission has been several days at an end.
The enemy, as was supposed, had no idea of treating
on national ground. We are now in private con-
versation, and so far not without hopes that the
liberation of our prisoners will be effected on ad-
missible terms. Two or three days more will prob-
ably put an end to the interview. General St. Clair
and Colonel Carrington beg their respects may be
presented to your Excellency.

[Correspondence relating to the duel with Burr.
Reprinted from the History of the Republic, vii., 805,
et seq.'\

A. BURR TO GENERAL HAMILTON

New York, J\me 18, 1804.

Sir:

I send you for your perusal a letter signed Charles
D. Cooper, which, though apparently published
some time ago, has but very recently come to my
knowledge. Mr. Van Ness, who does me the honor
to deliver this, will point out to you that clause of
the letter to which I particularly request yoiir at-
tention. You must perceive, sir, the necessity of a
prompt, unqualified acknowledgment or denial of
the use of any expressions which would warrant the
assertions of Dr. Cooper.

Private Correspondence 461

HAMILTON TO BURR

New York, Jtine 20, 1804.

Sir:

I have maturely reflected on the subject of your
letter of the eighteenth instant, and the more I have
reflected, the more I have become convinced that I
could not, without manifest impropriety, make the
avowal or disavowal which you seem to think neces-
sary. The clause pointed out by Mr. Van Ness is
in these terms: ''I could detail to you a still more
despicable opinion which General Hamilton has ex- \
pressed of Mr. Burr." To endeavor to discover the
meaning of this declaration, I was obliged to seek in
the antecedent part of this letter for the opinion to
which it referred, as having been already disclosed.
I foimd it in these words: '* General Hamilton and
Judge Kent have declared in substance that they
looked upon Mr. Burr to be a dangerous m.an, and
one who ought not to be trusted with the reins of
government."

The language of Dr. Cooper plainly implies that he
considered this opinion of you, which he attributes
to me, as a despicable one; but he affirms that I
have expressed some other, more despicable, without,
however, mentioning to whom, when, or where.
'T is evident that the phrase '' still more despicable"
admits of infinite shades, from very light to very
dark. How am I to judge of the degree intended,
or how shall I annex any precise idea to language so
indefinite ?

Between gentlemen, despicable and more despica-
ble are not worth the pains of distinction; when,

462 Alexander Hamilton

therefore, you do not interrogate me as to the opinion
which is specifically ascribed to me, I must conclude
that you view it as within the limits to which the
animadversions of political opponents upon each
other may justifiably extend, and consequently as
not warranting the idea of it which Dr. Cooper ap-
pears to entertain. If so, what precise inference
could you draw as a guide for your conduct, were I
to acknowledge that I had expressed an opinion of
you still more despicable than the one which is par-
ticularized? How could you be sure that even this
opinion had exceeded the bounds which you yourself
deem admissible between political opponents .f*

But I forbear further comment on the emibarrass-
ment to which the requisition you have made natu-
rally leads. The occasion forbids a more ample
illustration, though nothing could be more easy than
to pursue it. Repeating, that I cannot reconcile it
with propriety to make the acknowledgment you
desire, I will add that I deem it inadmissible, on
principle, to consent to be interrogated as to the
justness of the inferences which may be drawn by
others from what I may have said of a political op-
ponent in the course of fifteen years' competition.
If there were no other objection to it, this is suf-
ficient, that it would tend to expose my sincerity and
delicacy to injurious imputation from every person
who may at any time have conceived the import of
my expressions differently from what I may then
have intended or may afterwards recollect. I stand
ready to avow or disavow, promptly and explicitly,
any precise or definite opinion which I may be

Private Correspondence 463

charged with having declared of any gentleman.
More than this cannot fitly be expected from me,
and especially it cannot be reasonably expected
that I shall enter into an explanation upon a basis so
vague as that which you have adopted. I trust, on
mature reflection, you will see the matter in the same
light with me. If not, I can only regret the circimi- |
stance, and must abide the consequences. I ^i h(>9

The publication of Dr. Cooper was never seen by
me until after the receipt of your letter.

BURR TO HAMILTON

New York, Jiine 21, 1804.

Sir:

Your letter of the 20th inst. has been this day re-
ceived. Having considered it attentively, I regret
to find in it nothing of that sincerity and delicacy
which you profess to value.

Political opposition can never absolve gentlemen
from the necessity of a rigid adherence to the laws
of honor and the rules of decorum. I neither claim
such privilege nor indulge it in others.

The common-sense of mankind affixes to the
epithet adopted by Dr. Cooper, the idea of dishonor.
It has been publicly applied to me under the sanc-
tion of your name. The question is not whether he
has understood the meaning of the word, or has
used it according to syntax and with grammatical
accuracy, but whether you have authorized this
application, either directly or by uttering expres-
sions or opinions derogatory to my honor. The
time "when" is in your own knowledge, but no way

464 Alexander Hamilton

material to me, as the calumny has now first been
disclosed, so as to become the subject of my notice,
and as the effect is present and palpable. Your
letter has furnished me with new reasons for re-
quiring a definite reply.

HAMILTON TO BURR

New York, June 22, 1804.

Sir:

Your first letter, in a style too peremptory, made
a demand, in my opinion, unprecedented and un-
warrantable. My answer, pointing out the em-
barrassment, gave you an opportunity of taking a
less exceptionable course. You have not chosen to
do it ; but by your last letter, received this day, con-
taining expressions indecorous and improper, you
have increased the difhculties to explanation in-
trinsically incident to the nature of your applica-
tion. If by a " definite reply," you mean the direct
avowal or disavowal required in your first letter, I
have no other answer to give, than that which has
already been given. If you mean any thing differ-
ent, admitting of greater latitude, it is requisite you
should explain.

W. p. VAN NESS ' TO HAMILTON

Jtine 23, 1804.

Sir:

In the afternoon of yesterday, I reported to Col.
Burr the result of my last interview with you and

^ Burr's second in the duel.

Private Correspondence 465

appointed the evening to receive his further instruc-
tions. Some private engagements, however, pre-
vented me from calHng on him till morning. On
my return to the city, I found upon inquiry, both
at your office and house, that you had returned to
your residence in the country.

Lest an interview there might be less agreeable to
you than elsewhere, I have taken the liberty of ad-
dressing you this note to inquire when and where it
will be most convenient to you to receive a com-
munication.

VAN NESS TO MAJOR NATHANIEL PENDLETON '

June 26, 1804.

Sir:

The letter which you yesterday delivered me, and
your subsequent communication, in Col. Burr's opin-
ion, evince no disposition on the part of General
Hamilton to come to a satisfactory accommoda-
tion. The injury complained of and the repara-
tion expected are so definitely expressed in Col.
Burr's letter of the 21st instant, that there is not
perceived a necessity for further explanation on his
part. The difficulty that would result from con-
fining the inquiry to any particular times and occa-
sions must be manifest. The denial of a specified
conversation only, would leave strong implication
that on other occasions improper language had been
used. When and where injurious opinions and ex-
pressions have been uttered by General Hamilton

^ Pendleton was Hamilton's second in the duel.

VOL. X, — 30.

466 Alexander Hamilton

must be best known to him, and of him only will
Col. Burr inquire. No denial or declaration will be
satisfactory, unless it be general, so as to wholly
exclude the ideas that rumors derogatory to Col.
Burr's honor have originated with General Hamil-
ton, or have been fairly inferred from any thing he
has said. A definite reply to a requisition of this
nature was demanded by Col. Burr's letter of the
twenty-first inst. This being refused, invites the
alternative referred to in General Hamilton's letter
of the 2oth. It was required by the position in
which the controversy was placed by General Ham-
ilton on Friday last, and I was immediately fur-
nished with a communication demanding a personal
interview. The necessity of this measure has not,
in the opinion of Col. Burr, been diminished by the
General's last letter, or any commimication which
has since been received. I am consequently again
instructed to deliver to you a message, as soon as it
may be convenient for you to receive it. I beg,
therefore, you will be so good as to inform me at
what hour I can have the pleasure of seeing you.

PENDLETON TO VAN NESS

June 26, 1804.

Sir:

I have communicated the letter which you did me
the honor to write to me of this date, to General
Hamilton. The expectations now disclosed on the
part of Col. Burr appear to him to have greatly ex-
tended the original ground of inquiry, and instead

Private Correspondence 467

of presenting a particular and definite case for
explanation, seem to aim at nothing less than an
inquisition into his most confidential conversations,
as v^ell as others, through the whole period of his ac-
quaintance with Col. Burr. While he was prepared
to meet the particular case fairly and fully, he thinks
it inadmissible that he should be expected to answer
at large as to every thing that he may possibly have
said, in relation to the character of Col. Burr, at any
time, or upon any occasion. Though he is not con-
scious that any charges which are in circulation to
the prejudice of Col. Burr have originated with him,
except one which may have been so considered, and
which has long since been fully explained between
Col. Burr and himself, yet he cannot consent to be
questioned generally as to any rumors which may
be afloat derogatory to the character of Col. Buit,
without specification of the several rumors, many of
them probably unknown to him. He does not, how-
ever, mean to authorize any conclusion as to the real
nature of his conduct in relation to Col. Burr, by
his declining so loose and vague a basis of explana-
tion, and he disavows an unwillingness to come to
a satisfactory, provided it be an honorable, accom-
modation.

His objection is, the very indefinite ground which
Col. Burr has assumed, in which he is sorry to be
able to discern nothing short of premeditated hos-
tility. Presuming, therefore, that it will be ad-
hered to, he has instructed me to receive the
message which you have it in charge to deliver.
For this purpose I shall be at home and at your

4^8 Alexander Hamilton

accommodation to-morrow morning, from eight to
ten o'clock.'

VAN NESS TO PENDLETON

June 27, 1804.

Sir:

The letter which I had the honor to receive from
you, under date of yesterday, states, among other
things, that in General Hamilton's opinion, Col.
Burr has taken a very indefinite ground, in which
he evinces nothing short of pre-determined hostility,
and that General Hamilton thinks it inadmissible
that the inquiry should extend to his confidential as
well as other conversations. In this Col. Burr can
only reply, that secret whispers, traducing his fame
and impeaching his honor, are, at least, equally in-
jurious with slanders publicly uttered ; that General
Hamilton had at no time and in no place a right to
use any such injurious expressions, and the partial
negative he is disposed to give, with the reservation
he wishes to make, are proofs that he has done the
injury specified.

Col. Burr's request was, in the first instance, pro-
posed in a form the most simple, in order that Gen-

^ Note from the History of the Republic, vii,, 812. — 'T is not unworthy
of notice, that on the very day of this communication, Hamilton, who
had been consulted by a poor, illiterate man, in the humblest walk of
life, wrote this note: " Dear Sir: I should like to see you on the sub-
ject of a poor fellow, Peter Drinker, who says he has been employed by
you, and appears unfortunate, which is his title to my attention. Yours
truly, A. H. June 26, 1804. P. G. Stuyvesant, Esq." This much-
respected gentleman relates: "I reproved the man for the freedom in
which he had indulged, and undertook to convince him of the impro-
priety of troubling General Hamilton with his concerns." His reply
was: "Oh, no, sir, he treated me very kindly."

Private Correspondence 469

eral Hamilton might give to the affair that course
to which he might be induced by his temper and
his knowledge of facts. Col. Burr trusted with con-
fidence that, from the frankness of a soldier and the
candor of a gentleman, he might expect an ingenuous
declaration. That if, as he had reason to believe,
General Hamilton had used expressions derogatory
to his honor, he would have had the magnanimity
to retract them; and that if, from his language, in-
jurious inferences had been improperly drawn, he
would have perceived the propriety of correcting
errors which might thus have been widely diffused.
With these impressions, Col. Burr was greatly sur-
prised at receiving a letter which he considered as
evasive, and which in manner he deemed not alto-
gether decorous. In one expectation, however, he
was not wholly deceived, for the close of General
Hamilton's letter contained an intimation that if
Col. Burr should dislike his refusal to acknowledge
or deny, he was ready to meet the consequences.
This Col. Burr deemed a sort of defiance, and would
have felt justified in making it the basis of an im-
mediate message. But as the communication con-
tained something concerning the indefiniteness of
the request, as he believed it rather the offspring of
false pride than of reflection, and as he felt the ut-
most reluctance to proceed to extremities while any
other hope remained, his request was repeated in
terms more explicit. The replies and propositions
on the part of Gen. Hamilton have, in Col. Burr's
opinion, been constantly in substance the same.
Col. Burr disavows all motives of premeditated

470 Alexander Hamilton

hostility, a charge by which he thinks insult added
to injury. He feels as a gentleman should feel when
his honor is impeached or assailed ; and without sen-
sations of hostility or wishes of revenge, he is deter-
mined to vindicate that honor at such hazard as the
nature of the case demands.

The length to which this correspondence has ex-
tended, only tending to prove that the satisfactory
redress, earnestly desired, cannot be obtained, he
deems it useless to offer any proposition, except the
simple message, which I shall now have the honor to
dehver.

REMARKS BY HAMILTON ON THE LETTER OF JUNE 27,
Whether the observations on this letter are de-
signed merely to justify the result which is indicated
in the close of the letter, or may be intended to give
an opening for rendering any thing explicit which
may have been deemed vague heretofore, can only
be judged of by the sequel. At any rate, it appears
to me necessary not to be misunderstood. Mr.
Pendleton is therefore authorized to say, that in the
course of the present discussion, written or verbal,
there has been no intention to evade, defy, or in-
sult, but a sincere disposition to avoid extremities,
if it could be done with propriety. With this view,
Gen. Hamilton has been ready to enter into a frank
and free explanation on any and every object of a
specific nature, but not to answer a general and
abstract inquiry embracing a period too long for any

Private Correspondence 471

accurate recollection, and exposing him to unpleas-
ant criticisms from, or unpleasant discussions with,
any and every person who may have understood him
in an unfavorable sense. This (admitting that he
could answer in a manner the most satisfactory to
Col. Burr) he should deem inadmissible in principle
and precedent, and humiliating in practice. To
this therefore he can never submit. Frequent allu-
sion has been made to slanders said to be in circula-
tion. Whether they are openly or in whispers, they
have a form and shape and might be specified. If
the alternative alluded to in the close of the letter is
definitely tendered, it must be accepted; the time,
place, and manner to be afterwards regulated. I
should not think it right in the midst of a Circuit
Court to withdraw my services from those who may
have confided important interests to me and expose
them to the embarrassment of seeking other coimsel,
who may not have time to be sufficiently instructed
in their case. I shall also want a little time to make
some arrangements respecting my own affairs.

STATEMENT BY HAMILTON AS TO HIS MOTIVES IN

MEETING BURR

On my expected interview with Col. Burr, I think
it proper to make some remarks explanatory of my
conduct, motives, and views. I was certainly de-
sirous of avoiding this interview for the most cogent
reasons :

(i) My religious and moral principles are strongly
opposed to the practice of duelling, and it would

472 Alexander Hamilton

ever give me pain to be obliged to shed the blood of
a fellow-creature in a private combat forbidden by
the laws.

My wife and children are extremely dear to
me, and my life is of the utmost importance to them
in various views.

I feel a sense of obligation towards my credit-
ors; who, in case of accident to me by the forced
sale of my property, may be in some degree sufferers.
I did not think myself at liberty as a man of probity
lightly to expose them to this hazard.

I am conscious of no ill-will to Col. Burr, dis-
tinct from political opposition, which, as I trust, has
proceeded from pure and upright motives.

Lastly, I shall hazard much and can possibly gain
nothing by the issue of the interview.

But it was, as I conceive, impossible for me to
avoid it. There were intrinsic difficulties in the
thing and artificial embarrassments, from the man-
ner of proceeding on the part of Col. Burr.

Intrinsic, because it is not to be denied that my
animadversions on the political principles, character,
and views of Col. Burr have been extremely severe;
and on different occasions I, in common with many
others, have made very unfavorable criticisms on
particular instances of the private conduct of this
gentleman. In proportion as these impressions were
entertained with sincerity and uttered with motives
and for purposes which might appear to me com-
mendable, would be the difficulty (until they could
be removed by evidence of their being erroneous) of
explanation or apology. The disavowal required of

Private Correspondence 473

me by Col. Butt in a general and indefinite form was
out of my power, if it had really been proper for me
to submit to be questioned, but I was sincerely of
opinion that this could not be, and in this opinion I
was confirmed by that of a very moderate and p^^^^ ^
judicious friend whom I consulted. Besides that,
Col. Burr appeared to me to assume, in the first in-
stance, a tone imnecessarily peremptory and men-
acing, and, in the second, positively offensive. Yet
I wished, as far as might be practicable, to leave a
door open to accommodation. This, I think, will be
inferred from the written communication made by
me and by my directions, and would be confirmed
by the conversations between Mr. Van Ness and my-
self which arose out of the subject. I am not sure
whether, under all the circumstances, I did not go
further in the attempt to accommodate than a
pimctilious delicacy will justify. If so, I hope the
motives I have stated will excuse me. It is not my
design, by what I have said, to affix any odiimi on
the conduct of Col. Burr in this case. He doubtless
has heard of animadversions of mine which bore ,

very hard upon him, and it is probable that as usual
they were accompanied with some falsehoods. He
may have supposed himself under a necessity of
acting as he has done. I hope the grounds of his
proceeding have been such as ought to satisfy his
own conscience. I trust, at the same time, that the
world will do me the justice to believe that I have
not censured him on light grounds nor from tm-
worthy inducements. I certainly have had strong
reasons for what I have said, though it is possible

474 Alexander Hamilton

that in some partictilars I may have been influenced
by misconstruction or misinformation. It is also my
ardent wish that I may have been more mistaken
than I think I have been ; and that he, by his future
conduct, may show himself worthy of all confidence
and esteem and prove an ornament and a blessing
to the country. As well, because it is possible that
I may have injured Col. Burr, however convinced
myself that my opinions and declarations have been
well-founded, as from my general principles and
temper in relation to similar affairs, I have resolved,
if our interview is conducted in the usual manner,
and it pleases God to give me the opportunity, to
reserve and throw away my first fire, and I have
thoughts even of reserving my second fire, and thus
giving a double opportunity to Col. Burr to pause
and reflect. It is not, however, my intention to
enter into any explanations on the ground. Apology
from principle, I hope, rather than pride, is out of the
question. To those who, with me, abhorring the
practice of duelling, may think that I ought on no
account to have added to the number of bad exam-
ples, I answer that my relative situation, as well in
public as private, enforcing all the considerations
which constitute what men of the world denominate
honor, imposed on me (as I thought) a peculiar
necessity not to decline the call. The ability to be
in future useful, whether in resisting mischief or in
effecting good, in those crises of our public affairs
which seem likely to happen, would probably be in-
separable from a conformity with public prejudice
in this particular.

Private Correspondence 475

TO MRS. HAMILTON

J\ily 10, 1804.

This letter, my dear Eliza, will not be delivered to
you, unless I shall first have terminated my earthly
career, to begin, as I humbly hope, from redeeming
grace and divine mercy, a happy immortality. If
it had been possible for me to have avoided the
interview, my love for you and my precious children
would have been alone a decisive motive. But it
was not possible, without sacrifices which would have
rendered me unworthy of your esteem. I need not
tell you of the pangs I feel from the idea of quitting
you, and exposing you to the anguish I know you
would feel. Nor could I dwell on the topic, lest it
should unman me. The consolations of religion, my
beloved, can alone support you ; and these you have
a right to enjoy. Fly to the bosom of your God, and
be comforted. With my last idea I shall cherish the
sweet hope of meeting you in a better world. Adieu,
best of wives — best of women. Embrace all my
darling children for me.

TO MRS. HAMILTON

Tuesday evening, lo o'clock.

My Beloved Eliza:

Mrs. Mitchell ' is the person in the world to whom,
as a friend, I am imder the greatest obligation. I
have not hitherto done my duty to her. But
resolved to repair my omission to her as much as

^ The sister of Mr. Peter Lytton and of Hamilton's mother, accord-
ing to the statements in J. C. Hamilton's imfinished life of his father.

47^ Alexander Hamilton

possible, I have encouraged her to come to this coim-
try, and intend, if it shall be in my power, to render
the evening of her days comfortable. But if it shall
please God to put this out of my power, and to en-
able you hereafter to be of service to her, I entreat
you to do it, and to treat her with the tenderness of
a sister. This is my second letter. The scruples of
a Christian have determined me to expose my own
life to any extent, rather than subject myself to the
guilt of taking the life of another. This much in-
creases my hazards, and redoubles my pangs for you.
But you had rather I should die innocent than live
guilty. Heaven can preserve me, and I humbly
hope will; but, in the contrary event, I charge you
to remember that you are a Christian. God's will
be done ! The will of a merciful God must be good.
Once more,

Adieu, my darling, darling wife.

[This interesting paper or letter, now first printed,
is unaddressed and undated, but it must have been
written after 1800, and perhaps not long before the
writer's death. I owe it to the kindness of the gen-
tleman in New York, whose letter I am so unfortu-
nate as to have lost. See page 231 of Vol. IX.]

Herewith is a general statement of my pecuniary
f^ affairs, in which there can be no material error.

The result is that calculating my property at what
it stands me in, I am now worth about ;^ 10,000, and
that estimating according to what my lands are now

/,

Private Correspondence 477

selling for and are likely to fetch, the surplus beyond
my debts may fairly be stated at nearly double that
sum; yet I am pained to be obliged to entertain
doubts, whether, if an accident should happen to
me, by v/hich the sales of my property should come
to be forced, it would even be sufficient to pay my
debts. In a situation like this, it is perhaps due to
my reputation to explain why I have made so con-
siderable an establishment in the country. This ex-
planation shall be submitted.

To men who have been so much harassed in the
base world as myself, it is natural to look forward
to a comfortable retirement, in the sequel of life, as
a principal desideratum. This desire I have felt in
the strongest manner, and to prepare for it has
latterly been a favorite object. I thought I might
not only expect to accomplish the object, but might
reasonably aim at it and pursue the preparatory
measures, from the following considerations:

It has been for some time past pretty well ascer-
tained to my mind, that the emoluments of my pro-
fession would prove equal to the maintenance of my
family and the gradual discharge of my debts, within
a period to the end of which my faculties for business
might be expected to extend in full energy. I think
myself warranted to estimate the annual product of
those emoluments at twelve thousand dollars at the
least. My expenses while the first improvements of
my coimtry establishment were going on have been
great, but they would this summer and fall reach the
point at which, it is my intention they should stop,
at least till I should be better able than at present

478 Alexander Hamilton

to add to them ; and after a fair examination founded
upon an actual account of my expenditures, I am
persuaded that a plan I have contemplated for the
next and succeeding years would bring my expenses
of every kind within the compass of four thousand
dollars yearly, exclusive of the interest of my country
establishment. To this limit I have been resolved
to reduce them, even though it should be necessary
to lease that establishment for a few years. In the
meantime, my lands now in a couirse of sale and set-
tlement would accelerate the extinguishment of my
debts, and in the end leave me a handsome clear
property. It was also allowable for me to take into
view collaterally the expectations of my wife : which
have been of late partly realized. She is now en-
titled to a property of between 2,000 and 3,000
pounds (as I compute), by descent from her mother,
and her father is understood to possess a large estate.
I feel all the delicacy of this allusion, but the occasion,
I trust, will plead my excuses, and that venerable
father, I am sure, will pardon. He knows well all
the nicety of my past conduct.

Viewing the matter in these different aspects, I
trust the opinion of candid men will be that there
has been no impropriety in my conduct, especially
when it is taken into the calculation, that my country
establishment, though costly, promises, by the pro-
gressive rise of property on this island and the
felicity of its situation, to become more and more
valuable. My chief apology is to those friends who
have from mere kindness endorsed my paper dis-
counted at the banks. On mature reflection I have

Private Correspondence 479

thought it justifiable to secure them in preference
to other creditors, lest perchance there should be a
deficit. Yet, while this may save them from even-
tual loss, it will not exempt them from present in-
convenience. As to this I can only throw myself
upon their kindness and entreat the indulgence of
the banks for them. Perhaps the request may be
supposed entitled to some regard. In the event
which would bring this paper to the public eye, one
thing at least would be put beyond doubt. This is
that my public labors have amounted to an absolute
sacrifice of the interests of my family, and that in
all pecuniary concerns the delicacy no less than the
probity of conduct in public stations has been such
as to defy even the shadow of a question.

Indeed, I have not enjoyed the ordinary advan-
tages incident to my military services. Being a
member of Congress while the question of the com-
mutation of the half pay of the army for a sum in
gross was in debate, delicacy and a desire to be use-
ful to the army by removing the idea of my having
an interest in the question, induced me to write to
the Secretary of War and relinquish my claim to
half pay, which or the equivalent I have never re-
ceived. Neither have I even applied for the lands
allowed by the United States to officers of my rank.
Nor did I ever obtain from this State the allowance
of lands made to officers of similar rank. It is true
that having served through the latter periods of the
war on the general staff of the United States and not
in the line of this State, I could not claim the allow-
ance as a matter of course; but having before the

480 Alexander Hamilton

war resided in this State, and having entered the
military career at the head of a company of artillery
raised for the particular defence of this State, I had
better pretensions to the allowance than others to
whom it was actually made, yet it has not been
extended to me.

A. H.

RULES FOR MR. PHILIP HAMILTON

From the first of April to the first of October he
is to rise not later than six o'clock; the rest of the
year not later than seven. If earlier, he will de-
serve commendation. Ten will be his hour of going
to bed throughout the year.

From the time he is dressed in the morning till
nine o'clock (the time for breakfast excepted), he
is to read law. At nine he goes to the office, and
continues there till dinner time. He will be occu-
pied partly in writing and partly in reading law.

After dinner he reads law at home till five o'clock.
From this time till seven he disposes of his time as
he pleases. From seven to ten he reads and studies
whatever he pleases.

From twelve on Saturday he is at liberty to amuse
himself.

On Sunday he will attend the morning church.
The rest of the day may be applied to innocent
recreations.

He must not depart from any of these rules with-
out my permission.

Private Correspondence 481

LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT OF ALEXANDER HAMILTON

In the name of God, Amen!

I, Alexander Hamilton, of the State of New York,
counsellor at law, do make this my last will and
testament, as follows: First, I appoint John B.
Church, Nicholas Fish, and Nathaniel Pendleton, of
the city aforesaid, esquires, to be executors and
trustees of this my will, and I devise to them, their
heirs and assigns, as joint tenants, and not as ten-
ants in common, all my estate, real and personal,
whatsoever and wheresoever upon trust, at their
discretion to sell and dispose of the same at such
time and times, in such manner, and upon such
terms as they the survivors and survivor shall think
fit, and out of the proceeds to pay all the debts
which I shall owe at the time of my decease, in
whole, if the fund shall be sufficient, proportionally,
if it shall be insufficient, and the residue, if any there
shall be, to pay and deliver to my excellent and dear
wife, Elizabeth Hamilton.

Though, if it please God to spare my life, I may
look for a considerable surplus out of my present
property; yet if he should speedily call me to the
eternal world, a forced sale, as is usual, may pos-
sibly render it insufficient to satisfy my debts. I
pray God that something may remain for the main-
tenance and education of my dear wife and children.
But should it on the contrary happen that there is
not enough for the payment of my debts, I entreat
my dear children, if they or any of them shall
ever be able, to make up the deficiency. I without

VOL. X. — 31.

4^2 Alexander Hamilton

hesitation commit to their delicacy a wish which is
dictated by my own. Though conscious that I have
too far sacrificed the interests of my family to pub-
lic avocations, and on this account have the less
elaim to burthen my children, yet I trust in their
magnanimity to appreciate, as they ought, this
my request. In so imfavorable an event of things,
the support of their dear mother, with the most
respectful and tender attention, is a duty all the
sacredness of which they will feel. Probably her
own patrimonial resources will preserve her from in-
digence. But in all situations they are charged to
bear in mind that she has been to them the most de-
voted and best of mothers. In testimony whereof,
I have hereunto subscribed my hand, the ninth day
of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight
hundred and four.

Alexander Hamilton.

Signed, sealed, published, and as and for his last
will and testament in our presence, who have sub-
scribed owl names in his presence.

DoMiNiCK T. Blake.

Graham Newell.

Inez B. Valleau.

Epitaph on a Tablet, by the Society of the Cincin-
nati, IN Trinity Church, New York

This Tablet
does not profess to perpetuate

the memory of a man,

to whom the age has produced

no superior ;

nor to emblazon worth,

eminently conspicuous in every feature

of his country's greatness ;

nor to anticipate posterity in their

judgment of the loss which she has

sustained by his premature death ;

but to attest,

in the simplicity of grief,

the veneration and anguish which fill

the hearts of the members of the

New York State Society of

Cincinnati

on every recollection

of their illustrious brother,

Major-General

Alexander Hamilton.
INDEX TO
PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE

Hamilton, Alex., to —

Adams, John , x., 15, 28;

382, 390
Allison, William , ix., 45
Auldjo , ix., 421
Bayard, James Ashton ,

x., 384, 402; 412;
Bond, Phineas , x., 191
Boudinot, Elias , ix., 147,

149; 541; X., 14;

, 182
Bradford, William , x.,
Brooks, Colonel John ,

ix., 168, 172
Broome, Samuel , ix.,442
Burke, ^danus , ix., 467
Burr, Aaron , x., 46 1,464
Carrington,Col. Edward ,

ix., 513; X., 5
Carroll, Charles , x., 378
de Chastellux, Francois Jean

, ix., 403
Chipman, Nathaniel ,

ix., 438, 447
Church, John Barker ,

ix., 396
Clinton, Gov. George ,

ix., 122, 127; 263,

266, 281, 308, 313, 339, 342,

382, 388; 450-454
Cruger, Tileman , ix., 38
Dayton, General Elias ,

X., 305
Dayton, Jonathan , x.,
Dexter, Samuel , x., 380
Dickinson, John , ix., 350
Duane, James , ix., 169,

171, 176, 178; 192,

204, 225

Duer, William , ix., 63;

132; 466;

493; 502, 510
Duportail, General , x.,
Editor of Evening Post ,

.X., 441
Fitzsimmons, Thomas ,

ix., 399; X., 78
Gates, General (lyTj), ix., 109,
Goodhue, Benjamin , ix.,
Gordon, Dr. Wm. , ix.,

169, 188
Gouvemet, Coimt , x.,
Gouvemeur, Nicholas ,

ix., 500
Greene, General , ix.,

194, 237; 301
Greene, Mrs. General , x.,

^54

Greene, William, Governor of
Rhode Island , ix., 306
Greenleaf , x., 187
Hamilton, Angelica , x.,

57.
Hamilton, James , ix., 405
Hamilton, James A. , x.,

T.457

Hamilton, Mrs. (Eliz. Schuyler),
, ix., 243-247;
250,380; X., 421, 422,

Hamilton, Philip , ix.,

499; X., 480
Hamilton (1797 ), x., 257
Hancock, John , ix., loi,
Harrison, Col. R. H. , ix.,

464; X., 30
486 Index to Private Correspondence

Hamilton, Alex., to —

Hazard, Nathaniel , ix.,
Henley, Colonel David ,

ix., 167
Heth, Colonel and others

, ix., 539; x.,324
Hoffman, Josiah O. , x.,
Izard, Captain George ,

X., 361
Jay, John, Pres. of Continental

Congress , ix., 159;

381; 473;

x., 18, 29; 38,

39; 66; 371
Jefferson, Thomas , x., 40
King, Rufus , ix., 423,

457; 485; 540;

x.,3,6,20; 33,40,46,

50. 53; 69, 70, 77;

89,91,98, 101,103,135;

141, 149, 161, 163,

215. 237; 254, 266;

274, 283, 291, 321;

357; 437;
Knox, General , ix., 256;

497; X., 348
Kjiox, Hugh , ix., 82
Lafayette, Marquis , ix.,

137; 247; 303;

459; X., 336
Laurens, Colonel , ix.,

156; 176, 184;

209; 280
Lear, Tobias , x., 356
Lee, Henry , ix., 465;

X., 363
Lee, Major , ix., 166
Livingston, Miss , ix., 163
Livingston, Robert , ix.,

45. 77. 95
Livingston, Wm. , ix.,

59, 61; 422
Madison, James, Jr. , ix.,

377. 379; , 427. 428,

430. 432-437. 440, 453. 462
Matthews, George, Gov. of

Georgia , x., 71
McHenry, James , x.,

171; 241; 281,

307. 309. 317. 320;

349; 388
Meade, Richard K. , ix.,

253, 282

Mifflin, Thomas , ix., 394
Miranda, Francisco , x.,

315 ^
Morris, Gouvemeur , ix.,
45. 47. 54. 65, 68, 71, 74, 86,
89, 99; 399, 402;
428; 537;

X., 398, 401;
407, 408, 419; 425,
427, 429, 443

Morris, Robert , ix., 255,
259, 262, 264, 282, 284, 286,
288, 289, 292, 294, 295, 302

Noailles, Vicomte de , ix.,
Olney, Colonel , x., 59

Otis, Harrison Gray , x,,
Pickering, Timothy , ix.,
287; 464; 468;

487; X., 133,
139, 164, 184, 194;
236, 237, 243, 246, 250, 261,
266, 272; 275, 279,
280,292,294, 297, 319;
342, 343. 350; 366,
369. 376, 391; 446

Pinckney, Gen. Chas. Cotes-
worth , X., 22;
368; 428, 444
Putnam, General , ix.,120
Ross, James , x., 405
Rush, Dr. Benj. , x., 424
Rutledge, John , x., 404
Sands, Comfort , ix., 261
Schuyler, Elizabeth , ix.,

202, 206, 208
Schuyler, Philip , ix.,

232; X., 457
Sears, Isaac , ix., 224
Sedgwick, Theodore , ix.,
446, 451; X., 89;
231, 239, 278;
318, 327; 345;
362, 371, 374, 375. 397;

420; 457
Semphill, Messrs., & Co. ,

ix., 415
Seton, William (17 91), ix., 476,
490, 491, 495, 496, 498;

501, 503, 506, 507, 509,
512, 540; X., 16

Short, William , x., 31
Smith, William , x., 147;

224, 230, 253, 256;
Index to Private Correspondence 487

Hamilton, Alex.,

Steele, John , x., 25
Steuben, Baron , ix., 155;

165, 170; 191,

195. 199-201
Stevens, Edward , ix., 37
Stirling, Lord , ix., 142
Stoddert, Benjamin , x.,
Stillivan, John, Pres. of New
Hampshire , x., 458;
, ix., 432
Talleyrand , x., 455
Taylor, Colonel , x., 353
Temay, Chevalier de ,

ix., 196
Thomas, John, Sheriff of West-
chester , ix., 416
Troup, Robert , x., 107
Verplanck, Gulian , ix.,
Wadsworth, Jeremiah ,

ix., 422; (i'793) x., 56
Walker, Martha , ix., 484
Washington, George ,

ix., 103, III, 115, 119;

138, 139. 144, 146, 179;

189, 195, 205, 226,
228, 459; 238, 240,
243; 251; 310,
322-338, 385, 386;
412; 417, 423. 425;
441, 444, 452;
463; 469, 470, 472,

474; 478, 479. 482,
497; 542; x., 11;

36, 37; 63, 65,
67. 79; 82, 84, 86, 87,
122, 124, 129, 132, 137, 140;
142, 143, 145, 151,
152, 155. 165, 171, 177, 180,

186, 189-191, 198, 200, 204,
206, 208, 229; 233,
272; 284, 286, 295,
299, 310, 320; 343.
352, 356

Washington, Mrs. Martha

, X., 360
Wayne, Gen, Anthony ,

ix., 200
Wilkes, Israel , ix., 406
Williams, Gen. Otho H. ,

ix., 166; 536
Willink, Van Staphorst & Hub*

bard (i795)> x., 84
Winn , ix., 468
Wolcott, Oliver , ix., 459;

X., 76; 92, 102,
104, 106, 107, 112— 117, 125,
126; 145, 161, 170,
173-176, 179, 182, 183, 185,

187, 188, 196, 197, 201, 209,
213, 218, 224; 238,
248, 251, 256, 267, 270, 273,
274; 288, 295, 304,
312, 316; 346, 349.
351; 365, 368, 377,
383. 389. 392, 393; 442

MISCELLANEOUS

Burr, Aaron, to Hamilton, x., 460,
Hamilton, Alex., to —

, , ix., 230;

419; 477; X.,

58; 195; 227;
County Treasurers , ix.,

268, 285
Creditor of William Duer

, X., 49
Friend in Europe , x., 78

N. Y. Bank , ix., 508
N. Y. Congress , ix., 40,

42, 44, 56, 58
U. S. Senate , x., 60
Pendleton, Major Nathan, to W.

P. Van Ness, x., 466
Statements concerning duel with

Burr, X., 470, 471
Van Ness, Maj. W. P., to Major

Pendleton, x., 465, 468
Washington to Hamilton ,
X., 8s

GENERAL INDEX

VOLS. I.-X., INCLUSIVE

(The index for Vols. XI. and XII., containing the Federalist, will
be found at the close of Vol. XII.)

Achaian League, ii., 223

Adams, John, quarrel with Hamil-
ton, vii., 309; administration
of, 309, et seq.; opinion on
British troops in U. S., iv., 313 ;
slandered by Croswell, viii., 387

Adams controversy (John Adams)
vii., 309-365; Hamilton's at-
tack on Adams, 309; letters to
Adams, 364

Additional supplies for 1792, com-
munication to Congress, ii., 408

Addresses, at Annapolis Conven-
tion , i., 335 ; on Clinton,
candidate for N. Y. governor
, ii., 103, 113;
viii., 223; to public creditors
, ii., 472

Adet, French minister to U. S., vi.,
206, 213, 215, 217

Aix-la-Chapelle, treaty of, v., 465

Albany, representation from, ii.,
30; supervisors of, 103

Alexander, practice regarding pri-
vate debts in war time, v., 430

Allegorical Device by Hamilton,
vi., 332

Allen, Ira, viii., 53

America, British rule in, i., 3, et
seq. {See Colonies and United
States.)

Americans, example to France,
iv., 466; manufactures of, i..
144; property of, iv., 215;
supplies, v., 78; uniformity of,
ii., 38

" Americanus," papers on U. S.

obligations to France ,

v., 74; vi., 215
Amsterdam, bills, iii., 68, 71, 119;

loans from, 93, 174
Annapolis, Convention at, i., 243,
"Answer, paper signed " Ameri-
canus," in MtWriia (Dec, 1 796),
on French decree against neu-
trals, vi., 215

An ti- Federalists, address of can-
didates of , viii., 223;
character of, 224; sympathy
with France, 225; charges
against administration of U. S.,
231; administration of N. Y.
by, 242

Arrears of pay , Hamilton
to Washington on soldiers' pe-
tition (Cabinet paper), ii., 327

Atlantic States, commerce of, iv.,

327 ...

Augustus, policy of, iv., 248

Austria, i., 259; iii., 322; iv.,482;

v., 258
Austria, Empress of, result of

death of, i., 259
d'Autun, Bishop {see Talleyrand),

iv., 3

Bacon's insurrection in Virginia,

i., 112
Baldwin, Abraham, vi , 184
Baltic, flax-seed from, i., 26
Banks, essential to government,
iii., 167; examples in other
countries, i., 234; iii., 428; of
490

General Index

Banks (Continued)

North America, iii., no, 119,
140; State, no, 140. (See Na-
tional Bank and State names.)

Barbeyrac cited, iv., 316, 397; v.,
Barre, i., 132
Barthelemy, vi., 287
Beaumarchais (de), supplies ftir-

nishedby,iv., 430; vi., 322, 323
Beckwith, Major, iv., 296, 298, et

seq., 343

Bellegarde, Marquis, right to hold

Georgia land, v., 400
Benson, Egbert, ii., 139
Biddle, Charles, v., 4; vi., 351,
Blackstone cited, i., 62, 89, 146,
412; viii., 394

Bland, Colonel, i., 300

Blockade runners, v., 120

Boston, i., 37, 38, 133, 140, 142;
v., 370

Bournonville, secretary of French
legation, v., 67, 73

Bradford, Wm., ii., 179

Bradley, Major, vii., 162

Breckenridge in Whiskey Rebel-
lion, vi., 456

British, colonization, v., 336;
Courts of Admiralty, 369;
creditors, compensation stipu-
lated in Jay's treaty, 347.
350; debts, proposition for
sequestration of, 106; domin-
ions defined, i., 85 ; evacuation,
terms of, v., 146; Government,
fallacious comparison with U.
S., ii., 33; manufactures and
shipping, i., 144, 148; protec-
tion of industries, vi., 54; trade,
colonial and coasting, 32;
treaties, v., iSg, etseq.; vi., 72,
73; viii., 238; troops in Amer-
ica, iv., 313, 329, et seq.

Buel, Major, vii., 162

Building-tax, plan submitted to
Sec. of Treasury, 1797, iii., 312

Burbeck, Colonel, vii., 91

Burgoyne, General, vi., 206

Burke, Edmund, i., 132

Burlemaqui, i., 61; iv., 397, 448

Burlington, i., 276
Burr, Aaron, published Hamil-
ton's attack on Adams, vii.,
309; nomination for Gov. of

N. Y., 1804, viii., 373; op-
posed by Lansing, defeated
(note), personal character and
ancestry, 373

Bussy, French minister to Lon-
don, v., 464

Butler, Major, vi., 408

Butler, Col. R., letter from, i.,

304, 314
Bynkerschoeck cited, v., 29, 36,

41, 383, 41 1, 427, 429 ;vi., 87.131

Caesar, ii., 461; iii., 5; v., 77
Caldwell, John, deputy quarter-
master, iii., 23
Calhoun, J. C, free-trader, iv., 200
Callendar, James, accused of

slander, viii., 388
Calonne (de), M., French Minister

of Finance, iv., 421
"Camillus" papers: Defence of
Jay's treaty with England
, v., 189; state of affairs
in U. S., 198; English breaches
of treaty, 210; U. S. breaches,
224; objects to be gained, 238;
compromise, 241; Jay's bear-
ing in England, 242 ; surrender
of western posts, 251; reason
for delay in evacuation, 264;
indemnification, 273; citizen-
ship, 284; peace of Utrecht,
289; stipulations on trade and
commerce, 292; fur trade, 305,
320; Mississippi River, 327,
338; compensation to British
creditors, 347, 377; compen-
sation to U. S. citizens, 361;
seizure of U. S. vessels ,
372; law of nations on restitu-
tion, 382; commissioners ap-
pointed, 388; right of British
to hold land in U. S., 389;
authorities quoted, 395; pri-
vate debts in war, 404; opinion
of jurist on confiscation, 421;
necessity of protecting for-
eigners in commerce, 442 ; other
treaties, 456; articles relative
to intercourse, commerce, and
navigation^ 474 ; colonial laws in
wartime, vi., 4; Genet's negoti-
ations, 11; U. S. owes no debt
to France, iv., 478; articles on
trade , vi . , 2 1 , 5 9 ; import and ton -
nage duties, 27,61; navigation,

General Index
"Camillus " papers (Continued)
32, 59; East India trade, 39;
relations between U. S. and Gt.
Britain, 47 ; other commercial
treaties, 56; consuls, 76; law of
nations, 88 ; principles of armed
neutrality, 94, 100; contraband
articles, 114, 127; maritime
regulations, 140, 150; enlist-
ment in foreign service, 144;
reception of ships of war, 148;
foreign residents, 156; criminal
refugees, 158; duration of arti-
cles, 159; constitutionality of
treaty, 160; Gerry's objection
to Constitution, 184; consular
convention of France, 195;
authorship of papers, v., 189;
vi., 3, 140

Campo Formio, treaty of, vii., 91

Canada, boundaries of, v., 321,
322; communication with the
sea, 310; through Champlain,
331 ; criminal law, jury, i., 185,
186; French law in, 181; fur
trade, v., 273; legislature of, i.,
186; population of, 28; power
of Catholic Church in, 187, 191 ;
situation of, 37; tithes, 188,
viceroy of, viii., 55

Carriage tax, 1795, fragment of
brief, viii., 378

Cass, Major, vii., 162

Catherine of Russia, vi., loi

Cato attacks Jay's treaty, v., 273,
307; vi., 59

Chalmers's collection of treaties,
vi., 92

Champlain, Lake, i., 154; v., 331

Charlemagne, i., 385

Charles II., i., 106

Charleston, evacuation of, viii., 81

Charters, history of the various, i.,

93-113
Chauvelin, M., note to Lord Gren-

ville, iv., 403
Chester County, indictment in,

vi., 346
Childs' newspaper, i., 424
China, gold and silver in, iv., 18
Cincinnati, Society of the, viii., 63
" Civis to Mercator " : Letters on

the public debt , iii., 28
Clarkson, Mayor, vi., 351
Clavidre, Minister of Finance, iv,,
Clay compromise, iv., 200

Clingman connection with Rey-
nolds affair, vii., 369-413, 417-
Clinton, George, Governor of New
York (1787^, viii., 5; candidate
for re-election, 1789, ii., 103;
addresses against, 103-130; let-
ters of H. G. against, 133-175
{see also Addresses and Letters
of H. G.); candidate for N. Y.
governor , viii., 223; ad-
ministration of, 242 ; antipathy
to U. S. Constitution, 245 ; late
Governor of N. Y. , v.,
Clinton, Sir Henry, iv., 259

Cochran, Wm., vi., 377

Coinage and the Mint: Hamil-
ton's report to Jefferson on
establishment of mint ,
iv., 3; suggestion of examina-
tion of foreign coinage, 58 ; Ham-
ilton to Washington , 59

Coke, Lord, quoted, i., 68; v.,
319, 391; viii., 29, 395, 406, 407

Collectors of customs, instruc-
tions to, regarding foreign ves-
sels, v., 49

Colonies, controversy with Eng-
land, i., 7; independent, 64;
declared by James I. not sub-
ject to Parliament, 100; danger
of variance among, 129; pre-
parations for war, 167; act of
General Assembly , 172

Commercial relations with Great
Britain and France: Hamil-
ton's draft of Smith's speech,
, iv., 205, 222-224

Commercial treaties, vi., 72, 73

Commissioners of Trade and
Plantation, i., 107; appointed
by the States, 336, 339

Confederation, defects of, i., 215,
223, 262, 303, 343, 381; ii.,
Congress, Speeches and resolu-
tions in , revenue, i., 299;
State funds, 300; interest of
creditors, 303; mutiny of
troops, 303, 314, et seq.; resolu-
tion for general convention,
305; special session of, v., 54;
treaty papers, demand for, viii.,
161. {See United States.)
General Index

Connecticut, charter of, i., io6,
1 08; connection with sea, 276;
excise duties in, ii., 344; legisla-
ture of, 410 ; payments to U. S.,
211, 218; population in, 17;
delegates fearexpenseofU. S.,40

Continental Congress , at-
tacks on, i., 3; vindication of
(see ' ' F-ull Vindication ' ' and
"Farmer Refuted"), 3, 53

Continental conventions, i., 123;
money, 329; treasury, 222

Continentalist: Series of papers on
State matters , i., 243;
necessity for central power,
245; situation of U. S., 253;
evils to be apprehended, 254;
provision for revenue, 262, 263 ;
imports as a source of revenue,
272; necessity of central regu-
lation of trade, 277

Contraband articles, v., 169

Contracts, obligations of, ii., 332

Convening Congress: Hamilton
to Washington , viii., no

Convention of New York (see New
York), ii., 3 (see also Annapolis
and Federal)

Cook, Edward, petitioner from
Penn. concerning excise duty,

ii-, 394

Cornwallis, Lord, i., 255

Corsica, i., 163

Cortland, Lieutenant-Governor,
ii., no

Cotton, i., 157

Court-martials, vii., 114

Craig, in Penn. insurrection, vi.,
" Crassus, Lucius," Hamilton's sig-
nature, viii., 252

Croft, Sir James, case of, v., 319

Croswell, Harry, indicted for libel-
ling Jefferson, U. S. Pres.,
Hamilton's defence of (see also
Libel) , viii., 387; liberty
of press, 389; definitions of
libel, 394; common law and
U. S. Constitution, 421

Dallas, Alex. James, Secretary of

Penn., iv., 200; v., 8
Davis, Brigadier-General, vii., 8
Deane, Silas, v., 459
Debts, private, in time of war, v.,

145. 155. 162, 404

"Decius," misstatement of, on Jay
treaty, v., 307, 401

Declaration of Independence, ii.,
De la Foret, M., iv., 365

Delaware, commissioners to An-
napolis Convention, i., 336;
member from, in convention,
413-415; number of repre-
sentatives, ii., 17, 23; pay-
ments to U. S., 211; river, i.,
276; v., 3

Democrats, viii., 374

Denmark, i., 231; iii., 322; v.,
201, 365

" Detector" : Answer to "X. Y. Z."
on French affairs , vi.,
De Wolf, G., iii., 84

Dollars, value of, iv., 7, et seq.

Dorchester, Lord (Sir Guy Carle-
ton), iv., 296, 299, et seq., 313,
Douglass quoted, v., 29

Doyer, Hendrick, ii., 385

Drapier's letter, style compared
to Hamilton's, i., 33

Duane, James, letter to, i., 213;
member of committee, 239

Dumourier, vi., 287

Dunlap, Wm., vii., 302

Dunmore, Lord, iv., 259

Du Plaine, M., French Consul at
Boston, v., 58

Durival, M., letter on French pay-
ments, iv., 428

Dutch company, proposition to
buy U. S. paper, iv., 421

Dutch republics, ii., 10

Dutchess Coiuity, member from
(Smith), ii., 30, 34

Duties, general and special (sec
Taxation), i., 126, 127; effect
of, on commerce, 279; on im-
ports, communication to Con-
gress , ii., 291; on vessels
(see Improvement of revenue),
v., 165

Duties on imports, operation of
act, communication to Congress
, ii., 291

East India, goods in Canada, v.,
311; U. S. trade with, 311

East India Company, i., 38, 47,
132, 204

General Index
Egg Harbor, i., 276

Election addresses (see Addresses) ,
ii., 103

Elections, disadvantage of fre-
quent, i., 407

Electors, appointment of, left to
State legislatures, ii., 168

Elizabeth, charters given by, i.,93

Ellery, Captain, vii., 218

Elliot's Debates, ii., 39, 59, 73, 74,
Ellsworth, Oliver, i., 300, 314, 318

Emigrants from Catholic coun-
tries, i., 195

Emmett, act drawn up by, in
1691, i., 172

England, restricts exportations of
com to France , iv., 401;
withdraws her minister, 400;
dismissal of French minister,
407. (See Great Britain.)

English (see British)

English common law, v., 429; re-
publican societies, iv., 402

Enlistment of foreign citizens, iv.,
Ephori, check on Senate in
Sparta, ii., 22

Esopus, biu-ning of, ii., 137

Excise laws (see Taxation and
Whiskey Rebellion)

Explanation of treasury expendi-
tures, viii., 122

' ' Fact ' ' : article in National Gazette
, defence of funding pub-
lic debt, iii., 40

"Farmer Refuted": Advertise-
ment, i., 53; second paper in
defence of Congress , 55;
allegiance owed to British king,
67; Parliament, 75; charters of
colonies, 92, 100, 104; stamp
act and revenue act, 131;
British national debt, 146; re-
sources and imports of America,
157, 161; imports from France
and Holland, 162

Fauchet, successor to Genet, vi.,
14, 212

Faulkner, William, house of, vi.,

Fay, of Vermont, viii., 53
Federal Convention , pro-
positions for a constitution of
government, i., 347; brief of

speech on plan, 370; govern-
ment, paper on, 335
Federalist, quoted, vi., 186
Federalist party, i., 243; v., 98;
vii., 318; viii., 224, 229, 246,
Fenno, editor of Gazette of United
States, v., 74; vi., 32; vii., 230
Finance, ii., 227; papers on (see
Additional Supplies for 1792,
Arrears of Pay, Building Tax,
Civis, Coinage and the Mint,
Ftinding System, Hamilton's
Writings, Import Duty, Im-
provement of Revenue, Loans,
National Bank, Public Credit,
Public Debt, Taxation, Vindi-
cation of Funding System)
Finance under Confederation, i.,

225, 231, 254; plans for, 301
Findlay, James, vi., 375
Fisheries, iv., 67, 205
Fitzsimmons, Mr., ii., 179
Florida, i., 26; iv., 326, 360
Foreign fimd, bills upon, iii., 171
Foreign influence, danger of, to a

republic, iv., 481
Foreign policy, v., 348; vi., 201
Foreign relations: Speech on the
treaty of Paris , iv., 227;
letters from "Phocion," discus-
sion of treaty with England
, 230; right of Tories to
hold land in the U. S., 231;
danger of general descriptions,
233; position of Tory citizens
in N. Y., 236; alienism of in-
habitants of N. Y., southern
district, 266; Gt. Britain
forced to make peace with
U. S., 281; treaty of Paris,
speech on, in N. Y. Legislature
, 291
Foreigners, danger of investment

in U. S. funds, viii., 454
Fort Fayette, troops at, vii., 119,
122; Wayne, 119, 122; Massac,
119, 122; Knox, 119, 123;
Pickering, 119, 123; Adams,
Loftus Height, 119, 123; Stod-
dard, 119, 123, 165; Niagara,
120; Presque Isle, 125
Fort Harman, treaty of, iv., 299
Fort Montgomery, ii., 137
Fox, Charles James, iv., 343; bill
of libel, viii., 416
General Index

Fox, Joseph, deputy; marshal of
Penn., report of, vi., 362

France, aid in Am. Revolution, iv.,
359; vi., 206; action on private
debts, v., 440; and Am.
colonies , i., 146, et seq.,
265, 270, 386; annexation of
territory, iv., 405, 453, et seq.;
attacks British commerce, vi.,
229; bills on, ii., 356; coinage
in, iv., 32; colonial policy of,
vi., 3; consular convention of,
195; debt of, iii., 322; debt
of U. S. to, 90, 103, 106,
128, 163, 169; iv., 395; v.,
62; efforts to control U. S.
election, vi., 206; endeavors to
excite revolution in Eng., 207,
281; excesses of, v., 103; ex-
ecutive council charges to
Genet, vi., 15, et seq.; and Gt.
Britain, iv., 400; and Holland,
399; ingratitude towards, 460;
national convention, 401, et
seq.; position of, in 1793, 466;
relations with European nations,
vi., 269; rate of exchange, iv.,
310; trade with, 346, 358;
tables of U. S. commerce with,
222-224; treaties of U. S. with,
v., 14, 385, 456; war with Spain
and Portugal, iv., 407; viola-
tion of neutrality, vi., 249-253;
wealth of, iii., 345

France, papers on {see "America-
nus," "Answer," " Detector,"
Foreign Relations, France,
French, "No Jacobin," " Paci-
ficus," "Pericles," "Stand,"
Warning)

Franklin, Benjamin, iv., 349, 429;
v., 460, 478; ix., 46

Franklin, new State of, ii., 16

Fraunces, A. G., vii., 376

Frederick the Great, v., 439

Freneau, Philip, iii., 28; vii.,
French, affairs in 1793 (Cabinet
opinion on), iv., 369; faction,
paper on France , vi.,
328; king, suspension of, iv.,
363, 370; laws revised in Can-
ada, i., 183; privateers, iv.,
414; vi., 217; Revolution, frag-
ment on, viii., 425; opinion on,
v., 75; uncertainty of success,

iv., 386; 'an offensive war, 397;
vessels, 346; sympathizers in
U. S. Rev., vi., 328

" Full Vindication," papers in de-
fence of Congress , i., 3;
attacks on Congress by West-
chester Farmer (Dr. Seabury),
5, 20, 39, 43; American re-
sources, 18; address to N. Y.
farmers, 33

Funding system, ii., 443, 444;
vindication of , iii., 3;
defended, viii., 232, 240; de-
fence of , note, 430; gov-
ernment debts after Revolu-
tion, 430; advantages of fund-
ing, 450; assumption of State
debts, 467; Hamilton's plan,
474; federal taxation essential,
Ftmds, investment of, iii., 172, et
seq.

Fur trade, v., 309

Gallatin, Albert, report on na-
tional bank (181 1), iii., 493;
Sec. of Treasury, viii., 288

Gates, General, misfortune of,
viii., 69

Gazette of United States, letters in,
iv., 432

General Advertiser, v., 17

Genet, M. Edm. Charles, ap-
pointed minister to U. S.. iv.,
479; arrival of, 408, et seq.; be-
havior, v., 45; declaration to
Dallas, 8; excitement regard-
ing, iv., 432; irregular meas-
ures, v., 70; letters, report on,
62; proposes treaty with U. S.,
vi., 11; refuses to promise
about privateers, v., 3; refer-
ence to affair of, vi., 102, 103,
210, 291; threatens appeal to
people of U. S., v., 17

Genoa, vi., 240, 278

Georgia, i., 26, 336; ii., 34; debt
of, viii., 482, et seq.; ix., 16;
laws on money, v., 350; pay-
ments to U. S,, ii., 211; tax-
ation in, iii., ^52

German, Diet, 1., 252, 255, 382,
394, 397; Confederacy, lesson,
of, 385; ii., 10; elections in,

i-, 392
Germanic corps, i., 218

General Index
Gerry, Elbridge, member of Con-
gress, ii., 463; moves amend-
ments to U. S. Constitution, i.,
419; refuses to sign Constitu-
tion, 421 ; vi., 184

Giles, tool of Madison and Jeffer-
son, iii., 62; viii., 353

Gilleland, James, ix., 44

Glaubeck (de), Baron, pension of,
vii., 376

Gloucester, i., 276

Gore, letter to Lear, v., 58

Government and the Constitution,
letter to James Duane ,
i., 213; result of letter, 239

Grain, consumption of, in
America, i., 153

Grand, Ferdinand, iv., 429

Grange, an English vessel, v., 19

Graves, Rufus, vii., 91

Great Britain, action on private
debt, v., 440; aggressions of,
vi., 246; coinage in, iv., 31;
colonial system of, v., 292; vi.,
4; debt of, i., 146; iii., 322;
detention of U. S. posts, viii.,
376; disadvantage in conquer-
ing America, i., 165; excivSe
duties in, ii., 344; extent and
population of, v., 332; interest
in America, 90; instructions to
ships of war, 59; Jay treaty
with U. S. {see Camillus) ; ju-
diciary of, viii., 360; national
bank of, iii., 362; Parliament
of, i., 4, et seq., 119, et seq., 389;
policy in Canada, 195; princi-
ples of navigation act, vi., 25;
privateers of , v. , 3 7 8 ; resources,
85; state of, iv., 246, 281 ; steps
to satisfy U. S., v.j 366; system
of credit, viii., 446; trade with
America, i., 116, et seq.; iv.,
220; treaty with France ,
vi., 92, 142; with other coun-
tries, v., 454, 462; vi., 92;
with U. S. {see Camillus and
Message), viii., 155, 161; and
Vermont, 53, et seq.; violation
of neutral rights, vi., 250; and
West Indies, i., 156

Greece, leagues among republics
of, i,, 217; commonwealth of,
246; Amphictyonic Council of,
251, et seq.; not an example for
U. S., 282

Greene, Major-General, eulogium
on, delivered before the Society
of the Cincinnati , viii.,

63 .

Grenville, Lord, iv., 404; v., 136,
Grotius, quoted, i., 61; v., 383,

426; vi., 87, 117, 132
Guilder, value of a, iii., 108
Guildford Court-House, battle of,

viii., 75, etseq.

H. G., letters of, on Clinton, ii.,

133-175
Habeas Corpus Act, i., 72
Hait, Captain, iv., 299
Haldimand, General, viii., 53
Halloway on libel, viii., 405
Hamilton, Colonel, implicated in
Whiskey Rebellion, vi., 457, 458
Hamilton, Alexander, chronology,
i., xvii. ; drafts of Washington's
speeches {see Washington) ; in-
fluence on establishment of
gov., 239; opposed to State
sovereignty, 381; plan for
national bank adopted, iii., 493 ;
views on protection, iv., 67;
effect on U. S. tariff, note, 198.
{Writings arranged chronologi-
cally, private correspondence ex-
cepted): 1774 (in college). Vin-
dication of Congress, i., 3 ; 1775,
"Farmer Refuted," 55; Quebec
bill, 181; 1780 (Washing-
ton's aide-de-camp), Letters on
government, 213; letter on
national bank, iii., 319; 1781
(quarrel with Washington) ,
Papers on system of gov., the
Continentalist, i., 243; letter on
national bank, iii., 342; 1782
(admitted to N. Y. bar, ap-
pointed Receiver of Taxes, en-
tered Continental Congress) ,
Resolutions in N, Y. legislature
for convention of States, i., 291 ;
report on impost duty, ii., 179;
1783 (in Congress), Speeches on
revenue, i., 299; inefficacy of
State funds, 300; public credit,
301; appropriation of impost
to army, 302; mutiny of
troops, 303, 314, 318; resolu-
tions for general convention,
305 ; speech on treaty of Paris,
General Index

Hamilton, Alexander (Continued)
iv., 227; report to Congress on
military peace establishment,
vi., 463; 1784 (in private life
and practice), "Phocion" let-
ters on treaty with England, iv.,
230; 1786 (delegate to Annapo-
lis, elected to N. Y. legislature).
Address at Annapolis, i., 335;
order of Cincinnati, viii., 3, 63;
1787 (member of N. Y. legisla-
ture and delegate to federal
convention) , Resolutions and
speeches in N. Y. leg., i., 343;
ii., 192; iv., 291; viii., 5-42;
proposition for Constitution, i.,
347; draft of, 350; speeches on
gov., 381; 1788 (delegate to
N. Y. con.), Speech on Constitu-
tion, ii., 3; draft of proposed
ratification, 95; 1789 (ap-
pointed Sec. of Treasury), Ad-
dresses on election of N. Y.
governor, ii., 103, 113; letters
of H. G. on Clinton as governor,
133-175; eulogium on Maj.-
Gen. Greene, viii., 63; to Wm.
Short, at Paris, iv., 294; 1790
(Sec. of Treasury), Reports, ii.,
227,291; viii., 87; to Washing-
ton, on back pay to army, ii.,
327; march of foreign troops
through U. S., iv., 341; on
Morris's mission, 297, 299; to
Goodhue, on U. S. fisheries, 67;
to Wm. Short, on loans, 302;
1 791 (Sec. of Treasury), Vindi-
cation of funding system, iii., 3 ;
bank of U. S., 445 ; reports and
letters on mint, iv., 3, 59; on
manufactures, 70; to Jefferson,
on French treaty, 345, 347,
351 > 352; to Washington, on
French payments, 354; 1792
(Jefferson's hostility to Hamil-
ton), Reports as Sec. of Treas.,
ii-. 353. 368, 408, 423, 426; iii.,
24, 28, 40, 46; to Washington
on apportionment of repre-
sentations, viii., 96; on Indian
affairs, 100; explaining Treas-
ury management, ii., 425; 1793
(war between France and Eng-
land), Loans, reports to House
of Rep., iii., 61, 82, 126, 137,
139, 178; defence of Sec. of

Treas., 178; to Washington on
relations with France, iv., 369,
418; v., 61, 62; reception of
French minister, iv, 408, 426;
convening Congress, viii., no;
Indian affairs, 109; to Jefferson
on Henfield's sentence, iv., 417 ;
on contracts with France, 428;
on neutrality laws, v., 12;
privateers, 46, 58; letters on
Genet, " Pacificus," iv,, 432-
489; "No Jacobin," v., 17-49;
instructions to customs collec-
tors, 49; 1794 (Jay treaty,
Whiskey Rebellion), Loans, re-
ports to House of Rep., iii., 179,
180, 185, 187; papers on rela-
tions with France, v., 74, 86;
to Washington on Treasury
affairs, iii., 183, 190, 194; on
possible war with Great Britain,
v., 97; Jay treaty, 115, 121,
123, 129, 138; captured vessels,
131-133; to Randolph, Secre-
tary of State, 119, 135, 136;
letters and papers on Whiskey
Rebellion, vi., 339-460; resigna-
tion, iii., 199; 1795 (resigns
Sec. of Treas. and resumes law
practice). Reports as Sec. of
Treas., 199, 200, 259, 301;
to Washington on Jay treaty,
v., 138; defence of Jay treaty,
"Horatius," 181; "Camillus,"
189-vi., 197; explanation of
Treas. methods, viii., 122; on
carriage tax, 378; defence of
the funding system, 429; 1796
(in private life), Papers on
France, vi., 206, 215; 1797,
Papers on France, 229-259;
Reynolds pamphlet, defence of
himself, vii., 369; 1798 (ap-
pointed Inspector-General of
Army), Papers on France, vi.,
2 5 9-3 1 8 ; military matters,
483-vii., 45; 1799 (Washing-
ton's death), On military
matters, 45-194; paper on
war in Europe, vi., 330; alle-
gorical device, 332; 1800 (re-
tires from army), Letters and
papers on military matters,
vii., 196-224; paper on John
Adams, 309; letters to John
Adams, 364, 365

General Index
Hamilton, J. C, History of the Re-
public, i., 301; vi., 140

Hammond, letter from, on com-
pensation to vessels, v., 131

Hand, Gen. Edw., vi., 351

Harper in N. Y. Assembly, viii.,
18, 21

Harrison, Col. R. H., vii., no

Heinecius, quoted, vi., 87, 117,131

Helvetic league, i., 252

' ' Helvidius, ' ' letter signed, iv. , 43 2

Henfield, Gideon, case of, iv., 418;
v., 56

Henry, Patrick, vii., 255

Heth, William, balance of U. S.
money in hands of, iii., 172

High sea, limits of, v., 27

Highways, viii., 262

Hill, coast siu-vey, vii., 44

Hobbes, i., 61

Holcroff, John, vi., 459

Holland, i., 26, 152, 169, 259; iv.,
310, 483; v., 259; vi., 278; and
her colonies, v., 485; debt to,
iii., 197; interest in America,
v., 90; loans from, iii., 90;
national debt of, ii., 428, 442,
449 {see also United Nether-
lands); iv., 399; v., 53

Holt, Lord, on libel, viii., 403, 405,
Holt's Journal, i., 181, 199

Homes, H. A., State Librarian of
N. Y., ii., 113

Hoops, Major, vi., 486

" Horatius" on Jay treaty, v., 181

House of Representatives, order
of, ii., 337; resolution of, 227.
{See Congress and United
States.)

Howe, Major-General, i., 314

Howell, member from R. I., vii.,
Hubbard, banker, iv., 302
Hudson Bay territories, boun-
daries of, v., 321
Hudson River, foreign vessels not
allowed above New York, v.,
Hume, quoted, i., 73, 81, 269, 409;

iii., 346
Hunt, Richard, sentence of, vii.,

76, 100
Hunter, Governor, vii., 221
Huntingdon, General, vii., 47
Hylton vs. United States, viii., 378

VOL. X.— 32.

Ignardi, consul at Cadiz, vi., 231
Import duty {see Taxation), ii.,

291; v., 129
Imports, registry of, ii., 306
Impost duty, report on, ii., 17^;
eligible mode of taxation, 1.,
271; not unfavorable to com-
merce, ii., 189; officers for col-
lecting, 182; product of, 214;
rate of, 186. {See Taxation.)
Improvement of revenue, com-
munication to Congress ,
iii., 301
Independence of Vermont {see

Vermont), viii., 42
Indian affairs, viii., 100, 154
Indians, attack of, threatened,
vi., 408; depredations of, iv.,
298; liberty to trade, v., 289;
war with, iii., 46, 105
Industry and commerce {see also
Taxation) : fisheries, Hamilton
to Goodhue , iv., 67;
manufactures, report to Con-
gress , expediency of
protection, 70; methods of
protection, 143; articles to be
protected specified, 164
Inspectors of customs, ii., 308, 323
Iredell, James, associate justice,

v., 12
Ireland, i., 23, 151
Italy, commerce of, vi., 86

Jackson, Major, instructions to, i.,
317; vii., 198

Jackson, Andrew, attack on na-
tional bank , iii., 494

Jacobin club in Paris, iv., 372

James I., charters given by, i., 94

Jane of Dublin, vessel taken by
French privateer, v., 380

Jay, John, character of mission to
England, iv., 229; v., 121, 134,
138, 189; vii., 359; treaty of
{see Camillus)

Jefferson, Thomas, iii., 28, 191;
iv., 302; v., 460, 478; vi., 106;
viii., 232, 237 ; answer to Belle-
garde and Meziere case, v., 400;
arr^t of, iv., 219; attacked by
Hamilton , vii., 229;
communication with Fraunces,
376; commercial report, v.,
74; efforts to discredit Hamil-
ton, iii., 62; free trader, iv..
General Index

Jefferson (Continued)

199; on Genet, 421, 425; v.,
54; vi., 13; Jay treaty, v., 387;
message to Congress ex-
amined, viii., 246; letter to
Hammond, v., 379; on Rey-
nolds, vii., 471; trade with
Spain, iv., 358; retires to
Monticello, v., 119

Jenkins, Leoline, life and papers,
v., 29, 41, 43

Johnson, Robert, assault on, vi.,
Johnston, Governor, i., 202

Jones in N. Y. Assembly, viii., 18,
19, 22, 25, 26

Joseph, Emperor, and the Nether-
lands, iv., 399

"Juba," v., 18

Kent, Duke of, visit to America,

vii., 221
Kentucky, ii., 16, 400; viii., 107
Kiddoe, James, vi., 378
King, Charles I., i., 100, 104, 105;
Charles II., bill framed by, 112 ;
makes Carolina a principality,
109; James's answer to Parlia-
ment, 100; council at Ply-
mouth, 103; arbitrary power
of, in Canada, 186; William,
no; of Prussia, ii., 11
King, Rufus, author of eight

"Camillus" papers, v., 476
King vs. Home, viii., 414
King vs. Tutchin, viii., 414
Kirkpatrick, Major, vi., 383
Knox, Maj.-Gen., vi.,484; viii., 96
Knyphausen at Springfield, viii.,
La Fayette, Marquis, iv., 296, 472
Lake of the Woods, v., 340
Lancaster, meeting at, i., 303,

^ 315-317

Lands, disposal of unoccupied, i.,
Lansdowne, Lord, on libel, viii.,
Lansing refuses to sign U. S. Con-
stitution, i., 421

Lansing or Burr, viii., 373; sup-

Sort of Lansing in election for
\. Y. governor , Burr
democrat from policy, 374;
effect of election by aid of

Federalists, 374; Lansing's per-
sonal character, 376
Laurens, case of, vi., 254 <ioS'-6

Law, John, Mississippi scheme, i.,

233; iii-, 332.

Law briefs, validity of British de-
tention of U. S. Western posts,
viii., 376

Lear, Mr., iii., 192; viii., 150

Ledyard, Isaac, letter of, iv., 250

Lee, on captures, v., 29

Lee, Arthur, i., 300; v., 459

Leeds, Duke of, relations with the
Pinckneys, vii., 323

Le Grand, Monsieur, banker, ii.,
Lennox, Major, vi., 351, 352
Lewis, Morgan, elected governor

of N. Y. note, viii., 373
Lexington, Greene at, viii., 66
Libel, law of (see Croswell) , brief in

Croswell case , viii., 383;

Hamilton's speech on, 387;

definitions of, 394; province of

judge and jury in, 397
Little Democrat, privateer, v., 47,

Little Sarah, French privateer, v.,

^ 3. 5. 39

Loans, i., 265; (i) report to Con-
gress , U. S. finances, ii.,
353; money owed to foreign
officers, 365; funding of West-
em lands, 366; resolutions
on, in Congress , report of
Sec. of Treas., iii., 61; re-
sponsibility of Sec, 83; Dutch
loan, Wm. Short, 83, 130; pay-
ments to France, 85; terms of
foreign loans, 98 ; documents
of Sec. of Treasury, 126; acts of
Washington relative to Treas-
ury, 129, 130; report to
Congress , 139; rela-
tions between banks and U. S.
Treasury, 140, 159; foreign and
domestic loans, 138, 148, 154;
import duties, 165; sinking
fund, 170; "Observer's"
defence of Sec. of Treas., 178;
Hamilton's request for investi-
gation, 179; report on request,
180; Hamilton to Washington
on loans, 183, 190, 194; Hamil-
ton to Congress, 185, 187; acts
of legislature regarding, iv., 302

General Index
Local governments, ii., 207
Locke, John, i,, 61
Loftus Height, vii., 154, 163
London, N. Y. Packet Company,

i-. 243
Loughborough, Lord, on libel,

viii., 396, 400, 415
Louis XIV., edicts of, i., 270
Louis XVL, iv., 385, 474
Louisiana, iv.. 199, 326; vi., 284
Lovely Lass, ship captured by-
French privateer, v., 380
Lynde, Cornelius, vii., 91
Lyons, Lord, asked permission to
march troops through Maine,
iv., 3^3

McCulloch, John, vi., 382

McDougall, General, i., 226

McHenry, Sec. of War, letters to
(see Military papers), vi., 483;
dismissed by Adams, vii., 349

McPherson, General, vii., 45

Madeira wine, i., 43

Madison, James, ii., 179, 463, 469,
iii., 191; iv., 199; vi., 184; vii.,
255; viii., 232, 237; aid to
Freneau, vii., 237 ; answers " Pa-
cificus," iv., 432; author of
Federalist, viii., 337; debates,
i., 299; efforts to discredit
Hamilton, iii., 62; reports, i.,
370, 393, 404, e^ 5^9-; resolu-
tions in Congress, iv., 205, 220;
v., 74

Magna Charta, i., 69, 112

Malmedi, ix., 63

Malsherbes, M. de, counsel of
French king, iv., 371

Mansfield, Lord, on libel, viii.,
392, 399, 408, 425

Manufactures, encouragement of,
in U. S. (see Industry and Com-
merce, also Taxation), iv., 70-
Marat, fate of, v., 76

Marblehead, i., 168

Marius, v., 77

Marshy Lake, v., 340

Martin, quoted, v., 28

Martin, Luther, of Maryland, i.,
Maryland, bank of, iii., 141;
charter of, i., 100, 104; com-
missioners to Annapolis con-
vention, 336; member from,

390; representatives from, ii.,
17; legislature, 53; payments
to U. S. Treasury, 211

Mason, Col. Geo., ii., 426; refused
to sign Constitution, vi., 184

Massachusetts, i., 124, 336, 384;
Assembly of, ii., i6; bank of, iii.,
141; charter of, i., 100, no;
debt of, ii., 440; viii., 482, 485;
excise duties in, ii., 344; pay-
ments to United States Treas-
■ury, 211, 215; taxation in, iii.,
352; viii., 487

Massachusetts Bay, petition of,
i., 9

Maury, Isaac, v., 59

Mediterranean, i., 146, 150

"Mentor," answer to " Phocion,"
iv., 250

Mercator, letters of Hamilton to,
iii., 28

Mercer, John Francis, dread of
coalition between France and
England, iv., 228

Merchandise, ii., 306, 315

Meredith, Samuel, iii., 117

Mexican War, iv.. 201

Meziere, Chevalier, right to hold
Georgia land, v., 400

Mifflin, governor of Pennsylvania
, vi., 394, 427; vii., 353

Military defences, viii., 261

Military papers: Military peace
establishment (note), vi., 463;
detailed plan for , 467-
472; comments on plan, 472-
482; letters on military mat-
ters (Hamilton, Inspector and
Major- General) : To McHenry,
Sec. of War , vi., 483,
485; vii., 3, 42, 44, 47, 50;
53. 58, 59. 62, 69, 76, 77,
80, 85, 87, 88, 94, 95. 97. 98,
100, 103, 105, 107, III, 113,
125, 134, 141, 144, 149, 170,
179, 187-189, 194; 197,
203, 206, 208, 215, 221, 224;
Adams, John , 216; Jay,
John , vi., 486; De No-
ailles , vii., 207, 212;
Gibbs, Caleb , 159; Gunn
, 41, 45; Hamtranck
, 82, 89; Harrison, Col.
R. H. , no; Moore, Col.
, 140, 147, 148; Pinckneyj
Gen. , 190, 213; Rivardi
General Index

Military papers (Continued)

, 221; Smith, Col. ,
170; 196, 211; Stevens,
Col. , 86; Stoddert, Sec.
of Navy , 102; Swan,
Caleb , 218; Washing-
ton , vi., 486;
vii., 67, 77, 90, 92, 117, 174;
Wilkinson , 64, 67, 75,
154; circulars, 61, 83, 102, iii,

116; to ^ — , 92; regtila-

tions respecting supplies and
extra expense, 135; paper on
military step, 200
Miller, Colonel Henry, vi., 351
Minerva, "Camillus" papers pub-
lished in, vi., 32
Mississippi, i., 26, et seq., 155;
navigation of, iv., 334; v., 127",
negotiations on, iv., 359; posi-
tion of, v., 338; trade on, 325
Molasses, price of, ii., 384
Monarchy, dangers of, in United

States, v., 91
Monmouth, battle of, viii., 69
Monroe, James, connection with
Reynolds affair, vii., 369, 397;
documents from, on Reynolds
affair, 413, 417, 452, 455. 462,
464, 473, 475. 477 ^ .,
Montague, James, Hamilton s

nom-de-plume, iii., 341
Montesquieu, i., 61, 185, 374
Montgomery County, ii., 35
Monticello, Jefferson retires to, v.,

"9 . , .

Montmonn, quoted, vi., 16
Montreal, navigation to, from

Quebec, v., 299
Morgan, General, viii,, 73, ^t seq.
Morocco, Emperor of, viii., 154
Morris, Chief-Justice, ii., no
Morris, Gouverneur, ii., 289, 426;

iii., 81, 128; iv.,343; v., 56,60;

vi., 348
Morris, Robert, i., 226, 239, 266;

iii., 319
Moustier, Count de, iv., 296
Muhlenberg, F. A., connection

with Reynolds affair, vii., 369,

397, 413; documents from, on

Reynolds affair, 412, 417, 452,

453. 455
Murray nommated envoy to

France, vii., 337

Mutiny of troops, i., 303, 314

National bank, necessity of, ii.,
314; proposed, i., 267; estab-
lished , iii., 493; subse-
quent history of, 493, 494; pre-
sent system, 495

National bank, papers on: (i)
Hamilton to Robert Morris
, critical position of gov-
ernment, iii., 319; necessity for
a foreign loan, 325. To
Robert Morris , 342;
Morris, appointment, 343; pro-
portion of cash to revenue,
347; taxes of year 1780, 354;
annual expense of civil and
military establishments, 355;
institution of national bank,
360; plan for bank submitted,
367; solvency of States, 385.

ToCongress(i79o),national
banks, 388 ; answer to charge of
usury, 397; banks in U. S., 415;
presidents of banks in foreign
cities, 428; plan for national
bank of U. S. submitted, 431.

Washington to Hamilton,
on constitutionality of national
bank, 443. Hamilton to
Washington , constitu-
tionality of national bank, 445

National credit must be retrieved,
ii., 231

National Gazette, iii., 28; v., 18;
vii., 229, 236, 239

Naturalization of foreigners, viii.,
Naughton, Sir Robert, protects
Puritans, i., loi

Neckar, M., praises British Con-
stitution, i., 389 '.:

Negroes, representation for, ii., 14

Netherlands {see Holland), i., 218;

iv., 399
Neutral nation, power to trade,

iv., 416
Neutrality, definition of, iv,, 434
Neville, General, vi., 363
Neville, Colonel Presley, vi., 385,
New England, settlement of, 1.,

loi; intolerance of, 196; pro-
tection in, iv,, 200
New Hampshire, i., 336; ii., 7, 40,

359; viii., 48
New Jersey, i., 336, 381, 385; n.,

212, 218; v., 349

General Index
New London, i., 276

Newspaper letters on public mat-
ters, i., 141

Newton, Sir Isaac, estimate of
proportion between gold and
silver, iv., 20

New York, Convention of, on U.
S. Constitution , ii., 3;
speech on compromises of Con-
stitution, radical defects of
Confederation, 3 ; confederacies
liable to wars, 10; State in-
terests, 12; check on increase
of representation, 19; advan-
tages of large districts of elec-
tion, 26; powers of national
government and State legisla-
tion, 34; speech on U. S.
Senate , 40; stability-
essential to government, 41;
relation between senators and
State legislatures, 48 ; danger
of factions, State of Rhode
Island, 53 ; ratio of representa-
tion, 62; leading objects of
federal government, 63 ; State
governments, 68 ; brief of argu-
ment on U. S. Constitution, 91

New York, foreign vessels in, v.,
297; governor of, ii., 103; v.,
194; viii., 242; legislature,
speeches in, i., 291, 343 ; iv., 291 ;
viii., 5, 42; payments to U. S.
Treasury, ii., 211; State debt,
215; iii., 21; southern dis-
trict of, iv., 254; Tories in, 230,
et seq.; and Vermont, viii., 42,
et seq.

Nichols, Colonel Francis, vi., 351,
"No Jacobin" articles by Hamil-
ton in Daily Advertiser ,
on career of Genet, minister
from France, in U. S., v., 17

North Carolina, i., 336; ii., 7; vi.,
342; currency of, ii., 211, 215,
216; laws on money, v., 350;
officers of, ii., 328; opposition
to excise duties, vi., 339, et seq.

Oaths, dangers of, ii., 343
"Observer," reply to Mr. Find-
ley's accusations, iii., 177
Officers on half-pay, i., 228
Ohio River, importance of, vii.,
157, 166

Osgood, Mr., iv., 229
Otto, Mr., iv., 422

"Pacificus," letters of Hamilton
in U. S. Gazette , defence
of neutrality proclamation, iv.,
432; power of President to
issue it, 439; proclamation in-
consistent with French treaty,
445; French aggressions, 450;
France engaged in war with all
Europe, 456; U. S. debt to
France, 460; state of French
affairs, U. S. influence, 465;
Louis XVI. and France, 472;
necessity for U. S. to avoid war,
484; papers under Hamilton's
signature, vii., 369

Pennsylvania, affairs in, vi., 394,
429; commerce of, i., 276;
compared with N. C, 386; con-
tribution to government, ii., 7;
excise duties in, 344; vi., 339, et
seq.; Farmer, i., 126; insur-
rection (see Whiskey Rebellion) ,
vii., 351; payments to U. S.
Treasury, ii., 211, 218

Pereizius, viii., 403

" Pericles," paper by Hamilton on
cession of Louisiana to France,

vi., 333

Peters, Richard, Judge, commit-
tee concerning mutiny, i., 314;
vi., 448

Petition presented by officers to
Washington, asking for back
pay, ii., 327

Petitions, futility of, i., 9-14;
from London and Massachu-
setts, 9, 10; Continental Con-
gress, 29

Philadelphia, charter, i., no;
mutiny at, 303; convention at,
339; ii., 95", yellow fever in,
viii., no

Philip of Macedon, i., 385; ii., 10

"Phocion," letters on relations
with England , iv., 230;
disfranchisement of tories, 230;
dangers of disqualifications,
247 ; inhabitants of southern
N. Y., 254; British subjects,
258; breaches of treaty, 264;
danger of British supremacy in
America absurd, 281; effect of
letters, 250

C> y>w*'^'x-s^

)C w^o
General Index

Phocian war, i., 385

Pichegru, vi., 287

Pinckney, Charles, vii., 325

Pinckney, General Charles Cotes-
worth, vii., 6, 8, 65, et seq., 159,
174, 187, 213, 309, 323, 329, 362

Pinckney, Thomas, v., 59; vii.,
318, et seq., 362

Pitt, William, i., 128

Pittsburgh, meeting in, vi., 341

Pittsburgh Gazette, vi., 359, 368,
Platasans, incident of, iv., 238

Plymouth, original constitution
of, i., 102

Poland, i., 392; iv., 241; v., 90;
vi., 216

Portugal, i., 145, 147; iv., 358,
407; v., 485; vi., 148, 283, 320

Postlethwait quoted, i., 144, 148

Postmaster-General, new plan, ii.,
Presbyterians, i., 190

Presidential etiquette, Hamilton
to Washington , Wash-
ington to Hamilton in reply,
viii., 87

Price, Dr., quoted, iii., 346

Prince William Henry, vessel
taken by French privateer, v.,
Prince's Bay, i., 276

Princeton, Congress at, i., 323

Privateering, Cabinet meeting on,
v., 3

Privateers, v., $, et seq., 19, 380;
vi., 140

Proclamation of neutrality, ob-
jections to, iv., 433, et seq.

Property tax contrary to princi-
ples of public credit, ii., 353

Providence, Bank of, iii., 141

Prussia, i., 231 ; iii., 322; iv.,482;

v., 458
Public credit {see also Loans), i.,
301 ; report on, by Hamilton as
Sec. of Treasury , ii.,
227; nature of U. S. debt, 231;
classes of creditors, 236; rates
of interest, 257, 258; proposi-
tion for loan, 260; interest to
be paid from duties, 272; as-
sumption of State debts, 286;
importance of this report, 289;
schedules, 290; report to Con-
gress , deficit for 1791,

337; plan of supplying deficit,
337; duty on spirits, 338; ex-
cise versus other duties, 340;
to Supervisors of Boston on
inspection of U. S. Treasiury,
352; report to Senate ,
iii., 199 ; plan for redemption of
debt, 201; duties, 202, et seq.;
Bank of U. S., 203 ; U. S. Post-
Office, 207 ; provisions for fimd-
ing debt, 211; application of
revenues, 216; proceeds of
Western lands, 219; loans, 221;
propositions for completing sys-
tem of public credit, 237; dis-
cussion of propositions, 247

Public debt (see Public credit),
iii., 28; v., 419; viii., 235, 239;
report of Sec. of Treasury to
Congress , iii., 46; meas-
ures for regular redemption of
public debt, 46

Public lands, report to U. S.
Senate, objects of disposition,
viii., 87

"Publius," letters incited
by the feebleness and laxity of
Congress, i., 199; to member of
Congress, personal attack, 201

Puff endorf quoted, i., 61 ; iv., 315,
382, 398, 459; vi., 218

Puritans in Holland, arrival in
America, i., loi

Quartermaster-General, i., 231

Quebec, navigation to, from Mon-
treal, v., 299

Quebec bill, remarks on ,
Canada under the French, i.,
181; Roman Catholic religion
established, 193; dangers to
New England from Quebec
bill, 196

Questions and answers {see
United States), ii., 427

Randolph, Edmund, i., 335, 382,
393,421; iii., 191; v., 119; vi.,
184, 408,445; viii., 96 x>ii'\'^3 '5-.

Rawle, William, v., 131; vi., 448

Raymond, Lord, on libel, viii.,
405, 408

Red Lake, v., 340

Red Stone Old Fort, meeting at,
vi., 359

General Index
Religion, difference between, tol-
erated and established, i., 190

Report on public credit, ii., 227;
schedules to, 290

Representatives, apportionment
of: Hamilton to Washington
, answer to President's
request for opinion on constitu-
tionality of act of apportion-
ment, viii., 96

Republican, sloop, v., 57

Resolutions for a general conven-
tion of the States, passed by
N. Y. legislature, July, 1782, i.,
Revenue {see Taxation and Public
credit); i., 131, 139; ii., 341,
Revenue system, speech on a
grant of impost to U. S. for
twenty- five years, in N. Y.
legislature , ii., 192

Reynolds pamphlet, Hamilton's
refutation of charges of specu-
lation, vii., 369; public and
private accounts, 374; his real
crime in the Reynolds case,
378; Reynolds' letters, 391;
History of U. S. for 1796, 369,
443 ; Clingman's evidence, 403 ;
Hamilton's desire to avoid ex-
posure; affidavits: Muhlen-
berg's, 412; Monroe and Ven-
able's, 413; Mary Williams's,
467; Noah Webster, Jun's, 469;
letters: to Hamilton from Mon-
roe, 452, 455, 461, 462, 464, 473,
476, 478; from Muhlenberg,
451, 452, 456; from Mrs. Rey-
nolds, 423, 429-431, 433, 438;
from James Reynolds, 423, 425-
428, 431, 434-441; from Vena-
ble, 453; from Hamilton to
Monroe, 451, 458, 461-463, 471,
475, 477, 478; from Clingman
to Wolcott, 448; Reynolds to
Wolcott, 467; from Jefferson,
471; statements: from Seckel,
442 ; from Wolcott, 443

Rhode Island, charter, i., 106;
debt of, ii., 359;^ v., 349; viii.,
482, et seq.; objections to im-
posts, i., 302; ii., 148, 179;
commissioners to Annapolis, i.,
336; representation from, ii.,
17; legislature of, 53; objec-

tion to U. S. appointing inter-
nal officers, 182; payments to
U. S. Treasury, 211, 215

Rives's Life of Madison, i., 301

Robespierre, v., 76

Roland, privateer, v., 58

Roman law, v., 424; viii., 403

Rome, example of, i., 15, 87, 282;
ii., 223 ; vi., 285

Rutgers and Waddington, suit of,
v., 227

Rutherforth, Institutes of Natural
Law, quoted, vi., 134

Rutledge, John, motion and reso-
lution, i., 302

Russia, i., 145, 147, 167, 231; iii.,
St. Clair, General, i., 323; ii., 155;

letter from, iii., 105
St. Domingo, iii., 95, 107, 122,

163, 169, et seq.; iv., 362
St. Lawrence, i., 26
Salem, petition from, ii., 384
Salt tax, ii., 54
Sans Culottes, privateer, v., 6
Savannah, evacuation of, viii., 81
Schuyler, General Philip, i., 226;

ii., 135, 138
Scotland, trade in, i., 146
Seckel, Henry, vii., 385, 442
Secretary of Treasury, report of,

iii., 41, 187
Sedgwick, Theodore, on loans, iii..
Senate {see New York conven-
tion)
Senates, i., 390
Senators, term of, ii., 47, 48
Seward's policy in 1862, iv., 313
Shawhan, Robert, vi., 377
Sherman, Roger, member of con-
vention, i., 410, 411
Shipley, speech of, i., 172
Ships, unlading of, ii., 306
Short, William, correspondence
with U. S., ii., 423; iii., 80, 81,
106, 121, 123, 126, 130, 136;
Charge d' Affaires, Paris, iv.,
296, 302; mission to Holland,
303; limitations of power, 311
Sieyes, Abb6, vi., 288
Silesian loan, confiscation of, v.,

437. 447
Skip with, letter of, to Monroe,
vi., 258
General Index

Slaves not considered altogether

as property, ii., 14
Smilie, Robert, vi., 382
Smith, Adam, Wealth of Nations,

ii., 450; iv., 198
Smith, Melanctnon, opinion on

presidential term, ii., 124
Smith, Col. W. S., negotiations on

payment to France, iv., 419
Smith, William, ii., 133; iv., 220
Smith, Col. William, application

of, vii., 216
Smuggling lawful in war- time, i.,
Soldiers petition for back pay, ii.,
South Carolma, act of , v.,

228; Assembly, ii., 16; com-
missioners to Annapolis, i., 336;
currency of, ii., 211, 216; debt
of, vii., 498, et seq.
Spain, i., 146, 150, 169, 266; iv.,
483; v., 207; viii., 155; amity
towards, iv., 335, et seq.; cap-
ture of American ships, vi., 96;
and colonies, v., 485; conduct
of, iv., 322; connection with
U. S., 298, 313; debt of, iii.,
127, 322; and Great Britain,
iv., 325; v., 258; interest in
America, 90 ; loans to America,
iii., 358; trade with America,
iv., 358; trade with Indians,
v., 289; war with France, iv,,

Spaniards on Mississippi, v., 327

Sparta, i., 252; ii., 22

Spencer, Attorney- General, viii.,
Spinoza, i., ^;^

Spirits, report to Congress on
, ii., 368; consumption
of in U. S., 435 {see also Taxa-
tion)

Stamp acts, i., 9, 127, 131, 133,

137. 138, 139. 143. 148

"Stand" letters published in
Commercial A dvertiser
on U. S. relations with France,
vi., 259; treaty of Pilnitz, 268;
necessity of preparing for war,
309; design of France to make
war between U. S. and Great
Britain, 315

State constitutions, i., 214; ii.,
46; debts, 248, 337, 358,

362, 429, 439; iii., 18; funds,
mefficacy of, i., 300; interests,
383,396,405; ii., 12,44; inter-
ference, 326, 332; papers,
368; representatives, 44; rights,
viii., 295; securities, ii., 477

States, creation of new, ii., 16,
fearful of federal encroach-
ments, 17, 56; sovereignty
of, 100, 104, 195, 196

Stevens, Edward, friend of A. H.,
yii., 198; _ix., 37 _

Stile, Captain, affair of, vii., 223

Strong, Colonel, vii., 77

Suffrage, equality impossible, i.,
Sugar-cane, i., 152

Swallow and other vessels, v., 58

Sweden, i., 167,231, 391; debt
of, iii., 322; example of, v.,
44, 201; terms with English,
Swiss cantons, i., 217, 252, 385,

397; vi., 280
Sylla, v., 77

Talleyrand, comment on Hamil-
ton, i., 169
Tarleton, Colonel, viii., 74
Tarling, Timothy, vii., 91
Taxation, amount proposed, iii.,
56; best modes of, i., 271, 272,
279, 283; colonial, act relative
to , 172; British demands
(lyy^), y, etseq.; plans for, 1 1 9 ;
constitutional provision for
. 364; ii-, 245; direct,
219; during the Revolution , v. ,
78; excise duties, ii., 221, 341,
368, et seq., 400; iii., 204, et seq.;
in different States, ii., 439; re-
sult of imposition in Penn. {see
Whiskey Rebellion) ; import
duties (impost), 179-192, 272,
291, 306, 346, 414; iii., 202,
208, 226, 265, 276; v., 129,
308, 320; ad valorem, ii., 416,
419; iii., 202, 301; iv., 164-
198; discrimination by Great
Britain, 206, 207; federal and
State interests conflicting, ii.,
54, et seq.; history of, in U. S.
(note), iv., 198; in British col-
onies, vi., 6, 21, 202; et seq.;
French colonies, 4, 23, et seq.;
limit of time for paying, ii..

General Index
Taxation {Continued)

349; on manufactured arti-
cles, 378; iv., 164-198; on
miscellaneous articles, ii., 293,
415, et seq.; on raw materials,
293, 295; v., 328; on salt,
ii., 54, 418; iv., 68; on snuff,
sugar, etc., iii., 208, 226, 308;
on spirits, ii., 282, 293,338,368-
408, 415; iii., 216, 2 21, 226, 265,
305; on wines, spirits, tea, and
coffee, ii., 276, 349, 415; on re-
ciprocity with Great Britain,
vi., 32-76; in Europe, iii., 349,
357; in Mass., 352; in New
York, viii., 40; ix., 270, e/ seq.;
miscellaneous taxes: of auc-
tions, iii., 209, 226, 307; of
buildings, 312; of horses, con-
veyances, etc., 58, 207, 226,
309; viii., 378; of land, ii., 380;
of licenses, iii., 207, 226, 306;
of patents, 226; of peltry, v.,
320, 328, et seq.; of postage,
iii., 226; poll tax, ii., 80; iv.,
161; protective duties, policy
due to Hamilton, tonnage
duties, ii., 298, 301, 321; iii.,
202, 226, 265; v., 166; vi., 18,
51, 61, 202; under Confedera-
tion: inability to enforce
, i., 214; plan for, 231,
239, 306; unpopular methods
of, in U. S., ii., 179, 434; iii.,
349, iv., 161; U. S. ftmds, ii.,
352,. 353; U. _S. military,
special tax for, i., 302; vii.,
45, 49; U. S., and States, ix.,
3, et seq.; U. S. tariff, history
of (note), iv., 198
Taylor, Colonel, vii., 91, 208
Tazewell, act drawn up by, i., 172
Tea, duty on, i., 7; arrival in

Boston, 132
Ternant, application of, xv., 362
Territory, examples of cession,

viii., 49
Thompson, Thomas, ix., 43
Thurlow, Lord, on libel, viii., 396
Ticonderoga, viii., 53
"Titus Manlius," signature to
"Stand" letters, vi., 267, 274,
281, 289
Toussard, Major, vii., 198
Trade, between Gt. Britain and
America, i., 12, 116; iv., 220;

loss of, to Gt. Britain, i., 22; il-
licit, 47; regulations, 114, 118,
129, 261, 278; rise in England,
270; centres, lack of, in U. S.,
276; promoted by public credit,
ii-. 233

Transportation, difficulty of, in
America, i., 160

Treasury {see United States), ii.,
227; iii., 30

Treaties, Executive's power to
make, iv., 436; force of, under
political changes, 374; w4th
various powers, v., 29

Treaty, commercial, with France,
v., 19, 26; of Fontainebleau,
iv., 399; with Great Britain,
Jay's , {see "Camillus");
Great Britain , viii., 161;
of Munster, iv., 241; of Paris
{see Foreign relations), 227,
325; of Utrecht, vi., 222

Trenton, i., 276, 304

Tribunes in Rome, ii., 23

Tripoli, war with, viii., 247

Trumbull, Speaker of House, iii.,

77 ^
Tryon, Governor, iv., 259

"Tully," papers on Whiskey Re-
bellion, vi., 410
Turkey, i., 145

United Netherlands {see Holland) ,
ii., 437; iii., 322, et seq., 345,

359; v., 429, 457; IX., 29

United States (see Conttnental-
ist, and Government and the
Constitution) , admission of
British shipping into waters of,
v., 141; army {see Military
papers), i., 221, 308; ii., 100,
and {see Arrears of pay), vii.,
224; viii., 239; assumed debts
of Confederation, ii., 243, 263,
286; arsenals and magazines,
vii., 130; Bank of {see National
bank), ii., 456; iii., 34, 46, no,
157, 203, 223, 333; v., 471; bill
for regulating trade of, ii., 205;
capital of, viii., 232; citizens on
foreign privateers, v., 16; coin-
age, viii., 107; condition of
. 155; Congress, conven-
ing of , no; defects of
(5^^ " Publius"), i., 199; reme-
dies for {see Government) ,213,

5o6

General Index

United States (Continued)

(see Continentalist) , 243; de-
mands papers on treaty, viii.,
161; journals of, ii., 100;
federal functions of, 200;
legislative power of, 194; na-
ture of two branches, 52, (?i seq.;
power to declare war, viii., 249,
et seq.; power of legislating
on judiciary, 314, 322, 329;
ratio of representation (see New
York convention), ii., 14, 98;
resolution of, 356; regarding
neutral ships, vi., 96 ; special ses-
sion, v., 54; credit of {see Public
credit), ii., 227; iii., 247, 257;
communication with sea, v.,
310; Constitution {see Federal
convention and New York con-
vention) ; sketch of , i . , 224, 225;
draft of, by Hamilton, 350;
ratified, ii., 103; adopted by
ten States, 162; amendments
to, 166; in relation to Jay
treaty, v., 359; vi., 161, et
seq. {see "Camillus"); militia,
436; court-martial, extra pay
in, vii., 114; courts, viii., 277;
customs officers, compensation
to, ii., 292, 310; dangers of
war to , v., 86; danger
of responsibility without power,
ii., 191, 204; debt of {see Public
credit, Loans): 188, 211, 337,
356, 427 ; foreign and domestic,
366; iii., 30; in France ,
iv., 422, 429; Hamilton's treat-
ment of, ii., 289 ; plan for fund-
ing of, 256, 444; iii., 228, 237;
iv., 118; purchased by, iii., 220;
payable in Western lands, ii.,
366 {see also Finance, vol. ii.) ;
diplomatic services, viii., 297;
duties {see Taxation), iii., 176;
Executive: duties of, iv., 437,
et seq.; necessary, i., 390; for
life, 391, 392 ; extent and popu-
lation of, iv., 117; v., 332; vi.,
260, 332, 333; viii., 284; and
France {see France), iv., 227,
366,^^5^(7., 432, 472; v., 17,75;
vi., 229; federal courts, defence
of, viii., 271, 276; government,
collection of taxes, ii., 185;
forts, disposition of troops at,
vii., 119, 151, 161; fund, ii.,

185; Government not responsi-
ble for State governments, iii.,
37; History for 1796, vii., 369,
44^ ; importance of, to Gt.
Britain, v., 126; impost benefit
of {see Taxation), ii., 181, 379;
internal revenue, viii., 252, 258;
Judicial authority of, i., 349;
li., 100; judges, teniire of
office, 100; viii., 314, 323, 330,
341, 349, 353; lack of coin in,
iii., 100; legislatures. State and
federal interests not identical,
i., 349, 407 ; ratio of representa-
tion, ii., 1^ , et seq.; branches of,
170; legislative, executive, and
judiciary departments of, viii.,
333. 338, 347. 353; loan-office
certificate, ii., 355; map of
, v., 339; maxims of free
intercourse, 291; military sup-
plies, vii., 128; naval agents,
viii., 300; navy, i., 308; viii.,
160, 218; officers, impeachment
of, i., 349; office, rotation of, ii.,
124; parties in, v., 97; people
of, inclined to State sovereignty,
i., 383 ; powers of: to lay taxes,
ii., 198, 295, 395; to erect cor-
porations, iii., 459; to regulate
trade, 390; President: forms,
viii., 83; charges against
, 122; message on
treaty, 161; protection for
frontiers, ii., 409; representa-
tives, apportionment of ,
viii., 96; revenue: from duties
on spirits {see Taxation): ii.,
340; and appropriations in
1792, iii., 174; system ,
198, 202; inspectors of, viii.,
301; right to alienate ter-
ritory, iv., 360; Senate, i., 347,
405, 411; ii., 56, 103; and
Spain, vii., 168; viii., 155; and
State debts, 467; stock, ii.,
354, 432; tariff, history of
(note) {see Taxation), iv., 198;
Treasury {see Public credit,
etc.): ii., 210; iii., 145. 207;
bills used as cash, 159; ex-
penditures, explanation of {see
Explanation), viii., 122; Jef-
ferson's proposition to specify
appropriations, 304; Sec. of
Treasury, 150; surplus in

General Index
United States (Continued)

, iii., 170; treaty with
Gt. Britain (see " Camillas "),
papers of , viii., 161;
with Portugal, 298 ; with Spain,
vi., 247; various nations, v.,
38,457; vi., 56; reciprocity in
treaties, 67; troops, organiza-
tion of {see Military papers),
vii., 6, 77, 149; war of, 76;
Western posts of {see "Camil-
lus"), v., 139; viii., 376; ves-
sels, seizure of, v., 372

Utrecht, treaty of, v., 327, 465

Valin quoted, v., 28, 41, 42; vi.,
218, 224

Van Rensselaer, Jeremiah, viii.,
223 ; Stephen, 223

Van Staphorst & Hubbard, bank-
ers, correspondence with U. S.,
iii., 81, 83, 126; agents of U. S.,
^33^ }34; iv., 302, 305

Vatel cited, iv., 315, et seq., 355,
380, 410, 435, 436, 451, 458; v.,
29, 36, 41, 44, 372, 383, 430-
436, 438, 442, 477; VI., 87, no,
117, 131, 224; vni., 50

Venable, Abraham, documents
from, on Reynolds affair, vii.,

369. 39.7
Venice, vi., 278-280, 302
Vergennes quoted, vi., 16
Vermont, speech on independence
of J in N. Y. Assembly ,
viii., 42; separation from N. Y.,
constitutionality of, 48, 51, 58;
affair of Fay and Allen, 53
Vindication of Congress, frag-
ment of paper defending Con-
gress for incurring debts, i.,

.327-331

Vindication of the Funding Sys-
tem, iii., 3

Vinnius, viii., 404

Virginia, acts of, v., 211, 229; ac-
counts, i., 168; aids Gates, viii.,
77; charters, i., 94; com-
missioners to Annapolis, 335;
convention of, ii., 157; vii.,
253, 274; debt of, ix., 22; ex-
cise duties in, vi., 339; legis-
lature of, ii., 53; opposes
Constitution, 165; payments
to U. S. Treasury, 211, 215;
representatives in federal con-

vention, i,, 382, 393; riots in,
vi., 357

Wadsworth, General, i., 204

Warning papers, attempt to rouse
Americans from French influ-
ence , vi., 229; power of
France, 235; French excesses,
240; national convention, 249;
neutral ships, 254

Wascowitch, vi., 321

Washington, George, accepts Jef-
ferson's advice on back pay,
ii., 327; Brigadier-General, vii.,
8; desire for federal city, viii.,
232; distress at quarrel be-
tween Jefferson and Hamilton,
vii., 303; farewell address
(draft by A. H.) (authorship
of, see note), viii., 187; to
Hamilton, on loans to U. S.,
iii., 129, 190; on national bank,
443 ; adopts plan, 493 ; on
French affairs, iv., 366; on
presidential etiquette, vi., 439;
to Jay and justices of Supreme
Court, on legality of French
privateers, v., 12; to heads of
deps. (draft by A. H.), 17; in-
structions to Jay (draft by
A. H.), 121; message on
British treaty (draft by A. H.),
viii., 161; on Genet
(draft by A. H.), 119; to Penn.
and Carolina gov. (draft by
A. H.), vi., 349; position, de-
fence of, v., 98; to President of
French Assembly (draft by A.
H.), iv., 349; president of
Cincinnati Society, viii., 3;
proclamation for Thanksgiving,
120; on Whiskey Rebellion,
vi,, 389, 442 (drafts by A. H.) ;
speeches to Congress, (drafts by
A. H.), viii., 102, 116, 153, 214;
slandered, 122 ; to McHenry, on
raising troops, vii., 6; death
and funeral of, 190, 191

Wasp, viii., 388, 402

Watson, James, viii., 223

Webster, Daniel, protectionist,
iv., 200

Wells, John, vi., 379

West Indies, supplies, i., 26, 27,
152-154, 170

5o8

General Index

"Westchester Farmer " answered,

i-' 3

Western islands, wine from, i., 43

Western lands, ii., 261

Western posts, iv., 334

Whigs, iv., 231

Whiskey Rebellion, resistance to
excise laws in Penn., vi., 339;
Hamilton's letters on, to Wash-
ington , 339, 341, 342,

345. 347. 349-351 , 353.
358, 388, 408, 409, 441; from
Penn., 451-460; to Craig,
410, 426; to Maj.-Gen. Lee,
445; Sec. of State to Mifflin,
Gov. of Penn., 394; proclama-
tions (Hamilton's drafts), 389,
442 ; Tully papers, to inform
public of facts, 410
White Bear Lake, v., 340
Wilkinson, General, vii., 14, 67,

93. 95. 117. 141, 151. 160, 171
Wtlham, ship, v., 27, 35, 57
William and Mary, i., no, 135,
Williams, Mary, affidavit m Rey-
nolds aifair, vii., 467

Williamson, motion to increase

number of Representatives, i ,
Willink, Wilhelm and Jan, cor-
respondence with U. S., iii., 83,
126; agents of U. S., 134; iv.,
302, 305, 312

Wilson outrage in Pennsylvania,

vi., 365
Wilson, of Pennsylvania, i., 404
Wilson, James, associate-justice,

v., 12
Wolcott, Oliver, iii., 312; vii.,

399, 443; viii., 151, 238
Woodeson's lectures, v., 29
Wool, i., 157

"X. Y. Z." letters, vi., 259

Yates, reports, i., 393, 403, et seq.;
hostile to Hamilton, 417; re-
fuses to sign Constitution, 421;
withdraws from convention,
424; proposed for Governor of
N. Y., ii., no; character of,
no, 118, 128

Yeardley, Sir George, arrival in
Virginia, i., 99

Yellow fever, v., 49; viii., no

List of letters and other papers written by Hamil-
ton and printed in the John C. Hamilton edition of
1850, which are omitted in this edition.

(The page and voltune references are to the edition of 1850.)

VOLUME I
private correspondence

Page.

3 Letter to Capt. William Newton, November 16, 1771.

3 Routine busmess letter for house in which Hamilton was clerk.

4 Pay-book of artillery company, and memoranda of books read.
12 Convention, March 17, 1777.

60 Letter from Hamilton to General Sullivan, 1778.
60 Routine letter written for Washington, and conveying Washing-
ton's orders.

VOLUME II

139 Reorganization of the Army. Supposed to have been addressed
by Washington to committee of Congress, January 28, 1778.
From two rough drafts in Hamilton's handwriting.

153 Inspector- General. Report by Washington. Draft by Hamil-
ton, May 5, 1778.

164 Military Remarks and Queries. Submitted by Washington to
committee of Congress. Draft by Hamilton.

168 Inspector-General. Report of Washington and committee,
January 28, 1779. Draft by Hamilton.

171 Mission to France. Washington to Laurens. Draft by Hamil-
ton.

176 Military Regulations. Submitted to Washington. Draft by
Hamilton.

183 Discipline. Submitted by Washington to Congress, February 3,
1 78 1. Draft by Hamilton.
These papers did not seem to merit reprinting. In those which
were used substantially as Hamilton drafted them, it is
obvious that they embodied Washington's ideas, and
Hamilton's part was merely clerical; and, moreover, they
can all be found in Washington's writings, or elsewhere.
Those not used, like the first and fourth, are also shown by
comparison with Washington's writings to be merely at-
tempts by Hamilton to embody the General's views. They
have no independent value.
5IO Omitted Letters

Page.

204 Plan of specific taxation for the State of New York. Merely a
list of articles and tax proposed for each.

212 to 283 inclusive. Resolutions and committee reports in Congress.
These can all be found in the journals of Congress, and are
— not therefore reprinted in this edition. Moreover, it is im-
possible to say how much in each case was Hamilton's, or
how far he was mouthpiece of his committee, or his peti-
tioners. The appropriate place for these papers seemed to be
in the published journals, etc. Three only of these papers
have been retained: one is on public credit; the second,
open debate; third, on a plan for a military peace estab-
lishment— an important part of Hamilton's scheme for a
new system of government.

330 Constitution of Bank of New York.

333 Petition as to Revenue System.

341 Act to institute University of New York. Mr. Proctor, the
editor of the forthcoming edition of Hammond's Political
History of New York, has, I think, shown conclusively that
this act was the work of Ezra L'Hommedieu.

374 Act to ratify independence of Vermont.

426 Resolutions in Congress — I., to admit Kentucky.

471 Resolutions in Congress — II., as to ratification of new constitu-

tion.

472 Resolutions in Congress — III., as to fugitive slaves.

473 Resolutions in Congress — IV., as to free navigation of Mississippi.

VOLUME III

46 Report, Treasury — revision of forfeitures.

48 Additional estimates, 1790.

50 Tax scheme for interest on State debts.

80 Report accompanying abstract of tonnage duties, May 11, 1790;

account of money received from or paid to the States, May

II, 1790.
82 Ref)ort on taking West Point by Government, June 10, 1790.
89 Estimates, August 7, 1790.
93 Renewal of final settlement certificates, August 7, 1790.

146 Estimates for 1791, Jan. 6, 1791.

147 Duties on imports, Jan. 7, 1791.

188 Trade with India and China, Feb, 10, 1791.

190 Dutch loan; statement of terms, etc., Feb. 25, 1791.

192 Spirits — draft of an act, March 3 , 1 7 9 1 , and Executive order, Oct.

^ .31. 1791-
284 Estimates, 1791-1792.
337 Remission of duties in the case of Eliphalet Ladd, April 20, 1792.

350 Loans, drafts of resolutions for, Dec. 24 and 27, 1792.

351 Loans, transmitting statement of, Jan. 10, 1793.

352 Bank deposits, transmitting statement of, Jan, 16, 1793.

441 Spirits, revenue from — statement of March i and 2, 1793.

442 Spirits, revenue from — statement of Jan. 20, 1794.
444 Balance in Treasury, and domestic loans, Feb. 4, 1794.

446 Public debt, receipts and expenditures, statement of, Feb. 6,

1794.
451 Loan and contract with bank, April 25, 1794.
529 to 574 Revenue circulars.

Omitted Letters 511

Page.

578 Interest on claims of South Carolina line, March i8, 1790.

580 to 590 Reports on private claims.

All the above papers from Vol. III. (ed. 1850), omitted in this
edition, are purely of a routine nature and of no historical
value. They can all be found also in State Papers, Finance,
Vol. I.

VOLUME IV

CABINET PAPERS

12 Hamilton to Willink & Co., May 7, 1790. Business letter as to

loans.

13 Hamilton to Washington, — 1790. Communicating letters from

Amsterdam bankers, and discussing the loans and the acts
authorizing them.

22 Hamilton to W. Short, May 29, 1790. As to loans.

23 Hamilton to Washington, June 18, 1790. Report as to light-

houses.
30 Hamilton to Washington, June 18, 1790. Submitting contract

with a light-house keeper.
30 Hamilton to Washington, Jtme 21, 1790. Submitting contract

for lumber, etc.
37 Hamilton to Washington, August 28, 1790.
37 Hamilton to W. Short, August 29, 1790. Routine letter as to

loans.
46 Hamilton to Washington, Sept. 10, 1790. As to revenue matters.
75 Hamilton to Benj. Lincoln, Oct. 4, 1790. As to light-house at

Portland.
81 Hamilton to Washington, Nov. 4, 1790. As to frauds in old

certificates.
93 Hamilton to W. Seton, Dec. 7, 1790. As to assay of coins.

93 Hamilton to Washington, Dec. 13, 1790. Transmitting report

on national bank.

94 Hamilton to Washington, Dec. 15, 1790. Transmitting request

of collector of Boston.

95 Hamilton to Washington, Dec. 22, 1790. Transmitting report

on post- office.
147 Hamilton to W. Duer, April 7, 1791. As to government con-
tract.

149 Hamilton to Washington, April 10, 1791. As to Dutch loans.

150 Hamilton to Washington, April 11, 1 7 9 1 . Giving an extract from

a letter of R. King.

152 Hamilton to W. Short, April 13, 1791. As to Dutch loans.

154 Hamilton to Washington, April 14, 1 791. As to Dutch loans.

157 Hamilton to W. Short, May 9, 1791. As to Dutch loans.

157 Hamilton to W. Short, May 24, 1 791. As to Dutch loans.

162 Hamilton to W. Short, June 25, 1791. Loans.

162 Hamilton to W. Short, June 30, 1791. Loans.

167 Hamilton to Washington, July 29, 1791. Foreign loans.

168 Hamilton to W. Short, Aug. i, 1791. Loans.

170 Hamilton to Jefferson, Aug. 26, 1791. Transmitting drafts of

powers.
170 Hamilton to W. Short, Sept. 2, 1791. Loans.
174 Hamilton to Washington, Sept. 16, 1791. Enclosing letter.
176 Hamilton to W. Short, Oct. 3, 1791. Loans.

512 Omitted Letters

176 Hamilton to Messrs. Willink, Oct. 3, 1791. Loans.

177 Hamilton to Washington, Oct. 6, 17 91. Giving extract from

letter of Church.

180 Hamilton to W. Short, Nov. i, 1791. Loans.

181 Hamilton to W. Short, Nov. 30, 1791. Loans.

183 Hamilton to Thos. Mifflin, Dec. 21, 1791. As to certificates of

State debts.

184 Heads of topics for President's speech, Dec. 25, 1791.

185 Hamilton to W. Short, Jan. 28, 1792. Loans.

186 Hamilton to W. Short, Feb. 14, 1792. Loans.

187 Hamilton to Willink, Feb. 14, 1792. Loans.

188 Hamilton to Washington, March i, 1792. Submitting report on

excise.
188 Hamilton to W. Short, March 5, 1792. Loans.
193 Hamilton to Washington, March 8, 1792. Transmitting draft of

letter to French Minister.
193 Hamilton to Washington, March 16, 1792. Transmitting draft

of report on ways and means.

193 Hamilton to W. Short, March 21, 1792. Loans.

194 Hamilton to W. Short, April 2, 1792. Loans.

216 Hamilton to W. Short, April 10, 1792. Loans.

217 Hamilton to Washington, April 12, 1792. Transmitting resolve

as to sinking fund.
217 Hamilton to W. Short, May 7, 1792. Loans.

220 Hamilton to Washington, May 9, 1792, Adjustment of warrants.

221 Hamilton to W. Short, June 14, 1792. Loans.

222 Hamilton to Washington, June 19, 1792. As to a light-house.

223 Hamilton to W. Short, June 23, 1792. Loans.

225 Hamilton to W Short, June 30, 1792. Loans.

226 Hamilton to W. Short, Jtily 25, 1792. Loans.

239 Hamilton to Washington, Aug. 3, 1792. As to supply of a light-
house.

239 Hamilton to W. Short, Aug. 4, 1792. Loans.

240 Hamilton to Jefferson, Aug. — , 1792, Suggesting a change of a

sentence in a report.
279 Hamilton to W. Short, Aug. 16, 1792. Loans.

282 Hamilton to Washington, Aug. 27, 1792. As to mode of paying

foreign debt.

283 Hamilton to W. Short, Aug. 28, 1792. Loans.

307 Hamilton to W. Short, Sept. 13, 1792. Loans.

308 Hamilton to G. Morris, Sept. 13, 1792. Loans.

318 Hamilton to W. Short, Oct. i, 1792. Loans.

319 Hamilton to W. Short, Oct. 16, 1792. Loans.

319 Hamilton to Washington, Oct. 31, 1792. Enclosing statement
of pay of revenue officers.

319 Hamilton to Washington, Oct. 31,1792. Enclosing loan contract.

320 Hamilton to W. Short, Nov. 5, 1792. Loans.

331 Hamilton to W. Short, Nov. 26, 1792. Loans.

332 Hamilton to Jefferson, Dec. 26, 1792. As to information from

consuls.

333 Hamilton to W. Short, Dec. 31, 1792. Loans.

337 Hamilton to Washington, Jan. 24, 1793. Enclosing statement

of account.
337 Hamilton to W. Short, Feb. i, 1793. Loans.
339 Cabinet opinion of four heads of departments as to payments of

French debt. Feb. 25, 1793.

Omitted Letters 513

Page.

340 Cabinet opinions as to treaty with Indians. Feb, 25, 1793.

342 Cabinet opinions as to President qualifying. Feb. 27, and

March i, 1793.

343 Cabinet opinions as to French debt. March 2, 1793.

343 Cabinet opinions as to Kentucky expeditions. March 10, 1793.

345 Hamilton to W. Short, March 15, 1793. Loans.

346 Hamilton to Willink and others, March 15, 1793. Loans.

347 Hamilton to Washington, March 18, 1793. Loans.

392 Hamilton to Washington, May 4, 1793. Enclosing draft of

circular.

394 Hamilton to Jefferson, May 9, 1793. As to passports.

406 Hamilton to Washington, May 25, 1793.

411 Hamilton to Washington, Jime 3, 1793. Loans.

424 Cabinet opinion as to seizure of sloop Polly. June 12, 1793.

426 Hamilton to Washington, June 15, 1793. Statement of account.

434 Cabinet opinion as to French privateers. Jime 20, 1793.

435 Hamilton to Washington, June 24, 1793. Statement of account.

448 Hamilton to Washington, July 19, 1793. Enclosing a letter.

449 Hamilton to Washington, July 24, 1793. Loans.

462 Cabinet opinion as to French privateers. Aug. 5, 1793.

465 Hamilton to W. Short, Aug. 12, 1793. Loans.

466 Hamilton to Willink, etc., Aug. 12, 1793. Loans.

467 Hamilton to Washington, Aug. 14, 1793. Enclosing a letter.
467 Cabinet opinion as to French prizes. Aug. 15, 1793.

467 Cabinet opinion as to Genet's correspondence. Aug. 23, 1793.

490 Hamilton to Jefferson, Nov. 30, 1793. As to case of St. Domingo

vessel.

49 1 Hamilton to Washington, Dec. 2 , 1 7 93 . Payments of French debt.
506 Hamilton to Washington, Feb. 10, 1794. Case of defaulting

collector.

508 Cabinet opinion as to payment of French debt. Mar. 11, 1794-

509 Hamilton to Washington, March 21, 1794. Enclosing statement

of accounts.

532 Hamilton to Washington, April 19, 1794. Transmitting two

letters.

533 Hamilton to Washington, April 21, 1794. As to foreign loans.

534 Hamilton to Washington, April 23, 1794. Loans.
546 Hamilton to Washington, April 28, 1794. Loans,

546 Hamilton to Washington, April 30, 1794. Sending translation of

letter and as to payments to France.

547 Hamilton to Washington, May 3, 1794. Enclosing letter from

Attorney- General .

560 Hamilton to Washington, May 27, 1794. Loans.

562 Hamilton to Washington, June 4, 1794- Loans.

568 Hamilton to Washington, June 22, 1794. As to case of a col-
lector.

VOLUME V

14 Hamilton to Washington, Aug. 18, 1794. Transmitting letter.
14 Hamilton to Washington, Aug. 21, 1794. Explaining delay in

sending certain papers.
60 Hamilton to Washington, Dec. 23, 1794. Loans.
63 Hamilton to Washington, Jan. 12, 1795. As to commissioner of

loans in New York.

VOL. X.— 33.

514 Omitted Letters

Page.
63 Hamilton to Washington, Jan. 12, 1795. As to appointment of
a marshal.

65 Hamilton to Washington, Jan. 21, 1795. As to excise.

66 Hamilton to Willink, etc., Jan. 25, 1795. Loans.

69 Hamilton to Washington, Jan. 31, 1795. As to French consul.
77 Hamilton to Washington, Feb. 4, 1795. Enclosing report.

MILITARY PAPERS

138 Hamilton to McHenry, July 28, 1798. Recommending Philip
Church for an army appointment.

142 Hamilton to John Jay, Oct. 29, 1798. Asking an interview on
military business.

142 Hamilton to Washington (?), October 29, 1798.

185 Hamilton to McPherson, December 26, 1798. Asking for draft
of surveys.

215 Hamilton to McHenry, February 16, 1799. Asking for distribu-
tion of troops.

215 Hamilton to Washington, Feb. 18, 1799. Enclosing letters for
approval.

215 Hamilton to Theo. Sedgwick, Feb. 19, 1799. As to division of
Massachusetts into military districts.

222 Hamilton to Rivardi, March i, 1799. Ordering him to visit

certain posts.

223 Draft of an act for organizing troops, March i, 1799.

232 Hamilton to , , 1799. As to transportation con-
tracts.

232 Hamilton to C. C. Pinckney, March 7, 1799. Distribution and

recruiting of troops.

233 Hamilton to Washington, March 14, 1799. Residence of Pay-

master-General.

234 Hamilton to McHenry, March 16, 1799. Recruiting.
234 Hamilton to McHenry, March 16, 1799. Recruiting.

236 Hamilton to McHenry, March 19, 1799. Asking for lists, etc.

239 Hamilton to Washington, March 27, 1799. Recruiting.

240 Hamilton to Washington, April 3, 1799. Announcing carrying

out of certain orders.
248 Hamilton to McHenry, April 17, 1799. Acknowledging letters.
248 Hamilton to Walbach, April 17, 1799. Ordering certain cavalry

evolutions to be tried.
251 Hamilton to McHenry, April 26, 1799. Submitting plan for

artillery regiments.
262 Hamilton to McPherson, May 26, 1799. Asking suggestions as

to organization.
264 Hamilton to Capt. EUery, May 29, 1799. Giving orders.

268 Hamilton to Capt. AUum, June 8, 1799. Ordering him to his

command.

269 Hamilton to Maj. Hoops, June 10, 1799. Giving orders.

272 Hamilton to McHenry, June 18, 1799. Enclosing report.

273 Circular to commandants, June 19, 1799.

275 Hamilton to McHenry, Jime 21, 1799. As to organization of

cavalry.
279 Hamilton to M. Clarkson, June 25, 1799. Asking suggestions of

names for officers.
279 Hamilton to McHenry, June 25, 1799. As to clothing of army.
284 Hamilton to McHenry, July 2, 1799. As to raising cavalry.

Omitted Letters 515

Page.

291 Hamilton to John Jay, July 29, 1799. New York fortifications.

291 Hamilton to General Stevens, July 29, 1799. Uniforms.

292 Hamilton to McHenry, July 30, 1799. Straw and fuel.

296 Hamilton to Wolcott, August 10, 1799. Hospital in Rhode

Island.
302 Hamilton to Washington, Aug. 21, 1799. Recruiting returns.

308 Hamilton to McHenry, Sept. 2, 1799. Barracks and quarters,

309 Hamilton to Toussard, Sept. 6, 1799. Fort at Portsmouth.

336 Hamilton to Swan, Sept. 22, 1799. Pay-rolls.

337 Hamilton to Washington, Sept. 23, 1799. Winter quarters.

341 Hamilton to McHenry, Oct. 3, 1799. Hutting troops.

342 Hamilton to , Oct. 4, 1799. Winter quarters.

353 Hamilton to Washington, Oct. 21, 1799. Barracks.

355 Hamilton to McHenry, Oct. 22, 1799. Disposition of Western

troops.

356 Hamilton to McHenry, Oct. 25, 1799. Transmitting proceedings

of court-martial.
356 Hamilton to McHenry, Oct. 25, 1799. Lt. Smith's claim.

359 Hamilton to John Adams, Oct. 29, 1799. Acknowledging an

order.

360 Hamilton to McHenry, Oct. 29, 1799. Works at Loftus Heights.

368 Hamilton to , Oct. 31, 1799. Relative rank.

369 Conjectures as to wagons, , 1799.

370 Hamilton to Col. Reade, Nov. 2, 1799. Forage.

383 Hamilton to Washington, Nov. 28, 1799. Enclosing a letter.

391 Hamilton to North, Dec. 21, 1799. As to funeral ceremonies at

Washington.

393 Hamilton to Toussard, Dec. 22, 1799. Artillery regulations.

396 Hamilton to McHenry, Jan. 15, 1800. Act regulating commands.

399 Hamilton to , Jan. 6, 1800. Quarters.

400 Circular, Jan. 25, 1800. Enlistment of troops.

401 Hamilton to McHenry, Feb. 21, 1800. Arrangement of officers.

402 Hamilton to McHenry, Feb. 28, 1800. Travelling expenses of

an officer.
404 Hamilton to C. C. Pinckney, March 7, 1800. Instructions to

officers, etc.
413 Remarks on organization, , 1800.

415 Hamilton to C. C. Pinckney, March 26, 1800. Enclosing a plan.

416 Hamilton to Ogden, April 15, 1800. Duties of Quartermaster-

General.
434 Hamilton to , May 27, 1800. Length of step.

PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE

469 Hamilton to Pintard, April 23, 1791. Asking suggestions as to
revenue laws.

471 Hamilton to Bayard and others, , 1791. As to

site for a factory.

506 Hamilton to Van Schaack, April 20, 1792. As to certain manu-
factures.

517 Hamilton to E. Boudinot, July 30, 1792. Making an appoint-
ment.

633 Hamilton to Washington, May 5, 1795. Enclosing a letter from
G. Morris.

5i6 Omitted Letters

VOLUME VI

PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE
Page.
64 Hamilton to Wolcott, Nov. 15, 1795. Enclosing draft of "The

Explanation."
92 Hamilton to John Jay, March 10, 1796. Declining to act as
counsel for the State,
loi Hamilton to Washington, April 8, 1796. Enclosing a draft.
267 Hamilton to McHenry, Feb. 13, 1798. Asking him to sell some

stock.
370 Hamilton to John Adams, Oct. 29, 1798. Acknowledging order.
381 Hamilton to Oliver Wolcott, Dec. 28, 1798. As to loan.
428 Hamilton to Swan, Feb. 17, 1800. Soldier's claim.

549 Hamilton to Oliver Wolcott, Aug. 14, 1802. Plan for a business

partnership.

550 Hamilton to G. Morris. Enclosing law papers.

VOLUME VII

836 Resolutions for amendment of Constitution as to presidential

election, 1802.

837 Petition for act to supply New York with water, 1802.

838 Plan of Merchants' Bank.

END OF VOLUME X.

rJ

•r'-f A —

^y^i«i»T^^« ^rwf-. »■■--•-. ■■ ■ ..^ .

University of
Connecticut

Libraries

II Hill nil!

3y1b3U2UU/^!lUU


===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 11) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander11hami/worksofalexander11hami_djvu.txt

BOOK 973.4. H18 v 1
HAMILTON # WORKS

3 115-3-

Constitutional Coition

-

The Works of

Alexander Hamilton

Edited by

Henry Cabot Lodge

" The sacred rights of mankind are not to De rummaged for among old parchments or
musty records. They are written, as with a sunbeam, in the whole volume of human nature,
by the hand of the Divinity itself, and can never be erased or obscured by mortal power."

[Hamilton— The Farmer Refuted, 1775, -#X 18.]

" We are laboring hard to establish in this country principles more and more national,
and free from all foreign ingredients, so that we may be neither ' Greeks nor Trojans,' but
truly Americans." — [Hamilton to King, 1796, JEt. 39.]

Volume XI

G. P. Putnam's Sons
New York and London
Sbe IKntckerbocfcer press

Ube Tkntcfeerbocfcer iprese, View Korft

r-

THE FEDERALIST

A COMMENTARY ON

The Constitution of the United States

REPRINTED FROM THE ORIGINAL TEXT OF

ALEXANDER HAMILTON
John Jay, and James Madison

CONTENTS

Introduction: pagb

I. — The Authorship of the "Federalist" . xv

II. — The Bibliography of the "Federalist" . xxxi

III. — The Text of the "Federalist" xl

THE FEDERALIST

No. I. — General Introduction . 3

Purpose of the series to show the utility of the Union to
political prosperity, etc.

No. II. — Concerning Dangers from Foreign Force

and Influence 9

General introduction to the subject.

No. III. — The Same Subject Continued ... 16

The Union a protection against such dangers, by re-
moving the usual causes of just war, artd by preventing vio-
lations of compacts and treaties, on account of greater
efficiency and better character than are possessed by the
State governments — The Union also better able to settle
international differences.

No. IV. — The Same Subject Continued ... 22

Unjust causes of war avoided — Greater ability to com-
pel respect of other nations and prevent their attacking
us from jealousy of our successful trade.

No. V. — The Same Subject Continued ... 28
Union secures us from foreign influence in the several
States which wotild exist if they were not united, and pre-
vents their alliance with foreign and rival nations.

vi Contents

PAGE

No. VI. — Concerning Dangers from Dissensions

BETWEEN THE STATES 34

Reasons for these dissensions if States remain disunited,
and especially the dangers from personal ambitions in
small States — Historical examples — The Shays rebellion —
Arguments of those who favor separate States answered —
Historical examples — Appeal to the people from these
examples.

No. VII. — The Same Subject Continued . . 42

Causes for dissensions among States if disunited enumer-
ated.

No. VIII. — The Consequences of Hostilities be-
tween the States 51

First, destruction of life and property; then, standing
armies, extension of executive power, the rise of the mili-
tary over the civil power — Objections to the Union on this
score answered — Army not dangerous to liberty, if there is
a Union — Examples of Greece and of Great Britain.

No. IX. — The Union as a Safeguard against Do-
mestic Faction and Insurrection . . 59
Danger of these troubles in republics, and the argument
thus afforded to the advocates of despotisms — The ad-
vantage of a Confederacy — Historical examples — Montes-
quieu's views — Distinction between confederation and
consolidation — Nature of a confederacy — The proposed
Constitution a confederate-republican form — The Lycian
confederacy.

No. X. — The Same Subject Continued ... 67

Danger of faction in the United States as elsewhere —
Nature of a faction — Modes of avoiding this danger —
Superiority of a representative government to a democracy
in preventing factions — The advantage of a large republic
in this respect.

No. XI. — The Utility of the Union in Respect to

Commercial Relations and a Navy . . 79

Foreign nations jealous of our commerce — Need of uni-
formity of action — Respect commanded by a navy —
Effects of disunion on commerce — On the fisheries — On the

Contents vii

PAGE

navigation of the Western lakes and the Mississippi river —
Jealousy of Spain — Advantages of a navy — Internal com-
merce^— Europe not superior to America.

No. XII. — The Utility op the Union in Respect to

Revenue 89

Commerce the best source of wealth, and increases the
ability to pay taxes — Indirect taxation best suited to
America, and that must come from commerce — Taxation
of this sort impossible without Union — The results of a
destruction of this resource — The need of revenue, and the
best sources for it ensured by Union.

No. XIII. — Advantage of the Union in Respect to

Economy in Government .... 97

One civil list instead of many — Small confederacies will
be formed, each as expensive as the single Confederacy
proposed — Reasons for this.

No. XIV. — Objections to the Proposed Constitu-
tion from Extent of Territory Answered . 101

Distinction between a republic and a democracy — Errors
as to ancient republics — Extending the limits of a republic
— Territory of the United States not too extended, com-
pared with European nations — Jurisdiction of the United
States limited to objects of general interest — Purpose of the
Constitution to unite States and add to their number —
Intercourse between the States will be promoted — All the
States exposed, and all need protection.

No. XV. — The Insufficiency of the Present Con-
federation to Preserve the Union . . 109

Evil results of the present Confederation — Analysis of
the defects of the Confederation — The true purposes of
government — Impotence of the Confederation for efficient
government — Experience under the present Confederation.

No. XVI. — The Same Subject Continued . . 121

Experience of other confederacies — The present Con-
federation leads to domestic war, foreign influence, national
ruin, and military despotism — Union cannot so exist —
Efficient government must reach individuals — Objections
answered.

viii Contents

PAGE

No. XVII. — The Same Subject Continued . . 129
The objection that the reserved rights of the States will
be invaded — The real danger the other way — Federal gov-
ernments tend to anarchy, not tyranny — The States will
have a superior influence — Reasons for this — Historical
examples.

No. XVIII. — The Same Subject Continued . . 135
Historical examples.

No. XIX. — The Same Subject Continued . . 144

Historical examples.

No. XX. — The Same Subject Continued . . 152

The example of the Netherlands.

No. XXI. — Other Defects of the Present Confed-
eration 159

No sanction to its laws, no power to exact obedience, no
power to punish disobedience, no power to use force with
the States, no power to assist a State in enforcing its own
laws — Objection as to interfering with States answered —
The principle of raising money by contributions from the
States — This rule unequal and oppressive and will become
ruinous — The remedy proposed — Advantages of taxes on
articles of consumption, and of indirect taxation.

No. XXII. — The Same Subject Continued . . 166

No power to regulate commerce — Evils of this lack of
power — Raising troops by quota — Evils of such a system
— The evils and dangers arising from the equal vote of the
States in Congress — The want of a judiciary power — The
organization of Congress utterly improper for the exercise
of suitable powers — The present Confederation never rati-
fied by the people.

No. XXIII. — The Necessity of a Government as
Energetic as the One Proposed to the
Preservation of the Union .... 180
The objects of the federal government — The common
defence of the States and the powers necessary — Reasons
why these powers should not be limited — Failure in this
respect of the Confederation — Remedies of the Constitu-
tion.

Contents ix

PAGE

No. XXIV. — The Powers Necessary to the Com-
mon Defence Further Considered . . 187

Objection as to standing army answered — These powers
given to Congress — Limitations on Congress — No inter-
diction in State constitutions, with two exceptions, to
standing armies — None in articles of Confederation —
Necessity of such powers in the federal government — Our
commerce demands a navy.

No. XXV. — The Same Subject Continued . . 194

Objection that States can provide for common defence
answered — The common defence cannot be entrusted to
the separate States because it would be oppressive to some
States, might become dangerous to all, would create jeal-
ousies between the States, and might imperil the authority
of the Union — Provisions of the Confederation in this
respect — A mistake to restrain the discretion of Congress
in keeping or raising armies — Disadvantages of militia —
Standing armies sometimes necessary when there is no
foreign war — Example of Pennsylvania and Massachusetts
— Dangerous to restrain too much the federal government.

No. XXVI. — The Idea of Restraining the Legisla-
tive Authority in Regard to the Common
Defence Considered ..... 202

Its origin — Not in favor here — The exclusion of military
establishments in time of peace — Its origin and progress —
Giving the authority to Congress a sufficient safeguard —
Reasons for this — Objection that the Executive may seize
supplies answered and an appeal made on this point for
Union.

No. XXVII. — The Same Subject Continued . . 211

The objection that the new government will require the
military force to administer its laws considered — The
national government not in danger of popular ill-will any
more than those of the States — Reasons for believing that
the federal government will be better administered than
those of the States — Less liability to sedition against
federal government — Less likely to require force than that
proposed by the opposition — Reasons for this — The laws of
the Union, so far as they go, to be the supreme law of the
land.

x Contents

PAGE

No. XXVIII. — The Same Subject Continued . . 216

Cases in which the federal government must use force —
Equally necessary in plan of opposition — Employment of
force controlled by Congress — If Congress prove unfaithful
there is the original right of self-defence — The States'
security against Federal usurpation — Further security in
the extent of territory and the limited resources of the
country.

No. XXIX. — Concerning the Militia . . . 222
Regulation of militia must be confined to federal govern-
ment to secure uniformity of organization and discipline —
Objections that no power is given to federal magistrate to
call out posse comitatus, that danger may be apprehended
from authority over militia, answered — The project of
" Publius" for a military establishment and its advantages
— The appointment of officers of militia by States a suffi-
cient safeguard — Objection as to power to order militia to
distant States answered.

No. XXX. — Concerning the General Power op

Taxation 231

Such power necessary to every constitution — Evil effects
of want of such power — Results in present Confederation
— Objection that Congress should be limited to external
taxation answered — Evils and defects of the system of
requisitions — Without general power existing funds would
be diverted in time of war — The general power will bring
out the resources of the country and give confidence to
lenders.

No. XXXI. — The Same Subject Continued . . 238

The importance of first principles — In morals and poli-
tics— Reasons for diversity of opinion on these matters —
The positions thus far established reviewed. The oppos-
ing arguments as to usurpations by the federal govern-
ment and as to federal aggressions on State governments
reviewed — The popular sympathy with the State govern-
ments.

No. XXXII. — The Same Subject Continued . . 245

Objection that the general power of taxation would in-
terfere with the State levies considered — Barrier against

. Contents xi

PAGB

this danger — Federal sovereignty limited — The only ex-
clusive power of taxation in the federal government is in
laying duties on imports — The power of taxation in all
other respects concurrent with that of the States — Proof
of this — No repugnancy between federal and State power
— Concurrent authority the necessary result of a divided
sovereignty.

No. XXXIII. — The Same Subject Continued 251

Objections to incidental powers of taxation considered
— These powers necessary — Their express grant an act of
caution — The federal authorities and then their constitu-
ents the judges of the propriety of federal measures —
Objections that the taxation laws of the Union are supreme
considered, and the necessity of this supremacy shown —
These laws limited by the Constitution.

No. XXXIV. — The Same Subject Continued . . 257
Concurrent authority concerning taxation the only al-
ternative to complete subordination of the States — Ab-
surdity of denying the practicability of concurrent
authority — Examples from Roman history — Needs of the
federal government for large powers of taxation.

No. XXXV. — The Same Subject Continued . . 266
Reasons for not restricting federal government in the
matter of revenue — Restraint would lead to inequality of
taxation and oppression — Objections that the interest of
the revenue would guard against an extreme tariff, and
that all classes of tax-paying citizens cannot be repre-
sented, considered — Representation in Congress analyzed
in regard to taxation — Good effects of mixed representa-
tion and the need of extensive information among repre-
sentatives.

No. XXXVI .— The Same Subject Continued . . 274
Representation further considered with reference to
taxation — The federal government able to exercise the
power of internal taxation — Better than the system of
requisitions — No danger of conflict between State and
federal authorities in regard to taxation — Minor objections
to power of taxation considered.

xii Contents

PAGB

No. XXXVII. — Concerning the Difficulties of
the Convention in Devising a Proper Form
of Government 285

Difficulty of discussing public measures in the right
spirit — Predetermined friends and enemies — The Federal-
ist addressed to neither, but to those who wish merely the
happiness of the country — Novelty and difficulties of the
work pointed out — The constitution of necessity not per-
fect, but the convention worked without party feeling, and
all were finally satisfied.

No. XXXVIII. — The Same Subject Continued, and
the Incoherence of the Objections to the
New Plan Exposed 295

All governments of deliberation and consent hitherto
framed by individuals — Examples — Errors in the new sys-
tem arise from lack of experience — The present situation
of America — Existing evils shown, and the futility of the
objections and remedies of the opposition.

No. XXXIX. — The Conformity of the Plan to Re-
publican Principles 308

Only a republican system possible for America — The
principles of republican government shown by examples —
The proposed Constitution conforms to the standard —
Proofs of this from the provisions of the Constitution —
Neither wholly national nor wholly federal.

No. XL. — The Powers of the Convention to Form
a Mixed Government Examined and Sus-
tained 318

The authority under which the convention acted ex-
amined— Proper even to have exceeded authority, from
considerations of duty — Constitution merely recommended
— Necessity for a radical change — Whether the convention
exceeded its powers does not affect the question of
ratification.

No. XLI. — General View of the Powers Conferred

by the Constitution . ... 329

The quantity of power conferred — Not greater than it
should be — General objections considered — The objects

Contents xiii

PAGE

of the powers conferred — Declaring war and granting
letters of marque — Providing armies and fleets — Regu-
lating and calling out the militia — Levying taxes and bor-
rowing money.

No. XLII. — The Powers Conferred by the Consti-
tution Further Considered .... 343

Regulation of intercourse with foreign nations — Am-
bassadors, consuls, and treaties — Punishment of piracy,
felonies on the high seas, and offences against the laws of
nations — Regulation of foreign commerce — The sanction
of the slave trade — Objection on that point considered —
Maintenance of harmony and proper intercourse among
the States — Inter-State commerce and the Indian trade
— Coinage of money — Punishment of counterfeiters —
Standard of weights and measures — Naturalization —
Bankruptcy laws — Rule for proving public acts — Post-
roads and post-offices.

No. XLIII. — The Same Subject Continued . . 354

Miscellaneous powers — Copyrights and patents — The
Federal city — Punishment of treason — Admission of new
States — Government of territories and control of public
property — Guaranty to every State of a republican form
of government — Protection of States against invasion and
against domestic violence — Assumption of payment of
outstanding debts — Amendments to the Constitution —
The establishment of this government on the adherence
of nine States — Objection that this is a violation of the
Confederation — Relations between ratifying States and
those which refuse to ratify.

No. XLIV. — Restrictions on the Authority of the

Several States 367

Forbidding the establishment of treaties and alliances
between the States, the issue of letters of marque, the
coinage of money, the issue of bills of credit, the establish-
ment of any legal tender other than gold and silver, the
passage of bills of attainder, the passage of ex-post-facto
laws, the passage of laws impairing contracts, the estab-
lishment of titles of nobility, and the imposition of duties
on exports and imports — The power to make all laws neces-
sary and proper to carry the preceding powers into execu-
tion— Necessity of such a power — Prohibition of the

xiv Contents

PAGE

exercise of any powers not expressly delegated — Positive
enumeration of general powers delegated — Negative
enumeration by specification of reserved powers and by
silence — Remedy for an abuse of this general power — The
supremacy of the Constitution, the constitutional laws,
and treaties — Oath of State and federal officers to support
Constitution — No part of the powers delegated unnecessary
or improper.

No. XLV. — The Alleged Danger from the Powers
of the Union to the State Governments
Considered ....... 378

The new Constitution not dangerous to the State govern-
ments, because; the tendency in confederacies is to
weaken the central power; the State governments will
have more influence among the people ; the State govern-
ments are essential parts of the federal government; the
officers of the United States are less numerous than those
of the States; the reserved powers are relatively greater
than those delegated ; the proposed change consists less in
giving new than in strengthening old powers.

INTRODUCTION

THE AUTHORSHIP OF THE " FEDERALIST* '

THE authorship of certain numbers of the Fed-
eralist has fairly reached the dignity of a well-
established historical controversy, and has become
almost as hopeless of settlement as the identity of
Junius or the guilt of Mary, Queen of Scots. In
character it closely resembles the former question, ex-
cept that the mystery of Junius is due to his secrecy,
while with the Federalist more authors have confessed
themselves than can be provided for in the essays.

The discussion about the Federalist began nearly
seventy years ago, has continued at intervals down
to the present day, and culminated some twenty
years since in two most elaborate essays, one by
Mr. Henry B. Dawson, the other by Mr. John
C. Hamilton, which were prefixed to the editions
of the Federalist published by those two gentlemen
respectively. It is of course idle to suppose that
any thing can now be written which will convince or
satisfy everybody as the true answer to this long-
mooted question. Yet it is possible, perhaps, not
only to present the evidence, including a little that
is new, in a compact form, but also to state the case

XV

xvi Introduction

and set forth the arguments in brief and simple
fashion, so that the merits of the question may be
readily understood and easily appreciated.

The first step is to employ the process of elim-
ination which will free us from much extraneous
matter and from the repetition of many long and
bewildering lists of numbers. We can throw out first
all those essays of which the authorship has never
been questioned. We can then do the same with
certain others as to which the authorities are at
variance, but from which a little examination re-
moves all doubt. This done, there will be left a
small number of essays, which are the subject of
irreconcilable claims, and on which this controversy
really turns. The total number of essays, accord-
ing to modern numbering, and as agreed to by both
Hamilton and Madison, is eighty-five. Of these, the
following have never had their authorship disputed
by any one, and are to be thus assigned:

To Hamilton: i, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 22,
23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36,
59, 60, 61, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75,
76, 77> 78, 79> 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85,— in all, 49.

To Madison: 10, 14, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44,
45, 46, 47, 48,— in all, 14.

To Jay: 2, 3, 4, 5 — in all» 4-

This disposes of 67 numbers, and leaves 18 to be
still accounted for — i. e.: 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 49, 50,
51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 62, 63, 64.

We now come to the second class of essays, where
the authorship, after examination, can be fixed with
entire certainty. Number 17 is claimed for Madi-

Introduction xvii

son in one of his own lists (there are four from his
hand), and in one of the two Jefferson lists. Ham-
ilton claims it in all his own lists, and Madison con-
cedes it to Hamilton in three of his. When Madison
in any one of his four lists agrees with Hamilton
as to the authorship of any essay, it must be con-
sidered as settled. Number 1 7 therefore belongs to
Hamilton. All the Hamilton lists assign numbers
18, 19, and 20 to Hamilton and Madison jointly.
Two of the Madison lists give the authorship of
these three papers exclusively to Madison. One
Madison list and one Jefferson list give 18 and 19
exclusively to Madison, and 20 wholly to Hamilton.
In his fourth and last list Madison appends to No.
18 the following note: "The subject of this and the
two following numbers happened to be taken up
by both Mr. H. and Mr. M. What had been pre-
pared by Mr. H., who had entered more briefly into
the subject, was left with Mr. M., on its appearing
that the latter was engaged in it, with larger ma-
terials, and with a view to a more precise delinea-
tion, and from the pen of the latter the several
papers went to press." This note confirms Hamil-
ton's statement that these three papers were the
work of himself and Madison, and to them jointly
Nos. 18, 19, and 20 may therefore be credited with-
out any reserve. One Jefferson list and one Madi-
son list give No. 21 to Madison. Three Madison
lists and all the Hamilton lists give it to Hamilton.
No. 21, therefore, can be set down unhesitatingly to
Hamilton. No. 64 is claimed by Madison for him-
self in one of his lists; but in his three other lists,

xviii Introduction

and in one of the Jefferson lists, it is given to Jay.
In five of the Hamilton lists 64 is claimed for Ham-
ilton, and 54 is given to Jay. Chancellor Kent's
Hamilton list gives 64 to Jay, while the edition of
1 8 10 credits both 64 and 54 to Hamilton. Jay
claimed for himself Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, and 64, and the
MS. of 64 has been found among his papers and in
his own handwriting. There is therefore no longer
any doubt whatever as to 64, which can be given
with absolute certainty to Jay.1

The eighteen numbers left over from the first
sifting are now reduced to twelve. Two of the six
thus disposed of go to Hamilton, one goes to Jay,
and the other three (18, 19, and 20) to Hamilton
and Madison jointly. This makes Hamilton's total
51; Jay's, 5; Madison's, as before, 14; and Madi-
son's and Hamilton's jointly, 3. The twelve re-
maining numbers (49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57,
58, 62, and 63) are those over which the whole con-
troversy as to the authorship of the Federalist really
arises.

It now becomes necessary to notice briefly the
various authorities in regard to the disputed au-
thorship. The day before his fatal duel Hamilton
called at the office of his friend Egbert Benson, and
left there a slip of paper in his own handwriting,
which read as follows:

"Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 54, by J.

"Nos. 10, 14, 37 to 48 inclusive, M.

1 Hamilton's error as to No. 64 would seem to have been of long
standing, for in a note to the last number of Camillus he cer-
tainly suggests that he was himself the author of that essay. See
vol. vi., p. 186.

Introduction xix

"Nos. 18, 19, 20, M. & H. jointly.

"All the others by H."

Mr. Egbert Benson was absent when Hamilton
called, but Mr. Robert Benson, his nephew, was
present, saw the paper deposited by Hamilton in a
volume of Pliny, and afterwards examined it him-
self. Judge Benson on his return pasted the slip
thus left by Hamilton on the fly-leaf of his own
copy of the Federalist. Thence he removed it, after
making a copy, and presented it for safe-keeping to
the New York Public Library, where the paper re-
mained for some years. It was still there in 1818
when, in the controversy which then sprang up,
William Coleman, the editor of the New York
Evening Post, referred to it, and informed the public
that they could call and examine it. At some sub-
sequent time this valuable document was stolen, and
it has never been recovered. In 1 802-1 803 John C.
Hamilton, at the request and dictation of his father,
sent a list to Philip Church, a nephew of General
Hamilton, which agrees precisely with the Benson
list. In 1807 the executors of Hamilton's will de-
posited in the New York Public Library Hamilton's
copy of the Federalist in which the authorship
of the various numbers was said to be designated
in his own handwriting. Attention was called to
this fact by a letter in the Portfolio, attributed to
Chancellor Kent, who there gave from the copy
thus deposited a list of the authors, corresponding
exactly with the Benson list. In 18 10 an edition of
Hamilton's works was published in New York. The
second and third volumes contain the Federalist,

xx Introduction

and the author of each paper is designated, as we
are informed in the preface, " from a private mem-
orandum in his own [Hamilton's] handwriting."
The designation of authors in this edition is the
same as the Benson list, with one striking excep-
tion: No. 54 is given to Hamilton, and Jay is left
with only four numbers. This difference would in-
dicate either that the Portfolio list was wrongly
given, or that the editor of the 1810 edition had
some list of which nothing is now known.

In a copy of the Federalist belonging to Fisher
Ames, one of Hamilton's intimate friends, the au-
thors of the papers are designated in accordance
with the Benson list.

I have in my possession a copy of the Federal-
ist of the edition of 1802, which belonged to my
great-grandfather George Cabot, who, like Ames,
was a very close personal friend of Hamilton. To
the preface Mr. Cabot appended this note: " Those
by Mr. Jay and Mr. Madison are now marked in
this edition, those without a mark are from the pen
of Hamilton." The marking corresponds with that
of the edition of 18 10, from which it may have been
taken, and gives No. 54 to Hamilton as well as No.
64. In the second volume, however, Mr. Cabot has
wafered in a slip of paper giving a list of the au-
thors which corresponds exactly with the Benson
list.

Then there is a list made and preserved by Chan-
cellor Kent, which he says was revised by Hamil-
ton, and which differs from the Benson list by giving
64 instead of 54 to Jay and 49 and 53 to Madison

Introduction xxi

in addition to the fourteen assigned to him in the
other Hamilton lists.

Finally, there is the Washington list, which, so
far as I am aware, has never been published before,
and for which I am indebted to the kindness of John
R. Baker, Esq., of Philadelphia. At the sale of
Washington's library Mr. Baker purchased the Gen-
eral's copy of the Federalist, of the first edition
of 1788. On the fly-leaf of the first volume occurs
the following memorandum in Washington's well-
known handwriting:

"Mr. Jay was author of Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 54.

"Mr. Madison of Nos. 10, 14, and 37 to 48, ex-
clusive of the last.

"Nos. 18, 19, 20 were the production of Jay,
Madison, and Hamilton.

"All the rest of Gen. Hamilton/ '

Washington died in 1799. He speaks of Hamil-
ton, it will be observed, as " General," and that fixes
within a year the time when his list was written. It
must have been made up after July, 1798, and be-
fore December, 1799, and is therefore much the
earliest list we have. It contains some curious
variations from all the other lists, and these differ-
ences would seem to indicate that Washington made
it up from recollection of information derived sev-
eral years before from the authors. The striking
and important fact is that this, the earliest list,
drawn up by a singularly accurate man years before
there was any thought of controversy, agrees in the
main with the Benson list, and assigns the twelve
disputed numbers unhesitatingly to Hamilton.

xxii Introduction

We now come to the Madison lists. The first ap-
peared in the National Intelligencer, April 18, 1817,
in a letter signed ''Corrector," and was stated to
be from " indubitable authority- — a pencilled memo-
randum in the handwriting of Madison himself."
The second was given by Madison to Richard Rush
at about the same time apparently as that of "Cor-
rector." The third was published in the City of
Washington Gazette, December 15, 181 7, and was
stated "to be furnished by Madison himself." The
fourth appeared in Gideon's edition of the Federal-
ist, published at Washington in 18 18, and was
taken from Madison's notes in his own copy of the
work.1 These lists all agree in giving the twelve
disputed numbers to Madison, but they differ
among themselves as to other numbers in a very
marked degree.

There are two Jefferson lists. One was in his
copy of the Federalist, and corresponds with the
most erroneous Madison list, that furnished to the
Washington Gazette, while the other was given to his
friend Gideon Granger, and is identical with the
Benson list.2

The only information derived from Mr. Jay was
that he was the author of Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, and 64.

Thus we find that the two principal authors of
the Federalist are at variance as to the authorship
of twelve important numbers.

Having stated what the authorities are, it merely

1 This copy is now in the possession of the Government in the library
of Congress.

2 The Granger list is now in the possession of the Hon. Robert C Win-
throp, of Boston.

Introduction xxiii

remains to examine them. Suggestions have not
been wanting that the principal Hamilton list, that
of Benson, never existed. It is difficult to see how
any one could seriously entertain such an idea, but
in this inquiry I do not propose to pass over any
theory which has even been hinted at. In his
introduction to the Federalist which is marked by
the most extraordinary care, and is thorough to the
last degree in details, Mr. Dawson says that he had
an interview with Mr. Robert Benson, who was
present in the office when Hamilton came in and left
the memorandum, and from this eye-witness Mr.
Dawson received the whole story. Mr. Benson said
that he saw Hamilton and saw the list which was
in Hamilton's handwriting; that his uncle made a
copy of it, which still exists, and that his uncle then
deposited the original in the New York Public
Library. There, as has been said, the list remained
for many years. There it could have been and no
doubt was seen by any one who chose to look at it,
and in 1818 public attention was called to it and
everybody was invited to examine it. During all
those years its existence and its authenticity were
never questioned for a moment, even in the some-
what sharp controversy which then arose. To sup-
pose that it did not exist, is to assume that Egbert
Benson and his nephew were either liars or forgers,
or both, and the mere statement that such an as-
sumption is necessary, is sufficient to destroy at
once any theory that the Benson list never existed
in Hamilton's handwriting.

All the Hamilton lists agree except as to No. 54,

xxiv Introduction

which the edition of 1810 gives to Hamilton. Chan-
cellor Kent's list gives 64 to Jay, which is correct,
and 49 and 53 to Madison. As to the two last the
difference is peculiar, but the Chancellor corrected
his list in later years, and owing to the confusion
between the original and the modern numbering,
the changes as to 49 and 53 seem to lose significance,
especially as they are two of the first ten of the dis-
puted numbers, and these ten all coming consecu-
tively, must on any reasonable theory be assigned
to one or the other of the authors in a block.

The next step is to find out the errors of the dif-
ferent authorities as to the undoubted numbers, in
order to properly test their value as to those in dis-
pute. The one unquestioned error made by Ham-
ilton was as to number 54. He gave Jay his correct
total of five numbers but assigned him 54 instead
of 64. We are now trying the value of these lists
simply as documents by the ordinary rules of his-
torical evidence, and this error may be justly said
to impair their authority. This being admitted, let
us apply the same rules to the Madison lists. In
Gideon's edition of 181 8 Madison concedes 18, 19,
and 20 to be the joint work of Hamilton and him-
self, and gives 1 7 and 2 1 to Hamilton and 64 to Jay.
In his first list, that of the National Intelligencer, he
claims 18, 19, and 20 as exclusively his own work,
and also 64, which belonged to Jay. In the Rush
list Madison again claimed 18, 19, and 20 for him-
self alone. In the Washington Gazette list he takes
17, 18, 19, and 21 to himself, two of them being
joint and two belonging to Hamilton, and gives 20,

Introduction xxv

which was the third joint number, wholly to Ham-
ilton. The authority of the lists other than that of
the edition of 1818 cannot be questioned, for Madi-
son says in a letter to Gideon, dated August 20, 18 18
(Writings, iii., no): "It may, however, be proper,
perhaps, to observe that it [his copy lent to Gideon]
is not the only one containing the names of the
writers correctly prefixed to their respective papers.
I had, a considerable time ago, at the request of
particular friends, given the same advantage to
their copies.* '

In the Hamilton lists, then, we find two errors as
to two numbers, while in the Madison lists there are
twelve errors as to six numbers. Tried, therefore,
by the list of admitted errors, Hamilton's authority
is shown to be six times as good as that of Madison.
But this is not all. In 1807 the Benson list, or one
just like it, was published, and in 18 10 came the
edition of Hamilton's works, which gave four num-
bers to Jay, fourteen to Madison, and all the rest to
Hamilton. Yet it was not until 181 7 that the au-
thority of these assignments was publicly disputed
for the first time. Over ten years elapsed after
the publication in the Portfolio before Madison con-
tradicted Hamilton's list, which is a very serious
matter if we again apply the rules of evidence. The
excuse that it would not have been becoming in the
President to have entered upon a literary contro-
versy will not do, for the publication in the Port-
folio preceded Madison's elevation to the presidency
by nearly eighteen months, and there was certainly
no reason why a Secretary of State should not

xxvi Introduction

defend his copyright. There is still another point
which tells against Madison. In a letter to J. K.
Paulding, written in 183 1,1 as well as in an unpub-
lished memorandum 2 quoted by J. C. Hamilton in
the introduction to his edition of the Federalist,
Madison argues from internal evidence that he was
the author of certain of the disputed papers. This
would not have been done probably by a man who
had no doubt in his own mind as to the essays, and
it certainly would not be the course of any one who
had contemporary memoranda to guide and assure
him. Madison's argument from internal evidence
makes it clear that he compiled his list from memory.
There is no direct evidence that Hamilton did the
same, except from his error in regard to Jay's num-
ber on the treaty power. The probabilities, how-
ever, are strong that he also wrote his lists from
memory, and all the lists, therefore, stand on the
same footing in this respect.

The arguments from internal evidence on both
sides, whether by Madison or others, seem to be
for the most part worthless. One, for example, is
that No. 49 speaks in terms of praise of Jefferson,
and therefore could only have proceeded from
Madison. But the essays were written in 1788, and
in 1788 Hamilton knew Jefferson simply as a re-

1 Writings of Madison, iv., 176.

2 A careful search for this memorandum, which Mr. J. C. Hamilton
alleges, in his edition of the Federalist (p. C), to have been in the
State Department, has failed to reveal it. This is entirely unimport-
ant, however, as the memorandum merely differs verbally from the
argument in the letter to Paulding, which is of unquestioned authen-
ticity.

Introduction xxvii

volutionary leader, who was respected by all men,
and had never had any political quarrel with him.
Moreover, the essay, after quoting Jefferson and
praising him, goes on to refute his doctrine as to the
point in question. It is also said that 49 continues
48, and must therefore be by the same hand. But
this argument fails if we examine the undoubted
numbers. No. 9, for instance, is on "the utility of
the Union as a safeguard against domestic faction
and insurrection," while No. 10 is "the same sub-
ject continued," and No. 9 is by Hamilton and No.
10 by Madison. As to the historical examples cited
in the essays, Madison and Hamilton used the same
illustrations and drew from the same sources, as
may be seen from the notes and briefs of their
speeches. The differences in style are never suffi-
ciently marked to lead to any safe conclusions.

This much, as has already been said, may be as-
serted with confidence : that Hamilton and Madison
both relied upon their memories. We have there-
fore certain conflicting lists of the highest authority,
and if we go merely upon the documentary evidence
tried by the ordinary rules of historic evidence, the
balance inclines very strongly in favor of Hamilton.
The proportion of admitted errors, the ten years
without contradiction, and Madison's arguments
from internal evidence all tend to show in the
strongest way that Hamilton's memory was de-
cidedly the more accurate. But if we go beyond
the direct documentary evidence, the case is not
quite so clear. The best Hamilton list, that given
to Benson, was written in haste and at a most

xxviii Introduction

agitating moment. It contains one acknowledged slip
of the pen which gives 54 instead of 64 to Jay. As
an ingenious writer in the Historical Magazine (vol.
8, 306) suggests, "37 to 48 inclusive by M." may
have been another slip for "37 to 58 inclusive, by
M." The essays from 49 to 58 inclusive, all deal
with the same general subject of the popular element
in the Constitution, including representation in the
lower House, and on their face they certainly seem
to be from the same pen. Madison, in the letter to
Paulding just quoted, says that Hamilton's errors
were due, of course, to haste and a lapse of memory,
but if he himself was accused of errors they could
only be attributed to a want of veracity. This is
true to the extent that Madison gave time and
thought to his assignment and contradicted Hamil-
ton deliberately. Yet he, too, wrote from memory,
and in four lists he made twelve errors, which were
certainly owing to forgetfulness and not to untruth-
fulness.

The theory of the writer in the Historical Maga-
zine provides very comfortably for the ten numbers
from 49 to 58 inclusive, but it breaks down utterly
as to 62 and 63, the remaining two of the twelve in
dispute. As to these two I have very little doubt.
I think they both belong to Hamilton. They follow
three undoubted Hamilton numbers, and they treat
of the Senate, a subject on which Hamilton made a
most elaborate speech in the New York convention,
and the general line of thought and argument is
the same in both cases. It was, too, a topic to
which Hamilton had given particular attention, and

Introduction xxix

this may have been the reason that he fell into an
error as to number 64, which is concerned with the
treaty-making power of the Senate. As to every
doubtful number outside of the ten from 49-58,
Madison was in error, and this seems to me to be
fatally against him as to 62 and 63.

In regard to the disputed ten, I have been able to
come to no confident conclusion. Before I knew of
the Washington list, and before I had discovered a
curious addition to No. 56 in the edition of 1802, I
felt that the probabilities were in favor of Madison,
and I was inclined to assign those numbers to him,
although not so confidently as in giving 62 and 63
to Hamilton.

The Washington list, both from its date and the
character of its author, seems to me to tell very
strongly against Madison. The other point to which
I have just alluded in regard to number 56, has never
been noticed before, so far as I am aware. When
the edition of 1802 was in preparation, Hamilton
was asked to revise it, but declared, in the strong-
est terms, that the Federalist must be printed as it
was written, and he also insisted that full credit
should be -given to Mr. Jay and Mr. Madison in the
preface for the excellence of their work. The edi-
tion was revised, unquestionably, I think, as Mr.
Dawson has shown, by William Coleman, the editor
of the New York Evening Post. Many changes were
made, but, with one exception, they were utterly
unimportant, effected no improvement, and were
nearly all purely verbal. In number 56, however, in
treating of the regulation of the militia, a sentence

xxx Introduction

is inserted, as may be seen by referring to that num-
ber in this edition, which relates to the need of
local knowledge in dealing with such troops. This
sentence is a bit of military criticism, and could
hardly have been written by any but a military man,
for it would not have occurred to a civilian. It is
very unlikely indeed that it would have occurred to
Coleman, and he certainly would not have inserted
it without Hamilton's approbation. On the other
hand, there is little doubt that the proof-sheets of
this edition were seen by Hamilton, and the sen-
tence in question is very characteristic of Hamilton
and of his mode of thought. He was rigidly scru-
pulous as to changes in the Federalist and was
extremely particular as to the work of his fellow-
writers. Hopkins, the publisher of the edition of
1802, wrote to Mr. J. C. Hamilton that the most
scrupulous delicacy was observed in regard to the
essays of Madison and Jay, and that a portion of the
work was reprinted because a single favorite word
of Madison had been changed in one passage. It
is therefore in the highest degree improbable that
Hamilton would have added such an important sen-
tence himself, or permitted any one else to add it,
to an essay which he did not know to be his own.
The insertion of this sentence, therefore, points very
strongly to the conclusion that Hamilton, in 1802,
considered number 56 his own, not in a moment of
agitation and hurry, but when coolly examining
proof-sheets. If this was his opinion at that time
and under such circumstances as to number 56, it is
difficult to believe either that he was mistaken as to

Introduction xxxi

that number or as to the other twelve in dispute.
At the same time, the Washington list and the sen-
tence in number 56 are not, of course, conclusive,
and while these two bits of evidence have almost
removed my inclination to believe in Madison's
authorship of the disputed numbers, I am not even
yet completely satisfied that they are not his work.
The outcome of it all is that the evidence in regard
to the twelve disputed numbers is so conflicting that,
although the balance is strongly in Hamilton's favor
the best which can be done is to present the plain
facts and all the arguments as simply and clearly
as possible, and then leave every one to draw his
conclusions to suit himself. No one is entitled to
assign the disputed numbers to either Hamilton or
Madison with absolute confidence. They were surely
written by one or the other, and with that unsatis-
factory certainty we must fain be content.

II

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE " FEDERALIST' '

Protracted and minute search, supplemented by
widespread advertisements, and by the obliging aid
of many kind correspondents, has enabled me to add
only two editions to the list of editions of the Fed-
eralist already given by Mr. Dawson. In a few in-
stances where Mr. Dawson was able to speak of an
edition only from hearsay, I have succeeded in find-
ing a copy and in obtaining a full description of it.
This, however, is all, and the bibliography of the
Federalist which follows is in the main that of

xxxiv Introduction

instead of the usual date, appears "An 3? de la
Republique." This edition also is of the utmost
rarity.

IV. All that Mr. Dawson could say of the fourth
edition of the Federalist was that "it is said that
in the year 1799 a new edition of the Federalist was
published in New York." Mr. Dawson, after the
most exhaustive search, failed to find a copy, and
only heard of one, or what appeared to be one, in the
collection of Mr. Force, while his own volume was
passing through the press, and he was therefore com-
pelled to leave the existence of such an edition
largely a matter of conjecture. This gap can now
be filled. There is a copy of this edition, probably
unique, for the Force copy seems to have disap-
peared, in the possession of the Long Island His-
torical Society, and I am indebted to the kindness of
Mr. George Hannah, the librarian of the Society, for
my knowledge of its existence and for the following
copy of its title-page :

" The / Federalist / A Collection of / Essays /
Written in favour of the / New Constitution / As
agreed upon by the / Federal Convention / Septem-
ber 17, 1787 / In two volumes / Vol. I / Vol. II /
New York / Printed and sold by John Tiebout / No.
358 Pearl St. / 1799." It was simply a reprint of
the edition of 1788.

V. The fifth edition of the Federalist was pub-
lished, in two volumes, by George Hopkins, of New
York, in 1802. In this edition many changes, nearly
all verbal, were made in the text. As has been
stated above ("Authorship of the Federalist" p.

Introduction xxxv

xix.) the reviser of this edition was probably Wil-
liam Coleman, the editor of the New York Evening
Post. It was represented at the time and after-
wards that this edition had the benefit of Hamilton's
supervision. The one certain fact is that Hamilton
in the strongest terms forbade any alterations. The
result, due perhaps to this prohibition, was that the
changes and omissions were, with one marked ex-
ception already alluded to, quite immaterial. It
seems probable that Hamilton saw the proof-sheets,
but whether he thoroughly approved the changes
must remain a matter of conjecture. This edition
of 1802 is not rare.

VI. The sixth edition was published in 18 10 by
Williams and Whiting of New York, and formed the
second and third volumes of the Writings of Ham-
ilton. It was edited by John Wells, a distin-
guished member of the New York bar, and one of
Hamilton's personal friends. With but few and un-
important changes it followed the Hopkins edition
of 1802, although the text was said to have had the
benefit of the marginal notes made by Hamilton in
his own copy. The principal and the only new
feature of this edition was that the names of the re-
spective authors were appended to each essay. This
assignment of authorship corresponds with the Ben-
son list, except that No. 54, as well as No. 64, is
given to Hamilton. It is not a rare edition.

VII. The seventh edition of the Federalist was
a single octavo volume of some 477 pages, published
by Benjamin Warner of Philadelphia and William
Greer of Harrisburg, and is now not often met with.

xxxvi Introduction

It was a simple reproduction of the Williams and
Whiting edition of 1810.

VIII. The eighth edition, in one volume, was
issued in 181 8 by Benjamin Warner of Philadel-
phia, the publisher of the seventh, with which it was
identical, the only new feature being an appendix
containing the articles of Confederation and the Con-
stitution of the United States with the amendments.
This edition is rare.

IX. The ninth edition was a large octavo of 671
pages, and was published in 1818 by Jacob Gideon,
in Washington. It was claimed that this edition
had the sanction and approval of Madison. It cer-
tainly had the benefit of the notes made by him on
his own essays, and it contained his assignment of
the authorship of the various numbers. The text is
that of the Williams and Whiting edition of 18 10,
and the changes in Madison's essays are verbal and
unimportant. It contained, besides the Federalist,
prefatory remarks, and in the appendix, Ham-
ilton's " Letters of Pacificus," Madison's "Letters of
Helvidius," the articles of Confederation and the
Constitution of the United States. Copies of this
edition are not common.

X. The tenth edition was published by Jacob
Gideon at Washington in 182 1. It is a reprint of his
edition of 1818.

XI. The eleventh edition was the first of a series
of editions published at Hallowell, Maine, by Glazier
& Co., and their successors, who purchased the
Gideon copyright. Some of these editions are now
very rare, while others are not infrequently to be

Introduction xxxvii

met with. The first appeared in 1826. It is a
single volume octavo, of 582 pages, and is identical
with the Gideon editions of 1818 and 1821.

XII. The twelfth edition has no existence that
Mr. Dawson could discover, except in the pages of
the catalogue of the New York State Library. If it
existed, it was a Hallo well edition, and identical with
that of the preceding year. Mr. Homes, the li-
brarian, suggested to Mr. Dawson that the entry was
a misprint for 1837, the date of an undoubted Hallo-
well edition which was in the New York Library. Mr.
Homes writes me that no edition of 1827 has since
been found, and that the question stands as it did
in 1863, when Mr. Dawson discussed it. It seems
improbable that any such edition of 1827 ever existed.

XIII. The thirteenth was another Hallowell edi-
tion, identical with the Gideon edition and with that
of 1826. Mr. Dawson mentions the existence of
this edition, but had never seen or heard of a copy.
Mr. Hannah^informs me that there is a copy in the
possession of the Long Island Historical Society, and
I have heard of one other. It was published in 1831
by Glazier, Masters, & Co., and is apparently as rare
as one of the French editions.

XIV. The fourteenth edition was published in a
single volume, duodecimo, at Washington, in 1831.
Except for a few trifling changes and the addition
of an alphabetical index by Philip R. Fendall, a
member of the Washington bar, this edition was an
exact reprint of the Gideon edition, and was con-
sidered by the Hallowell publishers a violation of
their copyright.

xxxviii Introduction

XV. The fifteenth edition was published in one
volume, at Hallowell, by Glazier, Masters, & Smith,
in 1837. It was a reprint of the Gideon edition of
1818.

XVI. The sixteenth edition was a Portuguese
translation published by J. Villeneuve & Co. at Rio
de Janeiro in 1840. No copy is known to exist in
this country. The title-page, which is given by
Sabin, is as follows: "O Federalista, publicado em
inglez por Hamilton, Madisson e Jay cidadaos de
Nova- York, e traduzido emportuguez por. . . .
Rio de Janeiro: Typ. Imperial e Const, de J. Ville-
neuve & Co., 1840." I am indebted for my know-
ledge of this and the tenth edition mentioned above,
neither of which are given by Mr. Dawson, to Mr.
Paul Leicester Ford, author of the excellent Biblio-
theca Hamiltoniana, which has just appeared in a
handsome octavo volume.

XVII. The seventeenth was another Hallowell
edition, a reprint of the others from the same press,
and appeared in 1842.

XVIII. The eighteenth edition was published in
one volume by J. & G. S. Gideon, in Washington, in
1845. ^ was a reprint of the edition of 18 18, with
the addition of the index of the Washington edition
of 1 83 1, with some improvements. Mr. Dawson
failed to discover a copy of this edition, but I am
informed by Mr. P. L. Ford that there is a copy,
from which he has taken the title-page in his Biblio-
theca Hamiltoniana (p. 27), in the possession of his
father, Mr. Gordon L. Ford, of Brooklyn.

XIX. The nineteenth edition was published in one

Introduction xxxix

volume, in Philadelphia, by R. Wilson Desilver. It
was a reprint of the Gideon edition of 1818, with the
alphabetical index of 1831 and the addition of the
act of Congress of January 23, 1845, relating to
the election of President. It would seem to have
been a reprint of the preceding edition of 1845.

XX. The twentieth was a Hallo well edition, pub-
lished in 1852 by Masters, Smith, & Co., and was a
reprint of their other editions, with the addition of
an analytical index.

XXI. The twenty-first was also a Hallo well edi-
tion, published in 1857, and was an exact reprint of
its predecessor of 1852.

XXII. The twenty-second edition of the Fed-
eralist was printed for the editor, Mr. Henry B.
Dawson, at Morrisania, New York, and published in
1863. This edition, which is the most valuable one
hitherto published, was designed for two volumes,
of which the first alone has appeared. The volume
published contains the Federalist with the ori-
ginal notes of the authors, a most learned introduc-
tion discussing the history, bibliography, text, and
authorship of the essays, and a most admirable an-
alytical table of contents, supplemented by a com-
parative list, showing the authorship of the essays
as claimed by the various original authorities.

XXIII. The twenty-third or " University ' ' edi-
tion was published in one volume, at New York, by
Charles Scribner's Sons, in 1864. It was edited by
Mr. Dawson, and was a reprint of the first volume
of his larger edition, without the introduction.

XXIV. The twenty-fourth edition was published

xl Introduction

in one volume by J. B. Lippincott & Co., at Phila-
delphia, in 1864. This edition was edited by Mr. J.
C. Hamilton, and contains, besides the essays, a
table of contents, an historical notice, which dis-
cusses at length the history, text, and authorship
of the essays, the six numbers of the Continentalist
, the resolution of New York for a
general convention, a letter from Hamilton to Clin-
ton, May 14, 1783, resolution for a general conven-
tion , the address of the Annapolis convention
, Hamilton's speech on the Impost grant, reso-
lution for an act of Congress for a general convention,
February 17, 1787, resolution for the appointment
of New York delegates, February 26, 1787, the
articles of Confederation, Hamilton's first plan of
government, the federal Constitution as agreed
upon by the convention, a table of collated texts,
three essays by Philo-Publius (William Duer), and
an alphabetical index.

This concludes the list of editions of the Federalist
so far as I have been able to discover them. It
is quite possible that there have been others pub-
lished in this country or in Europe in addition to the
twenty-four described, but if this is the case, the
most careful inquiry and wide advertising have
failed to discover them.

Ill

THE TEXT OF THE FEDERALIST

>»

The essays of the Federalist were first printed
in the newspapers, and were then republished with-

Introduction xli

out substantial textual change in the McLean edi-
tion of 1788. In 1802, the Hopkins edition, de-
scribed above, appeared with many textual changes
in the essays written by Hamilton, and in 18 18 the
Gideon edition, with further changes in the Madison
essays. The new text of these two editions was
adopted in all subsequent editions, until the appear-
ance of the one published in 1863 by Mr. Dawson,
who reverted to the original text. Mr. John C.
Hamilton, in his edition a year later, adopted the
Hopkins and Gideon text. Thus it happens that
there are two texts of the Federalist which contend
for the honor of being the best and most authentic
version of these famous essays.

I have had no hesitation in deciding as to the text
to be adopted in this edition. Mr. Dawson's argu-
ment in favor of the original text is unanswerable,
and can be readily summarized. The essays of the
Federalist were written at a special time for a
special purpose. They formed an elaborate argu-
ment, intended to convince the people of the country
of the value and usefulness of the proposed Consti-
tution, and it is, therefore, historically essential that
we should have them in the precise form in which
they did their work.

The Federalist furthermore was the first au-
thoritative interpretation of the Constitution, and
was mainly written by the two principal authors of
that instrument. It was the first exposition of the
Constitution and the first step in the long process of
development which has given life, meaning, and im-
portance to the clauses agreed upon at Philadelphia.

xlii Introduction

It has acquired all the weight and sanction of a
judicial decision, and has been constantly used as an
authority in the settlement of constitutional ques-
tions. The essays of Publius are undoubtedly a
great work upon the general subject of political
federation, and if they were nothing else, textual
changes and improvements would be at least de-
fensible, if not wholly desirable. But changes cease
to be permissible when the writings in question are
not only essays on the general subject of political
federation and government under a written consti-
tution, but are also arguments intended to serve a
specific purpose at a particular time, which have
assumed the weight and sanctity of judicial inter-
pretation.

The authority for the most extensive changes,
moreover, is by no means clear. It is certain that
Hamilton opposed any alterations, and indeed for-
bade them. It is conceded also that the changes in
the edition of 1802 were not made by Hamilton,
with the exception probably of the paragraph in
No. 56, and the extent of his approval of them is a
matter of conjecture. The further slight changes in
the edition of 1818 have, it is true, the sanction of
Madison, but what we desire now is not Madison's
arguments in the phrases which he preferred in 18 18,
but in the words which he actually used in 1787 and
1788.

Finally, the changes were, as a rule, unimportant,
often trivial, with two or three exceptions, entirely
verbal, and, in my opinion, made no improvement.
The text of this edition, therefore, is the original

Introduction xliii

text of the newspapers and the McLean edition of
1788 as adopted by Mr. Dawson. I have added a
few notes giving the text of the subsequent changes
in every case where they seemed of the slightest im-
portance, or where, by any possible construction,
they could be considered to affect the meaning of the
passage.

In only one point is Mr. Dawson's edition as it
seems to me open to criticism, and in that point
alone does this edition depart from his text. The
McLean edition changed the original numbering of
the essays as they appeared in the newspapers. No.
35 of the newspapers was put back in the series and
numbered 29. This was a proper change, because
it placed the original No. 35 where it belonged in the
natural sequence of subjects and arguments. The
original Nos. 29 and 30 thus became 30 and 31, re-
spectively. Then the McLean edition divided the
original No. 31 into two parts, and numbered them
32 and ^t,. This change has no apparent reason, but
it is perfectly harmless and unimportant. The effect
of these changes was to advance the McLean essays
one number each over the newspaper originals up to
76, which became 77 in the book-form. The re-
maining essays, 78 to 85 inclusive, appeared first
from the author's manuscript in the McLean edition,
and were reprinted in the newspapers from that edi-
tion probably with the newspaper numbering, so
that no No. 85 ever appeared in the newspapers.
It is obvious that the McLean edition must have
had the approval of Hamilton, because the last eight
numbers were printed from his manuscript; and if

xliv Introduction

the edition had his sanction, of course the arrange-
ment and numbering must have had it also, for
these were the only points on which it differed from
the newspapers. It is clear, therefore, that Hamil-
ton thought the McLean numbering an improve-
ment, and the changes then made in this direction
have of course no effect whatever on the authority
of the Federalist either as argument or interpreta-
tion.

Mr. Dawson shows by an ingenious bit of reason-
ing that there was no " original number 77," and
accordingly omits that number from his edition, and
thus makes his last number 85. There is no ground,
as I have pointed out, for thus adhering to an enu-
meration which omits one number because there was
confusion in the differing forms of original publica-
tion, and which has no peculiar authority or sanc-
tion. There is, moreover, one fatal objection to Mr.
Dawson's system, in the fact that the numbering of
the McLean edition has been universally adopted in
all subsequent editions and has become the standard
of reference. It is to be regretted that Mr. Dawson,
in deference to rigid antiquarianism, should have
marred his edition by a numbering which, for no
substantial reason, differs from the accepted standard
and which, on this account and by omitting one
number altogether, makes intelligent reference to it
difficult, if not impossible.

The text of this edition, therefore, is, as I have said,
the untouched original text, and the essays are num-
bered according to what, in my opinion, is the origi-
nal arrangement, and which is certainly the best, as

Introduction xlv

it is the standard numbering, that of the first edition
of 1788.

In conclusion, I have only to express my thanks
to the many kind correspondents who have given
me information as to the Federalist and its edi-
tions, and to state my obligations to the work of Mr.
Dawson, to whose masterly introduction and ad-
mirable analytical table of contents this and all the
subsequent editions of the essays of Publius must
be largely indebted.

Henry Cabot Lodge.

May 2i, 1886.

THE FEDERALIST

THE FEDERALIST

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. I

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

After an unequivocal experience of the inefficiency
of the subsisting federal government, you are called
upon to deliberate on a new Constitution for the
United States of America. The subject speaks its
own importance ; comprehending in its consequences
nothing less than the existence of the UNION, the
safety and welfare of the parts of which it is com-
posed, the fate of an empire in many respects the
most interesting in the world. It has been fre-
quently remarked that it seems to have been
reserved to the people of this country, by their con-
duct and example, to decide the important question,
whether societies of men are really capable or not
of establishing good government from reflection
and choice, or whether they are forever destined to
depend for their political constitutions on accident
and force. If there be any truth in the remark, the
crisis at which we are arrived may with propriety
be regarded as the era in which that decision is to
be made; and a wrong election of the part we shall

a

4 Alexander Hamilton

act may, in this view, deserve to be considered as
the general misfortune of mankind.

This idea will add the inducements of philanthropy
to those of patriotism, to heighten the solicitude
which all considerate and good men must feel for the
event. Happy will it be if our choice should be
directed by a judicious estimate of our true interests,
unperplexed and unbiassed by considerations not
connected with the public good. But this is a thing
more ardently to be wished than seriously to be ex-
pected. The plan offered to our deliberations affects
too many particular interests, innovates upon too
many local institutions, not to involve in its discus-
sion a variety of objects foreign to its merits, and
of views, passions and prejudices little favorable to
the discovery of truth.

Among the most formidable of the obstacles which
the new Constitution will have to encounter may
readily be distinguished the obvious interest of a
certain class of men in every State to resist all
changes which may hazard a diminution of the
power, emolument, and consequence of the offices
they hold under the State establishments; and
the perverted ambition of another class of men,
who will either hope to aggrandize themselves by
the confusions of their country, or will flatter
themselves with fairer prospects of elevation from
the subdivision of the empire into several partial
confederacies than from its union under one gov-
ernment.

It is not, however, my design to dwell upon ob-
servations of this nature. I am well aware that it

The Federalist 5

would be disingenuous to resolve indiscriminately
the opposition of any set of men (merely because
their situations might subject them to suspicion)
into interested or ambitious views. Candor will
oblige us to admit that even such men may be actu-
ated by upright intentions ; and it cannot be doubted
that much of the opposition which has made its
appearance, or may hereafter make its appear-
ance, will spring from sources, blameless at least,
if not respectable — the honest errors of minds led
astray by preconceived jealousies and fears. So
numerous indeed and so powerful are the causes
which serve to give a false bias to the judgment, that
we, upon many occasions, see wise and good men on
the wrong as well as on the right side of questions of
the first magnitude to society. This circumstance,
if duly attended to, would furnish a lesson of modera-
tion to those who are ever so much persuaded of
their being in the right in any controversy. And a
further reason for caution, in this respect, might be
drawn from the reflection that we are not always
sure that those who advocate the truth are influenced
by purer principles than their antagonists. Ambi-
tion, avarice, personal animosity, party opposition,
and many other motives not more laudable than
these, are apt to operate as well upon those who
support as those who oppose the right side of a
question. Were there not even these inducements
to moderation, nothing could be more ill-judged than
that intolerant spirit which has, at all times, char-
acterized political parties. For in politics, as in
religion, it .is equally absurd to aim at making

6 Alexander Hamilton

proselytes by fire and sword. Heresies in either can
rarely be cured by persecution.

And yet, however just these sentiments will be
allowed to be, we have already sufficient indications
that it will happen in this as in all former cases of
great national discussion. A torrent of angry and
malignant passions will be let loose. To judge from
the conduct of the opposite parties, we shall be led
to conclude that they will mutually hope to evince
the justness of their opinions, and to increase the
number of their converts by the loudness of their
declamations and the bitterness of their invectives.
An enlightened zeal for the energy and efficiency of
government will be stigmatized as the offspring of a
temper fond of despotic power and hostile to the
principles of liberty. An over-scrupulous jealousy
of danger to the rights of the people, which is more
commonly the fault of the head than of the heart,
will be represented as mere pretence and artifice,
the stale bait for popularity at the expense of the
public good. It will be forgotten, on the one hand,
that jealousy is the usual concomitant of love, and
that the noble enthusiasm of liberty is apt to be in-
fected with a spirit of narrow and illiberal distrust.
On the other hand, it will be equally forgotten that
the vigor of government is essential to the security
of liberty ; that, in the contemplation of a sound and
well-informed judgment, their interest can never
be separated; and that a dangerous ambition more
often lurks behind the specious mask of zeal for
the rights of the people than under the forbidding
appearance of zeal for the firmness and efficiency

The Federalist 7

of government. History will teach us that the
former has been found a much more certain road
to the introduction of despotism than the latter,
and that of those men who have overturned the
liberties of republics, the greatest number have
begun their career by paying an obsequious court
to the people; commencing demagogues, and ending
tyrants.

In the course of the preceding observations, I have
had an eye, my fellow-citizens, to putting you upon
your guard against all attempts, from whatever
quarter, to influence your decision in a matter of
the utmost moment to your welfare, by any impres-
sions other than those which may result from the
evidence of truth. You will, no doubt, at the same
time, have collected from the general scope of them,
that they proceed from a source not unfriendly to the
new Constitution. Yes, my countrymen, I own to
you that, after having given it an attentive con-
sideration, I am clearly of opinion it is your interest
to adopt it. I am convinced that this is the safest
course for your liberty, your dignity, and your
happiness. I affect not reserves which I do not feel.
I will not amuse you with an appearance of delibera-
tion when I have decided. I frankly acknowledge
to you my convictions, and I will freely lay before
you the reasons on which they are founded. The
consciousness of good intentions disdains ambiguity.
I shall not, however, multiply professions on this
head. My motives must remain in the depository
of my own breast. My arguments will be open to
all, and may be judged of by all. They shall at

8 Alexander Hamilton

least be offered in a spirit which will not disgrace the
cause of truth.

I propose, in a series of papers, to discuss the fol-
lowing interesting particulars: — The utility of the
UNION to your political prosperity — The insuffi-
ciency of the present Confederation to preserve that
Union — The necessity of a government at least equally
energetic with the one proposed, to the attainment of
this object — The conformity of the proposed Constitu-
tion to the true principles of republican government —
Its analogy to your own State constitution — and lastly,
The additional security which its adoption will afford
to the preservation of that species of government, to
liberty, and to property.

In the progress of this discussion I shall endeavor
to give a satisfactory answer to all the objections
which shall have made their appearance, that may
seem to have any claim to your attention.

It may perhaps be thought superfluous to offer
arguments to prove the utility of the UNION, a
point, no doubt, deeply engraved on the hearts of
the great body of the people in every State, and one,
which it may be imagined, has no adversaries. But
the fact is, that we already hear it whispered in the
private circles of those who oppose the new Con-
stitution, that the thirteen States are of too great
extent for any general system, and that we must of
necessity resort to separate confederacies of distinct
portions of the whole.1 This doctrine will, in all prob-

1 The same idea, tracing the arguments to their consequences, is
held out in several of the late publications against the new Constitu-
tion.— Publius.

The Federalist 9

ability, be gradually propagated, till it has votaries
enough to countenance an open avowal of it. For
nothing can be more evident, to those who are able to
take an enlarged view of the subject, than the alter-
native of an adoption of the new Constitution or a
dismemberment of the Union. It will therefore be
of use to begin by examining the advantages of that
Union, the certain evils, and the probable dangers,
to which every State will be exposed from its disso-
lution. This shall accordingly constitute the sub-
ject of my next address.

Publius.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. II

(JAY)

To the People of the State of New York:

When the people of America reflect that they are
now called upon to decide a question, which, in its
consequences, must prove one of the most important
that ever engaged their attention, the propriety of
their taking a very comprehensive, as well as a very
serious, view of it, will be evident.

Nothing is more certain than the indispensable
necessity of government, and it is equally undeniable,
that whenever and however it is instituted, the
people must cede to it some of their natural rights,
in order to vest it with requisite powers. It is well
worthy of consideration therefore, whether it would
conduce more to the interest of the people of America

io Alexander Hamilton

that they should, to all general purposes, be one
nation, under one federal government, or that they
should divide themselves into separate confedera-
cies, and give to the head of each the same kind of
powers which they are advised to place in one na-
tional government.

It has until lately been a received and uncon-
tradicted opinion, that the prosperity of the people
of America depended on their continuing firmly
united, and the wishes, prayers, and efforts of our
best and wisest citizens have been constantly directed
to that object. But politicians now appear, who
insist that this opinion is erroneous, and that instead
of looking for safety and happiness in union, we
ought to seek it in a division of the States into
distinct confederacies or sovereignties. However
extraordinary this new doctrine may appear, it nev-
ertheless has its advocates; and certain characters
who were much opposed to it formerly, are at
present of the number. Whatever may be the argu-
ments or inducements which have wrought this
change in the sentiments and declarations of these
gentlemen, it certainly would not be wise in the
people at large to adopt these new political tenets
without being fully convinced that they are founded
in truth and sound policy.

It has often given me pleasure to observe, that in-
dependent America was not composed of detached
and distant territories, but that one connected, fer-
tile, wide-spreading country was the portion of our
western sons of liberty. Providence has in a par-
ticular manner blessed it with a variety of soils

The Federalist 1 1

and productions, and watered it with innumerable
streams, for the delight and accommodation of its
inhabitants. A succession of navigable waters forms
a kind of chain round its borders, as if to bind it to-
gether; while the most noble rivers in the world,
running at convenient distances, present them with
highways for the easy communication of friendly
aids, and the mutual transportation and exchange
of their various commodities.

With equal pleasure I have as often taken notice,
that Providence has been pleased to give this one
connected country to one united people — a people
descended from the same ancestors, speaking the
same language, professing the same religion, at-
tached to the same principles of government, very
similar in their manners and customs, and who, by
their joint counsels, arms, and efforts, fighting side
by side throughout a long and bloody war, have
nobly established general liberty and independence.

This country and this people seem to have been
made for each other, and it appears as if it was the
design of Providence, that an inheritance so proper
and convenient for a band of brethren, united to
each other by the strongest ties, should never be
split into a number of unsocial, jealous, and alien
sovereignties.

Similar sentiments have hitherto prevailed among
all orders and denominations of men among us. To
all general purposes we have uniformly been one
people; each individual citizen everywhere enjoy-
ing the same national rights, privileges, and protec-
tion. As a nation we have made peace and war ; as a

12 Alexander Hamilton

nation we have vanquished our common enemies ; as a
nation we have formed alliances, and made treaties,
and entered into various compacts and conventions
with foreign states.

A strong sense of the value and blessings of union
induced the people, at a very early period, to insti-
tute a federal government to preserve and perpetuate
it. They formed it almost as soon as they had a
political existence ; nay, at a time when their habita-
tions were in flames, when many of their citizens were
bleeding, and when the progress of hostility and
desolation left little room for those calm and ma-
ture inquiries and reflections which must ever pre-
cede the formation of a wise and well-balanced
government for a free people. It is not to be won-
dered at, that a government instituted in times so
inauspicious, should on experiment be found greatly
deficient and inadequate to the purpose it was in-
tended to answer.

This intelligent people perceived and regretted
these defects. Still continuing no less attached to
union than enamored of liberty, they observed the
danger which immediately threatened the former
and more remotely the latter; and being persuaded
that ample security for both could only be found in
a national government more wisely framed, they, as
with one voice, convened the late convention at
Philadelphia, to take that important subject under
consideration.

This convention, composed of men who possessed
the confidence of the people, and many of whom
had become highly distinguished by their patriotism,

The Federalist 13

virtue, and wisdom, in times which tried the minds
and hearts of men, undertook the arduous task. In
the mild season of peace, with minds unoccupied by
other subjects, they passed many months in cool,
uninterrupted, and daily consultation; and finally,
without having been awed by power, or influenced
by any passions except love for their country,
they presented and recommended to the people the
plan produced by their joint and very unanimous
councils.

Admit, for so is the fact, that this plan is only
recommended, not imposed, yet let it be remembered
that it is neither recommended to blind approbation,
nor to blind reprobation; but to that sedate and
candid consideration which the magnitude and im-
portance of the subject demand, and which it cer-
tainly ought to receive. But this (as was remarked
in the foregoing number of this paper) is more to be
wished than expected, that it may be so considered
and examined. Experience on a former occasion
teaches us not to be too sanguine in such hopes. It
is not yet forgotten that well-grounded apprehensions
of imminent danger induced the people of America
to form the memorable Congress of 1774. That
body recommended certain measures to their con-
stituents, and the event proved their wisdom; yet
it is fresh in our memories how soon the press began
to teem with pamphlets and weekly papers against
those very measures. Not only many of the officers
of government, who obeyed the dictates of personal
interest, but others, from a mistaken estimate of
consequences, or the undue influence of former

14 Alexander Hamilton

attachments, or whose ambition aimed at objects
which did not correspond with the public good, were
indefatigable in their efforts to persuade the people
to reject the advice of that patriotic Congress.
Many, indeed, were deceived and deluded, but the
great majority of the people reasoned and decided
judiciously; and happy they are in reflecting that
they did so.

They considered that the Congress was composed
of many wise and experienced men. That, being
convened from different parts of the country, they
brought with them and communicated to each other
a variety of useful information. That, in the course
of the time they passed together in inquiring into
and discussing the true interests of their country,
they must have acquired very accurate knowledge
on that head. That they were individually inter-
ested in the public liberty and prosperity, and there-
fore that it was not less their inclination than their
duty to recommend only such measures as, after the
most mature deliberation, they really thought pru-
dent and advisable.

These and similar considerations then induced the
people to rely greatly on the judgment and integrity
of the Congress; and they took their advice, not-
withstanding the various arts and endeavors used
to deter them from it. But if the people at large
had reason to confide in the men of that Congress,
few of whom had been fully tried or generally known,
still greater reason have they now to respect the
judgment and advice of the convention, for it is well
known that some of the most distinguished members

The Federalist 15

of that Congress, who have been since tried and
justly approved for patriotism and abilities, and
who have grown old in acquiring political informa-
tion, were also members of this convention and
carried into it their accumulated knowledge and
experience.

It is worthy of remark that not only the first, but
every succeeding Congress, as well as the late con-
vention, have invariably joined with the people in
thinking that the prosperity of America depended
on its Union. To preserve and perpetuate it was
the great object of the people in forming that con-
vention, and it is also the great object of the plan
which the convention has advised them to adopt.
With what propriety, therefore, or for what good
purposes, are attempts at this particular period
made by some men to depreciate the importance of
the Union? Or why is it suggested that three or
four confederacies would be better than one? I am
persuaded in my own mind that the people have
always thought right on this subject, and that their
universal and uniform attachment to the cause of
the Union rests on great and weighty reasons, which
I shall endeavor to develop and explain in some
ensuing papers. They who promote the idea of
substituting a number of distinct confederacies in
the room of the plan of the convention, seem clearly
to foresee that the rejection of it would put the
continuance of the Union in the utmost jeopardy.
That certainly would be the case, and I sincerely
wish that it may be as clearly foreseen by every good
citizen, that whenever the dissolution of the Union

1 6 Alexander Hamilton

arrives, America will have reason to exclaim, in the
words of the poet: " Farewell! a long Farewell
to all my Greatness."

Publius.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. Ill

(JAY)

To the People of the State of New York:

It is not a new observation that the people of any
country (if, like the Americans, intelligent and well-
informed) seldom adopt and steadily persevere for
many years in an erroneous opinion respecting their
interests. That consideration naturally tends to
create great respect for the high opinion which the
people of America have so long and uniformly en-
tertained of the importance of their continuing
firmly united under one federal government, vested
with sufficient powers for all general and national
purposes.

The more attentively I consider and investigate
the reasons which appear to have given birth to this
opinion, the more I become convinced that they are
cogent and conclusive.

Among the many objects to which a wise and free
people find it necessary to direct their attention, that
of providing for their safety seems to be the first.
The safety of the people doubtless has relation to a
great variety of circumstances and considerations,

The Federalist 17

and consequently affords great latitude to those who
wish to define it precisely and comprehensively.

At present I mean only to consider it as it re-
spects security for the preservation of peace and
tranquillity, as well as against dangers from foreign
arms and influence, as from dangers of the like kind
arising from domestic causes. As the former of
these comes first in order, it is proper it should be
the first discussed. Let us therefore proceed to
examine whether the people are not right in their
opinion that a cordial Union, under an efficient
national government, affords them the best security
that can be devised against hostilities from abroad.

The number of wars which have happened or will
happen in the world will always be found to be in
proportion to the number and weight of the causes,
whether real or pretended, which provoke or invite
them. If this remark be just, it becomes useful to
inquire whether so many just causes of war are
likely to be given by United America as by disunited
America; for if it should turn out that United
America will probably give the fewest, then it will
follow that in this respect the Union tends most to
preserve the people in a state of peace with other
nations.

The just causes of war, for the most part, arise
either from violations of treaties or from direct
violence. America has already formed treaties with
no less than six foreign nations, and all of them,
except Prussia, are maritime, and therefore able to
annoy and injure us. She has also extensive com-
merce with Portugal, Spain, and Britain, and, with

1 8 Alexander Hamilton

respect to the two latter, has, in addition, the cir-
cumstance of neighborhood to attend to.

It is of high importance to the peace of America
that she observe the laws of nations towards all
these powers, and to me it appears evident that
this will be more perfectly and punctually done by
one national government than it could be either by
thirteen separate States or by three or four distinct
confederacies.

Because when once an efficient national govern-
ment is established, the best men in the country will
not only consent to serve, but also will generally be
appointed to manage it; for, although town or
country, or other contracted influence, may place
men in State assemblies, or senates, or courts of jus-
tice, or executive departments, yet more general and
extensive reputation for talents and other qualifica-
tions will be necessary to recommend men to offices
under the national government, — especially as it
will have the widest field for choice, and never ex-
perience that want of proper persons which is not
uncommon in some of the States. Hence, it will
result that the administration, the political counsels,
and the judicial decisions of the national govern-
ment will be more wise, systematical, and judicious
than those of individual States, and consequently
more satisfactory with respect to other nations, as
well as more safe with respect to us.

Because, under the national government, treaties
and articles of treaties, as well as the laws of nations,
will always be expounded in one sense and executed
in the same manner, — whereas adjudications on the

The Federalist 19

same points and questions, in thirteen States, or in
three or four confederacies, will not always accord
or be consistent ; and that, as well from the variety
of independent courts and judges appointed by
different and independent governments, as from the
different local laws and interests which may affect
and influence them. The wisdom of the convention,
in committing such questions to the jurisdiction and
judgment of courts appointed by and responsible
only to one national government, cannot be too
much commended.

Because the prospect of present loss or advantage
may often tempt the governing party in one or two
States to swerve from good faith and justice; but
those temptations, not reaching the other States, and
consequently having little or no influence on the
national government, the temptation will be fruit-
less, and good faith and justice be preserved. The
case of the treaty of peace with Britain adds great
weight to this reasoning.

Because, even if the governing party in a State
should be disposed to resist such temptations, yet,
as such temptations may, and commonly do, result
from circumstances peculiar to the State, and may
affect a great number of the inhabitants, the gov-
erning party may not always be able, if willing, to
prevent the injustice meditated, or to punish the ag-
gressors. But the national government, not being
affected by those local circumstances, will neither
be induced to commit the wrong themselves, nor
want power or inclination to prevent or punish its
commission by others.

20 Alexander Hamilton

So far, therefore, as either designed or accidental
violations of treaties and the laws of nations afford
just causes of war, they are less to be apprehended
under one general government than under several
lesser ones, and in that respect the former most
favors the safety of the people.

As to those just causes of war which proceed from
direct and unlawful violence, it appears equally
clear to me that one good national government
affords vastly more security against dangers of that
sort than can be derived from any other quarter.

Because such violences are more frequently caused
by the passions and interests of a part than of the
whole ; of one or two States than of the Union. Not
a single Indian war has yet been occasioned by ag-
gressions of the present federal government, feeble
as it is; but there are several instances of Indian
hostilities having been provoked by the improper
conduct of individual States, who, either unable
or unwilling to restrain or punish offences, have
given occasion to the slaughter of many innocent
inhabitants.

The neighborhood of Spanish and British terri-
tories, bordering on some States and not on others,
naturally confines the causes of quarrel more imme-
diately to the borderers. The bordering States, if
any, will be those who, under the impulse of sudden
irritation, and a quick sense of apparent interest or
injury, will be most likely, by direct violence, to
excite war with these nations; and nothing can so
effectually obviate that danger as a national govern-
ment, whose wisdom and prudence will not be di-

The Federalist 21

minished by the passions which actuate the parties
immediately interested.

But not only fewer just causes of war will be given
by the national government, but it will also be more
in their power to accommodate and settle them
amicably. They will be more temperate and cool,
and in that respect, as well as in others, will be more
in capacity to act advisedly than the offending State.
The pride of states, as well as of men, naturally dis-
poses them to justify all their actions, and opposes
their acknowledging, correcting, or repairing their
errors and offences. The national government, in
such cases, will not be affected by this pride, but
will proceed with moderation and candor to con-
sider and decide on the means most proper to ex-
tricate them from the difficulties which threaten
them.

Besides, it is well known that acknowledgments,
explanations, and compensations are often accepted
as satisfactory from a strong united nation, which
would be rejected as unsatisfactory if offered by a
State or confederacy of little consideration or power.

In the year 1685, the state of Genoa having of-
fended Louis XIV., endeavored to appease him. He
demanded that they should send their Doge, or
chief magistrate, accompanied by four of their sena-
tors, to France, to ask his pardon and receive his
terms. They were obliged to submit to it for the
sake of peace. Would he on any occasion either
have demanded or have received the like humilia-
tion from Spain, or Britain, or any other powerful
nation? Publius.

22 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. IV

(JAY)

To the People of the State of New York:

My last paper assigned several reasons why the
safety of the people would be best secured by union
against the danger it may be exposed to by just
causes of war given to other nations; and those
reasons show that such causes would not only be
more rarely given, but would also be more easily
accommodated, by a national government than
either by the State governments or the proposed
little confederacies.

But the safety of the people of America against
dangers from foreign force depends not only on their
forbearing to give just causes of war to other nations,
but also on their placing and continuing themselves
in such a situation as not to invite hostility or insult ;
for it need not be observed that there are pretended
as well as just causes of war.

It is too true, however disgraceful it may be to
human nature, that nations in general will make
war whenever they have a prospect of getting any
thing by it ; nay, absolute monarchs will often make
war when their nations are to get nothing by it, but
for purposes and objects merely personal, such as
a thirst for military glory, revenge for personal af-
fronts, ambition, or private compacts to aggrandize
or support their particular families or partisans.
These and a variety of other motives, which affect
only the mind of the sovereign, often lead him to

The Federalist 23

engage in wars not sanctified by justice or the voice
and interests of his people. But, independent of
these inducements to war, which are more prevalent
in absolute monarchies, but which well deserve our
attention, there are others which affect nations as
often as kings; and some of them will on examina-
tion be found to grow out of our relative situation
and circumstances.

With France and with Britain we are rivals in the
fisheries, and can supply their markets cheaper than
they can themselves, notwithstanding any efforts to
prevent it by bounties on their own or duties on
foreign fish.

With them and with most other European nations
we are rivals in navigation and the carrying trade;
and we shall deceive ourselves if we suppose that
any of them will rejoice to see it flourish ; for, as our
carrying trade cannot increase without in some de-
gree diminishing theirs, it is more their interest, and
will be more their policy, to restrain than to promote
it.

In the trade to China and India, we interfere with
more than one nation, inasmuch as it enables us to
partake in advantages which they had in a manner
monopolized, and as we thereby supply ourselves
with commodities which we used to purchase from
them.

The extension of our own commerce in our own
vessels cannot give pleasure to any nations who pos-
sess territories on or near this continent, because the
cheapness and excellence of our productions, added
to the circumstance of vicinity, and the enterprise

24 Alexander Hamilton

and address of our merchants and navigators, will
give us a greater share in the advantages which
those territories afford, than consists with the wishes
or policy of their respective sovereigns.

Spain thinks it convenient to shut the Mississippi
against us on the one side, and Britain excludes us
from the Saint Lawrence on the other; nor will
either of them permit the other waters which are
between them and us to become the means of mu-
tual intercourse and traffic.

From these and such like considerations, which
might, if consistent with prudence, be more ampli-
fied and detailed, it is easy to see that jealousies and
uneasinesses may gradually slide into the minds and
cabinets of other nations, and that we are not to
expect that they should regard our advancement in
union, in power and consequence by land and by
sea, with an eye of indifference and composure.

The people of America are aware that inducements
to war may arise out of these circumstances, as well
as from others not so obvious at present, and that
whenever such inducements may find fit time and
opportunity for operation, pretences to color and
justify them will not be wanting. Wisely, there-
fore, do they consider union and a good national
government as necessary to put and keep them in
such a situation as, instead of inviting war, will tend
to repress and discourage it. That situation con-
sists in the best possible state of defence, and neces-
sarily depends on the government, the arms, and
the resources of the country.

As the safety of the whole is the interest of the

The Federalist 25

whole, and cannot be provided for without govern-
ment, either one or more or many, let us inquire
whether one good government is not, relative to the
object in question, more competent than any other
given number whatever.

One government can collect and avail itself of the
talents and experience of the ablest men, in whatever
part of the Union they may be found. It can move
on uniform principles of policy. It can harmonize,
assimilate, and protect the several parts and mem-
bers, and extend the benefit of its foresight and pre-
cautions to each. In the formation of treaties, it
will regard the interest of the whole, and the par-
ticular interests of the parts as connected with that
of the whole. It can apply the resources and power
of the whole to the defence of any particular part,
and that more easily and expeditiously than State
governments or separate confederacies can possibly
do, for want of concert and unity of system. It can
place the militia under one plan of discipline, and,
by putting their officers in a proper line of subordi-
nation to the Chief Magistrate, will, as it were, con-
solidate them into one corps, and thereby render
them more efficient than if divided into thirteen or
into three or four distinct independent companies.

What would the militia of Britain be if the Eng-
lish militia obeyed the government of England, if
the Scotch militia obeyed the government of Scot-
land, and if the Welsh militia obeyed the government
of Wales ? Suppose an invasion ; would those three
governments (if they agreed at all) be able, with all
their respective forces, to operate against the enemy

26 Alexander Hamilton

so effectually as the single government of Great
Britain would?

We have heard much of the fleets of Britain, and
the time may come, if we are wise, when the fleets
of America may engage attention. But if one na-
tional government had not so regulated the naviga-
tion of Britain as to make it a nursery for seamen —
if one national government had not called forth all
the national means and materials for forming fleets,
their prowess and their thunder would never have
been celebrated. Let England have its navigation
and fleet — let Scotland have its navigation and fleet
— let Wales have its navigation and fleet — let Ire-
land have its navigation and fleet — let those four of
the constituent parts of the British empire be under
four independent governments, and it is easy to per-
ceive how soon they would each dwindle into com-
parative insignificance.

Apply these facts to our own case. Leave Amer-
ica divided into thirteen or, if you please, into three
or four independent governments — what armies
could they raise and pay — what fleets could they
ever hope to have ? If one was attacked, would the
others fly to its succor, and spend their blood and
money in its defence? Would there be no danger
of their being flattered into neutrality by its spe-
cious promises, or seduced by a too great fondness
for peace to decline hazarding their tranquillity and
present safety for the sake of neighbors, of whom
perhaps they have been jealous, and whose import-
ance they are content to see diminished. Although
such conduct would not be wise, it would, neverthe-

The Federalist 27

less, be natural. The history of the states of Greece,
and of other countries, abounds with such instances,
and it is not improbable that what has so often
happened would, under similar circumstances, hap-
pen again.

But admit that they might be willing to help the
invaded State or confederacy. How, and when,
and in what proportion shall aids of men and money
be afforded? Who shall command the allied ar-
mies, and from which of them shall he receive his
orders? Who shall settle the terms of peace, and in
cace of disputes what umpire shall decide between
them and compel acquiescence? Various difficulties
and inconveniences would be inseparable from such
a situation ; whereas one government, watching over
the general and common interests, and combining
and directing the powers and resources of the whole,
would be free from all these embarrassments, and
conduce far more to the safety of the people.

But whatever may be our situation, whether
firmly united under one national government, or
split into a number of confederacies, certain it is,
that foreign nations will know and view it exactly
as it is; and they will act towards us accordingly.
If they see that our national government is efficient
and well administered, our trade prudently regulated,
our militia properly organized and disciplined, our
resources and finances discreetly managed, our credit
re-established, our people free, contented, and united,
they will be much more disposed to cultivate our
friendship than provoke our resentment. If, on
the other hand, they find us either destitute of an

28 Alexander Hamilton

effectual government (each State doing right or wrong,
as to its rulers may seem convenient), or split into
three or four independent and probably discordant
republics or confederacies, one inclining to Britain,
another to France, and a third to Spain, and perhaps
played off against each other by the three, what a
poor, pitiful figure will America make in their eyes!
How liable would she become not only to their con-
tempt, but to their outrage; and how soon would
dear-bought experience proclaim that when a people
or family so divide, it never fails to be against them-
selves.

Publius.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. V

(JAY)

To the People of the State of New York:

Queen Anne, in her letter of the ist July, 1706,
to the Scotch Parliament, makes some observations
on the importance of the Union then forming be-
tween England and Scotland, which merit our atten-
tion. I shall present the public with one or two
extracts from it: " An entire and perfect union will
be the solid foundation of lasting peace: It will se-
cure your religion, liberty, and property; remove the
animosities amongst yourselves, and the jealousies
and differences betwixt our two kingdoms. It must
increase your strength, riches, and trade ; and by
this union the whole island, being joined in affection

The Federalist 29

and free from all apprehensions of different interest,
will be enabled to resist all its enemies." " We most
earnestly recommend to you calmness and unanim-
ity in this great and weighty affair, that the union
may be brought to a happy conclusion, being the
only effectual way to secure our present and future
happiness, and disappoint the designs of our and
your enemies, who will doubtless, on this occasion,
use their utmost endeavors to prevent or delay this
union"

It was remarked in the preceding paper, that
weakness and divisions at home would invite dan-
gers from abroad ; and that nothing would tend
more to secure us from them than union, strength,
and good government within ourselves. This sub-
ject is copious and cannot easily be exhausted.

The history of Great Britain is the one with which
we are in general the best acquainted, and it gives
us many useful lessons. We may profit by their ex-
perience without paying the price which it cost them.
Although it seems obvious to common sense that the
people of such an island should be but one nation,
yet we find that they were for ages divided into
three, and that those three were almost constantly
embroiled in quarrels and wars with one another.
Notwithstanding their true interest with respect to
the continental nations was really the same, yet by
the arts and policy and practices of those nations,
their mutual jealousies were perpetually kept in-
flamed, and for a long series of years they were far
more inconvenient and troublesome than they were
useful and assisting to each other.

30 Alexander Hamilton

Should the people of America divide themselves
into three or four nations, would not the same thing
happen? Would not similar jealousies arise, and be
in like manner cherished? Instead of their being
''joined in affection " and free from all apprehension
of different "interests," envy and jealousy would
soon extinguish confidence and affection, and the
partial interests of each confederacy, instead of the
general interests of all America, would be the only
objects of their policy and pursuits. Hence, like
most other bordering nations, they would always be
either involved in disputes and war, or live in the
constant apprehension of them.

The most sanguine advocates for three or four
confederacies cannot reasonably suppose that they
would long remain exactly on an equal footing in
point of strength, even if it was possible to form
them so at first ; but, admitting that to be practica-
ble, yet what human contrivance can secure the
continuance of such equality? Independent of
those local circumstances which tend to beget and
increase power in one part and to impede its pro-
gress in another, we must advert to the effects of
that superior policy and good management which
would probably distinguish the government of one
above the rest, and by which their relative equality
in strength and consideration would be destroyed.
For it cannot be presumed that the same degree of
sound policy, prudence, and foresight would uni-
formly be observed by each of these confederacies
for a long succession of years.

Whenever, and from whatever causes, it might

The Federalist 31

happen, and happen it would, that any one of these
nations or confederacies should rise on the scale
of political importance much above the degree of
her neighbors, that moment would those neighbors
behold her with envy and with fear. Both those
passions would lead them to countenance, if not to
promote, whatever might promise to diminish her
importance; and would also restrain them from
measures calculated to advance or even to secure
her prosperity. Much time would not be necessary
to enable her to discern these unfriendly dispositions.
She would soon begin, not only to lose confidence in
her neighbors, but also to feel a disposition equally
unfavorable to them. Distrust naturally creates
distrust, and by nothing is good- will and kind con-
duct more speedily changed than by invidious jeal-
ousies and uncandid imputations, whether expressed
or implied.

The North is generally the region of strength, and
many local circumstances render it probable that the
most Northern of the proposed confederacies would,
at a period not very distant, be unquestionably more
formidable than any of the others. No sooner
would this become evident than the Northern Hive
would excite the same ideas and sensations in the
more southern parts of America which it formerly
did in the southern parts of Europe. Nor does it
appear to be a rash conjecture that its young swarms
might often be tempted to gather honey in the more
blooming fields and milder air of their luxurious and
more delicate neighbors.

They who well consider the history of similar

32 Alexander Hamilton

divisions and confederacies will find abundant
reason to apprehend that those in contemplation
would in no other sense be neighbors than as they
would be borderers ; that they would neither love
nor trust one another, but on the contrary would be
a prey to discord, jealousy, and mutual injuries; in
short, that they would place us exactly in the situa-
tions in which some nations doubtless wish to see us,
viz., formidable only to each other.

From these considerations it appears that those
gentlemen are greatly mistaken who suppose that
alliances offensive and defensive might be formed
between these confederacies, and would produce
that combination and union of wills, of arms, and of
resources, which would be necessary to put and keep
them in a formidable state of defence against foreign
enemies.

When did the independent states, into which
Britain and Spain were formerly divided, combine
in such alliance, or unite their forces against a for-
eign enemy? The proposed confederacies will be
distinct nations. Each of them would have its com-
merce with foreigners to regulate by distinct treat-
ies; and as their productions and commodities are
different and proper for different markets, so would
those treaties be essentially different. Different
commercial concerns must create different interests,
and of course different degrees of political attach-
ment to and connection with different foreign na-
tions. Hence it might and probably would happen
that the foreign nation with whom the Southern con-
federacy might be at war would be the one with

The Federalist 33

whom the Northern confederacy would be the most
desirous of preserving peace and friendship. An
alliance so contrary to their immediate interest
would not therefore be easy to form, nor, if formed,
would it be observed and fulfilled with perfect good
faith.

Nay, it is far more probable that in America, as
in Europe, neighboring nations, acting under the
impulse of opposite interests and unfriendly pas-
sions, would frequently be found taking different
sides. Considering our distance from Europe, it
would be more natural for these confederacies to
apprehend danger from one another than from dis-
tant nations, and therefore that each of them should
be more desirous to guard against the others by the
aid of foreign alliances, than to guard against foreign
dangers by alliances between themselves. And here
let us not forget how much more easy it is to receive
foreign fleets into our ports, and foreign armies into
our country, than it is to persuade or compel them
to depart. How many conquests did the Romans
and others make in the character of allies, and what
innovations did they under the same character in-
troduce into the governments of those whom they
pretended to protect.

Let candid men judge, then, whether the division
of America into any given number of independent
sovereignties would tend to secure us against the
hostilities and improper interference of foreign
nations.

PUBLIUS.

34 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. VI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The three last numbers of this paper have been
dedicated to an enumeration of the dangers to which
we should be exposed, in a state of disunion, from
the arms and arts of foreign nations. I shall now
proceed to delineate dangers of a different and, per-
haps, still more alarming kind — those which will
in all probability flow from dissensions between the
States themselves, and from domestic factions and
convulsions. These have been already in some
instances slightly anticipated; but they deserve a
more particular and more full investigation.

A man must be far gone in Utopian speculations
who can seriously doubt that, if these States should
either be wholly disunited, or only united in partial
confederacies, the subdivisions into which they
might be thrown would have frequent and violent
contests with each other. To presume a want of
motives for such contests as an argument against
their existence, would be to forget that men are
ambitious, vindictive, and rapacious. To look for
a continuation of harmony between a number of in-
dependent, unconnected sovereignties in the same
neighborhood, would be to disregard the uniform
course of human events, and to set at defiance the
accumulated experience of ages.

The causes of hostility among nations are innu-
merable. There are some which have a general and

The Federalist 35

almost constant operation upon the collective bodies
of society. Of this description are the love of power
or the desire of pre-eminence and dominion — the
jealousy of power, or the desire of equality and
safety. There are others which have a more cir-
cumscribed though an equally operative influence
within their spheres. Such are the rivalships and
competitions of commerce between commercial na-
tions. And there are others, not less numerous than
either of the former, which take their origin entirely
in private passions ; in the attachments, enmities,
interests, hopes, and fears of leading individuals in
the communities of which they are members. Men
of this class, whether the favorites of a king or of a
people, have in too many instances abused the con-
fidence they possessed ; and assuming the pretext of
some public motive, have not scrupled to sacrifice
the national tranquillity to personal advantage or
personal gratification.

The celebrated Pericles, in compliance with the
resentment of a prostitute,1 at the expense of much
of the blood and treasure of his countrymen, at-
tacked, vanquished, and destroyed the city of the
Samnians. The same man, stimulated by private
pique against the Megarensians* another nation of
Greece, or to avoid a prosecution with which he was
threatened as an accomplice in a supposed theft of
the statuary Phidias,3 or to get rid of the accusations
prepared to be brought against him for dissipating

1 Aspasia, vide Plutarch's Life of Pericles. — Publius.

2 Ibid. — Publius.

3 Ibid. — Publius.

36 Alexander Hamilton

the funds of the state in the purchase of popularity,1
or from a combination of all these causes, was the
primitive author of that famous and fatal war, dis-
tinguished in the Grecian annals by the name of the
Peloponnesian war; which, after various vicissitudes,
intermissions, and renewals, terminated in the ruin
of the Athenian commonwealth.

The ambitious cardinal, who was prime minister
to Henry VIII. , permitting his vanity to aspire to
the triple crown,2 entertained hopes of succeeding in
the acquisition of that splendid prize by the influence
of the Emperor Charles V. To secure the favor and
interest of this enterprising and powerful monarch,
he precipitated England into a war with France,
contrary to the plainest dictates of policy, and at
the hazard of the safety and independence, as well
of the kingdom over which he presided by his coun-
sels, as of Europe in general. For if there ever was
a sovereign who bid fair to realize the project of uni-
versal monarchy, it was the Emperor Charles V., of
whose intrigues Wolsey was at once the instrument
and the dupe.

The influence which the bigotry of one female,3
the petulance of another,4 and the cabals of a third,5
had in the contemporary policy, ferments, and paci-
fications, of a considerable part of Europe, are topics

1 Plutarch's Life of Pericles. Phidias was supposed to have stolen
some public gold, with the connivance of Pericles, for the embellish-
ment of the statue of Minerva. — Publius.

2 Worn by the popes. — Publius.

3 Madame de Maintenon. — Publius.

4 Duchess of Marlborough. — Publius.

5 Madame de Pompadour. — Publius.

The Federalist 37

that have been too often descanted upon not to be
generally known.

To multiply examples of the agency of personal
considerations in the production of great national
events, either foreign or domestic, according to their
direction, would be an unnecessary waste of time.
Those who have but a superficial acquaintance with
the sources from which they are to be drawn, will
themselves recollect a variety of instances; and
those who have a tolerable knowledge of human
nature will not stand in need of such lights, to form
their opinion either of the reality or extent of that
agency. Perhaps, however, a reference, tending to
illustrate the general principle, may with propriety
be made to a case which has lately happened among
ourselves. If Shays had not been a desperate debtor,
it is much to be doubted whether Massachusetts
would have been plunged into a civil war.

But notwithstanding the concurring testimony of
experience, in this particular, there are still to be
found visionary or designing men, who stand ready to
advocate the paradox of perpetual peace between the
States, though dismembered and alienated from each
other. The genius of republics (say they) is pacific ;
the spirit of commerce has a tendency to soften the
manners of men, and to extinguish those inflammable
humors which have so often kindled into wars. Com-
mercial republics, like ours, will never be disposed to
waste themselves in ruinous contentions with each
other. They will be governed by mutual interest, and
will cultivate a spirit of mutual amity and concord.

Is it not (we may ask these projectors in politics)

38 Alexander Hamilton

the true interest of all nations to cultivate the same
benevolent and philosophic spirit? If this be their
true interest, have they in fact pursued it? Has it
not, on the contrary, invariably been found that
momentary passions, and immediate interests, have
a more active and imperious control over human
conduct than general or remote considerations of
policy, utility, or justice? Have republics in prac-
tice been less addicted to war than monarchies?
Are not the former administered by men as well as
the latter? Are there not aversions, predilections,
rivalships, and desires of unjust acquisitions, that
affect nations as well as kings ? Are not popular as-
semblies frequently subject to the impulses of rage,
resentment, jealousy, avarice, and of other irregular
and violent propensities ? Is it not well known that
their determinations are often governed by a few in-
dividuals in whom they place confidence, and are, of
course, liable to be tinctured by the passions and
views of those individuals? Has commerce hitherto
done any thing more than change the objects of war?
Is not the love of wealth as domineering and enter-
prising a passion as that of power or glory? Have
there not been as many wars founded upon com-
mercial motives since that has become the prevailing
system of nations, as were before occasioned by the
cupidity of territory or dominion? Has not the
spirit of commerce, in many instances, administered
new incentives to the appetite, both for the one and
for the other? Let experience, the least fallible
guide of human opinions, be appealed to for an an-
swer to these inquiries.

The Federalist 39

Sparta, Athens, Rome, and Carthage were all re-
publics; two of them, Athens and Carthage, of the
commercial kind. Yet were they as often engaged
in wars, offensive and defensive, as the neighboring
monarchies of the same times. Sparta was little
better than a well-regulated camp; and Rome was
never sated of carnage and conquest.

Carthage, though a commercial republic, was the
aggressor in the very war that ended in her destruc-
tion. Hannibal had carried her arms into the heart
of Italy and to the gates of Rome, before Scipio, in
turn, gave him an overthrow in the territories of
Carthage, and made a conquest of the common-
wealth.

Venice, in later times, figured more than once in
wars of ambition, till, becoming an object to the
other Italian states, Pope Julius II. found means to
accomplish that formidable league,1 which gave a
deadly blow to the power and pride of this haughty
republic.

The provinces of Holland, till they were over-
whelmed in debts and taxes, took a leading and con-
spicuous part in the wars of Europe. They had
furious contests with England for the dominion of
the sea, and were among the most persevering and
most implacable of the opponents of Louis XIV.

In the government of Britain the representa-
tives of the people compose one branch of the na-
tional legislature. Commerce has been for ages the

1 The League of Cambray, comprehending the Emperor, the King of
France, the King of Aragon, and most of the Italian princes and states.
— Publius.

40 Alexander Hamilton

predominant pursuit of that country. Few nations,
nevertheless, have been more frequently engaged in
war; and the wars in which that kingdom has been
engaged have, in numerous instances, proceeded
from the people.

There have been, if I may so express it, almost as
many popular as royal wars. The cries of the nation
and the importunities of their representatives have,
upon various occasions, dragged their monarchs into
War, or continued them in it, contrary to their in-
clinations, and sometimes contrary to the real in-
terests of the state. In that memorable struggle for
superiority between the rival houses of Austria and
Bourbon, which so long kept Europe in a flame, it
is well known that the antipathies of the English
against the French, seconding the ambition, or
rather the avarice, of a favorite leader,1 protracted
the war beyond the limits marked out by sound
policy, and for a considerable time in opposition to
the views of the court.

The wars of these two last-mentioned nations have
in a great measure grown out of commercial con-
siderations,— the desire of supplanting and the fear
of being supplanted, either in particular branches
of traffic or in the general advantages of trade and
navigation.2

xThe Duke of Marlborough. — Publius.

2 In the text said to have been revised by Hamilton and Madison,
and adopted by Mr. J. C. Hamilton, the following additional sentences
occur at this point: "and sometimes even the more culpable desire
of sharing in the commerce of other nations without their consent.
The last war but two between Britain and Spain sprang from the at-
tempts of the English merchants to prosecute an illicit trade with the

The Federalist 41

From this summary of what has taken place in
other countries, whose situations have borne the
nearest resemblance to our own, what reason can
we have to confide in those reveries which would
seduce us into an expectation of peace and cordiality
between the members of the present confederacy,
in a state of separation ? Have we not already seen
enough of the fallacy and extravagance of those idle
theories which have amused us with promises of an
exemption from the imperfections, weaknesses, and
evils incident to society in every shape? Is it not
time to awake from the deceitful dream of a golden
age, and to adopt as a practical maxim for the di-
rection of our political conduct that we, as well as
the other inhabitants of the globe, are yet remote
from the happy empire of perfect wisdom and perfect
virtue ?

Let the point of extreme depression to which our
national dignity and credit have sunk, let the incon-
veniences felt everywhere from a lax and ill ad-
ministration of government, let the revolt of a part

Spanish main. These unjustifiable practices on their part produced
severity on the part of the Spaniards towards the subjects of Great
Britain which were not more justifiable, because they exceeded the
bounds of a just retaliation and were chargeable with inhumanity and
cruelty. Many of the English who were taken on the Spanish coast
were sent to dig in the mines of Potosi; and by the usual progress
of a spirit of resentment, the innocent were, after a while, confounded
with the guilty in indiscriminate punishment. The complaints of the
merchants kindled a violent flame throughout the nation, which soon
after broke out in the House of Commons, and was communicated
from that body to the ministry. Letters of reprisal were granted,
and a war ensued, which in its consequences overthrew all the alliances
that but twenty years before had been formed with sanguine expecta-
tions of the most beneficial fruits."

42 Alexander Hamilton

of the State of North Carolina, the late menacing
disturbances in Pennsylvania, and the actual in-
surrections and rebellions in Massachusetts, de-
clare !

So far is the general sense of mankind from cor-
responding with the tenets of those who endeavor
to lull asleep our apprehensions of discord and hos-
tility between the States, in the event of disunion,
that it has from long observation of the progress of
society become a sort of axiom in politics, that vi-
cinity, or nearness of situation, constitutes nations
natural enemies. An intelligent writer expresses
himself on this subject to this effect: " Neighbor-
ing nations [says he] are naturally enemies of each
other, unless their common weakness forces them to
league in a con federative republic, and their con-
stitution prevents the differences that neighborhood
occasions, extinguishing that secret jealousy which
disposes all states to aggrandize themselves at the ex-
pense of their neighbors."1 This passage, at the
same time, points out the evil and suggests the

REMEDY.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. VII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It is sometimes asked, with an air of seeming tri-
umph, what inducements could the States have, if

*Vide Principes des Negotiations par l'Abb6 de Mably. — Publius.

The Federalist 43

disunited, to make war upon each other? It would
be a full answer to this question to say — precisely
the same inducements which have, at different times,
deluged in blood all the nations in the world. But,
unfortunately for us, the question admits of a more
particular answer. There are causes of differences
within our immediate contemplation, of the tend-
ency of which, even under the restraints of a federal
constitution, we have had sufficient experience to
enable us to form a judgment of what might be ex-
pected if those restraints were removed.

Territorial disputes have at all times been found
one of the most fertile sources of hostility among
nations. Perhaps the greatest proportion of wars
that have desolated the earth have sprung from this
origin. This cause would exist among us in full
force. We have a vast tract of unsettled territory
within the boundaries of the United States. There
still are discordant and undecided claims between
several of them, and the dissolution of the Union
would lay a foundation for similar claims between
them all. It is well known that they have heretofore
had serious and animated discussion concerning the
rights to the lands which were ungranted at the time
of the Revolution, and which usually went under the
name of crown lands. The States within the limits
of whose colonial governments they were comprised
have claimed them as their property, the others have
contended that the rights of the crown in this article
devolved upon the Union; especially as to all that
part of the Western territory which, either by actual
possession, or through the submission of the Indian

44 Alexander Hamilton

proprietors, was subjected to the jurisdiction of the
king of Great Britain, till it was relinquished in the
treaty of peace. This, it has been said, was at all
events an acquisition to the Confederacy by com-
pact with a foreign power. It has been the prudent
policy of Congress to appease this controversy, by
prevailing upon the States to make cessions to the
United States for the benefit of the whole. This has
been so far accomplished as, under a continuation of
the Union, to afford a decided prospect of an ami-
cable termination of the dispute. A dismemberment
of the Confederacy, however, would revive this dis-
pute, and would create others on the same subject.
At present, a large part of the vacant Western terri-
tory is, by cession at least, if not by any anterior
right, the common property of the Union. If that
were at an end, the States which made the cession,
on a principle of federal compromise, would be apt,
when the motive of the grant had ceased, to reclaim
the lands as a reversion. The other States would
no doubt insist on a proportion, by right of repre-
sentation. Their argument would be, that a grant,
once made, could not be revoked; and that the jus-
tice of participating in territory acquired or secured
by the joint efforts of the Confederacy, remained un-
diminished. If, contrary to probability, it should
be admitted by all the States, that each had a right
to a share of this common stock, there would still be
a difficulty to be surmounted, as to a proper rule of
apportionment. Different principles would be set up
by different States for this purpose; and as they
would affect the opposite interests of the parties, they

The Federalist 45

might not easily be susceptible of a pacific adjust-
ment.

In the wide field of Western territory, therefore,
we perceive an ample theatre for hostile pretensions,
without any umpire or common judge to interpose
between the contending parties. To reason from the
past to the future, we shall have good ground to
apprehend, that the sword would sometimes be ap-
pealed to as the arbiter of their differences. The cir-
cumstances of the dispute between Connecticut and
Pennsylvania, respecting the land at Wyoming, ad-
monish us not to be sanguine in expecting an easy
accommodation of such differences. The articles
of confederation obliged the parties to submit the
matter to the decision of a federal court. The sub-
mission was made, and the court decided in favor
of Pennsylvania. But Connecticut gave strong in-
dications of dissatisfaction with that determination;
nor did she appear to be entirely resigned to it, till,
by negotiation and management, something like an
equivalent was found for the loss she supposed her-
self to have sustained. Nothing here said is intended
to convey the slightest censure on the conduct of
that State. She no doubt sincerely believed herself
to have been injured by the decision; and States, like
individuals, acquiesce with great reluctance in deter-
minations to their disadvantage.

Those who had an opportunity of seeing the in-
side of the transactions which attended the progress
of the controversy between this State and the dis-
trict of Vermont, can vouch the opposition we ex-
perienced, as well from States not interested as from

46 Alexander Hamilton

those which were interested in the claim; and can
attest the danger to which the peace of the Con-
federacy might have been exposed, had this State
attempted to assert its rights by force. Two mo-
tives preponderated in that opposition: one, a
jealousy entertained of our future power; and the
other, the interest of certain individuals of influence
in the neighboring States, who had obtained grants
of lands under the actual government of that dis-
trict. Even the States which brought forward
claims, in contradiction to ours, seemed more solici-
tous to dismember this State, than to establish their
own pretensions. These were New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, and Connecticut. New Jersey and
Rhode Island, upon all occasions, discovered a warm
zeal for the independence of Vermont; and Mary-
land, till alarmed by the appearance of a connection
between Canada and that State, entered deeply into
the same views. These being small States, saw
with an unfriendly eye the perspective of our grow-
ing greatness. In a review of these transactions we
may trace some of the causes which would be likely
to embroil the States with each other, if it should be
their unpropitious destiny to become disunited.

The competitions of commerce would be another
fruitful source of contention. The States less favor-
ably circumstanced would be desirous of escaping
from the disadvantages of local situation, and of
sharing in the advantages of their more fortunate
neighbors. Each State, or separate confederacy,
would pursue a system of commercial policy pecu-
liar to itself. This would occasion distinctions,

The Federalist 47

preferences, and exclusions, which would beget dis-
content. The habits of intercourse, on the basis of
equal privileges, to which we have been accustomed
since the earliest settlement of the country, would
give a keener edge to those causes of discontent than
they would naturally have independent of this cir-
cumstance. We should be ready to denominate in-
juries those things which were in reality the justifiable
acts of independent sovereignties consulting a distinct
interest. The spirit of enterprise, which character-
izes the commercial part of America, has left no
occasion of displaying itself unimproved. It is not
at all probable that this unbridled spirit would pay
much respect to those regulations of trade by which
particular States might endeavor to secure exclusive
benefits to their own citizens. The infractions of
these regulations, on one side, the efforts to prevent
and repel them, on the other, would naturally lead
to outrages, and these to reprisals and wars.

The opportunities which some States would have
of rendering others tributary to them by commercial
regulations would be impatiently submitted to by
the tributary States. The relative situation of New
York, Connecticut, and New Jersey, would afford
an example of this kind. New York, from the neces-
sities of revenue, must lay duties on her importations.
A great part of these duties must be paid by the in-
habitants of the two other States in the capacity of
consumers of what we import. New York would
neither be willing nor able to forego this advantage.
Her citizens would not consent that a duty paid by
them should be remitted in favor of the citizens of

48 Alexander Hamilton

her neighbors; nor would it be practicable, if there
were not this impediment in the way, to distinguish
the customers in our own markets. Would Con-
necticut and New Jersey long submit to be taxed by
New York for her exclusive benefit? Should we
be long permitted to remain in the quiet and undis-
turbed enjoyment of a metropolis, from the posses-
sion of which we derived an advantage so odious to
our neighbors, and, in their opinion, so oppressive?
Should we be able to preserve it against the incum-
bent weight of Connecticut on the one side, and the
co-operating pressure of New Jersey on the other?
These are questions that temerity alone will answer
in the affirmative.

The public debt of the Union would be a further
cause of collision between the separate States or
confederacies. The apportionment, in the first in-
stance, and the progressive extinguishment after-
ward, would be alike productive of ill-humor and
animosity. How would it be possible to agree upon
a rule of apportionment satisfactory to all? There
is scarcely any that can be proposed which is entirely
free from real objections. These, as usual, would
be exaggerated by the adverse interest of the parties.
There are even dissimilar views among the States as
to the general principle of discharging the public
debt. Some of them, either less impressed with the
importance of national credit, or because their citi-
zens have little, if any, immediate interest in the
question, feel an indifference, if not a repugnance,
to the payment of the domestic debt at any rate.
These would be inclined to magnify the difficulties

The Federalist 49

of a distribution. Others of them, a numerous body
of whose citizens are creditors to the public beyond
the proportion of the State in the total amount of
the national debt, would be strenuous for some
equitable and effective provision. The procrastina-
tions of the former would excite the resentments of
the latter. The settlement of a rule would, in the
meantime, be postponed by real differences of opin-
ion and affected delays. The citizens of the States in-
terested would clamor ; foreign powers would urge for
the satisfaction of their just demands, and the peace
of the States would be hazarded to the double contin-
gency of external invasion and internal contention.
Suppose the difficulties of agreeing upon a rule
surmounted, and the apportionment made. Still
there is great room to suppose that the rule agreed
upon would, upon experiment, be found to bear
harder upon some States than upon others. Those
which were sufferers by it would naturally seek for
a mitigation of the burden. The others would as
naturally be disinclined to a revision, which was
likely to end in an increase of their own incum-
brances. Their refusal would be too plausible a
pretext to the complaining States to withhold their
contributions, not to be embraced with avidity ; and
the non-compliance of these States with their en-
gagements would be a ground of bitter discussion
and altercation. If even the rule adopted should
in practice justify the equality of its principle, still
delinquencies in payments on the part of some of the
States would result from a diversity of other causes —
the real deficiency of resources ; the mismanagement

VOL. XI.— 4.

50 Alexander Hamilton

of their finances; accidental disorders in the man-
agement of the government; and, in addition to
the rest, the reluctance with which men commonly
part with money for purposes that have out-lived
the exigencies which produced them, and interfere
with the supply of immediate wants. Delinquen-
cies, from whatever causes, would be productive
of complaints, recriminations, and quarrels. There
is, perhaps, nothing more likely to disturb the tran-
quillity of nations than their being bound to mutual
contributions for any common object that does not
yield an equal and coincident benefit. For it is
an observation, as true as it is trite, that there is
nothing men differ so readily about as the payment
of money.

Laws in violation of private contracts, as they
amount to aggressions on the rights of those States
whose citizens are injured by them, may be con-
sidered as another probable source of hostility. We
are not authorized to expect that a more liberal or
more equitable spirit would preside over the legisla-
tions of the individual States hereafter, if unre-
strained by any additional checks, than we have
heretofore seen in too many instances disgracing
their several codes. We have observed the dis-
position to retaliation excited in Connecticut, in
consequence of the enormities perpetrated by the
Legislature of Rhode Island; and we reasonably
infer that, in similar cases under other circum-
stances, a war, not of parchment, but of the sword,
would chastise such atrocious breaches of moral
obligation and social justice.

The Federalist 51

The probability of incompatible alliances between
the different States or confederacies and different
foreign nations, and the effects of this situation upon
the peace of the whole, have been sufficiently un-
folded in some preceding papers. From the view
they have exhibited of this part of the subject, this
conclusion is to be drawn, that America, if not con-
nected at all, or only by the feeble tie of a simple
league, offensive and defensive, would, by the op-
eration of such jarring alliances, be gradually en-
tangled in all the pernicious labyrinths of European
politics and wars ; and by the destructive conten-
tions of the parts into which she was divided, would
be likely to become a prey to the artifices and
machinations of powers equally the enemies of
them all. Divide et imp era x must be the motto of
every nation that either hates or fears us.2

Publius.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, November 20, 1787
THE FEDERALIST. No. VIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Assuming it therefore as an established truth that
the several States, in case of disunion, or such com-
binations of them as might happen to be formed out

1 Divide and command. — Publius.

2 In order that the whole subject of these papers may as soon as
possible be laid before the public, it is proposed to publish them four
times a week — on Tuesday in the New York Packet and on Thursday
in the Daily Advertiser. — Publius.

52 Alexander Hamilton

of the wreck of the general Confederacy, would be
subject to those vicissitudes of peace and war, of
friendship and enmity with each other, which have
fallen to the lot of all neighboring nations not united
under one government, let us enter into a concise
detail of some of the consequences that would attend
such a situation.

War between the States, in the first period of
their separate existence, would be accompanied with
much greater distresses than it commonly is in those
countries where regular military establishments have
long obtained. The disciplined armies always kept
on foot on the continent of Europe, though they bear
a malignant aspect to liberty and economy, have,
notwithstanding, been productive of the signal ad-
vantage of rendering sudden conquests impractica-
ble, and of preventing that rapid desolation which
used to mark the progress of war prior to their in-
troduction. The art of fortification has contributed
to the same ends. The nations of Europe are en-
circled with chains of fortified places, which mu-
tually obstruct invasion. Campaigns are wasted in
reducing two or three frontier garrisons, to gain ad-
mittance into an enemy's country. Similar impedi-
ments occur at every step, to exhaust the strength
and delay the progress of an invader. Formerly,
an invading army would penetrate into the heart of
a neighboring country almost as soon as intelligence
of its approach could be received; but now a com-
paratively small force of disciplined troops, acting
on the defensive, with the aid of posts, is able to
impede, and finally to frustrate, the enterprises of

The Federalist 53

one much more considerable. The history of war, in
that quarter of the globe, is no longer a history of
nations subdued and empires overturned, but of
towns taken and retaken; of battles that decide
nothing; of retreats more beneficial than victories;
of much effort and little acquisition.

In this country the scene would be altogether
reversed. The jealousy of military establishments
would postpone them as long as possible. The want
of fortifications, leaving the frontiers of one State
open to another, would facilitate inroads. The
populous States would, with little difficulty, overrun
their less populous neighbors. Conquests would be
as easy to be made as difficult to be retained. War,
therefore, would be desultory and predatory. Plun-
der and devastation ever march in the train of ir-
regulars. The calamities of individuals would make
the principal figure in the events which would char-
acterize our military exploits.

This picture is not too highly wrought; though, I
confess, it would not long remain a just one. Safety
from external danger is the most powerful director
of national conduct. Even the ardent love of liberty
will, after a time, give way to its dictates. The
violent destruction of life and property incident to
war, the continual effort and alarm attendant on a
state of continual danger, will compel nations the
most attached to liberty to resort for repose and
security to institutions which have a tendency to
destroy their civil and political rights. To be more
safe, they at length become willing to run the risk
of being less free.

54 Alexander Hamilton

The institutions chiefly alluded to are standing
armies and the correspondent appendages of mili-
tary establishments. Standing armies, it is said, are
not provided against in the new Constitution; and
it is therefore inferred that they may exist under it.1
Their existence, however, from the very terms of the
proposition, is, at most, problematical and uncertain.2
But standing armies, it may be replied, must inevit-
ably result from a dissolution of the Confederacy.
Frequent war and constant apprehension, which
require a state of as constant preparation, will in-
fallibly produce them. The weaker States or con-
federacies would first have recourse to them, to put
themselves upon an equality with their more potent
neighbors. They would endeavor to supply the in-
feriority of population and resources by a more regu-
lar and effective system of defence, by disciplined
troops, and by fortifications. They would, at the
same time, be necessitated to strengthen the execu-
tive arm of government, in doing which their con-
stitutions would acquire a progressive direction
towards monarchy. It is of the nature of war to in-
crease the executive at the expense of the legislative
authority.

The expedients which have been mentioned would
soon give the States or confederacies that made use

1 This objection will be fully examined in its proper place, and it
will be shown that the only natural precaution which could have been
taken on this subject has been taken; and a much better one than is
to be found in any constitution that has been heretofore framed in
America, most of which contain no guard at all on this subject. —
Publius.

2 In the revised text: "This inference, from the very form of the
proposition, is, at best, problematical and uncertain."

The Federalist 55

of them a superiority over their neighbors. Small
states, or states of less natural strength, under
vigorous governments, and with the assistance of
disciplined armies, have often triumphed over large
states, or states of greater natural strength, which
have been destitute of these advantages. Neither
the pride nor the safety of the more important
States or confederacies would permit them long to
submit to this mortifying and adventitious superior-
ity. They would quickly resort to means similar to
those by which it had been effected, to reinstate
themselves in their lost pre-eminence. Thus we
should, in a little time, see established in every part
of this country the same engines of despotism which
have been the scourge of the Old World. This, at
least, would be the natural course of things; and our
reasonings will be the more likely to be just, in pro-
portion as they are accommodated to this standard.

These are not vague inferences drawn from sup-
posed or speculative defects in a Constitution, the
whole power of which is lodged in the hands of a
people, or their representatives and delegates, but
they are solid conclusions, drawn from the natural
and necessary progress of human affairs.

It may, perhaps, be asked, by way of objection to
this, why did not standing armies spring up out of
the contentions which so often distracted the ancient
republics of Greece? Different answers, equally sat-
isfactory, may be given to this question. The in-
dustrious habits of the people of the present day,
absorbed in the pursuits of gain, and devoted to
the improvements of agriculture and commerce, are

56 Alexander Hamilton

incompatible with the condition of a nation of soldiers,
which was the true condition of the people of those
republics. The means of revenue, which have been
so greatly multiplied by the increase of gold and sil-
ver and of the arts of industry, and the science of
finance, which is the offspring of modern times, con-
curring with the habits of nations, have produced
an entire revolution in the system of war, and have
rendered disciplined armies, distinct from the body
of the citizens, the inseparable companions of fre-
quent hostility.

There is a wide difference, also, between military
establishments in a country seldom exposed by its
situation to internal invasions, and in one which is
often subject to them, and always apprehensive of
them. The rulers of the former can have no good
pretext, if they are even so inclined, to keep on foot
armies so numerous as must of necessity be main-
tained in the latter. These armies being, in the first
case, rarely, if at all, called into activity for interior
defence, the people are in no danger of being broken
to military subordination. The laws are not ac-
customed to relaxations, in favor of military exigen-
cies; the civil state remains in full vigor, neither
corrupted, nor confounded with the principles or pro-
pensities of the other state. The smallness of the
army renders the natural strength of the community
an over-match for it ; and the citizens, not habituated
to look up to the military power for protection, or to
submit to its oppressions, neither love nor fear the
soldiery; they view them with a spirit of jealous
acquiescence in a necessary evil, and stand ready

The Federalist 57

to resist a power which they suppose may be ex-
erted to the prejudice of their rights. The army
under such circumstances may usefully aid the magis-
trate to suppress a small faction, or an occasional
mob, or insurrection; but it will be unable to en-
force encroachments against the united efforts of the
great body of the people.

In a country in the predicament last described,
the contrary of all this happens. The perpetual
menacings of danger oblige the government to be
always prepared to repel it; its armies must be nu-
merous enough for instant defence. The continual
necessity for their services enhances the importance
of the soldier, and proportionably degrades the con-
dition of the citizen. The military state becomes
elevated above the civil. The inhabitants of terri-
tories, often the theatre of war, are unavoidably
subjected to frequent infringements on their rights,
which serve to weaken their sense of those rights;
and by degrees the people are brought to consider
the soldiery not only as their protectors, but as
their superiors. The transition from this disposition
to that of considering them masters, is neither re-
mote nor difficult; but it is very difficult to prevail
upon a people under such impressions, to make a
bold or effectual resistance to usurpations sup-
ported by the military power.

The kingdom of Great Britain falls within the
first description. An insular situation, and a power-
ful marine, guarding it in a great measure against
the possibility of foreign invasion, supersede the
necessity of a numerous army within the kingdom.

5 8 Alexander Hamilton

A sufficient force to make head against a sudden
descent, till the militia could have time to rally and
embody, is all that has been deemed requisite. No
motive of national policy has demanded, nor would
public opinion have tolerated, a larger number of
troops upon its domestic establishment. There has
been, for a long time past, little room for the opera-
tion of the other causes, which have been enumerated
as the consequences of internal war. This peculiar
felicity of situation has, in a great degree, contributed
to preserve the liberty which that country to this
day enjoys, in spite of the prevalent venality and
corruption. If, on the contrary, Britain had been
situated on the continent, and had been compelled,
as she would have been, by that situation, to make
her military establishments at home coextensive
with those of the other great powers of Europe, she,
like them, would in all probability be, at this day, a
victim to the absolute power of a single man. 'T is
possible, though not easy, that the people of that
island may be enslaved from other causes; but it
cannot be by the prowess of an army so inconsider-
able as that which has been usually kept up within
the kingdom.

If we are wise enough to preserve the Union we
may for ages enjoy an advantage similar to that of
an insulated situation. Europe is at a great dis-
tance from us. Her colonies in our vicinity will
be likely to continue too much disproportion ed in
strength to be able to give us any dangerous annoy-
ance. Extensive military establishments cannot, in
this position, be necessary to our security. But if

The Federalist 59

we should be disunited, and the integral parts should
either remain separated, or, which is most probable,
should be thrown together into two or three con-
federacies, we should be, in a short course of time, in
the predicament of the continental powers of Eu-
rope— our liberties would be a prey to the means of
defending ourselves against the ambition and jeal-
ousy of each other.

This is an idea not superficial or futile, but solid
and weighty. It deserves the most serious and ma-
ture consideration of every prudent and honest man
of whatever party. If such men will make a firm
and solemn pause, and meditate dispassionately on
the importance of this interesting idea; if they will
contemplate it in all its attitudes, and trace it to all
its consequences, they will not hesitate to part with
trivial objections to a Constitution, the rejection of
which would in all probability put a final period to
the Union. The airy phantoms that flit before the
distempered imaginations of some of its adversaries
would quickly give place to the more substantial
forms of dangers, real, certain, and formidable.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. IX

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

A firm Union will be of the utmost moment to the
peace and liberty of the States, as a barrier against

60 Alexander Hamilton

domestic faction and insurrection. It is impossible
to read the history of the petty republics of Greece
and Italy without feeling sensations of horror and
disgust at the distractions with which they were
continually agitated, and at the rapid succession of
revolutions by which they were kept in a state of
perpetual vibration between the extremes of tyranny
and anarchy. If they exhibit occasional calms,
these only serve as short-lived contrasts to the
furious storms that are to succeed. If now and then
intervals of felicity open to view, we behold them
with a mixture of regret, arising from the reflection
that the pleasing scenes before us are soon to be
overwhelmed by the tempestuous waves of sedition
and party rage. If momentary rays of glory break
forth from the gloom, while they dazzle us with a
transient and fleeting brilliancy, they at the same
time admonish us to lament that the vices of govern-
ment should pervert the direction and tarnish the
lustre of those bright talents and exalted endow-
ments for which the favored soils that produced
them have been so justly celebrated.

From the disorders that disfigure the annals of
those republics the advocates of despotism have
drawn arguments, not only against the forms of
- republican government, but against the very prin-
ciples of civil liberty. They have decried all free
government as inconsistent with the order of society,
and have indulged themselves in malicious exulta-
tion over its friends and partisans. Happily for
mankind, stupendous fabrics reared on the basis of
liberty, which have flourished for ages, have, in a few

The Federalist 61

glorious instances, refuted their gloomy sophisms.
And, I trust, America will be the broad and solid
foundation of other edifices, not less magnificent,
which will be equally permanent monuments of
their errors.

But it is not to be denied that the portraits they
have sketched of republican government were too
just copies of the originals from which they were
taken. If it had been found impracticable to have
devised models of a more perfect structure, the en-
lightened friends to liberty would have been obliged
to abandon the cause of that species of government
as indefensible. The science of politics, however,
like most other sciences, has received great improve-
ment. The efficacy of various principles is now well
understood, which were either not known at all, or
imperfectly known to the ancients. The regular
distribution of power into distinct departments ; the
introduction of legislative balances and checks; the
institution of courts composed of judges holding
their offices during good behavior; the representa-
tion of the people in the legislature by deputies of
their own election : these are wholly new discoveries,
or have made their principal progress towards per-
fection in modern times. They are means, and pow-
erful means, by which the excellences of republican
government may be retained and its imperfections
lessened or avoided. To this catalogue of circum-
stances that tend to the amelioration of popular sys-
tems of civil government, I shall venture, however
novel it may appear to some, to add one more, on a
principle which has been made the foundation of an

62 Alexander Hamilton

objection to the new Constitution; I mean the en-
largement of the orbit within which such systems
are to revolve, either in respect to the dimensions of
a single State, or to the consolidation of several
smaller States into one great Confederacy. The
latter is that which immediately concerns the ob-
ject under consideration. It will, however, be of
use to examine the principle in its application to
a single State, which shall be attended to in another
place.

The utility of a Confederacy, as well to suppress
faction and to guard the internal tranquillity of
States, as to increase their external force and secur-
ity, is in reality not a new idea. It has been prac-
tised upon in different countries and ages, and has
received the sanction of the most approved writers
on the subjects of politics. The opponents of the
plan proposed have, with great assiduity, cited and
circulated the observations of Montesquieu on the
necessity of a contracted territory for a republican
government. But they seem not to have been
apprised of the sentiments of that great man ex-
pressed in another part of his work, nor to have ad-
verted to the consequences of the principle to which
they subscribe with such ready acquiescence.

When Montesquieu recommends a small extent
for republics, the standards he had in view were of
dimensions far short of the limits of almost every
one of these States. Neither Virginia, Massachu-
setts, Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina, nor
Georgia can by any means be compared with the
models from which he reasoned and to which the

The Federalist 63

terms of his description apply. If we therefore take
his ideas on this point as the criterion of truth, we
shall be driven to the alternative either of tak-
ing refuge at once in the arms of monarchy, or of
splitting ourselves into an infinity of little, jealous,
clashing, tumultuous commonwealths, the wretched
nurseries of unceasing discord, and the miserable
objects of universal pity or contempt. Some of the
writers who have come forward on the other side of
the question seem to have been aware of the dilemma ;
and have even been bold enough to hint at the divi-
sion of the larger States as a desirable thing. Such
an infatuated policy, such a desperate expedient,
might, by the multiplication of petty offices, answer
the views of men who possess not qualifications to
extend their influence beyond the narrow circles of
personal intrigue, but it could never promote the
greatness or happiness of the people of America.

Referring the examination of the principle itself
to another place, as has been already mentioned, it
will be sufficient to remark here that, in the sense of
the author who has been most emphatically quoted
upon the occasion, it would only dictate a reduction
of the size of the more considerable members of the
Union, but would not militate against their being all
comprehended in one confederate government. And
this is the true question, in the discussion of which
we are at present interested.

So far are the suggestions of Montesquieu from
standing in opposition to a general Union of the
States, that he explicitly treats of a Confederate
Republic as the expedient for extending the sphere

64 Alexander Hamilton

of popular government, and reconciling the advan-
tages of monarchy with those of republicanism.

"It is very probable" (says he x) "that mankind
would have been obliged at length to live constantly
under the government of a single person, had they
not contrived a kind of constitution that has all the
internal advantages of a republican, together with
the external force of a monarchical, government. I
mean a Confederate Republic.

"This form of government is a convention by
which several smaller states agree to become members
of a larger one, which they intend to form. It is a
kind of assemblage of societies that constitute a new
one, capable of increasing, by means of new associa-
tions, till they arrive to such a degree of power as to
be able to provide for the security of the united body.

" A republic of this kind, able to withstand an ex-
ternal force, may support itself without any internal
corruptions. The form of this society prevents all
manner of inconveniences.

" If a single member should attempt to usurp the
supreme authority, he could not be supposed to have
an equal authority and credit in all the confederate
states. Were he to have too great influence over
one, this would alarm the rest. Were he to subdue
a part, that which would still remain free might op-
pose him with forces independent of those which he
had usurped, and overpower him before he could be
settled in his usurpation.

" Should a popular insurrection happen in one of
the confederate states, the others are able to quell it.

1 Spirit of Laws, vol. i., book ix., chap. i. — Publius.

The Federalist 65

Should abuses creep into one part, they are reformed
by those that remain sound. The state may be de-
stroyed on one side, and not on the other; the con-
federacy may be dissolved, and the confederates
preserve their sovereignty.

" As this government is composed of small repub-
lics, it enjoys the internal happiness of each; and
with respect to its external situation, it is possessed,
by means of the association, of all the advantages of
large monarchies."

I have thought it proper to quote at length these
interesting passages, because they contain a luminous
abridgment of the principal arguments in favor of
the Union, and must effectually remove the false
impressions which a misapplication of other parts
of the work was calculated to make. They have, at
the same time, an intimate connection with the more
immediate design of this paper ; which is, to illustrate
the tendency of the Union to repress domestic fac-
tion and insurrection.

A distinction, more subtle than accurate, has been
raised between a confederacy and a consolidation of
the States. The essential characteristic of the first
is said to be, the restriction of its authority to the
members in their collective capacities, without reach-
ing to the individuals of whom they are composed.
It is contended that the national council ought to
have no concern with any object of internal admin-
istration. An exact equality of suffrage between
the members has also been insisted upon as a lead-
ing feature of a confederate government. These
positions are, in the main, arbitrary; they are

66 Alexander Hamilton

supported neither by principle nor precedent. It has
indeed happened, that governments of this kind have
generally operated in the manner which the distinc-
tion, taken notice of, supposes to be inherent in their
nature ; but there have been in most of them exten-
sive exceptions to the practice, which serve to prove,
as far as example will go, that there is no absolute
rule on the subject. And it will be clearly shown,
in the course of this investigation, that as far as the
principle contended for has prevailed, it has been
the cause of incurable disorder and imbecility in the
government.

The definition of a confederate republic seems simply
to be "an assemblage of societies," or an association
of two or more states into one state. The extent,
modifications, and objects of the federal authority,
are mere matters of discretion. So long as the
separate organization of the members be not abol-
ished; so long as it exists, by a constitutional ne-
cessity, for local purposes; though it should be in
perfect subordination to the general authority of
the union, it would still be, in fact and in theory,
an association of states, or a confederacy. The
proposed Constitution, so far from implying an
abolition of the State governments, makes them
constituent parts of the national sovereignty, by al-
lowing them a direct representation in the Senate, and
leaves in their possession certain exclusive and very
important portions of sovereign power. This fully
corresponds, in every rational import of the terms,
with the idea of a federal government.

In the Lycian confederacy, which consisted of

The Federalist 67

twenty-three cities or republics, the largest were en-
titled to three votes in the common council, those of
the middle class to two, and the smallest to one. The
common council had the appointment of all the
judges and magistrates of the respective cities.
This was certainly the most delicate species of inter-
ference in their internal administration; for if there
be any thing that seems exclusively appropriated to
the local jurisdictions, it is the appointment of their
own officers. Yet Montesquieu, speaking of this
association, says: " Were I to give a model of an
excellent Confederate Republic, it would be that of
Lycia." Thus we perceive that the distinctions in-
sisted upon were not within the contemplation of
this enlightened civilian ; and we shall be led to con-
clude, that they are the novel refinements of an erro-
neous theory.

Publius.

From the New York Packet, Friday, November 23, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. X

(madison)

To the People of the State of New York:

Among the numerous advantages promised by a
well-constructed Union, none deserves to be more
accurately developed than its tendency to break and
control the violence of faction. The friend of popu-
lar governments never finds himself so much alarmed
for their character and fate, as when he contem-
plates their propensity to this dangerous vice. He

68 Alexander Hamilton

will not fail, therefore, to set a due value on any plan
which, without violating the principles to which he
is attached, provides a proper cure for it. The in-
stability, injustice, and confusion introduced into
the public councils, have, in truth, been the mortal
diseases under which popular governments have
everywhere perished; as they continue to be the
favorite and fruitful topics from which the adver-
saries to liberty derive their most specious declama-
tions. The valuable improvements made by the
American constitutions on the popular models, both
ancient and modern, cannot certainly be too much
admired; but it would be an unwarrantable par-
tiality, to contend that they have as effectually ob-
viated the danger on this side, as was wished and
expected. Complaints are everywhere heard from
our most considerate and virtuous citizens, equally
the friends of public and private faith, and of public
and personal liberty, that our governments are too
unstable, that the public good is disregarded in the
conflicts of rival parties, and that measures are too
often decided, not according to the rules of justice
and the rights of the minor party, but by the supe-
rior force of an interested and overbearing majority.
However anxiously we may wish that these com-
plaints had no foundation, the evidence of known
facts will not permit us to deny that they are in some
degree true. It will be found, indeed, on a candid
review of our situation, that some of the distresses
under which we labor have been erroneously charged
on the operation of our governments ; but it will be
found, at the same time, that other causes will not

The Federalist 69

alone account for many of our heaviest misfortunes ;
and, particularly, for that prevailing and increasing
distrust of public engagements, and alarm for private
rights, which are echoed from one end of the conti-
nent to the other. These must be chiefly, if not
wholly, effects of the unsteadiness and injustice with
which a factious spirit has tainted our public ad-
ministrations.

By a faction, I understand a number of citizens,
whether amounting to a majority or minority of the
whole, who are united and actuated by some com-
mon impulse of passion, or of interest, adverse to
the rights of other citizens, or to the permanent and
aggregate interests of the community.

There are two methods of curing the mischiefs of
faction: the one, by removing its causes; the other,
by controlling its effects.

There are again two methods of removing the
causes of faction : the one, by destroying the liberty
which is essential to its existence ; the other, by giv-
ing to every citizen the same opinions, the same pas-
sions, and the same interests.

It could never be more truly said than of the first
remedy, that it was worse than the disease. Liberty
is to faction what air is to fire, an aliment without
which it instantly expires. But it could not be less
folly to abolish liberty, which is essential to political
life, because it nourishes faction, than it would be to
wish the annihilation of air, which is essential to
animal life, because it imparts to fire its destructive
agency.

The second expedient is as impracticable as the

70 Alexander Hamilton

first would be unwise. As long as the reason of man
continues fallible, and he is at liberty to exercise it,
different opinions will be formed. As long as the
connection subsists between his reason and his self-
love, his opinions and his passions will have a recip-
rocal influence on each other; and the former will
be objects to which the latter will attach themselves.
The diversity in the faculties of men, from which the
rights of property originate, is not less an insuperable
obstacle to a uniformity of interests. The protec-
tion of these faculties is the first object of gov-
ernment. From the protection of different and
unequal faculties of acquiring property, the posses-
sion of different degrees and kinds of property imme-
diately results; and from the influence of these on
the sentiments and views of the respective proprie-
tors, ensues a division of the society into different
interests and parties.

The latent causes of faction are thus sown in the
nature of man ; and we see them everywhere brought
into different degrees of activity, according to the
different circumstances of civil society. A zeal for
different opinions concerning religion, concerning
government, and many other points, as well of spec-
ulation as of practice; an attachment to different
leaders ambitiously contending for pre-eminence and
power; or to persons of other descriptions whose
fortunes have been interesting to the human pas-
sions, have, in turn, divided mankind into parties,
inflamed them with mutual animosity, and rendered
them much more disposed to vex and oppress each
other than to co-operate for their common good.

The Federalist 71

So strong is this propensity of mankind to fall into
mutual animosities, that where no substantial occa-
sion presents itself, the most frivolous and fanciful
distinctions have been sufficient to kindle their un-
friendly passions and excite their most violent con-
flicts. But the most common and durable source
of factions has been the various and unequal distri-
bution of property. Those who hold and those who
are without property have ever formed distinct in-
terests in society. Those who are creditors, and
those who are debtors, fall under a like discrimina-
tion. A landed interest, a manufacturing interest, a
mercantile interest, a moneyed interest, with many
lesser interests, grow up of necessity in civilized
nations, and divide them into different classes, actu-
ated by different sentiments and views. The regu-
lation of these various and interfering interests
forms the principal task of modern legislation,
and involves the spirit of party and faction in
the necessary and ordinary operations of the gov-
ernment.

No man is allowed to be a judge in his own cause,
because his interest would certainly bias his judg-
ment, and, not improbably, corrupt his integrity.
With equal, nay with greater reason, a body of men
are unfit to be both judges and parties at the same
time ; yet what are many of the most important acts
of legislation, but so many judicial determinations,
not indeed concerning the rights of single persons,
but concerning the rights of large bodies of citizens ?
And what are the different classes of legislators
but advocates and parties to the causes which they

72 Alexander Hamilton

determine? Is a law proposed concerning private
debts? It is a question to which the creditors are
parties on one side and the debtors on the other.
Justice ought to hold the balance between them.
Yet the parties are, and must be, themselves the
judges; and the most numerous party, or, in other
words, the most powerful faction must be expected
to prevail. Shall domestic manufactures be en-
couraged, and in what degree, by restrictions on
foreign manufactures ? are questions which would be
differently decided by the landed and the manu-
facturing classes, and probably by neither with a
sole regard to justice and the public good. The ap-
portionment of taxes on the various descriptions of
property is an act which seems to require the most
exact impartiality; yet there is, perhaps, no legisla-
tive act in which greater opportunity and tempta-
tion are given to a predominant party to trample
on the rules of justice. Every shilling with which
they overburden the inferior number, is a shilling
saved to their own pockets.

It is in vain to say that enlightened statesmen will
be able to adjust these clashing interests, and render
them all subservient to the public good. Enlight-
ened statesmen will not always be at the helm.
Nor, in many cases, can such an adjustment be made
at all without taking into view indirect and remote
considerations, which will rarely prevail over the
immediate interest which one party may find in dis-
regarding the rights of another or the good of the
whole.

The inference to which we are brought is, that the

The Federalist 73

causes of faction cannot be removed, and that relief
is only to be sought in the means of controlling its
effects.

If a faction consists of less than a majority, relief
is supplied by the republican principle, which enables
the majority to defeat its sinister views by regular
vote. It may clog the administration, it may con-
vulse the society; but it will be unable to execute
and mask its violence under the forms of the Con-
stitution. When a majority is included in a faction,
the form of popular government, on the other hand,
enables it to sacrifice to its ruling passion or interest
both the public good and the rights of other citizens.
To secure the public good and private rights against
the danger of such a faction, and at the same time
to preserve the spirit and the form of popular
government, is then the great object to which our
inquiries are directed. Let me add that it is the
great desideratum by which this form of government
can be rescued from the opprobrium under which it
has so long labored, and be recommended to the
esteem and adoption of mankind.

By what means is this object attainable? Evi-
dently by one of two only. Either the existence of
the same passion or interest in a majority at the
same time must be prevented, or the majority, hav-
ing such coexistent passion or interest, must be ren-
dered, by their number and local situation, unable
to concert and carry into effect schemes of oppres-
sion. If the impulse and the opportunity be suf-
fered to coincide, we well know that neither moral
nor religious motives can be relied on as an adequate

74 Alexander Hamilton

control. They are not found to be such on the in-
justice and violence of individuals, and lose their
efficacy in proportion to the number combined to-
gether, that is, in proportion as their efficacy be-
comes needful.

From this view of the subject it may be concluded
that a pure democracy, by which I mean a society
consisting of a small number of citizens, who assem-
ble and administer the government in person, can
admit of no cure for the mischiefs of faction. A
common passion or interest will, in almost every
case, be felt by a majority of the whole; a communi-
cation and concert result from the form of gov-
ernment itself; and there is nothing to check the
inducements to sacrifice the weaker party or an ob-
noxious individual. Hence it is that such demo-
cracies have ever been spectacles of turbulence and
contention ; have ever been found incompatible with
personal security or the rights of property; and
have in general been as short in their lives as they
have been violent in their deaths. Theoretic poli-
ticians, who have patronized this species of govern-
ment, have erroneously supposed that by reducing
mankind to a perfect equality in their political
rights, they would, at the same time, be perfectly
equalized and assimilated in their possessions, their
opinions, and their passions.

A republic, by which I mean a government in
which the scheme of representation takes place,
opens a different prospect, and promises the cure for
which we are seeking. Let us examine the points
in which it varies from pure democracy, and we shall

The Federalist 75

comprehend both the nature of the cure and the
efficacy which it must derive from the Union.

The two great points of difference between a de-
mocracy and a republic are: first, the delegation of
the government, in the latter, to a small number of
citizens elected by the rest; secondly, the greater
number of citizens, and greater sphere of country,
over which the latter may be extended.

The effect of the first difference is, on the one hand,
to refine and enlarge the public views, by passing
them through the medium of a chosen body of citi-
zens, whose wisdom may best discern the true in-
terest of their country, and whose patriotism and
love of justice will be least likely to sacrifice it to
temporary or partial considerations. Under such a
regulation, it may well happen that the public voice,
pronounced by the representatives of the people, will
be more consonant to the public good than if pro-
nounced by the people themselves, convened for the
purpose. On the other hand, the effect may be
inverted. Men of factious tempers, of local preju-
dices, or of sinister designs, may, by intrigue, by
corruption, or by other means, first obtain the
suffrages, and then betray the interests, of the
people. The question resulting is, whether small
or extensive republics are more favorable to the
election of proper guardians of the public weal ; and
it is clearly decided in favor of the latter by two
obvious considerations :

In the first place, it is to be remarked that, how-
ever small the republic may be, the representatives
must be raised to a certain number, in order to guard

76 Alexander Hamilton

against the cabals of a few; and that, however large
it may be, they must be limited to a certain number,
in order to guard against the confusion of a multi-
tude. Hence, the number of representatives in the
two cases not being in proportion to that of the
two constituents, and being proportionally greater
in the small republic, it follows that, if the propor-
tion of fit characters be not less in the large than in
the small republic, the former will present a greater
option, and consequently a greater probability of a
fit choice.

In the next place, as each representative will be
chosen by a greater number of citizens in the large
than in the small republic, it will be more difficult
for unworthy candidates to practise with success the
vicious arts by which elections are too often carried;
and the suffrages of the people being more free, will
be more likely to centre in men who possess the most
attractive merit and the most diffusive and estab-
lished characters.

It must be confessed that in this, as in most other
cases, there is a mean, on both sides of which in-
conveniences will be found to lie. By enlarging too
much the number of electors, you render the repre-
sentative too little acquainted with all their local
circumstances and lesser interests ; as by reducing it
too much, you render him unduly attached to these,
and too little fit to comprehend and pursue great
and national objects. The federal Constitution forms
a happy combination in this respect ; the great and
aggrega"te interests being referred to the national,
the local and particular to the State legislatures.

The Federalist 77

The other point of difference is, the greater num-
ber of citizens and extent of territory which may be
brought within the compass of republican than of
democratic government; and it is this circumstance
principally which renders factious combinations less
to be dreaded in the former than in the latter. The
smaller the society, the fewer probably will be the
distinct parties and interests composing it ; the fewer
the distinct parties and interests, the more fre-
quently will a majority be found of the same party ;
and the smaller the number of individuals compos-
ing a majority, and the smaller the compass within
which they are placed, the more easily will they
concert and execute their plans of oppression. Ex-
tend the sphere, and you take in a greater variety of
parties and interests ; you make it less probable that
a majority of the whole will have a common motive
to invade the rights of other citizens; or if such a
common motive exists, it will be more difficult for
all who feel it to discover their own strength, and to
act in unison with each other. Besides other im-
pediments, it may be remarked that, where there is
a consciousness of unjust or dishonorable purposes,
communication is always checked by distrust in
proportion to the number whose concurrence is
necessary.

Hence, it clearly appears, that the same advan-
tage which a republic has over a democracy, in con-
trolling the effects of faction, is enjoyed by a large
over a small republic, — is enjoyed by the Union over
the States composing it. Does the advantage con-
sist in the substitution of representatives whose

78 Alexander Hamilton

enlightened views and virtuous sentiments render
them superior to local prejudices and to schemes of
injustice? It will not be denied that the representa-
tion of the Union will be most likely to possess these
requisite endowments. Does it consist in the greater
security afforded by a greater variety of parties,
against the event of any one party being able to out-
number and oppress the rest? In an equal degree
does the increased variety of parties comprised within
the Union, increase this security? Does it, in fine,
consist in the greater obstacles opposed to the con-
cert and accomplishment of the secret wishes of an
unjust and interested majority? Here, again, the
extent of the Union gives it the most palpable ad-
vantage.

The influence of factious leaders may kindle a
flame within their particular States, but will be un-
able to spread a general conflagration through the
other States. A religious sect may degenerate into
a political faction in a part of the Confederacy ; but
the variety of sects dispersed over the entire face
of it must secure the national councils against any
danger from that source. A rage for paper money,
for an abolition of debts, for an equal division of
property, or for any other improper or wicked pro-
ject, will be less apt to pervade the whole body of
the Union than a particular member of it; in the
same proportion as such a malady is more likely to
taint a particular county or district, than an entire
State.

In the extent and proper structure of the Union,
therefore, we behold a republican remedy for the

The Federalist 79

diseases most incident to republican government.
And according to the degree of pleasure and pride
we feel in being republicans, ought to be our zeal in
cherishing the spirit and supporting the character of
Federalists.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. XI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The importance of the Union, in a commercial
light, is one of those points about which there is
least room to entertain a difference of opinion, and
which has, in fact, commanded the most general as-
sent of men who have any acquaintance with the
subject. This applies as well to our intercourse with
foreign countries as with each other.

There are appearances to authorize a supposition
that the adventurous spirit, which distinguishes the
commercial character of America, has already ex-
cited uneasy sensations in several of the maritime
powers of Europe. They seem to be apprehensive
of our too great interference in that carrying trade,
which is the support of their navigation and the
foundation of their naval strength. Those of them
which have colonies in America look forward to
what this country is capable of becoming, with
painful solicitude. They foresee the dangers that
may threaten their American dominions from the

80 Alexander Hamilton

neighborhood of States, which have all the disposi-
tions, and would possess all the means, requisite to
the creation of a powerful marine. Impressions of
this kind will naturally indicate the policy of foster-
ing divisions among us, and of depriving us, as far
as possible, of an active commerce in our own bot-
toms. This would answer the threefold purpose of
preventing our interference in their navigation, of
monopolizing the profits of our trade, and of clipping
the wings by which we might soar to a dangerous
greatness. Did not prudence forbid the detail, it
would not be difficult to trace, by facts, the workings
of this policy to the cabinets of ministers.

If we continue united, we may counteract a policy
so unfriendly to our prosperity in a variety of ways.
By prohibitory regulations, extending, at the same
time, throughout the States, we may oblige foreign
countries to bid against each other, for the privileges
of our markets. This assertion will not appear
chimerical to those who are able to appreciate the
importance of the markets of three millions of people
— increasing in rapid progression, for the most part
exclusively addicted to agriculture, and likely from
local circumstances to remain so — to any manufac-
turing nation; and the immense difference there
would be to the trade and navigation of such a na-
tion, between a direct communication in its own
ships, and an indirect conveyance of its products and
returns, to and from America, in the ships of another
country. Suppose, for instance, we had a govern-
ment in America, capable of excluding Great Britain
(with whom we have at present no treaty of com-

The Federalist 81

merce) from all our ports ; what would be the prob-
able operation of this step upon her politics ? Would
it not enable us to negotiate, with the fairest pros-
pect of success, for commercial privileges of the most
valuable and extensive kind, in the dominions of that
kingdom? When these questions have been asked,
upon other occasions, they have received a plausible,
but not a solid or satisfactory answer. It has been
said that prohibitions on our part would produce no
change in the system of Britain, because she could
prosecute her trade with us through the medium of
the Dutch, who would be her immediate customers
and paymasters for those articles which were wanted
for the supply of our markets. But would not her
navigation be materially injured by the loss of the
important advantage of being her own carrier in
that trade? Would not the principal part of its
profits be intercepted by the Dutch, as a compensa-
tion for their agency and risk ? Would not the mere
circumstance of freight occasion a considerable de-
duction? Would not so circuitous an intercourse
facilitate the competitions of other nations, by en-
hancing the price of British commodities in our
markets, and by transferring to other hands the
management of this interesting branch of the British
commerce ?

A mature consideration of the objects suggested
by these questions will justify a belief that the real
disadvantages to Britain from such a state of things,
conspiring with the prepossessions of a great part of
the nation in favor of the American trade, and of
the importunities of the West India islands, would

VOL. XI. — 6.

82 Alexander Hamilton

produce a relaxation in her present system, and would
let us into the enjoyment of privileges in the markets
of those islands and elsewhere, from which our trade
would derive the most substantial benefits. Such
a point gained from the British government, and
which could not be expected without an equivalent
in exemptions and immunities in our markets, would
be likely to have a correspondent effect on the con-
duct of other nations, who would not be inclined to
see themselves altogether supplanted in our trade.

A further resource for influencing the conduct of
European nations toward us, in this respect, would
arise from the establishment of a federal navy.
There can be no doubt that the continuance of the
Union under an efficient government, would put it
in our power, at a period not very distant, to create
a navy which, if it could not vie with those of the
great maritime powers, would at least be of respect-
able weight if thrown into the scale of either of two
contending parties. This would be more peculiarly
the case in relation to operations in the West Indies.
A few ships of the line, sent opportunely to the re-
inforcement of either side, would often be sufficient
to decide the fate of a campaign, on the event of
which interests of the greatest magnitude were sus-
pended. Our position is, in this respect, a most
commanding one. And if to this consideration we
add that of the usefulness of supplies from this
country, in the prosecution of military operations in
the West Indies, it will readily be perceived that a
situation so favorable would enable us to bargain
with great advantage for commercial privileges. A

The Federalist S3

price would be set not only upon our friendship, but
upon our neutrality. By a steady adherence to the
Union, we may hope, erelong, to become the arbiter
of Europe in America, and to be able to incline the
balance of European competitions in this part of the
world as our interest may dictate.

But in the reverse of this eligible situation, we
shall discover that the rivalships of the parts would
make them checks upon each other, and would frus-
trate all the tempting advantages which nature has
kindly placed within our reach. In a state so in-
significant our commerce would be a prey to the
wanton intermeddlings of all nations at war with
each other; who, having nothing to fear from us,
would with little scruple or remorse supply their
wants by depredations on our property as often as
it fell in their way. The rights of neutrality will
only be respected when they are defended by an
adequate power. A nation, despicable by its weak-
ness, forfeits even the privilege of being neutral.

Under a vigorous national government, the nat-
ural strength and resources of the country, directed
to a common interest, would baffle all the combina-
tions of European jealousy to restrain our growth.
This situation would even take away the motive to
such combinations, by inducing an impracticability
of success. An active commerce, an extensive navi-
gation, and a nourishing marine would then be
the offspring of moral and physical necessity. We
might defy the little arts of the little politicians to
control or vary the irresistible and unchangeable
course of nature.

84 Alexander Hamilton

But in a state of disunion, these combinations
might exist and might operate with success. It
would be in the power of the maritime nations,
availing themselves of our universal impotence, to
prescribe the conditions of our political existence;
and as they have a common interest in being our
carriers, and still more in preventing our becoming
theirs, they would in all probability combine to em-
barrass our navigation in such a manner as would in
effect destroy it, and confine us to a passive com-
merce. We should then be compelled to content
ourselves with the first price of our commodities,
and to see the profits of our trade snatched from us
to enrich our enemies and persecutors. That un-
equalled spirit of enterprise, which signalizes the
genius of the American merchants and navigators,
and which is in itself an inexhaustible mine of na-
tional wealth, would be stifled and lost, and poverty
and disgrace would overspread a country which, with
wisdom, might make herself the admiration and envy
of the world.

There are rights of great moment to the trade of
America which are rights of the Union — I allude to
the fisheries, to the navigation of the Western lakes,
and to that of the Mississippi. The dissolution of
the Confederacy would give room for delicate ques-
tions concerning the future existence of these rights ;
which the interest of more powerful partners would
hardly fail to solve to our disadvantage. The dis-
position of Spain with regard to the Mississippi needs
no comment. France and Britain are concerned
with us in the fisheries, and view them as of the ut-

The Federalist 85

most moment to their navigation. They, of course,
would hardly remain long indifferent to that decided
mastery, of which experience has shown us to be
possessed in this valuable branch of traffic, and by
which we are able to undersell those nations in their
own markets. What more natural than that they
should be disposed to exclude from the lists such
dangerous competitors?

This branch of trade ought not to be considered
as a partial benefit. All the navigating States may,
in different degrees, advantageously participate in
it, and under circumstances of a greater extension
of mercantile capital, would not be unlikely to do it.
As a nursery of seamen, it now is, or, when time
shall have more nearly assimilated the principles of
navigation in the several States, will become, a
universal resource. To the establishment of a navy,
it must be indispensable.

To this great national object, a navy, union will
contribute in various ways. Every institution will
grow and flourish in proportion to the quantity and
extent of the means concentred towards its forma-
tion and support. A navy of the United States, as
it would embrace the resources of all, is an object
far less remote than a navy of any single State or
partial confederacy, which would only embrace the
resources of a single part. It happens, indeed, that
different portions of confederated America possess
each some peculiar advantage for this essential es-
tablishment. The more southern States furnish in
greater abundance certain kinds of naval stores
— tar, pitch, and turpentine. Their wood for the

86 Alexander Hamilton

construction of ships is also of a more solid and lasting
texture. The difference in the duration of the ships
of which the navy might be composed, if chiefly con-
structed of Southern wood, would be of signal im-
portance, either in the view of naval strength or of
national economy. Some of the Southern and of
the Middle States yield a greater plenty of iron, and
of better quality. Seamen must chiefly be drawn
from the Northern hive. The necessity of naval
protection to external or maritime commerce does
not require a particular elucidation, no more than
the conduciveness of that species of commerce to the
prosperity of a navy.

An unrestrained intercourse between the States
themselves will advance the trade of each by an in-
terchange of their respective productions, not only
for the supply of reciprocal wants at home, but for
exportation to foreign markets. The veins of com-
merce in every part will be replenished, and will
acquire additional motion and vigor from a free cir-
culation of the commodities of every part. Com-
mercial enterprise will have much greater scope,
from the diversity in the productions of different
States. When the staple of one fails from a bad
harvest or unproductive crop, it can call to its aid
the staple of another. The variety, not less than
the value, of products for exportation contributes
to the activity of foreign commerce. It can be con-
ducted upon much better terms with a large number
of materials of a given value than with a small num-
ber of materials of the same value ; arising from the
competitions of trade and from the fluctuations of

The Federalist Sy

markets. Particular articles may be in great de-
mand at certain periods, and unsalable at others;
but if there be a variety of articles, it can scarcely
happen that they should all be at one time in the
latter predicament, and on this account the opera-
tions of the merchant would be less liable to any
considerable obstruction or stagnation. The specu-
lative trader will at once perceive the force of these
observations, and will acknowledge that the aggre-
gate balance of the commerce of the United States
would bid fair to be much more favorable than that
of the thirteen States without union or with partial
unions.

It may perhaps be replied to this, that whether the
States are united or disunited, there would still be
an intimate intercourse between them which would
answer the same ends ; but this intercourse would be
fettered, interrupted, and narrowed by a multiplic-
ity of causes, which in the course of these papers
have been amply detailed. A unity of commercial,
as well as political, interests, can only result from a
unity of government.

There are other points of view in which this sub-
ject might be placed, of a striking and animating
kind. But they would lead us too far into the re-
gions of futurity, and would involve topics not
proper for a newspaper discussion. I shall briefly
observe, that our situation invites and our interests
prompt us to aim at an ascendant in the system
of American affairs. The world may politically, as
well as geographically, be divided into four parts,
each having a distinct set of interests. Unhappily

88 Alexander Hamilton

for the other three, Europe, by her arms and by her
negotiations, by force and by fraud, has, in differ-
ent degrees, extended her dominion over them all.
Africa, Asia, and America, have successively felt her
domination. The superiority she has long main-
tained has tempted her to plume herself as the
Mistress of the World, and to consider the rest of
mankind as created for her benefit. Men admired as
profound philosophers have, in direct terms, attri-
buted to her inhabitants a physical superiority, and
have gravely asserted that all animals, and with
them the human species, degenerate in America —
that even dogs cease to bark after having breathed
awhile in our atmosphere.1 Facts have too long
supported these arrogant pretensions of the Euro-
peans. It belongs to us to vindicate the honor of
the human race, and to teach that assuming brother,
moderation. Union will enable us to do it. Dis-
union will add another victim to his triumphs. Let
Americans disdain to be the instruments of European
greatness! Let the thirteen States, bound together
in a strict and indissoluble Union, concur in erecting
one great American system, superior to the control
of all transatlantic force or influence, and able to
dictate the terms of the connection between the old

and the new world!

Publius.

1 Recherches philosophiques sur les Amiricains . — Publius.

The Federalist 89

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, November 27, 1787

THE FEDERALIST. No. XII

(Hamilton)

To the People of the State of New York:

The effects of Union upon the commercial prosper-
ity of the States have been sufficiently delineated.
Its tendency to promote the interests of revenue will
be the subject of our present inquiry.

The prosperity of commerce is now perceived and
acknowledged by all enlightened statesmen to be the
most useful as well as the most productive source of
national wealth, and has accordingly become a pri-
mary object of their political cares. By multiplying
the means of gratification, by promoting the intro-
duction and circulation of the precious metals, those
darling objects of human avarice and enterprise, it
serves to vivify and invigorate the channels of in-
dustry, and to make them flow with greater activity
and copiousness. The assiduous merchant, the la-
borious husbandman, the active mechanic, and the
industrious manufacturer, — all orders of men, look
forward with eager expectation and growing alacrity
to this pleasing reward of their toils. The often-
agitated question between agriculture and com-
merce has, from indubitable experience, received a
decision which has silenced the rivalship that once
subsisted between them, and has proved, to the satis-
faction of their friends, that their interests are inti-
mately blended and interwoven. It has been found
in various countries that, in proportion as com-
merce has flourished, land has risen in value. And

90 Alexander Hamilton

how could it have happened otherwise ? Could that
which procures a freer vent for the products of the
earth, which furnishes new incitements to the cul-
tivation of land, which is the most powerful instru-
ment in increasing the quantity of money in a state
— could that, in fine, which is the faithful handmaid
of labor and industry, in every shape, fail to augment
that article, which is the prolific parent of far the
greatest part of the objects upon which they are
exerted? It is astonishing that so simple a truth
should ever have had an adversary; and it is one,
among a multitude of proofs, how apt a spirit of ill-
informed jealousy, or of too great abstraction and
refinement, is to lead men astray from the plainest
truths of reason and conviction.

The ability of a country to pay taxes must always
be proportioned, in a great degree, to the quantity
of money in circulation, and to the celerity with
which it circulates. Commerce, contributing to
both these objects, must of necessity render the pay-
ment of taxes easier, and facilitate the requisite sup-
plies to the treasury. The hereditary dominions of
the Emperor of Germany contain a great extent of
fertile, cultivated, and populous territory, a large
proportion of which is situated in mild and luxuriant
climates. In some parts of this territory are to be
found the best gold and silver mines in Europe.
And yet, from the want of the fostering influence
of commerce, that monarch can boast but slender
revenues. He has several times been compelled to
owe obligations to the pecuniary succors of other
nations for the preservation of his essential inter-

The Federalist 91

ests, and is unable, upon the strength of his own re-
sources, to sustain a long or continued war.

But it is not in this aspect of the subject alone
that Union will be seen to conduce to the purpose of
revenue. There are other points of view, in which
its influence will appear more immediate and deci-
sive. It is evident from the state of the country,
from the habits of the people, from the experience
we have had on the point itself, that it is impractica-
ble to raise any very considerable sums by direct
taxation. Tax laws have in vain been multiplied;
new methods to enforce the collection have in vain
been tried; the public expectation has been uni-
formly disappointed, and the treasuries of the States
have remained empty. The popular system of ad-
ministration inherent in the nature of popular gov-
ernment, coinciding with the real scarcity of money
incident to a languid and mutilated state of trade,
has hitherto defeated every experiment for exten-
sive collections, and has at length taught the different
legislatures the folly of attempting them.

No person acquainted with what happens in other
countries will be surprised at this circumstance. In
so opulent a nation as that of Britain, where direct
taxes from superior wealth must be much more
tolerable, and, from the vigor of the government,
much more practicable, than in America, far the
greatest part of the national revenue is derived from
taxes of the indirect kind, from imposts, and from
excises. Duties on imported articles form a large
branch of this latter description.

In America, it is evident that we must a long time

92 Alexander Hamilton

depend for the means of revenue chiefly on such duties.
In most parts of it, excises must be confined within
a narrow compass. The genius of the people will ill
brook the inquisitive and peremptory spirit of excise
laws. The pockets of the farmers, on the other hand,
will reluctantly yield but scanty supplies, in the un-
welcome shape of impositions on their houses and
lands; and personal property is too precarious and
invisible a fund to be laid hold of in any other way
than by the imperceptible agency of taxes on con-
sumption.

If these remarks have any foundation, that state
of things which will best enable us to improve and
extend so valuable a resource must be best adapted
to our political welfare. And it cannot admit of a
serious doubt, that this state of things must rest on
the basis of a general Union. As far as this would be
conducive to the interests of commerce, so far it must
tend to the extension of the revenue to be drawn from
that source. As far as it would contribute to ren-
dering regulations for the collection of the duties
more simple and efficacious, so far it must serve to
answer the purposes of making the same rate of du-
ties more productive, and of putting it into the power
of the government to increase the rate without
prejudice to trade.

The relative situation of these States ; the number
of rivers with which they are intersected, and of bays
that wash their shores ; the facility of communication
in every direction ; the affinity of language and man-
ners; the familiar habits of intercourse; — all these
are circumstances that would conspire to render an

The Federalist 93

illicit trade between them a matter of little difficulty,
and would insure frequent evasions of the commer-
cial regulations of each other. The separate States
or confederacies would be necessitated by mutual
jealousy to avoid the temptations to that kind of
trade by the lowness of their duties. The temper of
our governments, for a long time to come, would not
permit those rigorous precautions by which the
European nations guard the avenues into their re-
spective countries, as well by land as by water ; and
which, even there, are found insufficient obstacles
to the adventurous stratagems of avarice.

In France, there is an army of patrols (as they are
called) constantly employed to secure their fiscal
regulations against the inroads of the dealers in con-
traband trade. Mr. Neckar computes the number
of these patrols at upwards of twenty thousand.
This shows the immense difficulty in preventing that
species of traffic, where there is an inland communi-
cation, and places in a strong light the disadvantages
with which the collection of duties in this country
would be encumbered, if by disunion the States
should be placed in a situation, with respect to each
other, resembling that of France with respect to
her neighbors. The arbitrary and vexatious powers
with which the patrols are necessarily armed, would
be intolerable in a free country.

If, on the contrary, there be but one government
pervading all the States, there will be, as to the prin-
cipal part of our commerce, but one side to guard —
the Atlantic coast. Vessels arriving directly from
foreign countries, laden with valuable cargoes, would

94 Alexander Hamilton

rarely choose to hazard themselves to the complicated
and critical perils which would attend attempts to
unlade prior to their coming into port. They would
have to dread both the dangers of the coast, and of
detection, as well after as before their arrival at the
places of their final destination. An ordinary de- '
gree of vigilance would be competent to the preven- .
tion of any material infractions upon the rights of
the revenue. A few armed vessels, judiciously sta-
tioned at the entrances of our ports, might at a
small expense be made useful sentinels of the laws.
And the government having the same interest to pro-
vide against violations everywhere, the co-operation
of its measures in each State would have a powerful
tendency to render them effectual. Here also we
should preserve, by Union, an advantage which na-
ture holds out to us, and which would be relin-
quished by separation. The United States lie at a
great distance from Europe, and at a considerable
distance from all other places with which they would
have extensive connections of foreign trade. The
passage from them to us, in a few hours, or in a
single night, as between the coasts of France and
Britain, and of other neighboring nations, would be
impracticable. This is a prodigious security against
a direct contraband with foreign countries; but a
circuitous contraband to one State, through the
medium of another, would be both easy and safe.
The difference between a direct importation from
abroad, and an indirect importation through the
channel of a neighboring State, in small parcels, ac-
cording to time and opportunity, with the additional

The Federalist 95

facilities of inland communication, must be palpable
to every man of discernment.

It is therefore evident, that one national govern-
ment would be able, at much less expense, to ex-
tend the duties on imports, beyond comparison,
further than would be practicable to the States sepa-
rately, or to any partial confederacies. Hitherto, I
believe, it may safely be asserted, that these duties
have not upon an average exceeded in any State
three per cent. In France they are estimated to be
about fifteen per cent., and in Britain they exceed
this proportion.1 There seems to be nothing to
hinder their being increased in this country to at
least treble their present amount. The single ar-
ticle of ardent spirits, under federal regulation,
might be made to furnish a considerable revenue.
Upon a ratio to the importation into this State, the
whole quantity imported into the United States
may be estimated at four millions of gallons; which,
at a shilling per gallon, would produce two hundred
thousand pounds. That article would well bear this
rate of duty; and if it should tend to diminish the
consumption of it, such an effect would be equally
favorable to the agriculture, to the economy, to the
morals, and to the health of the society. There is,
perhaps, nothing so much a subject of national ex-
travagance as these spirits.

What will be the consequence, if we are not able
to avail ourselves of the resource in question in its full
extent? A nation cannot long exist without reve-
nues. Destitute of this essential support, it must

1 If my memory be right they amount to twenty per cent. — Publius.

g6 Alexander Hamilton

resign its independence, and sink into the degraded
condition of a province. This is an extremity to
which no government will of choice accede. Reve-
nue, therefore, must be had at all events. In this
country, if the principal part be not drawn from
commerce, it must fall with oppressive weight upon
land. It has been already intimated that excises,
in their true signification, are too little in unison
with the feelings of the people, to admit of great use
being made of that mode of taxation; nor, indeed,
in the States where almost the sole employment is
agriculture, are the objects proper for excise suffi-
ciently numerous to permit very ample collections
in that way. Personal estate (as has been before
remarked), from the difficulty in tracing it, cannot
be subjected to large contributions, by any other
means than by taxes on consumption. In populous
cities, it may be enough the subject of conjecture,
to occasion the oppression of individuals, without
much aggregate benefit to the State; but beyond
these circles, it must, in a great measure, escape the
eye and the hand of the tax-gatherer. As the neces-
sities of the State, nevertheless, must be satisfied in
some mode or other, the defect of other resources
must throw the principal weight of public burdens on
the possessors of land. And as, on the other hand,
the wants of the government can never obtain an
adequate supply, unless all the sources of revenue are
open to its demands, the finances of the community,
under such embarrassments, cannot be put into a
situation consistent with its respectability or its se-
curity. Thus we shall not even have the consola-

The Federalist 97

tions of a full treasury, to atone for the oppression of
that valuable class of the citizens who are employed
in the cultivation of the soil. But public and pri-
vate distress will keep pace with each other in
gloomy concert ; and unite in deploring the infatua-
tion of those counsels which led to disunion.

Publius.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. XIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

As connected with the subject of revenue, we
may with propriety consider that of economy. The
money saved from one object may be usefully ap-
plied to another, and there will be so much the less
to be drawn from the pockets of the people. If the
States are united under one government, there will
be but one national civil list to support ; if they are
divided into several confederacies, there will be as
many different national civil lists to be provided for
— and each of them, as to the principal departments t
coextensive with that which would be necessary for
a government of the whole. The entire separation
of the States into thirteen unconnected sovereignties
is a project too extravagant and too replete with
danger to have many advocates. The ideas of men
who speculate upon the dismemberment of the em-
pire seem generally turned towards three confedera-
cies— one consisting of the four Northern, another
of the four Middle, and a third of the five Southern

VOL. XI. — 7.

98 Alexander Hamilton

States. There is little probability that there would
be a greater number. According to this distribu-
tion, each confederacy would comprise an extent of
territory larger than that of the kingdom of Great
Britain. No well-informed man will suppose that the
affairs of such a confederacy can be properly regu-
lated by a government less comprehensive in its
organs or institutions than that which has been pro-
posed by the convention. When the dimensions of
a State attain to a certain magnitude, it requires the
same energy of government and the same forms of
administration which are requisite in one of much
greater extent. This idea admits not of precise
demonstration, because there is no rule by which we
can measure the momentum of civil power necessary
to the government of any given number of individ-
uals ; but when we consider that the island of Brit-
ain, nearly commensurate with each of the supposed
confederacies, contains about eight millions of peo-
ple, and when we reflect upon the degree of authority
required to direct the passions of so large a society
to the public good, we shall see no reason to doubt
that the like portion of power would be sufficient to
perform the same task in a society far more numer-
ous. Civil power, properly organized and exerted,
is capable of diffusing its force to a very great extent ;
and can, in a manner reproduce itself in every part
of a great empire by a judicious arrangement of sub-
ordinate institutions.

The supposition that each confederacy into which
the States would be likely to be divided would re-
quire a government not less comprehensive than the

The Federalist 99

one proposed, will be strengthened by another sup-
position, more probable than that which presents us
with three confederacies as the alternative to a gen-
eral Union. If we attend carefully to geographical
and commercial considerations, in conjunction with
the habits and prejudices of the different States, we
shall be led to conclude that in case of disunion they
will most naturally league themselves under two gov-
ernments. The four Eastern States, from all the
causes that form the links of national sympathy and
connection, may with certainty be expected to
unite. New York, situated as she is, would never
be unwise enough to oppose a feeble and unsup-
ported flank to the weight of that confederacy. There
are other obvious reasons that would facilitate her
accession to it. New Jersey is too small a State to
think of being a frontier, in opposition to this still
more powerful combination; nor do there appear
to be any obstacles to her admission into it. Even
Pennsylvania would have strong inducements to
join the Northern league. An active foreign com-
merce, on the basis of her own navigation, is her true
policy, and coincides with the opinions and disposi-
tions of her citizens. The more Southern States,
from various circumstances, may not think them-
selves much interested in the encouragement of
navigation. They may prefer a system which would
give unlimited scope to all nations to be the carriers
as well as the purchasers of their commodities. Penn-
sylvania may not choose to confound her interests in
a connection so adverse to her policy. As she must
at all events be a frontier, she may deem it most

ioo Alexander Hamilton

consistent with her safety to have her exposed side
turned towards the weaker power of the Southern,
rather than towards the stronger power of the
Northern, Confederacy. This would give her the
fairest chance to avoid being the Flanders of Amer-
ica. Whatever may be the determination of Penn-
sylvania, if the Northern Confederacy includes New
Jersey, there is no likelihood of more than one con-
federacy to the south of that State.

Nothing can be more evident than that the thirteen
States will be able to support a national government
better than one half, or one third, or any number
less than the whole. This reflection must have great
weight in obviating that objection to the proposed
plan, which is founded on the principle of expense,
an objection, however, which, when we come to take
a nearer view of it, will appear in every light to stand
on mistaken ground.

If, in addition to the consideration of a plurality
of civil lists, we take into view the number of per-
sons who must necessarily be employed to guard
the inland communication between the different con-
federacies against illicit trade, and who in time will
infallibly spring up out of the necessities of revenue ;
and if we also take into view the military establish-
ments which it has been shown would unavoidably
result from the jealousies and conflicts of the several
nations into which the States would be divided, we
shall clearly discover that a separation would be not
less injurious to the economy, than to the tranquil-
lity, commerce, revenue, and liberty of every part.

Publius.

The Federalist 101

From the New York Packet, Friday, November 30, 1787
THE FEDERALIST. No. XIV

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

We have seen the necessity of the Union, as our
bulwark against foreign danger, as the conservator
of peace among ourselves, as the guardian of our
commerce and other common interests, as the only
substitute for those military establishments which
have subverted the liberties of the Old World, and
as the proper antidote for the diseases of faction,
which have proved fatal to other popular govern-
ments, and of which alarming symptoms have been
betrayed by our own. All thr.t romains, within this
branch of our inquiries, is to take notice of an objec-
tion that may be drawn from the great extent of
country which the Union embraces. A few observa-
tions on this subject will be the more proper, as it
is perceived that the adversaries of the new Con-
stitution are availing themselves of the prevailing
prejudice with regard to the practicable sphere of
republican administration, in order to supply, by
imaginary difficulties, the want of those solid ob-
jections which they endeavor in vain to find.

The error which limits republican government to
a narrow district has been unfolded and refuted in
preceding papers. I remark here only that it seems
to owe its rise and prevalence chiefly to the confound-
ing of a republic with a democracy, applying to the
former reasonings drawn from the nature of the lat-
ter. The true distinction between these forms was

102 Alexander Hamilton

also adverted to on a former occasion. It is, that in
a democracy, the people meet and exercise the gov-
ernment in person; in a republic, they assemble and
administer it by their representatives and agents. A
democracy, consequently, will be confined to a small
spot. A republic may be extended over a large
region.

To this accidental source of the error may be added
the artifice of some celebrated authors, whose wri-
tings have had a great share in forming the mod-
ern standard of political opinions. Being subjects
either of an absolute or limited monarchy, they have
endeavored to heighten the advantages, or palliate
the evils of those forms, by placing in comparison
the vices and defects of the republican, and by citing
as specimens of the latter the turbulent democracies
of ancient Greece and modern Italy. Under the
confusion of names, it has been an easy task to
transfer to a republic observations applicable to a
democracy only; and among others, the observa-
tion that it can never be established but among a
small number of people, living within a small com-
pass of territory.

Such a fallacy may have been the less perceived,
as most of the popular governments of antiquity
were of the democratic species ; and even in modern
Europe, to which we owe the great principle of re-
presentation, no example is seen of a government
wholly popular, and founded, at the same time,
wholly on that principle. If Europe has the merit
of discovering this great mechanical power in gov-
ernment, by the simple agency of which the will of

The Federalist 103

the largest political body may be concentred, and its
force directed to any object which the public good
requires, America can claim the merit of making the
discovery the basis of unmixed and extensive re-
publics. It is only to be lamented that any of her
citizens should wish to deprive her of the additional
merit of displaying its full efficacy in the establish-
ment of the comprehensive system now under her
consideration.

As the natural limit of a democracy is that dis-
tance from the central point which will just permit
the most remote citizens to assemble as often as
their public functions demand, and will include no
greater number than can join in those functions ; so
the natural limit of a republic is that distance from
the centre which will barely allow the representa-
tives to meet as often as may be necessary for the
administration of public affairs. Can it be said that
the limits of the United States exceed this distance ?
It will not be said by those who recollect that the
Atlantic coast is the longest side of the Union, that
during the term of thirteen years, the representa-
tives of the States have been almost continually
assembled, and that the members from the most
distant States are not chargeable with greater inter-
missions of attendance than those from the States in
the neighborhood of Congress.

That we may form a juster estimate with regard to
this interesting subject, let us resort to the actual
dimensions of the Union. The limits, as fixed by
the treaty of peace, are: on the east the Atlantic, on
the south the latitude of thirty-one degrees, on the

104 Alexander Hamilton

west the Mississippi, and on the north an irregular
line running in some instances beyond the forty-
fifth degree, in others falling as low as the forty-
second. The southern shore of Lake Erie lies below
that latitude. Computing the distance between the
thirty-first and forty-fifth degrees, it amounts to
nine hundred and seventy -three common miles ; com-
puting it from thirty-one to forty-two degrees, to
seven hundred and sixty-four miles and a half.
Taking the mean for the distance, the amount will
be eight hundred and sixty-eight miles and three
fourths. The mean distance from the Atlantic to
the Mississippi does not probably exceed seven hun-
dred and fifty miles. On a comparison of this ex-
tent with that of several countries in Europe, the
practicability of rendering our system commen-
surate to it appears to be demonstrable. It is not a
great deal larger than Germany, where a diet repre-
senting the whole empire is continually assembled;
or than Poland before the late dismemberment,
where another national diet was the depositary of
the supreme power. Passing by France and Spain,
we find that in Great Britain, inferior as it may be in
size, the representatives of the northern extremity
of the island have as far to travel to the national
council as will be required of those of the most re-
mote parts of the Union.

Favorable as this view of the subject may be, some
observations remain which will place it in a light still
more satisfactory.

In the first place it is to be remembered that the
general government is not to be charged with the

The Federalist 105

whole power of making and administering laws. Its
jurisdiction is limited to certain enumerated objects,
which concern all the members of the republic, but
which are not to be attained by the separate provi-
sions of any. The subordinate governments, which
can extend their care to all those other objects which
can be separately provided for, will retain their due
authority and activity. Were it proposed by the
plan of the Convention to abolish the governments
of the particular States, its adversaries would have
some ground for their objection; though it would
not be difficult to show that if they were abolished
the general government would be compelled, by the
principle of self-preservation, to reinstate them in
their proper jurisdiction.

A second observation to be made is that the im-
mediate object of the federal Constitution is to
secure the union of the thirteen primitive States,
which we know to be practicable; and to add to
them such other States as may arise in their own
bosoms, or in their neighborhoods, which we cannot
doubt to be equally practicable. The arrangements
that may be necessary for those angles and fractions
of our territory which lie on our northwestern fron-
tier, must be left to those whom further discoveries
and experience will render more equal to the task.

Let it be remarked, in the third place, that the in-
tercourse throughout the Union will be facilitated
by new improvements. Roads will everywhere be
shortened, and kept in better order; accommoda-
tions for travellers will be multiplied and meliorated ;
an interior navigation on our eastern side will be

106 Alexander Hamilton

opened throughout, or nearly throughout, the whole
extent of the thirteen States. The communication
between the Western and Atlantic districts, and
between different parts of each, will be rendered
more and more easy by those numerous canals with
which the beneficence of nature has intersected our
country, and which art finds it so little difficult to
connect and complete.

A fourth and still more important consideration is,
that as almost every State will, on one side or other,
be a frontier, and will thus find, in a regard to its
safety, an inducement to make some sacrifices for
the sake of the general protection; so the States
which lie at the greatest distance from the heart of
the Union, and which, of course, may partake least
of the ordinary circulation of its benefits, will be at
the same time immediately contiguous to foreign
nations, and will consequently stand, on particular
occasions, in greatest need of its strength and re-
sources. It may be inconvenient for Georgia, or the
States forming our western or northeastern borders,
to send their representatives to the seat of govern-
ment; but they would find it more so to struggle
alone against an invading enemy, or even to support
alone the whole expense of those precautions which
may be dictated by the neighborhood of continual
danger. If they should derive less benefit, there-
fore, from the Union in some respects than the less
distant States, they will derive greater benefit from
it in other respects, and thus the proper equilibrium
will be maintained throughout.

I submit to you, my fellow-citizens, these con-

The Federalist 107

siderations, in full confidence that the good sense
which has so often marked your decisions will allow
them their due weight and effect ; and that you will
never suffer difficulties, however formidable in ap-
pearance, or however fashionable the error on which
they may be founded, to drive you into the gloomy
and perilous scene into which the advocates for dis-
union would conduct you. Hearken not to the un-
natural voice which tells you that the people of
America, knit together as they are by so many cords
of affection, can no longer live together as members of
the same family ; can no longer continue the mutual
guardians of their mutual happiness; can no longer
be fellow-citizens of one great, respectable, and
flourishing empire. Hearken not to the voice which
petulantly tells you that the form of government
recommended for your adoption is a novelty in the
political world; that it has never yet had a place
in the theories of the wildest projectors; that it
rashly attempts what it is impossible to accomplish.
No, my countrymen, shut your ears against this un-
hallowed language. Shut your hearts against the
poison which it conveys; the kindred blood which
flows in the veins of American citizens, the mingled
blood which they have shed in defence of their
sacred rights, consecrate their Union, and excite
horror at the idea of their becoming aliens, rivals,
enemies. And if novelties are to be shunned, be-
lieve me, the most alarming of all novelties, the most
wild of all projects, the most rash of all attempts, is
that of rending us in pieces, in order to preserve our
liberties and promote our happiness. But why is

108 Alexander Hamilton

the experiment of an extended republic to be re-
jected, merely because it may comprise what is new?
Is it not the glory of the people of America, that,
whilst they have paid a decent regard to the opinions
of former times and other nations, they have not
suffered a blind veneration for antiquity, for custom,
or for names, to overrule the suggestions of their
own good sense, the knowledge of their own situa-
tion, and the lessons of their own experience? To
this manly spirit, posterity will be indebted for the
possession, and the world for the example, of the
numerous innovations displayed on the American
theatre, in favor of private rights and public happi-
ness. Had no important step been taken by the
leaders of the Revolution for which a precedent
could not be discovered, no government established
of which an exact model did not present itself, the
people of the United States might, at this moment,
have been numbered among the melancholy victims
of misguided councils, must at best have been labor-
ing under the weight of some of those forms which
have crushed the liberties of the rest of mankind.
Happily for America, happily, we trust, for the
whole human race, they pursued a new and more
noble course. They accomplished a revolution which
has no parallel in the annals of human society. They
reared the fabrics of governments which have no
model on the face of the globe. They formed the
design of a great Confederacy, which it is incumbent
on their successors to improve and perpetuate. If
their works betray imperfections, we wonder at the
fewness of them. If they erred most in the structure

The Federalist 109

of the Union, this was the work most difficult to be
executed; this is the work which has been new
modelled by the act of your convention, and it is
that act on which you are now to deliberate and to
decide.

Publius.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. XV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

In the course of the preceding papers, I have en-
deavored, my fellow-citizens, to place before you, in
a clear and convincing light, the importance of
Union to your political safety and happiness. I
have unfolded to you a complication of dangers to
which you would be exposed, should you permit
that sacred knot which binds the people of America
together to be severed or dissolved by ambition or
by avarice, by jealousy or by misrepresentation. In
the sequel of the inquiry through which I propose to
accompany you, the truths intended to be incul-
cated will receive further confirmation from facts
and arguments hitherto unnoticed. If the road
over which you will still have to pass should in some
places appear to you tedious or irksome, you will re-
collect that you are in quest of information on a
subject the most momentous which can engage the
attention of a free people, that the field through
which you have to travel is in itself spacious, and

no Alexander Hamilton

that the difficulties of the journey have been un-
necessarily increased by the mazes with which soph-
istry has beset the way. It will be my aim to remove
the obstacles from your progress in as compendious
a manner as it can be done, without sacrificing
utility to despatch.

In pursuance of the plan which I have laid down
for the discussion of the subject, the point next in
order to be examined is the "insufficiency of the
present Confederation to the preservation of the
Union." It may perhaps be asked what need there
is of reasoning or proof to illustrate a position which
is not either controverted or doubted, to which the
understandings and feelings of all classes of men
assent and which in substance is admitted by the
opponents as well as by the friends of the new Con-
stitution. It must in truth be acknowledged that,
however these may differ in other respects, they in
general appear to harmonize in this sentiment, at
least, that there are material imperfections in our na-
tional system, and that something is necessary to be
done to rescue us from impending anarchy. The facts
that support this opinion are no longer objects of
speculation. They have forced themselves upon the
sensibility of the people at large, and have at length
extorted from those, whose mistaken policy has had
the principal share in precipitating the extremity at
which we are arrived, a reluctant confession of the
reality of those defects in the scheme of our federal
government, which have been long pointed out and
regretted by the intelligent friends of the Union.

We may indeed with propriety be said to have

The Federalist in

reached almost the last stage of national humiliation.
There is scarcely any thing that can wound the pride
or degrade the character of an independent nation
which we do not experience. Are there engage-
ments to the performance of which we are held by
every tie respectable among men? These are the
subjects of constant and unblushing violation. Do
we owe debts to foreigners and to our own citizens
contracted in a time of imminent peril for the pre-
servation of our political existence? These remain
without any proper or satisfactory provision for
their discharge. Have we valuable territories and
important posts in the possession of a foreign power
which, by express stipulations, ought long since to
have been surrendered? These are still retained, to
the prejudice of our interests, not less than of our
rights. Are we in a condition to resent or to repel
the aggression? We have neither troops, nor treas-
ury, nor government.1 Are we even in a condition
to remonstrate with dignity? The just imputations
on our own faith, in respect to the same treaty, ought
first to be removed. Are we entitled by nature and
compact to a free participation in the navigation of
the Mississippi? Spain excludes us from it. Is pub-
lic credit an indispensable resource in time of public
danger? We seem to have abandoned its cause as
desperate and irretrievable. Is commerce of im-
portance to national wealth? Ours is at the lowest
point of declension. Is respectability in the eyes of
foreign powers a safeguard against foreign encroach-
ments? The imbecility of our government even

1 "I mean for the Union." — Publius.

H2 Alexander Hamilton

forbids them to treat with us. Our ambassadors
abroad are the mere pageants of mimic sovereignty.
Is a violent and unnatural decrease in the value of
land a symptom of national distress? The price of
improved land in most parts of the country is much
lower than can be accounted for by the quantity of
waste land at market, and can only be fully ex-
plained by that want of private and public con-
fidence, which is so alarmingly prevalent among all
ranks, and which has a direct tendency to de-
preciate property of every kind. Is private credit
the friend and patron of industry? That most use-
ful kind which relates to borrowing and lending is
reduced within the narrowest limits, and this still
more from an opinion of insecurity than from the
scarcity of money. To shorten an enumeration of
particulars which can afford neither pleasure nor
instruction, it may in general be demanded, what
indication is there of national disorder, poverty, and
insignificance that could befall a community so pe-
culiarly blessed with natural advantages as we are,
which does not form a part of the dark catalogue of
our public misfortunes?

This is the melancholy situation to which we have
been brought by those very maxims and counsels
which would now deter us from adopting the pro-
posed Constitution; and which, not content with
having conducted us to the brink of a precipice, seem
resolved to plunge us into the abyss that awaits us
below. Here, my countrymen, impelled by every
motive that ought to influence an enlightened people,
let us make a firm stand for our safety, our tran-

The Federalist 113

quillity, our dignity, our reputation. Let us at last
break the fatal charm which has too long seduced us
from the paths of felicity and prosperity.

It is true, as has been before observed, that facts,
too stubborn to be resisted, have produced a species
of general assent to the abstract proposition that
there exist material defects in our national system;
but the usefulness of the concession, on the part of
the old adversaries of federal measures, is destroyed
by a strenuous opposition to a remedy, upon the
only principles that can give it a chance of success.
While they admit that the government of the United
States is destitute of energy, they contend against
conferring upon it those powers which are requisite
to supply that energy. They seem still to aim at
things repugnant and irreconcilable; at an aug-
mentation of federal authority, without a diminu-
tion of State authority ; at sovereignty in the Union,
and complete independence in the members. They
still, in fine, seem to cherish with blind devotion the
political monster of an imperium in imperio. This
renders a full display of the principal defects of the
Confederation necessary, in order to show that the
evils we experience do not proceed from minute or
partial imperfections, but from fundamental errors
in the structure of the building, which cannot be
amended otherwise than by an alteration in the first
principles and main pillars of the fabric.

The great and radical vice in the construction of
the existing Confederation is in the principle of
LEGISLATION for STATES or GOVERNMENTS,
in their CORPORATE or COLLECTIVE CAPA-

VOL. XI.— 8.

ii4 Alexander Hamilton

CITIES, and as contradistinguished from the IN-
DIVIDUALS of which they consist. Though this
principle does not run through all the powers dele-
gated to the Union, yet it pervades and governs
those on which the efficacy of the rest depends.
Except as to the rule of apportionment, the United
States has an indefinite discretion to make requisi-
tions for men and money; but they have no au-
thority to raise either, by regulations extending to
the individual citizens of America. The conse-
quence of this is, that though in theory their
resolutions concerning those objects are laws, con-
stitutionally binding on the members of the Union,
yet in practice they are mere recommendations which
the States observe or disregard at their option.

It is a singular instance of the capriciousness of
the human mind, that after all the admonitions we
have had from experience on this head, there should
still be found men who object to the new Constitu-
tion, for deviating from a principle which has been
found the bane of the old, and which is in itself evi-
dently incompatible with the idea of government ; a
principle, in short, which, if it is to be executed at all,
must substitute the violent and sanguinary agency
of the sword to the mild influence of the magistracy.

There is nothing absurd or impracticable in the
idea of a league or alliance between independent na-
tions for certain defined purposes precisely stated in
a treaty regulating all the details of time, place, cir-
cumstance, and quantity ; leaving nothing to future
discretion; and depending for its execution on the
good faith of the parties. Compacts of this kind

The Federalist 115

exist among all civilized nations, subject to the usual
vicissitudes of peace and war, of observance and non-
observance, as the interests or passions of the con-
tracting powers dictate. In the early part of the
present century there was an epidemical rage in
Europe for this species of compacts, from which the
politicians of the times fondly hoped for benefits which
were never realized. With a view to establishing the
equilibrium of power and the peace of that part
of the world, all the resources of negotiation were
exhausted, and triple and quadruple alliances were
formed; but they were scarcely formed before they
were broken, giving an instructive but afflicting
lesson to mankind, how little dependence is to be
placed on treaties which have no other sanction
than the obligations of good faith, and which oppose
general considerations of peace and justice to the
impulse of any immediate interest or passion.

If the particular States in this country are dis-
posed to stand in a similar relation to each other, and
to drop the project of a general discretionary
superintendence, the scheme would indeed be per-
nicious, and would entail upon us all the mischiefs
which have been enumerated under the first head;
but it would have the merit of being, at least, con-
sistent and practicable. Abandoning all views to-
wards a confederate government, this would bring us
to a simple alliance offensive and defensive; and
would place us in a situation to be alternate friends
and enemies of each other, as our mutual jealousies
and rivalships, nourished by the intrigues of foreign
nations, should prescribe to us.

n6 Alexander Hamilton

But if we are unwilling to be placed in this perilous
situation; if we still will adhere to the design of a
national government, or, which is the same thing, of
a superintending power, under the direction of a com-
mon council, we must resolve to incorporate into our
plan those ingredients which may be considered as
forming the characteristic difference between a
league and a government; we must extend the au-
thority of the Union to the persons of the citizens, —
the only proper objects of government.

Government implies the power of making laws.
It is essential to the idea of a law, that it be attended
with a sanction; or, in other words, a penalty or
punishment for disobedience. If there be no pen-
alty annexed to disobedience, the resolutions or
commands which pretend to be laws will, in fact,
amount to nothing more than advice or recommenda-
tion. This penalty, whatever it may be, can only
be inflicted in two ways : by the agency of the courts
and ministers of justice, or by military force ; by the
coercion of the magistracy, or by the coercion of
arms. The first kind can evidently apply only to
men; the last kind must of necessity, be employed
against bodies politic, or communities, or States.
It is evident that there is no process of a court by
which the observance of the laws can, in the last
resort, be enforced. Sentences may be denounced
against them for violations of their duty ; but these
sentences can only be carried into execution by the
sword. In an association where the general au-
thority is confined to the collective bodies of the
communities that compose it, every breach of the

The Federalist 1 1 7

laws must involve a state of war ; and military exe-
cution must become the only instrument of civil
obedience. Such a state of things can certainly not
deserve the name of government, nor would any
prudent man choose to commit his happiness to it.
There was a time when we were told that breaches,
by the States, of the regulations of the federal au-
thority were not to be expected; that a sense of
common interest would preside over the conduct of
the respective members, and would beget a full com-
pliance with all the constitutional requisitions of the
Union. This language, at the present day, would
appear as wild as a great part of what we now hear
from the same quarter will be thought, when we
shall have received further lessons from that best
oracle of wisdom, experience. It at all times be-
trayed an ignorance of the true springs by which
human conduct is actuated, and belied the original
inducements to the establishment of civil power.
Why has government been instituted at all? Be-
cause the passions of men will not conform to the
dictates of reason and justice, without constraint.
Has it been found that bodies of men act with more
rectitude or greater disinterestedness than individ-
uals? The contrary of this has been inferred by
all accurate observers of the conduct of mankind;
and the inference is founded upon obvious reasons.
Regard to reputation has a less active influence,
when the infamy of a bad action is to be divided
among a number, than when it is to fall singly upon
one. A spirit of faction, which is apt to mingle its
poison in the deliberations of all bodies of men, will

n8 Alexander Hamilton

often hurry the persons of whom they are composed
into improprieties and excesses, for which they would
blush in a private capacity.

In addition to all this, there is, in the nature of
sovereign power, an impatience of control, that dis-
poses those who are invested with the exercise of it,
to look with an evil eye upon all external attempts to
restrain or direct its operations. From this spirit it
happens, that in every political association which is
formed upon the principle of uniting in a common
interest a number of lesser sovereignties, there will
be found a kind of eccentric tendency in the sub-
ordinate or inferior orbs, by the operation of which
there will be a perpetual effort in each to fly off from
the common centre. This tendency is not difficult
to be accounted for. It has its origin in the love of
power. Power controlled or abridged is almost
always the rival and enemy of that power by which
it is controlled or abridged. This simple proposition
will teach us, how little reason there is to expect,
that the persons intrusted with the administration
of the affairs of the particular members of a con-
federacy will at all times be ready, with perfect good-
humor, and an unbiassed regard to the public weal,
to execute the resolutions or decrees of the general
authority. The reverse of this results from the con-
stitution of human nature.

If, therefore, the measures of the Confederacy
cannot be executed without the intervention of the
particular administrations, there will be little pro-
spect of their being executed at all. The rulers of the
respective members, whether they have a constitu-

The Federalist 119

tional right to do it or not, will undertake to judge
of the propriety of the measures themselves. They
will consider the conformity of the thing proposed
or required to their immediate interests or aims;
the momentary conveniences or inconveniences that
would attend its adoption. All this will be done,
and in a spirit of interested and suspicious scrutiny,
without that knowledge of national circumstances
and reasons of state, which is essential to a right
judgment, and with that strong predilection in favor
of local objects, which can hardly fail to mislead the
decision. The same process must be repeated in
every member of which the body is constituted ; and
the execution of the plans, framed by the councils of
the whole, will always fluctuate on the discretion
of the ill-informed and prejudiced opinion of every
part. Those who have been conversant in the pro-
ceedings of popular assemblies; who have seen how
difficult it often is, where there is no exterior pres-
sure of circumstances, to bring them to harmonious
resolutions on important points, will readily con-
ceive how impossible it must be to induce a number
of such assemblies, deliberating at a distance from
each other, at different times, and under different
impressions, long to cooperate in the same views and
pursuits.

In our case, the concurrence of thirteen distinct
sovereign wills is requisite, under the Confederation,
to the complete execution of every important meas-
ure that proceeds from the Union. It has happened
as was to have been foreseen. The measures of the
Union have not been executed ; the delinquencies of

i2o Alexander Hamilton

the States have, step by step, matured themselves
to an extreme, which has, at length, arrested all the
wheels of the national government, and brought them
to an awful stand. Congress at this time scarcely
possess the means of keeping up the forms of ad-
ministration, till the States can have time to agree
upon a more substantial substitute for the present
shadow of a federal government. Things did not
come to this desperate extremity at once. The
causes which have been specified produced at first
only unequal and disproportionate degrees of com-
pliance with the requisitions of the Union. The
greater deficiencies of some States furnished the
pretext of example and the temptation of interest
to the complying, or to the least delinquent States.
Why should we do more in proportion than those
who are embarked with us in the same political voy-
age? Why should we consent to bear more than
our proper share of the common burden? These
were suggestions which human selfishness could not
withstand, and which even speculative men, who
looked forward to remote consequences, could not,
without hesitation, combat. Each State, yielding
to the persuasive voice of immediate interest or
convenience, has successively withdrawn its sup-
port, till the frail and tottering edifice seems ready
to fall upon our heads, and to crush us beneath its
ruins.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 121

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, December 4, 1787
THE FEDERALIST. No. XVI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The tendency of the principle of legislation for
States, or communities, in their political capacities,
as it has been exemplified by the experiment we
have made of it, is equally attested by the events
which have befallen all other governments of the
confederate kind, of which we have any account, in
exact proportion to its prevalence in those systems.
The confirmations of this fact will be worthy of a dis-
tinct and particular examination. I shall content
myself with barely observing here, that of all the
confederacies of antiquity, which history has handed
down to us, the Lycian and Achaean leagues, as far
as there remain vestiges of them, appear to have
been most free from the fetters of that mistaken
principle, and were accordingly those which have
best deserved, and have most liberally received, the
applauding suffrages of political writers.

This exceptionable principle may, as truly as em-
phatically, be styled the parent of anarchy: It has
been seen that delinquencies in the members of the
Union are its natural and necessary offspring; and
that whenever they happen, the only constitutional
remedy is force, and the immediate effect of the use
of it, civil war.

It remains to inquire how far so odious an engine
of government, in its application to us, would even
be capable of answering its end. If there should not

122 Alexander Hamilton

be a large army constantly at the disposal of the
national government it would either not be able to
employ force at all, or, when this could be done, it
would amount to a war between parts of the Con-
federacy concerning the infractions of a league, in
which the strongest combination would be most
likely to prevail, whether it consisted of those who
supported or of those who resisted the general au-
thority. It would rarely happen that the delin-
quency to be redressed would be confined to a single
member, and if there were more than one who had
neglected their duty, similarity of situation would
induce them to unite for common defence. Inde-
pendent of this motive of sympathy, if a large and
influential State should happen to be the aggressing
member, it would commonly have weight enough
with its neighbors to win over some of them as asso-
ciates to its cause. Specious arguments of danger
to the common liberty could easily be contrived;
plausible excuses for the deficiencies of the party
could, without difficulty, be invented to alarm the
apprehensions, inflame the passions, and conciliate
the good-will, even of those States which were not
chargeable with any violation or omission of duty.
This would be the more likely to take place, as the
delinquencies of the larger members might be ex-
pected sometimes to proceed from an ambitious pre-
meditation in their rulers, with a view to getting rid
of all external control upon their designs of personal
aggrandizement , the better to effect which it is pre-
sumable they would tamper beforehand with lead-
ing individuals in the adjacent States. If associates

The Federalist 123

could not be found at home, recourse would be had
to the aid of foreign powers, who would seldom be
disinclined to encouraging the dissensions of a Con-
federacy, from the firm union of which they had so
much to fear. When the sword is once drawn, the
passions of men observe no bounds of moderation.
The suggestions of wounded pride, the instigations
of irritated resentment, would be apt to carry the
States against which the arms of the Union were
exerted, to any extremes necessary to avenge the
affront or to avoid the disgrace of submission. The
first war of this kind would probably terminate in a
dissolution of the Union.

This may be considered as the violent death of the
Confederacy. Its more natural death is what we
now seem to be on the point of experiencing, if the
federal system be not speedily renovated in a more
substantial form. It is not probable, considering
the genius of this country, that the complying States
would often be inclined to support the authority of
the Union by engaging in a war against the non-
complying States. They would always be more
ready to pursue the milder course of putting them-
selves upon an equal footing with the delinquent
members by an imitation of their example. And
the guilt of all would thus become the security of
all. Our past experience has exhibited the opera-
tion of this spirit in its full light. There would, in
fact, be an insuperable difficulty in ascertaining
when force could with propriety be employed. In
the article of pecuniary contribution, which would
be the most usual source of delinquency, it would

124 Alexander Hamilton

often be impossible to decide whether it had pro-
ceeded from disinclination or inability. The pre-
tence of the latter would always be at hand. And
the case must be very flagrant in which its fallacy
could be detected with sufficient certainty to justify
the harsh expedient of compulsion. It is easy to
see that this problem alone, as often as it should
occur, would open a wide field for the exercise of
factious views, of partiality, and of oppression, in
the majority that happened to prevail in the na-
tional council.

It seems to require no pains to prove that the
States ought not to prefer a national Constitution
which could only be kept in motion by the instru-
mentality of a large army continually on foot to
execute the ordinary requisitions or decrees of the
government. And yet this is the plain alternative
involved by those who wish to deny it the power
of extending its operations to individuals. Such a
scheme, if practicable at all, would instantly degen-
erate into a military despotism ; but it will be found
in every light impracticable. The resources of the
Union would not be equal to the maintenance of an
army considerable enough to confine the larger
States within the limits of their duty; nor would
- the means ever be furnished of forming such an
army in the first instance. Whoever considers the
populousness and strength of several of these States
singly at the present juncture, and looks forward to
what they will become, even at the distance of half
a century, will at once dismiss as idle and visionary
any scheme which aims at regulating their move-

The Federalist 125

ments by laws to operate upon them in their collect-
ive capacities, and to be executed by a coercion
applicable to them in the same capacities. A pro-
ject of this kind is little less romantic than the
monster-taming spirit which is attributed to the
fabulous heroes and demi-gods of antiquity.

Even in those confederacies which have been com-
posed of members smaller than many of our counties,
the principle of legislation for sovereign States, sup-
ported by military coercion, has never been found
effectual. It has rarely been attempted to be em-
ployed, but against the weaker members; and in
most instances attempts to coerce the refractory and
disobedient have been the signals of bloody wars,
in which one half of the confederacy has displayed
its banners against the other half.

The result of these observations to an intelligent
mind must be clearly this, that if it be possible at
any rate to construct a federal government capable
of regulating the common concerns and preserving
the general tranquillity, it must be founded, as to
the objects committed to its care, upon the reverse
of the principle contended for by the opponents of
the proposed Constitution. It must carry its agency
to the persons of the citizens. It must stand in
need of no intermediate legislations ; but must itself
be empowered to employ the arm of the ordinary
magistrate to execute its own resolutions. The
majesty of the national authority must be mani-
fested through the medium of the courts of justice.
The government of the Union, like that of each
State, must be able to address itself immediately to

126 Alexander Hamilton

the hopes and fears of individuals; and to attract
to its support those passions which have the strong-
est influence upon the human heart. It must, in
short, possess all the means, and have a right to
resort to all the methods, of executing the powers
with which it is intrusted, that are possessed and
exercised by the governments of the particular
States.

To this reasoning it may perhaps be objected, that
if any State should be disaffected to the authority
of the Union, it could at any time obstruct the exe-
cution of its laws, and bring the matter to the same
issue of force, with the necessity of which the oppo-
site scheme is reproached.

The plausibility of this objection will vanish the
moment we advert to the essential difference be-
tween a mere non-compliance and a direct and
active resistance. If the interposition of the
State legislatures be necessary to give effect to a
measure of the Union, they have only not to act,
or to act evasively, and the measure is defeated.
This neglect of duty may be disguised under affected
but unsubstantial provisions, so as not to appear,
and of course not to excite any alarm in the people
for the safety of the Constitution. The State lead-
ers may even make a merit of their surreptitious
invasions of it on the ground of some temporary
convenience, exemption, or advantage.

But if the execution of the laws of the national
government should not require the intervention of
the State legislatures, if they were to pass into
immediate operation upon the citizens themselves,

The Federalist 127

the particular governments could not interrupt
their progress without an open and violent exertion
of an unconstitutional power. No omissions nor
evasions would answer the end. They would be
obliged to act, and in such a manner as would leave
no doubt that they had encroached on the national
rights. An experiment of this nature would always
be hazardous in the face of a constitution in any
degree competent to its own defence, and of a people
enlightened enough to distinguish between a legal
exercise and an illegal usurpation of authority. The
success of it would require not merely a factious
majority in the legislature, but the concurrence of
the courts of justice and of the body of the people.
If the judges were not embarked in a conspiracy
with the legislature, they would pronounce the
resolutions of such a majority to be contrary to the
supreme law of the land, unconstitutional, and void.
If the people were not tainted with the spirit of their
State representatives, they, as the natural guardians
of the Constitution, would throw their weight into
the national scale and give it a decided preponder-
ancy in the contest. Attempts of this kind would
not often be made with levity or rashness, because
they could seldom be made without danger to the
authors, unless in cases of a tyrannical exercise of
the federal authority.

If opposition to the national government should
arise from the disorderly conduct of refractory or
seditious individuals, it could be overcome by the
same means which are daily employed against the
same evil under the State governments. The magis-

128 Alexander Hamilton

tracy, being equally the ministers of the law of the
land, from whatever source it might emanate, would
doubtless be as ready to guard the national as the
local regulations from the inroads of private licen-
tiousness. As to those partial commotions and in-
surrections, which sometimes disquiet society, from
the intrigues of an inconsiderable faction, or from
sudden or occasional ill-humors that do not infect
the great body of the community, the general gov-
ernment could command more extensive resources
for the suppression of disturbances of that kind
than would be in the power of any single member.
And as to those mortal feuds which, in certain con-
junctures, spread a conflagration through a whole
nation, or through a very large proportion of it,
proceeding either from weighty causes of discontent
given by the government or from the contagion of
some violent popular paroxysm, they do not fall
within any ordinary rules of calculation. When
they happen, they commonly amount to revolutions
and dismemberments of empire. No form of govern-
ment can always either avoid or control them. It
is in vain to hope to guard against events too mighty
for human foresight or precaution, and it would be
idle to object to a government because it could not
perform impossibilities.

Publius.

The Federalist 129

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. XVII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

An objection, of a nature different from that
which has been stated and answered, in my last
address, may perhaps be likewise urged against the
principle of legislation for the individual citizens of
America. It may be said that it would tend to
render the government of the Union too powerful,
and to enable it to absorb those residuary authori-
ties, which it might be judged proper to leave with
the States for local purposes. Allowing the utmost
latitude to the love of power which any reasonable
man can require, I confess I am at a loss to discover
what temptation the persons intrusted with the ad-
ministration of the general government could ever
feel to divest the States of the authorities of that
description. The regulation of the mere domestic
police of a State appears to me to hold out slender
allurements to ambition. Commerce, finance, ne-
gotiation, and war seem to comprehend all the
objects which have charms for minds governed by
that passion; and all the powers necessary to those
objects ought, in the first instance, to be lodged
in the national depository. The administration of
private justice between the citizens of the same
State, the supervision of agriculture and of other
concerns of a similar nature, all those things, in
short, which are proper to be provided for by local
legislation, can never be desirable cares of a general

VOL. XI. — 9.

130 Alexander Hamilton

jurisdiction. It is therefore improbable that there
should exist a disposition in the federal councils to
usurp the powers with which they are connected;
because the attempt to exercise those powers would
be as troublesome as it would be nugatory ; and the
possession of them, for that reason, would contribute
nothing to the dignity, to the importance, or to the
splendor of the national government.

But let it be admitted, for argument's sake, that
mere wantonness and lust of domination would be
sufficient to beget that disposition; still it may be
safely affirmed, that the sense of the constituent body
of the national representatives, or, in other words,
the people of the several States, would control the
indulgence of so extravagant an appetite. It will
always be far more easy for the State governments
to encroach upon the national authorities, than for
the national government to encroach upon the State
authorities. The proof of this proposition turns
upon the greater degree of influence which the State
governments, if they administer their affairs with
uprightness and prudence, will generally possess
over the people; a circumstance which at the same
time teaches us that there is an inherent and in-
trinsic weakness in all federal constitutions; and
that too much pains cannot be taken in their or-
ganization, to give them all the force which is com-
patible with the principles of liberty.

The superiority of influence in favor of the par-
ticular governments would result partly from the
diffusive construction of the national government,
but chiefly from the nature of the objects to which

The Federalist 131

the attention of the State administrations would be
directed.

It is a known fact in human nature, that its affec-
tions are commonly weak in proportion to the dis-
tance or diffusiveness of the object. Upon the
same principle that a man is more attached to his
family than to his neighborhood, to his neighbor-
hood than to the community at large, the people of
each State would be apt to feel a stronger bias
towards their local governments than towards the
government of the Union; unless the force of that
principle should be destroyed by a much better ad-
ministration of the latter.

This strong propensity of the human heart would
find powerful auxiliaries in the objects of State
regulation.

The variety of more minute interests, which will
necessarily fall under the superintendence of the
local administrations, and which will form so many
rivulets of influence, running through every part of
the society, cannot be particularized, without in-
volving a detail too tedious and uninteresting to
compensate for the instruction it might afford.

There is one transcendent advantage belonging
to the province of the State governments, which
alone suffices to place the matter in a clear and
satisfactory light, — I mean the ordinary adminis-
tration of criminal and civil justice. This, of all
others, is the most powerful, most universal, and
most attractive source of popular obedience and
attachment. It is that which, being the immediate
and visible guardian of life and property, having its

132 Alexander Hamilton

benefits and its terrors in constant activity before
the public eye, regulating all those personal interests
and familiar concerns to which the sensibility of in-
dividuals is more immediately awake, contributes,
more than any other circumstance, to impressing
upon the minds of the people, affection, esteem, and
reverence towards the government. This great
cement of society, which will diffuse itself almost
wholly through the channels of the particular gov-
ernments, independent of all other causes of influ-
ence, would insure them so decided an empire over
their respective citizens as to render them at all
times a complete counterpoise, and, not unfre-
quently, dangerous rivals to the power of the Union.

The operations of the national government, on the
other hand, falling less immediately under the ob-
servation of the mass of the citizens, the benefits
derived from it will chiefly be perceived and at-
tended to by speculative men. Relating to more
general interests, they will be less apt to come home
to the feelings of the people; and, in proportion,
less likely to inspire an habitual sense of obligation,
and an active sentiment of attachment.

The reasoning on this head has been abundantly
exemplified by the experience of all federal constitu-
tions with which we are acquainted, and of all others
which have borne the least analogy to them.

Though the ancient feudal systems were not,
strictly speaking, confederacies, yet they partook of
the nature of that species of association. There was
a common head, chieftain, or sovereign, whose au-
thority extended over the whole nation ; and a num-

The Federalist 133

ber of subordinate vassals, or feudatories, who had
large portions of land allotted to them, and numer-
ous trains of inferior vassals or retainers, who occu-
pied and cultivated that land upon the tenure of
fealty or obedience to the persons of whom they
held it. Each principal vassal was a kind of sover-
eign within his particular demesnes. The conse-
quences of this situation were a continual opposition
to the authority of the sovereign, and frequent wars
between the great barons or chief feudatories them-
selves. The power of the head of the nation was
commonly too weak, either to preserve the public
peace, or to protect the people against the oppres-
sions of their immediate lords. This period of Euro-
pean affairs is emphatically styled by historians, the
times of feudal anarchy.

When the sovereign happened to be a man of
vigorous and warlike temper and of superior abilities,
he would acquire a personal weight and influence,
which answered, for the time, the purposes of a more
regular authority. But in general, the power of the
barons triumphed over that of the prince; and in
many instances his dominion was entirely thrown
off, and the great fiefs were erected into independent
principalities or States. In those instances in which
the monarch finally prevailed over his vassals, his
success was chiefly owing to the tyranny of those
vassals over their dependents. The barons, or
nobles, equally the enemies of the sovereign and the
oppressors of the common people, were dreaded and
detested by both; till mutual danger and mutual
interest effected a union between them fatal to the

134 Alexander Hamilton

power of the aristocracy. Had the nobles, by a
conduct of clemency and justice, preserved the
fidelity and devotion of their retainers and followers,
the contests between them and the prince must
almost always have ended in their favor, and in the
abridgment or subversion of the royal authority.

This is not an assertion founded merely in specu-
lation or conjecture. Among other illustrations of
its truth which might be cited, Scotland will furnish
a cogent example. The spirit of clanship which
was, at an early day, introduced into that kingdom,
uniting the nobles and their dependents by ties
equivalent to those of kindred, rendered the aris-
tocracy a constant overmatch for the power of the
monarch, till the incorporation with England sub-
dued its fierce and ungovernable spirit, and reduced
it within those rules of subordination which a more
rational and more energetic system of civil polity
had previously established in the latter kingdom.

The separate governments in a confederacy may
aptly be compared with the feudal baronies; with
this advantage in their favor, that from the reasons
already explained, they will generally possess the
confidence and good- will of the people, and with so
important a support, will be able effectually to op-
pose all encroachments of the national government.
It will be well if they are not able to counteract its
legitimate and necessary authority. The points of
similitude consist in the rivalship of power, applic-
able to both, and in the concentration of large
portions of the strength of the community into par-
ticular deposits, in one case at the disposal of indi-

The Federalist 135

viduals, in the other case at the disposal of political
bodies.

A concise review of the events that have attended
confederate governments will further illustrate this
important doctrine; an inattention to which has
been the great source of our political mistakes, and
has given our jealousy a direction to the wrong side.
This review shall form the subject of some ensuing
papers.

Publius.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. XVIII

(HAMILTON AND MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Among the confederacies of antiquity, the most
considerable was that of the Grecian republics, asso-
ciated under the Amphictyonic council. From the
best accounts transmitted of this celebrated institu-
tion, it bore a very instructive analogy to the present
Confederation of the American States.

The members retained the character of inde-
pendent and sovereign states, and had equal votes in
the federal council. This council had a general au-
thority to propose and resolve whatever it judged
necessary for the common welfare of Greece; to de-
clare and carry on war ; to decide, in the last resort,
all controversies between the members; to fine the
aggressing party; to employ the whole force of the
confederacy against the disobedient; to admit new

136 Alexander Hamilton

members. The Amphictyons were the guardians of
religion, and of the immense riches belonging to the
temple of Delphos, where they had the right of juris-
diction in controversies between the inhabitants and
those who came to consult the oracle. As a further
provision for the efficacy of the federal powers, they
took an oath mutually to defend and protect the
united cities, to punish the violators of this oath, and
to inflict vengeance on sacrilegious despoilers of the
temple.

In theory, and upon paper, this apparatus of
powers seems amply sufficient for all general pur-
poses. In several material instances, they exceed
the powers enumerated in the articles of confedera-
tion. The Amphictyons had in their hands the
superstition of the times, one of the principal en-
gines by which government was then maintained;
they had a declared authority to use coercion against
refractory cities, and were bound by oath to exert
this authority on the necessary occasions.

Very different, nevertheless, was the experiment
from the theory. The powers, like those of the
present Congress, were administered by deputies
appointed wholly by the cities in their political
capacities; and exercised over them in the same
capacities. Hence the weakness, the disorders, and
finally the destruction of the confederacy. The
more powerful members, instead of being kept in awe
and subordination, tyrannized successively over all
the rest. Athens, as we learn from Demosthenes,
was the arbiter of Greece seventy-three years. The
Lacedaemonians next governed it twenty-nine years ;

The Federalist 137

at a subsequent period, after the battle of Leuctra,
the Thebans had their turn of domination.

It happened but too often, according to Plutarch,
that the deputies of the strongest cities awed and
corrupted those of the weaker; and that judgment
went in favor of the most powerful party.

Even in the midst of defensive and dangerous
wars with Persia and Macedon, the members never
acted in concert, and were, more or fewer of them,
eternally the dupes or the hirelings of the common
enemy. The intervals of foreign war were filled up
by domestic vicissitudes, convulsions, and carnage.

After the conclusion of the war with Xerxes, it
appears that the Lacedaemonians required that a
number of the cities should be turned out of the
confederacy for the unfaithful part they had acted.
The Athenians, finding that the Lacedaemonians
would lose fewer partisans by such a measure than
themselves, and would become masters of the public
deliberations, vigorously opposed and defeated the
attempt. This piece of history proves at once the
inefficiency of the union, the ambition and jealousy
of its most powerful members, and the dependent
and degraded condition of the rest. The smaller
members, though entitled by the theory of their
system to revolve in equal pride and majesty around
the common centre, had become, in fact, satellites
of the orbs of primary magnitude.

Had the Greeks, says the Abbe Milot, been as
wise as they were courageous, they would have been
admonished by experience of the necessity of a
closer union, and would have availed themselves of

138 Alexander Hamilton

the peace which followed their success against the
Persian arms, to establish such a reformation. In-
stead of this obvious policy, Athens and Sparta, in-
flated with the victories and the glory they had
acquired, became first rivals and then enemies; and
did each other infinitely more mischief than they
had suffered from Xerxes. Their mutual jealousies,
fears, hatreds, and injuries ended in the celebrated
Peloponnesian war; which itself ended in the ruin
and slavery of the Athenians who had begun it.

As a weak government, when not at war, is ever
agitated by internal dissensions, so these never fail
to bring on fresh calamities from abroad. The
Phocians having ploughed up some consecrated
ground belonging to the temple of Apollo, the
Amphictyonic council, according to the supersti-
tion of the age, imposed a fine on the sacrilegious
offenders. The Phocians, being abetted by Athens
and Sparta, refused to submit to the decree. The
Thebans, with others of the cities, undertook to
maintain the authority of the Amphictyons, and to
avenge the violated god. The latter, being the
weaker party, invited the assistance of Philip of
Macedon, who had secretly fostered the contest.
Philip gladly seized the opportunity of executing the
designs he had long planned against the liberties
of Greece. By his intrigues and bribes he won
over to his interests the popular leaders of several
cities; by their influence and votes, gained ad-
mission into the Amphictyonic council; and by his
arts and his arms, made himself master of the con-
federacy.

The Federalist 139

Such were the consequences of the fallacious prin-
ciple on which this interesting establishment was
founded. Had Greece, says a judicious observer on
her fate, been united by a stricter confederation,
and persevered in her union, she would never have
worn the chains of Macedon ; and might have proved
a barrier to the vast projects of Rome.

The Achaean league, as it is called, was another
society of Grecian republics, which supplies us with
valuable instruction.

The Union here was far more intimate, and its
organization much wiser, than in the preceding in-
stance. It will accordingly appear, that though not
exempt from a similar catastrophe, it by no means
equally deserved it.

The cities composing this league retained their
municipal jurisdiction, appointed their own officers,
and enjoyed a perfect equality. The senate, in
which they were represented, had the sole and ex-
clusive right of peace and war; of sending and
receiving ambassadors; of entering into treaties
and alliances; of appointing a chief magistrate or
praetor, as he was called, who commanded their
armies, and who, with the advice and consent of ten
of the senators, not only administered the govern-
ment in the recess of the senate, but had a great
share in its deliberations, when assembled. Ac-
cording to the primitive constitution, there were two
praetors associated in the administration; but on
trial a single one was preferred.

It appears that the cities had all the same laws
and customs, the same weights and measures, and

H° Alexander Hamilton

the same money. But how far this effect proceeded
from the authority of the federal council is left in
uncertainty. It is said only that the cities were in
a manner compelled to receive the same laws and
usages. When Lacedaemon was brought into the
league by Philopcemen, it was attended with an
abolition of the institutions and laws of Lycurgus,
and an adoption of those of the Achasans. The
Amphictyonic confederacy, of which she had been
a member, left her in the full exercise of her govern-
ment and her legislation. This circumstance alone
proves a very material difference in the genius of the
two systems.

It is much to be regretted that such imperfect
monuments remain of this curious political fabric.
Could its interior structure and regular operation be
ascertained, it is probable that more light would be
thrown by it on the science of federal government,
than by any of the like experiments with which we
are acquainted.

One important fact seems to be witnessed by all
the historians who take notice of Achaean affairs.
It is, that as well after the renovation of the league
by Aratus, as before its dissolution by the arts of
Macedon, there was infinitely more of moderation
and justice in the administration of its government,
and less of violence and sedition in the people, than
were to be found in any of the cities exercising
singly all the prerogatives of sovereignty. The Abbe
Mably, in his observations on Greece, says that the
popular government, which was so tempestuous else-
where, caused no disorders in the members of the

The Federalist 141

Achaean republic, because it was there tempered by the
general authority and laws of the confederacy.

We are not to conclude too hastily, however, that
faction did not, in a certain degree, agitate the par-
ticular cities; much less that a due subordination
and harmony reigned in the general system. The
contrary is sufficiently displayed in the vicissitudes
and fate of the republic.

Whilst the Amphictyonic confederacy remained,
that of the Achaeans, which comprehended the less
important cities only, made little figure on the
theatre of Greece. When the former became a
victim to Macedon, the latter was spared by the
policy of Philip and Alexander. Under the succes-
sors of these princes, however, a different policy
prevailed. The arts of division were practised
among the Achaeans. Each city was seduced into a
separate interest; the union was dissolved. Some
of the cities fell under the tyranny of Macedonian
garrisons; others under that of usurpers springing
out of their own confusions. Shame and oppression
erelong awakened their love of liberty. A few cities
reunited. Their example was followed by others,
as opportunities were found of cutting off their
tyrants. The league soon embraced almost the
whole Peloponnesus. Macedon saw its progress;
but was hindered by internal dissensions from stop-
ping it. All Greece caught the enthusiasm and
seemed ready to unite in one confederacy, when the
jealousy and envy in Sparta and Athens, of the
rising glory of the Achaeans, threw a fatal damp on
the enterprise. The dread of the Macedonian power

142 Alexander Hamilton

induced the league to court the alliance of the kings
of Egypt and Syria, who, as successors of Alexander,
were rivals of the king of Macedon. This policy was
defeated by Cleomenes, king of Sparta, who was led
by his ambition to make an unprovoked attack on
his neighbors, the Achaeans, and who, as an enemy
to Macedon, had interest enough with the Egyptian
and Syrian princes to effect a breach of their en-
gagements with the league. The Achaeans were now
reduced to the dilemma of submitting to Cleomenes,
or of supplicating the aid of Macedon, its former op-
pressor. The latter expedient was adopted. The
contests of the Greeks always afforded a pleasing
opportunity to that powerful neighbor of inter-
meddling in their affairs. A Macedonian army
quickly appeared. Cleomenes was vanquished. The
Achaeans soon experienced, as often happens, that
a victorious and powerful ally is but another name
for a master. All that their most abject compliances
could obtain from him was a toleration of the exer-
cise of their laws. Philip, who was now on the
throne of Macedon, soon provoked by his tyrannies,
fresh combinations among the Greeks. The Achaeans,
though weakened by internal dissensions and by the
revolt of Messene, one of its members, being joined
by the ^Etolians and Athenians, erected the stand-
ard of opposition. Finding themselves, though thus
supported, unequal to the undertaking, they once
more had recourse to the dangerous expedient of in-
troducing the succor of foreign arms. The Romans,
to whom the invitation was made, eagerly embraced
it. Philip was conquered; Macedon subdued. A

The Federalist 143

new crisis ensued to the league. Dissensions broke
out among its members. These the Romans fos-
tered. Callicrates and other popular leaders became
mercenary instruments for inveigling their country-
men. The more effectually to nourish discord and
disorder the Romans had, to the astonishment of
those who confided in their sincerity, already pro-
claimed universal liberty l throughout Greece. With
the same insidious views, they now seduced the
members from the league, by representing to their
pride the violation it committed on their sover-
eignty. By these arts this union, the last hope of
Greece, the last hope of ancient liberty, was torn
into pieces; and such imbecility and distraction in-
troduced, that the arms of Rome found little diffi-
culty in completing the ruin which their arts had
commenced. The Achseans were cut to pieces, and
Achaia loaded with chains, under which it is groan-
ing at this hour.

I have thought it not superfluous to give the out-
lines of this important portion of history ; both be-
cause it teaches more than one lesson, and because,
as a supplement to the outlines of the Achaean con-
stitution, it emphatically illustrates the tendency of
federal bodies ra.ther to anarchy among the members,
than to tyranny in the head.

Publius.

1 This was but another name more specious for the independence
of the members on the federal head. — Publius.

144 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. XIX

(HAMILTON AND MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The examples of ancient confederacies, cited in my
last paper, have not exhausted the source of experi-
mental instruction on this subject. There are exist-
ing institutions, founded on a similar principle, which
merit particular consideration. The first which pre-
sents itself is the Germanic body.

In the early ages of Christianity, Germany was
occupied by seven distinct nations, who had no
common chief. The Franks, one of the number,
having conquered the Gauls, established the king-
dom which has taken its name from them. In the
ninth century Charlemagne, its warlike monarch,
carried his victorious arms in every direction; and
Germany became a part of his vast dominions. On
the dismemberment, which took place under his
sons, this part was erected into a separate and inde-
pendent empire. Charlemagne and his immediate
descendants possessed the reality, as well as the en-
signs and dignity of imperial power. But the prin-
cipal vassals, whose fiefs had become hereditary, and
who composed the national diets which Charle-
magne had not abolished, gradually threw off the
yoke and advanced to sovereign jurisdiction and in-
dependence. The force of imperial sovereignty was
insufficient to restrain such powerful dependants;
or to preserve the unity and tranquillity of the em-
pire. The most furious private wars, accompanied

The Federalist 145

with every species of calamity, were carried on be-
tween the different princes and states. The im-
perial authority, unable to maintain the public
order, declined by degrees till it was almost extinct
in the anarchy, which agitated the long interval be-
tween the death of the last emperor of the Suabian,
and the accession of the first emperor of the Aus-
trian lines. In the eleventh century the emperors '
enjoyed full sovereignty: In the fifteenth they had
little more than the symbols and decorations of
power.

Out of this feudal system, which has itself many
of the important features of a confederacy, has grown
the federal system which constitutes the Germanic
empire. Its powers are vested in a diet representing
the component members of the confederacy; in the
emperor, who is the executive magistrate, with a
negative on the decrees of the diet; and in the im-
perial chamber and the aulic council, two judiciary
tribunals having supreme jurisdiction in controver-
sies which concern the empire, or which happen
among its members.

The diet possesses the general power of legislating
for the empire ; of making war and peace ; contract-
ing alliances ; assessing quotas of troops and money ;
constructing f ortressess ; regulating coin ; admitting .
new members; and subjecting disobedient members
to the ban of the empire, by which the party is de-
graded from his sovereign rights and his possessions
forfeited. The members of the confederacy are ex-
pressly restricted from entering into compacts preju-
dicial to the empire ; from imposing tolls and duties

VOL. XI.— IO.

146 Alexander Hamilton

on their mutual intercourse, without the consent of
the emperor and diet; from altering the value of
money; from doing injustice to one another; or
from affording assistance or retreat to disturbers of
the public peace. And the ban is denounced against
such as shall violate any of these restrictions. The
members of the diet, as such, are subject in all cases
to be judged by the emperor and diet, and in their
private capacities by the aulic council and imperial
chamber.

The prerogatives of the emperor are numerous.
The most important of them are : his exclusive right
to make propositions to the diet; to negative its
resolutions; to name ambassadors; to confer dig-
nities and titles ; to fill vacant electorates ; to found
universities ; to grant privileges not injurious to the
states of the empire; to receive and apply the pub-
lic revenues ; and generally to watch over the public
safety. In certain cases, the electors form a council
to him. In quality of emperor, he possesses no
territory within the empire, nor receives any revenue
for his support. But his revenue and dominions,
in other qualities, constitute him one of the most
powerful princes in Europe.

From such a parade of constitutional powers, in
the representatives and head of this confederacy, the
natural supposition would be, that it must form an
exception to the general character which belongs
to its kindred systems. Nothing would be further
from the reality. The fundamental principle on
which it rests, that the empire is a community of
sovereigns, that the diet is a representation of sov-

The Federalist 147

ereigns, and that the laws are addressed to sover-
eigns, renders the empire a nerveless body, incapable
of regulating its own members, insecure against ex-
ternal dangers, and agitated with unceasing fer-
mentations in its own bowels.

The history of Germany is a history of wars be-
tween the emperor and the princes and states; of
wars among the princes and states themselves; of
the licentiousness of the strong, and the oppression
of the weak; of foreign intrusions, and foreign in-
trigues; of requisitions of men and money disre-
garded, or partially complied with; of attempts to
enforce them, altogether abortive, or attended with
slaughter and desolation, involving the innocent
with the guilty; of general imbecility, confusion,
and misery.

In the sixteenth century, the emperor, with one
part of the empire on his side, was seen engaged
against the other princes and states. In one of the
conflicts, the emperor himself was put to flight, and
very near being made prisoner by the elector of
Saxony. The late king of Prussia was more than
once pitted against his imperial sovereign; and
commonly proved an overmatch for him. Con-
troversies and wrars among the members themselves
have been so common, that the German annals are
crowded with the bloody pages which describe them.
Previous to the peace of Westphalia, Germany was
desolated by a war of thirty years, in which the em-
peror, with one half of the empire, was on one side,
and Sweden, with the other half, on the opposite
side. Peace was at length negotiated, and dictated

148 Alexander Hamilton

by foreign powers; and the articles of it, to which
foreign powers are parties, made a fundamental part
of the Germanic constitution.

If the nation happens, on any emergency, to be
more united by the necessity of self-defence, its
situation is still deplorable. Military preparations
must be preceded by so many tedious discussions,
arising from the jealousies, pride, separate views,
and clashing pretensions of sovereign bodies, that
before the diet can settle the arrangements, the
enemy are in the field ; and before the federal troops
are ready to take it, are retiring into winter quarters.

The small body of national troops, which has been
judged necessary in time of peace, is defectively kept
up, badly paid, infected with local prejudices, and
supported by irregular and disproportionate con-
tributions to the treasury.

The impossibility of maintaining order and dis-
pensing justice among these sovereign subjects, pro-
duced the experiment of dividing the empire into
nine or ten circles or districts ; of giving them an in-
terior organization, and of charging them with the
military execution of the laws against delinquent
and contumacious members. This experiment has
only served to demonstrate more fully the radical
vice of the constitution. Each circle is the miniature
picture of the deformities of this political monster.
They either fail to execute their commissions, or
they do it with all the devastation and carnage of
civil war. Sometimes whole circles are defaulters;
and then they increase the mischief which they were
instituted to remedy.

The Federalist 149

We may form some judgment of this scheme of
military coercion from a sample given by Thuanus.
In Donawerth, a free and imperial city of the circle
of Suabia, the Abbe de St. Croix enjoyed certain
immunities which had been reserved to him. In the
exercise of these, on some public occasions, outrages
were committed on him by the people of the city.
The consequence was that the city was put under
the ban of the empire, and the Duke of Bavaria,
though director of another circle, obtained an ap-
pointment to enforce it. He soon appeared before
the city with a corps of ten thousand troops, and
finding it a fit occasion, as he had secretly intended
from the beginning, to revive an antiquated claim,
on the pretext that his ancestors had suffered the
place to be dismembered from his territory,1 he took
possession of it in his own name, disarmed, and pun-
ished the inhabitants, and reannexed the city to his
domains.

It may be asked, perhaps, what has so long kept
this disjointed machine from falling entirely to
pieces? The answer is obvious: The weakness of
most of the members, who are unwilling to expose
themselves to the mercy of foreign powers; the
weakness of most of the principal members, com-
pared with the formidable powers all around them;
the vast weight and influence which the emperor
derives from his separate and hereditary dominions ;
and the interest he feels in preserving a system with

1 Pfeffel, Nouvel AbrSg. Chronol. de VHist., etc., d'Allemagne, says
the pretext was to indemnify himself for the expense of the expedition.
— Publius.

i5° Alexander Hamilton

which his family pride is connected, and which con-
stitutes him the first prince in Europe ; — these causes
support a feeble and precarious Union; whilst the
repellent quality, incident to the nature of sover-
eignty, and which time continually strengthens,
prevents any reform whatever, founded on a proper
consolidation. Nor is it to be imagined, if this ob-
stacle could be surmounted, that the neighboring
powers would suffer a revolution to take place, which
would give to the empire the force and preeminence
to which it is entitled. Foreign nations have long
considered themselves as interested in the changes
made by events in this constitution; and have, on
various occasions, betrayed their policy of perpetu-
ating its anarchy and weakness.

If more direct examples were wanting, Poland, as
a government over local sovereigns, might not im-
properly be taken notice of. Nor could any proof
more striking be given of the calamities flowing from
such institutions. Equally unfit for self-govern-
ment and self-defence, it has long been at the mercy
of its powerful neighbors; who have lately had the
mercy to disburden it of one third of its people and
territories.

The connection among the Swiss cantons scarcely
amounts to a confederacy; though it is some times
cited as an instance of the stability of such institu-
tions.

They have no common treasury; no common
troops even in war; no common coin; no common
judicatory; nor any other common mark of sover-
eignty.

The Federalist 151

They are kept together by the peculiarity of their
topographical position; by their individual weak-
ness and insignificancy; by the fear of powerful
neighbors, to one of which they were formerly sub-
ject; by the few sources of contention among a
people of such simple and homogeneous manners;
by their joint interest in their dependent possessions ;
by the mutual aid they stand in need of, for sup-
pressing insurrections and rebellions, an aid ex-
pressly stipulated, and often required and afforded;
and by the necessity of some regular and permanent
provision for accommodating disputes among the
cantons. The provision is, that the parties at
variance shall each choose four judges out of the
neutral cantons, who, in case of disagreement,
choose an umpire. This tribunal, under an oath of
impartiality, pronounces definitive sentence, which all
the cantons are bound to enforce. The competency
of this regulation may be estimated by a clause in
their treaty of 1683, with Victor Amadeus of Savoy;
in which he obliges himself to interpose as mediator
in disputes between the cantons, and to employ force,
if necessary, against the contumacious party.

So far as the peculiarity of their case will admit of
comparison with that of the United States, it serves
to confirm the principle intended to be established.
Whatever efficacy the union may have had in ordi-
nary cases, it appears that the moment a cause of
difference sprang up, capable of trying its strength,
it failed. The controversies on the subject of re-
ligion, which in three instances have kindled violent
and bloody contests, may be said, in fact, to have

152 Alexander Hamilton

severed the league. The Protestant and Catholic
cantons have since had their separate diets, where
all the most important concerns are adjusted, and
which have left the general diet little other business
than to take care of the common bailages.

That separation had another consequence, which
merits attention. It produced opposite alliances
with foreign powers: of Berne, at the head of the
Protestant association, with the United Provinces;
and of Luzerne, at the head of the Catholic associa-
tion, with France.

Publius.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, December 11, 1787
THE FEDERALIST. No. XX

(HAMILTON AND MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The United Netherlands are a confederacy of re-
publics, or rather of aristocracies of a very remark-
able texture, yet confirming all the lessons derived
from those which we have already reviewed.

The union is composed of seven coequal and
sovereign states, and each state or province is a
composition of equal and independent cities. In all
important cases, not only the provinces but the cities
must be unanimous.

The sovereignty of the Union is represented by
the States-General, consisting usually of about fifty
deputies appointed by the provinces. They hold

The Federalist 153

their seats, some for life, some for six, three, and one
years ; from two provinces they continue in appoint-
ment during pleasure.

The States-General have authority to enter into
treaties and alliances; to make war and peace; to
raise armies and equip fleets; to ascertain quotas
and demand contributions. In all these cases, how-
ever, unanimity and the sanction of their constituents
are requisite. They have authority to appoint and
receive ambassadors; to execute treaties and alli-
ances already formed; to provide for the collection
of duties on imports and exports; to regulate the
mint, with a saving to the provincial rights; to
govern as sovereigns the dependent territories. The
provinces are restrained, unless with the general
consent, from entering into foreign treaties; from
establishing imposts injurious to others, or charging
their neighbors with higher duties than their own
subjects. A council of state, a chamber of accounts,
with five colleges of admiralty, aid and fortify the
federal administration.

The executive magistrate of the union is the
stadtholder, who is now an hereditary prince. His
principal weight and influence in the republic are
derived from this independent title; from his great
patrimonial estates; from his family connections
with some of the chief potentates of Europe; and,
more than all, perhaps, from his being stadtholder in
the several provinces, as well as for the union; in
which provincial quality he has the appointment of
town magistrates under certain regulations, exe-
cutes provincial decrees, presides when he pleases in

154 Alexander Hamilton

the provincial tribunals, and has throughout the
power of pardon.

As stadtholder of the union, he has, however.
considerable prerogatives.

In his political capacity he has authority to settle
disputes between the provinces, when other methods
fail; to assist at the deliberations of the States-
General, and at their particular conferences; to give
audiences to foreign ambassadors, and to keep agents
for his particular affairs at foreign courts.

In his military capacity he commands the federal
troops, provides for garrisons, and in general regu-
lates military affairs; disposes of all appointments,
from colonels to ensigns, and of the governments and
posts of fortified towns.

In his marii:e capacity he is admiral-general, and
superintends and directs every thing relative to
naval forces and other naval affairs ; presides in the
admiralties in person or by proxy; appoints lieu-
tenant-admirals and other officers; and establishes
councils of war, whose sentences are not executed
till he approves them.

His revenue, exclusive of his private income,
amounts to three hundred thousand florins. The
standing army which he commands consists of about
forty thousand men.

Such is the nature of the celebrated Belgic con-
federacy, as delineated on parchment. What are the
characters which practice has stamped upon it? Im-
becility in the government ; discord among the prov-
inces ; foreign influence and indignities : a precarious
existence in peace, and peculiar calamities from war.

The Federalist 155

It was long ago remarked by Grotius, that nothing
but the hatred of his countrymen to the house of
Austria kept them from being ruined by the vices of
their constitution.

The union of Utrecht, says another respectable
writer, reposes an authority in the States-General,
seemingly sufficient to secure harmony, but the
jealousy in each province renders the practice very
different from the theory.

The same instrument, says another, obliges each
province to levy certain contributions; but this
article never could, and probably never will, be exe-
cuted; because the inland provinces, who have little
commerce, cannot pay an equal quota.

In matters of contribution, it is the practice to
waive the articles of the constitution. The danger
of delay obliges the consenting provinces to furnish
their quotas, without waiting for the others; and
then vO obtain reimbursement from the others, by
deputations, which are frequent, or otherwise, as they
can. The great wealth and influence of the province
of Holland enable her to effect both these purposes.

It has more than once happened, that the de-
ficiencies had to be ultimately collected at the point
of the bayonet; a thing practicable, though dreadful,
in a confederacy where one of the members exceeds
in force all the rest, and where several of them are
too small to meditate resistance; but utterly im-
practicable in one composed of members, several of
which are equal to each other in strength and re-
sources, and equal singly to a vigorous and persever-
ing defence.

156 Alexander Hamilton

Foreign ministers, says Sir William Temple, who
was himself a foreign minister, elude matters taken
ad referendum, by tampering with the provinces and
cities. In 1726, the treaty of Hanover was delayed
by these means a whole year. Instances of a like
nature are numerous and notorious.

In critical emergencies, the States-General are
often compelled to overleap their constitutional
bounds. In 1688, they concluded a treaty of them-
selves at the risk of their heads. The treaty of
Westphalia, in 1648, by which their independence
was formally and finally recognized, was concluded
without the consent of Zealand. Even as recently
as the last treaty of peace with Great Britain, the
constitutional principle of unanimity was departed
from. A weak constitution must necessarily ter-
minate in dissolution, for want of proper powers, or
the usurpation of powers requisite for the public
safety. Whether the usurpation, when once begun,
will stop at the salutary point, or go forward to the
dangerous extreme, must depend on the contingencies
of the moment. Tyranny has perhaps oftener grown
out of the assumptions of power, called for, on pressing
exigencies, by a defective constitution, than out of the
full exercise of the largest constitutional authorities.

Notwithstanding the calamities produced by the
stadtholdership, it has been supposed that without
his influence in the individual provinces, the causes
of anarchy manifest in the confederacy would long
ago have dissolved it. " Under such a government, "
says the Abbe* Mably, " the Union could never have
subsisted, if the provinces had not a spring within

The Federalist 157

themselves, capable of quickening their tardiness,
and compelling them to the same way of thinking.
This spring is the stadtholder. ' ' It is remarked by
Sir William Temple, "that in the intermissions of
the stadtholdership, Holland, by her riches and her
authority, which drew the others into a sort of de-
pendence, supplied the place."

These are not the only circumstances which have
controlled the tendency to anarchy and dissolution.
The surrounding powers impose an absolute neces-
sity of union to a certain degree, at the same time
that they nourish by their intrigues the constitu-
tional vices which keep the republic in some degree
always at their mercy.

The true patriots have long bewailed the fatal
tendency of these vices, and have made no less than
four regular experiments by extraordinary assem-
blies, convened for the special purpose, to apply a
remedy. As many times has their laudable zeal
found it impossible to unite the public councils in re-
forming the known, the acknowledged, the fatal evils
of the existing constitution. Let us pause, my
fellow-citizens, for one moment, over this melan-
choly and monitory lesson of history; and with the
tear that drops for the calamities brought on man-
kind by their adverse opinions and selfish passions,
let our gratitude mingle an ejaculation to Heaven,
for the propitious concord which has distinguished
the consultations for our political happiness.

A design was also conceived of establishing a
general tax to be administered by the federal au-
thority. This also had its adversaries and failed.

158 Alexander Hamilton

This unhappy people seem to be now suffering
from popular convulsions, from dissensions among
the states, and from the actual invasion of foreign
arms, the crisis of their destiny. All nations have
their eyes fixed on the awful spectacle. The first
wish prompted by humanity is, that this severe
trial may issue in such a revolution of their govern-
ment as will establish their union, and render it the
parent of tranquillity, freedom, and happiness: The
next, that the asylum under which, we trust, the
enjoyment of these blessings will speedily be secured
in this country, may receive and console them for
the catastrophe of their own.

I make no apology for having dwelt so long on
the contemplation of these federal precedents. Ex-
perience is the oracle of truth; and where its re-
sponses are unequivocal, they ought to be conclusive
and sacred. The important truth, which it un-
equivocally pronounces in the present case, is that
a sovereignty over sovereigns, a government over
governments, a legislation for communities, as con-
tradistinguished from individuals, as it is a solecism
in theory, so in practice it is subversive of the order
and ends of civil polity, by substituting violence in
place of law, or the destructive coercion of the sword
in place of the mild and salutary coercion of the
magistracy.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 159

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Having in the three last numbers taken a sum-
mary review of the principal circumstances and
events which have depicted the genius and fate of
other confederate governments, I shall now proceed
in the enumeration of the most important of those
defects which have hitherto disappointed our hopes
from the system established among ourselves. To
form a safe and satisfactory judgment of the proper
remedy, it is absolutely necessary that we should be
well acquainted with the extent and malignity of
the disease.

The next most palpable defect of the subsisting
Confederation, is the total want of a sanction to its
laws. The United States, as now composed, have
no powers to exact obedience, or punish disobedience
to their resolutions, either by pecuniary mulcts, by a
suspension or divestiture of privileges, or by any
other constitutional mode. There is no express
delegation of authority to them to use force against
delinquent members; and if such a right should be
ascribed to the federal head, as resulting from the
nature of the social compact between the States, it
must be by inference and construction, in the face
of that part of the second article, by which it is de-
clared, "that each State shall retain every power,
jurisdiction, and right, not expressly delegated to the
United States in Congress assembled.' ' There is,

160 Alexander Hamilton

doubtless, a striking absurdity in supposing that a
right of this kind does not exist, but we are reduced
to the dilemma either of embracing that supposi-
tion, preposterous as it may seem, or of contravening
or explaining away a provision, which has been of
late a repeated theme of the eulogies of those who
oppose the new Constitution ; and the want of which,
in that plan, has been the subject of much plausible
animadversion, and severe criticism. If we are un-
willing to impair the force of this applauded provi-
sion, we shall be obliged to conclude, that the United
States afford the extraordinary spectacle of a gov-
ernment destitute even of the shadow of constitu-
tional power to enforce the execution of its own
laws. It will appear, from the specimens which
have been cited, that the American Confederacy,
in this particular, stands discriminated from every
other institution of a similar kind, and exhibits a
new and unexampled phenomenon in the political
world.

The want of a mutual guaranty of the State gov-
ernments is another capital imperfection in the fed-
eral plan. There is nothing of this kind declared in
the articles that compose it; and to imply a tacit
guaranty from considerations of utility, would be a
still more flagrant departure from the clause which
has been mentioned, than to imply a tacit power of
coercion from the like considerations. The want of
a guaranty, though it might in its consequences en-
danger the Union, does not so immediately attack
its existence as the want of a constitutional sanction
to its laws.

The Federalist 161

Without a guaranty the assistance to be derived
from the Union in repelling those domestic dangers
which may sometimes threaten the existence of the
State constitutions, must be renounced. Usurpa-
tion may rear its crest in each State, and trample
upon the liberties of the people, while the national
government could legally do nothing more than be-
hold its encroachments with indignation and regret.
A successful faction may erect a tyranny on the
ruins of order and law, while no succor could con-
stitutionally be afforded by the Union to the friends
and supporters of the government. The tempestu-
ous situation from which Massachusetts has scarcely
emerged, evinces that dangers of this kind are not
merely speculative. Who can determine what might
have been the issue of her late convulsions, if the
malcontents had been headed by a Caesar or by a
Cromwell? Who can predict what effect a despot-
ism, established in Massachusetts, would have upon
the liberties of New Hampshire or Rhode Island, of
Connecticut or New York?

The inordinate pride of State importance has
suggested to some minds an objection to the prin-
ciple of a guaranty in the federal government, as in-
volving an officious interference in the domestic
concerns of the members. A scruple of this kind
would deprive us of one of the principal advantages
to be expected from union, and can only flow from a
misapprehension of the nature of the provision it-
self. It could be no impediment to reforms of the
State constitutions by a majority of the people in a
legal and peaceable mode. This right would remain

VOL. XI— II.

1 62 Alexander Hamilton

undiminished. The guaranty could only operate
against changes to be effected by violence. Towards
the preventions of calamities of this kind, too many
checks cannot be provided. The peace of society
and the stability of government depend absolutely
on the efficacy of the precautions adopted on this
head. Where the whole power of the government
is in the hands of the people, there is the less pre-
tence for the use of violent remedies in partial or
occasional distempers of the State. The natural
cure for an ill-administration, in a popular or re-
presentative constitution, is a change of men. A
guaranty by the national authority would be as
much levelled against the usurpations of rulers as
against the ferments and outrages of faction and
sedition in the community.

The principle of regulating the contributions of
the States to the common treasury by quotas is an-
other fundamental error in the Confederation. Its
repugnancy to an adequate supply of the national
exigencies has been already pointed out, and has
sufficiently appeared from the trial which has been
made of it. I speak of it now solely with a view to
equality among the States. Those who have been
accustomed to contemplate the circumstances which
produce and constitute national wealth, must be
satisfied that there is no common standard or ba-
rometer by which the degrees of it can be ascertained.
Neither the value of lands, nor the numbers of the
people, which have been successively proposed as
the rule of State contributions, has any pretension
to being a just representative. If we compare the

The Federalist 163

wealth of the United Netherlands with that of Rus-
sia or Germany, or even of France, and if we at the
same time compare the total value of the lands and
the aggregate population of that contracted district
with the total value of the lands and the aggregate
population of the immense regions of either of the
three last-mentioned countries, we shall at once dis-
cover that there is no comparison between the pro-
portion of either of these two objects and that of the
relative wealth of those nations. If the like parallel
were to be run between several of the American
States, it would furnish a like result. Let Virginia
be contrasted with North Carolina, Pennsylvania
with Connecticut, or Maryland with New Jersey,
and we shall be convinced that the respective abili-
ties of those States, in relation to revenue, bear little
or no analogy to their comparative stock in lands
or to their comparative population. The position
may be equally illustrated by a similar process be-
tween the counties of the same State. No man who
is acquainted with the State of New York will doubt
that the active wealth of King's County bears a
much greater proportion to that of Montgomery
than it would appear to be if we should take either
the total value of the lands or the total number of
the people as a criterion!

The wealth of nations depends upon an infinite
variety of causes. Situation, soil, climate, the na-
ture of the productions, the nature of the govern-
ment, the genius of the citizens, the degree of
information they possess, the state of commerce, of
arts, of industry, — these circumstances and many

1 64 Alexander Hamilton

more, too complex, minute, or adventitious to ad-
mit of a particular specification, occasion differ-
ences hardly conceivable in the relative opulence
and riches of different countries. The consequence
clearly is that there can be no common measure of
national wealth, and, of course, no general or sta-
tionary rule by which the ability of a state to pay
taxes can be determined. The attempt, therefore,
to regulate the contributions of the members of
a confederacy by any such rule, cannot fail to
be productive of glaring inequality and extreme
oppression.

This inequality would of itself be sufficient in
America to work the eventual destruction of the
Union, if any mode of enforcing a compliance with
its requisitions could be devised. The suffering
States would not long consent to remain associated
upon a principle which distributes the public burdens
with so unequal a hand, and which was calculated
to impoverish and oppress the citizens of some States,
while those of others would scarcely be conscious of
the small proportion of the weight they were re-
quired to sustain. This, however, is an evil insep-
arable from the principle of quotas and requisitions.

There is no method of steering clear of this in-
convenience, but by authorizing the national gov-
ernment to raise its own revenues in its own way.
Imposts, excises, and, in general, all duties upon
articles of consumption, may be compared to a fluid,
which will, in time, find its level with the means of
paying them. The amount to be contributed by each
citizen will in a degree be at his own option, and can

The Federalist 165

be regulated by an attention to his resources. The
rich may be extravagant, the poor can be frugal;
and private oppression may always be avoided by
a judicious selection of objects proper for such im-
positions. If inequalities should arise in some States
from duties on particular objects, these will, in all
probability, be counterbalanced by proportional in-
equalities in other States, from the duties on other
objects. In the course of time and things, an
equilibrium, as far as it is attainable in so com-
plicated a subject, will be established everywhere.
Or, if inequalities should still exist, they would
neither be so great in their degree, so uniform in
their operation, nor so odious in their appearance, as
those which would necessarily spring from quotas,
upon any scale that can possibly be devised.

It is a signal advantage of taxes on articles of con-
sumption, that they contain in their own nature a
security against excess. They prescribe their own
limit; which cannot be exceeded without defeating
the end proposed, — that is, an extension of the re-
venue. When applied to this object, the saying is as
just as it is witty, that, " in political arithmetic, two
and two do not always make four." If duties are
too high, they lessen the consumption; the collec-
tion is eluded; and the product to the treasury is
not so great as when they are confined within proper
and moderate bounds. This forms a complete bar-
rier against any material oppression of the citizens
by taxes of this class, and is itself a natural limita-
tion of the power of imposing them.

Impositions of this kind usually fall under the

1 66 Alexander Hamilton

denomination of indirect taxes, and must for a long
time constitute trie chief part of the revenue raised
in this country. Those of the direct kind, which
principally relate to land and buildings, may admit
of a rule of apportionment. Either the value of land,
or the number of the people, may serve as a standard.
The state of agriculture and the populousness of a
country have been considered as nearly connected
with each other. And, as a rule, for the purpose
intended, numbers, in the view of simplicity and
certainty, are entitled to a preference. In every
country it is a herculean task to obtain a valuation
of the land; in a country imperfectly settled and
progressive in improvement, the difficulties are in-
creased almost to impracticability. The expense
of an accurate valuation is, in all situations, a for-
midable objection. In a branch of taxation where
no limits to the discretion of the government are to
be found in the nature of things, the establishment
of a fixed rule, not incompatible with the end, may
be attended with fewer inconveniences than to leave
that discretion altogether at large.

Publius.

From the New York Packet, Friday, December 14, 1787
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

In addition to the defects already enumerated in
the existing federal system, there are others of not

The Federalist 167

less importance, which concur in rendering it alto-
gether unfit for the administration of the affairs of
the Union.

The want of a power to regulate commerce is by
all parties allowed to be of the number. The utility
of such a power has been anticipated under the first
head of our inquiries; and for this reason, as well as
from the universal conviction entertained upon the
subject, little need be added in this place. It is in-
deed evident, on the most superficial view, that
there is no object, either as it respects the interests
of trade or finance, that more strongly demands a
federal superintendence. The want of it has already
operated as a bar to the formation of beneficial
treaties with foreign powers, and has given occasions
of dissatisfaction between the States. No nation
acquainted with the nature of our political associa-
tion would be unwise enough to enter into stipu-
lations with the United States, by which they
conceded privileges of any importance to them, while
they were apprised that the engagements on the part
of the Union might at any moment be violated by
its members, and while they found from experience
that they might enjoy every advantage they de-
sired in our markets, without granting us any return
but such as their momentary convenience might
suggest. It is not, therefore, to be wondered at that
Mr. Jenkinson, in ushering into the House of Com-
mons a bill for regulating the temporary intercourse
between the two countries, should preface its intro-
duction by a declaration that similar provisions in
former bills had been found to answer every purpose

1 68 Alexander Hamilton

to the commerce of Great Britain, and that it would
be prudent to persist in the plan until it should ap-
pear whether the American government was likely
or not to acquire greater consistency.1

Several States have endeavored, by separate pro-
hibitions, restrictions, and exclusions, to influence
the conduct of that kingdom in this particular, but
the want of concert, arising from the want of a gen-
eral authority and from clashing and dissimilar
views in the State, has hitherto frustrated every
experiment of the kind, and will continue to do so
as long as the same obstacles to a uniformity of
measures continue to exist.

The interfering and unneighborly regulations of
some States, contrary to the true spirit of the Union,
have, in different instances, given just cause of um-
brage and complaint to others, and it is to be feared
that examples of this nature, if not restrained by a
national control, would be multiplied and extended
till they became not less serious sources of animosity
and discord than injurious impediments to the in-
tercourse between the different parts of the Con-
federacy. " The commerce of the German empire 2
is in continual trammels from the multiplicity of the
duties which the several princes and states exact
upon the merchandises passing through their terri-
tories, by means of which the fine streams and
navigable rivers with which Germany is so happily
watered are rendered almost useless." Though the

1 This, as nearly as I can recollect, was the sense of his speech on
introducing the last bill. — Publius.

2 Encyclopedia, article "Empire." — Publius.

The Federalist 169

genius of the people of this country might never per-
mit this description to be strictly applicable to us,
yet we may reasonably expect, from the gradual
conflicts of State regulations, that the citizens of
each would at length come to be considered and
treated by the others in no better light than that of
foreigners and aliens.

The power of raising armies, by the most obvious
construction of the articles of the Confederation, is
merely a power of making requisitions upon the
States for quotas of men. This practice, in the
course of the late war, was found replete with ob-
structions to a vigorous and to an economical system
of defence. It gave birth to a competition between
the States which created a kind of auction for men.
In order to furnish the quotas required of them,
they outbid each other till bounties grew to an enor-
mous and insupportable size. The hope of a still
further increase afforded an inducement to those
who were disposed to serve to procrastinate their
enlistment, and disinclined them from engaging for
any considerable periods. Hence, slow and scanty
levies of men, in the most critical emergencies of
our affairs ; short enlistments at an unparalleled ex-
pense; continual fluctuations in the troops, ruinous
to their discipline and subjecting the public safety
frequently to the perilous crisis of a disbanded army.
Hence, also, those oppressive expedients for raising
men which were upon several occasions practised,
and which nothing but the enthusiasm of liberty
would have induced the people to endure.

This method of raising troops is not more un-

170 Alexander Hamilton

friendly to economy and vigor than it is to an equal
distribution of the burden. The States near the
seat of war, influenced by motives of self-preserva-
tion, made efforts to furnish their quotas, which even
exceeded their abilities; while those at a distance
from danger were, for the most part, as remiss as the
others were diligent, in their exertions. The immedi-
ate pressure of this inequality was not in this case, as
in that of the contributions of money, alleviated by
the hope of a final liquidation. The States which did
not pay their proportions of money might at least
be charged with their deficiencies; but no account
could be formed of the deficiencies in the supplies of
men. We shall not, however, see much reason to re-
gret the want of this hope, when we consider how
little prospect there is, that the most delinquent
States will ever be able to make compensation for
their pecuniary failures. The system of quotas and
requisitions, whether it be applied to men or money,
is, in every view, a system of imbecility in the Union,
and of inequality and injustice among the members.
The right of equal suffrage among the States is
another exceptionable part of the Confederation.
Every idea of proportion and every rule of fair re-
presentation conspires to condemn a principle, which
gives to Rhode Island an equal weight in the scale of
power with Massachusetts, or Connecticut, or New
York; and to Delaware an equal voice in the na-
tional deliberations with Pennsylvania, or Virginia,
or North Carolina. Its operation contradicts the
fundamental maxim of republican government,
which requires that the sense of the majority should

The Federalist 171

prevail. Sophistry may reply, that sovereigns are
equal, and that a majority of the votes of the States
will be a majority of confederated America. But
this kind of logical legerdemain will never counter-
act the plain suggestions of justice and common-
sense. It may happen that this majority of States
is a small minority of the people of America * ; and
two thirds of the people of America could not long
be persuaded, upon the credit of artificial distinc-
tions and syllogistic subtleties, to submit their in-
terests to the management and disposal of one third.
The larger States would after a while revolt from the
idea of receiving the law from the smaller. To
acquiesce in such a privation of their due import-
ance in the political scale, would be not merely to
be insensible to the love of power, but even to sacri-
fice the desire of equality. It is neither rational to
expect the first, nor just to require the last. The
smaller States, considering how peculiarly their
safety and welfare depend on union, ought readily
to renounce a pretension which, if not relinquished,
would prove fatal to its duration.

It may be objected to this, that not seven but
nine States, or two thirds of the whole number, must
consent to the most important resolutions; and it
may be thence inferred, that nine States would
always comprehend a majority of the Union. But
this does not obviate the impropriety of an equal
vote between States of the most unequal dimensions

1 New Hampshire, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware, Georgia,
South Carolina, and Maryland are a majority of the whole number of
the States, but they do not contain one third of the people. — Publius.

172 Alexander Hamilton

and populousness ; nor is the inference accurate in
point of fact; for we can enumerate nine States
which contain less than a majority of the people1;
and it is constitutionally possible that these nine
may give the vote. Besides, there are matters of
considerable moment determinable by a bare ma-
jority ; and there are others, concerning which doubts
have been entertained, which, if interpreted in
favor of the sufficiency of a vote of seven States,
would extend its operation to interests of the first
magnitude. In addition to this, it is to be observed
that there is a probability of an increase in the num-
ber of States, and no provision for a proportional
augmentation of the ratio of votes.

But this is not all : what at first sight may seem a
remedy, is, in reality, a poison. To give a minority
a negative upon the majority (which is always the
case where more than a majority is requisite to a
decision), is, in its tendency, to subject the sense of
the greater number to that of the lesser. Congress,
from the non-attendance of a few States, have been
frequently in the situation of a Polish diet, where a
single vote has been sufficient to put a stop to all
their movements. A sixtieth part of the Union,
which is about the proportion of Delaware and Rhode
Island, has several times been able to oppose an entire
bar to its operations. This is one of those refine-
ments which, in practice, has an effect the reverse
of what is expected from it in theory. The neces-
sity of unanimity in public bodies, or of something

1 Add New York and Connecticut to the foregoing seven, and they
will be less than a majority. — Publius.

The Federalist 173

approaching towards it, has been founded upon a
supposition that it would contribute to security.
But its real operation is to embarrass the adminis-
tration, to destroy the energy of the government,
and to substitute the pleasure, caprice, or artifices
of an insignificant, turbulent, or corrupt junto, to
the regular deliberations and decisions of a respect-
able majority. In those emergencies of a nation, in
which the goodness or badness, the weakness or
strength of its government, is of the greatest im-
portance, there is commonly a necessity for action.
The public business must, in some way or other, go
forward. If a pertinacious minority can control the
opinion of a majority, respecting the best mode of
conducting it, the majority, in order that something
may be done, must conform to the views of the
minority ; and thus the sense of the smaller number
will overrule that of the greater, and give a tone to
the national proceedings. Hence, tedious delays;
continual negotiation and intrigue; contemptible
compromises of the public good. And yet, in such
a system, it is even happy when such compromises
can take place: for upon some occasions things will
not admit of accommodation ; and then the measures
of government must be injuriously suspended, or
fatally defeated. It is often, by the impracticability
of obtaining the concurrence of the necessary num-
ber of votes, kept in a state of inaction. Its situa-
tion must always savor of weakness, sometimes
border upon anarchy.

It is not difficult to discover, that a principle of
this kind gives greater scope to foreign corruption,

174 Alexander Hamilton

as well as to domestic faction, than that which per-
mits the sense of the majority to decide; though
the contrary of this has been presumed. The mis-
take has proceeded from not attending with due
care to the mischiefs that may be occasioned by
obstructing the progress of government at certain
critical seasons. When the concurrence of a large
number is required by the Constitution to the doing
of any national act, we are apt to rest satisfied that
all is safe, because nothing improper will be likely
to be done; but we forget how much good may be
prevented, and how much ill may be produced, by
the power of hindering the doing what may be neces-
sary, and of keeping affairs in the same unfavorable
posture in which they may happen to stand at par-
ticular periods.

Suppose, for instance, we were engaged in a war,
in conjunction with one foreign nation, against an-
other. Suppose the necessity of our situation de-
manded peace, and the interest or ambition of our
ally led him to seek the prosecution of the war, with
views that might justify us in making separate terms.
In such a state of things, this ally of ours would evi-
dently find it much easier, by his bribes and in-
trigues, to tie up the hands of government from
making peace, where two thirds of all the votes were
requisite to that object, than where a simple major-
ity would suffice. In the first case, he would have
to corrupt a smaller number; in the last, a greater
number. Upon the same principle, it would be
much easier for a foreign power with which we were
at war to perplex our councils and embarrass our

The Federalist 175

exertions. And, in a commercial view, we may be
subjected to similar inconveniences. A nation, with
which we might have a treaty of commerce, could
with much greater facility prevent our forming a
connection with her competitor in trade, though
such a connection should be ever so beneficial to
ourselves.

Evils of this description ought not to be regarded
as imaginary. One of the weak sides of republics,
among their numerous advantages, is that they
afford too easy an inlet to foreign corruption. An
hereditary monarch, though often disposed to sacri-
fice his subjects to his ambition, has so great a per-
sonal interest in the government and in the external
glory of the nation, that it is not easy for a foreign
power to give him an equivalent for what he would
sacrifice by treachery to the state. The world has
accordingly been witness to few examples of this
species of royal prostitution, though there have been
abundant specimens of every other kind.

In republics, persons elevated from the mass of
the community, by the suffrages of their fellow-
citizens, to stations of great pre-eminence and
power, may find compensations for betraying their
trust, which, to any but minds animated and guided
by superior virtue, may appear to exceed the propor-
tion of interest they have in the common stock, and
to overbalance the obligations of duty. Hence it is
that history furnishes us with so many mortifying
examples of the prevalency of foreign corruption in
republican governments. How much this contri-
buted to the ruin of the ancient commonwealths has

176 Alexander Hamilton

been already delineated. It is well known that the
deputies of the United Provinces have, in various
instances, been purchased by the emissaries of the
neighboring kingdoms. The Earl of Chesterfield (if
my memory serves me right), in a letter to his court,
intimates that his success in an important negotia-
tion must depend on his obtaining a major's com-
mission for one of those deputies. And in Sweden
the parties were alternately bought by France and
England in so barefaced and notorious a manner
that it excited universal disgust in the nation, and
was a principal cause that the most limited monarch
in Europe, in a single day, without tumult, violence,
or opposition, became one of the most absolute and
uncontrolled.

A circumstance which crowns the defects of the
Confederation remains yet to be mentioned, — the
want of a judiciary power. Laws are a dead letter
without courts to expound and define their true
meaning and operation. The treaties of the United
States, to have any force at all, must be considered
as part of the law of the land. Their true import, as
far as respects individuals, must, like all other laws,
be ascertained by judicial determinations. To pro-
duce uniformity in these determinations, they ought
to be submitted, in the last resort, to one supreme
tribunal. And this tribunal ought to be instituted
under the same authority which forms the treaties
themselves. These ingredients are both indispen-
sable. If there is in each State a court of final
jurisdiction, there may be as many different final
determinations on the same point as there are courts.

The Federalist 177

There are endless diversities in the opinions of men.
We often see not only different courts but the judges
of the same court differing from each other. To
avoid the confusion which would unavoidably result
from the contradictory decisions of a number of in-
dependent judicatories, all nations have found it
necessary to establish one court paramount to the
rest, possessing a general superintendence, and au-
thorized to settle and declare in the last resort a uni-
form rule of civil justice.

This is the more necessary where the frame of
the government is so compounded that the laws of
the whole are in danger of being contravened by the
laws of the parts. In this case, if the particular
tribunals are invested with a right of ultimate juris-
diction, besides the contradictions to be expected
from difference of opinion, there will be much to
fear from the bias of local views and prejudices, and
from the interference of local regulations. As often
as such an interference was to happen, there would
be reason to apprehend that the provisions of the
particular laws might be preferred to those of the
general laws; for nothing is more natural to men in
office than to look with peculiar deference towards
that authority to which they owe their official exist-
ence. The treaties of the United States, under the
present Constitution, are liable to the infractions of
thirteen different legislatures, and as many differ-
ent courts of final jurisdiction, acting under the
authority of those legislatures. The faith, the repu-
tation, the peace of the whole Union, are thus con-
tinually at the mercy of the prejudices, the passions,

VOL. XI.— 12.

178 Alexander Hamilton

and the interests of every member of which it is
composed. Is it possible that foreign nations can
either respect or confide in such a government? Is
it possible that the people of America will longer
consent to trust their honor, their happiness, their
safety, on so precarious a foundation?

In this review of the Confederation, I have con-
fined myself to the exhibition of its most material
defects; passing over those imperfections in its de-
tails by which even a great part of the power in-
tended to be conferred upon it has been in a great
measure rendered abortive. It must be by this time
evident to all men of reflection, who can divest them-
selves of the prepossessions of preconceived opinions,
that it is a system so radically vicious and unsound,
as to admit not of amendment but by an entire
change in its leading features and characters.

The organization of Congress is itself utterly im-
proper for the exercise of those powers which are
necessary to be deposited in the Union. A single
assembly may be a proper receptacle of those slender,
or rather fettered, authorities, which have been
heretofore delegated to the federal head; but it
would be inconsistent with all the principles of good
government, to intrust it with those additional
powers which, even the moderate and more rational
adversaries of the proposed Constitution admit,
ought to reside in the United States. If that plan
should not be adopted, and if the necessit}^ of the
Union should be able to withstand the ambitious
aims of those men who may indulge magnificent
schemes of personal aggrandizement from its disso-

The Federalist 179

lution, the probability would be, that we should run
into the project of conferring supplementary powers
upon Congress, as they are now constituted; and
either the machine, from the intrinsic feebleness of
its structure, will moulder into pieces, in spite of our
ill-judged efforts to prop it; or, by successive aug-
mentations of its force and energy, as necessity
might prompt, we shall finally accumulate, in a
single body, all the most important prerogatives of
sovereignty, and thus entail upon our posterity one
of the most execrable forms of government that
human infatuation ever contrived. Thus we should
create in reality that very tyranny which the adver-
saries of the new Constitution either are, or affect
to be, solicitous to avert.

It has not a little contributed to the infirmities of
the existing federal system, that it never had a
ratification by the people. Resting on no better
foundation than the consent of the several legisla-
tures, it has been exposed to frequent and intricate
questions concerning the validity of its powers, and
has, in some instances, given birth to the enormous
doctrine of a right of legislative repeal. Owing its
ratification to the law of a State, it has been con-
tended that the same authority might repeal the law
by which it was ratified. However gross a heresy
it may be to maintain that a party to a compact
has a right to revoke that compact, the doctrine it-
self has had respectable advocates. The possibility
of a question of this nature proves the necessity
of laying the foundations of our national govern-
ment deeper than in the mere sanction of delegated

180 Alexander Hamilton

authority. The fabric of American empire ought to

rest on the solid basis of the consent of the

people. The streams of national power ought to

flow immediately from that pure, original fountain

of all legitimate authority.

Publius.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, December 18, 1787
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The necessity of a Constitution, at least equally
energetic with the one proposed, to the preservation
of the Union, is the point at the examination of
which we are now arrived.

This inquiry will naturally divide itself into three
branches — the objects to be provided for by the
federal government, the quantity of power neces-
sary to the accomplishment of those objects, the
persons upon whom that power ought to operate.
Its distribution and organization will more properly
claim our attention under the succeeding head.

The principal purposes to be answered by union
are these — the common defence of the members;
the preservation of the public peace, as well against
internal convulsions as external attacks; the regu-
lation of commerce with other nations and between
the States; the superintendence of our intercourse,
political and commercial, with foreign countries.

The authorities essential to the common defence
are these: to raise armies ; to build and equip fleets ;

The Federalist 181

to prescribe rules for the government of both; to
direct their operations; to provide for their sup-
port. These powers ought to exist without limita-
tion, because it is impossible to foresee or define the
extent and variety of national exigencies, or the cor-
respondent extent and variety of the means which may
be necessary to satisfy them. The circumstances that
endanger the safety of nations are infinite, and for
this reason no constitutional shackles can wisely be
imposed on the power to which the care of it is com-
mitted. This power ought to be co-extensive with
all the possible combinations of such circumstances;
and ought to be under the direction of the same
councils which are appointed to preside over the
common defence.

This is one of those truths which, to a correct and
unprejudiced mind, carries its own evidence along
with it; and may be obscured, but cannot be made
plainer by argument or reasoning. It rests upon
axioms as simple as they are universal; the means
ought to be proportioned to the end; the persons,
from whose agency the attainment of any end is ex-
pected, ought to possess the means by which it is to
be attained.

Whether there ought to be a federal government
intrusted with the care of the common defence, is a
question in the first instance, open for discussion;
but the moment it is decided in the affirmative,
it will follow, that that government ought to be
clothed with all the powers requisite to complete
execution of its trust. And unless it can be shown
that the circumstances which may affect the public

1 82 Alexander Hamilton

safety are reducible within certain determinate lim-
its ; unless the contrary of this position can be fairly
and rationally disputed, it must be admitted, as a
necessary consequence, that there can be no limita-
tion of that authority which is to provide for the
defence and protection of the community, in any
matter essential to its efficacy — that is, in any mat-
ter essential to the formation, direction, or support

Of the NATIONAL FORCES.

Defective as the present Confederation has been
proved to be, this principle appears to have been
fully recognized by the framers of it; though they
have not made proper or adequate provision for its
exercise. Congress have an unlimited discretion to
make requisitions of men and money; to govern
the army and navy ; to direct their operations. As
their requisitions are made constitutionally binding
upon the States, who are in fact under the most
solemn obligations to furnish the supplies required
of them, the intention evidently was, that the United
States should command whatever resources were by
them judged requisite to the " common defence and
general welfare." It was presumed that a sense of
their true interests, and a regard to the dictates of
good faith, would be found sufficient pledges for the
punctual performance of the duty of the members to
the federal head.

The experiment has, however, demonstrated that
this expectation was ill-founded and illusory; and
the observations, made under the last head, will, I
imagine, have sufficed to convince the impartial and
discerning, that there is an absolute necessity for an

The Federalist 18
entire change in the first principles of the system;
that if we are in earnest about giving the Union
energy and duration, we must abandon the vain
project of legislating upon the States in their col-
lective capacities; we must extend the laws of the
federal government to the individual citizens of
America; we must discard the fallacious scheme of
quotas and requisitions, as equally impracticable
and unjust. The result from all this is that the
Union ought to be invested with full power to levy
troops; to build and equip fleets; and to raise the
revenues which will be required for the formation
and support of an army and navy, in the customary
and ordinary modes practised in other governments.
If the circumstances of our country are such as to
demand a compound instead of a simple, a con-
federate instead of a sole, government, the essen-
tial point which will remain to be adjusted will be
to discriminate the objects, as far as it can be done,
which shall appertain to the different provinces or
departments of power; allowing to each the most
ample authority for fulfilling the objects committed
to its charge. Shall the Union be constituted the
guardian of the common safety? Are fleets and ar-
mies and revenues necessary to this purpose? The
government of the Union must be empowered to pass
all laws, and to make all regulations which have re-
lation to them. The same must be the case in re-
spect to commerce, and to every other matter to
which its jurisdiction is permitted to extend. Is
the administration of justice between the citizens of
the same State the proper department of the local

184 Alexander Hamilton

governments ? These must possess all the authorities
which are connected with this object, and with every
other that may be allotted to their particular cogni-
zance and direction. Not to confer in each case a
degree of power commensurate to the end, would be
to violate the most obvious rules of prudence and
propriety, and improvidently to trust the great in-
terests of the nation to hands which are disabled
from managing them with vigor and success.

Who so likely to make suitable provisions for the
public defence, as that body to which the guardian-
ship of the public safety is confided; which, as the
centre of information, will best understand the ex-
tent and urgency of the dangers that threaten; as
the representative of the whole, will feel itself most
deeply interested in the preservation of every part;
which, from the responsibility implied in the duty
assigned to it, will be most sensibly impressed with
the necessity of proper exertions; and which, by
the extension of its authority throughout the States,
can alone establish uniformity and concert in the
plans and measures by which the common safety is
to be secured ? Is there not a manifest inconsistency
in devolving upon the federal government the care
of the general defence, and leaving in the State gov-
ernments the effective powers by which it is to be
provided for? Is not a want of co-operation the in-
fallible consequence of such a system? And will
not weakness, disorder, an undue distribution of
the burdens and calamities of war, an unnecessary
and intolerable increase of expense, be its natural
and inevitable concomitants ? Have we not had un-

The Federalist 185

equivocal experience of its effects in the course of the
revolution which we have just accomplished?

Every view we may take of the subject, as candid
inquirers after truth, will serve to convince us, that
it is both unwise and dangerous to deny the federal
government an unconfined authority, as to all those
objects which are intrusted to its management. It
will indeed deserve the most vigilant and careful at-
tention of the people, to see that it be modelled in
such a manner as to admit of its being safely vested
with the requisite powers. If any plan which has
been, or may be, offered to our consideration, should
not, upon a dispassionate inspection, be found to
answer this description, it ought to be rejected. A
government, the constitution of which renders it
unfit to be trusted with all the powers which a free
people ought to delegate to any government, would be
an unsafe and improper depositary of the national
interests. Wherever these can with propriety be
confided, the coincident powers may safely accom-
pany them. This is the true result of all just reason-
ing upon the subject. And the adversaries of the
plan promulgated by the convention ought to have
confined themselves to showing, that the internal
structure of the proposed government was such as
to render it unworthy of the confidence of the people.
They ought not to have wandered into inflammatory
declamations and unmeaning cavils about the ex-
tent of the powers. The powers are not too ex-
tensive for the objects of federal administration, or,
in other words, for the management of our national
interests; nor can any satisfactory argument be

1 86 Alexander Hamilton

framed to show that they are chargeable with such
an excess. If it be true, as has been insinuated by
some of the writers on the other side, that the diffi-
culty arises from the nature of the thing, and that
the extent of the country will not permit us to form
a government in which such ample powers can
safely be reposed, it would prove that we ought to
contract our views, and resort to the expedient of
separate confederacies, which will move within more
practicable spheres. For the absurdity must con-
tinually stare us in the face of confiding to a govern-
ment the direction of the most essential national
interests, without daring to trust to it the author-
ities which are indispensable to their proper and
efficient management. Let us not attempt to recon-
cile contradictions, but firmly embrace a rational
alternative.

I trust, however, that the impracticability of one
general system cannot be shown. I am greatly mis-
taken, if any thing of weight has yet been advanced
of this tendency; and I flatter myself, that the ob-
servations which have been made in the course of
these papers have served to place the reverse of that
position in as clear a light as any matter still in the
womb of time and experience can be susceptible of.
This, at all events, must be evident, that the very
difficulty itself, drawn from the extent of the country,
is the strongest argument in favor of an energetic
government; for any other can certainly never pre-
serve the Union of so large an empire. If we em-
brace the tenets of those who oppose the adoption
of the proposed Constitution, as the standard of our

The Federalist 187

political creed, we cannot fail to verify the gloomy
doctrines which predict the impracticability of a
national system pervading the entire limits of the
present Confederacy.

Publius.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXIV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

To the powers proposed to be conferred upon the
federal government, in respect to the creation and
direction of the national forces, I have met with but
one specific objection, which, if I understand it
right, is this, — that proper provision has not been
made against the existence of standing armies in
time of peace, an objection which, I shall now en-
deavor to show, rests on weak and unsubstantial
foundations.

It has indeed been brought forward in the most
vague and general form, supported only by bold
assertions, without the appearance of argument;
without even the sanction of theoretical opinions;
in contradiction to the practice of other free nations,
and to the general sense of America, as expressed in
most of the existing constitutions. The propriety
of this remark will appear, the moment it is recol-
lected that the objection under consideration turns
upon a supposed necessity of restraining the legis-
lative authority of the nation, in the article of

1 88 Alexander Hamilton

military establishments; a principle unheard of, ex-
cept in one or two of our State constitutions, and
rejected in all the rest.

A stranger to our politics, who was to read our
newspapers at the present juncture, without having
previously inspected the plan reported by the con-
vention, would be naturally led to one of two
conclusions: either that it contained a positive in-
junction, that standing armies should be kept up in
time of peace ; or that it vested in the executive
the whole power of levying troops, without subject-
ing his discretion, in any shape, to the control of
the legislature.

If he came afterwards to peruse the plan itself, he
would be surprised to discover, that neither the one
nor the other was the case ; that the whole power of
raising armies was lodged in the Legislature, not in
the Executive; that this legislature was to be a popu-
lar body, consisting of the representatives of the
people periodically elected; and that instead of the
provision he had supposed in favor of standing ar-
mies, there was to be found, in respect to this object,
an important qualification even of the legislative
discretion, in that clause which forbids the appro-
priation of money for the support of an army for any
longer period than two years — a precaution which,
upon a nearer view of it, will appear to be a great
and real security against the keeping up of troops
without evident necessity.

Disappointed in his first surmise, the person I have
supposed would be apt to pursue his conjectures a
little further. He would naturally say to himself,

The Federalist 189

it is impossible that all this vehement and pathetic
declamation can be without some colorable pretext.
It must needs be that this people, so jealous of their
liberties, have, in all the preceding models of the
constitutions which they have established, inserted
the most precise and rigid precautions on this point,
the omission of which, in the new plan, has given
birth to all this apprehension and clamor.

If, under this impression, he proceeded to pass in
review the several State constitutions, how great
would be his disappointment to find that two only of
them1 contained an interdiction of standing armies
in time of peace; that the other eleven had either
observed a profound silence on the subject, or had
in express terms admitted the right of the Legis-
lature to authorize their existence.

Still, however, he would be persuaded that there
must be some plausible foundation for the cry raised
on this head. He would never be able to imagine,
while any source of information remained unexplored,

1 This statement of the matter is taken from the printed collection
of State Constitutions. Pennsylvania and North Carolina are the
two which contain the interdiction in these words: "As standing
armies in time of peace are dangerous to liberty, they ought not to
be kept up." This is, in truth, rather a caution than a prohibition.
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Delaware, and Maryland have, in
each of their bills of rights, a clause to this effect: "Standing armies
are dangerous to liberty, and ought not to be raised or kept up with-
out the consent of the Legislature" ; which is a formal admission
of the authority of the Legislature. New York has no bills of rights,
and her constitution says not a word about the matter. No bills of
rights appear annexed to the constitutions of the other States, except
the foregoing, and their constitutions are equally silent. I am told,
however, that one or two States have bills of rights which do not ap-
pear in this collection; but that those also recognize the right of the
legislative authority in this respect. — Publius.

190 Alexander Hamilton

that it was nothing more than an experiment upon
the public credulity, dictated either by a deliber-
ate intention to deceive, or by the overflowings of
a zeal too intemperate to be ingenuous. It would
probably occur to him, that he would be likely to
find the precautions he was in search of in the primi-
tive compact between the States. Here, at length,
he would expect to meet with a solution of the
enigma. No doubt, he would observe to himself,
the existing Confederation must contain the most
explicit provisions against military establishments
in time of peace; and a departure from this model,
in a favorite point, has occasioned the discontent
which appears to influence these political champions.
If he should now apply himself to a careful and
critical survey of the articles of Confederation, his
astonishment would not only be increased, but
would acquire a mixture of indignation, at the un-
expected discovery, that these articles, instead of
containing the prohibition he looked for, and though
they had, with jealous circumspection, restricted
the authority of the State legislatures in this par-
ticular, had not imposed a single restraint on that
of the United States. If he happened to be a man
of quick sensibility, or ardent temper, he could now
no longer refrain from regarding these clamors as
the dishonest artifices of a sinister and unprincipled
opposition to a plan which ought at least to receive
a fair and candid examination from all sincere lovers
of their country! How else, he would say, could the
authors of them have been tempted to vent such
loud censures upon that plan, about a point in which

The Federalist 191

it seems to have conformed itself to the general sense
of America as declared in its different forms of gov-
ernment, and in which it has even superadded a new
and powerful guard unknown to any of them? If,
on the contrary, he happened to be a man of calm
and dispassionate feelings, he would indulge a sigh
for the frailty of human nature, and would lament,
that in a matter so interesting to the happiness of
millions, the true merits of the question should be
perplexed and entangled by expedients so unfriendly
to an impartial and right determination. Even
such a man could hardly forbear remarking, that a
conduct of this kind has too much the appearance of
an intention to mislead the people by alarming their
passions, rather than to convince them by arguments
addressed to their understandings.

But however little this objection may be counte-
nanced, even by precedents among ourselves, it may
be satisfactory to take a nearer view of its intrinsic
merits. From a close examination it will appear
that restraints upon the discretion of the legislature
in respect to military establishments in time of
peace, would be improper to be imposed, and if im-
posed, from the necessities of society, would be un-
likely to be observed.

Though a wide ocean separates the United States
from Europe, yet there are various considerations
that warn us against an excess of confidence or se-
curity. On one side of us, and stretching far into
our rear, are growing settlements subject to the do-
minion of Britain. On the other side, and extend-
ing to meet the British settlements, are colonies and

192 Alexander Hamilton

establishments subject to the dominion of Spain.
This situation and the vicinity of the West India
Islands, belonging to these two powers, create be-
tween them, in respect to their American possessions
and in relation to us, a common interest. The sav-
age tribes on our Western frontier ought to be re-
garded as our natural enemies, their natural allies,
because they have most to fear from us, and most to
hope from them. The improvements in the art of
navigation have, as to the facility of communication,
rendered distant nations, in a great measure, neigh-
bors. Britain and Spain are among the principal
maritime powers of Europe. A future concert of
views between these nations ought not to be re-
garded as improbable. The increasing remoteness
of consanguinity is every day diminishing the force
of the family compact between France and Spain.
And politicians have ever with great reason con-
sidered the ties of blood as feeble and precarious
links of political connection. These circumstances
combined, admonish us not to be too sanguine in
considering ourselves as entirely out of the reach of
danger.

Previous to the Revolution, and ever since the
peace, there has been a constant necessity for keep-
ing small garrisons on our Western frontier. No
person can doubt that these will continue to be in-
dispensable, if it should only be against the ravages
and depredations of the Indians. These garrisons
must either be furnished by occasional detachments
from the militia, or by permanent corps in the pay of
the government. The first is impracticable ; and if

The Federalist 193

practicable, would be pernicious. The militia would
not long, if at all, submit to be dragged from their
occupations and families to perform that most dis-
agreeable duty in times of profound peace. And if
they could be prevailed upon or compelled to do it,
the increased expense of a frequent rotation of serv-
ice, and the loss of labor and disconcertion of the
industrious pursuits of individuals, would form con-
clusive objections to the scheme. It would be as
burdensome and injurious to the public as ruinous
to private citizens. The latter resource of permanent
corps in the pay of the government amounts to a
standing army in time of peace ; a small one, indeed,
but not the less real for being small. Here is a sim-
ple view of the subject, that shows us at once the
impropriety of a constitutional interdiction of such
establishments, and the necessity of leaving the
matter to the discretion and prudence of the legis-
lature.

In proportion to our increase in strength, it is
probable, nay, it may be said certain, that Britain
and Spain would augment their military establish-
ments in our neighborhood. If we should not be
willing to be exposed, in a naked and defenceless
condition, to their insults and encroachments, we
should find it expedient to increase our frontier
garrisons in some ratio to the force by which our
Western settlements might be annoyed. There are,
and will be, particular posts, the possession of which
will include the command of large districts of terri-
tory, and facilitate future invasions of the remainder.
It may be added that some of those posts will be

VOL. XI.— 13.

194 Alexander Hamilton

keys to the trade with the Indian nations. Can any
man think it would be wise to leave such posts in a
situation to be at any instant seized by one or the
other of two neighboring and formidable powers?
To act this part would be to desert all the usual
maxims of prudence and policy.

If we mean to be a commercial people, or even to
be secure on our Atlantic side, we must endeavor, as
soon as possible, to have a navy. To this purpose
there must be dock-yards and arsenals ; and for the
defence of these, fortifications, and probably garri-
sons. When a nation has become so powerful by
sea that it can protect its dock-yards by its fleets,
this supersedes the necessity of garrisons for that
purpose; but where naval establishments are in
their infancy, moderate garrisons will, in all likeli-
hood, be found an indispensable security against
descents for the destruction of the arsenals and
dock-yards, and sometimes of the fleet itself.

Publius.

From the New York Packet, Friday, December 21, 1787
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It may perhaps be urged that the objects enumer-
ated in the preceding number ought to be provided
for by the State governments, under the direction
of the Union. But this would be, in reality, an
inversion of the primary principle of our political
association, as it would in practice transfer the care

The Federalist 195

of the common defence from the federal head to the
individual members: a project oppressive to some
States, dangerous to all, and baneful to the Con-
federacy.

The territories of Britain, Spain, and of the Indian
nations in our neighborhood do not border on par-
ticular States, but encircle the Union from Maine to
Georgia. The danger, though in different degrees,
is therefore common. And the means of guarding
against it ought, in like manner, to be the objects of
common councils and of a common treasury. It
happens that some States, from local situation, are
more directly exposed. New York is of this class.
Upon the plan of separate provisions, New York
would have to sustain the whole weight of the estab-
lishments requisite to her immediate safety, and to
the mediate or ultimate protection of her neighbors.
This would neither be equitable as it respected New
York nor safe as it respected the other States.
Various inconveniences would attend such a system.
The States, to whose lot it might fall to support the
necessary establishments, would be as little able as
willing, for a considerable time to come, to bear the
burden of competent provisions. The security of
all would thus be subjected to the parsimony, im-
providence, or inability of a part. If the resources
of such part becoming more abundant and exten-
sive, its provisions should be proportionally en-
larged, the other States would quickly take the
alarm at seeing the whole military force of the Union
in the hands of two or three of its members, and
those probably amongst the most powerful. They

196 Alexander Hamilton

would each choose to have some counterpoise, and
pretences could easily be contrived. In this situa-
tion, military establishments, nourished by mutual
jealousy, would be apt to swell beyond their natural
or proper size ; and being at the separate disposal of
the members, they would be engines for the abridg-
ment or demolition of the national authority.

Reasons have been already given to induce a
supposition that the State governments will too
naturally be prone to a rivalship with that of the
Union, the foundation of which will be the love of
power; and that in any contest between the federal
head and one of its members the people will be most
apt to unite with their local government. If, in
addition to this immense advantage, the ambition
of the members should be stimulated by the separate
and independent possession of military forces, it
would afford too strong a temptation and too great
a facility to them to make enterprises upon, and
finally to subvert, the constitutional authority of the
Union. On the other hand, the liberty of the people
would be less safe in this state of things than in that
which left the national forces in the hands of the
national government. As far as an army may be
considered as a dangerous weapon of power, it had
better be in those hands of which the people are
most likely to be jealous than in those of which they
are least likely to be jealous. For it is a truth,
which the experience of ages has attested, that the
people are always most in danger when the means of
injuring their rights are in the possession of those
of whom they entertain the least suspicion.

The Federalist 197

The framers of the existing Confederation, fully
aware of the danger to the Union from the separate
possession of military forces by the States, have, in
express terms, prohibited them from having either
ships or troops, unless with the consent of Congress.
The truth is, that the existence of a federal govern-
ment and military establishments under State au-
thority are not less at variance with each other than
a due supply of the federal treasury and the system
of quotas and requisitions.

There are other lights besides those already taken
notice of, in which the impropriety of restraints on
the discretion of the national legislature will be
equally manifest. The design of the objection,
which has been mentioned, is to preclude standing
armies in time of peace, though we have never been
informed how far it is designed the prohibition should
extend: whether to raising armies as well as to
keeping them up in a season of tranquillity or not.
If it be confined to the latter it will have no precise
signification, and it will be ineffectual for the pur-
pose intended. When armies are once raised what
shall be denominated " keeping them up," contrary
to the sense of the Constitution? What time shall
be requisite to ascertain the violation? Shall it be
a week, a month, a year? Or shall we say they may
be continued as long as the danger which occasioned
their being raised continues? This would be to
admit that they might be kept up in time of peace,
against threatening or impending danger, which
would be at once to deviate from the literal meaning
of the prohibition, and to introduce an extensive

198 Alexander Hamilton

latitude of construction. Who shall judge of the
continuance of the danger? This must undoubtedly
be submitted to the national government, and the
matter would then be brought to this issue, that the
national government, to provide against appre-
hended danger, might in the first instance raise
troops, and might afterwards keep them on foot
as long as they supposed the peace or safety of the
community was in any degree of jeopardy. It is
easy to perceive that a discretion so latitudinary
as this would afford ample room for eluding the
force of the provision.

The supposed utility of a provision of this kind can
only be founded on the supposed probability, or at
least possibility, of a combination between the exec-
utive and the legislative, in some scheme of usur-
pation. Should this at any time happen, how easy
would it be to fabricate pretences of approaching
danger! Indian hostilities, instigated by Spain or
Britain, would always be at hand. Provocations to
produce the desired appearances might even be given
to some foreign power, and appeased again by timely
concessions. If we can reasonably presume such a
combination to have been formed, and that the enter-
prise is warranted by a sufficient prospect of success,
the army, when once raised, from whatever cause, or
on whatever pretext, may be applied to the execution
of the project.

If, to obviate this consequence, it should be re-
solved to extend the prohibition to the raising of
armies in time of peace, the United States would
then exhibit the most extraordinary spectacle which

The Federalist 199

the world has yet seen, — that of a nation incapaci-
tated by its Constitution to prepare for defence, be-
fore it was actually invaded. As the ceremony of a
formal denunciation of war has of late fallen into
disuse, the presence of an enemy within our terri-
tories must be waited for, as the legal warrant to the
government to begin its levies of men for the protec-
tion of the State. We must receive the blow, before
we could even prepare to return it. All that kind of
policy by which nations anticipate distant danger,
and meet the gathering storm, must be abstained
from, as contrary to the genuine maxims of a free
government. We must expose our property and
liberty to the mercy of foreign invaders, and invite
them by our weakness to seize the naked and defence-
less prey, because we are afraid that rulers, created
by our choice, dependent on our will, might endanger
that liberty, by an abuse of the means necessary to
its preservation.

Here I expect we shall be told that the militia of
the country is its natural bulwark, and would be at
all times equal to the national defence. This doc-
trine, in substance, had like to have lost us our in-
dependence. It cost millions to the United States
that might have been saved. The facts which,
from our own experience, forbid a reliance of this
kind, are too recent to permit us to be the dupes of
such a suggestion. The steady operations of war
against a regular and disciplined army can only be
successfully conducted by a force of the same kind.
Considerations of economy, not less than of stabil-
ity and vigor, confirm this position. The American

2oo Alexander Hamilton

militia, in the course of the late war, have, by their
valor on numerous occasions, erected eternal monu-
ments to their fame; but the bravest of them feel
and know that the liberty of their country could not
have been established by their efforts alone, however
great and valuable they were. War, like most other
things, is a science to be acquired and perfected by
diligence, by perseverance, by time, and by practice.
All violent policy, as it is contrary to the natural
and experienced course of human affairs, defeats it-
self. Pennsylvania, at this instant, affords an ex-
ample of the truth of this remark. The Bill of Rights
of that State declares that standing armies are dan-
gerous to liberty, and ought not to be kept up in
time of peace. Pennsylvania, nevertheless, in a
time of profound peace, from the existence of partial
disorders in one or two of her counties, has resolved
to raise a body of troops ; and in all probability will
keep them up as long as there is any appearance of
danger to the public peace. The conduct of Massa-
chusetts affords a lesson on the same subject, though
on different ground. That State (without waiting
for the sanction of Congress, as the articles of the
Confederation require) was compelled to raise troops
to quell a domestic insurrection, and still keeps a
corps in pay to prevent a revival of the spirit of
revolt. The particular constitution of Massachu-
setts opposed no obstacle to the measure; but the
instance is still of use to instruct us that cases are
likely to occur under our government, as well as
under those of other nations, which will sometimes
render a military force in time of peace essential to

The Federalist 201

the security of the society, and that it is therefore
improper in this respect to control the legislative
discretion. It also teaches us, in its application to
the United States, how little the rights of a feeble
government are likely to be respected, even by its
own constituents. And it teaches us, in addition
to the rest, how unequal parchment provisions are
to a struggle with public necessity.

It was a fundamental maxim of the Lacedaemonian
commonwealth, that the post of admiral should not
be conferred twice on the same person. The Pelo-
ponnesian confederates, having suffered a severe
defeat at sea from the Athenians, demanded Ly-
sander, who had before served with success in that
capacity, to command the combined fleets. The
Lacedaemonians, to gratify their allies, and yet pre-
serve the semblance of an adherence to their ancient
institutions, had recourse to the flimsy subterfuge
of investing Lysander with the real power of ad-
miral, under the nominal title of vice-admiral. This
instance is selected from among a multitude that
might be cited to confirm the truth already ad-
vanced and illustrated by domestic examples ; which
is, that nations pay little regard to rules and maxims
calculated in their very nature to run counter to the
necessities of society. Wise politicians will be cau-
tious about fettering the government with restrictions
that cannot be observed, because they know that
every breach of the fundamental laws, though dic-
tated by necessity, impairs that sacred reverence
which ought to be maintained in the breast of rulers
towards the constitution of a country, and forms a

202 Alexander Hamilton

precedent for other breaches where the same plea of
necessity does not exist at all, or is less urgent and
palpable.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal
SFHE FEDERALIST. No. XXVI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It was a thing hardly to be expected that in a
popular revolution the minds of men should stop at
that happy mean which marks the salutary boundary
between power and privilege, and combines the
energy of government with the security of private
rights. A failure in this delicate and important point
is the great source of the inconveniences we experi-
ence, and if we are not cautious to avoid a repetition
of the error, in our future attempts to rectify and
ameliorate our system, we may travel from one
chimerical project to another; we may try change
after change; but we shall never be likely to make
any material change for the better.

The idea of restraining the legislative authority,
in the means of providing for the national defence,
is one of those refinements which owe their origin to
a zeal for liberty more ardent than enlightened. We
have seen, however, that it has not had thus far an
extensive prevalency; that even in this country,
where it made its first appearance, Pennsylvania
and North Carolina are the only two States by
which it has been in any degree patronized; and

The Federalist 20

o

that all the others have refused to give it the least
countenance ; wisely judging that confidence must be
placed somewhere; that the necessity of doing it,
is implied in the very act of delegating power; and
that it is better to hazard the abuse of that confi-
dence than to embarrass the government and en-
danger the public safety by impolitic restrictions on
the legislative authority. The opponents of the
proposed Constitution combat, in this respect, the
general decision of America; and instead of being
taught by experience the propriety of correcting any
extremes into which we may have heretofore run,
they appear disposed to conduct us into others still
more dangerous, and more extravagant. As if the
tone of government had been found too high, or too
rigid, the doctrines they teach are calculated to in-
duce us to depress or to relax it, by expedients which,
upon other occasions, have been condemned or for-
borne. It may be affirmed without the imputation
of invective, that if the principles they inculcate, on
various points, could so far obtain as to become the
popular creed, they would utterly unfit the people
of this country for any species of government what-
ever. But a danger of this kind is not to be appre-
hended. The citizens of America have too much
discernment to be argued into anarchy. And I am
much mistaken, if experience has not wrought a
deep and solemn conviction in the public mind, that
greater energy of government is essential to the
welfare and prosperity of the community.

It may not be amiss in this place concisely to re-
mark the origin and progress of the idea, which aims

204 Alexander Hamilton

at the exclusion of military establishments in time
of peace. Though in speculative minds it may
arise from a contemplation of the nature and ten-
dency of such institutions, fortified by the events
that have happened in other ages and countries, yet
as a national sentiment, it must be traced to those
habits of thinking which we derive from the nation
from whom the inhabitants of these States have in
general sprung.

In England, for a long time after the Norman
Conquest, the authority of the monarch was almost
unlimited. Inroads were gradually made upon the
prerogative, in favor of liberty, first by the barons,
and afterwards by the people, till the greatest part
of its most formidable pretensions became extinct.
But it was not till the revolution in 1688, which
elevated the Prince of Orange to the throne of Great
Britain, that English liberty was completely tri-
umphant. As incident to the undefined power of
making war, an acknowledged prerogative of the
crown, Charles II. had, by his own authority, kept
on foot in time of peace a body of 5,000 regular
troops. And this number James II. increased to
30,000; who were paid out of his civil list. At the
revolution, to abolish the exercise of so dangerous an
authority, it became an article of the Bill of Rights
then framed, that " the raising or keeping a standing
army within the kingdom in time of peace, unless
with the consent of Parliament, was against law.

In that kingdom, when the pulse of liberty was at
its highest pitch, no security against the danger of
standing armies was thought requisite, beyond a

The Federalist 205

prohibition of their being raised or kept up by the
mere authority of the executive magistrate. The
patriots, who effected that memorable revolution,
were too temperate, too well-informed, to think of
any restraint on the legislative discretion. They
were aware that a certain number of troops for
guards and garrisons were indispensable; that no
precise bounds could be set to the national exigen-
cies ; that a power equal to every possible contingency
must exist somewhere in the government: and that
when they referred the exercise of that power to the
judgment of the legislature, they had arrived at the
ultimate point of precaution which was reconcilable
with the safety of the community.

From the same source, the people of America may
be said to have derived an hereditary impression of
danger to liberty, from standing armies in time of
peace. The circumstances of a revolution quickened
the public sensibility on every point connected with
the security of popular rights, and in some instances
raised the warmth of our zeal beyond the degree
which consisted with the due temperature of the
body politic. The attempts of two of the States to
restrict the authority of the legislature in the article
of military establishments, are of the number of
these instances. The principles which had taught
us to be jealous of the power of an hereditary mon-
arch were by an injudicious excess extended to the
representatives of the people in their popular assem-
blies. Even in some of the States, where this error
was not adopted, we find unnecessary declarations
that standing armies ought not to be kept up, in

206 Alexander Hamilton

time of peace, without the consent of the legis-
lature. I call them unnecessary, because the
reason which had introduced a similar provision into
the English Bill of Rights is not applicable to any
of the State constitutions. The power of raising
armies at all, under those constitutions, can by no
construction be deemed to reside anywhere else,
than in the legislatures themselves; and it was
superfluous, if not absurd, to declare that a matter
should not be done without the consent of a body,
which alone had the power of doing it. Accordingly,
in some of those constitutions, and among others, in
that of this State of New York, which has been
justly celebrated, both in Europe and America, as
one of the best of the forms of government estab-
lished in this country, there is a total silence upon
the subject.

It is remarkable, that even in the two States which
seem to have meditated an interdiction of military
establishments in time of peace, the mode of expres-
sion made use of is rather cautionary than prohibi-
tory. It is not said, that standing armies shall not
be kept up, but that they ought not to be kept up, in
time of peace. This ambiguity of terms appears to
have been the result of a conflict between jealousy
and conviction; between the desire of excluding
such establishments at all events, and the persuasion
that an absolute exclusion would be unwise and
unsafe.

Can it be doubted that such a provision, whenever
the situation of public affairs was understood to re-
quire a departure from it, would be interpreted by

The Federalist 207

the legislature into a mere admonition, and would
be made to yield to the necessities or supposed neces-
sities of the State ? Let the fact already mentioned,
with respect to Pennsylvania, decide. What then
(it may be asked) is the use of such a provision, if it
cease to operate the moment there is an inclination
to disregard it?

Let us examine whether there be any comparison,-
in point of efficacy, between the provision alluded to
and that which is contained in the new Constitution,
for restraining the appropriations of money for mili-
tary purposes to the period of two years. The
former, by aiming at too much, is calculated to effect
nothing; the latter, by steering clear of an impru-
dent extreme, and by being perfectly compatible with
a proper provision for the exigencies of the nation,
will have a salutary and powerful operation.

The legislature of the United States will be obliged
by this provision, once at least in every two years,
to deliberate upon the propriety of keeping a military
force on foot; to come to a new resolution on the
point ; and to declare their sense of the matter, by a
formal vote in the face of their constituents. They
are not at liberty to vest in the executive department
permanent funds for the support of an army, if they
were even incautious enough to be willing to repose
in it so improper a confidence. As the spirit of party,
in different degrees, must be expected to infect all
political bodies, there will be, no doubt, persons in
the national legislature willing enough to arraign the
measures and criminate the views of the majority.
The provision for the support of a military force will

208 Alexander Hamilton

always be a favorable topic for declamation. As
often as the question comes forward, the public atten-
tion will be roused and attracted to the subject, by
the party in opposition; and if the majority should
be really disposed to exceed the proper limits, the
community will be warned of the danger, and will
have an opportunity of taking measures to guard
against it. Independent of parties in the national
legislature itself, as often as the period of discussion
arrived, the State legislatures, who will always be not
only vigilant but suspicious and jealous guardians
of the rights of the citizens against encroachments
from the federal government, will constantly have
their attention awake to the conduct of the national
rulers, and will be ready enough, if any thing im-
proper appears, to sound the alarm to the people,
and not only to be the voice, but, if necessary, the
arm of their discontent.

Schemes to subvert the liberties of a great com-
munity require time to mature them for execution.
An army, so large as seriously to menace those liber-
ties, could only be formed by progressive augmenta-
tions ; which would suppose, not merely a temporary
combination between the legislature and executive,
but a continued conspiracy for a series of time. Is
it probable that such a combination would exist at
all? Is it probable that it would be persevered in,
and transmitted along through all the successive
variations in a representative body, which biennial
elections would naturally produce in both houses?
Is it presumable, that every man, the instant he took
his seat in the national Senate or House of Repre-

The Federalist 209

sentatives, would commence a traitor to his con-
stituents and to his country? Can it be supposed
that there would not be found one man, discerning
enough to detect so atrocious a conspiracy, or bold
or honest enough to apprise his constituents of their
danger? If such presumptions can fairly be made,
there ought at once to be an end of all delegated
authority. The people should resolve to recall all
the powers they have heretofore parted with out of
their own hands, and to divide themselves into as
many States as there are counties, in order that they
may be able to manage their own concerns in person.

If such suppositions could even be reasonably made,
still the concealment of the design, for any duration,
would be impracticable. It would be announced, by
the very circumstance of augmenting the army to so
great an extent in time of profound peace. What
colorable reason could be assigned, in a country so
situated, for such vast augmentations of the military
force ? It is impossible that the people could be long
deceived ; and the destruction of the project, and of
the projectors, would quickly follow the discovery.

It has been said that the provision which limits
the appropriation of money for the support of an
army to the period of two years would be unavailing,
because the Executive, when once possessed of a
force large enough to awe the people into submission,
would find resources in that very force sufficient to
enable him to dispense with supplies from the acts of
the legislature. But the question again recurs, upon
what pretence could he be put in possession of a
force of that magnitude in time of peace? If we

VOL. XI.— 14.

210 Alexander Hamilton

suppose it to have been created in consequence of
some domestic insurrection or foreign war, then it
becomes a case not within the principles of the ob-
jection; for this is levelled against the power of
keeping up troops in time of peace. Few persons
will be so visionary as seriously to contend that mili-
tary forces ought not to be raised to quell a rebellion
or resist an invasion ; and if the defence of the com-
munity under such circumstances should make it
necessary to have an army so numerous as to hazard
its liberty, this is one of those calamities for which
there is neither preventative nor cure. It cannot
be provided against by any possible form of govern-
ment; it might even result from a simple league
offensive and defensive, if it should ever be necessary
for the confederates or allies to form an army for
common defence.

But it is an evil infinitely less likely to attend us
in a united than in a disunited state ; nay, it may be
safely asserted that it is an evil altogether unlikely
to attend us in the latter situation. It is not easy
to conceive a possibility that dangers so formidable
can assail the whole Union, as to demand a force
considerable enough to place our liberties in the
least jeopardy, especially if we take into our view
the aid to be derived from the militia, which ought
always to be counted upon as a valuable and power-
ful auxiliary. But in a state of disunion (as has
been fully shown in another place), the contrary of
this supposition would become not only probable,
but almost unavoidable.

Publius.

The Federalist 211

Front the New York Packet, Tuesday, December 25, 1787
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXVII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It has been urged, in different shapes, that a Con-
stitution of the kind proposed by the convention
cannot operate without the aid of a military force to
execute its laws. This, however, like most other
things that have been alleged on that side, rests on
mere general assertion, unsupported by any precise
or intelligible designation of the reasons upon which
it is founded. As far as I have been able to divine
the latent meaning of the objectors, it seems to
originate in a presupposition that the people will be
disinclined to the exercise of federal authority in any
matter of an internal nature. Waiving any excep-
tion that might be taken to the inaccuracy or in-
explicitness of the distinction between internal and
external, let us inquire what ground there is to pre-
suppose that disinclination in the people. Unless
we presume at the same time that the powers of the
general government will be worse administered than
those of the State government, there seems to be no
room for the presumption of ill-will, disaffection, or
opposition in the people. I believe it may be laid
down as a general rule that their confidence in
and obedience to a government will commonly be
proportioned to the goodness or badness of its ad-
ministration. It must be admitted that there are
exceptions to this rule ; but these exceptions depend
so entirely on accidental causes, that they cannot be

212 Alexander Hamilton

considered as having any relation to the intrinsic
merits or demerits of a constitution. These can only
be judged of by general principles and maxims.

Various reasons have been suggested, in the course
of these papers, to induce a probability that the
general government will be better administered than
the particular governments: the principal of which
reasons are that the extension of the spheres of elec-
tion will present a greater option, or latitude of
choice, to the people; that through the medium
of the State legislatures — which are select bodies of
men, and which are to appoint the members of the
national Senate — there is reason to expect that this
branch will generally be composed with peculiar
care and judgment ; that these circumstances prom-
ise greater knowledge and more extensive informa-
tion in the national councils, and that they will be
less apt to be tainted by the spirit of faction, and
more out of the reach of those occasional ill-humors,
or temporary prejudices and propensities, which, in
smaller societies, frequently contaminate the public
councils, beget injustice and oppression of a part
of the community, and engender schemes which,
though they gratify a momentary inclination or de-
sire, terminate in general distress, dissatisfaction,
and disgust. Several additional reasons of con-
siderable force, to fortify that probability, will occur
when we come to survey, with a more critical eye,
the interior structure of the edifice which we are in-
vited to erect. It will be sufficient here to remark,
that until satisfactory reasons can be assigned to
justify an opinion, that the federal government is

The Federalist 213

likely to be administered in such a manner as to
render it odious or contemptible to the people, there
can be no reasonable foundation for the supposition
that the laws of the Union will meet with any greater
obstruction from them, or will stand in need of any
other methods to enforce their execution, than the
laws of the particular members.

The hope of impunity is a strong incitement to
sedition ; the dread of punishment, a proportionably
strong discouragement to it. Will not the govern-
ment of the Union, which, if possessed of a due
degree of power, can call to its aid the collective
resources of the whole Confederacy, be more likely
to repress the former sentiment and to inspire the
latter, than that of a single State, which can only
command the resources within itself? A turbulent
faction in a State may easily suppose itself able to
contend with the friends to the government in that
State; but it can hardly be so infatuated as to im-
agine itself a match for the combined efforts of the
Union. If this reflection be just, there is less danger
of resistance from irregular combinations of individ-
uals to the authority of the Confederacy than to
that of a single member.

I will, in this place, hazard an observation, which
will not be the less just because to some it may ap-
pear new; which is, that the more the operations of
the national authority are intermingled in the ordi-
nary exercise of government, the more the citizens
are accustomed to meet with it in the common oc-
currences of their political life, the more it is familiar-
ized to their sight and to their feelings, the further

214 Alexander Hamilton

it enters into those objects which touch the most
sensible chords and put in motion the most active
springs of the human heart, the greater will be the
probability that it will conciliate the respect and at-
tachment of the community. Man is very much a
creature of habit. A thing that rarely strikes his
senses will generally have but little influence upon
his mind. A government continually at a distance
and out of sight can hardly be expected to interest
the sensations of the people. The inference is, that
the authority of the Union, and the affections of the
citizens towards it, will be strengthened, rather than
weakened, by its extension to what are called matters
of internal concern; and will have less occasion to
recur to force, in proportion to the familiarity and
comprehensiveness of its agency. The more it cir-
culates through those channels and currents in which
the passions of mankind naturally flow, the less will
it require the aid of the violent and perilous expe-
dients of compulsion.

One thing, at all events, must be evident, that a
government like the one proposed would bid much
fairer to avoid the necessity of using force, than that
species of league contended for by most of its oppo-
nents; the authority of which should only operate
upon the States in their political or collective capa-
cities. It has been shown that in such a Confeder-
acy there can be no sanction for the laws but force ;
that frequent delinquencies in the members are the
natural offspring of the very frame of the govern-
ment; and that as often as these happen, they can
only be redressed, if at all, by war and violence.

The Federalist 215

The plan reported by the convention, by extend-
ing the authority of the federal head to the individual
citizens of the several States, will enable the govern-
ment to employ the ordinary magistracy of each, in
the execution of its laws. It is easy to perceive that
this will tend to destroy, in the common apprehen-
sion, all distinction between the sources from which
they might proceed; and will give the federal gov-
ernment the same advantage for securing a due
obedience to its authority which is enjoyed by the
government of each State, in addition to the influence
on public opinion which will result from the im-
portant consideration of its having power to call to
its assistance and support the resources of the whole
Union. It merits particular attention in this place,
that the laws of the Confederacy, as to the enumerated
and legitimate objects of its jurisdiction, will become
the supreme law of the land; to the observance of
which all officers, legislative, executive, and judicial,
in each State, will be bound by the sanctity of an
oath. Thus the legislatures, courts, and magis-
trates, of the respective members, will be incorpo-
rated into the operations of the national government
as far as its just and constitutional authority extends;
and will be rendered auxiliary to the enforcement
of its laws.1 Any man who will pursue, by his own
reflections, the consequences of this situation, will
perceive that there is good ground to calculate upon
a regular and peaceable execution of the laws of the

1 The sophistry which has been employed, to show that this will
tend to the destruction of the State governments, will, in its proper
place, be fully detected. — Publius.

216 Alexander Hamilton

Union, if its powers are administered with a com-
mon share of prudence. If we will arbitrarily sup-
pose the contrary, we may deduce any inferences we
please from the supposition ; for it is certainly possi-
ble, by an injudicious exercise of the authorities of
the best government that ever was, or ever can be
instituted, to provoke and precipitate the people
into the wildest excesses. But though the adver-
saries of the proposed Constitution should presume
that the national rulers would be insensible to the
motives of public good, or to the obligations of duty,
I would still ask them how the interests of ambition,
or the views of encroachment, can be promoted by
such a conduct?

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXVIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

That there may happen cases in which the na-
tional government may be necessitated to resort to
force, cannot be denied. Our own experience has
corroborated the lessons taught by the examples
of other nations; that emergencies of this sort will
sometimes arise in all societies, however constituted ;
that seditions and insurrections are, unhappily,
maladies as inseparable from the body politic as
tumors and eruptions from the natural body; that
the idea of governing at all times by the simple force
of law (which we have been told is the only admis-

The Federalist 217

sible principle of republican government), has no
place but in the reveries of those political doctors
whose sagacity disdains the admonitions of experi-
mental instruction.

Should such emergencies at any time happen
under the national government, there could be no
remedy but force. The means to be employed must
be proportioned to the extent of the mischief. If it
should be a slight commotion in a small part of a
State, the militia of the residue would be adequate
to its suppression; and the natural presumption is
that they would be ready to do their duty. An in-
surrection, whatever may be its immediate cause,
eventually endangers all government. Regard to
the public peace, if not to the rights of the Union,
would engage the citizens to whom the contagion
had not communicated itself to oppose the insur-
gents; and if the general government should be
found in practice conducive to the prosperity and
felicity of the people, it were irrational to believe
that they would be disinclined to its support.

If, on the contrary, the insurrection should per-
vade a whole State, or a principal part of it, the em-
ployment of a different kind of force might become
unavoidable. It appears that Massachusetts found it
necessary to raise troops for repressing the disorders
within that State ; that Pennsylvania, from the mere
apprehension of commotions among a part of her
citizens, has thought proper to have recourse to the
same measure. Suppose the State of New York had
been inclined to re-establish her lost jurisdiction
over the inhabitants of Vermont, could she have

218 Alexander Hamilton

hoped for success in such an enterprise from the
efforts of the militia alone? Would she not have
been compelled to raise and to maintain a more
regular force for the execution of her design? If it
must then be admitted that the necessity of recurring
to a force different from the militia, in cases of this
extraordinary nature, is applicable to the State gov-
ernments themselves, why should the possibility,
that the national government might be under a like
necessity, in similar extremities, be made an objec-
tion to its existence? Is it not surprising that men
who declare an attachment to the Union in the ab-
stract, should urge as an objection to the proposed
Constitution what applies with tenfold weight to
the plan for which they contend; and what, as far
as it has any foundation in truth, is an inevitable
consequence of civil society upon an enlarged scale?
Who would not prefer that possibility to the un-
ceasing agitations and frequent revolutions which
are the continual scourges of petty republics?

Let us pursue this examination in another light.
Suppose, in lieu of one general system, two, or three,
or even four Confederacies were to be formed, would
not the same difficulty oppose itself to the operations
of either of these Confederacies? Would not each
of them be exposed to the same casualties; and
when these happened, be obliged to have recourse
to the same expedients for upholding its authority
which are objected to in a government for all the
States? Would the militia, in this supposition, be
more ready or more able to support the federal au-
thority than in the case of a general union? All

The Federalist 219

candid and intelligent men must, upon due considera-
tion, acknowledge that the principle of the objection
is equally applicable to either of the two cases; and
that whether we have one government for all the
States, or different governments for different parcels
of them, or even if there should be an entire separa-
tion of the States,1 there might sometimes be a
necessity to make use of a force constituted differ-
ently from the militia, to preserve the peace of the
community and to maintain the just authority of
the laws against those violent invasions of them
which amount to insurrections and rebellions.

Independent of all other reasonings upon the sub-
ject, it is a full answer to those who require a more
peremptory provision against military establishments
in time of peace, to say that the whole power of the
proposed government is to be in the hands of the
representatives of the people. This is the essential,
and, after all, only efficacious security for the rights
and privileges of the people, which is attainable in
civil society.2

If the representatives of the people betray their
constituents, there is then no resource left but in the
exertion of that original right of self-defence which
is paramount to all positive forms of government,
and which against the usurpations of the national
rulers, may be exerted with infinitely better pros-
pect of success than against those of the rulers of an
individual state. In a single state, if the persons

1 In the revised text, "or if there should be as many unconnected
governments as there are States."

2 Its full efficacy will be examined hereafter. — Publius.

220 Alexander Hamilton

intrusted with supreme power become usurpers, the
different parcels, subdivisions, or districts of which
it consists, having no distinct government in each,
can take no regular measures for defence. The citi-
zens must rush tumultuously to arms, without con-
cert, without system, without resource; except in
their courage and despair. The usurpers, clothed
with the forms of legal authority, can too often crush
the opposition in embryo. The smaller the extent
of the territory, the more difficult will it be for the
people to form a regular or systematic plan of oppo-
sition, and the more easy will it be to defeat their
early efforts. Intelligence can be more speedily ob-
tained of their preparations and movements, and
the military force in the possession of the usurpers
can be more rapidly directed against the part where
the opposition has begun. In this situation there
must be a peculiar coincidence of circumstances to
insure success to the popular resistance.

The obstacles to usurpation and the facilities of
resistance increase with the increased extent of the
state, provided the citizens understand their rights
and are disposed to defend them. The natural
strength of the people in a large community, in pro-
portion to the artificial strength of the government,
is greater than in a small, and of course more
competent to a struggle with the attempts of the
government to establish a tyranny. But in a con-
federacy the people, without exaggeration, may be
said to be entirely the masters of their own fate.
Power being almost always the rival of power, the
general government will at all times stand ready to

The Federalist 221

check the usurpations of the state governments, and
these will have the same disposition towards the
general government. The people, by throwing
themselves into either scale, will infallibly make it
preponderate. If their rights are invaded by either,
they can make use of the other as the instrument of
redress. How wise will it be in them by cherishing
the union to preserve to themselves an advantage
which can never be too highly prized !

It may safely be received as an axiom in our po-
litical system, that the State governments will, in
all possible contingencies, afford complete security
against invasions of the public liberty by the na-
tional authority. Projects of usurpation cannot be
masked under pretences so likely to escape the pene-
tration of select bodies of men, as of the people at
large. The legislatures will have better means of
information. They can discover the danger at a
distance; and possessing all the organs of civil
power, and the confidence of the people, they can at
once adopt a regular plan of opposition, in which
they can combine all the resources of the community.
They can readily communicate with each other in
the different States, and unite their common forces
for the protection of their common liberty.

The great extent of the country is a further secur-
ity. We have already experienced its utility against
the attacks of a foreign power. And it would have
precisely the same effect against the enterprises of
ambitious rulers in the national councils. If the
federal army should be able to quell the resistance
of one State, the distant States would have it in their

222 Alexander Hamilton

power to make head with fresh forces. The advan-
tages obtained in one place must be abandoned to
subdue the opposition in others; and the moment
the part which had been reduced to submission was
left to itself, its efforts would be renewed, and its
resistance revive.

We should recollect that the extent of the military
force must, at all events, be regulated by the re-
sources of the country. For a long time to come, it
will not be possible to maintain a large army; and
as the means of doing this increase, the population
and natural strength of the community will pro-
portionably increase. When will the time arrive
that the federal government can raise and maintain
an army capable of erecting a despotism over the
great body of the people of an immense empire, who
are in a situation, through the medium of their State
governments, to take measures for their own de-
fence, with all the celerity, regularity, and system of
independent nations? The apprehension may be
considered as a disease, for which there can be found
no cure in the resources of argument and reasoning.

Publius.

From the Daily Advertiser, Thursday, January 10, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXIX l

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The power of regulating the militia, and of com-
manding its services in times of insurrection and

1 This essay appeared as No. XXXV. in the original publication in
the newspapers, and is therefore here misplaced chronologically. In

The Federalist 223

invasion are natural incidents to the duties of super-
intending the common defence, and of watching over
the internal peace of the Confederacy.

It requires no skill in the science of war to discern
that uniformity in the organization and discipline
of the militia would be attended with the most
beneficial effects, whenever they were called into ser-
vice for the public defence. It would enable them
to discharge the duties of the camp and of the field
with mutual intelligence and concert — an advantage
of peculiar moment in the operations of an army;
and it would fit them much sooner to acquire the
degree of proficiency in military functions which
would be essential to their usefulness. This desire-
able uniformity can only be accomplished by con-
fiding the regulation of the militia to the direction
of the national authority. It is, therefore, with the
most evident propriety, that the plan of the con-
vention proposes to empower the Union " to provide
for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia,
and for governing such part of them as may be em-
ployed in the service of the United States, reserving
to the States respectively the appointment of the officers,
and the authority of training the militia according to
the discipline prescribed by Congress."

Of the different grounds which have been taken in
opposition to the plan of the convention, there is
none that was so little to have been expected, or
is so untenable in itself, as the one from which this

the first edition of 1788, however, it is printed as No. XXIX., which
gives it its proper place according to subject, and for this reason the
order of the first edition has been followed.

224 Alexander Hamilton

particular provision has been attacked. If a well-
regulated militia be the most natural defence of a free
country, it ought certainly to be under the regula-
tion and at the disposal of that body which is con-
stituted the guardian of the national security. If
standing armies are dangerous to liberty, an effica-
cious power over the militia, in the body to whose
care the protection of the State is committed, ought,
as far as possible, to take away the inducement and
the pretext to such unfriendly institutions. If the
federal government can command the aid of the
militia in those emergencies which call for the military
arm in support of the civil magistrate, it can the
better dispense with the employment of a different
kind of force. If it cannot avail itself of the former,
it will be obliged to recur to the latter. To render
an army unnecessary, will be a more certain method
of preventing its existence than a thousand pro-
hibitions upon paper.

In order to cast an odium upon the power of call-
ing forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union,
it has been remarked that there is nowhere any pro-
vision in the proposed Constitution for calling out the
posse comitatus, to assist the magistrate in the
execution of his duty; whence it has been inferred,
that military force was intended to be his only aux-
iliary. There is a striking incoherence in the ob-
jections which have appeared, and sometimes even
from the same quarter, not much calculated to in-
spire a very favorable opinion of the sincerity or fair
dealing of their authors. The same persons who tell
us in one breath, that the powers of the federal gov-

The Federalist 225

ernment will be despotic and unlimited, inform us in
the next, that it has not authority sufficient even to
call out the posse comitatus. The latter, fortu-
nately, is as much short of the truth as the former
exceeds it. It would be as absurd to doubt, that a
right to pass all laws necessary and proper to execute
its declared powers, would include that of requiring
the assistance of the citizens to the officers who may
be intrusted with the execution of those laws, as it
would be to believe, that a right to enact laws neces-
sary and proper for the imposition and collection of
taxes would involve that of varying the rules of
descent and of the alienation of landed property, or
of abolishing the trial by jury in cases relating to it.
It being therefore evident that the supposition of a
want of power to require the aid of the posse comi-
tatus is entirely destitute of color, it will follow,
that the conclusion which has been drawn from it,
in its application to the authority of the federal gov-
ernment over the militia, is as uncandid as it is il-
logical. What reason could there be to infer, that
force was intended to be the sole instrument of au-
thority, merely because there is a power to make use
of it when necessary? What shall we think of the
motives which could induce men of sense to reason
in this manner? How shall we prevent a conflict
between charity and judgment?

By a curious refinement upon the spirit of repub-
lican jealousy, we are even taught to apprehend
danger from the militia itself, in the hands of the
federal government. It is observed that select corps
may be formed, composed of the young and ardent,

VOL. XI.— 15.

226 Alexander Hamilton

who may be rendered subservient to the views of
arbitrary power. What plan for the regulation of
the militia may be pursued by the national govern-
ment, is impossible to be foreseen. But so far from
viewing the matter in the same light with those who
object to select corps as dangerous, were the Con-
stitution ratified, and were I to deliver my sentiments
to a member of the federal legislature from this State
on the subject of a militia establishment, I should
hold to him, in substance, the following discourse:

"The project of disciplining all the militia of the
United States is as futile as it would be injurious, if
it were capable of being carried into execution. A
tolerable expertness in military movements is a
business that requires time and practice. It is not
a day, or even a week, that will suffice for the at-
tainment of it. To oblige the great body of the yeo-
manry, and of the other classes of the citizens, to be
under arms for the purpose of going through military
exercises and evolutions, as often as might be neces-
sary to acquire the degree of perfection which would
entitle them to the character of a well-regulated
militia, would be a real grievance to the people, and
a serious public inconvenience and loss. It would
form an annual deduction from the productive labor
of the country, to an amount which, calculating upon
the present numbers of the people, would not fall
far short of the whole expense of the civil establish-
ments of all the States. To attempt a thing which
would abridge the mass of labor and industry to so
considerable an extent, would be unwise: and the
experiment, it made, could not succeed, because it

The Federalist 227

would not long be endured. Little more can reason-
ably be aimed at, with respect to the people at large,
than to have them properly armed and equipped;
and in order to see that this be not neglected, it will
be necessary to assemble them once or twice in the
course of a year.

" But though the scheme of disciplining the whole
nation must be abandoned as mischievous or im-
practicable ; yet it is a matter of the utmost impor-
tance that a well-digested plan should, as soon as
possible, be adopted for the proper establishment of
the militia. The attention of the government ought
particularly to be directed to the formation of a
select corps of moderate extent, upon such prin-
ciples as will really fit them for service in case of
need. By thus circumscribing the plan, it will be
possible to have an excellent body of well-trained
militia, ready to take the field whenever the defence
of the State shall require it. This will not only lessen
the call for military establishments, but if circum-
stances should at any time oblige the government to
form an army of any magnitude that army can never
be formidable to the liberties of the people while
there is a large body of citizens, little, if at all, in-
ferior to them in discipline and the use of arms, who
stand ready to defend their own rights and those of
their fellow-citizens. This appears to me the only
substitute that can be devised for a standing army,
and the best possible security against it, if it should
exist. ' '

Thus differently from the adversaries of the pro-
posed Constitution should I reason on the same sub-

228 Alexander Hamilton

ject, deducing arguments of safety from the very
sources which they represent as fraught with danger
and perdition. But how the national legislature
may reason on the point, is a thing which neither
they nor I can foresee.

There is something so far-fetched and so extrava-
gant in the idea of danger to liberty from the militia,
that one is at a loss whether to treat it with gravity
or with raillery; whether to consider it as a mere
trial of skill, like the paradoxes of rhetoricians ; as a
disingenuous artifice to instil prejudices at any price ;
or as the serious offspring of political fanaticism.
Where, in the name of common-sense, are our fears
to end if we may not trust our sons, our brothers,
our neighbors, our fellow-citizens? What shadow
of danger can there be from men who are daily min-
gling with the rest of their countrymen, and who par-
ticipate with them in the same feelings, sentiments,
habits, and interests? What reasonable cause of
apprehension can be inferred from a power in the
Union to prescribe regulations for the militia, and to
command its services when necessary, while the
particular States are to have the sole and exclusive
appointment of the officers ? If it were possible seri-
ously to indulge a jealousy of the militia upon any
conceivable establishment under the federal govern-
ment, the circumstance of the officers being in the
appointment of the States ought at once to extin-
guish it. There can be no doubt that this circum-
stance will always secure to them a preponderating
influence over the militia.

In reading many of the publications against the

The Federalist 229

Constitution, a man is apt to imagine that he is
perusing some ill- written tale or romance, which,
instead of natural and agreeable images, exhibits
to the mind nothing but frightful and distorted
shapes —

"Gorgons, hydras, and chimeras dire";

discoloring and disfiguring whatever it represents,
and transforming every thing it touches into a
monster.

A sample of this is to be observed in the exagger-
ated and improbable suggestions which have taken
place respecting the power of calling for the ser-
vices of the militia. That of New Hampshire is to
be marched to Georgia, of Georgia to New Hamp-
shire, of New York to Kentucky, and of Kentucky
to Lake Champlain. Nay, the debts due to the
French and Dutch are to be paid in militiamen in-
stead of louis d'ors and ducats. At one moment
there is to be a large army to lay prostrate the liber-
ties of the people ; at another moment the militia of
Virginia are to be dragged from their homes five or
six hundred miles, to tame the republican contu-
macy of Massachusetts; and that of Massachusetts
is to be transported an equal distance to subdue the
refractory haughtiness of the aristocratic Virginians.
Do the persons who rave at this rate imagine that
their art or their eloquence can impose any conceits
or absurdities upon the people of America for in-
fallible truths?

If there should be an army to be made use of as
the engine of despotism, what need of the militia?
If there should be no army, whither would the militia,

230 Alexander Hamilton

irritated by being called upon to undertake a distant
and hopeless expedition, for the purpose of riveting
the chains of slavery upon a part of their country-
men, direct their course, but to the seat of the ty-
rants, who had meditated so foolish as well as so
wicked a project, to crush them in their imagined
intrenchments of power, and to make them an ex-
ample of the just vengeance of an abused and in-
censed people? Is this the way in which usurpers
stride to dominion over a numerous and enlightened
nation? Do they begin by exciting the detestation
of the very instruments of their intended usurpa-
tions? Do they usually commence their career by
wanton and disgustful acts of power, calculated to
answer no end, but to draw upon themselves uni-
versal hatred and execration? Are suppositions of
this sort the sober admonitions of discerning patriots
to a discerning people? Or are they the inflamma-
tory ravings of incendiaries or distempered enthu-
siasts? If we were even to suppose the national
rulers actuated by the most ungovernable ambi-
tion, it is impossible to believe that they would em-
ploy such preposterous means to accomplish their
designs.

In times of insurrection, or invasion, it would be
natural and proper that the militia of a neighboring
State should be marched into another, to resist a
common enemy, or to guard the republic against the
violence of faction or sedition. This was frequently
the case, in respect to the first object, in the course
of the late war; and this mutual succor is, indeed, a
principal end of our political association. If the

The Federalist 231

power of affording it be placed under the direction
of the Union, there will be no danger of a supine and
listless inattention to the dangers of a neighbor, till
its near approach had superadded the incitements
of self-preservation to the too feeble impulses of duty
and sympathy.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, December 28, 1787
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXX

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It has been already observed that the federal gov-
ernment ought to possess the power of providing for
the support of the national forces ; in which proposi-
tion was intended to be included the expense of
raising troops, of building and equipping fleets, and
all other expenses in any wise connected with mili-
tary arrangements and operations. But these are
not the only objects to which the jurisdiction of the
Union, in respect to revenue, must necessarily be
empowered to extend. It must embrace a provi-
sion for the support of the national civil list ; for the
payment of the national debts contracted, or that
may be contracted; and, in general, for all those
matters which will call for disbursements out of the
national treasury. The conclusion is, that there
must be interwoven, in the frame of the government,
a general power of taxation, in one shape or another.

Money is, with propriety, considered as the vital
principle of the body politic; as that which sustains

232 Alexander Hamilton

its life and motion, and enables it to perform its most
essential functions. A complete power, therefore,
to procure a regular and adequate supply of it, as
far as the resources of the community will permit,
may be regarded as an indispensable ingredient in
every constitution. From a deficiency in this par-
ticular, one of two evils must ensue : either the people
must be subjected to continual plunder, as a substi-
tute for a more eligible mode of supplying the public
wants, or the government must sink into a fatal
atrophy, and, in a short course of time, perish.

In the Ottoman or Turkish empire, the sovereign,
though in other respects absolute master of the lives
and fortunes of his subjects, has no right to impose
a new tax. The consequence is that he permits the
bashaws or governors of provinces to pillage the
people without mercy ; and, in turn, squeezes out of
them the sums of which he stands in need, to satisfy
his own exigencies and those of the state. In Amer-
ica, from a like cause, the government of the Union
has gradually dwindled into a state of decay, ap-
proaching nearly to annihilation. Who can doubt,
that the happiness cf the people in both countries
would be promoted by competent authorities in the
proper hands, to provide the revenues which the
necessities of the public might require?

The present Confederation, feeble as it is, in-
tended to repose in the United States an unlimited
power of providing for the pecuniary wants of the
Union. But proceeding upon an erroneous prin-
ciple, it has been done in such a manner as entirely
to have frustrated the intention. Congress, by the

The Federalist 233

articles which compose that compact (as has already-
been stated), are authorized to ascertain and call for
any sums of money necessary, in their judgment, to
the service of the United States; and their requisi-
tions, if conformable to the rule of apportionment,
are in every constitutional sense obligatory upon the
States. These have no right to question the pro-
priety of the demand; no discretion beyond that of
devising the ways and means of furnishing the sums
demanded. But though this be strictly and truly
the case; though the assumption of such a right
would be an infringement of the articles of Union;
though it may seldom or never have been avowedly
claimed, yet in practice it has been constantly exer-
cised, and would continue to be so, as long as the
revenues of the Confederacy should remain depend-
ent on the intermediate agency of its members.
What the consequences of this system have been, is
within the knowledge of every man the least con-
versant in our public affairs, and has been amply
unfolded in different parts of these inquiries. It is
this which has chiefly contributed to reduce us to a
situation, which affords ample cause both of morti-
fication to ourselves, and of triumph to our enemies.
What remedy can there be for this situation, but
in a change of the system which has produced it —
in a change of the fallacious and delusive system of
quotas and requisitions ? What substitute can there
be imagined for this ignis fatuus in finance, but that
of permitting the national government to raise its
own revenues by the ordinary methods of taxation
authorized in every well-ordered constitution of

234 Alexander Hamilton

civil government? Ingenious men may declaim
with plausibility on any subject; but no human in-
genuity can point out any other expedient to rescue
us from the inconveniences and embarrassments
naturally resulting from defective supplies of the
public treasury.

The more intelligent adversaries of the new Con-
stitution admit the force of this reasoning ; but they
qualify their admission by a distinction between
what they call internal and external taxation. The
former they would reserve to the State governments ;
the latter, which they explain into commercial im-
posts, or rather duties on imported articles, they
declare themselves willing to concede to the federal
head. This distinction, however, would violate the
maxim of good sense and sound policy, which dic-
tates that every power ought to be in proportion to
its object ; and would still leave the general govern-
ment in a kind of tutelage to the State governments,
inconsistent with every idea of vigor or efficiency.
Who can pretend that commercial imposts are, or
would be, alone equal to the present and future exi-
gencies of the Union? Taking into the account the
existing debt, foreign and domestic, upon any plan
of extinguishment which a man moderately im-
pressed with the importance of public justice and
public credit could approve, in addition to the es-
tablishments which all parties will acknowledge to be
necessary, we could not reasonably flatter ourselves,
that this resource alone, upon the most improved
scale, would even suffice for its present necessities.
Its future necessities admit not of calculation or

The Federalist 235

limitation; and upon the principle, more than once
adverted to, the power of making provision for them
as they arise ought to be equally unconfmed. I
believe it may be regarded as a position warranted
by the history of mankind, that, in the usual pro-
gress of things, the necessities of a nation, in every
stage of its existence, will be found at least equal to
its resources.

To say that deficiencies may be provided for by
requisitions upon the States, is on the one hand to
acknowledge that this system cannot be depended
upon, and on the other hand to depend upon it for
every thing beyond a certain limit. Those who have
carefully attended to its vices and deformities as
they have been exhibited by experience or delineated
in the course of these papers, must feel invincible
repugnancy to trusting the national interests in any
degree to its operation. Its inevitable tendency,
whenever it is brought into activity, must be to en-
feeble the Union, and sow the seeds of discord and
contention between the federal head and its mem-
bers, and between the members themselves. Can it
be expected that the deficiencies would be better
supplied in this mode than the total wants of the
Union have heretofore been supplied in the same
mode? It ought to be recollected that if less will be
required from the States, they will have proportion-
ably less means to answer the demand. If the
opinions of those who contend for the distinction
which has been mentioned were to be received as
evidence of truth, one would be led to conclude that
there was some known point in the economy of

236 Alexander Hamilton

national affairs at which it would be safe to stop and
to say: Thus far the ends of public happiness will
be promoted by supplying the wants of government,
and all beyond this is unworthy of our care or
anxiety. How is it possible that a government
half supplied and always necessitous, can fulfil the
purposes of its institution, can provide for the secur-
ity, advance the prosperity, or support the reputa-
tion of the commonwealth ? How can it ever possess
either energy or stability, dignity or credit, con-
fidence at home or respectability abroad? How
can its administration be any thing else than a suc-
cession of expedients temporizing, impotent, dis-
graceful? How will it be able to avoid a frequent
sacrifice of its engagements to immediate necessity?
How can it undertake or execute any liberal or en-
larged plans of public good?

Let us attend to what would be the effects of this
situation in the very first war in which we should
happen to be engaged. We will presume, for argu-
ment's sake, that the revenue arising from the im-
post duties answers the purposes of a provision for
the public debt and of a peace establishment for the
Union. Thus circumstanced, a war breaks out.
What would be the probable conduct of the govern-
ment in such an emergency? Taught by experience
that proper dependence could not be placed on the
success of requisitions, unable by its own authority
to lay hold of fresh resources, and urged by con-
siderations of national danger, would it not be
driven to the expedient of diverting the funds al-
ready appropriated from their proper objects to the

The Federalist 237

defence of the State? It is not easy to see how a
step of this kind could be avoided; and if it should
be taken, it is evident that it would prove the de-
struction of public credit at the very moment that
it was becoming essential to the public safety. To
imagine that at such a crisis credit might be dispensed
with, would be the extreme of infatuation. In the
modern system of war, nations the most wealthy are
obliged to have recourse to large loans. A country
so little opulent as ours must feel this necessity in a
much stronger degree. But who would lend to a
government that prefaced its overtures for borrow-
ing by an act which demonstrated that no reliance
could be placed on the steadiness of its measures for
paying? The loans it might be able to procure
would be as limited in their extent as burdensome in
their conditions. They would be made upon the
same principles that usurers commonly lend to
bankrupt and fraudulent debtors, — with a sparing
hand at enormous premiums.

It may perhaps be imagined that, from the scanti-
ness of the resources of the country, the necessity of
diverting the established funds in the case supposed
would exist, though the national government should
possess an unrestrained power of taxation. But
two considerations will serve to quiet all apprehen-
sion on this head: one is, that we are sure the re-
sources of the community, in their full extent, will
be brought into activity for the benefit of the Union ;
the other is, that whatever deficiencies there may
be, can without difficulty be supplied by loans.

The power of creating new funds upon new ob-

238 Alexander Hamilton

jects of taxation, by its own authority, would enable
the national government to borrow as far as its
necessities might require. Foreigners, as well as the
citizens of America, could then reasonably repose
confidence in its engagements; but to depend upon
a government that must itself depend upon thirteen
other governments for the means of fulfilling its con-
tracts, when once its situation is clearly understood,
would require a degree of credulity not often to be
met with in the pecuniary transactions of mankind,
and little reconcilable with the usual sharp-sighted-
ness of avarice.

Reflections of this kind may have trifling weight
with men who hope to see realized in America the
halcyon scenes of the poetic or fabulous age; but to
those who believe we are likely to experience a com-
mon portion of the vicissitudes and calamities which
have fallen to the lot of other nations, they must
appear entitled to serious attention. Such men
must behold the actual situation of their country
with painful solicitude, and deprecate the evils
which ambition or revenge might, with too much

facility, inflict upon it.

Publius.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, January 1, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

In disquisitions of every kind, there are certain
primary truths, or first principles, upon which all

The Federalist 239

subsequent reasonings must depend. These contain
an internal evidence which, antecedent to all re-
flection or combination, commands the assent of the
mind. Where it produces not this effect, it must
proceed either from some defect or disorder in the
organs of perception, or from the influence of some
strong interest, or passion, or prejudice. Of this
nature are the maxims in geometry, that " the whole
is greater than its part ; things equal to the same are
equal to one another; two straight lines cannot en-
close a space; and all right angles are equal to each
other." Of the same nature are these other maxims
in ethics and politics, that there cannot be an effect
without a cause; that the means ought to be pro-
portioned to the end ; that every power ought to be
commensurate with its object; that there ought to
be no limitation of a power destined to effect a pur-
pose which is itself incapable of limitation. And
there are other truths in the two latter sciences
which, if they cannot pretend to rank in the class
of axioms, are yet such direct inferences from them,
and so obvious in themselves, and so agreeable to
the natural and unsophisticated dictates of common-
sense, that they challenge the assent of a sound
and unbiased mind, with a degree of force and con-
viction almost equally irresistible.

The objects of geometrical inquiry are so entirely
abstracted from those pursuits which stir up and
put in motion the unruly passions of the human
heart, that mankind, without difficulty, adopt not
only the more simple theorems of the science, but
even those abstruse paradoxes which, however they

240 Alexander Hamilton

may appear susceptible of demonstration, are at
variance with the natural conceptions which the
mind, without the aid of philosophy, would be led
to entertain upon the subject. The infinite divisi-
bility of matter, or, in other words, the infinite
divisibility of a finite thing, extending even to the
minutest atom, is a point agreed among geometri-
cians, though not less incomprehensible to common-
sense than any of those mysteries in religion, against
which the batteries of infidelity have been so indus-
triously levelled.

But in the sciences of morals and politics, men
are found far less tractable. To a certain degree, it
is right and useful that this should be the case.
Caution and investigation are a necessary armor
against error and imposition. But this untractable-
ness may be carried too far, and may degenerate
into obstinacy, perverseness, or disingenuity. Though
it cannot be pretended that the principles of moral
and political knowledge have, in general, the same
degree of certainty with those of the mathematics,
yet they have much better claims in this respect
than, to judge from the conduct of men in particular
situations, we should be disposed to allow them.
The obscurity is much oftener in the passions and
prejudices of the reasoner than in the subject. Men,
upon too many occasions, do not give their own
understandings fair play; but, yielding to some un-
toward bias, they entangle themselves in words and
confound themselves in subtleties.

How else could it happen (if we admit the objec-
tors to be sincere in their opposition), that positions

The Federalist 241

so clear as those which manifest the necessity of a
general power of taxation in the government of the
Union, should have to encounter any adversaries
among men of discernment ? Though these positions
have been elsewhere fully stated, they will perhaps
not be improperly recapitulated in this place, as in-
troductory to an examination of what may have
been offered by way of objection to them. They
are in substance as follows:

A government ought to contain in itself every
power requisite to the full accomplishment of the
objects committed to its care, and to the complete
execution of the trusts for which it is responsible,
free from every other control but a regard to the
public good and to the sense of the people.

As the duties of superintending the national de-
fence and of securing the public peace against
foreign or domestic violence involve a provision
for casualties and dangers to which no possible
limits can be assigned, the power of making that
provision ought to know no other bounds than the
exigencies of the nation and the resources of the
community.

As revenue is the essential engine by which the
means of answering the national exigencies must be
procured, the power of procuring that article in its
full extent must necessarily be comprehended in
that of providing for those exigencies.

As theory and practice conspire to prove that
the power of procuring revenue is unavailing when
exercised over the States in their collective capaci-
ties, the federal government must of necessity be

VOL. XI.— 16.

242 Alexander Hamilton

invested with an unqualified power of taxation in the
ordinary modes.

Did not experience evince the contrary, it would
be natural to conclude that the propriety of a gen-
eral power of taxation in the national government
might safely be permitted to rest on the evidence of
these propositions, unassisted by any additional ar-
guments or illustrations. But we find, in fact, that
the antagonists of the proposed Constitution, so far
from acquiescing in their justness or truth, seem to
make their principal and most zealous effort against
this part of the plan. It may therefore be satis-
factory to analyze the arguments with which they
combat it.

Those of them which have been most labored with
that view, seem in substance to amount to this: " It
is not true, because the exigencies of the Union may
not be susceptible of limitation, that its power of
laying taxes ought to be unconfined. Revenue is as
requisite to the purposes of the local administrations
as to those of the Union ; and the former are at least
of equal importance with the latter to the happiness
of the people. It is, therefore, as necessary that the
State governments should be able to command the
means of supplying their wants, as that the national
government should possess the like faculty in re-
spect to the wants of the Union. But an indefinite
power of taxation in the latter might, and probably
would in time, deprive the former of the means of
providing for their own necessities; and would sub-
ject them entirely to the mercy of the national legis-
lature. As the laws of the Union are to become the

The Federalist 243

supreme law of the land, as it is to have power to
pass all laws that may be necessary for carrying
into execution the authorities with which it is pro-
posed to vest it, the national government might at
any time abolish the taxes imposed for State objects
upon the pretence of an interference with its own.
It might allege a necessity of doing this in order to
give efficacy to the national revenues. And thus
all the resources of taxation might by degrees be-
come the subjects of federal monopoly, to the entire
exclusion and destruction of the State governments."
This mode of reasoning appears sometimes to
turn upon the supposition of usurpation in the na-
tional government; at other times it seems to be
designed only as a deduction from the constitutional
operation of its intended powers. It is only in the
latter light that it can be admitted to have any pre-
tensions to fairness. The moment we launch into
conjectures about the usurpations of the federal
government, we get into an unfathomable abyss,
and fairly put ourselves out of the reach of all reason-
ing. Imagination may range at pleasure till it gets
bewildered amidst the labyrinths of an enchanted
castle, and knows not on which side to turn to ex-
tricate itself from the perplexities into which it has
so rashly adventured. Whatever may be the limits
or modifications of the powers of the Union, it is
easy to imagine an endless train of possible dangers;
and by indulging an excess of jealousy and timidity,
we may bring ourselves to a state of absolute scepti-
cism and irresolution. I repeat here what I have
observed in substance in another place, that all

244 Alexander Hamilton

observations founded upon the danger of usurpation
ought to be referred to the composition and structure
of the government, not to the nature or extent of
its powers. The State governments, by their origi-
nal constitutions, are invested with complete sov-
ereignty. In what does our security consist against
usurpation from that quarter? Doubtless in the
manner of their formation, and in a due dependence
of those who are to administer them upon the people.
If the proposed construction of the federal govern-
ment be found, upon an impartial examination of it,
to be such as to afford, to a proper extent, the same
species of security, all apprehensions on the score of
usurpation ought to be discarded.

It should not be forgotten that a disposition in
the State governments to encroach upon the rights
of the Union is quite as probable as a disposition in
the Union to encroach upon the rights of the State
governments. What side would be likely to prevail
in such a conflict, must depend on the means which
the contending parties could employ towards insur-
ing success. As in republics strength is always on
the side of the people, and as there are weighty rea-
sons to induce a belief that the State governments
will commonly possess most influence over them, the
natural conclusion is that such contests will be most
apt to end to the disadvantage of the Union; and
that there is greater probability of encroachments
by the members upon the federal head, than by the
federal head upon the members. But it is evident
that all conjectures of this kind must be extremely
vague and fallible: and that it is by far the safest

The Federalist 245

course to lay them altogether aside, and to confine
our attention wholly to the nature and extent of the
powers as they are delineated in the Constitution.
Every thing beyond this must be left to the pru-
dence and firmness of the people; who, as they will
hold the scales in their own hands, it is to be hoped,
will always take care to preserve the constitutional
equilibrium between the general and the State gov-
ernments. Upon this ground, which is evidently
the true one, it will not be difficult to obviate the
objections which have been made to an indefinite
power of taxation in the United States.

Publius.

From the Daily Advertiser, Thursday, January 3, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Although I am of opinion that there would be no
real danger of the consequences which seem to be
apprehended to the State governments from a power
in the Union to control them in the levies of money,
because I am persuaded that the sense of the people,
the extreme hazard of provoking the resentments
of the State governments, and a conviction of the
utility and necessity of local administrations for
local purposes, would be a complete barrier against
the oppressive use of such a power ; yet I am willing
here to allow, in its full extent, the justness of the
reasoning which requires that the individual States
should possess an independent and uncontrollable

246 Alexander Hamilton

authority to raise their own revenues for the supply
of their own wants. And making this concession, I
affirm that (with the sole exception of duties on
imports and exports) they would, under the plan of
the convention, retain that authority in the most ab-
solute and unqualified sense; and that an attempt
on the part of the national government to abridge
them in the exercise of it, would be a violent assump-
tion of power, unwarranted by any article or clause
of its Constitution.

An entire consolidation of the States into one
complete national sovereignty would imply an entire
subordination of the parts; and whatever powers
might remain in them, would be altogether dependent
on the general will. But as the plan of the conven-
tion aims only at a partial union or consolidation,
the State governments would clearly retain all the
rights of sovereignty which they before had, and
which were not, by that act, exclusively delegated
to the United States. This exclusive delegation, or
rather this alienation, of State sovereignty, would
only exist in three cases : where the Constitution in
express terms granted an exclusive authority to the
Union; where it granted in one instance an author-
ity to the Union, and in another prohibited the States
from exercising the like authority; and where it
granted an authority to the Union, to which a similar
authority in the States would be absolutely and
totally contradictory and repugnant. I use these
terms to distinguish this last case from another
which might appear to resemble it, but which would,
in fact, be essentially different; I mean where the

The Federalist 247

exercise of a concurrent jurisdiction might be pro-
ductive of occasional interferences in the policy of
any branch of administration, but would not imply
any direct contradiction or repugnancy in point of
constitutional authority. These three cases of ex-
clusive jurisdiction in the federal government may
be exemplified by the following instances: The last
clause but one in the eighth section of the first article
provides expressly that Congress shall exercise " ex-
clusive legislation" over the district to be appro-
priated as the seat of government. This answers to
the first case. The first clause of the same section
empowers Congress uto lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts, and excises"; and the second clause of the
tenth section of the same article declares that, "no
State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any
imposts or duties on imports or exports, except for the
purpose of executing its inspection laws." Hence
would result an exclusive power in the Union to lay
duties on imports and exports, with the particular
exception mentioned ; but this power is abridged by
another clause, which declares that no tax or duty
shall be laid on articles exported from any State ; in
consequence of which qualification, it now only ex-
tends to the duties on imports. This answers to the
second case. The third will be found in that clause
which declares that Congress shall have power "to
establish an uniform rule of naturalization through-
out the United States." This must necessarily be
exclusive; because if each State had power to pre-
scribe a distinct rule, there could not be a uni-
form RULE.

248 Alexander Hamilton

A case which may perhaps be thought to resemble
the latter, but which is in fact widely different,
affects the question immediately under considera-
tion. I mean the power of imposing taxes on all
articles other than exports and imports. This, I
contend, is manifestly a concurrent and coequal
authority in the United States and in the individual
States. There is plainly no expression in the grant-
ing clause which makes that power exclusive in the
Union. There is no independent clause or sentence
which prohibits the States from exercising it. So
far is this from being the case, that a plain and con-
clusive argument to the contrary is to be deduced
from the restraint laid upon the States in relation
to duties on imports and exports. This restriction
implies an admission that, if it were not inserted, the
States would possess the power it excludes; and it
implies a further admission, that as to all other
taxes, the authority of the States remains undi-
minished. In any other view it would be both un-
necessary and dangerous; it would be unnecessary,
because if the grant to the Union of the power of
laying such duties implied the exclusion of the States,
or even their subordination in this particular, there
could be no need of such a restriction; it would be
dangerous, because the introduction of it leads di-
rectly to the conclusion which has been mentioned,
and which, if the reasoning of the objectors be just,
could not have been intended; I mean that the
States, in all cases to which the restriction did not
apply, would have a concurrent power of taxation
with the Union. The restriction in question amounts

The Federalist 249

to what lawyers call a negative pregnant — that is,
a negation of one thing, and an affirmance of another;
a negation of the authority of the States to impose
taxes on imports and exports, and an affirmance of
their authority to impose them on all other articles.
It would be mere sophistry to argue that it was
meant to exclude them absolutely from the imposi-
tion of taxes of the former kind, and to leave them
at liberty to lay others subject to the control of the
national legislature. The restraining or prohibitory
clause only says, that they shall not, without the
consent of Congress, lay such duties; and if we are
to understand this in the sense last mentioned, the
Constitution would then be made to introduce a
formal provision for the sake of a very absurd con-
clusion ; which is, that the States, with the consent of
the national legislature, might tax imports and ex-
ports; and that they might tax every other article,
unless controlled by the same body. If this was the
intention, why not leave it, in the first instance, to
what is alleged to be the natural operation of the
original clause, conferring a general power of taxa-
tion upon the Union? It is evident that this could
not have been the intention, and that it will not bear
a construction of the kind.

As to a supposition of repugnancy between the
power of taxation in the States and in the Union, it
cannot be supported in that sense which would be
requisite to work an exclusion of the States. It is,
indeed, possible that a tax might be laid on a par-
ticular article by a State which might render it in-
expedient that thus a further tax should be laid on

250 Alexander Hamilton

the same article by the Union; but it would not
imply a constitutional inability to impose a further
tax. The quantity of the imposition, the expedi-
ency or inexpediency of an increase on either side,
would be mutually questions of prudence; but
there would be involved no direct contradiction of
power. The particular policy of the national and of
the State systems of finance might now and then not
exactly coincide, and might require reciprocal for-
bearances. It is not, however, a mere possibility of
inconvenience in the exercise of powers, but an im-
mediate constitutional repugnancy that can by im-
plication alienate and extinguish a preexisting right
of sovereignty.

The necessity of a concurrent jurisdiction in cer-
tain cases results from the division of the sovereign
power; and the rule that all authorities, of which
the States are not explicitly divested in favor of the
Union, remain with them in full vigor, is not a theo-
retical consequence of that division, but is clearly
admitted by the whole tenor of the instrument
which contains the articles of the proposed Constitu-
tion. We there find that, notwithstanding the
affirmative grants of general authorities, there has
been the most pointed care in those cases where it
was deemed improper that the like authorities should
reside in the States, to insert negative clauses pro-
hibiting the exercise of them by the States. The
tenth section of the first article consists altogether
of such provisions. This circumstance is a clear in-
dication of the sense of the convention, and fur-
nishes a rule of interpretation out of the body of the

The Federalist 251

act, which justifies the position I have advanced
and refutes every hypothesis to the contrary.

PUBLIUS.

From the Daily Advertiser, January 3, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The residue of the argument against the provisions
of the Constitution in respect to taxation is in-
grafted upon the following clause.1 The last clause
of the eighth section of the first article of the plan
under consideration authorizes the national legis-
lature "to make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution the powers by
that Constitution vested in the government of the
United States, or in any department or officer
thereof"; and the second clause of the sixth article
declares, "that the Constitution and the laws of the
United States made in pursuance thereof, and the
treaties made by their authority shall be the supreme
law of the land, any thing in the constitution or laws
of any State to the contrary notwithstanding."

These two clauses have been the source of much
virulent invective and petulant declamation against
the proposed Constitution. They have been held
up to the people in all the exaggerated colors of
misrepresentation as the pernicious engines by which

1 This was the point at which No. XXXI. of the original newspaper
essays was divided, and this opening sentence appeared first in the
McLean edition of 1788.

252 Alexander Hamilton

their local governments were to be destroyed and
their liberties exterminated; as the hideous monster
whose devouring jaws would spare neither sex nor
age, nor high nor low, nor sacred nor profane; and
yet, strange as it may appear, after all this clamor,
to those who may not have happened to contem-
plate them in the same light, it may be affirmed
with perfect confidence that the constitutional op-
eration of the intended government would be pre-
cisely the same, if these clauses were entirely
obliterated, as if they were repeated in every article.
They are only declaratory of a truth which would have
resulted by necessary and unavoidable implication
from the very act of constituting a federal govern-
ment, and vesting it with certain specified powers.
This is so clear a proposition, that moderation itself
can scarcely listen to the railings which have been
so copiously vented against this part of the plan,
without emotions that disturb its equanimity.

What is a power, but the ability or faculty of
doing a thing? What is the ability to do a thing,
but the power of employing the means necessary to
its execution? What is a legislative power, but a
power of making laws? What are the means to
execute a legislative power, but laws? What is
the power of laying and collecting taxes, but a
legislative power, or a power of making laws, to lay
and collect taxes? What are the proper means of
executing such a power, but necessary and proper
laws?

This simple train of inquiry furnishes us at once
with a test by which to judge of the true nature of

The Federalist 253

the clause complained of. It conducts us to this
palpable truth, that a power to lay and collect taxes
must be a power to pass all laws necessary and proper
for the execution of that power; and what does the
unfortunate and calumniated provision in question
do more than declare the same truth, to wit, that
the national legislature, to whom the power of laying
and collecting taxes had been previously given,
might, in the execution of that power, pass all laws
necessary and proper to carry it into effect? I have
applied these observations thus particularly to the
power of taxation, because it is the immediate sub-
ject under consideration, and because it is the most
important of the authorities proposed to be con-
ferred upon the Union. But the same process will
lead to the same result, in relation to all other powers
declared in the Constitution. And it is expressly to
execute these powers that the sweeping clause, as it
has been affectedly called, authorizes the national
legislature to pass all necessary and proper laws. If
there is any thing exceptionable, it must be sought
for in the specific powers upon which this general
declaration is predicated. The declaration itself,
though it may be chargeable with tautology or re-
dundancy, is at least perfectly harmless.

But suspicion may ask, Why then was it intro-
duced ? The answer is, that it could only have been
done for greater caution, and to guard against all
cavilling refinements in those who might hereafter
feel a disposition to curtail and evade the legitimate
authorities of the Union. The Convention prob-
ably foresaw, what it has been a principal aim of

254 Alexander Hamilton

these papers to inculcate, that the danger which
most threatens our political welfare is that the State
governments will finally sap the foundations of the
Union; and might therefore think it necessary, in
so cardinal a point, to leave nothing to construction.
Whatever may have been the inducement to it, the
wisdom of the precaution is evident from the cry
which has been raised against it; as that very cry
betrays a disposition to question the great and es-
sential truth which it is manifestly the object of that
provision to declare.

But it may be again asked, Who is to judge of the
necessity and propriety of the laws to be passed for
executing the powers of the Union? I answer, first,
that this question arises as well and as fully upon
the simple grant of those powers as upon the de-
claratory clause ; and I answer, in the second place,
that the national government, like every other, must
judge, in the first instance, of the proper exercise of
its powers, and its constituents in the last. If the
federal government should overpass the just bounds
of its authority and make a tyrannical use of its
powers, the people, whose creature it is, must appeal
to the standard they have formed, and take such
measures to redress the injury done to the Constitu-
tion as the exigency may suggest and prudence jus-
tify. The propriety of a law, in a constitutional
light, must always be determined by the nature of
the powers upon which it is founded. Suppose, by
some forced constructions of its authority (which,
indeed, cannot easily be imagined), the Federal
legislature should attempt to vary the law of descent

The Federalist 255

in any State, would it not be evident that, in making
such an attempt, it had exceeded its jurisdiction,
and infringed upon that of the State? Suppose,
again, that upon the pretence of an interference with
its revenues, it should undertake to abrogate a land-
tax imposed by the authority of a State; would it
not be equally evident that this was an invasion of
that concurrent jurisdiction in respect to this species
of tax, which its Constitution plainly supposes to exist
in the State governments ? If there ever should be
a doubt on this head, the credit of it will be entirely
due to those reasoners who, in the imprudent zeal
of their animosity to the plan of the convention,
have labored to envelop it in a cloud calculated to
obscure the plainest and simplest truths.

But it is said that the laws of the Union are to be
the supreme law of the land. But what inference
can be drawn from this, or what would they amount
to, if they were not to be supreme? It is evident
they would amount to nothing. A law, by the
very meaning of the term, includes supremacy. It
is a rule which those to whom it is prescribed are
bound to observe. This results from every political
association. If individuals enter into a state of
society, the laws of that society must be the supreme
regulator of their conduct. If a number of political
societies enter into a larger political society, the laws
which the latter may enact, pursuant to the powers
intrusted to it by its constitution, must necessarily
be supreme over those societies, and the individuals
of whom they are composed. It would otherwise be
a mere treaty, dependent on the good faith of the

256 Alexander Hamilton

parties, and not a government, which is only an-
other word for political power and supremacy.
But it will not follow from this doctrine that acts of
the larger society which are not pursuant to its con-
stitutional powers, but which are invasions of the
residuary authorities of the smaller societies, will
become the supreme law of the land. These will be
merely acts of usurpation, and will deserve to be
treated as such. Hence we perceive that the clause
which declares the supremacy of the laws of the
Union, like the one we have just before considered,
only declares a truth, which flows immediately and
necessarily from the institution of a federal govern-
ment. It will not, I presume, have escaped obser-
vation, that it expressly confines this supremacy to
laws made pursuant to the Constitution; which I
mention merely as an instance of caution in the
convention; since that limitation would have been
to be understood, though it had not been expressed.
Though a law, therefore, laying a tax for the use of
the United States would be supreme in its nature,
and could not legally be opposed or controlled, yet
a law for abrogating or preventing the collection of
a tax laid by the authority of the State (unless upon
imports and exports) , would not be the supreme law
of the land, but a usurpation of power not granted
by the Constitution. As far as an improper accu-
mulation of taxes on the same object might tend
to render the collection difficult or precarious, this
would be a mutual inconvenience, not arising from
a superiority or defect of power on either side, but
from an injudicious exercise of power by one or the

The Federalist 257

other, in a manner equally disadvantageous to both.
It is to be hoped and presumed, however, that
mutual interest would dictate a concert in this re-
spect which would avoid any material inconvenience.
The inference from the whole is, that the individual
States would, under the proposed Constitution, re-
tain an independent and uncontrollable authority to
raise revenue to any extent of which they may stand
in need, by every kind of taxation, except duties on
imports and exports. It will be shown in the next
paper that this concurrent jurisdiction in the
article of taxation was the only admissible substi-
tute for an entire subordination, in respect to this
branch of power, of the State authority to that of
the Union.

Publius.

From the New York Packet, Friday, January 4, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXIV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

I flatter myself it has been clearly shown in my
last number that the particular States, under the
proposed Constitution, would have coequal au-
thority with the Union in the article of revenue,
except as to duties on imports. As this leaves open
to the States far the greatest part of the resources
of the community, there can be no color for the
assertion that they would not possess means as
abundant as could be desired for the supply of their
own wants, independent of all external control.

258 Alexander Hamilton

That the field is sufficiently wide will more fully
appear when we come to advert to the inconsider-
able share of the public expenses for which it will fall
to the lot of the State governments to provide.

To argue upon abstract principles that this co-
ordinate authority cannot exist, is to set up supposi-
tion and theory against fact and reality. However
proper such reasonings might be to show that a
thing ought not to exist, they are wholly to be re-
jected when they are made use of to prove that it
does not exist contrary to the evidence of the fact
itself. It is well known that in the Roman republic
the legislative authority, in the last resort, resided
for ages in two different political bodies — not as
branches of the same legislature, but as distinct and
independent legislatures, in each of which an oppo-
site interest prevailed: in one the patrician; in the
other, the plebeian. Many arguments might have
been adduced to prove the unfitness of two such
seemingly contradictory authorities, each having
power to annul or repeal the acts of the other. But
a man would have been regarded as frantic who
should have attempted at Rome to disprove their
existence. It will be readily understood that I
allude to the comitia centuriata and the comitia
tributa. The former, in which the people voted by
centuries, was so arranged as to give a superiority to
the patrician interest; in the latter, in which num-
bers prevailed, the plebeian interest had an entire
predominancy. And yet these two legislatures co-
existed for ages, and the Roman republic attained
to the utmost height of human greatness.

The Federalist 259

In the case particularly under consideration, there
is no such contradiction as appears in the example
cited; there is no power on either side to annul the
acts of the other. And in practice there is little
reason to apprehend any inconvenience; because,
in a short course of time, the wants of the States will
naturally reduce themselves within a very narrow
compass; and in the interim, the United States will,
in all probability, find it convenient to abstain
wholly from those objects to which the particular
States would be inclined to resort.

To form a more precise judgment of the true
merits of this question, it will be well to advert to
the proportion between the objects that will require
a federal provision in respect to revenue, and those
which will require a State provision. We shall dis-
cover that the former are altogether unlimited, and
that the latter are circumscribed within very mod-
erate bounds. In pursuing this inquiry, we must
bear in mind that we are not to confine our view to
the present period, but to look forward to remote
futurity. Constitutions of civil government are not
to be framed upon a calculation of existing exigen-
cies, but upon a combination of these with the prob-
able exigencies of ages, according to the natural and
tried course of human affairs. Nothing, therefore,
can be more fallacious than to infer the extent of any
power, proper to be lodged in the national govern-
ment, from an estimate of its immediate necessities.
There ought to be a capacity to provide for future
contingencies as they may happen; and as these are
illimitable in their nature, it is impossible safely to

260 Alexander Hamilton

limit that capacity. It is true, perhaps, that a com-
putation might be made with sufficient accuracy to
answer the purpose of the quantity of revenue re-
quisite to discharge the subsisting engagements of
the Union, and to maintain those establishments
which, for some time to come, would suffice in time
of peace. But would it be wise, or would it not
rather be the extreme of folly, to stop at this point,
and to leave the government intrusted with the care
of the national defence in a state of absolute in-
capacity to provide for the protection of the com-
munity against future invasions of the public peace,
by foreign war or domestic convulsions? If, on the
contrary, we ought to exceed this point, where can
we stop, short of an indefinite power of providing
for emergencies as they may arise ? Though it is easy
to assert, in general terms, the possibility of forming
a rational judgment of a due provision against prob-
able dangers, yet we may safely challenge those who
make the assertion to bring forward their data, and
may affirm that they would be found as vague and
uncertain as any that could be produced to establish
the probable duration of the world. Observations
confined to the mere prospects of internal attacks
can deserve no weight; though even theso will admit
of no satisfactory calculation: but if we mean to be
a commercial people, it must form a part of our
policy to be able one day to defend that commerce.
The support of a navy and of naval wars would in-
volve contingencies that must baffle all the efforts
of political arithmetic.

Admitting that we ought to try the novel and

The Federalist 261

absurd experiment in politics of tying up the hands
of government from offensive war founded upon
reasons of state, yet certainly we ought not to dis-
able it from guarding the community against the
ambition or enmity of other nations. A cloud has
been for some time hanging over the European
world. If it should break forth into a storm, who
can insure us that in its progress a part of its fury
would not be spent upon us? No reasonable man
would hastily pronounce that we are entirely out of
its reach. Or if the combustible materials that now
seem to be collecting should be dissipated without
coming to maturity, or if a flame should be kindled
without extending to us, what security can we have
that our tranquillity will long remain undisturbed
from some other cause or from some other quarter?
Let us recollect that peace or war will not always be
left to our option; that however moderate or un-
ambitious we may be, we cannot count upon the
moderation, or hope to extinguish the ambition of
others. Who could have imagined at the conclu-
sion of the last war that France and Britain, wearied
and exhausted as they both were, would so soon
have looked with so hostile an aspect upon each
other? To judge from the history of mankind, we
shall be compelled to conclude that the fiery and
destructive passions of war reign in the human
breast with much more powerful sway than the mild
and beneficent sentiments of peace; and that to
model our political systems upon speculations of
lasting tranquillity, is to calculate on the weaker
springs of the human character.

262 Alexander Hamilton

What are the chief sources of expense in every
government? What has occasioned that enormous
accumulation of debts with which several of the
European nations are oppressed? The answer
plainly is, wars and rebellions; the support of those
institutions which are necessary to guard the body
politic against these two most mortal diseases of
society. The expenses arising from those institu-
tions which are relative to the mere domestic police
of a state, to the support of its legislative, executive,
and judicial departments, with their different appen-
dages, and to the encouragement of agriculture and
manufactures (which will comprehend almost all the
objects of state expenditure), are insignificant in
comparison with those which relate to the national
defence.

In the kingdom of Great Britain, where all the
ostentatious apparatus of monarchy is to be pro-
vided for, not above a fifteenth part of the annual
income of the nation is appropriated to the class of
expenses last mentioned ; the other fourteen fifteenths
are absorbed in the payment of the interest of debts
contracted for carrying on the wars in which that
country has been engaged, and in the maintenance
of fleets and armies. If, on the one hand, it should
be observed that the expenses incurred in the prose-
cution of the ambitious enterprises and vainglorious
pursuits of a monarchy are not a proper standard by
which to judge of those which might be necessary in
a republic, it ought, on the other hand, to be re-
marked that there should be as great a disproportion
between the profusion and extravagance of a wealthy

The Federalist 263

kingdom in its domestic administration, and the
frugality and economy which in that particular be-
come the modest simplicity of republican govern-
ment. If we balance a proper deduction from one
side against that which it is supposed ought to be
made from the other, the proportion may still be
considered as holding good.

But let us advert to the large debt which we have
ourselves contracted in a single war, and let us only
calculate on a common share of the events which
disturb the peace of nations, and we shall instantly
perceive, without the aid of any elaborate illustra-
tion, that there must always be an immense dispro-
portion between the objects of federal and state
expenditures. It is true that several of the States,
separately, are encumbered with considerable debts,
which are an excrescence of the late war. But this
cannot happen again, if the proposed system be
adopted ; and when these debts are discharged, the
only call for revenue of any consequence, which the
State governments will continue to experience, will
be for the mere support of their respective civil lists ,
to which, if we add all contingencies, the total
amount in every State ought to fall considerably
short of two hundred thousand pounds.

In framing a government for posterity as well as
ourselves, we ought, in those provisions which are
designed to be permanent, to calculate, not on tem-
porary, but on permanent causes of expense. If
this principle be a just one, our attention would be
directed to a provision in favor of the State govern-
ments for an annual sum of about two hundred

264 Alexander Hamilton

thousand pounds ; while the exigencies of the Union
could be susceptible of no limits, even in imagina-
tion. In this view of the subject, by what logic can
it be maintained that the local governments ought to
command, in perpetuity, an exclusive source of
revenue for any sum beyond the extent of two hun-
dred thousand pounds? To extend its power fur-
ther, in exclusion of the authority of the Union,
would be to take the resources of the community
out of those hands which stood in need of them for
the public welfare, in order to put them into other
hands which could have no just or proper occasion
for them.

Suppose, then, the convention had been inclined
to proceed upon the principle of a repartition of the
objects of revenue, between the Union and its mem-
bers, in proportion to their comparative necessities;
what particular fund could have been selected for
the use of the States, that would not either have been
too much or too little — too little for their present,
too much for their future wants? As to the line of
separation between external and internal taxes, this
would leave to the States, at a rough computation,
the command of two thirds of the resources of the
community to defray from a tenth to a twentieth
part of its expenses ; and to the Union, one third of
the resources of the community, to defray from nine
tenths to nineteen twentieths of its expenses. If we
desert this boundary and content ourselves with
leaving to the States an exclusive power of taxing
houses and lands, there would still be a great dis-
proportion between the means and the end; the

The Federalist 265

possession of one third of the resources of the com-
munity to supply, at most, one tenth of its wants. If
any fund could have been selected and appropriated,
equal to and not greater than the object, it would
have been inadequate to the discharge of the existing
debts of the particular States, and would have left
them dependent on the Union for a provision for
this purpose.

The preceding train of observation will justify the
position which has been elsewhere laid down, that
"a concurrent jurisdiction in the article of taxa-
tion was the only admissible substitute for an entire
subordination, in respect to this branch of power,
of State authority to that of the Union." Any
separation of the objects of revenue that could have
been fallen upon, would have amounted to a sacrifice
of the great interests of the Union to the power of
the individual States. The convention thought the
concurrent jurisdiction preferable to that subordina-
tion; and it is evident that it has at least the merit
of reconciling an indefinite constitutional power of
taxation in the Federal government with an ade-
quate and independent power in the States to pro-
vide for their own necessities. There remain a few
other lights, in which this important subject of
taxation will claim a further consideration.

Publius.

266 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Before we proceed to examine any other objections
to an indefinite power of taxation in the Union, I shall
make one general remark ; which is, that if the juris-
diction of the national government, in the article of
revenue, should be restricted to particular objects,
it would naturally occasion an undue proportion of
the public burdens to fall upon those objects. Two
evils would spring from this source: the oppression
of particular branches of industry; and an unequal
distribution of the taxes, as well among the several
States as among the citizens of the same State.

Suppose, as has been contended for, the federal
power of taxation were to be confined to duties on
imports, it is evident that the government, for want
of being able to command other resources, would
frequently be tempted to extend these duties to an
injurious excess. There are persons who imagine
that they can never be carried to too great a length ;
since the higher they are, the more it is alleged they
will tend to discourage an extravagant consumption,
to produce a favorable balance of trade, and to pro-
mote domestic manufactures. But all extremes are
pernicious in various ways. Exorbitant duties on
imported articles would beget a general spirit of
smuggling; which is always prejudicial to the fair
trader, and eventually to the revenue itself: they
tend to render other classes of the community tribu-

The Federalist 267

tary, in an improper degree, to the manufacturing
classes, to whom they give a premature monopoly of
the markets: they sometimes force industry out of
its more natural channels into others in which it
flows with less advantage ; and in the last place, they
oppress the merchant, who is often obliged to pay
them himself without any retribution from the con-
sumer. When the demand is equal to the quantity
of goods at market, the consumer generally pays the
duty; but when the markets happen to be over-
stocked, a great proportion falls upon the merchant,
and sometimes not only exhausts his profits, but
breaks in upon his capital. I am apt to think that
a division of the duty, between the seller and the
buyer, more often happens than is commonly im-
agined. It is not always possible to raise the price of
a commodity in exact proportion to every additional
imposition laid upon it. The merchant, especially
in a country of small commercial capital, is often
under a necessity of keeping prices down in order to
a more expeditious sale.

The maxim that the consumer is the payer, is so
much oftener true than the reverse of the proposi-
tion, that it is far more equitable that the duties on
imports should go into a common stock, than that
they should redound to the exclusive benefit of the
importing States. But it is not so generally true as
to render it equitable, that those duties should form
the only national fund. When they are paid by the
merchant they operate as an additional tax upon the
importing State, whose citizens pay their proportion
of them in the character of consumers. In this view

268 Alexander Hamilton

they are productive of inequality among the States;
which inequality would be increased with the in-
creased extent of the duties. The confinement of
the national revenues to this species of imposts would
be attended with inequality, from a different cause,
between the manufacturing and the non-manufac-
turing States. The States which can go farthest
towards the supply of their own wants, by their own
manufactures, will not, according to their numbers
or wealth, consume so great a proportion of imported
articles as those States which are not in the same
favorable situation. They would not, therefore, in
this mode alone contribute to the public treasury in
a ratio to their abilities. To make them do this it
is necessary that recourse be had to excises, the
proper objects of which are particular kinds of manu-
factures. New York is more deeply interested in
these considerations than such of her citizens as
contend for limiting the power of the Union to ex-
ternal taxation may be aware of. New York is an
importing State, and is not likely speedily to be,
to any great extent,1 a manufacturing State. She
would, of course, suffer in a double light from re-
straining the jurisdiction of the Union to commer-
cial imposts.

So far as these observations tend to inculcate a
danger of the import duties being extended to an
injurious extreme it may be observed, conformably
to a remark made in another part of these papers,

1 In the revised text, "and from a greater disproportion between
her population and territory is unlikely speedily to be, to any great
extent."

The Federalist 269

that the interest of the revenue itself would be a
sufficient guard against such an extreme. I readily
admit that this would be the case, as long as other
resources were open; but if the avenues to them
were closed, hope, stimulated by necessity, would
beget experiments, fortified by rigorous precautions
and additional penalties, which, for a time, would
have the intended effect, till there had been leisure
to contrive expedients to elude these new precau-
tions. The first success would be apt to inspire false
opinions, which it might require a long course of
subsequent experience to correct. Necessity, espe-
cially in politics, often occasions false hopes, false
reasonings, and a system of measures correspond-
ingly erroneous. But even if this supposed excess
should not be a consequence of the limitation of the
federal power of taxation, the inequalities spoken of
would still ensue, though not in the same degree,
from the other causes that have been noticed. Let
us now return to the examination of objections.

One which, if we may judge from the frequency of
its repetition, seems most to be relied on, is, that the
House of Representatives is not sufficiently numer-
ous for the reception of all the different classes of
citizens, in order to combine the interests and feelings
of every part of the community, and to produce
a due sympathy between the representative body
and its constituents. This argument presents itself
under a very specious and seducing form; and is
well calculated to lay hold of the prejudices of those
to whom it is addressed. But when we come to
dissect it with attention, it will appear to be made up

270 Alexander Hamilton

of nothing but fair-sounding words. The object it
seems to aim at is, in the first place, impracticable,
and in the sense in which it is contended for, is un-
necessary. I reserve for another place the discus-
sion of the question which relates to the sufficiency
of the representative body in respect to numbers,
and shall content myself with examining here the
particular use which has been made of a contrary
supposition, in reference to the immediate subject
of our inquiries.

The idea of an actual representation of all classes
of the people, by persons of each class, is altogether
visionary. Unless it were expressly provided in the
Constitution, that each different occupation should
send one or more members, the thing would never
take place in practice. Mechanics and manufac-
turers will always be inclined, with few exceptions,
to give their votes to merchants, in preference to
persons of their own professions or trades. Those
discerning citizens are well aware that the mechanic
and manufacturing arts furnish the materials of
mercantile enterprise and industry. Many of them,
indeed, are immediately connected with the opera-
tions of commerce. They know that the merchant
is their natural patron and friend; and they are
aware, that however great the confidence they may
justly feel in their own good sense, their interests
can be more effectually promoted by the merchant
than by themselves. They are sensible that their
habits in life have not been such as to give them
those acquired endowments, without which, in a
deliberative assembly, the greatest natural abilities

The Federalist 271

are for the most part useless ; and that the influence
and weight, and superior acquirements of the mer-
chants render them more equal to a contest with
any spirit which might happen to infuse itself into
the public councils, unfriendly to the manufacturing
and trading interests. These considerations, and
many others that might be mentioned, prove, and
experience confirms it, that artisans and manu-
facturers will commonly be disposed to bestow their
votes upon merchants and those whom they recom-
mend. We must therefore consider merchants as
the natural representatives of all these classes of the
community.

With regard to the learned professions, little need
be observed; they truly form no distinct interest in
society, and according to their situation and talents,
will be indiscriminately the objects of the confidence
and choice of each other, and of other parts of the
community.

Nothing remains but the landed interest; and
this, in a political view, and particularly in relation
to taxes, I take to be perfectly united, from the
wealthiest landlord down to the poorest tenant. No
tax can be laid on land which will not affect the pro-
prietor of millions of acres as well as the proprietor
of a single acre. Every landholder will therefore
have a common interest to keep the taxes on land
as low as possible ; and common interest may always
be reckoned upon as the surest bond of sympathy.
But if we even could suppose a distinction of interest
between the opulent landholder and the middling
farmer, what reason is there to conclude, that the

272 Alexander Hamilton

first would stand a better chance of being deputed
to the national legislature than the last ? If we take
fact as our guide, and look into our own senate and
assembly, we shall find that moderate proprietors of
land prevail in both; nor is this less the case in the
senate, which consists of a smaller number, than in
the assembly, which is composed of a greater num-
ber. Where the qualifications of the electors are the
same, whether they have to choose a small or a large
number, their votes will fall upon those in whom
they have most confidence; whether these happen
to be men of large fortunes, or of moderate property,
or of no property at all.

It is said to be necessary, that all classes of citizens
should have some of their own number in the re-
presentative body, in order that their feelings and
interests may be the better understood and attended
to. But we have seen that this will never happen
under any arrangement that leaves the votes of the
people free. Where this is the case, the representative
body, with too few exceptions to have any influence
on the spirit of the government, will be composed of
landholders, merchants, and men of the learned pro-
fessions. But where is the danger that the interests
and feelings of the different classes of citizens will
not be understood or attended to by these three
descriptions of men ? Will not the landholder know
and feel whatever will promote or insure the interest
of landed property ? And will he not, from his own
interest in that species of property, be sufficiently
prone to resist every attempt to prejudice or encum-
ber it? Will not the merchant understand and be

The Federalist 273

disposed to cultivate, as far as may be proper, the
interests of the mechanic and manufacturing arts,
to which his commerce is so nearly allied? Will not
the man of the learned profession, who will feel a
neutrality to the rivalships between the different
branches of industry, be likely to prove an impartial
arbiter between them, ready to promote either, so
far as it shall appear to him conducive to the general
interests of the society?

If we take into the account the momentary hu-
mors or dispositions which may happen to prevail
in particular parts of the society, and to which a
wise administration will never be inattentive, is the
man whose situation leads to extensive inquiry and
information less likely to be a competent judge of
their nature, extent, and foundation than one whose
observation does not travel beyond the circle of his
neighbors and acquaintances? Is it not natural
that a man who is a candidate for the favor of the
people, and who is dependent on the suffrages of
his fellow-citizens for the continuance of his public
honors, should take care to inform himself of their
dispositions and inclinations, and should be willing
to allow them their proper degree of influence upon
his conduct ? This dependence, and the necessity
of being bound himself, and his posterity, by the
laws to which he gives his assent, are the true, and
they are the strong chords of sympathy between the
representative and the constituent.

There is no part of the administration of govern-
ment that requires extensive information and a
thorough knowledge of the principles of political

VOL. XI.— 18.

274 Alexander Hamilton

economy, so much as the business of taxation. The
man who understands those principles best will be
least likely to resort to oppressive expedients, or to
sacrifice any particular class of citizens to the pro-
curement of revenue. It might be demonstrated
that the most productive system of finance will
always be the least burdensome. There can be no
doubt that in order to a judicious exercise of the
power of taxation, it is necessary that the person in
whose hands it is should be acquainted with the
general genius, habits, and modes of thinking of the
people at large, and with the resources of the country.
And this is all that can be reasonably meant by a
knowledge of the interests and feelings of the people.
In any other sense the proposition has either no
meaning, or an absurd one. And in that sense let
every considerate citizen judge for himself where the
requisite qualification is most likely to be found.

Publius.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, January 8, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXVI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

We have seen that the result of the observations,
to which the foregoing number has been principally
devoted, is, that from the natural operation of the
different interests and views of the various classes
of the community, whether the representation of
the people be more or less numerous, it will consist

The Federalist 275

almost entirely of proprietors of land, of merchants,
and of members of the learned professions, who will
truly represent all those different interests and views.
If it should be objected that we have seen other
descriptions of men in the local legislatures, I answer
that it is admitted there are exceptions to the rule,
but not in sufficient number to influence the general
complexion or character of the government. There
are strong minds in every walk of life that will rise
superior to the disadvantages of situation, and will
command the tribute due to their merit, not only
from the classes to which they particularly belong,
but from the society in general. The door ought to
be equally open to all; and I trust, for the credit of
human nature, that we shall see examples of such
vigorous plants flourishing in the soil of federal as
well as of State legislation ; but occasional instances
of this sort will not render the reasoning, founded
upon the general course of things, less conclusive.

The subject might be placed in several other lights
that would all lead to the same result; and in par-
ticular it might be asked, What greater affinity or
relation of interest can be conceived between the
carpenter and blacksmith, and the linen manufac-
turer or stocking- weaver, than between the merchant
and either of them? It is notorious that there are
often as great rivalships between different branches
of the mechanic or manufacturing arts as there are
between any of the departments of labor and in-
dustry ; so that, unless the representative body were
to be far more numerous than would be consist-
ent with any idea of regularity or wisdom in its

276 Alexander Hamilton

deliberations, it is impossible that what seems to be
the spirit of the objection we have been considering
should ever be realized in practice. But I forbear
to dwell any longer on a matter which has hitherto
worn too loose a garb to admit even of an accurate
inspection of its real shape or tendency.

There is another objection of a somewhat more
precise nature that claims our attention. It has been
asserted that a power of internal taxation in the
national legislature could never be exercised with
advantage, as well from the want of a sufficient
knowledge of local circumstances, as from an inter-
ference between the revenue laws of the Union
and of the particular States. The supposition of a
want of proper knowledge seems to be entirely desti-
tute of foundation. If any question is depending in a
State legislature respecting one of the counties, which
demands a knowledge of local details, how is it ac-
quired? No doubt from the information of the
members of the county. Cannot the like knowledge
be obtained in the national legislature from the re-
presentatives of each State? And is it not to be
presumed that the men who will generally be sent
there will be possessed of the necessary degree of
intelligence to be able to communicate that infor-
mation? Is the knowledge of local circumstances,
as applied to taxation, a minute topographical ac-
quaintance with all the mountains, rivers, streams,
highways, and by-paths in each State; or is it a
general acquaintance with its situation and re-
sources, with the state of its agriculture, commerce,
manufactures, with the nature of its products and

The Federalist 277

consumptions, with the different degrees and kinds
of its wealth, property, and industry?

Nations in general, even under governments of
the more popular kind, usually commit the adminis-
tration of their finances to single men or to boards
composed of a few individuals, who digest and pre-
pare, in the first instance, the plans of taxation,
which are afterwards passed into laws by the au-
thority of the sovereign or legislature.

Inquisitive and enlightened statesmen are deemed
everywhere best qualified to make a judicious selec-
tion of the objects proper for revenue; which is a
clear indication, as far as the sense of mankind can
have weight in the question, of the species of know-
ledge of local circumstances requisite to the purposes
of taxation.

The taxes intended to be comprised under the
general denomination of internal taxes may be sub-
divided into those of the direct and those of the in-
direct kind. Though the objection be made to both,
yet the reasoning upon it seems to be confined to the
former branch. And indeed, as to the latter, by
which must be understood duties and excises on
articles of consumption, one is at a loss to conceive
what can be the nature of the difficulties appre-
hended. The knowledge relating to them must evi-
dently be of a kind that will either be suggested
by the nature of the article itself, or can easily be
procured from any well-informed man, especially of
the mercantile class. The circumstances that may
distinguish its situation in one State from its situa-
tion in another must be few, simple, and easy to be

278 Alexander Hamilton

comprehended. The principal thing to be attended
to, would be to avoid those articles which had been
previously appropriated to the use of a particular
State; and there could be no difficulty in ascertain-
ing the revenue system of each. This could always
be known from the respective codes of laws, as well
as from the information of the members from the
several States.

The objection, when applied to real property or to
houses and lands, appears to have, at first sight,
more foundation, but even in this view it will not
bear a close examination. Land-taxes are com-
monly laid in one of two modes, either by actual
valuations, permanent or periodical, or by occa-
sional assessments, at the discretion, or according to
the best judgment, of certain officers whose duty it
is to make them. In either case, the execution of
the business, which alone requires the knowledge of
local details, must be devolved upon discreet persons
in the character of commissioners or assessors,
elected by the people or appointed by the govern-
ment for the purpose. All that the law can do must
be to name the persons or to prescribe the manner of
their election or appointment, to fix their numbers
and qualifications and to draw the general outlines
of their powers and duties. And what is there in
all this that cannot as well be performed by the na-
tional legislature as by a State legislature ? The at-
tention of either can only reach to general principles ;
local details, as already observed, must be referred
to those who are to execute the plan.

But there is a simple point of view in which this

The Federalist 279

matter may be placed that must be altogether satis-
factory. The national legislature can make use of
the system of each State within that State. The
method of laying and collecting this species of taxes
in each State can, in all its parts, be adopted and
employed by the federal government.

Let it be recollected that the proportion of these
taxes is not to be left to the discretion of the national
legislature, but is to be determined by the numbers
of each State, as described in the second section of
the first article. An actual census or enumeration
of the people must furnish the rule, a circumstance
which effectually shuts the door to partiality or
oppression. The abuse of this power of taxation
seems to have been provided against with guarded
circumspection. In addition to the precaution just
mentioned, there is a provision that " all duties, im-
posts, and excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States."

It has been very properly observed by different
speakers and writers on the side of the Constitution,
that if the exercise of the power of internal taxation
by the Union should be discovered on experiment
to be really inconvenient, the federal government
may then forbear the use of it, and have recourse to
requisitions in its stead. By way of answer to this,
it has been triumphantly asked, Why not in the first
instance omit that ambiguous power, and rely upon
the latter resource? Two solid answers may be
given. The first is, that the exercise of that power,
if convenient, will be preferable, because it will be
more effectual; and it is impossible to prove in

280 Alexander Hamilton

theory, or otherwise than by the experiment, that
it cannot be advantageously exercised. The con-
trary, indeed, appears most probable. The second
answer is, that the existence of such a power in the
Constitution will have a strong influence in giving
efficacy to requisitions. When the States know that
the Union can apply itself without their agency, it
will be a powerful motive for exertion on their part.

As to the interference of the revenue laws of the
Union, and of its members, we have already seen
that there can be no clashing or repugnancy of au-
thority. The laws cannot, therefore, in a legal sense,
interfere with each other; and it is far from im-
possible to avoid an interference even in the policy
of their different systems. An effectual expedient
for this purpose will be, mutually to abstain from
those objects which either side may have first had
recourse to. As neither can control the other, each
will have an obvious and sensible interest in this
reciprocal forbearance. And where there is an im-
mediate common interest, we may safely count upon
its operation. When the particular debts of the
States are done away, and their expenses come to be
limited within their natural compass, the possibility
almost of interference will vanish. A small land-tax
will answer the purpose of the States, and will be
their most simple and most fit resource.

Many spectres have been raised out of this power
of internal taxation, to excite the apprehensions of
the people: double sets of revenue officers, a du-
plication of their burdens by double taxations, and
the frightful forms of odious and oppressive poll-

The Federalist 281

taxes, have been played off with all the ingenious
dexterity of political legerdemain.

As to the first point, there are two cases in which
there can be no room for double sets of officers : one,
where the right of imposing the tax is exclusively
vested in the Union, which applies to the duties on
imports; the other, where the object has not fallen
under any State regulation or provision which may
be applicable to a variety of objects. In other cases,
the probability is that the United States will either
wholly abstain from the objects preoccupied for
local purposes, or will make use of the State officers
and State regulations for collecting the additional
imposition. This will best answer the views of
revenue, because it will save expense in the collec-
tion, and will best avoid any occasion of disgust to
the State governments and to the people. At all
events, here is a practicable expedient for avoiding
such an inconvenience; and nothing more can be
required than to show that evils predicted do not
necessarily result from the plan.

As to any argument derived from a supposed sys-
tem of influence, it is a sufficient answer to say that
it ought not to be presumed; but the supposition
is susceptible of a more precise answer. If such a
spirit should infest the councils of the Union, the
most certain road to the accomplishment of its aim
would be to employ the State officers as much as
possible, and to attach them to the Union by an
accumulation of their emoluments. This would
serve to turn the tide of State influence into the
channels of the national government, instead of

282 Alexander Hamilton

making federal influence flow in an opposite and
adverse current. But all suppositions of this kind
are invidious, and ought to be banished from the
consideration of the great question before the people.
They can answer no other end than to cast a mist
over the truth.

As to the suggestion of double taxation, the an-
swer is plain. The wants of the Union are to be
supplied in one way or another; if to be done by
the authority of the federal government, it will not
be to be done by that of the State government. The
quantity of taxes to be paid by the community must
be the same in either case; with this advantage, if
the provision is to be made by the Union — that the
capital resource of commercial imposts, which is the
most convenient branch of revenue, can be pru-
dently improved to a much greater extent under
federal than under State regulation, and of course
will render it less necessary to recur to more incon-
venient methods; and with this further advantage,
that as far as there may be any real difficulty in the
exercise of the power of internal taxation, it will
impose a disposition to greater care in the choice
and arrangement of the means ; and must naturally
tend to make it a fixed point of policy in the national
administration to go as far as may be practicable in
making the luxury of the rich tributary to the pub-
lic treasury, in order to diminish the necessity of
those impositions which might create dissatisfaction
in the poorer and most numerous classes of the so-
ciety. Happy it is when the interest which the gov-
ernment has in the preservation of its own power,

The Federalist 283

coincides with a proper distribution of the public
burdens, and tends to guard the least wealthy part
of the community from oppression!

As to poll-taxes, I, without scruple, confess my
disapprobation of them; and though they have pre-
vailed from an early period in those States ■ which
have uniformly been the most tenacious of their
rights, I should lament to see them introduced into
practice under the national government. But does
it follow because there is a power to lay them, that
they will actually be laid? Every State in the
Union has power to impose taxes of this kind; and
yet in several of them they are unknown in practice.
Are the State governments to be stigmatized as
tyrannies, because they possess this power? If they
are not, with what propriety can the like power jus-
tify such a charge against the national government,
or even be urged as an obstacle to its adoption ? As
little friendly as I am to the species of imposition,
I still feel a thorough conviction that the power of
having recourse to it ought to exist in the federal
government. There are certain emergencies of na-
tions, in which expedients, that in the ordinary
state of things ought to be forborne, become essen-
tial to the public weal. And the government, from
the possibility of such emergencies, ought ever to
have the option of making use of them. The real
scarcity of objects in this country, which may be
considered as productive sources of revenue, is a
reason peculiar to itself, for not abridging the dis-
cretion of the national councils in this respect.

1 The New England States. — Publius.

284 Alexander Hamilton

There may exist certain critical and tempestuous
conjunctures of the State, in which a poll-tax may
become an inestimable resource. And as I know
nothing to exempt this portion of the globe from
the common calamities that have befallen other
parts of it, I acknowledge my aversion to every pro-
ject that is calculated to disarm the government of
a single weapon, which in any possible contingency
might be usefully employed for the general defence
and security.

I have now gone through the examination of such
of the powers proposed to be vested in the United
States, which may be considered as having an im-
mediate relation to the energy of the government;
and have endeavored to answer the principal ob-
jections which have been made to them. I have
passed over in silence those minor authorities, which
are either too inconsiderable to have been thought
worthy of the hostilities of the opponents of the
Constitution, or of too manifest propriety to admit
of controversy. The mass of judiciary power, how-
ever, might have claimed an investigation under
this head, had it not been for the consideration that
its organization and its extent may be more ad-
vantageously considered in connection. This has
determined me to refer it to the branch of our in-
quiries upon which we shall next enter.

Publius.

The Federalist 285

From the Daily Advertiser, Friday, January n, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXVII
(madison)

To the People of the State of New York:

In reviewing the defects of the existing Confedera-
tion, and showing that they cannot be supplied by
a government of less energy than that before the
public, several of the most important principles of
the latter fell of course under consideration. But
as the ultimate object of these papers is to determine
clearly and fully the merits of this Constitution, and
the expediency of adopting it, our plan cannot be
complete without taking a more critical and thorough
survey of the work of the convention, without ex-
amining it on all its sides, comparing it in all its
parts, and calculating its probable effects.

That this remaining task may be executed under
impressions conducive to a just and fair result, some
reflections must in this place be indulged, which
candor previously suggests.

It is a misfortune, inseparable from human affairs,
that public measures are rarely investigated with
that spirit of moderation which is essential to a just
estimate of their real tendency to advance or ob-
struct the public good; and that this spirit is more
apt to be diminished than promoted, by those occa-
sions which require an unusual exercise of it. To
those who have been led by experience to attend to
this consideration, it could not appear surprising,
that the act of the convention, which recommends
so many important changes and innovations, which

286 Alexander Hamilton

may be viewed in so many lights and relations, and
which touches the springs of so many passions and
interests, should find or excite dispositions un-
friendly, both on one side and on the other, to a fair
discussion and accurate judgment of its merits. In
some, it has been too evident from their own pub-
lications, that they have scanned the proposed Con-
stitution, not only with a predisposition to censure,
but with a predetermination to condemn; as the
language held by others betrays an opposite pre-
determination or bias, which must render their
opinions also of little moment in the question. In
placing, however, these different characters on a
level with respect to the weight of their opinions, I
wish not to insinuate that there may not be a ma-
terial difference in the purity of their intentions.
It is but just to remark in favor of the latter descrip-
tion, that as our situation is universally admitted
to be peculiarly critical, and to require indispensably
that something should be done for our relief, the
predetermined patron of what has been actually
done may have taken his bias from the weight of
these considerations, as well as from considerations
of a sinister nature. The predetermined adversary,
on the other hand, can have been governed by no
venial motive whatever. The intentions of the first
may be upright, as they may on the contrary be
culpable. The views of the last cannot be upright,
and must be culpable. But the truth is, that these
papers are not addressed to persons falling under
either of these characters. They solicit the atten-
tion of those only, who add to a sincere zeal for the

The Federalist 287

happiness of their country, a temper favorable to a
just estimate of the means of promoting it.

Persons of this character will proceed to an ex-
amination of the plan submitted by the convention,
not only without a disposition to find or to magnify
faults; but will see the propriety of reflecting, that
a faultless plan was not to be expected. Nor will
they barely make allowances for the errors which
may be chargeable on the fallibility to which the
convention, as a body of men, were liable; but will
keep in mind, that they themselves also are but
men, and ought not to assume an infallibility in re-
judging the fallible opinions of others.

With equal readiness will it be perceived, that be-
sides these inducements to candor, many allowances
ought to be made for the difficulties inherent in
the very nature of the undertaking referred to the
convention.

The novelty of the undertaking immediately
strikes us. It has been shown in the course of these
papers, that the existing Confederation is founded on
principles which are fallacious; that we must con-
sequently change this first foundation, and with it
the superstructure resting upon it. It has been
shown, that the other confederacies which could be
consulted as precedents have been vitiated by the
same erroneous principles, and can therefore furnish
no other light than that of beacons, which give
warning of the course to be shunned, without point-
ing out that which ought to be pursued. The most
that the convention could do in such a situation,
was to avoid the errors suggested by the past

288 Alexander Hamilton

experience of other countries, as well as of our own;
and to provide a convenient mode of rectifying their
own errors, as future experience may unfold them.

Among the difficulties encountered by the con-
vention, a very important one must have lain in
combining the requisite stability and energy in gov-
ernment, with the inviolable attention due to liberty
and to the republican form. Without substantially
accomplishing this part of their undertaking, they
would have very imperfectly fulfilled the object of
their appointment, or the expectation of the public;
yet that it could not be easily accomplished, will be
denied by no one who is unwilling to betray his ig-
norance of the subject. Energy in government is
essential to that security against external and in-
ternal danger, and to that prompt and' salutary
execution of the laws which enter into the very de-
finition of good government. Stability in govern-
ment is essential to national character and to the
advantages annexed to it, as well as to that repose
and confidence in the minds of the people, which
are among the chief blessings of civil society. An
irregular and mutable legislation is not more an evil
in itself than it is odious to the people; and it may
be pronounced with assurance that the people of
this country, enlightened as they are with regard to
the nature, and interested, as the great body of them
are, in the effects of good government, will never
be satisfied till some remedy be applied to the
vicissitudes and uncertainties which characterize
the State administrations. On comparing, however,
these valuable ingredients with the vital principles

The Federalist 289

of liberty, we must perceive at once the difficulty of
mingling them together in their due proportions.
The genius of republican liberty seems to demand
on one side, not only that all power should be de-
rived from the people, but that those intrusted with
it should be kept in dependence on the people, by a
short duration of their appointments ; and that even
during this short period the trust should be placed
not in a few, but a number of hands. Stability, on
the contrary, requires that the hands in which power
is lodged should continue for a length of time the
same. A frequent change of men will result from a
frequent return of elections; and a frequent change
of measures from a frequent change of men: whilst
energy in government requires not only a certain
duration of power, but the execution of it by a
single hand.

How far the convention may have succeeded in
this part of their work, will better appear on a more
accurate view of it. From the cursory view here
taken, it must clearly appear to have been an ar-
duous part.

Not less arduous must have been the task of
marking the proper line of partition between the
authority of the general and that of the State gov-
ernments. Every man will be sensible of this diffi-
culty, in proportion as he has been accustomed to
contemplate and discriminate objects extensive and
complicated in their nature. The faculties of the
mind itself have never yet been distinguished and
defined, with satisfactory precision, by all the efforts
of the most acute and metaphysical philosophers.

VOL. XI.— Ifl.

290 Alexander Hamilton

Sense, perception, judgment, desire, volition, mem-
ory, imagination, are found to be separated by such
delicate shades and minute gradations that their
boundaries have eluded the most subtle investiga-
tions, and remain a pregnant source of ingenious
disquisition and controversy. The boundaries be-
tween the great kingdoms of nature, and, still more,
between the various provinces, and lesser portions,
into which they are subdivided, afford another illus-
tration of the same important truth. The most
sagacious and laborious naturalists have never yet
succeeded in tracing with certainty the line which
separates the district of vegetable life from the
neighboring region of unorganized matter, or which
marks the termination of the former and the com-
mencement of the animal empire. A still greater
obscurity lies in the distinctive characters by which
the objects in each of these great departments of
nature have been arranged and assorted.

When we pass from the works of nature, in which
all the delineations are perfectly accurate, and ap-
pear to be otherwise only from the imperfection of
the eye which surveys them, to the institutions of
man, in which the obscurity arises as well from the
object itself as from the organ by which it is con-
templated, we must perceive the necessity of mod-
erating still further our expectations and hopes from
the efforts of human sagacity. Experience has in-
structed us that no skill in the science of govern-
ment has yet been able to discriminate and define,
with sufficient certainty, its three great provinces —
the legislative, executive, and judiciary; or even the

The Federalist 291

privileges and powers of the different legislative
branches. Questions daily occur in the course of
practice, which prove the obscurity which reigns in
these subjects, and which puzzle the greatest adepts
in political science.

The experience of ages, with the continued and
combined labors of the most enlightened legislators
and jurists, has been equally unsuccessful in de-
lineating the several objects and limits of different
codes of laws and different tribunals of justice. The
precise extent of the common law, and the statute
law, the maritime law, the ecclesiastical law, the law
of corporations, and other local laws and customs,
remains still to be clearly and finally established
in Great Britain, where accuracy in such subjects
has been more industriously pursued than in any
other part of the world. The jurisdiction of her
several courts, general and local, of law, of equity,
of admiralty, etc., is not less a source of frequent
and intricate discussions, sufficiently denoting the
indeterminate limits by which they are respectively
circumscribed. All new laws, though penned with
the greatest technical skill, and passed on the fullest
and most mature deliberation, are considered as
more or less obscure and equivocal, until their
meaning be liquidated and ascertained by a series
of particular discussions and adjudications. Besides
the obscurity arising from the complexity of objects,
and the imperfection of the human faculties, the
medium through which the conceptions of men are
conveyed to each other adds a fresh embarrassment.
The use of words is to express ideas. Perspicuity,

292 Alexander Hamilton

therefore, requires not only that the ideas should
be distinctly formed, but that they should be ex-
pressed by words distinctly and exclusively appro-
priate to them. But no language is so copious as
to supply words and phrases for every complex idea,
or so correct as not to include many equivocally
denoting different ideas. Hence it must happen
that however accurately objects may be discrimi-
nated in themselves, and however accurately the
discrimination may be considered, the definition of
them may be rendered inaccurate by the inaccuracy
of the terms in which it is delivered. And this un-
avoidable inaccuracy must be greater or less, accord-
ing to the complexity and novelty of the objects
defined. When the Almighty himself condescends
to address mankind in their own language, his
meaning, luminous as it must be, is rendered dim
and doubtful by the cloudy medium through which
it is communicated.

Here, then, are three sources of vague and incor-
rect definitions: indistinctness of the object, imper-
fection of the organ of conception, inadequateness
of the vehicle of ideas. Any one of these must pro-
duce a certain degree of obscurity. The conven-
tion, in delineating the boundary between the federal
and State jurisdictions, must have experienced the
full effect of them all.

To the difficulties already mentioned may be added
the interfering pretensions of the larger and smaller
States. We cannot err in supposing that the former
would contend for a participation in the government,
fully proportioned to their superior wealth and im-

The Federalist 293

portance; and that the latter would not be less
tenacious of the equality at present enjoyed by them.
We may well suppose that neither side would en-
tirely yield to the other, and consequently that the
struggle could be terminated only by compromise.
It is extremely probable, also, that after the ratio
of representation had been adjusted, this very com-
promise must have produced a fresh struggle be-
tween the same parties, to give such a turn to the
organization of the government, and to the distribu-
tion of its powers, as would increase the importance
of the branches, in forming which they had re-
spectively obtained the greatest share of influence.
There are features in the Constitution which warrant
each of these suppositions; and as far as either of
them is well founded, it shows that the convention
must have been compelled to sacrifice theoretical
propriety to the force of extraneous considerations.
Nor could it have been the large and small States
only, which would marshal themselves in opposition
to each other on various points. Other combina-
tions, resulting from a difference of local position
and policy, must have created additional difficulties.
As every State may be divided into different dis-
tricts, and its citizens into different classes, which
give birth to contending interests and local jealousies,
so the different parts of the United States are dis-
tinguished from each other by a variety of circum-
stances, which produce a like effect on a larger scale.
And although this variety of interests, for reasons
sufficiently explained in a former paper, may have
a salutary influence on the administration of the

294 Alexander Hamilton

government when formed, yet every one must be
sensible of the contrary influence, which must have
been experienced in the task of forming it.

Would it be wonderful if, under the pressure of
all these difficulties, the convention should have been
forced into some deviations from that artificial struc-
ture and regular symmetry which an abstract view
of the subject might lead an ingenious theorist to
bestow on a Constitution planned in his closet or in
his imagination? The real wonder is that so many
difficulties should have been surmounted, and sur-
mounted with a unanimity almost as unprecedented
as it must have been unexpected. It is impossible
for any man of candor to reflect on this circumstance
without partaking of the astonishment. It is im-
possible for the man of pious reflection not to per-
ceive in it a finger of that Almighty hand which
has been so frequently and signally extended to our
relief in the critical stages of the revolution.

We had occasion, in a former paper, to take notice
of the repeated trials which have been unsuccess-
fully made in the United Netherlands for reforming
the baneful and notorious vices of their constitution.
The history of almost all the great councils and con-
sultations held among mankind for reconciling their
discordant opinions, assuaging their mutual jealous-
ies, and adjusting their respective interests, is a
history of factions, contentions, and disappoint-
ments, and may be classed among the most dark and
degraded pictures which display the infirmities and
depravities of the human character. If, in a few
scattered instances, a brighter aspect is presented,

The Federalist 295

they serve only as exceptions to admonish us of the
general truth; and by their lustre to darken the
gloom of the adverse prospect to which they are con-
trasted. In revolving the causes from which these
exceptions result, and applying them to the par-
ticular instances before us, we are necessarily led to
two important conclusions. The first is, that the
convention must have enjoyed, in a very singular
degree, an exemption from the pestilential influence
of party animosities — the disease most incident to
deliberative bodies, and most apt to contaminate
their proceedings. The second conclusion is that
all the deputations composing the convention were
satisfactorily accommodated by the final act, or were
induced to accede to it by a deep conviction of the
necessity of sacrificing private opinions and partial
interests to the public good, and by a despair of
seeing this necessity diminished by delays or by new
experiments.

Publius.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, January 15, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XXXVIII

(madison)

To the People of the State of New York:

It is not a little remarkable that in every case re-
ported by ancient history, in which government has
been established with deliberation and consent, the
task of framing it has not been committed to an
assembly of men, but has been performed by some

296 Alexander Hamilton

individual citizen of pre-eminent wisdom and ap-
proved integrity.

Minos, we learn, was the primitive founder of the
government of Crete, as Zaleucus was of that of the
Locrians. Theseus first, and after him Draco and
Solon, instituted the government of Athens. Ly-
curgus was the lawgiver of Sparta. The foundation
of the original government of Rome was laid by
Romulus, and the work completed by two of his
elective successors, Numa and Tullus Hostilius. On
the abolition of royalty the consular administration
was substituted by Brutus, who stepped forward
with a project for such a reform, which, he alleged,
had been prepared by Servius Tullius, and to
which his address obtained the assent and ratification
of the senate and people. This remark is applicable
to confederate governments also. Amphictyon, we
are told, was the author of that which bore his name.
The Achaean league received its first birth from
Achasus, and its second from Aratus.

What degree of agency these reputed lawgivers
might have in their respective establishments, or
how far they might be clothed with the legitimate
authority of the people, cannot in every instance be
ascertained. In some, however, the proceeding was
strictly regular. Draco appears to have been in-
trusted by the people of Athens with indefinite pow-
ers to reform its government and laws. And Solon,
according to Plutarch, was in a manner compelled,
by the universal suffrage of his fellow-citizens, to
take upon him the sole and absolute power of new-
modelling the constitution. The proceedings under

The Federalist 297

Lycurgus were less regular; but as far as the advo-
cates for a regular reform could prevail, they all
turned their eyes towards the single efforts of that
celebrated patriot and sage, instead of seeking to
bring about a revolution by the intervention of a
deliberative body of citizens.

Whence could it have proceeded that a people,
jealous as the Greeks were of their liberty, should so
far abandon the rules of caution as to place their
destiny in the hands of a single citizen? Whence
could it have proceeded, that the Athenians, a people
who would not suffer an army to be commanded by
fewer than ten generals, and who required no other
proof of danger to their liberties than the illustrious
merit of a fellow-citizen, should consider one illus-
trious citizen as a more eligible depositary of the
fortunes of themselves and their posterity, than a
select body of citizens, from whose common delibera-
tions more wisdom, as well as more safety, might
have been expected? These questions cannot be
fully answered, without supposing that the fears of
discord and disunion among a number of counsellors
exceeded the apprehension of treachery or inca-
pacity in a single individual. History informs us,
likewise, of the difficulties with which these cele-
brated reformers had to contend, as well as the ex-
pedients which they were obliged to employ in order
to carry their reforms into effect. Solon, who seems
to have indulged a more temporizing policy, con-
fessed that he had not given to his countrymen the
government best suited to their happiness, but most
tolerable to their prejudices. And Lycurgus, more

298 Alexander Hamilton

true to his object, was under the necessity of mixing
a portion of violence with the authority of supersti-
tion, and of securing his final success by a voluntary
renunciation, first of his country, and then of his life.
If these lessons teach us, on one hand, to admire the
improvement made by America on the ancient mode
of preparing and establishing regular plans of gov-
ernment, they serve not less, on the other, to ad-
monish us of the hazards and difficulties incident to
such experiments, and of the great imprudence of
unnecessarily multiplying them.

Is it an unreasonable conjecture, that the errors
which may be contained in the plan of the convention
are such as have resulted rather from the defect of
antecedent experience on this complicated and diffi-
cult subject, than from a want of accuracy or care in
the investigation of it; and, consequently, such as
will not be ascertained until an actual trial shall have
pointed them out ? This conjecture is rendered prob-
able, not only by many considerations of a general
nature, but by the particular case of the Articles
of Confederation. It is observable that among the
numerous objections and amendments suggested by
the several States, when these articles were sub-
mitted for their ratification, not one is found which
alludes to the great and radical error which on actual
trial has discovered itself. And if we except the
observations which New Jersey was led to make,
rather by her local situation, than by her peculiar
foresight, it may be questioned whether a single
suggestion was of sufficient moment to justify a re-
vision of the system. There is abundant reason,

The Federalist 299

nevertheless, to suppose that immaterial as these
objections were, they would have been adhered to
with a very dangerous inflexibility, in some States,
had not a zeal for their opinions and supposed in-
terests been stifled by the more powerful sentiment
of self-preservation. One State, we may remember,
persisted for several years in refusing her concur-
rence, although the enemy remained the whole pe-
riod at our gates, or rather in the very bowels of our
country. Nor was her pliancy in the end effected
by a less motive, than the fear of being chargeable
with protracting the public calamities, and endan-
gering the event of the contest. Every candid
reader will make the proper reflections on these im-
portant facts.

A patient who finds his disorder daily growing
worse, and that an efficacious remedy can no longer
be delayed without extreme danger, after coolly re-
volving his situation, and the characters of different
physicians, selects and calls in such of them as he
judges most capable of administering relief, and
best entitled to his confidence. The physicians at-
tend ; the case of the patient is carefully examined ;
a consultation is held ; they are unanimously agreed
that the symptoms are critical, but that the case,
with proper and timely relief, so far from being
desperate, may be made to issue in an improve-
ment of his constitution. They are equally unani-
mous in prescribing the remedy, by which this
happy effect is to be produced. The prescription is
no sooner made known, however, than a number of
persons interpose, and, without denying the reality

300 Alexander Hamilton

or danger of the disorder, assure the patient that the
prescription will be poison to his constitution, and
forbid him, under pain of certain death, to make use
of it. Might not the patient reasonably demand,
before he ventured to follow this advice, that the
authors of it should at least agree among themselves
on some other remedy to be substituted ? And if he
found them differing as much from one another as
from his first counsellors, would he not act prudently
in trying the experiment unanimously recommended
by the latter, rather than be hearkening to those who
could neither deny the necessity of a speedy remedy,
nor agree in proposing one?

Such a patient and in such a situation is America
at this moment. She has been sensible of her mal-
ady. She has obtained a regular and unanimous
advice from men of her own deliberate choice. And
she is warned by others against following this advice
under pain of the most fatal consequences. Do the
monitors deny the reality of her danger? No. Do
they deny the necessity of some speedy and powerful
remedy? No. Are they agreed, are any two of
them agreed, in their objections to the remedy pro-
posed, or in the proper one to be substituted? Let
them speak for themselves. This one tells us that
the proposed Constitution ought to be rejected, be-
cause it is not a confederation of the States, but a
government over individuals. Another admits that
it ought to be a government over individuals to a
certain extent, but by no means to the extent pro-
posed. A third does not object to the government
over individuals, or to the extent proposed, but to

The Federalist 301

the want of a bill of rights. A fourth concurs in the
absolute necessity of a bill of rights, but contends
that it ought to be declaratory, not of the personal
rights of individuals, but of the rights reserved to the
States in their political capacity. A fifth is of opinion
that a bill of rights of any sort would be superfluous
and misplaced, and that the plan would be unexcep-
tionable but for the fatal power of regulating the
times and places of election. An objector in a large
State exclaims loudly against the unreasonable equal-
ity of representation in the Senate. An objector in
a small State is equally loud against the dangerous
inequality in the House of Representatives. From
this quarter, we are alarmed with the amazing
expense, from the number of persons who are to
administer the new government. From another
quarter, and sometimes from the same quarter, on
another occasion, the cry is that the Congress will
be but a shadow of a representation, and that the
government would be far less objectionable if the
number and the expense were doubled. A patriot
in a State that does not import or export, discerns
insuperable objections against the power of direct
taxation. The patriotic adversary in a State of
great exports and imports, is not less dissatisfied
that the whole burden of taxes may be thrown on
consumption. This politician discovers in the Con-
stitution a direct and irresistible tendency to mon-
archy ; that is equally sure it will end in aristocracy.
Another is puzzled to say which of these shapes it
will ultimately assume, but sees clearly it must be
one or other of them ; whilst a fourth is not wanting,

302 Alexander Hamilton

who with no less confidence affirms that the Con-
stitution is so far from having a bias towards either
of these dangers, that the weight on that side will
not be sufficient to keep it upright and firm against
its opposite propensities. With another class of ad-
versaries to the Constitution the language is that the
legislative, executive, and judiciary departments are
intermixed in such a manner as to contradict all the
ideas of regular government and all the requisite
precautions in favor of liberty. Whilst this objec-
tion circulates in vague and general expressions,
there are but a few who lend their sanction to it.
Let each one come forward with his particular ex-
planation, and scarce any two are exactly agreed
upon the subject. In the eyes of one the junction
of the Senate with the President in the responsible
function of appointing to offices, instead of vesting
this executive power in the Executive alone, is the
vicious part of the organization. To another, the
exclusion of the House of Representatives, whose
numbers alone could be a due security against cor-
ruption and partiality in the exercise of such a
power, is equally obnoxious. With another, the ad-
mission of the President into any share of a power
which must ever be a dangerous engine in the hands
of the executive magistrate, is an unpardonable
violation of the maxims of republican jealousy. No
part of the arrangement, according to some, is more
inadmissible than the trial of impeachments by the
Senate, which is alternately a member both of the
legislative and executive departments, when this
power so evidently belonged to the judiciary de-

The Federalist 303

partment. " We concur fully/' reply others, " in the
objection to this part of the plan, but we can never
agree that a reference of impeachments to the ju-
diciary authority would be an amendment of the
error. Our principal dislike to the organization
arises from the extensive powers already lodged in
that department." Even among the zealous pa-
trons of a council of state the most irreconcilable
variance is discovered concerning the mode in which
it ought to be constituted. The demand of one
gentleman is, that the council should consist of a
small number to be appointed by the most numerous
branch of the legislature. Another would prefer a
larger number, and considers it as a fundamental
condition that the appointment should be made by
the President himself.

As it can give no umbrage to the writers against
the plan of the federal Constitution, let us suppose,
that as they are the most zealous, so they are also
the most sagacious, of those who think the late con-
vention were unequal to the task assigned them,
and that a wiser and better plan might and ought to
be substituted. Let us further suppose that their
country should concur, both in this favorable opinion
of their merits, and in their unfavorable opinion of
the convention; and should accordingly proceed to
form them into a second convention, with full
powers, and for the express purpose of revising and
remoulding the work of the first. Were the experi-
ment to be seriously made, though it required some
effort to view it seriously even in fiction, I leave it to
be decided by the sample of opinions just exhibited,

3°4 Alexander Hamilton

whether, with all their enmity to their predecessors,
they would, in any one point, depart so widely from
their example, as in the discord and ferment that
would mark their own deliberations; and whether
the Constitution, now before the public, would not
stand as fair a chance for immortality, as Lycurgus
gave to that of Sparta, by making its change to de-
pend on his own return from exile and death, if it
were to be immediately adopted, and were to con-
tinue in force, not until a better, but until another
should be agreed upon by this new assembly of law-
givers.

It is a matter both of wonder and regret, that
those who raise so many objections against the new
Constitution should never call to mind the defects
of that which is to be exchanged for it. It is not
necessary that the former should be perfect: it is
sufficient that the latter is more imperfect. No man
would refuse to give brass for silver or gold, because
the latter had some alloy in it. No man would re-
fuse to quit a shattered and tottering habitation for
a firm and commodious building, because the latter
had not a porch to it, or because some of the rooms
might be a little larger or smaller, or the ceiling a
little higher or lower than his fancy would have
planned them. But waiving illustrations of this
sort, is it not manifest that most of the capital ob-
jections urged against the new system lie with ten-
fold weight against the existing Confederation? Is
an indefinite power to raise money dangerous in the
hands of the federal government ? The present Con-
gress can make requisitions to any amount they

The Federalist 305

please, and the States are constitutionally bound to
furnish them; they can emit bills of credit as long
as they will pay for the paper; they can borrow,
both abroad and at home, as long as a shilling will be
lent. Is an indefinite power to raise troops dan-
gerous? The Confederation gives to Congress that
power also; and they have already begun to make
use of it. Is it improper and unsafe to intermix the
different powers of government in the same body of
men? Congress, a single body of men, are the sole
depositary of all the federal powers. Is it particu-
larly dangerous to give the keys of the treasury, and
the command of the army, into the same hands?
The Confederation places them both in the hands of
Congress. Is a bill of rights essential to liberty?
The Confederation has no bill of rights. Is it an
objection against the new Constitution, that it em-
powers the Senate, with the concurrence of the
Executive, to make treaties which are to be the laws
of the land? The existing Congress, without any
such control, can make treaties which they them-
selves have declared, and most of the States have
recognized, to be the supreme law of the land. Is
the importation of slaves permitted by the new
Constitution for twenty years? By the old it is
permitted forever.

I shall be told, that however dangerous this mix-
ture of powers may be in theory, it is rendered harm-
less by the dependence of Congress on the States for
the means of carrying them into practice ; that how-
ever large the mass of powers may be, it is in fact a
lifeless mass. Then, say I, in the first place, that

VOL. XI. -20.

3°6 Alexander Hamilton

the Confederation is chargeable with the still greater
folly of declaring certain powers in the federal gov-
ernment to be absolutely necessary, and at the same
time rendering them absolutely nugatory; and, in
the next place, that if the Union is to continue, and
no better government be substituted, effective pow-
ers must either be granted to, or assumed by, the
existing Congress; in either of which events, the con-
trast just stated will hold good. But this is not all.
Out of this lifeless mass has already grown an ex-
crescent power, which tends to realize all the dangers
that can be apprehended from a defective construc-
tion of the supreme government of the Union. It is
now no longer a point of speculation and hope, that
the Western territory is a mine of vast wealth to
the United States; and although it is not of such
a nature as to extricate them from their present
distresses, or, for some time to come, to yield any
regular supplies for the public expenses, yet must it
hereafter be able, under proper management, both
to effect a gradual discharge of the domestic debt,
and to furnish, for a certain period, liberal tributes
to the federal treasury. A very large proportion of
this fund has been already surrendered by individual
States ; and it may with reason be expected that the
remaining States will not persist in withholding
similar proofs of their equity and generosity. We
may calculate, therefore, that a rich and fertile
country, of an area equal to the inhabited extent of
the United States, will soon become a national stock.
Congress have assumed the administration of this
stock. They have begun to render it productive.

The Federalist 307

Congress have undertaken to do more: they have
proceeded to form new States, to erect temporary
governments, to appoint officers for them, and to
prescribe the conditions on which such States shall
be admitted into the Confederacy. All this has been
done ; and done without the least color of constitu-
tional authority. Yet no blame has been whispered ;
no alarm has been sounded. A great and indepen-
dent fund of revenue is passing into the hands of a
single body of men, who can raise troops to an
indefinite number, and appropriate money to their
support for an indefinite period of time. And
yet there are men, who have not only been silent
spectators of this prospect, but who are advocates for
the system which exhibits it ; and, at the same time,
urge against the new system the objections which
we have heard. Would they not act with more con-
sistency, in urging the establishment of the latter,
as no less necessary to guard the Union against the
future powers and resources of a body constructed
like the existing Congress, than to save it from the
dangers threatened by the present impotency of
that Assembly?

I mean not, by any thing here said, to throw cen-
sure on the measures which have been pursued by
Congress. I am sensible they could not have done
otherwise. The public interest, the necessity of the
case, imposed upon them the task of overleaping
their constitutional limits. But is not the fact an
alarming proof of the danger resulting from a gov-
ernment which does not possess regular powers
commensurate to its objects? A dissolution or

308 Alexander Hamilton

usurpation is the dreadful dilemma to which it is
continually exposed.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal

WHE FEDERALIST. No. XXXIX

(madison)

To the People of the State of New York:

The last paper having concluded the observations
which were meant to introduce a candid survey of
the plan of government reported by the convention,
we now proceed to the execution of that part of our
undertaking.

The first question that offers itself is, whether
the general form and aspect of the government be
strictly republican. It is evident that no other
form would be reconcilable with the genius of the
people of America; with the fundamental principles
of the Revolution ; or with that honorable determina-
tion which animates every votary of freedom, to
rest all our political experiments on the capacity of
mankind for self-government. If the plan of the
convention, therefore, be found to depart from the
republican character, its advocates must abandon
it as no longer defensible.

What, then, are the distinctive characters of the
republican form? Were an answer to this question
to be sought, not by recurring to principles, but in
the application of the term by political writers, to
the constitutions of different States, no satisfactory
one would ever be found. Holland, in which no

The Federalist 309

particle of the supreme authority is derived from
the people, has passed almost universally under the
denomination of a republic. The same title has
been bestowed on Venice, where absolute power over
the great body of the people is exercised, in the most
absolute manner, by a small body of hereditary
nobles. Poland, which is a mixture of aristocracy
and of monarchy in their worst forms, has been
dignified with the same appellation. The govern-
ment of England, which has one republican branch
only, combined with an hereditary aristocracy and
monarchy, has, with equal impropriety, been fre-
quently placed on the list of republics. These ex-
amples, which are nearly as dissimilar to each other
as to a genuine republic, show the extreme inac-
curacy with which the term has been used in po-
litical disquisitions.

If we resort for a criterion to the different prin-
ciples on which different forms of government are
established, we may define a republic to be, or at
least may bestow that name on, a government which
derives all its powers directly or indirectly from the
great body of the people, and is administered by
persons holding their offices during pleasure, for a
limited period, or during good behavior. It is es-
sential to such a government that it be derived from
the great body of the society, not from an incon-
siderable proportion, or a favored class of it ; other-
wise a handful of tyrannical nobles, exercising their
oppressions by a delegation of their powers, might
aspire to the rank of republicans, and claim for their
government the honorable title of republic. It is

310 Alexander Hamilton

sufficient for such a government that the persons ad-
ministering it be appointed, either directly or in-
directly, by the people; and that they hold their
appointments by either of the tenures just specified;
otherwise every government in the United States,
as well as every other popular government that has
been or can be well organized or well executed,
would be degraded from the republican character.
According to the constitution of every State in the
Union, some or other of the officers of government
are appointed indirectly only by the people. Ac-
cording to most of them, the chief magistrate himself
is so appointed. And according to one, this mode
of appointment is extended to one of the coordinate
branches of the legislature. According to all the
constitutions, also, the tenure of the highest offices
is extended to a definite period, and in many in-
stances, both within the legislative and executive
departments, to a period of years. According to the
provisions of most of the constitutions, again, as well
as according to the most respectable and received
opinions on the subject, the members of the judiciary
department are to retain their offices by the firm
tenure of good behavior.

On comparing the Constitution planned by the
convention with the standard here fixed, we per-
ceive at once that it is, in the most rigid sense, con-
formable to it. The House of Representatives, like
that of one branch at least of all the State legisla-
tures, is elected immediately by the great body of
the people. The Senate, like the present Congress,
and the Senate of Maryland, derives its appointment

The Federalist 3"

indirectly from the people. The President is in-
directly derived from the choice of the people, ac-
cording to the example in most of the States. Even
the judges, with all other officers of the Union, will,
as in the several States, be the choice, though a re-
mote choice, of the people themselves. The dura-
tion of the appointments is equally conformable to
the republican standard, and to the model of State
constitutions. The House of Representatives is
periodically elective, as in all the States; and for
the period of two years, as in the State of South
Carolina. The Senate is elective, for the period of
six years; which is but one year more than the
period of the Senate of Maryland, and but two more
than that of the Senates of New York and Virginia.
The President is to continue in office for the period
of four years; as in New York and Delaware the
chief magistrate is elected for three years, and in
South Carolina for two years. In the other States
the election is annual. In several of the States,
however, no constitutional provision is made for the
impeachment of the chief magistrate. And in Dela-
ware and Virginia he is not impeachable till out of
office. The President of the United States is im-
peachable at any time during his continuance in
office. The tenure by which the judges are to hold
their places, is, as it unquestionably ought to be,
that of good behavior. The tenure of the minis-
terial offices generally, will be a subject of legal regu-
lation, conformably to the reason of the case and the
example of the State constitutions.

Could any further proof be required of the repub-

312 Alexander Hamilton

lican complexion of this system, the most decisive
one might be found in its absolute prohibition of
titles of nobility, both under the federal and the
State governments; and in its express guaranty of
the republican form to each of the latter.

" But it was not sufficient," say the adversaries
of the proposed Constitution, "for the convention to
adhere to the republican form. They ought, with
equal care, to have preserved the federal form, which
regards the Union as a Confederacy of sovereign
states; instead of which, they have framed a na-
tional government, which regards the Union as a
consolidation of the States." And it is asked by
what authority this bold and radical innovation was
undertaken? The handle which has been made of
this objection requires that it should be examined
with some precision.

Without inquiring into the accuracy of the dis-
tinction on which the objection is founded, it will
be necessary to a just estimate of its force, first,
to ascertain the real character of the government
in question; secondly, to inquire how far the con-
vention were authorized to propose such a govern-
ment ; and thirdly, how far the duty they owed to
their country could supply any defect of regular
authority.

First. — In order to ascertain the real character of
the government, it may be considered in relation to
the foundation on which it is to be established;
to the sources from which its ordinary powers
are to be drawn ; to the operation of those powers ;
to the extent of them; and to the authority by

The Federalist 3!3

which future changes in the government are to be
introduced.

On examining the first relation, it appears, on one
hand, that the Constitution is to be founded on
the assent and ratification of the people of America,
given by deputies elected for the special purpose;
but, on the other, that this assent and ratification is
to be given by the people, not as individuals com-
posing one entire nation, but as composing the
distinct and independent States to which they re-
spectively belong. It is to be the assent and ratifica-
tion of the several States, derived from the supreme
authority in each State, — the authority of the people
themselves. The act, therefore, establishing the
Constitution, will not be a national, but a federal act.

That it will be a federal and not a national act, as
these terms are understood by the objectors; the
act of the people, as forming so many independent
States, not as forming one aggregate nation, is ob-
vious from this single consideration, that it is to
result neither from the decision of a majority of the
people of the Union, nor from that of a majority of
the States. It must result from the unanimous as-
sent of the several States that are parties to it,
differing no otherwise from their ordinary assent
than in its being expressed, not by the legislative
authority, but by that of the people themselves.
Were the people regarded in this transaction as
forming one nation, the will of the majority of the
whole people of the United States would bind the
minority, in the same manner as the majority in
each State must bind the minority; and the will of

314 Alexander Hamilton

the majority must be determined either by a com-
parison of the individual votes, or by considering the
will of the majority of the States as evidence of the
will of a majority of the people of the United States.
Neither of these rules has been adopted. Each
State, in ratifying the Constitution, is considered as
a sovereign body, independent of all others, and only
to be bound by its own voluntary act. In this rela-
tion, then, the new Constitution will, if established,
be a federal, and not a national constitution.

The next relation is, to the sources from which the
ordinary powers of government are to be derived.
The House of Representatives will derive its powers
from the people of America; and the people will be
represented in the same proportion, and on the same
principle, as they are in the legislature of a particular
State. So far the government is national, not fed-
eral. The Senate, on the other hand, will derive its
powers from the States, as political and coequal so-
cieties; and these will be represented on the prin-
ciple of equality in the Senate, as they now are in
the existing Congress. So far the government is
federal, not national. The executive power will be
derived from a very compound source. The immedi-
ate election of the President is to be made by the
States in their political characters. The votes al-
lotted to them are in a compound ratio, which con-
siders them partly as distinct and coequal societies,
partly as unequal members of the same society. The
eventual election, again, is to be made by that branch
of the legislature which consists of the national re-
presentatives; but in this particular act they are to

The Federalist 315

be thrown into the form of individual delegations,
from so many distinct and coequal bodies politic.
From this aspect of the government, it appears to
be of a mixed character, presenting at least as many
federal as national features.

The difference between a federal and national
government, as it relates to the operation of the
government, is supposed to consist in this, that in
the former the powers operate on the political bodies
composing the Confederacy, in their political capac-
ities; in the latter, on the individual citizens com-
posing the nation, in their individual capacities. On
trying the Constitution by this criterion, it falls
under the national, not the federal character ; though
perhaps not so completely as has been understood.
In several cases, and particularly in the trial of con-
troversies to which States may be parties, they must
be viewed and proceeded against in their collective
and political capacities only. So far the national
countenance of the government on this side seems
to be disfigured by a few federal features. But this
blemish is perhaps unavoidable in any plan; and
the operation of the government on the people, in
their individual capacities, in its ordinary and most
essential proceedings, may, on the whole, designate
it, in this relation, a national government.

But if the government be national with regard to
the operation of its powers, it changes its aspect
again when we contemplate it in relation to the ex-
tent of its powers. The idea of a national govern-
ment involves in it, not only an authority over the
individual citizens, but an indefinite supremacy over

316 Alexander Hamilton

all persons and things, so far as they are objects of
lawful government. Among a people consolidated
into one nation, this supremacy is completely vested
in the national legislature. Among communities
united for particular purposes, it is vested partly in
the general and partly in the municipal legislatures.
In the former case, all local authorities are subordi-
nate to the supreme; and may be controlled, di-
rected, or abolished by it at pleasure. In the latter,
the local or municipal authorities form distinct and
independent portions of the supremacy, no more
subject, within their respective spheres, to the gen-
eral authority, than the general authority is subject
to them, within its own sphere. In this relation,
then, the proposed government cannot be deemed a
national one ; since its jurisdiction extends to certain
enumerated objects only, and leaves to the several
States a residuary and inviolable sovereignty over all
other objects. It is true that in controversies relat-
ing to the boundary between the two jurisdictions, the
tribunal which is ultimately to decide, is to be estab-
lished under the general government. But this does
not change the principle of the case. The decision is
to be impartially made, according to the rules of the
Constitution ; and all the usual and most effectual pre-
cautions are taken to secure this impartiality. Some
such tribunal is clearly essential to prevent an appeal
to the sword and a dissolution of the compact ; and that
it ought to be established under the general rather
than under the local governments, or, to speak more
properly, that it could be safely established under the
first alone, is a position not likely to be combated.

The Federalist 317

If we try the Constitution by its last relation to
the authority by which amendments are to be made,
we find it neither wholly national nor wholly federal.
Were it wholly national, the supreme and ultimate
authority would reside in the majority of the people
of the Union; and this authority would be com-
petent at all times, like that of a majority of every
national society, to alter or abolish its established
government. Were it wholly federal, on the other
hand, the concurrence of each State in the Union
would be essential to every alteration that would be
binding on all. The mode provided by the plan of
the convention is not founded on either of these
principles. In requiring more than a majority, and
particularly in computing the proportion by States,
not by citizens, it departs from the national and ad-
vances towards the federal character; in rendering
the concurrence of less than the whole number of
States sufficient, it loses again the federal and par-
takes of the national character.

The proposed Constitution, therefore, is, in strict-
ness, neither a national nor a federal Constitution,
but a composition of both. In its foundation, it is
federal, not national; in the sources from which the
ordinary powers of the government are drawn, it is
partly federal and partly national; in the operation
of these powers, it is national, not federal; in the
extent of them, again, it is federal, not national;
and, finally, in the authoritative mode of introducing
amendments, it is neither wholly federal nor wholly
national.

Publius.

318 Alexander Hamilton

From the New York Packet, Friday, January 18, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XL

(madison)

To the People of the State of New York:

The second point to be examined is, whether the
convention were authorized to frame and propose
this mixed Constitution.

The powers of the convention ought, in strictness,
to be determined by an inspection of the commis-
sions given to the members by their respective con-
stituents. As all of these, however, had reference,
either to the recommendation from the meeting at
Annapolis, in September, 1786, or to that from Con-
gress, in February, 1787, it will be sufficient to recur
to these particular acts.

The act from Annapolis recommends the " appoint-
ment of commissioners to take into consideration the
situation of the United States; to devise such fur-
ther provisions as shall appear to them necessary to
render the Constitution of the federal government
adequate to the exigencies of the Union; and to report
such an act for that purpose, to the United States in
Congress assembled, as when agreed to by them, and
afterwards confirmed by the legislature of every
State, will effectually provide for the same."

The recommendatory act of Congress is in the
words following: "Whereas, there is provision in
the articles of Confederation and perpetual Union,
for making alterations therein, by the assent of a
Congress of the United States, and of the legislatures
of the several States; and whereas experience hath

The Federalist 319

evinced, that there are defects in the present Con-
federation; as a mean to remedy which, several of
the States, and particularly the State of New York,
by express instructions to their delegates in Con-
gress, have suggested a convention for the purposes
expressed in the following resolution ; and such con-
vention appearing to be the most probable mean of
establishing in these States a firm national govern-
ment:

11 Resolved, — That in the opinion of Congress it is
expedient, that on the second Monday of May next
a convention of delegates, who shall have been ap-
pointed by the several States, be held at Philadelphia,
for the sole and express purpose of revising the articles
of Confederation, and reporting to Congress and the
several legislatures such alterations and provisions
therein, as shall, when agreed to in Congress, and
confirmed by the States, render the federal Consti-
tution adequate to the exigencies of government and
the preservation of the Union."

From these two acts, it appears, 1st, that the
object of the convention was to establish, in these
States, a firm national government; 2d, that this gov-
ernment was to be such as would be adequate to the
exigencies of government and the preservation of the
Union; 3d, that these purposes were to be effected
by alterations and provisions in the articles of Con-
federation, as it is expressed in the act of Congress, or
by such further provisions as should appear necessary,
as it stands in the recommendatory act from Anna-
polis; 4th, that the alterations and provisions were
to be reported to Congress, and to the States, in

320 Alexander Hamilton

order to be agreed to by the former and confirmed
by the latter.

From a comparison and fair construction of these
several modes of expression, is to be deduced the
authority under which the convention acted. They
were to frame a national government, adequate to the
exigencies of government, and of the Union; and to
reduce the articles of Confederation into such form
as to accomplish these purposes. There are two
rules of construction, dictated by plain reason, as
well as founded on legal axioms. The one is, that
every part of the expression ought, if possible, to be
allowed some meaning, and be made to conspire to
some common end. The other is, that where the
several parts cannot be made to coincide, the less
important should give way to the more important
part; the means should be sacrificed to the end,
rather than the end to the means.

Suppose, then, that the expressions defining the
authority of the convention were irreconcilably at
variance with each other ; that a national and adequate
government could not possibly, in the judgment of the
convention, be effected by alterations and provisions
in the articles of Confederation; which part of the
definition ought to have been embraced, and which
rejected? Which was the more important, which
the less important part ? Which the end ; which the
means ? Let the most scrupulous expositors of dele-
gated powers; let the most inveterate objectors
against those exercised by the convention, answer
these questions. Let them declare, whether it was
of most importance to the happiness of the people

The Federalist 321

of America, that the articles of Confederation should
be disregarded, and an adequate government be
provided, and the Union preserved; or that an ade-
quate government should be omitted, and the arti-
cles of Confederation preserved. Let them declare,
whether the preservation of these articles was the
end, for securing which a reform of the government
was to be introduced as the means; or whether the
establishment of a government, adequate to the na-
tional happiness, was the end at which these arti-
cles themselves originally aimed, and to which they
ought, as insufficient means, to have been sacrificed.

But is it necessary to suppose that these expres-
sions are absolutely irreconcilable to each other;
that no alterations or provisions in the articles of the
Confederation could possibly mould them into a na-
tional and adequate government; into such a gov-
ernment as has been proposed by the convention ?

No stress, it is presumed, will, in this case, be laid
on the title; a change of that could never be deemed
an exercise of ungranted power. Alterations in the
body of the instrument are expressly authorized.
New provisions therein are also expressly authorized.
Here then is a power to change the title; to insert
new articles ; to alter old ones. Must it of necessity
be admitted that this power is infringed, so long as a
part of the old articles remain? Those who main-
tain the affirmative ought at least to mark the
boundary between authorized and usurped innova-
tions; between that degree of change which lies
within the compass of alterations and further pro-
visions, and that which amounts to a transmutation of

VOL. XI.— 21.

322 Alexander Hamilton

the government. Will it be said that the alterations
ought not to have touched the substance of the
Confederation? The States would never have ap-
pointed a convention with so much solemnity, nor
described its objects with so much latitude, if some
substantial reform had not been in contemplation.
Will it be said that the fundamental principles of the
Confederation were not within the purview of the
convention, and ought not to have been varied ? I
ask, What are these principles? Do they require
that, in the establishment of the Constitution, the
States should be regarded as distinct and inde-
pendent sovereigns? They are so regarded by the
Constitution proposed. Do they require that the
members of the government should derive their ap-
pointment from the legislatures, not from the people
of the States ? One branch of the new government is
to be appointed by these legislatures ; and under the
Confederation, the delegates to Congress may all be
appointed immediately by the people, and in two
States * are actually so appointed. Do they require
that the powers of the government should act on
the States, and not immediately on individuals? In
some instances, as has been shown, the powers of the
new government will act on the States in their col-
lective characters. In some instances, also, those of
the existing government act immediately on indi-
viduals. In cases of captures; of piracy; of the post-
office; of coins, weights, and measures; of trade with
the Indians ; of claims under grants of land by differ-
ent States; and, above all, in the case of trials by

1 Connecticut and Rhode Island. — Publius.

The Federalist 323

courts-martial in the army and navy, by which
death may be inflicted without the intervention of a
jury, or even of a civil magistrate ; — in all these cases
the powers of the Confederation operate immediately
on the persons and interests of individual citizens.
Do these fundamental principles require, particu-
larly, that no tax should be levied without the inter-
mediate agency of the States? The Confederation
itself authorizes a direct tax, to a certain extent, on
the post-office. The power of coinage has been so
construed by Congress as to levy a tribute im-
mediately from that source also. But pretermitting
these instances, was it not an acknowledged object
of the convention and the universal expectation of
the people, that the regulation of trade should be
submitted to the general government in such a form
as would render it an immediate source of general
revenue? Had not Congress repeatedly recom-
mended this measure as not inconsistent with the
fundamental principles of the Confederation? Had
not every State but one ; had not New York herself,
so far complied with the plan of Congress as to recog-
nize the principle of the innovation ? Do these prin-
ciples, in fine, require that the powers of the general
government should be limited, and that, beyond this
limit, the States should be left in possession of their
sovereignty and independence? We have seen that
in the new government, as in the old, the general
powers are limited; and that the States, in all un-
enumerated cases, are left in the enjoyment of their
sovereign and independent jurisdiction.

The truth is, that the great principles of the Con-

324 Alexander Hamilton

stitution proposed by the convention may be con-
sidered less as absolutely new, than as the expansion
of principles which are found in the articles of Con-
federation. The misfortune under the latter system
has been, that these principles are so feeble and con-
fined as to justify all the charges of inefficiency
which have been urged against it, and to require a
degree of enlargement which gives to the new system
the aspect of an entire transformation of the old.

In one particular it is admitted that the conven-
tion have departed from the tenor of their commis-
sion. Instead of reporting a plan requiring the
confirmation of the legislatures of all the States, they
have reported a plan which is to be confirmed by the
people, and may be carried into effect by nine States
only. It is worthy of remark that this objection,
though the most plausible, has been the least urged
in the publications which have swarmed against the
convention. The forbearance can only have pro-
ceeded from an irresistible conviction of the ab-
surdity of subjecting the fate of twelve States to the
perverseness or corruption of a thirteenth ; from the
example of inflexible opposition given by a majority
of one sixtieth of the people of America to a measure
approved and called for by the voice of twelve
States, comprising fifty-nine sixtieths of the people —
an example still fresh in the memory and indigna-
tion of every citizen who has felt for the wounded
honor and prosperity of his country. As this ob-
jection, therefore, has been in a manner waived by
those who have criticised the powers of the conven-
tion, I dismiss it without further observation.

The Federalist 325

The third point to be inquired into is, how far
considerations of duty arising out of the case itself
could have supplied any defect of regular authority.

In the preceding inquiries the powers of the con-
vention have been analyzed and tried with the same
rigor, and by the same rules, as if they had been real
and final powers for the establishment of a Constitu-
tion for the United States. We have seen in what
manner they have borne the trial even on that sup-
position. It is time now to recollect that the powers
were merely advisory and recommendatory; that
they were so meant by the States, and so understood
by the convention ; and that the latter have accord-
ingly planned and proposed a Constitution which is
to be of no more consequence than the paper on
which it is written, unless it be stamped with the
approbation of those to whom it is addressed. This
reflection places the subject in a point of view alto-
gether different, and will enable us to judge with
propriety of the course taken by the convention.

Let us view the ground on which the convention
stood. It may be collected from their proceedings,
that they were deeply and unanimously impressed
with the crisis, which had led their country almost
with one voice to make so singular and solemn an
experiment for correcting the errors of a system by
which this crisis had been produced ; that they were
no less deeply and unanimously convinced that such
a reform as they have proposed was absolutely neces-
sary to effect the purposes of their appointment. It
could not be unknown to them that the hopes and
expectations of the great body of citizens, throughout

326 Alexander Hamilton

this great empire, were turned with the keenest
anxiety to the event of their deliberations. They
had every reason to believe that the contrary senti-
ments agitated the minds and bosoms of every
external and internal foe to the liberty and pro-
sperity of the United States. They had seen in the
origin and progress of the experiment, the alacrity
with which the proposition, made by a single State
(Virginia), towards a partial amendment of the
Confederation, had been attended to and promoted.
They had seen the liberty assumed by a very jew depu-
ties from a very jew States, convened at Annapolis,
of recommending a great and critical object, wholly
foreign to their commission, not only justified by the
public opinion, but actually carried into effect by
twelve out of the thirteen States. They had seen,
in a variety of instances, assumptions by Congress,
not only of recommendatory, but of operative,
powers, warranted, in the public estimation, by
occasions and objects infinitely less urgent than those
by which their conduct was to be governed. They
must have reflected, that in all great changes of
established governments, forms ought to give way to
substance; that a rigid adherence in such cases to
the former, would render nominal and nugatory the
transcendent and precious right of the people to
"abolish or alter their governments as to them
shall seem most likely to effect their safety and
happiness," x since it is impossible for the people
spontaneously and universally to move in concert
towards their object; and it is therefore essential

1 Declaration of Independence. — Publius.

The Federalist 327

that such changes be instituted by some informal
and unauthorized propositions \ made by some patri-
otic and respectable citizen or number of citizens.
They must have recollected that it was by this ir-
regular and assumed privilege of proposing to the
people plans for their safety and happiness, that the
States were first united against the danger with
which they were threatened by their ancient govern-
ment; that committees and congresses were formed
for concentrating their efforts and defending their
rights; and that conventions were elected in the
several States for establishing the constitutions under
which they are now governed ; nor could it have been
forgotten that no little ill-timed scruples, no zeal
for adhering to ordinary forms, were anywhere seen,
except in those who wished to indulge, under these
masks, their secret enmity to the substance con-
tended for. They must have borne in mind, that as
the plan to be framed and proposed was to be sub-
mitted to the people themselves, the disapprobation of
this supreme authority would destroy it forever; its
approbation blot out antecedent errors and irregu-
larities. It might even have occurred to them, that
where a disposition to cavil prevailed, their neglect
to execute the degree of power vested in them, and
still more their recommendation of any measure
whatever, not warranted by their commission, would
not less excite animadversion, than a recommenda-
tion at once of a measure fully commensurate to the
national exigencies.

Had the convention, under all these impressions,
and in the midst of all these considerations, instead

328 Alexander Hamilton

of exercising a manly confidence in their country, by
whose confidence they had been so peculiarly dis-
tinguished, and of pointing out a system capable, in
their judgment, of securing its happiness, taken the
cold and sullen resolution of disappointing its ardent
hopes, of sacrificing substance to forms, of com-
mitting the dearest interests of their country to the
uncertainties of delay and the hazard of events, let
me ask the man who can raise his mind to one ele-
vated conception, who can awaken in his bosom one
patriotic emotion, what judgment ought to have
been pronounced by the impartial world, by the
friends of mankind, by every virtuous citizen, on the
conduct and character of this assembly ? Or if there
be a man whose propensity to condemn is susceptible
of no control, let me then ask what sentence he has
in reserve for the twelve States, who usurped the
power of sending deputies to the convention, a body
utterly unknown to their constitutions; for Con-
gress, who recommended the appointment of this
body, equally unknown to the Confederation; and
for the State of New York, in particular, which first
urged and then complied with this unauthorized
interposition ?

But that the objectors may be disarmed of every
pretext, it shall be granted for a moment that the
convention were neither authorized by their com-
mission, nor justified by circumstances in proposing
a Constitution for their country : does it follow that
the Constitution ought, for that reason alone, to be
rejected? If, according to the noble precept, it be
lawful to accept good advice even from an enemy,

The Federalist 329

shall we set the ignoble example of refusing such
advice even when it is offered by our friends? The
prudent inquiry, in all cases, ought surely to be, not
so much from whom the advice comes, as whether the
advice be good.

The sum of what has been here advanced and
proved is, that the charge against the convention of
exceeding their powers, except in one instance little
urged by the objectors, has no foundation to sup-
port it; that if they had exceeded their powers, they
were not only warranted, but required, as the con-
fidential servants of their country, by the circum-
stances in which they were placed, to exercise the
liberty which they assumed ; and that finally, if they
had violated both their powers and their obligations,
in proposing a Constitution, this ought nevertheless
to be embraced, if it be calculated to accomplish the
views and happiness of the people of America. How
far this character is due to the Constitution, is the
subject under investigation.

Publius.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XLI

(madison)

To the People of the State of New York:

The Constitution proposed by the convention
may be considered under two general points of view.
The first relates to the sum or quantity of power
which it vests in the government, including the re-
straints imposed on the States. The second, to the

330 Alexander Hamilton

particular structure of the government, and the dis-
tribution of this power among its several branches.

Under the first view of the subject, two important
questions arise: i. Whether any part of the powers
transferred to the general government be unneces-
sary or improper? 2. Whether the entire mass of
them be dangerous to the portion of jurisdiction left
in the several States?

Is the aggregate power of the general government
greater than ought to have been vested in it? This
is the first question.

It cannot have escaped those who have attended
with candor to the arguments employed against the
extensive powers of the government, that the au-
thors of them have very little considered how far
these powers were necessary means of attaining a
necessary end. They have chosen rather to dwell
on the inconveniences which must be unavoidably
blended with all political advantages; and on the
possible abuses which must be incident to every
power or trust, of which a beneficial use can be made.
This method of handling the subject cannot impose
on the good sense of the people of America. It
may display the subtlety of the writer; it may open
a boundless field for rhetoric and declamation; it
may inflame the passions of the unthinking, and may
confirm the prejudices of the misthinking: but cool
and candid people will at once reflect, that the purest
of human blessings must have a portion of alloy in
them; that the choice must always be made, if not
of the lesser evil, at least of the greater, not the
perfect, good; and that in every political institu-

The Federalist 33 T

tion, a power to advance the public happiness in-
volves a discretion which may be misapplied and
abused. They will see, therefore, that in all cases
where power is to be conferred, the point first to be
decided is, whether such a power be necessary to the
public good ; as the next will be, in case of an affirma-
tive decision,to guard as effectually as possible against
a perversion of the power to the public detriment.

That we may form a correct judgment on this sub-
ject, it will be proper to review the several powers
conferred on the government of the Union ; and that
this may be the more conveniently done they may
be reduced into different classes as they relate to
the following different objects: i. Security against
foreign danger; 2. Regulation of the intercourse with
foreign nations; 3. Maintenance of harmony and
proper intercourse among the States ; 4. Certain mis-
cellaneous objects of general utility; 5. Restraint of
the States from certain injurious acts; 6. Provisions
for giving due efficacy to all these powers.

The powers falling within the first class are those
of declaring war and granting letters of marque; of
providing armies and fleets ; of regulating and calling
forth the militia; of levying and borrowing money.

Security against foreign danger is one of the primi-
tive objects of civil society. It is an avowed and
essential object of the American Union. The powers
requisite for attaining it must be effectually confided
to the federal councils.

Is the power of declaring war necessary? No man
will answer this question in the negative. It would
be superfluous, therefore, to enter into a proof of the

332 Alexander Hamilton

affirmative. The existing Confederation establishes
this power in the most ample form.

Is the power of raising armies and equipping fleets
necessary ? This is involved in the foregoing power.
It is involved in the power of self-defence.

But was it necessary to give an indefinite power
of raising troops, as well as providing fleets; and of
maintaining both in peace, as well as in war?

The answer to these questions has been too far
anticipated in another place to admit an extensive
discussion of them in this place. The answer indeed
seems to be so obvious and conclusive as scarcely to
justify such a discussion in any place. With what
color of propriety could the force necessary for de-
fence be limited by those who cannot limit the force
of offence? If a federal Constitution could chain
the ambition or set bounds to the exertions of all
other nations, then indeed might it prudently chain
the discretion of its own government, and set bounds
to the exertions for its own safety.

How could a readiness for war in time of peace be
safely prohibited, unless we could prohibit, in like
manner, the preparations and establishments of
every hostile nation? The means of security can
only be regulated by the means and the danger of
attack. They will, in fact, be ever determined by
these rules, and by no others. It is in vain to oppose
constitutional barriers to the impulse of self-preserva-
tion. It is worse than in vain; because it plants
in the Constitution itself necessary usurpations of
power, every precedent of which is a germ of un-
necessary and multiplied repetitions. If one nation

The Federalist 333

maintains constantly a disciplined army, ready for
the service of ambition or revenge, it obliges the most
pacific nations who may be within the reach of its
enterprises to take corresponding precautions. The
fifteenth century was the unhappy epoch of military
establishments in the time of peace. They were in-
troduced by Charles VII. of France. All Europe has
followed, or been forced into, the example. Had the
example not been followed by other nations, all
Europe must long ago have worn the chains of a uni-
versal monarch. Were every nation except France
now to disband its peace establishments, the same
event might follow. The veteran legions of Rome
were an overmatch for the undisciplined valor of all
other nations, and rendered her the mistress of the
world.

Not the less true is it, that the liberties of Rome
proved the final victim to her military triumphs ; and
that the liberties of Europe, as far as they ever
existed, have, with few exceptions, been the price
of her military establishments. A standing force,
therefore, is a dangerous, at the same time that it
may be a necessary, provision. On the smallest
scale it has its inconveniences. On an extensive
scale its consequences may be fatal. On any scale
it is an object of laudable circumspection and pre-
caution. A wise nation will combine all these con-
siderations; and, whilst it does not rashly preclude
itself from any resource which may become essential
to its safety, will exert all its prudence in diminishing
both the necessity and the danger of resorting to one
which may be inauspicious to its liberties.

334 Alexander Hamilton

The clearest marks of this prudence are stamped
on the proposed Constitution. The Union itself,
which it cements and secures, destroys every pretext
for a military establishment which could be danger-
ous. America united, with a handful of troops, or
without a single soldier, exhibits a more forbidding
posture to foreign ambition than America disunited,
with a hundred thousand veterans ready for combat.
It was remarked, on a former occasion, that the want
of this pretext had saved the liberties of one nation
in Europe. Being rendered byrher insular situation
and her maritime resources impregnable to the ar-
mies of her neighbors, the rulers of Great Britain
have never been able, by real or artificial dangers, to
cheat the public into an extensive peace establish-
ment. The distance of the United States from the
powerful nations of the world gives them the same
happy security. A dangerous establishment can
never be necessary or plausible, so long as they con-
tinue a united people. But let it never, for a mo-
ment, be forgotten, that they are indebted for this
advantage to the Union alone. The moment of its
dissolution will be the date of a new order of things.
The fears of the weaker, or the ambition of the
stronger States, or Confederacies, will set the same
example in the New, as Charles VII. did in the Old
World. The example will be followed here from the
same motives which produced universal imitation
there. Instead of deriving from our situation the
precious advantage which Great Britain has derived
from hers, the face of America will be but a copy
of that of the continent of Europe. It will present

The Federalist 335

liberty everywhere crushed between standing ar-
mies and perpetual taxes. The fortunes of dis-
united America will be even more disastrous than
those of Europe. The sources of evil in the latter
are confined to her own limits. No superior powers
of another quarter of the globe intrigue among her
rival nations, inflame their mutual animosities, and
render them the instruments of foreign ambition,
jealousy, and revenge. In America the miseries
springing from her internal jealousies, contentions,
and wars, would form a part only of her lot. A
plentiful addition of evils would have their source
in that relation in which Europe stands to this
quarter of the earth, and which no other quarter of
the earth bears to Europe.

This picture of the consequences of disunion can-
not be too highly colored, or too often exhibited.
Every man who loves peace, every man who loves
his country, every man who loves liberty, ought to
have it ever before his eyes, that he may cherish in
his heart a due attachment to the Union of America,
and be able to set a due value on the means of pre-
serving it.

Next to the effectual establishment of the Union,
the best possible precaution against danger from
standing armies is a limitation of the term for which
revenue may be appropriated to their support. This
precaution the Constitution has piudently added. I
will not repeat here the observations which I flat-
ter myself have placed this subject in a just and
satisfactory light. But it may not be improper to
take notice of an argument against this part of the

33^ Alexander Hamilton

Constitution, which has been drawn from the policy
and practice of Great Britain. It is said that the
continuance of an army in that kingdom requires an
annual vote of the legislature ; whereas the American
Constitution has lengthened this critical period to
two years. This is the form in which the comparison
is usually stated to the public: but is it a just form?
Is it a fair comparison? Does the British Constitu-
tion restrain the parliamentary discretion to one
year? Does the American impose on the Congress
appropriations for two years? On the contrary, it
cannot be unknown to the authors of the fallacy
themselves, that the British Constitution fixes no
limit whatever to the discretion of the legislature,
and that the American ties down the legislature to
two years, as the longest admissible term.

Had the argument from the British example been
truly stated, it would have stood thus : The term for
which supplies may be appropriated to the army
establishment, though unlimited by the British Con-
stitution, has nevertheless, in practice, been limited
by parliamentary discretion to a single year. Now,
if in Great Britain, where the House of Commons is
elected for seven years ; where so great a proportion
of the members are elected by so small a proportion
of the people; where the electors are so corrupted
by the representatives, and the representatives so
corrupted by the Crown, the representative body
can possess a power to make appropriations to the
army for an indefinite term, without desiring, or
without daring, to extend the term beyond a single
year, ought not suspicion herself to blush, in pre-

The Federalist 337

tending that the representatives of the United States,
elected freely by the whole body of the people,
every second year, cannot be safely intrusted with
the discretion over such appropriations, expressly
limited to the short period of two years?

A bad cause seldom fails to betray itself. Of this
truth, the management of the opposition to the
federal government is an unvaried exemplification.
But among all the blunders which have been com-
mitted, none is more striking than the attempt to
enlist on that side the prudent jealousy entertained
by the people, of standing armies. The attempt has
awakened fully the public attention to that import-
ant subject; and has led to investigations which
must terminate in a thorough and universal convic-
tion, not only that the Constitution has provided
the most effectual guards against danger from that
quarter, but that nothing short of a Constitution
fully adequate to the national defence and the pre-
servation of the Union, can save America from as
many standing armies as it may be split into States
or Confederacies, and from such a progressive aug-
mentation of these establishments in each, as will
render them as burdensome to the properties and
ominous to the liberties of the people, as any estab-
lishment that can become necessary, under a united
and efficient government, must be tolerable to the
former and safe to the latter.

The palpable necessity of the power to provide and
maintain a navy has protected that part of the Con-
stitution against a spirit of censure, which has spared
few other parts. It must, indeed, be numbered

VOL. XI.— 22.

338 Alexander Hamilton

among the greatest blessings of America, that as her
Union will be the only source of her maritime strength,
so this will be a principal source of her security
against danger from abroad. In this respect our
situation bears another likeness to the insular advan-
tage of Great Britain. The batteries most capable
of repelling foreign enterprises on our safety, are
happily such as can never be turned by a perfidious
government against our liberties.

The inhabitants of the Atlantic frontier are all of
them deeply interested in this provision for naval
protection, and if they have hitherto been suffered
to sleep quietly in their beds; if their property has
remained safe against the predatory spirit of licen-
tious adventurers ; if their maritime towns have not
yet been compelled to ransom themselves from the
terrors of a conflagration, by yielding to the exactions
of daring and sudden invaders, these instances of
good fortune are not to be ascribed to the capacity
of the existing government for the protection of
those from whom it claims allegiance, but to causes
that are fugitive and fallacious. If we except per-
haps Virginia and Maryland, which are peculiarly
vulnerable on their eastern frontiers, no part of
the Union ought to feel more anxiety on this subject
than New York. Her sea-coast is extensive. A very
important district of the State is an island. The
State itself is penetrated by a large navigable river
for more than fifty leagues. The great emporium
of its commerce, the great reservoir of its wealth, lies
every moment at the mercy of events, and may
almost be regarded as a hostage for ignominious

The Federalist 339

compliances with the dictates of a foreign enemy,
or even with the rapacious demands of pirates and
barbarians. Should a war be the result of the pre-
carious situation of European affairs, and all the un-
ruly passions attending it be let loose on the ocean,
our escape from insults and depredations, not only
on that element, but every part of the other border-
ing on it, will be truly miraculous. In the present
condition of America, the States more immediately
exposed to these calamities have nothing to hope
from the phantom of a general government which
now exists; and if their single resources were equal
to the task of fortifying themselves against the
danger, the object to be protected would be almost
consumed by the means of protecting them.

The power of regulating and calling forth the
militia has been already sufficiently vindicated and
explained.

The power of levying and borrowing money, being
the sinew of that which is to be exerted in the na-
tional defence, is properly thrown into the same
class with it. This power, also, has been examined
already with much attention, and has, I trust, been
clearly shown to be necessary, both in the extent and
form given to it by the Constitution. I will address
one additional reflection only to those who contend
that the power ought to have been restrained to ex-
ternal taxation — by which they mean, taxes on
articles imported from other countries. It cannot
be doubted that this will always be a valuable source
of revenue; that for a considerable time it must be
a principal source; that at this moment it is an

34° Alexander Hamilton

essential one. But we may form very mistaken
ideas on this subject, if we do not call to mind in
our calculations, that the extent of revenue drawn
from foreign commerce must vary with the varia-
tions, both in the extent and the kind of imports;
and that these variations do not correspond with the
progress of population, which must be the general
measure of the public wants. As long as agriculture
continues the sole field of labor, the importation of
manufactures must increase as the consumers mul-
tiply. As soon as domestic manufactures are begun
by the hands not called for by agriculture, the im-
ported manufactures will decrease as the numbers
of people increase. In a more remote stage, the
imports may consist in a considerable part of raw
materials, which will be wrought into articles for
exportation, and will, therefore, require rather the
encouragement of bounties, than to be loaded with
discouraging duties. A system of government,
meant for duration, ought to contemplate these
revolutions, and be able to accommodate itself to
them.

Some, who have not denied the necessity of the
power of taxation, have grounded a very fierce at-
tack against the Constitution, on the language in
which it is defined. It has been urged and echoed,
that the power " to lay and collect taxes, duties, im-
posts, and excises, to pay the debts, and provide for
the common defence and general welfare of the
United States," amounts to an unlimited commis-
sion to exercise every power which may be alleged
to be necessary for the common defence or general

The Federalist 341

welfare. No stronger proof could be given of the
distress under which these writers labor for objec-
tions, than their stooping to such a misconstruction.

Had no other enumeration or definition of the
powers of the Congress been found in the Constitu-
tion, than the general expressions just cited, the au-
thors of the objection might have had some color for
it; though it would have been difficult to find a
reason for so awkward a form of describing an au-
thority to legislate in all possible cases. A power to
destroy the freedom of the press, the trial by jury,
or even to regulate the course of descents, or the
forms of conveyances, must be very singularly ex-
pressed by the terms " to raise money for the general
welfare."

But what color can the objection have, when a
specification of the objects alluded to by these
general terms immediately follows, and is not even
separated by a longer pause than a semicolon? If
the different parts of the same instrument ought to
be so expounded, as to give meaning to every part
which will bear it, shall one part of the same sen-
tence be excluded altogether from a share in the
meaning ; and shall the more doubtful and indefinite
terms be retained in their full extent, and the clear
and precise expressions be denied any signification
whatsoever ? For what purpose could the enumera-
tion of particular powers be inserted, if these and all
others were meant to be included in the preceding
general power? Nothing is more natural nor com-
mon than first to use a general phrase, and then to
explain and qualify it by a recital of particulars.

342 Alexander Hamilton

But the idea of an enumeration of particulars which
neither explain nor qualify the general meaning, and
can have no other effect than to confound and mis-
lead, is an absurdity, which, as we are reduced to
the dilemma of charging either on the authors of the
objection or on the authors of the Constitution, we
must take the liberty of supposing, had not its origin
with the latter.

The objection here is the more extraordinary, as
it appears that the language used by the convention
is a copy from the articles of Confederation. The
objects of the Union among the States, as described
in article third, are, " their common defence, security
of their liberties, and mutual and general welfare."
The terms of article eighth are still more identical:
" All charges of war and all other expenses that shall
be incurred for the common defence or general wel-
fare, and allowed by the United States in Congress,
shall be defrayed out of a common treasury, " etc. A
similar language again occurs in article ninth. Con-
strue either of these articles by the rules which would
justify the construction put on the new Constitution,
and they vest in the existing Congress a power to
legislate in all cases whatsoever. But what would
have been thought of that assembly, if, attaching
themselves to these general expressions, and dis-
regarding the specifications which ascertain and
limit their import, they had exercised an unlimi-
ted power of providing for the common defence
and general welfare? I appeal to the objectors
themselves, whether they would in that case have
employed the same reasoning in justification of Con-

The Federalist 343

gress as they now make use of against the conven-
tion. How difficult it is for error to escape its own
condemnation !

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, January 22, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XLII

(madison)

To the People of the State of New York:

The second class of powers, lodged in the general
government, consist of those which regulate the
intercourse with foreign nations, to wit: to make
treaties; to send and receive ambassadors, other
public ministers, and consuls; to define and punish
piracies and felonies committed on the high seas, and
offences against the law of nations; to regulate
foreign commerce, including a power to prohibit,
after the year 1808, the importation of slaves, and
to lay an intermediate duty of ten dollars per head,
as a discouragement to such importations.

This class of powers forms an obvious and essen-
tial branch of the federal administration. If we are
to be one nation in any respect, it clearly ought to
be in respect to other nations.

The powers to make treaties and to send and re-
ceive ambassadors, speak their own propriety. Both
of them are comprised in the articles of Confedera-
tion, with this difference only, that the former is
disembarrassed, by the plan of the convention, of
an exception, under which treaties might be sub-
stantially frustrated by regulations of the States;

344 Alexander Hamilton

and that a power of appointing and receiving " other
public ministers and consuls," is expressly and very
properly added to the former provision concern-
ing ambassadors. The term ambassador, if taken
strictly, as seems to be required by the second of the
articles of Confederation, comprehends the highest
grade only of public ministers, and excludes the
grades which the United States will be most likely
to prefer, where foreign embassies may be necessary.
And under no latitude of construction will the term
comprehend consuls. Yet it has been found ex-
pedient, and has been the practice of Congress, to
employ the inferior grades of public ministers, and
to send and receive consuls.

It is true, that where treaties of commerce stipu-
late for the mutual appointment of consuls, whose
functions are connected with commerce, the admis-
sion of foreign consuls may fall within the power
of making commercial treaties; and that where no
such treaties exist, the mission of American consuls
into foreign countries may perhaps be covered under
the authority, given by the ninth article of the Con-
federation, to appoint all such civil officers as may
be necessary for managing the general affairs of the
United States. But the admission of consuls into the
United States, where no previous treaty has stipu-
lated it, seems to have been nowhere provided for.
A supply of the omission is one of the lesser instances
in which the convention have improved on the model
before them. But the most minute provisions be-
come important when they tend to obviate the ne-
cessity or the pretext for gradual and unobserved

The Federalist 345

usurpations of power. A list of the cases in which
Congress have been betrayed, or forced by the de-
fects of the Confederation, into violations of their
chartered authorities, would not a little surprise
those who have paid no attention to the subject;
and would be no inconsiderable argument in favor
of the new Constitution, which seems to have pro-
vided no less studiously for the lesser, than the more
obvious and striking defects of the old.

The power to define and punish piracies and
felonies committed on the high seas, and offences
against the law of nations, belongs with equal pro-
priety to the general government, and is a still
greater improvement on the articles of Confedera-
tion. These articles contain no provision for the
case of offences against the law of nations ; and con-
sequently leave it in the power of any indiscreet
member to embroil the Confederacy with foreign
nations. The provision of the federal articles on the
subject of piracies and felonies extends no further
than to the establishment of courts for the trial
of these offences. The definition of piracies might,
perhaps, without inconveniency, be left to the
law of nations; though a legislative definition of
them is found in most municipal codes. A defini-
tion of felonies on the high seas is evidently requisite.
Felony is a term of loose signification, even in the
common law of England; and of various import in
the statute law of that kingdom. But neither the
common nor the statute law of that, or of any other
nation, ought to be a standard for the proceedings
of this, unless previously made its own by legislative

346 Alexander Hamilton

adoption. The meaning of the term, as defined in
the codes of the several States, would be as imprac-
ticable as the former would be a dishonorable and
illegitimate guide. It is not precisely the same in
any two of the States; and varies in each with
every revision of its criminal laws. For the sake
of certainty and uniformity, therefore, the power of
defining felonies in this case was in every respect
necessary and proper.

The regulation of foreign commerce, having fallen
within several views which have been taken of this
subject, has been too fully discussed to need addi-
tional proofs here of its being properly submitted to
the federal administration.

It were doubtless to be wished, that the power of
prohibiting the importation of slaves had not been
postponed until the year 1808, or rather that it had
been suffered to have immediate operation. But it
is not difficult to account, either for this restriction
on the general government, or for the manner in
which the whole clause is expressed. It ought to be
considered as a great point gained in favor of hu-
manity, that a period of twenty years may terminate
forever, within these States, a traffic which has so
long and so loudly upbraided the barbarism of
modern policy; that within that period, it will re-
ceive a considerable discouragement from the federal
government, and may be totally abolished, by a
concurrence of the few States which continue the
unnatural traffic, in the prohibitory example which
has been given by so great a majority of the Union.
Happy would it be for the unfortunate Africans, if

The Federalist 347

an equal prospect lay before them of being redeemed
from the oppressions of their European brethren!

Attempts have been made to pervert this clause
into an objection against the Constitution, by re-
presenting it on one side as a criminal toleration of
an illicit practice, and on another as calculated to
prevent voluntary and beneficial emigrations from
Europe to America. I mention these misconstruc-
tions, not with a view to give them an answer, for
they deserve none, but as specimens of the manner
and spirit in which some have thought fit to conduct
their opposition to the proposed government.

The powers included in the third class are those
which provide for the harmony and proper inter-
course among the States.

Under this head might be included the particular
restraints imposed on the authority of the States,
and certain powers of the judicial department; but
the former are reserved for a distinct class, and the
latter will be particularly examined when we arrive
at the structure and organization of the government.
I shall confine myself to a cursory review of the
remaining powers comprehended under this third
description, to wit: to regulate commerce among
the several States and the Indian tribes; to coin
money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign
coin; to provide for the punishment of counterfeit-
ing the current coin and securities of the United
States ; to fix the standard of weights and measures ;
to establish a uniform rule of naturalization, and
uniform laws of bankruptcy; to prescribe the man-
ner in which the public acts, records, and judicial

34$ Alexander Hamilton

proceedings of each State shall be proved, and the
effect they shall have in other States; and to es-
tablish post-offices and post-roads.

The defect of power in the existing Confederacy
to regulate the commerce between its several mem-
bers, is in the number of those which have been
clearly pointed out by experience. To the proofs
and remarks which former papers have brought into
view on this subject, it may be added that without
this supplemental provision, the great and essential
power of regulating foreign commerce would have
been incomplete and ineffectual. A very material
object of this power was the relief of the States
which import and export through other States, from
the improper contributions levied on them by the
latter. Were these at liberty to regulate the trade
between State and State, it must be foreseen that
ways would be found out to load the articles of im-
port and export, during the passage through their
jurisdiction, with duties which would fall on the
makers of the latter and the consumers of the
former. We may be assured by past experience,
that such a practice would be introduced by future
contrivances; and both by that and a common
knowledge of human affairs, that it would nourish
unceasing animosities, and not improbably termi-
nate in serious interruptions of the public tranquil-
lity. To those who do not view the question through
the medium of passion or of interest, the desire of
the commercial States to collect, in any form, an
indirect revenue from their uncommercial neighbors,
must appear not less impolitic than it is unfair;

The Federalist 349

since it would stimulate the injured party, by re-
sentment as well as interest, to resort to less con-
venient channels for their foreign trade. But the
mild voice of reason, pleading the cause of an en-
larged and permanent interest, is but too often
drowned, before public bodies as well as individuals,
by the clamors of an impatient avidity for imme-
diate and immoderate gain.

The necessity of a superintending authority over
the reciprocal trade of confederated States, has been
illustrated by other examples as well as our own. In
Switzerland, where the Union is so very slight, each
canton is obliged to allow to merchandises a passage
through its jurisdiction into other cantons, without
an augmentation of the tolls. In Germany it is a
law of the empire, that the princes and states shall
not lay tolls or customs on bridges, rivers, or pas-
sages, without the consent of the emperor and the
diet ; though it appears from a quotation in an ante-
cedent paper, that the practice in this, as in many
other instances in that confederacy, has not followed
the law, and has produced there the mischiefs which
have been foreseen here. Among the restraints im-
posed by the Union of the Netherlands on its mem-
bers, one is, that they shall not establish imposts
disadvantageous to their neighbors, without the
general permission.

The regulation of commerce with the Indian tribes
is very properly unfettered from two limitations in
the articles of Confederation, which render the pro-
vision obscure and contradictory. The power is
there restrained to Indians, not members of any of

35° Alexander Hamilton

the States, and is not to violate or infringe the legis-
lative right of any State within its own limits. What
description of Indians are to be deemed members of
a State, is not yet settled, and has been a question
of frequent perplexity and contention in the federal
councils. And how the trade with Indians, though
not members of a State, yet residing within its
legislative jurisdiction, can be regulated by an ex-
ternal authority, without so far intruding on the
internal rights of legislation, is absolutely incom-
prehensible. This is not the only case in which the
articles of Confederation have inconsiderately en-
deavored to accomplish impossibilities; to reconcile
a partial sovereignty in the Union, with complete
sovereignty in the States ; to subvert a mathematical
axiom, by taking away a part, and letting the whole
remain.

All that need be remarked on the power to coin
money, regulate the value thereof, and of foreign
coin, is, that by providing for this last case, the Con-
stitution has supplied a material omission in the
articles of Confederation. The authority of the
existing Congress is restrained to the regulation of
coin struck by their own authority, or that of the
respective States. It must be seen at once that the
proposed uniformity in the value of the current coin
might be destroyed by subjecting that of foreign coin
to the different regulations of the different States.

The punishment of counterfeiting the public se-
curities, as well as the current coin, is submitted of
course to that authority which is to secure the value
of both.

The Federalist 35 1

The regulation of weights and measures is trans-
ferred from the articles of Confederation, and is
founded on like considerations with the preceding
power of regulating coin.

The dissimilarity in the rules of naturalization has
long been remarked as a fault in our system, and as
laying a foundation for intricate and delicate ques-
tions. In the fourth article of the Confederation, it
is declared " that the free inhabitants of each of these
States, paupers, vagabonds, and fugitives from jus-
tice excepted, shall be entitled to all privileges and
immunities of free citizens in the several States ; and
the people of each State shall, in every other, enjoy
all the privileges of trade and commerce, " etc. There
is a confusion of language here, which is remarkable.
Why the terms free inhabitants are used in one part
of the article, free citizens in another, and people in
another; or what was meant by superadding to " all
privileges and immunities of free citizens," "all the
privileges of trade and commerce,,, cannot easily be
determined. It seems to be a construction scarcely
avoidable, however, that those who come under the
denomination of free inhabitants of a State, although
not citizens of such State, are entitled, in every other
State, to all the privileges of free citizens of the
latter; that is, to greater privileges than they may
be entitled to in their own State: so that it may be
in the power of a particular State, or rather every
State is laid under a necessity, not only to confer the
rights of citizenship in other States upon any whom
it may admit to such rights within itself, but upon
any whom it may allow to become inhabitants within

35 2 Alexander Hamilton

its jurisdiction. But were an exposition of the term
" inhabitants' ' to be admitted which would confine
the stipulated privileges to citizens alone, the diffi-
culty is diminished only, not removed. The very
improper power would still be retained by each State,
of naturalizing aliens in every other State. In one
State, residence for a short term confirms all the
rights of citizenship: in another, qualifications of
greater importance are required. An alien, therefore,
legally incapacitated for certain rights in the latter,
may, by previous residence only in the former, elude
his incapacity; and thus the law of one State be
preposterously rendered paramount to the law of
another, within the jurisdiction of the other. We
owe it to mere casualty, that very serious embarrass-
ments on this subject have been hitherto escaped.
By the laws of several States, certain descriptions
of aliens, who had rendered themselves obnoxious,
were laid under interdicts inconsistent not only with
the rights of citizenship but with the privilege of
residence. What would have been the consequence,
if such persons, by residence or otherwise, had ac-
quired the character of citizens under the laws of
another State, and then asserted their rights as such,
both to residence and citizenship, within the State
proscribing them ? Whatever the legal consequences
might have been, other consequences would prob-
ably have resulted, of too serious a nature not to
be provided against. The new Constitution has
accordingly, with great propriety, made provision
against them, and all others proceeding from the
defect of the Confederation on this head, by author-

The Federalist 353

izing the general government to establish a uniform
rule of naturalization throughout the United States.

The power of establishing uniform laws of bank-
ruptcy is so intimately connected with the regula-
tion of commerce, and will prevent so many frauds
where the parties or their property may lie or be re-
moved into different States, that the expediency of
it seems not likely to be drawn into question.

The power of prescribing by general laws, the man-
ner in which the public acts, records, and judicial
proceedings of each State shall be proved, and the
effect they shall have in other States, is an evident
and valuable improvement on the clause relating to
this subject in the articles of Confederation. The
meaning of the latter is extremely indeterminate,
and can be of little importance under any inter-
pretation which it will bear. The power here es-
tablished may be rendered a very convenient
instrument of justice, and be particularly beneficial
on the borders of contiguous States, where the effects
liable to justice may be suddenly and secretly trans-
lated, in any stage of the process, within a foreign
jurisdiction.

The power of establishing post-roads must, in
every view, be a harmless power, and may, perhaps,
by judicious management, become productive of
great public conveniency. Nothing which tends to
facilitate the intercourse between the States can be
deemed unworthy of the public care.

PUBLIUS.

VOL. «.— S3.

354 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. XLIII

(MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The fourth class comprises the following miscel-
laneous powers:

i. A power "to promote the progress of science
and useful arts, by securing, for a limited time, to
authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their
respective writings and disco veries.,,

The utility of this power will scarcely be ques-
tioned. The copyright of authors has been solemnly
adjudged, in Great Britain, to be a right of common
law. The right to useful inventions seems with
equal reason to belong to the inventors. The public
good fully coincides in both- cases with the claims of
individuals. The States cannot separately make
effectual provision for either of the cases, and most
of them have anticipated the decision of this point,
by laws passed at the instance of Congress.

2. "To exercise exclusive legislation, in all cases
whatsoever, over such district (not exceeding ten
miles square) as may, by cession of particular States
and the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of
the government of the United States; and to exer-
cise like authority over all places purchased by the
consent of the legislatures of the States in which the
same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines,
arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings."

The indispensable necessity of complete authority
at the seat of government, carries its own evidence

The Federalist 355

with it. It is a power exercised by every legislature
of the Union, I might say of the world, by virtue of
its general supremacy. Without it, not only the
public authority might be insulted and its proceed-
ings interrupted with impunity; but a dependence
of the members of the general government on the
State comprehending the seat of the government,
for protection in the exercise of their duty, might
bring on the national councils an imputation of awe
or influence, equally dishonorable to the government
and dissatisfactory to the other members of the Con-
federacy. This consideration has the more weight,
as the gradual accumulation of public improvements
at the stationary residence of the government would
be both too great a public pledge to be left in the
hands of a single State, and would create so many
obstacles to a removal of the government, as still
further to abridge its necessary independence. The
extent of this federal district is sufficiently circum-
scribed to satisfy every jealousy of an opposite na-
ture. And as it is to be appropriated to this use
with the consent of the State ceding it ; as the State
will no doubt provide in the compact for the rights
and the consent of the citizens inhabiting it; as the
inhabitants will find sufficient inducements of in-
terest to become willing parties to the cession; as
they will have had their voice in the election of the
government which is to exercise authority over them;
as a municipal legislature for local purposes, derived
from their own suffrages, will of course be allowed
them; and as the authority of the legislature of the
State, and of the inhabitants of the ceded part of it,

356 Alexander Hamilton

to concur in the cession, will be derived from the whole
people of the State, in their adoption of the Constitu-
tion, every imaginable objection seems to be obviated.

The necessity of a like authority over forts, maga-
zines, etc., established by the general government, is
not less evident. The public money expended on
such places, and the public property deposited in
them, require that they should be exempt from the
authority of the particular State. Nor would it be
proper for the places on which the security of the
entire Union may depend, to be in any degree
dependent on a particular member of it. All ob-
jections and scruples are here also obviated, by re-
quiring the concurrence of the States concerned, in
every such establishment.

3. "To declare the punishment of treason, but no
attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood,
or forfeiture, except during the life of the person
attainted."

As treason may be committed against the United
States, the authority of the United States ought to
be enabled to punish it. But as new-fangled and
artificial treasons have been the great engines by
which violent factions, the natural offspring of free
government, have usually wreaked their alternate
malignity on each other, the convention have, with
great judgment, opposed a barrier to this peculiar
danger, by inserting a constitutional definition of the
crime, fixing the proof necessary for conviction of it,
and restraining the Congress, even in punishing it,
from extending the consequences of guilt beyond the
person of its author.

The Federalist 357

4. "To admit new States into the Union; but no
new State shall be formed or erected within the
jurisdiction of any other State; nor any State be
formed by the junction of two or more States, or
parts of States, without the consent of the legis-
latures of the States concerned, as well as of the
Congress."

In the articles of Confederation, no provision is
found on this important subject. Canada was to be
admitted of right, on her joining in the measures of
the United States; and the other colonies, by which
were evidently meant the other British colonies, at
the discretion of nine States. The eventual estab-
lishment of new States seems to have been over-
looked by the compilers of that instrument. We
have seen the inconvenience of this omission, and
the assumption of power into which Congress have
been led by it. With great propriety, therefore, has
the new system supplied the defect. The general
precaution, that no new States shall be formed,
without the concurrence of the federal authority,
and that of the States concerned, is consonant to
the principles which ought to govern such transac-
tions. The particular precaution against the erec-
tion of new States, by the partition of a State
without its consent, quiets the jealousy of the
larger States; as that of the smaller is quieted by
a like precaution, against a junction of States with-
out their consent.

5. "To dispose of and make all needful rules and
regulations respecting the territory or other pro-
perty belonging to the United States, with a proviso,

35$ Alexander Hamilton

that nothing in the Constitution shall be so con-
strued as to prejudice any claims of the United
States, or of any particular State.' '

This is a power of very great importance, and re-
quired by considerations similar to those which show
the propriety of the former. The proviso annexed
is proper in itself, and was probably rendered abso-
lutely necessary by jealousies and questions con-
cerning the Western territory sufficiently known to
the public.

6. "To guarantee to every State in the Union a
republican form of government; to protect each of
them against invasion; and on application of the
legislature, or of the executive (when the legislature
cannot be convened), against domestic violence."

In a confederacy founded on republican principles,
and composed of republican members, the superin-
tending government ought clearly to possess au-
thority to defend the system against aristocratic or
monarchical innovations. The more intimate the
nature of such a union may be, the greater interest
have the members in the political institutions of
each other; and the greater right to insist that the
forms of government under which the compact was
entered into should be substantially maintained.
But a right implies a remedy; and where else could
the remedy be deposited, than where it is deposited
by the Constitution? Governments of dissimilar
principles and forms have been found less adapted
to a federal coalition of any sort, than those of a kin-
dred nature. " As the confederate republic of Ger-
many," says Montesquieu, " consists of free cities and

The Federalist 359

petty states, subject to different princes, experience
shows us that it is more imperfect than that of Hol-
land and Switzerland." "Greece was undone," he
adds, "as soon as the king of Macedon obtained a
seat among the Amphictyons. " In the latter case,
no doubt, the disproportionate force, as well as the
monarchical form, of the new confederate, had its
share of influence on the events. It may possibly
be asked, what need there could be of such a precau-
tion, and whether it may not become a pretext for
alterations in the State governments, without the
concurrence of the States themselves. These ques-
tions admit of ready answers. If the interposition
of the general government should not be needed, the
provision for such an event will be a harmless super-
fluity only in the Constitution. But who can say
what experiments may be produced by the caprice
of particular States, by the ambition of enterprising
leaders, or by the intrigues and influence of foreign
powers ? To the second question it may be answered,
that if the general government should interpose by
virtue of this constitutional authority, it will be, of
course, bound to pursue the authority. But the
authority extends no further than to a guaranty of a
republican form of government, which supposes a
preexisting government of the form which is to be
guaranteed. As long, therefore, as the existing re-
publican forms are continued by the States, they are
guaranteed by the federal Constitution. Whenever
the States may choose to substitute other republican
forms, they have a right to do so, and to claim the
federal guaranty for the latter. The only restriction

360 Alexander Hamilton

imposed on them is, that they shall not exchange
republican for anti-republican Constitutions; a re-
striction which, it is presumed, will hardly be con-
sidered as a grievance.

A protection against invasion is due from every
society to the parts composing it. The latitude of
the expression here used seems to secure each State,
not only against foreign hostility, but against ambi-
tious or vindictive enterprises of its more powerful
neighbors. The history, both of ancient and modern
confederacies, proves that the weaker members of
the union ought not to be insensible to the policy of
this article.

Protection against domestic violence is added with
equal propriety. It has been remarked, that even
among the Swiss cantons, which, properly speaking,
are not under one government, provision is made for
this object; and the history of that league informs
us that mutual aid is frequently claimed and afforded ;
and as well by the most democratic, as the other
cantons. A recent and well-known event among
ourselves has warned us to be prepared for emergen-
cies of a like nature.

At first view, it might seem not to square with the
republican theory, to suppose, either that a ma-
jority have not the right, or that a minority will have
the force, to subvert a government; and conse-
quently, that the federal interposition can never be
required, but when it would be improper. But
theoretic reasoning, in this as in most other cases,
must be qualified by the lessons of practice. Why
may not illicit combinations, for purposes of vio-

The Federalist 361

lence, be formed as well by a majority of a State, es-
pecially a small State, as by a majority of a county,
or a district of the same State ; and if the authority
of the State ought, in the latter case, to protect
the local magistracy, ought not the federal author-
ity, in the former, to support the State authority?
Besides, there are certain parts of the State constitu-
tions which are so interwoven with the federal Con-
stitution, that a violent blow cannot be given to the
one without communicating the wound to the other.
Insurrections in a State will rarely induce a federal
interposition, unless the number concerned in them
bear some proportion to the friends of government.
It will be much better that the violence in such cases
should be repressed by the superintending power,
than that the majority should be left to maintain
their cause by a bloody and obstinate contest. The
existence of a right to interpose, will generally pre-
vent the necessity of exerting it.

Is it true that force and right are necessarily on
the same side in republican governments? May not
the minor party possess such a superiority of pecu-
niary resources, of military talents and experience,
or of secret succors from foreign powers, as will
render it superior also in an appeal to the sword?
May not a more compact and advantageous position
turn the scale on the same side, against a superior
number so situated as to be less capable of a prompt
and collected exertion of its strength? Nothing can
be more chimerical than to imagine that in a trial of
actual force, victory may be calculated by the rules
which prevail in a census of the inhabitants, or which

362 Alexander Hamilton

determine the event of an election! May it not
happen, in fine, that the minority of citizens may
become a majority of persons, by the accession of
alien residents, of a casual concourse of adventurers,
or of those whom the constitution of the State has
not admitted to the rights of suffrage? I take no
notice of an unhappy species of population abound-
ing in some of the States, who, during the calm of
regular government, are sunk below the level of men ;
but who, in the tempestuous scenes of civil violence,
may emerge into the human character, and give a
superiority of strength to any party with which they
may associate themselves.

In cases where it may be doubtful on which side
justice lies, what better umpires could be desired
by two violent factions, flying to arms and tearing
a State to pieces, than the representatives of con-
federate States, not heated by the local flame? To
the impartiality of judges, they would unite the
affection of friends. Happy would it be if such a
remedy for its infirmities could be enjoyed by all
free governments; if a project equally effectual
could be established for the universal peace of
mankind!

Should it be asked, what is to be the redress for an
insurrection pervading all the States, and comprising
a superiority of the entire force, though not a consti-
tutional right? the answer must be, that such a case,
as it would be without the compass of human reme-
dies, so it is fortunately not within the compass of
human probability ; and that it is a sufficient recom-
mendation of the federal Constitution, that it di-

The Federalist 363

minishes the risk of a calamity for which no possible
constitution can provide a cure.

Among the advantages of a confederate republic
enumerated by Montesquieu, an important one is,
"that should a popular insurrection happen in one
of the States, the others are able to quell it. Should
abuses creep into one part, they are reformed by
those that remain sound/'

7. "To consider all debts contracted, and engage-
ments entered into, before the adoption of this Con-
stitution, as being no less valid against the United
States, under this Constitution, than under the
Confederation."

This can only be considered as a declaratory pro-
position ; and may have been inserted, among other
reasons, for the satisfaction of the foreign creditors
of the United States, who cannot be strangers to the
pretended doctrine, that a change in the political
form of civil society has the magical effect of dissolv-
ing its moral obligations.

Among the lesser criticisms which have been exer-
cised on the Constitution, it has been remarked that
the validity of engagements ought to have been as-
serted in favor of the United States, as well as
against them; and in the spirit which usually
characterizes little critics, the omission has been
transformed and magnified into a plot against the
national rights. The authors of this discovery may
be told, what few others need to be informed of, that
as engagements are in their nature reciprocal, an
assertion of their validity on one side, necessarily
involves a validity on the other side ; and that as the

364 Alexander Hamilton

article is merely declaratory, the establishment of
the principle in one case is sufficient for every case.
They may be further told, that every constitution
must limit its precautions to dangers that are not
altogether imaginary; and that no real danger can
exist that the government would dare, with, or even
without, this constitutional declaration before it, to
remit the debts justly due to the public, on the pre-
text here condemned.

8. "To provide for amendments to be ratified by
three fourths of the States, under two exceptions
only."

That useful alterations will be suggested by ex-
perience, could not but be foreseen. It was requi-
site, therefore, that a mode for introducing them
should be provided. The mode preferred by the
convention seems to be stamped with every mark
of propriety. It guards equally against that ex-
treme facility, which would render the Constitution
too mutable; and that extreme difficulty, which
might perpetuate its discovered faults. It, more-
over, equally enables the general and the State gov-
ernments to originate the amendment of errors, as
they may be pointed out by the experience on one
side, or on the other. The exception in favor of the
equality of suffrage in the Senate, was probably
meant as a palladium to the residuary sovereignty
of the States, implied and secured by that principle
of representation in one branch of the legislature;
and was probably insisted on by the States par-
ticularly attached to that equality. The other
exception must have been admitted on the same

The Federalist 365

considerations which produced the privilege defended
by it.

9. "The ratification of the conventions of nine
States shall be sufficient for the establishment of
this Constitution between the States, ratifying the
same."

This article speaks for itself. The express au-
thority of the people alone could give due validity
to the Constitution. To have required the unani-
mous ratification of the thirteen States, would have
subjected the essential interests of the whole to the
caprice or corruption of a single member. It would
have marked a want of foresight in the convention,
which our own experience would have rendered
inexcusable.

Two questions of a very delicate nature present
themselves on this occasion: 1. On what principle
the Confederation, which stands in the solemn form
of a compact among the States, can be superseded
without the unanimous consent of the parties to it?
2. What relation is to subsist between the nine or
more States ratifying the Constitution, and the re-
maining few who do not become parties to it?

The first question is answered at once by recurring
to the absolute necessity of the case; to the great
principle of self-preservation; to the transcendent
law of nature and of nature's God, which declares
that the safety and happiness of society are the
objects at which all political institutions aim, and
to which all such institutions must be sacrificed.
Perhaps, also, an answer may be found without
searching beyond the principles of the compact itself.

366 Alexander Hamilton

It has been heretofore noted among the defects of
the Confederation, that in many of the States it had
received no higher sanction than a mere legislative
ratification. The principle of reciprocality seems to
require that its obligation on the other States should
be reduced to the same standard. A compact be-
tween independent sovereigns, founded on ordinary
acts of legislative authority, can pretend to no higher
validity than a league or treaty between the parties.
It is an established doctrine on the subject of treaties,
that all the articles are mutually conditions of each
other ; that a breach of any one article is a breach of
the whole treaty; and that a breach, committed by
either of the parties, absolves the others, and author-
izes them, if they please, to pronounce the compact
violated and void. Should it unhappily be necessary
to appeal to these delicate truths for a justification
for dispensing with the consent of particular States
to a dissolution of the federal pact, will not the com-
plaining parties find it a difficult task to answer the
multiplied and important infractions with which
they may be confronted? The time has been when
it was incumbent on us all to veil the ideas which
this paragraph exhibits. The scene is now changed,
and with it the part which the same motives dictate.
The second question is not less delicate; and the
flattering prospect of its being merely hypothetical
forbids an over-curious discussion of it. It is one
of those cases which must be left to provide for itself.
In general, it may be observed, that although no
political relation can subsist between the assenting
and dissenting States, yet the moral relations will

The Federalist 367

remain uncancelled. The claims of justice, both
on one side and on the other, will be in force, and
must be fulfilled; the rights of humanity must in all
cases be duly and mutually respected; whilst con-
siderations of a common interest, and, above all, the
remembrance of the endearing scenes which are past,
and the anticipation of a speedy triumph over the
obstacles to reunion, will, it is hoped, not urge in
vain moderation on one side, and prudence on

the other.

Publius.

From the New York Packet, Friday, January 25, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. XLIV

(madison)

To the People of the State of New York:

A fifth class of provisions in favor of the federal
authority consists of the following restrictions on the
authority of the several States.

1. " No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance,
or confederation; grant letters of marque and re-
prisal; coin money; emit bills of credit; make any
thing but gold and silver a legal tender in payment
of debts; pass any bill of attainder, ex-post-facto
law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts ; or
grant any title of nobility."

The prohibition against treaties, alliances, and
confederations makes a part of the existing articles
of Union ; and for reasons which need no explanation,
is copied into the new Constitution. The prohibition
of letters of marque is another part of the old system,

368 Alexander Hamilton

but is somewhat extended in the new. According
to the former, letters of marque could be granted by
the States after a declaration of war; according to
the latter, these licenses must be obtained, as well
during war as previous to its declaration, from the
government of the United States. This alteration is
fully justified by the advantage of uniformity in all
points which relate to foreign powers; and of im-
mediate responsibility to the nation in all those for
whose conduct the nation itself is to be responsible.

The right of coining money, which is here taken
from the States, was left in their hands by the Con-
federation, as a concurrent right with that of Con-
gress, under an exception in favor of the exclusive
right of Congress to regulate the alloy and value.
In this instance, also, the new provision is an im-
provement on the old. Whilst the alloy and value
depended on the general authority, a right of coinage
in the particular States could have no other effect
than to multiply expensive mints and diversify the
forms and weights of the circulating pieces. The
latter inconveniency defeats one purpose for which
the power was originally submitted to the federal
head; and as far as the former might prevent an in-
convenient remittance of gold and silver to the
central mint for recoinage, the end can be as well
attained by local mints established under the general
authority.

The extension of the prohibition to bills of credit
must give pleasure to every citizen, in proportion to
his love of justice and his knowledge of the true
springs of public prosperity. The loss which America

The Federalist 369

has sustained since the peace, from the pestilent
effects of paper money on the necessary confidence
between man and man, on the necessary confidence
in the public councils, on the industry and morals
of the people, and on the character of republican
government, constitutes an enormous debt against
the States chargeable with this unadvised measure,
which must long remain unsatisfied; or rather an
accumulation of guilt, which can be expiated no
otherwise than by a voluntary sacrifice on the altar
of justice, of the power which has been the instru-
ment of it. In addition to these persuasive con-
siderations, it may be observed, that the same reasons
which show the necessity of denying to the States
the power of regulating coin, prove with equal force
that they ought not to be at liberty to substitute a
paper medium in the place of coin. Had every
State a right to regulate the value of its coin, there
might be as many different currencies as States, and
thus the intercourse among them would be impeded ;
retrospective alterations in its value might be made,
and thus the citizens of other States be injured, and
animosities be kindled among the States themselves.
The subjects of foreign powers might suffer from the
same cause, and hence the Union be discredited and
embroiled by the indiscretion of a single member.
No one of these mischiefs is less incident to a power
in the States to emit paper money, than to coin gold
or silver. The power to make any thing but gold
and silver a tender in payment of debts, is withdrawn
from the States, on the same principle with that of
issuing a paper currency.

VOL. XI. — 24.

37° Alexander Hamilton

Bills of attainder, ex-post-facto laws, and laws im-
pairing the obligation of contracts, are contrary to
the first principles of the social compact, and to
every principle of sound legislation. The two former
are expressly prohibited by the declarations pre-
fixed to some of the State constitutions, and all
of them are prohibited by the spirit and scope of
these fundamental charters. Our own experience has
taught us, nevertheless, that additional fences
against these dangers ought not to be omitted.
Very properly, therefore, have the convention added
this constitutional bulwark in favor of personal se-
curity and private rights; and I am much deceived
if they have not, in so doing, as faithfully consulted
the genuine sentiments as the undoubted interests of
their constituents. The sober people of America are
weary of the fluctuating policy which has directed
the public councils. They have seen with regret and
indignation that sudden changes and legislative in-
terferences, in cases affecting personal rights, become
jobs in the hands of enterprising and influential
speculators, and snares to the more-industrious and
less-informed part of the community. They have
seen, too, that one legislative interference is but the
first link of a long chain of repetitions, every subse-
quent interference being naturally produced by the
effects of the preceding. They very rightly infer,
therefore, that some thorough reform is wanting,
which will banish speculations on public measures,
inspire a general prudence and industry, and give a
regular course to the business of society. The pro-
hibition with respect to titles of nobility is copied

The Federalist 371

from the articles of Confederation, and needs no
comment.

2. "No State shall, without the consent of the
Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or
exports, except what may be absolutely neces-
sary for executing its inspection laws, and the
net produce of all duties and imposts laid by any
State on imports or exports, shall be for the use
of the treasury of the United States; and all such
laws shall be subject to the revision and con-
trol of the Congress. No State shall, without the
consent of Congress, lay any duty on tonnage, keep
troops or ships of war in time of peace, enter into
any agreement or compact with another State, or
with a foreign power, or engage in war unless actu-
ally invaded, or in such imminent danger as will
not admit of delay.' '

The restraint on the power of the States over im-
ports and exports is enforced by all the arguments
which prove the necessity of submitting the regula-
tion of trade to the federal councils. It is needless,
therefore, to remark further on this head, than that
the manner in which the restraint is qualified seems
well calculated at once to secure to the States a
reasonable discretion in providing for the conven-
iency of their imports and exports, and to the United
States a reasonable check against the abuse of this
discretion. The remaining particulars of this clause
fall within reasonings which are either so obvious,
or have been so fully developed, that they may be
passed over without remark.

The sixth and last class consists of the several

372 Alexander Hamilton

powers and provisions by which efficacy is given to
all the rest.

i. Of these the first is, the " power to make all
laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into execution the foregoing powers, and all other
powers vested by this Constitution in the govern-
ment of the United States, or in any department or
officer thereof."

Few parts of the Constitution have been assailed
with more intemperance than this; yet on a fair in-
vestigation of it, no part can appear more com-
pletely invulnerable. Without the substance of this
power, the whole Constitution would be a dead letter.
Those who object to the article, therefore, as a part
of the Constitution, can only mean that the form of
the provision is improper. But have they con-
sidered whether a better form could have been
substituted?

There are four other possible methods which the
Constitution might have taken on this subject.
They might have copied the second article of the
existing Confederation, which would have pro-
hibited the exercise of any power not expressly
delegated; they might have attempted a positive
enumeration of the powers comprehended under the
general terms " necessary and proper"; they might
have attempted a negative enumeration of them, by
specifying the powers excepted from the general
definition; they might have been altogether silent
on the subject, leaving these necessary and proper
powers to construction and inference.

Had the convention taken the first method of

The Federalist 373

adopting the second article of Confederation, it is
evident that the new Congress would be continually
exposed, as their predecessors have been, to the
alternative of construing the term "expressly" with
so much rigor, as to disarm the government of all
real authority whatever, or with so much latitude as
to destroy altogether the force of the restriction. It
would be easy to show, if it were necessary, that no
important power, delegated by the articles of Con-
federation, has been or can be executed by Congress,
without recurring more or less to the doctrine of
construction or implication. As the powers delegated
under the new system are more extensive, the govern-
ment which is to administer it would find itself still
more distressed with the alternative of betraying the
public interests by doing nothing, or of violating
the Constitution by exercising powers indispensably
necessary and proper, but, at the same time, not
expressly granted.

Had the convention attempted a positive enum-
eration of the powers necessary and proper for carry-
ing their other powers into effect, the attempt would
have involved a complete digest of laws on every
subject to which the Constitution relates; accom-
modated too, not only to the existing state of things,
but to all the possible changes which futurity may
produce; for in every new application of a general
power, the particular powers, which are the means of
attaining the object of the general power, must always
necessarily vary with that object, and be often
properly varied whilst the object remains the same.

Had they attempted to enumerate the particular

374 Alexander Hamilton

powers or means not necessary or proper for carrying
the general powers into execution, the task would
have been no less chimerical; and would have been
liable to this further objection, that every defect in
the enumeration would have been equivalent to a
positive grant of authority. If, to avoid this conse-
quence, they had attempted a partial enumeration
of the exceptions, and described the residue by the
general terms, not necessary or proper, it must have
happened that the enumeration would comprehend a
few of the excepted powers only; that these would
be such as would be least likely to be assumed or
tolerated, because the enumeration would of course
select such as would be least necessary or proper;
and that the unnecessary and improper powers in-
cluded in the residuum, would be less forcibly
excepted than if no partial enumeration had been
made.

Had the Constitution been silent on this head,
there can be no doubt that all the particular powers
requisite as means of executing the general powers
would have resulted to the government, by unavoid-
able implication. No axiom is more clearly estab-
lished in law, or in reason, than that wherever the
end is required, the means are authorized ; wherever
a general power to do a thing is given, every particu-
lar power necessary for doing it is included. Had
this last method, therefore, been pursued by the
convention, every objection now urged against their
plan would remain in all its plausibility; and the
real inconveniency would be incurred of not removing
a pretext which may be seized on critical occasions

The Federalist 375

for drawing into question the essential powers of the
Union.

If it be asked what is to be the consequence, in
case the Congress shall misconstrue this part of the
Constitution, and exercise powers not warranted by
its true meaning, I answer, the same as if they should
misconstrue or enlarge any other power vested in
them; as if the general power had been reduced to
particulars, and any one of these were to be violated;
the same, in short, as if the State legislatures should
violate their respective constitutional authorities.
In the first instance, the success of the usurpation
will depend on the executive and judiciary depart-
ments, which are to expound and give effect to the
legislative acts ; and in the last resort a remedy must
be obtained from the people, who can, by the elec-
tion of more faithful representatives, annul the acts
of the usurpers. The truth is, that this ultimate
redress may be more confided in against unconsti-
tutional acts of the federal than of the State legis-
latures, for this plain reason, that as every such act
of the former will be an invasion of the rights of the
latter, these will be ever ready to mark the innova-
tion, to sound the alarm to the people, and to exert
their local influence in effecting a change of federal
representatives. There being no such intermediate
body between the State legislatures and the people
interested in watching the conduct of the former,
violations of the State constitutions are more likely
to remain unnoticed and unredressed.

2. "This Constitution and the laws of the United
States which shall be made in pursuance thereof,

376 Alexander Hamilton

and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under
the authority of the United States, shall be the su-
preme law of the land, and the judges in every State
shall be bound thereby, any thing in the constitu-
tion or laws of any State to the contrary notwith-
standing.

The indiscreet zeal of the adversaries to the Con-
stitution has betrayed them into an attack on this
part of it also, without which it would have been
evidently and radically defective. To be fully
sensible of this, we need only suppose for a moment
that the supremacy of the State constitutions had
been left complete by a saving clause in their favor.

In the first place, as these constitutions invest the
State legislatures with absolute sovereignty, in all
cases not excepted by the existing articles of Con-
federation, all the authorities contained in the pro-
posed Constitution, so far as they exceed those
enumerated in the Confederation, would have been
annulled, and the new Congress would have been
reduced to the same impotent condition with their
predecessors.

In the next place, as the constitutions of some of
the States do not even expressly and fully recognize
the existing powers of the Confederacy, an express
saving of the supremacy of the former would, in such
States, have brought into question every power con-
tained in the proposed Constitution.

In the third place, as the constitutions of the
States differ much from each other, it might happen
that a treaty or national law, of great and equal
importance to the States, would interfere with some

The Federalist 377

and not with other constitutions, and would conse-
quently be valid in some of the States, at the same
time that it would have no effect in others.

In fine, the world would have seen, for the first
time, a system of government founded on an inver-
sion of the fundamental principles of all government ;
it would have seen the authority of the whole society
everywhere subordinate to the authority of the parts ;
it would have seen a monster, in which the head
was under the direction of the members.

3. "The Senators and Representatives, and the
members of the several State legislatures, and all
executive and judicial officers, both of the United
States and the several States, shall be bound by
oath or affirmation to support this Constitution."

It has been asked why it was thought necessary,
that the State magistracy should be bound to sup-
port the federal Constitution, and unnecessary that
a like oath should be imposed on the officers of the
United States, in favor of the State constitutions.

Several reasons might be assigned for the distinc-
tion. I content myself with one, which is obvious
and conclusive. The members of the federal govern-
ment will have no agency in carrying the State
constitutions into effect. The members and officers
of the State governments, on the contrary, will have
an essential agency in giving effect to the federal
Constitution. The election of the President and
Senate will depend, in all cases, on the legislatures of
the several States. And the election of the House of
Representatives will equally depend on the same
authority in the first instance; and will, probably,

378 Alexander Hamilton

forever be conducted by the officers, and according
to the laws, of the States.

4. Among the provisions for giving efficacy to the
federal powers might be added those which belong
to the executive and judiciary departments: but as
these are reserved for particular examination in an-
other place, I pass them over in this.

We have now reviewed, in detail, all the articles
composing the sum or quantity of power delegated
by the proposed Constitution to the federal govern-
ment, and are brought to this undeniable conclusion,
that no part of the power is unnecessary or improper
for accomplishing the necessary objects of the Union.
The question, therefore, whether this amount of
power shall be granted or not, resolves itself into
another question, whether or not a government com-
mensurate to the exigencies of the Union shall be
established; or, in other words, whether the Union
itself shall be preserved. Publius.

For the Independent Journal

THE FEDERALIST. No. XLV

(madison)

To the People of the State of New York:

Having shown that no one of the powers trans-
ferred to the federal government is unnecessary or
improper, the next question to be considered is,
whether the whole mass of them will be dangerous to
the portion of authority left in the several States.

The adversaries to the plan of the convention,

The Federalist 379

instead of considering in the first place what degree
of power was absolutely necessary for the purposes
of the federal government, have exhausted them-
selves in a secondary inquiry into the possible con-
sequences of the proposed degree of power to the
governments of the particular States. But if the
Union, as has been shown, be essential to the security
of the people of America against foreign danger; if
it be essential to their security against contentions
and wars among the different States ; if it be essential
to guard them against those violent and oppressive
factions which embitter the blessings of liberty, and
against those military establishments which must
gradually poison its very fountain; if, in a word, the
Union be essential to the happiness of the people of
America, is it not preposterous, to urge as an objec-
tion to a government, without which the objects of
the Union cannot be attained, that such a govern-
ment may derogate from the importance of the
governments of the individual States? Was, then,
the American Revolution effected, was the Ameri-
can Confederacy formed, was the precious blood of
thousands spilt, and the hard-earned substance of mil-
lions lavished, not that the people of America should
enjoy peace, liberty, and safety, but that the gov-
ernments of the individual States, that particular
municipal establishments, might enjoy a certain ex-
tent of power, and be arrayed with certain dignities
and attributes of sovereignty? We have heard of
the impious doctrine in the Old World, that the
people were made for kings, not kings for the people.
Is the same doctrine to be revived in the New, in

380 Alexander Hamilton

another shape — that the solid happiness of the people
is to be sacrificed to the views of political institutions
of a different form? It is too early for politicians to
presume on our forgetting that the public good, the
real welfare of the great body of the people, is the
supreme object to be pursued; and that no form of
government whatever has any other value than as
it may be fitted for the attainment of this object.
Were the plan of the convention adverse to the
public happiness, my voice would be, Reject the plan.
Were the Union itself inconsistent with the public
happiness, it would be, Abolish the Union. In like
manner, as far as the sovereignty of the States can-
not be reconciled to the happiness of the people, the
voice of every good citizen must be, Let the former
be sacrificed to the latter. How far the sacrifice is
necessary, has been shown. How far the unsacrificed
residue will be endangered, is the question before us.

Several important considerations have been
touched in the course of these papers, which dis-
countenance the supposition that the operation of
the federal government will by degrees prove fatal
to the State governments. The more I revolve the
subject, the more fully I am persuaded that the
balance is much more likely to be disturbed by
the preponderancy of the last than of the first scale.

We have seen, in all the examples of ancient and
modern confederacies, the strongest tendency con-
tinually betraying itself in the members, to despoil
the general government of its authorities, with a very
ineffectual capacity in the latter to defend itself
against the encroachments. Although, in most of

The Federalist 381

these examples, the system has been so dissimilar
from that under consideration as greatly to weaken
any inference concerning the latter from the fate of the
former, yet, as the States will retain, under the pro-
posed Constitution, a very extensive portion of act-
ive sovereignty, the inference ought not to be wholly
disregarded. In the Achaean league it is probable
that the federal head had a degree and species of
power, which gave it a considerable likeness to the
government framed by the convention. The Lycian
Confederacy, as far as its principles and form are
transmitted, must have borne a still greater analogy
to it. Yet history does not inform us that either
of them ever degenerated, or tended to degenerate,
into one consolidated government. On the contrary,
we know that the ruin of one of them proceeded from
the incapacity of the federal authority to prevent the
dissensions, and finally the disunion, of the subor-
dinate authorities. These cases are the more
worthy of our attention, as the external causes by
which the component parts were pressed together
were much more numerous and powerful than in
our case; and consequently less powerful ligaments
within would be sufficient to bind the members to
the head, and to each other.

In the feudal system, we have seen a similar pro-
pensity exemplified. Notwithstanding the want of
proper sympathy in every instance between the local
sovereigns and the people, and the sympathy in some
instances between the general sovereign and the
latter, it usually happened that the local sovereigns
prevailed in the rivalship for encroachments. Had

382 Alexander Hamilton

no external dangers enforced internal harmony and
subordination, and particularly, had the local sov-
ereigns possessed the affections of the people, the
great kingdoms in Europe would at this time consist
of as many independent princes as there were
formerly feudatory barons.

The State governments will have the advantage of
the Federal government, whether we compare them
in respect to the immediate dependence of the one on
the other; to the weight of personal influence which
each side will possess; to the powers respectively
vested in them ; to the predilection and probable sup-
port of the people; to the disposition and faculty of
resisting and frustrating the measures of each other.

The State governments may be regarded as con-
stituent and essential parts of the federal govern-
ment; whilst the latter is nowise essential to the
operation or organization of the former. Without
the intervention of the State legislatures, the Presi-
dent of the United States cannot be elected at all.
They must in all cases have a great share in his ap-
pointment, and will, perhaps, in most cases, of them-
selves determine it. The Senate will be elected
absolutely and exclusively by the State legislatures.
Even the House of Representatives, though drawn
immediately from the people, will be chosen very
much under the influence of that class of men, whose
influence over the people obtains for themselves an
election into the State legislatures. Thus, each of
the principal branches of the federal government
will owe its existence more or less to the favor of the
State governments, and must consequently feel a

The Federalist 383

dependence, which is much more likely to beget a
disposition too obsequious than too overbearing
towards them. On the other side, the component
parts of the State governments will in no instance
be indebted for their appointment to the direct
agency of the federal government, and very little, if
at all, to the local influence of its members.

The number of individuals employed under the
Constitution of the United States will be much
smaller than the number employed under the par-
ticular States. There will consequently be less of
personal influence on the side of the former than of
the latter. The members of the legislative, execu-
tive, and judiciary departments of thirteen and more
States, the justices of peace, officers of militia,
ministerial officers of justice, with all the county,
corporation, and town officers, for three millions and
more of people, intermixed, and having particular
acquaintance with every class and circle of people,
must exceed, beyond all proportion, both in number
and influence, those of every description who will be
employed in the administration of the federal system.
Compare the members of the three great departments
of the thirteen States, excluding from the judiciary
department the justices of peace, with the members
of the corresponding departments of the single gov-
ernment of the Union; compare the militia officers
of three millions of people with the military and
marine officers of any establishment which is within
the compass of probability, or, I may add, of possi-
bility, and in this view alone, we may pronounce the
advantage of the States to be decisive. If the

384 Alexander Hamilton

federal government is to have collectors of revenue,
the State governments will have theirs also. And
as those of the former will be principally on the sea-
coast, and not very numerous, whilst those of the
latter will be spread over the face of the country,
and will be very numerous, the advantage in this
view also lies on the same side. It is true, that the
Confederacy is to possess, and may exercise, the
power of collecting internal as well as external taxes
throughout the States; but it is probable that this
power will not be resorted to, except for supple-
mental purposes of revenue ; that an option will then
be given to the States to supply their quotas by
previous collections of their own; and that the
eventual collection, under the immediate authority
of the Union, will generally be made by the officers,
and according to the rules, appointed by the several
States. Indeed it is extremely probable, that in
other instances, particularly in the organization of the
judicial power, the officers of the States will be clothed
with the correspondent authority of the Union.
Should it happen, however, that separate collectors
of internal revenue should be appointed under the
federal government, the influence of the whole num-
ber would not bear a comparison with that of the
multitude of State officers in the opposite scale.
Within every district to which a federal collector
would be allotted, there would not be less than thirty
or forty, or even more, officers of different descrip-
tions, and many of them persons of character and
weight, whose influence would lie on the side of the
State.

The Federalist 385

The powers delegated by the proposed Constitution
to the federal government are few and defined.
Those which are to remain in the State governments
are numerous and indefinite. The former will be
exercised principally on external objects, as war,
peace, negotiation, and foreign commerce; with
which last the power of taxation will, for the most
part, be connected. The powers reserved to the
several States will extend to all the objects which,
in the ordinary course of affairs, concern the lives,
liberties, and properties of the people, and the in-
ternal order, improvement, and prosperity of the
State.

The operations of the federal government will be
most extensive and important in times of war and
danger; those of the State governments, in times of
peace and security. As the former periods will
probably bear a small proportion to the latter, the
State governments will here enjoy another advantage
over the federal government. The more adequate,
indeed, the federal powers may be rendered to the
national defence, the less frequent will be those scenes
of danger which might favor their ascendancy over
the governments of the particular States.

If the new Constitution be examined with accuracy
and candor, it will be found that the change which it
proposes consists much less in the addition of new
powers to the Union, than in the invigoration of its
original powers. The regulation of commerce, it
is true, is a new power; but that seems to be an
addition which few oppose, and from which no appre-
hensions are entertained. The powers relating to

VOL. XI.— 25.

386 Alexander Hamilton

war and peace, armies and fleets, treaties and finance,
with the other more considerable powers, are all
vested in the existing Congress by the articles of
Confederation. The proposed change does not en-
large these powers; it only substitutes a more
effectual mode of administering them. The change
relating to taxation may be regarded as the most
important; and yet the present Congress have as
complete authority to require of the States in-
definite supplies of money for the common defence
and general welfare, as the future Congress will
have to require them of individual citizens ; and the
latter will be no more bound than the States them-
selves have been, to pay the quotas respectively
taxed on them. Had the States complied punctually
with the articles of Confederation, or could their
compliance have been enforced by as peaceable means
as may be used with success towards single persons,
our past experience is very far from countenancing
an opinion, that the State governments would have
lost their constitutional powers, and have gradually
undergone an entire consolidation. To maintain
that such an event would have ensued, would be to
say at once, that the existence of the State govern-
ments is incompatible with any system whatever that
accomplishes the essential purposes of the Union.

PUBLIUS.
END OF VOL. XI.

University of
Connecticut

Libraries

ayit>3G289722i6

GESTECHERTiCo
lALFREDHAFNER)
NEW YORK


===== Alexander Hamilton - Works of Alexander Hamilton (Lodge, 12 vols) + Founders Online (vol. 12) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofalexander12hami/worksofalexander12hami_djvu.txt

hx), ■(

\^f^T^2.

\

BOOK 973.4. H18 v. 1 2 c 1
HAMILTON # WORKS

This book may be kept

FOURTEEN DAYS

A fine of TWO CENTS will be charged for each day
the book is kept over time.

Constitutional jEbition

The Works of

>^i.

Alexander Hamilton

Edited by

Henry Cabot Lodge

^* The sacred rights of mankind are not to be rummaged for among old parchments or
musty records. They are \rrittcn, as with a sunbeam, in the whole volume of human nature,
by the hand of the Divinity itself, and can never be erased or obscured by mortal power."

[Hamilton — The Fartner Refuted^ 1775, iEt. 18.]

" We are laboring hard to establish in this country principles more and more national^
and free from all foreign ingredients, so that we may be neither ' Greeks nor Trojans,' but
truly Americans." — [Hamilton to King, 1796, /Et. 39.]

Volume XII

Go Pc Putnam's Sons

New York and London
^be l?ntcF?erbocker press

Ube ftnicfterbocfter press, flew Jgorft

CONTENTS

PAGB

No. XLVI. — The Influence op the State and Fed-
eral Governments Compared ... 3

Federal and State governments only different agents of
the same constituents — The first attachment of the people
will be to the State governments — Reasons for this —
Popularity will come to the federal government only if it
is better administered — Reasons for this — Objection on
score of federal military power answered — Concluding re-
marks on the proposition that the powers of the Union
will be dangerous to the State governments.

No. XLVII. — The Particular Structure op the

New Government and the Distribution op

Power among its Different Parts . . 13

The maxim that there should be separate and distinct
departments considered — This maxim true — The new Con-
stitution does not violate it — The views of Montesquieu —
The provisions of the various State constitutions on this
point examined.

No. XLVIII. — These Departments should not be
so Far Separated as to Have No Constitu-
tional Control over Each Other . . 24

Powers of one department, it is conceded, should not be
exercised by another — One department should not have
an overruling influence over another — Security against
the invasion of one department by another considered —
Insufficiency of new constitutional restrictions — The
tendency of the legislature to absorb the other depart-
ments— Reasons for this — An instance of executive en-
croachment explained.

iii

iv Contents

PAGB

No. XLIX. — Method of Guarding against the En-
croachments OF Any One Department op
Government by Appealing to the People
through a Convention 31

Propriety of a well-defined mode of appealing to the peo-
ple— A sufficient remedy — Very dangerous and useless if
too frequently applied — Reasons for this — When such
appeals are useful — Remarks on occasional appeals to the
people.

No. L. — Periodical Appeals to the People Consid-
ered 38

The merits and disadvantages of short and long inter-
vals— Example of Pennsylvania.

No. LI. — The Structure of the Government must

Furnish the Proper Checks and Balances

between the different departments . 42

Modes of obtaining these mutual checks and balances —
Advantages of the federal government in securing the
rights of the people — Division of the delegated powers —
Different interests among the people.

No. LII. — The House of Representatives . . 50

Electors — The qualifications of the members — The term
of office — Biennial elections — Value of frequent elections
— ^Terms of service in other governments — In England,
Ireland, and in the American colonies — Biennial elections
not dangerous — Reasons for this drawn from the nature
and position of Congress.

No. LIII. — The Same Subject Continued . . 57

Objection that when annual elections end tyranny be-
gins answered — Biennial elections necessary and useful —
Objections to unduly short terms — Biennial elections use-
ful and safe.

No. LIV. — The Apportionment of Members among

THE States ....... 65

Ntmibers the proper standard for representation — Slave
representation — Objection that slaves do not enter into
local representation considered — The right of representa-
tion of property as well as persons — Votes in Congress

Contents v

PAGE

should be proportioned to the wealth of the States — No
inducement for falsifying the census, as it is the basis of
taxation as well as representation.

No. LV. — The Total Number of the House of Rep-
resentatives 73

Importance attached to this subject — Difficulty of de-
termining the proper number — Small States require smaller
ratios — Limited powers of Congress do not demand a
numerous representation — Various objections considered
and answered — Sources of danger considered.

No. LVI. — The Same Subject Continued . . 80

Objection that Congress will be too small to know the
interests and wishes of its constituents considered — The
representative ought to know the interests of his constitu-
ents— Objects of federal legislation — A few representatives
will be sufficient — Taxation — Militia — The experience of
Great Britain.

No. LVII. — ^The Alleged Tendency of the New
Plan to Elevate the Few at the Expense
OF the Many Considered in Connection with
Representation ....... 87

This objection, in principle, strikes at the root of repre-
sentative government — Members elected by and taken
from all classes — Securities to ensure fidelity of members
enumerated — Provisions for electing members, and their
qualifications, like those of State officers — The relative
numbers of the constituencies no reason for approval of
State and disapproval of federal system — The doctrine
neither reasonable nor admissible — It is not sustained by
facts — Examples from House of Commons and from the
States.

No. LVIIL — Objection that the Number of Mem-
bers WILL not be Augmented as the Progress
of Population Demands, Considered . . 95

The State constitutions compared on this point with the
one proposed — The practice of the State governments —
The organization of Congress will induce watchfulness —
The large States will control the small — Objection that the
Senate will prevent augmentation answered — The consti-

vi Contents

PAGB

tutional resource of refusing supplies by the House —
Reasons against a numerous House — Objection to a ma-
jority being a quorum of which a majority can enact laws,
considered.

No. LIX. — Concerning the Power of Congress to

Regulate the Election of Members . . 103

Every government must have the means of self-preserva-
tion— Different depositaries of this power considered —
Exact character and extent of this power — If this power
not given, the federal government will be at the mercy of
the State governments — The right of self-preservation in
the State governments unimpaired — Objection that the
power of the States in the election of senators is equally
dangerous, considered — Reasons for this retention of
power — Objection that the interests of each State will be a
sufficient security against the abuse of the power to control
the election of members by the State governments, con-
sidered.

No. LX. — The Same Subject Continued . . .110

Objection that by this power Congress may promote the
election of a favorite class and exclude others, considered
— Reasons for dismissing this objection enumerated.

No. LXI. — ^The Same Subject Continued . . 119

Objection that there should be a provision that all elec-
tions should be held within the counties where the electors
live — Such a provision harmless and offers no security —
This provision compared with those of State constitutions
— The probability that the power of Congress to fix a uni-
form day for elections will be very important — The want
of any provision in the Constitution fixing such a day con-
sidered— Concluding remarks on the general subject.

No. LXII. — The Senate 124

Qualifications of senators — Appointment of senators by
State legislatures — Equality of representation in Senate —
Mixed character of federal government requires a mixed
representation — Equal representation in Senate a recogni-
tion of sovereignty in the States — The number of senators
and the term for which they are elected — Need of such an
upper house as a security against improper legislation,
against the infirmity of faction, against ignorant legisla-

Contents vii

PAGE

tion, against mutability in its councils from frequent
changes of members — Dangers of such mutability
enumerated.

No. LXIII. — The Senate Continued . . . 134

Prevents a want of a due sense of national character, of
a due responsibility, and of a defence against temporary
errors and delusions — History shows no long-lived republic
without a Senate — Difference between the ancient repub-
lics and the United States — Athens, Carthage, Sparta,
Rome, Crete — Objection that the Senate will acquire a
dangerous preeminence considered — Such a result impossi-
ble— Senate of Maryland — British Parliament — Sparta,
Rome, Carthage — The controlling influence of the House
of Representatives.

No. LXIV. — The Powers of the Senate . . 145

The treaty-making power — Importance of this power —
Property vested in the Senate — A popular body not fit for
this power — Reasons — Objections to this power in the
Senate considered, and reasons for their rejection enumer-
ated— The responsibility of senators.

No. LXV. — The Powers of the Senate Continued . 154

The appointment of public officers — The authority to sit
as a court in the trial of impeachments — Difficidty of form-
ing such a court — The Senate most fit for such a trust —
The plan of delegating this authority to the Supreme Court
considered and rejected — The propriety of uniting the
Supreme Court in this power with the Senate considered
and denied — The propriety of giving this authority to
other persons disconnected with any department of the
government considered and denied — Even if this power
in the Senate is not desirable the Constitution should not
be rejected.

No. LXVI. — Objections to the Power op the Sen-
ate TO Sit as a Court for Impeachments
Further Considered 161

Objection that it unites legislative and judicial functions
— ^This same provision in constitution of New York which
opposition admire — That it unduly accumulates power in
the Senate, and tends to the establishment of an aris-
tocracy— That the Senate will judge too leniently officers

viii Contents

PAGE

for whose confirmation it has voted — That the senators
may be called upon to try themselves for a corrupt use of
the treaty-making power.

No. LXVII. — The Executive Department . . 170

Misrepresentations on this point considered and
answered.

No. LXVIII. — The Mode of Electing the Presi-
dent . 176

The only part of the Constitution not condemned by its
opponents — It is well guarded — Desirable to have the sense
of the people in the choice — Desirable that the choice
should be made by competent persons, as in the Electoral
College: to avoid tumult and disorder; to avoid intrigue
and corruption ; to maintain the President independent of
all but the people — All these advantages here combined —
Choice will seldom fall on one not qualified — The choice of
a Vice-President by the people considered and approved.

No. LXIX. — The Real Character of the Execu-
tive 182

A single person — Compared with the king of Great
Britain and the governor of New York — Elected for four
years, and is reeligible — Further comparison with the same
executives — Liable to impeachment, removal from office,
and punishment by civil law — Compared again as above,
and also with governors of Maryland and Delaware —
Veto power — Compared again as above, and also with
governor of Massachusetts — Commander-in-chief of
militia in federal service — Compared again as above —
Commander-in-chief of the army and navy of the United
States — Compared again as above, and also with governors
of New Hampshire and Massachusetts — Pardoning power
— Compared as above — Treaty-making power — Compared
as above — General review and comparison of executive
powers.

No. LXX. — The Executive Department Further

Considered 193

A vigorous Executive consistent with republican govern-
ment— What constitutes a proper Executive — Unity —
Reasons for this — Vesting executive authority in two or
more magistrates — Restraining the Executive by a cotm-

Contents ix

PAGE

cil — Objections to plurality and control by council enu-
merated.

No. LXXI. — The Duration in Office of the Execu-
tive 20$

It affects his firmness in action — More interest in what
is permanent — The Executive should not be subservient
to popular impulses or to those of the legislature — Inde-
pendence of departments of government necessary —
Shortness of term will lessen independence — The proposed
term of four years considered.

No. LXXII. — The Same Subject Continued, and

Reeligibility of the Executive Considered 211

Duration in office affects stability of administration —
Heads of department dependent on Executive and will
change with him — Reeligibility of Executive — The oppo-
sition to it considered — A limit of a single term would
diminish inducements to good behavior, increase tempta-
tions to misconduct, prevent experience in the office,
deprive the country in emergencies of the services of the
best men, and act as a constitutional barrier to stability of
administration — The supposed advantages of a single
term considered — The people should not be prevented
from choosing men of experience.

No. LXXIII. — The Provision for the Support op

THE Executive, and the Veto Power . . 219

Without suitable provision the Executive will be at the
mercy of the legislature, and the independence of the
Executive should not be impaired — The veto power —
Reasons for and against enumerated and considered — The
veto power not absolute — It already exists in New York
and Massachusetts.

No. LXXIV. — The Command of the Military and
Naval Forces, and the Pardoning Power of
THE Executive 228

No. LXXV. — The Treaty-Making Power of the

Executive 232

One of the best features of the Constitution — Objection
that it combines the executive and legislative departments

X Contents

PAGE

considered — It is a proper combination — Reason for this —
House of Representatives cannot properly be admitted —
Objection to requiring only two thirds of senators present.

No. LXXVI. — ^The Appointing Power of the Ex-
ecutive 239

This an excellent feature — This power cannot be exer-
cised by the people at large — It will cause a livelier sense of
duty in the Executive — Objection to its being intrusted to
the President alone — He may be overruled by Senate —
Concurrence of Senate a check on favoritism — Objection
that the President may thus control Senate considered —
Whole body of Senate cannot be corrupted — Protection of
Constitution.

No. LXXVII. — The Appointing Power Continued
AND Other Powers of the Executive Consid-
ered ........ 246

The concurrence of the Senate necessary to displace as
well as to appoint — Objections as to undue control of the
Senate by the President, or the reverse, considered — Com-
pared with system of appointment in New York — Ap-
pointing power should be delegated to a council or shared in
by the House — Power to communicate information to Con-
gress ; to recommend measures to Congress ; to convene one
or both branches of Congress; to adjourn Congress; to
receive ambassadors and other public ministers; to exe-
cute the laws of the Union; to commission all officers of
the United States — Concluding remarks on the Executive.

No. LXXVIII. — The Judiciary Department . . 254

Mode of appointment — Tenure — Need of complete inde-
pendence— Authority pronounced on the constitutionality
of the laws — The legislature should be the judge of its own
powers — Interpretation of the laws the peculiar province
of the judiciary — Need of independence on this account —
Independence required for judiciary as guardians of the
Constitution and of private rights as well — Wisdom of re-
quiring good behavior as the tenure.

No. LXXIX. — ^The Judiciary Continued . . 265

A fixed provision for the support of the judiciary neces-
sary to their independence — Responsibility of the judiciary
— Judges liable to impeachment — Cannot be made re-

Contents xi

PAGE

movable for inability — Reasons for this — Comparison
with constitution of New York.

No. LXXX. — The Powers of the Judiciary . . 269

To what cases the judicial authority ought to extend —
To all cases which arise from duly enacted laws of the
Union; which concern the execution of the provisions of
the Constitution; in which the United States is a party;
which involve the peace of the Union in foreign relations,
or when two States, or a State and the citizens of another
State, or the citizens of different States, are parties;
which originate on the high seas or are of admiralty juris-
diction ; in which State tribunals cannot be supposed to be
implicated — To what cases authority of judiciary will
extend under proposed Constitution — Statement of con-
stitutional provisions — These provisions conform to what
the powers of the judiciary ought to be — Propriety of dele-
gating equity jurisdiction.

No. LXXXI. — The Judiciary Continued, and the

Distribution of the Judicial Authority . 279

Propriety of establishing one court of final and supreme
jurisdiction — Propriety of delegating judicial authority to
a distinct department — Objections to this considered —
This delegation of authority secures more completely the
separation of the judiciary from the legislature, recognizes
more fully the principle of good behavior as a tenure, se-
cures greater legal ability, and removes the judiciary from
party strife — The example of certain of the States — That
no legislature can rectify judicial mistakes except as to
future action, and the danger of encroachments by the
judiciary on the legislature, considered — Propriety of con-
stituting inferior courts — Relief to Supreme Court — State
courts not fit for this — Advantage of dividing United States
into judicial districts — Manner in which authority should
be distributed — Original jurisdiction of Supreme Court —
Original jurisdiction of inferior courts — Appellate jurisdic-
tion of Supreme Court,

No. LXXXII. — ^The Judiciary Continued . . 293

The jurisdiction of the State courts on federal questions
— ^The State courts will retain all that is not exclusively
delegated — Decision of causes arising from a particular

xll Contents

PAGE

regulation may be delegated by Congress exclusively to
Supreme Court — Relation between State and federal
courts when they have concurrent jurisdiction — An appeal
will lie from State courts to the Supreme Court — The ap-
pellate jurisdiction of the inferior federal courts.

No. LXXXIII. — The Judiciary Continued in Rela-
tion TO Trial by Jury ..... 299

Objection that there is no provision in the proposed
Constitution for trial by jury in civil cases considered —
True meaning of maxims on which this objection rests —
Importance of right of trial by jury considered — Criminal
and civil cases — ^Jury system in different States — Diffi-
culty of establishing a general rule — Impropriety of such
a general rule in certain cases — The proposition of Massa-
chusetts— The provisions of the New York constitution —
The proposition that the jury system should be established
in all cases whatever — Concluding remarks.

No. LXXXIV. — Certain General and Miscella-
neous Objections to the Constitution Con-
sidered and Answered ..... 320

Bill of rights — Liberty of the press — Seat of government
too remote — No provision for debts due to the United
States — Additional expenses of new system — Concluding
remarks.

No. LXXXV. — Concluding Remarks . . . 336

Manner in which subject has been discussed — An appeal
to the reader to weigh the matter carefully and act con-
scientiously— Confidence of Publius in the arguments which
he has advanced — The conceded imperfections no reason
for delay — Extent of them exaggerated — The Constitution
not radically defective — Rights and interests of the people
safe under Constitution — Not perfect, but a good plan —
The state of the country forbids delay in vainly seeking a
perfect plan — Difficulty of having another convention —
Easier to cure defects by amendments after the adoption
— No plan can be satisfactory to all the States — Supposed
obstacles in the way of making subsequent amendments
considered — ^The ease with which a federal convention
may be called to make amendments — Conclusion.

Contents xiii

PAGE

Appendix:

The Articles of Confederation . . . 349

The Constitution of the United States and

the Amendments Thereto . . . 362

Index 393

THE FEDERALIST— Continued

VOL. XII. — X,

THE FEDERALIST— Confy'nued

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, January 29, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XLVI
(madison)

To the People of the State of New York :

Resuming the subject of the last paper, I proceed
to inquire whether the federal government or the
State governments will have the advantage with
regard to the predilection and support of the people.
Notwithstanding the different modes in which they
are appointed, we must consider both of them as
substantially dependent on the great body of the
citizens of the United States. I assume this posi-
tion here as it respects the first, reserving the proofs
for another place. The federal and State govern-
ments are in fact but different agents and trustees
of the people, constituted with different powers, and
designed for different purposes. The adversaries of
the Constitution seem to have lost sight of the people
altogether in their reasonings on this subject ; and to
have viewed these different establishments, not only
as mutual rivals and enemies, but as uncontrolled
by any common superior in their efforts to usurp the
authorities of each other. These gentlemen must
here be reminded of their error. They must be told
4 Alexander Hamilton

that the ultimate authority, wherever the derivative
may be found, resides in the people alone, and that
it will not depend merely on the comparative ambi-
tion or address of the different governments, whether
either, or which of them, will be able to enlarge its
sphere of jurisdiction at the expense of the other.
Truth, no less than decency, requires that the
event in every case should be supposed to depend
on the sentiments and sanction of their common
constituents.

Many considerations, besides those suggested on
a former occasion, seem to place it beyond doubt
that the first and most natural attachment of the
people will be to the governments of their respective
States. Into the administration of these a greater
number of individuals will expect to rise. From
the gift of these a greater number of offices and
emoluments will flow. By the superintending care
of these, all the more domestic and personal interests
of the people will be regulated and provided for.
With the affairs of these, the people will be more
familiarly and minutely conversant. And with the
members of these, will a greater proportion of the
people have the ties of personal acquaintance and
friendship, and of family and party attachments;
on the side of these, therefore, the popular bias may
well be expected most strongly to incline.

Experience speaks the same language in this case.
The federal administration, though hitherto very
defective in comparison with what may be hoped
under a better system, had, during the war, and par-
ticularly whilst the independent fund of paper emis-

The Federalist 5

sions was in credit, an activity and importance as
great as it can well have in any future circumstances
whatever. It was engaged, too, in a course of
measures which had for their object the protection
of every thing that was dear, and the acquisition of
every thing that could be desirable to the people at
large. It was, nevertheless, invariably found, after
the transient enthusiasm for the early Congresses
was over, that the attention and attachment of the
people were turned anew to their own particular gov-
ernments ; that the federal council was at no time the
idol of popular favor; and that opposition to pro-
posed enlargements of its powers and importance
was the side usually taken by the men who wished
to build their political consequence on the prepos-
sessions of their fellow-citizens.

If, therefore, as has been elsewhere remarked, the
people should in future become more partial to the
federal than to the State governments, the change
can only result from such manifest and irresistible
proofs of a better administration, as will overcome
all their antecedent propensities. And in that case,
the people ought not surely to be precluded from
giving most of their confidence where they may dis-
cover it to be most due; but even in that case the
State governments could have little to apprehend,
because it is only within a certain sphere that the
federal power can, in the nature of things, be advan-
tageously administered.

The remaining points on which I propose to com-
pare the federal and State governments, are the
disposition and the faculty they may respectively

6 Alexander Hamilton

possess, to resist and frustrate the measures of each
other.

It has been already proved that the members of
the federal will be more dependent on the members
of the State governments, than the latter will be on
the former. It has appeared also, that the pre-
possessions of the people, on whom both will depend,
will be more on the side of the State governments,
than of the federal government. So far as the dis-
position of each towards the other may be influenced
by these causes, the State governments must clearly
have the advantage. But in a distinct and very
important point of view, the advantage will lie on
the same side. The prepossessions, which the mem-
bers themselves will carry into the federal govern-
ment, will generally be favorable to the States;
whilst it will rarely happen, that the members of the
State governments will carry into the public councils
a bias in favor of the general government. A local
spirit will infallibly prevail much more in the mem-
bers of Congress, than a national spirit will prevail
in the legislatures of the particular States. Every
one knows that a great proportion of the errors com-
mitted by the State legislatures proceeds from the
disposition of the members to sacrifice the compre-
hensive and permanent interest of the State, to the
particular and separate views of the counties or dis-
tricts in which they reside. And if they do not
sufficiently enlarge their policy to embrace the col-
lective welfare of their particular State, how can it
be imagined that they will make the aggregate pro-
sperity of the Union, and the dignity and respectabil-

The Federalist 7

ity of its government, the objects of their affections
and consultations? For the same reason that the
members of the State legislatures will be unlikely
to attach themselves sufficiently to national objects,
the members of the federal legislature will be likely
to attach themselves too much to local objects. The
States will be to the latter what counties and towns
are to the former. Measures will too often be decided
according to their probable effect, not on the national
prosperity and happiness, but on the prejudices, in-
terests, and pursuits of the governments and people
of the individual States. What is the spirit that has
in general characterized the proceedings of Con-
gress? A perusal of their journals, as well as the
candid acknowledgments of such as have had a seat
in that assembly, will inform us, that the members
have but too frequently displayed the character,
rather of partisans of their respective States, than
of impartial guardians of a common interest; that
where on one occasion improper sacrifices have been
made of local considerations, to the aggrandizement
of the federal government, the great interests of the
nation have suffered on a hundred, from an undue
attention to the local prejudices, interests, and views
of the particular States. 1 mean not by these re-
flections to insinuate, that the new federal govern-
ment will not embrace a more enlarged plan of policy
than the existing government may have pursued;
much less, that its views will be as confined as those
of the State legislatures ; but only that it will partake
sufficiently of the spirit of both, to be disinclined to
invade the rights of the individual States, or the

8 Alexander Hamilton

prerogatives of their governments. The motives on
the part of the State governments, to augment their
prerogatives by defalcations from the federal govern-
ment, will be overruled by no reciprocal predisposi-
tions in the members.

Were it admitted, however, that the Federal gov-
ernment may feel an equal disposition with the State
governments to extend its power beyond the due
limits, the latter would still have the advantage in
the means of defeating such encroachments. If an
act of a particular State, though unfriendly to the
national government, be generally popular in that
State, and should not too grossly violate the oaths
of the State officers, it is executed immediately, and,
of course, by means on the spot and depending
on the State alone. The opposition of the federal
government, or the interposition of federal officers,
would but inflame the zeal of all parties on the side
of the State, and the evil could not be prevented or
repaired, if at all, without the employment of means
which must always be resorted to with reluctance
and difficulty. On the other hand, should an un-
warrantable measure of the federal government be
unpopular in particular States, which would seldom
fail to be the case, or even a warrantable measure be
so, which may sometimes be the case, the means of
opposition to it are powerful and at hand. The dis-
quietude of the people; their repugnance and, per-
haps, refusal to cooperate with the officers of the
Union; the frowns of the executive magistracy of
the State; the embarrassments created by legisla-
tive devices, which would often be added on such

The Federalist 9

occasions, would oppose, in any State, difficulties
not to be despised; would form, in a large State,
very serious impediments; and where the senti-
ments of several adjoining States happened to be in
unison, would present obstructions which the federal
government would hardly be willing to encounter.

But ambitious encroachments of the federal gov-
ernment, on the authority of the State governments,
would not excite the opposition of a single State, or
of a few States only. They would be signals of gen-
eral alarm. Every government would espouse the
common cause. A correspondence would be opened.
Plans of resistance would be concerted. One spirit
would animate and conduct the whole. The same
combinations in short, would result from an appre-
hension of the federal, as was produced by the dread
of a foreign, yoke; and unless the projected innova-
tions should be voluntarily renounced, the same ap-
peal to a trial of force would be made in the one case
as was made in the other. But what degree of mad-
ness could ever drive the federal government to such
an extremity. In the contest with Great Britain,
one part of the empire was employed against the
other. The more numerous part invaded the rights
of the less numerous part. The attempt was unjust
and unwise ; but it was not in speculation absolutely
chimerical. But what would be the contest in the
case we are supposing? Who would be the parties?
A few representatives of the people would be opposed
to the people themselves; or rather one set of re-
presentatives would be contending against thirteen
sets of representatives, with the whole body of

lo Alexander Hamilton

their common constituents on the side of the
latter.

The only refuge left for those who prophesy the
downfall of the State governments is the visionary
supposition that the federal government may pre-
viously accumulate a military force for the projects
of ambition. The reasonings contained in these
papers must have been employed to little purpose
indeed, if it could be necessary now to disprove the
reality of this danger. That the people and the
States should, for a sufficient period of time, elect an
uninterrupted succession of men ready to betray
both; that the traitors should, throughout this
period, uniformly and systematically pursue some
fixed plan for the extension of the military establish-
ment; that the governments and the people of the
States should silently and patiently behold the
gathering storm, and continue to supply the ma-
terials, until it should be prepared to burst on their
own heads, must appear to every one more like the
incoherent dreams of a delirious jealousy, or the
misjudged exaggerations of a counterfeit zeal, than
like the sober apprehensions of genuine patriotism.
Extravagant as the supposition is, let it however be
made. Let a regular army, fully equal to the re-
sources of the country, be formed; and let it be
entirely at the devotion of the federal government;
still it would not be going too far to say, that the
State governments, with the people on their side,
would be able to repel the danger. The highest
number to which, according to the best computa-
tion, a standing army can be carried in any country,

The Federalist ii

does not exceed one hundredth part of the whole
number of souls; or one twenty-fifth part of the
number able to bear arms. This proportion would
not yield, in the United States, an army of more
than twenty-five or thirty thousand men. To these
would be opposed a militia amounting to near half
a million of citizens with arms in their hands,
officered by men chosen from among themselves,
fighting for their common liberties, and united and
conducted by governments possessing their affections
and confidence. It may well be doubted, whether
a militia thus circumstanced could ever be con-
quered by such a proportion of regular troops. Those
who are best acquainted with the last successful re-
sistance of this country against the British arms, will
be most inclined to deny the possibility of it. Be-
sides the advantage of being armed, which the
Americans possess over the people of almost every
other nation, the existence of subordinate govern-
ments, to which the people are attached, and by
which the militia officers are appointed, forms a
barrier against the enterprises of ambition, more in-
surmountable than any which a simple government
of any form can admit of. Notwithstanding the
military establishments in the several kingdoms of
Europe, which are carried as far as the public re-
sources will bear, the governments are afraid to
trust the people with arms. And it is not certain,
that with this aid alone they would not be able
to shake off their yokes. But were the people to
possess the additional advantages of local govern-
ments chosen by themselves, who could collect the

12 Alexander Hamilton

national will and direct the national force, and of
officers appointed out of the militia, by these gov-
ernments, and attached both to them and to the
militia, it may be affirmed with the greatest assur-
ance, that the throne of every tyranny in Europe
would be speedily overturned in spite of the legions,
which surround it. Let us not insult the free and
gallant citizens of America with the suspicion, that
they would be less able to defend the rights of which
they would be in actual possession, than the de-
based subjects of arbitrary power would be to rescue
theirs from the hands of their oppressors. Let us
rather no longer insult them with the supposition
that they can ever reduce themselves to the necessity
of making the experiment, by a blind and tame sub-
mission to the long train of insidious measures which
must precede and produce it.

The argument under the present head may be put
into a very concise form, which appears altogether
conclusive. Either the mode in which the federal
government is to be constructed will render it
sufficiently dependent on the people, or it will not.
On the first supposition, it will be restrained by
that dependence from forming schemes obnoxious
to their constituents. On the other supposition, it
will not possess the confidence of the people, and its
schemes of usurpation will be easily defeated by the
State governments, who will be supported by the
people.

On summing up the considerations stated in this
and the last paper, they seem to amount to the most
convincing evidence, that the powers proposed to

The Federalist 13

be lodged in the federal government are as little
formidable to those reserved to the individual States,
as they are indispensably necessary to accomplish
the purposes of the Union ; and that all those alarms
which have been sounded, of a meditated and con-
sequential annihilation of the State governments,
must, on the most favorable interpretation, be as-
cribed to the chimerical fears of the authors of them.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet ^ Friday^ February i, 1788
i?HE FEDERALIS'5?. No. XLVII
(madison)

To the People of the State of New York:

Having reviewed the general form of the proposed
government and the general mass of power allotted
to it, I proceed to examine the particular structure
of this government, and the distribution of this mass
of power among its constituent parts.

One of the principal objections inculcated by the
more respectable adversaries to the Constitution, is
its supposed violation of the political maxim, that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments
ought to be separate and distinct. In the structure
of the federal government, no regard, it is said,
seems to have been paid to this essential precaution
in favor of liberty. The several departments of
power are distributed and blended in such a manner
as at once to destroy all symmetry and beauty of
form, and to expose some of the essential parts of

1 4 Alexander Hamilton

the edifice to the danger of being crushed by the
disproportionate weight of other parts.

No poHtical truth is certainly of greater intrinsic
value, or is stamped with the authority of more
enlightened patrons of liberty, than that on which
the objection is founded. The accumulation of all
powers, legislative, executive, and judiciary, in the
same hands, whether of one, a few, or many, and
whether hereditary, self-appointed, or elective, may
justly be pronounced the very definition of tyranny.
Were the federal Constitution, therefore, really
chargeable with the accumulation of power, or with
a mixture of powers, having a dangerous tendency
to such an accumulation, no further arguments
would be necessary to inspire a universal reproba-
tion of the system. I persuade myself, however,
that it will be made apparent to every one, that the
charge cannot be supported, and that the maxim on
which it relies has been totally misconceived and
misapplied. In order to form correct ideas on this
important subject, it will be proper to investigate
the sense in which the preservation of liberty re-
quires that the three great departments of power
should be separate and distinct.

The oracle who is always consulted and cited on
this subject is the celebrated Montesquieu. If he
be not the author of this invaluable precept in the
science of politics, he has the merit at least of dis-
playing and recommending it most effectually to
the attention of mankind. Let us endeavor, in the
first place, to ascertain his meaning on this point.

The British Constitution was to Montesquieu

The Federalist 15

what Homer has been to the didactic writers on epic
poetry. As the latter have considered the work of
the immortal bard as the perfect model from which
the principles and rules of the epic art were to be
drawn, and by which all similar works were to be
judged, so this great political critic appears to have
viewed the Constitution of England as the standard,
or to use his own expression, as the mirror of politi-
cal liberty; and to have delivered, in the form of
elementary truths, the several characteristic prin-
ciples of that particular system. That we may be
sure, then, not to mistake his meaning in this case,
let us recur to the source from which the maxim was
drawn.

On the slightest view of the British Constitution,
we must perceive that the legislative, executive, and
judiciary departments are by no means totally sepa-
rate and distinct from each other. The executive
magistrate forms an integral part of the legislative
authority. He alone has the prerogative of making
treaties with foreign sovereigns, which, when made,
have, under certain limitations, the force of legis-
lative acts. All the members of the judiciary de-
partment are appointed by him, can be removed by
him on the address of the two. Houses of Parliament,
and form, when he pleases to consult them, one
of his constitutional councils. One branch of the
legislative department forms also a great constitu-
tional council to the executive chief, as, on another
hand, it is the sole depositary of judicial power in
cases of impeachment, and is invested with the
supreme appellate jurisdiction in all other cases.

1 6 Alexander Hamilton

The judges, again, are so far connected with the
legislative department as often to attend and par-
ticipate in its deliberations, though not admitted to
a legislative vote.

From these facts, by which Montesquieu was
guided, it may clearly be inferred that, in saying
** There can be no liberty where the legislative and
executive powers are united in the same person, or
body of magistrates," or, '*if the power of judging
be not separated from the legislative and executive
powers," he did not mean that these departments
ought to have no partial agency in, or no control over,
the acts of each other. His meaning, as his own
words import, and still more conclusively as illus-
trated by the example in his eye, can amount to no
more than this, that where the whole power of one
department is exercised by the same hands which
possess the whole power of another department, the
fundamental principles of a free constitution are
subverted. This would have been the case in the
constitution examined by him, if the king, who is
the sole executive magistrate, had possessed also
the complete legislative power, or the supreme ad-
ministration of justice; or if the entire legislative
body had possessed the supreme judiciary, or the
supreme executive authority. This, however, is not
among the vices of that constitution. The magis-
trate in whom the whole executive power resides
cannot of himself make a law, though he can put a
negative on every law; nor administer justice in
person, though he has the appointment of those
who do administer it. The judges can exercise no

The Federalist 17

executive prerogative, though they are shoots from
the executive stock; nor any legislative function,
though they may be advised with by the legislative
councils. The entire legislature can perform no
judiciary act, though by the joint act of two of its
branches the judges may be removed from their
offices, and though one of its branches is possessed
of the judicial power in the last resort. The entire
legislature, again, can exercise no executive preroga-
tive, though one of its branches constitutes the su-
preme executive magistracy, and another, on the
impeachment of a third, can try and condemn all the
subordinate officers in the executive department.

The reasons on which Montesquieu grounds his
maxim are a further demonstration of his meaning.
''When the legislative and executive powers are
united in the same person or body," says he, '' there
can be no liberty, because apprehensions may arise
lest the same monarch or senate should enact tyranni-
cal laws to execute them in a tyrannical manner."
Again: ''Were the power of judging joined with the
legislative, the life and liberty of the subject would
be exposed to arbitrary control, for the judge would
then be the legislator. Were it joined to the execu-
tive power, the judge might behave with all the vio-
lence of an oppressor.'' Some of these reasons are
more fully explained in other passages; but briefly
stated as they are here, they sufficiently establish
the meaning which we have put on this celebrated
maxim of this celebrated author.

If we look into the constitutions of the several
States, we find that, notwithstanding the emphatical

VOL. XII.— 2.

1 8 Alexander Hamilton

and, in some instances, the unqualified terms in
which this axiom has been laid down, there is not
a single instance in which the several departments
of power have been kept absolutely separate and
distinct. New Hampshire, whose constitution was
the last formed, seems to have been fully aware of
the impossibility and inexpediency of avoiding any
mixture whatever of these departments, and has
qualified the doctrine by declaring ''that the legis-
lative, executive, and judiciary powers ought to be
kept as separate from, and independent of, each
other as the nature of a free government will admit;
or as is consistent with that chain of connection that
hinds the whole fabric of the constitution in one in-
dissoluble bond of unity and amity,'' Her constitu-
tion accordingly mixes these departments in several
respects. The Senate, which is a branch of the
legislative department, is also a judicial tribunal for
the trial of impeachments. The President, who is
the head of the executive department, is the presid-
ing member also of the Senate; and, besides an
equal vote in all cases, has a casting vote in case of
a tie. The executive head is himself eventually
elective every year by the legislative department,
and his council is every year chosen by and from the
members of the same department. Several of the
officers of state are also appointed by the legislature.
And the members of the judiciary department are
appointed by the executive department.

The constitution of Massachusetts has observed
a sufficient though less pointed caution, in express-
ing this fundamental article of liberty. It declares

The Federalist 19

*' that the legislative department shall never exercise
the executive and judicial powers, or either of them;
the executive shall never exercise the legislative and
judicial powers, or either of them; the judicial shall
never exercise the legislative and executive powers,
or either of them." This declaration corresponds
precisely with the doctrine of Montesquieu, as it has
been explained, and is not in a single point violated
by the plan of the convention. It goes no farther
than to prohibit any one of the entire departments
from exercising the powers of another department.
In the very Constitution to which it is prefixed, a
partial mixture of powers has been admitted. The
executive magistrate has a qualified negative on the
legislative body, and the Senate, which is a part of
the legislature, is a court of impeachment for mem-
bers both of the executive and judiciary depart-
ments. The members of the judiciary, department,
again, are appointable by the executive department,
and removable by the same authority on the ad-
dress of the two legislative branches. Lastly, a
number of the officers of government are annually
appointed by the legislative department. As the
appointment to offices, particularly executive offices,
is in its nature an executive function, the compilers
of the Constitution have, in this last point at least,
violated the rule established by themselves.

I pass over the constitutions of Rhode Island and
Connecticut, because they were formed prior to the
Revolution, and even before the principle under
examination had become an object of political
attention.

20 Alexander Hamilton

The constitution of New York contains no declara-
tion on this subject; but appears very clearly to
have been framed with an eye to the danger of
improperly blending the different departments. It
gives, nevertheless, to the executive magistrate, a
partial control over the legislative department; and,
what is more, gives a like control to the judiciary
department; and even blends the executive and
judiciary departments in the exercise of this control.
In its council of appointment members of the legis-
lative are associated with the executive authority,
in the appointment of officers, both executive and
judiciary. And its court for the trial of impeach-
ments and correction of errors is to consist of one
branch of the legislature and the principal members
of the judiciary department.

The constitution of New Jersey has blended the
different powers of government more than any of
the preceding. The governor, who is the executive
magistrate, is appointed by the legislature; is chan-
cellor and ordinary, or surrogate of the State; is a
member of the Supreme Court of Appeals, and
president, with a casting vote, of one of the legislative
branches. The same legislative branch acts again
as executive council of the governor, and with him
constitutes the Court of Appeals. The members
of the judiciary department are appointed by the
legislative department, and removable by one branch
of it, on the impeachment of the other.

According to the constitution of Pennsylvania, the
president, who is the head of the executive depart-
ment, is annually elected by a vote in which the

The Federalist 21

legislative department predominates. In conjunc-
tion with an executive council, he appoints the mem-
bers of the judiciary department, and forms a court
of impeachment for trial of all officers, judiciary as
well as executive. The judges of the Supreme Court
and justices of the peace seem also to be removable
by the legislature; and the executive power of par-
doning in certain cases, to be referred to the same
department. The members of the executive council
are made ex- officio justices of peace throughout
the State.

In Delaware, the chief executive magistrate is
annually elected by the legislative department. The
speakers of the two legislative branches are vice-
presidents in the executive department. The ex-
ecutive chief, with six others, appointed, three by
each of the legislative branches, constitutes the Su-
preme Court of Appeals; he is joined with the
legislative department in the appointment of the
other judges. Throughout the States, it appears
that the members of the legislature may at the same
time be justices of the peace; in this State, the
members of one branch of it are ex- officio justices
of the peace ; as are also the members of the executive
council. The principal officers of the executive de-
partment are appointed by the legislative; and
one branch of the latter forms a court of impeach-
ments. All officers may be removed on address of
the legislature.

Maryland has adopted the maxim in the most un-
qualified terms; declaring that the legislative, execu-
tive, and judicial powers of government ought to be

22 Alexander Hamilton

forever separate and distinct from each other. Her
constitution, notwithstanding, makes the executive
magistrate appointable by the legislative depart-
ment; and the members of the judiciary by the
executive department.

The language of Virginia is still more pointed
on this subject. Her constitution declares, "that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments
shall be separate and distinct; so that neither exer-
cise the powers properly belonging to the other; nor
shall any person exercise the powers of more than
one of them at the same time, except that the justices
of county courts shall be eligible to either House of
Assembly. ' ' Yet we find not only this express excep-
tion, with respect to the members of the inferior
courts, but that the chief magistrate, with his execu-
tive council, are appointable by the legislature; that
two members of the latter are triennially displaced
at the pleasure of the legislature; and that all the
principal offices, both executive and judiciary, are
filled by the same department. The executive pre-
rogative of pardon, also, is in one case vested in the
legislative department.

The constitution of North Carolina, which declares
" that the legislative, executive, and suprem^e judicial
powers of government ought to be forever separate
and distinct from each other," refers, at the same
time, to the legislative department, the appointment
not only of the executive chief, but all the prin-
cipal officers within both that and the judiciary
department.

In South Carolina, the constitution makes the

The Federalist 23

executive magistracy eligible by the legislative de-
partment. It gives to the latter, also, the appoint-
ment of the members of the judiciary department,
including even justices of the peace and sheriffs;
and the appointment of officers in the executive
department, down to captains in the army and navy
of the State.

In the constitution of Georgia, where it is declared
''that the legislative, executive, and judiciary de-
partments shall be separate and distinct, so that
neither exercise the powers properly belonging to the
other, "we find that the executive department is to
be filled by appointments of the legislature ; and the
executive prerogative of pardon to be finally exer-
cised by the same authority. Even justices of the
peace are to be appointed by the legislature.

In citing these cases, in which the legislative,
executive, and judiciary departments have not been
kept totally separate and distinct, I wish not to be
regarded as an advocate for the particular organiza-
tions of the several State governments. I am fully
aware that among the many excellent principles
which they exemplify, they carry strong marks of
the haste, and still stronger of the inexperience, under
which they were framed. It is but too obvious that in
some instances the fundamental principle under con-
sideration has been violated by too great a mixture,
and even an actual consolidation, of the different
powers; and that in no instance has a competent
provision been made for maintaining in practice the
separation delineated on paper. What I have wished
to evince is, that the charge brought against the

24 Alexander Hamilton

proposed Constitution, of violating the sacred maxim
of free government, is warranted neither by the real
meaning annexed to that maxim by its author, nor
by the sense in which it has hitherto been understood
in America. This interesting subject will be re-
sumed in the ensuing paper.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, February i, 1788

THE FEDERALIST. No. XLVIII
(madison)

To the People of the State of New York:

It was shown in the last paper that the politi-
cal apothegm there examined does not require that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments
should be wholly unconnected with each other. I
shall undertake, in the next place, to show that unless
these departments be so far connected and blended
as to give to each a constitutional control over the
others, the degree of separation which the maxim
requires, as essential to a free government, can never
in practice be duly maintained.

It is agreed on all sides, that the powers properly
belonging to one of the departments ought not to be
directly and completely administered by either of the
other departments. It is equally evident, that none
of them ought to possess, directly or indirectly, an
overruling influence over the others, in the adminis-
tration of their respective powers. It will not be
denied, that power is of an encroaching nature, and
that it ought to be effectually restrained from passing

The Federalist 25

the Hmits assigned to it. After discriminating, there-
fore, in theory, the several classes of power, as they
may in their nature be legislative, executive, or
judiciary, the next and most difficult task is to pro-
vide some practical security for each, against the
invasion of the others. What this security ought to
be, is the great problem to be solved.

Will it be sufficient to mark, with precision, the
boundaries of these departments, in the constitution
of the government, and to trust to these parchment
barriers against the encroaching spirit of power?
This is the security which appears to have been
principally relied on by the compilers of most of the
American constitutions. But experience assures us,
that the efficacy of the provision has been greatly
overrated; and that some more adequate defence is
indispensably necessary for the more feeble, against
the more powerful members of the government.
The legislative department is ever3rwhere extending
the sphere of its activity, and drawing all power into
its impetuous vortex.

The founders of our republics have so much merit
for the wisdom which they have displayed, that no
task can be less pleasing than that of pointing out
the errors into which they have fallen. A respect
for truth, however, obliges us to remark, that they
seem never for a moment to have turned their eyes
from the danger to liberty from the overgrown and
all-grasping prerogative of an hereditary magistrate,
supported and fortified by an hereditary branch of
the legislative authority. They seem never to have
recollected the danger from legislative usurpations,

26 Alexander Hamilton

which, by assembling all power in the same hands,
must lead to the same tyranny as is threatened by
executive usurpations.

In a government where numerous and extensive
prerogatives are placed in the hands of an hereditary
monarch, the executive department is very justly
regarded as the source of danger, and watched with
all the jealousy which a zeal for liberty ought to
inspire. In a democracy, where a multitude of peo-
ple exercise in person the legislative functions, and
are continually exposed, by their incapacity for regu-
lar deliberation and concerted measures, to the
ambitious intrigues of their executive magistrates,
tyranny may well be apprehended, on some favorable
emergency, to start up in the same quarter. But in
a representative republic, where the executive magis-
tracy is carefully limited, both in the extent and the
duration of its power; and where the legislative
power is exercised by an assembly, which is inspired
by a supposed influence over the people, with an
intrepid confidence in its own strength; which is
sufficiently numerous to feel all the passions which
actuate a multitude, yet not so numerous as to be
incapable of pursuing the objects of its passions, by
means which reason prescribes; it is against the
enterprising ambition of this department that the
people ought to indulge all their jealousy and exhaust
all their precautions.

The legislative department derives a superiority
in our governments from other circumstances. Its
constitutional powers being at once more extensive,
and less susceptible of precise limits, it can, with the

The Federalist 27

greater facility, mask, under complicated and in-
direct measures, the encroachments which it makes
on the coordinate departments. It is not unfre-
quently a question of real nicety in legislative bodies,
whether the operation of a particular measure will,
or will not, extend beyond the legislative sphere.
On the other side, the executive power being re-
strained within a narrower compass, and being more
simple in its nature, and the judiciary being described
by landmarks still less uncertain, projects of usurpa-
tion by either of these departments would immedi-
ately betray and defeat themselves. Nor is this all:
as the legislative department alone has access to the
pockets of the people, and has in some constitutions
full discretion, and in all a prevailing influence, over
the pecuniary rewards of those who fill the other
departments, a dependence is thus created in the
latter, which gives still greater facility to encroach-
ments of the former.

I have appealed to our own experience for the
truth of what I advance on this subject. Were it
necessary to verify this experience by particular
proofs, they might be multiplied without end. I
might find a witness in every citizen who has shared
in, or been attentive to, the course of public ad-
ministrations. I might collect vouchers in abund-
ance from the records and archives of every State in
the Union. But as a more concise, and at the same
time equally satisfactory, evidence, I will refer to
the example of two States, attested by two unex-
ceptionable authorities.

The first example is that of Virginia, a State

28 Alexander Hamilton

which, as we have seen, has expressly declared in its
constitution, that the three great departments ought
not to be intermixed. The authority in support of
it is Mr. Jefferson, who, besides his other advantages
for remarking the operation of the government, was
himself the chief magistrate of it. In order to con-
vey fully the ideas with which his experience had
impressed him on this subject, it will be necessary to
quote a passage of some length from his very inter-
esting Notes on the State of Virginia, p. 195. ''All
the powers of government, legislative, executive, and
judiciary, result to the legislative body. The con-
centrating these in the same hands, is precisely the
definition of despotic government. It will be no
alleviation, that these powers will be exercised by a
plurality of hands, and not by a single one. One
hundred and seventy-three despots would surely be
as oppressive as one. Let those who doubt it, turn
their eyes on the republic of Venice. As little will
it avail us, that they are chosen by ourselves. An
elective despotism was not the government we fought
for; but one which should not only be founded on
free principles, but in which the powers of govern-
ment should be so divided and balanced among
several bodies of magistracy, as that no one could
transcend their legal limits, without being effectually
checked and restrained by the others. For this
reason, that convention which passed the ordinance
of government, laid its foundation on this basis, that
the legislative, executive, and judiciary departments
should be separate and distinct, so that no person
should exercise the powers of more than one of them

The Federalist 29

at the same time. But no barrier was provided be-
tween these several powers. The judiciary and the
executive members were left dependent on the legis-
lative for their subsistence in office, and some of
them for their continuance in it. If, therefore, the
legislature assumes executive and judiciary powers,
no opposition is likely to be made ; nor, if made, can
be effectual ; because in that case they may put their
proceedings into the form of acts of Assembly, which
will render them obligatory on the other branches.
They have accordingly, in many instances, decided
rights which should have been left to judiciary con-
troversy, and the direction of the executive, during the
whole time of their session, is becoming habitual and
familiar.''

The other State which I shall take for an example
is Pennsylvania ; and the other authority, the Coun-
cil of Censors, which assembled in the years 1783 and
1784. A part of the duty of this body, as marked out
by the constitution, was ''to inquire whether the
constitution had been preserved inviolate in every
part; and whether the legislative and executive
branches of government had performed their duty as
guardians of the people, or assumed to themselves,
or exercised, other or greater powers than they are
entitled to by the constitution.*' In the execution
of this trust, the council were necessarily led to a
comparison of both the legislative and executive pro-
ceedings, with the constitutional powers of these
departments; and from the facts enumerated, and
to the truth of most of which both sides in the
council subscribed, it appears that the constitution

30 Alexander Hamilton

had been flagrantly violated by the legislature in a
variety of important instances.

A great number of laws had been passed, violating,
without any apparent necessity, the rule requiring
that all bills of a public nature shall be previously
printed for the consideration of the people ; although
this is one of the precautions chiefly relied on by the
constitution against improper acts of the legislature.

The constitutional trial by jury had been violated,
and powers assumed which had not been delegated
by the constitution.

Executive powers had been usurped.

The salaries of the judges, which the constitution
expressly requires to be fixed, had been occasionally
varied ; and cases belonging to the judiciary depart-
ment frequently drawn within legislative cognizance
and determination.

Those who wish to see the several particulars fall-
ing under each of these heads, may consult the
journals of the council, which are in print. Some of
them, it will be found, may be imputable to peculiar
circumstances connected with the war; but the
greater part of them may be considered as the
spontaneous shoots of an ill-constituted government.

It appears, also, that the executive department had
not been innocent of frequent breaches of the con-
stitution. There are three observations, however,
which ought to be made on this head : first, a great
proportion of the instances were either immediately
produced by the necessities of the war, or recom-
mended by Congress or the commander-in-chief;
secondly, in most of the other instances, they con-

The Federalist 31

formed either to the declared or the known senti-
ments of the legislative department; thirdly ^ the
executive department of Pennsylvania is distin-
guished from that of the other States by the
number of members composing it. In this respect,
it has as much affinity to a legislative assembly as to
an executive council. And being at once exempt
from the restraint of an individual responsibility for
the acts of the body, and deriving confidence from
mutual example and joint influence, unauthorized
measures would, of course, be more freely hazarded,
than where the executive department is administered
by a single hand, or by a few hands.

The conclusion which I am warranted in drawing
from these observations is, that a mere demarcation
on parchment of the constitutional limits of the
several departments, is not a sufficient guard against
thoce encroachments which lead to a tyrannical con-
centration of all the powers of government in the
same hands. Publius.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, February 5, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. XLIX

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The author of the Notes on the State of Virginia,
quoted in the last paper, has subjoined to that
valuable work the draught of a constitution, which
had been prepared in order to be laid before a
convention expected to be called in 1783, by the

32 Alexander Hamilton

legislature, for the establishment of a constitution for
that commonwealth. The plan, like every thing from
the same pen, marks a turn of thinking, original
comprehensive, and accurate; and is the more
worthy of attention as it equally displays a fervent
attachment to republican government and an en-
lightened view of the dangerous propensities against
which it ought to be guarded. One of the precau-
tions which he proposes, and on which he appears
ultimately to rely as a palladium to the weaker
departments of power against the invasions of the
stronger, is perhaps altogether his own, and as it
immediately relates to the subject of our present
inquiry, ought not to be overlooked.

His proposition is, '* that whenever any two of the
three branches of government shall concur in opinion,
each by the voices of two thirds of their whole num-
ber, that a convention is necessary for altering the
constitution, or correcting breaches of it, a convention
shall be called for the purpose."

As the people are the only legitimate fountain of
power, and it is from them that the constitutional
charter, under which the several branches of govern-
ment hold their power, is derived, it seems strictly
consonant to the republican theory, to recur to the
same original authority, not only whenever it may
be necessary to enlarge, diminish, or new- model the
powers of the government, but also whenever any
one of the departments may commit encroachments
on the chartered authorities of the others. The
several departments being perfectly coordinate by
the terms of their common commission, none of them,

The Federalist 33

it is evident, can pretend to an exclusive or superior
right of settling the boundaries between their re-
spective powers; and how are the encroachments of
the stronger to be prevented, or the wrongs of the
weaker to be redressed, without an appeal to the
people themselves, who, as the grantors of the com-
mission, can alone declare its true meaning, and
enforce its observance?

There is certainly great force in this reasoning,
and it must be allowed to prove that a constitutional
road to the decision of the people ought to be marked
out and kept open, for certain great and extra-
ordinary occasions. But there appear to be in-
superable objections against the proposed recurrence
to the people, as a provision in all cases for keeping
the several departments of power within their con-
stitutional limits.

In the first place, the provision does not reach the
case of a combination of two of the departments
against the third. If the legislative authority, which
possesses so many means of operating on the motives
of the other departments, should be able to gain to its
interest either of the others, or even one third of its
members, the remaining department could derive
no advantage from its remedial provision. I do not
dwell, however, on this objection, because it may be
thought to be rather against the modification of the
principle, than against the principle itself.

In the next place, it may be considered as an
objection inherent in the principle, that as every
appeal to the people would cany an implication of
some defect in the government, frequent appeals

VOL. XII.

34 Alexander Hamilton

would, in a great measure, deprive the government
of that veneration which time bestows on every
thing, and without which perhaps the wisest and
freest governments would not possess the requisite
stability. If it be true that all governments rest on
opinion, it is no less true that the strength of opinion
in each individual, and its practical influence on his
conduct, depend much on the number which he sup-
poses to have entertained the same opinion. The
reason of man, like man himself, is timid and cautious
when left alone, and acquires firmness and confidence
in proportion to the number with which it is asso-
ciated. When the examples which fortify opinion
are ancient as well as numerous, they are known to
have a double effect. In a nation of philosophers^
this consideration ought to be disregarded. A
reverence for the laws would be sufficiently incul-
cated by the voice of an enlightened reason. But a
nation of philosophers is as little to be expected as
the philosophical race of kings wished for by Plato.
And in every other nation, the most rational govern-
ment will not find it a superfluous advantage to have
the prejudices of the community on its side.

The danger of disturbing the public tranquillity by
interesting too strongly the public passions, is a still
more serious objection against a frequent reference
of constitutional questions to the decision of the
whole society. Notwithstanding the success which
has attended the revisions of our established forms
of government, and which does so much honor to the
virtue and intelligence of the people of America, it
must be confessed that the experiments are of too

The Federalist 35

ticklish a nature to be unnecessarily multiplied. We
are to recollect that all the existing constitutions
were formed in the midst of a danger which repressed
the passions most unfriendly to order and concord;
of an enthusiastic confidence of the people in their
patriotic leaders, which stifled the ordinary diversity
of opinions on great national questions; of a uni-
versal ardor for new and opposite forms, produced by
a universal resentment and indignation against the
ancient government; and whilst no spirit of party
connected with the changes to be made, or the abuses
to be reformed, could mingle its leaven in the opera-
tion. The future situations in which we must expect
to be usually placed, do not present any equivalent
security against the danger which is apprehended.

But the greatest objection of all is, that the de-
cisions which would probably result from such ap-
peals would not answer the purpose of maintaining
the constitutional equilibrium of the government.
We have seen that the tendency of republican
governments is to an aggrandizement of the legisla-
tive at the expense of the other departments. The
appeals to the people, therefore, would usually be
made by the executive and judiciary departments.
But whether made by one side or the other, would
each side enjoy equal advantages on the trial? Let
us view their different situations. The members of
the executive and judiciary departments are few in
number, and can be personally known to a small part
only of the people. The latter, by the mode of their
appointment, as well as by the nature and per-
manency of it, are too far removed from the people

3^ Alexander Hamilton

to share much in their prepossessions. The former
are generally the objects of jealousy, and their ad-
ministration is always liable to be discolored and
rendered unpopular. The members of the legislative
department, on the other hand, are numerous.
They are distributed and dwell among the people
at large. Their connections of blood, of friendship,
and of acquaintance embrace a great proportion of
the most influential part of the society. The nature
of their public trust implies a personal influence
among the people, and that they are more im-
mediately the confidential guardians of the rights
and liberties of the people. With these advantages,
it can hardly be supposed that the adverse party
would have an equal chance for a favorable issue.

But the legislative party would not only be able to
plead their cause most successfully with the people.
They would probably be constituted themselves the
judges. The same influence which had gained them
an election into the legislature, would gain them a
seat in the convention. If this should not be the
case with all, it would probably be the case with
many, and pretty certainly with those leading charac-
ters, on whom every thing depends in such bodies.
The convention, in short, would be composed chiefly
of men who had been, who actually were, or who
expected to be, members of the department whose
conduct was arraigned. They would consequently
be parties to the very question to be decided by
them.

It might, however, sometimes happen, that ap-
peals would be made under circumstances less ad-

The Federalist 37

verse to the executive and judiciary departments.
The usurpations of the legislature might be so
flagrant and so sudden, as to admit of no specious
coloring. A strong party among themselves might
take side with the other branches. The executive
power might be in the hands of a peculiar favorite of
the people. In such a posture of things, the public
decision might be less swayed by prepossessions
in favor of the legislative party. But still it could
never be expected to turn on the true merits of the
question. It would inevitably be connected with
the spirit of preexisting parties, or of parties springing
out of the question itself. It would be connected
with persons of distinguished character and extensive
influence in the community. It would be pro-
nounced by the very men who had been agents in, or
opponents of, the measures to which the decision
would relate. The passions, therefore, not the
reason, of the public would sit in judgment. But it
is the reason, alone, of the public, that ought to
control and regulate the government. The passions
ought to be controlled and regulated by the govern-
ment.

We found in the last paper, that mere declarations
in the written constitution are not sufficient to re-
strain the several departments within their legal
rights. It appears in this, that occasional appeals
to the people would be neither a proper nor an
effectual provision for that purpose. How far the
provisions of a different nature contained in the plan
above quoted might be adequate, I do not examine.
Some of them are unquestionably founded on sotmd

3^ Alexander Hamilton

political principles, and all of them are framed with
singular ingenuity and precision.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, February 5, 1788
WHE FEDERALIST. No. L

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It may be contended, perhaps, that instead of
occasional appeals to the people, which are liable to
the objections urged against them, periodical appeals
are the proper and adequate means of preventing and
correcting infractions of the Constitution.

It will be attended to, that in the examination of
these expedients, I confine myself to their aptitude
for enforcing the Constitution, by keeping the several
departments of power within their due bounds, with-
out particularly considering them as provisions for
altering the Constitution itself. In the first view,
appeals to the people at fixed periods appear to be
nearly as ineligible as appeals on particular occa-
sions as they emerge. If the periods be separated by
short intervals, the measures to be reviewed and
rectified will have been of recent date, and will be
connected with all the circumstances which tend to
vitiate and pervert the result of occasional revisions.
If the periods be distant from each other, the same
remark will be applicable to all recent measures ; and
in proportion as the remoteness of the others may
favor a dispassionate review of them, this advantage
is inseparable from inconveniences which seem to

The Federalist 39

counterbalance it. In the first place, a distant pros-
pect of public censure would be a very feeble restraint
on power from those excesses to which it might be
urged by the force of present motives. Is it to be
imagined that a legislative assembly, consisting of a
hundred or two hundred members, eagerly bent on
some favorite object, and breaking through the re-
straints of the Constitution in pursuit of it, would
be arrested in their career, by considerations drawn
from a censorial revision of their conduct at the
future distance of ten, fifteen, or twenty years? In
the next place, the abuses would often have com-
pleted their mischievous effects before the remedial
provision would be applied. And in the last place,
where this might not be the case, they would be of
long standing, would have taken deep root, and
would not easily be extirpated.

The scheme of revising the constitution, in order
to correct recent breaches of it, as well as for other
purposes, has been actually tried in one of the States.
One of the objects of the Council of Censors which met
in Pennsylvania in 1783 and 1784, was, as we have
seen, to inquire, '' whether the constitution had been
violated, and whether the legislative and executive
departments had encroached on each other." This
important and novel experiment in politics merits, in
several points of view, very particular attention. In
some of them it may, perhaps, as a single experiment,
made under circumstances somewhat pectiliar, be
thought to be not absolutely conclusive. But as
applied to the case under consideration, it involves
some facts, which I venture to remark, as a complete

40 Alexander Hamilton

and satisfactory illustration of the reasoning which
I have employed.

First. It appears, from the names of the gentle-
men who composed the council, that some, at least,
of its most active and leading members had also been
active and leading characters in the parties which
preexisted in the State.

Secondly. It appears that the same active and
leading members of the council had been active and
influential members of the legislative and executive
branches, within the period to be reviewed; and even
patrons or opponents of the very measures to be thus
brought to the test of the constitution. Two of the
members had been vice-presidents of the State, and
several others members of the executive council,
within the seven preceding years. One of them had
been speaker, and a number of others distinguished
members, of the legislative assembly within the same
period.

Thirdly, Every page of their proceedings wit-
nesses the effect of all these circumstances on the
temper of their deliberations. Throughout the con-
tinuance of the council, it was split into two fixed
and violent parties. The fact is acknowledged and
lamented by themselves. Had this not been the
case, the face of their proceedings exhibits a proof
equally satisfactory. In all questions, however un-
important in themselves, or unconnected with each
other, the same names stand invariably contrasted on
the opposite columns. Every unbiased observer may
infer, without danger of mistake, and at the same
time without meaning to reflect on either party, or

The Federalist 41

any individuals of either party, that, unfortunately,
passion, not reason, must have presided over their
decisions. When men exercise their reason coolly
and freely on a variety of distinct questions, they
inevitably fall into different opinions on some of them.
When they are governed by a common passion, their
opinions, if they are so to be called, will be the same.

Fourthly. It is at least problematical, whether the
decisions of this body do not, in several instances,
misconstrue the limits prescribed for the legislative
and executive departments, instead of reducing and
limiting them within their constitutional places.

Fifthly. I have never understood that the de-
cisions of the council on constitutional questions,
whether rightly or erroneously formed, have had any
effect in varying the practice founded on legislative
constructions. It even appears, if I mistake not,
that in one instance the contemporary legislature
denied the constructions of the council, and actually
prevailed in the contest.

This censorial body, therefore, proves at the same
time, by its researches, the existence of the disease,
and by its example, the inefficacy of the remedy.

This conclusion cannot be invalidated by alleging
that the State in which the experiment was made
was at that crisis, and had been for a long time before,
violently heated and distracted by the rage of party.
Is it to be presumed, that at any future septennial
epoch the same State will be free from parties? Is it
to be presumed that any other State, at the same or
any other given period, will be exempt from them?
Such an event ought to be neither presumed nor

42 Alexander Hamilton

desired ; because an extinction of parties necessarily
implies either a universal alarm for the public safety,
or an absolute extinction of liberty.

Were the precaution taken of excluding from the
assemblies elected by the people, to revise the pre-
ceding administration of the government, all persons
who should have been concerned with the govern-
ment within the given period, the difficulties would
not be obviated. The important task would prob-
ably devolve on men, who, with inferior capacities,
would in other respects be little better qualified.
Although they might not have been personally con-
cerned in the administration, and therefore not im-
mediately agents in the measures to be examined,
they would probably have been involved in the
parties connected with these measures, and have been
elected under their auspices,

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, February 8, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LI

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

To what expedient, then, shall we finally resort, for
maintaining in practice the necessary partition of
power among the several departments, as laid down
in the Constitution? The only answer that can be
given is, that as all these exterior provisions are
found to be inadequate, the defect must be supplied,
by so contriving the interior structure of the govern-

The Federalist 43

ment as that its several constituent parts may, by
their mutual relations, be the means of keeping each
other in their proper places. Without presuming to
undertake a full development of this important idea,
I will hazard a few general observations, which may
perhaps place it in a clearer light, and enable us to
form a more correct judgment of the principles
and structure of the government planned by the
convention.

In order to lay a due foundation for that separate
and distinct exercise of the different powers of gov-
ernment, which to a certain extent is admitted on all
hands to be essential to the preservation of liberty, it
is evident that each department should have a will
of its own ; and consequently should be so constituted
that the members of each should have as little agency
as possible in the appointment of the members of the
others. Were this principle rigorously adhered to,
it would require that all the appointments for the
supreme executive, legislative, and judiciary magis-
tracies should be drawn from the same fountain of
authority, the people, through channels having no
communication whatever with one another. Per-
haps such a plan of constructing the several depart-
ments would be less difficult in practice than it may
in contemplation appear. Some difficulties, how-
ever, and some additional expense would attend the
execution of it. Some deviations, therefore, from
the principle must be admitted. In the constitution
of the judiciary department in particular, it might be
inex-oedient to insist rigorously on the principle : first,
because peculiar qualifications being essential in the

44 Alexander Hamilton

members, the primary consideration ought to be to
select that mode of choice which best secures these
qualifications; secondly, because the permanent
tenure by which the appointments are held in that
department, must soon destroy all sense of depend-
ence on the authority conferring them.

It is equally evident, that the members of each
department should be as little dependent as possible
on those of the others, for the emoluments annexed
to their offices. Were the executive magistrate, or
the judges, not independent of the legislature in this
particular, their independence in every other would
be merely nominal.

But the great security against a gradual concentra-
tion of the several powers in the same department,
consists in giving to those who administer each de-
partment the necessary constitutional means and
personal motives to resist encroachments of the
others. The provision for defence must in this, as in
all other cases, be made commensurate to the danger
of attack. Ambition must be made to counteract
ambition. The interest of the man must be con-
nected with the constitutional rights of the place.
It may be a reflection on human nature, that such
devices should be necessary to control the abuses of
government. But what is government itself, but the
greatest of all reflections on human nature? If men
were angels, no government would be necessary. If
angels were to govern men, neither external nor in-
ternal controls on government would be necessary.
In framing a government which is to be administered
by men over men, the great difficulty lies in this:

The Federalist 45

you must first enable the government to control the
governed; and in the next place oblige it to control
itself. A dependence on the people is, no doubt, the
primary control on the government; but experience
has taught mankind the necessity of auxiliary
precautions.

This policy of supplying, by opposite and rival
interests, the defect of better motives, might be
traced through the whole system of human affairs,
private as well as public. We see it particularly
displayed in all the subordinate distributions of
power, where the constant aim is to divide and
arrange the several offices in such a manner as that
each may be a check on the other — that the private
interest of every individual may be a sentinel over
the public rights. These inventions of prudence
cannot be less requisite in the distribution of the
supreme powers of the State.

But it is not possible to give to each department
an equal power of self-defence. In republican
government, the legislative authority necessarily
predominates. The remedy for this inconveniency
is to divide the legislature into different branches;
and to render them, by different modes of election
and different principles of action, as little connected
with each other as the nature of their common func-
tions and their common dependence on the society
will admit. It may even be necessary to guard
against dangerous encroachments by still further pre-
cautions. As the weight of the legislative authority
requires that it should be thus divided, the weakness
of the executive may require, on the other hand, that

46 Alexander Hamilton

it should be fortified. An absolute negative on the
legislature appears, at first view, to be the natural
defence with which the executive magistrate should
be armed. But perhaps it would be neither alto-
gether safe nor alone sufficient. On ordinary occa-
sions it might not be exerted with the requisite
firmness, and on extraordinary occasions it might
be perfidiously abused. May not this defect of an
absolute negative be supplied by some qualified
connection between this weaker department and the
weaker branch of the stronger department, by which
the latter may be led to support the constitutional
rights of the former, without being too much de-
tached from the rights of its own department?

If the principles on which these observations are
founded be just, as I persuade myself they are, and
they be applied as a criterion to the several State
constitutions, and to the federal Constitution, it will
be found that if the latter does not perfectly corre-
spond with them, the former are infinitely less able
to bear such a test.

There are, moreover, two considerations particu-
larly applicable to the federal system of America,
which place that system in a very interesting point
of view.

First. In a single republic, all the power sur-
rendered by the people, is submitted to the admini-
stration of a single government ; and the usurpations
are guarded against by a division of the government
into distinct and separate departments. In the
compound republic of America, the power surrend-
ered by the people is first divided between two

The Federalist 47

distinct governments, and then the portion allotted
to each subdivided among distinct and separate
departments. Hence a double security arises to the
rights of the people. The different governments
will control each other, at the same time that each
will be controlled by itself.

Second. It is of great importance in a republic not
only to guard the society against the oppression of
its rulers, but to guard one part of the society against
the injustice of the other part. Different interests
necessarily exist in different classes of citizens. If a
majority be united by a common interest, the rights
of the minority will be insecure. There are but two
methods of providing against this evil: the one by
creating a will in the community independent of the
majority — that is, of the society itself; the other, by
comprehending in the society so many separate de-
scriptions of citizens as will render an unjust com-
bination of a majority of the whole very improbable,
if not impracticable. The first method prevails in
all governments possessing an hereditary or self-
appointed authority. This, at best, is but a pre-
carious security ; because a power independent of the
society may as well espouse the unjust views of the
major, as the rightful interests of the minor party,
and may possibly be turned against both parties.
The second method will be exemplified in the federal
republic of the United States. Whilst all authority
in it will be derived from and dependent on the
society, the society itself will be broken into so many
parts, interests, and classes of citizens, that the rights
of individuals, or of the minority, will be in little

48 Alexander Hamilton

danger from interested combinations of the majority.
In a free government the security for civil rights
must be the same as that for religious rights. It
consists in the one case in the multiplicity of interests,
and in the other in the multiplicity of sects. The
degree of security in both cases will depend on the
number of interests and sects ; and this may be pre-
sumed to depend on the extent of country and num-
ber of people comprehended under the same govern-
ment. This view of the subject must particularly
recommend a proper federal system to all the sincere
and considerate friends of republican government,
since it shows that in exact proportion as the territory
of the Union may be formed into more circumscribed
Confederacies, or States, oppressive combinations of
a majority will be facilitated; the best security,
under the republican forms, for the rights of every
class of citizens, will be diminished; and conse-
quently the stability and independence of some mem-
ber of the government, the only other security, must
be proportionately increased. Justice is the end of
government. It is the end of civil society. It ever
has been and ever will be pursued until it be obtained,
or until liberty be lost in the pursuit. In a society
under the forms of which the stronger faction can
readily unite and oppress the weaker, anarchy may
as truly be said to reign as in a state of nature, where
the weaker individual is not secured against the
violence of the stronger; and as, in the latter state,
even the stronger individuals are prompted, by the
uncertainty of their condition, to submit to a govern-
ment which may protect the weak as well as them-

The Federalist 49

selves; so, in the former state, will the more powerful
factions or parties be gradually induced, by a like
motive, to wish for a government which will protect
all parties, the weaker as well as the more powerful.
It can be little doubted that if the State of Rhode
Island was separated from the Confederacy and left
to itself, the insecurity of rights under the popular
form of government within such narrow limits would
be displayed by such reiterated oppressions of fac-
tious majorities that some power altogether inde-
pendent of the people would soon be called for by the
voice of the very factions whose misrule had proved
the necessity of it. In the extended republic of the
United States, and among the great variety of in-
terests, parties, and sects which it embraces, a
coalition of a majority of the whole society could
seldom take place on any other principles than those
of justice and the general good; whilst there being
thus less danger to a minor from the will of a major
party, there must be less pretext, also, to provide for
the security of the former, by introducing into the
government a will not dependent on the latter, or, in
other words, a will independent of the society itself.
It is no less certain than it is important, notwith-
standing the contrary opinions which have been en-
tertained, that the larger the society, provided it lie
within a practical sphere, the more duly capable it
will be of self-government. And happily for the re-
publican cause, the practicable sphere may be carried
to a very great extent, by a judicious modification
and mixture of the federal principle.

PUBLIUS.

VOL. XII. — 4.

50 Alexander Hamilton

From the New York Packet, Friday, February 8, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LII

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

From the more general inquiries pursued in the
four last papers, I pass on to a more particular
examination of the several parts of the government.
I shall begin with the House of Representatives.

The first view to be taken of this part of the
government relates to the qualifications of the
electors and the elected.

Those of the former are to be the same with those
of the electors of the most numerous branch of the
State legislatures. The definition of the right of
suffrage is very justly regarded as a fundamental
article of republican government. It was incumbent
on the convention, therefore, to define and establish
this right in the Constitution. To have left it open
for the occasional regulation of the Congress, would
have been improper for the reason just mentioned.
To have submitted it to the legislative discretion of
the States, would have been improper for the same
reason; and for the additional reason that it would
have rendered too dependent on the State govern-
ments that branch of the federal government which
ought to be dependent on the people alone. To have
reduced the different qualifications in the different
States to one uniform rule, would probably have
been as dissatisfactory to some of the States as it
would have been difficult to the convention. The
provision made by the convention appears, therefore,

The Federalist 51

to be the best that lay within their option. It must
be satisfactory to every State, because it is conform-
able to the standard already established, or which
may be established, by the State itself. It will be
safe to the United States, because, being fixed by the
State constitutions, it is not alterable by the State
governments, and it cannot be feared that the people
of the States will alter this part of their constitutions
in such a manner as to abridge the rights secured to
them by the federal Constitution.

The qualifications of the elected, being less care-
fully and properly defined by the State constitutions,
and being at the same time more susceptible of uni-
formity, have been very properly considered and
regulated by the convention. A representative of
the United States must be of the age of twenty-five
years ; must have been seven years a citizen of the
United States; must, at the time of his election, be
an inhabitant of the State he is to represent; and,
during the time of his service, must be in no office
under the United States. Under these reasonable
limitations, the door of this part of the federal gov-
ernment is open to merit of every description
whether native or adoptive, whether young or old,
and without regard to poverty or wealth, or to any
particular profession of religious faith.

The term for which the representatives are to be
elected falls under a second view which may be taken
of this branch. In order to decide on the propriety
of this article, two questions must be considered:
first, whether biennial elections will, in this case, be
safe; secondly, whether they be necessary or useful.

52 Alexander Hamilton

First. As it is essential to liberty that the gov-
ernment in general shotild have a common interest
with the people, so it is particularly essential that
the branch of it under consideration should have
an immediate dependence on, and an intimate
sympathy with, the people. Frequent elections are
imquestionably the only policy by which this depend-
ence and sympathy can be effectually secured. But
what particular degree of frequency may be abso-
lutely necessary for the purpose, does not appear to
be susceptible of any precise calculation, and must
depend on a variety of circumstances with which it
may be connected. Let us consult experience, the
guide that ought always to be followed whenever it
can be found.

The scheme of representation, as a substitute for
a meeting of the citizens in person, being at most
but very imperfectly known to ancient polity, it is in
more modem times only that we are to expect in-
structive examples. And even here, in order to
avoid a research too vague and diffusive, it will be
proper to confine ourselves to the few examples
which are best known, and which bear the greatest
analogy to our particular case. The first to which
this character ought to be applied, is the House of
Commons in Great Britain. The history of this
branch of the English Constitution, anterior to the
date of Magna Charta, is too obscure to yield in-
struction. The very existence of it has been made a
question among political antiquaries. The earliest
records of subsequent date prove that parliaments
were to sit only every year ; not that they were to be

The Federalist 53

elected every year. And even these annual sessions
were left so much at the discretion of the monarch,
that, under various pretexts, very long and danger-
ous intermissions were often contrived by royal am-
bition. To remedy this grievance, it was provided
by a statute in the reign of Charles II., that the
intermissions should not be protracted beyond a
period of three years. On the accession of William
III., when a revolution took place in the govern-
ment, the subject was still more seriously resumed,
and it was declared to be among the fundamental
rights of the people, that parliaments ought to be
held frequently. By another statute, which passed
a few years later in the same reign, the term ''fre-
quently," which had alluded to the triennial period
settled in the time of Charles II., is reduced to a
precise meaning, it being expressly enacted that a
new parliament shall be called within three years
after the termination of the former. The last
change, from three to seven years, is well known to
have been introduced pretty early in the present
century, under an alarm for the Hanoverian succes-
sion. From these facts it appears that the greatest
frequency of elections which has been deemed neces-
sary in that kingdom, for binding the representatives
to their constituents, does iiot exceed a triennial
return of them. And if we may argue from the
degree of liberty retained even under septennial
elections, and all the other vicious ingredients
in the parliamentary constitution, we cannot doubt
that a reduction of the period from seven to
three years, with the other necessary reforms, would

54 Alexander Hamilton

so far extend the influence of the people over
their representatives as to satisfy us that bi-
ennial elections, under the federal system, cannot
possibly be dangerous to the requisite dependence
of the House of Representatives on their constitu-
ents.

Elections in Ireland, till of late, were regulated
entirely by the discretion of the crown, and were
seldom repeated, except on the accession of a new
prince, or some other contingent event. The parlia-
ment which commenced with George II. was con-
tinued throughout his whole reign, a period of about
thirty-five years. The only dependence of the re-
presentatives on the people consisted in the right of
the latter to supply occasional vacancies, by the
election of new members, and in the chance of some
event which might produce a general new election.
The ability also of the Irish parliament to maintain
the rights of their constituents, so far as the disposi-
tion might exist, was extremely shackled by the
control of the crown over the subjects of their delib-
eration. Of late, these shackles, if I mistake not,
have been broken ; and octennial parliaments have
besides been established. What effect may be pro-
duced by this partial reform, must be left to further
experience. The example of Ireland, from this view
of it, can throw but little light on the subject. As
far as we can draw any conclusion from it, it must
be that if the people of that country have been able
under all these disadvantages to retain any liberty
whatever, the advantage of biennial elections would
secure to them every degree of liberty, which might

The Federalist 55

depend on a due connection between their represen-
tatives and themselves.

Let us bring our inquiries nearer home. The ex-
ample of these States, when British colonies, claims
particular attention, at the same time that it is so
well known as to require little to be said on it. The
principle of representation, in one branch of the legis-
lature at least, was established in all of them. But
the periods of election were different. They varied
from one to seven years. Have we any reason to
infer, from the spirit and conduct of the representa-
tives of the people, prior to the Revolution, that
biennial elections would have been dangerous to the
public liberties? The spirit which everywhere dis-
played itself at the commencement of the struggle,
and which vanquished the obstacles to independence,
is the best of proofs that a sufficient portion of liberty
had been everywhere enjoyed to inspire both a sense
of its worth and a zeal for its proper enlargement.
This remark holds good, as well with regard to the
then colonies whose elections were least frequent, as
to those whose elections were most frequent. Vir-
ginia was the colony which stood first in resisting
the parliamentary usurpations of Great Britain;
it was the first also in espousing, by public act,
the resolution of independence. In Virginia, never-
theless, if I have not been misinformed, elec-
tions under the former government were septennial.
This particular example is brought into view, not
as a proof of any peculiar merit, for the priority
in those instances was probably accidental; and
still less of any advantage in septennial elections,

56 Alexander Hamilton

for when compared with a greater frequency they
are inadmissible ; but merely as a proof, and I
conceive it to be a very substantial proof, that
the liberties of the people can be in no danger from
biennial elections.

The conclusion resulting from these examples will
be not a little strengthened by recollecting three
circumstances. The first is, that the federal legis-
lature will possess a part only of that supreme legis-
lative authority which is vested completely in the
British Parliament; and which, with a few excep-
tions, was exercised by the colonial assemblies and
the Irish legislature. It is a received and well-
founded maxim, that where no other circumstances
affect the case, the greater the power is, the shorter
ought to be its duration; and, conversely, the
smaller the power, the more safely may its duration
be protracted. In the second place, it has, on an-
other occasion, been shown that the federal legisla-
ture will not only be restrained by its dependence on
the people, as other legislative bodies are, but that
it will be, moreover, watched and controlled by the
several collateral legislatiires, which other legislative
bodies are not. And in the third place, no com-
parison can be made between the means that will be
possessed by the more permanent branches of the
federal government for seducing, if they should be
disposed to seduce, the House of Representatives
from their duty to the people, and the means of in-
fluence over the popular branch possessed by the
other branches of the government above cited. With
less power, therefore, to abuse, the federal repre-

The Federalist 57

sentatives can be less tempted on one side, and will
be doubly watched on the other.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday ^ February 12, 178S
THE FEDERALIST. No. LIII

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

I shall here, perhaps, be reminded of a current
observation, ''that where annual elections end,
tyranny begins." If it be true, as has often been
remarked, that sayings which become proverbial are
generally founded in reason, it is not less true, that
when once established, they are often applied to
cases to which the reason of them does not extend.
I need not look for a proof beyond the case before us.
What is the reason on which this proverbial observa-
tion is founded? No man will subject himself to the
ridicule of pretending that any natural connection
subsists between the sun or the seasons, and the
period within v/hich human virtue can bear the
temptations of power. Happily for mankind, lib-
erty is not, in this respect, confined to any single
point of time ; but lies within extremes, which afford
sufficient latitude for all the variations which may
be required by the various situations and circum-
stances of civil society. The election of magistrates
might be, if it were found expedient, as in some
instances it actually has been, daily, weekly, or
monthly, as well as annual; and if circumstances

58 Alexander Hamilton

may require a deviation from the rule on one side,
why not also on the other side? Turning our atten-
tion to the periods established among ourselves, for
the election of the most numerous branches of the
State legislatures, we find them by no means coin-
ciding any more in this instance, than in the elections
of other civil magistrates. In Connecticut and
Rhode Island, the periods are half-yearly. In the
other States, South Carolina excepted, they are an-
nual. In South Carolina, they are biennial — as is
proposed in the federal government. Here is a
difference, as four to one, between the longest and
shortest periods; and yet it would be not easy to
show, that Connecticut or Rhode Island is better
governed, or enjoys a greater share of rational lib-
erty than South Carolina; or that either the one or
the other of these States is distinguished in these
respects, and by these causes, from the States whose
elections are different from both.

In searching for the grounds of this doctrine, I can
discover but one, and that is wholly inapplicable to
our case. The important distinction so well under-
stood in America, between a Constitution established
by the people and unalterable by the government,
and a law established by the government and alter-
able by the government, seems to have been little
understood and less observed in any other country.
Wherever the supreme power of legislation has re-
sided, has been supposed to reside also a full power
to change the form of the government. Even in
Great Britain, where the principles of political and
civil liberty have been most discussed, and where we

The Federalist 59

hear most of the rights of the Constitution, it is main-
tained that the authority of the ParHament is trans-
cendent and uncontrollable, as well with regard to
the Constitution, as the ordinary objects of legisla-
tive provision. They have accordingly, in several
instances, actually changed, by legislative acts, some
of the most fundamental articles of the government.
They have in particular, on several occasions, changed
the period of election; and, on the last occasion, not
only introduced septennial in place of triennial elec-
tions, but by the same act, continued themselves in
place four years beyond the term for which they were
elected by the people. An attention to these dan-
gerous practices has produced a very natural alarm
in the votaries of free government, of which fre-
quency of elections is the comer-stone; and has led
them to seek for some security to liberty, against the
danger to which it is exposed. Where no Constitu-
tion, paramount to the government, either existed
or could be obtained, no constitutional security,
similar to that established in the United States, was
to be attempted. Some other security, therefore,
was to be sought for ; and what better security would
the case admit, than that of selecting and appealing
to some simple and familiar portion of time, as a
standard for measuring the danger of innovations,
for fixing the national sentiment, and for uniting the
patriotic exertions? The most simple and familiar
portion of time, applicable to the subject, was that
of a year; and hence the doctrine has been incul-
cated by a laudable zeal, to erect some barrier against
the gradual innovations of an unlimited govern-

6o Alexander Hamilton

ment, that the advance towards tyranny was to be
calculated by the distance of departure from the
fixed point of annual elections. But what necessity
can there be of applying this expedient to a govern-
ment limited, as the federal government will be, by
the authority of a paramount Constitution? Or
who will pretend that the liberties of the people of
America will not be more secure under biennial
elections, unalterably fixed by such a Constitution,
than those of any other nation would be, where elec-
tions were annual, or even more frequent, but sub-
ject to alterations by the ordinary power of the
government ?

The second question stated is, whether biennial
elections be necessary or useful. The propriety of
answering this question in the affirmative will ap-
pear from several very obvious considerations.

No man can be a competent legislator who does
not add to an upright intention and a sound judg-
ment a certain degree of knowledge of the subjects
on which he is to legislate. A part of this know-
ledge may be acquired by means of information
which lie within the compass of men in private as
well as public stations. Another part can only be
attained, or at least thoroughly attained, by actual
^ experience in the station which requires the use of
it. The period of service, ought, therefore, in all
such cases, to bear some proportion to the extent
of practical knowledge requisite to the due perform-
ance of the service. The period of legislative ser-
vice established in most of the States for the more
numerous branch is, as we have seen, one year. The

The Federalist 6i

question then may be put into this simple form:
does the period of two years bear no greater propor-
tion to the knowledge requisite for federal legislation
than one year does to the knowledge requisite for
State legislation? The very statement of the ques-
tion, in this form, suggests the answer that ought to
be given to it.

In a single State, the requisite knowledge relates
to the existing laws, which are uniform throughout
the State, and with which all the citizens are more
or less conversant; and to the general affairs of the
State, which lie within a small compass, are not very
diversified, and occupy much of the attention and
conversation of every class of people. The great
theatre of the United States presents a very different
scene. The laws are so far from being uniform, that
they vary in every State; whilst the public affairs
of the Union are spread throughout a very extensive
region, and are extremely diversified by the local
affairs connected with them, and can with difficulty
be correctly learnt in any other place than in the
central councils, to which a knowledge of them will
be brought by the representatives of every part of
the empire. Yet some knowledge of the affairs, and
even of the laws, of all the States, ought to be pos-
sessed by the members from each of the States.
How can foreign trade be properly regulated by
uniform laws, without some acquaintance with the
commerce, the ports, the usages, and the regulations
of the different States? How can the trade be-
tween the different States be duly regulated, without
some knowledge of their relative situations in these

62 Alexander Hamilton

and other respects ? How can taxes be judiciously
imposed and effectually collected, if they be not ac-
commodated to the different laws and local circum-
stances relating to these objects in the different
States? How can uniform regulations for the mi-
litia be duly provided, without a similar knowledge
of many internal circumstances by which the States
are distinguished from each other? These are the
principal objects of federal legislation, and suggest
most forcibly the extensive information which the
representatives ought to acquire. The other in-
terior objects will require a proportional degree of
information with regard to them.

It is true that all these difficulties will, by degrees,
be very much diminished. The most laborious task
will be the proper inauguration of the government
and the primeval formation of a federal code. Im-
provements on the first draughts will every year be-
come both easier and fewer. Past transactions of
the government will be a ready and accurate source
of information to new members. The affairs of the
Union will become more and more objects of curiosity
and conversation among the citizens at large. And
the increased intercourse among those of different
States will contribute not a little to diffuse a mutual
knowledge of their affairs, as this again will contri-
bute to a general assimilation of their manners and
laws But with all these abatements, the business
of federal legislation must continue so far to exceed,
both in novelty and difficulty, the legislative busi-
ness of a single State, as to justify the longer period
of service assigned to those who are to transact it.

The Federalist 63

A branch of knowledge which belongs to the ac-
quirements of a federal representative, and which
has not been mentioned, is that of foreign affairs.
In regulating our own commerce, he ought to be
not only acquainted with the treaties between the
United States and other nations, but also with the
commercial policy and laws of other nations. He
ought not to be altogether ignorant of the law of
nations; for that, as far as it is a proper object
of municipal legislation, is submitted to the federal
government. And although the House of Repre-
sentatives is not immediately to participate in
foreign negotiations and arrangements, yet from the
necessary connection between the several branches
of public affairs, those particular branches will fre-
quently deserve attention in the ordinary course of
legislation, and will sometimes demand particular
legislative sanction and cooperation. Some portion
of this knowledge may, no doubt, be acquired in a
man's closet; but some of it also can only be derived
from the public sources of information ; and all of it
will be acquired to best effect by a practical atten-
tion to the subject during the period of actual ser-
vice in the legislature.

There are other considerations, of less importance,
perhaps, but which are not unworthy of notice. The
distance which many of the representatives will be
obliged to travel, and the arrangements rendered
necessary by that circumstance, might be much
more serious objections with fit men to this service,
if limited to a single year, than if extended to two
years. No argument can be drawn on this subject,

64 Alexander Hamilton

from the case of the delegates to the existing Con-
gress. They are elected annually, it is true; but
their reelection is considered by the legislative as-
semblies almost as a matter of course. The election
of the representatives by the people would not be
governed by the same principle.

A few of the members, as happens in all such as-
semblies, will possess superior talents; will, by fre-
quent reelections, become members of long standing,
will be thoroughly masters of the public business,
and perhaps not unwilling to avail themselves of
those advantages. The greater the proportion of
new members, and the less the information of the
bulk of the members, the more apt will they be to
fall into the snares that may be laid for them. This
remark is no less applicable to the relation which will
subsist between the House of Representatives and
the Senate.

It is an inconvenience mingled with the advan-
tages of our frequent elections, even in single States,
where they are large, and hold but one legislative
session in a year, that spurious elections cannot be
investigated and annulled in time for the decision
to have its due effect. If a return can be obtained,
no matter by what unlawful means, the irregiilar
member, who takes his seat of course, is sure of hold-
ing it a sufficient time to answer his purposes. Hence,
a very pernicious encouragement is given to the use
of unlawful means, for obtaining irregular returns.
Were elections for the federal legislature to be an-
nual, this practice might become a very serious
abuse, particularly in the more distant States. Each

The Federalist 65

house is, as it necessarily must be, the judge of the
elections, qualifications, and returns of its members;
and whatever improvements may be suggested by
experience, for simplifying and accelerating the pro-
cess in disputed cases, so great a portion of a year
would unavoidably elapse, before an illegitimate
member could be dispossessed of his seat, that the
prospect of such an event would be little check to
unfair and illicit means of obtaining a seat.

All these considerations taken together warrant
us in affirming, that biennial elections will be as use-
ful to the affairs of the public, as we have seen that
they will be safe to the liberty of the people.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, February 12, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LIV

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The next view which I shall take of the House of
Representatives relates to the appointment of its
members to the several States, which is to be deter-
mined by the same rule with that of direct taxes.

It is not contended that the number of people in
each State ought not to be the standard for regulat-
ing the proportion of those who are to represent the
people of each State. The establishment of the
same rule for the appointment of taxes will probably
be as little contested; though the rule itself, in this
case, is by no means founded on the same principle.

VOL. Xll.— 5.

66 Alexander Hamilton

In the former case, the rule is understood to refer to
the personal rights of the people, with which it has a
natural and universal connection. In the latter, it
has reference to the proportion of wealth, of which
it is in no case a precise measure, and in ordinary
cases a very unfit one. But notwithstanding the
imperfection of the rule as applied to the relative
wealth and contributions of the States, it is evi-
dently the least objectionable among the practicable
rules, and had too recently obtained the general
sanction of America, not to have found a ready pre-
ference with the convention.

All this is admitted, it will perhaps be said; but
does it follow, from an admission of numbers for the
measure of representation, or of slaves combined
with free citizens as a ratio of taxation, that slaves
ought to be included in the numerical rule of repre-
sentation? Slaves are considered as property, not
as persons. They ought therefore to be compre-
hended in estimates of taxation which are founded
on property, and to be excluded from representation
which is regulated by a census of persons. This is
the objection, as I understand it, stated in its full
force. I shall be equally candid in stating the
reasoning which may be offered on the opposite
side.

*' We subscribe to the doctrine,'' might one of our
Southern brethren observe, " that representation re-
lates more immediately to persons, and taxation
more immediately to property, and we join in the
application of this distinction to the case of our
slaves. But we must deny the fact, that slaves are

The Federalist 67

considered merely as property, and in no respect
whatever as persons. The true state of the case is,
that they partake of both these qualities : being con-
sidered by our laws, in some respects, as persons,
and in other respects as property. In being com-
pelled to labor, not for himself, but for a master; in
being vendible by one master to another master;
and in being subject at all times to be restrained in
his liberty and chastised in his body, by the capricious
will of another, — the slave may appear to be de-
graded from the human rank, and classed with
those irrational animals which fall under the legal
denomination of property. In being protected, on
the other hand, in his life and in his limbs, against
the violence of all others, even the master of his
labor and his liberty; and in being punishable him-
self for all violence committed against others, — the
slave is no less evidently regarded by the law as a
member of the society, not as a part of the irrational
creation ; as a moral person, not as a mere article of
property. The federal Constitution, therefore, de-
cides with great propriety on the case of our slaves,
when it views them in the mixed character of per-
sons and of property. This is in fact their true
character. It is the character bestowed on them by
the laws under which they Hve; and it will not be
denied, that these are the proper criterion; because
it is only under the pretext that the laws have
transformed the negroes into subjects of property,
that a place is disputed them in the computation
of numbers; and it is admitted, that if the laws
were to restore the rights which have been taken

68 Alexander Hamilton

away, the negroes could no longer be refused an
equal share of representation with the other in-
habitants.

''This question may be placed in another light.
It is agreed on all sides, that numbers are the best
scale of wealth and taxation, as they are the only
proper scale of representation. Would the conven-
tion have been impartial or consistent, if they had re-
jected the slaves from the list of inhabitants, when
the shares of representation were to be calculated,
and inserted them on the lists when the tariff of
contributions was to be adjusted ? Could it be reason-
ably expected, that the Southern States would con-
cur in a system, which considered their slaves in
some degree as men, when burdens were to be im-
posed, but refused to consider them in the same
light, when advantages were to be conferred? Might
not some surprise also be expressed, that those who
reproach the Southern States with the barbarous
policy of considering as property a part of their
human brethren, should themselves contend, that
the government to which all the States are to be
parties, ought to consider this unfortunate race more
completely in the unnatural light of property, than
the very laws of which they complain?

** It may be replied, perhaps, that slaves are not
included in the estimate of representatives in any
of the States possessing them. They neither vote
themselves nor increase the votes of their masters.
Upon what principle, then, ought they to be taken
into the federal estimate of representation? In re-
jecting them altogether, the Constitution would, in

The Federalist 69

this respect, have followed the very laws which have
been appealed to as the proper guide.

'' This objection is repelled by a single observation.
It is a fundamental principle of the proposed Con-
stitution, that as the aggregate number of repre-
sentatives allotted to the several States is to be
determined by a federal rule, founded on the aggre-
gate number of inhabitants, so the right of choosing
this allotted number in each State is to be exercised
by such part of the inhabitants as the State itself may
designate. The qualifications on which the right of
suffrage depend are not, perhaps, the same in any
two States. In some of the States the difference is
very material. In every State, a certain proportion
of inhabitants are deprived of this right by the con-
stitution of the State, who will be included in the
consus by which the federal Constitution apportions
the representatives. In this point of view the
Southern States might retort the complaint, by in-
sisting that the principle laid down by the convention
required that no regard should be had to the policy of
particular States towards their own inhabitants ; and
consequently, that the slaves, as inhabitants, should
have been admitted into the census according to their
full number, in like manner with other inhabitants,
who, by the policy of other States, are not admitted
to all the rights of citizens. A rigorous adherence,
however, to this principle, is waived by those who
would be gainers by it. All that they ask is that
equal moderation be shown on the other side. Let
the case of the slaves be considered, as it is in truth,
a peculiar one. Let the compromising expedient of

70 Alexander Hamilton

the Constitution be mutually adopted, which regards
them as inhabitants, but as debased by servitude
below the equal level of free inhabitants; which
regards the slave as divested of two fifths of the
man.

''After all, may not another ground be taken on
which this article of the Constitution will admit of
a still more ready defence? We have hitherto pro-
ceeded on the idea that representation related to
persons only, and not at all to property. But is it
a just idea? Government is instituted no less for
protection of the property, than of the persons, of
individuals. The one as well as the other therefore,
may be considered as represented by those who are
charged with the government. Upon this principle
it is, that in several of the States, and particularly
in the State of New York, one branch of the govern-
ment is intended more especially to be the guardian
of property, and is accordingly elected by that part of
the society which is most interested in this object
of government. In the federal Constitution, this
policy does not prevail. The rights of property are
committed into the same hands with the personal
rights. Some attention ought, therefore, to be paid
to property in the choice of those hands.

*' For another reason, the votes allowed in the
federal legislature to the people of each State, ought
to bear some proportion to the comparative wealth
of the States. States have not, like individuals, an
influence over each other, arising from superior
advantages of fortune. If the law allows an opulent
citizen but a single vote in the choice of his repre-

The Federalist 71

sentative, the respect and consequence which he
derives from his fortunate situation very frequently
guide the votes of others to the objects of his choice ;
and through this imperceptible channel, the rights of
property are conveyed into the public representation.
A State possesses no such influence over other States.
It is not probable that the richest State in the Con-
federacy will ever influence the choice of a single
representative in any other State. Nor will the
representatives of the larger and richer States
possess any other advantage in the federal legislature,
over the representatives of other States, than what
may result from their superior number alone. As
far, therefore, as their superior wealth and weight
may justly entitle them to any advantage, it ought
to be secured to them by a superior share of repre-
sentation. The new Constitution is, in this respect,
materially different from the existing Confederation,
as well as from that of the United Netherlands, and
other similar confederacies. In each of the latter,
the efficacy of the federal resolutions depends on the
subsequent and voluntary resolutions of the states
composing the union. Hence the states, though
possessing an equal vote in the public councils, have
an unequal influence, corresponding with the unequal
importance of these subsequent and voluntary reso-
lutions. Under the proposed Constitution, the
federal acts will take effect without the necessary
intervention of the individual States. They will
depend merely on the majority of votes in the federal
legislature, and consequently each vote, whether
proceeding from a larger or smaller State, or a State

72 Alexander Hamilton

more or less wealthy or powerful, will have an equal
weight and efficacy ; in the same manner as the votes
individually given in a State legislature, by the
representatives of unequal counties or other districts,
have each a precise equality of value and effect ; or if
there be any difference in the case, it proceeds from
the difference in the personal character of the indi-
vidual representative, rather than from any regard
to the extent of the district from which he comes."

Such is the reasoning which an advocate for the
Southern interests might employ on this subject ; and
although it may appear to be a little strained in some
points, yet, on the whole, I must confess that it fully
reconciles me to the scale of representation which the
convention have established.

In one respect, the establishment of a common
measure for representation and taxation will have a
very salutary effect. As the accuracy of the census
to be obtained by the Congress will necessarily de-
pend, in a considerable degree, on the disposition, if
not on the cooperation, of the States, it is of great
importance that the States should feel as little bias
as possible, to swell or to reduce the amount of their
numbers. Were their share of representation alone
to be governed by this rule, they would have an
interest in exaggerating their inhabitants. Were the
rule to decide their share of taxation alone, a contrary
temptation would prevail. By extending the rule to
both objects, the States will have opposite interests,
which will control and balance each other, and pro-
duce the requisite impartiality.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist "]2i

From the New York Packet, Friday, February 15, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LV

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The number of which the House of Representatives
is to consist, forms another and a very interesting
point of view, under which this branch of the federal
legislature may be contemplated. Scarce any arti-
cle, indeed, in the whole Constitution seems to be
rendered more worthy of attention, by the weight of
character and the apparent force of argument with
which it has been assailed. The charges exhibited
against it are, first, that so small a number of repre-
sentatives will be an unsafe depositary of the public
interests; secondly, that they will not possess a
proper knowledge of the local circumstances of their
numerous constituents; thirdly, that they will be
taken from that class of citizens which will sym-
pathize least with the feelings of the mass of the
people, and be most likely to aim at a permanent ele-
vation of the few on the depression of the many;
fourthly, that defective as the number will be in the
first instance, it will be more and more dispropor-
tionate, by the increase of the people, and the
obstacles which will prevent a correspondent increase
of the representatives.

In general it may be remarked on this subject, that
no political problem is less susceptible of a precise
solution than that which relates to the number most
convenient for a representative legislature; nor is
there any point on which the policy of the several

74 Alexander Hamilton

States is more at variance, whether we compare their
legislative assemblies directly with each other, or
consider the proportions which they respectively bear
to the number of their constituents. Passing over
the difference between the smallest and largest States,
as Delaware, whose most numerous branch consists
of twenty-one representatives, and Massachusetts,
where it amounts to between three and four hundred,
a very considerable difference is observable among
States nearly equal in population. The number of
representatives in Pennsylvania is not more than one
fifth of that in the State last mentioned. New York,
whose population is to that of South Carolina as six
to five, has little more than one third of the number
of representatives. As great a disparity prevails be-
tween the States of Georgia and Delaware or Rhode
Island. In Pennsylvania, the representatives do not
bear a greater proportion to their constituents than of
one for every four or five thousand. In Rhode Isl-
and, they bear a proportion of at least one for every
thousand. And according to the constitution of
Georgia, the proportion may be carried to one to
every ten electors ; and must unavoidably far exceed
the proportion in any of the other States.

Another general remark to be made is, that the
ratio between the representatives and the people
ought not to be the same where the latter are very
numerous as where they are very few. Were the
representatives in Virginia to be regulated by the
standard in Rhode Island, they would, at this time,
amount to between four and five hundred; and
twenty or thirty years hence, to a thousand. On the

The Federalist 75

other hand, the ratio of Pennsylvania, if applied to
the State of Delaware, would reduce the representa-
tive assembly of the latter to seven or eight members.
Nothing can be more fallacious than to found our
political calculations on arithmetical principles.
Sixty or seventy men may be more properly trusted
with a given degree of power than six or seven. But
it does not follow that six or seven hundred would
be proportionably a better depositary. And if we
carry on the supposition to six or seven thousand, the
whole reasoning ought to be reversed. The truth is,
that in all cases a certain number at least seems to be
necessary to secure the benefits of free consultation
and discussion, and to guard against too easy a
combination for improper purposes; as, on the other
hand, the number ought at most to be kept within
a certain limit, in order to avoid the confusion and
intemperance of a multitude. In all very numerous
assemblies, of whatever character composed, passion
never fails to wrest the sceptre from reason. Had
every Athenian citizen been a Socrates, every Athe-
nian assembly would still have been a mob.

It is necessary also to recollect here the observa-
tions which were applied to the case of biennial
elections. For the same reason that the limited
powers of the Congress, and the control of the State
legislatures, justify less frequent elections than the
public safely might otherwise require, the members
of the Congress need be less numerous than if they
possessed the whole power of legislation, and were
under no other than the ordinary restraints of other
legislative bodies.

76 Alexander Hamilton

With these general ideas in our minds, let us weigh
the objections which have been stated against the
number of members proposed for the House of
Representatives. It is said, in the first place, that
so small a number cannot be safely trusted with so
much power.

The number of which this branch of the legislature
is to consist, at the outset of the government, will be
sixty-five. Within three years a census is to be
taken, when the number may be augmented to one
for every thirty thousand inhabitants; and within
every successive period of ten years the census is to
be renewed, and augmentations may continue to be
made under the above limitation. It will not be
thought an extravagant conjecture that the first
census will, at the rate of one for every thirty thou-
sand, raise the number of representatives to at least
one hundred. Estimating the negroes in the pro-
portion of three fifths, it can scarcely be doubted
that the population of the United States will by that
time, if it does not already, amount to three millions.
At the expiration of twenty-five years, according to
the computed rate of increase, the number of repre-
sentatives will amount to two hundred; and of fifty
years, to four hundred. This is a number which, I
presume, will put an end to all fears arising from the
smallness of the body. I take for granted here what
I shall, in answering the fourth objection, hereafter
show, that the number of representatives will be aug-
mented from time to time in the manner provided by
the Constitution. On a contrary supposition, I should
admit the objection to have very great weight indeed.

The Federalist 77

The true question to be decided then is, whether
the smallness of the number, as a temporary regula-
tion, be dangerous to the pubhc Hberty? Whether
sixty-five members for a few years, and a hundred
or two hundred for a few more, be a safe depositary
for a Hmited and well-guarded power of legislating
for the United States ? I must own that I could not
give a negative answer to this question, without first
obliterating every impression which I have received
with regard to the present genius of the people of
America, the spirit which actuates the State legisla-
tures, and the principles which are incorporated with
the political character of every class of citizens. I
am unable to conceive that the people of America, in
their present temper, or under any circumstances
which can speedily happen, will choose, and every
second year repeat the choice of, sixty-five or a hun-
dred men who would be disposed to form and pursue
a scheme of tyranny or treachery. I am unable to
conceive that the State legislatures, which must feel
so many motives to watch, and which possess so
many means of counteracting, the federal legislature,
would fail either to detect or to defeat a conspiracy
of the latter against the liberties of their common
constituents. I am equally unable to conceive that
there are at this time, or can be in any short time,
in the United States, any sixty-five or a hundred
men capable of recommending themselves to the
choice of the people at large, who would either desire
or dare, within the short space of two years, to betray
the solemn trust committed to them. What change
of circumstances, time, and a fuller population of our

78 Alexander Hamilton

country may produce, requires a prophetic spirit to
declare, which makes no part of my pretensions.
But judging from the circumstances now before
us, and from the probable state of them within a
moderate period of time, I must pronounce that
the liberties of America cannot be unsafe in the
number of hands proposed by the federal Consti-
tution.

From what quarter can the danger proceed ? Are
we afraid of foreign gold? If foreign gold could so
easily corrupt our federal rulers and enable them to
ensnare and betray their constituents, how has it
happened that we are at this time a free and inde-
pendent nation? The congress which conducted us
through the Revolution was a less numerous body
than their successors will be; they were not chosen
by, nor responsible to, their fellow-citizens at large;
though appointed from year to year, and recallable
at pleasure, they were generally continued for three
years, and, prior to the ratification of the federal
articles, for a still longer term. They held their
consultations always under the veil of secrecy ; they
had the sole transaction of our affairs with foreign
nations: through the whole course of the war they
had the fate of their country more in their hands than
it is to be hoped will ever be the case with our future
representatives ; and from the greatness of the prize
at stake, and the eagerness of the party which lost it,
it may well be supposed that the use of other means
than force would not have been scrupled. Yet we
know by happy experience that the public trust was
not betrayed ; nor has the purity of our public coim-

The Federalist 79

cils in this particular ever suffered, even from the
whispers of calumny.

Is the danger apprehended from the other branches
of the federal government ? But where are the means
to be found by the President, or the Senate, or both?
Their emoluments of office, it is to be presumed, will
not, and without a previous corruption of the House
of Representatives cannot, more than suffice for very
different purposes; their private fortunes, as they
must all be American citizens, cannot possibly be
sources of danger. The only means, then, which
they can possess, will be in the dispensation of ap-
pointments. Is it here that suspicion rests her
charge? Sometimes we are told that this fund of
corruption is to be exhausted by the President in sub-
duing the virtue of the Senate. Now, the fidelity of
the other House is to be the victim. The improb-
ability of such a mercenary and perfidious combina-
tion of the several members of governraent, standing
on as different foundations as republican principles
will well admit, and at the same time accountable to
the society over which they are placed, ought alone to
quiet this apprehension. But, fortunately, the Con-
stitution has provided a still further safeguard. The
members of the Congress are rendered ineligible to
any civil offices that may be created, or of which the
emoluments may be increased, during the term of
their election. No offices therefore can be dealt out
to the existing members but such as may become
vacant by ordinary casualties: and to suppose that
these would be sufficient to purchase the guardians
of the people, selected by the people themselves, is

8o Alexander Hamilton

to renounce every rule by which events ought to be
calculated, and to substitute an indiscriminate and
unbounded jealousy, with which all reasoning must
be vain. The sincere friends of liberty, who give
themselves up to the extravagancies of this passion,
are not aware of the injury they do their own cause.
As there is a degree of depravity in mankind which
requires a certain degree of circumspection and dis-
trust, so there are other qualities in human nature
which justify a certain portion of esteem and confi-
dence. Republican government presupposes the
existence of these qualities in a higher degree than
any other form. Were the pictures which have been
drawn by the political jealousy of some among us
faithful likenesses of the human character, the in-
ference would be, that there is not sufficient virtue
among men for self-government; and that nothing
less than the chains of despotism can restrain them
from destroying and devouring one another.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, February 19, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LVI

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The second charge against the House of Repre-
sentatives is, that it will be too small to possess a due
knowledge of the interests of its constituents.

As this objection evidently proceeds from a com-
parison of the proposed number of representatives
with the great extent of the United States, the num-

The Federalist 8i

ber of their inhabitants, and the diversity of their
interests, without taking into view at the same time
the circumstances which will distinguish the Congress
from other legislative bodies, the best answer that
can be given to it will be a brief explanation of these
peculiarities.

It is a sound and important principle that the
representative ought to be acquainted with the in-
terests and circumstances of his constituents. But
this principle can extend no further than to those
circumstances and interests to which the authority
and care of the representative relate. An ignorance
of a variety of minute and particular objects, which
do not lie within the compass of legislation, is con-
sistent with every attribute necessary to a due per-
formance of the legislative trust. In determining
the extent of information required in the exercise of
a particular authority, recourse then must be had
to the objects within the purview of that authority.

What are to be the objects of federal legislation?
Those which are of most importance, and which seem
most to require local knowledge, are commerce, taxa-
tion, and the militia.

A proper regulation of commerce requires much
information, as has been elsewhere remarked; but
as far as this information relates to the laws and
local situation of each individual State, a very few
representatives would be very sufficient vehicles of
it to the federal councils.

Taxation will consist, in a great measure, of duties
which will be involved in the regulation of commerce.
So far the preceding remark is applicable to this

* VOL. XII.— €.

^T*

82 Alexander Hamilton

object. As far as it may consist of internal collections,
a more diffusive knowledge of the circumstances of
the State may be necessary. But will not this also
be possessed in sufficient degree by a very few in-
telligent men, diffusively elected within the State?
Divide the largest State into ten or twelve dis-
tricts, and it will be found that there will be no pe-
culiar local interests in either, which will not be
within the knowledge of the representative of the
district. Besides this source of information, the
laws of the State, framed by representatives from
every part of it, will be almost of themselves a
sufficient guide. In every State there have been
made, and must continue to be made, regulations on
this subject which will, in many cases, leave little
more to be done by the federal legislature, than to
review the different laws, and reduce them in one
general act. A skilful individual in his closet, with
all the local codes before him, might compile a law
on some subjects of taxation for the whole Union,
without any aid from oral information, and it may
be expected that whenever internal taxes may be
necessary, and particularly in cases requiring uni-
formity throughout the States, the more simple ob-
jects will be preferred. To be fully sensible of the
facility which will be given to this branch of federal
legislation by the assistance of the State codes, we
need only suppose for a moment that this or any
other State were divided into a number of parts,
each having and exercising within itself a power of
local legislation. Is it not evident that a degree of
local information and preparatory labor would be

The Federalist S;^

found in the several volumes of their proceedings,
which would very much shorten the labors of the
general legislature, and render a much smaller num-
ber of members sufficient for it ?

The federal councils will derive great advantage
from another circumstance. The representatives of
each State will not only bring with them a consider-
able knowledge of its laws, and a local knowledge of
their respective districts, but will probably in all
cases have been members, and may even at the very
time be members, of the State legislature, where all
the local information and interests of the State are
assembled, and from whence they may easily be
conveyed by a very few hands into the legislature
of the United States.

The observations made on the subject of taxation
apply with greater force to the case of the militia. '
For however different the rules of discipline may be
in different States, they are the same throughout
each particular State; and depend on circumstances
which can differ but little in different parts of the
same State.

The attentive reader will discern that the reason-
ing here used, to prove the sufficiency of a moderate
number of representatives, does not in any respect
contradict what was urged on another occasion with

^ In the revised text this sentence reads : ' ' With regard to the regula-
tion of the militia, there are scarcely any circumstances in reference
to which local knowledge can be said to be necessary. The general
face of the country, whether mountainous or level, most fit for the
operations of infantry or cavalry, is almost the only consideration of
this nature that can occur. The art of war teaches general prin-
ciples of organization, movement, and discipline, which apply uni-
versally."

84 Alexander Hamilton

regard to the extensive information which the re-
presentatives ought to possess, and the time that
might be necessary for acquiring it. This informa-
tion, so far as it may relate to local objects, is ren-
dered necessary and difficult, not by a difference of
laws and local circumstances within a single State,
but of those among different States. Taking each
State by itself, its laws are the same, and its interests
but little diversified. A few men, therefore, will
possess all the knowledge requisite for a proper re-
presentation of them. Were the interests and affairs
of each individual State perfectly simple and uni-
form, a knowledge of them in one part would in-
volve a knowledge of them in every other, and the
whole State might be competently represented by a
single member taken from any part of it. On a
comparison of the different States together, we find
a great dissimilarity in their laws, and in many other
circumstances connected with the objects of federal
legislation, with all of which the federal representa-
tives ought to have some acquaintance. Whilst a
few representatives, therefore, from each State, may
bring with them a due knowledge of their own State,
every representative will have much information
to acquire concerning all the other States. The
changes of time, as was formerly remarked, on the
comparative situation of the different States, will
have an assimilating effect. The effect of time on
the internal affairs of the States, taken singly, will
be just the contrary. At present some of the States
are little more than a society of husbandmen. Few
of them have made much progress in those branches

The Federalist 85

of industry which give a variety and complexity to
the affairs of a nation. These, however, will in all
of them be the fruits of a more advanced population ;
and will require, on the part of each State, a fuller
representation. The foresight of the convention has
accordingly taken care that the progress of popula-
tion may be accompanied with a proper increase of
the representative branch of the government.

The experience of Great Britain, which presents
to mankind so many political lessons, both of the
monitory and exemplary kind, and which has been
frequently consulted in the course of these inquiries,
corroborates the result of the reflections which we
have just made. The number of inhabitants in the
two kingdoms of England and Scotland cannot be
stated at less than eight millions. The representa-
tives of these eight millions in the House of Com-
mons amount to five hundred and fifty-eight. Of
this number, one ninth are elected by three hundred
and sixty-four persons, and one half, by five thou-
sand seven hundred and twenty-three persons.' It
cannot be supposed that the half thus elected, and
who do not even reside among the people at large,
can add any thing either to the security of the people
against the government, or to the knowledge of their
circumstances and interests in the legislative coun-
cils. On the contrary, it is notorious that, they are
more frequently the representatives and instruments
of the executive magistrate, than the guardians
and advocates of the popular rights. They might
therefore, with great propriety, be considered as

* Burgh's Political Disquisitions. — Publius.

86 Alexander Hamilton

something more than a mere deduction from the
real representatives of the nation. We will, however,
consider them in this light alone, and will not extend
the deduction to a considerable number of others,
who do not reside among their constituents, are very
faintly connected with them, and have very little
particular knowledge of their affairs. With all these
concessions, two hundred and seventy-nine persons
only will be the depositary of the safety, interest, and
happiness of eight millions — that is to say, there will
be one representative only to maintain the rights
and explain the situation of twenty-eight thousand
six hundred and seventy constituents, in an assembly
exposed to the whole force of executive influence,
and extending its authority to every object of legis-
lation within a nation whose affairs are in the highest
degree diversified and complicated. Yet it is very
certain, not only that a valuable portion of freedom
has been preserved under all these circumstances,
but that the defects in the British code are charge-
able, in a very small proportion, on the ignorance of
the legislature concerning the circumstances of the
people. Allowing to this case the weight which is
due to it, and comparing it with that of the House
of Representatives as above explained, it seems to
give the fullest assurance, that a representative for
every thirty thousand inhabitants will render the latter
both a safe and competent guardian of the interests
which will be confided to it.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 87

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, February ig, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LVII

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The third charge against the House of Repre-
sentatives is, that it will be taken from that class of
citizens which will have least sympathy with the
mass of the people, and be most likely to aim at an
ambitious sacrifice of the many to the aggrandize-
ment of the few.

Of all the objections which have been framed
against the federal Constitution, this is perhaps the
most extraordinary. Whilst the objection itself is
levelled against a pretended oligarchy, the principle
of it strikes at the very root of republican govern-
ment.

The aim of every political constitution is, or ought
to be, first to obtain for rulers men who possess most
wisdom to discern, and most virtue to pursue, the
common good of the society ; and in the next place,
to take the most effectual precautions for keeping
them virtuous whilst they continue to hold their
public trust. The elective mode of obtaining rulers
is the characteristic policy of republican govern-
ment. The means relied om in this form of govern-
ment for preventing their degeneracy are numerous
and various. The most effectual one, is such a
limitation of the term of appointments as will main-
tain a proper responsibility to the people.

Let me now ask what circumstance there is in the
constitution of the House of Representatives that

88 Alexander Hamilton

violates the principles of republican government, or
favors the elevation of the few on the ruins of the
many? Let me ask whether every circumstance is
not, on the contrary, strictly conformable to these
principles, and scrupulously impartial to the rights
and pretensions of every class and description of
citizens ?

Who are to be the electors of the federal repre-
sentatives? Not the rich, more than the poor; not
the learned, more than the ignorant ; not the haughty
heirs of distinguished names, more than the humble
sons of obscurity and unpropitious fortune. The
electors are to be the great body of the people of the
United States. They are to be the same who exer-
cise the right in every State of electing the corre-
sponding branch of the legislature of the State.

Who are to be the objects of popular choice ? Every
citizen whose merit may recommend him to the es-
teem and confidence of his country. No qualifica-
tion of wealth, of birth, of religious faith, or of civil
profession is permitted to fetter the judgment or
disappoint the inclination of the people.

If we consider the situation of the men on whom
the free suffrages of their fellow-citizens may confer
the representative trust, we shall find it involving
every security which can be devised or desired for
their fidelity to their constituents.

In the first place, as they will have been distin-
guished by the preference of their fellow-citizens,
we are to presume that in general they will be some-
what distinguished also by those qualities which
entitle them to it, and which promise a sincere and

The Federalist 89

scrupulous regard to the nature of their engage-
ments.

In the second place, they will enter into the public
service under circumstances which cannot fail to pro-
duce a temporary affection at least to their constitu-
ents. There is in every breast a sensibility to marks
of honor, of favor, of esteem, and of confidence, which,
apart from all considerations of interest, is some
pledge for grateful and benevolent returns. In-
gratitude is a common topic of declamation against
human nature; and it must be confessed that in-
stances of it are but too frequent and flagrant, both
in public and in private life. But the universal and
extreme indignation which it inspires is itself a
proof of the energy and prevalence of the contrary
sentiment.

In the third place, those ties which bind the repre-
sentative to his constituents are strengthened by
motives of a more selfish nature. His pride and
vanity attach him to a form of government which
favors his pretensions and gives him a share in its
honors and distinctions. Whatever hopes or projects
might be entertained by a few aspiring characters,
it must generally happen that a great proportion
of the men deriving their advancement from their
influence with the people, would have more to hope
from a preservation of the favor, than from in-
novations in the government subversive of the
authority of the people.

All these securities, however, would be found very
insufficient without the restraint of frequent elec-
tions. Hence, in the fourth place, the House of

90 Alexander Hamilton

Representatives is so constituted as to support in the
members an habitual recollection of their dependence
on the people. Before the sentiments impressed on
their minds by the mode of their elevation can be
effaced by the exercise of power, they will be com-
pelled to anticipate the moment when their power is
to cease, when their exercise of it is to be reviewed,
and when they must descend to the level from which
they were raised; there forever to remain unless a
faithful discharge of their trust shall have estab-
lished their title to a renewal of it.

I will add, as a fifth circumstance in the situation
of the House of Representatives, restraining them
from oppressive measures, that they can make no
law which will not have its full operation on them-
selves and their friends, as well as on the great mass
of the society. This has always been deemed one
of the strongest bonds by which human policy can
connect the rulers and the people together. It
creates between them that communion of interests
and sympathy of sentiments, of which few govern-
ments have furnished examples; but without which
every government degenerates into tyranny. If it
be asked, what is to restrain the House of Repre-
sentatives from making legal discriminations in favor
of themselves and a particular class of the society?
I answer: the genius of the whole system; the na-
ture of just and constitutional laws; and above all,
the vigilant and manly spirit which actuates the
people of America — a spirit which nourishes free-
dom, and in return is nourished by it.

If this spirit shall ever be so far debased as to

The Federalist 91

tolerate a law not obligatory on the legislature, as
well as on the people, the people will be prepared to
tolerate any thing but liberty.

Such will be the relation between the House of Re-
presentatives and their constituents. Duty, grati-
tude, interest, ambition itself, are the chords by
which they will be bound to fidelity and sympathy
with the great mass of the people. It is possible
that these may all be insufficient to control the
caprice and wickedness of man. But are they not
all that government will admit, and that human
prudence can devise ? Are they not the genuine and
the characteristic means by which republican gov-
ernment provides for the liberty and happiness of
the people? Are they not the identical means on
which every State government in the Union relies
for the attainment of these important ends? What
then are we to understand by the objection which
this paper has combated? What are. we to say to
the men who profess the most flaming zeal for repub-
lican government, yet boldly impeach the funda-
mental principle of it ; who pretend to be champions
for the right and the capacity of the people to choose
their own rulers, yet maintain that they will prefer
those only who will immediately and infallibly be-
tray the trust committed to them?

Were the objection to be read by one who had not
seen the mode prescribed by the Constitution for the
choice of representatives, he could suppose nothing
less than that some unreasonable qualification of
property was annexed to the right of suffrage; or
that the right of eligibility was limited to persons

92 Alexander Hamilton

of particular families or fortunes; or at least that
the mode prescribed by the State constitutions was,
in some respect or other, very grossly departed from.
We have seen how far such a supposition would err,
as to the two first points. Nor would it, in fact, be
less erroneous as to the last. The only difference
discoverable between the two cases is, that each
representative of the United States will be elected
by five or six thousand citizens; whilst in the indi-
vidual States, the election of a representative is left
to about as many hundreds. Will it be pretended
that this difference is sufficient to justify an attach-
ment to the State governments, and an abhorrence
to the federal government? If this be the point on
which the objection turns, it deserves to be ex-
amined.

Is it supported by reason? This cannot be said,
without maintaining that five or six thousand citizens
are less capable of choosing a fit representative, or
more liable to be corrupted by an unfit one, than
five or six hundred. Reason, on the contrary, as-
sures us, that as in so great a number a fit repre-
sentative would be most likely to be found, so the
choice would be less likely to be diverted from him
by the intrigues of the ambitious or the bribes of
the rich.

Is the consequence from this doctrine admissible?
If we say that five or six hundred citizens are as
many as can jointly exercise their right of suffrage,
must we not deprive the people of the immediate
choice of their public servants, in every instance
where the administration of the government does not

The Federalist 93

require as many of them as will amount to one for
that number of citizens ?

Is the doctrine warranted by facts? It was shown
in the last paper, that the real representation in the
British House of Commons very little exceeds the
proportion of one for every thirty thousand inhabi-
tants. Besides a variety of powerful causes not
existing here, and which favor in that country the
pretensions of rank and wealth, no person is eligible
as a representative of a county, unless he possess
real estate of the clear value of six hundred pounds
sterling per year; nor of a city or borough, unless he
possess a like estate of half that annual value. To
this qualification on the part of the county repre-
sentatives is added another on the part of the county
electors, which restrains the right of suffrage to per-
sons having a freehold estate of the annual value of
more than twenty pounds sterling, according to the
present rate of money. Notwithstanding these un-
favorable circumstances, and notwithstanding some
very unequal laws in the British code, it cannot be
said that the representatives of the nation have
elevated the few on the ruins of the many.

But we need not resort to foreign experience on
this subject. Our own is explicit and decisive. The
districts in New Hampshire in which the senators
are chosen immediately by the people, are nearly as
large as will be necessary for her representatives in
the Congress. Those of Massachusetts are larger
than will be necessary for that purpose ; and those of
New York still more so. In the last State the mem-
bers of Assembly for the cities and counties of New

94 Alexander Hamilton

York and Albany are elected by very nearly as
many voters as will be entitled to a representative
in the Congress, calculating on the number of sixty-
five representatives only. It makes no difference
that in these senatorial districts and counties a num-
ber of representatives are voted for by each elector
at the same time. If the same electors at the same
time are capable of choosing four or five representa-
tives, they cannot be incapable of choosing one.
Pennsylvania is an additional example. Some of
her counties, which elect her State representatives,
are almost as large as her districts will be by which
her federal representatives will be elected. The city
of Philadelphia is supposed to contain between fifty
and sixty thousand souls. It will therefore form
nearly two districts for the choice of federal repre-
sentatives. It forms, however, but one county, in
which every elector votes for each of its representa-
tives in the State legislature. And what may appear
to be still more directly to our purpose, the whole
city actually elects a single member for the executive
council. This is the case in all the other counties of
the State.

Are not these facts the most satisfactory proofs of
the fallacy which has been employed against the
branch of the federal government under considera-
tion? Has it appeared on trial that the senators of
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and New York, or
the executive council of Pennsylvania, or the mem-
bers of the Assembly in the two last States, have
betrayed any peculiar disposition to sacrifice the
many to the few, or are in any respect less worthy

The Federalist 95

of their places than the representatives and magis-
trates appointed in other States by very small divis-
sions of the people ?

But there are cases of a stronger complexion than
any which I have yet quoted. One branch of the
legislature of Connecticut is so constituted that each
member of it is elected by the whole State. So is
the governor of that State, of Massachusetts, and of
this State, and the president of New Hampshire. I
leave every man to decide whether the result of any
one of these experiments can be said to countenance
a suspicion, that a diffusive mode of choosing repre-
sentatives of the people tends to elevate traitors
and to undermine the public liberty.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday , February 22, 1788
WHE FEDERALIST. No. LVIII

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The remaining charge against the House of Repre-
sentatives, which I am to examine, is grounded on a
supposition that the number of members will not be
augmented from time to time, as the progress of
population may demand.

It has been admitted, that this objection, if well
supported, would have great weight. The following
observations will show that, like most other objec-
tions against the Constitution, it can only proceed
from a partial view of the subject, or from a jealousy

96 Alexander Hamilton

which discolors and disfigures every object which is
beheld.

1. Those who urge the objection seem not to have
recollected that the federal Constitution will not
suffer by a comparison with the State constitutions,
in the security provided for a gradual augmentation
of the number of representatives. The number
which is to prevail in the first instance is declared to
be temporary. Its duration is limited to the short
term of three years. Within every successive term
of ten years a census of inhabitants is to be repeated.
The unequivocal objects of these regulations are,
first, to readjust, from time to time, the apportion-
ment of representatives to the number of inhabitants,
under the single exception that each State shall have
one representative at least ; secondly, to augment the
number of representatives at the same periods, under
the sole limitation that the whole number shall not
exceed one for every thirty thousand inhabitants.
If we review the constitutions of the several States,
we shall find that some of them contain no deter-
minate regulations on this subject, that others cor-
respond pretty much on this point with the federal
Constitution and that the most effectual security in
any of them is resolvable into a mere directory
provision.

2. As far as experience has taken place on this
subject, a gradual increase of representatives under
the State constitutions has at least kept pace with
that of the constituents, and it appears that the for-
mer have been as ready to concur in such measures
as the latter have been to call for them.

The Federalist 97

3. There is a peculiarity in the federal Constitution
which insures a watchful attention in a majority both
of the people and of their representatives to a con-
stitutional augmentation of the latter. The peculi-
arity lies in this, that one branch of the legislature is
a representation of citizens, the other of the States:
in the former, consequently, the larger States will
have most weight ; in the latter, the advantage will
be in favor of the smaller States. From this circum-
stance it may with certainty be inferred that the
larger States will be strenuous advocates for in-
creasing the number and weight of that part of the
legislature in which their influence predominates.
And it so happens that four only of the largest will
have a majority of the whole votes in the House of
Representatives. Should the representatives or peo-
ple, therefore, of the smaller States oppose at any
time a reasonable addition of members, a coalition
of a very few States will be sufficient to oven-ule the
opposition; a coalition which, notwithstanding the
rivalship and local prejudices which might prevent
it on ordinary occasions, would not fail to take place,
when not merely prompted by common interest, but
justified by equity and the principles of the Consti-
tution.

It may be alleged, perhaps, that the Senate would
be prompted by like motives to an adverse coalition ;
and as their concurrence would be indispensable, the
just and constitutional views of the other branch
might be defeated. This is the difficulty which has
probably created the most serious apprehensions in
the jealous friends of a numerous representation.

VOL. XII.-

98 Alexander Hamilton

Fortunately it is among the difficulties which, exist-
ing only in appearance, vanish on a close and
accurate inspection. The following reflections will,
if I mistake not, be admitted to be conclusive and
satisfactory on this point.

Notwithstanding the equal authority which will
subsist between the two houses on all legislative
subjects, except the originating of money bills, it
cannot be doubted that the House, composed of the
greater number of members, when supported by the
more powerful States, and speaking the known and
determined sense of a majority of the people, will
have no small advantage in a question depending on
the comparative firmness of the two houses.

This advantage must be increased by the con-
sciousness, felt by the same side, of being supported
in its demands by right, by reason, and by the
Constitution; and the consciousness, on the opposite
side, of contending against the force of all these
solemn considerations.

It is farther to be considered, that in the gradation
between the smallest and largest States, there are
several, which, though most likely in general to
arrange themselves among the former, are too little
removed in extent and population from the latter, to
second an opposition to their just and legitimate
pretensions. Hence it is by no means certain that a
majority of votes, even in the Senate, would be un-
friendly to proper augmentations in the number of
representatives .

It will not be looking too far to add, that the
senators from all the new States may be gained over

The Federalist 99

to the just views of the House of Representatives, by
an expedient too obvious to be overlooked. As these
States will, for a great length of time, advance in
population with peculiar rapidity, they will be in-
terested in frequent reapportionments of the repre-
sentatives to the number of inhabitants. The large
States, therefore, who will prevail in the House of
Representatives, will have nothing to do but to make
reapportionments and augmentations mutually con-
ditions of each other; and the senators from all the
most growing States will be bound to contend for
the latter, by the interest which their States will feel
in the former.

These considerations seem to afford ample security
on this subject, and ought alone to satisfy all the
doubts and fears which have been indulged with regard
to it. Admitting, however, that they should all be
insufficient to subdue the unjust policy of the smaller
States, or their predominant influence in the coun-
cils of the Senate, a constitutional and infallible
resource still remains with the larger States, by which
they will be able at all times to accomplish their just
purposes. The House of Representatives cannot
only refuse, but they alone can propose, the supplies
requisite for the support of government. They, in a
word, hold the purse — that powerful instrument by
which we behold, in the history of the British Consti-
tution, an infant and humble representation of the
people gradually enlarging the sphere of its activity
and importance, and finally reducing, as far as it
seems to have wished, all the overgrown prerogatives
of the other branches of the government. This

loo Alexander Hamilton

power over the purse may, in fact, be regarded as
the most complete and effectual weapon with which
any constitution can arm the immediate representa-
tives of the people, for obtaining a redress of every
grievance, and for carrying into effect every just and
salutary measure.

But will not the House of Representatives be as
much interested as the Senate in maintaining the
government in its proper functions, and will they not
therefore be unwilling to stake its existence or its
reputation on the pliancy of the Senate? Or, if such
a trial of firmness between the two branches were
hazarded, would not the one be as likely first to yield
as the other? These questions will create no diffi-
culty with those who reflect that in all cases the
smaller the number, and the more permanent and
conspicuous the station, of men in power, the stronger
must be the interest which they will individually feel
in whatever concerns the government. Those who
represent the dignity of their country in the eyes of
other nations, will be particularly sensible to every
prospect of public danger, or of dishonorable stagna-
tion in public affairs. To those causes we are to
ascribe the continual triumph of the British House of
Commons over the other branches of the govern-
ment, whenever the engine of a money bill has been
employed. An absolute inflexibility on the side of
the latter, although it could not have failed to involve
every department of the state in the general confu-
sion, has neither been apprehended nor experienced.
The utmost degree of firmness that can be displayed
by the federal Senate or President, will not be more

The Federalist loi

than equal to a resistance in which they will be sup-
ported by constitutional and patriotic principles.

In this review of the Constitution of the House of
Representatives, I have passed over the circum-
stances of economy, which, in the present state of
affairs, might have had some effect in lessening the
temporary number of representatives, and a disre-
gard of which would probably have been as rich a
theme of declamation against the Constitution as has
been shown by the smallness of the number proposed.
I omit also any remarks on the dif^culty which might
be found, under present circumstances, in engaging
in the federal service a large number of such char-
acters as the people will probably elect. One obser-
vation, however, I must be permitted to add on this
subject as claiming, in my judgment, a very serious
attention. It is, that in all legislative assemblies
the greater the number composing them may be, the
fewer will be the men who will in fact direct their
proceedings. In the first place, the more numerous
an assembly may be, of whatever characters com-
posed, the greater is known to be the ascendancy of
passion over reason. In the next place, the larger
the number, the greater will be the proportion of
members of limited information and of weak capaci-
ties. Now, it is precisely on characters of this de-
scription that the eloquence and address of the few
are known to act with all their force. In the ancient
republics, where the whole body of the people as-
sembled in person, a single orator, or an artfid
statesman, was generally seen to rule with as com-
plete a sway as if a sceptre had been placed in his

I02 Alexander Hamilton

single hand. On the same principle, the more
multitudinous a representative assembly may be
rendered, the more it will partake of the infirmities
incident to collective meetings of the people. Ignor-
ance will be the dupe of cunning, and passion the
slave of sophistry and declamation. The people can
never err more than in supposing that by multiplying
their representatives beyond a certain limit, they
strengthen the barrier against the government of a
few. Experience will forever admonish them that,
on the contrary, after securing a sufficient number for
the purposes of safety, of local information, and of
diffusive sympathy with the whole society, they will
counteract their own views by every addition to
their representatives. The countenance of the gov-
ernment may become more democratic, but the soul
that animates it will be more oligarchic. The
machine will be enlarged, but the fewer, and often
the more secret, will be the springs by which its
motions are directed.

As connected with the objection against the num-
ber of representatives, may properly be here noticed,
that which has been suggested against the number
made competent for legislative business. It has been
said that more than a majority ought to have been
required for a quorum; and in particular cases, if
not in all, more than a majority of a quorum for a
decision. That some advantages might have re-
sulted from such a precaution, cannot be denied. It
might have been an additional shield to some particu-
lar interests, and another obstacle generally to hasty
and partial measures. But these considerations are

The Federalist 103

outweighed by the inconveniences in the opposite
scale. In all cases where justice or the general good
might require new laws to be passed, or active
measures to be pursued, the fundamental principle of
free government would be reversed. It would be no
longer the majority that would rule: the power
would be transferred to the minority. Were the
defensive privilege limited to particular cases, an
interested minority might take advantage of it to
screen themselves from equitable sacrifices to the
general weal, or, in particular emergencies, to extort
unreasonable indulgences. Lastly, it would facili-
tate and foster the baneful practice of secessions; a
practice which has shown itself even in States where
a majority only is required ; a practice subversive of
all the principles of order and regular government ; a
practice which leads more directly to public con-
vulsions, and the ruin of popular governments, than
any other which has yet been displayed among us.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, February 22, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LIX

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The natural order of the subject leads us to con-
sider, in this place, that provision of the Constitution
which authorizes the national legislature to regulate,
in the last resort, the election of its own members.

It is in these words: '' The times, places, and man-
ner of holding elections for senators and representa-

I04 Alexander Hamilton

tives shall be prescribed in each State by the legisla-
ture thereof; but the Congress may, at any time, by
law, make or alter such regulations, except as to the
places of choosing senators." ' This provision has
not only been declaimed against by those who con-
demn the Constitution in the gross ; but it has been
censured by those who have objected with less lati-
tude and greater moderation; and, in one instance,
it has been thought exceptionable by a gentleman
who has declared himself the advocate of every other
part of the system. i

I am greatly mistaken, notwithstanding, if there
be any article in the whole plan more completely
defensible than this. Its propriety rests upon the
evidence of this plain proposition, that every govern-
ment ought to contain in itself the means of its own
preservation. Every just reasoner will, at first sight,
approve an adherence to this rule, in the work of the
convention; and will disapprove every deviation
from it which may not appear to have been dictated
by the necessity of incorporating into the work some
particular ingredient, with which a rigid conformity
to the rule was incompatible. Even in this case,
though he may acquiesce in the necessity, yet he will
not cease to regard and to regret a departure from
so fundamental a principle, as a portion of imperfec-
tion in the system which may prove the seed of
future weakness, and perhaps anarchy.

It will not be alleged, that an election law could
have been framed and inserted in the Constitution,
which would have been always applicable to every

' ist clause, 4th section, of the ist article. — Publius.

The Federalist 105

probable change in the situation of the country ; and
it will therefore not be denied, that a discretionary
power over elections ought to exist somewhere. It
will, I presume, be as readily conceded, that there
were only three ways in which this power could have
been reasonably modified and disposed : that it must
either have been lodged wholly in the national legis-
lature, or wholly in the State legislatures, or pii-
marily in the latter and ultimately in the former.
The last mode has, with reason, been preferred by
the convention. They have submitted the regula-
tion of elections for the federal government, in the
first instance, to the local administrations; which,
in ordinary cases, and when no improper views pre-
vail, may be both more convenient and more satis-
factory; but they have reserved to the national
authority a right to interpose, whenever extraordi-
nary circumstances might render that interposition
necessary to its safety.

Nothing can be more evident, than that an exclu-
sive power of regulating elections for the national
government, in the hands of the State legislatures,
would leave the existence of the Union entirely at
their mercy. They could at any moment annihilate
it, by neglecting to provide for the choice of persons
to administer its affairs. It is to little purpose to
say, that a neglect or omission of this kind would not
be likely to take place. The constitutional possi-
bility of the thing, without an equivalent for the
risk, is an unanswerable objection. Nor has any
satisfactory reason been yet assigned for incurring
that risk. The extravagant surmises of a distem-

io6 Alexander Hamilton

pered jealousy can never be dignified with that
character. If we are in a humor to presume abuses
of power, it is as fair to presume them on the part of
the State governments as on the part of the general
government. And as it is more consonant to the rules
of a just theory, to trust the Union with the care of
its own existence, than to transfer that care to any
other hands, if abuses of power are to be hazarded
on the one side or on the other, it is more rational to
hazard them where the power would naturally be
placed, than where it would unnaturally be placed.

Suppose an article had been introduced into the
Constitution, empowering the United States to regu-
late the elections for the particular States, would
any man have hesitated to condemn it, both as an
unwarrantable transposition of power, and as a pre-
meditated engine for the destruction of the State
governments? The violation of principle, in this
case, would have required no comment; and, to an
unbiased observer, it will not be less apparent in the
project of subjecting the existence of the national
government, in a similar respect, to the pleasure of
the State governments. An impartial view of the
matter cannot fail to result in a conviction, that
each, as far as possible, ought to depend on itself for
its own preservation.

As an objection to this position, it may be re-
marked that the constitution of the national Senate
would involve, in its full extent, the danger which it
is suggested might flow from an exclusive power in
the State legislatures to regulate the federal elec-
tions. It may be alleged, that by declining the ap-

The Federalist 107

pointment of senators, they might at any time give
a fatal blow to the Union; and from this it may be
inferred, that as its existence would be thus rendered
dependent upon them in so essential a point, there
can be no objection to intrusting them with it in the
particular case under consideration. The interest of
each State, it may be added, to maintain its repre-
sentation in the national councils, would be a com-
plete security against an abuse of the trust.

This argument, though specious, will not, upon
examination, be found solid. It is certainly true
that the State legislatures, by forbearing the ap-
pointment of senators, may destroy the national
government. But it will not follow that, because
they have the power to do this in one instance, they
ought to have it in every other. There are cases
in which the pernicious tendency of such a power
may be far more decisive, without any motive
equally cogent with that which must have regulated
the conduct of the convention in respect to the
formation of the Senate, to recommend their admis-
sion into the system. So far as that construction
may expose the Union to the possibility of injury
from the State legislatures, it is an evil; but it is an
evil which could not have been avoided without ex-
cluding the States, in their political capacities,
wholly from a place in the organization of the na-
tional government. If this had been done, it would
doubtless have been interpreted into an entire de-
reliction of the federal principle ; and would certainly
have deprived the State governments of that abso-
lute safeguard which they will enjoy under this

io8 Alexander Hamilton

provision. But however wise it may have been to
have submitted in this instance to an inconvenience
for the attainment of a necessary advantage or a
greater good, no inference can be drawn from thence
to favor an accumulation of the evil, where no neces-
sity urges, nor any greater good invites.

It may be easily discerned also that the national
government would run a much greater risk from a
power in the State legislatures over the elections of
its House of Representatives, than from their power
of appointing the members of its Senate. The sena-
tors are to be chosen for the period of six years;
there is to be a rotation, by which the seats of a third
part of them are to be vacated and replenished every
two years; and no State is to be entitled to more
than two senators; a quorum of the body is to con-
sist of sixteen members. The joint result of these
circumstances would be, that a temporary combina-
tion of a few States to intermit the appointment of
senators, could neither annul the existence nor im-
pair the activity of the body; and it is not from a
general and permanent combination of the States
that we can have any thing to fear. The first might
proceed from sinister designs in the leading members
of a few of the State legislatures ; the last would sup-
pose a fixed and rooted disaffection in the great body
of the people, which will either never exist at all, or
will, in all probability, proceed from an experience
of the inaptitude of the general government to the
advancement of their happiness — in which event no
good citizen could desire its continuance.

But with regard to the federal House of Repre-

The Federalist 109

sentatives, there is intended to be a general election
of members once in two years. If the State legisla-
tures were to be invested with an exclusive power of
regulating these elections, every period of making
them would be a delicate crisis in the national situa-
tion, which might issue in a dissolution of the Union,
if the leaders of a few of the most important States
should have entered into a previous conspiracy to
prevent an election.

I shall not deny, that there is a degree of weight in
the observation, that the interests of each State, to
be represented in the federal councils, will be a secur-
ity against the abuse of a power over its elections in
the hands of the State legislatures. But the security
will not be considered as complete, by those who at-
tend to the force of an obvious distinction between
the interest of the people in the public felicity, and
the interest of their local rulers in the power and con-
sequence of their offices. The people of America
may be warmly attached to the government of the
Union, at times when the particular rulers of par-
ticular States, stimulated by the natural rivalship of
power, and by the hopes of personal aggrandizement,
and supported by a strong faction in each of those
States, may be in a very opposite temper. This
diversity of sentiment between a majority of the
people, and the individuals who have the greatest
credit in their councils, is exemplified in some of the
States at the present moment, on the present ques-
tion. The scheme of separate confederacies, which
will always multiply the chances of ambition, will be
a never-failing bait to all such influential characters

no Alexander Hamilton

in the State administrations as are capable of pre-
ferring their own emolument and advancement to
the public weal. With so effectual a weapon in
their hands as the exclusive power of regulating elec-
tions for the national government, a combination of
a few such men, in a few of the most considerable
States, where the temptation will always be the
strongest, might accomplish the destruction of the
Union, by seizing the opportunity of some casual
dissatisfaction among the people (and which perhaps
they may themselves have excited), to discontinue
the choice of members for the federal House of Re-
presentatives. It ought never to be forgotten, that
a firm union of this country, under an efficient gov-
ernment, will probably be an increasing object of
jealousy to more than one nation of Europe; and
that enterprises to subvert it will sometimes originate
in the intrigues of foreign powers, and will seldom
fail to be patronized and abetted by some of them.
Its preservation therefore ought in no case that can
be avoided, to be committed to the guardianship of
any but those whose situation will uniformly beget
an immediate interest in the faithful and vigilant
performance of the trust.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, February 26, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No, LX

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

We have seen, that an uncontrollable power over
the elections to the federal government could not,

The Federalist in

without hazard, be committed to the State legisla-
tures. Let us now see, what would be the danger
on the other side; that is, from confiding the ulti-
mate right of regulating its own elections to the
Union itself. It is not pretended, that this right
would ever be used for the exclusion of any State
from its share in the representation. The interest of
all would, in this respect at least, be the security of
all. But it is alleged, that it might be employed in
such a manner as to promote the election of some
favorite class of men in exclusion of others, by con-
fining the places of election to particular districts,
and rendering it impracticable to the citizens at
large to partake in the choice. Of all chimerical
suppositions, this seems to be the most chimerical.
On the one hand, no rational calculation of proba-
bilities would lead us to imagine that the disposition
which a conduct so violent and extraordinary would
imply, could ever find its way into the national
councils ; and on the other, it may be concluded with
certainty, that if so improper a spirit should ever
gain admittance into them, it would display itself in
a form altogether different and far more decisive.

The improbability of the attempt may be satis-
factorily inferred from this single reflection, that it
could never be made without causing an immediate
revolt of the great body of the people, headed and
directed by the State governments. It is not diffi-
cult to conceive that this characteristic right of free-
dom may, in certain turbulent and factious seasons,
be violated, in respect to a particular class of citizens,
by a victorious and overbearing majority; but that

112 Alexander Hamilton

so fundamental a privilege, in a country so situated
and enlightened, should be invaded to the prejudice
of the great mass of the people, by the deliberate
policy of the government, without occasioning a
popular revolution, is altogether inconceivable and
incredible.

In addition to this general reflection, there are
considerations of a more precise nature, which for-
bid all apprehension on the subject. The dissimi-
larity in the ingredients which will compose the
national government, and still more in the manner in
which they will be brought into action in its various
branches, must form a powerful obstacle to a con-
cert of views in any partial scheme of elections.
There is sufficient diversity in the state of property,
in the genius, manners, and habits of the people of
the different parts of the Union, to occasion a ma-
terial diversity of disposition in their representatives
towards the different ranks and conditions in society.
And though an intimate intercourse under the same
government will promote a gradual assimilation in
some of these respects, yet there are causes, as well
physical as moral, which may, in a greater or less
degree, permanently nourish different propensities
and inclinations in this respect. But the circum-
stance which will be likely to have the greatest in-
fluence in the matter, will be the dissimilar modes of
constituting the several component parts of the gov-
ernment. The House of Representatives being to
be elected immediately by the people, the Senate by
the State legislatures, the President by electors
chosen for that purpose by the people, there would

The Federalist 113

be little probability of a common interest to cement
these different branches in a predilection for any
particular class of electors.

As to the Senate, it is impossible that any regula-
tion of " time and manner," which is all that is pro-
posed to be submitted to the national government
in respect to that body, can affect the spirit which
will direct the choice of its members. The collective
sense of the State legislatures can never be influ-
enced by extraneous circumstances of that sort; a
consideration which alone ought to satisfy us that
the discrimination apprehended would never be at-
tempted. For what inducement could the Senate
have to concur in a preference in which itself would
not be included? Or to what purpose would it be
established, in reference to one branch of the legis-
lature, if it could not be extended to the other. The
composition of the one would in this case counteract
that of the other. And we can never suppose that
it would embrace the appointments to the Senate,
unless we can at the same time suppose the voluntary
cooperation of the State legislatures. If we make
the latter supposition, it then becomes immaterial
where the power in question is placed — whether in
their hands or in those of the Union.

But what is to be the object of this capricious par-
tiality in the national councils ? Is it to be exercised
in a discrimination between the different kinds of
property, or between the different degrees of pro-
perty? Will it lean in favor of the landed interest,
or the moneyed interest, or the mercantile interest,
or the manufacturing interest? Or, to speak in the

VOIm xu.— 8

114 Alexander Hamilton

fashionable language of the adversaries to the Con-
stitution, will it court the elevation of '' the wealthy
and the well-bom," to the exclusion and debasement
of all the rest of the society?

If this partiality is to be exerted in favor of those
who are concerned in any particular description of
industry or property, I presume it will readily be ad-
mitted, that the competition for it will lie between
landed men and merchants. And I scruple not to
affirm, that it is infinitely less likely that either of
them should gain an ascendant in the national
councils, than that the one or the other of them
should predominate in all the local councils. The
inference will be, that a conduct tending to give an
undue preference to either is much less to be dreaded
from the former than from the latter.

The several States are in various degrees addicted
to agriculture and commerce. In most, if not all of
them, agriculture is predominant. In a few of them,
however, commerce nearly divides its empire, and in
most of them has a considerable share of influence.
In proportion as either prevails, it will be conveyed
into the national representation; and for the very
reason, that this will be an emanation from a greater
variety of interests, and in much more various pro-
portions, than are to be found in any single State,
it will be much less apt to espouse either of them
with a decided partiality, than the representation of
any single State.

In a country consisting chiefly of the cultivators
of land, where the rules of an equal representation
obtain, the landed interest must, upon the whole,

The Federalist 1 1 5

preponderate in the government. As long as this
interest prevails in most of the State legislatures, so
long it must maintain a correspondent superiority
in the national Senate, which will generally be a
faithful copy of the majorities of those assemblies.
It cannot therefore be presumed, that a sacrifice of
the landed to the mercantile class will ever be a
favorite object of this branch of the federal legisla-
ture. In applying thus particularly to the Senate a
general observation suggested by the situation of
the country, I am governed by the consideration,
that the credulous votaries of State power cannot,
upon their own principles, suspect, that the State
legislatures would be warped from their duty by any
external influence. But in reality the same situa-
tion must have the same effect, in the primitive
composition at least of the federal House of Repre-
sentatives : an improper bias towards the mercantile
class is as little to be expected from this quarter as
from the other.

In order, perhaps, to give countenance to the ob-
jection at any rate, it may be asked, is there not
danger of an opposite bias in the national govern-
ment, which may dispose it to endeavor to secure a
monopoly of the federal administration to the landed
class? As there is little likelihood that the supposi-
tion of such a bias will have any terrors for those who
would be immediately injured by it, a labored an-
swer to this question will be dispensed with. It
will be sufficient to remark, first, that for the reasons
elsewhere assigned, it is less likely that any decided
partiality should prevail in the councils of the Union

ii6 Alexander Hamilton

than in those of any of its members. Secondly, that
there would be no temptation to violate the Con-
stitution in favor of the landed class, because that
class would, in the natural course of things, enjoy as
great a preponderancy as itself could desire. And
thirdly, that men accustomed to investigate the
sources of public prosperity upon a large scale, must
be too well convinced of the utility of commerce, to
be inclined to inflict upon it so deep a wound as
would result from the entire exclusion of those who
would best understand its interest from a share in
the management of them. The importance of com-
merce, in the view of revenue alone, must effectually
guard it against the enmity of a body which would
be continually importuned in its favor, by the urgent
calls of public necessity.

I the rather consult brevity in discussing the prob-
ability of a preference founded upon discrimina-
tion between the different kinds of industry and
property, because, as far as I understand the mean-
ing of the objectors, they contemplate a discrimina-
tion of another kind. They appear to have in view,
as the objects of the preference with which they en-
deavor to alarm us, those whom they designate by
the description of "the wealthy and the well-born."
These, it seems, are to be exalted to an odious pre-
eminence over the rest of their fellow-citizens. At
one time, however, their elevation is to be a necessary
consequence of the smallness of the representative
body ; at another time it is to be effected by depriving
the people at large of the opportunity of exercising
their right of suffrage in the choice of that body.

The Federalist 117

But upon what principle is the discrimination of
the places of election to be made, in order to answer
the purpose of the meditated preference? Are ''the
wealthy and the well-born," as they are called, con-
fined to particular spots in the several States ? Have
they, by some miraculous instinct or foresight, set
apart in each of them a common place of residence?
Are they only to be met with in the towns or cities?
Or are they, on the contrary, scattered over the
face of the country as avarice or chance may have
happened to cast their own lot or that of their prede-
cessors? If the latter is the case, (as every intelli-
gent man knows it to be,') is it not evident that the
policy of confining the places of election to particular
districts would be as subversive of its own aim as it
would be exceptionable on every other account?
The truth is, that there is no method of securing to
the rich the preference apprehended, but by pre-
scribing qualifications of property either for those
who may elect or be elected. But this forms no
part of the power to be conferred upon the national
government. Its authority would be expressly re-
stricted to the regulation of the times, the places, the
manner of elections. The qualifications of the per-
sons who may choose or be chosen, as has been re-
marked upon other occasions, are defined and fixed
in the Constitution, and are unalterable by the
legislature.

Let it, however, be admitted, for argument sake,
that the expedient suggested might be successful;
and let it at the same time be equally taken for

^ Particularly in the Southern States and in this State. — Publius.

ii8 Alexander Hamilton

granted that all the scruples which a sense of duty
or an apprehension of the danger of the experiment
might inspire, were overcome in the breasts of the
national rulers, still I imagine it will hardly be pre-
tended that they could ever hope to carry such an
enterprise into execution without the aid of a mili-
tary force sufficient to subdue the resistance of the
great body of the people. The improbability of the
existence of a force equal to that object has been dis-
cussed and demonstrated in different parts of these
papers; but that the futility of the objection under
consideration may appear in the strongest light, it
shall be conceded for a moment that such a force
might exist, and the national government shall be
supposed to be in the actual possession of it. What
will be the conclusion? With a disposition to in-
vade the essential rights of the community, and with
the means of gratifying that disposition, is it pre-
sumable that the persons who were actuated by it
would amuse themselves in the ridiculous task of
fabricating election laws for securing a preference to
a favorite class of men ? Would they not be likely to
prefer a conduct better adapted to their own imme-
diate aggrandizement? Would they not rather
boldly resolve to perpetuate themselves in office by
one decisive act of usurpation, than to trust to
precarious expedients which, in spite of all the pre-
cautions that might accompany them, might termi-
nate in the dismission, disgrace, and ruin of their
authors ? Would they not fear that citizens, not less
tenacious than conscious of their rights, would flock
from the remote extremes of their respective States

The Federalist 119

to the places of election, to overthrow their tyrants,
and to substitute men who would be disposed to
avenge the violated majesty of the people?

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, February 26, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The more candid opposers of the provision re-
specting elections, contained in the plan of the con-
vention, when pressed in argument, will sometimes
concede the propriety of that provision; with this
qualification, however, that it ought to have been
accompanied with a declaration, that all elections
should be had in the counties where the electors
resided. This, say they, was a necessary precaution
against an abuse of the power. A declaration of this
nature would certainly have been harmless; so far
as it would have had the effect of quieting apprehen-
sions, it might not have been undesirable. But it
would, in fact, have afforded little or no additional
security against the danger apprehended; and the
want of it will never be considered, by an impartial
and judicious examiner, as a serious, still less as an
insuperable, objection to the plan. The different
views taken of the subject in the two preceding
papers must be sufficient to satisfy all dispassionate
and discerning men, that if the public liberty should
ever be the victim of the ambition of the national

I20 Alexander Hamilton

rulers, the power under examination, at least, will be
guiltless of the sacrifice.

If those who are inclined to consult their jealousy
only, would exercise it in a careful inspection of the
several State constitutions, they would find little
less room for disquietude and alarm, from the lati-
tude which most of them allow in respect to elec-
tions, than from the latitude which is proposed to
be allowed to the national government in the same
respect. A review of their situation, in this par-
ticular, would tend greatly to remove any ill im-
pressions which may remain in regard to this matter.
But as that view would lead into long and tedious
details, I shall content myself with the single exam-
ple of the State in which I write. The constitution
of New York makes no other provision for locality
of elections, than that the members of the Assembly
shall be elected in the counties; those of the Senate,
in the great districts into which the State is or may
be divided : these at present are four in number, and
comprehend each from two to six counties. It may
readily be perceived that it would not be more diffi-
cult to the legislature of New York to defeat the
suffrages of the citizens of New York, by confining
elections to particular places, than for the legislature
of the United States to defeat the suffrages of the
citizens of the Union, by the like expedient. Suppose,
for instance, the city of Albany was to be appointed
the sole place of election for the county and district
of which it is a part, would not the inhabitants of
that city speedily become the only electors of the
members both of the Senate and Assembly for that

The Federalist 121

county and district? Can we imagine that the
electors who reside in the remote subdivisions of the
counties of Albany, Saratoga, Cambridge, etc., or in
any part of the county of Montgomery, would take
the trouble to come to the city of Albany, to give
their votes for members of the Assembly or Senate,
sooner than they would repair to the city of New
York, to participate in the choice of the members of
the federal House of Representatives? The alarm-
ing indifference discoverable in the exercise of so in-
valuable a privilege under the existing laws, which
afford every facility to it, furnishes a ready answer
to this question. And, abstracted from any experi-
ence on the subject, we can be at no loss to determine,
that when the place of election is at an inconvenient
distance from the elector, the effect upon his conduct
will be the same whether that distance be twenty
miles or twenty thousand miles. Hence it must
appear, that objections to the particular modifica-
tion of the federal power of regulating elections will,
in substance, apply with equal force to the modifica-
tion of the like power in the constitution of this
State; and for this reason it will be impossible to
acquit the one, and to condemn the other. A similar
comparison would lead to the same conclusion in re-
spect to the constitutions of most of the other States.
If it should be said that defects in the State con-
stitutions furnish no apology for those which are to
be found in the plan proposed, I answer, that as the
former have never been thought chargeable with in-
attention to the security of liberty, where the im-
putations thrown on the latter can be shown to be

122 Alexander Hamilton

applicable to them also, the presumption is that
they are rather the cavilling refinements of a prede-
termined opposition, than the well-founded infer-
ences of a candid research after truth. To those who
are disposed to consider, as innocent omissions in the
State constitutions, what they regard as unpardon-
able blemishes in the plan of the convention, nothing
can be said; or at most, they can only be asked to
assign some substantial reason why the representa-
tives of the people in a single State should be more
impregnable to the lust of power, or other sinister
motives, than the representatives of the people of
the United States? If they cannot do this, they
ought at least to prove to us that it is easier to sub-
vert the liberties of three millions of people, with the
advantage of local governments to head their oppo-
sition, than of two hundred thousand people who
are destitute of that advanatge. And in relation
to the point immediately under consideration, they
ought to convince us that it is less probable that a
predominant faction in a single State should, in
order to maintain its superiority, incline to a prefer-
ence of a particular class of electors, than that a
similar spirit should take possession of the repre-
sentatives of thirteen States, spread over a vast
region, and in several respects distinguishable from
each other by a diversity of local circumstances,
prejudices, and interests.

Hitherto my observations have only aimed at a vin-
dication of the provision in question, on the ground
of theoretic propriety, on that of the danger of
placing the power elsewhere, and on that of the safety

The Federalist 123

of placing it in the manner proposed. But there
remains to be mentioned a positive advantage which
will result from this disposition, and which could not
as well have been obtained from any other : I allude
to the circumstance of uniformity in the time of
elections for the federal House of Representatives.
It is more than possible that this uniformity may be
found by experience to be of great importance to the
public welfare, both as a security against the per-
petuation of the same spirit in the body, and as a
cure for the diseases of faction. If each State may
choose its own time of election, it is possible there
may be at least as many different periods as there
are months in the year. The times of election in
the several States, as they are now established for
local purposes, vary between extremes as wide as
March and November. The consequence of this
diversity would be that there could never happen a
total dissolution or renovation of the; body at one
time. If an improper spirit of any kind should
happen to prevail in it, that spirit would be apt to
infuse itself into the new members, as they come
forward in succession. The mass would be likely to
remain nearly the same, assimilating constantly to
itself its gradual accretions. There is a contagion in
example which few men have sufficient force of mind
to resist. I am inclined to think that treble the
duration in office, with the condition of a total dis-
solution of the body at the same time, might be less
formidable to liberty than one third of that duration
subject to gradual and successive alterations.

Uniformity in the time of elections seems not less

124 Alexander Hamilton

requisite for executing the idea of a regular rotation
in the Senate, and for conveniently assembling the
legislature at a stated period in each year.

It may be asked, Why, then, could not a time have
been fixed in the Constitution ? As the most zealous
t adversaries of the plan of the convention in this
State are, in general, not less zealous admirers of the
constitution of the State, the question may be re-
torted, and it may be asked, Why was not a time
for the like purpose fixed in the constitution of this
State? No better answer can be given than that
it was a matter which might safely be entrusted to
legislative discretion; and that if a time had been
appointed, it might, upon experiment, have been
found less convenient than some other time. The
same answer may be given to the question put on
the other side. And it may be added that the sup-
posed danger of a gradual change being merely specu-
lative, it would have been hardly advisable upon
that speculation to establish, as a fundamental point,
what would deprive several States of the convenience
of having the elections for their own governments
and for the national government at the same epochs.

PUBLIUS.

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXII

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Having examined the constitution of the House
of Representatives, and answered such of the

The Federalist 125

objections against it as seemed to merit notice, I
enter next on the examination of the Senate.

The heads into which this member of the govern-
ment may be considered are: I. The quaHfications of
senators; II. The appointment of them by the State
legislatures; III. The equality of representation in
the Senate; IV. The number of senators, and the
term for which they are to be elected ; V. The powers
vested in the Senate.

I. The qualifications proposed for senators, as dis-
tinguished from those of representatives, consist in
a more advanced age and a longer period of citizen-
ship. A senator must be thirty years of age at least ;
as a representative must be twenty-five. And the
former must have been a citizen nine years ; as seven
years are required for the latter. The propriety of
these distinctions is explained by the nature of the
senatorial trust, which, requiring greater extent of in-
formation and stability of character, requires at the
same tim^ that the senator should have reached a
period of life most likely to supply these advantages ;
and which, participating immediately in transac-
tions with foreign nations, ought to be exercised by
none who are not thoroughly weaned from the pre-
possessions and habits incident to foreign birth and
education. The term of nine years appears to be a
prudent mediocrity between a total exclusion of
adopted citizens, whose merits and talents may
claim a share in the public confidence, and an indis-
criminate and hasty admission of them, which might
create a channel for foreign influence on the national
councils.

126 Alexander Hamilton

II. It is equally unnecessary to dilate on the ap-
pointment of senators by the State legislatures.
Among the various modes which might have been
devised for constituting this branch of the govern-
ment, that which has been proposed by the conven-
tion is probably the most congenial with the public
opinion. It is recommended by the double advan-
tage of favoring a select appointment, and of giving
to the State governments such an agency in the
formation of the federal government as must secure
the authority of the former, and may form a con-
venient link between the two systems.

III. The equality of representation in the Senate
is another point, which, being evidently the result
of compromise between the opposite pretensions of
the large and the small States, does not call for much
discussion. If indeed it be right, that among a peo-
ple thoroughly incorporated into one nation, every
district ought to have a proportional share in the
government, and that among independent and sover-
eign States, bound together by a simple league, the
parties, however unequal in size, ought to have an
equal share in the common councils, it does not ap-
pear to be without some reason that in a compound
republic, partaking both of the national and federal
character, the government ought to be founded on
a mixture of the principles of proportional and
equal representation. But it is superfluous to try,
by the standard of theory, a part of the Constitution
which is allowed on all hands to be the result, not of
theory, but ''of a spirit of amity, and that mutual
deference and concession which the peculiarity of

The Federalist 127

our political situation rendered indispensable." A
common government, with powers equal to its ob-
jects, is called for by the voice, and still more loudly
by the political situation, of America. A govern-
ment founded on principles more consonant to the
wishes of the larger States, is not likely to be ob-
tained from the smaller States. The only option,
then, for the former, lies between the proposed gov-
ernment and a government still more objectionable.
Under this alternative, the advice of prudence must
be to embrace the lesser evil ; and, instead of indulg-
ing a fruitless anticipation of the possible mischiefs
which may ensue, to contemplate rather the advan-
tageous consequences which may qualify the sacrifice.

In this spirit it may be remarked, that the equal
vote allowed to each State is at once a constitutional
recognition of the portion of sovereignty remaining
in the individual States, and an instrument for
preserving that residuary sovereignty. So far the
equality ought to be no less acceptable to the large
than to the small States; since they are not less
solicitous to guard, by every possible expedient,
against an improper consolidation of the States into
one simple republic.

Another advantage accruing from this ingredient
in the constitution of the Senate is, the additional
impediment it must prove against improper acts of
legislation. No law or resolution can now be passed
without the concurrence, first, of a majority of the
people, and then, of a majority of the States.
It must be acknowledged that this complicated
check on legislation may in some instances be

128 Alexander Hamilton

injurious as well as beneficial ; and that the peculiar
defence which it involves in favor of the smaller
States, would be more rational, if any interests com-
mon to them, and distinct from those of the other
States, would otherwise be exposed to peculiar
danger. But as the larger States will always be able,
by their power over the supplies, to defeat unreason-
able exertions of this prerogative of the lesser States,
and as the facility and excess of law-making seem to
be the diseases to which our governments are most
liable, it is not impossible that this part of the Con-
stitution may be more convenient in practice than
it appears to many in contemplation.

IV. The number of senators, and the duration of
their appointment, come next to be considered. In
order to form an accurate judgment on both these
points, it will be proper to inquire into the purposes
which, are to be answered by a senate ; and in order
to ascertain these, it will be necessary to review the
inconveniences which a republic must suffer from
the want of such an institution.

First. It is a misfortune incident to republican
government, though in a less degree than to other
governments, that those who administer it may for-
get their obligations to their constituents, and prove
unfaithful to their important trust. In this point
of view, a senate, as a second branch of the legislative
assembly, distinct from, and dividing the power with,
a first, must be in all cases a salutary check on the
government. It doubles the security to the people,
by requiring the concurrence of two distinct bodies
in schemes of usurpation or perfidy, where the am-

The Federalist 129

bition or corruption of one would otherwise be suffi-
cient. This is a precaution founded on such clear
principles, and now so well understood in the United
States, that it would be more than superfluous to
enlarge on it. I will barely remark, that as the
improbability of sinister combinations will be in pro-
portion to the dissimilarity in the genius of the two
bodies, it must be politic to distinguish them from
each other by every circumstance which will consist
with a due harmony in all proper measures, and with
the genuine principles of republican government.

Secondly. The necessity of a senate is not less
indicated by the propensity of all single and numer-
ous assemblies to yield to the impulse of sudden and
violent passions, and to be seduced by factious
leaders into intemperate and pernicious resolutions.
Examples on this subject might be cited without
number; and from proceedings within the United
States, as well as from the history of other nations.
But a position that will not be contradicted, need not
be proved. All that need be remarked is, that a
body which is to correct this infirmity ought itself to
be free from it, and consequently ought to be less
numerous It ought, moreover, to possess great firm-
ness, and consequently ought to hold its authority
by a tenure of considerable duration.

Thirdly. Another defect to be supplied by a senate
lies in a want of due acquaintance with the objects
and principles of legislation. It is not possible that
an assembly of men called for the most part from
pursuits of a private nature, continued in appoint-
ment for a short time, and led by no permanent

VOL. XII. — 9.

130 Alexander Hamilton

motive to devote the intervals of public occupation
to a study of the laws, the affairs, and the compre-
hensive interests of their country, should, if left
wholly to themselves, escape a variety of important
errors in the exercise of their legislative trust. It
may be affirmed, on the best grounds, that no small
share of the present embarrassments of America is
to be charged on the blunders of our governments;
and that these have proceeded from the heads
rather than the hearts of most of the authors of
them. What indeed are all the repealing, explaining,
and amending laws, which fill and disgrace our
voluminous codes, but so many monuments of de-
ficient wisdom; so many impeachments exhibited by
each succeeding against each preceding session; so
many admonitions to the people, of the value of
those aids which may be expected from a well-con-
stituted senate?

A good government implies two things: first,
fidelity to the object of government, which is the
happiness of the people; secondly, a knowledge of
the means by which that object can be best attained.
Some governments are deficient in both these quali-
ties; most governments are deficient in the first. I
scruple not to assert, that in American governments
too little attention has been paid to the last. The
federal Constitution avoids this error; and what
merits particular notice, it provides for the last in a
mode which increases the security for the first.

Fourthly. The mutability in the public councils
arising from a rapid succession of new members,
however qualified they may be, points out, in the

The Federalist 131

strongest manner, the necessity of some stable insti-
tution in the government. Every new election in
the States is found to change one half of the repre-
sentatives. From this change of men must proceed
a change of opinions ; and from a change of opinions,
a change of measures. But a continual change even
of good measures is inconsistent with every rule of
prudence and every prospect of success. The re-
mark is verified in private life, and becomes more
just, as well as more important, in national trans-
actions.

To trace the mischievous effects of a mutable
government, would fill a volume. I will hint a few
only, each of which will be perceived to be a source
of innumerable others.

In the first place, it forfeits the respect and con-
fidence of other nations, and all the advantages con-
nected with the national character. An individual
who is observed to be inconstant to his plans, or per-
haps to carry on his affairs without any plan at all, is
marked at once, by all prudent people, as a speedy
victim to his own unsteadiness and folly. His more
friendly neighbors may pity him, but all will decline
to connect their fortunes with his ; and not a few will
seize the opportunity of making their fortunes out of
his. One nation is to another what one individual is
to another; with this melancholy distinction per-
haps, that the former, with fewer of the benevolent
emotions than the latter, are under fewer restraints
also from taking undue advantage from the indis-
cretions of each other. Every nation, consequently,
whose affairs betray a want of wisdom and stability,

132 Alexander Hamilton

may calculate on every loss which can be sustained
from the more systematic policy of their wiser
neighbors. But the best instruction on this subject
is unhappily conveyed to America by the example of
her own situation. She finds that she is held in no
respect by her friends ; that she is the derision of her
enemies ; and that she is a prey to every nation which
has an interest in speculating on her fluctuating
councils and embarrassed affairs.

The internal effects of a mutable policy are still
more calamitous. It poisons the blessing of liberty
itself. It will be of little avail to the people, that the
laws are made by men of their own choice, if the laws
be so voluminous that they cannot be read, or so in-
coherent that they cannot be understood ; if they be
repealed or revised before they are promulgated, or
undergo such incessant changes that no man, who
knows what the law is to-day, can guess what it will
be to-morrow. Law is defined to be a rule of action ;
but how can that be a rule, which is little known, and
less fixed?

Another effect of public instability is the un-
reasonable advantage it gives to the sagacious, the
enterprising, and the moneyed few over the indus-
trious and uninformed mass of the people. Every
new regulation concerning commerce or revenue, or
in any manner affecting the value of the different
species of property, presents a new harvest to those
who watch the change, and can trace its conse-
quences; a harvest, reared not by themselves, but
by the toils and cares of the great body of their
fellow-citizens. This is a state of things in which it

The Federalist 133

may be said with some truth that laws are made for
the few, not for the many.

In another point of view, great injury results from
an unstable government. The want of confidence in
the public councils damps every useful undertaking,
the success and profit of which may depend on a con-
tinuance of existing arrangements. What prudent
merchant will hazard his fortimes in any new branch
of commerce when he knows not but that his plans
may be rendered unlawful before they can be exe-
cuted? What farmer or manufacturer will lay him-
self out for the encouragement given to any particular
cultivation or establishment, when he can have no
assurance that his preparatory labors and advances
will not render him a victim to an inconstant govern-
ment ? In a word, no great improvement or laudable
enterprise can go forward which requires the auspices
of a steady system of national policy.

But the most deplorable effect of all is that dimi-
nution of attachment and reverence which steals into
the hearts of the people, towards a political system
which betrays so many marks of infirmity, and dis-
appoints so many of their flattering hopes. No
government, any more than an individual, will long
be respected without being truly respectable ; nor be
truly respectable, without possessing a certain portion
of order and stability.

PUBLIUS.

134 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal
WHE FEDERALIST. No. LXIII

(HAMILTON OR MADISON)

To the People of the State of New York:

A fifth desideratum, illustrating the utility of a
senate, is the want of a due sense of national charac-
ter. Without a select and stable member of the
government, the esteem of foreign powers will not
only be forfeited by an unenlightened and variable
policy, proceeding from the causes already mentioned,
but the national councils will not possess that sensi-
bility to the opinion of the world, which is perhaps
not less necessary in order to merit, than it is to
obtain, its respect and confidence.

An attention to the judgment of other nations is
important to every government for two reasons : the
one is, that, independently of the merits of any
particular plan or measure, it is desirable, on various
accounts, that it should appear to other nations as
the offspring of a wise and honorable policy; the
second is, that in doubtful cases, particularly where
the national councils may be warped by some strong
passion or momentary interest, the presumed or
known opinion of the impartial world may be the best
guide that can be followed. What has not America
lost by her want of character with foreign nations;
and how many errors and follies would she not have
avoided, if the justice and propriety of her measures
had, in every instance, been previously tried by the
light in which they would probably appear to the
unbiased part of mankind ?

The Federalist 135

Yet however requisite a sense of national character
may be, it is evident that it can never be sufficiently
possessed by a numerous and changeable body. It
can only be found in a number so small that a sensible
degree of the praise and blame of public measures
may be the portion of each individual; or in an
assembly so durably invested with public trust, that
the pride and consequence of its members may be
sensibly incorporated with the reputation and pro-
sperity of the community. The half-yearly repre-
sentatives of Rhode Island would probably have been
little affected in their deliberations on the iniquitous
measures of that State, by arguments drawn from the
light in which such measures would be viewed by
foreign nations, or even by the sister States ; whilst it
can scarcely be doubted that if the concurrence of a
select and stable body had been necessary, a regard
to national character alone would have prevented the
calamities under which that misguided people is now
laboring.

I add, as a sixth defect, the want, in some import-
ant cases, of a due responsibility in the government
to the people, arising from that frequency of elections
which in other cases produces this responsibility.
This remark will, perhaps, appear not only new, but
paradoxical. It must nevertheless be acknowledged,
when explained, to be as undeniable as it is important.

Responsibility, in order to be reasonable, must be
limited to objects within the power of the responsible
party, and in order to be effectual, must relate to
operations of that power, of which a ready and proper
judgment can be formed by the constituents. The

136 Alexander Hamilton

objects of government may be divided into two gen-
eral classes: the one depending on measures which
have singly an immediate and sensible operation ; the
other depending on a succession of well-chosen and
well-connected measures, which have a gradual and
perhaps imobserved operation. The importance of
the latter description to the collective and perm anent
welfare of every country, needs no explanation. And
yet it is evident that an assembly elected for so short
a term as to be unable to provide more than one or
two links in a chain of measures, on which the general
welfare may essentially depend, ought not to be
answerable for the final restilt, any more than a
steward or tenant, engaged for one year, could be
justly made to answer for places or improvements
which could not be accomplished in less than half a
dozen years. Nor is it possible for the people to
estimate the share of influence which their annual
assemblies may respectively have on events resulting
from the mixed transactions of several years. It is
sufficiently difficult to preserve a personal responsi-
bility in the members of a numerous body, for such
acts of the body as have an immediate, detached, and
palpable operation on its constituents.

The proper remedy for this defect must be an
additional body in the legislative department, which,
having sufficient permanency to provide for such
objects as require a continued attention, and a train
of measures, may be justly and effectually answerable
for the attainment of those objects.

Thus far I have considered the circumstances
which point out the necessity of a well-constructed

The Federalist 137

Senate only as they relate to the representatives of
the people. To a people as little blinded by prejudice
or corrupted by flattery as those whom I address, I
shall not scruple to add, that such an institution may
be sometimes necessary as a defence to the people
against their own temporary errors and delusions.
As the cool and deliberate sense of the community
ought, in all governments, and actually will, in all
free governments, ultimately prevail over the views
of its rulers; so there are particular moments in
public affairs when the people, stimulated by some
irregular passion, or some illicit advantage, or misled
by the artful misrepresentations of interested men,
may call for measures which they themselves will
afterwards be the most ready to lament and con-
demn. In these critical moments, how salutary will
be the interference of some temperate and respectable
body of citizens, in order to check the misguided
career, and to suspend the blow meditated by the
people against themselves, until reason, justice, and
truth can regain their authority over the public
mind ? What bitter anguish would not the people of
Athens have often escaped if their government had
contained so provident a safeguard against the
tyranny of their own passions? Popular liberty
might then have escaped the indelible reproach of
decreeing to the same citizens the hemlock on one
day and statues on the next.

It may be suggested, that a people spread over an
extensive region cannot, like the crowded inhabitants
of a small district, be subject to the infection of vio-
lent passions, or to the danger of combining in pursuit

138 The Federalist

of unjust measures. I am far from denying that this
is a distinction of pecuHar importance. I have, on
the contrary, endeavored in a former paper to show,
that it is one of the principal recommendations of a
confederated republic. At the same time, this ad-
vantage ought not to be considered as superseding
the use of auxiliary precautions. It may even be
remarked, that the same extended situation, which
will exempt the people of America from some of the
dangers incident to lesser republics, will expose them
to the inconveniency of remaining for a longer time
under the influence of those misrepresentations which
the combined industry of interested men may suc-
ceed in distributing among them.

It adds no small weight to all these considerations,
to recollect that history informs us of no long-lived
republic which had not a senate. Sparta, Rome, and
Carthage are, in fact, the only states to whom that
character can be applied. In each of the two first
there was a senate for life. The constitution of the
senate in the last is less known. Circumstantial evi-
dence makes it probable that it was not different in
this particular from the two others. It is at least
certain, that it had some quality or other which ren-
dered it an anchor against popular fluctuation; and
that a smaller council, drawn out of the senate, was
appointed not only for life, but filled up vacancies
itself. These examples, though as unfit for the imi-
tation, as they are repugnant to the genius, of
America, are, notwithstanding, when compared with
the fugitive and turbulent existence of other ancient
republics, very instructive proofs of the necessity of

The Federalist 139

some institution that will blend stability with liberty.
I am not unaware of the circumstances which dis-
tinguish the American from other popular govern-
ments, as well ancient as modem; and which render
extreme circumspection necessary, in reasoning from
the one case to the other. But after allowing due
weight to this consideration, it may still be main-
tained, that there are many points of similitude which
render these examples not unworthy of our attention.
Many of the defects, as we have seen, which can only
be supplied by a senatorial institution, are common
to a numerous assembly frequently elected by the
people, and to the people themselves. There are
others peculiar to the former, which require the con-
trol of such an institution. The people can never
wilfully betray their own interests; but they may
possibly be betrayed by the representatives of the
people; and the danger will be evidently greater
where the whole legislative trust is lodged in the
hands of one body of men, than where the concur-
rence of separate and dissimilar bodies is required in
every public act.

The difference most relied on, between the Ameri-
can and other republics, consists in the principle of
representation; which is the pivot on which the
former move, and which is supposed to have been
unknown to the latter, or at least to the ancient part
of them. The use which has been made of this differ-
ence, in reasonings contained in former papers, will
have shown that I am disposed neither to deny its
existence nor to undervalue its importance. I feel
the less restraint, therefore, in observing that the

HO Alexander Hamilton

position concerning the ignorance of the ancient gov-
ernments on the subject of representation, is by no
means precisely true in the latitude commonly given
to it. Without entering into a disquisition which
here would be misplaced, I will refer to a few known
facts, in support of what I advance.

In the most pure democracies of Greece, many of
the executive functions were performed, not by the
people themselves, but by officers elected by the
people, and representing the people in their executive
capacity. ,

Prior to the reform of Solon, Athens was governed
by nine Archons, annually elected by the people at
large. The degree of power delegated to them seems
to be left in great obscurity. Subsequent to that
period, we find an assembly, first of four, and after-
wards of six hundred members, annually elected by
the people; and partially representing them in their
legislative capacity, since they were not only asso-
ciated with the people in the function of making laws,
but had the exclusive right of originating legislative
propositions to the people. The senate of Carthage,
also, whatever might be its power, or the duration of
its appointment, appears to have been elective by the
suffrages of the people. Similar instances might be
traced in most, if not all the popular governments of
antiquity.

Lastly, in Sparta we meet with the Ephori, and in
Rome with the Tribunes; two bodies, small indeed
in numbers, but annually elected by the whole body of
the people, and considered as the representatives of the
people, almost in their plenipotentiary capacity. The

The Federalist 141

Cosmi of Crete were also annually elected by the people,
and have been considered by some authors as an
institution analogous to those of Sparta and Rome,
with this difference only, that in the election of that
representative body the right of suffrage was com-
municated to a part only of the people.

From these facts, to which many others might be
added, it is clear that the principle of representation
was neither unknown to the ancients nor wholly
overlooked in their political constitutions. The true
distinction between these and the American govern-
ments, lies in the total exclusion of the people, in their
collective capacity, from any share in the latter, and
not in the total exclusion of the representatives of the
people from the administration of the former. The
distinction, however, thus qualified, must be ad-
mitted to leave a most advantageous superiority in
favor of the United States. But to insure to this
advantage its full effect, we must be careful not to
separate it from the other advantage, of an extensive
territory. For it cannot be believed, that any form
of representative government could have succeeded
within the narrow limits occupied by the democracies
of Greece.

In answer to all these arguments, suggested by
reason, illustrated by examples, and enforced by our
own experience, the jealous adversary of the Consti-
tution will probably content himself with repeating,
that a senate appointed not immediately by the peo-
ple, and for the term of six years, must gradually
acquire a dangerous preeminence in the government,
and finally transform it into a tyrannical aristocracy.

142 Alexander Hamilton

To this general answer, the general reply ought to
be sufficient, that liberty may be endangered by the
abuses of liberty as well as by the abuses of power;
that there are numerous instances of the former as
well as of the latter ; and that the former, rather than
the latter, are apparently most to be apprehended by
the United States. But a more particular reply may
be given.

Before such a revolution can be effected, the
Senate, it is to be observed, must in the first place
corrupt itself; must next corrupt the State legisla-
tures; must then corrupt the House of Representa-
tives; and must finally corrupt the people at large.
It is evident that the Senate must be first corrupted
before it can attempt an establishment of tyranny.
Without corrupting the State legislatures, it cannot
prosecute the attempt, because the periodical change
of members would otherwise regenerate the whole
body. Without exerting the means of corruption
with equal success on the House of Representatives,
the opposition of that coequal branch of the govern-
ment would inevitably defeat the attempt; and
without corrupting the people themselves, a succes-
sion of new representatives would speedily restore all
things to their pristine order. Is there any man who
can seriously persuade himself that the proposed
Senate can, by any possible means within the com-
pass of human address, arrive at the object of a law-
less ambition, through all these obstructions ?

If reason condemns the suspicion, the same sen-
tence is pronounced by experience. The constitution
of Maryland furnishes the most apposite example.

The Federalist i43

The Senate of that State is elected, as the federal
Senate will be, indirectly by the people, and for a
term less by one year only than the federal Senate.
It is distinguished, also, by the remarkable preroga-
tive of filling up its own vacancies within the term
of its appointment, and, at the same time, is not
under the control of any such rotation as is provided
for the federal Senate. There are some other lesser
distinctions, which would expose the former to color-
able objections, that do not lie against the latter.
If the federal Senate, therefore, really contained the
danger which has been so loudly proclaimed, some
symptoms at least of a like danger ought by this time
to have been betrayed by the Senate of Maryland,
but no such symptoms have appeared. On the con-
trary, the jealousies at first entertained by men of
the same description with those who view with terror
the correspondent part of the federal Constitution,
have been gradually extinguished by the progress of
the experiment; and the Maryland constitution is
daily deriving, from the salutary operation of this
part of it, a reputation in which it will probably not
be rivalled by that of any State in the Union.

But if anything could silence the jealousies on this
subject, it ought to be the British example. The
Senate there, instead of being elected for a term of six
years, and of being unconfined to particular families
or fortunes, is an hereditary assembly of opulent
nobles. The House of Representatives, instead of
being elected for two years, and by the whole body
of the people, is elected for seven years, and, in very
great proportion, by a very small proportion of the

144 Alexander Hamilton

people. Here, unquestionably, ought to be seen in
full display the aristocratic usurpations and tyranny
which are at some future period to be exemplified in
the United States. Unfortunately, however, for the
anti-federal argument, the British history informs us
that this hereditary assembly has not been able to
defend itself against the continual encroachments of
the House of Representatives ; and that it no sooner
lost the support of the monarch, than it was actually
crushed by the weight of the popular branch.

As far as antiquity can instruct us on this subject,
its examples support the reasoning which we have
employed. In Sparta, the Ephori, the annual repre-
sentatives of the people, were found an overmatch
for the senate for life, continually gained on its au-
thority and finally drew all power into their own
hands. The Tribunes of Rome, who were the repre-
sentatives of the people, prevailed, ?t is well known,
in almost every contest with the senate for life, and
m the end gained the most complete triumph over it.
The fact is the more remarkable, as unanimity was
required in every act of the Tribunes, even after their
number was augmented to ten. It proves the irre-
sistible force possessed by that branch of a free
government, which has the people on its side. To
these examples might be added that of Carthage,
whose senate, according to the testimony of Polybius,
instead of drawing all power into its vortex, had, at
the commencement of the second Punic War, lost
almost the whole of its original portion.

Besides the conclusive evidence resulting from this
assemblage of facts, that the federal Senate will

The Federalist i45

never be able to transform itself, by gradual usurpa-
tions, into an independent and aristocratic body, we
are warranted in believing, that if such a revolution
should ever happen from causes which the foresight
of man cannot guard against, the House of Repre-
sentatives, with the people on their side, will at all
times be able to bring back the Constitution to its
primitive form and principles. Against the force of
the immediate representatives of the people, nothing
will be able to maintain even the constitutional
authority of the Senate, but such a display of en-
lightened policy, and attachment to the public good,
as will divide with that branch of the legislature the
affections and support of the entire body of the people
themselves.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, March 7, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXIV

(JAY)

To the People of the State of New York:

It is a just and not a new observation, that enemies
to particular persons, and opponents to particular
measures, seldom confine their censures to such
things only in either as are worthy of blame. Unless
on this principle, it is difficult to explain the motives
of their conduct, who condemn the proposed Consti-
tution in the aggregate and treat with severity some
of the most unexceptionable articles in it.

The second section gives power to the President,
''hy and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to

VOL. XII.— 10.

146 Alexander Hamilton

make treaties, provided two thirds of the sena-
tors PRESENT CONCUR.'*

The power of making treaties is an important one,
especially as it relates to war, peace, and commerce;
and it should not be delegated but in such a mode,
and with such precautions, as will afford the highest
security that it will be exercised by men the best
qualified for the purpose, and in the manner most
conducive to the public good. The convention ap-
pears to have been attentive to both these points:
they have directed the President to be chosen by
select bodies of electors, to be deputed by the people
for that express purpose ; and they have committed
the appointment of senators to the State legislatures.
This mode has, in such cases, vastly the advantage of
elections by the people in their collective capacity,
where the activity of party zeal, taking advantage
of the supineness, the ignorance, and the hopes and
fears of the unwary and interested, often places men
in office by the votes of a small proportion of the
electors.

As the select assemblies for choosing the President,
as well as the State legislatures who appoint the
senators, will in general be composed of the most
enlightened and respectable citizens, there is reason
to presume that their attention and their votes will
be directed to those men only who have become the
most distinguished by their abilities and virtue, and
in whom the people perceive just grounds for con-
fidence. The Constitution manifests very particular
attention to this object. By excluding men under
thirty-five from the first office, and those under

The Federalist 147

thirty from the second, it confines the electors to men
of whom the people have had time to form a judg-
ment, and with respect to whom they will not be
liable to be deceived by those brilliant appearances
of genius and patriotism, which, like transient
meteors, sometimes mislead as well as dazzle. If
the observation be well founded, that wise kings will
always be served by able ministers, it is fair to argue,
that as an assembly of select electors possess, in a
greater degree than kings, the means of extensive
and accurate information relative to men and
characters, so will their appointments bear at least
equal marks of discretion and discernment. The
inference which naturally results from these con-
siderations is this, that the President and senators so
chosen will always be of the number of those who
best understand our national interests, whether con-
sidered in relation to the several States or to foreign
nations, who are best able to promote those interests,
and whose reputation for integrity inspires and
merits confidence. With such men the power of
making treaties may be safely lodged.

Although the absolute necessity of system, in the
conduct of any business, is universally known and
acknowledged, yet the high importance of it in
national affairs has not yet become sufficiently im-
pressed on the public mind. They who wish to com-
mit the power under consideration to a popular
assembly, composed of members constantly coming
and going in quick succession, seem not to recollect
that such a body must necessarily be inadequate to
the attainment of those great objects, which require

148 Alexander Hamilton

to be steadily contemplated in all their relations and
circumstances, and which can only be approached
and achieved by measures which not only talents,
but also exact information, and often much time, are
necessary to concert and to execute. It was wise,
therefore, in the convention to provide, not only that
the power of making treaties should be committed
to able and honest men, but also that they should
continue in place a sufficient time to become per-
fectly acquainted with our national concerns, and to
form and introduce a system for the management of
them. The duration prescribed is such as will give
them an opportunity of greatly extending their
political information, and of rendering their accumu-
lating experience more and more beneficial to their
country. Nor has the convention discovered less
prudence in providing for the frequent elections of
senators in such a way as to obviate the incon-
venience of periodically transferring those great
affairs entirely to new men; for by leaving a con-
siderable residue of the old ones in place, uniformity
and order, as well as a constant succession of official
information, will be preserved.

There are a few who will not admit that the affairs
of trade and navigation should be regulated by a
system cautiously formed and steadily pursued ; and
that both our treaties and our laws should corre-
spond with and be made to promote it. It is of much
consequence that this correspondence and con-
formity be carefully maintained; and they who
assent to the truth of this position will see and con-
fess that it is well provided for by making concur-

The Federalist 149

rence of the Senate necessary both to treaties and
to laws

It seldom happens in the negotiation of treaties,
of whatever nature, but that perfect secrecy and
immediate despatch are sometimes requisite. There
are cases where the most useful intelligence may be
obtained, if the persons possessing it can be relieved
from apprehensions of discovery. Those apprehen-
sions will operate on those persons whether they are
actuated by mercenary or friendly motives; and
there doubtless are many of both descriptions, who
would rely on the secrecy of the President, but who
would not confide in that of the Senate, and still less
in that of a large popular Assembly. The convention
have done well, therefore, in so disposing of the power
of making treaties, that although the President must,
in forming them, act by the advice and consent of
the Senate, yet he will be able to manage the business
of intelligence in such a manner as prudence may
suggest.

They who have turned their attention to the affairs
of men, must have perceived that there are tides in
them; tides very irregular in their duration, strength,
and direction, and seldom found to run twice exactly
in the same manner or measure. To discern and to
profit by these tides in national affairs is the business
of those who preside over them ; and they who have
had much experience on this head inform us, that
there frequently are occasions when days, nay, even
when hours, are precious. The loss of a battle, the
death of a prince, the removal of a minister, or other
circumstances intervening to change the present

150 Alexander Hamilton

posture and aspect of affairs, may turn the most
favorable tide into a course opposite to our wishes.
As in the field, so in the cabinet, there are moments
to be seized as they pass, and they who preside in
either should be left in capacity to improve them.
So often and so essentially have we heretofore suf-
fered from the want of secrecy and despatch, that
the Constitution would have been inexcusably de-
fective, if no attention had been paid to those objects.
Those matters which in negotiations usually require
the most secrecy and the most despatch, are those
preparatory and auxiliary measures which are not
otherwise important in a national view, than as they
tend to facilitate the attainment of the objects of the
negotiation. For these, the President will find no
difficulty to provide; and should any circumstance
occur which requires the advice and consent of the
Senate, he may at any time convene them. Thus we
see that the Constitution provides that our negotia-
tions for treaties shall have every advantage which
can be derived from talents, information, integrity,
and deliberate investigations, on the one hand, and
from secrecy and despatch, on the other.

But to this plan, as to most others that have ever
appeared, objections are contrived and urged.

Some are displeased with it, not on account of any
errors or defects in it, but because, as the treaties,
when made, are to have the force of laws, they
should be made only by men invested with legislative
authority. These gentlemen seem not to consider
that the judgments of our courts, and the commis-
sions constitutionally given by our governor, are as

The Federalist 151

valid and as binding on all persons whom they con-
cern, as the laws passed by our legislature. All
constitutional acts of power, whether in the execu-
tive or in the judicial department, have as much
legal validity and obligation as if they proceeded
from the legislature; and therefore, whatever name
be given to the power of making treaties, or however
obligatory they may be when made, certain it is,
that the people may, with much propriety, commit
the power to a distinct body from the legislature, the
executive, or the judicial. It surely does not follow,
that because they have given the power of making
laws to the legislature, that therefore they should
likewise give them power to do every other act of
sovereignty by which the citizens are to be bound
and affected.

Others, though content that treaties should be
made in the mode proposed, are averse to their being
the supreme laws of the land. They insist, and pro-
fess to believe, that treaties like acts of assembly,
should be repealable at pleasure. This idea seems
to be new and peculiar to this country, but new
errors, as well as new truths, often appear. These
gentlemen would do well to reflect that a treaty is
only another name for a bargain, and that it would
be impossible to find a nation who would make any
bargain with us, which should be binding on them
absolutely, but on us only so long and so far as we
may think proper to be bound by it. They who
make laws may, without doubt, amend or repeal
them; and it will not be disputed that they who
make treaties may alter or cancel them ; but still let

152 Alexander Hamilton

us not forget that treaties are made, not by only one
of the contracting parties, but by both; and conse-
quently, that as the consent of both was essential to
their formation at first, so must it ever afterwards be
to alter or cancel them. The proposed Constitution,
therefore, has not in the least extended the obligation
of treaties. They are just as binding, and just as far
beyond the lawful reach of legislative acts now, as
they will be at any future period, or under any form
of government.

However useful jealousy may be in republics, yet
when like bile in the natural, it abounds too much
in the body politic, the eyes of both become very
liable to be deceived by the delusive appearances
which that malady casts on surrounding objects.
From this cause, probably, proceed the fears and
apprehensions of some, that the President and
Senate may make treaties without an equal eye to
the interests of all the States. Others suspect that
two thirds will oppress the remaining third, and ask
whether those gentlemen are made sufficiently re-
sponsible for their conduct; whether, if they act
corruptly, they can be punished; and if they make
disadvantageous treaties, how are we to get rid of
those treaties?

As all the States are equally represented in the
Senate, and by men the most able and the most
willing to promote the interests of their constituents,
they will all have an equal degree of influence in that
body, especially while they continue to be careful in
appointing proper persons, and to insist on their
punctual attendance. In proportion as the United

The Federalist 153

States assume a national form and a national char-
acter, so will the good of the whole be more and more
an object of attention, and the government must be
a weak one indeed, if it should forget that the good
of the whole can only be promoted by advancing the
good of each of the parts or members which compose
the whole. It will not be in the power of the Presi-
dent and Senate to make any treaties by which they
and their families and estates will not be equally
bound and affected with the rest of the community;
and, having no private interests distinct from that
of the nation, they will be under no temptations to
neglect the latter.

As to corruption, the case is not supposable. He
must either have been very unfortunate in his in-
tercourse with the world, or possess a heart very
susceptible of such impressions, who can think it
probable that the President and two thirds of the Sen-
ate will ever be capable of such unworthy conduct.
The idea is too gross and too invidious to be enter-
tained. But in such a case, if it should ever happen,
the treaty so obtained from us would, like all other
fraudulent contracts, be null and void by the law of
nations.

With respect to their responsibility, it is difficult
to conceive how it could be increased. Every con-
sideration that can influence the human mind, such
as honor, oaths, reputations, conscience, the love
of country, and family affections and attachments,
afford security for their fidelity. In short, as the
Constitution has taken the utmost care that they
shall be men of talents and integrity, we have reason

154 Alexander Hamilton

to be persuaded that the treaties they make will be
as advantageous as, all circumstances considered,
could be made ; and so far as the fear of punishment
and disgrace can operate, that motive to good be-
havior is amply afforded by the article on the subject
of impeachments.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, March 7, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The remaining powers which the plan of the con-
vention allots to the Senate, in a distinct capacity,
are comprised in their participation with the execu-
tive in the appointment to offices, and in their judicial
character as a court for the trial of impeachments.
As in the business of appointments the executive
will be the principal agent, the provisions relating to
it will most properly be discussed in the examination
of that department. We will, therefore, conclude
this head with a view of the judicial character of the
Senate.

A well-constituted court for the trial of impeach-
ments is an object not more to be desired than diffi-
cult to be obtained in a government wholly elective.
The subjects of its jurisdiction are those offences
which proceed from the misconduct of public men,
or, in other words, from the abuse or violation of
some public trust. They are of a nature which may
with peculiar propriety be denominated political,

The Federalist 155

as they relate chiefly to injuries done immediately
to the society itself. The prosecution of them, for
this reason, will seldom fail to agitate the passions of
the whole community, and to divide it into parties
more or less friendly or inimical to the accused. In
many cases it will connect itself with the preexisting
factions, and will enlist all their animosities, par-
tialities, influence, and interest on one side or on the
other; and in such cases there will always be the
greatest danger that the decision will be regulated
more by the comparative strength of parties, than
by the real demonstrations of innocence or guilt.

The delicacy and magnitude of a trust which so
deeply concerns the political reputation and exist-
ence of every man engaged in the administration of
public affairs, speak for themselves. The difficulty
of placing it rightly, in a government resting en-
tirely on the basis of periodical elections, will as
readily be perceived, when it is considered that the
most conspicuous characters in it will, from that cir-
cumstance, be too often the leaders or the tools of the
most cunning or the most numerous faction, and on
this account, can hardly be expected to possess the
requisite neutrality towards those whose conduct
may be the subject of scrutiny.

The convention, it appear^, thought the Senate
the most fit depositary of this important trust.
Those who can best discern the intrinsic difficulty
of the thing, will be least hasty in condemning that
opinion, and will be most inclined to allow due
weight to the arguments which may be supposed to
have produced it.

156 Alexander Hamilton

What, it may be asked, is the true spirit of the in-
stitution itself? Is it not designed as a method of
NATIONAL INQUEST into the conduct of public men?
If this be the design of it, who can so properly be the
inquisitors for the nation as the representatives of
the nation themselves? It is not disputed that the
power of originating the inquiry, or, in other words,
of preferring the impeachment, ought to be lodged
in the hands of one branch of the legislative body.
Will not the reasons which indicate the propriety of
this arrangement strongly plead for an admission of
the other branch of that body to a share of the in-
quiry? The model from which the idea of this in-
stitution has been borrowed, pointed out that course
to the convention. In Great Britain it is the pro-
vince of the House of Commons to prefer the im-
peachment, and of the House of Lords to decide upon
it. Several of the State constitutions have followed
the example. As well the latter, as the former, seem
to have regarded the practice of impeachments as a
bridle in the hands of the legislative body upon the
executive servants of the government. Is not this
the true light in which it ought to be regarded ?

Where else than in the Senate could have been
found a tribunal sufficiently dignified, or suffi-
ciently independent? What other body would be
likely to feel confidence enough in its own situation^
to preserve, unawed and uninfluenced, the necessary
impartiality between an individual accused, and the
representatives of the people, his accusers?

Could the Supreme Court have been relied upon
as answering this description? It is much to be

The Federalist 157

doubted, whether the members of that tribunal
would at all times be endowed with so eminent a
portion of fortitude, as would be called for in the
execution of so difficult a task; and it is still more
to be doubted, whether they would possess the de-
gree of credit and authority, which might, on certain
occasions, be indispensable towards reconciling the
people to a decision that should happen to clash
with an accusation brought by their immediate re-
presentatives. A deficiency in the first, would be
fatal to the accused; in the last, dangerous to the
public tranquillity. The hazard, in both these re-
spects, could only be avoided, if at all, by rendering
that tribunal more numerous than would consist
with a reasonable attention to economy. The
necessity of a numerous court for the trial of im-
peachments, is equally dictated by the nature of the
proceeding. This can never be tied down by such
strict rules, either in the delineation of the offence
by the prosecutors, or in the construction of it by
the judges, as in common cases serve to limit the
discretion of courts in favor of personal security.
There will be no jury to stand between the judges
who are to pronounce the sentence of the law, and
the party who is to receive or suffer it. The awful
discretion which a court of impeachments must
necessarily have, to doom to honor or to infamy the
most confidential and the most distinguished char-
acters of the community, forbids the commitment
of the trust to a small number of persons.

These considerations seem alone sufficient to au-
thorize a conclusion, that the Supreme Court would

158 Alexander Hamilton

have been an improper substitute for the Senate, as
a court of impeachments. There remains a further
consideration, which will not a little strengthen this
conclusion. It is this: The punishment which may
be the consequence of conviction upon impeach-
ment, is not to terminate the chastisement of the
offender. After having been sentenced to a per-
petual ostracism from the esteem and confidence,
and honors and emoluments of his country, he will
still be liable to prosecution and punishment in the
ordinary course of law. Would it be proper that
the persons who had disposed of his fame, and his
most valuable rights as a citizen, in one trial, should,
in another trial, for the same offence, be also the
disposers of his life and his fortune? Would there
not be the greatest reason to apprehend, that error,
in the first sentence, would be the parent of error in
the second sentence? That the strong bias of one
decision would be apt to overrule the influence of
any new lights which might be brought to vary the
complexion of another decision? Those who know
any thing of human nature, will not hesitate to
answer these questions in the affirmative; and will
be at no loss to perceive, that by making the same
persons judges in both cases, those who might happen
to be the objects of prosecution would, in a great
measure, be deprived of the double security intended
them by a double trial. The loss of life and estate
would often be virtually included in a sentence which,
in its terms, imported nothing more than dismission
from a present, and disqualification for a future,
office. It may be said, that the intervention of a

The Federalist 159

jury, in the second instance, would obviate the
danger. But juries are frequently influenced by the
opinions of judges. They are sometimes induced to
find special verdicts, which refer the main question
to the decision of the court. Who would be willing
to stake his life and his estate upon the verdict of a
jury acting under the auspices of judges who had
predetermined his guilt ?

Would it have been an improvement of the plan,
to have united the Supreme Court with the Senate,
in the formation of the court of impeachments?
This union would certainly have been attended with
several advantages; but would they not have been
overbalanced by the signal disadvantage, already
stated, arising from the agency of the same judges in
the double prosecution to which the offender would
be liable? To a certain extent, the benefits of that
union will be obtained from making the chief justice
of the Supreme Court the president of the court of
impeachments, as is proposed to be done in the plan
of the convention; while the inconveniences of an
entire incorporation of the former into the latter will
be substantially avoided. This was perhaps the
prudent mean. I forbear to remark upon the addi-
tional pretext for clamor against the judiciary, which
so considerable an augmentg^tion of its authority
would have afforded.

Would it have been desirable to have composed the
court for the trial of impeachments, of persons wholly
distinct from the other departments of the govern-
ment ? There are weighty arguments, as well against,
as in favor of, such a plan. To some minds it will

i6o Alexander Hamilton

not appear a trivial objection, that it could tend to
increase the complexity of the political machine, and
to add a new spring to the government, the utility
of which would at best be questionable. But an ob-
jection which will not be thought by any unworthy
of attention, is this: a court formed upon such a
plan, would either be attended with a heavy expense,
or might in practice be subject to a variety of casu-
alities and inconveniences. It must either consist of
permanent officers, stationary at the seat of govern-
ment, and of course entitled to fixed and regular
stipends, or of certain officers of the State govern-
ments, to be called upon whenever an impeachment
was actually depending. It will not be easy to
imagine any third mode materially different, which
could rationally be proposed. As the court, for
reasons already given, ought to be numerous, the
first scheme will be reprobated by every man who
can compare the extent of the public wants with
the means of supplying them. The second will be
espoused with caution by those who will seriously
consider the difficulty of collecting men dispersed
over the whole Union; the injury to the innocent,
from the procrastinated determination of the charges
which might be brought against them; the advan-
tage to the guilty, from the opportunities which
delay would afford to intrigue and corruption; and
in some cases the detriment to the State, from the
prolonged inaction of men whose firm and faithful
execution of their duty might have exposed them to
the persecution of an intemperate or designing ma-
jority in the House of Representatives. Though this

The Federalist i6i

latter supposition may seem harsh, and might not be
Hkely often to be verified, yet it ought not to be forgot-
ten that the demon of faction will, at certain seasons,
extend his sceptre over all numerous bodies of men.
But though one or the other of the substitutes
which have been examined, or some other that might
be devised, should be thought preferable to the plan,
in this respect, reported by the convention, it will not
follow that the Constitution ought for this reason to
be rejected. If mankind were to resolve to agree in
no institution of government, until every part of it
had been adjusted to the most exact standard of
perfection, society would soon become a general
scene of anarchy, and the world a desert. Where is
the standard of perfection to be found? Who will
undertake to unite the discordant opinions of a whole
community, in the same judgment of it; and to
prevail upon one conceited projector to renounce his
infallible criterion for the fallible criterion of his more
conceited neighbor f To answer the purpose of the
adversaries of the Constitution, they ought to prove,
not merely that particular provisions in it are not the
best which might have been imagined, but that the
plan upon the whole is bad and pernicious.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, March ii, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXVI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

A review of the principal objections that have ap-
peared against the proposed court for the trial of

VOL. XII.— II.

1 62 Alexander Hamilton

impeachments, will not improbably eradicate the
remains of any unfavorable impressions which may
still exist in regard to this matter.

The first of these objections is, that the provision
in question confounds legislative and judiciary
authorities in the same body, in violation of that
important and well-established maxim which requires
a separation between the different departments of
power. The true meaning of this maxim has been
discussed and ascertained in another place, and has
been shown to be entirely compatible with a partial
intermixture of those departments for special pur-
poses, preserving them, in the main, distinct and
unconnected. This partial intermixture is even, in
some cases, not only proper but necessary to the
mutual defence of the several members of the govern-
ment against each other. An absolute or qualified
negative in the executive upon the acts of the legis-
lative body, is admitted, by the ablest adepts in
political science, to be an indispensable barrier
against the encroachments of the latter upon the
former. And it may, perhaps, with no less reason
be contended, that the powers relating to impeach-
ments are, as before intimated, an essential check in
the hands of that body upon the encroachments of
the executive. The division of them between the two
branches of the legislature, assigning to one the right
of accusing, to the other the right of judging, avoids
the inconvenience of making the same persons both
accusers and judges ; and guards against the danger
of persecution, from the pre valency of a factious
spirit in either of those branches. As the concur-

The Federalist 163

rence of two thirds of the Senate will be requisite to a
condemnation, the security to innocence, from this
additional circumstance, will be as complete as itself
can desire.

It is curious to observe, with what vehemence this
part of the plan is assailed, on the principle here
taken notice of, by men who profess to admire, with-
out exception, the constitution of this State; while
that constitution makes the Senate, together with the
chancellor and judges of the Supreme Court, not
only a court of impeachments, but the highest
judicatory in the State, in all causes, civil and
criminal. The proportion, in point of numbers, of
the chancellor and judges to the senators, is so in-
considerable, that the judiciary authority of New
York, in the last resort, may, with truth, be said to
reside in its Senate. If the plan of the convention be,
in this respect, chargeable with a departure from the
celebrated maxim which has been so often mentioned,
and seems to be so little understood, how much more
culpable must be the constitution of New York ? ^

A second objection to the Senate, as a court of
impeachments, is, that it contributes to an undue
accumulation of power in that body, tending to give
to the government a countenance too aristocratic.
The Senate, it is observed, is to have concurrent
authority with the Executive in the formation of
treaties and in the appointment to oiBces: if, say the
objectors, to these prerogatives is added that of

^ In that of New Jersey, also, the final judiciary authority is in a
branch of the legislature. In New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Penn-
sylvania, and South Carolina, one branch of the legislature is the
court for the trial of impeachments. — Publius.

164 Alexander Hamilton

deciding in all cases of impeachment, it will give a
decided predominancy to senatorial influence. To
an objection so little precise in itself, it is not easy to
find a very precise answer. Where is the measure or
criterion to which we can appeal, for determining
what will give the Senate too much, too little, or
barely the proper degree of influence? Will it not
be more safe, as well as more simple, to dismiss such
vague and uncertain calculations, to examine each
power by itself, and to decide, on general principles,
where it may be deposited with most advantage and
least inconvenience?

If we take this course, it will lead to a more in-
telligible, if not to a more certain result. The dis-
position of the power of making treaties, which has
obtained in the plan of the convention, will, then, if
I mistake not, appear to be fully justified by the
considerations stated in a former number, and by
others which will occur under the next head of our
inquiries. The expediency of the junction of the
Senate with the Executive, in the power of appoint-
ing to offices, will, I trust, be placed in a light not
less satisfactory, in the disquisitions under the same
head. And I flatter myself the observations in my
last paper must have gone no inconsiderable way
towards proving that it was not easy, if practicable,
to find a more fit receptacle for the power of de-
termining impeachments, than that which has been
chosen. If this be truly the case, the hypothetical
dread of the too great weight of the Senate ought to
be discarded from our reasonings.

But this hypothesis, such as it is, has already been

The Federalist 165

refuted in the remarks apphed to the duration in
office prescribed for the senators. It was by them
shown, as well on the credit of historical examples,
as from the reason of the thing, that the most popular
branch of every government, partaking of the re-
publican genius, by being generally the favorite of
the people, will be as generally a full match, if not an
overmatch, for every other member of the Govern-
ment.

But independent of this most active and operative
principle, to secure the equilibrium of the national
House of Representatives, the plan of the convention
has provided in its favor several important counter-
poises to the additional authorities to be conferred
upon the Senate. The exclusive privilege of origin-
ating money bills will belong to the House of Repre-
sentatives. The same house will possess the sole
right of instituting impeachments : is not this a com-
plete counterbalance to that of determining them?
The same house will be the umpire in all elections of
the President, which do not unite the suffrages of a
majority of the whole number of electors; a case
which it cannot be doubted will sometimes, if not
frequently, happen. The constant possibility of the
thing must be a fruitful source of influence to that
body. The more it is contemplated, the more im-
portant will appear this ultimate though contingent
power, "of deciding the competitions of the most
illustrious citizens of the Union, for the first office in
it. It would not perhaps be rash to predict, that as
a mean of influence it will be found to outweigh all
the peculiar attributes of the Senate.

1 66 Alexander Hamilton

A third objection to the Senate as a court of im-
peachments is drawn from the agency they are to
have in the appointments to office. It is imagined
that they would be too indulgent judges of the con-
duct of men, in whose official creation they had
participated. The principle of this objection would
condemn a practice, which is to be seen in all the
State governments, if not in all the governments with
which we are acquainted: I mean that of rendering
those who hold offices during pleasure, dependent on
the pleasure of those who appoint them. With
equal plausibility might it be alleged in this case,
that the favoritism of the latter would always be an
asylum for the misbehavior of the former. But that
practice, in contradiction to this principle, proceeds
upon the presumption, that the responsibility of
those who appoint, for the fitness and competency of
the persons on whom they bestow their choice, and
the interest they will have in the respectable and
prosperous administration of affairs, will inspire a
sufficient disposition to dismiss from a share in it
all such who, by their conduct, shall have proved
themselves unworthy of the confidence reposed in
them. Though facts may not always correspond
with this presumption, yet if it be, in the main, just,
it must destroy the supposition that the Senate, who
will merely sanction the choice of the Executive,
should feel a bias, towards the objects of that'' choice,
strong enough to blind them to the evidences of
guilt so extraordinary, as to have induced the repre-
sentatives of the nation to become its accusers.

If any further arguments were necessary to evince

The Federalist 167

the improbabiHty of such a bias, it might be found in
the nature of the agency of the Senate in the business
of appointments.

It will be the office of the President to nominate^
and, with the advice and consent of the Senate, to
appoint. There will, of course, be no exertion of
choice on the part of the Senate. They may defeat
one choice of the Executive, and oblige him to make
another; but they cannot themselves choose — they
can only ratify or reject the choice of the President.
They might even entertain a preference to some other
person, at the very moment they were assenting to
the one proposed, because there might be no positive
ground of opposition to him ; and they could not be
sure, if they withheld their assent, that the subse-
quent nomination would fall upon their own favorite,
or upon any other person in their estimation more
meritorious than the one rejected. Thus it could
hardly happen, that the majority of the Senate would
feel any other complacency towards the object of an
appointment than such as the appearances of merit
might inspire, and the proofs of the want of it destroy.

A fourth objection to the Senate, in the capacity of
a court of impeachments, is derived from its union
with the Executive in the power of making treaties.
This, it has been said, would constitute the senators
their own judges, in every case of a corrupt or perfid-
ious execution of that trust. After having com-
bined with the Executive in betraying the interests
of the nation in a ruinous treaty, what prospect, it is
asked, would there be of their being made to suffer
the punishment they would deserve, when they were

1 68 Alexander Hamilton

themselves to decide upon the accusation brought
against them for the treachery of which they have
been guilty?

This objection has been circulated with more
earnestness and with greater show of reason than
any other which has appeared against this part of the
plan ; and yet I am deceived if it does not rest upon
an erroneous foundation.

The security essentially intended by the Constitu-
tion against corruption and treachery in the forma-
tion of treaties, is to be sought for in the numbers and
characters of those who are to make them. The
JOINT AGENCY of the Chief Magistrate of the Union,
and of two thirds of the members of a body selected
by the collective wisdom of the legislatures of the
several States, is designed to be the pledge for the
fidelity of the national councils in this particular.
The convention might with propriety have meditated
the punishment of the Executive, for a deviation
from the instructions of the Senate, or a want of
integrity in the conduct of the negotiations com-
mitted to him ; they might also have had in view the
punishment of a few leading individuals in the
Senate, who should have prostituted their influence
in that body as the mercenary instruments of foreign
corruption: but they could not, with more or with
equal propriety, have contemplated the impeach-
ment and punishment of two thirds of the Senate,
consenting to an improper treaty, than of a majority
of that or of the other branch of the national legisla-
ture, consenting to a pernicious or unconstitutional
law, — a principle which, I believe, has never been

The Federalist 169

admitted into any government. How, in fact, could
a majority in the House of Representatives impeach
themselves? Not better, it is evident, than two
thirds of the Senate might try themselves. And yet
what reason is there, that a majority of the House
of Representatives, sacrificing the interests of the
society by an unjust and tyrannical act of legislation,
should escape with impunity, more than two thirds
of the Senate, sacrificing the same interests in an
injurious treaty with a foreign power? The truth is,
that in all such cases it is essential to the freedom and
to the necessary independence of the deliberations of
the body, that the members of it should be exempt
from punishment for acts done in a collective
capacity; and the security to the society must de-
pend on the care which is taken to confide the trust
to proper hands, to make it their interest to execute
it with fidelity, and to make it as difficult as possible
for them to combine in any interest opposite to that
of the public good.

So far as might concern the misbehavior of the
Executive in perverting the instructions or contra-
vening the views of the Senate, we need not be appre-
hensive of the want of a disposition in that body to
punish the abuse of their confidence, or to vindicate
their own authority. We may thus far count upon
\heir pride, if not upon their virtue. And so far even
as might concern the corruption of leading members,
by those arts and influence the majority may have
been inveigled into measures odious to the com-
munity, if the proofs of that corruption should be
satisfactory, the usual propensity of human nature

170 Alexander Hamilton

will warrant us in concluding that there would be
commonly no defect of inclination in the body to
divert the public resentment from themselves by a
ready sacrifice of the authors of their mismanagement
and disgrace.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, March 11, 1788
^HE FEDERALIST. No. LXVII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The constitution of the executive department of
the proposed government, claims next our attention.

There is hardly any part of the system which could
have been attended with greater difficulty in the
arrangement of it than this; and there is, perhaps,
none which has been inveighed against with less can-
dor or criticised with less judgment.

Here the writers against the Constitution seem to
have taken pains to signalize their talent of mis-
representation. Calculating upon the aversion of the
people to monarchy, they have endeavored to enlist
all their jealousies and apprehensions in opposition to
the intended President of the United States; not
merely as the embryo, but as the full-grown progeny,
of that detested parent. To establish the pretended
affinity, they have not scrupled to draw resources
even from the regions of fiction. The authorities of
a magistrate, in a few instances greater, in some
instances less, than those of a governor of New York
have been magnified into more than royal preroga-

The Federalist 171

tives. He has been decorated with attributes su-
perior in dignity and splendor to those of a king of
Great Britain. He has been shown to us with the
diadem sparkling on his brow and the imperial
purple flowing m his train. He has been seated on
a throne surrounded with minions and mistresses,
giving audience to the envoys of foreign potentates,
in all the supercilious pomp of majesty. The images
of Asiatic despotism and voluptuousness have
scarcely been wanting to crown the exaggerated
scene. We have been taught to tremble at the
terrific visages of murdering janizaries, and to blush
at the unveiled mysteries of a future seraglio.

Attempts so extravagant as these to disfigure or,
it might rather be said, to metamorphose the object,
render it necessary to take an accurate view of its
real nature and form : in order as well to ascertain its
true aspect and genuine appearance, as to unmask
the disingenuity and expose the fallacy of the coun-
terfeit resemblances which have been so insidiously,
as well as industriously, propagated.

In the execution of this task, there is no man who
would not find it an arduous effort either to behold
with moderation, or to treat with seriousness, the
devices, not less weak than wicked, which have been
contrived to pervert the public opinion in relation to
the subject. They so far exceed the usual though
unjustifiable licences of party artifice, that even in a
disposition the most candid and tolerant, they must
force the sentiments which favor an indulgent con-
struction of the conduct of political adversaries to
give place to a voluntary and unreserved indignation.

172 Alexander Hamilton

It is impossible not to bestow the imputation of de-
liberate imposture and deception upon the gross pre-
tence of a similitude between a king of Great Britain
and a magistrate of the character marked out for that
of the President of the United States. It is still
more impossible to withhold that imputation from
the rash and barefaced expedients which have been
employed to give success to the attempted imposition.

In one instance, which I cite as a sample of the
general spirit, the temerity has proceeded so far as
to ascribe to the President of the United States a
power which by the instrument reported is expressly
allotted to the Executives of the individual States.
I mean the power of filling casual vacancies in the
Senate.

This bold experiment upon the discernment of his
countrymen has been hazarded by a writer who
(whatever may be his real merit) has had no incon-
siderable share in the applauses of his party ' ; and
who, upon this false and unfounded suggestion, has
built a series of observations equally false and un-
founded. Let him now be confronted with the
evidence of the fact, and let him, if he be able, justify
or extenuate the shameful outrage he has offered to
the dictates of truth and to the rules of fair dealing.

The second clause of the second section of the
second article empowers the President of the United
States ''to nominate, and by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, to appoint ambassadors,
other public ministers and consuls, judges of the
Supreme Court, and all other officers of United States

^ See Cato, No. V. — Publius.

The Federalist 173

whose appointments are not in the Constitution other-
wise provided for, and which shall he established by
law. ' ' Immediately after this clause follows another
in these words: '' The President shall have power to
fill up all vacancies that may happen during the recess
of the Senate, by granting commissions which shall
expire at the end of their next session.'' It is from this
last provision that the pretended power of the Presi-
dent to fill vacancies in the Senate has been deduced.
A slight attention to the connection of the clauses,
and to the obvious meaning of the terms, will satisfy
us that the deduction is not even colorable.

The first of these two clauses, it is clear, only pro-
vides a mode for appointing such officers, "whose
appointments are not otherwise provided for in the
Constitution, and which shall be established by law'';
of course it cannot extend to the appointments of
senators, whose appointments are otherwise provided
for in the Constitution,' and who are established by
the Constitution, and will not require a future estab-
lishment by law. This position will hardly be
contested.

The last of these two clauses, it is equally clear,
cannot be understood to comprehend the power of
filling vacancies in the Senate, for the following
reasons: — First. The relation in which that clause
stands to the other, which declares the general mode
of appointing officers of the United States, denotes
it to be nothing more than a supplement to the
other, for the purpose of establishing an aiixiliary
method of appointment, in cases to which the general

'Article i, section 3, clause i. — Publius.

174 Alexander Hamilton

method was inadequate. The ordinary power of
appointment is confined to the President and Senate
jointly y and can therefore only be exercised during the
session of the Senate; but as it would have been
improper to oblige this body to be continually in
session for the appointment of officers, and as
vacancies might happen in their recess, which it
might be necessary for the public service to fill with-
out delay, the succeeding clause is evidently intended
to authorize the President, singly, to make temporary
appointments '* during the recess of the Senate, by
granting commissions which shall expire at the end
of their next session." Secondly. If this clause is
to be considered as supplementary to the one which
precedes, the vacancies of which it speaks must be
construed to relate to the ''officers" described in the
preceding one; and this, we have seen, excludes from
its description the members of the Senate. Thirdly.
The time within which the power is to operate, '' dur-
ing the recess of the Senate," and the duration of the
appointments, "to the end of the next session" of
that body, conspire to elucidate the sense of the
provision, which, if it had been intended to compre-
hend senators, would naturally have referred the
temporary power of filling vacancies to the recess of
the State legislatures, who are to make the permanent
appointments, and not to the recess of the national
Senate, who are to have no concern in those appoint-
ments; and would have extended the duration in
office of the temporary senators to the next session of
the legislature of the State, in whose representation
the vacancies had happened, instead of making it to

The Federalist 175

expire at the end of the ensuing session of the national
Senate. The circumstances of the body authorized
to make the permanent appointments would, of
course, have governed the modification of a power
which related to the temporary appointments; and
as the national Senate is the body, whose situation is
alone contemplated in the clause upon which the
suggestion under examination has been founded, the
vacancies to which it alludes can only be deemed to
respect those officers in whose appointment that
body has a concurrent agency with the President.
But lastly, the first and second clauses of the third
section of the first article, not only obviate all possi-
bility of doubt, but destroy the pretext of miscon-
ception. The former provides, that '' the Senate of
the United States shall be composed of two Senators
from each State, chosen hy the legislature thereof for
six years ' ' ; and the latter directs, that, " If vacancies
in that body should happen by resignation or other-
wise, during the recess of the legislature of any State,
the Executive thereof may make temporary ap-
pointments until the next meeting of the legislature,
which shall then fill such vacancies." Here is an
express power given, in clear and unambiguous terms,
to the State Executives, to fill casual vacancies in
the Senate, by temporary appointments; which not
only invalidates the supposition, that the clause be-
fore considered could have been intended to confer
that power upon the President of the United States,
but proves that this supposition, destitute as it is
even of the merit of plausibility, must have originated
in an intention to deceive the people, too palpable

176 Alexander Hamilton

to be obscured by sophistry, too atrocious to be
palliated by hypocrisy.

I have taken the pains to select this instance of
misrepresentation, and to place it in a clear and
strong light, as an unequivocal proof of the unwar-
rantable arts which are practised to prevent a fair
and impartial judgment of the real merits of the
Constitution submitted to the consideration of the
people. Nor have I scrupled, in so flagrant a case,
to allow myself a severity of animadversion little con-
genial with the general spirit of these papers. I
hesitate not to submit it to the decision of any candid
and honest adversary of the proposed government,
whether language can furnish epithets of too much
asperity, for so shameless and so prostitute an at-
tempt to impose on the citizens of America.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, March 14, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXVIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The mode of appointment of the Chief Magistrate
of the United States is almost the only part of the
system, of any consequence, which has escaped
without severe censure, or which has received the
slightest mark of approbation from its opponents.
The most plausible of these, who has appeared in
print, has even deigned to admit that the election of
the President is pretty well guarded.* I venture

* Vide Federal Farmer. — Publius.

The Federalist i77

somewhat further, and hesitate not to affirm, that if
the manner of it be not perfect, it is at least excellent.
It unites in an eminent degree all the advantages,
the union of which was to be wished for.

It was desirable that the sense of the people should
operate in the choice of the person to whom so im-
portant a trust was to be confided. This end will be
answered by committing the right of making it, not
to any preestablished body, but to men chosen by
the people for the special purpose, and at the par-
ticular conjuncture.

It was equally desirable, that the immediate
election should be made by men most capable of
analyzing the qualities adapted to the station, and
acting under circumstances favorable to deliberation,
and to a judicious combination of all the reasons and
inducements which were proper to govern their
choice. A small number of persons, selected by
their fellow-citizens from the general mass, will be
most likely to possess the information and discern-
ment requisite to such complicated investigations.

It was also peculiarly desirable to afford as little
opportunity as possible to tumult and disorder.
This evil was not least to be dreaded in the election
of a magistrate, who was to have so important an
agency in the administration of the government as
the President of the United States. But the pre-
cautions which have been so happily concerted in the
system under consideration, promise an effectual
security against this mischief. The choice of several,
to form an intermediate body of electors, will be
much less apt to convulse the community with any

VOL. XII.— 13.

17^ Alexander Hamilton

extraordinary or violent movements, than the choice
of one who was himself to be the final object of the
public wishes. And as the electors, chosen in each
State, are to assemble and vote in the State in which
they are chosen, this detached and divided situation
will expose them much less to heats and ferments,
which might be communicated from them to the
people, than if they were all to be convened at one
time, in one place.

Nothing was more to be desired than that every
practicable obstacle should be opposed to cabal, in-
trigue, and corruption. These most deadly adver-
saries of republican government might naturally have
been expected to make their approaches from more
than one quarter, but chiefly from the desire in
foreign powers to gain an improper ascendant in our
councils. How could they better gratify this, than
by raising a creature of their own to the chief magis-
tracy of the Union? But the convention have
guarded against all danger of this sort, with the
most provident and judicious attention. They have
not made the appointment of the President to depend
on any preexisting bodies of men, who might be
tampered with beforehand to prostitute their votes;
but they have referred it in the first instance to an
immediate act of the people of America, to be exerted
in the choice of persons for the temporary and sole
purpose of making the appointment. And they have
excluded from eligibility to this trust, all those who
from situation might be suspected of too great devo-
tion to the President in office. No senator, repre-
sentative, or other person holding a place of trust or

The Federalist i79

profit under the United States, can be of the numbers
of the electors. Thus without corrupting the body
of the people, the immediate agents in the election
will at least enter upon the task free from any sinister
bias. Their transient existence, and their detached
situation, already taken notice of, afford a satisfac-
tory prospect of their continuing so, to the conclusion
of it. The business of corruption, when it is to em-
brace so considerable a number of men, requires time
as well as means. Nor would it be found easy sud-
denly to embark them, dispersed as they would be
over thirteen States, in any combinations founded
upon motives, which though they could not properly
be denominated corrupt, might yet be of a nature to
mislead them from their duty.

Another and no less important desideratum was,
that the Executive should be independent for his
continuance in office on all but the people them-
selves. He might otherwise be tempted to sacrifice
his duty to his complaisance for those whose favor
was necessary to the duration of his official conse-
quence. This advantage will also be secured, by
making his reelection to depend on a special body
of representatives, deputed by the society for the
single purpose of making the important choice.

All these advantages will happily combine in the
plan devised by the convention; which is, that the
people of each State shall choose a number of per-
sons as electors, equal to the number of senators and
representatives of such State in the national gov-
ernment, who shall assemble within the State, and
vote for some fit person as President. Their votes.

i8o Alexander Hamilton

thus given, are to be transmitted to the seat of the
national government, and the person who may hap-
pen to have a majority of the whole number of votes
will be the President. But as a majority of the
votes might not always happen to centre in one man,
and as it might be unsafe to permit less than a ma-
jority to be conclusive, it is provided that, in such a
contingency, the House of Representatives shall
select out of the candidates who shall have the five
highest number of votes, the man who in their
opinion may be best qualified for the office.

The process of election affords a moral certainty,
that the office of President will never fall to the lot
of any man who is not in an eminent degree endowed
with the requisite qualifications. Talents for low
intrigue, and the little arts of popularity, may alone
suffice to elevate a man to the first honors in a single
State ; but it will require other talents, and a differ-
ent kind of merit, to establish him in the esteem
and confidence of the whole Union, or of so consider-
able a portion of it as would be necessary to make
him a successful candidate for the distinguished
office of President of the United States. It will not
be too strong to say, that there will be a constant
probability of seeing the station filled by characters
preeminent for ability and virtue. And this will be
thought no inconsiderable recommendation of the
Constitution, by those who are able to estimate the
share which the executive in every government must
necessarily have in its good or ill administration.
Though we cannot acquiesce in the political heresy
of the poet who says:

The Federalist i8i

" For forms of government let fools contest-
That which is best administered is best, — "

yet we may safely pronounce, that the true test of a
good government is its aptitude and tendency to
produce a good administration.

The Vice-President is to be chosen in the same
manner with the President ; with this difference, that
the Senate is to do, in respect to the former, what
is to be done by the House of Representatives, in
respect to the latter.

The appointment of an extraordinary person, as
Vice-President, has been objected to as superfluous,
if not mischievous. It has been alleged, that it
would have been preferable to have authorized the
Senate to elect out of their own body an officer
answering that description. But two considera-
tions seem to justify the ideas of the convention in
this respect. One is, that to secure at all times the
possibility of a definite resolution of the body, it is
necessary that the President should have only a
casting vote. And to take the senator of any State
from his seat as senator, to place him in that of
President of the Senate, would be to exchange, in
regard to the State from which he came, a constant
for a contingent vote. The other consideration is,
that as the Vice-President may occasionally become
a substitute for the President, in the supreme execu-
tive magistracy, all the reasons which recommend
the mode of election prescribed for the one, apply
with great if not with equal force to the manner of
appointing the other. It is remarkable that in this,
as in most other instances, the objection which is

1 82 Alexander Hamilton

made would lie against the constitution of this
State. We have a Lieutenant-Governor, chosen by
the people at large, who presides in the Senate, and
is the constitutional substitute for the Governor, in
casualties similar to those which would authorize
the Vice-President to exercise the authorities and
discharge the duties of the President.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, March 14, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXIX

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

I proceed now to trace the real characters of the
proposed Executive, as they are marked out in the
plan of the convention. This will serve to place in
a strong light the unfairness of the representations
which have been made in regard to it.

The first thing which strikes our attention is, that
the executive authority, with few exceptions, is to
be vested in a single magistrate. This will scarcely,
however, be considered as a point upon which any
comparison can be grounded; for if, in this par-
ticular, there be a resemblance to the king of Great
Britain, there is not less a resemblance to the Grand
Seignior, to the khan of Tartary, to the Man of the
Seven Mountains, or to the governor of New York.

That magistrate is to be elected for four years ; and
is to be reeligible as often as the people of the United
States shall think him worthy of their confidence.
In these circumstances there is a total dissimilitude

The Federalist 183

between him and a king of Great Britain, who is an
hereditary monarch, possessing the crown as a patri-
mony descendible to his heirs forever; but there is a
close analogy between him and a governor of New
York, who is elected for three years, and is reeligible
without limitation or intermission. If we consider
how much less time would be requisite for establish-
ing a dangerous influence in a single State, than for
establishing a like influence throughout the United
States, we must conclude that a duration of four
years for the Chief Magistrate of the Union is a de-
gree of permanency far less to be dreaded in that
ofhce, than a duration of three years for a corre-
sponding ofhce in a single State.

The President of the United States would be
liable to be impeached, tried, and, upon conviction
of treason, bribery, or other high crimes or misde-
meanors, removed from ofhce; and would afterwards
be liable to prosecution and punishment in the ordi-
nary course of law. The person of the king of Great
Britain is sacred and inviolable; there is no con-
stitutional tribunal to which he is amenable; no
punishment to which he can be subjected without
involving the crisis of a national revolution. In this
delicate and important circumstance of personal
responsibility, the President of Confederated Amer-
ica would stand upon no better ground than a gov-
ernor of New York, and upon worse ground than the
governors of Maryland and Delaware.

The President of the United States is to have
power to return a bill, which shall have passed the
two branches of the legislature, for reconsideration;

184 Alexander Hamilton

and the bill so returned is to become a law, if, upon
that reconsideration, it be approved by two thirds of
both houses. The king of Great Britain, on his part,
has an absolute negative upon the acts of the two
houses of Parliament. The disuse of that power for
a considerable time past does not affect the reality
of its existence; and is to be ascribed wholly to the
crown's having found the means of substituting in-
fluence to authority, or the art of gaining a majority
in one or the other of the two houses, to the necessity
of exerting a prerogative which could seldom be
exerted without hazarding some degree of national
agitation. The qualified negative of the President
differs widely from this absolute negative of the
British sovereign; and tallies exactly with the re-
visionary authority of the council of revision of this
State, of which the governor is a constituent part.
In this respect the power of the President would
exceed that of the governor of New York, because
the former would possess, singly, what the latter
shares with the chancellor and judges; but it would
be precisely the same with that of the governor of
Massachusetts, whose constitution, as to this article,
seems to have been the original from which the con-
vention have copied.

The President is to be the " commander-in-chief of
the army and navy of the United States, and of the
militia of the several States, when called into the
actual service of the United States. He is to have
power to grant reprieves and pardons for offences
against the United States, except in cases of im-
peachment; to recommend to the consideration of

The Federalist 185

Congress such measures as he shall judge necessary
and expedient; to convene, on extraordinary occa-
sions, both houses of the legislature, or either of
them, and, in case of disagreement between them
with respect to the time of adjournment, to adjourn
them to such time as he shall think proper; to take
care that the laws be faithfully executed ; and to com-
mission all officers of the United States." In most
of these particulars, the power of the President will
resemble equally that of the king of Great Britain
and of the governor of New York. The most ma-
terial points of difference are these: — First. The
President will have only the occasional command of
such part of the militia of the nation as by legisla-
tive provision may be called into the actual service
of the Union. The king of Great Britain and the
governor of New York have at all times the entire
command of all the militia within their several juris-
dictions. In this article, therefore, the power of the
President would be inferior to that of either the
monarch or the governor. Secondly. The President
is to be commander-in-chief of the army and navy
of the United States. In this respect his authority
would be nominally the same with that of the king
of Great Britain, but in substance much inferior to
it. It would amount to nothing more than the su-
preme command and direction of the military and
naval forces, as first General and admiral of the
Confederacy; while that of the British king extends
to the declaring of war and to the raising and regu-
lating of fleets and armies, — all which, by the Con-
stitution under consideration, would appertain to the

1 86 Alexander Hamilton

legislature.' The governor of New York, on the
other hand, is by the constitution of the State vested
only with the command of its militia and navy.
But the constitutions of several of the States ex-
pressly declare their governors to be commanders-
in-chief, as well of the army as navy ; and it may well
be a question, v/hether those of New Hampshire and
Massachusetts, in particular, do not, in this instance,
confer larger powers upon their respective governors,
than could be claimed by a President of the United
States. Thirdly. The power of the President, in re-
spect to pardons, would extend to all cases, except
those of impeachment. The governor of New York
may pardon in all cases, even in those of impeach-
ment, except for treason and murder. Is not the
power of the governor, in this article, on a calculation
of political consequences, greater than that of the
President? All conspiracies and plots against the
government, which have not been matured into
actual treason, may be screened from punishment
of every kind, by the interposition of the prerogative

^ A writer in a Pennsylvania paper, tinder the signature of Tamony,
has asserted that the king of Great Britain owes his prerogative as
commander-in-chief to an annual mutiny bill. The truth is, on the
contrary, that his prerogative, in this respect, is immemorial, and was
only disputed, "contrary to all reason and precedent," as Blackstone,
vol. i., page 262, expresses it, by the Long Parliament of Charles I.;
but by the statute the 13th of Charles II., chap. 6, it was declared to
be in the king alone, for that the sole supreme government and com-
mand of the militia within his Majesty's realms and dominions, and
of all forces by sea and land, and of all forts and places of strength,
EVER WAS AND IS the Undoubted right of his Majesty and his royal
predecessors, kings and queens of England, and that both or either
house of Parliament cannot nor ought to pretend to the same. —

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 187

of pardoning. If a governor of New York, therefore,
should be at the head of any such conspiracy, until
the design had been ripened into actual hostility he
could insure his accomplices and adherents an entire
impunity. A President of the Union, on the other
hand, though he may even pardon treason, when
prosecuted in the ordinary course of law, could shel-
ter no offender, in any degree, from the effects of im-
peachment and conviction. Would not the prospect
of a total indemnity for all the preliminary steps be a
greater temptation to undertake and persevere in an
enterprise against the public liberty, than the mere
prospect of an exemption from death and confisca-
tion, if the final execution of the design, upon an
actual appeal to arms, should miscarry ? Would this
last expectation have any influence at all, when the
probability was computed, that the person who was
to afford that exemption might himself be involved
in the consequences of the measure, and might be
incapacitated by his agency in it from affording
the desired impunity ? The better to judge of this
matter, it will be necessary to recollect, that, by the
proposed Constitution, the offence of treason is lim-
ited '* to levying war upon the United States, and
adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and
comfort"; and that by the laws of New York it is
confined within similar bounds. Fourthly. The Presi-
dent can only adjourn the national legislature in the
single case of disagreement about the time of ad-
journment. The British monarch may prorogue or
even dissolve the Parliament. The governor of New
York may also prorogue the legislature of this State

i88 Alexander Hamilton

for a limited time; a power which, in certain situa-
tions, may be employed to very important purposes.
The President is to have power, with the advice
and consent of the Senate, to make treaties, pro-
vided two thirds of the senators present concur.

: The king of Great Britain is the sole and absolute re-
presentative of the nation in all foreign transactions.
He can of his own accord make treaties of peace,
commerce, alliance, and of every other description.
It has been insinuated, that his authority in this
respect is not conclusive, and that his conventions
with foreign powers are subject to the revision, and
stand in need of the ratification, of Parliament.
But I believe this doctrine was never heard of, until
it was broached upon the present occasion. Every
jurist ' of that kingdom, and every other man ac-
quainted with its Constitution, knows, as an estab-
lished fact, that the prerogative of making treaties
exists in the crown in its utmost plentitude; and
that the compacts entered into by the royal author-
ity have the most complete legal validity and per-
fection, independent of any other sanction. The
Parliament, it is true, is sometimes seen employing
itself in altering the existing laws to conform them
to the stipulations in a new treaty; and this may

^ have possibly given birth to the imagination, that
its cooperation was necessary to the obligatory
efficacy of the treaty. But this parliamentary in-
terposition proceeds from a different cause: from
the necessity of adjusting a most artificial and in-
tricate system of revenue and commercial laws, to

^ Vide Blackstone's Commentaries, vol. i., p. 257. — Publius.

The Federalist 189

the changes made in them by the operation of the
treaty; and of adapting new provisions and precau-
tions to the new state of things, to keep the machine
from running into disorder. In this respect, there-
fore, there is no comparison between the intended
power of the President and the actual power of the
British sovereign. The one can perform alone what
the other can do only with the concurrence of a
branch of the legislature. It must be admitted, that,
in this instance, the power of the federal Executive
would exceed that of any State Executive. But
this arises naturally from the sovereign power which
relates to treaties. If the Confederacy were to be
dissolved, it would become a question, whether the
Executives of the several States were not solely in-
vested with that delicate and important prerogative.

The President is also to be authorized to receive
ambassadors and other public ministers. This,
though it has been a rich theme of declamation, is
more a matter of dignity than of authority. It is a
circumstance which will be without consequence in
the administration of the government; and it was
far more convenient that it should be arranged in
this manner, than that there should be a necessity
of convening the legislature, or one of its branches,
upon every arrival of a foreign minister, though it
were merely to take the place of a departed prede-
cessor.

The President is to nominate, and, with the advice
and consent of the Senate^ to appoint ambassadors
and other public ministers, judges of the Supreme
Court, and in general all officers of the United States

iQO Alexander Hamilton

established by law, and whose appointments are
not otherwise provided for by the Constitution. The
king of Great Britain is emphatically and truly
styled the fountain of honor. He not only appoints
to all offices, but can create offices. He can confer
titles of nobility at pleasure; and has the disposal
of an immense number of church preferments.
There is evidently a great inferiority in the power of
the President, in this particular, to that of the Brit-
ish king; nor is it equal to that of the governor of
New York, if we are to interpret the meaning of the
constitution of the State by the practice which has
obtained under it. The power of appointment is
with us lodged in a council, composed of the governor
and four members of the Senate, chosen by the As-
sembly. The governor claims, and has frequently
exercised, the right of nomination, and is entitled to
a casting vote in the appointment. If he really has
the right of nominating, his authority is in this re-
spect equal to that of the President, and exceeds it
in the article of the casting vote. In the national
government, if the Senate should be divided, no ap-
pointment could be made; in the government of
New York, if the council should be divided, the
governor can turn the scale, and confirm his own
nomination.^ If we compare the publicity which

' Candor, however, demands an acknowledgment that I do not think
the claim of the governor to a right of nomination well founded. Yet
it is always justifiable to reason from the practice of a government,
till its propriety has been constitutionally questioned. And inde-
pendent of this claim, when we take into view the other considerations,
and pursue them through all their consequences, we shall be inclined
to draw much the same conclusion. — Publius.

The Federalist 191

must necessarily attend the mode of appointment by
the President and an entire branch of the national
legislature, with the privacy in the mode of appoint-
ment by the governor of New York, closeted in a
secret apartment with at most four, and frequently
with only two persons; and if we at the same time
consider how much more easy it must be to influence
the small number of which a council of appointment
consists, than the considerable number of which the
national Senate would consist, we cannot hesitate to
pronounce that the power of the chief magistrate of
this State, in the disposition of offices, must, in prac-
tice, be greatly superior to that of the Chief Magis-
trate of the Union.

Hence it appears that, except as to the concurrent
authority of the President in the article of treaties,
it would be difficult to determine whether that
magistrate would, in the aggregate, possess more or
less power than the Governor of New York. And it
appears yet more unequivocally, that there is no
pretence for the parallel which has been attempted
between him and the king of Great Britain. But
to render the contrast in this respect still more strik-
ing, it may be of use to throw the principal circum-
stances of dissimilitude into a closer group.

The President of the United States would be an
officer elected by the people for four years ; the king
of Great Britain is a perpetual and hereditary prince.
The one would be amenable to personal punishment
and disgrace; the person of the other is sacred and
inviolable. The one would have a qualified nega-
tive upon the acts of the legislative body; the other

192 Alexander Hamilton

has an absolute negative. The one would have a
right to command the military and naval forces of
the nation ; the other, in addition to this right,
possesses that of declaring war, and of raising and
regulating fleets and armies by his own authority.
The one would have a concurrent power with a
branch of the legislature in the formation of treaties ;
the other is the sole possessor of the power of making
treaties. The one would have a like concurrent
authority in appointing to offices; the other is the
sole author of all appointments. The one can con-
fer no privileges whatever: the other can make
denizens of aliens, noblemen of commoners; can
erect corporations with all the rights incident to
corporate bodies. The one can prescribe no rules
concerning the commerce or currency of the nation ;
the other is in several respects the arbiter of com-
merce, and in this capacity can establish markets
and fairs, can regulate weights and measures, can
lay embargoes for a limited time, can coin money,
can authorize or prohibit the circulation of foreign
coin. The one has no particle of spiritual jurisdic-
tion ; the other is the supreme head and governor of
the national church ! What answer shall we give to
those who would persuade us that things so unlike
resemble each other? The same that ought to be
given to those who tell us that a government, the
whole power of which would be in the hands of the
elective and periodical servants of the people, is an
aristocracy, a monarchy, and a despotism.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 193

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, March 18, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXX

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

There is an idea, which is not without its advo-
cates, that a vigorous Executive is inconsistent with
the genius of repubHcan government. The en-
Hghtened well-wishers to this species of government
must at least hope that the supposition is destitute
of foundation; since they can never admit its truth,
without at the same time admitting the condemna-
tion of their own principles. Energy in the Execu-
tive is a leading character in the definition of good
government. It is essential to the protection of the
community against foreign attacks; it is not less
essential to the steady administration of the laws;
to the protection of property against those irregular
and high-handed combinations which sometimes in-
terrupt the ordinary course of justice ; to the secur-
ity of liberty against the enterprises and assaults of
ambition, of faction, and of anarchy. Every man
the least conversant in Roman story, knows how
often that republic was obliged to take refuge in the
absolute power of a single man, under the formidable
title of Dictator, as well against the intrigues of
ambitious individuals who aspired to the tyranny,
and the seditions of whole classes of the community
whose conduct threatened the existence of all gov-
ernment, as against the invasions of external ene-
mies who menaced the conquest and destruction of
Rome.

VOL. XII. — 13.

194 Alexander Hamilton

There can be no need, however, to mutliply argu-
ments or examples on this head. A feeble Execu-
tive implies a feeble execution of the government.
A feeble execution is but another phrase for a bad
execution ; and a government ill executed, whatever
it may be in theory, must be, in practice, a bad
government.

Taking it for granted, therefore, that all men of
sense will agree in the necessity of an energetic Ex-
ecutive, it will only remain to inquire, what are the
ingredients which constitute this energy? How far
can they be combined with those other ingredients
which constitute safety in the republican sense?
And how far does this combination characterize the
plan which has been reported by the convention ?

The ingredients which constitute energy in the
Executive are, first, imity; secondly, duration;
thirdly, an adequate provision for its support;
fourthly, competent powers.

The ingredients which constitute safety in the
republican sense are, first, a due dependence on the
people; secondly, a due responsibility.

Those politicians and statesmen who have been the
most celebrated for the soundness of their principles
and for the justice of their views, have declared in
favor of a single Executive and a numerous legisla-
ture. They have, with great propriety, considered
energy as the most necessary qualification of the
former, and have regarded this as most applicable
to power in a single hand; while they have, with
equal propriety, considered the latter as best ad-
apted to deliberation and wisdom, and best calcu-

The Federalist 195

lated to conciliate the confidence of the people and
to secure their privileges and interests.

That unity is conducive to energy will not be dis-
puted. Decision, activity, secrecy, and despatch
will generally characterize the proceedings of one
man in a much more eminent degree than the pro-
ceedings of any greater number ; and in proportion as
the number is increased, these qualities will be
diminished.

This unity may be destroyed in two ways : either
by vesting the power in two or more magistrates of
equal dignity and authority ; or by vesting it ostensi-
bly in one man, subject, in whole or in part, to the
control and cooperation of others, in the capacity of
counsellors to him. Of the first, the two Consuls of
Rome may serve as an example; of the last, we shall
find examples in the constitutions of several of the
States. New York and New Jersey, if I recollect
right, are the only States which have intrusted the
executive authority wholly to single men.' Both
these methods of destroying the unity of the Execu-
tive have their partisans ; but the votaries of an ex-
ecutive council are the most numerous. They are
both liable, if not to equal, to similar objections, and
may in most lights be examined in conjunction.

The experience of other nations will afford little
instruction on this head. As far, however, as it
teaches any thing, it teaches us not to be enamoured
of plurality in the Executive. We have seen that

^ New York has no council except for the single purpose of appoint-
ing to offices; New Jersey has a council whom the governor may con-
sult. But I think, from the terms of the constitution, their resolutions
do not bind him. — Publius.

196 Alexander Hamilton

the Achaeans, on an experiment of two Praetors, were
induced to abolish one. The Roman history records
many instances of mischiefs to the repubhc from the
dissensions between the Consuls, and between the
military Tribunes, who were at times substituted
for the Consuls. But it gives us no specimens of any
peculiar advantages derived to the state from the
circumstance of the plurality of those magistrates.
That the dissensions between them were not more
frequent or more fatal, is matter of astonishment,
until we advert to the singular position in which the
republic was almost continually placed, and to the
prudent policy pointed out by the circumstances of
the state, and pursued by the Consuls, of making a
division of the government between them. The
patricians engaged in a perpetual struggle with
the plebeians for the preservation of their ancient
authorities and dignities; the Consuls, who were
generally chosen out of the former body, were com-
monly united by the personal interest they had in
the defence of the privileges of their order. In addi-
tion to this motive of union, after the arms of the
republic had considerably expanded the bounds of
its empire, it became an established custom with the
Consuls to divide the administration between them-
selves by lot — one of them remaining at Rome to
govern the city and its environs, the other taking
the command in the more distant provinces. This
expedient must, no doubt, have had great influence
in preventing those collisions and rivalships which
might otherwise have embroiled the peace of the
republic.

The Federalist 197

But quitting the dim Hght of historical research,
attaching ourselves purely to the dictates of reason
and good sense, we shall discover much greater
cause to reject than to approve the idea of plurality
in the Executive, under any modification what-
ever.

Wherever two or more persons are engaged in any
common enterprise or pursuit, there is always danger
of difference of opinion. If it be a public trust or
office, in which they are clothed with equal dignity
and authority, there is peculiar danger of personal
emulation and even animosity. From either, and
especially from all these causes, the most bitter dis-
sensions are apt to spring. Whenever these happen,
they lessen the respectability, weaken the authority,
and distract the plans and operations of those whom
they divide. If they should unfortunately assail the
supreme executive magistracy of a country, con-
sisting of a plurality of persons, they might impede
or frustrate the most important measures of the gov-
ernment, in the most critical emergencies of the
state. And what is still worse, they might split the
community into the most violent and irreconcilable
factions, adhering differently to the different indi-
viduals who composed the magistracy.

Men often oppose a thing, merely because they
have had no agency in planning it, or because it may
have been planned by those whom they dislike. But
if they have been consulted, and have happened to
disapprove, opposition then becomes, in their esti-
mation, an indispensable duty of self-love. They
seem to think themselves boimd in honor, and by

1 98 Alexander Hamilton

all the motives of personal infallibility, to defeat the
success of what has been resolved upon contrary to
their sentiments. Men of upright, benevolent tem-
pers have too many opportunities of remarking, with
horror, to what desperate lengths this disposition is
sometimes carried, and how often the great interests
of society are sacrificed to the vanity, to the conceit,
and to the obstinacy of individuals, who have credit
enough to make their passions and their caprices
interesting to mankind. Perhaps the question now
before the public may, in its consequences, afford
melancholy proofs of the effects of this despicable
frailty, or rather detestable vice, in the human
character.

Upon the principles of a free government, incon-
veniences from the source just mentioned must
necessarily be submitted to in the formation of the
legislature ; but it is unnecessary, and therefore un-
wise, to introduce them into the constitution of the
Executive. It is here too that they may be most
pernicious. In the legislature, promptitude of de-
cision is oftener an evil than a benefit. The differ-
ences of opinion, and the jarrings of parties in that
department of the government, though they may
sometimes obstruct salutary plans, yet often pro-
mote deliberation and circumspection, and serve to
check excesses in the majority. When a resolution
too is once taken, the opposition must be at an end.
That resolution is a law, and resistance to it punish-
able. But no favorable circumstances palliate or
atone for the disadvantages of dissension in the
executive department. Here, they are pure and un-

The Federalist 199

mixed. There is no point at which they cease to
operate. They serve to embarrass and weaken the
execution of the plan or measures to which they re-
late, from the first step to the final conclusion of it.
They constantly counteract those qualities in the
Executive which are the most necessary ingredients
in its composition, — vigor and expedition, and this
without any counterbalancing good. In the conduct
of war, in which the energy of the Executive is the
bulwark of the national security, every thing would
be to be apprehended from its plurality.

It must be confessed that these observations apply
with principal weight to the first case supposed —
that is, to a plurality of magistrates of equal dignity
and authority, a scheme, the advocates for which
are not likely to form a numerous sect; but they
apply, though not with equal, yet with considerable
weight to the project of a council, whose concurrence
is made constitutionally necessary to the operations
of the ostensible Executive. An artful cabal in that
council would be able to distract and to enervate the
whole system of administration. If no such cabal
should exist, the mere diversity of views and opinions
would alone be sufficient to tincture the exercise of
the executive authority with a spirit of habitual
feebleness and dilatoriness.

But one of the weightiest objections to a plurality
in the Executive, and which lies as much against
the last as the first plan, is, that it tends to conceal
faults and destroy responsibility. Responsibility is
of two kinds — to censure and to punishment. The
first is the more important of the two, especially in

200 Alexander Hamilton

an elective office. Man, in public trust, will much
oftener act in such a manner as to render him un-
worthy of being any longer trusted, than in such a
manner as to make him obnoxious to legal punish-
ment. But the multiplication of the Executive adds
to the difficulty of detection in either case. It often
becomes impossible, amidst mutual accusations, to
determme on whom the blame or the punishment of
a pernicious measure, or series of pernicious measures
ought really to fall. It is shifted from one to an-
other with so much dexterity, and under such plausi-
ble appearances, that the public opinion is left in
suspense about the real author. The circumstances
which may have led to any national miscarriage or
misfortune are sometimes so complicated that,
where there are a number of actors who may have
had different degrees and kinds of agency, though
we may clearly see upon the whole that there has
been mismanagement, yet it may be impracticable
to pronounce to whose account the evil which may
have been incurred is truly chargeable.

" I was overruled by my council. The council
were so divided in their opinions that it was impos-
sible to obtain any better resolution on the point."
These and similar pretexts are constantly at hand,
whether true or false. And who is there that will
either take the trouble or incur the odium, of a strict
scrutiny into the secret springs of the transaction?
Should there be found a citizen zealous enough to
undertake the unpromising task, if there happen to
be collusion between the parties concerned, how
easy it is to clothe the circumstances with so much

The Federalist 201

ambiguity, as to render it uncertain what was the
precise conduct of any of those parties?

In the single instance in which the governor of
this State is coupled with a council — that is, in the
appointment to offices, we have seen the mischiefs of
it in the view now under consideration. Scandalous
appointments to important offices have been made.
Some cases, indeed, have been so flagrant that all
PARTIES have agreed in the impropriety of the thing.
When inquiry has been made, the blame has been
laid by the governor on the members of the council,
who, on their part, have charged it upon his nomina-
tion ; while the people remain altogether at a loss to
determine, by whose influence their interests have
been committed to hands so unqualified and so mani-
festly improper. In tenderness to individuals, I
forbear to descend to particulars.

It is evident from these considerations, that the
plurality of the Executive tends to deprive the
people of the two greatest securities they can have
for the faithful exercise of any delegated power,
•first, the restrains of public opinion, which lose their
efficacy, as well on account of the division of the
censure attendant on bad measures among a num-
ber, as on account of the uncertainty on whom it
ought to fall; and, secondly, the opportunity of dis-
covering with facility and clearness the misconduct
of the persons they trust, in order either to their re-
moval from office, or to their actual punishment in
cases which admit of it.

In England, the king is a perpetual magistrate;
and it is a maxim which has obtained for the sake

202 Alexander Hamilton

of the public peace, that he is unaccountable for
his administration, and his person sacred. Nothing,
therefore, can be wiser in that kingdom, than to
annex to the king a constitutional coimcil, who may
be responsible to the nation for the advice they give.
Without this, there would be no responsibility what-
ever in the executive department — an idea inadmis-
sible in a free government. But even there the king
is not bound by the resolutions of his council, though
they are answerable for the advice they give. He is
the absolute master of his own conduct in the exer-
cise of his office, and may observe or disregard the
counsel given to him at his sole discretion.

But in a republic, where every magistrate ought
to be personally responsible for his behavior in office
the reason which in the British Constitution dictates
the propriety of a council, not only ceases to apply,
but turns against the institution. In the monarchy
of Great Britain, it furnishes a substitute for the
prohibited responsibility of the chief magistrate,
which serves in some degree as a hostage to the na-
tional justice for his good behavior. In the Amer-
ican republic, it would serve to destroy, or would
greatly diminish, the intended and necessary re-
sponsibility of the Chief Magistrate himself.

The idea of a council to the Executive, which has
so generally obtained in the State constitutions, has
been derived from that maxim of republican jealousy
which considers power as safer in the hands of a
number of men than of a single man. If the maxim
should be admitted to be applicable to the case, I
should contend that the advantage on that side

The Federalist 203

would not counterbalance the numerous disadvan-
tages on the opposite side. But I do not think the
rule at all applicable to the executive power. I
clearly concur in opinion, in this particular, with a
writer whom the celebrated Junius pronounces to be
''deep, solid, and ingenious," that "the executive
power is more easily confined when it is one"s
that it is far more safe there should be a single
object for the jealousy and watchfulness of the
people; and, in a word, that all multiplication of
the Executive is rather dangerous than friendly
to liberty.

A little consideration will satisfy us, that the
species of security sought for in the multiplication
of the Executive, is unattainable. Numbers must
be so great as to render combination difficult, or
they are rather a source of danger than of security.
The united credit and influence of several individuals
must be more formidable to liberty, than the credit
and influence of either of them separately. When
power, therefore, is placed in the hands of so small
a number of men, as to admit of their interests and
views being easily combined in a common enterprise,
by an artful leader, it becomes more liable to abuse,
and more dangerous when abused, than if it be
lodged in the hands of one man ; who, from the very
circumstance of his being alone, will be more nar-
rowly watched and more readily suspected, and who
cannot unite so great a mass of influence as when he
is associated with others. The Decemvirs of Rome,
whose name denotes their number,'' were more to be

* De Lolme. — Publius. ^ Ten. — Publius.

204 Alexander Hamilton

dreaded in their usurpation than any one of them
would have been. No person would think of pro-
posing an Executive much more numerous than that
body; from six to a dozen have been suggested for
the ntmiber of the council. The extreme of these
numbers, is not too great for an easy combination;
and from such a combination America would have
more to fear, than from the ambition of any single
individual. A council to a magistrate, who is him-
self responsible for what he does, are generally no-
thing better than a clog upon his good intentions, are
often the instruments and accomplices of his bad,
and are almost always a cloak to his faults.

I forbear to dwell upon the subject of expense;
though it be evident that if the council should be
numerous enough to answer the principal end aimed
at by the institution, the salaries of the members,
who must be drawn from their homes to reside at
the seat of government, would form an item in the
catalogue of public expenditures too serious to be
incurred for an object of equivocal utility. I will
only add that, prior to the appearance of the Con-
stitution, I rarely met with an intelligent man from
any of the States, who did not admit, as the result of
experience, that the UNITY of the executive of this
State was one of the best of the distinguishing fea-
tures of our constitution.

PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 205

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, March i8, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Duration in office has been mentioned as the
second requisite to the energy of the Executive au-
thority. This has relation to two objects: to the
personal firmness of the executive magistrate, in the
employment of his constitutional powers; and to
the stability of the system of administration which
may have been adopted under his auspices. With re-
gard to the first, it must be evident, that the longer
the duration in office, the greater will be the proba-
bility of obtaining so important an advantage. It is
a general principle of human nature, that a man will
be interested in whatever he possesses, in proportion
to the firmness or precariousness of the tenure by
which he holds it ; will be less attached to what he
holds by a momentary or uncertain title, than to
what he enjoys by a durable or certain title; and, of
course,will be willing to risk more for the sake of the
one, than for the sake of the other. This remark is not
less applicable to a political privilege, or honor, or
trust, than to any article of ordinary property. The
inference from it is, that a man acting in the capacity
of chief magistrate, under a consciousness that in a
very short time he must lay down his office, will be
apt to feel himself too little interested in it to hazard
any material censure or perplexity, from the inde-
pendent exertion of his powers, or from encounter-
ing the ill-humors, however transient, which may

2o6 Alexander Hamilton

happen to prevail, either in a considerable part of
the society itself, or even in a predominant faction
in the legislative body. If the case should only
be, that he might lay it down, unless continued by
a new choice, and if he should be desirous of being
continued, his wishes, conspiring with his fears,
would tend still more powerfully to corrupt his in-
tegrity, or debase his fortitude. In either case,
feebleness and irresolution must be the character-
istics of the station.

There are some who would be inclined to regard
the servile pliancy of the Executive to a prevailing
current, either in the community or in the legislature,
as its best recommendation. But such men enter-
tain very crude notions, as well of the purposes for
which government was instituted, as of the true
means by which the public happiness may be pro-
moted. The republican principle demands that the
deliberate sense of the community should govern the
conduct of those to whom they intrust the manage-
ment of their affairs ; but it does not require an un-
qualified complaisance to every sudden breeze of
passion, or to every transient impulse which the peo-
ple may receive from the arts of men, who flatter
their prejudices to betray their interests. It is a
just observation, that the people commonly intend
the PUBLIC GOOD. This often applies to their very
errors. But their good sense would despise the
adulator who should pretend that they always reason
right about the means of promoting it. They know
from experience that they sometimes err, and the
wonder is that they so seldom err as they do, beset,

The Federalist 207

as they continually are, by the wiles of parasites and
sycophants, by the snares of the ambitious, the
avaricious, the desperate, by the artifices of men
who possess their confidence more than they deserve
it, and of those who seek to possess rather than to
deserve it. When occasions present themselves, in
which the interests of the people are at variance with
their inclinations, it is the duty of the persons whom
they have appointed to be the guardians of those
interests, to withstand the temporary delusion, in
order to give them time and opportunity for more
cool and sedate reflection. Instances might be
cited in which a conduct of this kind has saved the
people from very fatal consequences of their own
mistakes, and has procured lasting monuments of
their gratitude to the men who had courage and
magnanimity enough to serve them at the peril of
their displeasure.

But however inclined we might be to insist upon
an unbounded complaisance in the Executive to the
inclinations of the people, we can with no propriety
contend for a like complaisance to the humors of the
legislature. The latter may sometimes stand in
opposition to the former, and at other times the
people may be entirely neutral. In either supposi-
tion, it is certainly desirable that the Executive
should be in a situation to dare to act his own opinion
with vigor and decision.

The same rule which teaches the propriety of a
partition between the various branches of power,
teaches us likewise that this partition ought to be
so contrived as to render the one independent of the

2o8 Alexander Hamilton

other. To what purpose separate the executive or
the judiciary from the legislative, if both the execu-
tive and the judiciary are so constituted as to be at
the absolute devotion of the legislative? Such a
separation must be merely nominal, and incapable
of producing the ends for which it was established.
It is one thing to be subordinate to the laws, and
another to be dependent on the legislative body.
The first comports with, the last violates, the funda-
mental principles of good government; and, what-
ever may be the forms of the Constitution, unites all
power in the same hands. The tendency of the
legislative authority to absorb every other, has been
fully displayed and illustrated by examples in some
preceding numbers. In governments purely repub-
lican, this tendency is almost irresistible. The re-
presentatives of the people, in a popular assembly,
seem sometimes to fancy that they are the people
themselves, and betray strong symptoms of impa-
tience and disgust at the least sign of opposition
from any other quarter; as if the exercise of its
rights, by either the executive or judiciary, were a
breach of their privilege and an outrage to their dig-
nity. They often appear disposed to exert an im-
perious control over the other departments ; and as
they commonly have the people on their side, they
always act with such momentum as to make it very
difficult for the other members of the government to
maintain the balance of the Constitution.

It may perhaps be asked, how the shortness of the
duration in office can affect the independence of the
Executive on the legislature, unless the one were

The Federalist 209

possessed of the power of appointing or displacing
the other. One answer to this inquiry may be drawn
from the principle already remarked — that is, from
the slender interest a man is apt to take in a short-
lived advantage, and the little inducement it affords
him to expose himself, on account of it, to any con-
siderable inconvenience or hazard. Another an-
swer, perhaps more obvious, though not more
conclusive, will result from the consideration of
the influence of the legislative body over the people ;
which might be employed to prevent the reelection
of a man who, by an upright resistance to any
sinister project of that body, should have made
himself obnoxious to its resentment.

It may be asked also, whether a duration of four
years would answer the end proposed; and if it
would not, whether a less period, which would at
least be recommended by greater security against
ambitious designs, would not, for that reason, be
preferable to a longer period, which was, at the same
time, too short for the purpose of inspiring the de-
sired firmness and independence of the magistrate.

It cannot be affirmed, that a duration of four years,
or any other limited duration, would completely
answer the end proposed; but it would contribute
towards it in a degree which would have a material
influence upon the spirit and character of the govern-
ment. Between the commencement and termi-
nation of such a period, there would always be a
considerable interval, in which the prospect of anni-
hilation would be sufficiently remote, not to have an
improper effect upon the conduct of a man indued

VOL. XII. — 14.

2IO Alexander Hamilton

with a tolerable portion of fortitude; and in which
he might reasonably promise himself, that there
would be time enough before it arrived, to make the
community sensible of the propriety of the measures
he might incline to pursue. Though it be probable
that, as he approached the moment when the public
were, by a new election, to signify their sense of his
conduct, his confidence, and with it his firmness,
would decline ; yet both the one and the other would
derive support from the opportunities which his
previous continuance in the station had afforded
him, of establishing himself in the esteem and good-
will of his constituents. He might, then, hazard
with safety, in proportion to the proofs he had given
of his wisdom and integrity, and to the title he had
acquired to the respect and attachment of his fellow-
citizens. As, on the one hand, a duration of four
years will contribute to the firmness of the Execu-
tive in a sufficient degree to render it a very valuable
ingredient in the composition ; so, on the other, it is
not enough to justify any alarm for the public liberty.
If a British House of Commons, from the most feeble
beginnings, from the mere power of assenting or dis-
agreeing to the imposition of a new tax, have, by rapid
strides, reduced the prerogatives of the crown and
the privileges of the nobility within the limits they
conceived to be compatible with the principles of a
free government, while they raised themselves to the
rank and consequence of a coequal branch of the
legislature ; if they have been able, in one instance, to
abolish both the royalty and the aristocracy, and to
overturn all the ancient establishments, as well in

The Federalist 211

the Church as State; if they have been able, on a
recent occasion, to make the monarch tremble at
the prospect of an innovation ' attempted by them,
what would be to be feared from an elective magis-
trate of four years' duration, with the confined au-
thorities of a President of the United States ? What,
but that he might be unequal to the task which the
Constitution assigns him? I shall only add, that if
his duration be such as to leave a doubt of his firm-
ness, that doubt is inconsistent with a jealousy of
his encroachments.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday^ March 21, 1788
THE FEDERALIST?. No. LXXII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The administration of government, in its largest
sense, comprehends all the operations of the body
politic, whether legislative, executive, or judiciary;
but in its most usual and perhaps in its most precise
signification, it is limited to executive details, and
falls peculiarly within the province of the executive
department. The actual conduct of foreign nego-
tiations, the preparatory plans of finance, the appli-
cation and disbursement of the public moneys in
conformity to the general appropriations of the legis-
lature, the arrangement of the army and navy, the

' This was the case with respect to Mr. Fox's India bill, which was
carried in the House of Commons, and rejected in the House of Lords,
to the entire satisfaction, as it is said, of the people. — Publius.

212 Alexander Hamilton

direction of the operations of war, — these, and other
matters of a like nature, constitute what seems to
be most properly understood by the administration
of government. The persons, therefore, to whose
immediate management these different matters are
committed, ought to be considered as the assistants
or deputies of the chief magistrate, and on this ac-
count, they ought to derive their offices from his ap-
pointment, at least from his nomination, and ought
to be subject to his superintendence. This view of
the subject will at once suggest to us the intimate
connection between the duration of the executive
magistrate in office and the stability of the system
of administration. To reverse and undo what has
been done by a predecessor, is very often considered
by a successor as the best proof he can give of his
own capacity and desert; and in addition to this
propensity, where the alteration has been the result
of public choice, the person substituted is warranted
in supposing that the dismission of his predecessor
has proceeded from a dislike to his measures; and
that the less he resembles him, the more he will re-
commend himself to the favor of his constituents.
These considerations, and the influence of personal
confidences and attachments, would be likely to
induce every new President to promote a change of
men to fill the subordinate stations; and these
causes together could not fail to occasion a dis-
graceful and ruinous mutability in the administra-
tion of the government.

With a positive duration of considerable extent, I
connect the circumstance of reeligibility. The first

The Federalist 213

is necessary to give to the officer himself the inclina-
tion and the resolution to act his part well, and to the
community time and leisure to observe the tendency
of his measures, and thence to form an experimental
estimate of their merits. The last is necessary to
enable the people, when they see reason to approve
of his conduct, to continue him in his station, in
order to prolong the utility of his talents and virtues,
and to secure to the government the advantage of
permanency in a wise system of administration.

Nothing appears more plausible at first sight, nor
more ill-founded upon close inspection, than a
scheme which in relation to the present point has
had some respectable advocates, — I mean that of
continuing the chief magistrate in office for a certain
time, and then excluding him from it either for a
limited period or forever after. This exclusion,
whether temporary or perpetual, would have nearly
the same effects, and these effects would be for the
most part rather pernicious than salutary.

One ill effect of the exclusion would be a diminu-
tion of the inducements to good behavior. There
are few men who would not feel much less zeal in the
discharge of a duty, when they were conscious that
the advantages of the station with which it was con-
nected must be relinquished at a determinate period,
than when they were permitted to entertain a hope
of obtaining, by meriting, a continuance of them.
This position will not be disputed so long as it is ad-
mitted that the desire of reward is one of the strong-
est incentives of human conduct ; or that the best se-
curity for the fidelity of mankind is to make their

214 Alexander Hamilton

interest coincide with their duty. Even the love of
fame, the ruling passion of the noblest minds, which
would prompt a man to plan and undertake exten-
sive and arduous enterprises for the public benefit,
requiring considerable time to mature and perfect
them, if he could flatter himself with the prospect of
being allowed to finish what he had begun, would, on
the contrary, deter him from the undertaking, when
he foresaw that he must quit the scene before he
could accomplish the work, and must commit that,
together with his own reputation, to hands which
might be unequal or unfriendly to the task. The
most to be expected from the generality of men, in
such a situation, is the negative merit of not doing
harm, instead of the positive merit of doing good.

Another ill effect of the exclusion would be the
temptation to sordid views, to peculation, and, in
some instances, to usurpation. An avaricious man,
who might happen to fill the office, looking forward
to a time when he must at all events yield up the
emoluments he enjoyed, would feel a propensity,
not easy to be resisted by such a man, to make the
best use of the opportunity he enjoyed while it lasted,
and might not scruple to have recourse to the most
corrupt expedients to make the harvest as abundant
as it was transitory ; though the same man, probably,
with a different prospect before him, might content
himself with the regular perquisites of his situation,
and might even be unwilling to risk the consequences
of an abuse of his opportunities. His avarice might
be a guard upon his avarice. Add to this that the
same man might be vain or ambitious, as well as

The Federalist 215

avaricious. And if he could expect to prolong his
honors by his good conduct, he might hesitate to
sacrifice his appetite for them to his appetite for
gain. But with the prospect before him of approach-
ing an inevitable annihilation, his avarice would be
likely to get the victory over his caution, his vanity,
or his ambition.

An ambitious man, too, when he found himself
seated on the summit of his country's honors, when
he looked forward to the time at which he must
descend from the exalted eminence for ever, and re-
flected that no exertion of merit on his part could
save him from the unwelcome reverse; such a man,
in such a situation, would be much more violently
tempted to embrace a favorable conjuncture for
attempting the prolongation of his power, at every
personal hazard, than if he had the probability of
answering the same end by doing his duty.

Would it promote the peace of the community, or
the stability of the government to have half a dozen
men who had had credit enough to be raised to the
seat of the supreme magistracy, wandering among
the people like discontented ghosts, and sighing for
a place which they were destined never more to
possess ?

A third ill effect of the exclusion would be, the de-
priving the community of the advantage of the
experience gained by the chief magistrate in the
exercise of his office. That experience is the parent
of wisdom, is an adage the truth of which is recog-
nized by the wisest as well as the simplest of man-
kind. What more desirable or more essential than

2i6 Alexander Hamilton

this quality in the governors of nations? Where
more desirable or more essential than in the first
magistrate of a nation? Can it be wise to put this
desirable and essential quality under the ban of the
Constitution, and to declare that the moment it is
acquired, its possessor shall be compelled to abandon
the station in which it was acquired, and to which it
is adapted? This, nevertheless, is the precise im-
port of all those regulations which exclude men from
serving their country, by the choice of their fellow-
citizens, after they have by a course of service fitted
themselves for doing it with a greater degree of
utility.

A fourth ill effect of the exclusion would be the
banishing men from stations in which, in certain
emergencies of the state, their presence might be of
the greatest moment to the public interest or safety.
There is no nation which has not, at one period or
another, experienced an absolute necessity of the
services of particular men in particular situations;
perhaps it would not be too strong to say, to the
preservation of its political existence. How unwise,
therefore, must be every such self-denying ordinance
as serves to prohibit a nation from making use of its
own citizens in the manner best suited to its exigen-
cies and circumstances ! Without supposing the per-
sonal essentiality of the man, it is evident that a
change of the chief magistrate, at the breaking out
of a war, or at any similar crisis, for another, even of
equal merit, would at all times be detrimental to
the community, inasmuch as it would substitute in-
experience to experience, and would tend to im-

The Federalist 217

hinge and set afloat the already settled train of the
administration.

A fifth ill effect of the exclusion would be, that it
would operate as a constitutional interdiction of
stability in the administration. By necessitating a
change of men, in the first office of the nation, it
would necessitate a mutability of measures. It is
not generally to be expected, that men will vary
and measures remain uniform. The contrary is the
usual course of things. And we need not be appre-
hensive that there will be too much stability, while
there is even the option of changing; nor need we
desire to prohibit the people from continuing their
confidence where they think it may be safely placed,
and where, by constancy on their part, they may
obviate the fatal inconveniences of fluctuating coun-
cils and a variable policy.

These are some of the disadvantages which would
flow from the principle of exclusion. They apply
most forcibly to the scheme of a perpetual exclusion ;
but when we consider that even a partial exclusion
would always render the readmission of the person a
remote and precarious object, the observations which
have been made will apply nearly as fully to one
case as to the other.

What are the advantages promised to counter-
balance these disadvantages ? They are represented
to be: ist, greater independence in the magistrate ;
2d, greater security to the people. Unless the ex-
clusion be perpetual, there will be no pretence to
infer the first advantage. But even in that case,
may he have no object beyond his present station.

2i8 Alexander Hamilton

to which he may sacrifice his independence? May
he have no connections, no friends, for whom he may
sacrifice it? May he not be less willing, by a firm
conduct, to make personal enemies, when he acts
under the impression that a time is fast approaching,
on the arrival of which he not only may, but must, be
exposed to their resentments, upon an equal, per-
haps upon an inferior, footing? It is not an easy
point to determine whether his independence would
be most promoted or impaired by such an arrange-
ment.

As to the second supposed advantage, there is still
greater reason to entertain doubts concerning it. If
the exclusion were to be perpetual, a man of irregu-
lar ambition, of whom alone there could be reason
in any case to entertain apprehension, would, with
infinite reluctance, yield to the necessity of taking
his leave forever of a post in which his passion for
power and preeminence had acquired the force of
habit. And if he had been fortunate or adroit enough
to conciliate the good- will of the people, he might in-
duce them to consider as a very odious and unjusti-
fiable restraint upon themselves, a provision which
was calculated to debar them of the right of giving
a fresh proof of their attachment to a favorite.
There may be conceived circumstances in which this
disgust of the people, seconding the thwarted ambi-
tion of such a favorite, might occasion greater danger
to liberty, than could ever reasonably be dreaded
from the possibility of a perpetuation in office, by
the voluntary suffrages of the community, exercising
a constitutional privilege.

The Federalist 219

There is an excess of refinement in the idea of
disabhng the people to continue in office men who
had entitled themselves, in their opinion, to appro-
bation and confidence ; the advantages of which are
at best speculative and equivocal, and are over-
balanced by disadvantages far more certain and
decisive.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, March 21, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The third ingredient towards constituting the
vigor of the executive authority, is an adequate pro-
vision for its support. It is evident that, without
proper attention to this article, the separation of the
executive from the legislative department would be
merely nominal and nugatory. The legislature,
with a discretionary power over the salary and
emoluments of the Chief Magistrate, could render
him as obsequious to their will as they might think
proper to make him. They might, in most cases,
either reduce him by famine, or tempt him by lar-
gesses, to surrender at discretion his judgment to
their inclinations. These expressions, taken in all
the latitude of the terms, would no doubt convey
more than is intended. There are men who could
neither be distressed nor won into a sacrifice of their
duty ; but this stern virtue is the growth of few soils ;
and in the main it will be found that a power over a

220 Alexander Hamilton

man's support is a power over his will. If it were
necessary to confirm so plain a truth by facts, ex-
amples would not be wanting, even in this country,
of the intimidation or seduction of the Executive by
the terrors or allurements of the pecuniary arrange-
ments of the legislative body.

It is not easy, therefore, to commend too highly the
judicious attention which has been paid to this sub-
ject in the proposed Constitution. It is there pro-
vided that "The President of the United States
shall, at stated times, receive for his service a com-
pensation which shall neither be increased nor dimin-
ished during the period for which he shall have been
elected; and he shall not receive within that period any
other emolum-ent from the United States, or any of
them." It is impossible to imagine any provision
which would have been more eligible than this. The
legislature, on the appointment of a President, is
once for all to declare what shall be the compensa-
tion for his services during the time for which he
shall have been elected. This done, they will have
no power to alter it, either by increase or diminu-
tion, till a new period of service by a new election
commences. They can neither weaken his fortitude
by operating on his necessities, nor corrupt his in-
tegrity by appealing to his avarice. Neither the
Union, nor any of its members, will be at liberty to
give, nor will he be at liberty to receive, any other
emolument than that which may have been deter-
mined by the first act. He can, of course, have no
pecuniary inducement to renounce or desert the in-
dependence intended for him by the Constitution.

The Federalist 221

The last of the requisites to energy, which have
been enumerated, are competent powers. Let us
proceed to consider those which are proposed to be
vested in the President of the United States.

The first thing that offers itself to our observation,
is the qualified negative of the President upon the
acts or resolutions of the two houses of the legisla-
ture; or, in other words, his power of returning all
bills with objections, to have the effect of preventing
their becoming laws, unless they should afterwards
be ratified by two thirds of each of the component
members of the legislative body.

The propensity of the legislative department to
intrude upon the rights, and to absorb the powers,
of the other departments, has been already suggested
and repeated ; the insufficiency of a mere parchment
delineation of the boundaries of each, has also been
remarked upon ; and the necessity of furnishing each
with constitutional arms for its own defence, has
been inferred and proved. From these clear and in-
dubitable principles results the propriety of a nega-
tive, either absolute or qualified, in the Executive,
upon the acts of the legislative branches. Without
the one or the other, the former would be absolutely
unable to defend himself against the depredations
of the latter. He might gradually be stripped of his
authorities by successive resolutions, or annihilated
by a single vote. And in the one mode or the
other, the legislative and executive powers might
speedily come to be blended in the same hands. If
even no propensity had ever discovered itself in the
legislative body to invade the rights of the Execu-

222 Alexander Hamilton

tive, the rules of just reasoning and theoretic pro-
priety would of themselves teach us, that the one
ought not to be left to the mercy of the other, but
ought to possess a constitutional and effectual power
of self-defence.

But the power in question has a further use. It
not only serves as a shield to the Executive, but it
furnishes an additional security against the enaction
of improper laws. It establishes a salutary check
upon the legislative body, calculated to guard the
community against the effects of faction, precipi-
tancy, or of any impulse unfriendly to the public
good, which may happen to influence a majority of
that body.

The propriety of a negative has, upon some occa-
sions, been combated by an observation, that it was
not to be presumed a single man would possess more
virtue and wisdom than a number of men ; and that
unless this presumption should be entertained, it
would be improper to give the executive magistrate
any species of control over the legislative body.

But this observation, when examined, will appear
rather specious than solid. The propriety of the
thing does not turn upon the supposition of superior
wisdom or virtue in the Executive, but upon the
supposition that the legislature will not be infallible ;
that the love of power may sometimes betray it into
a disposition to encroach upon the rights of other
members of the government ; that a spirit of faction
may sometimes pervert its deliberations; that im-
pressions of the moment may sometimes hurry it into
measures which itself, on maturer reflection,would

The Federalist 223

condemn. The primary inducement to conferring
the power in question upon the Executive is, to
enable him to defend himself ; the secondary one is
to increase the chances in favor of the community
against the passing of bad laws, through haste, in-
advertence, or design. The oftener the measure is
brought under examination, the greater the divers-
ity in the situations of those who are to examine it,
the less must be the danger of those errors which
flow from want of due deliberation, or of those mis-
steps which proceed from the contagion of some com-
mon passion or interest. It is far less probable, that
culpable views of any kind should infect all the parts
of the government at the same moment and in rela-
tion to the same object, than that they should by
turns govern and mislead every one of them.

It may perhaps be said that the power of prevent-
ing bad laws includes that of preventing good ones ;
and may be used to the one purpose as well as to the
other. But this objection will have little weight
with those who can properly estimate the mischiefs
of that inconstancy and mutability in the laws,
which form the greatest blemish in the character and
genius of our governments. They will consider
every institution calculated to restrain the excess of
law-making, and to keep things in the same state in
which they happen to be at any given period, as
much more likely to do good than harm ; because it
is favorable to greater stability in the system of
legislation. The injury which may possibly be done by
defeating a few good laws, will be amply compensated
by the advantage of preventing a number of bad ones.

224 Alexander Hamilton

Nor is this all. The superior weight and influence
of the legislative body in a free government, and the
hazard to the Executive in a trial of strength with
that body, afford a satisfactory security that the
negative would generally be employed with great
caution; and there would oftener be room for a
charge of timidity than of rashness in the exercise
of it. A king of Great Britain, with all his train
of sovereign attributes, and with all the influence he
draws from a thousand sources, would, at this day,
hesitate to put a negative upon the joint resolutions
of the two houses of Parliament. He would not fail
to exert the utmost resources of that influence to
strangle a measure disagreeable to him, in its pro-
gress to the throne, to avoid being reduced to the
dilemma of permitting it to take effect, or of risking
the displeasure of the nation by an opposition to the
sense of the legislative body. Nor is it probable,
that he would ultimately venture to exert his pre-
rogatives, but in a case of manifest propriety, or ex-
treme necessity. All well-informed men in that
kingdom will accede to the justness of this remark.
A very considerable period has elapsed since the
negative of the crown has been exercised.

If a magistrate so powerful and so well fortified
as a British monarch, would have scruples about the
exercise of the power under consideration, how much
greater caution may be reasonably expected in a
President of the United States, clothed for the short
period of four years with the executive authority of
a government wholly and purely republican?

It is evident that there would be greater danger

The Federalist 225

of his not using his power when necessary, than of
his using it too often, or too much. An argument,
indeed, against its expediency, has been drawn from
this very source. It has been represented, on this
account, as a power odious in appearance, useless in
practice. But it will not follow, that because it
might be rarely exercised, it would never be exer-
cised. In the case for which it is chiefly designed,
that of an immediate attack upon the constitutional
rights of the Executive, or in a case in which the
public good was evidently and palpably sacrificed,
a man of tolerable firmness would avail himself of
his constitutional means of defence, and would
listen to the admonitions of duty and responsibility.
In the former supposition, his fortitude would be
stimulated by his immediate interest in the power
of his office ; in the latter, by the probability of the
sanction of his constituents, who, though they
would naturally incline to the legislative body in a
doubtful case, would hardly suffer their partiality to
delude them in a very plain case. I speak now with
an eye to a magistrate possessing only a common
share of firmness. There are men who, under any
circumstances, will have the courage to do their duty
at every hazard.

But the convention have pursued a mean in this
business, which will both facilitate the exercise of
the power vested in this respect in the executive
magistrate, and make its efficacy to depend on the
sense of a considerable part of the legislative body.
Instead of an absolute negative, it is proposed to
give the Executive the qualified negative already

VOL. Xll,— 15.

226 Alexander Hamilton

described. This is a power which would be much
more readily exercised than the other. A man who
might be afraid to defeat a law by his single veto,
might not scruple to return it for reconsideration;
subject to being finally rejected only in the event of
more than one third of each house concurring in the
sufficiency of his objections. He would be encour-
aged by the reflection, that if his opposition should
prevail, it would embark in it a very respectable
proportion of the legislative body, whose influence
would be united with his in supporting the pro-
priety of his conduct in the public opinion. A direct
and categorical negative has something in the ap-
pearance of it more harsh, and more apt to irritate,
than the mere suggestion of argumentative objec-
tions to be approved or disapproved by those to
whom they are addressed. In proportion as it would
be less apt to offend, it would be more apt to be exer-
cised ; and for this very reason, it may in practice be
found more effectual. It is to be hoped that it will
not often happen that improper views will govern
so large a proportion as two thirds of both branches
of the legislature at the same time; and this, too, in
spite of the counterpoising weight of the Executive.
It is at any rate far less probable that this should be
the case, than that such views should taint the reso-
lutions and conduct of a bare majority. A power
of this nature in the Executive will often have a
silent and unperceived, though forcible, operation.
When men, engaged in unjustifiable pursuits, are
aware that obstructions may come from a quarter
which they cannot control, they will often be re-

The Federalist 227

strained by the bare apprehension of opposition, from
doing what they would with eagerness rush into, if
no such external impediments were to be feared.

This qualified negative, as has been elsewhere re-
marked, is in this State vested in a council, consisting
of the governor, with the chancellor and judges of
the Supreme Court, or any two of them. It has been
freely employed upon a variety of occasions, and
frequently with success. And its utility has become
so apparent, that persons who, in compiling the Con-
stitution, were violent opposers of it, have from ex-
perience become its declared admirers.'

I have in another place remarked, that the con-
vention, in the formation of this part of their plan,
had departed from the model of the constitution of
this State, in favor of that of Massachusetts. Two
strong reasons may be imagined for this preference.
One is that the judges, who are to be the interpreters
of the law, might receive an improper bias, from
having given a previous opinion in their revisionary
capacities ; the other is that by being often associated
with the Executive, they might be induced to em-
bark too far in the political views of that magistrate,
and thus a dangerous combination might by degrees
be cemented between the executive and judiciary
departments. It is impossible to keep the judges
too distinct from every other avocation than that
of expounding the laws. It is peculiarly dangerous
to place them in a situation to be either corrupted or
influenced by the Executive. Publius.

^ Mr. Abraham Yates, a warm opponent of the plan of the conven-
tion, is of this number. — Publius.

228 Alexander Hamilton

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, March 25, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXIV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The President of the United States is to be " com-
mander-in-chief of the army and navy of the United
States, and of the mihtia of the several States when
called into the actual service of the United States."
The propriety of this provision is so evident in itself,
and it is, at the same time, so consonant to the prece-
dents of the State constitutions in general, that little
need be said to explain or enforce it. Even those of
them which have, in other respects, coupled the
chief magistrate with a council, have for the most
part concentrated the military authority in him
alone. Of all the cares or concerns of government,
the direction of war most peculiarly demands those
qualities which distinguish the exercise of power by
a single hand. The direction of war implies the
direction of the common strength ; and the power of
directing and employing the common strength, forms
a usual and essential part in the definition of the
executive authority.

"The President may require the opinion, in
writing, of the principal officer in each of the execu-
tive departments, upon any subject relating to the
duties of their respective offices." This I consider
as a mere redundancy in the plan, as the right for
which it provides would result of itself from the
office.

The Federalist 229

He is also to be authorized to grant " reprieves and
pardons for offences against the United States, ex-
cept in cases of impeachment.'' Humanity and good
policy conspire to dictate, that the benign preroga-
tive of pardoning should be as little as possible fet-
tered or embarrassed. The criminal code of every
country partakes so much of necessary severity,
that without an easy access to exceptions in favor
of unfortunate guilt, justice would wear a counte-
nance too sanguinary and cruel. As the sense of re-
sponsibility is always strongest, in proportion as it
is undivided, it may be inferred that a single man
would be most ready to attend to the force of those
motives which might plead for a mitigation of the
rigor of the law, and least apt to yield to considera-
tions which were calculated to shelter a fit object of
its vengeance. The reflection that the fate of a
fellow-creature depended on his sole fiat, would
naturally inspire scrupulousness and caution; the
dread of being accused of weakness or connivance,
would beget equal circumspection, though of a differ-
ent kind. On the other hand, as men generally de-
rive confidence from their numbers, they might often
encourage each other in an act of obduracy, and
might be less sensible to the apprehension of sus-
picion or censure for an injudicious or affected clem-
ency. On these accounts, one man appears to be a
more eligible dispenser of the mercy of government,
than a body of men.

The expediency of vesting the power of pardoning
in the President has, if I mistake not, been only con-
tested in relation to the crime of treason. This, it

230 Alexander Hamilton

has been urged, ought to have depended upon the
assent of one, or both, of the branches of the legisla-
tive body. I shall not deny that there are strong
reasons to be assigned for requiring in this particular
the concurrence of that body, or of a part of it. As
treason is a crime levelled at the immediate being of
the society, when the laws have once ascertained the
guilt of the offender, there seems a fitness in referring
the expediency of an act of mercy towards him to
the judgment of the legislature. And this ought the
rather to be the case, as the supposition of the con-
nivance of the Chief Magistrate ought not to be en-
tirely excluded. But there are also strong objections
to such a plan. It is not to be doubted, that a single
man of prudence and good sense is better fitted, in
delicate conjunctures, to balance the motives which
may plead for and against the remission of the pun-
ishment, than any numerous body whatever. It de-
serves particular attention, that treason will often be
connected with seditions which embrace a large pro-
portion of the community; as lately happened in
Massachusetts. In every such case, we might ex-
pect to see the representation of the people tainted
with the same spirit which had given birth to the
offence. And when parties were pretty equally
matched, the secret sympathy of the friends and
favorers of the condemned person, availing itself of
the good-nature and weakness of others, might fre-
quently bestow impunity where the terror of an ex-
ample was necessary. On the other hand, when the
sedition had proceeded from causes which had in-
flamed the resentments of the major party, they

The Federalist 231

might often be found obstinate and inexorable, when
policy demanded a conduct of forbearance and clem-
ency. But the principal argument for reposing the
power of pardoning in this case in the Chief Magis-
trate is this: in seasons of insurrection or rebellion,
there are often critical moments, when a well-timed
offer of pardon to the insurgents or rebels may re-
store the tranquillity of the commonwealth; and
which, if suffered to pass unimproved, it may never
be possible afterwards to recall. The dilatory
process of convening the legislature, or one of its
branches, for the purpose of obtaining its sanction to
the measure, would frequently be the occasion of let-
ting slip the golden opportunity The loss of a week,
a day, an hour, may sometimes be fatal. If it should
be observed, that a discretionary power, with a view
to such contingencies, might be occasionally con-
ferred upon the President, it may be answered in the
first place, that it is questionable, whether, in a
limited Constitution, that power could be delegated
by law ; and in the second place, that it would gen-
erally be impolitic beforehand to take any step which
might hold out the prospect of impunity. A pro-
ceeding of this kind, out of the usual course, would
be likely to be construed into an argument of timid-
ity or of weakness, and would have a tendency to
embolden guilt.

PUBLIUS.

232 Alexander Hamilton

For the Independent Journal
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The President is to have power, ''by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties,
provided two thirds of the senators present concur."

Though this provision has been assailed, on differ-
ent grounds, with no small degree of vehemence, I
scruple not to declare my firm persuasion, that it is
one of the best digested and most unexceptionable
parts of the plan. One ground of objection is the
trite topic of the intermixture of powers ; some con-
tending that the President ought alone to possess the
power of making treaties; others, that it ought to
have been exclusively deposited in the Senate. An-
other source of objection is derived from the small
number of persons by whom a treaty may be made.
Of those who espouse this objection, a part are of
opinion that the House of Representatives ought to
have been associated in the business, while another
part seem to think that nothing more was necessary
than to have substituted two thirds of all the mem-
bers of the Senate, to two thirds of the members
present. As I flatter myself the observations made
in a preceding number upon this part of the plan
must have sufficed to place it, to a discerning eye,
in a very favorable light, I shall here content myself
with offering only some supplementary remarks,
principally with a view to the objections which have
been just stated.

The Federalist 233

With regard to the intermixture of powers, I shall
rely upon the explanations already given in other
places, of the true sense of the rule upon which that
objection is founded; and shall take it for granted,
as an inference from them, that the union of the
Executive with the Senate, in the article of treaties,
is no infringement of that rule. I venture to add,
that the particular nature of the power of making
treaties indicates a peculiar propriety in that union.
Though several writers on the subject of govern-
ment place that power in the class of executive
authorities, yet this is evidently an arbitrary dis-
position; for if we attend carefully to its operation,
it will be found to partake more of the legislative
than of the executive character, though it does not
seem strictly to fall within the definition of either
of them. The essence of the legislative authority is
to enact laws, or, in other words, to prescribe rules
for the regulation of the society ; while the execution
of the laws, and the employment of the common
strength, either for this purpose or for the common
defence, seem to comprise all the functions of the
executive magistrate. The power of making treat-
ies is, plainly, neither the one nor the other. It re-
lates neither to the execution of the subsisting laws,
nor to the enaction of new ones; and still less to an
exertion of the common strength. Its objects are
CONTRACTS with foreign nations, which have the force
of law, but derive it from the obligations of good
faith. They are not rules prescribed by the sover-
eign to the subject, but agreements between sover-
eign and sovereign. The power in question seems

234 Alexander Hamilton

therefore to form a distinct department, and to be-
long, properly, neither to the legislative nor to the
executive. The qualities elsewhere detailed as in-
dispensable in the management of foreign negotia-
tions, point out the Executive as the most fit agent
in those transactions; while the vast importance of
the trust, and the operation of treaties as laws, plead
strongly for the participation of the whole or a por-
tion of the legislative body in the office of making
them.

However proper or safe it may be in governments
where the executive magistrate is an hereditary
monarch, to commit to him the entire power of
making treaties, it would be utterly unsafe and im-
proper to intrust that power to an elective magis-
trate of four years' duration. It has been remarked,
upon another occasion, and the remark is unques-
tionably just, that an hereditary monarch, though
often the oppressor of his people, has personally too
much stake in the government to be in any material
danger of being corrupted by foreign powers. But
a man raised from the station of a private citizen to
the rank of chief magistrate, possessed of a moderate
or slender fortune, and looking forward to a period
not very remote when he may probably be obliged
to return to the station from which he was taken,
might sometimes be under temptations to sacrifice
his duty to his interest, which it would require super-
lative virtue to withstand. An avaricious man
might be tempted to betray the interests of the
state to the acquisition of wealth. An ambitious
man might make his own aggrandizement, by the

The Federalist 235

aid of a foreign power, the price of his treachery to
his constituents. The history of human conduct
does not warrant that exalted opinion of human
virtue which would make it wise in a nation to com-
mit interests of so delicate and momentous a kind,
as those which concern its intercourse with the rest
of the world, to the sole disposal of a magistrate
created and circumstanced as would be a President
of the United States.

To have intrusted the power of making treaties to
the Senate alone, would have been to relinquish the
benefits of the constitutional agency of the President
in the conduct of foreign negotiations. It is true
that the Senate would, in that case, have the option
of employing him in this capacity, but they would
also have the option of letting it alone, and pique or
cabal might induce the latter rather than the former.
Besides this, the ministerial servant of the Senate
could not be expected to enjoy the confidence and
respect of foreign powers in the same degree with
the constitutional representatives of the nation, and,
of course, would not be able to act with an equal
degree of weight of efficacy. While the Union
would, from this cause, lose a considerable advan-
tage in the management of its external concerns, the
people would lose the additional security which
would result from the cooperation of the Executive.
Though it would be imprudent to confide in him
solely so important a trust, yet it cannot be doubted
that his participation would materially add to the
safety of the society. It must indeed be clear to
a demonstration that the joint possession of the

236 Alexander Hamilton

power in question, by the President and Senate,
would afford a greater prospect of security, than the
separate possession of it by either of them. And
whoever has maturely weighed the circumstances
which must concur in the appointment of a Presi-
dent, will be satisfied that the office will always bid
fair to be filled by men of such characters as to ren-
der their concurrence in the formation of treaties
peculiarly desirable, as well on the score of wisdom,
as on that of integrity.

The remarks made in a former number, which have
been alluded to in another part of this paper, will
apply with conclusive force against the admission of
the House of Representatives to a share in the
formation of treaties. The fluctuating and, taking
its future increase into the account, the multitu-
dinous composition of that body, forbid us to expect
in it those qualities which are essential to the proper
execution of such a trust. Accurate and compre-
hensive knowledge of foreign politics; a steady and
systematic adherence to the same views ; a nice and
uniform sensibility to national character; decision,
secrecy, and despatch, are incompatible with the
genius of a body so variable and so numerous. The
very complication of the business, by introducing a
necessity of the concurrence of so many different
bodies, would of itself afford a solid objection. The
greater frequency of the calls upon the House of
Representatives, and the greater length of time
which it would often be necessary to keep them to-
gether when convened, to obtain their sanction in
the progressive stages of a treaty, would be a source

The Federalist 237

of so great inconvenience and expense as alone ought
to condemn the project.

The only objection which remains to be canvassed,
is that which would substitute the proportion of two
thirds of all the members composing the senatorial
body, to that of two thirds of the members present.
It has been shown, under the second head of our
inquiries, that all provisions which require more
than the majority of any body to its resolutions,
have a direct tendency to embarrass the operations
of the government, and an indirect one to subject
the sense of the majority to that of the minority.
This consideration seems sufficient to determine our
opinion, that the convention have gone as far in the
endeavor to secure the advantage of numbers in the
formation of treaties as could have been reconciled
either with the activity of the public councils or
with a reasonable regard to the major sense of the
community. If two thirds of the whole number of
members had been required, it would, in many cases,
from the non-attendance of a part, amount in prac-
tice to a necessity of unanimity. And the history
of every political establishment in which this prin-
ciple has prevailed, is a history of impotence, per-
plexity, and disorder. Proofs of this position might
be adduced from the examples of the Roman Trib-
uneship, the Polish Diet, and the States- General of
the Netherlands, did not an example at home render
foreign precedents unnecessary.

To require a fixed proportion of the whole body
would not, in all probability, contribute to the ad-
vantages of a numerous agency, better than merely

238 Alexander Hamilton

to require a proportion of the attending members.
The former, by making a determinate number at
all times requisite to a resolution,' diminishes the
motives to punctual attendance. The latter, by
making the capacity of the body to depend on a pro-
portion which may be varied by the absence or pres-
ence of a single member, has the contrary effect.
And as, by promoting punctuality, it tends to keep
the body complete, there is great likelihood that its
resolutions would generally be dictated by as great
a number in this case as in the other; while there
would be much fewer occasions of delay. It ought
not to be forgotten that, under the existing Confeder-
ation, two members may, and usually do, represent
a State; whence it happens that Congress, who now
are solely invested with all the powers of the Union,
rarely consist of a greater number of persons than
would compose the intended Senate. If we add to
this, that as the members vote by States, and that
where there is only a single member present from a
State, his vote is lost, it will justify a supposition
that the active voices in the Senate, where the mem-
bers are to vote individually, would rarely fall short
in number of the active voices in the existing Con-
gress. When, in addition to these considerations,
we take into view the cooperation of the President,
we shall not hesitate to infer that the people of
America would have greater security against an im-
proper use of the power of making treaties, under
the new Constitution, than they now enjoy under the

' In the revised text: "The former by increasing the difficulty of
resolutions disagreeable to the minority."

The Federalist 239

Confederation. And when we proceed still one step
further, and look forward to the probable aug-
mentation of the Senate, by the erection of new
States, we shall not only perceive ample ground of
confidence in the sufficiency of the members to whose
agency that power will be intrusted, but we shall
probably be led to conclude that a body more nu-
merous than the Senate would be likely to become,
would be very little fit for the proper discharge of
the trust.

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Tuesday, April i, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXVI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The President is ''to nominate ^ and, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint
ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls,
judges of the Supreme Court, and all other officers
of the United States whose appointments are not
otherwise provided for in the Constitution. But
the Congress may by law vest the appointment of
such inferior officers as they think proper, in the
President alone, or in the courts of law, or in the
heads of departments. The President shall have
power to fill up all vacancies which may happen
during the recess of the Senate, by granting commis-
sions which shall expire at the end of their next
session.'*

240 Alexander Hamilton

It has been observed in a former paper, that " the
true test of a good government is its aptitude and
tendency to produce a good administration." If
the justness of this observation be admitted, the
mode of appointing the officers of the United States
contained in the foregoing clauses, must, when ex-
amined, be allowed to be entitled to particular com-
mendation. It is not easy to conceive a plan better
calculated than this to promote a judicious choice of
men for filling the offices of the Union; and it will
not need proof, that on this point must essentially
depend the character of its administration.

It will be agreed on all hands, that the power of
appointment, in ordinary cases, ought to be modi-
fied in one of three ways. It ought either to be
vested in a single man, or in a select assembly of a
moderate number; or in a single man, with the con-
currence of such an assembly. The exercise of it
by the people at large will be readily admitted to be
impracticable ; as waiving every other consideration,
it would leave them little time to do any thing else.
When, therefore, mention is made in the subsequent
reasonings, of an assembly or body of men, what is
said must be understood to relate to a select body or
assembly, of the description already given. The
people collectively, from their number and from their
dispersed situation, cannot be regulated in their
movements by that systematic spirit of cabal and
intrigue, which will be urged as the chief objections
to reposing the power in question in a body of men.

Those who have themselves reflected upon the
subject, or who have attended to the observations

The Federalist 241

made in other parts of these papers, in relation to the
appointment of the President, will, I presume, agree
to the position, that there would always be great
probability of having the place supplied by a man
of abilities, at least respectable. Premising this, I
proceed to lay it down as a rule, that one man of
discernment is better fitted to analyze and estimate
the peculiar qualities adapted to particular offices,
than a body of men of equal or perhaps even of
superior discernment

The so.e and undivided responsibility of one man
will naturally beget a livelier sense of duty and a
more exact regard to reputation. He will, on this
account, feel himself under stronger obligations, and
more interested to investigate with care the qualities
requisite to the stations to be filled, and to prefer
with impartiality the persons who may have the
fairest pretensions to them. He will have fewer
personal attachments to gratify, than a body of men
who may each be supposed to have an equal num-
ber; and will be so much the less liable to be misled
by the sentiments of friendship and of affection.
A single well-directed man, by a single understand-
ing, cannot be distracted and warped by that divers-
ity of views, feelings, and interests, which frequently
distract and warp the resolutions of a collective
body. There is nothing so apt to agitate the pas-
sions of mankind as personal considerations, whether
they relate to ourselves or to others, who are to be
the objects of our choice or preference. Hence, in
every exercise of the power of appointing to offices
by an assembly of men, we must expect to see a full

VOL. XII.— 16.

242 Alexander Hamilton

display of all the private and party likings and dis-
likes, partialities and antipathies, attachments and
animosities, which are felt by those who compose
the assembly. The choice which may at any time
happen to be made under such circumstances, will
of course be the result either of a victory gained by
one party over the other, or of a compromise between
the parties. In either case, the intrinsic merit of
the candidate will be too often out of sight. In the
first, the qualifications best adapted to uniting the
suffrages of the party, will be more considered than
those which fit the person for the station. In the
last, the coalition will commonly turn upon some
interested equivalent: ''Give us the man we wish
for this office, and you shall have the one you wish
for that." This will be the usual condition of
the bargain. And it will rarely happen that the
advancement of the public service will be the
primary object either of party victories or of party
negotiations.

The truth of the principles here advanced seems to
have been felt by the most intelligent of those who
have found fault with the provision made, in this re-
spect, by the convention. They contend that the
President ought solely to have been authorized to
make the appointments under the federal govern-
ment. But it is easy to show, that every advantage
to be expected from such an arrangement would, in
substance, be derived from the power of nomination,
which is proposed to be conferred upon him; while
several disadvantages which might attend the ab-
solute power of appointment in the hands of that

The Federalist 243

officer would be avoided. In the act of nomination,
his judgment alone would be exercised; and as it
would be his sole duty to point out the man who,
with the approbation of the Senate, should fill an
office, his responsibility would be as complete as if
he were to make the final appointment. There can,
in this view, be no difference between nominating
and appointing. The same motives which would influ-
ence a proper discharge of his duty in one case, would
exist in the other. And as no man could be appointed
but on his previous nomination, every man who
might be appointed would be, in fact, his choice.

But might not his nomination be overruled? I
grant it might, yet this could only be to make place
for another nomination by himself. The person
ultimately appointed must be the object of his pre-
ference, though perhaps not in the first degree. It
is also not very probable that his nomination would
often be overruled. The Senate could not be
tempted, by the preference they might feel to an-
other, to reject the one proposed; because they could
not assure themselves, that the person they might
wish would be brought forward by a second or by
any subsequent nomination. They could not even
be certain, that a future nomination would present
a candidate in any degree more acceptable to them ;
and as their dissent might ca:st a kind of stigma upon
the individual rejected, and might have the appear-
ance of a reflection upon the judgment of the chief
magistrate, it is not likely that their sanction would
often be refused, where there were not special and
strong reasons for the refusal.

244 Alexander Hamilton

To what purpose then require the cooperation of
the Senate? I answer, that the necessity of their
concurrence would have a powerful, though, in gen-
eral, a silent operation. It would be an excellent
check upon a spirit of favoritism in the President,
and would tend greatly to prevent the appoint-
ment of unfit characters from State prejudice, from
family connection, from personal attachment, or
from a view to popularity. In addition to this, it
would be an efficacious source of stability in the
administration.

It will readily be comprehended, that a man who
had himself the sole disposition of offices, would be
governed much more by his private inclinations and
interests, than when he was bound to submit the
propriety of his choice to the discussion and deter-
mination of a different and independent body, and
that body an entire branch of the legislature. The
possibility of rejection would be a strong motive to
care in proposing. The danger to his own reputation
and, in the case of an elective magistrate, to his
political existence, from betraying a spirit of favor-
itism, or an unbecoming pursuit of popularity, to the
observation of a body whose opinion would have
great weight in forming that of the public, could not
fail to operate as a barrier to the one and to the other.
He would be both ashamed and afraid to bring for-
ward, for the most distinguished or lucrative sta-
tions, candidates who had no other merit than that
of coming from the same State to which he par-
ticularly belonged, or of being in some way or other
personally allied to him, or of possessing the neces-

The Federalist 245

sary insignificance and pliancy to render them the
obsequious instruments of his pleasure.

To this reasoning it has been objected that the
President, by the influence of the power of nomina-
tion, may secure the complaisance of the Senate to
his views. This supposition of universal venality in
human nature is little less an error in political reason-
ing, than the supposition of universal rectitude. The
institution of delegated power implies, that there is
a portion of virtue and honor among mankind, which
may be a reasonable foundation of confidence; and
experience justifies the theory. It has been found
to exist in the most corrupt periods of the most
corrupt governments. The venality of the British
House of Commons has been long a topic of accusa-
tion against that body, in the country to which they
belong, as well as in this; and it cannot be doubted
that the chaige is, to a considerable extent, well
founded. But it is as little to be doubted, that
there is always a large proportion of the body, which
consists of independent and public-spirited men, who
have an influential weight in the councils of the na-
tion. Hence it is (the present reign not excepted)
that the sense of that body is often seen to control
the inclinations of the monarch, both with regard to
men and to measures. Though it might therefore
be allowable to suppose thiat the Executive might
occasionally influence some individuals in the Sen-
ate, yet the supposition, that he could in general
purchase the integrity of the whole body, would be
forced and improbable. A man disposed to view
human nature as it is, without either flattering its

246 Alexander Hamilton

virtues or exaggerating its vices, will see sufficient
ground of confidence in the probity of the Senate, to
rest satisfied, not only that it will be impracticable
to the Executive to corrupt or seduce a majority of
its members, but that the necessity of its coopera-
tion, in the business of appointments, will be a con-
siderable and salutary restraint upon the conduct of
that magistrate. Nor is the integrity of the Senate
the only reliance. The Constitution has provided
some important guards against the danger of execu-
tive influence upon the legislative body: it declares
that " No senator or representative shall, during the
time for which he was elected, be appointed to any
civil office under the United States, which shall have
been created, or the emoluments whereof shall have
been increased, during such time; and no person,
holding any office under the United States, shall be
a member of either house during his continuance in
office."

PUBLIUS.

From the New York Packet, Friday, April 4, 1788
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXVII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

It has been mentioned as one of the advantages
to be expected from the cooperation of the Senate,
in the business of appointments, that it would con-
tribute to the stability of the administration. The
consent of that body would be necessary to displace
as well as to appoint. A change of the Chief Magis-

The Federalist 247

trate, therefore, would not occasion so violent or so
general a revolution in the officers of the government
as might be expected, if he were the sole disposer of
offices. Where a man in any station had given
satisfactory evidence of his fitness for it, a new
President would be restrained from attempting a
change in favor of a person more agreeable to him,
by the apprehension that a discountenance of the
Senate might frustrate the attempt, and bring some
degree of discredit upon himself. Those who can
best estimate the value of a steady administration,
will be most disposed to prize a provision which con-
nects the official existence of public men with the
approbation or disapprobation of that body which,
from the greater permanency of its own composition,
will in all probability be less subject to inconstancy
than any other member of the government.

To this union of the Senate with the President, in
the article of appointments, it has in some cases been
suggested that it would serve to give the President
an undue influence over the Senate, and in others
that it would have an opposite tendency, — a strong
proof that neither suggestion is true.

To state the first in its proper form, is to refute it.
It amounts to this: the President would have an
improper influence over the Senate, because the Sen-
ate would have the power of restraining him. This
is an absurdity in terms. It cannot admit of a
doubt that the entire power of appointment would
enable him much more effectually to establish a
dangerous empire over that body, than a mere
power of nomination subject to their control.

248 Alexander Hamilton

Let us take a view of the converse of the proposi-
tion: ''the Senate would influence the Executive.'*
As I have had occasion to remark in several other
instances, the indistinctness of the objection forbids
a precise answer. In what manner is this influence
to be exerted? In relation to what objects? The
power of influencing a person, in the sense in which
it is here used, must imply a power of conferring a
benefit upon him. How could the Senate confer a
benefit upon the President by the manner of em-
ploying their right of negative upon his nominations ?
If it be said they might sometimes gratify him by an
acquiescence in a favorite choice, when public mo-
tives might dictate a different conduct, I answer,
that the instances in which the President could be
personally interested in the result, would be too few
to admit of his being materially affected by the com-
pliances of the Senate. The power which can
originate the disposition of honors and emoluments,
is more likely to attract than to be attracted by the
POWER which can merely obstruct their course. If
by influencing the President be meant restraining
him, this is precisely what must have been intended.
And it has been shown that the restraint would be
salutary, at the same time that it would not be such
as to destroy a single advantage to be looked for
from the uncontrolled agency of that Magistrate.
The right of nomination would produce all the good
of that of appointment, and would in a great measure
avoid its evils.

Upon a comparison of the plan for the appoint-
ment of the officers of the proposed government with

The Federalist 249

that which is estabHshed by the constitution of this
State, a decided preference must be given to the
former. In that plan the power of nomination is un-
equivocally vested in the Executive. And as there
would be a necessity for submitting each nomination
to the judgment of an entire branch of the legisla-
ture, the circumstances attending an appointment,
from the mode of conducting it, would naturally
become matters of notoriety ; and the public would
be at no loss to determine what part had been per-
formed by the different actors. The blame of a bad
nomination would fall upon the President singly and
absolutely. The censure of rejecting a good one
would lie entirely at the door of the Senate; aggra-
vated by the consideration of their having counter-
acted the good intentions of the Executive. If aii
ill appointment should be made, the Executive for
nominating, and the Senate for approving, would
participate, though in different degrees, in the op-
probrium and disgrace.

The reverse of all this characterizes the manner of
appointment in this State. The council of appoint-
ment consists of from three to five persons, of whom
the governor is always one. This small body, shut
up in a private apartment, impenetrable to the pub-
lic eye, proceed to the execution of the trust com-
mitted to them. It is known that the governor
claims the right of nomination, upon the strength
of some ambiguous expressions in the constitution;
but it is not known to what extent, or in what man-
ner he exercises it; nor upon what occasions he
is contradicted or opposed. The censure of a bad

250 Alexander Hamilton

appointraent, on account of the uncertainty of its
author, and for want of a determinate object, has
neither poignancy nor duration. And while an un-
bounded field for cabal and intrigue lies open, all
idea of responsibility is lost. The most that the
public can know, is that the governor claims the
right of nomination; that two out of the inconsider-
able number of jour men can too often be managed
without much difficulty; that if some of the mem-
bers of a particular council should happen to be of
an uncomplying character, it is frequently not im-
possible to get rid of their opposition by regulating
the times of meeting in such a manner as to render
their attendance inconvenient; and that from what-
ever cause it may proceed, a great number of very
improper appointments are from time to time made.
Whether a governor of this State avails himself of
the ascendant he must necessarily have, in this deli-
cate and important part of the administration, to
prefer to offices men who are best qualified for them,
or whether he prostitutes that advantage to the ad-
vancement of persons whose chief merit is their im-
plicit devotion to his will, and to the support of a
despicable and dangerous system of personal influ-
ence, are questions which, unfortunately for the
community, can only be the subjects of speculation
and conjecture.

Every mere council of appointment, however con-
stituted, will be a conclave, in which cabal and in-
trigue will have their full scope. Their number,
without an unwarrantable increase of expense, can-
not be large enough to preclude a facility of com-

The Federalist 251

bination. And as each member will have his friends
and connections to provide for, the desire of mutual
gratification will beget a scandalous bartering of
votes and bargaining for places. The private at-
tachments of one man might easily be satisfied ; but
to satisfy the private attachments of a dozen, or of
twenty men, would occasion a monopoly of all the
principal employments of the government in a few
families, and would lead more directly to an aristo-
cracy or an oligarchy than any measure that could be
contrived. If, to avoid an accumulation of offices,
there was to be a frequent change in the persons who
were to compose the council, this would involve the
mischiefs of a mutable administration in their full
extent. Such a council would also be more liable to
executive influence than the Senate, because they
would be fewer in number, and would act less imme-
diately under the public inspection. Such a council,
in fine, as a substitute for the plan of the convention,
would be productive of an increase of expense, a
multiplication of the evils which spring from favor-
itism and intrigue in the distribution of public hon-
ors, a decrease of stability in the administration of
the government, and a diminution of the security
against an undue influence of the Executive. And
yet such a council has been warmly contended
for as an essential amendment in the proposed
Constitution.

I could not with propriety conclude my observa-
tions on the subject of appointments without taking
notice of a scheme for which there have appeared
some, though but few advocates; I mean that of

252 Alexander Hamilton

uniting the House of Representatives in the power
of making them. I shall, however, do little more
than mention it, as I cannot imagine that it is likely
to gain the countenance of any considerable part of
the community. A body so fluctuating and at the
same time so numerous, can never be deemed proper
for the exercise of that power. Its unfitness will
appear manifest to all, when it is recollected that in
half a century it may consist of three or four hundred
persons. All the advantages of the stability, both
of the executive and of the Senate, would be de-
feated by this union, and infinite delays and em-
barrassments would be occasioned. The example
of most of the States in their local constitutions en-
courages us to reprobate the idea.

The only remaining powers of the Executive are
comprehended in giving information to Congress of
the state of the Union; in recommending to their
consideration such measures as he shall judge ex-
pedient; in convening them, or either branch, upon
extraordinary occasions; in adjourning them when
they cannot themselves agree upon the time of ad-
journment ; in receiving ambassadors and other pub-
lic ministers; in faithfully executing the laws; and
in commissioning all the officers of the United States.

Except some cavils about the power of convening
either house of the legislature, and that of receiving
ambassadors, no objection has been made to this
class of authorities; nor could they possibly admit
of any. It required, indeed, an insatiable avidity
for censure to invent exceptions to the parts which
have been excepted to. In regard to the power of

The Federalist 253

convening either house of the legislature, I shall
barely remark, that in respect to the Senate at least,
we can readily discover a good reason for it. As
this body has a concurrent power with the Execu-
tive in the article of treaties, it might often be neces-
sary to call it together with a view to this object,
when it would be unnecessary and improper to
convene the House of Representatives. As to the
reception of ambassadors, what I have said in a
former paper will furnish a sufficient answer.

We have now completed a survey of the structure
and powers of the executive department, which, I
have endeavored to show, combines, as far as re-
publican principles will admit, all the requisites to
energy. The remaining inquiry is: Does it also
combine the requisites to safety, in a republican
sense, — a due dependence on the people, a due re-
sponsibility? The answer to this question has been
anticipated in the investigation of its other charac-
teristics, and is satisfactorily deducible from these
circumstances; from the election of the President
once in four years by persons immediately chosen
by the people for that purpose; and from his being
at all times liable to impeachment, trial, dismission
from office, incapacity to serve in any other, and to
forfeiture of life and estate by subsequent prosecu-
tion in the common course of law. But these pre-
cautions, great as they are, are not the only ones
which the plan of the convention has provided in
favor of the public security. In the only instances
in which the abuse of the executive authority was
materially to be feared, the Chief Magistrate of the

254 Alexander Hamilton

United States would, by that plan, be subjected to
the control of a branch of the legislative body.
What more could be desired by an enlightened and
reasonable people?

PUBLIUS.

From McLean's Edition, New York, M.DCC.LXXXVIII
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXVIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

We proceed now to an examination of the judi-
ciary department of the proposed government.

In unfolding the defects of the existing Confedera-
tion, the utility and necessity of a federal judicature
have been clearly pointed out. It is the less neces-
sary to recapitulate the considerations there urged,
as the propriety of the institution in the abstract is
not disputed; the only questions which have been
raised being relative to the manner of constituting
it, and to its extent. To these points, therefore, our
observations shall be confined.

The manner of constituting it seems to embrace
these several objects: ist. The mode of appointing
the judges. 2d. The tenure by which they are to
hold their places. 3d. The partition of the judiciary
authority between different courts, and their rela-
tions to each other.

First. As to the mode of appointing the judges;
this is the same with that of appointing the officers
of the Union in general, and has been so fully dis-

The Federalist 255

cussed in the two last numbers, that nothing can be
said here which would not be useless repetition.

Second. As to the tenure by which the judges are
to hold their places: this chiefly concerns their
duration in office; the provisions for their support;
the precautions for their responsibility.

According to the plan of the convention, all
judges who may be appointed by the United States
are to hold their offices during good behavior; which
is conformable to the most approved of the State
constitutions, and among the rest, to that of this
State. Its propriety having been drawn into ques-
tion by the adversaries of that plan, is no light
symptom of the rage for objection, which disorders
their imaginations and judgments. The standard
of good behavior for the continuance in office of the
judicial magistracy, is certainly one of the most
valuable of the modern improvements in the prac-
tice of government. In a monarchy it is an excel-
lent barrier to the despotism of the prince ; in a
republic it is a no less excellent barrier to the en-
croachments and oppressions of the representative
body. And it is the best expedient which can be
devised in any government, to secure a steady, up-
right, and impartial administration of the laws.

Whoever attentively considers the different de-
partments of power must perceive, that, in a govern-
ment in which they are separated from each other,
the judiciary, from the nature of its functions, will
always be the least dangerous to the political rights
of the Constitution; because it will be least in a
capacity to annoy or injure them. The Executive

256 Alexander Hamilton

not only dispenses the honors, but holds the sword
of the community. The legislature not only com-
mands the purse, but prescribes the rules by which
the duties and rights of every citizen are to be regu-
lated. The judiciary, on the contrary, has no influ-
ence over either the sword or the purse ; no direction
either of the strength or of the wealth of the society;
and can take no active resolution whatever. It
may truly be said to have neither force nor will,
but merely judgment; and must ultimately depend
upon the aid of the executive arm even for the
efficacy of its judgments.

This simple view of the matter suggests several
important consequences. It proves incontestably,
that the judiciary is beyond comparison the weakest
of the three departments of power ' ; that it can
never attack with success either of the other two;
and that all possible care is requisite to enable it to
defend itself against their attacks. It equally
proves, that though individual oppression may now
and then proceed from the courts of justice, the
general liberty of the people can never be endan-
gered from that quarter; I mean so long as the
judiciary remains truly distinct from both the legis-
lature and the Executive. For I agree, that "there
is no liberty, if the power of judging be not separated
from the legislative and executive powers." * And
it proves, in the last place, that as liberty can have
nothing to fear from the judiciary alone, but would

* The celebrated Montesqtiieu, speaking of them, says: "Of the
three powers above mentioned, the judiciary is next to nothing." —
Spirit of Laws, vol. i., page 186. — Publius.

"Idem, page 181. — Publius.

The Federalist 257

have every thing to fear from its union with either
of the other departments; that as all the effects of
such a union must ensue from a dependence of the
former on the latter, notwithstanding a nominal and
apparent separation ; that as, from the natural feeble-
ness of the judiciary, it is in continual jeopardy of
being overpowered, awed, or influenced by its co-
ordinate branches; and that as nothing can con-
tribute so much to its firmness and independence as
permanency in office, this quality may therefore be
justly regarded as an indispensable ingredient in its
constitution, and, in a great measure, as the citadel
of the public justice and the public security.

The complete independence of the courts of justice
is peculiarly essential in a limited Constitution. By
a limited Constitution, I understand one which con-
tains certain specified exceptions to the legislative
authority; such, for instance, as that it shall pass
no bills of attainder, no ex-post-facto laws, and the
like. Limitations of this kind can be preserved in
practice no other way than through the medium of
courts of justice, whose duty it must be to declare
all acts contrary to the manifest tenor of the Con-
stitution void. Without this, all the reservations
of particular rights or privileges would amount to
nothing.

Some perplexity respecting. the rights of the courts
to pronounce legislative acts void, because contrary
to the Constitution, has arisen from an imagination
that the doctrine would imply a superiority of the
judiciary to the legislative power. It is urged that
the authority which can declare the acts of another

VOL. XII.— 17.

258 Alexander Hamilton

void, must necessarily be superior to the one whose
acts may be declared void. As this doctrine is of
great importance in all the American constitutions,
a brief discussion of the ground on which it rests
cannot be unacceptable.

There is no position which depends on clearer prin-
ciples, than that every act of a delegated authority,
contrary to the tenor of the commission under which
it is exercised, is void. No legislative act, there-
fore, contrary to the Constitution, can be valid. To
deny this, would be to affirm, that the deputy is
greater than his principal ; that the servant is above
his master; that the representatives of the people
are superior to the people themselves; that men
acting by virtue of powers, may do not only what
their powers do not authorize, but what they forbid.

If it be said that the legislative body are them-
selves the constitutional judges of their own powers,
and that the construction they put upon them is
conclusive upon the other departments, it may be
answered, that this cannot be the natural presump-
tion, where it is not to be collected from any par-
ticular provisions in the Constitution. It is not
otherwise to be supposed, that the Constitution
could intend to enable the representatives of the
people to substitute their will to that of their con-
stituents. It is far more rational to suppose, that
the courts were designed to be an intermediate body
between the people and the legislature, in order,
among other things, to keep the latter within the
limits assigned to their authority. The interpreta-
tion of the laws is the proper and peculiar province

The Federalist 259

of the courts. A constitution is, in fact, and must
be regarded by the judges, as a fundamental law.
It therefore belongs to them to ascertain its meaning,
as well as the meaning of any particular act proceed-
ing from the legislative body. If there should hap-
pen to be an irreconcilable variance between the two,
that which has the superior obligation and validity
ought, of course, to be preferred; or, in other words,
the Constitution ought to be preferred to the statute,
the intention of the people to the intention of their
agents.

Nor does this conclusion by any means suppose a
superiority of the judicial to the legislative power.
It only supposes that the power of the people is
superior to both; and that where the will of the
legislature, declared in its statutes, stands in op-
position to that of the people, declared in the Con-
stitution, the judges ought to be governed by the
latter rather than the former. They ought to regu-
late their decisions by the fundamental laws, rather
than by those which are not fundamental.

This exercise of judicial discretion, in determining
between two contradictory laws, is exemplified in a
familiar instance. It not uncommonly happens,
that there are two statutes existing at one time,
clashing in whole or in part with each other, and
neither of them containing any repealing clause or
expression. In such a case, it is the province of the
courts to liquidate and fix their meaning and opera-
tion. So far as they can, by any fair construction,
be reconciled to each other, reason and law conspire
to dictate that this should be done; where this is

26o Alexander Hamilton

impracticable, it becomes a matter of necessity to
give effect to one, in exclusion of the other. The
rule which has obtained in the courts for determin-
ing their relative validity is, that the last in order of
time shall be preferred to the first. But this is a
mere rule of construction, not derived from any
positive law, but from the nature and reason of the
thing. It is a rule not enjoined upon the courts by
legislative provision, but adopted by themselves, as
consonant to truth and propriety, for the direction
of their conduct as interpreters of the law. They
thought it reasonable, that between the interfering
acts of an equal authority, that which was the last
indication of its will should have the preference.

But in regard to the interfering acts of a superior
and subordinate authority, of an original and de-
rivative power, the nature and reason of the thing
indicate the converse of that rule as proper to be
followed. They teach us that the prior act of a
superior ought to be preferred to the subsequent act
of an inferior and subordinate authority; and that
accordingly, whenever a particular statute contra-
venes the Constitution, it will be the duty of the
judicial tribunals to adhere to the latter and dis-
regard the former.

It can be of no weight to say that the courts, on
the pretence of a repugnancy, may substitute their
own pleasure to the constitutional intentions of the
legislature. This might as well happen in the case
of two contradictory statutes; or it might as well
happen in every adjudication upon any single statute.
The courts must declare the sense of the law ; and if

The Federalist 261

they should be disposed to exercise will instead of
JUDGMENT, the consequence would equally be the
substitution of their pleasure to that of the legisla-
tive body. The observation, if it prove any thing,
would prove that there ought to be no judges dis-
tinct from that body.

If, then, the courts of justice are to be considered
as the bulwarks of a limited Constitution against
legislative encroachments, this consideration will
afford a strong argument for the permanent tenure
of judicial offices, since nothing will contribute so
much as this to that independent spirit in the judges
which must be essential to the faithful performance
of so arduous a duty.

This independence of the judges is equally re-
quisite to guard the Constitution and the rights of
individuals from the effects of those ill humors, which
the arts of designing men, or the influence of par-
ticular conjunctures, sometimes disseminate among
the people themselves, and which, though they
speedily give place to better information, and more
deliberate reflection, have a tendency, in the mean-
time, to occasion dangerous innovations in the gov-
ernment, and serious oppressions of the minor party
in the community. Though I trust the friends of
the proposed Constitution will never concur with its
enemies,' in questioning that fundamental principle
of republican government, which admits the right
of the people to alter or abolish the established
Constitution, whenever they find it inconsistent with

^Vide " Protest of the Minority of the Convention of Pennsylvania,"
Martin's Speech, etc. — Publius.

262 Alexander Hamilton

their happiness, yet it is not to be inferred from this
principle, that the representatives of the people,
whenever a momentary inclination happens to lay
hold of a majority of their constituents, incompatible
with the provisions in the existing Constitution,
would, on that account, be justifiable in a violation
of those provisions; or that the courts would be
under a greater obligation to connive at infractions
in this shape, than when they had proceeded wholly
from the cabals of the representative body. Until
the people have, by some solemn and authoritative
act, annulled or changed the established form, it is
binding upon themselves collectively, as well as in-
dividually; and no presumption, or even knowledge,
of their sentiments, can warrant their representa-
tives in a departure from it, prior to such an act.
But it is easy to see, that it would require an un-
common portion of fortitude in the judges to do
their duty as faithful guardians of the Constitution,
where legislative invasions of it had been instigated
by the major voice of the community.

But it is not with a view to infractions of the Con-
stitution only, that the independence of the judges
may be an essential safeguard against the effects of
occasional ill humors in the society. These some-
times extend no farther than to the injury of the
private rights of particular classes of citizens, by
unjust and partial laws. Here also the firmness of
the judicial magistracy is of vast importance in
mitigating the severity and confining the operation
of such laws. It not only serves to moderate the
immediate mischiefs of those which may have been

The Federalist 263

passed, but it operates as a check upon the legisla-
tive body in passing them; who, perceiving that
obstacles to the success of iniquitous intention are to
be expected from the scruples of the courts, are in a
manner compelled, by the very motives of the in-
justice they meditate, to qualify their attempts.
This is a circumstance calculated to have more in-
fluence upon the character of our governments, than
but few may be aware of. The benefits of the in-
tegrity and moderation of the judiciary have already
been felt in more States than one; and though they
may have displeased those whose sinister expecta-
tions they may have disappointed, they must have
commanded the esteem and applause of all the
virtuous and disinterested. Considerate men, of
every description, ought to prize whatever will tend
to beget or fortify that temper in the courts; as no
man can be sure that he may not be to-morrow the
victim of a spirit of injustice, by which he may be
a gainer to-day. And every man must now feel, that
the inevitable tendency of such a spirit is to sap the
foundations of public and private confidence, and to
introduce in its stead universal distrust and distress.
That inflexible and uniform adherence to the rights
of the Constitution, and of individuals, which we
perceive to be indispensable in the courts of justice,
can certainly not be expected from judges who hold
their offices by a temporary commission. Periodical
appointments, however regulated, or by whomsoever
made, would, in some way or other, be fatal to their
necessary independence. If the power of making
them was committed either to the Executive or

264 Alexander Hamilton

legislature, there would be danger of an improper
complaisance to the branch which possessed it; if
to both, there would be an unwillingness to hazard
the displeasure of either; if to the people, or to per-
sons chosen by them for the special purpose, there
would be too great a disposition to consult popularity
to justify a reliance that nothing would be consulted
but the Constitution and the laws.

There is yet a further and a weightier reason for
the permanency of the judicial offices, which is de-
ducible from the nature of the qualifications they
require. It has been frequently remarked, with
great propriety, that a voluminous code of laws is
one of the inconveniences necessarily connected with
the advantages of a free government. To avoid an
arbitrary discretion in the courts, it is indispensable
that they should be bound down by strict rules and
precedents, which serve to define and point out
their duty in every particular case that comes before
them; and it will readily be conceived from the
variety of controversies which grow out of the folly
and wickedness of mankind, that the records of
those precedents must unavoidably swell to a very
considerable bulk, and must demand long and la-
borious study to acquire a competent knowledge of
them. Hence it is, that there can be but few men
in the society who will have sufficient skill in the laws
to qualify them for the stations of judges. And
making the proper deductions for the ordinary de-
pravity of human nature, the number must be still
smaller of those who unite the requisite integrity
with the requisite knowledge. These considerations

The Federalist 265

apprise us, that the government can have no great
option between fit character; and that a temporary-
duration in office, which would naturally discourage
such characters from quitting a lucrative line of
practice to accept a seat on the bench, would have a
tendency to throw the administration of justice into
hands less able, and less well qualified, to conduct it
with utility and dignity. In the present circum-
stances of this country, and in those in which it is
likely to be for a long time to come, the disadvan-
tages on this score would be greater than they may
at first sight appear; but it must be confessed, that
they are far inferior to those which present them-
selves under the other aspects of the subject.

Upon the whole, there can be no room to doubt
that the convention acted wisely in copying from the
models of those constitutions which have estab-
lished good behavior as the tenure of their judicial
offices, in point of duration; and that so far from
being blamable on this account, their plan would
have been inexcusably defective, if it had wanted
this important feature of good government. The
experience of Great Britain affords an illustrious
comment on the excellence of the institution.

PUBLIUS.

From McLean's Edition, New York, M.DCC.LXXXVIII
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXIX

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Next to permanency in office, nothing can con-
tribute more to the independence of the judges than

266 Alexander Hamilton

a fixed provision for their support. The remark
made in relation to the President is equally applica-
ble here. In the general course of human nature,
a power over a man's subsistence amounts to a power
over his will. And we can never hope to see realized
in practice, the complete separation of the judicial
from the legislative power, in any system which
leaves the former dependent for pecuniary resources
on the occasional grants of the latter. The enlight-
ened friends to good government in every State, have
seen cause to lament the want of precise and ex-
plicit precautions in the State constitutions on this
head. Some of these indeed have declared that
permanent ' salaries should be established for the
judges; but the experiment has in some instances
shown that such expressions are not sufficiently de-
finite to preclude legislative evasions. Something
still more positive and unequivocal has been evinced
to be requisite. The plan of the convention accord-
ingly has provided that the judges of the United
States '' shall at stated times receive for their services
a compensation which shall not be diminished dur-
ing their continuance in office."

This, all circumstances considered, is the most
eligible provision that could have been devised. It
will readily be understood that the fluctuations in
the value of money and in the state of society ren-
dered a fixed rate of compensation in the Constitu-
tion inadmissible. What might be extravagant
to-day, might in half a century become penurious and

^Vide "Constitution of Massachusetts," chapter 2, section i, article

13. PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 267

inadequate. It was therefore necessary to leave it
to the discretion of the legislature to vary its provi-
sions in conformity to the variations in circum-
stances, yet under such restrictions as to put it out
of the power of that body to change the condition of
the individual for the worse. A man may then be
sure of the ground upon which he stands, and can
never be deterred from his duty by the apprehension
of being placed in a less eligible situation. The
clause which has been quoted combines both advan-
tages. The salaries of judicial officers may from
time to time be altered, as occasion shall require, yet
so as never to lessen the allowance with which any
particular judge comes into office, in respect to him.
It will be observed that a difference has been made
by the convention between the compensation of the
President and of the judges. That of the former
can neither be increased nor diminished; that
of the latter can only not be diminished. This
probably arose from the difference in the duration
of the respective offices. As the President is to be
elected for no more than four years, it can rarely
happen that an adequate salary, fixed at the com-
mencement of that period, will not continue to be
such to its end. But with regard to the judges, who,
if they behave properly, will be secured in their
places for life, it may well happen, especially in the
early stages of the government, that a stipend, which
would be very sufficient at their first appointment,
would become too small in the progress of their service.
This provision for the support of the judges bears
every mark of prudence and efficacy ; and it may be

268 Alexander Hamilton

safely affirmed that, together with the permanent
tenure of their offices, it affords a better prospect of
their independence than is discoverable in the con-
stitutions of any of the States in regard to their own
judges.

The precautions for their responsibility are com-
prised in the article respecting impeachments. They
are liable to be impeached for malconduct by the
House of Representatives, and tried by the Senate;
and, if convicted, may be dismissed from office, and
disqualified for holding any other. This is the only
provision on the point which is consistent with the
necessary independence of the judicial character,
and is the only one which we find in our own Con-
stitution in respect to our own judges.

The want of a provision for removing the judges
on account of inability has been a subject of com-
plaint. But all considerate men will be sensible
that such a provision would either not be practised
upon or would be more liable to abuse than calculated
to answer any good purpose. The mensuration of
the faculties of the mind has, I believe, no place in
the catalogue of known arts. An attempt to fix the
boundary between the regions of ability and in-
ability, would much oftener give scope to personal
and party attachments and enmities than advance
the interests of justice or the public good. The
result, except in the case of insanity, must for the
most part be arbitrary; and insanity, without any
formal or express provision, may be safely pro-
nounced to be a virtual disqualification.

The constitution of New York, to avoid investiga-

The Federalist 269

tions that must forever be vague and dangerous, has
taken a particular age as the criterion of inability.
No man can be a judge beyond sixty. I believe there
are few at present who do not disapprove of this
provision. There is no station, in relation to which
it is less proper than to that of a judge. The de-
liberating and comparing faculties generally pre-
serve their strength much beyond that period in men
who survive it; and when, in addition to this cir-
cumstance, we consider how few there are who
outlive the season of intellectual vigor, and how
improbable it is that any considerable portion of
the bench, whether more or less numerous, should
be in such a situation at the same time, we shall be
ready to conclude that limitations of this sort have
little to recommend them. In a republic, where
fortunes are not affluent, and pensions not expe-
dient, the dismission of men from stations in which
they have served their country long and usefully, on
which they depend for subsistence, and from which
it will be too late to resort to any other occupation
for a livelihood, ought to have some better apology
to humanity than is to be found in the imaginary
danger of a superannuated bench. Publius.

From McLean's Edition, New York, M.DCC.LXXXVIII
THE FEDERALIST/ No. LXXX

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

To judge with accuracy of the proper extent of the
federal judicature, it will be necessary to consider,
in the first place, what are its proper objects.

270 Alexander Hamilton

It seems scarcely to admit of controversy, that the
judiciary authority of the Union ought to extend to
these several descriptions of cases: ist, to all those
which arise out of the laws of the United States,
passed in pursuance of their just and constitutional
powers of legislation ; 2d, to all those which concern
the execution of the provisions expressly contained
in the articles of Union ; 3d, to all those in which the
United States are a party; 4th, to all those which
involve the peace of the Confederacy, whether
they relate to the intercourse between the United
States and foreign nations, or to that between the
States themselves; 5th, to all those which originate
on the high seas, and are of admiralty or maritime
jurisdiction; and, lastly, to all those in which the
State tribunals cannot be supposed to be impartial
and unbiased.

The first point depends upon this obvious con-
sideration, that there ought always to be a constitu-
tional method of giving efficacy to constitutional
provisions. What, for instance, would avail re-
strictions on the authority of the State legislatures,
without some constitutional mode of enforcing the
observance of them? The States, by the plan of
the convention, are prohibited from doing a variety
of things, some of which are incompatible with the
interests of the Union, and others with the principles
of good government. The imposition of duties on
imported articles, and the emission of paper money,
are specimens of each kind. No man of sense will
believe, that such prohibitions would be scrupulously
regarded, without some effectual power in the gov-

The Federalist 271

ernment to restrain or correct the infractions of
them. This power must either be a direct negative
on the State laws, or an authority in the federal
courts to overrule such as might be in manifest con-
travention of the articles of Union. There is no
third course that I can imagine. The latter appears
to have been thought by the convention preferable to
the former, and, I presume, will be most agreeable
to the States.

As to the second point, it is impossible, by any
argument or comment, to make it clearer than it is
in itself. If there are such things as political axioms,
the propriety of the judicial power of a government
being coextensive with its legislative, may be ranked
among the number. The mere necessity of uniform-
ity in the interpretation of the national laws, de-
cides the question. Thirteen independent courts of
final jurisdiction over the same causes, arising upon
the same laws, is a hydra in government, from which
nothing but contradiction and confusion can proceed.

Still less need be said in regard to the third point.
Controversies between the nation and its members
or citizens, can only be properly referred to the na-
tional tribunals. Any other plan would be contrary
to reason, to precedent, and to decorum.

The fourth point rests on this plain proposition,
that the peace of the whole ought not to be left at
the disposal of a part. The Union will undoubtedly
be answerable to foreign powers for the conduct of
its members. And the responsibility for an injury
ought ever to be accompanied with the faculty of
preventing it. As the denial or perversion of justice

272 Alexander Hamilton

by the sentences of courts, as well as in any other
manner, is with reason classed among the just causes
of war, it will follow that the federal judiciary ought
to have cognizance of all causes in which the citizens
of other countries are concerned. This is not less
essential to the preservation of the public faith, than
to the security of the public tranquillity. A distinc-
tion may perhaps be imagined between cases arising
upon treaties and the laws of nations and those which
may stand merely on the footing of the municipal
law. The former kind may be supposed proper for
the federal jurisdiction, the latter for that of the
States. But it is at least problematical, whether an
unjust sentence against a foreigner, where the sub-
ject of controversy was wholly relative to the lex
loci, would not, if unredressed, be an aggression upon
his sovereign, as well as one which violated the
stipulations of a treaty or the general law of nations.
And a still greater objection to the distinction would
result from the immense difficulty, if not impossi-
bility, of a practical discrimination between the
cases of one complexion and those of the other. So
great a proportion of the cases in which foreigners
are parties, involve national questions, that it is by
far most safe and most expedient to refer all those in
which they are concerned to the national tribunals.
The power of determining causes between two
States, between one State and the citizens of another,
and between the citizens of different States, is
perhaps not less essential to the peace of the Union
than that which has been just examined. History
gives us a horrid picture of the dissensions and pri-

The Federalist 273

vate wars which distracted and desolated Germany
prior to the institution of the Imperial Chamber by
Maximilian, towards the close of the fifteenth cent-
ury, and informs us, at the same time, of the vast
influence of that institution in appeasing the disor-
ders and establishing the tranquillity of the empire. •
This was a court invested with authority to decide
finally all difEerences among the members of the Ger-
manic body.

A method of terminating territorial disputes be-
tween the States, under the authority of the federal
head, was not unattended to, even in the imperfect
system by which they have been hitherto held to-
gether. But there are many other sources, besides
interfering claims of boundary, from which bicker-
ings and animosities may spring up among the mem-
bers of the Union. To some of these we have been
witnesses in the course of our past experience. It
will readily be conjectured that I allude to the fraud-
ulent laws which have been passed in too many of
the States. And though the proposed Constitution
establishes particular guards against the repetition
of those instances which have heretofore made their
appearance, yet it is warrantable to apprehend that
the spirit which produced them will assume new -
shapes that could not be foreseen nor specifically ^
provided against. Whatever practices may have a
tendency to disturb the harmony between the States
are proper objects of federal superintendence and
control.

It may be esteemed the basis of the Union, that
" the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the

VOL, XII. — 18. .

2 74 Alexander Hamilton

privileges and immunities of citizens of the several
States." And if it be a just principle that every
government ought to possess the means of executing
its own provisions by its own authority, it will follow,
that in order to the inviolable maintenance of that
equality of privileges and immunities to which the
citizens of the Union will be entitled, the national
judiciary ought to preside in all cases in which one
State or its citizens are opposed to another State or
its citizens. To secure the full effect of so funda-
mental a provision against all evasion and subter-
fuge, it is necessary that its construction should be
committed to that tribunal which, having no local
attachments, will be likely to be impartial between
the different States and their citizens, and which,
owing its official existence to the Union, will never
be likely to feel any bias inauspicious to the prin-
ciples on which it is founded.

The fifth point will demand little animadversion.
The most bigoted idolizers of State authority have
not thus far shown a disposition to deny the national
judiciary the cognizances of maritime causes. These
so generally depend on the laws of nations, and so
commonly affect the rights of foreigners, that they
fall within the considerations which are relative to
the public peace. The most important part of them
are, by the present Confederation, submitted to
federal jurisdiction.

The reasonableness of the agency of the national
courts in cases in which the State tribunals cannot
be supposed to be impartial, speaks for itself. No
man ought certainly to be a judge in his own cause,

The Federalist 275

or in any cause in respect to which he has the least
interest or bias. This principle has no inconsid-
erable weight in designating the federal courts as
the proper tribunals for the determination of contro-
versies between different States and their citizens.
And it ought to have the same operation in regard
to some cases between citizens of the same State.
Claims to land under grants of different States,
founded upon adverse pretensions of boundary, are
of this description. The courts of neither of the
granting States could be expected to be unbiased.
The laws may have even prejudged the question,
and tied the courts down to decisions in favor of the
grants of the State to which they belonged. And
even where this had not been done, it would be nat-
ural that the judges, as men, should feel a strong
predilection to the claims of their own government.
Having thus laid down and discussed the prin-
ciples which ought to regulate the constitution of the
federal judiciary, we will proceed to test, by these
principles, the particular powers of which, according
to the plan of the convention, it is to be composed.
It is to comprehend ''all cases in law and equity aris-
ing under the Constitution, the laws of the United
States, and treaties made, or which shall be made,
under their authority; to all cases affecting am-
bassadors, other public ministers, and consuls; to
all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction ; to
controversies to which the United States shall be a
party ; to controversies between two or more States ;
between a State and citizens of another State; be-
tween citizens of different States; between citizens

276 Alexander Hamilton

of the same State claiming lands and grants of
different States ; and between a State or the citizens
thereof and foreign states, citizens, and subjects."
This constitutes the entire mass of the judicial au-
thority of the Union. Let us now review it in de-
tail. It is, then, to extend:

First. To all cases in law and equity, arising
under the Constitution and the laws of the United
States, This corresponds with the two first classes
of causes, which have been enumerated, as proper
for the jurisdiction of the United States. It has been
asked, what is meant by ''cases arising under the
Constitution," in contradistinction from those ''aris-
ing under the laws of the United States"? The
difference has been already explained. All the re-
strictions upon the authority of the State legisla-
tures furnish examples of it. They are not, for
stance, to emit paper money; but the interdiction
results from the Constitution, and will have no con-
nection with any law of the United States. Should
paper money, notwithstanding, be emitted, the con-
troversies concerning it would be cases arising under
the Constitution and not the laws of the United
States, in the ordinary signification of the terms.
This may serve as a sample of the whole.

It has also been asked, what need of the word
"equity"? What equitable causes can grow out of
the Constitution and laws of the United States?
There is hardly a subject of litigation between indi-
viduals, which may not involve those ingredients of
fraud, accident, trust, or hardship, which would render
the matter an object of equitable rather than of legal

The Federalist 277

jurisdiction, as the distinction is known and estab-
Hshed in several of the States. It is the peculiar
province, for instance, of a court of equity to relieve
against what are called hard bargains: these are
contracts in which, though there may have been no
direct fraud or deceit, sufficient to invalidate them
in a court of law, yet there may have been some
undue and unconscionable advantage taken of the
necessities or misfortunes of one of the parties, which
a court of equity would not tolerate. In such cases,
where foreigners were concerned on either side, it
would be impossible for the federal judicatories to
do justice without an equitable as well as a legal
jurisdiction. Agreements to convey lands claimed
under the grants of different States, may afford an-
other example of the necessity of an equitable juris-
diction in the federal courts. This reasoning may
not be so palpable in those States where the formal
and technical distinction between law and equity
is not maintained, as in this State, where it is exem-
plified by every day's practice.

The judiciary authority of the Union is to extend:
Second. To treaties made, or which shall be made,
under the authority of the United States, and to all
cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers,
and consuls. These belong to the fourth class of
the enumerated cases, as they have an evident con-
nection with the preservation of the national peace.
Third. To cases of admiralty and maritime juris-
diction. These form, altogether, the fifth of the
enumerated classes of causes proper for the cogni-
zance of the national courts.

278 Alexander Hamilton

Fourth. To controversies to which the United
States shall be a party. These constitute the third
of those classes.

Fifth. To controversies between two or more
States; between a State and citizens of another
State; between citizens of different States. These
belong to the fourth of those classes, and partake, in
some measure, of the nature of the last.

Sixth. To cases between the citizens of the same
State, claiming lands under grants of different States.
These fall within the last class, and are the only
instances in which the proposed Constitution directly
contemplates the cognizance of disputes between the
citizens of the same State.

Seventh. To cases between a State and the citi-
zens thereof, and foreign States, citizens, or subjects.
These have been already explained to belong to the
fourth of the enumerated classes, and have been
shown to be, in a peculiar manner, the proper sub-
jects of the national judicature.

From this review of the particular powers of the
federal judiciary, as marked out in the Constitution,
it appears that they are all conformable to the prin-
ciples which ought to have governed the structure of
that department, and which were necessary to the
perfection of the system. If some partial incon-
veniences should appear to be connected with the
incorporation of any of them into the plan, it ought
to be recollected that the national legislature will
have ample authority to make such exceptions, and
to prescribe such regulations as will be calculated to
obviate or remove these inconveniences. The pos-

The Federalist 279

sibility of particular mischiefs can never be viewed,
by a well-informed mind, as a solid objection to a
general principle, which is calculated to avoid gen-
eral mischiefs and to obtain general advantages.

PUBLIUS.

From McLean's Edition, New York, M.DCC.LXXXVIII.
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXXI

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

Let us now return to the partition of the judiciary
authority between different courts and their relations
to each other.

"The judicial power of the United States is'* (by
the plan of the convention) "to be vested in one
Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as
the Congress may, from time to time, ordain and
establish." '

That there ought to be one court of supreme and
final jurisdiction, is a proposition which is not likely
to be contested. The reasons for it have been as-
signed in another place, and are too obvious to need
repetition. The only question that seems to have
been raised concerning it, is, whether it ought to be
a distinct body or a branch of the legislature. The
same contradiction is observable in regard to this
matter which has been remarked in several other
cases. The very men who object to the Senate
as a court of impeachments, on the ground of
an improper intermixture of powers, advocate, by

' Article 3, sec. i. — Publius

28o Alexander Hamilton

implication at least, the propriety of vesting the
ultimate decision of all causes, in the whole or in a
part of the legislative body.

The arguments, or rather suggestions, upon which
this charge is founded, are to this effect: "The au-
thority of the proposed Supreme Court of the United
States, which is to be a separate and independent
body, will be superior to that of the legislature. The
power of construing the laws according to the spirit
of the Constitution, will enable that court to mould
them into whatever shape it may think proper; es-
pecially as its decisions will not be in any manner
subject to the revision or correction of the legislative
body. This is as unprecedented as it is dangerous.
In Britain, the judicial power, in the last resort, re-
sides in the House of Lords, which is a branch of
the legislature; and this part of the British govern-
ment has been imitated in the State constitutions
in general. The Parliament of Great Britain, and
the legislatures of the several States, can at any time
rectify, by law, the exceptionable decisions of their
respective courts. But the errors and usurpations
of the Supreme Court of the United States will be
uncontrollable and remediless." This, upon ex-
amination, will be found to be made up altogether
of false reasoning upon misconceived fact.

In the first place, there is not a syllable in the plan
under consideration which directly empowers the na-
tional courts to construe the laws according to the
spirit of the Constitution, or which gives them any
greater latitude in this respect than may be claimed
by the courts of every State. I admit, however, that

The Federalist 281

the Constitution ought to be the standard of con-
struction for the laws, and that wherever there is an
evident opposition, the laws ought to give place to
the Constitution. But this doctrine is not deducible
from any circumstance peculiar to the plan of the
convention, but from the general theory of a limited
Constitution; and as far as it is true, is equally ap-
plicable to most, if not to all the State governments.
There can be no objection, therefore, on this account,
to the federal judicature which will not lie against the
local judicatures in general, and which will not serve
to condemn every constitution that attempts to set
bounds to legislative discretion.

But perhaps the force of the objection may be
thought to consist in the particular organization of
the Supreme Court; in its being composed of a dis-
tinct body of magistrates, instead of being one of the
branches of the legislature, as in the government of
Great Britain and that of the State. To insist upon
this point, the authors of the objection m^ust re-
nounce the meaning they have labored to annex to
the celebrated maxim, requiring a separation of the
departments of power. It shall, nevertheless, be
conceded to them, agreeably to the interpretation
given to that maxim in the course of these papers,
that it is not violated by vesting the ultimate power
of judging in a part of the legislative body. But
though this be not an absolute violation of that ex-
cellent rule, yet it verges so nearly upon it as on
this account alone to be less eligible than the mode
preferred by the convention. From a body which
had even a partial agency in passing bad laws, we

282 Alexander Hamilton

could rarely expect a disposition to temper and
moderate them in the application. The same spirit
which had operated in making them, would be too
apt in interpreting them; still less could it be ex-
pected that men who had infringed the Constitution
in the character of legislators, would be disposed to
repair the breach in the character of judges. Nor is
this all. Every reason which recommends the ten-
ure of good behavior for judicial offices, militates
against placing the judiciary power, in the last resort,
in a body composed of men chosen for a limited pe-
riod. There is an absurdity in referring the deter-
mination of causes, in the first instance, to judges of
permanent standing; in the last, to those of a tem-
porary and mutable constitution. And there is a
still greater absurdity in subjecting the decisions of
men, selected for their knowledge of the laws, ac-
quired by long and laborious study, to the revision
and control of men who, for want of the same ad-
vantage, cannot but be deficient in that knowledge.
The members of the legislature will rarely be chosen
with a view to those qualifications which fit men for
the stations of judges ; and as, on this account, there
will be great reason to apprehend all the ill conse-
quences of defective information, so, on account of
the natural propensity of such bodies to party divi-
sions, there will be no less reason to fear that the
pestilential breath of faction may poison the fount-
ains of justice. The habit of being continually mar-
shalled on opposite sides will be too apt to stifle the
voice both of law and of equity.

These considerations teach us to applaud the wis-

The Federalist 283

dom of those States who have committed the judicial
power, in the last resort, not to a part of the legisla-
ture, but to distinct and independent bodies of men.
Contrary to the supposition of those who have re-
presented the plan of the convention, in this respect,
as novel and unprecedented, it is but a copy of
the constitutions of New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia; and the
preference which has been given to those models is
highly to be commended.

It is not true, in the second place, that the Parlia-
ment of Great Britain, or the legislatures of the par-
ticular States, can rectify the exceptionable decisions
of their respective courts, in any other sense than
might be done by a future legislature of the United
States. The theory, neither of the British, nor the
State constitutions, authorizes the revisal of a judi-
cial sentence by a legislative act. Nor is there any
thing in the proposed Constitution, more than in
either of them, by which it is forbidden. In the
former, as well as in the latter, the impropriety of
the thing, on the general principles of law and reason,
is the sole obstacle. A legislature, without exceed-
ing its province, cannot reverse a determination once
made in a particular case; though it may prescribe
a new rule for future cases. This is the principle,
and it applies in all its consequences, exactly in the
same manner and extent, to the State governments,
as to the national government now under considera-
tion. Not the least difference can be pointed out in
any view of the subject.

284 Alexander Hamilton

It may in the last place be observed that the sup-
posed danger of judiciary encroachments on the
legislative authority, which has been upon many
occasions reiterated, is in reality a phantom. Par-
ticular misconstructions and contraventions of the
will of the legislature may now and then happen;
but they can never be so extensive as to amount to
an inconvenience, or in any sensible degree to affect
the order of the political system. This may be in-
ferred with certainty, from the general nature of the
judicial power, from the objects to which it relates,
from the manner in which it is exercised, from its
comparative weakness, and from its total incapacity
to support its usurpations by force. And the infer-
ence is greatly fortified by the consideration of the
important constitutional check which the power of
instituting impeachments in one part of the legis-
lative body, and of determining upon them in the
other, would give to that body upon the members of
the judicial department. This is alone a complete
security. There never can be danger that the judges,
by a series of deliberate usurpations on the authority
of the legislature, would hazard the united resent-
ment of the body intrusted with it, while this body
was possessed of the means of punishing their pre-
sumption, by degrading them from their stations.
While this ought to remove all apprehensions on the
subject, it affords, at the same time, a cogent argu-
ment for constituting the Senate a court for the trial
of impeachments.

Having now examined, and, I trust, removed the
objections to the distinct and independent organiza-

The Federalist 285

tion of the Supreme Court, I proceed to consider the
propriety of the power of constituting inferior courts,'
and the relations which will subsist between these
and the former.

The power of constituting inferior courts is evi-
dently calculated to obviate the necessity of having
recourse to the Supreme Court in every case of
federal cognizance. It is intended to enable the na-
tional government to institute or authorize, in each
State or district of the United States, a tribunal com-
petent to the determination of matters of national
jurisdiction within its limits.

But why, it is asked, might not the same purpose
have been accomplished by the instrumentality of
the State courts? This admits of different answers.
Though the fitness and competency of those courts
should be allowed in the utmost latitude, yet the
substance of the power in question may still be re-
garded as a necessary part of the plan, f it were only
to empower the national legislature to commit to
them the cognizance of causes arising out of the
national Constitution. To confer the power of deter-
mining such causes upon the existing courts of the
several States, would perhaps be as much " to con-
stitute tribunals,'' as to create new courts with
the like power. But ought not a more direct and

^ This power has been absurdly represented as intended to abolish
all the county courts in the several States, which are commonly called
inferior courts. But the expressions of the Constitution are, to con-
stitute "tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court"; and the evi-
dent design of the provision is to enable the institution of local courts,
subordinate to the Supreme, either in States or larger districts. It is
ridiculous to imagine that county courts were in contemplation. —

PUBLIUS.

286 Alexander Hamilton

explicit provision to have been made in favor of the
State courts ? There are, in my opinion, substantial
reasons against such a provision: the most discern-
ing cannot foresee how far the prevalency of a local
spirit may be found to disqualify the local tribunals
for the jurisdiction of national causes; whilst every
man may discover, that courts constituted like those
of some of the States would be improper channels of
the judicial authority of the Union. State judges,
holding their offices during pleasure, or from year to
year, will be too little independent to be relied upon
for an inflexible execution of the national laws. And
if there was a necessity for confiding the original
cognizance of causes arising under those laws to
them, there would be a correspondent necessity for
leaving the door of appeal as wide as possible. In
proportion to the grounds of confidence in, or dis-
trust of, the subordinate tribunals, ought to be the
facility or difficulty of appeals. And well satisfied
as I am of the propriety of the appellate jurisdiction,
in the several classes of causes to which it is extended
by the plan of the convention, I should consider
every thing calculated to give, in practice, an un-
restrained course to appeals, as a source of public
and private inconven ence.

I am not sure, but that it will be found highly ex-
pedient and useful, to divide the United States into
four or five or half a dozen districts ; and to institute
a federal court in each district, in lieu of one in every
State. The judges of these courts, with the aid of the
State judges, may hold circuits for the trial of causes
in the several parts of the respective districts. Just-

The Federalist 287

ice through them may be administered with ease
and despatch; and appeals may be safely circum-
scribed within a narrow compass. This plan appears
to me at present the most eligible of any that could
be adopted; and in order to it, it is necessary that
the power of constituting inferior courts should exist
in the full extent in which it is to be found in the
proposed Constitution.

These reasons seem sufficient to satisfy a candid
mind, that the want of such a power would have been
a great defect in the plan. Let us now examine in
what manner the judicial authority is to be distrib-
uted between the supreme and the inferior courts
of the Union.

The Supreme Court is to be invested with original
jurisdiction, only '*in cases affecting ambassadors,
other public ministers, and consuls, and those in
which A State shall be a party." Public ministers
of every class are the immediate representatives of
their sovereigns. All questions in which they are
concerned are so directly connected with the public
peace, that, as well for the preservation of this, as
out of respect to the sovereignties they represent, it
is both expedient and proper that such questions
should be submitted in the first instance to the high-
est judicatory of the nation. Though consuls have
not in strictness a diplomatic character, yet as they
are the public agents of the nations to which they
belong, the same observation is in a great measure
applicable to them. In cases in which a State might
happen to be a party, it would ill suit its dignity to
be turned over to an inferior tribunal.

288 Alexander Hamilton

Though it may rather be a digression from the
immediate subject of this paper, I shall take occa-
sion to mention here a supposition which has ex-
cited some alarm upon very mistaken groimds. It
has been suggested that an assignment of the public
securities of one State to the citizens of another,
would enable them to prosecute that State in the
federal courts for the amount of those securities; a
suggestion which the following considerations prove
to be without foimdation.

It is inherent in the nature of sovereignty not to
be amenable to the suit of an individual without its
consent. This is the general sense, and the general
practice of mankind; and the exemption, as one of
the attributes of sovereignty, is now enjoyed by the
government of every State in the Union. Unless,
therefore, there is a surrender of this immunity in
the plan of the convention, it will remain with the
States, and the danger intimated must be merely
ideal. The circumstances which are necessary to
produce an alienation of State sovereignty were dis-
cussed in considering the article of taxation, and
need not be repeated here. A recurrence to the
principles there established will satisfy us, that there
is no color to pretend that the State governments
would, by the adoption of that plan, be divested of
the privilege of paying their own debts in their own
way, free from every constraint but that which flows
from the obligations of good faith. The contracts
between a nation and individuals are only bind-
ing on the conscience of the sovereign, and have no
pretensions to a compulsive force. They confer no

The Federalist 289

right of action, independent of the sovereign will.
To what purpose would it be to authorize suits
against States for the debts they owe? How could
recoveries be enforced? It is evident, it could not
be done without waging war against the contracting
State ; and to ascribe to the federal courts, by mere
implication, and. in destruction of a preexisting right
of the State governments, a power which would in-
volve such a consequence, would be altogether forced
and unwarrantable.

Let us resume the train of our observations. We
have seen that the original jurisdiction of the Su-
preme Court would be confined to two classes of
causes, and those of a nature rarely to occur. In all
other cases of federal cognizance, the original juris-
diction would appertain to the inferior tribunals;
and the Supreme Court would have nothing more
than an appellate jurisdiction, '* with such exceptions
and under such regulations as the Congress shall
make."

The propriety of this appellate jurisdiction has
been scarcely called in question in regard to matters
of law; but the clamors have been loud against it
as applied to matters of fact. Some well-intentioned
men in this State, deriving their notions from the
language and forms which obtain in our courts, have
been induced to consider it as an implied super-
sedure of the trial by jury, in favor of the civil-law
mode of trial, which prevails in our courts of ad-
miralty, probate, and chancery. A technical sense
has been affixed to the term ''appellate," which, in
our law parlance, is commonly used in reference to

VOL. XII.— 19.

290 Alexander Hamilton

appeals in the course of the civil law. But if I am
not misinformed, the same meaning would not be
given to it in any part of New England. There an
appeal from one jury to another, is familiar both in
language and practice, and is even a matter of course,
until there have been two verdicts on one side. The
word ''appellate," therefore, will not be understood
in the same sense in New England as in New York,
which shows the impropriety of a technical interpre-
tation derived from the jurisprudence of any par-
ticular State. The expression, taken in the abstract,
denotes nothing more than the power of one tribunal
to review the proceedings of another, either as to the
law or fact, or both. The mode of doing it may de-
pend on ancient custom or legislative provision (in
a new government it must depend on the latter),
and may be with or without the aid of a jury, as may
be judged advisable. If, therefore, the reexamina-
tion of a fact once determined by a jury, should in
any case be admitted under the proposed Constitu-
tion, it may be so regulated as to be done by a second
jury, either by remanding the cause to the court
below for a second trial of the fact, or by directing
an issue immediately out of the Supreme Court.

But it does not follow that the reexamination of
a fact once ascertained by a jury, will be permitted
in the Supreme Court. Why may it not be said,
with the strictest propriety, when a writ of error is
brought from an inferior to a superior court of law
in this State, that the latter has jurisdiction of the
fact as well as the law? It is true it cannot institute
a new inquiry concerning the fact, but it takes cog-

The Federalist 291

nizance of it as it appears upon the record, and pro-
nounces the law arising upon it." This is jurisdiction
of both fact and law ; nor is it even possible to sepa-
rate them. Though the common-law courts of this
State ascertain disputed facts by a jury, yet they
unquestionably have jurisdiction of both fact and
law; and accordingly when the former is agreed in
the pleadings, they have no recourse to a jury, but
proceed at once to judgment. I contend, therefore,
on this ground, that the expressions, ''appellate
jurisdiction, both as to law and fact,'' do not neces-
sarily imply a reexamination in the Supreme Court
of facts decided by juries in the inferior courts.

The following train of ideas may well be imagined
to have influenced the convention, in relation to this
particular provision. The appellate jurisdiction of
the Supreme Court (it may have been argued) will
extend to causes determinable in different modes,
some in the course of the common law, others in the
course of the civil law. In the former, the revision
of the law only will be, generally speaking, the proper
province of the Supreme Court; in the latter, the
reexamination of the fact is agreeable to usage, and
in some cases, of which prize causes are an example,
might be essential to the preservation of the public
peace. It is therefore necessary that the appellate
jurisdiction should, in certain cases, extend in the
broadest sense to matters of fact. It will not an-
swer to make an express exception of cases which
shall have been originally tried by a jury, because

' This word is composed of jus and dictio, juris dictio^ or a speaking
and pronouncing of the law. — Publius.

292 Alexander Hamilton

in the courts of some of the States all causes are tried
in this mode ' ; and such an exception would pre-
clude the revision of matters of fact, as well where it
might be proper, as where it might be improper. To
avoid all inconveniences, it will be safest to declare
generally, that the Supreme Court shall possess ap-
pellate jurisdiction both as to law and fact, and that
this jurisdiction shall be subject to such exceptions
and regulations as the national legislature may pre-
scribe. This will enable the government to modify
it in such a manner as will best answer the ends
of public justice and security.

This view of the matter, at any rate, puts it out of
all doubt that the supposed abolition of the trial by
jury, by the operation of this provision, is fallacious
and untrue. The legislature of the United States
would certainly have full power to provide, that in
appeals to the Supreme Court there should be no re-
examination of facts where they had been tried in
the original causes by juries. This would certainly
be an authorized exception; but if, for the reason
already intimated, it should be thought too exten-
sive, it might be qualified with a limitation to such
causes only as are determinable at common law in
that mode of trial.

The amount of the observations hitherto made
on the authority of the judicial department is this:
that it has been carefully restricted to those causes
which are manifestly proper for the cognizance of

^ I hold that the States will have concurrent jurisdiction with the
subordinate federal judicatories, in many cases of federal cognizance,
as will be explained in my next paper. — Publius.

The Federalist 293

the national judicature ; that in the partition of this
authority a very small portion of original jurisdiction
has been preserved to the Supreme Court, and the
rest consigned to the subordinate tribunals ; that the
Supreme Court will possess an appellate jurisdiction,
both as to law and fact, in all the cases referred to
them, both subject to any exceptions and regulations
which may be thought advisable ; that this appellate
jurisdiction does, in no case, abolish the trial by jury ;
and that an ordinary degree of prudence and integ-
rity in the national councils will insure us solid ad-
vantages from the establishment of the proposed
judiciary, without exposing us to any of the incon-
veniences which have been predicted from that
source.

PUBLIUS.

From McLean's Edition, New York, M.DCC.LXXXVIII
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXXII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The erection of a new government, whatever care
or wisdom may distinguish the work, cannot fail to
originate questions of intricacy and nicety; and
these may, in a particular manner, be expected to
flow from the establishment of a constitution founded
upon the total or partial incorporation of a number
of distinct sovereignties. 'T is time only that can
mature and perfect so compound a system, can
liquidate the meaning of all the parts, and can ad-
just them to each other in a harmonious and con-
sistent WHOLE.

294 Alexander Hamilton

Such questions, accordingly, have arisen upon the
plan proposed by the convention, and particularly
concerning the judiciary department. The prin-
cipal of these respect the situation of the State courts
in regard to those causes which are to be submitted to
federal jurisdiction. Is this to be exclusive, or are
those courts to possess a concurrent jurisdiction ? If
the latter, in what relation will they stand to the
national tribunals ? These are inquiries which we
meet with in the mouths of men of sense, and which
are certainly entitled to attention.

The principles established in a former paper '
teach us that the States will retain all preexisting
authorities which may not be exclusively delegated
to the federal head; and that this exclusive delega-
tion can only exist in one of three cases: where an
exclusive authority is, in express terms, granted to
the Union ; or where a particular authority is granted
to the Union, and the exercise of a like authority is
prohibited to the States; or where an authority is
granted to the Union, with which a similar authority
in the States would be utterly incompatible. Though
these principles may not apply with the same force
to the judiciary as to the legislative power, yet I am
inclined to think that they are, in the main, just with
respect to the former, as well as the latter. And
under this impression, I shall lay it down as a rule,
that the State courts will retain the jurisdiction they
now have, unless it appears to be taken away in one
of the enumerated modes.

The only thing in the poposed Constitution, which

« No. XXXI.— PUBLIUS.

The Federalist 295

wears the appearance of confining the causes of
federal cognizance to the federal courts, is contained
in this passage: — ''The judicial power of the
United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court,
and in such inferior courts as the Congress shall from
time to time ordain and establish.'* This might
either be construed to signify, that the supreme and
subordinate courts of the Union should alone have
the power of deciding those causes to which their
authority is to extend; or simply to denote, that
the organs of the national judiciary should be one
Supreme Court, and as many subordinate courts
as Congress should think proper to appoint; or in
other words, that the United States should exercise
the judicial power with which they are to be in-
vested, through one supreme tribunal, and a certain
number of inferior ones, to be instituted by them.
The first excludes, the last admits, the concurrent
jurisdiction of the State tribunals; and as the first
would amount to an alienation of State power by
implication, the last appears to me the most natural
and the most defensible construction.

But this doctrine of concurrent jurisdiction is only
clearly applicable to those descriptions of causes of
which the State courts have previous cognizance.
It is not equally evident in relation to cases which
may grow out of, and be peculiar to, the Constitution
to be established ; for not to allow the State courts a
right of jurisdiction in such cases, can hardly be
considered as the abridgement of a preexisting au-
thority. I mean not therefore to contend that the
United States, in the course of legislation upon the

296 Alexander Hamilton

objects intrusted to their direction, may not commit
the decision of causes arising upon a particular regu-
lation to the federal courts solely, if such a measure
should be deemed expedient; but I hold that the
State courts will be divested of no part of their
primitive jurisdiction, further than may relate to an
appeal ; and I am even of opinion that in every case
in which they were not expressly excluded by the
future acts of the national legislature, they will of
course take cognizance of the causes to which those
acts may give birth. This I infer from the nature
of judiciary power, and from the general genius of
the system. The judiciary power of every govern-
ment looks beyond its own local or municipal laws,
and in civil cases lays hold of all subjects of litiga-
tion between parties within its jurisdiction, though
the causes of dispute are relative to the laws of the
most distant part of the globe. Those of Japan, not
less than of New York, may furnish the objects of
legal discussion to our courts. When in addition to
this we consider the State governments and the na-
tional governments, as they truly are, in the light of
kindred systems, and as parts of one whole, the in-
ference seems to be conclusive, that the State courts
would have a concurrent jurisdiction in all cases
arising under the laws of the Union, where it was not
expressly prohibited.

Here another question occurs: What relation
would subsist between the national and State courts
in these instances of concurrent jurisdiction? I
answer, that an appeal would certainly lie from the
latter, to the Supreme Court of the United States.

The Federalist 297

The Constitution in direct terms gives an appellate
jurisdiction to the Supreme Court in all the enu-
merated cases of federal cognizance in which it is
not to have an original one, without a single expres-
sion to confine its operation to the inferior federal
courts. The objects of appeal, not the tribunals
from which it is to be made, are alone contemplated.
From this circumstance, and from the reason of the
thing, it ought to be construed to extend to the
State tribunals. Either this must be the case, or
the local courts must be excluded from a concurrent
jurisdiction in matters of national concern, else the
judiciary authority of the Union may be eluded at
the pleasure of every plaintiff or prosecutor. Neither
of these consequences ought, without evident neces-
sity, to be involved; the latter would be entirely
inadmissible, as it would defeat some of the most
important and avowed purposes of the proposed gov-
ernment, and would essentially embarrass its meas-
ures. Nor do I perceive any foundation for such a
supposition. Agreeably to the remark already made,
the national and State systems are to be regarded as
ONE WHOLE. The courts of the latter will of course
be natural auxiliaries to the execution of the laws
of the Union, and an appeal from them will as nat-
urally lie to that tribunal which is destined to unite
and assimilate the principles of national justice and
the rules of national decisions. The evident aim of the
plan of the convention is, that all the causes of the
specified classes shall, for weighty public reasons,
receive their original or final determination in the
courts of the Union. To confine, therefore, the

298 Alexander Hamilton

general expressions giving appellate jurisdiction to
the Supreme Court, to appeals from the subordinate
federal courts, instead of allowing their extension to
the State courts, would be to abridge the latitude of
the terms, in subversion of the intent, contrary to
every sound rule of interpretation.

But could an appeal be made to lie from the State
courts to the subordinate federal judicatories ? This
is another of the questions which have been raised,
and of greater difficulty than the former. The fol-
lowing considerations countenance the affirmative.
The plan of the convention, in the first place,
authorizes the national legislature ** to constitute
tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court." ' It de-
clares, in the next place, that "the judicial power
of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme
Court, and in such inferior courts as Congress shall
ordain and establish ' ' ; and it then proceeds to enu-
merate the cases to which this judicial power shall
extend. It afterwards divides the jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court into original and appellate, but gives
no definition of that of the subordinate courts. The
only outlines described for them, are that they shall
be "inferior to the Supreme Court," and that they
shall not exceed the specified limits of the federal
judiciary. Whether their authority shall be origi-
nal or appellate, or both, is not declared. All this
seems to be left to the discretion of the legislature.
And this being the case, I perceive at present no
impediment to the establishment of an appeal from
the State courts to the subordinate national tribu-

^ Sec. 8th, art. ist. — Publius.

The Federalist 299

nals; and many advantages attending the power of
doing it may be imagined. It would diminish the
motives to the multipHcation of federal courts, and
would admit of arrangements calculated to contract
the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
The State tribunals may then be left with a more
entire charge of federal causes; and appeals, in most
cases in which they may be deemed proper, instead
of being carried to the Supreme Court, may be made
to lie from the State courts to district courts of the
Union.

PUBLIUS.

From McLean's Edition, New York, M.DCC.LXXXVIII
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXXIII

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

The objection to the plan of the convention, which
has met with most success in this State, and perhaps
in several of the other States, is that relative to the
want of a constitutional provision for the trial by jury
in civil cases. The disingenuous form in which this
objection is usually stated has been repeatedly ad-
verted to and exposed, but continues to be pursued
in all the conversations and. writings of the oppo-
nents of the plan. The mere silence of the Constitu-
tion in regard to civil causes, is represented as an
abolition of the trial by jury, and the declamations
to which it has afforded a pretext are artfully cal-
culated to induce a persuasion that this pretended
abolition is complete and universal, extending not

300 Alexander Hamilton

only to every species of civil, but even to criminal^
causes. To argue with respect to the latter would,
however, be as vain and fruitless as to attempt the
serious proof of the existence of matter, or to demon-
strate any of those propositions which, by their own
internal evidence, force conviction, when expressed
in language adapted to convey their meaning.

With regard to civil causes, subtleties almost too
contemptible for refutation have been employed to
countenance the surmise that a thing which is only
not provided for, is entirely abolished. Every man
of discernment must at once perceive the wide dif-
ference between silence and abolition. But as the
inventors of this fallacy have attempted to support
it by certain legal maxims of interpretation, which
they have pre verted from their true meaning, it may
not be wholly useless to explore the ground they
have taken.

The maxims on which they rely are of this nature:
"A specification of particulars is an exclusion of
generals"; or, ''The expression of one thing is the
exclusion of another. " Hence, say they, as the Con-
stitution has established the trial by jury in criminal
cases, and is silent in respect to civil, this silence is
an implied prohibition of trial by jury in regard to
the latter.

The rules of legal interpretation are rules of com-
mon-sense, adopted by the courts in the construction
of the laws. The true test, therefore, of a just ap-
plication of them is its conformity to the source from
which they are derived. This being the case, let me
ask if it is consistent with common-sense to suppose

The Federalist 301

that a provision obHging the legislative power to
commit the trial of criminal causes to juries, is a
privation of its right to authorize or permit that
mode of trial in other cases ? Is it natural to suppose,
that a command to do one thing is a prohibition to
the doing of another, which there was a previous
power to do, and which is not incompatible with the
thing commanded to be done? If such a supposi-
tion would be unnatural and unreasonable, it cannot
be rational to maintain that an injunction of the
trial by jury in certain cases is an interdiction of it
in others.

A power to constitute courts is a power to pre-
scribe the mode of trial; and consequently, if no-
thing was said in the Constitution on the subject of
juries, the legislature would be at liberty either to
adopt that institution or to let it alone. This dis-
cretion, in regard to criminal causes, is abridged by
the express injunction of trial by jury in all such
cases ; but it is, of course, left at large in relation to
civil causes, there being a total silence on this head.
The specification of an obligation to try all criminal
causes in a particular mode, excludes indeed the
obligation or necessity of employing the same mode
in civil causes, but does not abridge the power of the
legislature to exercise that mode if it should be
thought proper. The pretence, therefore, that the
national legislature would not be at full liberty to
submit all the civil causes of federal cognizance to
the determination of juries, is a pretence destitute
of all just foundation.

From these observations this conculsion results:

302 Alexander Hamilton

that the trial by jury in civil cases would not be
abolished; and that the use attempted to be made
of the maxims which have been quoted, is contrary
to reason and common-sense, and therefore not ad-
missible. Even if these maxims had a precise tech-
nical sense, corresponding with the idea of those who
employ them upon the present occasion, which, how-
ever, is not the case, they would still be inapplicable
to a constitution of government. In relation to
such a subject, the natural and obvious sense of its
provisions, apart from any technical rules, is the
true criterion of construction.

Having now seen that the maxims relied upon will
not bear the use made of them, let us endeavor to
ascertain their proper use and true meaning. This
will be best done by examples. The plan of the
convention declares that the power of Congress, or,
in other words, of the national legislature, shall ex-
tend to certain enumerated cases. This specifica-
tion of particulars evidently excludes all pretension
to a general legislative authority, because an affirma-
tive grant of special powers would be absurd, as well
as useless, if a general authority was intended.

In like manner the judicial authority of the fed-
eral judicatures is declared by the Constitution to
comprehend certain cases particularly specified. The
expression of those cases marks the precise limits,
beyond which the federal courts cannot extend their
jurisdiction, because the objects of their cognizance
being enumerated, the specification would be nuga-
tory if it did not exclude all ideas of more exten-
sive authority.

The Federalist 303

These examples are sufficient to elucidate the
maxims which have been mentioned, and to desig-
nate the manner in which they should be used.
[But that there may be no misapprehension upon
this subject,! shall add one case more, to demonstrate
the proper use of these maxims, and the abuse which
has been made of them.]'

Let us suppose that by the laws of this State a
married woman was incapable of conveying her es-
tate, and that the legislature, considering this as an
evil, should enact that she might dispose of her prop-
erty by deed executed in the presence of a magis-
trate. In such a case there can be no doubt but the
specification would amount to an exclusion of any
other mode of conveyance, because the woman hav-
ing no previous power to alienate her property, the
specification determines the particular mode which
she is, for that purpose, to avail herself of. But let
us further suppose that in a subsequent part of the
same act it should be declared that no woman should
dispose of any estate of a determinate value without
the consent of three of her nearest relations, signified
by their signing the deed ; could it be inferred from
this regulation that a married woman might not
procure the approbation of her relations to a deed
for conveying property of inferior value? The posi-
tion is too absurd to merit a refutation, and yet this
is precisely the position which those must establish
who contend that the trial by juries in civil cases is
abolished, because it is expressly provided for in
cases of a criminal nature.

' This sentence in brackets is omitted in the revised text

304 Alexander Hamilton

From these observations it must appear imques-
tionably true, that trial by jury is in no case abol-
ished by the proposed Constitution, and it is equally
true, that in those controversies between individuals
in which the great body of the people are likely to be
interested, that institution will remain precisely in
the same situation in which it is placed by the State
constitutions, [and will be in no degree altered or
influenced by the adoption of the plan under con-
sideration]. ' The foundation of this assertion is,
that the national judiciary will have no cognizance
of them, and of course they will remain determinable
as heretofore by the State courts only, and in the
manner which the State constitutions and laws pre-
scribe. All land causes, except where claims under
the grants of different States come into question, and
all other controversies between the citizens of the
same State, unless where they depend upon positive
violations of the articles of union, by acts of the State
legislatures, will belong exclusively to the jurisdic-
tion of the State tribunals. Add to this, that ad-
miralty causes, and almost all those which are of
equity jurisdiction, are determinable under our own
government without the intervention of a jury, and
the inference from the whole will be, that this institu-
tion, as it exists with us at present, cannot possibly
be affected to any great extent by the proposed al-
teration in our system of government.

The friends and adversaries of the plan of the con-
vention, if they agree in nothing else, concur at least
in the value they set upon the trial by jury; or if

' This sentence in brackets is omitted in the revised text.

The Federalist 305

there is any difference between them it consists in
this : the former regard it as a valuable safeguard to
liberty ; the latter represent it as the very palladium
of free government. For my own part, the more the
operation of the institution has fallen under my ob-
servation, the more reason I have discovered for
holding it in high estimation ; and it would be alto-
gether superfluous to examine to what extent it
deserves to be esteemed useful or essential in a re-
presentative republic, or how much more merit it may
be entitled to, as a defence against the oppressions
of an hereditary monarch, than as a barrier to the
tyranny of popular magistrates in a popular govern-
ment. Discussions of this kind would be more curi-
ous than beneficial, as all are satisfied of the utility
of the institution, and of its friendly aspect to lib-
erty. But I must acknowledge that I cannot readily
discern the inseparable connection between the
existence of liberty, and the trial by jury in civil
cases. Arbitrary impeachments, arbitrary methods
of prosecuting pretended offences, and arbitrary
punishments upon arbitrary convictions, have ever
appeared to me to be the great engines of judicial
despotism; and these have all relation to criminal
proceedings. The trial by jury in criminal cases,
aided by the habeas-corpus act, seems therefore to be
alone concerned in the question. And both of these
are provided for, in the most ample manner, in the
plan of the convention.

It has been observed, that trial by jury is a safe-
guard against an oppressive exercise of the power of
taxation. This observation deserves to be canvassed.

VOL. XII. — ao.

3o6 Alexander Hamilton

It is evident that it can have no influence upon
the legislature, in regard to the amount of taxes to be
laid, to the objects upon which they are to be im-
posed, or to the rule by which they are to be appor-
tioned. If it can have any influence, therefore, it
must be upon the mode of collection, and the con-
duct of the ofificers entrusted with the execution of
the revenue laws.

As to the mode of collection in this State, under
our own Constitution, the trial by jury is in most
cases out of use. The taxes are usually levied by
the more summary proceeding of distress and sale,
as in cases of rent. And it is acknowledged on all
hands, that this is essential to the efEcacy of the
revenue laws. The dilatory course of a trial at law
to recover the taxes imposed on individuals, would
neither suit the exigencies of the public nor promote
the convenience of the citizens. It would often occa-
sion an accumulation of costs, more burdensome than
the original sum of the tax to be levied.

And as to the conduct of the officers of the revenue,
the provision in favor of trial by jury in criminal
cases, will afford the security aimed at. Wilful
abuses of a public authority, to the oppression of the
subject, and every species of official extortion, are
offences against the government, for which the per-
sons who commit them may be indicted and pun-
ished according to the circumstances of the case.

The excellence of the trial by jury in civil cases
appears to depend on circumstances foreign to the
preservation of liberty. The strongest argument in
its favor is, that it is a security against corruption.

The Federalist 3^7

As there is always more time and better opportunity
to tamper with a standing body of magistrates than
with a jury summoned for the occasion, there is room
to suppose that a corrupt influence would more
easily find its way to the former than to the latter.
The force of this consideration is, however, dimin-
ished by others. The sheriff, who is the summoner
of ordinary juries, and the clerks of courts, who have
the nomination of special juries, are themselves
standing officers, and, acting individually, may be
supposed more accessible to the touch of corruption
than the judges, who are a collective body. It is not
difficult to see, that it would be in the power of those
officers to select jurors who would serve the purpose
of the party as well as a corrupted bench. In the
next place, it may fairly be supposed, that there
would be less difficulty in gaining some of the jurors
promiscuously taken from the public mass, than in
gaining men who had been chosen by the govern-
ment for their probity and good character. But
making every deduction for these considerations, the
trial by jury must still be a valuable check upon
corruption. It greatly multiplies the impediments
to its success. As matters now stand, it would be
necessary to corrupt both court and jury ; for where
the jury have gone evidently wrong, the court will
generally grant a new trial, and it would be in most
cases of little use to practise upon the jury, unless
the court could be likewise gained. Here then is a
double security ; and it will readily be perceived that
this complicated agency tends to preserve the purity
of both institutions. By increasing the obstacles to

3o8 Alexander Hamilton

success, it discourages attempts to seduce the in-
tegrity of either. The temptations to prostitution
which the judges might have to surmount, must cer-
tainly be much fewer, while the cooperation of a
jury is necessary, than they might be, if they had
themselves the exclusive determination of all causes.

Notwithstanding, therefore, the doubts I have
expressed, as to the essentiality of trial by jury in
civil cases to liberty, I admit that it is in most cases,
under proper regulations, an excellent method of
determining questions of property; and that on this
account alone it would be entitled to a constitutional
provision in its favor if it were possible to fix the
limits within which it ought to be comprehended.
There is, however, in all cases, great difficulty in
this; and men not blinded by enthusiasm must be
sensible that in a federal government, which is a
composition of societies whose ideas and institutions
in relation to the matter materially vary from each
other, that difficulty must be not a little augmented.
For my own part, at every new view I take of the
subject, I become more convinced of the reality of
the obstacles which, we are authoritatively informed,
prevented the insertion of a provision on this head
in the plan of the convention.

The great difference between the limits of the jury
trial in different States is not generally understood;
and as it must have considerable influence on the
sentence we ought to pass upon the omission com-
plained of in regard to this point, an explanation of
it is necessary. In this State, our judicial establish-
ments resemble, more nearly than in any other,

The Federalist 309

those of Great Britain. We have courts of common
law, courts of probates (analogous in certain matters
to the spiritual courts in England), a court of ad-
rairalty, and a court of chancery. In the courts of
common law only, the trial by jury prevails, and this
with some exceptions. In all the others a single
judge presides, and proceeds in general either ac-
cording to the course of the canon or civil law, with-
out the aid of a jury." In New Jersey, there is a
court of chancery which proceeds like ours, but
neither courts of admiralty nor of probates, in the
sense in which these last are established with us. In
that State the courts of common law have the cog-
nizance of those causes which with us are determina-
ble in the courts of admiralty and of probates, and
of course the jury trial is more extensive in New Jersey
than in New York. In Pennsylvania, this is perhaps
still more the case, for there is no court of chancery
in that State, and its common-law courts have equity
jurisdiction. It has a court of admiralty, but none
of probates, at least on the plan of ours. Delaware
has in these respects imitated Pennsylvania. Mary-
land approaches more nearly to New York, as does
also Virginia, except that the latter has a plurality
of chancellors. North Carolina bears most affinity
to Pennsylvania; South Carolina to Virginia. I
believe, however, that in some of those States which
have distinct courts of admiralty, the causes depend-

^ It has been erroneously insinuated, with regard to the court of
chancery, that this court generally tries disputed facts by a jury. The
truth is, that references to a jury in that court rarely happen, and are
in no case necessary but where the validity of a devise of land comes
into question. — Publius.

3IO Alexander Hamilton

ing in them are triable by juries. In Georgia there
are none but common-law courts, and an appeal of
course lies from the verdict of one jury to another,
which is called a special jury, and for which a par-
ticular mode of appointment is marked out. In
Connecticut, they have no distinct courts either of
chancery or of admiralty, and their courts of pro-
bates have no jurisdiction of causes. Their common-
law courts have admiralty and, to a certain extent,
equity jurisdiction. In cases of importance, their
General Assembly is the only court of chancery. In
Connecticut, therefore, the trial by jury extends in
practice further than in any other State yet men-
tioned. Rhode Island is, I believe, in this particular,
pretty much in the situation of Connecticut. Massa-
chusetts and New Hampshire, in regard to the blend-
ing of law, equity, and admiralty jurisdictions, are
in a similar predicament. In the four Eastern
States, the trial by jury not only stands upon a
broader foundation than in the other States, but it
is attended with a peculiarity unknown, in its full
extent, to any of them. There is an appeal of course
from one jury to another, till there have been two
verdicts out of three on one side.

From this sketch it appears that there is a ma-
terial diversity, as well in the modification as in the
extent of the institution of trial by jury in civil cases,
in the several States; and from this fact these ob-
vious reflections flow: first, that no general rule
could have been fixed upon by the convention which
would have corresponded with the circumstances of
all the States ; and secondly, that more or at least as

The Federalist 311

much might have been hazarded by taking the sys-
tem of any one State for a standard, as by omitting
a provision altogether and leaving the matter, as
has been done, to legislative regulation.

The propositions which have been made for sup-
plying the omission have rather served to illustrate
than to obviate the difficulty of the thing. The
minority of Pennsylvania have proposed this mode
of expression for the purpose — ''Trial by jury shall
be as heretofore" — and this I maintain would be
senseless and nugatory. The United States, in their
united or collective capacity, are the object to which
all general provisions in the Constitution must neces-
sarily be construed to refer. Now it is evident that
though trial by jury, with various limitations, is
known in each State individually, yet in the United
States, as such, it is at this time altogether unknown,
because the present federal government has no
judiciary power whatever; and consequently there
is no proper antecedent or previous establishment to
which the term heretofore could relate. It would
therefore be destitute of a precise meaning, and in-
operative from its uncertainty.

As, on the one hand, the form of the provision
would not fulfil the intent of its proposers, so, on the
other, if I apprehend that intent rightly, it would be
in itself inexpedient. I presume it to be, that causes
in the federal courts should be tried by jury, if, in
the State where the courts sat, that mode of trial
would obtain in a similar case in the State courts;
that is to say, admiralty causes should be tried in
Connecticut by a jury, in New York without one.

312 Alexander Hamilton

The capricious operation of so dissimilar a method
of trial in the same cases, under the same govern-
ment, is of itself sufficient to indispose every well-
regulated judgment towards it. Whether the cause
should be tried with or without a jury, would depend,
in a great number of cases, on the accidental situa-
tion of the court and parties.

But this is not, in my estimation, the greatest ob-
jection. I feel a deep and deliberate conviction that
there are many cases in which the trial by jury is an
ineligible one. I think it so particularly in cases
which concern the public peace with foreign nations
— that is in most cases where the question turns
wholly on the laws of nations. Of this nature,
among others, are all prize causes. Juries cannot
be supposed competent to investigations that re-
quire a thorough knowledge of the laws and usages of
nations; and they will sometimes be under the in-
fluence of impressions which will not suffer them to
pay sufficient regard to those considerations of public
policy which ought to guide their inquiries. There
would of course be always danger that the rights of
other nations might be infringed by their decisions,
so as to afford occasions of reprisal and war. Though
the proper province of juries be to determine matters
of fact, yet in most cases legal consequences are
complicated with fact in such a manner as to render
a separation impracticable.

It will add great weight to this remark, in relation
to prize causes, to mention that the method of deter-
mining them has been thought worthy of particular
regulation in various treaties between different pow-

The Federalist 313

ers of Europe, and that, pursuant to such treaties,
they are determinable in Great Britain, in the last
resort, before the king himself, in his privy coun-
cil, where the fact, as well as the law, undergoes a
reexamination. This alone demonstrates the im-
policy of inserting a fundamental provision in the
Constitution which would make the State systems a
standard for the national government in the article
under consideration, and the danger of encumbering
the government with any constitutional provisions
the propriety of which is not indisputable.

My convictions are equally strong that great ad-
vantages result from the separation of the equity
from the law jurisdiction, and that the causes which
belong to the former would be improperly com-
mitted to juries. The great and primary use of a
court of equity is to give relief in extraordinary cases y
which are exceptions ' to general rules. To unite the
jurisdiction of such cases with the ordinary jurisdic-
tion, must have a tendency to unsettle the general
rules, and to subject every case that arises to a
special determination ; while a separation of the one
from the other has the contrary effect of rendering
one a sentinel over the other, and of keeping each
within the expedient limits. Besides this, the cir-
cumstances that constitute cases proper for courts
of equity are in many instances so nice and intricate,
that they are incompatible with the genius of trials
by jury. They require often such long, deliberate,

' It is true that the principles by which that relief is governed are
now reduced to a regular system ; but it is not the less true that they
are in the main applicable to special circumstances, which form
exceptions to general rules. — Publius.

314 Alexander Hamilton

and critical investigation as would be impracticable
to men called from their occupations, and obliged to
decide before they were permitted to return to them.
The simplicity and expedition which form the dis-
tinguishing characters of this mode of trial require
that the matter to be decided should be reduced to
some single and obvious point; while the litigations
usual in chancery frequently comprehend a long
train of minute and independent particulars.

It is true that the separation of the equity from
the legal jurisdiction is peculiar to the English sys-
tem of jurisprudence: which is the model that has
been followed in several of the States. But it is
equally true that the trial by jury has been unknown
in every case in which they have been united. And
the separation is essential to the preservation of that
institution in its pristine purity. The nature of a
court of equity will readily permit the extension of
its jurisdiction to matters of law; but it is not a
little to be suspected, that the attempt to extend the
jurisdiction of the courts of law to matters of equity
will not only be unproductive of the advantages
which may be derived from courts of chancery, on
the plan upon which they are established in this
State, but will tend gradually to change the nature
of the courts of law, and to undermine the trial by
jury, by introducing questions too complicated for a
decision in that mode.

These appeared to be conclusive reasons against
incorporating the systems of all the States, in the
formation of the national judiciary, according to
what may be conjectured to have been the attempt

The Federalist 3^5

of the Pennsylvania minority. Let us now examine
how far the proposition of Massachusetts is calculated
to remedy the supposed defect.

It is in this form: " In civil actions between citi-
zens of different States, every issue of fact, arising in
actions at common law, may be tried by a jury if the
parties, or either of them, request it."

This, at best, is a proposition confined to one de-
scription of causes; and the inference is fair, either
that the Massachusetts convention considered that
as the only class of federal causes, in which the trial
by jury would be proper; or that if desirous of a
more extensive provision, they found it impracti-
cable to devise one which would properly answer the
end. If the first, the omission of a regulation respect-
ing so partial an object can never be considered as
a material imperfection in the system. If the last, it
affords a strong corroboration of the extreme diffi-
culty of the thing.

But this is not all: if we advert to the observa-
tions already made respecting the courts that subsist
in the several States of the Union, and the differ-
ent powers exercised by them, it will appear that
there are no expressions more vague and indetermi-
nate than those which have been employed to charac-
terize that species of causes which it is intended shall
be entitled to a trial by jury. In this State, the
boundaries between actions at common law and ac-
tions of equitable jurisdiction, are ascertained in
conformity to the rules which prevail in England
upon that subject In many of the other States the
boundaries are less precise. In some of them, every

3i6 Alexander Hamilton

cause is to be tried in a court of common law, and
upon that foundation every action may be considered
as an action at common law, to be determined by a
jury, if the parties, or either of them, choose it.
Hence the same irregularity and confusion would
be introduced by a compliance with this proposition,
that I have already noticed as resulting from the
regulation proposed by the Pennsylvania minority.
In one State a cause would receive its determina-
tion from a jury, if the parties, or either of them,
requested it; but in another State, a cause exactly
similar to the other, must be decided without the
intervention of a jury, because the State judicatories
varied as to common-law jurisdiction.

It is obvious, therefore, that the Massachusetts
proposition, upon this subject cannot operate as a
general regulation, until some uniform plan, with
respect to the limits of common-law and equitable
jurisdictions, shall be adopted by the different
States. To devise a plan of that kind, is a task
arduous in itself, and which it would require much
time and reflection to mature. It would be extremely
difficult, if not impossible, to suggest any general
regulation that would be acceptable to all the States
in the Union, or that would perfectly quadrate with
the several State institutions.

It may be asked, Why could not a reference have
been made to the constitution of this State, taking
that, which is allowed by me to be a good one, as a
standard for the United States? I answer that it
is not very probable the other States would enter-
tain the same opinion of our institutions as we do

The Federalist 317

ourselves. It is natural to suppose that they are
hitherto more attached to their own, and that each
would struggle for the preference. If the plan of
taking one State as a model for the whole had been
thought of in the convention, it is to be presumed
that the adoption of it in that body would have been
rendered difficult by the predilection of each repre-
sentation in favor of its own government; and it
must be uncertain which of the States would have
been taken as the model. It has been shown that
many of them would be improper ones. And I leave
it to conjecture, whether, under all circumstances,
it is most likely that New York, or some other State,
would have been preferred. But admit that a
judicious selection could have been effected in the
convention, still there would have been great danger
of jealousy and disgust in the other States, at the
partiality which had been shown to the institutions
of one. The enemies of the plan would have been
furnished with a fine pretext for raising a host of
local prejudices against it, which perhaps might
have hazarded, in no inconsiderable degree, its final
establishment.

To avoid the embarrassments of a definition of
the cases which the trial by jury ought to embrace,
it is sometimes suggested by men of enthusiastic
tempers, that a provision might have been inserted
for establishing it in all cases whatsoever. For this,
I believe, no precedent is to be found in any member
of the Union; and the considerations which have
been stated in discussing the proposition of the mi-
nority of Pennsylvania, must satisfy every sober mind

3i8 Alexander Hamilton

that the establishment of the trial by jury in all cases
would have been an unpardonable error in the plan.

In short, the more it is considered the more ardu-
ous will appear the task of fashioning a provision
in such a form as not to express too little to answer
the purpose, or too much to be advisable; or which
might not have opened other sources of opposition
to the great and essential object of introducing a firm
national government.

I cannot but persuade myself, on the other hand,
that the different lights in which the subject has
been placed in the course of these observations, will
go far towards removing in candid minds the appre-
hensions they may have entertained on the point.
They have tended to show that the security of lib-
erty is materially concerned only in the trial by jury
in criminal cases, which is provided for in the most
ample manner in the plan of the convention; that
even in far the greatest proportion of civil cases, and
those in which the great body of the community is
interested, that mode of trial will remain in its full
force, as established in the State constitutions, un-
touched and unaffected by the plan of the conven-
tion ; that it is in no case abolished ^ by that plan ;
and that there are great if not insurmountable diffi-
culties in the way of making any precise and proper
provision for it in a Constitution for the United
States.

The best judges of the matter will be the least

* Vide No. LXXXI., in which the supposition of its being abolished
by the appellate jtirisdiction in matters of fact being vested in the
Supreme Cotirt, is examined and refuted. — Publius.

The Federalist 319

anxious for a constitutional establishment of the
trial by jury in civil cases, and will be the most ready
to admit that the changes which are continually
happening in the affairs of society may render a
different mode of determining questions of property
preferable in many cases in which that mode of trial
now prevails. For my part, I acknowledge myself
to be convinced that even in this State it might
be advantageously extended to some cases to which
it does not at present apply, and might as advan-
tageously be abridged in others. It is conceded by
by all reasonable men that it ought not to obtain
in all cases. The examples of innovations which
contract its ancient limits, as well in these States as
in Great Britain, afford a strong presimiption that
its former extent has been found inconvenient, and
give room to suppose that future experience may
discover the propriety and utility of other excep-
tions. I suspect it to be impossible in the nature of
the thing to fix the salutary point at which the
operation of the institution ought to stop, and
this is with me a strong argument for leaving the
matter to the discretion of the legislature.

This is now clearly understood to be the case in
Great Britain, and it is equally so in the State of
Connecticut ; and yet it may be safely affirmed that
more numerous encroachments have been made upon
the trial by jury in this State since the Revolution,
though provided for by a positive article of our con-
stitution, than has happened in the same time either
in Connecticut or Great Britain. It may be added
that these encroachments have generally originated

320 Alexander Hamilton

with the men who endeavor to persuade the people
they are the warmest defenders of popular liberty,
but who have rarely suffered constitutional obstacles
to arrest them in a favorite career. The truth is
that the general genius of a government is all that
can be substantially relied upon for permanent
effects. Particular provisions, though not alto-
gether useless, have far less virtue and efhcacy than
are commonly ascribed to them; and the want of
them will never be, with men of sound discernment,
a decisive objection to any plan which exhibits the
leading characters of a good government.

It certainly sounds not a little harsh and extra-
ordinary to affirm that there is no security for lib-
erty in a Constitution which expressly establishes
the trial by jury in criminal cases, because it does
not do it in civil also; while it is a notorious fact
that Connecticut, which has been always regarded
as the most popular State in the Union, can boast of
no constitutional provision for either.

PUBLIUS.

From McLean's Edition, New York, M.DCC.LXXXVIII
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXXIV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

In the course of the foregoing review of the Con-
stitution, I have taken notice of, and endeavored to
answer most of the objections which have appeared
against it. There, however, remain a few which

The Federalist 321

either did not fall naturally under any particular
head or were forgotten in their proper places. These
shall now be discussed; but as the subject has been
drawn into great length, I shall so far consult brevity
as to comprise all my observations on these miscel-
laneous points in a single paper.

The most considerable of the remaining objections
is that the plan of the convention contains no bill
of rights. Among other answers given to this, it has
been upon different occasions remarked that the con-
stitutions of several of the States are in a similar
predicament. I add that New York is of the num-
ber. And yet the opposers of the new system, in
this State, who profess an unlimited admiration for
its constitution, are among the most intemperate
partisans of a bill of rights. To justify their zeal in
this matter, they allege two things: one is that,
though the constitution of New York has no bill of
rights prefixed to it, yet it contains, in the body of
it, various provisions in favor of particular privileges
and rights, which, in substance, amount to the same
thing; the other is, that the Constitution adopts, in
their full extent, the common and statute law of
Great Britain, by which many other rights, not ex-
pressed in it, are equally secured.

To the first I answer, that the Constitution
proposed by the convention contains, as well as
the constitution of this State, a number of such
provisions.

Independent of those which relate to the structure
of the government, we find the following: Article i,
section 3, clause 7 — ''Judgment in cases of impeach-

VOL. XII. — 21.

322 Alexander Hamilton

ment shall not extend further than to removal from
office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any
office of honor, trust, or profit under the United
States; but the party convicted shall, nevertheless,
be liable and subject to indictment, trial, judgment,
and punishment according to law." Section 9, of
the same article, clause 2 — ''The privilege of the
writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless
when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public
safety may require it." Clause 3 — "No bill of at-
tainder or ex-post-facto law shall be passed." Clause
7 — "No title of nobility shall be granted by the
United States; and no person holding any office of
profit or trust under them, shall, without the con-
sent of the Congress, accept of any present, emolu-
ment, office, or title of any kind whatever, from any
king, prince, or foreign state." Article 3, section 2,
clause 3 — "The trial of all crimes, except in cases of
impeachment, shall be by jury; and such trial shall
be held in the State where the said crimes shall have
been committed; but when not committed within
any State, the trial shall be at such place or places
as the Congress may by law have directed." Sec-
tion 3, of the same article — "Treason against the
United States shall consist only in levying war
against them, or in adhering to their enemies, giving
them aid and comfort. No person shall be con-
victed of treason, unless on the testimony of two wit-
nesses to the same overt act, or on confession in open
court." And clause 3, of the same section — "The
Congress shall have power to declare the punishment
of treason; but no attainder of treason shall work

The Federalist 323

corruption of blood, or forfeiture, except during the
life of the person attainted."

It may well be a question, whether these are not,
upon the whole, of equal importance with any which
are to be found in the constitution of this State.
The establishment of the writ of habeas corpus, the
prohibition of ex-post-facto laws, and of titles of
NOBILITY, to which wc have no corresponding provision
in our Constitution, are perhaps greater securities to
liberty and republicanism than any it contains. The
creation of crimes after the commission of the fact,
or, in other words, the subjecting of men to punish-
ment for things which, when they were done, were
breaches of no law, and the practice of arbitrary im-
prisonments, have been, in all ages, the favorite and
most formidable instruments of tyranny. The ob-
servations of the judicious Blackstone,^ in reference
to the latter, are well worthy of recital: '* To bereave
a man of life, [says he,] or by violence to confiscate
his estate, without accusation or trial, would be so
gross and notorious an act of despotism, as must at
once convey the alarm of tyranny throughout the
whole nation; but confinement of the person, by
secretly hurrying him to jail, where his sufferings are
unknown or forgotten, is a less public, a less striking,
and therefore a more dangerous engine of arbitrary
government." And as a remedy for this fatal evil
he is everywhere peculiarly emphatical in his en-
comiums on the haheas-corpus act, which in one place
he calls '' the bulwark of the British Constitution," *

' Vide Blackstone's Commentaries , vol. 1., p. 136. — Publius.
3 Ibid, voL iv., p. 438. — Publius.

324 Alexander Hamilton

Nothing need be said to illustrate the importance
of the prohibition of titles of nobility. This may
truly be denominated the corner-stone of repub-
lican government; for so long as they are excluded,
there can never be serious danger that the govern-
ment will be any other than that of the people.

To the second — that is, to the pretended establish-
ment of the common and statute law by the Con-
stitution, I answer, that they are expressly made
subject *'to such alterations and provisions as the
legislature shall from time to time make concerning
the same." They are therefore at any moment
liable to repeal by the ordinary legislative power,
and of course have no constitutional sanction. The
only use of the declaration was to recognize the an-
cient law, and to remove doubts which might have
been occasioned by the Revolution. This conse-
quently can be considered as no part of a declara-
tion of rights, which under our constitutions must
be intended as limitations of the power of the govern-
ment itself.

It has been several times truly remarked that
bills of rights are, in their origin, stipulations be-
tween kings and their subjects, abridgments of
prerogative in favor of privilege, reservations of
rights not surrendered to the prince. Such was
Magna Charta, obtained by the barons, sword in
hand, from King John. Such were the subsequent
confirmations of that charter by succeeding princes.
Such was the Petition of Right assented to by Charles
I., in the beginning of his reign. Such, also, was the
Declaration of Right presented by the Lords and

The Federalist 325

Commons to the Prince of Orange in 1688, and
afterwards thrown into the form of an act of parHa-
ment called the Bill of Rights. It is evident, there-
fore, that, according to their primitive signification
they have no application to constitutions professedly
founded upon the power of the people, and executed
by their immediate representatives and servants.
Here, in strictness, the people surrender nothing;
and as they retain every thing they have no need of
particular reservations. "We, the people of the
United States, to secure the blessings of liberty to
ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish
this Constitution for the United States of America.**
Here is a better recognition of popular rights, than
volumes of those aphorisms which make the prin-
cipal figure in several of our State bills of rights, and
which would sound much better in a treatise of ethics
than in a constitution of government.

But a minute detail of particular rights is certainly
far less applicable to a Constitution like that under
consideration, which is merely intended to regulate
the general political interests of the nation, than to
a constitution which has the regulation of every
species of personal and private concerns. If, there-
fore, the loud clamors against the plan of the con-
vention on this score, are well founded, no epithets
of reprobation will be too strong for the constitution
of this State. But the truth is, that both of them
contain all which, in relation to their objects, is
reasonably to be desired.

I go further, and affirm that bills of rights, in the
sense and to the extent in which they are contended

326 Alexander Hamilton

for, are not only unnecessary in the proposed Con-
stitution, but would even be dangerous. They
would contain various exceptions to powers not
granted; and, on this very account, would afford a
colorable pretext to claim more than were granted.
For why declare that things shall not be done which
there is no power to do ? Why, for instance, should
it be said that the liberty of the press shall not be
restrained, when no power is given by which restric-
tions may be imposed? I will not contend that
such a provision would confer a regulating power;
but it is evident that it would furnish, to men dis-
posed to usurp, a plausible pretence for claiming
that power. They might urge with a semblance of
reason, that the Constitution ought not to be
charged with the absurdity of providing against the
abuse of an authority which was not given, and that
the provision against restraining the liberty of the
press afforded a clear implication, that a power to
prescribe proper regulations concerning it was in-
tended to be vested in the national government.
This may serve as a specimen of the numerous
handles which would be given to the doctrine of con-
structive powers, by the indulgence of an injudicious
zeal for bills of rights.

On the subject of the liberty of the press, as much
as has been said, I cannot forbear adding a remark
or two: in the first place, I observe, that there is
not a syllable concerning it in the constitution of
this State; in the next, I contend, that whatever
has been said about it in that of any other State
amounts to nothing. What signifies a declaration

The Federalist 327

that '*the Hberty of the press shall be inviolably
preserved"? What is the liberty of the press?
Who can give it any definition which would not
leave the utmost latitude for evasion? I hold it to
be impracticable; and from this I infer, that its se-
curity, whatever fine declarations may be inserted
in any constitution respecting it, must altogether
depend on public opinion, and on the general spirit
of the people and of the government.' And here,
after all, as is intimated upon another occasion,
must we seek for the only solid basis of all our rights.
There remains but one other view of this matter
to conclude the point. The truth is, after all the
declamations we have heard, that the Constitution
is itself, in every rational sense, and to every useful
purpose, A BILL OF RIGHTS. The several bills of

^ To show that there is a power in the Constitution by which the
liberty of the press may be affected, recourse has been had to the
power of taxation. It is said that duties may be laid upon the pub-
lications so high as to amount to a prohibition. I know not by what
logic it could be maintained, that the declarations in the State con-
stitutions, in favor of the freedom of the press, would be a constitu-
tional impediment to the imposition of duties upon publications by
the State legislatures. It cannot certainly be pretended that any
degree of duties, however low, would be an abridgment of the liberty
of the press. We know that newspapers are taxed in Great Britain,
and yet it is notorious that the press nowhere enjoys greater liberty
than in that country. And if duties of any kind may be laid without
a violation of that liberty, it is evidenl^ that the extent must depend
on legislative discretion, regulated by public opinion; so that, after
all, general declarations respecting the liberty of the press, will give
it no greater security than it will have without them. The same in-
vasions of it may be effected tinder the State constitutions which con-
tain those declarations through the means of taxation, as under the
proposed Constitution, which has nothing of the kind. It would be
quite as significant to declare that government ought to be free, that
taxes ought not to be excessive, etc., as that the liberty of the press
ought not to be restrained. — Publius.

328 Alexander Hamilton

rights in Great Britain form its Constitution, and
conversely the constitution of each State is its
bill of rights. And the proposed Constitution, if
adopted, will be the bill of rights of the Union. Is it
one object of a bill of rights to declare and specify
the political privileges of the citizens in the structure
and administration of the government? This is
done in the most ample and precise manner in the
plan of the convention; comprehending various
precautions for the public security, which are not to
be found in any of the State constitutions. Is an-
other object of a bill of rights to define certain
immunities and modes of proceeding, which are
relative to personal and private concerns? This
we have seen has also been attended to, in a variety
of cases, in the same plan. Adverting therefore to
the substantial meaning of a bill of rights, it is ab-
surd to allege that it is not to be found in the work
of the convention. It may be said that it does not
go far enough, though it will not be easy to make
this appear; but it can with no propriety be con-
tended that there is no such thing. It certainly
must be immaterial what mode is observed as to
the order of declaring the rights of the citizens, if
they are to be found in any part of the instrument
which establishes the government. And hence it must
be apparent, that much of what has been said on this
subject rests merely on verbal and nominal distinc-
tions, entirely foreign from the substance of the thing.
Another objection which has been made, and
which, from the frequency of its repetition, it is to
be presimied is relied on, is of this nature: ''It is

The Federalist 329

improper [say the objectors] to confer such large
powers as are proposed, upon the national govern-
ment, because the seat of that government must of
necessity be too remote from many of the States to
admit of a proper knowledge on the part of the con-
stituent, of the conduct of the representative body."
This argument, if it proves any thing, proves that
there ought to be no general government whatever.
For the powers which, it seems to be agreed on all
hands, ought to be vested in the Union, cannot be
safely intrusted to a body which is not under every
requisite control. But there are satisfactory reasons
to show that the objection is in reality not well
founded. There is in most of the arguments which
relate to distance a palpable illusion of the imagina-
tion. What are the sources of information by which
the people in Montgomery County must regulate
their judgment of the conduct of their representa-
tives in the State legislature ? Of personal observa-
tion they can have no benefit. This is confined to
the citizens on the spot. They must therefore de-
pend on the information of intelligent men, in whom
they confide ; and how must these men obtain their
information? Evidently from the complexion of
public measures, from the public prints, from cor-
respondences with their representatives, and with
other persons who reside at the place of their de-
liberations. This does not apply to Montgomery
County only, but to all the counties at any consid-
erable distance from the seat of government.

It is equally evident that the same sources of in-
formation would be open to the people in relation to

^^o Alexander Hamilton

the conduct of their representatives in the general
government, and the impediments to a prompt com-
munication which distance may be supposed to
create, will be overbalanced by the effects of the
vigilance of the State governments. The executive
and legislative bodies of each State will be so many
sentinels over the persons employed in every de-
partment of the national administration; and as it
will be in their power to adopt and pursue a regular
and effectual system of intelligence, they can never
be at a loss to know the behavior of those who re-
present their constituents in the national councils,
and can readily communicate the same knowledge
to the people. Their disposition to apprise the com-
munity of whatever may prejudice its interests from
another quarter, may be relied upon, if it were only
from the rivalship of power. And we may conclude
with the fullest assurance that the people, through
that channel, will be better informed of the conduct
of their national representatives, than they can be
by any means they now possess of that of their State
representatives .

It ought also to be remembered that the citizens
who inhabit the country at and near the seat of
government will, in all questions that affect the gen-
eral liberty and prosperity, have the same interest
with those who are at a distance, and that they will
stand ready to sound the alarm when necessary,
and to point out the actors in any pernicious project.
The public papers will be expeditious messengers of
intelligence to the most remote inhabitants of the
Union.

The Federalist 33 1

Among the many curious objections which have
appeared against the proposed Constitution, the
most extraordinary and the least colorable is de-
rived from the want of some provision respecting
the debts due to the United States. This has been
represented as a tacit relinquishment of those
debts, and as a wicked contrivance to screen public
defaulters. The newspapers have teemed with the
most inflammatory railings on this head; yet there
is nothing clearer than that the suggestion is entirely
void of foundation, the offspring of extreme ignor-
ance or extreme dishonesty. In addition to the
remarks I have made upon the subject in another
place, I shall only observe that as it is a plain dictate
of common-sense, so it is also an established doctrine
of political law, that ''states neither lose any of their
rights, nor are discharged from any of their obligations,
by a change in the form of their civil government.''' ^

The last objection of any consequence, which I at
present recollect, turns upon the article of expense.
If it were even true, that the adoption of the pro-
posed government would occasion a considerable in-
crease of expense, it would be an objection that
ought to have no weight against the plan.

The great bulk of the citizens of America are with
reason convinced, that Union is the basis of their
political happiness. Men of sense of all parties now,
with few exceptions, agree that it cannot be pre-
served under the present system, nor without radical

' Vide Rutherford's Institutes, vol. ii., book ii, chap, x., sects, xiv.
and XV. Vide also Grotius, book ii, chap, ix., sects, viii. and ix. —

PUBLIUS.

S3^ Alexander Hamilton

alterations; that new and extensive powers ought
to be granted to the national head, and that these
require a different organization of the federal gov-
ernment— a single body being an unsafe depositary
of such ample authorities. In conceding all this, the
question of expense must be given up; for it is im-
possible, with any degree of safety, to narrow the
foundation upon which the system is to stand. The
two branches of the legislature are, in the first in-
stance, to consist of only sixty-five persons, which
is the same number of which Congress, under the
existing Confederation, may be composed. It is
true that this number is intended to be increased;
but this is to keep pace with the progress of the
population and resources of the country. It is evi-
dent that a less number would, even in the first in-
stance, have been unsafe, and that a continuance
of the present number would, in a more advanced
stage of population, be a very inadequate repre-
sentation of the people.

Whence is the dreaded augmentation of expense
to spring? One source indicated, is the multiplica-
tion of offices under the new government. Let us
examine this a little.

It is evident that the principal departments of the
administration under the present government, are
the same which will be required imder the new.
There are now a Secretary of War, a Secretary of
Foreign Affairs, a Secretary for Domestic Affairs, a
Board of Treasury, consisting of three persons, a
Treasurer, assistants, clerks, etc. These officers are
indispensable under any system, and will suffice

The Federalist 333

under the new as well as the old. As to ambas-
sadors and other ministers and agents in foreign
countries, the proposed Constitution can make no
other difference than to render their characters,
where they reside, more respectable, and their serv-
ices more useful. As to persons to be employed in
the collection of the revenues, it is unquestionably
true that these will form a very considerable addi-
tion to the number of federal officers ; but it will not
follow that this will occasion an increase of public
expense. It will be in most cases nothing more than
an exchange of State for national officers. In the
collection of all duties, for instance, the persons em-
ployed will be wholly of the latter description. The
States individually will stand in no need of any for
this purpose. What difference can it make in point
of expense to pay officers of the customs appointed
by the State or by the United States ? [There is no
good reason to suppose that either the number or
the salaries of the latter will be greater than those
of the former.] '

Where then are we to seek for those additional
articles of expense which are to swell the account to
the enormous size that has been represented to us?
The chief item which occurs to me respects the sup-
port of the judges of the United States. I do not
add the President, because there is now a president
of Congress, whose expenses may not be far, if any
thing, short of those which will be incurred on
account of the President of the United States.
The support of the judges will clearly be an extra

* This sentence in brackets is omitte^ in the revised text.

334 Alexander Hamilton

expense, but to what extent will depend on the
particular plan which may be adopted in regard to
this matter. But upon no reasonable plan can it
amount to a simi which will be an object of material
consequence.

Let us now see what there is to counterbalance
any extra expense that may attend the establish-
ment of the proposed government. The first thing
which presents itself is that a great part of the busi-
ness which now keeps Congress sitting through the
year will be transacted by the President. Even the
management of foreign negotiations will naturally
devolve upon him, according to general principles
concerted with the Senate, and subject to their final
concurrence. Hence it is evident that a portion of
the year will suffice for the session of both the Senate
and the House of Representatives ; we may suppose
about a fourth for the latter and a third, or perhaps
half, for the former. The extra business of treaties
and appointments may give this extra occupation
to the Senate. From this circumstance we may
infer that, until the House of Representatives shall
be increased greatly beyond its present number,
there will be a considerable saving of expense from the
difference between the constant session of the present
and the temporary session of the future Congress.

But there is another circumstance of great im-
portance in the view of economy. The business of
the United States has hitherto occupied the State
legislatures, as well as Congress. The latter has
made requisitions which the former have had to
provide for. Hence it has happened that the ses-

The Federalist 335

sions of the State legislatures have been protracted
greatly beyond what was necessary for the execution
of the mere local business of the States. More than
half their time has been frequently employed in
matters which related to the United States. Now
the members who compose the legislatures of the
several States amount to two thousand and upwards,
which number has hitherto performed what under
the new system will be done in the first instance by
sixty-five persons, and probably at no future period
by above a fourth or a fifth of that number. The
Congress under the proposed government will do all
the business of the United States themselves, with-
out the intervention of the State legislatures, who
thenceforth will have only to attend to the affairs
of their particular States, and will not have to sit in
any proportion as long as they have heretofore done.
This difference in the time of the sessions of the State
legislatures will be clear gain, and will alone form an
article of saving, which may be regarded as an
equivalent for any additional objects of expense
that may be occasioned by the adoption of the new
system.

The result from these observations is that the
sources of additional expense from the establishment
of the proposed Constitution are much fewer than
may have been imagined; that they are counter-
balanced by considerable objects of saving; and
that while it is questionable on which side the scale
will preponderate, it is certain that a government
less expensive would be incompetent to the purposes
of the Union. Publius.

33^ Alexander Hamilton

From McLean's Edition, New York, M.DCC.LXXXVIII
THE FEDERALIST. No. LXXXV

(HAMILTON)

To the People of the State of New York:

According to the formal division of the subject of
these papers, announced in my first number, there
would appear still to remain for discussion two
points: "the analogy of the proposed government
to your own State constitution," and " the additional
security which its adoption will afford to republican
government, to liberty, and to property." But
these heads have been so fully anticipated and ex-
hausted in the progress of the work, that it would
now scarcely be possible to do any thing more than
repeat, in a more dilated form, what has been here-
tofore said, which the advanced stage of the question,
and the time already spent upon it, conspire to
forbid.

It is remarkable, that the resemblance of the plan
of the convention to the act which organizes the
government of this State holds, not less with regard
to many of the supposed defects, than to the real
excellences of the former. Among the pretended
defects are the reeligibility of the Executive, the
want of a council, the omission of a formal bill of
rights, the omission of a provision respecting the
liberty of the press. These and several others which
have been noted in the course of our inquiries are as
much chargeable on the existing constitution of this
State, as on the one proposed for the Union; and a

The Federalist 337

man must have slender pretensions to consistency,
who can rail at the latter for imperfections which he
finds no difficulty in excusing in the former. Nor
indeed can there be a better proof of the insincerity
and affectation of some of the zealous adversaries of
the plan of the convention among us, who profess
to be the devoted admirers of the government under
which they live, than the fury with which they have
attacked that plan, for matters in regard to which
our own constitution is equally or perhaps more
vulnerable.

The additional securities to republican govern-
ment, to liberty, and to property, to be derived from
the adoption of the plan under consideration, con-
sist chiefly in the restraints which the preservation
of the Union will impose on local factions and in-
surrections, and on the ambition of powerful indi-
viduals in single States, who may acquire credit and
influence enough, from leaders and favorites, to be-
come the despots of the people; in the diminution
of the opportunities to foreign intrigue, which the
dissolution of the Confederacy would invite and
facilitate; in the prevention of extensive military
establishments which could not fail to grow out of
wars between the States in a disunited situation ; in
the express guaranty of a republican form of govern-
ment to each; in the absolute and universal exclu-
sion of titles of nobility; and in the precautions
against the repetition of those practices on the part
of the State governments which have undermined
the foundations of property and credit, have planted
mutual distrust in the breasts of all classes of citizens,

VOL. XII.— 22.

33^ Alexander Hamilton

and have occasioned an almost universal prostration
of morals.

Thus have I, fellow-citizens, executed the task I
had assigned to myself; with what success, your con-
duct must determine. I trust at least you will admit
that I have not failed in the assurance I gave you
respecting the spirit with which my endeavors
should be conducted. I have addressed myself
purely to your judgments, and have studiously
avoided those asperities which are too apt to dis-
grace political disputants of all parties, and which
have been not a little provoked by the language and
conduct of the opponents of the Constitution. The
charge of a conspiracy against the liberties of the
people, which has been indiscriminately brought
against the advocates of the plan, has something in
it too wanton and too malignant, not to excite the
indignation of every man who feels in his own bosom
a refutation of the calumny. The perpetual changes
which have been rung upon the wealthy, the well-
bom, and the great, have been such as to inspire the
disgust of all sensible men. And the unwarrantable
concealments and misrepresentations which have
been in various ways practised to keep the truth
from the public eye, have been of a nature to demand
the reprobation of all honest men. It is not impos-
sible that these circumstances may have occasionally
betrayed me into intemperances of expression which I
did not intend ; it is certain that I have frequently felt
a struggle between sensibility and moderation ; and if
the former has in some instances prevailed, it must
be my excuse that it has been neither often nor much.

The Federalist 339

Let us now pause and ask ourselves whether, in
the course of these papers, the proposed Constitution
has not been satisfactorily vindicated from the as-
persions thrown upon it; and whether it has not
been shown to be worthy of the public approbation,
and necessary to the public safety and prosperity.
Every man is bound to answer these questions to
himself, according to the best of his conscience and
understanding, and to act agreeably to the genuine
and sober dictates of his judgment. This is a duty
from which nothing can give him a dispensation.
'T is one that he is called upon, nay, constrained by
all the obligations that form the bands of society, to
discharge sincerely and honestly. No partial mo-
tive, no particular interest, no pride of opinion, no
temporary passion or prejudice, will justify to him-
self, to his country, or to his posterity, an improper
election of the part he is to act. Let him beware of
an obstinate adherence to party ; let him reflect that
the object upon which he is to decide is not a par-
ticular interest of the community, but the very
existence of the nation ; and let him remember that
a majority of America has already given its sanction
to the plan which he is to approve or reject.

I shall not dissemble that I feel an entire con-
fidence in the arguments which recommend the
proposed system to your adoption, and that I am
unable to discern any real force in those by which it
has been opposed. I am persuaded that it is the
best which our political situation, habits, and opin-
ions will admit, and superior to any the revolution
has produced.

340 Alexander Hamilton

Concessions on the part of the friends of the plan,
that it has not a claim to absolute perfection, have
afforded matter of no small triumph to its enemies.
''Why," say they, ''should we adopt an imperfect
thing? Why not amend it and make it perfect be-
fore it is irrevocably established?" This may be
plausible enough, but it is only plausible. In the
first place I remark, that the extent of these conces-
sions has been greatly exaggerated. They have been
stated as amounting to an admission that the plan
is radically defective, and that without material
alterations the rights and the interests of the com-
munity cannot be safely confided to it. This, as far
as I have understood the meaning of those who make
the concessions, is an entire perversion of their sense.
No advocate of the measure can be found, who will
not declare as his sentiment, that the system, though
it may not be perfect in every part, is, upon the
whole, a good one; is the best that the present views
and circumstances of the country will permit; and
is such an one as promises every species of security
which a reasonable people can desire.

I answer in the next place, that I should esteem it
the extreme of imprudence to prolong the precarious
state of our national affairs, and to expose the Union
to the jeopardy of successive experiments, in the
chimerical pursuit of a perfect plan. I never expect
to see a perfect work from imperfect man. The re-
sult of the deliberations of all collective bodies must
necessarily be a compound, as well of the errors and
prejudices, as of the good sense and wisdom, of the
individuals of whom they are composed. The com-

The Federalist 34 1

pacts which are to embrace thirteen distinct States
in a common bond of amity and union, must as
necessarily be a compromise of as many dissimilar
interests and inclinations. How can perfection
spring from such materials?

The reasons assigned in an excellent little pam-
phlet lately published in this city,' are unanswerable
to show the utter improbability of assembling a new
convention, under circumstances in any degree so
favorable to a happy issue, as those in which the late
convention met, deliberated, and concluded. I will
not repeat the arguments there used, as I presume
the production itself has had an extensive circula-
tion. It is certainly well worthy the perusal of every
friend to his country. There is, however, one point
of light in which the subject of amendments still
remains to be considered, and in which it has not
yet been exhibited to public view. I cannot resolve
to conclude without first taking a survey of it in this
aspect.

It appears to me susceptible of absolute demon-
stration, that it will be far more easy to obtain
subsequent than previous amendments to the Con-
stitution. The moment an alteration is made in the
present plan, it becomes, to the purpose of adoption,
a new one, and must undergo a new decision of each
State. To its complete establishment throughout
the Union, it will therefore require the concurrence
of thirteen States. If, on the contrary, the Con-
stitution proposed should once be ratified by all the

I Entitled An Address to the People of the State of New York. —

PUBLIUS,

342 Alexander Hamilton

States as it stands, alterations in it may at any time
be effected by nine States. Here, then, the chances
are as thirteen to nine ' in favor of subsequent amend-
ment, rather than of the original adoption of an
entire system.

This is not all. Every Constitution for the United
States must inevitably consist of a great variety of
particulars, in which thirteen independent States are
to be accommodated in their interests or opinions of
interest. We may of course expect to see, in any
body of men charged with its original formation,
very different combinations of the parts upon differ-
ent points. Many of those who form a majority on
one question, may become the minority on a second,
and an association dissimilar to either may consti-
tute the majority on a third. Hence the necessity
of moulding and arranging all the particulars which
are to compose the whole, in such a manner as to
satisfy all the parties to the compact ; and hence, also
an immense multiplication of difficulties and casual-
ties in obtaining the collective assent to a final act.
The degree of that multiplication must evidently be
in a ratio to the number of particulars and the num-
ber of parties.

But every amendment to the Constitution, if once
established, would be a single proposition, and might
be brought forward singly. There would then be
no necessity for management or compromise, in re-
lation to any other point — no giving nor taking. The
will of the requisite number would at once bring

' It may rather be said ten, for though two thirds may set on foot
the measure, three fourths must ratify. — Publius,

The Federalist 343

the matter to a decisive issue. And consequently,
whenever nine, or rather ten States, were united in the
desire of a particular amendment, that amendment
must infallibly take place. There can, therefore,
be no comparison between the facility of affecting
an amendment, and that of establishing in the first
instance a complete Constitution.

In opposition to the probability of subsequent
amendments, it has been urged that the persons dele-
gated to the administration of the national gov-
ernment will always be disinclined to yield up any
portion of the authority of which they were once pos-
sessed. For my own part, I acknowledge a thorough
conviction that any amendments which may, upon
mature consideration, be thought useful, will be ap-
plicable to the organization of the government, not
to the mass of its powers ; and on this account alone,
I think there is no weight in the observation just
stated. I also think there is little weight in it on
another account. The intrinsic difficulty of govern-
ing thirteen States at any rate, independent of calcu-
lations upon an ordinary degree of public spirit and
integrity, will, in my opinion, constantly impose on
the national rulers the necessity of a spirit of accom-
modation to the reasonable expectations of their
constituents. But there is yet a further considera-
tion, which proves beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that the observation is futile. It is this, that the
national rulers, whenever nine States concur, will
have no option upon the subject. By the fifth ar-
ticle of the plan, the Congress will be obliged "on
the application of the legislatures of two thirds of

344 Alexander Hamilton

the States [which at present amount to nine], to call
a convention for proposing amendments, which shall
be valid, to all intents and purposes, as part of the
Constitution, when ratified by the legislatures of
three fourths of the States, or by conventions in three
fourths thereof." The words of this article are
peremptory. The Congress '' shall call a conven-
tion." Nothing in this particular is left to the dis-
cretion of that body. And of consequence, all the
declamation about the disinclination to a change
vanishes in air. Nor however difficult it may be
supposed to unite two thirds or three fourths of the
State legislatures, in amendments which may affect
local interests, can there be any room to apprehend
any such difficulty in a union on points which are
merely relative to the general liberty or security of
the people. We may safely rely on the disposition
of the State legislatures to erect barriers against the
encroachments of the national authority.

If the foregoing argument is a fallacy, certain it is
that I am myself deceived by it, for it is, in my
conception, one of those rare instances in which a
political truth can be brought to the test of a mathe-
matical demonstration. Those who see the matter
in the same light with me, however zealous they may
be for amendments, must agree in the propriety of
a previous adoption, as the most direct road to their
own object.

The zeal for attempts to amend, prior to the es-
tablishment of the Constitution, must abate in every
man who is ready to accede to the truth of the fol-
lowing observations of a writer equally solid and

The Federalist 345

ingenious: ''To balance a large state or society
[says he], whether monarchical or republican, on
general laws, is a work of so great difficulty, that no
human genius, however comprehensive, is able, by
the mere dint of reason and reflection, to effect it.
The judgments of many must unite in the work ; ex-
perience must guide their labor ; time must bring it
to perfection, and the feeling of inconveniences must
correct the mistakes which they inevitably fall into
in their first trials and experiments." ' These judi-
cious reflections contain a lesson of moderation to
all the sincere lovers of the Union, and ought to put
them upon their guard against hazarding anarchy,
civil war, a perpetual alienation of the States from
each other, and perhaps the military despotism of a
victorious demagogue, in the pursuit of what they
are not likely to obtain, but from time and experi-
ence. It may be in me a defect of political fortitude,
but I acknowledge that I cannot entertain an equal
tranquillity with those who affect to treat the dan-
gers of a longer continuance in our present situation
as imaginary. A nation, without a national govern-
ment, is, in my view, an awful spectacle. The estab-
lishment of a Constitution, in time of profound
peace, by the voluntary consent of a whole people, is
a prodigy, to the completion of which I look forward
with trembling anxiety. I can reconcile it to no
rules of prudence to let go the hold we now have,
in so arduous an enterprise, upon seven out of the
thirteen States, and after having passed over so

^ Hume's Essays, vol. i., page 128: "The Rise of Arts and Sciences."

PUBLIUS.

34^ Alexander Hamilton

considerable a part of the ground, to recommence
the course. I dread the more the consequences of
new attempts, because I know that powerful individ-
uals, in this and in other States, are enemies to a gen-
eral national government in every possible shape.

PUBLIUS.

APPENDIX
ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION

ARTICLES of Confederation and perpetual Union
between the States of New Hampshire,
Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island and Providence
Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia.

Article I. The style of this Confederacy shall be
"The United States of America."

Art. II. Each State retains its sovereignty, free-
dom, and independence, and every power, jurisdic-
tion and right, which is not by this Confederation
expressly delegated to the United States in Congress
assembled.

Art. III. The said States hereby severally enter
into a firm league of friendship with each other, for
their common defence, the security of their liberties,
and their mutual and general welfare, binding them-
selves to assist each other against all force offered to,
or attacks made upon them, or any of them, on ac-
count of religion, sovereignty, trade, or any other
pretence whatever.

Art. IV. The better to secure and perpetuate
mutual friendship and intercourse among the people
of the different States in this Union, the free inhabit-
350 Alexander Hamilton

ants of each of these States, paupers, vagabonds, and
fugitives from justice excepted, shall be entitled to
all the privileges and immunities of free citizens in
the several States, and the people of each State shall
have free ingress and regress to and from any other
State, and shall enjoy therein all the privileges of
trade and commerce, subject to the same duties, im-
positions, and restrictions as the inhabitants thereof
respectively, provided that such restrictions shall
not extend so far as to prevent the removal of prop-
erty imported into any State, to any other State of
which the owner is an inhabitant; provided also,
that no imposition, duties, or restriction shall be
laid by any State, on the property of the United
States, or either of them.

If any person guilty of or charged with treason,
felony, or other high misdemeanor in any State,
shall flee from justice, and be found in any of the
United States, he shall, upon demand of the governor
or executive power of the State from which he fled,
be delivered up and removed to the State having
jurisdiction of his offence.

Full faith and credit shall be given in each of
these States to the records, acts, and judicial pro-
ceedings of the courts and magistrates of every other
State.

Art. V. For the more convenient management
of the general interests of the United States, dele-
gates shall be annually appointed in such manner as
the legislature of each State shall direct, to meet in
Congress on the first Monday in November, in every
year, with a power reserved to each State to recall

The Federalist 35 1

its delegates, or any of them, at any time within the
year, and to send others in their stead, for the re-
mainder of the year.

No State shall be represented in Congress by less
than two, nor by more than seven members; and no
person shall be capable of being a delegate for more
than three years in any term of six years, nor shall
any person, being a delegate, be capable of holding
any office under the United States for which he or
another for his benefit receives any salary, fees, or
emolument of any kind.

Each State shall maintain its own delegates in a
meeting of the States, and while they act as members
of the committee of the States.

In determining questions in the United States, in
Congress assembled, each State shall have one vote.

Freedom of speech and debate in Congress shall
not be impeached or questioned in any court or place
out of Congress, and the members of Congress shall
be protected in their persons from arrests and im-
prisonments, during the time of their going to or
from, and attendance on. Congress, except for trea-
son, felony, or breach of the peace.

Art. VI. No State, without the consent of the
United States in Congress assembled, shall send any
embassy to, or receive any embassy from, or enter
into any conference, agreeme:nt, alliance, or treaty
with, any king, prince, or state; nor shall any person
holding any office of profit or trust under the United
States, or any of them, accept of any present, emolu-
ment, office, or title of any kind whatever from any
king, prince, or foreign state; nor shall the United

352 Alexander Hamilton

States in Congress assembled, or any of them, grant
any title of nobility.

No two or more States shall enter into any treaty,
confederation, or alliance whatever between them,
without the consent of the United States in Con-
gress assembled, specifying accurately the purposes
for which the same is to be entered into, and how
long it shall continue.

No State shall lay any imposts or duties, which
may interfere with any stipulations in treaties en-
tered into by the United States in Congress assem-
bled, with any king, prince, or state, in pursuance
of any treaties already proposed by Congress, to the
courts of France and Spain.

No vessels of war shall be kept up in time of peace
by any State, except such number only as shall be
deemed necessary by the United States in Congress
assembled, for the defence of such State or its trade ;
nor shall any body of forces be kept up by any State,
in time of peace, except such number only as in the
judgment of the United States in Congress assembled
shall be deemed requisite to garrison the forts neces-
sary for the defence of such State; but every State
shall always keep up a well regulated and disciplined
militia, sufficiently armed and accoutred, and shall
provide and constantly have ready for use, in public
stores, a due number of field-pieces and tents, and a
proper quantity of arms, ammunition, and camp
equipage.

No State shall engage in any war without the con-
sent of the United States in Congress assembled, un-
less such State be actually invaded by enemies, or

The Federalist 353

shall have received certain advice of a resolution
being formed by some nation of Indians to invade
such State, and the danger is so imminent as not to
admit of a delay till the United States in Congress
assembled can be consulted; nor shall any State
grant commissions to any ships or vessels of war,
nor letters of marque or reprisal, except it be after a
declaration of war by the United States in Congress
assembled, and then only against the kingdom, or
state, and the subjects thereof, against which war
has been so declared, and under such regulations as
shall be established by the United States in Con-
gress assembled, unless such State be infested by
pirates, in which case vessels of war may be fitted
out for that occasion, and kept so long as the danger
shall continue, or until the United States in Congress
assembled shall determine otherwise.

Art. VII. When land forces are raised by any
State for the common defence, all officers of or under
the rank of colonel shall be appointed by the legisla-
ture of each State respectively, by whom such forces
shall be raised, or in such manner as such State shall
direct; and all vacancies shall be filled up by the
State which first made the appointment.

Art. VIII. All charges of war and all other ex-
penses that shall be incurred^ for the common de-
fence or general welfare, and allowed by the United
States in Congress assembled, shall be defrayed out
of a common treasury, which shall be supplied by
the several States, in proportion to the value of all
land within each State, granted to or surveyed for
any person, and such land and the buildings and

VOL. XII,— 23.

354 Alexander Hamilton

improvements thereon shall be estimated according
to such mode as the United States in Congress as-
sembled shall from time to time direct and appoint.

The taxes for paying that proportion shall be laid
and levied by the authority and direction of the
legislatures of the several States within the time
agreed upon by the United States in Congress
assembled.

Art. IX. The United States in Congress assem-
bled shall have the sole and exclusive right and
power of determining on peace and war, except in
the cases mentioned in the sixth article — of sending
and receiving ambassadors — entering into treaties
and alliances, provided that no treaty of commerce
shall be made whereby the legislative power of the
respective States shall be restrained from imposing
such imposts and duties on foreigners as their own
people are subjected to, or from prohibiting the ex-
portation or importation of any species of goods or
commodities whatsoever — of establishing rules for
deciding, in all cases, what captures on land or water
shall be legal, and in what manner prizes taken by
land or naval forces in the service of the United
States shall be divided or appropriated — of granting
letters of marque and reprisal in times of peace —
appointing courts for the trial of piracies and felonies
committed on the high seas, and establishing courts
for receiving and determining finally appeals in all
cases of captures, provided that no member of Con-
gress shall be appointed a judge of any of the said
courts.

The United States in Congress assembled shall

The Federalist 355

also be the last resort on appeal in all disputes and
differences now subsisting or that hereafter raay
arise between two or more States concerning bound-
ary, jurisdiction, or any other cause whatever; which
authority shall always be exercised in the manner
following: — Whenever the legislative or executive
authority or lawful agent of any State in controversy
with another shall present a petition to Congress
stating the matter in question and praying for a
hearing, notice thereof shall be given by order of
Congress to the legislative or executive authority of
the other State in controversy, and a day assigned
for the appearance of the parties by their lawful
agents, who shall then be directed to appoint, by
joint consent, commissioners or judges to constitute
a court for hearing and determining the matter in
question; but if they cannot agree. Congress shall
name three persons out of each of the United States,
and from the list of such persons each party shall al-
ternately strike out one, the petitioners beginning,
until the number shall be reduced to thirteen; and
from that number not less than seven nor more than
nine names, as Congress shall direct, shall, in the
presence of Congress, be drawn out by lot, and the
persons whose names shall be so drawn, or any five
of them, shall be commissioners or judges, to hear
and finally determine the controversy, so always as
a major part of the judges who shall hear the cause
shall agree in the determination ; and if either party
shall neglect to attend at the day appointed, without
showing reasons, which Congress shall judge suffi-
cient, or, being present, shall refuse to strike, the

35^ Alexander Hamilton

Congress shall proceed to nominate three persons
out of each State, and the Secretary of Congress
shall strike in behalf of such party absent or refusing ;
and the judgment and sentence of the court to be
appointed, in the manner before prescribed, shall be
final and conclusive; and if any of the parties shall [
refuse to submit to the authority of such court, or ,^
to appear or defend their claim or cause, the court
shall nevertheless proceed to pronounce sentence or
judgment, which shall in like manner be final and
decisive, the judgment or sentence and other pro-
ceedings being in either case transmitted to Con-
gress, and lodged among the acts of Congress for the
security of the parties concerned: provided that
every commissioner, before he sits in judgment, shall
take an oath, to be administered by one of the judges
of the Supreme or Superior Court of the State where
the cause shall be tried, ''well and truly to hear and
determine the matter in question according to the best
of his judgment, without favor, affection, or hope of
reward,'' provided also that no State shall be deprived
of territory for the benefit of the United States.

All controversies concerning the private right of
soil, claimed under different grants of two or more
States, whose jurisdictions as they may respect such
lands and the States which passed such grants are
adjusted, the said grants or either of them being at
the same time claimed to have originated antecedent
to such settlement of jurisdiction, shall, on the peti-
tion of either party to the Congress of the United
States, be finally determined as near as may be in
the same manner as is before prescribed for deciding

The Federalist 357

disputes respecting territorial jurisdiction between
different States.

The United States in Congress assembled shall
also have the sole and exclusive right and power of
regulating the alloy and value of coin struck by
their own authority, or by that of the respective
States — fixing the standard of weights and measures
throughout the United States — regulating the trade
and managing all affairs with the Indians, not mem-
bers of any of the States, provided that the legis-
lative right of any State within its own limits be
not infringed or violated — establishing and regulating
post-offices from one State to another, throughout
all the United States, and exacting such postage on
the papers passing through the same as may be re-
quisite to defray the expenses of the said office —
appointing all officers of the land forces in the service
of the United States, excepting regimental officers —
appointing all the officers of the naval forces, and
commissioning all officers whatever in the service of
the United States — making rules for the government
and regulation of the said land and naval forces, and
directing their operations.

The United States in Congress assembled shall
have authority to appoint a committee, to sit in the
recess of Congress, to be denominated '' A Committee
of the States," and to consist of one delegate from
each State; to appoint such other committees and
civil officers as may be necessary for managing the
general affairs of the United States under their
direction; and to appoint one of their number to
preside, provided that no person be allowed to serve

35^ Alexander Hamilton

in the office of president more than one year in any
term of three years — to ascertain the necessary sums
of money to be raised for the service of the United
States, and to appropriate and apply the same for
defraying the pubhc expenses — to borrow money, or
emit bills on the credit of the United States, trans-
mitting every half-year to the respective States an
account of the sums of money so borrowed or
emitted — to build and equip a navy — to agree upon
the number of land forces, and to make requisitions
from each State for its quota, in proportion to the
number of white inhabitants in such State; which
requisition shall be binding, and thereupon the
legislature of each State shall appoint the regimental
officers, raise the men, and clothe, arm, and equip
them in a soldier-like manner, at the expense of the
United States, and the officers and men so clothed,
armed, and equipped shall march to the place ap-
pointed, and within the time agreed on by the United
States in Congress assembled; but if the United
States in Congress assembled shall, on consideration
of circumstances, judge proper that any State should
not raise men, or should raise a smaller nimiber than
its quota, and that any other State should raise a
greater number of men than the quota thereof, such
extra number shall be raised, officered, clothed,
armed, and equipped in the same manner as the
quota of such State, unless the legislature of such
State shall judge that such extra nimiber cannot be
safely spared out of the same, in which case they
shall raise, officer, clothe, arm, and equip as many
of such extra number as they judge can be safely

The Federalist 359

spared: and the officers and men, so clothed, armed,
and equipped shall march to the place appointed,
and within the time agreed on, by the United States
in Congress assembled.

The United States in Congress assembled shall
never engage in a war, nor grant letters of marque,
and reprisal in time of peace, nor enter into any
treaties or alliances, nor coin money, nor regulate the
value thereof, nor ascertain the sums and expenses
necessary for the defence and welfare of the United
States, or any of them, nor emit bills, nor borrow
money on the credit of the United States, nor ap-
propriate money, nor agree upon the nimiber of
vessels of war to be built or purchased, or the nimi-
ber of land or sea forces to be raised, nor appoint a
commander-in-chief of the army or navy, unless
nine States assent to the same; nor shall a question
on any other point, except for adjourning from day
to day, be determined, unless by the votes of a
majority of the United States in Congress assembled.

The Congress of the United States shall have power
to adjourn to any time within the year, and to any
place within the United States, so that no period of
adjournment be for a longer duration than the space
of six months, and shall publish the journal of their
proceedings monthly, except such parts thereof re-
lating to treaties, alliances, or military operations,
as in their judgment require secrecy, and the yeas
and nays of the delegates of each State on any ques-
tion shall be entered on the journal, when it is de-
sired by any delegate ; and the delegates of a State,
or any of them, at his or their request, shall be fur-

360 Alexander Hamilton

nished with a transcript of the said journal, except
such parts as are above excepted, to lay before the
legislatures of the several States.

Art. X. The Committee of the States, or any nine
of them, shall be authorized to execute, in the recess
of Congress, such of the powers of Congress as the
United States in Congress assembled, by the consent
of nine States, shall from time to time think expe-
dient to vest them with : provided that no power be
delegated to the said Committee, for the exercise of
which, by the Articles of Confederation, the voice of
nine States in the Congress of the United States as-
sembled is requisite.

Art. XI. Canada, acceding to this Confederation,
and joining in the measures of the United States,
shall be admitted into and entitled to all the advan-
tages of this Union; but no other colony shall be
admitted into the same, unless such admission be
agreed to by nine States.

Art. XII. All bills of credit emitted, moneys
borrowed, and debts contracted by or under the
authority of Congress, before the assembling of the
United States in pursuance of the present Confedera-
tion, shall be deemed and considered as a charge
against the United States, for payment and satisfac-
tion whereof the said United States and the public
faith are hereby solemnly pledged.

Art. XIII. Every State shall abide by the deter-
minations of the United States in Congress assem-
bled, on all questions which by this Confederation are
submitted to them. And the Articles of this Con-
federation shall be inviolably observed by every

The Federalist 361

State, and the Union shall be perpetual; nor shall
any alteration at any time hereafter be made in any
of them, unless such alteration be agreed to in a
Congress of the United States, and be afterwards
confirmed by the legislatures of every State.

And whereas it hath pleased the Great Governor
of the world to incline the hearts of the legislatures
we respectively represent in Congress to approve of
and to authorize us to ratify the said Articles of Con-
federation and perpetual Union, Know ye, That we,
the undersigned delegates, by virtue of the power
and authority to us given for that purpose, do by
these presents, in the name and in behalf of our re-
spective constituents, fully and entirely ratify and
confirm each and every of the said Articles of Con-
federation and perpetual Union, and all and singular
the matters and things therein contained: and we
do further solemnly plight and engage the faith of
our respective constituents that they shall abide by
the determinations of the United States in Congress
assembled, on all questions which by the said Con-
federation are submitted to them. And that the
Articles thereof shall be inviolably observed by the
States we respectively represent, and the Union shall
be perpetual.

THE FEDERAL CONSTITUTION

AS AGREED UPON

BY THE CONVENTION

September 17, 1787

TKHe, tbe IPeople of the United States, in order to form
a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure
domestic Tranquillity, provide for the common
Defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure
the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our pos-
terity, do ordain and establish this CONSTITU-
TION for the United States of America.

ARTICLE I

Section i. All legislative powers herein granted
shall be vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives.

Sect. 2. The House of Representatives shall be
composed of members chosen every second year by
the people of the several States, and the electors in
each State shall have the qualifications requisite for
the electors of most nimierous branch of the State
legislature.
The Federalist 363

No person shall be a representative who shall not
have attained to the age of twenty-five years, and
been seven years a citizen of the United States, and
who shall not, when elected, be an inhabitant of
that State in which he shall be chosen.

Representatives and direct taxes shall be appor-
tioned among the several States which may be
included within this Union, according to their respec-
tive numbers, which shall be determined by adding
to the whole number of free persons, including those
bound to service for a term of years, and excluding
Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other persons.
The actual enumeration shall be made within three
years after the first meeting of the Congress of the
United States, and within every subsequent term of
ten years, in such manner as they shall by law direct.
The number of representatives shall not exceed one
for every thirty thousand, but each State shall have
at least one representative ; and until such enumera-
tion shall be made, the State of New Hampshire shall
be entitled to choose three, Massachusetts eight,
Rhode Island and Providence Plantations one, Con-
necticut five. New York six. New Jersey four, Penn-
sylvania eight, Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia
ten. North Carolina five. South Carolina five, and
Georgia three.

When vacancies happen in the representation
from any State, the executive authority thereof
shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies.

The House of Representatives shall choose their
Speaker and other officers; and shall have the sole
power of impeachment.

364 Alexander Hamilton

Sect. 3. The Senate of the United States shall be
composed of two senators from each State, chosen
by the legislature thereof, for six years; and each
senator shall have one vote.

Immediately after they shall be assembled in con-
sequence of the first election, they shall be divided
as equally as may be into three classes. The seats
of the senators of the first class shall be vacated at
the expiration of the second year, the second class at
the expiration of the fourth year and the third class
at the expiration of the sixth year, so that one third
may be chosen every second year ; and if vacancies
happen, by resignation or otherwise, during the re-
cess of the legislature of any State, the Executive
thereof may make temporary appointments until
the next meeting of the legislature, which shall then
fill such vacancies.

No person shall be a senator who shall not have
attained to the age of thirty years, and been nine
years a citizen of the United States, and who shall
not, when elected, be an inhabitant of that State for
which he shall be chosen.

The Vice-President of the United States shall be
president of the Senate, but shall have no vote, un-
less they be equally divided.

The Senate shall choose their other officers, and
also a president pro tempore, in the absence of the
Vice-President, or when he shall exercise the office
of President of the United States.

The Senate shall have the sole power to try all im-
peachments. When sitting for that purpose they
shall be on oath or affirmation. When the President

The Federalist 365

of the United States is tried, the Chief- Justice shall
preside. And no person shall be convicted without
the concurrence of two thirds of the members present.

Judgment in cases of impeachment shall not ex-
tend further than to removal from office, and dis-
qualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor,
trust, or profit under the United States; but the
party convicted shall, nevertheless, be liable and
subject to mdictment, trial, judgment, and punish-
ment, according to law.

Sect. 4. The times, places, and manner of hold-
ing elections for senators and representatives shall
be prescribed in each State by the legislature thereof ;
but the Congress may at any time by law make or
alter such regulations, except as to the places of
choosing senators.

The Congress shall assemble at least once in every
year, and such meeting shall be on the first Monday
in December, unless they shall by law appoint a
different day.

Sect. 5. Each house shall be the judge of the
elections, returns, and qualifications of its own mem-
bers; and a majority of each shall constitute a
quorum to do business; but a smaller nimiber may
adjourn from day to day, and may be authorized to
compel the attendance of absent members, in such
manner, and under such penalties, as each house
may provide.

Each house may determine the rules of its pro-
ceedings, punish its members for disorderly behavior,
and, with the concurrence of two thirds, expel a
member.

3^6 Alexander Hamilton

Each house shall keep a journal of its proceedings,
and from time to time publish the same, excepting
such parts as may in their judgment require secrecy ;
and the yeas and nays of the members of either house
on any question shall, at the desire of one fifth of
those present, be entered on the journal.

Neither house, during the session of Congress,
shall, without the consent of the other, adjourn for
more than three days, nor to any other place than
that in which the two houses shall be sitting.

Sect. 6. The senators and representatives shall
receive a compensation for their services, to be as-
certained by law, and paid out of the treasury of
the United States. They shall, in all cases, except
treason, felony, and breach of the peace, be privi-
leged from arrest during their attendance at the ses-
sion of their respective houses, and in going to and
returning from the same ; and for any speech or de-
bate in either house, they shall not be questioned
in any other place.

No senator or representative shall, during the
time for which he was elected, be appointed to any
civil office under the authority of the United States,
which shall have been created, or the emoluments
whereof shall have been increased, during such time;
and no person holding any office under the United
States, shall be a member of either house during his
continuance in office.

Sect. 7. All bills for raising revenue shall origi-
nate in the House of Representatives; but the Sen-
ate may propose or concur with amendments as on
other bills.

The P'ederalist 367

Every bill which shall have passed the House of
Representatives and the Senate shall, before it be-
come a law, be presented to the President of the
United States; if he approve, he shall sign it; but
if not, he shall return it, with his objections, to that
house in which it shall have originated, who shall
enter the objections at large on their journal, and
proceed to reconsider it. If after such reconsidera-
tion two thirds of that house shall agree to pass the
bill, it shall be sent, together with the objections, to
the other house, by which it shall likewise be recon-
sidered, and if approved by two thirds of that house,
it shall become a law. But in all such cases the votes
of both houses shall be determined by yeas and nays,
and the names of the persons voting for and against
the bill shall be entered on the journal of each house
respectively. If any bill shall not be returned by
the President within ten days (Sundays excepted)
after it shall have been presented to him, the same
shall be a law, in like manner as if he had signed it,
unless the Congress by their adjournment prevent
its return, in which case it shall not be a law.

Every order, resolution, or vote, to which the
concurrence of the Senate and the House of Repre-
sentatives may be necessary (except on a question of
adjournment), shall be presented to the President of
the United States; and before the same shall take
effect, shall be approved by him, or, being disap-
proved by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of
the Senate and House of Representatives, according
to the rules and limitations prescribed in the case of
a bill.

3^8 Alexander Hamilton

Sect. 8. The Congress shall have power —

To lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and ex-
cises ; to pay the debts and provide for the common
defence and general welfare of the United States:
but all duties, imposts, and excises, shall be uniform
throughout the United States;

To borrow money on the credit of the United
States ;

To regulate commerce with foreign nations, and
among the several States, and with the Indian tribes;

To establish a uniform rule of naturalization, and
uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies through-
out the United States;

To coin money, regulate the value thereof, and of
foreign coin, and fix the standard of weights and
measures ;

To provide for the punishment of counterfeiting
the securities and current coin of the United States ;

To establish post-offices and post-roads;

To promote the progress of science and useful arts,
by securing for limited times to authors and inventors
the exclusive right to their respective writings and
discoveries ;

To constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme
Court;

To define and punish piracies and felonies com-
mitted on the high seas, and offences against the law
of nations;

To declare war, grant letters of marque and re-
prisal, and make rules concerning captures on land
and water;

To raise and support armies, but no appropriation

The Federalist 369

of money to that use shall be for a longer term than
two years;

To provide and maintain a navy;

To make rules for the government and regulation
of the land and naval forces;

To provide for calling forth the militia to execute
the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and
repel invasions;

To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining
the militia, and for governing such parts of them as
may be employed in the service of the United States,
reserving to the States respectively, the appointment
of the officers, and the authority of training the
militia according to the discipline prescribed by
Congress ;

To exercise exclusive legislation in all cases what-
soever, over such district (not exceeding ten miles
square) as may, by cession of particular States, and
the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of the
government of the United States, and to exercise
like authority over all places purchased by the con-
sent of the legislature of the State in which the same
shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines, arsen-
als, dock-yards, and other needful buildings; And

To make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the foregoing
powers, and all other powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the government of the United States, or
in any department or officer thereof.

Sect. 9. The migration or importation of such
persons as any of the States now existing shall think
proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the

VOL. XII. — 24

2>7^ Alexander Hamilton

Congress prior to the year one thousand eight hund-
red and eight, but a tax or duty may be imposed on
such importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each
person.

The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not
be suspended, unless when in cases of rebellion or
invasion the public safety may require it.

No bill of attainder or ex-post-facto law shall be
passed.

No capitation, or other direct, tax shall be laid,
unless in proportion to the census or enumeration
herein before directed to be taken.

No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported
from any State. No preference shall be given by
any regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports
of one State over those of another ; nor shall vessels
bound to, or from, one State, be obliged to enter,
clear, or pay duties in another.

No money shall be drawn from the treasury, but
in consequence of appropriations made by law; and
a regular statement and account of the receipts and
expenditures of all public money shall be published
from time to time.

No title of nobility shall be granted by the United
States: And no person holding any office of profit
or trust under them, shall, without the consent of
the Congress, accept of any present, emolument,
office, or title, of any kind whatever, from any king,
prince, or foreign state.

Sect. io. No State shall enter into any treaty,
alliance, or confederation; grant letters of marque
and reprisal ; coin money ; emit bills of credit ; make

The Federalist 371

any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in pay-
ment of debts; pass any bill of attainder, ex-post-
facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts;
or grant any title of nobility.

No State shall, without the consent of the Con-
gress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or ex-
ports, except what may be absolutely necessary for
executing its inspection laws; and the net proceeds
of all duties and imposts, laid by any State on im-
ports or exports, shall be for the use of the treasury
of the United States ; and all such laws shall be sub-
ject to the revision and control of the Congress. No
State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any
duties of tonnage, keep troops, or ships of war, in
time of peace, enter into any agreement or compact
with another state, or with a foreign power, or en-
gage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such im-
minent danger as will not admit of delay.

ARTICLE II

Sect. i. The executive power shall be vested in
a President of the United States of America. He
shall hold his office during the term of four years,
and, together with the Vice-President, chosen for
the same term, be elected as follows:

Each State shall appoint, ip such manner as the
legislature thereof may direct, a nimiber of electors,
equal to the whole number of senators and repre-
sentatives to which the State may be entitled in the
Congress : but no senator or representative, or person
holding an office of trust or profit under the United
States, shall be appointed an elector.

372 Alexander Hamilton

The electors shall meet in their respective States,
and vote by ballot for two persons, of whom one at
least shall not be an inhabitant of the same State
with themselves. And they shall make a list of all
the persons voted for, and of the number of votes
for each ; which list they shall sign and certify, and
transmit sealed to the seat of the government of the
United States, directed to the president of the Senate.
The president of the Senate shall, in the presence of
the Senate and the House of Representatives, open
all the certificates, and the votes shall then be
counted. The person having the greatest number
of votes shall be the President, if such number be a
majority of the whole number of electors appointed;
and if there be more than one who have such
majority, and have an equal number of votes, then
the House of Representatives shall immediately
choose by ballot one of them for President; and if
no person have a majority, then from the five highest
on the list the said House shall in like manner choose
the President. But in choosing the President, the
votes shall be taken by States, the representation
from each State having one vote ; a quorum for this
purpose shall consist of a member or members from
two thirds of the States, and a majority of all the
States shall be necessary to a choice. In every
case, after the choice of the President, the person
having the greatest number of votes of the electors
shall be the Vice-President. But if there should
remain two or more who have equal votes, the
Senate shall choose from them by ballot the Vice-
President.

The Federalist 373

The Congress may determine the time of choosing
the electors, and the day on which they shall give
their votes ; which day shall be the same throughout
the United States.

No person except a natural-bom citizen, or a
citizen of the United States, at the time of the adop-
tion of this Constitution, shall be eligible to the office
of President; neither shall any person be eligible to
that office who shall not have attained to the age of
thirty-five years, and been fourteen years a resident
within the United States.

In case of the removal of the President from office,
or of his death, resignation, or inability to discharge
the powers and duties of the said office, the same
shall devolve on the Vice-President, and the Con-
gress may by law provide for the case of removal,
death, resignation, or inability, both of the President
and Vice-President, declaring what officer shall then
act as President, and such officer shall act accordingly
until the disability be removed, or a President shall
be elected.

The President shall, at stated times, receive for
his services a compensation, which shall neither be
increased nor diminished during the period for which
he shall have been elected, and he shall not receive
within that period any other emolument from the
United States, or any of them.

Before he enter on the execution of his office, he
shall take the following oath or affirmation:

" I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faith-
fully execute the office of President of the United
States, and will, to the best of my ability, preserve.

374 Alexander Hamilton

protect, and defend the Constitution of the United
States."

- Sect. 2. The President shall be commander-in-
chief of the army and navy of the United States;
and of the militia of the several States, when called
into the actual service of the United States ; he may
require the opinion, in writing, of the principal
officer in each of the executive departments, upon
any subject relating to the duties of their respective
offices, and he shall have power to grant reprieves
and pardons for offences against the United States,
except in cases of impeachment.

He shall have power, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, to make treaties, provided
two thirds of the senators present concur; and he
shall nominate, and, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, shall appoint ambassadors,
other public ministers and consuls, judges of the
Supreme Court, and all other officers of the United
States, whose appointments are not herein other-
wise provided for, and which shall be established by
law. But the Congress may by law vest the ap-
pointment of such inferior officers, as they think
proper, in the President alone, in the courts of law,
or in the heads of departments.

The President shall have power to fill up all va-
cancies that may happen during the recess of the
Senate, by granting commissions which shall expire
at the end of their next session.

Sect. 3. He shall from time to time give to the
Congress information of the state of the Union, and
recommend to their consideration such measures as

The Federalist 375

he shall judge necessary and expedient; he may,
on extraordinary occasions, convene both houses, or
either of them, and in case of disagreement between
them, with respect to the time of adjournment, he
may adjourn them to such time as he shall think
proper; he shall receive ambassadors and other
public ministers ; he shall take care that the laws be
faithfully executed, and shall commission all the
officers of the United States.

Sect. 4. The President, Vice-President, and all
civil officers of the United States shall be removed
from office on impeachment for, and conviction
of, treason, bribery, or other high crimes and
misdemeanors.

ARTICLE in

Sect, i . The judicial power of the United States
shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such
inferior courts as the Congress may from time to
time ordain and establish. The judges, both of the
Supreme and inferior courts, shall hold their offices
during good behavior, and shall, at stated times,
receive for their services a compensation, which
shall not be diminished during their continuance in
office.

Sect. 2. The judicial power shall extend to all
cases in law and equity arising under this Constitu-
tion, the laws of the United States, and treaties
made, or which shall be made, under their authority;
to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls; to all cases of admiralty and

37^ Alexander Hamilton

maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the
United States shall be a party ; to controversies be-
tween two or more States; between a State and
citizen of another State ; between citizens of different
States; between citizens of the same State claiming
lands under grants of different States; and between
a State, or the citizens thereof, and foreign states,
citizens, or subjects.

In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls, and those in which a State
shall be party, the Supreme Court shall have original
jurisdiction. In all the other cases before men-
tioned, the Supreme Court shall have appellate
jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such ex-
ceptions, and under such regulations, as the Congress
shall make.

The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeach-
ment, shall be by jury; and such trial shall be held
in the State where the said crimes shall have been
committed; but when not committed within any
State, the trial shall be at such place or places as the
Congress may by law have directed.

Sect. 3. Treason against the United States shall
consist only in levying war against them, or in ad-
hering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort.
No person shall be convicted of treason unless on the
testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or
on confession in open court.

The Congress shall have power to declare the pun-
ishment of treason, but no attainder of treason shall
work corruption of blood, or forfeiture, except during
the life of the person attainted.

The Federalist m

ARTICLE IV

Sect. i. Full faith and credit shall be given in
each State to the public acts, records, and judicial
proceedings of every other State And the Congress
may by general laws prescribe the manner in which
such acts, records, and proceedings shall be proved,
and the effect thereof.

Sect. 2. The citizens of each State shall be en-
titled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in
the several States.

A person charged in any State with treason, felony,
or other crime, who shall flee from justice, and be found
in another State, shall, on demand of the executive
authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered
up, to be removed to the State having jurisdiction
of the crime.

No person held to service or labor in one State,
under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall,
in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be
discharged from such service or labor, but shall be
delivered up on claim of the party to whom such
service or labor may be due.

Sect. 3. New States may be admitted by the
Congress into this Union ; but no new State shall be
formed or erected within the jurisdiction of any
other State, nor any State be formed by the junction
of two or more States, or parts of States, without the
consent of the legislatures of the States concerned,
as well as of the Congress.

The Congress shall have power to dispose of and
make all needful rules and regulations respecting the

37^ Alexander Hamilton

territory or other property belonging to the United
States ; and nothing in this Constitution shall be so
construed as to prejudice any claims of the United
States, or of any particular State.

Sect. 4. The United States shall guarantee to
every State in this Union a republican form of
government, and shall protect each of them against
invasion, and on application of the legislature, or
of the Executive (when the legislature cannot be
convened), against domestic violence.

ARTICLE V

The Congress, whenever two thirds of both houses
shall deem it necessary, shall propose amendments
to this Constitution, or, on the application of the
legislatures of two thirds of the several States, shall
call a convention for proposing amendments, which,
in either case, shall be valid to all intents and pur-
poses, as part of this Constitution, when ratified by
the legislatures of three fourths of the several States,
or by conventions in three fourths thereof, as the
one or the other mode of ratification may be pro-
posed by the Congress : Provided, that no amendment
which may be made prior to the year one thousand
eight hundred and eight, shall in any manner affect
the first and fourth clauses in the ninth section of the
first article; and that no State, without its consent,
shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate.

ARTICLE VI

All debts contracted and engagements entered
into, before the adoption of this Constitution, shall

The Federalist 379

be as valid against the United States under this
Constitution, as under the Confederation.

This Constitution, and the laws of the United
States which shall be made in pursuance thereof;
and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under
the authority of the United States, shall be the
supreme law of the land; and the judges in every
State shall be bound thereby, any thing in the
Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary
notwithstanding.

The senators and representatives before men-
tioned, and the members of the several State legis-
latures, and all executive and judicial officers, both
of the United States and of the several States, shall
be bound by oath or affirmation to support this Con-
stitution ; but no religious test shall ever be required
as a qualification to any office or public trust under
the United States.

ARTICLE VII

The ratification of the conventions of nine States
shall be sufficient for the establishment of this
Constitution between the States so ratifying the
same.

DONE in convention, by the unanimous consent of
the States present, the seventeenth day of Sep-
tember, in the year of our Lord one thousand
seven hundred and eighty-seven, and of the in-
dependence of the United States of America the

38o

Alexander Hamilton

twelfth. In witness whereof, we have hereunto
subscribed our names.

NEW-HAMPSHIRE

MASSACHUSETTS

CONNECTICUT .
NEW YORK . .

NEW JERSEY .

GEORGE WASHINGTON, President, and Deputy

from Virginia.

{ John Langdon,

\ Nicholas Oilman.

j Nathaniel Gorham,

I RuFus King.

j William Samuel Johnson

I Roger Sherman.

^ Alexander Hamilton.

f William Livingston,
J David Brearley,
William Paterson,
Jonathan Dayton.

Benjamin Franklin,
Thomas Mifflin,
Robert Morris,
George Clymer,
Thomas Fitzsimons,
Jared Ingersoll,
James Wilson,
gouverneur morris.
^George Read,
Gunning Bedford, Junior.

IJoHN Dickinson,
Richard Bassett,
Jacob Broom.
f James M'Henry,
J Daniel Jenifer, of St.

* I Thomas,
[ Daniel Carroll.

j John Blair,

* I James Madison, Junior.

PENNSYLVANIA. .^

DELAWARE

MARYLAND

VIRGINIA

The Federalist
[ William Blount,
NORTH CAROLINA < Richard Dobbs Spaight,

( Hugh Williamson,
^john rutledge,
Charles Cotesworth
■< Pinckney,

Charles Pinckney,
Pierce Butler.

i William Few,
* / Abraham Baldwin.

SOUTH CAROLINA

GEORGIA

Attest.

WILLIAM JACKSON, Secretary.

in convention

Monday, September 17, 1787.

Present, The States of New Hampshire, Massachu-
setts, Connecticut, Mr. Hamilton from New-York,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and
Georgia.
Resolved, That the preceding Constitution be laid
before the United States in Congress assembled, and
that it is the opinion of this conveniton, that it
should afterwards be submitted to a convention of
delegates, chosen in each State by the people thereof,
under the recommendation of its legislature, for their
assent and ratification; and that each convention
assenting to, and ratifying the same should give
notice thereof to the United States in Congress
assembled.

Resolved, That it is the opinion of this convention,
that as soon as the conventions of nine States shall

382 Alexander Hamilton

have ratified this Constitution, the United States in
Congress assembled should fix a day on which
electors should be appointed by the States which
shall have ratified the same, and a day on which the
electors should assemble to vote for the President,
and the time and place for commencing proceedings
under this Constitution ; that after such publication
the electors should be appointed, and the senators
and representatives elected ; that the electors should
meet on the day fiixed for the election of the Presi-
dent, and should transmit their votes certified, signed,
sealed, and directed, as the Constitution requires, to
the secretary of the United States in Congress as-
sembled; that the senators and representatives
should convene at the time and place assigned ; that
the senators should appoint a president of the
Senate, for the sole purpose of receiving, opening
and counting the votes for President ; and that after
he shall be chosen, the Congress, together with the
President, should without delay proceed to execute
this Constitution.

By the unanimous order of the convention.

GEORGE WASHINGTON, President
William Jackson, Secretary,

IN convention

September 17, 1787.

Sir: We have now the honor to submit to the
consideration of the United States in Congress assem-
bled, that Constitution which has appeared to us the

The Federalist 3^3

most advisable. The friends of our country have
long seen and desired, that the power of making war,
peace, and treaties, of levying money and regulating
commerce, and the correspondent executive and
judicial authorities, should be fully and effectually
vested in the general government of the Union ; but
the impropriety of delegating such extensive trusts
to one body of men is evident. Hence results the
necessity of a different organization. It is ob-
viously impracticable, in the federal government of
the States, to secure all rights of independent sov-
ereignty to each, and yet provide for the interest
and safety of all. Individuals entering into society
must give up a share of liberty to preserve the rest.
The magnitude of the sacrifice must depend as well
on situation and circumstances as on the object to
be obtained. It is at all times difficult to draw with
precision the line between those rights which must be
surrendered, and those which may be reserved; and
on the present occasion this difficulty was increased
by a difference among the several States as to their
situation, extent, habits, and particular interests.

In all our deliberations on this subject we kept
steadily in our view, that which appears to us the
greatest interest of every true American, the con-
solidation of our Union, in which is involved our
prosperity, felicity, safety, perhaps our national
existence. This important consideration, seriously
and deeply impressed on our minds, led each State
in the convention to be less rigid on points of inferior
magnitude than might have been otherwise ex-
pected; and thus the Constitution, which we now

384 Alexander Hamilton

present, is the result of a spirit of amity, and
of that mutual deference and concession which
the pecuharity of our poHtical situation rendered
indispensable.

That it will meet the full and entire approbation
of every State is not perhaps to be expected; but
each will doubtless consider, that had her interest
alone been consulted, the consequences might have
been particularly disagreeable or injurious to others ;
that it is liable to as few exceptions as could reason-
ably have been expected, we hope and believe; that
it may promote the lasting welfare of that country
so dear to us all, and secure her freedom and happi-
ness, is our most ardent wish. With great respect,
we have the honor to be, sir, your Excellency's most
obedient and humble servants:

By unanimous order of the convention.

Geo. Washington, President.
His Excellency the President of Congress.

AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION

The first ten amendments were proposed in Con-
gress during its first session, and on the 15th of
December, 1791, were ratified. The eleventh amend-
ment was proposed during the first session of the
third Congress, and was announced by the President
of the United States in a message to it, of date Janu-
ary 8th, 1798, as having been ratified. The twelfth
amendment originated with Hamilton,* and was

^ Hist. Rep., VII., s66.

The Federalist 385

proposed during the first session of the eighth Con-
gress, and was adopted in 1804,

ARTICLE THE FIRST

Congress shall make no law respecting the estab-
lishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise
thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of
the press; or the right of the people peaceably to
assem.ble, and to petition the government for a re-
dress of grievances.

ARTICLE THE SECOND

A well regulated militia being necessary to the
security of a free State, the right of the people to
keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.

ARTICLE THE THIRD

No soldier shall, in time of peace, be quartered in
any house without the consent of the owner; nor in
time of war, but in the manner prescribed by law.

ARTICLE THE FOURTH

The right of the people to be secure in their per-
sons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreason-
able searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and
no warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause,
supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly
describing the place to be searched, and the persons
or things to be seized.

VOL. XII. — 25.

386 Alexander Hamilton

ARTICLE THE FIFTH

No person shall be held to answer for a capital or
otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment
or indictment of a grand jury, except in cases aris-
ing in the land or naval forces, or in the militia when
in actual service in time of war or public danger;
nor shall any person be subject for the same offence
to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor
shall be compelled in any criminal case to be witness
against himself; nor be deprived of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law; nor shall pri-
vate property be taken for public use without just
compensation.

ARTICLE THE SIXTH

In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy
the right of a speedy and public trial, by an impartial
jury of the State and district wherein the crime
shall have been committed, which district shall have
been previously ascertained by law, and to be in-
formed of the nature and cause of the accusation;
to be confronted with the witnesses against him ; to
have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in
his favor, and to have the assistance of counsel for.
his defence.

ARTICLE THE SEVENTH

In suits at common law, where the value in con-
troversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of
trial by jury shall be preserved ; and no fact tried by

The Federalist 387

a jury, shall be otherwise reexamined in any court of
the United States than according to the rules of the
common law.

ARTICLE THE EIGHTH

Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive
fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments
inflicted.

ARTICLE THE NINTH

The enumeration in the Constitution of certain
rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage
others retained by the people.

ARTICLE THE TENTH

The powers not delegated to the United States by
the Constitution or prohibited by it to the States,
are reserved to the States respectively, or to the
people.

ARTICLE THE ELEVENTH

The judicial power of the United States shall not
be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity,
commenced or prosecuted against one of the United
States by citizens of another State, or by citizens or
subjects of any foreign State.

ARTICLE THE TWELFTH

The electors shall meet in their respective States,
and vote by ballot for President and Vice-President,

388 Alexander Hamilton

one of whom, at least, shall not be an inhabitant of
the same State with themselves ; they shall name in
their ballots the person voted for as President, and
in distinct ballots the person voted for as Vice-
President; and they shall make distinct lists of all
persons voted for as President, and of all persons
voted for as Vice-President, and of the number of
votes for each, which lists they shall sign and certify,
and transmit sealed to the seat of government of the
United States, directed to the president of the Sen-
ate; the president of the Senate shall, in the presence
of the Senate and the House of Representatives, open
all the certificates, and the votes shall then be
counted; the person having the greatest number of
votes for President, shall be the President, if such
number be a majority of the whole number of electors
appointed ; and if no person have such majority, then
from the persons having the highest numbers, not
exceeding three, on the list of those voted for as
President, the House of Representatives shall choose
immediately, by ballot, the President. But in
choosing the President, the votes shall be taken by
States, the representation from each State having
one vote ; a quorum for this purpose shall consist of
a member or members from two thirds of the States,
and a majority of all the States shall be necessary to
a choice. And if the House of Representatives shall
not choose a President whenever the right of choice
shall devolve upon them, before the fourth day of
March next following, then the Vice-President shall
act as President as in the case of the death or
constitutional disability of the President.

I

The Federalist 3^9

The person having the greatest number of votes
as Vice-President, shall be the Vice-President, if
such number be a majority of the whole number of
electors appointed ; and if no person have a majority,
then from the two highest numbers on the list, the
Senate shall choose the Vice-President; a quorum
for the purpose shall consist of two thirds of the
whole number of senators, and a majority of the
whole number shall be necessary to a choice.

But no person constitutionally ineligible to the
office of President shall be eligible to that of Vice-
President of the United States.

The following amendment was ratified by Ala-
bama, December 2, 1865, which filled the requisite
complement of ratifying States, and was certified
by the Secretary of State to have become valid as a
part of the Constitution of the United States, De-
cember 18, 1865.

ARTICLE THE THIRTEENTH

Sect. i. Neither slavery nor involuntary servi-
tude, except as a punishment for crime, whereof the
party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist
within the United States, or any place subject to
their jurisdiction.

Sect. 2. Congress shall have power to enforce
this article by appropriate legislation.

The following amendment was certified by the
Secretary of State to have become valid as a part of
the Constitution of the United States, July 28, 1868.

390 Alexander Hamilton

ARTICLE THE FOURTEENTH

Sect. i. All persons born or naturalized in the
United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof,
are citizens of the United States and of the States
wherein they reside. No State shall make or en-
force any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States; nor
shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or
property without due process of law; nor deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protec-
tion of the laws.

Sect. 2. Representatives shall be apportioned
among the several States according to their respective
numbers, counting the whole number of persons in
each State, excluding Indians not taxed. But when
the right to vote at any election for the choice of
electors for President and Vice-President of the
United States, representatives in Congress, the ex-
ecutive and judicial officers of a State, or the mem-
bers of the legislature thereof, is denied to any of the
male inhabitants of such State, being twenty-one
years of age, and citizens of the United States, or in
any way abridged, except for participation in re-
bellion or other crime, the basis of representation
therein shall be reduced in the proportion which the
number of such male citizens shall bear to the whole
number of male citizens twenty- one years of age in
such State.

Sect. 3. No person shall be a senator or repre-
sentative in Congress, or elector of President and
Vice-President, or hold any office, civil or military,

The Federalist 391

under the United States, or under any State, who,
having previously taken an oath as a member of
Congress, or as an officer of the United States, or as
a member of any State legislature, or as an executive
or judicial officer of any State, to support the Con-
stitution of the United States, shall have engaged in
insurrection or rebellion against the same, or given
aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. But Con-
gress may, by a vote of two thirds of each house, re-
move such disability.

Sect. 4. The validity of the public debt of the
United States, authorized by law, including debts
incurred for payment of pensions and bounties for
services in suppressing insurrection or rebellion,
shall not be questioned. But neither the United
States nor any State shall assume or pay any debt
or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or re-
bellion against the United States, or any claim for
the loss or emancipation of any slave; but all such
debts, obligations, and claims shall be held illegal
and void.

Sect. 5. The Congress shall have power to en-
force, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of
this article.

The following amendment was proposed to the
legislatures of the several States by the fortieth
Congress, on the 27th of February, 1869, and was
declared, in a proclamation of the Secretary of State,
dated March 30, 1870, to have been ratified by
the legislatures of twenty-nine of the thirty-seven
States.

392 Alexander Hamilton

ARTICLE THE FIFTEENTH

Sect. i. The right of citizens of the United States
to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United
States, or by any State, on account of race, color, or
previous condition of servitude.

Sect. 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this
article by appropriate legislationo

INDEX TO THE FEDERALIST'

Achaean League, xi., 121, 139,
296, 381

Achaeans : They abandoned the ex-
periment of plural praetors, xii.,
Agriculture: Its interests inter-
woven with those of commerce,
xi., 89

Amendments : Obligation under
the Constitution, concerning
them, xi., 364

American System: Idea of one,
xi., 88 ^

Amphictyonic Council, xi., 135,
Annapolis, extract from the re-
commendation of the meeting
at, in September, 1786, xi., 318

Anne, Queen: Extracts from her
letter to the Scotch Parliament,
xi., 28

Appeals to the People: dangers
and inconveniences attending
them, xii., 32; objections to
their being periodically made,

33, 34

Articles of Confederation : (appen-
dix), xii., 349-361

Aspasia, xi., 35

Assemblies, objections to numer-
ous, xii., 73, 76, 80 (see House
of Representatives). After a
number of Representatives suffi-
cient for the purposes of safety,
of local information,and of diffu-
sive sympathy with the whole
society, is secured, any addition
to them is injurious, xii., 102

Athens, Archons of, xii., 140

Attainder, Bills of: Provision of
the Constitution concerning
them, xi., 370

Bankruptcy (see Constitution) :

Provision of the Constitution

concerning it, xi., 353
Bills of Credit: Provision of the

Constitution concerning them,

xi., 368
Bills of Rights: In their origin,

stipulations between kings and

subjects, xii., 321

Cambray, League of, xi., 39
Carthage, Senate of, xii., 138
Cato : An opponent of the Consti-
tution, cited, xii., 172
Coalition: The word used in a

good sense, xii., 97
Commerce (see Confederation,
Union) : Examination of the
opinion that its tendency is
pacific, xi., 38; a source of con-
tention between the separate
States, and would be among
separate Confederacies of them,
46; policy of prohibitory regu-
lations in regard to it, on the
part of the United States, 80;
intimacy between its interests
.and those of agriculture, 89;
power under the Constitution
of regulating it, 349
Confederacies: Inexpediency of
dividing the Union into three
or four separate confederacies,
xi., 26, 34, 42, 51; probable
number of separate confeder-

* This index is the one made for the edition published in Washington in 1831 by
Philip R. Fendall, Esq. It has also been used by Mr. J. C. Hamilton in his edition
, and is there attributed to P. H. Kendall.
394

Index to the Federalist

Confederacies (Continued)

acies, in the event of disunion,
97 ; tendency of confederacies
rather to anarchy among the
members than to tyranny in
the head, 128, 156

Confederacy of the States: Al-
leged characteristic distinction
between it and consolidation,
xi., 65

Confederate Republic : Defined,
xi., 66; tendency of the federal
principle to moderation in gov-
ernment, 140 (see Montesquieu,
Constitution, Republic)

Confederation, The: Its insuffi-
ciency to the preservation of
the Union, xi., no; picture of
the public distress under it,
in; its great and radical vice,
legislation for communities in-
stead of persons, 113 (seep. 182) ;
difference between a league and
a government, 114; want of a
sanction to its laws, 159; State
contributions by quotas, a fun-
damental error in it, 162; want
of a power to regulate com-
merce, another defect in it,
166; the nugatory power of
raising armies, another, 169;
the right of equal suffrage
among the States, another, 170;
anti-republican character of
the requisition, in certain cases,
of a vote exceeding a majority,
171 ; want of a judiciary power,
a crowning defect of the Con-
federation, 176; the organiza-
tion of Congress, another; peril-
ous tendency of a single legisla-
tive house, 178; want of popu-
lar consent to it, another defect
in it, 179; it acknowledges the
necessity of strength in the fed-
eral power, 180; impracticable
character of certain provisions
under it, 305 ; necessary usurpa-
tions of Congress under it, 305;
answer to the question, on what
principle is it to be superseded,
without the unanimous consent
of the parties to it, 365 ; articles
of (appendix), xii., 349-361

Congress (see Constitution, States,
Public Debt) : Extracts from

the recommendatory act of
Congress, in February, 1787,
xi., 318; power of, under the
federal Constitution, over a dis-
trict of territory not exceeding
ten miles square, 354; its power
concerning territory, etc., be-
longing to the United States,

358 . ^ . . . ,

Connecticut: Provision m her

Constitution concerning elec-
tions, xii., 58; one branch of
her legislature so constituted
that each member of it is elected
by the whole State, 95 ; has no
constitutional provision for
jury trial, in either criminal or
civil cases, 310

Consolidation: The plan of the
Union aims only at a partial
consolidation, xi., 246; desire
of the States to guard against
improper consolidation of them-
selves into one simple republic,
xii., 127

Constitution of the United States
(see Union, Confederation,
Standing Armies, States,
House of Representatives,
Slaves) : Its economy, xi.,
97; answer to an objection
drawn from the extent of the
country, 10 1; its guaranty to
the States of a republican form
of government, 253-358; neces-
sity for strength in the federal
government, 179; wisdom of
the provision in the Constitu-
tion concerning the military
force, 183, 187, 199, 205, 259,
331; answer to the objection,
that it cannot operate without
the aid of a military force to
execute its laws, 211, 223; rea-
son why the execution of it will
probably be popular, 216; laws
under it, as to the enumerated
and legitimate objects of its
jurisdiction, will be the su-
preme law of the land, 2 1 7-254 ;
number and inconsistency of
the objections to it, 300; most
of the capital objections to it
lie with tenfold weight against
the Confederation, 304; its con-
formity to republican prin-

Index to the Federalist

;95

Constitution of the United States
{Continued)
ciples, 308; analogy between
the mode of appointments un-
der it, and under the State gov-
ernments, 310; neither a na-
tional nor a federal constitution
but a composition of both, 313,
317; general view of the powers
which it proposes to vest in the
Union, 330; the power of de-
claring war, 331; the power of
providing a navy, 337; the
power of making treaties, etc.,
343 ; the power of defining and
punishing offences on the high
seas, 345 ; prohibition of the
importation of slaves after
1808, 346; power of regulating
commerce, 347 ; powers to coin
money, to piuiish counterfeit-
ers, and to regulate weights and
meastu-es, 350; power to estab-
lish a uniform mode of natural-
ization, 351 ; power to establish
uniform laws of bankruptcy,
353; power concerning public
acts, records, etc., 353; power
of establishing post-roads, 353;
power of granting copyrights,
354 ; power to exercise exclusive
legislation over a district not
exceeding ten miles square, if
ceded to the United States, 354 ;
power concerning treason, 356;
power of admitting new States,
357; power concerning terri-
tory, etc., belonging to the
United States, 357; obligation
to guarantee a republican form
of government to every State of
the Union, 358; obligation con-
cerning public debts prior to
the adoption of the Constitu-
tion, 363; provision concerning
amendments, 364; provision
concerning the ratification by
nine States, 365 ; question, what
relation is to exist between the
nine or more ratifying States,
and the non-ratifying States?
365; disabilities of the States
created by the Constitution,
367 ; power given by it to Con-
gress, to make all laws neces-
sary and proper for executing

its enumerated powers, 372;
four other possible alternatives,
which the Constitution might
have adopted, 372; provision
that the Constitution, laws, and
treaties of the United States
shall be the supreme law of the
land, 375; oath, etc., of ofiicers,
etc., to support the Constitu-
tion, 377 ; consists much less in
the addition of new powers to
the Union, than in the invigora-
tion of its original powers, 385;
its provisions concerning the
proper degree of separation be-
tween the legislative, execu-
tive, and judiciary powers, xii.,
13; peculiar divisions under it,
of the power surrendered by
the people, 24, 32, 43; its mode
of protecting the minority from
usurpations by the majority,
46; three characteristics of the
federal legislature, 56; answer
to the objection that it contains
no bill of rights, 321 e/ seq.; in
the sense, and to the extent
contended for, bills of rights are
unnecessary and would be dan-
gerous to the Constitution, 325 ;
omission of a provision concern-
ing the liberty of the press de-
fended, 326; the Constitution
itself is a bill of rights, 327 ; an-
swer to an objection to the Con-
stitution, founded on the re-
moteness of the seat of govern-
ment from many of the States,
329, 330; answer to the objec-
tion that it wants a provision
concerning debts due to the
United States, 331; answer to
the objection as to expense,
331; Federal Constitution as
agreed upon by the Convention
(appendix), 362-380; signers,
380; amendments, 384-392
Construction, two rules of, xi., 320
Contracts: Laws in violation of
private contracts a source of
collision between the separate
States or Confederacies, xi., 50;
provision of the Constitution
concerning them, 370
Convention at Philadelphia in
1787, xi., 12 ^/ seq.; the difficul-

39^

Index to the Federalist

Convention at Philadelphia in
1787 {Continued)
ties it must have experienced in
the formation of a proper plan,
287 et seq.; one difficulty, that
of combining the requisite de-
gree of stability and energy in
government with the inviolable
attention due to liberty and
the republican form, 288; an-
other, making the partition be-
tween the authority of the gen-
eral government and that of
the State governments, 289;
its authority to propose a mixed
Constitution, 318; its duties
under existing circumstances,
325; its plan only recommenda-
tory, 327; one particular in
which it has departed from the
tenor of its commission, 324;
members of (appendix), xii.,
Conventions for correcting

breaches of a Constitution, xii.,
39; dangers and inconveniences
of frequent appeals to the
people. 33

Copyrights: Power of the Consti-
tution concerning them, xi., 354

Crete, Cosmi of, xii., 141

Delaware {see States) : Provi-
sion in her constitution con-
cerning the separation of the
legislative, executive, and ju-
diciary powers, xii., 21; number
of representatives in the more
numerous branch of her legisla-
ture, 74

Democracy: A pure one defined,
xi., 74; its disadvantages, 74

Departments of Power (see
States, under their several
titles) : Meaning of the maxim
which requires a separation of
them, xi., 370; xii., 23; princi-
ples of the British Constitution
on this subject, xii., 14, 15 ; pro-
visions of the State constitutions
concerning it, 16, 23 ; the parti-
tion among them to be main-
tained, not by exterior provi-
sions, but by the interior struct-
ure of the government, 43

District: Exclusive legislation of

Congress over one not exceed-
ing ten miles square, xi., 354

Economy: "The money saved
from one object may be usefully
applied to another," xi., 97

Elections: Frequency of them in
the choice of the-Senate would
be inconsistent with a due re-
sponsibility in the government
to the people, xii., 135

England (see Great Britain)

Europe : Her arrogant pretensions
xi., 88

Faction: Defined, xi., 67; its la-
tent cause inherent in human
nature, 69 ; the various and un-
equal distribution of property
the most common and durable
source of it, 70

Federal Farmer: An opponent of
the Constitution, xii., 176

Federal Constitution (appendix),
xii., 362-380

Feudal System: Account of it, xi.,

.i32,.38i
Fisheries, the, xi., 84
Fox, Charles James: his India
bill, xii., 211

Geometry; Why its principles are
received without difficulty, xi.,
239; incomprehensibility of one
of them, 240

Georgia: Provision in her consti-
tution, concerning the separa-
tion of the legislative, execu-
tive, and judiciary powers, xii.,
23; number of representatives
in the more numerous branch of
her legislatiire, 74

Germanic Empire: Its origin, con-
stitution, and disadvantages,
xi., 144

Gold and Silver: Principle on
which the States are inhibited
to make any thing else a tender
in payment of debts, xi., 367

Government (see Minorities) : A
government, the constitution
of which renders it unfit to be
entrusted with all the powers
which a free people ought to
delegate to any government,
would be an unsafe and im-

Index to the Federalist
Government {Continued)

proper depositary of the na-
tional interests, xi., 185; the
danger of fettering it with re-
strictions which cannot be ob-
served, 202 ; examples among
the States of impracticable re-
strictions, 202; remarkable
featiire of every government
reported by ancient history
which was established by de-
liberation and consent, 295 ; the
reason of it, 297; ought to con-
trol the passions, and to be con-
trolled by the reason of the pub-
lic, xii., 26, 34, 44; the greatest
of all reflections on human na-
ture, 44 ; wise kings will always
be served by able ministers,
147; the true test of a good
government is its aptitude and
tendency to produce a good ad-
ministration, 181; definition of
a limited constitution, 257; the
general genius of a government
is all that can be substantially
relied on for permanent effects,
Great Britain {see Standing Ar-
mies) : Her government, xi.,
309; the House of Commons,
xii., 52, 85, 93; the House of
Lords, 156; why the king's
power of an absolute negative
on bills has been long disused,
184; Constitution of Great
Britain, concerning a separa-
tion of the departments of
power, 15

Grotius: Cited, xi., 155; xii., 331

High Seas: The power under the
Constitution of defining and
ptmishing offences on them, xi.,
Holland: Not a republic, xi., 309
House of Representatives {see
Constitution, Treaties) : Quali-
fications of the electors and
the elected, xii., 50; term of
a member's service, 52, 57, 64;
biennial elections defended, 60,
65 ; argument in their favor de-
rived from the time they afford
a representative for acquiring
the requisite information, 60,

63, 73; the ratio of representa-
tion, 66, 72; its proposed num-
ber of members defended, 73,
86; provision of the Constitu-
tion concerning the ineligibility
of its members under certain
circumstances, to civil offices,
79; imputed tendency of the
plan for the House of Repre-
sentatives, to elevate the few
above the many, 88; provision
for the future augmentation of
its members considered, 95;
economy consulted by the pro-
vision for its temporary num-
ber, 10 1 ; dangers of a multi-
tudinous representative assem-
bly, 99 ; maxim as to the proper
number of representatives, 102 ;
why more than a majority
ought not to be required for a
quorum, 102; provision for
regulating elections to it, 103;
less likely than local legislatures
to be partial to particular in-
terests, 112; advantage of uni-
formity in the time of elections,
123; why it ought to have no
power in the formation of
treaties, 236; why it ought to
have no power in the appoint-
ment of federal officers, 252

Human Nature: Its fair side, xii.,
80; a power over a man's sup-
port is a power over his will,
219, 266

Hume, David: Citation from his
essays, xii., 345

Impeachments {see Senate, Ju-
diciary, States, under their
several titles)

Indians: Difficulties concerning
them when residing within a
State, xi., 347

Innovation: Its dangers exagger-
ated, some of its beneficial re-
sults, xi., 107

Ireland, Elections m, xii., 54

Jefferson, Thomas: Cited to show
the evils in the constitution of
Virginia, arising from the want
of a barrier between the legisla-
tive, executive, and judiciary
powers, xii., 28; his draft of a
Index to the Federalist

Jefferson, Thomas (Continued)
Constitution cited, 31; his idea
of a convention for correcting
breaches of it, 32; defects of
this plan, 33-37

Jenkinson, Charles: His remarks
introductory to his bill for
regulating the commerce be-
tween Great Britain and the
United States, xi., 167

Judiciary (see Jury Trial) :
Want of, xi., 176; objections to
constituting the Supreme Court
a tribimal, either singly or
jointly with the Senate, for try-
ing impeachments, xii., 157 et
seq.; mode of appointing the
judges, their tenure of office
during good behavior, 254-270;
the weakest of the three depart-
ments of power, 256; vindica-
tion of its power to pronounce
legislative acts void, because
contrary to the Constitution,
257; the independence of the
judges essential, and why, 261;
peculiar advantages of the pro-
vision in the Constitution for
their support, 267; precautions
for their responsibility, 268;
omission of a provision for re-
moving them on account of
inability, defended, 268; six
classes of cases, to which the
judicial power of the federal
government ought to extend,
270 et seq.; these classes of cases
compared with the particular
powers given by the Constitu-
tion to the judiciary;, 275; dis-
tribution of authority in the
judicial department, 279; state-
ment of objections to the Su-
preme Coiu"t having undivided
power of final jurisdiction, 279;
these objections answered, 280;
the power in Congress of con-
stituting inferior courts consid-
ered, 284; why the objects of
these courts would not be ac-
complished by the instrumen-
tality of the State courts, 285;
the original jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court confined to two
classes of causes, 286, 289;
whether the Supreme Court

ought to have appellate juris-
diction as to matters of fact,
289, 293 ; such jurisdiction does
not abolish trial by jury, 293;
summary view of the authority
of the Supreme Coiu*t, 293 ;
whether the State courts are to
have concurrent jurisdiction in
regard to causes submitted to
the federal jurisdiction, 294;
in instances of concurrent juris-
diction between the national
and State courts an appeal
would lie from the State courts
to the Supreme Court of the
United States, 296; whether an
appeal would lie from the State
courts to subordinate federal
judicatories, 298

Jurisdiction: Literal meaning of
the word noticed, xii., 291, note

Jury Trial: Answer to the objec-
tion that the Constitution con-
tains no provision for the trial
by jury in civil cases, xii., 299
et seq.; in no case abolished by
the Constitution, 301, 304; ex-
amination of the remark that
trial by jury is a safeguard
against an oppressive exercise
of the power of taxation, 305;
the strongest argument in its
favor, in civil cases, is, that it is
a security against corruption,
306; difference between the
limits of the jury trial in the
different States of the Union,
308; ineligible in many cases,
312; proposition concerning it
made by the minority of Penn-
sylvania, 311 ; proposition from
Massachusetts, 315

Legislation: Evils of a mutable,
xii., 130 et seq.

Legislature : Danger of its usurpa-
tions in a representative repub-
lic, xii., 24, 30, 35

Louis XIV., anecdote of, xi., 21

Lycian Confederacy, xi., 67, 121,
Lycurgus, xi., 296

Mably, Abbe de., on a confederate
republic, xi., 42; on Achaean
League, 140; on United Neth-
erlands, 156

Index to the Federalist
Maintenon, Madame de, xi., 36 ^

Marlborough, John, Diike of, xi.,
40; Sarah, Duchess of, 36

Maryland, xi., 171; provision in
her constitution concerning the
separation of the legislative,
executive, and judiciary power,
xii., 21 ; concerning her Senate,
Massachusetts: Insurrections and
rebellions in Massachusetts, xi.,
42, 161; provision in her con-
stitution, concerning the sep-
aration of the legislative, exec-
utive, and judiciary powers,
xii., 18; number of representa-
tives in the more numerous
branch of her legislature, 74;
size of her senatorial districts
compared with that of the dis-
tricts proposed by the conven-
tion, 94; provision concerning
impeachments, 163, note; pro-
position from, in regard to jury
trial, 314

Maxims : Certain maxims in geom-
etry, ethics, and politics, carry-
ing internal evidence, xi., 239

Military Force {see Constitution,
Standing Armies)

Militia: Its disadvantages and
merits, xi., 199; power of regu-
lating it, 223

Minorities : Two modes of protect-
ing them from usurpations by
majorities, xii., 46 et seq.; to
give a minority a negative upon
a majority which is always the
case where more than a major-
ity is requisite to a decision, is,
in its tendency, to subject the
sense of the greater number to
that of the lesser, xi., 172

Minos, xi., 296

Mississippi, Navigation of the, xi.,
24, 84

Money: Power, under the Consti-
tution, of coining it, xi., 350,
Montesquieu: Refutation of the
erroneous opinion that he con-
sidered the republican polity
unsuited to a large extent of
country, and his praise of a
confederate republic, xi., 62, 63,
67, 358, 363; true extent of his

doctrine, requiring a separation
of the legislative, executive,
and judiciary powers, xii., 14,
1 7 ; his remarks concerning the
judiciary, 256, note

Naturalization: Provision of the
Constitution concerning it, xi.,

^351 .

Navigation of the lakes, xi., 84

Navy : Practicability of creating a
federal navy, xi., 85 ; its advan-
tages, 80; the Southern States
the nursery of wood, and the
Northern of men, for ships, 85;
importance of establishing a
navy as early as possible, 194;
power in the federal Constitu-
tion of erecting one, 337

Negative on bills {see Great
Britain, President)

Netherlands: Their government,
xi., 152; an evil attending the
constitution of the States-Gen-
eral, xii., 237

New Hampshire : Provision in her
constitution, concerning the
separation of the legislative,
executive, and judiciary pow-
ers, xii., 18 ; the size of her sena-
torial districts, compared with
the size of the districts proposed
by the convention, 94; provi-
sion concerning impeachment,
163, note

New Jersey : Provision in her con-
stitution, concerning the separ-
ation of the legislative, execu-
tive, and judiciary powers, xii,,
20; concerning impeachments,
1 63 ; her provisions concerning
the unity of the Executive and
a council of appointment, 195

New York: Her controversy with
the district of Vermont, xi., 45;
-alleged excellence of her consti-
tution, 189, 206 ; provision in her
constitution, concerning the sep-
aration of the legislative, execu-
tive, and judiciary powers, xii.,
20; number of representatives
in the more numerous branch
of her legislature, 74; size of her
senatorial districts compared
with that of the districts pro-
posed by the convention, 94;
Index to the Federalist

New York {Continued)

her constitution makes no pro-
vision concerning the locality of
elections, 120; provision con-
cerning impeachments, 163;
provision concerning the unity
of her Executive, 195, and note;
where, by her constitution, the
qualified power of negativing
bills is vested, 227; provision of
her constitution, prohibiting
any person more than sixty
years old from being a judge,
North Carolina: Revolt of a part
of, xi., 42 ; provision in her con-
stitution, concerning a separa-
tion of the legislative, execu-
tive, and judiciary powers, xii.,
Numa, xi., 296

Pennsylvania: Disturbances in,
xi., 45; constitution on stand-
ing army, 189; concerning the
separation of the legislative,
executive, and judiciary pow-
ers, xii., 20, 29; number of rep-
resentatives in the more num-
erous branch of her legislature,
74; provision concerning im-
peachments, 163, note; proposi-
tion from the minority of, con-
cerning jiu-y trial, 311

Pericles: Examples of the injury
resulting to his country from
his personal motives of action,

^xi., 35

Poland: Her government, xi., 150,
309; an evil of the Polish Diet,
xii., 237

Political Economy: There is no
common measure of national
wealth, and why, xi., 163

Pompadour, Madame de, xi., 36

Post- Roads: Provision of the Con-
stitution concerning them, xi.,

T. 353

President of the United States:
Exaggeration noticed of the au-
thority vested in him by the
Constitution, xi.,3 1 1 ; the power
of filling casual vacancies in the
Senate falsel}^ ascribed to him,
xii., 173; why the power of fill-
ing, during the recess of the

Senate, vacancies in federal
offices, is confided to him, 174;
peculiar eligibility of the mode
provided for his appointment,
176 et seq.; why the office of
President will seldom fall to the
lot of any man not qualified in
any degree to fill it, 180; his
constitution compared with
that of the King of Great Brit-
ain and with that of the gover-
nor of New York, 182 ; his quali-
fied negative on bills, 184 et seq. ;
a shield to the Executive, 222;
an additional security against
the enacting of improper laws,
223; the power likely to be ex-
ercised only with great caution,
224; practice in Great Britain,
224; cases for which, chiefly, it
was designed, 225 ; where vested
by the constitution of New
York, 227; refutation of the
doctrine that a vigorous Execu-
tive is inconsistent with the
genius of a republican govern-
ment, 193 ; the unity of the Ex-
ecutive " defended, 194; objec-
tions to a plural Executive, 195,
objections to an executive coun-
cil, 195, 205; the responsibility
of the President necessary, 203 ;
the term of four years for his
office defended, 209 ^^ seq.; his
re-eligibility defended, 212 et
seq.; danger of instability in the
system of administration, 215;
danger, particularly, from fre-
quent periodical changes of
subordinate officers, 216; fal-
lacy of the advantages expected
to arise from ineligibility for re-
election, 217; the provision in
the Constitution for the com-
pensation of the President, 219;
his power as commander-in-
chief of the army and navy,
228; his power of requiring the
opinions in writing of the heads
of the executive departments,
228; his power of pardoning,
229; answer to the objection
against his having the sole
power of pardon in cases of
treason, 229; his power in rela-
tion to treaties, 2^2 et seq.; his

Index to the Federalist
President of the United States
(Continued)
power in regard to the appoint-
ment of federal officers, 239;
less apt than a numerous as-
sembly of men to consult per-
sonal or party feelings in ap-
pointments, 241; the co-opera-
tion of the Senate, a check on a
spirit of favoritism in the Presi-
dent, 244; his power in regard
to the removal of officers, 248;
the constitution of the Presi-
dent combines the requisites to
public safety, 253

Press: The liberty of the, xii., 326 ;
tax on newspapers in Great
Britain, 327 note

Public Acts: Records, etc., provi-
sion of the Constitution con-
cerning them, xi., 353

Public Debt : Would be a cause of
collision between the separate
States or Confederacies, xi., 48;
obligation of the federal gov-
ernment concerning public
debts, prior to the adoption of
the Constitution, 363

Public Lands : A fruitful soiu-ce of
controversy, xi., 43, 45

Removals of federal officers {see
President)

Representation: The principle of
it, said to be an invention of
modem Europe, xi., 102; xii.,
52, 139; idea of an actual repre-
sentation of all classes of the
people by persons of each class
visionary, xi., 270; distinction
between the principle of repre-
sentation among the ancients,
and in the United States, xii.,
Republic: Defined, xi., 74 {see
Confederate Republic) ; its ad-
vantages, 144 et seq.; error of
the opinion that it is unsuitable
to a large district of country,
loi ; natural limits of one, 103;
one of its weak sides, the inlets
which it affords to foreign cor-
ruption, 173; defined or de-
scribed, 308; inapplicability of
the title to certain governments
which have received it, 308;

obligation of the federal govern-
ment to guarantee to every
State a republican form of gov-
ernment, 358

Rhode Island: Provision in her
constitution, concerning elec-
tions, xii., 58; number of repre-
sentatives in the more numer-
ous branch of her legislature,
74; iniquitous measures of, 135

Rome: Senate of, xii., 138; trib-
unes of, 144; evils arising from
her having plural consuls and
tribunes, 195, 237

Romulus, xi., 296

Rutherford, Dr. Thomas, cited,
xii., 331, note

Senate {see Elections, Judici-
ary) : Will generally be com-
posed with peculiar care and
judgment, and why, xi., 212;
its constitution, xii., 125 ct seq.;
qualifications of senators, 125;
appointment of senators by the
State legislatures, 126; equality
of representations in the Sen-
ate, 126; number of senators
and duration of their appoint-
ment, 128; its power in regard
to making treaties, 146, 149;
provision for the biennial suc-
cession of one third of new sena-
tors, 148; viewed as a court of
impeachment, 154; the objec-
tion which would substitute
the proportion of two thirds of
all the members composing the
Senate, to that of two thirds of
the members present consid-
ered, 238; its co-operation with
the President in appointments,
a check on favoritism, 240 et
seq.; answer to the objection
that the President, by the in-

- fluence of the power of nomina-
tion, may secure the complais-
ance of the Senate to his views,
245, 246; its consent would be
necessary to displace as well as
to appoint officers, 246

Servius Tullius, xi., 296

Shays Rebellion, xi., 37

Ship-Building: The wood of the
Southern States preferable for
It, xi., 85
Index to the Federalist

Slaves: The importation of them
after the year 1808 prohibited,
xi., 346 ; possess the mixed char-
acter of persons and property,
xii., 67; defence of the provi-
sion of the Constitution com-
bining them with free citizens
as a ratio of taxation, 6'j et seq.

Socrates, xii., 75

Solon, xi., 296

South Carolina: Provision in her
constitution, concerning the
separation of the legislative,
executive, and judiciary powers,
xii., 22; provision concerning
elections, 58; number of repre-
sentatives in the more numer-
ous branch of her legislature,
74; provision concerning im-
peachments, 163, note

Sparta: Her Senate, xii., 138; her
Ephori, 140, 144

Standing Armies (see Constitu-
tion) : One advantage of them
in Europe, xi., 52; would be an
inevitable result of the dissolu-
tion of the Confederacy, 54;
their fatal effects on liberty, 53
(see p. 332) ; why they did not
spring up in the Grecian repub-
lics, 55 ; nor to any considerable
extent in Great Britain, 57,
334; wisdom of the provision of
the federal Constitution in this
particular, 188, 194, 207; why
it is better for an army to be in
the hands of the federal gov-
ernment than of the State gov-
ernments, 195, 196; silence in
regard to them in the constitu-
tions of tall the States except two,
189, 200, 203 ; provision concern-
ing them, in the English Bill of
Rights framed at the Revolution
in 1688, 204; highest proportion
of a standing army to the popu-
lation of a country, xii., 10

States (see Constitution, Tax-
ation, Union) : Advantages of
an unrestrained intercoiu"se be-
tween them, xi., 87; the con-
sequences of the doctrine that
the interposition of the States
ought to be required to give
effect to a measure of the
Union, 118, 125; easier for the

State government to encroach
on the national government
than for the latter to encroach
on the former, 130, 244; xii., 6;
the State governments will in
all possible contingencies afford
complete security against all
invasions of public liberty by
the national authority, xi., 217,
xii., 8, 23 ; power of Congress to
admit new States into the
Union, xi., 357; obligation of
Congress to guarantee a repub-
lican form of government to
every State, 358 et seq.; provi-
sion of the Constitution, con-
cerning its ratification by nine
States, 365; why the State
magistracy should be bound to
support the federal Constitu-
tion, 377 ; discussion of the sup-
posed danger from the powers
of the Union to the State gov-
ernments, 378 et seq.; examina-
tion of the comparative means
of influence of the federal and
State governments, 384; xii., 3;
provisions in the constitutions
of the several States, concern-
ing the separation of the legis-
lative, executive, and judiciary
powers, 18 et seq., 24; provi-
sions, etc., concerning elections,
54, 103; provisions, etc., con-
cerning the size of electoral dis-
tricts, 73; as fair to presume
abuses of power by the State
governments as by the federal
government, 94; "portions of
sovereignty remaining in the
individual States," recognized
by the Constitution, 127; pro-
visions of the constitutions of
the several States concerning
impeachments, 163, note; New
York and New Jersey the only
States which have entrusted
the executive authority wholly
to single men, 195; difference
between the limits of the jury
trial in the different States, 308

Sweden: Corruption the cause of
the sudden despotism of Gusta-
vus III., xi., 176

Swiss Cantons : Their government,
xi., 150, 360

Index to the Federalist
Taxes: Indirect taxes the most
expedient source of revenue in
the United States, xi., 91, 165;
suggestion of a tax on ardent
spirits, 95; taxation, 231 et seq.;
incompetency of the Turkish
sovereign to impose a new tax,
232 ; intention and practical de-
fects of the old Confederation
in regard to taxation, 232; dis-
tinction between internal and
external taxes, 234; inadequacy
of requisitions on the States,
235; advantages of vesting the
power of taxation in the federal
government, as it regards bor-
rowing, 237; positions mani-
festing the necessity of so vest-
ing the power, 240; objections,
242 ; danger of so vesting the
power denied, 245 ; except as to
imports and exports, the United
States and the several States
have concurrent powers of tax-
ation, 247; no repugnancy be-
tween those concurrent powers,
249; the necessity of them, 250
et seq.; dangers of restricting
the federal power to laying
duties on imports, 266; effect of
exorbitant duties, 266; answer
to objections to the power of
internal taxation in the federal
government, derived from the
alleged want of a sufficient
knowledge of local circum-
stances, and from a supposed
interference between the rev-
enue laws of the Union and
those of the particular States,
276; suggestion of double taxa-
tion answered, 282 ; evils of poll
taxes admitted, but the pro-
priety of vesting in the federal
government the power of im-
posing them asserted, 283 ; pro-
vision of the Constitution, con-
cerning taxation, 371

Theseus, xi., 296

Titles of Nobility: The prohibi-
tion of them the comer- stone of
republican government, xi., 370

Treason : Power under the Consti-
tution, concerning it, xi., 356;
why the power of pardoning in
cases of treason is properly

vested in the President solely,
xii. 229, 230

Treaties ; Power under the Consti-
tution, concerning them, xi.,
367; why they ought to be the
supreme law of the land, xii.,
149; power of the President in
regard to them, 149, 232, 238;
why the House of Representa-
tives ought to have no power
in forming them, 236; why two
thirds of the senators present
are preferable to two thirds of
the whole Senate as a co-or-
dinate power with the Presi-
dent, in regard to treaties, 237

Tullus Hostilius, xi., 296

Union {see Confederacies, Con-
stitution) : Its importance, xi.,
8; its capacity to call into ser-
vice the best talents of the
country, 1 2 ; a bulwark against
foreign force and influence, its
capacity to prevent wars, 16,
22, 28; a safeguard against do-
mestic insurrections and wars,
34, .51. 59, 79; a safeguard
against standing armies as con-
sequent on domestic insurrec-
tions and wars, 49, 56; its util-
ity in respect to commerce and
a navy, 79, 88 ; its utility in re-
spect to revenue, 89, 100; prin-
cipal purposes to be answered
by it, 180; if founded on con-
siderations of public happiness,
the sovereignty of the States, if
irreconcilable to it, should be
sacrificed, 376
United Netherlands, xi., 152
United States: Their actual di-
mensions, xi., 103

Venice: Not a republic, xi., 309

Vice-President, xii., 181

Virginia (see Jefferson, Thomas):
Provision in her constitution,
concerning the separation of
the legislative, executive, and
judiciary powers, xii., 22, 27;
was the colony which stood
first in resisting the parliament- ■
ary usurpations of Great Brit^
ain, 55 ; was the first to espouse
by a public act the resolution of
Index to the Federalist

Virginia (Continued)

independence, 55; elections un-
der her former government, 55

West India Trade, xi., 81
Wolsey, Cardinal, xi., 36
Wyoming, Lands of: Dispute be-

tween Connecticut and Penn-
sylvania concerning them, xi.,
Yates, Abraham, xii., 227
Zaleucus, xi., 296

University of
Connecticut

Libraries
